



                ALICE'S ADVENTURES IN WONDERLAND

                          Lewis Carroll

               THE MILLENNIUM FULCRUM EDITION 2.9




                            CHAPTER I

                      Down the Rabbit-Hole


  Alice was beginning to get very tired of sitting by her sister
on the bank, and of having nothing to do:  once or twice she had
peeped into the book her sister was reading, but it had no
pictures or conversations in it, `and what is the use of a book,'
thought Alice `without pictures or conversation?'

  So she was considering in her own mind (as well as she could,
for the hot day made her feel very sleepy and stupid), whether
the pleasure of making a daisy-chain would be worth the trouble
of getting up and picking the daisies, when suddenly a White
Rabbit with pink eyes ran close by her.

  There was nothing so VERY remarkable in that; nor did Alice
think it so VERY much out of the way to hear the Rabbit say to
itself, `Oh dear!  Oh dear!  I shall be late!'  (when she thought
it over afterwards, it occurred to her that she ought to have
wondered at this, but at the time it all seemed quite natural);
but when the Rabbit actually TOOK A WATCH OUT OF ITS WAISTCOAT-
POCKET, and looked at it, and then hurried on, Alice started to
her feet, for it flashed across her mind that she had never
before seen a rabbit with either a waistcoat-pocket, or a watch to
take out of it, and burning with curiosity, she ran across the
field after it, and fortunately was just in time to see it pop
down a large rabbit-hole under the hedge.

  In another moment down went Alice after it, never once
considering how in the world she was to get out again.

  The rabbit-hole went straight on like a tunnel for some way,
and then dipped suddenly down, so suddenly that Alice had not a
moment to think about stopping herself before she found herself
falling down a very deep well.

  Either the well was very deep, or she fell very slowly, for she
had plenty of time as she went down to look about her and to
wonder what was going to happen next.  First, she tried to look
down and make out what she was coming to, but it was too dark to
see anything; then she looked at the sides of the well, and
noticed that they were filled with cupboards and book-shelves;
here and there she saw maps and pictures hung upon pegs.  She
took down a jar from one of the shelves as she passed; it was
labelled `ORANGE MARMALADE', but to her great disappointment it
was empty:  she did not like to drop the jar for fear of killing
somebody, so managed to put it into one of the cupboards as she
fell past it.

  `Well!' thought Alice to herself, `after such a fall as this, I
shall think nothing of tumbling down stairs!  How brave they'll
all think me at home!  Why, I wouldn't say anything about it,
even if I fell off the top of the house!' (Which was very likely
true.)

  Down, down, down.  Would the fall NEVER come to an end!  `I
wonder how many miles I've fallen by this time?' she said aloud.
`I must be getting somewhere near the centre of the earth.  Let
me see:  that would be four thousand miles down, I think--' (for,
you see, Alice had learnt several things of this sort in her
lessons in the schoolroom, and though this was not a VERY good
opportunity for showing off her knowledge, as there was no one to
listen to her, still it was good practice to say it over) `--yes,
that's about the right distance--but then I wonder what Latitude
or Longitude I've got to?'  (Alice had no idea what Latitude was,
or Longitude either, but thought they were nice grand words to
say.)

  Presently she began again.  `I wonder if I shall fall right
THROUGH the earth!  How funny it'll seem to come out among the
people that walk with their heads downward!  The Antipathies, I
think--' (she was rather glad there WAS no one listening, this
time, as it didn't sound at all the right word) `--but I shall
have to ask them what the name of the country is, you know.
Please, Ma'am, is this New Zealand or Australia?' (and she tried
to curtsey as she spoke--fancy CURTSEYING as you're falling
through the air!  Do you think you could manage it?)  `And what
an ignorant little girl she'll think me for asking!  No, it'll
never do to ask:  perhaps I shall see it written up somewhere.'

  Down, down, down.  There was nothing else to do, so Alice soon
began talking again.  `Dinah'll miss me very much to-night, I
should think!'  (Dinah was the cat.)  `I hope they'll remember
her saucer of milk at tea-time.  Dinah my dear!  I wish you were
down here with me!  There are no mice in the air, I'm afraid, but
you might catch a bat, and that's very like a mouse, you know.
But do cats eat bats, I wonder?'  And here Alice began to get
rather sleepy, and went on saying to herself, in a dreamy sort of
way, `Do cats eat bats?  Do cats eat bats?' and sometimes, `Do
bats eat cats?' for, you see, as she couldn't answer either
question, it didn't much matter which way she put it.  She felt
that she was dozing off, and had just begun to dream that she
was walking hand in hand with Dinah, and saying to her very
earnestly, `Now, Dinah, tell me the truth:  did you ever eat a
bat?' when suddenly, thump! thump! down she came upon a heap of
sticks and dry leaves, and the fall was over.

  Alice was not a bit hurt, and she jumped up on to her feet in a
moment:  she looked up, but it was all dark overhead; before her
was another long passage, and the White Rabbit was still in
sight, hurrying down it.  There was not a moment to be lost:
away went Alice like the wind, and was just in time to hear it
say, as it turned a corner, `Oh my ears and whiskers, how late
it's getting!'  She was close behind it when she turned the
corner, but the Rabbit was no longer to be seen:  she found
herself in a long, low hall, which was lit up by a row of lamps
hanging from the roof.

  There were doors all round the hall, but they were all locked;
and when Alice had been all the way down one side and up the
other, trying every door, she walked sadly down the middle,
wondering how she was ever to get out again.

  Suddenly she came upon a little three-legged table, all made of
solid glass; there was nothing on it except a tiny golden key,
and Alice's first thought was that it might belong to one of the
doors of the hall; but, alas! either the locks were too large, or
the key was too small, but at any rate it would not open any of
them.  However, on the second time round, she came upon a low
curtain she had not noticed before, and behind it was a little
door about fifteen inches high:  she tried the little golden key
in the lock, and to her great delight it fitted!

  Alice opened the door and found that it led into a small
passage, not much larger than a rat-hole:  she knelt down and
looked along the passage into the loveliest garden you ever saw.
How she longed to get out of that dark hall, and wander about
among those beds of bright flowers and those cool fountains, but
she could not even get her head though the doorway; `and even if
my head would go through,' thought poor Alice, `it would be of
very little use without my shoulders.  Oh, how I wish
I could shut up like a telescope!  I think I could, if I only
know how to begin.'  For, you see, so many out-of-the-way things
had happened lately, that Alice had begun to think that very few
things indeed were really impossible.

  There seemed to be no use in waiting by the little door, so she
went back to the table, half hoping she might find another key on
it, or at any rate a book of rules for shutting people up like
telescopes:  this time she found a little bottle on it, (`which
certainly was not here before,' said Alice,) and round the neck
of the bottle was a paper label, with the words `DRINK ME'
beautifully printed on it in large letters.

  It was all very well to say `Drink me,' but the wise little
Alice was not going to do THAT in a hurry.  `No, I'll look
first,' she said, `and see whether it's marked "poison" or not';
for she had read several nice little histories about children who
had got burnt, and eaten up by wild beasts and other unpleasant
things, all because they WOULD not remember the simple rules
their friends had taught them:  such as, that a red-hot poker
will burn you if you hold it too long; and that if you cut your
finger VERY deeply with a knife, it usually bleeds; and she had
never forgotten that, if you drink much from a bottle marked
`poison,' it is almost certain to disagree with you, sooner or
later.

  However, this bottle was NOT marked `poison,' so Alice ventured
to taste it, and finding it very nice, (it had, in fact, a sort
of mixed flavour of cherry-tart, custard, pine-apple, roast
turkey, toffee, and hot buttered toast,) she very soon finished
it off.

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

         *       *       *       *       *       *

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

  `What a curious feeling!' said Alice; `I must be shutting up
like a telescope.'

  And so it was indeed:  she was now only ten inches high, and
her face brightened up at the thought that she was now the right
size for going though the little door into that lovely garden.
First, however, she waited for a few minutes to see if she was
going to shrink any further:  she felt a little nervous about
this; `for it might end, you know,' said Alice to herself, `in my
going out altogether, like a candle.  I wonder what I should be
like then?'  And she tried to fancy what the flame of a candle is
like after the candle is blown out, for she could not remember
ever having seen such a thing.

  After a while, finding that nothing more happened, she decided
on going into the garden at once; but, alas for poor Alice! when
she got to the door, she found he had forgotten the little golden
key, and when she went back to the table for it, she found she
could not possibly reach it:  she could see it quite plainly
through the glass, and she tried her best to climb up one of the
legs of the table, but it was too slippery; and when she had
tired herself out with trying, the poor little thing sat down and
cried.

  `Come, there's no use in crying like that!' said Alice to
herself, rather sharply; `I advise you to leave off this minute!'
She generally gave herself very good advice, (though she very
seldom followed it), and sometimes she scolded herself so
severely as to bring tears into her eyes; and once she remembered
trying to box her own ears for having cheated herself in a game
of croquet she was playing against herself, for this curious
child was very fond of pretending to be two people.  `But it's no
use now,' thought poor Alice, `to pretend to be two people!  Why,
there's hardly enough of me left to make ONE respectable
person!'

  Soon her eye fell on a little glass box that was lying under
the table:  she opened it, and found in it a very small cake, on
which the words `EAT ME' were beautifully marked in currants.
`Well, I'll eat it,' said Alice, `and if it makes me grow larger,
I can reach the key; and if it makes me grow smaller, I can creep
under the door; so either way I'll get into the garden, and I
don't care which happens!'

  She ate a little bit, and said anxiously to herself, `Which
way?  Which way?', holding her hand on the top of her head to
feel which way it was growing, and she was quite surprised to
find that she remained the same size:  to be sure, this generally
happens when one eats cake, but Alice had got so much into the
way of expecting nothing but out-of-the-way things to happen,
that it seemed quite dull and stupid for life to go on in the
common way.

  So she set to work, and very soon finished off the cake.

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

         *       *       *       *       *       *

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *




                           CHAPTER II

                        The Pool of Tears


  `Curiouser and curiouser!' cried Alice (she was so much
surprised, that for the moment she quite forgot how to speak good
English); `now I'm opening out like the largest telescope that
ever was!  Good-bye, feet!' (for when she looked down at her
feet, they seemed to be almost out of sight, they were getting so
far off).  `Oh, my poor little feet, I wonder who will put on
your shoes and stockings for you now, dears?  I'm sure _I_ shan't
be able!  I shall be a great deal too far off to trouble myself
about you:  you must manage the best way you can; --but I must be
kind to them,' thought Alice, `or perhaps they won't walk the
way I want to go!  Let me see:  I'll give them a new pair of
boots every Christmas.'

  And she went on planning to herself how she would manage it.
`They must go by the carrier,' she thought; `and how funny it'll
seem, sending presents to one's own feet!  And how odd the
directions will look!

            ALICE'S RIGHT FOOT, ESQ.
                HEARTHRUG,
                    NEAR THE FENDER,
                        (WITH ALICE'S LOVE).

Oh dear, what nonsense I'm talking!'

  Just then her head struck against the roof of the hall:  in
fact she was now more than nine feet high, and she at once took
up the little golden key and hurried off to the garden door.

  Poor Alice!  It was as much as she could do, lying down on one
side, to look through into the garden with one eye; but to get
through was more hopeless than ever:  she sat down and began to
cry again.

  `You ought to be ashamed of yourself,' said Alice, `a great
girl like you,' (she might well say this), `to go on crying in
this way!  Stop this moment, I tell you!'  But she went on all
the same, shedding gallons of tears, until there was a large pool
all round her, about four inches deep and reaching half down the
hall.

  After a time she heard a little pattering of feet in the
distance, and she hastily dried her eyes to see what was coming.
It was the White Rabbit returning, splendidly dressed, with a
pair of white kid gloves in one hand and a large fan in the
other:  he came trotting along in a great hurry, muttering to
himself as he came, `Oh! the Duchess, the Duchess! Oh! won't she
be savage if I've kept her waiting!'  Alice felt so desperate
that she was ready to ask help of any one; so, when the Rabbit
came near her, she began, in a low, timid voice, `If you please,
sir--'  The Rabbit started violently, dropped the white kid
gloves and the fan, and skurried away into the darkness as hard
as he could go.

  Alice took up the fan and gloves, and, as the hall was very
hot, she kept fanning herself all the time she went on talking:
`Dear, dear!  How queer everything is to-day!  And yesterday
things went on just as usual.  I wonder if I've been changed in
the night?  Let me think:  was I the same when I got up this
morning?  I almost think I can remember feeling a little
different.  But if I'm not the same, the next question is, Who in
the world am I?  Ah, THAT'S the great puzzle!'  And she began
thinking over all the children she knew that were of the same age
as herself, to see if she could have been changed for any of
them.

  `I'm sure I'm not Ada,' she said, `for her hair goes in such
long ringlets, and mine doesn't go in ringlets at all; and I'm
sure I can't be Mabel, for I know all sorts of things, and she,
oh! she knows such a very little!  Besides, SHE'S she, and I'm I,
and--oh dear, how puzzling it all is!  I'll try if I know all the
things I used to know.  Let me see:  four times five is twelve,
and four times six is thirteen, and four times seven is--oh dear!
I shall never get to twenty at that rate!  However, the
Multiplication Table doesn't signify:  let's try Geography.
London is the capital of Paris, and Paris is the capital of Rome,
and Rome--no, THAT'S all wrong, I'm certain!  I must have been
changed for Mabel!  I'll try and say "How doth the little--"'
and she crossed her hands on her lap as if she were saying lessons,
and began to repeat it, but her voice sounded hoarse and
strange, and the words did not come the same as they used to do:--

            `How doth the little crocodile
              Improve his shining tail,
            And pour the waters of the Nile
              On every golden scale!

            `How cheerfully he seems to grin,
              How neatly spread his claws,
            And welcome little fishes in
              With gently smiling jaws!'

  `I'm sure those are not the right words,' said poor Alice, and
her eyes filled with tears again as she went on, `I must be Mabel
after all, and I shall have to go and live in that poky little
house, and have next to no toys to play with, and oh! ever so
many lessons to learn!  No, I've made up my mind about it; if I'm
Mabel, I'll stay down here!  It'll be no use their putting their
heads down and saying "Come up again, dear!"  I shall only look
up and say "Who am I then?  Tell me that first, and then, if I
like being that person, I'll come up:  if not, I'll stay down
here till I'm somebody else"--but, oh dear!' cried Alice, with a
sudden burst of tears, `I do wish they WOULD put their heads
down!  I am so VERY tired of being all alone here!'

  As she said this she looked down at her hands, and was
surprised to see that she had put on one of the Rabbit's little
white kid gloves while she was talking.  `How CAN I have done
that?' she thought.  `I must be growing small again.'  She got up
and went to the table to measure herself by it, and found that,
as nearly as she could guess, she was now about two feet high,
and was going on shrinking rapidly:  she soon found out that the
cause of this was the fan she was holding, and she dropped it
hastily, just in time to avoid shrinking away altogether.

`That WAS a narrow escape!' said Alice, a good deal frightened at
the sudden change, but very glad to find herself still in
existence; `and now for the garden!' and she ran with all speed
back to the little door:  but, alas! the little door was shut
again, and the little golden key was lying on the glass table as
before, `and things are worse than ever,' thought the poor child,
`for I never was so small as this before, never!  And I declare
it's too bad, that it is!'

  As she said these words her foot slipped, and in another
moment, splash! she was up to her chin in salt water.  He first
idea was that she had somehow fallen into the sea, `and in that
case I can go back by railway,' she said to herself.  (Alice had
been to the seaside once in her life, and had come to the general
conclusion, that wherever you go to on the English coast you find
a number of bathing machines in the sea, some children digging in
the sand with wooden spades, then a row of lodging houses, and
behind them a railway station.)  However, she soon made out that
she was in the pool of tears which she had wept when she was nine
feet high.

  `I wish I hadn't cried so much!' said Alice, as she swam about,
trying to find her way out.  `I shall be punished for it now, I
suppose, by being drowned in my own tears!  That WILL be a queer
thing, to be sure!  However, everything is queer to-day.'

  Just then she heard something splashing about in the pool a
little way off, and she swam nearer to make out what it was:  at
first she thought it must be a walrus or hippopotamus, but then
she remembered how small she was now, and she soon made out that
it was only a mouse that had slipped in like herself.

  `Would it be of any use, now,' thought Alice, `to speak to this
mouse?  Everything is so out-of-the-way down here, that I should
think very likely it can talk:  at any rate, there's no harm in
trying.'  So she began:  `O Mouse, do you know the way out of
this pool?  I am very tired of swimming about here, O Mouse!'
(Alice thought this must be the right way of speaking to a mouse:
she had never done such a thing before, but she remembered having
seen in her brother's Latin Grammar, `A mouse--of a mouse--to a
mouse--a mouse--O mouse!'  The Mouse looked at her rather
inquisitively, and seemed to her to wink with one of its little
eyes, but it said nothing.

  `Perhaps it doesn't understand English,' thought Alice; `I
daresay it's a French mouse, come over with William the
Conqueror.'  (For, with all her knowledge of history, Alice had
no very clear notion how long ago anything had happened.)  So she
began again:  `Ou est ma chatte?' which was the first sentence in
her French lesson-book.  The Mouse gave a sudden leap out of the
water, and seemed to quiver all over with fright.  `Oh, I beg
your pardon!' cried Alice hastily, afraid that she had hurt the
poor animal's feelings.  `I quite forgot you didn't like cats.'

  `Not like cats!' cried the Mouse, in a shrill, passionate
voice.  `Would YOU like cats if you were me?'

  `Well, perhaps not,' said Alice in a soothing tone:  `don't be
angry about it.  And yet I wish I could show you our cat Dinah:
I think you'd take a fancy to cats if you could only see her.
She is such a dear quiet thing,' Alice went on, half to herself,
as she swam lazily about in the pool, `and she sits purring so
nicely by the fire, licking her paws and washing her face--and
she is such a nice soft thing to nurse--and she's such a capital
one for catching mice--oh, I beg your pardon!' cried Alice again,
for this time the Mouse was bristling all over, and she felt
certain it must be really offended.  `We won't talk about her any
more if you'd rather not.'

  `We indeed!' cried the Mouse, who was trembling down to the end
of his tail.  `As if I would talk on such a subject!  Our family
always HATED cats:  nasty, low, vulgar things!  Don't let me hear
the name again!'

  `I won't indeed!' said Alice, in a great hurry to change the
subject of conversation.  `Are you--are you fond--of--of dogs?'
The Mouse did not answer, so Alice went on eagerly:  `There is
such a nice little dog near our house I should like to show you!
A little bright-eyed terrier, you know, with oh, such long curly
brown hair!  And it'll fetch things when you throw them, and
it'll sit up and beg for its dinner, and all sorts of things--I
can't remember half of them--and it belongs to a farmer, you
know, and he says it's so useful, it's worth a hundred pounds!
He says it kills all the rats and--oh dear!' cried Alice in a
sorrowful tone, `I'm afraid I've offended it again!'  For the
Mouse was swimming away from her as hard as it could go, and
making quite a commotion in the pool as it went.

  So she called softly after it, `Mouse dear!  Do come back
again, and we won't talk about cats or dogs either, if you don't
like them!'  When the Mouse heard this, it turned round and swam
slowly back to her:  its face was quite pale (with passion, Alice
thought), and it said in a low trembling voice, `Let us get to
the shore, and then I'll tell you my history, and you'll
understand why it is I hate cats and dogs.'

  It was high time to go, for the pool was getting quite crowded
with the birds and animals that had fallen into it:  there were a
Duck and a Dodo, a Lory and an Eaglet, and several other curious
creatures.  Alice led the way, and the whole party swam to the
shore.



                           CHAPTER III

                  A Caucus-Race and a Long Tale


  They were indeed a queer-looking party that assembled on the
bank--the birds with draggled feathers, the animals with their
fur clinging close to them, and all dripping wet, cross, and
uncomfortable.

  The first question of course was, how to get dry again:  they
had a consultation about this, and after a few minutes it seemed
quite natural to Alice to find herself talking familiarly with
them, as if she had known them all her life.  Indeed, she had
quite a long argument with the Lory, who at last turned sulky,
and would only say, `I am older than you, and must know better';
and this Alice would not allow without knowing how old it was,
and, as the Lory positively refused to tell its age, there was no
more to be said.

  At last the Mouse, who seemed to be a person of authority among
them, called out, `Sit down, all of you, and listen to me!  I'LL
soon make you dry enough!'  They all sat down at once, in a large
ring, with the Mouse in the middle.  Alice kept her eyes
anxiously fixed on it, for she felt sure she would catch a bad
cold if she did not get dry very soon.

  `Ahem!' said the Mouse with an important air, `are you all ready?
This is the driest thing I know.  Silence all round, if you please!
"William the Conqueror, whose cause was favoured by the pope, was
soon submitted to by the English, who wanted leaders, and had been
of late much accustomed to usurpation and conquest.  Edwin and
Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria--"'

  `Ugh!' said the Lory, with a shiver.

  `I beg your pardon!' said the Mouse, frowning, but very
politely:  `Did you speak?'

  `Not I!' said the Lory hastily.

  `I thought you did,' said the Mouse.  `--I proceed.  "Edwin and
Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria, declared for him:
and even Stigand, the patriotic archbishop of Canterbury, found
it advisable--"'

  `Found WHAT?' said the Duck.

  `Found IT,' the Mouse replied rather crossly:  `of course you
know what "it" means.'

  `I know what "it" means well enough, when I find a thing,' said
the Duck:  `it's generally a frog or a worm.  The question is,
what did the archbishop find?'

  The Mouse did not notice this question, but hurriedly went on,
`"--found it advisable to go with Edgar Atheling to meet William
and offer him the crown.  William's conduct at first was
moderate.  But the insolence of his Normans--"  How are you
getting on now, my dear?' it continued, turning to Alice as it
spoke.

  `As wet as ever,' said Alice in a melancholy tone:  `it doesn't
seem to dry me at all.'

  `In that case,' said the Dodo solemnly, rising to its feet, `I
move that the meeting adjourn, for the immediate adoption of more
energetic remedies--'

  `Speak English!' said the Eaglet.  `I don't know the meaning of
half those long words, and, what's more, I don't believe you do
either!'  And the Eaglet bent down its head to hide a smile:
some of the other birds tittered audibly.

  `What I was going to say,' said the Dodo in an offended tone,
`was, that the best thing to get us dry would be a Caucus-race.'

  `What IS a Caucus-race?' said Alice; not that she wanted much
to know, but the Dodo had paused as if it thought that SOMEBODY
ought to speak, and no one else seemed inclined to say anything.

  `Why,' said the Dodo, `the best way to explain it is to do it.'
(And, as you might like to try the thing yourself, some winter
day, I will tell you how the Dodo managed it.)

  First it marked out a race-course, in a sort of circle, (`the
exact shape doesn't matter,' it said,) and then all the party
were placed along the course, here and there.  There was no `One,
two, three, and away,' but they began running when they liked,
and left off when they liked, so that it was not easy to know
when the race was over.  However, when they had been running half
an hour or so, and were quite dry again, the Dodo suddenly called
out `The race is over!' and they all crowded round it, panting,
and asking, `But who has won?'

  This question the Dodo could not answer without a great deal of
thought, and it sat for a long time with one finger pressed upon
its forehead (the position in which you usually see Shakespeare,
in the pictures of him), while the rest waited in silence.  At
last the Dodo said, `EVERYBODY has won, and all must have
prizes.'

  `But who is to give the prizes?' quite a chorus of voices
asked.

  `Why, SHE, of course,' said the Dodo, pointing to Alice with
one finger; and the whole party at once crowded round her,
calling out in a confused way, `Prizes! Prizes!'

  Alice had no idea what to do, and in despair she put her hand
in her pocket, and pulled out a box of comfits, (luckily the salt
water had not got into it), and handed them round as prizes.
There was exactly one a-piece all round.

  `But she must have a prize herself, you know,' said the Mouse.

  `Of course,' the Dodo replied very gravely.  `What else have
you got in your pocket?' he went on, turning to Alice.

  `Only a thimble,' said Alice sadly.

  `Hand it over here,' said the Dodo.

  Then they all crowded round her once more, while the Dodo
solemnly presented the thimble, saying `We beg your acceptance of
this elegant thimble'; and, when it had finished this short
speech, they all cheered.

  Alice thought the whole thing very absurd, but they all looked
so grave that she did not dare to laugh; and, as she could not
think of anything to say, she simply bowed, and took the thimble,
looking as solemn as she could.

  The next thing was to eat the comfits:  this caused some noise
and confusion, as the large birds complained that they could not
taste theirs, and the small ones choked and had to be patted on
the back.  However, it was over at last, and they sat down again
in a ring, and begged the Mouse to tell them something more.

  `You promised to tell me your history, you know,' said Alice,
`and why it is you hate--C and D,' she added in a whisper, half
afraid that it would be offended again.

  `Mine is a long and a sad tale!' said the Mouse, turning to
Alice, and sighing.

  `It IS a long tail, certainly,' said Alice, looking down with
wonder at the Mouse's tail; `but why do you call it sad?'  And
she kept on puzzling about it while the Mouse was speaking, so
that her idea of the tale was something like this:--

                    `Fury said to a
                   mouse, That he
                 met in the
               house,
            "Let us
              both go to
                law:  I will
                  prosecute
                    YOU.  --Come,
                       I'll take no
                        denial; We
                     must have a
                 trial:  For
              really this
           morning I've
          nothing
         to do."
           Said the
             mouse to the
               cur, "Such
                 a trial,
                   dear Sir,
                         With
                     no jury
                  or judge,
                would be
              wasting
             our
              breath."
               "I'll be
                 judge, I'll
                   be jury,"
                         Said
                    cunning
                      old Fury:
                     "I'll
                      try the
                         whole
                          cause,
                             and
                        condemn
                       you
                      to
                       death."'


  `You are not attending!' said the Mouse to Alice severely.
`What are you thinking of?'

  `I beg your pardon,' said Alice very humbly:  `you had got to
the fifth bend, I think?'

  `I had NOT!' cried the Mouse, sharply and very angrily.

  `A knot!' said Alice, always ready to make herself useful, and
looking anxiously about her.  `Oh, do let me help to undo it!'

  `I shall do nothing of the sort,' said the Mouse, getting up
and walking away.  `You insult me by talking such nonsense!'

  `I didn't mean it!' pleaded poor Alice.  `But you're so easily
offended, you know!'

  The Mouse only growled in reply.

  `Please come back and finish your story!' Alice called after
it; and the others all joined in chorus, `Yes, please do!' but
the Mouse only shook its head impatiently, and walked a little
quicker.

  `What a pity it wouldn't stay!' sighed the Lory, as soon as it
was quite out of sight; and an old Crab took the opportunity of
saying to her daughter `Ah, my dear!  Let this be a lesson to you
never to lose YOUR temper!'  `Hold your tongue, Ma!' said the
young Crab, a little snappishly.  `You're enough to try the
patience of an oyster!'

  `I wish I had our Dinah here, I know I do!' said Alice aloud,
addressing nobody in particular.  `She'd soon fetch it back!'

  `And who is Dinah, if I might venture to ask the question?'
said the Lory.

  Alice replied eagerly, for she was always ready to talk about
her pet:  `Dinah's our cat.  And she's such a capital one for
catching mice you can't think!  And oh, I wish you could see her
after the birds!  Why, she'll eat a little bird as soon as look
at it!'

  This speech caused a remarkable sensation among the party.
Some of the birds hurried off at once:  one the old Magpie began
wrapping itself up very carefully, remarking, `I really must be
getting home; the night-air doesn't suit my throat!' and a Canary
called out in a trembling voice to its children, `Come away, my
dears!  It's high time you were all in bed!'  On various pretexts
they all moved off, and Alice was soon left alone.

  `I wish I hadn't mentioned Dinah!' she said to herself in a
melancholy tone.  `Nobody seems to like her, down here, and I'm
sure she's the best cat in the world!  Oh, my dear Dinah!  I
wonder if I shall ever see you any more!'  And here poor Alice
began to cry again, for she felt very lonely and low-spirited.
In a little while, however, she again heard a little pattering of
footsteps in the distance, and she looked up eagerly, half hoping
that the Mouse had changed his mind, and was coming back to
finish his story.



                           CHAPTER IV

                The Rabbit Sends in a Little Bill


  It was the White Rabbit, trotting slowly back again, and
looking anxiously about as it went, as if it had lost something;
and she heard it muttering to itself `The Duchess!  The Duchess!
Oh my dear paws!  Oh my fur and whiskers!  She'll get me
executed, as sure as ferrets are ferrets!  Where CAN I have
dropped them, I wonder?'  Alice guessed in a moment that it was
looking for the fan and the pair of white kid gloves, and she
very good-naturedly began hunting about for them, but they were
nowhere to be seen--everything seemed to have changed since her
swim in the pool, and the great hall, with the glass table and
the little door, had vanished completely.

  Very soon the Rabbit noticed Alice, as she went hunting about,
and called out to her in an angry tone, `Why, Mary Ann, what ARE
you doing out here?  Run home this moment, and fetch me a pair of
gloves and a fan!  Quick, now!'  And Alice was so much frightened
that she ran off at once in the direction it pointed to, without
trying to explain the mistake it had made.

  `He took me for his housemaid,' she said to herself as she ran.
`How surprised he'll be when he finds out who I am!  But I'd
better take him his fan and gloves--that is, if I can find them.'
As she said this, she came upon a neat little house, on the door
of which was a bright brass plate with the name `W. RABBIT'
engraved upon it.  She went in without knocking, and hurried
upstairs, in great fear lest she should meet the real Mary Ann,
and be turned out of the house before she had found the fan and
gloves.

  `How queer it seems,' Alice said to herself, `to be going
messages for a rabbit!  I suppose Dinah'll be sending me on
messages next!'  And she began fancying the sort of thing that
would happen:  `"Miss Alice!  Come here directly, and get ready
for your walk!" "Coming in a minute, nurse!  But I've got to see
that the mouse doesn't get out."  Only I don't think,' Alice went
on, `that they'd let Dinah stop in the house if it began ordering
people about like that!'

  By this time she had found her way into a tidy little room with
a table in the window, and on it (as she had hoped) a fan and two
or three pairs of tiny white kid gloves:  she took up the fan and
a pair of the gloves, and was just going to leave the room, when
her eye fell upon a little bottle that stood near the looking-
glass.  There was no label this time with the words `DRINK ME,'
but nevertheless she uncorked it and put it to her lips.  `I know
SOMETHING interesting is sure to happen,' she said to herself,
`whenever I eat or drink anything; so I'll just see what this
bottle does.  I do hope it'll make me grow large again, for
really I'm quite tired of being such a tiny little thing!'

  It did so indeed, and much sooner than she had expected:
before she had drunk half the bottle, she found her head pressing
against the ceiling, and had to stoop to save her neck from being
broken.  She hastily put down the bottle, saying to herself
`That's quite enough--I hope I shan't grow any more--As it is, I
can't get out at the door--I do wish I hadn't drunk quite so
much!'

  Alas! it was too late to wish that!  She went on growing, and
growing, and very soon had to kneel down on the floor:  in
another minute there was not even room for this, and she tried
the effect of lying down with one elbow against the door, and the
other arm curled round her head.  Still she went on growing, and,
as a last resource, she put one arm out of the window, and one
foot up the chimney, and said to herself `Now I can do no more,
whatever happens.  What WILL become of me?'

  Luckily for Alice, the little magic bottle had now had its full
effect, and she grew no larger:  still it was very uncomfortable,
and, as there seemed to be no sort of chance of her ever getting
out of the room again, no wonder she felt unhappy.

  `It was much pleasanter at home,' thought poor Alice, `when one
wasn't always growing larger and smaller, and being ordered about
by mice and rabbits.  I almost wish I hadn't gone down that
rabbit-hole--and yet--and yet--it's rather curious, you know,
this sort of life!  I do wonder what CAN have happened to me!
When I used to read fairy-tales, I fancied that kind of thing
never happened, and now here I am in the middle of one!  There
ought to be a book written about me, that there ought!  And when
I grow up, I'll write one--but I'm grown up now,' she added in a
sorrowful tone; `at least there's no room to grow up any more
HERE.'

  `But then,' thought Alice, `shall I NEVER get any older than I
am now?  That'll be a comfort, one way--never to be an old woman-
-but then--always to have lessons to learn!  Oh, I shouldn't like
THAT!'

  `Oh, you foolish Alice!' she answered herself.  `How can you
learn lessons in here?  Why, there's hardly room for YOU, and no
room at all for any lesson-books!'

  And so she went on, taking first one side and then the other,
and making quite a conversation of it altogether; but after a few
minutes she heard a voice outside, and stopped to listen.

  `Mary Ann!  Mary Ann!' said the voice.  `Fetch me my gloves
this moment!'  Then came a little pattering of feet on the
stairs.  Alice knew it was the Rabbit coming to look for her, and
she trembled till she shook the house, quite forgetting that she
was now about a thousand times as large as the Rabbit, and had no
reason to be afraid of it.

  Presently the Rabbit came up to the door, and tried to open it;
but, as the door opened inwards, and Alice's elbow was pressed
hard against it, that attempt proved a failure.  Alice heard it
say to itself `Then I'll go round and get in at the window.'

  `THAT you won't' thought Alice, and, after waiting till she
fancied she heard the Rabbit just under the window, she suddenly
spread out her hand, and made a snatch in the air.  She did not
get hold of anything, but she heard a little shriek and a fall,
and a crash of broken glass, from which she concluded that it was
just possible it had fallen into a cucumber-frame, or something
of the sort.

  Next came an angry voice--the Rabbit's--`Pat! Pat!  Where are
you?'  And then a voice she had never heard before, `Sure then
I'm here!  Digging for apples, yer honour!'

  `Digging for apples, indeed!' said the Rabbit angrily.  `Here!
Come and help me out of THIS!'  (Sounds of more broken glass.)

  `Now tell me, Pat, what's that in the window?'

  `Sure, it's an arm, yer honour!'  (He pronounced it `arrum.')

  `An arm, you goose!   Who ever saw one that size?  Why, it
fills the whole window!'

  `Sure, it does, yer honour:  but it's an arm for all that.'

  `Well, it's got no business there, at any rate:  go and take it
away!'

  There was a long silence after this, and Alice could only hear
whispers now and then; such as, `Sure, I don't like it, yer
honour, at all, at all!'  `Do as I tell you, you coward!' and at
last she spread out her hand again, and made another snatch in
the air.  This time there were TWO little shrieks, and more
sounds of broken glass.  `What a number of cucumber-frames there
must be!' thought Alice.  `I wonder what they'll do next!  As for
pulling me out of the window, I only wish they COULD!  I'm sure I
don't want to stay in here any longer!'

  She waited for some time without hearing anything more:  at
last came a rumbling of little cartwheels, and the sound of a
good many voice all talking together:  she made out the words:
`Where's the other ladder?--Why, I hadn't to bring but one;
Bill's got the other--Bill! fetch it here, lad!--Here, put 'em up
at this corner--No, tie 'em together first--they don't reach half
high enough yet--Oh! they'll do well enough; don't be particular-
-Here, Bill! catch hold of this rope--Will the roof bear?--Mind
that loose slate--Oh, it's coming down!  Heads below!' (a loud
crash)--`Now, who did that?--It was Bill, I fancy--Who's to go
down the chimney?--Nay, I shan't! YOU do it!--That I won't,
then!--Bill's to go down--Here, Bill! the master says you're to
go down the chimney!'

  `Oh! So Bill's got to come down the chimney, has he?' said
Alice to herself.  `Shy, they seem to put everything upon Bill!
I wouldn't be in Bill's place for a good deal:  this fireplace is
narrow, to be sure; but I THINK I can kick a little!'

  She drew her foot as far down the chimney as she could, and
waited till she heard a little animal (she couldn't guess of what
sort it was) scratching and scrambling about in the chimney close
above her:  then, saying to herself `This is Bill,' she gave one
sharp kick, and waited to see what would happen next.

  The first thing she heard was a general chorus of `There goes
Bill!' then the Rabbit's voice along--`Catch him, you by the
hedge!' then silence, and then another confusion of voices--`Hold
up his head--Brandy now--Don't choke him--How was it, old fellow?
What happened to you?  Tell us all about it!'

  Last came a little feeble, squeaking voice, (`That's Bill,'
thought Alice,) `Well, I hardly know--No more, thank ye; I'm
better now--but I'm a deal too flustered to tell you--all I know
is, something comes at me like a Jack-in-the-box, and up I goes
like a sky-rocket!'

  `So you did, old fellow!' said the others.

  `We must burn the house down!' said the Rabbit's voice; and
Alice called out as loud as she could, `If you do.  I'll set
Dinah at you!'

  There was a dead silence instantly, and Alice thought to
herself, `I wonder what they WILL do next!  If they had any
sense, they'd take the roof off.'  After a minute or two, they
began moving about again, and Alice heard the Rabbit say, `A
barrowful will do, to begin with.'

  `A barrowful of WHAT?' thought Alice; but she had not long to
doubt, for the next moment a shower of little pebbles came
rattling in at the window, and some of them hit her in the face.
`I'll put a stop to this,' she said to herself, and shouted out,
`You'd better not do that again!' which produced another dead
silence.

  Alice noticed with some surprise that the pebbles were all
turning into little cakes as they lay on the floor, and a bright
idea came into her head.  `If I eat one of these cakes,' she
thought, `it's sure to make SOME change in my size; and as it
can't possibly make me larger, it must make me smaller, I
suppose.'

  So she swallowed one of the cakes, and was delighted to find
that she began shrinking directly.  As soon as she was small
enough to get through the door, she ran out of the house, and
found quite a crowd of little animals and birds waiting outside.
The poor little Lizard, Bill, was in the middle, being held up by
two guinea-pigs, who were giving it something out of a bottle.
They all made a rush at Alice the moment she appeared; but she
ran off as hard as she could, and soon found herself safe in a
thick wood.

  `The first thing I've got to do,' said Alice to herself, as she
wandered about in the wood, `is to grow to my right size again;
and the second thing is to find my way into that lovely garden.
I think that will be the best plan.'

  It sounded an excellent plan, no doubt, and very neatly and
simply arranged; the only difficulty was, that she had not the
smallest idea how to set about it; and while she was peering
about anxiously among the trees, a little sharp bark just over
her head made her look up in a great hurry.

  An enormous puppy was looking down at her with large round
eyes, and feebly stretching out one paw, trying to touch her.
`Poor little thing!' said Alice, in a coaxing tone, and she tried
hard to whistle to it; but she was terribly frightened all the
time at the thought that it might be hungry, in which case it
would be very likely to eat her up in spite of all her coaxing.

  Hardly knowing what she did, she picked up a little bit of
stick, and held it out to the puppy; whereupon the puppy jumped
into the air off all its feet at once, with a yelp of delight,
and rushed at the stick, and made believe to worry it; then Alice
dodged behind a great thistle, to keep herself from being run
over; and the moment she appeared on the other side, the puppy
made another rush at the stick, and tumbled head over heels in
its hurry to get hold of it; then Alice, thinking it was very
like having a game of play with a cart-horse, and expecting every
moment to be trampled under its feet, ran round the thistle
again; then the puppy began a series of short charges at the
stick, running a very little way forwards each time and a long
way back, and barking hoarsely all the while, till at last it sat
down a good way off, panting, with its tongue hanging out of its
mouth, and its great eyes half shut.

  This seemed to Alice a good opportunity for making her escape;
so she set off at once, and ran till she was quite tired and out
of breath, and till the puppy's bark sounded quite faint in the
distance.

  `And yet what a dear little puppy it was!' said Alice, as she
leant against a buttercup to rest herself, and fanned herself
with one of the leaves:  `I should have liked teaching it tricks
very much, if--if I'd only been the right size to do it!  Oh
dear!  I'd nearly forgotten that I've got to grow up again!  Let
me see--how IS it to be managed?  I suppose I ought to eat or
drink something or other; but the great question is, what?'

  The great question certainly was, what?  Alice looked all round
her at the flowers and the blades of grass, but she did not see
anything that looked like the right thing to eat or drink under
the circumstances.  There was a large mushroom growing near her,
about the same height as herself; and when she had looked under
it, and on both sides of it, and behind it, it occurred to her
that she might as well look and see what was on the top of it.

  She stretched herself up on tiptoe, and peeped over the edge of
the mushroom, and her eyes immediately met those of a large
caterpillar, that was sitting on the top with its arms folded,
quietly smoking a long hookah, and taking not the smallest notice
of her or of anything else.



                            CHAPTER V

                    Advice from a Caterpillar


  The Caterpillar and Alice looked at each other for some time in
silence:  at last the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its
mouth, and addressed her in a languid, sleepy voice.

  `Who are YOU?' said the Caterpillar.

  This was not an encouraging opening for a conversation.  Alice
replied, rather shyly, `I--I hardly know, sir, just at present--
at least I know who I WAS when I got up this morning, but I think
I must have been changed several times since then.'

  `What do you mean by that?' said the Caterpillar sternly.
`Explain yourself!'

  `I can't explain MYSELF, I'm afraid, sir' said Alice, `because
I'm not myself, you see.'

  `I don't see,' said the Caterpillar.

  `I'm afraid I can't put it more clearly,' Alice replied very
politely, `for I can't understand it myself to begin with; and
being so many different sizes in a day is very confusing.'

  `It isn't,' said the Caterpillar.

  `Well, perhaps you haven't found it so yet,' said Alice; `but
when you have to turn into a chrysalis--you will some day, you
know--and then after that into a butterfly, I should think you'll
feel it a little queer, won't you?'

  `Not a bit,' said the Caterpillar.

  `Well, perhaps your feelings may be different,' said Alice;
`all I know is, it would feel very queer to ME.'

  `You!' said the Caterpillar contemptuously.  `Who are YOU?'

  Which brought them back again to the beginning of the
conversation.  Alice felt a little irritated at the Caterpillar's
making such VERY short remarks, and she drew herself up and said,
very gravely, `I think, you ought to tell me who YOU are, first.'

  `Why?' said the Caterpillar.

  Here was another puzzling question; and as Alice could not
think of any good reason, and as the Caterpillar seemed to be in
a VERY unpleasant state of mind, she turned away.

  `Come back!' the Caterpillar called after her.  `I've something
important to say!'

  This sounded promising, certainly:  Alice turned and came back
again.

  `Keep your temper,' said the Caterpillar.

  `Is that all?' said Alice, swallowing down her anger as well as
she could.

  `No,' said the Caterpillar.

  Alice thought she might as well wait, as she had nothing else
to do, and perhaps after all it might tell her something worth
hearing.  For some minutes it puffed away without speaking, but
at last it unfolded its arms, took the hookah out of its mouth
again, and said, `So you think you're changed, do you?'

  `I'm afraid I am, sir,' said Alice; `I can't remember things as
I used--and I don't keep the same size for ten minutes together!'

  `Can't remember WHAT things?' said the Caterpillar.

  `Well, I've tried to say "HOW DOTH THE LITTLE BUSY BEE," but it
all came different!' Alice replied in a very melancholy voice.

  `Repeat, "YOU ARE OLD, FATHER WILLIAM,"' said the Caterpillar.

  Alice folded her hands, and began:--

    `You are old, Father William,' the young man said,
      `And your hair has become very white;
    And yet you incessantly stand on your head--
      Do you think, at your age, it is right?'

    `In my youth,' Father William replied to his son,
      `I feared it might injure the brain;
    But, now that I'm perfectly sure I have none,
      Why, I do it again and again.'

    `You are old,' said the youth, `as I mentioned before,
      And have grown most uncommonly fat;
    Yet you turned a back-somersault in at the door--
      Pray, what is the reason of that?'

    `In my youth,' said the sage, as he shook his grey locks,
      `I kept all my limbs very supple
    By the use of this ointment--one shilling the box--
      Allow me to sell you a couple?'

    `You are old,' said the youth, `and your jaws are too weak
      For anything tougher than suet;
    Yet you finished the goose, with the bones and the beak--
      Pray how did you manage to do it?'

    `In my youth,' said his father, `I took to the law,
      And argued each case with my wife;
    And the muscular strength, which it gave to my jaw,
      Has lasted the rest of my life.'

    `You are old,' said the youth, `one would hardly suppose
      That your eye was as steady as ever;
    Yet you balanced an eel on the end of your nose--
      What made you so awfully clever?'

    `I have answered three questions, and that is enough,'
      Said his father; `don't give yourself airs!
    Do you think I can listen all day to such stuff?
      Be off, or I'll kick you down stairs!'


  `That is not said right,' said the Caterpillar.

  `Not QUITE right, I'm afraid,' said Alice, timidly; `some of the
words have got altered.'

  `It is wrong from beginning to end,' said the Caterpillar
decidedly, and there was silence for some minutes.

  The Caterpillar was the first to speak.

  `What size do you want to be?' it asked.

  `Oh, I'm not particular as to size,' Alice hastily replied;
`only one doesn't like changing so often, you know.'

  `I DON'T know,' said the Caterpillar.

  Alice said nothing:  she had never been so much contradicted in
her life before, and she felt that she was losing her temper.

  `Are you content now?' said the Caterpillar.

  `Well, I should like to be a LITTLE larger, sir, if you
wouldn't mind,' said Alice:  `three inches is such a wretched
height to be.'

  `It is a very good height indeed!' said the Caterpillar
angrily, rearing itself upright as it spoke (it was exactly three
inches high).

  `But I'm not used to it!' pleaded poor Alice in a piteous tone.
And she thought of herself, `I wish the creatures wouldn't be so
easily offended!'

  `You'll get used to it in time,' said the Caterpillar; and it
put the hookah into its mouth and began smoking again.

  This time Alice waited patiently until it chose to speak again.
In a minute or two the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its
mouth and yawned once or twice, and shook itself.  Then it got
down off the mushroom, and crawled away in the grass, merely
remarking as it went, `One side will make you grow taller, and
the other side will make you grow shorter.'

  `One side of WHAT?  The other side of WHAT?' thought Alice to
herself.

  `Of the mushroom,' said the Caterpillar, just as if she had
asked it aloud; and in another moment it was out of sight.

  Alice remained looking thoughtfully at the mushroom for a
minute, trying to make out which were the two sides of it; and as
it was perfectly round, she found this a very difficult question.
However, at last she stretched her arms round it as far as they
would go, and broke off a bit of the edge with each hand.

  `And now which is which?' she said to herself, and nibbled a
little of the right-hand bit to try the effect:  the next moment
she felt a violent blow underneath her chin:  it had struck her
foot!

  She was a good deal frightened by this very sudden change, but
she felt that there was no time to be lost, as she was shrinking
rapidly; so she set to work at once to eat some of the other bit.
Her chin was pressed so closely against her foot, that there was
hardly room to open her mouth; but she did it at last, and
managed to swallow a morsel of the lefthand bit.


     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

         *       *       *       *       *       *

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

  `Come, my head's free at last!' said Alice in a tone of
delight, which changed into alarm in another moment, when she
found that her shoulders were nowhere to be found:  all she could
see, when she looked down, was an immense length of neck, which
seemed to rise like a stalk out of a sea of green leaves that lay
far below her.

  `What CAN all that green stuff be?' said Alice.  `And where
HAVE my shoulders got to?  And oh, my poor hands, how is it I
can't see you?'  She was moving them about as she spoke, but no
result seemed to follow, except a little shaking among the
distant green leaves.

  As there seemed to be no chance of getting her hands up to her
head, she tried to get her head down to them, and was delighted
to find that her neck would bend about easily in any direction,
like a serpent.  She had just succeeded in curving it down into a
graceful zigzag, and was going to dive in among the leaves, which
she found to be nothing but the tops of the trees under which she
had been wandering, when a sharp hiss made her draw back in a
hurry:  a large pigeon had flown into her face, and was beating
her violently with its wings.

  `Serpent!' screamed the Pigeon.

  `I'm NOT a serpent!' said Alice indignantly.  `Let me alone!'

  `Serpent, I say again!' repeated the Pigeon, but in a more
subdued tone, and added with a kind of sob, `I've tried every
way, and nothing seems to suit them!'

  `I haven't the least idea what you're talking about,' said
Alice.

  `I've tried the roots of trees, and I've tried banks, and I've
tried hedges,' the Pigeon went on, without attending to her; `but
those serpents!  There's no pleasing them!'

  Alice was more and more puzzled, but she thought there was no
use in saying anything more till the Pigeon had finished.

  `As if it wasn't trouble enough hatching the eggs,' said the
Pigeon; `but I must be on the look-out for serpents night and
day!  Why, I haven't had a wink of sleep these three weeks!'

  `I'm very sorry you've been annoyed,' said Alice, who was
beginning to see its meaning.

  `And just as I'd taken the highest tree in the wood,' continued
the Pigeon, raising its voice to a shriek, `and just as I was
thinking I should be free of them at last, they must needs come
wriggling down from the sky!  Ugh, Serpent!'

  `But I'm NOT a serpent, I tell you!' said Alice.  `I'm a--I'm
a--'

  `Well!  WHAT are you?' said the Pigeon.  `I can see you're
trying to invent something!'

  `I--I'm a little girl,' said Alice, rather doubtfully, as she
remembered the number of changes she had gone through that day.

  `A likely story indeed!' said the Pigeon in a tone of the
deepest contempt.  `I've seen a good many little girls in my
time, but never ONE with such a neck as that!  No, no!  You're a
serpent; and there's no use denying it.  I suppose you'll be
telling me next that you never tasted an egg!'

  `I HAVE tasted eggs, certainly,' said Alice, who was a very
truthful child; `but little girls eat eggs quite as much as
serpents do, you know.'

  `I don't believe it,' said the Pigeon; `but if they do, why
then they're a kind of serpent, that's all I can say.'

  This was such a new idea to Alice, that she was quite silent
for a minute or two, which gave the Pigeon the opportunity of
adding, `You're looking for eggs, I know THAT well enough; and
what does it matter to me whether you're a little girl or a
serpent?'

  `It matters a good deal to ME,' said Alice hastily; `but I'm
not looking for eggs, as it happens; and if I was, I shouldn't
want YOURS:  I don't like them raw.'

  `Well, be off, then!' said the Pigeon in a sulky tone, as it
settled down again into its nest.  Alice crouched down among the
trees as well as she could, for her neck kept getting entangled
among the branches, and every now and then she had to stop and
untwist it.  After a while she remembered that she still held the
pieces of mushroom in her hands, and she set to work very
carefully, nibbling first at one and then at the other, and
growing sometimes taller and sometimes shorter, until she had
succeeded in bringing herself down to her usual height.

  It was so long since she had been anything near the right size,
that it felt quite strange at first; but she got used to it in a
few minutes, and began talking to herself, as usual.  `Come,
there's half my plan done now!  How puzzling all these changes
are!  I'm never sure what I'm going to be, from one minute to
another!  However, I've got back to my right size:  the next
thing is, to get into that beautiful garden--how IS that to be
done, I wonder?'  As she said this, she came suddenly upon an
open place, with a little house in it about four feet high.
`Whoever lives there,' thought Alice, `it'll never do to come
upon them THIS size:  why, I should frighten them out of their
wits!'  So she began nibbling at the righthand bit again, and did
not venture to go near the house till she had brought herself
down to nine inches high.



                           CHAPTER VI

                         Pig and Pepper


  For a minute or two she stood looking at the house, and
wondering what to do next, when suddenly a footman in livery came
running out of the wood--(she considered him to be a footman
because he was in livery:  otherwise, judging by his face only,
she would have called him a fish)--and rapped loudly at the door
with his knuckles.  It was opened by another footman in livery,
with a round face, and large eyes like a frog; and both footmen,
Alice noticed, had powdered hair that curled all over their
heads.  She felt very curious to know what it was all about, and
crept a little way out of the wood to listen.

  The Fish-Footman began by producing from under his arm a great
letter, nearly as large as himself, and this he handed over to
the other, saying, in a solemn tone, `For the Duchess.  An
invitation from the Queen to play croquet.'  The Frog-Footman
repeated, in the same solemn tone, only changing the order of the
words a little, `From the Queen.  An invitation for the Duchess
to play croquet.'

  Then they both bowed low, and their curls got entangled
together.

  Alice laughed so much at this, that she had to run back into
the wood for fear of their hearing her; and when she next peeped
out the Fish-Footman was gone, and the other was sitting on the
ground near the door, staring stupidly up into the sky.

  Alice went timidly up to the door, and knocked.

  `There's no sort of use in knocking,' said the Footman, `and
that for two reasons.  First, because I'm on the same side of the
door as you are; secondly, because they're making such a noise
inside, no one could possibly hear you.'  And certainly there was
a most extraordinary noise going on within--a constant howling
and sneezing, and every now and then a great crash, as if a dish
or kettle had been broken to pieces.

  `Please, then,' said Alice, `how am I to get in?'

  `There might be some sense in your knocking,' the Footman went
on without attending to her, `if we had the door between us.  For
instance, if you were INSIDE, you might knock, and I could let
you out, you know.'  He was looking up into the sky all the time
he was speaking, and this Alice thought decidedly uncivil.  `But
perhaps he can't help it,' she said to herself; `his eyes are so
VERY nearly at the top of his head.  But at any rate he might
answer questions.--How am I to get in?' she repeated, aloud.

  `I shall sit here,' the Footman remarked, `till tomorrow--'

  At this moment the door of the house opened, and a large plate
came skimming out, straight at the Footman's head:  it just
grazed his nose, and broke to pieces against one of the trees
behind him.

  `--or next day, maybe,' the Footman continued in the same tone,
exactly as if nothing had happened.

  `How am I to get in?' asked Alice again, in a louder tone.

  `ARE you to get in at all?' said the Footman.  `That's the
first question, you know.'

  It was, no doubt:  only Alice did not like to be told so.
`It's really dreadful,' she muttered to herself, `the way all the
creatures argue.  It's enough to drive one crazy!'

  The Footman seemed to think this a good opportunity for
repeating his remark, with variations.  `I shall sit here,' he
said, `on and off, for days and days.'

  `But what am I to do?' said Alice.

  `Anything you like,' said the Footman, and began whistling.

  `Oh, there's no use in talking to him,' said Alice desperately:
`he's perfectly idiotic!'  And she opened the door and went in.

  The door led right into a large kitchen, which was full of
smoke from one end to the other:  the Duchess was sitting on a
three-legged stool in the middle, nursing a baby; the cook was
leaning over the fire, stirring a large cauldron which seemed to
be full of soup.

  `There's certainly too much pepper in that soup!' Alice said to
herself, as well as she could for sneezing.

  There was certainly too much of it in the air.  Even the
Duchess sneezed occasionally; and as for the baby, it was
sneezing and howling alternately without a moment's pause.  The
only things in the kitchen that did not sneeze, were the cook,
and a large cat which was sitting on the hearth and grinning from
ear to ear.

  `Please would you tell me,' said Alice, a little timidly, for
she was not quite sure whether it was good manners for her to
speak first, `why your cat grins like that?'

  `It's a Cheshire cat,' said the Duchess, `and that's why.
Pig!'

  She said the last word with such sudden violence that Alice
quite jumped; but she saw in another moment that it was addressed
to the baby, and not to her, so she took courage, and went on
again:--

  `I didn't know that Cheshire cats always grinned; in fact, I
didn't know that cats COULD grin.'

  `They all can,' said the Duchess; `and most of 'em do.'

  `I don't know of any that do,' Alice said very politely,
feeling quite pleased to have got into a conversation.

  `You don't know much,' said the Duchess; `and that's a fact.'

  Alice did not at all like the tone of this remark, and thought
it would be as well to introduce some other subject of
conversation.  While she was trying to fix on one, the cook took
the cauldron of soup off the fire, and at once set to work
throwing everything within her reach at the Duchess and the baby
--the fire-irons came first; then followed a shower of saucepans,
plates, and dishes.  The Duchess took no notice of them even when
they hit her; and the baby was howling so much already, that it
was quite impossible to say whether the blows hurt it or not.

  `Oh, PLEASE mind what you're doing!' cried Alice, jumping up
and down in an agony of terror.  `Oh, there goes his PRECIOUS
nose'; as an unusually large saucepan flew close by it, and very
nearly carried it off.

  `If everybody minded their own business,' the Duchess said in a
hoarse growl, `the world would go round a deal faster than it
does.'

  `Which would NOT be an advantage,' said Alice, who felt very
glad to get an opportunity of showing off a little of her
knowledge.  `Just think of what work it would make with the day
and night!  You see the earth takes twenty-four hours to turn
round on its axis--'

  `Talking of axes,' said the Duchess, `chop off her head!'

  Alice glanced rather anxiously at the cook, to see if she meant
to take the hint; but the cook was busily stirring the soup, and
seemed not to be listening, so she went on again:  `Twenty-four
hours, I THINK; or is it twelve?  I--'

  `Oh, don't bother ME,' said the Duchess; `I never could abide
figures!'  And with that she began nursing her child again,
singing a sort of lullaby to it as she did so, and giving it a
violent shake at the end of every line:

        `Speak roughly to your little boy,
          And beat him when he sneezes:
        He only does it to annoy,
          Because he knows it teases.'

                    CHORUS.

    (In which the cook and the baby joined):--

                `Wow! wow! wow!'

  While the Duchess sang the second verse of the song, she kept
tossing the baby violently up and down, and the poor little thing
howled so, that Alice could hardly hear the words:--

        `I speak severely to my boy,
          I beat him when he sneezes;
        For he can thoroughly enjoy
          The pepper when he pleases!'

                    CHORUS.

                `Wow! wow! wow!'

  `Here! you may nurse it a bit, if you like!' the Duchess said
to Alice, flinging the baby at her as she spoke.  `I must go and
get ready to play croquet with the Queen,' and she hurried out of
the room.  The cook threw a frying-pan after her as she went out,
but it just missed her.

  Alice caught the baby with some difficulty, as it was a queer-
shaped little creature, and held out its arms and legs in all
directions, `just like a star-fish,' thought Alice.  The poor
little thing was snorting like a steam-engine when she caught it,
and kept doubling itself up and straightening itself out again,
so that altogether, for the first minute or two, it was as much
as she could do to hold it.

  As soon as she had made out the proper way of nursing it,
(which was to twist it up into a sort of knot, and then keep
tight hold of its right ear and left foot, so as to prevent its
undoing itself,) she carried it out into the open air.  `IF I
don't take this child away with me,' thought Alice, `they're sure
to kill it in a day or two:  wouldn't it be murder to leave it
behind?'  She said the last words out loud, and the little thing
grunted in reply (it had left off sneezing by this time).  `Don't
grunt,' said Alice; `that's not at all a proper way of expressing
yourself.'

  The baby grunted again, and Alice looked very anxiously into
its face to see what was the matter with it.  There could be no
doubt that it had a VERY turn-up nose, much more like a snout
than a real nose; also its eyes were getting extremely small for
a baby:  altogether Alice did not like the look of the thing at
all.  `But perhaps it was only sobbing,' she thought, and looked
into its eyes again, to see if there were any tears.

  No, there were no tears.  `If you're going to turn into a pig,
my dear,' said Alice, seriously, `I'll have nothing more to do
with you.  Mind now!'  The poor little thing sobbed again (or
grunted, it was impossible to say which), and they went on for
some while in silence.

  Alice was just beginning to think to herself, `Now, what am I
to do with this creature when I get it home?' when it grunted
again, so violently, that she looked down into its face in some
alarm.  This time there could be NO mistake about it:  it was
neither more nor less than a pig, and she felt that it would be
quite absurd for her to carry it further.

  So she set the little creature down, and felt quite relieved to
see it trot away quietly into the wood.  `If it had grown up,'
she said to herself, `it would have made a dreadfully ugly child:
but it makes rather a handsome pig, I think.'  And she began
thinking over other children she knew, who might do very well as
pigs, and was just saying to herself, `if one only knew the right
way to change them--' when she was a little startled by seeing
the Cheshire Cat sitting on a bough of a tree a few yards off.

  The Cat only grinned when it saw Alice.  It looked good-
natured, she thought:  still it had VERY long claws and a great
many teeth, so she felt that it ought to be treated with respect.

  `Cheshire Puss,' she began, rather timidly, as she did not at
all know whether it would like the name:  however, it only
grinned a little wider.  `Come, it's pleased so far,' thought
Alice, and she went on.  `Would you tell me, please, which way I
ought to go from here?'

  `That depends a good deal on where you want to get to,' said
the Cat.

  `I don't much care where--' said Alice.

  `Then it doesn't matter which way you go,' said the Cat.

  `--so long as I get SOMEWHERE,' Alice added as an explanation.

  `Oh, you're sure to do that,' said the Cat, `if you only walk
long enough.'

  Alice felt that this could not be denied, so she tried another
question.  `What sort of people live about here?'

  `In THAT direction,' the Cat said, waving its right paw round,
`lives a Hatter:  and in THAT direction,' waving the other paw,
`lives a March Hare.  Visit either you like:  they're both mad.'

  `But I don't want to go among mad people,' Alice remarked.

  `Oh, you can't help that,' said the Cat:  `we're all mad here.
I'm mad.  You're mad.'

  `How do you know I'm mad?' said Alice.

  `You must be,' said the Cat, `or you wouldn't have come here.'

  Alice didn't think that proved it at all; however, she went on
`And how do you know that you're mad?'

  `To begin with,' said the Cat, `a dog's not mad.  You grant
that?'

  `I suppose so,' said Alice.

  `Well, then,' the Cat went on, `you see, a dog growls when it's
angry, and wags its tail when it's pleased.  Now I growl when I'm
pleased, and wag my tail when I'm angry.  Therefore I'm mad.'

  `I call it purring, not growling,' said Alice.

  `Call it what you like,' said the Cat.  `Do you play croquet
with the Queen to-day?'

  `I should like it very much,' said Alice, `but I haven't been
invited yet.'

  `You'll see me there,' said the Cat, and vanished.

  Alice was not much surprised at this, she was getting so used
to queer things happening.  While she was looking at the place
where it had been, it suddenly appeared again.

  `By-the-bye, what became of the baby?' said the Cat.  `I'd
nearly forgotten to ask.'

  `It turned into a pig,' Alice quietly said, just as if it had
come back in a natural way.

  `I thought it would,' said the Cat, and vanished again.

  Alice waited a little, half expecting to see it again, but it
did not appear, and after a minute or two she walked on in the
direction in which the March Hare was said to live.  `I've seen
hatters before,' she said to herself; `the March Hare will be
much the most interesting, and perhaps as this is May it won't be
raving mad--at least not so mad as it was in March.'  As she said
this, she looked up, and there was the Cat again, sitting on a
branch of a tree.

  `Did you say pig, or fig?' said the Cat.

  `I said pig,' replied Alice; `and I wish you wouldn't keep
appearing and vanishing so suddenly:  you make one quite giddy.'

  `All right,' said the Cat; and this time it vanished quite
slowly, beginning with the end of the tail, and ending with the
grin, which remained some time after the rest of it had gone.

  `Well!  I've often seen a cat without a grin,' thought Alice;
`but a grin without a cat!  It's the most curious thing I ever
say in my life!'

  She had not gone much farther before she came in sight of the
house of the March Hare:  she thought it must be the right house,
because the chimneys were shaped like ears and the roof was
thatched with fur.  It was so large a house, that she did not
like to go nearer till she had nibbled some more of the lefthand
bit of mushroom, and raised herself to about two feet high:  even
then she walked up towards it rather timidly, saying to herself
`Suppose it should be raving mad after all!  I almost wish I'd
gone to see the Hatter instead!'



                           CHAPTER VII

                         A Mad Tea-Party


  There was a table set out under a tree in front of the house,
and the March Hare and the Hatter were having tea at it:  a
Dormouse was sitting between them, fast asleep, and the other two
were using it as a cushion, resting their elbows on it, and the
talking over its head.  `Very uncomfortable for the Dormouse,'
thought Alice; `only, as it's asleep, I suppose it doesn't mind.'

  The table was a large one, but the three were all crowded
together at one corner of it:  `No room!  No room!' they cried
out when they saw Alice coming.  `There's PLENTY of room!' said
Alice indignantly, and she sat down in a large arm-chair at one
end of the table.

  `Have some wine,' the March Hare said in an encouraging tone.

  Alice looked all round the table, but there was nothing on it
but tea.  `I don't see any wine,' she remarked.

  `There isn't any,' said the March Hare.

  `Then it wasn't very civil of you to offer it,' said Alice
angrily.

  `It wasn't very civil of you to sit down without being
invited,' said the March Hare.

  `I didn't know it was YOUR table,' said Alice; `it's laid for a
great many more than three.'

  `Your hair wants cutting,' said the Hatter.  He had been
looking at Alice for some time with great curiosity, and this was
his first speech.

  `You should learn not to make personal remarks,' Alice said
with some severity; `it's very rude.'

  The Hatter opened his eyes very wide on hearing this; but all
he SAID was, `Why is a raven like a writing-desk?'

  `Come, we shall have some fun now!' thought Alice.  `I'm glad
they've begun asking riddles.--I believe I can guess that,' she
added aloud.

  `Do you mean that you think you can find out the answer to it?'
said the March Hare.

  `Exactly so,' said Alice.

  `Then you should say what you mean,' the March Hare went on.

  `I do,' Alice hastily replied; `at least--at least I mean what
I say--that's the same thing, you know.'

  `Not the same thing a bit!' said the Hatter.  `You might just
as well say that "I see what I eat" is the same thing as "I eat
what I see"!'

  `You might just as well say,' added the March Hare, `that "I
like what I get" is the same thing as "I get what I like"!'

  `You might just as well say,' added the Dormouse, who seemed to
be talking in his sleep, `that "I breathe when I sleep" is the
same thing as "I sleep when I breathe"!'

  `It IS the same thing with you,' said the Hatter, and here the
conversation dropped, and the party sat silent for a minute,
while Alice thought over all she could remember about ravens and
writing-desks, which wasn't much.

  The Hatter was the first to break the silence.  `What day of
the month is it?' he said, turning to Alice:  he had taken his
watch out of his pocket, and was looking at it uneasily, shaking
it every now and then, and holding it to his ear.

  Alice considered a little, and then said `The fourth.'

  `Two days wrong!' sighed the Hatter.  `I told you butter
wouldn't suit the works!' he added looking angrily at the March
Hare.

  `It was the BEST butter,' the March Hare meekly replied.

  `Yes, but some crumbs must have got in as well,' the Hatter
grumbled:  `you shouldn't have put it in with the bread-knife.'

  The March Hare took the watch and looked at it gloomily:  then
he dipped it into his cup of tea, and looked at it again:  but he
could think of nothing better to say than his first remark, `It
was the BEST butter, you know.'

  Alice had been looking over his shoulder with some curiosity.
`What a funny watch!' she remarked.  `It tells the day of the
month, and doesn't tell what o'clock it is!'

  `Why should it?' muttered the Hatter.  `Does YOUR watch tell
you what year it is?'

  `Of course not,' Alice replied very readily:  `but that's
because it stays the same year for such a long time together.'

  `Which is just the case with MINE,' said the Hatter.

  Alice felt dreadfully puzzled.  The Hatter's remark seemed to
have no sort of meaning in it, and yet it was certainly English.
`I don't quite understand you,' she said, as politely as she
could.

  `The Dormouse is asleep again,' said the Hatter, and he poured
a little hot tea upon its nose.

  The Dormouse shook its head impatiently, and said, without
opening its eyes, `Of course, of course; just what I was going to
remark myself.'

  `Have you guessed the riddle yet?' the Hatter said, turning to
Alice again.

  `No, I give it up,' Alice replied:  `what's the answer?'

  `I haven't the slightest idea,' said the Hatter.

  `Nor I,' said the March Hare.

  Alice sighed wearily.  `I think you might do something better
with the time,' she said, `than waste it in asking riddles that
have no answers.'

  `If you knew Time as well as I do,' said the Hatter, `you
wouldn't talk about wasting IT.  It's HIM.'

  `I don't know what you mean,' said Alice.

  `Of course you don't!' the Hatter said, tossing his head
contemptuously.  `I dare say you never even spoke to Time!'

  `Perhaps not,' Alice cautiously replied:  `but I know I have to
beat time when I learn music.'

  `Ah! that accounts for it,' said the Hatter.  `He won't stand
beating.  Now, if you only kept on good terms with him, he'd do
almost anything you liked with the clock.  For instance, suppose
it were nine o'clock in the morning, just time to begin lessons:
you'd only have to whisper a hint to Time, and round goes the
clock in a twinkling!  Half-past one, time for dinner!'

  (`I only wish it was,' the March Hare said to itself in a
whisper.)

  `That would be grand, certainly,' said Alice thoughtfully:
`but then--I shouldn't be hungry for it, you know.'

  `Not at first, perhaps,' said the Hatter:  `but you could keep
it to half-past one as long as you liked.'

  `Is that the way YOU manage?' Alice asked.

  The Hatter shook his head mournfully.  `Not I!' he replied.
`We quarrelled last March--just before HE went mad, you know--'
(pointing with his tea spoon at the March Hare,) `--it was at the
great concert given by the Queen of Hearts, and I had to sing

            "Twinkle, twinkle, little bat!
            How I wonder what you're at!"

You know the song, perhaps?'

  `I've heard something like it,' said Alice.

  `It goes on, you know,' the Hatter continued, `in this way:--

            "Up above the world you fly,
            Like a tea-tray in the sky.
                    Twinkle, twinkle--"'

Here the Dormouse shook itself, and began singing in its sleep
`Twinkle, twinkle, twinkle, twinkle--' and went on so long that
they had to pinch it to make it stop.

  `Well, I'd hardly finished the first verse,' said the Hatter,
`when the Queen jumped up and bawled out, "He's murdering the
time!  Off with his head!"'

  `How dreadfully savage!' exclaimed Alice.

  `And ever since that,' the Hatter went on in a mournful tone,
`he won't do a thing I ask!  It's always six o'clock now.'

  A bright idea came into Alice's head.  `Is that the reason so
many tea-things are put out here?' she asked.

  `Yes, that's it,' said the Hatter with a sigh:  `it's always
tea-time, and we've no time to wash the things between whiles.'

  `Then you keep moving round, I suppose?' said Alice.

  `Exactly so,' said the Hatter:  `as the things get used up.'

  `But what happens when you come to the beginning again?' Alice
ventured to ask.

  `Suppose we change the subject,' the March Hare interrupted,
yawning.  `I'm getting tired of this.  I vote the young lady
tells us a story.'

  `I'm afraid I don't know one,' said Alice, rather alarmed at
the proposal.

  `Then the Dormouse shall!' they both cried.  `Wake up,
Dormouse!'  And they pinched it on both sides at once.

  The Dormouse slowly opened his eyes.  `I wasn't asleep,' he
said in a hoarse, feeble voice:  `I heard every word you fellows
were saying.'

  `Tell us a story!' said the March Hare.

  `Yes, please do!' pleaded Alice.

  `And be quick about it,' added the Hatter, `or you'll be asleep
again before it's done.'

  `Once upon a time there were three little sisters,' the
Dormouse began in a great hurry; `and their names were Elsie,
Lacie, and Tillie; and they lived at the bottom of a well--'

  `What did they live on?' said Alice, who always took a great
interest in questions of eating and drinking.

  `They lived on treacle,' said the Dormouse, after thinking a
minute or two.

  `They couldn't have done that, you know,' Alice gently
remarked; `they'd have been ill.'

  `So they were,' said the Dormouse; `VERY ill.'

  Alice tried to fancy to herself what such an extraordinary ways
of living would be like, but it puzzled her too much, so she went
on:  `But why did they live at the bottom of a well?'

  `Take some more tea,' the March Hare said to Alice, very
earnestly.

  `I've had nothing yet,' Alice replied in an offended tone, `so
I can't take more.'

  `You mean you can't take LESS,' said the Hatter:  `it's very
easy to take MORE than nothing.'

  `Nobody asked YOUR opinion,' said Alice.

  `Who's making personal remarks now?' the Hatter asked
triumphantly.

  Alice did not quite know what to say to this:  so she helped
herself to some tea and bread-and-butter, and then turned to the
Dormouse, and repeated her question.  `Why did they live at the
bottom of a well?'

  The Dormouse again took a minute or two to think about it, and
then said, `It was a treacle-well.'

  `There's no such thing!'  Alice was beginning very angrily, but
the Hatter and the March Hare went `Sh! sh!' and the Dormouse
sulkily remarked, `If you can't be civil, you'd better finish the
story for yourself.'

  `No, please go on!' Alice said very humbly; `I won't interrupt
again.  I dare say there may be ONE.'

  `One, indeed!' said the Dormouse indignantly.  However, he
consented to go on.  `And so these three little sisters--they
were learning to draw, you know--'

  `What did they draw?' said Alice, quite forgetting her promise.

  `Treacle,' said the Dormouse, without considering at all this
time.

  `I want a clean cup,' interrupted the Hatter:  `let's all move
one place on.'

  He moved on as he spoke, and the Dormouse followed him:  the
March Hare moved into the Dormouse's place, and Alice rather
unwillingly took the place of the March Hare.  The Hatter was the
only one who got any advantage from the change:  and Alice was a
good deal worse off than before, as the March Hare had just upset
the milk-jug into his plate.

  Alice did not wish to offend the Dormouse again, so she began
very cautiously:  `But I don't understand.  Where did they draw
the treacle from?'

  `You can draw water out of a water-well,' said the Hatter; `so
I should think you could draw treacle out of a treacle-well--eh,
stupid?'

  `But they were IN the well,' Alice said to the Dormouse, not
choosing to notice this last remark.

  `Of course they were', said the Dormouse; `--well in.'

  This answer so confused poor Alice, that she let the Dormouse
go on for some time without interrupting it.

  `They were learning to draw,' the Dormouse went on, yawning and
rubbing its eyes, for it was getting very sleepy; `and they drew
all manner of things--everything that begins with an M--'

  `Why with an M?' said Alice.

  `Why not?' said the March Hare.

  Alice was silent.

  The Dormouse had closed its eyes by this time, and was going
off into a doze; but, on being pinched by the Hatter, it woke up
again with a little shriek, and went on:  `--that begins with an
M, such as mouse-traps, and the moon, and memory, and muchness--
you know you say things are "much of a muchness"--did you ever
see such a thing as a drawing of a muchness?'

  `Really, now you ask me,' said Alice, very much confused, `I
don't think--'

  `Then you shouldn't talk,' said the Hatter.

  This piece of rudeness was more than Alice could bear:  she got
up in great disgust, and walked off; the Dormouse fell asleep
instantly, and neither of the others took the least notice of her
going, though she looked back once or twice, half hoping that
they would call after her:  the last time she saw them, they were
trying to put the Dormouse into the teapot.

  `At any rate I'll never go THERE again!' said Alice as she
picked her way through the wood.  `It's the stupidest tea-party I
ever was at in all my life!'

  Just as she said this, she noticed that one of the trees had a
door leading right into it.  `That's very curious!' she thought.
`But everything's curious today.  I think I may as well go in at
once.'  And in she went.

  Once more she found herself in the long hall, and close to the
little glass table.  `Now, I'll manage better this time,' she
said to herself, and began by taking the little golden key, and
unlocking the door that led into the garden.  Then she went to
work nibbling at the mushroom (she had kept a piece of it in her
pocked) till she was about a foot high:  then she walked down the
little passage:  and THEN--she found herself at last in the
beautiful garden, among the bright flower-beds and the cool
fountains.



                          CHAPTER VIII

                   The Queen's Croquet-Ground


  A large rose-tree stood near the entrance of the garden:  the
roses growing on it were white, but there were three gardeners at
it, busily painting them red.  Alice thought this a very curious
thing, and she went nearer to watch them, and just as she came up
to them she heard one of them say, `Look out now, Five!  Don't go
splashing paint over me like that!'

  `I couldn't help it,' said Five, in a sulky tone; `Seven jogged
my elbow.'

  On which Seven looked up and said, `That's right, Five!  Always
lay the blame on others!'

  `YOU'D better not talk!' said Five.  `I heard the Queen say only
yesterday you deserved to be beheaded!'

  `What for?' said the one who had spoken first.

  `That's none of YOUR business, Two!' said Seven.

  `Yes, it IS his business!' said Five, `and I'll tell him--it
was for bringing the cook tulip-roots instead of onions.'

  Seven flung down his brush, and had just begun `Well, of all
the unjust things--' when his eye chanced to fall upon Alice, as
she stood watching them, and he checked himself suddenly:  the
others looked round also, and all of them bowed low.

  `Would you tell me,' said Alice, a little timidly, `why you are
painting those roses?'

  Five and Seven said nothing, but looked at Two.  Two began in a
low voice, `Why the fact is, you see, Miss, this here ought to
have been a RED rose-tree, and we put a white one in by mistake;
and if the Queen was to find it out, we should all have our heads
cut off, you know.  So you see, Miss, we're doing our best, afore
she comes, to--'  At this moment Five, who had been anxiously
looking across the garden, called out `The Queen!  The Queen!'
and the three gardeners instantly threw themselves flat upon
their faces.  There was a sound of many footsteps, and Alice
looked round, eager to see the Queen.

  First came ten soldiers carrying clubs; these were all shaped
like the three gardeners, oblong and flat, with their hands and
feet at the corners:  next the ten courtiers; these were
ornamented all over with diamonds, and walked two and two, as the
soldiers did.  After these came the royal children; there were
ten of them, and the little dears came jumping merrily along hand
in hand, in couples:  they were all ornamented with hearts.  Next
came the guests, mostly Kings and Queens, and among them Alice
recognised the White Rabbit:  it was talking in a hurried nervous
manner, smiling at everything that was said, and went by without
noticing her.  Then followed the Knave of Hearts, carrying the
King's crown on a crimson velvet cushion; and, last of all this
grand procession, came THE KING AND QUEEN OF HEARTS.

  Alice was rather doubtful whether she ought not to lie down on
her face like the three gardeners, but she could not remember
every having heard of such a rule at processions; `and besides,
what would be the use of a procession,' thought she, `if people
had all to lie down upon their faces, so that they couldn't see
it?'  So she stood still where she was, and waited.

  When the procession came opposite to Alice, they all stopped
and looked at her, and the Queen said severely `Who is this?'
She said it to the Knave of Hearts, who only bowed and smiled in
reply.

  `Idiot!' said the Queen, tossing her head impatiently; and,
turning to Alice, she went on, `What's your name, child?'

  `My name is Alice, so please your Majesty,' said Alice very
politely; but she added, to herself, `Why, they're only a pack of
cards, after all.  I needn't be afraid of them!'

  `And who are THESE?' said the Queen, pointing to the three
gardeners who were lying round the rosetree; for, you see, as
they were lying on their faces, and the pattern on their backs
was the same as the rest of the pack, she could not tell whether
they were gardeners, or soldiers, or courtiers, or three of her
own children.

  `How should I know?' said Alice, surprised at her own courage.
`It's no business of MINE.'

  The Queen turned crimson with fury, and, after glaring at her
for a moment like a wild beast, screamed `Off with her head!
Off--'

  `Nonsense!' said Alice, very loudly and decidedly, and the
Queen was silent.

  The King laid his hand upon her arm, and timidly said
`Consider, my dear:  she is only a child!'

  The Queen turned angrily away from him, and said to the Knave
`Turn them over!'

  The Knave did so, very carefully, with one foot.

  `Get up!' said the Queen, in a shrill, loud voice, and the
three gardeners instantly jumped up, and began bowing to the
King, the Queen, the royal children, and everybody else.

  `Leave off that!' screamed the Queen.  `You make me giddy.'
And then, turning to the rose-tree, she went on, `What HAVE you
been doing here?'

  `May it please your Majesty,' said Two, in a very humble tone,
going down on one knee as he spoke, `we were trying--'

  `I see!' said the Queen, who had meanwhile been examining the
roses.  `Off with their heads!' and the procession moved on,
three of the soldiers remaining behind to execute the unfortunate
gardeners, who ran to Alice for protection.

  `You shan't be beheaded!' said Alice, and she put them into a
large flower-pot that stood near.  The three soldiers wandered
about for a minute or two, looking for them, and then quietly
marched off after the others.

  `Are their heads off?' shouted the Queen.

  `Their heads are gone, if it please your Majesty!' the soldiers
shouted in reply.

  `That's right!' shouted the Queen.  `Can you play croquet?'

  The soldiers were silent, and looked at Alice, as the question
was evidently meant for her.

  `Yes!' shouted Alice.

  `Come on, then!' roared the Queen, and Alice joined the
procession, wondering very much what would happen next.

  `It's--it's a very fine day!' said a timid voice at her side.
She was walking by the White Rabbit, who was peeping anxiously
into her face.

  `Very,' said Alice:  `--where's the Duchess?'

  `Hush!  Hush!' said the Rabbit in a low, hurried tone.  He
looked anxiously over his shoulder as he spoke, and then raised
himself upon tiptoe, put his mouth close to her ear, and
whispered `She's under sentence of execution.'

  `What for?' said Alice.

  `Did you say "What a pity!"?' the Rabbit asked.

  `No, I didn't,' said Alice:  `I don't think it's at all a pity.
I said "What for?"'

  `She boxed the Queen's ears--' the Rabbit began.  Alice gave a
little scream of laughter.  `Oh, hush!' the Rabbit whispered in a
frightened tone.  `The Queen will hear you!  You see, she came
rather late, and the Queen said--'

  `Get to your places!' shouted the Queen in a voice of thunder,
and people began running about in all directions, tumbling up
against each other; however, they got settled down in a minute or
two, and the game began.  Alice thought she had never seen such a
curious croquet-ground in her life; it was all ridges and
furrows; the balls were live hedgehogs, the mallets live
flamingoes, and the soldiers had to double themselves up and to
stand on their hands and feet, to make the arches.

  The chief difficulty Alice found at first was in managing her
flamingo:  she succeeded in getting its body tucked away,
comfortably enough, under her arm, with its legs hanging down,
but generally, just as she had got its neck nicely straightened
out, and was going to give the hedgehog a blow with its head, it
WOULD twist itself round and look up in her face, with such a
puzzled expression that she could not help bursting out laughing:
and when she had got its head down, and was going to begin again,
it was very provoking to find that the hedgehog had unrolled
itself, and was in the act of crawling away:  besides all this,
there was generally a ridge or furrow in the way wherever she
wanted to send the hedgehog to, and, as the doubled-up soldiers
were always getting up and walking off to other parts of the
ground, Alice soon came to the conclusion that it was a very
difficult game indeed.

  The players all played at once without waiting for turns,
quarrelling all the while, and fighting for the hedgehogs; and in
a very short time the Queen was in a furious passion, and went
stamping about, and shouting `Off with his head!' or `Off with
her head!' about once in a minute.

  Alice began to feel very uneasy:  to be sure, she had not as
yet had any dispute with the Queen, but she knew that it might
happen any minute, `and then,' thought she, `what would become of
me?  They're dreadfully fond of beheading people here; the great
wonder is, that there's any one left alive!'

  She was looking about for some way of escape, and wondering
whether she could get away without being seen, when she noticed a
curious appearance in the air:  it puzzled her very much at
first, but, after watching it a minute or two, she made it out to
be a grin, and she said to herself `It's the Cheshire Cat:  now I
shall have somebody to talk to.'

  `How are you getting on?' said the Cat, as soon as there was
mouth enough for it to speak with.

  Alice waited till the eyes appeared, and then nodded.  `It's no
use speaking to it,' she thought, `till its ears have come, or at
least one of them.'  In another minute the whole head appeared,
and then Alice put down her flamingo, and began an account of the
game, feeling very glad she had someone to listen to her.  The
Cat seemed to think that there was enough of it now in sight, and
no more of it appeared.

  `I don't think they play at all fairly,' Alice began, in rather
a complaining tone, `and they all quarrel so dreadfully one can't
hear oneself speak--and they don't seem to have any rules in
particular; at least, if there are, nobody attends to them--and
you've no idea how confusing it is all the things being alive;
for instance, there's the arch I've got to go through next
walking about at the other end of the ground--and I should have
croqueted the Queen's hedgehog just now, only it ran away when it
saw mine coming!'

  `How do you like the Queen?' said the Cat in a low voice.

  `Not at all,' said Alice:  `she's so extremely--'  Just then
she noticed that the Queen was close behind her, listening:  so
she went on, `--likely to win, that it's hardly worth while
finishing the game.'

  The Queen smiled and passed on.

  `Who ARE you talking to?' said the King, going up to Alice, and
looking at the Cat's head with great curiosity.

  `It's a friend of mine--a Cheshire Cat,' said Alice:  `allow me
to introduce it.'

  `I don't like the look of it at all,' said the King:  `however,
it may kiss my hand if it likes.'

  `I'd rather not,' the Cat remarked.

  `Don't be impertinent,' said the King, `and don't look at me
like that!'  He got behind Alice as he spoke.

  `A cat may look at a king,' said Alice.  `I've read that in
some book, but I don't remember where.'

  `Well, it must be removed,' said the King very decidedly, and
he called the Queen, who was passing at the moment, `My dear!  I
wish you would have this cat removed!'

  The Queen had only one way of settling all difficulties, great
or small.  `Off with his head!' she said, without even looking
round.

  `I'll fetch the executioner myself,' said the King eagerly, and
he hurried off.

  Alice thought she might as well go back, and see how the game
was going on, as she heard the Queen's voice in the distance,
screaming with passion.  She had already heard her sentence three
of the players to be executed for having missed their turns, and
she did not like the look of things at all, as the game was in
such confusion that she never knew whether it was her turn or
not.  So she went in search of her hedgehog.

  The hedgehog was engaged in a fight with another hedgehog,
which seemed to Alice an excellent opportunity for croqueting one
of them with the other:  the only difficulty was, that her
flamingo was gone across to the other side of the garden, where
Alice could see it trying in a helpless sort of way to fly up
into a tree.

  By the time she had caught the flamingo and brought it back,
the fight was over, and both the hedgehogs were out of sight:
`but it doesn't matter much,' thought Alice, `as all the arches
are gone from this side of the ground.'  So she tucked it away
under her arm, that it might not escape again, and went back for
a little more conversation with her friend.

  When she got back to the Cheshire Cat, she was surprised to
find quite a large crowd collected round it:  there was a dispute
going on between the executioner, the King, and the Queen, who
were all talking at once, while all the rest were quite silent,
and looked very uncomfortable.

  The moment Alice appeared, she was appealed to by all three to
settle the question, and they repeated their arguments to her,
though, as they all spoke at once, she found it very hard indeed
to make out exactly what they said.

  The executioner's argument was, that you couldn't cut off a
head unless there was a body to cut it off from:  that he had
never had to do such a thing before, and he wasn't going to begin
at HIS time of life.

  The King's argument was, that anything that had a head could be
beheaded, and that you weren't to talk nonsense.

  The Queen's argument was, that if something wasn't done about
it in less than no time she'd have everybody executed, all round.
(It was this last remark that had made the whole party look so
grave and anxious.)

  Alice could think of nothing else to say but `It belongs to the
Duchess:  you'd better ask HER about it.'

  `She's in prison,' the Queen said to the executioner:  `fetch
her here.'  And the executioner went off like an arrow.

   The Cat's head began fading away the moment he was gone, and,
by the time he had come back with the Dutchess, it had entirely
disappeared; so the King and the executioner ran wildly up and
down looking for it, while the rest of the party went back to the game.



                           CHAPTER IX

                     The Mock Turtle's Story


  `You can't think how glad I am to see you again, you dear old
thing!' said the Duchess, as she tucked her arm affectionately
into Alice's, and they walked off together.

  Alice was very glad to find her in such a pleasant temper, and
thought to herself that perhaps it was only the pepper that had
made her so savage when they met in the kitchen.

  `When I'M a Duchess,' she said to herself, (not in a very
hopeful tone though), `I won't have any pepper in my kitchen AT
ALL.  Soup does very well without--Maybe it's always pepper that
makes people hot-tempered,' she went on, very much pleased at
having found out a new kind of rule, `and vinegar that makes them
sour--and camomile that makes them bitter--and--and barley-sugar
and such things that make children sweet-tempered.  I only wish
people knew that:  then they wouldn't be so stingy about it, you
know--'

  She had quite forgotten the Duchess by this time, and was a
little startled when she heard her voice close to her ear.
`You're thinking about something, my dear, and that makes you
forget to talk.  I can't tell you just now what the moral of that
is, but I shall remember it in a bit.'

  `Perhaps it hasn't one,' Alice ventured to remark.

  `Tut, tut, child!' said the Duchess.  `Everything's got a
moral, if only you can find it.'  And she squeezed herself up
closer to Alice's side as she spoke.

  Alice did not much like keeping so close to her:  first,
because the Duchess was VERY ugly; and secondly, because she was
exactly the right height to rest her chin upon Alice's shoulder,
and it was an uncomfortably sharp chin.  However, she did not
like to be rude, so she bore it as well as she could.

  `The game's going on rather better now,' she said, by way of
keeping up the conversation a little.

  `'Tis so,' said the Duchess:  `and the moral of that is--"Oh,
'tis love, 'tis love, that makes the world go round!"'

  `Somebody said,' Alice whispered, `that it's done by everybody
minding their own business!'

  `Ah, well!  It means much the same thing,' said the Duchess,
digging her sharp little chin into Alice's shoulder as she added,
`and the moral of THAT is--"Take care of the sense, and the
sounds will take care of themselves."'

  `How fond she is of finding morals in things!' Alice thought to
herself.

  `I dare say you're wondering why I don't put my arm round your
waist,' the Duchess said after a pause:  `the reason is, that I'm
doubtful about the temper of your flamingo.  Shall I try the
experiment?'

  `HE might bite,' Alice cautiously replied, not feeling at all
anxious to have the experiment tried.

  `Very true,' said the Duchess:  `flamingoes and mustard both
bite.  And the moral of that is--"Birds of a feather flock
together."'

  `Only mustard isn't a bird,' Alice remarked.

  `Right, as usual,' said the Duchess:  `what a clear way you
have of putting things!'

  `It's a mineral, I THINK,' said Alice.

  `Of course it is,' said the Duchess, who seemed ready to agree
to everything that Alice said; `there's a large mustard-mine near
here.  And the moral of that is--"The more there is of mine, the
less there is of yours."'

  `Oh, I know!' exclaimed Alice, who had not attended to this
last remark, `it's a vegetable.  It doesn't look like one, but it
is.'

  `I quite agree with you,' said the Duchess; `and the moral of
that is--"Be what you would seem to be"--or if you'd like it put
more simply--"Never imagine yourself not to be otherwise than
what it might appear to others that what you were or might have
been was not otherwise than what you had been would have appeared
to them to be otherwise."'

  `I think I should understand that better,' Alice said very
politely, `if I had it written down:  but I can't quite follow it
as you say it.'

  `That's nothing to what I could say if I chose,' the Duchess
replied, in a pleased tone.

  `Pray don't trouble yourself to say it any longer than that,'
said Alice.

  `Oh, don't talk about trouble!' said the Duchess.  `I make you
a present of everything I've said as yet.'

  `A cheap sort of present!' thought Alice.  `I'm glad they don't
give birthday presents like that!'  But she did not venture to
say it out loud.

  `Thinking again?' the Duchess asked, with another dig of her
sharp little chin.

  `I've a right to think,' said Alice sharply, for she was
beginning to feel a little worried.

  `Just about as much right,' said the Duchess, `as pigs have to
fly; and the m--'

  But here, to Alice's great surprise, the Duchess's voice died
away, even in the middle of her favourite word `moral,' and the
arm that was linked into hers began to tremble.  Alice looked up,
and there stood the Queen in front of them, with her arms folded,
frowning like a thunderstorm.

  `A fine day, your Majesty!' the Duchess began in a low, weak
voice.

  `Now, I give you fair warning,' shouted the Queen, stamping on
the ground as she spoke; `either you or your head must be off,
and that in about half no time!  Take your choice!'

  The Duchess took her choice, and was gone in a moment.

  `Let's go on with the game,' the Queen said to Alice; and Alice
was too much frightened to say a word, but slowly followed her
back to the croquet-ground.

  The other guests had taken advantage of the Queen's absence,
and were resting in the shade:  however, the moment they saw her,
they hurried back to the game, the Queen merely remarking that a
moment's delay would cost them their lives.

  All the time they were playing the Queen never left off
quarrelling with the other players, and shouting `Off with his
head!' or `Off with her head!'  Those whom she sentenced were
taken into custody by the soldiers, who of course had to leave
off being arches to do this, so that by the end of half an hour
or so there were no arches left, and all the players, except the
King, the Queen, and Alice, were in custody and under sentence of
execution.

  Then the Queen left off, quite out of breath, and said to
Alice, `Have you seen the Mock Turtle yet?'

  `No,' said Alice.  `I don't even know what a Mock Turtle is.'

  `It's the thing Mock Turtle Soup is made from,' said the Queen.

  `I never saw one, or heard of one,' said Alice.

  `Come on, then,' said the Queen, `and he shall tell you his
history,'

  As they walked off together, Alice heard the King say in a low
voice, to the company generally, `You are all pardoned.'  `Come,
THAT'S a good thing!' she said to herself, for she had felt quite
unhappy at the number of executions the Queen had ordered.

  They very soon came upon a Gryphon, lying fast asleep in the
sun.  (IF you don't know what a Gryphon is, look at the picture.)
`Up, lazy thing!' said the Queen, `and take this young lady to
see the Mock Turtle, and to hear his history.  I must go back and
see after some executions I have ordered'; and she walked off,
leaving Alice alone with the Gryphon.  Alice did not quite like
the look of the creature, but on the whole she thought it would
be quite as safe to stay with it as to go after that savage
Queen:  so she waited.

  The Gryphon sat up and rubbed its eyes:  then it watched the
Queen till she was out of sight:  then it chuckled.  `What fun!'
said the Gryphon, half to itself, half to Alice.

  `What IS the fun?' said Alice.

  `Why, SHE,' said the Gryphon.  `It's all her fancy, that:  they
never executes nobody, you know.  Come on!'

  `Everybody says "come on!" here,' thought Alice, as she went
slowly after it:  `I never was so ordered about in all my life,
never!'

  They had not gone far before they saw the Mock Turtle in the
distance, sitting sad and lonely on a little ledge of rock, and,
as they came nearer, Alice could hear him sighing as if his heart
would break.  She pitied him deeply.  `What is his sorrow?' she
asked the Gryphon, and the Gryphon answered, very nearly in the
same words as before, `It's all his fancy, that:  he hasn't got
no sorrow, you know.  Come on!'

  So they went up to the Mock Turtle, who looked at them with
large eyes full of tears, but said nothing.

  `This here young lady,' said the Gryphon, `she wants for to
know your history, she do.'

  `I'll tell it her,' said the Mock Turtle in a deep, hollow
tone:  `sit down, both of you, and don't speak a word till I've
finished.'

  So they sat down, and nobody spoke for some minutes.  Alice
thought to herself, `I don't see how he can EVEN finish, if he
doesn't begin.'  But she waited patiently.

  `Once,' said the Mock Turtle at last, with a deep sigh, `I was
a real Turtle.'

  These words were followed by a very long silence, broken only
by an occasional exclamation of `Hjckrrh!' from the Gryphon, and
the constant heavy sobbing of the Mock Turtle.  Alice was very
nearly getting up and saying, `Thank you, sir, for your
interesting story,' but she could not help thinking there MUST be
more to come, so she sat still and said nothing.

  `When we were little,' the Mock Turtle went on at last, more
calmly, though still sobbing a little now and then, `we went to
school in the sea.  The master was an old Turtle--we used to call
him Tortoise--'

  `Why did you call him Tortoise, if he wasn't one?' Alice asked.

  `We called him Tortoise because he taught us,' said the Mock
Turtle angrily:  `really you are very dull!'

  `You ought to be ashamed of yourself for asking such a simple
question,' added the Gryphon; and then they both sat silent and
looked at poor Alice, who felt ready to sink into the earth.  At
last the Gryphon said to the Mock Turtle, `Drive on, old fellow!
Don't be all day about it!' and he went on in these words:

  `Yes, we went to school in the sea, though you mayn't believe
it--'

  `I never said I didn't!' interrupted Alice.

  `You did,' said the Mock Turtle.

  `Hold your tongue!' added the Gryphon, before Alice could speak
again.  The Mock Turtle went on.

  `We had the best of educations--in fact, we went to school
every day--'

  `I'VE been to a day-school, too,' said Alice; `you needn't be
so proud as all that.'

  `With extras?' asked the Mock Turtle a little anxiously.

  `Yes,' said Alice, `we learned French and music.'

  `And washing?' said the Mock Turtle.

  `Certainly not!' said Alice indignantly.

  `Ah! then yours wasn't a really good school,' said the Mock
Turtle in a tone of great relief.  `Now at OURS they had at the
end of the bill, "French, music, AND WASHING--extra."'

  `You couldn't have wanted it much,' said Alice; `living at the
bottom of the sea.'

  `I couldn't afford to learn it.' said the Mock Turtle with a
sigh.  `I only took the regular course.'

  `What was that?' inquired Alice.

  `Reeling and Writhing, of course, to begin with,' the Mock
Turtle replied; `and then the different branches of Arithmetic--
Ambition, Distraction, Uglification, and Derision.'

  `I never heard of "Uglification,"' Alice ventured to say.  `What
is it?'

  The Gryphon lifted up both its paws in surprise.  `What!  Never
heard of uglifying!' it exclaimed.  `You know what to beautify
is, I suppose?'

  `Yes,' said Alice doubtfully:  `it means--to--make--anything--
prettier.'

  `Well, then,' the Gryphon went on, `if you don't know what to
uglify is, you ARE a simpleton.'

  Alice did not feel encouraged to ask any more questions about
it, so she turned to the Mock Turtle, and said `What else had you
to learn?'

  `Well, there was Mystery,' the Mock Turtle replied, counting
off the subjects on his flappers, `--Mystery, ancient and modern,
with Seaography:  then Drawling--the Drawling-master was an old
conger-eel, that used to come once a week:  HE taught us
Drawling, Stretching, and Fainting in Coils.'

  `What was THAT like?' said Alice.

  `Well, I can't show it you myself,' the Mock Turtle said:  `I'm
too stiff.  And the Gryphon never learnt it.'

  `Hadn't time,' said the Gryphon:  `I went to the Classics
master, though.  He was an old crab, HE was.'

  `I never went to him,' the Mock Turtle said with a sigh:  `he
taught Laughing and Grief, they used to say.'

  `So he did, so he did,' said the Gryphon, sighing in his turn;
and both creatures hid their faces in their paws.

  `And how many hours a day did you do lessons?' said Alice, in a
hurry to change the subject.

  `Ten hours the first day,' said the Mock Turtle: `nine the
next, and so on.'

  `What a curious plan!' exclaimed Alice.

  `That's the reason they're called lessons,' the Gryphon
remarked:  `because they lessen from day to day.'

  This was quite a new idea to Alice, and she thought it over a
little before she made her next remark.  `Then the eleventh day
must have been a holiday?'

  `Of course it was,' said the Mock Turtle.

  `And how did you manage on the twelfth?' Alice went on eagerly.

  `That's enough about lessons,' the Gryphon interrupted in a
very decided tone:  `tell her something about the games now.'



                            CHAPTER X

                      The Lobster Quadrille


  The Mock Turtle sighed deeply, and drew the back of one flapper
across his eyes.  He looked at Alice, and tried to speak, but for
a minute or two sobs choked his voice.  `Same as if he had a bone
in his throat,' said the Gryphon:  and it set to work shaking him
and punching him in the back.  At last the Mock Turtle recovered
his voice, and, with tears running down his cheeks, he went on
again:--

  `You may not have lived much under the sea--' (`I haven't,'
said Alice)--`and perhaps you were never even introduced to a lobster--'
(Alice began to say `I once tasted--' but checked herself hastily,
and said `No, never') `--so you can have no idea what a delightful
thing a Lobster Quadrille is!'

  `No, indeed,' said Alice.  `What sort of a dance is it?'

  `Why,' said the Gryphon, `you first form into a line along the
sea-shore--'

  `Two lines!' cried the Mock Turtle.  `Seals, turtles, salmon,
and so on; then, when you've cleared all the jelly-fish out of
the way--'

  `THAT generally takes some time,' interrupted the Gryphon.

  `--you advance twice--'

  `Each with a lobster as a partner!' cried the Gryphon.

  `Of course,' the Mock Turtle said:  `advance twice, set to
partners--'

  `--change lobsters, and retire in same order,' continued the
Gryphon.

  `Then, you know,' the Mock Turtle went on, `you throw the--'

  `The lobsters!' shouted the Gryphon, with a bound into the air.

  `--as far out to sea as you can--'

  `Swim after them!' screamed the Gryphon.

  `Turn a somersault in the sea!' cried the Mock Turtle,
capering wildly about.

  `Back to land again, and that's all the first figure,' said the
Mock Turtle, suddenly dropping his voice; and the two creatures,
who had been jumping about like mad things all this time, sat
down again very sadly and quietly, and looked at Alice.

  `It must be a very pretty dance,' said Alice timidly.

  `Would you like to see a little of it?' said the Mock Turtle.

  `Very much indeed,' said Alice.

  `Come, let's try the first figure!' said the Mock Turtle to the
Gryphon.  `We can do without lobsters, you know.  Which shall
sing?'

  `Oh, YOU sing,' said the Gryphon.  `I've forgotten the words.'

  So they began solemnly dancing round and round Alice, every now
and then treading on her toes when they passed too close, and
waving their forepaws to mark the time, while the Mock Turtle
sang this, very slowly and sadly:--


`"Will you walk a little faster?" said a whiting to a snail.
"There's a porpoise close behind us, and he's treading on my
 tail.
See how eagerly the lobsters and the turtles all advance!
They are waiting on the shingle--will you come and join the
dance?

Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, will you join the
dance?
Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, won't you join the
dance?


"You can really have no notion how delightful it will be
When they take us up and throw us, with the lobsters, out to
                                                      sea!"
But the snail replied "Too far, too far!" and gave a look
                                                       askance--
Said he thanked the whiting kindly, but he would not join the
   dance.
    Would not, could not, would not, could not, would not join
        the dance.
    Would not, could not, would not, could not, could not join
        the dance.

`"What matters it how far we go?" his scaly friend replied.
"There is another shore, you know, upon the other side.
The further off from England the nearer is to France--
Then turn not pale, beloved snail, but come and join the dance.

    Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, will you join the
         dance?
    Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, won't you join the
         dance?"'



  `Thank you, it's a very interesting dance to watch,' said
Alice, feeling very glad that it was over at last:  `and I do so
like that curious song about the whiting!'

  `Oh, as to the whiting,' said the Mock Turtle, `they--you've
seen them, of course?'

  `Yes,' said Alice, `I've often seen them at dinn--' she
checked herself hastily.

  `I don't know where Dinn may be,' said the Mock Turtle, `but
if you've seen them so often, of course you know what they're
like.'

  `I believe so,' Alice replied thoughtfully.  `They have their
tails in their mouths--and they're all over crumbs.'

  `You're wrong about the crumbs,' said the Mock Turtle:
`crumbs would all wash off in the sea.  But they HAVE their tails
in their mouths; and the reason is--' here the Mock Turtle
yawned and shut his eyes.--`Tell her about the reason and all
that,' he said to the Gryphon.

  `The reason is,' said the Gryphon, `that they WOULD go with
the lobsters to the dance.  So they got thrown out to sea.  So
they had to fall a long way.  So they got their tails fast in
their mouths.  So they couldn't get them out again.  That's all.'

  `Thank you,' said Alice, `it's very interesting.  I never knew
so much about a whiting before.'

  `I can tell you more than that, if you like,' said the
Gryphon.  `Do you know why it's called a whiting?'

  `I never thought about it,' said Alice.  `Why?'

  `IT DOES THE BOOTS AND SHOES.' the Gryphon replied very
solemnly.

  Alice was thoroughly puzzled.  `Does the boots and shoes!' she
repeated in a wondering tone.

  `Why, what are YOUR shoes done with?' said the Gryphon.  `I
mean, what makes them so shiny?'

  Alice looked down at them, and considered a little before she
gave her answer.  `They're done with blacking, I believe.'

  `Boots and shoes under the sea,' the Gryphon went on in a deep
voice, `are done with a whiting.  Now you know.'

  `And what are they made of?' Alice asked in a tone of great
curiosity.

  `Soles and eels, of course,' the Gryphon replied rather
impatiently:  `any shrimp could have told you that.'

  `If I'd been the whiting,' said Alice, whose thoughts were
still running on the song, `I'd have said to the porpoise, "Keep
back, please:  we don't want YOU with us!"'

  `They were obliged to have him with them,' the Mock Turtle
said:  `no wise fish would go anywhere without a porpoise.'

  `Wouldn't it really?' said Alice in a tone of great surprise.

  `Of course not,' said the Mock Turtle:  `why, if a fish came
to ME, and told me he was going a journey, I should say "With
what porpoise?"'

  `Don't you mean "purpose"?' said Alice.

  `I mean what I say,' the Mock Turtle replied in an offended
tone.  And the Gryphon added `Come, let's hear some of YOUR
adventures.'

  `I could tell you my adventures--beginning from this morning,'
said Alice a little timidly:  `but it's no use going back to
yesterday, because I was a different person then.'

  `Explain all that,' said the Mock Turtle.

  `No, no!  The adventures first,' said the Gryphon in an
impatient tone:  `explanations take such a dreadful time.'

  So Alice began telling them her adventures from the time when
she first saw the White Rabbit.  She was a little nervous about
it just at first, the two creatures got so close to her, one on
each side, and opened their eyes and mouths so VERY wide, but she
gained courage as she went on.  Her listeners were perfectly
quiet till she got to the part about her repeating `YOU ARE OLD,
FATHER WILLIAM,' to the Caterpillar, and the words all coming
different, and then the Mock Turtle drew a long breath, and said
`That's very curious.'

  `It's all about as curious as it can be,' said the Gryphon.

  `It all came different!' the Mock Turtle repeated
thoughtfully.  `I should like to hear her try and repeat
something now.  Tell her to begin.'  He looked at the Gryphon as
if he thought it had some kind of authority over Alice.

  `Stand up and repeat "'TIS THE VOICE OF THE SLUGGARD,"' said
the Gryphon.

  `How the creatures order one about, and make one repeat
lessons!' thought Alice; `I might as well be at school at once.'
However, she got up, and began to repeat it, but her head was so
full of the Lobster Quadrille, that she hardly knew what she was
saying, and the words came very queer indeed:--

    `'Tis the voice of the Lobster; I heard him declare,
    "You have baked me too brown, I must sugar my hair."
    As a duck with its eyelids, so he with his nose
    Trims his belt and his buttons, and turns out his toes.'

              [later editions continued as follows
    When the sands are all dry, he is gay as a lark,
    And will talk in contemptuous tones of the Shark,
    But, when the tide rises and sharks are around,
    His voice has a timid and tremulous sound.]

  `That's different from what I used to say when I was a child,'
said the Gryphon.

  `Well, I never heard it before,' said the Mock Turtle; `but it
sounds uncommon nonsense.'

  Alice said nothing; she had sat down with her face in her
hands, wondering if anything would EVER happen in a natural way
again.

  `I should like to have it explained,' said the Mock Turtle.

  `She can't explain it,' said the Gryphon hastily.  `Go on with
the next verse.'

  `But about his toes?' the Mock Turtle persisted.  `How COULD
he turn them out with his nose, you know?'

  `It's the first position in dancing.' Alice said; but was
dreadfully puzzled by the whole thing, and longed to change the
subject.

  `Go on with the next verse,' the Gryphon repeated impatiently:
`it begins "I passed by his garden."'

  Alice did not dare to disobey, though she felt sure it would
all come wrong, and she went on in a trembling voice:--

    `I passed by his garden, and marked, with one eye,
    How the Owl and the Panther were sharing a pie--'

        [later editions continued as follows
    The Panther took pie-crust, and gravy, and meat,
    While the Owl had the dish as its share of the treat.
    When the pie was all finished, the Owl, as a boon,
    Was kindly permitted to pocket the spoon:
    While the Panther received knife and fork with a growl,
    And concluded the banquet--]

  `What IS the use of repeating all that stuff,' the Mock Turtle
interrupted, `if you don't explain it as you go on?  It's by far
the most confusing thing I ever heard!'

  `Yes, I think you'd better leave off,' said the Gryphon:  and
Alice was only too glad to do so.

  `Shall we try another figure of the Lobster Quadrille?' the
Gryphon went on.  `Or would you like the Mock Turtle to sing you
a song?'

  `Oh, a song, please, if the Mock Turtle would be so kind,'
Alice replied, so eagerly that the Gryphon said, in a rather
offended tone, `Hm! No accounting for tastes!  Sing her "Turtle
Soup," will you, old fellow?'

  The Mock Turtle sighed deeply, and began, in a voice sometimes
choked with sobs, to sing this:--


    `Beautiful Soup, so rich and green,
    Waiting in a hot tureen!
    Who for such dainties would not stoop?
    Soup of the evening, beautiful Soup!
    Soup of the evening, beautiful Soup!
        Beau--ootiful Soo--oop!
        Beau--ootiful Soo--oop!
    Soo--oop of the e--e--evening,
        Beautiful, beautiful Soup!

    `Beautiful Soup!  Who cares for fish,
    Game, or any other dish?
    Who would not give all else for two p
    ennyworth only of beautiful Soup?
    Pennyworth only of beautiful Soup?
        Beau--ootiful Soo--oop!
        Beau--ootiful Soo--oop!
    Soo--oop of the e--e--evening,
        Beautiful, beauti--FUL SOUP!'

  `Chorus again!' cried the Gryphon, and the Mock Turtle had
just begun to repeat it, when a cry of `The trial's beginning!'
was heard in the distance.

  `Come on!' cried the Gryphon, and, taking Alice by the hand,
it hurried off, without waiting for the end of the song.

  `What trial is it?' Alice panted as she ran; but the Gryphon
only answered `Come on!' and ran the faster, while more and more
faintly came, carried on the breeze that followed them, the
melancholy words:--

    `Soo--oop of the e--e--evening,
        Beautiful, beautiful Soup!'



                           CHAPTER XI

                      Who Stole the Tarts?


  The King and Queen of Hearts were seated on their throne when
they arrived, with a great crowd assembled about them--all sorts
of little birds and beasts, as well as the whole pack of cards:
the Knave was standing before them, in chains, with a soldier on
each side to guard him; and near the King was the White Rabbit,
with a trumpet in one hand, and a scroll of parchment in the
other.  In the very middle of the court was a table, with a large
dish of tarts upon it:  they looked so good, that it made Alice
quite hungry to look at them--`I wish they'd get the trial done,'
she thought, `and hand round the refreshments!'  But there seemed
to be no chance of this, so she began looking at everything about
her, to pass away the time.

  Alice had never been in a court of justice before, but she had
read about them in books, and she was quite pleased to find that
she knew the name of nearly everything there.  `That's the
judge,' she said to herself, `because of his great wig.'

  The judge, by the way, was the King; and as he wore his crown
over the wig, (look at the frontispiece if you want to see how he
did it,) he did not look at all comfortable, and it was certainly
not becoming.

  `And that's the jury-box,' thought Alice, `and those twelve
creatures,' (she was obliged to say `creatures,' you see, because
some of them were animals, and some were birds,) `I suppose they
are the jurors.'  She said this last word two or three times over
to herself, being rather proud of it:  for she thought, and
rightly too, that very few little girls of her age knew the
meaning of it at all.  However, `jury-men' would have done just
as well.

  The twelve jurors were all writing very busily on slates.
`What are they doing?'  Alice whispered to the Gryphon.  `They
can't have anything to put down yet, before the trial's begun.'

  `They're putting down their names,' the Gryphon whispered in
reply, `for fear they should forget them before the end of the
trial.'

  `Stupid things!' Alice began in a loud, indignant voice, but
she stopped hastily, for the White Rabbit cried out, `Silence in
the court!' and the King put on his spectacles and looked
anxiously round, to make out who was talking.

  Alice could see, as well as if she were looking over their
shoulders, that all the jurors were writing down `stupid things!'
on their slates, and she could even make out that one of them
didn't know how to spell `stupid,' and that he had to ask his
neighbour to tell him.  `A nice muddle their slates'll be in
before the trial's over!' thought Alice.

  One of the jurors had a pencil that squeaked.  This of course,
Alice could not stand, and she went round the court and got
behind him, and very soon found an opportunity of taking it
away.  She did it so quickly that the poor little juror (it was
Bill, the Lizard) could not make out at all what had become of
it; so, after hunting all about for it, he was obliged to write
with one finger for the rest of the day; and this was of very
little use, as it left no mark on the slate.

  `Herald, read the accusation!' said the King.

  On this the White Rabbit blew three blasts on the trumpet, and
then unrolled the parchment scroll, and read as follows:--

    `The Queen of Hearts, she made some tarts,
          All on a summer day:
      The Knave of Hearts, he stole those tarts,
          And took them quite away!'

  `Consider your verdict,' the King said to the jury.

  `Not yet, not yet!' the Rabbit hastily interrupted.  `There's
a great deal to come before that!'

  `Call the first witness,' said the King; and the White Rabbit
blew three blasts on the trumpet, and called out, `First
witness!'

  The first witness was the Hatter.  He came in with a teacup in
one hand and a piece of bread-and-butter in the other.  `I beg
pardon, your Majesty,' he began, `for bringing these in:  but I
hadn't quite finished my tea when I was sent for.'

  `You ought to have finished,' said the King.  `When did you
begin?'

  The Hatter looked at the March Hare, who had followed him into
the court, arm-in-arm with the Dormouse.  `Fourteenth of March, I
think it was,' he said.

  `Fifteenth,' said the March Hare.

  `Sixteenth,' added the Dormouse.

  `Write that down,' the King said to the jury, and the jury
eagerly wrote down all three dates on their slates, and then
added them up, and reduced the answer to shillings and pence.

  `Take off your hat,' the King said to the Hatter.

  `It isn't mine,' said the Hatter.

  `Stolen!' the King exclaimed, turning to the jury, who
instantly made a memorandum of the fact.

  `I keep them to sell,' the Hatter added as an explanation;
`I've none of my own.  I'm a hatter.'

  Here the Queen put on her spectacles, and began staring at the
Hatter, who turned pale and fidgeted.

  `Give your evidence,' said the King; `and don't be nervous, or
I'll have you executed on the spot.'

  This did not seem to encourage the witness at all:  he kept
shifting from one foot to the other, looking uneasily at the
Queen, and in his confusion he bit a large piece out of his
teacup instead of the bread-and-butter.

  Just at this moment Alice felt a very curious sensation, which
puzzled her a good deal until she made out what it was:  she was
beginning to grow larger again, and she thought at first she
would get up and leave the court; but on second thoughts she
decided to remain where she was as long as there was room for
her.

  `I wish you wouldn't squeeze so.' said the Dormouse, who was
sitting next to her.  `I can hardly breathe.'

  `I can't help it,' said Alice very meekly:  `I'm growing.'

  `You've no right to grow here,' said the Dormouse.

  `Don't talk nonsense,' said Alice more boldly:  `you know
you're growing too.'

  `Yes, but I grow at a reasonable pace,' said the Dormouse:
`not in that ridiculous fashion.'  And he got up very sulkily
and crossed over to the other side of the court.

  All this time the Queen had never left off staring at the
Hatter, and, just as the Dormouse crossed the court, she said to
one of the officers of the court, `Bring me the list of the
singers in the last concert!' on which the wretched Hatter
trembled so, that he shook both his shoes off.

  `Give your evidence,' the King repeated angrily, `or I'll have
you executed, whether you're nervous or not.'

  `I'm a poor man, your Majesty,' the Hatter began, in a
trembling voice, `--and I hadn't begun my tea--not above a week
or so--and what with the bread-and-butter getting so thin--and
the twinkling of the tea--'

  `The twinkling of the what?' said the King.

  `It began with the tea,' the Hatter replied.

  `Of course twinkling begins with a T!' said the King sharply.
`Do you take me for a dunce?  Go on!'

  `I'm a poor man,' the Hatter went on, `and most things
twinkled after that--only the March Hare said--'

  `I didn't!' the March Hare interrupted in a great hurry.

  `You did!' said the Hatter.

  `I deny it!' said the March Hare.

  `He denies it,' said the King:  `leave out that part.'

  `Well, at any rate, the Dormouse said--' the Hatter went on,
looking anxiously round to see if he would deny it too:  but the
Dormouse denied nothing, being fast asleep.

  `After that,' continued the Hatter, `I cut some more bread-
and-butter--'

  `But what did the Dormouse say?' one of the jury asked.

  `That I can't remember,' said the Hatter.

  `You MUST remember,' remarked the King, `or I'll have you
executed.'

  The miserable Hatter dropped his teacup and bread-and-butter,
and went down on one knee.  `I'm a poor man, your Majesty,' he
began.

  `You're a very poor speaker,' said the King.

  Here one of the guinea-pigs cheered, and was immediately
suppressed by the officers of the court.  (As that is rather a
hard word, I will just explain to you how it was done.  They had
a large canvas bag, which tied up at the mouth with strings:
into this they slipped the guinea-pig, head first, and then sat
upon it.)

  `I'm glad I've seen that done,' thought Alice.  `I've so often
read in the newspapers, at the end of trials, "There was some
attempts at applause, which was immediately suppressed by the
officers of the court," and I never understood what it meant
till now.'

  `If that's all you know about it, you may stand down,'
continued the King.

  `I can't go no lower,' said the Hatter:  `I'm on the floor, as
it is.'

  `Then you may SIT down,' the King replied.

  Here the other guinea-pig cheered, and was suppressed.

  `Come, that finished the guinea-pigs!' thought Alice.  `Now we
shall get on better.'

  `I'd rather finish my tea,' said the Hatter, with an anxious
look at the Queen, who was reading the list of singers.

  `You may go,' said the King, and the Hatter hurriedly left the
court, without even waiting to put his shoes on.

  `--and just take his head off outside,' the Queen added to one
of the officers:  but the Hatter was out of sight before the
officer could get to the door.

  `Call the next witness!' said the King.

  The next witness was the Duchess's cook.  She carried the
pepper-box in her hand, and Alice guessed who it was, even before
she got into the court, by the way the people near the door began
sneezing all at once.

  `Give your evidence,' said the King.

  `Shan't,' said the cook.

  The King looked anxiously at the White Rabbit, who said in a
low voice, `Your Majesty must cross-examine THIS witness.'

  `Well, if I must, I must,' the King said, with a melancholy
air, and, after folding his arms and frowning at the cook till
his eyes were nearly out of sight, he said in a deep voice, `What
are tarts made of?'

  `Pepper, mostly,' said the cook.

  `Treacle,' said a sleepy voice behind her.

  `Collar that Dormouse,' the Queen shrieked out.  `Behead that
Dormouse!  Turn that Dormouse out of court!  Suppress him!  Pinch
him!  Off with his whiskers!'

  For some minutes the whole court was in confusion, getting the
Dormouse turned out, and, by the time they had settled down
again, the cook had disappeared.

  `Never mind!' said the King, with an air of great relief.
`Call the next witness.'  And he added in an undertone to the
Queen, `Really, my dear, YOU must cross-examine the next witness.
It quite makes my forehead ache!'

  Alice watched the White Rabbit as he fumbled over the list,
feeling very curious to see what the next witness would be like,
`--for they haven't got much evidence YET,' she said to herself.
Imagine her surprise, when the White Rabbit read out, at the top
of his shrill little voice, the name `Alice!'



                           CHAPTER XII

                        Alice's Evidence


  `Here!' cried Alice, quite forgetting in the flurry of the
moment how large she had grown in the last few minutes, and she
jumped up in such a hurry that she tipped over the jury-box with
the edge of her skirt, upsetting all the jurymen on to the heads
of the crowd below, and there they lay sprawling about, reminding
her very much of a globe of goldfish she had accidentally upset
the week before.

  `Oh, I BEG your pardon!' she exclaimed in a tone of great
dismay, and began picking them up again as quickly as she could,
for the accident of the goldfish kept running in her head, and
she had a vague sort of idea that they must be collected at once
and put back into the jury-box, or they would die.

  `The trial cannot proceed,' said the King in a very grave
voice, `until all the jurymen are back in their proper places--
ALL,' he repeated with great emphasis, looking hard at Alice as
he said do.

  Alice looked at the jury-box, and saw that, in her haste, she
had put the Lizard in head downwards, and the poor little thing
was waving its tail about in a melancholy way, being quite unable
to move.  She soon got it out again, and put it right; `not that
it signifies much,' she said to herself; `I should think it
would be QUITE as much use in the trial one way up as the other.'

  As soon as the jury had a little recovered from the shock of
being upset, and their slates and pencils had been found and
handed back to them, they set to work very diligently to write
out a history of the accident, all except the Lizard, who seemed
too much overcome to do anything but sit with its mouth open,
gazing up into the roof of the court.

  `What do you know about this business?' the King said to
Alice.

  `Nothing,' said Alice.

  `Nothing WHATEVER?' persisted the King.

  `Nothing whatever,' said Alice.

  `That's very important,' the King said, turning to the jury.
They were just beginning to write this down on their slates, when
the White Rabbit interrupted:  `UNimportant, your Majesty means,
of course,' he said in a very respectful tone, but frowning and
making faces at him as he spoke.

  `UNimportant, of course, I meant,' the King hastily said, and
went on to himself in an undertone, `important--unimportant--
unimportant--important--' as if he were trying which word
sounded best.

  Some of the jury wrote it down `important,' and some
`unimportant.'  Alice could see this, as she was near enough to
look over their slates; `but it doesn't matter a bit,' she
thought to herself.

  At this moment the King, who had been for some time busily
writing in his note-book, cackled out `Silence!' and read out
from his book, `Rule Forty-two.  ALL PERSONS MORE THAN A MILE
HIGH TO LEAVE THE COURT.'

  Everybody looked at Alice.

  `I'M not a mile high,' said Alice.

  `You are,' said the King.

  `Nearly two miles high,' added the Queen.

  `Well, I shan't go, at any rate,' said Alice:  `besides,
that's not a regular rule:  you invented it just now.'

  `It's the oldest rule in the book,' said the King.

  `Then it ought to be Number One,' said Alice.

  The King turned pale, and shut his note-book hastily.
`Consider your verdict,' he said to the jury, in a low, trembling
voice.

  `There's more evidence to come yet, please your Majesty,' said
the White Rabbit, jumping up in a great hurry; `this paper has
just been picked up.'

  `What's in it?' said the Queen.

  `I haven't opened it yet,' said the White Rabbit, `but it seems
to be a letter, written by the prisoner to--to somebody.'

  `It must have been that,' said the King, `unless it was
written to nobody, which isn't usual, you know.'

  `Who is it directed to?' said one of the jurymen.

  `It isn't directed at all,' said the White Rabbit; `in fact,
there's nothing written on the OUTSIDE.'  He unfolded the paper
as he spoke, and added `It isn't a letter, after all:  it's a set
of verses.'

  `Are they in the prisoner's handwriting?' asked another of
they jurymen.

  `No, they're not,' said the White Rabbit, `and that's the
queerest thing about it.'  (The jury all looked puzzled.)

  `He must have imitated somebody else's hand,' said the King.
(The jury all brightened up again.)

  `Please your Majesty,' said the Knave, `I didn't write it, and
they can't prove I did:  there's no name signed at the end.'

  `If you didn't sign it,' said the King, `that only makes the
matter worse.  You MUST have meant some mischief, or else you'd
have signed your name like an honest man.'

  There was a general clapping of hands at this:  it was the
first really clever thing the King had said that day.

  `That PROVES his guilt,' said the Queen.

  `It proves nothing of the sort!' said Alice.  `Why, you don't
even know what they're about!'

  `Read them,' said the King.

  The White Rabbit put on his spectacles.  `Where shall I begin,
please your Majesty?' he asked.

  `Begin at the beginning,' the King said gravely, `and go on
till you come to the end:  then stop.'

  These were the verses the White Rabbit read:--

        `They told me you had been to her,
          And mentioned me to him:
        She gave me a good character,
          But said I could not swim.

        He sent them word I had not gone
          (We know it to be true):
        If she should push the matter on,
          What would become of you?

        I gave her one, they gave him two,
          You gave us three or more;
        They all returned from him to you,
          Though they were mine before.

        If I or she should chance to be
          Involved in this affair,
        He trusts to you to set them free,
          Exactly as we were.

        My notion was that you had been
          (Before she had this fit)
        An obstacle that came between
          Him, and ourselves, and it.

        Don't let him know she liked them best,
          For this must ever be
        A secret, kept from all the rest,
          Between yourself and me.'

  `That's the most important piece of evidence we've heard yet,'
said the King, rubbing his hands; `so now let the jury--'

  `If any one of them can explain it,' said Alice, (she had
grown so large in the last few minutes that she wasn't a bit
afraid of interrupting him,) `I'll give him sixpence.  _I_ don't
believe there's an atom of meaning in it.'

  The jury all wrote down on their slates, `SHE doesn't believe
there's an atom of meaning in it,' but none of them attempted to
explain the paper.

  `If there's no meaning in it,' said the King, `that saves a
world of trouble, you know, as we needn't try to find any.  And
yet I don't know,' he went on, spreading out the verses on his
knee, and looking at them with one eye; `I seem to see some
meaning in them, after all.  "--SAID I COULD NOT SWIM--" you
can't swim, can you?' he added, turning to the Knave.

  The Knave shook his head sadly.  `Do I look like it?' he said.
(Which he certainly did NOT, being made entirely of cardboard.)

  `All right, so far,' said the King, and he went on muttering
over the verses to himself:  `"WE KNOW IT TO BE TRUE--" that's
the jury, of course-- "I GAVE HER ONE, THEY GAVE HIM TWO--" why,
that must be what he did with the tarts, you know--'

  `But, it goes on "THEY ALL RETURNED FROM HIM TO YOU,"' said
Alice.

  `Why, there they are!' said the King triumphantly, pointing to
the tarts on the table.  `Nothing can be clearer than THAT.
Then again--"BEFORE SHE HAD THIS FIT--"  you never had fits, my
dear, I think?' he said to the Queen.

  `Never!' said the Queen furiously, throwing an inkstand at the
Lizard as she spoke.  (The unfortunate little Bill had left off
writing on his slate with one finger, as he found it made no
mark; but he now hastily began again, using the ink, that was
trickling down his face, as long as it lasted.)

  `Then the words don't FIT you,' said the King, looking round
the court with a smile.  There was a dead silence.

  `It's a pun!' the King added in an offended tone, and
everybody laughed, `Let the jury consider their verdict,' the
King said, for about the twentieth time that day.

  `No, no!' said the Queen.  `Sentence first--verdict afterwards.'

  `Stuff and nonsense!' said Alice loudly.  `The idea of having
the sentence first!'

  `Hold your tongue!' said the Queen, turning purple.

  `I won't!' said Alice.

  `Off with her head!' the Queen shouted at the top of her voice.
Nobody moved.

  `Who cares for you?' said Alice, (she had grown to her full
size by this time.)  `You're nothing but a pack of cards!'

  At this the whole pack rose up into the air, and came flying
down upon her:  she gave a little scream, half of fright and half
of anger, and tried to beat them off, and found herself lying on
the bank, with her head in the lap of her sister, who was gently
brushing away some dead leaves that had fluttered down from the
trees upon her face.

  `Wake up, Alice dear!' said her sister; `Why, what a long
sleep you've had!'

  `Oh, I've had such a curious dream!' said Alice, and she told
her sister, as well as she could remember them, all these strange
Adventures of hers that you have just been reading about; and
when she had finished, her sister kissed her, and said, `It WAS a
curious dream, dear, certainly:  but now run in to your tea; it's
getting late.'  So Alice got up and ran off, thinking while she
ran, as well she might, what a wonderful dream it had been.

  But her sister sat still just as she left her, leaning her
head on her hand, watching the setting sun, and thinking of
little Alice and all her wonderful Adventures, till she too began
dreaming after a fashion, and this was her dream:--

  First, she dreamed of little Alice herself, and once again the
tiny hands were clasped upon her knee, and the bright eager eyes
were looking up into hers--she could hear the very tones of her
voice, and see that queer little toss of her head to keep back
the wandering hair that WOULD always get into her eyes--and
still as she listened, or seemed to listen, the whole place
around her became alive the strange creatures of her little
sister's dream.

  The long grass rustled at her feet as the White Rabbit hurried
by--the frightened Mouse splashed his way through the
neighbouring pool--she could hear the rattle of the teacups as
the March Hare and his friends shared their never-ending meal,
and the shrill voice of the Queen ordering off her unfortunate
guests to execution--once more the pig-baby was sneezing on the
Duchess's knee, while plates and dishes crashed around it--once
more the shriek of the Gryphon, the squeaking of the Lizard's
slate-pencil, and the choking of the suppressed guinea-pigs,
filled the air, mixed up with the distant sobs of the miserable
Mock Turtle.

  So she sat on, with closed eyes, and half believed herself in
Wonderland, though she knew she had but to open them again, and
all would change to dull reality--the grass would be only
rustling in the wind, and the pool rippling to the waving of the
reeds--the rattling teacups would change to tinkling sheep-
bells, and the Queen's shrill cries to the voice of the shepherd
boy--and the sneeze of the baby, the shriek of the Gryphon, and
all thy other queer noises, would change (she knew) to the
confused clamour of the busy farm-yard--while the lowing of the
cattle in the distance would take the place of the Mock Turtle's
heavy sobs.

  Lastly, she pictured to herself how this same little sister of
hers would, in the after-time, be herself a grown woman; and how
she would keep, through all her riper years, the simple and
loving heart of her childhood:  and how she would gather about
her other little children, and make THEIR eyes bright and eager
with many a strange tale, perhaps even with the dream of
Wonderland of long ago:  and how she would feel with all their
simple sorrows, and find a pleasure in all their simple joys,
remembering her own child-life, and the happy summer days.

                             THE END
	AS YOU LIKE IT


	DRAMATIS PERSONAE


DUKE SENIOR	living in banishment.

DUKE FREDERICK	his brother, an usurper of his dominions.


AMIENS	|
	|  lords attending on the banished duke.
JAQUES	|


LE BEAU	a courtier attending upon Frederick.

CHARLES	wrestler to Frederick.


OLIVER		|
		|
JAQUES (JAQUES DE BOYS:)  	|  sons of Sir Rowland de Boys.
		|
ORLANDO		|


ADAM	|
	|  servants to Oliver.
DENNIS	|


TOUCHSTONE	a clown.

SIR OLIVER MARTEXT	a vicar.


CORIN	|
	|  shepherds.
SILVIUS	|


WILLIAM	a country fellow in love with Audrey.

	A person representing HYMEN. (HYMEN:)

ROSALIND	daughter to the banished duke.

CELIA	daughter to Frederick.

PHEBE	a shepherdess.

AUDREY	a country wench.

	Lords, pages, and attendants, &c.
	(Forester:)
	(A Lord:)
	(First Lord:)
	(Second Lord:)
	(First Page:)
	(Second Page:)


SCENE	Oliver's house; Duke Frederick's court; and the
	Forest of Arden.




	AS YOU LIKE IT


ACT I



SCENE I	Orchard of Oliver's house.


	[Enter ORLANDO and ADAM]

ORLANDO	As I remember, Adam, it was upon this fashion
	bequeathed me by will but poor a thousand crowns,
	and, as thou sayest, charged my brother, on his
	blessing, to breed me well: and there begins my
	sadness. My brother Jaques he keeps at school, and
	report speaks goldenly of his profit: for my part,
	he keeps me rustically at home, or, to speak more
	properly, stays me here at home unkept; for call you
	that keeping for a gentleman of my birth, that
	differs not from the stalling of an ox? His horses
	are bred better; for, besides that they are fair
	with their feeding, they are taught their manage,
	and to that end riders dearly hired: but I, his
	brother, gain nothing under him but growth; for the
	which his animals on his dunghills are as much
	bound to him as I. Besides this nothing that he so
	plentifully gives me, the something that nature gave
	me his countenance seems to take from me: he lets
	me feed with his hinds, bars me the place of a
	brother, and, as much as in him lies, mines my
	gentility with my education. This is it, Adam, that
	grieves me; and the spirit of my father, which I
	think is within me, begins to mutiny against this
	servitude: I will no longer endure it, though yet I
	know no wise remedy how to avoid it.

ADAM	Yonder comes my master, your brother.

ORLANDO	Go apart, Adam, and thou shalt hear how he will
	shake me up.

	[Enter OLIVER]

OLIVER	Now, sir! what make you here?

ORLANDO	Nothing: I am not taught to make any thing.

OLIVER	What mar you then, sir?

ORLANDO	Marry, sir, I am helping you to mar that which God
	made, a poor unworthy brother of yours, with idleness.

OLIVER	Marry, sir, be better employed, and be naught awhile.

ORLANDO	Shall I keep your hogs and eat husks with them?
	What prodigal portion have I spent, that I should
	come to such penury?

OLIVER	Know you where your are, sir?

ORLANDO	O, sir, very well; here in your orchard.

OLIVER	Know you before whom, sir?

ORLANDO	Ay, better than him I am before knows me. I know
	you are my eldest brother; and, in the gentle
	condition of blood, you should so know me. The
	courtesy of nations allows you my better, in that
	you are the first-born; but the same tradition
	takes not away my blood, were there twenty brothers
	betwixt us: I have as much of my father in me as
	you; albeit, I confess, your coming before me is
	nearer to his reverence.

OLIVER	What, boy!

ORLANDO	Come, come, elder brother, you are too young in this.

OLIVER	Wilt thou lay hands on me, villain?

ORLANDO	I am no villain; I am the youngest son of Sir
	Rowland de Boys; he was my father, and he is thrice
	a villain that says such a father begot villains.
	Wert thou not my brother, I would not take this hand
	from thy throat till this other had pulled out thy
	tongue for saying so: thou hast railed on thyself.

ADAM	Sweet masters, be patient: for your father's
	remembrance, be at accord.

OLIVER	Let me go, I say.

ORLANDO	I will not, till I please: you shall hear me. My
	father charged you in his will to give me good
	education: you have trained me like a peasant,
	obscuring and hiding from me all gentleman-like
	qualities. The spirit of my father grows strong in
	me, and I will no longer endure it: therefore allow
	me such exercises as may become a gentleman, or
	give me the poor allottery my father left me by
	testament; with that I will go buy my fortunes.

OLIVER	And what wilt thou do? beg, when that is spent?
	Well, sir, get you in: I will not long be troubled
	with you; you shall have some part of your will: I
	pray you, leave me.

ORLANDO	I will no further offend you than becomes me for my good.

OLIVER	Get you with him, you old dog.

ADAM	Is 'old dog' my reward? Most true, I have lost my
	teeth in your service. God be with my old master!
	he would not have spoke such a word.

	[Exeunt ORLANDO and ADAM]

OLIVER	Is it even so? begin you to grow upon me? I will
	physic your rankness, and yet give no thousand
	crowns neither. Holla, Dennis!

	[Enter DENNIS]

DENNIS	Calls your worship?

OLIVER	Was not Charles, the duke's wrestler, here to speak with me?

DENNIS	So please you, he is here at the door and importunes
	access to you.

OLIVER	Call him in.

	[Exit DENNIS]

	'Twill be a good way; and to-morrow the wrestling is.

	[Enter CHARLES]

CHARLES	Good morrow to your worship.

OLIVER	Good Monsieur Charles, what's the new news at the
	new court?

CHARLES	There's no news at the court, sir, but the old news:
	that is, the old duke is banished by his younger
	brother the new duke; and three or four loving lords
	have put themselves into voluntary exile with him,
	whose lands and revenues enrich the new duke;
	therefore he gives them good leave to wander.

OLIVER	Can you tell if Rosalind, the duke's daughter, be
	banished with her father?

CHARLES	O, no; for the duke's daughter, her cousin, so loves
	her, being ever from their cradles bred together,
	that she would have followed her exile, or have died
	to stay behind her. She is at the court, and no
	less beloved of her uncle than his own daughter; and
	never two ladies loved as they do.

OLIVER	Where will the old duke live?

CHARLES	They say he is already in the forest of Arden, and
	a many merry men with him; and there they live like
	the old Robin Hood of England: they say many young
	gentlemen flock to him every day, and fleet the time
	carelessly, as they did in the golden world.

OLIVER	What, you wrestle to-morrow before the new duke?

CHARLES	Marry, do I, sir; and I came to acquaint you with a
	matter. I am given, sir, secretly to understand
	that your younger brother Orlando hath a disposition
	to come in disguised against me to try a fall.
	To-morrow, sir, I wrestle for my credit; and he that
	escapes me without some broken limb shall acquit him
	well. Your brother is but young and tender; and,
	for your love, I would be loath to foil him, as I
	must, for my own honour, if he come in: therefore,
	out of my love to you, I came hither to acquaint you
	withal, that either you might stay him from his
	intendment or brook such disgrace well as he shall
	run into, in that it is a thing of his own search
	and altogether against my will.

OLIVER	Charles, I thank thee for thy love to me, which
	thou shalt find I will most kindly requite. I had
	myself notice of my brother's purpose herein and
	have by underhand means laboured to dissuade him from
	it, but he is resolute. I'll tell thee, Charles:
	it is the stubbornest young fellow of France, full
	of ambition, an envious emulator of every man's
	good parts, a secret and villanous contriver against
	me his natural brother: therefore use thy
	discretion; I had as lief thou didst break his neck
	as his finger. And thou wert best look to't; for if
	thou dost him any slight disgrace or if he do not
	mightily grace himself on thee, he will practise
	against thee by poison, entrap thee by some
	treacherous device and never leave thee till he
	hath ta'en thy life by some indirect means or other;
	for, I assure thee, and almost with tears I speak
	it, there is not one so young and so villanous this
	day living. I speak but brotherly of him; but
	should I anatomize him to thee as he is, I must
	blush and weep and thou must look pale and wonder.

CHARLES	I am heartily glad I came hither to you. If he come
	to-morrow, I'll give him his payment: if ever he go
	alone again, I'll never wrestle for prize more: and
	so God keep your worship!

OLIVER	Farewell, good Charles.

	[Exit CHARLES]

	Now will I stir this gamester: I hope I shall see
	an end of him; for my soul, yet I know not why,
	hates nothing more than he. Yet he's gentle, never
	schooled and yet learned, full of noble device, of
	all sorts enchantingly beloved, and indeed so much
	in the heart of the world, and especially of my own
	people, who best know him, that I am altogether
	misprised: but it shall not be so long; this
	wrestler shall clear all: nothing remains but that
	I kindle the boy thither; which now I'll go about.

	[Exit]




	AS YOU LIKE IT


ACT I



SCENE II	Lawn before the Duke's palace.


	[Enter CELIA and ROSALIND]

CELIA	I pray thee, Rosalind, sweet my coz, be merry.

ROSALIND	Dear Celia, I show more mirth than I am mistress of;
	and would you yet I were merrier? Unless you could
	teach me to forget a banished father, you must not
	learn me how to remember any extraordinary pleasure.

CELIA	Herein I see thou lovest me not with the full weight
	that I love thee. If my uncle, thy banished father,
	had banished thy uncle, the duke my father, so thou
	hadst been still with me, I could have taught my
	love to take thy father for mine: so wouldst thou,
	if the truth of thy love to me were so righteously
	tempered as mine is to thee.

ROSALIND	Well, I will forget the condition of my estate, to
	rejoice in yours.

CELIA	You know my father hath no child but I, nor none is
	like to have: and, truly, when he dies, thou shalt
	be his heir, for what he hath taken away from thy
	father perforce, I will render thee again in
	affection; by mine honour, I will; and when I break
	that oath, let me turn monster: therefore, my
	sweet Rose, my dear Rose, be merry.

ROSALIND	From henceforth I will, coz, and devise sports. Let
	me see; what think you of falling in love?

CELIA	Marry, I prithee, do, to make sport withal: but
	love no man in good earnest; nor no further in sport
	neither than with safety of a pure blush thou mayst
	in honour come off again.

ROSALIND	What shall be our sport, then?

CELIA	Let us sit and mock the good housewife Fortune from
	her wheel, that her gifts may henceforth be bestowed equally.

ROSALIND	I would we could do so, for her benefits are
	mightily misplaced, and the bountiful blind woman
	doth most mistake in her gifts to women.

CELIA	'Tis true; for those that she makes fair she scarce
	makes honest, and those that she makes honest she
	makes very ill-favouredly.

ROSALIND	Nay, now thou goest from Fortune's office to
	Nature's: Fortune reigns in gifts of the world,
	not in the lineaments of Nature.

	[Enter TOUCHSTONE]

CELIA	No? when Nature hath made a fair creature, may she
	not by Fortune fall into the fire? Though Nature
	hath given us wit to flout at Fortune, hath not
	Fortune sent in this fool to cut off the argument?

ROSALIND	Indeed, there is Fortune too hard for Nature, when
	Fortune makes Nature's natural the cutter-off of
	Nature's wit.

CELIA	Peradventure this is not Fortune's work neither, but
	Nature's; who perceiveth our natural wits too dull
	to reason of such goddesses and hath sent this
	natural for our whetstone; for always the dulness of
	the fool is the whetstone of the wits. How now,
	wit! whither wander you?

TOUCHSTONE	Mistress, you must come away to your father.

CELIA	Were you made the messenger?

TOUCHSTONE	No, by mine honour, but I was bid to come for you.

ROSALIND	Where learned you that oath, fool?

TOUCHSTONE	Of a certain knight that swore by his honour they
	were good pancakes and swore by his honour the
	mustard was naught: now I'll stand to it, the
	pancakes were naught and the mustard was good, and
	yet was not the knight forsworn.

CELIA	How prove you that, in the great heap of your
	knowledge?

ROSALIND	Ay, marry, now unmuzzle your wisdom.

TOUCHSTONE	Stand you both forth now: stroke your chins, and
	swear by your beards that I am a knave.

CELIA	By our beards, if we had them, thou art.

TOUCHSTONE	By my knavery, if I had it, then I were; but if you
	swear by that that is not, you are not forsworn: no
	more was this knight swearing by his honour, for he
	never had any; or if he had, he had sworn it away
	before ever he saw those pancakes or that mustard.

CELIA	Prithee, who is't that thou meanest?

TOUCHSTONE	One that old Frederick, your father, loves.

CELIA	My father's love is enough to honour him: enough!
	speak no more of him; you'll be whipped for taxation
	one of these days.

TOUCHSTONE	The more pity, that fools may not speak wisely what
	wise men do foolishly.

CELIA	By my troth, thou sayest true; for since the little
	wit that fools have was silenced, the little foolery
	that wise men have makes a great show. Here comes
	Monsieur Le Beau.

ROSALIND	With his mouth full of news.

CELIA	Which he will put on us, as pigeons feed their young.

ROSALIND	Then shall we be news-crammed.

CELIA	All the better; we shall be the more marketable.

	[Enter LE BEAU]

	Bon jour, Monsieur Le Beau: what's the news?

LE BEAU	Fair princess, you have lost much good sport.

CELIA	Sport! of what colour?

LE BEAU	What colour, madam! how shall I answer you?

ROSALIND	As wit and fortune will.

TOUCHSTONE	Or as the Destinies decree.

CELIA	Well said: that was laid on with a trowel.

TOUCHSTONE	Nay, if I keep not my rank,--

ROSALIND	Thou losest thy old smell.

LE BEAU	You amaze me, ladies: I would have told you of good
	wrestling, which you have lost the sight of.

ROSALIND	You tell us the manner of the wrestling.

LE BEAU	I will tell you the beginning; and, if it please
	your ladyships, you may see the end; for the best is
	yet to do; and here, where you are, they are coming
	to perform it.

CELIA	Well, the beginning, that is dead and buried.

LE BEAU	There comes an old man and his three sons,--

CELIA	I could match this beginning with an old tale.

LE BEAU	Three proper young men, of excellent growth and presence.

ROSALIND	With bills on their necks, 'Be it known unto all men
	by these presents.'

LE BEAU	The eldest of the three wrestled with Charles, the
	duke's wrestler; which Charles in a moment threw him
	and broke three of his ribs, that there is little
	hope of life in him: so he served the second, and
	so the third. Yonder they lie; the poor old man,
	their father, making such pitiful dole over them
	that all the beholders take his part with weeping.

ROSALIND	Alas!

TOUCHSTONE	But what is the sport, monsieur, that the ladies
	have lost?

LE BEAU	Why, this that I speak of.

TOUCHSTONE	Thus men may grow wiser every day: it is the first
	time that ever I heard breaking of ribs was sport
	for ladies.

CELIA	Or I, I promise thee.

ROSALIND	But is there any else longs to see this broken music
	in his sides? is there yet another dotes upon
	rib-breaking? Shall we see this wrestling, cousin?

LE BEAU	You must, if you stay here; for here is the place
	appointed for the wrestling, and they are ready to
	perform it.

CELIA	Yonder, sure, they are coming: let us now stay and see it.

	[Flourish. Enter DUKE FREDERICK, Lords, ORLANDO,
	CHARLES, and Attendants]

DUKE FREDERICK	Come on: since the youth will not be entreated, his
	own peril on his forwardness.

ROSALIND	Is yonder the man?

LE BEAU	Even he, madam.

CELIA	Alas, he is too young! yet he looks successfully.

DUKE FREDERICK	How now, daughter and cousin! are you crept hither
	to see the wrestling?

ROSALIND	Ay, my liege, so please you give us leave.

DUKE FREDERICK	You will take little delight in it, I can tell you;
	there is such odds in the man. In pity of the
	challenger's youth I would fain dissuade him, but he
	will not be entreated. Speak to him, ladies; see if
	you can move him.

CELIA	Call him hither, good Monsieur Le Beau.

DUKE FREDERICK	Do so: I'll not be by.

LE BEAU	Monsieur the challenger, the princesses call for you.

ORLANDO	I attend them with all respect and duty.

ROSALIND	Young man, have you challenged Charles the wrestler?

ORLANDO	No, fair princess; he is the general challenger: I
	come but in, as others do, to try with him the
	strength of my youth.

CELIA	Young gentleman, your spirits are too bold for your
	years. You have seen cruel proof of this man's
	strength: if you saw yourself with your eyes or
	knew yourself with your judgment, the fear of your
	adventure would counsel you to a more equal
	enterprise. We pray you, for your own sake, to
	embrace your own safety and give over this attempt.

ROSALIND	Do, young sir; your reputation shall not therefore
	be misprised: we will make it our suit to the duke
	that the wrestling might not go forward.

ORLANDO	I beseech you, punish me not with your hard
	thoughts; wherein I confess me much guilty, to deny
	so fair and excellent ladies any thing. But let
	your fair eyes and gentle wishes go with me to my
	trial: wherein if I be foiled, there is but one
	shamed that was never gracious; if killed, but one
	dead that was willing to be so: I shall do my
	friends no wrong, for I have none to lament me, the
	world no injury, for in it I have nothing; only in
	the world I fill up a place, which may be better
	supplied when I have made it empty.

ROSALIND	The little strength that I have, I would it were with you.

CELIA	And mine, to eke out hers.

ROSALIND	Fare you well: pray heaven I be deceived in you!

CELIA	Your heart's desires be with you!

CHARLES	Come, where is this young gallant that is so
	desirous to lie with his mother earth?

ORLANDO	Ready, sir; but his will hath in it a more modest working.

DUKE FREDERICK	You shall try but one fall.

CHARLES	No, I warrant your grace, you shall not entreat him
	to a second, that have so mightily persuaded him
	from a first.

ORLANDO	An you mean to mock me after, you should not have
	mocked me before: but come your ways.

ROSALIND	Now Hercules be thy speed, young man!

CELIA	I would I were invisible, to catch the strong
	fellow by the leg.

	[They wrestle]

ROSALIND	O excellent young man!

CELIA	If I had a thunderbolt in mine eye, I can tell who
	should down.

	[Shout. CHARLES is thrown]

DUKE FREDERICK	No more, no more.

ORLANDO	Yes, I beseech your grace: I am not yet well breathed.

DUKE FREDERICK	How dost thou, Charles?

LE BEAU	He cannot speak, my lord.

DUKE FREDERICK	Bear him away. What is thy name, young man?

ORLANDO	Orlando, my liege; the youngest son of Sir Rowland de Boys.

DUKE FREDERICK	I would thou hadst been son to some man else:
	The world esteem'd thy father honourable,
	But I did find him still mine enemy:
	Thou shouldst have better pleased me with this deed,
	Hadst thou descended from another house.
	But fare thee well; thou art a gallant youth:
	I would thou hadst told me of another father.

	[Exeunt DUKE FREDERICK, train, and LE BEAU]

CELIA	Were I my father, coz, would I do this?

ORLANDO	I am more proud to be Sir Rowland's son,
	His youngest son; and would not change that calling,
	To be adopted heir to Frederick.

ROSALIND	My father loved Sir Rowland as his soul,
	And all the world was of my father's mind:
	Had I before known this young man his son,
	I should have given him tears unto entreaties,
	Ere he should thus have ventured.

CELIA	Gentle cousin,
	Let us go thank him and encourage him:
	My father's rough and envious disposition
	Sticks me at heart. Sir, you have well deserved:
	If you do keep your promises in love
	But justly, as you have exceeded all promise,
	Your mistress shall be happy.

ROSALIND	Gentleman,

	[Giving him a chain from her neck]

	Wear this for me, one out of suits with fortune,
	That could give more, but that her hand lacks means.
	Shall we go, coz?

CELIA	                  Ay. Fare you well, fair gentleman.

ORLANDO	Can I not say, I thank you? My better parts
	Are all thrown down, and that which here stands up
	Is but a quintain, a mere lifeless block.

ROSALIND	He calls us back: my pride fell with my fortunes;
	I'll ask him what he would. Did you call, sir?
	Sir, you have wrestled well and overthrown
	More than your enemies.

CELIA	Will you go, coz?

ROSALIND	Have with you. Fare you well.

	[Exeunt ROSALIND and CELIA]

ORLANDO	What passion hangs these weights upon my tongue?
	I cannot speak to her, yet she urged conference.
	O poor Orlando, thou art overthrown!
	Or Charles or something weaker masters thee.

	[Re-enter LE BEAU]

LE BEAU	Good sir, I do in friendship counsel you
	To leave this place. Albeit you have deserved
	High commendation, true applause and love,
	Yet such is now the duke's condition
	That he misconstrues all that you have done.
	The duke is humorous; what he is indeed,
	More suits you to conceive than I to speak of.

ORLANDO	I thank you, sir: and, pray you, tell me this:
	Which of the two was daughter of the duke
	That here was at the wrestling?

LE BEAU	Neither his daughter, if we judge by manners;
	But yet indeed the lesser is his daughter
	The other is daughter to the banish'd duke,
	And here detain'd by her usurping uncle,
	To keep his daughter company; whose loves
	Are dearer than the natural bond of sisters.
	But I can tell you that of late this duke
	Hath ta'en displeasure 'gainst his gentle niece,
	Grounded upon no other argument
	But that the people praise her for her virtues
	And pity her for her good father's sake;
	And, on my life, his malice 'gainst the lady
	Will suddenly break forth. Sir, fare you well:
	Hereafter, in a better world than this,
	I shall desire more love and knowledge of you.

ORLANDO	I rest much bounden to you: fare you well.

	[Exit LE BEAU]

	Thus must I from the smoke into the smother;
	From tyrant duke unto a tyrant brother:
	But heavenly Rosalind!

	[Exit]




	AS YOU LIKE IT


ACT I



SCENE III	A room in the palace.


	[Enter CELIA and ROSALIND]

CELIA	Why, cousin! why, Rosalind! Cupid have mercy! not a word?

ROSALIND	Not one to throw at a dog.

CELIA	No, thy words are too precious to be cast away upon
	curs; throw some of them at me; come, lame me with reasons.

ROSALIND	Then there were two cousins laid up; when the one
	should be lamed with reasons and the other mad
	without any.

CELIA	But is all this for your father?

ROSALIND	No, some of it is for my child's father. O, how
	full of briers is this working-day world!

CELIA	They are but burs, cousin, thrown upon thee in
	holiday foolery: if we walk not in the trodden
	paths our very petticoats will catch them.

ROSALIND	I could shake them off my coat: these burs are in my heart.

CELIA	Hem them away.

ROSALIND	I would try, if I could cry 'hem' and have him.

CELIA	Come, come, wrestle with thy affections.

ROSALIND	O, they take the part of a better wrestler than myself!

CELIA	O, a good wish upon you! you will try in time, in
	despite of a fall. But, turning these jests out of
	service, let us talk in good earnest: is it
	possible, on such a sudden, you should fall into so
	strong a liking with old Sir Rowland's youngest son?

ROSALIND	The duke my father loved his father dearly.

CELIA	Doth it therefore ensue that you should love his son
	dearly? By this kind of chase, I should hate him,
	for my father hated his father dearly; yet I hate
	not Orlando.

ROSALIND	No, faith, hate him not, for my sake.

CELIA	Why should I not? doth he not deserve well?

ROSALIND	Let me love him for that, and do you love him
	because I do. Look, here comes the duke.

CELIA	With his eyes full of anger.

	[Enter DUKE FREDERICK, with Lords]

DUKE FREDERICK	Mistress, dispatch you with your safest haste
	And get you from our court.

ROSALIND	Me, uncle?

DUKE FREDERICK	You, cousin
	Within these ten days if that thou be'st found
	So near our public court as twenty miles,
	Thou diest for it.

ROSALIND	                  I do beseech your grace,
	Let me the knowledge of my fault bear with me:
	If with myself I hold intelligence
	Or have acquaintance with mine own desires,
	If that I do not dream or be not frantic,--
	As I do trust I am not--then, dear uncle,
	Never so much as in a thought unborn
	Did I offend your highness.

DUKE FREDERICK	Thus do all traitors:
	If their purgation did consist in words,
	They are as innocent as grace itself:
	Let it suffice thee that I trust thee not.

ROSALIND	Yet your mistrust cannot make me a traitor:
	Tell me whereon the likelihood depends.

DUKE FREDERICK	Thou art thy father's daughter; there's enough.

ROSALIND	So was I when your highness took his dukedom;
	So was I when your highness banish'd him:
	Treason is not inherited, my lord;
	Or, if we did derive it from our friends,
	What's that to me? my father was no traitor:
	Then, good my liege, mistake me not so much
	To think my poverty is treacherous.

CELIA	Dear sovereign, hear me speak.

DUKE FREDERICK	Ay, Celia; we stay'd her for your sake,
	Else had she with her father ranged along.

CELIA	I did not then entreat to have her stay;
	It was your pleasure and your own remorse:
	I was too young that time to value her;
	But now I know her: if she be a traitor,
	Why so am I; we still have slept together,
	Rose at an instant, learn'd, play'd, eat together,
	And wheresoever we went, like Juno's swans,
	Still we went coupled and inseparable.

DUKE FREDERICK	She is too subtle for thee; and her smoothness,
	Her very silence and her patience
	Speak to the people, and they pity her.
	Thou art a fool: she robs thee of thy name;
	And thou wilt show more bright and seem more virtuous
	When she is gone. Then open not thy lips:
	Firm and irrevocable is my doom
	Which I have pass'd upon her; she is banish'd.

CELIA	Pronounce that sentence then on me, my liege:
	I cannot live out of her company.

DUKE FREDERICK	You are a fool. You, niece, provide yourself:
	If you outstay the time, upon mine honour,
	And in the greatness of my word, you die.

	[Exeunt DUKE FREDERICK and Lords]

CELIA	O my poor Rosalind, whither wilt thou go?
	Wilt thou change fathers? I will give thee mine.
	I charge thee, be not thou more grieved than I am.

ROSALIND	I have more cause.

CELIA	                  Thou hast not, cousin;
	Prithee be cheerful: know'st thou not, the duke
	Hath banish'd me, his daughter?

ROSALIND	That he hath not.

CELIA	No, hath not? Rosalind lacks then the love
	Which teacheth thee that thou and I am one:
	Shall we be sunder'd? shall we part, sweet girl?
	No: let my father seek another heir.
	Therefore devise with me how we may fly,
	Whither to go and what to bear with us;
	And do not seek to take your change upon you,
	To bear your griefs yourself and leave me out;
	For, by this heaven, now at our sorrows pale,
	Say what thou canst, I'll go along with thee.

ROSALIND	Why, whither shall we go?

CELIA	To seek my uncle in the forest of Arden.

ROSALIND	Alas, what danger will it be to us,
	Maids as we are, to travel forth so far!
	Beauty provoketh thieves sooner than gold.

CELIA	I'll put myself in poor and mean attire
	And with a kind of umber smirch my face;
	The like do you: so shall we pass along
	And never stir assailants.

ROSALIND	Were it not better,
	Because that I am more than common tall,
	That I did suit me all points like a man?
	A gallant curtle-axe upon my thigh,
	A boar-spear in my hand; and--in my heart
	Lie there what hidden woman's fear there will--
	We'll have a swashing and a martial outside,
	As many other mannish cowards have
	That do outface it with their semblances.

CELIA	What shall I call thee when thou art a man?

ROSALIND	I'll have no worse a name than Jove's own page;
	And therefore look you call me Ganymede.
	But what will you be call'd?

CELIA	Something that hath a reference to my state
	No longer Celia, but Aliena.

ROSALIND	But, cousin, what if we assay'd to steal
	The clownish fool out of your father's court?
	Would he not be a comfort to our travel?

CELIA	He'll go along o'er the wide world with me;
	Leave me alone to woo him. Let's away,
	And get our jewels and our wealth together,
	Devise the fittest time and safest way
	To hide us from pursuit that will be made
	After my flight. Now go we in content
	To liberty and not to banishment.

	[Exeunt]




	AS YOU LIKE IT


ACT II



SCENE I	The Forest of Arden.


	[Enter DUKE SENIOR, AMIENS, and two or three Lords,
	like foresters]

DUKE SENIOR	Now, my co-mates and brothers in exile,
	Hath not old custom made this life more sweet
	Than that of painted pomp? Are not these woods
	More free from peril than the envious court?
	Here feel we but the penalty of Adam,
	The seasons' difference, as the icy fang
	And churlish chiding of the winter's wind,
	Which, when it bites and blows upon my body,
	Even till I shrink with cold, I smile and say
	'This is no flattery: these are counsellors
	That feelingly persuade me what I am.'
	Sweet are the uses of adversity,
	Which, like the toad, ugly and venomous,
	Wears yet a precious jewel in his head;
	And this our life exempt from public haunt
	Finds tongues in trees, books in the running brooks,
	Sermons in stones and good in every thing.
	I would not change it.

AMIENS	Happy is your grace,
	That can translate the stubbornness of fortune
	Into so quiet and so sweet a style.

DUKE SENIOR	Come, shall we go and kill us venison?
	And yet it irks me the poor dappled fools,
	Being native burghers of this desert city,
	Should in their own confines with forked heads
	Have their round haunches gored.

First Lord	Indeed, my lord,
	The melancholy Jaques grieves at that,
	And, in that kind, swears you do more usurp
	Than doth your brother that hath banish'd you.
	To-day my Lord of Amiens and myself
	Did steal behind him as he lay along
	Under an oak whose antique root peeps out
	Upon the brook that brawls along this wood:
	To the which place a poor sequester'd stag,
	That from the hunter's aim had ta'en a hurt,
	Did come to languish, and indeed, my lord,
	The wretched animal heaved forth such groans
	That their discharge did stretch his leathern coat
	Almost to bursting, and the big round tears
	Coursed one another down his innocent nose
	In piteous chase; and thus the hairy fool
	Much marked of the melancholy Jaques,
	Stood on the extremest verge of the swift brook,
	Augmenting it with tears.

DUKE SENIOR	But what said Jaques?
	Did he not moralize this spectacle?

First Lord	O, yes, into a thousand similes.
	First, for his weeping into the needless stream;
	'Poor deer,' quoth he, 'thou makest a testament
	As worldlings do, giving thy sum of more
	To that which had too much:' then, being there alone,
	Left and abandon'd of his velvet friends,
	''Tis right:' quoth he; 'thus misery doth part
	The flux of company:' anon a careless herd,
	Full of the pasture, jumps along by him
	And never stays to greet him; 'Ay' quoth Jaques,
	'Sweep on, you fat and greasy citizens;
	'Tis just the fashion: wherefore do you look
	Upon that poor and broken bankrupt there?'
	Thus most invectively he pierceth through
	The body of the country, city, court,
	Yea, and of this our life, swearing that we
	Are mere usurpers, tyrants and what's worse,
	To fright the animals and to kill them up
	In their assign'd and native dwelling-place.

DUKE SENIOR	And did you leave him in this contemplation?

Second Lord	We did, my lord, weeping and commenting
	Upon the sobbing deer.

DUKE SENIOR	Show me the place:
	I love to cope him in these sullen fits,
	For then he's full of matter.

First Lord	I'll bring you to him straight.

	[Exeunt]




	AS YOU LIKE IT


ACT II



SCENE II	A room in the palace.


	[Enter DUKE FREDERICK, with Lords]

DUKE FREDERICK	Can it be possible that no man saw them?
	It cannot be: some villains of my court
	Are of consent and sufferance in this.

First Lord	I cannot hear of any that did see her.
	The ladies, her attendants of her chamber,
	Saw her abed, and in the morning early
	They found the bed untreasured of their mistress.

Second Lord	My lord, the roynish clown, at whom so oft
	Your grace was wont to laugh, is also missing.
	Hisperia, the princess' gentlewoman,
	Confesses that she secretly o'erheard
	Your daughter and her cousin much commend
	The parts and graces of the wrestler
	That did but lately foil the sinewy Charles;
	And she believes, wherever they are gone,
	That youth is surely in their company.

DUKE FREDERICK	Send to his brother; fetch that gallant hither;
	If he be absent, bring his brother to me;
	I'll make him find him: do this suddenly,
	And let not search and inquisition quail
	To bring again these foolish runaways.

	[Exeunt]




	AS YOU LIKE IT


ACT II



SCENE III	Before OLIVER'S house.


	[Enter ORLANDO and ADAM, meeting]

ORLANDO	Who's there?

ADAM	What, my young master? O, my gentle master!
	O my sweet master! O you memory
	Of old Sir Rowland! why, what make you here?
	Why are you virtuous? why do people love you?
	And wherefore are you gentle, strong and valiant?
	Why would you be so fond to overcome
	The bonny priser of the humorous duke?
	Your praise is come too swiftly home before you.
	Know you not, master, to some kind of men
	Their graces serve them but as enemies?
	No more do yours: your virtues, gentle master,
	Are sanctified and holy traitors to you.
	O, what a world is this, when what is comely
	Envenoms him that bears it!

ORLANDO	Why, what's the matter?

ADAM	O unhappy youth!
	Come not within these doors; within this roof
	The enemy of all your graces lives:
	Your brother--no, no brother; yet the son--
	Yet not the son, I will not call him son
	Of him I was about to call his father--
	Hath heard your praises, and this night he means
	To burn the lodging where you use to lie
	And you within it: if he fail of that,
	He will have other means to cut you off.
	I overheard him and his practises.
	This is no place; this house is but a butchery:
	Abhor it, fear it, do not enter it.

ORLANDO	Why, whither, Adam, wouldst thou have me go?

ADAM	No matter whither, so you come not here.

ORLANDO	What, wouldst thou have me go and beg my food?
	Or with a base and boisterous sword enforce
	A thievish living on the common road?
	This I must do, or know not what to do:
	Yet this I will not do, do how I can;
	I rather will subject me to the malice
	Of a diverted blood and bloody brother.

ADAM	But do not so. I have five hundred crowns,
	The thrifty hire I saved under your father,
	Which I did store to be my foster-nurse
	When service should in my old limbs lie lame
	And unregarded age in corners thrown:
	Take that, and He that doth the ravens feed,
	Yea, providently caters for the sparrow,
	Be comfort to my age! Here is the gold;
	And all this I give you. Let me be your servant:
	Though I look old, yet I am strong and lusty;
	For in my youth I never did apply
	Hot and rebellious liquors in my blood,
	Nor did not with unbashful forehead woo
	The means of weakness and debility;
	Therefore my age is as a lusty winter,
	Frosty, but kindly: let me go with you;
	I'll do the service of a younger man
	In all your business and necessities.

ORLANDO	O good old man, how well in thee appears
	The constant service of the antique world,
	When service sweat for duty, not for meed!
	Thou art not for the fashion of these times,
	Where none will sweat but for promotion,
	And having that, do choke their service up
	Even with the having: it is not so with thee.
	But, poor old man, thou prunest a rotten tree,
	That cannot so much as a blossom yield
	In lieu of all thy pains and husbandry
	But come thy ways; well go along together,
	And ere we have thy youthful wages spent,
	We'll light upon some settled low content.

ADAM	Master, go on, and I will follow thee,
	To the last gasp, with truth and loyalty.
	From seventeen years till now almost fourscore
	Here lived I, but now live here no more.
	At seventeen years many their fortunes seek;
	But at fourscore it is too late a week:
	Yet fortune cannot recompense me better
	Than to die well and not my master's debtor.

	[Exeunt]




	AS YOU LIKE IT


ACT II



SCENE IV	The Forest of Arden.


	[Enter ROSALIND for Ganymede, CELIA for Aliena,
	and TOUCHSTONE]

ROSALIND	O Jupiter, how weary are my spirits!

TOUCHSTONE	I care not for my spirits, if my legs were not weary.

ROSALIND	I could find in my heart to disgrace my man's
	apparel and to cry like a woman; but I must comfort
	the weaker vessel, as doublet and hose ought to show
	itself courageous to petticoat: therefore courage,
	good Aliena!

CELIA	I pray you, bear with me; I cannot go no further.

TOUCHSTONE	For my part, I had rather bear with you than bear
	you; yet I should bear no cross if I did bear you,
	for I think you have no money in your purse.

ROSALIND	Well, this is the forest of Arden.

TOUCHSTONE	Ay, now am I in Arden; the more fool I; when I was
	at home, I was in a better place: but travellers
	must be content.

ROSALIND	Ay, be so, good Touchstone.

	[Enter CORIN and SILVIUS]

	Look you, who comes here; a young man and an old in
	solemn talk.

CORIN	That is the way to make her scorn you still.

SILVIUS	O Corin, that thou knew'st how I do love her!

CORIN	I partly guess; for I have loved ere now.

SILVIUS	No, Corin, being old, thou canst not guess,
	Though in thy youth thou wast as true a lover
	As ever sigh'd upon a midnight pillow:
	But if thy love were ever like to mine--
	As sure I think did never man love so--
	How many actions most ridiculous
	Hast thou been drawn to by thy fantasy?

CORIN	Into a thousand that I have forgotten.

SILVIUS	O, thou didst then ne'er love so heartily!
	If thou remember'st not the slightest folly
	That ever love did make thee run into,
	Thou hast not loved:
	Or if thou hast not sat as I do now,
	Wearying thy hearer in thy mistress' praise,
	Thou hast not loved:
	Or if thou hast not broke from company
	Abruptly, as my passion now makes me,
	Thou hast not loved.
	O Phebe, Phebe, Phebe!

	[Exit]

ROSALIND	Alas, poor shepherd! searching of thy wound,
	I have by hard adventure found mine own.

TOUCHSTONE	And I mine. I remember, when I was in love I broke
	my sword upon a stone and bid him take that for
	coming a-night to Jane Smile; and I remember the
	kissing of her batlet and the cow's dugs that her
	pretty chopt hands had milked; and I remember the
	wooing of a peascod instead of her, from whom I took
	two cods and, giving her them again, said with
	weeping tears 'Wear these for my sake.' We that are
	true lovers run into strange capers; but as all is
	mortal in nature, so is all nature in love mortal in folly.

ROSALIND	Thou speakest wiser than thou art ware of.

TOUCHSTONE	Nay, I shall ne'er be ware of mine own wit till I
	break my shins against it.

ROSALIND	Jove, Jove! this shepherd's passion
	Is much upon my fashion.

TOUCHSTONE	And mine; but it grows something stale with me.

CELIA	I pray you, one of you question yond man
	If he for gold will give us any food:
	I faint almost to death.

TOUCHSTONE	Holla, you clown!

ROSALIND	Peace, fool: he's not thy kinsman.

CORIN	Who calls?

TOUCHSTONE	Your betters, sir.

CORIN	                  Else are they very wretched.

ROSALIND	Peace, I say. Good even to you, friend.

CORIN	And to you, gentle sir, and to you all.

ROSALIND	I prithee, shepherd, if that love or gold
	Can in this desert place buy entertainment,
	Bring us where we may rest ourselves and feed:
	Here's a young maid with travel much oppress'd
	And faints for succor.

CORIN	Fair sir, I pity her
	And wish, for her sake more than for mine own,
	My fortunes were more able to relieve her;
	But I am shepherd to another man
	And do not shear the fleeces that I graze:
	My master is of churlish disposition
	And little recks to find the way to heaven
	By doing deeds of hospitality:
	Besides, his cote, his flocks and bounds of feed
	Are now on sale, and at our sheepcote now,
	By reason of his absence, there is nothing
	That you will feed on; but what is, come see.
	And in my voice most welcome shall you be.

ROSALIND	What is he that shall buy his flock and pasture?

CORIN	That young swain that you saw here but erewhile,
	That little cares for buying any thing.

ROSALIND	I pray thee, if it stand with honesty,
	Buy thou the cottage, pasture and the flock,
	And thou shalt have to pay for it of us.

CELIA	And we will mend thy wages. I like this place.
	And willingly could waste my time in it.

CORIN	Assuredly the thing is to be sold:
	Go with me: if you like upon report
	The soil, the profit and this kind of life,
	I will your very faithful feeder be
	And buy it with your gold right suddenly.

	[Exeunt]




	AS YOU LIKE IT


ACT II



SCENE V	The Forest.


	[Enter AMIENS, JAQUES, and others]

	SONG.
AMIENS	Under the greenwood tree
	Who loves to lie with me,
	And turn his merry note
	Unto the sweet bird's throat,
	Come hither, come hither, come hither:
	Here shall he see No enemy
	But winter and rough weather.

JAQUES	More, more, I prithee, more.

AMIENS	It will make you melancholy, Monsieur Jaques.

JAQUES	I thank it. More, I prithee, more. I can suck
	melancholy out of a song, as a weasel sucks eggs.
	More, I prithee, more.

AMIENS	My voice is ragged: I know I cannot please you.

JAQUES	I do not desire you to please me; I do desire you to
	sing. Come, more; another stanzo: call you 'em stanzos?

AMIENS	What you will, Monsieur Jaques.

JAQUES	Nay, I care not for their names; they owe me
	nothing. Will you sing?

AMIENS	More at your request than to please myself.

JAQUES	Well then, if ever I thank any man, I'll thank you;
	but that they call compliment is like the encounter
	of two dog-apes, and when a man thanks me heartily,
	methinks I have given him a penny and he renders me
	the beggarly thanks. Come, sing; and you that will
	not, hold your tongues.

AMIENS	Well, I'll end the song. Sirs, cover the while; the
	duke will drink under this tree. He hath been all
	this day to look you.

JAQUES	And I have been all this day to avoid him. He is
	too disputable for my company: I think of as many
	matters as he, but I give heaven thanks and make no
	boast of them. Come, warble, come.

	SONG.
	Who doth ambition shun

	[All together here]

	And loves to live i' the sun,
	Seeking the food he eats
	And pleased with what he gets,
	Come hither, come hither, come hither:
	Here shall he see No enemy
	But winter and rough weather.

JAQUES	I'll give you a verse to this note that I made
	yesterday in despite of my invention.

AMIENS	And I'll sing it.

JAQUES	Thus it goes:--

	If it do come to pass
	That any man turn ass,
	Leaving his wealth and ease,
	A stubborn will to please,
	Ducdame, ducdame, ducdame:
	Here shall he see
	Gross fools as he,
	An if he will come to me.

AMIENS	What's that 'ducdame'?

JAQUES	'Tis a Greek invocation, to call fools into a
	circle. I'll go sleep, if I can; if I cannot, I'll
	rail against all the first-born of Egypt.

AMIENS	And I'll go seek the duke: his banquet is prepared.

	[Exeunt severally]




	AS YOU LIKE IT


ACT II



SCENE VI	The forest.


	[Enter ORLANDO and ADAM]

ADAM	Dear master, I can go no further. O, I die for food!
	Here lie I down, and measure out my grave. Farewell,
	kind master.

ORLANDO	Why, how now, Adam! no greater heart in thee? Live
	a little; comfort a little; cheer thyself a little.
	If this uncouth forest yield any thing savage, I
	will either be food for it or bring it for food to
	thee. Thy conceit is nearer death than thy powers.
	For my sake be comfortable; hold death awhile at
	the arm's end: I will here be with thee presently;
	and if I bring thee not something to eat, I will
	give thee leave to die: but if thou diest before I
	come, thou art a mocker of my labour. Well said!
	thou lookest cheerly, and I'll be with thee quickly.
	Yet thou liest in the bleak air: come, I will bear
	thee to some shelter; and thou shalt not die for
	lack of a dinner, if there live any thing in this
	desert. Cheerly, good Adam!

	[Exeunt]




	AS YOU LIKE IT


ACT II



SCENE VII	The forest.


	[A table set out. Enter DUKE SENIOR, AMIENS, and
	Lords like outlaws]

DUKE SENIOR	I think he be transform'd into a beast;
	For I can no where find him like a man.

First Lord	My lord, he is but even now gone hence:
	Here was he merry, hearing of a song.

DUKE SENIOR	If he, compact of jars, grow musical,
	We shall have shortly discord in the spheres.
	Go, seek him: tell him I would speak with him.

	[Enter JAQUES]

First Lord	He saves my labour by his own approach.

DUKE SENIOR	Why, how now, monsieur! what a life is this,
	That your poor friends must woo your company?
	What, you look merrily!

JAQUES	A fool, a fool! I met a fool i' the forest,
	A motley fool; a miserable world!
	As I do live by food, I met a fool
	Who laid him down and bask'd him in the sun,
	And rail'd on Lady Fortune in good terms,
	In good set terms and yet a motley fool.
	'Good morrow, fool,' quoth I. 'No, sir,' quoth he,
	'Call me not fool till heaven hath sent me fortune:'
	And then he drew a dial from his poke,
	And, looking on it with lack-lustre eye,
	Says very wisely, 'It is ten o'clock:
	Thus we may see,' quoth he, 'how the world wags:
	'Tis but an hour ago since it was nine,
	And after one hour more 'twill be eleven;
	And so, from hour to hour, we ripe and ripe,
	And then, from hour to hour, we rot and rot;
	And thereby hangs a tale.' When I did hear
	The motley fool thus moral on the time,
	My lungs began to crow like chanticleer,
	That fools should be so deep-contemplative,
	And I did laugh sans intermission
	An hour by his dial. O noble fool!
	A worthy fool! Motley's the only wear.

DUKE SENIOR	What fool is this?

JAQUES	O worthy fool! One that hath been a courtier,
	And says, if ladies be but young and fair,
	They have the gift to know it: and in his brain,
	Which is as dry as the remainder biscuit
	After a voyage, he hath strange places cramm'd
	With observation, the which he vents
	In mangled forms. O that I were a fool!
	I am ambitious for a motley coat.

DUKE SENIOR	Thou shalt have one.

JAQUES	It is my only suit;
	Provided that you weed your better judgments
	Of all opinion that grows rank in them
	That I am wise. I must have liberty
	Withal, as large a charter as the wind,
	To blow on whom I please; for so fools have;
	And they that are most galled with my folly,
	They most must laugh. And why, sir, must they so?
	The 'why' is plain as way to parish church:
	He that a fool doth very wisely hit
	Doth very foolishly, although he smart,
	Not to seem senseless of the bob: if not,
	The wise man's folly is anatomized
	Even by the squandering glances of the fool.
	Invest me in my motley; give me leave
	To speak my mind, and I will through and through
	Cleanse the foul body of the infected world,
	If they will patiently receive my medicine.

DUKE SENIOR	Fie on thee! I can tell what thou wouldst do.

JAQUES	What, for a counter, would I do but good?

DUKE SENIOR	Most mischievous foul sin, in chiding sin:
	For thou thyself hast been a libertine,
	As sensual as the brutish sting itself;
	And all the embossed sores and headed evils,
	That thou with licence of free foot hast caught,
	Wouldst thou disgorge into the general world.

JAQUES	Why, who cries out on pride,
	That can therein tax any private party?
	Doth it not flow as hugely as the sea,
	Till that the weary very means do ebb?
	What woman in the city do I name,
	When that I say the city-woman bears
	The cost of princes on unworthy shoulders?
	Who can come in and say that I mean her,
	When such a one as she such is her neighbour?
	Or what is he of basest function
	That says his bravery is not of my cost,
	Thinking that I mean him, but therein suits
	His folly to the mettle of my speech?
	There then; how then? what then? Let me see wherein
	My tongue hath wrong'd him: if it do him right,
	Then he hath wrong'd himself; if he be free,
	Why then my taxing like a wild-goose flies,
	Unclaim'd of any man. But who comes here?

	[Enter ORLANDO, with his sword drawn]

ORLANDO	Forbear, and eat no more.

JAQUES	Why, I have eat none yet.

ORLANDO	Nor shalt not, till necessity be served.

JAQUES	Of what kind should this cock come of?

DUKE SENIOR	Art thou thus bolden'd, man, by thy distress,
	Or else a rude despiser of good manners,
	That in civility thou seem'st so empty?

ORLANDO	You touch'd my vein at first: the thorny point
	Of bare distress hath ta'en from me the show
	Of smooth civility: yet am I inland bred
	And know some nurture. But forbear, I say:
	He dies that touches any of this fruit
	Till I and my affairs are answered.

JAQUES	An you will not be answered with reason, I must die.

DUKE SENIOR	What would you have? Your gentleness shall force
	More than your force move us to gentleness.

ORLANDO	I almost die for food; and let me have it.

DUKE SENIOR	Sit down and feed, and welcome to our table.

ORLANDO	Speak you so gently? Pardon me, I pray you:
	I thought that all things had been savage here;
	And therefore put I on the countenance
	Of stern commandment. But whate'er you are
	That in this desert inaccessible,
	Under the shade of melancholy boughs,
	Lose and neglect the creeping hours of time
	If ever you have look'd on better days,
	If ever been where bells have knoll'd to church,
	If ever sat at any good man's feast,
	If ever from your eyelids wiped a tear
	And know what 'tis to pity and be pitied,
	Let gentleness my strong enforcement be:
	In the which hope I blush, and hide my sword.

DUKE SENIOR	True is it that we have seen better days,
	And have with holy bell been knoll'd to church
	And sat at good men's feasts and wiped our eyes
	Of drops that sacred pity hath engender'd:
	And therefore sit you down in gentleness
	And take upon command what help we have
	That to your wanting may be minister'd.

ORLANDO	Then but forbear your food a little while,
	Whiles, like a doe, I go to find my fawn
	And give it food. There is an old poor man,
	Who after me hath many a weary step
	Limp'd in pure love: till he be first sufficed,
	Oppress'd with two weak evils, age and hunger,
	I will not touch a bit.

DUKE SENIOR	Go find him out,
	And we will nothing waste till you return.

ORLANDO	I thank ye; and be blest for your good comfort!

	[Exit]

DUKE SENIOR	Thou seest we are not all alone unhappy:
	This wide and universal theatre
	Presents more woeful pageants than the scene
	Wherein we play in.

JAQUES	All the world's a stage,
	And all the men and women merely players:
	They have their exits and their entrances;
	And one man in his time plays many parts,
	His acts being seven ages. At first the infant,
	Mewling and puking in the nurse's arms.
	And then the whining school-boy, with his satchel
	And shining morning face, creeping like snail
	Unwillingly to school. And then the lover,
	Sighing like furnace, with a woeful ballad
	Made to his mistress' eyebrow. Then a soldier,
	Full of strange oaths and bearded like the pard,
	Jealous in honour, sudden and quick in quarrel,
	Seeking the bubble reputation
	Even in the cannon's mouth. And then the justice,
	In fair round belly with good capon lined,
	With eyes severe and beard of formal cut,
	Full of wise saws and modern instances;
	And so he plays his part. The sixth age shifts
	Into the lean and slipper'd pantaloon,
	With spectacles on nose and pouch on side,
	His youthful hose, well saved, a world too wide
	For his shrunk shank; and his big manly voice,
	Turning again toward childish treble, pipes
	And whistles in his sound. Last scene of all,
	That ends this strange eventful history,
	Is second childishness and mere oblivion,
	Sans teeth, sans eyes, sans taste, sans everything.

	[Re-enter ORLANDO, with ADAM]

DUKE SENIOR	Welcome. Set down your venerable burthen,
	And let him feed.

ORLANDO	I thank you most for him.

ADAM	So had you need:
	I scarce can speak to thank you for myself.

DUKE SENIOR	Welcome; fall to: I will not trouble you
	As yet, to question you about your fortunes.
	Give us some music; and, good cousin, sing.

	SONG.
AMIENS	Blow, blow, thou winter wind.
	Thou art not so unkind
	As man's ingratitude;
	Thy tooth is not so keen,
	Because thou art not seen,
	Although thy breath be rude.
	Heigh-ho! sing, heigh-ho! unto the green holly:
	Most friendship is feigning, most loving mere folly:
	Then, heigh-ho, the holly!
	This life is most jolly.
	Freeze, freeze, thou bitter sky,
	That dost not bite so nigh
	As benefits forgot:
	Though thou the waters warp,
	Thy sting is not so sharp
	As friend remember'd not.
	Heigh-ho! sing, &c.

DUKE SENIOR	If that you were the good Sir Rowland's son,
	As you have whisper'd faithfully you were,
	And as mine eye doth his effigies witness
	Most truly limn'd and living in your face,
	Be truly welcome hither: I am the duke
	That loved your father: the residue of your fortune,
	Go to my cave and tell me. Good old man,
	Thou art right welcome as thy master is.
	Support him by the arm. Give me your hand,
	And let me all your fortunes understand.

	[Exeunt]




	AS YOU LIKE IT


ACT III



SCENE I	A room in the palace.


	[Enter DUKE FREDERICK, Lords, and OLIVER]

DUKE FREDERICK	Not see him since? Sir, sir, that cannot be:
	But were I not the better part made mercy,
	I should not seek an absent argument
	Of my revenge, thou present. But look to it:
	Find out thy brother, wheresoe'er he is;
	Seek him with candle; bring him dead or living
	Within this twelvemonth, or turn thou no more
	To seek a living in our territory.
	Thy lands and all things that thou dost call thine
	Worth seizure do we seize into our hands,
	Till thou canst quit thee by thy brothers mouth
	Of what we think against thee.

OLIVER	O that your highness knew my heart in this!
	I never loved my brother in my life.

DUKE FREDERICK	More villain thou. Well, push him out of doors;
	And let my officers of such a nature
	Make an extent upon his house and lands:
	Do this expediently and turn him going.

	[Exeunt]




	AS YOU LIKE IT


ACT III



SCENE II	The forest.


	[Enter ORLANDO, with a paper]

ORLANDO	Hang there, my verse, in witness of my love:
	And thou, thrice-crowned queen of night, survey
	With thy chaste eye, from thy pale sphere above,
	Thy huntress' name that my full life doth sway.
	O Rosalind! these trees shall be my books
	And in their barks my thoughts I'll character;
	That every eye which in this forest looks
	Shall see thy virtue witness'd every where.
	Run, run, Orlando; carve on every tree
	The fair, the chaste and unexpressive she.

	[Exit]

	[Enter CORIN and TOUCHSTONE]

CORIN	And how like you this shepherd's life, Master Touchstone?

TOUCHSTONE	Truly, shepherd, in respect of itself, it is a good
	life, but in respect that it is a shepherd's life,
	it is naught. In respect that it is solitary, I
	like it very well; but in respect that it is
	private, it is a very vile life. Now, in respect it
	is in the fields, it pleaseth me well; but in
	respect it is not in the court, it is tedious. As
	is it a spare life, look you, it fits my humour well;
	but as there is no more plenty in it, it goes much
	against my stomach. Hast any philosophy in thee, shepherd?

CORIN	No more but that I know the more one sickens the
	worse at ease he is; and that he that wants money,
	means and content is without three good friends;
	that the property of rain is to wet and fire to
	burn; that good pasture makes fat sheep, and that a
	great cause of the night is lack of the sun; that
	he that hath learned no wit by nature nor art may
	complain of good breeding or comes of a very dull kindred.

TOUCHSTONE	Such a one is a natural philosopher. Wast ever in
	court, shepherd?

CORIN	No, truly.

TOUCHSTONE	Then thou art damned.

CORIN	Nay, I hope.

TOUCHSTONE	Truly, thou art damned like an ill-roasted egg, all
	on one side.

CORIN	For not being at court? Your reason.

TOUCHSTONE	Why, if thou never wast at court, thou never sawest
	good manners; if thou never sawest good manners,
	then thy manners must be wicked; and wickedness is
	sin, and sin is damnation. Thou art in a parlous
	state, shepherd.

CORIN	Not a whit, Touchstone: those that are good manners
	at the court are as ridiculous in the country as the
	behavior of the country is most mockable at the
	court. You told me you salute not at the court, but
	you kiss your hands: that courtesy would be
	uncleanly, if courtiers were shepherds.

TOUCHSTONE	Instance, briefly; come, instance.

CORIN	Why, we are still handling our ewes, and their
	fells, you know, are greasy.

TOUCHSTONE	Why, do not your courtier's hands sweat? and is not
	the grease of a mutton as wholesome as the sweat of
	a man? Shallow, shallow. A better instance, I say; come.

CORIN	Besides, our hands are hard.

TOUCHSTONE	Your lips will feel them the sooner. Shallow again.
	A more sounder instance, come.

CORIN	And they are often tarred over with the surgery of
	our sheep: and would you have us kiss tar? The
	courtier's hands are perfumed with civet.

TOUCHSTONE	Most shallow man! thou worms-meat, in respect of a
	good piece of flesh indeed! Learn of the wise, and
	perpend: civet is of a baser birth than tar, the
	very uncleanly flux of a cat. Mend the instance, shepherd.

CORIN	You have too courtly a wit for me: I'll rest.

TOUCHSTONE	Wilt thou rest damned? God help thee, shallow man!
	God make incision in thee! thou art raw.

CORIN	Sir, I am a true labourer: I earn that I eat, get
	that I wear, owe no man hate, envy no man's
	happiness, glad of other men's good, content with my
	harm, and the greatest of my pride is to see my ewes
	graze and my lambs suck.

TOUCHSTONE	That is another simple sin in you, to bring the ewes
	and the rams together and to offer to get your
	living by the copulation of cattle; to be bawd to a
	bell-wether, and to betray a she-lamb of a
	twelvemonth to a crooked-pated, old, cuckoldly ram,
	out of all reasonable match. If thou beest not
	damned for this, the devil himself will have no
	shepherds; I cannot see else how thou shouldst
	'scape.

CORIN	Here comes young Master Ganymede, my new mistress's brother.

	[Enter ROSALIND, with a paper, reading]

ROSALIND	     From the east to western Ind,
	No jewel is like Rosalind.
	Her worth, being mounted on the wind,
	Through all the world bears Rosalind.
	All the pictures fairest lined
	Are but black to Rosalind.
	Let no fair be kept in mind
	But the fair of Rosalind.

TOUCHSTONE	I'll rhyme you so eight years together, dinners and
	suppers and sleeping-hours excepted: it is the
	right butter-women's rank to market.

ROSALIND	Out, fool!

TOUCHSTONE	For a taste:
	If a hart do lack a hind,
	Let him seek out Rosalind.
	If the cat will after kind,
	So be sure will Rosalind.
	Winter garments must be lined,
	So must slender Rosalind.
	They that reap must sheaf and bind;
	Then to cart with Rosalind.
	Sweetest nut hath sourest rind,
	Such a nut is Rosalind.
	He that sweetest rose will find
	Must find love's prick and Rosalind.
	This is the very false gallop of verses: why do you
	infect yourself with them?

ROSALIND	Peace, you dull fool! I found them on a tree.

TOUCHSTONE	Truly, the tree yields bad fruit.

ROSALIND	I'll graff it with you, and then I shall graff it
	with a medlar: then it will be the earliest fruit
	i' the country; for you'll be rotten ere you be half
	ripe, and that's the right virtue of the medlar.

TOUCHSTONE	You have said; but whether wisely or no, let the
	forest judge.

	[Enter CELIA, with a writing]

ROSALIND	Peace! Here comes my sister, reading: stand aside.

CELIA	[Reads]

	Why should this a desert be?
	For it is unpeopled? No:
	Tongues I'll hang on every tree,
	That shall civil sayings show:
	Some, how brief the life of man
	Runs his erring pilgrimage,
	That the stretching of a span
	Buckles in his sum of age;
	Some, of violated vows
	'Twixt the souls of friend and friend:
	But upon the fairest boughs,
	Or at every sentence end,
	Will I Rosalinda write,
	Teaching all that read to know
	The quintessence of every sprite
	Heaven would in little show.
	Therefore Heaven Nature charged
	That one body should be fill'd
	With all graces wide-enlarged:
	Nature presently distill'd
	Helen's cheek, but not her heart,
	Cleopatra's majesty,
	Atalanta's better part,
	Sad Lucretia's modesty.
	Thus Rosalind of many parts
	By heavenly synod was devised,
	Of many faces, eyes and hearts,
	To have the touches dearest prized.
	Heaven would that she these gifts should have,
	And I to live and die her slave.

ROSALIND	O most gentle pulpiter! what tedious homily of love
	have you wearied your parishioners withal, and never
	cried 'Have patience, good people!'

CELIA	How now! back, friends! Shepherd, go off a little.
	Go with him, sirrah.

TOUCHSTONE	Come, shepherd, let us make an honourable retreat;
	though not with bag and baggage, yet with scrip and scrippage.

	[Exeunt CORIN and TOUCHSTONE]

CELIA	Didst thou hear these verses?

ROSALIND	O, yes, I heard them all, and more too; for some of
	them had in them more feet than the verses would bear.

CELIA	That's no matter: the feet might bear the verses.

ROSALIND	Ay, but the feet were lame and could not bear
	themselves without the verse and therefore stood
	lamely in the verse.

CELIA	But didst thou hear without wondering how thy name
	should be hanged and carved upon these trees?

ROSALIND	I was seven of the nine days out of the wonder
	before you came; for look here what I found on a
	palm-tree. I was never so be-rhymed since
	Pythagoras' time, that I was an Irish rat, which I
	can hardly remember.

CELIA	Trow you who hath done this?

ROSALIND	Is it a man?

CELIA	And a chain, that you once wore, about his neck.
	Change you colour?

ROSALIND	I prithee, who?

CELIA	O Lord, Lord! it is a hard matter for friends to
	meet; but mountains may be removed with earthquakes
	and so encounter.

ROSALIND	Nay, but who is it?

CELIA	Is it possible?

ROSALIND	Nay, I prithee now with most petitionary vehemence,
	tell me who it is.

CELIA	O wonderful, wonderful, and most wonderful
	wonderful! and yet again wonderful, and after that,
	out of all hooping!

ROSALIND	Good my complexion! dost thou think, though I am
	caparisoned like a man, I have a doublet and hose in
	my disposition? One inch of delay more is a
	South-sea of discovery; I prithee, tell me who is it
	quickly, and speak apace. I would thou couldst
	stammer, that thou mightst pour this concealed man
	out of thy mouth, as wine comes out of a narrow-
	mouthed bottle, either too much at once, or none at
	all. I prithee, take the cork out of thy mouth that
	may drink thy tidings.

CELIA	So you may put a man in your belly.

ROSALIND	Is he of God's making? What manner of man? Is his
	head worth a hat, or his chin worth a beard?

CELIA	Nay, he hath but a little beard.

ROSALIND	Why, God will send more, if the man will be
	thankful: let me stay the growth of his beard, if
	thou delay me not the knowledge of his chin.

CELIA	It is young Orlando, that tripped up the wrestler's
	heels and your heart both in an instant.

ROSALIND	Nay, but the devil take mocking: speak, sad brow and
	true maid.

CELIA	I' faith, coz, 'tis he.

ROSALIND	Orlando?

CELIA	Orlando.

ROSALIND	Alas the day! what shall I do with my doublet and
	hose? What did he when thou sawest him? What said
	he? How looked he? Wherein went he? What makes
	him here? Did he ask for me? Where remains he?
	How parted he with thee? and when shalt thou see
	him again? Answer me in one word.

CELIA	You must borrow me Gargantua's mouth first: 'tis a
	word too great for any mouth of this age's size. To
	say ay and no to these particulars is more than to
	answer in a catechism.

ROSALIND	But doth he know that I am in this forest and in
	man's apparel? Looks he as freshly as he did the
	day he wrestled?

CELIA	It is as easy to count atomies as to resolve the
	propositions of a lover; but take a taste of my
	finding him, and relish it with good observance.
	I found him under a tree, like a dropped acorn.

ROSALIND	It may well be called Jove's tree, when it drops
	forth such fruit.

CELIA	Give me audience, good madam.

ROSALIND	Proceed.

CELIA	There lay he, stretched along, like a wounded knight.

ROSALIND	Though it be pity to see such a sight, it well
	becomes the ground.

CELIA	Cry 'holla' to thy tongue, I prithee; it curvets
	unseasonably. He was furnished like a hunter.

ROSALIND	O, ominous! he comes to kill my heart.

CELIA	I would sing my song without a burden: thou bringest
	me out of tune.

ROSALIND	Do you not know I am a woman? when I think, I must
	speak. Sweet, say on.

CELIA	You bring me out. Soft! comes he not here?

	[Enter ORLANDO and JAQUES]

ROSALIND	'Tis he: slink by, and note him.

JAQUES	I thank you for your company; but, good faith, I had
	as lief have been myself alone.

ORLANDO	And so had I; but yet, for fashion sake, I thank you
	too for your society.

JAQUES	God be wi' you: let's meet as little as we can.

ORLANDO	I do desire we may be better strangers.

JAQUES	I pray you, mar no more trees with writing
	love-songs in their barks.

ORLANDO	I pray you, mar no more of my verses with reading
	them ill-favouredly.

JAQUES	Rosalind is your love's name?

ORLANDO	Yes, just.

JAQUES	I do not like her name.

ORLANDO	There was no thought of pleasing you when she was
	christened.

JAQUES	What stature is she of?

ORLANDO	Just as high as my heart.

JAQUES	You are full of pretty answers. Have you not been
	acquainted with goldsmiths' wives, and conned them
	out of rings?

ORLANDO	Not so; but I answer you right painted cloth, from
	whence you have studied your questions.

JAQUES	You have a nimble wit: I think 'twas made of
	Atalanta's heels. Will you sit down with me? and
	we two will rail against our mistress the world and
	all our misery.

ORLANDO	I will chide no breather in the world but myself,
	against whom I know most faults.

JAQUES	The worst fault you have is to be in love.

ORLANDO	'Tis a fault I will not change for your best virtue.
	I am weary of you.

JAQUES	By my troth, I was seeking for a fool when I found
	you.

ORLANDO	He is drowned in the brook: look but in, and you
	shall see him.

JAQUES	There I shall see mine own figure.

ORLANDO	Which I take to be either a fool or a cipher.

JAQUES	I'll tarry no longer with you: farewell, good
	Signior Love.

ORLANDO	I am glad of your departure: adieu, good Monsieur
	Melancholy.

	[Exit JAQUES]

ROSALIND	[Aside to CELIA]  I will speak to him, like a saucy
	lackey and under that habit play the knave with him.
	Do you hear, forester?

ORLANDO	Very well: what would you?

ROSALIND	I pray you, what is't o'clock?

ORLANDO	You should ask me what time o' day: there's no clock
	in the forest.

ROSALIND	Then there is no true lover in the forest; else
	sighing every minute and groaning every hour would
	detect the lazy foot of Time as well as a clock.

ORLANDO	And why not the swift foot of Time? had not that
	been as proper?

ROSALIND	By no means, sir: Time travels in divers paces with
	divers persons. I'll tell you who Time ambles
	withal, who Time trots withal, who Time gallops
	withal and who he stands still withal.

ORLANDO	I prithee, who doth he trot withal?

ROSALIND	Marry, he trots hard with a young maid between the
	contract of her marriage and the day it is
	solemnized: if the interim be but a se'nnight,
	Time's pace is so hard that it seems the length of
	seven year.

ORLANDO	Who ambles Time withal?

ROSALIND	With a priest that lacks Latin and a rich man that
	hath not the gout, for the one sleeps easily because
	he cannot study, and the other lives merrily because
	he feels no pain, the one lacking the burden of lean
	and wasteful learning, the other knowing no burden
	of heavy tedious penury; these Time ambles withal.

ORLANDO	Who doth he gallop withal?

ROSALIND	With a thief to the gallows, for though he go as
	softly as foot can fall, he thinks himself too soon there.

ORLANDO	Who stays it still withal?

ROSALIND	With lawyers in the vacation, for they sleep between
	term and term and then they perceive not how Time moves.

ORLANDO	Where dwell you, pretty youth?

ROSALIND	With this shepherdess, my sister; here in the
	skirts of the forest, like fringe upon a petticoat.

ORLANDO	Are you native of this place?

ROSALIND	As the cony that you see dwell where she is kindled.

ORLANDO	Your accent is something finer than you could
	purchase in so removed a dwelling.

ROSALIND	I have been told so of many: but indeed an old
	religious uncle of mine taught me to speak, who was
	in his youth an inland man; one that knew courtship
	too well, for there he fell in love. I have heard
	him read many lectures against it, and I thank God
	I am not a woman, to be touched with so many
	giddy offences as he hath generally taxed their
	whole sex withal.

ORLANDO	Can you remember any of the principal evils that he
	laid to the charge of women?

ROSALIND	There were none principal; they were all like one
	another as half-pence are, every one fault seeming
	monstrous till his fellow fault came to match it.

ORLANDO	I prithee, recount some of them.

ROSALIND	No, I will not cast away my physic but on those that
	are sick. There is a man haunts the forest, that
	abuses our young plants with carving 'Rosalind' on
	their barks; hangs odes upon hawthorns and elegies
	on brambles, all, forsooth, deifying the name of
	Rosalind: if I could meet that fancy-monger I would
	give him some good counsel, for he seems to have the
	quotidian of love upon him.

ORLANDO	I am he that is so love-shaked: I pray you tell me
	your remedy.

ROSALIND	There is none of my uncle's marks upon you: he
	taught me how to know a man in love; in which cage
	of rushes I am sure you are not prisoner.

ORLANDO	What were his marks?

ROSALIND	A lean cheek, which you have not, a blue eye and
	sunken, which you have not, an unquestionable
	spirit, which you have not, a beard neglected,
	which you have not; but I pardon you for that, for
	simply your having in beard is a younger brother's
	revenue: then your hose should be ungartered, your
	bonnet unbanded, your sleeve unbuttoned, your shoe
	untied and every thing about you demonstrating a
	careless desolation; but you are no such man; you
	are rather point-device in your accoutrements as
	loving yourself than seeming the lover of any other.

ORLANDO	Fair youth, I would I could make thee believe I love.

ROSALIND	Me believe it! you may as soon make her that you
	love believe it; which, I warrant, she is apter to
	do than to confess she does: that is one of the
	points in the which women still give the lie to
	their consciences. But, in good sooth, are you he
	that hangs the verses on the trees, wherein Rosalind
	is so admired?

ORLANDO	I swear to thee, youth, by the white hand of
	Rosalind, I am that he, that unfortunate he.

ROSALIND	But are you so much in love as your rhymes speak?

ORLANDO	Neither rhyme nor reason can express how much.

ROSALIND	Love is merely a madness, and, I tell you, deserves
	as well a dark house and a whip as madmen do: and
	the reason why they are not so punished and cured
	is, that the lunacy is so ordinary that the whippers
	are in love too. Yet I profess curing it by counsel.

ORLANDO	Did you ever cure any so?

ROSALIND	Yes, one, and in this manner. He was to imagine me
	his love, his mistress; and I set him every day to
	woo me: at which time would I, being but a moonish
	youth, grieve, be effeminate, changeable, longing
	and liking, proud, fantastical, apish, shallow,
	inconstant, full of tears, full of smiles, for every
	passion something and for no passion truly any
	thing, as boys and women are for the most part
	cattle of this colour; would now like him, now loathe
	him; then entertain him, then forswear him; now weep
	for him, then spit at him; that I drave my suitor
	from his mad humour of love to a living humour of
	madness; which was, to forswear the full stream of
	the world, and to live in a nook merely monastic.
	And thus I cured him; and this way will I take upon
	me to wash your liver as clean as a sound sheep's
	heart, that there shall not be one spot of love in't.

ORLANDO	I would not be cured, youth.

ROSALIND	I would cure you, if you would but call me Rosalind
	and come every day to my cote and woo me.

ORLANDO	Now, by the faith of my love, I will: tell me
	where it is.

ROSALIND	Go with me to it and I'll show it you and by the way
	you shall tell me where in the forest you live.
	Will you go?

ORLANDO	With all my heart, good youth.

ROSALIND	Nay you must call me Rosalind. Come, sister, will you go?

	[Exeunt]




	AS YOU LIKE IT


ACT III



SCENE III	The forest.


	[Enter TOUCHSTONE and AUDREY; JAQUES behind]

TOUCHSTONE	Come apace, good Audrey: I will fetch up your
	goats, Audrey. And how, Audrey? am I the man yet?
	doth my simple feature content you?

AUDREY	Your features! Lord warrant us! what features!

TOUCHSTONE	I am here with thee and thy goats, as the most
	capricious poet, honest Ovid, was among the Goths.

JAQUES	[Aside]  O knowledge ill-inhabited, worse than Jove
	in a thatched house!

TOUCHSTONE	When a man's verses cannot be understood, nor a
	man's good wit seconded with the forward child
	Understanding, it strikes a man more dead than a
	great reckoning in a little room. Truly, I would
	the gods had made thee poetical.

AUDREY	I do not know what 'poetical' is: is it honest in
	deed and word? is it a true thing?

TOUCHSTONE	No, truly; for the truest poetry is the most
	feigning; and lovers are given to poetry, and what
	they swear in poetry may be said as lovers they do feign.

AUDREY	Do you wish then that the gods had made me poetical?

TOUCHSTONE	I do, truly; for thou swearest to me thou art
	honest: now, if thou wert a poet, I might have some
	hope thou didst feign.

AUDREY	Would you not have me honest?

TOUCHSTONE	No, truly, unless thou wert hard-favoured; for
	honesty coupled to beauty is to have honey a sauce to sugar.

JAQUES	[Aside]  A material fool!

AUDREY	 Well, I am not fair; and therefore I pray the gods
	make me honest.

TOUCHSTONE	Truly, and to cast away honesty upon a foul slut
	were to put good meat into an unclean dish.

AUDREY	I am not a slut, though I thank the gods I am foul.

TOUCHSTONE	Well, praised be the gods for thy foulness!
	sluttishness may come hereafter. But be it as it may
	be, I will marry thee, and to that end I have been
	with Sir Oliver Martext, the vicar of the next
	village, who hath promised to meet me in this place
	of the forest and to couple us.

JAQUES	[Aside]  I would fain see this meeting.

AUDREY	Well, the gods give us joy!

TOUCHSTONE	Amen. A man may, if he were of a fearful heart,
	stagger in this attempt; for here we have no temple
	but the wood, no assembly but horn-beasts. But what
	though? Courage! As horns are odious, they are
	necessary. It is said, 'many a man knows no end of
	his goods:' right; many a man has good horns, and
	knows no end of them. Well, that is the dowry of
	his wife; 'tis none of his own getting. Horns?
	Even so. Poor men alone? No, no; the noblest deer
	hath them as huge as the rascal. Is the single man
	therefore blessed? No: as a walled town is more
	worthier than a village, so is the forehead of a
	married man more honourable than the bare brow of a
	bachelor; and by how much defence is better than no
	skill, by so much is a horn more precious than to
	want. Here comes Sir Oliver.

	[Enter SIR OLIVER MARTEXT]

	Sir Oliver Martext, you are well met: will you
	dispatch us here under this tree, or shall we go
	with you to your chapel?

SIR OLIVER MARTEXT	Is there none here to give the woman?

TOUCHSTONE	I will not take her on gift of any man.

SIR OLIVER MARTEXT	Truly, she must be given, or the marriage is not lawful.

JAQUES	[Advancing]

	Proceed, proceed	I'll give her.

TOUCHSTONE	Good even, good Master What-ye-call't: how do you,
	sir? You are very well met: God 'ild you for your
	last company: I am very glad to see you: even a
	toy in hand here, sir: nay, pray be covered.

JAQUES	Will you be married, motley?

TOUCHSTONE	As the ox hath his bow, sir, the horse his curb and
	the falcon her bells, so man hath his desires; and
	as pigeons bill, so wedlock would be nibbling.

JAQUES	And will you, being a man of your breeding, be
	married under a bush like a beggar? Get you to
	church, and have a good priest that can tell you
	what marriage is: this fellow will but join you
	together as they join wainscot; then one of you will
	prove a shrunk panel and, like green timber, warp, warp.

TOUCHSTONE	[Aside]  I am not in the mind but I were better to be
	married of him than of another: for he is not like
	to marry me well; and not being well married, it
	will be a good excuse for me hereafter to leave my wife.

JAQUES	Go thou with me, and let me counsel thee.

TOUCHSTONE	'Come, sweet Audrey:
	We must be married, or we must live in bawdry.
	Farewell, good Master Oliver: not,--
	O sweet Oliver,
	O brave Oliver,
	Leave me not behind thee: but,--
	Wind away,
	Begone, I say,
	I will not to wedding with thee.

	[Exeunt JAQUES, TOUCHSTONE and AUDREY]

SIR OLIVER MARTEXT	'Tis no matter: ne'er a fantastical knave of them
	all shall flout me out of my calling.

	[Exit]




	AS YOU LIKE IT


ACT III



SCENE IV	The forest.


	[Enter ROSALIND and CELIA]

ROSALIND	Never talk to me; I will weep.

CELIA	Do, I prithee; but yet have the grace to consider
	that tears do not become a man.

ROSALIND	But have I not cause to weep?

CELIA	As good cause as one would desire; therefore weep.

ROSALIND	His very hair is of the dissembling colour.

CELIA	Something browner than Judas's marry, his kisses are
	Judas's own children.

ROSALIND	I' faith, his hair is of a good colour.

CELIA	An excellent colour: your chestnut was ever the only colour.

ROSALIND	And his kissing is as full of sanctity as the touch
	of holy bread.

CELIA	He hath bought a pair of cast lips of Diana: a nun
	of winter's sisterhood kisses not more religiously;
	the very ice of chastity is in them.

ROSALIND	But why did he swear he would come this morning, and
	comes not?

CELIA	Nay, certainly, there is no truth in him.

ROSALIND	Do you think so?

CELIA	Yes; I think he is not a pick-purse nor a
	horse-stealer, but for his verity in love, I do
	think him as concave as a covered goblet or a
	worm-eaten nut.

ROSALIND	Not true in love?

CELIA	Yes, when he is in; but I think he is not in.

ROSALIND	You have heard him swear downright he was.

CELIA	'Was' is not 'is:' besides, the oath of a lover is
	no stronger than the word of a tapster; they are
	both the confirmer of false reckonings. He attends
	here in the forest on the duke your father.

ROSALIND	I met the duke yesterday and had much question with
	him: he asked me of what parentage I was; I told
	him, of as good as he; so he laughed and let me go.
	But what talk we of fathers, when there is such a
	man as Orlando?

CELIA	O, that's a brave man! he writes brave verses,
	speaks brave words, swears brave oaths and breaks
	them bravely, quite traverse, athwart the heart of
	his lover; as a puisny tilter, that spurs his horse
	but on one side, breaks his staff like a noble
	goose: but all's brave that youth mounts and folly
	guides. Who comes here?

	[Enter CORIN]

CORIN	Mistress and master, you have oft inquired
	After the shepherd that complain'd of love,
	Who you saw sitting by me on the turf,
	Praising the proud disdainful shepherdess
	That was his mistress.

CELIA	Well, and what of him?

CORIN	If you will see a pageant truly play'd,
	Between the pale complexion of true love
	And the red glow of scorn and proud disdain,
	Go hence a little and I shall conduct you,
	If you will mark it.

ROSALIND	O, come, let us remove:
	The sight of lovers feedeth those in love.
	Bring us to this sight, and you shall say
	I'll prove a busy actor in their play.

	[Exeunt]




	AS YOU LIKE IT


ACT III



SCENE V	Another part of the forest.


	[Enter SILVIUS and PHEBE]

SILVIUS	Sweet Phebe, do not scorn me; do not, Phebe;
	Say that you love me not, but say not so
	In bitterness. The common executioner,
	Whose heart the accustom'd sight of death makes hard,
	Falls not the axe upon the humbled neck
	But first begs pardon: will you sterner be
	Than he that dies and lives by bloody drops?

	[Enter ROSALIND, CELIA, and CORIN, behind]

PHEBE	I would not be thy executioner:
	I fly thee, for I would not injure thee.
	Thou tell'st me there is murder in mine eye:
	'Tis pretty, sure, and very probable,
	That eyes, that are the frail'st and softest things,
	Who shut their coward gates on atomies,
	Should be call'd tyrants, butchers, murderers!
	Now I do frown on thee with all my heart;
	And if mine eyes can wound, now let them kill thee:
	Now counterfeit to swoon; why now fall down;
	Or if thou canst not, O, for shame, for shame,
	Lie not, to say mine eyes are murderers!
	Now show the wound mine eye hath made in thee:
	Scratch thee but with a pin, and there remains
	Some scar of it; lean but upon a rush,
	The cicatrice and capable impressure
	Thy palm some moment keeps; but now mine eyes,
	Which I have darted at thee, hurt thee not,
	Nor, I am sure, there is no force in eyes
	That can do hurt.

SILVIUS	                  O dear Phebe,
	If ever,--as that ever may be near,--
	You meet in some fresh cheek the power of fancy,
	Then shall you know the wounds invisible
	That love's keen arrows make.

PHEBE	But till that time
	Come not thou near me: and when that time comes,
	Afflict me with thy mocks, pity me not;
	As till that time I shall not pity thee.

ROSALIND	And why, I pray you? Who might be your mother,
	That you insult, exult, and all at once,
	Over the wretched? What though you have no beauty,--
	As, by my faith, I see no more in you
	Than without candle may go dark to bed--
	Must you be therefore proud and pitiless?
	Why, what means this? Why do you look on me?
	I see no more in you than in the ordinary
	Of nature's sale-work. 'Od's my little life,
	I think she means to tangle my eyes too!
	No, faith, proud mistress, hope not after it:
	'Tis not your inky brows, your black silk hair,
	Your bugle eyeballs, nor your cheek of cream,
	That can entame my spirits to your worship.
	You foolish shepherd, wherefore do you follow her,
	Like foggy south puffing with wind and rain?
	You are a thousand times a properer man
	Than she a woman: 'tis such fools as you
	That makes the world full of ill-favour'd children:
	'Tis not her glass, but you, that flatters her;
	And out of you she sees herself more proper
	Than any of her lineaments can show her.
	But, mistress, know yourself: down on your knees,
	And thank heaven, fasting, for a good man's love:
	For I must tell you friendly in your ear,
	Sell when you can: you are not for all markets:
	Cry the man mercy; love him; take his offer:
	Foul is most foul, being foul to be a scoffer.
	So take her to thee, shepherd: fare you well.

PHEBE	Sweet youth, I pray you, chide a year together:
	I had rather hear you chide than this man woo.

ROSALIND	He's fallen in love with your foulness and she'll
	fall in love with my anger. If it be so, as fast as
	she answers thee with frowning looks, I'll sauce her
	with bitter words. Why look you so upon me?

PHEBE	For no ill will I bear you.

ROSALIND	I pray you, do not fall in love with me,
	For I am falser than vows made in wine:
	Besides, I like you not. If you will know my house,
	'Tis at the tuft of olives here hard by.
	Will you go, sister? Shepherd, ply her hard.
	Come, sister. Shepherdess, look on him better,
	And be not proud: though all the world could see,
	None could be so abused in sight as he.
	Come, to our flock.

	[Exeunt ROSALIND, CELIA and CORIN]

PHEBE	Dead Shepherd, now I find thy saw of might,
	'Who ever loved that loved not at first sight?'

SILVIUS	Sweet Phebe,--

PHEBE	                  Ha, what say'st thou, Silvius?

SILVIUS	Sweet Phebe, pity me.

PHEBE	Why, I am sorry for thee, gentle Silvius.

SILVIUS	Wherever sorrow is, relief would be:
	If you do sorrow at my grief in love,
	By giving love your sorrow and my grief
	Were both extermined.

PHEBE	Thou hast my love: is not that neighbourly?

SILVIUS	I would have you.

PHEBE	                  Why, that were covetousness.
	Silvius, the time was that I hated thee,
	And yet it is not that I bear thee love;
	But since that thou canst talk of love so well,
	Thy company, which erst was irksome to me,
	I will endure, and I'll employ thee too:
	But do not look for further recompense
	Than thine own gladness that thou art employ'd.

SILVIUS	So holy and so perfect is my love,
	And I in such a poverty of grace,
	That I shall think it a most plenteous crop
	To glean the broken ears after the man
	That the main harvest reaps: loose now and then
	A scatter'd smile, and that I'll live upon.

PHEBE	Know'st now the youth that spoke to me erewhile?

SILVIUS	Not very well, but I have met him oft;
	And he hath bought the cottage and the bounds
	That the old carlot once was master of.

PHEBE	Think not I love him, though I ask for him:
	'Tis but a peevish boy; yet he talks well;
	But what care I for words? yet words do well
	When he that speaks them pleases those that hear.
	It is a pretty youth: not very pretty:
	But, sure, he's proud, and yet his pride becomes him:
	He'll make a proper man: the best thing in him
	Is his complexion; and faster than his tongue
	Did make offence his eye did heal it up.
	He is not very tall; yet for his years he's tall:
	His leg is but so so; and yet 'tis well:
	There was a pretty redness in his lip,
	A little riper and more lusty red
	Than that mix'd in his cheek; 'twas just the difference
	Between the constant red and mingled damask.
	There be some women, Silvius, had they mark'd him
	In parcels as I did, would have gone near
	To fall in love with him; but, for my part,
	I love him not nor hate him not; and yet
	I have more cause to hate him than to love him:
	For what had he to do to chide at me?
	He said mine eyes were black and my hair black:
	And, now I am remember'd, scorn'd at me:
	I marvel why I answer'd not again:
	But that's all one; omittance is no quittance.
	I'll write to him a very taunting letter,
	And thou shalt bear it: wilt thou, Silvius?

SILVIUS	Phebe, with all my heart.

PHEBE	I'll write it straight;
	The matter's in my head and in my heart:
	I will be bitter with him and passing short.
	Go with me, Silvius.

	[Exeunt]




	AS YOU LIKE IT


ACT IV



SCENE I	The forest.


	[Enter ROSALIND, CELIA, and JAQUES]

JAQUES	I prithee, pretty youth, let me be better acquainted
	with thee.

ROSALIND	They say you are a melancholy fellow.

JAQUES	I am so; I do love it better than laughing.

ROSALIND	Those that are in extremity of either are abominable
	fellows and betray themselves to every modern
	censure worse than drunkards.

JAQUES	Why, 'tis good to be sad and say nothing.

ROSALIND	Why then, 'tis good to be a post.

JAQUES	I have neither the scholar's melancholy, which is
	emulation, nor the musician's, which is fantastical,
	nor the courtier's, which is proud, nor the
	soldier's, which is ambitious, nor the lawyer's,
	which is politic, nor the lady's, which is nice, nor
	the lover's, which is all these: but it is a
	melancholy of mine own, compounded of many simples,
	extracted from many objects, and indeed the sundry's
	contemplation of my travels, in which my often
	rumination wraps me m a most humorous sadness.

ROSALIND	A traveller! By my faith, you have great reason to
	be sad: I fear you have sold your own lands to see
	other men's; then, to have seen much and to have
	nothing, is to have rich eyes and poor hands.

JAQUES	Yes, I have gained my experience.

ROSALIND	And your experience makes you sad: I had rather have
	a fool to make me merry than experience to make me
	sad; and to travel for it too!

	[Enter ORLANDO]

ORLANDO	Good day and happiness, dear Rosalind!

JAQUES	Nay, then, God be wi' you, an you talk in blank verse.

	[Exit]

ROSALIND	Farewell, Monsieur Traveller: look you lisp and
	wear strange suits, disable all the benefits of your
	own country, be out of love with your nativity and
	almost chide God for making you that countenance you
	are, or I will scarce think you have swam in a
	gondola. Why, how now, Orlando! where have you been
	all this while? You a lover! An you serve me such
	another trick, never come in my sight more.

ORLANDO	My fair Rosalind, I come within an hour of my promise.

ROSALIND	Break an hour's promise in love! He that will
	divide a minute into a thousand parts and break but
	a part of the thousandth part of a minute in the
	affairs of love, it may be said of him that Cupid
	hath clapped him o' the shoulder, but I'll warrant
	him heart-whole.

ORLANDO	Pardon me, dear Rosalind.

ROSALIND	Nay, an you be so tardy, come no more in my sight: I
	had as lief be wooed of a snail.

ORLANDO	Of a snail?

ROSALIND	Ay, of a snail; for though he comes slowly, he
	carries his house on his head; a better jointure,
	I think, than you make a woman: besides he brings
	his destiny with him.

ORLANDO	What's that?

ROSALIND	Why, horns, which such as you are fain to be
	beholding to your wives for: but he comes armed in
	his fortune and prevents the slander of his wife.

ORLANDO	Virtue is no horn-maker; and my Rosalind is virtuous.

ROSALIND	And I am your Rosalind.

CELIA	It pleases him to call you so; but he hath a
	Rosalind of a better leer than you.

ROSALIND	Come, woo me, woo me, for now I am in a holiday
	humour and like enough to consent. What would you
	say to me now, an I were your very very Rosalind?

ORLANDO	I would kiss before I spoke.

ROSALIND	Nay, you were better speak first, and when you were
	gravelled for lack of matter, you might take
	occasion to kiss. Very good orators, when they are
	out, they will spit; and for lovers lacking--God
	warn us!--matter, the cleanliest shift is to kiss.

ORLANDO	How if the kiss be denied?

ROSALIND	Then she puts you to entreaty, and there begins new matter.

ORLANDO	Who could be out, being before his beloved mistress?

ROSALIND	Marry, that should you, if I were your mistress, or
	I should think my honesty ranker than my wit.

ORLANDO	What, of my suit?

ROSALIND	Not out of your apparel, and yet out of your suit.
	Am not I your Rosalind?

ORLANDO	I take some joy to say you are, because I would be
	talking of her.

ROSALIND	Well in her person I say I will not have you.

ORLANDO	Then in mine own person I die.

ROSALIND	No, faith, die by attorney. The poor world is
	almost six thousand years old, and in all this time
	there was not any man died in his own person,
	videlicit, in a love-cause. Troilus had his brains
	dashed out with a Grecian club; yet he did what he
	could to die before, and he is one of the patterns
	of love. Leander, he would have lived many a fair
	year, though Hero had turned nun, if it had not been
	for a hot midsummer night; for, good youth, he went
	but forth to wash him in the Hellespont and being
	taken with the cramp was drowned and the foolish
	coroners of that age found it was 'Hero of Sestos.'
	But these are all lies: men have died from time to
	time and worms have eaten them, but not for love.

ORLANDO	I would not have my right Rosalind of this mind,
	for, I protest, her frown might kill me.

ROSALIND	By this hand, it will not kill a fly. But come, now
	I will be your Rosalind in a more coming-on
	disposition, and ask me what you will. I will grant
	it.

ORLANDO	Then love me, Rosalind.

ROSALIND	Yes, faith, will I, Fridays and Saturdays and all.

ORLANDO	And wilt thou have me?

ROSALIND	Ay, and twenty such.

ORLANDO	What sayest thou?

ROSALIND	Are you not good?

ORLANDO	I hope so.

ROSALIND	Why then, can one desire too much of a good thing?
	Come, sister, you shall be the priest and marry us.
	Give me your hand, Orlando. What do you say, sister?

ORLANDO	Pray thee, marry us.

CELIA	I cannot say the words.

ROSALIND	You must begin, 'Will you, Orlando--'

CELIA	Go to. Will you, Orlando, have to wife this Rosalind?

ORLANDO	I will.

ROSALIND	Ay, but when?

ORLANDO	Why now; as fast as she can marry us.

ROSALIND	Then you must say 'I take thee, Rosalind, for wife.'

ORLANDO	I take thee, Rosalind, for wife.

ROSALIND	I might ask you for your commission; but I do take
	thee, Orlando, for my husband: there's a girl goes
	before the priest; and certainly a woman's thought
	runs before her actions.

ORLANDO	So do all thoughts; they are winged.

ROSALIND	Now tell me how long you would have her after you
	have possessed her.

ORLANDO	For ever and a day.

ROSALIND	Say 'a day,' without the 'ever.' No, no, Orlando;
	men are April when they woo, December when they wed:
	maids are May when they are maids, but the sky
	changes when they are wives. I will be more jealous
	of thee than a Barbary cock-pigeon over his hen,
	more clamorous than a parrot against rain, more
	new-fangled than an ape, more giddy in my desires
	than a monkey: I will weep for nothing, like Diana
	in the fountain, and I will do that when you are
	disposed to be merry; I will laugh like a hyen, and
	that when thou art inclined to sleep.

ORLANDO	But will my Rosalind do so?

ROSALIND	By my life, she will do as I do.

ORLANDO	O, but she is wise.

ROSALIND	Or else she could not have the wit to do this: the
	wiser, the waywarder: make the doors upon a woman's
	wit and it will out at the casement; shut that and
	'twill out at the key-hole; stop that, 'twill fly
	with the smoke out at the chimney.

ORLANDO	A man that had a wife with such a wit, he might say
	'Wit, whither wilt?'

ROSALIND	Nay, you might keep that cheque for it till you met
	your wife's wit going to your neighbour's bed.

ORLANDO	And what wit could wit have to excuse that?

ROSALIND	Marry, to say she came to seek you there. You shall
	never take her without her answer, unless you take
	her without her tongue. O, that woman that cannot
	make her fault her husband's occasion, let her
	never nurse her child herself, for she will breed
	it like a fool!

ORLANDO	For these two hours, Rosalind, I will leave thee.

ROSALIND	Alas! dear love, I cannot lack thee two hours.

ORLANDO	I must attend the duke at dinner: by two o'clock I
	will be with thee again.

ROSALIND	Ay, go your ways, go your ways; I knew what you
	would prove: my friends told me as much, and I
	thought no less: that flattering tongue of yours
	won me: 'tis but one cast away, and so, come,
	death! Two o'clock is your hour?

ORLANDO	Ay, sweet Rosalind.

ROSALIND	By my troth, and in good earnest, and so God mend
	me, and by all pretty oaths that are not dangerous,
	if you break one jot of your promise or come one
	minute behind your hour, I will think you the most
	pathetical break-promise and the most hollow lover
	and the most unworthy of her you call Rosalind that
	may be chosen out of the gross band of the
	unfaithful: therefore beware my censure and keep
	your promise.

ORLANDO	With no less religion than if thou wert indeed my
	Rosalind: so adieu.

ROSALIND	Well, Time is the old justice that examines all such
	offenders, and let Time try: adieu.

	[Exit ORLANDO]

CELIA	You have simply misused our sex in your love-prate:
	we must have your doublet and hose plucked over your
	head, and show the world what the bird hath done to
	her own nest.

ROSALIND	O coz, coz, coz, my pretty little coz, that thou
	didst know how many fathom deep I am in love! But
	it cannot be sounded: my affection hath an unknown
	bottom, like the bay of Portugal.

CELIA	Or rather, bottomless, that as fast as you pour
	affection in, it runs out.

ROSALIND	No, that same wicked bastard of Venus that was begot
	of thought, conceived of spleen and born of madness,
	that blind rascally boy that abuses every one's eyes
	because his own are out, let him be judge how deep I
	am in love. I'll tell thee, Aliena, I cannot be out
	of the sight of Orlando: I'll go find a shadow and
	sigh till he come.

CELIA	And I'll sleep.

	[Exeunt]




	AS YOU LIKE IT


ACT IV



SCENE II	The forest.


	[Enter JAQUES, Lords, and Foresters]

JAQUES	Which is he that killed the deer?

A Lord	Sir, it was I.

JAQUES	Let's present him to the duke, like a Roman
	conqueror; and it would do well to set the deer's
	horns upon his head, for a branch of victory. Have
	you no song, forester, for this purpose?

Forester	Yes, sir.

JAQUES	Sing it: 'tis no matter how it be in tune, so it
	make noise enough.

	SONG.
Forester	What shall he have that kill'd the deer?
	His leather skin and horns to wear.
	Then sing him home;

	[The rest shall bear this burden]

	Take thou no scorn to wear the horn;
	It was a crest ere thou wast born:
	Thy father's father wore it,
	And thy father bore it:
	The horn, the horn, the lusty horn
	Is not a thing to laugh to scorn.

	[Exeunt]




	AS YOU LIKE IT


ACT IV



SCENE III	The forest.


	[Enter ROSALIND and CELIA]

ROSALIND	How say you now? Is it not past two o'clock? and
	here much Orlando!

CELIA	I warrant you, with pure love and troubled brain, he
	hath ta'en his bow and arrows and is gone forth to
	sleep. Look, who comes here.

	[Enter SILVIUS]

SILVIUS	My errand is to you, fair youth;
	My gentle Phebe bid me give you this:
	I know not the contents; but, as I guess
	By the stern brow and waspish action
	Which she did use as she was writing of it,
	It bears an angry tenor: pardon me:
	I am but as a guiltless messenger.

ROSALIND	Patience herself would startle at this letter
	And play the swaggerer; bear this, bear all:
	She says I am not fair, that I lack manners;
	She calls me proud, and that she could not love me,
	Were man as rare as phoenix. 'Od's my will!
	Her love is not the hare that I do hunt:
	Why writes she so to me? Well, shepherd, well,
	This is a letter of your own device.

SILVIUS	No, I protest, I know not the contents:
	Phebe did write it.

ROSALIND	Come, come, you are a fool
	And turn'd into the extremity of love.
	I saw her hand: she has a leathern hand.
	A freestone-colour'd hand; I verily did think
	That her old gloves were on, but 'twas her hands:
	She has a huswife's hand; but that's no matter:
	I say she never did invent this letter;
	This is a man's invention and his hand.

SILVIUS	Sure, it is hers.

ROSALIND	Why, 'tis a boisterous and a cruel style.
	A style for-challengers; why, she defies me,
	Like Turk to Christian: women's gentle brain
	Could not drop forth such giant-rude invention
	Such Ethiope words, blacker in their effect
	Than in their countenance. Will you hear the letter?

SILVIUS	So please you, for I never heard it yet;
	Yet heard too much of Phebe's cruelty.

ROSALIND	She Phebes me: mark how the tyrant writes.

	[Reads]

	Art thou god to shepherd turn'd,
	That a maiden's heart hath burn'd?
	Can a woman rail thus?

SILVIUS	Call you this railing?

ROSALIND	[Reads]

	Why, thy godhead laid apart,
	Warr'st thou with a woman's heart?
	Did you ever hear such railing?
	Whiles the eye of man did woo me,
	That could do no vengeance to me.
	Meaning me a beast.
	If the scorn of your bright eyne
	Have power to raise such love in mine,
	Alack, in me what strange effect
	Would they work in mild aspect!
	Whiles you chid me, I did love;
	How then might your prayers move!
	He that brings this love to thee
	Little knows this love in me:
	And by him seal up thy mind;
	Whether that thy youth and kind
	Will the faithful offer take
	Of me and all that I can make;
	Or else by him my love deny,
	And then I'll study how to die.

SILVIUS	Call you this chiding?

CELIA	Alas, poor shepherd!

ROSALIND	Do you pity him? no, he deserves no pity. Wilt
	thou love such a woman? What, to make thee an
	instrument and play false strains upon thee! not to
	be endured! Well, go your way to her, for I see
	love hath made thee a tame snake, and say this to
	her: that if she love me, I charge her to love
	thee; if she will not, I will never have her unless
	thou entreat for her. If you be a true lover,
	hence, and not a word; for here comes more company.

	[Exit SILVIUS]

	[Enter OLIVER]

OLIVER	Good morrow, fair ones: pray you, if you know,
	Where in the purlieus of this forest stands
	A sheep-cote fenced about with olive trees?

CELIA	West of this place, down in the neighbour bottom:
	The rank of osiers by the murmuring stream
	Left on your right hand brings you to the place.
	But at this hour the house doth keep itself;
	There's none within.

OLIVER	If that an eye may profit by a tongue,
	Then should I know you by description;
	Such garments and such years: 'The boy is fair,
	Of female favour, and bestows himself
	Like a ripe sister: the woman low
	And browner than her brother.' Are not you
	The owner of the house I did inquire for?

CELIA	It is no boast, being ask'd, to say we are.

OLIVER	Orlando doth commend him to you both,
	And to that youth he calls his Rosalind
	He sends this bloody napkin. Are you he?

ROSALIND	I am: what must we understand by this?

OLIVER	Some of my shame; if you will know of me
	What man I am, and how, and why, and where
	This handkercher was stain'd.

CELIA	I pray you, tell it.

OLIVER	When last the young Orlando parted from you
	He left a promise to return again
	Within an hour, and pacing through the forest,
	Chewing the food of sweet and bitter fancy,
	Lo, what befell! he threw his eye aside,
	And mark what object did present itself:
	Under an oak, whose boughs were moss'd with age
	And high top bald with dry antiquity,
	A wretched ragged man, o'ergrown with hair,
	Lay sleeping on his back: about his neck
	A green and gilded snake had wreathed itself,
	Who with her head nimble in threats approach'd
	The opening of his mouth; but suddenly,
	Seeing Orlando, it unlink'd itself,
	And with indented glides did slip away
	Into a bush: under which bush's shade
	A lioness, with udders all drawn dry,
	Lay couching, head on ground, with catlike watch,
	When that the sleeping man should stir; for 'tis
	The royal disposition of that beast
	To prey on nothing that doth seem as dead:
	This seen, Orlando did approach the man
	And found it was his brother, his elder brother.

CELIA	O, I have heard him speak of that same brother;
	And he did render him the most unnatural
	That lived amongst men.

OLIVER	And well he might so do,
	For well I know he was unnatural.

ROSALIND	But, to Orlando: did he leave him there,
	Food to the suck'd and hungry lioness?

OLIVER	Twice did he turn his back and purposed so;
	But kindness, nobler ever than revenge,
	And nature, stronger than his just occasion,
	Made him give battle to the lioness,
	Who quickly fell before him: in which hurtling
	From miserable slumber I awaked.

CELIA	Are you his brother?

ROSALIND	Wast you he rescued?

CELIA	Was't you that did so oft contrive to kill him?

OLIVER	'Twas I; but 'tis not I	I do not shame
	To tell you what I was, since my conversion
	So sweetly tastes, being the thing I am.

ROSALIND	But, for the bloody napkin?

OLIVER	By and by.
	When from the first to last betwixt us two
	Tears our recountments had most kindly bathed,
	As how I came into that desert place:--
	In brief, he led me to the gentle duke,
	Who gave me fresh array and entertainment,
	Committing me unto my brother's love;
	Who led me instantly unto his cave,
	There stripp'd himself, and here upon his arm
	The lioness had torn some flesh away,
	Which all this while had bled; and now he fainted
	And cried, in fainting, upon Rosalind.
	Brief, I recover'd him, bound up his wound;
	And, after some small space, being strong at heart,
	He sent me hither, stranger as I am,
	To tell this story, that you might excuse
	His broken promise, and to give this napkin
	Dyed in his blood unto the shepherd youth
	That he in sport doth call his Rosalind.

	[ROSALIND swoons]

CELIA	Why, how now, Ganymede! sweet Ganymede!

OLIVER	Many will swoon when they do look on blood.

CELIA	There is more in it. Cousin Ganymede!

OLIVER	Look, he recovers.

ROSALIND	I would I were at home.

CELIA	We'll lead you thither.
	I pray you, will you take him by the arm?

OLIVER	Be of good cheer, youth: you a man! you lack a
	man's heart.

ROSALIND	I do so, I confess it. Ah, sirrah, a body would
	think this was well counterfeited! I pray you, tell
	your brother how well I counterfeited. Heigh-ho!

OLIVER	This was not counterfeit: there is too great
	testimony in your complexion that it was a passion
	of earnest.

ROSALIND	Counterfeit, I assure you.

OLIVER	Well then, take a good heart and counterfeit to be a man.

ROSALIND	So I do: but, i' faith, I should have been a woman by right.

CELIA	Come, you look paler and paler: pray you, draw
	homewards. Good sir, go with us.

OLIVER	That will I, for I must bear answer back
	How you excuse my brother, Rosalind.

ROSALIND	I shall devise something: but, I pray you, commend
	my counterfeiting to him. Will you go?

	[Exeunt]




	AS YOU LIKE IT


ACT V



SCENE I	The forest.


	[Enter TOUCHSTONE and AUDREY]

TOUCHSTONE	We shall find a time, Audrey; patience, gentle Audrey.

AUDREY	Faith, the priest was good enough, for all the old
	gentleman's saying.

TOUCHSTONE	A most wicked Sir Oliver, Audrey, a most vile
	Martext. But, Audrey, there is a youth here in the
	forest lays claim to you.

AUDREY	Ay, I know who 'tis; he hath no interest in me in
	the world: here comes the man you mean.

TOUCHSTONE	It is meat and drink to me to see a clown: by my
	troth, we that have good wits have much to answer
	for; we shall be flouting; we cannot hold.

	[Enter WILLIAM]

WILLIAM	Good even, Audrey.

AUDREY	God ye good even, William.

WILLIAM	And good even to you, sir.

TOUCHSTONE	Good even, gentle friend. Cover thy head, cover thy
	head; nay, prithee, be covered. How old are you, friend?

WILLIAM	Five and twenty, sir.

TOUCHSTONE	A ripe age. Is thy name William?

WILLIAM	William, sir.

TOUCHSTONE	A fair name. Wast born i' the forest here?

WILLIAM	Ay, sir, I thank God.

TOUCHSTONE	'Thank God;' a good answer. Art rich?

WILLIAM	Faith, sir, so so.

TOUCHSTONE	'So so' is good, very good, very excellent good; and
	yet it is not; it is but so so. Art thou wise?

WILLIAM	Ay, sir, I have a pretty wit.

TOUCHSTONE	Why, thou sayest well. I do now remember a saying,
	'The fool doth think he is wise, but the wise man
	knows himself to be a fool.' The heathen
	philosopher, when he had a desire to eat a grape,
	would open his lips when he put it into his mouth;
	meaning thereby that grapes were made to eat and
	lips to open. You do love this maid?

WILLIAM	I do, sir.

TOUCHSTONE	Give me your hand. Art thou learned?

WILLIAM	No, sir.

TOUCHSTONE	Then learn this of me: to have, is to have; for it
	is a figure in rhetoric that drink, being poured out
	of a cup into a glass, by filling the one doth empty
	the other; for all your writers do consent that ipse
	is he: now, you are not ipse, for I am he.

WILLIAM	Which he, sir?

TOUCHSTONE	He, sir, that must marry this woman. Therefore, you
	clown, abandon,--which is in the vulgar leave,--the
	society,--which in the boorish is company,--of this
	female,--which in the common is woman; which
	together is, abandon the society of this female, or,
	clown, thou perishest; or, to thy better
	understanding, diest; or, to wit I kill thee, make
	thee away, translate thy life into death, thy
	liberty into bondage: I will deal in poison with
	thee, or in bastinado, or in steel; I will bandy
	with thee in faction; I will o'errun thee with
	policy; I will kill thee a hundred and fifty ways:
	therefore tremble and depart.

AUDREY	Do, good William.

WILLIAM	God rest you merry, sir.

	[Exit]

	[Enter CORIN]

CORIN	Our master and mistress seeks you; come, away, away!

TOUCHSTONE	Trip, Audrey! trip, Audrey! I attend, I attend.

	[Exeunt]




	AS YOU LIKE IT


ACT V



SCENE II	The forest.


	[Enter ORLANDO and OLIVER]

ORLANDO	Is't possible that on so little acquaintance you
	should like her? that but seeing you should love
	her? and loving woo? and, wooing, she should
	grant? and will you persever to enjoy her?

OLIVER	Neither call the giddiness of it in question, the
	poverty of her, the small acquaintance, my sudden
	wooing, nor her sudden consenting; but say with me,
	I love Aliena; say with her that she loves me;
	consent with both that we may enjoy each other: it
	shall be to your good; for my father's house and all
	the revenue that was old Sir Rowland's will I
	estate upon you, and here live and die a shepherd.

ORLANDO	You have my consent. Let your wedding be to-morrow:
	thither will I invite the duke and all's contented
	followers. Go you and prepare Aliena; for look
	you, here comes my Rosalind.

	[Enter ROSALIND]

ROSALIND	God save you, brother.

OLIVER	And you, fair sister.

	[Exit]

ROSALIND	O, my dear Orlando, how it grieves me to see thee
	wear thy heart in a scarf!

ORLANDO	It is my arm.

ROSALIND	I thought thy heart had been wounded with the claws
	of a lion.

ORLANDO	Wounded it is, but with the eyes of a lady.

ROSALIND	Did your brother tell you how I counterfeited to
	swoon when he showed me your handkerchief?

ORLANDO	Ay, and greater wonders than that.

ROSALIND	O, I know where you are: nay, 'tis true: there was
	never any thing so sudden but the fight of two rams
	and Caesar's thrasonical brag of 'I came, saw, and
	overcame:' for your brother and my sister no sooner
	met but they looked, no sooner looked but they
	loved, no sooner loved but they sighed, no sooner
	sighed but they asked one another the reason, no
	sooner knew the reason but they sought the remedy;
	and in these degrees have they made a pair of stairs
	to marriage which they will climb incontinent, or
	else be incontinent before marriage: they are in
	the very wrath of love and they will together; clubs
	cannot part them.

ORLANDO	They shall be married to-morrow, and I will bid the
	duke to the nuptial. But, O, how bitter a thing it
	is to look into happiness through another man's
	eyes! By so much the more shall I to-morrow be at
	the height of heart-heaviness, by how much I shall
	think my brother happy in having what he wishes for.

ROSALIND	Why then, to-morrow I cannot serve your turn for Rosalind?

ORLANDO	I can live no longer by thinking.

ROSALIND	I will weary you then no longer with idle talking.
	Know of me then, for now I speak to some purpose,
	that I know you are a gentleman of good conceit: I
	speak not this that you should bear a good opinion
	of my knowledge, insomuch I say I know you are;
	neither do I labour for a greater esteem than may in
	some little measure draw a belief from you, to do
	yourself good and not to grace me. Believe then, if
	you please, that I can do strange things: I have,
	since I was three year old, conversed with a
	magician, most profound in his art and yet not
	damnable. If you do love Rosalind so near the heart
	as your gesture cries it out, when your brother
	marries Aliena, shall you marry her: I know into
	what straits of fortune she is driven; and it is
	not impossible to me, if it appear not inconvenient
	to you, to set her before your eyes tomorrow human
	as she is and without any danger.

ORLANDO	Speakest thou in sober meanings?

ROSALIND	By my life, I do; which I tender dearly, though I
	say I am a magician. Therefore, put you in your
	best array: bid your friends; for if you will be
	married to-morrow, you shall, and to Rosalind, if you will.

	[Enter SILVIUS and PHEBE]

	Look, here comes a lover of mine and a lover of hers.

PHEBE	Youth, you have done me much ungentleness,
	To show the letter that I writ to you.

ROSALIND	I care not if I have: it is my study
	To seem despiteful and ungentle to you:
	You are there followed by a faithful shepherd;
	Look upon him, love him; he worships you.

PHEBE	Good shepherd, tell this youth what 'tis to love.

SILVIUS	It is to be all made of sighs and tears;
	And so am I for Phebe.

PHEBE	And I for Ganymede.

ORLANDO	And I for Rosalind.

ROSALIND	And I for no woman.

SILVIUS	It is to be all made of faith and service;
	And so am I for Phebe.

PHEBE	And I for Ganymede.

ORLANDO	And I for Rosalind.

ROSALIND	And I for no woman.

SILVIUS	It is to be all made of fantasy,
	All made of passion and all made of wishes,
	All adoration, duty, and observance,
	All humbleness, all patience and impatience,
	All purity, all trial, all observance;
	And so am I for Phebe.

PHEBE	And so am I for Ganymede.

ORLANDO	And so am I for Rosalind.

ROSALIND	And so am I for no woman.

PHEBE	If this be so, why blame you me to love you?

SILVIUS	If this be so, why blame you me to love you?

ORLANDO	If this be so, why blame you me to love you?

ROSALIND	Who do you speak to, 'Why blame you me to love you?'

ORLANDO	To her that is not here, nor doth not hear.

ROSALIND	Pray you, no more of this; 'tis like the howling
	of Irish wolves against the moon.

	[To SILVIUS]

	I will help you, if I can:

	[To PHEBE]

	I would love you, if I could. To-morrow meet me all together.

	[To PHEBE]

	I will marry you, if ever I marry woman, and I'll be
	married to-morrow:

	[To ORLANDO]

	I will satisfy you, if ever I satisfied man, and you
	shall be married to-morrow:

	[To SILVIUS]

	I will content you, if what pleases you contents
	you, and you shall be married to-morrow.

	[To ORLANDO]

	As you love Rosalind, meet:

	[To SILVIUS]

	as you love Phebe, meet: and as I love no woman,
	I'll meet. So fare you well: I have left you commands.

SILVIUS	I'll not fail, if I live.

PHEBE	Nor I.

ORLANDO	Nor I.

	[Exeunt]




	AS YOU LIKE IT


ACT V



SCENE III	The forest.


	[Enter TOUCHSTONE and AUDREY]

TOUCHSTONE	To-morrow is the joyful day, Audrey; to-morrow will
	we be married.

AUDREY	I do desire it with all my heart; and I hope it is
	no dishonest desire to desire to be a woman of the
	world. Here comes two of the banished duke's pages.

	[Enter two Pages]

First Page	Well met, honest gentleman.

TOUCHSTONE	By my troth, well met. Come, sit, sit, and a song.

Second Page	We are for you: sit i' the middle.

First Page	Shall we clap into't roundly, without hawking or
	spitting or saying we are hoarse, which are the only
	prologues to a bad voice?

Second Page	I'faith, i'faith; and both in a tune, like two
	gipsies on a horse.

	SONG.
	It was a lover and his lass,
	With a hey, and a ho, and a hey nonino,
	That o'er the green corn-field did pass
	In the spring time, the only pretty ring time,
	When birds do sing, hey ding a ding, ding:
	Sweet lovers love the spring.

	Between the acres of the rye,
	With a hey, and a ho, and a hey nonino
	These pretty country folks would lie,
	In spring time, &c.

	This carol they began that hour,
	With a hey, and a ho, and a hey nonino,
	How that a life was but a flower
	In spring time, &c.

	And therefore take the present time,
	With a hey, and a ho, and a hey nonino;
	For love is crowned with the prime
	In spring time, &c.

TOUCHSTONE	Truly, young gentlemen, though there was no great
	matter in the ditty, yet the note was very
	untuneable.

First Page	You are deceived, sir: we kept time, we lost not our time.

TOUCHSTONE	By my troth, yes; I count it but time lost to hear
	such a foolish song. God be wi' you; and God mend
	your voices! Come, Audrey.

	[Exeunt]




	AS YOU LIKE IT


ACT V



SCENE IV	The forest.


	[Enter DUKE SENIOR, AMIENS, JAQUES, ORLANDO, OLIVER,
	and CELIA]

DUKE SENIOR	Dost thou believe, Orlando, that the boy
	Can do all this that he hath promised?

ORLANDO	I sometimes do believe, and sometimes do not;
	As those that fear they hope, and know they fear.

	[Enter ROSALIND, SILVIUS, and PHEBE]

ROSALIND	Patience once more, whiles our compact is urged:
	You say, if I bring in your Rosalind,
	You will bestow her on Orlando here?

DUKE SENIOR	That would I, had I kingdoms to give with her.

ROSALIND	And you say, you will have her, when I bring her?

ORLANDO	That would I, were I of all kingdoms king.

ROSALIND	You say, you'll marry me, if I be willing?

PHEBE	That will I, should I die the hour after.

ROSALIND	But if you do refuse to marry me,
	You'll give yourself to this most faithful shepherd?

PHEBE	So is the bargain.

ROSALIND	You say, that you'll have Phebe, if she will?

SILVIUS	Though to have her and death were both one thing.

ROSALIND	I have promised to make all this matter even.
	Keep you your word, O duke, to give your daughter;
	You yours, Orlando, to receive his daughter:
	Keep your word, Phebe, that you'll marry me,
	Or else refusing me, to wed this shepherd:
	Keep your word, Silvius, that you'll marry her.
	If she refuse me: and from hence I go,
	To make these doubts all even.

	[Exeunt ROSALIND and CELIA]

DUKE SENIOR	I do remember in this shepherd boy
	Some lively touches of my daughter's favour.

ORLANDO	My lord, the first time that I ever saw him
	Methought he was a brother to your daughter:
	But, my good lord, this boy is forest-born,
	And hath been tutor'd in the rudiments
	Of many desperate studies by his uncle,
	Whom he reports to be a great magician,
	Obscured in the circle of this forest.

	[Enter TOUCHSTONE and AUDREY]

JAQUES	There is, sure, another flood toward, and these
	couples are coming to the ark. Here comes a pair of
	very strange beasts, which in all tongues are called fools.

TOUCHSTONE	Salutation and greeting to you all!

JAQUES	Good my lord, bid him welcome: this is the
	motley-minded gentleman that I have so often met in
	the forest: he hath been a courtier, he swears.

TOUCHSTONE	If any man doubt that, let him put me to my
	purgation. I have trod a measure; I have flattered
	a lady; I have been politic with my friend, smooth
	with mine enemy; I have undone three tailors; I have
	had four quarrels, and like to have fought one.

JAQUES	And how was that ta'en up?

TOUCHSTONE	Faith, we met, and found the quarrel was upon the
	seventh cause.

JAQUES	How seventh cause? Good my lord, like this fellow.

DUKE SENIOR	I like him very well.

TOUCHSTONE	God 'ild you, sir; I desire you of the like. I
	press in here, sir, amongst the rest of the country
	copulatives, to swear and to forswear: according as
	marriage binds and blood breaks: a poor virgin,
	sir, an ill-favoured thing, sir, but mine own; a poor
	humour of mine, sir, to take that that no man else
	will: rich honesty dwells like a miser, sir, in a
	poor house; as your pearl in your foul oyster.

DUKE SENIOR	By my faith, he is very swift and sententious.

TOUCHSTONE	According to the fool's bolt, sir, and such dulcet diseases.

JAQUES	But, for the seventh cause; how did you find the
	quarrel on the seventh cause?

TOUCHSTONE	Upon a lie seven times removed:--bear your body more
	seeming, Audrey:--as thus, sir. I did dislike the
	cut of a certain courtier's beard: he sent me word,
	if I said his beard was not cut well, he was in the
	mind it was: this is called the Retort Courteous.
	If I sent him word again 'it was not well cut,' he
	would send me word, he cut it to please himself:
	this is called the Quip Modest. If again 'it was
	not well cut,' he disabled my judgment: this is
	called the Reply Churlish. If again 'it was not
	well cut,' he would answer, I spake not true: this
	is called the Reproof Valiant. If again 'it was not
	well cut,' he would say I lied: this is called the
	Counter-cheque Quarrelsome: and so to the Lie
	Circumstantial and the Lie Direct.

JAQUES	And how oft did you say his beard was not well cut?

TOUCHSTONE	I durst go no further than the Lie Circumstantial,
	nor he durst not give me the Lie Direct; and so we
	measured swords and parted.

JAQUES	Can you nominate in order now the degrees of the lie?

TOUCHSTONE	O sir, we quarrel in print, by the book; as you have
	books for good manners: I will name you the degrees.
	The first, the Retort Courteous; the second, the
	Quip Modest; the third, the Reply Churlish; the
	fourth, the Reproof Valiant; the fifth, the
	Countercheque Quarrelsome; the sixth, the Lie with
	Circumstance; the seventh, the Lie Direct. All
	these you may avoid but the Lie Direct; and you may
	avoid that too, with an If. I knew when seven
	justices could not take up a quarrel, but when the
	parties were met themselves, one of them thought but
	of an If, as, 'If you said so, then I said so;' and
	they shook hands and swore brothers. Your If is the
	only peacemaker; much virtue in If.

JAQUES	Is not this a rare fellow, my lord? he's as good at
	any thing and yet a fool.

DUKE SENIOR	He uses his folly like a stalking-horse and under
	the presentation of that he shoots his wit.

	[Enter HYMEN, ROSALIND, and CELIA]

	[Still Music]

HYMEN	        Then is there mirth in heaven,
	When earthly things made even
	Atone together.
	Good duke, receive thy daughter
	Hymen from heaven brought her,
	Yea, brought her hither,
	That thou mightst join her hand with his
	Whose heart within his bosom is.

ROSALIND	[To DUKE SENIOR]  To you I give myself, for I am yours.

	[To ORLANDO]

	To you I give myself, for I am yours.

DUKE SENIOR	If there be truth in sight, you are my daughter.

ORLANDO	If there be truth in sight, you are my Rosalind.

PHEBE	If sight and shape be true,
	Why then, my love adieu!

ROSALIND	I'll have no father, if you be not he:
	I'll have no husband, if you be not he:
	Nor ne'er wed woman, if you be not she.

HYMEN	        Peace, ho! I bar confusion:
	'Tis I must make conclusion
	Of these most strange events:
	Here's eight that must take hands
	To join in Hymen's bands,
	If truth holds true contents.
	You and you no cross shall part:
	You and you are heart in heart
	You to his love must accord,
	Or have a woman to your lord:
	You and you are sure together,
	As the winter to foul weather.
	Whiles a wedlock-hymn we sing,
	Feed yourselves with questioning;
	That reason wonder may diminish,
	How thus we met, and these things finish.

	SONG.
	Wedding is great Juno's crown:
	O blessed bond of board and bed!
	'Tis Hymen peoples every town;
	High wedlock then be honoured:
	Honour, high honour and renown,
	To Hymen, god of every town!

DUKE SENIOR	O my dear niece, welcome thou art to me!
	Even daughter, welcome, in no less degree.

PHEBE	I will not eat my word, now thou art mine;
	Thy faith my fancy to thee doth combine.

	[Enter JAQUES DE BOYS]

JAQUES DE BOYS	Let me have audience for a word or two:
	I am the second son of old Sir Rowland,
	That bring these tidings to this fair assembly.
	Duke Frederick, hearing how that every day
	Men of great worth resorted to this forest,
	Address'd a mighty power; which were on foot,
	In his own conduct, purposely to take
	His brother here and put him to the sword:
	And to the skirts of this wild wood he came;
	Where meeting with an old religious man,
	After some question with him, was converted
	Both from his enterprise and from the world,
	His crown bequeathing to his banish'd brother,
	And all their lands restored to them again
	That were with him exiled. This to be true,
	I do engage my life.

DUKE SENIOR	Welcome, young man;
	Thou offer'st fairly to thy brothers' wedding:
	To one his lands withheld, and to the other
	A land itself at large, a potent dukedom.
	First, in this forest, let us do those ends
	That here were well begun and well begot:
	And after, every of this happy number
	That have endured shrewd days and nights with us
	Shall share the good of our returned fortune,
	According to the measure of their states.
	Meantime, forget this new-fall'n dignity
	And fall into our rustic revelry.
	Play, music! And you, brides and bridegrooms all,
	With measure heap'd in joy, to the measures fall.

JAQUES	Sir, by your patience. If I heard you rightly,
	The duke hath put on a religious life
	And thrown into neglect the pompous court?

JAQUES DE BOYS	He hath.

JAQUES	To him will I : out of these convertites
	There is much matter to be heard and learn'd.

	[To DUKE SENIOR]

	You to your former honour I bequeath;
	Your patience and your virtue well deserves it:

	[To ORLANDO]

	You to a love that your true faith doth merit:

	[To OLIVER]

	You to your land and love and great allies:

	[To SILVIUS]

	You to a long and well-deserved bed:

	[To TOUCHSTONE]

	And you to wrangling; for thy loving voyage
	Is but for two months victuall'd. So, to your pleasures:
	I am for other than for dancing measures.

DUKE SENIOR	Stay, Jaques, stay.

JAQUES	To see no pastime I	what you would have
	I'll stay to know at your abandon'd cave.

	[Exit]

DUKE SENIOR	Proceed, proceed: we will begin these rites,
	As we do trust they'll end, in true delights.

	[A dance]




	AS YOU LIKE IT

	EPILOGUE


ROSALIND	It is not the fashion to see the lady the epilogue;
	but it is no more unhandsome than to see the lord
	the prologue. If it be true that good wine needs
	no bush, 'tis true that a good play needs no
	epilogue; yet to good wine they do use good bushes,
	and good plays prove the better by the help of good
	epilogues. What a case am I in then, that am
	neither a good epilogue nor cannot insinuate with
	you in the behalf of a good play! I am not
	furnished like a beggar, therefore to beg will not
	become me: my way is to conjure you; and I'll begin
	with the women. I charge you, O women, for the love
	you bear to men, to like as much of this play as
	please you: and I charge you, O men, for the love
	you bear to women--as I perceive by your simpering,
	none of you hates them--that between you and the
	women the play may please. If I were a woman I
	would kiss as many of you as had beards that pleased
	me, complexions that liked me and breaths that I
	defied not: and, I am sure, as many as have good
	beards or good faces or sweet breaths will, for my
	kind offer, when I make curtsy, bid me farewell.

	[Exeunt]


The Project Gutenberg Etext of LOC WORKSHOP ON ELECTRONIC TEXTS




                      WORKSHOP ON ELECTRONIC TEXTS

                               PROCEEDINGS



                          Edited by James Daly







                             9-10 June 1992


                           Library of Congress
                            Washington, D.C.



    Supported by a Grant from the David and Lucile Packard Foundation


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                            TABLE OF CONTENTS


Acknowledgements

Introduction

Proceedings
   Welcome
      Prosser Gifford and Carl Fleischhauer

   Session I.  Content in a New Form:  Who Will Use It and What Will They Do?
      James Daly (Moderator)
      Avra Michelson, Overview
      Susan H. Veccia, User Evaluation
      Joanne Freeman, Beyond the Scholar
         Discussion

   Session II.  Show and Tell
      Jacqueline Hess (Moderator)
      Elli Mylonas, Perseus Project
         Discussion
      Eric M. Calaluca, Patrologia Latina Database
      Carl Fleischhauer and Ricky Erway, American Memory
         Discussion
      Dorothy Twohig, The Papers of George Washington
         Discussion
      Maria L. Lebron, The Online Journal of Current Clinical Trials
         Discussion
      Lynne K. Personius, Cornell mathematics books
         Discussion

   Session III.  Distribution, Networks, and Networking:
                 Options for Dissemination
      Robert G. Zich (Moderator)
      Clifford A. Lynch
         Discussion
      Howard Besser
         Discussion
      Ronald L. Larsen
      Edwin B. Brownrigg
         Discussion

   Session IV.  Image Capture, Text Capture, Overview of Text and
                Image Storage Formats
         William L. Hooton (Moderator)
      A) Principal Methods for Image Capture of Text:
            direct scanning, use of microform
         Anne R. Kenney
         Pamela Q.J. Andre
         Judith A. Zidar
         Donald J. Waters
            Discussion
      B) Special Problems:  bound volumes, conservation,
                            reproducing printed halftones
         George Thoma
         Carl Fleischhauer
            Discussion
      C) Image Standards and Implications for Preservation
         Jean Baronas
         Patricia Battin
            Discussion
      D) Text Conversion:  OCR vs. rekeying, standards of accuracy
                           and use of imperfect texts, service bureaus
         Michael Lesk
         Ricky Erway
         Judith A. Zidar
            Discussion

   Session V.  Approaches to Preparing Electronic Texts
      Susan Hockey (Moderator)
      Stuart Weibel
         Discussion
      C.M. Sperberg-McQueen
         Discussion
      Eric M. Calaluca
         Discussion

   Session VI.  Copyright Issues
      Marybeth Peters

   Session VII.  Conclusion
      Prosser Gifford (Moderator)
      General discussion

Appendix I:  Program

Appendix II:  Abstracts

Appendix III:  Directory of Participants


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                            Acknowledgements

I would like to thank Carl Fleischhauer and Prosser Gifford for the
opportunity to learn about areas of human activity unknown to me a scant
ten months ago, and the David and Lucile Packard Foundation for
supporting that opportunity.  The help given by others is acknowledged on
a separate page.

                                                          19 October 1992


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                              INTRODUCTION

The Workshop on Electronic Texts (1) drew together representatives of
various projects and interest groups to compare ideas, beliefs,
experiences, and, in particular, methods of placing and presenting
historical textual materials in computerized form.  Most attendees gained
much in insight and outlook from the event.  But the assembly did not
form a new nation, or, to put it another way, the diversity of projects
and interests was too great to draw the representatives into a cohesive,
action-oriented body.(2)

Everyone attending the Workshop shared an interest in preserving and
providing access to historical texts.  But within this broad field the
attendees represented a variety of formal, informal, figurative, and
literal groups, with many individuals belonging to more than one.  These
groups may be defined roughly according to the following topics or
activities:

* Imaging
* Searchable coded texts
* National and international computer networks
* CD-ROM production and dissemination
* Methods and technology for converting older paper materials into
electronic form
* Study of the use of digital materials by scholars and others

This summary is arranged thematically and does not follow the actual
sequence of presentations.

NOTES:
     (1)  In this document, the phrase electronic text is used to mean
     any computerized reproduction or version of a document, book,
     article, or manuscript (including images), and not merely a machine-
     readable or machine-searchable text.

     (2)  The Workshop was held at the Library of Congress on 9-10 June
     1992, with funding from the David and Lucile Packard Foundation.
     The document that follows represents a summary of the presentations
     made at the Workshop and was compiled by James DALY.  This
     introduction was written by DALY and Carl FLEISCHHAUER.


PRESERVATION AND IMAGING

Preservation, as that term is used by archivists,(3) was most explicitly
discussed in the context of imaging.  Anne KENNEY and Lynne PERSONIUS
explained how the concept of a faithful copy and the user-friendliness of
the traditional book have guided their project at Cornell University.(4)
Although interested in computerized dissemination, participants in the
Cornell project are creating digital image sets of older books in the
public domain as a source for a fresh paper facsimile or, in a future
phase, microfilm.  The books returned to the library shelves are
high-quality and useful replacements on acid-free paper that should last
a long time.  To date, the Cornell project has placed little or no
emphasis on creating searchable texts; one would not be surprised to find
that the project participants view such texts as new editions, and thus
not as faithful reproductions.

In her talk on preservation, Patricia BATTIN struck an ecumenical and
flexible note as she endorsed the creation and dissemination of a variety
of types of digital copies.  Do not be too narrow in defining what counts
as a preservation element, BATTIN counseled; for the present, at least,
digital copies made with preservation in mind cannot be as narrowly
standardized as, say, microfilm copies with the same objective.  Setting
standards precipitously can inhibit creativity, but delay can result in
chaos, she advised.

In part, BATTIN's position reflected the unsettled nature of image-format
standards, and attendees could hear echoes of this unsettledness in the
comments of various speakers.  For example, Jean BARONAS reviewed the
status of several formal standards moving through committees of experts;
and Clifford LYNCH encouraged the use of a new guideline for transmitting
document images on Internet.  Testimony from participants in the National
Agricultural Library's (NAL) Text Digitization Program and LC's American
Memory project highlighted some of the challenges to the actual creation
or interchange of images, including difficulties in converting
preservation microfilm to digital form.  Donald WATERS reported on the
progress of a master plan for a project at Yale University to convert
books on microfilm to digital image sets, Project Open Book (POB).

The Workshop offered rather less of an imaging practicum than planned,
but "how-to" hints emerge at various points, for example, throughout
KENNEY's presentation and in the discussion of arcana such as
thresholding and dithering offered by George THOMA and FLEISCHHAUER.

NOTES:
     (3)  Although there is a sense in which any reproductions of
     historical materials preserve the human record, specialists in the
     field have developed particular guidelines for the creation of
     acceptable preservation copies.

     (4)  Titles and affiliations of presenters are given at the
     beginning of their respective talks and in the Directory of
     Participants (Appendix III).


THE MACHINE-READABLE TEXT:  MARKUP AND USE

The sections of the Workshop that dealt with machine-readable text tended
to be more concerned with access and use than with preservation, at least
in the narrow technical sense.  Michael SPERBERG-McQUEEN made a forceful
presentation on the Text Encoding Initiative's (TEI) implementation of
the Standard Generalized Markup Language (SGML).  His ideas were echoed
by Susan HOCKEY, Elli MYLONAS, and Stuart WEIBEL.  While the
presentations made by the TEI advocates contained no practicum, their
discussion focused on the value of the finished product, what the
European Community calls reusability, but what may also be termed
durability.  They argued that marking up--that is, coding--a text in a
well-conceived way will permit it to be moved from one computer
environment to another, as well as to be used by various users.  Two
kinds of markup were distinguished:  1) procedural markup, which
describes the features of a text (e.g., dots on a page), and 2)
descriptive markup, which describes the structure or elements of a
document (e.g., chapters, paragraphs, and front matter).

The TEI proponents emphasized the importance of texts to scholarship.
They explained how heavily coded (and thus analyzed and annotated) texts
can underlie research, play a role in scholarly communication, and
facilitate classroom teaching.  SPERBERG-McQUEEN reminded listeners that
a written or printed item (e.g., a particular edition of a book) is
merely a representation of the abstraction we call a text.  To concern
ourselves with faithfully reproducing a printed instance of the text,
SPERBERG-McQUEEN argued, is to concern ourselves with the representation
of a representation ("images as simulacra for the text").  The TEI proponents'
interest in images tends to focus on corollary materials for use in teaching,
for example, photographs of the Acropolis to accompany a Greek text.

By the end of the Workshop, SPERBERG-McQUEEN confessed to having been
converted to a limited extent to the view that electronic images
constitute a promising alternative to microfilming; indeed, an
alternative probably superior to microfilming.  But he was not convinced
that electronic images constitute a serious attempt to represent text in
electronic form.  HOCKEY and MYLONAS also conceded that their experience
at the Pierce Symposium the previous week at Georgetown University and
the present conference at the Library of Congress had compelled them to
reevaluate their perspective on the usefulness of text as images.
Attendees could see that the text and image advocates were in
constructive tension, so to say.

Three nonTEI presentations described approaches to preparing
machine-readable text that are less rigorous and thus less expensive.  In
the case of the Papers of George Washington, Dorothy TWOHIG explained
that the digital version will provide a not-quite-perfect rendering of
the transcribed text--some 135,000 documents, available for research
during the decades while the perfect or print version is completed.
Members of the American Memory team and the staff of NAL's Text
Digitization Program (see below) also outlined a middle ground concerning
searchable texts.  In the case of American Memory, contractors produce
texts with about 99-percent accuracy that serve as "browse" or
"reference" versions of written or printed originals.  End users who need
faithful copies or perfect renditions must refer to accompanying sets of
digital facsimile images or consult copies of the originals in a nearby
library or archive.  American Memory staff argued that the high cost of
producing 100-percent accurate copies would prevent LC from offering
access to large parts of its collections.


THE MACHINE-READABLE TEXT:  METHODS OF CONVERSION

Although the Workshop did not include a systematic examination of the
methods for converting texts from paper (or from facsimile images) into
machine-readable form, nevertheless, various speakers touched upon this
matter.  For example, WEIBEL reported that OCLC has experimented with a
merging of multiple optical character recognition systems that will
reduce errors from an unacceptable rate of 5 characters out of every
l,000 to an unacceptable rate of 2 characters out of every l,000.

Pamela ANDRE presented an overview of NAL's Text Digitization Program and
Judith ZIDAR discussed the technical details.  ZIDAR explained how NAL
purchased hardware and software capable of performing optical character
recognition (OCR) and text conversion and used its own staff to convert
texts.  The process, ZIDAR said, required extensive editing and project
staff found themselves considering alternatives, including rekeying
and/or creating abstracts or summaries of texts.  NAL reckoned costs at
$7 per page.  By way of contrast, Ricky ERWAY explained that American
Memory had decided from the start to contract out conversion to external
service bureaus.  The criteria used to select these contractors were cost
and quality of results, as opposed to methods of conversion.  ERWAY noted
that historical documents or books often do not lend themselves to OCR.
Bound materials represent a special problem.  In her experience, quality
control--inspecting incoming materials, counting errors in samples--posed
the most time-consuming aspect of contracting out conversion.  ERWAY
reckoned American Memory's costs at $4 per page, but cautioned that fewer
cost-elements had been included than in NAL's figure.


OPTIONS FOR DISSEMINATION

The topic of dissemination proper emerged at various points during the
Workshop.  At the session devoted to national and international computer
networks, LYNCH, Howard BESSER, Ronald LARSEN, and Edwin BROWNRIGG
highlighted the virtues of Internet today and of the network that will
evolve from Internet.  Listeners could discern in these narratives a
vision of an information democracy in which millions of citizens freely
find and use what they need.  LYNCH noted that a lack of standards
inhibits disseminating multimedia on the network, a topic also discussed
by BESSER.  LARSEN addressed the issues of network scalability and
modularity and commented upon the difficulty of anticipating the effects
of growth in orders of magnitude.  BROWNRIGG talked about the ability of
packet radio to provide certain links in a network without the need for
wiring.  However, the presenters also called attention to the
shortcomings and incongruities of present-day computer networks.  For
example:  1) Network use is growing dramatically, but much network
traffic consists of personal communication (E-mail).  2) Large bodies of
information are available, but a user's ability to search across their
entirety is limited.  3) There are significant resources for science and
technology, but few network sources provide content in the humanities.
4) Machine-readable texts are commonplace, but the capability of the
system to deal with images (let alone other media formats) lags behind.
A glimpse of a multimedia future for networks, however, was provided by
Maria LEBRON in her overview of the Online Journal of Current Clinical
Trials (OJCCT), and the process of scholarly publishing on-line.

The contrasting form of the CD-ROM disk was never systematically
analyzed, but attendees could glean an impression from several of the
show-and-tell presentations.  The Perseus and American Memory examples
demonstrated recently published disks, while the descriptions of the
IBYCUS version of the Papers of George Washington and Chadwyck-Healey's
Patrologia Latina Database (PLD) told of disks to come.  According to
Eric CALALUCA, PLD's principal focus has been on converting Jacques-Paul
Migne's definitive collection of Latin texts to machine-readable form.
Although everyone could share the network advocates' enthusiasm for an
on-line future, the possibility of rolling up one's sleeves for a session
with a CD-ROM containing both textual materials and a powerful retrieval
engine made the disk seem an appealing vessel indeed.  The overall
discussion suggested that the transition from CD-ROM to on-line networked
access may prove far slower and more difficult than has been anticipated.


WHO ARE THE USERS AND WHAT DO THEY DO?

Although concerned with the technicalities of production, the Workshop
never lost sight of the purposes and uses of electronic versions of
textual materials.  As noted above, those interested in imaging discussed
the problematical matter of digital preservation, while the TEI proponents
described how machine-readable texts can be used in research.  This latter
topic received thorough treatment in the paper read by Avra MICHELSON.
She placed the phenomenon of electronic texts within the context of
broader trends in information technology and scholarly communication.

Among other things, MICHELSON described on-line conferences that
represent a vigorous and important intellectual forum for certain
disciplines.  Internet now carries more than 700 conferences, with about
80 percent of these devoted to topics in the social sciences and the
humanities.  Other scholars use on-line networks for "distance learning."
Meanwhile, there has been a tremendous growth in end-user computing;
professors today are less likely than their predecessors to ask the
campus computer center to process their data.  Electronic texts are one
key to these sophisticated applications, MICHELSON reported, and more and
more scholars in the humanities now work in an on-line environment.
Toward the end of the Workshop, Michael LESK presented a corollary to
MICHELSON's talk, reporting the results of an experiment that compared
the work of one group of chemistry students using traditional printed
texts and two groups using electronic sources.  The experiment
demonstrated that in the event one does not know what to read, one needs
the electronic systems; the electronic systems hold no advantage at the
moment if one knows what to read, but neither do they impose a penalty.

DALY provided an anecdotal account of the revolutionizing impact of the
new technology on his previous methods of research in the field of classics.
His account, by extrapolation, served to illustrate in part the arguments
made by MICHELSON concerning the positive effects of the sudden and radical
transformation being wrought in the ways scholars work.

Susan VECCIA and Joanne FREEMAN delineated the use of electronic
materials outside the university.  The most interesting aspect of their
use, FREEMAN said, could be seen as a paradox:  teachers in elementary
and secondary schools requested access to primary source materials but,
at the same time, found that "primariness" itself made these materials
difficult for their students to use.


OTHER TOPICS

Marybeth PETERS reviewed copyright law in the United States and offered
advice during a lively discussion of this subject.  But uncertainty
remains concerning the price of copyright in a digital medium, because a
solution remains to be worked out concerning management and synthesis of
copyrighted and out-of-copyright pieces of a database.

As moderator of the final session of the Workshop, Prosser GIFFORD directed
discussion to future courses of action and the potential role of LC in
advancing them.  Among the recommendations that emerged were the following:

     * Workshop participants should 1) begin to think about working
     with image material, but structure and digitize it in such a
     way that at a later stage it can be interpreted into text, and
     2) find a common way to build text and images together so that
     they can be used jointly at some stage in the future, with
     appropriate network support, because that is how users will want
     to access these materials.  The Library might encourage attempts
     to bring together people who are working on texts and images.

     * A network version of American Memory should be developed or
     consideration should be given to making the data in it
     available to people interested in doing network multimedia.
     Given the current dearth of digital data that is appealing and
     unencumbered by extremely complex rights problems, developing a
     network version of American Memory could do much to help make
     network multimedia a reality.

     * Concerning the thorny issue of electronic deposit, LC should
     initiate a catalytic process in terms of distributed
     responsibility, that is, bring together the distributed
     organizations and set up a study group to look at all the
     issues related to electronic deposit and see where we as a
     nation should move.  For example, LC might attempt to persuade
     one major library in each state to deal with its state
     equivalent publisher, which might produce a cooperative project
     that would be equitably distributed around the country, and one
     in which LC would be dealing with a minimal number of publishers
     and minimal copyright problems.  LC must also deal with the
     concept of on-line publishing, determining, among other things,
     how serials such as OJCCT might be deposited for copyright.

     * Since a number of projects are planning to carry out
     preservation by creating digital images that will end up in
     on-line or near-line storage at some institution, LC might play
     a helpful role, at least in the near term, by accelerating how
     to catalog that information into the Research Library Information
     Network (RLIN) and then into OCLC, so that it would be accessible.
     This would reduce the possibility of multiple institutions digitizing
     the same work.


CONCLUSION

The Workshop was valuable because it brought together partisans from
various groups and provided an occasion to compare goals and methods.
The more committed partisans frequently communicate with others in their
groups, but less often across group boundaries.  The Workshop was also
valuable to attendees--including those involved with American Memory--who
came less committed to particular approaches or concepts.  These
attendees learned a great deal, and plan to select and employ elements of
imaging, text-coding, and networked distribution that suit their
respective projects and purposes.

Still, reality rears its ugly head:  no breakthrough has been achieved.
On the imaging side, one confronts a proliferation of competing
data-interchange standards and a lack of consensus on the role of digital
facsimiles in preservation.  In the realm of machine-readable texts, one
encounters a reasonably mature standard but methodological difficulties
and high costs.  These latter problems, of course, represent a special
impediment to the desire, as it is sometimes expressed in the popular
press, "to put the [contents of the] Library of Congress on line."  In
the words of one participant, there was "no solution to the economic
problems--the projects that are out there are surviving, but it is going
to be a lot of work to transform the information industry, and so far the
investment to do that is not forthcoming" (LESK, per litteras).


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                               PROCEEDINGS


WELCOME

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
GIFFORD * Origin of Workshop in current Librarian's desire to make LC's
collections more widely available * Desiderata arising from the prospect
of greater interconnectedness *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

After welcoming participants on behalf of the Library of Congress,
American Memory (AM), and the National Demonstration Lab, Prosser
GIFFORD, director for scholarly programs, Library of Congress, located
the origin of the Workshop on Electronic Texts in a conversation he had
had considerably more than a year ago with Carl FLEISCHHAUER concerning
some of the issues faced by AM.  On the assumption that numerous other
people were asking the same questions, the decision was made to bring
together as many of these people as possible to ask the same questions
together.  In a deeper sense, GIFFORD said, the origin of the Workshop
lay in the desire of the current Librarian of Congress, James H.
Billington, to make the collections of the Library, especially those
offering unique or unusual testimony on aspects of the American
experience, available to a much wider circle of users than those few
people who can come to Washington to use them.  This meant that the
emphasis of AM, from the outset, has been on archival collections of the
basic material, and on making these collections themselves available,
rather than selected or heavily edited products.

From AM's emphasis followed the questions with which the Workshop began:
who will use these materials, and in what form will they wish to use
them.  But an even larger issue deserving mention, in GIFFORD's view, was
the phenomenal growth in Internet connectivity.  He expressed the hope
that the prospect of greater interconnectedness than ever before would
lead to:  1) much more cooperative and mutually supportive endeavors; 2)
development of systems of shared and distributed responsibilities to
avoid duplication and to ensure accuracy and preservation of unique
materials; and 3) agreement on the necessary standards and development of
the appropriate directories and indices to make navigation
straightforward among the varied resources that are, and increasingly
will be, available.  In this connection, GIFFORD requested that
participants reflect from the outset upon the sorts of outcomes they
thought the Workshop might have.  Did those present constitute a group
with sufficient common interests to propose a next step or next steps,
and if so, what might those be?  They would return to these questions the
following afternoon.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
FLEISCHHAUER * Core of Workshop concerns preparation and production of
materials * Special challenge in conversion of textual materials *
Quality versus quantity * Do the several groups represented share common
interests? *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Carl FLEISCHHAUER, coordinator, American Memory, Library of Congress,
emphasized that he would attempt to represent the people who perform some
of the work of converting or preparing  materials and that the core of
the Workshop had to do with preparation and production.  FLEISCHHAUER
then drew a distinction between the long term, when many things would be
available and connected in the ways that GIFFORD described, and the short
term, in which AM not only has wrestled with the issue of what is the
best course to pursue but also has faced a variety of technical
challenges.

FLEISCHHAUER remarked AM's endeavors to deal with a wide range of library
formats, such as motion picture collections, sound-recording collections,
and pictorial collections of various sorts, especially collections of
photographs.  In the course of these efforts, AM kept coming back to
textual materials--manuscripts or rare printed matter, bound materials,
etc.  Text posed the greatest conversion challenge of all.  Thus, the
genesis of the Workshop, which reflects the problems faced by AM.  These
problems include physical problems.  For example, those in the library
and archive business deal with collections made up of fragile and rare
manuscript items, bound materials, especially the notoriously brittle
bound materials of the late nineteenth century.  These are precious
cultural artifacts, however, as well as interesting sources of
information, and LC desires to retain and conserve them.  AM needs to
handle things without damaging them.  Guillotining a book to run it
through a sheet feeder must be avoided at all costs.

Beyond physical problems, issues pertaining to quality arose.  For
example, the desire to provide users with a searchable text is affected
by the question of acceptable level of accuracy.  One hundred percent
accuracy is tremendously expensive.  On the other hand, the output of
optical character recognition (OCR) can be tremendously inaccurate.
Although AM has attempted to find a middle ground, uncertainty persists
as to whether or not it has discovered the right solution.

Questions of quality arose concerning images as well.  FLEISCHHAUER
contrasted the extremely high level of quality of the digital images in
the Cornell Xerox Project with AM's efforts to provide a browse-quality
or access-quality image, as opposed to an archival or preservation image.
FLEISCHHAUER therefore welcomed the opportunity to compare notes.

FLEISCHHAUER observed in passing that conversations he had had about
networks have begun to signal that for various forms of media a
determination may be made that there is a browse-quality item, or a
distribution-and-access-quality item that may coexist in some systems
with a higher quality archival item that would be inconvenient to send
through the network because of its size.  FLEISCHHAUER referred, of
course, to images more than to searchable text.

As AM considered those questions, several conceptual issues arose:  ought
AM occasionally to reproduce materials entirely through an image set, at
other times, entirely through a text set, and in some cases, a mix?
There probably would be times when the historical authenticity of an
artifact would require that its image be used.  An image might be
desirable as a recourse for users if one could not provide 100-percent
accurate text.  Again, AM wondered, as a practical matter, if a
distinction could be drawn between rare printed matter that might exist
in multiple collections--that is, in ten or fifteen libraries.  In such
cases, the need for perfect reproduction would be less than for unique
items.  Implicit in his remarks, FLEISCHHAUER conceded, was the admission
that AM has been tilting strongly towards quantity and drawing back a
little from perfect quality.  That is, it seemed to AM that society would
be better served if more things were distributed by LC--even if they were
not quite perfect--than if fewer things, perfectly represented, were
distributed.  This was stated as a proposition to be tested, with
responses to be gathered from users.

In thinking about issues related to reproduction of materials and seeing
other people engaged in parallel activities, AM deemed it useful to
convene a conference.  Hence, the Workshop.  FLEISCHHAUER thereupon
surveyed the several groups represented:  1) the world of images (image
users and image makers); 2) the world of text and scholarship and, within
this group, those concerned with language--FLEISCHHAUER confessed to finding
delightful irony in the fact that some of the most advanced thinkers on
computerized texts are those dealing with ancient Greek and Roman materials;
3) the network world; and 4) the general world of library science, which
includes people interested in preservation and cataloging.

FLEISCHHAUER concluded his remarks with special thanks to the David and
Lucile Packard Foundation for its support of the meeting, the American
Memory group, the Office for Scholarly Programs, the National
Demonstration Lab, and the Office of Special Events.  He expressed the
hope that David Woodley Packard might be able to attend, noting that
Packard's work and the work of the foundation had sponsored a number of
projects in the text area.

                                 ******

SESSION I.  CONTENT IN A NEW FORM:   WHO WILL USE IT AND WHAT WILL THEY DO?

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DALY * Acknowledgements * A new Latin authors disk *  Effects of the new
technology on previous methods of research *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Serving as moderator, James DALY acknowledged the generosity of all the
presenters for giving of their time, counsel, and patience in planning
the Workshop, as well as of members of the American Memory project and
other Library of Congress staff, and the David and Lucile Packard
Foundation and its executive director, Colburn S. Wilbur.

DALY then recounted his visit in March to the Center for Electronic Texts
in the Humanities (CETH) and the Department of Classics at Rutgers
University, where an old friend, Lowell Edmunds, introduced him to the
department's IBYCUS scholarly personal computer, and, in particular, the
new Latin CD-ROM, containing, among other things, almost all classical
Latin literary texts through A.D. 200.  Packard Humanities Institute
(PHI), Los Altos, California, released this disk late in 1991, with a
nominal triennial licensing fee.

Playing with the disk for an hour or so at Rutgers brought home to DALY
at once the revolutionizing impact of the new technology on his previous
methods of research.  Had this disk been available two or three years
earlier, DALY contended, when he was engaged in preparing a commentary on
Book 10 of Virgil's Aeneid for Cambridge University Press, he would not
have required a forty-eight-square-foot table on which to spread the
numerous, most frequently consulted items, including some ten or twelve
concordances to key Latin authors, an almost equal number of lexica to
authors who lacked concordances, and where either lexica or concordances
were lacking, numerous editions of authors antedating and postdating Virgil.

Nor, when checking each of the average six to seven words contained in
the Virgilian hexameter for its usage elsewhere in Virgil's works or
other Latin authors, would DALY have had to maintain the laborious
mechanical process of flipping through these concordances, lexica, and
editions each time.  Nor would he have had to frequent as often the
Milton S. Eisenhower Library at the Johns Hopkins University to consult
the Thesaurus Linguae Latinae.  Instead of devoting countless hours, or
the bulk of his research time, to gathering data concerning Virgil's use
of words, DALY--now freed by PHI's Latin authors disk from the
tyrannical, yet in some ways paradoxically happy scholarly drudgery--
would have been able to devote that same bulk of time to analyzing and
interpreting Virgilian verbal usage.

Citing Theodore Brunner, Gregory Crane, Elli MYLONAS, and Avra MICHELSON,
DALY argued that this reversal in his style of work, made possible by the
new technology, would perhaps have resulted in better, more productive
research.  Indeed, even in the course of his browsing the Latin authors
disk at Rutgers, its powerful search, retrieval, and highlighting
capabilities suggested to him several new avenues of research into
Virgil's use of sound effects.  This anecdotal account, DALY maintained,
may serve to illustrate in part the sudden and radical transformation
being wrought in the ways scholars work.

                                 ******

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
MICHELSON * Elements related to scholarship and technology * Electronic
texts within the context of broader trends within information technology
and scholarly communication * Evaluation of the prospects for the use of
electronic texts * Relationship of electronic texts to processes of
scholarly communication in humanities research * New exchange formats
created by scholars * Projects initiated to increase scholarly access to
converted text * Trend toward making electronic resources available
through research and education networks * Changes taking place in
scholarly communication among humanities scholars * Network-mediated
scholarship transforming traditional scholarly practices * Key
information technology trends affecting the conduct of scholarly
communication over the next decade * The trend toward end-user computing
* The trend toward greater connectivity * Effects of these trends * Key
transformations taking place * Summary of principal arguments *
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Avra MICHELSON, Archival Research and Evaluation Staff, National Archives
and Records Administration (NARA), argued that establishing who will use
electronic texts and what they will use them for involves a consideration
of both information technology and scholarship trends.  This
consideration includes several elements related to scholarship and
technology:  1) the key trends in information technology that are most
relevant to scholarship; 2) the key trends in the use of currently
available technology by scholars in the nonscientific community; and 3)
the relationship between these two very distinct but interrelated trends.
The investment in understanding this relationship being made by
information providers, technologists, and public policy developers, as
well as by scholars themselves, seems to be pervasive and growing,
MICHELSON contended.  She drew on collaborative work with Jeff Rothenberg
on the scholarly use of technology.

MICHELSON sought to place the phenomenon of electronic texts within the
context of broader trends within information technology and scholarly
communication.  She argued that electronic texts are of most use to
researchers to the extent that the researchers' working context (i.e.,
their relevant bibliographic sources, collegial feedback, analytic tools,
notes, drafts, etc.), along with their field's primary and secondary
sources, also is accessible in electronic form and can be integrated in
ways that are unique to the on-line environment.

Evaluation of the prospects for the use of electronic texts includes two
elements:  1) an examination of the ways in which researchers currently
are using electronic texts along with other electronic resources, and 2)
an analysis of key information technology trends that are affecting the
long-term conduct of scholarly communication.  MICHELSON limited her
discussion of the use of electronic texts to the practices of humanists
and noted that the scientific community was outside the panel's overview.

MICHELSON examined the nature of the current relationship of electronic
texts in particular, and electronic resources in general, to what she
maintained were, essentially, five processes of scholarly communication
in humanities research.  Researchers 1) identify sources, 2) communicate
with their colleagues, 3) interpret and analyze data, 4) disseminate
their research findings, and 5) prepare curricula to instruct the next
generation of scholars and students.  This examination would produce a
clearer understanding of the synergy among these five processes that
fuels the tendency of the use of electronic resources for one process to
stimulate its use for other processes of scholarly communication.

For the first process of scholarly communication, the identification of
sources, MICHELSON remarked the opportunity scholars now enjoy to
supplement traditional word-of-mouth searches for sources among their
colleagues with new forms of electronic searching.  So, for example,
instead of having to visit the library, researchers are able to explore
descriptions of holdings in their offices.  Furthermore, if their own
institutions' holdings prove insufficient, scholars can access more than
200 major American library catalogues over Internet, including the
universities of California, Michigan, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin.
Direct access to the bibliographic databases offers intellectual
empowerment to scholars by presenting a comprehensive means of browsing
through libraries from their homes and offices at their convenience.

The second process of communication involves communication among
scholars.  Beyond the most common methods of communication, scholars are
using E-mail and a variety of new electronic communications formats
derived from it for further academic interchange.  E-mail exchanges are
growing at an astonishing rate, reportedly 15 percent a month.  They
currently constitute approximately half the traffic on research and
education networks.  Moreover, the global spread of E-mail has been so
rapid that it is now possible for American scholars to use it to
communicate with colleagues in close to 140 other countries.

Other new exchange formats created by scholars and operating on Internet
include more than 700 conferences, with about 80 percent of these devoted
to topics in the social sciences and humanities.  The rate of growth of
these scholarly electronic conferences also is astonishing.  From l990 to
l991, 200 new conferences were identified on Internet.  From October 1991
to June 1992, an additional 150 conferences in the social sciences and
humanities were added to this directory of listings.  Scholars have
established conferences in virtually every field, within every different
discipline.  For example, there are currently close to 600 active social
science and humanities  conferences on topics such as art and
architecture, ethnomusicology, folklore, Japanese culture, medical
education, and gifted and talented education.  The appeal to scholars of
communicating through these conferences is that, unlike any other medium,
electronic conferences today provide a forum for global communication
with peers at the front end of the research process.

Interpretation and analysis of sources constitutes the third process of
scholarly communication that MICHELSON discussed in terms of texts and
textual resources.  The methods used to analyze sources fall somewhere on
a continuum from quantitative analysis to qualitative analysis.
Typically, evidence is culled and evaluated using methods drawn from both
ends of this continuum.  At one end, quantitative analysis involves the
use of mathematical processes such as a count of frequencies and
distributions of occurrences or, on a higher level, regression analysis.
At the other end of the continuum, qualitative analysis typically
involves nonmathematical processes oriented toward language
interpretation or the building of theory.  Aspects of this work involve
the processing--either manual or computational--of large and sometimes
massive amounts of textual sources, although the use of nontextual
sources as evidence, such as photographs, sound recordings, film footage,
and artifacts, is significant as well.

Scholars have discovered that many of the methods of interpretation and
analysis that are related to both quantitative and qualitative methods
are processes that can be performed by computers.  For example, computers
can count.  They can count brush strokes used in a Rembrandt painting or
perform regression analysis for understanding cause and effect.  By means
of advanced technologies, computers can recognize patterns, analyze text,
and model concepts.  Furthermore, computers can complete these processes
faster with more sources and with greater precision than scholars who
must rely on manual interpretation of data.  But if scholars are to use
computers for these processes, source materials must be in a form
amenable to computer-assisted analysis.  For this reason many scholars,
once they have identified the sources that are key to their research, are
converting them to machine-readable form.  Thus, a representative example
of the numerous textual conversion projects organized by scholars around
the world in recent years to support computational text analysis is the
TLG, the Thesaurus Linguae Graecae.  This project is devoted to
converting the extant ancient texts of classical Greece.  (Editor's note:
according to the TLG Newsletter of May l992, TLG was in use in thirty-two
different countries.  This figure updates MICHELSON's previous count by one.)

The scholars performing these conversions have been asked to recognize
that the electronic sources they are converting for one use possess value
for other research purposes as well.  As a result, during the past few
years, humanities scholars have initiated a number of projects to
increase scholarly access to converted text.  So, for example, the Text
Encoding Initiative (TEI), about which more is said later in the program,
was established as an effort by scholars to determine standard elements
and methods for encoding machine-readable text for electronic exchange.
In a second effort to facilitate the sharing of converted text, scholars
have created a new institution, the Center for Electronic Texts in the
Humanities (CETH).  The center estimates that there are 8,000 series of
source texts in the humanities that have been converted to
machine-readable form worldwide.  CETH is undertaking an international
search for converted text in the humanities, compiling it into an
electronic library, and preparing bibliographic descriptions of the
sources for the Research Libraries Information Network's (RLIN)
machine-readable data file.  The library profession has begun to initiate
large conversion projects as well, such as American Memory.

While scholars have been making converted text available to one another,
typically on disk or on CD-ROM, the clear trend is toward making these
resources available through research and education networks.  Thus, the
American and French Research on the Treasury of the French Language
(ARTFL) and the Dante Project are already available on Internet.
MICHELSON summarized this section on interpretation and analysis by
noting that:  1) increasing numbers of humanities scholars in the library
community are recognizing the importance to the advancement of
scholarship of retrospective conversion of source materials in the arts
and humanities; and 2) there is a growing realization that making the
sources available on research and education networks maximizes their
usefulness for the analysis performed by humanities scholars.

The fourth process of scholarly communication is dissemination of
research findings, that is, publication.  Scholars are using existing
research and education networks to engineer a new type of publication:
scholarly-controlled journals that are electronically produced and
disseminated.  Although such journals are still emerging as a
communication format, their number has grown, from approximately twelve
to thirty-six during the past year (July 1991 to June 1992).  Most of
these electronic scholarly journals are devoted to topics in the
humanities.  As with network conferences, scholarly enthusiasm for these
electronic journals stems from the medium's unique ability to advance
scholarship in a way that no other medium can do by supporting global
feedback and interchange, practically in real time, early in the research
process.  Beyond scholarly journals, MICHELSON remarked the delivery of
commercial full-text products, such as articles in professional journals,
newsletters, magazines, wire services, and reference sources.  These are
being delivered via on-line local library catalogues, especially through
CD-ROMs.  Furthermore, according to MICHELSON, there is general optimism
that the copyright and fees issues impeding the delivery of full text on
existing research and education networks soon will be resolved.

The final process of scholarly communication is curriculum development
and instruction, and this involves the use of computer information
technologies in two areas.  The first is the development of
computer-oriented instructional tools, which includes simulations,
multimedia applications, and computer tools that are used to assist in
the analysis of sources in the classroom, etc.  The Perseus Project, a
database that provides a multimedia curriculum on classical Greek
civilization, is a good example of the way in which entire curricula are
being recast using information technologies.  It is anticipated that the
current difficulty in exchanging electronically computer-based
instructional software, which in turn makes it difficult for one scholar
to build upon the work of others, will be resolved before too long.
Stand-alone curricular applications that involve electronic text will be
sharable through networks, reinforcing their significance as intellectual
products as well as instructional tools.

The second aspect of electronic learning involves the use of research and
education networks for distance education programs.  Such programs
interactively link teachers with students in geographically scattered
locations and rely on the availability of electronic instructional
resources.  Distance education programs are gaining wide appeal among
state departments of education because of their demonstrated capacity to
bring advanced specialized course work and an array of experts to many
classrooms.  A recent report found that at least 32 states operated at
least one statewide network for education in 1991, with networks under
development in many of the remaining states.

MICHELSON summarized this section by noting two striking changes taking
place in scholarly communication among humanities scholars.  First is the
extent to which electronic text in particular, and electronic resources
in general, are being infused into each of the five processes described
above.  As mentioned earlier, there is a certain synergy at work here.
The use of electronic resources for one process tends to stimulate its
use for other processes, because the chief course of movement is toward a
comprehensive on-line working context for humanities scholars that
includes on-line availability of key bibliographies, scholarly feedback,
sources, analytical tools, and publications.  MICHELSON noted further
that the movement toward a comprehensive on-line working context for
humanities scholars is not new.  In fact, it has been underway for more
than forty years in the humanities, since Father Roberto Busa began
developing an electronic concordance of the works of Saint Thomas Aquinas
in 1949.  What we are witnessing today, MICHELSON contended, is not the
beginning of this on-line transition but, for at least some humanities
scholars, the turning point in the transition from a print to an
electronic working context.  Coinciding with the on-line transition, the
second striking change is the extent to which research and education
networks are becoming the new medium of scholarly communication.  The
existing Internet and the pending National Education and Research Network
(NREN) represent the new meeting ground where scholars are going for
bibliographic information, scholarly dialogue and feedback, the most
current publications in their field, and high-level educational
offerings.  Traditional scholarly practices are undergoing tremendous
transformations as a result of the emergence and growing prominence of
what is called network-mediated scholarship.

MICHELSON next turned to the second element of the framework she proposed
at the outset of her talk for evaluating the prospects for electronic
text, namely the key information technology trends affecting the conduct
of scholarly communication over the next decade:  1) end-user computing
and 2) connectivity.

End-user computing means that the person touching the keyboard, or
performing computations, is the same as the person who initiates or
consumes the computation.  The emergence of personal computers, along
with a host of other forces, such as ubiquitous computing, advances in
interface design, and the on-line transition, is prompting the consumers
of computation to do their own computing, and is thus rendering obsolete
the traditional distinction between end users and ultimate users.

The trend toward end-user computing is significant to consideration of
the prospects for electronic texts because it means that researchers are
becoming more adept at doing their own computations and, thus, more
competent in the use of electronic media.  By avoiding programmer
intermediaries, computation is becoming central to the researcher's
thought process.  This direct involvement in computing is changing the
researcher's perspective on the nature of research itself, that is, the
kinds of questions that can be posed, the analytical methodologies that
can be used, the types and amount of sources that are appropriate for
analyses, and the form in which findings are presented.  The trend toward
end-user computing means that, increasingly, electronic media and
computation are being infused into all processes of humanities
scholarship, inspiring remarkable transformations in scholarly
communication.

The trend toward greater connectivity suggests that researchers are using
computation increasingly in network environments.  Connectivity is
important to scholarship because it erases the distance that separates
students from teachers and scholars from their colleagues, while allowing
users to access remote databases, share information in many different
media, connect to their working context wherever they are, and
collaborate in all phases of research.

The combination of the trend toward end-user computing and the trend
toward connectivity suggests that the scholarly use of electronic
resources, already evident among some researchers, will soon become an
established feature of scholarship.  The effects of these trends, along
with ongoing changes in scholarly practices, point to a future in which
humanities researchers will use computation and electronic communication
to help them formulate ideas, access sources, perform research,
collaborate with colleagues, seek peer review, publish and disseminate
results, and engage in many other professional and educational activities.

In summary, MICHELSON emphasized four points:  1) A portion of humanities
scholars already consider electronic texts the preferred format for
analysis and dissemination.  2) Scholars are using these electronic
texts, in conjunction with other electronic resources, in all the
processes of scholarly communication.  3) The humanities scholars'
working context is in the process of changing from print technology to
electronic technology, in many ways mirroring transformations that have
occurred or are occurring within the scientific community.  4) These
changes are occurring in conjunction with the development of a new
communication medium:  research and education networks that are
characterized by their capacity to advance scholarship in a wholly unique
way.

MICHELSON also reiterated her three principal arguments:  l) Electronic
texts are best understood in terms of the relationship to other
electronic resources and the growing prominence of network-mediated
scholarship.  2) The prospects for electronic texts lie in their capacity
to be integrated into the on-line network of electronic resources that
comprise the new working context for scholars.  3) Retrospective conversion
of portions of the scholarly record should be a key strategy as information
providers respond to changes in scholarly communication practices.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
VECCIA * AM's evaluation project and public users of electronic resources
* AM and its design * Site selection and evaluating the Macintosh
implementation of AM * Characteristics of the six public libraries
selected * Characteristics of AM's users in these libraries * Principal
ways AM is being used *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Susan VECCIA, team leader, and Joanne FREEMAN, associate coordinator,
American Memory, Library of Congress, gave a joint presentation.  First,
by way of introduction, VECCIA explained her and FREEMAN's roles in
American Memory (AM).  Serving principally as an observer, VECCIA has
assisted with the evaluation project of AM, placing AM collections in a
variety of different sites around the country and helping to organize and
implement that project.  FREEMAN has been an associate coordinator of AM
and has been involved principally with the interpretative materials,
preparing some of the electronic exhibits and printed historical
information that accompanies AM and that is requested by users.  VECCIA
and FREEMAN shared anecdotal observations concerning AM with public users
of electronic resources.  Notwithstanding a fairly structured evaluation
in progress, both VECCIA and FREEMAN chose not to report on specifics in
terms of numbers, etc., because they felt it was too early in the
evaluation project to do so.

AM is an electronic archive of primary source materials from the Library
of Congress, selected collections representing a variety of formats--
photographs, graphic arts, recorded sound, motion pictures, broadsides,
and soon, pamphlets and books.  In terms of the design of this system,
the interpretative exhibits have been kept separate from the primary
resources, with good reason.  Accompanying this collection are printed
documentation and user guides, as well as guides that FREEMAN prepared for
teachers so that they may begin using the content of the system at once.

VECCIA described the evaluation project before talking about the public
users of AM, limiting her remarks to public libraries, because FREEMAN
would talk more specifically about schools from kindergarten to twelfth
grade (K-12).   Having started in spring 1991, the evaluation currently
involves testing of the Macintosh implementation of AM.  Since the
primary goal of this evaluation is to determine the most appropriate
audience or audiences for AM, very different sites were selected.  This
makes evaluation difficult because of the varying degrees of technology
literacy among the sites.  AM is situated in forty-four locations, of
which six are public libraries and sixteen are schools.  Represented
among the schools are elementary, junior high, and high schools.
District offices also are involved in the evaluation, which will
conclude in summer 1993.

VECCIA focused the remainder of her talk on the six public libraries, one
of which doubles as a state library.  They represent a range of
geographic areas and a range of demographic characteristics.  For
example, three are located in urban settings, two in rural settings, and
one in a suburban setting.  A range of technical expertise is to be found
among these facilities as well.  For example, one is an "Apple library of
the future," while two others are rural one-room libraries--in one, AM
sits at the front desk next to a tractor manual.

All public libraries have been extremely enthusiastic, supportive, and
appreciative of the work that AM has been doing.  VECCIA characterized
various users:  Most users in public libraries describe themselves as
general readers; of the students who use AM in the public libraries,
those in fourth grade and above seem most interested.  Public libraries
in rural sites tend to attract retired people, who have been highly
receptive to AM.  Users tend to fall into two additional categories:
people interested in the content and historical connotations of these
primary resources, and those fascinated by the technology.  The format
receiving the most comments has been motion pictures.  The adult users in
public libraries are more comfortable with IBM computers, whereas young
people seem comfortable with either IBM or Macintosh, although most of
them seem to come from a Macintosh background.  This same tendency is
found in the schools.

What kinds of things do users do with AM?  In a public library there are
two main goals or ways that AM is being used:  as an individual learning
tool, and as a leisure activity.  Adult learning was one area that VECCIA
would highlight as a possible application for a tool such as AM.  She
described a patron of a rural public library who comes in every day on
his lunch hour and literally reads AM, methodically going through the
collection image by image.  At the end of his hour he makes an electronic
bookmark, puts it in his pocket, and returns to work.  The next day he
comes in and resumes where he left off.  Interestingly, this man had
never been in the library before he used AM.  In another small, rural
library, the coordinator reports that AM is a popular activity for some
of the older, retired people in the community, who ordinarily would not
use "those things,"--computers.  Another example of adult learning in
public libraries is book groups, one of which, in particular, is using AM
as part of its reading on industrialization, integration, and urbanization
in the early 1900s.

One library reports that a family is using AM to help educate their
children.  In another instance, individuals from a local museum came in
to use AM to prepare an exhibit on toys of the past.  These two examples
emphasize the mission of the public library as a cultural institution,
reaching out to people who do not have the same resources available to
those who live in a metropolitan area or have access to a major library.
One rural library reports that junior high school students in large
numbers came in one afternoon to use AM for entertainment.  A number of
public libraries reported great interest among postcard collectors in the
Detroit collection, which was essentially a collection of images used on
postcards around the turn of the century.  Train buffs are similarly
interested because that was a time of great interest in railroading.
People, it was found, relate to things that they know of firsthand.  For
example, in both rural public libraries where AM was made available,
observers reported that the older people with personal remembrances of
the turn of the century were gravitating to the Detroit collection.
These examples served to underscore MICHELSON's observation re the
integration of electronic tools and ideas--that people learn best when
the material relates to something they know.

VECCIA made the final point that in many cases AM serves as a
public-relations tool for the public libraries that are testing it.  In
one case, AM is being used as a vehicle to secure additional funding for
the library.  In another case, AM has served as an inspiration to the
staff of a major local public library in the South to think about ways to
make its own collection of photographs more accessible to the public.

                                  ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
FREEMAN * AM and archival electronic resources in a school environment *
Questions concerning context * Questions concerning the electronic format
itself * Computer anxiety * Access and availability of the system *
Hardware * Strengths gained through the use of archival resources in
schools *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Reiterating an observation made by VECCIA, that AM is an archival
resource made up of primary materials with very little interpretation,
FREEMAN stated that the project has attempted to bridge the gap between
these bare primary materials and a school environment, and in that cause
has created guided introductions to AM collections.  Loud demand from the
educational community,  chiefly from teachers working with the upper
grades of elementary school through high school, greeted the announcement
that AM would be tested around the country.

FREEMAN reported not only on what was learned about AM in a school
environment, but also on several universal questions that were raised
concerning archival electronic resources in schools.  She discussed
several strengths of this type of material in a school environment as
opposed to a highly structured resource that offers a limited number of
paths to follow.

FREEMAN first raised several questions about using AM in a school
environment.  There is often some difficulty in developing a sense of
what the system contains.  Many students sit down at a computer resource
and assume that, because AM comes from the Library of Congress, all of
American history is now at their fingertips.  As a result of that sort of
mistaken judgment, some students are known to conclude that AM contains
nothing of use to them when they look for one or two things and do not
find them.  It is difficult to discover that middle ground where one has
a sense of what the system contains.  Some students grope toward the idea
of an archive, a new idea to them, since they have not previously
experienced what it means to have access to a vast body of somewhat
random information.

Other questions raised by FREEMAN concerned the electronic format itself.
For instance, in a school environment it is often difficult both for
teachers and students to gain a sense of what it is they are viewing.
They understand that it is a visual image, but they do not necessarily
know that it is a postcard from the turn of the century, a panoramic
photograph, or even machine-readable text of an eighteenth-century
broadside, a twentieth-century printed book, or a nineteenth-century
diary.  That distinction is often difficult for people in a school
environment to grasp.  Because of that, it occasionally becomes difficult
to draw conclusions from what one is viewing.

FREEMAN also noted the obvious fear of the computer, which constitutes a
difficulty in using an electronic resource.  Though students in general
did not suffer from this anxiety, several older students feared that they
were computer-illiterate, an assumption that became self-fulfilling when
they searched for something but failed to find it.  FREEMAN said she
believed that some teachers also fear computer resources, because they
believe they lack complete control.  FREEMAN related the example of
teachers shooing away students because it was not their time to use the
system.  This was a case in which the situation had to be extremely
structured so that the teachers would not feel that they had lost their
grasp on what the system contained.

A final question raised by FREEMAN concerned access and availability of
the system.  She noted the occasional existence of a gap in communication
between school librarians and teachers.  Often AM sits in a school
library and the librarian is the person responsible for monitoring the
system.  Teachers do not always take into their world new library
resources about which the librarian is excited.  Indeed, at the sites
where AM had been used most effectively within a library, the librarian
was required to go to specific teachers and instruct them in its use.  As
a result, several AM sites will have in-service sessions over a summer,
in the hope that perhaps, with a more individualized link, teachers will
be more likely to use the resource.

A related issue in the school context concerned the number of
workstations available at any one location.  Centralization of equipment
at the district level, with teachers invited to download things and walk
away with them, proved unsuccessful because the hours these offices were
open were also school hours.

Another issue was hardware.  As VECCIA observed, a range of sites exists,
some technologically advanced and others essentially acquiring their
first computer for the primary purpose of using it in conjunction with
AM's testing.  Users at technologically sophisticated sites want even
more sophisticated hardware, so that they can perform even more
sophisticated tasks with the materials in AM.  But once they acquire a
newer piece of hardware, they must learn how to use that also; at an
unsophisticated site it takes an extremely long time simply to become
accustomed to the computer, not to mention the program offered with the
computer.  All of these small issues raise one large question, namely,
are systems like AM truly rewarding in a school environment, or do they
simply act as innovative toys that do little more than spark interest?

FREEMAN contended that the evaluation project has revealed several strengths
that were gained through the use of archival resources in schools, including:

     * Psychic rewards from using AM as a vast, rich database, with
     teachers assigning various projects to students--oral presentations,
     written reports, a documentary, a turn-of-the-century newspaper--
     projects that start with the materials in AM but are completed using
     other resources; AM thus is used as a research tool in conjunction
     with other electronic resources, as well as with books and items in
     the library where the system is set up.

     * Students are acquiring computer literacy in a humanities context.

     * This sort of system is overcoming the isolation between disciplines
     that often exists in schools.  For example, many English teachers are
     requiring their students to write papers on historical topics
     represented in AM.  Numerous teachers have reported that their
     students are learning critical thinking skills using the system.

     * On a broader level, AM is introducing primary materials, not only
     to students but also to teachers, in an environment where often
     simply none exist--an exciting thing for the students because it
     helps them learn to conduct research, to interpret, and to draw
     their own conclusions.  In learning to conduct research and what it
     means, students are motivated to seek knowledge.  That relates to
     another positive outcome--a high level of personal involvement of
     students with the materials in this system and greater motivation to
     conduct their own research and draw their own conclusions.

     * Perhaps the most ironic strength of these kinds of archival
     electronic resources is that many of the teachers AM interviewed
     were desperate, it is no exaggeration to say, not only for primary
     materials but for unstructured primary materials.  These would, they
     thought, foster personally motivated research, exploration, and
     excitement in their students.  Indeed, these materials have done
     just that.  Ironically, however, this lack of structure produces
     some of the confusion to which the newness of these kinds of
     resources may also contribute.  The key to effective use of archival
     products in a school environment is a clear, effective introduction
     to the system and to what it contains.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Nothing known, quantitatively, about the number of
humanities scholars who must see the original versus those who would
settle for an edited transcript, or about the ways in which humanities
scholars are using information technology * Firm conclusions concerning
the manner and extent of the use of supporting materials in print
provided by AM to await completion of evaluative study * A listener's
reflections on additional applications of electronic texts * Role of
electronic resources in teaching elementary research skills to students *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the discussion that followed the presentations by MICHELSON,
VECCIA, and FREEMAN, additional points emerged.

LESK asked if MICHELSON could give any quantitative estimate of the
number of humanities scholars who must see or want to see the original,
or the best possible version of the material, versus those who typically
would settle for an edited transcript.  While unable to provide a figure,
she offered her impressions as an archivist who has done some reference
work and has discussed this issue with other archivists who perform
reference, that those who use archives and those who use primary sources
for what would be considered very high-level scholarly research, as
opposed to, say, undergraduate papers, were few in number, especially
given the public interest in using primary sources to conduct
genealogical or avocational research and the kind of professional
research done by people in private industry or the federal government.
More important in MICHELSON's view was that, quantitatively, nothing is
known about the ways in which, for example, humanities scholars are using
information technology.  No studies exist to offer guidance in creating
strategies.  The most recent study was conducted in 1985 by the American
Council of Learned Societies (ACLS), and what it showed was that 50
percent of humanities scholars at that time were using computers.  That
constitutes the extent of our knowledge.

Concerning AM's strategy for orienting people toward the scope of
electronic resources, FREEMAN could offer no hard conclusions at this
point, because she and her colleagues were still waiting to see,
particularly in the schools, what has been made of their efforts.  Within
the system, however, AM has provided what are called electronic exhibits-
-such as introductions to time periods and materials--and these are
intended to offer a student user a sense of what a broadside is  and what
it might tell her or him.  But FREEMAN conceded that the project staff
would have to talk with students next year, after teachers have had a
summer to use the materials, and attempt to discover what the students
were learning from the materials.  In addition, FREEMAN described
supporting materials in print provided by AM at the request of local
teachers during a meeting held at LC.  These included time lines,
bibliographies, and other materials that could be reproduced on a
photocopier in a classroom.  Teachers could walk away with and use these,
and in this way gain a better understanding of the contents.  But again,
reaching firm conclusions concerning the manner and extent of their use
would have to wait until next year.

As to the changes she saw occurring at the National Archives and Records
Administration (NARA) as a result of the increasing emphasis on
technology in scholarly research, MICHELSON stated that NARA at this
point was absorbing the report by her and Jeff Rothenberg addressing
strategies for the archival profession in general, although not for the
National Archives specifically.  NARA is just beginning to establish its
role and what it can do.  In terms of changes and initiatives that NARA
can take, no clear response could be given at this time.

GREENFIELD remarked two trends mentioned in the session.  Reflecting on
DALY's opening comments on how he could have used a Latin collection of
text in an electronic form, he said that at first he thought most scholars
would be unwilling to do that.  But as he thought of that in terms of the
original meaning of research--that is, having already mastered these texts,
researching them for critical and comparative purposes--for the first time,
the electronic format made a lot of sense.  GREENFIELD could envision
growing numbers of scholars learning the new technologies for that very
aspect of their scholarship and for convenience's sake.

Listening to VECCIA and FREEMAN, GREENFIELD thought of an additional
application of electronic texts.  He realized that AM could be used as a
guide to lead someone to original sources.  Students cannot be expected
to have mastered these sources, things they have never known about
before.  Thus, AM is leading them, in theory, to a vast body of
information and giving them a superficial overview of it, enabling them
to select parts of it.  GREENFIELD asked if any evidence exists that this
resource will indeed teach the new user, the K-12 students, how to do
research.  Scholars already know how to do research and are applying
these new tools.  But he wondered why students would go beyond picking
out things that were most exciting to them.

FREEMAN conceded the correctness of GREENFIELD's observation as applied
to a school environment.  The risk is that a student would sit down at a
system, play with it, find some things of interest, and then walk away.
But in the relatively controlled situation of a school library, much will
depend on the instructions a teacher or a librarian gives a student.  She
viewed the situation not as one of fine-tuning research skills but of
involving students at a personal level in understanding and researching
things.  Given the guidance one can receive at school, it then becomes
possible to teach elementary research skills to students, which in fact
one particular librarian said she was teaching her fifth graders.
FREEMAN concluded that introducing the idea of following one's own path
of inquiry, which is essentially what research entails, involves more
than teaching specific skills.  To these comments VECCIA added the
observation that the individual teacher and the use of a creative
resource, rather than AM itself, seemed to make the key difference.
Some schools and some teachers are making excellent use of the nature
of critical thinking and teaching skills, she said.

Concurring with these remarks, DALY closed the session with the thought that
the more that producers produced for teachers and for scholars to use with
their students, the more successful their electronic products would prove.

                                 ******

SESSION II.  SHOW AND TELL

Jacqueline HESS, director, National Demonstration Laboratory, served as
moderator of the "show-and-tell" session.  She noted that a
question-and-answer period would follow each presentation.

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
MYLONAS * Overview and content of Perseus * Perseus' primary materials
exist in a system-independent, archival form * A concession * Textual
aspects of Perseus * Tools to use with the Greek text * Prepared indices
and full-text searches in Perseus * English-Greek word search leads to
close study of words and concepts * Navigating Perseus by tracing down
indices * Using the iconography to perform research *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Elli MYLONAS, managing editor, Perseus Project, Harvard University, first
gave an overview of Perseus, a large, collaborative effort based at
Harvard University but with contributors and collaborators located at
numerous universities and colleges in the United States (e.g., Bowdoin,
Maryland, Pomona, Chicago, Virginia).  Funded primarily by the
Annenberg/CPB Project, with additional funding from Apple, Harvard, and
the Packard Humanities Institute, among others, Perseus is a multimedia,
hypertextual database for teaching and research on classical Greek
civilization, which was released in February 1992 in version 1.0 and
distributed by Yale University Press.

Consisting entirely of primary materials, Perseus includes ancient Greek
texts and translations of those texts; catalog entries--that is, museum
catalog entries, not library catalog entries--on vases, sites, coins,
sculpture, and archaeological objects; maps; and a dictionary, among
other sources.  The number of objects and the objects for which catalog
entries exist are accompanied by thousands of color images, which
constitute a major feature of the database.  Perseus contains
approximately 30 megabytes of text, an amount that will double in
subsequent versions.  In addition to these primary materials, the Perseus
Project has been building tools for using them, making access and
navigation easier, the goal being to build part of the electronic
environment discussed earlier in the morning in which students or
scholars can work with their sources.

The demonstration of Perseus will show only a fraction of the real work
that has gone into it, because the project had to face the dilemma of
what to enter when putting something into machine-readable form:  should
one aim for very high quality or make concessions in order to get the
material in?  Since Perseus decided to opt for very high quality, all of
its primary materials exist in a system-independent--insofar as it is
possible to be system-independent--archival form.  Deciding what that
archival form would be and attaining it required much work and thought.
For example, all the texts are marked up in SGML, which will be made
compatible with the guidelines of the Text Encoding Initiative (TEI) when
they are issued.

Drawings are postscript files, not meeting international standards, but
at least designed to go across platforms.  Images, or rather the real
archival forms, consist of the best available slides, which are being
digitized.  Much of the catalog material exists in database form--a form
that the average user could use, manipulate, and display on a personal
computer, but only at great cost.  Thus, this is where the concession
comes in:  All of this rich, well-marked-up information is stripped of
much of its content; the images are converted into bit-maps and the text
into small formatted chunks.  All this information can then be imported
into HyperCard and run on a mid-range Macintosh, which is what Perseus
users have.  This fact has made it possible for Perseus to attain wide
use fairly rapidly.  Without those archival forms the HyperCard version
being demonstrated could not be made easily, and the project could not
have the potential to move to other forms and machines and software as
they appear, none of which information is in Perseus on the CD.

Of the numerous multimedia aspects of Perseus, MYLONAS focused on the
textual.  Part of what makes Perseus such a pleasure to use, MYLONAS
said, is this effort at seamless integration and the ability to move
around both visual and textual material.  Perseus also made the decision
not to attempt to interpret its material any more than one interprets by
selecting.  But, MYLONAS emphasized, Perseus is not courseware:  No
syllabus exists.  There is no effort to define how one teaches a topic
using Perseus, although the project may eventually collect papers by
people who have used it to teach.  Rather, Perseus aims to provide
primary material in a kind of electronic library, an electronic sandbox,
so to say, in which students and scholars who are working on this
material can explore by themselves.  With that, MYLONAS demonstrated
Perseus, beginning with the Perseus gateway, the first thing one sees
upon opening Perseus--an effort in part to solve the contextualizing
problem--which tells the user what the system contains.

MYLONAS demonstrated only a very small portion, beginning with primary
texts and running off the CD-ROM.  Having selected Aeschylus' Prometheus
Bound, which was viewable in Greek and English pretty much in the same
segments together, MYLONAS demonstrated tools to use with the Greek text,
something not possible with a book:  looking up the dictionary entry form
of an unfamiliar word in Greek after subjecting it to Perseus'
morphological analysis for all the texts.  After finding out about a
word, a user may then decide to see if it is used anywhere else in Greek.
Because vast amounts of indexing support all of the primary material, one
can find out where else all forms of a particular Greek word appear--
often not a trivial matter because Greek is highly inflected.  Further,
since the story of Prometheus has to do with the origins of sacrifice, a
user may wish to study and explore sacrifice in Greek literature; by
typing sacrifice into a small window, a user goes to the English-Greek
word list--something one cannot do without the computer (Perseus has
indexed the definitions of its dictionary)--the string sacrifice appears
in the definitions of these sixty-five words.  One may then find out
where any of those words is used in the work(s) of a particular author.
The English definitions are not lemmatized.

All of the indices driving this kind of usage were originally devised for
speed, MYLONAS observed; in other words, all that kind of information--
all forms of all words, where they exist, the dictionary form they belong
to--were collected into databases, which will expedite searching.  Then
it was discovered that one can do things searching in these databases
that could not be done searching in the full texts.  Thus, although there
are full-text searches in Perseus, much of the work is done behind the
scenes, using prepared indices.  Re the indexing that is done behind the
scenes, MYLONAS pointed out that without the SGML forms of the text, it
could not be done effectively.  Much of this indexing is based on the
structures that are made explicit by the SGML tagging.

It was found that one of the things many of Perseus' non-Greek-reading
users do is start from the dictionary and then move into the close study
of words and concepts via this kind of English-Greek word search, by which
means they might select a concept.  This exercise has been assigned to
students in core courses at Harvard--to study a concept by looking for the
English word in the dictionary, finding the Greek words, and then finding
the words in the Greek but, of course, reading across in the English.
That tells them a great deal about what a translation means as well.

Should one also wish to see images that have to do with sacrifice, that
person would go to the object key word search, which allows one to
perform a similar kind of index retrieval on the database of
archaeological objects.  Without words, pictures are useless; Perseus has
not reached the point where it can do much with images that are not
cataloged.  Thus, although it is possible in Perseus with text and images
to navigate by knowing where one wants to end up--for example, a
red-figure vase from the Boston Museum of Fine Arts--one can perform this
kind of navigation very easily by tracing down indices.  MYLONAS
illustrated several generic scenes of sacrifice on vases.  The features
demonstrated derived from Perseus 1.0; version 2.0 will implement even
better means of retrieval.

MYLONAS closed by looking at one of the pictures and noting again that
one can do a great deal of research using the iconography as well as the
texts.  For instance, students in a core course at Harvard this year were
highly interested in Greek concepts of foreigners and representations of
non-Greeks.  So they performed a great deal of research, both with texts
(e.g., Herodotus) and with iconography on vases and coins, on how the
Greeks portrayed non-Greeks.  At the same time, art historians who study
iconography were also interested, and were able to use this material.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Indexing and searchability of all English words in Perseus *
Several features of Perseus 1.0 * Several levels of customization
possible * Perseus used for general education * Perseus' effects on
education * Contextual information in Perseus * Main challenge and
emphasis of Perseus *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Several points emerged in the discussion that followed MYLONAS's presentation.

Although MYLONAS had not demonstrated Perseus' ability to cross-search
documents, she confirmed that all English words in Perseus are indexed
and can be searched.  So, for example, sacrifice could have been searched
in all texts, the historical essay, and all the catalogue entries with
their descriptions--in short, in all of Perseus.

Boolean logic is not in Perseus 1.0 but will be added to the next
version, although an effort is being made not to restrict Perseus to a
database in which one just performs searching, Boolean or otherwise.  It
is possible to move laterally through the documents by selecting a word
one is interested in and selecting an area of information one is
interested in and trying to look that word up in that area.

Since Perseus was developed in HyperCard, several levels of customization
are possible.  Simple authoring tools exist that allow one to create
annotated paths through the information, which are useful for note-taking
and for guided tours for teaching purposes and for expository writing.
With a little more ingenuity it is possible to begin to add or substitute
material in Perseus.

Perseus has not been used so much for classics education as for general
education, where it seemed to have an impact on the students in the core
course at Harvard (a general required course that students must take in
certain areas).  Students were able to use primary material much more.

The Perseus Project has an evaluation team at the University of Maryland
that has been documenting Perseus' effects on education.  Perseus is very
popular, and anecdotal evidence indicates that it is having an effect at
places other than Harvard, for example, test sites at Ball State
University, Drury College, and numerous small places where opportunities
to use vast amounts of primary data may not exist.  One documented effect
is that archaeological, anthropological, and philological research is
being done by the same person instead of by three different people.

The contextual information in Perseus includes an overview essay, a
fairly linear historical essay on the fifth century B.C. that provides
links into the primary material (e.g., Herodotus, Thucydides, and
Plutarch), via small gray underscoring (on the screen) of linked
passages.  These are handmade links into other material.

To different extents, most of the production work was done at Harvard,
where the people and the equipment are located.  Much of the
collaborative activity involved data collection and structuring, because
the main challenge and the emphasis of Perseus is the gathering of
primary material, that is, building a useful environment for studying
classical Greece, collecting data, and making it useful.
Systems-building is definitely not the main concern.  Thus, much of the
work has involved writing essays, collecting information, rewriting it,
and tagging it.  That can be done off site.  The creative link for the
overview essay as well as for both systems and data was collaborative,
and was forged via E-mail and paper mail with professors at Pomona and
Bowdoin.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
CALALUCA * PLD's principal focus and contribution to scholarship *
Various questions preparatory to beginning the project * Basis for
project * Basic rule in converting PLD * Concerning the images in PLD *
Running PLD under a variety of retrieval softwares * Encoding the
database a hard-fought issue * Various features demonstrated * Importance
of user documentation * Limitations of the CD-ROM version *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Eric CALALUCA, vice president, Chadwyck-Healey, Inc., demonstrated a
software interpretation of the Patrologia Latina Database (PLD).  PLD's
principal focus from the beginning of the project about three-and-a-half
years ago was on converting Migne's Latin series, and in the end,
CALALUCA suggested, conversion of the text will be the major contribution
to scholarship.  CALALUCA stressed that, as possibly the only private
publishing organization at the Workshop, Chadwyck-Healey had sought no
federal funds or national foundation support before embarking upon the
project, but instead had relied upon a great deal of homework and
marketing to accomplish the task of conversion.

Ever since the possibilities of computer-searching have emerged, scholars
in the field of late ancient and early medieval studies (philosophers,
theologians, classicists, and those studying the history of natural law
and the history of the legal development of Western civilization) have
been longing for a fully searchable version of Western literature, for
example, all the texts of Augustine and Bernard of Clairvaux and
Boethius, not to mention all the secondary and tertiary authors.

Various questions arose, CALALUCA said.  Should one convert Migne?
Should the database be encoded?  Is it necessary to do that?  How should
it be delivered?  What about CD-ROM?  Since this is a transitional
medium, why even bother to create software to run on a CD-ROM?  Since
everybody knows people will be networking information, why go to the
trouble--which is far greater with CD-ROM than with the production of
magnetic data?  Finally, how does one make the data available?  Can many
of the hurdles to using electronic information that some publishers have
imposed upon databases be eliminated?

The PLD project was based on the principle that computer-searching of
texts is most effective when it is done with a large database.  Because
PLD represented a collection that serves so many disciplines across so
many periods, it was irresistible.

The basic rule in converting PLD was to do no harm, to avoid the sins of
intrusion in such a database:  no introduction of newer editions, no
on-the-spot changes, no eradicating of all possible falsehoods from an
edition.  Thus, PLD is not the final act in electronic publishing for
this discipline, but simply the beginning.  The conversion of PLD has
evoked numerous unanticipated questions:  How will information be used?
What about networking?  Can the rights of a database be protected?
Should one protect the rights of a database?  How can it be made
available?

Those converting PLD also tried to avoid the sins of omission, that is,
excluding portions of the collections or whole sections.  What about the
images?  PLD is full of images, some are extremely pious
nineteenth-century representations of the Fathers, while others contain
highly interesting elements.  The goal was to cover all the text of Migne
(including notes, in Greek and in Hebrew, the latter of which, in
particular, causes problems in creating a search structure), all the
indices, and even the images, which are being scanned in separately
searchable files.

Several North American institutions that have placed acquisition requests
for the PLD database have requested it in magnetic form without software,
which means they are already running it without software, without
anything demonstrated at the Workshop.

What cannot practically be done is go back and reconvert and re-encode
data, a time-consuming and extremely costly enterprise.  CALALUCA sees
PLD as a database that can, and should, be run under a variety of
retrieval softwares.  This will permit the widest possible searches.
Consequently, the need to produce a CD-ROM of PLD, as well as to develop
software that could handle some 1.3 gigabyte of heavily encoded text,
developed out of conversations with collection development and reference
librarians who wanted software both compassionate enough for the
pedestrian but also capable of incorporating the most detailed
lexicographical studies that a user desires to conduct.  In the end, the
encoding and conversion of the data will prove the most enduring
testament to the value of the project.

The encoding of the database was also a hard-fought issue:  Did the
database need to be encoded? Were there normative structures for encoding
humanist texts?  Should it be SGML?  What about the TEI--will it last,
will it prove useful?  CALALUCA expressed some minor doubts as to whether
a data bank can be fully TEI-conformant.  Every effort can be made, but
in the end to be TEI-conformant means to accept the need to make some
firm encoding decisions that can, indeed, be disputed.  The TEI points
the publisher in a proper direction but does not presume to make all the
decisions for him or her.  Essentially, the goal of encoding was to
eliminate, as much as possible, the hindrances to information-networking,
so that if an institution acquires a database, everybody associated with
the institution can have access to it.

CALALUCA demonstrated a portion of Volume 160, because it had the most
anomalies in it.  The software was created by Electronic Book
Technologies of Providence, RI, and is called Dynatext.  The software
works only with SGML-coded data.

Viewing a table of contents on the screen, the audience saw how Dynatext
treats each element as a book and attempts to simplify movement through a
volume.  Familiarity with the Patrologia in print (i.e., the text, its
source, and the editions) will make the machine-readable versions highly
useful.  (Software with a Windows application was sought for PLD,
CALALUCA said, because this was the main trend for scholarly use.)

CALALUCA also demonstrated how a user can perform a variety of searches
and quickly move to any part of a volume; the look-up screen provides
some basic, simple word-searching.

CALALUCA argued that one of the major difficulties is not the software.
Rather, in creating a product that will be used by scholars representing
a broad spectrum of computer sophistication,  user documentation proves
to be the most important service one can provide.

CALALUCA next illustrated a truncated search under mysterium within ten
words of virtus and how one would be able to find its contents throughout
the entire database.  He said that the exciting thing about PLD is that
many of the applications in the retrieval software being written for it
will exceed the capabilities of the software employed now for the CD-ROM
version.  The CD-ROM faces genuine limitations, in terms of speed and
comprehensiveness, in the creation of a retrieval software to run it.
CALALUCA said he hoped that individual scholars will download the data,
if they wish, to their personal computers, and have ready access to
important texts on a constant basis, which they will be able to use in
their research and from which they might even be able to publish.

(CALALUCA explained that the blue numbers represented Migne's column numbers,
which are the standard scholarly references.  Pulling up a note, he stated
that these texts were heavily edited and the image files would appear simply
as a note as well, so that one could quickly access an image.)

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
FLEISCHHAUER/ERWAY * Several problems with which AM is still wrestling *
Various search and retrieval capabilities * Illustration of automatic
stemming and a truncated search * AM's attempt to find ways to connect
cataloging to the texts * AM's gravitation towards SGML * Striking a
balance between quantity and quality * How AM furnishes users recourse to
images * Conducting a search in a full-text environment * Macintosh and
IBM prototypes of AM * Multimedia aspects of AM *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

A demonstration of American Memory by its coordinator, Carl FLEISCHHAUER,
and Ricky ERWAY, associate coordinator, Library of Congress, concluded
the morning session.  Beginning with a collection of broadsides from the
Continental Congress and the Constitutional Convention, the only text
collection in a presentable form at the time of the Workshop, FLEISCHHAUER
highlighted several of the problems with which AM is still wrestling.
(In its final form, the disk will contain two collections, not only the
broadsides but also the full text with illustrations of a set of
approximately 300 African-American pamphlets from the period 1870 to 1910.)

As FREEMAN had explained earlier, AM has attempted to use a small amount
of interpretation to introduce collections.  In the present case, the
contractor, a company named Quick Source, in Silver Spring, MD., used
software called Toolbook and put together a modestly interactive
introduction to the collection.  Like the two preceding speakers,
FLEISCHHAUER argued that the real asset was the underlying collection.

FLEISCHHAUER proceeded to describe various search and retrieval
capabilities while ERWAY worked the computer.  In this particular package
the "go to" pull-down allowed the user in effect to jump out of Toolbook,
where the interactive program was located, and enter the third-party
software used by AM for this text collection, which is called Personal
Librarian.  This was the Windows version of Personal Librarian, a
software application put together by a company in Rockville, Md.

Since the broadsides came from the Revolutionary War period, a search was
conducted using the words British or war, with the default operator reset
as or.  FLEISCHHAUER demonstrated both automatic stemming (which finds
other forms of the same root) and a truncated search.  One of Personal
Librarian's strongest features, the relevance ranking, was represented by
a chart that indicated how often words being sought appeared in
documents, with the one receiving the most "hits" obtaining the highest
score.  The "hit list" that is supplied takes the relevance ranking into
account, making the first hit, in effect, the one the software has
selected as the most relevant example.

While in the text of one of the broadside documents, FLEISCHHAUER
remarked AM's attempt to find ways to connect cataloging to the texts,
which it does in different ways in different manifestations.  In the case
shown, the cataloging was pasted on:  AM took MARC records that were
written as on-line records right into one of the Library's mainframe
retrieval programs, pulled them out, and handed them off to the contractor,
who massaged them somewhat to display them in the manner shown.  One of
AM's questions is, Does the cataloguing normally performed in the mainframe
work in this context, or had AM ought to think through adjustments?

FLEISCHHAUER made the additional point that, as far as the text goes, AM
has gravitated towards SGML (he pointed to the boldface in the upper part
of the screen).  Although extremely limited in its ability to translate
or interpret SGML, Personal Librarian will furnish both bold and italics
on screen; a fairly easy thing to do, but it is one of the ways in which
SGML is useful.

Striking a balance between quantity and quality has been a major concern
of AM, with accuracy being one of the places where project staff have
felt that less than 100-percent accuracy was not unacceptable.
FLEISCHHAUER cited the example of the standard of the rekeying industry,
namely 99.95 percent; as one service bureau informed him, to go from
99.95 to 100 percent would double the cost.

FLEISCHHAUER next demonstrated how AM furnishes users recourse to images,
and at the same time recalled LESK's pointed question concerning the
number of people who would look at those images and the number who would
work only with the text.  If the implication of LESK's question was
sound, FLEISCHHAUER said, it raised the stakes for text accuracy and
reduced the value of the strategy for images.

Contending that preservation is always a bugaboo, FLEISCHHAUER
demonstrated several images derived from a scan of a preservation
microfilm that AM had made.  He awarded a grade of C at best, perhaps a
C minus or a C plus, for how well it worked out.  Indeed, the matter of
learning if other people had better ideas about scanning in general, and,
in particular, scanning from microfilm, was one of the factors that drove
AM to attempt to think through the agenda for the Workshop.  Skew, for
example, was one of the issues that AM in its ignorance had not reckoned
would prove so difficult.

Further, the handling of images of the sort shown, in a desktop computer
environment, involved a considerable amount of zooming and scrolling.
Ultimately, AM staff feel that perhaps the paper copy that is printed out
might be the most useful one, but they remain uncertain as to how much
on-screen reading users will do.

Returning to the text, FLEISCHHAUER asked viewers to imagine a person who
might be conducting a search in a full-text environment.  With this
scenario, he proceeded to illustrate other features of Personal Librarian
that he considered helpful; for example, it provides the ability to
notice words as one reads.  Clicking the "include" button on the bottom
of the search window pops the words that have been highlighted into the
search.  Thus, a user can refine the search as he or she reads,
re-executing the search and continuing to find things in the quest for
materials.  This software not only contains relevance ranking, Boolean
operators, and truncation, it also permits one to perform word algebra,
so to say, where one puts two or three words in parentheses and links
them with one Boolean operator and then a couple of words in another set
of parentheses and asks for things within so many words of others.

Until they became acquainted recently with some of the work being done in
classics, the AM staff had not realized that a large number of the
projects that involve electronic texts were being done by people with a
profound interest in language and linguistics.  Their search strategies
and thinking are oriented to those fields, as is shown in particular by
the Perseus example.  As amateur historians, the AM staff were thinking
more of searching for concepts and ideas than for particular words.
Obviously, FLEISCHHAUER conceded, searching for concepts and ideas and
searching for words may be two rather closely related things.

While displaying several images, FLEISCHHAUER observed that the Macintosh
prototype built by AM contains a greater diversity of formats.  Echoing a
previous speaker, he said that it was easier to stitch things together in
the Macintosh, though it tended to be a little more anemic in search and
retrieval.  AM, therefore, increasingly has been investigating
sophisticated retrieval engines in the IBM format.

FLEISCHHAUER demonstrated several additional examples of the prototype
interfaces:  One was AM's metaphor for the network future, in which a
kind of reading-room graphic suggests how one would be able to go around
to different materials.  AM contains a large number of photographs in
analog video form worked up from a videodisc, which enable users to make
copies to print or incorporate in digital documents.  A frame-grabber is
built into the system, making it possible to bring an image into a window
and digitize or print it out.

FLEISCHHAUER next demonstrated sound recording, which included texts.
Recycled from a previous project, the collection included sixty 78-rpm
phonograph records of political speeches that were made during and
immediately after World War I.  These constituted approximately three
hours of audio, as AM has digitized it, which occupy 150 megabytes on a
CD.  Thus, they are considerably compressed.  From the catalogue card,
FLEISCHHAUER proceeded to a transcript of a speech with the audio
available and with highlighted text following it as it played.
A photograph has been added and a transcription made.

Considerable value has been added beyond what the Library of Congress
normally would do in cataloguing a sound recording, which raises several
questions for AM concerning where to draw lines about how much value it can
afford to add and at what point, perhaps, this becomes more than AM could
reasonably do or reasonably wish to do.  FLEISCHHAUER also demonstrated
a motion picture.  As FREEMAN had reported earlier, the motion picture
materials have proved the most popular, not surprisingly.  This says more
about the medium, he thought, than about AM's presentation of it.

Because AM's goal was to bring together things that could be used by
historians or by people who were curious about history,
turn-of-the-century footage seemed to represent the most appropriate
collections from the Library of Congress in motion pictures. These were
the very first films made by Thomas Edison's company and some others at
that time.  The particular example illustrated was a Biograph film,
brought in with a frame-grabber into a window.  A single videodisc
contains about fifty titles and pieces of film from that period, all of
New York City.  Taken together, AM believes, they provide an interesting
documentary resource.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Using the frame-grabber in AM * Volume of material processed
and to be processed * Purpose of AM within LC * Cataloguing and the
nature of AM's material * SGML coding and the question of quality versus
quantity *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the question-and-answer period that followed FLEISCHHAUER's
presentation, several clarifications were made.

AM is bringing in motion pictures from a videodisc.  The frame-grabber
devices create a window on a computer screen, which permits users to
digitize a single frame of the movie or one of the photographs.  It
produces a crude, rough-and-ready image that high school students can
incorporate into papers, and that has worked very nicely in this way.

Commenting on FLEISCHHAUER's assertion that AM was looking more at
searching ideas than words, MYLONAS argued that without words an idea
does not exist.  FLEISCHHAUER conceded that he ought to have articulated
his point more clearly.  MYLONAS stated that they were in fact both
talking about the same thing.  By searching for words and by forcing
people to focus on the word, the Perseus Project felt that they would get
them to the idea.  The way one reviews results is tailored more to one
kind of user than another.

Concerning the total volume of material that has been processed in this
way, AM at this point has in retrievable form seven or eight collections,
all of them photographic.  In the Macintosh environment, for example,
there probably are 35,000-40,000 photographs.  The sound recordings
number sixty items.  The broadsides number about 300 items.  There are
500 political cartoons in the form of drawings.  The motion pictures, as
individual items, number sixty to seventy.

AM also has a manuscript collection, the life history portion of one of
the federal project series, which will contain 2,900 individual
documents, all first-person narratives.  AM has in process about 350
African-American pamphlets, or about 12,000 printed pages for the period
1870-1910.  Also in the works are some 4,000 panoramic photographs.  AM
has recycled a fair amount of the work done by LC's Prints and
Photographs Division during the Library's optical disk pilot project in
the 1980s.  For example, a special division of LC has tooled up and
thought through all the ramifications of electronic presentation of
photographs.  Indeed, they are wheeling them out in great barrel loads.
The purpose of AM within the Library, it is hoped, is to catalyze several
of the other special collection divisions which have no particular
experience with, in some cases, mixed feelings about, an activity such as
AM.  Moreover, in many cases the divisions may be characterized as not
only lacking experience in "electronifying" things but also in automated
cataloguing.  MARC cataloguing as practiced in the United States is
heavily weighted toward the description of monograph and serial
materials, but is much thinner when one enters the world of manuscripts
and things that are held in the Library's music collection and other
units.  In response to a comment by LESK, that AM's material is very
heavily photographic, and is so primarily because individual records have
been made for each photograph, FLEISCHHAUER observed that an item-level
catalog record exists, for example, for each photograph in the Detroit
Publishing collection of 25,000 pictures.  In the case of the Federal
Writers Project, for which nearly 3,000 documents exist, representing
information from twenty-six different states, AM with the assistance of
Karen STUART of the Manuscript Division will attempt to find some way not
only to have a collection-level record but perhaps a MARC record for each
state, which will then serve as an umbrella for the 100-200 documents
that come under it.  But that drama remains to be enacted.  The AM staff
is conservative and clings to cataloguing, though of course visitors tout
artificial intelligence and neural networks in a manner that suggests that
perhaps one need not have cataloguing or that much of it could be put aside.

The matter of SGML coding, FLEISCHHAUER conceded, returned the discussion
to the earlier treated question of quality versus quantity in the Library
of Congress.  Of course, text conversion can be done with 100-percent
accuracy, but it means that when one's holdings are as vast as LC's only
a tiny amount will be exposed, whereas permitting lower levels of
accuracy can lead to exposing or sharing larger amounts, but with the
quality correspondingly impaired.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
TWOHIG * A contrary experience concerning electronic options * Volume of
material in the Washington papers and a suggestion of David Packard *
Implications of Packard's suggestion * Transcribing the documents for the
CD-ROM * Accuracy of transcriptions * The CD-ROM edition of the Founding
Fathers documents *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Finding encouragement in a comment of MICHELSON's from the morning
session--that numerous people in the humanities were choosing electronic
options to do their work--Dorothy TWOHIG, editor, The Papers of George
Washington, opened her illustrated talk by noting that her experience
with literary scholars and numerous people in editing was contrary to
MICHELSON's.  TWOHIG emphasized literary scholars' complete ignorance of
the technological options available to them or their reluctance or, in
some cases, their downright hostility toward these options.

After providing an overview of the five Founding Fathers projects
(Jefferson at Princeton, Franklin at Yale, John Adams at the
Massachusetts Historical Society, and Madison down the hall from her at
the University of Virginia), TWOHIG observed that the Washington papers,
like all of the projects, include both sides of the Washington
correspondence and deal with some 135,000 documents to be published with
extensive annotation in eighty to eighty-five volumes, a project that
will not be completed until well into the next century.  Thus, it was
with considerable enthusiasm several years ago that the Washington Papers
Project (WPP) greeted David Packard's suggestion that the papers of the
Founding Fathers could be published easily and inexpensively, and to the
great benefit of American scholarship, via CD-ROM.

In pragmatic terms, funding from the Packard Foundation would expedite
the transcription of thousands of documents waiting to be put on disk in
the WPP offices.  Further, since the costs of collecting, editing, and
converting the Founding Fathers documents into letterpress editions were
running into the millions of dollars, and the considerable staffs
involved in all of these projects were devoting their careers to
producing the work, the Packard Foundation's suggestion had a
revolutionary aspect:  Transcriptions of the entire corpus of the
Founding Fathers papers would be available on CD-ROM to public and
college libraries, even high schools, at a fraction of the cost--
$100-$150 for the annual license fee--to produce a limited university
press run of 1,000 of each volume of the published papers at $45-$150 per
printed volume.  Given the current budget crunch in educational systems
and the corresponding constraints on librarians in smaller institutions
who wish to add these volumes to their collections, producing the
documents on CD-ROM would likely open a greatly expanded audience for the
papers.  TWOHIG stressed, however, that development of the Founding
Fathers CD-ROM is still in its infancy.  Serious software problems remain
to be resolved before the material can be put into readable form.

Funding from the Packard Foundation resulted in a major push to
transcribe the 75,000 or so documents of the Washington papers remaining
to be transcribed onto computer disks.  Slides illustrated several of the
problems encountered, for example, the present inability of CD-ROM to
indicate the cross-outs (deleted material) in eighteenth century
documents.  TWOHIG next described documents from various periods in the
eighteenth century that have been transcribed in chronological order and
delivered to the Packard offices in California, where they are converted
to the CD-ROM, a process that is expected to consume five years to
complete (that is, reckoning from David Packard's suggestion made several
years ago, until about July 1994).  TWOHIG found an encouraging
indication of the project's benefits in the ongoing use made by scholars
of the search functions of the CD-ROM, particularly in reducing the time
spent in manually turning the pages of the Washington papers.

TWOHIG next furnished details concerning the accuracy of transcriptions.
For instance, the insertion of thousands of documents on the CD-ROM
currently does not permit each document to be verified against the
original manuscript several times as in the case of documents that appear
in the published edition.  However, the transcriptions receive a cursory
check for obvious typos, the misspellings of proper names, and other
errors from the WPP CD-ROM editor.  Eventually, all documents that appear
in the electronic version will be checked by project editors.  Although
this process has met with opposition from some of the editors on the
grounds that imperfect work may leave their offices, the advantages in
making this material available as a research tool outweigh  fears about the
misspelling of proper names and other relatively minor editorial matters.

Completion of all five Founding Fathers projects (i.e., retrievability
and searchability of all of the documents by proper names, alternate
spellings, or varieties of subjects) will provide one of the richest
sources of this size for the history of the United States in the latter
part of the eighteenth century.  Further, publication on CD-ROM will
allow editors to include even minutiae, such as laundry lists, not
included in the printed volumes.

It seems possible that the extensive annotation provided in the printed
volumes eventually will be added to the CD-ROM edition, pending
negotiations with the publishers of the papers.  At the moment, the
Founding Fathers CD-ROM is accessible only on the IBYCUS, a computer
developed out of the Thesaurus Linguae Graecae project and designed for
the use of classical scholars.  There are perhaps 400 IBYCUS computers in
the country, most of which are in university classics departments.
Ultimately, it is anticipated that the CD-ROM edition of the Founding
Fathers documents will run on any IBM-compatible or Macintosh computer
with a CD-ROM drive.  Numerous changes in the software will also occur
before the project is completed.  (Editor's note: an IBYCUS was
unavailable to demonstrate the CD-ROM.)

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Several additional features of WPP clarified *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Discussion following TWOHIG's presentation served to clarify several
additional features, including (1) that the project's primary
intellectual product consists in the electronic transcription of the
material; (2) that the text transmitted to the CD-ROM people is not
marked up; (3) that cataloging and subject-indexing of the material
remain to be worked out (though at this point material can be retrieved
by name); and (4) that because all the searching is done in the hardware,
the IBYCUS is designed to read a CD-ROM which contains only sequential
text files.  Technically, it then becomes very easy to read the material
off and put it on another device.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
LEBRON * Overview of the history of the joint project between AAAS and
OCLC * Several practices the on-line environment shares with traditional
publishing on hard copy * Several technical and behavioral barriers to
electronic publishing * How AAAS and OCLC arrived at the subject of
clinical trials * Advantages of the electronic format and other features
of OJCCT * An illustrated tour of the journal *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Maria LEBRON, managing editor, The Online Journal of Current Clinical
Trials (OJCCT), presented an illustrated overview of the history of the
joint project between the American Association for the Advancement of
Science (AAAS) and the Online Computer Library Center, Inc. (OCLC).  The
joint venture between AAAS and OCLC owes its beginning to a
reorganization launched by the new chief executive officer at OCLC about
three years ago and combines the strengths of these two disparate
organizations.  In short, OJCCT represents the process of scholarly
publishing on line.

LEBRON next discussed several practices the on-line environment shares
with traditional publishing on hard copy--for example, peer review of
manuscripts--that are highly important in the academic world.  LEBRON
noted in particular the implications of citation counts for tenure
committees and grants committees.  In the traditional hard-copy
environment, citation counts are readily demonstrable, whereas the
on-line environment represents an ethereal medium to most academics.

LEBRON remarked several technical and behavioral barriers to electronic
publishing, for instance, the problems in transmission created by special
characters or by complex graphics and halftones.  In addition, she noted
economic limitations such as the storage costs of maintaining back issues
and market or audience education.

Manuscripts cannot be uploaded to OJCCT, LEBRON explained, because it is
not a bulletin board or E-mail, forms of electronic transmission of
information that have created an ambience clouding people's understanding
of what the journal is attempting to do.  OJCCT, which publishes
peer-reviewed medical articles dealing with the subject of clinical
trials, includes text, tabular material, and graphics, although at this
time it can transmit only line illustrations.

Next, LEBRON described how AAAS and OCLC arrived at the subject of
clinical trials:  It is 1) a highly statistical discipline that 2) does
not require halftones but can satisfy the needs of its audience with line
illustrations and graphic material, and 3) there is a need for the speedy
dissemination of high-quality research results.  Clinical trials are
research activities that involve the administration of a test treatment
to some experimental unit in order to test its usefulness before it is
made available to the general population.  LEBRON proceeded to give
additional information on OJCCT concerning its editor-in-chief, editorial
board, editorial content, and the types of articles it publishes
(including peer-reviewed research reports and reviews), as well as
features shared by other traditional hard-copy journals.

Among the advantages of the electronic format are faster dissemination of
information, including raw data, and the absence of space constraints
because pages do not exist.  (This latter fact creates an interesting
situation when it comes to citations.)  Nor are there any issues.  AAAS's
capacity to download materials directly from the journal to a
subscriber's printer, hard drive, or floppy disk helps ensure highly
accurate transcription.  Other features of OJCCT include on-screen alerts
that allow linkage of subsequently published documents to the original
documents; on-line searching by subject, author, title, etc.; indexing of
every single word that appears in an article; viewing access to an
article by component (abstract, full text, or graphs); numbered
paragraphs to replace page counts; publication in Science every thirty
days of indexing of all articles published in the journal;
typeset-quality screens; and Hypertext links that enable subscribers to
bring up Medline abstracts directly without leaving the journal.

After detailing the two primary ways to gain access to the journal,
through the OCLC network and Compuserv if one desires graphics or through
the Internet if just an ASCII file is desired, LEBRON illustrated the
speedy editorial process and the coding of the document using SGML tags
after it has been accepted for publication.  She also gave an illustrated
tour of the journal, its search-and-retrieval capabilities in particular,
but also including problems associated with scanning in illustrations,
and the importance of on-screen alerts to the medical profession re
retractions or corrections, or more frequently, editorials, letters to
the editors, or follow-up reports.  She closed by inviting the audience
to join AAAS on 1 July, when OJCCT was scheduled to go on-line.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Additional features of OJCCT *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

In the lengthy discussion that followed LEBRON's presentation, these
points emerged:

     * The SGML text can be tailored as users wish.

     * All these articles have a fairly simple document definition.

     * Document-type definitions (DTDs) were developed and given to OJCCT
     for coding.

     * No articles will be removed from the journal.  (Because there are
     no back issues, there are no lost issues either.  Once a subscriber
     logs onto the journal he or she has access not only to the currently
     published materials, but retrospectively to everything that has been
     published in it.  Thus the table of contents grows bigger.  The date
     of publication serves to distinguish between currently published
     materials and older materials.)

     * The pricing system for the journal resembles that for most medical
     journals:  for 1992, $95 for a year, plus telecommunications charges
     (there are no connect time charges);    for 1993, $110 for the
     entire year for single users, though the journal can be put on a
     local area network (LAN).  However, only one person can access the
     journal at a time.  Site licenses may come in the future.

     * AAAS is working closely with colleagues at OCLC to display
     mathematical equations on screen.

     * Without compromising any steps in the editorial process, the
     technology has reduced the time lag between when a manuscript is
     originally submitted and the time it is accepted; the review process
     does not differ greatly from the standard six-to-eight weeks
     employed by many of the hard-copy journals.  The process still
     depends on people.

     * As far as a preservation copy is concerned, articles will be
     maintained on the computer permanently and subscribers, as part of
     their subscription, will receive a microfiche-quality archival copy
     of everything published during that year; in addition, reprints can
     be purchased in much the same way as in a hard-copy environment.
     Hard copies are prepared but are not the primary medium for the
     dissemination of the information.

     * Because OJCCT is not yet on line, it is difficult to know how many
     people would simply browse through the journal on the screen as
     opposed to downloading the whole thing and printing it out; a mix of
     both types of users likely will result.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
PERSONIUS * Developments in technology over the past decade * The CLASS
Project * Advantages for technology and for the CLASS Project *
Developing a network application an underlying assumption of the project
* Details of the scanning process * Print-on-demand copies of books *
Future plans include development of a browsing tool *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Lynne PERSONIUS, assistant director, Cornell Information Technologies for
Scholarly Information Services, Cornell University, first commented on
the tremendous impact that developments in technology over the past ten
years--networking, in particular--have had on the way information is
handled, and how, in her own case, these developments have counterbalanced
Cornell's relative geographical isolation.  Other significant technologies
include scanners, which are much more sophisticated than they were ten years
ago; mass storage and the dramatic savings that result from it in terms of
both space and money relative to twenty or thirty years ago; new and
improved printing technologies, which have greatly affected the distribution
of information; and, of course, digital technologies, whose applicability to
library preservation remains at issue.

Given that context, PERSONIUS described the College Library Access and
Storage System (CLASS) Project, a library preservation project,
primarily, and what has been accomplished.  Directly funded by the
Commission on Preservation and Access and by the Xerox Corporation, which
has provided a significant amount of hardware, the CLASS Project has been
working with a development team at Xerox to develop a software
application tailored to library preservation requirements.  Within
Cornell, participants in the project have been working jointly with both
library and information technologies.  The focus of the project has been
on reformatting and saving books that are in brittle condition.
PERSONIUS showed Workshop participants a brittle book, and described how
such books were the result of developments in papermaking around the
beginning of the Industrial Revolution.  The papermaking process was
changed so that a significant amount of acid was introduced into the
actual paper itself, which deteriorates as it sits on library shelves.

One of the advantages for technology and for the CLASS Project is that
the information in brittle books is mostly out of copyright and thus
offers an opportunity to work with material that requires library
preservation, and to create and work on an infrastructure to save the
material.  Acknowledging the familiarity of those working in preservation
with this information, PERSONIUS noted that several things are being
done:  the primary preservation technology used today is photocopying of
brittle material.  Saving the intellectual content of the material is the
main goal.  With microfilm copy, the intellectual content is preserved on
the assumption that in the future the image can be reformatted in any
other way that then exists.

An underlying assumption of the CLASS Project from the beginning was
that it would develop a network application.  Project staff scan books
at a workstation located in the library, near the brittle material.
An image-server filing system is located at a distance from that
workstation, and a printer is located in another building.  All of the
materials digitized and stored on the image-filing system are cataloged
in the on-line catalogue.  In fact, a record for each of these electronic
books is stored in the RLIN database so that a record exists of what is
in the digital library throughout standard catalogue procedures.  In the
future, researchers working from their own workstations in their offices,
or their networks, will have access--wherever they might be--through a
request server being built into the new digital library.  A second
assumption is that the preferred means of finding the material will be by
looking through a catalogue.  PERSONIUS described the scanning process,
which uses a prototype scanner being developed by Xerox and which scans a
very high resolution image at great speed.  Another significant feature,
because this is a preservation application, is the placing of the pages
that fall apart one for one on the platen.  Ordinarily, a scanner could
be used with some sort of a document feeder, but because of this
application that is not feasible.  Further, because CLASS is a
preservation application, after the paper replacement is made there, a
very careful quality control check is performed.  An original book is
compared to the printed copy and verification is made, before proceeding,
that all of the image, all of the information, has been captured.  Then,
a new library book is produced:  The printed images are rebound by a
commercial binder and a new book is returned to the shelf.
Significantly, the books returned to the library shelves are beautiful
and useful replacements on acid-free paper that should last a long time,
in effect, the equivalent of preservation photocopies.  Thus, the project
has a library of digital books.  In essence, CLASS is scanning and
storing books as 600 dot-per-inch bit-mapped images, compressed using
Group 4 CCITT (i.e., the French acronym for International Consultative
Committee for Telegraph and Telephone) compression.  They are stored as
TIFF files on an optical filing system that is composed of a database
used for searching and locating the books and an optical jukebox that
stores 64 twelve-inch platters.  A very-high-resolution printed copy of
these books at 600 dots per inch is created, using a Xerox DocuTech
printer to make the paper replacements on acid-free paper.

PERSONIUS maintained that the CLASS Project presents an opportunity to
introduce people to books as digital images by using a paper medium.
Books are returned to the shelves while people are also given the ability
to print on demand--to make their own copies of books.  (PERSONIUS
distributed copies of an engineering journal published by engineering
students at Cornell around 1900 as an example of what a print-on-demand
copy of material might be like.  This very cheap copy would be available
to people to use for their own research purposes and would bridge the gap
between an electronic work and the paper that readers like to have.)
PERSONIUS then attempted to illustrate a very early prototype of
networked access to this digital library.  Xerox Corporation has
developed a prototype of a view station that can send images across the
network to be viewed.

The particular library brought down for demonstration contained two
mathematics books.  CLASS is developing and will spend the next year
developing an application that allows people at workstations to browse
the books.  Thus, CLASS is developing a browsing tool, on the assumption
that users do not want to read an entire book from a workstation, but
would prefer to be able to look through and decide if they would like to
have a printed copy of it.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Re retrieval software * "Digital file copyright" * Scanning
rate during production * Autosegmentation * Criteria employed in
selecting books for scanning * Compression and decompression of images *
OCR not precluded *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the question-and-answer period that followed her presentation,
PERSONIUS made these additional points:

     * Re retrieval software, Cornell is developing a Unix-based server
     as well as clients for the server that support multiple platforms
     (Macintosh, IBM and Sun workstations), in the hope that people from
     any of those platforms will retrieve books; a further operating
     assumption is that standard interfaces will be used as much as
     possible, where standards can be put in place, because CLASS
     considers this retrieval software a library application and would
     like to be able to look at material not only at Cornell but at other
     institutions.

     * The phrase "digital file copyright by Cornell University" was
     added at the advice of Cornell's legal staff with the caveat that it
     probably would not hold up in court.  Cornell does not want people
     to copy its books and sell them but would like to keep them
     available for use in a library environment for library purposes.

     * In production the scanner can scan about 300 pages per hour,
     capturing 600 dots per inch.

     * The Xerox software has filters to scan halftone material and avoid
     the moire patterns that occur when halftone material is scanned.
     Xerox has been working on hardware and software that would enable
     the scanner itself to recognize this situation and deal with it
     appropriately--a kind of autosegmentation that would enable the
     scanner to handle halftone material as well as text on a single page.

     * The books subjected to the elaborate process described above were
     selected because CLASS is a preservation project, with the first 500
     books selected coming from Cornell's mathematics collection, because
     they were still being heavily used and because, although they were
     in need of preservation, the mathematics library and the mathematics
     faculty were uncomfortable having them microfilmed.  (They wanted a
     printed copy.)  Thus, these books became a logical choice for this
     project.  Other books were chosen by the project's selection committees
     for experiments with the technology, as well as to meet a demand or need.

     * Images will be decompressed before they are sent over the line; at
     this time they are compressed and sent to the image filing system
     and then sent to the printer as compressed images; they are returned
     to the workstation as compressed 600-dpi images and the workstation
     decompresses and scales them for display--an inefficient way to
     access the material though it works quite well for printing and
     other purposes.

     * CLASS is also decompressing on Macintosh and IBM, a slow process
     right now.  Eventually, compression and decompression will take
     place on an image conversion server.  Trade-offs will be made, based
     on future performance testing, concerning where the file is
     compressed and what resolution image is sent.

     * OCR has not been precluded; images are being stored that have been
     scanned at a high resolution, which presumably would suit them well
     to an OCR process.  Because the material being scanned is about 100
     years old and was printed with less-than-ideal technologies, very
     early and preliminary tests have not produced good results.  But the
     project is capturing an image that is of sufficient resolution to be
     subjected to OCR in the future.  Moreover, the system architecture
     and the system plan have a logical place to store an OCR image if it
     has been captured.  But that is not being done now.

                                 ******

SESSION III.  DISTRIBUTION, NETWORKS, AND NETWORKING:  OPTIONS FOR
DISSEMINATION

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
ZICH * Issues pertaining to CD-ROMs * Options for publishing in CD-ROM *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Robert ZICH, special assistant to the associate librarian for special
projects, Library of Congress, and moderator of this session, first noted
the blessed but somewhat awkward circumstance of having four very
distinguished people representing networks and networking or at least
leaning in that direction, while lacking anyone to speak from the
strongest possible background in CD-ROMs.  ZICH expressed the hope that
members of the audience would join the discussion.  He stressed the
subtitle of this particular session, "Options for Dissemination," and,
concerning CD-ROMs, the importance of determining when it would be wise
to consider dissemination in CD-ROM versus networks.  A shopping list of
issues pertaining to CD-ROMs included:  the grounds for selecting
commercial publishers, and in-house publication where possible versus
nonprofit or government publication.  A similar list for networks
included:  determining when one should consider dissemination through a
network, identifying the mechanisms or entities that exist to place items
on networks, identifying the pool of existing networks, determining how a
producer  would choose between networks, and identifying the elements of
a business arrangement in a network.

Options for publishing in CD-ROM:  an outside publisher versus
self-publication.  If an outside publisher is used, it can be nonprofit,
such as the Government Printing Office (GPO) or the National Technical
Information Service (NTIS), in the case of government.  The pros and cons
associated with employing an outside publisher are obvious.  Among the
pros, there is no trouble getting accepted.  One pays the bill and, in
effect, goes one's way.  Among the cons, when one pays an outside
publisher to perform the work, that publisher will perform the work it is
obliged to do, but perhaps without the production expertise and skill in
marketing and dissemination that some would seek.  There is the body of
commercial publishers that do possess that kind of expertise in
distribution and marketing but that obviously are selective.  In
self-publication, one exercises full control, but then one must handle
matters such as distribution and marketing.  Such are some of the options
for publishing in the case of CD-ROM.

In the case of technical and design issues, which are also important,
there are many matters which many at the Workshop already knew a good
deal about:  retrieval system requirements and costs, what to do about
images, the various capabilities and platforms, the trade-offs between
cost and performance, concerns about local-area networkability,
interoperability, etc.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
LYNCH * Creating networked information is different from using networks
as an access or dissemination vehicle * Networked multimedia on a large
scale does not yet work * Typical CD-ROM publication model a two-edged
sword * Publishing information on a CD-ROM in the present world of
immature standards * Contrast between CD-ROM and network pricing *
Examples demonstrated earlier in the day as a set of insular information
gems * Paramount need to link databases * Layering to become increasingly
necessary * Project NEEDS and the issues of information reuse and active
versus passive use * X-Windows as a way of differentiating between
network access and networked information * Barriers to the distribution
of networked multimedia information * Need for good, real-time delivery
protocols * The question of presentation integrity in client-server
computing in the academic world * Recommendations for producing multimedia
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Clifford LYNCH, director, Library Automation, University of California,
opened his talk with the general observation that networked information
constituted a difficult and elusive topic because it is something just
starting to develop and not yet fully understood.  LYNCH contended that
creating genuinely networked information was different from using
networks as an access or dissemination vehicle and was more sophisticated
and more subtle.  He invited the members of the audience to extrapolate,
from what they heard about the preceding demonstration projects, to what
sort of a world of electronics information--scholarly, archival,
cultural, etc.--they wished to end up with ten or fifteen years from now.
LYNCH suggested that to extrapolate directly from these projects would
produce unpleasant results.

Putting the issue of CD-ROM in perspective before getting into
generalities on networked information, LYNCH observed that those engaged
in multimedia today who wish to ship a product, so to say, probably do
not have much choice except to use CD-ROM:  networked multimedia on a
large scale basically does not yet work because the technology does not
exist.  For example, anybody who has tried moving images around over the
Internet knows that this is an exciting touch-and-go process, a
fascinating and fertile area for experimentation, research, and
development, but not something that one can become deeply enthusiastic
about committing to production systems at this time.

This situation will change, LYNCH said.  He differentiated CD-ROM from
the practices that have been followed up to now in distributing data on
CD-ROM.  For LYNCH the problem with CD-ROM is not its portability or its
slowness but the two-edged sword of having the retrieval application and
the user interface inextricably bound up with the data, which is the
typical CD-ROM publication model.  It is not a case of publishing data
but of distributing a typically stand-alone, typically closed system,
all--software, user interface, and data--on a little disk.  Hence, all
the between-disk navigational issues as well as the impossibility in most
cases of integrating data on one disk with that on another.  Most CD-ROM
retrieval software does not network very gracefully at present.  However,
in the present world of immature standards and lack of understanding of
what network information is or what the ground rules are for creating or
using it, publishing information on a CD-ROM does add value in a very
real sense.

LYNCH drew a contrast between CD-ROM and network pricing and in doing so
highlighted something bizarre in information pricing.  A large
institution such as the University of California has vendors who will
offer to sell information on CD-ROM for a price per year in four digits,
but for the same data (e.g., an abstracting and indexing database) on
magnetic tape, regardless of how many people may use it concurrently,
will quote a price in six digits.

What is packaged with the CD-ROM in one sense adds value--a complete
access system, not just raw, unrefined information--although it is not
generally perceived that way.  This is because the access software,
although it adds value, is viewed by some people, particularly in the
university environment where there is a very heavy commitment to
networking, as being developed in the wrong direction.

Given that context, LYNCH described the examples demonstrated as a set of
insular information gems--Perseus, for example, offers nicely linked
information, but would be very difficult to integrate with other
databases, that is, to link together seamlessly with other source files
from other sources.  It resembles an island, and in this respect is
similar to numerous stand-alone projects that are based on videodiscs,
that is, on the single-workstation concept.

As scholarship evolves in a network environment, the paramount need will
be to link databases.  We must link personal databases to public
databases, to group databases, in fairly seamless ways--which is
extremely difficult in the environments under discussion with copies of
databases proliferating all over the place.

The notion of layering also struck LYNCH as lurking in several of the
projects demonstrated.  Several databases in a sense constitute
information archives without a significant amount of navigation built in.
Educators, critics, and others will want a layered structure--one that
defines or links paths through the layers to allow users to reach
specific points.  In LYNCH's view, layering will become increasingly
necessary, and not just within a single resource but across resources
(e.g., tracing mythology and cultural themes across several classics
databases as well as a database of Renaissance culture).  This ability to
organize resources, to build things out of multiple other things on the
network or select pieces of it, represented for LYNCH one of the key
aspects of network information.

Contending that information reuse constituted another significant issue,
LYNCH commended to the audience's attention Project NEEDS (i.e., National
Engineering Education Delivery System).  This project's objective is to
produce a database of engineering courseware as well as the components
that can be used to develop new courseware.  In a number of the existing
applications, LYNCH said, the issue of reuse (how much one can take apart
and reuse in other applications) was not being well considered.  He also
raised the issue of active versus passive use, one aspect of which  is
how much information will be manipulated locally by users.  Most people,
he argued, may do a little browsing and then will wish to print.  LYNCH
was uncertain how these resources would be used by the vast majority of
users in the network environment.

LYNCH next said a few words about X-Windows as a way of differentiating
between network access and networked information.  A number of the
applications demonstrated at the Workshop could be rewritten to use X
across the network, so that one could run them from any X-capable device-
-a workstation, an X terminal--and transact with a database across the
network.  Although this opens up access a little, assuming one has enough
network to handle it, it does not provide an interface to develop a
program that conveniently integrates information from multiple databases.
X is a viewing technology that has limits.  In a real sense, it is just a
graphical version of remote log-in across the network.  X-type applications
represent only one step in the progression towards real access.

LYNCH next discussed barriers to the distribution of networked multimedia
information.  The heart of the problem is a lack of standards to provide
the ability for computers to talk to each other, retrieve information,
and shuffle it around fairly casually.  At the moment, little progress is
being made on standards for networked information; for example, present
standards do not cover images, digital voice, and digital video.  A
useful tool kit of exchange formats for basic texts is only now being
assembled.  The synchronization of content streams (i.e., synchronizing a
voice track to a video track, establishing temporal relations between
different components in a multimedia object) constitutes another issue
for networked multimedia that is just beginning to receive attention.

Underlying network protocols also need some work; good, real-time
delivery protocols on the Internet do not yet exist.  In LYNCH's view,
highly important in this context is the notion of networked digital
object IDs, the ability of one object on the network to point to another
object (or component thereof) on the network.  Serious bandwidth issues
also exist.  LYNCH was uncertain if billion-bit-per-second networks would
prove sufficient if numerous people ran video in parallel.

LYNCH concluded by offering an issue for database creators to consider,
as well as several comments about what might constitute good trial
multimedia experiments.  In a networked information world the database
builder or service builder (publisher) does not exercise the same
extensive control over the integrity of the presentation; strange
programs "munge" with one's data before the user sees it.  Serious
thought must be given to what guarantees integrity of presentation.  Part
of that is related to where one draws the boundaries around a networked
information service.  This question of presentation integrity in
client-server computing has not been stressed enough in the academic
world, LYNCH argued, though commercial service providers deal with it
regularly.

Concerning multimedia, LYNCH observed that good multimedia at the moment
is hideously expensive to produce.  He recommended producing multimedia
with either very high sale value, or multimedia with a very long life
span, or multimedia that will have a very broad usage base and whose
costs therefore can be amortized among large numbers of users.  In this
connection, historical and humanistically oriented material may be a good
place to start, because it tends to have a longer life span than much of
the scientific material, as well as a wider user base.  LYNCH noted, for
example, that American Memory fits many of the criteria outlined.  He
remarked the extensive discussion about bringing the Internet or the
National Research and Education Network (NREN) into the K-12 environment
as a way of helping the American educational system.

LYNCH closed by noting that the kinds of applications demonstrated struck
him as excellent justifications of broad-scale networking for K-12, but
that at this time no "killer" application exists to mobilize the K-12
community to obtain connectivity.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Dearth of genuinely interesting applications on the network
a slow-changing situation * The issue of the integrity of presentation in
a networked environment * Several reasons why CD-ROM software does not
network *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the discussion period that followed LYNCH's presentation, several
additional points were made.

LYNCH reiterated even more strongly his contention that, historically,
once one goes outside high-end science and the group of those who need
access to supercomputers, there is a great dearth of genuinely
interesting applications on the network.  He saw this situation changing
slowly, with some of the scientific databases and scholarly discussion
groups and electronic journals coming on as well as with the availability
of Wide Area Information Servers (WAIS) and some of the databases that
are being mounted there.  However, many of those things do not seem to
have piqued great popular interest.  For instance, most high school
students of LYNCH's acquaintance would not qualify as devotees of serious
molecular biology.

Concerning the issue of the integrity of presentation, LYNCH believed
that a couple of information providers have laid down the law at least on
certain things.  For example, his recollection was that the National
Library of Medicine feels strongly that one needs to employ the
identifier field if he or she is to mount a database commercially.  The
problem with a real networked environment is that one does not know who
is reformatting and reprocessing one's data when one enters a client
server mode.  It becomes anybody's guess, for example, if the network
uses a Z39.50 server, or what clients are doing with one's data.  A data
provider can say that his contract will only permit clients to have
access to his data after he vets them and their presentation and makes
certain it suits him.  But LYNCH held out little expectation that the
network marketplace would evolve in that way, because it required too
much prior negotiation.

CD-ROM software does not network for a variety of reasons, LYNCH said.
He speculated that CD-ROM publishers are not eager to have their products
really hook into wide area networks, because they fear it will make their
data suppliers nervous.  Moreover, until relatively recently, one had to
be rather adroit to run a full TCP/IP stack plus applications on a
PC-size machine, whereas nowadays it is becoming easier as PCs grow
bigger and faster.  LYNCH also speculated that software providers had not
heard from their customers until the last year or so, or had not heard
from enough of their customers.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
BESSER * Implications of disseminating images on the network; planning
the distribution of multimedia documents poses two critical
implementation problems * Layered approach represents the way to deal
with users' capabilities * Problems in platform design; file size and its
implications for networking * Transmission of megabyte size images
impractical * Compression and decompression at the user's end * Promising
trends for compression * A disadvantage of using X-Windows * A project at
the Smithsonian that mounts images on several networks *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Howard BESSER, School of Library and Information Science, University of
Pittsburgh, spoke primarily about multimedia, focusing on images and the
broad implications of disseminating them on the network.  He argued that
planning the distribution of multimedia documents posed two critical
implementation problems, which he framed in the form of two questions:
1) What platform will one use and what hardware and software will users
have for viewing of the material?  and 2) How can one deliver a
sufficiently robust set of information in an accessible format in a
reasonable amount of time?  Depending on whether network or CD-ROM is the
medium used, this question raises different issues of storage,
compression, and transmission.

Concerning the design of platforms (e.g., sound, gray scale, simple
color, etc.) and the various capabilities users may have, BESSER
maintained that a layered approach was the way to deal with users'
capabilities.  A result would be that users with less powerful
workstations would simply have less functionality.  He urged members of
the audience to advocate standards and accompanying software that handle
layered functionality across a wide variety of platforms.

BESSER also addressed problems in platform design, namely, deciding how
large a machine to design for situations when the largest number of users
have the lowest level of the machine, and one desires higher
functionality.  BESSER then proceeded to the question of file size and
its implications for networking.  He discussed still images in the main.
For example, a digital color image that fills the screen of a standard
mega-pel workstation (Sun or Next) will require one megabyte of storage
for an eight-bit image or three megabytes of storage for a true color or
twenty-four-bit image.  Lossless compression algorithms (that is,
computational procedures in which no data is lost in the process of
compressing [and decompressing] an image--the exact bit-representation is
maintained) might bring storage down to a third of a megabyte per image,
but not much further than that.  The question of size makes it difficult
to fit an appropriately sized set of these images on a single disk or to
transmit them quickly enough on a network.

With these full screen mega-pel images that constitute a third of a
megabyte, one gets 1,000-3,000 full-screen images on a one-gigabyte disk;
a standard CD-ROM represents approximately 60 percent of that.  Storing
images the size of a PC screen (just 8 bit color) increases storage
capacity to 4,000-12,000 images per gigabyte; 60 percent of that gives
one the size of a CD-ROM, which in turn creates a major problem.  One
cannot have full-screen, full-color images with lossless compression; one
must compress them or use a lower resolution.  For megabyte-size images,
anything slower than a T-1 speed is impractical.  For example, on a
fifty-six-kilobaud line, it takes three minutes to transfer a
one-megabyte file, if it is not compressed; and this speed assumes ideal
circumstances (no other user contending for network bandwidth).  Thus,
questions of disk access, remote display, and current telephone
connection speed make transmission of megabyte-size images impractical.

BESSER then discussed ways to deal with these large images, for example,
compression and decompression at the user's end.  In this connection, the
issues of how much one is willing to lose in the compression process and
what image quality one needs in the first place are unknown.  But what is
known is that compression entails some loss of data.  BESSER urged that
more studies be conducted on image quality in different situations, for
example, what kind of images are needed for what kind of disciplines, and
what kind of image quality is needed for a browsing tool, an intermediate
viewing tool, and archiving.

BESSER remarked two promising trends for compression:  from a technical
perspective, algorithms that use what is called subjective redundancy
employ principles from visual psycho-physics to identify and remove
information from the image that the human eye cannot perceive; from an
interchange and interoperability perspective, the JPEG (i.e., Joint
Photographic Experts Group, an ISO standard) compression algorithms also
offer promise.  These issues of compression and decompression, BESSER
argued, resembled those raised earlier concerning the design of different
platforms.  Gauging the capabilities of potential users constitutes a
primary goal.  BESSER advocated layering or separating the images from
the applications that retrieve and display them, to avoid tying them to
particular software.

BESSER detailed several lessons learned from his work at Berkeley with
Imagequery, especially the advantages and disadvantages of using
X-Windows.  In the latter category, for example, retrieval is tied
directly to one's data, an intolerable situation in the long run on a
networked system.  Finally, BESSER described a project of Jim Wallace at
the Smithsonian Institution, who is mounting images in a extremely
rudimentary way on the Compuserv and Genie networks and is preparing to
mount them on America On Line.  Although the average user takes over
thirty minutes to download these images (assuming a fairly fast modem),
nevertheless, images have been downloaded 25,000 times.

BESSER concluded his talk with several comments on the business
arrangement between the Smithsonian and Compuserv.  He contended that not
enough is known concerning the value of images.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Creating digitized photographic collections nearly
impossible except with large organizations like museums * Need for study
to determine quality of images users will tolerate *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the brief exchange between LESK and BESSER that followed, several
clarifications emerged.

LESK argued that the photographers were far ahead of BESSER:  It is
almost impossible to create such digitized photographic collections
except with large organizations like museums, because all the
photographic agencies have been going crazy about this and will not sign
licensing agreements on any sort of reasonable terms.  LESK had heard
that National Geographic, for example, had tried to buy the right to use
some image in some kind of educational production for $100 per image, but
the photographers will not touch it.  They want accounting and payment
for each use, which cannot be accomplished within the system.  BESSER
responded that a consortium of photographers, headed by a former National
Geographic photographer, had started assembling its own collection of
electronic reproductions of images, with the money going back to the
cooperative.

LESK contended that BESSER was unnecessarily pessimistic about multimedia
images, because people are accustomed to low-quality images, particularly
from video.  BESSER urged the launching of a study to determine what
users would tolerate, what they would feel comfortable with, and what
absolutely is the highest quality they would ever need.  Conceding that
he had adopted a dire tone in order to arouse people about the issue,
BESSER closed on a sanguine note by saying that he would not be in this
business if he did not think that things could be accomplished.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
LARSEN * Issues of scalability and modularity * Geometric growth of the
Internet and the role played by layering * Basic functions sustaining
this growth * A library's roles and functions in a network environment *
Effects of implementation of the Z39.50 protocol for information
retrieval on the library system * The trade-off between volumes of data
and its potential usage * A snapshot of current trends *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Ronald LARSEN, associate director for information technology, University
of Maryland at College Park, first addressed the issues of scalability
and modularity.  He noted the difficulty of anticipating the effects of
orders-of-magnitude growth, reflecting on the twenty years of experience
with the Arpanet and Internet.  Recalling the day's demonstrations of
CD-ROM and optical disk material, he went on to ask if the field has yet
learned how to scale new systems to enable delivery and dissemination
across large-scale networks.

LARSEN focused on the geometric growth of the Internet from its inception
circa 1969 to the present, and the adjustments required to respond to
that rapid growth.  To illustrate the issue of scalability, LARSEN
considered computer networks as including three generic components:
computers, network communication nodes, and communication media.  Each
component scales (e.g., computers range from PCs to supercomputers;
network nodes scale from interface cards in a PC through sophisticated
routers and gateways; and communication media range from 2,400-baud
dial-up facilities through 4.5-Mbps backbone links, and eventually to
multigigabit-per-second communication lines), and architecturally, the
components are organized to scale hierarchically from local area networks
to international-scale networks.  Such growth is made possible by
building layers of communication protocols, as BESSER pointed out.
By layering both physically and logically, a sense of scalability is
maintained from local area networks in offices, across campuses, through
bridges, routers, campus backbones, fiber-optic links, etc., up into
regional networks and ultimately into national and international
networks.

LARSEN then illustrated the geometric growth over a two-year period--
through September 1991--of the number of networks that comprise the
Internet.  This growth has been sustained largely by the availability of
three basic functions:  electronic mail, file transfer (ftp), and remote
log-on (telnet).  LARSEN also reviewed the growth in the kind of traffic
that occurs on the network.  Network traffic reflects the joint contributions
of a larger population of users and increasing use per user.  Today one sees
serious applications involving moving images across the network--a rarity
ten years ago.  LARSEN recalled and concurred with BESSER's main point
that the interesting problems occur at the application level.

LARSEN then illustrated a model of a library's roles and functions in a
network environment.  He noted, in particular, the placement of on-line
catalogues onto the network and patrons obtaining access to the library
increasingly through local networks, campus networks, and the Internet.
LARSEN supported LYNCH's earlier suggestion that we need to address
fundamental questions of networked information in order to build
environments that scale in the information sense as well as in the
physical sense.

LARSEN supported the role of the library system as the access point into
the nation's electronic collections.  Implementation of the Z39.50
protocol for information retrieval would make such access practical and
feasible.  For example, this would enable patrons in Maryland to search
California libraries, or other libraries around the world that are
conformant with Z39.50 in a manner that is familiar to University of
Maryland patrons.  This client-server model also supports moving beyond
secondary content into primary content.  (The notion of how one links
from secondary content to primary content, LARSEN said, represents a
fundamental problem that requires rigorous thought.)  After noting
numerous network experiments in accessing full-text materials, including
projects supporting the ordering of materials across the network, LARSEN
revisited the issue of transmitting high-density, high-resolution color
images across the network and the large amounts of bandwidth they
require.  He went on to address the bandwidth and synchronization
problems inherent in sending full-motion video across the network.

LARSEN illustrated the trade-off between volumes of data in bytes or
orders of magnitude and the potential usage of that data.  He discussed
transmission rates (particularly, the time it takes to move various forms
of information), and what one could do with a network supporting
multigigabit-per-second transmission.  At the moment, the network
environment includes a composite of data-transmission requirements,
volumes and forms, going from steady to bursty (high-volume) and from
very slow to very fast.  This aggregate must be considered in the design,
construction, and operation of multigigabyte networks.

LARSEN's objective is to use the networks and library systems now being
constructed to increase access to resources wherever they exist, and
thus, to evolve toward an on-line electronic virtual library.

LARSEN concluded by offering a snapshot of current trends:  continuing
geometric growth in network capacity and number of users; slower
development of applications; and glacial development and adoption of
standards.  The challenge is to design and develop each new application
system with network access and scalability in mind.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
BROWNRIGG * Access to the Internet cannot be taken for granted * Packet
radio and the development of MELVYL in 1980-81 in the Division of Library
Automation at the University of California  *  Design criteria for packet
radio * A demonstration project in San Diego and future plans * Spread
spectrum * Frequencies at which the radios will run and plans to
reimplement the WAIS server software in the public domain * Need for an
infrastructure of radios that do not move around *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Edwin BROWNRIGG, executive director, Memex Research Institute, first
polled the audience in order to seek out regular users of the Internet as
well as those planning to use it some time in the future.  With nearly
everybody in the room falling into one category or the other, BROWNRIGG
made a point re access, namely that numerous individuals, especially those
who use the Internet every day, take for granted their access to it, the
speeds with which they are connected, and how well it all works.
However, as BROWNRIGG discovered between 1987 and 1989 in Australia,
if one wants access to the Internet but cannot afford it or has some
physical boundary that prevents her or him from gaining access, it can
be extremely frustrating.  He suggested that because of economics and
physical barriers we were beginning to create a world of haves and have-nots
in the process of scholarly communication, even in the United States.

BROWNRIGG detailed the development of MELVYL in academic year 1980-81 in
the Division of Library Automation at the University of California, in
order to underscore the issue of access to the system, which at the
outset was extremely limited.  In short, the project needed to build a
network, which at that time entailed use of satellite technology, that is,
putting earth stations on campus and also acquiring some terrestrial links
from the State of California's microwave system.  The installation of
satellite links, however, did not solve the problem (which actually
formed part of a larger problem involving politics and financial resources).
For while the project team could get a signal onto a campus, it had no means
of distributing the signal throughout the campus.  The solution involved
adopting a recent development in wireless communication called packet radio,
which combined the basic notion of packet-switching with radio.  The project
used this technology to get the signal from a point on campus where it
came down, an earth station for example, into the libraries, because it
found that wiring the libraries, especially the older marble buildings,
would cost $2,000-$5,000 per terminal.

BROWNRIGG noted that, ten years ago, the project had neither the public
policy nor the technology that would have allowed it to use packet radio
in any meaningful way.  Since then much had changed.  He proceeded to
detail research and development of the technology, how it is being
deployed in California, and what direction he thought it would take.
The design criteria are to produce a high-speed, one-time, low-cost,
high-quality, secure, license-free device (packet radio) that one can
plug in and play today, forget about it, and have access to the Internet.
By high speed, BROWNRIGG meant 1 megabyte and 1.5 megabytes.  Those units
have been built, he continued, and are in the process of being
type-certified by an independent underwriting laboratory so that they can
be type-licensed by the Federal Communications Commission.  As is the
case with citizens band, one will be able to purchase a unit and not have
to worry about applying for a license.

The basic idea, BROWNRIGG elaborated, is to take high-speed radio data
transmission and create a backbone network that at certain strategic
points in the network will "gateway" into a medium-speed packet radio
(i.e., one that runs at 38.4 kilobytes), so that perhaps by 1994-1995
people, like those in the audience for the price of a VCR could purchase
a medium-speed radio for the office or home, have full network connectivity
to the Internet, and partake of all its services, with no need for an FCC
license and no regular bill from the local common carrier.  BROWNRIGG
presented several details of a demonstration project currently taking
place in San Diego and described plans, pending funding, to install a
full-bore network in the San Francisco area.  This network will have 600
nodes running at backbone speeds, and 100 of these nodes will be libraries,
which in turn will be the gateway ports to the 38.4 kilobyte radios that
will give coverage for the neighborhoods surrounding the libraries.

BROWNRIGG next explained Part 15.247, a new rule within Title 47 of the
Code of Federal Regulations enacted by the FCC in 1985.  This rule
challenged the industry, which has only now risen to the occasion, to
build a radio that would run at no more than one watt of output power and
use a fairly exotic method of modulating the radio wave called spread
spectrum.  Spread spectrum in fact permits the building of networks so
that numerous data communications can occur simultaneously, without
interfering with each other, within the same wide radio channel.

BROWNRIGG explained that the frequencies at which the radios would run
are very short wave signals.  They are well above standard microwave and
radar.  With a radio wave that small, one watt becomes a tremendous punch
per bit and thus makes transmission at reasonable speed possible.  In
order to minimize the potential for congestion, the project is
undertaking to reimplement software which has been available in the
networking business and is taken for granted now, for example, TCP/IP,
routing algorithms, bridges, and gateways.  In addition, the project
plans to take the WAIS server software in the public domain and
reimplement it so that one can have a WAIS server on a Mac instead of a
Unix machine.  The Memex Research Institute believes that libraries, in
particular, will want to use the WAIS servers with packet radio.  This
project, which has a team of about twelve people, will run through 1993
and will include the 100 libraries already mentioned as well as other
professionals such as those in the medical profession, engineering, and
law.  Thus, the need is to create an infrastructure of radios that do not
move around, which, BROWNRIGG hopes, will solve a problem not only for
libraries but for individuals who, by and large today, do not have access
to the Internet from their homes and offices.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Project operating frequencies *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During a brief discussion period, which also concluded the day's
proceedings, BROWNRIGG stated that the project was operating in four
frequencies.  The slow speed is operating at 435 megahertz, and it would
later go up to 920 megahertz.  With the high-speed frequency, the
one-megabyte radios will run at 2.4 gigabits, and 1.5 will run at 5.7.
At 5.7, rain can be a factor, but it would have to be tropical rain,
unlike what falls in most parts of the United States.

                                 ******

SESSION IV.  IMAGE CAPTURE, TEXT CAPTURE, OVERVIEW OF TEXT AND
             IMAGE STORAGE FORMATS

William HOOTON, vice president of operations, I-NET, moderated this session.

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
KENNEY * Factors influencing development of CXP * Advantages of using
digital technology versus photocopy and microfilm * A primary goal of
CXP; publishing challenges * Characteristics of copies printed * Quality
of samples achieved in image capture * Several factors to be considered
in choosing scanning * Emphasis of CXP on timely and cost-effective
production of black-and-white printed facsimiles * Results of producing
microfilm from digital files * Advantages of creating microfilm * Details
concerning production * Costs * Role of digital technology in library
preservation *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Anne KENNEY, associate director, Department of Preservation and
Conservation, Cornell University, opened her talk by observing that the
Cornell Xerox Project (CXP) has been guided by the assumption that the
ability to produce printed facsimiles or to replace paper with paper
would be important, at least for the present generation of users and
equipment.  She described three factors that influenced development of
the project:  1) Because the project has emphasized the preservation of
deteriorating brittle books, the quality of what was produced had to be
sufficiently high to return a paper replacement to the shelf.  CXP was
only interested in using:  2) a system that was cost-effective, which
meant that it had to be cost-competitive with the processes currently
available, principally photocopy and microfilm, and 3) new or currently
available product hardware and software.

KENNEY described the advantages that using digital technology offers over
both photocopy and microfilm:  1) The potential exists to create a higher
quality reproduction of a deteriorating original than conventional
light-lens technology.  2) Because a digital image is an encoded
representation, it can be reproduced again and again with no resulting
loss of quality, as opposed to the situation with light-lens processes,
in which there is discernible difference between a second and a
subsequent generation of an image.  3) A digital image can be manipulated
in a number of ways to improve image capture; for example, Xerox has
developed a windowing application that enables one to capture a page
containing both text and illustrations in a manner that optimizes the
reproduction of both.  (With light-lens technology, one must choose which
to optimize, text or the illustration; in preservation microfilming, the
current practice is to shoot an illustrated page twice, once to highlight
the text and the second time to provide the best capture for the
illustration.)  4) A digital image can also be edited, density levels
adjusted to remove underlining and stains, and to increase legibility for
faint documents.  5) On-screen inspection can take place at the time of
initial setup and adjustments made prior to scanning, factors that
substantially reduce the number of retakes required in quality control.

A primary goal of CXP has been to evaluate the paper output printed on
the Xerox DocuTech, a high-speed printer that produces 600-dpi pages from
scanned images at a rate of 135 pages a minute.  KENNEY recounted several
publishing challenges to represent faithful and legible reproductions of
the originals that the 600-dpi copy for the most part successfully
captured.  For example, many of the deteriorating volumes in the project
were heavily illustrated with fine line drawings or halftones or came in
languages such as Japanese, in which the buildup of characters comprised
of varying strokes is difficult to reproduce at lower resolutions; a
surprising number of them came with annotations and mathematical
formulas, which it was critical to be able to duplicate exactly.

KENNEY noted that 1) the copies are being printed on paper that meets the
ANSI standards for performance, 2) the DocuTech printer meets the machine
and toner requirements for proper adhesion of print to page, as described
by the National Archives, and thus 3) paper product is considered to be
the archival equivalent of preservation photocopy.

KENNEY then discussed several samples of the quality achieved in the
project that had been distributed in a handout, for example, a copy of a
print-on-demand version of the 1911 Reed lecture on the steam turbine,
which contains halftones, line drawings, and illustrations embedded in
text; the first four loose pages in the volume compared the capture
capabilities of scanning to photocopy for a standard test target, the
IEEE standard 167A 1987 test chart.  In all instances scanning proved
superior to photocopy, though only slightly more so in one.

Conceding the simplistic nature of her review of the quality of scanning
to photocopy, KENNEY described it as one representation of the kinds of
settings that could be used with scanning capabilities on the equipment
CXP uses.  KENNEY also pointed out that CXP investigated the quality
achieved with binary scanning only, and noted the great promise in gray
scale and color scanning, whose advantages and disadvantages need to be
examined.  She argued further that scanning resolutions and file formats
can represent a complex trade-off between the time it takes to capture
material, file size, fidelity to the original, and on-screen display; and
printing and equipment availability.  All these factors must be taken
into consideration.

CXP placed primary emphasis on the production in a timely and
cost-effective manner of printed facsimiles that consisted largely of
black-and-white text.  With binary scanning, large files may be
compressed efficiently and in a lossless manner (i.e., no data is lost in
the process of compressing [and decompressing] an image--the exact
bit-representation is maintained) using Group 4 CCITT (i.e., the French
acronym for International Consultative Committee for Telegraph and
Telephone) compression.  CXP was getting compression ratios of about
forty to one.  Gray-scale compression, which primarily uses JPEG, is much
less economical and can represent a lossy compression (i.e., not
lossless), so that as one compresses and decompresses, the illustration
is subtly changed.  While binary files produce a high-quality printed
version, it appears 1) that other combinations of spatial resolution with
gray and/or color hold great promise as well, and 2) that gray scale can
represent a tremendous advantage for on-screen viewing.  The quality
associated with binary and gray scale also depends on the equipment used.
For instance, binary scanning produces a much better copy on a binary
printer.

Among CXP's findings concerning the production of microfilm from digital
files, KENNEY reported that the digital files for the same Reed lecture
were used to produce sample film using an electron beam recorder.  The
resulting film was faithful to the image capture of the digital files,
and while CXP felt that the text and image pages represented in the Reed
lecture were superior to that of the light-lens film, the resolution
readings for the 600 dpi were not as high as standard microfilming.
KENNEY argued that the standards defined for light-lens technology are
not totally transferable to a digital environment.  Moreover, they are
based on definition of quality for a preservation copy.  Although making
this case will prove to be a long, uphill struggle, CXP plans to continue
to investigate the issue over the course of the next year.

KENNEY concluded this portion of her talk with a discussion of the
advantages of creating film:  it can serve as a primary backup and as a
preservation master to the digital file; it could then become the print
or production master and service copies could be paper, film, optical
disks, magnetic media, or on-screen display.

Finally, KENNEY presented details re production:

     * Development and testing of a moderately-high resolution production
     scanning workstation represented a third goal of CXP; to date, 1,000
     volumes have been scanned, or about 300,000 images.

     * The resulting digital files are stored and used to produce
     hard-copy replacements for the originals and additional prints on
     demand; although the initial costs are high, scanning technology
     offers an affordable means for reformatting brittle material.

     * A technician in production mode can scan 300 pages per hour when
     performing single-sheet scanning, which is a necessity when working
     with truly brittle paper; this figure is expected to increase
     significantly with subsequent iterations of the software from Xerox;
     a three-month time-and-cost study of scanning found that the average
     300-page book would take about an hour and forty minutes to scan
     (this figure included the time for setup, which involves keying in
     primary bibliographic data, going into quality control mode to
     define page size, establishing front-to-back registration, and
     scanning sample pages to identify a default range of settings for
     the entire book--functions not dissimilar to those performed by
     filmers or those preparing a book for photocopy).

     * The final step in the scanning process involved rescans, which
     happily were few and far between, representing well under 1 percent
     of the total pages scanned.

In addition to technician time, CXP costed out equipment, amortized over
four years, the cost of storing and refreshing the digital files every
four years, and the cost of printing and binding, book-cloth binding, a
paper reproduction.  The total amounted to a little under $65 per single
300-page volume, with 30 percent overhead included--a figure competitive
with the prices currently charged by photocopy vendors.

Of course, with scanning, in addition to the paper facsimile, one is left
with a digital file from which subsequent copies of the book can be
produced for a fraction of the cost of photocopy, with readers afforded
choices in the form of these copies.

KENNEY concluded that digital technology offers an electronic means for a
library preservation effort to pay for itself.  If a brittle-book program
included the means of disseminating reprints of books that are in demand
by libraries and researchers alike, the initial investment in capture
could be recovered and used to preserve additional but less popular
books.  She disclosed that an economic model for a self-sustaining
program could be developed for CXP's report to the Commission on
Preservation and Access (CPA).

KENNEY stressed that the focus of CXP has been on obtaining high quality
in a production environment.  The use of digital technology is viewed as
an affordable alternative to other reformatting options.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
ANDRE * Overview and history of NATDP * Various agricultural CD-ROM
products created inhouse and by service bureaus * Pilot project on
Internet transmission * Additional products in progress *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Pamela ANDRE, associate director for automation, National Agricultural
Text Digitizing Program (NATDP), National Agricultural Library (NAL),
presented an overview of NATDP, which has been underway at NAL the last
four years, before Judith ZIDAR discussed the technical details.  ANDRE
defined agricultural information as a broad range of material going from
basic and applied research in the hard sciences to the one-page pamphlets
that are distributed by the cooperative state extension services on such
things as how to grow blueberries.

NATDP began in late 1986 with a meeting of representatives from the
land-grant library community to deal with the issue of electronic
information.  NAL and forty-five of these libraries banded together to
establish this project--to evaluate the technology for converting what
were then source documents in paper form into electronic form, to provide
access to that digital information, and then to distribute it.
Distributing that material to the community--the university community as
well as the extension service community, potentially down to the county
level--constituted the group's chief concern.

Since January 1988 (when the microcomputer-based scanning system was
installed at NAL), NATDP has done a variety of things, concerning which
ZIDAR would provide further details.  For example, the first technology
considered in the project's discussion phase was digital videodisc, which
indicates how long ago it was conceived.

Over the four years of this project, four separate CD-ROM products on
four different agricultural topics were created, two at a
scanning-and-OCR station installed at NAL, and two by service bureaus.
Thus, NATDP has gained comparative information in terms of those relative
costs.  Each of these products contained the full ASCII text as well as
page images of the material, or between 4,000 and 6,000 pages of material
on these disks.  Topics included aquaculture, food, agriculture and
science (i.e., international agriculture and research), acid rain, and
Agent Orange, which was the final product distributed (approximately
eighteen months before the Workshop).

The third phase of NATDP focused on delivery mechanisms other than
CD-ROM.  At the suggestion of Clifford LYNCH, who was a technical
consultant to the project at this point, NATDP became involved with the
Internet and initiated a project with the help of North Carolina State
University, in which fourteen of the land-grant university libraries are
transmitting digital images over the Internet in response to interlibrary
loan requests--a topic for another meeting.  At this point, the pilot
project had been completed for about a year and the final report would be
available shortly after the Workshop.  In the meantime, the project's
success had led to its extension.  (ANDRE noted that one of the first
things done under the program title was to select a retrieval package to
use with subsequent products; Windows Personal Librarian was the package
of choice after a lengthy evaluation.)

Three additional products had been planned and were in progress:

     1) An arrangement with the American Society of Agronomy--a
     professional society that has published the Agronomy Journal since
     about 1908--to scan and create bit-mapped images of its journal.
     ASA granted permission first to put and then to distribute this
     material in electronic form, to hold it at NAL, and to use these
     electronic images as a mechanism to deliver documents or print out
     material for patrons, among other uses.  Effectively, NAL has the
     right to use this material in support of its program.
     (Significantly, this arrangement offers a potential cooperative
     model for working with other professional societies in agriculture
     to try to do the same thing--put the journals of particular interest
     to agriculture research into electronic form.)

     2) An extension of the earlier product on aquaculture.

     3) The George Washington Carver Papers--a joint project with
     Tuskegee University to scan and convert from microfilm some 3,500
     images of Carver's papers, letters, and drawings.

It was anticipated that all of these products would appear no more than
six months after the Workshop.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
ZIDAR * (A separate arena for scanning) * Steps in creating a database *
Image capture, with and without performing OCR * Keying in tracking data
* Scanning, with electronic and manual tracking * Adjustments during
scanning process * Scanning resolutions * Compression * De-skewing and
filtering * Image capture from microform:  the papers and letters of
George Washington Carver * Equipment used for a scanning system *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Judith ZIDAR, coordinator, National Agricultural Text Digitizing Program
(NATDP), National Agricultural Library (NAL), illustrated the technical
details of NATDP, including her primary responsibility, scanning and
creating databases on a topic and putting them on CD-ROM.

(ZIDAR remarked a separate arena from the CD-ROM projects, although the
processing of the material is nearly identical, in which NATDP is also
scanning material and loading it on a Next microcomputer, which in turn
is linked to NAL's integrated library system.  Thus, searches in NAL's
bibliographic database will enable people to pull up actual page images
and text for any documents that have been entered.)

In accordance with the session's topic, ZIDAR focused her illustrated
talk on image capture, offering a primer on the three main steps in the
process:  1) assemble the printed publications; 2) design the database
(database design occurs in the process of preparing the material for
scanning; this step entails reviewing and organizing the material,
defining the contents--what will constitute a record, what kinds of
fields will be captured in terms of author, title, etc.); 3) perform a
certain amount of markup on the paper publications.  NAL performs this
task record by record, preparing work sheets or some other sort of
tracking material and designing descriptors and other enhancements to be
added to the data that will not be captured from the printed publication.
Part of this process also involves determining NATDP's file and directory
structure:  NATDP attempts to avoid putting more than approximately 100
images in a directory, because placing more than that on a CD-ROM would
reduce the access speed.

This up-front process takes approximately two weeks for a
6,000-7,000-page database.  The next step is to capture the page images.
How long this process takes is determined by the decision whether or not
to perform OCR.  Not performing OCR speeds the process, whereas text
capture requires greater care because of the quality of the image:  it
has to be straighter and allowance must be made for text on a page, not
just for the capture of photographs.

NATDP keys in tracking data, that is, a standard bibliographic record
including the title of the book and the title of the chapter, which will
later either become the access information or will be attached to the
front of a full-text record so that it is searchable.

Images are scanned from a bound or unbound publication, chiefly from
bound publications in the case of NATDP, however, because often they are
the only copies and the publications are returned to the shelves.  NATDP
usually scans one record at a time, because its database tracking system
tracks the document in that way and does not require further logical
separating of the images.  After performing optical character
recognition, NATDP moves the images off the hard disk and maintains a
volume sheet.  Though the system tracks electronically, all the
processing steps are also tracked manually with a log sheet.

ZIDAR next illustrated the kinds of adjustments that one can make when
scanning from paper and microfilm, for example, redoing images that need
special handling, setting for dithering or gray scale, and adjusting for
brightness or for the whole book at one time.

NATDP is scanning at 300 dots per inch, a standard scanning resolution.
Though adequate for capturing text that is all of a standard size, 300
dpi is unsuitable for any kind of photographic material or for very small
text.  Many scanners allow for different image formats, TIFF, of course,
being a de facto standard.  But if one intends to exchange images with
other people, the ability to scan other image formats, even if they are
less common, becomes highly desirable.

CCITT Group 4 is the standard compression for normal black-and-white
images, JPEG for gray scale or color.   ZIDAR recommended 1) using the
standard compressions, particularly if one attempts to make material
available and to allow users to download images and reuse them from
CD-ROMs; and 2) maintaining the ability to output an uncompressed image,
because in image exchange uncompressed images are more likely to be able
to cross platforms.

ZIDAR emphasized the importance of de-skewing and filtering as
requirements on NATDP's upgraded system.  For instance, scanning bound
books, particularly books published by the federal government whose pages
are skewed, and trying to scan them straight if OCR is to be performed,
is extremely time-consuming.  The same holds for filtering of
poor-quality or older materials.

ZIDAR described image capture from microform, using as an example three
reels from a sixty-seven-reel set of the papers and letters of George
Washington Carver that had been produced by Tuskegee University.  These
resulted in approximately 3,500 images, which NATDP had had scanned by
its service contractor, Science Applications International Corporation
(SAIC).  NATDP also created bibliographic records for access.  (NATDP did
not have such specialized equipment as a microfilm scanner.

Unfortunately, the process of scanning from microfilm was not an
unqualified success, ZIDAR reported:  because microfilm frame sizes vary,
occasionally some frames were missed, which without spending much time
and money could not be recaptured.

OCR could not be performed from the scanned images of the frames.  The
bleeding in the text simply output text, when OCR was run, that could not
even be edited.  NATDP tested for negative versus positive images,
landscape versus portrait orientation, and single- versus dual-page
microfilm, none of which seemed to affect the quality of the image; but
also on none of them could OCR be performed.

In selecting the microfilm they would use, therefore, NATDP had other
factors in mind.  ZIDAR noted two factors that influenced the quality of
the images:  1) the inherent quality of the original and 2) the amount of
size reduction on the pages.

The Carver papers were selected because they are informative and visually
interesting, treat a single subject, and are valuable in their own right.
The images were scanned and divided into logical records by SAIC, then
delivered, and loaded onto NATDP's system, where bibliographic
information taken directly from the images was added.  Scanning was
completed in summer 1991 and by the end of summer 1992 the disk was
scheduled to be published.

Problems encountered during processing included the following:  Because
the microfilm scanning had to be done in a batch, adjustment for
individual page variations was not possible.  The frame size varied on
account of the nature of the material, and therefore some of the frames
were missed while others were just partial frames.  The only way to go
back and capture this material was to print out the page with the
microfilm reader from the missing frame and then scan it in from the
page, which was extremely time-consuming.  The quality of the images
scanned from the printout of the microfilm compared unfavorably with that
of the original images captured directly from the microfilm.  The
inability to perform OCR also was a major disappointment.  At the time,
computer output microfilm was unavailable to test.

The equipment used for a scanning system was the last topic addressed by
ZIDAR.  The type of equipment that one would purchase for a scanning
system included:  a microcomputer, at least a 386, but preferably a 486;
a large hard disk, 380 megabyte at minimum; a multi-tasking operating
system that allows one to run some things in batch in the background
while scanning or doing text editing, for example, Unix or OS/2 and,
theoretically, Windows; a high-speed scanner and scanning software that
allows one to make the various adjustments mentioned earlier; a
high-resolution monitor (150 dpi ); OCR software and hardware to perform
text recognition; an optical disk subsystem on which to archive all the
images as the processing is done; file management and tracking software.

ZIDAR opined that the software one purchases was more important than the
hardware and might also cost more than the hardware, but it was likely to
prove critical to the success or failure of one's system.  In addition to
a stand-alone scanning workstation for image capture, then, text capture
requires one or two editing stations networked to this scanning station
to perform editing.  Editing the text takes two or three times as long as
capturing the images.

Finally, ZIDAR stressed the importance of buying an open system that allows
for more than one vendor, complies with standards, and can be upgraded.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
WATERS *Yale University Library's master plan to convert microfilm to
digital imagery (POB) * The place of electronic tools in the library of
the future * The uses of images and an image library * Primary input from
preservation microfilm * Features distinguishing POB from CXP and key
hypotheses guiding POB * Use of vendor selection process to facilitate
organizational work * Criteria for selecting vendor * Finalists and
results of process for Yale * Key factor distinguishing vendors *
Components, design principles, and some estimated costs of POB * Role of
preservation materials in developing imaging market * Factors affecting
quality and cost * Factors affecting the usability of complex documents
in image form *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Donald WATERS, head of the Systems Office, Yale University Library,
reported on the progress of a master plan for a project at Yale to
convert microfilm to digital imagery, Project Open Book (POB).  Stating
that POB was in an advanced stage of planning, WATERS detailed, in
particular, the process of selecting a vendor partner and several key
issues under discussion as Yale prepares to move into the project itself.
He commented first on the vision that serves as the context of POB and
then described its purpose and scope.

WATERS sees the library of the future not necessarily as an electronic
library but as a place that generates, preserves, and improves for its
clients ready access to both intellectual and physical recorded
knowledge.  Electronic tools must find a place in the library in the
context of this vision.  Several roles for electronic tools include
serving as:  indirect sources of electronic knowledge or as "finding"
aids (the on-line catalogues, the article-level indices, registers for
documents and archives); direct sources of recorded knowledge; full-text
images; and various kinds of compound sources of recorded knowledge (the
so-called compound documents of Hypertext, mixed text and image,
mixed-text image format, and multimedia).

POB is looking particularly at images and an image library, the uses to
which images will be put (e.g., storage, printing, browsing, and then use
as input for other processes), OCR as a subsequent process to image
capture, or creating an image library, and also possibly generating
microfilm.

While input will come from a variety of sources, POB is considering
especially input from preservation microfilm.  A possible outcome is that
the film and paper which provide the input for the image library
eventually may go off into remote storage, and that the image library may
be the primary access tool.

The purpose and scope of POB focus on imaging.  Though related to CXP,
POB has two features which distinguish it:  1) scale--conversion of
10,000 volumes into digital image form; and 2) source--conversion from
microfilm.  Given these features, several key working hypotheses guide
POB, including:  1) Since POB is using microfilm, it is not concerned with
the image library as a preservation medium.  2) Digital imagery can improve
access to recorded knowledge through printing and network distribution at
a modest incremental cost of microfilm.  3) Capturing and storing documents
in a digital image form is necessary to further improvements in access.
(POB distinguishes between the imaging, digitizing process and OCR,
which at this stage it does not plan to perform.)

Currently in its first or organizational phase, POB found that it could
use a vendor selection process to facilitate a good deal of the
organizational work (e.g., creating a project team and advisory board,
confirming the validity of the plan, establishing the cost of the project
and a budget, selecting the materials to convert, and then raising the
necessary funds).

POB developed numerous selection criteria, including:  a firm committed
to image-document management, the ability to serve as systems integrator
in a large-scale project over several years, interest in developing the
requisite software as a standard rather than a custom product, and a
willingness to invest substantial resources in the project itself.

Two vendors, DEC and Xerox, were selected as finalists in October 1991,
and with the support of the Commission on Preservation and Access, each
was commissioned to generate a detailed requirements analysis for the
project and then to submit a formal proposal for the completion of the
project, which included a budget and costs. The terms were that POB would
pay the loser.  The results for Yale of involving a vendor included:
broad involvement of Yale staff across the board at a relatively low
cost, which may have long-term significance in carrying out the project
(twenty-five to thirty university people are engaged in POB); better
understanding of the factors that affect corporate response to markets
for imaging products; a competitive proposal; and a more sophisticated
view of the imaging markets.

The most important factor that distinguished the vendors under
consideration was their identification with the customer.  The size and
internal complexity of the company also was an important factor.  POB was
looking at large companies that had substantial resources.  In the end,
the process generated for Yale two competitive proposals, with Xerox's
the clear winner.  WATERS then described the components of the proposal,
the design principles, and some of the costs estimated for the process.

Components are essentially four:  a conversion subsystem, a
network-accessible storage subsystem for 10,000 books (and POB expects
200 to 600 dpi storage), browsing stations distributed on the campus
network, and network access to the image printers.

Among the design principles, POB wanted conversion at the highest
possible resolution.  Assuming TIFF files, TIFF files with Group 4
compression, TCP/IP, and ethernet network on campus, POB wanted a
client-server approach with image documents distributed to the
workstations and made accessible through native workstation interfaces
such as Windows.  POB also insisted on a phased approach to
implementation:  1) a stand-alone, single-user, low-cost entry into the
business with a workstation focused on conversion and allowing POB to
explore user access; 2) movement into a higher-volume conversion with
network-accessible storage and multiple access stations; and 3) a
high-volume conversion, full-capacity storage, and multiple browsing
stations distributed throughout the campus.

The costs proposed for start-up assumed the existence of the Yale network
and its two DocuTech image printers.  Other start-up costs are estimated
at $1 million over the three phases.  At the end of the project, the annual
operating costs estimated primarily for the software and hardware proposed
come to about $60,000, but these exclude costs for labor needed in the
conversion process, network and printer usage, and facilities management.

Finally, the selection process produced for Yale a more sophisticated
view of the imaging markets:  the management of complex documents in
image form is not a preservation problem, not a library problem, but a
general problem in a broad, general industry.  Preservation materials are
useful for developing that market because of the qualities of the
material.  For example, much of it is out of copyright.  The resolution
of key issues such as the quality of scanning and image browsing also
will affect development of that market.

The technology is readily available but changing rapidly.  In this
context of rapid change, several factors affect quality and cost, to
which POB intends to pay particular attention, for example, the various
levels of resolution that can be achieved.  POB believes it can bring
resolution up to 600 dpi, but an interpolation process from 400 to 600 is
more likely.  The variation quality in microfilm will prove to be a
highly important factor.  POB may reexamine the standards used to film in
the first place by looking at this process as a follow-on to microfilming.

Other important factors include:  the techniques available to the
operator for handling material, the ways of integrating quality control
into the digitizing work flow, and a work flow that includes indexing and
storage.  POB's requirement was to be able to deal with quality control
at the point of scanning.  Thus, thanks to Xerox, POB anticipates having
a mechanism which will allow it not only to scan in batch form, but to
review the material as it goes through the scanner and control quality
from the outset.

The standards for measuring quality and costs depend greatly on the uses
of the material, including subsequent OCR, storage, printing, and
browsing.  But especially at issue for POB is the facility for browsing.
This facility, WATERS said, is perhaps the weakest aspect of imaging
technology and the most in need of development.

A variety of factors affect the usability of complex documents in image
form, among them:  1) the ability of the system to handle the full range
of document types, not just monographs but serials, multi-part
monographs, and manuscripts; 2) the location of the database of record
for bibliographic information about the image document, which POB wants
to enter once and in the most useful place, the on-line catalog; 3) a
document identifier for referencing the bibliographic information in one
place and the images in another; 4) the technique for making the basic
internal structure of the document accessible to the reader; and finally,
5) the physical presentation on the CRT of those documents.  POB is ready
to complete this phase now.  One last decision involves deciding which
material to scan.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * TIFF files constitute de facto standard * NARA's experience
with image conversion software and text conversion * RFC 1314 *
Considerable flux concerning available hardware and software solutions *
NAL through-put rate during scanning * Window management questions *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

In the question-and-answer period that followed WATERS's presentation,
the following points emerged:

     * ZIDAR's statement about using TIFF files as a standard meant de
     facto standard.  This is what most people use and typically exchange
     with other groups, across platforms, or even occasionally across
     display software.

     * HOLMES commented on the unsuccessful experience of NARA in
     attempting to run image-conversion software or to exchange between
     applications:  What are supposedly TIFF files go into other software
     that is supposed to be able to accept TIFF but cannot recognize the
     format and cannot deal with it, and thus renders the exchange
     useless.  Re text conversion, he noted the different recognition
     rates obtained by substituting the make and model of scanners in
     NARA's recent test of an "intelligent" character-recognition product
     for a new company.  In the selection of hardware and software,
     HOLMES argued, software no longer constitutes the overriding factor
     it did until about a year ago; rather it is perhaps important to
     look at both now.

     * Danny Cohen and Alan Katz of the University of Southern California
     Information Sciences Institute began circulating as an Internet RFC
     (RFC 1314) about a month ago a standard for a TIFF interchange
     format for Internet distribution of monochrome bit-mapped images,
     which LYNCH said he believed would be used as a de facto standard.

     * FLEISCHHAUER's impression from hearing these reports and thinking
     about AM's experience was that there is considerable flux concerning
     available hardware and software solutions.  HOOTON agreed and
     commented at the same time on ZIDAR's statement that the equipment
     employed affects the results produced.  One cannot draw a complete
     conclusion by saying it is difficult or impossible to perform OCR
     from scanning microfilm, for example, with that device,  that set of
     parameters, and system requirements, because numerous other people
     are accomplishing just that, using other components, perhaps.
     HOOTON opined that both the hardware and the software were highly
     important.  Most of the problems discussed today have been solved in
     numerous different ways by other people.  Though it is good to be
     cognizant of various experiences, this is not to say that it will
     always be thus.

     * At NAL, the through-put rate of the scanning process for paper,
     page by page, performing OCR, ranges from 300 to 600 pages per day;
     not performing OCR is considerably faster, although how much faster
     is not known.  This is for scanning from bound books, which is much
     slower.

     * WATERS commented on window management questions:  DEC proposed an
     X-Windows solution which was problematical for two reasons.  One was
     POB's requirement to be able to manipulate images on the workstation
     and bring them down to the workstation itself and the other was
     network usage.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
THOMA * Illustration of deficiencies in scanning and storage process *
Image quality in this process * Different costs entailed by better image
quality * Techniques for overcoming various de-ficiencies:  fixed
thresholding, dynamic thresholding, dithering, image merge * Page edge
effects *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

George THOMA, chief, Communications Engineering Branch, National Library
of Medicine (NLM), illustrated several of the deficiencies discussed by
the previous speakers.  He introduced the topic of special problems by
noting the advantages of electronic imaging.  For example, it is regenerable
because it is a coded file, and real-time quality control is possible with
electronic capture, whereas in photographic capture it is not.

One of the difficulties discussed in the scanning and storage process was
image quality which, without belaboring the obvious, means different
things for maps, medical X-rays, or broadcast television.  In the case of
documents, THOMA said, image quality boils down to legibility of the
textual parts, and fidelity in the case of gray or color photo print-type
material.  Legibility boils down to scan density, the standard in most
cases being 300 dpi.  Increasing the resolution with scanners that
perform 600 or 1200 dpi, however, comes at a cost.

Better image quality entails at least four different kinds of costs:  1)
equipment costs, because the CCD (i.e., charge-couple device) with
greater number of elements costs more;  2) time costs that translate to
the actual capture costs, because manual labor is involved (the time is
also dependent on the fact that more data has to be moved around in the
machine in the scanning or network devices that perform the scanning as
well as the storage);  3) media costs, because at high resolutions larger
files have to be stored; and 4) transmission costs, because there is just
more data to be transmitted.

But while resolution takes care of the issue of legibility in image
quality, other deficiencies have to do with contrast and elements on the
page scanned or the image that needed to be removed or clarified.  Thus,
THOMA proceeded to illustrate various deficiencies, how they are
manifested, and several techniques to overcome them.

Fixed thresholding was the first technique described, suitable for
black-and-white text, when the contrast does not vary over the page.  One
can have many different threshold levels in scanning devices.  Thus,
THOMA offered an example of extremely poor contrast, which resulted from
the fact that the stock was a heavy red.  This is the sort of image that
when microfilmed fails to provide any legibility whatsoever.  Fixed
thresholding is the way to change the black-to-red contrast to the
desired black-to-white contrast.

Other examples included material that had been browned or yellowed by
age.  This was also a case of contrast deficiency, and correction was
done by fixed thresholding.  A final example boils down to the same
thing, slight variability, but it is not significant.  Fixed thresholding
solves this problem as well.  The microfilm equivalent is certainly legible,
but it comes with dark areas.  Though THOMA did not have a slide of the
microfilm in this case, he did show the reproduced electronic image.

When one has variable contrast over a page or the lighting over the page
area varies, especially in the case where a bound volume has light
shining on it, the image must be processed by a dynamic thresholding
scheme.  One scheme, dynamic averaging, allows the threshold level not to
be fixed but to be recomputed for every pixel from the neighboring
characteristics.  The neighbors of a pixel determine where the threshold
should be set for that pixel.

THOMA showed an example of a page that had been made deficient by a
variety of techniques, including a burn mark, coffee stains, and a yellow
marker.  Application of a fixed-thresholding scheme, THOMA argued, might
take care of several deficiencies on the page but not all of them.
Performing the calculation for a dynamic threshold setting, however,
removes most of the deficiencies so that at least the text is legible.

Another problem is representing a gray level with black-and-white pixels
by a process known as dithering or electronic screening.  But dithering
does not provide good image quality for pure black-and-white textual
material.  THOMA illustrated this point with examples. Although its
suitability for photoprint is the reason for electronic screening or
dithering, it cannot be used for every compound image.  In the document
that was distributed by CXP, THOMA noticed that the dithered image of the
IEEE test chart evinced some deterioration in the text.  He presented an
extreme example of deterioration in the text in which compounded
documents had to be set right by other techniques.  The technique
illustrated by the present example was an image merge in which the page
is scanned twice and the settings go from fixed threshold to the
dithering matrix; the resulting images are merged to give the best
results with each technique.

THOMA illustrated how dithering is also used in nonphotographic or
nonprint materials with an example of a grayish page from a medical text,
which was reproduced to show all of the gray that appeared in the
original.  Dithering provided a reproduction of all the gray in the
original of another example from the same text.

THOMA finally illustrated the problem of bordering, or page-edge,
effects.  Books and bound volumes that are placed on a photocopy machine
or a scanner produce page-edge effects that are undesirable for two
reasons:  1) the aesthetics of the image; after all, if the image is to
be preserved, one does not necessarily want to keep all of its
deficiencies; 2) compression (with the bordering problem THOMA
illustrated, the compression ratio deteriorated tremendously).  One way
to eliminate this more serious problem is to have the operator at the
point of scanning window the part of the image that is desirable and
automatically turn all of the pixels out of that picture to white.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
FLEISCHHAUER * AM's experience with scanning bound materials * Dithering
*
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Carl FLEISCHHAUER, coordinator, American Memory, Library of Congress,
reported AM's experience with scanning bound materials, which he likened
to the problems involved in using photocopying machines.  Very few
devices in the industry offer book-edge scanning, let alone book cradles.
The problem may be unsolvable, FLEISCHHAUER said, because a large enough
market does not exist for a preservation-quality scanner.  AM is using a
Kurzweil scanner, which is a book-edge scanner now sold by Xerox.

Devoting the remainder of his brief presentation to dithering,
FLEISCHHAUER related AM's experience with a contractor who was using
unsophisticated equipment and software to reduce moire patterns from
printed halftones.  AM took the same image and used the dithering
algorithm that forms part of the same Kurzweil Xerox scanner; it
disguised moire patterns much more effectively.

FLEISCHHAUER also observed that dithering produces a binary file which is
useful for numerous purposes, for example, printing it on a laser printer
without having to "re-halftone" it.  But it tends to defeat efficient
compression, because the very thing that dithers to reduce moire patterns
also tends to work against compression schemes.  AM thought the
difference in image quality was worth it.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Relative use as a criterion for POB's selection of books to
be converted into digital form *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the discussion period, WATERS noted that one of the criteria for
selecting books among the 10,000 to be converted into digital image form
would be how much relative use they would receive--a subject still
requiring evaluation.  The challenge will be to understand whether
coherent bodies of material will increase usage or whether POB should
seek material that is being used, scan that, and make it more accessible.
POB might decide to digitize materials that are already heavily used, in
order to make them more accessible and decrease wear on them.  Another
approach would be to provide a large body of intellectually coherent
material that may be used more in digital form than it is currently used
in microfilm.  POB would seek material that was out of copyright.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
BARONAS * Origin and scope of AIIM * Types of documents produced in
AIIM's standards program * Domain of AIIM's standardization work * AIIM's
structure * TC 171 and MS23 * Electronic image management standards *
Categories of EIM standardization where AIIM standards are being
developed *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Jean BARONAS, senior manager, Department of Standards and Technology,
Association for Information and Image Management (AIIM), described the
not-for-profit association and the national and international programs
for standardization in which AIIM is active.

Accredited for twenty-five years as the nation's standards development
organization for document image management, AIIM began life in a library
community developing microfilm standards.  Today the association
maintains both its library and business-image management standardization
activities--and has moved into electronic image-management
standardization (EIM).

BARONAS defined the program's scope.  AIIM deals with:  1) the
terminology of standards and of the technology it uses; 2) methods of
measurement for the systems, as well as quality; 3) methodologies for
users to evaluate and measure quality; 4) the features of apparatus used
to manage and edit images; and 5) the procedures used to manage images.

BARONAS noted that three types of documents are produced in the AIIM
standards program:  the first two, accredited by the American National
Standards Institute (ANSI), are standards and standard recommended
practices.  Recommended practices differ from standards in that they
contain more tutorial information.  A technical report is not an ANSI
standard.  Because AIIM's policies and procedures for developing
standards are approved by ANSI, its standards are labeled ANSI/AIIM,
followed by the number and title of the standard.

BARONAS then illustrated the domain of AIIM's standardization work.  For
example, AIIM is the administrator of the U.S. Technical Advisory Group
(TAG) to the International Standards Organization's (ISO) technical
committee, TC l7l Micrographics and Optical Memories for Document and
Image Recording, Storage, and Use.  AIIM officially works through ANSI in
the international standardization process.

BARONAS described AIIM's structure, including its board of directors, its
standards board of twelve individuals active in the image-management
industry, its strategic planning and legal admissibility task forces, and
its National Standards Council, which is comprised of the members of a
number of organizations who vote on every AIIM standard before it is
published.  BARONAS pointed out that AIIM's liaisons deal with numerous
other standards developers, including the optical disk community, office
and publishing systems, image-codes-and-character set committees, and the
National Information Standards Organization (NISO).

BARONAS illustrated the procedures of TC l7l, which covers all aspects of
image management.  When AIIM's national program has conceptualized a new
project, it is usually submitted to the international level, so that the
member countries of TC l7l can simultaneously work on the development of
the standard or the technical report.  BARONAS also illustrated a classic
microfilm standard, MS23, which deals with numerous imaging concepts that
apply to electronic imaging.  Originally developed in the l970s, revised
in the l980s, and revised again in l991, this standard is scheduled for
another revision.  MS23 is an active standard whereby users may propose
new density ranges and new methods of evaluating film images in the
standard's revision.

BARONAS detailed several electronic image-management standards, for
instance, ANSI/AIIM MS44, a quality-control guideline for scanning 8.5"
by 11" black-and-white office documents.  This standard is used with the
IEEE fax image--a continuous tone photographic image with gray scales,
text, and several continuous tone pictures--and AIIM test target number
2, a representative document used in office document management.

BARONAS next outlined the four categories of EIM standardization in which
AIIM standards are being developed:  transfer and retrieval, evaluation,
optical disc and document scanning applications, and design and
conversion of documents.  She detailed several of the main projects of
each:  1) in the category of image transfer and retrieval, a bi-level
image transfer format, ANSI/AIIM MS53, which is a proposed standard that
describes a file header for image transfer between unlike systems when
the images are compressed using G3 and G4 compression; 2) the category of
image evaluation, which includes the AIIM-proposed TR26 tutorial on image
resolution (this technical report will treat the differences and
similarities between classical or photographic and electronic imaging);
3) design and conversion, which includes a proposed technical report
called "Forms Design Optimization for EIM" (this report considers how
general-purpose business forms can be best designed so that scanning is
optimized; reprographic characteristics such as type, rules, background,
tint, and color will likewise be treated in the technical report); 4)
disk and document scanning applications includes a project a) on planning
platters and disk management, b) on generating an application profile for
EIM when images are stored and distributed on CD-ROM, and c) on
evaluating SCSI2, and how a common command set can be generated for SCSI2
so that document scanners are more easily integrated.  (ANSI/AIIM MS53
will also apply to compressed images.)

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
BATTIN * The implications of standards for preservation * A major
obstacle to successful cooperation * A hindrance to access in the digital
environment * Standards a double-edged sword for those concerned with the
preservation of the human record * Near-term prognosis for reliable
archival standards * Preservation concerns for electronic media * Need
for reconceptualizing our preservation principles * Standards in the real
world and the politics of reproduction * Need to redefine the concept of
archival and to begin to think in terms of life cycles * Cooperation and
the La Guardia Eight * Concerns generated by discussions on the problems
of preserving text and image * General principles to be adopted in a
world without standards *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Patricia BATTIN, president, the Commission on Preservation and Access
(CPA), addressed the implications of standards for preservation.  She
listed several areas where the library profession and the analog world of
the printed book had made enormous contributions over the past hundred
years--for example, in bibliographic formats, binding standards, and, most
important, in determining what constitutes longevity or archival quality.

Although standards have lightened the preservation burden through the
development of national and international collaborative programs,
nevertheless, a pervasive mistrust of other people's standards remains a
major obstacle to successful cooperation, BATTIN said.

The zeal to achieve perfection, regardless of the cost, has hindered
rather than facilitated access in some instances, and in the digital
environment, where no real standards exist, has brought an ironically
just reward.

BATTIN argued that standards are a double-edged sword for those concerned
with the preservation of the human record, that is, the provision of
access to recorded knowledge in a multitude of media as far into the
future as possible.  Standards are essential to facilitate
interconnectivity and access, but, BATTIN said, as LYNCH pointed out
yesterday, if set too soon they can hinder creativity, expansion of
capability, and the broadening of access.  The characteristics of
standards for digital imagery differ radically from those for analog
imagery.  And the nature of digital technology implies continuing
volatility and change.  To reiterate, precipitous standard-setting can
inhibit creativity, but delayed standard-setting results in chaos.

Since in BATTIN'S opinion the near-term prognosis for reliable archival
standards, as defined by librarians in the analog world, is poor, two
alternatives remain:  standing pat with the old technology, or
reconceptualizing.

Preservation concerns for electronic media fall into two general domains.
One is the continuing assurance of access to knowledge originally
generated, stored, disseminated, and used in electronic form.  This
domain contains several subdivisions, including 1) the closed,
proprietary systems discussed the previous day, bundled information such
as electronic journals and government agency records, and electronically
produced or captured raw data; and 2) the application of digital
technologies to the reformatting of materials originally published on a
deteriorating analog medium such as acid paper or videotape.

The preservation of electronic media requires a reconceptualizing of our
preservation principles during a volatile, standardless transition which
may last far longer than any of us envision today.  BATTIN urged the
necessity of shifting focus from assessing, measuring, and setting
standards for the permanence of the medium to the concept of managing
continuing access to information stored on a variety of media and
requiring a variety of ever-changing hardware and software for access--a
fundamental shift for the library profession.

BATTIN offered a primer on how to move forward with reasonable confidence
in a world without standards.  Her comments fell roughly into two sections:
1) standards in the real world and 2) the politics of reproduction.

In regard to real-world standards, BATTIN argued the need to redefine the
concept of archive and to begin to think in terms of life cycles.  In
the past, the naive assumption that paper would last forever produced a
cavalier attitude toward life cycles.  The transient nature of the
electronic media has compelled people to recognize and accept upfront the
concept of life cycles in place of permanency.

Digital standards have to be developed and set in a cooperative context
to ensure efficient exchange of information.  Moreover, during this
transition period, greater flexibility concerning how concepts such as
backup copies and archival copies in the CXP are defined is necessary,
or the opportunity to move forward will be lost.

In terms of cooperation, particularly in the university setting, BATTIN
also argued the need to avoid going off in a hundred different
directions.  The CPA has catalyzed a small group of universities called
the La Guardia Eight--because La Guardia Airport is where meetings take
place--Harvard, Yale, Cornell, Princeton, Penn State, Tennessee,
Stanford, and USC, to develop a digital preservation consortium to look
at all these issues and develop de facto standards as we move along,
instead of waiting for something that is officially blessed.  Continuing
to apply analog values and definitions of standards to the digital
environment, BATTIN said, will effectively lead to forfeiture of the
benefits of digital technology to research and scholarship.

Under the second rubric, the politics of reproduction, BATTIN reiterated
an oft-made argument concerning the electronic library, namely, that it
is more difficult to transform than to create, and nowhere is that belief
expressed more dramatically than in the conversion of brittle books to
new media.  Preserving information published in electronic media involves
making sure the information remains accessible and that digital
information is not lost through reproduction.  In the analog world of
photocopies and microfilm, the issue of fidelity to the original becomes
paramount, as do issues of "Whose fidelity?" and "Whose original?"

BATTIN elaborated these arguments with a few examples from a recent study
conducted by the CPA on the problems of preserving text and image.
Discussions with scholars, librarians, and curators in a variety of
disciplines dependent on text and image generated a variety of concerns,
for example:  1) Copy what is, not what the technology is capable of.
This is very important for the history of ideas.  Scholars wish to know
what the author saw and worked from.  And make available at the
workstation the opportunity to erase all the defects and enhance the
presentation.  2) The fidelity of reproduction--what is good enough, what
can we afford, and the difference it makes--issues of subjective versus
objective resolution.  3) The differences between primary and secondary
users.  Restricting the definition of primary user to the one in whose
discipline the material has been published runs one headlong into the
reality that these printed books have had a host of other users from a
host of other disciplines, who not only were looking for very different
things, but who also shared values very different from those of the
primary user.  4) The relationship of the standard of reproduction to new
capabilities of scholarship--the browsing standard versus an archival
standard.  How good must the archival standard be?  Can a distinction be
drawn between potential users in setting standards for reproduction?
Archival storage, use copies, browsing copies--ought an attempt to set
standards even be made?  5) Finally, costs.  How much are we prepared to
pay to capture absolute fidelity?  What are the trade-offs between vastly
enhanced access, degrees of fidelity, and costs?

These standards, BATTIN concluded, serve to complicate further the
reproduction process, and add to the long list of technical standards
that are necessary to ensure widespread access.  Ways to articulate and
analyze the costs that are attached to the different levels of standards
must be found.

Given the chaos concerning standards, which promises to linger for the
foreseeable future, BATTIN urged adoption of the following general
principles:

     * Strive to understand the changing information requirements of
     scholarly disciplines as more and more technology is integrated into
     the process of research and scholarly communication in order to meet
     future scholarly needs, not to build for the past.  Capture
     deteriorating information at the highest affordable resolution, even
     though the dissemination and display technologies will lag.

     * Develop cooperative mechanisms to foster agreement on protocols
     for document structure and other interchange mechanisms necessary
     for widespread dissemination and use before official standards are
     set.

     * Accept that, in a transition period, de facto standards will have
     to be developed.

     * Capture information in a way that keeps all options open and
     provides for total convertibility:  OCR, scanning of microfilm,
     producing microfilm from scanned documents, etc.

     * Work closely with the generators of information and the builders
     of networks and databases to ensure that continuing accessibility is
     a primary concern from the beginning.

     * Piggyback on standards under development for the broad market, and
     avoid library-specific standards; work with the vendors, in order to
     take advantage of that which is being standardized for the rest of
     the world.

     * Concentrate efforts on managing permanence in the digital world,
     rather than perfecting the longevity of a particular medium.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Additional comments on TIFF *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the brief discussion period that followed BATTIN's presentation,
BARONAS explained that TIFF was not developed in collaboration with or
under the auspices of AIIM.  TIFF is a company product, not a standard,
is owned by two corporations, and is always changing.  BARONAS also
observed that ANSI/AIIM MS53, a bi-level image file transfer format that
allows unlike systems to exchange images, is compatible with TIFF as well
as with DEC's architecture and IBM's MODCA/IOCA.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
HOOTON * Several questions to be considered in discussing text conversion
*
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

HOOTON introduced the final topic, text conversion, by noting that it is
becoming an increasingly important part of the imaging business.  Many
people now realize that it enhances their system to be able to have more
and more character data as part of their imaging system.  Re the issue of
OCR versus rekeying, HOOTON posed several questions:  How does one get
text into computer-readable form?  Does one use automated processes?
Does one attempt to eliminate the use of operators where possible?
Standards for accuracy, he said, are extremely important:  it makes a
major difference in cost and time whether one sets as a standard 98.5
percent acceptance or 99.5 percent.  He mentioned outsourcing as a
possibility for converting text.  Finally, what one does with the image
to prepare it for the recognition process is also important, he said,
because such preparation changes how recognition is viewed, as well as
facilitates recognition itself.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
LESK * Roles of participants in CORE * Data flow * The scanning process *
The image interface * Results of experiments involving the use of
electronic resources and traditional paper copies * Testing the issue of
serendipity * Conclusions *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Michael LESK, executive director, Computer Science Research, Bell
Communications Research, Inc. (Bellcore), discussed the Chemical Online
Retrieval Experiment (CORE), a cooperative project involving Cornell
University, OCLC, Bellcore, and the American Chemical Society (ACS).

LESK spoke on 1) how the scanning was performed, including the unusual
feature of page segmentation, and 2) the use made of the text and the
image in experiments.

Working with the chemistry journals (because ACS has been saving its
typesetting tapes since the mid-1970s and thus has a significant back-run
of the most important chemistry journals in the United States), CORE is
attempting to create an automated chemical library.  Approximately a
quarter of the pages by square inch are made up of images of
quasi-pictorial material; dealing with the graphic components of the
pages is extremely important.  LESK described the roles of participants
in CORE:  1) ACS provides copyright permission, journals on paper,
journals on microfilm, and some of the definitions of the files; 2) at
Bellcore, LESK chiefly performs the data preparation, while Dennis Egan
performs experiments on the users of chemical abstracts, and supplies the
indexing and numerous magnetic tapes;  3) Cornell provides the site of the
experiment; 4) OCLC develops retrieval software and other user interfaces.
Various manufacturers and publishers have furnished other help.

Concerning data flow, Bellcore receives microfilm and paper from ACS; the
microfilm is scanned by outside vendors, while the paper is scanned
inhouse on an Improvision scanner, twenty pages per minute at 300 dpi,
which provides sufficient quality for all practical uses.  LESK would
prefer to have more gray level, because one of the ACS journals prints on
some colored pages, which creates a problem.

Bellcore performs all this scanning, creates a page-image file, and also
selects from the pages the graphics, to mix with the text file (which is
discussed later in the Workshop).  The user is always searching the ASCII
file, but she or he may see a display based on the ASCII or a display
based on the images.

LESK illustrated how the program performs page analysis, and the image
interface.  (The user types several words, is presented with a list--
usually of the titles of articles contained in an issue--that derives
from the ASCII, clicks on an icon and receives an image that mirrors an
ACS page.)  LESK also illustrated an alternative interface, based on text
on the ASCII, the so-called SuperBook interface from Bellcore.

LESK next presented the results of an experiment conducted by Dennis Egan
and involving thirty-six students at Cornell, one third of them
undergraduate chemistry majors, one third senior undergraduate chemistry
majors, and one third graduate chemistry students.  A third of them
received the paper journals, the traditional paper copies and chemical
abstracts on paper.  A third received image displays of the pictures of
the pages, and a third received the text display with pop-up graphics.

The students were given several questions made up by some chemistry
professors.  The questions fell into five classes, ranging from very easy
to very difficult, and included questions designed to simulate browsing
as well as a traditional information retrieval-type task.

LESK furnished the following results.  In the straightforward question
search--the question being, what is the phosphorus oxygen bond distance
and hydroxy phosphate?--the students were told that they could take
fifteen minutes and, then, if they wished, give up.  The students with
paper took more than fifteen minutes on average, and yet most of them
gave up.  The students with either electronic format, text or image,
received good scores in reasonable time, hardly ever had to give up, and
usually found the right answer.

In the browsing study, the students were given a list of eight topics,
told to imagine that an issue of the Journal of the American Chemical
Society had just appeared on their desks, and were also told to flip
through it and to find topics mentioned in the issue.  The average scores
were about the same.  (The students were told to answer yes or no about
whether or not particular topics appeared.)  The errors, however, were
quite different.  The students with paper rarely said that something
appeared when it had not.  But they often failed to find something
actually mentioned in the issue.  The computer people found numerous
things, but they also frequently said that a topic was mentioned when it
was not.  (The reason, of course, was that they were performing word
searches.  They were finding that words were mentioned and they were
concluding that they had accomplished their task.)

This question also contained a trick to test the issue of serendipity.
The students were given another list of eight topics and instructed,
without taking a second look at the journal, to recall how many of this
new list of eight topics were in this particular issue.  This was an
attempt to see if they performed better at remembering what they were not
looking for.  They all performed about the same, paper or electronics,
about 62 percent accurate.  In short, LESK said, people were not very
good when it came to serendipity, but they were no worse at it with
computers than they were with paper.

(LESK gave a parenthetical illustration of the learning curve of students
who used SuperBook.)

The students using the electronic systems started off worse than the ones
using print, but by the third of the three sessions in the series had
caught up to print.  As one might expect, electronics provide a much
better means of finding what one wants to read; reading speeds, once the
object of the search has been found, are about the same.

Almost none of the students could perform the hard task--the analogous
transformation.  (It would require the expertise of organic chemists to
complete.)  But an interesting result was that the students using the text
search performed terribly, while those using the image system did best.
That the text search system is driven by text offers the explanation.
Everything is focused on the text; to see the pictures, one must press
on an icon.  Many students found the right article containing the answer
to the question, but they did not click on the icon to bring up the right
figure and see it.  They did not know that they had found the right place,
and thus got it wrong.

The short answer demonstrated by this experiment was that in the event
one does not know what to read, one needs the electronic systems; the
electronic systems hold no advantage at the moment if one knows what to
read, but neither do they impose a penalty.

LESK concluded by commenting that, on one hand, the image system was easy
to use.  On the other hand, the text display system, which represented
twenty man-years of work in programming and polishing, was not winning,
because the text was not being read, just searched.  The much easier
system is highly competitive as well as remarkably effective for the
actual chemists.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
ERWAY * Most challenging aspect of working on AM * Assumptions guiding
AM's approach * Testing different types of service bureaus * AM's
requirement for 99.95 percent accuracy * Requirements for text-coding *
Additional factors influencing AM's approach to coding * Results of AM's
experience with rekeying * Other problems in dealing with service bureaus
* Quality control the most time-consuming aspect of contracting out
conversion * Long-term outlook uncertain *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

To Ricky ERWAY, associate coordinator, American Memory, Library of
Congress, the constant variety of conversion projects taking place
simultaneously represented perhaps the most challenging aspect of working
on AM.  Thus, the challenge was not to find a solution for text
conversion but a tool kit of solutions to apply to LC's varied
collections that need to be converted.  ERWAY limited her remarks to the
process of converting text to machine-readable form, and the variety of
LC's text collections, for example, bound volumes, microfilm, and
handwritten manuscripts.

Two assumptions have guided AM's approach, ERWAY said:  1) A desire not
to perform the conversion inhouse.  Because of the variety of formats and
types of texts, to capitalize the equipment and have the talents and
skills to operate them at LC would be extremely expensive.  Further, the
natural inclination to upgrade to newer and better equipment each year
made it reasonable for AM to focus on what it did best and seek external
conversion services.  Using service bureaus also allowed AM to have
several types of operations take place at the same time.  2) AM was not a
technology project, but an effort to improve access to library
collections.  Hence, whether text was converted using OCR or rekeying
mattered little to AM.  What mattered were cost and accuracy of results.

AM considered different types of service bureaus and selected three to
perform several small tests in order to acquire a sense of the field.
The sample collections with which they worked included handwritten
correspondence, typewritten manuscripts from the 1940s, and
eighteenth-century printed broadsides on microfilm.  On none of these
samples was OCR performed; they were all rekeyed.  AM had several special
requirements for the three service bureaus it had engaged.  For instance,
any errors in the original text were to be retained.  Working from bound
volumes or anything that could not be sheet-fed also constituted a factor
eliminating companies that would have performed OCR.

AM requires 99.95 percent accuracy, which, though it sounds high, often
means one or two errors per page.  The initial batch of test samples
contained several handwritten materials for which AM did not require
text-coding.  The results, ERWAY reported, were in all cases fairly
comparable:  for the most part, all three service bureaus achieved 99.95
percent accuracy.  AM was satisfied with the work but surprised at the cost.

As AM began converting whole collections, it retained the requirement for
99.95 percent accuracy and added requirements for text-coding.  AM needed
to begin performing work more than three years ago before LC requirements
for SGML applications had been established.  Since AM's goal was simply
to retain any of the intellectual content represented by the formatting
of the document (which would be lost if one performed a straight ASCII
conversion), AM used "SGML-like" codes.  These codes resembled SGML tags
but were used without the benefit of document-type definitions.  AM found
that many service bureaus were not yet SGML-proficient.

Additional factors influencing the approach AM took with respect to
coding included:  1) the inability of any known microcomputer-based
user-retrieval software to take advantage of SGML coding; and 2) the
multiple inconsistencies in format of the older documents, which
confirmed AM in its desire not to attempt to force the different formats
to conform to a single document-type definition (DTD) and thus create the
need for a separate DTD for each document.

The five text collections that AM has converted or is in the process of
converting include a collection of eighteenth-century broadsides, a
collection of pamphlets, two typescript document collections, and a
collection of 150 books.

ERWAY next reviewed the results of AM's experience with rekeying, noting
again that because the bulk of AM's materials are historical, the quality
of the text often does not lend itself to OCR.  While non-English
speakers are less likely to guess or elaborate or correct typos in the
original text, they are also less able to infer what we would; they also
are nearly incapable of converting handwritten text.  Another
disadvantage of working with overseas keyers is that they are much less
likely to telephone with questions, especially on the coding, with the
result that they develop their own rules as they encounter new
situations.

Government contracting procedures and time frames posed a major challenge
to performing the conversion.  Many service bureaus are not accustomed to
retaining the image, even if they perform OCR.  Thus, questions of image
format and storage media were somewhat novel to many of them.  ERWAY also
remarked other problems in dealing with service bureaus, for example,
their inability to perform text conversion from the kind of microfilm
that LC uses for preservation purposes.

But quality control, in ERWAY's experience, was the most time-consuming
aspect of contracting out conversion.  AM has been attempting to perform
a 10-percent quality review, looking at either every tenth document or
every tenth page to make certain that the service bureaus are maintaining
99.95 percent accuracy.  But even if they are complying with the
requirement for accuracy, finding errors produces a desire to correct
them and, in turn, to clean up the whole collection, which defeats the
purpose to some extent.  Even a double entry requires a
character-by-character comparison to the original to meet the accuracy
requirement.  LC is not accustomed to publish imperfect texts, which
makes attempting to deal with the industry standard an emotionally
fraught issue for AM.  As was mentioned in the previous day's discussion,
going from 99.95 to 99.99 percent accuracy usually doubles costs and
means a third keying or another complete run-through of the text.

Although AM has learned much from its experiences with various collections
and various service bureaus, ERWAY concluded pessimistically that no
breakthrough has been achieved.   Incremental improvements have occurred
in some of the OCR technology, some of the processes, and some of the
standards acceptances, which, though they may lead to somewhat lower costs,
do not offer much encouragement to many people who are anxiously awaiting
the day that the entire contents of LC are available on-line.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
ZIDAR * Several answers to why one attempts to perform full-text
conversion * Per page cost of performing OCR * Typical problems
encountered during editing * Editing poor copy OCR vs. rekeying *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Judith ZIDAR, coordinator, National Agricultural Text Digitizing Program
(NATDP), National Agricultural Library (NAL), offered several answers to
the question of why one attempts to perform full-text conversion:  1)
Text in an image can be read by a human but not by a computer, so of
course it is not searchable and there is not much one can do with it.  2)
Some material simply requires word-level access.  For instance, the legal
profession insists on full-text access to its material; with taxonomic or
geographic material, which entails numerous names, one virtually requires
word-level access.  3) Full text permits rapid browsing and searching,
something that cannot be achieved in an image with today's technology.
4) Text stored as ASCII and delivered in ASCII is standardized and highly
portable.  5) People just want full-text searching, even those who do not
know how to do it.  NAL, for the most part, is performing OCR at an
actual cost per average-size page of approximately $7.  NAL scans the
page to create the electronic image and passes it through the OCR device.

ZIDAR next rehearsed several typical problems encountered during editing.
Praising the celerity of her student workers, ZIDAR observed that editing
requires approximately five to ten minutes per page, assuming that there
are no large tables to audit.  Confusion among the three characters I, 1,
and l, constitutes perhaps the most common problem encountered.  Zeroes
and  O's also are  frequently confused.  Double M's create a particular
problem, even on clean pages.  They are so wide in most fonts that they
touch, and the system simply cannot tell where one letter ends and the
other begins.  Complex page formats occasionally fail to columnate
properly, which entails rescanning as though one were working with a
single column, entering the ASCII, and decolumnating for better
searching.  With proportionally spaced text, OCR can have difficulty
discerning what is a space and what are merely spaces between letters, as
opposed to spaces between words, and therefore will merge text or break
up words where it should not.

ZIDAR said that it can often take longer to edit a poor-copy OCR than to
key it from scratch.  NAL has also experimented with partial editing of
text, whereby project workers go into and clean up the format, removing
stray characters but not running a spell-check.  NAL corrects typos in
the title and authors' names, which provides a foothold for searching and
browsing.  Even extremely poor-quality OCR (e.g., 60-percent accuracy)
can still be searched, because numerous words are correct, while the
important words are probably repeated often enough that they are likely
to be found correct somewhere.  Librarians, however, cannot tolerate this
situation, though end users seem more willing to use this text for
searching, provided that NAL indicates that it is unedited.  ZIDAR
concluded that rekeying of text may be the best route to take, in spite
of numerous problems with quality control and cost.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Modifying an image before performing OCR * NAL's costs per
page *AM's costs per page and experience with Federal Prison Industries *
Elements comprising NATDP's costs per page * OCR and structured markup *
Distinction between the structure of a document and its representation
when put on the screen or printed *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

HOOTON prefaced the lengthy discussion that followed with several
comments about modifying an image before one reaches the point of
performing OCR.  For example, in regard to an application containing a
significant amount of redundant data, such as form-type data, numerous
companies today are working on various kinds of form renewal, prior to
going through a recognition process, by using dropout colors.  Thus,
acquiring access to form design or using electronic means are worth
considering.  HOOTON also noted that conversion usually makes or breaks
one's imaging system.  It is extremely important, extremely costly in
terms of either capital investment or service, and determines the quality
of the remainder of one's system, because it determines the character of
the raw material used by the system.

Concerning the four projects undertaken by NAL, two inside and two
performed by outside contractors, ZIDAR revealed that an in-house service
bureau executed the first at a cost between $8 and $10 per page for
everything, including building of the database.  The project undertaken
by the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR)
cost approximately $10 per page for the conversion, plus some expenses
for the software and building of the database.  The Acid Rain Project--a
two-disk set produced by the University of Vermont, consisting of
Canadian publications on acid rain--cost $6.70 per page for everything,
including keying of the text, which was double keyed, scanning of the
images, and building of the database.  The in-house project offered
considerable ease of convenience and greater control of the process.  On
the other hand, the service bureaus know their job and perform it
expeditiously, because they have more people.

As a useful comparison, ERWAY revealed AM's costs as follows:  $0.75
cents to $0.85 cents per thousand characters, with an average page
containing 2,700 characters.  Requirements for coding and imaging
increase the costs.  Thus, conversion of the text, including the coding,
costs approximately $3 per page.  (This figure does not include the
imaging and database-building included in the NAL costs.)  AM also
enjoyed a happy experience with Federal Prison Industries, which
precluded the necessity of going through the request-for-proposal process
to award a contract, because it is another government agency.  The
prisoners performed AM's rekeying just as well as other service bureaus
and proved handy as well.  AM shipped them the books, which they would
photocopy on a book-edge scanner.  They would perform the markup on
photocopies, return the books as soon as they were done with them,
perform the keying, and return the material to AM on WORM disks.

ZIDAR detailed the elements that constitute the previously noted cost of
approximately $7 per page.  Most significant is the editing, correction
of errors, and spell-checkings, which though they may sound easy to
perform require, in fact, a great deal of time.  Reformatting text also
takes a while, but a significant amount of NAL's expenses are for equipment,
which was extremely expensive when purchased because it was one of the few
systems on the market.  The costs of equipment are being amortized over
five years but are still quite high, nearly $2,000 per month.

HOCKEY raised a general question concerning OCR and the amount of editing
required (substantial in her experience) to generate the kind of
structured markup necessary for manipulating the text on the computer or
loading it into any retrieval system.  She wondered if the speakers could
extend the previous question about the cost-benefit of adding or exerting
structured markup.  ERWAY noted that several OCR systems retain italics,
bolding, and other spatial formatting.  While the material may not be in
the format desired, these systems possess the ability to remove the
original materials quickly from the hands of the people performing the
conversion, as well as to retain that information so that users can work
with it.  HOCKEY rejoined that the current thinking on markup is that one
should not say that something is italic or bold so much as why it is that
way.  To be sure, one needs to know that something was italicized, but
how can one get from one to the other?  One can map from the structure to
the typographic representation.

FLEISCHHAUER suggested that, given the 100 million items the Library
holds, it may not be possible for LC to do more than report that a thing
was in italics as opposed to why it was italics, although that may be
desirable in some contexts.  Promising to talk a bit during the afternoon
session about several experiments OCLC performed on automatic recognition
of document elements, and which they hoped to extend, WEIBEL said that in
fact one can recognize the major elements of a document with a fairly
high degree of reliability, at least as good as OCR.  STEVENS drew a
useful distinction between standard, generalized markup (i.e., defining
for a document-type definition the structure of the document), and what
he termed a style sheet, which had to do with italics, bolding, and other
forms of emphasis.  Thus, two different components are at work, one being
the structure of the document itself (its logic), and the other being its
representation when it is put on the screen or printed.

                                 ******

SESSION V.  APPROACHES TO PREPARING ELECTRONIC TEXTS

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
HOCKEY * Text in ASCII and the representation of electronic text versus
an image * The need to look at ways of using markup to assist retrieval *
The need for an encoding format that will be reusable and multifunctional
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Susan HOCKEY, director, Center for Electronic Texts in the Humanities
(CETH), Rutgers and Princeton Universities, announced that one talk
(WEIBEL's) was moved into this session from the morning and that David
Packard was unable to attend.  The session would attempt to focus more on
what one can do with a text in ASCII and the representation of electronic
text rather than just an image, what one can do with a computer that
cannot be done with a book or an image.  It would be argued that one can
do much more than just read a text, and from that starting point one can
use markup and methods of preparing the text to take full advantage of
the capability of the computer.  That would lead to a discussion of what
the European Community calls REUSABILITY, what may better be termed
DURABILITY, that is, how to prepare or make a text that will last a long
time and that can be used for as many applications as possible, which
would lead to issues of improving intellectual access.

HOCKEY urged the need to look at ways of using markup to facilitate retrieval,
not just for referencing or to help locate an item that is retrieved, but also to put markup tags in
a text to help retrieve the thing sought either with linguistic tagging or
interpretation.  HOCKEY also argued that little advancement had occurred in
the software tools currently available for retrieving and searching text.
She pressed the desideratum of going beyond Boolean searches and performing
more sophisticated searching, which the insertion of more markup in the text
would facilitate.  Thinking about electronic texts as opposed to images means
considering material that will never appear in print form, or print will not
be its primary form, that is, material which only appears in electronic form.
HOCKEY alluded to the history and the need for markup and tagging and
electronic text, which was developed through the use of computers in the
humanities; as MICHELSON had observed, Father Busa had started in 1949
to prepare the first-ever text on the computer.

HOCKEY remarked several large projects, particularly in Europe, for the
compilation of dictionaries, language studies, and language analysis, in
which people have built up archives of text and have begun to recognize
the need for an encoding format that will be reusable and multifunctional,
that can be used not just to print the text, which may be assumed to be a
byproduct of what one wants to do, but to structure it inside the computer
so that it can be searched, built into a Hypertext system, etc.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
WEIBEL * OCLC's approach to preparing electronic text:  retroconversion,
keying of texts, more automated ways of developing data * Project ADAPT
and the CORE Project * Intelligent character recognition does not exist *
Advantages of SGML * Data should be free of procedural markup;
descriptive markup strongly advocated * OCLC's interface illustrated *
Storage requirements and costs for putting a lot of information on line *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Stuart WEIBEL, senior research scientist, Online Computer Library Center,
Inc. (OCLC), described OCLC's approach to preparing electronic text.  He
argued that the electronic world into which we are moving must
accommodate not only the future but the past as well, and to some degree
even the present.  Thus, starting out at one end with retroconversion and
keying of texts, one would like to move toward much more automated ways
of developing data.

For example, Project ADAPT had to do with automatically converting
document images into a structured document database with OCR text as
indexing and also a little bit of automatic formatting and tagging of
that text.  The CORE project hosted by Cornell University, Bellcore,
OCLC, the American Chemical Society, and Chemical Abstracts, constitutes
WEIBEL's principal concern at the moment.  This project is an example of
converting text for which one already has a machine-readable version into
a format more suitable for electronic delivery and database searching.
(Since Michael LESK had previously described CORE, WEIBEL would say
little concerning it.)  Borrowing a chemical phrase, de novo synthesis,
WEIBEL cited the Online Journal of Current Clinical Trials as an example
of de novo electronic publishing, that is, a form in which the primary
form of the information is electronic.

Project ADAPT, then, which OCLC completed a couple of years ago and in
fact is about to resume, is a model in which one takes page images either
in paper or microfilm and converts them automatically to a searchable
electronic database, either on-line or local.  The operating assumption
is that accepting some blemishes in the data, especially for
retroconversion of materials, will make it possible to accomplish more.
Not enough money is available to support perfect conversion.

WEIBEL related several steps taken to perform image preprocessing
(processing on the image before performing optical character
recognition), as well as image postprocessing.  He denied the existence
of intelligent character recognition and asserted that what is wanted is
page recognition, which is a long way off.  OCLC has experimented with
merging of multiple optical character recognition systems that will
reduce errors from an unacceptable rate of 5 characters out of every
l,000 to an unacceptable rate of 2 characters out of every l,000, but it
is not good enough.  It will never be perfect.

Concerning the CORE Project, WEIBEL observed that Bellcore is taking the
topography files, extracting the page images, and converting those
topography files to SGML markup.  LESK hands that data off to OCLC, which
builds that data into a Newton database, the same system that underlies
the on-line system in virtually all of the reference products at OCLC.
The long-term goal is to make the systems interoperable so that not just
Bellcore's system and OCLC's system can access this data, but other
systems can as well, and the key to that is the Z39.50 common command
language and the full-text extension.  Z39.50 is fine for MARC records,
but is not enough to do it for full text (that is, make full texts
interoperable).

WEIBEL next outlined the critical role of SGML for a variety of purposes,
for example, as noted by HOCKEY, in the world of extremely large
databases, using highly structured data to perform field searches.
WEIBEL argued that by building the structure of the data in (i.e., the
structure of the data originally on a printed page), it becomes easy to
look at a journal article even if one cannot read the characters and know
where the title or author is, or what the sections of that document would be.
OCLC wants to make that structure explicit in the database, because it will
be important for retrieval purposes.

The second big advantage of SGML is that it gives one the ability to
build structure into the database that can be used for display purposes
without contaminating the data with instructions about how to format
things.  The distinction lies between procedural markup, which tells one
where to put dots on the page, and descriptive markup, which describes
the elements of a document.

WEIBEL believes that there should be no procedural markup in the data at
all, that the data should be completely unsullied by information about
italics or boldness.  That should be left up to the display device,
whether that display device is a page printer or a screen display device.
By keeping one's database free of that kind of contamination, one can
make decisions down the road, for example, reorganize the data in ways
that are not cramped by built-in notions of what should be italic and
what should be bold.  WEIBEL strongly advocated descriptive markup.  As
an example, he illustrated the index structure in the CORE data.  With
subsequent illustrated examples of markup, WEIBEL acknowledged the common
complaint that SGML is hard to read in its native form, although markup
decreases considerably once one gets into the body.  Without the markup,
however, one would not have the structure in the data.  One can pass
markup through a LaTeX processor and convert it relatively easily to a
printed version of the document.

WEIBEL next illustrated an extremely cluttered screen dump of OCLC's
system, in order to show as much as possible the inherent capability on
the screen.  (He noted parenthetically that he had become a supporter of
X-Windows as a result of the progress of the CORE Project.)  WEIBEL also
illustrated the two major parts of the interface:  l) a control box that
allows one to generate lists of items, which resembles a small table of
contents based on key words one wishes to search, and 2) a document
viewer, which is a separate process in and of itself.  He demonstrated
how to follow links through the electronic database simply by selecting
the appropriate button and bringing them up.  He also noted problems that
remain to be accommodated in the interface (e.g., as pointed out by LESK,
what happens when users do not click on the icon for the figure).

Given the constraints of time, WEIBEL omitted a large number of ancillary
items in order to say a few words concerning storage requirements and
what will be required to put a lot of things on line.  Since it is
extremely expensive to reconvert all of this data, especially if it is
just in paper form (and even if it is in electronic form in typesetting
tapes), he advocated building journals electronically from the start.  In
that case, if one only has text graphics and indexing (which is all that
one needs with de novo electronic publishing, because there is no need to
go back and look at bit-maps of pages), one can get 10,000 journals of
full text, or almost 6 million pages per year.  These pages can be put in
approximately 135 gigabytes of storage, which is not all that much,
WEIBEL said.  For twenty years, something less than three terabytes would
be required.  WEIBEL calculated the costs of storing this information as
follows:  If a gigabyte costs approximately $1,000, then a terabyte costs
approximately $1 million to buy in terms of hardware.  One also needs a
building to put it in and a staff like OCLC to handle that information.
So, to support a terabyte, multiply by five, which gives $5 million per
year for a supported terabyte of data.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Tapes saved by ACS are the typography files originally
supporting publication of the journal * Cost of building tagged text into
the database *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the question-and-answer period that followed WEIBEL's
presentation, these clarifications emerged.  The tapes saved by the
American Chemical Society are the typography files that originally
supported the publication of the journal.  Although they are not tagged
in SGML, they are tagged in very fine detail.  Every single sentence is
marked, all the registry numbers, all the publications issues, dates, and
volumes.  No cost figures on tagging material on a per-megabyte basis
were available.  Because ACS's typesetting system runs from tagged text,
there is no extra cost per article.  It was unknown what it costs ACS to
keyboard the tagged text rather than just keyboard the text in the
cheapest process.  In other words, since one intends to publish things
and will need to build tagged text into a typography system in any case,
if one does that in such a way that it can drive not only typography but
an electronic system (which is what ACS intends to do--move to SGML
publishing), the marginal cost is zero.  The marginal cost represents the
cost of building tagged text into the database, which is small.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
SPERBERG-McQUEEN * Distinction between texts and computers * Implications
of recognizing that all representation is encoding * Dealing with
complicated representations of text entails the need for a grammar of
documents * Variety of forms of formal grammars * Text as a bit-mapped
image does not represent a serious attempt to represent text in
electronic form * SGML, the TEI, document-type declarations, and the
reusability and longevity of data * TEI conformance explicitly allows
extension or modification of the TEI tag set * Administrative background
of the TEI * Several design goals for the TEI tag set * An absolutely
fixed requirement of the TEI Guidelines * Challenges the TEI has
attempted to face * Good texts not beyond economic feasibility * The
issue of reproducibility or processability * The issue of mages as
simulacra for the text redux * One's model of text determines what one's
software can do with a text and has economic consequences *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Prior to speaking about SGML and markup, Michael SPERBERG-McQUEEN, editor,
Text Encoding Initiative (TEI), University of Illinois-Chicago, first drew
a distinction between texts and computers:  Texts are abstract cultural
and linguistic objects while computers are complicated physical devices,
he said.  Abstract objects cannot be placed inside physical devices; with
computers one can only represent text and act upon those representations.

The recognition that all representation is encoding, SPERBERG-McQUEEN
argued, leads to the recognition of two things:  1) The topic description
for this session is slightly misleading, because there can be no discussion
of pros and cons of text-coding unless what one means is pros and cons of
working with text with computers.  2) No text can be represented in a
computer without some sort of encoding; images are one way of encoding text,
ASCII is another, SGML yet another.  There is no encoding without some
information loss, that is, there is no perfect reproduction of a text that
allows one to do away with the original.  Thus, the question becomes,
What is the most useful representation of text for a serious work?
This depends on what kind of serious work one is talking about.

The projects demonstrated the previous day all involved highly complex
information and fairly complex manipulation of the textual material.
In order to use that complicated information, one has to calculate it
slowly or manually and store the result.  It needs to be stored, therefore,
as part of one's representation of the text.  Thus, one needs to store the
structure in the text.  To deal with complicated representations of text,
one needs somehow to control the complexity of the representation of a text;
that means one needs a way of finding out whether a document and an
electronic representation of a document is legal or not; and that
means one needs a grammar of documents.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN discussed the variety of forms of formal grammars,
implicit and explicit, as applied to text, and their capabilities.  He
argued that these grammars correspond to different models of text that
different developers have.  For example, one implicit model of the text
is that there is no internal structure, but just one thing after another,
a few characters and then perhaps a start-title command, and then a few
more characters and an end-title command.  SPERBERG-McQUEEN also
distinguished several kinds of text that have a sort of hierarchical
structure that is not very well defined, which, typically, corresponds
to grammars that are not very well defined, as well as hierarchies that
are very well defined (e.g., the Thesaurus Linguae Graecae) and extremely
complicated things such as SGML, which handle strictly hierarchical data
very nicely.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN conceded that one other model not illustrated on his two
displays was the model of text as a bit-mapped image, an image of a page,
and confessed to having been converted to a limited extent by the
Workshop to the view that electronic images constitute a promising,
probably superior alternative to microfilming.  But he was not convinced
that electronic images represent a serious attempt to represent text in
electronic form.  Many of their problems stem from the fact that they are
not direct attempts to represent the text but attempts to represent the
page, thus making them representations of representations.

In this situation of increasingly complicated textual information and the
need to control that complexity in a useful way (which begs the question
of the need for good textual grammars), one has the introduction of SGML.
With SGML, one can develop specific document-type declarations
for specific text types or, as with the TEI, attempts to generate
general document-type declarations that can handle all sorts of text.
The TEI is an attempt to develop formats for text representation that
will ensure the kind of reusability and longevity of data discussed earlier.
It offers a way to stay alive in the state of permanent technological
revolution.

It has been a continuing challenge in the TEI to create document grammars
that do some work in controlling the complexity of the textual object but
also allowing one to represent the real text that one will find.
Fundamental to the notion of the TEI is that TEI conformance allows one
the ability to extend or modify the TEI tag set so that it fits the text
that one is attempting to represent.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN next outlined the administrative background of the TEI.
The TEI is an international project to develop and disseminate guidelines
for the encoding and interchange of machine-readable text.  It is
sponsored by the Association for Computers in the Humanities, the
Association for Computational Linguistics, and the Association for
Literary and Linguistic Computing.  Representatives of numerous other
professional societies sit on its advisory board.  The TEI has a number
of affiliated projects that have provided assistance by testing drafts of
the guidelines.

Among the design goals for the TEI tag set, the scheme first of all must
meet the needs of research, because the TEI came out of the research
community, which did not feel adequately served by existing tag sets.
The tag set must be extensive as well as compatible with existing and
emerging standards.  In 1990, version 1.0 of the Guidelines was released
(SPERBERG-McQUEEN illustrated their contents).

SPERBERG-McQUEEN noted that one problem besetting electronic text has
been the lack of adequate internal or external documentation for many
existing electronic texts.  The TEI guidelines as currently formulated
contain few fixed requirements, but one of them is this:  There must
always be a document header, an in-file SGML tag that provides
1) a bibliographic description of the electronic object one is talking
about (that is, who included it, when, what for, and under which title);
and 2) the copy text from which it was derived, if any.  If there was
no copy text or if the copy text is unknown, then one states as much.
Version 2.0 of the Guidelines was scheduled to be completed in fall 1992
and a revised third version is to be presented to the TEI advisory board
for its endorsement this coming winter.  The TEI itself exists to provide
a markup language, not a marked-up text.

Among the challenges the TEI has attempted to face is the need for a
markup language that will work for existing projects, that is, handle the
level of markup that people are using now to tag only chapter, section,
and paragraph divisions and not much else.  At the same time, such a
language also will be able to scale up gracefully to handle the highly
detailed markup which many people foresee as the future destination of
much electronic text, and which is not the future destination but the
present home of numerous electronic texts in specialized areas.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN dismissed the lowest-common-denominator approach as
unable to support the kind of applications that draw people who have
never been in the public library regularly before, and make them come
back.  He advocated more interesting text and more intelligent text.
Asserting that it is not beyond economic feasibility to have good texts,
SPERBERG-McQUEEN noted that the TEI Guidelines listing 200-odd tags
contains tags that one is expected to enter every time the relevant
textual feature occurs.  It contains all the tags that people need now,
and it is not expected that everyone will tag things in the same way.

The question of how people will tag the text is in large part a function
of their reaction to what SPERBERG-McQUEEN termed the issue of
reproducibility.  What one needs to be able to reproduce are the things
one wants to work with.  Perhaps a more useful concept than that of
reproducibility or recoverability is that of processability, that is,
what can one get from an electronic text without reading it again
in the original.  He illustrated this contention with a page from
Jan Comenius's bilingual Introduction to Latin.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN returned at length to the issue of images as simulacra
for the text, in order to reiterate his belief that in the long run more
than images of pages of particular editions of the text are needed,
because just as second-generation photocopies and second-generation
microfilm degenerate, so second-generation representations tend to
degenerate, and one tends to overstress some relatively trivial aspects
of the text such as its layout on the page, which is not always
significant, despite what the text critics might say, and slight other
pieces of information such as the very important lexical ties between the
English and Latin versions of Comenius's bilingual text, for example.
Moreover, in many crucial respects it is easy to fool oneself concerning
what a scanned image of the text will accomplish.  For example, in order
to study the transmission of texts, information concerning the text
carrier is necessary, which scanned images simply do not always handle.
Further, even the high-quality materials being produced at Cornell use
much of the information that one would need if studying those books as
physical objects.  It is a choice that has been made.  It is an arguably
justifiable choice, but one does not know what color those pen strokes in
the margin are or whether there was a stain on the page, because it has
been filtered out.  One does not know whether there were rips in the page
because they do not show up, and on a couple of the marginal marks one
loses half of the mark because the pen is very light and the scanner
failed to pick it up, and so what is clearly a checkmark in the margin of
the original becomes a little scoop in the margin of the facsimile.
Standard problems for facsimile editions, not new to electronics, but
also true of light-lens photography, and are remarked here because it is
important that we not fool ourselves that even if we produce a very nice
image of this page with good contrast, we are not replacing the
manuscript any more than microfilm has replaced the manuscript.

The TEI comes from the research community, where its first allegiance
lies, but it is not just an academic exercise.  It has relevance far
beyond those who spend all of their time studying text, because one's
model of text determines what one's software can do with a text.  Good
models lead to good software.  Bad models lead to bad software.  That has
economic consequences, and it is these economic consequences that have
led the European Community to help support the TEI, and that will lead,
SPERBERG-McQUEEN hoped, some software vendors to realize that if they
provide software with a better model of the text they can make a killing.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Implications of different DTDs and tag sets * ODA versus SGML *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the discussion that followed, several additional points were made.
Neither AAP (i.e., Association of American Publishers) nor CALS (i.e.,
Computer-aided Acquisition and Logistics Support) has a document-type
definition for ancient Greek drama, although the TEI will be able to
handle that.  Given this state of affairs and assuming that the
technical-journal producers and the commercial vendors decide to use the
other two types, then an institution like the Library of Congress, which
might receive all of their publications, would have to be able to handle
three different types of document definitions and tag sets and be able to
distinguish among them.

Office Document Architecture (ODA) has some advantages that flow from its
tight focus on office documents and clear directions for implementation.
Much of the ODA standard is easier to read and clearer at first reading
than the SGML standard, which is extremely general.  What that means is
that if one wants to use graphics in TIFF and ODA, one is stuck, because
ODA defines graphics formats while TIFF does not, whereas SGML says the
world is not waiting for this work group to create another graphics format.
What is needed is an ability to use whatever graphics format one wants.

The TEI provides a socket that allows one to connect the SGML document to
the graphics.  The notation that the graphics are in is clearly a choice
that one needs to make based on her or his environment, and that is one
advantage.  SGML is less megalomaniacal in attempting to define formats
for all kinds of information, though more megalomaniacal in attempting to
cover all sorts of documents.  The other advantage is that the model of
text represented by SGML is simply an order of magnitude richer and more
flexible than the model of text offered by ODA.  Both offer hierarchical
structures, but SGML recognizes that the hierarchical model of the text
that one is looking at may not have been in the minds of the designers,
whereas ODA does not.

ODA is not really aiming for the kind of document that the TEI wants to
encompass.  The TEI can handle the kind of material ODA has, as well as a
significantly broader range of material.  ODA seems to be very much
focused on office documents, which is what it started out being called--
office document architecture.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
CALALUCA * Text-encoding from a publisher's perspective *
Responsibilities of a publisher * Reproduction of Migne's Latin series
whole and complete with SGML tags based on perceived need and expected
use * Particular decisions arising from the general decision to produce
and publish PLD *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

The final speaker in this session, Eric CALALUCA, vice president,
Chadwyck-Healey, Inc., spoke from the perspective of a publisher re
text-encoding, rather than as one qualified to discuss methods of
encoding data, and observed that the presenters sitting in the room,
whether they had chosen to or not, were acting as publishers:  making
choices, gathering data, gathering information, and making assessments.
CALALUCA offered the hard-won conviction that in publishing very large
text files (such as PLD), one cannot avoid making personal judgments of
appropriateness and structure.

In CALALUCA's view, encoding decisions stem from prior judgments.  Two
notions have become axioms for him in the consideration of future sources
for electronic publication:  1) electronic text publishing is as personal
as any other kind of publishing, and questions of if and how to encode
the data are simply a consequence of that prior decision;  2) all
personal decisions are open to criticism, which is unavoidable.

CALALUCA rehearsed his role as a publisher or, better, as an intermediary
between what is viewed as a sound idea and the people who would make use
of it.  Finding the specialist to advise in this process is the core of
that function.  The publisher must monitor and hug the fine line between
giving users what they want and suggesting what they might need.  One
responsibility of a publisher is to represent the desires of scholars and
research librarians as opposed to bullheadedly forcing them into areas
they would not choose to enter.

CALALUCA likened the questions being raised today about data structure
and standards to the decisions faced by the Abbe Migne himself during
production of the Patrologia series in the mid-nineteenth century.
Chadwyck-Healey's decision to reproduce Migne's Latin series whole and
complete with SGML tags was also based upon a perceived need and an
expected use.  In the same way that Migne's work came to be far more than
a simple handbook for clerics, PLD is already far more than a database
for theologians.  It is a bedrock source for the study of Western
civilization, CALALUCA asserted.

In regard to the decision to produce and publish PLD, the editorial board
offered direct judgments on the question of appropriateness of these
texts for conversion, their encoding and their distribution, and
concluded that the best possible project was one that avoided overt
intrusions or exclusions in so important a resource.  Thus, the general
decision to transmit the original collection as clearly as possible with
the widest possible avenues for use led to other decisions:  1) To encode
the data or not, SGML or not, TEI or not.  Again, the expected user
community asserted the need for normative tagging structures of important
humanities texts, and the TEI seemed the most appropriate structure for
that purpose.  Research librarians, who are trained to view the larger
impact of electronic text sources on 80 or 90 or 100 doctoral
disciplines, loudly approved the decision to include tagging.  They see
what is coming better than the specialist who is completely focused on
one edition of Ambrose's De Anima, and they also understand that the
potential uses exceed present expectations.  2) What will be tagged and
what will not.  Once again, the board realized that one must tag the
obvious.  But in no way should one attempt to identify through encoding
schemes every single discrete area of a text that might someday be
searched.  That was another decision.  Searching by a column number, an
author, a word, a volume, permitting combination searches, and tagging
notations seemed logical choices as core elements.  3) How does one make
the data available?  Tieing it to a CD-ROM edition creates limitations,
but a magnetic tape file that is very large, is accompanied by the
encoding specifications, and that allows one to make local modifications
also allows one to incorporate any changes one may desire within the
bounds of private research, though exporting tag files from a CD-ROM
could serve just as well.  Since no one on the board could possibly
anticipate each and every way in which a scholar might choose to mine
this data bank, it was decided to satisfy the basics and make some
provisions for what might come.  4) Not to encode the database would rob
it of the interchangeability and portability these important texts should
accommodate.  For CALALUCA, the extensive options presented by full-text
searching require care in text selection and strongly support encoding of
data to facilitate the widest possible search strategies.  Better
software can always be created, but summoning the resources, the people,
and the energy to reconvert the text is another matter.

PLD is being encoded, captured, and distributed, because to
Chadwyck-Healey and the board it offers the widest possible array of
future research applications that can be seen today.  CALALUCA concluded
by urging the encoding of all important text sources in whatever way
seems most appropriate and durable at the time, without blanching at the
thought that one's work may require emendation in the future.  (Thus,
Chadwyck-Healey produced a very large humanities text database before the
final release of the TEI Guidelines.)

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Creating texts with markup advocated * Trends in encoding *
The TEI and the issue of interchangeability of standards * A
misconception concerning the TEI * Implications for an institution like
LC in the event that a multiplicity of DTDs develops * Producing images
as a first step towards possible conversion to full text through
character recognition * The AAP tag sets as a common starting point and
the need for caution *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

HOCKEY prefaced the discussion that followed with several comments in
favor of creating texts with markup and on trends in encoding.  In the
future, when many more texts are available for on-line searching, real
problems in finding what is wanted will develop, if one is faced with
millions of words of data.  It therefore becomes important to consider
putting markup in texts to help searchers home in on the actual things
they wish to retrieve.  Various approaches to refining retrieval methods
toward this end include building on a computer version of a dictionary
and letting the computer look up words in it to obtain more information
about the semantic structure or semantic field of a word, its grammatical
structure, and syntactic structure.

HOCKEY commented on the present keen interest in the encoding world
in creating:  1) machine-readable versions of dictionaries that can be
initially tagged in SGML, which gives a structure to the dictionary entry;
these entries can then be converted into a more rigid or otherwise
different database structure inside the computer, which can be treated as
a dynamic tool for searching mechanisms; 2) large bodies of text to study
the language.  In order to incorporate more sophisticated mechanisms,
more about how words behave needs to be known, which can be learned in
part from information in dictionaries.  However, the last ten years have
seen much interest in studying the structure of printed dictionaries
converted into computer-readable form.  The information one derives about
many words from those is only partial, one or two definitions of the
common or the usual meaning of a word, and then numerous definitions of
unusual usages.  If the computer is using a dictionary to help retrieve
words in a text, it needs much more information about the common usages,
because those are the ones that occur over and over again.  Hence the
current interest in developing large bodies of text in computer-readable
form in order to study the language.  Several projects are engaged in
compiling, for example, 100 million words. HOCKEY described one with
which she was associated briefly at Oxford University involving
compilation of 100 million words of British English:  about 10 percent of
that will contain detailed linguistic tagging encoded in SGML; it will
have word class taggings, with words identified as nouns, verbs,
adjectives, or other parts of speech.  This tagging can then be used by
programs which will begin to learn a bit more about the structure of the
language, and then, can go to tag more text.

HOCKEY said that the more that is tagged accurately, the more one can
refine the tagging process and thus the bigger body of text one can build
up with linguistic tagging incorporated into it.  Hence, the more tagging
or annotation there is in the text, the more one may begin to learn about
language and the more it will help accomplish more intelligent OCR.  She
recommended the development of software tools that will help one begin to
understand more about a text, which can then be applied to scanning
images of that text in that format and to using more intelligence to help
one interpret or understand the text.

HOCKEY posited the need to think about common methods of text-encoding
for a long time to come, because building these large bodies of text is
extremely expensive and will only be done once.

In the more general discussion on approaches to encoding that followed,
these points were made:

BESSER identified the underlying problem with standards that all have to
struggle with in adopting a standard, namely, the tension between a very
highly defined standard that is very interchangeable but does not work
for everyone because something is lacking, and a standard that is less
defined, more open, more adaptable, but less interchangeable.  Contending
that the way in which people use SGML is not sufficiently defined, BESSER
wondered 1) if people resist the TEI because they think it is too defined
in certain things they do not fit into, and 2) how progress with
interchangeability can be made without frightening people away.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN replied that the published drafts of the TEI had met
with surprisingly little objection on the grounds that they do not allow
one to handle X or Y or Z.  Particular concerns of the affiliated
projects have led, in practice, to discussions of how extensions are to
be made; the primary concern of any project has to be how it can be
represented locally, thus making interchange secondary.  The TEI has
received much criticism based on the notion that everything in it is
required or even recommended, which, as it happens, is a misconception
from the beginning,   because none of it is required and very little is
actually actively recommended for all cases, except that one document
one's source.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN agreed with BESSER about this trade-off:  all the
projects in a set of twenty TEI-conformant projects will not necessarily
tag the material in the same way.  One result of the TEI will be that the
easiest problems will be solved--those dealing with the external form of
the information; but the problem that is hardest in interchange is that
one is not encoding what another wants, and vice versa.  Thus, after
the adoption of a common notation, the differences in the underlying
conceptions of what is interesting about texts become more visible.
The success of a standard like the TEI will lie in the ability of
the recipient of interchanged texts to use some of what it contains
and to add the information that was not encoded that one wants, in a
layered way, so that texts can be gradually enriched and one does not
have to put in everything all at once.  Hence, having a well-behaved
markup scheme is important.

STEVENS followed up on the paradoxical analogy that BESSER alluded to in
the example of the MARC records, namely, the formats that are the same
except that they are different.  STEVENS drew a parallel between
document-type definitions and MARC records for books and serials and maps,
where one has a tagging structure and there is a text-interchange.
STEVENS opined that the producers of the information will set the terms
for the standard (i.e., develop document-type definitions for the users
of their products), creating a situation that will be problematical for
an institution like the Library of Congress, which will have to deal with
the DTDs in the event that a multiplicity of them develops.  Thus,
numerous people are seeking a standard but cannot find the tag set that
will be acceptable to them and their clients.  SPERBERG-McQUEEN agreed
with this view, and said that the situation was in a way worse:  attempting
to unify arbitrary DTDs resembled attempting to unify a MARC record with a
bibliographic record done according to the Prussian instructions.
According to STEVENS, this situation occurred very early in the process.

WATERS recalled from early discussions on Project Open Book the concern
of many people that merely by producing images, POB was not really
enhancing intellectual access to the material.  Nevertheless, not wishing
to overemphasize the opposition between imaging and full text, WATERS
stated that POB views getting the images as a first step toward possibly
converting to full text through character recognition, if the technology
is appropriate.  WATERS also emphasized that encoding is involved even
with a set of images.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN agreed with WATERS that one can create an SGML document
consisting wholly of images.  At first sight, organizing graphic images
with an SGML document may not seem to offer great advantages, but the
advantages of the scheme WATERS described would be precisely that
ability to move into something that is more of a multimedia document:
a combination of transcribed text and page images.  WEIBEL concurred in
this judgment, offering evidence from Project ADAPT, where a page is
divided into text elements and graphic elements, and in fact the text
elements are organized by columns and lines.  These lines may be used as
the basis for distributing documents in a network environment.  As one
develops software intelligent enough to recognize what those elements
are, it makes sense to apply SGML to an image initially, that may, in
fact, ultimately become more and more text, either through OCR or edited
OCR or even just through keying.  For WATERS, the labor of composing the
document and saying this set of documents or this set of images belongs
to this document constitutes a significant investment.

WEIBEL also made the point that the AAP tag sets, while not excessively
prescriptive, offer a common starting point; they do not define the
structure of the documents, though.  They have some recommendations about
DTDs one could use as examples, but they do just suggest tag sets.   For
example, the CORE project attempts to use the AAP markup as much as
possible, but there are clearly areas where structure must be added.
That in no way contradicts the use of AAP tag sets.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN noted that the TEI prepared a long working paper early
on about the AAP tag set and what it lacked that the TEI thought it
needed, and a fairly long critique of the naming conventions, which has
led to a very different style of naming in the TEI.  He stressed the
importance of the opposition between prescriptive markup, the kind that a
publisher or anybody can do when producing documents de novo, and
descriptive markup, in which one has to take what the text carrier
provides.  In these particular tag sets it is easy to overemphasize this
opposition, because the AAP tag set is extremely flexible.  Even if one
just used the DTDs, they allow almost anything to appear almost anywhere.

                                 ******

SESSION VI.  COPYRIGHT ISSUES

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
PETERS * Several cautions concerning copyright in an electronic
environment * Review of copyright law in the United States * The notion
of the public good and the desirability of incentives to promote it *
What copyright protects * Works not protected by copyright * The rights
of copyright holders * Publishers' concerns in today's electronic
environment * Compulsory licenses * The price of copyright in a digital
medium and the need for cooperation * Additional clarifications *  Rough
justice oftentimes the outcome in numerous copyright matters * Copyright
in an electronic society * Copyright law always only sets up the
boundaries; anything can be changed by contract *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Marybeth PETERS, policy planning adviser to the Register of Copyrights,
Library of Congress,   made several general comments and then opened the
floor to discussion of subjects of interest to the audience.

Having attended several sessions in an effort to gain a sense of what
people did and where copyright would affect their lives, PETERS expressed
the following cautions:

     * If one takes and converts materials and puts them in new forms,
     then, from a copyright point of view, one is creating something and
     will receive some rights.

     * However, if what one is converting already exists, a question
     immediately arises about the status of the materials in question.

     * Putting something in the public domain in the United States offers
     some freedom from anxiety, but distributing it throughout the world
     on a network is another matter, even if one has put it in the public
     domain in the United States.  Re foreign laws, very frequently a
     work can be in the public domain in the United States but protected
     in other countries.  Thus, one must consider all of the places a
     work may reach, lest one unwittingly become liable to being faced
     with a suit for copyright infringement, or at least a letter
     demanding discussion of what one is doing.

PETERS reviewed copyright law in the United States.  The U.S.
Constitution effectively states that Congress has the power to enact
copyright laws for two purposes:  1) to encourage the creation and
dissemination of intellectual works for the good of society as a whole;
and, significantly, 2) to give creators and those who package and
disseminate materials the economic rewards that are due them.

Congress strives to strike a balance, which at times can become an
emotional issue.  The United States has never accepted the notion of the
natural right of an author so much as it has accepted the notion of the
public good and the desirability of incentives to promote it.  This state
of affairs, however, has created strains on the international level and
is the reason for several of the differences in the laws that we have.
Today the United States protects almost every kind of work that can be
called an expression of an author.  The standard for gaining copyright
protection is simply originality.  This is a low standard and means that
a work is not copied from something else, as well as shows a certain
minimal amount of authorship.  One can also acquire copyright protection
for making a new version of preexisting material, provided it manifests
some spark of creativity.

However, copyright does not protect ideas, methods, systems--only the way
that one expresses those things.  Nor does copyright protect anything
that is mechanical, anything that does not involve choice, or criteria
concerning whether or not one should do a thing.  For example, the
results of a process called declicking, in which one mechanically removes
impure sounds from old recordings, are not copyrightable.  On the other
hand, the choice to record a song digitally and to increase the sound of
violins or to bring up the tympani constitutes the results of conversion
that are copyrightable.  Moreover, if a work is protected by copyright in
the United States, one generally needs the permission of the copyright
owner to convert it.  Normally, who will own the new--that is, converted-
-material is a matter of contract.  In the absence of a contract, the
person who creates the new material is the author and owner.  But people
do not generally think about the copyright implications until after the
fact.  PETERS stressed the need when dealing with copyrighted works to
think about copyright in advance.  One's bargaining power is much greater
up front than it is down the road.

PETERS next discussed works not protected by copyright, for example, any
work done by a federal employee as part of his or her official duties is
in the public domain in the United States.  The issue is not wholly free
of doubt concerning whether or not the work is in the public domain
outside the United States.  Other materials in the public domain include:
any works published more than seventy-five years ago, and any work
published in the United States more than twenty-eight years ago, whose
copyright was not renewed.  In talking about the new technology and
putting material in a digital form to send all over the world, PETERS
cautioned, one must keep in mind that while the rights may not be an
issue in the United States, they may be in different parts of the world,
where most countries previously employed a copyright term of the life of
the author plus fifty years.

PETERS next reviewed the economics of copyright holding.  Simply,
economic rights are the rights to control the reproduction of a work in
any form.  They belong to the author, or in the case of a work made for
hire, the employer.  The second right, which is critical to conversion,
is the right to change a work.  The right to make new versions is perhaps
one of the most significant rights of authors, particularly in an
electronic world.  The third right is the right to publish the work and
the right to disseminate it, something that everyone who deals in an
electronic medium needs to know.  The basic rule is if a copy is sold,
all rights of distribution are extinguished with the sale of that copy.
The key is that it must be sold.  A number of companies overcome this
obstacle by leasing or renting their product.  These companies argue that
if the material is rented or leased and not sold, they control the uses
of a work.  The fourth right, and one very important in a digital world,
is a right of public performance, which means the right to show the work
sequentially.  For example, copyright owners control the showing of a
CD-ROM product in a public place such as a public library.  The reverse
side of public performance is something called the right of public
display.  Moral rights also exist, which at the federal level apply only
to very limited visual works of art, but in theory may apply under
contract and other principles.  Moral rights may include the right of an
author to have his or her name on a work, the right of attribution, and
the right to object to distortion or mutilation--the right of integrity.

The way copyright law is worded gives much latitude to activities such as
preservation; to use of material for scholarly and research purposes when
the user does not make multiple copies; and to the generation of
facsimile copies of unpublished works by libraries for themselves and
other libraries.  But the law does not allow anyone to become the
distributor of the product for the entire world.  In today's electronic
environment, publishers are extremely concerned that the entire world is
networked and can obtain the information desired from a single copy in a
single library.  Hence, if there is to be only one sale, which publishers
may choose to live with, they will obtain their money in other ways, for
example, from access and use.  Hence, the development of site licenses
and other kinds of agreements to cover what publishers believe they
should be compensated for.  Any solution that the United States takes
today has to consider the international arena.

Noting that the United States is a member of the Berne Convention and
subscribes to its provisions, PETERS described the permissions process.
She also defined compulsory licenses.  A compulsory license, of which the
United States has had a few, builds into the law the right to use a work
subject to certain terms and conditions.  In the international arena,
however, the ability to use compulsory licenses is extremely limited.
Thus, clearinghouses and other collectives comprise one option that has
succeeded in providing for use of a work.  Often overlooked when one
begins to use copyrighted material and put products together is how
expensive the permissions process and managing it is.  According to
PETERS, the price of copyright in a digital medium, whatever solution is
worked out, will include managing and assembling the database.  She
strongly recommended that publishers and librarians or people with
various backgrounds cooperate to work out administratively feasible
systems, in order to produce better results.

In the lengthy question-and-answer period that followed PETERS's
presentation, the following points emerged:

     * The Copyright Office maintains that anything mechanical and
     totally exhaustive probably is not protected.  In the event that
     what an individual did in developing potentially copyrightable
     material is not understood, the Copyright Office will ask about the
     creative choices the applicant chose to make or not to make.  As a
     practical matter, if one believes she or he has made enough of those
     choices, that person has a right to assert a copyright and someone
     else must assert that the work is not copyrightable.  The more
     mechanical, the more automatic, a thing is, the less likely it is to
     be copyrightable.

     * Nearly all photographs are deemed to be copyrightable, but no one
     worries about them much, because everyone is free to take the same
     image.  Thus, a photographic copyright represents what is called a
     "thin" copyright.  The photograph itself must be duplicated, in
     order for copyright to be violated.

     * The Copyright Office takes the position that X-rays are not
     copyrightable because they are mechanical.  It  can be argued
     whether or not image enhancement in scanning can be protected.  One
     must exercise care with material created with public funds and
     generally in the public domain.  An article written by a federal
     employee, if written as part of official duties, is not
     copyrightable.  However, control over a scientific article written
     by a National Institutes of Health grantee (i.e., someone who
     receives money from the U.S. government), depends on NIH policy.  If
     the government agency has no policy (and that policy can be
     contained in its regulations, the contract, or the grant), the
     author retains copyright.  If a provision of the contract, grant, or
     regulation states that there will be no copyright, then it does not
     exist.  When a work is created, copyright automatically comes into
     existence unless something exists that says it does not.

     * An enhanced electronic copy of a print copy of an older reference
     work in the public domain that does not contain copyrightable new
     material is a purely mechanical rendition of the original work, and
     is not copyrightable.

     * Usually, when a work enters the public domain, nothing can remove
     it.  For example, Congress recently passed into law the concept of
     automatic renewal, which means that copyright on any work published
     between l964 and l978 does not have to be renewed in order to
     receive a seventy-five-year term.  But any work not renewed before
     1964 is in the public domain.

     * Concerning whether or not the United States keeps track of when
     authors die, nothing was ever done, nor is anything being done at
     the moment by the Copyright Office.

     * Software that drives a mechanical process is itself copyrightable.
     If one changes platforms, the software itself has a copyright.  The
     World Intellectual Property Organization will hold a symposium 28
     March through 2 April l993, at Harvard University, on digital
     technology, and will study this entire issue.  If one purchases a
     computer software package, such as MacPaint, and creates something
     new, one receives protection only for that which has been added.

PETERS added that often in copyright matters, rough justice is the
outcome, for example, in collective licensing, ASCAP (i.e., American
Society of Composers, Authors, and Publishers), and BMI (i.e., Broadcast
Music, Inc.), where it may seem that the big guys receive more than their
due.  Of course, people ought not to copy a creative product without
paying for it; there should be some compensation.  But the truth of the
world, and it is not a great truth, is that the big guy gets played on
the radio more frequently than the little guy, who has to do much more
until he becomes a big guy.  That is true of every author, every
composer, everyone, and, unfortunately, is part of life.

Copyright always originates with the author, except in cases of works
made for hire.  (Most software falls into this category.)  When an author
sends his article to a journal, he has not relinquished copyright, though
he retains the right to relinquish it.  The author receives absolutely
everything.  The less prominent the author, the more leverage the
publisher will have in contract negotiations.  In order to transfer the
rights, the author must sign an agreement giving them away.

In an electronic society, it is important to be able to license a writer
and work out deals.  With regard to use of a work, it usually is much
easier when a publisher holds the rights.  In an electronic era, a real
problem arises when one is digitizing and making information available.
PETERS referred again to electronic licensing clearinghouses.  Copyright
ought to remain with the author, but as one moves forward globally in the
electronic arena, a middleman who can handle the various rights becomes
increasingly necessary.

The notion of copyright law is that it resides with the individual, but
in an on-line environment, where a work can be adapted and tinkered with
by many individuals, there is concern.  If changes are authorized and
there is no agreement to the contrary, the person who changes a work owns
the changes.  To put it another way, the person who acquires permission
to change a work technically will become the author and the owner, unless
some agreement to the contrary has been made.  It is typical for the
original publisher to try to control all of the versions and all of the
uses.  Copyright law always only sets up the boundaries.  Anything can be
changed by contract.

                                 ******

SESSION VII.  CONCLUSION

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
GENERAL DISCUSSION * Two questions for discussion * Different emphases in
the Workshop * Bringing the text and image partisans together *
Desiderata in planning the long-term development of something * Questions
surrounding the issue of electronic deposit * Discussion of electronic
deposit as an allusion to the issue of standards * Need for a directory
of preservation projects in digital form and for access to their
digitized files * CETH's catalogue of machine-readable texts in the
humanities * What constitutes a publication in the electronic world? *
Need for LC to deal with the concept of on-line publishing * LC's Network
Development Office  exploring the limits of MARC as a standard in terms
of handling electronic information * Magnitude of the problem and the
need for distributed responsibility in order to maintain and store
electronic information * Workshop participants to be viewed as a starting
point * Development of a network version of AM urged * A step toward AM's
construction of some sort of apparatus for network access * A delicate
and agonizing policy question for LC * Re the issue of electronic
deposit, LC urged to initiate a catalytic process in terms of distributed
responsibility * Suggestions for cooperative ventures * Commercial
publishers' fears * Strategic questions for getting the image and text
people to think through long-term cooperation * Clarification of the
driving force behind both the Perseus and the Cornell Xerox projects *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

In his role as moderator of the concluding session, GIFFORD raised two
questions he believed would benefit from discussion:  1) Are there enough
commonalities among those of us that have been here for two days so that
we can see courses of action that should be taken in the future?  And, if
so, what are they and who might take them?  2) Partly derivative from
that, but obviously very dangerous to LC as host, do you see a role for
the Library of Congress in all this?  Of course, the Library of Congress
holds a rather special status in a number of these matters, because it is
not perceived as a player with an economic stake in them, but are there
roles that LC can play that can help advance us toward where we are heading?

Describing himself as an uninformed observer of the technicalities of the
last two days, GIFFORD detected three different emphases in the Workshop:
1) people who are very deeply committed to text; 2) people who are almost
passionate about images; and 3) a few people who are very committed to
what happens to the networks.  In other words, the new networking
dimension, the accessibility of the processability, the portability of
all this across the networks.  How do we pull those three together?

Adding a question that reflected HOCKEY's comment that this was the
fourth workshop she had attended in the previous thirty days, FLEISCHHAUER
wondered to what extent this meeting had reinvented the wheel, or if it
had contributed anything in the way of bringing together a different group
of people from those who normally appear on the workshop circuit.

HOCKEY confessed to being struck at this meeting and the one the
Electronic Pierce Consortium organized the previous week that this was a
coming together of people working on texts and not images.  Attempting to
bring the two together is something we ought to be thinking about for the
future:  How one can think about working with image material to begin
with, but structuring it and digitizing it in such a way that at a later
stage it can be interpreted into text, and find a common way of building
text and images together so that they can be used jointly in the future,
with the network support to begin there because that is how people will
want to access it.

In planning the long-term development of something, which is what is
being done in electronic text, HOCKEY stressed the importance not only
of discussing the technical aspects of how one does it but particularly
of thinking about what the people who use the stuff will want to do.
But conversely, there are numerous things that people start to do with
electronic text or material that nobody ever thought of in the beginning.

LESK, in response to the question concerning the role of the Library of
Congress, remarked the often suggested desideratum of having electronic
deposit:  Since everything is now computer-typeset, an entire decade of
material that was machine-readable exists, but the publishers frequently
did not save it; has LC taken any action to have its copyright deposit
operation start collecting these machine-readable versions?  In the
absence of PETERS, GIFFORD replied that the question was being
actively considered but that that was only one dimension of the problem.
Another dimension is the whole question of the integrity of the original
electronic document.  It becomes highly important in science to prove
authorship.  How will that be done?

ERWAY explained that, under the old policy, to make a claim for a
copyright for works that were published in electronic form, including
software, one had to submit a paper copy of the first and last twenty
pages of code--something that represented the work but did not include
the entire work itself and had little value to anyone.  As a temporary
measure, LC has claimed the right to demand electronic versions of
electronic publications.  This measure entails a proactive role for the
Library to say that it wants a particular electronic version.  Publishers
then have perhaps a year to submit it.  But the real problem for LC is
what to do with all this material in all these different formats.  Will
the Library mount it?  How will it give people access to it?  How does LC
keep track of the appropriate computers, software, and media?  The situation
is so hard to control, ERWAY said, that it makes sense for each publishing
house to maintain its own archive.  But LC cannot enforce that either.

GIFFORD acknowledged LESK's suggestion that establishing a priority
offered the solution, albeit a fairly complicated one.  But who maintains
that register?, he asked.  GRABER noted that LC does attempt to collect a
Macintosh version and the IBM-compatible version of software.  It does
not collect other versions.  But while true for software, BYRUM observed,
this reply does not speak to materials, that is, all the materials that
were published that were on somebody's microcomputer or driver tapes
at a publishing office across the country.  LC does well to acquire
specific machine-readable products selectively that were intended to be
machine-readable.  Materials that were in machine-readable form at one time,
BYRUM said, would be beyond LC's capability at the moment, insofar as
attempting to acquire, organize, and preserve them are concerned--and
preservation would be the most important consideration.  In this
connection, GIFFORD reiterated the need to work out some sense of
distributive responsibility for a number of these issues, which
inevitably will require significant cooperation and discussion.
Nobody can do it all.

LESK suggested that some publishers may look with favor on LC beginning
to serve as a depository of tapes in an electronic manuscript standard.
Publishers may view this as a service that they did not have to perform
and they might send in tapes.  However, SPERBERG-McQUEEN countered,
although publishers have had equivalent services available to them for a
long time, the electronic text archive has never turned away or been
flooded with tapes and is forever sending feedback to the depositor.
Some publishers do send in tapes.

ANDRE viewed this discussion as an allusion to the issue of standards.
She recommended that the AAP standard and the TEI, which has already been
somewhat harmonized internationally and which also shares several
compatibilities with the AAP, be harmonized to ensure sufficient
compatibility in the software.  She drew the line at saying LC ought to
be the locus or forum for such harmonization.

Taking the group in a slightly different direction, but one where at
least in the near term LC might play a helpful role, LYNCH remarked the
plans of a number of projects to carry out preservation by creating
digital images that will end up in on-line or near-line storage at some
institution.   Presumably, LC will link this material somehow to its
on-line catalog in most cases.  Thus, it is in a digital form.  LYNCH had
the impression that many of these institutions would be willing to make
those files accessible to other people outside the institution, provided
that there is no copyright problem.  This desideratum will require
propagating the knowledge that those digitized files exist, so that they
can end up in other on-line catalogs.  Although uncertain about the
mechanism for achieving this result, LYNCH said that it warranted
scrutiny because it seemed to be connected to some of the basic issues of
cataloging and distribution of records.  It would be  foolish, given the
amount of work that all of us have to do and our meager resources, to
discover multiple institutions digitizing the same work.  Re microforms,
LYNCH said, we are in pretty good shape.

BATTIN called this a big problem and noted that the Cornell people (who
had already departed) were working on it.  At issue from the beginning
was to learn how to catalog that information into RLIN and then into
OCLC, so that it would be accessible.  That issue remains to be resolved.
LYNCH rejoined that putting it into OCLC or RLIN was helpful insofar as
somebody who is thinking of performing preservation activity on that work
could learn about it.  It is not necessarily helpful for institutions to
make that available.  BATTIN opined that the idea was that it not only be
for preservation purposes but for the convenience of people looking for
this material.  She endorsed LYNCH's dictum that duplication of this
effort was to be avoided by every means.

HOCKEY informed the Workshop about one major current activity of CETH,
namely a catalogue of machine-readable texts in the humanities.  Held on
RLIN at present, the catalogue has been concentrated on ASCII as opposed
to digitized images of text.  She is exploring ways to improve the
catalogue and make it more widely available, and welcomed suggestions
about these concerns.  CETH owns the records, which are not just
restricted to RLIN, and can distribute them however it wishes.

Taking up LESK's earlier question, BATTIN inquired whether LC, since it
is accepting electronic files and designing a mechanism for dealing with
that rather than putting books on shelves, would become responsible for
the National Copyright Depository of Electronic Materials.  Of course
that could not be accomplished overnight, but it would be something LC
could plan for.  GIFFORD acknowledged that much thought was being devoted
to that set of problems and returned the discussion to the issue raised
by LYNCH--whether or not putting the kind of records that both BATTIN and
HOCKEY have been talking about in RLIN is not a satisfactory solution.
It seemed to him that RLIN answered LYNCH's original point concerning
some kind of directory for these kinds of materials.  In a situation
where somebody is attempting to decide whether or not to scan this or
film that or to learn whether or not someone has already done so, LYNCH
suggested, RLIN is helpful, but it is not helpful in the case of a local,
on-line catalogue.  Further, one would like to have her or his system be
aware that that exists in digital form, so that one can present it to a
patron, even though one did not digitize it, if it is out of copyright.
The only way to make those linkages would be to perform a tremendous
amount of real-time look-up, which would be awkward at best, or
periodically to yank the whole file from RLIN and match it against one's
own stuff, which is a nuisance.

But where, ERWAY inquired, does one stop including things that are
available with Internet, for instance, in one's local catalogue?
It almost seems that that is LC's means to acquire access to them.
That represents LC's new form of library loan.  Perhaps LC's new on-line
catalogue is an amalgamation of all these catalogues on line.  LYNCH
conceded that perhaps that was true in the very long term, but was not
applicable to scanning in the short term.  In his view, the totals cited
by Yale, 10,000 books over perhaps a four-year period, and 1,000-1,500
books from Cornell, were not big numbers, while searching all over
creation for relatively rare occurrences will prove to be less efficient.
As GIFFORD wondered if this would not be a separable file on RLIN and
could be requested from them, BATTIN interjected that it was easily
accessible to an institution.  SEVERTSON pointed out that that file, cum
enhancements, was available with reference information on CD-ROM, which
makes it a little more available.

In HOCKEY's view, the real question facing the Workshop is what to put in
this catalogue, because that raises the question of what constitutes a
publication in the electronic world.  (WEIBEL interjected that Eric Joule
in OCLC's Office of Research is also wrestling with this particular
problem, while GIFFORD thought it sounded fairly generic.)  HOCKEY
contended that a majority of texts in the humanities are in the hands
of either a small number of large research institutions or individuals
and are not generally available for anyone else to access at all.
She wondered if these texts ought to be catalogued.

After argument proceeded back and forth for several minutes over why
cataloguing might be a necessary service, LEBRON suggested that this
issue involved the responsibility of a publisher.  The fact that someone
has created something electronically and keeps it under his or her
control does not constitute publication.  Publication implies
dissemination.  While it would be important for a scholar to let other
people know that this creation exists, in many respects this is no
different from an unpublished manuscript.  That is what is being accessed
in there, except that now one is not looking at it in the hard-copy but
in the electronic environment.

LEBRON expressed puzzlement at the variety of ways electronic publishing
has been viewed.  Much of what has been discussed throughout these two
days has concerned CD-ROM publishing, whereas in the on-line environment
that she confronts, the constraints and challenges are very different.
Sooner or later LC will have to deal with the concept of on-line
publishing.  Taking up the comment ERWAY made earlier about storing
copies, LEBRON gave her own journal as an example.  How would she deposit
OJCCT for copyright?, she asked, because the journal will exist in the
mainframe at OCLC and people will be able to access it.  Here the
situation is different, ownership versus access, and is something that
arises with publication in the on-line environment, faster than is
sometimes realized.  Lacking clear answers to all of these questions
herself, LEBRON did not anticipate that LC would be able to take a role
in helping to define some of them for quite a while.

GREENFIELD observed that LC's Network Development Office is attempting,
among other things, to explore the limits of MARC as a standard in terms
of handling electronic information.  GREENFIELD also noted that Rebecca
GUENTHER from that office gave a paper to the American Society for
Information Science (ASIS) summarizing several of the discussion papers
that were coming out of the Network Development Office.  GREENFIELD said
he understood that that office had a list-server soliciting just the kind
of feedback received today concerning the difficulties of identifying and
cataloguing electronic information.  GREENFIELD hoped that everybody
would be aware of that and somehow contribute to that conversation.

Noting two of LC's roles, first, to act as a repository of record for
material that is copyrighted in this country, and second, to make
materials it holds available in some limited form to a clientele that
goes beyond Congress, BESSER suggested that it was incumbent on LC to
extend those responsibilities to all the things being published in
electronic form.  This would mean eventually accepting electronic
formats.  LC could require that at some point they be in a certain
limited set of formats, and then develop mechanisms for allowing people
to access those in the same way that other things are accessed.  This
does not imply that they are on the network and available to everyone.
LC does that with most of its bibliographic records, BESSER said, which
end up migrating to the utility (e.g., OCLC) or somewhere else.  But just
as most of LC's books are available in some form through interlibrary
loan or some other mechanism, so in the same way electronic formats ought
to be available to others in some format, though with some copyright
considerations.  BESSER was not suggesting that these mechanisms be
established tomorrow, only that they seemed to fall within LC's purview,
and that there should be long-range plans to establish them.

Acknowledging that those from LC in the room agreed with BESSER
concerning the need to confront difficult questions, GIFFORD underscored
the magnitude of the problem of what to keep and what to select.  GIFFORD
noted that LC currently receives some 31,000 items per day, not counting
electronic materials, and argued for much more distributed responsibility
in order to maintain and store electronic information.

BESSER responded that the assembled group could be viewed as a starting
point, whose initial operating premise could be helping to move in this
direction and defining how LC could do so, for example, in areas of
standardization or distribution of responsibility.

FLEISCHHAUER added that AM was fully engaged, wrestling with some of the
questions that pertain to the conversion of older historical materials,
which would be one thing that the Library of Congress might do.  Several
points mentioned by BESSER and several others on this question have a
much greater impact on those who are concerned with cataloguing and the
networking of bibliographic information, as well as preservation itself.

Speaking directly to AM, which he considered was a largely uncopyrighted
database, LYNCH urged development of a network version of AM, or
consideration of making the data in it available to people interested in
doing network multimedia.  On account of the current great shortage of
digital data that is both appealing and unencumbered by complex rights
problems, this course of action could have a significant effect on making
network multimedia a reality.

In this connection, FLEISCHHAUER reported on a fragmentary prototype in
LC's Office of Information Technology Services that attempts to associate
digital images of photographs with cataloguing information in ways that
work within a local area network--a step, so to say, toward AM's
construction of some sort of apparatus for access.  Further, AM has
attempted to use standard data forms in order to help make that
distinction between the access tools and the underlying data, and thus
believes that the database is networkable.

A delicate and agonizing policy question for LC, however, which comes
back to resources and unfortunately has an impact on this, is to find
some appropriate, honorable, and legal cost-recovery possibilities.  A
certain skittishness concerning cost-recovery has made people unsure
exactly what to do.  AM would be highly receptive to discussing further
LYNCH's offer to test or demonstrate its database in a network
environment, FLEISCHHAUER said.

Returning the discussion to what she viewed as the vital issue of
electronic deposit, BATTIN recommended that LC initiate a catalytic
process in terms of distributed responsibility, that is, bring together
the distributed organizations and set up a study group to look at all
these issues and see where we as a nation should move.  The broader
issues of how we deal with the management of electronic information will
not disappear, but only grow worse.

LESK took up this theme and suggested that LC attempt to persuade one
major library in each state to deal with its state equivalent publisher,
which might produce a cooperative project that would be equitably
distributed around the country, and one in which LC would be dealing with
a minimal number of publishers and minimal copyright problems.

GRABER remarked the recent development in the scientific community of a
willingness to use SGML and either deposit or interchange on a fairly
standardized format.  He wondered if a similar movement was taking place
in the humanities.  Although the National Library of Medicine found only
a few publishers to cooperate in a like venture two or three years ago, a
new effort might generate a much larger number willing to cooperate.

KIMBALL recounted his unit's (Machine-Readable Collections Reading Room)
troubles with the commercial publishers of electronic media in acquiring
materials for LC's collections, in particular the publishers' fear that
they would not be able to cover their costs and would lose control of
their products, that LC would give them away or sell them and make
profits from them.  He doubted that the publishing industry was prepared
to move into this area at the moment, given its resistance to allowing LC
to use its machine-readable materials as the Library would like.

The copyright law now addresses compact disk as a medium, and LC can
request one copy of that, or two copies if it is the only version, and
can request copies of software, but that fails to address magazines or
books or anything like that which is in machine-readable form.

GIFFORD acknowledged the thorny nature of this issue, which he illustrated
with the example of the cumbersome process involved in putting a copy of a
scientific database on a LAN in LC's science reading room.  He also
acknowledged that LC needs help and could enlist the energies and talents
of Workshop participants in thinking through a number of these problems.

GIFFORD returned the discussion to getting the image and text people to
think through together where they want to go in the long term.  MYLONAS
conceded that her experience at the Pierce Symposium the previous week at
Georgetown University and this week at LC had forced her to reevaluate
her perspective on the usefulness of text as images.  MYLONAS framed the
issues in a series of questions:  How do we acquire machine-readable
text?  Do we take pictures of it and perform OCR on it later?  Is it
important to obtain very high-quality images and text, etc.?
FLEISCHHAUER agreed with MYLONAS's framing of strategic questions, adding
that a large institution such as LC probably has to do all of those
things at different times.  Thus, the trick is to exercise judgment.  The
Workshop had added to his and AM's considerations in making those
judgments.  Concerning future meetings or discussions, MYLONAS suggested
that screening priorities would be helpful.

WEIBEL opined that the diversity reflected in this group was a sign both
of the health and of the immaturity of the field, and more time would
have to pass before we convince one another concerning standards.

An exchange between MYLONAS and BATTIN clarified the point that the
driving force behind both the Perseus and the Cornell Xerox projects was
the preservation of knowledge for the future, not simply for particular
research use.  In the case of Perseus, MYLONAS said, the assumption was
that the texts would not be entered again into electronically readable
form.  SPERBERG-McQUEEN added that a scanned image would not serve as an
archival copy for purposes of preservation in the case of, say, the Bill
of Rights, in the sense that the scanned images are effectively the
archival copies for the Cornell mathematics books.


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                          Appendix I:  PROGRAM



                                WORKSHOP
                                   ON
                               ELECTRONIC
                                  TEXTS



                             9-10 June 1992

                           Library of Congress
                            Washington, D.C.



    Supported by a Grant from the David and Lucile Packard Foundation


Tuesday, 9 June 1992

NATIONAL DEMONSTRATION LAB, ATRIUM, LIBRARY MADISON

8:30 AM   Coffee and Danish, registration

9:00 AM   Welcome

          Prosser Gifford, Director for Scholarly Programs, and Carl
             Fleischhauer, Coordinator, American Memory, Library of
             Congress

9:l5 AM   Session I.  Content in a New Form:  Who Will Use It and What
          Will They Do?

          Broad description of the range of electronic information.
          Characterization of who uses it and how it is or may be used.
          In addition to a look at scholarly uses, this session will
          include a presentation on use by students (K-12 and college)
          and the general public.

          Moderator:  James Daly
          Avra Michelson, Archival Research and Evaluation Staff,
             National Archives and Records Administration (Overview)
          Susan H. Veccia, Team Leader, American Memory, User Evaluation,
             and
          Joanne Freeman, Associate Coordinator, American Memory, Library
             of Congress (Beyond the scholar)

10:30-
11:00 AM  Break

11:00 AM  Session II.  Show and Tell.

          Each presentation to consist of a fifteen-minute
          statement/show; group discussion will follow lunch.

          Moderator:  Jacqueline Hess, Director, National Demonstration
             Lab

            1.  A classics project, stressing texts and text retrieval
                more than multimedia:  Perseus Project, Harvard
                University
                Elli Mylonas, Managing Editor

            2.  Other humanities projects employing the emerging norms of
                the Text Encoding Initiative (TEI):  Chadwyck-Healey's
                The English Poetry Full Text Database and/or Patrologia
                Latina Database
                Eric M. Calaluca, Vice President, Chadwyck-Healey, Inc.

            3.  American Memory
                Carl Fleischhauer, Coordinator, and
                Ricky Erway, Associate Coordinator, Library of Congress

            4.  Founding Fathers example from Packard Humanities
                Institute:  The Papers of George Washington, University
                of Virginia
                Dorothy Twohig, Managing Editor, and/or
                David Woodley Packard

            5.  An electronic medical journal offering graphics and
                full-text searchability:  The Online Journal of Current
                Clinical Trials, American Association for the Advancement
                of Science
                Maria L. Lebron, Managing Editor

            6.  A project that offers facsimile images of pages but omits
                searchable text:  Cornell math books
                Lynne K. Personius, Assistant Director, Cornell
                   Information Technologies for Scholarly Information
                   Sources, Cornell University

12:30 PM  Lunch  (Dining Room A, Library Madison 620.  Exhibits
          available.)

1:30 PM   Session II.  Show and Tell (Cont'd.).

3:00-
3:30 PM   Break

3:30-
5:30 PM   Session III.  Distribution, Networks, and Networking:  Options
          for Dissemination.

          Published disks:  University presses and public-sector
             publishers, private-sector publishers
          Computer networks

          Moderator:  Robert G. Zich, Special Assistant to the Associate
             Librarian for Special Projects, Library of Congress
          Clifford A. Lynch, Director, Library Automation, University of
             California
          Howard Besser, School of Library and Information Science,
             University of Pittsburgh
          Ronald L. Larsen, Associate Director of Libraries for
             Information Technology, University of Maryland at College
             Park
          Edwin B. Brownrigg, Executive Director, Memex Research
             Institute

6:30 PM   Reception  (Montpelier Room, Library Madison 619.)

                                 ******

Wednesday, 10 June 1992

DINING ROOM A, LIBRARY MADISON 620

8:30 AM   Coffee and Danish

9:00 AM   Session IV.  Image Capture, Text Capture, Overview of Text and
          Image Storage Formats.

          Moderator:  William L. Hooton, Vice President of Operations,
             I-NET

          A) Principal Methods for Image Capture of Text:
             Direct scanning
             Use of microform

          Anne R. Kenney, Assistant Director, Department of Preservation
             and Conservation, Cornell University
          Pamela Q.J. Andre, Associate Director, Automation, and
          Judith A. Zidar, Coordinator, National Agricultural Text
             Digitizing Program (NATDP), National Agricultural Library
             (NAL)
          Donald J. Waters, Head, Systems Office, Yale University Library

          B) Special Problems:
             Bound volumes
             Conservation
             Reproducing printed halftones

          Carl Fleischhauer, Coordinator, American Memory, Library of
             Congress
          George Thoma, Chief, Communications Engineering Branch,
             National Library of Medicine (NLM)

10:30-
11:00 AM  Break

11:00 AM  Session IV.  Image Capture, Text Capture, Overview of Text and
          Image Storage Formats (Cont'd.).

          C) Image Standards and Implications for Preservation

          Jean Baronas, Senior Manager, Department of Standards and
             Technology, Association for Information and Image Management
             (AIIM)
          Patricia Battin, President, The Commission on Preservation and
             Access (CPA)

          D) Text Conversion:
             OCR vs. rekeying
             Standards of accuracy and use of imperfect texts
             Service bureaus

          Stuart Weibel, Senior Research Specialist, Online Computer
             Library Center, Inc. (OCLC)
          Michael Lesk, Executive Director, Computer Science Research,
             Bellcore
          Ricky Erway, Associate Coordinator, American Memory, Library of
             Congress
          Pamela Q.J. Andre, Associate Director, Automation, and
          Judith A. Zidar, Coordinator, National Agricultural Text
             Digitizing Program (NATDP), National Agricultural Library
             (NAL)

12:30-
1:30 PM   Lunch

1:30 PM   Session V.  Approaches to Preparing Electronic Texts.

          Discussion of approaches to structuring text for the computer;
          pros and cons of text coding, description of methods in
          practice, and comparison of text-coding methods.

          Moderator:  Susan Hockey, Director, Center for Electronic Texts
             in the Humanities (CETH), Rutgers and Princeton Universities
          David Woodley Packard
          C.M. Sperberg-McQueen, Editor, Text Encoding Initiative (TEI),
             University of Illinois-Chicago
          Eric M. Calaluca, Vice President, Chadwyck-Healey, Inc.

3:30-
4:00 PM   Break

4:00 PM   Session VI.  Copyright Issues.

          Marybeth Peters, Policy Planning Adviser to the Register of
             Copyrights, Library of Congress

5:00 PM   Session VII. Conclusion.

          General discussion.
          What topics were omitted or given short shrift that anyone
             would like to talk about now?
          Is there a "group" here?  What should the group do next, if
             anything?  What should the Library of Congress do next, if
             anything?
          Moderator:  Prosser Gifford, Director for Scholarly Programs,
             Library of Congress

6:00 PM   Adjourn


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                         Appendix II:  ABSTRACTS


SESSION I

Avra MICHELSON           Forecasting the Use of Electronic Texts by
                         Social Sciences and Humanities Scholars

This presentation explores the ways in which electronic texts are likely
to be used by the non-scientific scholarly community.  Many of the
remarks are drawn from a report the speaker coauthored with Jeff
Rothenberg, a computer scientist at The RAND Corporation.

The speaker assesses 1) current scholarly use of information technology
and 2) the key trends in information technology most relevant to the
research process, in order to predict how social sciences and humanities
scholars are apt to use electronic texts.  In introducing the topic,
current use of electronic texts is explored broadly within the context of
scholarly communication.  From the perspective of scholarly
communication, the work of humanities and social sciences scholars
involves five processes:  1) identification of sources, 2) communication
with colleagues, 3) interpretation and analysis of data, 4) dissemination
of research findings, and 5) curriculum development and instruction.  The
extent to which computation currently permeates aspects of scholarly
communication represents a viable indicator of the prospects for
electronic texts.

The discussion of current practice is balanced by an analysis of key
trends in the scholarly use of information technology.  These include the
trends toward end-user computing and connectivity, which provide a
framework for forecasting the use of electronic texts through this
millennium.  The presentation concludes with a summary of the ways in
which the nonscientific scholarly community can be expected to use
electronic texts, and the implications of that use for information
providers.

Susan VECCIA and Joanne FREEMAN    Electronic Archives for the Public:
                                   Use of American Memory in Public and
                                   School Libraries

This joint discussion focuses on nonscholarly applications of electronic
library materials, specifically addressing use of the Library of Congress
American Memory (AM) program in a small number of public and school
libraries throughout the United States.  AM consists of selected Library
of Congress primary archival materials, stored on optical media
(CD-ROM/videodisc), and presented with little or no editing.  Many
collections are accompanied by electronic introductions and user's guides
offering background information and historical context.  Collections
represent a variety of formats including photographs, graphic arts,
motion pictures, recorded sound, music, broadsides and manuscripts,
books, and pamphlets.

In 1991, the Library of Congress began a nationwide evaluation of AM in
different types of institutions.  Test sites include public libraries,
elementary and secondary school libraries, college and university
libraries, state libraries, and special libraries.  Susan VECCIA and
Joanne FREEMAN will discuss their observations on the use of AM by the
nonscholarly community, using evidence gleaned from this ongoing
evaluation effort.

VECCIA will comment on the overall goals of the evaluation project, and
the types of public and school libraries included in this study.  Her
comments on nonscholarly use of AM will focus on the public library as a
cultural and community institution, often bridging the gap between formal
and informal education.  FREEMAN will discuss the use of AM in school
libraries.  Use by students and teachers has revealed some broad
questions about the use of electronic resources, as well as definite
benefits gained by the "nonscholar."  Topics will include the problem of
grasping content and context in an electronic environment, the stumbling
blocks created by "new" technologies, and the unique skills and interests
awakened through use of electronic resources.

SESSION II

Elli MYLONAS             The Perseus Project:  Interactive Sources and
                         Studies in Classical Greece

The Perseus Project (5) has just released Perseus 1.0, the first publicly
available version of its hypertextual database of multimedia materials on
classical Greece.  Perseus is designed to be used by a wide audience,
comprised of readers at the student and scholar levels.  As such, it must
be able to locate information using different strategies, and it must
contain enough detail to serve the different needs of its users.  In
addition, it must be delivered so that it is affordable to its target
audience.  [These problems and the solutions we chose are described in
Mylonas, "An Interface to Classical Greek Civilization," JASIS 43:2,
March 1992.]

In order to achieve its objective, the project staff decided to make a
conscious separation between selecting and converting textual, database,
and image data on the one hand, and putting it into a delivery system on
the other.  That way, it is possible to create the electronic data
without thinking about the restrictions of the delivery system.  We have
made a great effort to choose system-independent formats for our data,
and to put as much thought and work as possible into structuring it so
that the translation from paper to electronic form will enhance the value
of the data. [A discussion of these solutions as of two years ago is in
Elli Mylonas, Gregory Crane, Kenneth Morrell, and D. Neel Smith, "The
Perseus Project:  Data in the Electronic Age," in Accessing Antiquity:
The Computerization of Classical Databases, J. Solomon and T. Worthen
(eds.),  University of Arizona Press, in press.]

Much of the work on Perseus is focused on collecting and converting the
data on which the project is based.  At the same time, it is necessary to
provide means of access to the information, in order to make it usable,
and them to investigate how it is used.  As we learn more about what
students and scholars from different backgrounds do with Perseus, we can
adjust our data collection, and also modify the system to accommodate
them.  In creating a delivery system for general use, we have tried to
avoid favoring any one type of use by allowing multiple forms of access
to and navigation through the system.

The way text is handled exemplifies some of these principles.  All text
in Perseus is tagged using SGML, following the guidelines of the Text
Encoding Initiative (TEI).  This markup is used to index the text, and
process it so that it can be imported into HyperCard.  No SGML markup
remains in the text that reaches the user, because currently it would be
too expensive to create a system that acts on SGML in real time.
However, the regularity provided by SGML is essential for verifying the
content of the texts, and greatly speeds all the processing performed on
them.  The fact that the texts exist in SGML ensures that they will be
relatively easy to port to different hardware and software, and so will
outlast the current delivery platform.  Finally, the SGML markup
incorporates existing canonical reference systems (chapter, verse, line,
etc.); indexing and navigation are based on these features.  This ensures
that the same canonical reference will always resolve to the same point
within a text, and that all versions of our texts, regardless of delivery
platform (even paper printouts) will function the same way.

In order to provide tools for users, the text is processed by a
morphological analyzer, and the results are stored in a database.
Together with the index, the Greek-English Lexicon, and the index of all
the English words in the definitions of the lexicon, the morphological
analyses comprise a set of linguistic tools that allow users of all
levels to work with the textual information, and to accomplish different
tasks.  For example, students who read no Greek may explore a concept as
it appears in Greek texts by using the English-Greek index, and then
looking up works in the texts and translations, or scholars may do
detailed morphological studies of word use by using the morphological
analyses of the texts.  Because these tools were not designed for any one
use, the same tools and the same data can be used by both students and
scholars.

NOTES:
     (5)  Perseus is based at Harvard University, with collaborators at
     several other universities.  The project has been funded primarily
     by the Annenberg/CPB Project, as well as by Harvard University,
     Apple Computer, and others.  It is published by Yale University
     Press.  Perseus runs on Macintosh computers, under the HyperCard
     program.

Eric CALALUCA

Chadwyck-Healey embarked last year on two distinct yet related full-text
humanities database projects.

The English Poetry Full-Text Database and the Patrologia Latina Database
represent new approaches to linguistic research resources.  The size and
complexity of the projects present problems for electronic publishers,
but surmountable ones if they remain abreast of the latest possibilities
in data capture and retrieval software techniques.

The issues which required address prior to the commencement of the
projects were legion:

     1.   Editorial selection (or exclusion) of materials in each
          database

     2.   Deciding whether or not to incorporate a normative encoding
          structure into the databases?
               A.  If one is selected, should it be SGML?
               B.  If SGML, then the TEI?

     3.   Deliver as CD-ROM, magnetic tape, or both?

     4.   Can one produce retrieval software advanced enough for the
          postdoctoral linguist, yet accessible enough for unattended
          general use?  Should one try?

     5.   Re fair and liberal networking policies, what are the risks to
          an electronic publisher?

     6.   How does the emergence of national and international education
          networks affect the use and viability of research projects
          requiring high investment?  Do the new European Community
          directives concerning database protection necessitate two
          distinct publishing projects, one for North America and one for
          overseas?

From new notions of "scholarly fair use" to the future of optical media,
virtually every issue related to electronic publishing was aired.  The
result is two projects which have been constructed to provide the quality
research resources with the fewest encumbrances to use by teachers and
private scholars.

Dorothy TWOHIG

In spring 1988 the editors of the papers of George Washington, John
Adams, Thomas Jefferson, James Madison, and Benjamin Franklin were
approached by classics scholar David Packard on behalf of the Packard
Humanities Foundation with a proposal to produce a CD-ROM edition of the
complete papers of each of the Founding Fathers.  This electronic edition
will supplement the published volumes, making the documents widely
available to students and researchers at reasonable cost.  We estimate
that our CD-ROM edition of Washington's Papers will be substantially
completed within the next two years and ready for publication.  Within
the next ten years or so, similar CD-ROM editions of the Franklin, Adams,
Jefferson, and Madison papers also will be available.  At the Library of
Congress's session on technology, I would like to discuss not only the
experience of the Washington Papers in producing the CD-ROM edition, but
the impact technology has had on these major editorial projects.
Already, we are editing our volumes with an eye to the material that will
be readily available in the CD-ROM edition.  The completed electronic
edition will provide immense possibilities for the searching of documents
for information in a way never possible before.  The kind of technical
innovations that are currently available and on the drawing board will
soon revolutionize historical research and the production of historical
documents.  Unfortunately, much of this new technology is not being used
in the planning stages of historical projects, simply because many
historians are aware only in the vaguest way of its existence.  At least
two major new historical editing projects are considering microfilm
editions, simply because they are not aware of the possibilities of
electronic alternatives and the advantages of the new technology in terms
of flexibility and research potential compared to microfilm.  In fact,
too many of us in history and literature are still at the stage of
struggling with our PCs.  There are many historical editorial projects in
progress presently, and an equal number of literary projects.  While the
two fields have somewhat different approaches to textual editing, there
are ways in which electronic technology can be of service to both.

Since few of the editors involved in the Founding Fathers CD-ROM editions
are technical experts in any sense, I hope to point out in my discussion
of our experience how many of these electronic innovations can be used
successfully by scholars who are novices in the world of new technology.
One of the major concerns of the sponsors of the multitude of new
scholarly editions is the limited audience reached by the published
volumes.  Most of these editions are being published in small quantities
and the publishers' price for them puts them out of the reach not only of
individual scholars but of most public libraries and all but the largest
educational institutions.  However, little attention is being given to
ways in which technology can bypass conventional publication to make
historical and literary documents more widely available.

What attracted us most to the CD-ROM edition of The Papers of George
Washington was the fact that David Packard's aim was to make a complete
edition of all of the 135,000 documents we have collected available in an
inexpensive format that would be placed in public libraries, small
colleges, and even high schools.  This would provide an audience far
beyond our present 1,000-copy, $45 published edition.  Since the CD-ROM
edition will carry none of the explanatory annotation that appears in the
published volumes, we also feel that the use of the CD-ROM will lead many
researchers to seek out the published volumes.

In addition to ignorance of new technical advances, I have found that too
many editors--and historians and literary scholars--are resistant and
even hostile to suggestions that electronic technology may enhance their
work.  I intend to discuss some of the arguments traditionalists are
advancing to resist technology, ranging from distrust of the speed with
which it changes (we are already wondering what is out there that is
better than CD-ROM) to suspicion of the technical language used to
describe electronic developments.

Maria LEBRON

The Online Journal of Current Clinical Trials, a joint venture of the
American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) and the Online
Computer Library Center, Inc. (OCLC), is the first peer-reviewed journal
to provide full text, tabular material, and line illustrations on line.
This presentation will discuss the genesis and start-up period of the
journal.  Topics of discussion will include historical overview,
day-to-day management of the editorial peer review, and manuscript
tagging and publication.  A demonstration of the journal and its features
will accompany the presentation.

Lynne PERSONIUS

Cornell University Library, Cornell Information Technologies, and Xerox
Corporation, with the support of the Commission on Preservation and
Access, and Sun Microsystems, Inc., have been collaborating in a project
to test a prototype system for recording brittle books as digital images
and producing, on demand, high-quality archival paper replacements.  The
project goes beyond that, however, to investigate some of the issues
surrounding scanning, storing, retrieving, and providing access to
digital images in a network environment.

The Joint Study in Digital Preservation began in January 1990.  Xerox
provided the College Library Access and Storage System (CLASS) software,
a prototype 600-dots-per-inch (dpi) scanner, and the hardware necessary
to support network printing on the DocuTech printer housed in Cornell's
Computing and Communications Center (CCC).

The Cornell staff using the hardware and software became an integral part
of the development and testing process for enhancements to the CLASS
software system.  The collaborative nature of this relationship is
resulting in a system that is specifically tailored to the preservation
application.

A digital library of 1,000 volumes (or approximately 300,000 images) has
been created and is stored on an optical jukebox that resides in CCC.
The library includes a collection of select mathematics monographs that
provides mathematics faculty with an opportunity to use the electronic
library.  The remaining volumes were chosen for the library to test the
various capabilities of the scanning system.

One project objective is to provide users of the Cornell library and the
library staff with the ability to request facsimiles of digitized images
or to retrieve the actual electronic image for browsing.  A prototype
viewing workstation has been created by Xerox, with input into the design
by a committee of Cornell librarians and computer professionals.  This
will allow us to experiment with patron access to the images that make up
the digital library.  The viewing station provides search, retrieval, and
(ultimately) printing functions with enhancements to facilitate
navigation through multiple documents.

Cornell currently is working to extend access to the digital library to
readers using workstations from their offices.  This year is devoted to
the development of a network resident image conversion and delivery
server, and client software that will support readers who use Apple
Macintosh computers, IBM windows platforms, and Sun workstations.
Equipment for this development was provided by Sun Microsystems with
support from the Commission on Preservation and Access.

During the show-and-tell session of the Workshop on Electronic Texts, a
prototype view station will be demonstrated.  In addition, a display of
original library books that have been digitized will be available for
review with associated printed copies for comparison.  The fifteen-minute
overview of the project will include a slide presentation that
constitutes a "tour" of the preservation digitizing process.

The final network-connected version of the viewing station will provide
library users with another mechanism for accessing the digital library,
and will also provide the capability of viewing images directly.  This
will not require special software, although a powerful computer with good
graphics will be needed.

The Joint Study in Digital Preservation has generated a great deal of
interest in the library community.  Unfortunately, or perhaps
fortunately, this project serves to raise a vast number of other issues
surrounding the use of digital technology for the preservation and use of
deteriorating library materials, which subsequent projects will need to
examine.  Much work remains.

SESSION III

Howard BESSER                      Networking Multimedia Databases

What do we have to consider in building and distributing databases of
visual materials in a multi-user environment?  This presentation examines
a variety of concerns that need to be addressed before a multimedia
database can be set up in a networked environment.

In the past it has not been feasible to implement databases of visual
materials in shared-user environments because of technological barriers.
Each of the two basic models for multi-user multimedia databases has
posed its own problem.  The analog multimedia storage model (represented
by Project Athena's parallel analog and digital networks) has required an
incredibly complex (and expensive) infrastructure.  The economies of
scale that make multi-user setups cheaper per user served do not operate
in an environment that requires a computer workstation, videodisc player,
and two display devices for each user.

The digital multimedia storage model has required vast amounts of storage
space (as much as one gigabyte per thirty still images).  In the past the
cost of such a large amount of storage space made this model a
prohibitive choice as well.  But plunging storage costs are finally
making this second alternative viable.

If storage no longer poses such an impediment, what do we need to
consider in building digitally stored multi-user databases of visual
materials?  This presentation will examine the networking and
telecommunication constraints that must be overcome before such databases
can become commonplace and useful to a large number of people.

The key problem is the vast size of multimedia documents, and how this
affects not only storage but telecommunications transmission time.
Anything slower than T-1 speed is impractical for files of 1 megabyte or
larger (which is likely to be small for a multimedia document).  For
instance, even on a 56 Kb line it would take three minutes to transfer a
1-megabyte file.  And these figures assume ideal circumstances, and do
not take into consideration other users contending for network bandwidth,
disk access time, or the time needed for remote display.  Current common
telephone transmission rates would be completely impractical; few users
would be willing to wait the hour necessary to transmit a single image at
2400 baud.

This necessitates compression, which itself raises a number of other
issues.  In order to decrease file sizes significantly, we must employ
lossy compression algorithms.  But how much quality can we afford to
lose?  To date there has been only one significant study done of
image-quality needs for a particular user group, and this study did not
look at loss resulting from compression.  Only after identifying
image-quality needs can we begin to address storage and network bandwidth
needs.

Experience with X-Windows-based applications (such as Imagequery, the
University of California at Berkeley image database) demonstrates the
utility of a client-server topology, but also points to the limitation of
current software for a distributed environment.  For example,
applications like Imagequery can incorporate compression, but current X
implementations do not permit decompression at the end user's
workstation.  Such decompression at the host computer alleviates storage
capacity problems while doing nothing to address problems of
telecommunications bandwidth.

We need to examine the effects on network through-put of moving
multimedia documents around on a network.  We need to examine various
topologies that will help us avoid bottlenecks around servers and
gateways.  Experience with applications such as these raise still broader
questions. How closely is the multimedia document tied to the software
for viewing it?  Can it be accessed and viewed from other applications?
Experience with the MARC format (and more recently with the Z39.50
protocols) shows how useful it can be to store documents in a form in
which they can be accessed by a variety of application software.

Finally, from an intellectual-access standpoint, we need to address the
issue of providing access to these multimedia documents in
interdisciplinary environments.  We need to examine terminology and
indexing strategies that will allow us to provide access to this material
in a cross-disciplinary way.

Ronald LARSEN            Directions in High-Performance Networking for
                         Libraries

The pace at which computing technology has advanced over the past forty
years shows no sign of abating.  Roughly speaking, each five-year period
has yielded an order-of-magnitude improvement in price and performance of
computing equipment.  No fundamental hurdles are likely to prevent this
pace from continuing for at least the next decade.  It is only in the
past five years, though, that computing has become ubiquitous in
libraries, affecting all staff and patrons, directly or indirectly.

During these same five years, communications rates on the Internet, the
principal academic computing network, have grown from 56 kbps to 1.5
Mbps, and the NSFNet backbone is now running 45 Mbps.  Over the next five
years, communication rates on the backbone are expected to exceed 1 Gbps.
Growth in both the population of network users and the volume of network
traffic  has continued to grow geometrically, at rates approaching 15
percent per month.  This flood of capacity and use, likened by some to
"drinking from a firehose,"  creates immense opportunities and challenges
for libraries.  Libraries must anticipate the future implications of this
technology, participate in its development, and deploy it to ensure
access to the world's information resources.

The infrastructure for the information age is being put in place.
Libraries face strategic decisions about their role in the development,
deployment, and use of this infrastructure.  The emerging infrastructure
is much more than computers and communication lines.  It is more than the
ability to compute at a remote site, send electronic mail to a peer
across the country, or move a file from one library to another.  The next
five years will witness substantial development of the information
infrastructure of the network.

In order to provide appropriate leadership, library professionals must
have a fundamental understanding of and appreciation for computer
networking, from local area networks to the National Research and
Education Network (NREN).  This presentation addresses these
fundamentals, and how they relate to libraries today and in the near
future.

Edwin BROWNRIGG               Electronic Library Visions and Realities

The electronic library has been a vision desired by many--and rejected by
some--since Vannevar Bush coined the term memex to describe an automated,
intelligent, personal information system.  Variations on this vision have
included Ted Nelson's Xanadau, Alan Kay's Dynabook, and Lancaster's
"paperless library," with the most recent incarnation being the
"Knowledge Navigator" described by John Scully of Apple.  But the reality
of library service has been less visionary and the leap to the electronic
library has eluded universities, publishers, and information technology
files.

The Memex Research Institute (MemRI), an independent, nonprofit research
and development organization, has created an Electronic Library Program
of shared research and development in order to make the collective vision
more concrete.  The program is working toward the creation of large,
indexed publicly available electronic image collections of published
documents in academic, special, and public libraries.  This strategic
plan is the result of the first stage of the program, which has been an
investigation of the information technologies available to support such
an effort, the economic parameters of electronic service compared to
traditional library operations, and the business and political factors
affecting the shift from print distribution to electronic networked
access.

The strategic plan envisions a combination of publicly searchable access
databases, image (and text) document collections stored on network "file
servers," local and remote network access, and an intellectual property
management-control system.  This combination of technology and
information content is defined in this plan as an E-library or E-library
collection.  Some participating sponsors are already developing projects
based on MemRI's recommended directions.

The E-library strategy projected in this plan is a visionary one that can
enable major changes and improvements in academic, public, and special
library service.  This vision is, though, one that can be realized with
today's technology.  At the same time, it will challenge the political
and social structure within which libraries operate:  in academic
libraries, the traditional emphasis on local collections, extending to
accreditation issues; in public libraries, the potential of electronic
branch and central libraries fully available to the public; and for
special libraries, new opportunities for shared collections and networks.

The environment in which this strategic plan has been developed is, at
the moment, dominated by a sense of library limits.  The continued
expansion and rapid growth of local academic library collections is now
clearly at an end.  Corporate libraries, and even law libraries, are
faced with operating within a difficult economic climate, as well as with
very active competition from commercial information sources.  For
example, public libraries may be seen as a desirable but not critical
municipal service in a time when the budgets of safety and health
agencies are being cut back.

Further, libraries in general have a very high labor-to-cost ratio in
their budgets, and labor costs are still increasing, notwithstanding
automation investments.  It is difficult for libraries to obtain capital,
startup, or seed funding for innovative activities, and those
technology-intensive initiatives that offer the potential of decreased
labor costs can provoke the opposition of library staff.

However, libraries have achieved some considerable successes in the past
two decades by improving both their service and their credibility within
their organizations--and these positive changes have been accomplished
mostly with judicious use of information technologies.  The advances in
computing and information technology have been well-chronicled:  the
continuing precipitous drop in computing costs, the growth of the
Internet and private networks, and the explosive increase in publicly
available information databases.

For example, OCLC has become one of the largest computer network
organizations in the world by creating a cooperative cataloging network
of more than 6,000 libraries worldwide.  On-line public access catalogs
now serve millions of users on more than 50,000 dedicated terminals in
the United States alone.  The University of California MELVYL on-line
catalog system has now expanded into an index database reference service
and supports more than six million searches a year.  And, libraries have
become the largest group of customers of CD-ROM publishing technology;
more than 30,000 optical media publications such as those offered by
InfoTrac and Silver Platter are subscribed to by U.S. libraries.

This march of technology continues and in the next decade will result in
further innovations that are extremely difficult to predict.  What is
clear is that libraries can now go beyond automation of their order files
and catalogs to automation of their collections themselves--and it is
possible to circumvent the fiscal limitations that appear to obtain
today.

This Electronic Library Strategic Plan recommends a paradigm shift in
library service, and demonstrates the steps necessary to provide improved
library services with limited capacities and operating investments.

SESSION IV-A

Anne KENNEY

The Cornell/Xerox Joint Study in Digital Preservation resulted in the
recording of 1,000 brittle books as 600-dpi digital images and the
production, on demand, of high-quality and archivally sound paper
replacements.  The project, which was supported by the Commission on
Preservation and Access, also investigated some of the issues surrounding
scanning, storing, retrieving, and providing access to digital images in
a network environment.

Anne Kenney will focus on some of the issues surrounding direct scanning
as identified in the Cornell Xerox Project.  Among those to be discussed
are:  image versus text capture; indexing and access; image-capture
capabilities; a comparison to photocopy and microfilm; production and
cost analysis; storage formats, protocols, and standards; and the use of
this scanning technology for preservation purposes.

The 600-dpi digital images produced in the Cornell Xerox Project proved
highly acceptable for creating paper replacements of deteriorating
originals.  The 1,000 scanned volumes provided an array of image-capture
challenges that are common to nineteenth-century printing techniques and
embrittled material, and that defy the use of text-conversion processes.
These challenges include diminished contrast between text and background,
fragile and deteriorated pages, uneven printing, elaborate type faces,
faint and bold text adjacency, handwritten text and annotations, nonRoman
languages, and a proliferation of illustrated material embedded in text.
The latter category included high-frequency and low-frequency halftones,
continuous tone photographs, intricate mathematical drawings, maps,
etchings, reverse-polarity drawings, and engravings.

The Xerox prototype scanning system provided a number of important
features for capturing this diverse material.  Technicians used multiple
threshold settings, filters, line art and halftone definitions,
autosegmentation, windowing, and software-editing programs to optimize
image capture.  At the same time, this project focused on production.
The goal was to make scanning as affordable and acceptable as
photocopying and microfilming for preservation reformatting.  A
time-and-cost study conducted during the last three months of this
project confirmed the economic viability of digital scanning, and these
findings will be discussed here.

From the outset, the Cornell Xerox Project was predicated on the use of
nonproprietary standards and the use of common protocols when standards
did not exist.  Digital files were created as TIFF images which were
compressed prior to storage using Group 4 CCITT compression.  The Xerox
software is MS DOS based and utilizes off-the shelf programs such as
Microsoft Windows and Wang Image Wizard.  The digital library is designed
to be hardware-independent and to provide interchangeability with other
institutions through network connections.  Access to the digital files
themselves is two-tiered:  Bibliographic records for the computer files
are created in RLIN and Cornell's local system and access into the actual
digital images comprising a book is provided through a document control
structure and a networked image file-server, both of which will be
described.

The presentation will conclude with a discussion of some of the issues
surrounding the use of this technology as a preservation tool (storage,
refreshing, backup).

Pamela ANDRE and Judith ZIDAR

The National Agricultural Library (NAL) has had extensive experience with
raster scanning of printed materials.  Since 1987, the Library has
participated in the National Agricultural Text Digitizing Project (NATDP)
a cooperative effort between NAL and forty-five land grant university
libraries.  An overview of the project will be presented, giving its
history and NAL's strategy for the future.

An in-depth discussion of NATDP will follow, including a description of
the scanning process, from the gathering of the printed materials to the
archiving of the electronic pages.  The type of equipment required for a
stand-alone scanning workstation and the importance of file management
software will be discussed.  Issues concerning the images themselves will
be addressed briefly, such as image format; black and white versus color;
gray scale versus dithering; and resolution.

Also described will be a study currently in progress by NAL to evaluate
the usefulness of converting microfilm to electronic images in order to
improve access.  With the cooperation of Tuskegee University, NAL has
selected three reels of microfilm from a collection of sixty-seven reels
containing the papers, letters, and drawings of George Washington Carver.
The three reels were converted into 3,500 electronic images using a
specialized microfilm scanner.  The selection, filming, and indexing of
this material will be discussed.

Donald WATERS

Project Open Book, the Yale University Library's effort to convert 10,
000 books from microfilm to digital imagery, is currently in an advanced
state of planning and organization.  The Yale Library has selected a
major vendor to serve as a partner in the project and as systems
integrator.  In its proposal, the successful vendor helped isolate areas
of risk and uncertainty as well as key issues to be addressed during the
life of the project.  The Yale Library is now poised to decide what
material it will convert to digital image form and to seek funding,
initially for the first phase and then for the entire project.

The proposal that Yale accepted for the implementation of Project Open
Book will provide at the end of three phases a conversion subsystem,
browsing stations distributed on the campus network within the Yale
Library, a subsystem for storing 10,000 books at 200 and 600 dots per
inch, and network access to the image printers.  Pricing for the system
implementation assumes the existence of Yale's campus ethernet network
and its high-speed image printers, and includes other requisite hardware
and software, as well as system integration services.  Proposed operating
costs include hardware and software maintenance, but do not include
estimates for the facilities management of the storage devices and image
servers.

Yale selected its vendor partner in a formal process, partly funded by
the Commission for Preservation and Access.  Following a request for
proposal, the Yale Library selected two vendors as finalists to work with
Yale staff to generate a detailed analysis of requirements for Project
Open Book.  Each vendor used the results of the requirements analysis to
generate and submit a formal proposal for the entire project.  This
competitive process not only enabled the Yale Library to select its
primary vendor partner but also revealed much about the state of the
imaging industry, about the varying, corporate commitments to the markets
for imaging technology, and about the varying organizational dynamics
through which major companies are responding to and seeking to develop
these markets.

Project Open Book is focused specifically on the conversion of images
from microfilm to digital form.  The technology for scanning microfilm is
readily available but is changing rapidly.  In its project requirements,
the Yale Library emphasized features of the technology that affect the
technical quality of digital image production and the costs of creating
and storing the image library:  What levels of digital resolution can be
achieved by scanning microfilm?  How does variation in the quality of
microfilm, particularly in film produced to preservation standards,
affect the quality of the digital images?  What technologies can an
operator effectively and economically apply when scanning film to
separate two-up images and to control for and correct image
imperfections?  How can quality control best be integrated into
digitizing work flow that includes document indexing and storage?

The actual and expected uses of digital images--storage, browsing,
printing, and OCR--help determine the standards for measuring their
quality.  Browsing is especially important, but the facilities available
for readers to browse image documents is perhaps the weakest aspect of
imaging technology and most in need of development.  As it defined its
requirements, the Yale Library concentrated on some fundamental aspects
of usability for image documents:  Does the system have sufficient
flexibility to handle the full range of document types, including
monographs, multi-part and multivolume sets, and serials, as well as
manuscript collections?  What conventions are necessary to identify a
document uniquely for storage and retrieval?  Where is the database of
record for storing bibliographic information about the image document?
How are basic internal structures of documents, such as pagination, made
accessible to the reader?  How are the image documents physically
presented on the screen to the reader?

The Yale Library designed Project Open Book on the assumption that
microfilm is more than adequate as a medium for preserving the content of
deteriorated library materials.  As planning in the project has advanced,
it is increasingly clear that the challenge of digital image technology
and the key to the success of efforts like Project Open Book is to
provide a means of both preserving and improving access to those
deteriorated materials.

SESSION IV-B

George THOMA

In the use of electronic imaging for document preservation, there are
several issues to consider, such as:  ensuring adequate image quality,
maintaining substantial conversion rates (through-put), providing unique
identification for automated access and retrieval, and accommodating
bound volumes and fragile material.

To maintain high image quality, image processing functions are required
to correct the deficiencies in the scanned image.  Some commercially
available systems include these functions, while some do not.  The
scanned raw image must be processed to correct contrast deficiencies--
both poor overall contrast resulting from light print and/or dark
background, and variable contrast resulting from stains and
bleed-through.  Furthermore, the scan density must be adequate to allow
legibility of print and sufficient fidelity in the pseudo-halftoned gray
material.  Borders or page-edge effects must be removed for both
compactibility and aesthetics.  Page skew must be corrected for aesthetic
reasons and to enable accurate character recognition if desired.
Compound images consisting of both two-toned text and gray-scale
illustrations must be processed appropriately to retain the quality of
each.

SESSION IV-C

Jean BARONAS

Standards publications being developed by scientists, engineers, and
business managers in Association for Information and Image Management
(AIIM) standards committees can be applied to electronic image management
(EIM) processes including:  document (image) transfer, retrieval and
evaluation; optical disk and document scanning; and document design and
conversion.  When combined with EIM system planning and operations,
standards can assist in generating image databases that are
interchangeable among a variety of systems.  The applications of
different approaches for image-tagging, indexing, compression, and
transfer often cause uncertainty concerning EIM system compatibility,
calibration, performance, and upward compatibility, until standard
implementation parameters are established.  The AIIM standards that are
being developed for these applications can be used to decrease the
uncertainty, successfully integrate imaging processes, and promote "open
systems."  AIIM is an accredited American National Standards Institute
(ANSI) standards developer with more than twenty committees comprised of
300 volunteers representing users, vendors, and manufacturers.  The
standards publications that are developed in these committees have
national acceptance and provide the basis for international harmonization
in the development of new International Organization for Standardization
(ISO) standards.

This presentation describes the development of AIIM's EIM standards and a
new effort at AIIM, a database on standards projects in a wide framework
of imaging industries including capture, recording, processing,
duplication, distribution, display, evaluation, and preservation.  The
AIIM Imagery Database will cover imaging standards being developed by
many organizations in many different countries.  It will contain
standards publications' dates, origins, related national and
international projects, status, key words, and abstracts.  The ANSI Image
Technology Standards Board requested that such a database be established,
as did the ISO/International Electrotechnical Commission Joint Task Force
on Imagery.  AIIM will take on the leadership role for the database and
coordinate its development with several standards developers.

Patricia BATTIN

     Characteristics of standards for digital imagery:

          * Nature of digital technology implies continuing volatility.

          * Precipitous standard-setting not possible and probably not
          desirable.

          * Standards are a complex issue involving the medium, the
          hardware, the software, and the technical capacity for
          reproductive fidelity and clarity.

          * The prognosis for reliable archival standards (as defined by
          librarians) in the foreseeable future is poor.

     Significant potential and attractiveness of digital technology as a
     preservation medium and access mechanism.

     Productive use of digital imagery for preservation requires a
     reconceptualizing of preservation principles in a volatile,
     standardless world.

     Concept of managing continuing access in the digital environment
     rather than focusing on the permanence of the medium and long-term
     archival standards developed for the analog world.

     Transition period:  How long and what to do?

          *  Redefine "archival."

          *  Remove the burden of "archival copy" from paper artifacts.

          *  Use digital technology for storage, develop management
          strategies for refreshing medium, hardware and software.

          *  Create acid-free paper copies for transition period backup
          until we develop reliable procedures for ensuring continuing
          access to digital files.

SESSION IV-D

Stuart WEIBEL            The Role of SGML Markup in the CORE Project (6)

The emergence of high-speed telecommunications networks as a basic
feature of the scholarly workplace is driving the demand for electronic
document delivery.  Three distinct categories of electronic
publishing/republishing are necessary to support access demands in this
emerging environment:

     1.)  Conversion of paper or microfilm archives to electronic format
     2.)  Conversion of electronic files to formats tailored to
          electronic retrieval and display
     3.)  Primary electronic publishing (materials for which the
          electronic version is the primary format)

OCLC has experimental or product development activities in each of these
areas.  Among the challenges that lie ahead is the integration of these
three types of information stores in coherent distributed systems.

The CORE (Chemistry Online Retrieval Experiment) Project is a model for
the conversion of large text and graphics collections for which
electronic typesetting files are available (category 2).  The American
Chemical Society has made available computer typography files dating from
1980 for its twenty journals.  This collection of some 250 journal-years
is being converted to an electronic format that will be accessible
through several end-user applications.

The use of Standard Generalized Markup Language (SGML) offers the means
to capture the structural richness of the original articles in a way that
will support a variety of retrieval, navigation, and display options
necessary to navigate effectively in very large text databases.

An SGML document consists of text that is marked up with descriptive tags
that specify the function of a given element within the document.  As a
formal language construct, an SGML document can be parsed against a
document-type definition (DTD) that unambiguously defines what elements
are allowed and where in the document they can (or must) occur.  This
formalized map of article structure allows the user interface design to
be uncoupled from the underlying database system, an important step
toward interoperability.  Demonstration of this separability is a part of
the CORE project, wherein user interface designs born of very different
philosophies will access the same database.

NOTES:
     (6)  The CORE project is a collaboration among Cornell University's
     Mann Library, Bell Communications Research (Bellcore), the American
     Chemical Society (ACS), the Chemical Abstracts Service (CAS), and
     OCLC.

Michael LESK                  The CORE Electronic Chemistry Library

A major on-line file of chemical journal literature complete with
graphics is being developed to test the usability of fully electronic
access to documents, as a joint project of Cornell University, the
American Chemical Society, the Chemical Abstracts Service, OCLC, and
Bellcore (with additional support from Sun Microsystems, Springer-Verlag,
DigitaI Equipment Corporation, Sony Corporation of America, and Apple
Computers).  Our file contains the American Chemical Society's on-line
journals, supplemented with the graphics from the paper publication.  The
indexing of the articles from Chemical Abstracts Documents is available
in both image and text format, and several different interfaces can be
used.  Our goals are (1) to assess the effectiveness and acceptability of
electronic access to primary journals as compared with paper, and (2) to
identify the most desirable functions of the user interface to an
electronic system of journals, including in particular a comparison of
page-image display with ASCII display interfaces.  Early experiments with
chemistry students on a variety of tasks suggest that searching tasks are
completed much faster with any electronic system than with paper, but
that for reading all versions of the articles are roughly equivalent.

Pamela ANDRE and Judith ZIDAR

Text conversion is far more expensive and time-consuming than image
capture alone.  NAL's experience with optical character recognition (OCR)
will be related and compared with the experience of having text rekeyed.
What factors affect OCR accuracy?  How accurate does full text have to be
in order to be useful?  How do different users react to imperfect text?
These are questions that will be explored.  For many, a service bureau
may be a better solution than performing the work inhouse; this will also
be discussed.

SESSION VI

Marybeth PETERS

Copyright law protects creative works.  Protection granted by the law to
authors and disseminators of works includes the right to do or authorize
the following:  reproduce the work, prepare derivative works, distribute
the work to the public, and publicly perform or display the work.  In
addition, copyright owners of sound recordings and computer programs have
the right to control rental of their works.  These rights are not
unlimited; there are a number of exceptions and limitations.

An electronic environment places strains on the copyright system.
Copyright owners want to control uses of their work and be paid for any
use; the public wants quick and easy access at little or no cost.  The
marketplace is working in this area.  Contracts, guidelines on electronic
use, and collective licensing are in use and being refined.

Issues concerning the ability to change works without detection are more
difficult to deal with.  Questions concerning the integrity of the work
and the status of the changed version under the copyright law are to be
addressed.  These are public policy issues which require informed
dialogue.


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                Appendix III:  DIRECTORY OF PARTICIPANTS


PRESENTERS:

     Pamela Q.J. Andre
     Associate Director, Automation
     National Agricultural Library
     10301 Baltimore Boulevard
     Beltsville, MD 20705-2351
     Phone:  (301) 504-6813
     Fax:  (301) 504-7473
     E-mail:  INTERNET:  PANDRE@ASRR.ARSUSDA.GOV

     Jean Baronas, Senior Manager
     Department of Standards and Technology
     Association for Information and Image Management (AIIM)
     1100 Wayne Avenue, Suite 1100
     Silver Spring, MD 20910
     Phone:  (301) 587-8202
     Fax:  (301) 587-2711

     Patricia Battin, President
     The Commission on Preservation and Access
     1400 16th Street, N.W.
     Suite 740
     Washington, DC 20036-2217
     Phone:  (202) 939-3400
     Fax:  (202) 939-3407
     E-mail:  CPA@GWUVM.BITNET

     Howard Besser
     Centre Canadien d'Architecture
     (Canadian Center for Architecture)
     1920, rue Baile
     Montreal, Quebec H3H 2S6
     CANADA
     Phone:  (514) 939-7001
     Fax:  (514) 939-7020
     E-mail:  howard@lis.pitt.edu

     Edwin B. Brownrigg, Executive Director
     Memex Research Institute
     422 Bonita Avenue
     Roseville, CA 95678
     Phone:  (916) 784-2298
     Fax:  (916) 786-7559
     E-mail:  BITNET:  MEMEX@CALSTATE.2

     Eric M. Calaluca, Vice President
     Chadwyck-Healey, Inc.
     1101 King Street
     Alexandria, VA 223l4
     Phone:  (800) 752-05l5
     Fax:  (703) 683-7589

     James Daly
     4015 Deepwood Road
     Baltimore, MD 21218-1404
     Phone:  (410) 235-0763

     Ricky Erway, Associate Coordinator
     American Memory
     Library of Congress
     Phone:  (202) 707-6233
     Fax:  (202) 707-3764

     Carl Fleischhauer, Coordinator
     American Memory
     Library of Congress
     Phone:  (202) 707-6233
     Fax:  (202) 707-3764

     Joanne Freeman
     2000 Jefferson Park Avenue, No. 7
     Charlottesville, VA  22903

     Prosser Gifford
     Director for Scholarly Programs
     Library of Congress
     Phone:  (202) 707-1517
     Fax:  (202) 707-9898
     E-mail:  pgif@seq1.loc.gov

     Jacqueline Hess, Director
     National Demonstration Laboratory
       for Interactive Information Technologies
     Library of Congress
     Phone:  (202) 707-4157
     Fax:  (202) 707-2829

     Susan Hockey, Director
     Center for Electronic Texts in the Humanities (CETH)
     Alexander Library
     Rutgers University
     169 College Avenue
     New Brunswick, NJ 08903
     Phone:  (908) 932-1384
     Fax:  (908) 932-1386
     E-mail:  hockey@zodiac.rutgers.edu

     William L. Hooton, Vice President
     Business & Technical Development
       Imaging & Information Systems Group
     I-NET
     6430 Rockledge Drive, Suite 400
     Bethesda, MD 208l7
     Phone:  (301) 564-6750
     Fax:  (513) 564-6867

     Anne R. Kenney, Associate Director
     Department of Preservation and Conservation
     701 Olin Library
     Cornell University
     Ithaca, NY 14853
     Phone:  (607) 255-6875
     Fax:  (607) 255-9346
     E-mail:  LYDY@CORNELLA.BITNET

     Ronald L. Larsen
     Associate Director for Information Technology
     University of Maryland at College Park
     Room B0224, McKeldin Library
     College Park, MD 20742-7011
     Phone:  (301) 405-9194
     Fax:  (301) 314-9865
     E-mail:  rlarsen@libr.umd.edu

     Maria L. Lebron, Managing Editor
     The Online Journal of Current Clinical Trials
     l333 H Street, N.W.
     Washington, DC 20005
     Phone:  (202) 326-6735
     Fax:  (202) 842-2868
     E-mail:  PUBSAAAS@GWUVM.BITNET

     Michael Lesk, Executive Director
     Computer Science Research
     Bell Communications Research, Inc.
     Rm 2A-385
     445 South Street
     Morristown, NJ 07960-l9l0
     Phone:  (201) 829-4070
     Fax:  (201) 829-5981
     E-mail:  lesk@bellcore.com (Internet) or bellcore!lesk (uucp)

     Clifford A. Lynch
     Director, Library Automation
     University of California,
        Office of the President
     300 Lakeside Drive, 8th Floor
     Oakland, CA 94612-3350
     Phone:  (510) 987-0522
     Fax:  (510) 839-3573
     E-mail:  calur@uccmvsa

     Avra Michelson
     National Archives and Records Administration
     NSZ Rm. 14N
     7th & Pennsylvania, N.W.
     Washington, D.C. 20408
     Phone:  (202) 501-5544
     Fax:  (202) 501-5533
     E-mail:  tmi@cu.nih.gov

     Elli Mylonas, Managing Editor
     Perseus Project
     Department of the Classics
     Harvard University
     319 Boylston Hall
     Cambridge, MA 02138
     Phone:  (617) 495-9025, (617) 495-0456 (direct)
     Fax:  (617) 496-8886
     E-mail:  Elli@IKAROS.Harvard.EDU or elli@wjh12.harvard.edu

     David Woodley Packard
     Packard Humanities Institute
     300 Second Street, Suite 201
     Los Altos, CA 94002
     Phone:  (415) 948-0150 (PHI)
     Fax:  (415) 948-5793

     Lynne K. Personius, Assistant Director
     Cornell Information Technologies for
      Scholarly Information Sources
     502 Olin Library
     Cornell University
     Ithaca, NY 14853
     Phone:  (607) 255-3393
     Fax:  (607) 255-9346
     E-mail:  JRN@CORNELLC.BITNET

     Marybeth Peters
     Policy Planning Adviser to the
       Register of Copyrights
     Library of Congress
     Office LM 403
     Phone:  (202) 707-8350
     Fax:  (202) 707-8366

     C. Michael Sperberg-McQueen
     Editor, Text Encoding Initiative
     Computer Center (M/C 135)
     University of Illinois at Chicago
     Box 6998
     Chicago, IL 60680
     Phone:  (312) 413-0317
     Fax:  (312) 996-6834
     E-mail:  u35395@uicvm..cc.uic.edu or u35395@uicvm.bitnet

     George R. Thoma, Chief
     Communications Engineering Branch
     National Library of Medicine
     8600 Rockville Pike
     Bethesda, MD 20894
     Phone:  (301) 496-4496
     Fax:  (301) 402-0341
     E-mail:  thoma@lhc.nlm.nih.gov

     Dorothy Twohig, Editor
     The Papers of George Washington
     504 Alderman Library
     University of Virginia
     Charlottesville, VA 22903-2498
     Phone:  (804) 924-0523
     Fax:  (804) 924-4337

     Susan H. Veccia, Team leader
     American Memory, User Evaluation
     Library of Congress
     American Memory Evaluation Project
     Phone:  (202) 707-9104
     Fax:  (202) 707-3764
     E-mail:  svec@seq1.loc.gov

     Donald J. Waters, Head
     Systems Office
     Yale University Library
     New Haven, CT 06520
     Phone:  (203) 432-4889
     Fax:  (203) 432-7231
     E-mail:  DWATERS@YALEVM.BITNET or DWATERS@YALEVM.YCC.YALE.EDU

     Stuart Weibel, Senior Research Scientist
     OCLC
     6565 Frantz Road
     Dublin, OH 43017
     Phone:  (614) 764-608l
     Fax:  (614) 764-2344
     E-mail:  INTERNET:  Stu@rsch.oclc.org

     Robert G. Zich
     Special Assistant to the Associate Librarian
       for Special Projects
     Library of Congress
     Phone:  (202) 707-6233
     Fax:  (202) 707-3764
     E-mail:  rzic@seq1.loc.gov

     Judith A. Zidar, Coordinator
     National Agricultural Text Digitizing Program
     Information Systems Division
     National Agricultural Library
     10301 Baltimore Boulevard
     Beltsville, MD 20705-2351
     Phone:  (301) 504-6813 or 504-5853
     Fax:  (301) 504-7473
     E-mail:  INTERNET:  JZIDAR@ASRR.ARSUSDA.GOV


OBSERVERS:

     Helen Aguera, Program Officer
     Division of Research
     Room 318
     National Endowment for the Humanities
     1100 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.
     Washington, D.C. 20506
     Phone:  (202) 786-0358
     Fax:  (202) 786-0243

     M. Ellyn Blanton, Deputy Director
     National Demonstration Laboratory
       for Interactive Information Technologies
     Library of Congress
     Phone:  (202) 707-4157
     Fax:  (202) 707-2829

     Charles M. Dollar
     National Archives and Records Administration
     NSZ Rm. 14N
     7th & Pennsylvania, N.W.
     Washington, DC 20408
     Phone:  (202) 501-5532
     Fax:  (202) 501-5512

     Jeffrey Field, Deputy to the Director
     Division of Preservation and Access
     Room 802
     National Endowment for the Humanities
     1100 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.
     Washington, DC 20506
     Phone:  (202) 786-0570
     Fax:  (202) 786-0243

     Lorrin Garson
     American Chemical Society
     Research and Development Department
     1155 16th Street, N.W.
     Washington, D.C. 20036
     Phone:  (202) 872-4541
     Fax:  E-mail:  INTERNET:  LRG96@ACS.ORG

     William M. Holmes, Jr.
     National Archives and Records Administration
     NSZ Rm. 14N
     7th & Pennsylvania, N.W.
     Washington, DC 20408
     Phone:  (202) 501-5540
     Fax:  (202) 501-5512
     E-mail:  WHOLMES@AMERICAN.EDU

     Sperling Martin
     Information Resource Management
     20030 Doolittle Street
     Gaithersburg, MD 20879
     Phone:  (301) 924-1803

     Michael Neuman, Director
     The Center for Text and Technology
     Academic Computing Center
     238 Reiss Science Building
     Georgetown University
     Washington, DC 20057
     Phone:  (202) 687-6096
     Fax:  (202) 687-6003
     E-mail:  neuman@guvax.bitnet, neuman@guvax.georgetown.edu

     Barbara Paulson, Program Officer
     Division of Preservation and Access
     Room 802
     National Endowment for the Humanities
     1100 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.
     Washington, DC 20506
     Phone:  (202) 786-0577
     Fax:  (202) 786-0243

     Allen H. Renear
     Senior Academic Planning Analyst
     Brown University Computing and Information Services
     115 Waterman Street
     Campus Box 1885
     Providence, R.I. 02912
     Phone:  (401) 863-7312
     Fax:  (401) 863-7329
     E-mail:  BITNET:  Allen@BROWNVM or
     INTERNET:  Allen@brownvm.brown.edu

     Susan M. Severtson, President
     Chadwyck-Healey, Inc.
     1101 King Street
     Alexandria, VA 223l4
     Phone:  (800) 752-05l5
     Fax:  (703) 683-7589

     Frank Withrow
     U.S. Department of Education
     555 New Jersey Avenue, N.W.
     Washington, DC 20208-5644
     Phone:  (202) 219-2200
     Fax:  (202) 219-2106


(LC STAFF)

     Linda L. Arret
     Machine-Readable Collections Reading Room LJ 132
     (202) 707-1490

     John D. Byrum, Jr.
     Descriptive Cataloging Division LM 540
     (202) 707-5194

     Mary Jane Cavallo
     Science and Technology Division LA 5210
     (202) 707-1219

     Susan Thea David
     Congressional Research Service LM 226
     (202) 707-7169

     Robert Dierker
     Senior Adviser for Multimedia Activities LM 608
     (202) 707-6151

     William W. Ellis
     Associate Librarian for Science and Technology LM 611
     (202) 707-6928

     Ronald Gephart
     Manuscript Division LM 102
     (202) 707-5097

     James Graber
     Information Technology Services LM G51
     (202) 707-9628

     Rich Greenfield
     American Memory LM 603
     (202) 707-6233

     Rebecca Guenther
     Network Development LM 639
     (202) 707-5092

     Kenneth E. Harris
     Preservation LM G21
     (202) 707-5213

     Staley Hitchcock
     Manuscript Division LM 102
     (202) 707-5383

     Bohdan Kantor
     Office of Special Projects LM 612
     (202) 707-0180

     John W. Kimball, Jr
     Machine-Readable Collections Reading Room LJ 132
     (202) 707-6560

     Basil Manns
     Information Technology Services LM G51
     (202) 707-8345

     Sally Hart McCallum
     Network Development LM 639
     (202) 707-6237

     Dana J. Pratt
     Publishing Office LM 602
     (202) 707-6027

     Jane Riefenhauser
     American Memory LM 603
     (202) 707-6233

     William Z. Schenck
     Collections Development LM 650
     (202) 707-7706

     Chandru J. Shahani
     Preservation Research and Testing Office (R&T) LM G38
     (202) 707-5607

     William J. Sittig
     Collections Development LM 650
     (202) 707-7050

     Paul Smith
     Manuscript Division LM 102
     (202) 707-5097

     James L. Stevens
     Information Technology Services LM G51
     (202) 707-9688

     Karen Stuart
     Manuscript Division LM 130
     (202) 707-5389

     Tamara Swora
     Preservation Microfilming Office LM G05
     (202) 707-6293

     Sarah Thomas
     Collections Cataloging LM 642
     (202) 707-5333


                                   END
      *************************************************************

Note:  This file has been edited for use on computer networks.  This
editing required the removal of diacritics, underlining, and fonts such
as italics and bold.

kde 11/92

[A few of the italics (when used for emphasis) were replaced by CAPS mh]

*End of The Project Gutenberg Etext of LOC WORKSHOP ON ELECTRONIC ETEXTS


This is the February 1992 Project Gutenberg release of:

Paradise Lost by John Milton

The oldest etext known to Project Gutenberg (ca. 1964-1965)
(If you know of any older ones, please let us know.)


Introduction  (one page)

This etext was originally created in 1964-1965 according to Dr.
Joseph Raben of Queens College, NY, to whom it is attributed by
Project Gutenberg.  We had heard of this etext for years but it
was not until 1991 that we actually managed to track it down to
a specific location, and then it took months to convince people
to let us have a copy, then more months for them actually to do
the copying and get it to us.  Then another month to convert to
something we could massage with our favorite 486 in DOS.  After
that is was only a matter of days to get it into this shape you
will see below.  The original was, of course, in CAPS only, and
so were all the other etexts of the 60's and early 70's.  Don't
let anyone fool you into thinking any etext with both upper and
lower case is an original; all those original Project Gutenberg
etexts were also in upper case and were translated or rewritten
many times to get them into their current condition.  They have
been worked on by many people throughout the world.

In the course of our searches for Professor Raben and his etext
we were never able to determine where copies were or which of a
variety of editions he may have used as a source.  We did get a
little information here and there, but even after we received a
copy of the etext we were unwilling to release it without first
determining that it was in fact Public Domain and finding Raben
to verify this and get his permission.  Interested enough, in a
totally unrelated action to our searches for him, the professor
subscribed to the Project Gutenberg listserver and we happened,
by accident, to notice his name. (We don't really look at every
subscription request as the computers usually handle them.) The
etext was then properly identified, copyright analyzed, and the
current edition prepared.

To give you an estimation of the difference in the original and
what we have today:  the original was probably entered on cards
commonly known at the time as "IBM cards" (Do Not Fold, Spindle
or Mutilate) and probably took in excess of 100,000 of them.  A
single card could hold 80 characters (hence 80 characters is an
accepted standard for so many computer margins), and the entire
original edition we received in all caps was over 800,000 chars
in length, including line enumeration, symbols for caps and the
punctuation marks, etc., since they were not available keyboard
characters at the time (probably the keyboards operated at baud
rates of around 113, meaning the typists had to type slowly for
the keyboard to keep up).

This is the second version of Paradise Lost released by Project
Gutenberg.  The first was released as our October, 1991 etext.





Paradise Lost




Book I


Of Man's first disobedience, and the fruit
Of that forbidden tree whose mortal taste
Brought death into the World, and all our woe,
With loss of Eden, till one greater Man
Restore us, and regain the blissful seat,
Sing, Heavenly Muse, that, on the secret top
Of Oreb, or of Sinai, didst inspire
That shepherd who first taught the chosen seed
In the beginning how the heavens and earth
Rose out of Chaos: or, if Sion hill
Delight thee more, and Siloa's brook that flowed
Fast by the oracle of God, I thence
Invoke thy aid to my adventurous song,
That with no middle flight intends to soar
Above th' Aonian mount, while it pursues
Things unattempted yet in prose or rhyme.
And chiefly thou, O Spirit, that dost prefer
Before all temples th' upright heart and pure,
Instruct me, for thou know'st; thou from the first
Wast present, and, with mighty wings outspread,
Dove-like sat'st brooding on the vast Abyss,
And mad'st it pregnant: what in me is dark
Illumine, what is low raise and support;
That, to the height of this great argument,
I may assert Eternal Providence,
And justify the ways of God to men.
  Say first--for Heaven hides nothing from thy view,
Nor the deep tract of Hell--say first what cause
Moved our grand parents, in that happy state,
Favoured of Heaven so highly, to fall off
From their Creator, and transgress his will
For one restraint, lords of the World besides.
Who first seduced them to that foul revolt?
  Th' infernal Serpent; he it was whose guile,
Stirred up with envy and revenge, deceived
The mother of mankind, what time his pride
Had cast him out from Heaven, with all his host
Of rebel Angels, by whose aid, aspiring
To set himself in glory above his peers,
He trusted to have equalled the Most High,
If he opposed, and with ambitious aim
Against the throne and monarchy of God,
Raised impious war in Heaven and battle proud,
With vain attempt. Him the Almighty Power
Hurled headlong flaming from th' ethereal sky,
With hideous ruin and combustion, down
To bottomless perdition, there to dwell
In adamantine chains and penal fire,
Who durst defy th' Omnipotent to arms.
  Nine times the space that measures day and night
To mortal men, he, with his horrid crew,
Lay vanquished, rolling in the fiery gulf,
Confounded, though immortal. But his doom
Reserved him to more wrath; for now the thought
Both of lost happiness and lasting pain
Torments him: round he throws his baleful eyes,
That witnessed huge affliction and dismay,
Mixed with obdurate pride and steadfast hate.
At once, as far as Angels ken, he views
The dismal situation waste and wild.
A dungeon horrible, on all sides round,
As one great furnace flamed; yet from those flames
No light; but rather darkness visible
Served only to discover sights of woe,
Regions of sorrow, doleful shades, where peace
And rest can never dwell, hope never comes
That comes to all, but torture without end
Still urges, and a fiery deluge, fed
With ever-burning sulphur unconsumed.
Such place Eternal Justice has prepared
For those rebellious; here their prison ordained
In utter darkness, and their portion set,
As far removed from God and light of Heaven
As from the centre thrice to th' utmost pole.
Oh how unlike the place from whence they fell!
There the companions of his fall, o'erwhelmed
With floods and whirlwinds of tempestuous fire,
He soon discerns; and, weltering by his side,
One next himself in power, and next in crime,
Long after known in Palestine, and named
Beelzebub. To whom th' Arch-Enemy,
And thence in Heaven called Satan, with bold words
Breaking the horrid silence, thus began:--
  "If thou beest he--but O how fallen! how changed
From him who, in the happy realms of light
Clothed with transcendent brightness, didst outshine
Myriads, though bright!--if he whom mutual league,
United thoughts and counsels, equal hope
And hazard in the glorious enterprise
Joined with me once, now misery hath joined
In equal ruin; into what pit thou seest
From what height fallen: so much the stronger proved
He with his thunder; and till then who knew
The force of those dire arms? Yet not for those,
Nor what the potent Victor in his rage
Can else inflict, do I repent, or change,
Though changed in outward lustre, that fixed mind,
And high disdain from sense of injured merit,
That with the Mightiest raised me to contend,
And to the fierce contentions brought along
Innumerable force of Spirits armed,
That durst dislike his reign, and, me preferring,
His utmost power with adverse power opposed
In dubious battle on the plains of Heaven,
And shook his throne. What though the field be lost?
All is not lost--the unconquerable will,
And study of revenge, immortal hate,
And courage never to submit or yield:
And what is else not to be overcome?
That glory never shall his wrath or might
Extort from me. To bow and sue for grace
With suppliant knee, and deify his power
Who, from the terror of this arm, so late
Doubted his empire--that were low indeed;
That were an ignominy and shame beneath
This downfall; since, by fate, the strength of Gods,
And this empyreal sybstance, cannot fail;
Since, through experience of this great event,
In arms not worse, in foresight much advanced,
We may with more successful hope resolve
To wage by force or guile eternal war,
Irreconcilable to our grand Foe,
Who now triumphs, and in th' excess of joy
Sole reigning holds the tyranny of Heaven."
  So spake th' apostate Angel, though in pain,
Vaunting aloud, but racked with deep despair;
And him thus answered soon his bold compeer:--
  "O Prince, O Chief of many throned Powers
That led th' embattled Seraphim to war
Under thy conduct, and, in dreadful deeds
Fearless, endangered Heaven's perpetual King,
And put to proof his high supremacy,
Whether upheld by strength, or chance, or fate,
Too well I see and rue the dire event
That, with sad overthrow and foul defeat,
Hath lost us Heaven, and all this mighty host
In horrible destruction laid thus low,
As far as Gods and heavenly Essences
Can perish: for the mind and spirit remains
Invincible, and vigour soon returns,
Though all our glory extinct, and happy state
Here swallowed up in endless misery.
But what if he our Conqueror (whom I now
Of force believe almighty, since no less
Than such could have o'erpowered such force as ours)
Have left us this our spirit and strength entire,
Strongly to suffer and support our pains,
That we may so suffice his vengeful ire,
Or do him mightier service as his thralls
By right of war, whate'er his business be,
Here in the heart of Hell to work in fire,
Or do his errands in the gloomy Deep?
What can it the avail though yet we feel
Strength undiminished, or eternal being
To undergo eternal punishment?"
  Whereto with speedy words th' Arch-Fiend replied:--
"Fallen Cherub, to be weak is miserable,
Doing or suffering: but of this be sure--
To do aught good never will be our task,
But ever to do ill our sole delight,
As being the contrary to his high will
Whom we resist. If then his providence
Out of our evil seek to bring forth good,
Our labour must be to pervert that end,
And out of good still to find means of evil;
Which ofttimes may succeed so as perhaps
Shall grieve him, if I fail not, and disturb
His inmost counsels from their destined aim.
But see! the angry Victor hath recalled
His ministers of vengeance and pursuit
Back to the gates of Heaven: the sulphurous hail,
Shot after us in storm, o'erblown hath laid
The fiery surge that from the precipice
Of Heaven received us falling; and the thunder,
Winged with red lightning and impetuous rage,
Perhaps hath spent his shafts, and ceases now
To bellow through the vast and boundless Deep.
Let us not slip th' occasion, whether scorn
Or satiate fury yield it from our Foe.
Seest thou yon dreary plain, forlorn and wild,
The seat of desolation, void of light,
Save what the glimmering of these livid flames
Casts pale and dreadful? Thither let us tend
From off the tossing of these fiery waves;
There rest, if any rest can harbour there;
And, re-assembling our afflicted powers,
Consult how we may henceforth most offend
Our enemy, our own loss how repair,
How overcome this dire calamity,
What reinforcement we may gain from hope,
If not, what resolution from despair."
  Thus Satan, talking to his nearest mate,
With head uplift above the wave, and eyes
That sparkling blazed; his other parts besides
Prone on the flood, extended long and large,
Lay floating many a rood, in bulk as huge
As whom the fables name of monstrous size,
Titanian or Earth-born, that warred on Jove,
Briareos or Typhon, whom the den
By ancient Tarsus held, or that sea-beast
Leviathan, which God of all his works
Created hugest that swim th' ocean-stream.
Him, haply slumbering on the Norway foam,
The pilot of some small night-foundered skiff,
Deeming some island, oft, as seamen tell,
With fixed anchor in his scaly rind,
Moors by his side under the lee, while night
Invests the sea, and wished morn delays.
So stretched out huge in length the Arch-fiend lay,
Chained on the burning lake; nor ever thence
Had risen, or heaved his head, but that the will
And high permission of all-ruling Heaven
Left him at large to his own dark designs,
That with reiterated crimes he might
Heap on himself damnation, while he sought
Evil to others, and enraged might see
How all his malice served but to bring forth
Infinite goodness, grace, and mercy, shewn
On Man by him seduced, but on himself
Treble confusion, wrath, and vengeance poured.
  Forthwith upright he rears from off the pool
His mighty stature; on each hand the flames
Driven backward slope their pointing spires, and,rolled
In billows, leave i' th' midst a horrid vale.
Then with expanded wings he steers his flight
Aloft, incumbent on the dusky air,
That felt unusual weight; till on dry land
He lights--if it were land that ever burned
With solid, as the lake with liquid fire,
And such appeared in hue as when the force
Of subterranean wind transprots a hill
Torn from Pelorus, or the shattered side
Of thundering Etna, whose combustible
And fuelled entrails, thence conceiving fire,
Sublimed with mineral fury, aid the winds,
And leave a singed bottom all involved
With stench and smoke. Such resting found the sole
Of unblest feet. Him followed his next mate;
Both glorying to have scaped the Stygian flood
As gods, and by their own recovered strength,
Not by the sufferance of supernal Power.
  "Is this the region, this the soil, the clime,"
Said then the lost Archangel, "this the seat
That we must change for Heaven?--this mournful gloom
For that celestial light? Be it so, since he
Who now is sovereign can dispose and bid
What shall be right: farthest from him is best
Whom reason hath equalled, force hath made supreme
Above his equals. Farewell, happy fields,
Where joy for ever dwells! Hail, horrors! hail,
Infernal world! and thou, profoundest Hell,
Receive thy new possessor--one who brings
A mind not to be changed by place or time.
The mind is its own place, and in itself
Can make a Heaven of Hell, a Hell of Heaven.
What matter where, if I be still the same,
And what I should be, all but less than he
Whom thunder hath made greater? Here at least
We shall be free; th' Almighty hath not built
Here for his envy, will not drive us hence:
Here we may reigh secure; and, in my choice,
To reign is worth ambition, though in Hell:
Better to reign in Hell than serve in Heaven.
But wherefore let we then our faithful friends,
Th' associates and co-partners of our loss,
Lie thus astonished on th' oblivious pool,
And call them not to share with us their part
In this unhappy mansion, or once more
With rallied arms to try what may be yet
Regained in Heaven, or what more lost in Hell?"
  So Satan spake; and him Beelzebub
Thus answered:--"Leader of those armies bright
Which, but th' Omnipotent, none could have foiled!
If once they hear that voice, their liveliest pledge
Of hope in fears and dangers--heard so oft
In worst extremes, and on the perilous edge
Of battle, when it raged, in all assaults
Their surest signal--they will soon resume
New courage and revive, though now they lie
Grovelling and prostrate on yon lake of fire,
As we erewhile, astounded and amazed;
No wonder, fallen such a pernicious height!"
  He scare had ceased when the superior Fiend
Was moving toward the shore; his ponderous shield,
Ethereal temper, massy, large, and round,
Behind him cast. The broad circumference
Hung on his shoulders like the moon, whose orb
Through optic glass the Tuscan artist views
At evening, from the top of Fesole,
Or in Valdarno, to descry new lands,
Rivers, or mountains, in her spotty globe.
His spear--to equal which the tallest pine
Hewn on Norwegian hills, to be the mast
Of some great ammiral, were but a wand--
He walked with, to support uneasy steps
Over the burning marl, not like those steps
On Heaven's azure; and the torrid clime
Smote on him sore besides, vaulted with fire.
Nathless he so endured, till on the beach
Of that inflamed sea he stood, and called
His legions--Angel Forms, who lay entranced
Thick as autumnal leaves that strow the brooks
In Vallombrosa, where th' Etrurian shades
High over-arched embower; or scattered sedge
Afloat, when with fierce winds Orion armed
Hath vexed the Red-Sea coast, whose waves o'erthrew
Busiris and his Memphian chivalry,
While with perfidious hatred they pursued
The sojourners of Goshen, who beheld
From the safe shore their floating carcases
And broken chariot-wheels. So thick bestrown,
Abject and lost, lay these, covering the flood,
Under amazement of their hideous change.
He called so loud that all the hollow deep
Of Hell resounded:--"Princes, Potentates,
Warriors, the Flower of Heaven--once yours; now lost,
If such astonishment as this can seize
Eternal Spirits! Or have ye chosen this place
After the toil of battle to repose
Your wearied virtue, for the ease you find
To slumber here, as in the vales of Heaven?
Or in this abject posture have ye sworn
To adore the Conqueror, who now beholds
Cherub and Seraph rolling in the flood
With scattered arms and ensigns, till anon
His swift pursuers from Heaven-gates discern
Th' advantage, and, descending, tread us down
Thus drooping, or with linked thunderbolts
Transfix us to the bottom of this gulf?
Awake, arise, or be for ever fallen!"
  They heard, and were abashed, and up they sprung
Upon the wing, as when men wont to watch
On duty, sleeping found by whom they dread,
Rouse and bestir themselves ere well awake.
Nor did they not perceive the evil plight
In which they were, or the fierce pains not feel;
Yet to their General's voice they soon obeyed
Innumerable. As when the potent rod
Of Amram's son, in Egypt's evil day,
Waved round the coast, up-called a pitchy cloud
Of locusts, warping on the eastern wind,
That o'er the realm of impious Pharaoh hung
Like Night, and darkened all the land of Nile;
So numberless were those bad Angels seen
Hovering on wing under the cope of Hell,
'Twixt upper, nether, and surrounding fires;
Till, as a signal given, th' uplifted spear
Of their great Sultan waving to direct
Their course, in even balance down they light
On the firm brimstone, and fill all the plain:
A multitude like which the populous North
Poured never from her frozen loins to pass
Rhene or the Danaw, when her barbarous sons
Came like a deluge on the South, and spread
Beneath Gibraltar to the Libyan sands.
Forthwith, form every squadron and each band,
The heads and leaders thither haste where stood
Their great Commander--godlike Shapes, and Forms
Excelling human; princely Dignities;
And Powers that erst in Heaven sat on thrones,
Though on their names in Heavenly records now
Be no memorial, blotted out and rased
By their rebellion from the Books of Life.
Nor had they yet among the sons of Eve
Got them new names, till, wandering o'er the earth,
Through God's high sufferance for the trial of man,
By falsities and lies the greatest part
Of mankind they corrupted to forsake
God their Creator, and th' invisible
Glory of him that made them to transform
Oft to the image of a brute, adorned
With gay religions full of pomp and gold,
And devils to adore for deities:
Then were they known to men by various names,
And various idols through the heathen world.
  Say, Muse, their names then known, who first, who last,
Roused from the slumber on that fiery couch,
At their great Emperor's call, as next in worth
Came singly where he stood on the bare strand,
While the promiscuous crowd stood yet aloof?
  The chief were those who, from the pit of Hell
Roaming to seek their prey on Earth, durst fix
Their seats, long after, next the seat of God,
Their altars by his altar, gods adored
Among the nations round, and durst abide
Jehovah thundering out of Sion, throned
Between the Cherubim; yea, often placed
Within his sanctuary itself their shrines,
Abominations; and with cursed things
His holy rites and solemn feasts profaned,
And with their darkness durst affront his light.
First, Moloch, horrid king, besmeared with blood
Of human sacrifice, and parents' tears;
Though, for the noise of drums and timbrels loud,
Their children's cries unheard that passed through fire
To his grim idol. Him the Ammonite
Worshiped in Rabba and her watery plain,
In Argob and in Basan, to the stream
Of utmost Arnon. Nor content with such
Audacious neighbourhood, the wisest heart
Of Solomon he led by fraoud to build
His temple right against the temple of God
On that opprobrious hill, and made his grove
The pleasant valley of Hinnom, Tophet thence
And black Gehenna called, the type of Hell.
Next Chemos, th' obscene dread of Moab's sons,
From Aroar to Nebo and the wild
Of southmost Abarim; in Hesebon
And Horonaim, Seon's real, beyond
The flowery dale of Sibma clad with vines,
And Eleale to th' Asphaltic Pool:
Peor his other name, when he enticed
Israel in Sittim, on their march from Nile,
To do him wanton rites, which cost them woe.
Yet thence his lustful orgies he enlarged
Even to that hill of scandal, by the grove
Of Moloch homicide, lust hard by hate,
Till good Josiah drove them thence to Hell.
With these came they who, from the bordering flood
Of old Euphrates to the brook that parts
Egypt from Syrian ground, had general names
Of Baalim and Ashtaroth--those male,
These feminine. For Spirits, when they please,
Can either sex assume, or both; so soft
And uncompounded is their essence pure,
Not tried or manacled with joint or limb,
Nor founded on the brittle strength of bones,
Like cumbrous flesh; but, in what shape they choose,
Dilated or condensed, bright or obscure,
Can execute their airy purposes,
And works of love or enmity fulfil.
For those the race of Israel oft forsook
Their Living Strength, and unfrequented left
His righteous altar, bowing lowly down
To bestial gods; for which their heads as low
Bowed down in battle, sunk before the spear
Of despicable foes. With these in troop
Came Astoreth, whom the Phoenicians called
Astarte, queen of heaven, with crescent horns;
To whose bright image nigntly by the moon
Sidonian virgins paid their vows and songs;
In Sion also not unsung, where stood
Her temple on th' offensive mountain, built
By that uxorious king whose heart, though large,
Beguiled by fair idolatresses, fell
To idols foul. Thammuz came next behind,
Whose annual wound in Lebanon allured
The Syrian damsels to lament his fate
In amorous ditties all a summer's day,
While smooth Adonis from his native rock
Ran purple to the sea, supposed with blood
Of Thammuz yearly wounded: the love-tale
Infected Sion's daughters with like heat,
Whose wanton passions in the sacred proch
Ezekiel saw, when, by the vision led,
His eye surveyed the dark idolatries
Of alienated Judah. Next came one
Who mourned in earnest, when the captive ark
Maimed his brute image, head and hands lopt off,
In his own temple, on the grunsel-edge,
Where he fell flat and shamed his worshippers:
Dagon his name, sea-monster,upward man
And downward fish; yet had his temple high
Reared in Azotus, dreaded through the coast
Of Palestine, in Gath and Ascalon,
And Accaron and Gaza's frontier bounds.
Him followed Rimmon, whose delightful seat
Was fair Damascus, on the fertile banks
Of Abbana and Pharphar, lucid streams.
He also against the house of God was bold:
A leper once he lost, and gained a king--
Ahaz, his sottish conqueror, whom he drew
God's altar to disparage and displace
For one of Syrian mode, whereon to burn
His odious offerings, and adore the gods
Whom he had vanquished. After these appeared
A crew who, under names of old renown--
Osiris, Isis, Orus, and their train--
With monstrous shapes and sorceries abused
Fanatic Egypt and her priests to seek
Their wandering gods disguised in brutish forms
Rather than human. Nor did Israel scape
Th' infection, when their borrowed gold composed
The calf in Oreb; and the rebel king
Doubled that sin in Bethel and in Dan,
Likening his Maker to the grazed ox--
Jehovah, who, in one night, when he passed
From Egypt marching, equalled with one stroke
Both her first-born and all her bleating gods.
Belial came last; than whom a Spirit more lewd
Fell not from Heaven, or more gross to love
Vice for itself. To him no temple stood
Or altar smoked; yet who more oft than he
In temples and at altars, when the priest
Turns atheist, as did Eli's sons, who filled
With lust and violence the house of God?
In courts and palaces he also reigns,
And in luxurious cities, where the noise
Of riot ascends above their loftiest towers,
And injury and outrage; and, when night
Darkens the streets, then wander forth the sons
Of Belial, flown with insolence and wine.
Witness the streets of Sodom, and that night
In Gibeah, when the hospitable door
Exposed a matron, to avoid worse rape.
  These were the prime in order and in might:
The rest were long to tell; though far renowned
Th' Ionian gods--of Javan's issue held
Gods, yet confessed later than Heaven and Earth,
Their boasted parents;--Titan, Heaven's first-born,
With his enormous brood, and birthright seized
By younger Saturn: he from mightier Jove,
His own and Rhea's son, like measure found;
So Jove usurping reigned. These, first in Crete
And Ida known, thence on the snowy top
Of cold Olympus ruled the middle air,
Their highest heaven; or on the Delphian cliff,
Or in Dodona, and through all the bounds
Of Doric land; or who with Saturn old
Fled over Adria to th' Hesperian fields,
And o'er the Celtic roamed the utmost Isles.
  All these and more came flocking; but with looks
Downcast and damp; yet such wherein appeared
Obscure some glimpse of joy to have found their Chief
Not in despair, to have found themselves not lost
In loss itself; which on his countenance cast
Like doubtful hue. But he, his wonted pride
Soon recollecting, with high words, that bore
Semblance of worth, not substance, gently raised
Their fainting courage, and dispelled their fears.
Then straight commands that, at the warlike sound
Of trumpets loud and clarions, be upreared
His mighty standard. That proud honour claimed
Azazel as his right, a Cherub tall:
Who forthwith from the glittering staff unfurled
Th' imperial ensign; which, full high advanced,
Shone like a meteor streaming to the wind,
With gems and golden lustre rich emblazed,
Seraphic arms and trophies; all the while
Sonorous metal blowing martial sounds:
At which the universal host up-sent
A shout that tore Hell's concave, and beyond
Frighted the reign of Chaos and old Night.
All in a moment through the gloom were seen
Ten thousand banners rise into the air,
With orient colours waving: with them rose
A forest huge of spears; and thronging helms
Appeared, and serried shields in thick array
Of depth immeasurable. Anon they move
In perfect phalanx to the Dorian mood
Of flutes and soft recorders--such as raised
To height of noblest temper heroes old
Arming to battle, and instead of rage
Deliberate valour breathed, firm, and unmoved
With dread of death to flight or foul retreat;
Nor wanting power to mitigate and swage
With solemn touches troubled thoughts, and chase
Anguish and doubt and fear and sorrow and pain
From mortal or immortal minds. Thus they,
Breathing united force with fixed thought,
Moved on in silence to soft pipes that charmed
Their painful steps o'er the burnt soil. And now
Advanced in view they stand--a horrid front
Of dreadful length and dazzling arms, in guise
Of warriors old, with ordered spear and shield,
Awaiting what command their mighty Chief
Had to impose. He through the armed files
Darts his experienced eye, and soon traverse
The whole battalion views--their order due,
Their visages and stature as of gods;
Their number last he sums. And now his heart
Distends with pride, and, hardening in his strength,
Glories: for never, since created Man,
Met such embodied force as, named with these,
Could merit more than that small infantry
Warred on by cranes--though all the giant brood
Of Phlegra with th' heroic race were joined
That fought at Thebes and Ilium, on each side
Mixed with auxiliar gods; and what resounds
In fable or romance of Uther's son,
Begirt with British and Armoric knights;
And all who since, baptized or infidel,
Jousted in Aspramont, or Montalban,
Damasco, or Marocco, or Trebisond,
Or whom Biserta sent from Afric shore
When Charlemain with all his peerage fell
By Fontarabbia. Thus far these beyond
Compare of mortal prowess, yet observed
Their dread Commander. He, above the rest
In shape and gesture proudly eminent,
Stood like a tower. His form had yet not lost
All her original brightness, nor appeared
Less than Archangel ruined, and th' excess
Of glory obscured: as when the sun new-risen
Looks through the horizontal misty air
Shorn of his beams, or, from behind the moon,
In dim eclipse, disastrous twilight sheds
On half the nations, and with fear of change
Perplexes monarchs. Darkened so, yet shone
Above them all th' Archangel: but his face
Deep scars of thunder had intrenched, and care
Sat on his faded cheek, but under brows
Of dauntless courage, and considerate pride
Waiting revenge. Cruel his eye, but cast
Signs of remorse and passion, to behold
The fellows of his crime, the followers rather
(Far other once beheld in bliss), condemned
For ever now to have their lot in pain--
Millions of Spirits for his fault amerced
Of Heaven, and from eteranl splendours flung
For his revolt--yet faithful how they stood,
Their glory withered; as, when heaven's fire
Hath scathed the forest oaks or mountain pines,
With singed top their stately growth, though bare,
Stands on the blasted heath. He now prepared
To speak; whereat their doubled ranks they bend
From wing to wing, and half enclose him round
With all his peers: attention held them mute.
Thrice he assayed, and thrice, in spite of scorn,
Tears, such as Angels weep, burst forth: at last
Words interwove with sighs found out their way:--
  "O myriads of immortal Spirits! O Powers
Matchless, but with th' Almighth!--and that strife
Was not inglorious, though th' event was dire,
As this place testifies, and this dire change,
Hateful to utter. But what power of mind,
Forseeing or presaging, from the depth
Of knowledge past or present, could have feared
How such united force of gods, how such
As stood like these, could ever know repulse?
For who can yet believe, though after loss,
That all these puissant legions, whose exile
Hath emptied Heaven, shall fail to re-ascend,
Self-raised, and repossess their native seat?
For me, be witness all the host of Heaven,
If counsels different, or danger shunned
By me, have lost our hopes. But he who reigns
Monarch in Heaven till then as one secure
Sat on his throne, upheld by old repute,
Consent or custom, and his regal state
Put forth at full, but still his strength concealed--
Which tempted our attempt, and wrought our fall.
Henceforth his might we know, and know our own,
So as not either to provoke, or dread
New war provoked: our better part remains
To work in close design, by fraud or guile,
What force effected not; that he no less
At length from us may find, who overcomes
By force hath overcome but half his foe.
Space may produce new Worlds; whereof so rife
There went a fame in Heaven that he ere long
Intended to create, and therein plant
A generation whom his choice regard
Should favour equal to the Sons of Heaven.
Thither, if but to pry, shall be perhaps
Our first eruption--thither, or elsewhere;
For this infernal pit shall never hold
Celestial Spirits in bondage, nor th' Abyss
Long under darkness cover. But these thoughts
Full counsel must mature. Peace is despaired;
For who can think submission? War, then, war
Open or understood, must be resolved."
  He spake; and, to confirm his words, outflew
Millions of flaming swords, drawn from the thighs
Of mighty Cherubim; the sudden blaze
Far round illumined Hell. Highly they raged
Against the Highest, and fierce with grasped arms
Clashed on their sounding shields the din of war,
Hurling defiance toward the vault of Heaven.
  There stood a hill not far, whose grisly top
Belched fire and rolling smoke; the rest entire
Shone with a glossy scurf--undoubted sign
That in his womb was hid metallic ore,
The work of sulphur. Thither, winged with speed,
A numerous brigade hastened: as when bands
Of pioneers, with spade and pickaxe armed,
Forerun the royal camp, to trench a field,
Or cast a rampart. Mammon led them on--
Mammon, the least erected Spirit that fell
From Heaven; for even in Heaven his looks and thoughts
Were always downward bent, admiring more
The riches of heaven's pavement, trodden gold,
Than aught divine or holy else enjoyed
In vision beatific. By him first
Men also, and by his suggestion taught,
Ransacked the centre, and with impious hands
Rifled the bowels of their mother Earth
For treasures better hid. Soon had his crew
Opened into the hill a spacious wound,
And digged out ribs of gold. Let none admire
That riches grow in Hell; that soil may best
Deserve the precious bane. And here let those
Who boast in mortal things, and wondering tell
Of Babel, and the works of Memphian kings,
Learn how their greatest monuments of fame
And strength, and art, are easily outdone
By Spirits reprobate, and in an hour
What in an age they, with incessant toil
And hands innumerable, scarce perform.
Nigh on the plain, in many cells prepared,
That underneath had veins of liquid fire
Sluiced from the lake, a second multitude
With wondrous art founded the massy ore,
Severing each kind, and scummed the bullion-dross.
A third as soon had formed within the ground
A various mould, and from the boiling cells
By strange conveyance filled each hollow nook;
As in an organ, from one blast of wind,
To many a row of pipes the sound-board breathes.
Anon out of the earth a fabric huge
Rose like an exhalation, with the sound
Of dulcet symphonies and voices sweet--
Built like a temple, where pilasters round
Were set, and Doric pillars overlaid
With golden architrave; nor did there want
Cornice or frieze, with bossy sculptures graven;
The roof was fretted gold. Not Babylon
Nor great Alcairo such magnificence
Equalled in all their glories, to enshrine
Belus or Serapis their gods, or seat
Their kings, when Egypt with Assyria strove
In wealth and luxury. Th' ascending pile
Stood fixed her stately height, and straight the doors,
Opening their brazen folds, discover, wide
Within, her ample spaces o'er the smooth
And level pavement: from the arched roof,
Pendent by subtle magic, many a row
Of starry lamps and blazing cressets, fed
With naptha and asphaltus, yielded light
As from a sky. The hasty multitude
Admiring entered; and the work some praise,
And some the architect. His hand was known
In Heaven by many a towered structure high,
Where sceptred Angels held their residence,
And sat as Princes, whom the supreme King
Exalted to such power, and gave to rule,
Each in his Hierarchy, the Orders bright.
Nor was his name unheard or unadored
In ancient Greece; and in Ausonian land
Men called him Mulciber; and how he fell
From Heaven they fabled, thrown by angry Jove
Sheer o'er the crystal battlements: from morn
To noon he fell, from noon to dewy eve,
A summer's day, and with the setting sun
Dropt from the zenith, like a falling star,
On Lemnos, th' Aegaean isle. Thus they relate,
Erring; for he with this rebellious rout
Fell long before; nor aught aviled him now
To have built in Heaven high towers; nor did he scape
By all his engines, but was headlong sent,
With his industrious crew, to build in Hell.
  Meanwhile the winged Heralds, by command
Of sovereign power, with awful ceremony
And trumpet's sound, throughout the host proclaim
A solemn council forthwith to be held
At Pandemonium, the high capital
Of Satan and his peers. Their summons called
From every band and squared regiment
By place or choice the worthiest: they anon
With hundreds and with thousands trooping came
Attended. All access was thronged; the gates
And porches wide, but chief the spacious hall
(Though like a covered field, where champions bold
Wont ride in armed, and at the Soldan's chair
Defied the best of Paynim chivalry
To mortal combat, or career with lance),
Thick swarmed, both on the ground and in the air,
Brushed with the hiss of rustling wings. As bees
In spring-time, when the Sun with Taurus rides.
Pour forth their populous youth about the hive
In clusters; they among fresh dews and flowers
Fly to and fro, or on the smoothed plank,
The suburb of their straw-built citadel,
New rubbed with balm, expatiate, and confer
Their state-affairs: so thick the airy crowd
Swarmed and were straitened; till, the signal given,
Behold a wonder! They but now who seemed
In bigness to surpass Earth's giant sons,
Now less than smallest dwarfs, in narrow room
Throng numberless--like that pygmean race
Beyond the Indian mount; or faery elves,
Whose midnight revels, by a forest-side
Or fountain, some belated peasant sees,
Or dreams he sees, while overhead the Moon
Sits arbitress, and nearer to the Earth
Wheels her pale course: they, on their mirth and dance
Intent, with jocund music charm his ear;
At once with joy and fear his heart rebounds.
Thus incorporeal Spirits to smallest forms
Reduced their shapes immense, and were at large,
Though without number still, amidst the hall
Of that infernal court. But far within,
And in their own dimensions like themselves,
The great Seraphic Lords and Cherubim
In close recess and secret conclave sat,
A thousand demi-gods on golden seats,
Frequent and full. After short silence then,
And summons read, the great consult began.



Book II


High on a throne of royal state, which far
Outshone the wealth or Ormus and of Ind,
Or where the gorgeous East with richest hand
Showers on her kings barbaric pearl and gold,
Satan exalted sat, by merit raised
To that bad eminence; and, from despair
Thus high uplifted beyond hope, aspires
Beyond thus high, insatiate to pursue
Vain war with Heaven; and, by success untaught,
His proud imaginations thus displayed:--
  "Powers and Dominions, Deities of Heaven!--
For, since no deep within her gulf can hold
Immortal vigour, though oppressed and fallen,
I give not Heaven for lost: from this descent
Celestial Virtues rising will appear
More glorious and more dread than from no fall,
And trust themselves to fear no second fate!--
Me though just right, and the fixed laws of Heaven,
Did first create your leader--next, free choice
With what besides in council or in fight
Hath been achieved of merit--yet this loss,
Thus far at least recovered, hath much more
Established in a safe, unenvied throne,
Yielded with full consent. The happier state
In Heaven, which follows dignity, might draw
Envy from each inferior; but who here
Will envy whom the highest place exposes
Foremost to stand against the Thunderer's aim
Your bulwark, and condemns to greatest share
Of endless pain? Where there is, then, no good
For which to strive, no strife can grow up there
From faction: for none sure will claim in Hell
Precedence; none whose portion is so small
Of present pain that with ambitious mind
Will covet more! With this advantage, then,
To union, and firm faith, and firm accord,
More than can be in Heaven, we now return
To claim our just inheritance of old,
Surer to prosper than prosperity
Could have assured us; and by what best way,
Whether of open war or covert guile,
We now debate. Who can advise may speak."
  He ceased; and next him Moloch, sceptred king,
Stood up--the strongest and the fiercest Spirit
That fought in Heaven, now fiercer by despair.
His trust was with th' Eternal to be deemed
Equal in strength, and rather than be less
Cared not to be at all; with that care lost
Went all his fear: of God, or Hell, or worse,
He recked not, and these words thereafter spake:--
  "My sentence is for open war. Of wiles,
More unexpert, I boast not: them let those
Contrive who need, or when they need; not now.
For, while they sit contriving, shall the rest--
Millions that stand in arms, and longing wait
The signal to ascend--sit lingering here,
Heaven's fugitives, and for their dwelling-place
Accept this dark opprobrious den of shame,
The prison of his ryranny who reigns
By our delay? No! let us rather choose,
Armed with Hell-flames and fury, all at once
O'er Heaven's high towers to force resistless way,
Turning our tortures into horrid arms
Against the Torturer; when, to meet the noise
Of his almighty engine, he shall hear
Infernal thunder, and, for lightning, see
Black fire and horror shot with equal rage
Among his Angels, and his throne itself
Mixed with Tartarean sulphur and strange fire,
His own invented torments. But perhaps
The way seems difficult, and steep to scale
With upright wing against a higher foe!
Let such bethink them, if the sleepy drench
Of that forgetful lake benumb not still,
That in our porper motion we ascend
Up to our native seat; descent and fall
To us is adverse. Who but felt of late,
When the fierce foe hung on our broken rear
Insulting, and pursued us through the Deep,
With what compulsion and laborious flight
We sunk thus low? Th' ascent is easy, then;
Th' event is feared! Should we again provoke
Our stronger, some worse way his wrath may find
To our destruction, if there be in Hell
Fear to be worse destroyed! What can be worse
Than to dwell here, driven out from bliss, condemned
In this abhorred deep to utter woe!
Where pain of unextinguishable fire
Must exercise us without hope of end
The vassals of his anger, when the scourge
Inexorably, and the torturing hour,
Calls us to penance? More destroyed than thus,
We should be quite abolished, and expire.
What fear we then? what doubt we to incense
His utmost ire? which, to the height enraged,
Will either quite consume us, and reduce
To nothing this essential--happier far
Than miserable to have eternal being!--
Or, if our substance be indeed divine,
And cannot cease to be, we are at worst
On this side nothing; and by proof we feel
Our power sufficient to disturb his Heaven,
And with perpetual inroads to alarm,
Though inaccessible, his fatal throne:
Which, if not victory, is yet revenge."
  He ended frowning, and his look denounced
Desperate revenge, and battle dangerous
To less than gods. On th' other side up rose
Belial, in act more graceful and humane.
A fairer person lost not Heaven; he seemed
For dignity composed, and high exploit.
But all was false and hollow; though his tongue
Dropped manna, and could make the worse appear
The better reason, to perplex and dash
Maturest counsels: for his thoughts were low--
 To vice industrious, but to nobler deeds
Timorous and slothful. Yet he pleased the ear,
And with persuasive accent thus began:--
  "I should be much for open war, O Peers,
As not behind in hate, if what was urged
Main reason to persuade immediate war
Did not dissuade me most, and seem to cast
Ominous conjecture on the whole success;
When he who most excels in fact of arms,
In what he counsels and in what excels
Mistrustful, grounds his courage on despair
And utter dissolution, as the scope
Of all his aim, after some dire revenge.
First, what revenge? The towers of Heaven are filled
With armed watch, that render all access
Impregnable: oft on the bodering Deep
Encamp their legions, or with obscure wing
Scout far and wide into the realm of Night,
Scorning surprise. Or, could we break our way
By force, and at our heels all Hell should rise
With blackest insurrection to confound
Heaven's purest light, yet our great Enemy,
All incorruptible, would on his throne
Sit unpolluted, and th' ethereal mould,
Incapable of stain, would soon expel
Her mischief, and purge off the baser fire,
Victorious. Thus repulsed, our final hope
Is flat despair: we must exasperate
Th' Almighty Victor to spend all his rage;
And that must end us; that must be our cure--
To be no more. Sad cure! for who would lose,
Though full of pain, this intellectual being,
Those thoughts that wander through eternity,
To perish rather, swallowed up and lost
In the wide womb of uncreated Night,
Devoid of sense and motion? And who knows,
Let this be good, whether our angry Foe
Can give it, or will ever? How he can
Is doubtful; that he never will is sure.
Will he, so wise, let loose at once his ire,
Belike through impotence or unaware,
To give his enemies their wish, and end
Them in his anger whom his anger saves
To punish endless? 'Wherefore cease we, then?'
Say they who counsel war; 'we are decreed,
Reserved, and destined to eternal woe;
Whatever doing, what can we suffer more,
What can we suffer worse?' Is this, then, worst--
Thus sitting, thus consulting, thus in arms?
What when we fled amain, pursued and struck
With Heaven's afflicting thunder, and besought
The Deep to shelter us? This Hell then seemed
A refuge from those wounds. Or when we lay
Chained on the burning lake? That sure was worse.
What if the breath that kindled those grim fires,
Awaked, should blow them into sevenfold rage,
And plunge us in the flames; or from above
Should intermitted vengeance arm again
His red right hand to plague us? What if all
Her stores were opened, and this firmament
Of Hell should spout her cataracts of fire,
Impendent horrors, threatening hideous fall
One day upon our heads; while we perhaps,
Designing or exhorting glorious war,
Caught in a fiery tempest, shall be hurled,
Each on his rock transfixed, the sport and prey
Or racking whirlwinds, or for ever sunk
Under yon boiling ocean, wrapt in chains,
There to converse with everlasting groans,
Unrespited, unpitied, unreprieved,
Ages of hopeless end? This would be worse.
War, therefore, open or concealed, alike
My voice dissuades; for what can force or guile
With him, or who deceive his mind, whose eye
Views all things at one view? He from Heaven's height
All these our motions vain sees and derides,
Not more almighty to resist our might
Than wise to frustrate all our plots and wiles.
Shall we, then, live thus vile--the race of Heaven
Thus trampled, thus expelled, to suffer here
Chains and these torments? Better these than worse,
By my advice; since fate inevitable
Subdues us, and omnipotent decree,
The Victor's will. To suffer, as to do,
Our strength is equal; nor the law unjust
That so ordains. This was at first resolved,
If we were wise, against so great a foe
Contending, and so doubtful what might fall.
I laugh when those who at the spear are bold
And venturous, if that fail them, shrink, and fear
What yet they know must follow--to endure
Exile, or igominy, or bonds, or pain,
The sentence of their Conqueror. This is now
Our doom; which if we can sustain and bear,
Our Supreme Foe in time may much remit
His anger, and perhaps, thus far removed,
Not mind us not offending, satisfied
With what is punished; whence these raging fires
Will slacken, if his breath stir not their flames.
Our purer essence then will overcome
Their noxious vapour; or, inured, not feel;
Or, changed at length, and to the place conformed
In temper and in nature, will receive
Familiar the fierce heat; and, void of pain,
This horror will grow mild, this darkness light;
Besides what hope the never-ending flight
Of future days may bring, what chance, what change
Worth waiting--since our present lot appears
For happy though but ill, for ill not worst,
If we procure not to ourselves more woe."
  Thus Belial, with words clothed in reason's garb,
Counselled ignoble ease and peaceful sloth,
Not peace; and after him thus Mammon spake:--
  "Either to disenthrone the King of Heaven
We war, if war be best, or to regain
Our own right lost. Him to unthrone we then
May hope, when everlasting Fate shall yield
To fickle Chance, and Chaos judge the strife.
The former, vain to hope, argues as vain
The latter; for what place can be for us
Within Heaven's bound, unless Heaven's Lord supreme
We overpower? Suppose he should relent
And publish grace to all, on promise made
Of new subjection; with what eyes could we
Stand in his presence humble, and receive
Strict laws imposed, to celebrate his throne
With warbled hyms, and to his Godhead sing
Forced hallelujahs, while he lordly sits
Our envied sovereign, and his altar breathes
Ambrosial odours and ambrosial flowers,
Our servile offerings? This must be our task
In Heaven, this our delight. How wearisome
Eternity so spent in worship paid
To whom we hate! Let us not then pursue,
By force impossible, by leave obtained
Unacceptable, though in Heaven, our state
Of splendid vassalage; but rather seek
Our own good from ourselves, and from our own
Live to ourselves, though in this vast recess,
Free and to none accountable, preferring
Hard liberty before the easy yoke
Of servile pomp. Our greatness will appear
Then most conspicuous when great things of small,
Useful of hurtful, prosperous of adverse,
We can create, and in what place soe'er
Thrive under evil, and work ease out of pain
Through labour and endurance. This deep world
Of darkness do we dread? How oft amidst
Thick clouds and dark doth Heaven's all-ruling Sire
Choose to reside, his glory unobscured,
And with the majesty of darkness round
Covers his throne, from whence deep thunders roar.
Mustering their rage, and Heaven resembles Hell!
As he our darkness, cannot we his light
Imitate when we please? This desert soil
Wants not her hidden lustre, gems and gold;
Nor want we skill or art from whence to raise
Magnificence; and what can Heaven show more?
Our torments also may, in length of time,
Become our elements, these piercing fires
As soft as now severe, our temper changed
Into their temper; which must needs remove
The sensible of pain. All things invite
To peaceful counsels, and the settled state
Of order, how in safety best we may
Compose our present evils, with regard
Of what we are and where, dismissing quite
All thoughts of war. Ye have what I advise."
  He scarce had finished, when such murmur filled
Th' assembly as when hollow rocks retain
The sound of blustering winds, which all night long
Had roused the sea, now with hoarse cadence lull
Seafaring men o'erwatched, whose bark by chance
Or pinnace, anchors in a craggy bay
After the tempest. Such applause was heard
As Mammon ended, and his sentence pleased,
Advising peace: for such another field
They dreaded worse than Hell; so much the fear
Of thunder and the sword of Michael
Wrought still within them; and no less desire
To found this nether empire, which might rise,
By policy and long process of time,
In emulation opposite to Heaven.
Which when Beelzebub perceived--than whom,
Satan except, none higher sat--with grave
Aspect he rose, and in his rising seemed
A pillar of state. Deep on his front engraven
Deliberation sat, and public care;
And princely counsel in his face yet shone,
Majestic, though in ruin. Sage he stood
With Atlantean shoulders, fit to bear
The weight of mightiest monarchies; his look
Drew audience and attention still as night
Or summer's noontide air, while thus he spake:--
  "Thrones and Imperial Powers, Offspring of Heaven,
Ethereal Virtues! or these titles now
Must we renounce, and, changing style, be called
Princes of Hell? for so the popular vote
Inclines--here to continue, and build up here
A growing empire; doubtless! while we dream,
And know not that the King of Heaven hath doomed
This place our dungeon, not our safe retreat
Beyond his potent arm, to live exempt
From Heaven's high jurisdiction, in new league
Banded against his throne, but to remain
In strictest bondage, though thus far removed,
Under th' inevitable curb, reserved
His captive multitude. For he, to be sure,
In height or depth, still first and last will reign
Sole king, and of his kingdom lose no part
By our revolt, but over Hell extend
His empire, and with iron sceptre rule
Us here, as with his golden those in Heaven.
What sit we then projecting peace and war?
War hath determined us and foiled with loss
Irreparable; terms of peace yet none
Vouchsafed or sought; for what peace will be given
To us enslaved, but custody severe,
And stripes and arbitrary punishment
Inflicted? and what peace can we return,
But, to our power, hostility and hate,
Untamed reluctance, and revenge, though slow,
Yet ever plotting how the Conqueror least
May reap his conquest, and may least rejoice
In doing what we most in suffering feel?
Nor will occasion want, nor shall we need
With dangerous expedition to invade
Heaven, whose high walls fear no assault or siege,
Or ambush from the Deep. What if we find
Some easier enterprise? There is a place
(If ancient and prophetic fame in Heaven
Err not)--another World, the happy seat
Of some new race, called Man, about this time
To be created like to us, though less
In power and excellence, but favoured more
Of him who rules above; so was his will
Pronounced among the Gods, and by an oath
That shook Heaven's whole circumference confirmed.
Thither let us bend all our thoughts, to learn
What creatures there inhabit, of what mould
Or substance, how endued, and what their power
And where their weakness: how attempted best,
By force of subtlety. Though Heaven be shut,
And Heaven's high Arbitrator sit secure
In his own strength, this place may lie exposed,
The utmost border of his kingdom, left
To their defence who hold it: here, perhaps,
Some advantageous act may be achieved
By sudden onset--either with Hell-fire
To waste his whole creation, or possess
All as our own, and drive, as we were driven,
The puny habitants; or, if not drive,
Seduce them to our party, that their God
May prove their foe, and with repenting hand
Abolish his own works. This would surpass
Common revenge, and interrupt his joy
In our confusion, and our joy upraise
In his disturbance; when his darling sons,
Hurled headlong to partake with us, shall curse
Their frail original, and faded bliss--
Faded so soon! Advise if this be worth
Attempting, or to sit in darkness here
Hatching vain empires." Thus beelzebub
Pleaded his devilish counsel--first devised
By Satan, and in part proposed: for whence,
But from the author of all ill, could spring
So deep a malice, to confound the race
Of mankind in one root, and Earth with Hell
To mingle and involve, done all to spite
The great Creator? But their spite still serves
His glory to augment. The bold design
Pleased highly those infernal States, and joy
Sparkled in all their eyes: with full assent
They vote: whereat his speech he thus renews:--
"Well have ye judged, well ended long debate,
Synod of Gods, and, like to what ye are,
Great things resolved, which from the lowest deep
Will once more lift us up, in spite of fate,
Nearer our ancient seat--perhaps in view
Of those bright confines, whence, with neighbouring arms,
And opportune excursion, we may chance
Re-enter Heaven; or else in some mild zone
Dwell, not unvisited of Heaven's fair light,
Secure, and at the brightening orient beam
Purge off this gloom: the soft delicious air,
To heal the scar of these corrosive fires,
Shall breathe her balm. But, first, whom shall we send
In search of this new World? whom shall we find
Sufficient? who shall tempt with wandering feet
The dark, unbottomed, infinite Abyss,
And through the palpable obscure find out
His uncouth way, or spread his airy flight,
Upborne with indefatigable wings
Over the vast abrupt, ere he arrive
The happy Isle? What strength, what art, can then
Suffice, or what evasion bear him safe,
Through the strict senteries and stations thick
Of Angels watching round? Here he had need
All circumspection: and we now no less
Choice in our suffrage; for on whom we send
The weight of all, and our last hope, relies."
  This said, he sat; and expectation held
His look suspense, awaiting who appeared
To second, or oppose, or undertake
The perilous attempt. But all sat mute,
Pondering the danger with deep thoughts; and each
In other's countenance read his own dismay,
Astonished. None among the choice and prime
Of those Heaven-warring champions could be found
So hardy as to proffer or accept,
Alone, the dreadful voyage; till, at last,
Satan, whom now transcendent glory raised
Above his fellows, with monarchal pride
Conscious of highest worth, unmoved thus spake:--
  "O Progeny of Heaven! Empyreal Thrones!
With reason hath deep silence and demur
Seized us, though undismayed. Long is the way
And hard, that out of Hell leads up to light.
Our prison strong, this huge convex of fire,
Outrageous to devour, immures us round
Ninefold; and gates of burning adamant,
Barred over us, prohibit all egress.
These passed, if any pass, the void profound
Of unessential Night receives him next,
Wide-gaping, and with utter loss of being
Threatens him, plunged in that abortive gulf.
If thence he scape, into whatever world,
Or unknown region, what remains him less
Than unknown dangers, and as hard escape?
But I should ill become this throne, O Peers,
And this imperial sovereignty, adorned
With splendour, armed with power, if aught proposed
And judged of public moment in the shape
Of difficulty or danger, could deter
Me from attempting. Wherefore do I assume
These royalties, and not refuse to reign,
Refusing to accept as great a share
Of hazard as of honour, due alike
To him who reigns, and so much to him due
Of hazard more as he above the rest
High honoured sits? Go, therefore, mighty Powers,
Terror of Heaven, though fallen; intend at home,
While here shall be our home, what best may ease
The present misery, and render Hell
More tolerable; if there be cure or charm
To respite, or deceive, or slack the pain
Of this ill mansion: intermit no watch
Against a wakeful foe, while I abroad
Through all the coasts of dark destruction seek
Deliverance for us all. This enterprise
None shall partake with me." Thus saying, rose
The Monarch, and prevented all reply;
Prudent lest, from his resolution raised,
Others among the chief might offer now,
Certain to be refused, what erst they feared,
And, so refused, might in opinion stand
His rivals, winning cheap the high repute
Which he through hazard huge must earn. But they
Dreaded not more th' adventure than his voice
Forbidding; and at once with him they rose.
Their rising all at once was as the sound
Of thunder heard remote. Towards him they bend
With awful reverence prone, and as a God
Extol him equal to the Highest in Heaven.
Nor failed they to express how much they praised
That for the general safety he despised
His own: for neither do the Spirits damned
Lose all their virtue; lest bad men should boast
Their specious deeds on earth, which glory excites,
Or close ambition varnished o'er with zeal.
  Thus they their doubtful consultations dark
Ended, rejoicing in their matchless Chief:
As, when from mountain-tops the dusky clouds
Ascending, while the north wind sleeps, o'erspread
Heaven's cheerful face, the louring element
Scowls o'er the darkened landscape snow or shower,
If chance the radiant sun, with farewell sweet,
Extend his evening beam, the fields revive,
The birds their notes renew, and bleating herds
Attest their joy, that hill and valley rings.
O shame to men! Devil with devil damned
Firm concord holds; men only disagree
Of creatures rational, though under hope
Of heavenly grace, and, God proclaiming peace,
Yet live in hatred, enmity, and strife
Among themselves, and levy cruel wars
Wasting the earth, each other to destroy:
As if (which might induce us to accord)
Man had not hellish foes enow besides,
That day and night for his destruction wait!
  The Stygian council thus dissolved; and forth
In order came the grand infernal Peers:
Midst came their mighty Paramount, and seemed
Alone th' antagonist of Heaven, nor less
Than Hell's dread Emperor, with pomp supreme,
And god-like imitated state: him round
A globe of fiery Seraphim enclosed
With bright emblazonry, and horrent arms.
Then of their session ended they bid cry
With trumpet's regal sound the great result:
Toward the four winds four speedy Cherubim
Put to their mouths the sounding alchemy,
By herald's voice explained; the hollow Abyss
Heard far adn wide, and all the host of Hell
With deafening shout returned them loud acclaim.
Thence more at ease their minds, and somewhat raised
By false presumptuous hope, the ranged Powers
Disband; and, wandering, each his several way
Pursues, as inclination or sad choice
Leads him perplexed, where he may likeliest find
Truce to his restless thoughts, and entertain
The irksome hours, till his great Chief return.
Part on the plain, or in the air sublime,
Upon the wing or in swift race contend,
As at th' Olympian games or Pythian fields;
Part curb their fiery steeds, or shun the goal
With rapid wheels, or fronted brigades form:
As when, to warn proud cities, war appears
Waged in the troubled sky, and armies rush
To battle in the clouds; before each van
Prick forth the airy knights, and couch their spears,
Till thickest legions close; with feats of arms
From either end of heaven the welkin burns.
Others, with vast Typhoean rage, more fell,
Rend up both rocks and hills, and ride the air
In whirlwind; Hell scarce holds the wild uproar:--
As when Alcides, from Oechalia crowned
With conquest, felt th' envenomed robe, and tore
Through pain up by the roots Thessalian pines,
And Lichas from the top of Oeta threw
Into th' Euboic sea. Others, more mild,
Retreated in a silent valley, sing
With notes angelical to many a harp
Their own heroic deeds, and hapless fall
By doom of battle, and complain that Fate
Free Virtue should enthrall to Force or Chance.
Their song was partial; but the harmony
(What could it less when Spirits immortal sing?)
Suspended Hell, and took with ravishment
The thronging audience. In discourse more sweet
(For Eloquence the Soul, Song charms the Sense)
Others apart sat on a hill retired,
In thoughts more elevate, and reasoned high
Of Providence, Foreknowledge, Will, and Fate--
Fixed fate, free will, foreknowledge absolute,
And found no end, in wandering mazes lost.
Of good and evil much they argued then,
Of happiness and final misery,
Passion and apathy, and glory and shame:
Vain wisdom all, and false philosophy!--
Yet, with a pleasing sorcery, could charm
Pain for a while or anguish, and excite
Fallacious hope, or arm th' obdured breast
With stubborn patience as with triple steel.
Another part, in squadrons and gross bands,
On bold adventure to discover wide
That dismal world, if any clime perhaps
Might yield them easier habitation, bend
Four ways their flying march, along the banks
Of four infernal rivers, that disgorge
Into the burning lake their baleful streams--
Abhorred Styx, the flood of deadly hate;
Sad Acheron of sorrow, black and deep;
Cocytus, named of lamentation loud
Heard on the rueful stream; fierce Phlegeton,
Whose waves of torrent fire inflame with rage.
Far off from these, a slow and silent stream,
Lethe, the river of oblivion, rolls
Her watery labyrinth, whereof who drinks
Forthwith his former state and being forgets--
Forgets both joy and grief, pleasure and pain.
Beyond this flood a frozen continent
Lies dark and wild, beat with perpetual storms
Of whirlwind and dire hail, which on firm land
Thaws not, but gathers heap, and ruin seems
Of ancient pile; all else deep snow and ice,
A gulf profound as that Serbonian bog
Betwixt Damiata and Mount Casius old,
Where armies whole have sunk: the parching air
Burns frore, and cold performs th' effect of fire.
Thither, by harpy-footed Furies haled,
At certain revolutions all the damned
Are brought; and feel by turns the bitter change
Of fierce extremes, extremes by change more fierce,
From beds of raging fire to starve in ice
Their soft ethereal warmth, and there to pine
Immovable, infixed, and frozen round
Periods of time,--thence hurried back to fire.
They ferry over this Lethean sound
Both to and fro, their sorrow to augment,
And wish and struggle, as they pass, to reach
The tempting stream, with one small drop to lose
In sweet forgetfulness all pain and woe,
All in one moment, and so near the brink;
But Fate withstands, and, to oppose th' attempt,
Medusa with Gorgonian terror guards
The ford, and of itself the water flies
All taste of living wight, as once it fled
The lip of Tantalus. Thus roving on
In confused march forlorn, th' adventurous bands,
With shuddering horror pale, and eyes aghast,
Viewed first their lamentable lot, and found
No rest. Through many a dark and dreary vale
They passed, and many a region dolorous,
O'er many a frozen, many a fiery alp,
Rocks, caves, lakes, fens, bogs, dens, and shades of death--
A universe of death, which God by curse
Created evil, for evil only good;
Where all life dies, death lives, and Nature breeds,
Perverse, all monstrous, all prodigious things,
Obominable, inutterable, and worse
Than fables yet have feigned or fear conceived,
Gorgons, and Hydras, and Chimeras dire.
  Meanwhile the Adversary of God and Man,
Satan, with thoughts inflamed of highest design,
Puts on swift wings, and toward the gates of Hell
Explores his solitary flight: sometimes
He scours the right hand coast, sometimes the left;
Now shaves with level wing the deep, then soars
Up to the fiery concave towering high.
As when far off at sea a fleet descried
Hangs in the clouds, by equinoctial winds
Close sailing from Bengala, or the isles
Of Ternate and Tidore, whence merchants bring
Their spicy drugs; they on the trading flood,
Through the wide Ethiopian to the Cape,
Ply stemming nightly toward the pole: so seemed
Far off the flying Fiend. At last appear
Hell-bounds, high reaching to the horrid roof,
And thrice threefold the gates; three folds were brass,
Three iron, three of adamantine rock,
Impenetrable, impaled with circling fire,
Yet unconsumed. Before the gates there sat
On either side a formidable Shape.
The one seemed woman to the waist, and fair,
But ended foul in many a scaly fold,
Voluminous and vast--a serpent armed
With mortal sting. About her middle round
A cry of Hell-hounds never-ceasing barked
With wide Cerberean mouths full loud, and rung
A hideous peal; yet, when they list, would creep,
If aught disturbed their noise, into her womb,
And kennel there; yet there still barked and howled
Within unseen. Far less abhorred than these
Vexed Scylla, bathing in the sea that parts
Calabria from the hoarse Trinacrian shore;
Nor uglier follow the night-hag, when, called
In secret, riding through the air she comes,
Lured with the smell of infant blood, to dance
With Lapland witches, while the labouring moon
Eclipses at their charms. The other Shape--
If shape it might be called that shape had none
Distinguishable in member, joint, or limb;
Or substance might be called that shadow seemed,
For each seemed either--black it stood as Night,
Fierce as ten Furies, terrible as Hell,
And shook a dreadful dart: what seemed his head
The likeness of a kingly crown had on.
Satan was now at hand, and from his seat
The monster moving onward came as fast
With horrid strides; Hell trembled as he strode.
Th' undaunted Fiend what this might be admired--
Admired, not feared (God and his Son except,
Created thing naught valued he nor shunned),
And with disdainful look thus first began:--
  "Whence and what art thou, execrable Shape,
That dar'st, though grim and terrible, advance
Thy miscreated front athwart my way
To yonder gates? Through them I mean to pass,
That be assured, without leave asked of thee.
Retire; or taste thy folly, and learn by proof,
Hell-born, not to contend with Spirits of Heaven."
  To whom the Goblin, full of wrath, replied:--
"Art thou that traitor Angel? art thou he,
Who first broke peace in Heaven and faith, till then
Unbroken, and in proud rebellious arms
Drew after him the third part of Heaven's sons,
Conjured against the Highest--for which both thou
And they, outcast from God, are here condemned
To waste eternal days in woe and pain?
And reckon'st thou thyself with Spirits of Heaven
Hell-doomed, and breath'st defiance here and scorn,
Where I reign king, and, to enrage thee more,
Thy king and lord? Back to thy punishment,
False fugitive; and to thy speed add wings,
Lest with a whip of scorpions I pursue
Thy lingering, or with one stroke of this dart
Strange horror seize thee, and pangs unfelt before."
  So spake the grisly Terror, and in shape,
So speaking and so threatening, grew tenfold,
More dreadful and deform. On th' other side,
Incensed with indignation, Satan stood
Unterrified, and like a comet burned,
That fires the length of Ophiuchus huge
In th' arctic sky, and from his horrid hair
Shakes pestilence and war. Each at the head
Levelled his deadly aim; their fatal hands
No second stroke intend; and such a frown
Each cast at th' other as when two black clouds,
With heaven's artillery fraught, came rattling on
Over the Caspian,--then stand front to front
Hovering a space, till winds the signal blow
To join their dark encounter in mid-air.
So frowned the mighty combatants that Hell
Grew darker at their frown; so matched they stood;
For never but once more was wither like
To meet so great a foe. And now great deeds
Had been achieved, whereof all Hell had rung,
Had not the snaky Sorceress, that sat
Fast by Hell-gate and kept the fatal key,
Risen, and with hideous outcry rushed between.
  "O father, what intends thy hand," she cried,
"Against thy only son? What fury, O son,
Possesses thee to bend that mortal dart
Against thy father's head? And know'st for whom?
For him who sits above, and laughs the while
At thee, ordained his drudge to execute
Whate'er his wrath, which he calls justice, bids--
His wrath, which one day will destroy ye both!"
  She spake, and at her words the hellish Pest
Forbore: then these to her Satan returned:--
  "So strange thy outcry, and thy words so strange
Thou interposest, that my sudden hand,
Prevented, spares to tell thee yet by deeds
What it intends, till first I know of thee
What thing thou art, thus double-formed, and why,
In this infernal vale first met, thou call'st
Me father, and that phantasm call'st my son.
I know thee not, nor ever saw till now
Sight more detestable than him and thee."
  T' whom thus the Portress of Hell-gate replied:--
"Hast thou forgot me, then; and do I seem
Now in thine eye so foul?--once deemed so fair
In Heaven, when at th' assembly, and in sight
Of all the Seraphim with thee combined
In bold conspiracy against Heaven's King,
All on a sudden miserable pain
Surprised thee, dim thine eyes and dizzy swum
In darkness, while thy head flames thick and fast
Threw forth, till on the left side opening wide,
Likest to thee in shape and countenance bright,
Then shining heavenly fair, a goddess armed,
Out of thy head I sprung. Amazement seized
All th' host of Heaven; back they recoiled afraid
At first, and called me Sin, and for a sign
Portentous held me; but, familiar grown,
I pleased, and with attractive graces won
The most averse--thee chiefly, who, full oft
Thyself in me thy perfect image viewing,
Becam'st enamoured; and such joy thou took'st
With me in secret that my womb conceived
A growing burden. Meanwhile war arose,
And fields were fought in Heaven: wherein remained
(For what could else?) to our Almighty Foe
Clear victory; to our part loss and rout
Through all the Empyrean. Down they fell,
Driven headlong from the pitch of Heaven, down
Into this Deep; and in the general fall
I also: at which time this powerful key
Into my hands was given, with charge to keep
These gates for ever shut, which none can pass
Without my opening. Pensive here I sat
Alone; but long I sat not, till my womb,
Pregnant by thee, and now excessive grown,
Prodigious motion felt and rueful throes.
At last this odious offspring whom thou seest,
Thine own begotten, breaking violent way,
Tore through my entrails, that, with fear and pain
Distorted, all my nether shape thus grew
Transformed: but he my inbred enemy
Forth issued, brandishing his fatal dart,
Made to destroy. I fled, and cried out Death!
Hell trembled at the hideous name, and sighed
From all her caves, and back resounded Death!
I fled; but he pursued (though more, it seems,
Inflamed with lust than rage), and, swifter far,
Me overtook, his mother, all dismayed,
And, in embraces forcible and foul
Engendering with me, of that rape begot
These yelling monsters, that with ceaseless cry
Surround me, as thou saw'st--hourly conceived
And hourly born, with sorrow infinite
To me; for, when they list, into the womb
That bred them they return, and howl, and gnaw
My bowels, their repast; then, bursting forth
Afresh, with conscious terrors vex me round,
That rest or intermission none I find.
Before mine eyes in opposition sits
Grim Death, my son and foe, who set them on,
And me, his parent, would full soon devour
For want of other prey, but that he knows
His end with mine involved, and knows that I
Should prove a bitter morsel, and his bane,
Whenever that shall be: so Fate pronounced.
But thou, O father, I forewarn thee, shun
His deadly arrow; neither vainly hope
To be invulnerable in those bright arms,
Through tempered heavenly; for that mortal dint,
Save he who reigns above, none can resist."
  She finished; and the subtle Fiend his lore
Soon learned, now milder, and thus answered smooth:--
  "Dear daughter--since thou claim'st me for thy sire,
And my fair son here show'st me, the dear pledge
Of dalliance had with thee in Heaven, and joys
Then sweet, now sad to mention, through dire change
Befallen us unforeseen, unthought-of--know,
I come no enemy, but to set free
From out this dark and dismal house of pain
Both him and thee, and all the heavenly host
Of Spirits that, in our just pretences armed,
Fell with us from on high. From them I go
This uncouth errand sole, and one for all
Myself expose, with lonely steps to tread
Th' unfounded Deep, and through the void immense
To search, with wandering quest, a place foretold
Should be--and, by concurring signs, ere now
Created vast and round--a place of bliss
In the purlieus of Heaven; and therein placed
A race of upstart creatures, to supply
Perhaps our vacant room, though more removed,
Lest Heaven, surcharged with potent multitude,
Might hap to move new broils. Be this, or aught
Than this more secret, now designed, I haste
To know; and, this once known, shall soon return,
And bring ye to the place where thou and Death
Shall dwell at ease, and up and down unseen
Wing silently the buxom air, embalmed
With odours. There ye shall be fed and filled
Immeasurably; all things shall be your prey."
  He ceased; for both seemed highly pleased, and Death
Grinned horrible a ghastly smile, to hear
His famine should be filled, and blessed his maw
Destined to that good hour. No less rejoiced
His mother bad, and thus bespake her sire:--
  "The key of this infernal Pit, by due
And by command of Heaven's all-powerful King,
I keep, by him forbidden to unlock
These adamantine gates; against all force
Death ready stands to interpose his dart,
Fearless to be o'ermatched by living might.
But what owe I to his commands above,
Who hates me, and hath hither thrust me down
Into this gloom of Tartarus profound,
To sit in hateful office here confined,
Inhabitant of Heaven and heavenly born--
Here in perpetual agony and pain,
With terrors and with clamours compassed round
Of mine own brood, that on my bowels feed?
Thou art my father, thou my author, thou
My being gav'st me; whom should I obey
But thee? whom follow? Thou wilt bring me soon
To that new world of light and bliss, among
The gods who live at ease, where I shall reign
At thy right hand voluptuous, as beseems
Thy daughter and thy darling, without end."
  Thus saying, from her side the fatal key,
Sad instrument of all our woe, she took;
And, towards the gate rolling her bestial train,
Forthwith the huge portcullis high up-drew,
Which, but herself, not all the Stygian Powers
Could once have moved; then in the key-hole turns
Th' intricate wards, and every bolt and bar
Of massy iron or solid rock with ease
Unfastens. On a sudden open fly,
With impetuous recoil and jarring sound,
Th' infernal doors, and on their hinges grate
Harsh thunder, that the lowest bottom shook
Of Erebus. She opened; but to shut
Excelled her power: the gates wide open stood,
That with extended wings a bannered host,
Under spread ensigns marching, mibht pass through
With horse and chariots ranked in loose array;
So wide they stood, and like a furnace-mouth
Cast forth redounding smoke and ruddy flame.
Before their eyes in sudden view appear
The secrets of the hoary Deep--a dark
Illimitable ocean, without bound,
Without dimension; where length, breadth, and height,
And time, and place, are lost; where eldest Night
And Chaos, ancestors of Nature, hold
Eternal anarchy, amidst the noise
Of endless wars, and by confusion stand.
For Hot, Cold, Moist, and Dry, four champions fierce,
Strive here for mastery, and to battle bring
Their embryon atoms: they around the flag
Of each his faction, in their several clans,
Light-armed or heavy, sharp, smooth, swift, or slow,
Swarm populous, unnumbered as the sands
Of Barca or Cyrene's torrid soil,
Levied to side with warring winds, and poise
Their lighter wings. To whom these most adhere
He rules a moment: Chaos umpire sits,
And by decision more embroils the fray
By which he reigns: next him, high arbiter,
Chance governs all. Into this wild Abyss,
The womb of Nature, and perhaps her grave,
Of neither sea, nor shore, nor air, nor fire,
But all these in their pregnant causes mixed
Confusedly, and which thus must ever fight,
Unless th' Almighty Maker them ordain
His dark materials to create more worlds--
Into this wild Abyss the wary Fiend
Stood on the brink of Hell and looked a while,
Pondering his voyage; for no narrow frith
He had to cross. Nor was his ear less pealed
With noises loud and ruinous (to compare
Great things with small) than when Bellona storms
With all her battering engines, bent to rase
Some capital city; or less than if this frame
Of Heaven were falling, and these elements
In mutiny had from her axle torn
The steadfast Earth. At last his sail-broad vans
He spread for flight, and, in the surging smoke
Uplifted, spurns the ground; thence many a league,
As in a cloudy chair, ascending rides
Audacious; but, that seat soon failing, meets
A vast vacuity. All unawares,
Fluttering his pennons vain, plumb-down he drops
Ten thousand fathom deep, and to this hour
Down had been falling, had not, by ill chance,
The strong rebuff of some tumultuous cloud,
Instinct with fire and nitre, hurried him
As many miles aloft. That fury stayed--
Quenched in a boggy Syrtis, neither sea,
Nor good dry land--nigh foundered, on he fares,
Treading the crude consistence, half on foot,
Half flying; behoves him now both oar and sail.
As when a gryphon through the wilderness
With winged course, o'er hill or moory dale,
Pursues the Arimaspian, who by stealth
Had from his wakeful custody purloined
The guarded gold; so eagerly the Fiend
O'er bog or steep, through strait, rough, dense, or rare,
With head, hands, wings, or feet, pursues his way,
And swims, or sinks, or wades, or creeps, or flies.
At length a universal hubbub wild
Of stunning sounds, and voices all confused,
Borne through the hollow dark, assaults his ear
With loudest vehemence. Thither he plies
Undaunted, to meet there whatever Power
Or Spirit of the nethermost Abyss
Might in that noise reside, of whom to ask
Which way the nearest coast of darkness lies
Bordering on light; when straight behold the throne
Of Chaos, and his dark pavilion spread
Wide on the wasteful Deep! With him enthroned
Sat sable-vested Night, eldest of things,
The consort of his reign; and by them stood
Orcus and Ades, and the dreaded name
Of Demogorgon; Rumour next, and Chance,
And Tumult, and Confusion, all embroiled,
And Discord with a thousand various mouths.
  T' whom Satan, turning boldly, thus:--"Ye Powers
And Spirtis of this nethermost Abyss,
Chaos and ancient Night, I come no spy
With purpose to explore or to disturb
The secrets of your realm; but, by constraint
Wandering this darksome desert, as my way
Lies through your spacious empire up to light,
Alone and without guide, half lost, I seek,
What readiest path leads where your gloomy bounds
Confine with Heaven; or, if some other place,
From your dominion won, th' Ethereal King
Possesses lately, thither to arrive
I travel this profound. Direct my course:
Directed, no mean recompense it brings
To your behoof, if I that region lost,
All usurpation thence expelled, reduce
To her original darkness and your sway
(Which is my present journey), and once more
Erect the standard there of ancient Night.
Yours be th' advantage all, mine the revenge!"
  Thus Satan; and him thus the Anarch old,
With faltering speech and visage incomposed,
Answered:  "I know thee, stranger, who thou art--  ***
That mighty leading Angel, who of late
Made head against Heaven's King, though overthrown.
I saw and heard; for such a numerous host
Fled not in silence through the frighted Deep,
With ruin upon ruin, rout on rout,
Confusion worse confounded; and Heaven-gates
Poured out by millions her victorious bands,
Pursuing. I upon my frontiers here
Keep residence; if all I can will serve
That little which is left so to defend,
Encroached on still through our intestine broils
Weakening the sceptre of old Night: first, Hell,
Your dungeon, stretching far and wide beneath;
Now lately Heaven and Earth, another world
Hung o'er my realm, linked in a golden chain
To that side Heaven from whence your legions fell!
If that way be your walk, you have not far;
So much the nearer danger. Go, and speed;
Havoc, and spoil, and ruin, are my gain."
  He ceased; and Satan stayed not to reply,
But, glad that now his sea should find a shore,
With fresh alacrity and force renewed
Springs upward, like a pyramid of fire,
Into the wild expanse, and through the shock
Of fighting elements, on all sides round
Environed, wins his way; harder beset
And more endangered than when Argo passed
Through Bosporus betwixt the justling rocks,
Or when Ulysses on the larboard shunned
Charybdis, and by th' other whirlpool steered.
So he with difficulty and labour hard
Moved on, with difficulty and labour he;
But, he once passed, soon after, when Man fell,
Strange alteration! Sin and Death amain,
Following his track (such was the will of Heaven)
Paved after him a broad and beaten way
Over the dark Abyss, whose boiling gulf
Tamely endured a bridge of wondrous length,
From Hell continued, reaching th' utmost orb
Of this frail World; by which the Spirits perverse
With easy intercourse pass to and fro
To tempt or punish mortals, except whom
God and good Angels guard by special grace.
  But now at last the sacred influence
Of light appears, and from the walls of Heaven
Shoots far into the bosom of dim Night
A glimmering dawn. Here Nature first begins
Her farthest verge, and Chaos to retire,
As from her outmost works, a broken foe,
With tumult less and with less hostile din;
That Satan with less toil, and now with ease,
Wafts on the calmer wave by dubious light,
And, like a weather-beaten vessel, holds
Gladly the port, though shrouds and tackle torn;
Or in the emptier waste, resembling air,
Weighs his spread wings, at leisure to behold
Far off th' empyreal Heaven, extended wide
In circuit, undetermined square or round,
With opal towers and battlements adorned
Of living sapphire, once his native seat;
And, fast by, hanging in a golden chain,
This pendent World, in bigness as a star
Of smallest magnitude close by the moon.
Thither, full fraught with mischievous revenge,
Accursed, and in a cursed hour, he hies.



Book III


Hail, holy Light, offspring of Heaven firstborn,
Or of the Eternal coeternal beam
May I express thee unblam'd?  since God is light,
And never but in unapproached light
Dwelt from eternity, dwelt then in thee
Bright effluence of bright essence increate.
Or hear"st thou rather pure ethereal stream,
Whose fountain who shall tell?  before the sun,
Before the Heavens thou wert, and at the voice
Of God, as with a mantle, didst invest  ***
The rising world of waters dark and deep,
Won from the void and formless infinite.
Thee I re-visit now with bolder wing,
Escap'd the Stygian pool, though long detain'd
In that obscure sojourn, while in my flight
Through utter and through middle darkness borne,
With other notes than to the Orphean lyre
I sung of Chaos and eternal Night;
Taught by the heavenly Muse to venture down
The dark descent, and up to re-ascend,
Though hard and rare:  Thee I revisit safe,
And feel thy sovran vital lamp; but thou
Revisit'st not these eyes, that roll in vain
To find thy piercing ray, and find no dawn;
So  thick a drop serene hath quench'd their orbs,
Or dim suffusion veil'd.  Yet not the more
Cease I to wander, where the Muses haunt,
Clear spring, or shady grove, or sunny hill,
Smit with the love of sacred song; but chief
Thee, Sion, and the flowery brooks beneath,
That wash thy hallow'd feet, and warbling flow,
Nightly I visit:  nor sometimes forget
So were I equall'd with them in renown,
Thy sovran command, that Man should find grace;
Blind Thamyris, and blind Maeonides,
And Tiresias, and Phineus, prophets old:
Then feed on thoughts, that voluntary move
Harmonious numbers; as the wakeful bird
Sings darkling, and in shadiest covert hid
Tunes her nocturnal note.  Thus with the year
Seasons return; but not to me returns
Day, or the sweet approach of even or morn,
Or sight of vernal bloom, or summer's rose,
Or flocks, or herds, or human face divine;
But cloud instead, and ever-during dark
Surrounds me, from the cheerful ways of men
Cut off, and for the book of knowledge fair
Presented with a universal blank
Of nature's works to me expung'd and ras'd,
And wisdom at one entrance quite shut out.
So much the rather thou, celestial Light,
Shine inward, and the mind through all her powers
Irradiate; there plant eyes, all mist from thence
Purge and disperse, that I may see and tell
Of things invisible to mortal sight.
Now had the Almighty Father from above,
From the pure empyrean where he sits
High thron'd above all highth, bent down his eye
His own works and their works at once to view:
About him all the Sanctities of Heaven
Stood thick as stars, and from his sight receiv'd
Beatitude past utterance; on his right
The radiant image of his glory sat,
His only son; on earth he first beheld
Our two first parents, yet the only two
Of mankind in the happy garden plac'd
Reaping immortal fruits of joy and love,
Uninterrupted joy, unrivall'd love,
In blissful solitude; he then survey'd
Hell and the gulf between, and Satan there
Coasting the wall of Heaven on this side Night
In the dun air sublime, and ready now
To stoop with wearied wings, and willing feet,
On the bare outside of this world, that seem'd
Firm land imbosom'd, without firmament,
Uncertain which, in ocean or in air.
Him God beholding from his prospect high,
Wherein past, present, future, he beholds,
Thus to his only Son foreseeing spake.
Only begotten Son, seest thou what rage
Transports our Adversary?  whom no bounds
Prescrib'd no bars of Hell, nor all the chains
Heap'd on him there, nor yet the main abyss
Wide interrupt, can hold; so bent he seems
On desperate revenge, that shall redound
Upon his own rebellious head.  And now,
Through all restraint broke loose, he wings his way
Not far off Heaven, in the precincts of light,
Directly towards the new created world,
And man there plac'd, with purpose to assay
If him by force he can destroy, or, worse,
By some false guile pervert; and shall pervert;
For man will hearken to his glozing lies,
And easily transgress the sole command,
Sole pledge of his obedience:  So will fall
He and his faithless progeny:  Whose fault?
Whose but his own?  ingrate, he had of me
All he could have; I made him just and right,
Sufficient to have stood, though free to fall.
Such I created all the ethereal Powers
And Spirits, both them who stood, and them who fail'd;
Freely they stood who stood, and fell who fell.
Not free, what proof could they have given sincere
Of true allegiance, constant faith or love,
Where only what they needs must do appear'd,
Not what they would?  what praise could they receive?
What pleasure I from such obedience paid,
When will and reason (reason also is choice)
Useless and vain, of freedom both despoil'd,
Made passive both, had serv'd necessity,
Not me?  they therefore, as to right belong$ 'd,
So were created, nor can justly accuse
Their Maker, or their making, or their fate,
As if predestination over-rul'd
Their will dispos'd by absolute decree
Or high foreknowledge they themselves decreed
Their own revolt, not I; if I foreknew,
Foreknowledge had no influence on their fault,
Which had no less proved certain unforeknown.
So without least impulse or shadow of fate,
Or aught by me immutably foreseen,
They trespass, authors to themselves in all
Both what they judge, and what they choose; for so
I form'd them free: and free they must remain,
Till they enthrall themselves; I else must change
Their nature, and revoke the high decree
Unchangeable, eternal, which ordain'd
$THeir freedom: they themselves ordain'd their fall.
The first sort by their own suggestion fell,
Self-tempted, self-deprav'd:  Man falls, deceiv'd
By the other first:  Man therefore shall find grace,
The other none:  In mercy and justice both,
Through Heaven and Earth, so shall my glory excel;
But Mercy, first and last, shall brightest shine.
Thus while God spake, ambrosial fragrance fill'd
All Heaven, and in the blessed Spirits elect
Sense of new joy ineffable diffus'd.
Beyond compare the Son of God was seen
Most glorious; in him all his Father shone
Substantially express'd; and in his face
Divine compassion visibly appear'd,
Love without end, and without measure grace,
Which uttering, thus he to his Father spake.
O Father, gracious was that word which clos'd
Thy sovran command, that Man should find grace;
, that Man should find grace;
For which both Heaven and earth shall high extol
Thy praises, with the innumerable sound
Of hymns and sacred songs, wherewith thy throne
Encompass'd shall resound thee ever blest.
For should Man finally be lost, should Man,
Thy creature late so lov'd, thy youngest son,
Fall circumvented thus by fraud, though join'd
With his own folly?  that be from thee far,
That far be from thee, Father, who art judge
Of all things made, and judgest only right.
Or shall the Adversary thus obtain
His end, and frustrate thine?  shall he fulfill
His malice, and thy goodness bring to nought,
Or proud return, though to his heavier doom,
Yet with revenge accomplish'd, and to Hell
Draw after him the whole race of mankind,
By him corrupted?  or wilt thou thyself
Abolish thy creation, and unmake
For him, what for thy glory thou hast made?
So should thy goodness and thy greatness both
Be question'd and blasphem'd without defence.
To whom the great Creator thus replied.
O son, in whom my soul hath chief delight,
Son of my bosom, Son who art alone.
My word, my wisdom, and effectual might,
All hast thou spoken as my thoughts are, all
As my eternal purpose hath decreed;
Man shall not quite be lost, but sav'd who will;
Yet not of will in him, but grace in me
Freely vouchsaf'd; once more I will renew
His lapsed powers, though forfeit; and enthrall'd
By sin to foul exorbitant desires;
Upheld by me, yet once more he shall stand
On even ground against his mortal foe;
By me upheld, that he may know how frail
His fallen condition is, and to me owe
All his deliverance, and to none but me.
Some I have chosen of peculiar grace,
Elect above the rest; so is my will:
The rest shall hear me call, and oft be warn'd
Their sinful state, and to appease betimes
The incensed Deity, while offer'd grace
Invites; for I will clear their senses dark,
What may suffice, and soften stony hearts
To pray, repent, and bring obedience due.
To prayer, repentance, and obedience due,
Though but endeavour'd with sincere intent,
Mine ear shall not be slow, mine eye not shut.
And I will place within them as a guide,
My umpire Conscience; whom if they will hear,
Light after light, well us'd, they shall attain,
And to the end, persisting, safe arrive.
This my long sufferance, and my day of grace,
They who neglect and scorn, shall never taste;
But hard be harden'd, blind be blinded more,
That they may stumble on, and deeper fall;
And none but such from mercy I exclude.
But yet all is not done; Man disobeying,
Disloyal, breaks his fealty, and sins
Against the high supremacy of Heaven,
Affecting God-head, and, so losing all,
To expiate his treason hath nought left,
But to destruction sacred and devote,
He, with his whole posterity, must die,
Die he or justice must; unless for him
Some other able, and as willing, pay
The rigid satisfaction, death for death.
Say, heavenly Powers, where shall we find such love?
Which of you will be mortal, to redeem
Man's mortal crime, and just the unjust to save?
Dwells in all Heaven charity so dear?
And silence was in Heaven: $ on Man's behalf
He ask'd, but all the heavenly quire stood mute,
Patron or intercessour none appear'd,
Much less that durst upon his own head draw
The deadly forfeiture, and ransom set.
And now without redemption all mankind
Must have been lost, adjudg'd to Death and Hell
By doom severe, had not the Son of God,
In whom the fulness dwells of love divine,
His dearest mediation thus renew'd.
Father, thy word is past, Man shall find grace;
And shall grace not find means, that finds her way,
The speediest of thy winged messengers,
To visit all thy creatures, and to all
Comes unprevented, unimplor'd, unsought?
Happy for Man, so coming; he her aid
Can never seek, once dead in sins, and lost;
Atonement for himself, or offering meet,
Indebted and undone, hath none to bring;
Behold me then:  me for him, life for life
I offer: on me let thine anger fall;
Account me Man; I for his sake will leave
 Thy bosom, and this glory next to thee
 Freely put off, and for him lastly die
 Well pleased; on me let Death wreak all his rage.
 Under his gloomy power I shall not long
 Lie vanquished. Thou hast given me to possess
 Life in myself for ever; by thee I live;
 Though now to Death I yield, and am his due,
 All that of me can die, yet, that debt paid,
 $ thou wilt not leave me in the loathsome grave
 His prey, nor suffer my unspotted soul
 For ever with corruption there to dwell;
 But I shall rise victorious, and subdue
 My vanquisher, spoiled of his vaunted spoil.
 Death his death's wound shall then receive, and stoop
 Inglorious, of his mortal sting disarmed;
 I through the ample air in triumph high
 Shall lead Hell captive maugre Hell, and show
The powers of darkness bound. Thou, at the sight
 Pleased, out of Heaven shalt look down and smile,
 While, by thee raised, I ruin all my foes;
 Death last, and with his carcase glut the grave;
 Then, with the multitude of my redeemed,
 Shall enter Heaven, long absent, and return,
 Father, to see thy face, wherein no cloud
 Of anger shall remain, but peace assured
 And reconcilement: wrath shall be no more
 Thenceforth, but in thy presence joy entire.
 His words here ended; but his meek aspect
 Silent yet spake, and breathed immortal love
 To mortal men, above which only shone
 Filial obedience: as a sacrifice
 Glad to be offered, he attends the will
 Of his great Father. Admiration seized
 All Heaven, what this might mean, and whither tend,
 Wondering; but soon th' Almighty thus replied.
 O thou in Heaven and Earth the only peace
 Found out for mankind under wrath, O thou
 My sole complacence! Well thou know'st how dear
 To me are all my works; nor Man the least,
 Though last created, that for him I spare
 Thee from my bosom and right hand, to save,
 By losing thee a while, the whole race lost.

     00021053
 Thou, therefore, whom thou only canst redeem,
 Their nature also to thy nature join;
 And be thyself Man among men on Earth,
 Made flesh, when time shall be, of virgin seed,
 By wondrous birth; be thou in Adam's room
The head of all mankind, though Adam's son.
As in him perish all men, so in thee,
As from a second root, shall be restored
As many as are restored, without thee none.
His crime makes guilty all his sons; thy merit,
Imputed, shall absolve them who renounce
Their own both righteous and unrighteous deeds,
And live in thee transplanted, and from thee
Receive new life.  So Man, as is most just,
Shall satisfy for Man, be judged and die,
And dying rise, and rising with him raise
His brethren, ransomed with his own dear life.
So heavenly love shall outdo hellish hate,
Giving to death, and dying to redeem,
So dearly to redeem what hellish hate
So easily destroyed, and still destroys
In those who, when they may, accept not grace.
Nor shalt thou, by descending to assume
Man's nature, lessen or degrade thine own.
Because thou hast, though throned in highest bliss
Equal to God, and equally enjoying
God-like fruition, quitted all, to save
A world from utter loss, and hast been found
By merit more than birthright Son of God,
Found worthiest to be so by being good,
Far more than great or high; because in thee
Love hath abounded more than glory abounds;
Therefore thy humiliation shall exalt
With thee thy manhood also to this throne:
Here shalt thou sit incarnate, here shalt reign
Both God and Man, Son both of God and Man,
Anointed universal King; all power
I give thee; reign for ever, and assume
Thy merits; under thee, as head supreme,
Thrones, Princedoms, Powers, Dominions, I reduce:
All knees to thee shall bow, of them that bide
In Heaven, or Earth, or under Earth in Hell.
When thou, attended gloriously from Heaven,
Shalt in the sky appear, and from thee send
The summoning Arch-Angels to proclaim
Thy dread tribunal; forthwith from all winds,
The living, and forthwith the cited dead
Of all past ages, to the general doom
Shall hasten; such a peal shall rouse their sleep.
Then, all thy saints assembled, thou shalt judge
Bad Men and Angels; they, arraigned, shall sink
Beneath thy sentence; Hell, her numbers full,
Thenceforth shall be for ever shut.  Mean while
The world shall burn, and from her ashes spring
New Heaven and Earth, wherein the just shall dwell,
And, after all their tribulations long,
See golden days, fruitful of golden deeds,
With joy and peace triumphing, and fair truth.
Then thou thy regal scepter shalt lay by,
For regal scepter then no more shall need,
God shall be all in all.  But, all ye Gods,
Adore him, who to compass all this dies;
Adore the Son, and honour him as me.
No sooner had the Almighty ceased, but all
The multitude of Angels, with a shout
Loud as from numbers without number, sweet
As from blest voices, uttering joy, Heaven rung
With jubilee, and loud Hosannas filled
The eternal regions:  Lowly reverent
Towards either throne they bow, and to the ground
With solemn adoration down they cast
Their crowns inwove with amarant and gold;
Immortal amarant, a flower which once
In Paradise, fast by the tree of life,
Began to bloom; but soon for man's offence
To Heaven removed, where first it grew, there grows,
And flowers aloft shading the fount of life,
And where the river of bliss through midst of Heaven
Rolls o'er Elysian flowers her amber stream;
With these that never fade the Spirits elect
Bind their resplendent locks inwreathed with beams;
Now in loose garlands thick thrown off, the bright
Pavement, that like a sea of jasper shone,
Impurpled with celestial roses smiled.
Then, crowned again, their golden harps they took,
Harps ever tuned, that glittering by their side
Like quivers hung, and with preamble sweet
Of charming symphony they introduce
Their sacred song, and waken raptures high;
No voice exempt, no voice but well could join
Melodious part, such concord is in Heaven.
Thee, Father, first they sung Omnipotent,
Immutable, Immortal, Infinite,
Eternal King; the Author of all being,
Fonntain of light, thyself invisible
Amidst the glorious brightness where thou sit'st
Throned inaccessible, but when thou shadest
The full blaze of thy beams, and, through a cloud
Drawn round about thee like a radiant shrine,
Dark with excessive bright thy skirts appear,
Yet dazzle Heaven, that brightest Seraphim
Approach not, but with both wings veil their eyes.
Thee next they sang of all creation first,
Begotten Son, Divine Similitude,
In whose conspicuous countenance, without cloud
Made visible, the Almighty Father shines,
Whom else no creature can behold; on thee
Impressed the effulgence of his glory abides,
Transfused on thee his ample Spirit rests.
He Heaven of Heavens and all the Powers therein
By thee created; and by thee threw down
The aspiring Dominations:  Thou that day
Thy Father's dreadful thunder didst not spare,
Nor stop thy flaming chariot-wheels, that shook
Heaven's everlasting frame, while o'er the necks
Thou drovest of warring Angels disarrayed.
Back from pursuit thy Powers with loud acclaim
Thee only extolled, Son of thy Father's might,
To execute fierce vengeance on his foes,
Not so on Man:  Him through their malice fallen,
Father of mercy and grace, thou didst not doom
So strictly, but much more to pity incline:
No sooner did thy dear and only Son
Perceive thee purposed not to doom frail Man
So strictly, but much more to pity inclined,
He to appease thy wrath, and end the strife
Of mercy and justice in thy face discerned,
Regardless of the bliss wherein he sat
Second to thee, offered himself to die
For Man's offence.  O unexampled love,
Love no where to be found less than Divine!
Hail, Son of God, Saviour of Men!  Thy name
Shall be the copious matter of my song
Henceforth, and never shall my heart thy praise
Forget, nor from thy Father's praise disjoin.
Thus they in Heaven, above the starry sphere,
Their happy hours in joy and hymning spent.
Mean while upon the firm opacous globe
Of this round world, whose first convex divides
The luminous inferiour orbs, enclosed
From Chaos, and the inroad of Darkness old,
Satan alighted walks:  A globe far off
It seemed, now seems a boundless continent
Dark, waste, and wild, under the frown of Night
Starless exposed, and ever-threatening storms
Of Chaos blustering round, inclement sky;
Save on that side which from the wall of Heaven,
Though distant far, some small reflection gains
Of glimmering air less vexed with tempest loud:
Here walked the Fiend at large in spacious field.
As when a vultur on Imaus bred,
Whose snowy ridge the roving Tartar bounds,
Dislodging from a region scarce of prey
To gorge the flesh of lambs or yeanling kids,
On hills where flocks are fed, flies toward the springs
Of Ganges or Hydaspes, Indian streams;
But in his way lights on the barren plains
Of Sericana, where Chineses drive
With sails and wind their cany waggons light:
So, on this windy sea of land, the Fiend
Walked up and down alone, bent on his prey;
Alone, for other creature in this place,
Living or lifeless, to be found was none;
None yet, but store hereafter from the earth
Up hither like aereal vapours flew
Of all things transitory and vain, when sin
With vanity had filled the works of men:
Both all things vain, and all who in vain things
Built their fond hopes of glory or lasting fame,
Or happiness in this or the other life;
All who have their reward on earth, the fruits
Of painful superstition and blind zeal,
Nought seeking but the praise of men, here find
Fit retribution, empty as their deeds;
All the unaccomplished works of Nature's hand,
Abortive, monstrous, or unkindly mixed,
Dissolved on earth, fleet hither, and in vain,
Till final dissolution, wander here;
Not in the neighbouring moon as some have dreamed;
Those argent fields more likely habitants,
Translated Saints, or middle Spirits hold
Betwixt the angelical and human kind.
Hither of ill-joined sons and daughters born
First from the ancient world those giants came
With many a vain exploit, though then renowned:
The builders next of Babel on the plain
Of Sennaar, and still with vain design,
New Babels, had they wherewithal, would build:
Others came single; he, who, to be deemed
A God, leaped fondly into Aetna flames,
Empedocles; and he, who, to enjoy
Plato's Elysium, leaped into the sea,
Cleombrotus; and many more too long,
Embryos, and idiots, eremites, and friars
White, black, and gray, with all their trumpery.
Here pilgrims roam, that strayed so far to seek
In Golgotha him dead, who lives in Heaven;
And they, who to be sure of Paradise,
Dying, put on the weeds of Dominick,
Or in Franciscan think to pass disguised;
They pass the planets seven, and pass the fixed,
And that crystalling sphere whose balance weighs
The trepidation talked, and that first moved;
And now Saint Peter at Heaven's wicket seems
To wait them with his keys, and now at foot
Of Heaven's ascent they lift their feet, when lo
A violent cross wind from either coast
Blows them transverse, ten thousand leagues awry
Into the devious air:  Then might ye see
Cowls, hoods, and habits, with their wearers, tost
And fluttered into rags; then reliques, beads,
Indulgences, dispenses, pardons, bulls,
The sport of winds:  All these, upwhirled aloft,
Fly o'er the backside of the world far off
Into a Limbo large and broad, since called
The Paradise of Fools, to few unknown
Long after; now unpeopled, and untrod.
All this dark globe the Fiend found as he passed,
And long he wandered, till at last a gleam
Of dawning light turned thither-ward in haste
His travelled steps: far distant he descries
Ascending by degrees magnificent
Up to the wall of Heaven a structure high;
At top whereof, but far more rich, appeared
The work as of a kingly palace-gate,
With frontispiece of diamond and gold
Embellished; thick with sparkling orient gems
The portal shone, inimitable on earth
By model, or by shading pencil, drawn.
These stairs were such as whereon Jacob saw
Angels ascending and descending, bands
Of guardians bright, when he from Esau fled
To Padan-Aram, in the field of Luz
Dreaming by night under the open sky
And waking cried,  This is the gate of Heaven.
Each stair mysteriously was meant, nor stood
There always, but drawn up to Heaven sometimes
Viewless; and underneath a bright sea flowed
Of jasper, or of liquid pearl, whereon
Who after came from earth, failing arrived
Wafted by Angels, or flew o'er the lake
Rapt in a chariot drawn by fiery steeds.
The stairs were then let down, whether to dare
The Fiend by easy ascent, or aggravate
His sad exclusion from the doors of bliss:
Direct against which opened from beneath,
Just o'er the blissful seat of Paradise,
A passage down to the Earth, a passage wide,
Wider by far than that of after-times
Over mount Sion, and, though that were large,
Over the Promised Land to God so dear;
By which, to visit oft those happy tribes,
On high behests his angels to and fro
Passed frequent, and his eye with choice regard
From Paneas, the fount of Jordan's flood,
To Beersaba, where the Holy Land
Borders on Egypt and the Arabian shore;
So wide the opening seemed, where bounds were set
To darkness, such as bound the ocean wave.
Satan from hence, now on the lower stair,
That scaled by steps of gold to Heaven-gate,
Looks down with wonder at the sudden view
Of all this world at once.  As when a scout,
Through dark?;nd desart ways with?oeril gone
All?might,?;t?kast by break of cheerful dawn
Obtains the brow of some high-climbing hill,
Which to his eye discovers unaware
The goodly prospect of some foreign land
First seen, or some renowned metropolis
With glistering spires and pinnacles adorned,
Which now the rising sun gilds with his beams:
Such wonder seised, though after Heaven seen,
The Spirit malign, but much more envy seised,
At sight of all this world beheld so fair.
Round he surveys (and well might, where he stood
So high above the circling canopy
Of night's extended shade,) from eastern point
Of Libra to the fleecy star that bears
Andromeda far off Atlantick seas
Beyond the horizon; then from pole to pole
He views in breadth, and without longer pause
Down right into the world's first region throws
His flight precipitant, and winds with ease
Through the pure marble air his oblique way
Amongst innumerable stars, that shone
Stars distant, but nigh hand seemed other worlds;
Or other worlds they seemed, or happy isles,
Like those Hesperian gardens famed of old,
Fortunate fields, and groves, and flowery vales,
Thrice happy isles; but who dwelt happy there
He staid not to inquire:  Above them all
The golden sun, in splendour likest Heaven,
Allured his eye; thither his course he bends
Through the calm firmament, (but up or down,
By center, or eccentrick, hard to tell,
Or longitude,) where the great luminary
Aloof the vulgar constellations thick,
That from his lordly eye keep distance due,
Dispenses light from far; they, as they move
Their starry dance in numbers that compute
Days, months, and years, towards his all-cheering lamp
Turn swift their various motions, or are turned
By his magnetick beam, that gently warms
The universe, and to each inward part
With gentle penetration, though unseen,
Shoots invisible virtue even to the deep;
So wonderously was set his station bright.
There lands the Fiend, a spot like which perhaps
Astronomer in the sun's lucent orb
Through his glazed optick tube yet never saw.
The place he found beyond expression bright,
Compared with aught on earth, metal or stone;
Not all parts like, but all alike informed
With radiant light, as glowing iron with fire;
If metal, part seemed gold, part silver clear;
If stone, carbuncle most or chrysolite,
Ruby or topaz, to the twelve that shone
In Aaron's breast-plate, and a stone besides
Imagined rather oft than elsewhere seen,
That stone, or like to that which here below
Philosophers in vain so long have sought,
In vain, though by their powerful art they bind
Volatile Hermes, and call up unbound
In various shapes old Proteus from the sea,
Drained through a limbeck to his native form.
What wonder then if fields and regions here
Breathe forth Elixir pure, and rivers run
Potable gold, when with one virtuous touch
The arch-chemick sun, so far from us remote,
Produces, with terrestrial humour mixed,
Here in the dark so many precious things
Of colour glorious, and effect so rare?
Here matter new to gaze the Devil met
Undazzled; far and wide his eye commands;
For sight no obstacle found here, nor shade,
But all sun-shine, as when his beams at noon
Culminate from the equator, as they now
Shot upward still direct, whence no way round
Shadow from body opaque can fall; and the air,
No where so clear, sharpened his visual ray
To objects distant far, whereby he soon
Saw within ken a glorious Angel stand,
The same whom John saw also in the sun:
His back was turned, but not his brightness hid;
Of beaming sunny rays a golden tiar
Circled his head, nor less his locks behind
Illustrious on his shoulders fledge with wings
Lay waving round; on some great charge employed
He seemed, or fixed in cogitation deep.
Glad was the Spirit impure, as now in hope
To find who might direct his wandering flight
To Paradise, the happy seat of Man,
His journey's end and our beginning woe.
But first he casts to change his proper shape,
Which else might work him danger or delay:
And now a stripling Cherub he appears,
Not of the prime, yet such as in his face
Youth smiled celestial, and to every limb
Suitable grace diffused, so well he feigned:
Under a coronet his flowing hair
In curls on either cheek played; wings he wore
Of many a coloured plume, sprinkled with gold;
His habit fit for speed succinct, and held
Before his decent steps a silver wand.
He drew not nigh unheard; the Angel bright,
Ere he drew nigh, his radiant visage turned,
Admonished by his ear, and straight was known
The Arch-Angel Uriel, one of the seven
Who in God's presence, nearest to his throne,
Stand ready at command, and are his eyes
That run through all the Heavens, or down to the Earth
Bear his swift errands over moist and dry,
O'er sea and land: him Satan thus accosts.
Uriel, for thou of those seven Spirits that stand
In sight of God's high throne, gloriously bright,
The first art wont his great authentick will
Interpreter through highest Heaven to bring,
Where all his sons thy embassy attend;
And here art likeliest by supreme decree
Like honour to obtain, and as his eye
To visit oft this new creation round;
Unspeakable desire to see, and know
All these his wonderous works, but chiefly Man,
His chief delight and favour, him for whom
All these his works so wonderous he ordained,
Hath brought me from the quires of Cherubim
Alone thus wandering.  Brightest Seraph, tell
In which of all these shining orbs hath Man
His fixed seat, or fixed seat hath none,
But all these shining orbs his choice to dwell;
That I may find him, and with secret gaze
Or open admiration him behold,
On whom the great Creator hath bestowed
Worlds, and on whom hath all these graces poured;
That both in him and all things, as is meet,
The universal Maker we may praise;
Who justly hath driven out his rebel foes
To deepest Hell, and, to repair that loss,
Created this new happy race of Men
To serve him better:  Wise are all his ways.
So spake the false dissembler unperceived;
For neither Man nor Angel can discern
Hypocrisy, the only evil that walks
Invisible, except to God alone,
By his permissive will, through Heaven and Earth:
And oft, though wisdom wake, suspicion sleeps
At wisdom's gate, and to simplicity
Resigns her charge, while goodness thinks no ill
Where no ill seems:  Which now for once beguiled
Uriel, though regent of the sun, and held
The sharpest-sighted Spirit of all in Heaven;
Who to the fraudulent impostor foul,
In his uprightness, answer thus returned.
Fair Angel, thy desire, which tends to know
The works of God, thereby to glorify
The great Work-master, leads to no excess
That reaches blame, but rather merits praise
The more it seems excess, that led thee hither
From thy empyreal mansion thus alone,
To witness with thine eyes what some perhaps,
Contented with report, hear only in Heaven:
For wonderful indeed are all his works,
Pleasant to know, and worthiest to be all
Had in remembrance always with delight;
But what created mind can comprehend
Their number, or the wisdom infinite
That brought them forth, but hid their causes deep?
I saw when at his word the formless mass,
This world's material mould, came to a heap:
Confusion heard his voice, and wild uproar
Stood ruled, stood vast infinitude confined;
Till at his second bidding Darkness fled,
Light shone, and order from disorder sprung:
Swift to their several quarters hasted then
The cumbrous elements, earth, flood, air, fire;
And this ethereal quintessence of Heaven
Flew upward, spirited with various forms,
That rolled orbicular, and turned to stars
Numberless, as thou seest, and how they move;
Each had his place appointed, each his course;
The rest in circuit walls this universe.
Look downward on that globe, whose hither side
With light from hence, though but reflected, shines;
That place is Earth, the seat of Man; that light
His day, which else, as the other hemisphere,
Night would invade; but there the neighbouring moon
So call that opposite fair star) her aid
Timely interposes, and her monthly round
Still ending, still renewing, through mid Heaven,
With borrowed light her countenance triform
Hence fills and empties to enlighten the Earth,
And in her pale dominion checks the night.
That spot, to which I point, is Paradise,
Adam's abode; those lofty shades, his bower.
Thy way thou canst not miss, me mine requires.
Thus said, he turned; and Satan, bowing low,
As to superiour Spirits is wont in Heaven,
Where honour due and reverence none neglects,
Took leave, and toward the coast of earth beneath,
Down from the ecliptick, sped with hoped success,
Throws his steep flight in many an aery wheel;
Nor staid, till on Niphates' top he lights.



Book IV


O, for that warning voice, which he, who saw
The Apocalypse, heard cry in Heaven aloud,
Then when the Dragon, put to second rout,
Came furious down to be revenged on men,
Woe to the inhabitants on earth! that now,
While time was, our first parents had been warned
The coming of their secret foe, and 'scaped,
Haply so 'scaped his mortal snare:  For now
Satan, now first inflamed with rage, came down,
The tempter ere the accuser of mankind,
To wreak on innocent frail Man his loss
Of that first battle, and his flight to Hell:
Yet, not rejoicing in his speed, though bold
Far off and fearless, nor with cause to boast,
Begins his dire attempt; which nigh the birth
Now rolling boils in his tumultuous breast,
And like a devilish engine back recoils
Upon himself; horrour and doubt distract
His troubled thoughts, and from the bottom stir
The Hell within him; for within him Hell
He brings, and round about him, nor from Hell
One step, no more than from himself, can fly
By change of place:  Now conscience wakes despair,
That slumbered; wakes the bitter memory
Of what he was, what is, and what must be
Worse; of worse deeds worse sufferings must ensue.
Sometimes towards Eden, which now in his view
Lay pleasant, his grieved look he fixes sad;
Sometimes towards Heaven, and the full-blazing sun,
Which now sat high in his meridian tower:
Then, much revolving, thus in sighs began.
O thou, that, with surpassing glory crowned,
Lookest from thy sole dominion like the God
Of this new world; at whose sight all the stars
Hide their diminished heads; to thee I call,
But with no friendly voice, and add thy name,
Of Sun! to tell thee how I hate thy beams,
That bring to my remembrance from what state
I fell, how glorious once above thy sphere;
Till pride and worse ambition threw me down
Warring in Heaven against Heaven's matchless King:
Ah, wherefore! he deserved no such return
From me, whom he created what I was
In that bright eminence, and with his good
Upbraided none; nor was his service hard.
What could be less than to afford him praise,
The easiest recompence, and pay him thanks,
How due! yet all his good proved ill in me,
And wrought but malice; lifted up so high
I sdeined subjection, and thought one step higher
Would set me highest, and in a moment quit
The debt immense of endless gratitude,
So burdensome still paying, still to owe,
Forgetful what from him I still received,
And understood not that a grateful mind
By owing owes not, but still pays, at once
Indebted and discharged; what burden then
O, had his powerful destiny ordained
Me some inferiour Angel, I had stood
Then happy; no unbounded hope had raised
Ambition!  Yet why not some other Power
As great might have aspired, and me, though mean,
Drawn to his part; but other Powers as great
Fell not, but stand unshaken, from within
Or from without, to all temptations armed.
Hadst thou the same free will and power to stand?
Thou hadst: whom hast thou then or what to accuse,
But Heaven's free love dealt equally to all?
Be then his love accursed, since love or hate,
To me alike, it deals eternal woe.
Nay, cursed be thou; since against his thy will
Chose freely what it now so justly rues.
Me miserable! which way shall I fly
Infinite wrath, and infinite despair?
Which way I fly is Hell; myself am Hell;
And, in the lowest deep, a lower deep
Still threatening to devour me opens wide,
To which the Hell I suffer seems a Heaven.
O, then, at last relent:  Is there no place
Left for repentance, none for pardon left?
None left but by submission; and that word
Disdain forbids me, and my dread of shame
Among the Spirits beneath, whom I seduced
With other promises and other vaunts
Than to submit, boasting I could subdue
The Omnipotent.  Ay me! they little know
How dearly I abide that boast so vain,
Under what torments inwardly I groan,
While they adore me on the throne of Hell.
With diadem and scepter high advanced,
The lower still I fall, only supreme
In misery:  Such joy ambition finds.
But say I could repent, and could obtain,
By act of grace, my former state; how soon
Would highth recall high thoughts, how soon unsay
What feigned submission swore?  Ease would recant
Vows made in pain, as violent and void.
For never can true reconcilement grow,
Where wounds of deadly hate have pierced so deep:
Which would but lead me to a worse relapse
And heavier fall:  so should I purchase dear
Short intermission bought with double smart.
This knows my Punisher; therefore as far
From granting he, as I from begging, peace;
All hope excluded thus, behold, in stead
Mankind created, and for him this world.
So farewell, hope; and with hope farewell, fear;
Farewell, remorse! all good to me is lost;
Evil, be thou my good; by thee at least
Divided empire with Heaven's King I hold,
By thee, and more than half perhaps will reign;
As Man ere long, and this new world, shall know.
Thus while he spake, each passion dimmed his face
Thrice changed with pale, ire, envy, and despair;
Which marred his borrowed visage, and betrayed
Him counterfeit, if any eye beheld.
For heavenly minds from such distempers foul
Are ever clear.  Whereof he soon aware,
Each perturbation smoothed with outward calm,
Artificer of fraud; and was the first
That practised falsehood under saintly show,
Deep malice to conceal, couched with revenge:
Yet not enough had practised to deceive
Uriel once warned; whose eye pursued him down
 The way he went, and on the Assyrian mount
 Saw him disfigured, more than could befall
 Spirit of happy sort; his gestures fierce
 He marked and mad demeanour, then alone,
 As he supposed, all unobserved, unseen.
 So on he fares, and to the border comes
 Of Eden, where delicious Paradise,
 Now nearer, crowns with her enclosure green,
 As with a rural mound, the champaign head
 Of a steep wilderness, whose hairy sides
Access denied; and overhead upgrew
 Insuperable height of loftiest shade,
 Cedar, and pine, and fir, and branching palm,
 A sylvan scene, and, as the ranks ascend,
 Shade above shade, a woody theatre
 Of stateliest view. Yet higher than their tops
 The verdurous wall of Paradise upsprung;

    00081429
Which to our general sire gave prospect large
Into his nether empire neighbouring round.
And higher than that wall a circling row
Of goodliest trees, loaden with fairest fruit,
Blossoms and fruits at once of golden hue,
Appeared, with gay enamelled colours mixed:
On which the sun more glad impressed his beams
Than in fair evening cloud, or humid bow,
When God hath showered the earth; so lovely seemed
That landskip:  And of pure now purer air
Meets his approach, and to the heart inspires
Vernal delight and joy, able to drive
All sadness but despair:  Now gentle gales,
Fanning their odoriferous wings, dispense
Native perfumes, and whisper whence they stole
Those balmy spoils.  As when to them who fail
Beyond the Cape of Hope, and now are past
Mozambick, off at sea north-east winds blow
Sabean odours from the spicy shore
Of Araby the blest; with such delay
Well pleased they slack their course, and many a league
Cheered with the grateful smell old Ocean smiles:
So entertained those odorous sweets the Fiend,
Who came their bane; though with them better pleased
Than Asmodeus with the fishy fume
That drove him, though enamoured, from the spouse
Of Tobit's son, and with a vengeance sent
From Media post to Egypt, there fast bound.
Now to the ascent of that steep savage hill
Satan had journeyed on, pensive and slow;
But further way found none, so thick entwined,
As one continued brake, the undergrowth
Of shrubs and tangling bushes had perplexed
All path of man or beast that passed that way.
One gate there only was, and that looked east
On the other side: which when the arch-felon saw,
Due entrance he disdained; and, in contempt,
At one flight bound high over-leaped all bound
Of hill or highest wall, and sheer within
Lights on his feet.  As when a prowling wolf,
Whom hunger drives to seek new haunt for prey,
Watching where shepherds pen their flocks at eve
In hurdled cotes amid the field secure,
Leaps o'er the fence with ease into the fold:
Or as a thief, bent to unhoard the cash
Of some rich burgher, whose substantial doors,
Cross-barred and bolted fast, fear no assault,
In at the window climbs, or o'er the tiles:
So clomb this first grand thief into God's fold;
So since into his church lewd hirelings climb.
Thence up he flew, and on the tree of life,
The middle tree and highest there that grew,
Sat like a cormorant; yet not true life
Thereby regained, but sat devising death
To them who lived; nor on the virtue thought
Of that life-giving plant, but only used
For prospect, what well used had been the pledge
Of immortality.  So little knows
Any, but God alone, to value right
The good before him, but perverts best things
To worst abuse, or to their meanest use.
Beneath him with new wonder now he views,
To all delight of human sense exposed,
In narrow room, Nature's whole wealth, yea more,
A Heaven on Earth:  For blissful Paradise
Of God the garden was, by him in the east
Of Eden planted; Eden stretched her line
From Auran eastward to the royal towers
Of great Seleucia, built by Grecian kings,
Of where the sons of Eden long before
Dwelt in Telassar:  In this pleasant soil
His far more pleasant garden God ordained;
Out of the fertile ground he caused to grow
All trees of noblest kind for sight, smell, taste;
And all amid them stood the tree of life,
High eminent, blooming ambrosial fruit
Of vegetable gold; and next to life,
Our death, the tree of knowledge, grew fast by,
Knowledge of good bought dear by knowing ill.
Southward through Eden went a river large,
Nor changed his course, but through the shaggy hill
Passed underneath ingulfed; for God had thrown
That mountain as his garden-mould high raised
Upon the rapid current, which, through veins
Of porous earth with kindly thirst up-drawn,
Rose a fresh fountain, and with many a rill
Watered the garden; thence united fell
Down the steep glade, and met the nether flood,
Which from his darksome passage now appears,
And now, divided into four main streams,
Runs diverse, wandering many a famous realm
And country, whereof here needs no account;
But rather to tell how, if Art could tell,
How from that sapphire fount the crisped brooks,
Rolling on orient pearl and sands of gold,
With mazy errour under pendant shades
Ran nectar, visiting each plant, and fed
Flowers worthy of Paradise, which not nice Art
In beds and curious knots, but Nature boon
Poured forth profuse on hill, and dale, and plain,
Both where the morning sun first warmly smote
The open field, and where the unpierced shade
Imbrowned the noontide bowers:  Thus was this place
A happy rural seat of various view;
Groves whose rich trees wept odorous gums and balm,
Others whose fruit, burnished with golden rind,
Hung amiable, Hesperian fables true,
If true, here only, and of delicious taste:
Betwixt them lawns, or level downs, and flocks
Grazing the tender herb, were interposed,
Or palmy hillock; or the flowery lap
Of some irriguous valley spread her store,
Flowers of all hue, and without thorn the rose:
Another side, umbrageous grots and caves
Of cool recess, o'er which the mantling vine
Lays forth her purple grape, and gently creeps
Luxuriant; mean while murmuring waters fall
Down the slope hills, dispersed, or in a lake,
That to the fringed bank with myrtle crowned
Her crystal mirrour holds, unite their streams.
The birds their quire apply; airs, vernal airs,
Breathing the smell of field and grove, attune
The trembling leaves, while universal Pan,
Knit with the Graces and the Hours in dance,
Led on the eternal Spring.  Not that fair field
Of Enna, where Proserpine gathering flowers,
Herself a fairer flower by gloomy Dis
Was gathered, which cost Ceres all that pain
To seek her through the world; nor that sweet grove
Of Daphne by Orontes, and the inspired
Castalian spring, might with this Paradise
Of Eden strive; nor that Nyseian isle
Girt with the river Triton, where old Cham,
Whom Gentiles Ammon call and Libyan Jove,
Hid Amalthea, and her florid son
Young Bacchus, from his stepdame Rhea's eye;
Nor where Abassin kings their issue guard,
Mount Amara, though this by some supposed
True Paradise under the Ethiop line
By Nilus' head, enclosed with shining rock,
A whole day's journey high, but wide remote
From this Assyrian garden, where the Fiend
Saw, undelighted, all delight, all kind
Of living creatures, new to sight, and strange
Two of far nobler shape, erect and tall,
Godlike erect, with native honour clad
In naked majesty seemed lords of all:
And worthy seemed; for in their looks divine
The image of their glorious Maker shone,
Truth, wisdom, sanctitude severe and pure,
(Severe, but in true filial freedom placed,)
Whence true authority in men; though both
Not equal, as their sex not equal seemed;
For contemplation he and valour formed;
For softness she and sweet attractive grace;
He for God only, she for God in him:
His fair large front and eye sublime declared
Absolute rule; and hyacinthine locks
Round from his parted forelock manly hung
Clustering, but not beneath his shoulders broad:
She, as a veil, down to the slender waist
Her unadorned golden tresses wore
Dishevelled, but in wanton ringlets waved
As the vine curls her tendrils, which implied
Subjection, but required with gentle sway,
And by her yielded, by him best received,
Yielded with coy submission, modest pride,
And sweet, reluctant, amorous delay.
Nor those mysterious parts were then concealed;
Then was not guilty shame, dishonest shame
Of nature's works, honour dishonourable,
Sin-bred, how have ye troubled all mankind
With shows instead, mere shows of seeming pure,
And banished from man's life his happiest life,
Simplicity and spotless innocence!
So passed they naked on, nor shunned the sight
Of God or Angel; for they thought no ill:
So hand in hand they passed, the loveliest pair,
That ever since in love's embraces met;
Adam the goodliest man of men since born
His sons, the fairest of her daughters Eve.
Under a tuft of shade that on a green
Stood whispering soft, by a fresh fountain side
They sat them down; and, after no more toil
Of their sweet gardening labour than sufficed
To recommend cool Zephyr, and made ease
More easy, wholesome thirst and appetite
More grateful, to their supper-fruits they fell,
Nectarine fruits which the compliant boughs
Yielded them, side-long as they sat recline
On the soft downy bank damasked with flowers:
The savoury pulp they chew, and in the rind,
Still as they thirsted, scoop the brimming stream;
Nor gentle purpose, nor endearing smiles
Wanted, nor youthful dalliance, as beseems
Fair couple, linked in happy nuptial league,
Alone as they.  About them frisking played
All beasts of the earth, since wild, and of all chase
In wood or wilderness, forest or den;
Sporting the lion ramped, and in his paw
Dandled the kid; bears, tigers, ounces, pards,
Gambolled before them; the unwieldy elephant,
To make them mirth, used all his might, and wreathed
His?kithetmroboscis; close the serpent sly,
Insinuating, wove with Gordian twine
His braided train, and of his fatal guile
Gave proof unheeded; others on the grass
Couched, and now filled with pasture gazing sat,
Or bedward ruminating; for the sun,
Declined, was hasting now with prone career
To the ocean isles, and in the ascending scale
Of Heaven the stars that usher evening rose:
When Satan still in gaze, as first he stood,
Scarce thus at length failed speech recovered sad.
O Hell! what do mine eyes with grief behold!
Into our room of bliss thus high advanced
Creatures of other mould, earth-born perhaps,
Not Spirits, yet to heavenly Spirits bright
Little inferiour; whom my thoughts pursue
With wonder, and could love, so lively shines
In them divine resemblance, and such grace
The hand that formed them on their shape hath poured.
Ah! gentle pair, ye little think how nigh
Your change approaches, when all these delights
Will vanish, and deliver ye to woe;
More woe, the more your taste is now of joy;
Happy, but for so happy ill secured
Long to continue, and this high seat your Heaven
Ill fenced for Heaven to keep out such a foe
As now is entered; yet no purposed foe
To you, whom I could pity thus forlorn,
Though I unpitied:  League with you I seek,
And mutual amity, so strait, so close,
That I with you must dwell, or you with me
Henceforth; my dwelling haply may not please,
Like this fair Paradise, your sense; yet such
Accept your Maker's work; he gave it me,
Which I as freely give:  Hell shall unfold,
To entertain you two, her widest gates,
And send forth all her kings; there will be room,
Not like these narrow limits, to receive
Your numerous offspring; if no better place,
Thank him who puts me loth to this revenge
On you who wrong me not for him who wronged.
And should I at your harmless innocence
Melt, as I do, yet publick reason just,
Honour and empire with revenge enlarged,
By conquering this new world, compels me now
To do what else, though damned, I should abhor.
So spake the Fiend, and with necessity,
The tyrant's plea, excused his devilish deeds.
Then from his lofty stand on that high tree
Down he alights among the sportful herd
Of those four-footed kinds, himself now one,
Now other, as their shape served best his end
Nearer to view his prey, and, unespied,
To mark what of their state he more might learn,
By word or action marked. About them round
A lion now he stalks with fiery glare;
Then as a tiger, who by chance hath spied
In some purlieu two gentle fawns at play,
Straight couches close, then, rising, changes oft
His couchant watch, as one who chose his ground,
Whence rushing, he might surest seize them both,
Griped in each paw: when, Adam first of men
To first of women Eve thus moving speech,
Turned him, all ear to hear new utterance flow.
Sole partner, and sole part, of all these joys,
Dearer thyself than all; needs must the Power
That made us, and for us this ample world,
Be infinitely good, and of his good
As liberal and free as infinite;
That raised us from the dust, and placed us here
In all this happiness, who at his hand
Have nothing merited, nor can perform
Aught whereof he hath need; he who requires
From us no other service than to keep
This one, this easy charge, of all the trees
In Paradise that bear delicious fruit
So various, not to taste that only tree
Of knowledge, planted by the tree of life;
So near grows death to life, whate'er death is,
Some dreadful thing no doubt; for well thou knowest
God hath pronounced it death to taste that tree,
The only sign of our obedience left,
Among so many signs of power and rule
Conferred upon us, and dominion given
Over all other creatures that possess
Earth, air, and sea.  Then let us not think hard
One easy prohibition, who enjoy
Free leave so large to all things else, and choice
Unlimited of manifold delights:
But let us ever praise him, and extol
His bounty, following our delightful task,
To prune these growing plants, and tend these flowers,
Which were it toilsome, yet with thee were sweet.
To whom thus Eve replied.  O thou for whom
And from whom I was formed, flesh of thy flesh,
And without whom am to no end, my guide
And head! what thou hast said is just and right.
For we to him indeed all praises owe,
And daily thanks; I chiefly, who enjoy
So far the happier lot, enjoying thee
Pre-eminent by so much odds, while thou
Like consort to thyself canst no where find.
That day I oft remember, when from sleep
I first awaked, and found myself reposed
Under a shade on flowers, much wondering where
And what I was, whence thither brought, and how.
Not distant far from thence a murmuring sound
Of waters issued from a cave, and spread
Into a liquid plain, then stood unmoved
Pure as the expanse of Heaven; I thither went
With unexperienced thought, and laid me down
On the green bank, to look into the clear
Smooth lake, that to me seemed another sky.
As I bent down to look, just opposite
A shape within the watery gleam appeared,
Bending to look on me:  I started back,
It started back; but pleased I soon returned,
Pleased it returned as soon with answering looks
Of sympathy and love:  There I had fixed
Mine eyes till now, and pined with vain desire,
Had not a voice thus warned me;  'What thou seest,
'What there thou seest, fair Creature, is thyself;
'With thee it came and goes: but follow me,
'And I will bring thee where no shadow stays
'Thy coming, and thy soft embraces, he
'Whose image thou art; him thou shalt enjoy
'Inseparably thine, to him shalt bear
'Multitudes like thyself, and thence be called
'Mother of human race.'  What could I do,
But follow straight, invisibly thus led?
Till I espied thee, fair indeed and tall,
Under a platane; yet methought less fair,
Less winning soft, less amiably mild,
Than that smooth watery image:  Back I turned;
Thou following cryedst aloud, 'Return, fair Eve;
'Whom flyest thou?  whom thou flyest, of him thou art,
'His flesh, his bone; to give thee being I lent
'Out of my side to thee, nearest my heart,
'Substantial life, to have thee by my side
'Henceforth an individual solace dear;
'Part of my soul I seek thee, and thee claim
'My other half:'  With that thy gentle hand
Seised mine:  I yielded;and from that time see
How beauty is excelled by manly grace,
And wisdom, which alone is truly fair.
So spake our general mother, and with eyes
Of conjugal attraction unreproved,
And meek surrender, half-embracing leaned
On our first father; half her swelling breast
Naked met his, under the flowing gold
Of her loose tresses hid: he in delight
Both of her beauty, and submissive charms,
Smiled with superiour love, as Jupiter
On Juno smiles, when he impregns the clouds
That shed Mayflowers; and pressed her matron lip
With kisses pure:  Aside the Devil turned
For envy; yet with jealous leer malign
Eyed them askance, and to himself thus plained.
Sight hateful, sight tormenting! thus these two,
Imparadised in one another's arms,
The happier Eden, shall enjoy their fill
Of bliss on bliss; while I to Hell am thrust,
Where neither joy nor love, but fierce desire,
Among our other torments not the least,
Still unfulfilled with pain of longing pines.
Yet let me not forget what I have gained
From their own mouths:  All is not theirs, it seems;
One fatal tree there stands, of knowledge called,
Forbidden them to taste:  Knowledge forbidden
Suspicious, reasonless.  Why should their Lord
Envy them that?  Can it be sin to know?
Can it be death?  And do they only stand
By ignorance?  Is that their happy state,
The proof of their obedience and their faith?
O fair foundation laid whereon to build
Their ruin! hence I will excite their minds
With more desire to know, and to reject
Envious commands, invented with design
To keep them low, whom knowledge might exalt
Equal with Gods: aspiring to be such,
They taste and die:  What likelier can ensue
But first with narrow search I must walk round
This garden, and no corner leave unspied;
A chance but chance may lead where I may meet
Some wandering Spirit of Heaven by fountain side,
Or in thick shade retired, from him to draw
What further would be learned.  Live while ye may,
Yet happy pair; enjoy, till I return,
Short pleasures, for long woes are to succeed!
So saying, his proud step he scornful turned,
But with sly circumspection, and began
Through wood, through waste, o'er hill, o'er dale, his roam
Mean while in utmost longitude, where Heaven
With earth and ocean meets, the setting sun
Slowly descended, and with right aspect
Against the eastern gate of Paradise
Levelled his evening rays:  It was a rock
Of alabaster, piled up to the clouds,
Conspicuous far, winding with one ascent
Accessible from earth, one entrance high;
The rest was craggy cliff, that overhung
Still as it rose, impossible to climb.
Betwixt these rocky pillars Gabriel sat,
Chief of the angelick guards, awaiting night;
About him exercised heroick games
The unarmed youth of Heaven, but nigh at hand
Celestial armoury, shields, helms, and spears,
Hung high with diamond flaming, and with gold.
Thither came Uriel, gliding through the even
On a sun-beam, swift as a shooting star
In autumn thwarts the night, when vapours fired
Impress the air, and shows the mariner
From what point of his compass to beware
Impetuous winds:  He thus began in haste.
Gabriel, to thee thy course by lot hath given
Charge and strict watch, that to this happy place
No evil thing approach or enter in.
This day at highth of noon came to my sphere
A Spirit, zealous, as he seemed, to know
More of the Almighty's works, and chiefly Man,
God's latest image:  I described his way
Bent all on speed, and marked his aery gait;
But in the mount that lies from Eden north,
Where he first lighted, soon discerned his looks
Alien from Heaven, with passions foul obscured:
Mine eye pursued him still, but under shade
Lost sight of him:  One of the banished crew,
I fear, hath ventured from the deep, to raise
New troubles; him thy care must be to find.
To whom the winged warriour thus returned.
Uriel, no wonder if thy perfect sight,
Amid the sun's bright circle where thou sitst,
See far and wide:  In at this gate none pass
The vigilance here placed, but such as come
Well known from Heaven; and since meridian hour
No creature thence:  If Spirit of other sort,
So minded, have o'er-leaped these earthly bounds
On purpose, hard thou knowest it to exclude
Spiritual substance with corporeal bar.
But if within the circuit of these walks,
In whatsoever shape he lurk, of whom
Thou tellest, by morrow dawning I shall know.
So promised he; and Uriel to his charge
Returned on that bright beam, whose point now raised
Bore him slope downward to the sun now fallen
Beneath the Azores; whether the prime orb,
Incredible how swift, had thither rolled
Diurnal, or this less volubil earth,
By shorter flight to the east, had left him there
Arraying with reflected purple and gold
The clouds that on his western throne attend.
Now came still Evening on, and Twilight gray
Had in her sober livery all things clad;
Silence accompanied; for beast and bird,
They to their grassy couch, these to their nests
Were slunk, all but the wakeful nightingale;
She all night long her amorous descant sung;
Silence was pleased:  Now glowed the firmament
With living sapphires:  Hesperus, that led
The starry host, rode brightest, till the moon,
Rising in clouded majesty, at length
Apparent queen unveiled her peerless light,
And o'er the dark her silver mantle threw.
When Adam thus to Eve.  Fair Consort, the hour
Of night, and all things now retired to rest,
Mind us of like repose; since God hath set
Labour and rest, as day and night, to men
Successive; and the timely dew of sleep,
Now falling with soft slumbrous weight, inclines
Our eye-lids:  Other creatures all day long
Rove idle, unemployed, and less need rest;
Man hath his daily work of body or mind
Appointed, which declares his dignity,
And the regard of Heaven on all his ways;
While other animals unactive range,
And of their doings God takes no account.
To-morrow, ere fresh morning streak the east
With first approach of light, we must be risen,
And at our pleasant labour, to reform
Yon flowery arbours, yonder alleys green,
Our walk at noon, with branches overgrown,
That mock our scant manuring, and require
More hands than ours to lop their wanton growth:
Those blossoms also, and those dropping gums,
That lie bestrown, unsightly and unsmooth,
Ask riddance, if we mean to tread with ease;
Mean while, as Nature wills, night bids us rest.
To whom thus Eve, with perfect beauty adorned
My Author and Disposer, what thou bidst
Unargued I obey:  So God ordains;
God is thy law, thou mine:  To know no more
Is woman's happiest knowledge, and her praise.
With thee conversing I forget all time;
All seasons, and their change, all please alike.
Sweet is the breath of Morn, her rising sweet,
With charm of earliest birds:  pleasant the sun,
When first on this delightful land he spreads
His orient beams, on herb, tree, fruit, and flower,
Glistering with dew; fragrant the fertile earth
After soft showers; and sweet the coming on
Of grateful Evening mild; then silent Night,
With this her solemn bird, and this fair moon,
And these the gems of Heaven, her starry train:
But neither breath of Morn, when she ascends
With charm of earliest birds; nor rising sun
On this delightful land; nor herb, fruit, flower,
Glistering with dew; nor fragrance after showers;
Nor grateful Evening mild; nor silent Night,
With this her solemn bird, nor walk by moon,
Or glittering star-light, without thee is sweet.
But wherefore all night long shine these? for whom
This glorious sight, when sleep hath shut all eyes?
To whom our general ancestor replied.
Daughter of God and Man, accomplished Eve,
These have their course to finish round the earth,
By morrow evening, and from land to land
In order, though to nations yet unborn,
Ministring light prepared, they set and rise;
Lest total Darkness should by night regain
Her old possession, and extinguish life
In Nature and all things; which these soft fires
Not only enlighten, but with kindly heat
Of various influence foment and warm,
Temper or nourish, or in part shed down
Their stellar virtue on all kinds that grow
On earth, made hereby apter to receive
Perfection from the sun's more potent ray.
These then, though unbeheld in deep of night,
Shine not in vain; nor think, though men were none,
That Heaven would want spectators, God want praise:
Millions of spiritual creatures walk the earth
Unseen, both when we wake, and when we sleep:
All these with ceaseless praise his works behold
Both day and night:  How often from the steep
Of echoing hill or thicket have we heard
Celestial voices to the midnight air,
Sole, or responsive each to others note,
Singing their great Creator? oft in bands
While they keep watch, or nightly rounding walk,
With heavenly touch of instrumental sounds
In full harmonick number joined, their songs
Divide the night, and lift our thoughts to Heaven.
Thus talking, hand in hand alone they passed
On to their blissful bower: it was a place
Chosen by the sovran Planter, when he framed
All things to Man's delightful use; the roof
Of thickest covert was inwoven shade
Laurel and myrtle, and what higher grew
Of firm and fragrant leaf; on either side
Acanthus, and each odorous bushy shrub,
Fenced up the verdant wall; each beauteous flower,
Iris all hues, roses, and jessamin,
Reared high their flourished heads between, and wrought
Mosaick; underfoot the violet,
Crocus, and hyacinth, with rich inlay
Broidered the ground, more coloured than with stone
Of costliest emblem:  Other creature here,
Bird, beast, insect, or worm, durst enter none,
Such was their awe of Man.  In shadier bower
More sacred and sequestered, though but feigned,
Pan or Sylvanus never slept, nor Nymph
Nor Faunus haunted.  Here, in close recess,
With flowers, garlands, and sweet-smelling herbs,
Espoused Eve decked first her nuptial bed;
And heavenly quires the hymenaean sung,
What day the genial Angel to our sire
Brought her in naked beauty more adorned,
More lovely, than Pandora, whom the Gods
Endowed with all their gifts, and O! too like
In sad event, when to the unwiser son
Of Japhet brought by Hermes, she ensnared
Mankind with her fair looks, to be avenged
On him who had stole Jove's authentick fire.
Thus, at their shady lodge arrived, both stood,
Both turned, and under open sky adored
The God that made both sky, air, earth, and heaven,
Which they beheld, the moon's resplendent globe,
And starry pole:  Thou also madest the night,
Maker Omnipotent, and thou the day,
Which we, in our appointed work employed,
Have finished, happy in our mutual help
And mutual love, the crown of all our bliss
Ordained by thee; and this delicious place
For us too large, where thy abundance wants
Partakers, and uncropt falls to the ground.
But thou hast promised from us two a race
To fill the earth, who shall with us extol
Thy goodness infinite, both when we wake,
And when we seek, as now, thy gift of sleep.
This said unanimous, and other rites
Observing none, but adoration pure
Which God likes best, into their inmost bower
Handed they went; and, eased the putting off
These troublesome disguises which we wear,
Straight side by side were laid; nor turned, I ween,
Adam from his fair spouse, nor Eve the rites
Mysterious of connubial love refused:
Whatever hypocrites austerely talk
Of purity, and place, and innocence,
Defaming as impure what God declares
Pure, and commands to some, leaves free to all.
Our Maker bids encrease; who bids abstain
But our Destroyer, foe to God and Man?
Hail, wedded Love, mysterious law, true source
Of human offspring, sole propriety
In Paradise of all things common else!
By thee adulterous Lust was driven from men
Among the bestial herds to range; by thee
Founded in reason, loyal, just, and pure,
Relations dear, and all the charities
Of father, son, and brother, first were known.
Far be it, that I should write thee sin or blame,
Or think thee unbefitting holiest place,
Perpetual fountain of domestick sweets,
Whose bed is undefiled and chaste pronounced,
Present, or past, as saints and patriarchs used.
Here Love his golden shafts employs, here lights
His constant lamp, and waves his purple wings,
Reigns here and revels; not in the bought smile
Of harlots, loveless, joyless, unendeared,
Casual fruition; nor in court-amours,
Mixed dance, or wanton mask, or midnight ball,
Or serenate, which the starved lover sings
To his proud fair, best quitted with disdain.
These, lulled by nightingales, embracing slept,
And on their naked limbs the flowery roof
Showered roses, which the morn repaired.  Sleep on,
Blest pair; and O!yet happiest, if ye seek
No happier state, and know to know no more.
Now had night measured with her shadowy cone
Half way up hill this vast sublunar vault,
And from their ivory port the Cherubim,
Forth issuing at the accustomed hour, stood armed
To their night watches in warlike parade;
When Gabriel to his next in power thus spake.
Uzziel, half these draw off, and coast the south
With strictest watch; these other wheel the north;
Our circuit meets full west.  As flame they part,
Half wheeling to the shield, half to the spear.
From these, two strong and subtle Spirits he called
That near him stood, and gave them thus in charge.
Ithuriel and Zephon, with winged speed
Search through this garden, leave unsearched no nook;
But chiefly where those two fair creatures lodge,
Now laid perhaps asleep, secure of harm.
This evening from the sun's decline arrived,
Who tells of some infernal Spirit seen
Hitherward bent (who could have thought?) escaped
The bars of Hell, on errand bad no doubt:
Such, where ye find, seise fast, and hither bring.
So saying, on he led his radiant files,
Dazzling the moon; these to the bower direct
In search of whom they sought:  Him there they found
Squat like a toad, close at the ear of Eve,
Assaying by his devilish art to reach
The organs of her fancy, and with them forge
Illusions, as he list, phantasms and dreams;
Or if, inspiring venom, he might taint
The animal spirits, that from pure blood arise
Like gentle breaths from rivers pure, thence raise
At least distempered, discontented thoughts,
Vain hopes, vain aims, inordinate desires,
Blown up with high conceits ingendering pride.
Him thus intent Ithuriel with his spear
Touched lightly; for no falshood can endure
Touch of celestial temper, but returns
Of force to its own likeness:  Up he starts
Discovered and surprised.  As when a spark
Lights on a heap of nitrous powder, laid
Fit for the tun some magazine to store
Against a rumoured war, the smutty grain,
With sudden blaze diffused, inflames the air;
So started up in his own shape the Fiend.
Back stept those two fair Angels, half amazed
So sudden to behold the grisly king;
Yet thus, unmoved with fear, accost him soon.
Which of those rebel Spirits adjudged to Hell
Comest thou, escaped thy prison? and, transformed,
Why sat'st thou like an enemy in wait,
Here watching at the head of these that sleep?
Know ye not then said Satan, filled with scorn,
Know ye not me? ye knew me once no mate
For you, there sitting where ye durst not soar:
Not to know me argues yourselves unknown,
The lowest of your throng; or, if ye know,
Why ask ye, and superfluous begin
Your message, like to end as much in vain?
To whom thus Zephon, answering scorn with scorn.
Think not, revolted Spirit, thy shape the same,
Or undiminished brightness to be known,
As when thou stoodest in Heaven upright and pure;
That glory then, when thou no more wast good,
Departed from thee; and thou resemblest now
Thy sin and place of doom obscure and foul.
But come, for thou, be sure, shalt give account
To him who sent us, whose charge is to keep
This place inviolable, and these from harm.
So spake the Cherub; and his grave rebuke,
Severe in youthful beauty, added grace
Invincible:  Abashed the Devil stood,
And felt how awful goodness is, and saw
Virtue in her shape how lovely; saw, and pined
His loss; but chiefly to find here observed
His lustre visibly impaired; yet seemed
Undaunted.  If I must contend, said he,
Best with the best, the sender, not the sent,
Or all at once; more glory will be won,
Or less be lost.  Thy fear, said Zephon bold,
Will save us trial what the least can do
Single against thee wicked, and thence weak.
The Fiend replied not, overcome with rage;
But, like a proud steed reined, went haughty on,
Champing his iron curb:  To strive or fly
He held it vain; awe from above had quelled
His heart, not else dismayed.  Now drew they nigh
The western point, where those half-rounding guards
Just met, and closing stood in squadron joined,
A waiting next command.  To whom their Chief,
Gabriel, from the front thus called aloud.
O friends!  I hear the tread of nimble feet
Hasting this way, and now by glimpse discern
Ithuriel and Zephon through the shade;
And with them comes a third of regal port,
But faded splendour wan; who by his gait
And fierce demeanour seems the Prince of Hell,
Not likely to part hence without contest;
Stand firm, for in his look defiance lours.
He scarce had ended, when those two approached,
And brief related whom they brought, where found,
How busied, in what form and posture couched.
To whom with stern regard thus Gabriel spake.
Why hast thou, Satan, broke the bounds prescribed
To thy transgressions, and disturbed the charge
Of others, who approve not to transgress
By thy example, but have power and right
To question thy bold entrance on this place;
Employed, it seems, to violate sleep, and those
Whose dwelling God hath planted here in bliss!
To whom thus Satan with contemptuous brow.
Gabriel? thou hadst in Heaven the esteem of wise,
And such I held thee; but this question asked
Puts me in doubt.  Lives there who loves his pain!
Who would not, finding way, break loose from Hell,
Though thither doomed!  Thou wouldst thyself, no doubt
And boldly venture to whatever place
Farthest from pain, where thou mightst hope to change
Torment with ease, and soonest recompense
Dole with delight, which in this place I sought;
To thee no reason, who knowest only good,
But evil hast not tried: and wilt object
His will who bounds us!  Let him surer bar
His iron gates, if he intends our stay
In that dark durance:  Thus much what was asked.
The rest is true, they found me where they say;
But that implies not violence or harm.
Thus he in scorn.  The warlike Angel moved,
Disdainfully half smiling, thus replied.
O loss of one in Heaven to judge of wise
Since Satan fell, whom folly overthrew,
And now returns him from his prison 'scaped,
Gravely in doubt whether to hold them wise
Or not, who ask what boldness brought him hither
Unlicensed from his bounds in Hell prescribed;
So wise he judges it to fly from pain
However, and to 'scape his punishment!
So judge thou still, presumptuous! till the wrath,
Which thou incurrest by flying, meet thy flight
Sevenfold, and scourge that wisdom back to Hell,
Which taught thee yet no better, that no pain
Can equal anger infinite provoked.
But wherefore thou alone? wherefore with thee
Came not all hell broke loose? or thou than they
Less hardy to endure?  Courageous Chief!
The first in flight from pain! hadst thou alleged
To thy deserted host this cause of flight,
Thou surely hadst not come sole fugitive.
To which the Fiend thus answered, frowning stern.
Not that I less endure, or shrink from pain,
Insulting Angel! well thou knowest I stood
Thy fiercest, when in battle to thy aid
The blasting vollied thunder made all speed,
And seconded thy else not dreaded spear.
But still thy words at random, as before,
Argue thy inexperience what behoves
From hard assays and ill successes past
A faithful leader, not to hazard all
Through ways of danger by himself untried:
I, therefore, I alone first undertook
To wing the desolate abyss, and spy
This new created world, whereof in Hell
Fame is not silent, here in hope to find
Better abode, and my afflicted Powers
To settle here on earth, or in mid air;
Though for possession put to try once more
What thou and thy gay legions dare against;
Whose easier business were to serve their Lord
High up in Heaven, with songs to hymn his throne,
And practised distances to cringe, not fight,
To whom the warriour Angel soon replied.
To say and straight unsay, pretending first
Wise to fly pain, professing next the spy,
Argues no leader but a liear traced,
Satan, and couldst thou faithful add?  O name,
O sacred name of faithfulness profaned!
Faithful to whom? to thy rebellious crew?
Army of Fiends, fit body to fit head.
Was this your discipline and faith engaged,
Your military obedience, to dissolve
Allegiance to the acknowledged Power supreme?
And thou, sly hypocrite, who now wouldst seem
Patron of liberty, who more than thou
Once fawned, and cringed, and servily adored
Heaven's awful Monarch? wherefore, but in hope
To dispossess him, and thyself to reign?
But mark what I arreed thee now, Avant;
Fly neither whence thou fledst!  If from this hour
Within these hallowed limits thou appear,
Back to the infernal pit I drag thee chained,
And seal thee so, as henceforth not to scorn
The facile gates of Hell too slightly barred.
So threatened he; but Satan to no threats
Gave heed, but waxing more in rage replied.
Then when I am thy captive talk of chains,
Proud limitary Cherub! but ere then
Far heavier load thyself expect to feel
From my prevailing arm, though Heaven's King
Ride on thy wings, and thou with thy compeers,
Us'd to the yoke, drawest his triumphant wheels
In progress through the road of Heaven star-paved.
While thus he spake, the angelick squadron bright
Turned fiery red, sharpening in mooned horns
Their phalanx, and began to hem him round
With ported spears, as thick as when a field
Of Ceres ripe for harvest waving bends
Her bearded grove of ears, which way the wind
Sways them; the careful plowman doubting stands,
Left on the threshing floor his hopeless sheaves
Prove chaff.  On the other side, Satan, alarmed,
Collecting all his might, dilated stood,
Like Teneriff or Atlas, unremoved:
His stature reached the sky, and on his crest
Sat Horrour plumed; nor wanted in his grasp
What seemed both spear and shield:  Now dreadful deeds
Might have ensued, nor only Paradise
In this commotion, but the starry cope
Of Heaven perhaps, or all the elements
At least had gone to wrack, disturbed and torn
With violence of this conflict, had not soon
The Eternal, to prevent such horrid fray,
Hung forth in Heaven his golden scales, yet seen
Betwixt Astrea and the Scorpion sign,
Wherein all things created first he weighed,
The pendulous round earth with balanced air
In counterpoise, now ponders all events,
Battles and realms:  In these he put two weights,
The sequel each of parting and of fight:
The latter quick up flew, and kicked the beam,
Which Gabriel spying, thus bespake the Fiend.
Satan, I know thy strength, and thou knowest mine;
Neither our own, but given:  What folly then
To boast what arms can do? since thine no more
Than Heaven permits, nor mine, though doubled now
To trample thee as mire:  For proof look up,
And read thy lot in yon celestial sign;
Where thou art weighed, and shown how light, how weak,
If thou resist.  The Fiend looked up, and knew
His mounted scale aloft:  Nor more;but fled
Murmuring, and with him fled the shades of night.



Book V


Now Morn, her rosy steps in the eastern clime
Advancing, sowed the earth with orient pearl,
When Adam waked, so customed; for his sleep
Was aery-light, from pure digestion bred,
And temperate vapours bland, which the only sound
Of leaves and fuming rills, Aurora's fan,
Lightly dispersed, and the shrill matin song
Of birds on every bough; so much the more
His wonder was to find unwakened Eve
With tresses discomposed, and glowing cheek,
As through unquiet rest:  He, on his side
Leaning half raised, with looks of cordial love
Hung over her enamoured, and beheld
Beauty, which, whether waking or asleep,
Shot forth peculiar graces; then with voice
Mild, as when Zephyrus on Flora breathes,
Her hand soft touching, whispered thus.  Awake,
My fairest, my espoused, my latest found,
Heaven's last best gift, my ever new delight!
Awake:  The morning shines, and the fresh field
Calls us; we lose the prime, to mark how spring
Our tender plants, how blows the citron grove,
What drops the myrrh, and what the balmy reed,
How nature paints her colours, how the bee
Sits on the bloom extracting liquid sweet.
Such whispering waked her, but with startled eye
On Adam, whom embracing, thus she spake.
O sole in whom my thoughts find all repose,
My glory, my perfection! glad I see
Thy face, and morn returned; for I this night
(Such night till this I never passed) have dreamed,
If dreamed, not, as I oft am wont, of thee,
Works of day past, or morrow's next design,
But of offence and trouble, which my mind
Knew never till this irksome night:  Methought,
Close at mine ear one called me forth to walk
With gentle voice;  I thought it thine: It said,
'Why sleepest thou, Eve? now is the pleasant time,
'The cool, the silent, save where silence yields
'To the night-warbling bird, that now awake
'Tunes sweetest his love-laboured song; now reigns
'Full-orbed the moon, and with more pleasing light
'Shadowy sets off the face of things; in vain,
'If none regard; Heaven wakes with all his eyes,
'Whom to behold but thee, Nature's desire?
'In whose sight all things joy, with ravishment
'Attracted by thy beauty still to gaze.'
I rose as at thy call, but found thee not;
To find thee I directed then my walk;
And on, methought, alone I passed through ways
That brought me on a sudden to the tree
Of interdicted knowledge: fair it seemed,
Much fairer to my fancy than by day:
And, as I wondering looked, beside it stood
One shaped and winged like one of those from Heaven
By us oft seen; his dewy locks distilled
Ambrosia; on that tree he also gazed;
And 'O fair plant,' said he, 'with fruit surcharged,
'Deigns none to ease thy load, and taste thy sweet,
'Nor God, nor Man?  Is knowledge so despised?
'Or envy, or what reserve forbids to taste?
'Forbid who will, none shall from me withhold
'Longer thy offered good; why else set here?
This said, he paused not, but with venturous arm
He plucked, he tasted; me damp horrour chilled
At such bold words vouched with a deed so bold:
But he thus, overjoyed; 'O fruit divine,
'Sweet of thyself, but much more sweet thus cropt,
'Forbidden here, it seems, as only fit
'For Gods, yet able to make Gods of Men:
'And why not Gods of Men; since good, the more
'Communicated, more abundant grows,
'The author not impaired, but honoured more?
'Here, happy creature, fair angelick Eve!
'Partake thou also; happy though thou art,
'Happier thou mayest be, worthier canst not be:
'Taste this, and be henceforth among the Gods
'Thyself a Goddess, not to earth confined,
'But sometimes in the air, as we, sometimes
'Ascend to Heaven, by merit thine, and see
'What life the Gods live there, and such live thou!'
So saying, he drew nigh, and to me held,
Even to my mouth of that same fruit held part
Which he had plucked; the pleasant savoury smell
So quickened appetite, that I, methought,
Could not but taste.  Forthwith up to the clouds
With him I flew, and underneath beheld
The earth outstretched immense, a prospect wide
And various:  Wondering at my flight and change
To this high exaltation; suddenly
My guide was gone, and I, methought, sunk down,
And fell asleep; but O, how glad I waked
To find this but a dream!  Thus Eve her night
Related, and thus Adam answered sad.
Best image of myself, and dearer half,
The trouble of thy thoughts this night in sleep
Affects me equally; nor can I like
This uncouth dream, of evil sprung, I fear;
Yet evil whence? in thee can harbour none,
Created pure.  But know that in the soul
Are many lesser faculties, that serve
Reason as chief; among these Fancy next
Her office holds; of all external things
Which the five watchful senses represent,
She forms imaginations, aery shapes,
Which Reason, joining or disjoining, frames
All what we affirm or what deny, and call
Our knowledge or opinion; then retires
Into her private cell, when nature rests.
Oft in her absence mimick Fancy wakes
To imitate her; but, misjoining shapes,
Wild work produces oft, and most in dreams;
Ill matching words and deeds long past or late.
Some such resemblances, methinks, I find
Of our last evening's talk, in this thy dream,
But with addition strange; yet be not sad.
Evil into the mind of God or Man
May come and go, so unreproved, and leave
No spot or blame behind:  Which gives me hope
That what in sleep thou didst abhor to dream,
Waking thou never will consent to do.
Be not disheartened then, nor cloud those looks,
That wont to be more cheerful and serene,
Than when fair morning first smiles on the world;
And let us to our fresh employments rise
Among the groves, the fountains, and the flowers
That open now their choisest bosomed smells,
Reserved from night, and kept for thee in store.
So cheered he his fair spouse, and she was cheered;
But silently a gentle tear let fall
From either eye, and wiped them with her hair;
Two other precious drops that ready stood,
Each in their crystal sluice, he ere they fell
Kissed, as the gracious signs of sweet remorse
And pious awe, that feared to have offended.
So all was cleared, and to the field they haste.
But first, from under shady arborous roof
Soon as they forth were come to open sight
Of day-spring, and the sun, who, scarce up-risen,
With wheels yet hovering o'er the ocean-brim,
Shot parallel to the earth his dewy ray,
Discovering in wide landskip all the east
Of Paradise and Eden's happy plains,
Lowly they bowed adoring, and began
Their orisons, each morning duly paid
In various style; for neither various style
Nor holy rapture wanted they to praise
Their Maker, in fit strains pronounced, or sung
Unmeditated; such prompt eloquence
Flowed from their lips, in prose or numerous verse,
More tuneable than needed lute or harp
To add more sweetness; and they thus began.
These are thy glorious works, Parent of good,
Almighty!  Thine this universal frame,
Thus wonderous fair;  Thyself how wonderous then!
Unspeakable, who sitst above these heavens
To us invisible, or dimly seen
In these thy lowest works; yet these declare
Thy goodness beyond thought, and power divine.
Speak, ye who best can tell, ye sons of light,
Angels; for ye behold him, and with songs
And choral symphonies, day without night,
Circle his throne rejoicing; ye in Heaven
On Earth join all ye Creatures to extol
Him first, him last, him midst, and without end.
Fairest of stars, last in the train of night,
If better thou belong not to the dawn,
Sure pledge of day, that crownest the smiling morn
With thy bright circlet, praise him in thy sphere,
While day arises, that sweet hour of prime.
Thou Sun, of this great world both eye and soul,
Acknowledge him thy greater; sound his praise
In thy eternal course, both when thou climbest,
And when high noon hast gained, and when thou fallest.
Moon, that now meetest the orient sun, now flyest,
With the fixed Stars, fixed in their orb that flies;
And ye five other wandering Fires, that move
In mystick dance not without song, resound
His praise, who out of darkness called up light.
Air, and ye Elements, the eldest birth
Of Nature's womb, that in quaternion run
Perpetual circle, multiform; and mix
And nourish all things; let your ceaseless change
Vary to our great Maker still new praise.
Ye Mists and Exhalations, that now rise
From hill or steaming lake, dusky or gray,
Till the sun paint your fleecy skirts with gold,
In honour to the world's great Author rise;
Whether to deck with clouds the uncoloured sky,
Or wet the thirsty earth with falling showers,
Rising or falling still advance his praise.
His praise, ye Winds, that from four quarters blow,
Breathe soft or loud; and, wave your tops, ye Pines,
With every plant, in sign of worship wave.
Fountains, and ye that warble, as ye flow,
Melodious murmurs, warbling tune his praise.
Join voices, all ye living Souls:  Ye Birds,
That singing up to Heaven-gate ascend,
Bear on your wings and in your notes his praise.
Ye that in waters glide, and ye that walk
The earth, and stately tread, or lowly creep;
Witness if I be silent, morn or even,
To hill, or valley, fountain, or fresh shade,
Made vocal by my song, and taught his praise.
Hail, universal Lord, be bounteous still
To give us only good; and if the night
Have gathered aught of evil, or concealed,
Disperse it, as now light dispels the dark!
So prayed they innocent, and to their thoughts
Firm peace recovered soon, and wonted calm.
On to their morning's rural work they haste,
Among sweet dews and flowers; where any row
Of fruit-trees over-woody reached too far
Their pampered boughs, and needed hands to check
Fruitless embraces: or they led the vine
To wed her elm; she, spoused, about him twines
Her marriageable arms, and with him brings
Her dower, the adopted clusters, to adorn
His barren leaves.  Them thus employed beheld
With pity Heaven's high King, and to him called
Raphael, the sociable Spirit, that deigned
To travel with Tobias, and secured
His marriage with the seventimes-wedded maid.
Raphael, said he, thou hearest what stir on Earth
Satan, from Hell 'scaped through the darksome gulf,
Hath raised in Paradise; and how disturbed
This night the human pair; how he designs
In them at once to ruin all mankind.
Go therefore, half this day as friend with friend
Converse with Adam, in what bower or shade
Thou findest him from the heat of noon retired,
To respite his day-labour with repast,
Or with repose; and such discourse bring on,
As may advise him of his happy state,
Happiness in his power left free to will,
Left to his own free will, his will though free,
Yet mutable; whence warn him to beware
He swerve not, too secure:  Tell him withal
His danger, and from whom; what enemy,
Late fallen himself from Heaven, is plotting now
The fall of others from like state of bliss;
By violence? no, for that shall be withstood;
But by deceit and lies:  This let him know,
Lest, wilfully transgressing, he pretend
Surprisal, unadmonished, unforewarned.
So spake the Eternal Father, and fulfilled
All justice:  Nor delayed the winged Saint
After his charge received; but from among
Thousand celestial Ardours, where he stood
Veiled with his gorgeous wings, up springing light,
Flew through the midst of Heaven; the angelick quires,
On each hand parting, to his speed gave way
Through all the empyreal road; till, at the gate
Of Heaven arrived, the gate self-opened wide
On golden hinges turning, as by work
Divine the sovran Architect had framed.
From hence no cloud, or, to obstruct his sight,
Star interposed, however small he sees,
Not unconformed to other shining globes,
Earth, and the garden of God, with cedars crowned
Above all hills.  As when by night the glass
Of Galileo, less assured, observes
Imagined lands and regions in the moon:
Or pilot, from amidst the Cyclades
Delos or Samos first appearing, kens
A cloudy spot.  Down thither prone in flight
He speeds, and through the vast ethereal sky
Sails between worlds and worlds, with steady wing
Now on the polar winds, then with quick fan
Winnows the buxom air; till, within soar
Of towering eagles, to all the fowls he seems
A phoenix, gazed by all as that sole bird,
When, to enshrine his reliques in the Sun's
Bright temple, to Egyptian Thebes he flies.
At once on the eastern cliff of Paradise
He lights, and to his proper shape returns
A Seraph winged:  Six wings he wore, to shade
His lineaments divine; the pair that clad
Each shoulder broad, came mantling o'er his breast
With regal ornament; the middle pair
Girt like a starry zone his waist, and round
Skirted his loins and thighs with downy gold
And colours dipt in Heaven; the third his feet
Shadowed from either heel with feathered mail,
Sky-tinctured grain.  Like Maia's son he stood,
And shook his plumes, that heavenly fragrance filled
The circuit wide.  Straight knew him all the bands
Of Angels under watch; and to his state,
And to his message high, in honour rise;
For on some message high they guessed him bound.
Their glittering tents he passed, and now is come
Into the blissful field, through groves of myrrh,
And flowering odours, cassia, nard, and balm;
A wilderness of sweets; for Nature here
Wantoned as in her prime, and played at will
Her virgin fancies pouring forth more sweet,
Wild above rule or art, enormous bliss.
Him through the spicy forest onward come
Adam discerned, as in the door he sat
Of his cool bower, while now the mounted sun
Shot down direct his fervid rays to warm
Earth's inmost womb, more warmth than Adam needs:
And Eve within, due at her hour prepared
For dinner savoury fruits, of taste to please
True appetite, and not disrelish thirst
Of nectarous draughts between, from milky stream,
Berry or grape:  To whom thus Adam called.
Haste hither, Eve, and worth thy sight behold
Eastward among those trees, what glorious shape
Comes this way moving; seems another morn
Risen on mid-noon; some great behest from Heaven
To us perhaps he brings, and will vouchsafe
This day to be our guest.  But go with speed,
And, what thy stores contain, bring forth, and pour
Abundance, fit to honour and receive
Our heavenly stranger:  Well we may afford
Our givers their own gifts, and large bestow
From large bestowed, where Nature multiplies
Her fertile growth, and by disburthening grows
More fruitful, which instructs us not to spare.
To whom thus Eve.  Adam, earth's hallowed mould,
Of God inspired! small store will serve, where store,
All seasons, ripe for use hangs on the stalk;
Save what by frugal storing firmness gains
To nourish, and superfluous moist consumes:
But I will haste, and from each bough and brake,
Each plant and juciest gourd, will pluck such choice
To entertain our Angel-guest, as he
Beholding shall confess, that here on Earth
God hath dispensed his bounties as in Heaven.
So saying, with dispatchful looks in haste
She turns, on hospitable thoughts intent
What choice to choose for delicacy best,
What order, so contrived as not to mix
Tastes, not well joined, inelegant, but bring
Taste after taste upheld with kindliest change;
Bestirs her then, and from each tender stalk
Whatever Earth, all-bearing mother, yields
In India East or West, or middle shore
In Pontus or the Punick coast, or where
Alcinous reigned, fruit of all kinds, in coat
Rough, or smooth rind, or bearded husk, or shell,
She gathers, tribute large, and on the board
Heaps with unsparing hand; for drink the grape
She crushes, inoffensive must, and meaths
From many a berry, and from sweet kernels pressed
She tempers dulcet creams; nor these to hold
Wants her fit vessels pure; then strows the ground
With rose and odours from the shrub unfumed.
Mean while our primitive great sire, to meet
His God-like guest, walks forth, without more train
Accompanied than with his own complete
Perfections; in himself was all his state,
More solemn than the tedious pomp that waits
On princes, when their rich retinue long
Of horses led, and grooms besmeared with gold,
Dazzles the croud, and sets them all agape.
Nearer his presence Adam, though not awed,
Yet with submiss approach and reverence meek,
As to a superiour nature bowing low,
Thus said.  Native of Heaven, for other place
None can than Heaven such glorious shape contain;
Since, by descending from the thrones above,
Those happy places thou hast deigned a while
To want, and honour these, vouchsafe with us
Two only, who yet by sovran gift possess
This spacious ground, in yonder shady bower
To rest; and what the garden choicest bears
To sit and taste, till this meridian heat
Be over, and the sun more cool decline.
Whom thus the angelick Virtue answered mild.
Adam, I therefore came; nor art thou such
Created, or such place hast here to dwell,
As may not oft invite, though Spirits of Heaven,
To visit thee; lead on then where thy bower
O'ershades; for these mid-hours, till evening rise,
I have at will.  So to the sylvan lodge
They came, that like Pomona's arbour smiled,
With flowerets decked, and fragrant smells; but Eve,
Undecked save with herself, more lovely fair
Than Wood-Nymph, or the fairest Goddess feigned
Of three that in mount Ida naked strove,
Stood to entertain her guest from Heaven; no veil
She needed, virtue-proof; no thought infirm
Altered her cheek.  On whom the Angel Hail
Bestowed, the holy salutation used
Long after to blest Mary, second Eve.
Hail, Mother of Mankind, whose fruitful womb
Shall fill the world more numerous with thy sons,
Than with these various fruits the trees of God
Have heaped this table!--Raised of grassy turf
Their table was, and mossy seats had round,
And on her ample square from side to side
All autumn piled, though spring and autumn here
Danced hand in hand.  A while discourse they hold;
No fear lest dinner cool; when thus began
Our author.  Heavenly stranger, please to taste
These bounties, which our Nourisher, from whom
All perfect good, unmeasured out, descends,
To us for food and for delight hath caused
The earth to yield; unsavoury food perhaps
To spiritual natures; only this I know,
That one celestial Father gives to all.
To whom the Angel.  Therefore what he gives
(Whose praise be ever sung) to Man in part
Spiritual, may of purest Spirits be found
No ingrateful food:  And food alike those pure
Intelligential substances require,
As doth your rational; and both contain
Within them every lower faculty
Of sense, whereby they hear, see, smell, touch, taste,
Tasting concoct, digest, assimilate,
And corporeal to incorporeal turn.
For know, whatever was created, needs
To be sustained and fed:  Of elements
The grosser feeds the purer, earth the sea,
Earth and the sea feed air, the air those fires
Ethereal, and as lowest first the moon;
Whence in her visage round those spots, unpurged
Vapours not yet into her substance turned.
Nor doth the moon no nourishment exhale
From her moist continent to higher orbs.
The sun that light imparts to all, receives
From all his alimental recompence
In humid exhalations, and at even
Sups with the ocean.  Though in Heaven the trees
Of life ambrosial fruitage bear, and vines
Yield nectar; though from off the boughs each morn
We brush mellifluous dews, and find the ground
Covered with pearly grain:  Yet God hath here
Varied his bounty so with new delights,
As may compare with Heaven; and to taste
Think not I shall be nice.  So down they sat,
And to their viands fell; nor seemingly
The Angel, nor in mist, the common gloss
Of Theologians; but with keen dispatch
Of real hunger, and concoctive heat
To transubstantiate:  What redounds, transpires
Through Spirits with ease; nor wonder;if by fire
Of sooty coal the empirick alchemist
Can turn, or holds it possible to turn,
Metals of drossiest ore to perfect gold,
As from the mine.  Mean while at table Eve
Ministered naked, and their flowing cups
With pleasant liquours crowned:  O innocence
Deserving Paradise! if ever, then,
Then had the sons of God excuse to have been
Enamoured at that sight; but in those hearts
Love unlibidinous reigned, nor jealousy
Was understood, the injured lover's hell.
Thus when with meats and drinks they had sufficed,
Not burdened nature, sudden mind arose
In Adam, not to let the occasion pass
Given him by this great conference to know
Of things above his world, and of their being
Who dwell in Heaven, whose excellence he saw
Transcend his own so far; whose radiant forms,
Divine effulgence, whose high power, so far
Exceeded human; and his wary speech
Thus to the empyreal minister he framed.
Inhabitant with God, now know I well
Thy favour, in this honour done to Man;
Under whose lowly roof thou hast vouchsafed
To enter, and these earthly fruits to taste,
Food not of Angels, yet accepted so,
As that more willingly thou couldst not seem
At Heaven's high feasts to have fed: yet what compare
To whom the winged Hierarch replied.
O Adam, One Almighty is, from whom
All things proceed, and up to him return,
If not depraved from good, created all
Such to perfection, one first matter all,
Endued with various forms, various degrees
Of substance, and, in things that live, of life;
But more refined, more spiritous, and pure,
As nearer to him placed, or nearer tending
Each in their several active spheres assigned,
Till body up to spirit work, in bounds
Proportioned to each kind.  So from the root
Springs lighter the green stalk, from thence the leaves
More aery, last the bright consummate flower
Spirits odorous breathes: flowers and their fruit,
Man's nourishment, by gradual scale sublimed,
To vital spirits aspire, to animal,
To intellectual; give both life and sense,
Fancy and understanding; whence the soul
Reason receives, and reason is her being,
Discursive, or intuitive; discourse
Is oftest yours, the latter most is ours,
Differing but in degree, of kind the same.
Wonder not then, what God for you saw good
If I refuse not, but convert, as you
To proper substance.  Time may come, when Men
With Angels may participate, and find
No inconvenient diet, nor too light fare;
And from these corporal nutriments perhaps
Your bodies may at last turn all to spirit,
Improved by tract of time, and, winged, ascend
Ethereal, as we; or may, at choice,
Here or in heavenly Paradises dwell;
If ye be found obedient, and retain
Unalterably firm his love entire,
Whose progeny you are.  Mean while enjoy
Your fill what happiness this happy state
Can comprehend, incapable of more.
To whom the patriarch of mankind replied.
O favourable Spirit, propitious guest,
Well hast thou taught the way that might direct
Our knowledge, and the scale of nature set
From center to circumference; whereon,
In contemplation of created things,
By steps we may ascend to God.  But say,
What meant that caution joined, If ye be found
Obedient?  Can we want obedience then
To him, or possibly his love desert,
Who formed us from the dust and placed us here
Full to the utmost measure of what bliss
Human desires can seek or apprehend?
To whom the Angel.  Son of Heaven and Earth,
Attend!  That thou art happy, owe to God;
That thou continuest such, owe to thyself,
That is, to thy obedience; therein stand.
This was that caution given thee; be advised.
God made thee perfect, not immutable;
And good he made thee, but to persevere
He left it in thy power; ordained thy will
By nature free, not over-ruled by fate
Inextricable, or strict necessity:
Our voluntary service he requires,
Not our necessitated; such with him
Finds no acceptance, nor can find; for how
Can hearts, not free, be tried whether they serve
Willing or no, who will but what they must
By destiny, and can no other choose?
Myself, and all the angelick host, that stand
In sight of God, enthroned, our happy state
Hold, as you yours, while our obedience holds;
On other surety none:  Freely we serve,
Because we freely love, as in our will
To love or not; in this we stand or fall:
And some are fallen, to disobedience fallen,
And so from Heaven to deepest Hell; O fall
From what high state of bliss, into what woe!
To whom our great progenitor.  Thy words
Attentive, and with more delighted ear,
Divine instructer, I have heard, than when
Cherubick songs by night from neighbouring hills
Aereal musick send:  Nor knew I not
To be both will and deed created free;
Yet that we never shall forget to love
Our Maker, and obey him whose command
Single is yet so just, my constant thoughts
Assured me, and still assure:  Though what thou tellest
Hath passed in Heaven, some doubt within me move,
But more desire to hear, if thou consent,
The full relation, which must needs be strange,
Worthy of sacred silence to be heard;
And we have yet large day, for scarce the sun
Hath finished half his journey, and scarce begins
His other half in the great zone of Heaven.
Thus Adam made request; and Raphael,
After short pause assenting, thus began.
High matter thou enjoinest me, O prime of men,
Sad task and hard:  For how shall I relate
To human sense the invisible exploits
Of warring Spirits? how, without remorse,
The ruin of so many glorious once
And perfect while they stood? how last unfold
The secrets of another world, perhaps
Not lawful to reveal? yet for thy good
This is dispensed; and what surmounts the reach
Of human sense, I shall delineate so,
By likening spiritual to corporal forms,
As may express them best; though what if Earth
Be but a shadow of Heaven, and things therein
Each to other like, more than on earth is thought?
As yet this world was not, and Chaos wild
Reigned where these Heavens now roll, where Earth now rests
Upon her center poised; when on a day
(For time, though in eternity, applied
To motion, measures all things durable
By present, past, and future,) on such day
As Heaven's great year brings forth, the empyreal host
Of Angels by imperial summons called,
Innumerable before the Almighty's throne
Forthwith, from all the ends of Heaven, appeared
Under their Hierarchs in orders bright:
Ten thousand thousand ensigns high advanced,
Standards and gonfalons 'twixt van and rear
Stream in the air, and for distinction serve
Of hierarchies, of orders, and degrees;
Or in their glittering tissues bear imblazed
Holy memorials, acts of zeal and love
Recorded eminent.  Thus when in orbs
Of circuit inexpressible they stood,
Orb within orb, the Father Infinite,
By whom in bliss imbosomed sat the Son,
Amidst as from a flaming mount, whose top
Brightness had made invisible, thus spake.
Hear, all ye Angels, progeny of light,
Thrones, Dominations, Princedoms, Virtues, Powers;
Hear my decree, which unrevoked shall stand.
This day I have begot whom I declare
My only Son, and on this holy hill
Him have anointed, whom ye now behold
At my right hand; your head I him appoint;
And by myself have sworn, to him shall bow
All knees in Heaven, and shall confess him Lord:
Under his great vice-gerent reign abide
United, as one individual soul,
For ever happy:  Him who disobeys,
Me disobeys, breaks union, and that day,
Cast out from God and blessed vision, falls
Into utter darkness, deep ingulfed, his place
Ordained without redemption, without end.
So spake the Omnipotent, and with his words
All seemed well pleased; all seemed, but were not all.
That day, as other solemn days, they spent
In song and dance about the sacred hill;
Mystical dance, which yonder starry sphere
Of planets, and of fixed, in all her wheels
Resembles nearest, mazes intricate,
Eccentrick, intervolved, yet regular
Then most, when most irregular they seem;
And in their motions harmony divine
So smooths her charming tones, that God's own ear
Listens delighted.  Evening now approached,
(For we have also our evening and our morn,
We ours for change delectable, not need;)
Forthwith from dance to sweet repast they turn
Desirous; all in circles as they stood,
Tables are set, and on a sudden piled
With Angels food, and rubied nectar flows
In pearl, in diamond, and massy gold,
Fruit of delicious vines, the growth of Heaven.
On flowers reposed, and with fresh flowerets crowned,
They eat, they drink, and in communion sweet
Quaff immortality and joy, secure
Of surfeit, where full measure only bounds
Excess, before the all-bounteous King, who showered
With copious hand, rejoicing in their joy.
Now when ambrosial night with clouds exhaled
From that high mount of God, whence light and shade
Spring both, the face of brightest Heaven had changed
To grateful twilight, (for night comes not there
In darker veil,) and roseat dews disposed
All but the unsleeping eyes of God to rest;
Wide over all the plain, and wider far
Than all this globous earth in plain outspread,
(Such are the courts of God) the angelick throng,
Dispersed in bands and files, their camp extend
By living streams among the trees of life,
Pavilions numberless, and sudden reared,
Celestial tabernacles, where they slept
Fanned with cool winds; save those, who, in their course,
Melodious hymns about the sovran throne
Alternate all night long: but not so waked
Satan; so call him now, his former name
Is heard no more in Heaven; he of the first,
If not the first Arch-Angel, great in power,
In favour and pre-eminence, yet fraught
With envy against the Son of God, that day
Honoured by his great Father, and proclaimed
Messiah King anointed, could not bear
Through pride that sight, and thought himself impaired.
Deep malice thence conceiving and disdain,
Soon as midnight brought on the dusky hour
Friendliest to sleep and silence, he resolved
With all his legions to dislodge, and leave
Unworshipt, unobeyed, the throne supreme,
Contemptuous; and his next subordinate
Awakening, thus to him in secret spake.
Sleepest thou, Companion dear?  What sleep can close
Thy eye-lids? and rememberest what decree
Of yesterday, so late hath passed the lips
Of Heaven's Almighty.  Thou to me thy thoughts
Wast wont, I mine to thee was wont to impart;
Both waking we were one; how then can now
Thy sleep dissent?  New laws thou seest imposed;
New laws from him who reigns, new minds may raise
In us who serve, new counsels to debate
What doubtful may ensue:  More in this place
To utter is not safe.  Assemble thou
Of all those myriads which we lead the chief;
Tell them, that by command, ere yet dim night
Her shadowy cloud withdraws, I am to haste,
And all who under me their banners wave,
Homeward, with flying march, where we possess
The quarters of the north; there to prepare
Fit entertainment to receive our King,
The great Messiah, and his new commands,
Who speedily through all the hierarchies
Intends to pass triumphant, and give laws.
So spake the false Arch-Angel, and infused
Bad influence into the unwary breast
Of his associate:  He together calls,
Or several one by one, the regent Powers,
Under him Regent; tells, as he was taught,
That the Most High commanding, now ere night,
Now ere dim night had disincumbered Heaven,
The great hierarchal standard was to move;
Tells the suggested cause, and casts between
Ambiguous words and jealousies, to sound
Or taint integrity:  But all obeyed
The wonted signal, and superiour voice
Of their great Potentate; for great indeed
His name, and high was his degree in Heaven;
His countenance, as the morning-star that guides
The starry flock, allured them, and with lies
Drew after him the third part of Heaven's host.
Mean while the Eternal eye, whose sight discerns
Abstrusest thoughts, from forth his holy mount,
And from within the golden lamps that burn
Nightly before him, saw without their light
Rebellion rising; saw in whom, how spread
Among the sons of morn, what multitudes
Were banded to oppose his high decree;
And, smiling, to his only Son thus said.
Son, thou in whom my glory I behold
In full resplendence, Heir of all my might,
Nearly it now concerns us to be sure
Of our Omnipotence, and with what arms
We mean to hold what anciently we claim
Of deity or empire:  Such a foe
Is rising, who intends to erect his throne
Equal to ours, throughout the spacious north;
Nor so content, hath in his thought to try
In battle, what our power is, or our right.
Let us advise, and to this hazard draw
With speed what force is left, and all employ
In our defence; lest unawares we lose
This our high place, our sanctuary, our hill.
To whom the Son with calm aspect and clear,
Lightning divine, ineffable, serene,
Made answer.  Mighty Father, thou thy foes
Justly hast in derision, and, secure,
Laughest at their vain designs and tumults vain,
Matter to me of glory, whom their hate
Illustrates, when they see all regal power
Given me to quell their pride, and in event
Know whether I be dextrous to subdue
Thy rebels, or be found the worst in Heaven.
So spake the Son; but Satan, with his Powers,
Far was advanced on winged speed; an host
Innumerable as the stars of night,
Or stars of morning, dew-drops, which the sun
Impearls on every leaf and every flower.
Regions they passed, the mighty regencies
Of Seraphim, and Potentates, and Thrones,
In their triple degrees; regions to which
All thy dominion, Adam, is no more
Than what this garden is to all the earth,
And all the sea, from one entire globose
Stretched into longitude; which having passed,
At length into the limits of the north
They came; and Satan to his royal seat
High on a hill, far blazing, as a mount
Raised on a mount, with pyramids and towers
From diamond quarries hewn, and rocks of gold;
The palace of great Lucifer, (so call
That structure in the dialect of men
Interpreted,) which not long after, he
Affecting all equality with God,
In imitation of that mount whereon
Messiah was declared in sight of Heaven,
The Mountain of the Congregation called;
For thither he assembled all his train,
Pretending so commanded to consult
About the great reception of their King,
Thither to come, and with calumnious art
Of counterfeited truth thus held their ears.
Thrones, Dominations, Princedoms, Virtues, Powers;
If these magnifick titles yet remain
Not merely titular, since by decree
Another now hath to himself engrossed
All power, and us eclipsed under the name
Of King anointed, for whom all this haste
Of midnight-march, and hurried meeting here,
This only to consult how we may best,
With what may be devised of honours new,
Receive him coming to receive from us
Knee-tribute yet unpaid, prostration vile!
Too much to one! but double how endured,
To one, and to his image now proclaimed?
But what if better counsels might erect
Our minds, and teach us to cast off this yoke?
Will ye submit your necks, and choose to bend
The supple knee?  Ye will not, if I trust
To know ye right, or if ye know yourselves
Natives and sons of Heaven possessed before
By none; and if not equal all, yet free,
Equally free; for orders and degrees
Jar not with liberty, but well consist.
Who can in reason then, or right, assume
Monarchy over such as live by right
His equals, if in power and splendour less,
In freedom equal? or can introduce
Law and edict on us, who without law
Err not? much less for this to be our Lord,
And look for adoration, to the abuse
Of those imperial titles, which assert
Our being ordained to govern, not to serve.
Thus far his bold discourse without controul
Had audience; when among the Seraphim
Abdiel, than whom none with more zeal adored
The Deity, and divine commands obeyed,
Stood up, and in a flame of zeal severe
The current of his fury thus opposed.
O argument blasphemous, false, and proud!
Words which no ear ever to hear in Heaven
Expected, least of all from thee,  Ingrate,
In place thyself so high above thy peers.
Canst thou with impious obloquy condemn
The just decree of God, pronounced and sworn,
That to his only Son, by right endued
With regal scepter, every soul in Heaven
Shall bend the knee, and in that honour due
Confess him rightful King? unjust, thou sayest,
Flatly unjust, to bind with laws the free,
And equal over equals to let reign,
One over all with unsucceeded power.
Shalt thou give law to God? shalt thou dispute
With him the points of liberty, who made
Thee what thou art, and formed the Powers of Heaven
Such as he pleased, and circumscribed their being?
Yet, by experience taught, we know how good,
And of our good and of our dignity
How provident he is; how far from thought
To make us less, bent rather to exalt
Our happy state, under one head more near
United.  But to grant it thee unjust,
That equal over equals monarch reign:
Thyself, though great and glorious, dost thou count,
Or all angelick nature joined in one,
Equal to him begotten Son? by whom,
As by his Word, the Mighty Father made
All things, even thee; and all the Spirits of Heaven
By him created in their bright degrees,
Crowned them with glory, and to their glory named
Thrones, Dominations, Princedoms, Virtues, Powers,
Essential Powers; nor by his reign obscured,
But more illustrious made; since he the head
One of our number thus reduced becomes;
His laws our laws; all honour to him done
Returns our own.  Cease then this impious rage,
And tempt not these; but hasten to appease
The incensed Father, and the incensed Son,
While pardon may be found in time besought.
So spake the fervent Angel; but his zeal
None seconded, as out of season judged,
Or singular and rash:  Whereat rejoiced
The Apostate, and, more haughty, thus replied.
That we were formed then sayest thou? and the work
Of secondary hands, by task transferred
From Father to his Son? strange point and new!
Doctrine which we would know whence learned: who saw
When this creation was? rememberest thou
Thy making, while the Maker gave thee being?
We know no time when we were not as now;
Know none before us, self-begot, self-raised
By our own quickening power, when fatal course
Had circled his full orb, the birth mature
Of this our native Heaven, ethereal sons.
Our puissance is our own; our own right hand
Shall teach us highest deeds, by proof to try
Who is our equal:  Then thou shalt behold
Whether by supplication we intend
Address, and to begirt the almighty throne
Beseeching or besieging.  This report,
These tidings carry to the anointed King;
And fly, ere evil intercept thy flight.
He said; and, as the sound of waters deep,
Hoarse murmur echoed to his words applause
Through the infinite host; nor less for that
The flaming Seraph fearless, though alone
Encompassed round with foes, thus answered bold.
O alienate from God, O Spirit accursed,
Forsaken of all good!  I see thy fall
Determined, and thy hapless crew involved
In this perfidious fraud, contagion spread
Both of thy crime and punishment:  Henceforth
No more be troubled how to quit the yoke
Of God's Messiah; those indulgent laws
Will not be now vouchsafed; other decrees
Against thee are gone forth without recall;
That golden scepter, which thou didst reject,
Is now an iron rod to bruise and break
Thy disobedience.  Well thou didst advise;
Yet not for thy advice or threats I fly
These wicked tents devoted, lest the wrath
Impendent, raging into sudden flame,
Distinguish not:  For soon expect to feel
His thunder on thy head, devouring fire.
Then who created thee lamenting learn,
When who can uncreate thee thou shalt know.
So spake the Seraph Abdiel, faithful found
Among the faithless, faithful only he;
Among innumerable false, unmoved,
Unshaken, unseduced, unterrified,
His loyalty he kept, his love, his zeal;
Nor number, nor example, with him wrought
To swerve from truth, or change his constant mind,
Though single.  From amidst them forth he passed,
Long way through hostile scorn, which he sustained
Superiour, nor of violence feared aught;
And, with retorted scorn, his back he turned
On those proud towers to swift destruction doomed.



Book VI


All night the dreadless Angel, unpursued,
Through Heaven's wide champain held his way; till Morn,
Waked by the circling Hours, with rosy hand
Unbarred the gates of light.  There is a cave
Within the mount of God, fast by his throne,
Where light and darkness in perpetual round
Lodge and dislodge by turns, which makes through Heaven
Grateful vicissitude, like day and night;
Light issues forth, and at the other door
Obsequious darkness enters, till her hour
To veil the Heaven, though darkness there might well
Seem twilight here:  And now went forth the Morn
Such as in highest Heaven arrayed in gold
Empyreal; from before her vanished Night,
Shot through with orient beams; when all the plain
Covered with thick embattled squadrons bright,
Chariots, and flaming arms, and fiery steeds,
Reflecting blaze on blaze, first met his view:
War he perceived, war in procinct; and found
Already known what he for news had thought
To have reported:  Gladly then he mixed
Among those friendly Powers, who him received
With joy and acclamations loud, that one,
That of so many myriads fallen, yet one
Returned not lost.  On to the sacred hill
They led him high applauded, and present
Before the seat supreme; from whence a voice,
From midst a golden cloud, thus mild was heard.
Servant of God. Well done; well hast thou fought
The better fight, who single hast maintained
Against revolted multitudes the cause
Of truth, in word mightier than they in arms;
And for the testimony of truth hast borne
Universal reproach, far worse to bear
Than violence; for this was all thy care
To stand approved in sight of God, though worlds
Judged thee perverse:  The easier conquest now
Remains thee, aided by this host of friends,
Back on thy foes more glorious to return,
Than scorned thou didst depart; and to subdue
By force, who reason for their law refuse,
Right reason for their law, and for their King
Messiah, who by right of merit reigns.
Go, Michael, of celestial armies prince,
And thou, in military prowess next,
Gabriel, lead forth to battle these my sons
Invincible; lead forth my armed Saints,
By thousands and by millions, ranged for fight,
Equal in number to that Godless crew
Rebellious:  Them with fire and hostile arms
Fearless assault; and, to the brow of Heaven
Pursuing, drive them out from God and bliss,
Into their place of punishment, the gulf
Of Tartarus, which ready opens wide
His fiery Chaos to receive their fall.
So spake the Sovran Voice, and clouds began
To darken all the hill, and smoke to roll
In dusky wreaths, reluctant flames, the sign
Of wrath awaked; nor with less dread the loud
Ethereal trumpet from on high 'gan blow:
At which command the Powers militant,
That stood for Heaven, in mighty quadrate joined
Of union irresistible, moved on
In silence their bright legions, to the sound
Of instrumental harmony, that breathed
Heroick ardour to adventurous deeds
Under their God-like leaders, in the cause
Of God and his Messiah.  On they move
Indissolubly firm; nor obvious hill,
Nor straitening vale, nor wood, nor stream, divides
Their perfect ranks; for high above the ground
Their march was, and the passive air upbore
Their nimble tread; as when the total kind
Of birds, in orderly array on wing,
Came summoned over Eden to receive
Their names of thee; so over many a tract
Of Heaven they marched, and many a province wide,
Tenfold the length of this terrene:  At last,
Far in the horizon to the north appeared
From skirt to skirt a fiery region, stretched
In battailous aspect, and nearer view
Bristled with upright beams innumerable
Of rigid spears, and helmets thronged, and shields
Various, with boastful argument portrayed,
The banded Powers of Satan hasting on
With furious expedition; for they weened
That self-same day, by fight or by surprise,
To win the mount of God, and on his throne
To set the Envier of his state, the proud
Aspirer; but their thoughts proved fond and vain
In the mid way:  Though strange to us it seemed
At first, that Angel should with Angel war,
And in fierce hosting meet, who wont to meet
So oft in festivals of joy and love
Unanimous, as sons of one great Sire,
Hymning the Eternal Father:  But the shout
Of battle now began, and rushing sound
Of onset ended soon each milder thought.
High in the midst, exalted as a God,
The Apostate in his sun-bright chariot sat,
Idol of majesty divine, enclosed
With flaming Cherubim, and golden shields;
Then lighted from his gorgeous throne, for now
"twixt host and host but narrow space was left,
A dreadful interval, and front to front
Presented stood in terrible array
Of hideous length:  Before the cloudy van,
On the rough edge of battle ere it joined,
Satan, with vast and haughty strides advanced,
Came towering, armed in adamant and gold;
Abdiel that sight endured not, where he stood
Among the mightiest, bent on highest deeds,
And thus his own undaunted heart explores.
O Heaven! that such resemblance of the Highest
Should yet remain, where faith and realty
Remain not:  Wherefore should not strength and might
There fail where virtue fails, or weakest prove
Where boldest, though to fight unconquerable?
His puissance, trusting in the Almighty's aid,
I mean to try, whose reason I have tried
Unsound and false; nor is it aught but just,
That he, who in debate of truth hath won,
Should win in arms, in both disputes alike
Victor; though brutish that contest and foul,
When reason hath to deal with force, yet so
Most reason is that reason overcome.
So pondering, and from his armed peers
Forth stepping opposite, half-way he met
His daring foe, at this prevention more
Incensed, and thus securely him defied.
Proud, art thou met? thy hope was to have reached
The highth of thy aspiring unopposed,
The throne of God unguarded, and his side
Abandoned, at the terrour of thy power
Or potent tongue:  Fool!not to think how vain
Against the Omnipotent to rise in arms;
Who out of smallest things could, without end,
Have raised incessant armies to defeat
Thy folly; or with solitary hand
Reaching beyond all limit, at one blow,
Unaided, could have finished thee, and whelmed
Thy legions under darkness:  But thou seest
All are not of thy train; there be, who faith
Prefer, and piety to God, though then
To thee not visible, when I alone
Seemed in thy world erroneous to dissent
From all:  My sect thou seest;now learn too late
How few sometimes may know, when thousands err.
Whom the grand foe, with scornful eye askance,
Thus answered.  Ill for thee, but in wished hour
Of my revenge, first sought for, thou returnest
From flight, seditious Angel! to receive
Thy merited reward, the first assay
Of this right hand provoked, since first that tongue,
Inspired with contradiction, durst oppose
A third part of the Gods, in synod met
Their deities to assert; who, while they feel
Vigour divine within them, can allow
Omnipotence to none.  But well thou comest
Before thy fellows, ambitious to win
From me some plume, that thy success may show
Destruction to the rest:  This pause between,
(Unanswered lest thou boast) to let thee know,
At first I thought that Liberty and Heaven
To heavenly souls had been all one; but now
I see that most through sloth had rather serve,
Ministring Spirits, trained up in feast and song!
Such hast thou armed, the minstrelsy of Heaven,
Servility with freedom to contend,
As both their deeds compared this day shall prove.
To whom in brief thus Abdiel stern replied.
Apostate! still thou errest, nor end wilt find
Of erring, from the path of truth remote:
Unjustly thou depravest it with the name
Of servitude, to serve whom God ordains,
Or Nature:  God and Nature bid the same,
When he who rules is worthiest, and excels
Them whom he governs.  This is servitude,
To serve the unwise, or him who hath rebelled
Against his worthier, as thine now serve thee,
Thyself not free, but to thyself enthralled;
Yet lewdly darest our ministring upbraid.
Reign thou in Hell, thy kingdom; let me serve
In Heaven God ever blest, and his divine
Behests obey, worthiest to be obeyed;
Yet chains in Hell, not realms, expect:  Mean while
From me returned, as erst thou saidst, from flight,
This greeting on thy impious crest receive.
So saying, a noble stroke he lifted high,
Which hung not, but so swift with tempest fell
On the proud crest of Satan, that no sight,
Nor motion of swift thought, less could his shield,
Such ruin intercept:  Ten paces huge
He back recoiled; the tenth on bended knee
His massy spear upstaid; as if on earth
Winds under ground, or waters forcing way,
Sidelong had pushed a mountain from his seat,
Half sunk with all his pines.  Amazement seised
The rebel Thrones, but greater rage, to see
Thus foiled their mightiest; ours joy filled, and shout,
Presage of victory, and fierce desire
Of battle:  Whereat Michael bid sound
The Arch-Angel trumpet; through the vast of Heaven
It sounded, and the faithful armies rung
Hosanna to the Highest:  Nor stood at gaze
The adverse legions, nor less hideous joined
The horrid shock.  Now storming fury rose,
And clamour such as heard in Heaven till now
Was never; arms on armour clashing brayed
Horrible discord, and the madding wheels
Of brazen chariots raged; dire was the noise
Of conflict; over head the dismal hiss
Of fiery darts in flaming vollies flew,
And flying vaulted either host with fire.
So under fiery cope together rushed
Both battles main, with ruinous assault
And inextinguishable rage.  All Heaven
Resounded; and had Earth been then, all Earth
Had to her center shook.  What wonder? when
Millions of fierce encountering Angels fought
On either side, the least of whom could wield
These elements, and arm him with the force
Of all their regions:  How much more of power
Army against army numberless to raise
Dreadful combustion warring, and disturb,
Though not destroy, their happy native seat;
Had not the Eternal King Omnipotent,
From his strong hold of Heaven, high over-ruled
And limited their might; though numbered such
As each divided legion might have seemed
A numerous host; in strength each armed hand
A legion; led in fight, yet leader seemed
Each warriour single as in chief, expert
When to advance, or stand, or turn the sway
Of battle, open when, and when to close
The ridges of grim war:  No thought of flight,
None of retreat, no unbecoming deed
That argued fear; each on himself relied,
As only in his arm the moment lay
Of victory:  Deeds of eternal fame
Were done, but infinite; for wide was spread
That war and various; sometimes on firm ground
A standing fight, then, soaring on main wing,
Tormented all the air; all air seemed then
Conflicting fire.  Long time in even scale
The battle hung; till Satan, who that day
Prodigious power had shown, and met in arms
No equal, ranging through the dire attack
Of fighting Seraphim confused, at length
Saw where the sword of Michael smote, and felled
Squadrons at once; with huge two-handed sway
Brandished aloft, the horrid edge came down
Wide-wasting; such destruction to withstand
He hasted, and opposed the rocky orb
Of tenfold adamant, his ample shield,
A vast circumference.  At his approach
The great Arch-Angel from his warlike toil
Surceased, and glad, as hoping here to end
Intestine war in Heaven, the arch-foe subdued
Or captive dragged in chains, with hostile frown
And visage all inflamed first thus began.
Author of evil, unknown till thy revolt,
Unnamed in Heaven, now plenteous as thou seest
These acts of hateful strife, hateful to all,
Though heaviest by just measure on thyself,
And thy  adherents:  How hast thou disturbed
Heaven's blessed peace, and into nature brought
Misery, uncreated till the crime
Of thy rebellion! how hast thou instilled
Thy malice into thousands, once upright
And faithful, now proved false!  But think not here
To trouble holy rest; Heaven casts thee out
From all her confines.  Heaven, the seat of bliss,
Brooks not the works of violence and war.
Hence then, and evil go with thee along,
Thy offspring, to the place of evil, Hell;
Thou and thy wicked crew! there mingle broils,
Ere this avenging sword begin thy doom,
Or some more sudden vengeance, winged from God,
Precipitate thee with augmented pain.
So spake the Prince of Angels; to whom thus
The Adversary.  Nor think thou with wind
Of aery threats to awe whom yet with deeds
Thou canst not.  Hast thou turned the least of these
To flight, or if to fall, but that they rise
Unvanquished, easier to transact with me
That thou shouldst hope, imperious, and with threats
To chase me hence? err not, that so shall end
The strife which thou callest evil, but we style
The strife of glory; which we mean to win,
Or turn this Heaven itself into the Hell
Thou fablest; here however to dwell free,
If not to reign:  Mean while thy utmost force,
And join him named Almighty to thy aid,
I fly not, but have sought thee far and nigh.
They ended parle, and both addressed for fight
Unspeakable; for who, though with the tongue
Of Angels, can relate, or to what things
Liken on earth conspicuous, that may lift
Human imagination to such highth
Of Godlike power? for likest Gods they seemed,
Stood they or moved, in stature, motion, arms,
Fit to decide the empire of great Heaven.
Now waved their fiery swords, and in the air
Made horrid circles; two broad suns their shields
Blazed opposite, while Expectation stood
In horrour:  From each hand with speed retired,
Where erst was thickest fight, the angelick throng,
And left large field, unsafe within the wind
Of such commotion; such as, to set forth
Great things by small, if, nature's concord broke,
Among the constellations war were sprung,
Two planets, rushing from aspect malign
Of fiercest opposition, in mid sky
Should combat, and their jarring spheres confound.
Together both with next to almighty arm
Up-lifted imminent, one stroke they aimed
That might determine, and not need repeat,
As not of power at once; nor odds appeared
In might or swift prevention:  But the sword
Of Michael from the armoury of God
Was given him tempered so, that neither keen
Nor solid might resist that edge: it met
The sword of Satan, with steep force to smite
Descending, and in half cut sheer; nor staid,
But with swift wheel reverse, deep entering, shared
All his right side:  Then Satan first knew pain,
And writhed him to and fro convolved; so sore
The griding sword with discontinuous wound
Passed through him:  But the ethereal substance closed,
Not long divisible; and from the gash
A stream of necturous humour issuing flowed
Sanguine, such as celestial Spirits may bleed,
And all his armour stained, ere while so bright.
Forthwith on all sides to his aid was run
By Angels many and strong, who interposed
Defence, while others bore him on their shields
Back to his chariot, where it stood retired
From off the files of war:  There they him laid
Gnashing for anguish, and despite, and shame,
To find himself not matchless, and his pride
Humbled by such rebuke, so far beneath
His confidence to equal God in power.
Yet soon he healed; for Spirits that live throughout
Vital in every part, not as frail man
In entrails, heart of head, liver or reins,
Cannot but by annihilating die;
Nor in their liquid texture mortal wound
Receive, no more than can the fluid air:
All heart they live, all head, all eye, all ear,
All intellect, all sense; and, as they please,
They limb themselves, and colour, shape, or size
Assume, as?kikes them best, condense or rare.
Mean while in other parts like deeds deserved
Memorial, where the might of Gabriel fought,
And with fierce ensigns pierced the deep array
Of Moloch, furious king; who him defied,
And at his chariot-wheels to drag him bound
Threatened, nor from the Holy One of Heaven
Refrained his tongue blasphemous; but anon
Down cloven to the waist, with shattered arms
And uncouth pain fled bellowing.  On each wing
Uriel, and Raphael, his vaunting foe,
Though huge, and in a rock of diamond armed,
Vanquished Adramelech, and Asmadai,
Two potent Thrones, that to be less than Gods
Disdained, but meaner thoughts learned in their flight,
Mangled with ghastly wounds through plate and mail.
Nor stood unmindful Abdiel to annoy
The atheist crew, but with redoubled blow
Ariel, and Arioch, and the violence
Of Ramiel scorched and blasted, overthrew.
I might relate of thousands, and their names
Eternize here on earth; but those elect
Angels, contented with their fame in Heaven,
Seek not the praise of men:  The other sort,
In might though wonderous and in acts of war,
Nor of renown less eager, yet by doom
Cancelled from Heaven and sacred memory,
Nameless in dark oblivion let them dwell.
For strength from truth divided, and from just,
Illaudable, nought merits but dispraise
And ignominy; yet to glory aspires
Vain-glorious, and through infamy seeks fame:
Therefore eternal silence be their doom.
And now, their mightiest quelled, the battle swerved,
With many an inroad gored; deformed rout
Entered, and foul disorder; all the ground
With shivered armour strown, and on a heap
Chariot and charioteer lay overturned,
And fiery-foaming steeds; what stood, recoiled
O'er-wearied, through the faint Satanick host
Defensive scarce, or with pale fear surprised,
Then first with fear surprised, and sense of pain,
Fled ignominious, to such evil brought
By sin of disobedience; till that hour
Not liable to fear, or flight, or pain.
Far otherwise the inviolable Saints,
In cubick phalanx firm, advanced entire,
Invulnerable, impenetrably armed;
Such high advantages their innocence
Gave them above their foes; not to have sinned,
Not to have disobeyed; in fight they stood
Unwearied, unobnoxious to be pained
By wound, though from their place by violence moved,
Now Night her course began, and, over Heaven
Inducing darkness, grateful truce imposed,
And silence on the odious din of war:
Under her cloudy covert both retired,
Victor and vanquished:  On the foughten field
Michael and his Angels prevalent
Encamping, placed in guard their watches round,
Cherubick waving fires:  On the other part,
Satan with his rebellious disappeared,
Far in the dark dislodged; and, void of rest,
His potentates to council called by night;
And in the midst thus undismayed began.
O now in danger tried, now known in arms
Not to be overpowered, Companions dear,
Found worthy not of liberty alone,
Too mean pretence! but what we more affect,
Honour, dominion, glory, and renown;
Who have sustained one day in doubtful fight,
(And if one day, why not eternal days?)
What Heaven's Lord had powerfullest to send
Against us from about his throne, and judged
Sufficient to subdue us to his will,
But proves not so:  Then fallible, it seems,
Of future we may deem him, though till now
Omniscient thought.  True is, less firmly armed,
Some disadvantage we endured and pain,
Till now not known, but, known, as soon contemned;
Since now we find this our empyreal form
Incapable of mortal injury,
Imperishable, and, though pierced with wound,
Soon closing, and by native vigour healed.
Of evil then so small as easy think
The remedy; perhaps more valid arms,
Weapons more violent, when next we meet,
May serve to better us, and worse our foes,
Or equal what between us made the odds,
In nature none:  If other hidden cause
Left them superiour, while we can preserve
Unhurt our minds, and understanding sound,
Due search and consultation will disclose.
He sat; and in the assembly next upstood
Nisroch, of Principalities the prime;
As one he stood escaped from cruel fight,
Sore toiled, his riven arms to havock hewn,
And cloudy in aspect thus answering spake.
Deliverer from new Lords, leader to free
Enjoyment of our right as Gods; yet hard
For Gods, and too unequal work we find,
Against unequal arms to fight in pain,
Against unpained, impassive; from which evil
Ruin must needs ensue; for what avails
Valour or strength, though matchless, quelled with pain
Which all subdues, and makes remiss the hands
Of mightiest?  Sense of pleasure we may well
Spare out of life perhaps, and not repine,
But live content, which is the calmest life:
But pain is perfect misery, the worst
Of evils, and, excessive, overturns
All patience.  He, who therefore can invent
With what more forcible we may offend
Our yet unwounded enemies, or arm
Ourselves with like defence, to me deserves
No less than for deliverance what we owe.
Whereto with look composed Satan replied.
Not uninvented that, which thou aright
Believest so main to our success, I bring.
Which of us who beholds the bright surface
Of this ethereous mould whereon we stand,
This continent of spacious Heaven, adorned
With plant, fruit, flower ambrosial, gems, and gold;
Whose eye so superficially surveys
These things, as not to mind from whence they grow
Deep under ground, materials dark and crude,
Of spiritous and fiery spume, till touched
With Heaven's ray, and tempered, they shoot forth
So beauteous, opening to the ambient light?
These in their dark nativity the deep
Shall yield us, pregnant with infernal flame;
Which, into hollow engines, long and round,
Thick rammed, at the other bore with touch of fire
Dilated and infuriate, shall send forth
From far, with thundering noise, among our foes
Such implements of mischief, as shall dash
To pieces, and o'erwhelm whatever stands
Adverse, that they shall fear we have disarmed
The Thunderer of his only dreaded bolt.
Nor long shall be our labour; yet ere dawn,
Effect shall end our wish.  Mean while revive;
Abandon fear; to strength and counsel joined
Think nothing hard, much less to be despaired.
He ended, and his words their drooping cheer
Enlightened, and their languished hope revived.
The invention all admired, and each, how he
To be the inventer missed; so easy it seemed
Once found, which yet unfound most would have thought
Impossible:  Yet, haply, of thy race
In future days, if malice should abound,
Some one intent on mischief, or inspired
With devilish machination, might devise
Like instrument to plague the sons of men
For sin, on war and mutual slaughter bent.
Forthwith from council to the work they flew;
None arguing stood; innumerable hands
Were ready; in a moment up they turned
Wide the celestial soil, and saw beneath
The originals of nature in their crude
Conception; sulphurous and nitrous foam
They found, they mingled, and, with subtle art,
Concocted and adusted they reduced
To blackest grain, and into store conveyed:
Part hidden veins digged up (nor hath this earth
Entrails unlike) of mineral and stone,
Whereof to found their engines and their balls
Of missive ruin; part incentive reed
Provide, pernicious with one touch to fire.
So all ere day-spring, under conscious night,
Secret they finished, and in order set,
With silent circumspection, unespied.
Now when fair morn orient in Heaven appeared,
Up rose the victor-Angels, and to arms
The matin trumpet sung:  In arms they stood
Of golden panoply, refulgent host,
Soon banded; others from the dawning hills
Look round, and scouts each coast light-armed scour,
Each quarter to descry the distant foe,
Where lodged, or whither fled, or if for fight,
In motion or in halt:  Him soon they met
Under spread ensigns moving nigh, in slow
But firm battalion; back with speediest sail
Zophiel, of Cherubim the swiftest wing,
Came flying, and in mid air aloud thus cried.
Arm, Warriours, arm for fight; the foe at hand,
Whom fled we thought, will save us long pursuit
This day; fear not his flight;so thick a cloud
He comes, and settled in his face I see
Sad resolution, and secure:  Let each
His adamantine coat gird well, and each
Fit well his helm, gripe fast his orbed shield,
Borne even or high; for this day will pour down,
If I conjecture aught, no drizzling shower,
But rattling storm of arrows barbed with fire.
So warned he them, aware themselves, and soon
In order, quit of all impediment;
Instant without disturb they took alarm,
And onward moved embattled:  When behold!
Not distant far with heavy pace the foe
Approaching gross and huge, in hollow cube
Training his devilish enginery, impaled
On every side with shadowing squadrons deep,
To hide the fraud.  At interview both stood
A while; but suddenly at head appeared
Satan, and thus was heard commanding loud.
Vanguard, to right and left the front unfold;
That all may see who hate us, how we seek
Peace and composure, and with open breast
Stand ready to receive them, if they like
Our overture; and turn not back perverse:
But that I doubt; however witness, Heaven!
Heaven, witness thou anon! while we discharge
Freely our part: ye, who appointed stand
Do as you have in charge, and briefly touch
What we propound, and loud that all may hear!
So scoffing in ambiguous words, he scarce
Had ended; when to right and left the front
Divided, and to either flank retired:
Which to our eyes discovered, new and strange,
A triple mounted row of pillars laid
On wheels (for like to pillars most they seemed,
Or hollowed bodies made of oak or fir,
With branches lopt, in wood or mountain felled,)
Brass, iron, stony mould, had not their mouths
With hideous orifice gaped on us wide,
Portending hollow truce:  At each behind
A Seraph stood, and in his hand a reed
Stood waving tipt with fire; while we, suspense,
Collected stood within our thoughts amused,
Not long; for sudden all at once their reeds
Put forth, and to a narrow vent applied
With nicest touch.  Immediate in a flame,
But soon obscured with smoke, all Heaven appeared,
From those deep-throated engines belched, whose roar
Embowelled with outrageous noise the air,
And all her entrails tore, disgorging foul
Their devilish glut, chained thunderbolts and hail
Of iron globes; which, on the victor host
Levelled, with such impetuous fury smote,
That, whom they hit, none on their feet might stand,
Though standing else as rocks, but down they fell
By thousands, Angel on Arch-Angel rolled;
The sooner for their arms; unarmed, they might
Have easily, as Spirits, evaded swift
By quick contraction or remove; but now
Foul dissipation followed, and forced rout;
Nor served it to relax their serried files.
What should they do? if on they rushed, repulse
Repeated, and indecent overthrow
Doubled, would render them yet more despised,
And to their foes a laughter; for in view
Stood ranked of Seraphim another row,
In posture to displode their second tire
Of thunder:  Back defeated to return
They worse abhorred.  Satan beheld their plight,
And to his mates thus in derision called.
O Friends! why come not on these victors proud
Ere while they fierce were coming; and when we,
To entertain them fair with open front
And breast, (what could we more?) propounded terms
Of composition, straight they changed their minds,
Flew off, and into strange vagaries fell,
As they would dance; yet for a dance they seemed
Somewhat extravagant and wild; perhaps
For joy of offered peace:  But I suppose,
If our proposals once again were heard,
We should compel them to a quick result.
To whom thus Belial, in like gamesome mood.
Leader! the terms we sent were terms of weight,
Of hard contents, and full of force urged home;
Such as we might perceive amused them all,
And stumbled many:  Who receives them right,
Had need from head to foot well understand;
Not understood, this gift they have besides,
They show us when our foes walk not upright.
So they among themselves in pleasant vein
Stood scoffing, hightened in their thoughts beyond
All doubt of victory:  Eternal Might
To match with their inventions they presumed
So easy, and of his thunder made a scorn,
And all his host derided, while they stood
A while in trouble:  But they stood not long;
Rage prompted them at length, and found them arms
Against such hellish mischief fit to oppose.
Forthwith (behold the excellence, the power,
Which God hath in his mighty Angels placed!)
Their arms away they threw, and to the hills
(For Earth hath this variety from Heaven
Of pleasure situate in hill and dale,)
Light as the lightning glimpse they ran, they flew;
From their foundations loosening to and fro,
They plucked the seated hills, with all their load,
Rocks, waters, woods, and by the shaggy tops
Up-lifting bore them in their hands:  Amaze,
Be sure, and terrour, seized the rebel host,
When coming towards them so dread they saw
The bottom of the mountains upward turned;
Till on those cursed engines' triple-row
They saw them whelmed, and all their confidence
Under the weight of mountains buried deep;
Themselves invaded next, and on their heads
Main promontories flung, which in the air
Came shadowing, and oppressed whole legions armed;
Their armour helped their harm, crushed in and bruised
Into their substance pent, which wrought them pain
Implacable, and many a dolorous groan;
Long struggling underneath, ere they could wind
Out of such prison, though Spirits of purest light,
Purest at first, now gross by sinning grown.
The rest, in imitation, to like arms
Betook them, and the neighbouring hills uptore:
So hills amid the air encountered hills,
Hurled to and fro with jaculation dire;
That under ground they fought in dismal shade;
Infernal noise! war seemed a civil game
To this uproar; horrid confusion heaped
Upon confusion rose:  And now all Heaven
Had gone to wrack, with ruin overspread;
Had not the Almighty Father, where he sits
Shrined in his sanctuary of Heaven secure,
Consulting on the sum of things, foreseen
This tumult, and permitted all, advised:
That his great purpose he might so fulfil,
To honour his anointed Son avenged
Upon his enemies, and to declare
All power on him transferred:  Whence to his Son,
The Assessour of his throne, he thus began.
Effulgence of my glory, Son beloved,
Son, in whose face invisible is beheld
Visibly, what by Deity I am;
And in whose hand what by decree I do,
Second Omnipotence! two days are past,
Two days, as we compute the days of Heaven,
Since Michael and his Powers went forth to tame
These disobedient:  Sore hath been their fight,
As likeliest was, when two such foes met armed;
For to themselves I left them; and thou knowest,
Equal in their creation they were formed,
Save what sin hath impaired; which yet hath wrought
Insensibly, for I suspend their doom;
Whence in perpetual fight they needs must last
Endless, and no solution will be found:
War wearied hath performed what war can do,
And to disordered rage let loose the reins
With mountains, as with weapons, armed; which makes
Wild work in Heaven, and dangerous to the main.
Two days are therefore past, the third is thine;
For thee I have ordained it; and thus far
Have suffered, that the glory may be thine
Of ending this great war, since none but Thou
Can end it.  Into thee such virtue and grace
Immense I have transfused, that all may know
In Heaven and Hell thy power above compare;
And, this perverse commotion governed thus,
To manifest thee worthiest to be Heir
Of all things; to be Heir, and to be King
By sacred unction, thy deserved right.
Go then, Thou Mightiest, in thy Father's might;
Ascend my chariot, guide the rapid wheels
That shake Heaven's basis, bring forth all my war,
My bow and thunder, my almighty arms
Gird on, and sword upon thy puissant thigh;
Pursue these sons of darkness, drive them out
From all Heaven's bounds into the utter deep:
There let them learn, as likes them, to despise
God, and Messiah his anointed King.
He said, and on his Son with rays direct
Shone full; he all his Father full expressed
Ineffably into his face received;
And thus the Filial Godhead answering spake.
O Father, O Supreme of heavenly Thrones,
First, Highest, Holiest, Best; thou always seek'st
To glorify thy Son, I always thee,
As is most just:  This I my glory account,
My exaltation, and my whole delight,
That thou, in me well pleased, declarest thy will
Fulfilled, which to fulfil is all my bliss.
Scepter and power, thy giving, I assume,
And gladlier shall resign, when in the end
Thou shalt be all in all, and I in thee
For ever; and in me all whom thou lovest:
But whom thou hatest, I hate, and can put on
Thy terrours, as I put thy mildness on,
Image of thee in all things; and shall soon,
Armed with thy might, rid Heaven of these rebelled;
To their prepared ill mansion driven down,
To chains of darkness, and the undying worm;
That from thy just obedience could revolt,
Whom to obey is happiness entire.
Then shall thy Saints unmixed, and from the impure
Far separate, circling thy holy mount,
Unfeigned Halleluiahs to thee sing,
Hymns of high praise, and I among them Chief.
So said, he, o'er his scepter bowing, rose
From the right hand of Glory where he sat;
And the third sacred morn began to shine,
Dawning through Heaven.  Forth rushed with whirlwind sound
The chariot of Paternal Deity,
Flashing thick flames, wheel within wheel undrawn,
Itself instinct with Spirit, but convoyed
By four Cherubick shapes; four faces each
Had wonderous; as with stars, their bodies all
And wings were set with eyes; with eyes the wheels
Of beryl, and careering fires between;
Over their heads a crystal firmament,
Whereon a sapphire throne, inlaid with pure
Amber, and colours of the showery arch.
He, in celestial panoply all armed
Of radiant Urim, work divinely wrought,
Ascended; at his right hand Victory
Sat eagle-winged; beside him hung his bow
And quiver with three-bolted thunder stored;
And from about him fierce effusion rolled
Of smoke, and bickering flame, and sparkles dire:
Attended with ten thousand thousand Saints,
He onward came; far off his coming shone;
And twenty thousand (I their number heard)
Chariots of God, half on each hand, were seen;
He on the wings of Cherub rode sublime
On the crystalline sky, in sapphire throned,
Illustrious far and wide; but by his own
First seen:  Them unexpected joy surprised,
When the great ensign of Messiah blazed
Aloft by Angels borne, his sign in Heaven;
Under whose conduct Michael soon reduced
His army, circumfused on either wing,
Under their Head imbodied all in one.
Before him Power Divine his way prepared;
At his command the uprooted hills retired
Each to his place; they heard his voice, and went
Obsequious; Heaven his wonted face renewed,
And with fresh flowerets hill and valley smiled.
This saw his hapless foes, but stood obdured,
And to rebellious fight rallied their Powers,
Insensate, hope conceiving from despair.
In heavenly Spirits could such perverseness dwell?
But to convince the proud what signs avail,
Or wonders move the obdurate to relent?
They, hardened more by what might most reclaim,
Grieving to see his glory, at the sight
Took envy; and, aspiring to his highth,
Stood re-embattled fierce, by force or fraud
Weening to prosper, and at length prevail
Against God and Messiah, or to fall
In universal ruin last; and now
To final battle drew, disdaining flight,
Or faint retreat; when the great Son of God
To all his host on either hand thus spake.
Stand still in bright array, ye Saints; here stand,
Ye Angels armed; this day from battle rest:
Faithful hath been your warfare, and of God
Accepted, fearless in his righteous cause;
And as ye have received, so have ye done,
Invincibly:  But of this cursed crew
The punishment to other hand belongs;
Vengeance is his, or whose he sole appoints:
Number to this day's work is not ordained,
Nor multitude; stand only, and behold
God's indignation on these godless poured
By me; not you, but me, they have despised,
Yet envied; against me is all their rage,
Because the Father, to whom in Heaven s'preme
Kingdom, and power, and glory appertains,
Hath honoured me, according to his will.
Therefore to me their doom he hath assigned;
That they may have their wish, to try with me
In battle which the stronger proves; they all,
Or I alone against them; since by strength
They measure all, of other excellence
Not emulous, nor care who them excels;
Nor other strife with them do I vouchsafe.
So spake the Son, and into terrour changed
His countenance too severe to be beheld,
And full of wrath bent on his enemies.
At once the Four spread out their starry wings
With dreadful shade contiguous, and the orbs
Of his fierce chariot rolled, as with the sound
Of torrent floods, or of a numerous host.
He on his impious foes right onward drove,
Gloomy as night; under his burning wheels
The stedfast empyrean shook throughout,
All but the throne itself of God.  Full soon
Among them he arrived; in his right hand
Grasping ten thousand thunders, which he sent
Before him, such as in their souls infixed
Plagues:  They, astonished, all resistance lost,
All courage; down their idle weapons dropt:
O'er shields, and helms, and helmed heads he rode
Of Thrones and mighty Seraphim prostrate,
That wished the mountains now might be again
Thrown on them, as a shelter from his ire.
Nor less on either side tempestuous fell
His arrows, from the fourfold-visaged Four
Distinct with eyes, and from the living wheels
Distinct alike with multitude of eyes;
One Spirit in them ruled; and every eye
Glared lightning, and shot forth pernicious fire
Among the accursed, that withered all their strength,
And of their wonted vigour left them drained,
Exhausted, spiritless, afflicted, fallen.
Yet half his strength he put not forth, but checked
His thunder in mid volley; for he meant
Not to destroy, but root them out of Heaven:
The overthrown he raised, and as a herd
Of goats or timorous flock together thronged
Drove them before him thunder-struck, pursued
With terrours, and with furies, to the bounds
And crystal wall of Heaven; which, opening wide,
Rolled inward, and a spacious gap disclosed
Into the wasteful deep:  The monstrous sight
Struck them with horrour backward, but far worse
Urged them behind:  Headlong themselves they threw
Down from the verge of Heaven; eternal wrath
Burnt after them to the bottomless pit.
Hell heard the unsufferable noise, Hell saw
Heaven ruining from Heaven, and would have fled
Affrighted; but strict Fate had cast too deep
Her dark foundations, and too fast had bound.
Nine days they fell:  Confounded Chaos roared,
And felt tenfold confusion in their fall
Through his wild anarchy, so huge a rout
Incumbered him with ruin:  Hell at last
Yawning received them whole, and on them closed;
Hell, their fit habitation, fraught with fire
Unquenchable, the house of woe and pain.
Disburdened Heaven rejoiced, and soon repaired
Her mural breach, returning whence it rolled.
Sole victor, from the expulsion of his foes,
Messiah his triumphal chariot turned:
To meet him all his Saints, who silent stood
Eye-witnesses of his almighty acts,
With jubilee advanced; and, as they went,
Shaded with branching palm, each Order bright,
Sung triumph, and him sung victorious King,
Son, Heir, and Lord, to him dominion given,
Worthiest to reign:  He, celebrated, rode
Triumphant through mid Heaven, into the courts
And temple of his Mighty Father throned
On high; who into glory him received,
Where now he sits at the right hand of bliss.
Thus, measuring things in Heaven by things on Earth,
At thy request, and that thou mayest beware
By what is past, to thee I have revealed
What might have else to human race been hid;
The discord which befel, and war in Heaven
Among the angelick Powers, and the deep fall
Of those too high aspiring, who rebelled
With Satan; he who envies now thy state,
Who now is plotting how he may seduce
Thee also from obedience, that, with him
Bereaved of happiness, thou mayest partake
His punishment, eternal misery;
Which would be all his solace and revenge,
As a despite done against the Most High,
Thee once to gain companion of his woe.
But listen not to his temptations, warn
Thy weaker; let it profit thee to have heard,
By terrible example, the reward
Of disobedience; firm they might have stood,
Yet fell; remember, and fear to transgress.



Book VII


Descend from Heaven, Urania, by that name
If rightly thou art called, whose voice divine
Following, above the Olympian hill I soar,
Above the flight of Pegasean wing!
The meaning, not the name, I call: for thou
Nor of the Muses nine, nor on the top
Of old Olympus dwellest; but, heavenly-born,
Before the hills appeared, or fountain flowed,
Thou with eternal Wisdom didst converse,
Wisdom thy sister, and with her didst play
In presence of the Almighty Father, pleased
With thy celestial song.  Up led by thee
Into the Heaven of Heavens I have presumed,
An earthly guest, and drawn empyreal air,
Thy tempering: with like safety guided down
Return me to my native element:
Lest from this flying steed unreined, (as once
Bellerophon, though from a lower clime,)
Dismounted, on the Aleian field I fall,
Erroneous there to wander, and forlorn.
Half yet remains unsung, but narrower bound
Within the visible diurnal sphere;
Standing on earth, not rapt above the pole,
More safe I sing with mortal voice, unchanged
To hoarse or mute, though fallen on evil days,
On evil days though fallen, and evil tongues;
In darkness, and with dangers compassed round,
And solitude; yet not alone, while thou
Visitest my slumbers nightly, or when morn
Purples the east: still govern thou my song,
Urania, and fit audience find, though few.
But drive far off the barbarous dissonance
Of Bacchus and his revellers, the race
Of that wild rout that tore the Thracian bard
In Rhodope, where woods and rocks had ears
To rapture, till the savage clamour drowned
Both harp and voice; nor could the Muse defend
Her son.  So fail not thou, who thee implores:
For thou art heavenly, she an empty dream.
Say, Goddess, what ensued when Raphael,
The affable Arch-Angel, had forewarned
Adam, by dire example, to beware
Apostasy, by what befel in Heaven
To those apostates; lest the like befall
In Paradise to Adam or his race,
Charged not to touch the interdicted tree,
If they transgress, and slight that sole command,
So easily obeyed amid the choice
Of all tastes else to please their appetite,
Though wandering.  He, with his consorted Eve,
The story heard attentive, and was filled
With admiration and deep muse, to hear
Of things so high and strange; things, to their thought
So unimaginable, as hate in Heaven,
And war so near the peace of God in bliss,
With such confusion: but the evil, soon
Driven back, redounded as a flood on those
From whom it sprung; impossible to mix
With blessedness.  Whence Adam soon repealed
The doubts that in his heart arose: and now
Led on, yet sinless, with desire to know
What nearer might concern him, how this world
Of Heaven and Earth conspicuous first began;
When, and whereof created; for what cause;
What within Eden, or without, was done
Before his memory; as one whose drouth
Yet scarce allayed still eyes the current stream,
Whose liquid murmur heard new thirst excites,
Proceeded thus to ask his heavenly guest.
Great things, and full of wonder in our ears,
Far differing from this world, thou hast revealed,
Divine interpreter! by favour sent
Down from the empyrean, to forewarn
Us timely of what might else have been our loss,
Unknown, which human knowledge could not reach;
For which to the infinitely Good we owe
Immortal thanks, and his admonishment
Receive, with solemn purpose to observe
Immutably his sovran will, the end
Of what we are.  But since thou hast vouchsafed
Gently, for our instruction, to impart
Things above earthly thought, which yet concerned
Our knowing, as to highest wisdom seemed,
Deign to descend now lower, and relate
What may no less perhaps avail us known,
How first began this Heaven which we behold
Distant so high, with moving fires adorned
Innumerable; and this which yields or fills
All space, the ambient air wide interfused
Embracing round this floried Earth; what cause
Moved the Creator, in his holy rest
Through all eternity, so late to build
In Chaos; and the work begun, how soon
Absolved; if unforbid thou mayest unfold
What we, not to explore the secrets ask
Of his eternal empire, but the more
To magnify his works, the more we know.
And the great light of day yet wants to run
Much of his race though steep; suspense in Heaven,
Held by thy voice, thy potent voice, he hears,
And longer will delay to hear thee tell
His generation, and the rising birth
Of Nature from the unapparent Deep:
Or if the star of evening and the moon
Haste to thy audience, Night with her will bring,
Silence; and Sleep, listening to thee, will watch;
Or we can bid his absence, till thy song
End, and dismiss thee ere the morning shine.
Thus Adam his illustrious guest besought:
And thus the Godlike Angel answered mild.
This also thy request, with caution asked,
Obtain; though to recount almighty works
What words or tongue of Seraph can suffice,
Or heart of man suffice to comprehend?
Yet what thou canst attain, which best may serve
To glorify the Maker, and infer
Thee also happier, shall not be withheld
Thy hearing; such commission from above
I have received, to answer thy desire
Of knowledge within bounds; beyond, abstain
To ask; nor let thine own inventions hope
Things not revealed, which the invisible King,
Only Omniscient, hath suppressed in night;
To none communicable in Earth or Heaven:
Enough is left besides to search and know.
But knowledge is as food, and needs no less
Her temperance over appetite, to know
In measure what the mind may well contain;
Oppresses else with surfeit, and soon turns
Wisdom to folly, as nourishment to wind.
Know then, that, after Lucifer from Heaven
(So call him, brighter once amidst the host
Of Angels, than that star the stars among,)
Fell with his flaming legions through the deep
Into his place, and the great Son returned
Victorious with his Saints, the Omnipotent
Eternal Father from his throne beheld
Their multitude, and to his Son thus spake.
At least our envious Foe hath failed, who thought
All like himself rebellious, by whose aid
This inaccessible high strength, the seat
Of Deity supreme, us dispossessed,
He trusted to have seised, and into fraud
Drew many, whom their place knows here no more:
Yet far the greater part have kept, I see,
Their station; Heaven, yet populous, retains
Number sufficient to possess her realms
Though wide, and this high temple to frequent
With ministeries due, and solemn rites:
But, lest his heart exalt him in the harm
Already done, to have dispeopled Heaven,
My damage fondly deemed, I can repair
That detriment, if such it be to lose
Self-lost; and in a moment will create
Another world, out of one man a race
Of men innumerable, there to dwell,
Not here; till, by degrees of merit raised,
They open to themselves at length the way
Up hither, under long obedience tried;
And Earth be changed to Heaven, and Heaven to Earth,
One kingdom, joy and union without end.
Mean while inhabit lax, ye Powers of Heaven;
And thou my Word, begotten Son, by thee
This I perform; speak thou, and be it done!
My overshadowing Spirit and Might with thee
I send along; ride forth, and bid the Deep
Within appointed bounds be Heaven and Earth;
Boundless the Deep, because I Am who fill
Infinitude, nor vacuous the space.
Though I, uncircumscribed myself, retire,
And put not forth my goodness, which is free
To act or not, Necessity and Chance
Approach not me, and what I will is Fate.
So spake the Almighty, and to what he spake
His Word, the Filial Godhead, gave effect.
Immediate are the acts of God, more swift
Than time or motion, but to human ears
Cannot without process of speech be told,
So told as earthly notion can receive.
Great triumph and rejoicing was in Heaven,
When such was heard declared the Almighty's will;
Glory they sung to the Most High, good will
To future men, and in their dwellings peace;
Glory to Him, whose just avenging ire
Had driven out the ungodly from his sight
And the habitations of the just; to Him
Glory and praise, whose wisdom had ordained
Good out of evil to create; instead
Of Spirits malign, a better race to bring
Into their vacant room, and thence diffuse
His good to worlds and ages infinite.
So sang the Hierarchies:  Mean while the Son
On his great expedition now appeared,
Girt with Omnipotence, with radiance crowned
Of Majesty Divine; sapience and love
Immense, and all his Father in him shone.
About his chariot numberless were poured
Cherub, and Seraph, Potentates, and Thrones,
And Virtues, winged Spirits, and chariots winged
From the armoury of God; where stand of old
Myriads, between two brazen mountains lodged
Against a solemn day, harnessed at hand,
Celestial equipage; and now came forth
Spontaneous, for within them Spirit lived,
Attendant on their Lord:  Heaven opened wide
Her ever-during gates, harmonious sound
On golden hinges moving, to let forth
The King of Glory, in his powerful Word
And Spirit, coming to create new worlds.
On heavenly ground they stood; and from the shore
They viewed the vast immeasurable abyss
Outrageous as a sea, dark, wasteful, wild,
Up from the bottom turned by furious winds
And surging waves, as mountains, to assault
Heaven's highth, and with the center mix the pole.
Silence, ye troubled Waves, and thou Deep, peace,
Said then the Omnifick Word; your discord end!
Nor staid; but, on the wings of Cherubim
Uplifted, in paternal glory rode
Far into Chaos, and the world unborn;
For Chaos heard his voice:  Him all his train
Followed in bright procession, to behold
Creation, and the wonders of his might.
Then staid the fervid wheels, and in his hand
He took the golden compasses, prepared
In God's eternal store, to circumscribe
This universe, and all created things:
One foot he centered, and the other turned
Round through the vast profundity obscure;
And said, Thus far extend, thus far thy bounds,
This be thy just circumference, O World!
Thus God the Heaven created, thus the Earth,
Matter unformed and void:  Darkness profound
Covered the abyss: but on the watery calm
His brooding wings the Spirit of God outspread,
And vital virtue infused, and vital warmth
Throughout the fluid mass; but downward purged
The black tartareous cold infernal dregs,
Adverse to life: then founded, then conglobed
Like things to like; the rest to several place
Disparted, and between spun out the air;
And Earth self-balanced on her center hung.
Let there be light, said God; and forthwith Light
Ethereal, first of things, quintessence pure,
Sprung from the deep; and from her native east
To journey through the aery gloom began,
Sphered in a radiant cloud, for yet the sun
Was not; she in a cloudy tabernacle
Sojourned the while.  God saw the light was good;
And light from darkness by the hemisphere
Divided: light the Day, and darkness Night,
He named.  Thus was the first day even and morn:
Nor past uncelebrated, nor unsung
By the celestial quires, when orient light
Exhaling first from darkness they beheld;
Birth-day of Heaven and Earth; with joy and shout
The hollow universal orb they filled,
And touched their golden harps, and hymning praised
God and his works; Creator him they sung,
Both when first evening was, and when first morn.
Again, God said,  Let there be firmament
Amid the waters, and let it divide
The waters from the waters; and God made
The firmament, expanse of liquid, pure,
Transparent, elemental air, diffused
In circuit to the uttermost convex
Of this great round; partition firm and sure,
The waters underneath from those above
Dividing: for as earth, so he the world
Built on circumfluous waters calm, in wide
Crystalline ocean, and the loud misrule
Of Chaos far removed; lest fierce extremes
Contiguous might distemper the whole frame:
And Heaven he named the Firmament:  So even
And morning chorus sung the second day.
The Earth was formed, but in the womb as yet
Of waters, embryon immature involved,
Appeared not: over all the face of Earth
Main ocean flowed, not idle; but, with warm
Prolifick humour softening all her globe,
Fermented the great mother to conceive,
Satiate with genial moisture; when God said,
Be gathered now ye waters under Heaven
Into one place, and let dry land appear.
Immediately the mountains huge appear
Emergent, and their broad bare backs upheave
Into the clouds; their tops ascend the sky:
So high as heaved the tumid hills, so low
Down sunk a hollow bottom broad and deep,
Capacious bed of waters:  Thither they
Hasted with glad precipitance, uprolled,
As drops on dust conglobing from the dry:
Part rise in crystal wall, or ridge direct,
For haste; such flight the great command impressed
On the swift floods:  As armies at the call
Of trumpet (for of armies thou hast heard)
Troop to their standard; so the watery throng,
Wave rolling after wave, where way they found,
If steep, with torrent rapture, if through plain,
Soft-ebbing; nor withstood them rock or hill;
But they, or under ground, or circuit wide
With serpent errour wandering, found their way,
And on the washy oose deep channels wore;
Easy, ere God had bid the ground be dry,
All but within those banks, where rivers now
Stream, and perpetual draw their humid train.
The dry land, Earth; and the great receptacle
Of congregated waters, he called Seas:
And saw that it was good; and said, Let the Earth
Put forth the verdant grass, herb yielding seed,
And fruit-tree yielding fruit after her kind,
Whose seed is in herself upon the Earth.
He scarce had said, when the bare Earth, till then
Desart and bare, unsightly, unadorned,
Brought forth the tender grass, whose verdure clad
Her universal face with pleasant green;
Then herbs of every leaf, that sudden flowered
Opening their various colours, and made gay
Her bosom, smelling sweet: and, these scarce blown,
Forth flourished thick the clustering vine, forth crept
The swelling gourd, up stood the corny reed
Embattled in her field, and the humble shrub,
And bush with frizzled hair implicit:  Last
Rose, as in dance, the stately trees, and spread
Their branches hung with copious fruit, or gemmed
Their blossoms:  With high woods the hills were crowned;
With tufts the valleys, and each fountain side;
With borders long the rivers: that Earth now
Seemed like to Heaven, a seat where Gods might dwell,
Or wander with delight, and love to haunt
Her sacred shades: though God had yet not rained
Upon the Earth, and man to till the ground
None was; but from the Earth a dewy mist
Went up, and watered all the ground, and each
Plant of the field; which, ere it was in the Earth,
God made, and every herb, before it grew
On the green stem:  God saw that it was good:
So even and morn recorded the third day.
Again the Almighty spake, Let there be lights
High in the expanse of Heaven, to divide
The day from night; and let them be for signs,
For seasons, and for days, and circling years;
And let them be for lights, as I ordain
Their office in the firmament of Heaven,
To give light on the Earth; and it was so.
And God made two great lights, great for their use
To Man, the greater to have rule by day,
The less by night, altern; and made the stars,
And set them in the firmament of Heaven
To illuminate the Earth, and rule the day
In their vicissitude, and rule the night,
And light from darkness to divide.  God saw,
Surveying his great work, that it was good:
For of celestial bodies first the sun
A mighty sphere he framed, unlightsome first,
Though of ethereal mould: then formed the moon
Globose, and every magnitude of stars,
And sowed with stars the Heaven, thick as a field:
Of light by far the greater part he took,
Transplanted from her cloudy shrine, and placed
In the sun's orb, made porous to receive
And drink the liquid light; firm to retain
Her gathered beams, great palace now of light.
Hither, as to their fountain, other stars
Repairing, in their golden urns draw light,
And hence the morning-planet gilds her horns;
By tincture or reflection they augment
Their small peculiar, though from human sight
So far remote, with diminution seen,
First in his east the glorious lamp was seen,
Regent of day, and all the horizon round
Invested with bright rays, jocund to run
His longitude through Heaven's high road; the gray
Dawn, and the Pleiades, before him danced,
Shedding sweet influence:  Less bright the moon,
But opposite in levelled west was set,
His mirrour, with full face borrowing her light
From him; for other light she needed none
In that aspect, and still that distance keeps
Till night; then in the east her turn she shines,
Revolved on Heaven's great axle, and her reign
With thousand lesser lights dividual holds,
With thousand thousand stars, that then appeared
Spangling the hemisphere:  Then first adorned
With their bright luminaries that set and rose,
Glad evening and glad morn crowned the fourth day.
And God said, Let the waters generate
Reptile with spawn abundant, living soul:
And let fowl fly above the Earth, with wings
Displayed on the open firmament of Heaven.
And God created the great whales, and each
Soul living, each that crept, which plenteously
The waters generated by their kinds;
And every bird of wing after his kind;
And saw that it was good, and blessed them, saying.
Be fruitful, multiply, and in the seas,
And lakes, and running streams, the waters fill;
And let the fowl be multiplied, on the Earth.
Forthwith the sounds and seas, each creek and bay,
With fry innumerable swarm, and shoals
Of fish that with their fins, and shining scales,
Glide under the green wave, in sculls that oft
Bank the mid sea: part single, or with mate,
Graze the sea-weed their pasture, and through groves
Of coral stray; or, sporting with quick glance,
Show to the sun their waved coats dropt with gold;
Or, in their pearly shells at ease, attend
Moist nutriment; or under rocks their food
In jointed armour watch: on smooth the seal
And bended dolphins play: part huge of bulk
Wallowing unwieldy, enormous in their gait,
Tempest the ocean: there leviathan,
Hugest of living creatures, on the deep
Stretched like a promontory sleeps or swims,
And seems a moving land; and at his gills
Draws in, and at his trunk spouts out, a sea.
Mean while the tepid caves, and fens, and shores,
Their brood as numerous hatch, from the egg that soon
Bursting with kindly rupture forth disclosed
Their callow young; but feathered soon and fledge
They summed their pens; and, soaring the air sublime,
With clang despised the ground, under a cloud
In prospect; there the eagle and the stork
On cliffs and cedar tops their eyries build:
Part loosely wing the region, part more wise
In common, ranged in figure, wedge their way,
Intelligent of seasons, and set forth
Their aery caravan, high over seas
Flying, and over lands, with mutual wing
Easing their flight; so steers the prudent crane
Her annual voyage, borne on winds; the air
Floats as they pass, fanned with unnumbered plumes:
From branch to branch the smaller birds with song
Solaced the woods, and spread their painted wings
Till even; nor then the solemn nightingale
Ceased warbling, but all night tun'd her soft lays:
Others, on silver lakes and rivers, bathed
Their downy breast; the swan with arched neck,
Between her white wings mantling proudly, rows
Her state with oary feet; yet oft they quit
The dank, and, rising on stiff pennons, tower
The mid aereal sky:  Others on ground
Walked firm; the crested cock whose clarion sounds
The silent hours, and the other whose gay train
Adorns him, coloured with the florid hue
Of rainbows and starry eyes.  The waters thus
With fish replenished, and the air with fowl,
Evening and morn solemnized the fifth day.
The sixth, and of creation last, arose
With evening harps and matin; when God said,
Let the Earth bring forth soul living in her kind,
Cattle, and creeping things, and beast of the Earth,
Each in their kind.  The Earth obeyed, and straight
Opening her fertile womb teemed at a birth
Innumerous living creatures, perfect forms,
Limbed and full grown:  Out of the ground up rose,
As from his lair, the wild beast where he wons
In forest wild, in thicket, brake, or den;
Among the trees in pairs they rose, they walked:
The cattle in the fields and meadows green:
Those rare and solitary, these in flocks
Pasturing at once, and in broad herds upsprung.
The grassy clods now calved; now half appeared
The tawny lion, pawing to get free
His hinder parts, then springs as broke from bonds,
And rampant shakes his brinded mane; the ounce,
The libbard, and the tiger, as the mole
Rising, the crumbled earth above them threw
In hillocks:  The swift stag from under ground
Bore up his branching head:  Scarce from his mould
Behemoth biggest born of earth upheaved
His vastness:  Fleeced the flocks and bleating rose,
As plants:  Ambiguous between sea and land
The river-horse, and scaly crocodile.
At once came forth whatever creeps the ground,
Insect or worm: those waved their limber fans
For wings, and smallest lineaments exact
In all the liveries decked of summer's pride
With spots of gold and purple, azure and green:
These, as a line, their long dimension drew,
Streaking the ground with sinuous trace; not all
Minims of nature; some of serpent-kind,
Wonderous in length and corpulence, involved
Their snaky folds, and added wings.  First crept
The parsimonious emmet, provident
Of future; in small room large heart enclosed;
Pattern of just equality perhaps
Hereafter, joined in her popular tribes
Of commonalty:  Swarming next appeared
The female bee, that feeds her husband drone
Deliciously, and builds her waxen cells
With honey stored:  The rest are numberless,
And thou their natures knowest, and gavest them names,
Needless to thee repeated; nor unknown
The serpent, subtlest beast of all the field,
Of huge extent sometimes, with brazen eyes
And hairy mane terrifick, though to thee
Not noxious, but obedient at thy call.
Now Heaven in all her glory shone, and rolled
Her motions, as the great first Mover's hand
First wheeled their course:  Earth in her rich attire
Consummate lovely smiled; air, water, earth,
By fowl, fish, beast, was flown, was swum, was walked,
Frequent; and of the sixth day yet remained:
There wanted yet the master-work, the end
Of all yet done; a creature, who, not prone
And brute as other creatures, but endued
With sanctity of reason, might erect
His stature, and upright with front serene
Govern the rest, self-knowing; and from thence
Magnanimous to correspond with Heaven,
But grateful to acknowledge whence his good
Descends, thither with heart, and voice, and eyes
Directed in devotion, to adore
And worship God Supreme, who made him chief
Of all his works:  therefore the Omnipotent
Eternal Father (for where is not he
Present?) thus to his Son audibly spake.
Let us make now Man in our image, Man
In our similitude, and let them rule
Over the fish and fowl of sea and air,
Beast of the field, and over all the Earth,
And every creeping thing that creeps the ground.
This said, he formed thee, Adam, thee, O Man,
Dust of the ground, and in thy nostrils breathed
The breath of life; in his own image he
Created thee, in the image of God
Express; and thou becamest a living soul.
Male he created thee; but thy consort
Female, for race; then blessed mankind, and said,
Be fruitful, multiply, and fill the Earth;
Subdue it, and throughout dominion hold
Over fish of the sea, and fowl of the air,
And every living thing that moves on the Earth.
Wherever thus created, for no place
Is yet distinct by name, thence, as thou knowest,
He brought thee into this delicious grove,
This garden, planted with the trees of God,
Delectable both to behold and taste;
And freely all their pleasant fruit for food
Gave thee; all sorts are here that all the Earth yields,
Variety without end; but of the tree,
Which, tasted, works knowledge of good and evil,
Thou mayest not; in the day thou eatest, thou diest;
Death is the penalty imposed; beware,
And govern well thy appetite; lest Sin
Surprise thee, and her black attendant Death.
Here finished he, and all that he had made
Viewed, and behold all was entirely good;
So even and morn accomplished the sixth day:
Yet not till the Creator from his work
Desisting, though unwearied, up returned,
Up to the Heaven of Heavens, his high abode;
Thence to behold this new created world,
The addition of his empire, how it showed
In prospect from his throne, how good, how fair,
Answering his great idea.  Up he rode
Followed with acclamation, and the sound
Symphonious of ten thousand harps, that tuned
Angelick harmonies:  The earth, the air
Resounded, (thou rememberest, for thou heardst,)
The heavens and all the constellations rung,
The planets in their station listening stood,
While the bright pomp ascended jubilant.
Open, ye everlasting gates! they sung,
Open, ye Heavens! your living doors;let in
The great Creator from his work returned
Magnificent, his six days work, a World;
Open, and henceforth oft; for God will deign
To visit oft the dwellings of just men,
Delighted; and with frequent intercourse
Thither will send his winged messengers
On errands of supernal grace.  So sung
The glorious train ascending:  He through Heaven,
That opened wide her blazing portals, led
To God's eternal house direct the way;
A broad and ample road, whose dust is gold
And pavement stars, as stars to thee appear,
Seen in the galaxy, that milky way,
Which nightly, as a circling zone, thou seest
Powdered with stars.  And now on Earth the seventh
Evening arose in Eden, for the sun
Was set, and twilight from the east came on,
Forerunning night; when at the holy mount
Of Heaven's high-seated top, the imperial throne
Of Godhead, fixed for ever firm and sure,
The Filial Power arrived, and sat him down
With his great Father; for he also went
Invisible, yet staid, (such privilege
Hath Omnipresence) and the work ordained,
Author and End of all things; and, from work
Now resting, blessed and hallowed the seventh day,
As resting on that day from all his work,
But not in silence holy kept: the harp
Had work and rested not; the solemn pipe,
And dulcimer, all organs of sweet stop,
All sounds on fret by string or golden wire,
Tempered soft tunings, intermixed with voice
Choral or unison: of incense clouds,
Fuming from golden censers, hid the mount.
Creation and the six days acts they sung:
Great are thy works, Jehovah! infinite
Thy power! what thought can measure thee, or tongue
Relate thee!  Greater now in thy return
Than from the giant Angels:  Thee that day
Thy thunders magnified; but to create
Is greater than created to destroy.
Who can impair thee, Mighty King, or bound
Thy empire!  Easily the proud attempt
Of Spirits apostate, and their counsels vain,
Thou hast repelled; while impiously they thought
Thee to diminish, and from thee withdraw
The number of thy worshippers.  Who seeks
To lessen thee, against his purpose serves
To manifest the more thy might: his evil
Thou usest, and from thence createst more good.
Witness this new-made world, another Heaven
From Heaven-gate not far, founded in view
On the clear hyaline, the glassy sea;
Of amplitude almost immense, with stars
Numerous, and every star perhaps a world
Of destined habitation; but thou knowest
Their seasons: among these the seat of Men,
Earth, with her nether ocean circumfused,
Their pleasant dwelling-place.  Thrice happy Men,
And sons of Men, whom God hath thus advanced!
Created in his image, there to dwell
And worship him; and in reward to rule
Over his works, on earth, in sea, or air,
And multiply a race of worshippers
Holy and just:  Thrice happy, if they know
Their happiness, and persevere upright!
So sung they, and the empyrean rung
With halleluiahs:  Thus was sabbath kept.
And thy request think now fulfilled, that asked
How first this world and face of things began,
And what before thy memory was done
From the beginning; that posterity,
Informed by thee, might know:  If else thou seekest
Aught, not surpassing human measure, say.



Book VIII


The Angel ended, and in Adam's ear
So charming left his voice, that he a while
Thought him still speaking, still stood fixed to hear;
Then, as new waked, thus gratefully replied.
What thanks sufficient, or what recompence
Equal, have I to render thee, divine
Historian, who thus largely hast allayed
The thirst I had of knowledge, and vouchsafed
This friendly condescension to relate
Things, else by me unsearchable; now heard
With wonder, but delight, and, as is due,
With glory attributed to the high
Creator!  Something yet of doubt remains,
Which only thy solution can resolve.
When I behold this goodly frame, this world,
Of Heaven and Earth consisting; and compute
Their magnitudes; this Earth, a spot, a grain,
An atom, with the firmament compared
And all her numbered stars, that seem to roll
Spaces incomprehensible, (for such
Their distance argues, and their swift return
Diurnal,) merely to officiate light
Round this opacous Earth, this punctual spot,
One day and night; in all her vast survey
Useless besides; reasoning I oft admire,
How Nature wise and frugal could commit
Such disproportions, with superfluous hand
So many nobler bodies to create,
Greater so manifold, to this one use,
For aught appears, and on their orbs impose
Such restless revolution day by day
Repeated; while the sedentary Earth,
That better might with far less compass move,
Served by more noble than herself, attains
Her end without least motion, and receives,
As tribute, such a sumless journey brought
Of incorporeal speed, her warmth and light;
Speed, to describe whose swiftness number fails.
So spake our sire, and by his countenance seemed
Entering on studious thoughts abstruse; which Eve
Perceiving, where she sat retired in sight,
With lowliness majestick from her seat,
And grace that won who saw to wish her stay,
Rose, and went forth among her fruits and flowers,
To visit how they prospered, bud and bloom,
Her nursery; they at her coming sprung,
And, touched by her fair tendance, gladlier grew.
Yet went she not, as not with such discourse
Delighted, or not capable her ear
Of what was high: such pleasure she reserved,
Adam relating, she sole auditress;
Her husband the relater she preferred
Before the Angel, and of him to ask
Chose rather; he, she knew, would intermix
Grateful digressions, and solve high dispute
With conjugal caresses: from his lip
Not words alone pleased her.  O! when meet now
Such pairs, in love and mutual honour joined?
With Goddess-like demeanour forth she went,
Not unattended; for on her, as Queen,
A pomp of winning Graces waited still,
And from about her shot darts of desire
Into all eyes, to wish her still in sight.
And Raphael now, to Adam's doubt proposed,
Benevolent and facile thus replied.
To ask or search, I blame thee not; for Heaven
Is as the book of God before thee set,
Wherein to read his wonderous works, and learn
His seasons, hours, or days, or months, or years:
This to attain, whether Heaven move or Earth,
Imports not, if thou reckon right; the rest
From Man or Angel the great Architect
Did wisely to conceal, and not divulge
His secrets to be scanned by them who ought
Rather admire; or, if they list to try
Conjecture, he his fabrick of the Heavens
Hath left to their disputes, perhaps to move
His laughter at their quaint opinions wide
Hereafter; when they come to model Heaven
And calculate the stars, how they will wield
The mighty frame; how build, unbuild, contrive
To save appearances; how gird the sphere
With centrick and eccentrick scribbled o'er,
Cycle and epicycle, orb in orb:
Already by thy reasoning this I guess,
Who art to lead thy offspring, and supposest
That bodies bright and greater should not serve
The less not bright, nor Heaven such journeys run,
Earth sitting still, when she alone receives
The benefit:  Consider first, that great
Or bright infers not excellence: the Earth
Though, in comparison of Heaven, so small,
Nor glistering, may of solid good contain
More plenty than the sun that barren shines;
Whose virtue on itself works no effect,
But in the fruitful Earth; there first received,
His beams, unactive else, their vigour find.
Yet not to Earth are those bright luminaries
Officious; but to thee, Earth's habitant.
And for the Heaven's wide circuit, let it speak
The Maker's high magnificence, who built
So spacious, and his line stretched out so far;
That Man may know he dwells not in his own;
An edifice too large for him to fill,
Lodged in a small partition; and the rest
Ordained for uses to his Lord best known.
The swiftness of those circles attribute,
Though numberless, to his Omnipotence,
That to corporeal substances could add
Speed almost spiritual:  Me thou thinkest not slow,
Who since the morning-hour set out from Heaven
Where God resides, and ere mid-day arrived
In Eden; distance inexpressible
By numbers that have name.  But this I urge,
Admitting motion in the Heavens, to show
Invalid that which thee to doubt it moved;
Not that I so affirm, though so it seem
To thee who hast thy dwelling here on Earth.
God, to remove his ways from human sense,
Placed Heaven from Earth so far, that earthly sight,
If it presume, might err in things too high,
And no advantage gain.  What if the sun
Be center to the world; and other stars,
By his attractive virtue and their own
Incited, dance about him various rounds?
Their wandering course now high, now low, then hid,
Progressive, retrograde, or standing still,
In six thou seest; and what if seventh to these
The planet earth, so stedfast though she seem,
Insensibly three different motions move?
Which else to several spheres thou must ascribe,
Moved contrary with thwart obliquities;
Or save the sun his labour, and that swift
Nocturnal and diurnal rhomb supposed,
Invisible else above all stars, the wheel
Of day and night; which needs not thy belief,
If earth, industrious of herself, fetch day
Travelling east, and with her part averse
From the sun's beam meet night, her other part
Still luminous by his ray.  What if that light,
Sent from her through the wide transpicuous air,
To the terrestrial moon be as a star,
Enlightening her by day, as she by night
This earth? reciprocal, if land be there,
Fields and inhabitants:  Her spots thou seest
As clouds, and clouds may rain, and rain produce
Fruits in her softened soil for some to eat
Allotted there; and other suns perhaps,
With their attendant moons, thou wilt descry,
Communicating male and female light;
Which two great sexes animate the world,
Stored in each orb perhaps with some that live.
For such vast room in Nature unpossessed
By living soul, desart and desolate,
Only to shine, yet scarce to contribute
Each orb a glimpse of light, conveyed so far
Down to this habitable, which returns
Light back to them, is obvious to dispute.
But whether thus these things, or whether not;
But whether the sun, predominant in Heaven,
Rise on the earth; or earth rise on the sun;
He from the east his flaming road begin;
Or she from west her silent course advance,
With inoffensive pace that spinning sleeps
On her soft axle, while she paces even,
And bears thee soft with the smooth hair along;
Sollicit not thy thoughts with matters hid;
Leave them to God above; him serve, and fear!
Of other creatures, as him pleases best,
Wherever placed, let him dispose; joy thou
In what he gives to thee, this Paradise
And thy fair Eve; Heaven is for thee too high
To know what passes there; be lowly wise:
Think only what concerns thee, and thy being;
Dream not of other worlds, what creatures there
Live, in what state, condition, or degree;
Contented that thus far hath been revealed
Not of Earth only, but of highest Heaven.
To whom thus Adam, cleared of doubt, replied.
How fully hast thou satisfied me, pure
Intelligence of Heaven, Angel serene!
And, freed from intricacies, taught to live
The easiest way; nor with perplexing thoughts
To interrupt the sweet of life, from which
God hath bid dwell far off all anxious cares,
And not molest us; unless we ourselves
Seek them with wandering thoughts, and notions vain.
But apt the mind or fancy is to rove
Unchecked, and of her roving is no end;
Till warned, or by experience taught, she learn,
That, not to know at large of things remote
From use, obscure and subtle; but, to know
That which before us lies in daily life,
Is the prime wisdom:  What is more, is fume,
Or emptiness, or fond impertinence:
And renders us, in things that most concern,
Unpractised, unprepared, and still to seek.
Therefore from this high pitch let us descend
A lower flight, and speak of things at hand
Useful; whence, haply, mention may arise
Of something not unseasonable to ask,
By sufferance, and thy wonted favour, deigned.
Thee I have heard relating what was done
Ere my remembrance: now, hear me relate
My story, which perhaps thou hast not heard;
And day is not yet spent; till then thou seest
How subtly to detain thee I devise;
Inviting thee to hear while I relate;
Fond! were it not in hope of thy reply:
For, while I sit with thee, I seem in Heaven;
And sweeter thy discourse is to my ear
Than fruits of palm-tree pleasantest to thirst
And hunger both, from labour, at the hour
Of sweet repast; they satiate, and soon fill,
Though pleasant; but thy words, with grace divine
Imbued, bring to their sweetness no satiety.
To whom thus Raphael answered heavenly meek.
Nor are thy lips ungraceful, Sire of men,
Nor tongue ineloquent; for God on thee
Abundantly his gifts hath also poured
Inward and outward both, his image fair:
Speaking, or mute, all comeliness and grace
Attends thee; and each word, each motion, forms;
Nor less think we in Heaven of thee on Earth
Than of our fellow-servant, and inquire
Gladly into the ways of God with Man:
For God, we see, hath honoured thee, and set
On Man his equal love:  Say therefore on;
For I that day was absent, as befel,
Bound on a voyage uncouth and obscure,
Far on excursion toward the gates of Hell;
Squared in full legion (such command we had)
To see that none thence issued forth a spy,
Or enemy, while God was in his work;
Lest he, incensed at such eruption bold,
Destruction with creation might have mixed.
Not that they durst without his leave attempt;
But us he sends upon his high behests
For state, as Sovran King; and to inure
Our prompt obedience.  Fast we found, fast shut,
The dismal gates, and barricadoed strong;
But long ere our approaching heard within
Noise, other than the sound of dance or song,
Torment, and loud lament, and furious rage.
Glad we returned up to the coasts of light
Ere sabbath-evening: so we had in charge.
But thy relation now; for I attend,
Pleased with thy words no less than thou with mine.
So spake the Godlike Power, and thus our Sire.
For Man to tell how human life began
Is hard; for who himself beginning knew
Desire with thee still longer to converse
Induced me.  As new waked from soundest sleep,
Soft on the flowery herb I found me laid,
In balmy sweat; which with his beams the sun
Soon dried, and on the reeking moisture fed.
Straight toward Heaven my wondering eyes I turned,
And gazed a while the ample sky; till, raised
By quick instinctive motion, up I sprung,
As thitherward endeavouring, and upright
Stood on my feet: about me round I saw
Hill, dale, and shady woods, and sunny plains,
And liquid lapse of murmuring streams; by these,
Creatures that lived and moved, and walked, or flew;
Birds on the branches warbling; all things smiled;
With fragrance and with joy my heart o'erflowed.
Myself I then perused, and limb by limb
Surveyed, and sometimes went, and sometimes ran
With supple joints, as lively vigour led:
But who I was, or where, or from what cause,
Knew not; to speak I tried, and forthwith spake;
My tongue obeyed, and readily could name
Whate'er I saw.  Thou Sun, said I, fair light,
And thou enlightened Earth, so fresh and gay,
Ye Hills, and Dales, ye Rivers, Woods, and Plains,
And ye that live and move, fair Creatures, tell,
Tell, if ye saw, how I came thus, how here?--
Not of myself;--by some great Maker then,
In goodness and in power pre-eminent:
Tell me, how may I know him, how adore,
From whom I have that thus I move and live,
And feel that I am happier than I know.--
While thus I called, and strayed I knew not whither,
From where I first drew air, and first beheld
This happy light; when, answer none returned,
On a green shady bank, profuse of flowers,
Pensive I sat me down:  There gentle sleep
First found me, and with soft oppression seised
My droused sense, untroubled, though I thought
I then was passing to my former state
Insensible, and forthwith to dissolve:
When suddenly stood at my head a dream,
Whose inward apparition gently moved
My fancy to believe I yet had being,
And lived:  One came, methought, of shape divine,
And said, 'Thy mansion wants thee, Adam; rise,
'First Man, of men innumerable ordained
'First Father! called by thee, I come thy guide
'To the garden of bliss, thy seat prepared.'
So saying, by the hand he took me raised,
And over fields and waters, as in air
Smooth-sliding without step, last led me up
A woody mountain; whose high top was plain,
A circuit wide, enclosed, with goodliest trees
Planted, with walks, and bowers; that what I saw
Of Earth before scarce pleasant seemed.  Each tree,
Loaden with fairest fruit that hung to the eye
Tempting, stirred in me sudden appetite
To pluck and eat; whereat I waked, and found
Before mine eyes all real, as the dream
Had lively shadowed:  Here had new begun
My wandering, had not he, who was my guide
Up hither, from among the trees appeared,
Presence Divine.  Rejoicing, but with awe,
In adoration at his feet I fell
Submiss:  He reared me, and 'Whom thou soughtest I am,'
Said mildly, 'Author of all this thou seest
'Above, or round about thee, or beneath.
'This Paradise I give thee, count it thine
'To till and keep, and of the fruit to eat:
'Of every tree that in the garden grows
'Eat freely with glad heart; fear here no dearth:
'But of the tree whose operation brings
'Knowledge of good and ill, which I have set
'The pledge of thy obedience and thy faith,
'Amid the garden by the tree of life,
'Remember what I warn thee, shun to taste,
'And shun the bitter consequence: for know,
'The day thou eatest thereof, my sole command
'Transgressed, inevitably thou shalt die,
'From that day mortal; and this happy state
'Shalt lose, expelled from hence into a world
'Of woe and sorrow.'  Sternly he pronounced
The rigid interdiction, which resounds
Yet dreadful in mine ear, though in my choice
Not to incur; but soon his clear aspect
Returned, and gracious purpose thus renewed.
'Not only these fair bounds, but all the Earth
'To thee and to thy race I give; as lords
'Possess it, and all things that therein live,
'Or live in sea, or air; beast, fish, and fowl.
'In sign whereof, each bird and beast behold
'After their kinds; I bring them to receive
'From thee their names, and pay thee fealty
'With low subjection; understand the same
'Of fish within their watery residence,
'Not hither summoned, since they cannot change
'Their element, to draw the thinner air.'
As thus he spake, each bird and beast behold
Approaching two and two; these cowering low
With blandishment; each bird stooped on his wing.
I named them, as they passed, and understood
Their nature, with such knowledge God endued
My sudden apprehension:  But in these
I found not what methought I wanted still;
And to the heavenly Vision thus presumed.
O, by what name, for thou above all these,
Above mankind, or aught than mankind higher,
Surpassest far my naming; how may I
Adore thee, Author of this universe,
And all this good to man? for whose well being
So amply, and with hands so liberal,
Thou hast provided all things:  But with me
I see not who partakes.  In solitude
What happiness, who can enjoy alone,
Or, all enjoying, what contentment find?
Thus I presumptuous; and the Vision bright,
As with a smile more brightened, thus replied.
What callest thou solitude?  Is not the Earth
With various living creatures, and the air
Replenished, and all these at thy command
To come and play before thee?  Knowest thou not
Their language and their ways?  They also know,
And reason not contemptibly:  With these
Find pastime, and bear rule; thy realm is large.
So spake the Universal Lord, and seemed
So ordering:  I, with leave of speech implored,
And humble deprecation, thus replied.
Let not my words offend thee, Heavenly Power;
My Maker, be propitious while I speak.
Hast thou not made me here thy substitute,
And these inferiour far beneath me set?
Among unequals what society
Can sort, what harmony, or true delight?
Which must be mutual, in proportion due
Given and received; but, in disparity
The one intense, the other still remiss,
Cannot well suit with either, but soon prove
Tedious alike:  Of fellowship I speak
Such as I seek, fit to participate
All rational delight: wherein the brute
Cannot be human consort:  They rejoice
Each with their kind, lion with lioness;
So fitly them in pairs thou hast combined:
Much less can bird with beast, or fish with fowl
So well converse, nor with the ox the ape;
Worse then can man with beast, and least of all.
Whereto the Almighty answered, not displeased.
A nice and subtle happiness, I see,
Thou to thyself proposest, in the choice
Of thy associates, Adam! and wilt taste
No pleasure, though in pleasure, solitary.
What thinkest thou then of me, and this my state?
Seem I to thee sufficiently possessed
Of happiness, or not? who am alone
From all eternity; for none I know
Second to me or like, equal much less.
How have I then with whom to hold converse,
Save with the creatures which I made, and those
To me inferiour, infinite descents
Beneath what other creatures are to thee?
He ceased; I lowly answered.  To attain
The highth and depth of thy eternal ways
All human thoughts come short, Supreme of things!
Thou in thyself art perfect, and in thee
Is no deficience found:  Not so is Man,
But in degree; the cause of his desire
By conversation with his like to help
Or solace his defects.  No need that thou
Shouldst propagate, already Infinite;
And through all numbers absolute, though One:
But Man by number is to manifest
His single imperfection, and beget
Like of his like, his image multiplied,
In unity defective; which requires
Collateral love, and dearest amity.
Thou in thy secresy although alone,
Best with thyself accompanied, seekest not
Social communication; yet, so pleased,
Canst raise thy creature to what highth thou wilt
Of union or communion, deified:
I, by conversing, cannot these erect
From prone; nor in their ways complacence find.
Thus I emboldened spake, and freedom used
Permissive, and acceptance found; which gained
This answer from the gracious Voice Divine.
Thus far to try thee, Adam, I was pleased;
And find thee knowing, not of beasts alone,
Which thou hast rightly named, but of thyself;
Expressing well the spirit within thee free,
My image, not imparted to the brute;
Whose fellowship therefore unmeet for thee
Good reason was thou freely shouldst dislike;
And be so minded still:  I, ere thou spakest,
Knew it not good for Man to be alone;
And no such company as then thou sawest
Intended thee; for trial only brought,
To see how thou couldest judge of fit and meet:
What next I bring shall please thee, be assured,
Thy likeness, thy fit help, thy other self,
Thy wish exactly to thy heart's desire.
He ended, or I heard no more; for now
My earthly by his heavenly overpowered,
Which it had long stood under, strained to the highth
In that celestial colloquy sublime,
As with an object that excels the sense
Dazzled and spent, sunk down; and sought repair
Of sleep, which instantly fell on me, called
By Nature as in aid, and closed mine eyes.
Mine eyes he closed, but open left the cell
Of fancy, my internal sight; by which,
Abstract as in a trance, methought I saw,
Though sleeping, where I lay, and saw the shape
Still glorious before whom awake I stood:
Who stooping opened my left side, and took
From thence a rib, with cordial spirits warm,
And life-blood streaming fresh; wide was the wound,
But suddenly with flesh filled up and healed:
The rib he formed and fashioned with his hands;
Under his forming hands a creature grew,
Man-like, but different sex; so lovely fair,
That what seemed fair in all the world, seemed now
Mean, or in her summed up, in her contained
And in her looks; which from that time infused
Sweetness into my heart, unfelt before,
And into all things from her air inspired
The spirit of love and amorous delight.
She disappeared, and left me dark; I waked
To find her, or for ever to deplore
Her loss, and other pleasures all abjure:
When out of hope, behold her, not far off,
Such as I saw her in my dream, adorned
With what all Earth or Heaven could bestow
To make her amiable:  On she came,
Led by her heavenly Maker, though unseen,
And guided by his voice; nor uninformed
Of nuptial sanctity, and marriage rites:
Grace was in all her steps, Heaven in her eye,
In every gesture dignity and love.
I, overjoyed, could not forbear aloud.
This turn hath made amends; thou hast fulfilled
Thy words, Creator bounteous and benign,
Giver of all things fair! but fairest this
Of all thy gifts! nor enviest.  I now see
Bone of my bone, flesh of my flesh, myself
Before me:  Woman is her name;of Man
Extracted: for this cause he shall forego
Father and mother, and to his wife adhere;
And they shall be one flesh, one heart, one soul.
She heard me thus; and though divinely brought,
Yet innocence, and virgin modesty,
Her virtue, and the conscience of her worth,
That would be wooed, and not unsought be won,
Not obvious, not obtrusive, but, retired,
The more desirable; or, to say all,
Nature herself, though pure of sinful thought,
Wrought in her so, that, seeing me, she turned:
I followed her; she what was honour knew,
And with obsequious majesty approved
My pleaded reason.  To the nuptial bower
I led her blushing like the morn: All Heaven,
And happy constellations, on that hour
Shed their selectest influence; the Earth
Gave sign of gratulation, and each hill;
Joyous the birds; fresh gales and gentle airs
Whispered it to the woods, and from their wings
Flung rose, flung odours from the spicy shrub,
Disporting, till the amorous bird of night
Sung spousal, and bid haste the evening-star
On his hill top, to light the bridal lamp.
Thus have I told thee all my state, and brought
My story to the sum of earthly bliss,
Which I enjoy; and must confess to find
In all things else delight indeed, but such
As, used or not, works in the mind no change,
Nor vehement desire; these delicacies
I mean of taste, sight, smell, herbs, fruits, and flowers,
Walks, and the melody of birds: but here
Far otherwise, transported I behold,
Transported touch; here passion first I felt,
Commotion strange! in all enjoyments else
Superiour and unmoved; here only weak
Against the charm of Beauty's powerful glance.
Or Nature failed in me, and left some part
Not proof enough such object to sustain;
Or, from my side subducting, took perhaps
More than enough; at least on her bestowed
Too much of ornament, in outward show
Elaborate, of inward less exact.
For well I understand in the prime end
Of Nature her the inferiour, in the mind
And inward faculties, which most excel;
In outward also her resembling less
His image who made both, and less expressing
The character of that dominion given
O'er other creatures:  Yet when I approach
Her loveliness, so absolute she seems
And in herself complete, so well to know
Her own, that what she wills to do or say,
Seems wisest, virtuousest, discreetest, best:
All higher knowledge in her presence falls
Degraded;  Wisdom in discourse with her
Loses discountenanced, and like Folly shows;
Authority and Reason on her wait,
As one intended first, not after made
Occasionally; and, to consummate all,
Greatness of mind and Nobleness their seat
Build in her loveliest, and create an awe
About her, as a guard angelick placed.
To whom the Angel with contracted brow.
Accuse not Nature, she hath done her part;
Do thou but thine; and be not diffident
Of Wisdom; she deserts thee not, if thou
Dismiss not her, when most thou needest her nigh,
By attributing overmuch to things
Less excellent, as thou thyself perceivest.
For, what admirest thou, what transports thee so,
An outside? fair, no doubt, and worthy well
Thy cherishing, thy honouring, and thy love;
Not thy subjection:  Weigh with her thyself;
Then value:  Oft-times nothing profits more
Than self-esteem, grounded on just and right
Well managed; of that skill the more thou knowest,
The more she will acknowledge thee her head,
And to realities yield all her shows:
Made so adorn for thy delight the more,
So awful, that with honour thou mayest love
Thy mate, who sees when thou art seen least wise.
But if the sense of touch, whereby mankind
Is propagated, seem such dear delight
Beyond all other; think the same vouchsafed
To cattle and each beast; which would not be
To them made common and divulged, if aught
Therein enjoyed were worthy to subdue
The soul of man, or passion in him move.
What higher in her society thou findest
Attractive, human, rational, love still;
In loving thou dost well, in passion not,
Wherein true love consists not:  Love refines
The thoughts, and heart enlarges; hath his seat
In reason, and is judicious; is the scale
By which to heavenly love thou mayest ascend,
Not sunk in carnal pleasure; for which cause,
Among the beasts no mate for thee was found.
To whom thus, half abashed, Adam replied.
Neither her outside formed so fair, nor aught
In procreation common to all kinds,
(Though higher of the genial bed by far,
And with mysterious reverence I deem,)
So much delights me, as those graceful acts,
Those thousand decencies, that daily flow
From all her words and actions mixed with love
And sweet compliance, which declare unfeigned
Union of mind, or in us both one soul;
Harmony to behold in wedded pair
More grateful than harmonious sound to the ear.
Yet these subject not; I to thee disclose
What inward thence I feel, not therefore foiled,
Who meet with various objects, from the sense
Variously representing; yet, still free,
Approve the best, and follow what I approve.
To love, thou blamest me not; for Love, thou sayest,
Leads up to Heaven, is both the way and guide;
Bear with me then, if lawful what I ask:
Love not the heavenly Spirits, and how their love
Express they? by looks only? or do they mix
Irradiance, virtual or immediate touch?
To whom the Angel, with a smile that glowed
Celestial rosy red, Love's proper hue,
Answered.  Let it suffice thee that thou knowest
Us happy, and without love no happiness.
Whatever pure thou in the body enjoyest,
(And pure thou wert created) we enjoy
In eminence; and obstacle find none
Of membrane, joint, or limb, exclusive bars;
Easier than air with air, if Spirits embrace,
Total they mix, union of pure with pure
Desiring, nor restrained conveyance need,
As flesh to mix with flesh, or soul with soul.
But I can now no more; the parting sun
Beyond the Earth's green Cape and verdant Isles
Hesperian sets, my signal to depart.
Be strong, live happy, and love!  But, first of all,
Him, whom to love is to obey, and keep
His great command; take heed lest passion sway
Thy judgement to do aught, which else free will
Would not admit: thine, and of all thy sons,
The weal or woe in thee is placed; beware!
I in thy persevering shall rejoice,
And all the Blest:  Stand fast;to stand or fall
Free in thine own arbitrement it lies.
Perfect within, no outward aid require;
And all temptation to transgress repel.
So saying, he arose; whom Adam thus
Followed with benediction.  Since to part,
Go, heavenly guest, ethereal Messenger,
Sent from whose sovran goodness I adore!
Gentle to me and affable hath been
Thy condescension, and shall be honoured ever
With grateful memory:  Thou to mankind
Be good and friendly still, and oft return!
So parted they; the Angel up to Heaven
From the thick shade, and Adam to his bower.



Book IX


No more of talk where God or Angel guest
With Man, as with his friend, familiar us'd,
To sit indulgent, and with him partake
Rural repast; permitting him the while
Venial discourse unblam'd. I now must change
Those notes to tragick; foul distrust, and breach
Disloyal on the part of Man, revolt,
And disobedience: on the part of Heaven
Now alienated, distance and distaste,
Anger and just rebuke, and judgement given,
That brought into this world a world of woe,
Sin and her shadow Death, and Misery
Death's harbinger: Sad talk!yet argument
Not less but more heroick than the wrath
Of stern Achilles on his foe pursued
Thrice fugitive about Troy wall; or rage
Of Turnus for Lavinia disespous'd;
Or Neptune's ire, or Juno's, that so long
Perplexed the Greek, and Cytherea's son:

   00482129
If answerable style I can obtain
Of my celestial patroness, who deigns
Her nightly visitation unimplor'd,
And dictates to me slumbering; or inspires
Easy my unpremeditated verse:
Since first this subject for heroick song
Pleas'd me long choosing, and beginning late;
Not sedulous by nature to indite
Wars, hitherto the only argument
Heroick deem'd chief mastery to dissect
With long and tedious havock fabled knights
In battles feign'd; the better fortitude
Of patience and heroick martyrdom
Unsung; or to describe races and games,
Or tilting furniture, imblazon'd shields,
Impresses quaint, caparisons and steeds,
Bases and tinsel trappings, gorgeous knights
At joust and tournament; then marshall'd feast
Serv'd up in hall with sewers and seneshals;
The skill of artifice or office mean,
Not that which justly gives heroick name
To person, or to poem.  Me, of these
Nor skill'd nor studious, higher argument
Remains; sufficient of itself to raise
That name, unless an age too late, or cold
Climate, or years, damp my intended wing
Depress'd; and much they may, if all be mine,
Not hers, who brings it nightly to my ear.
The sun was sunk, and after him the star
Of Hesperus, whose office is to bring
Twilight upon the earth, short arbiter
"twixt day and night, and now from end to end
Night's hemisphere had veil'd the horizon round:
When satan, who late fled before the threats
Of Gabriel out of Eden, now improv'd
In meditated fraud and malice, bent
On Man's destruction, maugre what might hap
Of heavier on himself, fearless returned
From compassing the earth; cautious of day,
Since Uriel, regent of the sun, descried
His entrance, and foreworned the Cherubim
That kept their watch; thence full of anguish driven,
The space of seven continued nights he rode
With darkness; thrice the equinoctial line
He circled; four times crossed the car of night
From pole to pole, traversing each colure;
On the eighth returned; and, on the coast averse
From entrance or Cherubick watch, by stealth
Found unsuspected way.  There was a place,
Now not, though sin, not time, first wrought the change,
Where Tigris, at the foot of Paradise,
Into a gulf shot under ground, till part
Rose up a fountain by the tree of life:
In with the river sunk, and with it rose
Satan, involved in rising mist; then sought
Where to lie hid; sea he had searched, and land,
From Eden over Pontus and the pool
Maeotis, up beyond the river Ob;
Downward as far antarctick; and in length,
West from Orontes to the ocean barred
At Darien ; thence to the land where flows
Ganges and Indus: Thus the orb he roamed
With narrow search; and with inspection deep
Considered every creature, which of all
Most opportune might serve his wiles; and found
The Serpent subtlest beast of all the field.
Him after long debate, irresolute
Of thoughts revolved, his final sentence chose
Fit vessel, fittest imp of fraud, in whom
To enter, and his dark suggestions hide
From sharpest sight: for, in the wily snake
Whatever sleights, none would suspicious mark,
As from his wit and native subtlety
Proceeding; which, in other beasts observed,
Doubt might beget of diabolick power
Active within, beyond the sense of brute.
Thus he resolved, but first from inward grief
His bursting passion into plaints thus poured.
More justly, seat worthier of Gods, as built
With second thoughts, reforming what was old!
O Earth, how like to Heaven, if not preferred
For what God, after better, worse would build?
Terrestrial Heaven, danced round by other Heavens
That shine, yet bear their bright officious lamps,
Light above light, for thee alone, as seems,
In thee concentring all their precious beams
Of sacred influence!  As God in Heaven
Is center, yet extends to all; so thou,
Centring, receivest from all those orbs: in thee,
Not in themselves, all their known virtue appears
Productive in herb, plant, and nobler birth
Of creatures animate with gradual life
Of growth, sense, reason, all summed up in Man.
With what delight could I have walked thee round,
If I could joy in aught, sweet interchange
Of hill, and valley, rivers, woods, and plains,
Now land, now sea and shores with forest crowned,
Rocks, dens, and caves!  But I in none of these
Find place or refuge; and the more I see
Pleasures about me, so much more I feel
Torment within me, as from the hateful siege
Of contraries: all good to me becomes
Bane, and in Heaven much worse would be my state.
But neither here seek I, no nor in Heaven
To dwell, unless by mastering Heaven's Supreme;
Nor hope to be myself less miserable
By what I seek, but others to make such
As I, though thereby worse to me redound:
For only in destroying I find ease
To my relentless thoughts; and, him destroyed,
Or won to what may work his utter loss,
For whom all this was made, all this will soon
Follow, as to him linked in weal or woe;
In woe then; that destruction wide may range:
To me shall be the glory sole among
The infernal Powers, in one day to have marred
What he, Almighty styled, six nights and days
Continued making; and who knows how long
Before had been contriving? though perhaps
Not longer than since I, in one night, freed
From servitude inglorious well nigh half
The angelick name, and thinner left the throng
Of his adorers: He, to be avenged,
And to repair his numbers thus impaired,
Whether such virtue spent of old now failed
More Angels to create, if they at least
Are his created, or, to spite us more,
Determined to advance into our room
A creature formed of earth, and him endow,
Exalted from so base original,
With heavenly spoils, our spoils: What he decreed,
He effected; Man he made, and for him built
Magnificent this world, and earth his seat,
Him lord pronounced; and, O indignity!
Subjected to his service angel-wings,
And flaming ministers to watch and tend
Their earthly charge: Of these the vigilance
I dread; and, to elude, thus wrapt in mist
Of midnight vapour glide obscure, and pry
In every bush and brake, where hap may find
The serpent sleeping; in whose mazy folds
To hide me, and the dark intent I bring.
O foul descent! that I, who erst contended
With Gods to sit the highest, am now constrained
Into a beast; and, mixed with bestial slime,
This essence to incarnate and imbrute,
That to the highth of Deity aspired!
But what will not ambition and revenge
Descend to?  Who aspires, must down as low
As high he soared; obnoxious, first or last,
To basest things.  Revenge, at first though sweet,
Bitter ere long, back on itself recoils:
Let it; I reck not, so it light well aimed,
Since higher I fall short, on him who next
Provokes my envy, this new favourite
Of Heaven, this man of clay, son of despite,
Whom, us the more to spite, his Maker raised
From dust: Spite then with spite is best repaid.
So saying, through each thicket dank or dry,
Like a black mist low-creeping, he held on
His midnight-search, where soonest he might find
The serpent; him fast-sleeping soon he found
In labyrinth of many a round self-rolled,
His head the midst, well stored with subtile wiles:
Not yet in horrid shade or dismal den,
Nor nocent yet; but, on the grassy herb,
Fearless unfeared he slept: in at his mouth
The Devil entered; and his brutal sense,
In heart or head, possessing, soon inspired
With act intelligential; but his sleep
Disturbed not, waiting close the approach of morn.
Now, when as sacred light began to dawn
In Eden on the humid flowers, that breathed
Their morning incense, when all things, that breathe,
From the Earth's great altar send up silent praise
To the Creator, and his nostrils fill
With grateful smell, forth came the human pair,
And joined their vocal worship to the quire
Of creatures wanting voice; that done, partake
The season prime for sweetest scents and airs:
Then commune, how that day they best may ply
Their growing work: for much their work out-grew
The hands' dispatch of two gardening so wide,
And Eve first to her husband thus began.
Adam, well may we labour still to dress
This garden, still to tend plant, herb, and flower,
Our pleasant task enjoined; but, till more hands
Aid us, the work under our labour grows,
Luxurious by restraint; what we by day
Lop overgrown, or prune, or prop, or bind,
One night or two with wanton growth derides
Tending to wild.  Thou therefore now advise,
Or bear what to my mind first thoughts present:
Let us divide our labours; thou, where choice
Leads thee, or where most needs, whether to wind
The woodbine round this arbour, or direct
The clasping ivy where to climb; while I,
In yonder spring of roses intermixed
With myrtle, find what to redress till noon:
For, while so near each other thus all day
Our task we choose, what wonder if so near
Looks intervene and smiles, or object new
Casual discourse draw on; which intermits
Our day's work, brought to little, though begun
Early, and the hour of supper comes unearned?
To whom mild answer Adam thus returned.
Sole Eve, associate sole, to me beyond
Compare above all living creatures dear!
Well hast thou motioned, well thy thoughts employed,
How we might best fulfil the work which here
God hath assigned us; nor of me shalt pass
Unpraised: for nothing lovelier can be found
In woman, than to study houshold good,
And good works in her husband to promote.
Yet not so strictly hath our Lord imposed
Labour, as to debar us when we need
Refreshment, whether food, or talk between,
Food of the mind, or this sweet intercourse
Of looks and smiles; for smiles from reason flow,
To brute denied, and are of love the food;
Love, not the lowest end of human life.
For not to irksome toil, but to delight,
He made us, and delight to reason joined.
These paths and bowers doubt not but our joint hands
Will keep from wilderness with ease, as wide
As we need walk, till younger hands ere long
Assist us; But, if much converse perhaps
Thee satiate, to short absence I could yield:
For solitude sometimes is best society,
And short retirement urges sweet return.
But other doubt possesses me, lest harm
Befall thee severed from me; for thou knowest
What hath been warned us, what malicious foe
Envying our happiness, and of his own
Despairing, seeks to work us woe and shame
By sly assault; and somewhere nigh at hand
Watches, no doubt, with greedy hope to find
His wish and best advantage, us asunder;
Hopeless to circumvent us joined, where each
To other speedy aid might lend at need:
Whether his first design be to withdraw
Our fealty from God, or to disturb
Conjugal love, than which perhaps no bliss
Enjoyed by us excites his envy more;
Or this, or worse, leave not the faithful side
That gave thee being, still shades thee, and protects.
The wife, where danger or dishonour lurks,
Safest and seemliest by her husband stays,
Who guards her, or with her the worst endures.
To whom the virgin majesty of Eve,
As one who loves, and some unkindness meets,
With sweet austere composure thus replied.
Offspring of Heaven and Earth, and all Earth's Lord!
That such an enemy we have, who seeks
Our ruin, both by thee informed I learn,
And from the parting Angel over-heard,
As in a shady nook I stood behind,
Just then returned at shut of evening flowers.
But, that thou shouldst my firmness therefore doubt
To God or thee, because we have a foe
May tempt it, I expected not to hear.
His violence thou fearest not, being such
As we, not capable of death or pain,
Can either not receive, or can repel.
His fraud is then thy fear; which plain infers
Thy equal fear, that my firm faith and love
Can by his fraud be shaken or seduced;
Thoughts, which how found they harbour in thy breast,
Adam, mis-thought of her to thee so dear?
To whom with healing words Adam replied.
Daughter of God and Man, immortal Eve!
For such thou art; from sin and blame entire:
Not diffident of thee do I dissuade
Thy absence from my sight, but to avoid
The attempt itself, intended by our foe.
For he who tempts, though in vain, at least asperses
The tempted with dishonour foul; supposed
Not incorruptible of faith, not proof
Against temptation: Thou thyself with scorn
And anger wouldst resent the offered wrong,
Though ineffectual found: misdeem not then,
If such affront I labour to avert
From thee alone, which on us both at once
The enemy, though bold, will hardly dare;
Or daring, first on me the assault shall light.
Nor thou his malice and false guile contemn;
Subtle he needs must be, who could seduce
Angels; nor think superfluous other's aid.
I, from the influence of thy looks, receive
Access in every virtue; in thy sight
More wise, more watchful, stronger, if need were
Of outward strength; while shame, thou looking on,
Shame to be overcome or over-reached,
Would utmost vigour raise, and raised unite.
Why shouldst not thou like sense within thee feel
When I am present, and thy trial choose
With me, best witness of thy virtue tried?
So spake domestick Adam in his care
And matrimonial love; but Eve, who thought
Less attributed to her faith sincere,
Thus her reply with accent sweet renewed.
If this be our condition, thus to dwell
In narrow circuit straitened by a foe,
Subtle or violent, we not endued
Single with like defence, wherever met;
How are we happy, still in fear of harm?
But harm precedes not sin: only our foe,
Tempting, affronts us with his foul esteem
Of our integrity: his foul esteem
Sticks no dishonour on our front, but turns
Foul on himself; then wherefore shunned or feared
By us? who rather double honour gain
From his surmise proved false; find peace within,
Favour from Heaven, our witness, from the event.
And what is faith, love, virtue, unassayed
Alone, without exteriour help sustained?
Let us not then suspect our happy state
Left so imperfect by the Maker wise,
As not secure to single or combined.
Frail is our happiness, if this be so,
And Eden were no Eden, thus exposed.
To whom thus Adam fervently replied.
O Woman, best are all things as the will
Of God ordained them: His creating hand
Nothing imperfect or deficient left
Of all that he created, much less Man,
Or aught that might his happy state secure,
Secure from outward force; within himself
The danger lies, yet lies within his power:
Against his will he can receive no harm.
But God left free the will; for what obeys
Reason, is free; and Reason he made right,
But bid her well be ware, and still erect;
Lest, by some fair-appearing good surprised,
She dictate false; and mis-inform the will
To do what God expressly hath forbid.
Not then mistrust, but tender love, enjoins,
That I should mind thee oft; and mind thou me.
Firm we subsist, yet possible to swerve;
Since Reason not impossibly may meet
Some specious object by the foe suborned,
And fall into deception unaware,
Not keeping strictest watch, as she was warned.
Seek not temptation then, which to avoid
Were better, and most likely if from me
Thou sever not: Trial will come unsought.
Wouldst thou approve thy constancy, approve
First thy obedience; the other who can know,
Not seeing thee attempted, who attest?
But, if thou think, trial unsought may find
Us both securer than thus warned thou seemest,
Go; for thy stay, not free, absents thee more;
Go in thy native innocence, rely
On what thou hast of virtue; summon all!
For God towards thee hath done his part, do thine.
So spake the patriarch of mankind; but Eve
Persisted; yet submiss, though last, replied.
With thy permission then, and thus forewarned
Chiefly by what thy own last reasoning words
Touched only; that our trial, when least sought,
May find us both perhaps far less prepared,
The willinger I go, nor much expect
A foe so proud will first the weaker seek;
So bent, the more shall shame him his repulse.
Thus saying, from her husband's hand her hand
Soft she withdrew; and, like a Wood-Nymph light,
Oread or Dryad, or of Delia's train,
Betook her to the groves; but Delia's self
In gait surpassed, and Goddess-like deport,
Though not as she with bow and quiver armed,
But with such gardening tools as Art yet rude,
Guiltless of fire, had formed, or Angels brought.
To Pales, or Pomona, thus adorned,
Likest she seemed, Pomona when she fled
Vertumnus, or to Ceres in her prime,
Yet virgin of Proserpina from Jove.
Her long with ardent look his eye pursued
Delighted, but desiring more her stay.
Oft he to her his charge of quick return
Repeated; she to him as oft engaged
To be returned by noon amid the bower,
And all things in best order to invite
Noontide repast, or afternoon's repose.
O much deceived, much failing, hapless Eve,
Of thy presumed return! event perverse!
Thou never from that hour in Paradise
Foundst either sweet repast, or sound repose;
Such ambush, hid among sweet flowers and shades,
Waited with hellish rancour imminent
To intercept thy way, or send thee back
Despoiled of innocence, of faith, of bliss!
For now, and since first break of dawn, the Fiend,
Mere serpent in appearance, forth was come;
And on his quest, where likeliest he might find
The only two of mankind, but in them
The whole included race, his purposed prey.
In bower and field he sought, where any tuft
Of grove or garden-plot more pleasant lay,
Their tendance, or plantation for delight;
By fountain or by shady rivulet
He sought them both, but wished his hap might find
Eve separate; he wished, but not with hope
Of what so seldom chanced; when to his wish,
Beyond his hope, Eve separate he spies,
Veiled in a cloud of fragrance, where she stood,
Half spied, so thick the roses blushing round
About her glowed, oft stooping to support
Each flower of slender stalk, whose head, though gay
Carnation, purple, azure, or specked with gold,
Hung drooping unsustained; them she upstays
Gently with myrtle band, mindless the while
Herself, though fairest unsupported flower,
From her best prop so far, and storm so nigh.
Nearer he drew, and many a walk traversed
Of stateliest covert, cedar, pine, or palm;
Then voluble and bold, now hid, now seen,
Among thick-woven arborets, and flowers
Imbordered on each bank, the hand of Eve:
Spot more delicious than those gardens feigned
Or of revived Adonis, or renowned
Alcinous, host of old Laertes' son;
Or that, not mystick, where the sapient king
Held dalliance with his fair Egyptian spouse.
Much he the place admired, the person more.
As one who long in populous city pent,
Where houses thick and sewers annoy the air,
Forth issuing on a summer's morn, to breathe
Among the pleasant villages and farms
Adjoined, from each thing met conceives delight;
The smell of grain, or tedded grass, or kine,
Or dairy, each rural sight, each rural sound;
If chance, with nymph-like step, fair virgin pass,
What pleasing seemed, for her now pleases more;
She most, and in her look sums all delight:
Such pleasure took the Serpent to behold
This flowery plat, the sweet recess of Eve
Thus early, thus alone: Her heavenly form
Angelick, but more soft, and feminine,
Her graceful innocence, her every air
Of gesture, or least action, overawed
His malice, and with rapine sweet bereaved
His fierceness of the fierce intent it brought:
That space the Evil-one abstracted stood
From his own evil, and for the time remained
Stupidly good; of enmity disarmed,
Of guile, of hate, of envy, of revenge:
But the hot Hell that always in him burns,
Though in mid Heaven, soon ended his delight,
And tortures him now more, the more he sees
Of pleasure, not for him ordained: then soon
Fierce hate he recollects, and all his thoughts
Of mischief, gratulating, thus excites.
Thoughts, whither have ye led me! with what sweet
Compulsion thus transported, to forget
What hither brought us! hate, not love;nor hope
Of Paradise for Hell, hope here to taste
Of pleasure; but all pleasure to destroy,
Save what is in destroying; other joy
To me is lost.  Then, let me not let pass
Occasion which now smiles; behold alone
The woman, opportune to all attempts,
Her husband, for I view far round, not nigh,
Whose higher intellectual more I shun,
And strength, of courage haughty, and of limb
Heroick built, though of terrestrial mould;
Foe not informidable! exempt from wound,
I not; so much hath Hell debased, and pain
Enfeebled me, to what I was in Heaven.
She fair, divinely fair, fit love for Gods!
Not terrible, though terrour be in love
And beauty, not approached by stronger hate,
Hate stronger, under show of love well feigned;
The way which to her ruin now I tend.
So spake the enemy of mankind, enclosed
In serpent, inmate bad! and toward Eve
Addressed his way: not with indented wave,
Prone on the ground, as since; but on his rear,
Circular base of rising folds, that towered
Fold above fold, a surging maze! his head
Crested aloft, and carbuncle his eyes;
With burnished neck of verdant gold, erect
Amidst his circling spires, that on the grass
Floated redundant: pleasing was his shape
And lovely; never since of serpent-kind
Lovelier, not those that in Illyria changed,
Hermione and Cadmus, or the god
In Epidaurus; nor to which transformed
Ammonian Jove, or Capitoline, was seen;
He with Olympias; this with her who bore
Scipio, the highth of Rome.  With tract oblique
At first, as one who sought access, but feared
To interrupt, side-long he works his way.
As when a ship, by skilful steersmen wrought
Nigh river's mouth or foreland, where the wind
Veers oft, as oft so steers, and shifts her sail:
So varied he, and of his tortuous train
Curled many a wanton wreath in sight of Eve,
To lure her eye; she, busied, heard the sound
Of rusling leaves, but minded not, as used
To such disport before her through the field,
From every beast; more duteous at her call,
Than at Circean call the herd disguised.
He, bolder now, uncalled before her stood,
But as in gaze admiring: oft he bowed
His turret crest, and sleek enamelled neck,
Fawning; and licked the ground whereon she trod.
His gentle dumb expression turned at length
The eye of Eve to mark his play; he, glad
Of her attention gained, with serpent-tongue
Organick, or impulse of vocal air,
His fraudulent temptation thus began.
Wonder not, sovran Mistress, if perhaps
Thou canst, who art sole wonder! much less arm
Thy looks, the Heaven of mildness, with disdain,
Displeased that I approach thee thus, and gaze
Insatiate; I thus single;nor have feared
Thy awful brow, more awful thus retired.
Fairest resemblance of thy Maker fair,
Thee all things living gaze on, all things thine
By gift, and thy celestial beauty adore
With ravishment beheld! there best beheld,
Where universally admired; but here
In this enclosure wild, these beasts among,
Beholders rude, and shallow to discern
Half what in thee is fair, one man except,
Who sees thee? and what is one? who should be seen
A Goddess among Gods, adored and served
By Angels numberless, thy daily train.
So glozed the Tempter, and his proem tuned:
Into the heart of Eve his words made way,
Though at the voice much marvelling; at length,
Not unamazed, she thus in answer spake.
What may this mean? language of man pronounced
By tongue of brute, and human sense expressed?
The first, at least, of these I thought denied
To beasts; whom God, on their creation-day,
Created mute to all articulate sound:
The latter I demur; for in their looks
Much reason, and in their actions, oft appears.
Thee, Serpent, subtlest beast of all the field
I knew, but not with human voice endued;
Redouble then this miracle, and say,
How camest thou speakable of mute, and how
To me so friendly grown above the rest
Of brutal kind, that daily are in sight?
Say, for such wonder claims attention due.
To whom the guileful Tempter thus replied.
Empress of this fair world, resplendent Eve!
Easy to me it is to tell thee all
What thou commandest; and right thou shouldst be obeyed:
I was at first as other beasts that graze
The trodden herb, of abject thoughts and low,
As was my food; nor aught but food discerned
Or sex, and apprehended nothing high:
Till, on a day roving the field, I chanced
A goodly tree far distant to behold
Loaden with fruit of fairest colours mixed,
Ruddy and gold: I nearer drew to gaze;
When from the boughs a savoury odour blown,
Grateful to appetite, more pleased my sense
Than smell of sweetest fennel, or the teats
Of ewe or goat dropping with milk at even,
Unsucked of lamb or kid, that tend their play.
To satisfy the sharp desire I had
Of tasting those fair apples, I resolved
Not to defer; hunger and thirst at once,
Powerful persuaders, quickened at the scent
Of that alluring fruit, urged me so keen.
About the mossy trunk I wound me soon;
For, high from ground, the branches would require
Thy utmost reach or Adam's: Round the tree
All other beasts that saw, with like desire
Longing and envying stood, but could not reach.
Amid the tree now got, where plenty hung
Tempting so nigh, to pluck and eat my fill
I spared not; for, such pleasure till that hour,
At feed or fountain, never had I found.
Sated at length, ere long I might perceive
Strange alteration in me, to degree
Of reason in my inward powers; and speech
Wanted not long; though to this shape retained.
Thenceforth to speculations high or deep
I turned my thoughts, and with capacious mind
Considered all things visible in Heaven,
Or Earth, or Middle; all things fair and good:
But all that fair and good in thy divine
Semblance, and in thy beauty's heavenly ray,
United I beheld; no fair to thine
Equivalent or second! which compelled
Me thus, though importune perhaps, to come
And gaze, and worship thee of right declared
Sovran of creatures, universal Dame!
So talked the spirited sly Snake; and Eve,
Yet more amazed, unwary thus replied.
Serpent, thy overpraising leaves in doubt
The virtue of that fruit, in thee first proved:
But say, where grows the tree? from hence how far?
For many are the trees of God that grow
In Paradise, and various, yet unknown
To us; in such abundance lies our choice,
As leaves a greater store of fruit untouched,
Still hanging incorruptible, till men
Grow up to their provision, and more hands
Help to disburden Nature of her birth.
To whom the wily Adder, blithe and glad.
Empress, the way is ready, and not long;
Beyond a row of myrtles, on a flat,
Fast by a fountain, one small thicket past
Of blowing myrrh and balm: if thou accept
My conduct, I can bring thee thither soon
Lead then, said Eve.  He, leading, swiftly rolled
In tangles, and made intricate seem straight,
To mischief swift.  Hope elevates, and joy
Brightens his crest; as when a wandering fire,
Compact of unctuous vapour, which the night
Condenses, and the cold environs round,
Kindled through agitation to a flame,
Which oft, they say, some evil Spirit attends,
Hovering and blazing with delusive light,
Misleads the amazed night-wanderer from his way
To bogs and mires, and oft through pond or pool;
There swallowed up and lost, from succour far.
So glistered the dire Snake, and into fraud
Led Eve, our credulous mother, to the tree
Of prohibition, root of all our woe;
Which when she saw, thus to her guide she spake.
Serpent, we might have spared our coming hither,
Fruitless to me, though fruit be here to excess,
The credit of whose virtue rest with thee;
Wonderous indeed, if cause of such effects.
But of this tree we may not taste nor touch;
God so commanded, and left that command
Sole daughter of his voice; the rest, we live
Law to ourselves; our reason is our law.
To whom the Tempter guilefully replied.
Indeed! hath God then said that of the fruit
Of all these garden-trees ye shall not eat,
Yet Lords declared of all in earth or air$?
To whom thus Eve, yet sinless.  Of the fruit
Of each tree in the garden we may eat;
But of the fruit of this fair tree amidst
The garden, God hath said, Ye shall not eat
Thereof, nor shall ye touch it, lest ye die.
She scarce had said, though brief, when now more bold
The Tempter, but with show of zeal and love
To Man, and indignation at his wrong,
New part puts on; and, as to passion moved,
Fluctuates disturbed, yet comely and in act
Raised, as of some great matter to begin.
As when of old some orator renowned,
In Athens or free Rome, where eloquence
Flourished, since mute! to some great cause addressed,
Stood in himself collected; while each part,
Motion, each act, won audience ere the tongue;
Sometimes in highth began, as no delay
Of preface brooking, through his zeal of right:
So standing, moving, or to highth up grown,
The Tempter, all impassioned, thus began.
O sacred, wise, and wisdom-giving Plant,
Mother of science! now I feel thy power
Within me clear; not only to discern
Things in their causes, but to trace the ways
Of highest agents, deemed however wise.
Queen of this universe! do not believe
Those rigid threats of death: ye shall not die:
How should you? by the fruit? it gives you life
To knowledge; by the threatener? look on me,
Me, who have touched and tasted; yet both live,
And life more perfect have attained than Fate
Meant me, by venturing higher than my lot.
Shall that be shut to Man, which to the Beast
Is open? or will God incense his ire
For such a petty trespass? and not praise
Rather your dauntless virtue, whom the pain
Of death denounced, whatever thing death be,
Deterred not from achieving what might lead
To happier life, knowledge of good and evil;
Of good, how just? of evil, if what is evil
Be real, why not known, since easier shunned?
God therefore cannot hurt ye, and be just;
Not just, not God; not feared then, nor obeyed:
Your fear itself of death removes the fear.
Why then was this forbid?  Why, but to awe;
Why, but to keep ye low and ignorant,
His worshippers?  He knows that in the day
Ye eat thereof, your eyes that seem so clear,
Yet are but dim, shall perfectly be then
Opened and cleared, and ye shall be as Gods,
Knowing both good and evil, as they know.
That ye shall be as Gods, since I as Man,
Internal Man, is but proportion meet;
I, of brute, human; ye, of human, Gods.
So ye shall die perhaps, by putting off
Human, to put on Gods; death to be wished,
Though threatened, which no worse than this can bring.
And what are Gods, that Man may not become
As they, participating God-like food?
The Gods are first, and that advantage use
On our belief, that all from them proceeds:
I question it; for this fair earth I see,
Warmed by the sun, producing every kind;
Them, nothing: if they all things, who enclosed
Knowledge of good and evil in this tree,
That whoso eats thereof, forthwith attains
Wisdom without their leave? and wherein lies
The offence, that Man should thus attain to know?
What can your knowledge hurt him, or this tree
Impart against his will, if all be his?
Or is it envy? and can envy dwell
In heavenly breasts?  These, these, and many more
Causes import your need of this fair fruit.
Goddess humane, reach then, and freely taste!
He ended; and his words, replete with guile,
Into her heart too easy entrance won:
Fixed on the fruit she gazed, which to behold
Might tempt alone; and in her ears the sound
Yet rung of his persuasive words, impregned
With reason, to her seeming, and with truth:
Mean while the hour of noon drew on, and waked
An eager appetite, raised by the smell
So savoury of that fruit, which with desire,
Inclinable now grown to touch or taste,
Solicited her longing eye; yet first
Pausing a while, thus to herself she mused.
Great are thy virtues, doubtless, best of fruits,
Though kept from man, and worthy to be admired;
Whose taste, too long forborn, at first assay
Gave elocution to the mute, and taught
The tongue not made for speech to speak thy praise:
Thy praise he also, who forbids thy use,
Conceals not from us, naming thee the tree
Of knowledge, knowledge both of good and evil;
Forbids us then to taste! but his forbidding
Commends thee more, while it infers the good
By thee communicated, and our want:
For good unknown sure is not had; or, had
And yet unknown, is as not had at all.
In plain then, what forbids he but to know,
Forbids us good, forbids us to be wise?
Such prohibitions bind not.  But, if death
Bind us with after-bands, what profits then
Our inward freedom?  In the day we eat
Of this fair fruit, our doom is, we shall die!
How dies the Serpent? he hath eaten and lives,
And knows, and speaks, and reasons, and discerns,
Irrational till then.  For us alone
Was death invented? or to us denied
This intellectual food, for beasts reserved?
For beasts it seems: yet that one beast which first
Hath tasted envies not, but brings with joy
The good befallen him, author unsuspect,
Friendly to man, far from deceit or guile.
What fear I then? rather, what know to fear
Under this ignorance of good and evil,
Of God or death, of law or penalty?
Here grows the cure of all, this fruit divine,
Fair to the eye, inviting to the taste,
Of virtue to make wise:  What hinders then
To reach, and feed at once both body and mind?
So saying, her rash hand in evil hour
Forth reaching to the fruit, she plucked, she eat!
Earth felt the wound; and Nature from her seat,
Sighing through all her works, gave signs of woe,
That all was lost.  Back to the thicket slunk
The guilty Serpent; and well might;for Eve,
Intent now wholly on her taste, nought else
Regarded; such delight till then, as seemed,
In fruit she never tasted, whether true
Or fancied so, through expectation high
Of knowledge; not was Godhead from her thought.
Greedily she ingorged without restraint,
And knew not eating death:  Satiate at length,
And hightened as with wine, jocund and boon,
Thus to herself she pleasingly began.
O sovran, virtuous, precious of all trees
In Paradise! of operation blest
To sapience, hitherto obscured, infamed.
And thy fair fruit let hang, as to no end
Created; but henceforth my early care,
Not without song, each morning, and due praise,
Shall tend thee, and the fertile burden ease
Of thy full branches offered free to all;
Till, dieted by thee, I grow mature
In knowledge, as the Gods, who all things know;
Though others envy what they cannot give:
For, had the gift been theirs, it had not here
Thus grown.  Experience, next, to thee I owe,
Best guide; not following thee, I had remained
In ignorance; thou openest wisdom's way,
And givest access, though secret she retire.
And I perhaps am secret: Heaven is high,
High, and remote to see from thence distinct
Each thing on Earth; and other care perhaps
May have diverted from continual watch
Our great Forbidder, safe with all his spies
About him.  But to Adam in what sort
Shall I appear? shall I to him make known
As yet my change, and give him to partake
Full happiness with me, or rather not,
But keeps the odds of knowledge in my power
Without copartner? so to add what wants
In female sex, the more to draw his love,
And render me more equal; and perhaps,
A thing not undesirable, sometime
Superiour; for, inferiour, who is free
This may be well:  But what if God have seen,
And death ensue? then I shall be no more!
And Adam, wedded to another Eve,
Shall live with her enjoying, I extinct;
A death to think!  Confirmed then I resolve,
Adam shall share with me in bliss or woe:
So dear I love him, that with him all deaths
I could endure, without him live no life.
So saying, from the tree her step she turned;
But first low reverence done, as to the Power
That dwelt within, whose presence had infused
Into the plant sciential sap, derived
From nectar, drink of Gods.  Adam the while,
Waiting desirous her return, had wove
Of choicest flowers a garland, to adorn
Her tresses, and her rural labours crown;
As reapers oft are wont their harvest-queen.
Great joy he promised to his thoughts, and new
Solace in her return, so long delayed:
Yet oft his heart, divine of something ill,
Misgave him; he the faltering measure felt;
And forth to meet her went, the way she took
That morn when first they parted: by the tree
Of knowledge he must pass; there he her met,
Scarce from the tree returning; in her hand
A bough of fairest fruit, that downy smiled,
New gathered, and ambrosial smell diffused.
To him she hasted; in her face excuse
Came prologue, and apology too prompt;
Which, with bland words at will, she thus addressed.
Hast thou not wondered, Adam, at my stay?
Thee I have missed, and thought it long, deprived
Thy presence; agony of love till now
Not felt, nor shall be twice; for never more
Mean I to try, what rash untried I sought,
The pain of absence from thy sight.  But strange
Hath been the cause, and wonderful to hear:
This tree is not, as we are told, a tree
Of danger tasted, nor to evil unknown
Opening the way, but of divine effect
To open eyes, and make them Gods who taste;
And hath been tasted such:  The serpent wise,
Or not restrained as we, or not obeying,
Hath eaten of the fruit; and is become,
Not dead, as we are threatened, but thenceforth
Endued with human voice and human sense,
Reasoning to admiration; and with me
Persuasively hath so prevailed, that I
Have also tasted, and have also found
The effects to correspond; opener mine eyes,
Dim erst, dilated spirits, ampler heart,
And growing up to Godhead; which for thee
Chiefly I sought, without thee can despise.
For bliss, as thou hast part, to me is bliss;
Tedious, unshared with thee, and odious soon.
Thou therefore also taste, that equal lot
May join us, equal joy, as equal love;
Lest, thou not tasting, different degree
Disjoin us, and I then too late renounce
Deity for thee, when Fate will not permit.
Thus Eve with countenance blithe her story told;
But in her cheek distemper flushing glowed.
On the other side Adam, soon as he heard
The fatal trespass done by Eve, amazed,
Astonied stood and blank, while horrour chill
Ran through his veins, and all his joints relaxed;
From his slack hand the garland wreathed for Eve
Down dropt, and all the faded roses shed:
Speechless he stood and pale, till thus at length
First to himself he inward silence broke.
O fairest of Creation, last and best
Of all God's works, Creature in whom excelled
Whatever can to sight or thought be formed,
Holy, divine, good, amiable, or sweet!
How art thou lost! how on a sudden lost,
Defaced, deflowered, and now to death devote!
Rather, how hast thou yielded to transgress
The strict forbiddance, how to violate
The sacred fruit forbidden!  Some cursed fraud
Of enemy hath beguiled thee, yet unknown,
And me with thee hath ruined; for with thee
Certain my resolution is to die:
How can I live without thee! how forego
Thy sweet converse, and love so dearly joined,
To live again in these wild woods forlorn!
Should God create another Eve, and I
Another rib afford, yet loss of thee
Would never from my heart: no, no!I feel
The link of Nature draw me: flesh of flesh,
Bone of my bone thou art, and from thy state
Mine never shall be parted, bliss or woe.
So having said, as one from sad dismay
Recomforted, and after thoughts disturbed
Submitting to what seemed remediless,
Thus in calm mood his words to Eve he turned.
Bold deed thou hast presumed, adventurous Eve,
And peril great provoked, who thus hast dared,
Had it been only coveting to eye
That sacred fruit, sacred to abstinence,
Much more to taste it under ban to touch.
But past who can recall, or done undo?
Not God Omnipotent, nor Fate; yet so
Perhaps thou shalt not die, perhaps the fact
Is not so heinous now, foretasted fruit,
Profaned first by the serpent, by him first
Made common, and unhallowed, ere our taste;
Nor yet on him found deadly; yet he lives;
Lives, as thou saidst, and gains to live, as Man,
Higher degree of life; inducement strong
To us, as likely tasting to attain
Proportional ascent; which cannot be
But to be Gods, or Angels, demi-Gods.
Nor can I think that God, Creator wise,
Though threatening, will in earnest so destroy
Us his prime creatures, dignified so high,
Set over all his works; which in our fall,
For us created, needs with us must fail,
Dependant made; so God shall uncreate,
Be frustrate, do, undo, and labour lose;
Not well conceived of God, who, though his power
Creation could repeat, yet would be loth
Us to abolish, lest the Adversary
Triumph, and say; "Fickle their state whom God
"Most favours; who can please him long? Me first
"He ruined, now Mankind; whom will he next?"
Matter of scorn, not to be given the Foe.
However I with thee have fixed my lot,
Certain to undergo like doom:  If death
Consort with thee, death is to me as life;
So forcible within my heart I feel
The bond of Nature draw me to my own;
My own in thee, for what thou art is mine;
Our state cannot be severed; we are one,
One flesh; to lose thee were to lose myself.
So Adam; and thus Eve to him replied.
O glorious trial of exceeding love,
Illustrious evidence, example high!
Engaging me to emulate; but, short
Of thy perfection, how shall I attain,
Adam, from whose dear side I boast me sprung,
And gladly of our union hear thee speak,
One heart, one soul in both; whereof good proof
This day affords, declaring thee resolved,
Rather than death, or aught than death more dread,
Shall separate us, linked in love so dear,
To undergo with me one guilt, one crime,
If any be, of tasting this fair fruit;
Whose virtue for of good still good proceeds,
Direct, or by occasion, hath presented
This happy trial of thy love, which else
So eminently never had been known?
Were it I thought death menaced would ensue
This my attempt, I would sustain alone
The worst, and not persuade thee, rather die
Deserted, than oblige thee with a fact
Pernicious to thy peace; chiefly assured
Remarkably so late of thy so true,
So faithful, love unequalled: but I feel
Far otherwise the event; not death, but life
Augmented, opened eyes, new hopes, new joys,
Taste so divine, that what of sweet before
Hath touched my sense, flat seems to this, and harsh.
On my experience, Adam, freely taste,
And fear of death deliver to the winds.
So saying, she embraced him, and for joy
Tenderly wept; much won, that he his love
Had so ennobled, as of choice to incur
Divine displeasure for her sake, or death.
In recompence for such compliance bad
Such recompence best merits from the bough
She gave him of that fair enticing fruit
With liberal hand: he scrupled not to eat,
Against his better knowledge; not deceived,
But fondly overcome with female charm.
Earth trembled from her entrails, as again
In pangs; and Nature gave a second groan;
Sky loured; and, muttering thunder, some sad drops
Wept at completing of the mortal sin
Original: while Adam took no thought,
Eating his fill; nor Eve to iterate
Her former trespass feared, the more to sooth
Him with her loved society; that now,
As with new wine intoxicated both,
They swim in mirth, and fancy that they feel
Divinity within them breeding wings,
Wherewith to scorn the earth:  But that false fruit
Far other operation first displayed,
Carnal desire inflaming; he on Eve
Began to cast lascivious eyes; she him
As wantonly repaid; in lust they burn:
Till Adam thus 'gan Eve to dalliance move.
Eve, now I see thou art exact of taste,
And elegant, of sapience no small part;
Since to each meaning savour we apply,
And palate call judicious; I the praise
Yield thee, so well this day thou hast purveyed.
Much pleasure we have lost, while we abstained
From this delightful fruit, nor known till now
True relish, tasting; if such pleasure be
In things to us forbidden, it might be wished,
For this one tree had been forbidden ten.
But come, so well refreshed, now let us play,
As meet is, after such delicious fare;
For never did thy beauty, since the day
I saw thee first and wedded thee, adorned
With all perfections, so inflame my sense
With ardour to enjoy thee, fairer now
Than ever; bounty of this virtuous tree!
So said he, and forbore not glance or toy
Of amorous intent; well understood
Of Eve, whose eye darted contagious fire.
Her hand he seised; and to a shady bank,
Thick over-head with verdant roof imbowered,
He led her nothing loth; flowers were the couch,
Pansies, and violets, and asphodel,
And hyacinth;  Earth's freshest softest lap.
There they their fill of love and love's disport
Took largely, of their mutual guilt the seal,
The solace of their sin; till dewy sleep
Oppressed them, wearied with their amorous play,
Soon as the force of that fallacious fruit,
That with exhilarating vapour bland
About their spirits had played, and inmost powers
Made err, was now exhaled; and grosser sleep,
Bred of unkindly fumes, with conscious dreams
Incumbered, now had left them; up they rose
As from unrest; and, each the other viewing,
Soon found their eyes how opened, and their minds
How darkened; innocence, that as a veil
Had shadowed them from knowing ill, was gone;
Just confidence, and native righteousness,
And honour, from about them, naked left
To guilty Shame; he covered, but his robe
Uncovered more.  So rose the Danite strong,
Herculean Samson, from the harlot-lap
Of Philistean Dalilah, and waked
Shorn of his strength.  They destitute and bare
Of all their virtue:  Silent, and in face
Confounded, long they sat, as strucken mute:
Till Adam, though not less than Eve abashed,
At length gave utterance to these words constrained.
O Eve, in evil hour thou didst give ear
To that false worm, of whomsoever taught
To counterfeit Man's voice; true in our fall,
False in our promised rising; since our eyes
Opened we find indeed, and find we know
Both good and evil; good lost, and evil got;
Bad fruit of knowledge, if this be to know;
Which leaves us naked thus, of honour void,
Of innocence, of faith, of purity,
Our wonted ornaments now soiled and stained,
And in our faces evident the signs
Of foul concupiscence; whence evil store;
Even shame, the last of evils; of the first
Be sure then.--How shall I behold the face
Henceforth of God or Angel, erst with joy
And rapture so oft beheld?  Those heavenly shapes
Will dazzle now this earthly with their blaze
Insufferably bright.  O! might I here
In solitude live savage; in some glade
Obscured, where highest woods, impenetrable
To star or sun-light, spread their umbrage broad
And brown as evening:  Cover me, ye Pines!
Ye Cedars, with innumerable boughs
Hide me, where I may never see them more!--
But let us now, as in bad plight, devise
What best may for the present serve to hide
The parts of each from other, that seem most
To shame obnoxious, and unseemliest seen;
Some tree, whose broad smooth leaves together sewed,
And girded on our loins, may cover round
Those middle parts; that this new comer, Shame,
There sit not, and reproach us as unclean.
So counselled he, and both together went
Into the thickest wood; there soon they chose
The fig-tree; not that kind for fruit renowned,
But such as at this day, to Indians known,
In Malabar or Decan spreads her arms
Branching so broad and long, that in the ground
The bended twigs take root, and daughters grow
About the mother tree, a pillared shade
High over-arched, and echoing walks between:
There oft the Indian herdsman, shunning heat,
Shelters in cool, and tends his pasturing herds
At loop-holes cut through thickest shade:  Those leaves
They gathered, broad as Amazonian targe;
And, with what skill they had, together sewed,
To gird their waist; vain covering, if to hide
Their guilt and dreaded shame!  O, how unlike
To that first naked glory!  Such of late
Columbus found the American, so girt
With feathered cincture; naked else, and wild
Among the trees on isles and woody shores.
Thus fenced, and, as they thought, their shame in part
Covered, but not at rest or ease of mind,
They sat them down to weep; nor only tears
Rained at their eyes, but high winds worse within
Began to rise, high passions, anger, hate,
Mistrust, suspicion, discord; and shook sore
Their inward state of mind, calm region once
And full of peace, now tost and turbulent:
For Understanding ruled not, and the Will
Heard not her lore; both in subjection now
To sensual Appetite, who from beneath
Usurping over sovran Reason claimed
Superiour sway: From thus distempered breast,
Adam, estranged in look and altered style,
Speech intermitted thus to Eve renewed.
Would thou hadst hearkened to my words, and staid
With me, as I besought thee, when that strange
Desire of wandering, this unhappy morn,
I know not whence possessed thee; we had then
Remained still happy; not, as now, despoiled
Of all our good; shamed, naked, miserable!
Let none henceforth seek needless cause to approve
The faith they owe; when earnestly they seek
Such proof, conclude, they then begin to fail.
To whom, soon moved with touch of blame, thus Eve.
What words have passed thy lips, Adam severe!
Imputest thou that to my default, or will
Of wandering, as thou callest it, which who knows
But might as ill have happened thou being by,
Or to thyself perhaps?  Hadst thou been there,
Or here the attempt, thou couldst not have discerned
Fraud in the Serpent, speaking as he spake;
No ground of enmity between us known,
Why he should mean me ill, or seek to harm.
Was I to have never parted from thy side?
As good have grown there still a lifeless rib.
Being as I am, why didst not thou, the head,
Command me absolutely not to go,
Going into such danger, as thou saidst?
Too facile then, thou didst not much gainsay;
Nay, didst permit, approve, and fair dismiss.
Hadst thou been firm and fixed in thy dissent,
Neither had I transgressed, nor thou with me.
To whom, then first incensed, Adam replied.
Is this the love, is this the recompence
Of mine to thee, ingrateful Eve! expressed
Immutable, when thou wert lost, not I;
Who might have lived, and joyed immortal bliss,
Yet willingly chose rather death with thee?
And am I now upbraided as the cause
Of thy transgressing?  Not enough severe,
It seems, in thy restraint:  What could I more
I warned thee, I admonished thee, foretold
The danger, and the lurking enemy
That lay in wait; beyond this, had been force;
And force upon free will hath here no place.
But confidence then bore thee on; secure
Either to meet no danger, or to find
Matter of glorious trial; and perhaps
I also erred, in overmuch admiring
What seemed in thee so perfect, that I thought
No evil durst attempt thee; but I rue
The errour now, which is become my crime,
And thou the accuser.  Thus it shall befall
Him, who, to worth in women overtrusting,
Lets her will rule: restraint she will not brook;
And, left to herself, if evil thence ensue,
She first his weak indulgence will accuse.
Thus they in mutual accusation spent
The fruitless hours, but neither self-condemning;
And of their vain contest appeared no end.



Book X


Mean while the heinous and despiteful act
Of Satan, done in Paradise; and how
He, in the serpent, had perverted Eve,
Her husband she, to taste the fatal fruit,
Was known in Heaven; for what can 'scape the eye
Of God all-seeing, or deceive his heart
Omniscient? who, in all things wise and just,
Hindered not Satan to attempt the mind
Of Man, with strength entire and free will armed,
Complete to have discovered and repulsed
Whatever wiles of foe or seeming friend.
For still they knew, and ought to have still remembered,
The high injunction, not to taste that fruit,
Whoever tempted; which they not obeying,
(Incurred what could they less?) the penalty;
And, manifold in sin, deserved to fall.
Up into Heaven from Paradise in haste
The angelick guards ascended, mute, and sad,
For Man; for of his state by this they knew,
Much wondering how the subtle Fiend had stolen
Entrance unseen.  Soon as the unwelcome news
From Earth arrived at Heaven-gate, displeased
All were who heard; dim sadness did not spare
That time celestial visages, yet, mixed
With pity, violated not their bliss.
About the new-arrived, in multitudes
The ethereal people ran, to hear and know
How all befel:  They towards the throne supreme,
Accountable, made haste, to make appear,
With righteous plea, their utmost vigilance
And easily approved; when the Most High
Eternal Father, from his secret cloud,
Amidst in thunder uttered thus his voice.
Assembled Angels, and ye Powers returned
From unsuccessful charge; be not dismayed,
Nor troubled at these tidings from the earth,
Which your sincerest care could not prevent;
Foretold so lately what would come to pass,
When first this tempter crossed the gulf from Hell.
I told ye then he should prevail, and speed
On his bad errand; Man should be seduced,
And flattered out of all, believing lies
Against his Maker; no decree of mine
Concurring to necessitate his fall,
Or touch with lightest moment of impulse
His free will, to her own inclining left
In even scale.  But fallen he is; and now
What rests, but that the mortal sentence pass
On his transgression,--death denounced that day?
Which he presumes already vain and void,
Because not yet inflicted, as he feared,
By some immediate stroke; but soon shall find
Forbearance no acquittance, ere day end.
Justice shall not return as bounty scorned.
But whom send I to judge them? whom but thee,
Vicegerent Son?  To thee I have transferred
All judgement, whether in Heaven, or Earth, or Hell.
Easy it may be seen that I intend
Mercy colleague with justice, sending thee
Man's friend, his Mediator, his designed
Both ransom and Redeemer voluntary,
And destined Man himself to judge Man fallen.
So spake the Father; and, unfolding bright
Toward the right hand his glory, on the Son
Blazed forth unclouded Deity: He full
Resplendent all his Father manifest
Expressed, and thus divinely answered mild.
Father Eternal, thine is to decree;
Mine, both in Heaven and Earth, to do thy will
Supreme; that thou in me, thy Son beloved,
Mayest ever rest well pleased.  I go to judge
On earth these thy transgressours; but thou knowest,
Whoever judged, the worst on me must light,
When time shall be; for so I undertook
Before thee; and, not repenting, this obtain
Of right, that I may mitigate their doom
On me derived; yet I shall temper so
Justice with mercy, as may illustrate most
Them fully satisfied, and thee appease.
Attendance none shall need, nor train, where none
Are to behold the judgement, but the judged,
Those two; the third best absent is condemned,
Convict by flight, and rebel to all law:
Conviction to the serpent none belongs.
Thus saying, from his radiant seat he rose
Of high collateral glory: Him Thrones, and Powers,
Princedoms, and Dominations ministrant,
Accompanied to Heaven-gate; from whence
Eden, and all the coast, in prospect lay.
Down he descended straight; the speed of Gods
Time counts not, though with swiftest minutes winged.
Now was the sun in western cadence low
From noon, and gentle airs, due at their hour,
To fan the earth now waked, and usher in
The evening cool; when he, from wrath more cool,
Came the mild Judge, and Intercessour both,
To sentence Man:  The voice of God they heard
Now walking in the garden, by soft winds
Brought to their ears, while day declined; they heard,
And from his presence hid themselves among
The thickest trees, both man and wife; till God,
Approaching, thus to Adam called aloud.
Where art thou, Adam, wont with joy to meet
My coming seen far off?  I miss thee here,
Not pleased, thus entertained with solitude,
Where obvious duty ere while appeared unsought:
Or come I less conspicuous, or what change
Absents thee, or what chance detains?--Come forth!
He came; and with him Eve, more loth, though first
To offend; discountenanced both, and discomposed;
Love was not in their looks, either to God,
Or to each other; but apparent guilt,
And shame, and perturbation, and despair,
Anger, and obstinacy, and hate, and guile.
Whence Adam, faltering long, thus answered brief.
I heard thee in the garden, and of thy voice
Afraid, being naked, hid myself.  To whom
The gracious Judge without revile replied.
My voice thou oft hast heard, and hast not feared,
But still rejoiced; how is it now become
So dreadful to thee?  That thou art naked, who
Hath told thee?  Hast thou eaten of the tree,
Whereof I gave thee charge thou shouldst not eat?
To whom thus Adam sore beset replied.
O Heaven! in evil strait this day I stand
Before my Judge; either to undergo
Myself the total crime, or to accuse
My other self, the partner of my life;
Whose failing, while her faith to me remains,
I should conceal, and not expose to blame
By my complaint: but strict necessity
Subdues me, and calamitous constraint;
Lest on my head both sin and punishment,
However insupportable, be all
Devolved; though should I hold my peace, yet thou
Wouldst easily detect what I conceal.--
This Woman, whom thou madest to be my help,
And gavest me as thy perfect gift, so good,
So fit, so acceptable, so divine,
That from her hand I could suspect no ill,
And what she did, whatever in itself,
Her doing seemed to justify the deed;
She gave me of the tree, and I did eat.
To whom the Sovran Presence thus replied.
Was she thy God, that her thou didst obey
Before his voice? or was she made thy guide,
Superiour, or but equal, that to her
Thou didst resign thy manhood, and the place
Wherein God set thee above her made of thee,
And for thee, whose perfection far excelled
Hers in all real dignity?  Adorned
She was indeed, and lovely, to attract
Thy love, not thy subjection; and her gifts
Were such, as under government well seemed;
Unseemly to bear rule; which was thy part
And person, hadst thou known thyself aright.
So having said, he thus to Eve in few.
Say, Woman, what is this which thou hast done?
To whom sad Eve, with shame nigh overwhelmed,
Confessing soon, yet not before her Judge
Bold or loquacious, thus abashed replied.
The Serpent me beguiled, and I did eat.
Which when the Lord God heard, without delay
To judgement he proceeded on the accused
Serpent, though brute; unable to transfer
The guilt on him, who made him instrument
Of mischief, and polluted from the end
Of his creation; justly then accursed,
As vitiated in nature:  More to know
Concerned not Man, (since he no further knew)
Nor altered his offence; yet God at last
To Satan first in sin his doom applied,
Though in mysterious terms, judged as then best:
And on the Serpent thus his curse let fall.
Because thou hast done this, thou art accursed
Above all cattle, each beast of the field;
Upon thy belly groveling thou shalt go,
And dust shalt eat all the days of thy life.
Between thee and the woman I will put
Enmity, and between thine and her seed;
Her seed shall bruise thy head, thou bruise his heel.
So spake this oracle, then verified
When Jesus, Son of Mary, second Eve,
Saw Satan fall, like lightning, down from Heaven,
Prince of the air; then, rising from his grave
Spoiled Principalities and Powers, triumphed
In open show; and, with ascension bright,
Captivity led captive through the air,
The realm itself of Satan, long usurped;
Whom he shall tread at last under our feet;
Even he, who now foretold his fatal bruise;
And to the Woman thus his sentence turned.
Thy sorrow I will greatly multiply
By thy conception; children thou shalt bring
In sorrow forth; and to thy husband's will
Thine shall submit; he over thee shall rule.
On Adam last thus judgement he pronounced.
Because thou hast hearkened to the voice of thy wife,
And eaten of the tree, concerning which
I charged thee, saying, Thou shalt not eat thereof:
Cursed is the ground for thy sake; thou in sorrow
Shalt eat thereof, all the days of thy life;
Thorns also and thistles it shall bring thee forth
Unbid; and thou shalt eat the herb of the field;
In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread,
Till thou return unto the ground; for thou
Out of the ground wast taken, know thy birth,
For dust thou art, and shalt to dust return.
So judged he Man, both Judge and Saviour sent;
And the instant stroke of death, denounced that day,
Removed far off; then, pitying how they stood
Before him naked to the air, that now
Must suffer change, disdained not to begin
Thenceforth the form of servant to assume;
As when he washed his servants feet; so now,
As father of his family, he clad
Their nakedness with skins of beasts, or slain,
Or as the snake with youthful coat repaid;
And thought not much to clothe his enemies;
Nor he their outward only with the skins
Of beasts, but inward nakedness, much more.
Opprobrious, with his robe of righteousness,
Arraying, covered from his Father's sight.
To him with swift ascent he up returned,
Into his blissful bosom reassumed
In glory, as of old; to him appeased
All, though all-knowing, what had passed with Man
Recounted, mixing intercession sweet.
Mean while, ere thus was sinned and judged on Earth,
Within the gates of Hell sat Sin and Death,
In counterview within the gates, that now
Stood open wide, belching outrageous flame
Far into Chaos, since the Fiend passed through,
Sin opening; who thus now to Death began.
O Son, why sit we here each other viewing
Idly, while Satan, our great author, thrives
In other worlds, and happier seat provides
For us, his offspring dear?  It cannot be
But that success attends him; if mishap,
Ere this he had returned, with fury driven
By his avengers; since no place like this
Can fit his punishment, or their revenge.
Methinks I feel new strength within me rise,
Wings growing, and dominion given me large
Beyond this deep; whatever draws me on,
Or sympathy, or some connatural force,
Powerful at greatest distance to unite,
With secret amity, things of like kind,
By secretest conveyance.  Thou, my shade
Inseparable, must with me along;
For Death from Sin no power can separate.
But, lest the difficulty of passing back
Stay his return perhaps over this gulf
Impassable, impervious; let us try
Adventurous work, yet to thy power and mine
Not unagreeable, to found a path
Over this main from Hell to that new world,
Where Satan now prevails; a monument
Of merit high to all the infernal host,
Easing their passage hence, for intercourse,
Or transmigration, as their lot shall lead.
Nor can I miss the way, so strongly drawn
By this new-felt attraction and instinct.
Whom thus the meager Shadow answered soon.
Go, whither Fate, and inclination strong,
Leads thee; I shall not lag behind, nor err
The way, thou leading; such a scent I draw
Of carnage, prey innumerable, and taste
The savour of death from all things there that live:
Nor shall I to the work thou enterprisest
Be wanting, but afford thee equal aid.
So saying, with delight he snuffed the smell
Of mortal change on earth.  As when a flock
Of ravenous fowl, though many a league remote,
Against the day of battle, to a field,
Where armies lie encamped, come flying, lured
With scent of living carcasses designed
For death, the following day, in bloody fight:
So scented the grim Feature, and upturned
His nostril wide into the murky air;
Sagacious of his quarry from so far.
Then both from out Hell-gates, into the waste
Wide anarchy of Chaos, damp and dark,
Flew diverse; and with power (their power was great)
Hovering upon the waters, what they met
Solid or slimy, as in raging sea
Tost up and down, together crouded drove,
From each side shoaling towards the mouth of Hell;
As when two polar winds, blowing adverse
Upon the Cronian sea, together drive
Mountains of ice, that stop the imagined way
Beyond Petsora eastward, to the rich
Cathaian coast.  The aggregated soil
Death with his mace petrifick, cold and dry,
As with a trident, smote; and fixed as firm
As Delos, floating once; the rest his look
Bound with Gorgonian rigour not to move;
And with Asphaltick slime, broad as the gate,
Deep to the roots of Hell the gathered beach
They fastened, and the mole immense wrought on
Over the foaming deep high-arched, a bridge
Of length prodigious, joining to the wall
Immoveable of this now fenceless world,
Forfeit to Death; from hence a passage broad,
Smooth, easy, inoffensive, down to Hell.
So, if great things to small may be compared,
Xerxes, the liberty of Greece to yoke,
From Susa, his Memnonian palace high,
Came to the sea: and, over Hellespont
Bridging his way, Europe with Asia joined,
And scourged with many a stroke the indignant waves.
Now had they brought the work by wonderous art
Pontifical, a ridge of pendant rock,
Over the vexed abyss, following the track
Of Satan to the self-same place where he
First lighted from his wing, and landed safe
From out of Chaos, to the outside bare
Of this round world:  With pins of adamant
And chains they made all fast, too fast they made
And durable!  And now in little space
The confines met of empyrean Heaven,
And of this World; and, on the left hand, Hell
With long reach interposed; three several ways
In sight, to each of these three places led.
And now their way to Earth they had descried,
To Paradise first tending; when, behold!
Satan, in likeness of an Angel bright,
Betwixt the Centaur and the Scorpion steering
His zenith, while the sun in Aries rose:
Disguised he came; but those his children dear
Their parent soon discerned, though in disguise.
He, after Eve seduced, unminded slunk
Into the wood fast by; and, changing shape,
To observe the sequel, saw his guileful act
By Eve, though all unweeting, seconded
Upon her husband; saw their shame that sought
Vain covertures; but when he saw descend
The Son of God to judge them, terrified
He fled; not hoping to escape, but shun
The present; fearing, guilty, what his wrath
Might suddenly inflict; that past, returned
By night, and listening where the hapless pair
Sat in their sad discourse, and various plaint,
Thence gathered his own doom; which understood
Not instant, but of future time, with joy
And tidings fraught, to Hell he now returned;
And at the brink of Chaos, near the foot
Of this new wonderous pontifice, unhoped
Met, who to meet him came, his offspring dear.
Great joy was at their meeting, and at sight
Of that stupendious bridge his joy encreased.
Long he admiring stood, till Sin, his fair
Enchanting daughter, thus the silence broke.
O Parent, these are thy magnifick deeds,
Thy trophies! which thou viewest as not thine own;
Thou art their author, and prime architect:
For I no sooner in my heart divined,
My heart, which by a secret harmony
Still moves with thine, joined in connexion sweet,
That thou on earth hadst prospered, which thy looks
Now also evidence, but straight I felt,
Though distant from thee worlds between, yet felt,
That I must after thee, with this thy son;
Such fatal consequence unites us three!
Hell could no longer hold us in our bounds,
Nor this unvoyageable gulf obscure
Detain from following thy illustrious track.
Thou hast achieved our liberty, confined
Within Hell-gates till now; thou us impowered
To fortify thus far, and overlay,
With this portentous bridge, the dark abyss.
Thine now is all this world; thy virtue hath won
What thy hands builded not; thy wisdom gained
With odds what war hath lost, and fully avenged
Our foil in Heaven; here thou shalt monarch reign,
There didst not; there let him still victor sway,
As battle hath adjudged; from this new world
Retiring, by his own doom alienated;
And henceforth monarchy with thee divide
Of all things, parted by the empyreal bounds,
His quadrature, from thy orbicular world;
Or try thee now more dangerous to his throne.
Whom thus the Prince of darkness answered glad.
Fair Daughter, and thou Son and Grandchild both;
High proof ye now have given to be the race
Of Satan (for I glory in the name,
Antagonist of Heaven's Almighty King,)
Amply have merited of me, of all
The infernal empire, that so near Heaven's door
Triumphal with triumphal act have met,
Mine, with this glorious work; and made one realm,
Hell and this world, one realm, one continent
Of easy thorough-fare.  Therefore, while I
Descend through darkness, on your road with ease,
To my associate Powers, them to acquaint
With these successes, and with them rejoice;
You two this way, among these numerous orbs,
All yours, right down to Paradise descend;
There dwell, and reign in bliss; thence on the earth
Dominion exercise and in the air,
Chiefly on Man, sole lord of all declared;
Him first make sure your thrall, and lastly kill.
My substitutes I send ye, and create
Plenipotent on earth, of matchless might
Issuing from me: on your joint vigour now
My hold of this new kingdom all depends,
Through Sin to Death exposed by my exploit.
If your joint power prevail, the affairs of Hell
No detriment need fear; go, and be strong!
So saying he dismissed them; they with speed
Their course through thickest constellations held,
Spreading their bane; the blasted stars looked wan,
And planets, planet-struck, real eclipse
Then suffered.  The other way Satan went down
The causey to Hell-gate:  On either side
Disparted Chaos overbuilt exclaimed,
And with rebounding surge the bars assailed,
That scorned his indignation:  Through the gate,
Wide open and unguarded, Satan passed,
And all about found desolate; for those,
Appointed to sit there, had left their charge,
Flown to the upper world; the rest were all
Far to the inland retired, about the walls
Of Pandemonium; city and proud seat
Of Lucifer, so by allusion called
Of that bright star to Satan paragoned;
There kept their watch the legions, while the Grand
In council sat, solicitous what chance
Might intercept their emperour sent; so he
Departing gave command, and they observed.
As when the Tartar from his Russian foe,
By Astracan, over the snowy plains,
Retires; or Bactrin Sophi, from the horns
Of Turkish crescent, leaves all waste beyond
The realm of Aladule, in his retreat
To Tauris or Casbeen:  So these, the late
Heaven-banished host, left desart utmost Hell
Many a dark league, reduced in careful watch
Round their metropolis; and now expecting
Each hour their great adventurer, from the search
Of foreign worlds:  He through the midst unmarked,
In show plebeian Angel militant
Of lowest order, passed; and from the door
Of that Plutonian hall, invisible
Ascended his high throne; which, under state
Of richest texture spread, at the upper end
Was placed in regal lustre.  Down a while
He sat, and round about him saw unseen:
At last, as from a cloud, his fulgent head
And shape star-bright appeared, or brighter; clad
With what permissive glory since his fall
Was left him, or false glitter:  All amazed
At that so sudden blaze the Stygian throng
Bent their aspect, and whom they wished beheld,
Their mighty Chief returned: loud was the acclaim:
Forth rushed in haste the great consulting peers,
Raised from their dark Divan, and with like joy
Congratulant approached him; who with hand
Silence, and with these words attention, won.
Thrones, Dominations, Princedoms, Virtues, Powers;
For in possession such, not only of right,
I call ye, and declare ye now; returned
Successful beyond hope, to lead ye forth
Triumphant out of this infernal pit
Abominable, accursed, the house of woe,
And dungeon of our tyrant:  Now possess,
As Lords, a spacious world, to our native Heaven
Little inferiour, by my adventure hard
With peril great achieved.  Long were to tell
What I have done; what suffered;with what pain
Voyaged th' unreal, vast, unbounded deep
Of horrible confusion; over which
By Sin and Death a broad way now is paved,
To expedite your glorious march; but I
Toiled out my uncouth passage, forced to ride
The untractable abyss, plunged in the womb
Of unoriginal Night and Chaos wild;
That, jealous of their secrets, fiercely opposed
My journey strange, with clamorous uproar
Protesting Fate supreme; thence how I found
The new created world, which fame in Heaven
Long had foretold, a fabrick wonderful
Of absolute perfection! therein Man
Placed in a Paradise, by our exile
Made happy:  Him by fraud I have seduced
From his Creator; and, the more to encrease
Your wonder, with an apple; he, thereat
Offended, worth your laughter! hath given up
Both his beloved Man, and all his world,
To Sin and Death a prey, and so to us,
Without our hazard, labour, or alarm;
To range in, and to dwell, and over Man
To rule, as over all he should have ruled.
True is, me also he hath judged, or rather
Me not, but the brute serpent in whose shape
Man I deceived: that which to me belongs,
Is enmity which he will put between
Me and mankind; I am to bruise his heel;
His seed, when is not set, shall bruise my head:
A world who would not purchase with a bruise,
Or much more grievous pain?--Ye have the account
Of my performance:  What remains, ye Gods,
But up, and enter now into full bliss?
So having said, a while he stood, expecting
Their universal shout, and high applause,
To fill his ear; when, contrary, he hears
On all sides, from innumerable tongues,
A dismal universal hiss, the sound
Of publick scorn; he wondered, but not long
Had leisure, wondering at himself now more,
His visage drawn he felt to sharp and spare;
His arms clung to his ribs; his legs entwining
Each other, till supplanted down he fell
A monstrous serpent on his belly prone,
Reluctant, but in vain; a greater power
Now ruled him, punished in the shape he sinned,
According to his doom: he would have spoke,
But hiss for hiss returned with forked tongue
To forked tongue; for now were all transformed
Alike, to serpents all, as accessories
To his bold riot:  Dreadful was the din
Of hissing through the hall, thick swarming now
With complicated monsters head and tail,
Scorpion, and Asp, and Amphisbaena dire,
Cerastes horned, Hydrus, and Elops drear,
And Dipsas; (not so thick swarmed once the soil
Bedropt with blood of Gorgon, or the isle
Ophiusa,) but still greatest he the midst,
Now Dragon grown, larger than whom the sun
Ingendered in the Pythian vale or slime,
Huge Python, and his power no less he seemed
Above the rest still to retain; they all
Him followed, issuing forth to the open field,
Where all yet left of that revolted rout,
Heaven-fallen, in station stood or just array;
Sublime with expectation when to see
In triumph issuing forth their glorious Chief;
They saw, but other sight instead! a croud
Of ugly serpents; horrour on them fell,
And horrid sympathy; for, what they saw,
They felt themselves, now changing; down their arms,
Down fell both spear and shield; down they as fast;
And the dire hiss renewed, and the dire form
Catched, by contagion; like in punishment,
As in their crime.  Thus was the applause they meant,
Turned to exploding hiss, triumph to shame
Cast on themselves from their own mouths.  There stood
A grove hard by, sprung up with this their change,
His will who reigns above, to aggravate
Their penance, laden with fair fruit, like that
Which grew in Paradise, the bait of Eve
Used by the Tempter: on that prospect strange
Their earnest eyes they fixed, imagining
For one forbidden tree a multitude
Now risen, to work them further woe or shame;
Yet, parched with scalding thirst and hunger fierce,
Though to delude them sent, could not abstain;
But on they rolled in heaps, and, up the trees
Climbing, sat thicker than the snaky locks
That curled Megaera: greedily they plucked
The fruitage fair to sight, like that which grew
Near that bituminous lake where Sodom flamed;
This more delusive, not the touch, but taste
Deceived; they, fondly thinking to allay
Their appetite with gust, instead of fruit
Chewed bitter ashes, which the offended taste
With spattering noise rejected: oft they assayed,
Hunger and thirst constraining; drugged as oft,
With hatefullest disrelish writhed their jaws,
With soot and cinders filled; so oft they fell
Into the same illusion, not as Man
Whom they triumphed once lapsed.  Thus were they plagued
And worn with famine, long and ceaseless hiss,
Till their lost shape, permitted, they resumed;
Yearly enjoined, some say, to undergo,
This annual humbling certain numbered days,
To dash their pride, and joy, for Man seduced.
However, some tradition they dispersed
Among the Heathen, of their purchase got,
And fabled how the Serpent, whom they called
Ophion, with Eurynome, the wide--
Encroaching Eve perhaps, had first the rule
Of high Olympus; thence by Saturn driven
And Ops, ere yet Dictaean Jove was born.
Mean while in Paradise the hellish pair
Too soon arrived; Sin, there in power before,
Once actual; now in body, and to dwell
Habitual habitant; behind her Death,
Close following pace for pace, not mounted yet
On his pale horse: to whom Sin thus began.
Second of Satan sprung, all-conquering Death!
What thinkest thou of our empire now, though earned
With travel difficult, not better far
Than still at Hell's dark threshold to have sat watch,
Unnamed, undreaded, and thyself half starved?
Whom thus the Sin-born monster answered soon.
To me, who with eternal famine pine,
Alike is Hell, or Paradise, or Heaven;
There best, where most with ravine I may meet;
Which here, though plenteous, all too little seems
To stuff this maw, this vast unhide-bound corps.
To whom the incestuous mother thus replied.
Thou therefore on these herbs, and fruits, and flowers,
Feed first; on each beast next, and fish, and fowl;
No homely morsels! and, whatever thing
The sithe of Time mows down, devour unspared;
Till I, in Man residing, through the race,
His thoughts, his looks, words, actions, all infect;
And season him thy last and sweetest prey.
This said, they both betook them several ways,
Both to destroy, or unimmortal make
All kinds, and for destruction to mature
Sooner or later; which the Almighty seeing,
From his transcendent seat the Saints among,
To those bright Orders uttered thus his voice.
See, with what heat these dogs of Hell advance
To waste and havock yonder world, which I
So fair and good created; and had still
Kept in that state, had not the folly of Man
Let in these wasteful furies, who impute
Folly to me; so doth the Prince of Hell
And his adherents, that with so much ease
I suffer them to enter and possess
A place so heavenly; and, conniving, seem
To gratify my scornful enemies,
That laugh, as if, transported with some fit
Of passion, I to them had quitted all,
At random yielded up to their misrule;
And know not that I called, and drew them thither,
My Hell-hounds, to lick up the draff and filth
Which Man's polluting sin with taint hath shed
On what was pure; til, crammed and gorged, nigh burst
With sucked and glutted offal, at one sling
Of thy victorious arm, well-pleasing Son,
Both Sin, and Death, and yawning Grave, at last,
Through Chaos hurled, obstruct the mouth of Hell
For ever, and seal up his ravenous jaws.
Then Heaven and Earth renewed shall be made pure
To sanctity, that shall receive no stain:
Till then, the curse pronounced on both precedes.
He ended, and the heavenly audience loud
Sung Halleluiah, as the sound of seas,
Through multitude that sung:  Just are thy ways,
Righteous are thy decrees on all thy works;
Who can extenuate thee?  Next, to the Son,
Destined Restorer of mankind, by whom
New Heaven and Earth shall to the ages rise,
Or down from Heaven descend.--Such was their song;
While the Creator, calling forth by name
His mighty Angels, gave them several charge,
As sorted best with present things.  The sun
Had first his precept so to move, so shine,
As might affect the earth with cold and heat
Scarce tolerable; and from the north to call
Decrepit winter; from the south to bring
Solstitial summer's heat.  To the blanc moon
Her office they prescribed; to the other five
Their planetary motions, and aspects,
In sextile, square, and trine, and opposite,
Of noxious efficacy, and when to join
In synod unbenign; and taught the fixed
Their influence malignant when to shower,
Which of them rising with the sun, or falling,
Should prove tempestuous:  To the winds they set
Their corners, when with bluster to confound
Sea, air, and shore; the thunder when to roll
With terrour through the dark aereal hall.
Some say, he bid his Angels turn ascanse
The poles of earth, twice ten degrees and more,
From the sun's axle; they with labour pushed
Oblique the centrick globe:  Some say, the sun
Was bid turn reins from the equinoctial road
Like distant breadth to Taurus with the seven
Atlantick Sisters, and the Spartan Twins,
Up to the Tropick Crab: thence down amain
By Leo, and the Virgin, and the Scales,
As deep as Capricorn; to bring in change
Of seasons to each clime; else had the spring
Perpetual smiled on earth with vernant flowers,
Equal in days and nights, except to those
Beyond the polar circles; to them day
Had unbenighted shone, while the low sun,
To recompense his distance, in their sight
Had rounded still the horizon, and not known
Or east or west; which had forbid the snow
From cold Estotiland, and south as far
Beneath Magellan.  At that tasted fruit
The sun, as from Thyestean banquet, turned
His course intended; else, how had the world
Inhabited, though sinless, more than now,
Avoided pinching cold and scorching heat?
These changes in the Heavens, though slow, produced
Like change on sea and land; sideral blast,
Vapour, and mist, and exhalation hot,
Corrupt and pestilent:  Now from the north
Of Norumbega, and the Samoed shore,
Bursting their brazen dungeon, armed with ice,
And snow, and hail, and stormy gust and flaw,
Boreas, and Caecias, and Argestes loud,
And Thrascias, rend the woods, and seas upturn;
With adverse blast upturns them from the south
Notus, and Afer black with thunderous clouds
From Serraliona; thwart of these, as fierce,
Forth rush the Levant and the Ponent winds,
Eurus and Zephyr, with their lateral noise,
Sirocco and Libecchio.  Thus began
Outrage from lifeless things; but Discord first,
Daughter of Sin, among the irrational
Death introduced, through fierce antipathy:
Beast now with beast 'gan war, and fowl with fowl,
And fish with fish; to graze the herb all leaving,
Devoured each other; nor stood much in awe
Of Man, but fled him; or, with countenance grim,
Glared on him passing.  These were from without
The growing miseries, which Adam saw
Already in part, though hid in gloomiest shade,
To sorrow abandoned, but worse felt within;
And, in a troubled sea of passion tost,
Thus to disburden sought with sad complaint.
O miserable of happy!  Is this the end
Of this new glorious world, and me so late
The glory of that glory, who now become
Accursed, of blessed? hide me from the face
Of God, whom to behold was then my highth
Of happiness!--Yet well, if here would end
The misery; I deserved it, and would bear
My own deservings; but this will not serve:
All that I eat or drink, or shall beget,
Is propagated curse.  O voice, once heard
Delightfully, Encrease and multiply;
Now death to hear! for what can I encrease,
Or multiply, but curses on my head?
Who of all ages to succeed, but, feeling
The evil on him brought by me, will curse
My head?  Ill fare our ancestor impure,
For this we may thank Adam! but his thanks
Shall be the execration: so, besides
Mine own that bide upon me, all from me
Shall with a fierce reflux on me rebound;
On me, as on their natural center, light
Heavy, though in their place.  O fleeting joys
Of Paradise, dear bought with lasting woes!
Did I request thee, Maker, from my clay
To mould me Man? did I solicit thee
From darkness to promote me, or here place
In this delicious garden?  As my will
Concurred not to my being, it were but right
And equal to reduce me to my dust;
Desirous to resign and render back
All I received; unable to perform
Thy terms too hard, by which I was to hold
The good I sought not.  To the loss of that,
Sufficient penalty, why hast thou added
The sense of endless woes?  Inexplicable
Why am I mocked with death, and lengthened out
To deathless pain?  How gladly would I meet
Mortality my sentence, and be earth
Insensible!  How glad would lay me down
As in my mother's lap!  There I should rest,
And sleep secure; his dreadful voice no more
Would thunder in my ears; no fear of worse
To me, and to my offspring, would torment me
With cruel expectation.  Yet one doubt
Pursues me still, lest all I cannot die;
Lest that pure breath of life, the spirit of Man
Which God inspired, cannot together perish
With this corporeal clod; then, in the grave,
Or in some other dismal place, who knows
But I shall die a living death?  O thought
Horrid, if true!  Yet why? It was but breath
Of life that sinned; what dies but what had life
And sin?  The body properly had neither,
All of me then shall die: let this appease
The doubt, since human reach no further knows.
For though the Lord of all be infinite,
Is his wrath also?  Be it, Man is not so,
But mortal doomed.  How can he exercise
Wrath without end on Man, whom death must end?
Can he make deathless death?  That were to make
Strange contradiction, which to God himself
Impossible is held; as argument
Of weakness, not of power.  Will he draw out,
For anger's sake, finite to infinite,
In punished Man, to satisfy his rigour,
Satisfied never?  That were to extend
His sentence beyond dust and Nature's law;
By which all causes else, according still
To the reception of their matter, act;
Not to the extent of their own sphere.  But say
That death be not one stroke, as I supposed,
Bereaving sense, but endless misery
From this day onward; which I feel begun
Both in me, and without me; and so last
To perpetuity;--Ay me!that fear
Comes thundering back with dreadful revolution
On my defenceless head; both Death and I
Am found eternal, and incorporate both;
Nor I on my part single; in me all
Posterity stands cursed:  Fair patrimony
That I must leave ye, Sons!  O, were I able
To waste it all myself, and leave ye none!
So disinherited, how would you bless
Me, now your curse!  Ah, why should all mankind,
For one man's fault, thus guiltless be condemned,
It guiltless?  But from me what can proceed,
But all corrupt; both mind and will depraved
Not to do only, but to will the same
With me?  How can they then acquitted stand
In sight of God?  Him, after all disputes,
Forced I absolve: all my evasions vain,
And reasonings, though through mazes, lead me still
But to my own conviction: first and last
On me, me only, as the source and spring
Of all corruption, all the blame lights due;
So might the wrath!  Fond wish!couldst thou support
That burden, heavier than the earth to bear;
Than all the world much heavier, though divided
With that bad Woman?  Thus, what thou desirest,
And what thou fearest, alike destroys all hope
Of refuge, and concludes thee miserable
Beyond all past example and future;
To Satan only like both crime and doom.
O Conscience! into what abyss of fears
And horrours hast thou driven me; out of which
I find no way, from deep to deeper plunged!
Thus Adam to himself lamented loud,
Through the still night; not now, as ere Man fell,
Wholesome, and cool, and mild, but with black air
Accompanied; with damps, and dreadful gloom;
Which to his evil conscience represented
All things with double terrour:  On the ground
Outstretched he lay, on the cold ground; and oft
Cursed his creation;  Death as oft accused
Of tardy execution, since denounced
The day of his offence.  Why comes not Death,
Said he, with one thrice-acceptable stroke
To end me?  Shall Truth fail to keep her word,
Justice Divine not hasten to be just?
But Death comes not at call; Justice Divine
Mends not her slowest pace for prayers or cries,
O woods, O fountains, hillocks, dales, and bowers!
With other echo late I taught your shades
To answer, and resound far other song.--
Whom thus afflicted when sad Eve beheld,
Desolate where she sat, approaching nigh,
Soft words to his fierce passion she assayed:
But her with stern regard he thus repelled.
Out of my sight, thou Serpent!  That name best
Befits thee with him leagued, thyself as false
And hateful; nothing wants, but that thy shape,
Like his, and colour serpentine, may show
Thy inward fraud; to warn all creatures from thee
Henceforth; lest that too heavenly form, pretended
To hellish falshood, snare them!  But for thee
I had persisted happy; had not thy pride
And wandering vanity, when least was safe,
Rejected my forewarning, and disdained
Not to be trusted; longing to be seen,
Though by the Devil himself; him overweening
To over-reach; but, with the serpent meeting,
Fooled and beguiled; by him thou, I by thee
To trust thee from my side; imagined wise,
Constant, mature, proof against all assaults;
And understood not all was but a show,
Rather than solid virtue; all but a rib
Crooked by nature, bent, as now appears,
More to the part sinister, from me drawn;
Well if thrown out, as supernumerary
To my just number found.  O! why did God,
Creator wise, that peopled highest Heaven
With Spirits masculine, create at last
This novelty on earth, this fair defect
Of nature, and not fill the world at once
With Men, as Angels, without feminine;
Or find some other way to generate
Mankind?  This mischief had not been befallen,
And more that shall befall; innumerable
Disturbances on earth through female snares,
And strait conjunction with this sex: for either
He never shall find out fit mate, but such
As some misfortune brings him, or mistake;
Or whom he wishes most shall seldom gain
Through her perverseness, but shall see her gained
By a far worse; or, if she love, withheld
By parents; or his happiest choice too late
Shall meet, already linked and wedlock-bound
To a fell adversary, his hate or shame:
Which infinite calamity shall cause
To human life, and houshold peace confound.
He added not, and from her turned; but Eve,
Not so repulsed, with tears that ceased not flowing
And tresses all disordered, at his feet
Fell humble; and, embracing them, besought
His peace, and thus proceeded in her plaint.
Forsake me not thus, Adam! witness Heaven
What love sincere, and reverence in my heart
I bear thee, and unweeting have offended,
Unhappily deceived!  Thy suppliant
I beg, and clasp thy knees; bereave me not,
Whereon I live, thy gentle looks, thy aid,
Thy counsel, in this uttermost distress,
My only strength and stay:  Forlorn of thee,
Whither shall I betake me, where subsist?
While yet we live, scarce one short hour perhaps,
Between us two let there be peace; both joining,
As joined in injuries, one enmity
Against a foe by doom express assigned us,
That cruel Serpent:  On me exercise not
Thy hatred for this misery befallen;
On me already lost, me than thyself
More miserable!  Both have sinned;but thou
Against God only; I against God and thee;
And to the place of judgement will return,
There with my cries importune Heaven; that all
The sentence, from thy head removed, may light
On me, sole cause to thee of all this woe;
Me, me only, just object of his ire!
She ended weeping; and her lowly plight,
Immoveable, till peace obtained from fault
Acknowledged and deplored, in Adam wrought
Commiseration:  Soon his heart relented
Towards her, his life so late, and sole delight,
Now at his feet submissive in distress;
Creature so fair his reconcilement seeking,
His counsel, whom she had displeased, his aid:
As one disarmed, his anger all he lost,
And thus with peaceful words upraised her soon.
Unwary, and too desirous, as before,
So now of what thou knowest not, who desirest
The punishment all on thyself; alas!
Bear thine own first, ill able to sustain
His full wrath, whose thou feelest as yet least part,
And my displeasure bearest so ill.  If prayers
Could alter high decrees, I to that place
Would speed before thee, and be louder heard,
That on my head all might be visited;
Thy frailty and infirmer sex forgiven,
To me committed, and by me exposed.
But rise;--let us no more contend, nor blame
Each other, blamed enough elsewhere; but strive
In offices of love, how we may lighten
Each other's burden, in our share of woe;
Since this day's death denounced, if aught I see,
Will prove no sudden, but a slow-paced evil;
A long day's dying, to augment our pain;
And to our seed (O hapless seed!) derived.
To whom thus Eve, recovering heart, replied.
Adam, by sad experiment I know
How little weight my words with thee can find,
Found so erroneous; thence by just event
Found so unfortunate:  Nevertheless,
Restored by thee, vile as I am, to place
Of new acceptance, hopeful to regain
Thy love, the sole contentment of my heart
Living or dying, from thee I will not hide
What thoughts in my unquiet breast are risen,
Tending to some relief of our extremes,
Or end; though sharp and sad, yet tolerable,
As in our evils, and of easier choice.
If care of our descent perplex us most,
Which must be born to certain woe, devoured
By Death at last; and miserable it is
To be to others cause of misery,
Our own begotten, and of our loins to bring
Into this cursed world a woeful race,
That after wretched life must be at last
Food for so foul a monster; in thy power
It lies, yet ere conception to prevent
The race unblest, to being yet unbegot.
Childless thou art, childless remain: so Death
Shall be deceived his glut, and with us two
Be forced to satisfy his ravenous maw.
But if thou judge it hard and difficult,
Conversing, looking, loving, to abstain
From love's due rights, nuptial embraces sweet;
And with desire to languish without hope,
Before the present object languishing
With like desire; which would be misery
And torment less than none of what we dread;
Then, both ourselves and seed at once to free
From what we fear for both, let us make short, --
Let us seek Death; -- or, he not found, supply
With our own hands his office on ourselves:
Why stand we longer shivering under fears,
That show no end but death, and have the power,
Of many ways to die the shortest choosing,
Destruction with destruction to destroy? --
She ended here, or vehement despair
Broke off the rest: so much of death her thoughts
Had entertained, as dyed her cheeks with pale.
But Adam, with such counsel nothing swayed,
To better hopes his more attentive mind
Labouring had raised; and thus to Eve replied.
Eve, thy contempt of life and pleasure seems
To argue in thee something more sublime
And excellent, than what thy mind contemns;
But self-destruction therefore sought, refutes
That excellence thought in thee; and implies,
Not thy contempt, but anguish and regret
For loss of life and pleasure overloved.
Or if thou covet death, as utmost end
Of misery, so thinking to evade
The penalty pronounced; doubt not but God
Hath wiselier armed his vengeful ire, than so
To be forestalled; much more I fear lest death,
So snatched, will not exempt us from the pain
We are by doom to pay; rather, such acts
Of contumacy will provoke the Highest
To make death in us live:  Then let us seek
Some safer resolution, which methinks
I have in view, calling to mind with heed
Part of our sentence, that thy seed shall bruise
The Serpent's head; piteous amends! unless
Be meant, whom I conjecture, our grand foe,
Satan; who, in the serpent, hath contrived
Against us this deceit:  To crush his head
Would be revenge indeed! which will be lost
By death brought on ourselves, or childless days
Resolved, as thou proposest; so our foe
Shal 'scape his punishment ordained, and we
Instead shall double ours upon our heads.
No more be mentioned then of violence
Against ourselves; and wilful barrenness,
That cuts us off from hope; and savours only
Rancour and pride, impatience and despite,
Reluctance against God and his just yoke
Laid on our necks.  Remember with what mild
And gracious temper he both heard, and judged,
Without wrath or reviling; we expected
Immediate dissolution, which we thought
Was meant by death that day; when lo!to thee
Pains only in child-bearing were foretold,
And bringing forth; soon recompensed with joy,
Fruit of thy womb:  On me the curse aslope
Glanced on the ground; with labour I must earn
My bread; what harm? Idleness had been worse;
My labour will sustain me; and, lest cold
Or heat should injure us, his timely care
Hath, unbesought, provided; and his hands
Clothed us unworthy, pitying while he judged;
How much more, if we pray him, will his ear
Be open, and his heart to pity incline,
And teach us further by what means to shun
The inclement seasons, rain, ice, hail, and snow!
Which now the sky, with various face, begins
To show us in this mountain; while the winds
Blow moist and keen, shattering the graceful locks
Of these fair spreading trees; which bids us seek
Some better shroud, some better warmth to cherish
Our limbs benummed, ere this diurnal star
Leave cold the night, how we his gathered beams
Reflected may with matter sere foment;
Or, by collision of two bodies, grind
The air attrite to fire; as late the clouds
Justling, or pushed with winds, rude in their shock,
Tine the slant lightning; whose thwart flame, driven down
Kindles the gummy bark of fir or pine;
And sends a comfortable heat from far,
Which might supply the sun:  Such fire to use,
And what may else be remedy or cure
To evils which our own misdeeds have wrought,
He will instruct us praying, and of grace
Beseeching him; so as we need not fear
To pass commodiously this life, sustained
By him with many comforts, till we end
In dust, our final rest and native home.
What better can we do, than, to the place
Repairing where he judged us, prostrate fall
Before him reverent; and there confess
Humbly our faults, and pardon beg; with tears
Watering the ground, and with our sighs the air
Frequenting, sent from hearts contrite, in sign
Of sorrow unfeigned, and humiliation meek



Book XI


Undoubtedly he will relent, and turn
From his displeasure; in whose look serene,
When angry most he seemed and most severe,
What else but favour, grace, and mercy, shone?
So spake our father penitent; nor Eve
Felt less remorse: they, forthwith to the place
Repairing where he judged them, prostrate fell
Before him reverent; and both confessed
Humbly their faults, and pardon begged; with tears
Watering the ground, and with their sighs the air
Frequenting, sent from hearts contrite, in sign
Of sorrow unfeigned, and humiliation meek.
Thus they, in lowliest plight, repentant stood
Praying; for from the mercy-seat above
Prevenient grace descending had removed
The stony from their hearts, and made new flesh
Regenerate grow instead; that sighs now breathed
Unutterable; which the Spirit of prayer
Inspired, and winged for Heaven with speedier flight
Than loudest oratory:  Yet their port
Not of mean suitors; nor important less
Seemed their petition, than when the ancient pair
In fables old, less ancient yet than these,
Deucalion and chaste Pyrrha, to restore
The race of mankind drowned, before the shrine
Of Themis stood devout.  To Heaven their prayers
Flew up, nor missed the way, by envious winds
Blown vagabond or frustrate: in they passed
Dimensionless through heavenly doors; then clad
With incense, where the golden altar fumed,
By their great intercessour, came in sight
Before the Father's throne: them the glad Son
Presenting, thus to intercede began.
See$ Father, what first-fruits on earth are sprung
From thy implanted grace in Man; these sighs
And prayers, which in this golden censer mixed
With incense, I thy priest before thee bring;
Fruits of more pleasing savour, from thy seed
Sown with contrition in his heart, than those
Which, his own hand manuring, all the trees
Of Paradise could have produced, ere fallen
From innocence.  Now therefore, bend thine ear
To supplication; hear his sighs, though mute;
Unskilful with what words to pray, let me
Interpret for him; me, his advocate
And propitiation; all his works on me,
Good, or not good, ingraft; my merit those
Shall perfect, and for these my death shall pay.
Accept me; and, in me, from these receive
The smell of peace toward mankind: let him live
Before thee reconciled, at least his days
Numbered, though sad; till death, his doom, (which I
To mitigate thus plead, not to reverse,)
To better life shall yield him: where with me
All my redeemed may dwell in joy and bliss;
Made one with me, as I with thee am one.
To whom the Father, without cloud, serene.
All thy request for Man, accepted Son,
Obtain; all thy request was my decree:
But, longer in that Paradise to dwell,
The law I gave to Nature him forbids:
Those pure immortal elements, that know,
No gross, no unharmonious mixture foul,
Eject him, tainted now; and purge him off,
As a distemper, gross, to air as gross,
And mortal food; as may dispose him best
For dissolution wrought by sin, that first
Distempered all things, and of incorrupt
Corrupted.  I, at first, with two fair gifts
Created him endowed; with happiness,
And immortality: that fondly lost,
This other served but to eternize woe;
Till I provided death: so death becomes
His final remedy; and, after life,
Tried in sharp tribulation, and refined
By faith and faithful works, to second life,
Waked in the renovation of the just,
Resigns him up with Heaven and Earth renewed.
But let us call to synod all the Blest,
Through Heaven's wide bounds: from them I will not hide
My judgements; how with mankind I proceed,
As how with peccant Angels late they saw,
And in their state, though firm, stood more confirmed.
He ended, and the Son gave signal high
To the bright minister that watched; he blew
His trumpet, heard in Oreb since perhaps
When God descended, and perhaps once more
To sound at general doom.  The angelick blast
Filled all the regions: from their blisful bowers
Of amarantine shade, fountain or spring,
By the waters of life, where'er they sat
In fellowships of joy, the sons of light
Hasted, resorting to the summons high;
And took their seats; till from his throne supreme
The Almighty thus pronounced his sovran will.
O Sons, like one of us Man is become
To know both good and evil, since his taste
Of that defended fruit; but let him boast
His knowledge of good lost, and evil got;
Happier! had it sufficed him to have known
Good by itself, and evil not at all.
He sorrows now, repents, and prays contrite,
My motions in him; longer than they move,
His heart I know, how variable and vain,
Self-left.  Lest therefore his now bolder hand
Reach also of the tree of life, and eat,
And live for ever, dream at least to live
For ever, to remove him I decree,
And send him from the garden forth to till
The ground whence he was taken, fitter soil.
Michael, this my behest have thou in charge;
Take to thee from among the Cherubim
Thy choice of flaming warriours, lest the Fiend,
Or in behalf of Man, or to invade
Vacant possession, some new trouble raise:
Haste thee, and from the Paradise of God
Without remorse drive out the sinful pair;
From hallowed ground the unholy; and denounce
To them, and to their progeny, from thence
Perpetual banishment.  Yet, lest they faint
At the sad sentence rigorously urged,
(For I behold them softened, and with tears
Bewailing their excess,) all terrour hide.
If patiently thy bidding they obey,
Dismiss them not disconsolate; reveal
To Adam what shall come in future days,
As I shall thee enlighten; intermix
My covenant in the Woman's seed renewed;
So send them forth, though sorrowing, yet in peace:
And on the east side of the garden place,
Where entrance up from Eden easiest climbs,
Cherubick watch; and of a sword the flame
Wide-waving; all approach far off to fright,
And guard all passage to the tree of life:
Lest Paradise a receptacle prove
To Spirits foul, and all my trees their prey;
With whose stolen fruit Man once more to delude.
He ceased; and the arch-angelick Power prepared
For swift descent; with him the cohort bright
Of watchful Cherubim: four faces each
Had, like a double Janus; all their shape
Spangled with eyes more numerous than those
Of Argus, and more wakeful than to drouse,
Charmed with Arcadian pipe, the pastoral reed
Of Hermes, or his opiate rod.  Mean while,
To re-salute the world with sacred light,
Leucothea waked; and with fresh dews imbalmed
The earth; when Adam and first matron Eve
Had ended now their orisons, and found
Strength added from above; new hope to spring
Out of despair; joy, but with fear yet linked;
Which thus to Eve his welcome words renewed.
Eve, easily my faith admit, that all
The good which we enjoy from Heaven descends;
But, that from us aught should ascend to Heaven
So prevalent as to concern the mind
Of God high-blest, or to incline his will,
Hard to belief may seem; yet this will prayer
Or one short sigh of human breath, upborne
Even to the seat of God.  For since I sought
By prayer the offended Deity to appease;
Kneeled, and before him humbled all my heart;
Methought I saw him placable and mild,
Bending his ear; persuasion in me grew
That I was heard with favour; peace returned
Home to my breast, and to my memory
His promise, that thy seed shall bruise our foe;
Which, then not minded in dismay, yet now
Assures me that the bitterness of death
Is past, and we shall live.  Whence hail to thee,
Eve rightly called, mother of all mankind,
Mother of all things living, since by thee
Man is to live; and all things live for Man.
To whom thus Eve with sad demeanour meek.
Ill-worthy I such title should belong
To me transgressour; who, for thee ordained
A help, became thy snare; to me reproach
Rather belongs, distrust, and all dispraise:
But infinite in pardon was my Judge,
That I, who first brought death on all, am graced
The source of life; next favourable thou,
Who highly thus to entitle me vouchsaf'st,
Far other name deserving.  But the field
To labour calls us, now with sweat imposed,
Though after sleepless night; for see!the morn,
All unconcerned with our unrest, begins
Her rosy progress smiling: let us forth;
I never from thy side henceforth to stray,
Where'er our day's work lies, though now enjoined
Laborious, till day droop; while here we dwell,
What can be toilsome in these pleasant walks?
Here let us live, though in fallen state, content.
So spake, so wished much humbled Eve; but Fate
Subscribed not:  Nature first gave signs, impressed
On bird, beast, air; air suddenly eclipsed,
After short blush of morn; nigh in her sight
The bird of Jove, stooped from his aery tour,
Two birds of gayest plume before him drove;
Down from a hill the beast that reigns in woods,
First hunter then, pursued a gentle brace,
Goodliest of all the forest, hart and hind;
Direct to the eastern gate was bent their flight.
Adam observed, and with his eye the chase
Pursuing, not unmoved, to Eve thus spake.
O Eve, some further change awaits us nigh,
Which Heaven, by these mute signs in Nature, shows
Forerunners of his purpose; or to warn
Us, haply too secure, of our discharge
From penalty, because from death released
Some days: how long, and what till then our life,
Who knows? or more than this, that we are dust,
And thither must return, and be no more?
Why else this double object in our sight
Of flight pursued in the air, and o'er the ground,
One way the self-same hour? why in the east
Darkness ere day's mid-course, and morning-light
More orient in yon western cloud, that draws
O'er the blue firmament a radiant white,
And slow descends with something heavenly fraught?
He erred not; for by this the heavenly bands
Down from a sky of jasper lighted now
In Paradise, and on a hill made halt;
A glorious apparition, had not doubt
And carnal fear that day dimmed Adam's eye.
Not that more glorious, when the Angels met
Jacob in Mahanaim, where he saw
The field pavilioned with his guardians bright;
Nor that, which on the flaming mount appeared
In Dothan, covered with a camp of fire,
Against the Syrian king, who to surprise
One man, assassin-like, had levied war,
War unproclaimed.  The princely Hierarch
In their bright stand there left his Powers, to seise
Possession of the garden; he alone,
To find where Adam sheltered, took his way,
Not unperceived of Adam; who to Eve,
While the great visitant approached, thus spake.
Eve$ now expect great tidings, which perhaps
Of us will soon determine, or impose
New laws to be observed; for I descry,
From yonder blazing cloud that veils the hill,
One of the heavenly host; and, by his gait,
None of the meanest; some great Potentate
Or of the Thrones above; such majesty
Invests him coming! yet not terrible,
That I should fear; nor sociably mild,
As Raphael, that I should much confide;
But solemn and sublime; whom not to offend,
With reverence I must meet, and thou retire.
He ended: and the Arch-Angel soon drew nigh,
Not in his shape celestial, but as man
Clad to meet man; over his lucid arms
A military vest of purple flowed,
Livelier than Meliboean, or the grain
Of Sarra, worn by kings and heroes old
In time of truce; Iris had dipt the woof;
His starry helm unbuckled showed him prime
In manhood where youth ended; by his side,
As in a glistering zodiack, hung the sword,
Satan's dire dread; and in his hand the spear.
Adam bowed low; he, kingly, from his state
Inclined not, but his coming thus declared.
Adam, Heaven's high behest no preface needs:
Sufficient that thy prayers are heard; and Death,
Then due by sentence when thou didst transgress,
Defeated of his seisure many days
Given thee of grace; wherein thou mayest repent,
And one bad act with many deeds well done
Mayest cover:  Well may then thy Lord, appeased,
Redeem thee quite from Death's rapacious claim;
But longer in this Paradise to dwell
Permits not: to remove thee I am come,
And send thee from the garden forth to till
The ground whence thou wast taken, fitter soil.
He added not; for Adam at the news
Heart-struck with chilling gripe of sorrow stood,
That all his senses bound; Eve, who unseen
Yet all had heard, with audible lament
Discovered soon the place of her retire.
O unexpected stroke, worse than of Death!
Must I thus leave thee$ Paradise? thus leave
Thee, native soil! these happy walks and shades,
Fit haunt of Gods? where I had hope to spend,
Quiet though sad, the respite of that day
That must be mortal to us both.  O flowers,
That never will in other climate grow,
My early visitation, and my last
 ;t even, which I bred up with tender hand
From the first opening bud, and gave ye names!
Who now shall rear ye to the sun, or rank
Your tribes, and water from the ambrosial fount?
Thee lastly, nuptial bower! by me adorned
With what to sight or smell was sweet! from thee
How shall I part, and whither wander down
Into a lower world; to this obscure
And wild? how shall we breathe in other air
Less pure, accustomed to immortal fruits?
Whom thus the Angel interrupted mild.
Lament not, Eve, but patiently resign
What justly thou hast lost, nor set thy heart,
Thus over-fond, on that which is not thine:
Thy going is not lonely; with thee goes
Thy husband; whom to follow thou art bound;
Where he abides, think there thy native soil.
Adam, by this from the cold sudden damp
Recovering, and his scattered spirits returned,
To Michael thus his humble words addressed.
Celestial, whether among the Thrones, or named
Of them the highest; for such of shape may seem
Prince above princes! gently hast thou told
Thy message, which might else in telling wound,
And in performing end us; what besides
Of sorrow, and dejection, and despair,
Our frailty can sustain, thy tidings bring,
Departure from this happy place, our sweet
Recess, and only consolation left
Familiar to our eyes! all places else
Inhospitable appear, and desolate;
Nor knowing us, nor known:  And, if by prayer
Incessant I could hope to change the will
Of Him who all things can, I would not cease
To weary him with my assiduous cries:
But prayer against his absolute decree
No more avails than breath against the wind,
Blown stifling back on him that breathes it forth:
Therefore to his great bidding I submit.
This most afflicts me, that, departing hence,
As from his face I shall be hid, deprived
His blessed countenance:  Here I could frequent
With worship place by place where he vouchsafed
Presence Divine; and to my sons relate,
'On this mount he appeared; under this tree
'Stood visible; among these pines his voice
'I heard; here with him at this fountain talked:
So many grateful altars I would rear
Of grassy turf, and pile up every stone
Of lustre from the brook, in memory,
Or monument to ages; and theron
Offer sweet-smelling gums, and fruits, and flowers:
In yonder nether world where shall I seek
His bright appearances, or foot-step trace?
For though I fled him angry, yet recalled
To life prolonged and promised race, I now
Gladly behold though but his utmost skirts
Of glory; and far off his steps adore.
To whom thus Michael with regard benign.
Adam, thou knowest Heaven his, and all the Earth;
Not this rock only; his Omnipresence fills
Land, sea, and air, and every kind that lives,
Fomented by his virtual power and warmed:
All the earth he gave thee to possess and rule,
No despicable gift; surmise not then
His presence to these narrow bounds confined
Of Paradise, or Eden: this had been
Perhaps thy capital seat, from whence had spread
All generations; and had hither come
From all the ends of the earth, to celebrate
And reverence thee, their great progenitor.
But this pre-eminence thou hast lost, brought down
To dwell on even ground now with thy sons:
Yet doubt not but in valley, and in plain,
God is, as here; and will be found alike
Present; and of his presence many a sign
Still following thee, still compassing thee round
With goodness and paternal love, his face
Express, and of his steps the track divine.
Which that thou mayest believe, and be confirmed
Ere thou from hence depart; know, I am sent
To show thee what shall come in future days
To thee, and to thy offspring: good with bad
Expect to hear; supernal grace contending
With sinfulness of men; thereby to learn
True patience, and to temper joy with fear
And pious sorrow; equally inured
By moderation either state to bear,
Prosperous or adverse: so shalt thou lead
Safest thy life, and best prepared endure
Thy mortal passage when it comes.--Ascend
This hill; let Eve (for I have drenched her eyes)
Here sleep below; while thou to foresight wakest;
As once thou sleptst, while she to life was formed.
To whom thus Adam gratefully replied.
Ascend, I follow thee, safe Guide, the path
Thou leadest me; and to the hand of Heaven submit,
However chastening; to the evil turn
My obvious breast; arming to overcome
By suffering, and earn rest from labour won,
If so I may attain. -- So both ascend
In the visions of God.  It was a hill,
Of Paradise the highest; from whose top
The hemisphere of earth, in clearest ken,
Stretched out to the amplest reach of prospect lay.
Not higher that hill, nor wider looking round,
Whereon, for different cause, the Tempter set
Our second Adam, in the wilderness;
To show him all Earth's kingdoms, and their glory.
His eye might there command wherever stood
City of old or modern fame, the seat
Of mightiest empire, from the destined walls
Of Cambalu, seat of Cathaian Can,
And Samarchand by Oxus, Temir's throne,
To Paquin of Sinaean kings; and thence
To Agra and Lahor of great Mogul,
Down to the golden Chersonese; or where
The Persian in Ecbatan sat, or since
In Hispahan; or where the Russian Ksar
In Mosco; or the Sultan in Bizance,
Turchestan-born; nor could his eye not ken
The empire of Negus to his utmost port
Ercoco, and the less maritim kings
Mombaza, and Quiloa, and Melind,
And Sofala, thought Ophir, to the realm
Of Congo, and Angola farthest south;
Or thence from Niger flood to Atlas mount
The kingdoms of Almansor, Fez and Sus,
Morocco, and Algiers, and Tremisen;
On Europe thence, and where Rome was to sway
The world: in spirit perhaps he also saw
Rich Mexico, the seat of Montezume,
And Cusco in Peru, the richer seat
Of Atabalipa; and yet unspoiled
Guiana, whose great city Geryon's sons
Call El Dorado.  But to nobler sights
Michael from Adam's eyes the film removed,
Which that false fruit that promised clearer sight
Had bred; then purged with euphrasy and rue
The visual nerve, for he had much to see;
And from the well of life three drops instilled.
So deep the power of these ingredients pierced,
Even to the inmost seat of mental sight,
That Adam, now enforced to close his eyes,
Sunk down, and all his spirits became entranced;
But him the gentle Angel by the hand
Soon raised, and his attention thus recalled.
Adam, now ope thine eyes; and first behold
The effects, which thy original crime hath wrought
In some to spring from thee; who never touched
The excepted tree; nor with the snake conspired;
Nor sinned thy sin; yet from that sin derive
Corruption, to bring forth more violent deeds.
His eyes he opened, and beheld a field,
Part arable and tilth, whereon were sheaves
New reaped; the other part sheep-walks and folds;
I' the midst an altar as the land-mark stood,
Rustick, of grassy sord; thither anon
A sweaty reaper from his tillage brought
First fruits, the green ear, and the yellow sheaf,
Unculled, as came to hand; a shepherd next,
More meek, came with the firstlings of his flock,
Choicest and best; then, sacrificing, laid
The inwards and their fat, with incense strowed,
On the cleft wood, and all due rights performed:
His offering soon propitious fire from Heaven
Consumed with nimble glance, and grateful steam;
The other's not, for his was not sincere;
Whereat he inly raged, and, as they talked,
Smote him into the midriff with a stone
That beat out life; he fell;and, deadly pale,
Groaned out his soul with gushing blood effused.
Much at that sight was Adam in his heart
Dismayed, and thus in haste to the Angel cried.
O Teacher, some great mischief hath befallen
To that meek man, who well had sacrificed;
Is piety thus and pure devotion paid?
To whom Michael thus, he also moved, replied.
These two are brethren, Adam, and to come
Out of thy loins; the unjust the just hath slain,
For envy that his brother's offering found
From Heaven acceptance; but the bloody fact
Will be avenged; and the other's faith, approved,
Lose no reward; though here thou see him die,
Rolling in dust and gore.  To which our sire.
Alas! both for the deed, and for the cause!
But have I now seen Death?  Is this the way
I must return to native dust?  O sight
Of terrour, foul and ugly to behold,
Horrid to think, how horrible to feel!
To whom thus Michael.  Death thou hast seen
In his first shape on Man; but many shapes
Of Death, and many are the ways that lead
To his grim cave, all dismal; yet to sense
More terrible at the entrance, than within.
Some, as thou sawest, by violent stroke shall die;
By fire, flood, famine, by intemperance more
In meats and drinks, which on the earth shall bring
Diseases dire, of which a monstrous crew
Before thee shall appear; that thou mayest know
What misery the inabstinence of Eve
Shall bring on Men.  Immediately a place
Before his eyes appeared, sad, noisome, dark;
A lazar-house it seemed; wherein were laid
Numbers of all diseased; all maladies
Of ghastly spasm, or racking torture, qualms
Of heart-sick agony, all feverous kinds,
Convulsions, epilepsies, fierce catarrhs,
Intestine stone and ulcer, colick-pangs,
Demoniack phrenzy, moaping melancholy,
And moon-struck madness, pining atrophy,
Marasmus, and wide-wasting pestilence,
Dropsies, and asthmas, and joint-racking rheums.
Dire was the tossing, deep the groans; Despair
Tended the sick busiest from couch to couch;
And over them triumphant Death his dart
Shook, but delayed to strike, though oft invoked
With vows, as their chief good, and final hope.
Sight so deform what heart of rock could long
Dry-eyed behold?  Adam could not, but wept,
Though not of woman born; compassion quelled
His best of man, and gave him up to tears
A space, till firmer thoughts restrained excess;
And, scarce recovering words, his plaint renewed.
O miserable mankind, to what fall
Degraded, to what wretched state reserved!
Better end here unborn.  Why is life given
To be thus wrested from us? rather, why
Obtruded on us thus? who, if we knew
What we receive, would either no accept
Life offered, or soon beg to lay it down;
Glad to be so dismissed in peace.  Can thus
The image of God in Man, created once
So goodly and erect, though faulty since,
To such unsightly sufferings be debased
Under inhuman pains?  Why should not Man,
Retaining still divine similitude
In part, from such deformities be free,
And, for his Maker's image sake, exempt?
Their Maker's image, answered Michael, then
Forsook them, when themselves they vilified
To serve ungoverned Appetite; and took
His image whom they served, a brutish vice,
Inductive mainly to the sin of Eve.
Therefore so abject is their punishment,
Disfiguring not God's likeness, but their own;
Or if his likeness, by themselves defaced;
While they pervert pure Nature's healthful rules
To loathsome sickness; worthily, since they
God's image did not reverence in themselves.
I yield it just, said Adam, and submit.
But is there yet no other way, besides
These painful passages, how we may come
To death, and mix with our connatural dust?
There is, said Michael, if thou well observe
The rule of Not too much; by temperance taught,
In what thou eatest and drinkest; seeking from thence
Due nourishment, not gluttonous delight,
Till many years over thy head return:
So mayest thou live; till, like ripe fruit, thou drop
Into thy mother's lap; or be with ease
Gathered, nor harshly plucked; for death mature:
This is Old Age; but then, thou must outlive
Thy youth, thy strength, thy beauty; which will change
To withered, weak, and gray; thy senses then,
Obtuse, all taste of pleasure must forego,
To what thou hast; and, for the air of youth,
Hopeful and cheerful, in thy blood will reign
A melancholy damp of cold and dry
To weigh thy spirits down, and last consume
The balm of life.  To whom our ancestor.
Henceforth I fly not death, nor would prolong
Life much; bent rather, how I may be quit,
Fairest and easiest, of this cumbrous charge;
Which I must keep till my appointed day
Of rendering up, and patiently attend
My dissolution.  Michael replied.
Nor love thy life, nor hate; but what thou livest
Live well; how long, or short, permit to Heaven:
And now prepare thee for another sight.
He looked, and saw a spacious plain, whereon
Were tents of various hue; by some, were herds
Of cattle grazing; others, whence the sound
Of instruments, that made melodious chime,
Was heard, of harp and organ; and, who moved
Their stops and chords, was seen; his volant touch,
Instinct through all proportions, low and high,
Fled and pursued transverse the resonant fugue.
In other part stood one who, at the forge
Labouring, two massy clods of iron and brass
Had melted, (whether found where casual fire
Had wasted woods on mountain or in vale,
Down to the veins of earth; thence gliding hot
To some cave's mouth; or whether washed by stream
From underground;) the liquid ore he drained
Into fit moulds prepared; from which he formed
First his own tools; then, what might else be wrought
Fusil or graven in metal.  After these,
But on the hither side, a different sort
From the high neighbouring hills, which was their seat,
Down to the plain descended; by their guise
Just men they seemed, and all their study bent
To worship God aright, and know his works
Not hid; nor those things last, which might preserve
Freedom and peace to Men; they on the plain
Long had not walked, when from the tents, behold!
A bevy of fair women, richly gay
In gems and wanton dress; to the harp they sung
Soft amorous ditties, and in dance came on:
The men, though grave, eyed them; and let their eyes
Rove without rein; till, in the amorous net
Fast caught, they liked; and each his liking chose;
And now of love they treat, till the evening-star,
Love's harbinger, appeared; then, all in heat
They light the nuptial torch, and bid invoke
Hymen, then first to marriage rites invoked:
With feast and musick all the tents resound.
Such happy interview, and fair event
Of love and youth not lost, songs, garlands, flowers,
And charming symphonies, attached the heart
Of Adam, soon inclined to admit delight,
The bent of nature; which he thus expressed.
True opener of mine eyes, prime Angel blest;
Much better seems this vision, and more hope
Of peaceful days portends, than those two past;
Those were of hate and death, or pain much worse;
Here Nature seems fulfilled in all her ends.
To whom thus Michael.  Judge not what is best
By pleasure, though to nature seeming meet;
Created, as thou art, to nobler end
Holy and pure, conformity divine.
Those tents thou sawest so pleasant, were the tents
Of wickedness, wherein shall dwell his race
Who slew his brother; studious they appear
Of arts that polish life, inventers rare;
Unmindful of their Maker, though his Spirit
Taught them; but they his gifts acknowledged none.
Yet they a beauteous offspring shall beget;
For that fair female troop thou sawest, that seemed
Of Goddesses, so blithe, so smooth, so gay,
Yet empty of all good wherein consists
Woman's domestick honour and chief praise;
Bred only and completed to the taste
Of lustful appetence, to sing, to dance,
To dress, and troll the tongue, and roll the eye:
To these that sober race of men, whose lives
Religious titled them the sons of God,
Shall yield up all their virtue, all their fame
Ignobly, to the trains and to the smiles
Of these fair atheists; and now swim in joy,
Erelong to swim at large; and laugh, for which
The world erelong a world of tears must weep.
To whom thus Adam, of short joy bereft.
O pity and shame, that they, who to live well
Entered so fair, should turn aside to tread
Paths indirect, or in the mid way faint!
But still I see the tenour of Man's woe
Holds on the same, from Woman to begin.
From Man's effeminate slackness it begins,
Said the Angel, who should better hold his place
By wisdom, and superiour gifts received.
But now prepare thee for another scene.
He looked, and saw wide territory spread
Before him, towns, and rural works between;
Cities of men with lofty gates and towers,
Concourse in arms, fierce faces threatening war,
Giants of mighty bone and bold emprise;
Part wield their arms, part curb the foaming steed,
Single or in array of battle ranged
Both horse and foot, nor idly mustering stood;
One way a band select from forage drives
A herd of beeves, fair oxen and fair kine,
From a fat meadow ground; or fleecy flock,
Ewes and their bleating lambs over the plain,
Their booty; scarce with life the shepherds fly,
But call in aid, which makes a bloody fray;
With cruel tournament the squadrons join;
Where cattle pastured late, now scattered lies
With carcasses and arms the ensanguined field,
Deserted:  Others to a city strong
Lay siege, encamped; by battery, scale, and mine,
Assaulting; others from the wall defend
With dart and javelin, stones, and sulphurous fire;
On each hand slaughter, and gigantick deeds.
In other part the sceptered heralds call
To council, in the city-gates; anon
Gray-headed men and grave, with warriours mixed,
Assemble, and harangues are heard; but soon,
In factious opposition; till at last,
Of middle age one rising, eminent
In wise deport, spake much of right and wrong,
Of justice, or religion, truth, and peace,
And judgement from above: him old and young
Exploded, and had seized with violent hands,
Had not a cloud descending snatched him thence
Unseen amid the throng: so violence
Proceeded, and oppression, and sword-law,
Through all the plain, and refuge none was found.
Adam was all in tears, and to his guide
Lamenting turned full sad; O!what are these,
Death's ministers, not men? who thus deal death
Inhumanly to men, and multiply
Ten thousandfold the sin of him who slew
His brother: for of whom such massacre
Make they, but of their brethren; men of men
But who was that just man, whom had not Heaven
Rescued, had in his righteousness been lost?
To whom thus Michael.  These are the product
Of those ill-mated marriages thou sawest;
Where good with bad were matched, who of themselves
Abhor to join; and, by imprudence mixed,
Produce prodigious births of body or mind.
Such were these giants, men of high renown;
For in those days might only shall be admired,
And valour and heroick virtue called;
To overcome in battle, and subdue
Nations, and bring home spoils with infinite
Man-slaughter, shall be held the highest pitch
Of human glory; and for glory done
Of triumph, to be styled great conquerours
Patrons of mankind, Gods, and sons of Gods;
Destroyers rightlier called, and plagues of men.
Thus fame shall be achieved, renown on earth;
And what most merits fame, in silence hid.
But he, the seventh from thee, whom thou beheldst
The only righteous in a world preverse,
And therefore hated, therefore so beset
With foes, for daring single to be just,
And utter odious truth, that God would come
To judge them with his Saints; him the Most High
Rapt in a balmy cloud with winged steeds
Did, as thou sawest, receive, to walk with God
High in salvation and the climes of bliss,
Exempt from death; to show thee what reward
Awaits the good; the rest what punishment;
Which now direct thine eyes and soon behold.
He looked, and saw the face of things quite changed;
The brazen throat of war had ceased to roar;
All now was turned to jollity and game,
To luxury and riot, feast and dance;
Marrying or prostituting, as befel,
Rape or adultery, where passing fair
Allured them; thence from cups to civil broils.
At length a reverend sire among them came,
And of their doings great dislike declared,
And testified against their ways; he oft
Frequented their assemblies, whereso met,
Triumphs or festivals; and to them preached
Conversion and repentance, as to souls
In prison, under judgements imminent:
But all in vain: which when he saw, he ceased
Contending, and removed his tents far off;
Then, from the mountain hewing timber tall,
Began to build a vessel of huge bulk;
Measured by cubit, length, and breadth, and highth;
Smeared round with pitch; and in the side a door
Contrived; and of provisions laid in large,
For man and beast: when lo, a wonder strange!
Of every beast, and bird, and insect small,
Came sevens, and pairs; and entered in as taught
Their order: last the sire and his three sons,
With their four wives; and God made fast the door.
Mean while the south-wind rose, and, with black wings
Wide-hovering, all the clouds together drove
From under Heaven; the hills to their supply
Vapour, and exhalation dusk and moist,
Sent up amain; and now the thickened sky
Like a dark cieling stood; down rushed the rain
Impetuous; and continued, till the earth
No more was seen: the floating vessel swum
Uplifted, and secure with beaked prow
Rode tilting o'er the waves; all dwellings else
Flood overwhelmed, and them with all their pomp
Deep under water rolled; sea covered sea,
Sea without shore; and in their palaces,
Where luxury late reigned, sea-monsters whelped
And stabled; of mankind, so numerous late,
All left, in one small bottom swum imbarked.
How didst thou grieve then, Adam, to behold
The end of all thy offspring, end so sad,
Depopulation!  Thee another flood,
Of tears and sorrow a flood, thee also drowned,
And sunk thee as thy sons; till, gently reared
By the Angel, on thy feet thou stoodest at last,
Though comfortless; as when a father mourns
His children, all in view destroyed at once;
And scarce to the Angel utter'dst thus thy plaint.
O visions ill foreseen!  Better had I
Lived ignorant of future! so had borne
My part of evil only, each day's lot
Enough to bear; those now, that were dispensed
The burden of many ages, on me light
At once, by my foreknowledge gaining birth
Abortive, to torment me ere their being,
With thought that they must be.  Let no man seek
Henceforth to be foretold, what shall befall
Him or his children; evil he may be sure,
Which neither his foreknowing can prevent;
And he the future evil shall no less
In apprehension than in substance feel,
Grievous to bear: but that care now is past,
Man is not whom to warn: those few escaped
Famine and anguish will at last consume,
Wandering that watery desart:  I had hope,
When violence was ceased, and war on earth,
All would have then gone well; peace would have crowned
With length of happy days the race of Man;
But I was far deceived; for now I see
Peace to corrupt no less than war to waste.
How comes it thus? unfold, celestial Guide,
And whether here the race of Man will end.
To whom thus Michael.  Those, whom last thou sawest
In triumph and luxurious wealth, are they
First seen in acts of prowess eminent
And great exploits, but of true virtue void;
Who, having spilt much blood, and done much wast
Subduing nations, and achieved thereby
Fame in the world, high titles, and rich prey;
Shall change their course to pleasure, ease, and sloth,
Surfeit, and lust; till wantonness and pride
Raise out of friendship hostile deeds in peace.
The conquered also, and enslaved by war,
Shall, with their freedom lost, all virtue lose
And fear of God; from whom their piety feigned
In sharp contest of battle found no aid
Against invaders; therefore, cooled in zeal,
Thenceforth shall practice how to live secure,
Worldly or dissolute, on what their lords
Shall leave them to enjoy; for the earth shall bear
More than enough, that temperance may be tried:
So all shall turn degenerate, all depraved;
Justice and temperance, truth and faith, forgot;
One man except, the only son of light
In a dark age, against example good,
Against allurement, custom, and a world
Offended: fearless of reproach and scorn,
The grand-child, with twelve sons encreased, departs
From Canaan, to a land hereafter called
Egypt, divided by the river Nile;
See where it flows, disgorging at seven mouths
Into the sea:  To sojourn in that land
He comes, invited by a younger son
In time of dearth; a son, whose worthy deeds
Raise him to be the second in that realm
Of Pharaoh:  There he dies, and leaves his race
Growing into a nation, and now grown
Suspected to a sequent king, who seeks
To stop their overgrowth, as inmate guests
Or violence, he of their wicked ways
Shall them admonish; and before them set
The paths of righteousness, how much more safe
And full of peace; denouncing wrath to come
On their impenitence; and shall return
Of them derided, but of God observed
The one just man alive; by his command
Shall build a wonderous ark, as thou beheldst,
To save himself, and houshold, from amidst
A world devote to universal wrack.
No sooner he, with them of man and beast
Select for life, shall in the ark be lodged,
And sheltered round; but all the cataracts
Of Heaven set open on the Earth shall pour
Rain, day and night; all fountains of the deep,
Broke up, shall heave the ocean to usurp
Beyond all bounds; till inundation rise
Above the highest hills:  Then shall this mount
Of Paradise by might of waves be moved
Out of his place, pushed by the horned flood,
With all his verdure spoiled, and trees adrift,
Down the great river to the opening gulf,
And there take root an island salt and bare,
The haunt of seals, and orcs, and sea-mews' clang:
To teach thee that God attributes to place
No sanctity, if none be thither brought
By men who there frequent, or therein dwell.
And now, what further shall ensue, behold.
He looked, and saw the ark hull on the flood,
Which now abated; for the clouds were fled,
Driven by a keen north-wind, that, blowing dry,
Wrinkled the face of deluge, as decayed;
And the clear sun on his wide watery glass
Gazed hot, and of the fresh wave largely drew,
As after thirst; which made their flowing shrink
From standing lake to tripping ebb, that stole
With soft foot towards the deep; who now had stopt
His sluces, as the Heaven his windows shut.
The ark no more now floats, but seems on ground,
Fast on the top of some high mountain fixed.
And now the tops of hills, as rocks, appear;
With clamour thence the rapid currents drive,
Towards the retreating sea, their furious tide.
Forthwith from out the ark a raven flies,
And after him, the surer messenger,
A dove sent forth once and again to spy
Green tree or ground, whereon his foot may light:
The second time returning, in his bill
An olive-leaf he brings, pacifick sign:
Anon dry ground appears, and from his ark
The ancient sire descends, with all his train;
Then with uplifted hands, and eyes devout,
Grateful to Heaven, over his head beholds
A dewy cloud, and in the cloud a bow
Conspicuous with three lifted colours gay,
Betokening peace from God, and covenant new.
Whereat the heart of Adam, erst so sad,
Greatly rejoiced; and thus his joy broke forth.
O thou, who future things canst represent
As present, heavenly Instructer!  I revive
At this last sight; assured that Man shall live,
With all the creatures, and their seed preserve.
Far less I now lament for one whole world
Of wicked sons destroyed, than I rejoice
For one man found so perfect, and so just,
That God vouchsafes to raise another world
From him, and all his anger to forget.
But say, what mean those coloured streaks in Heaven
Distended, as the brow of God appeased?
Or serve they, as a flowery verge, to bind
The fluid skirts of that same watery cloud,
Lest it again dissolve, and shower the earth?
To whom the Arch-Angel.  Dextrously thou aimest;
So willingly doth God remit his ire,
Though late repenting him of Man depraved;
Grieved at his heart, when looking down he saw
The whole earth filled with violence, and all flesh
Corrupting each their way; yet, those removed,
Such grace shall one just man find in his sight,
That he relents, not to blot out mankind;
And makes a covenant never to destroy
The earth again by flood; nor let the sea
Surpass his bounds; nor rain to drown the world,
With man therein or beast; but, when he brings
Over the earth a cloud, will therein set
His triple-coloured bow, whereon to look,
And call to mind his covenant: Day and night,
Seed-time and harvest, heat and hoary frost,
Shall hold their course; till fire purge all things new,
Both Heaven and Earth, wherein the just shall dwell.



Book XII


As one who in his journey bates at noon,
Though bent on speed; so here the Arch-Angel paused
Betwixt the world destroyed and world restored,
If Adam aught perhaps might interpose;
Then, with transition sweet, new speech resumes.
Thus thou hast seen one world begin, and end;
And Man, as from a second stock, proceed.
Much thou hast yet to see; but I perceive
Thy mortal sight to fail; objects divine
Must needs impair and weary human sense:
Henceforth what is to come I will relate;
Thou therefore give due audience, and attend.
This second source of Men, while yet but few,
And while the dread of judgement past remains
Fresh in their minds, fearing the Deity,
With some regard to what is just and right
Shall lead their lives, and multiply apace;
Labouring the soil, and reaping plenteous crop,
Corn, wine, and oil; and, from the herd or flock,
Oft sacrificing bullock, lamb, or kid,
With large wine-offerings poured, and sacred feast,
Shall spend their days in joy unblamed; and dwell
Long time in peace, by families and tribes,
Under paternal rule: till one shall rise
Of proud ambitious heart; who, not content
With fair equality, fraternal state,
Will arrogate dominion undeserved
Over his brethren, and quite dispossess
Concord and law of nature from the earth;
Hunting (and men not beasts shall be his game)
With war, and hostile snare, such as refuse
Subjection to his empire tyrannous:
A mighty hunter thence he shall be styled
Before the Lord; as in despite of Heaven,
Or from Heaven, claiming second sovranty;
And from rebellion shall derive his name,
Though of rebellion others he accuse.
He with a crew, whom like ambition joins
With him or under him to tyrannize,
Marching from Eden towards the west, shall find
The plain, wherein a black bituminous gurge
Boils out from under ground, the mouth of Hell:
Of brick, and of that stuff, they cast to build
A city and tower, whose top may reach to Heaven;
And get themselves a name; lest, far dispersed
In foreign lands, their memory be lost;
Regardless whether good or evil fame.
But God, who oft descends to visit men
Unseen, and through their habitations walks
To mark their doings, them beholding soon,
Comes down to see their city, ere the tower
Obstruct Heaven-towers, and in derision sets
Upon their tongues a various spirit, to rase
Quite out their native language; and, instead,
To sow a jangling noise of words unknown:
Forthwith a hideous gabble rises loud,
Among the builders; each to other calls
Not understood; till hoarse, and all in rage,
As mocked they storm: great laughter was in Heaven,
And looking down, to see the hubbub strange,
And hear the din:  Thus was the building left
Ridiculous, and the work Confusion named.
Whereto thus Adam, fatherly displeased.
O execrable son! so to aspire
Above his brethren; to himself assuming
Authority usurped, from God not given:
He gave us only over beast, fish, fowl,
Dominion absolute; that right we hold
By his donation; but man over men
He made not lord; such title to himself
Reserving, human left from human free.
But this usurper his encroachment proud
Stays not on Man; to God his tower intends
Siege and defiance:  Wretched man!what food
Will he convey up thither, to sustain
Himself and his rash army; where thin air
Above the clouds will pine his entrails gross,
And famish him of breath, if not of bread?
To whom thus Michael.  Justly thou abhorrest
That son, who on the quiet state of men
Such trouble brought, affecting to subdue
Rational liberty; yet know withal,
Since thy original lapse, true liberty
Is lost, which always with right reason dwells
Twinned, and from her hath no dividual being:
Reason in man obscured, or not obeyed,
Immediately inordinate desires,
And upstart passions, catch the government
From reason; and to servitude reduce
Man, till then free.  Therefore, since he permits
Within himself unworthy powers to reign
Over free reason, God, in judgement just,
Subjects him from without to violent lords;
Who oft as undeservedly enthrall
His outward freedom:  Tyranny must be;
Though to the tyrant thereby no excuse.
Yet sometimes nations will decline so low
From virtue, which is reason, that no wrong,
But justice, and some fatal curse annexed,
Deprives them of their outward liberty;
Their inward lost:  Witness the irreverent son
Of him who built the ark; who, for the shame
Done to his father, heard this heavy curse,
Servant of servants, on his vicious race.
Thus will this latter, as the former world,
Still tend from bad to worse; till God at last,
Wearied with their iniquities, withdraw
His presence from among them, and avert
His holy eyes; resolving from thenceforth
To leave them to their own polluted ways;
And one peculiar nation to select
From all the rest, of whom to be invoked,
A nation from one faithful man to spring:
Him on this side Euphrates yet residing,
Bred up in idol-worship:  O, that men
(Canst thou believe?) should be so stupid grown,
While yet the patriarch lived, who 'scaped the flood,
As to forsake the living God, and fall
To worship their own work in wood and stone
For Gods!  Yet him God the Most High vouchsafes
To call by vision, from his father's house,
His kindred, and false Gods, into a land
Which he will show him; and from him will raise
A mighty nation; and upon him shower
His benediction so, that in his seed
All nations shall be blest: he straight obeys;
Not knowing to what land, yet firm believes:
I see him, but thou canst not, with what faith
He leaves his Gods, his friends, and native soil,
Ur of Chaldaea, passing now the ford
To Haran; after him a cumbrous train
Of herds and flocks, and numerous servitude;
Not wandering poor, but trusting all his wealth
With God, who called him, in a land unknown.
Canaan he now attains; I see his tents
Pitched about Sechem, and the neighbouring plain
Of Moreh; there by promise he receives
Gift to his progeny of all that land,
From Hameth northward to the Desart south;
(Things by their names I call, though yet unnamed;)
From Hermon east to the great western Sea;
Mount Hermon, yonder sea; each place behold
In prospect, as I point them; on the shore
Mount Carmel; here, the double-founted stream,
Jordan, true limit eastward; but his sons
Shall dwell to Senir, that long ridge of hills.
This ponder, that all nations of the earth
Shall in his seed be blessed:  By that seed
Is meant thy great Deliverer, who shall bruise
The Serpent's head; whereof to thee anon
Plainlier shall be revealed.  This patriarch blest,
Whom faithful Abraham due time shall call,
A son, and of his son a grand-child, leaves;
Like him in faith, in wisdom, and renown:
The grandchild, with twelve sons increased, departs
From Canaan to a land hereafter called
Egypt, divided by the river Nile
See where it flows, disgorging at seven mouths
Into the sea. To sojourn in that land
He comes, invited by a younger son
In time of dearth, a son whose worthy deeds
Raise him to be the second in that realm
Of Pharaoh. There he dies, and leaves his race
Growing into a nation, and now grown
Suspected to a sequent king, who seeks
To stop their overgrowth, as inmate guests
Too numerous; whence of guests he makes them slaves
Inhospitably, and kills their infant males:
Till by two brethren (these two brethren call
Moses and Aaron) sent from God to claim
His people from enthralment, they return,
With glory and spoil, back to their promised land.
But first, the lawless tyrant, who denies
To know their God, or message to regard,
Must be compelled by signs and judgements dire;
To blood unshed the rivers must be turned;
Frogs, lice, and flies, must all his palace fill
With loathed intrusion, and fill all the land;
His cattle must of rot and murren die;
Botches and blains must all his flesh emboss,
And all his people; thunder mixed with hail,
Hail mixed with fire, must rend the Egyptians sky,
And wheel on the earth, devouring where it rolls;
What it devours not, herb, or fruit, or grain,
A darksome cloud of locusts swarming down
Must eat, and on the ground leave nothing green;
Darkness must overshadow all his bounds,
Palpable darkness, and blot out three days;
Last, with one midnight stroke, all the first-born
Of Egypt must lie dead.  Thus with ten wounds
The river-dragon tamed at length submits
To let his sojourners depart, and oft
Humbles his stubborn heart; but still, as ice
More hardened after thaw; till, in his rage
Pursuing whom he late dismissed, the sea
Swallows him with his host; but them lets pass,
As on dry land, between two crystal walls;
Awed by the rod of Moses so to stand
Divided, till his rescued gain their shore:
Such wondrous power God to his saint will lend,
Though present in his Angel; who shall go
Before them in a cloud, and pillar of fire;
By day a cloud, by night a pillar of fire;
To guide them in their journey, and remove
Behind them, while the obdurate king pursues:
All night he will pursue; but his approach
Darkness defends between till morning watch;
Then through the fiery pillar, and the cloud,
God looking forth will trouble all his host,
And craze their chariot-wheels: when by command
Moses once more his potent rod extends
Over the sea; the sea his rod obeys;
On their embattled ranks the waves return,
And overwhelm their war:  The race elect
Safe toward Canaan from the shore advance
Through the wild Desart, not the readiest way;
Lest, entering on the Canaanite alarmed,
War terrify them inexpert, and fear
Return them back to Egypt, choosing rather
Inglorious life with servitude; for life
To noble and ignoble is more sweet
Untrained in arms, where rashness leads not on.
This also shall they gain by their delay
In the wide wilderness; there they shall found
Their government, and their great senate choose
Through the twelve tribes, to rule by laws ordained:
God from the mount of Sinai, whose gray top
Shall tremble, he descending, will himself
In thunder, lightning, and loud trumpets' sound,
Ordain them laws; part, such as appertain
To civil justice; part, religious rites
Of sacrifice; informing them, by types
And shadows, of that destined Seed to bruise
The Serpent, by what means he shall achieve
Mankind's deliverance.  But the voice of God
To mortal ear is dreadful:  They beseech
That Moses might report to them his will,
And terrour cease; he grants what they besought,
Instructed that to God is no access
Without Mediator, whose high office now
Moses in figure bears; to introduce
One greater, of whose day he shall foretel,
And all the Prophets in their age the times
Of great Messiah shall sing.  Thus, laws and rites
Established, such delight hath God in Men
Obedient to his will, that he vouchsafes
Among them to set up his tabernacle;
The Holy One with mortal Men to dwell:
By his prescript a sanctuary is framed
Of cedar, overlaid with gold; therein
An ark, and in the ark his testimony,
The records of his covenant; over these
A mercy-seat of gold, between the wings
Of two bright Cherubim; before him burn
Seven lamps as in a zodiack representing
The heavenly fires; over the tent a cloud
Shall rest by day, a fiery gleam by night;
Save when they journey, and at length they come,
Conducted by his Angel, to the land
Promised to Abraham and his seed:--The rest
Were long to tell; how many battles fought
How many kings destroyed; and kingdoms won;
Or how the sun shall in mid Heaven stand still
A day entire, and night's due course adjourn,
Man's voice commanding, 'Sun, in Gibeon stand,
'And thou moon in the vale of Aialon,
'Till Israel overcome! so call the third
From Abraham, son of Isaac; and from him
His whole descent, who thus shall Canaan win.
Here Adam interposed.  O sent from Heaven,
Enlightener of my darkness, gracious things
Thou hast revealed; those chiefly, which concern
Just Abraham and his seed: now first I find
Mine eyes true-opening, and my heart much eased;
Erewhile perplexed with thoughts, what would become
Of me and all mankind:  But now I see
His day, in whom all nations shall be blest;
Favour unmerited by me, who sought
Forbidden knowledge by forbidden means.
This yet I apprehend not, why to those
Among whom God will deign to dwell on earth
So many and so various laws are given;
So many laws argue so many sins
Among them; how can God with such reside?
To whom thus Michael.  Doubt not but that sin
Will reign among them, as of thee begot;
And therefore was law given them, to evince
Their natural pravity, by stirring up
Sin against law to fight: that when they see
Law can discover sin, but not remove,
Save by those shadowy expiations weak,
The blood of bulls and goats, they may conclude
Some blood more precious must be paid for Man;
Just for unjust; that, in such righteousness
To them by faith imputed, they may find
Justification towards God, and peace
Of conscience; which the law by ceremonies
Cannot appease; nor Man the mortal part
Perform; and, not performing, cannot live.
So law appears imperfect; and but given
With purpose to resign them, in full time,
Up to a better covenant; disciplined
From shadowy types to truth; from flesh to spirit;
From imposition of strict laws to free
Acceptance of large grace; from servile fear
To filial; works of law to works of faith.
And therefore shall not Moses, though of God
Highly beloved, being but the minister
Of law, his people into Canaan lead;
But Joshua, whom the Gentiles Jesus call,
His name and office bearing, who shall quell
The adversary-Serpent, and bring back
Through the world's wilderness long-wandered Man
Safe to eternal Paradise of rest.
Mean while they, in their earthly Canaan placed,
Long time shall dwell and prosper, but when sins
National interrupt their publick peace,
Provoking God to raise them enemies;
From whom as oft he saves them penitent
By Judges first, then under Kings; of whom
The second, both for piety renowned
And puissant deeds, a promise shall receive
Irrevocable, that his regal throne
For ever shall endure; the like shall sing
All Prophecy, that of the royal stock
Of David (so I name this king) shall rise
A Son, the Woman's seed to thee foretold,
Foretold to Abraham, as in whom shall trust
All nations; and to kings foretold, of kings
The last; for of his reign shall be no end.
But first, a long succession must ensue;
And his next son, for wealth and wisdom famed,
The clouded ark of God, till then in tents
Wandering, shall in a glorious temple enshrine.
Such follow him, as shall be registered
Part good, part bad; of bad the longer scroll;
Whose foul idolatries, and other faults
Heaped to the popular sum, will so incense
God, as to leave them, and expose their land,
Their city, his temple, and his holy ark,
With all his sacred things, a scorn and prey
To that proud city, whose high walls thou sawest
Left in confusion; Babylon thence called.
There in captivity he lets them dwell
The space of seventy years; then brings them back,
Remembering mercy, and his covenant sworn
To David, stablished as the days of Heaven.
Returned from Babylon by leave of kings
Their lords, whom God disposed, the house of God
They first re-edify; and for a while
In mean estate live moderate; till, grown
In wealth and multitude, factious they grow;
But first among the priests dissention springs,
Men who attend the altar, and should most
Endeavour peace: their strife pollution brings
Upon the temple itself: at last they seise
The scepter, and regard not David's sons;
Then lose it to a stranger, that the true
Anointed King Messiah might be born
Barred of his right; yet at his birth a star,
Unseen before in Heaven, proclaims him come;
And guides the eastern sages, who inquire
His place, to offer incense, myrrh, and gold:
His place of birth a solemn Angel tells
To simple shepherds, keeping watch by night;
They gladly thither haste, and by a quire
Of squadroned Angels hear his carol sung.
A virgin is his mother, but his sire
The power of the Most High:  He shall ascend
The throne hereditary, and bound his reign
With Earth's wide bounds, his glory with the Heavens.
He ceased, discerning Adam with such joy
Surcharged, as had like grief been dewed in tears,
Without the vent of words; which these he breathed.
O prophet of glad tidings, finisher
Of utmost hope! now clear I understand
What oft my steadiest thoughts have searched in vain;
Why our great Expectation should be called
The seed of Woman:  Virgin Mother, hail,
High in the love of Heaven; yet from my loins
Thou shalt proceed, and from thy womb the Son
Of God Most High: so God with Man unites!
Needs must the Serpent now his capital bruise
Expect with mortal pain:  Say where and when
Their fight, what stroke shall bruise the victor's heel.
To whom thus Michael.  Dream not of their fight,
As of a duel, or the local wounds
Of head or heel:  Not therefore joins the Son
Manhood to Godhead, with more strength to foil
Thy enemy; nor so is overcome
Satan, whose fall from Heaven, a deadlier bruise,
Disabled, not to give thee thy death's wound:
Which he, who comes thy Saviour, shall recure,
Not by destroying Satan, but his works
In thee, and in thy seed:  Nor can this be,
But by fulfilling that which thou didst want,
Obedience to the law of God, imposed
On penalty of death, and suffering death;
The penalty to thy transgression due,
And due to theirs which out of thine will grow:
So only can high Justice rest appaid.
The law of God exact he shall fulfil
Both by obedience and by love, though love
Alone fulfil the law; thy punishment
He shall endure, by coming in the flesh
To a reproachful life, and cursed death;
Proclaiming life to all who shall believe
In his redemption; and that his obedience,
Imputed, becomes theirs by faith; his merits
To save them, not their own, though legal, works.
For this he shall live hated, be blasphemed,
Seised on by force, judged, and to death condemned
A shameful and accursed, nailed to the cross
By his own nation; slain for bringing life:
But to the cross he nails thy enemies,
The law that is against thee, and the sins
Of all mankind, with him there crucified,
Never to hurt them more who rightly trust
In this his satisfaction; so he dies,
But soon revives; Death over him no power
Shall long usurp; ere the third dawning light
Return, the stars of morn shall see him rise
Out of his grave, fresh as the dawning light,
Thy ransom paid, which Man from death redeems,
His death for Man, as many as offered life
Neglect not, and the benefit embrace
By faith not void of works:  This God-like act
Annuls thy doom, the death thou shouldest have died,
In sin for ever lost from life; this act
Shall bruise the head of Satan, crush his strength,
Defeating Sin and Death, his two main arms;
And fix far deeper in his head their stings
Than temporal death shall bruise the victor's heel,
Or theirs whom he redeems; a death, like sleep,
A gentle wafting to immortal life.
Nor after resurrection shall he stay
Longer on earth, than certain times to appear
To his disciples, men who in his life
Still followed him; to them shall leave in charge
To teach all nations what of him they learned
And his salvation; them who shall believe
Baptizing in the profluent stream, the sign
Of washing them from guilt of sin to life
Pure, and in mind prepared, if so befall,
For death, like that which the Redeemer died.
All nations they shall teach; for, from that day,
Not only to the sons of Abraham's loins
Salvation shall be preached, but to the sons
Of Abraham's faith wherever through the world;
So in his seed all nations shall be blest.
Then to the Heaven of Heavens he shall ascend
With victory, triumphing through the air
Over his foes and thine; there shall surprise
The Serpent, prince of air, and drag in chains
Through all his realm, and there confounded leave;
Then enter into glory, and resume
His seat at God's right hand, exalted high
Above all names in Heaven; and thence shall come,
When this world's dissolution shall be ripe,
With glory and power to judge both quick and dead;
To judge the unfaithful dead, but to reward
His faithful, and receive them into bliss,
Whether in Heaven or Earth; for then the Earth
Shall all be Paradise, far happier place
Than this of Eden, and far happier days.
So spake the Arch-Angel Michael; then paused,
As at the world's great period; and our sire,
Replete with joy and wonder, thus replied.
O Goodness infinite, Goodness immense!
That all this good of evil shall produce,
And evil turn to good; more wonderful
Than that which by creation first brought forth
Light out of darkness!  Full of doubt I stand,
Whether I should repent me now of sin
By me done, and occasioned; or rejoice
Much more, that much more good thereof shall spring;
To God more glory, more good-will to Men
From God, and over wrath grace shall abound.
But say, if our Deliverer up to Heaven
Must re-ascend, what will betide the few
His faithful, left among the unfaithful herd,
The enemies of truth?  Who then shall guide
His people, who defend?  Will they not deal
Worse with his followers than with him they dealt?
Be sure they will, said the Angel; but from Heaven
He to his own a Comforter will send,
The promise of the Father, who shall dwell
His Spirit within them; and the law of faith,
Working through love, upon their hearts shall write,
To guide them in all truth; and also arm
With spiritual armour, able to resist
Satan's assaults, and quench his fiery darts;
What man can do against them, not afraid,
Though to the death; against such cruelties
With inward consolations recompensed,
And oft supported so as shall amaze
Their proudest persecutors:  For the Spirit,
Poured first on his Apostles, whom he sends
To evangelize the nations, then on all
Baptized, shall them with wonderous gifts endue
To speak all tongues, and do all miracles,
As did their Lord before them.  Thus they win
Great numbers of each nation to receive
With joy the tidings brought from Heaven:  At length
Their ministry performed, and race well run,
Their doctrine and their story written left,
They die; but in their room, as they forewarn,
Wolves shall succeed for teachers, grievous wolves,
Who all the sacred mysteries of Heaven
To their own vile advantages shall turn
Of lucre and ambition; and the truth
With superstitions and traditions taint,
Left only in those written records pure,
Though not but by the Spirit understood.
Then shall they seek to avail themselves of names,
Places, and titles, and with these to join
Secular power; though feigning still to act
By spiritual, to themselves appropriating
The Spirit of God, promised alike and given
To all believers; and, from that pretence,
Spiritual laws by carnal power shall force
On every conscience; laws which none shall find
Left them inrolled, or what the Spirit within
Shall on the heart engrave.  What will they then
But force the Spirit of Grace itself, and bind
His consort Liberty? what, but unbuild
His living temples, built by faith to stand,
Their own faith, not another's? for, on earth,
Who against faith and conscience can be heard
Infallible? yet many will presume:
Whence heavy persecution shall arise
On all, who in the worship persevere
Of spirit and truth; the rest, far greater part,
Will deem in outward rites and specious forms
Religion satisfied; Truth shall retire
Bestuck with slanderous darts, and works of faith
Rarely be found:  So shall the world go on,
To good malignant, to bad men benign;
Under her own weight groaning; till the day
Appear of respiration to the just,
And vengeance to the wicked, at return
Of him so lately promised to thy aid,
The Woman's Seed; obscurely then foretold,
Now ampler known thy Saviour and thy Lord;
Last, in the clouds, from Heaven to be revealed
In glory of the Father, to dissolve
Satan with his perverted world; then raise
From the conflagrant mass, purged and refined,
New Heavens, new Earth, ages of endless date,
Founded in righteousness, and peace, and love;
To bring forth fruits, joy and eternal bliss.
He ended; and thus Adam last replied.
How soon hath thy prediction, Seer blest,
Measured this transient world, the race of time,
Till time stand fixed!  Beyond is all abyss,
Eternity, whose end no eye can reach.
Greatly-instructed I shall hence depart;
Greatly in peace of thought; and have my fill
Of knowledge, what this vessel can contain;
Beyond which was my folly to aspire.
Henceforth I learn, that to obey is best,
And love with fear the only God; to walk
As in his presence; ever to observe
His providence; and on him sole depend,
Merciful over all his works, with good
Still overcoming evil, and by small
Accomplishing great things, by things deemed weak
Subverting worldly strong, and worldly wise
By simply meek: that suffering for truth's sake
Is fortitude to highest victory,
And, to the faithful, death the gate of life;
Taught this by his example, whom I now
Acknowledge my Redeemer ever blest.
To whom thus also the Angel last replied.
This having learned, thou hast attained the sum
Of wisdom; hope no higher, though all the stars
Thou knewest by name, and all the ethereal powers,
All secrets of the deep, all Nature's works,
Or works of God in Heaven, air, earth, or sea,
And all the riches of this world enjoyedst,
And all the rule, one empire; only add
Deeds to thy knowledge answerable; add faith,
Add virtue, patience, temperance; add love,
By name to come called charity, the soul
Of all the rest: then wilt thou not be loth
To leave this Paradise, but shalt possess
A Paradise within thee, happier far.--
Let us descend now therefore from this top
Of speculation; for the hour precise
Exacts our parting hence; and see!the guards,
By me encamped on yonder hill, expect
Their motion; at whose front a flaming sword,
In signal of remove, waves fiercely round:
We may no longer stay: go, waken Eve;
Her also I with gentle dreams have calmed
Portending good, and all her spirits composed
To meek submission: thou, at season fit,
Let her with thee partake what thou hast heard;
Chiefly what may concern her faith to know,
The great deliverance by her seed to come
(For by the Woman's seed) on all mankind:
That ye may live, which will be many days,
Both in one faith unanimous, though sad,
With cause, for evils past; yet much more cheered
With meditation on the happy end.
He ended, and they both descend the hill;
Descended, Adam to the bower, where Eve
Lay sleeping, ran before; but found her waked;
And thus with words not sad she him received.
Whence thou returnest, and whither wentest, I know;
For God is also in sleep; and dreams advise,
Which he hath sent propitious, some great good
Presaging, since with sorrow and heart's distress
Wearied I fell asleep:  But now lead on;
In me is no delay; with thee to go,
Is to stay here; without thee here to stay,
Is to go hence unwilling; thou to me
Art all things under $Heaven, all places thou,
Who for my wilful crime art banished hence.
This further consolation yet secure
I carry hence; though all by me is lost,
Such favour I unworthy am vouchsafed,
By me the Promised Seed shall all restore.
So spake our mother Eve; and Adam heard
Well pleased, but answered not:  For now, too nigh
The Arch-Angel stood; and, from the other hill
To their fixed station, all in bright array
The Cherubim descended; on the ground
Gliding meteorous, as evening-mist
Risen from a river o'er the marish glides,
And gathers ground fast at the labourer's heel
Homeward returning.  High in front advanced,
The brandished sword of God before them blazed,
Fierce as a comet; which with torrid heat,
And vapour as the Libyan air adust,
Began to parch that temperate clime; whereat
In either hand the hastening Angel caught
Our lingering parents, and to the eastern gate
Led them direct, and down the cliff as fast
To the subjected plain; then disappeared.
They, looking back, all the eastern side beheld
Of Paradise, so late their happy seat,
Waved over by that flaming brand; the gate
With dreadful faces thronged, and fiery arms:
Some natural tears they dropt, but wiped them soon;
The world was all before them, where to choose
Their place of rest, and Providence their guide:
They, hand in hand, with wandering steps and slow,
Through Eden took their solitary way.

****The Project Gutenberg Edition of THE WORLD FACTBOOK 1992****
******This file should be named world92.zip or world92.txt******

Corrected EDITIONS of our etexts get a new NUMBER, world921.txt.
VERSIONS based on separate sources get new LETTER, world92a.txt.

Information about Project Gutenberg (one page)

We produce about one million dollars for each hour we work.  One
hundred hours is a conservative estimate for how long it we take
to get any etext selected, entered, proofread, edited, copyright
searched and analyzed, the copyright letters written, etc.  This
projected audience is one hundred million readers.  If our value
per text is nominally estimated at one dollar, then we produce a
million dollars per hour; next year we will have to do four text
files per month, thus upping our productivity to two million/hr.
The Goal of Project Gutenberg is to Give Away One Trillion Etext
Files by the December 31, 2001.  [10,000 x 100,000,000=Trillion]
This is ten thousand titles each to one hundred million readers.

We need your donations more than ever!

All donations should be made to "Project Gutenberg/IBC", and are
tax deductible to the extent allowable by law ("IBC" is Illinois
Benedictine College).  (Subscriptions to our paper newsletter go
to IBC, too)

For these and other matters, please mail to:

David Turner, Project Gutenberg
Illinois  Benedictine  College
5700  College  Road
Lisle, IL 60532-0900

Email requests to:
Internet:    chipmonk@eagle.ibc.edu (David Turner)
Compuserve:  chipmonk@eagle.ibc.edu (David Turner)
Attmail:     internet!chipmonk@eagle.ibc.edu (David Turner)
MCImail:     (David Turner)
ADDRESS TYPE: MCI / EMS: INTERNET / MBX:chipmonk@eagle.ibc.edu

When all other email fails try our Michael S. Hart, Executive Director:
hart@vmd.cso.uiuc.edu (internet)   hart@uiucvmd   (bitnet)

We would prefer to send you this information by email
(Internet, Bitnet, Compuserve, ATTMAIL or MCImail).

******
If you have an FTP program (or emulator), please:

FTP directly to the Project Gutenberg archives:
ftp mrcnext.cso.uiuc.edu
login:  anonymous
password:  your@login
cd etext/etext91
or cd etext92 [for new books]  [now also cd etext/etext92]
or cd etext/articles [get suggest gut for more information]
dir [to see files]
get or mget [to get files. . .set bin for zip files]
GET INDEX and AAINDEX
for a list of books
and
GET NEW GUT for general information
and
MGET GUT* for newsletters.

**Information prepared by the Project Gutenberg legal advisor**
(Three Pages)

****START**THE SMALL PRINT!**FOR PUBLIC DOMAIN ETEXTS**START****

Why is this "Small Print!" statement here?  You know: lawyers.
They tell us you might sue us if there is something wrong with
your copy of this etext, even if you got it for free from
someone other than us, and even if what's wrong is not our
fault.  So, among other things, this "Small Print!" statement
disclaims most of our liability to you.  It also tells you how
you can distribute copies of this etext if you want to.

*BEFORE!* YOU USE OR READ THIS ETEXT

By using or reading any part of this PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm etext,
you indicate that you understand, agree to and accept this
"Small Print!" statement.  If you do not, you can receive a
refund of the money (if any) you paid for this etext by sending
a request within 30 days of receiving it to the person you got
it from.  If you received this etext on a physical medium (such
as a disk), you must return it with your request.

ABOUT PROJECT GUTENBERG-TM ETEXTS

This PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm etext, like most PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
etexts, is a "public domain" work distributed by Professor
Michael S. Hart through the Project Gutenberg Association (the
"Project").  Among other things, this means that no one owns a
United States copyright on or for this work, so the Project (and
you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special
rules, set forth below, apply if you wish to copy and distribute
this etext under the Project's "PROJECT GUTENBERG" trademark.

To create these etexts, the Project expends considerable efforts
to identify, transcribe and proofread public domain works.
Despite these efforts, the Project's etexts and any medium they
may be on may contain "Defects".  Among other things, Defects
may take the form of incomplete, inaccurate or corrupt data,
transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual property
infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other etext medium,
a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be
read by your equipment.

DISCLAIMER

But for the "Right of Replacement or Refund" described below,
[1] the Project (and any other party you may receive this etext
from as a PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm etext) disclaims all liability to
you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal fees, and
[2] YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE OR UNDER STRICT LIABILI-
TY, OR FOR BREACH OF WARRANTY OR CONTRACT, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR INCIDENTAL
DAMAGES, EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGES.

If you discover a Defect in this etext within 90 days of
receiving it, you can receive a refund of the money (if any) you
paid for it by sending an explanatory note within that time to
the person you received it from.  If you received it on a
physical medium, you must return it with your note, and such
person may choose to alternatively give you a replacement copy.
If you received it electronically, such person may choose to
alternatively give you a second opportunity to receive it elec-
tronically.

THIS ETEXT IS OTHERWISE PROVIDED TO YOU "AS-IS".  NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, ARE MADE TO YOU AS
TO THE ETEXT OR ANY MEDIUM IT MAY BE ON, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

Some states do not allow disclaimers of implied warranties or
the exclusion or limitation of consequential damages, so the
above disclaimers and exclusions may not apply to you, and you
may have other legal rights.

INDEMNITY

You will indemnify and hold the Project, its directors,
officers, members and agents harmless from all liability, cost
and expense, including legal fees, that arise from any
distribution of this etext for which you are responsible, and
from [1] any alteration, modification or addition to the etext
for which you are responsible, or [2] any Defect.

DISTRIBUTION UNDER "PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm"

You may distribute copies of this etext electronically, or by
disk, book or any other medium if you either delete this "Small
Print!" and all other references to Project Gutenberg, or:

[1]  Only give exact copies of it.  Among other things, this re-
     quires that you do not remove, alter or modify the etext or
     this "small print!" statement.  You may however, if you
     wish, distribute this etext in machine readable binary,
     compressed, mark-up, or proprietary form, including any
     form resulting from conversion by word processing or hyper-
     text software, but only so long as *EITHER*:

     [*]  The etext, when displayed, is clearly readable.  We
          consider an etext *not* clearly readable if it
          contains characters other than those intended by the
          author of the work, although tilde (~), asterisk (*)
          and underline (_) characters may be used to convey
          punctuation intended by the author, and additional
          characters may be used to indicate hypertext links.

     [*]  The etext may be readily converted by the reader at no
          expense into plain ASCII, EBCDIC or equivalent form
          by the program that displays the etext (as is the
          case, for instance, with most word processors).

     [*]  You provide, or agree to also provide on request at no
          additional cost, fee or expense, a copy of the etext
          in its original plain ASCII form (or in EBCDIC or
          other equivalent proprietary form).

[2]   Honor the etext refund and replacement provisions of this
     "Small Print!" statement.

[3]  Pay a trademark license fee of 20% (twenty percent) of the
     net profits you derive from distributing this etext under
     the trademark, determined in accordance with generally
     accepted accounting practices.  The license fee:

     [*]  Is required only if you derive such profits.  In
          distributing under our trademark, you incur no
          obligation to charge money or earn profits for your
          distribution.

     [*]  Shall be paid to "Project Gutenberg Association /
          Illinois Benedictine College" (or to such other person
          as the Project Gutenberg Association may direct)
          within the 60 days following each date you prepare (or
          were legally required to prepare) your year-end tax
          return with respect to your income for that year.

WHAT IF YOU *WANT* TO SEND MONEY EVEN IF YOU DON'T HAVE TO?

The Project gratefully accepts contributions in money, time,
scanning machines, OCR software, public domain etexts, royalty
free copyright licenses, and every other sort of contribution
you can think of.  Money should be paid to "Project Gutenberg
Association / Illinois Benedictine College".

WRITE TO US!  We can be reached at:

Project Gutenberg Director of Communications (PGDIRCOM)

Internet:     pgdircom@vmd.cso.uiuc.edu
Bitnet:       pgdircom@uiucvmd
CompuServe:   >internet:pgdircom@.vmd.cso.uiuc.edu
Attmail:      internet!vmd.cso.uiuc.edu!pgdircom

Drafted by CHARLES B. KRAMER, Attorney
CompuServe:  72600,2026
  Internet:  72600.2026@compuserve.com
       Tel:  (212) 254-5093
*END*THE SMALL PRINT! FOR PUBLIC DOMAIN ETEXTS*Ver.07.02.92*END*



The Project Gutenberg Edition of THE WORLD FACTBOOK 1992:    January 1, 1993

This edition, as are all Project Gutenberg Editions, is Plain Vanilla ASCII,
meaning there are no characters other than what you would see on paper, thus
no page returns, no markup, nothing but the characters you would type if you
were to copy this from a book on a typewriter.  Repetitive paged headers and
trailing spaces are not present.  Leading spaces have been preserved in fact
sections for readability.

Mail subject headers can be searched with leading :'s. . .such as:

:Afghanistan Geography
:Afghanistan People
:Afghanistan Government
:Afghanistan Government
:Afghanistan Economy
:Afghanistan Economy
:Afghanistan Communications
:Afghanistan Defense Forces

To find the beginning of any country, search for :country
To find internal information, search for :country section, as above.


THE WORLD FACTBOOK 1992


:Afghanistan Geography

Total area:
    647,500 km2
Land area:
    647,500 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than Texas
Land boundaries:
    5,529 km total; China 76 km, Iran 936 km, Pakistan 2,430 km, Tajikistan
    1,206 km, Turkmenistan 744 km, Uzbekistan 137 km
Coastline:
    none - landlocked
Maritime claims:
    none - landlocked
Disputes:
    Pashtunistan issue over the North-West Frontier Province with Pakistan;
    periodic disputes with Iran over Helmand water rights; Pakistan, Saudi
    Arabia, and Iran continue to support clients in country; power struggles
    among various groups for control of Kabul, regional rivalries among emerging
    warlords, and traditional tribal disputes continue
Climate:
    arid to semiarid; cold winters and hot summers
Terrain:
    mostly rugged mountains; plains in north and southwest
Natural resources:
    natural gas, crude oil, coal, copper, talc, barites, sulphur, lead, zinc,
    iron ore, salt, precious and semiprecious stones
Land use:
    arable land 12%; permanent crops NEGL%; meadows and pastures 46%; forest and
    woodland 3%; other 39%; includes irrigated NEGL%
Environment:
    damaging earthquakes occur in Hindu Kush mountains; soil degradation,
    desertification, overgrazing, deforestation, pollution
Note:
    landlocked

:Afghanistan People

Population:
    US Bureau of the Census - 16,095,664 (July 1992), growth rate 2.4% (1992)
    and excludes 3,750,796 refugees in Pakistan and 1,607,281 refugees in Iran;
    note - another report indicates a July 1990 population of 16,904,904,
    including 3,271,580 refugees in Pakistan and 1,277,700 refugees in Iran
Birth rate:
    44 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    20 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992); note - there are flows across the border
    in both directions, but data are fragmentary and unreliable
Infant mortality rate:
    162 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    45 years male, 43 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    6.4 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Afghan(s); adjective - Afghan
Ethnic divisions:
    Pashtun 38%, Tajik 25%, Uzbek 6%, Hazara 19%; minor ethnic groups include
    Chahar Aimaks, Turkmen, Baloch, and others
Religions:
    Sunni Muslim 84%, Shi`a Muslim 15%, other 1%
Languages:
    Pashtu 35%, Afghan Persian (Dari) 50%, Turkic languages (primarily Uzbek and
    Turkmen) 11%, 30 minor languages (primarily Balochi and Pashai) 4%; much
    bilingualism
Literacy:
    29% (male 44%, female 14%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    4,980,000; agriculture and animal husbandry 67.8%, industry 10.2%,
    construction 6.3%, commerce 5.0%, services and other 10.7%, (1980 est.)
Organized labor:
    some small government-controlled unions existed under the former regime but
    probably now have disbanded

:Afghanistan Government

Long-form name:
    Islamic State of Afghanistan
Type:
    transitional
Capital:
    Kabul
Administrative divisions:
    30 provinces (velayat, singular - velayat); Badakhshan, Badghis, Baghlan,
    Balkh, Bamian, Farah, Faryab, Ghazni, Ghowr, Helmand, Herat, Jowzjan, Kabol,
    Kandahar, Kapisa, Konar, Kondoz, Laghman, Lowgar, Nangarhar, Nimruz,
    Oruzgan, Paktia, Paktika, Parvan, Samangan, Sar-e Pol, Takhar, Vardak,
    Zabol; note - there may be a new province of Nurestan (Nuristan)
Independence:
    19 August 1919 (from UK)
Constitution:
    the old Communist-era constitution probably will be replaced with an Islamic
    constitution
Legal system:
    a new legal system has not been adopted but the transitional government has
    declared it will follow Islamic law (Shari`a)
National holiday:
    28 April, Victory of the Muslim Nation; 4 May, Remembrance Day for Martyrs
    and Disabled; 19 August, Independence Day
Executive branch:
    a 51-member transitional council headed by Sibghatullah MOJADDEDI rules
    Kabul; this body is to turn over power to a leadership council, which will
    function as the government and organize elections; Burhanuddin RABBANI will
    serve as interim President
Legislative branch:
    previous bicameral legislature has been abolished
Judicial branch:
    an interim Chief Justice of the Supreme Court has been appointed, but a new
    court system has not yet been organized
Leaders:
  Chief of State and Head of Government:
    Interim President Burhanuddin RABBANI; First Vice President Abdul Wahed
    SORABI (since 7 January 1991); Prime Minister Fazil Haq KHALIQYAR (since 21
    May 1990)
Political parties and leaders:
    the former resistance parties represent the only current political
    organizations and include Jamiat-i-Islami (Islamic Society), Burhanuddin
    RABBANI; Hizbi Islami-Gulbuddin (Islamic Party), Gulbuddin Hikmatyar
    Faction; Hizbi Islami-Khalis (Islamic Party) Yunis Khalis Faction;
    Ittihad-i-Islami Barai Azadi Afghanistan (Islamic Union for the Liberation
    of Afghanistan), Abdul Rasul SAYYAF; Harakat-Inqilab-i-Islami (Islamic
    Revolutionary Movement), Mohammad Nabi MOHAMMADI; Jabha-i-Najat-i-Milli
    Afghanistan (Afghanistan National Liberation Front), Sibghatullah MOJADDEDI;
    Mahaz-i-Milli-Islami (National Islamic Front), Sayed Ahamad GAILANI;
    Jonbesh-i-Milli Islami (National Islamic Movement), Ahmad Shah MASOOD and
    Rashid DOSTAM; Hizbi Wahdat (Islamic Unity Party), and a number of minor
    resistance parties; the former ruling Watan Party has been disbanded
Suffrage:
    undetermined; previously universal, male ages 15-50
Elections:
    the transition government has promised elections in October 1992
Communists:
    the former ruling Watan (Homeland) Party has been disbanded

:Afghanistan Government

Other political or pressure groups:
    the former resistance commanders are the major power brokers in the
    countryside; shuras (councils) of commanders are now administering most
    cities outside Kabul; ulema (religious scholars); tribal elders
Member of:
    Has previously been a member of AsDB, CP, ESCAP, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD,
    ICAO, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, INTELSAT, IOC, ITU, LORCS, NAM, OIC,
    UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WMO, WTO; note - the new
    government has not yet announced whether it will continue to be a member of
    these bodies; the former resistance government in exile (Afghan Interim
    Government) was given membership in the OIC in 1989
Diplomatic representation:
    previous Minister-Counselor, Charge d'Affaires Abdul Ghafur JOUSHAN;
    Chancery at 2341 Wyoming Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202)
    234-3770 or 3771; a new representative has not yet been named
  US:
    Charge d'Affaires (vacant); Embassy at Ansari Wat, Wazir Akbar Khan Mina,
    Kabul; telephone 62230 through 62235 or 62436; note - US Embassy in Kabul
    was closed in January 1989
Flag:
    a new flag of unknown description reportedly has been adopted; previous flag
    consisted of three equal horizontal bands of black (top), red, and green,
    with the national coat of arms superimposed on the hoist side of the black
    and red bands; similar to the flag of Malawi, which is shorter and bears a
    radiant, rising red sun centered in the black band

:Afghanistan Economy

Overview:
    Fundamentally, Afghanistan is an extremely poor, landlocked country, highly
    dependent on farming (wheat especially) and livestock raising (sheep and
    goats). Economic considerations, however, have played second fiddle to
    political and military upheavals during more than 13 years of war, including
    the nearly 10-year Soviet military occupation (which ended 15 February
    1989). Over the past decade, one-third of the population fled the country,
    with Pakistan sheltering more than 3 million refugees and Iran about 1.3
    million. Another 1 million probably moved into and around urban areas within
    Afghanistan. Although reliable data are unavailable, gross domestic product
    is lower than 12 years ago because of the loss of labor and capital and the
    disruption of trade and transport.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $3 billion, per capita $200; real growth rate 0%
    (1989 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    over 90% (1991 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    NA%
Budget:
    revenues NA; expenditures NA, including capital expenditures of NA
Exports:
    $236 million (f.o.b., FY91 est.)
  commodities:
    natural gas 55%, fruits and nuts 24%, handwoven carpets, wool, cotton,
    hides, and pelts
  partners:
    mostly former USSR
Imports:
    $874 million (c.i.f., FY91 est.)
  commodities:
    food and petroleum products
  partners:
    mostly former USSR
External debt:
    $2.3 billion (March 1991 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 2.3% (FY91 est.); accounts for about 25% of GDP
Electricity:
    480,000 kW capacity; 1,450 million kWh produced, 90 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    small-scale production of textiles, soap, furniture, shoes, fertilizer, and
    cement; handwoven carpets; natural gas, oil, coal, copper
Agriculture:
    largely subsistence farming and nomadic animal husbandry; cash products -
    wheat, fruits, nuts, karakul pelts, wool, mutton
Illicit drugs:
    an illicit producer of opium poppy and cannabis for the international drug
    trade; world's second-largest opium producer (after Burma) and a major
    source of hashish
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $380 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $510 million; OPEC
    bilateral aid (1979-89), $57 million; Communist countries (1970-89), $4.1
    billion; net official Western disbursements (1985-89), $270 million
Currency:
    afghani (plural - afghanis); 1 afghani (Af) = 100 puls

:Afghanistan Economy

Exchange rates:
    afghanis (Af) per US$1 - 550 (May 1992, free market exchange rate), 900
    (free market exchange rate as of November 1991), 850 (1991), 700 (1989-90),
    220 (1988-89); note - these rates reflect the bazaar rates rather than the
    official exchange rates
Fiscal year:
    21 March - 20 March

:Afghanistan Communications

Railroads:
    9.6 km (single track) 1.524-meter gauge from Kushka (Turkmenistan) to
    Towraghondi and 15.0 km from Termez (Uzbekistan) to Kheyrabad transshipment
    point on south bank of Amu Darya
Highways:
    21,000 km total (1984); 2,800 km hard surface, 1,650 km bituminous-treated
    gravel and improved earth, 16,550 km unimproved earth and tracks
Inland waterways:
    total navigability 1,200 km; chiefly Amu Darya, which handles steamers up to
    about 500 metric tons
Pipelines:
    petroleum products - former USSR to Bagram and former USSR to Shindand;
    natural gas 180 km
Ports:
    Shir Khan and Kheyrabad (river ports)
Civil air:
    2 Tu-154, 2 Boeing 727, 4 Yak-40, assorted smaller transports
Airports:
    41 total, 37 usable; 9 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 10 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 18 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    limited telephone, telegraph, and radiobroadcast services; television
    introduced in 1980; 31,200 telephones; broadcast stations - 5 AM, no FM, 1
    TV; 1 satellite earth station

:Afghanistan Defense Forces

Branches:
    the military currently is being reorganized by the new government and does
    not yet exist on a national scale; some elements of the former Army, Air and
    Air Defense Forces, National Guard, Border Guard Forces, National Police
    Force (Sarandoi), and Tribal Militias remain intact and are supporting the
    new government; the government has asked all military personnel to return to
    their stations; a large number of former resistance groups also field
    irregular military forces; the Ministry of State Security (WAD) has been
    disbanded
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 3,989,232; 2,139,771 fit for military service; 150,572 reach
    military age (22) annually
Defense expenditures:
    the new government has not yet adopted a defense budget

:Albania Geography

Total area:
    28,750 km2
Land area:
    27,400 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than Maryland
Land boundaries:
    720 km total; Greece 282 km, Macedonia 151 km, Serbia and Montenegro 287 km
    (114 km with Serbia, 173 km with Montenegro)
Coastline:
    362 km
Maritime claims:
  Continental shelf:
    not specified
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    Kosovo question with Serbia and Montenegro; Northern Epirus question with
    Greece
Climate:
    mild temperate; cool, cloudy, wet winters; hot, clear, dry summers; interior
    is cooler and wetter
Terrain:
    mostly mountains and hills; small plains along coast
Natural resources:
    crude oil, natural gas, coal, chromium, copper, timber, nickel
Land use:
    arable land 21%; permanent crops 4%; meadows and pastures 15%; forest and
    woodland 38%; other 22%; includes irrigated 1%
Environment:
    subject to destructive earthquakes; tsunami occur along southwestern coast
Note:
    strategic location along Strait of Otranto (links Adriatic Sea to Ionian Sea
    and Mediterranean Sea)

:Albania People

Population:
    3,285,224 (July 1992), growth rate 1.1% (1992)
Birth rate:
    23 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    5 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    --6 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    27 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    71 years male, 78 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    2.8 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Albanian(s); adjective - Albanian
Ethnic divisions:
    Albanian 90%, Greeks 8%, other 2% (Vlachs, Gypsies, Serbs, and Bulgarians)
    (1989 est.)
Religions:
    all mosques and churches were closed in 1967 and religious observances
    prohibited; in November 1990, Albania began allowing private religious
    practice; estimates of religious affiliation - Muslim 70%, Greek Orthodox
    20%, Roman Catholic 10%
Languages:
    Albanian (Tosk is official dialect), Greek
Literacy:
    72% (male 80%, female 63%) age 9 and over can read and write (1955)
Labor force:
    1,500,000 (1987); agriculture about 60%, industry and commerce 40% (1986)
Organized labor:
    Independent Trade Union Federation of Albania; Confederation of Trade Unions

:Albania Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Albania
Type:
    nascent democracy
Capital:
    Tirane
Administrative divisions:
    26 districts (rrethe, singular - rreth); Berat, Dibre, Durres, Elbasan,
    Fier, Gjirokaster, Gramsh, Kolonje, Kore, Kruje, Kukes, Lezhe, Librazhd,
    Lushnje, Mat, Mirdite, Permet, Pogradec, Puke, Sarande, Shkoder, Skrapar,
    Tepelene, Tirane, Tropoje, Vlore
Independence:
    28 November 1912 (from Ottoman Empire); People's Socialist Republic of
    Albania declared 11 January 1946
Constitution:
    an interim basic law was approved by the People's Assembly on 29 April 1991;
    a new constitution is to be drafted for adoption in 1992
Legal system:
    has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
National holiday:
    Liberation Day, 29 November (1944)
Executive branch:
    president, prime minister of the Council of Ministers, two deputy prime
    ministers of the Council of Ministers
Legislative branch:
    unicameral People's Assembly (Kuvendi Popullor)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President of the Republic Sali BERISHA (since 9 April 1992)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister of the Council of Ministers Aleksander MEKSI (since 10 April
    1992)
Political parties and leaders:
    there are at least 18 political parties; most prominent are the Albanian
    Socialist Party (ASP), Fatos NANO, first secretary; Democratic Party (DP),
    Eduard SELAMI, chairman; Albanian Republican Party (RP), Sabri GODO; Omonia
    (Greek minority party), leader NA (ran in 1992 election as Unity for Human
    Rights Party (UHP)); Social Democratic Party (SDP), Skender GJINUSHI; note -
    in December 1990 then President ALIA allowed new political parties to be
    formed in addition to the then AWP for the first time since 1944
Suffrage:
    universal and compulsory at age 18
Elections:
  People's Assembly:
    last held 22 March 1992; results - DP 62.29%, ASP 25.57%, SDP 4.33%, RP
    3.15%, UHP 2.92%, other 1.74%; seats - (140 total) DP 92, ASP 38, SDP 7, RP
    1, UHP 2
Member of:
    CSCE, EBRD, ECE, FAO, IAEA, IBRD, IMF, INTERPOL, IOC, ISO, ITU, LORCS, OIC,
    UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WMO
Diplomatic representation:
    Minister-Counselor, Charge d'Affaires ad interim (30 April 1991) Sazan Hyda
    BEJO; chancery (temporary) at 320 East 79th Street, New York, NY 10021;
    telephone (212) 249-2059
  US:
    Ambassador (vacant); Embassy at Rruga Labinoti 103, room 2921, Tirane
    (mailing address is APO AE 09624); telephone 355-42-32875; FAX 355-42-32222

:Albania Government

Flag:
    red with a black two-headed eagle in the center

:Albania Economy

Overview:
    The Albanian economy, already providing the lowest standard of living in
    Europe, contracted sharply in 1991, with most industries producing at only a
    fraction of past levels and an unemployment rate estimated at 40%. For over
    40 years, the Stalinist-type economy has operated on the principle of
    central planning and state ownership of the means of production. Albania
    began fitful economic reforms during 1991, including the liberalization of
    prices and trade, the privatization of shops and transport, and land reform.
    These reform measures were crippled, however, by the widespread civil
    disorder that accompanied the collapse of the Communist state. Following
    their overwhelming victory in the 22 March 1991 elections, the new
    Democratic government announced a program of shock therapy to stabilize the
    economy and establish a market economy. In an effort to expand international
    ties, Tirane has reestablished diplomatic relations with the former Soviet
    Union and the US and has joined the IMF and World Bank. The Albanians have
    also passed legislation allowing foreign investment. Albania possesses
    considerable mineral resources and, until 1990, was largely self-sufficient
    in food; however, the breakup of cooperative farms in 1991 and general
    economic decline forced Albania to rely on foreign aid to maintain adequate
    supplies. Available statistics on Albanian economic activity are rudimentary
    and subject to an especially wide margin of error.
GNP:
    purchasing power equivalent - $2.7 billion, per capita $820; real growth
    rate --35% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    100% (1991 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    40% (1992 est.)
Budget:
    revenues $1.1 billion; expenditures $1.4 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $70 million (1991 est.)
Exports:
    $80 million (f.o.b., 1991 est.)
  commodities:
    asphalt, petroleum products, metals and metallic ores, electricity, crude
    oil, vegetables, fruits, tobacco
  partners:
    Italy, Yugoslavia, Germany, Greece, Czechoslovakia, Poland, Romania,
    Bulgaria, Hungary
Imports:
    $147 million (f.o.b., 1991 est.)
  commodities:
    machinery, machine tools, iron and steel products, textiles, chemicals,
    pharmaceuticals
  partners:
    Italy, Yugoslavia, Germany, Czechoslovakia, Romania, Poland, Hungary,
    Bulgaria
External debt:
    $500 million (1991 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate --55% (1991 est.)
Electricity:
    1,690,000 kW capacity; 5,000 million kWh produced, 1,530 kWh per capita
    (1990)
Industries:
    food processing, textiles and clothing, lumber, oil, cement, chemicals,
    basic metals, hydropower

:Albania Economy

Agriculture:
    arable land per capita among lowest in Europe; over 60% of arable land now
    in private hands; one-half of work force engaged in farming; wide range of
    temperate-zone crops and livestock; severe dislocations suffered in 1991
Economic aid:
    $190 million humanitarian aid, $94 million in loans/guarantees/credits
Currency:
    lek (plural - leke); 1 lek (L) = 100 qintars
Exchange rates:
    leke (L) per US$1 - 50 (January 1992), 25 (September 1991)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Albania Communications

Railroads:
    543 km total; 509 1.435-meter standard gauge, single track and 34 km narrow
    gauge, single track (1990); line connecting Titograd (Serbia and Montenegro)
    and Shkoder (Albania) completed August 1986
Highways:
    16,700 km total; 6,700 km highways, 10,000 km forest and agricultural cart
    roads (1990)
Inland waterways:
    43 km plus Albanian sections of Lake Scutari, Lake Ohrid, and Lake Prespa
    (1990)
Pipelines:
    crude oil 145 km; petroleum products 55 km; natural gas 64 km (1988)
Ports:
    Durres, Sarande, Vlore
Merchant marine:
    11 cargo ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 52,886 GRT/76,449 DWT
Airports:
    12 total, 10 usable; more than 5 with permanent-surface runways; more than 5
    with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 5 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    inadequate service; 15,000 telephones; broadcast stations - 13 AM, 1 TV;
    514,000 radios, 255,000 TVs (1987 est.)

:Albania Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Coastal Defense Command, Air and Air Defense Forces, Interior Ministry
    Troops, Border Troops
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 886,032; 731,072 fit for military service; 33,028 reach
    military age (19) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - 1.0 billion leks, NA% of GNP (FY90); note -
    conversion of defense expenditures into US dollars using the current
    exchange rate could produce misleading results

:Algeria Geography

Total area:
    2,381,740 km2
Land area:
    2,381,740 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly less than 3.5 times the size of Texas
Land boundaries:
    6,343 km total; Libya 982 km, Mali 1,376 km, Mauritania 463 km, Morocco
    1,559 km, Niger 956 km, Tunisia 965 km, Western Sahara 42 km
Coastline:
    998 km
Maritime claims:
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    Libya claims about 19,400 km2 in southeastern Algeria; land boundary
    disputes with Tunisia under discussion
Climate:
    arid to semiarid; mild, wet winters with hot, dry summers along coast; drier
    with cold winters and hot summers on high plateau; sirocco is a hot,
    dust/sand-laden wind especially common in summer
Terrain:
    mostly high plateau and desert; some mountains; narrow, discontinuous
    coastal plain
Natural resources:
    crude oil, natural gas, iron ore, phosphates, uranium, lead, zinc
Land use:
    arable land 3%; permanent crops NEGL%; meadows and pastures 13%; forest and
    woodland 2%; other 82%; includes irrigated NEGL%
Environment:
    mountainous areas subject to severe earthquakes; desertification
Note:
    second-largest country in Africa (after Sudan)

:Algeria People

Population:
    26,666,921 (July 1992), growth rate 2.5% (1992)
Birth rate:
    31 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    7 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    56 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    66 years male, 68 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    4.1 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Algerian(s); adjective - Algerian
Ethnic divisions:
    Arab-Berber 99%, European less than 1%
Religions:
    Sunni Muslim (state religion) 99%, Christian and Jewish 1%
Languages:
    Arabic (official), French, Berber dialects
Literacy:
    50% (male 63%, female 36%) age 15 and over can read and write (1987)
Labor force:
    3,700,000; industry and commerce 40%, agriculture 24%, government 17%,
    services 10% (1984)
Organized labor:
    16-19% of labor force claimed; General Union of Algerian Workers (UGTA) is
    the only labor organization and is subordinate to the National Liberation
    Front

:Algeria Government

Long-form name:
    Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Algiers
Administrative divisions:
    48 provinces (wilayast, singular - wilaya); Adrar, Ain Defla, Ain
    Temouchent, Alger, Annaba, Batna, Bechar, Bejaia, Biskra, Blida, Bordj Bou
    Arreridj, Bouira, Boumerdes, Chlef, Constantine, Djelfa, El Bayadh, El Oued,
    El Tarf, Ghardaia, Guelma, Illizi, Jijel, Khenchela, Laghouat, Mascara,
    Medea, Mila, Mostaganem, M'Sila, Naama, Oran, Ouargla, Oum el Bouaghi,
    Relizane, Saida, Setif, Sidi Bel Abbes, Skikda, Souk Ahras, Tamanghasset,
    Tebessa, Tiaret, Tindouf, Tipaza, Tissemsilt, Tizi Ouzou, Tlemcen
Independence:
    5 July 1962 (from France)
Constitution:
    19 November 1976, effective 22 November 1976; revised February 1989
Legal system:
    socialist, based on French and Islamic law; judicial review of legislative
    acts in ad hoc Constitutional Council composed of various public officials,
    including several Supreme Court justices; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
    jurisdiction
National holiday:
    Anniversary of the Revolution, 1 November (1954)
Executive branch:
    president, prime minister, Council of Ministers (cabinet)
Legislative branch:
    unicameral National People's Assembly (Al-Majlis Ech-Chaabi Al-Watani)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court (Cour Supreme)
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Mohamed BOUDIAF; assassinated 29 June 1992
  Head of Government:
    Interim Prime Minister Sid Ahmed GHOZALI (since 6 June 1991)
Political parties and leaders:
    National Liberation Front (FLN); Socialist Forces Front (FFS), Hocine Ait
    AHMED, Secretary General; the government established a multiparty system in
    September 1989, and, as of 31 December 1990, over 30 legal parties existed
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  National People's Assembly:
    first round held on 26 December 1991 (second round canceled by the military
    after President BENJEDID resigned 11 January 1992); results - percent of
    vote by party NA; seats - (281 total); the fundamentalist FIS won 188 of the
    231 seats contested in the first round; note - elections (municipal and
    wilaya) were held in June 1990, the first in Algerian history; results - FIS
    55%, FLN 27.5%, other 17.5%, with 65% of the voters participating
  President:
    next election to be held December 1993
Communists:
    400 (est.); Communist party banned 1962
Member of:
    ABEDA, AfDB, AFESD, AL, AMF, AMU, CCC, ECA, FAO, G-15, G-24, G-77, IAEA,
    IBRD, ICAO, IDA, IDB, IFAD, ILO, IMF, IMO, INMARSAT, INTELSAT, INTERPOL,
    IOC, ISO, ITU, LORCS, NAM, OAPEC, OAS (observer), OAU, OIC, OPEC, UN,
    UNAVEM, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

:Algeria Government

Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Abderrahmane BENSID; Chancery at 2118 Kalorama Road NW,
    Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 265-2800
  US:
    Ambassador Mary Ann CASEY; Embassy at 4 Chemin Cheich Bachir El-Ibrahimi,
    Algiers (mailing address is B. P. Box 549, Alger-Gare, 16000 Algiers);
    telephone [213] (2) 601-425 or 255, 186; FAX [213] (2) 603979; there is a US
    Consulate in Oran
Flag:
    two equal vertical bands of green (hoist side) and white with a red
    five-pointed star within a red crescent; the crescent, star, and color green
    are traditional symbols of Islam (the state religion)

:Algeria Economy

Overview:
    The oil and natural gas sector forms the backbone of the economy. Algeria
    depends on hydrocarbons for nearly all of its export receipts, about 30% of
    government revenues, and nearly 25% of GDP. In 1973-74 the sharp increase in
    oil prices led to a booming economy and helped to finance an ambitious
    program of industrialization. Plunging oil and gas prices, combined with the
    mismanagement of Algeria's highly centralized economy, has brought the
    nation to its most serious social and economic crisis since independence in
    1988. The government has promised far-reaching reforms, including
    privatization of some public- sector companies, encouraging private-sector
    activity, boosting gas and nonhydrocarbon exports, and proposing a major
    overhaul of the banking and financial systems, but to date it has made only
    limited progress.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $54 billion, per capita $2,130; real growth rate
    2.5% (1990 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    30% (1991 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    30% (1991 est.)
Budget:
    revenues $16.7 billion; expenditures $17.3 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $6.6 billion (1990 est.)
Exports:
    $11.7 billion (f.o.b., 1991 est.)
  commodities:
    petroleum and natural gas 97%
  partners:
    Netherlands, Czechoslovakia, Romania, Italy, France, US
Imports:
    $9 billion (f.o.b., 1991 est.)
  commodities:
    capital goods 29%, consumer goods 30%
  partners:
    France 25%, Italy 8%, FRG 8%, US 6-7%
External debt:
    $26.4 billion
Industrial production:
    growth rate --3% (1989 est.); accounts for 30% of GDP, including petroleum
Electricity:
    6,380,000 kW capacity; 16,700 million kWh produced, 640 kWh per capita
    (1991)
Industries:
    petroleum, light industries, natural gas, mining, electrical, petrochemical,
    food processing
Agriculture:
    accounts for 11% of GDP and employs 24% of labor force; net importer of food
    - grain, vegetable oil, and sugar; farm production includes wheat, barley,
    oats, grapes, olives, citrus, fruits, sheep, and cattle
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-85), $1.4 billion; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $925 million; OPEC
    bilateral aid (1979-89), $1.8 billion; Communist countries (1970-89), $2.7
    billion; net official disbursements (1985-89), --$375 million
Currency:
    Algerian dinar (plural - dinars); 1 Algerian dinar (DA) = 100 centimes
Exchange rates:
    Algerian dinars (DA) per US$1 - 21.862 (January 1992), 18.473 (1991), 8.958
    (1990), 7.6086 (1989), 5.9148 (1988), 4.8497 (1987)

:Algeria Economy

Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Algeria Communications

Railroads:
    4,060 km total; 2,616 km standard gauge (1.435 m), 1,188 km 1.055-meter
    gauge, 256 km 1.000-meter gauge; 300 km electrified; 215 km double track
Highways:
    80,000 km total; 60,000 km concrete or bituminous, 20,000 km gravel, crushed
    stone, unimproved earth
Pipelines:
    crude oil 6,612 km; petroleum products 298 km; natural gas 2,948 km
Ports:
    Algiers, Annaba, Arzew, Bejaia, Djendjene, Ghazaouet, Jijel, Mers el Kebir,
    Mostaganem, Oran, Skikda
Merchant marine:
    75 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 903,179 GRT/1,064,246 DWT; includes 5
    short-sea passenger, 27 cargo, 12 roll-on/roll-off cargo, 5 petroleum
    tanker, 9 liquefied gas, 7 chemical tanker, 9 bulk, 1 specialized tanker
Civil air:
    42 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    141 total, 124 usable; 53 with permanent-surface runways; 2 with runways
    over 3,659 m; 32 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 65 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    excellent domestic and international service in the north, sparse in the
    south; 822,000 telephones; broadcast stations - 26 AM, no FM, 18 TV;
    1,600,000 TV sets; 5,200,000 radios; 5 submarine cables; radio relay to
    Italy, France, Spain, Morocco, and Tunisia; coaxial cable to Morocco and
    Tunisia; satellite earth stations - 1 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT, 1 Indian
    Ocean INTELSAT, 1 Intersputnik, l ARABSAT, and 15 domestic

:Algeria Defense Forces

Branches:
    National Popular Army, Navy, Air Force, Territorial Air Defense, National
    Gendarmerie
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 6,386,157; 3,928,029 fit for military service; 283,068 reach
    military age (19) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $867 million, approximately 1.8% of GDP (1992)

:American Samoa Geography

Total area:
    199 km2
Land area:
    199 km2; includes Rose Island and Swains Island
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    116 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    12 nm
  Continental shelf:
    200 m (depth)
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    tropical marine, moderated by southeast trade winds; annual rainfall
    averages 124 inches; rainy season from November to April, dry season from
    May to October; little seasonal temperature variation
Terrain:
    five volcanic islands with rugged peaks and limited coastal plains, two
    coral atolls
Natural resources:
    pumice and pumicite
Land use:
    arable land 10%; permanent crops 5%; meadows and pastures 0%; forest and
    woodland 75%; other 10%
Environment:
    typhoons common from December to March
Note:
    Pago Pago has one of the best natural deepwater harbors in the South Pacific
    Ocean, sheltered by shape from rough seas and protected by peripheral
    mountains from high winds; strategic location about 3,700 km south-southwest
    of Honolulu in the South Pacific Ocean about halfway between Hawaii and New
    Zealand

:American Samoa People

Population:
    51,115 (July 1992), growth rate 3.9% (1992); about 65,000 American Samoans
    live in the states of California and Washington and 20,000 in Hawaii
Birth rate:
    37 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    4 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    6 immigrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    19 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    71 years male, 75 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    4.5 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - American Samoan(s); adjective - American Samoan; US, noncitizen
    nationals
Ethnic divisions:
    Samoan (Polynesian) 90%, Caucasian 2%, Tongan 2%, other 6%
Religions:
    Christian Congregationalist 50%, Roman Catholic 20%, Protestant
    denominations and other 30%
Languages:
    Samoan (closely related to Hawaiian and other Polynesian languages) and
    English; most people are bilingual
Literacy:
    97% (male 97%, female 97%) age 15 and over can read and write (1980)
Labor force:
    14,400 (1990); government 48%, tuna canneries 33%, other 19% (1986 est.)
Organized labor:
    NA

:American Samoa Government

Long-form name:
    Territory of American Samoa
Type:
    unincorporated and unorganized territory of the US;
    administered by the US Department of Interior, Office of Territorial and
    International Affairs; indigenous inhabitants are US nationals, not citizens
    of the US
Capital:
    Pago Pago
Administrative divisions:
    none (territory of the US)
Independence:
    none (territory of the US)
Constitution:
    ratified 1966, in effect 1967; note - a comprehensive revision is awaiting
    ratification by the US Congress (1992)
National holiday:
    Territorial Flag Day, 17 April (1900)
Executive branch:
    popularly elected governor and lieutenant governor
Legislative branch:
    bicameral Legislative Assembly (Fono) consists of an upper house or Senate
    and a lower house or House of Representatives
Judicial branch:
    High Court, district courts, and village courts
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President George BUSH (since 20 January 1989); Vice President Dan QUAYLE
    (since 20 January 1989)
  Head of Government:
    Governor Peter Tali COLEMAN (since 20 January 1989); Lieutenant Governor
    Galea'i POUMELE (since NA 1989)
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18; indigenous inhabitants are US nationals, not US
    citizens
Elections:
  Governor:
    last held 7 November 1988 (next to be held November 1992); results - Peter
    T. COLEMAN was elected (percent of vote NA)
  House of Representatives:
    last held November 1990 (next to be held November 1992); results -
    representatives popularly elected from 17 house districts; seats - (21
    total, 20 elected, and 1 nonvoting delegate from Swain's Island)
  Senate:
    last held 7 November 1988 (next to be held November 1992); results -
    senators elected by county councils from 12 senate districts; seats - (18
    total) number of seats by party NA
  US House of Representatives:
    last held 19 November 1990 (next to be held November 1992); results - Eni R.
    F. H. FALEOMAVAEGA reelected as a nonvoting delegate
Member of:
    ESCAP, IOC, SPC
Diplomatic representation:
    none (territory of the US)
Flag:
    blue with a white triangle edged in red that is based on the fly side and
    extends to the hoist side; a brown and white American bald eagle flying
    toward the hoist side is carrying two traditional Samoan symbols of
    authority, a staff and a war club

:American Samoa Economy

Overview:
    Economic development is strongly linked to the US, with which American Samoa
    does nearly 90% of its foreign trade. Tuna fishing and tuna processing
    plants are the backbone of the private-sector economy, with canned tuna the
    primary export. The tuna canneries and the government are by far the two
    largest employers. Other economic activities include a slowly developing
    tourist industry.
GNP:
    purchasing power equivalent - $128 million, per capita $2,500; real growth
    rate NA% (1990)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    4.3% (1989)
Unemployment rate:
    12% (1991)
Budget:
    revenues $126,394,000 (consisting of $46,441,000 local revenue and
    $79,953,000 grant revenue); including capital expenditures of $NA million
    (1990)
Exports:
    $307 million (f.o.b., 1989)
  commodities:
    canned tuna 93%
  partners:
    US 99.6%
Imports:
    $377.9 million (c.i.f., 1989)
  commodities:
    materials for canneries 56%, food 8%, petroleum 7%, machinery and parts 6%
  partners:
    US 72%, Japan 7%, NZ 7%, Australia 5%, other 9%
External debt:
    $NA
Industrial production:
    growth rate NA%
Electricity:
    42,000 kW capacity; 85 million kWh produced, 2,020 kWh per capita (1990)
Industries:
    tuna canneries (largely dependent on foreign supplies of raw tuna), meat
    canning, handicrafts
Agriculture:
    bananas, coconuts, vegetables, taro, breadfruit, yams, copra, pineapples,
    papayas, dairy farming
Economic aid:
    $21,042,650 in operational funds and $5,948,931 in construction funds for
    capital improvement projects from the US Department of Interior (1991)
Currency:
    US currency is used
Exchange rates:
    US currency is used
Fiscal year:
    1 October - 30 September

:American Samoa Communications

Railroads:
    none
Highways:
    350 km total; 150 km paved, 200 km unpaved
Ports:
    Pago Pago, Ta'u
Airports:
    4 total, 4 usable; 2 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways over
    3,659 m; 1 with runways 2,440 to 3,659 m (international airport at Tafuna,
    near Pago Pago); small airstrips on Ta'u and Ofu
Telecommunications:
    6,500 telephones; broadcast stations - 1 AM, 2 FM, 1 TV; good telex,
    telegraph, and facsimile services; 1 Pacific Ocean INTELSAT earth station, 1
    COMSAT earth station

:American Samoa Defense Forces

Note:
    defense is the responsibility of the US

:Andorra Geography

Total area:
    450 km2
Land area:
    450 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly more than 2.5 times the size of Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    125 km total; France 60 km, Spain 65 km
Coastline:
    none - landlocked
Maritime claims:
    none - landlocked
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    temperate; snowy, cold winters and cool, dry summers
Terrain:
    rugged mountains dissected by narrow valleys
Natural resources:
    hydropower, mineral water, timber, iron ore, lead
Land use:
    arable land 2%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 56%; forest and
    woodland 22%; other 20%
Environment:
    deforestation, overgrazing
Note:
    landlocked

:Andorra People

Population:
    54,428 (July 1992), growth rate 2.2% (1992)
Birth rate:
    11 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    4 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    15 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    7 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    74 years male, 81 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    1.3 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Andorran(s); adjective - Andorran
Ethnic divisions:
    Catalan stock; Spanish 61%, Andorran 30%, French 6%, other 3%
Religions:
    virtually all Roman Catholic
Languages:
    Catalan (official); many also speak some French and Castilian
Literacy:
    NA% (male NA%, female NA%)
Labor force:
    NA
Organized labor:
    none

:Andorra Government

Long-form name:
    Principality of Andorra
Type:
    unique coprincipality under formal sovereignty of president of France and
    Spanish bishop of Seo de Urgel, who are represented locally by officials
    called veguers
Capital:
    Andorra la Vella
Administrative divisions:
    7 parishes (parroquies, singular - parroquia); Andorra, Canillo, Encamp, La
    Massana, Les Escaldes, Ordino, Sant Julia de Loria
Independence:
    1278
Constitution:
    none; some pareatges and decrees, mostly custom and usage
Legal system:
    based on French and Spanish civil codes; no judicial review of legislative
    acts; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
National holiday:
    Mare de Deu de Meritxell, 8 September
Executive branch:
    two co-princes (president of France, bishop of Seo de Urgel in Spain), two
    designated representatives (French veguer, Episcopal veguer), two permanent
    delegates (French prefect for the department of Pyrenees-Orientales, Spanish
    vicar general for the Seo de Urgel diocese), president of government,
    Executive Council
Legislative branch:
    unicameral General Council of the Valleys (Consell General de las Valls)
Judicial branch:
    civil cases - Supreme Court of Andorra at Perpignan (France) or the
    Ecclesiastical Court of the bishop of Seo de Urgel (Spain); criminal cases -
    Tribunal of the Courts (Tribunal des Cortes)
Leaders:
  Chiefs of State:
    French Co-Prince Francois MITTERRAND (since 21 May 1981), represented by
    Veguer de Franca Jean Pierre COURTOIS; Spanish Episcopal Co-Prince Mgr. Joan
    MARTI y Alanis (since 31 January 1971), represented by Veguer Episcopal
    Francesc BADIA Batalla
  Head of Government:
    Oscar RIBAS Reig (since January 1990)
Political parties and leaders:
    political parties not yet legally recognized; traditionally no political
    parties but partisans for particular independent candidates for the General
    Council on the basis of competence, personality, and orientation toward
    Spain or France; various small pressure groups developed in 1972; first
    formal political party, Andorran Democratic Association, was formed in 1976
    and reorganized in 1979 as Andorran Democratic Party
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  General Council of the Valleys:
    last held 11 December 1989 (next to be held December 1993); results -
    percent of vote by party NA; seats - (28 total) number of seats by party NA
Member of:
    INTERPOL, IOC
Diplomatic representation:
    Andorra has no mission in the US

:Andorra Government

  US:
    includes Andorra within the Barcelona (Spain) Consular District, and the US
    Consul General visits Andorra periodically; Consul General Carolee HEILEMAN;
    Consulate General at Via Layetana 33, 08003 Barcelona (mailing address APO
    AE 09646); telephone [34] (3) 319-9550
Flag:
    three equal vertical bands of blue (hoist side), yellow, and red with the
    national coat of arms centered in the yellow band; the coat of arms features
    a quartered shield; similar to the flags of Chad and Romania that do not
    have a national coat of arms in the center

:Andorra Economy

Overview:
    The mainstay of Andorra's economy is tourism. An estimated 13 million
    tourists visit annually, attracted by Andorra's duty-free status and by its
    summer and winter resorts. Agricultural production is limited by a scarcity
    of arable land, and most food has to be imported. The principal livestock
    activity is sheep raising. Manufacturing consists mainly of cigarettes,
    cigars, and furniture. The rapid pace of European economic integration is a
    potential threat to Andorra's advantages from its duty-free status.
GDP:
    purchasing power equivalent - $727 million, per capita $14,000; real growth
    rate NA% (1990 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    NA%
Unemployment rate:
    none
Budget:
    revenues $NA; expenditures $NA, including capital expenditures of $NA
Exports:
    $0.017 million (f.o.b., 1986)
  commodities:
    electricity
  partners:
    France, Spain
Imports:
    $531 million (f.o.b., 1986)
  commodities:
    consumer goods, food
  partners:
    France, Spain
External debt:
    $NA
Industrial production:
    growth rate NA%
Electricity:
    35,000 kW capacity; 140 million kWh produced, 2,800 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    tourism (particularly skiing), sheep, timber, tobacco, banking
Agriculture:
    sheep raising; small quantities of tobacco, rye, wheat, barley, oats, and
    some vegetables
Economic aid:
    none
Currency:
    French franc (plural - francs) and Spanish peseta (plural - pesetas); 1
    French franc (F) = 100 centimes and 1 Spanish peseta (Pta) = 100 centimos
Exchange rates:
    French francs (F) per US$1 - 5.3801 January (1992), 5.6421 (1991), 5.4453
    (1990), 6.3801 (1989), 5.9569 (1988), 6.0107 (1987); Spanish pesetas (Ptas)
    per US$1 - 100.02 (January 1992), 103.91 (1991), 101.93 (1990), 118.38
    (1989), 116.49 (1988), 123.48 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Andorra Communications

Highways:
    96 km
Telecommunications:
    international digital microwave network; international landline circuits to
    France and Spain; broadcast stations - 1 AM, no FM, no TV; 17,700 telephones

:Andorra Defense Forces

Note:
    defense is the responsibility of France and Spain

:Angola Geography

Total area:
    1,246,700 km2
Land area:
    1,246,700 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly less than twice the size of Texas
Land boundaries:
    5,198 km total; Congo 201 km, Namibia 1,376 km, Zaire 2,511 km, Zambia 1,110
    km
Coastline:
    1,600 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive fishing zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    20 nm
Disputes:
    civil war since independence on 11 November 1975; on 31 May 1991 Angolan
    President Jose Eduardo dos SANTOS and Jonas SAVIMBI, leader of the National
    Union for the Total Independence of Angola (UNITA), signed a peace treaty
    that calls for multiparty elections in late September 1992, an
    internationally monitored cease-fire, and termination of outside military
    assistance
Climate:
    semiarid in south and along coast to Luanda; north has cool, dry season (May
    to October) and hot, rainy season (November to April)
Terrain:
    narrow coastal plain rises abruptly to vast interior plateau
Natural resources:
    petroleum, diamonds, iron ore, phosphates, copper, feldspar, gold, bauxite,
    uranium
Land use:
    arable land 2%; permanent crops NEGL%; meadows and pastures 23%; forest and
    woodland 43%; other 32%
Environment:
    locally heavy rainfall causes periodic flooding on plateau; desertification
Note:
    Cabinda is separated from rest of country by Zaire

:Angola People

Population:
    8,902,076 (July 1992), growth rate 2.7% (1992)
Birth rate:
    46 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    19 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    NEGL migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    152 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    43 years male, 47 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    6.6 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Angolan(s); adjective - Angolan
Ethnic divisions:
    Ovimbundu 37%, Kimbundu 25%, Bakongo 13%, Mestico 2%,European 1%, other 22%
Religions:
    indigenous beliefs 47%, Roman Catholic 38%, Protestant 15% (est.)
Languages:
    Portuguese (official); various Bantu dialects
Literacy:
    42% (male 56%, female 28%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    2,783,000 economically active; agriculture 85%, industry 15% (1985 est.)
Organized labor:
    about 450,695 (1980)

:Angola Government

Long-form name:
    People's Republic of Angola
Type:
    in transition from a one-party Marxist state to a multiparty democracy with
    a strong presidential system
Capital:
    Luanda
Administrative divisions:
    18 provinces (provincias, singular - provincia); Bengo, Benguela, Bie,
    Cabinda, Cuando Cubango, Cuanza Norte, Cuanza Sul, Cunene, Huambo, Huila,
    Luanda, Lunda Norte, Lunda Sul, Malanje, Moxico, Namibe, Uige, Zaire
Independence:
    11 November 1975 (from Portugal)
Constitution:
    11 November 1975; revised 7 January 1978, 11 August 1980, and 6 March 1991
Legal system:
    based on Portuguese civil law system and customary law; recently modified to
    accommodate multipartyism and increased use of free markets
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 11 November (1975)
Executive branch:
    president, prime minister, chairman of the Council of Ministers, Council of
    Ministers (cabinet)
Legislative branch:
    unicameral People's Assembly (Assembleia do Povo)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court (Tribunal da Relacaao)
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Jose Eduardo dos SANTOS (since 21 September 1979)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Fernando Jose Franca VAN DUNEM (since 21 July 1991)
Political parties and leaders:
    the Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola - Labor Party (MPLA), led
    by Jose Eduardo dos SANTOS, is the ruling party that has been in power in
    Angola's one-party system since 1975. The National Union for the Total
    Independence of Angola (UNITA), led by Jonas SAVIMBI, has been in insurgency
    since 1975, but as a result of the peace accords is now a legally recognized
    political party. Some 30 other political parties now exist in Angola, but
    few of them are viable and only a couple have met the requirements to become
    legally recognized.
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
    first nationwide, multiparty elections to be held between September and
    November 1992
Member of:
    ACP, AfDB, CCC, CEEAC (observer), ECA, FAO, FLS, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, IFAD,
    ILO, IMF, IMO, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, ITU, LORCS, NAM, OAU, SADCC, UN,
    UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    none; note - US Liaison Office (USLO) established after Peace Accords in May
    1991 as a precursor to establishing an embassy after election in 1992;
    address - Luanda (USLO), BPA Building, llth floor, telephone [244] (2)
    39-02-42; FAX [244] (2) 39-05-15
Flag:
    two equal horizontal bands of red (top) and black with a centered yellow
    emblem consisting of a five-pointed star within half a cogwheel crossed by a
    machete (in the style of a hammer and sickle)

:Angola Economy

Overview:
    Subsistence agriculture provides the main livelihood for 80-90% of the
    population, but accounts for less than 15% of GDP. Oil production is vital
    to the economy, contributing about 60% to GDP. In recent years, a bitter
    internal war has severely affected the nonoil economy, and food has to be
    imported. For the long run, Angola has the advantage of rich natural
    resources in addition to oil, notably gold, diamonds, and arable land. To
    realize its economic potential Angola not only must secure domestic peace
    but also must reform government policies that have led to distortions and
    imbalances throughout the economy.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $8.3 billion, per capita $950; real growth rate
    1.7% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    6.1% (1990 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    NA%
Budget:
    revenues $2.6 billion; expenditures $4.4 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $963 million (1990 est.)
Exports:
    $3.9 billion (f.o.b., 1990 est.)
  commodities:
    oil, liquefied petroleum gas, diamonds, coffee, sisal, fish and fish
    products, timber, cotton
  partners:
    US, USSR, Cuba, Portugal, Brazil, France
Imports:
    $1.5 billion (f.o.b., 1990 est.)
  commodities:
    capital equipment (machinery and electrical equipment), food, vehicles and
    spare parts, textiles and clothing, medicines; substantial military
    deliveries
  partners:
    US, USSR, Cuba, Portugal, Brazil
External debt:
    $7.0 billion (1990)
Industrial production:
    growth rate NA%; accounts for about 60% of GDP, including petroleum output
Electricity:
    510,000 kW capacity; 770 million kWh produced, 90 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    petroleum, diamonds, mining, fish processing, food processing, brewing,
    tobacco, sugar, textiles, cement, basic metal products
Agriculture:
    cash crops - coffee, sisal, corn, cotton, sugar, manioc, tobacco; food crops
    - cassava, corn, vegetables, plantains, bananas; livestock production
    accounts for 20%, fishing 4%, forestry 2% of total agricultural output;
    disruptions caused by civil war and marketing deficiencies require food
    imports
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $265 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $1,105 million;
    Communist countries (1970-89), $1.3 billion; net official disbursements
    (1985-89), $750 million
Currency:
    kwanza (plural - kwanza); 1 kwanza (Kz) = 100 lwei
Exchange rates:
    kwanza (Kz) per US$1 - 180.0

:Angola Economy

Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Angola Communications

Railroads:
    3,189 km total; 2,879 km 1.067-meter gauge, 310 km 0.600-meter gauge;
    limited trackage in use because of landmines still in place from the civil
    war; majority of the Benguela Railroad also closed because of civil war
Highways:
    73,828 km total; 8,577 km bituminous-surface treatment, 29,350 km crushed
    stone, gravel, or improved earth, remainder unimproved earth
Inland waterways:
    1,295 km navigable
Pipelines:
    crude oil 179 km
Ports:
    Luanda, Lobito, Namibe, Cabinda
Merchant marine:
    12 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 66,348 GRT/102,825 DWT; includes 11
    cargo, 1 petroleum tanker
Civil air:
    28 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    309 total, 177 usable; 30 with permanent-surface runways; 2 with runways
    over 3,659 m; 15 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 54 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    limited system of wire, radio relay, and troposcatter routes; high frequency
    radio used extensively for military links; 40,300 telephones; broadcast
    stations - 17 AM, 13 FM, 6 TV; 2 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT earth stations

:Angola Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Navy, Air Force/Air Defense, People's Defense Organization and
    Territorial Troops, Frontier Guard
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 2,129,877; 1,072,323 fit for military service; 89,585 reach
    military age (18) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $NA, NA% of GDP

:Anguilla Geography

Total area:
    91 km2
Land area:
    91 km2
Comparative area:
    about half the size of Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    61 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive fishing zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    3 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    tropical; moderated by northeast trade winds
Terrain:
    flat and low-lying island of coral and limestone
Natural resources:
    negligible; salt, fish, lobster
Land use:
    arable land NA%; permanent crops NA%; meadows and pastures NA%; forest and
    woodland NA%; other NA%; mostly rock with sparse scrub oak, few trees, some
    commercial salt ponds
Environment:
    frequent hurricanes, other tropical storms (July to October)
Note:
    located 270 km east of Puerto Rico

:Anguilla People

Population:
    6,963 (July 1992), growth rate 0.6% (1992)
Birth rate:
    24 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    8 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    --10 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    18 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    71 years male, 77 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    3.1 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Anguillan(s); adjective - Anguillan
Ethnic divisions:
    mainly of black African descent
Religions:
    Anglican 40%, Methodist 33%, Seventh-Day Adventist 7%, Baptist 5%, Roman
    Catholic 3%, other 12%
Languages:
    English (official)
Literacy:
    95% (male 95%, female 95%) age 12 and over can read and write (1984)
Labor force:
    2,780 (1984)
Organized labor:
    NA

:Anguilla Government

Long-form name:
    none
Type:
    dependent territory of the UK
Capital:
    The Valley
Administrative divisions:
    none (dependent territory of the UK)
Independence:
    none (dependent territory of the UK)
Constitution:
    1 April 1982
Legal system:
    based on English common law
National holiday:
    Anguilla Day, 30 May
Executive branch:
    British monarch, governor, chief minister, Executive Council (cabinet)
Legislative branch:
    unicameral House of Assembly
Judicial branch:
    High Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952), represented by Governor Brian G.
    J. CANTY (since NA 1989)
  Head of Government:
    Chief Minister Emile GUMBS (since March 1984, served previously from
    February 1977 to May 1980)
Political parties and leaders:
    Anguilla National Alliance (ANA), Emile GUMBS; Anguilla United Party (AUP),
    Hubert HUGHES; Anguilla Democratic Party (ADP), Victor BANKS
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  House of Assembly:
    last held 27 February 1989 (next to be held February 1994); results -
    percent of vote by party NA; seats - (11 total, 7 elected) ANA 3, AUP 2, ADP
    1, independent 1
Member of:
    CARICOM (observer), CDB
Diplomatic representation:
    none (dependent territory of the UK)
Flag:
    two horizontal bands of white (top, almost triple width) and light blue with
    three orange dolphins in an interlocking circular design centered in the
    white band; a new flag may have been in use since 30 May 1990

:Anguilla Economy

Overview:
    Anguilla has few natural resources, and the economy depends heavily on
    lobster fishing, offshore banking, tourism, and remittances from emigrants.
    In recent years the economy has benefited from a boom in tourism.
    Development plans center around the improvement of the infrastructure,
    particularly transport and tourist facilities, and also light industry.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $23 million, per capita $3,300; real growth rate
    8.2% (1988 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    4.5% (1988 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    5.0% (1988 est.)
Budget:
    revenues $13.8 million; expenditures $15.2 million, including capital
    expenditures of $2.4 million (1992 est.)
Exports:
    $NA
  commodities:
    lobster and salt
  partners:
    NA
Imports:
    $NA
  commodities:
    NA
  partners:
    NA
External debt:
    $NA
Industrial production:
    growth rate NA%
Electricity:
    2,000 kW capacity; 6 million kWh produced, 867 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    tourism, boat building, salt, fishing (including lobster)
Agriculture:
    pigeon peas, corn, sweet potatoes, sheep, goats, pigs, cattle, poultry
Economic aid:
    Western (non-US) countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $38
    million
Currency:
    East Caribbean dollar (plural - dollars); 1 EC dollar (EC$) = 100 cents
Exchange rates:
    East Caribbean dollars (EC$) per US$1 - 2.70 (fixed rate since 1976)
Fiscal year:
    NA

:Anguilla Communications

Highways:
    60 km surfaced
Ports:
    Road Bay, Blowing Point
Civil air:
    no major transport aircraft
Airports:
    3 total, 3 usable; 1 with permanent-surface runways of 1,100 m (Wallblake
    Airport)
Telecommunications:
    modern internal telephone system; 890 telephones; broadcast stations - 3 AM,
    1 FM, no TV; radio relay link to island of Saint Martin

:Anguilla Defense Forces

Note:
    defense is the responsibility of the UK

:Antarctica Geography

Total area:
    14,000,000 km2 (est.)
Land area:
    about 14,000,000 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly less than 1.5 times the size of the US; second-smallest continent
    (after Australia)
Land boundaries:
    none, but see entry on Disputes
Coastline:
    17,968 km
Maritime claims:
    none, but see entry on Disputes
Disputes:
    Antarctic Treaty defers claims (see Antarctic Treaty Summary below);
    sections (some overlapping) claimed by Argentina, Australia, Chile, France
    (Adelie Land), New Zealand (Ross Dependency), Norway (Queen Maud Land), and
    UK; the US and Russia do not recognize the territorial claims of other
    nations and have made no claims themselves (but reserve the right to do so);
    no formal claims have been made in the sector between 90. west and 150.
    west, where, because of floating ice, Antarctica is unapproachable from the
    sea
Climate:
    severe low temperatures vary with latitude, elevation, and distance from the
    ocean; East Antarctica is colder than West Antarctica because of its higher
    elevation; Antarctic Peninsula has the most moderate climate; higher
    temperatures occur in January along the coast and average slightly below
    freezing
Terrain:
    about 98% thick continental ice sheet and 2% barren rock, with average
    elevations between 2,000 and 4,000 meters; mountain ranges up to 4,897
    meters high; ice-free coastal areas include parts of southern Victoria Land,
    Wilkes Land, the Antarctic Peninsula area, and Ross Island on McMurdo Sound;
    glaciers form ice shelves along about half of the coastline, and floating
    ice shelves constitute 11% of the area of the continent
Natural resources:
    none presently exploited; iron, chromium, copper, gold, nickel, platinum,
    and other minerals, and coal and hydrocarbons have been found in small,
    uncommercial quantities
Land use:
    no arable land and no plant growth; ice 98%, barren rock 2%
Environment:
    mostly uninhabitable; katabatic (gravity-driven) winds blow coastward from
    the high interior; frequent blizzards form near the foot of the plateau; a
    circumpolar ocean current flows clockwise along the coast as do cyclonic
    storms that form over the ocean; during summer more solar radiation reaches
    the surface at the South Pole than is received at the Equator in an
    equivalent period; in October 1991 it was reported that the ozone shield,
    which protects the Earth's surface from harmful ultraviolet radiation, had
    dwindled to its lowest level ever over Antarctica; active volcanism on
    Deception Island and isolated areas of West Antarctica; other seismic
    activity rare and weak
Note:
    the coldest, windiest, highest, and driest continent

:Antarctica People

Population:
    no indigenous inhabitants; staffing of research stations varies seasonally
Population:
  Summer (January) population:
    4,115; Argentina 207, Australia 268, Belgium 13, Brazil 80, Chile 256, China
    NA, Ecuador NA, Finland 11, France 78, Germany 32, Greenpeace 12, India 60,
    Italy 210, Japan 59, South Korea 14, Netherlands 10, New Zealand 264, Norway
    23, Peru 39, Poland NA, South Africa 79, Spain 43, Sweden 10, UK 116,
    Uruguay NA, US 1,666, Russia 565 (1989-90)
  Summer only stations:
    over 40; Argentina 7, Australia 3, Chile 5, Germany 3, India 1, Italy 1,
    Japan 4, New Zealand 2, Norway 1, Peru 1, South Africa 1, Spain 1, Sweden 2,
    UK 1, US numerous, Russia 5 (1989-90); note - the disintegration of the
    former Soviet Union has placed the status and future of its Antarctic
    facilities in doubt. Stations may be subject to closings at any time because
    of ongoing economic difficulties.
  Winter (July) population:
    1,066 total; Argentina 150, Australia 71, Brazil 12, Chile 73, China NA,
    France 33, Germany 19, Greenpeace 5, India 1, Japan 38, South Korea 14, NZ
    11, Poland NA, South Africa 12, UK 69, Uruguay NA, US 225, Russia 313
    (1989-90)
  Year-round stations:
    43 total; Argentina 6, Australia 3, Brazil 1, Chile 3, China 2, Finland 1,
    France 1, Germany 1, India 1, Japan 2, South Korea 1, NZ 1, Poland 1, South
    Africa 3, UK 5, Uruguay 1, US 3, Russia 6 (1990-91)

:Antarctica Government

Long-form name:
    none
Type:
  Antarctic Treaty Summary: Article 1:
    area to be used for peaceful purposes only; military activity, such as
    weapons testing, is prohibited, but military personnel and equipment may be
    used for scientific research or any other peaceful purposes
  Article 2:
    freedom of scientific investigation and cooperation shall continue
  Article 3:
    free exchange of information and personnel in cooperation with the UN and
    other international agencies
  Article 4:
    does not recognize, dispute, or establish territorial claims and no new
    claims shall be asserted while the treaty is in force
  Article 5:
    prohibits nuclear explosions or disposal of radioactive wastes
  Article 6:
    includes under the treaty all land and ice shelves south of 60. 00' south
  Article 7:
    treaty-state observers have free access, including aerial observation, to
    any area and may inspect all stations, installations, and equipment; advance
    notice of all activities and of the introduction of military personnel must
    be given
  Article 8:
    allows for jurisdiction over observers and scientists by their own states
  Article 9:
    frequent consultative meetings take place among member nations
  Article 10:
    treaty states will discourage activities by any country in Antarctica that
    are contrary to the treaty
  Article 11:
    disputes to be settled peacefully by the parties concerned or, ultimately,
    by the ICJ
  Article 12, 13, 14:
    deal with upholding, interpreting, and amending the treaty among involved
    nations
  Other agreements:
    more than 170 recommendations adopted at treaty consultative meetings and
    ratified by governments include - Agreed Measures for the Conservation of
    Antarctic Fauna and Flora (1964); Convention for the Conservation of
    Antarctic Seals (1972); Convention on the Conservation of Antarctic Marine
    Living Resources (1980); a mineral resources agreement was signed in 1988
    but was subsequently rejected; in 1991 the Protocol on Environmental
    Protection to the Antarctic Treaty was signed and awaits ratification; this
    agreement provides for the protection of the Antarctic environment through
    five specific annexes on marine pollution, fauna, and flora, environmental
    impact assessments, waste management, and protected areas; it also prohibits
    all activities relating to mineral resources except scientific research

:Antarctica Economy

Overview:
    No economic activity at present except for fishing off the coast and
    small-scale tourism, both based abroad.

:Antarctica Communications

Ports:
    none; offshore anchorage only at most coastal stations
Airports:
    41 airport facilities at different locations operated by 14 national
    governments party to the Treaty; one additional air facility operated by
    commercial (nongovernmental) tourist organization; helicopter pads at 28 of
    these locations; runways at 9 locations are gravel, sea ice, glacier ice, or
    compacted snow surface suitable for wheeled fixed-wing aircraft; no paved
    runways; 16 locations have snow-surface skiways limited to use by
    ski-equipped planes - 9 runways/skiways 1,000 to 3,000 m, 4 runways/skiways
    less than 1,000 m, 5 runways/skiways greater than 3,000 m, and 7 of
    unspecified or variable length; airports generally subject to severe
    restrictions and limitations resulting from extreme seasonal and geographic
    conditions

:Antarctica Defense Forces

Note:
    none; Article 7 of the Antarctic Treaty states that advance notice of all
    military activities and the introduction of military personnel must be given

:Antigua and Barbuda Geography

Total area:
    440 km2
Land area:
    440 km2; includes Redonda
Comparative area:
    slightly less than 2.5 times the size of Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    153 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    24 nm
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    tropical marine; little seasonal temperature variation
Terrain:
    mostly low-lying limestone and coral islands with some higher volcanic areas
Natural resources:
    negligible; pleasant climate fosters tourism
Land use:
    arable land 18%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 7%; forest and
    woodland 16%; other 59%
Environment:
    subject to hurricanes and tropical storms (July to October); insufficient
    freshwater resources; deeply indented coastline provides many natural
    harbors
Note:
    420 km east-southeast of Puerto Rico

:Antigua and Barbuda People

Population:
    64,110 (July 1992), growth rate 0.4% (1992)
Birth rate:
    18 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    6 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    --8 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    20 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    71 years male, 75 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    1.7 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Antiguan(s), Barbudan(s); adjective - Antiguan, Barbudan
Ethnic divisions:
    almost entirely of black African origin; some of British, Portuguese,
    Lebanese, and Syrian origin
Religions:
    Anglican (predominant), other Protestant sects, some Roman Catholic
Languages:
    English (official), local dialects
Literacy:
    89% (male 90%, female 88%) age 15 and over having completed 5 or more years
    of schooling (1960)
Labor force:
    30,000; commerce and services 82%, agriculture 11%, industry 7% (1983)
Organized labor:
    Antigua and Barbuda Public Service Association (ABPSA), membership 500;
    Antigua Trades and Labor Union (ATLU), 10,000 members; Antigua Workers Union
    (AWU), 10,000 members (1986 est.)

:Antigua and Barbuda Government

Long-form name:
    none
Type:
    parliamentary democracy
Capital:
    Saint John's
Administrative divisions:
    6 parishes and 2 dependencies*; Barbuda*, Redonda*, Saint George, Saint
    John, Saint Mary, Saint Paul, Saint Peter, Saint Philip
Independence:
    1 November 1981 (from UK)
Constitution:
    1 November 1981
Legal system:
    based on English common law
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 1 November (1981)
Executive branch:
    British monarch, governor general, prime minister, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    bicameral Parliament consists of an upper house or Senate and a lower house
    or House of Representatives
Judicial branch:
    Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952), represented by Governor General
    Sir Wilfred Ebenezer JACOBS (since 1 November 1981, previously Governor
    since 1976)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Vere Cornwall BIRD, Sr. (since NA 1976); Deputy Prime
    Minister (vacant)
Political parties and leaders:
    Antigua Labor Party (ALP), Vere C. BIRD, Sr., Lester BIRD; United
    Progressive Party (UPP), Baldwin SPENCER
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  House of Representatives:
    last held 9 March 1989 (next to be held NA 1994); results - percent of vote
    by party NA; seats - (17 total) ALP 15, UPP 1, independent 1
Other political or pressure groups:
    United Progressive Party (UPP), a coalition of three opposition political
    parties - the United National Democratic Party (UNDP), the Antigua Caribbean
    Liberation Movement (ACLM), and the Progressive Labor Movement (PLM), the
    UPP is led by Baldwin SPENCER; Antigua Trades and Labor Union (ATLU), headed
    by Noel THOMAS
Member of:
    ACP, C, CARICOM, CDB, ECLAC, FAO, G-77, GATT, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, IFAD, IFC,
    ILO, IMF, IMO, INTERPOL, IOC, ITU, NAM (observer), OAS, OECS, OPANAL, UN,
    UNCTAD, UNESCO, WCL, WHO, WMO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Patrick Albert LEWIS; Chancery at Suite 2H, 3400 International
    Drive NW, Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 362-5211 or 5166, 5122,
    5225; there is an Antiguan Consulate in Miami

:Antigua and Barbuda Government

  US:
    the US Ambassador to Barbados is accredited to Antigua and Barbuda, and, in
    his absence, the Embassy is headed by Charge d'Affaires Bryant SALTER;
    Embassy at Queen Elizabeth Highway, Saint John's (mailing address is FPO AA
    34054); telephone (809) 462-3505 or 3506; FAX (809) 462-3516
Flag:
    red with an inverted isosceles triangle based on the top edge of the flag;
    the triangle contains three horizontal bands of black (top), light blue, and
    white with a yellow rising sun in the black band

:Antigua and Barbuda Economy

Overview:
    The economy is primarily service oriented, with tourism the most important
    determinant of economic performance. During the period 1987-90, real GDP
    expanded at an annual average rate of about 6%. Tourism makes a direct
    contribution to GDP of about 13% and also affects growth in other sectors -
    particularly in construction, communications, and public utilities. Although
    Antigua and Barbuda is one of the few areas in the Caribbean experiencing a
    labor shortage in some sectors of the economy, it was hurt in 1991 by a
    downturn in tourism caused by the Persian Gulf war and the US recession.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $418 million, per capita $6,500 (1989); real
    growth rate 4.2% (1990 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    7% (1990 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    5.0% (1988 est.)
Budget:
    revenues $92.8 million; expenditures $101 million, including capital
    expenditures of $NA (1990 est.)
Exports:
    $33.2 million (f.o.b., 1990)
  commodities:
    petroleum products 48%, manufactures 23%, food and live animals 4%,
    machinery and transport equipment 17%
  partners:
    OECS 26%, Barbados 15%, Guyana 4%, Trinidad and Tobago 2%, US 0.3%
Imports:
    $325.9 million (c.i.f., 1990)
  commodities:
    food and live animals, machinery and transport equipment, manufactures,
    chemicals, oil
  partners:
    US 27%, UK 16%, Canada 4%, OECS 3%, other 50%
External debt:
    $250 million (1990 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 3% (1989 est.); accounts for 3% of GDP
Electricity:
    52,100 kW capacity; 95 million kWh produced, 1,482 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    tourism, construction, light manufacturing (clothing, alcohol, household
    appliances)
Agriculture:
    accounts for 4% of GDP; expanding output of cotton, fruits, vegetables, and
    livestock; other crops - bananas, coconuts, cucumbers, mangoes, sugarcane;
    not self-sufficient in food
Economic aid:
    US commitments, $10 million (1985-88); Western (non-US) countries, ODA and
    OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $50 million
Currency:
    East Caribbean dollar (plural - dollars); 1 EC dollar (EC$) = 100 cents
Exchange rates:
    East Caribbean dollars (EC$) per US$1 - 2.70 (fixed rate since 1976)
Fiscal year:
    1 April - 31 March

:Antigua and Barbuda Communications

Railroads:
    64 km 0.760-meter narrow gauge and 13 km 0.610-meter gauge used almost
    exclusively for handling sugarcane
Highways:
    240 km
Ports:
    Saint John's
Merchant marine:
    105 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 364,891 GRT/552,475 DWT; includes 71
    cargo, 3 refrigerated cargo, 12 container, 3 roll-on/roll-off cargo, 1
    multifunction large load carrier, 1 oil tanker, 12 chemical tanker, 2 bulk;
    note - a flag of convenience registry
Civil air:
    11 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    3 total, 3 usable; 2 with permanent-surface runways; 1 with runways
    2,440-3,659 m; 2 with runways less than 1,220 m
Telecommunications:
    good automatic telephone system; 6,700 telephones; tropospheric scatter
    links with Saba and Guadeloupe; broadcast stations - 4 AM, 2 FM, 2 TV, 2
    shortwave; 1 coaxial submarine cable; 1 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT earth
    station

:Antigua and Barbuda Defense Forces

Branches:
    Royal Antigua and Barbuda Defense Force, Royal Antigua and Barbuda Police
    Force (including the Coast Guard)
Manpower availability:
    NA
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $1.4 million, 1% of GDP (FY91)

:Arctic Ocean Geography

Total area:
    14,056,000 km2
Land area:
    14,056,000 km2; includes Baffin Bay, Barents Sea, Beaufort Sea, Chukchi Sea,
    East Siberian Sea, Greenland Sea, Hudson Bay, Hudson Strait, Kara Sea,
    Laptev Sea, and other tributary water bodies
Comparative area:
    slightly more than 1.5 times the size of the US; smallest of the world's
    four oceans (after Pacific Ocean, Atlantic Ocean, and Indian Ocean)
Coastline:
    45,389 km
Disputes:
    some maritime disputes (see littoral states)
Climate:
    persistent cold and relatively narrow annual temperature ranges; winters
    characterized by continuous darkness, cold and stable weather conditions,
    and clear skies; summers characterized by continuous daylight, damp and
    foggy weather, and weak cyclones with rain or snow
Terrain:
    central surface covered by a perennial drifting polar icepack that averages
    about 3 meters in thickness, although pressure ridges may be three times
    that size; clockwise drift pattern in the Beaufort Gyral Stream, but nearly
    straight line movement from the New Siberian Islands (Russia) to Denmark
    Strait (between Greenland and Iceland); the ice pack is surrounded by open
    seas during the summer, but more than doubles in size during the winter and
    extends to the encircling land masses; the ocean floor is about 50%
    continental shelf (highest percentage of any ocean) with the remainder a
    central basin interrupted by three submarine ridges (Alpha Cordillera,
    Nansen Cordillera, and Lomonsov Ridge); maximum depth is 4,665 meters in the
    Fram Basin
Natural resources:
    sand and gravel aggregates, placer deposits, polymetallic nodules, oil and
    gas fields, fish, marine mammals (seals, whales)
Environment:
    endangered marine species include walruses and whales; ice islands
    occasionally break away from northern Ellesmere Island; icebergs calved from
    glaciers in western Greenland and extreme northeastern Canada; maximum snow
    cover in March or April about 20 to 50 centimeters over the frozen ocean and
    lasts about 10 months; permafrost in islands; virtually icelocked from
    October to June; fragile ecosystem slow to change and slow to recover from
    disruptions or damage
Note:
    major chokepoint is the southern Chukchi Sea (northern access to the Pacific
    Ocean via the Bering Strait); ships subject to superstructure icing from
    October to May; strategic location between North America and Russia;
    shortest marine link between the extremes of eastern and western Russia,
    floating research stations operated by the US and Russia

:Arctic Ocean Economy

Overview:
    Economic activity is limited to the exploitation of natural resources,
    including crude oil, natural gas, fish, and seals.

:Arctic Ocean Communications

Ports:
    Churchill (Canada), Murmansk (Russia), Prudhoe Bay (US)
Telecommunications:
    no submarine cables
Note:
    sparse network of air, ocean, river, and land routes; the Northwest Passage
    (North America) and Northern Sea Route (Asia) are important seasonal
    waterways

:Argentina Geography

Total area:
    2,766,890 km2
Land area:
    2,736,690 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly more than four times the size of Texas
Land boundaries:
    9,665 km total; Bolivia 832 km, Brazil 1,224 km, Chile 5,150 km, Paraguay
    1,880 km, Uruguay 579 km
Coastline:
    4,989 km
Maritime claims:
  Continental shelf:
    200 m (depth) or to depth of exploitation
  Exclusive economic zone:
    nm limits unknown
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm (overflight and navigation permitted beyond 12 nm)
Disputes:
    short section of the boundary with Uruguay is in dispute; short section of
    the boundary with Chile is indefinite; claims British-administered Falkland
    Islands (Islas Malvinas); claims British- administered South Georgia and the
    South Sandwich Islands; territorial claim in Antarctica
Climate:
    mostly temperate; arid in southeast; subantarctic in southwest
Terrain:
    rich plains of the Pampas in northern half, flat to rolling plateau of
    Patagonia in south, rugged Andes along western border
Natural resources:
    fertile plains of the pampas, lead, zinc, tin, copper, iron ore, manganese,
    crude oil, uranium
Land use:
    arable land 9%; permanent crops 4%; meadows and pastures 52%; forest and
    woodland 22%; other 13%; includes irrigated 1%
Environment:
    Tucuman and Mendoza areas in Andes subject to earthquakes; pamperos are
    violent windstorms that can strike Pampas and northeast; irrigated soil
    degradation; desertification; air and water pollution in Buenos Aires
Note:
    second-largest country in South America (after Brazil); strategic location
    relative to sea lanes between South Atlantic and South Pacific Oceans
    (Strait of Magellan, Beagle Channel, Drake Passage)

:Argentina People

Population:
    32,901,234 (July 1992), growth rate 1.1% (1992)
Birth rate:
    20 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    9 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    NEGL migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    34 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    67 years male, 74 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    2.8 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Argentine(s); adjective - Argentine
Ethnic divisions:
    white 85%; mestizo, Indian, or other nonwhite groups 15%
Religions:
    nominally Roman Catholic 90% (less than 20% practicing), Protestant 2%,
    Jewish 2%, other 6%
Languages:
    Spanish (official), English, Italian, German, French
Literacy:
    95% (male 96%, female 95%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    10,900,000; agriculture 12%, industry 31%, services 57% (1985 est.)
Organized labor:
    3,000,000; 28% of labor force

:Argentina Government

Long-form name:
    Argentine Republic
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Buenos Aires
Administrative divisions:
    23 provinces (provincias, singular - provincia), and 1 district**
    (distrito); Buenos Aires, Catamarca, Chaco, Chubut, Cordoba, Corrientes,
    Distrito Federal**, Entre Rios, Formosa, Jujuy, La Pampa, La Rioja, Mendoza,
    Misiones, Neuquen, Rio Negro, Salta, San Juan, San Luis, Santa Cruz, Santa
    Fe, Santiago del Estero, Tierra del Fuego, Tucuman; note - the national
    territory is in the process of becoming a province; the US does not
    recognize claims to Antarctica
Independence:
    9 July 1816 (from Spain)
Constitution:
    1 May 1853
Legal system:
    mixture of US and West European legal systems; has not accepted compulsory
    ICJ jurisdiction
National holiday:
    Revolution Day, 25 May (1810)
Executive branch:
    president, vice president, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    bicameral National Congress (Congreso Nacional) consists of an upper chamber
    or Senate (Senado) and a lower chamber or Chamber of Deputies (Camara de
    Diputados)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court (Corte Suprema)
Leaders:
  Chief of State and Head of Government:
    President Carlos Saul MENEM (since 8 July 1989); Vice President (position
    vacant)
Political parties and leaders:
    Justicialist Party (JP), Carlos Saul MENEM, Peronist umbrella political
    organization; Radical Civic Union (UCR), Mario LOSADA, moderately left of
    center; Union of the Democratic Center (UCD), Jorge AGUADO, conservative
    party; Intransigent Party (PI), Dr. Oscar ALENDE, leftist party; several
    provincial parties
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  Chamber of Deputies:
    last held in three phases during late 1991 for half of 254 seats, total
    current breakdown of seats - JP 122, UCR 85, UCD 10, other 37
  President:
    last held 14 May 1989 (next to be held NA May 1995); results - Carlos Saul
    MENEM was elected
  Senate:
    last held May 1989, but provincial elections in late 1991 set the stage for
    indirect elections by provincial senators for one-third of 46 seats in the
    national senate in May 1992; total current breakdown of seats - JP 27, UCR
    14, others 5
Communists:
    some 70,000 members in various party organizations, including a small
    nucleus of activists

:Argentina Government

Other political or pressure groups:
    Peronist-dominated labor movement, General Confederation of Labor
    (Peronist-leaning umbrella labor organization), Argentine Industrial Union
    (manufacturers' association), Argentine Rural Society (large landowners'
    association), business organizations, students, the Roman Catholic Church,
    the Armed Forces
Member of:
    AfDB, AG (observer), CCC, ECLAC, FAO, G-6, G-11, G-15, G-19, G-24, G-77,
    GATT, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, IDA, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO,
    INMARSAT, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, LAES, LAIA, LORCS,
    MERCOSUR, OAS, PCA, RG, UN, UNAVEM, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIIMOG,
    UNTSO, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Carlos ORTIZ DE ROZAS; Chancery at 1600 New Hampshire Avenue NW,
    Washington, DC 20009; telephone (202) 939-6400 through 6403; there are
    Argentine Consulates General in Houston, Miami, New Orleans, New York, San
    Francisco, and San Juan (Puerto Rico), and Consulates in Baltimore, Chicago,
    and Los Angeles
  US:
    Ambassador Terence A. TODMAN; Embassy at 4300 Colombia, 1425 Buenos Aires
    (mailing address is APO AA 34034); telephone [54] (1) 774- 7611 or 8811,
    9911; Telex 18156 AMEMBAR
Flag:
    three equal horizontal bands of light blue (top), white, and light blue;
    centered in the white band is a radiant yellow sun with a human face known
    as the Sun of May

:Argentina Economy

Overview:
    Argentina is rich in natural resources and has a highly literate population,
    an export-oriented agricultural sector, and a diversified industrial base.
    Nevertheless, following decades of mismanagement and statist policies, the
    economy has encountered major problems in recent years, leading to
    escalating inflation and a recession during 1988-90. Since 1978, Argentina's
    external debt has nearly doubled to $58 billion, creating severe debt
    servicing difficulties and hurting the country's creditworthiness with
    international lenders. Elected in 1989, President Menem has implemented a
    comprehensive economic restructuring program that shows signs of reversing
    Argentina's economic decline and putting it on a path of stable, sustainable
    growth.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $101.2 billion, per capita $3,100; real growth
    rate 5.5% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    83.8% (1991)
Unemployment rate:
    6.4% (October 1991)
Budget:
    revenues $13.6 billion; expenditures $16.6 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $2.5 billion (1991)
Exports:
    $12 billion (f.o.b., 1991)
  commodities:
    meat, wheat, corn, oilseed, hides, wool
  partners:
    US 12%, USSR, Italy, Brazil, Japan, Netherlands
Imports:
    $8 billion (c.i.f., 1991)
  commodities:
    machinery and equipment, chemicals, metals, fuels and lubricants,
    agricultural products
  partners:
    US 22%, Brazil, FRG, Bolivia, Japan, Italy, Netherlands
External debt:
    $61 billion (January 1992)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 20% (1991 est.); accounts for 30% of GDP
Electricity:
    17,059,000 kW capacity; 47,357 million kWh produced, 1,450 kWh per capita
    (1991)
Industries:
    food processing, motor vehicles, consumer durables, textiles, chemicals and
    petrochemicals, printing, metallurgy, steel
Agriculture:
    accounts for 15% of GNP (including fishing); produces abundant food for both
    domestic consumption and exports; among world's top five exporters of grain
    and beef; principal crops - wheat, corn, sorghum, soybeans, sugar beets
Illicit drugs:
    increasing use as a transshipment country for cocaine headed for the US and
    Europe
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $1.0 billion; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $4.4 billion;
    Communist countries (1970-89), $718 million
Currency:
    peso (plural - pesos); 1 pesos = 100 centavos

:Argentina Economy

Exchange rates:
    pesos per US$1 - 0.99076 (Feburary 1992), 0.95355 (1991), 0.48759 (1990),
    0.04233 (1989), 0.00088 (1988), 0.00021 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Argentina Communications

Railroads:
    34,172 km total (includes 209 km electrified); includes a mixture of
    1.435-meter standard gauge, 1.676-meter broad gauge, 1.000-meter narrow
    gauge, and 0.750-meter narrow gauge
Highways:
    208,350 km total; 47,550 km paved, 39,500 km gravel, 101,000 km improved
    earth, 20,300 km unimproved earth
Inland waterways:
    11,000 km navigable
Pipelines:
    crude oil 4,090 km; petroleum products 2,900 km; natural gas 9,918 km
Ports:
    Bahia Blanca, Buenos Aires, Necochea, Rio Gallegos, Rosario, Santa Fe
Merchant marine:
    98 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 1,235,385 GRT/1,952,307 DWT; includes
    35 cargo, 6 refrigerated cargo, 6 container, 1 railcar carrier, 33 oil
    tanker, 4 chemical tanker, 3 liquefied gas, 10 bulk; in addition, 2 naval
    tankers and 1 military transport are sometimes used commercially
Civil air:
    56 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    1,702 total, 1,473 usable; 137 with permanent-surface runways; 1 with
    runways over 3,659 m; 31 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 326 with runways
    1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    extensive modern system; 2,650,000 telephones (12,000 public telephones);
    microwave widely used; broadcast stations - 171 AM, no FM, 231 TV, 13
    shortwave; 2 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT earth stations; domestic satellite
    network has 40 earth stations

:Argentina Defense Forces

Branches:
    Argentine Army, Navy of the Argentine Republic, Argentine Air Force,
    National Gendarmerie, Argentine Naval Prefecture (Coast Guard only),
    National Aeronautical Police Force
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 8,101,856; 6,568,885 fit for military service; 276,457 reach
    military age (20) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $700 million, 1.5% of GDP (1991)

:Armenia Geography

Total area:
    29,800 km2
Land area:
    28,400 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than Maryland
Land boundaries:
    1,254 km total; Azerbaijan (east) 566 km, Azerbaijan (south) 221 km, Georgia
    164 km, Iran 35 km, Turkey 268 km
Coastline:
    none - landlocked
Maritime claims:
    none - landlocked
Disputes:
    violent and longstanding dispute with Azerbaijan over ethnically Armenian
    exclave of Nagorno-Karabakh; some irredentism by Armenians living in
    southern Georgia; traditional demands on former Armenian lands in Turkey
    have greatly subsided
Climate:
    continental, hot, and subject to drought
Terrain:
    high Armenian Plateau with mountain; little forest land; fast flowing
    rivers; good soil in Aras River valley
Natural resources:
    small deposits of gold, copper, molybdenum, zinc, alumina
Land use:
    10% arable land; NA% permanent crops; NA% meadows and pastures; NA% forest
    and woodland; NA% other; NA% irrigated
Environment:
    pollution of Razdan and Aras Rivers; air pollution in Yerevan

:Armenia People

Population:
    3,415,566 (July 1992), growth rate 0.8% (1992)
Birth rate:
    22 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    7 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    --7 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    35 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    68 years male, 74 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    2.7 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Armenian(s); adjective - Armenian
Ethnic divisions:
    Armenian 93.3%, Russian 1.5%, Kurd 1.7%, other 3.5%
Religions:
    Armenian Orthodox 94%
Languages:
    Armenian 93%, Russian 2%, other 5%
Literacy:
    NA% (male NA%, female NA%) age 15 and over can read and write (NA)
Labor force:
    1,630,000; industry and construction 42%, agriculture and forestry 18%,
    other 40%(1990)
Organized labor:
    NA

:Armenia Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Armenia
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Yerevan
Administrative divisions:
    none - all rayons are under direct republic jurisdiction
Independence:
    Armenian Republic formed 29 November 1920 and became part of the Soviet
    Union on 30 December 1922; on 23 September 1991, Armenia renamed itself the
    Republic of Armenia
Constitution:
    adopted NA April 1978, effective NA
Legal system:
    based on civil law system
National holiday:
    NA
Executive branch:
    President, Council of Ministers, prime minister
Legislative branch:
    unicameral body - Supreme Soviet
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Levon Akopovich TER-PETROSYAN (since 16 October 1991), Vice
    President Gagik ARUTYUNYAN (since 16 October 1991)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Gagik ARUTYUNYAN (since November 1991), First Deputy Prime
    Minister Grant BAGRATYAN (since NA September 1990); Supreme Soviet Chairman
    - Babken ARARKTSYAN
Political parties and leaders:
    Armenian National Movement, Husik LAZARYAN, chairman; National
    Self-Determination Association, Pakvyr HAYRIKIAN, chairman; National
    Democratic Union, Vazgen MANUKYAN, chairman; Democratic Liberal Party,
    Ramkavar AZATAKAN, chairman; Dashnatktsutyan Party, Rouben MIRZAKHANIN;
    Chairman of Parliamentary opposition - Mekhak GABRIYELYAN
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  President:
    last held 16 October 1990 (next to be held NA); results - elected by the
    Supreme Soviet, Levon Akopovich TER-PETROSYAN 86%; radical nationalists
    about 7%
  Supreme Soviet:
    last held 20 May 1990 (next to be held NA); results - percent of vote by
    party NA; seats - (259 total); number of seats by party NA
Other political or pressure groups:
    NA
Member of:
    CSCE, NACC, UN, UNCTAD
Diplomatic representation:
    Charge d'Affaires ad interim, Aleksandr ARZOUMANIAN
  US:
    Ambassador (vacant); Steven R. MANN, Charge d'Affaires; Embassy at Hotel
    Hrazdan (telephone 8-011-7-8852-53-53-32); (mailing address is APO AE
    09862); telephone 8-011-7-885-215-1122 (voice and FAX); 8-011-7-885-215-1144
    (voice)

:Armenia Government

Flag:
    NA

:Armenia Economy

Overview:
    Armenia under the old centrally planned Soviet system had built up textile,
    machine-building, and other industries and had become a key supplier to
    sister republics. In turn, Armenia had depended on supplies of raw materials
    and energy from the other republics. Most of these supplies enter the
    republic by rail through Azerbaijan (85%) and Georgia (15%). The economy has
    been severely hurt by ethnic strife with Azerbaijan over control of the
    Nagorno-Karabakh Autonomous Oblast, a mostly Armenian-populated enclave
    within the national boundaries of Azerbaijan. In addition to outright
    warfare, the strife has included interdiction of Armenian imports on the
    Azerbaijani railroads and expensive airlifts of supplies to beleagured
    Armenians in Nagorno-Karabakh. An earthquake in December 1988 destroyed
    about one-tenth of industrial capacity and housing, the repair of which has
    not been possible because the supply of funds and real resources has been
    disrupted by the reorganization and subsequent dismantling of the central
    USSR administrative apparatus. Among facilities made unserviceable by the
    earthquake are the Yerevan nuclear power plant, which had supplied 40% of
    Armenia's needs for electric power and a plant that produced one-quarter of
    the output of elevators in the former USSR. Armenia has some deposits of
    nonferrous metal ores (bauxite, copper, zinc, and molybdenum) that are
    largely unexploited. For the mid-term, Armenia's economic prospects seem
    particularly bleak because of ethnic strife and the unusually high
    dependence on outside areas, themselves in a chaotic state of
    transformation.
GDP:
    $NA, per capita $NA; real growth rate --10% (1991)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    91%
Unemployment rate:
    NA%
Budget:
    revenues $NA; expenditures $NA, including capital expenditures of $NA
Exports:
    $176 million (f.o.b., 1990)
  commodities:
    machinery and transport equipment, ferrous and nonferrous metals, and
    chemicals (1991)
  partners:
    NA
Imports:
    $1.5 billion (c.i.f., 1990)
  commodities:
    machinery, energy, consumer goods (1991)
  partners:
    NA
External debt:
    $650 million (December 1991 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate --9.6% (1991)
Electricity:
    NA kW capacity; 10,433 million kWh produced, about 3,000 kWh per capita
    (1990)
Industries:
    diverse, including (in percent of output of former USSR) metalcutting
    machine tools (6.7%), forging-pressing machines (4.7%), electric motors
    (8.7%), tires (2.1%), knitted wear (5.6%), hosiery (2.3%), shoes (2.2%),
    silk fabric (5.3%), washing machines (2.0%); also chemicals, trucks,
    watches, instruments, and microelectronics

:Armenia Economy

Agriculture:
    only 10% of land area is arable; employs 18% of labor force; citrus, cotton,
    and dairy farming; vineyards near Yerevan are famous for brandy and other
    liqueurs
Illicit drugs:
    illicit producer of cannabis mostly for domestic consumption; used as a
    transshipment point for illicit drugs to Western Europe
Economic aid:
    NA
Currency:
    as of May 1992, retaining ruble as currency
Exchange rates:
    NA
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Armenia Communications

Railroads:
    840 km all 1.000-meter gauge (includes NA km electrified); does not include
    industrial lines (1990)
Highways:
    11,300 km total (1990); 10,500 km hard surfaced, 800 km earth
Inland waterways:
    NA km perennially navigable
Pipelines:
    NA
Ports:
    none - landlocked
Merchant marine:
  none:
    landlocked
Civil air:
    none
Airports:
    NA total, NA usable; NA with permanent-surface runways; NA with runways over
    3,659 m; NA with runways 2,440-3,659 m; NA with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    Armenia has about 260,000 telephones, of which about 110,000 are in Yerevan;
    average telephone density is 8 per 100 persons; international connections to
    other former republics of the USSR are by landline or microwave and to other
    countries by satellite and by leased connection through the Moscow
    international gateway switch; broadcast stations - 100% of population
    receives Armenian and Russian TV programs; satellite earth station -
    INTELSAT

:Armenia Defense Forces

Branches:
    Republic Security Forces (internal and border troops), National Guard; CIS
    Forces (Ground and Air Defense)
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, NA; NA fit for military service; NA reach military age (18)
    annually
Defense expenditures:
    $NA, NA% of GDP

:Aruba Geography

Total area:
    193 km2
Land area:
    193 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    68.5 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive fishing zone:
    12 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    tropical marine; little seasonal temperature variation
Terrain:
    flat with a few hills; scant vegetation
Natural resources:
    negligible; white sandy beaches
Land use:
    arable land 0%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 0%; forest and
    woodland 0%; other 100%
Environment:
    lies outside the Caribbean hurricane belt
Note:
    28 km north of Venezuela

:Aruba People

Population:
    64,692 (July 1992), growth rate 0.7% (1992)
Birth rate:
    16 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    6 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    --3 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    9 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    73 years male, 80 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    1.8 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Aruban(s); adjective - Aruban
Ethnic divisions:
    mixed European/Caribbean Indian 80%
Religions:
    Roman Catholic 82%, Protestant 8%, also small Hindu, Muslim, Confucian, and
    Jewish minority
Languages:
    Dutch (official), Papiamento (a Spanish, Portuguese, Dutch, English
    dialect), English (widely spoken), Spanish
Literacy:
    NA% (male NA%, female NA%)
Labor force:
    NA, but most employment is in the tourist industry (1986)
Organized labor:
    Aruban Workers' Federation (FTA)

:Aruba Government

Long-form name:
    none
Type:
    part of the Dutch realm - full autonomy in internal affairs obtained in 1986
    upon separation from the Netherlands Antilles
Capital:
    Oranjestad
Administrative divisions:
    none (self-governing part of the Netherlands)
Independence:
    none (part of the Dutch realm); note - in 1990, Aruba requested and received
    from the Netherlands cancellation of the agreement to automatically give
    independence to the island in 1996
Constitution:
    1 January 1986
Legal system:
    based on Dutch civil law system, with some English common law influence
National holiday:
    Flag Day, 18 March
Executive branch:
    Dutch monarch, governor, prime minister, Council of Ministers (cabinet)
Legislative branch:
    unicameral legislature (Staten)
Judicial branch:
    Joint High Court of Justice
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Queen BEATRIX Wilhelmina Armgard (since 30 April 1980), represented by
    Governor General Felipe B. TROMP (since 1 January 1986)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Nelson ODUBER (since NA February 1989)
Political parties and leaders:
    Electoral Movement Party (MEP), Nelson ODUBER; Aruban People's Party (AVP),
    Henny EMAN; National Democratic Action (ADN), Pedro Charro KELLY; New
    Patriotic Party (PPN), Eddy WERLEMEN; Aruban Patriotic Party (PPA), Benny
    NISBET; Aruban Democratic Party (PDA), Leo BERLINSKI; Democratic Action '86
    (AD '86), Arturo ODUBER; Organization for Aruban Liberty (OHA), Glenbert
    CROES; governing coalition includes the MEP, PPA, and ADN
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  Legislature:
    last held 6 January 1989 (next to be held by NA January 1993); results -
    percent of vote by party NA; seats - (21 total) MEP 10, AVP 8, ADN 1, PPN 1,
    PPA 1
Member of:
    ECLAC (associate), INTERPOL, IOC, UNESCO (associate), WCL, WTO (associate)
Diplomatic representation:
    none (self-governing part of the Netherlands)
Flag:
    blue with two narrow horizontal yellow stripes across the lower portion and
    a red, four-pointed star outlined in white in the upper hoist-side corner

:Aruba Economy

Overview:
    Tourism is the mainstay of the economy, although offshore banking and oil
    refining and storage are also important. Hotel capacity expanded rapidly
    between 1985 and 1989 and nearly doubled in 1990 alone. Unemployment has
    steadily declined from about 20% in 1986 to about 3% in 1991. The reopening
    of the local oil refinery, once a major source of employment and foreign
    exchange earnings, promises to give the economy an additional boost.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $854 million, per capita $13,600; real growth
    rate l0% (1990 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    8% (1990 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    3% (1991 est.)
Budget:
    revenues $145 million; expenditures $185 million, including capital
    expenditures of $42 million (1988)
Exports:
    $134.4 million (f.o.b., 1990)
  commodities:
    mostly petroleum products
  partners:
    US 64%, EC
Imports:
    $488 million (f.o.b., 1990)
  commodities:
    food, consumer goods, manufactures
  partners:
    US 8%, EC
External debt:
    $81 million (1987)
Industrial production:
    growth rate NA
Electricity:
    310,000 kW capacity; 945 million kWh produced, 15,000 kWh per capita (1990)
Industries:
    tourism, transshipment facilities, oil refining
Agriculture:
    poor quality soils and low rainfall limit agricultural activity to the
    cultivation of aloes, some livestock, and fishing
Economic aid:
    Western (non-US) countries ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1980-89), $220
    million
Currency:
    Aruban florin (plural - florins); 1 Aruban florin (Af.) = 100 cents
Exchange rates:
    Aruban florins (Af.) per US$1 - 1.7900 (fixed rate since 1986)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Aruba Communications

Highways:
    Aruba has a system of all-weather highways
Ports:
    Oranjestad, Sint Nicolaas
Civil air:
    Air Aruba has a fleet of 3 intermediate-range Boeing aircraft
Airports:
    government-owned airport east of Oranjestad accepts transatlantic flights
Telecommunications:
    generally adequate; extensive interisland radio relay links; 72,168
    telephones; broadcast stations - 4 AM, 4 FM, 1 TV; 1 sea cable to Sint
    Maarten

:Aruba Defense Forces

Note:
    defense is the responsibility of the Netherlands

:Ashmore and Cartier Islands Geography

Total area:
    5 km2
Land area:
    5 km2; includes Ashmore Reef (West, Middle, and East Islets) and Cartier
    Island
Comparative area:
    about 8.5 times the size of The Mall in Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    74.1 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    12 nm
  Continental shelf:
    200 m (depth) or to depth of exploration
  Exclusive fishing zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    3 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    tropical
Terrain:
    low with sand and coral
Natural resources:
    fish
Land use:
    arable land 0%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 0%; forest and
    woodland 0%; other - grass and sand 100%
Environment:
    surrounded by shoals and reefs; Ashmore Reef National Nature Reserve
    established in August 1983
Note:
    located in extreme eastern Indian Ocean between Australia and Indonesia, 320
    km off the northwest coast of Australia

:Ashmore and Cartier Islands People

Population:
    no permanent inhabitants; seasonal caretakers

:Ashmore and Cartier Islands Government

Long-form name:
    Territory of Ashmore and Cartier Islands
Type:
    territory of Australia administered by the Australian Minister for Arts,
    Sports, the Environment, Tourism, and Territories - Roslyn KELLY
Capital:
    none; administered from Canberra, Australia
Administrative divisions:
    none (territory of Australia)
Legal system:
    relevant laws of the Northern Territory of Australia
Diplomatic representation:
    none (territory of Australia)

:Ashmore and Cartier Islands Economy

Overview:
    no economic activity

:Ashmore and Cartier Islands Communications

Ports:
    none; offshore anchorage only

:Ashmore and Cartier Islands Defense Forces

Note:
    defense is the responsibility of Australia; periodic visits by the Royal
    Australian Navy and Royal Australian Air Force

:Atlantic Ocean Geography

Total area:
    82,217,000 km2
Land area:
    82,217,000 km2; includes Baltic Sea, Black Sea, Caribbean Sea, Davis Strait,
    Denmark Strait, Drake Passage, Gulf of Mexico, Mediterranean Sea, North Sea,
    Norwegian Sea, Weddell Sea, and other tributary water bodies
Comparative area:
    slightly less than nine times the size of the US; second-largest of the
    world's four oceans (after the Pacific Ocean, but larger than Indian Ocean
    or Arctic Ocean)
Coastline:
    111,866 km
Disputes:
    some maritime disputes (see littoral states)
Climate:
    tropical cyclones (hurricanes) develop off the coast of Africa near Cape
    Verde and move westward into the Caribbean Sea; hurricanes can occur from
    May to December, but are most frequent from August to November
Terrain:
    surface usually covered with sea ice in Labrador Sea, Denmark Strait, and
    Baltic Sea from October to June; clockwise warm water gyre (broad, circular
    system of currents) in the north Atlantic, counterclockwise warm water gyre
    in the south Atlantic; the ocean floor is dominated by the Mid-Atlantic
    Ridge, a rugged north-south centerline for the entire Atlantic basin;
    maximum depth is 8,605 meters in the Puerto Rico Trench
Natural resources:
    oil and gas fields, fish, marine mammals (seals and whales), sand and gravel
    aggregates, placer deposits, polymetallic nodules, precious stones
Environment:
    endangered marine species include the manatee, seals, sea lions, turtles,
    and whales; municipal sludge pollution off eastern US, southern Brazil, and
    eastern Argentina; oil pollution in Caribbean Sea, Gulf of Mexico, Lake
    Maracaibo, Mediterranean Sea, and North Sea; industrial waste and municipal
    sewage pollution in Baltic Sea, North Sea, and Mediterranean Sea; icebergs
    common in Davis Strait, Denmark Strait, and the northwestern Atlantic from
    February to August and have been spotted as far south as Bermuda and the
    Madeira Islands; icebergs from Antarctica occur in the extreme southern
    Atlantic
Note:
    ships subject to superstructure icing in extreme north Atlantic from October
    to May and extreme south Atlantic from May to October; persistent fog can be
    a hazard to shipping from May to September; major choke points include the
    Dardanelles, Strait of Gibraltar, access to the Panama and Suez Canals;
    strategic straits include the Dover Strait, Straits of Florida, Mona
    Passage, The Sound (Oresund), and Windward Passage; north Atlantic shipping
    lanes subject to icebergs from February to August; the Equator divides the
    Atlantic Ocean into the North Atlantic Ocean and South Atlantic Ocean
    Kiel Canal and Saint Lawrence Seaway are two important waterways

:Atlantic Ocean Economy

Overview:
    Economic activity is limited to exploitation of natural resources,
    especially fish, dredging aragonite sands (The Bahamas), and crude oil and
    natural gas production (Caribbean Sea and North Sea).

:Atlantic Ocean Communications

Ports:
    Alexandria (Egypt), Algiers (Algeria), Antwerp (Belgium), Barcelona (Spain),
    Buenos Aires (Argentina), Casablanca (Morocco), Colon (Panama), Copenhagen
    (Denmark), Dakar (Senegal), Gdansk (Poland), Hamburg (Germany), Helsinki
    (Finland), Las Palmas (Canary Islands, Spain), Le Havre (France), Lisbon
    (Portugal), London (UK), Marseille (France), Montevideo (Uruguay), Montreal
    (Canada), Naples (Italy), New Orleans (US), New York (US), Oran (Algeria),
    Oslo (Norway), Piraeus (Greece), Rio de Janeiro (Brazil), Rotterdam
    (Netherlands), Saint Petersburg (formerly Leningrad; Russia), Stockholm
    (Sweden)
Telecommunications:
    numerous submarine cables with most between continental Europe and the UK,
    North America and the UK, and in the Mediterranean; numerous direct links
    across Atlantic via INTELSAT satellite network

:Australia Geography

Total area:
    7,686,850 km2
Land area:
    7,617,930 km2; includes Macquarie Island
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than the US
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    25,760 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    12 nm
  Continental shelf:
    200 m (depth) or to depth of exploitation
  Exclusive fishing zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    territorial claim in Antarctica (Australian Antarctic Territory)
Climate:
    generally arid to semiarid; temperate in south and east; tropical in north
Terrain:
    mostly low plateau with deserts; fertile plain in southeast
Natural resources:
    bauxite, coal, iron ore, copper, tin, silver, uranium, nickel, tungsten,
    mineral sands, lead, zinc, diamonds, natural gas, crude oil
Land use:
    arable land 6%; permanent crops NEGL%; meadows and pastures 58%; forest and
    woodland 14%; other 22%; includes irrigated NEGL%
Environment:
    subject to severe droughts and floods; cyclones along coast; limited
    freshwater availability; irrigated soil degradation; regular, tropical,
    invigorating, sea breeze known as the doctor occurs along west coast in
    summer; desertification
Note:
    world's smallest continent but sixth-largest country

:Australia People

Population:
    17,576,354 (July 1992), growth rate 1.4% (1992)
Birth rate:
    15 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    7 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    7 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    8 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    74 years male, 80 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    1.8 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Australian(s); adjective - Australian
Ethnic divisions:
    Caucasian 95%, Asian 4%, Aboriginal and other 1%
Religions:
    Anglican 26.1%, Roman Catholic 26.0%, other Christian 24.3%
Languages:
    English, native languages
Literacy:
    100% (male 100%, female 100%) age 15 and over can read and write (1980 est.)
Labor force:
    8,630,000 (September 1991); finance and services 33.8%, public and community
    services 22.3%, wholesale and retail trade 20.1%, manufacturing and industry
    16.2%, agriculture 6.1% (1987)
Organized labor:
    40% of labor force (November 1991)

:Australia Government

Long-form name:
    Commonwealth of Australia
Type:
    federal parliamentary state
Capital:
    Canberra
Administrative divisions:
    6 states and 2 territories*; Australian Capital Territory*, New South Wales,
    Northern Territory*, Queensland, South Australia, Tasmania, Victoria,
    Western Australia
Independence:
    1 January 1901 (federation of UK colonies)
Constitution:
    9 July 1900, effective 1 January 1901
Dependent areas:
    Ashmore and Cartier Islands, Christmas Island, Cocos (Keeling) Islands,
    Coral Sea Islands, Heard Island and McDonald Islands, Norfolk Island
Legal system:
    based on English common law; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with
    reservations
National holiday:
    Australia Day, 26 January
Executive branch:
    British monarch, governor general, prime minister, deputy prime minister,
    Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    bicameral Federal Parliament consists of an upper house or Senate and a
    lower house or House of Representatives
Judicial branch:
    High Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Queen ELIZABETH II (since February 1952), represented by Governor General
    William George HAYDEN (since 16 February 1989)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Paul John KEATING (since 20 December 1991); Deputy Prime
    Minister Brian HOWE (since 4 June 1991)
Political parties and leaders:
  government:
    Australian Labor Party, Paul John KEATING
  opposition:
    Liberal Party, John HEWSON; National Party, Timothy FISCHER; Australian
    Democratic Party, John COULTER
Suffrage:
    universal and compulsory at age 18
Elections:
  House of Representatives:
    last held 24 March 1990 (next to be held by NA November 1993); results -
    Labor 39.7%, Liberal-National 43%, Australian Democrats and independents
    11.1%; seats - (148 total) Labor 78, Liberal-National 69, independent 1
  Senate:
    last held 11 July 1987 (next to be held by NA July 1993); results - Labor
    43%, Liberal-National 42%, Australian Democrats 8%, independents 2%; seats -
    (76 total) Labor 32, Liberal-National 34, Australian Democrats 7,
    independents 3
Communists:
    4,000 members (est.)

:Australia Government

Other political or pressure groups:
    Australian Democratic Labor Party (anti-Communist Labor Party splinter
    group); Peace and Nuclear Disarmament Action (Nuclear Disarmament Party
    splinter group)
Member of:
    AfDB, AG (observer), ANZUS, APEC, AsDB, Australia Group, BIS, C, CCC, COCOM,
    CP, EBRD, ESCAP, FAO, GATT, G-8, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, IDA, IEA,
    IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INMARSAT, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU,
    LORCS, MTCR, NAM (guest), NEA, NSG, OECD, PCA, SPC, SPF, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
    UNFICYP, UNHCR, UNIIMOG, UNTAG, UNTSO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Michael J. COOK; Chancery at 1601 Massachusetts Avenue NW,
    Washington, DC 20036; telephone (202) 797-3000; there are Australian
    Consulates General in Chicago, Honolulu, Houston, Los Angeles, New York,
    Pago Pago (American Samoa), and San Francisco
  US:
    Ambassador Melvin F. SEMBLER; Moonah Place, Yarralumla, Canberra, Australian
    Capital Territory 2600 (mailing address is APO AP 96549); telephone [61] (6)
    270-5000; FAX [61] (6) 270-5970; there are US Consulates General in
    Melbourne, Perth, and Sydney, and a Consulate in Brisbane
Flag:
    blue with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side quadrant and a large
    seven-pointed star in the lower hoist-side quadrant; the remaining half is a
    representation of the Southern Cross constellation in white with one small
    five-pointed star and four, larger, seven-pointed stars

:Australia Economy

Overview:
    Australia has a prosperous Western-style capitalist economy, with a per
    capita GDP comparable to levels in industrialized West European countries.
    Rich in natural resources, Australia is a major exporter of agricultural
    products, minerals, metals, and fossil fuels. Of the top 25 exports, 21 are
    primary products, so that, as happened during 1983-84, a downturn in world
    commodity prices can have a big impact on the economy. The government is
    pushing for increased exports of manufactured goods, but competition in
    international markets continues to be severe.
GDP:
    purchasing power equivalent - $280.8 billion, per capita $16,200; real
    growth rate --0.6% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    3.3% (September 1991)
Unemployment rate:
    10.5% (November 1991)
Budget:
    revenues $76.9 billion; expenditures $75.4 billion, including capital
    expenditures of NA (FY91)
Exports:
    $41.7 billion (f.o.b., FY91)
  commodities:
    metals, minerals, coal, wool, cereals, meat, manufacturers
  partners:
    Japan 26%, US 11%, NZ 6%, South Korea 4%, Singapore 4%, UK, Taiwan, Hong
    Kong
Imports:
    $37.8 billion (f.o.b., FY91)
  commodities:
    manufactured raw materials, capital equipment, consumer goods
  partners:
    US 24%, Japan 19%, UK 6%, FRG 7%, NZ 4% (1990)
External debt:
    $130.4 billion (June 1991)
Industrial production:
    growth rate --0.9% (1991); accounts for 32% of GDP
Electricity:
    40,000,000 kW capacity; 155,000 million kWh produced, 8,960 kWh per capita
    (1991)
Industries:
    mining, industrial and transportation equipment, food processing, chemicals,
    steel, motor vehicles
Agriculture:
    accounts for 5% of GNP and 37% of export revenues; world's largest exporter
    of beef and wool, second-largest for mutton, and among top wheat exporters;
    major crops - wheat, barley, sugarcane, fruit; livestock - cattle, sheep,
    poultry
Illicit drugs:
    Tasmania is one of the world's major suppliers of licit opiate products;
    government maintains strict controls over areas of opium poppy cultivation
    and output of poppy straw concentrate
Economic aid:
    donor - ODA and OOF commitments (1970-89), $10.4 billion
Currency:
    Australian dollar (plural - dollars); 1 Australian dollar ($A) = 100 cents
Exchange rates:
    Australian dollars ($A) per US$1 - 1.3360 (January 1992), 1.2836 (1991),
    1.2618 (1989), 1.2752 (1988), 1.4267 (1987)

:Australia Economy

Fiscal year:
    1 July - 30 June

:Australia Communications

Railroads:
    40,478 km total; 7,970 km 1.600-meter gauge, 16,201 km 1.435-meter standard
    gauge, 16,307 km 1.067-meter gauge; 183 km dual gauge; 1,130 km electrified;
    government owned (except for a few hundred kilometers of privately owned
    track) (1985)
Highways:
    837,872 km total; 243,750 km paved, 228,396 km gravel, crushed stone, or
    stabilized soil surface, 365,726 km unimproved earth
Inland waterways:
    8,368 km; mainly by small, shallow-draft craft
Pipelines:
    crude oil 2,500 km; petroleum products 500 km; natural gas 5,600 km
Ports:
    Adelaide, Brisbane, Cairns, Darwin, Devonport, Fremantle, Geelong, Hobart,
    Launceston, Mackay, Melbourne, Sydney, Townsville
Merchant marine:
    85 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 2,324,803 GRT/3,504,385 DWT; includes
    2 short-sea passenger, 8 cargo, 8 container, 11 roll-on/roll-off, 1 vehicle
    carrier, 17 petroleum tanker, 2 chemical tanker, 4 liquefied gas, 1
    combination ore/oil, 30 bulk, 1 combination bulk
Civil air:
    about 150 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    481 total, 440 usable; 237 with permanent-surface runways, 1 with runway
    over 3,659 m; 20 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 268 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    good international and domestic service; 8.7 million telephones; broadcast
    stations - 258 AM, 67 FM, 134 TV; submarine cables to New Zealand, Papua New
    Guinea, and Indonesia; domestic satellite service; satellite stations - 4
    Indian Ocean INTELSAT, 6 Pacific Ocean INTELSAT earth stations

:Australia Defense Forces

Branches:
    Australian Army, Royal Australian Navy, Royal Australian Air Force
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 4,769,005; 4,153,060 fit for military service; 138,117 reach
    military age (17) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $7.5 billion, 2.4% of GDP (FY92 budget)

:Austria Geography

Total area:
    83,850 km2
Land area:
    82,730 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than Maine
Land boundaries:
    2,591 km total; Czechoslovakia 548 km, Germany 784 km, Hungary 366 km, Italy
    430 km, Liechtenstein 37 km, Slovenia 262 km, Switzerland 164 km
Coastline:
    none - landlocked
Maritime claims:
    none - landlocked
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    temperate; continental, cloudy; cold winters with frequent rain in lowlands
    and snow in mountains; cool summers with occasional showers
Terrain:
    mostly mountains with Alps in west and south; mostly flat, with gentle
    slopes along eastern and northern margins
Natural resources:
    iron ore, crude oil, timber, magnesite, aluminum, lead, coal, lignite,
    copper, hydropower
Land use:
    arable land 17%; permanent crops 1%; meadows and pastures 24%; forest and
    woodland 39%; other 19%; includes irrigated NEGL%
Environment:
    because of steep slopes, poor soils, and cold temperatures, population is
    concentrated on eastern lowlands
Note:
    landlocked; strategic location at the crossroads of central Europe with many
    easily traversable Alpine passes and valleys; major river is the Danube

:Austria People

Population:
    7,867,541 (July 1992), growth rate 0.7% (1992)
Birth rate:
    12 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    11 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    5 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    8 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    73 years male, 80 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    1.5 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Austrian(s); adjective - Austrian
Ethnic divisions:
    German 99.4%, Croatian 0.3%, Slovene 0.2%, other 0.1%
Religions:
    Roman Catholic 85%, Protestant 6%, other 9%
Languages:
    German
Literacy:
    99% (male NA%, female NA%) age 15 and over can read and write (1974 est.)
Labor force:
    3,470,000 (1989); services 56.4%, industry and crafts 35.4%, agriculture and
    forestry 8.1%; an estimated 200,000 Austrians are employed in other European
    countries; foreign laborers in Austria number 177,840, about 6% of labor
    force (1988)
Organized labor:
    60.1% of work force; the Austrian Trade Union Federation has 1,644,408
    members (1989)

:Austria Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Austria
Type:
    federal republic
Capital:
    Vienna
Administrative divisions:
    9 states (bundeslander, singular - bundesland); Burgenland, Karnten,
    Niederosterreich, Oberosterreich, Salzburg, Steiermark, Tirol, Vorarlberg,
    Wien
Independence:
    12 November 1918 (from Austro-Hungarian Empire)
Constitution:
    1920; revised 1929 (reinstated 1945)
Legal system:
    civil law system with Roman law origin; judicial review of legislative acts
    by a Constitutional Court; separate administrative and civil/penal supreme
    courts; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
National holiday:
    National Day, 26 October (1955)
Executive branch:
    president, chancellor, vice chancellor, Council of Ministers (cabinet)
Legislative branch:
    bicameral Federal Assembly (Bundesversammlung) consists of an upper council
    or Federal Council (Bundesrat) and a lower council or National Council
    (Nationalrat)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Judicial Court (Oberster Gerichtshof) for civil and criminal cases,
    Administrative Court (Verwaltungsgerichtshof) for bureaucratic cases,
    Constitutional Court (Verfassungsgerichtshof) for constitutional cases
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Thomas KLESTIL (since 8 July 1992)
  Head of Government:
    Chancellor Franz VRANITZKY (since 16 June 1986); Vice Chancellor Erhard
    BUSEK (since 2 July 1991)
Political parties and leaders:
    Social Democratic Party of Austria (SPO), Franz VRANITZKY, chairman;
    Austrian People's Party (OVP), Erhard BUSEK, chairman; Freedom Party of
    Austria (FPO), Jorg HAIDER, chairman; Communist Party (KPO), Walter
    SILBERMAYER, chairman; Green Alternative List (GAL), Johannes VOGGENHUBER,
    chairman
Suffrage:
    universal at age 19; compulsory for presidential elections
Elections:
  National Council:
    last held 7 October 1990 (next to be held October 1994); results - SPO 43%,
    OVP 32.1%, FPO 16.6%, GAL 4.5%, KPO 0.7%, other 0.32%; seats - (183 total)
    SPO 80, OVP 60, FPO 33, GAL 10
  President:
    last held 24 May 1992 (next to be held 1996); results of Second Ballot -
    Thomas KLESTIL 57%, Rudolf STREICHER 43%
Communists:
    membership 15,000 est.; activists 7,000-8,000

:Austria Government

Other political or pressure groups:
    Federal Chamber of Commerce and Industry; Austrian Trade Union Federation
    (primarily Socialist); three composite leagues of the Austrian People's
    Party (OVP) representing business, labor, and farmers; OVP-oriented League
    of Austrian Industrialists; Roman Catholic Church, including its chief lay
    organization, Catholic Action
Member of:
    AfDB, AG (observer), AsDB, Australia Group, BIS, CCC, CE, CERN, COCOM, CSCE,
    EBRD, ECE, EFTA, ESA, FAO, G-9, GATT, HG, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC,
    ICFTU, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, IOM,
    ISO, ITU, LORCS, MTRC, NAM (guest), NEA, NSG, OAS (observer), OECD, PCA, UN,
    UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNDOF, UNFICYP, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIIMOG, UNTSO, UPU, WCL,
    WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Friedrich HOESS; Embassy at 3524 International Court NW,
    Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 895-6700; there are Austrian
    Consulates General in Chicago, Los Angeles, and New York
  US:
    Ambassador Roy Michael HUFFINGTON; Embassy at Boltzmanngasse 16, A-1091,
    Vienna (mailing address is APO AE 09108-0001); telephone [43] (1) 31-55-11;
    FAX [43] (1) 310-0682; there is a US Consulate General in Salzburg
Flag:
    three equal horizontal bands of red (top), white, and red

:Austria Economy

Overview:
    Austria boasts a prosperous and stable capitalist economy with a sizable
    proportion of nationalized industry and extensive welfare benefits. Thanks
    to an excellent raw material endowment, a technically skilled labor force,
    and strong links to German industrial firms, Austria occupies specialized
    niches in European industry and services (tourism, banking) and produces
    almost enough food to feed itself with only 8% of the labor force in
    agriculture. Improved export prospects resulting from German unification and
    the opening of Eastern Europe, boosted the economy during 1990 and to a
    lesser extent in 1991. GDP growth slowed from 4.9% in 1990 to 3% in 1991 -
    mainly due to the weaker world economy - and is expected to drop to around
    2% in 1992. Inflation is forecasted at about 4%, while unemployment probably
    will increase moderately through 1992 before declining in 1993. Living
    standards are comparable with the large industrial countries of Western
    Europe. Problems for the l990s include an aging population, the high level
    of subsidies, and the struggle to keep welfare benefits within budget
    capabilities. Austria, which has applied for EC membership, was involved in
    EC and European Free Trade Association negotiations for a European Economic
    Area and will have to adapt its economy to achieve freer interchange of
    goods, services, capital, and labor within the EC.
GDP:
    purchasing power equivalent - $164.1 billion, per capita $20,985; real
    growth rate 3% (1991)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    3.3% (1991, annual rate)
Unemployment rate:
    5.8% (1991)
Budget:
    revenues $47.7 billion; expenditures $53.0 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $NA (1990)
Exports:
    $40 billion (1991)
  commodities:
    machinery and equipment, iron and steel, lumber, textiles, paper products,
    chemicals
  partners:
    EC 65.8%, (Germany 39%), EFTA 9.1%, Eastern Europe/former USSR 9.0%, Japan
    1.7%, US 2.8%
Imports:
    $50.2 billion (1991)
  commodities:
    petroleum, foodstuffs, machinery and equipment, vehicles, chemicals,
    textiles and clothing, pharmaceuticals
  partners:
    EC 67.8% (Germany is 43.0%), EFTA 6.9%, Eastern Europe/former USSR 6.0%,
    Japan 4.8%, US 3.9%
External debt:
    $11.8 billion (1990 est.)
Industrial production:
    2.0% (1991)
Electricity:
    17,600,000 kW capacity; 49,500 million kWh produced, 6,500 kWh per capita
    (1991)
Industries:
    foods, iron and steel, machines, textiles, chemicals, electrical, paper and
    pulp, tourism, mining

:Austria Economy

Agriculture:
    accounts for 3.2% of GDP (including forestry); principal crops and animals -
    grains, fruit, potatoes, sugar beets, sawn wood, cattle, pigs, poultry;
    80-90% self-sufficient in food
Economic aid:
    donor - ODA and OOF commitments (1970-89), $2.4 billion
Currency:
    Austrian schilling (plural - schillings); 1 Austrian schilling (S) = 100
    groschen
Exchange rates:
    Austrian schillings (S) per US$1 - 11.068 (January 1992), 11.676 (1991),
    11.370 (1990), 13.231 (1989), 12.348 (1988), 12.643 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Austria Communications

Railroads:
    6,028 km total; 5,388 km government owned and 640 km privately owned (1.435-
    and 1.000-meter gauge); 5,403 km 1.435-meter standard gauge of which 3,051
    km is electrified and 1,520 km is double tracked; 363 km 0.760-meter narrow
    gauge of which 91 km is electrified
Highways:
    95,412 km total; 34,612 km are the primary network (including 1,012 km of
    autobahn, 10,400 km of federal, and 23,200 km of provincial roads); of this
    number, 21,812 km are paved and 12,800 km are unpaved; in addition, there
    are 60,800 km of communal roads (mostly gravel, crushed stone, earth)
Inland waterways:
    446 km
Pipelines:
    crude oil 554 km; natural gas 2,611 km; petroleum products 171 km
Ports:
    Vienna, Linz (river ports)
Merchant marine:
    31 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 130,966 GRT/219,130 DWT; includes 26
    cargo, 1 container, 4 bulk
Civil air:
    25 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    55 total, 55 usable; 20 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 6 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 4 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    highly developed and efficient; 4,014,000 telephones; broadcast stations - 6
    AM, 21 (545 repeaters) FM, 47 (870 repeaters) TV; satellite ground stations
    for Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT, Indian Ocean INTELSAT, and EUTELSAT systems

:Austria Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Flying Division, Gendarmerie
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 2,011,895; 1,693,244 fit for military service; 51,788 reach
    military age (19) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $1.8 billion, 1% of GDP (1991)

:Azerbaijan Geography

Total area:
    86,600 km2
Land area:
    86,100 km2; includes the Nakhichevan' Autonomous Republic and the
    Nagorno-Karabakh Autonomous Oblast; region's autonomy was abolished by
    Azerbaijan Supreme Soviet on 26 November 1991
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than Maine
Land boundaries:
    2,013 km total; Armenia (west) 566 km, Armenia (southwest) 221 km, Georgia
    322 km, Iran (south) 432 km, Iran (southwest) 179 km, Russia 284 km, Turkey
    9 km
Coastline:
    none - landlocked
Maritime claims:
    NA
  Exclusive fishing zone:
    NA nm; Azerbaijani claims in Caspian Sea unknown; 10 nm fishing zone
    provided for in 1940 treaty regarding trade and navigation between Soviet
    Union and Iran
Disputes:
    violent and longstanding dispute with Armenia over status of
    Nagorno-Karabakh, lesser dispute concerns Nakhichevan'; some Azeris desire
    absorption of and/or unification with the ethnically Azeri portion of Iran;
    minor irredentist disputes along Georgia border
Climate:
    dry, semiarid steppe; subject to drought
Terrain:
    large, flat Kura Lowland (much of it below sea level) with Great Caucasus
    Mountains to the north, Karabakh Upland in west; Baku lies on Aspheson
    Peninsula that juts into Caspian Sea
Natural resources:
    petroleum, natural gas, iron ore, nonferrous metals, alumina
Land use:
    NA% arable land; NA% permanent crops; NA% meadows and pastures; NA% forest
    and woodland; NA% other; includes 70% of cultivated land irrigated (1.2
    million hectares)
Environment:
    local scientists consider Apsheron Peninsula, including Baku and Sumgait,
    and the Caspian Sea to be "most ecologically devastated area in the world"
    because of severe air and water pollution
Note:
    landlocked; major polluters are oil, gas, and chemical industries

:Azerbaijan People

Population:
    7,450,787 (July 1992), growth rate 1.6% (1992)
Birth rate:
    26 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    7 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    --3 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    45 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    65 years male, 73 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    2.9 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Azerbaijani(s); adjective - Azerbaijani
Ethnic divisions:
    Azeri 82.7%, Russian 5.6%, Armenian 5.6%, Daghestanis 3.2%, other 2.9%; note
    - Armenian share may be less than 5.6% because many Armenians have fled the
    ethnic violence since 1989 census
Religions:
    Moslem 87%, Russian Orthodox 5.6%, Armenian Orthodox 5.6%, other 1.8%
Languages:
    Azeri 82%, Russian 7%, Armenian 5%, other 6%
Literacy:
    NA% (male NA%, female NA%) age 15 and over can read and write (1992 est.)
Labor force:
    2,789,000; agriculture and forestry 32%, industry and construction 26%,
    other 42% (1990)
Organized labor:
    NA (1992)

:Azerbaijan Government

Long-form name:
    Azerbaijani Republic; short-form name: Azerbaijan
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Baku (Baky)
Administrative divisions:
    1 autonomous republic (avtomnaya respublika), Nakhichevan' (administrative
    center at Nakhichevan'); note - all rayons except for the exclave of
    Nakhichevan' are under direct republic jurisdiction;1 autonomous oblast,
    Nagorno-Karabakh (officially abolished by Azerbaijani Supreme Soviet on 26
    November 1991) has declared itself Nagorno-Karabakh Republic
Independence:
    28 May 1918; on 28 April 1920, Azerbaijan became the Soviet Socialist
    Republic of Azerbaijan; on 30 April 1992 it became the Azerbaijani Republic;
    independence declared 30 August 1991
Constitution:
    adopted NA April 1978
Legal system:
    based on civil law system
National holiday:
    NA
Executive branch:
    president, Council of Ministers
Legislative branch:
    National Parliament (Milli Majlis) was formed on the basis of the National
    Council (Milli Shura)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President-elect Ebulfez ELCIBEY (since 7 June 1992)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Rahim GUSEYNOV (since 14 May 1992)
Political parties and leaders:
    NA
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  National Parliament:
    last held NA September 1990 (next expected to be held late 1992); results -
    seats - (360 total) Communists 280, Democratic Bloc 45 (grouping of
    opposition parties), other 15, vacant 20; note - these figures are
    approximate
  President:
    held 8 September 1991 (next to be held 7 June 1992); results - Ebulfez
    ELCIBEY (6,390 unofficial)
Other political or pressure groups:
    Self-proclaimed Armenian Nagorno-Karabakh Republic
Member of:
    CIS, CSCE, IMF, OIC, UN, UNCTAD
Diplomatic representation:
    NA
  US:
    Ambassador (vacant); Robert MILES, Charge d'Affaires; Embassy at Hotel
    Intourist (telephone 8-011-7-8922-91-79-56) plus 8 hours; (mailing address
    is APO New York is 09862); telephone NA

:Azerbaijan Government

Flag:
    three equal horizontal bands of blue (top), red, and green; a crescent and
    eight-pointed star in white are centered in red band

:Azerbaijan Economy

Overview:
    Azerbaijan is less developed industrially than either Armenia or Georgia,
    the other Transcaucasian states. It resembles the Central Asian states in
    its majority Muslim population, high structural unemployment, and low
    standard of living. The economy's most prominent products are cotton, oil,
    and gas. Production from the Caspian oil and gas field has been in decline
    for several years. With foreign assistance, the oil industry might generate
    the funds needed to spur industrial development. However, civil unrest,
    marked by armed conflict in the Nagorno-Karabakh region between Muslim
    Azeris and Christian Armenians, makes foreign investors wary. Azerbaijan
    accounts for 1.5% to 2% of the capital stock and output of the former Soviet
    Union. Although immediate economic prospects are not favorable because of
    civil strife, lack of economic reform, political disputes about new economic
    arrangements, and the skittishness of foreign investors, Azerbaijan's
    economic performance was the best of all former Soviet republics in 1991
    largely because of its reliance on domestic resources for industrial output.
GDP:
    $NA, per capita $NA; real growth rate --0.7% (1991)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    87% (1991)
Unemployment rate:
    NA%
Budget:
    revenues $NA; expenditures $NA, including capital expenditures of $NA (1992)
Exports:
    $780 million (f.o.b., 1991)
  commodities:
    oil and gas, chemicals, oilfield equipment, textiles, cotton (1991)
  partners:
    mostly CIS countries
Imports:
    $2.2 billion (c.i.f., 1990)
  commodities:
    machinery and parts, consumer durables, foodstuffs, textiles (1991)
External debt:
    $1.3 billion (1991 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 3.8% (1991)
Electricity:
    6,025,000 kW capacity; 23,300 million kWh produced, 3,280 kWh per capita
    (1991)
Industries:
    petroleum and natural gas, petroleum products, oilfield equipment; steel,
    iron ore, cement; chemicals and petrochemicals; textiles
Agriculture:
    cotton, grain, rice, grapes, fruit, vegetables, tea, tobacco; cattle, pigs,
    sheep and goats
Illicit drugs:
    illicit producer of cannabis and opium; mostly for domestic consumption;
    status of government eradication programs unknown; used as transshipment
    points for illicit drugs to Western Europe
Economic aid:
    NA
Currency:
    as of May 1992, retaining ruble as currency
Exchange rates:
    NA
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Azerbaijan Communications

Railroads:
    2,090 km (includes NA km electrified); does not include industrial lines
    (1990)
Highways:
    36,700 km total (1990); 31,800 km hard surfaced; 4,900 km earth
Inland waterways:
    NA km perennially navigable
Pipelines:
    NA
Ports:
    inland - Baku (Baky)
Merchant marine:
    none - landlocked
Civil air:
    none
Airports:
    NA
Telecommunications:
    quality of local telephone service is poor; connections to other former USSR
    republics by landline or microwave and to countries beyond the former USSR
    via the Moscow international gateway switch; Azeri and Russian TV broadcasts
    are received; Turkish and Iranian TV broadcasts are received from INTELSAT
    through a TV receive-only earth station

:Azerbaijan Defense Forces

Branches:
    Republic Security Forces (internal and border troops), National Guard; CIS
    Forces (Ground, Navy, Air, Air Defense)
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, NA; NA fit for military service; NA reach military age (18)
    annually
Defense expenditures:
    $NA million, NA% of GDP

:The Bahamas Geography

Total area:
    13,940 km2
Land area:
    10,070 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than Connecticut
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    3,542 km
Maritime claims:
  Continental shelf:
    200 m (depth) or to depth of exploitation
  Exclusive fishing zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    3 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    tropical marine; moderated by warm waters of Gulf Stream
Terrain:
    long, flat coral formations with some low rounded hills
Natural resources:
    salt, aragonite, timber
Land use:
    arable land 1%; permanent crops NEGL%; meadows and pastures NEGL%; forest
    and woodland 32%; other 67%
Environment:
    subject to hurricanes and other tropical storms that cause extensive flood
    damage
Note:
    strategic location adjacent to US and Cuba; extensive island chain

:The Bahamas People

Population:
    255,811 (July 1992), growth rate 1.4% (1992)
Birth rate:
    19 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    5 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    19 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    69 years male, 76 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    2.2 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun--Bahamian(s); adjective--Bahamian
Ethnic divisions:
    black 85%, white 15%
Religions:
    Baptist 32%, Anglican 20%, Roman Catholic 19%, Methodist 6%, Church of God
    6%, other Protestant 12%, none or unknown 3%, other 2% (1980)
Languages:
    English; some Creole among Haitian immigrants
Literacy:
    90% (male 90%, female 89%) age 15 and over but definition of literacy not
    available (1963 est.)
Labor force:
    127,400; government 30%, hotels and restaurants 25%, business services
    10%, agriculture 5% (1989)
Organized labor:
    25% of labor force

:The Bahamas Government

Long-form name:
    The Commonwealth of The Bahamas
Type:
    commonwealth
Capital:
    Nassau
Administrative divisions:
    21 districts; Abaco, Acklins Island, Andros Island, Berry Islands,
    Biminis, Cat Island, Cay Lobos, Crooked Island, Eleuthera, Exuma, Grand
    Bahama, Harbour Island, Inagua, Long Cay, Long Island, Mayaguana,
    New Providence, Ragged Island, Rum Cay, San Salvador,
    Spanish Wells
Independence:
    10 July 1973 (from UK)
Constitution:
    10 July 1973
Legal system:
    based on English common law
National holiday:
    National Day, 10 July (1973)
Executive branch:
    British monarch, governor general, prime minister, deputy prime
    minister, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    bicameral Parliament consists of an upper house or Senate and a lower
    house or House of Assembly
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952), represented by
    Acting Governor General Sir Clifford DARLING (since 2 January 1992)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Sir Lynden Oscar PINDLING (since 16 January 1967)
Political parties and leaders:
    Progressive Liberal Party (PLP), Sir Lynden O. PINDLING; Free National
    Movement (FNM), Hubert Alexander INGRAHAM
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  House of Assembly:
    last held 19 June 1987 (next to be held by NA June 1992);
    results--percent of vote by party NA; seats--(49 total) PLP 32, FNM 17
    *** No entry for this item ***
Other political or pressure groups:
    Vanguard Nationalist and Socialist Party (VNSP), a small leftist party
    headed
    by Lionel CAREY; Trade Union Congress (TUC), headed by Arlington MILLER
Member of:
    ACP, C, CCC, CARICOM, CDB, ECLAC, FAO, G-77, IADB, IBRD, ICAO,
    ICFTU, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, ITU, LORCS, NAM,
    OAS, OPANAL, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Margaret E. McDONALD; Chancery at 2220 Massachusetts
    Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 319-2660; there are
    Bahamian Consulates General in Miami and New York;

:The Bahamas Government

  US:
    Ambassador Chic HECHT; Embassy at Mosmar Building, Queen Street, Nassau
    (mailing address is P. O. Box N-8197, Nassau); telephone (809) 322-1181 or
    328-2206; FAX (809) 328-7838
Diplomatic representation:
    *** No entry for this item ***
Flag:
    three equal horizontal bands of aquamarine (top), gold, and aquamarine with
    a black equilateral triangle based on the hoist side

:The Bahamas Economy

Overview:
    The Bahamas is a stable, middle-income developing nation whose economy is
    based primarily on tourism and offshore banking. Tourism alone provides
    about 50% of GDP and directly or indirectly employs about 50,000 people or
    40% of the local work force. The economy has slackened in recent years, as
    the annual increase in the number of tourists slowed. Nonetheless, the per
    capita GDP of $9,900 is one of the highest in the region.
GDP:
    purchasing power equivalent--$2.5 billion, per capita $9,900; real growth
    rate 1.0% (1990 est.)
    *** No entry for this item ***
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    7.3% (1991 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    16.0% (1991)
Budget:
    revenues $627.5 million; expenditures $727.5 million, including capital
    expenditures of $100 million (1992, projected)
    *** No entry for this item ***
Exports:
    $306 million (f.o.b., 1991 est.);
  commodities:
    pharmaceuticals, cement, rum, crawfish;
  partners:
    US 41%, Norway 30%, Denmark 4%
Imports:
    $1.14 billion (c.i.f., 1991 est.);
  commodities:
    foodstuffs, manufactured goods, mineral fuels;
  partners:
    US 35%, Nigeria 21%, Japan 13%, Angola 11%
External debt:
    $1.2 billion (December 1990)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 3% (1990); accounts for 15% of GDP
Electricity:
    368,000 kw capacity; 857 million kWh produced 3,339 kWh per capita
    (1991)
Industries:
    tourism, banking, cement, oil refining and transshipment, salt production,
    rum, aragonite, pharmaceuticals, spiral welded steel pipe
    *** No entry for this item ***
Agriculture:
    accounts for less than 5% of GDP; dominated by small-scale producers;
    principal products--citrus fruit, vegetables, poultry; large net importer of
    food
    *** No entry for this item ***
Illicit drugs:
    transshipment point for cocaine
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY85-89), $1.0 million; Western
    (non-US) countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $345
    million
Currency:
    Bahamian dollar (plural--dollars); 1 Bahamian dollar (B$) = 100 cents
Exchange rates:
    Bahamian dollar (B$) per US$1--1.00 (fixed rate)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:The Bahamas Communications

Highways:
    2,400 km total; 1,350 km paved, 1,050 km gravel
Ports:
    Freeport, Nassau
Merchant marine:
    778 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 18,129,173 GRT/30,002,421 DWT;
    includes 48 passenger, 19 short-sea passenger, 152 cargo, 37
    roll-on/roll-off cargo, 42 container, 6 vehicle carrier, 1 railcar carrier,
    172 petroleum tanker, 9 liquefied gas, 16 combination ore/oil, 47 chemical
    tanker, 1 specialized tanker, 143 bulk, 7 combination bulk, 78 refrigerated
    cargo;
    note--a flag of convenience registry
    *** No entry for this item ***
Civil air:
    11 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    59 total, 54 usable; 30 with permanent-surface runways; none with
    runways over 3,659 m; 3 with runways 2,440-3, 659 m; 26 with runways
    1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    highly developed; 99,000 telephones in totally automatic system;
    tropospheric scatter and submarine cable links to Florida; broadcast
    stations--3 AM, 2 FM, 1 TV; 3 coaxial submarine cables; 1 Atlantic Ocean
    INTELSAT earth station
    *** No entry for this item ***

:The Bahamas Defense Forces

Branches:
    Royal Bahamas Defense Force (Coast Guard only), Royal Bahamas Police
Branches:
    Force
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 68,020; NA fit for military service
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion--$65 million, 2.7% of GDP (1990)

:Bahrain Geography

Total area:
    620 km2
Land area:
    620 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly less than 3.5 times the size of Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    161 km
Maritime claims:
  Continental shelf:
    not specific
  Territorial sea:
    3 nm
Disputes:
    territorial dispute with Qatar over the Hawar Islands; maritime boundary
    with Qatar
Climate:
    arid; mild, pleasant winters; very hot, humid summers
Terrain:
    mostly low desert plain rising gently to low central escarpment
Natural resources:
    oil, associated and nonassociated natural gas, fish
Land use:
    arable land 2%; permanent crops 2%; meadows and pastures 6%; forest and
    woodland 0%; other 90%, includes irrigated NEGL%
Environment:
    subsurface water sources being rapidly depleted (requires development of
    desalination facilities); dust storms; desertification
Note:
    close to primary Middle Eastern crude oil sources; strategic location in
    Persian Gulf through which much of Western world's crude oil must transit to
    reach open ocean

:Bahrain People

Population:
    551,513 (July 1992), growth rate 3.1% (1992)
Birth rate:
    27 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    4 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    7 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    21 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    70 years male, 75 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    4.0 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Bahraini(s); adjective - Bahraini
Ethnic divisions:
    Bahraini 63%, Asian 13%, other Arab 10%, Iranian 8%, other 6%
Religions:
    Muslim (Shi`a 70%, Sunni 30%)
Languages:
    Arabic (official); English also widely spoken; Farsi, Urdu
Literacy:
    77% (male 82%, female 69%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    140,000; 42% of labor force is Bahraini; industry and commerce 85%,
    agriculture 5%, services 5%, government 3% (1982)
Organized labor:
    General Committee for Bahrain Workers exists in only eight major designated
    companies

:Bahrain Government

Long-form name:
    State of Bahrain
Type:
    traditional monarchy
Capital:
    Manama
Administrative divisions:
    12 districts (manatiq, singular - mintaqah); Al Hadd, Al Manamah, Al
    Mintaqah al Gharbiyah, Al Mintaqah al Wusta, Al Mintaqah ash Shamaliyah, Al
    Muharraq, Ar Rifa`wa al Mintaqah al Janubiyah, Jidd Hafs, Madinat Hamad,
    Madinat `Isa, Mintaqat Juzur Hawar, Sitrah
Independence:
    15 August 1971 (from UK)
Constitution:
    26 May 1973, effective 6 December 1973
Legal system:
    based on Islamic law and English common law
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 16 December
Executive branch:
    amir, crown prince and heir apparent, prime minister, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    unicameral National Assembly was dissolved 26 August 1975 and legislative
    powers were assumed by the Cabinet
Judicial branch:
    High Civil Appeals Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Amir `ISA bin Salman Al Khalifa (since 2 November 1961); Heir Apparent HAMAD
    bin `Isa Al Khalifa (son of Amir; born 28 January 1950)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister KHALIFA bin Salman Al Khalifa (since 19 January 1970)
Political parties and leaders:
    political parties prohibited; several small, clandestine leftist and Islamic
    fundamentalist groups are active
Suffrage:
    none
Elections:
    none
Member of:
    ABEDA, AFESD, AL, AMF, ESCWA, FAO, G-77, GCC, IBRD, ICAO, IDB, ILO, IMF,
    IMO, INMARSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, ISO (correspondent), ITU, LORCS, NAM, OAPEC,
    OIC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WMO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador `Abd al-Rahman Faris Al KHALIFA; Chancery at 3502 International
    Drive NW, Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 342-0741 or 342-0742; there
    is a Bahraini Consulate General in New York
  US:
    Ambassador Dr. Charles W. HOSTLER; Embassy at Road No. 3119 (next to Alahli
    Sports Club), Zinj; (mailing address is P. O. 26431, Manama, or FPO AE
    09834-6210); telephone [973] 273-300; FAX (973) 272-594
Flag:
    red with a white serrated band (eight white points) on the hoist side

:Bahrain Economy

Overview:
    Petroleum production and processing account for about 80% of export
    receipts, 60% of government revenues, and 31% of GDP. Economic conditions
    have fluctuated with the changing fortunes of oil since 1985, for example,
    the Gulf crisis of 1990-91. The liberation of Kuwait in early 1991 has
    improved short- to medium-term prospects and has raised investors'
    confidence. Bahrain with its highly developed communication and transport
    facilities is home to numerous multinational firms with business in the
    Gulf. A large share of exports is petroleum products made from imported
    crude.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $4.0 billion, per capita $7,500 (1990); real
    growth rate 6.7% (1988)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    1.5% (1989)
Unemployment rate:
    8-10% (1989)
Budget:
    revenues $1.2 billion; expenditures $1.32 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $NA (1989)
Exports:
    $3.7 billion (f.o.b., 1990 est.)
  commodities:
    petroleum and petroleum products 80%, aluminum 7%, other 13%
  partners:
    UAE 18%, Japan 12%, India 11%, US 6%
Imports:
    $3.7 billion (f.o.b., 1989)
  commodities:
    nonoil 59%, crude oil 41%
  partners:
    Saudi Arabia 41%, US 23%, Japan 8%, UK 8%
External debt:
    $1.1 billion (December 1989 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 3.8% (1988); accounts for 44% of GDP
Electricity:
    3,600,000 kW capacity; 10,500 million kWh produced, 21,000 kWh per capita
    (1991)
Industries:
    petroleum processing and refining, aluminum smelting, offshore banking, ship
    repairing
Agriculture:
    including fishing, accounts for less than 2% of GDP; not self-sufficient in
    food production; heavily subsidized sector produces fruit, vegetables,
    poultry, dairy products, shrimp, and fish; fish catch 9,000 metric tons in
    1987
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-79), $24 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $45 million; OPEC
    bilateral aid (1979-89), $9.8 billion
Currency:
    Bahraini dinar (plural - dinars); 1 Bahraini dinar (BD) = 1,000 fils
Exchange rates:
    Bahraini dinars (BD) per US$1 - 0.3760 (fixed rate)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Bahrain Communications

Highways:
    200 km bituminous surfaced, including 25 km bridge-causeway to Saudi Arabia
    opened in November 1986; NA km natural surface tracks
Pipelines:
    crude oil 56 km; petroleum products 16 km; natural gas 32 km
Ports:
    Mina' Salman, Manama, Sitrah
Merchant marine:
    9 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 186,367 GRT/249,441 DWT; includes 5
    cargo, 2 container, 1 liquefied gas, 1 bulk
Civil air:
    27 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    3 total, 3 usable; 2 with permanent-surface runways; 2 with runways over
    3,659 m; 1 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    excellent international telecommunications; good domestic services; 98,000
    telephones; broadcast stations - 2 AM, 3 FM, 2 TV; satellite earth stations
    - 1 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT, 1 Indian Ocean INTELSAT, 1 ARABSAT;
    tropospheric scatter to Qatar, UAE, and microwave to Saudi Arabia; submarine
    cable to Qatar, UAE, and Saudi Arabia

:Bahrain Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Navy, Air Force, Air Defense, Police Force
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 190,937; 105,857 fit for military service
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $194 million, 6% of GDP (1990)

:Baker Island Geography

Total area:
    1.4 km2
Land area:
    1.4 km2
Comparative area:
    about 2.3 times the size of the Mall in Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    4.8 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    12 nm
  Continental shelf:
    200 m (depth)
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    equatorial; scant rainfall, constant wind, burning sun
Terrain:
    low, nearly level coral island surrounded by a narrow fringing reef
Natural resources:
    guano (deposits worked until 1891)
Land use:
    arable land 0%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 0%; forest and
    woodland 0%; other 100%
Environment:
    treeless, sparse and scattered vegetation consisting of grasses, prostrate
    vines, and low growing shrubs; lacks fresh water; primarily a nesting,
    roosting, and foraging habitat for seabirds, shorebirds, and marine wildlife
Note:
    remote location 2,575 km southwest of Honolulu in the North Pacific Ocean,
    just north of the Equator, about halfway between Hawaii and Australia

:Baker Island People

Population:
    uninhabited; American civilians evacuated in 1942 after Japanese air and
    naval attacks during World War II; occupied by US military during World War
    II, but abandoned after the war; public entry is by special-use permit only
    and generally restricted to scientists and educators

:Baker Island Government

Long-form name:
    none
Type:
    unincorporated territory of the US administered by the Fish and Wildlife
    Service of the US Department of the Interior as part of the National
    Wildlife Refuge system
Capital:
    none; administered from Washington, DC

:Baker Island Economy

Overview:
    no economic activity

:Baker Island Communications

Ports:
    none; offshore anchorage only, one boat landing area along the middle of the
    west coast
Airports:
    1 abandoned World War II runway of 1,665 m
Telecommunications:
    there is a day beacon near the middle of the west coast

:Baker Island Defense Forces

Note:
    defense is the responsibility of the US; visited annually by the US Coast
    Guard

:Bangladesh Geography

Total area:
    144,000 km2
Land area:
    133,910 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than Wisconsin
Land boundaries:
    4,246 km total; Burma 193 km, India 4,053 km
Coastline:
    580 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    18 nm
  Continental shelf:
    up to outer limits of continental margin
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    a portion of the boundary with India is in dispute; water sharing problems
    with upstream riparian India over the Ganges
Climate:
    tropical; cool, dry winter (October to March); hot, humid summer (March to
    June); cool, rainy monsoon (June to October)
Terrain:
    mostly flat alluvial plain; hilly in southeast
Natural resources:
    natural gas, uranium, arable land, timber
Land use:
    arable land 67%; permanent crops 2%; meadows and pastures 4%; forest and
    woodland 16%; other 11%; includes irrigated 14%
Environment:
    vulnerable to droughts; much of country routinely flooded during summer
    monsoon season; overpopulation; deforestation
Note:
    almost completely surrounded by India

:Bangladesh People

Population:
    119,411,711 (July 1992), growth rate 2.4% (1992)
Birth rate:
    36 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    12 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    112 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    55 years male, 54 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    4.6 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Bangladeshi(s); adjective - Bangladesh
Ethnic divisions:
    Bengali 98%, Biharis 250,000, and tribals less than 1 million
Religions:
    Muslim 83%, Hindu 16%, Buddhist, Christian, and other less than 1%
Languages:
    Bangla (official), English widely used
Literacy:
    35% (male 47%, female 22%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    35,100,000; agriculture 74%, services 15%, industry and commerce 11% (FY86);
    extensive export of labor to Saudi Arabia, UAE, and Oman (1991)
Organized labor:
    3% of labor force belongs to 2,614 registered unions (1986 est.)

:Bangladesh Government

Long-form name:
    People's Republic of Bangladesh
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Dhaka
Administrative divisions:
    64 districts (zillagulo, singular - zilla); Bagerhat, Bandarban, Barguna,
    Barisal, Bhola, Bogra, Brahmanbaria, Chandpur, Chapai Nawabganj, Chattagram,
    Chuadanga, Comilla, Cox's Bazar, Dhaka, Dinajpur, Faridpur, Feni, Gaibandha,
    Gazipur, Gopalganj, Habiganj, Jaipurhat, Jamalpur, Jessore, Jhalakati,
    Jhenaidah, Khagrachari, Khulna, Kishorganj, Kurigram, Kushtia, Laksmipur,
    Lalmonirhat, Madaripur, Magura, Manikganj, Meherpur, Moulavibazar,
    Munshiganj, Mymensingh, Naogaon, Narail, Narayanganj, Narsingdi, Nator,
    Netrakona, Nilphamari, Noakhali, Pabna, Panchagar, Parbattya Chattagram,
    Patuakhali, Pirojpur, Rajbari, Rajshahi, Rangpur, Satkhira, Shariyatpur,
    Sherpur, Sirajganj, Sunamganj, Sylhet, Tangail, Thakurgaon
Independence:
    16 December 1971 (from Pakistan; formerly East Pakistan)
Constitution:
    4 November 1972, effective 16 December 1972, suspended following coup of 24
    March 1982, restored 10 November 1986, amended NA March 1991
Legal system:
    based on English common law
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 26 March (1971)
Executive branch:
    president, prime minister, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    unicameral National Parliament (Jatiya Sangsad)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Abdur Rahman BISWAS (since 8 October 1991)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Khaleda ZIAUR Rahman (since 20 March 1991)
Political parties and leaders:
    Bangladesh Nationalist Party (BNP), Khaleda ZIAUR Rahman; Awami League (AL),
    Sheikh Hasina WAZED; Jatiyo Party (JP), Hussain Mohammad ERSHAD;
    Jamaat-E-Islami (JI), Ali KHAN; Bangladesh Communist Party (BCP), Saifuddin
    Ahmed MANIK; National Awami Party (Muzaffar); Workers Party, leader NA;
    Jatiyo Samajtantik Dal (National Socialist Party - SIRAJ), M. A. JALIL;
    Ganotantri Party, leader NA; Islami Oikya Jote, leader NA; National
    Democratic Party (NDP), leader NA; Muslim League, Khan A. SABUR; Democratic
    League, Khondakar MUSHTAQUE Ahmed; United People's Party, Kazi ZAFAR Ahmed
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  National Parliament:
    last held 27 February 1991 (next to be held NA February 1996); results -
    percent of vote by party NA; seats - (330 total, 300 elected and 30 seats
    reserved for women) BNP 168, AL 93, JP 35, JI 20, CBP 5, National Awami
    Party (Muzaffar) 1, Workers Party 1, SIRAJ 1, Ganotantri Party 1, Islami
    Oikya Jote 1, NDP 1, independents 3
  President:
    last held 8 October 1991 (next to be held by NA October 1996); results -
    Abdur Rahman BISWAS received 52.1% of parliamentary vote

:Bangladesh Government

Communists:
    5,000 members (1987 est.)
Member of:
    AsDB, C, CCC, CP, ESCAP, FAO, G-77, GATT, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, IDA, IDB,
    IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, LORCS,
    NAM, OIC, SAARC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNIIMOG, UPU, WHO, WFTU, WIPO,
    WCL, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Abul AHSAN; Chancery at 2201 Wisconsin Avenue NW, Washington, DC
    20007; telephone (202) 342-8372 through 8376; there is a Bangladesh
    Consulate General in New York
  US:
    Ambassador William B. MILAM; Embassy at Diplomatic Enclave, Madani Avenue,
    Baridhara, Dhaka (mailing address is G. P. O. Box 323, Dhaka 1212);
    telephone [880] (2) 884700-22; FAX [880] (2) 883648
Flag:
    green with a large red disk slightly to the hoist side of center; green is
    the traditional color of Islam

:Bangladesh Economy

Overview:
    Bangladesh is one of the poorest nations in the world. The economy is based
    on the output of a narrow range of agricultural products, such as jute,
    which is the main cash crop and major source of export earnings, and rice.
    Bangladesh is hampered by a relative lack of natural resources, population
    growth of more than 2% a year, large-scale unemployment, and a limited
    infrastructure; furthermore, it is highly vulnerable to natural disasters.
    Despite these constraints, real GDP growth averaged about 3.5% annually
    during 1985-89. A strong agricultural performance in FY90 pushed the growth
    rate up to 6.2%, and FY91 saw further, though smaller, increases in output.
    Alleviation of poverty remains the cornerstone of the government's
    development strategy.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $23.1 billion, per capita $200; real growth rate
    3.2% (FY91)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    8.9% (FY91 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    30%, including underemployment (FY90 est.)
Budget:
    revenues $2.24 billion; expenditures $3.7 billion (FY91)
Exports:
    $1.7 billion (FY91 est.)
  commodities:
    garments, jute and jute goods, leather, shrimp
  partners:
    US 32%, Italy 8.1%, UK 6.2% (FY90)
Imports:
    $3.5 billion (FY91 est.)
  commodities:
    capital goods, petroleum, food, textiles
  partners:
    Japan 9.2%, India 6.2%, Singapore 5.9%, US 5.7%
External debt:
    $11.1 billion (FY91 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 1% (FY91 est.); accounts for 10% of GDP
Electricity:
    1,990,000 kW capacity; 5,700 million kWh produced, 50 kWh per capita (1990)
Industries:
    jute manufacturing, cotton textiles, food processing, steel, fertilizer
Agriculture:
    accounts for about 40% of GDP, 70% of employment, and one-third of exports;
    imports 10% of food grain requirements; world's largest exporter of jute;
    commercial products - jute, rice, wheat, tea, sugarcane, potatoes, beef,
    milk, poultry; shortages include wheat, vegetable oils and cotton; fish
    catch 778,000 metric tons in 1986
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $3.4 billion; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1980-89), $11.65 million; OPEC
    bilateral aid (1979-89), $6.52 million; Communist countries (1970-89), $1.5
    billion
Currency:
    taka (plural - taka); 1 taka (Tk) = 100 paise
Exchange rates:
    taka (Tk) per US$1 - 38.800 (January 1992), 36.596 (1991), 34.569 (1990),
    32.270 (1989), 31.733 (1988), 30.950 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    1 July - 30 June

:Bangladesh Communications

Railroads:
    2,892 km total (1986); 1,914 km 1.000 meter gauge, 978 km 1.676 meter broad
    gauge
Highways:
    7,240 km total (1985); 3,840 km paved, 3,400 km unpaved
Inland waterways:
    5,150-8,046 km navigable waterways (includes 2,575-3,058 km main cargo
    routes)
Pipelines:
    natural gas 1,220 km
Ports:
    Chittagong, Chalna
Merchant marine:
    44 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 328,382 GRT/479,985 DWT; includes 36
    cargo, 2 petroleum tanker, 3 refrigerated cargo, 3 bulk
Civil air:
    15 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    16 total, 12 usable; 12 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 4 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 6 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    adequate international radio communications and landline service; fair
    domestic wire and microwave service; fair broadcast service; 241,250
    telephones; broadcast stations - 9 AM, 6 FM, 11 TV; 2 Indian Ocean INTELSAT
    satellite earth stations

:Bangladesh Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Navy, Air Force; paramilitary forces - Bangladesh Rifles, Bangladesh
    Ansars, Armed Police Reserve, Coastal Police
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 29,891,224; 17,745,343 fit for military service
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $339 million, 1.5% of GDP (FY92 budget)

:Barbados Geography

Total area:
    430 km2
Land area:
    430 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly less than 2.5 times the size of Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    97 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    tropical; rainy season (June to October)
Terrain:
    relatively flat; rises gently to central highland region
Natural resources:
    crude oil, fishing, natural gas
Land use:
    arable land 77%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 9%; forest and
    woodland 0%; other 14%
Environment:
    subject to hurricanes (especially June to October)
Note:
    easternmost Caribbean island

:Barbados People

Population:
    254,934 (July 1992), growth rate 0.1% (1992)
Birth rate:
    16 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    9 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    --6 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    22 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    70 years male, 76 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    1.8 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Barbadian(s); adjective - Barbadian
Ethnic divisions:
    African 80%, mixed 16%, European 4%
Religions:
    Protestant 67% (Anglican 40%, Pentecostal 8%, Methodist 7%, other 12%),
    Roman Catholic 4%; none 17%, unknown 3%, other 9% (1980)
Languages:
    English
Literacy:
    99% (male 99%, female 99%) age 15 and over having ever attended school
    (1970)
Labor force:
    120,900 (1991); services and government 37%; commerce 22%; manufacturing and
    construction 22%; transportation, storage, communications, and financial
    institutions 9%; agriculture 8%; utilities 2% (1985 est.)
Organized labor:
    32% of labor force

:Barbados Government

Long-form name:
    none
Type:
    parliamentary democracy
Capital:
    Bridgetown
Administrative divisions:
    11 parishes; Christ Church, Saint Andrew, Saint George, Saint James, Saint
    John, Saint Joseph, Saint Lucy, Saint Michael, Saint Peter, Saint Philip,
    Saint Thomas; note - there may be a new city of Bridgetown
Independence:
    30 November 1966 (from UK)
Constitution:
    30 November 1966
Legal system:
    English common law; no judicial review of legislative acts
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 30 November (1966)
Executive branch:
    British monarch, governor general, prime minister, deputy prime minister,
    Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    bicameral Parliament consists of an upper house or Senate and a lower house
    or House of Assembly
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court of Judicature
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952), represented by Governor General
    Dame Nita BARROW (since 6 June 1990)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Lloyd Erskine SANDIFORD (since 2 June 1987)
Political parties and leaders:
    Democratic Labor Party (DLP), Erskine SANDIFORD; Barbados Labor Party (BLP),
    Henry FORDE; National Democratic Party (NDP), Richie HAYNES
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  House of Assembly:
    last held 22 January 1991 (next to be held by January 1996); results - DLP
    49.8%; seats - (28 total) DLP 18, BLP 10
Other political or pressure groups:
    Industrial and General Workers Union, Sir Frank WALCOTT; People's
    Progressive Movement, Eric SEALY; Workers' Party of Barbados, Dr. George
    BELLE
Member of:
    ACP, C, CARICOM, CDB, ECLAC, FAO, G-77, GATT, IADB, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, IFAD,
    IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, ISO (correspondent), ITU, LAES,
    LORCS, NAM, OAS, OPANAL, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Dr. Rudi WEBSTER; Chancery at 2144 Wyoming Avenue NW, Washington,
    DC 20008; telephone (202) 939-9200 through 9202; there is a Barbadian
    Consulate General in New York and a Consulate in Los Angeles
  US:
    Ambassador G. Philip HUGHES; Embassy at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce
    Building, Broad Street, Bridgetown (mailing address is P. O. Box 302, Box B,
    FPO AA 34054); telephone (809) 436-4950 through 4957; FAX (809) 429-5246

:Barbados Government

Flag:
    three equal vertical bands of blue (hoist side), yellow, and blue with the
    head of a black trident centered on the gold band; the trident head
    represents independence and a break with the past (the colonial coat of arms
    contained a complete trident)

:Barbados Economy

Overview:
    A per capita income of $6,500 gives Barbados one of the highest standards of
    living of all the small island states of the eastern Caribbean.
    Historically, the economy was based on the cultivation of sugarcane and
    related activities. In recent years, however, the economy has diversified
    into manufacturing and tourism. The tourist industry is now a major employer
    of the labor force and a primary source of foreign exchange. The economy
    slowed in 1990-91, however, and Bridgetown's declining hard currency
    reserves and inability to finance its deficits have caused it to adopt an
    austere economic reform program.
GDP:
    purchasing power equivalent - $1.7 billion, per capita $6,500; real growth
    rate--3.1% (1990)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    3.4% (1990)
Unemployment rate:
    18% (1991)
Budget:
    revenues $514 million; expenditures $615 million (FY91-92)
Exports:
    $210.6 million (f.o.b., 1990)
  commodities:
    sugar and molasses, chemicals, electrical components, clothing, rum,
    machinery and transport equipment
  partners:
    CARICOM 30%, US 20%, UK 20%
Imports:
    $704 million (c.i.f., 1990)
  commodities:
    foodstuffs, consumer durables, raw materials, machinery, crude oil,
    construction materials, chemicals
  partners:
    US 35%, CARICOM 13%, UK 12%, Japan 6%, Canada 8%, Venezuela 4%
External debt:
    $539.9 million (1990)
Industrial production:
    growth rate--2.7% (1990); accounts for 14% of GDP
Electricity:
    152,100 kW capacity; 539 million kWh produced, 2,117 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    tourism, sugar, light manufacturing, component assembly for export
Agriculture:
    accounts for 10% of GDP; major cash crop is sugarcane; other crops -
    vegetables and cotton; not self-sufficient in food
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $15 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $171 million
Currency:
    Barbadian dollars (plural - dollars); 1 Barbadian dollar (Bds$) = 100 cents
Exchange rates:
    Barbadian dollars (Bds$) per US$1 - 2.0113 (fixed rate)
Fiscal year:
    1 April - 31 March

:Barbados Communications

Highways:
    1,570 km total; 1,475 km paved, 95 km gravel and earth
Ports:
    Bridgetown
Merchant marine:
    2 cargo ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 3,200 GRT/7,338 DWT
Civil air:
    no major transport aircraft
Airports:
    1 with permanent-surface runways 2,440-3,659 m
Telecommunications:
    islandwide automatic telephone system with 89,000 telephones; tropospheric
    scatter link to Trinidad and Saint Lucia; broadcast stations - 3 AM, 2 FM, 2
    (1 is pay) TV; 1 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT earth station

:Barbados Defense Forces

Branches:
    Royal Barbados Defense Force, Coast Guard, Royal Barbados Police Force
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 69,678; 48,803 fit for military service, no conscription
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $10 million, 0.7% of GDP (1989)

:Bassas da India Geography

Total area:
    NA
Land area:
    undetermined
Comparative area:
    undetermined
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    35.2 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    12 nm
  Continental shelf:
    200 m (depth) or to depth of exploitation
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    claimed by Madagascar
Climate:
    tropical
Terrain:
    a volcanic rock 2.4 m high
Natural resources:
    none
Land use:
    arable land 0%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 0%; forest and
    woodland 0%; other (rock) 100%
Environment:
    surrounded by reefs; subject to periodic cyclones
Note:
    navigational hazard since it is usually under water during high tide;
    located in southern Mozambique Channel about halfway between Africa and
    Madagascar

:Bassas da India People

Population:
    uninhabited

:Bassas da India Government

Long-form name:
    none
Type:
    French possession administered by Commissioner of the Republic Jacques
    DEWATRE (since July 1991), resident in Reunion
Capital:
    none; administered by France from Reunion

:Bassas da India Economy

Overview:
    no economic activity

:Bassas da India Communications

Ports:
    none; offshore anchorage only

:Bassas da India Defense Forces

Note:
    defense is the responsibility of France

:Belarus Geography

Total area:
    207,600 km2
Land area:
    207,600 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than Kansas
Land boundaries:
    3,098 km total; Latvia 141 km, Lithuania 502 km, Poland 605 km, Russia 959
    km, Ukraine 891 km
Coastline:
    none - landlocked
Maritime claims:
    none - landlocked
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    mild and moist; transitional between continental and maritime
Terrain:
    generally flat and contains much marshland
Natural resources:
    forest land and peat deposits
Land use:
    arable land NA%; permanent crops NA%; meadows and pastures NA%; forest and
    woodland NA%; other NA%; includes irrigated NA%
Environment:
    southern part of Belarus
    highly contaminated with fallout from 1986 nuclear reactor accident at
    Chernobyl'
Note:
    landlocked

:Belarus People

Population:
    10,373,881 (July 1992), growth rate 0.5% (1992)
Birth rate:
    15 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    11 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    1 migrant/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    20 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    66 years male, 76 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    2.1 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Belarusian(s); adjective - Belarusian
Ethnic divisions:
    Byelorussian 77.9%, Russian 13.2%, Poles 4.1%, Ukrainian 2.9%, Jews 1.1%,
    other 0.8%
Religions:
    Russian Orthodox NA%, unknown NA%, none NA%, other NA%
Languages:
    Byelorussian NA%, Russian NA%, other NA%
Literacy:
    NA% (male NA%, female NA%) age 15 and over can read and write
Labor force:
    5,418,000; industry and construction 42%, agriculture and forestry 20%,
    other 38% (1990)
Organized labor:
    NA

:Belarus Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Belarus
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Mensk
Administrative divisions:
    6 oblasts (oblastey, singular - oblast'); Brest, Gomel', Grodno, Minsk,
    Mogilev, Vitebsk; note - all oblasts have the same name as their
    administrative center
Independence:
    1 January 1919 Belorussian Republic; 30 December 1922 joined with the USSR;
    25 August 1991 redeclared independence
Constitution:
    adopted April 1978
Legal system:
    based on civil law system
National holiday:
    24 August (1991)
Executive branch:
    NA
Legislative branch:
    unicameral with 360 seats
Judicial branch:
    NA
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Chairman of the Supreme Soviet Stanislav S. SHUSHKEVICH (since NA 1991)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Vyacheslav F. KEBICH (since NA April 1990), First Deputy
    Prime Minister Mikhail MYASNIKOVICH (since early 1991)
Political parties and leaders:
    Belarusian Popular Front, Zenon POZNYAK, chairman; United Democratic Party,
    Stanislav GUSAK, co-chairman; Social Democratic Gramada, Mikhail TKACHEV,
    chairman; Belarus Workers Union, Mikhail SOBOL, Chairman
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  President:
    NA
  Supreme Soviet:
    last held 4 March 1990 (next to be held NA); results - percent of vote by
    party NA; seats - (360 total) number of seats by party NA; note - 50 seats
    are for public bodies
Communists:
    NA
Other political or pressure groups:
    NA
Member of:
    CE, CIS, CSCE, ECE, IAEA, ILO, INMARSAT, IOC, ITU, NACC, PCA, UN, UNCTAD,
    UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Martynov; Chancery at NA NW, Washington, DC 200__; telephone NA
  US:
    Ambassador (vacant); David SWARTZ, Charge d'Affaires; Embassy at Hotel
    Belarus (telephone 8-011-7-0172-69-08-02) plus 7 hours; (mailing address is
    APO New York is 09862); telephone NA
Flag:
    white, red, and white

:Belarus Economy

Overview:
    In many ways Belarus resembles the three Baltic states, for example, in its
    industrial competence, its higher-than-average standard of living, and its
    critical dependence on the other former Soviet states for fuels and raw
    materials. Belarus ranks fourth in gross output among the former Soviet
    republics, producing 4% of the total GDP and employing 4% of the labor
    force. Once a mainly agricultural area, it now supplies important producer
    and consumer goods - sometimes as the sole producer - to the other states.
    The soil in Belarus is not as fertile as the black earth of Ukraine, but by
    emphasizing favorable crops and livestock (especially pigs and chickens),
    Belarus has become a net exporter to the other republics of meat, milk,
    eggs, flour, and potatoes. Belarus produces only small amounts of oil and
    gas and receives most of its fuel from Russia through the Druzhba oil
    pipeline and the Northern Lights gas pipeline. These pipelines transit
    Belarus enroute to Eastern Europe. Belarus produces petrochemicals,
    plastics, synthetic fibers (nearly 30% of former Soviet output), and
    fertilizer (20% of former Soviet output). Raw material resources are limited
    to potash and peat deposits. The peat (more than one-third of the total for
    the former Soviet Union) is used in domestic heating as boiler fuel for
    electric power stations and in the production of chemicals. The potash
    supports fertilizer production.
GDP:
    NA - $NA, per capita $NA; real growth rate --2% (1991)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    81% (1991)
Unemployment rate:
    NA%
Budget:
    revenues $NA million; expenditures $NA million, including capital
    expenditures of $NA million
Exports:
    $4.3 billion (f.o.b., 1990)
  commodities:
    machinery and transport equipment, chemicals, foodstuffs
  partners:
    NA
Imports:
    $5.6 billion (c.i.f., 1990)
  commodities:
    machinery, chemicals, textiles
  partners:
    NA
External debt:
    $2.6 billion (end of 1991)
Industrial production:
    growth rate --1.5% (1991)
Electricity:
    7,500,000 kW capacity; 38,700 million kWh produced, 3,770 kWh per capita
    (1991)

:Belarus Economy

Industries:
    employ about 27% of labor force and produce a wide variety of products
    essential to the other states; products include (in percent share of total
    output of former Soviet Union): tractors(12%); metal-cutting machine tools
    (11%); off-highway dump trucksup to 110-metric- ton load capacity (100%);
    wheel-type earthmovers for construction and mining (100%); eight-
    wheel-drive, high-flotation trucks with cargo capacity of 25 metric tons for
    use in tundra and roadless areas (100%); equipment for animal husbandry and
    livestock feeding (25%); motorcycles (21.3%); television sets (11%);
    chemical fibers (28%); fertilizer (18%); linen fabric (11%); wool fabric
    (7%); radios; refrigerators; and other consumer goods
Agriculture:
    accounts for 5.7% of total agricultural output of former Soviet Union;
    employs 29% of the labor force; in 1988 produced the following (in percent
    of total Soviet production): grain (3.6%), potatoes (12.2%), vegetables
    (3.0%), meat (6.0%), milk (7.0%); net exporter of meat, milk, eggs, flour,
    and potatoes
Illicit drugs:
    illicit producer of opium mostly for the domestic market; transshipment
    point for illicit drugs to Western Europe
Economic aid:
    NA
Currency:
    as of May 1992, retaining ruble as currency
Exchange rates:
    NA
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Belarus Communications

Railroads:
    5,570 km (includes NA km electrified); does not include industrial lines
    (1990)
Highways:
    98,200 km total (1990); 66,100 km hard surfaced, 32,100 km earth
Inland waterways:
    NA km
Pipelines:
    NA
Ports:
    none - landlocked
Merchant marine:
    none - landlocked
Civil air:
    NA major transport aircraft
Airports:
    NA
Telecommunications:
    telephone network has 1.7 million lines, 15% of which are switched
    automatically; Minsk has 450,000 lines; telephone density is approximately
    17 per 100 persons; as of 31 January 1990, 721,000 applications from
    households for telephones were still unsatisfied; international connections
    to other former Soviet republics are by landline or microwave and to other
    countries by leased connection through the Moscow international gateway
    switch

:Belarus Defense Forces

Branches:
    Republic Security Forces (internal and border troops); CIS Forces (Ground,
    Air, Air Defense, Strategic Rocket)
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, NA; NA fit for military service; NA reach military age (18)
    annually
Defense expenditures:
    $NA, NA% of GDP

:Belgium Geography

Total area:
    30,510 km2
Land area:
    30,230 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than Maryland
Land boundaries:
    1,385 km total; France 620 km, Germany 167 km, Luxembourg 148 km,
    Netherlands 450 km
Coastline:
    64 km
Maritime claims:
  Continental shelf:
    not specific
  Exclusive fishing zone:
    equidistant line with neighbors (extends about 68 km from coast)
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    temperate; mild winters, cool summers; rainy, humid, cloudy
Terrain:
    flat coastal plains in northwest, central rolling hills, rugged mountains of
    Ardennes Forest in southeast
Natural resources:
    coal, natural gas
Land use:
    arable land 24%; permanent crops 1%; meadows and pastures 20%; forest and
    woodland 21%; other 34%, includes irrigated NEGL%
Environment:
    air and water pollution
Note:
    majority of West European capitals within 1,000 km of Brussels; crossroads
    of Western Europe; Brussels is the seat of the EC

:Belgium People

Population:
    10,016,623 (July 1992), growth rate 0.3% (1992)
Birth rate:
    12 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    10 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    1 migrant/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    8 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    73 years male, 80 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    1.6 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Belgian(s); adjective - Belgian
Ethnic divisions:
    Fleming 55%, Walloon 33%, mixed or other 12%
Religions:
    Roman Catholic 75%, remainder Protestant or other
Languages:
    Flemish (Dutch) 56%, French 32%, German 1%; legally bilingual 11%; divided
    along ethnic lines
Literacy:
    99% (male 99%, female 99%) age 15 and over can read and write (1980 est.)
Labor force:
    4,126,000; services 63.6%, industry 28%, construction 6.1%, agriculture 2.3%
    (1988)
Organized labor:
    70% of labor force

:Belgium Government

Long-form name:
    Kingdom of Belgium
Type:
    constitutional monarchy
Capital:
    Brussels
Administrative divisions:
    9 provinces (French - provinces, singular - province; Flemish - provincien,
    singular - provincie); Antwerpen, Brabant, Hainaut, Liege, Limburg,
    Luxembourg, Namur, Oost-Vlaanderen, West-Vlaanderen
Independence:
    4 October 1830 (from the Netherlands)
Constitution:
    7 February 1831, last revised 8-9 August 1980; the government is in the
    process of revising the Constitution with the aim of federalizing the
    Belgian state
Legal system:
    civil law system influenced by English constitutional theory; judicial
    review of legislative acts; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with
    reservations
National holiday:
    National Day, 21 July (ascension of King Leopold to the throne in 1831)
Executive branch:
    monarch, prime minister, three deputy prime ministers, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    bicameral Parliament consists of an upper chamber or Senate (Flemish -
    Senaat, French - Senat) and a lower chamber or Chamber of Representatives
    (Flemish - Kamer van Volksvertegenwoordigers, French - Chambre des
    Representants)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court of Justice (Flemish - Hof van Cassatie, French - Cour de
    Cassation)
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    King BAUDOUIN I (since 17 July 1951); Heir Apparent Prince ALBERT of Liege
    (brother of the King; born 6 June 1934)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Jean-Luc DEHAENE (since 6 March 1992)
Political parties and leaders:
    Flemish Social Christian (CVP), Herman van ROMPUY, president; Walloon Social
    Christian (PSC) , Gerard DEPREZ, president; Flemish Socialist (SP), Frank
    VANDENBROUCKE, president; Walloon Socialist (PS), NA; Flemish Liberal (PVV),
    Guy VERHOF STADT, president; Walloon Liberal (PRL), Antoine DUQUESNE,
    president; Francophone Democratic Front (FDF), Georges CLERFAYT, president;
    Volksunie (VU), Jaak GABRIELS, president; Communist Party (PCB), Louis van
    GEYT, president; Vlaams Blok (VB), Karel DILLEN, chairman; ROSSEM, Jean
    Pierre VAN ROSSEM; National Front (FN), Werner van STEEN; Live Differently
    (AGALEV), Leo COX; Ecologist (ECOLO), NA; other minor parties
Suffrage:
    universal and compulsory at age 18
Elections:
  Chamber of Representatives:
    last held 24 November 1991 (next to be held by November 1996); results -
    percent of vote by party NA; seats - (212 total) number of seats by party NA
  Senate:
    last held 24 November 1991 (next to be held by November 1996); results -
    percent of vote by party NA; seats - (106 total) number of seats by party NA

:Belgium Government

Other political or pressure groups:
    Christian and Socialist Trade Unions; Federation of Belgian Industries;
    numerous other associations representing bankers, manufacturers,
    middle-class artisans, and the legal and medical professions; various
    organizations represent the cultural interests of Flanders and Wallonia;
    various peace groups such as the Flemish Action Committee Against Nuclear
    Weapons and Pax Christi
Member of:
    ACCT, AfDB, AG, AsDB, Benelux, BIS, CCC, CE, CERN, COCOM, CSCE, EBRD, EC,
    ECE, EIB, ESA, FAO, G-9, G-10, GATT, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU,
    IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INMARSAT, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, IOM,
    ISO, ITU, LORCS, MTCR, NACC, NATO, NEA, OAS (observer), OECD, PCA, UN,
    UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNMOGIP, UNRWA, UNTSO, UPU, WCL, WEU, WHO,
    WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Juan CASSIERS; Chancery at 3330 Garfield Street NW, Washington,
    DC 20008; telephone (202) 333-6900; there are Belgian Consulates General in
    Atlanta, Chicago, Los Angeles, and New York
  US:
    Ambassador Bruce S. GELB; Embassy at 27 Boulevard du Regent, B-1000 Brussels
    (mailing address is APO AE 09724); telephone [32] (2) 513-3830; FAX [32] (2)
    511-2725; there is a US Consulate General in Antwerp
Flag:
    three equal vertical bands of black (hoist side), yellow, and red; the
    design was based on the flag of France

:Belgium Economy

Overview:
    This small private enterprise economy has capitalized on its central
    geographic location, highly developed transport network, and diversified
    industrial and commercial base. Industry is concentrated mainly in the
    populous Flemish area in the north, although the government is encouraging
    reinvestment in the southern region of Walloon. With few natural resources
    Belgium must import essential raw materials, making its economy closely
    dependent on the state of world markets. Over 70% of trade is with other EC
    countries. During the period 1988-90, Belgium's economic performance was
    marked by 4% average growth, moderate inflation, and a substantial external
    surplus. Growth fell to 1.4% in 1991.
GDP:
    purchasing power equivalent - $171.8 billion, per capita $17,300; real
    growth rate 1.4% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    3.2% (1991 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    9.4% est. (1991 est.)
Budget:
    revenues $45.0 billion; expenditures $55.3 billion, including capital
    expenditures of NA (1989)
Exports:
    $118 billion (f.o.b., 1990) Belgium-Luxembourg Economic Union
  commodities:
    iron and steel, transportation equipment, tractors, diamonds, petroleum
    products
  partners:
    EC 74%, US 5%, former Communist countries 2% (1989)
Imports:
    $120 billion (c.i.f., 1990) Belgium-Luxembourg Economic Union
  commodities:
    fuels, grains, chemicals, foodstuffs
  partners:
    EC 73%, US 4%, oil-exporting less developed countries 4%, former Communist
    countries 3% (1989)
External debt:
    $28.8 billion (1990 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 1.2% (1991 est.); accounts for almost 30% of GDP
Electricity:
    17,400,000 kW capacity; 67,100 million kWh produced, 6,767 kWh per capita
    (1991)
Industries:
    engineering and metal products, processed food and beverages, chemicals,
    basic metals, textiles, glass, petroleum, coal
Agriculture:
    accounts for 2.3% of GDP; emphasis on livestock production - beef, veal,
    pork, milk; major crops are sugar beets, fresh vegetables, fruits, grain,
    and tobacco; net importer of farm products
Economic aid:
    donor - ODA and OOF commitments (1970-89), $5.8 billion
Currency:
    Belgian franc (plural - francs); 1 Belgian franc (BF) = 100 centimes
Exchange rates:
    Belgian francs (BF) per US$1 - 32.462 (January 1992), 34.148 (1991), 33.418
    (1990), 39.404 (1989), 36.768 (1988), 37.334 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Belgium Communications

Railroads:
    Belgian National Railways (SNCB) operates 3,667 km 1.435-meter standard
    gauge, government owned; 2,563 km double track; 1,978 km electrified; 191 km
    1.000-meter gauge, government owned and operated
Highways:
    103,396 km total; 1,317 km limited access, divided autoroute; 11,717 km
    national highway; 1,362 km provincial road; about 38,000 km paved and 51,000
    km unpaved rural roads
Inland waterways:
    2,043 km (1,528 km in regular commercial use)
Pipelines:
    petroleum products 1,167 km; crude oil 161 km; natural gas 3,300 km
Ports:
    Antwerp, Brugge, Gent, Oostende, Zeebrugge
Merchant marine:
    23 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 62,979 GRT/88,738 DWT; includes 10
    cargo, 4 petroleum tanker, 1 liquefied gas, 5 chemical tanker, 1 bulk, 2
    refrigerated cargo
Civil air:
    47 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    42 total, 42 usable; 24 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 14 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 3 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    highly developed, technologically advanced, and completely automated
    domestic and international telephone and telegraph facilities; extensive
    cable network; limited radio relay network; 4,720,000 telephones; broadcast
    stations - 3 AM, 39 FM, 32 TV; 5 submarine cables; 2 satellite earth
    stations - Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT and EUTELSAT systems; nationwide mobile
    phone system

:Belgium Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Navy, Air Force, National Gendarmerie
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 2,550,088; 2,133,483 fit for military service; 66,249 reach
    military age (19) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $4.2 billion, 2.7% of GDP (1991)

:Belize Geography

Total area:
    22,960 km2
Land area:
    22,800 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than Massachusetts
Land boundaries:
    516 km total; Guatemala 266 km, Mexico 250 km
Coastline:
    386 km
Maritime claims:
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm in the north and 3 nm in the south; note - from the mouth of the
    Sarstoon River to Ranguana Caye, Belize's territorial sea is 3 miles;
    according to Belize's Maritime Areas Act, 1992, the purpose of this
    limitation is to provide a framework for the negotiation of a definitive
    agreement on territorial differences with the Republic of Guatemala''
Disputes:
    claimed by Guatemala, but boundary negotiations to resolve the dispute have
    begun
Climate:
    tropical; very hot and humid; rainy season (May to February)
Terrain:
    flat, swampy coastal plain; low mountains in south
Natural resources:
    arable land potential, timber, fish
Land use:
    arable land 2%; permanent crops NEGL%; meadows and pastures 2%; forest and
    woodland 44%; other 52%, includes irrigated NEGL%
Environment:
    frequent devastating hurricanes (September to December) and coastal flooding
    (especially in south); deforestation
Note:
    national capital moved 80 km inland from Belize City to Belmopan because of
    hurricanes; only country in Central America without a coastline on the North
    Pacific Ocean

:Belize People

Population:
    229,143 (July 1992), growth rate 3.0% (1992)
Birth rate:
    31 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    5 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    4 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    30 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    67 years male, 73 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    3.8 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Belizean(s); adjective - Belizean
Ethnic divisions:
    Creole 39.7%, Mestizo 33.1%, Maya 9.5%, Garifuna 7.6%, East Indian 2.1%,
    other 8.0%
Religions:
    Roman Catholic 62%, Protestant 30% (Anglican 12%, Methodist 6%, Mennonite
    4%, Seventh-Day Adventist 3%, Pentecostal 2%, Jehovah's Witnesses 1%, other
    2%), none 2%, unknown 3%, other 3% (1980)
Languages:
    English (official), Spanish, Maya, Garifuna (Carib)
Literacy:
    91% (male 91%, female 91%) age 15 and over having ever attended school
    (1970)
Labor force:
    51,500; agriculture 30.0%, services 16.0%, government 15.4%, commerce 11.2%,
    manufacturing 10.3%; shortage of skilled labor and all types of technical
    personnel (1985)
Organized labor:
    12% of labor force; 7 unions currently active

:Belize Government

Long-form name:
    none
Type:
    parliamentary democracy
Capital:
    Belmopan
Administrative divisions:
    6 districts; Belize, Cayo, Corozal, Orange Walk, Stann Creek, Toledo
Independence:
    21 September 1981 (from UK; formerly British Honduras)
Constitution:
    21 September 1981
Legal system:
    English law
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 21 September
Executive branch:
    British monarch, governor general, prime minister, deputy prime minister,
    Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    bicameral National Assembly consists of an upper house or Senate and a lower
    house or House of Representatives
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952), represented by Governor General
    Dame Elmira Minita GORDON (since 21 September 1981)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister George Cadle PRICE (since 4 September 1989)
Political parties and leaders:
    People's United Party (PUP), George PRICE, Florencio MARIN, Said MUSA;
    United Democratic Party (UDP), Manuel ESQUIVEL, Dean LINDO, Dean BARROW;
    Belize Popular Party (BPP), Louis SYLVESTRE
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  National Assembly:
    last held 4 September 1989 (next to be held September 1994); results -
    percent of vote by party NA; seats - (28 total) PUP 15, UDP 13; note - in
    January 1990 one member expelled from UDP joined PUP, making the seat count
    PUP 16, UDP 12
Other political or pressure groups:
    Society for the Promotion of Education and Research (SPEAR) headed by former
    PUP minister; United Workers Front
Member of:
    ACP, C, CARICOM, CDB, ECLAC, FAO, G-77, GATT, IBRD, ICO, IDA, IFAD, IFC,
    ILO, IMF, IMO, INTERPOL, IOC, IOM (observer), ITU, LORCS, NAM, OAS, UN,
    UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WMO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador James V. HYDE; Chancery at 2535 Massachusetts Avenue NW,
    Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 332-9636
  US:
    Ambassador Eugene L. SCASSA; Embassy at Gabourel Lane and Hutson Street,
    Belize City (mailing address is P. O. Box 286, Belize City); telephone [501]
    (2) 77161; FAX [501] (2) 30802
Flag:
    on a scroll at the bottom, all encircled by a green garland

:Belize Government

    blue with a narrow red stripe along the top and the bottom edges; centered
    is a large white disk bearing the coat of arms; the coat of arms features a
    shield flanked by two workers in front of a mahogany tree with the related
    motto RA FLOREO (I Flourish in the Shade)

:Belize Economy

Overview:
    The economy is based primarily on agriculture, agro-based industry, and
    merchandising, with tourism and construction assuming increasing importance.
    Agriculture accounts for about 30% of GDP and provides 75% of export
    earnings, while sugar, the chief crop, accounts for almost 40% of hard
    currency earnings. The US, Belize's main trading partner, is assisting in
    efforts to reduce dependency on sugar with an agricultural diversification
    program.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $373 million, per capita $1,635; real growth rate
    10% (1990 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    3.5% (1990 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    12% (1988)
Budget:
    revenues $126.8 million; expenditures $123.1 million, including capital
    expenditures of $44.8 million (FY91 est.)
Exports:
    $134 million (f.o.b., 1991 est.)
  commodities:
    sugar, clothing, seafood, molasses, citrus, wood and wood products
  partners:
    US 47%, UK, Trinidad and Tobago, Canada (1987)
Imports:
    $194 million (c.i.f., 1991 est.)
  commodities:
    machinery and transportation equipment, food, manufactured goods, fuels,
    chemicals, pharmaceuticals
  partners:
    US 56%, UK, Netherlands Antilles, Mexico (1991)
External debt:
    $142 million (December 1991)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 9.7% (1989); accounts for 16% of GDP
Electricity:
    34,532 kW capacity; 90 million kWh produced, 395 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    garment production, citrus concentrates, sugar refining, rum, beverages,
    tourism
Agriculture:
    accounts for 30% of GDP (including fish and forestry); commercial crops
    include sugarcane, bananas, coca, citrus fruits; expanding output of lumber
    and cultured shrimp; net importer of basic foods
Illicit drugs:
    an illicit producer of cannabis for the international drug trade;
    eradication program cut marijuana production from 200 metric tons in 1987 to
    about 50 metric tons in 1991; transshipment point for cocaine
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $104 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $215 million
Currency:
    Belizean dollar (plural - dollars); 1 Belizean dollar (Bz$) = 100 cents
Exchange rates:
    Belizean dollars (Bz$) per US$1 - 2.00 (fixed rate)
Fiscal year:
    1 April - 31 March

:Belize Communications

Highways:
    2,710 km total; 500 km paved, 1,600 km gravel, 300 km improved earth, and
    310 km unimproved earth
Inland waterways:
    825 km river network used by shallow-draft craft; seasonally navigable
Ports:
    Belize City; additional ports for shallow draught craft include Corozol,
    Punta Gorda, Big Creek
Merchant marine:
    2 cargo ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 3,127 GRT/5,885 DWT
Civil air:
    2 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    44 total, 34 usable; 3 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 2,439 m; 2 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    8,650 telephones; above-average system based on radio relay; broadcast
    stations - 6 AM, 5 FM, 1 TV, 1 shortwave; 1 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT earth
    station

:Belize Defense Forces

Branches:
    British Forces Belize, Belize Defense Force (including Army, Navy, Air
    Force, and Volunteer Guard)
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 55,333; 33,040 fit for military service; 2,509 reach military
    age (18) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $4.8 million, 1.8% of GDP (FY91)

:Benin Geography

Total area:
    112,620 km2
Land area:
    110,620 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than Pennsylvania
Land boundaries:
    1,989 km total; Burkina 306 km, Niger 266 km, Nigeria 773 km, Togo 644 km
Coastline:
    121 km
Maritime claims:
  Territorial sea:
    200 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    tropical; hot, humid in south; semiarid in north
Terrain:
    mostly flat to undulating plain; some hills and low mountains
Natural resources:
    small offshore oil deposits, limestone, marble, timber
Land use:
    arable land 12%; permanent crops 4%; meadows and pastures 4%; forest and
    woodland 35%; other 45%, includes irrigated NEGL%
Environment:
    hot, dry, dusty harmattan wind may affect north in winter; deforestation;
    desertification
Note:
    recent droughts have severely affected marginal agriculture in north; no
    natural harbors

:Benin People

Population:
    4,997,599 (July 1992), growth rate 3.3% (1992)
Birth rate:
    49 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    15 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    115 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    49 years male, 53 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    6.9 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Beninese (singular and plural); adjective - Beninese
Ethnic divisions:
    African 99% (42 ethnic groups, most important being Fon, Adja, Yoruba,
    Bariba); Europeans 5,500
Religions:
    indigenous beliefs 70%, Muslim 15%, Christian 15%
Languages:
    French (official); Fon and Yoruba most common vernaculars in south; at least
    six major tribal languages in north
Literacy:
    23% (male 32%, female 16%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    1,900,000 (1987); agriculture 60%, transport, commerce, and public services
    38%, industry less than 2%; 49% of population of working age (1985)
Organized labor:
    about 75% of wage earners

:Benin Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Benin
Type:
    republic under multiparty democratic rule; dropped Marxism-Leninism December
    1989; democratic reforms adopted February 1990; transition to multiparty
    system completed 4 April 1991
Capital:
    Porto-Novo
Administrative divisions:
    6 provinces; Atakora, Atlantique, Borgou, Mono, Oueme, Zou
Independence:
    1 August 1960 (from France; formerly Dahomey)
Constitution:
    2 December 1990
Legal system:
    based on French civil law and customary law; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
    jurisdiction
National holiday:
    National Day, 1 August (1990)
Executive branch:
    president, cabinet
Legislative branch:
    unicameral National Assembly (Assemblee Nationale)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court (Cour Supreme)
Leaders:
  Chief of State and Head of Government:
    President Nicephore SOGLO (since 4 April 1991)
Political parties and leaders:
    Alliance of the Democratic Union for the Forces of Progress (UDFP), Timothee
    ADANLIN; Movement for Democracy and Social Progress (MDPS), Jean-Roger
    AHOYO; and the Union for Liberty and Development (ULD), Marcellin DEGBE;
    Alliance of the National Party for Democracy and Development (PNDD) and the
    Democratic Renewal Party (PRD), Pascal Chabi KAO; Alliance of the Social
    Democratic Party (PSD) and the National Union for Solidarity and Progress
    (UNSP), Bruno AMOUSSOU; Our Common Cause (NCC), Albert TEVOEDJRE; National
    Rally for Democracy (RND), Joseph KEKE; Alliance of the National Movement
    for Democracy and Development (MNDD), Bertin BORNA; Movement for Solidarity,
    Union, and Progress (MSUP), Adebo ADENIYI; and Union for Democracy and
    National Reconstruction (UDRN), Azaria FAKOREDE; Union for Democracy and
    National Solidarity (UDS), Mama Amadou N'DIAYE; Assembly of Liberal
    Democrats for National Reconstruction (RDL), Severin ADJOVI; Alliance of the
    Alliance for Social Democracy (ASD), Robert DOSSOU, and Bloc for Social
    Democracy (BSD), Michel MAGNIDE; Alliance of the Alliance for Democracy and
    Progress (ADP), Akindes ADEKPEDJOU, and Democratic Union for Social Renewal
    (UDRS), Bio Gado Seko N'GOYE; National Union for Democracy and Progress
    (UNDP), Robert TAGNON; numerous other small parties
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  National Assembly:
    last held 10 and 24 March 1991; results - percent of vote by party NA; seats
    - (64 total) UDFP-MDPS-ULD 12, PNDD/PRD 9, PSD/UNSP 8, NCC 7, RND 7,
    MNDD/MSUP/UDRN 6, UDS 5, RDL 4, ASD/BSD 3, ADP/UDRS 2, UNDP 1
  President:
    last held 10 and 24 March 1991; results - Nicephore SOGLO 68%, Mathieu
    KEREKOU 32%
Communists:
    Communist Party of Dahomey (PCD) remains active

:Benin Government

Member of:
    ACCT, ACP, AfDB, CEAO, ECA, ECOWAS, Entente, FAO, FZ, G-77, GATT, IBRD,
    ICAO, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, ITU,
    LORCS, NAM, OAU, OIC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WADB, WCL, WHO, WIPO,
    WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Candide AHOUANSOU; Chancery at 2737 Cathedral Avenue NW,
    Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 232-6656
  US:
    Ambassador Harriet W. ISOM; Embassy at Rue Caporal Anani Bernard, Cotonou
    (mailing address is B. P. 2012, Cotonou); telephone [229] 30-06-50,
    30-05-13, 30-17-92; FAX [229] 30-14-39 and 30-19-74
Flag:
    two equal horizontal bands of yellow (top) and red with a vertical green
    band on the hoist side

:Benin Economy

Overview:
    Benin is one of the least developed countries in the world because of
    limited natural resources and a poorly developed infrastructure. Agriculture
    accounts for about 35% of GDP, employs about 60% of the labor force, and
    generates a major share of foreign exchange earnings. The industrial sector
    contributes only about 15% to GDP and employs 2% of the work force. Low
    prices in recent years have kept down hard currency earnings from Benin's
    major exports of agricultural products and crude oil.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $2.0 billion, per capita $410; real growth rate
    3% (1991)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    3.0% (1990)
Unemployment rate:
    NA%
Budget:
    revenues $194 million; expenditures $390 million, including capital
    expenditures of $104 million (1990 est.)
Exports:
    $263.3 million (f.o.b., 1990 est.)
  commodities:
    crude oil, cotton, palm products, cocoa
  partners:
    FRG 36%, France 16%, Spain 14%, Italy 8%, UK 4%
Imports:
    $428 million (f.o.b., 1990 est.)
  commodities:
    foodstuffs, beverages, tobacco, petroleum products, intermediate goods,
    capital goods, light consumer goods
  partners:
    France 34%, Netherlands 10%, Japan 7%, Italy 6%, US 4%
External debt:
    $1.0 billion (December 1990 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate --0.7% (1988); accounts for 15% of GDP
Electricity:
    30,000 kW capacity; 25 million kWh produced, 5 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    textiles, cigarettes, construction materials, beverages, food production,
    petroleum
Agriculture:
    small farms produce 90% of agricultural output; production is dominated by
    food crops - corn, sorghum, cassava, beans, and rice; cash crops include
    cotton, palm oil, and peanuts; poultry and livestock output has not kept up
    with consumption
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $46 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $1,300 million; OPEC
    bilateral aid (1979-89), $19 million; Communist countries (1970-89), $101
    million
Currency:
    Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (plural - francs); 1 CFA franc (CFAF)
    = 100 centimes
Exchange rates:
    Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (CFAF) per US$1 - 269.01 (January
    1992), 282.11 (1991), 272.26 (1990), 319.01 (1989), 297.85 (1988), 300.54
    (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Benin Communications

Railroads:
    578 km, all 1.000-meter gauge, single track
Highways:
    5,050 km total; 920 km paved, 2,600 laterite, 1,530 km improved earth
Inland waterways:
    navigable along small sections, important only locally
Ports:
    Cotonou
Civil air:
    no major transport aircraft
Airports:
    6 total, 5 usable; 1 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways over
    2,439 m; 4 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    fair system of open wire, submarine cable, and radio relay; broadcast
    stations - 2 AM, 2 FM, 2 TV; 1 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT earth station

:Benin Defense Forces

Branches:
    Armed Forces (including Army, Navy, Air Force), National Gendarmerie
Manpower availability:
    eligible 15-49, 2,165,515; of the 1,031,738 males 15-49, 528,366 are fit for
    military service; of the 1,133,777 females 15-49, 572,603 are fit for
    military service; about 55,697 males and 53,786 females reach military age
    (18) annually; both sexes are liable for military service
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $29 million, 1.7% of GDP (1988 est.)

:Bermuda Geography

Total area:
    50 km2
Land area:
    50 km2
Comparative area:
    about 0.3 times the size of Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    103 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive fishing zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Climate:
    subtropical; mild, humid; gales, strong winds common in winter
Terrain:
    low hills separated by fertile depressions
Natural resources:
    limestone, pleasant climate fostering tourism
Land use:
    arable land 0%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 0%; forest and
    woodland 20%; other 80%
Environment:
    ample rainfall, but no rivers or freshwater lakes; consists of about 360
    small coral islands
Note:
    1,050 km east of North Carolina; some reclaimed land leased by US Government

:Bermuda People

Population:
    60,213 (July 1992), growth rate 0.8% (1992)
Birth rate:
    15 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    7 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    NEGL migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    13 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    73 years male, 77 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    1.8 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Bermudian(s); adjective - Bermudian
Ethnic divisions:
    black 61%, white and other 39%
Religions:
    Anglican 37%, Roman Catholic 14%, African Methodist Episcopal (Zion) 10%,
    Methodist 6%, Seventh-Day Adventist 5%, other 28%
Languages:
    English
Literacy:
    98% (male 98%, female 99%) age 15 and over can read and write (1970)
Labor force:
    32,000; clerical 25%, services 22%, laborers 21%, professional and technical
    13%, administrative and managerial 10%, sales 7%, agriculture and fishing 2%
    (1984)
Organized labor:
    8,573 members (1985); largest union is Bermuda Industrial Union

:Bermuda Government

Long-form name:
    none
Type:
    dependent territory of the UK
Capital:
    Hamilton
Administrative divisions:
    9 parishes and 2 municipalities*; Devonshire, Hamilton, Hamilton*, Paget,
    Pembroke, Saint George*, Saint George's, Sandys, Smiths, Southampton,
    Warwick
Independence:
    none (dependent territory of the UK)
Constitution:
    8 June 1968
Legal system:
    English law
National holiday:
    Bermuda Day, 22 May
Executive branch:
    British monarch, governor, deputy governor, premier, deputy premier,
    Executive Council (cabinet)
Legislative branch:
    bicameral Parliament consists of an upper house or Senate and a lower house
    or House of Assembly
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952), represented by Governor Lord
    David WADDINGTON
  Head of Government:
    Premier John William David SWAN (since January 1982)
Political parties and leaders:
    United Bermuda Party (UBP), John W. D. SWAN; Progressive Labor Party (PLP),
    Frederick WADE; National Liberal Party (NLP), Gilbert DARRELL
Suffrage:
    universal at age 21
Elections:
  House of Assembly:
    last held 9 February 1989 (next to be held by February 1994); results -
    percent of vote by party NA; seats - (40 total) UBP 23, PLP 15, NLP 1, other
    1
Other political or pressure groups:
    Bermuda Industrial Union (BIU), headed by Ottiwell SIMMONS
Member of:
    CARICOM (observer), CCC, ICFTU, IOC
Diplomatic representation:
    as a dependent territory of the UK, Bermuda's interests in the US are
    represented by the UK
  US:
    Consul General L. Ebersole GAINES; Consulate General at Crown Hill, 16
    Middle Road, Devonshire, Hamilton (mailing address is P. O. Box HM325,
    Hamilton HMBX; PSC 1002, FPO AE 09727-1002); telephone (809) 295-1342; FAX
    (809) 295-1592
Flag:
    red with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side quadrant and the
    Bermudian coat of arms (white and blue shield with a red lion holding a
    scrolled shield showing the sinking of the ship Sea Venture off Bermuda in
    1609) centered on the outer half of the flag

:Bermuda Economy

Overview:
    Bermuda enjoys one of the highest per capita incomes in the world, having
    successfully exploited its location by providing luxury tourist facilities
    and financial services. The tourist industry attracts more than 90% of its
    business from North America. The industrial sector is small, and agriculture
    is severely limited by a lack of suitable land. About 80% of food needs are
    imported.
GDP:
    purchasing power equivalent - $1.3 billion, per capita $22,400; real growth
    rate 2.0% (1989 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    5.8% (June 1989, annual rate)
Unemployment rate:
    2.0% (1988)
Budget:
    revenues $361.6 million; expenditures $396.1 million, including capital
    expenditures of $74.1 million (FY91 est.)
Exports:
    $30 million (f.o.b., FY88)
  commodities:
    semitropical produce, light manufactures
  partners:
    US 25%, Italy 25%, UK 14%, Canada 5%, other 31%
Imports:
    $420 million (c.i.f., FY88)
  commodities:
    fuel, foodstuffs, machinery
  partners:
    US 58%, Netherlands Antilles 9%, UK 8%, Canada 6%, Japan 5%, other 14%
External debt:
    NA
Industrial production:
    growth rate NA%
Electricity:
    154,000 kW capacity; 504 million kWh produced, 8,625 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    tourism, finance, structural concrete products, paints, pharmaceuticals,
    ship repairing
Agriculture:
    accounts for less than 1% of GDP; most basic foods must be imported;
    produces bananas, vegetables, citrus fruits, flowers, dairy products
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-81), $34 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $277 million
Currency:
    Bermudian dollar (plural - dollars); 1 Bermudian dollar (Bd$) = 100 cents
Exchange rates:
    Bermudian dollar (Bd$) per US$1 - 1.0000 (fixed rate)
Fiscal year:
    1 April - 31 March

:Bermuda Communications

Highways:
    210 km public roads, all paved (about 400 km of private roads)
Ports:
    Freeport, Hamilton, Saint George
Merchant marine:
    73 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 3,511,972 GRT/6,093,321 DWT; includes
    4 cargo, 5 refrigerated cargo, 4 container, 7 roll-on/roll-off, 23 petroleum
    tanker, 12 liquefied gas, 18 bulk; note - a flag of convenience registry
Civil air:
    16 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    1 with permanent-surface runways 2,440-3,659 m
Telecommunications:
    modern with fully automatic telephone system; 52,670 telephones; broadcast
    stations - 5 AM, 3 FM, 2 TV; 3 submarine cables; 2 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT
    earth stations

:Bermuda Defense Forces

Branches:
    Bermuda Regiment, Bermuda Police Force, Bermuda Reserve Constabulary
Note:
    defense is the responsibility of the UK

:Bhutan Geography

Total area:
    47,000 km2
Land area:
    47,000 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly more than half the size of Indiana
Land boundaries:
    1,075 km; China 470 km, India 605 km
Coastline:
    none - landlocked
Maritime claims:
    none - landlocked
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    varies; tropical in southern plains; cool winters and hot summers in central
    valleys; severe winters and cool summers in Himalayas
Terrain:
    mostly mountainous with some fertile valleys and savanna
Natural resources:
    timber, hydropower, gypsum, calcium carbide, tourism potential
Land use:
    arable land 2%; permanent crops NEGL%; meadows and pastures 5%; forest and
    woodland 70%; other 23%
Environment:
    violent storms coming down from the Himalayas were the source of the country
    name which translates as Land of the Thunder Dragon
Note:
    landlocked; strategic location between China and India; controls several key
    Himalayan mountain passes

:Bhutan People

Population:
    1,660,167 (July 1992), growth rate 2.3% (1992)
Birth rate:
    40 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    17 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    126 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    50 years male, 49 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    5.5 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Bhutanese (singular and plural); adjective - Bhutanese
Ethnic divisions:
    Bhote 60%, ethnic Nepalese 25%, indigenous or migrant tribes 15%
Religions:
    Lamaistic Buddhism 75%, Indian- and Nepalese-influenced Hinduism 25%
Languages:
    Bhotes speak various Tibetan dialects - most widely spoken dialect is
    Dzongkha (official); Nepalese speak various Nepalese dialects
Literacy:
    NA% (male NA%, female NA%)
Labor force:
    NA; agriculture 93%, services 5%, industry and commerce 2%; massive lack of
    skilled labor
Organized labor:
    not permitted

:Bhutan Government

Long-form name:
    Kingdom of Bhutan
Type:
    monarchy; special treaty relationship with India
Capital:
    Thimphu
Administrative divisions:
    18 districts (dzongkhag, singular and plural); Bumthang, Chhukha, Chirang,
    Daga, Geylegphug, Ha, Lhuntshi, Mongar, Paro, Pemagatsel, Punakha, Samchi,
    Samdrup Jongkhar, Shemgang, Tashigang, Thimphu, Tongsa, Wangdi Phodrang
Independence:
    8 August 1949 (from India)
Constitution:
    no written constitution or bill of rights
Legal system:
    based on Indian law and English common law; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
    jurisdiction
National holiday:
    National Day (Ugyen Wangchuck became first hereditary king), 17 December
    (1907)
Executive branch:
    monarch, chairman of the Royal Advisory Council, Royal Advisory Council
    (Lodoi Tsokde), chairman of the Council of Ministers, Council of Ministers
    (Lhengye Shungtsog)
Legislative branch:
    unicameral National Assembly (Tshogdu)
Judicial branch:
    High Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State and Head of Government:
    King Jigme Singye WANGCHUCK (since 24 July 1972)
Political parties and leaders:
    no legal parties
Suffrage:
    each family has one vote in village-level elections
Elections:
    no national elections
Communists:
    no overt Communist presence
Other political or pressure groups:
    Buddhist clergy, Indian merchant community; ethnic Nepalese organizations
    leading militant antigovernment campaign
Member of:
    AsDB, CP, ESCAP, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, IDA, IFAD, IMF, IOC, ITU, NAM,
    SAARC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WHO
Diplomatic representation:
    no formal diplomatic relations, although informal contact is maintained
    between the Bhutanese and US Embassies in New Delhi (India); the Bhutanese
    mission to the UN in New York has consular jurisdiction in the US
Flag:
    divided diagonally from the lower hoist side corner; the upper triangle is
    orange and the lower triangle is red; centered along the dividing line is a
    large black and white dragon facing away from the hoist side

:Bhutan Economy

Overview:
    The economy, one of the world's least developed, is based on agriculture and
    forestry, which provide the main livelihood for 90% of the population and
    account for about 50% of GDP. Rugged mountains dominate the terrain and make
    the building of roads and other infrastructure difficult and expensive. The
    economy is closely aligned with that of India through strong trade and
    monetary links. Low wages in industry lead most Bhutanese to stay in
    agriculture. Most development projects, such as road construction, rely on
    Indian migrant labor. Bhutan's hydropower potential and its attraction for
    tourists are its most important natural resources.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $320 million, per capita $200; real growth rate
    3.1% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    12% (FY90)
Unemployment rate:
    NA
Budget:
    revenues $112 million; expenditures $121 million, including capital
    expenditures of $58 million (FY91 est.)
Exports:
    $74 million (f.o.b., FY91)
  commodities:
    cardamon, gypsum, timber, handicrafts, cement, fruit
  partners:
    India 93%
Imports:
    $106.4 million (c.i.f., FY91 est.)
  commodities:
    fuel and lubricants, grain, machinery and parts, vehicles, fabrics
  partners:
    India 67%
External debt:
    $80 million (FY91 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate NA; accounts for 18% of GDP
Electricity:
    353,000 kW capacity; 2,000 million kWh produced, 1,280 kWh per capita (1990)
Industries:
    cement, wood products, processed fruits, alcoholic beverages, calcium
    carbide
Agriculture:
    accounts for 50% of GDP; based on subsistence farming and animal husbandry;
    self-sufficient in food except for foodgrains; other production - rice,
    corn, root crops, citrus fruit, dairy, and eggs
Economic aid:
    Western (non-US) countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89),
    $115 million; OPEC bilateral aid (1979-89), $11 million
Currency:
    ngultrum (plural - ngultrum); 1 ngultrum (Nu) = 100 chetrum; note - Indian
    currency is also legal tender
Exchange rates:
    ngultrum (Nu) per US$1 - 25.927 (January 1992), 22.742 (1991), 17.504
    (1990), 16.226 (1989), 13.917 (1988), 12.962 (1987); note - the Bhutanese
    ngultrum is at par with the Indian rupee
Fiscal year:
    1 July - 30 June

:Bhutan Communications

Highways:
    1,304 km total; 418 km surfaced, 515 km improved, 371 km unimproved earth
Civil air:
    1 jet, 2 prop
Airports:
    2 total, 2 usable; 1 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways over
    2,439 m; 2 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    inadequate; 1,990 telephones (1988); 22,000 radios (1990 est.); 85 TVs
    (1985); broadcast stations - 1 AM, 1 FM, no TV (1990)

:Bhutan Defense Forces

Branches:
    Royal Bhutan Army, Palace Guard, Militia
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 406,360; 217,348 fit for military service; 17,316 reach
    military age (18) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $NA, NA% of GDP

:Bolivia Geography

Total area:
    1,098,580 km2
Land area:
    1,084,390 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly less than three times the size of Montana
Land boundaries:
    6,743 km; Argentina 832 km, Brazil 3,400 km, Chile 861 km, Paraguay 750 km,
    Peru 900 km
Coastline:
    none - landlocked
Maritime claims:
    none - landlocked
Disputes:
    has wanted a sovereign corridor to the South Pacific Ocean since the Atacama
    area was lost to Chile in 1884; dispute with Chile over Rio Lauca water
    rights
Climate:
    varies with altitude; humid and tropical to cold and semiarid
Terrain:
    rugged Andes Mountains with a highland plateau (Altiplano), hills, lowland
    plains of the Amazon basin
Natural resources:
    tin, natural gas, crude oil, zinc, tungsten, antimony, silver, iron ore,
    lead, gold, timber
Land use:
    arable land 3%; permanent crops NEGL%; meadows and pastures 25%; forest and
    woodland 52%; other 20%; includes irrigated NEGL%
Environment:
    cold, thin air of high plateau is obstacle to efficient fuel combustion;
    overgrazing; soil erosion; desertification
Note:
    landlocked; shares control of Lago Titicaca, world's highest navigable lake,
    with Peru

:Bolivia People

Population:
    7,323,048 (July 1992), growth rate 2.3% (1992)
Birth rate:
    33 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    9 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    --1 migrant/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    82 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    59 years male, 64 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    4.5 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Bolivian(s); adjective - Bolivian
Ethnic divisions:
    Quechua 30%, Aymara 25%, mixed 25-30%, European 5-15%
Religions:
    Roman Catholic 95%; active Protestant minority, especially Evangelical
    Methodist
Languages:
    Spanish, Quechua, and Aymara (all official)
Literacy:
    78% (male 85%, female 71%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    1,700,000; agriculture 50%, services and utilities 26%, manufacturing 10%,
    mining 4%, other 10% (1983)
Organized labor:
    150,000-200,000, concentrated in mining, industry, construction, and
    transportation; mostly organized under Bolivian Workers' Central (COB) labor
    federation

:Bolivia Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Bolivia
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    La Paz (seat of government); Sucre (legal capital and seat of judiciary)
Administrative divisions:
    9 departments (departamentos, singular - departamento); Chuquisaca,
    Cochabamba, Beni, La Paz, Oruro, Pando, Potosi, Santa Cruz, Tarija
Independence:
    6 August 1825 (from Spain)
Constitution:
    2 February 1967
Legal system:
    based on Spanish law and Code Napoleon; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
    jurisdiction
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 6 August (1825)
Executive branch:
    president, vice president, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    bicameral National Congress (Congreso Nacional) consists of an upper chamber
    or Chamber of Senators (Camara de Senadores) and a lower chamber or Chamber
    of Deputies (Camara de Diputados)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court (Corte Suprema)
Leaders:
  Chief of State and Head of Government:
    President Jaime PAZ Zamora (since 6 August 1989); Vice President Luis OSSIO
    Sanjines (since 6 August 1989)
Political parties and leaders:
    Movement of the Revolutionary Left (MIR), Jaime PAZ Zamora; Nationalist
    Democratic Action (ADN), Hugo BANZER Suarez; Nationalist Revolutionary
    Movement (MNR), Gonzalo SANCHEZ de Lozada; Civic Solidarity Union (UCS), Max
    FERNANDEZ Rojas; Conscience of the Fatherland (CONDEPA), Carlos PALENQUE
    Aviles; Christian Democratic Party (PDC), Jorge AGREDO; Free Bolivia
    Movement (MBL), led by Antonio ARANIBAR; United Left (IU), a coalition of
    leftist parties that includes Patriotic National Convergency Axis (EJE-P)
    led by Walter DELGADILLO, and Bolivian Communist Party (PCB) led by Humberto
    RAMIREZ; Revolutionary Vanguard - 9th of April (VR-9), Carlos SERRATE Reich
Suffrage:
    universal and compulsory at age 18 (married) or 21 (single)
Elections:
  Chamber of Deputies:
    last held 7 May 1989 (next to be held May 1993); results - percent of vote
    by party NA; note - legislative and presidential candidates run on a unified
    slate, so vote percentages are the same as in section on presidential
    election results; seats - (130 total) MNR 40, ADN 35, MIR 33, IU 10, CONDEPA
    9, PDC 3
  Chamber of Senators:
    last held 7 May 1989 (next to be held May 1993); results - percent of vote
    by party NA; note - legislative and presidential candidates run on a unified
    slate, so vote percentages are the same as in section on presidential
    election results; seats - (27 total) MNR 9, ADN 7, MIR 8, CONDEPA 2, PDC 1

:Bolivia Government

  President:
    last held 7 May 1989 (next to be held May 1993); results - Gonzalo SANCHEZ
    de Lozada (MNR) 23%, Hugo BANZER Suarez (ADN) 22%, Jaime PAZ Zamora (MIR)
    19%; no candidate received a majority of the popular vote; Jaime PAZ Zamora
    (MIR) formed a coalition with Hugo BANZER (ADN); with ADN support PAZ Zamora
    won the congressional runoff election on 4 August and was inaugurated on 6
    August 1989
Member of:
    AG, ECLAC, FAO, G-11, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICO, IDA, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF,
    IMO, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, IOM, ITU, LAES, LAIA, LORCS, NAM, OAS, OPANAL,
    PCA, RG, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Jorge CRESPO; Chancery at 3014 Massachusetts Avenue NW,
    Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 483-4410 through 4412; there are
    Bolivian Consulates General in Los Angeles, Miami, New York, and San
    Francisco
  US:
    Ambassador Charles R. BOWERS; Embassy at Banco Popular del Peru Building,
    corner of Calles Mercado y Colon, La Paz (mailing address is P. O. Box 425,
    La Paz, or APO AA 34032); telephone [591] (2) 350251 or 350120; FAX [591]
    (2) 359875
Flag:
    three equal horizontal bands of red (top), yellow, and green with the coat
    of arms centered on the yellow band; similar to the flag of Ghana, which has
    a large black five-pointed star centered in the yellow band

:Bolivia Economy

Overview:
    The Bolivian economy steadily deteriorated between 1980 and 1985 as La Paz
    financed growing budget deficits by expanding the money supply, and
    inflation spiraled - peaking at 11,700%. An austere orthodox economic
    program adopted by then President Paz Estenssoro in 1985, however, succeeded
    in reducing inflation to between 10% and 20% annually since 1987, eventually
    restarting economic growth. Since August 1989, President Paz Zamora has
    retained the economic policies of the previous government, keeping inflation
    down and continuing moderate growth. Nevertheless, Bolivia continues to be
    one of the poorest countries in Latin America, with widespread poverty and
    unemployment, and it remains vulnerable to price fluctuations for its
    limited exports - agricultural products, minerals, and natural gas.
    Moreover, for many farmers, who constitute half of the country's work force,
    the main cash crop is coca, which is sold for cocaine processing.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $4.6 billion, per capita $630; real growth rate
    4% (1991)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    15% (1991)
Unemployment rate:
    7% (1991 est.)
Budget:
    revenues $900 million; expenditures $825 million, including capital
    expenditures of $300 million (1991 est.)
Exports:
    $970 million (f.o.b., 1991)
  commodities:
    metals 45%, natural gas 25%, other 30% (coffee, soybeans, sugar, cotton,
    timber)
  partners:
    US 15%, Argentina
Imports:
    $760 million (c.i.f., 1991)
  commodities:
    food, petroleum, consumer goods, capital goods
  partners:
    US 22%
External debt:
    $3.3 billion (December 1991)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 6% (1991); accounts for almost 30% of GDP
Electricity:
    849,000 kW capacity; 1,798 million kWh produced, 251 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    mining, smelting, petroleum, food and beverage, tobacco, handicrafts,
    clothing; illicit drug industry reportedly produces significant revenues
Agriculture:
    accounts for about 20% of GDP (including forestry and fisheries); principal
    commodities - coffee, coca, cotton, corn, sugarcane, rice, potatoes, timber;
    self-sufficient in food
Illicit drugs:
    world's second-largest producer of coca (after Peru) with an estimated
    47,900 hectares under cultivation; voluntary and forced eradication program
    unable to prevent production from rising to 78,400 metric tons in 1991 from
    74,700 tons in 1989; government considers all but 12,000 hectares illicit;
    intermediate coca products and cocaine exported to or through Colombia and
    Brazil to the US and other international drug markets

:Bolivia Economy

Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $990 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $2,025 million;
    Communist countries (1970-89), $340 million
Currency:
    boliviano (plural - bolivianos); 1 boliviano ($B) = 100 centavos
Exchange rates:
    bolivianos ($B) per US$1 - 3.7534 (January 1992), 3.5806 (1991), 3.1727
    (1990), 2.6917 (1989), 2.3502 (1988), 2.0549 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Bolivia Communications

Railroads:
    3,684 km total, all narrow gauge; 3,652 km 1.000-meter gauge and 32 km
    0.760-meter gauge, all government owned, single track
Highways:
    38,836 km total; 1,300 km paved, 6,700 km gravel, 30,836 km improved and
    unimproved earth
Inland waterways:
    10,000 km of commercially navigable waterways
Pipelines:
    crude oil 1,800 km; petroleum products 580 km; natural gas 1,495 km
Ports:
    none; maritime outlets are Arica and Antofagasta in Chile, Matarani and Ilo
    in Peru
Merchant marine:
    2 cargo and 1 container ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 16,951 GRT/26,320
    DWT
Civil air:
    56 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    1,105 total, 943 usable; 9 with permanent-surface runways; 2 with runways
    over 3,659 m; 7 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 146 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    radio relay system being expanded; improved international services; 144,300
    telephones; broadcast stations - 129 AM, no FM, 43 TV, 68 shortwave; 1
    Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT earth station

:Bolivia Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Navy (including Marines), Air Force, National Police Force
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 1,727,101; 1,122,224 fit for military service; 72,977 reach
    military age (18) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $80 million, 1.6% of GDP (1990 est).

:Bosnia and Herzegovina Geography

Total area:
    51,233 km2
Land area:
    51,233 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than Tennessee
Land boundaries:
    1,369 km; Croatia (northwest) 751 km, Croatia (south) 91 km, Serbia and
    Montenegro 527 km
Coastline:
    20 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    NA nm
  Continental shelf:
    20-meter depth
  Exclusive economic zone:
    12 nm
  Exclusive fishing zone:
    12 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    Serbia and Croatia seek to cantonize Bosnia and Herzegovina; Muslim majority
    being forced from many areas
Climate:
    hot summers and cold winters; areas of high elevation have short, cool
    summers and long, severe winters; mild, rainy winters along coast
Terrain:
    mountains and valleys
Natural resources:
    coal, iron, bauxite, manganese, timber, wood products, copper, chromium,
    lead, zinc
Land use:
    20% arable land; 2% permanent crops; 25% meadows and pastures; 36% forest
    and woodland; 16% other; includes 1% irrigated
Environment:
    air pollution from metallurgical plants; water scarce; sites for disposing
    of urban waste are limited; subject to frequent and destructive earthquakes
Note:
    Controls large percentage of important land routes from Western Europe to
    Aegean Sea and Turkish Straits

:Bosnia and Herzegovina People

Population:
    4,364,000 (July 1991), growth rate 0.5% (1991)
Birth rate:
    14.5 births/1,000 population (1991)
Death rate:
    6.5 deaths/1,000 population (1991)
Net migration rate:
    NA migrants/1,000 population (1991)
Infant mortality rate:
    15.2 deaths/1,000 live births (1991)
Life expectancy at birth:
    68 years male, 73 years female (1980-82)
Total fertility rate:
    NA children born/woman (1991)
Nationality:
    noun - Muslim, Serb, Croat (s); adjective - Muslim, Serbian, Croatian
Ethnic divisions:
    Muslim 44%, Serb 33%, Croat 17%
Religions:
    Slavic Muslim 40%, Orthodox 31%, Catholic 15%, Protestant 4%
Languages:
    Serbo-Croatian 99%
Literacy:
    85.5% (male 94.5%, female 76.7%) age 10 and over can read and write (1981
    est.)
Labor force:
    1,026,254; 2% agriculture, industry, mining 45% (1991 est.)
Organized labor:
    NA

:Bosnia and Herzegovina Government

Long-form name:
    none
Type:
    emerging democracy
Capital:
    Sarajevo
Administrative divisions:
    NA
Independence:
    December 1918; April 1992 from Yugoslavia
Constitution:
    NA
Legal system:
    based on civil law system
National holiday:
    NA
Executive branch:
    president, prime minister, deputy prime minister
Legislative branch:
    NA
Judicial branch:
    NA
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Alija IZETBEGOVIC (since December 1990), Vice President NA
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Jore PELIVAN (since January 1991), Deputy Prime Minister
    Muhamed CENGIC and Rusmir MAHMUTCEHAJIC (since January 1991)
Political parties and leaders:
    Party of Democratic Action, Alija IZETBEGOVIC; Croatian Democratic Union,
    Mate BOBAN; Serbian Democratic Party, Radovah KARADZIC; Muslim Bosnian
    Organization, Muhamed Zulfikar PASIC; Socialist Democratic Party, Nijaz
    DURAKOVIC
Suffrage:
    at age 16 if employed; universal at age 18
Elections:
    NA
Other political or pressure groups:
    NA
Member of:
    CSCE
Diplomatic representation:
    NA
Flag:
    NA

:Bosnia and Herzegovina Economy

Overview:
    Bosnia and Herzegovina ranked next to Macedonia as the poorest component in
    the old Yugoslav federation. Although agriculture has been almost all in
    private hands, farms have been small and inefficient, and the republic
    traditionally has been a net importer of food. Industry has been greatly
    overstaffed, one reflection of the rigidities of Communist central planning
    and management. Tito had pushed the development of military industries in
    the republic with the result that Bosnia hosted a large share of
    Yugoslavia's defense plants. As of April 1992, the newly independent
    republic was being torn apart by bitter interethnic warfare that has caused
    production to plummet, unemployment and inflation to soar, and human misery
    to multiply. The survival of the republic as a political and economic unit
    is in doubt. Both Serbia and Croatia have imposed various economic blockades
    and may permanently take over large areas populated by fellow ethnic groups.
    These areas contain most of the industry. If a much smaller core Muslim
    state survives, it will share many Third World problems of poverty,
    technological backwardness, and dependence on historically soft foreign
    markets for its primary products. In these circumstances, other Muslim
    countries might offer assistance.
GDP:
    $14 billion; real growth rate --37% (1991)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    80% per month (1991)
Unemployment rate:
    28% (February 1992 est.)
Budget:
    revenues $NA million; expenditures $NA million, including capital
    expenditures of $NA million (19__)
Exports:
    $2,054 million (1990)
  commodities:
    manufactured goods (31%), machinery and transport equipment (20.8%), raw
    materials (18%), miscellaneous manufactured articles (17.3%), chemicals
    (9.4%), fuel and lubricants (1.4%), food and live animals (1.2%)
  partners:
    principally the other former Yugoslav republics
Imports:
    $1,891 million (1990)
  commodities:
    fuels and lubricants (32%), machinery and transport equipment (23.3%), other
    manufactures (21.3%), chemicals (10%), raw materials (6.7%), food and live
    animals (5.5%), beverages and tobacco (1.9%)
  partners:
    principally the other former Yugoslav republics
External debt:
    NA
Industrial production:
    sharply down because of interethnic and interrepublic warfare (1991-92)
Electricity:
    14,400 million kW capacity; NA million kWh produced, 3,303 kWh per capita
    (1991)
Industries:
    steel production, mining (coal, iron ore, lead, zinc, manganese, and
    bauxite), manufacturing (vehicle assembly, textiles, tobacco products,
    wooden furniture, 40% of former Yugoslavia's armaments including tank and
    aircraft assembly, domestic appliances), oil refining

:Bosnia and Herzegovina Economy

Agriculture:
    accounted for 8.6% of national income in 1989; regularly produces less than
    50% of food needs; the foothills of northern Bosnia support orchards,
    vineyards, livestock, and some wheat and corn; long winters and heavy
    precipitation leach soil fertility reducing agricultural output in the
    mountains; farms are mostly privately held, small, and not very productive
Illicit drugs:
    NA
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-87), $NA billion; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-86), $NA million;
    Communist countries (1971-86), $NA million
Currency:
    none; note - Croatian dinar used in ethnic Croat areas, Yugoslav dinar used
    in all other areas
Exchange rates:
    NA
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Bosnia and Herzegovina Communications

Railroads:
    NA km all 1.000-meter gauge (includes NA km electrified)
Highways:
    21,168 km total (1991); 11,436 km paved, 8,146 km gravel, 1,586 km earth
Inland waterways:
    NA km perennially navigable
Pipelines:
    crude oil 174 km, petroleum products NA km, natural gas NA km
Ports:
    maritime - none; inland - Bosanski Brod
Merchant marine:
    NA ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling NA GRT/NA DWT; includes NA cargo, NA
    container, NA liquefied gas, NA petroleum tanker
Civil air:
    NA major transport aircraft
Airports:
    2 main, NA usable; NA with permanent-surface runways; NA with runways over
    3,659 m; NA with runways 2,440-3,659 m; NA with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    Bosnia's telephone and telegraph network is in need of modernization and
    expansion, many urban areas being below average compared with services in
    other former Yugoslav republics; 727,000 telephones; broadcast stations - 9
    AM, 2 FM, 6 (0 repeaters) TV; 840,000 radios; 1,012,094 TVs; NA submarine
    coaxial cables; satellite ground stations - none

:Bosnia and Herzegovina Defense Forces

Branches:
    Territorial Defense Force
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, NA; NA fit for military service; 39,000 reach military age (18)
    annually
Defense expenditures:
    $NA, NA% of GDP

:Botswana Geography

Total area:
    600,370 km2
Land area:
    585, 370 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than Texas
Land boundaries:
    4,013 km; Namibia 1,360 km, South Africa 1,840 km, Zimbabwe 813 km
Coastline:
    none - landlocked
Maritime claims:
    none - landlocked
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    semiarid; warm winters and hot summers
Terrain:
    predominately flat to gently rolling tableland; Kalahari Desert in southwest
Natural resources:
    diamonds, copper, nickel, salt, soda, ash, potash, coal, iron ore, silver,
    natural gas
Land use:
    urable land 2%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 75%; forest and
    woodland 2%; other 21%; includes irrigated NEGL%
Environment:
    rains in early 1988 broke six years of drought that had severely affected
    the important cattle industry; overgazing; desertification
Note:
    landlocked

:Botswana People

Population:
    1,292,210 (July 1992), growth rate 2.6% (1992)
Birth rate:
    35 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    8 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    42 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    59 years male, 65 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    4.4 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun and ajective - Motswana (singular), Batswana (plural)
Ethnic divisions:
    Batswana 95%; Kalanga, Basarwa, and Kgalagadi about 4%; white about 1%
Religions:
    indigenous beliefs 50%, Christian 50%
Languages:
    English (official), Setswana
Literacy:
    23% (male 32%, female 16%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    400,000; 198,500 formal sector employees, most others are engaged in cattle
    raising and subsistence agriculture (1990 est.); 14,600 are employed in
    various mines in South Africa (1990)
Organized labor:
    19 trade unions

:Botswana Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Botswana
Type:
    parliamentary republic
Capital:
    Gaborone
Administrative divisions:
    10 districts: Central, Chobe, Ghanzi, Kgalagadi, Kgatleng, Kweneng,
    Ngamiland, North-East, South-East, Southern; note - in addition, there may
    now be 4 town councils named Francistown, Gaborone, Lobaste Selebi-Pikwe
Independence:
    30 September 1966 (from UK; formerly Bechuanaland)
Constitution:
    March 1965, effective 30 September 1966
Legal system:
    based on Roman-Dutch law and local customary law; judicial review limited to
    matters of interpretation; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 30 September (1966)
Executive branch:
    president, vice president, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    bicameral National Assembly consists of an upper house or House of Chiefs
    and a lower house or National Assembly
Judicial branch:
    High Court, Court of Appeal
Leaders:
  Chief of State and Head of Government:
    President Quett K. J. MASIRE (since 13 July 1980); Vice President Peter S.
    MMUSI (since 3 January 1983)
Political parties and leaders:
    Botswana Democratic Party (BDP), Quett MASIRE; Botswana National Front
    (BNF), Kenneth KOMA; Boswana People's Party (BPP), Knight MARIPE; Botswana
    Independence Party (BIP), Motsamai MPHO
Suffrage:
    universal at age 21
Elections:
  National Assembly:
    last held 7 October 1989 (next to be held October 1994); results - percent
    of vote by party NA; seats - (38 total, 34 elected) BDP 35, BNF 3
  President:
    last held 7 October 1989 (next to be held October 1994); results - President
    Quett K. J. MASIRE was reelected by the National Assembly
Communists:
    no known Communist organization; Kenneth KOMA of BNF has long history of
    Communist contacts
Member of:
    ACP, AfDB, C, CCC, ECA, FAO, FLS, G-77, GATT, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, IDA, IFAD,
    IFC, ILO, IMF, INTERPOL, IOC, ITU, LORCS, NAM, OAU, SACU, SADCC, UN, UNCTAD,
    UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WHO, WMO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Botsweletse Kingsley SEBELE; Chancery at Suite 7M, 3400
    International Drive NW, Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 244-4990 or
    4991
  US:
    Ambassador Davie PASSAGE; Embassy at Gaborone (mailing address is P. O. Box
    90, Gaborone); telephone [267] 353-982; FAX [267] 356-947
Flag:
    light blue with a horizontal white-edged black stripe in the center

:Botswana Economy

Overview:
    The economy has historically been based on cattle raising and crops.
    Agriculture today provides a livelihood for more than 80% of the population,
    but produces only about 50% of food needs. The driving force behind the
    rapid economic growth of the 1970s and 1980s has been the mining industry.
    This sector, mostly on the strength of diamonds, has gone from generating
    25% of GDP in 1980 to over 50% in 1989. No other sector has experienced such
    growth, especially not agriculture, which is plagued by erratic rainfall and
    poor soils. The unemployment rate remains a problem at 25%. Although diamond
    production remained level in FY91, substantial gains in coal output and
    manufacturing helped boost the economy
GDP:
    purchasing power equivalent - $3.6 billion, per capita $2,800; real growth
    rate 6.3% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    12.6% (1991)
Unemployment rate:
    25% (1989)
Budget:
    revenues $1,935 million; expenditures $1,885 million, including capital
    expenditures of $658 million (FY93)
Exports:
    $1.8 billion (f.o.b. 1990)
  commodities:
    diamonds 80%, copper and nickel 9%, meat 4%, cattle, animal products
  partners:
    Switzerland, UK, SACU (Southern African Customs Union)
Imports:
    $1.6 billion (c.i.f., 1990 est.)
  commodities:
    foodstuffs, vehicles and transport equipment, textiles, petroleum products
  partners:
    Switzerland, SACU (Southern African Customs Union), UK, US
External debt:
    $780 million (December 1990 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 16.8% (FY86); accounts for about 57% of GDP, including mining
Electricity:
    220,000 kW capacity; 630 million kWh produced 858 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    mining of diamonds, copper, nickel, coal, salt, soda ash, potash; livestock
    processing
Agriculture:
    accounts for only 3% of DGP; subsistence farming predominates; cattle
    raising supports 50% of the population; must import large share of food
    needs
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $257 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $1,875 million; OPEC
    bilateral aid (1979-89), $43 million; Communist countries (1970-89), $29
    million
Currency:
    pula (plural - pula); 1 pula (P) = 100 thebe
Exchange rates:
    pula (P) per US$1 - 2.1683 (March 1992), 2.0173 (1991), 1.8601 (1990),
    2.0125 (1989), 1.8159 (1988), 1.6779 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    1 April - 31 March

:Botswana Communications

Railroads:
    712 km 1.067-meter gauge
Highways:
    11,514 km total; 1,600 km paved; 1,700 km crushed stone or gravel, 5,177 km
    improved earth, 3,037 km unimproved earth
Civil air:
    5 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    100 total, 87 unable; 8 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 1 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 27 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    the small system is a combination of open-wire lines, radio relay links, and
    a few radio-communications stations; 26,000 telephones; broadcast stations -
    7 AM, 13 FM, no TV; 1 Indian Ocean INTELSAT earth station

:Botswana Defense Forces

Branches:
    Botswana Defense Force (including Army and Air Wing); Botswana National
    Police
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 271,511; 142,947 fit for military service; 14,473 reach
    military age (18) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $136.4 million, 4.4% of GDP (FY92)

:Bouvet Island Geography

Total area:
    58 km2
Land area:
    58 km2
Comparative area:
    about 0.3 times the size of Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    29.6 km
Maritime claims:
  Territorial sea:
    4 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    antarctic
Terrain:
    volcanic; maximum elevation about 800 meters; coast is mostly inacessible
Natural resources:
    none
Land use:
    arable land 0%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 0%; forest and
    woodland 0%; other 100% (ice)
Environment:
    covered by glacial ice
Note:
    located in the South Atlantic Ocean 2,575 km south-southwest of the Cape of
    Good Hope, South Africa

:Bouvet Island People

Population:
    uninhabited

:Bouvet Island Government

Long-form name:
    none
Type:
    territory of Norway
Capital:
    none; administered from Oslo, Norway

:Bouvet Island Economy

Overview:
    no economic activity

:Bouvet Island Communications

Ports:
    none; offshore anchorage only
Telecommunications:
    automatic meteorological station

:Bouvet Island Defense Forces

Note:
    defense is the responsibility of Norway

:Brazil Geography

Total area:
    8,511,965 km2
Land area:
    8,456,510 km2; includes Arquipelago de Fernando de Noronha, Atol das Rocas,
    Ilha da Trindade, Ilhas Martin Vaz, and Penedos de Sao Pedro e Sao Paulo
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than the US
Land boundaries:
    14,691 km; Argentina 1,224 km, Bolivia 3,400 km, Colombia 1,643 km, French
    Guiana 673 km, Guyana 1,119 km, Paraguay 1,290 km, Peru 1,560 km, Suriname
    597 km, Uruguay 985 km, Venezuela 2,200 km
Coastline:
    7,491 km
Maritime claims:
  Continental shelf:
    200 m (depth) or to depth of exploitation
  Exclusive fishing zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    200 nm
Disputes:
    short section of the boundary with Paraguay (just west of Guaira Falls on
    the Rio Parana) is in dispute; two short sections of boundary with Uruguay
    are in dispute (Arroyo de la Invernada area of the Rio Quarai and the
    islands at the confluence of the Rio Quarai and the Uruguay)
Climate:
    mostly tropical, but temperate in south
Terrain:
    mostly flat to rolling lowlands in north; some plains, hills, mountains, and
    narrow coastal belt
Natural resources:
    iron ore, manganese, bauxite, nickel, uranium, phosphates, tin, hydropower,
    gold, platinum, crude oil, timber
Land use:
    arable land 7%; permanent crops 1%; meadows and pastures 19%; forest and
    woodland 67%; other 6%; includes irrigated NEGL%
Environment:
    recurrent droughts in northeast; floods and frost in south; deforestation in
    Amazon basin; air and water pollution in Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo
Note:
    largest country in South America; shares common boundaries with every South
    American country except Chile and Ecuador

:Brazil People

Population:
    158,202,019 (July 1992), growth rate 1.8% (1992)
Birth rate:
    25 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    7 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    67 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    62 years male, 69 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    3.0 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Brazilian(s); adjective - Brazilian
Ethnic divisions:
    Portuguese, Italian, German, Japanese, black, Amerindian; white 55%, mixed
    38%, black 6%, other 1%
Religions:
    Roman Catholic (nominal) 90%
Languages:
    Portuguese (official), Spanish, English, French
Literacy:
    81% (male 82%, female 80%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    57,000,000 (1989 est.); services 42%, agriculture 31%, industry 27%
Organized labor:
    13,000,000 dues paying members (1989 est.)

:Brazil Government

Long-form name:
    Federative Republic of Brazil
Type:
    federal republic
Capital:
    Brasilia
Administrative divisions:
    26 states (estados, singular - estado) and 1 federal district* (distrito
    federal); Acre, Alagoas, Amapa, Amazonas, Bahia, Ceara, Distrito Federal*,
    Espirito Santo, Goias, Maranhao, Mato Grosso, Mato Grosso do Sul, Minas
    Gerais, Para, Paraiba, Parana, Pernambuco, Piaui, Rio de Janeiro, Rio Grande
    do Norte, Rio Grande do Sul, Rondonia, Roraima, Santa Catarina, Sao Paulo,
    Sergipe, Tocantins; note - the former territories of Amapa and Roraima
    became states in January 1991
Independence:
    7 September 1822 (from Portugal)
Constitution:
    5 October 1988
Legal system:
    based on Latin codes; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 7 September (1822)
Executive branch:
    president, vice president, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    bicameral National Congress (Congresso Nacional) consists of an upper
    chamber or Federal Senate (Senado Federal) and a lower chamber or Chamber of
    Deputies (Camara dos Deputados)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Federal Tribunal
Leaders:
  Chief of State and Head of Government:
    President Fernando Affonso COLLOR de Mello (since 15 March 1990); Vice
    President Itamar FRANCO (since 15 March 1990)
Political parties and leaders:
    National Reconstruction Party (PRN), Daniel TOURINHO, president; Brazilian
    Democratic Movement Party (PMDB), Orestes QUERCIA, president; Liberal Front
    Party (PFL), Hugo NAPOLEAO, president; Workers' Party (PT), Luis Ignacio
    (Lula) da SILVA, president; Brazilian Labor Party (PTB), Luiz GONZAGA de
    Paiva Muniz, president; Democratic Labor Party (PDT), Leonel BRIZOLA,
    president; Democratic Social Party (PPS), Paulo MALUF, president; Brazilian
    Social Democracy Party (PSDB), Tasso JEREISSATI, president; Popular
    Socialist Party (PPS), Roberto FREIRE, president; Communist Party of Brazil
    (PCdoB), Joao AMAZONAS, secretary general; Christian Democratic Party (PDC),
    Siqueira CAMPOS, president
Suffrage:
    voluntary at age 16; compulsory between ages 18 and 70; voluntary at age 70
Elections:
  Chamber of Deputies:
    last held 3 October 1990 (next to be held November 1994); results - PMDB
    21%, PFL 17%, PDT 9%, PDS 8%, PRN 7.9%, PTB 7%, PT 7%, other 23.1%; seats -
    (503 total as of 3 February 1991) PMDB 108, PFL 87, PDT 46, PDS 43, PRN 40,
    PTB 35, PT 35, other 109
  Federal Senate:
    last held 3 October 1990 (next to be held November 1994); results - percent
    of vote by party NA; seats - (81 total as of 3 February 1991) PMDB 27, PFL
    15, PSDB 10, PTB 8, PDT 5, other 16

:Brazil Government

  President:
    last held 15 November 1989, with runoff on 17 December 1989 (next to be held
    November 1994); results - Fernando COLLOR de Mello 53%, Luis Inacio da SILVA
    47%; note - first free, direct presidential election since 1960
Communists:
    less than 30,000
Other political or pressure groups:
    left wing of the Catholic Church and labor unions allied to leftist Worker's
    Party are critical of government's social and economic policies
Member of:
    AfDB, AG (observer), CCC, ECLAC, FAO, G-11, G-15, G-19, G-24, G-77, GATT,
    IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, IDA, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INMARSAT,
    INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, IOM (observer), ISO, ITU, LAES, LAIA, LORCS,
    MERCOSUR, NAM (observer), OAS, OPANAL, PCA, RG, UN, UNAVEM, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
    UNHCR, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WHO, WFTU, WIPO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Rubens RICUPERO; Chancery at 3006 Massachusetts Avenue NW,
    Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 745-2700; there are Brazilian
    Consulates General in Chicago, Los Angeles, Miami, New Orleans, and New
    York, and Consulates in Dallas, Houston, and San Francisco
  US:
    Ambassador Richard MELTON; Embassy at Avenida das Nacoes, Lote 3, Brasilia,
    Distrito Federal (mailing address is APO AA 34030); telephone [55] (61)
    321-7272; FAX [55] (61) 225-9136; there are US Consulates General in Rio de
    Janeiro and Sao Paulo, and Consulates in PortoAlegre and Recife
Flag:
    green with a large yellow diamond in the center bearing a blue celestial
    globe with 23 white five-pointed stars (one for each state) arranged in the
    same pattern as the night sky over Brazil; the globe has a white equatorial
    band with the motto ORDEM E PROGRESSO (Order and Progress)

:Brazil Economy

Overview:
    The economy, with large agrarian, mining, and manufacturing sectors, entered
    the 1990s with declining real growth, runaway inflation, an unserviceable
    foreign debt of $122 billion, and a lack of policy direction. In addition,
    the economy remained highly regulated, inward-looking, and protected by
    substantial trade and investment barriers. Ownership of major industrial and
    mining facilities is divided among private interests - including several
    multinationals - and the government. Most large agricultural holdings are
    private, with the government channeling financing to this sector. Conflicts
    between large landholders and landless peasants have produced intermittent
    violence. The Collor government, which assumed office in March 1990, is
    embarked on an ambitious reform program that seeks to modernize and
    reinvigorate the economy by stabilizing prices, deregulating the economy,
    and opening it to increased foreign competition. The government in December
    1991 signed a letter of intent with the IMF for a 20-month standby loan.
    Having reached an agreement on the repayment of interest arrears accumulated
    during 1989 and 1990, Brazilian officials and commercial bankers are engaged
    in talks on the reduction of medium- and long-term debt and debt service
    payments and on the elimination of remaining interest arrears. A major
    long-run strength is Brazil's vast natural resources.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $358 billion, per capita $2,300; real growth rate
    1.2% (1991)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    478.5% (December 1991, annual rate)
Unemployment rate:
    4.3% (1991)
Budget:
    revenues $164.3 billion; expenditures $170.6 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $32.9 billion (1990)
Exports:
    $31.6 billion (1991)
  commodities:
    iron ore, soybean bran, orange juice, footwear, coffee
  partners:
    EC 31%, US 24%, Latin America 11%, Japan 8% (1990)
Imports:
    $21.0 billion (1991)
  commodities:
    crude oil, capital goods, chemical products, foodstuffs, coal
  partners:
    Middle East and Africa 22%, US 21%, EC 21%, Latin America 18%, Japan 6%
    (1990)
External debt:
    $118 billion (December 1991)
Industrial production:
    growth rate--0.5% (1991); accounts for 39% of GDP
Electricity:
    58,500,000 kW capacity; 229,824 million kWh produced, 1,479 kWh per capita
    (1991)
Industries:
    textiles and other consumer goods, shoes, chemicals, cement, lumber, iron
    ore, steel, motor vehicles and auto parts, metalworking, capital goods, tin
Agriculture:
    world's largest producer and exporter of coffee and orange juice concentrate
    and second- largest exporter of soybeans; other products - rice, corn,
    sugarcane, cocoa, beef; self-sufficient in food, except for wheat

:Brazil Economy

Illicit drugs:
    illicit producer of cannabis and coca, mostly for domestic consumption;
    government has a modest eradication program to control cannabis and coca
    cultivation; important transshipment country for Bolivian and Colombian
    cocaine headed for the US and Europe
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $2.5 billion; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $10.2 million; OPEC
    bilateral aid (1979-89), $284 million; former Communist countries (1970-89),
    $1.3 billion
Currency:
    cruzeiro (plural - cruzeiros); 1 cruzeiro (Cr$) = 100 centavos
Exchange rates:
    cruzeiros (Cr$) per US$1 - 1,197.38 (January 1992), 406.61 (1991), 68.300
    (1990), 2.834 (1989), 0.26238 (1988), 0.03923 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Brazil Communications

Railroads:
    28,828 km total; 24,864 km 1.000-meter gauge, 3,877 km 1.600-meter gauge, 74
    km mixed 1.600-1.000-meter gauge, 13 km 0.760-meter gauge; 2,360 km
    electrified
Highways:
    1,448,000 km total; 48,000 km paved, 1,400,000 km gravel or earth
Inland waterways:
    50,000 km navigable
Pipelines:
    crude oil 2,000 km; petroleum products 3,804 km; natural gas 1,095 km
Ports:
    Belem, Fortaleza, Ilheus, Manaus, Paranagua, Porto Alegre, Recife, Rio de
    Janeiro, Rio Grande, Salvador, Santos
Merchant marine:
    245 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 5,693,500 GRT/9,623,918 DWT; includes
    3 passenger-cargo, 49 cargo, 1 refrigerated cargo, 13 container, 9
    roll-on/roll-off, 57 petroleum tanker, 15 chemical tanker, 11 liquefied gas,
    14 combination ore/oil, 71 bulk, 2 combination bulk; in addition, 2 naval
    tankers and 4 military transport are sometimes used commercially
Civil air:
    198 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    3,563 total, 2,911 usable; 420 with permanent-surface runways; 2 with
    runways over 3,659 m; 22 with runways 2,240-3,659 m; 550 with runways
    1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    good system; extensive radio relay facilities; 9.86 million telephones;
    broadcast stations - 1,223 AM, no FM, 112 TV, 151 shortwave; 3 coaxial
    submarine cables, 3 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT earth stations and 64 domestic
    satellite earth stations

:Brazil Defense Forces

Branches:
    Brazilian Army, Navy of Brazil (including Marines), Brazilian Air Force,
    Military Police (paramilitary)
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 41,515,103; 27,987,257 fit for military service; 1,644,571
    reach military age (18) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $1.1 billion, 0.3% of GDP (1990)

:British Indian Ocean Territory Geography

Total area:
    60 km2
Land area:
    60 km2; includes the island of Diego Garcia
Comparative area:
    about 0.3 times the size of Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    698 km
Maritime claims:
  Territorial sea:
    UK announced establishment of 200-nm fishery zone in August 1991
Disputes:
    the entire Chagos Archipelago is claimed by Mauritius
Climate:
    tropical marine; hot, humid, moderated by trade winds
Terrain:
    flat and low (up to 4 meters in elevation)
Natural resources:
    coconuts, fish
Land use:
    arable land 0%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 0%; forest and
    woodland 0%; other 100%
Environment:
    archipelago of 2,300 islands
Note:
    Diego Garcia, largest and southernmost island, occupies strategic location
    in central Indian Ocean; island is site of joint US-UK military facility

:British Indian Ocean Territory People

Population:
    no permanent civilian population; formerly about 3,000 islanders
Ethnic divisions:
    civilian inhabitants, known as the Ilois, evacuated to Mauritius before
    construction of UK and US defense facilities

:British Indian Ocean Territory Government

Long-form name:
    British Indian Ocean Territory (no short-form name); abbreviated BIOT
Type:
    dependent territory of the UK
Capital:
    none
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952)
  Head of Government:
    Commissioner Mr. T. G. HARRIS; Administrator Mr. R. G. WELLS (since NA
    1991); note - both reside in the UK
Diplomatic representation:
    none (dependent territory of UK)
Flag:
    white with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side quadrant and six blue
    wavy horizontal stripes bearing a palm tree and yellow crown centered on the
    outer half of the flag

:British Indian Ocean Territory Economy

Overview:
    All economic activity is concentrated on the largest island of Diego Garcia,
    where joint UK-US defense facilities are located. Construction projects and
    various services needed to support the military installations are done by
    military and contract employees from the UK and the US. There are no
    industrial or agricultural activities on the islands.
Electricity:
    provided by the US military

:British Indian Ocean Territory Communications

Highways:
    short stretch of paved road between port and airfield on Diego Garcia
Ports:
    Diego Garcia
Airports:
    1 with permanent-surface runways over 3,659 m on Diego Garcia
Telecommunications:
    minimal facilities; broadcast stations (operated by US Navy) - 1 AM, 1 FM, 1
    TV; 1 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT earth station

:British Indian Ocean Territory Defense Forces

Note:
    defense is the responsibility of the UK

:British Virgin Islands Geography

Total area:
    150 km2
Land area:
    150 km2; includes the island of Anegada
Comparative area:
    about 0.8 times the size of Washington, DC
Coastline:
    80 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive fishing zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    3 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    subtropical; humid; temperatures moderated by trade winds
Terrain:
    coral islands relatively flat; volcanic islands steep, hilly
Natural resources:
    negligible
Land use:
    arable land 20%; permanent crops 7%; meadows and pastures 33%; forest and
    woodland 7%; other 33%
Environment:
    subject to hurricanes and tropical storms from July to October
Note:
    strong ties to nearby US Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico

:British Virgin Islands People

Population:
    12,555 (July 1992), growth rate 1.2% (1992)
Birth rate:
    20 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    6 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    --2 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    20 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    71 years male, 75 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    2.3 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - British Virgin Islander(s); adjective - British Virgin Islander
Ethnic divisions:
    over 90% black, remainder of white and Asian origin
Religions:
    Protestant 86% (Methodist 45%, Anglican 21%, Church of God 7%, Seventh-Day
    Adventist 5%, Baptist 4%, Jehovah's Witnesses 2%, other 2%), Roman Catholic
    6%, none 2%, other 6% (1981)
Languages:
    English (official)
Literacy:
    98% (male 98%, female 98%) age 15 and over can read and write (1970)
Labor force:
    4,911 (1980)
Organized labor:
    NA% of labor force

:British Virgin Islands Government

Long-form name:
    none
Type:
    dependent territory of the UK
Capital:
    Road Town
Administrative divisions:
    none (dependent territory of the UK)
Independence:
    none (dependent territory of the UK)
Constitution:
    1 June 1977
Legal system:
    English law
National holiday:
    Territory Day, 1 July
Executive branch:
    British monarch, governor, chief minister, Executive Council (cabinet)
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Legislative Council
Judicial branch:
    Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952), represented by Governor P. A.
    PENFOLD (since NA 1991)
  Head of Government:
    Chief Minister H. Lavity STOUTT (since NA 1986)
Political parties and leaders:
    United Party (UP), Conrad MADURO; Virgin Islands Party (VIP), H. Lavity
    STOUTT; Independent Progressive Movement (IPM), Cyril B. ROMNEY
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  Legislative Council:
    last held 12 November 1990 (next to be held by November 1995); results -
    percent of vote by party NA; seats - (9 total) VIP 6, IPM 1, independents 2
Member of:
    CARICOM (associate), CDB, ECLAC (associate), IOC, OECS, UNESCO (associate)
Diplomatic representation:
    none (dependent territory of UK)
Flag:
    blue with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side quadrant and the Virgin
    Islander coat of arms centered in the outer half of the flag; the coat of
    arms depicts a woman flanked on either side by a vertical column of six oil
    lamps above a scroll bearing the Latin word
    VIGILATE (Be Watchful)

:British Virgin Islands Economy

Overview:
    The economy, one of the most prosperous in the Caribbean area, is highly
    dependent on the tourist industry, which generates about 21% of the national
    income. In 1985 the government offered offshore registration to companies
    wishing to incorporate in the islands, and, in consequence, incorporation
    fees generated about $2 million in 1987. Livestock raising is the most
    significant agricultural activity. The islands' crops, limited by poor
    soils, are unable to meet food requirements.
GDP:
    purchasing power equivalent - $130 million, per capita $10,600; real growth
    rate 6.3% (1990)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    2.5% (1990 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    NEGL%
Budget:
    revenues $51 million; expenditures $88 million, including capital
    expenditures of $38 million (1991)
Exports:
    $2.7 million (f.o.b., 1988)
  commodities:
    rum, fresh fish, gravel, sand, fruits, animals
  partners:
    Virgin Islands (US), Puerto Rico, US
Imports:
    $11.5 million (c.i.f., 1988)
  commodities:
    building materials, automobiles, foodstuffs, machinery
  partners:
    Virgin Islands (US), Puerto Rico, US
External debt:
    $4.5 million (1985)
Industrial production:
    growth rate--4.0% (1985)
Electricity:
    10,500 kW capacity; 43 million kWh produced, 3,510 kWh per capita (1990)
Industries:
    tourism, light industry, construction, rum, concrete block, offshore
    financial center
Agriculture:
    livestock (including poultry), fish, fruit, vegetables
Economic aid:
    NA
Currency:
    US currency is used
Exchange rates:
    US currency is used
Fiscal year:
    1 April - 31 March

:British Virgin Islands Communications

Highways:
    106 km motorable roads (1983)
Ports:
    Road Town
Airports:
    3 total, 3 usable; 2 with permanent-surface runways less than 1,220 m
Telecommunications:
    3,000 telephones; worldwide external telephone service; submarine cable
    communication links to Bermuda; broadcast stations - 1 AM, no FM, 1 TV

:British Virgin Islands Defense Forces

Note:
    defense is the responsibility of the UK

:Brunei Geography

Total area:
    5,770 km2
Land area:
    5,270 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than Delaware
Land boundaries:
    381 km; Malysia 381 km
Coastline:
    161 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive fishing zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    may wish to purchase the Malaysian salient that divides the country; all of
    the Spratly Islands are claimed by China, Taiwan, and Vietnam; parts of them
    are claimed by Malaysia and the Philippines; in 1984, Brunei established an
    exclusive fishing zone that encompasses Louisa Reef, but has not publicly
    claimed the island
Climate:
    tropical; hot, humid, rainy
Terrain:
    flat coastal plain rises to mountains in east; hilly lowland in west
Natural resources:
    crude oil, natural gas, timber
Land use:
    arable land 1%; permanent crops 1%; meadows and pastures 1%; forest and
    woodland 79%; other 18%; includes irrigated NEGL%
Environment:
    typhoons, earthquakes, and severe flooding are rare
Note:
    close to vital sea lanes through South China Sea linking Indian and Pacific
    Oceans; two parts physically separated by Malaysia; almost an enclave of
    Malaysia

:Brunei People

Population:
    269,319 (July 1992), growth rate 2.9% (1992)
Birth rate:
    27 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    5 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    7 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    26 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    69 years male, 73 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    3.5 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Bruneian(s); adjective - Bruneian
Ethnic divisions:
    Malay 64%, Chinese 20%, other 16%
Religions:
    Muslim (official) 63%, Buddhism 14%, Christian 8%, indigenous beliefs and
    other 15% (1981)
Languages:
    Malay (official), English, and Chinese
Literacy:
    77% (male 85%, female 69%) age 15 and over can read and write (1981)
Labor force:
    89,000 (includes members of the Army); 33% of labor force is foreign (1988);
    government 47.5%; production of oil, natural gas, services, and construction
    41.9%; agriculture, forestry, and fishing 3.8% (1986)
Organized labor:
    2% of labor force

:Brunei Government

Long-form name:
    Negara Brunei Darussalam
Type:
    constitutional sultanate
Capital:
    Bandar Seri Begawan
Administrative divisions:
    4 districts (daerah-daerah, singular - daerah); Belait, Brunei and Muara,
    Temburong, Tutong
Independence:
    1 January 1984 (from UK)
Constitution:
    29 September 1959 (some provisions suspended under a State of Emergency
    since December 1962, others since independence on 1 January 1984)
Legal system:
    based on Islamic law
National holiday:
    23 February (1984)
Executive branch:
    sultan, prime minister, Council of Cabinet Ministers
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Legislative Council (Majlis Masyuarat Megeri)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State and Head of Government:
    Sultan and Prime Minister His Majesty Paduka Seri Baginda Sultan Haji
    HASSANAL Bolkiah Mu`izzaddin Waddaulah (since 5 October 1967)
Political parties and leaders:
    Brunei United National Party (inactive), Anak HASANUDDIN, chairman; Brunei
    National Democratic Party (the first legal political party and now banned),
    leader NA
Suffrage:
    none
Elections:
  Legislative Council:
    last held in March 1962; in 1970 the Council was changed to an appointive
    body by decree of the sultan and no elections are planned
Member of:
    APEC, ASEAN, C, ESCAP, G-77, ICAO, IDB, IMO, INTERPOL, IOC, ISO
    (correspondent), ITU, OIC, UN, UNCTAD, UPU, WHO, WMO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Mohamed KASSIM bin Haji Mohamed Daud; Chancery at 2600 Virginia
    Avenue NW, Suite 3000, Washington, DC 20037; telephone (202) 342-0159
  US:
    Ambassador (vacant); Embassy at Third Floor, Teck Guan Plaza, Jalan Sultan,
    American Embassy Box B, APO AP 96440; telephone [673] (2) 229-670; FAX [673]
    (2) 225-293
Flag:
    yellow with two diagonal bands of white (top, almost double width) and black
    starting from the upper hoist side; the national emblem in red is
    superimposed at the center; the emblem includes a swallow-tailed flag on top
    of a winged column within an upturned crescent above a scroll and flanked by
    two upraised hands

:Brunei Economy

Overview:
    The economy is a mixture of foreign and domestic entrepreneurship,
    government regulation and welfare measures, and village tradition. It is
    almost totally supported by exports of crude oil and natural gas, with
    revenues from the petroleum sector accounting for more than 50% of GDP. Per
    capita GDP of $8,800 is among the highest in the Third World, and
    substantial income from overseas investment supplements domestic production.
    The government provides for all medical services and subsidizes food and
    housing.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $3.5 billion, per capita $8,800; real growth rate
    1% (1990 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    1.3% (1989)
Unemployment rate:
    3.7%, shortage of skilled labor (1989)
Budget:
    revenues $1.3 billion; expenditures $1.5 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $255 million (1989 est.)
Exports:
    $2.2 billion (f.o.b., 1990 est.)
  commodities:
    crude oil, liquefied natural gas, petroleum products
  partners:
    Japan 53%, UK 12%, South Korea 9%, Thailand 7%, Singapore 5% (1990)
Imports:
    $1.7 billion (c.i.f., 1990 est.)
  commodities:
    machinery and transport equipment, manufactured goods, food, chemicals
  partners:
    Singapore 35%, UK 26%, Switzerland 9%, US 9%, Japan 5% (1990)
External debt:
    none
Industrial production:
    growth rate 12.9% (1987); accounts for 52.4% of GDP
Electricity:
    310,000 kW capacity; 890 million kWh produced, 2,400 kWh per capita (1990)
Industries:
    petroleum, petroleum refining, liquefied natural gas, construction
Agriculture:
    imports about 80% of its food needs; principal crops and livestock include
    rice, cassava, bananas, buffaloes, and pigs
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-87), $20.6 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $153 million
Currency:
    Bruneian dollar (plural - dollars); 1 Bruneian dollar (B$) = 100 cents
Exchange rates:
    Bruneian dollars (B$) per US$1 - 1.7454 (January 1991), 1.8125 (1990),
    1.9503 (1989), 2.0124 (1988), 2.1060 (1987), 2.1774 (1986); note - the
    Bruneian dollar is at par with the Singapore dollar
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Brunei Communications

Railroads:
    13 km 0.610-meter narrow-gauge private line
Highways:
    1,090 km total; 370 km paved (bituminous treated) and another 52 km under
    construction, 720 km gravel or unimproved
Inland waterways:
    209 km; navigable by craft drawing less than 1.2 meters
Pipelines:
    crude oil 135 km; petroleum products 418 km; natural gas 920 km
Ports:
    Kuala Belait, Muara
Merchant marine:
    7 liquefied gas carriers (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 348,476 GRT/340,635
    DWT
Civil air:
    4 major transport aircraft (3 Boeing 757-200, 1 Boeing 737-200)
Airports:
    2 total, 2 usable; 1 with permanent-surface runways; 1 with runway over
    3,659 m; 1 with runway 1,406 m
Telecommunications:
    service throughout country is adequate for present needs; international
    service good to adjacent Malaysia; radiobroadcast coverage good; 33,000
    telephones (1987); broadcast stations - 4 AM/FM, 1 TV; 74,000 radio
    receivers (1987); satellite earth stations - 1 Indian Ocean INTELSAT and 1
    Pacific Ocean INTELSAT

:Brunei Defense Forces

Branches:
    Ground Forces, Navy, Air Force, and Royal Brunei Police
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 75,330; 43,969 fit for military service; 2,595 reach military
    age (18) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $233.1 million, 7.1% of GDP (1988)

:Bulgaria Geography

Total area:
    110,910 km2
Land area:
    110,550 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than Tennessee
Land boundaries:
    1,881 km; Greece 494 km, Macedonia 148 km, Romania 608 km, Serbia and
    Montenegro 318 km, Turkey 240 km
Coastline:
    354 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    24 nm
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    Macedonia question with Greece and Macedonia
Climate:
    temperate; cold, damp winters; hot, dry summers
Terrain:
    mostly mountains with lowlands in north and south
Natural resources:
    bauxite, copper, lead, zinc, coal, timber, arable land
Land use:
    arable land 34%; permanent crops 3%; meadows and pastures 18%; forest and
    woodland 35%; other 10%; includes irrigated 11%
Environment:
    subject to earthquakes, landslides; deforestation; air pollution
Note:
    strategic location near Turkish Straits; controls key land routes from
    Europe to Middle East and Asia

:Bulgaria People

Population:
    8,869,161 (July 1992), growth rate --0.5% (1992)
Birth rate:
    12 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    12 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    --5 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    13 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    69 years male, 76 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    1.7 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Bulgarian(s); adjective - Bulgarian
Ethnic divisions:
    Bulgarian 85.3%, Turk 8.5%, Gypsy 2.6%, Macedonian 2.5%, Armenian 0.3%,
    Russian 0.2%, other 0.6%
Religions:
    Bulgarian Orthodox 85%; Muslim 13%; Jewish 0.8%; Roman Catholic 0.5%; Uniate
    Catholic 0.2%; Protestant, Gregorian-Armenian, and other 0.5%
Languages:
    Bulgarian; secondary languages closely correspond to ethnic breakdown
Literacy:
    93% (male NA%, female NA%) age 15 and over can read and write (1970 est.)
Labor force:
    4,300,000; industry 33%, agriculture 20%, other 47% (1987)
Organized labor:
    Confederation of Independent Trade Unions of Bulgaria (KNSB); Edinstvo
    (Unity) People's Trade Union (splinter confederation from KNSB); Podkrepa
    (Support) Labor Confederation, legally registered in January 1990

:Bulgaria Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Bulgaria
Type:
    emerging democracy, diminishing Communist Party influence
Capital:
    Sofia
Administrative divisions:
    9 provinces (oblasti, singular - oblast); Burgas, Grad Sofiya, Khaskovo,
    Lovech, Mikhaylovgrad, Plovdiv, Razgrad, Sofiya, Varna
Independence:
    22 September 1908 (from Ottoman Empire)
Constitution:
    adopted 12 July 1991
Legal system:
    based on civil law system, with Soviet law influence; has accepted
    compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
National holiday:
    3 March (1878)
Executive branch:
    president, chairman of the Council of Ministers (premier), two deputy
    chairmen of the Council of Ministers, Council of Ministers
Legislative branch:
    unicameral National Assembly (Narodno Sobranie)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court; Constitutional Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Zhelyu ZHELEV (since 1 August 1990)
  Head of Government:
    Chairman of the Council of Ministers (Premier) Filip DIMITROV (since 8
    November 1991); Deputy Chairman of the Council of Ministers (Deputy Prime
    Minister) Stoyan GANEV (since 8 November 1991); Deputy Chairman of the
    Council of Ministers Nikolay VASILEV (since 8 November 1991)
Political parties and leaders:
  government:
    Union of Democratic Forces (UDF), Filip DIMITROV, chairman, consisting of
    United Democratic Center, Democratic Party, Radical Democratic Party,
    Christian Democratic Union, Alternative Social Liberal Party, Republican
    Party, Civic Initiative Movement, Union of the Repressed, and about a dozen
    other groups; Movement for Rights and Freedoms (pro-Muslim party) (MRF),
    Ahmed DOGAN, chairman, supports UDF but not officially in coalition with it
  opposition:
    Bulgarian Socialist Party (BSP), formerly Bulgarian Communist Party (BCP),
    Zhan VIDENOV, chairman
Suffrage:
    universalandcompulsoryatage 18
Elections:
  National Assembly:
    last held 13 October 1991; results - BSP 33%, UDF 34%, MRF 7.5%; seats -
    (240 total) BSP 106, UDF 110, Movement for Rights and Freedoms 24
  President:
    last held 12 January 1992; second round held 19 January 1992; results -
    Zhelyu ZHELEV was elected by popular vote
Communists:
    Bulgarian Socialist Party (BSP), formerly Bulgarian Communist Party (BCP),
    501,793 members; several small Communist parties

:Bulgaria Government

Other political or pressure groups:
    Ecoglasnost; Podkrepa (Support) Labor Confederation; Fatherland Union;
    Bulgarian Democratic Youth (formerly Communist Youth Union); Confederation
    of Independent Trade Unions of Bulgaria (KNSB); Nationwide Committee for
    Defense of National Interests; Peasant Youth League; Bulgarian Agrarian
    National Union - United (BZNS); Bulgarian Democratic Center; "Nikola Petkov"
    Bulgarian Agrarian National Union; Internal Macedonian Revolutionary
    Organization - Union of Macedonian Societies (IMRO-UMS); numerous regional,
    ethnic, and national interest groups with various agendas
Member of:
    BIS, CCC, CE, CSCE, EBRD, ECE, FAO, G-9, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, IIB, ILO,
    IMF, IMO, INMARSAT, IOC, ISO, ITU, LORCS, NACC, NSG, PCA, UN, UNCTAD,
    UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Ognyan PISHEV; Chancery at 1621 22nd Street NW, Washington, DC
    20008; telephone (202) 387-7969
  US:
    Ambassador Hugh Kenneth HILL; Embassy at 1 Alexander Stamboliski Boulevard,
    Sofia (mailing address is APO AE 09213-5740); telephone [359] (2) 88-48-01
    through 05; Embassy has no FAX machine
Flag:
    three equal horizontal bands of white (top), green, and red; the national
    emblem formerly on the hoist side of the white stripe has been removed - it
    contained a rampant lion within a wreath of wheat ears below a red
    five-pointed star and above a ribbon bearing the dates 681 (first Bulgarian
    state established) and 1944 (liberation from Nazi control)

:Bulgaria Economy

Overview:
    Growth in the lackluster Bulgarian economy fell to the 2% annual level in
    the 1980s. By 1990, Sofia's foreign debt had skyrocketed to over $10 billion
    - giving a debt-service ratio of more than 40% of hard currency earnings and
    leading the regime to declare a moratorium on its hard currency payments.
    The post-Communist government faces major problems of renovating an aging
    industrial plant; coping with worsening energy, food, and consumer goods
    shortages; keeping abreast of rapidly unfolding technological developments;
    investing in additional energy capacity (the portion of electric power from
    nuclear energy reached over one-third in 1990); and motivating workers, in
    part by giving them a share in the earnings of their enterprises. Bulgaria's
    new government, led by Prime Minister Filip Dimitrov, is strongly committed
    to economic reform. The previous government, even though dominated by former
    Communists, had taken the first steps toward dismantling the central
    planning system, bringing the economy back into balance, and reducing
    inflationary pressures. The program produced some encouraging early results,
    including eased restrictions on foreign investment, increased support from
    international financial institutions, and liberalized currency trading.
    Small entrepreneurs have begun to emerge and some privatization of small
    enterprises has taken place. The government has passed bills to privatize
    large state-owned enterprises and reform the banking system. Negotiations on
    an association agreement with the EC began in late 1991.
GNP:
    purchasing power equivalent - $36.4 billion, per capita $4,100; real growth
    rate --22% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    420% (1991 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    10% (1991 est.)
Budget:
    revenues NA; expenditures NA, including capital expenditures of $NA billion
    (1991)
Exports:
    $8.4 billion (f.o.b., 1990)
  commodities:
    machinery and equipment 55.3%; agricultural products 15.0%; manufactured
    consumer goods 10.0%; fuels, minerals, raw materials, and metals 18.4%;
    other 1.3% (1990)
  partners:
    former CMEA countries 70.6% (USSR 56.2%, Czechoslovakia 3.9%, Poland 2.5%);
    developed countries 13.6% (Germany 2.1%, Greece 1.2%); less developed
    countries 13.1% (Libya 5.8%, Iran 0.5%) (1990)
Imports:
    $9.6 billion (f.o.b., 1990)
  commodities:
    fuels, minerals, and raw materials 43.7%; machinery and equipment 45.2%;
    manufactured consumer goods 6.7%; agricultural products 3.8%; other 0.6%
  partners:
    former CMEA countries 70.9% (former USSR 52.7%, Poland 4.1%); developed
    countries 20.2% (Germany 5.0%, Austria 2.1%); less developed countries 7.2%
    (Libya 2.0%, Iran 0.7%)
External debt:
    $11.2 billion (1991)
Industrial production:
    growth rate --14.7% (1990); accounts for about 37% of GNP (1990)
Electricity:
    11,500,000 kW capacity; 45,000 million kWh produced, 5,040 kWh per capita
    (1990)

:Bulgaria Economy

Industries:
    machine building and metal working, food processing, chemicals, textiles,
    building materials, ferrous and nonferrous metals
Agriculture:
    accounts for 22% of GNP (1990); climate and soil conditions support
    livestock raising and the growing of various grain crops, oilseeds,
    vegetables, fruits, and tobacco; more than one-third of the arable land
    devoted to grain; world's fourth-largest tobacco exporter; surplus food
    producer
Illicit drugs:
    transshipment point for southwest Asian heroin transiting the Balkan route
Economic aid:
    donor - $1.6 billion in bilateral aid to non-Communist less developed
    countries (1956-89)
Currency:
    lev (plural - leva); 1 lev (Lv) = 100 stotinki
Exchange rates:
    leva (Lv) per US$1 - 17.18 (1 January 1992), 16.13 (March 1991), 0.7446
    (November 1990), 0.84 (1989), 0.82 (1988), 0.90 (1987); note - floating
    exchange rate since February 1991
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Bulgaria Communications

Railroads:
    4,300 km total, all government owned (1987); 4,055 km 1.435-meter standard
    gauge, 245 km narrow gauge; 917 km double track; 2,510 km electrified
Highways:
    36,908 km total; 33,535 km hard surface (including 242 km superhighways);
    3,373 km earth roads (1987)
Inland waterways:
    470 km (1987)
Pipelines:
    crude oil 193 km; petroleum products 418 km; natural gas 1,400 km (1986)
Ports:
    Burgas, Varna, Varna West; river ports are Ruse, Vidin, and Lom on the
    Danube
Merchant marine:
    110 ships (1,000 GRT and over) totaling 1,234,657 GRT/1,847,759 DWT;
    includes 2 short-sea passenger, 30 cargo, 2 container, 1 passenger-cargo
    training, 6 roll-on/roll-off, 15 petroleum tanker, 4 chemical carrier, 2
    railcar carrier, 48 bulk; Bulgaria owns 1 ship (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
    8,717 DWT operating under Liberian registry
Civil air:
    86 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    380 total, 380 usable; about 120 with permanent-surface runways; 20 with
    runways 2,440-3,659 m; 20 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    extensive radio relay; 2.5 million telephones; direct dialing to 36
    countries; phone density is 25 phones per 100 persons; 67% of Sofia
    households now have a phone (November 1988); broadcast stations - 20 AM, 15
    FM, and 29 TV, with 1 Soviet TV repeater in Sofia; 2.1 million TV sets
    (1990); 92% of country receives No. 1 television program (May 1990); 1
    satellite ground station using Intersputnik; INTELSAT is used through a
    Greek earth station

:Bulgaria Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Navy, Air and Air Defense Forces, Frontier Troops, Internal Troops
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 2,181,421; 1,823,678 fit for military service; 65,942 reach
    military age (19) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - 4.413 billion leva, 4.4% of GNP (1991); note -
    conversion of defense expenditures into US dollars using the current
    exchange rate could produce misleading results

:Burkina Geography

Total area:
    274,200 km2
Land area:
    273,800 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than Colorado
Land boundaries:
    3,192 km; Benin 306 km, Ghana 548 km, Ivory Coast 584 km, Mali 1,000 km,
    Niger 628 km, Togo 126 km
Coastline:
    none - landlocked
Maritime claims:
    none - landlocked
Disputes:
    the disputed international boundary between Burkina and Mali was submitted
    to the International Court of Justice (ICJ) in October 1983 and the ICJ
    issued its final ruling in December 1986, which both sides agreed to accept;
    Burkina and Mali are proceeding with boundary demarcation, including the
    tripoint with Niger
Climate:
    tropical; warm, dry winters; hot, wet summers
Terrain:
    mostly flat to dissected, undulating plains; hills in west and southeast
Natural resources:
    manganese, limestone, marble; small deposits of gold, antimony, copper,
    nickel, bauxite, lead, phosphates, zinc, silver
Land use:
    arable land 10%; permanent crops NEGL%; meadows and pastures 37%; forest and
    woodland 26%; other 27%, includes irrigated NEGL%
Environment:
    recent droughts and desertification severely affecting marginal agricultural
    activities, population distribution, economy; overgrazing; deforestation
Note:
    landlocked

:Burkina People

Population:
    9,653,672 (July 1992), growth rate 3.1% (1992)
Birth rate:
    49 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    16 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    --2 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    117 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    52 years male, 53 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    7.1 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Burkinabe (singular and plural); adjective - Burkinabe
Ethnic divisions:
    more than 50 tribes; principal tribe is Mossi (about 2.5 million); other
    important groups are Gurunsi, Senufo, Lobi, Bobo, Mande, and Fulani
Religions:
    indigenous beliefs about 65%, Muslim 25%, Christian (mainly Roman Catholic)
    10%
Languages:
    French (official); tribal languages belong to Sudanic family, spoken by 90%
    of the population
Literacy:
    18% (male 28%, female 9%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    3,300,000 residents; 30,000 are wage earners; agriculture 82%, industry 13%,
    commerce, services, and government 5%; 20% of male labor force migrates
    annually to neighboring countries for seasonal employment (1984); 44% of
    population of working age (1985)
Organized labor:
    four principal trade union groups represent less than 1% of population

:Burkina Government

Long-form name:
    Burkina Faso
Type:
    military; established by coup on 4 August 1983
Capital:
    Ouagadougou
Administrative divisions:
    30 provinces; Bam, Bazega, Bougouriba, Boulgou, Boulkiemde, Ganzourgou,
    Gnagna, Gourma, Houet, Kadiogo, Kenedougou, Komoe, Kossi, Kouritenga,
    Mouhoun, Namentenga, Naouri, Oubritenga, Oudalan, Passore, Poni, Sanguie,
    Sanmatenga, Seno, Sissili, Soum, Sourou, Tapoa, Yatenga, Zoundweogo
Independence:
    5 August 1960 (from France; formerly Upper Volta)
Constitution:
    June 1991
Legal system:
    based on French civil law system and customary law
National holiday:
    Anniversary of the Revolution, 4 August (1983)
Executive branch:
    President, Council of Ministers
Legislative branch:
    unicameral National Assembly (Assemblee Nationale) was dissolved on 25
    November 1980
Judicial branch:
    Appeals Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State and Head of Government:
    President Captain Blaise COMPAORE (since 15 October 1987)
Political parties and leaders:
    Organization for Popular Democracy (ODP/MT), ruling party; Coordination of
    Democratic Forces (CFD), composed of opposition parties
Suffrage:
    none
Elections:
    the National Assembly was dissolved 25 November 1980; presidential election
    held December 1991 and legislative election scheduled for 24 May 1992
Communists:
    small Communist party front group; some sympathizers
Other political or pressure groups:
    committees for the defense of the revolution, watchdog/political action
    groups throughout the country in both organizations and communities
Member of:
    ACCT, ACP, AfDB, CCC, CEAO, ECA, ECOWAS, Entente, FAO, FZ, G-77, GATT, IBRD,
    ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC,
    ITU, LORCS, NAM, OAU, OIC, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WADB, WCL,
    WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Paul Desire KABORE; Chancery at 2340 Massachusetts Avenue NW,
    Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 332-5577 or 6895
  US:
    Ambassador Edward P. BYRNN; Embassy at Avenue Raoul Follerau, Ouagadougou
    (mailing address is 01 B. P. 35, Ouagadougou); telephone [226] 30-67- 23
    through 25 and [226] 33-34-22; FAX [226] 31-23-68
Flag:
    two equal horizontal bands of red (top) and green with a yellow five-pointed
    star in the center; uses the popular pan-African colors of Ethiopia

:Burkina Economy

Overview:
    One of the poorest countries in the world, Burkina has a high population
    density, few natural resources, and relatively infertile soil. Economic
    development is hindered by a poor communications network within a landlocked
    country. Agriculture provides about 40% of GDP and is entirely of a
    subsistence nature. Industry, dominated by unprofitable
    government-controlled corporations, accounts for about 15% of GDP.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $2.9 billion, per capita $320 (1988); real growth
    rate 1.3% (1990 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    --0.5% (1989)
Unemployment rate:
    NA%
Budget:
    revenues $275 million; expenditures $287 million, including capital
    expenditures of $NA (1989)
Exports:
    $262 million (f.o.b., 1989)
  commodities:
    oilseeds, cotton, live animals, gold
  partners:
    EC 42% (France 30%, other 12%), Taiwan 17%, Ivory Coast 15% (1985)
Imports:
    $619 million (f.o.b., 1989)
  commodities:
    grain, dairy products, petroleum, machinery
  partners:
    EC 37% (France 23%, other 14%), Africa 31%, US 15% (1985)
External debt:
    $962 million (December 1990 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 5.7% (1990 est.), accounts for about 15% of GDP (1988)
Electricity:
    120,000 kW capacity; 320 million kWh produced, 40 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    cotton lint, beverages, agricultural processing, soap, cigarettes, textiles,
    gold
Agriculture:
    accounts for about 40% of GDP; cash crops - peanuts, shea nuts, sesame,
    cotton; food crops - sorghum, millet, corn, rice; livestock; not
    self-sufficient in food grains
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $294 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $2.9 billion;
    Communist countries (1970-89), $113 million
Currency:
    Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (plural - francs); 1 CFA franc (CFAF)
    = 100 centimes
Exchange rates:
    CFA francs (CFAF) per US$1 - 269.01 (January 1992), 282.11 (1991), 272.26
    (1990), 319.01 (1989), 297.85 (1988), 300.54 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Burkina Communications

Railroads:
    620 km total; 520 km Ouagadougou to Ivory Coast border and 100 km
    Ouagadougou to Kaya; all 1.00-meter gauge and single track
Highways:
    16,500 km total; 1,300 km paved, 7,400 km improved, 7,800 km unimproved
    (1985)
Civil air:
    2 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    48 total, 38 usable; 2 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 2 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 8 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    all services only fair; radio relay, wire, and radio communication stations
    in use; broadcast stations - 2 AM, 1 FM, 2 TV; 1 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT
    earth station

:Burkina Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Air Force, National Gendarmerie, National Police, Peoples' Militia
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 1,904,647; 971,954 fit for military service; no conscription
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $55 million, 2.7% of GDP (1988 est.)

:Burma Geography

Total area:
    678,500 km2
Land area:
    657,740 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than Texas
Land boundaries:
    5,876 km; Bangladesh 193 km, China 2,185 km, India 1,463 km, Laos 235 km,
    Thailand 1,800 km
Coastline:
    1,930 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    24 nm
  Continental shelf:
    edge of continental margin or 200 nm
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    tropical monsoon; cloudy, rainy, hot, humid summers (southwest monsoon, June
    to September); less cloudy, scant rainfall, mild temperatures, lower
    humidity during winter (northeast monsoon, December to April)
Terrain:
    central lowlands ringed by steep, rugged highlands
Natural resources:
    crude oil, timber, tin, antimony, zinc, copper, tungsten, lead, coal, some
    marble, limestone, precious stones, natural gas
Land use:
    arable land 15%; permanent crops 1%; meadows and pastures 1%; forest and
    woodland 49%; other 34%; includes irrigated 2%
Environment:
    subject to destructive earthquakes and cyclones; flooding and landslides
    common during rainy season (June to September); deforestation
Note:
    strategic location near major Indian Ocean shipping lanes

:Burma People

Population:
    42,642,418 (July 1992), growth rate 1.9% (1992)
Birth rate:
    29 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    10 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    68 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    57 years male, 61 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    3.8 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Burmese (singular and plural); adjective - Burmese
Ethnic divisions:
    Burman 68%, Shan 9%, Karen 7%, Rakhine 4%, Chinese 3%, Mon 2%, Indian 2%,
    other 5%
Religions:
    Buddhist 89%, Christian 4% (Baptist 3%, Roman Catholic 1%), Muslim 4%,
    animist beliefs 1%, other 2%
Languages:
    Burmese; minority ethnic groups have their own languages
Literacy:
    81% (male 89%, female 72%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    16,036,000; agriculture 65.2%, industry 14.3%, trade 10.1%, government 6.3%,
    other 4.1% (FY89 est.)
Organized labor:
    Workers' Asiayone (association), 1,800,000 members; Peasants' Asiayone,
    7,600,000 members

:Burma Government

Long-form name:
    Union of Burma; note - the local official name is Pyidaungzu Myanma
    Naingngandaw, which has been translated by the US Government as Union of
    Myanma and by the Burmese as Union of Myanmar
Type:
    military regime
Capital:
    Rangoon (sometimes translated as Yangon)
Administrative divisions:
    7 divisions* (yin-mya, singular - yin) and 7 states (pyine-mya, singular -
    pyine); Chin State, Irrawaddy*, Kachin State, Karan State, Kayah State,
    Magwe*, Mandalay*, Mon State, Pegu*, Rakhine State, Rangoon*, Sagaing*, Shan
    State, Tenasserim*
Independence:
    4 January 1948 (from UK)
Constitution:
    3 January 1974 (suspended since 18 September 1988)
Legal system:
    martial law in effect throughout most of the country; has not accepted
    compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 4 January (1948)
Executive branch:
    chairman of the State Law and Order Restoration Council, State Law and Order
    Restoration Council
Legislative branch:
    unicameral People's Assembly (Pyithu Hluttaw) was dissolved after the coup
    of 18 September 1988
Judicial branch:
    Council of People's Justices was abolished after the coup of 18 September
    1988
Leaders:
  Chief of State and Head of Government:
    Chairman of the State Law and Order Restoration Council Gen. THAN SHWE
    (since 23 April 1992)
Political parties and leaders:
    National Unity Party (NUP; proregime), THA KYAW; National League for
    Democracy (NLD), U AUNG SHWE; National Coalition of Union of Burma (NCGUB),
    SEIN WIN - consists of individuals legitimately elected but not recognized
    by military regime; fled to border area and joined with insurgents in
    December 1990 to form a parallel government
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  People's Assembly:
    last held 27 May 1990, but Assembly never convened; results - NLD 80%; seats
    - (485 total) NLD 396, the regime-favored NUP 10, other 79
Communists:
    several hundred (est.) in Burma Communist Party (BCP)
Other political or pressure groups:
    Kachin Independence Army (KIA), United Wa State Army (UWSA), Karen National
    Union (KNU) , several Shan factions, including the Shan United Army (SUA)
    (all ethnically based insurgent groups)
Member of:
    AsDB, CP, ESCAP, FAO, G-77, GATT, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, IDA, IFAD, IFC, ILO,
    IMF, IMO, INTERPOL, IOC, ITU, LORCS, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UPU, WHO, WMO

:Burma Government

Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador U THAUNG; Chancery at 2300 S Street NW, Washington, DC 20008;
    telephone (202) 332-9044 through 9046; there is a Burmese Consulate General
    in New York
  US:
    Ambassador (vacant); Deputy Chief of Mission, Charge d'Affaires Franklin P.
    HUDDLE, Jr.; Embassy at 581 Merchant Street, Rangoon (mailing address is GPO
    Box 521, AMEMB Box B, APO AP 96546); telephone [95] (1) 82055, 82181; FAX
    [95] (1) 80409
Flag:
    red with a blue rectangle in the upper hoist-side corner bearing, all in
    white, 14 five-pointed stars encircling a cogwheel containing a stalk of
    rice; the 14 stars represent the 14 administrative divisions

:Burma Economy

Overview:
    Burma is a poor Asian country, with a per capita GDP of about $500. The
    nation has been unable to achieve any substantial improvement in export
    earnings because of falling prices for many of its major commodity exports.
    For rice, traditionally the most important export, the drop in world prices
    has been accompanied by shrinking markets and a smaller volume of sales. In
    1985 teak replaced rice as the largest export and continues to hold this
    position. The economy is heavily dependent on the agricultural sector, which
    generates about 40% of GDP and provides employment for 65% of the work
    force. Burma has been largely isolated from international economic forces
    and has been trying to encourage foreign investment, so far with little
    success.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $22.2 billion, per capita $530; real growth rate
    5.6% (1991)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    40% (1991)
Unemployment rate:
    9.6% in urban areas (FY89 est.)
Budget:
    revenues $7.2 billion; expenditures $9.3 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $6 billion (1991)
Exports:
    $568 million
  commodities:
    teak, rice, oilseed, metals, rubber, gems
  partners:
    Southeast Asia, India, Japan, China, EC, Africa
Imports:
    $1.16 billion
  commodities:
    machinery, transport equipment, chemicals, food products
  partners:
    Japan, EC, China, Southeast Asia
External debt:
    $4.2 billion (1991)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 2.6% (FY90 est.); accounts for 10% of GDP
Electricity:
    950,000 kW capacity; 2,900 million kWh produced, 70 kWh per capita (1990)
Industries:
    agricultural processing; textiles and footwear; wood and wood products;
    petroleum refining; mining of copper, tin, tungsten, iron; construction
    materials; pharmaceuticals; fertilizer
Agriculture:
    accounts for 40% of GDP (including fish and forestry); self-sufficient in
    food; principal crops - paddy rice, corn, oilseed, sugarcane, pulses;
    world's largest stand of hardwood trees; rice and teak account for 55% of
    export revenues; fish catch of 740,000 metric tons (FY90)
Illicit drugs:
    world's largest illicit producer of opium poppy and minor producer of
    cannabis for the international drug trade; opium production is on the
    increase as growers respond to the collapse of Rangoon's antinarcotic
    programs
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $158 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $3.9 billion;
    Communist countries (1970-89), $424 million

:Burma Economy

Currency:
    kyat (plural - kyats); 1 kyat (K) = 100 pyas
Exchange rates:
    kyats (K) per US$1 - 6.0963 (January 1992), 6.2837 (1991), 6.3386 (1990),
    6.7049 (1989), 6.46 (1988), 6.6535 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    1 April - 31 March

:Burma Communications

Railroads:
    3,991 km total, all government owned; 3,878 km 1.000-meter gauge, 113 km
    narrow-gauge industrial lines; 362 km double track
Highways:
    27,000 km total; 3,200 km bituminous, 17,700 km improved earth or gravel,
    6,100 km unimproved earth
Inland waterways:
    12,800 km; 3,200 km navigable by large commercial vessels
Pipelines:
    crude oil 1,343 km; natural gas 330 km
Ports:
    Rangoon, Moulmein, Bassein
Merchant marine:
    71 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 1,036,018 GRT/1,514,121 DWT; includes
    3 passenger-cargo, 19 cargo, 5 refrigerated cargo, 3 vehicle carrier, 3
    container, 2 petroleum tanker, 6 chemical, 1 combination ore/oil, 27 bulk, 1
    combination bulk, 1 roll-on/roll-off
Civil air:
    17 major transport aircraft (including 3 helicopters)
Airports:
    85 total, 82 usable; 27 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 3 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 38 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    meets minimum requirements for local and intercity service; international
    service is good; 53,000 telephones (1986); radiobroadcast coverage is
    limited to the most populous areas; broadcast stations - 2 AM, 1 FM, 1 TV
    (1985); 1 Indian Ocean INTELSAT earth station

:Burma Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Navy, Air Force
Manpower availability:
    eligible 15-49, 21,447,878; of the 10,745,530 males 15-49, 5,759,840 are fit
    for military service; of the 10,702,348 females 15-49, 5,721,868 are fit for
    military service; 424,474 males and 410,579 females reach military age (18)
    annually; both sexes are liable for military service
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $1.28 billion, FY(91-92)

:Burundi Geography

Total area:
    27,830 km2
Land area:
    25,650 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than Maryland
Land boundaries:
    974 km; Rwanda 290 km, Tanzania 451 km, Zaire 233 km
Coastline:
    none - landlocked
Maritime claims:
    none - landlocked
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    temperate; warm; occasional frost in uplands
Terrain:
    mostly rolling to hilly highland; some plains
Natural resources:
    nickel, uranium, rare earth oxide, peat, cobalt, copper, platinum (not yet
    exploited), vanadium
Land use:
    arable land 43%; permanent crops 8%; meadows and pastures 35%; forest and
    woodland 2%; other 12%; includes irrigated NEGL%
Environment:
    soil exhaustion; soil erosion; deforestation
Note:
    landlocked; straddles crest of the Nile-Congo watershed

:Burundi People

Population:
    6,022,341 (July 1992), growth rate 3.2% (1992)
Birth rate:
    46 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    14 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    106 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    51 years male, 55 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    6.8 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Burundian(s); adjective - Burundi
Ethnic divisions:
    Africans - Hutu (Bantu) 85%, Tutsi (Hamitic) 14%, Twa (Pygmy) 1%; other
    Africans include about 70,000 refugees, mostly Rwandans and Zairians;
    non-Africans include about 3,000 Europeans and 2,000 South Asians
Religions:
    Christian about 67% (Roman Catholic 62%, Protestant 5%), indigenous beliefs
    32%, Muslim 1%
Languages:
    Kirundi and French (official); Swahili (along Lake Tanganyika and in the
    Bujumbura area)
Literacy:
    50% (male 61%, female 40%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    1,900,000 (1983 est.); agriculture 93.0%, government 4.0%, industry and
    commerce 1.5%, services 1.5%; 52% of population of working age (1985)
Organized labor:
    sole group is the Union of Burundi Workers (UTB); by charter, membership is
    extended to all Burundi workers (informally); active membership figures NA

:Burundi Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Burundi
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Bujumbura
Administrative divisions:
    15 provinces; Bubanza, Bujumbura, Bururi, Cankuzo, Cibitoke, Gitega, Karuzi,
    Kayanza, Kirundo, Makamba, Muramvya, Muyinga, Ngozi, Rutana, Ruyigi
Independence:
    1 July 1962 (from UN trusteeship under Belgian administration)
Constitution:
    20 November 1981; suspended following the coup of 3 September 1987; a
    constitutional committee was charged with drafting a new constitution
    created in February 1991; a referendum on the new constitution scheduled for
    March 1992
Legal system:
    based on German and Belgian civil codes and customary law; has not accepted
    compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 1 July (1962)
Executive branch:
    president; chairman of the Central Committee of the National Party of Unity
    and Progress (UPRONA), prime minister
Legislative branch:
    unicameral National Assembly (Assemblee Nationale) was dissolved following
    the coup of 3 September 1987; at an extraordinary party congress held from
    27 to 29 December 1990, the Central Committee of the National Party of Unity
    and Progress (UPRONA) replaced the Military Committee for National
    Salvation, and became the supreme governing body during the transition to
    constitutional government
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court (Cour Supreme)
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Major Pierre BUYOYA, President (since 9 September 1987)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Adrien SIBOMANA (since 26 October 1988)
Political parties and leaders:
    only party - National Party of Unity and Progress (UPRONA), Nicolas MAYUGI,
    secretary general; note - although Burundi is still officially a one-party
    state, at least four political parties were formed in 1991 in anticipation
    of proposed constitutional reform in 1992 - Burundi Democratic Front
    (FRODEBU), Organization of the People of Burundi (RPB), Socialist Party of
    Burundi (PSB), Movement for Peace and Democracy (MPD) - the Party for the
    Liberation of the Hutu People (PALIPEHUTU), formed in exile in the early
    1980s, is an ethnically based political party dedicated to majority rule;
    the government has long accused PALIPEHUTU of practicing devisive ethnic
    politics and fomenting violence against the state. PALIPEHUTU's exclusivist
    charter makes it an unlikely candidate for legalization under the new
    constitution that will require party membership open to all ethnic groups
Suffrage:
    universal adult at age NA
Elections:
  National Assembly:
    dissolved after the coup of 3 September 1987; note - The National Unity
    Charter outlining the principles for constitutional government was adopted
    by a national referendum on 5 February 1991

:Burundi Government

Member of:
    ACCT, ACP, AfDB, CCC, CEEAC, CEPGL, ECA, FAO, G-77, GATT, IBRD, ICAO, IDA,
    IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, INTERPOL, ITU, LORCS, NAM, OAU, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
    UNIDO, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Julien KAVAKURE; Chancery at Suite 212, 2233 Wisconsin Avenue NW,
    Washington, DC 20007; telephone (202) 342-2574
  US:
    Ambassador Cynthia Shepherd PERRY; B. P. 1720, Avenue des Etats-Unis,
    Bujumbura; telephone [257] (222) 454; FAX [257] (222) 926
Flag:
    divided by a white diagonal cross into red panels (top and bottom) and green
    panels (hoist side and outer side) with a white disk superimposed at the
    center bearing three red six-pointed stars outlined in green arranged in a
    triangular design (one star above, two stars below)

:Burundi Economy

Overview:
    A landlocked, resource-poor country in an early stage of economic
    development, Burundi is predominately agricultural with only a few basic
    industries. Its economic health depends on the coffee crop, which accounts
    for an average 90% of foreign exchange earnings each year. The ability to
    pay for imports therefore continues to rest largely on the vagaries of the
    climate and the international coffee market. As part of its economic reform
    agenda, launched in February 1991 with IMF and World Bank support, Burundi
    is trying to diversify its export agriculture capability and attract foreign
    investment in industry. Several state-owned coffee companies were privatized
    via public auction in September 1991.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $1.13 billion, per capita $200; real growth rate
    3.4% (1990 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    7.1% (1990 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    NA%
Budget:
    revenues $158 million; expenditures $204 million, including capital
    expenditures of $131 million (1989 est.)
Exports:
    $74.7 million (f.o.b., 1990)
  commodities:
    coffee 88%, tea, hides, and skins
  partners:
    EC 83%, US 5%, Asia 2%
Imports:
    $234.6 million (c.i.f., 1990)
  commodities:
    capital goods 31%, petroleum products 15%, foodstuffs, consumer goods
  partners:
    EC 57%, Asia 23%, US 3%
External debt:
    $1.0 billion (1990 est.)
Industrial production:
    real growth rate 5.1% (1986); accounts for about 10% of GDP
Electricity:
    55,000 kW capacity; 105 million kWh produced, 20 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    light consumer goods such as blankets, shoes, soap; assembly of imports;
    public works construction; food processing
Agriculture:
    accounts for 60% of GDP; 90% of population dependent on subsistence farming;
    marginally self-sufficient in food production; cash crops - coffee, cotton,
    tea; food crops - corn, sorghum, sweet potatoes, bananas, manioc; livestock
    - meat, milk, hides, and skins
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $71 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $10.2 billion; OPEC
    bilateral aid (1979-89), $32 million; Communist countries (1970-89), $175
    million
Currency:
    Burundi franc (plural - francs); 1 Burundi franc (FBu) = 100 centimes
Exchange rates:
    Burundi francs (FBu) per US$1 - 193.72 (January 1992), 181.51 (1991), 171.26
    (1990), 158.67 (1989), 140.40 (1988), 123. 56 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Burundi Communications

Highways:
    5,900 km total; 400 km paved, 2,500 km gravel or laterite, 3,000 km improved
    or unimproved earth
Inland waterways:
    Lake Tanganyika
Ports:
    Bujumbura (lake port) connects to transportation systems of Tanzania and
    Zaire
Civil air:
    no major transport aircraft
Airports:
    6 total, 6 usable; 1 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways over
    3,659 m; 1 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; none with runways 1,220 to 2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    sparse system of wire, radiocommunications, and low-capacity radio relay
    links; 8,000 telephones; broadcast stations - 2 AM, 2 FM, 1 TV; 1 Indian
    Ocean INTELSAT earth station

:Burundi Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army (includes naval and air units); paramilitary Gendarmerie
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 1,306,611; 681,050 fit for military service; 59,676 reach
    military age (16) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $28 million, 3.7% of GDP (1989)

:Cambodia Geography

Total area:
    181,040 km2
Land area:
    176,520 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than Oklahoma
Land boundaries:
    2,572 km; Laos 541 km, Thailand 803 km, Vietnam 1,228 km
Coastline:
    443 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    24 nm
  Continental shelf:
    200 nm
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    offshore islands and three sections of the boundary with Vietnam are in
    dispute; maritime boundary with Vietnam not defined
Climate:
    tropical; rainy, monsoon season (May to October); dry season (December to
    March); little seasonal temperature variation
Terrain:
    mostly low, flat plains; mountains in southwest and north
Natural resources:
    timber, gemstones, some iron ore, manganese, phosphates, hydropower
    potential
Land use:
    arable land 16%; permanent crops 1%; meadows and pastures 3%; forest and
    woodland 76%; other 4%; includes irrigated 1%
Environment:
    a land of paddies and forests dominated by Mekong River and Tonle Sap
Note:
    buffer between Thailand and Vietnam

:Cambodia People

Population:
    7,295,706 (July 1992), growth rate 2.1% (1992)
Birth rate:
    37 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    15 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    121 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    48 years male, 51 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    4.4 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Cambodian(s); adjective - Cambodian
Ethnic divisions:
    Khmer 90%, Chinese 5%, other 5%
Religions:
    Theravada Buddhism 95%, other 5%
Languages:
    Khmer (official), French
Literacy:
    35% (male 48%, female 22%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    2.5-3.0 million; agriculture 80% (1988 est.)
Organized labor:
    Kampuchea Federation of Trade Unions (FSC); under government control

:Cambodia Government

Long-form name:
    none
Type:
    currently administered by the Supreme National Council (SNC), a body set up
    under United Nations' auspices, in preparation for an internationally
    supervised election in 1993 and including representatives from each of the
    country's four political factions
Capital:
    Phnom Penh
Administrative divisions:
    19 provinces (khet, singular and plural) and 2 autonomous cities* Banteay
    Meanchey, Batdambang, Kampong Cham, Kampong Chhnang, Kampong Saom City*,
    Kampong Spoe, Kampong Thum, Kampot, Kandal, Kaoh Kong, Kracheh, Mondol Kiri,
    Phnom Phen City*, Pouthisat, Preah Vihear, Prey Veng, Rotanokiri,
    Siemreab-Otdar Meanchey, Stoeng Treng, Svay Rieng, Takev
Independence:
    8 November 1949 (from France)
Constitution:
    a new constitution will be drafted after the national election in 1993
National holiday:
    NGC - Independence Day, 17 April (1975); SOC - Liberation Day, 7 January
    (1979)
Executive branch:
    a twelve-member Supreme National Council (SNC), chaired by Prince NORODOM
    SIHANOUK, composed of representatives from each of the four political
    factions; faction names and delegation leaders are: State of Cambodia (SOC)
    - HUN SEN; Democratic Kampuchea (DK or Khmer Rouge) - KHIEU SAMPHAN; Khmer
    People's National Liberation Front (KPNLF) - SON SANN; National United Front
    for an Independent, Peaceful, Neutral, and Cooperative Cambodia (FUNCINPEC)
    - Prince NORODOM RANARIDDH
Legislative branch:
    pending a national election in 1993, the incumbent SOC faction's National
    Assembly is the only functioning national legislative body
Judicial branch:
    pending a national election in 1993, the incumbent SOC faction's Supreme
    People's Court is the only functioning national judicial body
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    SNC - Chairman Prince NORODOM SIHANOUK, under United Nations's supervision
  Head of Government:
    NGC - vacant, formerly held by SON SANN (since July 1982); will be
    determined following the national election in 1993; SOC - Chairman of the
    Council of Ministers HUN SEN (since 14 January 1985)
Political parties and leaders:
    Democratic Kampuchea (DK, also known as the Khmer Rouge) under KHIEU
    SAMPHAN; Cambodian Pracheachon Party or Cambodian People's Party (CPP) (name
    changed and HENG SAMRIN replaced in October 1991) under CHEA SIM; Khmer
    People's National Liberation Front (KPNLF) under SON SANN; National United
    Front for an Independent, Neutral, Peaceful, and Cooperative Cambodia
    (FUNCINPEC) under Prince NORODOM RANNARIDH
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
    UN-supervised election for a 120-member constituent assembly based on
    proportional representation within each province will be held nine months
    after UN-organized voter registration is complete; the election is not
    anticipated before April 1993; the assembly will draft and approve a
    constitution and then transform itself into a legislature that will create a
    new Cambodian Government

:Cambodia Government

Member of:
    AsDB, CP, ESCAP, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, IDA, ILO, IMF, IMO, INTERPOL,
    ITU, LORCS, NAM, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    the Supreme National Council (SNC) represents Cambodia in international
    organizations - it filled UN seat in September 1991
  US:
    Charles TWINNING is the US representative to Cambodia
Flag:
    SNC - blue background with white map of Cambodia in middle; SOC - two equal
    horizontal bands of red (top) and blue with a gold stylized five-towered
    temple representing Angkor Wat in the center

:Cambodia Economy

Overview:
    Cambodia is a desperately poor country whose economic development has been
    stymied by deadly political infighting. The economy is based on agriculture
    and related industries. Over the past decade Cambodia has been slowly
    recovering from its near destruction by war and political upheaval. The food
    situation remains precarious; during the 1980s famine was averted only
    through international relief. In 1986 the production level of rice, the
    staple food crop, was able to meet only 80% of domestic needs. The biggest
    success of the nation's recovery program has been in new rubber plantings
    and in fishing. Industry, other than rice processing, is almost nonexistent.
    Foreign trade has been primarily with the former USSR and Vietnam, and both
    trade and foreign aid are being adversely affected by the breakup of the
    USSR. Statistical data on the economy continue to be sparse and unreliable.
    Foreign aid from the former USSR and Eastern Europe has virtually stopped.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $930 million, per capita $130; real growth rate
    NA (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    53% (1990 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    NA%
Budget:
    revenues $178 million expenditures $NA, including capital expenditures of
    $NA (1991)
Exports:
    $32 million (f.o.b., 1988)
  commodities:
    natural rubber, rice, pepper, wood
  partners:
    Vietnam, USSR, Eastern Europe, Japan, India
Imports:
    $147 million (c.i.f., 1988)
  commodities:
    international food aid; fuels, consumer goods, machinery
  partners:
    Vietnam, USSR, Eastern Europe, Japan, India
External debt:
    $600 million (1989)
Industrial production:
    growth rate NA%
Electricity:
    140,000 kW capacity; 200 million kWh produced, 30 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    rice milling, fishing, wood and wood products, rubber, cement, gem mining
Agriculture:
    mainly subsistence farming except for rubber plantations; main crops - rice,
    rubber, corn; food shortages - rice, meat, vegetables, dairy products,
    sugar, flour
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $725 million; Western (non-US
    countries) (1970-89), $300 million; Communist countries (1970-89), $1.8
    billion
Currency:
    riel (plural - riels); 1 riel (CR) = 100 sen
Exchange rates:
    riels (CR) per US$1 - 714 (May 1992), 500 (December 1991), 560 (1990),
    159.00 (1988), 100.00 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Cambodia Communications

Railroads:
    612 km 1.000-meter gauge, government owned
Highways:
    13,351 km total; 2,622 km bituminous; 7,105 km crushed stone, gravel, or
    improved earth; 3,624 km unimproved earth; some roads in disrepair
Inland waterways:
    3,700 km navigable all year to craft drawing 0.6 meters; 282 km navigable to
    craft drawing 1.8 meters
Ports:
    Kampong Saom, Phnom Penh
Airports:
    16 total, 8 usable; 5 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways over
    3,659 m; 2 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 4 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    service barely adequate for government requirements and virtually
    nonexistent for general public; international service limited to Vietnam and
    other adjacent countries; broadcast stations - 1 AM, no FM, 1 TV

:Cambodia Defense Forces

Branches:
    SOC - Cambodian People's Armed Forces (CPAF); Communist resistance forces -
    National Army of Democratic Kampuchea (Khmer Rouge); non-Communist
    resistance forces - Armee National Kampuchea Independent (ANKI), which is
    sometimes anglicized as National Army of Independent Cambodia (NAIC), and
    Khmer People's National Liberation Armed Forces (KPNLAF) - under the Paris
    peace agreement of October 1991, all four factions are to observe a
    cease-fire and prepare for UN-supervised cantonment, disarmament, and 70%
    demobilization before the election, with the fate of the remaining 30% to be
    determined by the newly elected government - the United Nations Transitional
    Authority in Cambodia (UNTAC) will verify the cease-fire and disarm the
    combatants
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 1,877,339; 1,032,102 fit for military service; 61,807 reach
    military age (18) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $NA, NA% of GDP

:Cameroon Geography

Total area:
    475,440 km2
Land area:
    469,440 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than California
Land boundaries:
    4,591 km; Central African Republic 797 km, Chad 1,094 km, Congo 523 km,
    Equatorial Guinea 189 km, Gabon 298 km, Nigeria 1,690 km
Coastline:
    402 km
Maritime claims:
  Territorial sea:
    50 nm
Disputes:
    demarcation of international boundaries in Lake Chad, the lack of which has
    led to border incidents in the past, is completed and awaiting ratification
    by Cameroon, Chad, Niger, and Nigeria; boundary commission created with
    Nigeria to discuss unresolved land and maritime boundaries - has not yet
    convened
Climate:
    varies with terrain from tropical along coast to semiarid and hot in north
Terrain:
    diverse, with coastal plain in southwest, dissected plateau in center,
    mountains in west, plains in north
Natural resources:
    crude oil, bauxite, iron ore, timber, hydropower potential
Land use:
    arable land 13%; permanent crops 2%; meadows and pastures 18%; forest and
    woodland 54%; other 13%; includes irrigated NEGL%
Environment:
    recent volcanic activity with release of poisonous gases; deforestation;
    overgrazing; desertification
Note:
    sometimes referred to as the hinge of Africa

:Cameroon People

Population:
    12,658,439 (July 1992), growth rate 3.3% (1992)
Birth rate:
    44 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    11 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    81 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    55 years male, 60 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    6.4 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Cameroonian(s); adjective - Cameroonian
Ethnic divisions:
    over 200 tribes of widely differing background; Cameroon Highlanders 31%,
    Equatorial Bantu 19%, Kirdi 11%, Fulani 10%, Northwestern Bantu 8%, Eastern
    Nigritic 7%, other African 13%, non-African less than 1%
Religions:
    indigenous beliefs 51%, Christian 33%, Muslim 16%
Languages:
    English and French (official), 24 major African language groups
Literacy:
    54% (male 66%, female 43%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    NA; agriculture 74.4%, industry and transport 11.4%, other services 14.2%
    (1983); 50% of population of working age (15-64 years) (1985)
Organized labor:
    under 45% of wage labor force

:Cameroon Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Cameroon
Type:
    unitary republic; multiparty presidential regime (opposition parties
    legalized 1990)
Capital:
    Yaounde
Administrative divisions:
    10 provinces; Adamaoua, Centre, Est, Extreme-Nord, Littoral, Nord,
    Nord-Ouest, Ouest, Sud, Sud-Ouest
Independence:
    1 January 1960 (from UN trusteeship under French administration; formerly
    French Cameroon)
Constitution:
    20 May 1972
Legal system:
    based on French civil law system, with common law influence; has not
    accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
National holiday:
    National Day, 20 May (1972)
Executive branch:
    president, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    unicameral National Assembly (Assemblee Nationale)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Paul BIYA (since 6 November 1982)
  Head of Government:
    interim Prime Minister Sadou HAYATOU (since 25 April 1991)
Political parties and leaders:
    Cameroon People's Democratic Movement (RDPC), Paul BIYA, president, is
    government-controlled and was formerly the only party; numerous small
    parties formed since opposition parties were legalized in 1990
Suffrage:
    universal at age 20
Elections:
  National Assembly:
    next to be held 1 March 1992
  President:
    last held 24 April 1988 (next to be held April 1993); results - President
    Paul BIYA reelected without opposition
Other political or pressure groups:
    NA
Member of:
    ACCT (associate), ACP, AfDB, BDEAC, CCC, CEEAC, ECA, FAO, FZ, G-19, G-77,
    GATT, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INMARSAT,
    INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, ITU, LORCS, NAM, OAU, OIC, PCA, UDEAC, UN, UNCTAD,
    UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Paul PONDI; Chancery at 2349 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington,
    DC 20008; telephone (202) 265-8790 through 8794
  US:
    Ambassador Frances D. COOK; Embassy at Rue Nachtigal, Yaounde (mailing
    address is B. P. 817, Yaounde); telephone [237] 234014; FAX [237] 230753;
    there is a US Consulate General in Douala

:Cameroon Government

Flag:
    three equal vertical bands of green (hoist side), red, and yellow with a
    yellow five-pointed star centered in the red band; uses the popular
    pan-African colors of Ethiopia

:Cameroon Economy

Overview:
    Because of its offshore oil resources, Cameroon has one of the highest
    incomes per capita in tropical Africa. Still, it faces many of the serious
    problems facing other underdeveloped countries, such as political
    instability, a top-heavy civil service, and a generally unfavorable climate
    for business enterprise. The development of the oil sector led rapid
    economic growth between 1970 and 1985. Growth came to an abrupt halt in 1986
    precipitated by steep declines in the prices of major exports: coffee,
    cocoa, and petroleum. Export earnings were cut by almost one-third, and
    inefficiencies in fiscal management were exposed. In 1990-92, with support
    from the IMF and World Bank, the government has begun to introduce reforms
    designed to spur business investment, increase efficiency in agriculture,
    and recapitalize the nation's banks. Nationwide strikes organized by
    opposition parties in 1991, however, undermined these efforts.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $11.5 billion, per capita $1,040; real growth
    rate 0.7% (1990 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    8.6% (FY88)
Unemployment rate:
    25% (1990 est.)
Budget:
    revenues $1.2 billion; expenditures $1.8 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $NA million (FY89)
Exports:
    $2.1 billion (f.o.b., 1990 est.)
  commodities:
    petroleum products 56%, coffee, cocoa, timber, manufactures
  partners:
    EC (particularly France) about 50%, US 10%
Imports:
    $2.1 billion (c.i.f., 1990 est.)
  commodities:
    machines and electrical equipment, transport equipment, chemical products,
    consumer goods
  partners:
    France 41%, Germany 9%, US 4%
External debt:
    $4.9 billion (December 1989 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate - 6.4% (FY87); accounts for 30% of GDP
Electricity:
    755,000 kW capacity; 2,940 million kWh produced, 270 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    crude oil products, food processing, light consumer goods, textiles,
    sawmills
Agriculture:
    the agriculture and forestry sectors provide employment for the majority of
    the population, contributing nearly 25% to GDP and providing a high degree
    of self-sufficiency in staple foods; commercial and food crops include
    coffee, cocoa, timber, cotton, rubber, bananas, oilseed, grains, livestock,
    root starches
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $440 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $4.5 billion; OPEC
    bilateral aid (1979-89), $29 million; Communist countries (1970-89), $125
    million

:Cameroon Economy

Currency:
    Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (plural - francs); 1 CFA franc (CFAF)
    = 100 centimes
Exchange rates:
    Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (CFAF) per US$1 - 269.01 (January
    1992), 282.11 (1991), 272.26 (1990), 319.01 (1989), 297.85 (1988), 300.54
    (1987)
Fiscal year:
    1 July - 30 June

:Cameroon Communications

Railroads:
    1,003 km total; 858 km 1.000-meter gauge, 145 km 0.600-meter gauge
Highways:
    about 65,000 km total; includes 2,682 km paved, 32,318 km gravel and
    improved earth, and 30,000 km of unimproved earth
Inland waterways:
    2,090 km; of decreasing importance
Ports:
    Douala
Merchant marine:
    2 cargo ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 24,122 GRT/33,509 DWT
Civil air:
    5 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    56 total, 50 usable; 10 with permanent-surface runways; 1 with runways over
    3,659 m; 5 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 21 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    good system of open wire, cable, troposcatter, and radio relay; 26,000
    telephones; broadcast stations - 11 AM, 11 FM, 1 TV; 2 Atlantic Ocean
    INTELSAT earth stations

:Cameroon Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Navy (including naval infantry), Air Force; National Gendarmerie,
    Presidential Guards
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 2,753,059; 1,385,706 fit for military service; 120,011 reach
    military age (18) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $219 million, 1.7% of GDP (1990 est.)

:Canada Geography

Total area:
    9,976,140 km2
Land area:
    9,220,970 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than US
Land boundaries:
    8,893 km with US (includes 2,477 km with Alaska)
Coastline:
    243,791 km
Maritime claims:
  Continental shelf:
    200 m (depth) or to depth of exploitation
  Exclusive fishing zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    maritime boundary disputes with the US
Climate:
    varies from temperate in south to subarctic and arctic in north
Terrain:
    mostly plains with mountains in west and lowlands in southeast
Natural resources:
    nickel, zinc, copper, gold, lead, molybdenum, potash, silver, fish, timber,
    wildlife, coal, crude oil, natural gas
Land use:
    arable land 5%; permanent crops NEGL%; meadows and pastures 3%; forest and
    woodland 35%; other 57%; includes NEGL% irrigated
Environment:
    80% of population concentrated within 160 km of US border; continuous
    permafrost in north a serious obstacle to development
Note:
    second-largest country in world (after Russia); strategic location between
    Russia and US via north polar route

:Canada People

Population:
    27,351,509 (July 1992), growth rate 1.3% (1992)
Birth rate:
    14 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    7 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    6 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    7 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    74 years male, 81 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    1.8 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Canadian(s); adjective - Canadian
Ethnic divisions:
    British Isles origin 40%, French origin 27%, other European 20%, indigenous
    Indian and Eskimo 1.5%
Religions:
    Roman Catholic 46%, United Church 16%, Anglican 10%
Languages:
    English and French (both official)
Literacy:
    99% (male NA%, female NA%) age 15 and over can read and write (1981 est.)
Labor force:
    13,380,000; services 75%, manufacturing 14%, agriculture 4%, construction
    3%, other 4% (1988)
Organized labor:
    30.6% of labor force; 39.6% of nonagricultural paid workers

:Canada Government

Long-form name:
    none
Type:
    confederation with parliamentary democracy
Capital:
    Ottawa
Administrative divisions:
    10 provinces and 2 territories*; Alberta, British Columbia, Manitoba, New
    Brunswick, Newfoundland, Northwest Territories*, Nova Scotia, Ontario,
    Prince Edward Island, Quebec, Saskatchewan, Yukon Territory*
Independence:
    1 July 1867 (from UK)
Constitution:
    amended British North America Act 1867 patriated to Canada 17 April 1982;
    charter of rights and unwritten customs
Legal system:
    based on English common law, except in Quebec, where civil law system based
    on French law prevails; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with
    reservations
National holiday:
    Canada Day, 1 July (1867)
Executive branch:
    British monarch, governor general, prime minister, deputy prime minister,
    Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    bicameral Parliament (Parlement) consists of an upper house or Senate
    (Senat) and a lower house or House of Commons (Chambre des Communes)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952), represented by Governor General
    Raymond John HNATSHYN (since 29 January 1990)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister (Martin) Brian MULRONEY (since 4 September 1984); Deputy
    Prime Minister Donald Frank MAZANKOWSKI (since June 1986)
Political parties and leaders:
    Progressive Conservative Party, Brian MULRONEY; Liberal Party, Jean
    CHRETIEN; New Democratic Party, Audrey McLAUGHLIN
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  House of Commons:
    last held 21 November 1988 (next to be held by November 1993); results -
    Progressive Conservative Party 43.0%, Liberal Party 32%, New Democratic
    Party 20%, other 5%; seats - (295 total) Progressive Conservative Party 159,
    Liberal Party 80, New Democratic Party 44, independents 12
Communists:
    3,000
Member of:
    ACCT, AfDB, AG (observer), APEC, AsDB, Australia Group, BIS, C, CCC, CDB,
    COCOM, CP, CSCE, EBRD, ECE, ECLAC, FAO, G-7, G-8, G-10, GATT, IADB, IAEA,
    IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INMARSAT,
    INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, LORCS, MTCR, NACC, NATO, NEA, NSG,
    OAS, OECD, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNDOF, UNESCO, UNFICYP, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIIMOG,
    UNTSO, UPU, WCL, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC

:Canada Government

Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Derek BURNEY; Chancery at 501 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington,
    DC 20001; telephone (202) 682-1740; there are Canadian Consulates General in
    Atlanta, Boston, Buffalo, Chicago, Cleveland, Dallas, Detroit, Los Angeles,
    Minneapolis, New York, Philadelphia, San Francisco, and Seattle
  US:
    Ambassador Peter TEELEY; Embassy at 100 Wellington Street, K1P 5T1, Ottawa
    (mailing address is P. O. Box 5000, Ogdensburg, NY 13669-0430); telephone
    (613) 238-5335 or (613) 238-4470; FAX (613) 238-5720; there are US
    Consulates General in Calgary, Halifax, Montreal, Quebec, Toronto, and
    Vancouver
Flag:
    three vertical bands of red (hoist side), white (double width, square), and
    red with a red maple leaf centered in the white band

:Canada Economy

Overview:
    As an affluent, high-tech industrial society, Canada today closely resembles
    the US in per capita output, market-oriented economic system, and pattern of
    production. Since World War II the impressive growth of the manufacturing,
    mining, and service sectors has transformed the nation from a largely rural
    economy into one primarily industrial and urban. In the 1980s, Canada
    registered one of the highest rates of real growth among the OECD nations,
    averaging about 3.2%. With its great natural resources, skilled labor force,
    and modern capital plant, Canada has excellent economic prospects. However,
    the continuing constitutional impasse between English- and French-speaking
    areas has observers discussing a possible split in the confederation;
    foreign investors are becoming edgy.
GDP:
    purchasing power equivalent - $521.5 billion, per capita $19,400; real
    growth rate -1.1% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    4.2% (November 1991, annual rate)
Unemployment rate:
    10.3% (November 1991)
Budget:
    revenues $111.8 billion; expenditures $138.3 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $NA (FY90 est.)
Exports:
    $124.0 billion (f.o.b., 1991)
  commodities:
    newsprint, wood pulp, timber, crude petroleum, machinery, natural gas,
    aluminum, motor vehicles and parts; telecommunications equipment
  partners:
    US, Japan, UK, Germany, South Korea, Netherlands, China
Imports:
    $118 billion (c.i.f., 1991)
  commodities:
    crude petroleum, chemicals, motor vehicles and parts, durable consumer
    goods, electronic computers; telecommunications equipment and parts
  partners:
    US, Japan, UK, Germany, France, Mexico, Taiwan, South Korea
External debt:
    $247 billion (1987)
Industrial production:
    growth rate -3.8% (August 1991); accounts for 34% of GDP
Electricity:
    106,464,000 kW capacity; 479,600 million kWh produced, 17,872 kWh per capita
    (1991)
Industries:
    processed and unprocessed minerals, food products, wood and paper products,
    transportation equipment, chemicals, fish products, petroleum and natural
    gas
Agriculture:
    accounts for about 3% of GDP; one of the world's major producers and
    exporters of grain (wheat and barley); key source of US agricultural
    imports; large forest resources cover 35% of total land area; commercial
    fisheries provide annual catch of 1.5 million metric tons, of which 75% is
    exported
Illicit drugs:
    illicit producer of cannabis for the domestic drug market; use of
    hydroponics technology permits growers to plant large quantities of
    high-quality marijuana indoors; growing role as a transit point for heroin
    and cocaine entering the US market

:Canada Economy

Economic aid:
    donor - ODA and OOF commitments (1970-89), $7.2 billion
Currency:
    Canadian dollar (plural - dollars); 1 Canadian dollar (Can$) = 100 cents
Exchange rates:
    Canadian dollars (Can$) per US$1 - 1.1565 (January 1992), 1.1457 (1991),
    1.1668 (1990), 1.1840 (1989), 1.2307 (1988), 1.3260 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    1 April - 31 March

:Canada Communications

Railroads:
    93,544 km total; two major transcontinental freight railway systems -
    Canadian National (government owned) and Canadian Pacific Railway; passenger
    service - VIA (government operated)
Highways:
    884,272 km total; 712,936 km surfaced (250,023 km paved), 171,336 km earth
Inland waterways:
    3,000 km, including Saint Lawrence Seaway
Pipelines:
    crude and refined oil 23,564 km; natural gas 74,980 km
Ports:
    Halifax, Montreal, Quebec, Saint John (New Brunswick), Saint John's
    (Newfoundland), Toronto, Vancouver
Merchant marine:
    70 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 500,904 GRT/727,118 DWT; includes 1
    passenger, 3 short-sea passenger, 2 passenger-cargo, 10 cargo, 2 railcar
    carrier, 1 refrigerated cargo, 8 roll-on/roll-off, 1 container, 28 petroleum
    tanker, 5 chemical tanker, 1 specialized tanker, 8 bulk; note - does not
    include ships used exclusively in the Great Lakes
Civil air:
    636 major transport aircraft; Air Canada is the major carrier
Airports:
    1,416 total, 1,168 usable; 455 with permanent-surface runways; 4 with
    runways over 3,659 m; 30 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 338 with runways
    1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    excellent service provided by modern media; 18.0 million telephones;
    broadcast stations - 900 AM, 29 FM, 53 (1,400 repeaters) TV; 5 coaxial
    submarine cables; over 300 earth stations operating in INTELSAT (including 4
    Atlantic Ocean and 1 Pacific Ocean) and domestic systems

:Canada Defense Forces

Branches:
    Canadian Armed Forces (including Mobile Command, Maritime Command, Air
    Command, Communications Command, Canadian Forces Europe, Training Commands),
    Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP)
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 7,366,675; 6,387,459 fit for military service; 190,752 reach
    military age (17) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $11.4 billion, 1.7% of GDP (FY91); $10.5 billion,
    NA% of GDP (FY 92)

:Cape Verde Geography

Total area:
    4,030 km2
Land area:
    4,030 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than Rhode Island
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    965 km
Maritime claims:
    (measured from claimed archipelagic baselines)
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    temperate; warm, dry, summer; precipitation very erratic
Terrain:
    steep, rugged, rocky, volcanic
Natural resources:
    salt, basalt rock, pozzolana, limestone, kaolin, fish
Land use:
    arable land 9%; permanent crops NEGL%; meadows and pastures 6%; forest and
    woodland NEGL%; other 85%; includes irrigated 1%
Environment:
    subject to prolonged droughts; harmattan wind can obscure visibility;
    volcanically and seismically active; deforestation; overgrazing
Note:
    strategic location 500 km from African coast near major north-south sea
    routes; important communications station; important sea and air refueling
    site

:Cape Verde People

Population:
    398,276 (July 1992), growth rate 3.0% (1992)
Birth rate:
    48 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    10 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    - 8 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    61 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    60 years male, 64 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    6.5 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Cape Verdean(s); adjective - Cape Verdean
Ethnic divisions:
    Creole (mulatto) about 71%, African 28%, European 1%
Religions:
    Roman Catholicism fused with indigenous beliefs
Languages:
    Portuguese and Crioulo, a blend of Portuguese and West African words
Literacy:
    66% (male NA%, female NA%) age 15 and over can read and write (1989 est.)
Labor force:
    102,000 (1985 est.); agriculture (mostly subsistence) 57%, services 29%,
    industry 14% (1981); 51% of population of working age (1985)
Organized labor:
    Trade Unions of Cape Verde Unity Center (UNTC-CS)

:Cape Verde Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Cape Verde
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Praia
Administrative divisions:
    14 districts (concelhos, singular - concelho); Boa Vista, Brava, Fogo, Maio,
    Paul, Praia, Porto Novo, Ribeira Grande, Sal, Santa Catarina, Santa Cruz,
    Sao Nicolau, Sao Vicente, Tarrafal
Independence:
    5 July 1975 (from Portugal)
Constitution:
    7 September 1980; amended 12 February 1981, December 1988, and 28 September
    1990 (legalized opposition parties)
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 5 July (1975)
Executive branch:
    president, prime minister, deputy minister, secretaries of state, Council of
    Ministers (cabinet)
Legislative branch:
    unicameral People's National Assembly (Assembleia Nacional Popular)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Tribunal of Justice (Supremo Tribunal de Justia)
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Antonio Monteiro MASCARENHAS (since 22 March 1991)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Carlos VEIGA (since 13 January 1991)
Political parties and leaders:
    Movement for Democracy (MPD), Prime Minister Carlos VEIGA, founder and
    chairman; African Party for Independence of Cape Verde (PAICV), Pedro Verona
    Rodrigues PIRES, chairman
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  People's National Assembly:
    last held 13 January 1991 (next to be held January 1996); results - percent
    of vote by party NA; seats - (79 total) MPD 56, PAICV 23; note - this
    multiparty Assembly election ended 15 years of single-party rule
  President:
    last held 17 February 1991 (next to be held February 1996); results -
    Antonio Monteiro MASCARENHAS (MPD) received 72.6% of vote
Member of:
    ACP, AfDB, ECA, ECOWAS, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, IDA, IFAD, ILO, IMF, IMO,
    INTERPOL, IOM (observer), ITU, LORCS, NAM, OAU, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO,
    UPU, WCL, WHO, WMO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Carlos Alberto Santos SILVA; Chancery at 3415 Massachusetts
    Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20007; telephone (202) 965-6820; there is a Cape
    Verdean Consulate General in Boston
  US:
    Ambassador Francis T. (Terry) McNAMARA; Embassy at Rua Hoji Ya Henda Yenna
    81, Praia (mailing address is C. P. 201, Praia); telephone [238] 61-43-63 or
    61-42-53; FAX [238] 61-13-55

:Cape Verde Government

Flag:
    two equal horizontal bands of yellow (top) and green with a vertical red
    band on the hoist side; in the upper portion of the red band is a black
    five-pointed star framed by two corn stalks and a yellow clam shell; uses
    the popular pan-African colors of Ethiopia; similar to the flag of
    Guinea-Bissau, which is longer and has an unadorned black star centered in
    the red band

:Cape Verde Economy

Overview:
    Cape Verde's low per capita GDP reflects a poor natural resource base, a
    17-year drought, and a high birthrate. The economy is service oriented, with
    commerce, transport, and public services accounting for 65% of GDP during
    the period 1985-88. Although nearly 70% of the population lives in rural
    areas, agriculture's share of GDP is only 16%; the fishing sector accounts
    for 4%. About 90% of food must be imported. The fishing potential, mostly
    lobster and tuna, is not fully exploited. In 1988 fishing represented only
    3.5% of GDP. Cape Verde annually runs a high trade deficit, financed by
    remittances from emigrants and foreign aid. Economic reforms launched by the
    new democratic government in February 1991 are aimed at developing the
    private sector and attracting foreign investment to diversify the economy.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $310 million, per capita $800; real growth rate
    4% (1990 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    10% (1990 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    25% (1988)
Budget:
    revenues $98.3 million; expenditures $138.4 million, including capital
    expenditures of $NA (1988 est.)
Exports:
    $10.9 million (f.o.b., 1989 est.)
  commodities:
    fish, bananas, salt
  partners:
    Portugal 40%, Algeria 31%, Angola, Netherlands (1990 est.)
Imports:
    $107.8 million (c.i.f., 1989)
  commodities:
    petroleum, foodstuffs, consumer goods, industrial products
  partners:
    Sweden 33%, Spain 11%, Germany 5%, Portugal 3%, France 3%, Netherlands, US
    (1990 est.)
External debt:
    $150 million (December 1990 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 18% (1988 est.); accounts for 7% of GDP
Electricity:
    15,000 kW capacity; 15 million kWh produced, 40 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    fish processing, salt mining, clothing factories, ship repair, construction
    materials, food and beverage production
Agriculture:
    accounts for 16% of GDP; largely subsistence farming; bananas are the only
    export crop; other crops - corn, beans, sweet potatoes, coffee; growth
    potential of agricultural sector limited by poor soils and limited rainfall;
    annual food imports required; fish catch provides for both domestic
    consumption and small exports
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY75-89), $88 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $537 million; OPEC
    bilateral aid (1979-89), $12 million; Communist countries (1970-89), $36
    million
Currency:
    Cape Verdean escudo (plural - escudos); 1 Cape Verdean escudo (CVEsc) = 100
    centavos

:Cape Verde Economy

Exchange rates:
    Cape Verdean escudos (CVEsc) per US$1 - 71.28 (March 1992), 71.41 (1991),
    64.10 (November 1990), 74.86 (December 1989), 72.01 (1988), 72.5 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Cape Verde Communications

Ports:
    Mindelo, Praia
Merchant marine:
    7 cargo ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 11,717 GRT/19,000 DWT
Civil air:
    3 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    6 total, 6 usable; 6 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways over
    3,659 m; 1 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 2 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    interisland radio relay system, high-frequency radio to Senegal and
    Guinea-Bissau; over 1,700 telephones; broadcast stations - 1 AM, 6 FM, 1 TV;
    2 coaxial submarine cables; 1 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT earth station

:Cape Verde Defense Forces

Branches:
    People's Revolutionary Armed Forces (FARP) - Army and Navy are separate
    components of FARP; Security Service
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 72,916; 43,010 fit for military service
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $NA, NA% of GDP

:Cayman Islands Geography

Total area:
    260 km2
Land area:
    260 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly less than 1.5 times the size of Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    160 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive fishing zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    3 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    tropical marine; warm, rainy summers (May to October) and cool, relatively
    dry winters (November to April)
Terrain:
    low-lying limestone base surrounded by coral reefs
Natural resources:
    fish, climate and beaches that foster tourism
Land use:
    arable land 0%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 8%; forest and
    woodland 23%; other 69%
Environment:
    within the Caribbean hurricane belt
Note:
    important location between Cuba and Central America

:Cayman Islands People

Population:
    29,139 (July 1992), growth rate 4.4% (1992)
Birth rate:
    16 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    5 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    33 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    8 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    75 years male, 79 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    1.5 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Caymanian(s); adjective - Caymanian
Ethnic divisions:
    40% mixed, 20% white, 20% black, 20% expatriates of various ethnic groups
Religions:
    United Church (Presbyterian and Congregational), Anglican, Baptist, Roman
    Catholic, Church of God, other Protestant denominations
Languages:
    English
Literacy:
    98% (male 98%, female 98%) age 15 and over having ever attended school
    (1970)
Labor force:
    8,061; service workers 18.7%, clerical 18.6%, construction 12.5%, finance
    and investment 6.7%, directors and business managers 5.9% (1979)
Organized labor:
    Global Seaman's Union; Cayman All Trade Union

:Cayman Islands Government

Long-form name:
    none
Type:
    dependent territory of the UK
Capital:
    George Town
Administrative divisions:
    8 districts; Creek, Eastern, Midland, South Town, Spot Bay, Stake Bay, West
    End, Western
Independence:
    none (dependent territory of the UK)
Constitution:
    1959, revised 1972
Legal system:
    British common law and local statutes
National holiday:
    Constitution Day (first Monday in July)
Executive branch:
    British monarch, governor, Executive Council (cabinet)
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Legislative Assembly
Judicial branch:
    Grand Court, Cayman Islands Court of Appeal
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952), represented by Governor Michael
    GORE (since May 1992)
  Head of Government:
    Governor and President of the Executive Council Alan James SCOTT (since NA
    1987)
Political parties and leaders:
    no formal political parties
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  Legislative Assembly:
    last held November 1988 (next to be held November 1992); results - percent
    of vote by party NA; seats - (15 total, 12 elected)
Member of:
    CARICOM (observer), CDB, IOC
Diplomatic representation:
    as a dependent territory of the UK, Caymanian interests in the US are
    represented by the UK
  US:
    none
Flag:
    blue, with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side quadrant and the
    Caymanian coat of arms on a white disk centered on the outer half of the
    flag; the coat of arms includes a pineapple and turtle above a shield with
    three stars (representing the three islands) and a scroll at the bottom
    bearing the motto HE HATH FOUNDED IT UPON THE SEAS
    HE HATH FOUNDED IT UPON THE SEAS

:Cayman Islands Economy

Overview:
    The economy depends heavily on tourism (70% of GDP and 75% of export
    earnings) and offshore financial services, with the tourist industry aimed
    at the luxury market and catering mainly to visitors from North America.
    About 90% of the islands' food and consumer goods needs must be imported.
    The Caymanians enjoy one of the highest standards of living in the region.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $384 million, per capita $14,500 (1989); real
    growth rate 8% (1990)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    8% (1990 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    NA%
Budget:
    revenues $83.6 million; expenditures $98.9 million, including capital
    expenditures of $13.6 million (1990)
Exports:
    $1.5 million (f.o.b., 1987 est.)
  commodities:
    turtle products, manufactured consumer goods
  partners:
    mostly US
Imports:
    $136 million (c.i.f., 1987 est.)
  commodities:
    foodstuffs, manufactured goods
  partners:
    US, Trinidad and Tobago, UK, Netherlands Antilles, Japan
External debt:
    $15 million (1986)
Industrial production:
    growth rate NA%
Electricity:
    74,000 kW capacity; 256 million kWh produced, 9,313 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    tourism, banking, insurance and finance, construction, building materials,
    furniture making
Agriculture:
    minor production of vegetables, fruit, livestock; turtle farming
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $26.7 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $35 million
Currency:
    Caymanian dollar (plural - dollars); 1 Caymanian dollar (CI$) = 100 cents
Exchange rates:
    Caymanian dollars (CI$) per US$1 - 1.20 (fixed rate)
Fiscal year:
    1 April - 31 March

:Cayman Islands Communications

Highways:
    160 km of main roads
Ports:
    George Town, Cayman Brac
Merchant marine:
    32 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 364,174 GRT/560,241 DWT; includes 1
    passenger-cargo, 7 cargo, 8 roll-on/roll-off cargo, 6 petroleum tanker, 1
    chemical tanker, 1 specialized tanker, 1 liquefied gas carrier, 5 bulk, 2
    combination bulk; note - a flag of convenience registry
Civil air:
    2 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    3 total; 3 usable; 2 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways over
    2,439 m; 2 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    35,000 telephones; telephone system uses 1 submarine coaxial cable and 1
    Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT earth station to link islands and access
    international services; broadcast stations - 2 AM, 1 FM, no TV

:Cayman Islands Defense Forces

Branches:
    Royal Cayman Islands Police Force (RCIPF)
Note:
    defense is the responsibility of the UK

:Central African Republic Geography

Total area:
    622,980 km2
Land area:
    622,980 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than Texas
Land boundaries:
    5,203 km; Cameroon 797 km, Chad 1,197 km, Congo 467 km, Sudan 1,165 km,
    Zaire 1,577 km
Coastline:
    none - landlocked
Maritime claims:
    none - landlocked
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    tropical; hot, dry winters; mild to hot, wet summers
Terrain:
    vast, flat to rolling, monotonous plateau; scattered hills in northeast and
    southwest
Natural resources:
    diamonds, uranium, timber, gold, oil
Land use:
    arable land 3%; permanent crops NEGL%; meadows and pastures 5%; forest and
    woodland 64%; other 28%
Environment:
    hot, dry, dusty harmattan winds affect northern areas; poaching has
    diminished reputation as one of last great wildlife refuges; desertification
Note:
    landlocked; almost the precise center of Africa

:Central African Republic People

Population:
    3,029,080 (July 1992), growth rate 2.6% (1992)
Birth rate:
    43 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    18 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    135 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    46 years male, 49 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    5.5 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Central African(s); adjective - Central African
Ethnic divisions:
    about 80 ethnic groups, the majority of which have related ethnic and
    linguistic characteristics; Baya 34%, Banda 27%, Sara 10%, Mandjia 21%,
    Mboum 4%, M'Baka 4%; 6,500 Europeans, of whom 3,600 are French
Religions:
    indigenous beliefs 24%, Protestant 25%, Roman Catholic 25%, Muslim 15%,
    other 11%; animistic beliefs and practices strongly influence the Christian
    majority
Languages:
    French (official); Sangho (lingua franca and national language); Arabic,
    Hunsa, Swahili
Literacy:
    27% (male 33%, female 15%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    775,413 (1986 est.); agriculture 85%, commerce and services 9%, industry 3%,
    government 3%; about 64,000 salaried workers; 55% of population of working
    age (1985)
Organized labor:
    1% of labor force

:Central African Republic Government

Long-form name:
    Central African Republic (no short-form name); abbreviated CAR
Type:
    republic, one-party presidential regime since 1986
Capital:
    Bangui
Administrative divisions:
    14 prefectures (prefectures, singular - prefecture), 2 economic prefectures*
    (prefectures economiques, singular - prefecture economique), and 1
    commune**; Bamingui-Bangoran, Bangui** Basse-Kotto, Gribingui*, Haute-Kotto,
    Haute-Sangha, Haut-Mbomou, Kemo-Gribingui, Lobaye, Mbomou, Nana-Mambere,
    Ombella-Mpoko, Ouaka, Ouham, Ouham-Pende, Sangha*, Vakaga
Independence:
    13 August 1960 (from France; formerly Central African Empire)
Constitution:
    21 November 1986
Legal system:
    based on French law
National holiday:
    National Day (proclamation of the republic), 1 December (1958)
Executive branch:
    president, prime minister, Council of Ministers (cabinet)
Legislative branch:
    unicameral National Assembly (Assemblee Nationale) advised by the Economic
    and Regional Council (Conseil Economique et Regional); when they sit
    together this is known as the Congress (Congres)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court (Cour Supreme)
Leaders:
  Chief of State::
    President Andre-Dieudonne KOLINGBA (since 1 September 1981)
  Head of Government::
    Prime Minister Edouard FRANCK (since 15 March 1991)
Political parties and leaders:
    Centrafrican Democratic Rally Party (RDC), Andre-Dieudonne KOLINGBA; note -
    as part of political reforms leading to a democratic system announced in
    April 1991, 18 opposition parties have been legalized
Suffrage:
    universal at age 21
Elections:
  National Assembly:
    last held 31 July 1987 (next to be held by end of 1992); results - RDC is
    the only party; seats - (52 total) RDC 52
  President:
    last held 21 November 1986 (next to be held by end of 1992); results -
    President KOLINGBA was reelected without opposition
Communists:
    small number of Communist sympathizers
Member of:
    ACCT, ACP, AfDB, BDEAC, CCC, CEEAC, ECA, FAO, FZ, G-77, GATT, IBRD, ICAO,
    ICFTU, IDA, IFAD, ILO, IMF, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, ITU, LORCS, NAM, OAU,
    UDEAC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WHO, WIPO, WMO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Jean-Pierre SOHAHONG-KOMBET; Chancery at 1618 22nd Street NW,
    Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 483-7800 or 7801
  US:
    Ambassador Daniel H. SIMPSON; Embassy at Avenue du President David Dacko,
    Bangui (mailing address is B. P. 924, Bangui); telephone 61-02-00, 61-25-78,
    or 61-43-33; FAX [190] (236) 61-44-94

:Central African Republic Government

Flag:
    four equal horizontal bands of blue (top), white, green, and yellow with a
    vertical red band in center; there is a yellow five-pointed star on the
    hoist side of the blue band

:Central African Republic Economy

Overview:
    Subsistence agriculture, including forestry, is the backbone of the CAR
    economy, with more than 70% of the population living in the countryside. In
    1988 the agricultural sector generated about 40% of GDP. Agricultural
    products accounted for about 60% of export earnings and the diamond industry
    for 30%. The country's 1991 budget deficit was US $70 million and in 1992 is
    expected to be about the same. Important constraints to economic development
    include the CAR's landlocked position, a poor transportation system, and a
    weak human resource base. Multilateral and bilateral development assistance,
    particularly from France, plays a major role in providing capital for new
    investment.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $1.3 billion, per capita $440; real growth rate -
    3.0% (1990 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    -3.0% (1990 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    30% in Bangui (1988 est.)
Budget:
    revenues $121 million; expenditures $193 million, including capital
    expenditures of $NA million (1991 est.)
Exports:
    $151.3 million (1990 est.)
  commodities:
    diamonds, cotton, coffee, timber, tobacco
  partners:
    France, Belgium, Italy, Japan, US
Imports:
    $214.5 million (1990 est.)
  commodities:
    food, textiles, petroleum products, machinery, electrical equipment, motor
    vehicles, chemicals, pharmaceuticals, consumer goods, industrial products
  partners:
    France, other EC countries, Japan, Algeria, Yugoslavia
External debt:
    $700 million (1990 est.)
Industrial production:
    0.8% (1988); accounts for 12% of GDP
Electricity:
    40,000 kW capacity; 95 million kWh produced, 30 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    diamond mining, sawmills, breweries, textiles, footwear, assembly of
    bicycles and motorcycles
Agriculture:
    accounts for 40% of GDP; self-sufficient in food production except for
    grain; commercial crops - cotton, coffee, tobacco, timber; food crops -
    manioc, yams, millet, corn, bananas
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $49 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $1.5 billion; OPEC
    bilateral aid (1979-89), $6 million; Communist countries (1970-89), $38
    million
Currency:
    Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (plural - francs); 1 CFA franc (CFAF)
    = 100 centimes
Exchange rates:
    Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (CFAF) per US$1 - 269.01 (January
    1992), 282.11 (1991), 272.26 (1990), 319.01 (1989), 297.85 (1988), 300.54
    (1987)

:Central African Republic Economy

Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Central African Republic Communications

Highways:
    22,000 km total; 458 km bituminous, 10,542 km improved earth, 11,000
    unimproved earth
Inland waterways:
    800 km; traditional trade carried on by means of shallow-draft dugouts;
    Oubangui is the most important river
Civil air:
    2 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    66 total, 52 usable; 4 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 2 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 22 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    fair system; network relies primarily on radio relay links, with
    low-capacity, low-powered radiocommunication also used; broadcast stations -
    1 AM, 1 FM, 1 TV; 1 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT earth station

:Central African Republic Defense Forces

Branches:
    Central African Army (including Republican Guard), Air Force, National
    Gendarmerie, Police Force
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 677,889; 354,489 fit for military service
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $23 million, 1.8% of GDP (1989 est.)

:Chad Geography

Total area:
    1,284,000 km2
Land area:
    1,259,200 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly more than three times the size of California
Land boundaries:
    5,968 km; Cameroon 1,094 km, Central African Republic 1,197 km, Libya 1,055
    km, Niger 1,175 km, Nigeria 87 km, Sudan 1,360 km
Coastline:
    none - landlocked
Maritime claims:
    none - landlocked
Disputes:
    Libya claims and occupies the 100,000 km2 Aozou Strip in the far north;
    demarcation of international boundaries in Lake Chad, the lack of which has
    led to border incidents in the past, is completed and awaiting ratification
    by Cameroon, Chad, Niger, and Nigeria
Climate:
    tropical in south, desert in north
Terrain:
    broad, arid plains in center, desert in north, mountains in northwest,
    lowlands in south
Natural resources:
    crude oil (unexploited but exploration under way), uranium, natron, kaolin,
    fish (Lake Chad)
Land use:
    arable land 2%; permanent crops NEGL%; meadows and pastures 36%; forest and
    woodland 11%; other 51%; includes irrigated NEGL%
Environment:
    hot, dry, dusty harmattan winds occur in north; drought and desertification
    adversely affecting south; subject to plagues of locusts
Note:
    landlocked; Lake Chad is the most significant water body in the Sahel

:Chad People

Population:
    5,238,908 (July 1992), growth rate 2.1% (1992)
Birth rate:
    42 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    21 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    136 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    39 years male, 41 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    5.3 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Chadian(s); adjective - Chadian
Ethnic divisions:
    some 200 distinct ethnic groups, most of whom are Muslims (Arabs, Toubou,
    Hadjerai, Fulbe, Kotoko, Kanembou, Baguirmi, Boulala, Zaghawa, and Maba) in
    the north and center and non-Muslims (Sara, Ngambaye, Mbaye, Goulaye,
    Moundang, Moussei, Massa) in the south; some 150,000 nonindigenous, of whom
    1,000 are French
Religions:
    Muslim 44%, Christian 33%, indigenous beliefs, animism 23%
Languages:
    French and Arabic (official); Sara and Sango in south; more than 100
    different languages and dialects are spoken
Literacy:
    30% (male 42%, female 18%) age 15 and over can read and write French or
    Arabic (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    NA; agriculture (engaged in unpaid subsistence farming, herding, and
    fishing) 85%
Organized labor:
    about 20% of wage labor force

:Chad Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Chad
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    N'Djamena
Administrative divisions:
    14 prefectures (prefectures, singular - prefecture); Batha, Biltine,
    Borkou-Ennedi-Tibesti, Chari-Baguirmi, Guera, Kanem, Lac, Logone Occidental,
    Logone Oriental, Mayo-Kebbi, Moyen-Chari, Ouaddai, Salamat, Tandjile
Independence:
    11 August 1960 (from France)
Constitution:
    22 December 1989, suspended 3 December 1990; Provisional National Charter 1
    March 1991
Legal system:
    based on French civil law system and Chadian customary law; has not accepted
    compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
National holiday:
    11 August
Executive branch:
    president, Council of State (cabinet)
Legislative branch:
    the National Consultative Council (Conseil National Consultatif) was
    disbanded 3 December 1990 and replaced by the Provisional Council of the
    Republic; 30 members appointed by President DEBY on 8 March 1991
Judicial branch:
    Court of Appeal
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Col. Idriss DEBY (since 4 December 1990)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Jean ALINGUE Bawoyeu (since 8 March 1991)
Political parties and leaders:
    Patriotic Salvation Movement (MPS; former dissident group), Idriss DEBY,
    chairman; President DEBY has promised political pluralism, a new
    constitution, and free elections by September 1993; numerous dissident
    groups; national conference to be held in 1992
Suffrage:
    universal at age NA
Elections:
  National Consultative Council:
    last held 8 July 1990; disbanded 3 December 1990
  President:
    last held 10 December 1989 (next to be held NA); results - President Hissein
    HABRE was elected without opposition; note - the government of then
    President HABRE fell on 1 December 1990, and Idriss DEBY seized power on 3
    December 1990; national conference scheduled for mid-1992 and election to
    follow in 1993
Communists:
    no front organizations or underground party; probably a few Communists and
    some sympathizers
Other political or pressure groups:
    NA
Member of:
    ACCT, ACP, AfDB, BDEAC, CEEAC, ECA, FAO, FZ, G-77, GATT, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU,
    IDA, IDB, IFAD, ILO, IMF, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, ITU, LORCS, NAM, OAU,
    OIC, UDEAC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UPU, WCL, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

:Chad Government

Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador ACHEIKH ibn Oumar; Chancery at 2002 R Street NW, Washington, DC
    20009; telephone (202) 462-4009
  US:
    Ambassador Richard W. BOGOSIAN; Embassy at Avenue Felix Eboue, N'Djamena
    (mailing address is B. P. 413, N'Djamena); telephone [235] (51) 62-18,
    40-09, or 51-62-11; FAX [235] 51-33-72
Flag:
    three equal vertical bands of blue (hoist side), yellow, and red; similar to
    the flag of Romania; also similar to the flag of Andorra, which has a
    national coat of arms featuring a quartered shield centered in the yellow
    band; design was based on the flag of France

:Chad Economy

Overview:
    The climate, geographic location, and lack of infrastructure and natural
    resources potential make Chad one of the most underdeveloped countries in
    the world. Its economy is burdened by the ravages of civil war, conflict
    with Libya, drought, and food shortages. In 1986 real GDP returned to its
    1977 level, with cotton, the major cash crop, accounting for 48% of exports.
    Over 80% of the work force is employed in subsistence farming and fishing.
    Industry is based almost entirely on the processing of agricultural
    products, including cotton, sugarcane, and cattle. Chad is highly dependent
    on foreign aid, with its economy in trouble and many regions suffering from
    shortages. Oil companies are exploring areas north of Lake Chad and in the
    Doba basin in the south. Since coming to power in December 1990, the Deby
    government has experienced a year of economic chaos.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $1.0 billion, per capita $205; real growth rate
    0.9% (1989 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    --4.9% (1989)
Unemployment rate:
    NA
Budget:
    entirely funded by outside donors
Exports:
    $174 million (f.o.b., 1990 est.)
  commodities:
    cotton 48%, cattle 35%, textiles 5%, fish
  partners:
    France, Nigeria, Cameroon
Imports:
    $264 million (c.i.f., 1990 est.)
  commodities:
    machinery and transportation equipment 39%, industrial goods 20%, petroleum
    products 13%, foodstuffs 9%; note - excludes military equipment
  partners:
    US, France, Nigeria, Cameroon
External debt:
    $530 million (December 1990 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 12.9% (1989 est.); accounts for nearly 15% of GDP
Electricity:
    40,000 kW capacity; 70 million kWh produced, 15 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    cotton textile mills, slaughterhouses, brewery, natron (sodium carbonate),
    soap, cigarettes
Agriculture:
    accounts for about 45% of GDP; largely subsistence farming; cotton most
    important cash crop; food crops include sorghum, millet, peanuts, rice,
    potatoes, manioc; livestock - cattle, sheep, goats, camels; self-sufficient
    in food in years of adequate rainfall
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $198 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $1.5 billion; OPEC
    bilateral aid (1979-89), $28 million; Communist countries (1970-89), $80
    million
Currency:
    Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (plural - francs); 1 CFA franc (CFAF)
    = 100 centimes

:Chad Economy

Exchange rates:
    Communaute Financiere Africaine Francs (CFAF) per US$1 - 269.01 (January
    1992), 282.11 (1991), 272.26 (1990), 319.01 (1989), 297.85 (1988), 300.54
    (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Chad Communications

Highways:
    31,322 km total; 32 km bituminous; 7,300 km gravel and laterite; remainder
    unimproved earth
Inland waterways:
    2,000 km navigable
Civil air:
    3 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    71 total, 55 usable; 4 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 4 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 25 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    fair system of radiocommunication stations for intercity links; broadcast
    stations - 6 AM, 1 FM, limited TV service; many facilities are inoperative;
    1 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT earth station

:Chad Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army (includes Ground Forces, Air Force, and Gendarmerie), National Police,
    Republican Guard
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 1,217,728; 632,833 fit for military service; 50,966 reach
    military age (20) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $39 million, 4.3% of GDP (1988)

:Chile Geography

Total area:
    756,950 km2
Land area:
    748,800 km2; includes Isla de Pascua (Easter Island) and Isla Sala y Gomez
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than twice the size of Montana
Land boundaries:
    6,171 km; Argentina 5,150 km, Bolivia 861 km, Peru 160 km
Coastline:
    6,435 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    24 nm
  Continental shelf:
    200 nm
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    short section of the southern boundary with Argentina is indefinite; Bolivia
    has wanted a sovereign corridor to the South Pacific Ocean since the Atacama
    area was lost to Chile in 1884; dispute with Bolivia over Rio Lauca water
    rights; territorial claim in Antarctica (Chilean Antarctic Territory)
    partially overlaps Argentine claim
Climate:
    temperate; desert in north; cool and damp in south
Terrain:
    low coastal mountains; fertile central valley; rugged Andes in east
Natural resources:
    copper, timber, iron ore, nitrates, precious metals, molybdenum
Land use:
    arable land 7%; permanent crops NEGL%; meadows and pastures 16%; forest and
    woodland 21%; other 56%; includes irrigated 2%
Environment:
    subject to severe earthquakes, active volcanism, tsunami; Atacama Desert one
    of world's driest regions; desertification
Note:
    strategic location relative to sea lanes between Atlantic and Pacific Oceans
    (Strait of Magellan, Beagle Channel, Drake Passage)

:Chile People

Population:
    13,528,945 (July 1992), growth rate 1.6% (1992)
Birth rate:
    21 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    6 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    17 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    71 years male, 77 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    2.5 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Chilean(s); adjective - Chilean
Ethnic divisions:
    European and European-Indian 95%, Indian 3%, other 2%
Religions:
    Roman Catholic 89%, Protestant 11%, and small Jewish population
Languages:
    Spanish
Literacy:
    93% (male 94%, female 93%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    4,728,000; services 38.3% (includes government 12%); industry and commerce
    33.8%; agriculture, forestry, and fishing 19.2%; mining 2.3%; construction
    6.4% (1990)
Organized labor:
    13% of labor force (1990)

:Chile Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Chile
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Santiago
Administrative divisions:
    13 regions (regiones, singular - region); Aisen del General Carlos Ibanez
    del Campo, Antofagasta, Araucania, Atacama, Bio-Bio, Coquimbo, Libertador
    General Bernardo O'Higgins, Los Lagos, Magallanes y de la Antartica Chilena,
    Maule, Region Metropolitana, Tarapaca, Valparaiso; note - the US does not
    recognize claims to Antarctica
Independence:
    18 September 1810 (from Spain)
Constitution:
    11 September 1980, effective 11 March 1981; amended 30 July 1989
Legal system:
    based on Code of 1857 derived from Spanish law and subsequent codes
    influenced by French and Austrian law; judicial review of legislative acts
    in the Supreme Court; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 18 September (1810)
Executive branch:
    president, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    bicameral National Congress (Congreso Nacional) consisting of an upper house
    or Senate (Senado) and a lower house or Chamber of Deputies (Camara de
    Diputados)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court (Corte Suprema)
Leaders:
  Chief of State and Head of Government:
    President Patricio AYLWIN Azocar (since 11 March 1990)
Political parties and leaders:
    Concertation of Parties for Democracy now consists mainly of five parties -
    Christian Democratic Party (PDC), Eduardo FREI Ruiz-Tagle; Party for
    Democracy (PPD), Erich SCHNAKE; Radical Party (PR), Carlos GONZALEZ Marquez;
    Social Democratic Party (PSP), Roberto MUNOZ Barros; Socialist Party (PS),
    Ricardo NUNEZ; National Renovation (RN), Andres ALLAMAND; Independent
    Democratic Union (UDI), Julio DITTBORN; Center-Center Union (UCC), Francisco
    Juner ERRAZURIZA; Communist Party of Chile (PCCh), Volodia TEITELBOIM;
    Movement of Revolutionary Left (MIR) is splintered, no single leader
Suffrage:
    universal and compulsory at age 18
Elections:
  Chamber of Deputies:
    last held 14 December 1989 (next to be held December 1993 or January 1994);
    results - percent of vote by party NA; seats - (120 total) Concertation of
    Parties for Democracy 72 (PDC 38, PPD 17, PR 5, other 12), RN 29, UDI 11,
    right-wing independents 8
  President:
    last held 14 December 1989 (next to be held December 1993 or January 1994);
    results - Patricio AYLWIN (PDC) 55.2%, Hernan BUCHI 29.4%, other 15.4%
  Senate:
    last held 14 December 1989 (next to be held December 1993 or January 1994);
    results - percent of vote by party NA; seats - (46 total, 38 elected)
    Concertation of Parties for Democracy 22 (PDC 13, PPD 5, PR 2, PSD 1, PRSD
    1), RN 6, UDI 2, independents 8

:Chile Government

Communists:
    The PCCh has legal party status and has less than 60,000 members
Other political or pressure groups:
    revitalized university student federations at all major universities
    dominated by opposition political groups; labor - United Labor Central (CUT)
    includes trade unionists from the country's five largest labor
    confederations; Roman Catholic Church
Member of:
    CCC, ECLAC, FAO, G-11, G-77, GATT, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, IDA, IFAD,
    IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INMARSAT, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, LAES,
    LAIA, LORCS, OAS, OPANAL, PCA, RG, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNMOGIP,
    UNTSO, UPU, WCL, WFTV, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Patricio SILVA Echenique; Chancery at 1732 Massachusetts Avenue
    NW, Washington, DC 20036; telephone (202) 785-1746; there are Chilean
    Consulates General in Houston, Los Angeles, Miami, New York, Philadelphia,
    and San Francisco
  US:
    Ambassador Curtis KAMMAN; Embassy at Codina Building, 1343 Agustinas,
    Santiago (mailing address is APO AA 34033); telephone [56] (2) 671-0133; FAX
    [56] (2) 699-1141
Flag:
    two equal horizontal bands of white (top) and red; there is a blue square
    the same height as the white band at the hoist-side end of the white band;
    the square bears a white five-pointed star in the center; design was based
    on the US flag

:Chile Economy

Overview:
    The government of President Aylwin, which took power in 1990, has opted to
    retain the orthodox economic policies of Pinochet, although the share of
    spending for social welfare has risen slightly. In 1991 growth in GDP
    recovered to 5.5% (led by consumer spending) after only 2.1% growth in 1990.
    The tight monetary policy of 1990 helped cut the rate of inflation from
    27.3% in 1990 to 18.7% in 1991. Despite a 12% drop in copper prices, the
    trade surplus rose in 1991, and international reserves increased.
    Inflationary pressures are not expected to ease much in 1992, and economic
    growth is likely to approach 7%.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $30.5 billion, per capita $2,300; real growth
    rate 5.5% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    18.7% (1991)
Unemployment rate:
    6.5% (1991)
Budget:
    revenues $7.6 billion; expenditures $8.3 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $772 million (1991 est.)
Exports:
    $8.9 billion (f.o.b., 1991)
  commodities:
    copper 50%, other metals and minerals 7%, wood products 6.5%, fish and
    fishmeal 9%, fruits 5% (1989)
  partners:
    EC 36%, US 18%, Japan 14%, Brazil 6% (1989)
Imports:
    $7.4 billion (f.o.b., 1991)
  commodities:
    petroleum, wheat, capital goods, spare parts, raw materials
  partners:
    EC 20%, US 20%, Japan 11%, Brazil 10% (1989)
External debt:
    $16.2 billion (October 1991)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 5.9% (1991 est.); accounts for 36% of GDP
Electricity:
    5,502,800 kW capacity; 21,470 million kWh produced, 1,616 kWh per capita
    (1991)
Industries:
    copper, other minerals, foodstuffs, fish processing, iron and steel, wood
    and wood products, transport equipment, cement, textiles
Agriculture:
    accounts for about 9% of GDP (including fishing and forestry); major
    exporter of fruit, fish, and timber products; major crops - wheat, corn,
    grapes, beans, sugar beets, potatoes, deciduous fruit; livestock products -
    beef, poultry, wool; self-sufficient in most foods; 1989 fish catch of 6.1
    million metric tons; net agricultural importer
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $521 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $1.6 billion;
    Communist countries (1970-89), $386 million
Currency:
    Chilean peso (plural - pesos); 1 Chilean peso (Ch$) = 100 centavos
Exchange rates:
    Chilean pesos (Ch$) per US$1 - 368.66 (January 1992), 349.37 (1991), 305.06
    (1990), 267.16 (1989), 245.05 (1988), 219.54 (1987)

:Chile Economy

Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Chile Communications

Railroads:
    7,766 km total; 3,974 km 1.676-meter gauge, 150 km 1.435-meter standard
    gauge, 3,642 km 1.000-meter gauge; electrification, 1,865 km 1.676-meter
    gauge, 80 km 1.000-meter gauge
Highways:
    79,025 km total; 9,913 km paved, 33,140 km gravel, 35,972 km improved and
    unimproved earth (1984)
Inland waterways:
    725 km
Pipelines:
    crude oil 755 km; petroleum products 785 km; natural gas 320 km
Ports:
    Antofagasta, Iquique, Puerto Montt, Punta Arenas, Valparaiso, San Antonio,
    Talcahuano, Arica
Merchant marine:
    33 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 468,873 GRT/780,932 DWT; includes 11
    cargo, 1 refrigerated cargo, 3 roll-on/roll-off cargo, 2 petroleum tanker, 1
    chemical tanker, 3 liquefied gas, 3 combination ore/oil, 9 bulk; note - in
    addition, 2 naval tanker and 2 military transport are sometimes used
    commercially
Civil air:
    29 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    390 total, 349 usable; 48 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 12 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 58 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    modern telephone system based on extensive microwave relay facilities;
    768,000 telephones; broadcast stations - 159 AM, no FM, 131 TV, 11
    shortwave; satellite ground stations - 2 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT and 3
    domestic

:Chile Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army of the Nation, National Navy (including Naval Air, Coast Guard, and
    Marines), Air Force of the Nation, Carabineros of Chile (National Police),
    Investigative Police
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 3,600,654; 2,685,924 fit for military service; 118,480 reach
    military age (19) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $1 billion, 3.4% of GDP (1991 est.)

:China Geography

Total area:
    9,596,960 km2
Land area:
    9,326,410 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than the US
Land boundaries:
    22,143.34 km; Afghanistan 76 km, Bhutan 470 km, Burma 2,185 km, Hong Kong 30
    km, India 3,380 km, Kazakhstan 1,533 km, North Korea 1,416 km, Kyrgyzstan
    858 km, Laos 423 km, Macau 0.34 km, Mongolia 4,673 km, Nepal 1,236 km,
    Pakistan 523 km, Russia (northeast) 3,605 km, Russia (northwest) 40 km,
    Tajikistan 414 km, Vietnam 1,281 km
Coastline:
    14,500 km
Maritime claims:
  Continental shelf:
    claim to shallow areas of East China Sea and Yellow Sea
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    boundary with India; bilateral negotiations are under way to resolve
    disputed sections of the boundary with Russia; boundary with Tajikistan
    under dispute: a short section of the boundary with North Korea is
    indefinite; involved in a complex dispute over the Spratly Islands with
    Malaysia, Philippines, Taiwan, Vietnam, and possibly Brunei; maritime
    boundary dispute with Vietnam in the Gulf of Tonkin; Paracel Islands
    occupied by China, but claimed by Vietnam and Taiwan; claims
    Japanese-administered Senkaku-shoto, as does Taiwan, (Senkaku Islands/Diaoyu
    Tai)
Climate:
    extremely diverse; tropical in south to subarctic in north
Terrain:
    mostly mountains, high plateaus, deserts in west; plains, deltas, and hills
    in east
Natural resources:
    coal, iron ore, crude oil, mercury, tin, tungsten, antimony, manganese,
    molybdenum, vanadium, magnetite, aluminum, lead, zinc, uranium, world's
    largest hydropower potential
Land use:
    arable land 10%; permanent crops NEGL%; meadows and pastures 31%; forest and
    woodland 14%; other 45%; includes irrigated 5%
Environment:
    frequent typhoons (about five times per year along southern and eastern
    coasts), damaging floods, tsunamis, earthquakes; deforestation; soil
    erosion; industrial pollution; water pollution; air pollution;
    desertification
Note:
    world's third-largest country (after Russia and Canada)

:China People

Population:
    1,169,619,601 (July 1992), growth rate 1.6% (1992)
Birth rate:
    22 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    7 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    32 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    69 years male, 72 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    2.3 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Chinese (singular and plural); adjective - Chinese
Ethnic divisions:
    Han Chinese 93.3%; Zhuang, Uygur, Hui, Yi, Tibetan, Miao, Manchu, Mongol,
    Buyi, Korean, and other nationalities 6.7%
Religions:
    officially atheist, but traditionally pragmatic and eclectic; most important
    elements of religion are Confucianism, Taoism, and Buddhism; Muslim 2-3%,
    Christian 1% (est.)
Languages:
    Standard Chinese (Putonghua) or Mandarin (based on the Beijing dialect);
    also Yue (Cantonese), Wu (Shanghainese), Minbei (Fuzhou), Minnan
    (Hokkien-Taiwanese), Xiang, Gan, Hakka dialects, and minority languages (see
    ethnic divisions)
Literacy:
    73% (male 84%, female 62%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    567,400,000; agriculture and forestry 60%, industry and commerce 25%,
    construction and mining 5%, social services 5%, other 5% (1990 est.)
Organized labor:
    All-China Federation of Trade Unions (ACFTU) follows the leadership of the
    Chinese Communist Party; membership over 80 million or about 65% of the
    urban work force (1985)

:China Government

Long-form name:
    People's Republic of China; abbreviated PRC
Type:
    Communist Party - led state
Capital:
    Beijing
Administrative divisions:
    23 provinces (sheng, singular and plural), 5 autonomous regions* (zizhiqu,
    singular and plural), and 3 municipalities** (shi, singular and plural);
    Anhui, Beijing Shi**, Fujian, Gansu, Guangdong, Guangxi*, Guizhou, Hainan,
    Hebei, Heilongjiang, Henan, Hubei, Hunan, Jiangsu, Jiangxi, Jilin, Liaoning,
    Nei Mongol*, Ningxia*, Qinghai, Shaanxi, Shandong, Shanghai Shi**, Shanxi,
    Sichuan, Tianjin Shi**, Xinjiang*, Xizang*, Yunnan, Zhejiang; note - China
    considers Taiwan its 23rd province
Independence:
    unification under the Qin (Ch'in) Dynasty 221 BC, Qing (Ch'ing) Dynasty
    replaced by the Republic on 12 February 1912, People's Republic established
    1 October 1949
Constitution:
    most recent promulgated 4 December 1982
Legal system:
    a complex amalgam of custom and statute, largely criminal law; rudimentary
    civil code in effect since 1 January 1987; new legal codes in effect since 1
    January 1980; continuing efforts are being made to improve civil,
    administrative, criminal, and commercial law
National holiday:
    National Day, 1 October (1949)
Executive branch:
    president, vice president, premier, five vice premiers, State Council
Legislative branch:
    unicameral National People's Congress (Quanguo Renmin Daibiao Dahui)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme People's Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President YANG Shangkun (since 8 April 1988); Vice President WANG Zhen
    (since 8 April 1988)
  Chief of State and Head of Government (de facto):
    DENG Xiaoping (since mid-1977)
  Head of Government:
    Premier LI Peng (Acting Premier since 24 November 1987, Premier since 9
    April 1988); Vice Premier YAO Yilin (since 2 July 1979); Vice Premier TIAN
    Jiyun (since 20 June 1983); Vice Premier WU Xueqian (since 12 April 1988);
    Vice Premier ZOU Jiahua (since 8 April 1991); Vice Premier ZHU Rongji (since
    8 April 1991)
Political parties and leaders:
    - Chinese Communist Party (CCP), JIANG Zemin, general secretary of the
    Central Committee (since 24 June 1989); also, eight registered small parties
    controlled by CCP
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  National People's Congress:
    last held March 1988 (next to be held March 1993); results - CCP is the only
    party but there are also independents; seats - (2,976 total) CCP and
    independents 2,976 (indirectly elected at county or xian level)
  President:
    last held 8 April 1988 (next to be held March 1993); results - YANG Shangkun
    was nominally elected by the Seventh National People's Congress

:China Government

Communists:
    49,000,000 party members (1990 est.)
Other political or pressure groups:
    such meaningful opposition as exists consists of loose coalitions, usually
    within the party and government organization, that vary by issue
Member of:
    AfDB, APEC, AsDB, CCC, ESCAP, FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, IDA, IFAD, IFC, ILO,
    IMF, IMO, INMARSAT, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, ISO, ITU, LORCS, PCA, UN,
    UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UN Security Council, UNTSO, UN Trusteeship
    Council, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador ZHU Qizhen; Chancery at 2300 Connecticut Avenue NW, Washington,
    DC 20008; telephone (202) 328-2500 through 2502; there are Chinese
    Consulates General in Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, New York, and San
    Francisco
  US:
    Ambassador J. Stapleton ROY; Embassy at Xiu Shui Bei Jie 3, Beijing (mailing
    address is 100600, PSC 461, Box 50, Beijing or FPO AP 96521-0002); telephone
    [86] (1) 532-3831; FAX [86] (1) 532-3178; there are US Consulates General in
    Chengdu, Guangzhou, Shanghai, and Shenyang
Flag:
    red with a large yellow five-pointed star and four smaller yellow
    five-pointed stars (arranged in a vertical arc toward the middle of the
    flag) in the upper hoist-side corner

:China Economy

Overview:
    Beginning in late 1978 the Chinese leadership has been trying to move the
    economy from the sluggish Soviet-style centrally planned economy to a more
    productive and flexible economy with market elements, but still within the
    framework of monolithic Communist control. To this end the authorities have
    switched to a system of household responsibility in agriculture in place of
    the old collectivization, increased the authority of local officials and
    plant managers in industry, permitted a wide variety of small-scale
    enterprise in services and light manufacturing, and opened the foreign
    economic sector to increased trade and joint ventures. The most gratifying
    result has been a strong spurt in production, particularly in agriculture in
    the early 1980s. Industry also has posted major gains, especially in coastal
    areas near Hong Kong and opposite Taiwan, where foreign investment and
    modern production methods have helped spur production of both domestic and
    export goods. Aggregate output has more than doubled since 1978. On the
    darker side, the leadership has often experienced in its hybrid system the
    worst results of socialism (bureaucracy, lassitude, corruption) and of
    capitalism (windfall gains and stepped-up inflation). Beijing thus has
    periodically backtracked, retightening central controls at intervals and
    thereby lessening the credibility of the reform process. In 1991 output rose
    substantially, particularly in the favored coastal areas. Popular
    resistance, changes in central policy, and loss of authority by rural cadres
    have weakened China's population control program, which is essential to the
    nation's long-term economic viability.
GNP:
    $NA, per capita $NA; real growth rate 6% (1991)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    2.1% (1991)
Unemployment rate:
    4.0% in urban areas (1991)
Budget:
    deficit $9.5 billion (1990)
Exports:
    $71.9 billion (f.o.b., 1991)
  commodities:
    textiles, garments, telecommunications and recording equipment, petroleum,
    minerals
  partners:
    Hong Kong, Japan, US, USSR, Singapore (1990)
Imports:
    $63.8 billion (c.i.f., 1991)
  commodities:
    specialized industrial machinery, chemicals, manufactured goods, steel,
    textile yarn, fertilizer
  partners:
    Hong Kong, Japan, US, Germany, Taiwan (1990)
External debt:
    $51 billion (1990 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 14.0% (1991); accounts for 45% of GNP
Electricity:
    138,000,000 kW capacity (1990); 670,000 million kWh produced (1991), 582 kWh
    per capita (1991)
Industries:
    iron, steel, coal, machine building, armaments, textiles, petroleum, cement,
    chemical fertilizers, consumer durables, food processing

:China Economy

Agriculture:
    accounts for 26% of GNP; among the world's largest producers of rice,
    potatoes, sorghum, peanuts, tea, millet, barley, and pork; commercial crops
    include cotton, other fibers, and oilseeds; produces variety of livestock
    products; basically self-sufficient in food; fish catch of 8 million metric
    tons in 1986
Illicit drugs:
    transshipment point for heroin produced in the Golden Triangle
Economic aid:
    donor - to less developed countries (1970-89) $7.0 billion; US commitments,
    including Ex-Im (FY70-87), $220.7 million; Western (non-US) countries, ODA
    and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-87), $13.5 billion
Currency:
    yuan (plural - yuan); 1 yuan (Y) = 10 jiao
Exchange rates:
    yuan (Y) per US$1 - 5.4481 (January 1992), 5.3234 (1991), 4.7832 (1990),
    3.7651 (1989), 3.7221 (1988), 3.7221 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:China Communications

Railroads:
    total about 54,000 km common carrier lines; 53,400 km 1.435-meter standard
    gauge; 600 km 1.000-meter gauge; of these 11,200 km are double track
    standard-gauge lines; 6,900 km electrified (1990); 10,000 km dedicated
    industrial lines (gauges range from 0.762 to 1.067 meters)
Highways:
    about 1,029,000 km (1990) all types roads; 170,000 km (est.) paved roads,
    648,000 km (est.) gravel/improved earth roads, 211,000 km (est.) unimproved
    earth roads and tracks
Inland waterways:
    138,600 km; about 109,800 km navigable
Pipelines:
    crude oil 9,700 km (1990); petroleum products 1,100 km; natural gas 6,200 km
Ports:
    Dalian, Guangzhou, Huangpu, Qingdao, Qinhuangdao, Shanghai, Xingang,
    Zhanjiang, Ningbo, Xiamen, Tanggu, Shantou
Merchant marine:
    1,454 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 13,887,312 GRT/20,916,127 DWT;
    includes 25 passenger, 42 short-sea passenger, 18 passenger-cargo, 6
    cargo/training, 801 cargo, 10 refrigerated cargo, 77 container, 19
    roll-on/roll-off cargo, 1 multifunction/barge carrier, 177 petroleum tanker,
    10 chemical tanker, 254 bulk, 3 liquefied gas, 1 vehicle carrier, 9
    combination bulk, 1 barge carrier; note - China beneficially owns an
    additional 194 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling approximately 7,077,089
    DWT that operate under Panamanian, British, Hong Kong, Maltese, Liberian,
    Vanuatu, Cyprus, and Saint Vincent registry
Civil air:
    284 major transport aircraft (1988 est.)
Airports:
    330 total, 330 usable; 260 with permanent-surface runways; fewer than 10
    with runways over 3,500 m; 90 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 200 with runways
    1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    domestic and international services are increasingly available for private
    use; unevenly distributed internal system serves principal cities,
    industrial centers, and most townships; 11,000,000 telephones (December
    1989); broadcast stations - 274 AM, unknown FM, 202 (2,050 repeaters) TV;
    more than 215 million radio receivers; 75 million TVs; satellite earth
    stations - 4 Pacific Ocean INTELSAT, 1 Indian Ocean INTELSAT, 1 INMARSAT,
    and 55 domestic

:China Defense Forces

Branches:
    People's Liberation Army (PLA), PLA Navy (including Marines), PLA Air Force,
    People's Armed Police
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 339,554,712; 188,995,620 fit for military service; 11,691,967
    reach military age (18) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $12-15 billion, NA of GNP (1991 est.)

:Christmas Island Geography

Total area:
    135 km2
Land area:
    135 km2
Comparative area:
    about 0.8 times the size of Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    138.9 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    12 nm
  Exclusive fishing zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    3 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    tropical; heat and humidity moderated by trade winds
Terrain:
    steep cliffs along coast rise abruptly to central plateau
Natural resources:
    phosphate
Land use:
    arable land 0%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 0%; forest and
    woodland 0%; other 100%
Environment:
    almost completely surrounded by a reef
Note:
    located along major sea lanes of Indian Ocean

:Christmas Island People

Population:
    929 (July 1992), growth rate NA% (1992)
Birth rate:
    NA births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    NA deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    NA migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    NA deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    NA years male, NA years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    NA children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Christmas Islander(s); adjective - Christmas Island
Ethnic divisions:
    Chinese 61%, Malay 25%, European 11%, other 3%; no indigenous population
Religions:
    Buddhist 36.1%, Muslim 25.4%, Christian 17.7% (Roman Catholic 8.2%, Church
    of England 3.2%, Presbyterian 0.9%, Uniting Church 0.4%, Methodist 0.2%,
    Baptist 0.1%, and other 4.7%), none 12.7%, unknown 4.6%, other 3.5% (1981)
Languages:
    English
Literacy:
    NA% (male NA%, female NA%)
Labor force:
    NA; all workers are employees of the Phosphate Mining Company of Christmas
    Island, Ltd.
Organized labor:
    NA

:Christmas Island Government

Long-form name:
    Territory of Christmas Island
Type:
    territory of Australia
Capital:
    The Settlement
Administrative divisions:
    none (territory of Australia)
Independence:
    none (territory of Australia)
Constitution:
    Christmas Island Act of 1958
Legal system:
    under the authority of the governor general of Australia
National holiday:
    NA
Executive branch:
    British monarch, governor general of Australia, administrator, Advisory
    Council (cabinet)
Legislative branch:
    none
Judicial branch:
    none
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952)
  Head of Government:
    Administrator W. A. MCKENZIE (since NA)
Member of:
    none
Diplomatic representation:
    none (territory of Australia)
Flag:
    the flag of Australia is used

:Christmas Island Economy

Overview:
    Phosphate mining had been the only significant economic activity, but in
    December 1987 the Australian Government closed the mine as no longer
    economically viable. Plans have been under way to reopen the mine and also
    to build a casino and hotel to develop tourism, with a possible opening date
    during the first half of 1992.
GDP:
    NA - $NA, per capita $NA; real growth rate NA%
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    NA%
Unemployment rate:
    NA%
Budget:
    revenues $NA; expenditures $NA, including capital expenditures of $NA
Exports:
    $NA
  commodities:
    phosphate
  partners:
    Australia, NZ
Imports:
    $NA
  commodities:
    NA
  partners:
    NA
External debt:
    $NA
Industrial production:
    growth rate NA%
Electricity:
    11,000 kW capacity; 30 million kWh produced, 13,170 kWh per capita (1990)
Industries:
    phosphate extraction (near depletion)
Agriculture:
    NA
Economic aid:
    none
Currency:
    Australian dollar (plural - dollars); 1 Australian dollar ($A) = 100 cents
Exchange rates:
    Australian dollars ($A) per US$1 - 1.3360 (January 1992), 1.2836 (1991),
    1.2799 (1990), 1.2618 (1989), 1.2752 (1988), 1.4267 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    1 July - 30 June

:Christmas Island Communications

Ports:
    Flying Fish Cove
Airports:
    1 usable with permanent-surface runway 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    4,000 radios (1982)

:Christmas Island Defense Forces

Note:
    defense is the responsibility of Australia

:Clipperton Island Geography

Total area:
    7 km2
Land area:
    7 km2
Comparative area:
    about 12 times the size of the Mall in Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    11.1 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    claimed by Mexico
Climate:
    tropical
Terrain:
    coral atoll
Natural resources:
    none
Land use:
    arable land 0%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 0%; forest and
    woodland 0%; other (coral) 100%
Environment:
    reef about 8 km in circumference
Note:
    located 1,120 km southwest of Mexico in the North Pacific Ocean; also called
    Ile de la Passion

:Clipperton Island People

Population:
    uninhabited

:Clipperton Island Government

Long-form name:
    none
Type:
    French possession administered by France from French Polynesia by High
    Commissioner of the Republic Jean MONTPEZAT
Capital:
    none; administered by France from French Polynesia

:Clipperton Island Economy

Overview:
    The only economic activity is a tuna fishing station.

:Clipperton Island Communications

Ports:
    none; offshore anchorage only

:Clipperton Island Defense Forces

Note:
    defense is the responsibility of France

:Cocos Islands Geography

Total area:
    14 km2
Land area:
    14 km2; main islands are West Island and Home Island
Comparative area:
    about 24 times the size of the Mall in Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    2.6 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive fishing zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    3 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    pleasant, modified by the southeasttrade wind for about nine months of the
    year; moderate rain fall
Terrain:
    flat, low-lying coral atolls
Natural resources:
    fish
Land use:
    arable land 0%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 0%; forest and
    woodland 0%; other 100%
Environment:
    two coral atolls thickly covered with coconut palms and other vegetation
Note:
    located 1,070 km southwest of Sumatra (Indonesia) in the Indian Ocean about
    halfway between Australia and Sri Lanka

:Cocos Islands People

Population:
    597 (July 1992), growth rate - 0.5% (1992)
Birth rate:
    NA births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    NA deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    NA migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    NA deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    NA years male, NA years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    NA children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Cocos Islander(s); adjective - Cocos Islander
Ethnic divisions:
    mostly Europeans on West Island and Cocos Malays on Home Island
Religions:
    almost all Sunni Muslims
Languages:
    English
Literacy:
    NA% (male NA%, female NA%)
Labor force:
    NA
Organized labor:
    none

:Cocos Islands Government

Long-form name:
    Territory of Cocos (Keeling) Islands
Type:
    territory of Australia
Capital:
    West Island
Administrative divisions:
    none (territory of Australia)
Independence:
    none (territory of Australia)
Constitution:
    Cocos (Keeling) Islands Act of 1955
Legal system:
    based upon the laws of Australia and local laws
National holiday:
    NA
Executive branch:
    British monarch, governor general of Australia, administrator, chairman of
    the Islands Council
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Islands Council
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952)
  Head of Government:
    Administrator B. CUNNINGHAM (since NA); Chairman of the Islands Council Haji
    Wahin bin BYNIE (since NA)
Suffrage:
    NA
Elections:
    NA
Member of:
    none
Diplomatic representation:
    none (territory of Australia)
Flag:
    the flag of Australia is used

:Cocos Islands Economy

Overview:
    Grown throughout the islands, coconuts are the sole cash crop. Copra and
    fresh coconuts are the major export earners. Small local gardens and fishing
    contribute to the food supply, but additional food and most other
    necessities must be imported from Australia.
GDP:
    $NA, per capita $NA; real growth rate NA%
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    NA%
Budget:
    revenues $NA; expenditures $NA, including capital expenditures of $NA
Exports:
    $NA
  commodities:
    copra
  partners:
    Australia
Imports:
    $NA
  commodities:
    foodstuffs
  partners:
    Australia
External debt:
    $NA
Industrial production:
    growth rate NA%
Electricity:
    1,000 kW capacity; 2 million kWh produced, 2,980 kWh per capita (1990)
Industries:
    copra products
Agriculture:
    gardens provide vegetables, bananas, pawpaws, coconuts
Economic aid:
    none
Currency:
    Australian dollar (plural - dollars); 1 Australian dollar ($A) = 100 cents
Exchange rates:
    Australian dollars ($A) per US$1 - 1.3360 (January 1992), 1.2836 (1991),
    1.2799 (1990), 1.2618 (1989), 1.2752 (1988), 1.4267 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    1 July - 30 June

:Cocos Islands Communications

Ports:
    none; lagoon anchorage only
Airports:
    1 airfield with permanent-surface runway, 1,220-2,439 m; airport on West
    Island is a link in service between Australia and South Africa
Telecommunications:
    250 radios (1985); linked by telephone, telex, and facsimile communications
    via satellite with Australia; broadcast stations - 1 AM, no FM, no TV

:Cocos Islands Defense Forces

Note:
    defense is the responsibility of Australia

:Colombia Geography

Total area:
    1,138,910 km2
Land area:
    1,038,700 km2; includes Isla de Malpelo, Roncador Cay, Serrana Bank, and
    Serranilla Bank
Comparative area:
    slightly less than three times the size of Montana
Land boundaries:
    7,408 km; Brazil 1,643 km, Ecuador 590 km, Panama 225 km, Peru 2,900,
    Venezuela 2,050 km
Coastline:
    3,208 km; Caribbean Sea 1,760 km, North Pacific Ocean 1,448 km
Maritime claims:
  Continental shelf:
    not specified
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    maritime boundary dispute with Venezuela in the Gulf of Venezuela;
    territorial dispute with Nicaragua over Archipelago de San Andres y
    Providencia and Quita Sueno Bank
Climate:
    tropical along coast and eastern plains; cooler in highlands
Terrain:
    flat coastal lowlands, central highlands, high Andes mountains, eastern
    lowland plains
Natural resources:
    crude oil, natural gas, coal, iron ore, nickel, gold, copper, emeralds
Land use:
    arable land 4%; permanent crops 2%; meadows and pastures 29%; forest and
    woodland 49%; other 16%; includes irrigated NEGL%
Environment:
    highlands subject to volcanic eruptions; deforestation; soil damage from
    overuse of pesticides; periodic droughts
Note:
    only South American country with coastlines on both North Pacific Ocean and
    Caribbean Sea

:Colombia People

Population:
    34,296,941 (July 1992), growth rate 1.9% (1992)
Birth rate:
    24 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    5 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    NEGL migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    31 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    69 years male, 74 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    2.6 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Colombian(s); adjective - Colombian
Ethnic divisions:
    mestizo 58%, white 20%, mulatto 14%, black 4%, mixed black-Indian 3%, Indian
    1%
Religions:
    Roman Catholic 95%
Languages:
    Spanish
Literacy:
    87% (male 88%, female 86%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    12,000,000 (1990); services 46%, agriculture 30%, industry 24% (1990)
Organized labor:
    984,000 members (1989), about 8.2% of labor force; the Communist-backed
    Unitary Workers Central or CUT is the largest labor organization, with about
    725,000 members (including all affiliate unions)

:Colombia Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Colombia
Type:
    republic; executive branch dominates government structure
Capital:
    Bogota
Administrative divisions:
    23 departments (departamentos, singular - departamento), 5 commissariats*
    (comisarias, singular - comisaria), and 4 intendancies** (intendencias,
    singular - intendencia); Amazonas*, Antioquia, Arauca**, Atlantico, Bolivar,
    Boyaca, Caldas, Caqueta, Casanare**, Cauca, Cesar, Choco, Cordoba,
    Cundinamarca, Guainia*, Guaviare*, Huila, La Guajira, Magdalena, Meta,
    Narino, Norte de Santander, Putumayo**, Quindio, Risaralda, San Andres y
    Providencia**, Santander, Sucre, Tolima, Valle del Cauca, Vaupes*, Vichada*;
    note - there may be a new special district (distrito especial) named Bogota;
    the Constitution of 5 July 1991 states that the commissariats and
    intendancies are to become full departments and a capital district (distrito
    capital) of Santa Fe de Bogota is to be established by 1997
Independence:
    20 July 1810 (from Spain)
Constitution:
    5 July 1991
Legal system:
    based on Spanish law; judicial review of legislative acts in the Supreme
    Court; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with reservations
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 20 July (1810)
Executive branch:
    president, presidential designate, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    bicameral Congress (Congreso) consists of a nationally elected upper chamber
    or Senate (Senado) and a nationally elected lower chamber or House of
    Representatives (Camara de Representantes)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court of Justice (Corte Suprema de Justica)
Leaders:
  Chief of State and Head of Government:
    President Cesar GAVIRIA Trujillo (since 7 August 1990)
Political parties and leaders:
    Liberal Party (PL), Cesar GAVIRIA Trujillo, president; Social Conservative
    Party (PCS), Misael PASTRANA Borrero; National Salvation Movement (MSN),
    Alvaro GOMEZ Hurtado; Democratic Alliance M-19 (AD/M-19) is headed by 19th
    of April Movement (M-19) leader Antonio NAVARRO Wolf, coalition of small
    leftist parties and dissident liberals and conservatives; Patriotic Union
    (UP) is a legal political party formed by Revolutionary Armed Forces of
    Colombia (FARC) and Colombian Communist Party (PCC), Carlos ROMERO
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  President:
    last held 27 May 1990 (next to be held May 1994); results - Cesar GAVIRIA
    Trujillo (Liberal) 47%, Alvaro GOMEZ Hurtado (National Salvation Movement)
    24%, Antonio NAVARRO Wolff (M-19) 13%, Rodrigo LLOREDA (Conservative) 12%
  Senate:
    last held 27 October 1991 (next to be held March 1994); results - percent of
    vote by party NA; seats - (102 total) Liberal 58, Conservative 22, AD/M-19
    9, MSN 5, UP 1, others 7

:Colombia Government

  House of Representatives:
    last held 27 October 1991 (next to be held March 1994); results - percent of
    vote by party NA; seats - (161 total) Liberal 87, Conservative 31, AD/M-19
    13, MSN 10, UP 3, other 17
Communists:
    18,000 members (est.), including Communist Party Youth Organization (JUCO)
Other political or pressure groups:
    three insurgent groups are active in Colombia - Revolutionary Armed Forces
    of Colombia (FARC), led by Manuel MARULANDA and Alfonso CANO; National
    Liberation Army (ELN), led by Manuel PEREZ; and dissidents of the recently
    demobilized People's Liberation Army (EPL) led by Francisco CARABALLO
Member of:
    AG, CDB, CG, ECLAC, FAO, G-3, G-11, G-24, G-77, GATT, IADB, IAEA, IBRD,
    ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, IDA, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INMARSAT, INTELSAT,
    INTERPOL, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, LAES, LAIA, LORCS, NAM, OAS, OPANAL, PCA, RG,
    UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Jaime GARCIA Parra; Chancery at 2118 Leroy Place NW, Washington,
    DC 20008; telephone (202) 387-8338; there are Colombian Consulates General
    in Chicago, Houston, Miami, New Orleans, New York, San Francisco, and San
    Juan (Puerto Rico), and Consulates in Atlanta, Boston, Detroit, Los Angeles,
    and Tampa
  US:
    Ambassador Morris D. BUSBY; Embassy at Calle 38, No. 8-61, Bogota (mailing
    address is P. O. Box A. A. 3831, Bogota or APO AA 34038); telephone [57] (1)
    285-1300 or 1688; FAX [571] 288-5687; there is a US Consulate in
    Barranquilla
Flag:
    three horizontal bands of yellow (top, double-width), blue, and red; similar
    to the flag of Ecuador, which is longer and bears the Ecuadorian coat of
    arms superimposed in the center

:Colombia Economy

Overview:
    Economic development has slowed gradually since 1986, but growth rates
    remain high by Latin American standards. Conservative economic policies have
    kept inflation and unemployment near 30% and 10%, respectively. The rapid
    development of oil, coal, and other nontraditional industries over the past
    four years has helped to offset the decline in coffee prices - Colombia's
    major export. The collapse of the International Coffee Agreement in the
    summer of 1989, a troublesome rural insurgency, and drug-related violence
    have dampened growth, but significant economic reforms are likely to
    facilitate a resurgent economy in the medium term. These reforms center on
    fiscal restraint, trade liberalization, and privatization of state utilities
    and commercial banks.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $45 billion, per capita $1,300; real growth rate
    3.7% (1990 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    26.8% (1991)
Unemployment rate:
    10.5% (1991)
Budget:
    revenues $4.39 billion; current expenditures $3.93 billion, capital
    expenditures $1.03 billion (1989 est.)
Exports:
    $7.5 billion (f.o.b., 1991)
  commodities:
    petroleum (19%), coffee, coal, bananas, fresh cut flowers
  partners:
    US 40%, EC 21%, Japan 5%, Netherlands 4%, Sweden 3%
Imports:
    $6.1 billion (c.i.f., 1991)
  commodities:
    industrial equipment, transportation equipment, foodstuffs, chemicals, paper
    products
  partners:
    US 36%, EC 16%, Brazil 4%, Venezuela 3%, Japan 3%
External debt:
    $17.0 billion (1991)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 1% (1991 est.); accounts for 21% of GDP
Electricity:
    9,624,000 kW capacity; 38,856 million kWh produced, 1,150 kWh per capita
    (1991)
Industries:
    textiles, food processing, oil, clothing and footwear, beverages, chemicals,
    metal products, cement; mining - gold, coal, emeralds, iron, nickel, silver,
    salt
Agriculture:
    growth rate 3% (1991 est.) accounts for 22% of GDP; crops make up two-thirds
    and livestock one-third of agricultural output; climate and soils permit a
    wide variety of crops, such as coffee, rice, tobacco, corn, sugarcane, cocoa
    beans, oilseeds, vegetables; forest products and shrimp farming are becoming
    more important
Illicit drugs:
    illicit producer of cannabis, coca, and opium; about 37,500 hectares of coca
    under cultivation; major supplier of cocaine to the US and other
    international drug markets

:Colombia Economy

Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $1.6 billion; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $3.3 billion,
    Communist countries (1970-89), $399 million
Currency:
    Colombian peso (plural - pesos); 1 Colombian peso (Col$) = 100 centavos
Exchange rates:
    Colombian pesos (Col$) per US$1 - 711.88 (January 1992), 633.08 (1991),
    550.00 (1990), 435.00 (1989), 336.00 (1988), 242.61 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Colombia Communications

Railroads:
    3,386 km; 3,236 km 0.914-meter gauge, single track (2,611 km in use), 150 km
    1. 435-meter gauge
Highways:
    75,450 km total; 9,350 km paved, 66,100 km earth and gravel surfaces
Inland waterways:
    14,300 km, navigable by river boats
Pipelines:
    crude oil 3,585 km; petroleum products 1,350 km; natural gas 830 km; natural
    gas liquids 125 km
Ports:
    Barranquilla, Buenaventura, Cartagena, Covenas, San Andres, Santa Marta,
    Tumaco
Merchant marine:
    31 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 289,794 GRT/443,369 DWT; includes 9
    cargo, 1 chemical tanker, 3 petroleum tanker, 8 bulk, 10 container; note -
    in addition, 2 naval tankers are sometimes used commercially
Civil air:
    83 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    1,167 total, 1,023 usable; 70 with permanent-surface runways; 1 with runways
    over 3,659 m; 8 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 191 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    nationwide radio relay system; 1,890,000 telephones; broadcast stations -
    413 AM, no FM, 33 TV, 28 shortwave; 2 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT earth stations
    and 11 domestic satellite earth stations

:Colombia Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army (Ejercito Nacional), Navy (Armada Nacional, including Marines), Air
    Force (Fuerza Aerea de Colombia), National Police (Policia Nacional)
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 9,214,691; 6,240,601 fit for military service; 353,691 reach
    military age (18) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $624 million, 1.4% of GDP (1991)

:Comoros Geography

Total area:
    2,170 km2
Land area:
    2,170 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly more than 12 times the size of Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    340 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    claims French-administered Mayotte
Climate:
    tropical marine; rainy season (November to May)
Terrain:
    volcanic islands, interiors vary from steep mountains to low hills
Natural resources:
    negligible
Land use:
    arable land 35%; permanent crops 8%; meadows and pastures 7%; forest and
    woodland 16%; other 34%
Environment:
    soil degradation and erosion; deforestation; cyclones possible during rainy
    season
Note:
    important location at northern end of Mozambique Channel

:Comoros People

Population:
    493,853 (July 1992), growth rate 3.5% (1992)
Birth rate:
    47 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    12 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    84 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    55 years male, 59 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    6.9 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Comoran(s); adjective - Comoran
Ethnic divisions:
    Antalote, Cafre, Makoa, Oimatsaha, Sakalava
Religions:
    Sunni Muslim 86%, Roman Catholic 14%
Languages:
    official languages are Arabic and French but majority of population speak
    Comoran, a blend of Swahili and Arabic
Literacy:
    48% (male 56%, female 40%) age 15 and over can read and write (1980)
Labor force:
    140,000 (1982); agriculture 80%, government 3%; 51% of population of working
    age (1985)
Organized labor:
    NA

:Comoros Government

Long-form name:
    Federal Islamic Republic of the Comoros
Type:
    independent republic
Capital:
    Moroni
Administrative divisions:
    three islands; Njazidja, Nzwani, and Mwali, formerly Grand Comore, Anjouan,
    and Moheli respectively; note - there are also four municipalities named
    Domoni, Fomboni, Moroni, and Mutsamudu
Independence:
    31 December 1975 (from France)
Constitution:
    1 October 1978, amended October 1982 and January 1985
Legal system:
    French and Muslim law in a new consolidated code
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 6 July (1975)
Executive branch:
    president, Council of Ministers (cabinet)
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Federal Assembly (Assemblee Federale)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court (Cour Supreme)
Leaders:
  Chief of State and Head of Government:
    President Said Mohamed DJOHAR (since 11 March 1990); coordinator of National
    Unity Government (de facto prime minister) - Mohamed Taki ABDULKARIM (1
    January 1992)
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  Federal Assembly:
    last held 22 March 1987 (next to be held March 1992); results - percent of
    vote by party NA; seats - (42 total) Udzima 42
  President:
    last held 11 March 1990 (next to be held March 1996); results - Said Mohamed
    DJOHAR (Udzima) 55%, Mohamed TAKI Abdulkarim (UNDC) 45%
Member of:
    ACCT, ACP, AfDB, ECA, FAO, FZ, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, IDA, IDB, IFAD, ILO, IMF,
    ITU, NAM, OAU, OIC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WHO, WMO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Amini Ali MOUMIN; Chancery (temporary) at the Comoran Permanent
    Mission to the UN, 336 East 45th Street, 2nd Floor, New York, NY 10017;
    telephone (212) 972-8010
  US:
    Ambassador Kenneth N. PELTIER; Embassy at address NA, Moroni (mailing
    address B. P. 1318, Moroni); telephone 73-22-03, 73-29-22
Flag:
    green with a white crescent placed diagonally (closed side of the crescent
    points to the upper hoist-side corner of the flag); there are four white
    five-pointed stars placed in a line between the points of the crescent; the
    crescent, stars, and color green are traditional symbols of Islam; the four
    stars represent the four main islands of the archipelago - Mwali, Njazidja,
    Nzwani, and Mayotte (which is a territorial collectivity of France, but
    claimed by the Comoros)

:Comoros Economy

Overview:
    One of the world's poorest countries, Comoros is made up of several islands
    that have poor transportation links, a young and rapidly increasing
    population, and few natural resources. The low educational level of the
    labor force contributes to a low level of economic activity, high
    unemployment, and a heavy dependence on foreign grants and technical
    assistance. Agriculture, including fishing, hunting, and forestry, is the
    leading sector of the economy. It contributes about 34% to GDP, employs 80%
    of the labor force, and provides most of the exports. The country is not
    self-sufficient in food production, and rice, the main staple, accounts for
    90% of imports. During the period 1982-86 the industrial sector grew at an
    annual average rate of 5.3%, but its contribution to GDP was only 5% in
    1988. Despite major investment in the tourist industry, which accounts for
    about 25% of GDP, growth has stagnated since 1983. A sluggish growth rate of
    1.5% during 1985-90 has led to large budget deficits, declining incomes, and
    balance-of-payments difficulties. Preliminary estimates for 1991 show a
    moderate increase in the growth rate based on increased exports, tourism,
    and government investment outlays.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $260 million, per capita $540; real growth rate
    2.7% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    4.0% (1991 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    over 16% (1988 est.)
Budget:
    revenues $88 million; expenditures $92 million, including capital
    expenditures of $13 million (1990 est.)
Exports:
    $16 million (f.o.b., 1990 est.)
  commodities:
    vanilla, cloves, perfume oil, copra, ylang-ylang
  partners:
    US 53%, France 41%, Africa 4%, FRG 2% (1988)
Imports:
    $41 million (f.o.b., 1990 est.)
  commodities:
    rice and other foodstuffs, cement, petroleum products, consumer goods
  partners:
    Europe 62% (France 22%), Africa 5%, Pakistan, China (1988)
External debt:
    $196 million (1991 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 3.4% (1988 est.); accounts for 5% of GDP
Electricity:
    16,000 kW capacity; 25 million kWh produced, 50 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    perfume distillation, textiles, furniture, jewelry, construction materials,
    soft drinks
Agriculture:
    accounts for 34% of GDP; most of population works in subsistence agriculture
    and fishing; plantations produce cash crops for export - vanilla, cloves,
    perfume essences, and copra; principal food crops - coconuts, bananas,
    cassava; world's leading producer of essence of ylang-ylang (for perfumes)
    and second-largest producer of vanilla; large net food importer

:Comoros Economy

Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY80-89), $10 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $435 million; OPEC
    bilateral aid (1979-89), $22 million; Communist countries (1970-89), $18
    million
Currency:
    Comoran franc (plural - francs); 1 Comoran franc (CF) = 100 centimes
Exchange rates:
    Comoran francs (CF) per US$1 - 269.01 (January 1992), 282.11 (1991), 272.26
    (1990), 319.01 (1989), 297.85 (1988), 300.54 (1987); note - linked to the
    French franc at 50 to 1 French franc
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Comoros Communications

Highways:
    750 km total; about 210 km bituminous, remainder crushed stone or gravel
Ports:
    Mutsamudu, Moroni
Civil air:
    1 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    4 total, 4 usable; 4 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways over
    3,659 m; 1 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 3 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    sparse system of radio relay and high-frequency radio communication stations
    for interisland and external communications to Madagascar and Reunion; over
    1,800 telephones; broadcast stations - 2 AM, 1 FM, no TV

:Comoros Defense Forces

Branches:
    Comoran Security Forces (FCS), Federal Gendarmerie (GFC)
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 105,022; 62,808 fit for military service
Defense expenditures:
    $NA, NA of GDP

:Congo Geography

Total area:
    342,000 km2
Land area:
    341,500 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than Montana
Land boundaries:
    5,504 km; Angola 201 km, Cameroon 523 km, Central African Republic 467 km,
    Gabon 1,903 km, Zaire 2,410 km
Coastline:
    169 km
Maritime claims:
  Territorial sea:
    200 nm
Disputes:
    long section with Zaire along the Congo River is indefinite (no division of
    the river or its islands has been made)
Climate:
    tropical; rainy season (March to June); dry season (June to October);
    constantly high temperatures and humidity; particularly enervating climate
    astride the Equator
Terrain:
    coastal plain, southern basin, central plateau, northern basin
Natural resources:
    petroleum, timber, potash, lead, zinc, uranium, copper, phosphates, natural
    gas
Land use:
    arable land 2%; permanent crops NEGL%; meadows and pastures 29%; forest and
    woodland 62%; other 7%
Environment:
    deforestation; about 70% of the population lives in Brazzaville, Pointe
    Noire, or along the railroad between them

:Congo People

Population:
    2,376,687 (July 1992), growth rate 2.9% (1992)
Birth rate:
    42 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    13 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    109 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    53 years male, 56 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    5.7 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Congolese (singular and plural); adjective - Congolese or Congo
Ethnic divisions:
    about 15 ethnic groups divided into some 75 tribes, almost all Bantu; most
    important ethnic groups are Kongo (48%) in the south, Sangha (20%) and
    M'Bochi (12%) in the north, Teke (17%) in the center; about 8,500 Europeans,
    mostly French
Religions:
    Christian 50%, animist 48%, Muslim 2%
Languages:
    French (official); many African languages with Lingala and Kikongo most
    widely used
Literacy:
    57% (male 70%, female 44%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    79,100 wage earners; agriculture 75%, commerce, industry, and government
    25%; 51% of population of working age; 40% of population economically active
    (1985)
Organized labor:
    20% of labor force (1979 est.)

:Congo Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of the Congo
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Brazzaville
Administrative divisions:
    9 regions (regions, singular - region) and 1 commune*; Bouenza,
    Brazzaville*, Cuvette, Kouilou, Lekoumou, Likouala, Niari, Plateaux, Pool,
    Sangha
Independence:
    15 August 1960 (from France; formerly Congo/Brazzaville)
Constitution:
    8 July 1979, currently being modified
Legal system:
    based on French civil law system and customary law
National holiday:
    Congolese National Day, 15 August (1960)
Executive branch:
    president, prime minister, Council of Ministers (cabinet)
Legislative branch:
    a transitional National Assembly
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court (Cour Supreme)
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Denis SASSOU-NGUESSO (since 8 February 1979); stripped of most
    powers by National Conference in May 1991
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Andre MILONGO (since May 1991)
Political parties and leaders:
    Congolese Labor Party (PCT), President Denis SASSOU-NGUESSO, leader; note -
    multiparty system legalized, with over 50 parties established
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  National Assembly:
    transitional body selected by National Conference in May 1991; election for
    new legislative body to be held spring 1992
  President:
    last held 26-31 July 1989 (next to be held June 1992); results - President
    SASSOU-NGUESSO unanimously reelected leader of the PCT by the Party
    Congress, which automatically made him president
Communists:
    small number of Communists and sympathizers
Other political or pressure groups:
    Union of Congolese Socialist Youth (UJSC), Congolese Trade Union Congress
    (CSC), Revolutionary Union of Congolese Women (URFC), General Union of
    Congolese Pupils and Students (UGEEC)
Member of:
    ACCT, ACP, AfDB, BDEAC, CCC, CEEAC, ECA, FAO, FZ, G-77, GATT, IBRD, ICAO,
    IDA, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, ITU, LORCS, NAM,
    OAU, UDEAC, UN, UNAVEM, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO,
    WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Roger ISSOMBO; Chancery at 4891 Colorado Avenue NW, Washington,
    DC 20011; telephone (202) 726-5500

:Congo Government

  US:
    Ambassador James Daniel PHILLIPS; Embassy at Avenue Amilcar Cabral,
    Brazzaville (mailing address is B. P. 1015, Brazzaville, or Box C, APO AE
    09828); telephone (242) 83-20-70; FAX [242] 83-63-38
Flag:
    red, divided diagonally from the lower hoist side by a yellow band; the
    upper triangle (hoist side) is green and the lower triangle is red; uses the
    popular pan-African colors of Ethiopia

:Congo Economy

Overview:
    Congo's economy is a mixture of village agriculture and handicrafts, a
    beginning industrial sector based largely on oil, supporting services, and a
    government characterized by budget problems and overstaffing. A reform
    program, supported by the IMF and World Bank, ran into difficulties in
    1990-91 because of problems in changing to a democratic political regime and
    a heavy debt-servicing burden. Oil has supplanted forestry as the mainstay
    of the economy, providing about two-thirds of government revenues and
    exports. In the early 1980s rapidly rising oil revenues enabled Congo to
    finance large-scale development projects with growth averaging 5% annually,
    one of the highest rates in Africa. During the period 1987-91, however,
    growth has slowed to an average of roughly 1.5% annually, only half the
    population growth rate.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $2.4 billion, per capita $1,070; real growth rate
    0.5% (1990 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    4.6% (1989 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    NA%
Budget:
    revenues $522 million; expenditures $767 million, including capital
    expenditures of $141 million (1989)
Exports:
    $751 million (f.o.b., 1988)
  commodities:
    crude petroleum 72%, lumber, plywood, coffee, cocoa, sugar, diamonds
  partners:
    US, France, other EC
Imports:
    $564 million (c.i.f., 1988)
  commodities:
    foodstuffs, consumer goods, intermediate manufactures, capital equipment
  partners:
    France, Italy, other EC, US, FRG, Spain, Japan, Brazil
External debt:
    $4.5 billion (December 1988)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 1.2% (1989); accounts for 33% of GDP, including petroleum
Electricity:
    140,000 kW capacity; 315 million kWh produced, 135 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    crude oil, cement, sawmills, brewery, sugar mill, palm oil, soap, cigarettes
Agriculture:
    accounts for 10% of GDP (including fishing and forestry); cassava accounts
    for 90% of food output; other crops - rice, corn, peanuts, vegetables; cash
    crops include coffee and cocoa; forest products important export earner;
    imports over 90% of food needs
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $60 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $2.3 billion; OPEC
    bilateral aid (1979-89), $15 million; Communist countries (1970-89), $338
    million
Currency:
    Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (plural - francs); 1 CFA franc (CFAF)
    = 100 centimes

:Congo Economy

Exchange rates:
    Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (CFAF) per US$1 - 269.01 (January
    1992), 282.11 (1991), 272.26 (1990), 319.01 (1989), 297.85 (1988), 300.54
    (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Congo Communications

Railroads:
    797 km, 1.067-meter gauge, single track (includes 285 km that are privately
    owned)
Highways:
    11,960 km total; 560 km paved; 850 km gravel and laterite; 5,350 km improved
    earth; 5,200 km unimproved earth
Inland waterways:
    the Congo and Ubangi (Oubangui) Rivers provide 1,120 km of commercially
    navigable water transport; the rest are used for local traffic only
Pipelines:
    crude oil 25 km
Ports:
    Pointe-Noire (ocean port), Brazzaville (river port)
Civil air:
    4 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    46 total, 42 usable; 6 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 1 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 17 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    services adequate for government use; primary network is composed of radio
    relay routes and coaxial cables; key centers are Brazzaville, Pointe-Noire,
    and Loubomo; 18,100 telephones; broadcast stations - 4 AM, 1 FM, 4 TV; 1
    Atlantic Ocean satellite earth station

:Congo Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Navy (including Naval Infantry), Air Force, National Police
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 526,058; 267,393 fit for military service; 23,884 reach
    military age (20) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $100 million, 4.6% of GDP (1987 est.)

:Cook Islands Geography

Total area:
    240 km2
Land area:
    240 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly less than 1.3 times the size of Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    120 km
Maritime claims:
  Continental shelf:
    edge of continental margin or minimum of 200 nm
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    tropical; moderated by trade winds
Terrain:
    low coral atolls in north; volcanic, hilly islands in south
Natural resources:
    negligible
Land use:
    arable land 4%; permanent crops 22%; meadows and pastures 0%; forest and
    woodland 0%; other 74%
Environment:
    subject to typhoons from November to March
Note:
    located 4,500 km south of Hawaii in the South Pacific Ocean

:Cook Islands People

Population:
    17,977 (July 1992), growth rate 0.5% (1992)
Birth rate:
    22 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    6 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    -10 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    25 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    69 years male, 73 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    3.0 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Cook Islander(s); adjective - Cook Islander
Ethnic divisions:
    Polynesian (full blood) 81.3%, Polynesian and European 7.7%, Polynesian and
    other 7.7%, European 2.4%, other 0.9%
Religions:
    Christian, majority of populace members of Cook Islands Christian Church
Languages:
    English (official); Maori
Literacy:
    NA% (male NA%, female NA%)
Labor force:
    5,810; agriculture 29%, government 27%, services 25%, industry 15%, and
    other 4% (1981)
Organized labor:
    NA

:Cook Islands Government

Long-form name:
    none
Type:
    self-governing in free association with New Zealand; Cook Islands fully
    responsible for internal affairs; New Zealand retains responsibility for
    external affairs, in consultation with the Cook Islands
Capital:
    Avarua
Administrative divisions:
    none
Independence:
    became self-governing in free association with New Zealand on 4 August 1965
    and has the right at any time to move to full independence by unilateral
    action
Constitution:
    4 August 1965
National holiday:
    Constitution Day, 4 August
Executive branch:
    British monarch, representative of the UK, representative of New Zealand,
    prime minister, deputy prime minister, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Parliament; note - the House of Arikis (chiefs) advises on
    traditional matters, but has no legislative powers
Judicial branch:
    High Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952); Representative of the UK Sir
    Tangaroa TANGAROA (since NA); Representative of New Zealand Adrian SINCOCK
    (since NA)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Geoffrey HENRY (since 1 February 1989); Deputy Prime Minister
    Inatio AKARURU (since February 1989)
Political parties and leaders:
    Cook Islands Party, Geoffrey HENRY; Democratic Tumu Party, Vincent INGRAM;
    Democratic Party, Terepai MAOATE; Cook Islands Labor Party, Rena JONASSEN;
    Cook Islands People's Party, Sadaraka SADARAKA
Suffrage:
    universal adult at age NA
Elections:
  Parliament:
    last held 19 January 1989 (next to be held by January 1994); results -
    percent of vote by party NA; seats - (24 total) Cook Islands Party 12,
    Democratic Tumu Party 2, opposition coalition (including Democratic Party)
    9, independent 1
Member of:
    AsDB, ESCAP (associate), FAO, ICAO, IOC, SPC, SPF, UNESCO, WHO
Diplomatic representation:
    none (self-governing in free association with New Zealand)
Flag:
    blue, with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side quadrant and a large
    circle of 15 white five-pointed stars (one for every island) centered in the
    outer half of the flag

:Cook Islands Economy

Overview:
    Agriculture provides the economic base. The major export earners are fruit,
    copra, and clothing. Manufacturing activities are limited to a
    fruit-processing plant and several clothing factories. Economic development
    is hindered by the isolation of the islands from foreign markets and a lack
    of natural resources and good transportation links. A large trade deficit is
    annually made up for by remittances from emigrants and from foreign aid.
    Current economic development plans call for exploiting the tourism potential
    and expanding the fishing industry.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $40.0 million, per capita $2,200 (1988 est.);
    real growth rate 5.3% (1986-88 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    8.0% (1988)
Unemployment rate:
    NA%
Budget:
    revenues $33.8 million; expenditures $34.4 million, including capital
    expenditures of $NA (1990 est.)
Exports:
    $4.0 million (f.o.b., 1988)
  commodities:
    copra, fresh and canned fruit, clothing
  partners:
    NZ 80%, Japan
Imports:
    $38.7 million (c.i.f., 1988)
  commodities:
    foodstuffs, textiles, fuels, timber
  partners:
    NZ 49%, Japan, Australia, US
External debt:
    $NA
Industrial production:
    growth rate NA%
Electricity:
    14,000 kW capacity; 21 million kWh produced, 1,170 kWh per capita (1990)
Industries:
    fruit processing, tourism
Agriculture:
    export crops - copra, citrus fruits, pineapples, tomatoes, bananas;
    subsistence crops - yams, taro
Economic aid:
    Western (non-US) countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89),
    $128 million
Currency:
    New Zealand dollar (plural - dollars); 1 New Zealand dollar (NZ$) = 100
    cents
Exchange rates:
    New Zealand dollars (NZ$) per US$1 - 1.8502 (January 1992), 1.7266 (1991),
    1.6750 (1990), 1.6711 (1989), 1.5244 (1988), 1.6886 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    1 April - 31 March

:Cook Islands Communications

Highways:
    187 km total (1980); 35 km paved, 35 km gravel, 84 km improved earth, 33 km
    unimproved earth
Ports:
    Avatiu
Merchant marine:
    1 cargo ship (1,000 or over) totaling 1,464 GRT/2,181 DWT
Civil air:
    no major transport aircraft
Airports:
    6 total, 6 usable; 1 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways over
    2,439 m; 4 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    broadcast stations - 2 AM, no FM, no TV; 10,000 radio receivers; 2,052
    telephones; 1 Pacific Ocean INTELSAT earth station

:Cook Islands Defense Forces

Note:
    defense is the responsibility of New Zealand

:Coral Sea Islands Geography

Total area:
    less than 3 km2
Land area:
    less than 3 km2; includes numerous small islands and reefs scattered over a
    sea area of about 1 million km2, with Willis Islets the most important
Comparative area:
    undetermined
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    3,095 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive fishing zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    3 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    tropical
Terrain:
    sand and coral reefs and islands (or cays)
Natural resources:
    negligible
Land use:
    arable land 0%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 0%; forest and
    woodland 0%; other, mostly grass or scrub cover 100%; Lihou Reef Reserve and
    Coringa-Herald Reserve were declared National Nature Reserves on 3 August
    1982
Environment:
    subject to occasional tropical cyclones; no permanent fresh water; important
    nesting area for birds and turtles
Note:
    the islands are located just off the northeast coast of Australia in the
    Coral Sea

:Coral Sea Islands People

Population:
    3 meteorologists (1992)

:Coral Sea Islands Government

Long-form name:
    Coral Sea Islands Territory
Type:
    territory of Australia administered by the Minister for Arts, Sport, the
    Environment, Tourism, and Territories Roslyn KELLY
Capital:
    none; administered from Canberra, Australia
Flag:
    the flag of Australia is used

:Coral Sea Islands Economy

Overview:
    no economic activity

:Coral Sea Islands Communications

Ports:
    none; offshore anchorages only

:Coral Sea Islands Defense Forces

Note:
    defense is the responsibility of Australia; visited regularly by the Royal
    Australian Navy; Australia has control over the activities of visitors

:Costa Rica Geography

Total area:
    51,100 km2
Land area:
    50,660 km2; includes Isla del Coco
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than West Virginia
Land boundaries:
    639 km; Nicaragua 309 km, Panama 330 km
Coastline:
    1,290 km
Maritime claims:
  Continental shelf:
    200 nm
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    tropical; dry season (December to April); rainy season (May to November)
Terrain:
    coastal plains separated by rugged mountains
Natural resources:
    hydropower potential
Land use:
    arable land 6%; permanent crops 7%; meadows and pastures 45%; forest and
    woodland 34%; other 8%; includes irrigated 1%
Environment:
    subject to occasional earthquakes, hurricanes along Atlantic coast; frequent
    flooding of lowlands at onset of rainy season; active volcanoes;
    deforestation; soil erosion

:Costa Rica People

Population:
    3,187,085 (July 1992), growth rate 2.4% (1992)
Birth rate:
    27 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    4 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    1 migrant/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    12 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    75 years male, 79 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    3.2 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Costa Rican(s); adjective - Costa Rican
Ethnic divisions:
    white (including mestizo) 96%, black 2%, Indian 1%, Chinese 1%
Religions:
    Roman Catholic 95%
Languages:
    Spanish (official), English spoken around Puerto Limon
Literacy:
    93% (male 93%, female 93%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    868,300; industry and commerce 35.1%, government and services 33%,
    agriculture 27%, other 4.9% (1985 est.)
Organized labor:
    15.1% of labor force

:Costa Rica Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Costa Rica
Type:
    democratic republic
Capital:
    San Jose
Administrative divisions:
    7 provinces (provincias, singular - provincia); Alajuela, Cartago,
    Guanacaste, Heredia, Limon, Puntarenas, San Jose
Independence:
    15 September 1821 (from Spain)
Constitution:
    9 November 1949
Legal system:
    based on Spanish civil law system; judicial review of legislative acts in
    the Supreme Court; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 15 September (1821)
Executive branch:
    president, two vice presidents, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Legislative Assembly (Asamblea Legislativa)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court (Corte Suprema)
Leaders:
  Chief of State and Head of Government:
    President Rafael Angel CALDERON Fournier (since 8 May 1990); First Vice
    President German SERRANO Pinto (since 8 May 1990); Second Vice President
    Arnoldo LOPEZ Echandi (since 8 May 1990)
Political parties and leaders:
    National Liberation Party (PLN), Carlos Manuel CASTILLO Morales; Social
    Christian Unity Party (PUSC), Rafael Angel CALDERON Fournier; Marxist
    Popular Vanguard Party (PVP), Humberto VARGAS Carbonell; New Republic
    Movement (MNR), Sergio Erick ARDON Ramirez; Progressive Party (PP), Isaac
    Felipe AZOFEIFA Bolanos; People's Party of Costa Rica (PPC), Lenin CHACON
    Vargas; Radical Democratic Party (PRD), Juan Jose ECHEVERRIA Brealey
Suffrage:
    universal and compulsory at age 18
Elections:
  Legislative Assembly:
    last held 4 February 1990 (next to be held February 1994); results - percent
    of vote by party NA; seats - (57 total) PUSC 29, PLN 25, PVP/PPC 1, regional
    parties 2
  President:
    last held 4 February 1990 (next to be held February 1994); results - Rafael
    Angel CALDERON Fournier 51%, Carlos Manuel CASTILLO 47%
Communists:
    7,500 members and sympathizers
Other political or pressure groups:
    Costa Rican Confederation of Democratic Workers (CCTD; Liberation Party
    affiliate), Confederated Union of Workers (CUT; Communist Party affiliate),
    Authentic Confederation of Democratic Workers (CATD; Communist Party
    affiliate), Chamber of Coffee Growers, National Association for Economic
    Development (ANFE), Free Costa Rica Movement (MCRL; rightwing militants),
    National Association of Educators (ANDE)

:Costa Rica Government

Member of:
    AG (observer), BCIE, CACM, ECLAC, FAO, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU,
    IDA, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, IOM, ITU, LAES,
    LORCS, NAM (observer), OAS, OPANAL, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL,
    WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Gonzalo FACIO Segreda; Chancery at Suite 211, 1825 Connecticut
    Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20009; telephone (202) 234-2945 through 2947;
    there are Costa Rican Consulates General at Albuquerque, Houston, Los
    Angeles, Miami, New Orleans, New York, San Diego, San Francisco, and San
    Juan (Puerto Rico), and a Consulate in Buffalo
  US:
    Ambassador Luis GUINOT, Jr.; Embassy at Pavas Road, San Jose (mailing
    address is APO AA 34020); telephone [506] 20-39-39 FAX (506) 20-2305
Flag:
    five horizontal bands of blue (top), white, red (double width), white, and
    blue, with the coat of arms in a white disk on the hoist side of the red
    band

:Costa Rica Economy

Overview:
    In 1991 the economy grew at an estimated 2.5%, down somewhat from the 3.6%
    gain of 1990 and below the strong 5.5% gain of 1989. Increases in
    agricultural production (on the strength of good coffee and banana crops)
    and in construction have been offset by lower rates of growth for industry.
    In 1991 consumer prices rose by 27%, about the same as in 1990. The trade
    deficit of $270 million was substantially below the 1990 deficit of $677
    million. Unemployment is officially reported at 4.6%, but much
    underemployment remains. External debt, on a per capita basis, is among the
    world's highest.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $5.9 billion, per capita $1,900; real growth rate
    2.5% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    27% (1991 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    4.6% (1991)
Budget:
    revenues $831 million; expenditures $1.08 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $NA (1990 est.)
Exports:
    $1.5 billion (f.o.b., 1991 est.)
  commodities:
    coffee, bananas, textiles, sugar
  partners:
    US 75%, Germany, Guatemala, Netherlands, UK, Japan
Imports:
    $1.8 billion (c.i.f., 1991 est.)
  commodities:
    petroleum, machinery, consumer durables, chemicals, fertilizer, foodstuffs
  partners:
    US 40%, Japan, Guatemala, Germany
External debt:
    $4.5 billion (1990)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 2.3% (1990 est.); accounts for 23% of GDP
Electricity:
    927,000 kW capacity; 3,408 million kWh produced, 1,095 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    food processing, textiles and clothing, construction materials, fertilizer,
    plastic products
Agriculture:
    accounts for 20-25% of GDP and 70% of exports; cash commodities - coffee,
    beef, bananas, sugar; other food crops include corn, rice, beans, potatoes;
    normally self-sufficient in food except for grain; depletion of forest
    resources resulting in lower timber output
Illicit drugs:
    illicit production of cannabis on small scattered plots; transshipment
    country for cocaine from South America
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $1.4 billion; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $935 million;
    Communist countries (1971-89), $27 million
Currency:
    Costa Rican colon (plural - colones); 1 Costa Rican colon (C) = 100 centimos
Exchange rates:
    Costa Rican colones (C) per US$1 - 136.35 (January 1992), 122.43 (1991),
    91.58 (1990), 81.504 (1989), 75.805 (1988), 62.776 (1987)

:Costa Rica Economy

Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Costa Rica Communications

Railroads:
    950 km total, all 1.067-meter gauge; 260 km electrified
Highways:
    15,400 km total; 7,030 km paved, 7,010 km gravel, 1,360 km unimproved earth
Inland waterways:
    about 730 km, seasonally navigable
Pipelines:
    petroleum products 176 km
Ports:
    Puerto Limon, Caldera, Golfito, Moin, Puntarenas
Merchant marine:
    1 cargo ship (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 2,878 GRT/4,506 DWT
Civil air:
    11 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    164 total, 149 usable; 28 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 1 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 10 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    very good domestic telephone service; 292,000 telephones; connection into
    Central American Microwave System; broadcast stations - 71 AM, no FM, 18 TV,
    13 shortwave; 1 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT earth station

:Costa Rica Defense Forces

Branches:
    Civil Guard, Rural Assistance Guard; note - Constitution prohibits armed
    forces
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 829,576; 559,575 fit for military service; 31,828 reach
    military age (18) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $22 million, 0.5% of GDP (1989)

:Croatia Geography

Total area:
    56,538 km2
Land area:
    56,410 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than West Virginia
Land boundaries:
    1,843 km; Bosnia and Hercegovina (east) 751 km, Bosnia and Hercegovina
    (southeast) 91 km, Hungary 292 km, Serbia and Montenegro 254 km, Slovenia
    455 km
Coastline:
    5,790 km; mainland 1,778 km, islands 4,012 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    NA nm
  Continental shelf:
    200-meter depth or to depth of exploitation
  Exclusive economic zone:
    12 nm
  Exclusive fishing zone:
    12 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    Serbian enclaves in eastern Slavonia and along the western Bosnia and
    Hercegovinian border; dispute with Slovenia over fishing rights in Adriatic
Climate:
    Mediterranean and continental; continental climate predominant with hot
    summers and cold winters; mild winters, dry summers along coast
Terrain:
    geographically diverse; flat plains along Hungarian border, low mountains
    and highlands near Adriatic coast, coastline, and islands
Natural resources:
    oil, some coal, bauxite, low-grade iron ore, calcium, natural asphalt,
    silica, mica, clays, salt, fruit, livestock
Land use:
    32% arable land; 20% permanent crops; 18% meadows and pastures; 15% forest
    and woodland; 9% other; includes 5% irrigated
Environment:
    air pollution from metallurgical plants; damaged forest; coastal pollution
    from industrial and domestic waste; subject to frequent and destructive
    earthquakes
Note:
    controls most land routes from Western Europe to Aegean Sea and Turkish
    Straits

:Croatia People

Population:
    4,784,000 (July 1991), growth rate 0.39% (for the period 1981-91)
Birth rate:
    12.2 births/1,000 population (1991)
Death rate:
    11.3 deaths/1,000 population (1991)
Net migration rate:
    NA migrants/1,000 population (1991)
Infant mortality rate:
    10 deaths/1,000 live births (1990)
Life expectancy at birth:
    67 years male, 74 years female (1980-82)
Total fertility rate:
    NA children born/woman (1991)
Nationality:
    noun - Croat(s); adjective - Croatian
Ethnic divisions:
    Croat 78%, Serb 12%, Muslims 0.9%, Hungarian 0.5%, Slovenian 0.5%, others
    7.8%
Religions:
    Catholic 76.5%, Orthodox 11.1%, Slavic Muslim 1.2%, Protestant 1.4%, others
    and unknown 11%
Languages:
    Serbo-Croatian 96%
Literacy:
    96.5% (male 98.6%, female 94.5%) age 10 and over can read and write (1991
    census)
Labor force:
    1,509,489; industry and mining 37%, agriculture 4%, government NA%, other
Organized labor:
    NA

:Croatia Government

Long-form name:
    None
Type:
    parliamentary democracy
Capital:
    Zagreb
Administrative divisions:
    102 districts (opcine, singular - opcina)
Independence:
    June 1991 from Yugoslavia
Constitution:
    promulgated on 22 December 1990
Legal system:
    based on civil law system; judicial/no judicial review of legislative acts;
    does/does not accept compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
National holiday:
    30 May, Statehood Day (1990)
Executive branch:
    president, prime minister
Legislative branch:
    bicameral
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court, Constitutional Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Franjo TUDJMAN (since April 1990), Vice President NA (since NA)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Franjo GREGURIC (since August 1991), Deputy Prime Minister
    Mila RAMLJAK (since NA )
Political parties and leaders:
    Christian Democratic Union, TUDJMAN; Croatian Democratic Union (HDZ),
    Stjepan Mesic; Croatian National Party, Savka DABCEVIC-KUCAR; Croatian
    Christian Democratic Party (HKDS), Ivan CESAR; Croatian Party of Rights,
    Dobroslav Paraga; Croatian Social Liberal Party (HSLS), Drazen BUDISA
Suffrage:
    at age 16 if employed, universal at age 18
Elections:
  Parliament:
    last held May 1990 (next to be held NA); results - HDZ won 205 seats; seats
    - 349 (total)
  President:
    NA
Other political or pressure groups:
    NA
Member of:
    CSCE
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Dr. Franc Vinko GOLEM, Office of Republic of Croatia, 256
    Massachusetts Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20036; telephone (202) 543-5586
  US:
    Ambassador NA; Embassy at NA (mailing address is APO New York is 09862);
    telephone NA
Flag:
    red, white, and blue with Croatian coat of arms (red and white checkered)

:Croatia Economy

Overview:
    Before the political disintegration of Yugoslavia, the republic of Croatia
    stood next to Slovenia as the most prosperous and industrialized area, with
    a per capita output roughly comparable to that of Portugal and perhaps
    one-third above the Yugoslav average. Serbia and the Serb-dominated army of
    the old Yugoslavia, however, have seized Croatian territory, and the
    overriding determinant of Croatia's long-term economic prospects will be the
    final border settlement. Under the most favorable circumstances, Croatia
    will retain the Dalmatian coast with its major tourist attractions and
    Slavonia with its oilfields and rich agricultural land. Even so, Croatia
    would face monumental problems stemming from: the legacy of longtime
    Communist mismanagement of the economy; large foreign debt; damage during
    the fighting to bridges, factories, powerlines, buildings, and houses; and
    the disruption of economic ties to Serbia and the other former Yugoslav
    republics. At the minimum, extensive Western aid and investment, especially
    in the tourist and oil industries, would seem necessary to salvage a
    desperate economic situation. However, peace and political stability must
    come first.
GDP:
    NA - $26.3 billion, per capita $5,600; real growth rate -25% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    14.3% (March 1992)
Unemployment rate:
    20% (December 1991)
Budget:
    revenues $NA million; expenditures $NA million, including capital
    expenditures of $NA million
Exports:
    $2.9 billion (1990)
  commodities:
    machinery and transport equipment (30%), other manufacturers (37%),
    chemicals (11%), food and live animals (9%), raw materials (6.5%), fuels and
    lubricants (5%)
  partners:
    principally the other former Yugoslav republics
Imports:
    $4.4 billion (1990)
  commodities:
    machinery and transport equipment (21%), fuels and lubricants (19%), food
    and live animals (16%), chemicals (14%), manufactured goods (13%),
    miscellaneous manufactured articles (9%), raw materials (6.5%), beverages
    and tobacco (1%)
  partners:
    principally other former Yugoslav republics
External debt:
    $2.6 billion (may assume some part of foreign debt of former Yugoslavia)
Industrial production:
    declined as much as 11% in 1990 and probably another 29% in 1991
Electricity:
    3,570,000 kW capacity; 8,830 million kWh produced, 1,855 kWh per capita
    1991)
Industries:
    chemicals and plastics, machine tools, fabricated metal, electronics, pig
    iron and rolled steel products, aluminum reduction, paper, wood products
    (including furniture), building materials (including cement), textiles,
    shipbuilding, petroleum and petroleum refining, food processing and
    beverages

:Croatia Economy

Agriculture:
    Croatia normally produces a food surplus; most agricultural land in private
    hands and concentrated in Croat-majority districts in Slavonia and Istria;
    much of Slavonia's land has been put out of production by fighting; wheat,
    corn, sugar beets, sunflowers, alfalfa, and clover are main crops in
    Slavonia; central Croatian highlands are less fertile but support cereal
    production, orchards, vineyards, livestock breeding, and dairy farming;
    coastal areas and offshore islands grow olives, citrus fruits, and
    vegetables
Economic aid:
    NA
Currency:
    Croatian dinar(s)
Exchange rates:
    Croatian dinar per US $1 - 60.00 (April 1992)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Croatia Communications

Railroads:
    2,698 km (34.5% electrified)
Highways:
    32,071 km total (1990); 23,305 km paved, 8,439 km gravel, 327 km earth
Inland waterways:
    785 km perennially navigable
Pipelines:
    crude oil 670 km, petroleum products 20 km, natural gas 310 km
Ports:
    maritime - Rijeka, Split, Kardeljevo (Ploce); inland - Vukovar, Osijek,
    Sisak, Vinkovci
Merchant marine:
    11 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 60,802 GRT/65,560 DWT; includes 1
    cargo, 3 roll-on/roll-off, 5 passenger ferries, 2 bulk carriers; note - also
    controlled by Croatian shipowners are 196 ships (1,000 GRT or over) under
    flags of convenience - primarily Malta and St. Vincent - totaling 2,593,429
    GRT/4,101,119 DWT; includes 91 general cargo, 7 roll-on/ roll-off, 6
    refrigerated cargo, 13 container ships, 3 multifunction large load carriers,
    52 bulk carriers, 3 passenger ships, 11 petroleum tankers, 4 chemical
    tankers, 6 service vessels
Civil air:
    NA major transport aircraft
Airports:
    8 total, NA usable; NA with permanent-surface runways; NA with runways over
    3,659 m; 7 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; NA with runways 1,220-2,439 m; 1 with
    runways 900 m
Telecommunications:
    350,000 telephones; broadcast stations - 14 AM, 8 FM, 12 (2 repeaters) TV;
    1,100,000 radios; 1,027,000 TVs; NA submarine coaxial cables; satellite
    ground stations - none

:Croatia Defense Forces

Branches:
    Ground Forces, Naval Forces, Air and Air Defense Forces, Frontier Guard,
    Home Guard, Civil Defense
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 1,188,576; NA fit for military service; 42,664 reach military
    age (18) annually
Defense expenditures:
    $NA, NA% of GDP

:Cuba Geography

Total area:
    110,860 km2
Land area:
    110,860 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than Pennsylvania
Land boundaries:
    29.1 km; US Naval Base at Guantanamo 29.1 km
  note:
    Guantanamo is leased and as such remains part of Cuba
Coastline:
    3,735 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    US Naval Base at Guantanamo is leased to US and only mutual agreement or US
    abandonment of the area can terminate the lease
Climate:
    tropical; moderated by trade winds; dry season (November to April); rainy
    season (May to October)
Terrain:
    mostly flat to rolling plains with rugged hills and mountains in the
    southeast
Natural resources:
    cobalt, nickel, iron ore, copper, manganese, salt, timber, silica
Land use:
    arable land 23%; permanent crops 6%; meadows and pastures 23%; forest and
    woodland 17%; other 31%; includes irrigated 10%
Environment:
    averages one hurricane every other year
Note:
    largest country in Caribbean; 145 km south of Florida

:Cuba People

Population:
    10,846,821 (July 1992), growth rate 1.0% (1992)
Birth rate:
    17 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    6 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    -1 migrant/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    11 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    74 years male, 79 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    1.8 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Cuban(s); adjective - Cuban
Ethnic divisions:
    mulatto 51%, white 37%, black 11%, Chinese 1%
Religions:
    85% nominally Roman Catholic before Castro assumed power
Languages:
    Spanish
Literacy:
    94% (male 95%, female 93%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    3,578,800 in state sector; services and government 30%, industry 22%,
    agriculture 20%, commerce 11%, construction 10%, transportation and
    communications 7% (June 1990); economically active population 4,620,800
    (1988)
Organized labor:
    Workers Central Union of Cuba (CTC), only labor federation approved by
    government; 2,910,000 members; the CTC is an umbrella organization composed
    of 17 member unions

:Cuba Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Cuba
Type:
    Communist state
Capital:
    Havana
Administrative divisions:
    14 provinces (provincias, singular - provincia) and 1 special municipality*
    (municipio especial); Camaguey, Ciego de Avila, Cienfuegos, Ciudad de La
    Habana, Granma, Guantanamo, Holguin, Isla de la Juventud*, La Habana, Las
    Tunas, Matanzas, Pinar del Rio, Sancti Spiritus, Santiago de Cuba, Villa
    Clara
Independence:
    20 May 1902 (from Spain 10 December 1898); administered by the US from 1898
    to 1902
Constitution:
    24 February 1976
Legal system:
    based on Spanish and American law, with large elements of Communist legal
    theory; does not accept compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
National holiday:
    Rebellion Day, 26 July (1953)
Executive branch:
    president of the Council of State, first vice president of the Council of
    State, Council of State, president of the Council of Ministers, first vice
    president of the Council of Ministers, Council of Ministers
Legislative branch:
    unicameral National Assembly of the People's Power (Asamblea Nacional del
    Poder Popular)
Judicial branch:
    People's Supreme Court (Tribunal Supremo Popular)
Leaders:
  Chief of State and Head of Government:
    President of the Council of State and President of the Council of Ministers
    Fidel CASTRO Ruz (became Prime Minister in February 1959 and President since
    2 December 1976); First Vice President of the Council of State and First
    Vice President of the Council of Ministers Gen. Raul CASTRO Ruz (since 2
    December 1976)
Political parties and leaders:
    only party - Cuban Communist Party (PCC), Fidel CASTRO Ruz, first secretary
Suffrage:
    universal at age 16
Elections:
  National Assembly of the People's Power:
    last held December 1986 (next to be held before December 1992); results -
    PCC is the only party; seats - (510 total) indirectly elected
Communists:
    about 600,000 full and candidate members
Member of:
    CCC, ECLAC, FAO, G-77, GATT, IAEA, IBEC, ICAO, IFAD, ILO, IMO, INTERPOL,
    IOC, ISO, ITU, LAES, LORCS, NAM, OAS (excluded from formal participation
    since 1962), PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO,
    WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    none; protecting power in the US is Switzerland - Cuban Interests Section;
    position vacant since March 1992; 2630 and 2639 16th Street NW, Washington,
    DC 20009; telephone (202) 797-8518 or 8519, 8520, 8609, 8610

:Cuba Government

  US:
    protecting power in Cuba is Switzerland - US Interests Section, Swiss
    Embassy; Principal Officer Alan H. FLANIGAN; Calzada entre L Y M, Vedado
    Seccion, Havana (mailing address is USINT, Swiss Embassy, Havana, Calzada
    Entre L Y M, Vedado); telephone 32-0051, 32-0543
Flag:
    five equal horizontal bands of blue (top and bottom) alternating with white;
    a red equilateral triangle based on the hoist side bears a white
    five-pointed star in the center

:Cuba Economy

Overview:
    The economy, centrally planned and largely state owned, is highly dependent
    on the agricultural sector and foreign trade. Sugar provided about
    two-thirds of export revenues in 1991, and over half was exported to the
    former Soviet republics. The economy has stagnated since 1985 under policies
    that have deemphasized material incentives in the workplace, abolished
    farmers' informal produce markets, and raised prices of government-supplied
    goods and services. In 1990 the economy probably fell 5% largely as a result
    of declining trade with the former Soviet Union and Eastern Europe. Recently
    the government has been trying to increase trade with Latin America and
    China. Cuba has had difficulty servicing its foreign debt since 1982. The
    government currently is encouraging foreign investment in tourist facilities
    and in industrial plants idled by falling imports from the former Soviet
    Union. Other investment priorities include sugar, basic foods, and nickel.
    The annual Soviet subsidy dropped from $4 billion in 1990 to about $1
    billion in 1991 because of a lower price paid for Cuban sugar and a sharp
    decline in Soviet exports to Cuba. The former Soviet republics have
    indicated they will no longer extend aid to Cuba beginning in 1992. Instead
    of highly subsidized trade, Cuba has been shifting to trade at market prices
    in convertible currencies. Because of increasingly severe shortages of
    fuels, industrial raw materials, and spare parts, aggregate output dropped
    by one-fifth in 1991.
GNP:
    $17 billion, per capita $1,580; real growth rate -20% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    NA%
Budget:
    revenues $12.46 billion; expenditures $14.45 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $NA (1990 est.)
Exports:
    $3.6 billion (f.o.b., 1991 est.)
  commodities:
    sugar, nickel, medical products, shellfish, citrus, tobacco, coffee
  partners:
    former USSR 63%, China 6%, Canada 4%, Japan 4% (1991 est.)
Imports:
    $3.7 billion (c.i.f., 1991 est.)
  commodities:
    petroleum, capital goods, industrial raw materials, food
  partners:
    former USSR 47%, Spain 8%, China 6%, Argentina 5%, Italy 4%, Mexico 3% (1991
    est.)
External debt:
    $6.8 billion (convertible currency, July 1989)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 0%; accounts for 45% of GDP (1989)
Electricity:
    3,889,000 kW capacity; 16,272 million kWh produced, 1,516 kWh per capita
    (1991)
Industries:
    sugar milling, petroleum refining, food and tobacco processing, textiles,
    chemicals, paper and wood products, metals (particularly nickel), cement,
    fertilizers, consumer goods, agricultural machinery
Agriculture:
    accounts for 11% of GNP (including fishing and forestry); key commercial
    crops - sugarcane, tobacco, and citrus fruits; other products - coffee,
    rice, potatoes, meat, beans; world's largest sugar exporter; not
    self-sufficient in food (excluding sugar)

:Cuba Economy

Economic aid:
    Western (non-US) countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89),
    $710 million; Communist countries (1970-89), $18.5 billion
Currency:
    Cuban peso (plural - pesos); 1 Cuban peso (Cu$) = 100 centavos
Exchange rates:
    Cuban pesos (Cu$) per US$1 - 1.0000 (linked to the US dollar)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Cuba Communications

Railroads:
    12,947 km total; Cuban National Railways operates 5,053 km of 1.435-meter
    gauge track; 151.7 km electrified; 7,742 km of sugar plantation lines of
    0.914-m and 1.435-m gauge
Highways:
    26,477 km total; 14,477 km paved, 12,000 km gravel and earth surfaced (1989
    est.)
Inland waterways:
    240 km
Ports:
    Cienfuegos, Havana, Mariel, Matanzas, Santiago de Cuba; 7 secondary, 35
    minor
Merchant marine:
    77 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 537,464 GRT/755,824 DWT; includes 46
    cargo, 10 refrigerated cargo, 1 cargo/training, 11 petroleum tanker, 1
    chemical tanker, 4 liquefied gas, 4 bulk; note - Cuba beneficially owns an
    additional 45 ships (1,000 GRT and over) totaling 574,047 DWT under the
    registry of Panama, Cyprus, and Malta
Civil air:
    88 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    189 total, 167 usable; 73 with permanent-surface runways; 3 with runways
    over 3,659 m; 12 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 18 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    broadcast stations - 150 AM, 5 FM, 58 TV; 1,530,000 TVs; 2,140,000 radios;
    229,000 telephones; 1 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT earth station

:Cuba Defense Forces

Branches:
    Revolutionary Armed Forces (including Ground Forces, Revolutionary Navy
    (MGR), Air and Air Defense Force[DAAFR]), Ministry of Interior and Ministry
    of Defense Special Troops, Border Guard Troops, Territorial Militia Troops,
    Youth Labor Army, Civil Defense, National Revolutionary Police
Manpower availability:
    eligible 15-49, 6,130,641; of the 3,076,276 males 15-49, 1,925,648 are fit
    for military service; of the 3,054,365 females 15-49, 1,907,281 are fit for
    military service; 97,973 males and 94,514 females reach military age (17)
    annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $1.2-1.4 billion, 6% of GNP (1989 est.)

:Cyprus Geography

Total area:
    9,250 km2
Land area:
    9,240 km2
Comparative area:
    about 0.7 times the size of Connecticut
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    648 km
Maritime claims:
  Continental shelf:
    200 m (depth) or to depth of exploitation
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    1974 hostilities divided the island into two de facto autonomous areas - a
    Greek area controlled by the Cypriot Government (60% of the island's land
    area) and a Turkish-Cypriot area (35% of the island) that are separated by a
    narrow UN buffer zone; in addition, there are two UK sovereign base areas
    (about 5% of the island's land area)
Climate:
    temperate, Mediterranean with hot, dry summers and cool, wet winters
Terrain:
    central plain with mountains to north and south
Natural resources:
    copper, pyrites, asbestos, gypsum, timber, salt, marble, clay earth pigment
Land use:
    arable land 40%; permanent crops 7%; meadows and pastures 10%; forest and
    woodland 18%; other 25%; includes irrigated 10% (most irrigated lands are in
    the Turkish-Cypriot area of the island)
Environment:
    moderate earthquake activity; water resource problems (no natural reservoir
    catchments, seasonal disparity in rainfall, and most potable resources
    concentrated in the Turkish-Cypriot area)

:Cyprus People

Population:
    716,492 (July 1992), growth rate 1.0% (1992)
Birth rate:
    18 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    8 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    10 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    74 years male, 78 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    2.4 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Cypriot(s); adjective - Cypriot
Ethnic divisions:
    Greek 78%; Turkish 18%; other 4%
Religions:
    Greek Orthodox 78%, Muslim 18%, Maronite, Armenian, Apostolic, and other 4%
Languages:
    Greek, Turkish, English
Literacy:
    90% (male 96%, female 85%) age 10 and over can read and write (1976)
Labor force:
    Greek area - 278,000; services 45%, industry 35%, agriculture 14%; Turkish
    area - 71,500 (1990); services 21%, industry 30%, agriculture 27%
Organized labor:
    156,000 (1985 est.)

:Cyprus Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Cyprus
Type:
    republic; a disaggregation of the two ethnic communities inhabiting the
    island began after the outbreak of communal strife in 1963; this separation
    was further solidified following the Turkish invasion of the island in July
    1974, which gave the Turkish Cypriots de facto control in the north; Greek
    Cypriots control the only internationally recognized government; on 15
    November 1983 Turkish Cypriot President Rauf DENKTASH declared independence
    and the formation of a Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus (TRNC), which has
    been recognized only by Turkey; both sides publicly call for the resolution
    of intercommunal differences and creation of a new federal system of
    government
Capital:
    Nicosia
Administrative divisions:
    6 districts; Famagusta, Kyrenia, Larnaca, Limassol, Nicosia, Paphos
Independence:
    16 August 1960 (from UK)
Constitution:
    16 August 1960; negotiations to create the basis for a new or revised
    constitution to govern the island and to better relations between Greek and
    Turkish Cypriots have been held intermittently; in 1975 Turkish Cypriots
    created their own Constitution and governing bodies within the Turkish
    Federated State of Cyprus, which was renamed the Turkish Republic of
    Northern Cyprus in 1983; a new Constitution for the Turkish area passed by
    referendum in May 1985
Legal system:
    based on common law, with civil law modifications
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 1 October (15 November is celebrated as Independence Day
    in the Turkish area)
Executive branch:
    president, Council of Ministers (cabinet); note - there is a president,
    prime minister, and Council of Ministers (cabinet) in the Turkish area
Legislative branch:
    unicameral House of Representatives (Vouli Antiprosopon); note - there is a
    unicameral Assembly of the Republic (Cumhuriyet Meclisi) in the Turkish area
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court; note - there is also a Supreme Court in the Turkish area
Leaders:
  Chief of State and Head of Government:
    President George VASSILIOU (since February 1988); note - Rauf R. DENKTASH
    has been president of the Turkish area since 13 February 1975
Political parties and leaders:
  Greek Cypriot:
    Progressive Party of the Working People (AKEL; Communist Party), Dimitrios
    CHRISTOFIAS; Democratic Rally (DESY), Glafkos KLERIDES; Democratic Party
    (DEKO), Spyros KYPRIANOU; United Democratic Union of the Center (EDEK),
    Vassos LYSSARIDES; Socialist Democratic Renewal Movement (ADESOK), Mikhalis
    PAPAPETROU; Liberal Party, Nikos ROLANDIS

:Cyprus Government

  Turkish area:
    National Unity Party (UBP), Dervis EROGLU; Communal Liberation Party (TKP),
    Mustafa AKINCI; Republican Turkish Party (CTP), Ozker OZGUR; New Cyprus
    Party (YKP), Alpay DURDURAN; Social Democratic Party (SDP), Ergun VEHBI; New
    Birth Party (YDP), Ali Ozkan ALTINISHIK; Free Democratic Party (HDP), Ismet
    KOTAK; note - CTP, TKP, and YDP joined in the coalition Democratic Struggle
    Party (DMP) for the 22 April 1990 legislative election; the CTP and TKP
    boycotted the byelection of 13 October 1991, which was for 12 seats; the DMP
    was dissolved after the 1990 election; National Justice Party (MAP), Zorlu
    TORE; United Sovereignty Party, Arif Salih KIRDAG
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  President:
    last held 14 February and 21 February 1988 (next to be held February 1993);
    results - George VASSILIOU 52%, Glafkos KLERIDES 48%
  House of Representatives:
    last held 19 May 1991; results - DESY 35.8%, AKEL (Communist) 30.6, DEKO
    19.5%, EDEK 10. 9%; others 3.2% seats - (56 total) DESY 20, AKEL (Communist)
    18, DEKO 11, EDEK 7
  Turkish Area: President:
    last held 22 April 1990 (next to be held April 1995); results - Rauf R.
    DENKTASH 66%, Ismail BOZKURT 32.05%
  Turkish Area: Assembly of the Republic:
    last held 6 May 1990 (next to be held May 1995); results - UBP
    (conservative) 54.4%, DMP 44.4% YKP .9%; seats - (50 total) UBP
    (conservative) 45, SDP 1, HDP 2, YDP 2; note - by-election of 13 October
    1991 was for 12 seats
Communists:
    about 12,000
Other political or pressure groups:
    United Democratic Youth Organization (EDON; Communist controlled); Union of
    Cyprus Farmers (EKA; Communist controlled); Cyprus Farmers Union (PEK;
    pro-West); Pan-Cyprian Labor Federation (PEO; Communist controlled) ;
    Confederation of Cypriot Workers (SEK; pro-West); Federation of Turkish
    Cypriot Labor Unions (Turk-Sen); Confederation of Revolutionary Labor Unions
    (Dev-Is)
Member of:
    C, CCC, CE, CSCE, EBRD, ECE, FAO, G-77, GATT, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU,
    IDA, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, NAM,
    OAS (observer), UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO,
    WTO; note - the Turkish-Cypriot administered area of Cyprus has observer
    status in the OIC
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Michael E. SHERIFIS; Chancery at 2211 R Street NW, Washington, DC
    20008; telephone (202) 462-5772
  US:
    Ambassador Robert E. LAMB; Embassy at the corner of Therissos Street and
    Dositheos Street, Nicosia (mailing address is APO AE 09836); telephone [357]
    (2) 465151; FAX [357] (2) 459-571
Flag:
    white with a copper-colored silhouette of the island (the name Cyprus is
    derived from the Greek word for copper) above two green crossed olive
    branches in the center of the flag; the branches symbolize the hope for
    peace and reconciliation between the Greek and Turkish communities; note -
    the Turkish cypriot flag has a horizontal red stripe at the top and bottom
    with a red crescent and red star on a white field

:Cyprus Economy

Overview:
    The Greek Cypriot economy is small, diversified, and prosperous. Industry
    contributes 24% to GDP and employs 35% of the labor force, while the service
    sector contributes 44% to GDP and employs 45% of the labor force. Rapid
    growth in exports of agricultural and manufactured products and in tourism
    have played important roles in the average 6.4% rise in GDP between 1985 and
    1990. In mid-1991, the World Bank "graduated" Cyprus off its list of
    developing countries. In contrast to the bright picture in the south, the
    Turkish Cypriot economy has less than half the per capita GDP and suffered a
    series of reverses in 1991. Crippled by the effects of the Gulf war, the
    collapse of the fruit-to-electronics conglomerate, Polly Peck, Ltd., and a
    drought, the Turkish area in late 1991 asked for a multibillion-dollar grant
    from Turkey to help ease the burden of the economic crisis. Turkey normally
    underwrites a substantial portion of the TRNC economy.
GDP:
    purchasing power equivalent - Greek area: $5.5 billion, per capita $9,600;
    real growth rate 6.0%; Turkish area: $600 million, per capita $4,000; real
    growth rate 5.9% (1990)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    Greek area: 4.5%; Turkish area: 69.4% (1990)
Unemployment rate:
    Greek area: 1.8%; Turkish area: 1.2% (1990)
Budget:
    revenues $1.2 billion; expenditures $2.0 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $250 million (1991)
Exports:
    $847 million (f.o.b., 1990)
  commodities:
    citrus, potatoes, grapes, wine, cement, clothing and shoes
  partners:
    UK 23%, Greece 10%, Lebanon 10%, Germany 5%
Imports:
    $2.3 billion (f.o.b., 1990)
  commodities:
    consumer goods, petroleum and lubricants, food and feed grains, machinery
  partners:
    UK 13%, Japan 12%, Italy 10%, Germany 9.1%
External debt:
    $2.8 billion (1990)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 5.6% (1990); accounts for 24% of GDP
Electricity:
    620,000 kW capacity; 1,770 million kWh produced, 2,530 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    food, beverages, textiles, chemicals, metal products, tourism, wood products
Agriculture:
    accounts for 7% of GDP and employs 14% of labor force in the south; major
    crops - potatoes, vegetables, barley, grapes, olives, and citrus fruits;
    vegetables and fruit provide 25% of export revenues
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $292 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $250 million; OPEC
    bilateral aid (1979-89), $62 million; Communist countries (1970-89), $24
    million
Currency:
    Cypriot pound (plural - pounds) and in Turkish area, Turkish lira (plural -
    liras); 1 Cypriot pound (#C) = 100 cents and 1 Turkish lira (TL) = 100 kurus

:Cyprus Economy

Exchange rates:
    Cypriot pounds (#C) per US$1 - 0.4683 (March 1992), 0.4615 (1991), 0.4572
    (1990), 0.4933 (1989), 0.4663 (1988), 0.4807 (1987); in Turkish area,
    Turkish liras (TL) per US$1 - 6,098.4 (March 1992), 4,173.9 (1991), 2,608.6
    (1990), 2,121.7 (1989), 1,422.3 (1988), 857.2 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Cyprus Communications

Highways:
    10,780 km total; 5,170 km paved; 5,610 km gravel, crushed stone, and earth
Ports:
    Famagusta, Kyrenia, Larnaca, Limassol, Paphos
Merchant marine:
    1,228 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 20,053,213 GRT/35,647,964 DWT;
    includes 8 short-sea passenger, 2 passenger-cargo, 440 cargo, 83
    refrigerated cargo, 22 roll-on/roll-off, 52 container, 5 multifunction large
    load carrier, 107 petroleum tanker, 3 specialized tanker, 3 liquefied gas,
    20 chemical tanker, 32 combination ore/oil, 394 bulk, 3 vehicle carrier, 49
    combination bulk, 2 railcar carrier, 2 passenger, 1 passenger cargo; note -
    a flag of convenience registry; Cuba owns at least 30 of these ships,
    republics of the former USSR own 58, Latvia also has 5 ships, Yugoslavia
    owns 1, and Romania 3
Civil air:
    11 major transport aircraft (Greek Cypriots); 2 (Turkish Cypriots)
Airports:
    14 total, 14 usable; 12 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 7 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 3 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    excellent in both the area controlled by the Cypriot Government (Greek
    area), and in the Turkish-Cypriot administered area; 210,000 telephones;
    largely open-wire and radio relay; broadcast stations - 11 AM, 8 FM, 1 (34
    repeaters) TV in Greek sector and 2 AM, 6 FM and 1 TV in Turkish sector;
    international service by tropospheric scatter, 3 submarine cables, and
    satellite earth stations - 1 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT, 1 Indian Ocean
    INTELSAT and EUTELSAT earth stations

:Cyprus Defense Forces

Branches:
    Greek area - Greek Cypriot National Guard (GCNG; including air and naval
    elements), Greek Cypriot Police; Turkish area - Turkish Cypriot Security
    Force
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 183,899; 126,664 fit for military service; 5,030 reach military
    age (18) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $209 million, 5% of GDP (1990 est.)

:Czechoslovakia Geography

Total area:
    127,870 km2
Land area:
    125,460 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than New York State
Land boundaries:
    3,438 km; Austria 548 km, Germany 815 km, Hungary 676 km, Poland 1,309 km,
    Ukraine 90 km
Coastline:
    none - landlocked
Maritime claims:
    none - landlocked
Disputes:
    Gabcikovo Nagymaros Dam dispute with Hungary
Climate:
    temperate; cool summers; cold, cloudy, humid winters
Terrain:
    mixture of hills and mountains separated by plains and basins
Natural resources:
    hard coal, timber, lignite, uranium, magnesite, iron ore, copper, zinc
Land use:
    arable land 37%; permanent crops 1%; meadows and pastures 13%; forest and
    woodland 36%; other 13%; includes irrigated 1%
Environment:
    infrequent earthquakes; acid rain; water pollution; air pollution
Note:
    landlocked; strategically located astride some of oldest and most
    significant land routes in Europe; Moravian Gate is a traditional military
    corridor between the North European Plain and the Danube in central Europe

:Czechoslovakia People

Population:
    15,725,680 (July 1992), growth rate 0.2% (1992)
Birth rate:
    13 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    11 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    NEGL migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    11 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    68 years male, 76 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    1.9 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Czechoslovak(s); adjective - Czechoslovak
Ethnic divisions:
    Czech 62.9%, Slovak 31.8%, Hungarian 3.8%, Polish 0.5%, German 0.3%,
    Ukrainian 0.3%, Russian 0.1%, other 0.3%
Religions:
    Roman Catholic 50%, Protestant 20%, Orthodox 2%, other 28%
Languages:
    Czech and Slovak (official), Hungarian
Literacy:
    99% (male NA%, female NA%) age 15 and over can read and write (1970 est.)
Labor force:
    8,200,000 (1987); industry 36.9%, agriculture 12.3%, construction,
    communications, and other 50.8% (1982)
Organized labor:
    Czech and Slovak Confederation of Trade Unions (CSKOS); several new
    independent trade unions established

:Czechoslovakia Government

Long-form name:
    Czech and Slovak Federal Republic
Type:
    federal republic in transition
Capital:
    Prague
Administrative divisions:
    2 republics (republiky, singular - republika); Czech Republic (Ceska
    Republika), Slovak Republic (Slovenska Republika); note - 11 regions (kraj,
    singular); Severocesky, Zapadocesky, Jihocesky, Vychodocesky, Praha,
    Severomoravsky, Jihomoravsky, Bratislava, Zapadoslovensky, Stredoslovensky,
    Vychodoslovensky
Independence:
    28 October 1918 (from Austro-Hungarian Empire)
Constitution:
    11 July 1960; amended in 1968 and 1970; new Czech, Slovak, and federal
    constitutions to be drafted in 1992
Legal system:
    civil law system based on Austro-Hungarian codes, modified by Communist
    legal theory; constitutional court currently being established; has not
    accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction; legal code in process of modification
    to bring it in line with Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe
    (CSCE) obligations and to expunge Marxist-Leninist legal theory
National holiday:
    National Liberation Day, 9 May (1945) and Founding of the Republic, 28
    October (1918)
Executive branch:
    president, prime minister, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    bicameral Federal Assembly (Federalni Shromazdeni) consists of an upper
    house or Chamber of Nations (Snemovna Narodu) and a lower house or Chamber
    of the People (Snemovna Lidu)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Vaclav HAVEL; (interim president from 29 December 1989 and
    president since 5 July 1990)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Marian CALFA (since 10 December 1989); Deputy Prime Minister
    Vaclav KLAUS (since 3 October 1991); Deputy Prime Minister Jiri DIENSTBIER
    (since 28 June 1990); Deputy Prime Minister Jozef MIKLOSKO (since 28 June
    1990); Deputy Prime Minister Pavel RYCHETSKY (since 28 June 1990); Deputy
    Prime Minister Pavel HOFFMAN (since 3 October 1991); note - generally,
    "prime minister" is used at the federal level, "premier" at the republic
    level; Czech Premier - Petr PITHART; Slovak Premier - Jan CARNOGVRSKY

:Czechoslovakia Government

Political parties and leaders:
    note - there are very few federation-wide parties; party affiliation is
    indicted as Czech (C) or Slovak (S); Civic Democratic Party, Vaclav KLAUS,
    chairman, (C/S); Civic Movement, Jiri DIENSTBIER, chairman, (C); Civic
    Democratic Alliance, Jan KALVODA, chairman; Christian Democratic Union
    Public Against Violence, Martin PORUBJAK, chairman, (S); Christian
    Democratic Party, Vaclav BENDA, (C); Christian Democratic Movement, Jan
    CARNOGURSKY,(S); Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, Juri SVOBODA,
    chairman; Movement for a Democratic Slovakia, Vladimir MECIAR, chairman -
    removed from power in November 1989 by massive antiregime demonstrations;
    Czechoslovak Social Democracy, Jiri HORAK, chairman, (C); Czechoslovak
    Socialist Party, Ladislav DVORAK, chairman, (C)(S); Movement for
    Self-Governing Democracy Society for Moravia and Silesia, Jan KRYCER,
    chairman, (C); Party of the Democratic Left, Peter WEISS, chairman
    (Slovakia's renamed Communists) (S); Slovak National Party, Jozef PROKES,
    chairman, (S); Democratic Party, Jan HOLCIK, chairman, (S); Coexistence,
    (C)(S)
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  Federal Assembly:
    last held 8-9 June 1990 (next to be held 5-6 June 1992); results - Civic
    Forum/Public Against Violence coalition 46%, KSC 13.6%; seats - (300 total)
    Civic Forum/Public Against Violence coalition 170, KSC 47, Christian and
    Democratic Union/Christian Democratic Movement 40, Czech, Slovak, Moravian,
    and Hungarian groups 43
  President:
    last held 5 July 1990 (next to be held 3 July 1992); results - Vaclav HAVEL
    elected by the Federal Assembly
Communists:
    760,000 party members (September 1990); about 1,000,000 members lost since
    November 1989
Other political or pressure groups:
    Czechoslovak Socialist Party, Czechoslovak People's Party, Czechoslovak
    Social Democracy, Slovak Nationalist Party, Slovak Revival Party, Christian
    Democratic Party; over 80 registered political groups fielded candidates in
    the 8-9 June 1990 legislative election
Member of:
    BIS, CCC, CE, CSCE, EC (associate) ECE, FAO, GATT, HG, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
    IFCTU, ILO, IMF, IMO, INMARSAT, IOC, ISO, ITU, LORCS, NACC, NSG, PCA, UN,
    UNAVEM, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, ZC
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Rita KLIMOVA; Chancery at 3900 Linnean Avenue NW, Washington, DC
    20008; telephone (202) 363-6315 or 6316
  US:
    Ambassador Shirley Temple BLACK; Embassy at Trziste 15, 125 48, Prague 1
    (mailing address is Unit 25402; APO AE 09213-5630); telephone [42] (2)
    536-641/6; FAX [42] (2) 532-457
Flag:
    two equal horizontal bands of white (top) and red with a blue isosceles
    triangle based on the hoist side

:Czechoslovakia Economy

Overview:
    Czechoslovakia is highly industrialized by East European standards and has a
    well-educated and skilled labor force. GDP per capita has been the highest
    in Eastern Europe. Annual GDP growth slowed to less than 1 percent during
    the 1985-90 period. The country is deficient in energy and in many raw
    materials. Moreover, its aging capital plant lags well behind West European
    standards. In January 1991, Prague launched a sweeping program to convert
    its almost entirely state-owned and controlled economy to a market system.
    The koruna now enjoys almost full internal convertibility and over 90% of
    prices are set by the market. The government is planning to privatize all
    small businesses and roughly two-thirds of large enterprises by the end of
    1993. New private-sector activity is also expanding. Agriculture - 95%
    socialized - is to be privatized by the end of 1992. Reform has taken its
    toll on the economy: inflation was roughly 50% in 1991, unemployment was
    nearly 70%, and GDP dropped an estimated 15%. In 1992 the government is
    anticipating inflation of 10-15%, unemployment of 11-12%, and a drop in GDP
    of up to 8%. As of mid-1992, the nation appears to be splitting in two -
    into the industrial Czech area and the more agarian Slovak area.
GDP:
    purchasing power equivalent - $108.9 billion, per capita $6,900; real growth
    rate -15% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    52% (1991 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    officially 6.7% (1991 est.)
Budget:
    revenues $4.5 billion; expenditures $4.5 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $200 million (1992)
Exports:
    $12.0 billion (f.o.b., 1990)
  commodities:
    machinery and equipment 39.2%; fuels, minerals, and metals 8.1%;
    agricultural and forestry products 6.2%, other 46.5%
  partners:
    USSR, Germany, Poland, Austria, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Italy, France, US, UK
Imports:
    $13.3 billion (f.o.b., 1990)
  commodities:
    machinery and equipment 37.3%; fuels, minerals, and metals 22.6%;
    agricultural and forestry products 7.0%; other 33.1%
  partners:
    USSR, Germany, Austria, Poland, Switzerland, Hungary, Yugoslavia, UK, Italy
External debt:
    $9.1 billion, hard currency indebtedness (December 1991)
Industrial production:
    growth rate -22% (1991 est.); accounts for almost 60% of GNP
Electricity:
    23,000,000 kW capacity; 90,000 million kWh produced, 5,740 kWh per capita
    (1990)
Industries:
    iron and steel, machinery and equipment, cement, sheet glass, motor
    vehicles, armaments, chemicals, ceramics, wood, paper products, footwear
Agriculture:
    accounts for 9% of GDP (includes forestry); largely self-sufficient in food
    production; diversified crop and livestock production, including grains,
    potatoes, sugar beets, hops, fruit, hogs, cattle, and poultry; exporter of
    forest products

:Czechoslovakia Economy

Illicit drugs:
    transshipment point for Southwest Asian heroin and emerging as a
    transshipment point for Latin American cocaine E
Economic aid:
    donor - $4.2 billion in bilateral aid to non-Communist less developed
    countries (1954-89)
Currency:
    koruna (plural - koruny); 1 koruna (Kc) = 100 haleru
Exchange rates:
    koruny (Kcs) per US$1 - 28.36 (January 1992), 29.53 (1991), 17.95 (1990),
    15.05 (1989), 14.36 (1988), 13.69 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Czechoslovakia Communications

Railroads:
    13,103 km total; 12,855 km 1.435-meter standard gauge, 102 km 1.520-meter
    broad gauge, 146 km 0.750- and 0.760-meter narrow gauge; 2,861 km double
    track; 3,798 km electrified; government owned (1988)
Highways:
    73,540 km total; including 517 km superhighway (1988)
Inland waterways:
    475 km (1988); the Elbe (Labe) is the principal river
Pipelines:
    crude oil 1,448 km; petroleum products 1,500 km; natural gas 8,100 km
Ports:
    maritime outlets are in Poland (Gdynia, Gdansk, Szczecin), Croatia (Rijeka),
    Slovenia (Koper), Germany (Hamburg, Rostock); principal river ports are
    Prague on the Vltava, Decin on the Elbe (Labe), Komarno on the Danube,
    Bratislava on the Danube
Merchant marine:
    22 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 290,185 GRT/437,291 DWT; includes 13
    cargo, 9 bulk
Civil air:
    47 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    158 total, 158 usable; 40 with permanent-surface runways; 19 with runways
    2,440-3,659 m; 37 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    inadequate circuit capacity; 4 million telephones; Radrel backbone of
    network; 25% of households have a telephone; broadcast stations - 32 AM, 15
    FM, 41 TV (11 Soviet TV repeaters); 4.4 million TVs (1990); 1 satellite
    earth station using INTELSAT and Intersputnik

:Czechoslovakia Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Air and Air Defense Forces, Civil Defense, Border Guard
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 4,110,628; 3,142,457 fit for military service; 142,239 reach
    military age (18) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - 28 billion koruny, NA% of GNP (1991); note -
    conversion of defense expenditures into US dollars using the current
    exchange rate would produce misleading results

:Denmark Geography

Total area:
    43,070 km2
Land area:
    42,370 km2; includes the island of Bornholm in the Baltic Sea and the rest
    of metropolitan Denmark, but excludes the Faroe Islands and Greenland
Comparative area:
    slightly more than twice the size of Massachusetts
Land boundaries:
    68 km; Germany 68 km
Coastline:
    3,379 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    4 nm
  Continental shelf:
    200 m (depth) or to depth of exploitation
  Exclusive fishing zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    3 nm
Disputes:
    Rockall continental shelf dispute involving Iceland, Ireland, and the UK
    (Ireland and the UK have signed a boundary agreement in the Rockall area);
    Denmark has challenged Norway's maritime claims between Greenland and Jan
    Mayen
Climate:
    temperate; humid and overcast; mild, windy winters and cool summers
Terrain:
    low and flat to gently rolling plains
Natural resources:
    crude oil, natural gas, fish, salt, limestone
Land use:
    arable land 61%; permanent crops NEGL%; meadows and pastures 6%; forest and
    woodland 12%; other 21%; includes irrigated 9%
Environment:
    air and water pollution
Note:
    controls Danish Straits linking Baltic and North Seas

:Denmark People

Population:
    5,163,955 (July 1992), growth rate 0.2% (1992)
Birth rate:
    13 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    12 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    1 migrant/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    7 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    72 years male, 78 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    1.7 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Dane(s); adjective - Danish
Ethnic divisions:
    Scandinavian, Eskimo, Faroese, German
Religions:
    Evangelical Lutheran 91%, other Protestant and Roman Catholic 2%, other 7%
    (1988)
Languages:
    Danish, Faroese, Greenlandic (an Eskimo dialect); small German-speaking
    minority
Literacy:
    99% (male NA%, female NA%) age 15 and over can read and write (1980 est.)
Labor force:
    2,581,400; private services 36.4%; government services 30.2%; manufacturing
    and mining 20%; construction 6.8%; agriculture, forestry, and fishing 5.9%;
    electricity/gas/water 0.7% (1990)
Organized labor:
    65% of labor force

:Denmark Government

Long-form name:
    Kingdom of Denmark
Type:
    constitutional monarchy
Capital:
    Copenhagen
Administrative divisions:
    metropolitan Denmark - 14 counties (amter, singular - amt) and 1 city*
    (stad); Arhus, Bornholm, Frederiksborg, Fyn, Kbenhavn, Nordjylland, Ribe,
    Ringkbing, Roskilde, Snderjylland, Staden Kbenhavn*, Storstrm, Vejle,
    Vestsjaelland, Viborg; note - see separate entries for the Faroe Islands and
    Greenland, which are part of the Danish realm and self-governing
    administrative divisions
Independence:
    became a constitutional monarchy in 1849
Constitution:
    5 June 1953
Legal system:
    civil law system; judicial review of legislative acts; accepts compulsory
    ICJ jurisdiction, with reservations
National holiday:
    Birthday of the Queen, 16 April (1940)
Executive branch:
    monarch, heir apparent, prime minister, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    unicameral parliament (Folketing)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Queen MARGRETHE II (since January 1972); Heir Apparent Crown Prince
    FREDERIK, elder son of the Queen (born 26 May 1968)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Poul SCHLUTER (since 10 September 1982)
Political parties and leaders:
    Social Democratic Party, Paul Nyrup RASMUSSEN; Conservative Party, Poul
    SCHLUTER; Liberal Party, Uffe ELLEMANN-JENSEN; Socialist People's Party,
    Holger K. NIELSEN; Progress Party, Pia KJAERSGAARD; Center Democratic Party,
    Mimi Stilling JAKOBSEN; Radical Liberal Party, Marianne JELVED; Christian
    People's Party, Jam SJURSEN; Left Socialist Party, Elizabeth BRUN-OLESEN;
    Justice Party, Poul Gerhard KRISTIANSEN; Socialist Workers Party, leader NA;
    Communist Workers' Party (KAP), leader NA; Common Course, Preben Meller
    HANSEN; Green Party, Inger BORLEHMANN
Suffrage:
    universal at age 21
Elections:
  Parliament:
    last held 12 December 1990 (next to be held by December 1994); results -
    Social Democratic Party 37.4%, Conservative Party 16.0%, Liberal 15.8%,
    Socialist People's Party 8.3%, Progress Party 6.4%, Center Democratic Party
    5.1%, Radical Liberal Party 3.5%, Christian People's Party 2.3%, other 5.2%;
    seats - (179 total; includes 2 from Greenland and 2 from the Faroe Islands)
    Social Democratic 69, Conservative 30, Liberal 29, Socialist People's 15,
    Progress Party 12, Center Democratic 9, Radical Liberal 7, Christian
    People's 4

:Denmark Government

Member of:
    AfDB, AG (observer), AsDB, Australia Group, BIS, CCC, CE, CERN, COCOM, CSCE,
    EBRD, EC, ECE, EIB, ESA, FAO, G-9, GATT, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU,
    IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INMARSAT, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, IOM,
    ISO, ITU, LORCS, MTCR, NACC, NATO, NC, NEA, NIB, NSG, OECD, PCA, UN, UNCTAD,
    UNESCO, UNFICYP, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIIMOG, UNMOGIP, UNTSO, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WM,
    ZC
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Peter Pedersen DYVIG; Chancery at 3200 Whitehaven Street NW,
    Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 234-4300; there are Danish Consulates
    General in Chicago, Los Angeles, and New York
  US:
    Ambassador Richard B. STONE; Embassy at Dag Hammarskjolds Alle 24, 2100
    Copenhagen O (mailing address is APO AE 09716); telephone [45] (31)
    42-31-44; FAX [45] (35) 43-0223
Flag:
    red with a white cross that extends to the edges of the flag; the vertical
    part of the cross is shifted to the hoist side, and that design element of
    the (Danish flag) was subsequently adopted by the other Nordic countries of
    Finland, Iceland, Norway, and Sweden

:Denmark Economy

Overview:
    This modern economy features high-tech agriculture, up-to-date small-scale
    and corporate industry, extensive government welfare measures, comfortable
    living standards, and high dependence on foreign trade. Denmark probably
    will continue its successful economic recovery in 1992 with tight fiscal and
    monetary policies and export- oriented growth. Prime Minister Schluter's
    main priorities are to maintain a current account surplus in order to pay
    off extensive external debt and to continue to freeze public-sector
    expenditures in order to reduce the budget deficit. The rate of growth by
    1993 - boosted by increased investment and domestic demand - may be
    sufficient to start to cut Denmark's high unemployment rate, which is
    expected to remain at about 11% in 1992. Low inflation, low wage increases,
    and the current account surplus put Denmark in a good competitive position
    for the EC's anticipated single market, although Denmark must cut its VAT
    and income taxes.
GDP:
    purchasing power equivalent - $91.1 billion, per capita $17,700; real growth
    rate 2.0% (1991)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    2.4% (1991)
Unemployment rate:
    10.6% (1991)
Budget:
    revenues $44.1 billion; expenditures $50 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $NA billion (1991 est.)
Exports:
    $37.8 billion (f.o.b., 1991)
  commodities:
    meat and meat products, dairy products, transport equipment (shipbuilding),
    fish, chemicals, industrial machinery
  partners:
    EC 54.2% (Germany 22.5%, UK 10.3%, France 5.9%), Sweden 11.5%, Norway 5.8%,
    US 5.0%, Japan 3.6% (1991)
Imports:
    $31.6 billion (c.i.f., 1991)
  commodities:
    petroleum, machinery and equipment, chemicals, grain and foodstuffs,
    textiles, paper
  partners:
    EC 52.8% (Germany 22.5%, UK 8.1%), Sweden 10.8%, US 6.3% (1991)
External debt:
    $45 billion (1991)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 0% (1991 est.)
Electricity:
    11,215,000 kW capacity; 31,000 million kWh produced, 6,030 kWh per capita
    (1991)
Industries:
    food processing, machinery and equipment, textiles and clothing, chemical
    products, electronics, construction, furniture, and other wood products
Agriculture:
    accounts for 4.5% of GDP and employs 6% of labor force (includes fishing and
    forestry); farm products account for nearly 15% of export revenues;
    principal products - meat, dairy, grain, potatoes, rape, sugar beets, fish;
    self-sufficient in food production
Economic aid:
    donor - ODA and OOF commitments (1970-89) $5.9 billion
Currency:
    Danish krone (plural - kroner); 1 Danish krone (DKr) = 100 re

:Denmark Economy

Exchange rates:
    Danish kroner (DKr) per US$1 - 6.116 (January 1992), 6.396 (1991), 6.189
    (1990), 7.310 (1989), 6.732 (1988), 6.840 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Denmark Communications

Railroads:
    2,675 km 1.435-meter standard gauge; Danish State Railways (DSB) operate
    2,120 km (1,999 km rail line and 121 km rail ferry services); 188 km
    electrified, 730 km double tracked; 650 km of standard- gauge lines are
    privately owned and operated
Highways:
    66,482 km total; 64,551 km concrete, bitumen, or stone block; 1,931 km
    gravel, crushed stone, improved earth
Inland waterways:
    417 km
Pipelines:
    crude oil 110 km; petroleum products 578 km; natural gas 700 km
Ports:
    Alborg, Arhus, Copenhagen, Esbjerg, Fredericia; numerous secondary and minor
    ports
Merchant marine:
    317 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 5,367,063 GRT/7,921,891 DWT; includes
    13 short-sea passenger, 94 cargo, 21 refrigerated cargo, 38 container, 39
    roll-on/roll-off, 1 railcar carrier, 42 petroleum tanker, 14 chemical
    tanker, 33 liquefied gas, 4 livestock carrier, 17 bulk, 1 combination bulk;
    note - Denmark has created its own internal register, called the Danish
    International Ship register (DIS); DIS ships do not have to meet Danish
    manning regulations, and they amount to a flag of convenience within the
    Danish register; by the end of 1990, 258 of the Danish-flag ships belonged
    to the DIS
Civil air:
    69 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    121 total, 108 usable; 27 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 9 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 6 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    excellent telephone, telegraph, and broadcast services; 4,509,000
    telephones; buried and submarine cables and radio relay support trunk
    network; broadcast stations - 3 AM, 2 FM, 50 TV; 19 submarine coaxial
    cables; 7 earth stations operating in INTELSAT, EUTELSAT, and INMARSAT

:Denmark Defense Forces

Branches:
    Royal Danish Army, Royal Danish Navy, Royal Danish Air Force, Home Guard
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 1,372,878; 1,181,857 fit for military service; 38,221 reach
    military age (20) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $2.5 billion, 2% of GDP (1991)

:Djibouti Geography

Total area:
    22,000 km2
Land area:
    21,980 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than Massachusetts
Land boundaries:
    517 km; Ethiopia 459 km, Somalia 58 km
Coastline:
    314 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    24 nm
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    possible claim by Somalia based on unification of ethnic Somalis
Climate:
    desert; torrid, dry
Terrain:
    coastal plain and plateau separated by central mountains
Natural resources:
    geothermal areas
Land use:
    arable land 0%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 9%; forest and
    woodland NEGL%; other 91%
Environment:
    vast wasteland
Note:
    strategic location near world's busiest shipping lanes and close to Arabian
    oilfields; terminus of rail traffic into Ethiopia

:Djibouti People

Population:
    390,906 (July 1992), growth rate 2.7% (1992)
Birth rate:
    43 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    16 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    115 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    47 years male, 50 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    6.3 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Djiboutian(s); adjective - Djiboutian
Ethnic divisions:
    Somali 60%, Afar 35%, French, Arab, Ethiopian, and Italian 5%
Religions:
    Muslim 94%, Christian 6%
Languages:
    French and Arabic (both official); Somali and Afar widely used
Literacy:
    48% (male 63%, female 34%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990)
Labor force:
    NA, but a small number of semiskilled laborers at the port and 3,000 railway
    workers; 52% of population of working age (1983)
Organized labor:
    3,000 railway workers, General Union of Djiboutian Workers (UGTD),
    government affiliated; some smaller unions

:Djibouti Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Djibouti
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Djibouti
Administrative divisions:
    5 districts (cercles, singular - cercle); `Ali Sabih, Dikhil, Djibouti,
    Obock, Tadjoura
Independence:
    27 June 1977 (from France; formerly French Territory of the Afars and Issas)
Constitution:
    partial constitution ratified January 1981 by the National Assembly
Legal system:
    based on French civil law system, traditional practices, and Islamic law
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 27 June (1977)
Executive branch:
    president, prime minister, Council of Ministers
Legislative branch:
    National Assembly (Assemblee Nationale)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court (Cour Supreme)
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Hassan GOULED Aptidon (since 24 June 1977)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister BARKAT Gourad Hamadou (since 30 September 1978)
Political parties and leaders:
    only party - People's Progress Assembly (RPP), Hassan GOULED Aptidon
Suffrage:
    universal adult at age NA
Elections:
  National Assembly:
    last held 24 April 1987 (next scheduled for May 1992 but post- poned);
    results - RPP is the only party; seats - (65 total) RPP 65
  President:
    last held 24 April 1987 (next to be held April 1993); results - President
    Hassan GOULED Aptidon was reelected without opposition
Other political or pressure groups:
    Front for the Restoration of Unity and Democracy and affiliates
Member of:
    ACCT, ACP, AfDB, AFESD, AL, ECA, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC,
    IGADD, ILO, IMF, IMO, INTERPOL, IOC, ITU, LORCS, NAM, OAU, OIC, UN, UNESCO,
    UNCTAD, UPU, WHO, WMO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Roble OLHAYE; Chancery at Suite 515, 1156 15th Street NW,
    Washington, DC 20005; telephone (202) 331-0270
  US:
    Ambassador Charles R. BAQUET III; Embassy at Villa Plateau du Serpent,
    Boulevard Marechal Joffre, Djibouti (mailing address is B. P. 185,
    Djibouti); telephone [253] 35-39-95; FAX [253] 35-39-40
Flag:
    two equal horizontal bands of light blue (top) and light green with a white
    isosceles triangle based on the hoist side bearing a red five-pointed star
    in the center

:Djibouti Economy

Overview:
    The economy is based on service activities connected with the country's
    strategic location and status as a free trade zone in northeast Africa.
    Djibouti provides services as both a transit port for the region and an
    international transshipment and refueling center. It has few natural
    resources and little industry. The nation is, therefore, heavily dependent
    on foreign assistance to help support its balance of payments and to finance
    development projects. An unemployment rate of over 30% continues to be a
    major problem. Per capita consumption dropped an estimated 35% over the last
    five years because of recession and a high population growth rate (including
    immigrants and refugees).
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $340 million, $1,000 per capita; real growth rate
    -1.0% (1989 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    3.7% (1989)
Unemployment rate:
    over 30% (1989)
Budget:
    revenues $131 million; expenditures $154 million, including capital
    expenditures of $25 million (1990 est.)
Exports:
    $190 million (f.o.b., 1990 est.)
  commodities:
    hides and skins, coffee (in transit)
  partners:
    Middle East 50%, Africa 43%, Western Europe 7%
Imports:
    $311 million (f.o.b., 1990 est.)
  commodities:
    foods, beverages, transport equipment, chemicals, petroleum products
  partners:
    EC 36%, Africa 21%, Asia 12%, US 2%
External debt:
    $355 million (December 1990)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 0.1% (1989); manufacturing accounts for 4% of GDP
Electricity:
    115,000 kW capacity; 200 million kWh produced, 580 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    limited to a few small-scale enterprises, such as dairy products and
    mineral-water bottling
Agriculture:
    accounts for only 5% of GDP; scanty rainfall limits crop production to
    mostly fruit and vegetables; half of population pastoral nomads herding
    goats, sheep, and camels; imports bulk of food needs
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY78-89), $39 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, including ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $1.1
    billion; OPEC bilateral aid (1979-89), $149 million; Communist countries
    (1970-89), $35 million
Currency:
    Djiboutian franc (plural - francs); 1 Djiboutian franc (DF) = 100 centimes
Exchange rates:
    Djiboutian francs (DF) per US$1 - 177.721 (fixed rate since 1973)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Djibouti Communications

Railroads:
    the Ethiopian-Djibouti railroad extends for 97 km through Djibouti
Highways:
    2,900 km total; 280 km paved; 2,620 km improved or unimproved earth (1982)
Ports:
    Djibouti
Civil air:
    1 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    13 total, 11 usable; 2 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 2 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 5 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    fair system of urban facilities in Djibouti and radio relay stations at
    outlying places; broadcast stations - 2 AM, 1 FM, 1 TV; 1 Indian Ocean
    INTELSAT earth station and 1 ARABSAT; 1 submarine cable to Saudi Arabia

:Djibouti Defense Forces

Branches:
    Djibouti National Army (including Navy and Air Force), National Security
    Force (Force Nationale de Securite), National Police Force
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 96,150; 56,077 fit for military service
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $29.9 million, NA% of GDP (1986)

:Dominica Geography

Total area:
    750 km2
Land area:
    750 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly more than four times the size of Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    148 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    24 nm
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    tropical; moderated by northeast trade winds; heavy rainfall
Terrain:
    rugged mountains of volcanic origin
Natural resources:
    timber
Land use:
    arable land 9%; permanent crops 13%; meadows and pastures 3%; forest and
    woodland 41%; other 34%
Environment:
    flash floods a constant hazard; occasional hurricanes
Note:
    located 550 km southeast of Puerto Rico in the Caribbean Sea

:Dominica People

Population:
    87,035 (July 1992), growth rate 1.6% (1992)
Birth rate:
    24 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    5 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    -3 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    11 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    74 years male, 79 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    2.4 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Dominican(s); adjective - Dominican
Ethnic divisions:
    mostly black; some Carib Indians
Religions:
    Roman Catholic 77%, Protestant 15% (Methodist 5%, Pentecostal 3%,
    Seventh-Day Adventist 3%, Baptist 2%, other 2%), none 2%, unknown 1%, other
    5%
Languages:
    English (official); French patois widely spoken
Literacy:
    94% (male 94%, female 94%) age 15 and over having ever attended school
    (1970)
Labor force:
    25,000; agriculture 40%, industry and commerce 32%, services 28% (1984)
Organized labor:
    25% of labor force

:Dominica Government

Long-form name:
    Commonwealth of Dominica
Type:
    parliamentary democracy
Capital:
    Roseau
Administrative divisions:
    10 parishes; Saint Andrew, Saint David, Saint George, Saint John, Saint
    Joseph, Saint Luke, Saint Mark, Saint Patrick, Saint Paul, Saint Peter
Independence:
    3 November 1978 (from UK)
Constitution:
    3 November 1978
Legal system:
    based on English common law
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 3 November (1978)
Executive branch:
    president, prime minister, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    unicameral House of Assembly
Judicial branch:
    Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Sir Clarence Augustus SEIGNORET (since 19 December 1983)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister (Mary) Eugenia CHARLES (since 21 July 1980, elected for a
    third term 28 May 1990)
Political parties and leaders:
    Dominica Freedom Party (DFP), (Mary) Eugenia CHARLES; Dominica Labor Party
    (DLP), Pierre CHARLES; United Workers Party (UWP), Edison JAMES
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  House of Assembly:
    last held 28 May 1990 (next to be held May 1995); results - percent of vote
    by party NA; seats - (30 total; 9 appointed senators and 21 elected
    representatives) DFP 11, UWP 6, DLP 4
  President:
    last held 20 December 1988 (next to be held December 1993); results -
    President Sir Clarence Augustus SEIGNORET was reelected by the House of
    Assembly
Other political or pressure groups:
    Dominica Liberation Movement (DLM), a small leftist group
Member of:
    ACCT, ACP, C, CARICOM, CDB, ECLAC, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICFTU, IDA, IFAD, IFC,
    ILO, IMF, IMO, INTERPOL, LORCS, NAM (observer), OAS, OECS, UN, UNCTAD,
    UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WHO, WMO
Diplomatic representation:
    there is no Chancery in the US
  US:
    no official presence since the Ambassador resides in Bridgetown (Barbados),
    but travels frequently to Dominica

:Dominica Government

Flag:
    green with a centered cross of three equal bands - the vertical part is
    yellow (hoist side), black, and white - the horizontal part is yellow (top),
    black, and white; superimposed in the center of the cross is a red disk
    bearing a sisserou parrot encircled by 10 green five-pointed stars edged in
    yellow; the 10 stars represent the 10 administrative divisions (parishes)

:Dominica Economy

Overview:
    The economy is dependent on agriculture and thus is highly vulnerable to
    climatic conditions. Agriculture accounts for about 30% of GDP and employs
    40% of the labor force. Principal products include bananas, citrus, mangoes,
    root crops, and coconuts. In 1990, GDP grew by 7%, bouncing back from the
    1.6% decline of 1989. The tourist industry remains undeveloped because of a
    rugged coastline and the lack of an international airport.
GDP:
    purchasing power equivalent - $170 million, per capita $2,000; real growth
    rate 7.0% (1990 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    4.7% (1990)
Unemployment rate:
    10% (1989 est.)
Budget:
    revenues $48 million; expenditures $85 million, including capital
    expenditures of $41 million (FY90)
Exports:
    $59.9 million (f.o.b., 1990)
  commodities:
    bananas, coconuts, grapefruit, soap, galvanized sheets
  partners:
    UK 72%, Jamaica 10%, OECS 6%, US 3%, other 9%
Imports:
    $103.9 million (c.i.f., 1990)
  commodities:
    food, oils and fats, chemicals, fuels and lubricants, manufactured goods,
    machinery and equipment
  partners:
    US 23%, UK 18%, CARICOM 15%, OECS 15%, Japan 5%, Canada 3%, other 21%
External debt:
    $73 million (1990 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 4.5% in manufacturing (1988 est.); accounts for 11% of GDP
Electricity:
    7,000 kW capacity; 16 million kWh produced, 185 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    soap, beverages, tourism, food processing, furniture, cement blocks, shoes
Agriculture:
    accounts for 30% of GDP; principal crops - bananas, citrus, mangoes, root
    crops, and coconuts; bananas provide the bulk of export earnings; forestry
    and fisheries potential not exploited
Economic aid:
    Western (non-US) countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89),
    $120 million
Currency:
    East Caribbean dollar (plural - dollars); 1 EC dollar (EC$) = 100 cents
Exchange rates:
    East Caribbean dollars (EC$) per US$1 - 2.70 (fixed rate since 1976)
Fiscal year:
    1 July - 30 June

:Dominica Communications

Highways:
    750 km total; 370 km paved, 380 km gravel and earth
Ports:
    Roseau, Portsmouth
Civil air:
    NA
Airports:
    2 total, 2 usable; 2 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways over
    2,439 m; 1 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    4,600 telephones in fully automatic network; VHF and UHF link to Saint
    Lucia; new SHF links to Martinique and Guadeloupe; broadcast stations - 3
    AM, 2 FM, 1 cable TV

:Dominica Defense Forces

Branches:
    Commonwealth of Dominica Police Force (including Coast Guard)
Manpower availability:
    NA
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $NA, NA% of GDP

:Dominican Republic Geography

Total area:
    48,730 km2
Land area:
    48,380 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly more than twice the size of New Hampshire
Land boundaries:
    275 km; Haiti 275 km
Coastline:
    1,288 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    24 nm
  Continental shelf:
    outer edge of continental margin or 200 nm
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    6 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    tropical maritime; little seasonal temperature variation
Terrain:
    rugged highlands and mountains with fertile valleys interspersed
Natural resources:
    nickel, bauxite, gold, silver
Land use:
    arable land 23%; permanent crops 7%; meadows and pastures 43%; forest and
    woodland 13%; other 14%; includes irrigated 4%
Environment:
    subject to occasional hurricanes (July to October); deforestation
Note:
    shares island of Hispaniola with Haiti (western one-third is Haiti, eastern
    two-thirds is the Dominican Republic)

:Dominican Republic People

Population:
    7,515,892 (July 1992), growth rate 1.9% (1992)
Birth rate:
    26 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    7 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    -1 migrant/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    56 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    66 years male, 70 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    3.0 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Dominican(s); adjective - Dominican
Ethnic divisions:
    mixed 73%, white 16%, black 11%
Religions:
    Roman Catholic 95%
Languages:
    Spanish
Literacy:
    83% (male 85%, female 82%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    2,300,000 to 2,600,000; agriculture 49%, services 33%, industry 18% (1986)
Organized labor:
    12% of labor force (1989 est.)

:Dominican Republic Government

Long-form name:
    Dominican Republic (no short-form name)
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Santo Domingo
Administrative divisions:
    29 provinces (provincias, singular - provincia) and 1 district* (distrito);
    Azua, Baoruco, Barahona, Dajabon, Distrito Nacional*, Duarte, Elias Pina, El
    Seibo, Espaillat, Hato Mayor, Independencia, La Altagracia, La Romana, La
    Vega, Maria Trinidad Sanchez, Monsenor Nouel, Monte Cristi, Monte Plata,
    Pedernales, Peravia, Puerto Plata, Salcedo, Samana, Sanchez Ramirez, San
    Cristobal, San Juan, San Pedro De Macoris, Santiago, Santiago Rodriguez,
    Valverde
Independence:
    27 February 1844 (from Haiti)
Constitution:
    28 November 1966
Legal system:
    based on French civil codes
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 27 February (1844)
Executive branch:
    president, vice president, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    bicameral National Congress (Congreso Nacional) consists of an upper chamber
    or Senate (Senado) and lower chamber or Chamber of Deputies (Camara de
    Diputados)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court (Corte Suprema)
Leaders:
  Chief of State and Head of Government:
    President Joaquin BALAGUER Ricardo (since 16 August 1986, fifth elected term
    began 16 August 1990); Vice President Carlos A. MORALES Troncoso (since 16
    August 1986)
Political parties and leaders:
  Major parties:
    Social Christian Reformist Party (PRSC), Joaquin BALAGUER Ricardo; Dominican
    Revolutionary Party (PRD), Jose Franciso PENA Gomez; Dominican Liberation
    Party (PLD), Juan BOSCH Gavino; Independent Revolutionary Party (PRI),
    Jacobo MAJLUTA
  Minor parties:
    National Veterans and Civilian Party (PNVC), Juan Rene BEAUCHAMPS Javier;
    Liberal Party of the Dominican Republic (PLRD), Andres Van Der HORST;
    Democratic Quisqueyan Party (PQD), Elias WESSIN Chavez; National Progressive
    Force (FNP), Marino VINICIO Castillo; Popular Christian Party (PPC), Rogelio
    DELGADO Bogaert; Dominican Communist Party (PCD) Narciso ISA Conde;
    Dominican Workers' Party (PTD), Ivan RODRIGUEZ; Anti-Imperialist Patriotic
    Union (UPA), Ignacio RODRIGUEZ Chiappini
  Note:
    in 1983 several leftist parties, including the PCD, joined to form the
    Dominican Leftist Front (FID); however, they still retain individual party
    structures
Suffrage:
    universal and compulsory at age 18 or if married; members of the armed
    forces and police cannot vote

:Dominican Republic Government

Elections:
  Chamber of Deputies:
    last held 16 May 1990 (next to be held May 1994); results - percent of vote
    by party NA; seats - (120 total) PLD 44, PRSC 41, PRD 33, PRI 2
  President:
    last held 16 May 1990 (next to be held May 1994); results - Joaquin BALAGUER
    (PRSC) 35.7%, Juan BOSCH Gavino (PLD) 34.4%
  Senate:
    last held 16 May 1990 (next to be held May 1994); results - percent of vote
    by party NA; seats - (30 total) PRSC 16, PLD 12, PRD 2
Communists:
    an estimated 8,000 to 10,000 members in several legal and illegal factions;
    effectiveness limited by ideological differences, organizational
    inadequacies, and severe funding shortages
Member of:
    ACP, CARICOM (observer), ECLAC, FAO, G-11, G-77, GATT, IADB, IAEA, IBRD,
    ICAO, ICFTU, IDA, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, IOM,
    ITU, LAES, LORCS, NAM (guest), OAS, OPANAL, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO,
    UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Jose del Carmen ARIZA Gomez; Chancery at 1715 22nd Street NW,
    Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 332-6280; there are Dominican
    Consulates General in Boston, Chicago, Los Angeles, Mayaguez (Puerto Rico),
    Miami, New Orleans, New York, Philadelphia, San Juan (Puerto Rico), and
    Consulates in Charlotte Amalie (Virgin Islands), Detroit, Houston,
    Jacksonville, Minneapolis, Mobile, Ponce (Puerto Rico), and San Francisco
  US:
    Ambassador Robert S. PASTORINO; Embassy at the corner of Calle Cesar Nicolas
    Penson and Calle Leopoldo Navarro, Santo Domingo (mailing address is APO AA
    34041-0008); telephone (809) 5412171
Flag:
    a centered white cross that extends to the edges, divides the flag into four
    rectangles - the top ones are blue (hoist side) and red, the bottom ones are
    red (hoist side) and blue; a small coat of arms is at the center of the
    cross

:Dominican Republic Economy

Overview:
    The economy is largely dependent on trade; imported components average 60%
    of the value of goods consumed in the domestic market. Rapid growth of free
    trade zones has established a significant expansion of manufacturing for
    export, especially wearing apparel. Over the past decade, tourism has also
    increased in importance and is a major earner of foreign exchange and a
    source of new jobs. Agriculture remains a key sector of the economy. The
    principal commercial crop is sugarcane, followed by coffee, cotton, cocoa,
    and tobacco. Domestic industry is based on the processing of agricultural
    products, durable consumer goods, minerals, and chemicals. Unemployment is
    officially reported at about 30%, but there is considerable underemployment.
    A fiscal austerity program has brought inflation under control, but in 1991
    the economy contracted for a second straight year.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $7 billion, per capita $950; real growth rate -2%
    (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    9% (1991 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    30% (1991 est.)
Budget:
    revenues NA; expenditures $1.1 billion, including capital expenditures of NA
    (1992 est.)
Exports:
    $775 million (f.o.b., 1991 est.)
  commodities:
    sugar, coffee, cocoa, gold, ferronickel
  partners:
    US 60%, EC 19%, Puerto Rico 8% (1990)
Imports:
    $1.8 billion (c.i.f., 1991 est.)
  commodities:
    foodstuffs, petroleum, cotton and fabrics, chemicals and pharmaceuticals
  partners:
    US 50%
External debt:
    $4.7 billion (1991 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate NA; accounts for 20% of GDP
Electricity:
    2,133,000 kW capacity; 4,410 million kWh produced, 597 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    tourism, sugar processing, ferronickel and gold mining, textiles, cement,
    tobacco
Agriculture:
    accounts for 15% of GDP and employs 49% of labor force; sugarcane is the
    most important commercial crop, followed by coffee, cotton, cocoa, and
    tobacco; food crops - rice, beans, potatoes, corn, bananas; animal output -
    cattle, hogs, dairy products, meat, eggs; not self-sufficient in food
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY85-89), $575 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $655 million
Currency:
    Dominican peso (plural - pesos); 1 Dominican peso (RD$) = 100 centavos
Exchange rates:
    Dominican pesos (RD$) per US$1 - 12.609 (January 1992), 12.692 (1991), 8.525
    (1990), 6.340 (1989), 6.113 (1988), 3.845 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Dominican Republic Communications

Railroads:
    1,655 km total in numerous segments; 4 different gauges from 0.558 m to
    1.435 m
Highways:
    12,000 km total; 5,800 km paved, 5,600 km gravel and improved earth, 600 km
    unimproved
Pipelines:
    crude oil 96 km; petroleum products 8 km
Ports:
    Santo Domingo, Haina, San Pedro de Macoris, Puerto Plata
Merchant marine:
    1 cargo ship (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 1,587 GRT/1,165 DWT
Civil air:
    23 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    36 total, 30 usable; 12 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 3 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 9 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    relatively efficient domestic system based on islandwide microwave relay
    network; 190,000 telephones; broadcast stations - 120 AM, no FM, 18 TV, 6
    shortwave; 1 coaxial submarine cable; 1 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT earth
    station

:Dominican Republic Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Navy, Air Force, National Police
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 2,013,294; 1,271,772 fit for military service; 80,117 reach
    military age (18) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $70 million, 1% of GDP (1990)

:Ecuador Geography

Total area:
    283,560 km2
Land area:
    276,840 km2; includes Galapagos Islands
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than Nevada
Land boundaries:
    2,010 km; Colombia 590 km, Peru 1,420 km
Coastline:
    2,237 km
Maritime claims:
  Continental shelf:
    claims continental shelf between mainland and Galapagos Islands
  Territorial sea:
    200 nm
Disputes:
    three sections of the boundary with Peru are in dispute
Climate:
    tropical along coast becoming cooler inland
Terrain:
    coastal plain (Costa), inter-Andean central highlands (Sierra), and flat to
    rolling eastern jungle (Oriente)
Natural resources:
    petroleum, fish, timber
Land use:
    arable land 6%; permanent crops 3%; meadows and pastures 17%; forest and
    woodland 51%; other 23%; includes irrigated 2%
Environment:
    subject to frequent earthquakes, landslides, volcanic activity;
    deforestation; desertification; soil erosion; periodic droughts
Note:
    Cotopaxi in Andes is highest active volcano in world

:Ecuador People

Population:
    10,933,143 (July 1992), growth rate 2.2% (1992)
Birth rate:
    28 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    6 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    42 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    67 years male, 72 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    3.5 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Ecuadorian(s); adjective - Ecuadorian
Ethnic divisions:
    mestizo (mixed Indian and Spanish) 55%, Indian 25%, Spanish 10%, black 10%
Religions:
    Roman Catholic 95%
Languages:
    Spanish (official); Indian languages, especially Quechua
Literacy:
    86% (male 88%, female 84%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    2,800,000; agriculture 35%, manufacturing 21%, commerce 16%, services and
    other activities 28% (1982)
Organized labor:
    less than 15% of labor force

:Ecuador Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Ecuador
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Quito
Administrative divisions:
    21 provinces (provincias, singular - provincia); Azuay, Bolivar, Canar,
    Carchi, Chimborazo, Cotopaxi, El Oro, Esmeraldas, Galapagos, Guayas,
    Imbabura, Loja, Los Rios, Manabi, Morona-Santiago, Napo, Pastaza, Pichincha,
    Sucumbios, Tungurahua, Zamora-Chinchipe
Independence:
    24 May 1822 (from Spain; Battle of Pichincha)
Constitution:
    10 August 1979
Legal system:
    based on civil law system; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 10 August (1809, independence of Quito)
Executive branch:
    president, vice president, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    unicameral National Congress (Congreso Nacional)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court (Corte Suprema)
Leaders:
  Chief of State and Head of Government:
    President Rodrigo BORJA Cevallos (since 10 August 1988); Vice President Luis
    PARODI Valverde (since 10 August 1988)
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18; compulsory for literate persons ages 18-65, optional
    for other eligible voters
Elections:
  National Congress:
    last held 17 June 1990 (next to be held 17 May 1992); results - percent of
    vote by party NA; seats - (72 total) PSC 16, ID 14, PRE 13, PSE 8, DP 7, CFP
    3, PC 3, PLR 3, FADI 2, FRA 2, MPD 1
  President:
    runoff election held 5 July 1992; results - Sixto DURAN elected as president
    and Alberto DAHIK elected as vice president
Communists:
    Communist Party of Ecuador (PCE, pro-Moscow), Rene Mauge MOSQUERA, secretary
    general, 5,000 members; Communist Party of Ecuador/Marxist-Leninist (PCMLE,
    Maoist), 3,000 members; Socialist Party of Ecuador (PSE, pro-Cuba), 5,000
    members (est.); National Liberation Party (PLN, Communist), less than 5,000
    members (est.)
Member of:
    AG, ECLAC, FAO, G-11, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, IDA, IFAD,
    IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, IOM, ITU, LAES, LAIA, LORCS,
    NAM, OAS, OPANAL, OPEC, PCA, RG, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WFTU,
    WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Jaime MONCAYO; Chancery at 2535 15th Street NW, Washington, DC
    20009; telephone (202) 234-7200; there are Ecuadorian Consulates General in
    Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami, New Orleans, New York, and San
    Francisco, and a Consulate in San Diego

:Ecuador Government

  US:
    Ambassador vacant; Embassy at Avenida 12 de Octubre y Avenida Patria; Quito
    (mailing address is P. O. Box 538, Quito, or APO AA 34039); telephone [593]
    (2) 562-890; FAX [593] (2) 502-052; there is a US Consulate General in
    Guayaquil
Flag:
    three horizontal bands of yellow (top, double width), blue, and red with the
    coat of arms superimposed at the center of the flag; similar to the flag of
    Colombia that is shorter and does not bear a coat of arms

:Ecuador Economy

Overview:
    Ecuador has substantial oil resources and rich agricultural areas. Growth
    has been uneven because of natural disasters (for example, a major
    earthquake in 1987), fluctuations in global oil prices, and government
    policies designed to curb inflation. The government has not taken a
    supportive attitude toward either domestic or foreign investment, although
    its agreement to enter the Andean free trade zone is an encouraging move. As
    1991 ended, Ecuador received a standby IMF loan of $105 million, which will
    permit the country to proceed with the rescheduling of Paris Club debt.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $11.5 billion, per capita $1,070; real growth
    rate 2.5% (1991)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    49% (1991)
Unemployment rate:
    8.0% (1990)
Budget:
    revenues $2.2 billion; expenditures $2.2 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $375 million (1991)
Exports:
    $2.9 billion (f.o.b., 1991)
  commodities:
    petroleum 47%, coffee, bananas, cocoa products, shrimp, fish products
  partners:
    US 60%, Latin America, Caribbean, EC countries
Imports:
    $1.95 billion (f.o.b., 1991)
  commodities:
    transport equipment, vehicles, machinery, chemicals
  partners:
    US 34%, Latin America, Caribbean, EC, Japan
External debt:
    $12.4 billion (December 1991)
Industrial production:
    growth rate -3.8% (1989); accounts for almost 40% of GDP, including
    petroleum
Electricity:
    2,344,000 kW capacity; 6,430 million kWh produced, 598 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    petroleum, food processing, textiles, metal works, paper products, wood
    products, chemicals, plastics, fishing, timber
Agriculture:
    accounts for 18% of GDP and 35% of labor force (including fishing and
    forestry); leading producer and exporter of bananas and balsawood; other
    exports - coffee, cocoa, fish, shrimp; crop production - rice, potatoes,
    manioc, plantains, sugarcane; livestock sector - cattle, sheep, hogs, beef,
    pork, dairy products; net importer of foodgrains, dairy products, and sugar
Illicit drugs:
    minor illicit producer of coca following the successful eradication campaign
    of 1985-87; significant transit country, however, for derivatives of coca
    originating in Colombia, Bolivia, and Peru
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $498 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $2.15 billion;
    Communist countries (1970-89), $64 million
Currency:
    sucre (plural - sucres); 1 sucre (S/) = 100 centavos

:Ecuador Economy

Exchange rates:
    sucres (S/) per US$1 - 1,046.25 (1991), 869.54 (December 1990), 767.75
    (1990), 526.35 (1989), 301.61 (1988), 170.46 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Ecuador Communications

Railroads:
    965 km total; all 1.067-meter-gauge single track
Highways:
    28,000 km total; 3,600 km paved, 17,400 km gravel and improved earth, 7,000
    km unimproved earth
Inland waterways:
    1,500 km
Pipelines:
    crude oil 800 km; petroleum products 1,358 km
Ports:
    Guayaquil, Manta, Puerto Bolivar, Esmeraldas
Merchant marine:
    46 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 337,999 GRT/491,996 DWT; includes 2
    passenger, 4 cargo, 17 refrigerated cargo, 4 container, 1 roll-on/roll-off,
    15 petroleum tanker, 1 liquefied gas, 2 bulk
Civil air:
    23 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    143 total, 142 usable; 43 with permanent-surface runways; 1 with runway over
    3,659 m; 6 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 23 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    domestic facilities generally adequate; 318,000 telephones; broadcast
    stations - 272 AM, no FM, 33 TV, 39 shortwave; 1 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT
    earth station

:Ecuador Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army (Ejercito Ecuatoriano), Navy (Armada Ecuatoriana), Air Force (Fuerza
    Aerea Ecuatoriana), National Police
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 2,804,260; 1,898,401 fit for military service; 115,139 reach
    military age (20) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $NA, NA% of GDP

:Egypt Geography

Total area:
    1,001,450 km2
Land area:
    995,450 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly more than three times the size of New Mexico
Land boundaries:
    2,689 km; Gaza Strip 11 km, Israel 255 km, Libya 1,150 km, Sudan 1,273 km
Coastline:
    2,450 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    24 nm
  Continental shelf:
    200 m (depth) or to depth of exploitation
  Exclusive economic zone:
    undefined
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    Administrative boundary with Sudan does not coincide with international
    boundary
Climate:
    desert; hot, dry summers with moderate winters
Terrain:
    vast desert plateau interrupted by Nile valley and delta
Natural resources:
    crude oil, natural gas, iron ore, phosphates, manganese, limestone, gypsum,
    talc, asbestos, lead, zinc
Land use:
    arable land 3%; permanent crops 2%; meadows and pastures 0%; forest and
    woodland NEGL%; other 95%; includes irrigated 5%
Environment:
    Nile is only perennial water source; increasing soil salinization below
    Aswan High Dam; hot, driving windstorm called khamsin occurs in spring;
    water pollution; desertification
Note:
    controls Sinai Peninsula, only land bridge between Africa and remainder of
    Eastern Hemisphere; controls Suez Canal, shortest sea link between Indian
    Ocean and Mediterranean; size and juxtaposition to Israel establish its
    major role in Middle Eastern geopolitics

:Egypt People

Population:
    56,368,950 (July 1992), growth rate 2.3% (1992)
Birth rate:
    33 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    9 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    NEGL migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    80 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    58 years male, 62 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    4.4 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Egyptian(s); adjective - Egyptian
Ethnic divisions:
    Eastern Hamitic stock 90%; Greek, Italian, Syro-Lebanese 10%
Religions:
    (official estimate) Muslim (mostly Sunni) 94%; Coptic Christian and other 6%
Languages:
    Arabic (official); English and French widely understood by educated classes
Literacy:
    48% (male 63%, female 34%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    15,000,000 (1989 est.); government, public sector enterprises, and armed
    forces 36%; agriculture 34%; privately owned service and manufacturing
    enterprises 20% (1984); shortage of skilled labor; 2,500,000 Egyptians work
    abroad, mostly in Iraq and the Gulf Arab states (1988 est.)
Organized labor:
    2,500,000 (est.)

:Egypt Government

Long-form name:
    Arab Republic of Egypt
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Cairo
Administrative divisions:
    26 governorates (muhafazah, singular - muhafazah); Ad Daqahliyah, Al Bahr al
    Ahmar, Al Buchayrah, Al Fayyum, Al Gharbiyah, Al Iskandariyah, Al
    Isma`iliyah, Al Jizah, Al Minufiyah, Al Minya, Al Qahirah, Al Qalyubiyah, Al
    Wadi al Jadid, Ash Sharqiyah, As Suways, Aswan, Asyu`t, Bani Suwayf, Bur
    Sa`id, Dumyat, Janub Sina, Kafr ash Shaykh, Matruh, Qina, Shamal Sina, Suhaj
Independence:
    28 February 1922 (from UK); formerly United Arab Republic
Constitution:
    11 September 1971
Legal system:
    based on English common law, Islamic law, and Napoleonic codes; judicial
    review by Supreme Court and Council of State (oversees validity of
    administrative decisions); accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with
    reservations
National holiday:
    Anniversary of the Revolution, 23 July (1952)
Executive branch:
    president, prime minister, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    unicameral People's Assembly (Majlis al-Cha'b); note - there is an Advisory
    Council (Majlis al-Shura) that functions in a consultative role
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Constitutional Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Mohammed Hosni MUBARAK (was made acting President on 6 October
    1981 upon the assassination of President SADAT and sworn in as President on
    14 October 1981)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Atef Mohammed Najib SEDKY (since 12 November 1986)
Political parties and leaders:
    formation of political parties must be approved by government; National
    Democratic Party (NDP), President Mohammed Hosni MUBARAK, leader, is the
    dominant party; legal opposition parties are Socialist Liberal Party (SLP),
    Kamal MURAD; Socialist Labor Party, Ibrahim SHUKRI; National Progressive
    Unionist Grouping (NPUG), Khalid MUHYI-AL-DIN; Umma Party, Ahmad al-SABAHI;
    New Wafd Party (NWP), Fu'd SIRAJ AL-DIN; Misr al-Fatah Party (Young Egypt
    Party), Ali al-Din SALIH; The Greens Party, Hasan RAJAB; Nasserist Arab
    Democratic Party, Dia' AL-DIN DAWOUD
Suffrage:
    universal and compulsory at age 18
Elections:
  Advisory Council:
    last held 8 June 1989 (next to be held June 1995); results - NDP 100%; seats
    - (258 total, 172 elected) NDP 172
  People's Assembly:
    last held 29 November 1990 (next to be held November 1995); results - NDP
    78.4%, NPUG 1.4%, independents 18.7%; seats - (437 total, 444 elected) -
    including NDP 348, NPUG 6, independents 83; note - most opposition parties
    boycotted

:Egypt Government

  President:
    last held 5 October 1987 (next to be held October 1993); results - President
    Hosni MUBARAK was reelected
Communists:
    about 500 party members
Other political or pressure groups:
    Islamic groups are illegal, but the largest one, the Muslim Brotherhood, is
    tolerated by the government; trade unions and professional associations are
    officially sanctioned
Member of:
    ACC, ACCT (associate), AfDB, AFESD, AG (observer), AL, AMF, CAEU, CCC, EBRD,
    ECA, ESCWA, FAO, G-15, G-19, G-24, G-77, GATT, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, IDA,
    IDB, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INMARSAT, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, IOM
    (observer), ISO, ITU, LORCS, NAM, OAPEC, OAS (observer), OAU, OIC, PCA, UN,
    UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNRWA, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador El Sayed Abdel Raouf EL REEDY; Chancery at 2310 Decatur Place NW,
    Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 232-5400; there are Egyptian
    Consulates General in Chicago, Houston, New York, and San Francisco
  US:
    Ambassador Robert PELLETREAU; Embassy at Lazougi Street, Garden City, Cairo
    (mailing address is APO AE 09839); telephone [20] (2) 355-7371; FAX [20] (2)
    355-7375; there is a US Consulate General in Alexandria
Flag:
    three equal horizontal bands of red (top), white, and black with the
    national emblem (a shield superimposed on a golden eagle facing the hoist
    side above a scroll bearing the name of the country in Arabic) centered in
    the white band; similar to the flag of Yemen, which has a plain white band;
    also similar to the flag of Syria that has two green stars and to the flag
    of Iraq, which has three green stars (plus an Arabic inscription) in a
    horizontal line centered in the white band

:Egypt Economy

Overview:
    Egypt has one of the largest public sectors of all the Third World
    economies, most industrial plants being owned by the government.
    Overregulation holds back technical modernization and foreign investment.
    Even so, the economy grew rapidly during the late 1970s and early 1980s, but
    in 1986 the collapse of world oil prices and an increasingly heavy burden of
    debt servicing led Egypt to begin negotiations with the IMF for
    balance-of-payments support. As part of the 1987 agreement with the IMF, the
    government agreed to institute a reform program to reduce inflation, promote
    economic growth, and improve its external position. The reforms have been
    slow in coming, however, and the economy has been largely stagnant for the
    past four years. The addition of 1 million people every seven months to
    Egypt's population exerts enormous pressure on the 5% of the total land area
    available for agriculture.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $39.2 billion, per capita $720; real growth rate
    2% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    17% (1991 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    15% (1991 est.)
Budget:
    revenues $9.4 billion; expenditures $15.9 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $6 billion (FY90 est.)
Exports:
    $4.5 billion (f.o.b., 1991 est.)
  commodities:
    crude oil and petroleum products, cotton yarn, raw cotton, textiles, metal
    products, chemicals
  partners:
    EC, Eastern Europe, US, Japan
Imports:
    $11.7 billion (f.o.b., 1991 est.)
  commodities:
    machinery and equipment, foods, fertilizers, wood products, durable consumer
    goods, capital goods
  partners:
    EC, US, Japan, Eastern Europe
External debt:
    $38 billion (December 1991 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 7.3% (FY89 est.); accounts for 18% of GDP
Electricity:
    13,500,000 kW capacity; 45,000 million kWh produced, 820 kWh per capita
    (1991)
Industries:
    textiles, food processing, tourism, chemicals, petroleum, construction,
    cement, metals
Agriculture:
    accounts for 20% of GDP and employs more than one-third of labor force;
    dependent on irrigation water from the Nile; world's sixth-largest cotton
    exporter; other crops produced include rice, corn, wheat, beans, fruit,
    vegetables; not self-sufficient in food; livestock - cattle, water buffalo,
    sheep, and goats; annual fish catch about 140,000 metric tons
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $15.7 billion; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-88), $10.1 billion; OPEC
    bilateral aid (1979-89), $2.9 billion; Communist countries (1970-89), $2.4
    billion

:Egypt Economy

Currency:
    Egyptian pound (plural - pounds); 1 Egyptian pound (#E) = 100 piasters
Exchange rates:
    Egyptian pounds (#E) per US$1 - 3.3310 (January 1992), 2.7072 (1990), 2.5171
    (1989), 2.2233 (1988), 1.5183 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    1 July - 30 June

:Egypt Communications

Railroads:
    5,110 km total; 4,763 km 1,435-meter standard gauge, 347 km 0.750-meter
    gauge; 951 km double track; 25 km electrified
Highways:
    51,925 km total; 17,900 km paved, 2,500 km gravel, 13,500 km improved earth,
    18,025 km unimproved earth
Inland waterways:
    3,500 km (including the Nile, Lake Nasser, Alexandria-Cairo Waterway, and
    numerous smaller canals in the delta); Suez Canal, 193.5 km long (including
    approaches), used by oceangoing vessels drawing up to 16.1 meters of water
Pipelines:
    crude oil 1,171 km; petroleum products 596 km; natural gas 460 km
Ports:
    Alexandria, Port Said, Suez, Bur Safajah, Damietta
Merchant marine:
    150 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 1,019,182 GRT/1,499,880 DWT; includes
    11 passenger, 5 short-sea passenger, 2 passenger-cargo, 86 cargo, 3
    refrigerated cargo, 15 roll-on/roll-off, 12 petroleum tanker, 15 bulk, 1
    container
Civil air:
    50 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    92 total, 82 usable; 66 with permanent-surface runways; 2 with runways over
    3,659 m; 44 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 24 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    system is large but still inadequate for needs; principal centers are
    Alexandria, Cairo, Al Mansurah, Ismailia, Suez and Tanta; intercity
    connections by coaxial cable and microwave; extensive upgrading in progress;
    600,000 telephones (est.); broadcast stations - 39 AM, 6 FM, 41 TV;
    satellite earth stations - 1 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT, 1 Indian Ocean
    INTELSAT, 1 INMARSAT, 1 ARABSAT; 5 submarine coaxial cables; tropospheric
    scatter to Sudan; radio relay to Libya, Israel, and Jordan

:Egypt Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Navy, Air Force, Air Defense Command
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 13,911,006; 9,044,425 fit for military service; 563,321 reach
    military age (20) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $2.5 billion, 6.4% of GDP (1991)

:El Salvador Geography

Total area:
    21,040 km2
Land area:
    20,720 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than Massachusetts
Land boundaries:
    545 km; Guatemala 203 km, Honduras 342 km
Coastline:
    307 km
Maritime claims:
  Territorial sea:
    200 nm (overflight and navigation permitted beyond 12 nm)
Disputes:
    dispute with Honduras over several sections of the land boundary; dispute
    over Golfo de Fonseca maritime boundary because of disputed sovereignty of
    islands
Climate:
    tropical; rainy season (May to October); dry season (November to April)
Terrain:
    mostly mountains with narrow coastal belt and central plateau
Natural resources:
    hydropower, geothermal power, crude oil
Land use:
    arable land 27%; permanent crops 8%; meadows and pastures 29%; forest and
    woodland 6%; other 30%; includes irrigated 5%
Environment:
    The Land of Volcanoes; subject to frequent and sometimes very destructive
    earthquakes; deforestation; soil erosion; water pollution
Note:
    smallest Central American country and only one without a coastline on
    Caribbean Sea

:El Salvador People

Population:
    5,574,279 (July 1992), growth rate 2.2% (1992)
Birth rate:
    33 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    5 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    - 6 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    26 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    68 years male, 75 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    4.0 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Salvadoran(s); adjective - Salvadoran
Ethnic divisions:
    mestizo 89%, Indian 10%, white 1%
Religions:
    Roman Catholic about 75%, with extensive activity by Protestant groups
    throughout the country (more than 1 million Protestant evangelicals in El
    Salvador at the end of 1990)
Languages:
    Spanish, Nahua (among some Indians)
Literacy:
    73% (male 76%, female 70%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    1,700,000 (1982 est.); agriculture 40%, commerce 16%, manufacturing 15%,
    government 13%, financial services 9%, transportation 6%, other 1%; shortage
    of skilled labor and a large pool of unskilled labor, but manpower training
    programs improving situation (1984 est.)
Organized labor:
    total labor force 15%; agricultural labor force 10%; urban labor force 7%
    (1987 est.)

:El Salvador Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of El Salvador
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    San Salvador
Administrative divisions:
    14 departments (departamentos, singular - departamento); Ahuachapan,
    Cabanas, Chalatenango, Cuscatlan, La Libertad, La Paz, La Union, Morazan,
    San Miguel, San Salvador, Santa Ana, San Vicente, Sonsonate, Usulutan
Independence:
    15 September 1821 (from Spain)
Constitution:
    20 December 1983
Legal system:
    based on civil and Roman law, with traces of common law; judicial review of
    legislative acts in the Supreme Court; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction,
    with reservations
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 15 September (1821)
Executive branch:
    president, vice president, Council of Ministers (cabinet)
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Legislative Assembly (Asamblea Legislativa)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court (Corte Suprema)
Leaders:
  Chief of State and Head of Government:
    President Alfredo CRISTIANI Buchard (since 1 June 1989); Vice President Jose
    Francisco MERINO (since 1 June 1989)
Political parties and leaders:
    National Republican Alliance (ARENA), Armando CALDERON Sol; Christian
    Democratic Party (PDC), Fidel CHAVEZ Mena; National Conciliation Party
    (PCN), Ciro CRUZ Zepeda; National Democratic Union (UDN), Mario AGUINADA
    Carranza; the Democratic Convergence (CD) is a coalition of three parties -
    the Social Democratic Party (PSD), Wilfredo BARILLAS; the National
    Revolutionary Movement (MNR), Victor VALLE; and the Popular Social Christian
    Movement (MPSC), Ruben ZAMORA; Authentic Christian Movement (MAC), Julio REY
    PRENDES; Democratic Action (AD), Ricardo GONZALEZ Camacho
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  Legislative Assembly:
    last held 10 March 1991 (next to be held March 1994); results - ARENA 44.3%,
    PDC 27.96%, CD 12.16%, PCN 8.99%, MAC 3.23%, UDN 2.68%; seats - (84 total)
    ARENA 39, PDC 26, PCN 9, CD 8, UDN 1, MAC 1
  President:
    last held 19 March 1989 (next to be held March 1994); results - Alfredo
    CRISTIANI (ARENA) 53.8%, Fidel CHAVEZ Mena (PDC) 36.6%, other 9.6%
Other political or pressure groups:
  Business organizations:
    National Association of Private Enterprise (ANEP), conservative; Productive
    Alliance (AP), conservative; National Federation of Salvadoran Small
    Businessmen (FENAPES), conservative

:El Salvador Government

  FMLN front organizations:
    Labor fronts include - National Union of Salvadoran Workers (UNTS), leftist
    umbrella front group, leads FMLN front network; National Federation of
    Salvadoran Workers (FENASTRAS), best organized of front groups and
    controlled by FMLN's National Resistance (RN); Social Security Institute
    Workers Union (STISSS), one of the most militant fronts, is controlled by
    FMLN's Armed Forces of National Resistance (FARN) and RN; Association of
    Telecommunications Workers (ASTTEL); Centralized Union Federation of El
    Salvador (FUSS); Treasury Ministry Employees (AGEMHA); Nonlabor fronts
    include - Committee of Mothers and Families of Political Prisoners,
    Disappeared Persons, and Assassinated of El Salvador (COMADRES);
    Nongovernmental Human Rights Commission (CDHES); Committee of Dismissed and
    Unemployed of El Salvador (CODYDES); General Association of Salvadoran
    University Students (AGEUS); National Association of Salvadoran Educators
    (ANDES-21 DE JUNIO); Salvadoran Revolutionary Student Front (FERS),
    associated with the Popular Forces of Liberation (FPL); Association of
    National University Educators (ADUES); Salvadoran University Students Front
    (FEUS); Christian Committee for the Displaced of El Salvador (CRIPDES), an
    FPL front; The Association for Communal Development in El Salvador
    (PADECOES), controlled by the People's Revolutionary Army (ERP);
    Confederation of Cooperative Associations of El Salvador (COACES)
Other political or pressure groups:
  Labor organizations:
    Federation of Construction and Transport Workers Unions (FESINCONSTRANS),
    independent; Salvadoran Communal Union (UCS), peasant association; Unitary
    Federation of Salvadoran Unions (FUSS), leftist; National Federation of
    Salvadoran Workers (FENASTRAS), leftist; Democratic Workers Central (CTD),
    moderate; General Confederation of Workers (CGT), moderate; National Unity
    of Salvadoran Workers (UNTS), leftist; National Union of Workers and
    Peasants (UNOC), moderate labor coalition of democratic labor organizations;
    United Workers Front (FUT)
  Leftist political parties:
    National Democratic Union (UDN), National Revolutionary Movement (MNR), and
    Popular Social Movement (MPSC)
  Leftist revolutionary movement:
    Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front (FMLN), leadership body of the
    insurgency, five factions - Popular Liberation Forces (FPL), Armed Forces of
    National Resistance (FARN), People's Revolutionary Army (ERP), Salvadoran
    Communist Party/Armed Forces of Liberation (PCES/FAL), and Central American
    Workers' Revolutionary Party (PRTC)/Popular Liberation Revolutionary Armed
    Forces (FARLP)
Member of:
    BCIE, CACM, ECLAC, FAO, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, IDA, IFAD, IFC,
    ILO, IMF, IMO, INTELSAT, IOC, IOM, ITU, LAES, LORCS, NAM (observer), OAS,
    OPANAL, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Miguel Angel SALAVERRIA; Chancery at 2308 California Street NW,
    Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 265-9671 through 3482; there are
    Salvadoran Consulates General in Houston, Los Angeles, Miami, New Orleans,
    New York, and San Francisco
  US:
    Ambassador William G. WALKER; Embassy at 25 Avenida Norte No. 1230, San
    Salvador (mailing address is APO AA 34023); telephone [503] 26-7100; FAX
    [503] (26) 5839

:El Salvador Government

Flag:
    three equal horizontal bands of blue (top), white, and blue with the
    national coat of arms centered in the white band; the coat of arms features
    a round emblem encircled by the words REPUBLICA DE EL SALVADOR EN LA AMERICA
    CENTRAL; similar to the flag of Nicaragua, which has a different coat of
    arms centered in the white band - it features a triangle encircled by the
    words REPUBLICA DE NICARAGUA on top and AMERICA CENTRAL on the bottom; also
    similar to the flag of Honduras, which has five blue stars arranged in an X
    pattern centered in the white band

:El Salvador Economy

Overview:
    The agricultural sector accounts for 25% of GDP, employs about 40% of the
    labor force, and contributes about 66% to total exports. Coffee is the major
    commercial crop, accounting for 45% of export earnings. The manufacturing
    sector, based largely on food and beverage processing, accounts for 18% of
    GDP and 15% of employment. Economic losses because of guerrilla sabotage
    total more than $2 billion since 1979. The costs of maintaining a large
    military seriously constrain the government's efforts to provide essential
    social services. Nevertheless, growth in national output during the period
    1990-91 exceeded growth in population for the first time since 1987.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $5.5 billion, per capita $1,010; real growth rate
    3% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    19% (1990)
Unemployment rate:
    10% (1989)
Budget:
    revenues $751 million; expenditures $790 million, including capital
    expenditures of $NA (1990 est.)
Exports:
    $580 million (f.o.b., 1990 est.)
  commodities:
    coffee 45%, sugar, cotton, shrimp
  partners:
    US 49%, Germany 24%, Guatemala 7%, Costa Rica 4%, Japan 4%
Imports:
    $1.2 billion (c.i.f., 1990 est.)
  commodities:
    petroleum products, consumer goods, foodstuffs, machinery, construction
    materials, fertilizer
  partners:
    US 40%, Guatemala 12%, Venezuela 7%, Mexico 7%, Germany 5%, Japan 4%
External debt:
    $2.0 billion (December 1990 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 2.4% (1990); accounts for 22% of GDP
Electricity:
    682,000 kW capacity; 1,927 million kWh produced, 356 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    food processing, textiles, clothing, beverages, petroleum, tobacco products,
    chemicals, furniture
Agriculture:
    accounts for 25% of GDP and 40% of labor force (including fishing and
    forestry); coffee most important commercial crop; other products -
    sugarcane, corn, rice, beans, oilseeds, beef, dairy products, shrimp; not
    self-sufficient in food
Illicit drugs:
    transshipment point for cocaine
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-90), $2.95 billion; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $525 million
Currency:
    Salvadoran colon (plural - colones); 1 Salvadoran colon (C) = 100 centavos
Exchange rates:
    Salvadoran colones (C) per US$1 - 8.1 (January 1992), floating rate since
    mid-1990); 5.0000 (fixed rate 1986 to mid-1990)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:El Salvador Communications

Railroads:
    602 km 0.914-meter gauge, single track
Highways:
    10,000 km total; 1,500 km paved, 4,100 km gravel, 4,400 km improved and
    unimproved earth
Inland waterways:
    Rio Lempa partially navigable
Ports:
    Acajutla, Cutuco
Civil air:
    7 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    107 total, 77 usable; 5 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 1 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 4 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    nationwide trunk radio relay system; connection into Central American
    Microwave System; 116,000 telephones; broadcast stations - 77 AM, no FM, 5
    TV, 2 shortwave; 1 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT earth station

:El Salvador Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Navy, Air Force, National Guard, National Police, Treasury Police
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 1,265,149; 809,419 fit for military service; 68,445 reach
    military age (18) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $220 million, 3.6% of GDP (1991)

:Equatorial Guinea Geography

Total area:
    28,050 km2
Land area:
    28,050 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than Maryland
Land boundaries:
    539 km; Cameroon 189 km, Gabon 350 km
Coastline:
    296 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    maritime boundary dispute with Gabon because of disputed sovereignty over
    islands in Corisco Bay
Climate:
    tropical; always hot, humid
Terrain:
    coastal plains rise to interior hills; islands are volcanic
Natural resources:
    timber, crude oil, small unexploited deposits of gold, manganese, uranium
Land use:
    arable land 8%; permanent crops 4%; meadows and pastures 4%; forest and
    woodland 51%; other 33%
Environment:
    subject to violent windstorms
Note:
    insular and continental regions rather widely separated

:Equatorial Guinea People

Population:
    388,799 (July 1992), growth rate 2.6% (1992)
Birth rate:
    42 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    15 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    107 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    49 years male, 53 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    5.4 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Equatorial Guinean(s) or Equatoguinean(s); adjective - Equatorial
    Guinean or Equatoguinean
Ethnic divisions:
    indigenous population of Bioko, primarily Bubi, some Fernandinos; Rio Muni,
    primarily Fang; less than 1,000 Europeans, mostly Spanish
Religions:
    natives all nominally Christian and predominantly Roman Catholic; some pagan
    practices retained
Languages:
    Spanish (official), pidgin English, Fang, Bubi, Ibo
Literacy:
    50% (male 64%, female 37%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    172,000 (1986 est.); agriculture 66%, services 23%, industry 11% (1980);
    labor shortages on plantations; 58% of population of working age (1985)
Organized labor:
    no formal trade unions

:Equatorial Guinea Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Equatorial Guinea
Type:
    republic in transition to multiparty democracy
Capital:
    Malabo
Administrative divisions:
    7 provinces (provincias, singular - provincia); Annobon, Bioko Norte, Bioko
    Sur, Centro Sur, Kie-Ntem, Litoral, Wele-Nzas
Independence:
    12 October 1968 (from Spain; formerly Spanish Guinea)
Constitution:
    new constitution 17 November 1991
Legal system:
    partly based on Spanish civil law and tribal custom
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 12 October (1968)
Executive branch:
    president, prime minister, deputy prime minister, Council of Ministers
    (cabinet)
Legislative branch:
    unicameral House of Representatives of the People (Camara de Representantes
    del Pueblo)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Tribunal
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Brig. Gen. (Ret.) Teodoro OBIANG NGUEMA MBASOGO (since 3 August
    1979)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Cristino SERICHE BIOKO MALABO (since 15 August 1982); Deputy
    Prime Minister Isidoro Eyi MONSUY ANDEME (since 15 August 1989)
Political parties and leaders:
    only party - Democratic Party for Equatorial Guinea (PDGE), Brig. Gen.
    (Ret.) Teodoro OBIANG NGUEMA MBASOGO, party leader; multipartyism legalized
    in new constitution of November 1991, promulgated January 1992
Suffrage:
    universal adult at age NA
Elections:
  Chamber of People's Representatives:
    last held 10 July 1988 (next to be held 10 July 1993); results - PDGE is the
    only party; seats - (41 total) PDGE 41
  President:
    last held 25 June 1989 (next to be held 25 June 1996); results - President
    Brig. Gen. (Ret.) Teodoro OBIANG NGUEMA MBASOGO was reelected without
    opposition
Member of:
    ACP, AfDB, BDEAC, CEEAC, ECA, FAO, FZ, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, IDA, IFAD, ILO,
    IMF, IMO, INTERPOL, IOC, ITU, LORCS (associate), NAM, OAS (observer), OAU,
    UDEAC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WHO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Damaso OBIANG NDONG; Chancery (temporary) 57 Magnolia Avenue,
    Mount Vernon, NY 10553; telephone (914) 667-9664
  US:
    Ambassador John E. BENNETT; Embassy at Calle de Los Ministros, Malabo
    (mailing address is P.O. Box 597, Malabo); telephone [240] (9) 2185, 2406,
    2507; FAX [240] (9) 2164

:Equatorial Guinea Government

Flag:
    three equal horizontal bands of green (top), white, and red with a blue
    isosceles triangle based on the hoist side and the coat of arms centered in
    the white band; the coat of arms has six yellow six-pointed stars
    (representing the mainland and five offshore islands) above a gray shield
    bearing a silk-cotton tree and below which is a scroll with the motto
    UNIDAD, PAZ, JUSTICIA (Unity, Peace, Justice)

:Equatorial Guinea Economy

Overview:
    The economy, destroyed during the regime of former President Macias NGUEMA,
    is now based on agriculture, forestry, and fishing, which account for about
    half of GDP and nearly all exports. Subsistence agriculture predominates,
    with cocoa, coffee, and wood products providing income, foreign exchange,
    and government revenues. There is little industry. Commerce accounts for
    about 8% of GDP and the construction, public works, and service sectors for
    about 38%. Undeveloped natural resources include titanium, iron ore,
    manganese, uranium, and alluvial gold. Oil exploration, taking place under
    concessions offered to US, French, and Spanish firms, has been moderately
    successful.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $156 million, per capita $400; real growth rate
    1.6% (1988 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    3.6% (1990 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    NA%
Budget:
    revenues $27 million; expenditures $29 million, including capital
    expenditures of NA (1990 est.)
Exports:
    $37 million (f.o.b., 1990 est.)
  commodities:
    coffee, timber, cocoa beans
  partners:
    Spain 38.2%, Italy 12.2%, Netherlands 11.4%, FRG 6.9%, Nigeria 12.4 (1988)
Imports:
    $68.3 million (c.i.f., 1990)
  commodities:
    petroleum, food, beverages, clothing, machinery
  partners:
    France 25.9%, Spain 21.0%, Italy 16%, US 12.8%, Netherlands 8%, Germany
    3.1%, Gabon 2.9%, Nigeria 1.8 (1988)
External debt:
    $213 million (1990)
Industrial production:
    growth rate - 6.8% (1990 est.)
Electricity:
    23,000 kW capacity; 60 million kWh produced, 160 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    fishing, sawmilling
Agriculture:
    cash crops - timber and coffee from Rio Muni, cocoa from Bioko; food crops -
    rice, yams, cassava, bananas, oil palm nuts, manioc, livestock
Illicit drugs:
    transshipment point for illicit drugs from Central and Southwest Asia to
    Western Europe
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY81-89), $14 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89) $130 million;
    Communist countries (1970-89), $55 million
Currency:
    Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (plural - francs); 1 CFA franc (CFAF)
    = 100 centimes
Exchange rates:
    Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (CFAF) per US$1 - 269.01 (January
    1992), 282.11 (1991), 272.26 (1990), 319.01 (1989), 297.85 (1988), 300.54
    (1987)

:Equatorial Guinea Economy

Fiscal year:
    1 April - 31 March

:Equatorial Guinea Communications

Highways:
    Rio Muni - 2,460 km; Bioko - 300 km
Ports:
    Malabo, Bata
Merchant marine:
    2 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 6,413 GRT/6,699 DWT; includes 1 cargo
    and 1 passenger-cargo
Civil air:
    1 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    3 total, 3 usable; 2 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways over
    3,659 m; 1 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 1 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    poor system with adequate government services; international communications
    from Bata and Malabo to African and European countries; 2,000 telephones;
    broadcast stations - 2 AM, no FM, 1 TV; 1 Indian Ocean INTELSAT earth
    station

:Equatorial Guinea Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Navy, Air Force, National Guard, National Police
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 81,850; 41,528 fit for military service
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $NA, NA% of GNP

:Estonia Geography

Total area:
    45,100 km2
Land area:
    43,200 km2; (includes 1,520 islands in the Baltic Sea)
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than New Hampshire and Vermont combined
Land boundaries:
    557 km; Latvia 267 km, Russia 290 km
Coastline:
    1,393 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    NA nm
  Continental shelf:
    NA meter depth
  Exclusive economic zone:
    NA nm
  Exclusive fishing zone:
    NA nm
  Territorial sea:
    NA nm
Disputes:
    international small border strips along the northern (Narva) and southern
    (Petseri) sections of eastern border with Russia ceded to Russia in 1945 by
    the Estonian SSR
Climate:
    maritime, wet, moderate winters
Terrain:
    marshy, lowlands
Natural resources:
    shale oil, peat, phosphorite, amber
Land use:
    22% arable land; NA% permanent crops; 11% meadows and pastures; 31% forest
    and woodland; 21% other; includes NA% irrigated; 15% swamps and lakes
Environment:
    coastal waters largely polluted

:Estonia People

Population:
    1,607,349 (July 1992), growth rate 0.7% (1992)
Birth rate:
    16 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    12 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    3 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    25 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    65 years male, 74 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    2.3 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Estonian(s); adjective - Estonian
Ethnic divisions:
    Estonian 61.5%, Russian 30.3%, Ukrainian 3.17%, Byelorussian 1.8%, Finn
    1.1%, other 2.13% (1989)
Religions:
    Lutheran is primary denomination
Languages:
    Estonian NA% (official), Latvian NA%, Lithuanian NA%, Russian NA%, other NA%
Literacy:
    NA% (male NA%, female NA%)
Labor force:
    796,000; industry and construction 42%, agriculture and forestry 13%, other
    45% (1990)
Organized labor:
    NA

:Estonia Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Estonia
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Tallinn
Administrative divisions:
    none - all districts are under direct republic jurisdiction
Independence:
    8 November 1917; occupied by Germany in March 1918 and restored to power in
    November 1918; annexed by USSR 6 August 1940; declared independence 20
    August 1991 and regained independence from USSR 6 September 1991
Constitution:
    currently rewriting constitution, but readopted the constitution of 1938
Legal system:
    based on civil law system; no judicial review of legislative acts
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 24 February (1918)
Executive branch:
    prime minister
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Supreme Council
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Chairman, Supreme Council Arnold R'UTEL (since April 1983)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Tiit VAHI (since January 1992)
Political parties and leaders:
    Popular Front of Estonia (Rahvarinne), NA chairman; Estonian Christian
    Democratic Party, Aivar KALA, chairman; Estonian Christian Democratic Union,
    Illar HALLASTE, chairman; Estonian Heritage Society (EMS), Trivimi VELLISTE,
    chairman; Estonian National Independence Party (ERSP), Lagle PAREK,
    chairman; Estonian Social Democratic Party, Marju LAURISTIN, chairman;
    Estonian Green Party, Tonu OJA; Independent Estonian Communist Party, Vaino
    VALJAS; People's Centrist Party, Edgar SAVISAAR, chairman
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  Congress of Estonia:
    last held March 1990 (next to be held NA); note - Congress of Estonia is a
    quasi-governmental structure; results - percent of vote by party NA; seats -
    (495 total) number of seats by party NA
  President:
    last held NA 1990; (next to be held NA); results - NA
  Supreme Council:
    last held 18 March 1990; (next to be held NA); results - percent of vote by
    party NA; seats - (105 total) number of seats by party NA
Other political or pressure groups:
    NA
Member of:
    CSCE, IAEA, ICFTU, NACC, UN, UNCTAD
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Ernst JAAKSON, Legation of Estonia, Office of Consulate General,
    9 Rockefeller Plaza, Suite 1421, New York, NY 10020; telephone (212)
    247-1450

:Estonia Government

  US:
    Ambassador Robert C. FRASURE; Embassy at Kentmanni 20, Tallin EE 0001;
    telephone 011-[358] (49) 303-182 (cellular); FAX [358] (49) 306-817
    (cellular); note - dialing to Baltics still requires use of an international
    operator unless you use the cellular phone lines
Flag:
    pre-1940 flag restored by Supreme Soviet in May 1990; flag is three equal
    horizontal bands of blue, black, and white

:Estonia Economy

Overview:
    Starting in July 1991, under a new law on private ownership, small
    enterprises, such as retail shops and restaurants, were sold to private
    owners. The auctioning of large-scale enterprises is now in progress with
    the proceeds being held in escrow until the prior ownership (that is,
    Estonian or the Commonwealth of Independent States) can be established.
    Estonia ranks first in per capita consumption among the former Soviet
    republics. Agriculture is well developed, especially meat production, and
    provides a surplus for export. Only about one-fifth of the work force is in
    agriculture. The major share of the work force engages in manufacturing both
    capital and consumer goods based on raw materials and intermediate products
    from the other former Soviet republics. These manufactures are of high
    quality by ex-Soviet standards and are exported to the other republics.
    Estonia's mineral resources are limited to major deposits of shale oil (60%
    of old Soviet total) and phosphorites (400 million tons). Estonia has a
    large, relatively modern port and produces more than half of its own energy
    needs at highly polluting shale oil power plants. Like the other 14
    successor republics, Estonia is suffering through a difficult transitional
    period - between a collapsed command economic structure and a
    still-to-be-built market structure. It has advantages in the transition, not
    having suffered so long under the Soviet yoke and having better chances of
    developing profitable ties to the Nordic and West European countries.
GDP:
    $NA billion, per capita $NA; real growth rate -11% (1992)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    approximately 200% (1991)
Unemployment rate:
    NA%
Budget:
    revenues $NA million; expenditures $NA million, including capital
    expenditures of $NA million
Exports:
    $186 million (f.o.b., 1990)
  commodities:
    machinery 30%, food 17%, chemicals 11%, electric power 9%
  partners:
    Russia 50%, other former Soviet republics 30%, Ukraine 15%, West 5%
Imports:
    $1.2 billion (c.i.f., 1990)
  commodities:
    machinery 45%, oil 13%, chemicals 12%
  partners:
    NA
External debt:
    $650 million (end of 1991)
Industrial production:
    growth rate -9% (1991)
Electricity:
    3,305,000 kW capacity; 17,200 million kWh produced, 10,865 kWh per capita
    (1990)
Industries:
    accounts for 30% of labor force; oil shale, shipbuilding, phosphates,
    electric motors, excavators, cement, furniture, clothing, textiles, paper,
    shoes, apparel
Agriculture:
    employs 20% of work force; very efficient; net exports of meat, fish, dairy
    products, and potatoes; imports feedgrains for livestock; fruits and
    vegetables

:Estonia Economy

Illicit drugs:
    transshipment point for illicit drugs from Central and Southwest Asia to
    Western Europe
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (1992), $10 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-86), $NA million;
    Communist countries (1971-86), $NA million
Currency:
    kroon; to be introduced in 1992
Exchange rates:
    NA
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Estonia Communications

Railroads:
    1,030 km (includes NA km electrified); does not include industrial lines
    (1990)
Highways:
    30,300 km total (1990); 29,200 km hard surfaced; 1,100 km earth
Inland waterways:
    500 km perennially navigable
Pipelines:
    crude oil NA km, refined products NA km, natural gas NA km
Ports:
    maritime - Tallinn, Parnu; inland - Narva
Merchant marine:
    65 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 386,634 GRT/516,866 DWT; includes 51
    cargo, 6 roll-on/roll-off, 2 short-sea passenger, 6 bulk
Civil air:
    NA major transport aircraft
Airports:
    NA total, NA usable; NA with permanent-surface runways; NA with runways over
    3,659 m; NA with runways 2,440-3,659 m; NA with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    telephone diversity - NA; broadcast stations - 3 TV (provide Estonian
    programs as well as Moscow Ostenkino's first and second programs);
    international traffic is carried to the other former USSR republics by
    landline or microwave and to other countries by leased connection to the
    Moscow international gateway switch, by the Finnish cellular net, and by an
    old copper submarine cable to Finland

:Estonia Defense Forces

Branches:
    Republic Security Forces (internal and border troops), National Guard;
    Russian Forces (Ground, Navy, Air, Air Defense, and Border Guard)
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, total mobilized force projected 120,000-130,000; NA fit for
    military service; between 10,000-12,000 reach military age (18) annually
Defense expenditures:
    $NA, NA% of GDP

:Ethiopia Geography

Total area:
    1,221,900 km2
Land area:
    1,101,000 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly less than twice the size of Texas
Land boundaries:
    5,141 km; Djibouti 459 km, Kenya 861 km, Somalia 1,600 km, Sudan 2,221 km
Coastline:
    1,094 km
Maritime claims:
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    southern half of the boundary with Somalia is a Provisional Administrative
    Line; possible claim by Somalia based on unification of ethnic Somalis;
    territorial dispute with Somalia over the Ogaden; independence referendum in
    Eritrea scheduled for April 1992
Climate:
    tropical monsoon with wide topographic-induced variation; some areas prone
    to extended droughts
Terrain:
    high plateau with central mountain range divided by Great Rift Valley
Natural resources:
    small reserves of gold, platinum, copper, potash
Land use:
    arable land 12%; permanent crops 1%; meadows and pastures 41%; forest and
    woodland 24%; other 22%; includes irrigated NEGL%
Environment:
    geologically active Great Rift Valley susceptible to earthquakes, volcanic
    eruptions; deforestation; overgrazing; soil erosion; desertification;
    frequent droughts; famine
Note:
    strategic geopolitical position along world's busiest shipping lanes and
    close to Arabian oilfields

:Ethiopia People

Population:
    54,270,464 (July 1992), growth rate 3.2% (1992)
Birth rate:
    45 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    14 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    2 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    112 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    50 years male, 53 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    6.9 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Ethiopian(s); adjective - Ethiopian
Ethnic divisions:
    Oromo 40%, Amhara and Tigrean 32%, Sidamo 9%, Shankella 6%, Somali 6%, Afar
    4%, Gurage 2%, other 1%
Religions:
    Muslim 40-45%, Ethiopian Orthodox 35-40%, animist 15-20%, other 5%
Languages:
    Amharic (official), Tigrinya, Orominga, Guaraginga, Somali, Arabic, English
    (major foreign language taught in schools)
Literacy:
    62% (male NA%, female NA%) age 10 and over can read and write (1983 est.)
Labor force:
    18,000,000; agriculture and animal husbandry 80%, government and services
    12%, industry and construction 8% (1985)
Organized labor:
    All Ethiopian Trade Union formed by the government in January 1977 to
    represent 273,000 registered trade union members; was dissolved when the TGE
    came to power; labor code of 1975 is being redrafted

:Ethiopia Government

Long-form name:
    none
Type:
    on 28 May 1991 the Ethiopian People's Revolutionary Democratic Front (EPRDF)
    toppled the authoritarian government of MENGISTU Haile-Mariam and took
    control in Addis Ababa; the Transitional Government of Ethiopia (TGE),
    announced as a two-year transitional period; on 29 May 1991, Issayas
    AFEWORKE, secretary general of the Eritrean People's Liberation Front
    (EPLF), announced the formation of the Provisional Government in Eritrea
    (PGE), in preparation for an eventual referendum on independence for the
    province
Capital:
    Addis Ababa
Administrative divisions:
    14 administrative regions (astedader akababiwach, singular - astedader
    akababi) and 1 autonomous region* (rasgez akababi); Addis Ababa (Addis
    Ababa), Afar, Agew, Amhara, Benishangul, Ertra (Eritrea)*, Gambela,
    Gurage-Hadiya-Wolayta, Harer, Kefa, Omo, Oromo, Sidamo, Somali, Tigray
Independence:
    oldest independent country in Africa and one of the oldest in the world - at
    least 2,000 years
Constitution:
    to be redrafted by 1993
Legal system:
    NA
National holiday:
    National Revolution Day 12 September (1974)
Executive branch:
    president, prime minister, Council of Ministers
Legislative branch:
    Council of Representatives
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Interim President Meles ZENAWI (since 1 June 1991); transitional government
  Head of Government:
    Acting Prime Minister Tamirat LAYNE (since 6 June 1991)
Political parties and leaders:
    NA
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  Council of Representatives:
    last held 14 June 1987 (next to be held after new constitution drafted)
  President:
    last held 10 September 1987; next election planned after new constitution
    drafted; results - MENGISTU Haile-Mariam elected by the now defunct National
    Assembly, but resigned and left Ethiopia on 21 May 1991
Other political or pressure groups:
    Oromo Liberation Front (OLF); Ethiopian People's Revolutionary Party (EPRP);
    numerous small, ethnic-based groups have formed since Mengistu's resignation
Member of:
    ACP, AfDB, CCC, ECA, FAO, G-24, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, IDA, IFAD, IFC,
    IGADD, ILO, IMF, IMO, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, ISO, ITU, LORCS, NAM, OAU,
    UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Counselor, Charge d'Affaires ad interim Girma AMARE; Chancery at 2134
    Kalorama Road NW, Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 234-2281 or 2282

:Ethiopia Government

  US:
    Charge d'Affaires Marc A. BAAS; Embassy at Entoto Street, Addis Ababa
    (mailing address is P. O. Box 1014, Addis Ababa); telephone [251] (01)
    550666; FAX [251] (1) 551-166
Flag:
    three equal horizontal bands of green (top), yellow, and red; Ethiopia is
    the oldest independent country in Africa, and the colors of her flag were so
    often adopted by other African countries upon independence that they became
    known as the pan-African colors

:Ethiopia Economy

Overview:
    Ethiopia is one of the poorest and least developed countries in Africa. Its
    economy is based on subsistence agriculture, which accounts for about 45% of
    GDP, 90% of exports, and 80% of total employment; coffee generates 60% of
    export earnings. The manufacturing sector is heavily dependent on inputs
    from the agricultural sector. Over 90% of large-scale industry, but less
    than 10% of agriculture, is state run; the government is considering selling
    off a portion of state-owned plants. Favorable agricultural weather largely
    explains the 4.5% growth in output in FY89, whereas drought and
    deteriorating internal security conditions prevented growth in FY90. In 1991
    the lack of law and order, particularly in the south, interfered with
    economic development and growth.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $6.6 billion, per capita $130, real growth rate-
    0.4% (FY90 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    5.2% (1989)
Unemployment rate:
    NA
Budget:
    revenues $1.8 billion; expenditures $1.7 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $842 million (FY88)
Exports:
    $429 million (f.o.b., FY88)
  commodities:
    coffee 60%, hides
  partners:
    US, FRG, Djibouti, Japan, PDRY, France, Italy, Saudi Arabia
Imports:
    $1.1 billion (c.i.f., FY88)
  commodities:
    food, fuels, capital goods
  partners:
    USSR, Italy, FRG, Japan, UK, US, France
External debt:
    $2.6 billion (1988)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 2.3% (FY89 est.); accounts for 13% of GDP
Electricity:
    330,000 kW capacity; 650 million kWh produced, 10 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    food processing, beverages, textiles, chemicals, metals processing, cement
Agriculture:
    accounts for 45% of GDP and is the most important sector of the economy even
    though frequent droughts and poor cultivation practices keep farm output
    low; famines not uncommon; export crops of coffee and oilseeds grown partly
    on state farms; estimated 50% of agricultural production at subsistence
    level; principal crops and livestock - cereals, pulses, coffee, oilseeds,
    sugarcane, potatoes and other vegetables, hides and skins, cattle, sheep,
    goats
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $504 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $3.4 billion; OPEC
    bilateral aid (1979-89), $8 million; Communist countries (1970-89), $2.0
    billion
Currency:
    birr (plural - birr); 1 birr (Br) = 100 cents
Exchange rates:
    birr (Br) per US$1 - 2.0700 (fixed rate)

:Ethiopia Economy

Fiscal year:
    8 July - 7 July

:Ethiopia Communications

Railroads:
    988 km total; 681 km 1.000-meter gauge; 307 km 0.950-meter gauge
    (nonoperational)
Highways:
    44,300 km total; 3,650 km paved, 9,650 km gravel, 3,000 km improved earth,
    28,000 km unimproved earth
Ports:
    Aseb, Mitsiwa
Merchant marine:
    12 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 62,627 GRT/88,909 DWT; includes 8
    cargo, 1 roll-on/roll off, 1 livestock carrier, 2 petroleum tanker
Civil air:
    25 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    123 total, 86 usable; 9 with permanent-surface runways; 1 with runways over
    3,659 m; 13 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 38 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    open-wire and radio relay system adequate for government use; open-wire to
    Sudan and Djibouti; radio relay to Kenya and Djibouti; broadcast stations -
    4 AM, no FM, 1 TV; 100,000 TV sets; 9,000,000 radios; 1 Atlantic Ocean
    INTELSAT earth station

:Ethiopia Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Navy, Air Force, Police Force
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 12,015,589; 6,230,680 fit for military service; 572,982 reach
    military age (18) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $760 million, 12.8% of GDP (1989)

:Europa Island Geography

Total area:
    28 km2
Land area:
    28 km2
Comparative area:
    about 0.2 times the size of Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    22.2 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    claimed by Madagascar
Climate:
    tropical
Terrain:
    NA
Natural resources:
    negligible
Land use:
    arable land NA%; permanent crops NA%; meadows and pastures NA%; forest and
    woodland NA%; other NA%; heavily wooded
Environment:
    wildlife sanctuary
Note:
    located in the Mozambique Channel 340 km west of Madagascar

:Europa Island People

Population:
    uninhabited

:Europa Island Government

Long-form name:
    none
Type:
    French possession administered by Commissioner of the Republic Jacques
    DEWATRE (as of July 1991); resident in Reunion
Capital:
    none; administered by France from Reunion

:Europa Island Economy

Overview:
    no economic activity

:Europa Island Communications

Ports:
    none; offshore anchorage only
Airports:
    1 with runways 1,220 to 2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    1 meteorological station

:Europa Island Defense Forces

Note:
    defense is the responsibility of France

:Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas) Geography

Total area:
    12,170 km2
Land area:
    12,170 km2; includes the two main islands of East and West Falkland and
    about 200 small islands
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than Connecticut
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    1,288 km
Maritime claims:
  Continental shelf:
    100 meter depth
  Exclusive fishing zone:
    150 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    administered by the UK, claimed by Argentina
Climate:
    cold marine; strong westerly winds, cloudy, humid; rain occurs on more than
    half of days in year; occasional snow all year, except in January and
    February, but does not accumulate
Terrain:
    rocky, hilly, mountainous with some boggy, undulating plains
Natural resources:
    fish and wildlife
Land use:
    arable land 0%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 99%; forest and
    woodland 0%; other 1%
Environment:
    poor soil fertility and a short growing season
Note:
    deeply indented coast provides good natural harbors

:Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas) People

Population:
    1,900 (July 1992), growth rate 0.2% (1992)
Birth rate:
    NA births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    NA deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    NA migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    NA deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    NA years male, NA years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    NA children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Falkland Islander(s); adjective - Falkland Island
Ethnic divisions:
    almost totally British
Religions:
    primarily Anglican, Roman Catholic, and United Free Church; Evangelist
    Church, Jehovah's Witnesses, Lutheran, Seventh-Day Adventist
Languages:
    English
Literacy:
    NA% (male NA%, female NA%) but compulsory education age 5 to 15 (1988)
Labor force:
    1,100 (est.); agriculture, mostly sheepherding about 95%
Organized labor:
    Falkland Islands General Employees Union, 400 members

:Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas) Government

Long-form name:
    Colony of the Falkland Islands
Type:
    dependent territory of the UK
Capital:
    Stanley
Administrative divisions:
    none (dependent territory of the UK)
Independence:
    none (dependent territory of the UK)
Constitution:
    3 October 1985
Legal system:
    English common law
National holiday:
    Liberation Day, 14 June (1982)
Executive branch:
    British monarch, governor, Executive Council
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Legislative Council
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952)
  Head of Government:
    Governor William Hugh FULLERTON (since NA 1988)
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  Legislative Council:
    last held 11 October 1989 (next to be held October 1994); results - percent
    of vote by party NA; seats - (10 total, 8 elected) number of seats by party
    NA
Member of:
    ICFTU
Diplomatic representation:
    none (dependent territory of the UK)
Flag:
    blue with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side quadrant and the
    Falkland Island coat of arms in a white disk centered on the outer half of
    the flag; the coat of arms contains a white ram (sheep raising is the major
    economic activity) above the sailing ship Desire (whose crew discovered the
    islands) with a scroll at the bottom bearing the motto DESIRE THE RIGHT

:Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas) Economy

Overview:
    The economy is based on sheep farming, which directly or indirectly employs
    most of the work force. A few dairy herds are kept to meet domestic
    consumption of milk and milk products, and crops grown are primarily those
    for providing winter fodder. Exports feature shipments of high-grade wool to
    the UK and the sale of postage stamps and coins. Rich stocks of fish in the
    surrounding waters are not presently exploited by the islanders. So far,
    efforts to establish a domestic fishing industry have been unsuccessful. In
    1987 the government began selling fishing licenses to foreign trawlers
    operating within the Falklands exclusive fishing zone. These license fees
    amount to more than $40 million per year and are a primary source of income
    for the government. To encourage tourism, the Falkland Islands Development
    Corporation has built three lodges for visitors attracted by the abundant
    wildlife and trout fishing.
GDP:
    $NA, per capita $NA; real growth rate NA%
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    7.4% (1980-87 average)
Unemployment rate:
    NA%; labor shortage
Budget:
    revenues $62.7 million; expenditures $41.8 million, excluding capital
    expenditures of $NA (FY90)
Exports:
    at least $14.7 million
  commodities:
    wool, hides and skins, and other
  partners:
    UK, Netherlands, Japan (1987 est.)
Imports:
    at least $13.9 million
  commodities:
    food, clothing, fuels, and machinery
  partners:
    UK, Netherlands Antilles (Curacao), Japan (1987 est.)
External debt:
    $NA
Industrial production:
    growth rate NA%
Electricity:
    9,200 kW capacity; 17 million kWh produced, 8,638 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    wool and fish processing
Agriculture:
    predominantly sheep farming; small dairy herds; some fodder and vegetable
    crops
Economic aid:
    Western (non-US) countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89),
    $277 million
Currency:
    Falkland pound (plural - pounds); 1 Falkland pound (#F) = 100 pence
Exchange rates:
    Falkland pound (#F) per US$1 - 0.5519 (January 1992), 0.5652 (1991), 0.5604
    (1990), 0.6099 (1989), 0.5614 (1988), 0.6102 (1987); note - the Falkland
    pound is at par with the British pound
Fiscal year:
    1 April - 31 March

:Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas) Communications

Highways:
    510 km total; 30 km paved, 80 km gravel, and 400 km unimproved earth
Ports:
    Port Stanley
Civil air:
    no major transport aircraft
Airports:
    5 total, 5 usable; 2 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways over
    3,659 m; 1 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; none with runways 1,220 to 2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    government-operated radiotelephone and private VHF/CB radio networks provide
    effective service to almost all points on both islands; 590 telephones;
    broadcast stations - 2 AM, 3 FM, no TV; 1 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT earth
    station with links through London to other countries

:Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas) Defense Forces

Branches:
    British Forces Falkland Islands (including Army, Royal Air Force, Royal
    Navy, and Royal Marines); Police Force
Note:
    defense is the responsibility of the UK

:Faroe Islands Geography

Total area:
    1,400 km2
Land area:
    1,400 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly less than eight times the size of Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    764 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive fishing zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    3 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    mild winters, cool summers; usually overcast; foggy, windy
Terrain:
    rugged, rocky, some low peaks; cliffs along most of coast
Natural resources:
    fish
Land use:
    arable land 2%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 0%; forest and
    woodland 0%; other 98%
Environment:
    precipitous terrain limits habitation to small coastal lowlands; archipelago
    of 18 inhabited islands and a few uninhabited islets
Note:
    strategically located along important sea lanes in northeastern Atlantic
    about midway between Iceland and Shetland Islands

:Faroe Islands People

Population:
    48,588 (July 1992), growth rate 0.9% (1992)
Birth rate:
    17 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    8 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    7 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    75 years male, 81 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    2.2 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Faroese (singular and plural); adjective - Faroese
Ethnic divisions:
    homogeneous Scandinavian population
Religions:
    Evangelical Lutheran
Languages:
    Faroese (derived from Old Norse), Danish
Literacy:
    NA% (male NA%, female NA%)
Labor force:
    17,585; largely engaged in fishing, manufacturing, transportation, and
    commerce
Organized labor:
    NA

:Faroe Islands Government

Long-form name:
    none
Type:
    part of the Danish realm; self-governing overseas administrative division of
    Denmark
Capital:
    Torshavn
Administrative divisions:
    none (self-governing overseas administrative division of Denmark)
Independence:
    part of the Danish realm; self-governing overseas administrative division of
    Denmark
Constitution:
    Danish
Legal system:
    Danish
National holiday:
    Birthday of the Queen, 16 April (1940)
Executive branch:
    Danish monarch, high commissioner, prime minister, deputy prime minister,
    Cabinet (Landsstyri)
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Parliament (Lgting)
Judicial branch:
    none
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Queen MARGRETHE II (since 14 January 1972), represented by High Commissioner
    Bent KLINTE (since NA)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Atli P. DAM (since 15 January 1991)
Political parties and leaders:
  opposition:
    Cooperation Coalition Party, Pauli ELLEFSEN; Republican Party, Signer
    HANSEN; Progressive and Fishing Industry Party-Christian People's Party
    (PFIP-CPP), leader NA; Progress Party, leader NA; Home Rule Party, Hilmar
    KASS
  two-party ruling coalition:
    Social Democratic Party, Atli P. DAM; People's Party, Jogvan SUND- STEIN
Suffrage:
    universal at age 20
Elections:
  Danish Parliament:
    last held on 12 December 1990 (next to be held by December 1994); results -
    percent of vote by party NA; seats - (2 total) Social Democratic 1, People's
    Party 1; note - the Faroe Islands elects two representatives to the Danish
    Parliament
  Faroese Parliament:
    last held 17 November 1990 (next to be held November 1994); results - Social
    Democratic 27.4%, People's Party 21.9%, Cooperation Coalition Party 18.9%,
    Republican Party 14.7%, Home Rule 8.8%, PFIP-CPP 5.9%, other 2.4%; seats -
    (32 total) two-party coalition 17 (Social Democratic 10, People's Party 7),
    Cooperation Coalition Party 6, Republican Party 4, Home Rule 3, PFIP-CPP 2
Diplomatic representation:
    none (self-governing overseas administrative division of Denmark)
Flag:
    white with a red cross outlined in blue that extends to the edges of the
    flag; the vertical part of the cross is shifted to the hoist side in the
    style of the DANNEBROG (Danish flag)

:Faroe Islands Economy

Overview:
    The Faroese, who have long been enjoying the affluent living standards of
    the Danes and other Scandinavians, now must cope with the decline of the
    all-important fishing industry and with an external debt twice the size of
    annual income. When the nations of the world extended their fishing zones to
    200 nautical miles in the early 1970s, the Faroese no longer could continue
    their traditional long-distance fishing and subsequently depleted their own
    nearby fishing areas. The government's tight controls on fish stocks and its
    austerity measures have caused a recession, and subsidy cuts will force
    further reductions in the fishing industry, which has already been plagued
    with bankrupcies. An annual Danish subsidy of $140 million continues to
    provide roughly one-third of the islands' budget revenues.
GDP:
    purchasing power equivalent - $662 million, per capita $14,000; real growth
    rate 3% (1989 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    2.0% (1988)
Unemployment rate:
    5-6% (1991 est.)
Budget:
    revenues $425 million; expenditures $480 million, including capital
    expenditures of NA (1991 est.)
Exports:
    $386 million (f.o.b., 1990 est.)
  commodities:
    fish and fish products 88%, animal feedstuffs, transport equipment (1989)
  partners:
    Denmark 20%, Germany 18.3%, UK 14.2%, France 11.2%, Spain 7.9%, US 4.5%
Imports:
    $322 million (c.i.f., 1990 est.)
  commodities:
    machinery and transport equipment 24.4%, manufactures 24%, food and
    livestock 19%, fuels 12%, chemicals 6.5%
  partners:
    Denmark 43.8%, Norway 19.8%, Sweden 4.9%, Germany 4.2%, US 1.3%
External debt:
    $1.3 billion (1989)
Industrial production:
    growth rate NA%
Electricity:
    80,000 kW capacity; 280 million kWh produced, 5,910 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    fishing, shipbuilding, handicrafts
Agriculture:
    accounts for 27% of GDP and employs 27% of labor force; principal crops -
    potatoes and vegetables; livestock - sheep; annual fish catch about 360,000
    metric tons
Economic aid:
    none
Currency:
    Danish krone (plural - kroner); 1 Danish krone (DKr) = 100 ore
Exchange rates:
    Danish kroner (DKr) per US$1 - 6.116 (January 1992), 6.396 (1991), 6.189
    (1990), 7.310 (1989), 6.732 (1988), 6.840 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    1 April - 31 March

:Faroe Islands Communications

Highways:
    200 km
Ports:
    Torshavn, Tvoroyri
Merchant marine:
    10 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 22,015 GRT/24,007 DWT; includes 1
    short-sea passenger, 5 cargo, 2 roll-on/roll-off, 2 refrigerated cargo; note
    - a subset of the Danish register
Airports:
    1 with permanent surface runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    good international communications; fair domestic facilities; 27,900
    telephones; broadcast stations - 1 AM, 3 (10 repeaters) FM, 3 (29 repeaters)
    TV; 3 coaxial submarine cables

:Faroe Islands Defense Forces

Branches:
    no organized native military forces; only a small Police Force is maintained
Note:
    defense is the responsibility of Denmark

:Fiji Geography

Total area:
    18,270 km2
Land area:
    18,270 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than New Jersey
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    1,129 km
Maritime claims:
    (measured from claimed archipelagic baselines)
  Continental shelf:
    200 m (depth) or to depth of exploitation; rectilinear shelf claim added
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    tropical marine; only slight seasonal temperature variation
Terrain:
    mostly mountains of volcanic origin
Natural resources:
    timber, fish, gold, copper; offshore oil potential
Land use:
    arable land 8%; permanent crops 5%; meadows and pastures 3%; forest and
    woodland 65%; other 19%; includes irrigated NEGL%
Environment:
    subject to hurricanes from November to January; includes 332 islands of
    which approximately 110 are inhabited
Note:
    located 2,500 km north of New Zealand in the South Pacific Ocean

:Fiji People

Population:
    749,946 (July 1992), growth rate 0.9% (1992)
Birth rate:
    25 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    7 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    -10 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    19 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    62 years male, 67 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    3.0 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Fijian(s); adjective - Fijian
Ethnic divisions:
    Indian 49%, Fijian 46%, European, other Pacific Islanders, overseas Chinese,
    and other 5%
Religions:
    Christian 52% (Methodist 37%, Roman Catholic 9%), Hindu 38%, Muslim 8%,
    other 2%; note - Fijians are mainly Christian, Indians are Hindu, and there
    is a Muslim minority (1986)
Languages:
    English (official); Fijian; Hindustani
Literacy:
    86% (male 90%, female 81%) age 15 and over can read and write (1985 est.)
Labor force:
    235,000; subsistence agriculture 67%, wage earners 18%, salary earners 15%
    (1987)
Organized labor:
    about 45,000 employees belong to some 46 trade unions, which are organized
    along lines of work and ethnic origin (1983)

:Fiji Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Fiji
Type:
    military coup leader Maj. Gen. Sitiveni RABUKA formally declared Fiji a
    republic on 6 October 1987
Capital:
    Suva
Administrative divisions:
    4 divisions and 1 dependency*; Central, Eastern, Northern, Rotuma*, Western
Independence:
    10 October 1970 (from UK)
Constitution:
    10 October 1970 (suspended 1 October 1987); a new Constitution was proposed
    on 23 September 1988 and promulgated on 25 July 1990
Legal system:
    based on British system
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 10 October (1970)
Executive branch:
    president, prime minister, Cabinet Great Councils of Chiefs (highest ranking
    members of the traditional chiefly system)
Legislative branch:
    the bicameral Parliament, consisting of an upper house or Senate and a lower
    house or House of Representatives, was dissolved following the coup of 14
    May 1987; the Constitution of 23 September 1988 provides for a bicameral
    Parliament
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Ratu Sir Penaia Kanatabatu GANILAU (since 5 December 1987)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Ratu Sir Kamisese MARA (since 5 December 1987); Deputy Prime
    Minister Josefata KAMIKAMICA (since October 1991); note - Ratu Sir Kamisese
    MARA served as prime minister from 10 October 1970 until the 5-11 April 1987
    election; after a second coup led by Maj. Gen. Sitiveni RABUKA on 25
    September 1987, Ratu Sir Kamisese MARA was reappointed as prime minister
Political parties and leaders:
    Fijian Political Party (primarily Fijian), leader Maj. Gen. Sitivini RABUKA;
    National Federation Party (NFP; primarily Indian), Siddiq KOYA; Christian
    Fijian Nationalist Party (CFNP), Sakeasi BUTADROKA; Fiji Labor Party (FLP),
    Jokapeci KOROI; All National Congress (ANC), Apisai TORA; General Voters
    Party (GVP), Max OLSSON; Fiji Conservative Party (FCP), Isireli VUIBAU;
    Conservative Party of Fiji (CPF), Jolale ULUDOLE and Viliame SAVU; Fiji
    Indian Liberal Party, Swami MAHARAJ; Fiji Indian Congress Party, Ishwari
    BAJPAI; Fiji Independent Labor (Muslim), leader NA; Four Corners Party,
    David TULVANUAVOU
Suffrage:
    none
Elections:
  House of Representatives:
    last held 14 May 1987 (next to be held 23-29 May 1992); results - percent of
    vote by party NA; seats - (70 total, with ethnic Fijians allocated 37 seats,
    ethnic Indians 27 seats, and independents and other 6 seats) number of seats
    by party NA
Member of:
    ACP, AsDB, CP, ESCAP, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, IDA, IFAD, IFC, ILO,
    IMF, IMO, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, ITU, LORCS, PCA, SPC, SPF, UN, UNCTAD,
    UNESCO, UNIDO, UNIFIL, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO

:Fiji Government

Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Pita Kewa NACUVA; Chancery at Suite 240, 2233 Wisconsin Avenue
    NW, Washington, DC 20007; telephone (202) 337-8320; there is a Fijian
    Consulate in New York
  US:
    Ambassador Evelyn I. H. TEEGEN; Embassy at 31 Loftus Street, Suva (mailing
    address is P. O. Box 218, Suva); telephone [679] 314-466; FAX [679] 300-081
Flag:
    light blue with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side quadrant and the
    Fijian shield centered on the outer half of the flag; the shield depicts a
    yellow lion above a white field quartered by the cross of Saint George
    featuring stalks of sugarcane, a palm tree, bananas, and a white dove

:Fiji Economy

Overview:
    Fiji's economy is primarily agricultural, with a large subsistence sector.
    Sugar exports are a major source of foreign exchange, and sugar processing
    accounts for one-third of industrial output. Industry, including sugar
    milling, contributes 13% to GDP. Fiji traditionally had earned considerable
    sums of hard currency from the 250,000 tourists who visited each year. In
    1987, however, after two military coups, the economy went into decline. GDP
    dropped by 7.8% in 1987 and by another 2.5% in 1988; political uncertainty
    created a drop in tourism, and the worst drought of the century caused sugar
    production to fall sharply. In contrast, sugar and tourism turned in strong
    performances in 1989, and the economy rebounded vigorously. In 1990 the
    economy received a setback from cyclone Sina, which cut sugar output by an
    estimated 21%.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $1.3 billion, per capita $1,700; real growth rate
    3.5% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    7.0% (1991)
Unemployment rate:
    5.9% (1991 est.)
Budget:
    revenues $413 million; expenditures $464 million, including capital
    expenditures of NA (1992 est.)
Exports:
    $646 million (f.o.b., 1991 est.)
  commodities:
    sugar 40%, gold, clothing, copra, processed fish, lumber
  partners:
    EC 31%, Australia 21%, Japan 8%, US 6%
Imports:
    $840 million (c.i.f., 1991 est.)
  commodities:
    machinery and transport equipment 32%, food 15%, petroleum products,
    consumer goods, chemicals
  partners:
    Australia 30%, NZ 17%, Japan 13%, EC 6%, US 6%
External debt:
    $428 million (December 1990 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 8.4% (1991 est.); accounts for 13% of GDP
Electricity:
    215,000 kW capacity; 330 million kWh produced, 430 kWh per capita (1990)
Industries:
    sugar, tourism, copra, gold, silver, fishing, clothing, lumber, small
    cottage industries
Agriculture:
    accounts for 23% of GDP; principal cash crop is sugarcane; coconuts,
    cassava, rice, sweet potatoes, and bananas; small livestock sector includes
    cattle, pigs, horses, and goats
Economic aid:
    Western (non-US) countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1980-89),
    $815 million
Currency:
    Fijian dollar (plural - dollars); 1 Fijian dollar (F$) = 100 cents
Exchange rates:
    Fijian dollars (F$) per US$1 - 1.4855 (January 1992), 1.4756 (1991), 1.4809
    (1990), 1.4833 (1989), 1.4303 (1988), 1.2439 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Fiji Communications

Railroads:
    644 km 0.610-meter narrow gauge, belonging to the government-owned Fiji
    Sugar Corporation
Highways:
    3,300 km total (1984) - 1,590 km paved; 1,290 km gravel, crushed stone, or
    stabilized soil surface; 420 unimproved earth
Inland waterways:
    203 km; 122 km navigable by motorized craft and 200-metric-ton barges
Ports:
    Lambasa, Lautoka, Savusavu, Suva
Merchant marine:
    7 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 40,072 GRT/47,187 DWT; includes 2
    roll-on/roll-off, 2 container, 1 petroleum tanker, 1 chemical tanker, 1
    cargo
Civil air:
    1 DC-3 and 1 light aircraft
Airports:
    25 total, 22 usable; 2 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 1 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 2 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    modern local, interisland, and international (wire/radio integrated) public
    and special-purpose telephone, telegraph, and teleprinter facilities;
    regional radio center; important COMPAC cable link between US-Canada and New
    Zealand-Australia; 53,228 telephones; broadcast stations - 7 AM, 1 FM, no
    TV; 1 Pacific Ocean INTELSAT earth station

:Fiji Defense Forces

Branches:
    Fiji Military Force (FMF; including a naval division, Police)
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 192,056; 105,898 fit for military service; 7,564 reach military
    age (18) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $22.4 million, 1.7% of GDP (FY 91)

:Finland Geography

Total area:
    337,030 km2
Land area:
    305,470 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than Montana
Land boundaries:
    2,628 km; Norway 729 km, Sweden 586 km, Russia 1,313 km
Coastline:
    1,126 km; excludes islands and coastal indentations
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    6 nm
  Continental shelf:
    200 m (depth) or to depth of exploitation
  Exclusive fishing zone:
    12 nm
  Territorial sea:
    4 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    cold temperate; potentially subarctic, but comparatively mild because of
    moderating influence of the North Atlantic Current, Baltic Sea, and more
    than 60,000 lakes
Terrain:
    mostly low, flat to rolling plains interspersed with lakes and low hills
Natural resources:
    timber, copper, zinc, iron ore, silver
Land use:
    arable land 8%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures NEGL%; forest and
    woodland 76%; other 16%; includes irrigated NEGL%
Environment:
    permanently wet ground covers about 30% of land; population concentrated on
    small southwestern coastal plain
Note:
    long boundary with Russia; Helsinki is northernmost national capital on
    European continent

:Finland People

Population:
    5,004,273 (July 1992), growth rate 0.3% (1992)
Birth rate:
    12 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    10 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    NEGL migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    6 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    72 years male, 80 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    1.7 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Finn(s); adjective - Finnish
Ethnic divisions:
    Finn, Swede, Lapp, Gypsy, Tatar
Religions:
    Evangelical Lutheran 89%, Greek Orthodox 1%, none 9%, other 1%
Languages:
    Finnish 93.5%, Swedish (both official) 6.3%; small Lapp- and
    Russian-speaking minorities
Literacy:
    100% (male NA%, female NA%) age 15 and over can read and write (1980 est.)
Labor force:
    2,533,000; public services 30.4%; industry 20.9%; commerce 15.0%; finance,
    insurance, and business services 10.2%; agriculture and forestry 8.6%;
    transport and communications 7.7%; construction 7.2%
Organized labor:
    80% of labor force

:Finland Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Finland
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Helsinki
Administrative divisions:
    12 provinces (laanit, singular - laani); Ahvenanmaa, Hame, Keski-Suomi,
    Kuopio, Kymi, Lappi, Mikkeli, Oulu, Pohjois-Karjala, Turku ja Pori, Uusimaa,
    Vaasa
Independence:
    6 December 1917 (from Soviet Union)
Constitution:
    17 July 1919
Legal system:
    civil law system based on Swedish law; Supreme Court may request legislation
    interpreting or modifying laws; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with
    reservations
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 6 December (1917)
Executive branch:
    president, prime minister, deputy prime minister, Council of State
    (Valtioneuvosto)
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Parliament (Eduskunta)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court (Korkein Oikeus)
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Mauno KOIVISTO (since 27 January 1982)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Esko AHO (since 26 April 1991); Deputy Prime Minister Ilkka
    KANERVA (since 26 April 1991)
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  Parliament:
    last held 17 March 1991 (next to be held March 1995); results - Center Party
    24.8%, Social Democratic Party 22.1%, National Coalition (Conservative)
    Party 19.3%, Leftist Alliance (Communist) 10.1%, Green League 6.8%, Swedish
    People's Party 5.5%, Rural 4.8%, Finnish Christian League 3.1%, Liberal
    People's Party 0.8%; seats - (200 total) Center Party 55, Social Democratic
    Party 48, National Coalition (Conservative) Party 40, Leftist Alliance
    (Communist) 19, Swedish People's Party 12, Green League 10, Finnish
    Christian League 8, Rural 7, Liberal People's Party 1
  President:
    last held 31 January - 1 February and 15 February 1988 (next to be held
    January 1994); results - Mauno KOIVISTO 48%, Paavo VAYRYNEN 20%, Harri
    HOLKERI 18%
Communists:
    28,000 registered members; an additional 45,000 persons belong to People's
    Democratic League
Other political or pressure groups:
    Finnish Communist Party-Unity, Yrjo HAKANEN; Constitutional Rightist Party;
    Finnish Pensioners Party; Communist Workers Party, Timo LAHDENMAKI

:Finland Government

Member of:
    AfDB, AG (observer), AsDB, Australia Group, BIS, CCC, CE, CERN, CSCE, EBRD,
    ECE, EFTA, ESA (associate), FAO, G-9, GATT, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC,
    ICFTU, IDA, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INMARSAT, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, IOM
    (observer), ISO, ITU, LORCS, MTCR, NAM (guest), NC, NEA, NIB, NSG, OAS
    (observer), OECD, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNDOF, UNESCO, UNFICYP, UNHCR, UNIDO,
    UNIFIL, UNIIMOG, UNMOGIP, UNTSO, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Jukka VALTASAARI; Chancery at 3216 New Mexico Avenue NW,
    Washington, DC 20016; telephone (202) 363-2430; there are Finnish Consulates
    General in Los Angeles and New York, and Consulates in Chicago and Houston
  US:
    Ambassador John H. KELLY (as of December 1991); Embassy at Itainen Puistotie
    14A, SF-00140, Helsinki (mailing address is APO AE 09723); telephone [358]
    (0) 171931; FAX [358] (0) 174681
Flag:
    white with a blue cross that extends to the edges of the flag; the vertical
    part of the cross is shifted to the hoist side in the style of the DANNEBROG
    (Danish flag)

:Finland Economy

Overview:
    Finland has a highly industrialized, largely free market economy, with per
    capita output nearly three-fourths the US figure. Its main economic force is
    the manufacturing sector - principally the wood, metals, and engineering
    industries. Trade is important, with the export of goods representing about
    30% of GDP. Except for timber and several minerals, Finland depends on
    imported raw materials, energy, and some components of manufactured goods.
    Because of the climate, agricultural development is limited to maintaining
    self-sufficiency in basic commodities. The economy, which experienced an
    average of 4.9% annual growth between 1987 and 1989, sank into a deep
    recession in 1991 as growth contracted by 6.2%. The recession - which is
    expected to bottom out in late 1992 - has been caused by economic
    overheating, depressed foreign markets, and the dismantling of the barter
    system between Finland and the former Soviet Union in which Soviet oil and
    gas had been exchanged for Finnish manufactured goods. The Finnish
    Government has proposed efforts to increase industrial competitiveness and
    efficiency by an increase in exports to Western markets, cuts in public
    expenditures, partial privatization of state enterprises, and foreign
    investment and exchange liberalization. Helsinki tied the markkaa to the
    EC's European Currency Unit to promote stability but was forced to devalue
    the markkaa by about 12% in November 1991. The devaluation should improve
    industrial competitiveness and business confidence in 1992. Finland, as a
    member of EFTA, negotiated a European Economic Area arrangement with the EC
    that allows for free movement of capital, goods, services, and labor within
    the organization as of January 1993. Finland applied for full EC membership
    in March 1992.
GDP:
    purchasing power equivalent - $80.6 billion, per capita $16,200; real growth
    rate - 6.2% (1991)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    2.9% (1991)
Unemployment rate:
    7.6% (1991)
Budget:
    revenues $35.8 billion; expenditures $41.5 billion, including capital
    expenditures of NA billion (1991)
Exports:
    $22.9 billion (f.o.b., 1991)
  commodities:
    timber, paper and pulp, ships, machinery, clothing and footwear
  partners:
    EC 50.25%, Germany 15.5%, UK 10.4%, EFTA 20.7%, Sweden 14%, US 6.1%, Japan
    1.5%, USSR/EE 6.71% (1991)
Imports:
    $21.6 billion (c.i.f., 1991)
  commodities:
    foodstuffs, petroleum and petroleum products, chemicals, transport
    equipment, iron and steel, machinery, textile yarn and fabrics, fodder
    grains
  partners:
    EC 45.9% (Germany 16.9%), UK 7.7%, EFTA 19.9%, Sweden 12.3%, US 6.9%, Japan
    6%, USSR/EE 10.7%
External debt:
    $5.3 billion (1989)
Industrial production:
    growth rate - 8.6% (1991 est.)
Electricity:
    13,324,000 kW capacity; 49,330 million kWh produced, 9,857 kWh per capita
    (1991)

:Finland Economy

Industries:
    metal products, shipbuilding, forestry and wood processing (pulp, paper),
    copper refining, foodstuffs, chemicals, textiles, clothing
Agriculture:
    accounts for 8% of GDP (including forestry); livestock production,
    especially dairy cattle, predominates; forestry is an important export
    earner and a secondary occupation for the rural population; main crops -
    cereals, sugar beets, potatoes; 85% self-sufficient, but short of foodgrains
    and fodder grains; annual fish catch about 160,000 metric tons
Economic aid:
    donor - ODA and OOF commitments (1970-89), $2.7 billion
Currency:
    markka (plural - markkaa); 1 markka (FMk) or Finmark = 100 pennia
Exchange rates:
    markkaa (FMk) per US$1 - 4.2967 (January 1992), 4.0440 (1991), 3.8235
    (1990), 4.2912 (1989), 4.1828 (1988), 4.3956 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Finland Communications

Railroads:
    5,924 km total; Finnish State Railways (VR) operate a total of 5,863 km
    1.524-meter gauge, of which 480 km are multiple track and 1,445 km are
    electrified
Highways:
    about 103,000 km total, including 35,000 km paved (bituminous, concrete,
    bituminous-treated surface) and 38,000 km unpaved (stabilized gravel,
    gravel, earth); additional 30,000 km of private (state-subsidized) roads
Inland waterways:
    6,675 km total (including Saimaa Canal); 3,700 km suitable for steamers
Pipelines:
    natural gas 580 km
Ports:
    Helsinki, Oulu, Pori, Rauma, Turku; 6 secondary, numerous minor ports
Merchant marine:
    80 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 794,094 GRT/732,585 DWT; includes 1
    passenger, 9 short-sea passenger, 16 cargo, 1 refrigerated cargo, 26
    roll-on/roll-off, 12 petroleum tanker, 6 chemical tanker, 2 liquefied gas, 7
    bulk
Civil air:
    42 major transport
Airports:
    159 total, 156 usable; 58 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 23 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 22 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    good service from cable and radio relay network; 3,140,000 telephones;
    broadcast stations - 6 AM, 105 FM, 235 TV; 1 submarine cable; INTELSAT
    satellite transmission service via Swedish earth station and a receive-only
    INTELSAT earth station near Helsinki

:Finland Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Navy, Air Force, Frontier Guard (including Coast Guard)
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 1,314,305; 1,087,286 fit for military service; 33,053 reach
    military age (17) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $1.8 billion, 1.6% of GDP (1989 est.)

:France Geography

Total area:
    547,030 km2
Land area:
    545,630 km2; includes Corsica and the rest of metropolitan France, but
    excludes the overseas administrative divisions
Comparative area:
    slightly more than twice the size of Colorado
Land boundaries:
    2,892.4 km; Andorra 60 km, Belgium 620 km, Germany 451 km, Italy 488 km,
    Luxembourg 73 km, Monaco 4.4 km, Spain 623 km, Switzerland 573 km
Coastline:
    3,427 km; mainland 2,783 km, Corsica 644 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    12-24 nm
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    Madagascar claims Bassas da India, Europa Island, Glorioso Islands, Juan de
    Nova Island, and Tromelin Island; Comoros claims Mayotte; Mauritius claims
    Tromelin Island; Seychelles claims Tromelin Island; Suriname claims part of
    French Guiana; Mexico claims Clipperton Island; territorial claim in
    Antarctica (Adelie Land)
Climate:
    generally cool winters and mild summers, but mild winters and hot summers
    along the Mediterranean
Terrain:
    mostly flat plains or gently rolling hills in north and west; remainder is
    mountainous, especially Pyrenees in south, Alps in east
Natural resources:
    coal, iron ore, bauxite, fish, timber, zinc, potash
Land use:
    arable land 32%; permanent crops 2%; meadows and pastures 23%; forest and
    woodland 27%; other 16%; includes irrigated 2%
Environment:
    most of large urban areas and industrial centers in Rhone, Garonne, Seine,
    or Loire River basins; occasional warm tropical wind known as mistral
Note:
    largest West European nation

:France People

Population:
    57,287,258 (July 1992), growth rate 0.5% (1992)
Birth rate:
    13 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    9 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    1 migrant/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    7 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    74 years male, 82 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    1.8 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Frenchman(men), Frenchwoman(women); adjective - French
Ethnic divisions:
    Celtic and Latin with Teutonic, Slavic, North African, Indochinese, and
    Basque minorities
Religions:
    Roman Catholic 90%, Protestant 2%, Jewish 1%, Muslim (North African workers)
    1%, unaffiliated 6%
Languages:
    French (100% of population); rapidly declining regional dialects (Provencal,
    Breton, Alsatian, Corsican, Catalan, Basque, Flemish)
Literacy:
    99% (male NA%, female NA%) age 15 and over can read and write (1980 est.)
Labor force:
    24,170,000; services 61.5%, industry 31.3%, agriculture 7.3% (1987)
Organized labor:
    20% of labor force (est.)

:France Government

Long-form name:
    French Republic
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Paris
Administrative divisions:
    metropolitan France - 22 regions (regions, singular - region); Alsace,
    Aquitaine, Auvergne, Basse-Normandie, Bourgogne, Bretagne, Centre,
    Champagne-Ardenne, Corse, Franche-Comte, Haute-Normandie, Ile-de-France,
    Languedoc-Roussillon, Limousin, Lorraine, Midi-Pyrenees, Nord-Pas-de-Calais,
    Pays de la Loire, Picardie, Poitou-Charentes, Provence-Alpes-Cote d'Azur,
    Rhone-Alpes; note - the 22 regions are subdivided into 96 departments; see
    separate entries for the overseas departments (French Guiana, Guadeloupe,
    Martinique, Reunion) and the territorial collectivities (Mayotte, Saint
    Pierre and Miquelon)
Independence:
    unified by Clovis in 486, First Republic proclaimed in 1792
Constitution:
    28 September 1958, amended concerning election of president in 1962
Dependent areas:
    Bassas da India, Clipperton Island, Europa Island, French Polynesia, French
    Southern and Antarctic Lands, Glorioso Islands, Juan de Nova Island, New
    Caledonia, Tromelin Island, Wallis and Futuna
  note:
    the US does not recognize claims to Antarctica
Legal system:
    civil law system with indigenous concepts; review of administrative but not
    legislative acts
National holiday:
    Taking of the Bastille, 14 July (1789)
Executive branch:
    president, prime minister, Council of Ministers (cabinet)
Legislative branch:
    bicameral Parliament (Parlement) consists of an upper house or Senate
    (Senat) and a lower house or National Assembly (Assemblee Nationale)
Judicial branch:
    Constitutional Court (Cour Constitutionnelle)
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Francois MITTERRAND (since 21 May 1981)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Pierre BEREGOVOY (since 2 April 1992)
Political parties and leaders:
    Rally for the Republic (RPR, formerly UDR), Jacques CHIRAC; Union for French
    Democracy (UDF, federation of PR, CDS, and RAD), Valery Giscard d'ESTAING;
    Republican Party (PR), Gerard LONGUET; Center for Social Democrats (CDS),
    Pierre MEHAIGNERIE; Radical (RAD), Yves GALLAND; Socialist Party (PS),
    Laurent FABIUS; Left Radical Movement (MRG), Emile ZUCCARELLI; Communist
    Party (PCF), Georges MARCHAIS; National Front (FN), Jean-Marie LE PEN
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  National Assembly:
    last held 5 and 12 June 1988 (next to be held June 1993); results - Second
    Ballot PS-MRG 48. 7%, RPR 23.1%, UDF 21%, PCF 3.4%, other 3.8%; seats - (577
    total) PS 272, RPR 127, UDF 91, UDC 40, PCF 26, independents 21

:France Government

  President:
    last held 8 May 1988 (next to be held May 1995); results - Second Ballot
    Francois MITTERRAND 54%, Jacques CHIRAC 46%
Elections:
  Senate:
    last held 24 September 1989 (next to be held September 1992); results -
    percent of vote by party NA; seats - (321 total; 296 metropolitan France, 13
    for overseas departments and territories, and 12 for French nationals
    abroad) RPR 91, UDF 143 (PR 52, CDS 68, RAD 23), PS 66, PCF 16, independents
    2, unknown 3
Communists:
    700,000 claimed but probably closer to 150,000; Communist voters, 2.8
    million in 1988 election
Other political or pressure groups:
    Communist-controlled labor union (Confederation Generale du Travail) nearly
    2.4 million members (claimed); Socialist-leaning labor union (Confederation
    Francaise Democratique du Travail or CFDT) about 800,000 members est.;
    independent labor union (Force Ouvriere) 1 million members (est.);
    independent white-collar union (Confederation Generale des Cadres) 340,000
    members (claimed); National Council of French Employers (Conseil National du
    Patronat Francais - CNPF or Patronat)
Member of:
    ACCT, AfDB, AG (observer), AsDB, Australia Group, BDEAC, BIS, CCC, CDB, CE,
    CERN, COCOM, CSCE, EBRD, EC, ECE, ECLAC, EIB, ESA, ESCAP, FAO, FZ, GATT,
    G-5, G-7, G-10, IABD, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, IDA, IFAD, IFC, ILO,
    IMF, IMO, INMARSAT, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, IOM (observer), ISO, ITU,
    LORCS, MTCR, NACC, NATO, NEA, NSG, OAS (observer), OECD, PCA, SPC, UN,
    UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIFIL, UNRWA, UN Security Council, UN
    Trusteeship Council, UNTSO, UPU, WCL, WEU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Jacques ANDREANI; Chancery at 4101 Reservoir Road NW, Washington,
    DC 20007; telephone (202) 944-6000; there are French Consulates General in
    Boston, Chicago, Detroit, Houston, Los Angeles, New Orleans, Miami, New
    York, San Francisco, and San Juan (Puerto Rico)
  US:
    Ambassador Walter J. P. CURLEY; Embassy at 2 Avenue Gabriel, 75382 Paris
    Cedex 08, Unit 21551 (mailing address is APO AE 09777); telephone [33] (1)
    42-96-12-02 or 42-61-80-75; FAX [33] (1) 42-66-97-83; there are US
    Consulates General in Bordeaux, Marseille, and Strasbourg
Flag:
    three equal vertical bands of blue (hoist side), white, and red; known as
    the French Tricouleur (Tricolor); the design and colors have been the basis
    for a number of other flags, including those of Belgium, Chad, Ireland,
    Ivory Coast, and Luxembourg; the official flag for all French dependent
    areas

:France Economy

Overview:
    One of the world's most developed economies, France has substantial
    agricultural resources and a highly diversified modern industrial sector.
    Large tracts of fertile land, the application of modern technology, and
    subsidies have combined to make it the leading agricultural producer in
    Western Europe. France is largely self-sufficient in agricultural products
    and is a major exporter of wheat and dairy products. The industrial sector
    generates about one-quarter of GDP, and the growing services sector has
    become crucial to the economy. After expanding at a rapid 3.8% pace during
    the period 1988-89, the economy slowed down in 1990, with growth of 1.5% in
    1990 and 1.4% in 1991; growth in 1992 is expected to be about 2%. The
    economy has had difficulty generating enough jobs for new entrants into the
    labor force, resulting in a high unemployment rate, which rose to almost 10%
    in 1991. The steadily advancing economic integration within the European
    Community is a major force affecting the fortunes of the various economic
    sectors.
GDP:
    purchasing power equivalent - $1,033.7 billion, per capita $18,300; real
    growth rate 1.4% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    3.3% (1991 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    9.8% (end 1991)
Budget:
    revenues $229.8 billion; expenditures $246.4 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $36 billion (1992 budget)
Exports:
    $209.5 billion (f.o.b., 1990)
  commodities:
    machinery and transportation equipment, chemicals, foodstuffs, agricultural
    products, iron and steel products, textiles and clothing
  partners:
    FRG 17.3%, Italy 11.4%, UK 9.2%, Spain 10.3%, Netherlands 9.0%,
    Belgium-Luxembourg 9.4%, US 6.1%, Japan 1.9%, former USSR 0.7% (1989 est.)
Imports:
    $232.5 billion (c.i.f., 1990)
  commodities:
    crude oil, machinery and equipment, agricultural products, chemicals, iron
    and steel products
  partners:
    FRG 18.9%, Italy 11.6%, Belgium-Luxembourg 8.8%, Netherlands 8.6%, US 8.0%,
    Spain 7.9%, UK 7.2%, Japan 4.0%, former USSR 1.4% (1989 est.)
External debt:
    $59.3 billion (December 1987)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 1.2% (1990); accounts for 26% of GDP
Electricity:
    109,972,000 kW capacity; 399,318 million kWh produced, 7,200 kWh per capita
    (1991)
Industries:
    steel, machinery, chemicals, automobiles, metallurgy, aircraft, electronics,
    mining, textiles, food processing, and tourism
Agriculture:
    accounts for 4% of GDP (including fishing and forestry); one of the world's
    top five wheat producers; other principal products - beef, dairy products,
    cereals, sugar beets, potatoes, wine grapes; self-sufficient for most
    temperate-zone foods; shortages include fats and oils and tropical produce,
    but overall net exporter of farm products; fish catch of 850,000 metric tons
    ranks among world's top 20 countries and is all used domestically

:France Economy

Economic aid:
    donor - ODA and OOF commitments (1970-89), $75.1 billion
Currency:
    French franc (plural - francs); 1 French franc (F) = 100 centimes
Exchange rates:
    French francs (F) per US$1 - 5.3801 (January 1992), 5.6421 (1991), 5.4453
    (1990), 6.3801 (1989), 5.9569 (1988), 6.0107 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:France Communications

Railroads:
    French National Railways (SNCF) operates 34,568 km 1.435-meter standard
    gauge; 11,674 km electrified, 15,132 km double or multiple track; 2,138 km
    of various gauges (1.000-meter to 1.440-meter), privately owned and operated
Highways:
    1,551,400 km total; 33,400 km national highway; 347,000 km departmental
    highway; 421,000 km community roads; 750,000 km rural roads; 5,401 km of
    controlled-access divided autoroutes; about 803,000 km paved
Inland waterways:
    14,932 km; 6,969 km heavily traveled
Pipelines:
    crude oil 3,059 km; petroleum products 4,487 km; natural gas 24,746 km
Ports:
    maritime - Bordeaux, Boulogne, Brest, Cherbourg, Dunkerque, Fos-Sur-Mer, Le
    Havre, Marseille, Nantes, Rouen, Sete, Toulon; inland - 42
Merchant marine:
    128 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 3,222,539 GRT/5,117,091 DWT; includes
    6 short-sea passenger, 11 cargo, 18 container, 1 multifunction large-load
    carrier, 30 roll-on/roll-off, 34 petroleum tanker, 8 chemical tanker, 6
    liquefied gas, 2 specialized tanker, 11 bulk, 1 refrigerated cargo; note -
    France also maintains a captive register for French-owned ships in the
    Kerguelen Islands (French Southern and Antarctic Lands) and French Polynesia
Civil air:
    195 major transport aircraft (1989 est.)
Airports:
    472 total, 460 usable; 251 with permanent-surface runways; 3 with runways
    over 3,659 m; 36 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 136 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    highly developed; extensive cable and radio relay networks; large-scale
    introduction of optical-fiber systems; satellite systems for domestic
    traffic; 39,200,000 telephones; broadcast stations - 41 AM, 800 (mostly
    repeaters) FM, 846 (mostly repeaters) TV; 24 submarine coaxial cables; 2
    INTELSAT earth stations (with total of 5 antennas - 2 for the Indian Ocean
    INTELSAT and 3 for the Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT); HF radio communications
    with more than 20 countries; INMARSAT service; EUTELSAT TV service

:France Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Navy (including Naval Air), Air Force, National Gendarmerie
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 14,599,636; 12,225,969 fit for military service; 411,211 reach
    military age (18) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $33.1 billion, 3.4% of GDP (1991)

:French Guiana Geography

Total area:
    91,000 km2
Land area:
    89,150 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than Indiana
Land boundaries:
    1,183 km; Brazil 673 km, Suriname 510 km
Coastline:
    378 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    Suriname claims area between Riviere Litani and Riviere Marouini (both
    headwaters of the Lawa)
Climate:
    tropical; hot, humid; little seasonal temperature variation
Terrain:
    low-lying coastal plains rising to hills and small mountains
Natural resources:
    bauxite, timber, gold (widely scattered), cinnabar, kaolin, fish
Land use:
    arable land NEGL%; permanent crops NEGL%; meadows and pastures NEGL%; forest
    and woodland 82%; other 18%
Environment:
    mostly an unsettled wilderness

:French Guiana People

Population:
    127,505 (July 1992), growth rate 4.6% (1992)
Birth rate:
    27 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    5 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    24 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    17 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    71 years male, 78 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    3.6 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - French Guianese (singular and plural); adjective - French Guianese;
    note - they are a colony/department; they hold French passports
Ethnic divisions:
    black or mulatto 66%; Caucasian 12%; East Indian, Chinese, Amerindian 12%;
    other 10%
Religions:
    predominantly Roman Catholic
Languages:
    French
Literacy:
    82% (male 81%, female 83%) age 15 and over can read and write (1982)
Labor force:
    23,265; services, government, and commerce 60.6%, industry 21.2%,
    agriculture 18.2% (1980)
Organized labor:
    7% of labor force

:French Guiana Government

Long-form name:
    Department of Guiana
Type:
    overseas department of France
Capital:
    Cayenne
Administrative divisions:
    none (overseas department of France)
Independence:
    none (overseas department of France)
Constitution:
    28 September 1958 (French Constitution)
Legal system:
    French legal system
National holiday:
    Taking of the Bastille, 14 July (1789)
Executive branch:
    French president, commissioner of the republic
Legislative branch:
    unicameral General Council and a unicameral Regional Council
Judicial branch:
    highest local court is the Court of Appeals based in Martinique with
    jurisdiction over Martinique, Guadeloupe, and French Guiana
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Francois MITTERRAND (since 21 May 1981)
  Head of Government:
    Commissioner of the Republic Jean-Francois DICHIARA (since NA 1990)
Political parties and leaders:
    Guianese Socialist Party (PSG), Gerard HOLDER; Rally for the Republic (RPR),
    Paulin BRUNE; Guianese Democratic Action (ADG), Andre LECANTE; Union for
    French Democracy (UDF), Claude Ho A CHUCK; National Front (FN), Guy MALON;
    Popular and National Party of Guiana (PNPG), Claude ROBO; National
    Anti-Colonist Guianese Party (PANGA), Michel KAPEL
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  French National Assembly:
    last held 24 September 1989 (next to be held September 1992); results -
    percent of vote by party NA; seats - (2 total) PSG 1, RPR 1
  French Senate:
    last held 24 September 1989 (next to be held September 1992); results -
    percent of vote by party NA; seats - (1 total) PSG 1
  Regional Council:
    last held 16 March 1986 (next to be held NA 1991); results - PSG 43%, RPR
    27.7%, ADG 12.2%, UDF 8. 9%, FN 3.7%, PNPG 1.4%, other 3.1%; seats - (31
    total) PSG 15, RPR 9, ADG 4, UDF 3
Member of:
    FZ, WCL, WFTU
Diplomatic representation:
    as an overseas department of France, the interests of French Guiana are
    represented in the US by France
Flag:
    the flag of France is used

:French Guiana Economy

Overview:
    The economy is tied closely to that of France through subsidies and imports.
    Besides the French space center at Kourou, fishing and forestry are the most
    important economic activities, with exports of fish and fish products
    (mostly shrimp) accounting for more than 60% of total revenue in 1987. The
    large reserves of tropical hardwoods, not fully exploited, support an
    expanding sawmill industry that provides sawn logs for export. Cultivation
    of crops - rice, cassava, bananas, and sugarcane - are limited to the
    coastal area, where the population is largely concentrated. French Guiana is
    heavily dependent on imports of food and energy. Unemployment is a serious
    problem, particularly among younger workers.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $186 million, per capita $2,240; real growth rate
    NA% (1985)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    4.1% (1987)
Unemployment rate:
    15% (1987)
Budget:
    revenues $735 million; expenditures $735 million, including capital
    expenditures of NA (1987)
Exports:
    $54.0 million (f.o.b., 1987)
  commodities:
    shrimp, timber, rum, rosewood essence
  partners:
    France 31%, US 22%, Japan 10% (1987)
Imports:
    $394.0 million (c.i.f., 1987)
  commodities:
    food (grains, processed meat), other consumer goods, producer goods,
    petroleum
  partners:
    France 62%, Trinidad and Tobago 9%, US 4%, FRG 3% (1987)
External debt:
    $1.2 billion (1988)
Industrial production:
    growth rate NA%
Electricity:
    92,000 kW capacity; 185 million kWh produced, 1,821 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    construction, shrimp processing, forestry products, rum, gold mining
Agriculture:
    some vegetables for local consumption; rice, corn, manioc, cocoa, bananas,
    sugar; livestock - cattle, pigs, poultry
Economic aid:
    Western (non-US) countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89),
    $1.51 billion
Currency:
    French franc (plural - francs); 1 French franc (F) = 100 centimes
Exchange rates:
    French francs (F) per US$1 - 5.3801 (January 1992), 5.6421 (1991), 5.4453
    (1990), 6.3801 (1989), 5.9569 (1988), 6.0107 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:French Guiana Communications

Highways:
    680 km total; 510 km paved, 170 km improved and unimproved earth
Inland waterways:
    460 km, navigable by small oceangoing vessels and river and coastal
    steamers; 3,300 km navigable by native craft
Ports:
    Cayenne
Civil air:
    no major transport aircraft
Airports:
    10 total, 10 usable; 4 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 1 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 1 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    fair open-wire and radio relay system; 18,100 telephones; broadcast stations
    - 5 AM, 7 FM, 9 TV; 1 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT earth station

:French Guiana Defense Forces

Branches:
    French Forces, Gendarmerie
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49 37,467; 24,534 fit for military service
Note:
    defense is the responsibility of France

:French Polynesia Geography

Total area:
    3,941 km2
Land area:
    3,660 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly less than one-third the size of Connecticut
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    2,525 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    tropical, but moderate
Terrain:
    mixture of rugged high islands and low islands with reefs
Natural resources:
    timber, fish, cobalt
Land use:
    arable land 1%; permanent crops 19%; meadows and pastures 5%; forest and
    woodland 31%; other 44%
Environment:
    occasional cyclonic storm in January; includes five archipelagoes
Note:
    Makatea in French Polynesia is one of the three great phosphate rock islands
    in the Pacific Ocean - the others are Banaba (Ocean Island) in Kiribati and
    Nauru

:French Polynesia People

Population:
    205,620 (July 1992), growth rate 2.3% (1992)
Birth rate:
    28 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    5 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    15 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    68 years male, 73 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    3.3 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - French Polynesian(s); adjective - French Polynesian
Ethnic divisions:
    Polynesian 78%, Chinese 12%, local French 6%, metropolitan French 4%
Religions:
    mainly Christian; Protestant 54%, Roman Catholic 30%, other 16%
Languages:
    French and Tahitian (both official)
Literacy:
    98% (male 98%, female 98%) age 14 and over but definition of literacy not
    available (1977)
Labor force:
    76,630 employed (1988)
Organized labor:
    NA

:French Polynesia Government

Long-form name:
    Territory of French Polynesia
Type:
    overseas territory of France since 1946
Capital:
    Papeete
Administrative divisions:
    none (overseas territory of France); there are no first-order administrative
    divisions as defined by the US Government, but there are 5 archipelagic
    divisions named Archipel des Marquises, Archipel des Tuamotu, Archipel des
    Tubuai, Iles du Vent, and Iles Sous-le-Vent; note - Clipperton Island is
    administered by France from French Polynesia
Independence:
    none (overseas territory of France)
Constitution:
    28 September 1958 (French Constitution)
Legal system:
    based on French system
National holiday:
    Taking of the Bastille, 14 July (1789)
Executive branch:
    French president, high commissioner of the republic, president of the
    Council of Ministers, vice president of the Council of Ministers, Council of
    Ministers
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Territorial Assembly
Judicial branch:
    Court of Appeal
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Francois MITTERRAND (since 21 May 1981); High Commissioner of the
    Republic Jean MONTPEZAT (since November 1987)
  Head of Government:
    President of the Council of Ministers Gaston FLOSSE (since 10 May 1991);
    Vice President of the Council of Ministers Joel BUILLARD (since 12 September
    1991)
Political parties and leaders:
    People's Rally (Tahoeraa Huiraatira; Gaullist), Gaston FLOSSE; Polynesian
    Union Party (Te Tiarama; centrist), Alexandre LEONTIEFF; New Fatherland
    Party (Ai'a Api), Emile VERNAUDON; Polynesian Liberation Front (Tavini
    Huiraatira), Oscar TEMARU; other small parties
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
    National Assembly last held 5 and 12 June 1988 (next to be held June 1993);
    results - percent of vote by party NA; seats - (2 total) People's Rally
    (Gaullist) 1, New Fatherland Party 1
  French Senate:
    last held 24 September 1989 (next to be held September 1992); results -
    percent of vote by party NA; seats - (1 total) party NA
  Territorial Assembly:
    last held 17 March 1991 (next to be held March 1996); results - percent of
    vote by party NA; seats - (41 total) People's Rally (Gaullist) 18,
    Polynesian Union Party 14, New Fatherland Party 5, other 4
Member of:
    FZ, ICFTU, SPC, WMO
Diplomatic representation:
    as an overseas territory of France, French Polynesian interests are
    represented in the US by France

:French Polynesia Government

Flag:
    the flag of France is used

:French Polynesia Economy

Overview:
    Since 1962, when France stationed military personnel in the region, French
    Polynesia has changed from a subsistence economy to one in which a high
    proportion of the work force is either employed by the military or supports
    the tourist industry. Tourism accounts for about 20% of GDP and is a primary
    source of hard currency earnings.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $1.2 billion, per capita $6,000; real growth rate
    NA% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    2.9% (1989)
Unemployment rate:
    14.9% (1988 est.)
Budget:
    revenues $614 million; expenditures $957 million, including capital
    expenditures of $NA (1988)
Exports:
    $88.9 million (f.o.b., 1989)
  commodities:
    coconut products 79%, mother-of-pearl 14%, vanilla, shark meat
  partners:
    France 54%, US 17%, Japan 17%
Imports:
    $765 million (c.i.f., 1989)
  commodities:
    fuels, foodstuffs, equipment
  partners:
    France 53%, US 11%, Australia 6%, NZ 5%
External debt:
    $NA
Industrial production:
    growth rate NA%
Electricity:
    72,000 kW capacity; 265 million kWh produced, 1,390 kWh per capita (1990)
Industries:
    tourism, pearls, agricultural processing, handicrafts
Agriculture:
    coconut and vanilla plantations; vegetables and fruit; poultry, beef, dairy
    products
Economic aid:
    Western (non-US) countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-88),
    $3.95 billion
Currency:
    Comptoirs Francais du Pacifique franc (plural - francs); 1 CFP franc (CFPF)
    = 100 centimes
Exchange rates:
    Comptoirs Francais du Pacifique francs (CFPF) per US$1 - 97.81 (January
    1992), 102.57 (1991), 99.00 (1990), 115.99 (1989), 108.30 (1988), 109.27
    (1987); note - linked at the rate of 18.18 to the French franc
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:French Polynesia Communications

Highways:
    600 km (1982)
Ports:
    Papeete, Bora-bora
Merchant marine:
    3 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 4,128 GRT/6,710 DWT; includes 2
    passenger-cargo, 1 refrigerated cargo; note - a captive subset of the French
    register
Civil air:
    about 6 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    43 total, 41 usable; 23 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 2 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 12 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    33,200 telephones; 84,000 radio receivers; 26,400 TV sets; broadcast
    stations - 5 AM, 2 FM, 6 TV; 1 Pacific Ocean INTELSAT earth station

:French Polynesia Defense Forces

Branches:
    French forces (including Army, Navy, Air Force), Gendarmerie
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 50,844; NA fit for military service
Note:
    defense is responsibility of France

:French Southern and Antarctic Lands Geography

Total area:
    7,781 km2
Land area:
    7,781 km2; includes Ile Amsterdam, Ile Saint-Paul, Iles Kerguelen, and Iles
    Crozet; excludes Terre Adelie claim of about 500,000 km2 in Antarctica that
    is not recognized by the US
Comparative area:
    slightly less than 1.5 times the size of Delaware
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    1,232 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm (Iles Kerguelen only)
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    Terre Adelie claim in Antarctica is not recognized by the US
Climate:
    antarctic
Terrain:
    volcanic
Natural resources:
    fish, crayfish
Land use:
    arable land 0%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 0%; forest and
    woodland 0%; other 100%
Environment:
    Ile Amsterdam and Ile Saint-Paul are extinct volcanoes
Note:
    located in the southern Indian Ocean about equidistant between Africa,
    Antarctica, and Australia

:French Southern and Antarctic Lands People

Population:
    summer (January 1991) - 200, winter (July 1992) - 150, growth rate 0.0%
    (1992); note - mostly researchers

:French Southern and Antarctic Lands Government

Long-form name:
    Territory of the French Southern and Antarctic Lands
Type:
    overseas territory of France since 1955; governed by High Administrator
    Bernard de GOUTTES (since May 1990), who is assisted by a 7-member
    Consultative Council and a 12-member Scientific Council
Capital:
    none; administered from Paris, France
Administrative divisions:
    none (overseas territory of France); there are no first-order administrative
    divisions as defined by the US Government, but there are 3 districts named
    Ile Crozet, Iles Kerguelen, and Iles Saint-Paul et Amsterdam; excludes Terre
    Adelie claim in Antarctica that is not recognized by the US
Flag:
    the flag of France is used

:French Southern and Antarctic Lands Economy

Overview:
    Economic activity is limited to servicing meteorological and geophysical
    research stations and French and other fishing fleets. The fishing catches
    landed on Iles Kerguelen by foreign ships are exported to France and
    Reunion.
Budget:
    $33.6 million (1990)

:French Southern and Antarctic Lands Communications

Ports:
    none; offshore anchorage only
Merchant marine:
    12 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 192,752 GRT/334,400 DWT; includes 1
    cargo, 3 refrigerated cargo, 2 roll-on/roll-off cargo, 2 petroleum tanker, 1
    liquefied gas, 2 bulk, 1 multifunction large load carrier; note - a captive
    subset of the French register
Telecommunications:
    NA

:French Southern and Antarctic Lands Defense Forces

Branches:
    French Forces (including Army, Navy, Air Force)
Note:
    defense is the responsibility of France

:Gabon Geography

Total area:
    267,670 km2
Land area:
    257,670 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than Colorado
Land boundaries:
    2,551 km; Cameroon 298 km, Congo 1,903 km, Equatorial Guinea 350 km
Coastline:
    885 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    24 nm
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    maritime boundary dispute with Equatorial Guinea because of disputed
    sovereignty over islands in Corisco Bay
Climate:
    tropical; always hot, humid
Terrain:
    narrow coastal plain; hilly interior; savanna in east and south
Natural resources:
    crude oil, manganese, uranium, gold, timber, iron ore
Land use:
    arable land 1%; permanent crops 1%; meadows and pastures 18%; forest and
    woodland 78%; other 2%
Environment:
    deforestation

:Gabon People

Population:
    1,106,355 (July 1992), growth rate 1.5% (1992)
Birth rate:
    29 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    14 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    100 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    51 years male, 56 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    4.1 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Gabonese (singular and plural); adjective - Gabonese
Ethnic divisions:
    about 40 Bantu tribes, including four major tribal groupings (Fang, Eshira,
    Bapounou, Bateke); about 100,000 expatriate Africans and Europeans,
    including 27,000 French
Religions:
    Christian 55-75%, Muslim less than 1%, remainder animist
Languages:
    French (official), Fang, Myene, Bateke, Bapounou/Eschira, Bandjabi
Literacy:
    61% (male 74%, female 48%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    120,000 salaried; agriculture 65.0%, industry and commerce 30.0%, services
    2.5%, government 2.5%; 58% of population of working age (1983)
Organized labor:
    there are 38,000 members of the national trade union, the Gabonese Trade
    Union Confederation (COSYGA)

:Gabon Government

Long-form name:
    Gabonese Republic
Type:
    republic; multiparty presidential regime (opposition parties legalized 1990)
Capital:
    Libreville
Administrative divisions:
    9 provinces; Estuaire, Haut-Ogooue, Moyen-Ogooue, Ngounie, Nyanga,
    Ogooue-Ivindo, Ogooue-Lolo, Ogooue-Maritime, Woleu-Ntem
Independence:
    17 August 1960 (from France)
Constitution:
    21 February 1961, revised 15 April 1975
Legal system:
    based on French civil law system and customary law; judicial review of
    legislative acts in Constitutional Chamber of the Supreme Court; compulsory
    ICJ jurisdiction not accepted
National holiday:
    Renovation Day (Gabonese Democratic Party established), 12 March (1968)
Executive branch:
    president, prime minister, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    unicameral National Assembly (Assemblee Nationale)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court (Cour Supreme)
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President El Hadj Omar BONGO (since 2 December 1967)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Casimir OYE-MBA (since 3 May 1990)
Political parties and leaders:
    Gabonese Democratic Party (PDG, former sole party), El Hadj Omar BONGO,
    president; National Recovery Movement - Lumberjacks (Morena-Bucherons);
    Gabonese Party for Progress (PGP); National Recovery Movement
    (Morena-Original); Association for Socialism in Gabon (APSG); Gabonese
    Socialist Union (USG); Circle for Renewal and Progress (CRP); Union for
    Democracy and Development (UDD)
Suffrage:
    universal at age 21
Elections:
  National Assembly:
    last held on 28 October 1990 (next to be held by NA); results - percent of
    vote NA; seats - (120 total, 111 elected) PDG 62, National Recovery Movement
    - Lumberjacks (Morena-Bucherons) 19, PGP 18, National Recovery Movement
    (Morena-Original) 7, APSG 6, USG 4, CRP 1, independents 3
  President:
    last held on 9 November 1986 (next to be held December 1993); results -
    President Omar BONGO was reelected without opposition
Member of:
    ACCT, ACP, AfDB, BDEAC, CCC, CEEAC, ECA, FAO, FZ, G-24, G-77, GATT, IAEA,
    IBRD, ICAO, ICC, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INMARSAT, INTELSAT,
    INTERPOL, IOC, ITU, LORCS (associate), NAM, OAU, OIC, OPEC, UDEAC, UN,
    UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador-designate Alexandre SAMBAT; Chancery at 2034 20th Street NW,
    Washington, DC 20009; telephone (202) 797-1000

:Gabon Government

  US:
    Ambassador Keith L. WAUCHOPE; Embassy at Boulevard de la Mer, Libreville
    (mailing address is B. P. 4000, Libreville); telephone (241) 762003/4, or
    743492
Flag:
    three equal horizontal bands of green (top), yellow, and blue

:Gabon Economy

Overview:
    The economy, dependent on timber and manganese until the early 1970s, is now
    dominated by the oil sector. During the period 1981-85, oil accounted for
    about 46% of GDP, 83% of export earnings, and 65% of government revenues on
    average. The high oil prices of the early 1980s contributed to a substantial
    increase in per capita income, stimulated domestic demand, reinforced
    migration from rural to urban areas, and raised the level of real wages to
    among the highest in Sub-Saharan Africa. The three-year slide of Gabon's
    economy, which began with falling oil prices in 1985, was reversed in 1989
    because of a near doubling of oil prices over their 1988 lows. In 1990 the
    economy posted strong growth despite serious strikes, but debt servicing
    problems are hindering economic advancement. The agricultural and industrial
    sectors are relatively underdeveloped, except for oil.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $3.3 billion, per capita $3,090; real growth rate
    13% (1990 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    3% (1989 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    NA%
Budget:
    revenues $1.1 billion; expenditures $1.5 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $277 million (1990 est.)
Exports:
    $1.16 billion (f.o.b., 1989)
  commodities:
    crude oil 70%, manganese 11%, wood 12%, uranium 6%
  partners:
    France 53%, US 22%, FRG, Japan
Imports:
    $0.78 billion (c.i.f., 1989)
  commodities:
    foodstuffs, chemical products, petroleum products, construction materials,
    manufactures, machinery
  partners:
    France 48%, US 2.6%, FRG, Japan, UK
External debt:
    $3.4 billion (December 1990 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate -10% (1988 est.)
Electricity:
    315,000 kW capacity; 995 million kWh produced, 920 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    petroleum, food and beverages, timber, cement, plywood, textiles, mining -
    manganese, uranium, gold
Agriculture:
    accounts for 10% of GDP (including fishing and forestry); cash crops -
    cocoa, coffee, palm oil; livestock not developed; importer of food; small
    fishing operations provide a catch of about 20,000 metric tons; okoume (a
    tropical softwood) is the most important timber product
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $66 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $2,225 million;
    Communist countries (1970-89), $27 million
Currency:
    Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (plural - francs); 1 CFA franc (CFAF)
    = 100 centimes

:Gabon Economy

Exchange rates:
    Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (CFAF) per US$1 - 269.01 (January
    1992), 282.11 (1991), 272.26 (1990), 319.01 (1989), 297.85 (1988), 300.54
    (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Gabon Communications

Railroads:
    649 km 1.437-meter standard-gauge single track (Transgabonese Railroad)
Highways:
    7,500 km total; 560 km paved, 960 km laterite, 5,980 km earth
Inland waterways:
    1,600 km perennially navigable
Pipelines:
    crude oil 270 km; petroleum products 14 km
Ports:
    Owendo, Port-Gentil, Libreville
Merchant marine:
    2 cargo ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 18,563 GRT/25,330 DWT
Civil air:
    15 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    70 total, 59 usable; 10 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 2 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 22 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    adequate system of cable, radio relay, tropospheric scatter links and
    radiocommunication stations; 15,000 telephones; broadcast stations - 6 AM, 6
    FM, 3 (5 repeaters) TV; satellite earth stations - 3 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT
    and 12 domestic satellite

:Gabon Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Navy, Air Force, Presidential Guard, National Gendarmerie, National
    Police
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 267,580; 134,665 fit for military service; 9,262 reach military
    age (20) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $102 million, 3.2% of GDP (1990 est.)

:The Gambia Geography

Total area:
    11,300 km2
Land area:
    10,000 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly more than twice the size of Delaware
Land boundaries:
    740 km; Senegal 740 km
Coastline:
    80 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    18 nm
  Continental shelf:
    not specific
  Exclusive fishing zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    short section of boundary with Senegal is indefinite
Climate:
    tropical; hot, rainy season (June to November); cooler, dry season (November
    to May)
Terrain:
    flood plain of the Gambia River flanked by some low hills
Natural resources:
    fish
Land use:
    arable land 16%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 9%; forest and
    woodland 20%; other 55%; includes irrigated 3%
Environment:
    deforestation
Note:
    almost an enclave of Senegal; smallest country on the continent of Africa

:The Gambia People

Population:
    902,089 (July 1992), growth rate 3.1% (1992)
Birth rate:
    47 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    17 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    129 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    47 years male, 51 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    6.4 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Gambian(s); adjective - Gambian
Ethnic divisions:
    African 99% (Mandinka 42%, Fula 18%, Wolof 16%, Jola 10%, Serahuli 9%, other
    4%); non-Gambian 1%
Religions:
    Muslim 90%, Christian 9%, indigenous beliefs 1%
Languages:
    English (official); Mandinka, Wolof, Fula, other indigenous vernaculars
Literacy:
    27% (male 39%, female 16%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    400,000 (1986 est.); agriculture 75.0%, industry, commerce, and services
    18.9%, government 6.1%; 55% population of working age (1983)
Organized labor:
    25-30% of wage labor force

:The Gambia Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of The Gambia
Type:
    republic under multiparty democratic rule
Capital:
    Banjul
Administrative divisions:
    5 divisions and 1 city*; Banjul*, Lower River, MacCarthy Island, North Bank,
    Upper River, Western
Independence:
    18 February 1965 (from UK); The Gambia and Senegal signed an agreement on 12
    December 1981 (effective 1 February 1982) that called for the creation of a
    loose confederation to be known as Senegambia, but the agreement was
    dissolved on 30 September 1989
Constitution:
    24 April 1970
Legal system:
    based on a composite of English common law, Koranic law, and customary law;
    accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with reservations
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 18 February (1965)
Executive branch:
    president, vice president, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    unicameral House of Representatives
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State and Head of Government:
    President Alhaji Sir Dawda Kairaba JAWARA (since 24 April 1970); Vice
    President Bakary Bunja DARBO (since 12 May 1982)
Political parties and leaders:
    People's Progressive Party (PPP), Dawda K. JAWARA, secretary general;
    National Convention Party (NCP), Sheriff DIBBA; Gambian People's Party
    (GPP), Hassan Musa CAMARA; United Party (UP), leader NA; People's Democratic
    Organization of Independence and Socialism (PDOIS), leader NA; People's
    Democratic Party (PDP), Jabel SALLAH
Suffrage:
    universal at age 21
Elections:
  House of Representatives:
    last held on 11 March 1987 (next to be held by March 1992); results - PPP
    56.6%, NCP 27.6%, GPP 14.7%, PDOIS 1%; seats - (43 total, 36 elected) PPP
    31, NCP 5
  President:
    last held on 11 March 1987 (next to be held March 1992); results - Sir Dawda
    JAWARA (PPP) 61.1%, Sherif Mustapha DIBBA (NCP) 25.2%, Assan Musa CAMARA
    (GPP) 13.7%
Member of:
    ACP, AfDB, C, CCC, ECA, ECOWAS, FAO, G-77, GATT, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, IDA,
    IDB, IFAD, IFC, IMF, IMO, INTERPOL, IOC, ITU, LORCS, NAM, OAU, OIC, UN,
    UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Ousman A. SALLAH; Chancery at Suite 720, 1030 15th Street NW,
    Washington, DC 20005; telephone (202) 842-1356 or 842-1359
  US:
    Ambassador Arlene RENDER; Embassy at Pipeline Road (Kairaba Avenue), Fajara,
    Banjul (mailing address is P. M. B. No. 19, Banjul); telephone Serrekunda
    [220] 92856 or 92858, 91970, 91971

:The Gambia Government

Flag:
    three equal horizontal bands of red (top), blue with white edges, and green

:The Gambia Economy

Overview:
    The Gambia has no important mineral or other natural resources and has a
    limited agricultural base. It is one of the world's poorest countries with a
    per capita income of about $230. About 75% of the population is engaged in
    crop production and livestock raising, which contribute 30% to GDP.
    Small-scale manufacturing activity - processing peanuts, fish, and hides -
    accounts for less than 10% of GDP. Tourism is a growing industry. The Gambia
    imports one-third of its food, all fuel, and most manufactured goods.
    Exports are concentrated on peanut products (about 75% of total value).
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $207 million, per capita $235; real growth rate
    3% (FY91 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    6.0% (FY91)
Unemployment rate:
    NA%
Budget:
    revenues $79 million; expenditures $84 million, including capital
    expenditures of $21 million (FY90)
Exports:
    $116 million (f.o.b., FY90)
  commodities:
    peanuts and peanut products, fish, cotton lint, palm kernels
  partners:
    Japan 60%, Europe 29%, Africa 5%, US 1, other 5% (1989)
Imports:
    $147 million (f.o.b., FY90)
  commodities:
    foodstuffs, manufactures, raw materials, fuel, machinery and transport
    equipment
  partners:
    Europe 57%, Asia 25%, USSR/EE 9%, US 6%, other 3% (1989)
External debt:
    $336 million (December 1990 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 6.7%; accounts for 5.8% of GDP (FY90)
Electricity:
    30,000 kW capacity; 65 million kWh produced, 75 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    peanut processing, tourism, beverages, agricultural machinery assembly,
    woodworking, metalworking, clothing
Agriculture:
    accounts for 30% of GDP and employs about 75% of the population; imports
    one-third of food requirements; major export crop is peanuts; the other
    principal crops - millet, sorghum, rice, corn, cassava, palm kernels;
    livestock - cattle, sheep, and goats; forestry and fishing resources not
    fully exploited
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $93 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $535 million;
    Communist countries (1970-89), $39 million
Currency:
    dalasi (plural - dalasi); 1 dalasi (D) = 100 bututs
Exchange rates:
    dalasi (D) per US$1 - 8.790 (March 1992), 8.803 (1991), 7.883 (1990), 7.5846
    (1989), 6.7086 (1988), 7.0744 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    1 July - 30 June

:The Gambia Communications

Highways:
    3,083 km total; 431 km paved, 501 km gravel/laterite, and 2,151 km
    unimproved earth
Inland waterways:
    400 km
Ports:
    Banjul
Civil air:
    4 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    1 with permanent-surface runway 2,440-3,659 m
Telecommunications:
    adequate network of radio relay and wire; 3,500 telephones; broadcast
    stations - 3 AM, 2 FM; 1 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT earth station

:The Gambia Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Navy, National Gendarmerie, National Police
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 194,480; 98,271 fit for military service
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - more than $1 million, 0.7% of GDP (1989)
\

:Gaza Strip Geography

Total area:
    380 km2
Land area:
    380 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly more than twice the size of Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    62 km; Egypt 11 km, Israel 51 km
Coastline:
    40 km
Maritime claims:
    Israeli occupied with status to be determined
Disputes:
    Israeli occupied with status to be determined
Climate:
    temperate, mild winters, dry and warm to hot summers
Terrain:
    flat to rolling, sand- and dune- covered coastal plain
Natural resources:
    negligible
Land use:
    arable land 13%, permanent crops 32%, meadows and pastures 0%, forest and
    woodland 0%, other 55%
Environment:
    desertification
Note:
    The war between Israel and the Arab states in June 1967 ended with Israel in
    control of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip, the Sinai, and the Golan
    Heights. As stated in the 1978 Camp David accords and reaffirmed by
    President Bush's post - Gulf crisis peace initiative, the final status of
    the West Bank and the Gaza Strip, their relationship with their neighbors,
    and a peace treaty be-tween Israel and Jordan are to be negotiated among the
    concerned parties. Camp David further specifies that these negotiations will
    resolve the respective boundaries. Pending the completion of this process,
    it is US policy that the final status of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip
    has yet to be determined. In the US view, the term West Bank describes all
    of the area west of the Jordan River under Jordanian administration before
    the 1967 Arab-Israeli war. With respect to negotiations envisaged in the
    framework agreement, however, it is US policy that a distinction must be
    made between Jerusalem and the rest of the West Bank because of the city's
    special status and circumstances. Therefore, a negotiated solution for the
    final status of Jerusalem could be different in character from that of the
    rest of the West Bank.
    The Gaza Strip is currently governed by Israeli military authorities and
    Israeli civil administration; it is US policy that the final status of the
    Gaza Strip will be determined by negotiations among the concerned parties;
    these negotiations will determine how this area is to be governed.
    There are 18 Jewish settlements in the Gaza Strip.

:Gaza Strip People

Population:
    681,026 (July 1992), growth rate 3.6% (1992); in addition, there are 4,000
    Jewish settlers in the Gaza Strip (1992 est.)
Birth rate:
    46 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    6 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    - 4 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    41 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    66 years male, 68 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    6.9 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    NA
Ethnic divisions:
    Palestinian Arab and other 99.8%, Jewish 0.2%
Religions:
    Muslim (predominantly Sunni) 99%, Christian 0.7%, Jewish 0.3%
Languages:
    Arabic, Israeli settlers speak Hebrew; English widely understood
Literacy:
    NA% (male NA%, female NA%)
Labor force:
    (excluding Israeli Jewish settlers) small industry, commerce and business
    32.0%, construction 24.4%, service and other 25.5%, and agriculture 18.1%
    (1984)
Organized labor:
    NA

:Gaza Strip Government

Long-form name:
    none

:Gaza Strip Economy

Overview:
    In 1990 roughly 40% of Gaza Strip workers were employed across the border by
    Israeli industrial, construction, and agricultural enterprises, with worker
    remittances accounting for about one-third of GNP. The construction,
    agricultural, and industrial sectors account for about 15%, 12%, and 8% of
    GNP, respectively. Gaza depends upon Israel for some 90% of its external
    trade. Unrest in the territory in 1988-92 (intifadah) has raised
    unemployment and substantially lowered the standard of living of Gazans. The
    Persian Gulf crisis and its aftershocks also have dealt severe blows to Gaza
    since August 1990. Worker remittances from the Gulf states have plunged,
    unemployment has increased, and exports have fallen dramatically. The area's
    economic outlook remains bleak.
GNP:
    exchange rate conversion - $380 million, per capita $590; real growth rate -
    30% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    9% (1991 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    20% (1990 est.)
Budget:
    revenues $33.8 million; expenditures $33.3 million, including capital
    expenditures of $NA (FY88)
Exports:
    $30 million (f.o.b., 1989)
  commodities:
    citrus
  partners:
    Israel, Egypt
Imports:
    $255 million (c.i.f., 1989)
  commodities:
    food, consumer goods, construction materials
  partners:
    Israel, Egypt
External debt:
    $NA
Industrial production:
    growth rate 10% (1989); accounts for about 8% of GNP
Electricity:
    power supplied by Israel
Industries:
    generally small family businesses that produce textiles, soap, olive-wood
    carvings, and mother-of-pearl souvenirs; the Israelis have established some
    small-scale modern industries in an industrial center
Agriculture:
    accounts for about 12% of GNP; olives, citrus and other fruits, vegetables,
    beef, dairy products
Economic aid:
    NA
Currency:
    new Israeli shekel (plural - shekels); 1 new Israeli shekel (NIS) = 100 new
    agorot
Exchange rates:
    new Israeli shekels (NIS) per US$1 - 2.2984 (January 1992), 2.2792 (1991),
    2.0162 (1990), 1.9164 (1989), 1.5989 (1988), 1.5946 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    previously 1 April - 31 March; FY91 was 1 April - 3l December, and since 1
    January 1992 the fiscal year has conformed to the calendar year

:Gaza Strip Communications

Railroads:
    one line, abandoned and in disrepair, some trackage remains
Highways:
    small, poorly developed indigenous road network
Ports:
    facilities for small boats to service the city of Gaza
Airports:
    1 with permanent-surface runway less than 1,220 m
Telecommunications:
    broadcast stations - no AM, no FM, no TV

:Gaza Strip Defense Forces

Branches:
    NA
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 136,311; NA fit for military service
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $NA, NA% of GDP

:Georgia Geography

Total area:
    69,700 km2
Land area:
    69,700 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than South Carolina
Land boundaries:
    1,461 km; Armenia 164 km, Azerbaijan 322 km, Russia 723 km, Turkey 252 km
Coastline:
    310 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    NA nm
  Continental Shelf:
    NA meter depth
  Exclusive economic zone:
    NA nm
  Exclusive fishing zone:
    NA nm
  Territorial sea:
    NA nm, Georgian claims unknown; 12 nm in 1973 USSR-Turkish Protocol
    concerning the sea boundary between the two states in the Black Sea
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    warm and pleasant; Mediterranean-like on Black Sea coast
Terrain:
    largely mountainous with Great Caucasus Mountains in the north and Lesser
    Caucasus Mountains in the south; Colchis lowland opens to the Black Sea in
    the west; Kura River Basin in the east; good soils in river valley flood
    plains, foothills of Colchis lowland
Natural resources:
    forest lands, hydropower, manganese deposits, iron ores, copper, minor coal
    and oil deposits; coastal climate and soils allow for important tea and
    citrus growth
Land use:
    NA% arable land; NA% permanent crops; NA% meadows and pastures; NA% forest
    and woodland; NA% other; includes 200,000 hectares irrigated
Environment:
    air pollution, particularly in Rustavi; heavy pollution of Kura River, Black
    Sea

:Georgia People

Population:
    5,570,978 (July 1992), growth rate 0.8% (1992)
Birth rate:
    17 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    9 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    1 migrant/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    34 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    67 years male, 75 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    2.2 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Georgian(s); adjective - Georgian
Ethnic divisions:
    Georgian 68.8%, Armenian 9.0%, Russian Azari 5.1%, Ossetian 3.2%, Abkhaz
    1.7%, other 4.8%
Religions:
    Russian Orthodox 10%, Georgian Orthodox 65%, Armenian Orthodox 8%, Muslim
    11%, unknown 6%
Languages:
    Georgian (official language) 71%, Russian 9%, other 20% - Armenian 7%,
    Azerbaijani 6%
Literacy:
    NA% (male NA%, female NA%) age 15 and over can read and write
Labor force:
    2,834,000; agriculture 29.1% (1988), government NA%, industry 17.8%, other
    53.1%
Organized labor:
    NA

:Georgia Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Georgia
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    T'bilisi (Tbilisi)
Administrative divisions:
    2 autonomous republics (avtomnoy respubliki, singular - avtom respublika);
    Abkhazia (Sukhumi), Ajaria (Batumi); note - the administrative centers of
    the autonomous republics are included in parentheses; there are no oblasts -
    the rayons around T'bilisi are under direct republic jurisdiction; also
    included is the South Ossetia Autonomous Oblast
Independence:
    9 April 1991 (from Soviet Union); formerly Georgian Soviet Socialist
    Republic
Constitution:
    adopted NA, effective NA
Legal system:
    NA
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 9 April 1991
Executive branch:
    State Council, chairman of State Council, Council of Ministers, prime
    minister
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Supreme Soviet
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Chairman of State Council Eduard SHEVARDNADZE (since March 1992)
  Head of Government:
    Acting Prime Minister Tengiz SIGUA (since January 1992); First Deputy Prime
    Minister Otar KVILITAYA (since January 1992); First Deputy Prime Minister
    Tengiz KITOVANI (since March 1992)
Political parties and leaders:
    All-Georgian Merab Kostava Society, Vazha ADAMIA, chairman; All-Georgian
    Tradionalists' Union, Akakiy ASATIANI, chairman; Georgian National Front -
    Radical Union, Ruslan GONGADZE, chairman; Social-Democratic Party, Guram
    MUCHAIDZE, chairman; All-Georgian Rustaveli Society, Akakiy BAKRADZE,
    chairman; Georgian Monarchists' Party, Teymur JORJOLIANI, chairman; Georgian
    Popular Front, Nodar NATADZE, chairman; National Democratic Party, Georgiy
    CHANTURIA, chairman; National Independence Party, Irakliy TSERETELI,
    chairman; Charter 1991 Party, Tedo PAATASHVILI, chairman; Democratic Georgia
    Party, Georgiy SHENGELAYA, Chairman
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  Georgian Parliament:
    last held November 1990; results - 7-party coalition Round Table - Free
    Georgia 62%, other 38%; seats - (250) Round Table - Free Georgia 155, other
    95
  President:
    Zviad GAMSAKHURDIYA, 87% of vote
Other political or pressure groups:
    NA
Member of:
    CSCE, IMF, World Bank

:Georgia Government

Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador NA, Chancery at NA NW, Washington, DC 200__; telephone (202) NA
  US:
    Ambassador NA; Embassy at NA (mailing address is APO New York 09862)
Flag:
    maroon field with small rectangle in upper left corner; rectangle divided
    horizontally with black on top, white below

:Georgia Economy

Overview:
    Among the former Soviet republics, Georgia is noted for its Black Sea
    tourist industry, its large output of citrus fruits and tea, and the amazing
    diversity of an industrial sector that accounted, however, for less than 2%
    of the USSR's output. Another salient characteristic of the economy has been
    a flourishing private sector (compared with the other republics). Almost 30%
    of the labor force is employed in agriculture and 18% in industry. Mineral
    resources consist of manganese and copper, and, to a lesser extent,
    molybdenum, arsenic, tungsten, and mercury. Except for very small quantities
    of domestic oil, gas, and coal, fuel must be imported from neighboring
    republics. Oil and its products are delivered by pipeline from Azerbaijan to
    the port of Batumi for export and local refining. Gas is supplied in
    pipelines from Krasnodar and Stavropol'. Georgia is nearly self-sufficient
    in electric power, thanks to abundant hydropower stations as well as some
    thermal power stations. The dismantling of central economic controls is
    being delayed by political factionalism, marked by armed struggles between
    the elected government and the opposition, and industrial output seems to
    have fallen more steeply in Georgia in 1991 than in any other of the former
    Soviet republics. To prevent further economic decline, Georgia must
    establish domestic peace and must maintain economic ties to the other former
    Soviet republics while developing new links to the West.
GDP:
    purchasing power equivalent - $NA; per capita $NA; real growth rate - 23%
    (1991)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    approximately 90% (1991)
Unemployment rate:
    NA%
Budget:
    revenues $NA; expenditures $NA, including capital expenditures of $NA
    million (1991)
Exports:
    $176 million (f.o.b., 1990)
  commodities:
    citrus fruits, tea, other agricultural products; diverse types of machinery;
    ferrous and nonferrous metals; textiles
  partners:
    NA
Imports:
    $1.5 billion (c.i.f., 1990)
  commodities:
    machinery and parts, fuel, transport equipment, textiles
  partners:
    NA
External debt:
    $650 million (1991 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate - 19% (1991)
Electricity:
    4,575,000 kW capacity; 15,300 million kWh produced, about 2,600 kWh per
    capita (1991)
Industries:
    Heavy industrial products include raw steel, rolled steel, cement, lumber;
    machine tools, foundry equipment, electric mining locomotives, tower cranes,
    electric welding equipment, machinery for food preparation, meat packing,
    dairy, and fishing industries; air-conditioning electric motors up to 100 kW
    in size, electric motors for cranes, magnetic starters for motors; devices
    for control of industrial processes; trucks, tractors, and other farm
    machinery; light industrial products, including cloth, hosiery, and shoes

:Georgia Economy

Agriculture:
    accounted for 97% of former USSR citrus fruits and 93% of former USSR tea;
    berries and grapes; sugar; vegetables, grains, and potatoes; cattle, pigs,
    sheep, goats, and poultry
Illicit drugs:
    illicit producers of cannabis and opium; mostly for domestic consumption;
    status of government eradication programs unknown; used as transshipment
    points for illicit drugs to Western Europe
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-87), $NA billion; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-86), $NA million;
    Communist countries (1971-86), $NA million
Currency:
    as of May 1992, retaining ruble as currency
Exchange rates:
    NA
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Georgia Communications

Railroads:
    1,570 km, does not include industrial lines (1990)
Highways:
    33,900 km total; 29,500 km hard surfaced, 4,400 km earth (1990)
Inland waterways:
    NA km perennially navigable
Pipelines:
    crude oil NA km, refined products NA km, natural gas NA km
Ports:
    maritime - Batumi, Poti; inland - NA
Merchant marine:
    54 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 715,802 GRT/1,108,068 DWT; includes 16
    bulk cargo, 34 oil tanker, 2 chemical tanker, and 2 specialized liquid
    carrier
Civil air:
    NA major transport aircraft
Airports:
    NA total, NA usable; NA with permanent-surface runways; NA with runways over
    3,659 m; NA with runways 2,440-3,659 m; NA with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    poor telephone service; 339,000 unsatisfied applications for telephones (31
    January 1992); international links via landline to CIS members and Turkey;
    low capacity satellite earth station and leased international connections
    via the Moscow international gateway switch

:Georgia Defense Forces

Branches:
    Republic Security Forces (internal and border troops), National Guard; CIS
    Forces (Ground, Navy, Air, and Air Defense)
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, NA fit for military service; NA reach military age (18)
    annually
Defense expenditures:
    $NA, NA% of GNP

:Germany Geography

Total area:
    356,910 km2
Land area:
    349,520 km2; comprises the formerly separate Federal Republic of Germany,
    the German Democratic Republic, and Berlin following formal unification on 3
    October 1990
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than Montana
Land boundaries:
    3,790 km; Austria 784 km, Belgium 167 km, Czechoslovakia 815 km, Denmark 68
    km, France 451 km, Luxembourg 138 km, Netherlands 577 km, Poland 456 km,
    Switzerland 334 km
Coastline:
    2,389 km
Maritime claims:
  Continental shelf:
    200 m (depth) or to depth of exploitation
  Exclusive fishing zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    North Sea and Schleswig-Holstein coast of Baltic Sea - 3 nm (extends, at one
    point, to 16 nm in the Helgolander Bucht); remainder of Baltic Sea - 12 nm
Disputes:
    the boundaries of Germany were set by the Treaty on the Final Settlement
    With Respect to Germany signed 12 September 1990 in Moscow by the Federal
    Republic of Germany, the German Democratic Republic, France, the United
    Kingdom, the United States, and the Soviet Union; this Treaty entered into
    force on 15 March 1991; a subsequent Treaty between Germany and Poland,
    reaffirming the German-Polish boundary, was signed on 14 November 1990 and
    took effect on 16 January 1992
Climate:
    temperate and marine; cool, cloudy, wet winters and summers; occasional
    warm, tropical foehn wind; high relative humidity
Terrain:
    lowlands in north, uplands in center, Bavarian Alps in south
Natural resources:
    iron ore, coal, potash, timber, lignite, uranium, copper, natural gas, salt,
    nickel
Land use:
    arable land 34%; permanent crops 1%; meadows and pastures 16%; forest and
    woodland 30%; other 19%; includes irrigated 1%
Environment:
    air and water pollution; groundwater, lakes, and air quality in eastern
    Germany are especially bad; significant deforestation in the eastern
    mountains caused by air pollution and acid rain
Note:
    strategic location on North European Plain and along the entrance to the
    Baltic Sea

:Germany People

Population:
    80,387,283 (July 1992), growth rate 0.5% (1992)
Birth rate:
    11 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    11 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    5 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    7 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    73 years male, 79 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    1.4 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - German(s); adjective - German
Ethnic divisions:
    primarily German; small Danish and Slavic minorities
Religions:
    Protestant 45%, Roman Catholic 37%, unaffiliated or other 18%
Languages:
    German
Literacy:
    99% (male NA%, female NA%) age 15 and over can read and write (1970 est.)
Labor force:
    36,750,000; industry 41%, agriculture 6%, other 53% (1987)
Organized labor:
    47% of labor force (1986 est.)

:Germany Government

Long-form name:
    Federal Republic of Germany
Type:
    federal republic
Capital:
    Berlin; note - the shift from Bonn to Berlin will take place over a period
    of years with Bonn retaining many administrative functions and several
    ministries
Administrative divisions:
    16 states (lander, singular - land); Baden-Wurttemberg, Bayern, Berlin,
    Brandenburg, Bremen, Hamburg, Hessen, Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, Niedersachsen,
    Nordrhein-Westfalen, Rheinland-Pfalz, Saarland, Sachsen, Sachsen-Anhalt,
    Schleswig-Holstein, Thuringen
Independence:
    18 January 1871 (German Empire unification); divided into four zones of
    occupation (UK, US, USSR, and later, France) in 1945 following World War II;
    Federal Republic of Germany (FRG or West Germany) proclaimed 23 May 1949 and
    included the former UK, US, and French zones; German Democratic Republic
    (GDR or East Germany) proclaimed 7 October 1949 and included the former USSR
    zone; unification of West Germany and East Germany took place 3 October
    1990; all four power rights formally relinquished 15 March 1991
Constitution:
    23 May 1949, provisional constitution known as Basic Law
Legal system:
    civil law system with indigenous concepts; judicial review of legislative
    acts in the Federal Constitutional Court; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
    jurisdiction
National holiday:
    German Unity Day, 3 October (1990)
Executive branch:
    president, chancellor, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    bicameral parliament (no official name for the two chambers as a whole)
    consists of an upper chamber or Federal Council (Bundesrat) and a lower
    chamber or Federal Diet (Bundestag)
Judicial branch:
    Federal Constitutional Court (Bundesverfassungsgericht)
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Dr. Richard von WEIZSACKER (since 1 July 1984)
  Head of Government:
    Chancellor Dr. Helmut KOHL (since 4 October 1982)
    *** No entry for this item ***
Political parties and leaders:
    Christian Democratic Union (CDU), Helmut KOHL, chairman; Christian Social
    Union (CSU), Theo WAIGEL; Free Democratic Party (FDP), Otto Count
    LAMBSDORFF, chairman; Social Democratic Party (SPD), Bjoern ENGHOLM, -
    chairman; - Green - Party - Ludger VOLMER, Christine WEISKE, co-chairmen
    (after the 2 December 1990 election the East and West German Green Parties
    united); Alliance 90 united to form one party in September 1991, Petra
    MORAWE, chairwoman; Republikaner, Franz SCHOENHUBER; National Democratic
    Party (NPD), Walter BACHMANN; Communist Party (DKP), Rolf PRIEMER
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18

:Germany Government

Elections:
  Federal Diet:
    last held 2 December 1990 (next to be held October 1994); results - CDU
    36.7%, SPD 33.5%, FDP 11.0%, CSU 7.1%, Green Party (West Germany) 3.9%, PDS
    2.4%, Republikaner 2.1%, Alliance 90/Green Party (East Germany) 1.2%, other
    2.1%; seats - (662 total, 656 statutory with special rules to allow for
    slight expansion) CDU 268, SPD 239, FDP 79, CSU 51, PDS 17, Alliance
    90/Green Party (East Germany) 8; note - special rules for this election
    allowed former East German parties to win seats if they received at least 5%
    of vote in eastern Germany
    *** No entry for this item ***
Communists:
    West - about 40,000 members and supporters; East - about 200,000 party
    members (December 1991)
Other political or pressure groups:
    expellee, refugee, and veterans groups
Member of:
    AfDB, AG (observer), AsDB, BDEAC, BIS, CCC, CE, CERN, COCOM, CSCE, EBRD, EC,
    ECE, EIB, ESA, FAO, G-5, G-7, G-10, GATT, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC,
    ICFTU, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INMARSAT, INTELSAT, INTERPOL,
    IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, LORCS, NATO, NEA, OAS (observer), OECD, PCA, UN, UNCTAD,
    UNESCO, UNIDO, UNHCR, UPU, WEU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Dr. Immo STABREIT will become Ambassador in late summer/early
    fall 1992; Chancery at 4645 Reservoir Road NW, Washington, DC 20007;
    telephone (202) 298-4000; there are German Consulates General in Atlanta,
    Boston, Chicago, Detroit, Houston, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Seattle, and
    New York, and Consulates in Miami and New Orleans
  US:
    Ambassador Robert M. KIMMITT; Embassy at Deichmanns Avenue, 5300 Bonn 2
    (mailing address is APO AE 09080); telephone [49] (228) 3391; there is a US
    Branch Office in Berlin and US Consulates General in Frankfurt, Hamburg,
    Leipzig, Munich, and Stuttgart
Flag:
    three equal horizontal bands of black (top), red, and yellow

:Germany Economy

Overview:
    The Federal Republic of Germany is making substantial progress in
    integrating and modernizing eastern Germany, but at a heavy economic cost.
    Western Germany's growth in 1991 slowed to 3.1% - the lowest rate since 1987
    - because of slack world growth and higher interest rates and taxes required
    by the unification process. While western Germany's economy was in recession
    in the last half of 1991, eastern Germany's economy bottomed out after a
    nearly two-year freefall and shows signs of recovery, particularly in the
    construction, transportation, and service sectors. Eastern Germany could
    begin a fragile recovery later, concentrated in 1992 in construction,
    transportation, and services. The two regions remain vastly different,
    however, despite eastern Germany's progress. Western Germany has an advanced
    market economy and is a world leader in exports. It has a highly urbanized
    and skilled population that enjoys excellent living standards, abundant
    leisure time, and comprehensive social welfare benefits. Western Germany is
    relatively poor in natural resources, coal being the most important mineral.
    Western Germany's world-class companies manufacture technologically advanced
    goods. The region's economy is mature: services and manufacturing account
    for the dominant share of economic activity, and raw materials and
    semimanufactured goods constitute a large portion of imports. In recent
    years, manufacturing has accounted for about 31% of GDP, with other sectors
    contributing lesser amounts. Gross fixed investment in 1990 accounted for
    about 21% of GDP. In 1991, GDP in the western region was an estimated
    $19,200 per capita. In contrast, eastern Germany's economy is shedding the
    obsolete heavy industries that dominated the economy during the Communist
    era. Eastern Germany's share of all-German GDP is only about 7%, and eastern
    productivity is just 30% that of the west. The privatization agency for
    eastern Germany, the Treuhand, is rapidly selling many of the 11,500 firms
    under its control. The pace of private investment is starting to pick up,
    but questions about property rights and environmental liabilities remain.
    Eastern Germany has one of the world's largest reserves of low-grade lignite
    coal but little else in the way of mineral resources. The quality of
    statistics from eastern Germany is improving, yet many gaps remain; the
    federal government began producing all-German data for select economic
    statistics at the start of 1992. The most challenging economic problem is
    promoting eastern Germany's economic reconstruction - specifically, finding
    the right mix of fiscal, monetary, regulatory, and tax policies that will
    spur investment in eastern Germany - without destabilizing western Germany's
    economy or damaging relations with West European partners. The biggest
    danger is that excessive wage settlements and heavy federal borrowing could
    fuel inflation and prompt the German Central Bank, the Bundesbank, to keep a
    tight monetary policy to choke off a wage-price spiral. Meanwhile, the FRG
    has been providing billions of dollars to help the former Soviet republics
    and the reformist economies of Eastern Europe.
GDP:
    purchasing power equivalent - Federal Republic of Germany: $1,331.4 billion,
    per capita $16,700; real growth rate 0.7%; western Germany: $1,235.8
    billion, per capita $19,200; real growth rate 3.1%; eastern Germany $95.6
    billion, per capita $5,870; real growth rate - 30% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    West - 3.5% (1991); East - NA%
Unemployment rate:
    West - 6.3% (1991); East - 11% (1991)
Budget:
    West (federal, state, local) - revenues $684 billion; expenditures $704
    billion, including capital expenditures $NA (1990), East - NA
Exports:
    West - $324.3 billion (f.o.b., 1989)

:Germany Economy

  commodities:
    manufactures 86.6% (including machines and machine tools, chemicals, motor
    vehicles, iron and steel products), agricultural products 4.9%, raw
    materials 2.3%, fuels 1.3%
Exports:
  partners:
    EC 53.3% (France 12.7%, Netherlands 8.3%, Italy 9.1%, UK 8.3%,
    Belgium-Luxembourg 7.3%), other Western Europe 15.9%, US 7.1%, Eastern
    Europe 4.1%, OPEC 2.7% (1990)
Imports:
    West - $346.5 billion (f.o.b., 1989)
  commodities:
    manufactures 68.5%, agricultural products 12.0%, fuels 9.7%, raw materials
    7.1%
  partners:
    EC 51.7% (France 11.7%, Netherlands 10.1%, Italy 9.3%, UK 6.7%,
    Belgium-Luxembourg 7.2%), other Western Europe 13.4%, US 6.6%, Eastern
    Europe 3.8%, OPEC 2.5% (1990)
External debt:
    West - $500 million (June 1988); East - $20.6 billion (1989)
Industrial production:
    growth rates, West - 5.4% (1990); East - 30% (1991 est.)
Electricity:
    133,000,000 kW capacity; 580,000 million kWh produced, 7,390 kWh per capita
    (1991)
Industries:
    West - among world's largest producers of iron, steel, coal, cement,
    chemicals, machinery, vehicles, machine tools, electronics; food and
    beverages; East - metal fabrication, chemicals, brown coal, shipbuilding,
    machine building, food and beverages, textiles, petroleum refining
Agriculture:
    West - accounts for about 2% of GDP (including fishing and forestry);
    diversified crop and livestock farming; principal crops and livestock
    include potatoes, wheat, barley, sugar beets, fruit, cabbage, cattle, pigs,
    poultry; net importer of food; fish catch of 202,000 metric tons in 1987;
    East - accounts for about 10% of GDP (including fishing and forestry);
    principal crops - wheat, rye, barley, potatoes, sugar beets, fruit;
    livestock products include pork, beef, chicken, milk, hides and skins; net
    importer of food; fish catch of 193,600 metric tons in 1987
Economic aid:
    West - donor - ODA and OOF commitments (1970-89), $75.5 billion; East -
    donor - $4.0 billion extended bilaterally to non-Communist less developed
    countries (1956-89)
Currency:
    deutsche mark (plural - deutsche marks); 1 deutsche mark (DM) = 100 pfennige
Exchange rates:
    deutsche marks (DM) per US$1 - 1.6611 (March 1992), 1.6595 (1991), 1.6157
    (1990), 1.8800 (1989), 1.7562 (1988), 1.7974 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Germany Communications

Railroads:
    West - 31,443 km total; 27,421 km government owned, 1.435-meter standard
    gauge (12,491 km double track, 11,501 km electrified); 4,022 km
    nongovernment owned, including 3,598 km 1.435-meter standard gauge (214 km
    electrified) and 424 km 1.000-meter gauge (186 km electrified); East -
    14,025 km total; 13,750 km 1.435-meter standard gauge, 275 km 1.000-meter or
    other narrow gauge; 3,830 (est.) km 1.435-meter standard gauge double-track;
    3,475 km overhead electrified (1988)
Highways:
    West - 466,305 km total; 169,568 km primary, includes 6,435 km autobahn,
    32,460 km national highways (Bundesstrassen), 65,425 km state highways
    (Landesstrassen), 65,248 km county roads (Kreisstrassen); 296,737 km of
    secondary communal roads (Gemeindestrassen); East - 124,604 km total; 47,203
    km concrete, asphalt, stone block, of which 1,855 km are autobahn and
    limited access roads, 11,326 are trunk roads, and 34,022 are regional roads;
    77,401 municipal roads (1988)
Inland waterways:
    West - 5,222 km, of which almost 70% are usable by craft of 1,000-metric ton
    capacity or larger; major rivers include the Rhine and Elbe; Kiel Canal is
    an important connection between the Baltic Sea and North Sea; East - 2,319
    km (1988)
Pipelines:
    crude oil 3,644 km; petroleum products 3,946 km; natural gas 97,564 km
    (1988)
Ports:
    maritime - Bremerhaven, Brunsbuttel, Cuxhaven, Emden, Bremen, Hamburg, Kiel,
    Lubeck, Wilhelmshaven, Rostock, Wismar, Stralsund, Sassnitz; inland - 31
    major
Merchant marine:
    607 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 5,210,060 GRT/6,626,333 DWT; includes
    3 passenger, 5 short-sea passenger, 324 cargo, 10 refrigerated cargo, 135
    container, 31 roll-on/roll-off cargo, 5 railcar carrier, 6 barge carrier, 11
    oil tanker, 21 chemical tanker, 22 liquefied gas tanker, 5 combination
    ore/oil, 14 combination bulk, 15 bulk; note - the German register includes
    ships of the former East and West Germany; during 1991 the fleet underwent
    major restructuring as surplus ships were sold off
Civil air:
    239 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    462 total, 455 usable; 242 with permanent-surface runways; 4 with runways
    over 3,659 m; 40 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 55 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    West - highly developed, modern telecommunication service to all parts of
    the country; fully adequate in all respects; 40,300,000 telephones;
    intensively developed, highly redundant cable and radio relay networks, all
    completely automatic; broadcast stations - 80 AM, 470 FM, 225 (6,000
    repeaters) TV; 6 submarine coaxial cables; satellite earth stations - 12
    Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT antennas, 2 Indian Ocean INTELSAT antennas,
    EUTELSAT, and domestic systems; 2 HF radiocommunication centers;
    tropospheric links East - badly needs modernization; 3,970,000 telephones;
    broadcast stations - 23 AM, 17 FM, 21 TV (15 Soviet TV repeaters); 6,181,860
    TVs; 6,700,000 radios; 1 satellite earth station operating in INTELSAT and
    Intersputnik systems

:Germany Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Navy, Air Force, Federal Border Police
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 20,300,359; 17,612,677 fit for military service; 414,330 reach
    military age (18) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $39.5 billion, 2.5% of GDP (1991)

:Ghana Geography

Total area:
    238,540 km2
Land area:
    230,020 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than Oregon
Land boundaries:
    2,093 km; Burkina 548 km, Ivory Coast 668 km, Togo 877 km
Coastline:
    539 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    24 nm
  Continental shelf:
    200 nm
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    tropical; warm and comparatively dry along southeast coast; hot and humid in
    southwest; hot and dry in north
Terrain:
    mostly low plains with dissected plateau in south-central area
Natural resources:
    gold, timber, industrial diamonds, bauxite, manganese, fish, rubber
Land use:
    arable land 5%; permanent crops 7%; meadows and pastures 15%; forest and
    woodland 37%; other 36%; includes irrigated NEGL%
Environment:
    recent drought in north severely affecting marginal agricultural activities;
    deforestation; overgrazing; soil erosion; dry, northeasterly harmattan wind
    (January to March)
Note:
    Lake Volta is the world's largest artificial lake

:Ghana People

Population:
    16,185,351 (July 1992), growth rate 3.1% (1992)
Birth rate:
    45 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    13 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    - 1 migrant/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    86 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    53 years male, 57 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    6.3 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Ghanaian(s); adjective - Ghanaian
Ethnic divisions:
    black African 99.8% (major tribes - Akan 44%, Moshi-Dagomba 16%, Ewe 13%, Ga
    8%), European and other 0.2%
Religions:
    indigenous beliefs 38%, Muslim 30%, Christian 24%, other 8%
Languages:
    English (official); African languages include Akan, Moshi-Dagomba, Ewe, and
    Ga
Literacy:
    60% (male 70%, female 51%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    3,700,000; agriculture and fishing 54.7%, industry 18.7%, sales and clerical
    15.2%, services, transportation, and communications 7.7%, professional 3.7%;
    48% of population of working age (1983)
Organized labor:
    467,000 (about 13% of labor force)

:Ghana Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Ghana
Type:
    military
Capital:
    Accra
Administrative divisions:
    10 regions; Ashanti, Brong-Ahafo, Central, Eastern, Greater Accra, Northern,
    Upper East, Upper West, Volta, Western
Independence:
    6 March 1957 (from UK, formerly Gold Coast)
Constitution:
    24 September 1979; suspended 31 December 1981
Legal system:
    based on English common law and customary law; has not accepted compulsory
    ICJ jurisdiction
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 6 March (1957)
Executive branch:
    chairman of the Provisional National Defense Council (PNDC), PNDC, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    unicameral National Assembly dissolved after 31 December 1981 coup, and
    legislative powers were assumed by the Provisional National Defense Council
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State and Head of Government:
    Chairman of the Provisional National Defense Council Flt. Lt. (Ret.) Jerry
    John RAWLINGS (since 31 December 1981)
Political parties and leaders:
    none; political parties outlawed after 31 December 1981 coup
Suffrage:
    none
Elections:
    no national elections; district assembly elections held in 1988-89
Member of:
    ACP, AfDB, C, CCC, ECA, ECOWAS, FAO, G-24, G-77, GATT, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
    IDA, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, IOM (observer), ISO,
    ITU, LORCS, NAM, OAU, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNIFIL, UNIIMOG, UPU, WCL,
    WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Dr. Joseph ABBEY; Chancery at 3512 International Drive NW,
    Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 686-4520; there is a Ghanaian
    Consulate General in New York
  US:
    Ambassador Raymond C. EWING; Embassy at Ring Road East, East of Danquah
    Circle, Accra (mailing address is P. O. Box 194, Accra); telephone [233]
    (21) 775348, 775349
Flag:
    three equal horizontal bands of red (top), yellow, and green with a large
    black five-pointed star centered in the gold band; uses the popular
    pan-African colors of Ethiopia; similar to the flag of Bolivia, which has a
    coat of arms centered in the yellow band

:Ghana Economy

Overview:
    Supported by substantial international assistance, Ghana has been
    implementing a steady economic rebuilding program since 1983, including
    moves toward privatization and relaxation of government controls. Heavily
    dependent on cocoa, gold, and timber exports, economic growth so far has not
    spread substantially to other areas of the economy. The costs of sending
    peacekeeping forces to Liberia and preparing for the transition to a
    democratic government have been boosting government expenditures and
    undercutting structural adjustment reforms. Ghana opened a stock exchange in
    1990. Much of the economic improvement in 1991 was caused by favorable
    weather (following a severe drought the previous year) that led to plentiful
    harvests in Ghana's agriculturally based economy.
GDP:
    $6.2 billion; per capita $400; real growth rate 5% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    10% (1991 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    10% (1991)
Budget:
    revenues $821 million; expenditures $782 million, including capital
    expenditures of $151 million (1990 est.)
Exports:
    $843 million (f.o.b., 1991 est.)
  commodities:
    cocoa 45%, gold, timber, tuna, bauxite, and aluminum
  partners:
    US 23%, UK, other EC
Imports:
    $1.2 billion (c.i.f., 1991 est.)
  commodities:
    petroleum 16%, consumer goods, foods, intermediate goods, capital equipment
  partners:
    US 10%, UK, FRG, France, Japan, South Korea, GDR
External debt:
    $3.1 billion (1990 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 7.4% in manufacturing (1989); accounts for almost 1.5% of GDP
Electricity:
    1,180,000 kW capacity; 4,140 million kWh produced, 265 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    mining, lumbering, light manufacturing, fishing, aluminum, food processing
Agriculture:
    accounts for more than 50% of GDP (including fishing and forestry); the
    major cash crop is cocoa; other principal crops - rice, coffee, cassava,
    peanuts, corn, shea nuts, timber; normally self-sufficient in food
Illicit drugs:
    illicit producer of cannabis for the international drug trade
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $455 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $2.6 billion; OPEC
    bilateral aid (1979-89), $78 million; Communist countries (1970-89), $106
    million
Currency:
    cedi (plural - cedis); 1 cedi (C) = 100 pesewas
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Ghana Communications

Railroads:
    953 km, all 1.067-meter gauge; 32 km double track; railroads undergoing
    major renovation
Highways:
    32,250 km total; 6,084 km concrete or bituminous surface, 26,166 km gravel,
    laterite, and improved earth surfaces
Inland waterways:
    Volta, Ankobra, and Tano Rivers provide 168 km of perennial navigation for
    launches and lighters; Lake Volta provides 1,125 km of arterial and feeder
    waterways
Pipelines:
    none
Ports:
    Tema, Takoradi
Merchant marine:
    5 cargo and 1 refrigerated cargo (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 53,435
    GRT/69,167 DWT
Civil air:
    8 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    10 total, 9 usable; 5 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways over
    3,659 m; 1 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 7 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    poor to fair system handled primarily by microwave links; 42,300 telephones;
    broadcast stations - 4 AM, 1 FM, 4 (8 translators) TV; 1 Atlantic Ocean
    INTELSAT earth station

:Ghana Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Navy, Air Force, National Police Force, National Civil Defense
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 3,661,558; 2,049,842 fit for military service; 170,742 reach
    military age (18) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $30 million, less than 1% of GNP (1989 est.)

:Gibraltar Geography

Total area:
    6.5 km2
Land area:
    6.5 km2
Comparative area:
    about 11 times the size of the Mall in Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    1.2 km; Spain 1.2 km
Coastline:
    12 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive fishing zone:
    3 nm
  Territorial sea:
    3 nm
Disputes:
    source of occasional friction between Spain and the UK
Climate:
    Mediterranean with mild winters and warm summers
Terrain:
    a narrow coastal lowland borders The Rock
Natural resources:
    negligible
Land use:
    arable land 0%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 0%; forest and
    woodland 0%; other 100%
Environment:
    natural freshwater sources are meager, so large water catchments (concrete
    or natural rock) collect rain water
Note:
    strategic location on Strait of Gibraltar that links the North Atlantic
    Ocean and Mediterranean Sea

:Gibraltar People

Population:
    29,651 (July 1992), growth rate 0.1% (1992)
Birth rate:
    18 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    8 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    - 9 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    6 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    72 years male, 79 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    2.5 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Gibraltarian(s); adjective - Gibraltar
Ethnic divisions:
    mostly Italian, English, Maltese, Portuguese, and Spanish descent
Religions:
    Roman Catholic 74%, Protestant 11% (Church of England 8%, other 3%), Moslem
    8%, Jewish 2%, none or other 5% (1981)
Languages:
    English and Spanish are primary languages; Italian, Portuguese, and Russian
    also spoken; English used in the schools and for official purposes
Literacy:
    NA% (male NA%, female NA%)
Labor force:
    about 14,800 (including non-Gibraltar laborers); UK military establishments
    and civil government employ nearly 50% of the labor force
Organized labor:
    over 6,000

:Gibraltar Government

Long-form name:
    none
Digraph:
    f Assembly *** last held on 24 March 1988 (next to be held March 1992);
    results - percent of vote by party NA; seats - (18 total, 15 elected) SL 8,
    GCL/AACR 7
Type:
    dependent territory of the UK
Capital:
    Gibraltar
Administrative divisions:
    none (dependent territory of the UK)
Independence:
    none (dependent territory of the UK)
Constitution:
    30 May 1969
Legal system:
    English law
National holiday:
    Commonwealth Day (second Monday of March)
Executive branch:
    British monarch, governor, chief minister, Gibraltar Council, Council of
    Ministers (cabinet)
Legislative branch:
    unicameral House of Assembly
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court, Court of Appeal
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952), represented by Governor and
    Commander in Chief Adm. Sir Derek REFFELL (since NA 1989)
  Head of Government:
    Chief Minister Joe BOSSANO (since 25 March 1988)
Political parties and leaders:
    Socialist Labor Party (SL), Joe BOSSANO; Gibraltar Labor Party/Association
    for the Advancement of Civil Rights (GCL/AACR), leader NA; Gibraltar Social
    Democrats, Peter CARUANA; Gibraltar National Party, Joe GARCIA
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18, plus other UK subjects resident six months or more
Elections:
  House of Assembly:
    last held on 24 March 1988 (next to be held March 1992); results - percent
    of vote by party NA; seats - (18 total, 15 elected) SL 8, GCL/AACR 7
Other political or pressure groups:
    Housewives Association, Chamber of Commerce, Gibraltar Representatives
    Organization
Diplomatic representation:
    none (dependent territory of the UK)
Flag:
    two horizontal bands of white (top, double width) and red with a
    three-towered red castle in the center of the white band; hanging from the
    castle gate is a gold key centered in the red band

:Gibraltar Economy

Overview:
    The economy depends heavily on British defense expenditures, revenue from
    tourists, fees for services to shipping, and revenues from banking and
    finance activities. Because more than 70% of the economy is in the public
    sector, changes in government spending have a major impact on the level of
    employment. Construction workers are particularly affected when government
    expenditures are cut.
GNP:
    exchange rate conversion - $182 million, per capita $4,600; real growth rate
    5% (FY87)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    3.6% (1988)
Unemployment rate:
    NA%
Budget:
    revenues $136 million; expenditures $139 million, including capital
    expenditures of NA (FY88)
Exports:
    $82 million (f.o.b., 1988)
  commodities:
    (principally reexports) petroleum 51%, manufactured goods 41%, other 8%
  partners:
    UK, Morocco, Portugal, Netherlands, Spain, US, FRG
Imports:
    $258 million (c.i.f., 1988)
  commodities:
    fuels, manufactured goods, and foodstuffs
  partners:
    UK, Spain, Japan, Netherlands
External debt:
    $318 million (1987)
Industrial production:
    growth rate NA%
Electricity:
    47,000 kW capacity; 200 million kWh produced, 6,670 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    tourism, banking and finance, construction, commerce; support to large UK
    naval and air bases; transit trade and supply depot in the port; light
    manufacturing of tobacco, roasted coffee, ice, mineral waters, candy, beer,
    and canned fish
Agriculture:
    none
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-88), $0.8 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $188 million
Currency:
    Gibraltar pound (plural - pounds); 1 Gibraltar pound (#G) = 100 pence
Exchange rates:
    Gibraltar pounds (#G) per US$1 - 0.5799 (March 1992), 0.5652 (1991), 0.5603
    (1990), 0.6099 (1989), 0.5614 (1988), 0.6102 (1987); note - the Gibraltar
    pound is at par with the British pound
Fiscal year:
    1 July - 30 June

:Gibraltar Communications

Railroads:
    1.000-meter-gauge system in dockyard area only
Highways:
    50 km, mostly good bitumen and concrete
Pipelines:
    none
Ports:
    Gibraltar
Merchant marine:
    21 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 795,356 GRT/1,490,737 DWT; includes 5
    cargo, 2 refrigerated cargo, 1 container, 6 petroleum tanker, 1 chemical
    tanker, 6 bulk; note - a flag of convenience registry
Civil air:
    1 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    1 with permanent-surface runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    adequate, automatic domestic system and adequate international
    radiocommunication and microwave facilities; 9,400 telephones; broadcast
    stations - 1 AM, 6 FM, 4 TV; 1 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT earth station

:Gibraltar Defense Forces

Branches:
    British Army, Royal Navy, Royal Air Force
Note:
    defense is the responsibility of the UK

:Glorioso Islands Geography

Total area:
    5 km2
Land area:
    5 km2; includes Ile Glorieuse, Ile du Lys, Verte Rocks, Wreck Rock, and
    South Rock
Comparative area:
    about 8.5 times the size of the Mall in Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    35.2 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    12 nm
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    claimed by Madagascar
Climate:
    tropical
Terrain:
    undetermined
Natural resources:
    guano, coconuts
Land use:
    arable land 0%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 0%; forest and
    woodland 0%; other - lush vegetation and coconut palms 100%
Environment:
    subject to periodic cyclones
Note:
    located in the Indian Ocean just north of the Mozambique Channel between
    Africa and Madagascar

:Glorioso Islands People

Population:
    uninhabited

:Glorioso Islands Government

Long-form name:
    none
Type:
    French possession administered by Commissioner of the Republic Jacques
    DEWATRE, resident in Reunion
Capital:
    none; administered by France from Reunion

:Glorioso Islands Economy

Overview:
    no economic activity

:Glorioso Islands Communications

Ports:
    none; offshore anchorage only
Airports:
    1 with runways 1,220-2,439 m

:Glorioso Islands Defense Forces

Note:
    defense is the responsibility of France

:Greece Geography

Total area:
    131,940 km2
Land area:
    130,800 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than Alabama
Land boundaries:
    1,210 km; Albania 282 km, Bulgaria 494 km, Turkey 206 km, Macedonia 228 km
Coastline:
    13,676 km
Maritime claims:
  Continental shelf:
    200 m (depth) or to depth of exploitation
  Territorial sea:
    6 nm, but Greece has threatened to claim 12 nm
Disputes:
    air, continental shelf, and territorial water disputes with Turkey in Aegean
    Sea; Cyprus question
Climate:
    temperate; mild, wet winters; hot, dry summers
Terrain:
    mostly mountains with ranges extending into sea as peninsulas or chains of
    islands
Natural resources:
    bauxite, lignite, magnesite, crude oil, marble
Land use:
    arable land 23%; permanent crops 8%; meadows and pastures 40%; forest and
    woodland 20%; other 9%; includes irrigated 7%
Environment:
    subject to severe earthquakes; air pollution; archipelago of 2,000 islands
Note:
    strategic location dominating the Aegean Sea and southern approach to
    Turkish Straits

:Greece People

Population:
    10,064,250 (July 1992), growth rate 0.2% (1992)
Birth rate:
    11 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    9 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    10 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    75 years male, 81 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    1.5 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Greek(s); adjective - Greek
Ethnic divisions:
    Greek 98%, other 2%; note - the Greek Government states there are no ethnic
    divisions in Greece
Religions:
    Greek Orthodox 98%, Muslim 1.3%, other 0.7%
Languages:
    Greek (official); English and French widely understood
Literacy:
    93% (male 98%, female 89%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    3,657,000; services 44%, agriculture 27%, manufacturing and mining 20%,
    construction 6% (1988)
Organized labor:
    10-15% of total labor force, 20-25% of urban labor force

:Greece Government

Long-form name:
    Hellenic Republic
Type:
    presidential parliamentary government; monarchy rejected by referendum 8
    December 1974
Capital:
    Athens
Administrative divisions:
    52 departments (nomoi, singular - nomos); Aitolia kai Akarnania, Akhaia,
    Argolis, Arkadhia, Arta, Attiki, Dhodhekanisos, Dhrama, Evritania, Evros,
    Evvoia, Florina, Fokis, Fthiotis, Grevena, Ilia, Imathia, Ioannina,
    Iraklion, Kardhitsa, Kastoria, Kavala, Kefallinia, Kerkira, Khalkidhiki,
    Khania, Khios, Kikladhes, Kilkis, Korinthia, Kozani, Lakonia, Larisa,
    Lasithi, Lesvos, Levkas, Magnisia, Messinia, Pella, Pieria, Piraievs,
    Preveza, Rethimni, Rodhopi, Samos, Serrai, Thesprotia, Thessaloniki,
    Trikala, Voiotia, Xanthi, Zakinthos, autonomous region: Agios Oros (Mt.
    Athos)
Independence:
    1829 (from the Ottoman Empire)
Constitution:
    11 June 1975
Legal system:
    based on codified Roman law; judiciary divided into civil, criminal, and
    administrative courts
National holiday:
    Independence Day (proclamation of the war of independence), 25 March (1821)
Executive branch:
    president, prime minister, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Greek Chamber of Deputies (Vouli ton Ellinon)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Konstantinos KARAMANLIS (since 5 May 1990); -
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Konstantinos MITSOTAKIS (since 11 April 1990)
Political parties and leaders:
    New Democracy (ND; conservative), Konstantinos MITSOTAKIS; Panhellenic
    Socialist Movement (PASOK), Andreas PAPANDREOU; Left Alliance, Maria
    DAMANAKI; Democratic Renewal (DEANA), Konstantinos STEFANOPOULOS; Communist
    Party (KKE), Aleka PAPARIGA; Ecologist-Alternative List, leader rotates
Suffrage:
    universal and compulsory at age 18
Elections:
  Chamber of Deputies:
    last held 8 April 1990 (next to be held April 1994); results - ND 46.89%,
    PASOK 38.62%, Left Alliance 10.27%, PASOK/Left Alliance 1.02%,
    Ecologist-Alternative List 0.77%, DEANA 0.67%, Muslim independents 0.5%;
    seats - (300 total) ND 150, PASOK 123, Left Alliance 19, PASOK-Left Alliance
    4, Muslim independents 2, DEANA 1, Ecologist-Alternative List 1; note - one
    DEANA deputy joined ND in July, giving ND 151 seats; in November, a special
    electoral court ruled in favor of ND on a contested seat, at PASOK'S
    expense; PASOK and the Left Alliance divided their four joint mandates
    evenly, and the seven KKE deputies split off from the Left Alliance; new
    configuration: ND 152, PASOK 124, Left Alliance 14, KKE 7, others unchanged
  President:
    last held 4 May 1990 (next to be held May 1995); results - Konstantinos
    KARAMANLIS was elected by Parliament

:Greece Government

Communists:
    an estimated 60,000 members and sympathizers
Member of:
    AG, BIS, CCC, CE, CERN, COCOM, CSCE, EBRD, EC, ECE, EIB, FAO, G-6, GATT,
    IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INMARSAT,
    INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, LORCS, NACC, NAM (guest), NATO, NEA,
    NSG, OAS (observer), OECD, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UPU, WHO,
    WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Christos ZACHARAKIS; Chancery at 2221 Massachusetts Avenue NW,
    Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 939-5800; there are Greek Consulates
    General in Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Los Angeles, New York, and San
    Francisco, and a Consulate in New Orleans
  US:
    Ambassador Michael G. SOTIRHOS; Embassy at 91 Vasilissis Sophias Boulevard,
    10160 Athens (mailing address is APO AE 09842; telephone [30] (1) 721-2951
    or 721-8401; there is a US Consulate General in Thessaloniki
Flag:
    nine equal horizontal stripes of blue alternating with white; there is a
    blue square in the upper hoist-side corner bearing a white cross; the cross
    symbolizes Greek Orthodoxy, the established religion of the country

:Greece Economy

Overview:
    Greece has a mixed capitalistic economy with the basic entrepreneurial
    system overlaid in 1981-89 by a socialist government that enlarged the
    public sector from 55% of GDP in 1981 to about 70% when Prime Minister
    Mitsotakis took office. Tourism continues as a major industry, and
    agriculture - although handicapped by geographic limitations and fragmented,
    small farms - is self-sufficient except for meat, dairy products, and animal
    feedstuffs. The Mitsotakis government inherited several severe economic
    problems from the preceding socialist and caretaker administrations, which
    had neglected the runaway budget deficit, a ballooning current account
    deficit, and accelerating inflation. In early 1991, the government secured a
    $2.5 billion assistance package from the EC under the strictest terms yet
    imposed on a member country, as the EC finally ran out of patience with
    Greece's failure to put its financial affairs in order. Over the next three
    years, Athens must bring inflation down to 7%, cut the current account
    deficit and central government borrowing as a percentage of GDP, slash
    public-sector employment by 10%, curb public-sector pay raises, and broaden
    the tax base.
GDP:
    purchasing power equivalent - $77.6 billion, per capita $7,730; real growth
    rate 1.0% (1991)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    17.8% (1991)
Unemployment rate:
    8.6% (1991)
Budget:
    revenues $24.0 billion; expenditures $33.0 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $3.3 billion (1991)
Exports:
    $6.4 billion (f.o.b., 1990)
  commodities:
    manufactured goods 48%, food and beverages 22%, fuels and lubricants 6%
  partners:
    Germany 22%, Italy 17%, France 10%, UK 7%, US 6%
Imports:
    $18.7 billion (c.i.f., 1990)
  commodities:
    consumer goods 33%, machinery 17%, foodstuffs 12%, fuels and lubricants 8%
  partners:
    Germany 21%, Italy 15%, Netherlands 11%, France 8%, UK 5%
External debt:
    $25.5 billion (1990)
Industrial production:
    growth rate - 2.4% (1990); accounts for 22% of GDP
Electricity:
    10,500,000 kW capacity; 36,420 million kWh produced, 3,630 kWh per capita
    (1991)
Industries:
    food and tobacco processing, textiles, chemicals, metal products, tourism,
    mining, petroleum
Agriculture:
    including fishing and forestry, accounts for 17% of GDP and 27% of the labor
    force; principal products - wheat, corn, barley, sugar beets, olives,
    tomatoes, wine, tobacco, potatoes; self-sufficient in food except meat,
    dairy products, and animal feedstuffs; fish catch of 115,000 metric tons in
    1988
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-81), $525 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $1,390 million

:Greece Economy

Currency:
    drachma (plural - drachmas); 1 drachma (Dr) = 100 lepta
Exchange rates:
    drachma (Dr) per US$1 - 182.33 (January 1992), 182.27 (1991), 158.51 (1990),
    162.42 (1989), 141.86 (1988), 135.43 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Greece Communications

Railroads:
    2,479 km total; 1,565 km 1.435-meter standard gauge, of which 36 km
    electrified and 100 km double track, 892 km 1.000-meter gauge; 22 km
    0.750-meter narrow gauge; all government owned
Highways:
    38,938 km total; 16,090 km paved, 13,676 km crushed stone and gravel, 5,632
    km improved earth, 3,540 km unimproved earth
Inland waterways:
    80 km; system consists of three coastal canals and three unconnected rivers
Pipelines:
    crude oil 26 km; petroleum products 547 km
Ports:
    Piraievs, Thessaloniki
Merchant marine:
    977 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 23,450,910 GRT/42,934,863 DWT;
    includes 15 passenger, 66 short-sea passenger, 2 passenger-cargo, 136 cargo,
    24 container, 15 roll-on/roll-off cargo, 18 refrigerated cargo, 1 vehicle
    carrier, 196 petroleum tanker, 18 chemical tanker, 9 liquefied gas, 37
    combination ore/oil, 3 specialized tanker, 417 bulk, 19 combination bulk, 1
    livestock carrier; note - ethnic Greeks also own large numbers of ships
    under the registry of Liberia, Panama, Cyprus, Malta, and The Bahamas
Civil air:
    39 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    77 total, 77 usable; 77 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 19 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 23 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    adequate, modern networks reach all areas; 4,080,000 telephones; microwave
    carries most traffic; extensive open-wire network; submarine cables to
    off-shore islands; broadcast stations - 29 AM, 17 (20 repeaters) FM, 361 TV;
    tropospheric links, 8 submarine cables; 1 satellite earth station operating
    in INTELSAT (1 Atlantic Ocean and 1 Indian Ocean antenna), and EUTELSAT
    systems

:Greece Defense Forces

Branches:
    Hellenic Army, Hellenic Navy, Hellenic Air Force, Police
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 2,453,756; 1,883,152 fit for military service; 73,913 reach
    military age (21) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $3.8 billion, 5.6% of GDP (1991)

:Greenland Geography

Total area:
    2,175,600 km2
Land area:
    341,700 km2 (ice free)
Comparative area:
    slightly more than three times the size of Texas
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    44,087 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive fishing zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    3 nm
Disputes:
    Denmark has challenged Norway's maritime claims between Greenland and Jan
    Mayen
Climate:
    arctic to subarctic; cool summers, cold winters
Terrain:
    flat to gradually sloping icecap covers all but a narrow, mountainous,
    barren, rocky coast
Natural resources:
    zinc, lead, iron ore, coal, molybdenum, cryolite, uranium, fish
Land use:
    arable land 0%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 1%; forest and
    woodland NEGL%; other 99%
Environment:
    sparse population confined to small settlements along coast; continuous
    permafrost over northern two-thirds of the island
Note:
    dominates North Atlantic Ocean between North America and Europe

:Greenland People

Population:
    57,407 (July 1992), growth rate 1.1% (1992)
Birth rate:
    19 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    8 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    27 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    63 years male, 69 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    2.2 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Greenlander(s); adjective - Greenlandic
Ethnic divisions:
    Greenlander (Eskimos and Greenland-born Caucasians) 86%, Danish 14%
Religions:
    Evangelical Lutheran
Languages:
    Eskimo dialects, Danish
Literacy:
    NA% (male NA%, female NA%)
Labor force:
    22,800; largely engaged in fishing, hunting, sheep breeding
Organized labor:
    NA

:Greenland Government

Long-form name:
    none
Type:
    part of the Danish realm; self-governing overseas administrative division
Capital:
    Nuuk (Godthab)
Administrative divisions:
    3 municipalities (kommuner, - singular - kommun); - Nordgronland,
    Ostgrnland, Vestgronland
Independence:
    part of the Danish realm; self-governing overseas administrative division
Constitution:
    Danish
Legal system:
    Danish
National holiday:
    Birthday of the Queen, 16 April (1940)
Executive branch:
    Danish monarch, high commissioner, home rule chairman, prime minister,
    Cabinet (Landsstyre)
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Parliament (Landsting)
Judicial branch:
    High Court (Landsret)
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Queen MARGRETHE II (since 14 January 1972), represented by High Commissioner
    Bent KLINTE (since NA)
  Head of Government:
    Home Rule Chairman Lars Emil JOHANSEN (since 15 March 1991)
Political parties and leaders:
    two-party ruling coalition - Siumut (a moderate socialist party that
    advocates more distinct Greenlandic identity and greater autonomy from
    Denmark), Lars Emil JOHANSEN, chairman; - Inuit - Ataqatigiit - (IA; - a -
    Marxist-Leninist party that favors complete independence from Denmark rather
    than home rule), leader NA; Atassut Party (a more conservative party that
    favors continuing close relations with Denmark), leader NA; Polar Party
    (conservative-Greenland nationalist), leader NA; Center Party (a new
    nonsocialist protest party), leader NA
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  Danish Folketing:
    last held on 12 December 1990 (next to be held by December 1994); Greenland
    elects two representatives to the Folketing; results - percent of vote by
    party NA; seats - (2 total) Siumut 1, Atassut 1
  Landsting:
    last held on 5 March 1991 (next to be held 5 March 1995); results - percent
    of vote by party NA; seats - (27 total) Siumut 11, Atassut Party 8, Inuit
    Ataqatigiit 5, Center Party 2, Polar Party 1
Member of:
    NC
Diplomatic representation:
    none (self-governing overseas administrative division of Denmark)
Flag:
    two equal horizontal bands of white (top) and red with a large disk slightly
    to the hoist side of center - the top half of the disk is red, the bottom
    half is white

:Greenland Economy

Overview:
    Over the past 25 years, the economy has changed from one based on
    subsistence whaling, hunting, and fishing to one dependent on foreign trade.
    Fishing is still the most important industry, accounting for over 75% of
    exports and about 25% of the population's income. Maintenance of a social
    welfare system similar to Denmark's has given the public sector a dominant
    role in the economy. In 1990, the economy became critically dependent on
    shrimp exports and on an annual subsidy (now about $500 million) from the
    Danish Government because cod exports dropped off and commercial mineral
    production stopped. As of 1992, the government also has taken control of the
    health sector from Denmark. The new Home Rule government installed in March
    1991 has decided to end much of the central control of the economy and to
    open it wider to competitive forces.
GNP:
    purchasing power equivalent - $500 million, per capita $9,000; real growth
    rate 5% (1988)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    l.6% (1991)
Unemployment rate:
    9% (1990 est.)
Budget:
    revenues $381 million; expenditures $381 million, including capital
    expenditures of $36 million (1989)
Exports:
    $435 million (f.o.b., 1990 est.)
  commodities:
    fish and fish products 83%, metallic ores and concentrates 13%
  partners:
    Denmark 79%, Benelux 9%, Germany 5%
Imports:
    $420 million (c.i.f., 1990 est.)
  commodities:
    manufactured goods 28%, machinery and transport equipment 24%, food and live
    animals 12.4%, petroleum and petroleum products 12%
  partners:
    Denmark 65%, Norway 8.8%, US 4.6%, Germany 3.8%, Japan 3.8%, Sweden 2.4%
External debt:
    $480 million (1990 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate NA%
Electricity:
    84,000 kW capacity; 176 million kWh produced, 3,180 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    fish processing (mainly shrimp), potential for platinum and gold mining,
    handicrafts, shipyards
Agriculture:
    sector dominated by fishing and sheep raising; crops limited to forage and
    small garden vegetables; 1988 fish catch of 133,500 metric tons
Economic aid:
    none
Currency:
    Danish krone (plural - kroner); 1 Danish krone (DKr) = 100 re
Exchange rates:
    Danish kroner (DKr) per US$1 - 6.447 (March 1992), 6.396 (1991), 6.189
    (1990), 7.310 (1989), 6.732 (1988), 6.840 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Greenland Communications

Highways:
    80 km
Ports:
    Kangerluarsoruseq (Faeringehavn), Paamiut (Frederikshaab), Nuuk (Godthaab),
    Sisimiut (Holsteinsborg), Julianehaab, Maarmorilik, North Star Bay
Merchant marine:
    1 refrigerated cargo (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 1,021 GRT/1,778 DWT; note
    - operates under the registry of Denmark
Civil air:
    2 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    11 total, 8 usable; 5 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways over
    3,659 m; 2 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 2 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    adequate domestic and international service provided by cables and
    microwave; 17,900 telephones; broadcast stations - 5 AM, 7 (35 repeaters)
    FM, 4 (9 repeaters) TV; 2 coaxial submarine cables; 1 Atlantic Ocean
    INTELSAT earth station

:Greenland Defense Forces

Note:
    defense is responsibility of Denmark

:Grenada Geography

Total area:
    340 km2
Land area:
    340 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly less than twice the size of Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    121 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    tropical; tempered by northeast trade winds
Terrain:
    volcanic in origin with central mountains
Natural resources:
    timber, tropical fruit, deepwater harbors
Land use:
    arable land 15%; permanent crops 26%; meadows and pastures 3%; forest and
    woodland 9%; other 47%
Environment:
    lies on edge of hurricane belt; hurricane season lasts from June to November
Note:
    islands of the Grenadines group are divided politically with Saint Vincent
    and the Grenadines

:Grenada People

Population:
    83,556 (July 1992), growth rate - 0.3% (1992)
Birth rate:
    34 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    7 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    - 30 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    28 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    69 years male, 74 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    4.6 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Grenadian(s); adjective - Grenadian
Ethnic divisions:
    mainly of black African descent
Religions:
    largely Roman Catholic; Anglican; other Protestant sects
Languages:
    English (official); some French patois
Literacy:
    98% (male 98%, female 98%) age 15 and over having ever attended school
    (1970)
Labor force:
    36,000; services 31%, agriculture 24%, construction 8%, manufacturing 5%,
    other 32% (1985)
Organized labor:
    20% of labor force

:Grenada Government

Long-form name:
    none
Type:
    parliamentary democracy
Capital:
    Saint George's
Administrative divisions:
    6 parishes and 1 dependency*; Carriacou and Little Martinique*, Saint
    Andrew, Saint David, Saint George, Saint John, Saint Mark, Saint Patrick
Independence:
    7 February 1974 (from UK)
Constitution:
    19 December 1973
Legal system:
    based on English common law
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 7 February (1974)
Executive branch:
    British monarch, governor general, prime minister, Ministers of Government
    (cabinet)
Legislative branch:
    bicameral Parliament consists of an upper house or Senate and a lower house
    or House of Representatives
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952), represented by Governor General
    Sir Paul SCOON (since 30 September 1978)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Nicholas BRATHWAITE (since 13 March 1990)
Political parties and leaders:
    National Democratic Congress (NDC), Nicholas BRATHWAITE; Grenada United
    Labor Party (GULP), Sir Eric GAIRY; The National Party (TNP), Ben JONES; New
    National Party (NNP), Keith MITCHELL; Maurice Bishop Patriotic Movement
    (MBPM), Terrence MARRYSHOW; New Jewel Movement (NJM), Bernard COARD
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  House of Representatives:
    last held on 13 March 1990 (next to be held by NA March 1996); results -
    percent of vote by party NA; seats - (15 total) NDC 8, GULP 3, TNP 2, NNP 2
Member of:
    ACP, C, CARICOM, CDB, ECLAC, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, IDA, IFAD, IFC,
    ILO, IMF, INTERPOL, IOC, ITU, LAES, LORCS, NAM, OAS, OECS, OPANAL, UN,
    UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WHO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Denneth MODESTE; Chancery at 1701 New Hampshire Avenue NW,
    Washington, DC 20009; telephone (202) 265-2561; there is a Grenadian
    Consulate General in New York
  US:
    Charge d'Affaires Annette VELER; Embassy at Ross Point Inn, Saint George's
    (mailing address is P. O. Box 54, Saint George's); telephone (809) 444-1173
    through 1178

:Grenada Government

Flag:
    a rectangle divided diagonally into yellow triangles (top and bottom) and
    green triangles (hoist side and outer side) with a red border around the
    flag; there are seven yellow five-pointed stars with three centered in the
    top red border, three centered in the bottom red border, and one on a red
    disk superimposed at the center of the flag; there is also a symbolic nutmeg
    pod on the hoist-side triangle (Grenada is the world's second-largest
    producer of nutmeg, after Indonesia); the seven stars represent the seven
    administrative divisions

:Grenada Economy

Overview:
    The economy is essentially agricultural and centers on the traditional
    production of spices and tropical plants. Agriculture accounts for about 16%
    of GDP and 80% of exports and employs 24% of the labor force. Tourism is the
    leading foreign exchange earner, followed by agricultural exports.
    Manufacturing remains relatively undeveloped, but is expected to grow, given
    a more favorable private investment climate since 1983. Despite an
    impressive average annual growth rate for the economy of 5.5% during the
    period 1986-91, unemployment remains high at about 25%.
GDP:
    purchasing power equivalent - $238 million, per capita $2,800 (1989); real
    growth rate 5.2% (1990 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    7.0% (1990)
Unemployment rate:
    25% (1990 est.)
Budget:
    revenues $54.9 million; expenditures $77.6 million, including capital
    expenditures of $16.6 million (1990 est.)
Exports:
    $26.0 million (f.o.b., 1990 est.)
  commodities:
    nutmeg 36%, cocoa beans 9%, bananas 14%, mace 8%, textiles 5%
  partners:
    US 12%, UK, FRG, Netherlands, Trinidad and Tobago (1989)
Imports:
    $105.0 million (f.o.b., 1989 est.)
  commodities:
    food 25%, manufactured goods 22%, machinery 20%, chemicals 10%, fuel 6%
    (1989)
  partners:
    US 29%, UK, Trinidad and Tobago, Japan, Canada (1989)
External debt:
    $90 million (1990 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 5.8% (1989 est.); accounts for 6% of GDP
Electricity:
    12,500 kW capacity; 26 million kWh produced, 310 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    food and beverage, textile, light assembly operations, tourism, construction
Agriculture:
    accounts for 16% of GDP and 80% of exports; bananas, cocoa, nutmeg, and mace
    account for two-thirds of total crop production; world's second-largest
    producer and fourth-largest exporter of nutmeg and mace; small-size farms
    predominate, growing a variety of citrus fruits, avocados, root crops,
    sugarcane, corn, and vegetables
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY84-89), $60 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $70 million;
    Communist countries (1970-89), $32 million
Currency:
    East Caribbean dollar (plural - dollars); 1 EC dollar (EC$) = 100 cents
Exchange rates:
    East Caribbean dollars (EC$) per US$1 - 2.70 (fixed rate since 1976)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Grenada Communications

Highways:
    1,000 km total; 600 km paved, 300 km otherwise improved; 100 km unimproved
Ports:
    Saint George's
Civil air:
    no major transport aircraft
Airports:
    3 total, 3 usable; 2 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways over
    3,659 m; 1 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 1 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    automatic, islandwide telephone system with 5,650 telephones; new SHF radio
    links to Trinidad and Tobago and Saint Vincent; VHF and UHF radio links to
    Trinidad and Carriacou; broadcast stations - 1 AM, no FM, 1 TV

:Grenada Defense Forces

Branches:
    Royal Grenada Police Force, Coast Guard
Manpower availability:
    NA
Defense expenditures:
    $NA, NA% of GDP

:Guadeloupe Geography

Total area:
    1,780 km2
Land area:
    1,760 km2
Comparative area:
    10 times the size of Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    306 km
Maritime claims:
  Continental shelf:
    200 m (depth) or to depth of exploitation
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    subtropical tempered by trade winds; relatively high humidity
Terrain:
    Basse-Terre is volcanic in origin with interior mountains; Grand-Terre is
    low limestone formation
Natural resources:
    cultivable land, beaches, and climate that foster tourism
Land use:
    arable land 18%; permanent crops 5%; meadows and pastures 13%; forest and
    woodland 40%; other 24%; includes irrigated 1%
Environment:
    subject to hurricanes (June to October); La Soufriere is an active volcano
Note:
    located 500 km southeast of Puerto Rico in the Caribbean Sea

:Guadeloupe People

Population:
    409,132 (July 1992), growth rate 2.1% (1992)
Birth rate:
    19 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    6 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    8 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    10 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    74 years male, 80 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    2.0 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Guadeloupian(s); adjective - Guadeloupe
Ethnic divisions:
    black or mulatto 90%; white 5%; East Indian, Lebanese, Chinese less than 5%
Religions:
    Roman Catholic 95%, Hindu and pagan African 5%
Languages:
    French, creole patois
Literacy:
    90% (male 90%, female 91%) age 15 and over can read and write (1982)
Labor force:
    120,000; 53.0% services, government, and commerce, 25.8% industry, 21.2%
    agriculture
Organized labor:
    11% of labor force

:Guadeloupe Government

Long-form name:
    Department of Guadeloupe
Type:
    overseas department of France
Capital:
    Basse-Terre
Administrative divisions:
    none (overseas department of France)
Independence:
    none (overseas department of France)
Constitution:
    28 September 1958 (French Constitution)
Legal system:
    French legal system
National holiday:
    Taking of the Bastille, 14 July (1789)
Executive branch:
    government commissioner
Legislative branch:
    unicameral General Council and unicameral Regional Council
Judicial branch:
    Court of Appeal (Cour d'Appel) with jurisdiction over Guadeloupe, French
    Guiana, and Martinique
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Francois MITTERRAND (since 21 May 1981)
  Head of Government:
    Commissioner of the Republic Jean-Paul PROUST (since November 1989)
Political parties and leaders:
    Rally for the Republic (RPR), Marlene CAPTANT; Communist Party of Guadeloupe
    (PCG), Christian Medard CELESTE; Socialist Party (PSG), Dominique LARIFLA;
    Popular Union for the Liberation of Guadeloupe (UPLG); Independent
    Republicans; Union for French Democracy (UDF); Union for a New Majority
    (UNM)
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  French National Assembly:
    last held on 5 and 12 June 1988 (next to be held June 1994); Guadeloupe
    elects four representatives; results - percent of vote by party NA; seats -
    (4 total) PS 2 seats, RPR 1 seat, PCG 1 seat
  French Senate:
    last held on 5 and 12 June 1988 (next to be held June 1994); Guadeloupe
    elects two representatives; results - percent of vote by party NA; seats -
    (2 total) PCG 1, PS 1
  General Council:
    last held NA 1986 (next to be held by NA 1992); results - percent of vote by
    party NA; seats - (42 total) number of seats by party NA
  Regional Council:
    last held on 16 March 1992 (next to be held by 16 March 1998); results - RPR
    33.1%, PSG 28.7%, PCG 23.8%, UDF 10.7%, other 3.7%; seats - (41 total) RPR
    15, PSG 12, PCG 10, UDF 4
Communists:
    3,000 est.
Other political or pressure groups:
    Popular Union for the Liberation of Guadeloupe (UPLG); Popular Movement for
    Independent Guadeloupe (MPGI); General Union of Guadeloupe Workers (UGTG);
    General Federation of Guadeloupe Workers (CGT-G); Christian Movement for the
    Liberation of Guadeloupe (KLPG)

:Guadeloupe Government

Member of:
    FZ, WCL
Diplomatic representation:
    as an overseas department of France, the interests of Guadeloupe are
    represented in the US by France
Flag:
    the flag of France is used

:Guadeloupe Economy

Overview:
    The economy depends on agriculture, tourism, light industry, and services.
    It is also dependent upon France for large subsidies and imports. Tourism is
    a key industry, with most tourists from the US. In addition, an increasingly
    large number of cruise ships visit the islands. The traditionally important
    sugarcane crop is slowly being replaced by other crops, such as bananas
    (which now supply about 50% of export earnings), eggplant, and flowers.
    Other vegetables and root crops are cultivated for local consumption,
    although Guadeloupe is still dependent on imported food, which comes mainly
    from France. Light industry consists mostly of sugar and rum production.
    Most manufactured goods and fuel are imported. Unemployment is especially
    high among the young.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $1.1 billion, per capita $3,300; real growth rate
    NA% (1987)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    2.3% (1988)
Unemployment rate:
    38% (1987)
Budget:
    revenues $254 million; expenditures $254 million, including capital
    expenditures of NA (1989)
Exports:
    $153 million (f.o.b., 1988)
  commodities:
    bananas, sugar, rum
  partners:
    France 68%, Martinique 22% (1987)
Imports:
    $1.2 billion (c.i.f., 1988)
  commodities:
    vehicles, foodstuffs, clothing and other consumer goods, construction
    materials, petroleum products
  partners:
    France 64%, Italy, FRG, US (1987)
External debt:
    $NA
Industrial production:
    growth rate NA%
Electricity:
    171,500 kW capacity; 441 million kWh produced, 1,279 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    construction, cement, rum, sugar, tourism
Agriculture:
    cash crops - bananas and sugarcane; other products include tropical fruits
    and vegetables; livestock - cattle, pigs, and goats; not self-sufficient in
    food
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-88), $4 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $8.235 billion
Currency:
    French franc (plural - francs); 1 French franc (F) = 100 centimes
Exchange rates:
    French francs (F) per US$1 - 5.6397 (March 1992), 5.6421 (1991), 5.4453
    (1990), 6.3801 (1989), 5.9569 (1988), 6.0107 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Guadeloupe Communications

Railroads:
    privately owned, narrow-gauge plantation lines
Highways:
    1,940 km total; 1,600 km paved, 340 km gravel and earth
Ports:
    Pointe-a-Pitre, Basse-Terre
Civil air:
    2 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    9 total, 9 usable, 8 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways over
    3,659 m; 1 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 1 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    domestic facilities inadequate; 57,300 telephones; interisland radio relay
    to Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, and Martinique; broadcast stations - 2 AM,
    8 FM (30 private stations licensed to broadcast FM), 9 TV; 1 Atlantic Ocean
    INTELSAT ground station

:Guadeloupe Defense Forces

Branches:
    French Forces, Gendarmerie
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 98,069; NA fit for military service
Note:
    defense is responsibility of France

:Guam Geography

Total area:
    541.3 km2
Land area:
    541.3 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly more than three times the size of Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    125.5 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    12 nm
  Continental shelf:
    200 m (depth)
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    tropical marine; generally warm and humid, moderated by northeast trade
    winds; dry season from January to June, rainy season from July to December;
    little seasonal temperature variation
Terrain:
    volcanic origin, surrounded by coral reefs; relatively flat coraline
    limestone plateau (source of most fresh water) with steep coastal cliffs and
    narrow coastal plains in north, low-rising hills in center, mountains in
    south
Natural resources:
    fishing (largely undeveloped), tourism (especially from Japan)
Land use:
    arable land 11%; permanent crops 11%; meadows and pastures 15%; forest and
    woodland 18%; other 45%
Environment:
    frequent squalls during rainy season; subject to relatively rare, but
    potentially very destructive typhoons (especially in August)
Note:
    largest and southernmost island in the Mariana Islands archipelago;
    strategic location in western North Pacific Ocean 5,955 km west-southwest of
    Honolulu about three-quarters of the way between Hawaii and the Philippines

:Guam People

Population:
    142,271 (July 1992), growth rate 2.6% (1992)
Birth rate:
    27 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    4 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    3 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    15 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    72 years male, 76 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    2.5 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Guamanian(s); adjective - Guamanian; note - Guamanians are US
    citizens
Ethnic divisions:
    Chamorro 47%, Filipino 25%, Caucasian 10%, Chinese, Japanese, Korean, and
    other 18%
Religions:
    Roman Catholic 98%, other 2%
Languages:
    English and Chamorro, most residents bilingual; Japanese also widely spoken
Literacy:
    96% (male 96%, female 96%) age 15 and over can read and write (1980)
Labor force:
    46,930; federal and territorial government 40%, private 60% (trade 18%,
    services 15.6%, construction 13.8%, other 12.6%) (1990)
Organized labor:
    13% of labor force

:Guam Government

Long-form name:
    Territory of Guam
Type:
    organized, unincorporated territory of the US; policy relations between Guam
    and the US are under the jurisdiction of the Office of Territorial and
    International Affairs, US Department of the Interior
Capital:
    Agana
Administrative divisions:
    none (territory of the US)
Independence:
    none (territory of the US)
Constitution:
    Organic Act of 1 August 1950
Legal system:
    NA
National holiday:
    Guam Discovery Day (first Monday in March), Liberation Day (July 21), US
    Government holidays
Executive branch:
    President of the US, governor, lieutenant governor, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Legislature
Judicial branch:
    Federal District Court of Guam, Territorial Superior Court of Guam
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President George BUSH (since 20 January 1989)
  Head of Government:
    Governor Joseph A. ADA (since November 1986); Lieutenant Governor Frank F.
    BLAS
Political parties and leaders:
    Democratic Party (controls the legislature); Republican Party (party of the
    Governor)
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18; US citizens, but do not vote in US presidential
    elections
Elections:
  Governor:
    last held on 6 November 1990 (next to be held November 1994); results -
    Joseph F. ADA reelected
  Legislature:
    last held on 6 November 1990 (next to be held November 1992); a byelection
    was held in April 1991 to replace a deceased legislator, results - percent
    of vote by party NA; seats - (21 total) Democratic 11, Republican 10
  US House of Representatives:
    last held 6 November 1990 (next to be held 3 November 1992); Guam elects one
    nonvoting delegate; results - Ben BLAZ was elected as the nonacting
    delegate; seats - (1 total) Republican 1
Member of:
    ESCAP (associate), IOC, SPC
Diplomatic representation:
    none (territory of the US)
Flag:
    territorial flag is dark blue with a narrow red border on all four sides;
    centered is a red-bordered, pointed, vertical ellipse containing a beach
    scene, outrigger canoe with sail, and a palm tree with the word GUAM
    superimposed in bold red letters; US flag is the national flag

:Guam Economy

Overview:
    The economy is based on US military spending and on revenues from tourism.
    Over the past 20 years the tourist industry has grown rapidly, creating a
    construction boom for new hotels and the expansion of older ones. Visitors
    numbered about 900,000 in 1990. The small manufacturing sector includes
    textiles and clothing, beverage, food, and watch production. About 60% of
    the labor force works for the private sector and the rest for government.
    Most food and industrial goods are imported, with about 75% from the US. In
    1991 the unemployment rate was about 4.1%.
GNP:
    purchasing power equivalent - $2.0 billion, per capita $14,000; real growth
    rate NA% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    12.6% (1991)
Unemployment rate:
    4.1% (1991 est.)
Budget:
    revenues $525 million; expenditures $395 million, including capital
    expenditures of $NA.
Exports:
    $34 million (f.o.b., 1984)
  commodities:
    mostly transshipments of refined petroleum products, construction materials,
    fish, food and beverage products
  partners:
    US 25%, Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands 63%, other 12%
Imports:
    $493 million (c.i.f., 1984)
  commodities:
    petroleum and petroleum products, food, manufactured goods
  partners:
    US 23%, Japan 19%, other 58%
External debt:
    $NA
Industrial production:
    growth rate NA%
Electricity:
    500,000 kW capacity; 2,300 million kWh produced, 16,300 kWh per capita
    (1990)
Industries:
    US military, tourism, construction, transshipment services, concrete
    products, printing and publishing, food processing, textiles
Agriculture:
    relatively undeveloped with most food imported; fruits, vegetables, eggs,
    pork, poultry, beef, copra
Economic aid:
    although Guam receives no foreign aid, it does receive large transfer
    payments from the general revenues of the US Federal Treasury into which
    Guamanians pay no income or excise taxes; under the provisions of a special
    law of Congress, the Guamanian Treasury, rather than the US Treasury,
    receives federal income taxes paid by military and civilian Federal
    employees stationed in Guam
Currency:
    US currency is used
Exchange rates:
    US currency is used
Fiscal year:
    1 October - 30 September

:Guam Communications

Highways:
    674 km all-weather roads
Ports:
    Apra Harbor
Airports:
    5 total, 4 usable; 3 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways over
    3,659 m; 3 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; none with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    26,317 telephones (1989); broadcast stations - 3 AM, 3 FM, 3 TV; 2 Pacific
    Ocean INTELSAT ground stations

:Guam Defense Forces

Note:
    defense is the responsibility of the US

:Guatemala Geography

Total area:
    108,890 km2
Land area:
    108,430 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than Tennessee
Land boundaries:
    1,687 km; Belize 266 km, El Salvador 203 km, Honduras 256 km, Mexico 962 km
Coastline:
    400 km
Maritime claims:
  Continental shelf:
    not specific
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    claims Belize, but boundary negotiations to resolve the dispute have begun
Climate:
    tropical; hot, humid in lowlands; cooler in highlands
Terrain:
    mostly mountains with narrow coastal plains and rolling limestone plateau
    (Peten)
Natural resources:
    crude oil, nickel, rare woods, fish, chicle
Land use:
    arable land 12%; permanent crops 4%; meadows and pastures 12%; forest and
    woodland 40%; other 32%; includes irrigated 1%
Environment:
    numerous volcanoes in mountains, with frequent violent earthquakes;
    Caribbean coast subject to hurricanes and other tropical storms;
    deforestation; soil erosion; water pollution
Note:
    no natural harbors on west coast

:Guatemala People

Population:
    9,784,275 (July 1992), growth rate 2.4% (1992)
Birth rate:
    34 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    8 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    -2 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    56 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    61 years male, 66 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    4.6 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Guatemalan(s); adjective - Guatemalan
Ethnic divisions:
    Ladino (mestizo - mixed Indian and European ancestry) 56%, Indian 44%
Religions:
    predominantly Roman Catholic; also Protestant, traditional Mayan
Languages:
    Spanish, but over 40% of the population speaks an Indian language as a
    primary tongue (18 Indian dialects, including Quiche, Cakchiquel, Kekchi)
Literacy:
    55% (male 63%, female 47%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    2,500,000; agriculture 60%, services 13%, manufacturing 12%, commerce 7%,
    construction 4%, transport 3%, utilities 0.8%, mining 0.4% (1985)
Organized labor:
    8% of labor force (1988 est.)

:Guatemala Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Guatemala
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Guatemala
Administrative divisions:
    22 departments (departamentos, singular - departamento); Alta Verapaz, Baja
    Verapaz, Chimaltenango, Chiquimula, El Progreso, Escuintla, Guatemala,
    Huehuetenango, Izabal, Jalapa, Jutiapa, Peten, Quetzaltenango, Quiche,
    Retalhuleu, Sacatepequez, San Marcos, Santa Rosa, Solola, Suchitepequez,
    Totonicapan, Zacapa
Independence:
    15 September 1821 (from Spain)
Constitution:
    31 May 1985, effective 14 January 1986
Legal system:
    civil law system; judicial review of legislative acts; has not accepted
    compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 15 September (1821)
Executive branch:
    president, vice president, Council of Ministers (cabinet)
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Congress of the Republic (Congreso de la Republica)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court of Justice (Corte Suprema de Justicia)
Leaders:
  Chief of State and Head of Government:
    President Jorge SERRANO Elias (since 14 January 1991); Vice President
    Gustavo ESPINA Salguero (since 14 January 1991)
Political parties and leaders:
    National Centrist Union (UCN), Jorge CARPIO Nicolle; Solidarity Action
    Movement (MAS), Jorge SERRANO Elias; Christian Democratic Party (DCG),
    Alfonso CABRERA Hidalgo; National Advancement Party (PAN), Alvaro ARZU
    Irigoyen; National Liberation Movement (MLN), Mario SANDOVAL Alarcon; Social
    Democratic Party (PSD), Mario SOLARZANO Martinez; Popular Alliance 5 (AP-5),
    Max ORLANDO Molina; Revolutionary Party (PR), Carlos CHAVARRIA; National
    Authentic Center (CAN), Hector MAYORA Dawe; Democratic Institutional Party
    (PID), Oscar RIVAS; Nationalist United Front (FUN), Gabriel GIRON;
    Guatemalan Republican Front (FRG), Efrain RIOS Montt
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  Congress:
    last held on 11 November 1990 (next to be held 11 November 1995); results -
    UCN 25.6%, MAS 24.3%, DCG 17. 5%, PAN 17.3%, MLN 4.8%, PSD/AP-5 3.6%, PR
    2.1%; seats - (116 total) UCN 38, DCG 27, MAS 18, PAN 12, Pro - Rios Montt
    10, MLN 4, PR 1, PSD/AP-5 1, independent 5
  President:
    runoff held on 11 January 1991 (next to be held 11 November 1995); results -
    Jorge SERRANO Elias (MAS) 68.1%, Jorge CARPIO Nicolle (UCN) 31.9%
Communists:
    Guatemalan Labor Party (PGT); main radical left guerrilla groups - Guerrilla
    Army of the Poor (EGP), Revolutionary Organization of the People in Arms
    (ORPA), Rebel Armed Forces (FAR), and PGT dissidents

:Guatemala Government

Other political or pressure groups:
    Federated Chambers of Commerce and Industry (CACIF), Mutual Support Group
    (GAM), Unity for Popular and Labor Action (UASP), Agrarian Owners Group
    (UNAGRO), Committee for Campesino Unity (CUC)
Member of:
    BCIE, CACM, CCC, ECLAC, FAO, G-24, G-77, GATT, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
    ICFTU, IDA, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, IOM, ITU,
    LAES, LAIA, LORCS, OAS, OPANAL, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL,
    WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Juan Jose CASO-FANJUL; Chancery at 2220 R Street NW, Washington,
    DC 20008; telephone (202) 745-4952 through 4954; there are Guatemalan
    Consulates General in Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami, New Orleans, New
    York, and San Francisco
  US:
    Ambassador Thomas F. STROOCK; Embassy at 7-01 Avenida de la Reforma, Zone
    10, Guatemala City (mailing address is APO AA 34024); telephone [502] (2)
    31-15-41
Flag:
    three equal vertical bands of light blue (hoist side), white, and light blue
    with the coat of arms centered in the white band; the coat of arms includes
    a green and red quetzal (the national bird) and a scroll bearing the
    inscription LIBERTAD 15 DE SEPTIEMBRE DE 1821 (the original date of
    independence from Spain) all superimposed on a pair of crossed rifles and a
    pair of crossed swords and framed by a wreath

:Guatemala Economy

Overview:
    The economy is based on family and corporate agriculture, which accounts for
    26% of GDP, employs about 60% of the labor force, and supplies two-thirds of
    exports. Manufacturing, predominantly in private hands, accounts for about
    18% of GDP and 12% of the labor force. In both 1990 and 1991, the economy
    grew by 3%, the fourth and fifth consecutive years of mild growth. Inflation
    at 40% in 1990-91 was more than double the 1987-89 level.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $11.7 billion, per capita $1,260; real growth
    rate 3% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    40% (1991 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    6.7%, with 30-40% underemployment (1989 est.)
Budget:
    revenues $1.05 billion; expenditures $1.3 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $270 million (1989 est.)
Exports:
    $1.16 billion (f.o.b., 1990)
  commodities:
    coffee 26%, sugar 13%, bananas 7%, beef 2%
  partners:
    US 39%, El Salvador, Costa Rica, Germany, Honduras
Imports:
    $1.66 billion (c.i.f., 1990)
  commodities:
    fuel and petroleum products, machinery, grain, fertilizers, motor vehicles
  partners:
    US 40%, Mexico, Venezuela, Japan, Germany
External debt:
    $2.6 billion (December 1990 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate NA; accounts for 18% of GDP
Electricity:
    802,600 kW capacity; 2,461 million kWh produced, 266 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    sugar, textiles and clothing, furniture, chemicals, petroleum, metals,
    rubber, tourism
Agriculture:
    accounts for 26% of GDP; most important sector of economy and contributes
    two-thirds of export earnings; principal crops - sugarcane, corn, bananas,
    coffee, beans, cardamom; livestock - cattle, sheep, pigs, chickens; food
    importer
Illicit drugs:
    illicit producer of opium poppy and cannabis for the international drug
    trade; the government has an active eradication program for cannabis and
    opium poppy; transit country for cocaine shipments
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-90), $1.1 billion; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $7.92 billion
Currency:
    quetzal (plural - quetzales); 1 quetzal (Q) = 100 centavos
Exchange rates:
    free market quetzales (Q) per US$1 - 5.0854 (January 1992), 5.0289 (1991),
    2.8161 (1989), 2.6196 (1988), 2.500 (1987); note - black-market rate 2.800
    (May 1989)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Guatemala Communications

Railroads:
    884 km 0.914-meter gauge, single track; 782 km government owned, 102 km
    privately owned
Highways:
    26,429 km total; 2,868 km paved, 11,421 km gravel, and 12,140 unimproved
Inland waterways:
    260 km navigable year round; additional 730 km navigable during high-water
    season
Pipelines:
    crude oil 275 km
Ports:
    Puerto Barrios, Puerto Quetzal, Santo Tomas de Castilla
Merchant marine:
    1 cargo ship (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 4,129 GRT/6,450 DWT
Civil air:
    8 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    448 total, 400 usable; 11 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 3 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 19 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    fairly modern network centered in Guatemala [city]; 97,670 telephones;
    broadcast stations - 91 AM, no FM, 25 TV, 15 shortwave; connection into
    Central American Microwave System; 1 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT earth station

:Guatemala Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Navy, Air Force
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 2,169,073; 1,420,116 fit for military service; 107,239 reach
    military age (18) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $113 million, 1% of GDP (1990)

:Guernsey Geography

Total area:
    194 km2
Land area:
    194 km2; includes Alderney, Guernsey, Herm, Sark, and some other smaller
    islands
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    50 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive fishing zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    3 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    temperate with mild winters and cool summers; about 50% of days are overcast
Terrain:
    mostly level with low hills in southwest
Natural resources:
    cropland
Land use:
    arable land NA%; permanent crops NA%; meadows and pastures NA%; forest and
    woodland NA%; other NA%; cultivated about 50%
Environment:
    large, deepwater harbor at Saint Peter Port
Note:
    52 km west of France

:Guernsey People

Population:
    57,949 (July 1992), growth rate 0.6% (1992)
Birth rate:
    12 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    11 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    5 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    6 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    72 years male, 78 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    1.6 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Channel Islander(s); adjective - Channel Islander
Ethnic divisions:
    UK and Norman-French descent
Religions:
    Anglican, Roman Catholic, Presbyterian, Baptist, Congregational, Methodist
Languages:
    English, French; Norman-French dialect spoken in country districts
Literacy:
    NA% (male NA%, female NA%) but compulsory education age 5 to 16
Labor force:
    NA
Organized labor:
    NA

:Guernsey Government

Long-form name:
    Bailiwick of Guernsey
Type:
    British crown dependency
Capital:
    Saint Peter Port
Administrative divisions:
    none (British crown dependency)
Independence:
    none (British crown dependency)
Constitution:
    unwritten; partly statutes, partly common law and practice
Legal system:
    English law and local statute; justice is administered by the Royal Court
National holiday:
    Liberation Day, 9 May (1945)
Executive branch:
    British monarch, lieutenant governor, bailiff, deputy bailiff
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Assembly of the States
Judicial branch:
    Royal Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952)
  Head of Government:
    Lieutenant Governor Lt. Gen. Sir Michael WILKINS (since NA 1990); Bailiff
    Mr. Graham Martyn DOREY (since February 1992)
Political parties and leaders:
    none; all independents
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  Assembly of the States:
    last held NA (next to be held NA); results - no percent of vote by party
    since all are independents; seats - (60 total, 33 elected), all independents
Member of:
    none
Diplomatic representation:
    none (British crown dependency)
Flag:
    white with the red cross of Saint George (patron saint of England) extending
    to the edges of the flag

:Guernsey Economy

Overview:
    Tourism is a major source of revenue. Other economic activity includes
    financial services, breeding the world-famous Guernsey cattle, and growing
    tomatoes and flowers for export.
GDP:
    $NA, per capita $NA; real growth rate 9% (1987)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    7% (1988)
Unemployment rate:
    NA%
Budget:
    revenues $208.9 million; expenditures $173.9 million, including capital
    expenditures of NA (1988)
Exports:
    $NA
  commodities:
    tomatoes, flowers and ferns, sweet peppers, eggplant, other vegetables
  partners:
    UK (regarded as internal trade)
Imports:
    $NA
  commodities:
    coal, gasoline, and oil
  partners:
    UK (regarded as internal trade)
External debt:
    $NA
Industrial production:
    growth rate NA%
Electricity:
    173,000 kW capacity; 525 million kWh produced, 9,340 kWh per capita (1989)
Industries:
    tourism, banking
Agriculture:
    tomatoes, flowers (mostly grown in greenhouses), sweet peppers, eggplant,
    other vegetables and fruit; Guernsey cattle
Economic aid:
    none
Currency:
    Guernsey pound (plural - pounds); 1 Guernsey (#G) pound = 100 pence
Exchange rates:
    Guernsey pounds (#G) per US$1 - 0.5799 (March 1992), 0.5652 (1991), 0.5603
    (1990), 0.6099 (1989), 0.5614 (1988), 0.6102 (1987); note - the Guernsey
    pound is at par with the British pound
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Guernsey Communications

Ports:
    Saint Peter Port, Saint Sampson
Telecommunications:
    broadcast stations - 1 AM, no FM, 1 TV; 41,900 telephones; 1 submarine cable

:Guernsey Defense Forces

Note:
    defense is the responsibility of the UK

:Guinea Geography

Total area:
    245,860 km2
Land area:
    245,860 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than Oregon
Land boundaries:
    3,399 km; Guinea-Bissau 386 km, Ivory Coast 610 km, Liberia 563 km, Mali 858
    km, Senegal 330 km, Sierra Leone 652 km
Coastline:
    320 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    generally hot and humid; monsoonal-type rainy season (June to November) with
    southwesterly winds; dry season (December to May) with northeasterly
    harmattan winds
Terrain:
    generally flat coastal plain, hilly to mountainous interior
Natural resources:
    bauxite, iron ore, diamonds, gold, uranium, hydropower, fish
Land use:
    arable land 6%; permanent crops NEGL%; meadows and pastures 12%; forest and
    woodland 42%; other 40%; includes irrigated NEGL%
Environment:
    hot, dry, dusty harmattan haze may reduce visibility during dry season;
    deforestation

:Guinea People

Population:
    7,783,926 (July 1992), growth rate - 1.5% (1992)
Birth rate:
    46 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    21 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    -40 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    143 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    41 years male, 45 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    6.0 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Guinean(s); adjective - Guinean
Ethnic divisions:
    Fulani 35%, Malinke 30%, Soussou 20%, small indigenous tribes 15%
Religions:
    Muslim 85%, Christian 8%, indigenous beliefs 7%
Languages:
    French (official); each tribe has its own language
Literacy:
    24% (male 35%, female 13%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    2,400,000 (1983); agriculture 82.0%, industry and commerce 11.0%, services
    5.4%; 88,112 civil servants (1987); 52% of population of working age (1985)
Organized labor:
    virtually 100% of wage earners loosely affiliated with the National
    Confederation of Guinean Workers

:Guinea Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Guinea
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Conakry
Administrative divisions:
    33 administrative regions (regions administratives, singular - region
    administrative); Beyla, Boffa, Boke, Conakry, Coyah, Dabola, Dalaba,
    Dinguiraye, Faranah, Forecariah, Fria, Gaoual, Gueckedou, Kankan, Kerouane,
    Kindia, Kissidougou, Koubia, Koundara, Kouroussa, Labe, Lelouma, Lola,
    Macenta, Mali, Mamou, Mandiana, Nzerekore, Pita, Siguiri, Telimele, Tougue,
    Yomou
Independence:
    2 October 1958 (from France; formerly French Guinea)
Constitution:
    23 December 1990 (Loi Fundamentale)
Legal system:
    based on French civil law system, customary law, and decree; legal codes
    currently being revised; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
National holiday:
    Anniversary of the Second Republic, 3 April (1984)
Executive branch:
    president, Transitional Committee for National Recovery (Comite
    Transitionale de Redressement National or CTRN) replaced the Military
    Committee for National Recovery (Comite Militaire de Redressement National
    or CMRN); Council of Ministers (cabinet)
Legislative branch:
    People's National Assembly (Assemblee Nationale Populaire) was dissolved
    after the 3 April 1984 coup; note: framework for a new National Assembly
    established in December 1991 (will have 114 seats)
Judicial branch:
    Court of Appeal (Cour d'Appel)
Leaders:
  Chief of State and Head of Government:
    Gen. Lansana CONTE (since 5 April 1984)
Political parties and leaders:
    none; following the 3 April 1984 coup, all political activity was banned
Suffrage:
    none
Elections:
    none
Member of:
    ACCT, ACP, AfDB, CEAO, ECA, ECOWAS, FAO, FZ, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, IDA, IDB,
    IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, ISO (correspondent), ITU,
    LORCS, NAM, OAU, OIC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WHO, WIPO, WMO,
    WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires ad interim Ansoumane CAMARA; Chancery
    at 2112 Leroy Place NW, Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 483-9420
  US:
    Ambassador Dane F. SMITH, Jr.; Embassy at 2nd Boulevard and 9th Avenue,
    Conakry (mailing address is B. P. 603, Conakry); telephone (224) 44-15-20
    through 24
Flag:
    three equal vertical bands of red (hoist side), yellow, and green; uses the
    popular pan-African colors of Ethiopia; similar to the flag of Rwanda, which
    has a large black letter R centered in the yellow band

:Guinea Economy

Overview:
    Although possessing many natural resources and considerable potential for
    agricultural development, Guinea is one of the poorest countries in the
    world. The agricultural sector contributes about 40% to GDP and employs more
    than 80% of the work force, while industry accounts for 27% of GDP. Guinea
    possesses over 25% of the world's bauxite reserves; exports of bauxite and
    alumina accounted for about 70% of total exports in 1989.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $3.0 billion, per capita $410; real growth rate
    4.3% (1990 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    19.6% (1990 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    NA%
Budget:
    revenues $449 million; expenditures $708 million, including capital
    expenditures of $361 million (1990 est.)
Exports:
    $788 million (f.o.b., 1990 est.)
  commodities:
    alumina, bauxite, diamonds, coffee, pineapples, bananas, palm kernels
  partners:
    US 33%, EC 33%, USSR and Eastern Europe 20%, Canada
Imports:
    $692 million (c.i.f., 1990 est.)
  commodities:
    petroleum products, metals, machinery, transport equipment, foodstuffs,
    textiles, and other grain
  partners:
    US 16%, France, Brazil
External debt:
    $2.6 billion (1990 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate NA%; accounts for 27% of GDP
Electricity:
    113,000 kW capacity; 300 million kWh produced, 40 kWh per capita (1989)
Industries:
    bauxite mining, alumina, gold, diamond mining, light manufacturing and
    agricultural processing industries
Agriculture:
    accounts for 40% of GDP (includes fishing and forestry); mostly subsistence
    farming; principal products - rice, coffee, pineapples, palm kernels,
    cassava, bananas, sweet potatoes, timber; livestock - cattle, sheep and
    goats; not self-sufficient in food grains
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $227 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $1,465 million; OPEC
    bilateral aid (1979-89), $120 million; Communist countries (1970-89), $446
    million
Currency:
    Guinean franc (plural - francs); 1 Guinean franc (FG) = 100 centimes
Exchange rates:
    Guinean francs (FG) per US$1 - 675 (1990), 618 (1989), 515 (1988), 440
    (1987), 383 (1986)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Guinea Communications

Railroads:
    1,045 km; 806 km 1.000-meter gauge, 239 km 1.435-meter standard gauge
Highways:
    30,100 km total; 1,145 km paved, 12,955 km gravel or laterite (of which
    barely 4,500 km are currently all-weather roads), 16,000 km unimproved earth
    (1987)
Inland waterways:
    1,295 km navigable by shallow-draft native craft
Ports:
    Conakry, Kamsar
Civil air:
    10 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    15 total, 15 usable; 4 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 3 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 10 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    poor to fair system of open-wire lines, small radiocommunication stations,
    and new radio relay system; 15,000 telephones; broadcast stations - 3 AM 1
    FM, 1 TV; 65,000 TV sets; 200,000 radio receivers; 1 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT
    earth station

:Guinea Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Navy (acts primarily as a coast guard), Air Force, Republican Guard,
    paramilitary National Gendarmerie, National Police Force
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 1,759,811; 888,968 fit for military service (1989)
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $29 million, 1.2% of GDP (1988)

:Guinea-Bissau Geography

Total area:
    36,120 km2
Land area:
    28,000 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly less than three times the size of Connecticut
Land boundaries:
    724 km; Guinea 386, Senegal 338 km
Coastline:
    350 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    the International Court of Justice (ICJ) on 12 November 1991 rendered its
    decision on the Guinea-Bissau/Senegal maritime boundary in favor of Senegal
Climate:
    tropical; generally hot and humid; monsoon-type rainy season (June to
    November) with southwesterly winds; dry season (December to May) with
    northeasterly harmattan winds
Terrain:
    mostly low coastal plain rising to savanna in east
Natural resources:
    unexploited deposits of petroleum, bauxite, phosphates; fish, timber
Land use:
    arable land 11%; permanent crops 1%; meadows and pastures 43%; forest and
    woodland 38%; other 7%
Environment:
    hot, dry, dusty harmattan haze may reduce visibility during dry season

:Guinea-Bissau People

Population:
    1,047,137 (July 1992), growth rate 2.4% (1992)
Birth rate:
    42 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    18 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    124 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    45 years male, 48 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    5.7 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Guinea-Bissauan(s); adjective - Guinea-Bissauan
Ethnic divisions:
    African about 99% (Balanta 30%, Fula 20%, Manjaca 14%, Mandinga 13%, Papel
    7%); European and mulatto less than 1%
Religions:
    indigenous beliefs 65%, Muslim 30%, Christian 5%
Languages:
    Portuguese (official); Criolo and numerous African languages
Literacy:
    36% (male 50%, female 24%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    403,000 (est.); agriculture 90%, industry, services, and commerce 5%,
    government 5%; population of working age 53% (1983)
Organized labor:
    only one trade union - the National Union of Workers of Guinea-Bissau (UNTG)

:Guinea-Bissau Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Guinea-Bissau
Type:
    republic; highly centralized multiparty since mid-1991; the African Party
    for the Independence of Guinea-Bissau and Cape Verde (PAIGC) held an
    extraordinary party congress in December 1990 and established a two-year
    transition program during which the constitution will be revised, allowing
    for multiple political parties and a presidential election in 1993
Capital:
    Bissau
Administrative divisions:
    9 regions (regioes, singular - regiao); Bafata, Biombo, Bissau, Bolama,
    Cacheu, Gabu, Oio, Quinara, Tombali
Independence:
    10 September 1974 (from Portugal; formerly Portuguese Guinea)
Constitution:
    16 May 1984
Legal system:
    NA
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 10 September (1974)
Executive branch:
    president of the Council of State, vice presidents of the Council of State,
    Council of State, Council of Ministers (cabinet)
Legislative branch:
    unicameral National People's Assembly (Assembleia Nacional Popular)
Judicial branch:
    none; there is a Ministry of Justice in the Council of Ministers
Leaders:
  Chief of State and Head of Government:
    President of the Council of State Brig. Gen. Joao Bernardo VIEIRA (assumed
    power 14 November 1980 and elected President of Council of State on 16 May
    1984)
Political parties and leaders:
    3 parties - African Party for the Independence of Guinea-Bissau and Cape
    Verde (PAIGC), President Joao Bernardo VIEIRA, leader; PAIGC is still the
    major party and controls all aspects of the Government, but 2 opposition
    parties registered in late 1991; Democratic Social Front (FDS), Rafael
    BARBOSA, leader; Bafata Movement, Domingos Fernandes GARNER, leader;
    Democratic Front, Aristides MENEZES, leader; other parties forming
Suffrage:
    universal at age 15
Elections:
  National People's Assembly:
    last held 15 June 1989 (next to be held 15 June 1994); results - PAIGC is
    the only party; seats - (150 total) PAIGC 150, appointed by Regional
    Councils
  President of Council of State:
    last held 19 June 1989 (next to be held NA 1993); results - Brig. Gen. Joao
    Bernardo VIEIRA was reelected without opposition by the National People's
    Assembly
Member of:
    ACCT (associate), ACP, AfDB, ECA, ECOWAS, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, IDA, IDB,
    IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, IOM (observer), ITU, LORCS, NAM, OAU, OIC, UN,
    UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Alfredo Lopes CABRAL; Chancery at 918 16th Street NW, Mezzanine
    Suite, Washington, DC 20006; telephone (202) 872-4222,

:Guinea-Bissau Government

  US:
    Ambassador William L. JACOBSEN, Jr.; Embassy at 17 Avenida Domingos Ramos,
    Bissau (mailing address is 1067 Bissau Codex, Bissau, Guinea-Bissau);
    telephone [245] 20-1139, 20-1145, 20-1113
Flag:
    two equal horizontal bands of yellow (top) and green with a vertical red
    band on the hoist side; there is a black five-pointed star centered in the
    red band; uses the popular pan-African colors of Ethiopia; similar to the
    flag of Cape Verde, which has the black star raised above the center of the
    red band and is framed by two corn stalks and a yellow clam shell

:Guinea-Bissau Economy

Overview:
    Guinea-Bissau ranks among the poorest countries in the world, with a per
    capita GDP below $200. Agriculture and fishing are the main economic
    activities. Cashew nuts, peanuts, and palm kernels are the primary exports.
    Exploitation of known mineral deposits is unlikely at present because of a
    weak infrastructure and the high cost of development. The government's
    four-year plan (1988-91) has targeted agricultural development as the top
    priority.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $162 million, per capita $160; real growth rate
    5.0% (1989)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    25% (1990 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    NA%
Budget:
    revenues $22.7 million; expenditures $30.8 million, including capital
    expenditures of $18.0 million (1989 est.)
Exports:
    $14.2 million (f.o.b., 1989 est.)
  commodities:
    cashews, fish, peanuts, palm kernels
  partners:
    Portugal, Senegal, France, The Gambia, Netherlands, Spain
Imports:
    $68.9 million (f.o.b., 1989 est.)
  commodities:
    capital equipment, consumer goods, semiprocessed goods, foods, petroleum
  partners:
    Portugal, Netherlands, Senegal, USSR, Germany
External debt:
    $462 million (December 1990 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate - 1.0% (1989 est.); accounts for 10% of GDP (1989 est.)
Electricity:
    22,000 kW capacity; 30 million kWh produced, 30 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    agricultural processing, beer, soft drinks
Agriculture:
    accounts for over 50% of GDP, nearly 100% of exports, and 90% of employment;
    rice is the staple food; other crops include corn, beans, cassava, cashew
    nuts, peanuts, palm kernels, and cotton; not self-sufficient in food;
    fishing and forestry potential not fully exploited
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $49 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $615 million; OPEC
    bilateral aid (1979-89), $41 million; Communist countries (1970-89), $68
    million
Currency:
    Guinea-Bissauan peso (plural - pesos); 1 Guinea-Bissauan peso (PG) = 100
    centavos
Exchange rates:
    Guinea-Bissauan pesos (PG) per US$1 - 1987.2 (1989), 1363.6 (1988), 851.65
    (1987), 238.98 (1986)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Guinea-Bissau Communications

Highways:
    3,218 km; 2,698 km bituminous, remainder earth
Inland waterways:
    scattered stretches are important to coastal commerce
Ports:
    Bissau
Civil air:
    2 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    34 total, 15 usable; 4 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 1 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 5 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    poor system of radio relay, open-wire lines, and radiocommunications; 3,000
    telephones; broadcast stations - 2 AM, 3 FM, 1 TV

:Guinea-Bissau Defense Forces

Branches:
    People's Revolutionary Armed Force (FARP; including Army, Navy, Air Force),
    paramilitary force
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 228,856; 130,580 fit for military service
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $9.3 million, 5-6% of GDP (1987)

:Guyana Geography

Total area:
    214,970 km2
Land area:
    196,850 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than Idaho
Land boundaries:
    2,462 km; Brazil 1,119 km, Suriname 600 km, Venezuela 743 km
Coastline:
    459 km
Maritime claims:
  Continental shelf:
    outer edge of continental margin or 200 nm
  Exclusive fishing zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    all of the area west of the Essequibo River claimed by Venezuela; Suriname
    claims area between New (Upper Courantyne) and Courantyne/Kutari Rivers (all
    headwaters of the Courantyne)
Climate:
    tropical; hot, humid, moderated by northeast trade winds; two rainy seasons
    (May to mid-August, mid-November to mid-January)
Terrain:
    mostly rolling highlands; low coastal plain; savanna in south
Natural resources:
    bauxite, gold, diamonds, hardwood timber, shrimp, fish
Land use:
    arable land 3%; permanent crops NEGL%; meadows and pastures 6%; forest and
    woodland 83%; other 8%; includes irrigated 1%
Environment:
    flash floods a constant threat during rainy seasons; water pollution

:Guyana People

Population:
    739,431 (July 1992), growth rate - 0.6% (1992)
Birth rate:
    21 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    7 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    -20 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    50 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    61 years male, 68 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    2.4 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Guyanese (singular and plural); adjective - Guyanese
Ethnic divisions:
    East Indian 51%, black and mixed 43%, Amerindian 4%, European and Chinese 2%
Religions:
    Christian 57%, Hindu 33%, Muslim 9%, other 1%
Languages:
    English, Amerindian dialects
Literacy:
    95% (male 98%, female 96%) age 15 and over having ever attended school (1990
    est.)
Labor force:
    268,000; industry and commerce 44.5%, agriculture 33.8%, services 21.7%;
    public-sector employment amounts to 60-80% of the total labor force (1985)
Organized labor:
    34% of labor force

:Guyana Government

Long-form name:
    Co-operative Republic of Guyana
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Georgetown
Administrative divisions:
    10 regions; Barima-Waini, Cuyuni-Mazaruni, Demerara-Mahaica, East
    Berbice-Corentyne, Essequibo Islands-West Demerara, Mahaica-Berbice,
    Pomeroon-Supenaam, Potaro-Siparuni, Upper Demerara-Berbice, Upper
    Takutu-Upper Essequibo
Independence:
    26 May 1966 (from UK; formerly British Guiana)
Constitution:
    6 October 1980
Legal system:
    based on English common law with certain admixtures of Roman-Dutch law; has
    not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
National holiday:
    Republic Day, 23 February (1970)
Executive branch:
    executive president, first vice president, prime minister, first deputy
    prime minister, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    unicameral National Assembly
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court of Judicature
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Executive President Hugh Desmond HOYTE (since 6 August 1985); First Vice
    President Hamilton GREEN (since 6 August 1985)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Hamilton GREEN (since NA August 1985)
Political parties and leaders:
    People's National Congress (PNC), Hugh Desmond HOYTE; People's Progressive
    Party (PPP), Cheddi JAGAN; Working People's Alliance (WPA), Eusi KWAYANA,
    Rupert ROOPNARINE; Democratic Labor Movement (DLM), Paul TENNASSEE; People's
    Democratic Movement (PDM), Llewellyn JOHN; National Democratic Front (NDF),
    Joseph BACCHUS; United Force (UF), Manzoor NADIR; United Republican Party
    (URP), Leslie RAMSAMMY; National Republican Party (NRP), Robert GANGADEEN;
    Guyanese Labor Party (GLP), Nanda GOPAUL
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  Executive President:
    last held on 9 December 1985 (next to be held 1992); results - Hugh Desmond
    HOYTE was elected president since he was leader of the party with the most
    votes in the National Assembly elections
  National Assembly:
    last held on 9 December 1985 (next to be held mid-1992); results - PNC 78%,
    PPP 16%, UF 4%, WPA 2%; seats - (65 total, 53 elected) PNC 42, PPP 8, UF 2,
    WPA 1
Other political or pressure groups:
    Trades Union Congress (TUC); Guyana Council of Indian Organizations (GCIO);
    Civil Liberties Action Committee (CLAC); the latter two organizations are
    small and active but not well organized; Guyanese Action for Reform and
    Democracy (GUARD) includes various labor groups, as well as several of the
    smaller political parties

:Guyana Government

Member of:
    ACP, C, CARICOM, CCC, CDB, ECLAC, FAO, G-77, GATT, IADB, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU,
    IDA, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INTERPOL, IOC, ITU, LAES, LORCS, NAM, OAS,
    UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WMO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Dr. Cedric Hilburn GRANT; Chancery at 2490 Tracy Place NW,
    Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 265-6900; there is a Guyanese
    Consulate General in New York
  US:
    Ambassador George JONES; Embassy at 99-100 Young and Duke Streets,
    Georgetown; telephone [592] (2) 54900 through 54909
Flag:
    green with a red isosceles triangle (based on the hoist side) superimposed
    on a long yellow arrowhead; there is a narrow black border between the red
    and yellow, and a narrow white border between the yellow and the green

:Guyana Economy

Overview:
    Guyana is one of the world's poorest countries with a per capita income less
    than one-fifth the South American average. After growing on average at less
    than 1% a year in 1986-87, GDP dropped by 5% a year in 1988-90. The decline
    resulted from bad weather, labor trouble in the canefields, and flooding and
    equipment problems in the bauxite industry. Consumer prices rose about 100%
    in 1989 and 75% in 1990, and the current account deficit widened
    substantially as sugar and bauxite exports fell. Moreover, electric power is
    in short supply and constitutes a major barrier to future gains in national
    output. The government, in association with international financial
    agencies, seeks to reduce its payment arrears and to raise new funds. The
    government's stabilization program - aimed at establishing realistic
    exchange rates, reasonable price stability, and a resumption of growth -
    requires considerable public administrative abilities and continued patience
    by consumers during a long incubation period. In 1991, buoyed by a recovery
    in mining and agriculture, the economy posted 6% growth, according to
    official figures. A large volume of illegal and quasi- legal economic
    activity is not captured in estimates of the country's total output.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $250 million, per capita $300; real growth rate
    6% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    75% (1990)
Unemployment rate:
    12-15% (1990 est.)
Budget:
    revenues $126 million; expenditures $250 million (1990 est.)
Exports:
    $189 million (f.o.b., 1990 est.)
  commodities:
    bauxite, sugar, gold, rice, shrimp, molasses, timber, rum
  partners:
    UK 31%, US 23%, CARICOM 7%, Canada 6% (1988)
Imports:
    $246 million (c.i.f., 1991)
  commodities:
    manufactures, machinery, food, petroleum
  partners:
    US 33%, CARICOM 10%, UK 9%, Canada 2% (1989)
External debt:
    $2.0 billion, including arrears (1990)
Industrial production:
    growth rate - 12.0% (1990 est.); accounts for about 11% of GDP
Electricity:
    252,500 kW capacity; 647 million kWh produced, 863 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    bauxite mining, sugar, rice milling, timber, fishing (shrimp), textiles,
    gold mining
Agriculture:
    most important sector, accounting for 24% of GDP and about half of exports;
    sugar and rice are key crops; development potential exists for fishing and
    forestry; not self-sufficient in food, especially wheat, vegetable oils, and
    animal products
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $116 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $325 million;
    Communist countries 1970-89, $242 million
Currency:
    Guyanese dollar (plural - dollars); 1 Guyanese dollar (G$) = 100 cents

:Guyana Economy

Exchange rates:
    Guyanese dollars (G$) per US$1 - 124.1 (March 1992) 111.8 (1991), 39.533
    (1990), 27.159 (1989), 10.000 (1988), 9.756 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Guyana Communications

Railroads:
    187 km total, all single track 0.914-meter gauge
Highways:
    7,665 km total; 550 km paved, 5,000 km gravel, 1,525 km earth, 590 km
    unimproved
Inland waterways:
    6,000 km total of navigable waterways; Berbice, Demerara, and Essequibo
    Rivers are navigable by oceangoing vessels for 150 km, 100 km, and 80 km,
    respectively
Ports:
    Georgetown
Civil air:
    3 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    54 total, 49 usable; 5 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; none with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 13 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    fair system with radio relay network; over 27,000 telephones; tropospheric
    scatter link to Trinidad; broadcast stations - 4 AM, 3 FM, no TV, 1
    shortwave; 1 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT earth station

:Guyana Defense Forces

Branches:
    Guyana Defense Force (GDF; includes Coast Guard and Air Corps), Guyana
    Police Force (GPF), Guyana People's Militia (GPM), Guyana National Service
    (GNS)
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 196,066; 149,045 fit for military service
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $5.5 million, 6% of GDP (1989 est.)

:Haiti Geography

Total area:
    27,750 km2
Land area:
    27,560 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than Maryland
Land boundaries:
    275 km; Dominican Republic 275 km
Coastline:
    1,771 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    24 nm
  Continental shelf:
    to depth of exploitation
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    claims US-administered Navassa Island
Climate:
    tropical; semiarid where mountains in east cut off trade winds
Terrain:
    mostly rough and mountainous
Natural resources:
    bauxite
Land use:
    arable land 20%; permanent crops 13%; meadows and pastures 18%; forest and
    woodland 4%; other 45%; includes irrigated 3%
Environment:
    lies in the middle of the hurricane belt and subject to severe storms from
    June to October; occasional flooding and earthquakes; deforestation; soil
    erosion
Note:
    shares island of Hispaniola with Dominican Republic

:Haiti People

Population:
    6,431,977 (July 1992), growth rate 2.3% (1992)
Birth rate:
    42 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    15 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    -5 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    104 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    53 years male, 55 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    6.2 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Haitian(s); adjective - Haitian
Ethnic divisions:
    black 95%, mulatto and European 5%
Religions:
    Roman Catholic is the official religion; Roman Catholic 80% (of which an
    overwhelming majority also practice Voodoo), Protestant 16% (Baptist 10%,
    Pentecostal 4%, Adventist 1%, other 1%), none 1%, other 3% (1982)
Languages:
    French (official) spoken by only 10% of population; all speak Creole
Literacy:
    53% (male 59%, female 47%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    2,300,000; agriculture 66%, services 25%, industry 9%; shortage of skilled
    labor, unskilled labor abundant (1982)
Organized labor:
    NA

:Haiti Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Haiti
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Port-au-Prince
Administrative divisions:
    9 departments, (departements, singular - departement); Artibonite, Centre,
    Grand'Anse, Nord, Nord-Est, Nord-Ouest, Ouest, Sud, Sud-Est
Independence:
    1 January 1804 (from France)
Constitution:
    27 August 1983, suspended February 1986; draft constitution approved March
    1987, suspended June 1988, most articles reinstated March 1989; October
    1991, government claims to be observing the Constitution
Legal system:
    based on Roman civil law system; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 1 January (1804)
Executive branch:
    president, Council of Ministers (cabinet)
Legislative branch:
    bicameral National Assembly (Assemblee Nationale) consisting of an upper
    house or Senate and a lower house or Chamber of Deputies
Judicial branch:
    Court of Appeal (Cour de Cassation)
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Jean-Bertrand ARISTIDE (since 7 February 1991), ousted in a coup
    in September 1991, but still recognized by international community as Chief
    of State; President Joseph NERETTE installed by military on 7 October 1991
  Head of Government:
    de facto Prime Minister Marc BAZIN (since June 1992)
Political parties and leaders:
    National Front for Change and Democracy (FNCD) led by Jean-Bertrand
    ARISTIDE, including Congress of Democratic Movements (CONACOM), Victor
    BENOIT; National Konbite Movement (MKN), Volvick Remy JOSEPH; National
    Alliance for Democracy and Progress (ANDP), a coalition - that broke up
    following elections - consisting of Movement for the Installation of
    Democracy in Haiti (MIDH), Marc BAZIN; National Progressive Revolutionary
    Party (PANPRA), Serge GILLES; and National Patriotic Movement of November 28
    (MNP-28), Dejean BELIZAIRE; National Agricultural and Industrial Party
    (PAIN), Louis DEJOIE; Movement for National Reconstruction (MRN), Rene
    THEODORE; Haitian Christian Democratic Party (PDCH), Joseph DOUZE; Assembly
    of Progressive National Democrats (RDNP), Leslie MANIGAT; National Party of
    Labor (PNT), Thomas DESULME; Mobilization for National Development (MDN),
    Hubert DE RONCERAY; Democratic Movement for the Liberation of Haiti
    (MODELH), Francois LATORTUE; Haitian Social Christian Party (PSCH), Gregoire
    EUGENE; Movement for the Organization of the Country (MOP), Gesner COMEAU
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  Chamber of Deputies:
    last held 16 December 1990, with runoff held 20 January 1991 (next to be
    held by December 1994); results - percent of vote NA; seats - (83 total)
    FNCD 27, ANDP 17, PDCH 7, PAIN 6, RDNP 6, MDN 5, PNT 3, MKN 2, MODELH 2, MRN
    1, independents 5, other 2

:Haiti Government

  President:
    last held 16 December 1990 (next election to be held by December 1995);
    results - Rev. Jean-Bertrand ARISTIDE 67.5%, Marc BAZIN 14.2%, Louis DEJOIE
    4.9%
Elections:
  Senate:
    last held 16 December 1990, with runoff held 20 January 1991 (next to be
    held December 1992); results - percent of vote NA; seats - (27 total) FNCD
    13, ANDP 6, PAIN 2, MRN 2, PDCH 1, RDNP 1, PNT 1, independent 1
Communists:
    United Party of Haitian Communists (PUCH), Rene THEODORE (roughly 2,000
    members)
Other political or pressure groups:
    Democratic Unity Confederation (KID), Roman Catholic Church, Confederation
    of Haitian Workers (CTH), Federation of Workers Trade Unions (FOS),
    Autonomous Haitian Workers (CATH), National Popular Assembly (APN)
Member of:
    ACCT, CARICOM (observer), CCC, ECLAC, FAO, G-77, GATT, IADB, IAEA, IBRD,
    ICAO, IDA, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, ITU, LAES,
    LORCS, OAS, OPANAL, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO,
    WIPO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Jean CASIMIR; Chancery at 2311 Massachusetts Avenue NW,
    Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 332-4090 through 4092; there are
    Haitian Consulates General in Boston, Chicago, Miami, New York, and San Juan
    (Puerto Rico)
  US:
    Ambassador Alvin P. ADAMS, Jr.; Embassy at Harry Truman Boulevard,
    Port-au-Prince (mailing address is P. O. Box 1761, Port-au-Prince),
    telephone [509] 22-0354 or 22-0368, 22-0200, 22-0612
Flag:
    two equal horizontal bands of blue (top) and red with a centered white
    rectangle bearing the coat of arms, which contains a palm tree flanked by
    flags and two cannons above a scroll bearing the motto L'UNION FAIT LA FORCE
    (Union Makes Strength)

:Haiti Economy

Overview:
    About 75% of the population live in abject poverty. Agriculture is mainly
    small-scale subsistence farming and employs nearly three-fourths of the work
    force. The majority of the population does not have ready access to safe
    drinking water, adequate medical care, or sufficient food. Few social
    assistance programs exist, and the lack of employment opportunities remains
    one of the most critical problems facing the economy, along with soil
    erosion and political instability. Trade sanctions applied by the
    Organization of American States in response to the September 1991 coup
    against President Aristide have further damaged the economy.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $2.7 billion, per capita $440; real growth rate -
    3.0% (1990 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    20% (1990 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    25-50% (1990 est.)
Budget:
    revenues $300 million; expenditures $416 million, including capital
    expenditures of $145 million (1990 est.)
Exports:
    $169 million (f.o.b., 1990 est.)
  commodities:
    light manufactures 65%, coffee 19%, other agriculture 8%, other 8%
  partners:
    US 84%, Italy 4%, France 3%, other industrial countries 6%, less developed
    countries 3% (1987)
Imports:
    $348 million (c.i.f., 1990 est.)
  commodities:
    machines and manufactures 34%, food and beverages 22%, petroleum products
    14%, chemicals 10%, fats and oils 9%
  partners:
    US 64%, Netherlands Antilles 5%, Japan 5%, France 4%, Canada 3%, Germany 3%
    (1987)
External debt:
    $838 million (December 1990)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 0.3% (FY88); accounts for 15% of GDP
Electricity:
    217,000 kW capacity; 468 million kWh produced, 74 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    sugar refining, textiles, flour milling, cement manufacturing, tourism,
    light assembly industries based on imported parts
Agriculture:
    accounts for 28% of GDP and employs 74% of work force; mostly small-scale
    subsistence farms; commercial crops - coffee, mangoes, sugarcane and wood;
    staple crops - rice, corn, sorghum; shortage of wheat flour
Illicit drugs:
    transshipment point for cocaine
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (1970-89), $700 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $770 million
Currency:
    gourde (plural - gourdes); 1 gourde (G) = 100 centimes
Exchange rates:
    gourdes (G) per US$1 - 5.0 (fixed rate)
Fiscal year:
    1 October - 30 September

:Haiti Communications

Railroads:
    40 km 0.760-meter narrow gauge, single-track, privately owned industrial
    line
Highways:
    4,000 km total; 950 km paved, 900 km otherwise improved, 2,150 km unimproved
Inland waterways:
    negligible; less than 100 km navigable
Ports:
    Port-au-Prince, Cap-Haitien
Civil air:
    12 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    13 total, 10 usable; 3 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 1 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 3 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    domestic facilities barely adequate, international facilities slightly
    better; 36,000 telephones; broadcast stations - 33 AM, no FM, 4 TV, 2
    shortwave; 1 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT earth station

:Haiti Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army (including Police), Navy, Air Force
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 1,313,044; 706,221 fit for military service; 59,060 reach
    military age (18) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $34 million, 1.5% of GDP (1988 est.)

:Heard Island and McDonald Islands Geography

Total area:
    412 km2
Land area:
    412 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly less than 2.5 times the size of Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    101.9 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive fishing zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    3 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    antarctic
Terrain:
    Heard Island - bleak and mountainous, with an extinct volcano; McDonald
    Islands - small and rocky
Land use:
    arable land 0%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 0%; forest and
    woodland 0%; other 100%
Environment:
    primarily used as research stations
Note:
    located 4,100 km southwest of Australia in the southern Indian Ocean

:Heard Island and McDonald Islands People

Population:
    uninhabited

:Heard Island and McDonald Islands Government

Long-form name:
    Territory of Heard Island and McDonald Islands
Type:
    territory of Australia administered by the Antarctic Division of the
    Department of Science in Canberra (Australia)
Capital:
    none; administered from Canberra, Australia

:Heard Island and McDonald Islands Economy

Overview:
    no economic activity

:Heard Island and McDonald Islands Communications

Ports:
    none; offshore anchorage only

:Heard Island and McDonald Islands Defense Forces

Note:
    defense is the responsibility of Australia

:Holy See (Vatican City) Geography

Total area:
    0.438 km2
Land area:
    0.438 km2
Comparative area:
    about 0.7 times the size of The Mall in Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    3.2 km; Italy 3.2 km
Coastline:
    none - landlocked
Maritime claims:
    none - landlocked
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    temperate; mild, rainy winters (September to mid-May) with hot, dry summers
    (May to September)
Terrain:
    low hill
Natural resources:
    none
Land use:
    arable land 0%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 0%; forest and
    woodland 0%; other 100%
Environment:
    urban
Note:
    landlocked; enclave of Rome, Italy; world's smallest state; outside the
    Vatican City, 13 buildings in Rome and Castel Gandolfo (the pope's summer
    residence) enjoy extraterritorial rights

:Holy See (Vatican City) People

Population:
    802 (July 1992), growth rate 1.2% (1992)
Nationality:
    no noun or adjectival forms
Ethnic divisions:
    primarily Italians but also Swiss and other nationalities
Religions:
    Roman Catholic
Languages:
    Italian, Latin, and various other languages
Literacy:
    100% (male NA%, female NA%)
Labor force:
    high dignitaries, priests, nuns, guards, and 3,000 lay workers who live
    outside the Vatican
Organized labor:
    Association of Vatican Lay Workers, 1,800 members (1987)

:Holy See (Vatican City) Government

Long-form name:
    State of the Vatican City; note - the Vatican City is the physical seat of
    the Holy See, which is the central government of the Roman Catholic Church
Type:
    monarchical-sacerdotal state
Capital:
    Vatican City
Independence:
    11 February 1929 (from Italy)
Constitution:
    Apostolic Constitution of 1967 (effective 1 March 1968)
National holiday:
    Installation Day of the Pope (John Paul II), 22 October (1978); note - Pope
    John Paul II was elected on 16 October 1978
Executive branch:
    pope
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Pontifical Commission
Judicial branch:
    none; normally handled by Italy
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Pope JOHN PAUL II (Karol WOJTYA; since 16 October 1978)
  Head of Government:
    Secretary of State Archbishop Angelo SODANO
Political parties and leaders:
    none
Suffrage:
    limited to cardinals less than 80 years old
Elections:
  Pope:
    last held 16 October 1978 (next to be held after the death of the current
    pope); results - Karol WOJTYA was elected for life by the College of
    Cardinals
Other political or pressure groups:
    none (exclusive of influence exercised by church officers)
Member of:
    CSCE, IAEA, ICFTU, IMF (observer), INTELSAT, IOM (observer), ITU, OAS
    (observer), UN (observer), UNCTAD, UNHCR, UPU, WIPO, WTO (observer)
Diplomatic representation:
    Apostolic Pro-Nuncio Archbishop Agostino CACCIAVILLAN; 3339 Massachusetts
    Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 333-7121
  US:
    Ambassador Thomas P. MELADY; Embassy at Villino Pacelli, Via Aurelia 294,
    00165 Rome (mailing address is APO AE 09624); telephone [396] 639-0558
Flag:
    two vertical bands of yellow (hoist side) and white with the crossed keys of
    Saint Peter and the papal tiara centered in the white band

:Holy See (Vatican City) Economy

Overview:
    This unique, noncommercial economy is supported financially by contributions
    (known as Peter's Pence) from Roman Catholics throughout the world, the sale
    of postage stamps and tourist mementos, fees for admission to museums, and
    the sale of publications. The incomes and living standards of lay workers
    are comparable to, or somewhat better than, those of counterparts who work
    in the city of Rome.
Budget:
    revenues $92 million; expenditures $178 million, including capital
    expenditures of $NA (1992)
Electricity:
    5,000 kW standby capacity (1990); power supplied by Italy
Industries:
    printing and production of a small amount of mosaics and staff uniforms;
    worldwide banking and financial activities
Currency:
    Vatican lira (plural - lire); 1 Vatican lira (VLit) = 100 centesimi
Exchange rates:
    Vatican lire (VLit) per US$1 - 1,248.4 (March 1992), 1,240.6 (1991), 1,198.1
    (1990), 1,372.1 (1989), 1,301.6 (1988), 1,296.1 (1987); note - the Vatican
    lira is at par with the Italian lira which circulates freely
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Holy See (Vatican City) Communications

Railroads:
    850 m, 750 mm gauge (links with Italian network near the Rome station of
    Saint Peter's)
Highways:
    none; all city streets
Telecommunications:
    broadcast stations - 3 AM, 4 FM, no TV; 2,000-line automatic telephone
    exchange; no communications satellite systems

:Holy See (Vatican City) Defense Forces

Note:
    defense is the responsibility of Italy; Swiss Papal Guards are posted at
    entrances to the Vatican City

:Honduras Geography

Total area:
    112,090 km2
Land area:
    111,890 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than Tennessee
Land boundaries:
    1,520 km; Guatemala 256 km, El Salvador 342 km, Nicaragua 922 km
Coastline:
    820 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    24 nm
  Continental shelf:
    200 m (depth) or to depth of exploitation
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    dispute with El Salvador over several sections of the land boundary; dispute
    over Golfo de Fonseca maritime boundary because of disputed sovereignty of
    islands; unresolved maritime boundary with Nicaragua
Climate:
    subtropical in lowlands, temperate in mountains
Terrain:
    mostly mountains in interior, narrow coastal plains
Natural resources:
    timber, gold, silver, copper, lead, zinc, iron ore, antimony, coal, fish
Land use:
    arable land 14%; permanent crops 2%; meadows and pastures 30%; forest and
    woodland 34%; other 20%; includes irrigated 1%
Environment:
    subject to frequent, but generally mild, earthquakes; damaging hurricanes
    and floods along Caribbean coast; deforestation; soil erosion

:Honduras People

Population:
    5,092,776 (July 1992), growth rate 2.8% (1992)
Birth rate:
    37 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    7 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    -2 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    54 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    65 years male, 68 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    4.8 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Honduran(s); adjective - Honduran
Ethnic divisions:
    mestizo (mixed Indian and European) 90%, Indian 7%, black 2%, white 1%
Religions:
    Roman Catholic about 97%; small Protestant minority
Languages:
    Spanish, Indian dialects
Literacy:
    73% (male 76%, female 71%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    1,300,000; agriculture 62%, services 20%, manufacturing 9%, construction 3%,
    other 6% (1985)
Organized labor:
    40% of urban labor force, 20% of rural work force (1985)

:Honduras Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Honduras
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Tegucigalpa
Administrative divisions:
    18 departments (departamentos, singular - departamento); Atlantida,
    Choluteca, Colon, Comayagua, Copan, Cortes, El Paraiso, Francisco Morazan,
    Gracias a Dios, Intibuca, Islas de la Bahia, La Paz, Lempira, Ocotepeque,
    Olancho, Santa Barbara, Valle, Yoro
Independence:
    15 September 1821 (from Spain)
Constitution:
    11 January 1982, effective 20 January 1982
Legal system:
    rooted in Roman and Spanish civil law; some influence of English common law;
    accepts ICJ jurisdiction, with reservations
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 15 September (1821)
Executive branch:
    president, Council of Ministers (cabinet)
Legislative branch:
    unicameral National Congress (Congreso Nacional)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court of Justice (Corte Suprema de Justica)
Leaders:
  Chief of State and Head of Government:
    President Rafael Leonardo CALLEJAS Romero (since 26 January 1990)
Political parties and leaders:
    Liberal Party (PLH) - faction leaders, Carlos FLORES Facusse (leader of
    Florista Liberal Movement), Carlos MONTOYA (Azconista subfaction), Ramon
    VILLEDA Bermudez and Jorge Arturo REINA (M-Lider faction); National Party
    (PNH), Jose Celin DISCUA, party president; PNH faction leaders - Oswaldo
    RAMOS Soto and Rafael Leonardo CALLEJAS Romero (Monarca faction); National
    Innovation and Unity Party - Social Democrats (PINU-SD), Enrique AGUILAR
    Cerrato Paz; Christian Democratic Party (PDCH), Jorge ILLESCAS; Democratic
    Action (AD), Walter LOPEZ Reyes
Suffrage:
    universal and compulsory at age 18
Elections:
  National Congress:
    last held on 26 November 1989 (next to be held November 1993); results - PNH
    51%, PLH 43%, PDCH 1.9%, PINU-SD 1.5%, other 2.6%; seats - (128 total) PNH
    71, PLH 55, PINU-SD 2
  President:
    last held on 26 November 1989 (next to be held November 1993); results -
    Rafael Leonardo CALLEJAS (PNH) 51%, Carlos FLORES Facusse (PLH) 43.3%, other
    5.7%
Other political or pressure groups:
    National Association of Honduran Campesinos (ANACH), Honduran Council of
    Private Enterprise (COHEP), Confederation of Honduran Workers (CTH),
    National Union of Campesinos (UNC), General Workers Confederation (CGT),
    United Federation of Honduran Workers (FUTH), Committee for the Defense of
    Human Rights in Honduras (CODEH), Coordinating Committee of Popular
    Organizations (CCOP)

:Honduras Government

Member of:
    BCIE, CACM, ECLAC, FAO, G-77, IADB, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, IDA, IFAD, IFC, ILO,
    IMF, IMO, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, IOM, ITU, LAES, LAIA, LORCS, OAS, OPANAL,
    PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Jorge Ramon HERNANDEZ Alcerro; Chancery at 3007 Tilden Street NW,
    Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 966-7702; there are Honduran
    Consulates General in Chicago, Los Angeles, Miami, New Orleans, New York,
    and San Francisco, and Consulates in Baton Rouge, Boston, Detroit, Houston,
    and Jacksonville
  US:
    Ambassador S. Crescencio ARCOS; Embassy at Avenida La Paz, Tegucigalpa
    (mailing address is APO AA 34022); telephone [504] 32-3120
Flag:
    three equal horizontal bands of blue (top), white, and blue with five blue
    five-pointed stars arranged in an X pattern centered in the white band; the
    stars represent the members of the former Federal Republic of Central
    America - Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua;
    similar to the flag of El Salvador, which features a round emblem encircled
    by the words REPUBLICA DE EL SALVADOR EN LA AMERICA CENTRAL centered in the
    white band; also similar to the flag of Nicaragua, which features a triangle
    encircled by the word REPUBLICA DE NICARAGUA on top and AMERICA CENTRAL on
    the bottom, centered in the white band

:Honduras Economy

Overview:
    Honduras is one of the poorest countries in the Western Hemisphere.
    Agriculture, the most important sector of the economy, accounts for more
    than 25% of GDP, employs 62% of the labor force, and produces two-thirds of
    exports. Productivity remains low. Industry, still in its early stages,
    employs nearly 9% of the labor force, accounts for 15% of GDP, and generates
    20% of exports. The service sectors, including public administration,
    account for 50% of GDP and employ nearly 20% of the labor force. Basic
    problems facing the economy include rapid population growth, high
    unemployment, sharply increased inflation, a lack of basic services, a large
    and inefficient public sector, and the dependence of the export sector
    mostly on coffee and bananas, which are subject to sharp price fluctuations.
    Despite government efforts at reform and large-scale foreign assistance, the
    economy still is unable to take advantage of its sizable natural resources.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $5.2 billion, per capita $1,050; real growth rate
    - 0.3% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    26% (1991 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    15% unemployed, 30-40% underemployed (1989)
Budget:
    revenues $1.4 billion; expenditures $1.9 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $511 million (1990 est.)
Exports:
    $1.0 billion (f.o.b., 1991)
  commodities:
    bananas, coffee, shrimp, lobster, minerals, lumber
  partners:
    US 52%, Germany 11%, Japan, Italy, Belgium
Imports:
    $1.3 billion (c.i.f. 1991)
  commodities:
    machinery and transport equipment, chemical products, manufactured goods,
    fuel and oil, foodstuffs
  partners:
    US 39%, Japan 9%, CACM, Venezuela, Mexico
External debt:
    $2.8 billion (1990)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 2.9% (1989); accounts for 15% of GDP
Electricity:
    575,000 kW capacity; 1,850 million kWh produced, 374 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    agricultural processing (sugar and coffee), textiles, clothing, wood
    products
Agriculture:
    most important sector, accounting for more than 25% of GDP, over 60% of the
    labor force, and two-thirds of exports; principal products include bananas,
    coffee, timber, beef, citrus fruit, shrimp; importer of wheat
Illicit drugs:
    illicit producer of cannabis, cultivated on small plots and used principally
    for local consumption; transshipment point for cocaine
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $1.4 billion; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $1.1 billion
Currency:
    lempira (plural - lempiras); 1 lempira (L) = 100 centavos

:Honduras Economy

Exchange rates:
    lempiras (L) per US$1 - 5.4 (fixed rate); 5.70 parallel black-market rate
    (November 1990)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Honduras Communications

Railroads:
    785 km total; 508 km 1.067-meter gauge, 277 km 0.914-meter gauge
Highways:
    8,950 km total; 1,700 km paved, 5,000 km otherwise improved, 2,250 km
    unimproved earth
Inland waterways:
    465 km navigable by small craft
Ports:
    Puerto Castilla, Puerto Cortes, San Lorenzo
Merchant marine:
    201 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 629,134 GRT/939,289 DWT; includes 2
    passenger-cargo, 127 cargo, 17 refrigerated - cargo, - 7 - container, - 2 -
    roll-on/roll-off cargo, 19 petroleum tanker, 2 chemical tanker, 3
    specialized tanker, 1 vehicle carrier, 18 bulk, 2 passenger, 1 short-sea
    passenger; note - a flag of convenience registry; Republics of the former
    USSR own 10 ships under the Honduran flag
Civil air:
    6 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    171 total, 133 usable; 8 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 4 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 12 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    improved, but still inadequate; connection into Central American Microwave
    System; 35,100 telephones; broadcast stations - 176 AM, no FM, 28 TV, 7
    shortwave; 2 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT earth stations

:Honduras Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Navy (including Marines), Air Force, Public Security Forces (FUSEP)
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 1,148,376; 684,375 fit for military service; 57,028 reach
    military age (18) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $43.4 million, about 1% of GDP (1992 est.)

:Hong Kong Geography

Total area:
    1,040 km2
Land area:
    990 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly less than six times the size of Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    30 km; China 30 km
Coastline:
    733 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive fishing zone:
    3 nm
  Territorial sea:
    3 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    tropical monsoon; cool and humid in winter, hot and rainy from spring
    through summer, warm and sunny in fall
Terrain:
    hilly to mountainous with steep slopes; lowlands in north
Natural resources:
    outstanding deepwater harbor, feldspar
Land use:
    arable land 7%; permanent crops 1%; meadows and pastures 1%; forest and
    woodland 12%; other 79%; includes irrigated 3%
Environment:
    more than 200 islands; occasional typhoons

:Hong Kong People

Population:
    5,889,095 (July 1992), growth rate 0.6% (1992)
Birth rate:
    13 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    5 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    - 2 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    7 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    76 years male, 83 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    1.4 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    adjective - Hong Kong
Ethnic divisions:
    Chinese 98%, other 2%
Religions:
    eclectic mixture of local religions 90%, Christian 10%
Languages:
    Chinese (Cantonese), English
Literacy:
    77% (male 90%, female 64%) age 15 and over having ever attended school
    (1971)
Labor force:
    2,800,000 (1990); manufacturing 28.5%, wholesale and retail trade,
    restaurants, and hotels 27.9%, services 17.7%, financing, insurance, and
    real estate 9.2%, transport and communications 4.5%, construction 2.5%,
    other 9.7% (1989)
Organized labor:
    16% of labor force (1990)

:Hong Kong Government

Long-form name:
    none; abbreviated HK
Type:
    dependent territory of the UK; scheduled to revert to China in 1997
Capital:
    Victoria
Administrative divisions:
    none (dependent territory of the UK)
Independence:
    none (dependent territory of the UK); the UK signed an agreement with China
    on 19 December 1984 to return Hong Kong to China on 1 July 1997; in the
    joint declaration, China promises to respect Hong Kong's existing social and
    economic systems and lifestyle for 50 years after transition
Constitution:
    unwritten; partly statutes, partly common law and practice; new Basic Law
    approved in March 1990 in preparation for 1997
Legal system:
    based on English common law
National holiday:
    Liberation Day, 29 August (1945)
Executive branch:
    British monarch, governor, chief secretary of the Executive Council
Legislative branch:
    Legislative Council
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952)
  Head of Government:
    Governor-designate Chris PATTEN (since July 1992); Chief Secretary Sir David
    Robert FORD (since February 1987)
Suffrage:
    direct election - universal at age 21 as a permanent resident living in the
    territory of Hong Kong for the past seven years; indirect election - limited
    to about 100,000 professionals of electoral college and functional
    constituencies
Elections:
  Legislative Council:
    indirect elections last held 12 September 1991 and direct elections were
    held 15 September 1991 (next to be held for the first time in September
    1995); results - percent of vote by party NA; seats - (60 total; 21
    indirectly elected by functional constituencies, 18 directly elected, 18
    appointed by governor, 3 ex officio members); indirect elections - number of
    seats by functional constituency NA; direct elections - UDHK 12, Meeting
    Point 3, ADPL 1, other 2
Communists:
    5,000 (est.) cadres affiliated with Communist Party of China
Other political or pressure groups:
    Federation of Trade Unions (pro-China), Hong Kong and Kowloon Trade Union
    Council (pro-Taiwan), Confederation of Trade Unions (prodemocracy), Hong
    Kong General Chamber of Commerce, Chinese General Chamber of Commerce
    (pro-China), Federation of Hong Kong Industries, Chinese Manufacturers'
    Association of Hong Kong, Hong Kong Professional Teachers' Union, Hong Kong
    Alliance in Support of the Patriotic Democratic Movement in China
Member of:
    APEC, AsDB, CCC, ESCAP (associate), GATT, ICFTU, IMO (associate), IOC, ISO
    (correspondent), WCL, WMO

:Hong Kong Government

Diplomatic representation:
    as a dependent territory of the UK, the interests of Hong Kong in the US are
    represented by the UK
  US:
    Consul General Richard L. WILLIAMS; Consulate General at 26 Garden Road,
    Hong Kong (mailing address is Box 30, Hong Kong, or FPO AP 96522-0002);
    telephone [852] 239-011
Flag:
    blue with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side quadrant with the Hong
    Kong coat of arms on a white disk centered on the outer half of the flag;
    the coat of arms contains a shield (bearing two junks below a crown) held by
    a lion (representing the UK) and a dragon (representing China) with another
    lion above the shield and a banner bearing the words HONG KONG below the
    shield

:Hong Kong Economy

Overview:
    Hong Kong has a bustling free market economy with few tariffs or nontariff
    barriers. Natural resources are limited, and food and raw materials must be
    imported. Manufacturing accounts for about 18% of GDP, employs 28% of the
    labor force, and exports about 90% of its output. Real GDP growth averaged a
    remarkable 8% in 1987-88, then slowed to 2.5-3.0% in 1989-90. Unemployment,
    which has been declining since the mid-1980s, is now about 2%. A shortage of
    labor continues to put upward pressure on prices and the cost of living.
    Short-term prospects remain solid so long as major trading partners continue
    to be reasonably prosperous. The crackdown in China in 1989-91 casts a
    shadow over the longer term economic outlook.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $80.9 billion, per capita $13,800; real growth
    rate 3.8% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    12.0% (1991 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    2.0% (1991 est.)
Budget:
    $8.8 billion (FY90)
Exports:
    $82.0 billion (f.o.b., 1990), including reexports of $53.1 billion
  commodities:
    clothing, textiles, yarn and fabric, footwear, electrical appliances,
    watches and clocks, toys
  partners:
    China 25%, US 24%, Germany 7%, Japan 6%, UK 2%, (1990)
Imports:
    $82.4 billion (c.i.f., 1990)
  commodities:
    foodstuffs, transport equipment, raw materials, semimanufactures, petroleum
  partners:
    China 37%, Japan 16%, Taiwan 9%, US 8% (1990)
External debt:
    $9.5 billion (December 1990 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 4% 1991 (est)
Electricity:
    8,600,000 kW capacity; 25,637 million kWh produced, 4,378 kWh per capita
    (1991)
Industries:
    textiles, clothing, tourism, electronics, plastics, toys, watches, clocks
Agriculture:
    minor role in the economy; rice, vegetables, dairy products; less than 20%
    self-sufficient; shortages of rice, wheat, water
Illicit drugs:
    a hub for Southeast Asian heroin trade; transshipment and major financial
    and money-laundering center
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-87), $152 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $923 million
Currency:
    Hong Kong dollar (plural - dollars); 1 Hong Kong dollar (HK$) = 100 cents
Exchange rates:
    Hong Kong dollars (HK$) per US$ - 7.800 (1991), 7.790 (1990), 7.800 (1989),
    7.810 (1988), 7.760 (1987); note - linked to the US dollar at the rate of
    about 7.8 HK$ per 1 US$ since 1985
Fiscal year:
    1 April - 31 March

:Hong Kong Communications

Railroads:
    35 km 1.435-meter standard gauge, government owned
Highways:
    1,484 km total; 794 km paved, 306 km gravel, crushed stone, or earth
Ports:
    Hong Kong
Merchant marine:
    142 ships (1,000 GRT or over), totaling 5,035,223 GRT/8,598,134 DWT;
    includes 1 passenger, 1 short-sea passenger, 15 cargo, 5 refrigerated cargo,
    26 container, 13 petroleum tanker, 1 chemical tanker, 6 combination ore/oil,
    5 liquefied gas, 68 bulk, 1 combination bulk; note - a flag of convenience
    registry; ships registered in Hong Kong fly the UK flag, and an estimated
    500 Hong Kong - owned ships are registered elsewhere
Civil air:
    16 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    2 total; 2 usable; 2 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways over
    3,659 m; 1 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; none with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    modern facilities provide excellent domestic and international services;
    3,000,000 telephones; microwave transmission links and extensive optical
    fiber transmission network; broadcast stations - 6 AM, 6 FM, 4 TV; 1 British
    Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) repeater station and 1 British Forces
    Broadcasting Service repeater station; 2,500,000 radio receivers; 1,312,000
    TV sets (1,224,000 color TV sets); satellite earth stations - 1 Pacific
    Ocean INTELSAT and 2 Indian Ocean INTELSAT; coaxial cable to Guangzhou,
    China; links to 5 international submarine cables providing access to ASEAN
    member nations, Japan, Taiwan, Australia, Middle East, and Western Europe

:Hong Kong Defense Forces

Branches:
    Headquarters of British Forces, Royal Navy, Royal Air Force, Royal Hong Kong
    Auxiliary Air Force, Royal Hong Kong Police Force
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 1,732,360; 1,334,923 fit for military service; 46,285 reach
    military age (18) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $300 million, 0.5% of GDP (1989 est.); this
    represents one-fourth of the total cost of defending itself, the remainder
    being paid by the UK
Note:
    defense is the responsibility of the UK

:Howland Island Geography

Total area:
    1.6 km2
Land area:
    1.6 km2
Comparative area:
    about 2.7 times the size of the Mall in Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    6.4 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    12 nm
  Continental shelf:
    200 m (depth)
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    equatorial; scant rainfall, constant wind, burning sun
Terrain:
    low-lying, nearly level, sandy, coral island surrounded by a narrow fringing
    reef; depressed central area
Natural resources:
    guano (deposits worked until late 1800s)
Land use:
    arable land 0%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 0%; forest and
    woodland 5%; other 95%
Environment:
    almost totally covered with grasses, prostrate vines, and low-growing
    shrubs; small area of trees in the center; lacks fresh water; primarily a
    nesting, roosting, and foraging habitat for seabirds, shorebirds, and marine
    wildlife; feral cats
Note:
    remote location 2,575 km southwest of Honolulu in the North Pacific Ocean,
    just north of the Equator, about halfway between Hawaii and Australia

:Howland Island People

Population:
    uninhabited
Population:
  note:
    American civilians evacuated in 1942 after Japanese air and naval attacks
    during World War II; occupied by US military during World War II, but
    abandoned after the war; public entry is by special-use permit only and
    generally restricted to scientists and educators

:Howland Island Government

Long-form name:
    none
Type:
    unincorporated territory of the US administered by the Fish and Wildlife
    Service of the US Department of the Interior as part of the National
    Wildlife Refuge System
Capital:
    none; administered from Washington, DC

:Howland Island Economy

Overview:
    no economic activity

:Howland Island Communications

Ports:
    none; offshore anchorage only, one boat landing area along the middle of the
    west coast
Airports:
    airstrip constructed in 1937 for scheduled refueling stop on the
    round-the-world flight of Amelia Earhart and Fred Noonan - they left Lae,
    New Guinea, for Howland Island, but were never seen again; the airstrip is
    no longer serviceable
Note:
    Earhart Light is a day beacon near the middle of the west coast that was
    partially destroyed during World War II, but has since been rebuilt in
    memory of famed aviatrix Amelia Earhart

:Howland Island Defense Forces

Note:
    defense is the responsibility of the US; visited annually by the US Coast
    Guard

:Hungary Geography

Total area:
    93,030 km2
Land area:
    92,340 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than Indiana
Land boundaries:
    2,113 km; Austria 366 km, Slovenia 82 km, Czechoslovakia 676 km, Romania 443
    km, Croatia 292 km, Serbia and Montenegro 151 km, Ukraine 103 km
Coastline:
    none - landlocked
Maritime claims:
    none - landlocked
Disputes:
    Gabcikovo Dam dispute with Czechoslovakia
Climate:
    temperate; cold, cloudy, humid winters; warm summers
Terrain:
    mostly flat to rolling plains
Natural resources:
    bauxite, coal, natural gas, fertile soils
Land use:
    arable land 54%; permanent crops 3%; meadows and pastures 14%; forest and
    woodland 18%; other 11%; includes irrigated 2%
Environment:
    levees are common along many streams, but flooding occurs almost every year
Note:
    landlocked; strategic location astride main land routes between Western
    Europe and Balkan Peninsula as well as between Ukraine and Mediterranean
    basin

:Hungary People

Population:
    10,333,327 (July 1992), growth rate - 0.1% (1992)
Birth rate:
    12 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    13 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    14 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    66 years male, 75 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    1.8 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Hungarian(s); adjective - Hungarian
Ethnic divisions:
    Hungarian 96.6%, Gypsy 5.8%, German 1.6%, Slovak 1.1%, Southern Slav 0.3%,
    Romanian 0.2%
Religions:
    Roman Catholic 67.5%, Calvinist 20.0%, Lutheran 5.0%, atheist and other 7.5%
Languages:
    Hungarian 98.2%, other 1.8%
Literacy:
    99% (male 99%, female 98%) age 15 and over can read and write (1980)
Labor force:
    5.4 million; services, trade, government, and other 43.2%, industry 30.9%,
    agriculture 18.8%, construction 7.1% (1991)
Organized labor:
    45-55% of labor force; Central Council of Hungarian Trade Unions (SZOT)
    includes 19 affiliated unions, all controlled by the government; independent
    unions legal; may be as many as 12 small independent unions in operation

:Hungary Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Hungary
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Budapest
Administrative divisions:
    19 counties (megyek, singular - megye) and 1 capital city* (fovaros);
    Bacs-Kiskun, Baranya, Bekes, Borsod-Abauj-Zemplen, Budapest*, Csongrad,
    Fejer, Gyor-Moson-Sopron, Hajdu-Bihar, Heves, Jasz-Nagykun-Szolnok,
    Komarom-Esztergom, Nograd, Pest, Somogy, Szabolcs-Szatmar-Bereg, Tolna, Vas,
    Veszprem, Zala
Independence:
    1001, unification by King Stephen I
Constitution:
    18 August 1949, effective 20 August 1949, revised 19 April 1972; 18 October
    1989 revision ensured legal rights for individuals and constitutional checks
    on the authority of the prime minister and also established the principle of
    parliamentary oversight
Legal system:
    in process of revision, moving toward rule of law based on Western model
National holiday:
    October 23 (1956); commemorates the Hungarian uprising
Executive branch:
    president, prime minister
Legislative branch:
    unicameral National Assembly (Orszaggyules)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court, may be restructured as part of ongoing government overhaul
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Arpad GONCZ (since 3 August 1990; previously interim President
    from 2 May 1990)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Jozsef ANTALL (since 23 May 1990)
Political parties and leaders:
    Democratic Forum, Jozsef ANTALL, chairman; Dr. Lajos FUR, acting president;
    Free Democrats, Peter TOLGYESSY, chairman; Independent Smallholders, Jozsef
    TORGYAN, president; Hungarian Socialist Party (MSP), Gyula HORN, chairman;
    Young Democrats, Gabor FODOR, head; Christian Democrats, Dr. Lazlo SURJAN,
    president; note - the Hungarian Socialist (Communist) Workers' Party (MSZMP)
    renounced Communism and became the Hungarian Socialist Party (MSP) in
    October 1989; there is still a small (fringe) MSZMP
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  President:
    last held 3 August 1990 (next to be held August 1994); results - President
    GONCZ elected by popular vote; note - President GONCZ was elected by the
    National Assembly with a total of 294 votes out of 304 as interim President
    from 2 May 1990 until elected President
  National Assembly:
    last held on 25 March 1990 (first round, with the second round held 8 April
    1990); results - percent of vote by party NA; seats - (386 total) Democratic
    Forum 162, Free Democrats 90, Independent Smallholders 45, Hungarian
    Socialist Party (MSP) 33, Young Democrats 22, Christian Democrats 21,
    independents or jointly sponsored candidates 13
Communists:
    fewer than 100,000 (December 1989)

:Hungary Government

Member of:
    BIS, CCC, CE, CSCE, ECE, FAO, G-9, GATT, HG, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, IDA, IFC,
    ILO, IMF, IMO, INTERPOL, IOC, IOM (observer), ISO, ITU, LORCS, NACC, NSG,
    PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNIIMOG, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Pal TAR; Chancery at 3910 Shoemaker Street NW, Washington, DC
    20008; telephone (202) 362-6730; there is a Hungarian Consulate General in
    New York
  US:
    Ambassador Charles THOMAS; Embassy at V. Szabadsag Ter 12, Budapest (mailing
    address is APO AE 09213-5270); telephone [36] (1) 112-6450; FAX 132-8934
Flag:
    three equal horizontal bands of red (top), white, and green

:Hungary Economy

Overview:
    Hungary is in the midst of a difficult transition between a command and a
    market economy. Agriculture is an important sector, providing sizable export
    earnings and meeting domestic food needs. Industry accounts for about 40% of
    GDP and 30% of employment. Hungary claims that less than 20% of foreign
    trade is now with former CEMA countries, while about 70% is with OECD
    members. Hungary's economic reform programs during the Communist era gave it
    a head start in creating a market economy and attracting foreign investment.
    In 1990, Hungary received half of all foreign investment in Eastern Europe
    and in 1991 received the largest single share. The growing private sector
    accounts for one-quarter to one-third of national output according to
    unofficial estimates. Privatization of state enterprises is progressing,
    although excessive redtape, bureaucratic oversight, and uncertainties about
    pricing have slowed the process. Escalating unemployment and high rates of
    inflation may impede efforts to speed up privatization and budget reform,
    while Hungary's heavy foreign debt will make the government reluctant to
    introduce full convertability of the forint before 1993.
GDP:
    purchasing power equivalent - $60.1 billion, per capita $5,700; real growth
    rate - 7% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    34% (1991 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    8.0% (1991)
Budget:
    revenues $12.7 billion; expenditures $13.6 billion (1992 planned)
Exports:
    $10.2 billion (f.o.b. 1991)
  commodities:
    capital goods 25.9%, foods 23%, consumer goods 16.5%, fuels 2.4%, other
    32.2%
  partners:
    USSR and Eastern Europe 31.9%, EC 32.2%, EFTA 12% (1990)
Imports:
    $11.7 billion (f.o.b., 1991)
  commodities:
    capital goods 31.6%, fuels 13.8%, manufactured consumer goods 14.6%,
    agriculture 6%, other 34.0%
  partners:
    USSR and Eastern Europe 34%, EC 31%, EFTA 15.4%
External debt:
    $22.7 billion (January 1991)
Industrial production:
    growth rate - 20% (1991 est.)
Electricity:
    6,967,000 kW capacity; 28,376 million kWh produced, 2,750 kWh per capita
    (1990)
Industries:
    mining, metallurgy, engineering industries, processed foods, textiles,
    chemicals (especially pharmaceuticals), trucks, buses
Agriculture:
    including forestry, accounts for about 15% of GDP and 19% of employment;
    highly diversified crop-livestock farming; principal crops - wheat, corn,
    sunflowers, potatoes, sugar beets; livestock - hogs, cattle, poultry, dairy
    products; self-sufficient in food output
Illicit drugs:
    transshipment point for Southeast Asia heroin transiting the Balkan route

:Hungary Economy

Economic aid:
    recipient - $9.1 billion in assistance from OECD countries (from 1st quarter
    1990 to end of 2nd quarter 1991)
Currency:
    forint (plural - forints); 1 forint (Ft) = 100 filler
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Hungary Communications

Railroads:
    7,765 km total; 7,508 km 1.435-meter standard gauge, 222 km narrow gauge
    (mostly 0.760-meter), 35 km 1.520-meter broad gauge; 1,147 km double track,
    2,161 km electrified; all government owned (1991)
Highways:
    130,014 km total; 29,715 km national highway system - 26,834 km asphalt, 142
    km concrete, 51 km stone and road brick, 2,276 km macadam, 412 km unpaved;
    58,495 km country roads (66% unpaved), and 41,804 km (est.) other roads (70%
    unpaved) (1988)
Inland waterways:
    1,622 km (1988)
Pipelines:
    crude oil 1,204 km; petroleum products 630 km; natural gas 3,895 km (1986)
Ports:
    Budapest and Dunaujvaros are river ports on the Danube; maritime outlets are
    Rostock (Germany), Gdansk (Poland), Gdynia (Poland), Szczecin (Poland),
    Galati (Romania), and Braila (Romania)
Merchant marine:
    14 cargo ships (1,000 GRT or over) and 1 bulk totaling 85,489 GRT/119,520
    DWT
Civil air:
    28 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    90 total, 90 usable; 20 with permanent-surface runways; 2 with runways over
    3,659 m; 10 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 15 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    automatic telephone network based on radio relay system; 1.9 million phones;
    telephone density is at 17 per 100 inhabitants; 49% of all phones are in
    Budapest; 12-15 year wait for a phone; 16,000 telex lines (June 1990);
    broadcast stations - 32 AM, 15 FM, 41 TV (8 Soviet TV repeaters); 4.2
    million TVs (1990); 1 satellite ground station using INTELSAT and
    Intersputnik

:Hungary Defense Forces

Branches:
    Ground Forces, Air and Air Defense Forces, Border Guard, Territorial Defense
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 2,619,277; 2,092,867 fit for military service; 87,469 reach
    military age (18) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - 60.8 billion forints, 1.7% of GNP (1992 est.);
    note - conversion of defense expenditures into US dollars using the current
    exchange rate would produce misleading results

:Iceland Geography

Total area:
    103,000 km2
Land area:
    100,250 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than Kentucky
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    4,988 km
Maritime claims:
  Continental shelf:
    edge of continental margin or 200 nm
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    Rockall continental shelf dispute involving Denmark, Ireland, and the UK
    (Ireland and the UK have signed a boundary agreement in the Rockall area)
Climate:
    temperate; moderated by North Atlantic Current; mild, windy winters; damp,
    cool summers
Terrain:
    mostly plateau interspersed with mountain peaks, icefields; coast deeply
    indented by bays and fiords
Natural resources:
    fish, hydroelectric and geothermal power, diatomite
Land use:
    arable land NEGL%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 23%; forest and
    woodland 1%; other 76%
Environment:
    subject to earthquakes and volcanic activity
Note:
    strategic location between Greenland and Europe; westernmost European
    country

:Iceland People

Population:
    259,012 (July 1992), growth rate 0.9% (1992)
Birth rate:
    18 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    7 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    -2 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    4 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    76 years male, 81 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    2.2 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Icelander(s); adjective - Icelandic
Ethnic divisions:
    homogeneous mixture of descendants of Norwegians and Celts
Religions:
    Evangelical Lutheran 96%, other Protestant and Roman Catholic 3%, none 1%
    (1988)
Languages:
    Icelandic
Literacy:
    100% (male NA%, female NA%) age 15 and over can read and write (1976 est.)
Labor force:
    134,429; commerce, finance, and services 55.4%, other manufacturing 14.3%.,
    agriculture 5.8%, fish processing 7.9%, fishing 5.0% (1986)
Organized labor:
    60% of labor force

:Iceland Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Iceland
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Reykjavik
Administrative divisions:
    23 counties (syslar, singular - sysla) and 14 independent towns*
    (kaupstadhir, singular - kaupstadhur); Akranes*, Akureyri*, Arnessysla,
    Austur-Bardhastrandarsysla, Austur-Hunavatnssysla, Austur-Skaftafellssysla,
    Borgarfjardharsysla, Dalasysla, Eyjafjardharsysla, Gullbringusysla,
    Hafnarfjordhur*, Husavik*, Isafjordhur*, Keflavik*, Kjosarsysla, Kopavogur*,
    Myrasysla, Neskaupstadhur*, Nordhur-Isafjardharsysla, Nordhur-Mulasys-la,
    Nordhur-Thingeyjarsysla, Olafsfjordhur*, Rangarvallasysla, Reykjavik*,
    Saudharkrokur*, Seydhisfjordhur*, Siglufjordhur*, Skagafjardharsysla,
    Snaefellsnes-og Hnappadalssysla, Strandasysla, Sudhur-Mulasysla,
    Sudhur-Thingeyjarsysla, Vesttmannaeyjar*, Vestur-Bardhastrandarsysla,
    Vestur-Hunavatnssysla, Vestur-Isafjardharsysla, Vestur-Skaftafellssysla
Independence:
    17 June 1944 (from Denmark)
Constitution:
    16 June 1944, effective 17 June 1944
Legal system:
    civil law system based on Danish law; does not accept compulsory ICJ
    jurisdiction
National holiday:
    Anniversary of the Establishment of the Republic, 17 June (1944)
Executive branch:
    president, prime minister, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Parliament (Althing)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court (Haestirettur)
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Vigdis FINNBOGADOTTIR (since 1 August 1980)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister David ODDSSON (since 30 April 1991)
Political parties and leaders:
    Independence Party (conservative), David ODDSSON; Progressive Party,
    Steingrimur HERMANNSSON; Social Democratic Party, Jon Baldvin HANNIBALSSON;
    People's Alliance (left socialist), Olafur Ragnar GRIMSSON; Citizens Party
    (conservative nationalist), Julius SOLNES; Women's List
Suffrage:
    universal at age 20
Elections:
  President:
    last held on 29 June 1980 (next scheduled for June 1992); results - there
    were no elections in 1984 and 1988 as President Vigdis FINNBOGADOTTIR was
    unopposed
  Althing:
    last held on 20 April 1991 (next to be held by April 1995); results -
    Independence Party 38.6%, Progressive Party 18.9%, Social Democratic Party
    15.5%, People's Alliance 14.4%, Womens List 8.13%, Liberals 1.2%, other
    3.27% seats - (63 total) Independence 26, Progressive 13, Social Democratic
    10, People's Alliance 9, Womens List 5

:Iceland Government

Member of:
    BIS, CCC, CE, CSCE, EBRD, ECE, EFTA, FAO, GATT, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC,
    ICFTU, IDA, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, ISO
    (correspondent), ITU, LORCS, NACC, NATO, NC, NEA, NIB, OECD, PCA, UN,
    UNCTAD, UNESCO, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Tomas A. TOMASSON; Chancery at 2022 Connecticut Avenue NW,
    Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 265-6653 through 6655; there is an
    Icelandic Consulate General in New York
  US:
    Ambassador Charles E. COBB, Jr.; Embassy at Laufasvegur 21, Box 40,
    Reykjavik (mailing address is FPO AE 09728-0340); telephone [354] (1) 29100
Flag:
    blue with a red cross outlined in white that extends to the edges of the
    flag; the vertical part of the cross is shifted to the hoist side in the
    style of the Dannebrog (Danish flag)

:Iceland Economy

Overview:
    Iceland's prosperous Scandinavian-type economy is basically capitalistic,
    but with extensive welfare measures, low unemployment, and comparatively
    even distribution of income. The economy is heavily dependent on the fishing
    industry, which provides nearly 75% of export earnings. In the absence of
    other natural resources, Iceland's economy is vulnerable to changing world
    fish prices. The economic improvements resulting from climbing fish prices
    in 1990 and a noninflationary labor agreement probably will be reversed by
    tighter fish quotas and a delay in the construction of an aluminum smelting
    plant. The conservative government's economic priorities include reducing
    the budget and current account deficits, containing inflation, revising
    agricultural and fishing policies, diversifying the economy, and tying the
    krona to the EC's European currency unit in 1993. The fishing industries -
    notably the shrimp industry - are experiencing a series of bankruptcies and
    mergers. Inflation has continued to drop sharply from 20% in 1989 to about
    7.5% in 1991 and possibly 3% in 1992, while unemployment is expected to
    increase to 2.5%. GDP is expected to contract by nearly 4% in 1992.
GDP:
    purchasing power equivalent - $4.2 billion, per capita $16,200; real growth
    rate 0.3% (1991)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    7.5% (1991)
Unemployment rate:
    1.8% (1991)
Budget:
    revenues $1.7 billion; expenditures $1.9 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $NA million (1991 est.)
Exports:
    $1.6 billion (f.o.b., 1991)
  commodities:
    fish and fish products, animal products, aluminum, diatomite
  partners:
    EC 67.7% (UK 25.3%, FRG 12.7%), US 9.9%, Japan 6% (1990)
Imports:
    $1.7 billion (c.i.f., 1991)
  commodities:
    machinery and transportation equipment, petroleum, foodstuffs, textiles
  partners:
    EC 49.8% (FRG 12.4%, Denmark 8.6%, UK 8.1%), US 14.4%, Japan 5.6% (1990)
External debt:
    $3 billion (1990)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 1.75% (1991 est.)
Electricity:
    1,063,000 kW capacity; 5,165 million kWh produced, 20,780 kWh per capita
    (1991)
Industries:
    fish processing, aluminum smelting, ferro-silicon production, hydropower
Agriculture:
    accounts for about 25% of GDP (including fishing); fishing is most important
    economic activity, contributing nearly 75% to export earnings; principal
    crops - potatoes and turnips; livestock - cattle, sheep; self-sufficient in
    crops; fish catch of about 1.4 million metric tons in 1989
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-81), $19.1 million
Currency:
    krona (plural - kronur); 1 Icelandic krona (IKr) = 100 aurar

:Iceland Economy

Exchange rates:
    Icelandic kronur (IKr) per US$1 - 57.277 (January 1992), 58.996 (1991),
    58.284 (1990), 57.042 (1989), 43.014 (1988), 38.677 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Iceland Communications

Highways:
    12,343 km total; 166 km bitumen and concrete; 1,284 km bituminous treated
    and gravel; 10,893 km earth
Ports:
    Reykjavik, Akureyri, Hafnarfjordhur, Keflavik, Seydhisfjordhur,
    Siglufjordhur, Vestmannaeyjar
Merchant marine:
    12 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 37,969 GRT/57,060 DWT; includes 5
    cargo, 3 refrigerated cargo, 2 roll-on/roll-off cargo, 1 petroleum tanker, 1
    chemical tanker
Civil air:
    20 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    94 total, 89 usable; 4 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 1 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 12 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    adequate domestic service; coaxial and fiber-optical cables and radio relay
    for trunk network; 135,000 telephones; broadcast stations - 19 AM, 30 (43
    repeaters) FM, 13 (132 repeaters) TV; 2 submarine cables; 1 Atlantic Ocean
    INTELSAT earth station carries majority of international traffic

:Iceland Defense Forces

Branches:
    no armed forces; Police, Coast Guard; Iceland's defense is provided by the
    US-manned Icelandic Defense Force (IDF) headquartered at Keflavik
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 69,072; 61,556 fit for military service; no conscription or
    compulsory military service
Defense expenditures:
    none

:India Geography

Total area:
    3,287,590 km2
Land area:
    2,973,190 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly more than one-third the size of the US
Land boundaries:
    14,103 km; Bangladesh 4,053 km, Bhutan 605 km, Burma 1,463 km, China 3,380,
    Nepal 1,690 km, Pakistan 2,912 km
Coastline:
    7,000 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    24 nm
  Continental shelf:
    edge of continental margin or 200 nm
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    boundaries with Bangladesh, China, and Pakistan; water sharing problems with
    downstream riparians, Bangladesh over the Ganges and Pakistan over the Indus
Climate:
    varies from tropical monsoon in south to temperate in north
Terrain:
    upland plain (Deccan Plateau) in south, flat to rolling plain along the
    Ganges, deserts in west, Himalayas in north
Natural resources:
    coal (fourth-largest reserves in the world), iron ore, manganese, mica,
    bauxite, titanium ore, chromite, natural gas, diamonds, crude oil, limestone
Land use:
    arable land 55%; permanent crops 1%; meadows and pastures 4%; forest and
    woodland 23%; other 17%; includes irrigated 13%
Environment:
    droughts, flash floods, severe thunderstorms common; deforestation; soil
    erosion; overgrazing; air and water pollution; desertification
Note:
    dominates South Asian subcontinent; near important Indian Ocean trade routes

:India People

Population:
    886,362,180 (July 1992), growth rate 1.9% (1992)
Birth rate:
    30 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    11 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    81 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    57 years male, 58 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    3.7 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Indian(s); adjective - Indian
Ethnic divisions:
    Indo-Aryan 72%, Dravidian 25%, Mongoloid and other 3%
Religions:
    Hindu 82.6%, Muslim 11.4%, Christian 2.4%, Sikh 2.0%, Buddhist 0.7%, Jains
    0.5%, other 0.4%
Languages:
    Hindi, English, and 14 other official languages - Bengali, Telugu, Marathi,
    Tamil, Urdu, Gujarati, Malayalam, Kannada, Oriya, Punjabi, Assamese,
    Kashmiri, Sindhi, and Sanskrit; 24 languages spoken by a million or more
    persons each; numerous other languages and dialects, for the most part
    mutually unintelligible; Hindi is the national language and primary tongue
    of 30% of the people; English enjoys associate status but is the most
    important language for national, political, and commercial communication;
    Hindustani, a popular variant of Hindi/Urdu, is spoken widely throughout
    northern India
Literacy:
    48% (male 62%, female 34%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    284,400,000; 67% agriculture (FY85)
Organized labor:
    less than 5% of the labor force

:India Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of India
Type:
    federal republic
Capital:
    New Delhi
Administrative divisions:
    25 states and 7 union territories*; Andaman and Nicobar Islands*, Andhra
    Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Chandigarh*, Dadra and Nagar
    Haveli*, Daman and Diu*, Delhi*, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh,
    Jammu and Kashmir, Karnataka, Kerala, Lakshadweep*, Madhya Pradesh,
    Maharashtra, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Orissa, Pondicherry*,
    Punjab, Rajasthan, Sikkim, Tamil Nadu, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal
Independence:
    15 August 1947 (from UK)
Constitution:
    26 January 1950
Legal system:
    based on English common law; limited judicial review of legislative acts;
    accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with reservations
National holiday:
    Anniversary of the Proclamation of the Republic, 26 January (1950)
Executive branch:
    president, vice president, prime minister, Council of Ministers
Legislative branch:
    bicameral Parliament (Sansad) consists of an upper house or Council of
    States (Rajya Sabha) and a lower house or People's Assembly (Lok Sabha)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Ramaswamy Iyer VENKATARAMAN (since 25 July 1987); Vice President
    Dr. Shankar Dayal SHARMA (since 3 September 1987)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister P. V. Narasimha RAO (since 21 June 1991)
Political parties and leaders:
    Congress (I) Party, P. V. Narasimha RAO, president; Bharatiya Janata Party,
    L. K. ADVANI; Janata Dal Party, V. P. SINGH; Communist Party of
    India/Marxist (CPI/M), Harkishan Singh SURJEET; Communist Party of India
    (CPI), C. Rajeswara RAO; Telugu Desam (a regional party in Andhra Pradesh),
    N. T. Rama RAO; All-India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazagham (AIADMK; a regional
    party in Tamil Nadu), JAYALALITHA; Samajwadi Janata Party, CHANDRA SHEKHAR;
    Shiv Sena, Bal THACKERAY; Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP), Tridip
    CHOWDHURY; Bahujana Samaj Party (BSP), Kanshi RAM; Congress (S) Party,
    leader NA; Communist Party of India/Marxist-Leninist (CPI/ML), Satyanarayan
    SINGH; Dravida Munnetra Kazagham (a regional party in Tamil Nadu), M.
    KARUNANIDHI; Akali Dal factions representing Sikh religious community in the
    Punjab; National Conference (NC; a regional party in Jammu and Kashmir),
    Farooq ABDULLAH; Asom Gana Parishad (a regional party in Assam), Prafulla
    MAHANTA
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18

:India Government

Elections:
  People's Assembly:
    last held 21 May, 12 and 15 June 1991 (next to be held by November 1996);
    results - percent of vote by party NA; seats - (545 total), 520 elected -
    Congress (I) Party 231, Bharatiya Janata Party 119, Janata Dal Party 59,
    CPI/M 35, CPI 14, Telugu Desam 13, AIADMK 11, Samajwadi Janata Party 5, Shiv
    Sena 4, RSP 4, BSP 1, Congress (S) Party 1, other 23; note - second and
    third rounds of voting were delayed because of the assassination of Congress
    President Rajiv GANDHI on 21 May 1991
Communists:
    466,000 members claimed by CPI, 361,000 members claimed by CPI/M; Communist
    extremist groups, about 15,000 members
Other political or pressure groups:
    various separatist groups seeking greater communal and/or regional autonomy;
    numerous religious or militant/chauvinistic organizations, including Adam
    Sena, Ananda Marg, Vishwa Hindu Parishad, and Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh
Member of:
    AfDB, AG (observer), AsDB, C, CCC, CP, ESCAP, FAO, G-6, G-15, G-19, G-24,
    G-77, GATT, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, IDA, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO,
    INMARSAT, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, ISO, ITU, LORCS, NAM, PCA, SAARC, UN,
    UNAVEM, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNIIMOG, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Abid HUSSEIN; Chancery at 2107 Massachusetts Avenue NW,
    Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 939-7000; there are Indian Consulates
    General in Chicago, New York, and San Francisco
  US:
    Ambassador William CLARK, Jr.; Embassy at Shanti Path, Chanakyapuri 110021,
    New Delhi; telephone [91] (11) 600651; FAX [91] (11) 687-2028, 687-2391;
    there are US Consulates General in Bombay, Calcutta, and Madras
Flag:
    three equal horizontal bands of orange (top), white, and green with a blue
    chakra (24-spoked wheel) centered in the white band; similar to the flag of
    Niger, which has a small orange disk centered in the white band

:India Economy

Overview:
    India's economy is a mixture of traditional village farming and handicrafts,
    modern agriculture, old and new branches of industry, and a multitude of
    support services. It presents both the entrepreneurial skills and drives of
    the capitalist system and widespread government intervention of the
    socialist mold. Growth of 4-5% annually in the 1980s has softened the impact
    of population growth on unemployment, social tranquility, and the
    environment. Agricultural output has continued to expand, reflecting the
    greater use of modern farming techniques and improved seed that have helped
    to make India self-sufficient in food grains and a net agricultural
    exporter. However, tens of millions of villagers, particularly in the south,
    have not benefited from the green revolution and live in abject poverty, and
    great numbers of urban residents lack the basic essentials of life. Industry
    has benefited from a partial liberalization of controls. The growth rate of
    the service sector has also been strong. India, however, has been challenged
    more recently by much lower foreign exchange reserves, higher inflation, and
    a large debt service burden.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $328 billion, per capita $380; real growth rate
    2.5% (FY92 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    12.0% (1991)
Unemployment rate:
    20% (1991 est.)
Budget:
    revenues $38.5 billion; expenditures $53.4 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $11.1 billion (FY92)
Exports:
    $20.2 billion (f.o.b., FY91)
  commodities:
    gems and jewelry, engineering goods, clothing, textiles, chemicals, tea,
    coffee, fish products
  partners:
    EC 25%, US 16%, USSR and Eastern Europe 19%, Japan 10% (1989)
Imports:
    $25.2 billion (c.i.f., FY91)
  commodities:
    petroleum products, capital goods, uncut gems, gems, jewelry, chemicals,
    iron and steel, edible oils
  partners:
    EC 33%, Middle East 19%, US 12%, Japan 8%, USSR and Eastern Europe 8% (1989)
External debt:
    $72.0 billion (1991 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 8.4% (1990); accounts for about 25% of GDP
Electricity:
    80,000,000 kW capacity; 290,000 million kWh produced, 330 kWh per capita
    (1991)
Industries:
    textiles, food processing, steel, machinery, transportation equipment,
    cement, jute manufactures, mining, petroleum, power, chemicals,
    pharmaceuticals, electronics
Agriculture:
    accounts for about 30% of GDP and employs 67% of labor force;
    self-sufficient in food grains; principal crops - rice, wheat, oilseeds,
    cotton, jute, tea, sugarcane, potatoes; livestock - cattle, buffaloes,
    sheep, goats and poultry; fish catch of about 3 million metric tons ranks
    India among the world's top 10 fishing nations

:India Economy

Illicit drugs:
    licit producer of opium poppy for the pharmaceutical trade, but some opium
    is diverted to illicit international drug markets; major transit country for
    illicit narcotics produced in neighboring countries; illicit producer of
    hashish
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $4.4 billion; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1980-89), $31.7 billion; OPEC
    bilateral aid (1979-89), $315 million; USSR (1970-89), $11.6 billion;
    Eastern Europe (1970-89), $105 million
Currency:
    Indian rupee (plural - rupees); 1 Indian rupee (Re) = 100 paise
Exchange rates:
    Indian rupees (Rs) per US$1 - 25.917 (January 1992), 22.742 (1991), 17.504
    (1990), 16.226 (1989), 13.917 (1988), 12.962 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    1 April - 31 March

:India Communications

Railroads:
    61,850 km total (1986); 33,553 km 1.676-meter broad gauge, 24,051 km
    1.000-meter gauge, 4,246 km narrow gauge (0.762 meter and 0.610 meter);
    12,617 km is double track; 6,500 km is electrified
Highways:
    1,970,000 km total (1989); 960,000 km surfaced and 1,010,000 km gravel,
    crushed stone, or earth
Inland waterways:
    16,180 km; 3,631 km navigable by large vessels
Pipelines:
    crude oil 3,497 km; petroleum products 1,703 km; natural gas 902 km (1989)
Ports:
    Bombay, Calcutta, Cochin, Kandla, Madras, New Mangalore, Port Blair (Andaman
    Islands)
Merchant marine:
    299 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 5,991,278 GRT/9,935,463 DWT; includes
    1 short-sea passenger, 7 passenger-cargo, 91 cargo, 1 roll-on/roll-off, 8
    container, 54 oil tanker, 10 chemical tanker, 8 combination ore/oil, 111
    bulk, 2 combination bulk, 6 liquefied gas
Civil air:
    93 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    341 total, 288 usable; 203 with permanent-surface runways; 2 with runways
    over 3,659 m; 59 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 87 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    poor domestic telephone service, international radio communications
    adequate; 4,700,000 telephones; broadcast stations - 96 AM, 4 FM, 274 TV
    (government controlled); domestic satellite system for communications and
    TV; 3 Indian Ocean INTELSAT earth stations; submarine cables to Malaysia and
    United Arab Emirates

:India Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Navy, Air Force, Security or Paramilitary Forces, Border Security
    Force, Coast Guard, Assam Rifles
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 237,803,153; 140,140,736 fit for military service; about
    9,474,290 reach military age (17) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $NA, NA% of GNP (FY91)

:Indian Ocean Geography

Total area:
    73,600,000 km2
Land area:
    73,600,000 km2; Arabian Sea, Bass Strait, Bay of Bengal, Java Sea, Persian
    Gulf, Red Sea, Strait of Malacca, Timor Sea, and other tributary water
    bodies
Comparative area:
    slightly less than eight times the size of the US; third-largest ocean
    (after the Pacific Ocean and Atlantic Ocean, but larger than the Arctic
    Ocean)
Coastline:
    66,526 km
Disputes:
    some maritime disputes (see littoral states)
Climate:
    northeast monsoon (December to April), southwest monsoon (June to October);
    tropical cyclones occur during May/June and October/November in the north
    Indian Ocean and January/February in the south Indian Ocean
Terrain:
    surface dominated by counterclockwise gyre (broad, circular system of
    currents) in the south Indian Ocean; unique reversal of surface currents in
    the north Indian Ocean - low pressure over southwest Asia from hot, rising,
    summer air results in the southwest monsoon and southwest-to-northeast winds
    and currents, while high pressure over northern Asia from cold, falling,
    winter air results in the northeast monsoon and northeast-to-southwest winds
    and currents; ocean floor is dominated by the Mid-Indian Ocean Ridge and
    subdivided by the Southeast Indian Ocean Ridge, Southwest Indian Ocean
    Ridge, and Ninety East Ridge; maximum depth is 7,258 meters in the Java
    Trench
Natural resources:
    oil and gas fields, fish, shrimp, sand and gravel aggregates, placer
    deposits, polymetallic nodules
Environment:
    endangered marine species include the dugong, seals, turtles, and whales;
    oil pollution in the Arabian Sea, Persian Gulf, and Red Sea
Note:
    major chokepoints include Bab el Mandeb, Strait of Hormuz, Strait of
    Malacca, southern access to the Suez Canal, and the Lombok Strait; ships
    subject to superstructure icing in extreme south near Antarctica from May to
    October

:Indian Ocean Economy

Overview:
    The Indian Ocean provides a major highway for the movement of petroleum
    products from the Middle East to Europe and North and South American
    countries. Fish from the ocean are of growing economic importance to many of
    the bordering countries as a source of both food and exports. Fishing fleets
    from Russia, Japan, Korea, and Taiwan also exploit the Indian Ocean, mainly
    for shrimp and tuna. Large reserves of hydrocarbons are being tapped in the
    offshore areas of Saudi Arabia, Iran, India, and Western Australia. An
    estimated 40% of the world's offshore oil production comes from the Indian
    Ocean. Beach sands rich in heavy minerals and offshore placer deposits are
    actively exploited by bordering countries, particularly India, South Africa,
    Indonesia, Sri Lanka, and Thailand.
Industries:
    based on exploitation of natural resources, particularly marine life,
    minerals, oil and gas production, fishing, sand and gravel aggregates,
    placer deposits

:Indian Ocean Communications

Ports:
    Bombay (India), Calcutta (India), Madras (India), Colombo (Sri Lanka),
    Durban (South Africa), Fremantle (Australia), Jakarta (Indonesia), Melbourne
    (Australia), Richard's Bay (South Africa)
Telecommunications:
    submarine cables from India to United Arab Emirates and Malaysia

:Indonesia Geography

Total area:
    1,919,440 km2
Land area:
    1,826,440 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly less than three times the size of Texas
Land boundaries:
    2,602 km; Malaysia 1,782 km, Papua New Guinea 820 km
Coastline:
    54,716 km
Maritime claims:
    (measured from claimed archipelagic baselines)
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    sovereignty over Timor Timur (East Timor Province) disputed with Portugal
Climate:
    tropical; hot, humid; more moderate in highlands
Terrain:
    mostly coastal lowlands; larger islands have interior mountains
Natural resources:
    crude oil, tin, natural gas liquids, nickel, timber, bauxite, copper,
    fertile soils, coal, gold, silver
Land use:
    arable land 8%; permanent crops 3%; meadows and pastures 7%; forest and
    woodland 67%; other 15%; includes irrigated 3%
Environment:
    archipelago of 13,500 islands (6,000 inhabited); occasional floods, severe
    droughts, and tsunamis; deforestation
Note:
    straddles Equator; strategic location astride or along major sea lanes from
    Indian Ocean to Pacific Ocean

:Indonesia People

Population:
    195,683,531 (July 1992), growth rate 1.7% (1992)
Birth rate:
    25 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    8 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    70 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    59 years male, 64 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    2.8 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Indonesian(s); adjective - Indonesian
Ethnic divisions:
    majority of Malay stock comprising Javanese 45.0%, Sundanese 14.0%, Madurese
    7.5%, coastal Malays 7.5%, other 26.0%
Religions:
    Muslim 87%, Protestant 6%, Roman Catholic 3%, Hindu 2%, Buddhist 1%, other
    1% (1985)
Languages:
    Bahasa Indonesia (modified form of Malay; official); English and Dutch
    leading foreign languages; local dialects, the most widely spoken of which
    is Javanese
Literacy:
    77% (male 84%, female 68%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    67,000,000; agriculture 55%, manufacturing 10%, construction 4%, transport
    and communications 3% (1985 est.)
Organized labor:
    3,000,000 members (claimed); about 5% of labor force

:Indonesia Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Indonesia
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Jakarta
Administrative divisions:
    24 provinces (propinsi-propinsi, singular - propinsi), 2 special regions*
    (daerah-daerah istimewa, singular - daerah istimewa), and 1 special capital
    city district** (daerah khusus ibukota); Aceh*, Bali, Bengkulu, Irian Jaya,
    Jakarta Raya**, Jambi, Jawa Barat, Jawa Tengah, Jawa Timur, Kalimantan
    Barat, Kalimantan Selatan, Kalimantan Tengah, Kalimantan Timur, Lampung,
    Maluku, Nusa Tenggara Barat, Nusa Tenggara Timur, Riau, Sulawesi Selatan,
    Sulawesi Tengah, Sulawesi Tenggara, Sulawesi Utara, Sumatera Barat, Sumatera
    Selatan, Sumatera Utara, Timor Timur, Yogyakarta*
Independence:
    17 August 1945 (proclaimed independence; on 27 December 1949, Indonesia
    became legally independent from the Netherlands)
Constitution:
    August 1945, abrogated by Federal Constitution of 1949 and Provisional
    Constitution of 1950, restored 5 July 1959
Legal system:
    based on Roman-Dutch law, substantially modified by indigenous concepts and
    by new criminal procedures code; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
    jurisdiction
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 17 August (1945)
Executive branch:
    president, vice president, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    unicameral House of Representatives (Dewan Perwakilan Rakyat or DPR); note -
    the People's Consultative Assembly (Majelis Permusyawaratan Rakyat or MPR)
    includes the DPR plus 500 indirectly elected members who meet every five
    years to elect the president and vice president and, theoretically, to
    determine national policy
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court (Mahkamah Agung)
Leaders:
  Chief of State and Head of Government:
    President Gen. (Ret.) SOEHARTO (since 27 March 1968); Vice President Lt.
    Gen. (Ret.) SUDHARMONO (since 11 March 1988)
Political parties and leaders:
    GOLKAR (quasi-official party based on functional groups), Lt. Gen. (Ret.)
    WAHONO, general chairman; Indonesia Democracy Party (PDI - federation of
    former Nationalist and Christian Parties), SOERYADI, chairman; Development
    Unity Party (PPP, federation of former Islamic parties), Ismail Hasan
    METAREUM, chairman
Suffrage:
    universal at age 17 and married persons regardless of age
Elections:
  House of Representatives:
    last held on 23 April 1987 (next to be held 8 June 1992); results - Golkar
    73%, UDP 16%, PDI 11%; seats - (500 total - 400 elected, 100 appointed)
    Golkar 299, UDP 61, PDI 40
Communists:
    Communist Party (PKI) was officially banned in March 1966; current strength
    about 1,000-3,000, with less than 10% engaged in organized activity;
    pre-October 1965 hardcore membership about 1.5 million

:Indonesia Government

Member of:
    APEC, AsDB, ASEAN, CCC, CP, ESCAP, FAO, G-15, G-19, G-77, GATT, IAEA, IBRD,
    ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INMARSAT, INTELSAT,
    INTERPOL, IOC, ISO, ITU, LORCS, NAM, OIC, OPEC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO,
    UNIIMOG, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Abdul Rachman RAMLY; Chancery at 2020 Massachusetts Avenue NW,
    Washington, DC 20036; telephone (202) 775-5200; there are Indonesian
    Consulates General in Houston, New York, and Los Angeles, and Consulates in
    Chicago and San Francisco
  US:
    Ambassador John C. MONJO; Embassy at Medan Merdeka Selatan 5, Jakarta
    (mailing address is APO AP 96520); telephone [62] (21) 360-360; FAX [62]
    (21) 360-644; there are US Consulates in Medan and Surabaya
Flag:
    two equal horizontal bands of red (top) and white; similar to the flag of
    Monaco, which is shorter; also similar to the flag of Poland, which is white
    (top) and red

:Indonesia Economy

Overview:
    Indonesia is a mixed economy with many socialist institutions and central
    planning but with a recent emphasis on deregulation and private enterprise.
    Indonesia has extensive natural wealth, yet, with a large and rapidly
    increasing population, it remains a poor country. GDP growth in 1985-91
    averaged about 6%, quite impressive, but not sufficient to both slash
    underemployment and absorb the 2.3 million workers annually entering the
    labor force. Agriculture, including forestry and fishing, is an important
    sector, accounting for 23% of GDP and over 50% of the labor force. The
    staple crop is rice. Once the world's largest rice importer, Indonesia is
    now nearly self-sufficient. Plantation crops - rubber and palm oil - and
    textiles and plywood are being encouraged for both export and job
    generation. Industrial output now accounts for 30% of GDP and is based on a
    supply of diverse natural resources, including crude oil, natural gas,
    timber, metals, and coal. Of these, the oil sector dominates the external
    economy, generating more than 20% of the government's revenues and 40% of
    export earnings in 1989. However, the economy's growth is highly dependent
    on the continuing expansion of nonoil exports. Japan is Indonesia's most
    important customer and supplier of aid. In 1991, rapid growth in the money
    supply prompted Jakarta to implement a tight monetary policy, forcing the
    private sector to go to foreign banks for investment financing. Real
    interest rates remained above 10%, off-shore commercial debt grew, and real
    GDP growth dropped slightly from the 7% of 1990.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $122 billion, per capita $630; real growth rate
    6.0% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    10% (1991 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    3%; underemployment 45% (1991 est.)
Budget:
    revenues $17.2 billion; expenditures $23.4 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $8.9 billion (FY91)
Exports:
    $25.7 billion (f.o.b., 1990)
  commodities:
    petroleum and liquefied natural gas 40%, timber 15%, textiles 7%, rubber 5%,
    coffee 3%
  partners:
    Japan 40%, US 14%, Singapore 7%, Europe 16% (1990)
Imports:
    $21.8 billion (f.o.b., 1990)
  commodities:
    machinery 39%, chemical products 19%, manufactured goods 16%
  partners:
    Japan 23%, US 13%, EC, Singapore
External debt:
    $58.5 billion (1990 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 11.6% (1989 est.); accounts for 30% of GDP
Electricity:
    11,600,000 kW capacity; 38,000 million kWh produced, 200 kWh per capita
    (1990)
Industries:
    petroleum, textiles, mining, cement, chemical fertilizers, plywood, food,
    rubber

:Indonesia Economy

Agriculture:
    accounts for 23% of GDP; subsistence food production; small-holder and
    plantation production for export; main products are rice, cassava, peanuts,
    rubber, cocoa, coffee, palm oil, copra, other tropical products, poultry,
    beef, pork, eggs
Illicit drugs:
    illicit producer of cannabis for the international drug trade, but not a
    major player; government actively eradicating plantings and prosecuting
    traffickers
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $4.4 billion; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $25.9 billion; OPEC
    bilateral aid (1979-89), $213 million; Communist countries (1970-89), $175
    million
Currency:
    Indonesian rupiah (plural - rupiahs); 1 Indonesian rupiah (Rp) = 100 sen
    (sen no longer used)
Exchange rates:
    Indonesian rupiahs (Rp) per US$1 - 1,998.2 (January 1992), 1,950.3 (1991),
    1,842.8 (1990), 1,770.1 (1989), 1,685.7 (1988), 1,643.8 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    1 April - 31 March

:Indonesia Communications

Railroads:
    6,964 km total; 6,389 km 1.067-meter gauge, 497 km 0.750-meter gauge, 78 km
    0.600-meter gauge; 211 km double track; 101 km electrified; all government
    owned
Highways:
    119,500 km total; 11,812 km state, 34,180 km provincial, and 73,508 km
    district roads
Inland waterways:
    21,579 km total; Sumatra 5,471 km, Java and Madura 820 km, Kalimantan 10,460
    km, Celebes 241 km, Irian Jaya 4,587 km
Pipelines:
    crude oil 2,505 km; petroleum products 456 km; natural gas 1,703 km (1989)
Ports:
    Cilacap, Cirebon, Jakarta, Kupang, Palembang, Ujungpandang, Semarang,
    Surabaya
Merchant marine:
    387 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 1,698,946 GRT/2,560,414 DWT; includes
    5 short-sea passenger, 13 passenger-cargo, 231 cargo, 8 container, 3
    roll-on/roll-off cargo, 3 vehicle carrier, 79 petroleum tanker, 5 chemical
    tanker, 6 liquefied gas, 7 specialized tanker, 1 livestock carrier, 25 bulk,
    1 passenger
Civil air:
    about 216 commercial transport aircraft
Airports:
    437 total, 410 usable; 114 with permanent-surface runways; 1 with runways
    over 3,659 m; 12 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 64 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    interisland microwave system and HF police net; domestic service fair,
    international service good; radiobroadcast coverage good; 763,000 telephones
    (1986); broadcast stations - 618 AM, 38 FM, 9 TV; satellite earth stations -
    1 Indian Ocean INTELSAT earth station and 1 Pacific Ocean INTELSAT earth
    station; and 1 domestic satellite communications system

:Indonesia Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Navy, Air Force, National Police
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 51,906,415; 30,668,815 fit for military service; 2,095,698
    reach military age (18) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $1.7 billion, 2% of GNP (FY91)

:Iran Geography

Total area:
    1,648,000 km2
Land area:
    1,636,000 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than Alaska
Land boundaries:
    5,440 km; Afghanistan 936 km, Armenia 35 km, Azerbaijan (north) 432 km,
    Azerbaijan (northwest) 179 km, Iraq 1,458 km, Pakistan 909 km, Turkey 499
    km, Turkmenistan 992 km
Coastline:
    2,440 km
  note:
    Iran also borders the Caspian Sea (740 km)
Maritime claims:
  Continental shelf:
    not specific
  Exclusive fishing zone:
    50 nm in the Sea of Oman; continental shelf limit, continental shelf
    boundaries, or median lines in the Persian Gulf
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    Iran and Iraq restored diplomatic relations in 1990 but are still trying to
    work out written agreements settling outstanding disputes from their
    eight-year war concerning border demarcation, prisoners-of-war, and freedom
    of navigation and sovereignty over the Shatt-al-Arab waterway; Iran occupies
    two islands in the Persian Gulf claimed by the UAE: Tunb as Sughra (Arabic),
    Jazireh-ye Tonb-e Kuchek (Persian) or Lesser Tunb, and Tunb al Kubra
    (Arabic), Jazireh-ye Tonb-e Bozorg (Persian) or Greater Tunb; it jointly
    administers with the UAE an island in the Persian Gulf claimed by the UAE,
    Abu Musa (Arabic) or Jazireh-ye Abu Musa (Persian)
Climate:
    mostly arid or semiarid, subtropical along Caspian coast
Terrain:
    rugged, mountainous rim; high, central basin with deserts, mountains; small,
    discontinuous plains along both coasts
Natural resources:
    petroleum, natural gas, coal, chromium, copper, iron ore, lead, manganese,
    zinc, sulfur
Land use:
    arable land 8%; permanent crops NEGL%; meadows and pastures 27%; forest and
    woodland 11%; other 54%; includes irrigated 2%
Environment:
    deforestation; overgrazing; desertification

:Iran People

Population:
    61,183,138 (July 1992), growth rate 3.5% (1992)
Birth rate:
    44 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    8 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    64 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    64 years male, 66 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    6.5 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Iranian(s); adjective - Iranian
Ethnic divisions:
    Persian 51%, Azerbaijani 25%, Kurd 9%, Gilaki and Mazandarani 8%, Lur 2%,
    Baloch 1%, Arab 1%, other 3%
Religions:
    Shi`a Muslim 95%, Sunni Muslim 4%, Zoroastrian, Jewish, Christian, and
    Baha'i 1%
Languages:
    58% Persian and Persian dialects, 26% Turkic and Turkic dialects, 9%
    Kurdish, 2% Luri, 1% Baloch, 1% Arabic, 1% Turkish, 2% other
Literacy:
    54% (male 64%, female 43%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    15,400,000; agriculture 33%, manufacturing 21%; shortage of skilled labor
    (1988 est.)
Organized labor:
    none

:Iran Government

Long-form name:
    Islamic Republic of Iran
Type:
    theocratic republic
Capital:
    Tehran
Administrative divisions:
    24 provinces (ostanha, singular - ostan); Azarbayjan-e Bakhtari,
    Azarbayjan-e Khavari, Bakhtaran, Bushehr, Chahar Machall va Bakhtiari,
    Ecsfahan, Fars, Gilan, Hamadan, Hormozgan, Ilam, Kerman, Khorasan,
    Khuzestan, Kohkiluyeh va Buyer Achmadi, Kordestan, Lorestan, Markazi,
    Mazandaran, Semnan, Sistan va Baluchestan, Tehran, Yazd, Zanjan
Independence:
    1 April 1979, Islamic Republic of Iran proclaimed
Constitution:
    2-3 December 1979; revised 1989 to expand powers of the presidency and
    eliminate the prime ministership
Legal system:
    the Constitution codifies Islamic principles of government
National holiday:
    Islamic Republic Day, 1 April (1979)
Executive branch:
    cleric (faqih), president, Council of Ministers
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Islamic Consultative Assembly (Majles-e-Shura-ye-Eslami)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Cleric and functional Chief of State:
    Leader of the Islamic Revolution Ayatollah Ali HOSEINI-KHAMENEI (since 4
    June 1989)
  Head of Government:
    President Ali Akbar HASHEMI-RAFSANJANI (since 3 August 1989)
Political parties and leaders:
    there are at least 18 licensed parties; the three most important are -
    Tehran Militant Clergy Association, Mohammad Reza MAHDAVI-KANI; Militant
    Clerics Association, Mehdi MAHDAVI-KARUBI and Mohammad Asqar
    MUSAVI-KHOINIHA; Fedaiyin Islam Organization, Sadeq KHALKHALI
Suffrage:
    universal at age 15
Elections:
  President:
    last held July 1989 (next to be held April 1993); results - Ali Akbar
    HASHEMI-RAFSANJANI was elected with only token opposition
  Islamic Consultative Assembly:
    last held 8 April 1992 (next to be held April 1996); results - percent of
    vote by party NA; seats - (270 seats total) number of seats by party NA
Communists:
    1,000 to 2,000 est. hardcore; 15,000 to 20,000 est. sympathizers; crackdown
    in 1983 crippled the party; trials of captured leaders began in late 1983
Other political or pressure groups:
    groups that generally support the Islamic Republic include Hizballah,
    Hojjatiyeh Society, Mojahedin of the Islamic Revolution, Muslim Students
    Following the Line of the Imam; armed political groups that have been almost
    completely repressed by the government include Mojahedin-e Khalq
    Organization (MEK), People's Fedayeen, Kurdish Democratic Party; the Society
    for the Defense of Freedom

:Iran Government

Member of:
    CCC, CP, ESCAP, FAO, G-19, G-24, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, IDA, IDB,
    IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INMARSAT, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, ISO, ITU,
    LORCS, NAM, OIC, OPEC, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UPU, WFTU,
    WHO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    none; protecting power in the US is Pakistan - Iranian Interests Section,
    2315 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 939-6200
  US:
    protecting power in Iran is Switzerland
Flag:
    three equal horizontal bands of green (top), white, and red; the national
    emblem (a stylized representation of the word Allah) in red is centered in
    the white band; Allah Alkbar (God is Great) in white Arabic script is
    repeated 11 times along the bottom edge of the green band and 11 times along
    the top edge of the red band

:Iran Economy

Overview:
    Iran's economy is a mixture of central planning, state ownership of oil and
    other large enterprises, village agriculture, and small-scale private
    trading and service ventures. After a decade of economic decline, Iran's GNP
    grew roughly 4% in FY90 and 10% in FY91. An oil windfall in 1990 combined
    with a substantial increase in imports contributed to Iran's recent economic
    growth. Iran has also begun implementing a number of economic reforms to
    reduce government intervention (including subsidies) and has allocated
    substantial resources to development projects in the hope of stimulating the
    economy. Nevertheless, lower oil revenues in 1991 - oil accounts for more
    than 90% of export revenues and provides roughly 65% of the financing for
    the five-year economic development plan - and dramatic increases in external
    debt are threatening development plans and could prompt Iran to cut imports,
    thus limiting economic growth in the medium term.
GNP:
    exchange rate conversion - $90 billion, per capita $1,500; real growth rate
    10% (FY91 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    18% (FY91 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    30% (1989)
Budget:
    revenues $63 billion; expenditures $80 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $23 billion (FY90 est.)
Exports:
    $17.8 billion (f.o.b., 1990)
  commodities:
    petroleum 90%, carpets, fruits, nuts, hides
  partners:
    Japan, Italy, France, Netherlands, Belgium/Luxembourg, Spain, and Germany
Imports:
    $15.9 billion (c.i.f., 1990)
  commodities:
    machinery, military supplies, metal works, foodstuffs, pharmaceuticals,
    technical services, refined oil products
  partners:
    Germany, Japan, Italy, UK, France
External debt:
    $10 billion (1990 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate NA%
Electricity:
    14,579,000 kW capacity; 40,000 million kWh produced, 740 kWh per capita
    (1989)
Industries:
    petroleum, petrochemicals, textiles, cement and other building materials,
    food processing (particularly sugar refining and vegetable oil production),
    metal fabricating (steel and copper)
Agriculture:
    principal products - wheat, rice, other grains, sugar beets, fruits, nuts,
    cotton, dairy products, wool, caviar; not self-sufficient in food
Illicit drugs:
    illicit producer of opium poppy for the domestic and international drug
    trade
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-80), $1.0 billion; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $1.675 billion;
    Communist countries (1970-89), $976 million; note - aid fell sharply
    following the 1979 revolution

:Iran Economy

Currency:
    Iranian rial (plural - rials); 1 Iranian rial (IR) = 100 dinars; note -
    domestic figures are generally referred to in terms of the toman (plural -
    tomans), which equals 10 rials
Exchange rates:
    Iranian rials (IR) per US$1 - 65.515 (January 1992), 67.505 (1991), 68.096
    (1990), 72.015 (1989), 68.683 (1988), 71.460 (1987); note - black-market
    rate 1,400 (January 1991)
Fiscal year:
    21 March - 20 March

:Iran Communications

Railroads:
    4,850 km total; 4,760 km 1.432-meter gauge, 92 km 1.676-meter gauge; 480 km
    under construction from Bafq to Bandar Abbas, rail construction from Bafq to
    Sirjan has been completed and is operational
Highways:
    140,072 km total; 42,694 km paved surfaces; 46,866 km gravel and crushed
    stone; 49,440 km improved earth; 1,200 km (est.) rural road network
Inland waterways:
    904 km; the Shatt-al-Arab is usually navigable by maritime traffic for about
    130 km, but closed since September 1980 because of Iran-Iraq war
Pipelines:
    crude oil 5,900 km; petroleum products 3,900 km; natural gas 4,550 km
Ports:
    Abadan (largely destroyed in fighting during 1980-88 war), Bandar Beheshti,
    Bandar-e Abbas, Bandar-e Bushehr, Bandar-e Khomeyni, Bandar-e Shahid Raja,
    Khorramshahr (largely destroyed in fighting during 1980-88 war)
Merchant marine:
    134 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 4,466,395 GRT/8,329,760 DWT; includes
    38 cargo, 6 roll-on/roll-off cargo, 32 oil tanker, 4 chemical tanker, 3
    refrigerated cargo, 47 bulk, 2 combination bulk, 1 liquefied gas
Civil air:
    48 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    214 total, 188 usable; 81 with permanent-surface runways; 16 with runways
    over 3,659 m; 16 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 71 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    radio relay extends throughout country; system centered in Tehran; 2,143,000
    telephones; broadcast stations - 77 AM, 3 FM, 28 TV; satellite earth
    stations - 2 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT and 1 Indian Ocean INTELSAT; HF radio
    and radio relay to Turkey, Pakistan, Syria, Kuwait, Tajikistan, and
    Uzbekistan

:Iran Defense Forces

Branches:
    Islamic Republic of Iran Ground Forces, Navy, Air Force, and Revolutionary
    Guard Corps (includes Basij militia and own ground, air, and naval forces);
    Law Enforcement Forces
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 13,267,810; 7,895,591 fit for military service; 552,408 reach
    military age (21) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $13 billion, 14-15% of GNP (1991 est.)

:Iraq Geography

Total area:
    436,245 km2
Land area:
    435,292 km2 (est.)
Comparative area:
    slightly more than twice the size of Idaho
Land boundaries:
    3,576 km; Iran 1,458 km, Jordan 134 km, Kuwait 240 km, Saudi Arabia 808 km,
    Syria 605 km, Turkey 331 km
Coastline:
    58 km
Maritime claims:
  Continental shelf:
    not specific
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    Iran and Iraq restored diplomatic relations in 1990 but are still trying to
    work out written agreements settling outstanding disputes from their
    eight-year war concerning border demarcation, prisoners-of-war, and freedom
    of navigation and sovereignty over the Shatt-al-Arab waterway; in April 1991
    official Iraqi acceptance of UN Security Council Resolution 687, which
    demands that Iraq accept the inviolability of the boundary set forth in its
    1963 agreement with Kuwait, ending earlier claims to Bubiyan and Warbah
    Islands or to all of Kuwait; a United Nations Boundary Demarcation
    Commission is demarcating the Iraq-Kuwait boundary persuant to Resolution
    687, and, on 17 June 1992, the UN Security Council reaffirmed the finality
    of the Boundary Demarcation Commission's decisions; periodic disputes with
    upstream riparian Syria over Euphrates water rights; potential dispute over
    water development plans by Turkey for the Tigris and Euphrates Rivers
Climate:
    mostly desert; mild to cool winters with dry, hot, cloudless summers;
    northernmost regions along Iranian and Turkish borders experience cold
    winters with occasionally heavy snows
Terrain:
    mostly broad plains; reedy marshes in southeast; mountains along borders
    with Iran and Turkey
Natural resources:
    crude oil, natural gas, phosphates, sulfur
Land use:
    arable land 12%; permanent crops 1%; meadows and pastures 9%; forest and
    woodland 3%; other 75%; includes irrigated 4%
Environment:
    development of Tigris-Euphrates Rivers system contingent upon agreements
    with upstream riparians (Syria, Turkey); air and water pollution; soil
    degradation (salinization) and erosion; desertification

:Iraq People

Population:
    18,445,847 (July 1992), growth rate 3.7% (1992)
Birth rate:
    45 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    9 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    NEGL migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    84 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    62 years male, 64 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    7.0 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Iraqi(s); adjective - Iraqi
Ethnic divisions:
    Arab 75-80%, Kurdish 15-20%, Turkoman, Assyrian or other 5%
Religions:
    Muslim 97%, (Shi`a 60-65%, Sunni 32-37%), Christian or other 3%
Languages:
    Arabic (official), Kurdish (official in Kurdish regions), Assyrian, Armenian
Literacy:
    60% (male 70%, female 49%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    4,400,000 (1989); services 48%, agriculture 30%, industry 22%, severe labor
    shortage; expatriate labor force about 1,600,000 (July 1990)
Organized labor:
    less than 10% of the labor force

:Iraq Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Iraq
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Baghdad
Administrative divisions:
    18 provinces (muhafazat, singular - muhafazah); Al Anbar, Al Basrah, Al
    Muthanna, Al Qadisiyah, An Najaf, Arbil, As Sulaymaniyah, At Ta'im, Babil,
    Baghdad, Dahuk, Dhi Qar, Diyala, Karbala, Maysan, Ninawa, Salah ad Din,
    Wasit
Independence:
    3 October 1932 (from League of Nations mandate under British administration)
Constitution:
    22 September 1968, effective 16 July 1970 (interim Constitution); new
    constitution drafted in 1990 but not adopted
Legal system:
    based on Islamic law in special religious courts, civil law system
    elsewhere; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
National holiday:
    Anniversary of the Revolution, 17 July (1968)
Executive branch:
    president, vice president, chairman of the Revolutionary Command Council,
    vice chairman of the Revolutionary Command Council, prime minister, first
    deputy prime minister, Council of Ministers
Legislative branch:
    unicameral National Assembly (Majlis al-Watani)
Judicial branch:
    Court of Cassation
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President SADDAM Husayn (since 16 July 1979); Vice President Taha Muhyi
    al-Din MA'RUF (since 21 April 1974); Vice President Taha Yasin RAMADAN
    (since 23 March 1991)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Muhammad Hamza al-ZUBAYDI (since 13 September 1991); Deputy
    Prime Minister Tariq `AZIZ (since NA 1979)
Suffrage:
    universal adult at age 18
Elections:
  National Assembly:
    last held on 1 April 1989 (next to be held NA); results - Sunni Arabs 53%,
    Shi`a Arabs 30%, Kurds 15%, Christians 2% est.; seats - (250 total) number
    of seats by party NA
Other political or pressure groups:
    political parties and activity severely restricted; possibly some opposition
    to regime from disaffected members of the regime, Army officers, and Shi`a
    religious and Kurdish ethnic dissidents
Member of:
    ABEDA, ACC, AFESD, AL, AMF, CAEU, CCC, ESCWA, FAO, G-19, G-77, IAEA, IBRD,
    ICAO, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INMARSAT, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC,
    ISO, ITU, LORCS, NAM, OAPEC, OIC, OPEC, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU,
    WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Iraq has an Interest Section in the Algerian Embassy in Washington, DC;
    Chancery at 1801 P Street NW, Washington, DC 20036; telephone (202) 483-7500

:Iraq Government

  US:
    no US representative in Baghdad since mid-January 1991; Embassy in Masbah
    Quarter (opposite the Foreign Ministry Club), Baghdad (mailing address is P.
    O. Box 2447 Alwiyah, Baghdad); telephone [964] (1) 719-6138 or 719-6139,
    718-1840, 719-3791
Flag:
    three equal horizontal bands of red (top), white, and black with three green
    five-pointed stars in a horizontal line centered in the white band; the
    phrase Allahu Akbar (God is Great) in green Arabic script - Allahu to the
    right of the middle star and Akbar to the left of the middle star - was
    added in January 1991 during the Persian Gulf crisis; similar to the flag of
    Syria that has two stars but no script and the flag of Yemen that has a
    plain white band; also similar to the flag of Egypt that has a symbolic
    eagle centered in the white band

:Iraq Economy

Overview:
    The Ba`thist regime engages in extensive central planning and management of
    industrial production and foreign trade while leaving some small-scale
    industry and services and most agriculture to private enterprise. The
    economy has been dominated by the oil sector, which has provided about 95%
    of foreign exchange earnings. In the 1980s financial problems, caused by
    massive expenditures in the eight-year war with Iran and damage to oil
    export facilities by Iran, led the government to implement austerity
    measures and to borrow heavily and later reschedule foreign debt payments.
    After the end of hostilities in 1988, oil exports gradually increased with
    the construction of new pipelines and restoration of damaged facilities.
    Agricultural development remained hampered by labor shortages, salinization,
    and dislocations caused by previous land reform and collectivization
    programs. The industrial sector, although accorded high priority by the
    government, also was under financial constraints. Iraq's seizure of Kuwait
    in August 1990, subsequent international economic embargoes, and military
    actions by an international coalition beginning in January 1991 drastically
    changed the economic picture. Oil exports were cut to near zero, and
    industrial and transportation facilities were severely damaged. Throughout
    1991, the UN's economic embargo worked to reduce exports and imports and to
    increase prices for most goods. The government's policy to allocate goods to
    key supporters of the regime exacerbated shortages.
GNP:
    $35 billion, per capita $1,940; real growth rate 10% (1989 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    45% (1989)
Unemployment rate:
    less than 5% (1989 est.)
Budget:
    revenues $NA billion; expenditures $NA billion, including capital
    expenditures of NA (1989)
Exports:
    $10.4 billion (f.o.b., 1990)
  commodities:
    crude oil and refined products, fertilizer, sulfur
  partners:
    US, Brazil, Turkey, Japan, Netherlands, Spain (1990)
Imports:
    $6.6 billion (c.i.f., 1990)
  commodities:
    manufactures, food
  partners:
    FRG, US, Turkey, France, UK (1990)
External debt:
    $45 billion (1989 est.), excluding debt of about $35 billion owed to Arab
    Gulf states
Industrial production:
    NA%; manufacturing accounts for 10% of GNP (1989)
Electricity:
    3,800,000 kW available out of 9,902,000 kw capacity due to Gulf war; 7,700
    million kWh produced, 430 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    petroleum production and refining, chemicals, textiles, construction
    materials, food processing
Agriculture:
    accounts for 11% of GNP but 30% of labor force; principal products - wheat,
    barley, rice, vegetables, dates, other fruit, cotton, wool; livestock -
    cattle, sheep; not self-sufficient in food output

:Iraq Economy

Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-80), $3 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $647 million;
    Communist countries (1970-89), $3.9 billion
Currency:
    Iraqi dinar (plural - dinars); 1 Iraqi dinar (ID) = 1,000 fils
Exchange rates:
    Iraqi dinars (ID) per US$1 - 3.1 (fixed official rate since 1982);
    black-market rate (December 1991) US$1 = 12 Iraqi dinars
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Iraq Communications

Railroads:
    2,457 km 1.435-meter standard gauge
Highways:
    34,700 km total; 17,500 km paved, 5,500 km improved earth, 11,700 km
    unimproved earth
Inland waterways:
    1,015 km; Shatt-al-Arab usually navigable by maritime traffic for about 130
    km, but closed since September 1980 because of Iran-Iraq war; Tigris and
    Euphrates Rivers have navigable sections for shallow-draft watercraft;
    Shatt-al-Basrah canal was navigable by shallow-draft craft before closing in
    1991 because of the Persian Gulf war
Pipelines:
    crude oil 4,350 km; petroleum products 725 km; natural gas 1,360 km
Ports:
    Umm Qasr, Khawr az Zubayr, Al Basrah (closed since 1980)
Merchant marine:
    42 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 936,665 GRT/1,683,212 DWT; includes 1
    passenger, 1 passenger-cargo, 16 cargo, 1 refrigerated cargo, 3
    roll-on/roll-off cargo, 19 petroleum tanker, 1 chemical tanker; note - since
    the 2 August 1990 invasion of Kuwait by Iraqi forces, Iraq has sought to
    register at least part of its merchant fleet under convenience flags; none
    of the Iraqi flag merchant fleet was trading internationally as of 1 January
    1992
Civil air:
    34 major transport aircraft (including 7 grounded in Iran; excluding 12
    IL-76s and 7 Kuwait Airlines)
Airports:
    113 total, 98 usable; 73 with permanent-surface runways; 8 with runways over
    3,659 m; 52 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 12 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    reconstitution of damaged telecommunication infrastructure began after
    Desert Storm; the network consists of coaxial cables and microwave links;
    632,000 telephones; the network is operational; broadcast stations - 16 AM,
    1 FM, 13 TV; satellite earth stations - 1 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT, 1 Indian
    Ocean INTELSAT, 1 GORIZONT Atlantic Ocean in the Intersputnik system and 1
    ARABSAT; coaxial cable and microwave to Jordan, Kuwait, Syria, and Turkey

:Iraq Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army and Republican Guard, Navy, Air Force, Border Guard Force, Internal
    Security Forces
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 4,042,374; 2,272,578 fit for military service; 213,788 reach
    military age (18) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $NA, NA% of GNP

:Ireland Geography

Total area:
    70,280 km2
Land area:
    68,890 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than West Virginia
Land boundaries:
    360 km; UK 360 km
Coastline:
    1,448 km
Maritime claims:
  Continental shelf:
    no precise definition
  Exclusive fishing zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    Northern Ireland question with the UK; Rockall continental shelf dispute
    involving Denmark, Iceland, and the UK (Ireland and the UK have signed a
    boundary agreement in the Rockall area)
Climate:
    temperate maritime; modified by North Atlantic Current; mild winters, cool
    summers; consistently humid; overcast about half the time
Terrain:
    mostly level to rolling interior plain surrounded by rugged hills and low
    mountains; sea cliffs on west coast
Natural resources:
    zinc, lead, natural gas, crude oil, barite, copper, gypsum, limestone,
    dolomite, peat, silver
Land use:
    arable land 14%; permanent crops NEGL%; meadows and pastures 71%; forest and
    woodland 5%; other 10%
Environment:
    deforestation

:Ireland People

Population:
    3,521,207 (July 1992), growth rate 0.2% (1992)
Birth rate:
    15 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    9 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    -4 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    8 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    72 years male, 78 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    2.0 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Irishman(men), Irish (collective pl.); adjective - Irish
Ethnic divisions:
    Celtic, with English minority
Religions:
    Roman Catholic 93%, Anglican 3%, none 1%, unknown 2%, other 1% (1981)
Languages:
    Irish (Gaelic) and English; English is the language generally used, with
    Gaelic spoken in a few areas, mostly along the western seaboard
Literacy:
    98% (male NA%, female NA%) age 15 and over can read and write (1981)
Labor force:
    1,333,000; services 57.0%, manufacturing and construction 26.1%,
    agriculture, forestry, and fishing 15.0%, energy and mining 1.9% (1991)
Organized labor:
    58% of labor force (1991)

:Ireland Government

Long-form name:
    none
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Dublin
Administrative divisions:
    26 counties; Carlow, Cavan, Clare, Cork, Donegal, Dublin, Galway, Kerry,
    Kildare, Kilkenny, Laois, Leitrim, Limerick, Longford, Louth, Mayo, Meath,
    Monaghan, Offaly, Roscommon, Sligo, Tipperary, Waterford, Westmeath,
    Wexford, Wicklow
Independence:
    6 December 1921 (from UK)
Constitution:
    29 December 1937; adopted 1937
Legal system:
    based on English common law, substantially modified by indigenous concepts;
    judicial review of legislative acts in Supreme Court; has not accepted
    compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
National holiday:
    Saint Patrick's Day, 17 March
Executive branch:
    president, prime minister, deputy prime minister, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    bicameral Parliament (Oireachtas) consists of an upper house or Senate
    (Seanad Eireann) and a lower house or House of Representatives (Dail
    Eireann)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Mary Bourke ROBINSON (since 9 November 1990)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Albert REYNOLDS (since 11 February 1992)
Political parties and leaders:
    Fianna Fail, Albert REYNOLDS; Labor Party, Richard SPRING; Fine Gael, John
    BRUTON; Communist Party of Ireland, Michael O'RIORDAN; Workers' Party
    (vacant); Sinn Fein, Gerry ADAMS; Progressive Democrats, Desmond O'MALLEY;
    note - Prime Minister REYNOLDS heads a coalition consisting of the Fianna
    Fail and the Progressive Democrats
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  President:
    last held 9 November 1990 (next to be held November 1997); results - Mary
    Bourke ROBINSON 52.8%, Brian LENIHAN 47.2%
  Senate:
    last held on 17 February 1987 (next to be held February 1992); results -
    percent of vote by party NA; seats - (60 total, 49 elected) Fianna Fail 30,
    Fine Gael 16, Labor 3, independents 11
  House of Representatives:
    last held on 12 July 1989 (next to be held June 1994); results - Fianna Fail
    44.0%, Fine Gael 29.4%, Labor Party 9.3%, Progressive Democrats 5.4%,
    Workers' Party 4.9%, Sinn Fein 1.1%, independents 5.9%; seats - (166 total)
    Fianna Fail 77, Fine Gael 55, Labor Party 15, Workers' Party 7, Progressive
    Democrats 6, independents 6
Communists:
    under 500

:Ireland Government

Member of:
    AG, BIS, CCC, CE, CSCE, EBRD, EC, ECE, EIB, ESA, FAO, GATT, IAEA, IBRD,
    ICAO, ICC, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, ISO,
    ITU, LORCS, NEA, NSG, OECD, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNFICYP, UNIDO, UNIFIL,
    UNIIMOG, UNTSO, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, ZC
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Dermot GALLAGHER; Chancery at 2234 Massachusetts Avenue NW,
    Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 462-3939; there are Irish Consulates
    General in Boston, Chicago, New York, and San Francisco
  US:
    Ambassador Richard A. MOORE; Embassy at 42 Elgin Road, Ballsbridge, Dublin;
    telephone [353] (1) 688777; FAX [353] (1) 689-946
Flag:
    three equal vertical bands of green (hoist side), white, and orange; similar
    to the flag of the Ivory Coast, which is shorter and has the colors reversed
    - orange (hoist side), white, and green; also similar to the flag of Italy,
    which is shorter and has colors of green (hoist side), white, and red

:Ireland Economy

Overview:
    The economy is small, open, and trade dependent. Agriculture, once the most
    important sector, is now dwarfed by industry, which accounts for 37% of GDP
    and about 80% of exports and employs 26% of the labor force. The government
    has successfully reduced the rate of inflation from double-digit figures in
    the late 1970s to 3.8% in 1991. In 1987, after years of deficits, the
    balance of payments was brought into the black. Unemployment, however,
    remains a serious problem. A 1991 unemployment rate of 20.4% placed Ireland
    along with Spain as the countries with the worst jobless records in Western
    Europe.
GDP:
    purchasing power equivalent - $39.2 billion, per capita $11,200; real growth
    rate 1.3% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    3.8% (1991)
Unemployment rate:
    20.4% (1991)
Budget:
    revenues $11.4 billion; expenditures $12.6 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $1.6 billion (1992 est.)
Exports:
    $27.8 billion (f.o.b., 1991)
  commodities:
    chemicals, data processing equipment, industrial machinery, live animals,
    animal products
  partners:
    EC 74% (UK 34%, Germany 11%, France 10%), US 8%
Imports:
    $24.5 billion (c.i.f., 1991)
  commodities:
    food, animal feed, chemicals, petroleum and petroleum products, machinery,
    textiles, clothing
  partners:
    EC 66% (UK 41%, Germany 9%, France 4%), US 14%
External debt:
    $14.8 billion (1990)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 3.0% (1991); accounts for 37% of GDP
Electricity:
    4,957,000 kW capacity; 14,480 million kWh produced, 4,080 kWh per capita
    (1991)
Industries:
    food products, brewing, textiles, clothing, chemicals, pharmaceuticals,
    machinery, transportation equipment, glass and crystal
Agriculture:
    accounts for 11% of GDP and 15% of the labor force; principal crops -
    turnips, barley, potatoes, sugar beets, wheat; livestock - meat and dairy
    products; 85% self-sufficient in food; food shortages include bread grain,
    fruits, vegetables
Economic aid:
    donor - ODA commitments (1980-89), $90 million
Currency:
    Irish pound (plural - pounds); 1 Irish pound (#Ir) = 100 pence
Exchange rates:
    Irish pounds (#Ir) per US$1 - 0.6227 (March 1992), 0.6190 (1991), 0.6030
    (1990), 0.7472 (1989), 0.6553 (1988), 0.6720 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Ireland Communications

Railroads:
    Irish National Railways (CIE) operates 1,947 km 1.602-meter gauge,
    government owned; 485 km double track; 38 km electrified
Highways:
    92,294 km total; 87,422 km paved, 4,872 km gravel or crushed stone
Inland waterways:
    limited for commercial traffic
Pipelines:
    natural gas 225 km
Ports:
    Cork, Dublin, Shannon Estuary, Waterford
Merchant marine:
    55 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 146,081 GRT/177,058 DWT; includes 4
    short-sea passenger, 32 cargo, 2 refrigerated cargo, 3 container, 3
    petroleum tanker, 3 specialized tanker, 2 chemical tanker, 6 bulk
Civil air:
    23 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    36 total, 35 usable; 17 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 2 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 6 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    small, modern system using cable and digital microwave circuits; 900,000
    telephones; broadcast stations - 9 AM, 45 FM, 86 TV; 2 coaxial submarine
    cables; 1 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT earth station

:Ireland Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army (including Naval Service and Air Corps), National Police (GARDA)
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 894,421; 724,262 fit for military service; 34,182 reach
    military age (17) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $566 million, 1-2% of GDP (1992 est.)

:Israel Header

Note:
    The Arab territories occupied by Israel since the 1967 war are not included
    in the data below. As stated in the 1978 Camp David Accords and reaffirmed
    by President Bush's post-Gulf crisis peace initiative, the final status of
    the West Bank and Gaza Strip, their relationship with their neighbors, and a
    peace treaty between Israel and Jordan are to be negotiated among the
    concerned parties. The Camp David Accords further specify that these
    negotiations will resolve the location of the respective boundaries. Pending
    the completion of this process, it is US policy that the final status of the
    West Bank and Gaza Strip has yet to be determined (see West Bank and Gaza
    Strip entries). On 25 April 1982 Israel relinquished control of the Sinai to
    Egypt. Statistics for the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights are included in the
    Syria entry.

:Israel Geography

Total area:
    20,770 km2
Land area:
    20,330 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than New Jersey
Land boundaries:
    1,006 km; Egypt 255 km, Jordan 238 km, Lebanon 79 km, Syria 76 km, West Bank
    307, Gaza Strip 51 km
Coastline:
    273 km
Maritime claims:
  Continental shelf:
    to depth of exploitation
  Territorial sea:
    6 nm
Disputes:
    separated from Lebanon, Syria, and the West Bank by the 1949 Armistice Line;
    differences with Jordan over the location of the 1949 Armistice Line that
    separates the two countries; West Bank and Gaza Strip are Israeli occupied
    with status to be determined; Golan Heights is Israeli occupied; Israeli
    troops in southern Lebanon since June 1982; water-sharing issues with Jordan
Climate:
    temperate; hot and dry in desert areas
Terrain:
    Negev desert in the south; low coastal plain; central mountains; Jordan Rift
    Valley
Natural resources:
    copper, phosphates, bromide, potash, clay, sand, sulfur, asphalt, manganese,
    small amounts of natural gas and crude oil
Land use:
    arable land 17%; permanent crops 5%; meadows and pastures 40%; forest and
    woodland 6%; other 32%; includes irrigated 11%
Environment:
    sandstorms may occur during spring and summer; limited arable land and
    natural water resources pose serious constraints; deforestation
Note:
    there are 175 Jewish settlements in the West Bank, 38 in the
    Israeli-occupied Golan Heights, 18 in the Gaza Strip, and 14 Israeli-built
    Jewish neighborhoods in East Jerusalem

:Israel People

Population:
    4,748,059 (July 1992), growth rate 4.0% (1992); includes 95,000 Jewish
    settlers in the West Bank, 14,000 in the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights,
    4,000 in the Gaza Strip, and 132,000 in East Jerusalem (1992 est.)
Birth rate:
    21 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    6 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    26 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    9 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    76 years male, 80 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    2.9 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Israeli(s); adjective - Israeli
Ethnic divisions:
    Jewish 83%, non-Jewish (mostly Arab) 17%
Religions:
    Judaism 82%, Islam (mostly Sunni Muslim) 14%, Christian 2%, Druze and other
    2%
Languages:
    Hebrew (official); Arabic used officially for Arab minority; English most
    commonly used foreign language
Literacy:
    92% (male 95%, female 89%) age 15 and over can read and write (1983)
Labor force:
    1,400,000 (1984 est.); public services 29.3%; industry, mining, and
    manufacturing 22.8%; commerce 12.8%; finance and business 9.5%; transport,
    storage, and communications 6.8%; construction and public works 6.5%;
    personal and other services 5.8%; agriculture, forestry, and fishing 5.5%;
    electricity and water 1.0% (1983)
Organized labor:
    90% of labor force

:Israel Government

Long-form name:
    State of Israel
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Israel proclaimed Jerusalem its capital in 1950, but the US, like nearly all
    other countries, maintains its Embassy in Tel Aviv
Administrative divisions:
    6 districts (mehozot, singular - mehoz); Central, Haifa, Jerusalem,
    Northern, Southern, Tel Aviv
Independence:
    14 May 1948 (from League of Nations mandate under British administration)
Constitution:
    no formal constitution; some of the functions of a constitution are filled
    by the Declaration of Establishment (1948), the basic laws of the parliament
    (Knesset), and the Israeli citizenship law
Legal system:
    mixture of English common law, British Mandate regulations, and, in personal
    matters, Jewish, Christian, and Muslim legal systems; in December 1985,
    Israel informed the UN Secretariat that it would no longer accept compulsory
    ICJ jurisdiction
National holiday:
    Independence Day; Israel declared independence on 14 May 1948, but the
    Jewish calendar is lunar and the holiday may occur in April or May
Executive branch:
    president, prime minister, vice prime minister, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    unicameral parliament (Knesset)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Chaim HERZOG (since 5 May 1983)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Yitzhak SHAMIR (since 20 October 1986)
Political parties and leaders:
    Israel currently has a coalition government comprising 12 parties that hold
    66 of the Knesset's 120 seats; currently in state of flux; election held 23
    June 1992
  Members of the government:
    Likud bloc, Prime Minister Yitzhak SHAMIR; Sephardic Torah Guardians (SHAS),
    Minister of Interior Arieh DER'I; National Religious Party, Minister of
    Education Shulamit ALONI; Agudat Israel, Avraham SHAPIRA; Degel HaTorah,
    Avraham RAVITZ; Moriya, Minister of Immigrant Absorption, Yair TZABAN;
    Ge'ulat Israel, Eliezer MIZRAHI; New Liberal Party, Minister of Finance,
    Avraham SHOCHAT; Tehiya Party, Minister of Science Technology, Yuval NEEMAN;
    Tzomet Party Unity for Peace and Aliyah, Rafael EITAN; Moledet Party,
    Rehavam ZEEVI
  Opposition parties:
    Labor Party, Shimon PERES; Citizens' Rights Movement, Shulamit ALONI; United
    Workers' Party (MAPAM), Yair TZABAN; Center Movement-Shinui, Amnon
    RUBENSTEIN; New Israeli Communist Party (MAKI), Meir WILNER; Progressive
    List for Peace, Muhammad MI'ARI; Arab Democratic Party, `Abd Al Wahab
    DARAWSHAH; Black Panthers, Charlie BITON
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18

:Israel Government

Elections:
  President:
    last held 23 February 1988 (next to be held February 1994); results - Chaim
    HERZOG reelected by Knesset
  Knesset:
    last held June 1992 (next to be held by NA; results - percent of vote by
    party NA; seats - (120 total) Labor Party 44, Likud bloc 12, SHAS 6,
    National Religious Party 6, Meretz 12, Agudat Yisrael 4, PAZI 3, MAKI 3,
    Tehiya Party 3, Tzomet Party 8, Moledet Party 3, Degel HaTorah 4, Center
    Movement Progressive List for Peace 1, Arab Democratic Party 2; Black
    Panthers 1, Moriya 1, Ge'ulat Yisrael 1, Unity for Peace and Aliyah 1
Communists:
    Hadash (predominantly Arab but with Jews in its leadership) has some 1,500
    members
Other political or pressure groups:
    Gush Emunim, Jewish nationalists advocating Jewish settlement on the West
    Bank and Gaza Strip; Peace Now, critical of government's West Bank/Gaza
    Strip and Lebanon policies
Member of:
    AG (observer), CCC, EBRD, FAO, GATT, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU,
    IDA, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INMARSAT, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, IOM, ISO,
    ITU, OAS (observer), PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UPU, WHO, WIPO,
    WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Zalman SHOVAL; Chancery at 3514 International Drive NW,
    Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 364-5500; there are Israeli Consulates
    General in Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami, New York,
    Philadelphia, and San Francisco
  US:
    Ambassador William HARROP; Embassy at 71 Hayarkon Street, Tel Aviv (mailing
    address is APO AE 09830; telephone [972] (3) 654338; FAX [972] (3) 663449;
    there is a US Consulate General in Jerusalem
Flag:
    white with a blue hexagram (six-pointed linear star) known as the Magen
    David (Shield of David) centered between two equal horizontal blue bands
    near the top and bottom edges of the flag

:Israel Economy

Overview:
    Israel has a market economy with substantial government participation. It
    depends on imports of crude oil, grains, raw materials, and military
    equipment. Despite limited natural resources, Israel has intensively
    developed its agricultural and industrial sectors over the past 20 years.
    Industry employs about 20% of Israeli workers, agriculture 5%, and services
    most of the rest. Diamonds, high-technology equipment, and agricultural
    products (fruits and vegetables) are leading exports. Israel usually posts
    balance-of-payments deficits, which are covered by large transfer payments
    from abroad and by foreign loans. Roughly half of the government's $17
    billion external debt is owed to the United States, which is its major
    source of economic and military aid. To earn needed foreign exchange, Israel
    has been targeting high-technology niches in international markets, such as
    medical scanning equipment. Iraq's invasion of Kuwait in August 1990 dealt a
    blow to Israel's economy. Higher world oil prices added an estimated $300
    million to the oil import bill that year and helped keep annual inflation at
    18%. Regional tension and the continuing Palestinian uprising (intifadah)
    have contributed to a sharp drop in tourism - a key foreign exchange earner
    - to the lowest level since the 1973 Arab-Israeli war. The influx of Jewish
    immigrants from the former USSR, which topped 330,000 during the period
    1990-91, will increase unemployment, intensify housing problems, widen the
    government budget deficit, and fuel inflation.
GDP:
    purchasing power equivalent - $54.6 billion, per capita $12,000; real growth
    rate 5% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    18% (1991 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    11% (1991 est.)
Budget:
    revenues $41.7 billion; expenditures $47.6 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $NA (FY92)
Exports:
    $12.1 billion (f.o.b., 1991 est.)
  commodities:
    polished diamonds, citrus and other fruits, textiles and clothing, processed
    foods, fertilizer and chemical products, military hardware, electronics
  partners:
    US, EC, Japan, Hong Kong, Switzerland
Imports:
    $18.1 billion (c.i.f., 1991 est.)
  commodities:
    military equipment, rough diamonds, oil, chemicals, machinery, iron and
    steel, cereals, textiles, vehicles, ships, aircraft
  partners:
    US, EC, Switzerland, Japan, South Africa, Canada, Hong Kong
External debt:
    $24 billion, of which government debt is $17 billion (December 1991 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate - 7% (1991 est.); accounts for about 20% of GDP
Electricity:
    5,300,000 kWh capacity; 21,000 million kWh produced, 4,800 kWh per capita
    (1991)
Industries:
    food processing, diamond cutting and polishing, textiles, clothing,
    chemicals, metal products, military equipment, transport equipment,
    electrical equipment, miscellaneous machinery, potash mining,
    high-technology electronics, tourism

:Israel Economy

Agriculture:
    accounts for about 3% of GDP; largely self-sufficient in food production,
    except for grains; principal products - citrus and other fruits, vegetables,
    cotton; livestock products - beef, dairy, and poultry
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-90), $18.2 billion; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $2.8 billion
Currency:
    new Israeli shekel (plural - shekels); 1 new Israeli shekel (NIS) = 100 new
    agorot
Exchange rates:
    new Israeli shekels (NIS) per US$1 - 2.4019 (March 1992), 2.2791 (1991),
    2.0162 (1990), 1.9164 (1989), 1.5989 (1988), 1.5946 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    previously 1 April - 31 March; FY91 was 1 April - 31 December, and since 1
    January 1992 the fiscal year has conformed to the calendar year

:Israel Communications

Railroads:
    600 km 1.435-meter gauge, single track; diesel operated
Highways:
    4,750 km; majority is bituminous surfaced
Pipelines:
    crude oil 708 km; petroleum products 290 km; natural gas 89 km
Ports:
    Ashdod, Haifa
Merchant marine:
    34 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 629,966 GRT/721,106 DWT; includes 8
    cargo, 23 container, 2 refrigerated cargo, 1 roll-on/roll-off; note - Israel
    also maintains a significant flag of convenience fleet, which is normally at
    least as large as the Israeli flag fleet; the Israeli flag of convenience
    fleet typically includes all of its petroleum tankers
Civil air:
    32 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    51 total, 44 usable; 26 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 6 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 11 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    most highly developed in the Middle East although not the largest; good
    system of coaxial cable and radio relay; 1,800,000 telephones; broadcast
    stations - 14 AM, 21 FM, 20 TV; 3 submarine cables; satellite earth stations
    - 2 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT and 1 Indian Ocean INTELSAT

:Israel Defense Forces

Branches:
    Israel Defense Forces, including ground, naval, and air components;
    historically, there have been no separate Israeli military services
Manpower availability:
    eligible 15-49, 2,357,195; of the 1,189,275 males 15-49, 977,332 are fit for
    military service; of the 1,167,920 females 15-49, 955,928 are fit for
    military service; 44,624 males and 42,705 females reach military age (18)
    annually; both sexes are liable for military service; Nahal or Pioneer
    Fighting Youth, Frontier Guard, Chen
Defense expenditures:
    $7.5 billion, 12.1% of GNP (1992 budget); note - does not include pay for
    reserve soldiers and other defense-related categories; actual outlays would
    therefore be higher

:Italy Geography

Total area:
    301,230 km2
Land area:
    294, 020 km2; includes Sardinia and Sicily
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than Arizona
Land boundaries:
    1,899.2 km; Austria 430 km, France 488 km, San Marino 39 km, Slovenia 199
    km, Switzerland 740 km, Vatican City 3.2 km
Coastline:
    4,996 km
Maritime claims:
  Continental shelf:
    200 m (depth) or to depth of exploitation
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    predominantly Mediterranean; Alpine in far north; hot, dry in south
Terrain:
    mostly rugged and mountainous; some plains, coastal lowlands
Natural resources:
    mercury, potash, marble, sulfur, dwindling natural gas and crude oil
    reserves, fish, coal
Land use:
    arable land 32%; permanent crops 10%; meadows and pastures 17%; forest and
    woodland 22%; other 19%; includes irrigated 10%
Environment:
    regional risks include land-slides, mudflows, snowslides, earthquakes,
    volcanic eruptions, flooding, pollution; land sinkage in Venice
Note:
    strategic location dominating central Mediterranean as well as southern sea
    and air approaches to Western Europe

:Italy People

Population:
    57,904,628 (July 1992), growth rate 0.2% (1992)
Birth rate:
    10 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    10 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    1 migrant/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    8 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    74 years male, 81 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    1.4 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Italian(s); adjective - Italian
Ethnic divisions:
    primarily Italian but population includes small clusters of German-,
    French-, and Slovene-Italians in the north and Albanian-Italians and
    Greek-Italians in the south; Sicilians; Sardinians
Religions:
    virtually 100% Roman Catholic
Languages:
    Italian; parts of Trentino-Alto Adige region are predominantly German
    speaking; small French-speaking minority in Valle d'Aosta region;
    Slovene-speaking minority in the Trieste-Gorizia area
Literacy:
    97% (male 98%, female 96%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    23,988,000; services 58%, industry 32.2%, agriculture 9.8% (1988)
Organized labor:
    40-45% of labor force (est.)

:Italy Government

Long-form name:
    Italian Republic
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Rome
Administrative divisions:
    20 regions (regioni, singular - regione); Abruzzi, Basilicata, Calabria,
    Campania, Emilia-Romagna, Friuli-Venezia Giulia, Lazio, Liguria, Lombardia,
    Marche, Molise, Piemonte, Puglia, Sardegna, Sicilia, Toscana, Trentino-Alto
    Adige, Umbria, Valle d'Aosta, Veneto
Independence:
    17 March 1861, Kingdom of Italy proclaimed
Constitution:
    1 January 1948
Legal system:
    based on civil law system, with ecclesiastical law influence; appeals
    treated as trials de novo; judicial review under certain conditions in
    Constitutional Court; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
National holiday:
    Anniversary of the Republic, 2 June (1946)
Executive branch:
    president, prime minister (president of the Council of Ministers)
Legislative branch:
    bicameral Parliament (Parlamento) consists of an upper chamber or Senate of
    the Republic (Senato della Repubblica) and a lower chamber or Chamber of
    Deputies (Camera dei Deputati)
Judicial branch:
    Constitutional Court (Corte Costituzionale)
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Oscar Luigi SCALFARO (since 28 May 1992)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Guiliano AMATO (since 28 June 1992); Deputy Prime Minister
Political parties and leaders:
    Christian Democratic Party (DC), Arnaldo FORLANI (general secretary),
    Ciriaco De MITA (president); Socialist Party (PSI), Bettino CRAXI (party
    secretary); Social Democratic Party (PSDI), Carlo VIZZINI (party secretary);
    Liberal Party (PLI), Renato ALTISSIMO (secretary general); Democratic Party
    of the Left (PDS - was Communist Party, or PCI, until January 1991), Achille
    OCCHETTO (secretary general); Italian Social Movement (MSI), Gianfranco FINI
    (national secretary); Republican Party (PRI), Giorgio La MALFA (political
    secretary); Lega Nord (Northern League), Umberto BOSSI, president
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18 (except in senatorial elections, where minimum age is
    25)
Elections:
  Senate:
    last held 5-6 April 1992 (next to be held by April 1997); results - DC
    33.9%, PCI 28.3%, PSI 10.7%, other 27.1%; seats - (326 total, 315 elected)
    DC 107, PDS 64, PSI 49, Leagues 25, other 70
  Chamber of Deputies:
    last held 5-6 April 1992 (next to be held April 1997); results - DC 29.7%,
    PDS 26.6%, PSI 13.6%, Leagues 8.7%, Communist Renewal 5.6%, MSI 5.4%, PRI
    4.4%, PLI 2.8%, PSDI 2.7%, other 11%

:Italy Government

Other political or pressure groups:
    the Roman Catholic Church; three major trade union confederations (CGIL -
    Communist dominated, CISL - Christian Democratic, and UIL - Social
    Democratic, Socialist, and Republican); Italian manufacturers association
    (Confindustria); organized farm groups (Confcoltivatori, Confagricoltura)
Member of:
    AfDB, AG (observer), Australia Group, AsDB, BIS, CCC, CDB (nonregional
    member), CE, CERN, COCOM, CSCE, EBRD, EC, ECE, EIB, ESA, FAO, G-7, G-10,
    GATT, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, IDA, IFAD, IEA, IFC, ILO, IMF,
    IMO, INMARSAT, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, LORCS, MTCR, NACC,
    NATO, NEA, NSG, OAS (observer), OECD, PCA, MTCR, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR,
    UNIDO, UNIFIL, UNIIMOG, UNMOGIP, UNTSO, UPU, WCL, WEU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO,
    ZC
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Boris BIANCHERI CHIAPPORI; Chancery at 1601 Fuller Street NW,
    Washington, DC 20009; telephone (202) 328-5500; there are Italian Consulates
    General in Boston, Chicago, Houston, New Orleans, Los Angeles, Philadelphia,
    San Francisco, and Consulates in Detroit and Newark (New Jersey)
  US:
    Ambassador Peter F. SECCHIA; Embassy at Via Veneto 119/A, 00187, Rome
    (mailing address is APO AE 09624); telephone [39] (6) 46741, FAX [39] (6)
    467-2356; there are US Consulates General in Florence, Genoa, Milan, Naples,
    and Palermo (Sicily)
Flag:
    three equal vertical bands of green (hoist side), white, and red; similar to
    the flag of Ireland, which is longer and is green (hoist side), white, and
    orange; also similar to the flag of the Ivory Coast, which has the colors
    reversed - orange (hoist side), white, and green

:Italy Economy

Overview:
    Since World War II the economy has changed from one based on agriculture
    into a ranking industrial economy, with approximately the same total and per
    capita output as France and the UK. The country is still divided into a
    developed industrial north, dominated by small private companies, and an
    undeveloped agricultural south, dominated by large public enterprises.
    Services account for 48% of GDP, industry about 35%, agriculture 4%, and
    public administration 13%. Most raw materials needed by industry and over
    75% of energy requirements must be imported. After growing at an annual
    average rate of 3% during the period 1983-90, growth slowed to about 1% in
    1991. For the 1990s, Italy faces the problems of refurbishing a tottering
    communications system, curbing pollution in major industrial centers, and
    adjusting to the new competitive forces accompanying the ongoing economic
    integration of the European Community.
GDP:
    purchasing power equivalent - $965.0 billion, per capita $16,700; real
    growth rate 1.0% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    6.5% (1991)
Unemployment rate:
    11.0% (1991 est.)
Budget:
    revenues $431 billion; expenditures $565 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $48 billion (1991)
Exports:
    $209 billion (f.o.b., 1991)
  commodities:
    textiles, wearing apparel, metals, transportation equipment, chemicals
  partners:
    EC 58.5%, US 8%, OPEC 4%
Imports:
    $222 billion (c.i.f., 1991)
  commodities:
    petroleum, industrial machinery, chemicals, metals, food, agricultural
    products
  partners:
    EC 58%, OPEC 7%, US 5%
External debt:
    NA
Industrial production:
    growth rate - 2.0% (1991); accounts for almost 35% of GDP
Electricity:
    57,500,000 kW capacity; 235,000 million kWh produced, 4,072 kWh per capita
    (1991)
Industries:
    machinery, iron and steel, chemicals, food processing, textiles, motor
    vehicles, clothing, footwear, ceramics
Agriculture:
    accounts for about 4% of GDP and 10% of the work force; self-sufficient in
    foods other than meat and dairy products; principal crops - fruits,
    vegetables, grapes, potatoes, sugar beets, soybeans, grain, olives; fish
    catch of 388,200 metric tons in 1988
Economic aid:
    donor - ODA and OOF commitments (1970-89), $25.9 billion
Currency:
    Italian lira (plural - lire); 1 Italian lira (Lit) = 100 centesimi
Exchange rates:
    Italian lire (Lit) per US$1 - 1,248.4 (March 1992), 1,240.6 (January 1991),
    1,198.1 (1990), 1,372.1 (1989), 1,301.6 (1988), 1,296.1 (1987)

:Italy Economy

Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Italy Communications

Railroads:
    20,011 km total; 16,066 km 1.435-meter government-owned standard gauge
    (8,999 km electrified); 3,945 km privately owned - 2,100 km 1.435-meter
    standard gauge (1,155 km electrified) and 1,845 km 0.950-meter narrow gauge
    (380 km electrified)
Highways:
    294,410 km total; autostrada (expressway) 5,900 km, state highways 45,170
    km, provincial highways 101,680 km, communal highways 141,660 km; 260,500 km
    paved, 26,900 km gravel and crushed stone, 7,010 km earth
Inland waterways:
    2,400 km for various types of commercial traffic, although of limited
    overall value
Pipelines:
    crude oil 1,703 km; petroleum products 2,148 km; natural gas 19,400 km
Ports:
    Cagliari (Sardinia), Genoa, La Spezia, Livorno, Naples, Palermo (Sicily),
    Taranto, Trieste, Venice
Merchant marine:
    546 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 7,004,462 GRT/10,265,132 DWT;
    includes 17 passenger, 39 short-sea passenger, 94 cargo, 4 refrigerated
    cargo, 24 container, 66 roll-on/roll-off cargo, 9 vehicle carrier, 1
    multifunction large-load carrier, 1 livestock carrier, 142 petroleum tanker,
    33 chemical tanker, 39 liquefied gas, 10 specialized tanker, 10 combination
    ore/oil, 55 bulk, 2 combination bulk
Civil air:
    125 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    137 total, 134 usable; 91 with permanent-surface runways; 2 with runways
    over 3,659 m; 36 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 39 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    modern, well-developed, fast; 25,600,000 telephones; fully automated
    telephone, telex, and data services; high-capacity cable and radio relay
    trunks; very good broadcast service by stations - 135 AM, 28 (1,840
    repeaters) FM, 83 (1,000 repeaters) TV; international service by 21
    submarine cables; 3 satellite earth stations operating in INTELSAT with 3
    Atlantic Ocean antennas and 2 Indian Ocean antennas; also participates in
    INMARSAT and EUTELSAT systems

:Italy Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Navy, Air Force, Carabinieri
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 14,864,191; 12,980,362 fit for military service; 441,768 reach
    military age (18) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $22.7 billion, 2.2% of GDP (1991)

:Ivory Coast Geography

Total area:
    322,460 km2
Land area:
    318,000 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than New Mexico
Land boundaries:
    3,110 km; Burkina 584 km, Ghana 668 km, Guinea 610 km, Liberia 716 km, Mali
    532 km
Coastline:
    515 km
Maritime claims:
  Continental shelf:
    200 m (depth)
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    tropical along coast, semiarid in far north; three seasons - warm and dry
    (November to March), hot and dry (March to May), hot and wet (June to
    October)
Terrain:
    mostly flat to undulating plains; mountains in northwest
Natural resources:
    crude oil, diamonds, manganese, iron ore, cobalt, bauxite, copper
Land use:
    arable land 9%; permanent crops 4%; meadows and pastures 9%; forest and
    woodland 26%; other 52%; includes irrigated NEGL%
Environment:
    coast has heavy surf and no natural harbors; severe deforestation

:Ivory Coast People

Population:
    13,497,153 (July 1992), growth rate 3.9% (1992)
Birth rate:
    47 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    12 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    3 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    94 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    53 years male, 57 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    6.8 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Ivorian(s); adjective - Ivorian
Ethnic divisions:
    over 60 ethnic groups; most important are the Baoule 23%, Bete 18%, Senoufou
    15%, Malinke 11%, and Agni; foreign Africans, mostly Burkinabe about 2
    million; non-Africans about 130,000 to 330,000 (French 30,000 and Lebanese
    100,000 to 300,000)
Religions:
    indigenous 63%, Muslim 25%, Christian 12%,
Languages:
    French (official), over 60 native dialects; Dioula most widely spoken
Literacy:
    54% (male 67%, female 40%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    5,718,000; over 85% of population engaged in agriculture, forestry,
    livestock raising; about 11% of labor force are wage earners, nearly half in
    agriculture and the remainder in government, industry, commerce, and
    professions; 54% of population of working age (1985)
Organized labor:
    20% of wage labor force

:Ivory Coast Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of the Ivory Coast; note - the local official name is Republique de
    Cote d'Ivoire
Type:
    republic; multiparty presidential regime established 1960
Capital:
    Yamoussoukro (although Yamoussoukro has been the capital since 1983, Adibjan
    remains the administrative center; foreign governments, including the United
    States, maintain presence in Abidjan)
Administrative divisions:
    49 departments (departements, singular - (departement); Abengourou, Abidjan,
    Aboisso, Adzope, Agboville, Bangolo, Beoumi, Biankouma, Bondoukou,
    Bongouanou, Bouafle, Bouake, Bouna, Boundiali, Dabakala, Daloa, Danane,
    Daoukro, Dimbokro, Divo, Duekoue, Ferkessedougou, Gagnoa, Grand-Lahou,
    Guiglo, Issia, Katiola, Korhogo, Lakota, Man, Mankono, Mbahiakro, Odienne,
    Oume, Sakassou, San-Pedro, Sassandra, Seguela, Sinfra, Soubre, Tabou, Tanda,
    Tingrela, Tiassale, Touba, Toumodi, Vavoua, Yamoussoukro, Zuenoula
Independence:
    7 August 1960 (from France)
Constitution:
    3 November 1960
Legal system:
    based on French civil law system and customary law; judicial review in the
    Constitutional Chamber of the Supreme Court; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
    jurisdiction
National holiday:
    National Day, 7 December
Executive branch:
    president, Council of Ministers (cabinet)
Legislative branch:
    unicameral National Assembly (Assemblee Nationale)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court (Cour Supreme)
Leaders:
  Chief of State and Head of Government:
    President Dr. Felix HOUPHOUET-BOIGNY (since 27 November 1960); Prime
    Minister Alassane OUATTARA (since 7 November 1990)
Political parties and leaders:
    Democratic Party of the Ivory Coast (PDCI), Dr. Felix HOUPHOUET-BOIGNY;
    Ivorian Popular Front (FPI), Laurent GBAGBO; Ivorian Worker's Party (PIT),
    Francis WODIE; Ivorian Socialist Party (PSI), Morifere BAMBA; over 20
    smaller parties
Suffrage:
    universal at age 21
Elections:
  President:
    last held 28 October 1990 (next to be held October 1995); results -
    President Felix HOUPHOUET-BOIGNY received 81% of the vote in his first
    contested election; he is currently serving his seventh consecutive
    five-year term
  National Assembly:
    last held 25 November 1990 (next to be held November 1995); results -
    percent of vote by party NA; seats - (175 total) PDCI 163, FPI 9, PIT 1,
    independents 2
Member of:
    ACCT, ACP, AfDB, CCC, CEAO, ECA, ECOWAS, Entente, FAO, FZ, G-24, G-77, GATT,
    IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, IDA, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INTELSAT, INTERPOL,
    IOC, ISO, ITU, LORCS, NAM, OAU, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WADB, WCL,
    WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

:Ivory Coast Government

Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Charles GOMIS; Chancery at 2424 Massachusetts Avenue NW,
    Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 797-0300
  US:
    Ambassador Kenneth L. BROWN; Embassy at 5 Rue Jesse Owens, Abidjan (mailing
    address is 01 B. P. 1712, Abidjan); telephone [225] 21-09-79 or 21-46-72,
    FAX [225] 22-32-59
Flag:
    three equal vertical bands of orange (hoist side), white, and green; similar
    to the flag of Ireland, which is longer and has the colors reversed - green
    (hoist side), white, and orange; also similar to the flag of Italy, which is
    green (hoist side), white, and red; design was based on the flag of France

:Ivory Coast Economy

Overview:
    Ivory Coast is among the world's largest producers and exporters of coffee,
    cocoa beans, and palm-kernel oil. Consequently, the economy is highly
    sensitive to fluctuations in international prices for coffee and cocoa and
    to weather conditions. Despite attempts by the government to diversify, the
    economy is still largely dependent on agriculture and related industries.
    The agricultural sector accounts for over one-third of GDP and about 80% of
    export earnings and employs about 85% of the labor force. A collapse of
    world cocoa and coffee prices in 1986 threw the economy into a recession,
    from which the country had not recovered by 1990. Continuing poor prices for
    commodity exports, an overvalued exchange rate, a bloated public-sector wage
    bill, and a large foreign debt hindered economic recovery in 1991.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $10 billion, per capita $800; real growth rate
    -2.9% (1990)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    -0.8% (1990 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    14% (1985)
Budget:
    revenues $2.8 billion (1989 est.); expenditures $4.1 billion, including
    capital expenditures of $NA (1989 est.)
Exports:
    $2.5 billion (f.o.b., 1989)
  commodities:
    cocoa 30%, coffee 20%, tropical woods 11%, cotton, bananas, pineapples, palm
    oil, cotton
  partners:
    France, FRG, Netherlands, US, Belgium, Spain (1985)
Imports:
    $1.4 billion (f.o.b., 1989)
  commodities:
    manufactured goods and semifinished products 50%, consumer goods 40%, raw
    materials and fuels 10%
  partners:
    France, other EC, Nigeria, US, Japan (1985)
External debt:
    $15.0 billion (1990 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate - 6% (1989); accounts for 17% of GDP
Electricity:
    1,210,000 kW capacity; 2,680 million kWh produced, 210 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    foodstuffs, wood processing, oil refinery, automobile assembly, textiles,
    fertilizer, beverage
Agriculture:
    most important sector, contributing one-third to GDP and 80% to exports;
    cash crops include coffee, cocoa beans, timber, bananas, palm kernels,
    rubber; food crops - corn, rice, manioc, sweet potatoes; not self-sufficient
    in bread grain and dairy products
Illicit drugs:
    illicit producer of cannabis on a small scale for the international drug
    trade
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $356 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-88), $5.2 billion
Currency:
    Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (plural - francs); 1 CFA franc (CFAF)
    = 100 centimes

:Ivory Coast Economy

Exchange rates:
    Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (CFAF) per US$1 - 269.01 (January
    1992), 282.11 (1991), 272.26 (1990), 319.01 (1989), 297.85 (1988), 300.54
    (1987), 346.30 (1986)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Ivory Coast Communications

Railroads:
    660 km (Burkina border to Abidjan, 1.00-meter gauge, single track, except 25
    km Abidjan-Anyama section is double track)
Highways:
    46,600 km total; 3,600 km paved; 32,000 km gravel, crushed stone, laterite,
    and improved earth; 11,000 km unimproved
Inland waterways:
    980 km navigable rivers, canals, and numerous coastal lagoons
Ports:
    Abidjan, San-Pedro
Merchant marine:
    7 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 70,957 GRT/ 91,782 DWT; includes 5
    cargo, 1 petroleum tanker, 1 chemical tanker
Civil air:
    14 major transport aircraft, including multinationally owned Air Afrique
    fleet
Airports:
    45 total, 39 usable; 7 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 3 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 15 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    well-developed by African standards but operating well below capacity;
    consists of open-wire lines and radio relay links; 87,700 telephones;
    broadcast stations - 3 AM, 17 FM, 13 TV, 1 Atlantic Ocean and 1 Indian Ocean
    INTELSAT earth station; 2 coaxial submarine cables

:Ivory Coast Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Navy, Air Force, paramilitary Gendarmerie, Republican Guard, Military
    Fire Group
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 3,083,765; 1,597,108 fit for military service; 141,259 males
    reach military age (18) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $200 million, 2.3% of GDP (1988)

:Jamaica Geography

Total area:
    10,990 km2
Land area:
    10,830 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than Connecticut
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    1,022 km
Maritime claims:
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    tropical; hot, humid; temperate interior
Terrain:
    mostly mountains with narrow, discontinuous coastal plain
Natural resources:
    bauxite, gypsum, limestone
Land use:
    arable land 19%; permanent crops 6%; meadows and pastures 18%; forest and
    woodland 28%; other 29%; includes irrigated 3%
Environment:
    subject to hurricanes (especially July to November); deforestation; water
    pollution
Note:
    strategic location between Cayman Trench and Jamaica Channel, the main sea
    lanes for Panama Canal

:Jamaica People

Population:
    2,506,701 (July 1992), growth rate 0.9% (1992)
Birth rate:
    23 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    6 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    -8 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    18 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    72 years male, 76 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    2.5 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Jamaican(s); adjective - Jamaican
Ethnic divisions:
    African 76.3%, Afro-European 15.1%, East Indian and Afro-East Indian 3.0%,
    white 3.2%, Chinese and Afro-Chinese 1.2%, other 1.2%
Religions:
    predominantly Protestant 55.9% (Church of God 18.4%, Baptist 10%, Anglican
    7.1%, Seventh-Day Adventist 6.9%, Pentecostal 5.2%, Methodist 3.1%, United
    Church 2.7%, other 2.5%), Roman Catholic 5%, other 39.1%, including some
    spiritualist cults (1982)
Languages:
    English, Creole
Literacy:
    98% (male 98%, female 99%) age 15 and over having ever attended school (1990
    est.)
Labor force:
    1,062,100; services 41%, agriculture 22.5%, industry 19%; unemployed 17.5%
    (1989)
Organized labor:
    24% of labor force (1989)

:Jamaica Government

Long-form name:
    none
Type:
    parliamentary democracy
Capital:
    Kingston
Administrative divisions:
    14 parishes; Clarendon, Hanover, Kingston, Manchester, Portland, Saint
    Andrew, Saint Ann, Saint Catherine, Saint Elizabeth, Saint James, Saint
    Mary, Saint Thomas, Trelawny, Westmoreland
Independence:
    6 August 1962 (from UK)
Constitution:
    6 August 1962
Legal system:
    based on English common law; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
National holiday:
    Independence Day (first Monday in August)
Executive branch:
    British monarch, governor general, prime minister, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    bicameral Parliament consists of an upper house or Senate and a lower house
    or House of Representatives
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952), represented by Governor General
    Howard COOKE (since 1 August 1991)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister P. J. Patterson (since 30 March 1992)
Political parties and leaders:
    People's National Party (PNP) P. J. Patterson; Jamaica Labor Party (JLP),
    Edward SEAGA
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  House of Representatives:
    last held 9 February 1989 (next to be held by February 1994); results - PNP
    57%, JLP 43%; seats - (60 total) PNP 45, JLP 15
Other political or pressure groups:
    Rastafarians (black religious/racial cultists, pan-Africanists)
Member of:
    ACP, C, CARICOM, CCC, CDB, ECLAC, FAO, G-15, G-19, G-77, GATT, G-15, IADB,
    IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC,
    ISO, ITU, LAES, LORCS, NAM, OAS, OPANAL, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU,
    WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Richard BERNAL; Chancery at Suite 355, 1850 K Street NW,
    Washington, DC 20006; telephone (202) 452-0660; there are Jamaican
    Consulates General in Miami and New York
  US:
    Ambassador Glen A. HOLDEN; Embassy at 3rd Floor, Jamaica Mutual Life Center,
    2 Oxford Road, Kingston; telephone (809) 929-4850 through 4859, FAX (809)
    926-6743
Flag:
    diagonal yellow cross divides the flag into four triangles - green (top and
    bottom) and black (hoist side and fly side)

:Jamaica Economy

Overview:
    The economy is based on sugar, bauxite, and tourism. In 1985 it suffered a
    setback with the closure of some facilities in the bauxite and alumina
    industry, a major source of hard currency earnings. Since 1986 an economic
    recovery has been under way. In 1987 conditions began to improve for the
    bauxite and alumina industry because of increases in world metal prices. The
    recovery has also been supported by growth in the manufacturing and tourism
    sectors. In September 1988, Hurricane Gilbert inflicted severe damage on
    crops and the electric power system, a sharp but temporary setback to the
    economy. By October 1989 the economic recovery from the hurricane was
    largely complete, and real growth was up about 3% for 1989. In 1991,
    however, growth dropped to 1.0% as a result of the US recession, lower world
    bauxite prices, and monetary instability.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $3.6 billion, per capita $1,400; real growth rate
    1.0% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    80% (1991 projected)
Unemployment rate:
    15.1% (1991)
Budget:
    revenues $600 million; expenditures $736 million (FY91 est.)
Exports:
    $1.2 billion (f.o.b., 1991, projected)
  commodities:
    bauxite, alumina, sugar, bananas
  partners:
    US 36%, UK, Canada, Norway, Trinidad and Tobago
Imports:
    $1.8 billion (c.i.f., 1991 projected)
  commodities:
    petroleum, machinery, food, consumer goods, construction goods
  partners:
    US 48%, UK, Venezuela, Canada, Japan, Trinidad and Tobago
External debt:
    $3.8 billion (1991 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate - 2.0% (1990); accounts for almost 25% of GDP
Electricity:
    1,122,000 kW capacity; 2,520 million kWh produced, 1,012 kWh per capita
    (1991)
Industries:
    tourism, bauxite mining, textiles, food processing, light manufactures
Agriculture:
    accounts for about 9% of GDP, 22% of work force, and 17% of exports;
    commercial crops - sugarcane, bananas, coffee, citrus, potatoes, and
    vegetables; live-stock and livestock products include poultry, goats, milk;
    not self-sufficient in grain, meat, and dairy products
Illicit drugs:
    illicit cultivation of cannabis; transshipment point for cocaine from
    Central and South America to North America; government has an active
    cannabis eradication program
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $1.2 billion; other countries,
    ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $1.6 billion
Currency:
    Jamaican dollar (plural - dollars); 1 Jamaican dollar (J$) = 100 cents

:Jamaica Economy

Exchange rates:
    Jamaican dollars (J$) per US$1 - 21.946 (January 1992), 12.116 (1991), 7.184
    (1990), 5.7446 (1989), 5.4886 (1988), 5.4867 (1987), 5.4778 (1986)
Fiscal year:
    1 April - 31 March

:Jamaica Communications

Railroads:
    294 km, all 1.435-meter standard gauge, single track
Highways:
    18,200 km total; 12,600 km paved, 3,200 km gravel, 2,400 km improved earth
Pipelines:
    petroleum products 10 km
Ports:
    Kingston, Montego Bay
Merchant marine:
    4 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 9,619 GRT/16,302 DWT; includes 1
    roll-on/roll-off cargo, 1 petroleum tanker, 2 bulk
Civil air:
    8 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    36 total, 23 usable; 13 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 2 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 1 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    fully automatic domestic telephone network; 127,000 telephones; broadcast
    stations - 10 AM, 17 FM, 8 TV; 2 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT earth stations; 3
    coaxial submarine cables

:Jamaica Defense Forces

Branches:
    Jamaica Defense Force (including Coast Guard and Air Wing), Jamaica
    Constabulary Force
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 640,058; 454,131 fit for military service; no conscription;
    26,785 reach minimum volunteer age (18) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $20 million, less than 1% of GDP (FY91)

:Jan Mayen Geography

Total area:
    373 km2
Land area:
    373 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly more than twice the size of Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    124.1 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    10 nm
  Continental shelf:
    200 m (depth) or to depth of exploitation
  Exclusive fishing zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    4 nm
Disputes:
    Denmark has challenged Norway's maritime claims beween Greenland and Jan
    Mayen
Climate:
    arctic maritime with frequent storms and persistent fog
Terrain:
    volcanic island, partly covered by glaciers; Beerenberg is the highest peak,
    with an elevation of 2,277 meters
Natural resources:
    none
Land use:
    arable land 0%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 0%; forest and
    woodland 0%; other 100%
Environment:
    barren volcanic island with some moss and grass; volcanic activity resumed
    in 1970
Note:
    located north of the Arctic Circle about 590 km north-northeast of Iceland
    between the Greenland Sea and the Norwegian Sea

:Jan Mayen People

Population:
    no permanent inhabitants

:Jan Mayen Government

Long-form name:
    none
Type:
    territory of Norway
Capital:
    none; administered from Oslo, Norway, through a governor (sysselmann)
    resident in Longyearbyen (Svalbard)

:Jan Mayen Economy

Overview:
    Jan Mayen is a volcanic island with no exploitable natural resources.
    Economic activity is limited to providing services for employees of Norway's
    radio and meteorological stations located on the island.
Electricity:
    15,000 kW capacity; 40 million kWh produced, NA kWh per capita (1989)

:Jan Mayen Communications

Ports:
    none; offshore anchorage only
Airports:
    1 with runways 1,220 to 2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    radio and meteorological station

:Jan Mayen Defense Forces

Note:
    defense is the responsibility of Norway

:Japan Geography

Total area:
    377,835 km2
Land area:
    374,744 km2; includes Bonin Islands (Ogasawara-gunto), Daito-shoto,
    Minami-jima, Okinotori-shima, Ryukyu Islands (Nansei-shoto), and Volcano
    Islands (Kazan-retto)
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than California
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    29,751 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive fishing zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm (3 nm in international straits - La Perouse or Soya, Tsugaru, Osumi,
    and Eastern and Western channels of the Korea or Tsushima Strait)
Disputes:
    Etorofu, Kunashiri, and Shikotan Islands and the Habomai island group
    occupied by the Soviet Union in 1945, now administered by Russia, claimed by
    Japan; Liancourt Rocks disputed with South Korea; Senkaku-shoto (Senkaku
    Islands) claimed by China and Taiwan
Climate:
    varies from tropical in south to cool temperate in north
Terrain:
    mostly rugged and mountainous
Natural resources:
    negligible mineral resources, fish
Land use:
    arable land 13%; permanent crops 1%; meadows and pastures 1%; forest and
    woodland 67%; other 18%; includes irrigated 9%
Environment:
    many dormant and some active volcanoes; about 1,500 seismic occurrences
    (mostly tremors) every year; subject to tsunamis
Note:
    strategic location in northeast Asia

:Japan People

Population:
    124,460,481 (July 1992), growth rate 0.4% (1992)
Birth rate:
    10 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    7 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    4 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    77 years male, 82 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    1.6 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Japanese (singular and plural); adjective - Japanese
Ethnic divisions:
    Japanese 99.4%, other (mostly Korean) 0.6%
Religions:
    most Japanese observe both Shinto and Buddhist rites so the percentages add
    to more than 100% - Shinto 95.8%, Buddhist 76.3%, Christian 1.4%, other 12%
    (1985)
Languages:
    Japanese
Literacy:
    99% (male NA%, female NA%) age 15 and over can read and write (1970 est.)
Labor force:
    63,330,000; trade and services 54%; manufacturing, mining, and construction
    33%; agriculture, forestry, and fishing 7%; government 3% (1988)
Organized labor:
    about 29% of employed workers; public service 76.4%, transportation and
    telecommunications 57.9%, mining 48.7%, manufacturing 33.7%, services 18.2%,
    wholesale, retail, and restaurant 9.3%

:Japan Government

Long-form name:
    none
Type:
    constitutional monarchy
Capital:
    Tokyo
Administrative divisions:
    47 prefectures; Aichi, Akita, Aomori, Chiba, Ehime, Fukui, Fukuoka,
    Fukushima, Gifu, Gumma, Hiroshima, Hokkaido, Hyogo, Ibaraki, Ishikawa,
    Iwate, Kagawa, Kagoshima, Kanagawa, Kochi, Kumamoto, Kyoto, Mie, Miyagi,
    Miyazaki, Nagano, Nagasaki, Nara, Niigata, Oita, Okayama, Okinawa, Osaka,
    Saga, Saitama, Shiga, Shimane, Shizuoka, Tochigi, Tokushima, Tokyo, Tottori,
    Toyama, Wakayama, Yamagata, Yamaguchi, Yamanashi
Independence:
    660 BC, traditional founding by Emperor Jimmu
Constitution:
    3 May 1947
Legal system:
    civil law system with English-American influence; judicial review of
    legislative acts in the Supreme Court; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction,
    with reservations
National holiday:
    Birthday of the Emperor, 23 December (1933)
Executive branch:
    Emperor, prime minister, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    bicameral Diet (Kokkai) consists of an upper house or House of Councillors
    (Sangi-in) and a lower house or House of Representatives (Shugi-in)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Emperor AKIHITO (since 7 January 1989)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Kiichi MIYAZAWA (since 5 November 1991)
Political parties and leaders:
    Liberal Democratic Party (LDP), Kiichi MIYAZAWA, president; Tamisuke
    WATANUKI, secretary general; Social Democratic Party of Japan (SDPJ), Makoto
    TANABE, Chairman; Democratic Socialist Party (DSP), Keizo OUCHI, chairman;
    Japan Communist Party (JCP), Tetsuzo FUWA, Presidium chairman; Komeito
    (Clean Government Party, CGP), Koshiro ISHIDA, chairman
Suffrage:
    universal at age 20
Elections:
  House of Councillors:
    last held on 23 July 1989 (next to be held 26 July 1992); results - percent
    of vote by party NA; seats - (263 total) LDP 114, SDPJ 71, CGP 20, JCP 14,
    other 33
  House of Representatives:
    last held on 18 February 1990 (next to be held by February 1993); results -
    percent of vote by party NA; seats - (512 total) LDP 278, SDPJ 137, CGP 46,
    JCP 16, DSP 13, others 5, independents 6, vacant 11
Communists:
    about 490,000 registered Communist party members

:Japan Government

Member of:
    AfDB, AG (observer), Australia Group, APEC, AsDB, BIS, CCC, COCOM, CP, EBRD,
    ESCAP, FAO, G-2, G-5, G-7, G-8, G-10, GATT, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC,
    ICFTU, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INMARSAT, INTELSAT, INTERPOL,
    IOC, IOM (observer), ISO, ITU, LORCS, MTCR, NEA, NSG, OAS (observer), OECD,
    PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNRWA, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO,
    WTO, ZC
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Takakazu KURIYAMA; Chancery at 2520 Massachusetts Avenue NW,
    Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 939-6700; there are Japanese
    Consulates General in Agana (Guam), Anchorage, Atlanta, Boston, Chicago,
    Honolulu, Houston, Kansas City (Missouri), Los Angeles, New Orleans, New
    York, San Francisco, Seattle, and Portland (Oregon), and a Consulate in
    Saipan (Northern Mariana Islands)
  US:
    Ambassador Michael H. ARMACOST; Embassy at 10-5, Akasaka 1-chome, Minato-ku
    (107), Tokyo (mailing address is APO AP 96337-0001); telephone [81] (3)
    3224-5000; FAX [81] (3) 3505-1862; there are US Consulates General in Naha
    (Okinawa), Osaka-Kobe, and Sapporo and a Consulate in Fukuoka
Flag:
    white with a large red disk (representing the sun without rays) in the
    center

:Japan Economy

Overview:
    Government-industry cooperation, a strong work ethic, and a comparatively
    small defense allocation have helped Japan advance with extraordinary
    rapidity, notably in high-technology fields. Industry, the most important
    sector of the economy, is heavily dependent on imported raw materials and
    fuels. Self-sufficent in rice, Japan must import 50% of its requirements for
    other grain and fodder crops. Japan maintains one of the world's largest
    fishing fleets and accounts for nearly 15% of the global catch. Overall
    economic growth has been spectacular: a 10% average in the 1960s, a 5%
    average in the 1970s and 1980s. A major contributor to overall growth of
    4.5% in 1991 was net exports, which cushioned the effect of slower growth in
    domestic demand. Inflation remains low at 3.3% and is easing due to lower
    oil prices and a stronger yen. Japan continues to run a huge trade surplus,
    $80 billion in 1991, which supports extensive investment in foreign assets.
    The increased crowding of its habitable land area and the aging of its
    population are two major long-run problems.
GDP:
    purchasing power equivalent - $2,360.7 billion, per capita $19,000; real
    growth rate 4.5% (1991)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    3.3% (1991)
Unemployment rate:
    2.1% (1991)
Budget:
    revenues $481 billion; expenditures $531 billion, including capital
    expenditures (public works only) of about $60 billion (FY91)
Exports:
    $314.3 billion (f.o.b., 1991)
  commodities:
    manufactures 97% (including machinery 40%, motor vehicles 18%, consumer
    electronics 10%)
  partners:
    Southeast Asia 31%, US 29%, Western Europe 23%, Communist countries 4%,
    Middle East 3%
Imports:
    $236.6 billion (c.i.f., 1991)
  commodities:
    manufactures 50%, fossil fuels 21%, foodstuffs and raw materials 25%
  partners:
    Southeast Asia 25%, US 22%, Western Europe 17%, Middle East 12%, Communist
    countries 8%
External debt:
    $NA
Industrial production:
    growth rate 2.1% (1991); accounts for 30% of GDP (mining and manufacturing)
Electricity:
    196,000,000 kW capacity; 823,000 million kWh produced, 6,640 kWh per capita
    (1991)
Industries:
    metallurgy, engineering, electrical and electronic, textiles, chemicals,
    automobiles, fishing, telecommunications, machine tools, construction
    equipment
Agriculture:
    accounts for only 2% of GDP; highly subsidized and protected sector, with
    crop yields among highest in world; principal crops - rice, sugar beets,
    vegetables, fruit; animal products include pork, poultry, dairy and eggs;
    about 50% self-sufficient in food production; shortages of wheat, corn,
    soybeans; world's largest fish catch of 11.9 million metric tons in 1988

:Japan Economy

Economic aid:
    donor - ODA and OOF commitments (1970-89), $83.2 billion; ODA outlay of $9.1
    billion in 1990 (est.)
Currency:
    yen (plural - yen); 1 yen (Y) = 100 sen
Exchange rates:
    yen (Y) per US$1 - 132.70 (March 1992), 134.71 (1991), 144.79 (1990), 137.96
    (1989), 128.15 (1988), 144.64 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    1 April - 31 March

:Japan Communications

Railroads:
    27,327 km total; 2,012 km 1.435-meter standard gauge and 25,315 km
    predominantly 1.067-meter narrow gauge; 5,724 km doubletrack and multitrack
    sections, 9,038 km 1.067-meter narrow-gauge electrified, 2,012 km
    1.435-meter standard-gauge electrified (1987)
Highways:
    1,111,974 km total; 754,102 km paved, 357,872 km gravel, crushed stone, or
    unpaved; 4,400 km national expressways; 46,805 km national highways; 128,539
    km prefectural roads; and 930,230 km city, town, and village roads
Inland waterways:
    about 1,770 km; seagoing craft ply all coastal inland seas
Pipelines:
    crude oil 84 km; petroleum products 322 km; natural gas 1,800 km
Ports:
    Chiba, Muroran, Kitakyushu, Kobe, Tomakomai, Nagoya, Osaka, Tokyo,
    Yokkaichi, Yokohama, Kawasaki, Niigata, Fushiki-Toyama, Shimizu, Himeji,
    Wakayama-Shimozu, Shimonoseki, Tokuyama-Shimomatsu
Merchant marine:
    976 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 21,684,459 GRT/34,683,035 DWT;
    includes 10 passenger, 40 short-sea passenger, 3 passenger cargo, 89 cargo,
    44 container, 36 roll-on/roll-off cargo, 111 refrigerated cargo, 93 vehicle
    carrier, 227 petroleum tanker, 11 chemical tanker, 40 liquefied gas, 9
    combination ore/oil, 3 specialized tanker, 260 bulk; note - Japan also owns
    a large flag of convenience fleet, including up to 55% of the total number
    of ships under the Panamanian flag
Civil air:
    360 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    163 total, 158 usable; 131 with permanent-surface runways; 2 with runways
    over 3,659 m; 31 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 51 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    excellent domestic and international service; 64,000,000 telephones;
    broadcast stations - 318 AM, 58 FM, 12,350 TV (196 major - 1 kw or greater);
    satellite earth stations - 4 Pacific Ocean INTELSAT and 1 Indian Ocean
    INTELSAT; submarine cables to US (via Guam), Philippines, China, and Russia

:Japan Defense Forces

Branches:
    Japan Ground Self-Defense Force (Army), Japan Maritime Self-Defense Force
    (Navy), Japan Air Self-Defense Force (Air Force), Maritime Safety Agency
    (Coast Guard)
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 32,219,754; 27,767,280 fit for military service; 1,042,493
    reach military age (18) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $36.7 billion, 0.94% of GDP (FY92 est.)

:Jarvis Island Geography

Total area:
    4.5 km2
Land area:
    4.5 km2
Comparative area:
    about 7.5 times the size of the Mall in Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    8 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    12 nm
  Continental shelf:
    200 m (depth)
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    tropical; scant rainfall, constant wind, burning sun
Terrain:
    sandy, coral island surrounded by a narrow fringing reef
Natural resources:
    guano (deposits worked until late 1800s)
Land use:
    arable land 0%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 0%; forest and
    woodland 0%; other 100%
Environment:
    sparse bunch grass, prostrate vines, and low-growing shrubs; lacks fresh
    water; primarily a nesting, roosting, and foraging habitat for seabirds,
    shorebirds, and marine wildlife; feral cats
Note:
    2,090 km south of Honolulu in the South Pacific Ocean, just south of the
    Equator, about halfway between Hawaii and the Cook Islands

:Jarvis Island People

Population:
    uninhabited
Population:
  note:
    Millersville settlement on western side of island occasionally used as a
    weather station from 1935 until World War II, when it was abandoned;
    reoccupied in 1957 during the International Geophysical Year by scientists
    who left in 1958; public entry is by special-use permit only and generally
    restricted to scientists and educators

:Jarvis Island Government

Long-form name:
    none (territory of the US)
Type:
    unincorporated territory of the US administered by the Fish and Wildlife
    Service of the US Department of the Interior as part of the National
    Wildlife Refuge System
Capital:
    none; administered from Washington, DC

:Jarvis Island Economy

Overview:
    no economic activity

:Jarvis Island Communications

Ports:
    none; offshore anchorage only - one boat landing area in the middle of the
    west coast and another near the southwest corner of the island
Note:
    there is a day beacon near the middle of the west coast

:Jarvis Island Defense Forces

Note:
    defense is the responsibility of the US; visited annually by the US Coast
    Guard

:Jersey Geography

Total area:
    117 km2
Land area:
    117 km2
Comparative area:
    about 0.7 times the size of Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    70 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive fishing zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    3 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    temperate; mild winters and cool summers
Terrain:
    gently rolling plain with low, rugged hills along north coast
Natural resources:
    agricultural land
Land use:
    arable land NA%; permanent crops NA%; meadows and pastures NA%; forest and
    woodland NA%; other NA%; about 58% of land under cultivation
Environment:
    about 30% of population concentrated in Saint Helier
Note:
    largest and southernmost of Channel Islands; 27 km from France

:Jersey People

Population:
    85,026 (July 1992), growth rate 0.8% (1992)
Birth rate:
    12 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    10 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    6 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    6 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    72 years male, 78 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    1.3 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Channel Islander(s); adjective - Channel Islander
Ethnic divisions:
    UK and Norman-French descent
Religions:
    Anglican, Roman Catholic, Baptist, Congregational New Church, Methodist,
    Presbyterian
Languages:
    English and French (official), with the Norman-French dialect spoken in
    country districts
Literacy:
    NA% (male NA%, female NA%) but compulsory education age 5 to 16
Labor force:
    NA
Organized labor:
    none

:Jersey Government

Long-form name:
    Bailiwick of Jersey
Type:
    British crown dependency
Capital:
    Saint Helier
Administrative divisions:
    none (British crown dependency)
Independence:
    none (British crown dependency)
Constitution:
    unwritten; partly statutes, partly common law and practice
Legal system:
    English law and local statute
National holiday:
    Liberation Day, 9 May (1945)
Executive branch:
    British monarch, lieutenant governor, bailiff
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Assembly of the States
Judicial branch:
    Royal Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952)
  Head of Government:
    Lieutenant Governor and Commander in Chief Air Marshal Sir John SUTTON
    (since NA 1990); Bailiff Peter CRILL (since NA)
Political parties and leaders:
    none; all independents
Suffrage:
    universal adult at age NA
Elections:
  Assembly of the States:
    last held NA (next to be held NA); results - no percent of vote by party
    since all are independents; seats - (56 total, 52 elected) 52 independents
Member of:
    none
Diplomatic representation:
    none (British crown dependency)
Flag:
    white with the diagonal red cross of Saint Patrick (patron saint of Ireland)
    extending to the corners of the flag

:Jersey Economy

Overview:
    The economy is based largely on financial services, agriculture, and
    tourism. Potatoes, cauliflower, tomatoes, and especially flowers are
    important export crops, shipped mostly to the UK. The Jersey breed of dairy
    cattle is known worldwide and represents an important export earner. Milk
    products go to the UK and other EC countries. In 1986 the finance sector
    overtook tourism as the main contributor to GDP, accounting for 40% of the
    island's output. In recent years the government has encouraged light
    industry to locate in Jersey, with the result that an electronics industry
    has developed alongside the traditional manufacturing of knitwear. All raw
    material and energy requirements are imported, as well as a large share of
    Jersey's food needs.
GDP:
    $NA, per capita $NA; real growth rate 8% (1987 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    8% (1988 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    NA%
Budget:
    revenues $308.0 million; expenditures $284.4 million, including capital
    expenditures of NA (1985)
Exports:
    $NA
  commodities:
    light industrial and electrical goods, foodstuffs, textiles
  partners:
    UK
Imports:
    $NA
  commodities:
    machinery and transport equipment, manufactured goods, foodstuffs, mineral
    fuels, chemicals
  partners:
    UK
External debt:
    $NA
Industrial production:
    growth rate NA%
Electricity:
    50,000 kW standby capacity (1990); power supplied by France
Industries:
    tourism, banking and finance, dairy
Agriculture:
    potatoes, cauliflowers, tomatoes; dairy and cattle farming
Economic aid:
    none
Currency:
    Jersey pound (plural - pounds); 1 Jersey pound (#J) = 100 pence
Exchange rates:
    Jersey pounds (#J) per US$1 - 0.5799 (March 1992), 0.5652 (1991), 0.5603
    (1990), 0.6099 (1989), 0.5614 (1988), 0.6102 (1987), 0.6817 (1986); the
    Jersey pound is at par with the British pound
Fiscal year:
    1 April - 31 March

:Jersey Communications

Ports:
    Saint Helier, Gorey, Saint Aubin
Airports:
    1 with permanent-surface runway 1,220-2,439 m (Saint Peter)
Telecommunications:
    63,700 telephones; broadcast stations - 1 AM, no FM, 1 TV; 3 submarine
    cables

:Jersey Defense Forces

Note:
    defense is the responsibility of the UK

:Johnston Atoll Geography

Total area:
    2.8 km2
Land area:
    2.8 km2
Comparative area:
    about 4.7 times the size of the Mall in Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    10 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    12 nm
  Continental shelf:
    200 m (depth)
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    tropical, but generally dry; consistent northeast trade winds with little
    seasonal temperature variation
Terrain:
    mostly flat with a maximum elevation of 4 meters
Natural resources:
    guano (deposits worked until about 1890)
Land use:
    arable land 0%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 0%; forest and
    woodland 0%; other 100%
Environment:
    some low-growing vegetation
Note:
    strategic location 717 nautical miles west-southwest of Honolulu in the
    North Pacific Ocean, about one-third of the way between Hawaii and the
    Marshall Islands; Johnston Island and Sand Island are natural islands; North
    Island (Akau) and East Island (Hikina) are manmade islands formed from coral
    dredging; closed to the public; former nuclear weapons test site; site of
    Johnston Atoll Chemical Agent Disposal System (JACADS)

:Johnston Atoll People

Population:
    1,375 (December 1991); all US government personnel and contractors

:Johnston Atoll Government

Long-form name:
    none (territory of the US)
Type:
    unincorporated territory of the US administered by the US Defense Nuclear
    Agency (DNA) and managed cooperatively by DNA and the Fish and Wildlife
    Service of the US Department of the Interior as part of the National
    Wildlife Refuge system
Capital:

none; administered from Washington, DC
Diplomatic representation:
    none (territory of the US)
Flag:
    the flag of the US is used

:Johnston Atoll Economy

Overview:
    Economic activity is limited to providing services to US military personnel
    and contractors located on the island. All food and manufactured goods must
    be imported.
Electricity:
    supplied by the management and operations contractor

:Johnston Atoll Communications

Ports:
    Johnston Island
Airports:
    1 with permanent-surface runways 2,743 m
Telecommunications:
    excellent system including 60-channel submarine cable, Autodin/SRT terminal,
    digital telephone switch, Military Affiliated Radio System (MARS station),
    commercial satellite television system, and UHF/VHF air-ground radio, marine
    VHF/FM Channel 16
Note:
    US Coast Guard operates a LORAN transmitting station (estimated closing date
    for LORAN is December 1992)

:Johnston Atoll Defense Forces

Note:
    defense is the responsibility of the US

:Jordan Geography

Total area:
    91,880 km2
Land area:
    91,540 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than Indiana
Land boundaries:
    1,586 km; Iraq 134 km, Israel 238 km, Saudi Arabia 742 km, Syria 375 km,
    West Bank 97 km
Coastline:
    26 km
Maritime claims:
  Territorial sea:
    3 nm
Disputes:
    differences with Israel over the location of the 1949 Armistice Line that
    separates the two countries
Climate:
    mostly arid desert; rainy season in west (November to April)
Terrain:
    mostly desert plateau in east, highland area in west; Great Rift Valley
    separates East and West Banks of the Jordan River
Natural resources:
    phosphates, potash, shale oil
Land use:
    arable land 4%; permanent crops 0.5%; meadows and pastures 1%; forest and
    woodland 0.5%; other 94%; includes irrigated 0.5%
Environment:
    lack of natural water resources; deforestation; overgrazing; soil erosion;
    desertification
Note:
    The war between Israel and the Arab states in June 1967 ended with Israel in
    control of the West Bank. As stated in the 1978 Camp David accords and
    reaffirmed by President Bush's post - Gulf crisis peace initiative, the
    final status of the West Bank and Gaza Strip, their relationship with their
    neighbors, and a peace treaty between Israel and Jordan are to be negotiated
    among the concerned parties. The Camp David accords also specify that these
    negotiations will resolve the location of the respective boundaries. Pending
    the completion of this process, it is US policy that the final status of the
    West Bank and Gaza Strip has yet to be determined.

:Jordan People

Population:
    3,557,304 (July 1992), growth rate 4.1% (1992); Palestinians now constitute
    roughly two-thirds of the population; most are Jordanian citizens
Birth rate:
    45 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    5 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    1 migrant/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    38 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    70 years male, 73 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    7.0 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Jordanian(s); adjective - Jordanian
Ethnic divisions:
    Arab 98%, Circassian 1%, Armenian 1%
Religions:
    Sunni Muslim 92%, Christian 8%
Languages:
    Arabic (official); English widely understood among upper and middle classes
Literacy:
    80% (male 89%, female 70%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    572,000 (1988); agriculture 20%, manufacturing and mining 20% (1987 est.)
Organized labor:
    about 10% of labor force

:Jordan Government

Long-form name:
    Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Type:
    constitutional monarchy
Capital:
    Amman
Administrative divisions:
    8 governorates (muhafazat, singular - muhafazah); Al Balqa', Al Karak, Al
    Mafraq, `Amman, At Tafilah, Az Zarqa', Irbid, Ma`an
Independence:
    25 May 1946 (from League of Nations mandate under British administration;
    formerly Transjordan)
Constitution:
    8 January 1952
Legal system:
    based on Islamic law and French codes; judicial review of legislative acts
    in a specially provided High Tribunal; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
    jurisdiction
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 25 May (1946)
Executive branch:
    monarch, prime minister, deputy prime minister, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    bicameral National Assembly (Majlis al-`Umma) consists of an upper house or
    House of Notables (Majlis al-A`ayan) and a lower house or House of
    Representatives (Majlis al-Nuwaab); note - the House of Representatives has
    been convened and dissolved by the King several times since 1974 and in
    November 1989 the first parliamentary elections in 22 years were held
Judicial branch:
    Court of Cassation
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    King HUSSEIN Ibn Talal Al Hashemi (since 11 August 1952)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Zayd bin SHAKIR (since 21 November 1991)
Political parties and leaders:
    approximately 24 parties have been formed since the National Charter, but
    the number fluctuates; after the 1989 parliamentary elections, King Hussein
    promised to allow the formation of political parties; a national charter
    that sets forth the ground rules for democracy in Jordan - including the
    creation of political parties - was approved in principle by the special
    National Conference on 9 June 1991, but its specific provisions have yet to
    be passed by National Assembly
Suffrage:
    universal at age 20
Elections:
  House of Representatives:
    last held 8 November 1989 (next to be held November 1993); results - percent
    of vote by party NA; seats - (80 total) Muslim Brotherhood (fundamentalist)
    22, Independent Islamic bloc (generally traditionalist) 6, Democratic bloc
    (mostly leftist) 9, Constitutionalist bloc (traditionalist) 17, Nationalist
    bloc (traditionalist) 16, independent 10
Member of:
    ABEDA, ACC, AFESD, AL, AMF, CAEU, CCC, ESCWA, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
    ICC, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, ISO
    (correspondent), ITU, LORCS, NAM, OIC, UN, UNAVEM, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO,
    UNRWA, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

:Jordan Government

Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Hussein A. HAMMAMI; Chancery at 3504 International Drive NW,
    Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 966-2664
  US:
    Ambassador Roger Gram HARRISON; Embassy on Jebel Amman, Amman (mailing
    address is P. O. Box 354, Amman, or APO AE 09892); telephone [962] (6)
    644-371
Flag:
    three equal horizontal bands of black (top), white, and green with a red
    isosceles triangle based on the hoist side bearing a small white
    seven-pointed star; the seven points on the star represent the seven
    fundamental laws of the Koran

:Jordan Economy

Overview:
    Jordan benefited from increased Arab aid during the oil boom of the late
    1970s and early 1980s, when its annual GNP growth averaged more than 10%. In
    the remainder of the 1980s, however, reductions in both Arab aid and worker
    remittances slowed economic growth to an average of roughly 2% per year.
    Imports - mainly oil, capital goods, consumer durables, and food - have been
    outstripping exports, with the difference covered by aid, remittances, and
    borrowing. In mid-1989, the Jordanian Government began debt-rescheduling
    negotiations and agreed to implement an IMF program designed to gradually
    reduce the budget deficit and implement badly needed structural reforms. The
    Persian Gulf crisis that began in August 1990, however, aggravated Jordan's
    already serious economic problems, forcing the government to shelve the IMF
    program, stop most debt payments, and suspend rescheduling negotiations. Aid
    from Gulf Arab states and worker remittances have plunged, and refugees have
    flooded the country, straining government resources. Economic recovery is
    unlikely without substantial foreign aid, debt relief, and economic reform.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $3.6 billion, per capita $1,100; real growth rate
    3% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    9% (1991 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    40% (1991 est.)
Budget:
    revenues $1.7 billion; expenditures $1.9 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $NA (1992)
Exports:
    $1.0 billion (f.o.b., 1991 est.)
  commodities:
    phosphates, fertilizers, potash, agricultural products, manufactures
  partners:
    India, Iraq, Saudi Arabia, Indonesia, Ethiopia, UAE, China
Imports:
    $2.3 billion (c.i.f., 1991 est.)
  commodities:
    crude oil, machinery, transport equipment, food, live animals, manufactured
    goods
  partners:
    EC, US, Iraq, Saudi Arabia, Japan, Turkey
External debt:
    $9 billion (December 1991 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 1% (1991 est.); accounts for 20% of GDP
Electricity:
    1,025,000 kW capacity; 3,900 million kWh produced, 1,150 kWh per capita
    (1991)
Industries:
    phosphate mining, petroleum refining, cement, potash, light manufacturing
Agriculture:
    accounts for about 7% of GDP; principal products are wheat, barley, citrus
    fruit, tomatoes, melons, olives; livestock - sheep, goats, poultry; large
    net importer of food
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $1.7 billion; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $1.5 billion; OPEC
    bilateral aid (1979-89), $9.5 billion; Communist countries (1970-89), $44
    million
Currency:
    Jordanian dinar (plural - dinars); 1 Jordanian dinar (JD) = 1,000 fils

:Jordan Economy

Exchange rates:
    Jordanian dinars (JD) per US$1 - 0.6861 (March 1992), 0.6807 1991), 0.6636
    (1990), 0.5704 (1989), 0.3709 (1988), 0.3387 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Jordan Communications

Railroads:
    619 km 1.050-meter gauge, single track
Highways:
    7,500 km; 5,500 km asphalt, 2,000 km gravel and crushed stone
Pipelines:
    crude oil 209 km
Ports:
    Al `Aqabah
Merchant marine:
    2 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 60,378 GRT/113,557 DWT; includes 1
    cargo and 1 petroleum tanker
Civil air:
    23 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    19 total, 15 usable; 14 with permanent-surface runways; 1 with runways over
    3,659 m; 13 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; none with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    adequate telephone system of microwave, cable, and radio links; 81,500
    telephones; broadcast stations - 5 AM, 7 FM, 8 TV; satellite earth stations
    - 1 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT, 1 Indian Ocean INTELSAT, 1 ARABSAT, 1 domestic
    TV receive-only; coaxial cable and microwave to Iraq, Saudi Arabia, and
    Syria; microwave link to Lebanon is inactive; participates in a microwave
    network linking Syria, Jordan, Egypt, Libya, Tunisia, Algeria, and Morocco

:Jordan Defense Forces

Branches:
    Jordan Arab Army, Royal Jordanian Air Force, Royal Jordanian Navy, Public
    Security Force
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 808,725; 576,934 fit for military service; 39,310 reach
    military age (18) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $404 million, 9.5% of GDP (1990)

:Juan de Nova Island Geography

Total area:
    4.4 km2
Land area:
    4.4 km2
Comparative area:
    about 7.5 times the size of the Mall in Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    24.1 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    12 nm
  Continental shelf:
    200 m (depth) or to depth of exploitation
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    claimed by Madagascar
Climate:
    tropical
Terrain:
    undetermined
Natural resources:
    guano deposits and other fertilizers
Land use:
    arable land 0%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 0%; forest and
    woodland 90%; other 10%
Environment:
    subject to periodic cyclones; wildlife sanctuary
Note:
    located in the central Mozambique Channel about halfway between Africa and
    Madagascar

:Juan de Nova Island People

Population:
    uninhabited

:Juan de Nova Island Government

Long-form name:
    none
Type:
    French possession administered by Commissioner of the Republic Jacques
    DEWATRE, resident in Reunion
Capital:
    none; administered by France from Reunion

:Juan de Nova Island Economy

Overview:
    no economic activity

:Juan de Nova Island Communications

Railroads:
    short line going to a jetty
Ports:
    none; offshore anchorage only
Airports:
    1 with non-permanent-surface runways 1,220-2,439 m

:Juan de Nova Island Defense Forces

Note:
    defense is the responsibility of France

:Kazakhstan Geography

Total area:
    2,717,300 km2
Land area:
    2,669,800 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly less than four times the size of Texas
Land boundaries:
    12,012 km; China 1,533 km, Kyrgyzstan 1,051 km, Russia 6,846 km,
    Turkmenistan 379 km, Uzbekistan 2,203 km
Coastline:
    0 km
  note:
    Kazakhstan does border the Aral Sea (1,015 km) and the Caspian Sea (1,894
    km)
Maritime claims:
    none - landlocked
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    dry continental, about half is desert
Terrain:
    extends from the Volga to the Altai mountains and from the plains in western
    Siberia to oasis and desert in Central Asia
Natural resources:
    petroleum, coal, iron, manganese, chrome, nickel, cobalt, copper,
    molybdenum, lead, zinc, bauxite, gold, uranium, iron
Land use:
    NA% arable land; NA% permanent crops; NA% meadows and pastures; NA% forest
    and woodland; NA% other; includes NA% irrigated
Environment:
    drying up of Aral Sea is causing increased concentrations of chemical
    pesticides and natural salts; industrial pollution

:Kazakhstan People

Population:
    17,103,927 (July 1992), growth rate 1.0% (1992)
Birth rate:
    23 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    8 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    -6.1 migrants/1,000 population (1991)
Infant mortality rate:
    25.9 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    63 years male, 72 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    2.9 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Kazakh(s); adjective - Kazakhstani
Ethnic divisions:
    Kazakh (Qazaq) 40%, Russian 38%, other Slavs 7%, Germans 6%, other 9%
Religions:
    Muslim 47% Russian Orthodox NA%, Lutheran NA%
Languages:
    Kazakh (Qazaq; official language), Russian
Literacy:
    NA% (male NA%, female NA%) age 15 and over can read and write
Labor force:
    8,267,000 (1989)
Organized labor:
    official trade unions, independent coal miners' union

:Kazakhstan Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Kazakhstan
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Alma-Ata (Almaty)
Administrative divisions:
    19 oblasts (oblastey, singular - oblast'); Aktyubinsk, Alma-Ata, Atyrau,
    Chimkent, Dzhambul, Dzhezkazgan, Karaganda, Kokchetav, Kustanay, Kzyl-Orda,
    Mangistauz (Aqtau), Pavlodar, Semipalatinsk, Severo-Kazakhstan
    (Petropavlovsk), Taldy-Kurgan, Tselinograd, Turgay (Arkalyk), Ural'sk,
    Vostochno-Kazakhstan (Ust'-Kamenogorsk); note - an oblast has the same name
    as its administrative center (exceptions have the administrative center name
    following in parentheses)
Independence:
    16 December 1991; from the Soviet Union (formerly the Kazakh Soviet
    Socialist Republic)
Constitution:
    new postindependence constitution under preparation
Legal system:
    NA
National holiday:
    NA
Executive branch:
    president with presidential appointed cabinet of ministers
Legislative branch:
    Supreme Soviet
Judicial branch:
    NA
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Nursultan A. NAZARBAYEV (since April 1990), Vice President Yerik
    ASANBAYEV (since 1 December 1991)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Sergey TERESHCHENKO (since 14 October 1991), Deputy Prime
    Minister Davlat SEMBAYEV (since November 1990)
Political parties and leaders:
    Peoples Forum Party, Olzhas SULEIMENOV and Mukhtar SHAKHANOV, co-chairmen;
    Socialist Party (former Communist Party), Anuar ALIJANOV, chairman;
    ZHOLTOKSAN, Hasan KOJAKHETOV, chairmen; AZAT Party, Sabitkazi AKETAEV,
    chairman
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  President:
    last held 1 December 1991 (next to be held NA); percent of vote by party NA;
    seats - (NA total) percent of seats by party NA
Communists:
    party disbanded 6 September 1992
Member of:
    CIS, CSCE, IMF, NACC, OIC, UN, UNCTAD
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador NA; Chancery at NA NW, Washington, DC 200__; telephone NA; there
    are NA Consulates General
  US:
    Ambassador-designate William Courtney; Embassy at Hotel Kazakhstan,
    Alma-Ata, (mailing address is APO AE 09862); telephone 8-011-7-3272-61-90-56
Flag:
    no national flag yet adopted

:Kazakhstan Economy

Overview:
    The second-largest in area of the 15 former Soviet republics, Kazakhstan has
    vast oil, coal, and agricultural resources. Kazakhstan is highly dependent
    on trade with Russia, exchanging its natural resources for finished consumer
    and industrial goods. Kazakhstan now finds itself with serious pollution
    problems, backward technology, and little experience in foreign markets. The
    government in 1991 pushed privatization of the economy at a faster pace than
    Russia's program. The ongoing transitional period - marked by sharp
    inflation in wages and prices, lower output, lost jobs, and disruption of
    time-honored channels of supply - has brought considerable social unrest.
    Kazakhstan lacks the funds, technology, and managerial skills for a quick
    recovery of output. US firms have been enlisted to increase oil output but
    face formidable obstacles; for example, oil can now reach Western markets
    only through pipelines that run across independent (and sometimes
    unfriendly) former Soviet republics. Finally, the end of monolithic
    Communist control has brought ethnic grievances into the open. The 6 million
    Russians in the republic, formerly the favored class, now face the hostility
    of a society dominated by Muslims. Ethnic rivalry will be just one of the
    formidable obstacles to the creation of a productive, technologically
    advancing society.
GDP:
    purchasing power equivalent - $NA; per capita NA; real growth rate - 7%
    (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    83% (1991)
Unemployment rate:
    NA%
Budget:
    revenues $NA million; expenditures $NA million, including capital
    expenditures of $1.76 billion (1991)
Exports:
    $4.2 billion (f.o.b., 1991)
  commodities:
    oil, ferrous and nonferrous metals, chemicals, grain, wool, meat (1991)
  partners:
    Russia, Ukraine, Uzbekistan
Imports:
    $NA million (c.i.f., 1990)
  commodities:
    machinery and parts, industrial materials
  partners:
    Russia and other former Soviet republics
External debt:
    $2.6 billion (1991 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 0.7% (1991)
Electricity:
    17,900,000 kW capacity; 79,100 million kWh produced, 4,735 kWh per capita
    (1991)
Industries:
    extractive industries (oil, coal, iron ore, manganese, chromite, lead, zinc,
    copper, titanium, bauxite, gold, silver, phosphates, sulfur) iron and steel,
    nonferrous metal, tractors and other agricultural machinery, electric
    motors, construction materials
Agriculture:
    employs 30% of the labor force; grain, mostly spring wheat; meat, cotton,
    wool

:Kazakhstan Economy

Illicit drugs:
    illicit producers of cannabis and opium; mostly for domestic consumption;
    status of government eradication programs unknown; used as transshipment
    points for illicit drugs to Western Europe
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-87), $NA billion; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-86), $NA million;
    Communist countries (1971-86), $NA million
Currency:
    as of May 1992, retaining ruble as currency
Exchange rates:
    NA
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Kazakhstan Communications

Railroads:
    14,460 km (all 1.520-meter gauge); does not include industrial lines (1990)
Highways:
    189,000 km total (1990); 188,900 km hard surfaced (paved or gravel), 80,900
    km earth
Inland waterways:
    NA km perennially navigable
Pipelines:
    crude oil NA km, refined products NA km, natural gas NA
Ports:
    none - landlocked; inland - Guryev
Civil air:
    NA major transport aircraft
Airports:
    NA
Telecommunications:
    telephone service is poor, with only about 6 telephones for each 100
    persons; of the approximately 1 million telephones, Alma-Ata has 184,000;
    international traffic with other former USSR republics and China carried by
    landline and microwave, and with other countries by satellite and through
    the Moscow international gateway switch; satellite earth stations - INTELSAT
    and Orbita

:Kazakhstan Defense Forces

Branches:
    Republic Security Forces (internal and border troops), National Guard; CIS
    Forces (Ground, Air, Air Defense, and Strategic Rocket)
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, NA fit for military service; NA reach military age (18)
    annually
Defense expenditures:
    $NA, NA% of GDP

:Kenya Geography

Total area:
    582,650 km2
Land area:
    569,250 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly more than twice the size of Nevada
Land boundaries:
    3,477 km; Ethiopia 861 km, Somalia 682 km, Sudan 232 km, Tanzania 769 km,
    Uganda 933 km
Coastline:
    536 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    administrative boundary with Sudan does not coincide with international
    boundary; possible claim by Somalia based on unification of ethnic Somalis
Climate:
    varies from tropical along coast to arid in interior
Terrain:
    low plains rise to central highlands bisected by Great Rift Valley; fertile
    plateau in west
Natural resources:
    gold, limestone, soda ash, salt barytes, rubies, fluorspar, garnets,
    wildlife
Land use:
    arable land 3%; permanent crops 1%; meadows and pastures 7%; forest and
    woodland 4%; other 85%; includes irrigated NEGL%
Environment:
    unique physiography supports abundant and varied wildlife of scientific and
    economic value; deforestation; soil erosion; desertification; glaciers on
    Mt. Kenya
Note:
    the Kenyan Highlands comprise one of the most successful agricultural
    production regions in Africa

:Kenya People

Population:
    26,164,473 (July 1992), growth rate 3.6% (1992)
Birth rate:
    44 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    8 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    68 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    60 years male, 64 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    6.2 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Kenyan(s); adjective - Kenyan
Ethnic divisions:
    Kikuyu 21%, Luhya 14%, Luo 13%, Kalenjin 11%, Kamba 11%, Kisii 6%, Meru 6%,
    Asian, European, and Arab 1%
Religions:
    Protestant 38%, Roman Catholic 28%, indigenous beliefs 26%, Muslim 6%
Languages:
    English and Swahili (official); numerous indigenous languages
Literacy:
    69% (male 80%, female 58%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    9.2 million (includes unemployed); the total employed is 1.37 million (14.8%
    of the labor force); services 54.8%, industry 26.2%, agriculture 19.0%
    (1989)
Organized labor:
    390,000 (est.)

:Kenya Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Kenya
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Nairobi
Administrative divisions:
    7 provinces and 1 area*; Central, Coast, Eastern, Nairobi Area*, North
    Eastern, Nyanza, Rift Valley, Western
Independence:
    12 December 1963 (from UK; formerly British East Africa)
Constitution:
    12 December 1963, amended as a republic 1964; reissued with amendments 1979,
    1983, 1986, 1988, and 1991
Legal system:
    based on English common law, tribal law, and Islamic law; judicial review in
    High Court; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with reservations;
    constitutional amendment of 1982 making Kenya a de jure one-party state
    repealed in 1991
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 12 December (1963)
Executive branch:
    president, vice president, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    unicameral National Assembly (Bunge)
Judicial branch:
    Court of Appeal, High Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State and Head of Government:
    President Daniel Teroitich arap MOI (since 14 October 1978); Vice President
    George SAITOTI (since 10 May 1989)
Political parties and leaders:
    ruling party is Kenya African National Union (KANU), Daniel T. arap MOI,
    president; opposition parties include Forum for the Restoration of Democracy
    (FORD), Oginga ODINJA; Democratic Party of Kenya (DP), KIBAKI; note - some
    dozen other opposition parties
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  President:
    last held on 21 March 1988 (next to be held before March 1993); results -
    President Daniel T. arap MOI was reelected
  National Assembly:
    last held on 21 March 1988 (next to be held before March 1993); will be
    first multiparty election since repeal of one-party state law
Other political or pressure groups:
    labor unions; exile opposition - Mwakenya and other groups
Member of:
    ACP, AfDB, C, CCC, EADB, ECA, FAO, G-77, GATT, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, IDA, IFAD,
    IFC, IGADD, ILO, IMF, IMO, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, LORCS,
    NAM, OAU, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNIIMOG, UPU, WCL, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Denis Daudi AFANDE; Chancery at 2249 R Street NW, Washington, DC
    20008; telephone (202) 387-6101; there are Kenyan Consulates General in Los
    Angeles and New York

:Kenya Government

  US:
    Ambassador Smith HEMPSTONE, Jr.; Embassy at the corner of Moi Avenue and
    Haile Selassie Avenue, Nairobi (mailing address is P. O. Box 30137, Nairobi
    or APO AE 09831); telephone [254] (2) 334141; FAX [254] (2) 340838; there is
    a US Consulate in Mombasa
Flag:
    three equal horizontal bands of black (top), red, and green; the red band is
    edged in white; a large warrior's shield covering crossed spears is
    superimposed at the center

:Kenya Economy

Overview:
    Kenya's 3.6% annual population growth rate - one of the highest in the world
    - presents a serious problem for the country's economy. In the meantime, GDP
    growth in the near term has kept slightly ahead of population - annually
    averaging 4.9% in the 1986-90 period. Undependable weather conditions and a
    shortage of arable land hamper long-term growth in agriculture, the leading
    economic sector. In 1991, deficient rainfall, stagnant export volume, and
    sagging export prices held economic growth below the all-important
    population growth figure.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $9.7 billion, per capita $385 (1989 est.); real
    growth rate 2.3% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    14.3% (1991 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    NA%, but there is a high level of unemployment and underemployment
Budget:
    revenues $2.4 billion; expenditures $2.8 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $0.74 billion (FY90)
Exports:
    $1.0 billion (f.o.b., 1991 est.)
  commodities:
    tea 25%, coffee 21%, petroleum products 7% (1989)
  partners:
    EC 44%, Africa 25%, Asia 5%, US 5%, Middle East 4% (1988)
Imports:
    $1.9 billion (f.o.b., 1991 est.)
  commodities:
    machinery and transportation equipment 29%, petroleum and petroleum products
    15%, iron and steel 7%, raw materials, food and consumer goods (1989)
  partners:
    EC 45%, Asia 11%, Middle East 12%, US 5% (1988)
External debt:
    $6.0 billion (December 1991 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 5.4% (1989 est.); accounts for 17% of GDP
Electricity:
    730,000 kW capacity; 2,700 million kWh produced, 110 kWh per capita (1990)
Industries:
    small-scale consumer goods (plastic, furniture, batteries, textiles, soap,
    cigarettes, flour), agricultural processing, oil refining, cement, tourism
Agriculture:
    most important sector, accounting for 29% of GDP, about 19% of the work
    force, and over 50% of exports; cash crops - coffee, tea, sisal, pineapple;
    food products - corn, wheat, sugarcane, fruit, vegetables, dairy products;
    food output not keeping pace with population growth
Illicit drugs:
    illicit producer of cannabis used mostly for domestic consumption;
    widespread cultivation of cannabis and qat on small plots; transit country
    for heroin and methaqualone en route from Southwest Asia to West Africa,
    Western Europe, and the US
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $839 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $7,490 million; OPEC
    bilateral aid (1979-89), $74 million; Communist countries (1970-89), $83
    million
Currency:
    Kenyan shilling (plural - shillings); 1 Kenyan shilling (KSh) = 100 cents

:Kenya Economy

Exchange rates:
    Kenyan shillings (KSh) per US$1 - 28.466 (January 1992), 27.508 (1991),
    22.915 (1990), 20.572 (1989), 17.747 (1988), 16.454 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    1 July - 30 June

:Kenya Communications

Railroads:
    2,040 km 1.000-meter gauge
Highways:
    64,590 km total; 7,000 km paved, 4,150 km gravel, remainder improved earth
Inland waterways:
    part of Lake Victoria system is within boundaries of Kenya; principal inland
    port is at Kisumu
Pipelines:
    petroleum products 483 km
Ports:
    Mombasa, Lamu
Merchant marine:
    1 petroleum tanker ship (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 7,727 GRT/5,558 DWT
Civil air:
    19 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    249 total, 214 usable; 21 with permanent-surface runways; 2 with runways
    over 3,659 m; 2 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 46 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    in top group of African systems; consists primarily of radio relay links;
    over 260,000 telephones; broadcast stations - 16 AM; 4 FM, 6 TV; satellite
    earth stations - 1 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT and 1 Indian Ocean INTELSAT

:Kenya Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Navy, Air Force, paramilitary General Service Unit of the Police
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 5,688,543; 3,513,611 fit for military service; no conscription
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $100 million, 1% of GDP (1989 est.)

:Kingman Reef Geography

Total area:
    1 km2
Land area:
    1 km2
Comparative area:
    about 1.7 times the size of the Mall in Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    3 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    12 nm
  Continental shelf:
    200 m (depth)
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    tropical, but moderated by prevailing winds
Terrain:
    low and nearly level with a maximum elevation of about 1 meter
Natural resources:
    none
Land use:
    arable land 0%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 0%; forest and
    woodland 0%; other 100%
Environment:
    barren coral atoll with deep interior lagoon; wet or awash most of the time
Note:
    located 1,600 km south-southwest of Honolulu in the North Pacific Ocean,
    about halfway between Hawaii and American Samoa; maximum elevation of about
    1 meter makes this a navigational hazard; closed to the public

:Kingman Reef People

Population:
    uninhabited

:Kingman Reef Government

Long-form name:
    none
Type:
    unincorporated territory of the US administered by the US Navy
Capital:
    none; administered from Washington, DC

:Kingman Reef Economy

Overview:
    no economic activity

:Kingman Reef Communications

Ports:
    none; offshore anchorage only
Airports:
    lagoon was used as a halfway station between Hawaii and American Samoa by
    Pan American Airways for flying boats in 1937 and 1938

:Kingman Reef Defense Forces

Note:
    defense is the responsibility of the US

:Kiribati Geography

Total area:
    717 km2
Land area:
    717 km2; includes three island groups - Gilbert Islands, Line Islands,
    Phoenix Islands
Comparative area:
    slightly more than four times the size of Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    1,143 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    tropical; marine, hot and humid, moderated by trade winds
Terrain:
    mostly low-lying coral atolls surrounded by extensive reefs
Natural resources:
    phosphate (production discontinued in 1979)
Land use:
    arable land NEGL%; permanent crops 51%; meadows and pastures 0%; forest and
    woodland 3%; other 46%
Environment:
    typhoons can occur any time, but usually November to March; 20 of the 33
    islands are inhabited
Note:
    Banaba (Ocean Island) in Kiribati is one of the three great phosphate rock
    islands in the Pacific Ocean - the others are Makatea in French Polynesia
    and Nauru

:Kiribati People

Population:
    74,788 (July 1992), growth rate 2.1% (1992)
Birth rate:
    33 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    12 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    1 migrant/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    99 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    52 years male, 56 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    3.9 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - I-Kiribati (singular and plural); adjective - I-Kiribati
Ethnic divisions:
    Micronesian
Religions:
    Roman Catholic 52.6%, Protestant (Congregational) 40.9%, Seventh-Day
    Adventist, Baha'i, Church of God, Mormon 6% (1985)
Languages:
    English (official), Gilbertese
Literacy:
    NA% (male NA%, female NA%)
Labor force:
    7,870 economically active, not including subsistence farmers (1985 est.)
Organized labor:
    Kiribati Trades Union Congress - 2,500 members

:Kiribati Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Kiribati; note - pronounced Kiribas
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Tarawa
Administrative divisions:
    3 units; Gilbert Islands, Line Islands, Phoenix Islands; note - a new
    administrative structure of 6 districts (Banaba, Central Gilberts, Line
    Islands, Northern Gilberts, Southern Gilberts, Tarawa) may have been changed
    to 21 island councils (one for each of the inhabited islands) named Abaiang,
    Abemama, Aranuka, Arorae, Banaba, Beru, Butaritari, Canton, Kiritimati,
    Kuria, Maiana, Makin, Marakei, Nikunau, Nonouti, Onotoa, Tabiteuea,
    Tabuaeran, Tamana, Tarawa, Teraina
Independence:
    12 July 1979 (from UK; formerly Gilbert Islands)
Constitution:
    12 July 1979
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 12 July (1979)
Executive branch:
    president (Beretitenti), vice president (Kauoman-ni-Beretitenti), Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    unicameral House of Assembly (Maneaba Ni Maungatabu)
Judicial branch:
    Court of Appeal, High Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State and Head of Government:
    President Teatao TEANNAKI (since 8 July 1991); Vice President Taomati IUTA
    (since 8 July 1991)
Political parties and leaders:
    National Progressive Party, Teatao TEANNAKI; Christian Democratic Party,
    Teburoro TITO; New Movement Party, leader NA; Liberal Party, Tewareka
    TENTOA; note - there is no tradition of formally organized political parties
    in Kiribati; they more closely resemble factions or interest groups because
    they have no party headquarters, formal platforms, or party structures
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  President:
    last held on 8 July 1991 (next to be held May 1995); results - Teatao
    TEANNAKI 52%, Roniti TEIWAKI 28%
  House of Assembly:
    last held on 8 May 1991 (next to be held May 1995); results - percent of
    vote by party NA; seats - (40 total; 39 elected) percent of seats by party
    NA
Member of:
    ACP, AsDB, C, ESCAP (associate), IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, IDA, IFC, IMF, INTERPOL,
    ITU, SPC, SPF, UNESCO, UPU, WHO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador (vacant) lives in Tarawa (Kiribati)
  US:
    the ambassador to Fiji is accredited to Kiribati
Flag:
    the upper half is red with a yellow frigate bird flying over a yellow rising
    sun, and the lower half is blue with three horizontal wavy white stripes to
    represent the ocean

:Kiribati Economy

Overview:
    The country has few national resources. Commercially viable phosphate
    deposits were exhausted at the time of independence in 1979. Copra and fish
    now represent the bulk of production and exports. The economy has fluctuated
    widely in recent years. Real GDP declined about 8% in 1987, as the fish
    catch fell sharply to only one-fourth the level of 1986 and copra production
    was hampered by repeated rains. Output rebounded strongly in 1988, with real
    GDP growing by 17%. The upturn in economic growth came from an increase in
    copra production and a good fish catch. Following the strong surge in output
    in 1988, GNP increased 1% in both 1989 and 1990.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $36.8 million, per capita $525; real growth rate
    1.0% (1990 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    4.0% (1990 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    2% (1985); considerable underemployment
Budget:
    revenues $29.9 million; expenditures $16.3 million, including capital
    expenditures of $14.0 million (1990 est.)
Exports:
    $5.8 million (f.o.b., 1990 est.)
  commodities:
    fish 55%, copra 42%
  partners:
    EC 20%, Marshall Islands 12%, US 8%, American Samoa 4% (1985)
Imports:
    $26.7 million (c.i.f., 1990 est.)
  commodities:
    foodstuffs, fuel, transportation equipment
  partners:
    Australia 39%, Japan 21%, NZ 6%, UK 6%, US 3% (1985)
External debt:
    $2.0 million (December 1989 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 0% (1988 est.); accounts for less than 4% of GDP
Electricity:
    5,000 kW capacity; 13 million kWh produced, 190 kWh per capita (1990)
Industries:
    fishing, handicrafts
Agriculture:
    accounts for 30% of GDP (including fishing); copra and fish contribute about
    95% to exports; subsistence farming predominates; food crops - taro,
    breadfruit, sweet potatoes, vegetables; not self-sufficient in food
Economic aid:
    Western (non-US) countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89),
    $273 million
Currency:
    Australian dollar (plural - dollars); 1 Australian dollar ($A) = 100 cents
Exchange rates:
    Australian dollars ($A) per US$1 - 1.3177 (March 1992), 1.2835 (1991),
    1.2799 (1990), 1.2618 (1989), 1.2752 (1988), 1.4267 (1987), 1.4905 (1986)
Fiscal year:
    NA

:Kiribati Communications

Highways:
    640 km of motorable roads
Inland waterways:
    small network of canals, totaling 5 km, in Line Islands
Ports:
    Banaba and Betio (Tarawa)
Civil air:
    2 Trislanders; no major transport aircraft
Airports:
    21 total; 20 usable; 4 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 2,439 m; 5 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    1,400 telephones; broadcast stations - 1 AM, no FM, no TV; 1 Pacific Ocean
    INTELSAT earth station

:Kiribati Defense Forces

Branches:
    no military force maintained; the Police Force carries out law enforcement
    functions and paramilitary duties; there are small police posts on all
    islands
Manpower availability:
    NA
Defense expenditures:
    $NA, NA% of GDP

:Korea, North Geography

Total area:
    120,540 km2
Land area:
    120,410 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than Mississippi
Land boundaries:
    1,673 km; China 1,416 km, South Korea 238 km, Russia 19 km
Coastline:
    2,495 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Military boundary line:
    50 nm in the Sea of Japan and the exclusive economic zone limit in the
    Yellow Sea (all foreign vessels and aircraft without permission are banned)
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    short section of boundary with China is indefinite; Demarcation Line with
    South Korea
Climate:
    temperate with rainfall concentrated in summer
Terrain:
    mostly hills and mountains separated by deep, narrow valleys; coastal plains
    wide in west, discontinuous in east
Natural resources:
    coal, lead, tungsten, zinc, graphite, magnesite, iron ore, copper, gold,
    pyrites, salt, fluorspar, hydropower
Land use:
    arable land 18%; permanent crops 1%; meadows and pastures NEGL%; forest and
    woodland 74%; other 7%; includes irrigated 9%
Environment:
    mountainous interior is isolated, nearly inaccessible, and sparsely
    populated; late spring droughts often followed by severe flooding
Note:
    strategic location bordering China, South Korea, and Russia

:Korea, North People

Population:
    22,227,303 (July 1992), growth rate 1.9% (1992)
Birth rate:
    24 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    6 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    30 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    66 years male, 72 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    2.4 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Korean(s);adjective - Korean
Ethnic divisions:
    racially homogeneous
Religions:
    Buddhism and Confucianism; some Christianity and syncretic Chondogyo;
    autonomous religious activities now almost nonexistent; government-sponsored
    religious groups exist to provide illusion of religious freedom
Languages:
    Korean
Literacy:
    99%, (male 99%, female 99%); note - presumed to be virtually universal among
    population under age 60
Labor force:
    9,615,000; agricultural 36%, nonagricultural 64%; shortage of skilled and
    unskilled labor (mid-1987 est.)
Organized labor:
    1,600,000 members; single-trade union system coordinated by the General
    Federation of Trade Unions of Korea under the Central Committee

:Korea, North Government

Long-form name:
    Democratic People's Republic of Korea; abbreviated DPRK
Type:
    Communist state; Stalinist dictatorship
Capital:
    P'yongyang
Administrative divisions:
    9 provinces (do, singular and plural) and 3 special cities* (jikhalsi,
    singular and plural); Chagang-do, Hamgyong-namdo, Hamgyong-bukto,
    Hwanghae-namdo, Hwanghae-bukto, Kaesong-si*, Kangwon-do, Namp'o-si*,
    P'yongan-bukto, P'yongan-namdo,P'yongyang-si*, Yanggang-do
Independence:
    9 September 1948
Constitution:
    adopted 1948, revised 27 December 1972
Legal system:
    based on German civil law system with Japanese influences and Communist
    legal theory; no judicial review of legislative acts; has not accepted
    compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 9 September (1948)
Executive branch:
    president, two vice presidents, premier, eleven vice premiers, State
    Administration Council (cabinet)
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Supreme People's Assembly (Ch'oego Inmin Hoeui)
Judicial branch:
    Central Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President KIM Il-song (national leader since 1945, formally President since
    28 December 1972); designated Successor KIM Chong-il (son of President, born
    16 February 1942)
  Head of Government:
    Premier YON Hyong-muk (since December 1988)
Political parties and leaders:
    major party - Korean Workers' Party (KWP), KIM Il-song, general secretary,
    and his son, KIM Chong-il, secretary, Central Committee; Korean Social
    Democratic Party, YI Kye-paek, chairman; Chondoist Chongu Party, CHONG
    Sin-hyok, chairman
Suffrage:
    universal at age 17
Elections:
  President:
    last held 24 May 1990 (next to be held NA 1994); results - President KIM
    Il-song was reelected without opposition
  Supreme People's Assembly:
    last held on 24 May 1990 (next to be held NA 1994); results - percent of
    vote by party NA; seats - (687 total) the KWP approves a single list of
    candidates who are elected without opposition; minor parties hold a few
    seats
Communists:
    KWP claims membership of about 3 million
Member of:
    ESCAP, FAO, G-77, IAEA, ICAO, IFAD, IMF (observer), IMO, IOC, ISO, ITU,
    LORCS, NAM, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    none

:Korea, North Government

Flag:
    three horizontal bands of blue (top), red (triple width), and blue; the red
    band is edged in white; on the hoist side of the red band is a white disk
    with a red five-pointed star

:Korea, North Economy

Overview:
    More than 90% of this command economy is socialized; agricultural land is
    collectivized; and state-owned industry produces 95% of manufactured goods.
    State control of economic affairs is unusually tight even for a Communist
    country because of the small size and homogeneity of the society and the
    strict rule of KIM Il-song and his son, KIM Chong-il. Economic growth during
    the period 1984-89 averaged 2-3%, but output declined by 2-4% annually
    during 1990-91, largely because of disruptions in economic relations with
    the USSR. Abundant natural resources and hydropower form the basis of
    industrial development. Output of the extractive industries includes coal,
    iron ore, magnesite, graphite, copper, zinc, lead, and precious metals.
    Manufacturing is centered on heavy industry, with light industry lagging far
    behind. Despite the use of improved seed varieties, expansion of irrigation,
    and the heavy use of fertilizers, North Korea has not yet become
    self-sufficient in food production. Four consecutive years of poor harvests,
    coupled with distribution problems, have led to chronic food shortages.
    North Korea remains far behind South Korea in economic development and
    living standards.
GNP:
    purchasing power equivalent - $23.3 billion, per capita $1,100; real growth
    rate -2% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    NA%
Unemployment rate:
    officially none
Budget:
    revenues $17.3 billion; expenditures $17.7 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $NA (1990)
Exports:
    $2.02 billion (f.o.b., 1990)
  commodities:
    minerals, metallurgical products, agricultural products, manufactures
  partners:
    USSR, China, Japan, Hong Kong, Germany, Singapore
Imports:
    $2.62 billion (f.o.b., 1990 est.)
  commodities:
    petroleum, machinery and equipment, coking coal, grain
  partners:
    USSR, Japan, China, Hong Kong, FRG, Singapore
External debt:
    $7 billion (1991)
Industrial production:
    growth rate NA%
Electricity:
    7,140,000 kW capacity; 36,000 million kWh produced, 1,650 kWh per capita
    (1991)
Industries:
    machine building, military products, electric power, chemicals, mining,
    metallurgy, textiles, food processing
Agriculture:
    accounts for about 25% of GNP and 36% of work force; principal crops - rice,
    corn, potatoes, soybeans, pulses; livestock and livestock products - cattle,
    hogs, pork, eggs; not self-sufficient in grain; fish catch estimated at 1.7
    million metric tons in 1987
Economic aid:
    Communist countries, $1.4 billion a year in the 1980s
Currency:
    North Korean won (plural - won); 1 North Korean won (Wn) = 100 chon

:Korea, North Economy

Exchange rates:
    North Korean won (Wn) per US$1 - 2.13 (May 1992), 2.14 (September 1991), 2.1
    (January 1990), 2.3 (December 1989), 2.13 (December 1988), 0.94 (March 1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Korea, North Communications

Railroads:
    4,915 km total; 4,250 km 1.435-meter standard gauge, 665 km 0.762-meter
    narrow gauge; 159 km double track; 3,084 km electrified; government owned
    (1989)
Highways:
    about 30,000 km (1989); 98.5% gravel, crushed stone, or earth surface; 1.5%
    paved
Inland waterways:
    2,253 km; mostly navigable by small craft only
Pipelines:
    crude oil 37 km
Ports:
    Ch'ongjin, Haeju, Hungnam, Namp'o, Wonsan, Songnim, Najin, Sonbong (formerly
    Unggi), Kim Chaek
Merchant marine:
    78 ships (1,000 GRT and over) totaling 543,033 GRT/804,507 DWT; includes 1
    passenger, 1 short-sea passenger, 1 passenger-cargo, 67 cargo, 2 petroleum
    tanker, 4 bulk, 1 combination bulk, 1 container
Airports:
    55 total, 55 usable (est.); about 30 with permanent-surface runways; fewer
    than 5 with runways over 3,659 m; 20 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 30 with
    runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    broadcast stations - 18 AM, no FM, 11 TV; 200,000 TV sets; 3,500,000 radio
    receivers; 1 Indian Ocean INTELSAT earth station

:Korea, North Defense Forces

Branches:
    Korean People's Army (including the Army, Navy, Air Force), Civil Security
    Forces
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 6,476,839; 3,949,568 fit for military service; 227,154 reach
    military age (18) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - about $5 billion, 20-25% of GNP (1991 est.); note
    - the officially announced but suspect figure is $1.9 billion (1991) 8% of
    GNP (1991 est.)

:Korea, South Geography

Total area:
    98,480 km2
Land area:
    98,190 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than Indiana
Land boundaries:
    238 km; North Korea 238 km
Coastline:
    2,413 km
Maritime claims:
  Continental shelf:
    not specific
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm (3 nm in the Korea Strait)
Disputes:
    Demarcation Line with North Korea; Liancourt Rocks claimed by Japan
Climate:
    temperate, with rainfall heavier in summer than winter
Terrain:
    mostly hills and mountains; wide coastal plains in west and south
Natural resources:
    coal, tungsten, graphite, molybdenum, lead, hydropower
Land use:
    arable land 21%; permanent crops 1%; meadows and pastures 1%; forest and
    woodland 67%; other 10%; includes irrigated 12%
Environment:
    occasional typhoons bring high winds and floods; earthquakes in southwest;
    air pollution in large cities

:Korea, South People

Population:
    44,149,199 (July 1992), growth rate 1.1% (1992)
Birth rate:
    16 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    6 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    1 migrant/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    23 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    67 years male, 73 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    1.6 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Korean(s);adjective - Korean
Ethnic divisions:
    homogeneous; small Chinese minority (about 20,000)
Religions:
    strong Confucian tradition; vigorous Christian minority (24.3% of the total
    population); Buddhism; pervasive folk religion (Shamanism); Chondogyo
    (religion of the heavenly way), eclectic religion with nationalist overtones
    founded in 19th century, about 0.1% of population
Languages:
    Korean; English widely taught in high school
Literacy:
    96% (male 99%, female 94%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    16,900,000; 52% services and other; 27% mining and manufacturing; 21%
    agriculture, fishing, forestry (1987)
Organized labor:
    23.4% (1989) of labor force in government-sanctioned unions

:Korea, South Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Korea; abbreviated ROK
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Seoul
Administrative divisions:
    9 provinces (do, singular and plural) and 6 special cities* (jikhalsi,
    singular and plural); Cheju-do, Cholla-bukto, Cholla-namdo,
    Ch'ungch'ong-bukto, Ch'ungch'ong-namdo, Inch'on-jikhalsi*, Kangwon-do,
    Kwangju-jikhalsi*, Kyonggi-do, Kyongsang-bukto, Kyongsang-namdo,
    Pusan-jikhalsi*, Soul-t'ukpyolsi*, Taegu-jikhalsi*, Taejon-jikhalsi*
Independence:
    15 August 1948
Constitution:
    25 February 1988
Legal system:
    combines elements of continental European civil law systems, Anglo-American
    law, and Chinese classical thought
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 15 August (1948)
Executive branch:
    president, prime minister, two deputy prime ministers, State Council
    (cabinet)
Legislative branch:
    unicameral National Assembly (Kuk Hoe)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President ROH Tae Woo (since 25 February 1988)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister CHUNG Won Shik (since 24 May 1991); Deputy Prime Minister
    CHOI Gak Kyu (since 19 February 1991)
Political parties and leaders:
  ruling party:
    Democratic Liberal Party (DLP), ROH Tae Woo, president, KIM Young Sam,
    chairman; KIM Chong Pil and PAK Tae Chun, co-chairmen; note - the DLP
    resulted from a merger of the Democratic Justice Party (DJP), Reunification
    Democratic Party (RDP), and New Democratic Republican Party (NDRP) on 9
    February 1990
  opposition:
    Democratic Party (DP), result of a merger of the New Democratic Party and
    the Democratic Party formalized 16 September 1991; KIM Dae Jung, executive
    chairman; LEE Ki Taek, executive chairman; several smaller parties
Suffrage:
    universal at age 20
Elections:
  President:
    last held on 16 December 1987 (next to be held December 1992); results - ROH
    Tae Woo (DJP) 35.9%, KIM Young Sam (RDP) 27.5%, KIM Dae Jung (PPD) 26.5%,
    other 10.1%
  National Assembly:
    last held on 26 April 1988 (next to be held around March 1992); results -
    DJP 34%, RDP 24%, PPD 19%, NDRP 15%, other 8%; seats - (296 total) DJP 125,
    PPD 70, RDP 59, NDRP 35, other 10; note - on 9 February 1990 the DJP, RDP,
    and NDRP merged to form the DLP; also the PPD, later renamed the NDP, merged
    with another party to form the DP in September 1991. The distribution of
    seats as of December 1991 was DLP 214, DP 72, independent 9, vacant 1

:Korea, South Government

Other political or pressure groups:
    Korean National Council of Churches; National Democratic Alliance of Korea;
    National Council of College Student Representatives; National Federation of
    Farmers' Associations; National Council of Labor Unions; Federation of
    Korean Trade Unions; Korean Veterans' Association; Federation of Korean
    Industries; Korean Traders Association
Member of:
    AfDB, APEC, AsDB, CCC, COCOM, CP, EBRD, ESCAP, FAO, G-77, GATT, IAEA, IBRD,
    ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IMF, ILO, IMF, INMARSAT, INTELSAT,
    INTERPOL, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, LORCS, OAS, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU,
    WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador HYUN Hong Joo; Chancery at 2370 Massachusetts Avenue NW,
    Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 939-5600; there are Korean Consulates
    General in Agana (Guam), Anchorage, Atlanta, Chicago, Honolulu, Houston, Los
    Angeles, New York, San Francisco, and Seattle
  US:
    Ambassador Donald P. GREGG; Embassy at 82 Sejong-Ro, Chongro-ku, Seoul,
    AMEMB, Unit 15550 (mailing address is APO AP 96205-0001); telephone [82] (2)
    732-2601 through 2618; FAX [82] (2) 738-8845; there is a US Consulate in
    Pusan
Flag:
    white with a red (top) and blue yin-yang symbol in the center; there is a
    different black trigram from the ancient I Ching (Book of Changes) in each
    corner of the white field

:Korea, South Economy

Overview:
    The driving force behind the economy's dynamic growth has been the planned
    development of an export-oriented economy in a vigorously entrepreneurial
    society. Real GNP has increased more than 10% annually over the past six
    years. This growth has led to an overheated situation characterized by a
    tight labor market, strong inflationary pressures, and a rapidly rising
    current account deficit. Policymakers have stated they will focus attention
    on slowing inflation. In any event, the economy will remain the envy of the
    great majority of the world's peoples.
GNP:
    purchasing power equivalent - $273 billion, per capita $6,300; real growth
    rate 8.7% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    9.7% (1991)
Unemployment rate:
    2.4% (1991)
Budget:
    revenues $44 billion; expenditures $44 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $NA (1992)
Exports:
    $71.9 billion (f.o.b., 1991)
  commodities:
    textiles, clothing, electronic and electrical equipment, footwear,
    machinery, steel, automobiles, ships, fish
  partners:
    US 26%, Japan 18% (1991)
Imports:
    $81.6 billion (c.i.f., 1991)
  commodities:
    machinery, electronics and electronic equipment, oil, steel, transport
    equipment, textiles, organic chemicals, grains
  partners:
    Japan 26%, US 23% (1991)
External debt:
    $38.2 billion (1991)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 7.5% (1991 est.); accounts for about 45% of GNP
Electricity:
    24,000,000 kW capacity; 106,000 million kWh produced, 2,460 kWh per capita
    (1991)
Industries:
    textiles, clothing, footwear, food processing, chemicals, steel,
    electronics, automobile production, shipbuilding
Agriculture:
    accounts for 8% of GNP and employs 21% of work force (including fishing and
    forestry); principal crops - rice, root crops, barley, vegetables, fruit;
    livestock and livestock products - cattle, hogs, chickens, milk, eggs;
    self-sufficient in food, except for wheat; fish catch of 2.9 million metric
    tons, seventh-largest in world
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $3.9 billion; non-US countries
    (1970-89), $3.0 billion
Currency:
    South Korean won (plural - won); 1 South Korean won (W) = 100 chon
    (theoretical)
Exchange rates:
    South Korean won (W) per US$1 - 766.66 (January 1992), 733.35 (1991), 707.76
    (1990), 671.46 (1989), 731.47 (1988), 822.57 (1987)

:Korea, South Economy

Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Korea, South Communications

Railroads:
    3,106 km operating in 1983; 3,059 km 1.435-meter standard gauge, 47 km
    0.610-meter narrow gauge, 712 km double track, 418 km electrified;
    government owned
Highways:
    62,936 km total (1982); 13,476 km national highway, 49,460 km provincial and
    local roads
Inland waterways:
    1,609 km; use restricted to small native craft
Pipelines:
    petroleum products 455 km
Ports:
    Pusan, Inchon, Kunsan, Mokpo, Ulsan
Merchant marine:
    435 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 6,924,818 GRT/11,389,397 DWT;
    includes 2 short-sea passenger, 140 cargo, 53 container, 11 refrigerated
    cargo, 9 vehicle carrier, 42 petroleum tanker, 10 chemical tanker, 14
    liquefied gas, 5 combination ore/oil, 145 bulk, 3 combination bulk, 1
    multifunction large-load carrier
Civil air:
    93 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    105 total, 97 usable; 60 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 23 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 16 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    adequate domestic and international services; 4,800,000 telephones;
    broadcast stations - 79 AM, 46 FM, 256 TV (57 of 1 kW or greater); satellite
    earth stations - 2 Pacific Ocean INTELSAT and 1 Indian Ocean INTELSAT

:Korea, South Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Navy, Marines Corps, Air Force
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 13,131,113; 8,456,428 fit for military service; 448,450 reach
    military age (18) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $12.6 billion, 4.5% of GNP (1992 budget)

:Kuwait Geography

Total area:
    17,820 km2
Land area:
    17,820 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than New Jersey
Land boundaries:
    462 km; Iraq 240 km, Saudi Arabia 222 km
Coastline:
    499 km
Maritime claims:
  Continental shelf:
    not specific
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    in April 1991 official Iraqi acceptance of UN Security Council Resolution
    687, which demands that Iraq accept the inviolability of the boundary set
    forth in its 1963 agreement with Kuwait, ending earlier claims to Bubiyan
    and Warbah Islands or to all of Kuwait; a UN Boundary Demarcation Commission
    is demarcating the Iraq-Kuwait boundary persuant to Resolution 687, and, on
    17 June 1992, the UN Security Council reaffirmed the finality of the
    Boundary Demarcation Commission's decisions; ownership of Qaruh and Umm al
    Maradim Islands disputed by Saudi Arabia
Climate:
    dry desert; intensely hot summers; short, cool winters
Terrain:
    flat to slightly undulating desert plain
Natural resources:
    petroleum, fish, shrimp, natural gas
Land use:
    arable land NEGL%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 8%; forest and
    woodland NEGL%; other 92%; includes irrigated NEGL%
Environment:
    some of world's largest and most sophisticated desalination facilities
    provide most of water; air and water pollution; desertification
Note:
    strategic location at head of Persian Gulf

:Kuwait People

Population:
    1,378,613 (July 1992), growth rate NA (1992)
Birth rate:
    32 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    2 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    NA migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    14 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    72 years male, 76 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    4.4 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Kuwaiti(s); adjective - Kuwaiti
Ethnic divisions:
    Kuwaiti 50%, other Arab 35%, South Asian 9%, Iranian 4%, other 2%
Religions:
    Muslim 85% (Shi`a 30%, Sunni 45%, other 10%), Christian, Hindu, Parsi, and
    other 15%
Languages:
    Arabic (official); English widely spoken
Literacy:
    74% (male 78%, female 69%) age 15 and over can read and write (1985)
Labor force:
    566,000 (1986); services 45.0%, construction 20.0%, trade 12.0%,
    manufacturing 8.6%, finance and real estate 2.6%, agriculture 1.9%, power
    and water 1.7%, mining and quarrying 1.4%; 70% of labor force was
    non-Kuwaiti
Organized labor:
    labor unions exist in oil industry and among government personnel

:Kuwait Government

Long-form name:
    State of Kuwait
Type:
    nominal constitutional monarchy
Capital:
    Kuwait
Administrative divisions:
    5 governorates (mu'hafaz'at, singular - muh'afaz'ah); Al Ah'madi, Al Jahrah,
    Al Kuwayt, 'Hawalli; Farwaniyah
Independence:
    19 June 1961 (from UK)
Constitution:
    16 November 1962 (some provisions suspended since 29 August 1962)
Legal system:
    civil law system with Islamic law significant in personal matters; has not
    accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
National holiday:
    National Day, 25 February
Executive branch:
    amir, prime minister, deputy prime minister, Council of Ministers (cabinet)
Legislative branch:
    National Assembly (Majlis al `umma) dissolved 3 July 1986; elections for new
    Assembly scheduled for October 1992
Judicial branch:
    High Court of Appeal
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Amir Shaykh JABIR al-Ahmad al-Jabir al-Sabah (since 31 December 1977)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister and Crown Prince SA`UD al-`Abdallah al-Salim al-Sabah (since
    8 February 1978); Deputy Prime Minister SALIM al-Sabah al-Salim al-Sabah
Political parties and leaders:
    none
Suffrage:
    adult males who resided in Kuwait before 1920 and their male descendants at
    age 21; note - out of all citizens, only 10% are eligible to vote and only
    5% actually vote
Elections:
  National Assembly:
    dissolved 3 July 1986; new elections are scheduled for October 1992
Other political or pressure groups:
    40,000 Palestinian community; small, clandestine leftist and Shi`a
    fundamentalist groups are active; several groups critical of government
    policies are active
Member of:
    ABEDA, AfDB, AFESD, AL, AMF, BDEAC, CAEU, ESCWA, FAO, G-77, GATT, GCC, IAEA,
    IBRD, ICAO, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INMARSAT, INTELSAT,
    INTERPOL, IOC, ISO (correspondent), ITU, LORCS, NAM, OAPEC, OIC, OPEC, UN,
    UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Shaykh Sa`ud Nasir al-SABAH; Chancery at 2940 Tilden Street NW,
    Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 966-0702
  US:
    Ambassador Edward (Skip) GNEHM, Jr.; Embassy at Bneid al-Gar (opposite the
    Kuwait International Hotel), Kuwait City (mailing address is P.O. Box 77
    SAFAT, 13001 SAFAT, Kuwait; APO AE 09880); telephone [965] 242-4151 through
    4159; FAX [956] 244-2855

:Kuwait Government

Flag:
    three equal horizontal bands of green (top), white, and red with a black
    trapezoid based on the hoist side

:Kuwait Economy

Overview:
    Up to the invasion by Iraq in August 1990, the oil sector had dominated the
    economy. Kuwait has the third-largest oil reserves in the world after Saudi
    Arabia and Iraq. Earnings from hydrocarbons have generated over 90% of both
    export and government revenues and contributed about 40% to GDP. Most of the
    nonoil sector has traditionally been dependent upon oil-derived government
    revenues. Iraq's destruction of Kuwait's oil industry during the Gulf war
    has devastated the economy. Iraq destroyed or damaged more than 80% of
    Kuwait's 950 operating oil wells, as well as sabotaged key surface
    facilities. Firefighters brought all of the roughly 750 oil well fires and
    blowouts under control by November 1991. By yearend, production had been
    brought back to 400,000 barrels per day; it could take two to three years to
    restore Kuwait's oil production to its prewar level of about 2.0 million
    barrels per day. Meanwhile, population had been greatly reduced because of
    the war, from 2.1 million to 1.4 million.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $8.75 billion, per capita $6,200; real growth
    rate -50% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    NA
Unemployment rate:
    NA
Budget:
    revenues $7.1 billion; expenditures $10.5 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $3.1 billion (FY88)
Exports:
    $11.4 billion (f.o.b., 1989)
  commodities:
    oil 90%
  partners:
    Japan 19%, Netherlands 9%, US 8%, Pakistan 6%
Imports:
    $6.6 billion (f.o.b., 1989)
  commodities:
    food, construction materials, vehicles and parts, clothing
  partners:
    US 15%, Japan 12%, FRG 8%, UK 7%
External debt:
    $7.2 billion (December 1989 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 3% (1988); accounts for 52% of GDP
Electricity:
    3,100,000 kW available out of 8,290,000 kW capacity due to Persian Gulf war;
    7,300 million kWh produced, 3,311 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    petroleum, petrochemicals, desalination, food processing, building
    materials, salt, construction
Agriculture:
    virtually none; dependent on imports for food; about 75% of potable water
    must be distilled or imported
Economic aid:
    donor - pledged $18.3 billion in bilateral aid to less developed countries
    (1979-89)
Currency:
    Kuwaiti dinar (plural - dinars); 1 Kuwaiti dinar (KD) = 1,000 fils
Exchange rates:
    Kuwaiti dinars (KD) per US$1 - 0.2950 (March 1992), 0.2843 (1991), 0.2915
    (1990), 0.2937 (1989), 0.2790 (1988), 0.2786 (1987)

:Kuwait Economy

Fiscal year:
    1 July - 30 June

:Kuwait Communications

Railroads:
    6,456 km total track length (1990); over 700 km double track; government
    owned
Highways:
    3,900 km total; 3,000 km bituminous; 900 km earth, sand, light gravel
Pipelines:
    crude oil 877 km; petroleum products 40 km; natural gas 165 km
Ports:
    Ash Shu`aybah, Ash Shuwaykh, Mina' al 'Ahmadi
Merchant marine:
    29 ships (1,000 GRT or over), totaling 1,196,435 GRT/1,957,216 DWT; includes
    2 cargo, 4 livestock carrier, 18 oil tanker, 4 liquefied gas; note - all
    Kuwaiti ships greater than 1,000 GRT were outside Kuwaiti waters at the time
    of the Iraqi invasion; many of these ships transferred to the Liberian flag
    or to the flags of other Persian Gulf states; only 1 has returned to Kuwaiti
    flag since the liberation of Kuwait
Civil air:
    9 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    7 total, 4 usable; 4 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways over
    3,659 m; 4 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; none with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    civil network suffered extensive damage as a result of Desert Storm;
    reconstruction is under way with some restored international and domestic
    capabilities; broadcast stations - 3 AM, 0 FM, 3 TV; satellite earth
    stations - destroyed during Persian Gulf war; temporary mobile satellite
    ground stations provide international telecommunications; coaxial cable and
    radio relay to Saudi Arabia; service to Iraq is nonoperational

:Kuwait Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Navy, Air Force, National Police Force, National Guard
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 389,770; 234,609 fit for military service; 12,773 reach
    military age (18) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $9.17 billion, 20.4% of GDP (1992 budget)

:Kyrgyzstan Geography

Total area:
    198,500 km2
Land area:
    191,300 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than South Dakota
Land boundaries:
    3,878 km; China 858 km, Kazakhstan 1,051 km, Tajikistan 870 km, Uzbekistan
    1,099 km
Coastline:
    none - landlocked
Maritime claims:
    none - landlocked
Disputes:
    territorial dispute with Tajikistan on southern boundary in Isfara Valley
    area
Climate:
    dry continental to polar in high Tien Shan; subtropical in south (Fergana
    Valley)
Terrain:
    peaks of Tien Shan rise to 7,000 meters, and associated valleys and basins
    encompass entire nation
Natural resources:
    small amounts of coal, natural gas, oil; also nepheline, rare earth metals,
    mercury, bismuth, gold, uranium, lead, zinc, hydroelectric power
Land use:
    NA% arable land; NA% permanent crops; NA% meadows and pastures; NA% forest
    and woodland; NA% other; includes NA% irrigated
Environment:
    NA

:Kyrgyzstan People

Population:
    4,567,875 (July 1992), growth rate 1.9% (1992)
Birth rate:
    31 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    8 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    - 8.5 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    56 deaths/1,000 live births (1991)
Life expectancy at birth:
    62 years male, 71 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    4.0 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Kirghiz(s); adjective - Kirghiz
Ethnic divisions:
    Kirghiz 52%, Russian 21%, Uzbek 13%, other 14%
Religions:
    Muslim 70%, Russian Orthodox NA%
Languages:
    Kirghiz (Kyrgyz)
Literacy:
    NA% (male NA%, female NA%) age 15 and over can read and write
Labor force:
    1,894,000 (1989); agriculture 33%, other 49%, industry 18%, other NA% (1988)
Organized labor:
    NA

:Kyrgyzstan Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Kyrgyzstan
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Bishkek (formerly Frunze)
Administrative divisions:
    6 oblasts (oblastey, singular - oblast'); Chu, Dzhalal-Abad, Issyk-Kul',
    Naryn, Osh, Talas; note - an oblast has the same name as its administrative
    center
Independence:
    31 August 1991 (from Soviet Union; formerly Kirghiz Soviet Socialist
    Republic)
Constitution:
    adopted NA, effective 20 April 1978, amended 23 September 1989; note - new
    constitution is being drafted
Legal system:
    NA
National holiday:
    NA
Executive branch:
    president, Cabinet of Ministers
Legislative branch:
    unicameral body or bicameral
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court
Leaders:
    President Askar AKAYEV; Vice President Felix KULOV; Chairman, Supreme
    Soviet, Medetkav SHERIMKULOV; Spiritual leader of Kyrgyz Muslims, Sadykzhav
    KAMALOV
  Chief of State:
    President Askar AKAYEV (since 28 October 1990), Vice President Felix KULOV
    (since 2 March 1992)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Tursenbek CHYNGYSHEV (since 2 March 1992)
Political parties and leaders:
    Kyrgyzstan Democratic Movement, Zhypur ZHEKSHEYEV, Kazat AKMAKOV, and
    Toshubek TURGANALIEV, co-chairmen of popular front coalition of 40 informal
    groups for Democratic Renewal and Civic Accord, 117-man pro-Akayev
    parliamentary faction; Civic Accord, Coalition representing nonnative
    minority groups; National Revived Asaba (Banner) Party, Asan ORMUSHEV,
    chairman; Communist Party now banned
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  President:
    last held 12 October 1991 (next to be held NA 1996); results - AKAYEV won in
    uncontested election with 95% of vote with 90% of electorate voting; note -
    Republic Supreme Soviet elections held 25 February 1990; presidential
    elections held first by Supreme Soviet 28 October 1990, then by popular vote
    12 October 1991
  Supreme Soviet:
    note - last held 25 February 1990 (next to be held no later than November
    1994); results - Commnunists (310) 90%, seats - (350 total)
Other political or pressure groups:
    National Unity Democratic Movement; Peasant Party; Council of Free Trade
    Union; Union of Entrepreneurs
Member of:
    CIS, CSCE, IMF, UN, UNCTAD

:Kyrgyzstan Government

Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador NA; Chancery at NW, Washington, DC 200__; telephone (202) NA;
    there are Consulates General in NA;
  US:
    Charge Ralph Bresler; Interim Chancery at #66 Derzhinskiy Prospekt;
    Residence: Hotel Pishpek (mailing address is APO AE 09862); telephone
    8-011-7-3312-22-22-70
Flag:
    red-orange field with yellow sun in center with folk motif medallion
    inscribed

:Kyrgyzstan Economy

Overview:
    Kyrgyzstan's small economy (less than 1% of the total for the former Soviet
    Union) is oriented toward agriculture, producing mainly livestock such as
    goats and sheep, as well as cotton, grain, and tobacco. Industry,
    concentrated around Bishkek, produces small quantities of electric motors,
    livestock feeding equipment, washing machines, furniture, cement, paper, and
    bricks. Mineral extraction is small, the most important minerals being rare
    earth metals and gold. Kyrgyzstan is a net importer of most types of food
    and fuel but is a net exporter of electricity. By early 1991, the Kirghiz
    leadership had accelerated reform, primarily by privatizing business and
    granting life-long tenure to farmers. In 1991 overall industrial and
    livestock output declined substantially.
GDP:
    purchasing power equivalent - $NA billion, per capita $NA; real growth rate
    -5% (1991)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    88% (1991)
Unemployment rate:
    NA%
Budget:
    revenues $NA million; expenditures $NA million
Exports:
    $115 million (1990)
  commodities:
    wool, chemicals, cotton, ferrous and nonferrous metals, shoes, machinery,
    tobacco
  partners:
    Russia 70%, Ukraine, Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan, and others
Imports:
    $1.5 million (c.i.f., 1990)
  commodities:
    lumber, industrial products, ferrous metals, fuel, machinery, textiles,
    footwear
External debt:
    $650 million (1991)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 0.1% (1991)
Electricity:
    NA kW capacity; 13,900 million kWh produced, 3,232 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    small machinery, textiles, food-processing industries, cement, shoes, sawn
    logs, steel, refrigerators, furniture, electric motors, gold, and rare earth
    metals
Agriculture:
    wool, tobacco, cotton, livestock (sheep and goats) and cattle, vegetables,
    meat, grapes, fruits and berries, eggs, milk, potatoes
Illicit drugs:
    poppy cultivation legal
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-87), $NA billion; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-86), $NA million;
    Communist countries (1971-86), $NA million
Currency:
    as of May 1992, retaining ruble as currency
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Kyrgyzstan Communications

Railroads:
    370 km; does not include industrial lines (1990)
Highways:
    30,300 km total; 22,600 km paved or graveled, 7,700 km earth(1990)
Inland waterways:
    NA km perennially navigable
Pipelines:
    NA
Ports:
    none - landlocked
Civil air:
    NA
Airports:
    NA
Telecommunications:
    poorly developed; connections with other CIS countries by landline or
    microwave and with other countries by leased connections with Moscow
    international gateway switch; satellite earth stations - Orbita and INTELSAT
    (TV receive only)

:Kyrgyzstan Defense Forces

Branches:
    Republic Security Forces (internal and border troops); National Guard, Civil
    Defense; CIS Forces (Ground, Air, and Air Defense)
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, NA fit for military service; NA reach military age (18)
    annually
Defense expenditures:
    $NA, NA% of GDP

:Laos Geography

Total area:
    236,800 km2
Land area:
    230,800 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than Utah
Land boundaries:
    5,083 km; Burma 235 km, Cambodia 541 km, China 423 km, Thailand 1,754 km,
    Vietnam 2,130 km
Coastline:
    none - landlocked
Maritime claims:
    none - landlocked
Disputes:
    boundary dispute with Thailand
Climate:
    tropical monsoon; rainy season (May to November); dry season (December to
    April)
Terrain:
    mostly rugged mountains; some plains and plateaus
Natural resources:
    timber, hydropower, gypsum, tin, gold, gemstones
Land use:
    arable land 4%; permanent crops NEGL%; meadows and pastures 3%; forest and
    woodland 58%; other 35%; includes irrigated 1%
Environment:
    deforestation; soil erosion; subject to floods
Note:
    landlocked

:Laos People

Population:
    4,440,213 (July 1992), growth rate 2.9% (1992)
Birth rate:
    44 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    16 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    107 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    49 years male, 52 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    6.3 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Lao(s) or Laotian(s); adjective - Lao or Laotian
Ethnic divisions:
    Lao 50%, Phoutheung (Kha) 15%, tribal Thai 20%, Meo, Hmong, Yao, and other
    15%
Religions:
    Buddhist 85%, animist and other 15%
Languages:
    Lao (official), French, and English
Literacy:
    84% (male 92%, female 76%) age 15 to 45 can read and write (1985 est.)
Labor force:
    1-1.5 million; 85-90% in agriculture (est.)
Organized labor:
    Lao Federation of Trade Unions is subordinate to the Communist party

:Laos Government

Long-form name:
    Lao People's Democratic Republic
Type:
    Communist state
Capital:
    Vientiane
Administrative divisions:
    16 provinces (khoueng, singular and plural) and 1 municipality* (kampheng
    nakhon, singular and plural); Attapu, Bokeo, Bolikhamsai, Champasak,
    Houaphan, Khammouan, Louang Namtha, Louangphrabang, Oudomxai, Phongsali,
    Saravan, Savannakhet, Sekong, Vientiane, Vientiane*, Xaignabouri,
    Xiangkhoang
Independence:
    19 July 1949 (from France)
Constitution:
    promulgated August 1991
Legal system:
    based on civil law system; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
National holiday:
    National Day (proclamation of the Lao People's Democratic Republic), 2
    December (1975)
Executive branch:
    president, chairman and two vice chairmen of the Council of Ministers,
    Council of Ministers (cabinet)
Legislative branch:
    Supreme People's Assembly
Judicial branch:
    People's Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President KAYSONE PHOMVIHAN (since 15 August 1991)
  Head of Government:
    Chairman of the Council of Ministers Gen. KHAMTAI SIPHANDON (since 15 August
    1991)
Political parties and leaders:
    Lao People's Revolutionary Party (LPRP), KAYSONE PHOMVIHAN, party chairman;
    includes Lao Patriotic Front and Alliance Committee of Patriotic Neutralist
    Forces; other parties moribund
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  Supreme People's Assembly:
    last held on 26 March 1989 (next to be held NA); results - percent of vote
    by party NA; seats - (79 total) number of seats by party NA
Other political or pressure groups:
    non-Communist political groups moribund; most leaders have fled the country
Member of:
    ACCT (associate), AsDB, CP, ESCAP, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, IDA, IFAD, ILO,
    IMF, INTERPOL, IOC, ITU, LORCS, NAM, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU,
    WFTU, WHO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Charge d'Affaires LINTHONG PHETSAVAN; Chancery at 2222 S Street NW,
    Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 332-6416 or 6417
  US:
    Charge d'Affaires Charles B. SALMON, Jr.; Embassy at Rue Bartholonie,
    Vientiane (mailing address is B. P. 114, Vientiane, or AMEMB, Box V, APO AP
    96546); telephone (856) 2220, 2357, 2384; FAX (856) 4675

:Laos Government

Flag:
    three horizontal bands of red (top), blue (double width), and red with a
    large white disk centered in the blue band

:Laos Economy

Overview:
    One of the world's poorest nations, Laos has had a Communist centrally
    planned economy with government ownership and control of productive
    enterprises of any size. In recent years, however, the government has been
    decentralizing control and encouraging private enterprise. Laos is a
    landlocked country with a primitive infrastructure; that is, it has no
    railroads, a rudimentary road system, limited external and internal
    telecommunications, and electricity available in only a limited area.
    Subsistence agriculture is the main occupation, accounting for over 60% of
    GDP and providing about 85-90% of total employment. The predominant crop is
    rice. For the foreseeable future the economy will continue to depend for its
    survival on foreign aid from the IMF and other international sources; aid
    from the former USSR and Eastern Europe has been cut sharply.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $800 million, per capita $200; real growth rate
    4% (1991)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    10.4% (December 1991)
Unemployment rate:
    21% (1989 est.)
Budget:
    revenues $83 million; expenditures $188.5 million, including capital
    expenditures of $94 million (1990 est.)
Exports:
    $72 million (f.o.b., 1990 est.)
  commodities:
    electricity, wood products, coffee, tin
  partners:
    Thailand, Malaysia, Vietnam, USSR, US, China
Imports:
    $238 million (c.i.f., 1990 est.)
  commodities:
    food, fuel oil, consumer goods, manufactures
  partners:
    Thailand, USSR, Japan, France, Vietnam, China
External debt:
    $1.1 billion (1990 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 12% (1991 est.); accounts for about 18% of GDP (1991 est.)
Electricity:
    226,000 kW capacity; 1,100 million kWh produced, 270 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    tin and gypsum mining, timber, electric power, agricultural processing,
    construction
Agriculture:
    accounts for 60% of GDP and employs most of the work force; subsistence
    farming predominates; normally self-sufficient in nondrought years;
    principal crops - rice (80% of cultivated land), sweet potatoes, vegetables,
    corn, coffee, sugarcane, cotton; livestock - buffaloes, hogs, cattle,
    chicken
Illicit drugs:
    illicit producer of cannabis, opium poppy for the international drug trade,
    third-largest opium producer
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-79), $276 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $605 million;
    Communist countries (1970-89), $995 million
Currency:
    new kip (plural - kips); 1 new kip (NK) = 100 at

:Laos Economy

Exchange rates:
    new kips (NK) per US$1 - 710 (May 1992), 710 (December 1991), 700 (September
    1990), 576 (1989), 385 (1988), 200 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    1 July - 30 June

:Laos Communications

Railroads:
    none
Highways:
    about 27,527 km total; 1,856 km bituminous or bituminous treated; 7,451 km
    gravel, crushed stone, or improved earth; 18,220 km unimproved earth and
    often impassable during rainy season mid-May to mid-September
Inland waterways:
    about 4,587 km, primarily Mekong and tributaries; 2,897 additional
    kilometers are sectionally navigable by craft drawing less than 0.5 m
Pipelines:
    petroleum products 136 km
Ports:
    none
Airports:
    57 total, 47 usable; 8 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 1 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 14 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    service to general public considered poor; radio communications network
    provides generally erratic service to government users; 7,390 telephones
    (1986); broadcast stations - 10 AM, no FM, 1 TV; 1 satellite earth station

:Laos Defense Forces

Branches:
    Lao People's Army (LPA; including naval, aviation, and militia elements),
    Air Force, National Police Department
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 946,289; 509,931 fit for military service; 45,232 reach
    military age (18) annually; conscription age NA
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $NA, NA% of GDP

:Latvia Geography

Total area:
    64,100 km2
Land area:
    64,100 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than West Virginia
Land boundaries:
    1,078 km; Belarus 141 km, Estonia 267 km, Lithuania 453 km, Russia 217 km
Coastline:
    531 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    NA nm
  Continental shelf:
    NA meter depth
  Exclusive fishing zone:
    NA nm
  Exclusive economic zone:
    NA nm
  Territorial sea:
    NA nm
Disputes:
    the Abrene section of border ceded by the Latvian Soviet Socialist Republic
    to Russia in 1944
Climate:
    maritime; wet, moderate winters
Terrain:
    low plain
Natural resources:
    minimal; amber, peat, limestone, dolomite
Land use:
    27% arable land; NA% permanent crops; 13% meadows and pastures; 39% forest
    and woodland; 21% other; includes NA% irrigated
Environment:
    heightened levels of air and water pollution because of a lack of waste
    conversion equipment; Gulf of Riga heavily polluted

:Latvia People

Population:
    2,728,937 (July 1992), growth rate 0.6% (1992)
Birth rate:
    15 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    12 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    4 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    19 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    65 years male, 75 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    2.1 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Latvian(s);adjective - Latvian
Ethnic divisions:
    Latvian 51.8%, Russian 33.8%, Byelorussian 4.5%, Ukrainian 3.4%, Polish
    2.3%, other 4.2%
Religions:
    Lutheran, Roman Catholic, Russian Orthodox
Languages:
    Latvian NA% (official), Lithuanian NA%, Russian NA%, other NA%
Literacy:
    NA% (male NA%, female NA%) age 15 and over can read and write
Labor force:
    1,407,000; industry and construction 41%, agriculture and forestry 16%,
    other 43% (1990)
Organized labor:
    NA

:Latvia Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Latvia
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Riga
Administrative divisions:
    none - all districts are under direct republic jurisdiction
Independence:
    18 November 1918; annexed by the USSR 21 July 1940, the Latvian Soviet
    Socialist Republic declared independence 6 September 1991 from USSR
Constitution:
    April 1978, currently rewriting constitution, but readopted the 1922
    Constitution
Legal system:
    based on civil law system
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 18 November (1918)
Executive branch:
    Prime Minister
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Supreme Council
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Chairman, Supreme Council, Anatolijs GORBUNOVS (since October 1988);
    Chairmen, Andrejs KRASTINS, Valdis BIRKAVS (since NA 1992)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Ivars GODMANIS (since May 1990)
Political parties and leaders:
    Democratic Labor Party of Latvia, Juris BOJARS, chairman; Inter-Front of the
    Working People of Latvia, Igor LOPATIN, chairman; note - Inter-Front was
    banned after the coup; Latvian National Movement for Independence, Eduards
    BERKLAVS, chairman; Latvian Social Democratic Party, Janis DINEVICS,
    chairman; Social Democratic Party of Latvia, Uldis BERZINS, chairman;
    Latvian People's Front, Romualdas RAZUKAS, chairman; Latvian Liberal Party,
    Georg LANSMANIS, chairman
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  President:
    last held October 1988 (next to be held NA; note - elected by Parliament;
    new elections have not been scheduled; results - percent of vote by party NA
  Supreme Council:
    last held 18 March 1990 (next to be held NA); results - undetermined; seats
    - (234 total) Latvian Communist Party 59, Latvian Democratic Workers Party
    31, Social Democratic Party of Latvia 4, Green Party of Latvia 7, Latvian
    Farmers Union 7, 126 supported by the Latvia Popular Front
  Congress of Latvia:
    last held April 1990 (next to be held NA); note - the Congress of Latvia is
    a quasi-governmental structure; results - percent of vote by party NA%;
    seats - (231 total) number of seats by party NA
Member of:
    CSCE, IAEA, UN
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Dr. Anatol DINBERGS; Chancery at 4325 17th St. NW, Washington, DC
    20011; telephone (202) 726-8213 and 8214

:Latvia Government

  US:
    Ambassador Ints SILINS; (mailing address is APO AE 09862); telephone [358]
    (49) 306-067 (cellular), (7) (01-32) 325-968/185; FAX [358] (49) 308-326
    (cellular), (7) (01-32) 220-502
Flag:
    two horizontal bands of maroon (top), white (middle, narrower than other two
    bands) and maroon (bottom)

:Latvia Economy

Overview:
    Latvia is in the process of reforming the centrally planned economy
    inherited from the former USSR into a market economy. Prices have been
    freed, and privatization of shops and farms has begun. Latvia lacks natural
    resources, aside from its arable land and small forests. Its most valuable
    economic asset is its work force, which is better educated and disciplined
    than in most of the former Soviet republics. Industrial production is highly
    diversified, with products ranging from agricultural machinery to consumer
    electronics. One conspicuous vulnerability: Latvia produces only 10% of its
    electric power needs. Latvia in the near term must retain key commercial
    ties to Russia, Belarus, and Ukraine while moving in the long run toward
    joint ventures, technological support, and trade ties to the West. Because
    of the efficiency of its mostly individual farms, Latvians enjoy a diet that
    is higher in meat, vegetables, and dairy products and lower in grain and
    potatoes than diets in the 12 non-Baltic republics of the USSR. Good
    relations with Russia are threatened by animosity between ethnic Russians
    (34% of the population) and native Latvians.
GDP:
    purchasing power equivalent - $NA; per capital NA; real growth rate - 8%
    (1991)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    approximately 200% (1991)
Unemployment rate:
    NA%
Budget:
    revenues $NA; expenditures $NA, including capital expenditures of $NA (1991)
Exports:
    $239 million (f.o.b., 1990)
  commodities:
    food 14%, railroad cars 13%, chemicals 12%
  partners:
    Russia 50%, Ukraine 15%, other former Soviet republics 30%, West 5%
Imports:
    $9.0 billion (c.i.f., 1989)
  commodities:
    machinery 35%, petroleum products 13%, chemicals 9%
  partners:
    NA
External debt:
    $650 million (1991 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 0% (1991)
Electricity:
    1,975,000 kW capacity; 6,500 million kWh produced, 2,381 kWh per capita
    (1990)
Industries:
    employs 33.2% of labor force; highly diversified; dependent on imports for
    energy, raw materials, and intermediate products; produces buses, vans,
    street and railroad cars, synthetic fibers, agricultural machinery,
    fertilizers, washing machines, radios, electronics, pharmaceuticals,
    processed foods, textiles
Agriculture:
    employs 23% of labor force; principally dairy farming and livestock feeding;
    products - meat, milk, eggs, grain, sugar beets, potatoes, and vegetables;
    fishing and fish packing
Illicit drugs:
    transshipment point for illicit drugs from Central and Southwest Asia to
    Western Europe

:Latvia Economy

Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-87), $NA billion; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-86), $NA million;
    Communist countries (1971-86), $NA million
Currency:
    as of May 1992, retaining ruble as currency but planning early introduction
    of ``lat''
Exchange rates:
    NA
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Latvia Communications

Railroads:
    2,400 km (includes NA km electrified) does not include industrial lines
    (1990)
Highways:
    59,500 km total (1990); 33,000 km hard surfaced 26,500 km earth
Inland waterways:
    300 km perennially navigable
Pipelines:
    crude oil NA km, refined products NA km, natural gas NA km
Ports:
    maritime - Riga, Ventspils, Liepaja; inland - Daugavpils
Merchant marine:
    96 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 917,979 GRT/1,194,666 DWT; includes 14
    cargo, 29 refrigerated cargo, 2 container, 9 roll-on/roll-off, 42 petroleum
    tanker
Civil air:
    NA major transport aircraft
Airports:
    NA total, NA usable; NA with permanent-surface runways; NA with runways over
    3,659 m; NA with runways 2,440-3,659 m; NA with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    broadcast stations - NA; international traffic carried by leased connection
    to the Moscow international gateway switch and the Finnish cellular net

:Latvia Defense Forces

Branches:
    Republic Security Forces (internal and border troops), National Guard,
    Russian Forces (Ground, Navy, Air, Air Defense, Border Guard
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, NA; NA fit for military service; NA reach military age (18)
    annually
Defense expenditures:
    NA% of GDP; 3-5% of Latvia's budget (1992)

:Lebanon Geography

Total area:
    10,400 km2
Land area:
    10,230 km2
Comparative area:
    about 0.8 times the size of Connecticut
Land boundaries:
    454 km; Israel 79 km, Syria 375 km
Coastline:
    225 km
Maritime claims:
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    separated from Israel by the 1949 Armistice Line; Israeli troops in southern
    Lebanon since June 1982; Syrian troops in northern Lebanon since October
    1976
Climate:
    Mediterranean; mild to cool, wet winters with hot, dry summers
Terrain:
    narrow coastal plain; Al Biqa` (Bekaa Valley) separates Lebanon and
    Anti-Lebanon Mountains
Natural resources:
    limestone, iron ore, salt; water-surplus state in a water-deficit region
Land use:
    arable land 21%; permanent crops 9%; meadows and pastures 1%; forest and
    woodland 8%; other 61%; includes irrigated 7%
Environment:
    rugged terrain historically helped isolate, protect, and develop numerous
    factional groups based on religion, clan, ethnicity; deforestation; soil
    erosion; air and water pollution; desertification
Note:
    Nahr al Litani only major river in Near East not crossing an international
    boundary

:Lebanon People

Population:
    3,439,115 (July 1992), growth rate 1.6% (1992)
Birth rate:
    28 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    7 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    -5 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    43 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    66 years male, 71 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    3.6 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Lebanese (singular and plural); adjective - Lebanese
Ethnic divisions:
    Arab 95%, Armenian 4%, other 1%
Religions:
    Islam 75%, Christian 25%, Judaism NEGL%; 17 legally recognized groups - 5
    Islam (Alawite or Nusayri, Druze, Isma`ilite, Shi`a, Sunni); 11 Christian,
    consisting of 4 Orthodox Christian (Armenian Orthodox, Greek Orthodox,
    Nestorean, Syriac Orthodox), 6 Catholic (Armenian Catholic, Caldean, Greek
    Catholic, Maronite, Roman Catholic, and Syrian Catholic) and the
    Protestants; 1 Jewish
Languages:
    Arabic and French (both official); Armenian, English
Literacy:
    80% (male 88%, female 73%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    650,000; industry, commerce, and services 79%, agriculture 11%, government
    10% (1985)
Organized labor:
    250,000 members (est.)

:Lebanon Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Lebanon; note - may be changed to Lebanese Republic
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Beirut
Administrative divisions:
    5 governorates (muhafazat, singular - muhafazah); Al Biqa, `Al Janub, Ash
    Shamal, Bayrut, Jabal Lubnan
Independence:
    22 November 1943 (from League of Nations mandate under French
    administration)
Constitution:
    26 May 1926 (amended)
Legal system:
    mixture of Ottoman law, canon law, Napoleonic code, and civil law; no
    judicial review of legislative acts; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
    jurisdiction
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 22 November (1943)
Executive branch:
    president, prime minister, Cabinet; note - by custom, the president is a
    Maronite Christian, the prime minister is a Sunni Muslim, and the speaker of
    the legislature is a Shi`a Muslim
Legislative branch:
    unicameral National Assembly (Arabic - Majlis Alnuwab, French - Assemblee
    Nationale)
Judicial branch:
    four Courts of Cassation (three courts for civil and commercial cases and
    one court for criminal cases)
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Ilyas HARAWI (since 24 November 1989)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Rashid SULH (since 13 May 1992)
Political parties and leaders:
    political party activity is organized along largely sectarian lines;
    numerous political groupings exist, consisting of individual political
    figures and followers motivated by religious, clan, and economic
    considerations; most parties have well-armed militias, which are still
    involved in occasional clashes
Suffrage:
    compulsory for all males at age 21; authorized for women at age 21 with
    elementary education
Elections:
  National Assembly:
    elections should be held every four years, but security conditions have
    prevented elections since May 1972; in June 1991, the Cabinet appointed 40
    new deputies to fill vacancies and balance Christian and Muslim
    representation; the legislature's mandate expires in 1994
Communists:
    the Lebanese Communist Party was legalized in 1970; members and sympathizers
    estimated at 2,000-3,000
Member of:
    ABEDA, ACCT, AFESD, AL, AMF, CCC, ESCWA, FAO, G-24, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
    ICC, ICFTU, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC,
    ITU, LORCS, NAM, OIC, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNRWA, UPU,
    WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

:Lebanon Government

Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador - no ambassador at present; Mission is headed by Charge; Chancery
    at 2560 28th Street NW, Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 939-6300;
    there are Lebanese Consulates General in Detroit, New York, and Los Angeles
  US:
    Ambassador Ryan C. CROCKER; Embassy at Antelias, Beirut (mailing address is
    P. O. Box 70-840, Beirut, or Box B, FPO AE 09836); telephone [961] 417774 or
    415802, 415803, 402200, 403300
Flag:
    three horizontal bands of red (top), white (double width), and red with a
    green and brown cedar tree centered in the white band

:Lebanon Government

Note:
    Between early 1975 and late 1976 Lebanon was torn by civil war between its
    Christians - then aided by Syrian troops - and its Muslims and their
    Palestinian allies. The cease-fire established in October 1976 between the
    domestic political groups generally held for about six years, despite
    occasional fighting. Syrian troops constituted as the Arab Deterrent Force
    by the Arab League have remained in Lebanon. Syria's move toward supporting
    the Lebanese Muslims, and the Palestinians and Israel's growing support for
    Lebanese Christians, brought the two sides into rough equilibrium, but no
    progress was made toward national reconciliation or political reforms - the
    original cause of the war. Continuing Israeli concern about the Palestinian
    presence in Lebanon led to the Israeli invasion of Lebanon in June 1982.
    Israeli forces occupied all of the southern portion of the country and
    mounted a summer-long siege of Beirut, which resulted in the evacuation of
    the PLO from Beirut in September under the supervision of a multinational
    force (MNF) made up of US, French, and Italian troops. Within days of the
    departure of the MNF, Lebanon's newly elected president, Bashir Gemayel, was
    assassinated; his elder brother Amin was elected to succeed him. In the
    immediate wake of Bashir's death, however, Christian militiamen massacred
    hundreds of Palestinian refugees in two Beirut camps. This prompted the
    return of the MNF to ease the security burden on Lebanon's weak Army and
    security forces. In late March 1984 the last MNF units withdrew. In 1988,
    President Gemayel completed his term of office. Because parliamentarians
    failed to elect a presidential successor, Gemayel appointed then Lebanese
    Armed Forces (LAF) Commander Gen. Michel Awn acting president. Lebanese
    parliamentarians met in Ta'if, Saudi Arabia, in late 1989 and concluded a
    national reconciliation pact that codified a new power-sharing formula,
    specifying reduced powers for the Christian president and giving Muslims
    more authority. Rene MUAWAD was subsequently elected president on 4 November
    1989, ending a 13-month period during which Lebanon had no president and
    rival Muslim and Christian governments. MUAWAD was assassinated 17 days
    later, on 22 November; on 24 November, Ilyas Harawi was elected to succeed
    MUAWAD. In October 1990, the civil war was apparently brought to a
    conclusion when Syrian and Lebanese forces ousted renegade Christian General
    Awn from his stronghold in East Beirut. Awn had defied the legitimate
    government and established a separate ministate within East Beirut after
    being appointed acting Prime Minister by outgoing President Gemayel in 1988.
    Awn and his supporters feared Ta'if would diminish Christian power in
    Lebanon and increase the influence of Syria. Awn was granted amnesty and
    allowed to travel in France in August 199l. Since the removal of Awn, the
    Lebanese Government has made substantial progress in strengthening the
    central government, rebuilding government institutions, and extending its
    authority throughout the nation. The LAF has deployed from Beirut north
    along the coast road to Tripoli, southeast into the Shuf mountains, and
    south to Sidon and Tyre. Many militiamen from Christian and Muslim groups
    have evacuated Beirut for their strongholds in the north, south, and east of
    the country. Some heavy weapons possessed by the militias have been turned
    over to the government, or sold outside the country, which has begun a plan
    to integrate some militiamen into the military and the internal security
    forces. Lebanon and Syria signed a treaty of friendship and cooperation in
    May 1991. Lebanon continues to be partially occupied by Syrian troops, which
    are deployed in Beirut, its southern suburbs, the Bekaa Valley, and northern
    Lebanon. Iran also maintains a small contingent of revolutionary guards in
    the Bekaa Valley to support Lebanese Islamic fundamentalist groups. Israel
    withdrew the bulk of its forces from the south in 1985, although it still
    retains troops in a 10-km-deep security zone north of its border with
    Lebanon. Israel arms and trains the Army of South Lebanon (ASL), which also
    occupies the security zone and is Israel's first line of defense against
    attacks on its northern border. The following description is based on the
    present constitutional and customary practices of the Lebanese system.

:Lebanon Economy

Overview:
    Since 1975 civil war has seriously damaged Lebanon's economic
    infrastructure, cut national output by half, and all but ended Lebanon's
    position as a Middle Eastern entrepot and banking hub. Following October
    1990, however, a tentative peace has enabled the central government to begin
    restoring control in Beirut, collect taxes, and regain access to key port
    and government facilities. The battered economy has also been propped up by
    a financially sound banking system and resilient small- and medium-scale
    manufacturers. Family remittances, banking transactions, manufactured and
    farm exports, the narcotics trade, and international emergency aid are main
    sources of foreign exchange. In the relatively settled year of 1991,
    industrial production, agricultural output, and exports showed substantial
    gains. The further rebuilding of the war-ravaged country could provide a
    major stimulus to the economy in 1992, provided that the political and
    military situation remains reasonably calm.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $4.8 billion, per capita $1,400; real growth rate
    NA (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    30% (1991)
Unemployment rate:
    35% (1991 est.)
Budget:
    revenues $533 million; expenditures $1.3 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $NA (1991 est.)
Exports:
    $700 million (f.o.b., 1990 est.)
  commodities:
    agricultural products, chemicals, textiles, precious and semiprecious metals
    and jewelry, metals and metal products
  partners:
    Saudi Arabia 16%, Switzerland 8%, Jordan 6%, Kuwait 6%, US 5%
Imports:
    $1.8 billion (c.i.f., 1990 est.)
  commodities:
    NA
  partners:
    Italy 14%, France 12%, US 6%, Turkey 5%, Saudi Arabia 3%
External debt:
    $900 million (1990 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate NA%
Electricity:
    1,381,000 kW capacity; 3,870 million kWh produced, 1,170 kWh per capita
    (1989)
Industries:
    banking, food processing, textiles, cement, oil refining, chemicals,
    jewelry, some metal fabricating
Agriculture:
    accounts for about one-third of GDP; principal products - citrus fruits,
    vegetables, potatoes, olives, tobacco, hemp (hashish), sheep, and goats; not
    self-sufficient in grain
Illicit drugs:
    illicit producer of opium and hashish for the international drug trade;
    opium poppy production in Al Biqa` is increasing; hashish production is
    shipped to Western Europe, Israel, US, and the Middle East

:Lebanon Economy

Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-88), $356 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $664 million; OPEC
    bilateral aid (1979-89), $962 million; Communist countries (1970-89), $9
    million
Currency:
    Lebanese pound (plural - pounds); 1 Lebanese pound (#L) = 100 piasters
Exchange rates:
    Lebanese pounds (#L) per US$1 - 879.00 (January 1992), 928.23 (1991), 695.09
    (1990), 496.69 (1989), 409.23 (1988), 224.60 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Lebanon Communications

Railroads:
    system in disrepair, considered inoperable
Highways:
    7,300 km total; 6,200 km paved, 450 km gravel and crushed stone, 650 km
    improved earth
Pipelines:
    crude oil 72 km (none in operation)
Ports:
    Beirut, Tripoli, Ra'Sil`ata, Juniyah, Sidon, Az Zahrani, Tyre
Merchant marine:
    56 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 236,196 GRT/346,760 DWT; includes 36
    cargo, 1 refrigerated cargo, 2 vehicle carrier, 2 roll-on/roll-off, 1
    container, 8 livestock carrier, 1 chemical tanker, 1 specialized tanker, 3
    bulk, 1 combination bulk
Civil air:
    19 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    9 total, 8 usable; 6 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways over
    3,659 m; 3 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 2 with runways 1,220-2,439 m; none
    under the direct control of the Lebanese Government
Telecommunications:
    rebuilding program disrupted; had fair system of microwave relay, cable;
    325,000 telephones; broadcast stations - 5 AM, 3 FM (numerous AM and FM
    radio stations are operated inconsistently by various factions), 13 TV; 1
    Indian Ocean INTELSAT and 1 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT satellite earth station,
    erratic operations; 3 submarine coaxial cables; radio relay to Jordan
    inoperable, but operational to Syria, coaxial cable to Syria

:Lebanon Defense Forces

Branches:
    Lebanese Armed Forces (LAF) (including Army, Navy, and Air Force)
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 750,319; 465,938 fit for military service
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $271 million, 8.2% of GDP (1992 budget)

:Lesotho Geography

Total area:
    30,350 km2
Land area:
    30,350 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than Maryland
Land boundaries:
    909 km; South Africa 909 km
Coastline:
    none - landlocked
Maritime claims:
    none - landlocked
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    temperate; cool to cold, dry winters; hot, wet summers
Terrain:
    mostly highland with some plateaus, hills, and mountains
Natural resources:
    some diamonds and other minerals, water, agricultural and grazing land
Land use:
    arable land 10%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 66%; forest and
    woodland 0%; other 24%
Environment:
    population pressure forcing settlement in marginal areas results in
    overgrazing, severe soil erosion, soil exhaustion; desertification
Note:
    landlocked; surrounded by South Africa; Highlands Water Project will
    control, store, and redirect water to South Africa

:Lesotho People

Population:
    1,848,925 (July 1992), growth rate 2.6% (1992)
Birth rate:
    35 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    10 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    74 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    60 years male, 63 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    4.7 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Mosotho (singular), Basotho (plural); adjective - Basotho
Ethnic divisions:
    Sotho 99.7%; Europeans 1,600, Asians 800
Religions:
    Christian 80%, rest indigenous beliefs
Languages:
    Sesotho (southern Sotho) and English (official); also Zulu and Xhosa
Literacy:
    59% (male 44%, female 68%) age 15 and over can read and write (1966)
Labor force:
    689,000 economically active; 86.2% of resident population engaged in
    subsistence agriculture; roughly 60% of active male labor force works in
    South Africa
Organized labor:
    there are two trade union federations; the government favors formation of a
    single, umbrella trade union confederation

:Lesotho Government

Long-form name:
    Kingdom of Lesotho
Type:
    constitutional monarchy
Capital:
    Maseru
Administrative divisions:
    10 districts; Berea, Butha-Buthe, Leribe, Mafeteng, Maseru, Mohale's Hoek,
    Mokhotlong, Qacha's Nek, Quthing, Thaba-Tseka
Independence:
    4 October 1966 (from UK; formerly Basutoland)
Constitution:
    4 October 1966, suspended January 1970
Legal system:
    based on English common law and Roman-Dutch law; judicial review of
    legislative acts in High Court and Court of Appeal; has not accepted
    compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 4 October (1966)
Executive branch:
    monarch, chairman of the Military Council, Military Council, Council of
    Ministers (cabinet)
Legislative branch:
    none - the bicameral Parliament was dissolved following the military coup in
    January 1986; note - a National Constituent Assembly convened in June 1990
    to rewrite the constitution and debate issues of national importance, but it
    has no legislative authority
Judicial branch:
    High Court, Court of Appeal
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    King LETSIE III (since 12 November 1990 following dismissal of his father,
    exiled King MOSHOESHOE II, by Maj. Gen. LEKHANYA)
  Head of Government:
    Chairman of the Military Council Col. Elias Phisoana RAMAEMA (since 30 April
    1991)
Political parties and leaders:
    Basotho National Party (BNP), Evaristus SEKHONYANA; Basutoland Congress
    Party (BCP), Ntsu MOKHEHLE; National Independent Party (NIP), A. C. MANYELI;
    Marematlou Freedom Party (MFP), Bernard M. KHAKETLA; United Democratic
    Party, Charles MOFELI; Communist Party of Lesotho (CPL), J. M. KENA
Suffrage:
    universal at age 21
Elections:
  National Assembly:
    dissolved following the military coup in January 1986; military has pledged
    elections will take place in June 1992
Member of:
    ACP, AfDB, C, CCC, ECA, FAO, G-77, GATT, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, IDA, IFAD, IFC,
    ILO, IMF, INTERPOL, IOC, ITU, LORCS, NAM, OAU, SACU, SADCC, UN, UNCTAD,
    UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Tseliso THAMAE; Chancery at 2511 Massachusetts Avenue NW,
    Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 797-5534
  US:
    Ambassador Leonard H.O. SPEARMAN, Sr.; Embassy at address NA, Maseru
    (mailing address is P. O. Box 333, Maseru 100 Lesotho); telephone [266]
    312-666; FAX (266) 310-116

:Lesotho Government

Flag:
    divided diagonally from the lower hoist side corner; the upper half is white
    bearing the brown silhouette of a large shield with crossed spear and club;
    the lower half is a diagonal blue band with a green triangle in the corner

:Lesotho Economy

Overview:
    Small, landlocked, and mountainous, Lesotho has no important natural
    resources other than water. Its economy is based on agriculture, light
    manufacturing, and remittances from laborers employed in South Africa ($153
    million in 1989). The great majority of households gain their livelihoods
    from subsistence farming and migrant labor. Manufacturing depends largely on
    farm products to support the milling, canning, leather, and jute industries;
    other industries include textile, clothing, and light engineering.
    Industry's share of GDP rose from 6% in 1982 to 15% in 1989. Political and
    economic instability in South Africa raises uncertainty for Lesotho's
    economy, especially with respect to migrant worker remittances - typically
    about 40% of GDP.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $420 million, per capita $240; real growth rate
    4.0% (1990 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    15% (1990 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    at least 55% among adult males (1991 est.)
Budget:
    expenditures $399 million, including capital expenditures of $132 million
    (FY92-93)
Exports:
    $59 million (f.o.b., 1990)
  commodities:
    wool, mohair, wheat, cattle, peas, beans, corn, hides, skins, baskets
  partners:
    South Africa 53%, EC 30%, North and South America 13% (1989)
Imports:
    $604 million (f.o.b., 1990)
  commodities:
    mainly corn, building materials, clothing, vehicles, machinery, medicines,
    petroleum
  partners:
    South Africa 95%, EC 2% (1989)
External debt:
    $370 million (December 1990 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 7.8% (1989 est.); accounts for 15% of GDP
Electricity:
    power supplied by South Africa
Industries:
    food, beverages, textiles, handicrafts, tourism
Agriculture:
    accounts for 18% of GDP and employs 60-70% of all households; exceedingly
    primitive, mostly subsistence farming and livestock; principal crops are
    corn, wheat, pulses, sorghum, barley
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $268 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $819 million; OPEC
    bilateral aid (1979-89), $4 million; Communist countries (1970-89), $14
    million
Currency:
    loti (plural - maloti); 1 loti (L) = 100 lisente
Exchange rates:
    maloti (M) per US$1 - 2.8809 (March 1992), 2.7563 (1991), 2.5863 (1990),
    2.6166 (1989), 2.2611 (1988), 2.0350 (1987); note - the Basotho loti is at
    par with the South African rand

:Lesotho Economy

Fiscal year:
    1 April - 31 March

:Lesotho Communications

Railroads:
    2.6 km; owned, operated by, and included in the statistics of South Africa
Highways:
    7,215 km total; 572 km paved; 2,337 km crushed stone, gravel, or stabilized
    soil; 1,806 km improved earth, 2,500 km unimproved earth (1988)
Civil air:
    1 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    28 total, 28 usable; 3 with permanent surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 1 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 2 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    rudimentary system consisting of a few landlines, a small microwave system,
    and minor radio communications stations; 5,920 telephones; broadcast
    stations - 3 AM, 2 FM, 1 TV; 1 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT earth station

:Lesotho Defense Forces

Branches:
    Royal Lesotho Defense Force (RLDF; including Army, Air Wing), Royal Lesotho
    Mounted Police
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 408,003; 220,129 fit for military service
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $55 million, 13.1% of GDP (1990 est.)

:Liberia Geography

Total area:
    111,370 km2
Land area:
    96,320 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than Tennessee
Land boundaries:
    1,585 km; Guinea 563 km, Ivory Coast 716 km, Sierra Leone 306 km
Coastline:
    579 km
Maritime claims:
  Continental shelf:
    200 m (depth) or to depth of exploitation
  Territorial sea:
    200 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    tropical; hot, humid; dry winters with hot days and cool to cold nights;
    wet, cloudy summers with frequent heavy showers
Terrain:
    mostly flat to rolling coastal plains rising to rolling plateau and low
    mountains in northeast
Natural resources:
    iron ore, timber, diamonds, gold
Land use:
    arable land 1%; permanent crops 3%; meadows and pastures 2%; forest and
    woodland 39%; other 55%; includes irrigated NEGL%
Environment:
    West Africa's largest tropical rain forest, subject to deforestation

:Liberia People

Population:
    2,462,276 (July 1992), growth rate 29.6% (1992)
Birth rate:
    44 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    13 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    265 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    119 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    54 years male, 59 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    6.5 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Liberian(s); adjective - Liberian
Ethnic divisions:
    indigenous African tribes, including Kpelle, Bassa, Gio, Kru, Grebo, Mano,
    Krahn, Gola, Gbandi, Loma, Kissi, Vai, and Bella 95%; descendants of
    repatriated slaves known as Americo-Liberians 5%
Religions:
    traditional 70%, Muslim 20%, Christian 10%
Languages:
    English (official); more than 20 local languages of the Niger-Congo language
    group; English used by about 20%
Literacy:
    40% (male 50%, female 29%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    510,000, including 220,000 in the monetary economy; agriculture 70.5%,
    services 10.8%, industry and commerce 4.5%, other 14.2%; non-African
    foreigners hold about 95% of the top-level management and engineering jobs;
    52% of population of working age
Organized labor:
    2% of labor force

:Liberia Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Liberia
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Monrovia
Administrative divisions:
    13 counties; Bomi, Bong, Grand Bassa, Cape Mount, Grand Gedeh, Grand Kru,
    Lofa, Margibi, Maryland, Montserrado, Nimba, River Cess, Sinoe
Independence:
    26 July 1847
Constitution:
    6 January 1986
Legal system:
    dual system of statutory law based on Anglo-American common law for the
    modern sector and customary law based on unwritten tribal practices for
    indigenous sector
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 26 July (1847)
Executive branch:
    president, vice president, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    bicameral National Assembly consists of an upper house or Senate and a lower
    house or House of Representatives
Judicial branch:
    People's Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State and Head of Government:
    interim President Dr. Amos SAWYER (since 15 November 1990); Vice President,
    vacant (since August 1991); note - this is an interim government appointed
    by the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) that will be
    replaced after elections are held under a West African - brokered peace
    plan; rival rebel factions led by Prince Y. JOHNSON and Charles TAYLOR are
    challenging the SAWYER government's legitimacy while observing a tenuous
    cease-fire; the former president, Gen. Dr. Samuel Kanyon DOE, was killed on
    9 September 1990 by Prince Y. JOHNSON
Political parties and leaders:
    National Democratic Party of Liberia (NDPL), Augustus CAINE, chairman;
    Liberian Action Party (LAP), Emmanuel KOROMAH, chairman; Unity Party (UP),
    Carlos SMITH, chairman; United People's Party (UPP), Gabriel Baccus
    MATTHEWS, chairman
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  President:
    last held on 15 October 1985 (next to be held NA); results - Gen. Dr. Samuel
    Kanyon DOE (NDPL) 50.9%, Jackson DOE (LAP) 26.4%, other 22.7%; note -
    President Doe was killed by rebel forces on 9 September 1990
  Senate:
    last held on 15 October 1985 (next to be held NA); results - percent of vote
    by party NA; seats - (26 total) NDPL 21, LAP 3, UP 1, UPP 1
  House of Representatives:
    last held on 15 October 1985 (next to be held NA); results - percent of vote
    by party NA; seats - (64 total) NDPL 51, LAP 8, UP 3, UPP 2
Member of:
    ACP, AfDB, CCC, ECA, ECOWAS, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, IDA, IFAD,
    IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INMARSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, ITU, LORCS, NAM, OAU, UN,
    UNCTAD, UNESCO, UPU, WCL, WHO, WIPO, WMO

:Liberia Government

Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Eugenia A. WORDSWORTH-STEVENSON; Chancery at 5201 16th Street NW,
    Washington, DC 20011; telephone (202) 723-0437 through 0440; there is a
    Liberian Consulate General in New York
  US:
    Ambassador Peter J. de VOS; Embassy at 111 United Nations Drive, Monrovia
    (mailing address is P. O. Box 98, Monrovia, or APO AE 09813; telephone [231]
    222991 through 222994; FAX (231) 223-710
Flag:
    11 equal horizontal stripes of red (top and bottom) alternating with white;
    there is a white five-pointed star on a blue square in the upper hoist-side
    corner; the design was based on the US flag

:Liberia Economy

Overview:
    Civil war during 1990 destroyed much of Liberia's economy, especially the
    infrastructure in and around Monrovia. Expatriate businessmen fled the
    country, taking capital and expertise with them. Many will not return.
    Richly endowed with water, mineral resources, forests, and a climate
    favorable to agriculture, Liberia had been a producer and exporter of basic
    products, while local manufacturing, mainly foreign owned, had been small in
    scope. Political instability threatens prospects for economic reconstruction
    and repatriation of some 750,000 Liberian refugees who fled to neighboring
    countries. In 1991, the political impasse between the interim government and
    the rebel leader Charles Taylor prevented restoration of normal economic
    life.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $988 million, per capita $400; real growth rate
    1.5% (1988)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    12% (1989)
Unemployment rate:
    43% urban (1988)
Budget:
    revenues $242.1 million; expenditures $435.4 million, including capital
    expenditures of $29.5 million (1989)
Exports:
    $505 million (f.o.b., 1989 est.)
  commodities:
    iron ore 61%, rubber 20%, timber 11%, coffee
  partners:
    US, EC, Netherlands
Imports:
    $394 million (c.i.f., 1989 est.)
  commodities:
    rice, mineral fuels, chemicals, machinery, transportation equipment, other
    foodstuffs
  partners:
    US, EC, Japan, China, Netherlands, ECOWAS
External debt:
    $1.6 billion (December 1990 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 1.5% in manufacturing (1987); accounts for 22% of GDP
Electricity:
    410,000 kW capacity; 750 million kWh produced, 275 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    rubber processing, food processing, construction materials, furniture, palm
    oil processing, mining (iron ore, diamonds)
Agriculture:
    accounts for about 40% of GDP (including fishing and forestry); principal
    products - rubber, timber, coffee, cocoa, rice, cassava, palm oil,
    sugarcane, bananas, sheep, and goats; not self-sufficient in food, imports
    25% of rice consumption
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $665 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $870 million; OPEC
    bilateral aid (1979-89), $25 million; Communist countries (1970-89), $77
    million
Currency:
    Liberian dollar (plural - dollars); 1 Liberian dollar (L$) = 100 cents
Exchange rates:
    Liberian dollars (L$) per US$1 - 1.00 (fixed rate since 1940); unofficial
    parallel exchange rate of L$7 = US$1, January 1992

:Liberia Economy

Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Liberia Communications

Railroads:
    480 km total; 328 km 1.435-meter standard gauge, 152 km 1.067-meter narrow
    gauge; all lines single track; rail systems owned and operated by foreign
    steel and financial interests in conjunction with Liberian Government
Highways:
    10,087 km total; 603 km bituminous treated, 2,848 km all weather, 4,313 km
    dry weather; there are also 2,323 km of private, laterite-surfaced roads
    open to public use, owned by rubber and timber companies
Ports:
    Monrovia, Buchanan, Greenville, Harper (or Cape Palmas)
Merchant marine:
    1,564 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 54,049,124 DWT/ 95,338,925 DWT;
    includes 19 passenger, 1 short-sea passenger, 145 cargo, 51 refrigerated
    cargo, 22 roll-on/roll-off, 62 vehicle carrier, 89 container, 4 barge
    carrier, 460 petroleum tanker, 105 chemical, 57 combination ore/oil, 50
    liquefied gas, 6 specialized tanker, 465 bulk, 1 multifunction large-load
    carrier, 27 combination bulk; note - a flag of convenience registry; all
    ships are foreign owned; the top 4 owning flags are US 18%, Japan 16%, Hong
    Kong 10%, and Norway 9%
Civil air:
    1 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    66 total, 49 usable; 2 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 1 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 4 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    telephone and telegraph service via radio relay network; main center is
    Monrovia; broadcast stations - 3 AM, 4 FM, 5 TV; 1 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT
    earth stations; most telecommunications services inoperable due to
    insurgency movement

:Liberia Defense Forces

Branches:
    Monrovia-based Armed Forces of Liberia (Army only) along with a police
    force; rest of country controlled by the army of the National Patriotic
    Front of Liberia (NPFL) insurgent group
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 585,224; 312,420 fit for military service; no conscription
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $NA, NA% of GDP

:Libya Geography

Total area:
    1,759,540 km2
Land area:
    1,759,540 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than Alaska
Land boundaries:
    4,383 km; Algeria 982 km, Chad 1,055 km, Egypt 1,150 km, Niger 354 km, Sudan
    383 km, Tunisia 459 km
Coastline:
    1,770 km
Maritime claims:
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
  Gulf of Sidra closing line:
    32 degrees 30 minutes N
Disputes:
    claims and occupies the 100,000 km2 Aozou Strip in northern Chad; maritime
    boundary dispute with Tunisia; Libya claims about 19,400 km2 in northern
    Niger; Libya claims about 19,400 km2 in southeastern Algeria
Climate:
    Mediterranean along coast; dry, extreme desert interior
Terrain:
    mostly barren, flat to undulating plains, plateaus, depressions
Natural resources:
    crude oil, natural gas, gypsum
Land use:
    arable land 1%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 8%; forest and
    woodland 0%; other 91%; includes irrigated NEGL%
Environment:
    hot, dry, dust-laden ghibli is a southern wind lasting one to four days in
    spring and fall; desertification; sparse natural surface-water resources
Note:
    the Great Manmade River Project, the largest water development scheme in the
    world, is being built to bring water from large aquifers under the Sahara to
    coastal cities

:Libya People

Population:
    4,484,795 (July 1992), growth rate 3.0% (1992)
Birth rate:
    36 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    6 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    60 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    66 years male, 71 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    4.9 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Libyan(s); adjective - Libyan
Ethnic divisions:
    Berber and Arab 97%; some Greeks, Maltese, Italians, Egyptians, Pakistanis,
    Turks, Indians, and Tunisians
Religions:
    Sunni Muslim 97%
Languages:
    Arabic; Italian and English widely understood in major cities
Literacy:
    64% (male 75%, female 50%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    1,000,000, includes about 280,000 resident foreigners; industry 31%,
    services 27%, government 24%, agriculture 18%
Organized labor:
    National Trade Unions' Federation, 275,000 members; General Union for Oil
    and Petrochemicals; Pan-Africa Federation of Petroleum Energy and Allied
    Workers

:Libya Government

Long-form name:
    Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya
Digraph:
    Tripoli Administration divisions *** 25 municipalities (baladiyah, singular
    - baladiyat; Ajdabiya, Al `Aziziyah, Al Fatih, Al Jabal al Akhdar, Al
    Jufrah, Al Khums, Al Kufrah, An Nuqat al Khams, Ash Shati', Awbari, Az
    Zawiyah, Banghazi, Darnah, Ghadamis, Gharyan, Misratah, Murzuq, Sabha,
    Sawfajjin, Surt, Tarabulus, Tarhunah, Tubruq, Yafran, Zlitan
Type:
    Jamahiriya (a state of the masses); in theory, governed by the populace
    through local councils; in fact, a military dictatorship
Capital:
    Tripoli Administration divisions
Administrative divisions:
    25 municipalities (baladiyah, singular - baladiyat; Ajdabiya, Al 'Aziziyah,
    Al Fatih, Al Jabal al Akhdar, Al Jufrah, Al Khums, Al Kufrah, An Nuqat al
    Khams, Ash Shati', Awbari, Az Zawiyah, Banghazi, Darnah, Ghadamis, Gharyan,
    Misratah, Murzuq Sabha, Sawfajjin, Surt, Tarabulus, Tarhunah, Tubruq,
    Yafran, Zlitan
Independence:
    24 December 1951 (from Italy)
Constitution:
    11 December 1969, amended 2 March 1977
Legal system:
    based on Italian civil law system and Islamic law; separate religious
    courts; no constitutional provision for judicial review of legislative acts;
    has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
National holiday:
    Revolution Day, 1 September (1969)
Executive branch:
    revolutionary leader, chairman of the General People's Committee (premier),
    General People's Committee (cabinet)
Legislative branch:
    unicameral General People's Congress
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Revolutionary Leader Col. Mu`ammar Abu Minyar al-QADHAFI (since 1 September
    1969)
  Head of Government:
    Chairman of the General People's Committee (Premier) Abu Zayd `umar DURDA
    (since 7 October 1990)
Political parties and leaders:
    none
Suffrage:
    universal and compulsory at age 18
Elections:
    national elections are indirect through a hierarchy of peoples' committees
Other political or pressure groups:
    various Arab nationalist movements and the Arab Socialist Resurrection
    (Ba'th) party with almost negligible memberships may be functioning
    clandestinely, as well as some Islamic elements
Member of:
    ABEDA, AfDB, AFESD, AL, AMF, AMU, CAEU, CCC, ECA, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD,
    ICAO, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, ITU,
    LORCS, NAM, OAPEC, OAU, OIC, OPEC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WHO,
    WIPO, WMO, WTO

:Libya Government

Diplomatic representation:
    none
Flag:
    plain green; green is the traditional color of Islam (the state religion)

:Libya Economy

Overview:
    The socialist-oriented economy depends primarily upon revenues from the oil
    sector, which contributes practically all export earnings and about
    one-third of GDP. Since 1980, however, the sharp drop in oil prices and the
    resulting decline in export revenues have adversely affected economic
    development. In 1988 per capita GDP was the highest in Africa at $5,410, but
    GDP growth rates have slowed and fluctuate sharply in response to changes in
    the world oil market. Import restrictions and inefficient resource
    allocations have led to shortages of basic goods and foodstuffs, although
    the reopening of the Libyan-Tunisian border in April 1988 and the
    Libyan-Egyptian border in December 1989 have somewhat eased shortages.
    Austerity budgets and a lack of trained technicians have undermined the
    government's ability to implement a number of planned infrastructure
    development projects. Windfall revenues from the hike in world oil prices in
    late 1990 improved the foreign payments position and resulted in a current
    account surplus for the first time in five years. The nonoil manufacturing
    and construction sectors, which account for about 22% of GDP, have expanded
    from processing mostly agricultural products to include petrochemicals,
    iron, steel, and aluminum. Although agriculture accounts for about 5% of
    GDP, it employs about 20% of the labor force. Climatic conditions and poor
    soils severely limit farm output, and Libya imports about 75% of its food
    requirements.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $28.9 billion, per capita $6,800; real growth
    rate 9% (1990 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    7% (1991 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    2% (1988 est.)
Budget:
    revenues $8.1 billion; expenditures $9.8 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $3.1 billion (1989 est.)
Exports:
    $11 billion (f.o.b., 1990 est.)
  commodities:
    petroleum, peanuts, hides
  partners:
    Italy, USSR, Germany, Spain, France, Belgium/Luxembourg, Turkey
Imports:
    $7.6 billion (f.o.b., 1990 est.)
  commodities:
    machinery, transport equipment, food, manufactured goods
  partners:
    Italy, USSR, Germany, UK, Japan
External debt:
    $3.5 billion, excluding military debt (1991 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate - 4%; accounts for 22% of GDP (not including oil) (1989)
Electricity:
    4,700,000 kW capacity; 13,700 million kWh produced, 3,100 kWh per capita
    (1991)
Industries:
    petroleum, food processing, textiles, handicrafts, cement
Agriculture:
    5% of GNP; cash crops - wheat, barley, olives, dates, citrus fruits,
    peanuts; 75% of food is imported
Economic aid:
    Western (non-US) countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-87),
    $242 million; no longer a recipient

:Libya Economy

Currency:
    Libyan dinar (plural - dinars); 1 Libyan dinar (LD) = 1,000 dirhams
Exchange rates:
    Libyan dinars (LD) per US$1 - 0.2743 (March 1992), 0.2669 (1991), 0.2699
    (1990), 0.2922 (1989), 0.2853 (1988), 0.2706 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Libya Communications

Pipelines:
    crude oil 4,383 km; natural gas 1,947 km; petroleum products 443 km
    (includes liquid petroleum gas 256 km)
Ports:
    Tobruk, Tripoli, Banghazi, Misratah, Marsa al Burayqah, Ra's Lanuf
Merchant marine:
    30 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 684,969 GRT/1,209,084 DWT; includes 3
    short-sea passenger, 11 cargo, 4 roll-on/roll-off, 10 petroleum tanker, 1
    chemical tanker, 1 liquefied gas
Civil air:
    59 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    133 total, 120 usable; 53 with permanent-surface runways; 9 with runways
    over 3,659 m; 28 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 46 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    modern telecommunications system using radio relay, coaxial cable,
    tropospheric scatter, and domestic satellite stations; 370,000 telephones;
    broadcast stations - 17 AM, 3 FM, 12 TV; satellite earth stations - 1
    Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT, 1 Indian Ocean INTELSAT, and 14 domestic; submarine
    cables to France and Italy; radio relay to Tunisia and Egypt; tropospheric
    scatter to Greece; planned ARABSAT and Intersputnik satellite stations

:Libya Defense Forces

Branches:
    Armed Peoples of the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya (including Army, Navy, Air and
    Air Defense Command), National Police
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 1,056,686; 624,027 fit for military service; 50,916 reach
    military age (17) annually; conscription now being implemented
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $NA, 11.1% of GDP (1987)

:Liechtenstein Geography

Total area:
    160 km2
Land area:
    160 km2
Comparative area:
    about 0.9 times the size of Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    78 km; Austria 37 km, Switzerland 41 km
Coastline:
    none - landlocked
Maritime claims:
    none - landlocked
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    continental; cold, cloudy winters with frequent snow or rain; cool to
    moderately warm, cloudy, humid summers
Terrain:
    mostly mountainous (Alps) with Rhine Valley in western third
Natural resources:
    hydroelectric potential
Land use:
    arable land 25%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 38%; forest and
    woodland 19%; other 18%
Environment:
    variety of microclimatic variations based on elevation
Note:
    landlocked

:Liechtenstein People

Population:
    28,642 (July 1992), growth rate 0.6% (1992)
Birth rate:
    13 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    7 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    5 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    74 years male, 81 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    1.5 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Liechtensteiner(s); adjective - Liechtenstein
Ethnic divisions:
    Alemannic 95%, Italian and other 5%
Religions:
    Roman Catholic 87.3%, Protestant 8.3%, unknown 1.6%, other 2.8% (1988)
Languages:
    German (official), Alemannic dialect
Literacy:
    100% (male 100%, female 100%) age 10 and over can read and write (1981)
Labor force:
    19,905, of which 11,933 are foreigners; 6,885 commute from Austria and
    Switzerland to work each day; industry, trade, and building 53.2%, services
    45%, agriculture, fishing, forestry, and horticulture 1.8% (1990)
Organized labor:
    NA

:Liechtenstein Government

Long-form name:
    Principality of Liechtenstein
Type:
    hereditary constitutional monarchy
Capital:
    Vaduz
Administrative divisions:
    11 communes (gemeinden, singular - gemeinde); Balzers, Eschen, Gamprin,
    Mauren, Planken, Ruggell, Schaan, Schellenberg, Triesen, Triesenberg, Vaduz
Independence:
    23 January 1719, Imperial Principality of Liechtenstein established
Constitution:
    5 October 1921
Legal system:
    local civil and penal codes; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with
    reservations
National holiday:
    Assumption Day, 15 August
Executive branch:
    reigning prince, hereditary prince, head of government, deputy head of
    government
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Diet (Landtag)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court (Oberster Gerichtshof) for criminal cases and Superior Court
    (Obergericht) for civil cases
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Prince Hans ADAM II (since 13 November 1989; assumed executive powers 26
    August 1984); Heir Apparent Prince ALOIS von und zu Liechtenstein (born 11
    June 1968)
  Head of Government:
    Hans BRUNHART (since 26 April 1978); Deputy Head of Government Dr. Herbert
    WILLE (since 2 February 1986)
Political parties and leaders:
    Fatherland Union (VU), Dr. Otto HASLER; Progressive Citizens' Party (FBP),
    Emanuel VOGT; Free Electoral List (FW)
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  Diet:
    last held on 5 March 1989 (next to be held by March 1993); results - percent
    of vote by party NA; seats - (25 total) VU 13, FBP 12
Member of:
    CE, CSCE, EBRD, IAEA, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, ITU, LORCS, UN, UNCTAD, UPU,
    WIPO
Diplomatic representation:
    in routine diplomatic matters, Liechtenstein is represented in the US by the
    Swiss Embassy
  US:
    the US has no diplomatic or consular mission in Liechtenstein, but the US
    Consul General at Zurich (Switzerland) has consular accreditation at Vaduz
Flag:
    two equal horizontal bands of blue (top) and red with a gold crown on the
    hoist side of the blue band

:Liechtenstein Economy

Overview:
    The prosperous economy is based primarily on small-scale light industry and
    tourism. Industry accounts for 53% of total employment, the service sector
    45% (mostly based on tourism), and agriculture and forestry 2%. The sale of
    postage stamps to collectors is estimated at $10 million annually. Low
    business taxes (the maximum tax rate is 20%) and easy incorporation rules
    have induced about 25,000 holding or so-called letter box companies to
    establish nominal offices in Liechtenstein. Such companies, incorporated
    solely for tax purposes, provide 30% of state revenues. The economy is tied
    closely to that of Switzerland in a customs union, and incomes and living
    standards parallel those of the more prosperous Swiss groups.
GDP:
    purchasing power equivalent - $630 million, per capita $22,300; real growth
    rate NA% (1990 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    5.4% (1990)
Unemployment rate:
    1.5% (1990)
Budget:
    revenues $259 million; expenditures $292 million, including capital
    expenditures of NA (1990)
Exports:
    $1.6 billion
  commodities:
    small specialty machinery, dental products, stamps, hardware, pottery
  partners:
    EFTA countries 20.9% (Switzerland 15.4%), EC countries 42.7%, other 36.4%
    (1990)
Imports:
    $NA
  commodities:
    machinery, metal goods, textiles, foodstuffs, motor vehicles
  partners:
    NA
External debt:
    $NA
Industrial production:
    growth rate NA%
Electricity:
    23,000 kW capacity; 150 million kWh produced, 5,340 kWh per capita (1989)
Industries:
    electronics, metal manufacturing, textiles, ceramics, pharmaceuticals, food
    products, precision instruments, tourism
Agriculture:
    livestock, vegetables, corn, wheat, potatoes, grapes
Economic aid:
    none
Currency:
    Swiss franc, franken, or franco (plural - francs, franken, or franchi); 1
    Swiss franc, franken, or franco (SwF) = 100 centimes, rappen, or centesimi
Exchange rates:
    Swiss francs, franken, or franchi (SwF) per US$1 - 1.5079 (March 1992),
    1.4340 (1991), 1.3892 (1990), 1.6359 (1989), 1.4633 (1988), 1.4912 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Liechtenstein Communications

Railroads:
    18.5 km 1.435-meter standard gauge, electrified; owned, operated, and
    included in statistics of Austrian Federal Railways
Highways:
    130.66 km main roads, 192.27 km byroads
Civil air:
    no transport aircraft
Airports:
    none
Telecommunications:
    limited, but sufficient automatic telephone system; 25,400 telephones;
    linked to Swiss networks by cable and radio relay for international
    telephone, radio, and TV services

:Liechtenstein Defense Forces

Branches:
    Police Department
Note:
    defense is responsibility of Switzerland

:Lithuania Geography

Total area:
    65,200 km2
Land area:
    65,200 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than West Virginia
Land boundaries:
    1,273 km; Belarus 502 km, Latvia 453 km, Poland 91 km, Russia (Kaliningrad)
    227 km
Coastline:
    108 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    NA nm
  Continental shelf:
    NA meter depth
  Exclusive fishing zone:
    NA nm
  Exclusive economic zone:
    NA nm
  Territorial sea:
    NA nm
Disputes:
    dispute with Russia (Kaliningrad Oblast) over the position of the Neman
    River border presently located on the Lithuanian bank and not in midriver as
    by international standards
Climate:
    maritime; wet, moderate winters
Terrain:
    lowland, many scattered small lakes, fertile soil
Natural resources:
    peat
Land use:
    49.1% arable land; NA% permanent crops; 22.2% meadows and pastures; 16.3%
    forest and woodland; 12.4% other; includes NA% irrigated
Environment:
    NA

:Lithuania People

Population:
    3,788,542 (July 1992), growth rate 0.8% (1992)
Birth rate:
    15 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    11 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    4 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    18 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    66 years male, 76 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    2.1 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Lithuanian(s); adjective - Lithuanian
Ethnic divisions:
    Lithuanian 80.1%, Russian 8.6%, Poles 7.7%, Byelorussian 1.5%, other 2.1%
Religions:
    Catholic NA%, Lutheran NA%, unknown NA%, none NA%, other NA%
Languages:
    Lithuanian (official), Polish NA%, Russian NA%
Literacy:
    NA% (male NA%, female NA%) age 15 and over can read and write
Labor force:
    1,836,000; industry and construction 42%, agriculture and forestry 18%,
    other 40% (1990)
Organized labor:
    Lithuanian Trade Union Association; Labor Federation of Lithuania; Union of
    Workers

:Lithuania Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Lithuania
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Vilnius
Administrative divisions:
    none - all rayons are under direct republic jurisdiction
Independence:
    1918; annexed by the Soviet Union 3 August 1940; restored independence 11
    March 1990; and regained indpendence from the USSR 6 September 1991
Constitution:
    NA; Constitutional Commission has drafted a new constitution that will be
    sent to Parliament for ratification
Legal system:
    based on civil law system; no judicial review of legislative acts
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 16 February; Defenders of Freedom Day, 13 January
Executive branch:
    prime minister, Council of Ministers, Government,
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Supreme Council, Parliament
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court; Court of Appeals; district and city courts; Procurator
    General of Lithuania
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Chairman, Supreme Council Vytautas LANDSBERGIS (since March 1990), Deputy
    Chairmen Bronius KUZMICKAS (since March 1990), Ceslovas STANKEVICIUS (since
    March 1990)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Gediminas VAGNORIUS (since January 1991); Deputy Prime
    Ministers Algis DOBROVOLSKAS (since January 1991), Vytantas PAKALNISKIS
    (since January 1991), Zigmas VAISVILA (since January 1991)
Political parties and leaders:
    Christian Democratic Party, FNU KATILIUS, chairman; Democratic Labor Party
    of Lithuania, Algirdas Mykolas BRAZAUSKAS, chairman; Lithuanian Democratic
    Party, Sauluis PECELIUNAS, chairman; Lithuanian Green Party, Irena
    IGNATAVICIENE, chairwoman; Lithuanian Humanism Party, Vytautas KAZLAUSKAS,
    chairman; Lithuanian Independence Party, Virgilijus CEPAITIS, chairman;
    Lithuanian Liberty League, Antanas TERLECKAS; Lithuanian Liberals Union,
    Vytautus RADZVILAS, chairman; Lithuanian Nationalist Union, Rimantas
    SMETONA, chairman; Lithuanian Social Democratic Party, Aloizas SAKALAS,
    chairman
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  President:
    last held March 1990 (elected by Parliament); results - LANDSBERGIS,
    BRAZAUSKAS
  Supreme Council:
    last held 24 February 1990; results - Sajudis (nationalist movement won a
    large majority) (90) 63%; seats - (141 total)
Other political or pressure groups:
    Sajudis; Lithuanian Future Forum; Farmers Union
Member of:
    CSCE, IAEA, ILO, NACC, UN, UNCTAD

:Lithuania Government

Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Stasys LOZORAITIS, Jr.; Embassy at 2622 16th St. NW, Washington,
    DC 20009; telephone (202) 234-5860, 2639
  US:
    Ambassador Darryl JOHNSON; Embassy at Mykolaicio putino 4, Vilnius; (mailing
    address is APO AE 09862); telephone [7] (01-22) 628-049
Flag:
    yellow, green, and red horizontal stripes

:Lithuania Economy

Overview:
    Lithuania is striving to become a small, independent, largely privatized
    economy rather than a segment of a huge, centrally planned economy. Although
    substantially above average in living standards and technology in the old
    USSR, Lithuania historically lagged behind Latvia and Estonia in economic
    development. It is ahead of its Baltic neighbors, however, in implementing
    market reform. The country has no important natural resources aside from its
    arable land and strategic location. Industry depends entirely on imported
    materials that have come from the republics of the former USSR. Lithuania
    benefits from its ice-free port at Klaipeda on the Baltic Sea and its rail
    and highway hub at Vilnius, which provides land communication between
    Eastern Europe and Russia, Latvia, Estonia, and Belarus. Industry produces a
    small assortment of high-quality products, ranging from complex machine
    tools to sophisticated consumer electronics. Thanks to nuclear power,
    Lithuania is presently self-sufficient in electricity, exporting its surplus
    to Latvia and Belarus; the nuclear facilities inherited from the USSR,
    however, have come under world scrutiny as seriously deficient in safety
    standards. Agriculture is efficient compared with most of the former Soviet
    Union. Lithuania holds first place in per capita consumption of meat, second
    place for eggs and potatoes, and fourth place for milk and dairy products.
    Grain must be imported to support the meat and dairy industries. As to
    economic reforms, Lithuania is pressing ahead with plans to privatize at
    least 60% of state-owned property (industry, agriculture, and housing)
    having already sold many small enterprises using a voucher system. Other
    government priorities include stimulating foreign investment by protecting
    the property rights of foreign firms and redirecting foreign trade away from
    Eastern markets to the more competitive Western markets. For the moment,
    Lithuania will remain highly dependent on Russia for energy, raw materials,
    grains, and markets for its products.
GDP:
    purchasing power equivalent - $NA; per capita NA; real growth rate -13%
    (1991)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    200% (1991)
Unemployment rate:
    NA%
Budget:
    revenues 4.8 billion rubles; expenditures 4.7 billion rubles (1989 economic
    survey); note - budget revenues and expenditures are not given for other
    former Soviet republics; implied deficit from these figures does not have a
    clear interpretation
Exports:
    700 million rubles (f.o.b., 1990)
  commodities:
    electronics 18%, petroleum products 16%, food 10%, chemicals 6% (1989)
  partners:
    Russia 60%, Ukraine 15%, other former Soviet republics 20%, West 5%
Imports:
    2.2 billion rubles (c.i.f., 1990)
  commodities:
    oil 24%, machinery 14%, chemicals 8%, grain NA%
  partners:
    NA
External debt:
    $650 million (1991 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate -1.3% (1991)
Electricity:
    5,875,000 kW capacity; 25,500 million kWh produced, NA kWh per capita (1991)

:Lithuania Economy

Industries:
    employs 25% of the labor force; its shares in the total production of the
    former USSR are metal-cutting machine tools 6.6%; electric motors 4.6%;
    television sets 6.2%; refrigerators and freezers 5.4%; other production
    includes petroleum refining, shipbuilding (small ships), furniture making,
    textiles, food processing, fertilizers, agricultural machinery, optical
    equipment, electronic components, computers, and amber
Agriculture:
    employs 29% of labor force; sugar, grain, potatoes, sugarbeets, vegetables,
    meat, milk, dairy products, eggs, and fish; most developed are the livestock
    and dairy branches - these depend on imported grain; Lithuania is a net
    exporter of meat, milk, and eggs
Illicit drugs:
    transshipment point for illicit drugs from Central and Southwest Asia to
    Western Europe
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (1992), $10 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-86), $NA million;
    Communist countries (1971-86), $NA million
Currency:
    as of May 1992, retaining ruble as currency but planning early introduction
    of ``litas''
Exchange rates:
    NA
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Lithuania Communications

Railroads:
    2,010 km (includes NA km electrified); does not include industrial lines
    (1990)
Highways:
    44,200 km total (1990); 35,500 km hard surfaced, 8,700 km earth
Inland waterways:
    600 km perennially navigable
Pipelines:
    NA
Ports:
    maritime - Klaipeda; inland - Kaunas
Merchant marine:
    66 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 268,854 GRT/315,690 DWT; includes 27
    cargo, 24 timber carrier, 1 container, 3 railcar carrier, 11 combination
    bulk
Civil air:
    NA
Airports:
    NA
Telecommunications:
    better developed than in most other former USSR republics; 22.4 telephones
    per 100 persons; broadcast stations - 13 AM, 26 FM, 1 SW, 1 LW, 3 TV;
    landlines or microwave to former USSR republics; leased connection to the
    Moscow international switch for traffic with other countries; satellite
    earth stations - (8 channels to Norway)

:Lithuania Defense Forces

Branches:
    Ground Forces, Republic Security Forces (internal and border troops),
    National Guard/Volunteers; Russian Forces (Ground, Navy, Air, and Air
    Defense)
Manpower availability:
    NA

:Luxembourg Geography

Total area:
    2,586 km
Land area:
    2,586 km
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than Rhode Island
Land boundaries:
    359 km; Belgium 148 km, France 73 km, Germany 138 km
Coastline:
    none - landlocked
Maritime claims:
    none - landlocked
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    modified continental with mild winters, cool summers
Terrain:
    mostly gently rolling uplands with broad, shallow valleys; uplands to
    slightly mountainous in the north; steep slope down to Moselle floodplain in
    the southeast
Natural resources:
    iron ore (no longer exploited)
Land use:
    arable land 24%; permanent crops 1%; meadows and pastures 20%; forest and
    woodland 21%; other 34%
Environment:
    deforestation
Note:
    landlocked

:Luxembourg People

Population:
    392,405 (July 1992), growth rate 1.0% (1992)
Birth rate:
    12 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    10 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    7 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    8 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    73 years male, 80 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    1.6 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Luxembourger(s); adjective - Luxembourg
Ethnic divisions:
    Celtic base, with French and German blend; also guest and worker residents
    from Portugal, Italy, and European countries
Religions:
    Roman Catholic 97%, Protestant and Jewish 3%
Languages:
    Luxembourgisch, German, French; many also speak English
Literacy:
    100% (male 100%, female 100%) age 15 and over can read and write (1980 est.)
Labor force:
    177,300; one-third of labor force is foreign workers, mostly from Portugal,
    Italy, France, Belgium, and FRG; services 65%, industry 31.6%, agriculture
    3.4% (1988)
Organized labor:
    100,000 (est.) members of four confederated trade unions

:Luxembourg Government

Long-form name:
    Grand Duchy of Luxembourg
Type:
    constitutional monarchy
Capital:
    Luxembourg
Administrative divisions:
    3 districts; Diekirch, Grevenmacher, Luxembourg
Independence:
    1839
Constitution:
    17 October 1868, occasional revisions
Legal system:
    based on civil law system; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
National holiday:
    National Day (public celebration of the Grand Duke's birthday), 23 June
    (1921)
Executive branch:
    grand duke, prime minister, vice prime minister, Council of Ministers
    (cabinet)
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Chamber of Deputies (Chambre des Deputes); note - the Council of
    State (Conseil d'Etat) is an advisory body whose views are considered by the
    Chamber of Deputies
Judicial branch:
    Superior Court of Justice (Cour Superieure de Justice)
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Grand Duke JEAN (since 12 November 1964); Heir Apparent Prince HENRI (son of
    Grand Duke Jean, born 16 April 1955)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Jacques SANTER (since 21 July 1984); Vice Prime Minister
    Jacques F. POOS (since 21 July 1984)
Political parties and leaders:
    Christian Social Party (CSV), Jacques SANTER; Socialist Workers Party
    (LSAP), Jacques POOS; Liberal (DP), Colette FLESCH; Communist (KPL), Andre
    HOFFMANN; Green Alternative (GAP), Jean HUSS
Suffrage:
    universal and compulsory at age 18
Elections:
  Chamber of Deputies:
    last held on 18 June 1989 (next to be held by June 1994); results - CSV
    31.7%, LSAP 27.2%, DP 16.2%, Greens 8.4%, PAC 7.3%, KPL 5.1%, other 4.1%;
    seats - (60 total) CSV 22, LSAP 18, DP 11, Greens 4, PAC 4, KPL 1
Other political or pressure groups:
    group of steel industries representing iron and steel industry, Centrale
    Paysanne representing agricultural producers; Christian and Socialist labor
    unions; Federation of Industrialists; Artisans and Shopkeepers Federation
Member of:
    ACCT, Australia Group, Benelux, CCC, CE, COCOM, CSCE, EBRD, EC, ECE, EIB,
    EMS, FAO, GATT, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF,
    IMO, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, IOM, ITU, LORCS, MTCR, NACC, NATO, NEA, NSG,
    OECD, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WEU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, ZC
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Alphonse BERNS; Chancery at 2200 Massachusetts Avenue NW,
    Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 265-4171; there are Luxembourg
    Consulates General in New York and San Francisco

:Luxembourg Government

  US:
    Ambassador Edward M. ROWELL; Embassy at 22 Boulevard Emmanuel-Servais, 2535
    Luxembourg City; PSC 11 (mailing address is APO AE 09132-5380); telephone
    [352] 460123; FAX [352] 461401
Flag:
    three equal horizontal bands of red (top), white, and light blue; similar to
    the flag of the Netherlands, which uses a darker blue and is shorter; design
    was based on the flag of France

:Luxembourg Economy

Overview:
    The stable economy features moderate growth, low inflation, and negligible
    unemployment. Agriculture is based on small but highly productive
    family-owned farms. The industrial sector, until recently dominated by
    steel, has become increasingly more diversified, particularly toward
    high-technology firms. During the past decade, growth in the financial
    sector has more than compensated for the decline in steel. Services,
    especially banking, account for a growing proportion of the economy.
    Luxembourg participates in an economic union with Belgium on trade and most
    financial matters and is also closely connected economically to the
    Netherlands.
GDP:
    purchasing power equivalent - $7.83 billion, per capita $20,200; real growth
    rate 2.5% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    3.7% (1990)
Unemployment rate:
    1.3% (1990)
Budget:
    revenues $2.5 billion; expenditures $2.3 billion, including capital
    expenditures of NA (1988)
Exports:
    $6.3 billion (f.o.b., 1990)
  commodities:
    finished steel products, chemicals, rubber products, glass, aluminum, other
    industrial products
  partners:
    EC 75%, US 5%
Imports:
    $7.5 billion (c.i.f., 1990)
  commodities:
    minerals, metals, foodstuffs, quality consumer goods
  partners:
    Belgium 37%, FRG 31%, France 12%, US 2%
External debt:
    $131.6 million (1989 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate - 0.5% (1990); accounts for 25% of GDP
Electricity:
    1,500,000 kW capacity; 1,163 million kWh produced, 3,170 kWh per capita
    (1991)
Industries:
    banking, iron and steel, food processing, chemicals, metal products,
    engineering, tires, glass, aluminum
Agriculture:
    accounts for less than 3% of GDP (including forestry); principal products -
    barley, oats, potatoes, wheat, fruits, wine grapes; cattle raising
    widespread
Economic aid:
    none
Currency:
    Luxembourg franc (plural - francs); 1 Luxembourg franc (LuxF) = 100 centimes
Exchange rates:
    Luxembourg francs (LuxF) per US$1 - 32.462 (January 1992), 34.148 (1991),
    33.418 (1990), 39.404 (1989), 36.768 (1988), 37.334 (1987); note - the
    Luxembourg franc is at par with the Belgian franc, which circulates freely
    in Luxembourg
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Luxembourg Communications

Railroads:
    Luxembourg National Railways (CFL) operates 270 km 1.435-meter standard
    gauge; 162 km double track; 162 km electrified
Highways:
    5,108 km total; 4,995 km paved, 57 km gravel, 56 km earth; about 80 km
    limited access divided highway
Inland waterways:
    37 km; Moselle River
Pipelines:
    petroleum products 48 km
Ports:
    Mertert (river port)
Merchant marine:
    49 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 1,592,985 GRT/2,642,249 DWT; includes
    3 cargo, 5 container, 5 roll-on/roll-off, 6 petroleum tanker, 4 chemical
    tanker, 3 combination ore/oil, 8 liquefied gas, 1 passenger, 8 bulk, 6
    combination bulk
Civil air:
    13 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    2 total, 2 usable; 1 with permanent-surface runways; 1 with runways over
    3,659 m; 1 with runways less than 1,220 m
Telecommunications:
    highly developed, completely automated and efficient system, mainly buried
    cables; 230,000 telephones; broadcast stations - 2 AM, 3 FM, 3 TV; 3
    channels leased on TAT-6 coaxial submarine cable; 1 direct-broadcast
    satellite earth station; nationwide mobile phone system

:Luxembourg Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, National Gendarmerie
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 100,994; 83,957 fit for military service; 2,320 reach military
    age (19) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $100 million, 1.4% of GDP (1991)

:Macau Geography

Total area:
    16 km2
Land area:
    16 km2
Comparative area:
    about 0.1 times the size of Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    0.34 km; China 0.34 km
Coastline:
    40 km
Maritime claims:
    not known
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    subtropical; marine with cool winters, warm summers
Terrain:
    generally flat
Natural resources:
    negligible
Land use:
    arable land 0%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 0%; forest and
    woodland 0%; other 100%
Environment:
    essentially urban; one causeway and one bridge connect the two islands to
    the peninsula on mainland
Note:
    27 km west-southwest of Hong Kong on the southeast coast of China

:Macau People

Population:
    473,333 (July 1992), growth rate 1.7% (1992)
Birth rate:
    17 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    4 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    4 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    8 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    78 years male, 84 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    1.6 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Macanese (singular and plural); adjective - Macau
Ethnic divisions:
    Chinese 95%, Portuguese 3%, other 2%
Religions:
    Buddhist 45%, Roman Catholic 7%, Protestant 1%, none 45.8%, other 1.2%
    (1981)
Languages:
    Portuguese (official); Cantonese is the language of commerce
Literacy:
    90% (male 93%, female 86%) age 15 and over can read and write (1981)
Labor force:
    180,000 (1986)
Organized labor:
    none

:Macau Government

Long-form name:
    none
Type:
    overseas territory of Portugal; scheduled to revert to China in 1999
Capital:
    Macau
Administrative divisions:
    2 districts (concelhos, singular - concelho); Ilhas, Macau
Independence:
    none (territory of Portugal); Portugal signed an agreement with China on 13
    April 1987 to return Macau to China on 20 December 1999; in the joint
    declaration, China promises to respect Macau's existing social and economic
    systems and lifestyle for 50 years after transition
Constitution:
    17 February 1976, Organic Law of Macau; basic law drafted primarily by
    Beijing awaiting final approval
Legal system:
    Portuguese civil law system
National holiday:
    Day of Portugal, 10 June
Executive branch:
    President of Portugal, governor, Consultative Council (cabinet)
Legislative branch:
    Legislative Assembly
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President (of Portugal) Mario Alberto SOARES (since 9 March 1986)
  Head of Government:
    Governor Gen. Vasco Joachim Rocha VIEIRA (since 20 March 1991)
Political parties and leaders:
    Association to Defend the Interests of Macau; Macau Democratic Center; Group
    to Study the Development of Macau; Macau Independent Group
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  Legislative Assembly:
    last held on 10 March 1991; results - percent of vote by party NA; seats -
    (23 total; 8 elected by universal suffrage, 8 by indirect suffrage, and 7
    appointed by the governor) number of seats by party NA
Other political or pressure groups:
    wealthy Macanese and Chinese representing local interests, wealthy
    pro-Communist merchants representing China's interests; in January 1967 the
    Macau Government acceded to Chinese demands that gave China veto power over
    administration
Member of:
    IMO (associate), WTO (associate)
Diplomatic representation:
    as Chinese territory under Portuguese administration, Macanese interests in
    the US are represented by Portugal
  US:
    the US has no offices in Macau, and US interests are monitored by the US
    Consulate General in Hong Kong
Flag:
    the flag of Portugal is used

:Macau Economy

Overview:
    The economy is based largely on tourism (including gambling) and textile and
    fireworks manufacturing. Efforts to diversify have spawned other small
    industries - toys, artificial flowers, and electronics. The tourist sector
    has accounted for roughly 25% of GDP, and the clothing industry has provided
    about two-thirds of export earnings; the gambling industry represented 36%
    of GDP in 1991. Macau depends on China for most of its food, fresh water,
    and energy imports. Japan and Hong Kong are the main suppliers of raw
    materials and capital goods.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $3.1 billion, per capita $6,900; real growth rate
    6% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    8.8% (1990 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    2% (1989 est.)
Budget:
    revenues $305 million; expenditures $298 million, including capital
    expenditures of $NA (1989)
Exports:
    $1.5 billion (1990 est.)
  commodities:
    textiles, clothing, toys
  partners:
    US 33%, Hong Kong 15%, FRG 12%, France 10% (1987)
Imports:
    $1.8 billion (1990 est.)
  commodities:
    raw materials, foodstuffs, capital goods
  partners:
    Hong Kong 39%, China 21%, Japan 10% (1987)
External debt:
    $91 million (1985)
Industrial production:
    NA
Electricity:
    220,000 kW capacity; 520 million kWh produced, 1,165 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    clothing, textiles, toys, plastic products, furniture, tourism
Agriculture:
    rice, vegetables; food shortages - rice, vegetables, meat; depends mostly on
    imports for food requirements
Economic aid:
    none
Currency:
    pataca (plural - patacas); 1 pataca (P) = 100 avos
Exchange rates:
    patacas (P) per US$1 - 8.034 (1991), 8.024 (1990), 8.030 (1989), 8.044
    (1988), 7.993 (1987); note - linked to the Hong Kong dollar at the rate of
    1.03 patacas per Hong Kong dollar
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Macau Communications

Highways:
    42 km paved
Ports:
    Macau
Civil air:
    no major transport aircraft
Airports:
    none useable, 1 under construction; 1 seaplane station
Telecommunications:
    fairly modern communication facilities maintained for domestic and
    international services; 52,000 telephones; broadcast stations - 4 AM, 3 FM,
    no TV; 75,000 radio receivers (est.); international high-frequency radio
    communication facility; access to international communications carriers
    provided via Hong Kong and China; 1 Indian Ocean INTELSAT earth station

:Macau Defense Forces

Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 135,923; 76,414 fit for military service
Note:
    defense is responsibility of Portugal

:Macedonia Header

Note:
    Macedonia has proclaimed independent statehood but has not been formally
    recognized as a state by the United States.

:Macedonia Geography

Total area:
    25,333 km2
Land area:
    24,856 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than Vermont
Land boundaries:
    748 km; Albania 151 km, Bulgaria 148 km, Greece 228 km, Serbia and
    Montenegro 221 km
Coastline:
    none - landlocked
Disputes:
    Greece claims republic's name implies territorial claims against Aegean
    Macedonia
Climate:
    hot, dry summers and autumns and relatively cold winters with heavy snowfall
Terrain:
    territory covered with deep basins and valleys; there are three large lakes,
    each divided by a frontier line
Natural resources:
    chromium, lead, zinc, manganese, tungsten, nickel, low-grade iron ore,
    asbestos, sulphur, timber
Land use:
    arable land 5%; permanent crops 5%; meadows and pastures 20%; forest and
    woodland 30%; other 40%; includes irrigated NA%
Environment:
    Macedonia suffers from high seismic hazard; air pollution from metallurgical
    plants
Note:
    major transportation corridor from Western and Central Europe to Aegean Sea

:Macedonia People

Population:
    2,174,000 (July 1992), growth rate NA% (1992)
Birth rate:
    NA births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    NA deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    NA migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    NA deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    71 years male, 75 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    NA children born/woman (1992)
Ethnic divisions:
    Macedonian 67%, Albanian 20%, Turkish 4%, Serb 2%, other 7%
Religions:
    Eastern Orthodox 59%, Muslim 26%, Catholic 4%, Protestant 1%, unknown 10%
Languages:
    Macedonian 70%, Albanian 21%, Turkish 3%, Serbo-Croatian 3%, other 3%
Literacy:
    89.1% (male 94.2%, female 83.8%) age 10 and over can read and write (1992
    est.)
Labor force:
    507,324; agriculture 8%, manufacturing and mining 40% (1990)
Organized labor:
    NA

:Macedonia Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Macedonia
Type:
    emerging democracy
Capital:
    Skopje
Administrative divisions:
    NA
Independence:
    20 November 1991 from Yugoslavia
Constitution:
    adopted 17 November 1991, effective 20 November 1991
Legal system:
    based on civil law system; judicial review of legislative acts
National holiday:
    NA
Executive branch:
    presidency, Council of Ministers, prime minister
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Assembly
Judicial branch:
    Constitutional Court, Judicial Court of the Republic
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Kiro GLIGOROV (since 27 January 1991)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Nikola KLJUSEV (since March 1991), Deputy Prime Ministers
    Jovan ANDONOV (since March 1991), Blaze RISTOVSKI (since March 1991), and
    Bezir ZUTA (since March 1991)
Political parties and leaders:
    Social Democratic Alliance (SDA; former Communist Party), Branko
    CRVENKOVSKI, chairman; Party of Democratic Prosperity, (PDP), Nevzat HALILI,
    chairman; National Democratic Party, Iliaz HALIMI, chairman; Alliance of
    Reform Forces of Macedonia (MARF), Sojan ANDOV, chairman; Socialist Party,
    chairman NA; Internal Macedonian Revolutionary Organization - Democratic
    Party for Macedonian National Unity (IMRO-DPMNU), Ljupco GEORGIEVSKI,
    chairman
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  President:
    last held 27 January 1991 (next to be held NA); results - Kiro GLIGOREV won
  Assembly:
    last held 11 November 1990 (next to be held NA);results - percent of vote by
    party NA; seats - (120 total) IMRO-DPMNU 37, SDA 31, PDP 25, MARF 17, Party
    of Yugoslavs 1, Socialists 5, others 4
Communists:
    NA
Other political or pressure groups:
    Movement for All Macedonian Action (MAAK), IMRU-Democratic Party, League for
    Democracy, Albanian Democratic Union-Liberal Party
Member of:
    none
Diplomatic representation:
    has not been formerly recognized by the US
Flag:
    NA

:Macedonia Economy

Overview:
    Macedonia, although the poorest among the six republics of a disintegrated
    Yugoslav federation, can meet basic food and energy needs through its own
    agricultural and coal resources. As a breakaway republic, however, it will
    move down toward a bare subsistence level of life unless economic ties are
    reforged or enlarged with its neighbors Serbia, Albania, Greece, and
    Bulgaria. The economy depends on outside sources for all of its oil and gas
    and its modern machinery and parts. Continued political turmoil, both
    internally and in the region as a whole, prevents any swift readjustments of
    trade patterns and economic rules of the game. Inflation in early 1992 was
    out of control, the result of fracturing trade links, the decline in
    economic activity, and general uncertainties about the future status of the
    country; prices rose 38% in March 1992 alone. Macedonia's geographical
    isolation, technological backwardness, and political instability place it
    far down the list of countries of interest to Western investors. Recognition
    of Macedonia by the EC and an internal commitment to economic reform would
    help to encourage foreign investment over the long run.
GDP:
    $7.1 billion, per capita $3,110; real growth rate -18% (1991 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    20% (1991 est.)
Exports:
    $578 million (1990)
  commodities:
    manufactured goods 40%, machinery and transport equipment 14%, miscellaneous
    manufactured articles 23%, raw materials 7.6%, food (rice) and live animals
    5.7%, beverages and tobacco 4.5%, chemicals 4.7%
  partners:
    principally Serbia and the other former Yugoslav republics, Germany, Greece,
    Albania
Imports:
    $1,112 million (1990)
  commodities:
    fuels and lubricants 19%, manufactured goods 18%, machinery and transport
    equipment 15%, food and live animals 14%, chemicals 11.4%, raw materials
    10%, miscellaneous manufactured articles 8.0%, beverages and tobacco 3.5%
  partners:
    other former Yugoslav republics, Greece, Albania, Germany, Bulgaria
External debt:
    $NA
Industrial production:
    growth rate -18% (1991 est.)
Electricity:
    1,600,000 kw capacity; 6,300 million kWh produced, 3,103 kWh per capita
    (1991)
Industries:
    low levels of technology predominate, such as, oil refining by distillation
    only; produces basic fuels; mining and manufacturing processes result in the
    extraction and production of coal as well as metallic chromium, lead, zinc,
    and ferronickel; light industry produces basic textiles, wood products, and
    tobacco
Agriculture:
    provides 12% of Macedonia's GDP and meets the basic need for food; principal
    crops are rice, tobacco, wheat, corn, and millet; also grown are cotton,
    sesame, mulberry leaves, citrus fruit, and vegetables; Macedonia is one of
    the seven legal cultivators of the opium poppy for the world pharmaceutical
    industry, including some exports to the US; agricultural production is
    highly labor intensive

:Macedonia Economy

Illicit drugs:
    NA
Economic aid:
    $NA
Currency:
    denar (plural - denars); 1 denar (NA) = 100 NA
Exchange rates:
    denar (NA) per US$1 - 240 (January 1991)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Macedonia Communications

Railroads:
    NA
Highways:
    10,591 km total (1991); 5,091 km paved, 1,404 km gravel, 4,096 km earth
Inland waterways:
    NA km
Pipelines:
    none
Ports:
    none - landlocked
Airports:
    2 main
Telecommunications:
    125,000 telephones; broadcast stations - 6 AM, 2 FM, 5 (2 relays) TV;
    370,000 radios, 325,000 TV; satellite communications ground stations - none

:Macedonia Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Air and Air Defense Force
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 590,613; NA fit for military service; 22,913 reach military age
    (18) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - 7.0 billion dinars (est.), NA% of GDP (1992);
    note - conversion of the military budget into US dollars using the current
    exchange rate could produce misleading results

:Madagascar Geography

Total area:
    587,040 km2
Land area:
    581,540 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly less than twice the size of Arizona
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    4,828 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    claims Bassas da India, Europa Island, Glorioso Islands, Juan de Nova
    Island, and Tromelin Island (all administered by France)
Climate:
    tropical along coast, temperate inland, arid in south
Terrain:
    narrow coastal plain, high plateau and mountains in center
Natural resources:
    graphite, chromite, coal, bauxite, salt, quartz, tar sands, semiprecious
    stones, mica, fish
Land use:
    arable land 4%; permanent crops 1%; meadows and pastures 58%; forest and
    woodland 26%; other 11%; includes irrigated 2%
Environment:
    subject to periodic cyclones; deforestation; overgrazing; soil erosion;
    desertification
Note:
    world's fourth-largest island; strategic location along Mozambique Channel

:Madagascar People

Population:
    12,596,263 (July 1992), growth rate 3.2% (1992)
Birth rate:
    46 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    14 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    93 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    51 years male, 55 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    6.8 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Malagasy (singular and plural); adjective - Malagasy
Ethnic divisions:
    basic split between highlanders of predominantly Malayo-Indonesian origin
    (Merina and related Betsileo) on the one hand and coastal tribes,
    collectively termed the Cotiers, with mixed African, Malayo-Indonesian, and
    Arab ancestry (Betsimisaraka, Tsimihety, Antaisaka, Sakalava), on the other;
    there are also small French, Indian, Creole, and Comoran communities; no
    current, accurate assessment of tribal numbers is available
Religions:
    indigenous beliefs 52%, Christian about 41%, Muslim 7%
Languages:
    French and Malagasy (official)
Literacy:
    80% (male 88%, female 73%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    4,900,000; 90% nonsalaried family workers engaged in subsistence
    agriculture; 175,000 wage earners - agriculture 26%, domestic service 17%,
    industry 15%, commerce 14%, construction 11%, services 9%, transportation
    6%, other 2%; 51% of population of working age (1985)
Organized labor:
    4% of labor force

:Madagascar Government

Long-form name:
    Democratic Republic of Madagascar
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Antananarivo
Administrative divisions:
    6 provinces (plural - NA, singular - faritanin'); Antananarivo, Antsiranana,
    Fianarantsoa, Mahajanga, Toamasina, Toliary
Independence:
    26 June 1960 (from France; formerly Malagasy Republic)
Constitution:
    21 December 1975; note - a new constitution is to be in place before 1993
Legal system:
    based on French civil law system and traditional Malagasy law; has not
    accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 26 June (1960)
Executive branch:
    president, prime minister, Council of Ministers
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Popular National Assembly (Assemblee Nationale Populaire); note -
    the National Assembly has suspended its operations during 1992 in
    preparation for new legislative and presidential elections. In its place, an
    interim High Authority of State and a Social and Economic Recovery Council
    have been established
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court (Cour Supreme), High Constitutional Court (Haute Cour
    Constitutionnelle)
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Adm. Didier RATSIRAKA (since 15 June 1975)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Guy RASANAMAZY (since 8 August 1991)
Political parties and leaders:
    some 30 political parties now exist in Madagascar, the most important of
    which are the Advance Guard of the Malagasy Revolution (AREMA), Didier
    RATSIRAKA; Congress Party for Malagasy Independence (AKFM),
    RAKOTOVAO-ANDRIATIANA; Congress Party for Malagasy Independence-Revival
    (AKFM-R), Pastor Richard ANDRIAMANJATO; Movement for National Unity (VONJY),
    Dr. Marojama RAZANABAHINY; Malagasy Christian Democratic Union (UDECMA),
    Norbert ANDRIAMORASATA; Militants for the Establishment of a Proletarian
    Regime (MFM), Manandafy RAKOTONIRINA; National Movement for the Independence
    of Madagascar (MONIMA), Monja JAONA; National Union for the Defense of
    Democracy (UNDD), Albert ZAFY
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  President:
    last held on 12 March 1989 (next to be held NA 1992); results - Didier
    RATSIRAKA (AREMA) 62%, Manandafy RAKOTONIRINA (MFM/MFT) 20%, Dr. Jerome
    Marojama RAZANABAHINY (VONJY) 15%, Monja JAONA (MONIMA) 3%
  Popular National Assembly:
    last held on 28 May 1989 (next to be held 1992); results - AREMA 88.2%, MFM
    5.1%, AKFM 3.7%, VONJY 2.2%, other 0.8%; seats - (137 total) AREMA 120, MFM
    7, AKFM 5, VONJY 4, MONIMA 1

:Madagascar Government

Member of:
    ACCT, ACP, AfDB, CCC, ECA, FAO, G-77, GATT, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU,
    IDA, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, ITU, LORCS, NAM,
    OAU, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Pierrot Jocelyn RAJAONARIVELO; Chancery at 2374 Massachusetts
    Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 265-5525 or 5526; there is
    a Malagasy Consulate General in New York
  US:
    Ambassador Howard K. WALKER; Embassy at 14 and 16 Rue Rainitovo,
    Antsahavola, Antananarivo (mailing address is B. P. 620, Antananarivo);
    telephone [261] (2) 212-57, 209-56, 200-89, 207-18
Flag:
    two equal horizontal bands of red (top) and green with a vertical white band
    of the same width on hoist side

:Madagascar Economy

Overview:
    Madagascar is one of the poorest countries in the world. Agriculture,
    including fishing and forestry, is the mainstay of the economy, accounting
    for over 40% of GDP, employing about 80% of the labor force, and
    contributing to more than 70% of total export earnings. Industry is largely
    confined to the processing of agricultural products and textile
    manufacturing; in 1990 it accounted for only 16% of GDP and employed almost
    5% of the labor force. In 1986 the government introduced a five-year
    development plan that stressed self-sufficiency in food (mainly rice) by
    1990, increased production for exports, and reduced energy imports. After
    mid-1991, however, output dropped sharply because of protracted
    antigovernment strikes and demonstrations for political reform.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $2.4 billion, per capita $200; real growth rate
    -3.8% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    10% (1991)
Unemployment rate:
    NA%
Budget:
    revenues $390 million; expenditures $525 million, including capital
    expenditures of $240 million (1990 est.)
Exports:
    $290 million (f.o.b., 1990 est.)
  commodities:
    coffee 45%, vanilla 15%, cloves 11%, sugar, petroleum products
  partners:
    France, Japan, Italy, Germany, US
Imports:
    $436 million (f.o.b., 1990 est.)
  commodities:
    intermediate manufactures 30%, capital goods 28%, petroleum 15%, consumer
    goods 14%, food 13%
  partners:
    France, Germany, UK, other EC, US
External debt:
    $4.4 billion (1991)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 5.2% (1990 est.); accounts for 16% of GDP
Electricity:
    125,000 kW capacity; 450 million kWh produced, 35 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    agricultural processing (meat canneries, soap factories, breweries,
    tanneries, sugar refining plants), light consumer goods industries
    (textiles, glassware), cement, automobile assembly plant, paper, petroleum
Agriculture:
    accounts for 40% of GDP; cash crops - coffee, vanilla, sugarcane, cloves,
    cocoa; food crops - rice, cassava, beans, bananas, peanuts; cattle raising
    widespread; almost self-sufficient in rice
Illicit drugs:
    illicit producer of cannabis (cultivated and wild varieties) used mostly for
    domestic consumption
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $136 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $3,125 million;
    Communist countries (1970-89), $491 million
Currency:
    Malagasy franc (plural - francs); 1 Malagasy franc (FMG) = 100 centimes

:Madagascar Economy

Exchange rates:
    Malagasy francs (FMG) per US$1 - 1,943.4 (March 1992), 1,835.4 (1991),
    1,454.6 (December 1990), 1,603.4 (1989) , 1,407.1 (1988), 1,069.2 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Madagascar Communications

Railroads:
    1,020 km 1.000-meter gauge
Highways:
    40,000 km total; 4,694 km paved, 811 km crushed stone, gravel, or stabilized
    soil, 34,495 km improved and unimproved earth (est.)
Inland waterways:
    of local importance only; isolated streams and small portions of Canal des
    Pangalanes
Ports:
    Toamasina, Antsiranana, Mahajanga, Toliara
Merchant marine:
    14 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 59,255 GRT/81,509 DWT; includes 9
    cargo, 2 roll-on/roll-off cargo, 1 petroleum tanker, 1 chemical tanker, 1
    liquefied gas
Civil air:
    8 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    148 total, 103 usable; 30 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 3 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 34 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    above average system includes open-wire lines, coaxial cables, radio relay,
    and troposcatter links; submarine cable to Bahrain; satellite earth stations
    - 1 Indian Ocean INTELSAT and broadcast stations - 17 AM, 3 FM, 1 (36
    repeaters) TV

:Madagascar Defense Forces

Branches:
    Popular Armed Forces (including Intervention Forces, Development Forces,
    Aeronaval Forces - including Navy and Air Force), Gendarmerie, Presidential
    Security Regiment
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 2,730,713; 1,625,335 fit for military service; 114,687 reach
    military age (20) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $37 million, 2.2% of GDP (1989 est.)

:Malawi Geography

Total area:
    118,480 km2
Land area:
    94,080 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than Pennsylvania
Land boundaries:
    2,881 km; Mozambique 1,569 km, Tanzania 475 km, Zambia 837 km
Coastline:
    none - landlocked
Maritime claims:
    none - landlocked
Disputes:
    dispute with Tanzania over the boundary in Lake Nyasa (Lake Malawi)
Climate:
    tropical; rainy season (November to May); dry season (May to November)
Terrain:
    narrow elongated plateau with rolling plains, rounded hills, some mountains
Natural resources:
    limestone; unexploited deposits of uranium, coal, and bauxite
Land use:
    arable land 25%; permanent crops NEGL%; meadows and pastures 20%; forest and
    woodland 50%; other 5%; includes irrigated NEGL%
Environment:
    deforestation
Note:
    landlocked

:Malawi People

Population:
    9,605,342 (July 1992), growth rate 1.8% (1992); note - 900,000 Mozambican
    refugees in Malawi (1990 est.)
Birth rate:
    52 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    17 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    -17 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    134 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    48 years male, 51 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    7.6 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Malawian(s); adjective - Malawian
Ethnic divisions:
    Chewa, Nyanja, Tumbuko, Yao, Lomwe, Sena, Tonga, Ngoni, Ngonde, Asian,
    European
Religions:
    Protestant 55%, Roman Catholic 20%, Muslim 20%; traditional indigenous
    beliefs are also practiced
Languages:
    English and Chichewa (official); other languages important regionally
Literacy:
    22% (male 34%, female 12%) age 15 and over can read and write (1966)
Labor force:
    428,000 wage earners; agriculture 43%, manufacturing 16%, personal services
    15%, commerce 9%, construction 7%, miscellaneous services 4%, other
    permanently employed 6% (1986)
Organized labor:
    small minority of wage earners are unionized

:Malawi Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Malawi
Type:
    one-party state
Capital:
    Lilongwe
Administrative divisions:
    24 districts; Blantyre, Chikwawa, Chiradzulu, Chitipa, Dedza, Dowa, Karonga,
    Kasungu, Lilongwe, Machinga (Kasupe), Mangochi, Mchinji, Mulanje, Mwanza,
    Mzimba, Ntcheu, Nkhata Bay, Nkhotakota, Nsanje, Ntchisi, Rumphi, Salima,
    Thyolo, Zomba
Independence:
    6 July 1964 (from UK; formerly Nyasaland)
Constitution:
    6 July 1964; republished as amended January 1974
Legal system:
    based on English common law and customary law; judicial review of
    legislative acts in the Supreme Court of Appeal; has not accepted compulsory
    ICJ jurisdiction
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 6 July (1964)
Executive branch:
    president, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    unicameral National Assembly
Judicial branch:
    High Court, Supreme Court of Appeal
Leaders:
  Chief of State and Head of Government:
    President Dr. Hastings Kamuzu BANDA (since 6 July 1966; sworn in as
    President for Life 6 July 1971)
Political parties and leaders:
    only party - Malawi Congress Party (MCP), Wadson DELEZA, administrative
    secretary; John TEMBO, treasurer general; top party position of secretary
    general vacant since 1983
Suffrage:
    universal at age 21
Elections:
  President:
    President BANDA sworn in as President for Life on 6 July 1971
  National Assembly:
    last held 27-28 May 1987 (next to be held by May 1992); results - MCP is the
    only party; seats - (133 total, 112 elected) MCP 133
Member of:
    ACP, AfDB, C, CCC, ECA, FAO, G-77, GATT, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, IDA, IFAD, IFC,
    ILO, IMF, IMO, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, ISO (correspondent), ITU, LORCS,
    NAM, OAU, SADCC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Robert B. MBAYA; Chancery at 2408 Massachusetts Avenue NW,
    Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 797-1007
  US:
    Ambassador Michael T. F. PISTOR; Embassy in new capital city development
    area, address NA (mailing address is P. O. Box 30016, Lilongwe); telephone
    [265] 730-166; FAX [265] 732-282
Flag:
    three equal horizontal bands of black (top), red, and green with a radiant,
    rising, red sun centered in the black band; similar to the flag of
    Afghanistan, which is longer and has the national coat of arms superimposed
    on the hoist side of the black and red bands

:Malawi Economy

Overview:
    Landlocked Malawi ranks among the world's least developed countries. The
    economy is predominately agricultural, with about 90% of the population
    living in rural areas. Agriculture accounts for 40% of GDP and 90% of export
    revenues. After two years of weak performance, economic growth improved
    significantly in 1988-91 as a result of good weather and a broadly based
    economic adjustment effort by the government. The economy depends on
    substantial inflows of economic assistance from the IMF, the World Bank, and
    individual donor nations.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $1.9 billion, per capita $200; growth rate 4.2%
    (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    9% (1991 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    NA%
Budget:
    revenues $398 million; expenditures $510 million, including capital
    expenditures of $154 million (FY91 est.)
Exports:
    $390 million (f.o.b., 1990 est.)
  commodities:
    tobacco, tea, sugar, coffee, peanuts
  partners:
    US, UK, Zambia, South Africa, Germany
Imports:
    $560 million (c.i.f., 1990 est.)
  commodities:
    food, petroleum, semimanufactures, consumer goods, transportation equipment
  partners:
    South Africa, Japan, US, UK, Zimbabwe
External debt:
    $1.8 billion (December 1991 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 4.0% (1990 est.); accounts for about 18% of GDP (1988)
Electricity:
    185,000 kW capacity; 550 million kWh produced, 60 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    agricultural processing (tea, tobacco, sugar), sawmilling, cement, consumer
    goods
Agriculture:
    accounts for 40% of GDP; cash crops - tobacco, sugarcane, cotton, tea, and
    corn; subsistence crops - potatoes, cassava, sorghum, pulses; livestock -
    cattle and goats
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $215 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $2,150 million
Currency:
    Malawian kwacha (plural - kwacha); 1 Malawian kwacha (MK) = 100 tambala
Exchange rates:
    Malawian kwacha (MK) per US$1 - 2.7200 (January 1992), 2.8033 (1991), 2.7289
    (1990), 2.7595 (1989), 2.5613 (1988), 2.2087 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    1 April - 31 March

:Malawi Communications

Railroads:
    789 km 1.067-meter gauge
Highways:
    13,135 km total; 2,364 km paved; 251 km crushed stone, gravel, or stabilized
    soil; 10,520 km earth and improved earth
Inland waterways:
    Lake Nyasa (Lake Malawi); Shire River, 144 km
Ports:
    Chipoka, Monkey Bay, Nkhata Bay, and Nkotakota - all on Lake Nyasa (Lake
    Malawi)
Civil air:
    5 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    48 total, 43 usable; 6 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 1 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 9 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    fair system of open-wire lines, radio relay links, and radio communications
    stations; 42,250 telephones; broadcast stations - 10 AM, 17 FM, no TV;
    satellite earth stations - 1 Indian Ocean INTELSAT and 1 Atlantic Ocean
    INTELSAT
Note:
    a majority of exports would normally go through Mozambique on the Beira or
    Nacala railroads, but now most go through South Africa because of insurgent
    activity and damage to rail lines

:Malawi Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army (including Air Wing and Naval Detachment), Police (including
    paramilitary Mobile Force Unit), paramilitary Malawi Young Pioneers
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 2,000,406; 1,016,901 fit for military service
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $22 million, 1.6% of GDP (1989 est.)

:Malaysia Geography

Total area:
    329,750 km2
Land area:
    328,550 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than New Mexico
Land boundaries:
    2,669 km; Brunei 381 km, Indonesia 1,782, Thailand 506 km
Coastline:
    4,675 km; Peninsular Malaysia 2,068 km, East Malaysia 2,607 km
Maritime claims:
  Continental shelf:
    200 m (depth) or to depth of exploitation, specified boundary in the South
    China Sea
  Exclusive fishing zone:
    200 nm
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    involved in a complex dispute over the Spratly Islands with China,
    Philippines, Taiwan, Vietnam, and possibly Brunei; State of Sabah claimed by
    the Philippines; Brunei may wish to purchase the Malaysian salient that
    divides Brunei into two parts; two islands in dispute with Singapore
Climate:
    tropical; annual southwest (April to October) and northeast (October to
    February) monsoons
Terrain:
    coastal plains rising to hills and mountains
Natural resources:
    tin, crude oil, timber, copper, iron ore, natural gas, bauxite
Land use:
    arable land 3%; permanent crops 10%; meadows and pastures NEGL%; forest and
    woodland 63%; other 24%; includes irrigated 1%
Environment:
    subject to flooding; air and water pollution
Note:
    strategic location along Strait of Malacca and southern South China Sea

:Malaysia People

Population:
    18,410,920 (July 1992), growth rate 2.4% (1992)
Birth rate:
    29 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    6 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    27 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    66 years male, 71 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    3.6 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Malaysian(s); adjective - Malaysian
Ethnic divisions:
    Malay and other indigenous 59%, Chinese 32%, Indian 9%
Religions:
    Peninsular Malaysia - Malays nearly all Muslim, Chinese predominantly
    Buddhists, Indians predominantly Hindu; Sabah - Muslim 38%, Christian 17%,
    other 45%; Sarawak - tribal religion 35%, Buddhist and Confucianist 24%,
    Muslim 20%, Christian 16%, other 5%
Languages:
    Peninsular Malaysia - Malay (official); English, Chinese dialects, Tamil;
    Sabah - English, Malay, numerous tribal dialects, Mandarin and Hakka
    dialects predominate among Chinese; Sarawak - English, Malay, Mandarin,
    numerous tribal languages
Literacy:
    78% (male 86%, female 70%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    7,258,000 (1991 est.)
Organized labor:
    640,000; 10% of total labor force (1990)

:Malaysia Government

Long-form name:
    none
Type:
    Federation of Malaysia formed 9 July 1963; constitutional monarchy nominally
    headed by the paramount ruler (king) and a bicameral Parliament; Peninsular
    Malaysian states - hereditary rulers in all but Melaka, where governors are
    appointed by Malaysian Pulau Pinang Government; powers of state governments
    are limited by federal Constitution; Sabah - self-governing state, holds 20
    seats in House of Representatives, with foreign affairs, defense, internal
    security, and other powers delegated to federal government; Sarawak -
    self-governing state within Malaysia, holds 27 seats in House of
    Representatives, with foreign affairs, defense, internal security, and other
    powers delegated to federal government
Capital:
    Kuala Lumpur
Administrative divisions:
    13 states (negeri-negeri, singular - negeri) and 2 federal territories*
    (wilayah-wilayah persekutuan, singular - wilayah persekutuan); Johor, Kedah,
    Kelantan, Labuan*, Melaka, Negeri Sembilan, Pahang, Perak, Perlis, Pulau
    Pinang, Sabah, Sarawak, Selangor, Terengganu, Wilayah Persekutuan*
Independence:
    31 August 1957 (from UK)
Constitution:
    31 August 1957, amended 16 September 1963 when Federation of Malaya became
    Federation of Malaysia
Legal system:
    based on English common law; judicial review of legislative acts in the
    Supreme Court at request of supreme head of the federation; has not accepted
    compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
National holiday:
    National Day, 31 August (1957)
Executive branch:
    paramount ruler, deputy paramount ruler, prime minister, deputy prime
    minister, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    bicameral Parliament (Parlimen) consists of an upper house or Senate (Dewan
    Negara) and a lower house or House of Representatives (Dewan Rakyat)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Paramount Ruler AZLAN Muhibbuddin Shah ibni Sultan Yusof Izzudin (since 26
    April 1989); Deputy Paramount Ruler JA'AFAR ibni Abdul Rahman (since 26
    April 1989)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Dr. MAHATHIR bin Mohamad (since 16 July 1981); Deputy Prime
    Minister Abdul GHAFAR Bin Baba (since 7 May 1986)
Political parties and leaders:
  Peninsular Malaysia:
    National Front, a confederation of 13 political parties dominated by United
    Malays National Organization Baru (UMNO Baru), MAHATHIR bin Mohamad;
    Malaysian Chinese Association (MCA), LING Liong Sik; Gerakan Rakyat
    Malaysia, Datuk LIM Keng Yaik; Malaysian Indian Congress (MIC), Datuk S.
    Samy VELLU
  Sabah:
    Berjaya Party, Datuk Haji Mohammed NOOR Mansor; Bersatu Sabah (PBS), Joseph
    Pairin KITINGAN; United Sabah National Organizaton (USNO), leader NA

:Malaysia Government

  Sarawak:
    coalition Sarawak National Front composed of the Party Pesaka Bumiputra
    Bersatu (PBB), Datuk Patinggi Amar Haji Abdul TAIB Mahmud; Sarawak United
    People's Party (SUPP), Datuk Amar James WONG Soon Kai; Sarawak National
    Party (SNAP), Datuk Amar James WONG; Parti Bansa Dayak Sarawak (PBDS), Datuk
    Leo MOGGIE; major opposition parties are Democratic Action Party (DAP), LIM
    Kit Siang and Pan-Malaysian Islamic Party (PAS), Fadzil NOOR
Suffrage:
    universal at age 21
Elections:
  House of Representatives:
    last held 21 October 1990 (next to be held by August 1995); results -
    National Front 52%, other 48%; seats - (180 total) National Front 127, DAP
    20, PAS 7, independents 4, other 22; note - within the National Front, UMNO
    got 71 seats and MCA 18 seats
Member of:
    APEC, AsDB, ASEAN, C, CCC, CP, ESCAP, FAO, G-15, G-77, GATT, IAEA, IBRD,
    ICAO, ICFTU, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INMARSAT, INTELSAT,
    INTERPOL, IOC, ISO, ITU, LORCS, NAM, OIC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO,
    UNIIMOG, UPU, WCL, WHO, WIPO, WMO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Abdul MAJID Mohamed; Chancery at 2401 Massachusetts Avenue NW,
    Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 328-2700; there are Malaysian
    Consulates General in Los Angeles and New York
  US:
    Ambassador Paul M. CLEVELAND; Embassy at 376 Jalan Tun Razak, 50400 Kuala
    Lumpur (mailing address is P. O. Box No. 10035, 50700 Kuala Lumpur);
    telephone [60] (3) 248-9011; FAX [60] (3) 242-2207
Flag:
    fourteen equal horizontal stripes of red (top) alternating with white
    (bottom); there is a blue rectangle in the upper hoist-side corner bearing a
    yellow crescent and a yellow fourteen-pointed star; the crescent and the
    star are traditional symbols of Islam; the design was based on the flag of
    the US

:Malaysia Economy

Overview:
    During the period 1988-91 booming exports helped Malaysia continue to
    recover from the severe 1985-86 recession. Real output grew by 8.8% in 1989,
    10% in 1990, and 8.6% in 1991, helped by vigorous growth in manufacturing
    output, further increases in foreign direct investment - particularly from
    Japanese and Taiwanese firms facing higher costs at home - and increased oil
    production. Malaysia has become the world's third-largest producer of
    semiconductor devices (after the US and Japan) and the world's largest
    exporter of semiconductor devices. Inflation has remained low; unemployment
    has stood at 6% of the labor force; and the government has followed prudent
    fiscal/monetary policies. The country is not self-sufficient in food, and
    some of the rural population subsist at the poverty level. Malaysia's high
    export dependence leaves it vulnerable to a recession in the OECD countries
    or a fall in world commodity prices.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $48.0 billion, per capita $2,670; real growth
    rate 8.6% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    4.5% (1991 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    5.8% (1991 est.)
Budget:
    revenues $12.2 billion; expenditures $14.4 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $3.2 billion (1991 est.)
Exports:
    $35.4 billion (f.o.b., 1991)
  commodities:
    electrical manufactures, crude petroleum, timber, rubber, palm oil, textiles
  partners:
    Singapore, US, Japan, EC
Imports:
    $38.7 billion (c.i.f., 1991)
  commodities:
    food, crude oil, consumer goods, intermediate goods, capital equipment,
    chemicals
  partners:
    Japan, US, Singapore, Germany, UK
External debt:
    $21.3 billion (1991 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 18% (1990); accounts for 40% of GDP
Electricity:
    5,600,000 kW capacity; 16,500 million kWh produced, 940 kWh per capita
    (1990)
Industries:
  Peninsular Malaysia:
    rubber and oil palm processing and manufacturing, light manufacturing
    industry, electronics, tin mining and smelting, logging and processing
    timber
  Sabah:
    logging, petroleum production
  Sarawak:
    agriculture processing, petroleum production and refining, logging
Agriculture:
  Peninsular Malaysia:
    natural rubber, palm oil, rice
  Sabah:
    mainly subsistence, but also rubber, timber, coconut, rice

:Malaysia Economy

  Sarawak:
    rubber, timber, pepper; there is a deficit of rice in all areas; fish catch
    of 608,000 metric tons in 1987
Illicit drugs:
    transit point for Golden Triangle heroin going to the US, Western Europe,
    and the Third World
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-84), $170 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $4.7 million; OPEC
    bilateral aid (1979-89), $42 million
Currency:
    ringgit (plural - ringgits); 1 ringgit (M$) = 100 sen
Exchange rates:
    ringgits (M$) per US$1 - 2.6930 (January 1992), 2.7501 (1991), 1.7048
    (1990), 2.7088 (1989), 2.6188 (1988), 2.5196 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Malaysia Communications

Railroads:
  Peninsular Malaysia:
    1,665 km 1.04-meter gauge; 13 km double track, government owned
Railroads:
  Sabah:
    136 km 1.000-meter gauge
Highways:
  Peninsular Malaysia:
    23,600 km (19,352 km hard surfaced, mostly bituminous-surface treatment, and
    4,248 km unpaved)
  Sabah:
    3,782 km
  Sarawak:
    1,644 km
Inland waterways:
  Peninsular Malaysia:
    3,209 km
  Sabah:
    1,569 km
  Sarawak:
    2,518 km
Pipelines:
    crude oil 1,307 km; natural gas 379 km
Ports:
    Tanjong Kidurong, Kota Kinabalu, Kuching, Pasir Gudang, Penang, Port Kelang,
    Sandakan, Tawau
Merchant marine:
    167 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 1,653,633 GRT/2,444,393 DWT; includes
    1 passenger-cargo, 1 short-sea passenger, 64 cargo, 27 container, 2 vehicle
    carrier, 2 roll-on/roll-off, 1 livestock carrier, 37 petroleum tanker, 5
    chemical tanker, 6 liquefied gas, 21 bulk
Civil air:
    53 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    115 total, 108 usable; 33 with permanent-surface runways; 1 with runways
    over 3,659 m; 7 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 18 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    good intercity service provided to Peninsular Malaysia mainly by radio
    relay; adequate intercity radio relay network between Sabah and Sarawak via
    Brunei; international service good; good coverage by radio and television
    broadcasts; 994,860 telephones (1984); broadcast stations - 28 AM, 3 FM, 33
    TV; submarine cables extend to India and Sarawak; SEACOM submarine cable
    links to Hong Kong and Singapore; satellite earth stations - 1 Indian Ocean
    INTELSAT and 1 Pacific Ocean INTELSAT, and 2 domestic

:Malaysia Defense Forces

Branches:
    Royal Malaysian Army, Royal Malaysian Navy, Royal Malaysian Air Force, Royal
    Malaysian Police Force, Marine Police, Sarawak Border Scouts
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 4,728,103; 2,878,574 fit for military service; 179,486 reach
    military age (21) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $2.4 billion, about 5% of GDP (1992 budget)

:Maldives Geography

Total area:
    300 km2
Land area:
    300 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly more than 1.5 times the size of Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    644 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive economic zone:
    35-310 nm (defined by geographic coordinates; segment of zone coincides with
    maritime boundary with India)
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    tropical; hot, humid; dry, northeast monsoon (November to March); rainy,
    southwest monsoon (June to August)
Terrain:
    flat with elevations only as high as 2.5 meters
Natural resources:
    fish
Land use:
    arable land 10%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 3%; forest and
    woodland 3%; other 84%
Environment:
    1,200 coral islands grouped into 19 atolls
Note:
    archipelago of strategic location astride and along major sea lanes in
    Indian Ocean

:Maldives People

Population:
    234,371 (July 1992), growth rate 3.7% (1992)
Birth rate:
    45 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    8 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    61 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    62 years male, 64 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    6.5 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Maldivian(s); adjective - Maldivian
Ethnic divisions:
    Maldivians are a generally homogenous admixture of Sinhalese, Dravidian,
    Arab, Austrolasian, and African
Religions:
    Sunni Muslim
Languages:
    Divehi (dialect of Sinhala; script derived from Arabic); English spoken by
    most government officials
Literacy:
    92% (male 92%, female 92%) age 15 and over can read and write (1985)
Labor force:
    66,000 (est.); 25% engaged in fishing industry
Organized labor:
    none

:Maldives Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Maldives
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Male
Administrative divisions:
    19 district (atolls); Aliff, Baa, Daalu, Faafu, Gaafu Aliff, Gaafu Daalu,
    Haa Aliff, Haa Daalu, Kaafu, Laamu, Laviyani, Meemu, Naviyani, Noonu, Raa,
    Seenu, Shaviyani, Thaa, Waavu
Independence:
    26 July 1965 (from UK)
Constitution:
    4 June 1964
Legal system:
    based on Islamic law with admixtures of English common law primarily in
    commercial matters; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 26 July (1965)
Executive branch:
    president, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Citizens' Council (Majlis)
Judicial branch:
    High Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State and Head of Government:
    President Maumoon Abdul GAYOOM (since 11 November 1978)
Political parties and leaders:
    no organized political parties; country governed by the Didi clan for the
    past eight centuries
Suffrage:
    universal at age 21
Elections:
  President:
    last held 23 September 1988 (next to be held September 1994); results -
    President Maumoon Abdul GAYOOM reelected
  Citizens' Council:
    last held on 7 December 1989 (next to be held 7 December 1994); results -
    percent of vote NA; seats - (48 total, 40 elected)
Member of:
    AsDB, C, CP, ESCAP, FAO, G-77, GATT, IBRD, ICAO, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IMF,
    IMO, INTERPOL, IOC, ITU, NAM, OIC, SAARC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU,
    WHO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Maldives does not maintain an embassy in the US, but does have a UN mission
    in New York
  US:
    the US Ambassador to Sri Lanka is accredited to Maldives and makes periodic
    visits there; US Consular Agency, Midhath Hilmy, Male; telephone 2581
Flag:
    red with a large green rectangle in the center bearing a vertical white
    crescent; the closed side of the crescent is on the hoist side of the flag

:Maldives Economy

Overview:
    The economy is based on fishing, tourism, and shipping. Agriculture is
    limited to the production of a few subsistence crops that provide only 10%
    of food requirements. Fishing is the largest industry, employing 25% of the
    work force and accounting for over 60% of exports; it is also an important
    source of government revenue. During the 1980s tourism has become one of the
    most important and highest growth sectors of the economy. In 1988 industry
    accounted for about 5% of GDP. Real GDP is officially estimated to have
    increased by about 10% annually during the period 1974-90.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $174 million, per capita $770 (1988); real growth
    rate 10.1% (1990 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    10.7% (1990 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    NEGL%
Budget:
    revenues $67 million; expenditures $82 million, including capital
    expenditures of $45 million (1990 est.)
Exports:
    $52.0 million (f.o.b., 1990)
  commodities:
    fish 57%, clothing 25%
  partners:
    US, UK, Sri Lanka
Imports:
    $128.9 million (c.i.f., 1990)
  commodities:
    consumer goods 54%, intermediate and capital goods 33%, petroleum products
    13%
  partners:
    Singapore, Germany, Sri Lanka, India
External debt:
    $70 million (December 1989)
Industrial production:
    growth rate -5.0% (1988); accounts for 6% of GDP
Electricity:
    5,000 kW capacity; 11 million kWh produced, 50 kWh per capita (1990)
Industries:
    fishing and fish processing, tourism, shipping, boat building, some coconut
    processing, garments, woven mats, coir (rope), handicrafts
Agriculture:
    accounts for almost 30% of GDP (including fishing); fishing more important
    than farming; limited production of coconuts, corn, sweet potatoes; most
    staple foods must be imported; fish catch of 67,000 tons (1990 est.)
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-88), $28 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $125 million; OPEC
    bilateral aid (1979-89), $14 million
Currency:
    rufiyaa (plural - rufiyaa); 1 rufiyaa (Rf) = 100 laaris
Exchange rates:
    rufiyaa (Rf) per US$1 - 10.234 (January 1992), 10.253 (1991), 9.509 (1990),
    9.0408 (1989), 8.7846 (1988), 9.2230 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Maldives Communications

Highways:
    Male has 9.6 km of coral highways within the city
Ports:
    Male, Gan
Merchant marine:
    13 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 37,293 GRT/56,246 DWT; includes 11
    cargo, 1 container, 1 petroleum tanker
Civil air:
    1 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    2 with permanent-surface runways 2,440-3,659 m
Telecommunications:
    minimal domestic and international facilities; 2,804 telephones; broadcast
    stations - 2 AM, 1 FM, 1 TV; 1 Indian Ocean INTELSAT earth station

:Maldives Defense Forces

Branches:
    National Security Service (paramilitary police force)
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 52,195; 29,162 fit for military service
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $1.8 million, NA% of GDP (1984 est.)

:Mali Geography

Total area:
    1,240,000 km2
Land area:
    1,220,000 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly less than twice the size of Texas
Land boundaries:
    7,243 km; Algeria 1,376 km, Burkina 1,000 km, Guinea 858 km, Ivory Coast 532
    km, Mauritania 2,237 km, Niger 821 km, Senegal 419 km
Coastline:
    none - landlocked
Maritime claims:
    none - landlocked
Disputes:
    the disputed international boundary between Burkina and Mali was submitted
    to the International Court of Justice (ICJ) in October 1983 and the ICJ
    issued its final ruling in December 1986, which both sides agreed to accept;
    Burkina and Mali are proceeding with boundary demarcation, including the
    tripoint with Niger
Climate:
    subtropical to arid; hot and dry February to June; rainy, humid, and mild
    June to November; cool and dry November to February
Terrain:
    mostly flat to rolling northern plains covered by sand; savanna in south,
    rugged hills in northeast
Natural resources:
    gold, phosphates, kaolin, salt, limestone, uranium; bauxite, iron ore,
    manganese, tin, and copper deposits are known but not exploited
Land use:
    arable land 2%; permanent crops NEGL%; meadows and pastures 25%; forest and
    woodland 7%; other 66%; includes irrigated NEGL%
Environment:
    hot, dust-laden harmattan; haze common during dry seasons; desertification
Note:
    landlocked

:Mali People

Population:
    8,641,178 (July 1992), growth rate 2.5% (1992)
Birth rate:
    52 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    21 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    -5 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    110 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    43 years male, 47 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    7.3 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Malian(s); adjective - Malian
Ethnic divisions:
    Mande (Bambara, Malinke, Sarakole) 50%, Peul 17%, Voltaic 12%, Songhai 6%,
    Tuareg and Moor 5%, other 10%
Religions:
    Muslim 90%, indigenous beliefs 9%, Christian 1%
Languages:
    French (official); Bambara spoken by about 80% of the population; numerous
    African languages
Literacy:
    32% (male 41%, female 24%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    2,666,000 (1986 est.); agriculture 80%, services 19%, industry and commerce
    1% (1981); 50% of population of working age (1985)
Organized labor:
    National Union of Malian Workers (UNTM) is umbrella organization for over 13
    national unions

:Mali Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Mali
Type:
    republic; an interim government appointed by the national reform conference
    has organized a series of democratic elections and is scheduled to hand over
    power to an elected government on 26 March 1992
Capital:
    Bamako
Administrative divisions:
    8 regions (regions, singular - region); Gao, Kayes, Kidal, Koulikoro, Mopti,
    Segou, Sikasso, Tombouctou
Independence:
    22 September 1960 (from France; formerly French Sudan)
Constitution:
    2 June 1974, effective 19 June 1979; amended September 1981 and March 1985;
    new constitution presented during national reform conference in August 1991;
    a constitutional referendum is scheduled for 16 January 1992
Legal system:
    based on French civil law system and customary law; judicial review of
    legislative acts in Constitutional Section of Court of State; has not
    accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
National holiday:
    Anniversary of the Proclamation of the Republic, 22 September (1960)
Executive branch:
    Transition Committee for the Salvation of the People (CTSP) composed of 25
    members, predominantly civilian
Legislative branch:
    Transition Committee for the Salvation of the People (CTSP)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court (Cour Supreme)
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Lt. Col. Amadou Toumani TOURE
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Soumana SAKO (since 2 April 1991)
Political parties and leaders:
    formerly the only party, the Democratic Union of Malian People (UDPM), was
    disbanded after the coup of 26 March 1991, and the new regime legalized the
    formation of political parties on 5 April 1991; new political parties are
    Union of Democratic Forces (UFD), Demba DIALLO; Union for Democracy and
    Development (UDD), Moussa Bala COULIBALY; Sudanese Union/African Democratic
    Rally (US-RDA), Mamadou Madeira KEITA; African Party for Solidarity and
    Justice (ADEMA), Alpha Oumar KONARE; Party for Democracy and Progress (PDP),
    Idrissa TRAORE; Democratic Party for Justice (PDJ), Abdul BA; Rally for
    Democracy and Progress (RDP), Almany SYLLA; Party for the Unity of Malian
    People (PUPM), Nock AGATTIA; Hisboulah al Islamiya, Hamidou DRAMERA; Union
    of Progressive Forces (UFP), Yacouba SIDIBE; National Congress of Democratic
    Initiative (CNID), Mountaga TALL; Assembly for Justice and Progress, Kady
    DRAME; Sudanese Progressive Party (PPS), Sekene Mody SISSOKO; numerous small
    parties formed in 1991; 46 total parties
Suffrage:
    universal at age 21
Elections:
  President:
    last held on 9 June 1985 (next to be held March 1992); results - Gen. Moussa
    TRAORE was reelected without opposition

:Mali Government

  National Assembly:
    last held on 26 June 1988 (next to be held NA 1992); results - UDPM was the
    only party; seats - (82 total) UDPM 82; note - following the military coup
    of 26 March 1991, President TRAORE was deposed and the UDPM was disbanded;
    the 25-member CTSP has instituted a multiparty system, and presidential
    elections are to be held on 26 March 1992 and legislative elections on 9
    February 1992 (new National Assembly to have 116 seats)
Member of:
    ACCT, ACP, AfDB, CCC, CEAO, ECA, ECOWAS, FAO, FZ, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
    IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, ITU, LORCS, NAM,
    OAU, OIC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WADB, WCL, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Mohamed Alhousseyni TOURE; Chancery at 2130 R Street NW,
    Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 332-2249 or 939-8950
  US:
    Ambassador Herbert D. GELBER; Embassy at Rue Rochester NY and Rue Mohamed
    V., Bamako (mailing address is B. P. 34, Bamako); telephone [223] 225470;
    FAX [233] 22-80-59
Flag:
    three equal vertical bands of green (hoist side), yellow, and red; uses the
    popular pan-African colors of Ethiopia

:Mali Economy

Overview:
    Mali is among the poorest countries in the world, with about 70% of its land
    area desert or semidesert. Economic activity is largely confined to the
    riverine area irrigated by the Niger. About 10% of the population live as
    nomads and some 80% of the labor force is engaged in agriculture and
    fishing. Industrial activity is concentrated on processing farm commodities.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $2.2 billion, per capita $265; real growth rate
    2.2% (1990 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    -1.6% (1990)
Unemployment rate:
    NA%
Budget:
    revenues $329 million; expenditures $519 million, including capital
    expenditures of $178 (1989 est.)
Exports:
    $285 million (f.o.b., 1989 est.)
  commodities:
    livestock, peanuts, dried fish, cotton, skins
  partners:
    mostly franc zone and Western Europe
Imports:
    $513 million (f.o.b., 1989 est.)
  commodities:
    textiles, vehicles, petroleum products, machinery, sugar, cereals
  partners:
    mostly franc zone and Western Europe
External debt:
    $2.2 billion (1989 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 19.9% (1989 est.); accounts for 7% of GDP
Electricity:
    260,000 kW capacity; 750 million kWh produced, 90 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    small local consumer goods and processing, construction, phosphate, gold,
    fishing
Agriculture:
    accounts for 50% of GDP; most production based on small subsistence farms;
    cotton and livestock products account for over 70% of exports; other crops -
    millet, rice, corn, vegetables, peanuts; livestock - cattle, sheep, and
    goats
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $349 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $3,020 million; OPEC
    bilateral aid (1979-89), $92 million; Communist countries (1970-89), $190
    million
Currency:
    Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (plural - francs); 1 CFA franc (CFAF)
    = 100 centimes
Exchange rates:
    Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (CFAF) per US$1 - 269.01 (January
    1992), 282.11 (1991), 272.26 (1990), 319.01 (1989), 297.85 (1988), 300.54
    (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Mali Communications

Railroads:
    642 km 1.000-meter gauge; linked to Senegal's rail system through Kayes
Highways:
    about 15,700 km total; 1,670 km paved, 3,670 km gravel and improved earth,
    10,360 km unimproved earth
Inland waterways:
    1,815 km navigable
Civil air:
    no major transport aircraft
Airports:
    35 total, 27 usable; 8 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 5 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 10 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    domestic system poor but improving; provides only minimal service with radio
    relay, wire, and radio communications stations; expansion of radio relay in
    progress; 11,000 telephones; broadcast stations - 2 AM, 2 FM, 2 TV;
    satellite earth stations - 1 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT and 1 Indian Ocean
    INTELSAT

:Mali Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Air Force, Gendarmerie, Republican Guard, National Guard, National
    Police, Surete Nationale
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 1,701,050; 966,293 fit for military service; no conscription
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $41 million, 2% of GDP (1989)

:Malta Geography

Total area:
    320 km2
Land area:
    320 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly less than twice the size of Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    140 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    24 nm
  Continental shelf:
    200 m (depth) or to depth of exploitation
  Exclusive fishing zone:
    25 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    Mediterranean with mild, rainy winters and hot, dry summers
Terrain:
    mostly low, rocky, flat to dissected plains; many coastal cliffs
Natural resources:
    limestone, salt
Land use:
    arable land 38%; permanent crops 3%; meadows and pastures 0%; forest and
    woodland 0%; other 59%; includes irrigated 3%
Environment:
    numerous bays provide good harbors; fresh water very scarce - increasing
    reliance on desalination
Note:
    strategic location in central Mediterranean, 93 km south of Sicily, 290 km
    north of Libya

:Malta People

Population:
    359,231 (July 1992), growth rate 0.8% (1992)
Birth rate:
    14 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    8 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    1 migrant/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    7 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    74 years male, 79 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    2.0 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Maltese (singular and plural); adjective - Maltese
Ethnic divisions:
    mixture of Arab, Sicilian, Norman, Spanish, Italian, English
Religions:
    Roman Catholic 98%
Languages:
    Maltese and English (official)
Literacy:
    84% (male 86%, female 82%) age 15 and over can read and write (1985)
Labor force:
    127,200; government (excluding job corps) 37%, services 26%, manufacturing
    22%, training programs 9%, construction 4%, agriculture 2% (1990)
Organized labor:
    about 40% of labor force

:Malta Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Malta
Type:
    parliamentary democracy
Capital:
    Valletta
Administrative divisions:
    none (administration directly from Valletta)
Independence:
    21 September 1964 (from UK)
Constitution:
    26 April 1974, effective 2 June 1974
Legal system:
    based on English common law and Roman civil law; has accepted compulsory ICJ
    jurisdiction, with reservations
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 21 September
Executive branch:
    president, prime minister, deputy prime minister, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    unicameral House of Representatives
Judicial branch:
    Constitutional Court and Court of Appeal
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Vincent (Censu) TABONE (since 4 April 1989)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Dr. Edward (Eddie) FENECH ADAMI (since 12 May 1987); Deputy
    Prime Minister Dr. Guido DE MARCO (since 14 May 1987)
Political parties and leaders:
    Nationalist Party (NP), Edward FENECH ADAMI; Malta Labor Party (MLP), Alfred
    SANT
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  House of Representatives:
    last held on 22 February 1992 (next to be held by February 1997); results -
    NP 51.8%, MLP 46.5%; seats - (usually 65 total) MLP 36, NP 29; note -
    additional seats are given to the party with the largest popular vote to
    ensure a legislative majority; current total 69 (MLP 33, NP 36 after
    adjustment)
Member of:
    C, CCC, CE, CSCE, EBRD, ECE, FAO, G-77, GATT, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, IFAD, ILO,
    IMF, IMO, INTERPOL, IOC, ITU, NAM, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL,
    WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Albert BORG OLIVIER DE PUGET; Chancery at 2017 Connecticut Avenue
    NW, Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 462-3611 or 3612; there is a
    Maltese Consulate General in New York
  US:
    Ambassador Sally J. NOVETZKE; Embassy at 2nd Floor, Development House, Saint
    Anne Street, Floriana, Valletta (mailing address is P. O. Box 535,
    Valletta); telephone [356] 240424, 240425, 243216, 243217, 243653, 223654;
    FAX same as phone numbers
Flag:
    two equal vertical bands of white (hoist side) and red; in the upper
    hoist-side corner is a representation of the George Cross, edged in red

:Malta Economy

Overview:
    Significant resources are limestone, a favorable geographic location, and a
    productive labor force. Malta produces only about 20% of its food needs, has
    limited freshwater supplies, and has no domestic energy sources.
    Consequently, the economy is highly dependent on foreign trade and services.
    Manufacturing and tourism are the largest contributors to the economy.
    Manufacturing accounts for about 27% of GDP, with the electronics and
    textile industries major contributors. In 1990 inflation was held to a low
    3.0%. Per capita GDP at $7,000 places Malta in the middle-income range of
    the world's nations.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $2.5 billion, per capita $7,000 (1991 est.); real
    growth rate 5.5% (1990)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    3.0% (1990)
Unemployment rate:
    3.8% (1990)
Budget:
    revenues $1.3 billion; expenditures $1.3 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $380 million (1992 plan)
Exports:
    $l.1 billion (f.o.b., 1990)
  commodities:
    clothing, textiles, footwear, ships
  partners:
    Italy 30%, Germany 22%, UK 11%
Imports:
    $2.0 billion (f.o.b., 1990)
  commodities:
    food, petroleum, machinery and semimanufactured goods
  partners:
    Italy 30%, UK 16%, Germany 13%, US 4%
External debt:
    $90 million, medium and long term (December 1987)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 19.0% (1990); accounts for 27% of GDP
Electricity:
    328,000 kW capacity; 1,110 million kWh produced, 2,990 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    tourism, electronics, ship repair yard, construction, food manufacturing,
    textiles, footwear, clothing, beverages, tobacco
Agriculture:
    accounts for 3% of GDP; overall, 20% self-sufficient; main products -
    potatoes, cauliflower, grapes, wheat, barley, tomatoes, citrus, cut flowers,
    green peppers, hogs, poultry, eggs; generally adequate supplies of
    vegetables, poultry, milk, pork products; seasonal or periodic shortages in
    grain, animal fodder, fruits, other basic foodstuffs
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-81), $172 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $336 million; OPEC
    bilateral aid (1979-89), $76 million; Communist countries (1970-88), $48
    million
Currency:
    Maltese lira (plural - liri); 1 Maltese lira (LM) = 100 cents
Exchange rates:
    Maltese liri (LM) per US$1 - 0.3257 (March 1992), 0.3004 (1991), 0.3172
    (1990), 0.3483 (1989), 0.3306 (1988), 0.3451 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    1 April - 31 March

:Malta Communications

Highways:
    1,291 km total; 1,179 km paved (asphalt), 77 km crushed stone or gravel, 35
    km improved and unimproved earth
Ports:
    Valletta, Marsaxlokk
Merchant marine:
    658 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 9,003,001 GRT/15,332,287 DWT;
    includes 3 passenger, 13 short-sea passenger, 241 cargo, 14 container, 2
    passenger-cargo, 16 roll-on/roll-off, 2 vehicle carrier, 1 barge carrier, 15
    refrigerated cargo, 11 chemical tanker, 12 combination ore/oil, 2
    specialized tanker, 3 liquefied gas, 124 petroleum tanker, 176 bulk, 23
    combination bulk; note - a flag of convenience registry; China owns 2 ships,
    former republics of the USSR own 52 ships, Cuba owns 10, Vietnam owns 6,
    Yugoslavia owns 9, Romania owns 4
Civil air:
    7 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    1 with permanent-surface runways 2,440-3,659 m
Telecommunications:
    automatic system satisfies normal requirements; 153,000 telephones;
    excellent service by broadcast stations - 8 AM, 4 FM, and 2 TV; submarine
    cable and radio relay between islands; international service by 1 submarine
    cable; 1 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT earth station

:Malta Defense Forces

Branches:
    Armed Forces, Maltese Police Force
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 95,661; 76,267 fit for military service
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $21.9 million, 1.3% of GDP (1989 est.)

:Man, Isle of Geography

Total area:
    588 km2
Land area:
    588 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly less than 3.5 times the size of Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    113 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive fishing zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    3 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    cool summers and mild winters; humid; overcast about half the time
Terrain:
    hills in north and south bisected by central valley
Natural resources:
    lead, iron ore
Land use:
    arable land NA%; permanent crops NA%; meadows and pastures NA%; forest and
    woodland NA%; other NA%; extensive arable land and forests
Environment:
    strong westerly winds prevail
Note:
    located in Irish Sea equidistant from England, Scotland, and Ireland

:Man, Isle of People

Population:
    64,068 (July 1992), growth rate 0.1% (1992)
Birth rate:
    11 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    14 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    4 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    9 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    72 years male, 78 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    1.8 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Manxman, Manxwoman; adjective - Manx
Ethnic divisions:
    native Manx of Norse-Celtic descent; British
Religions:
    Anglican, Roman Catholic, Methodist, Baptist, Presbyterian, Society of
    Friends
Languages:
    English, Manx Gaelic
Literacy:
    NA% (male NA%, female NA%) but compulsory education ages 5 to 16
Labor force:
    25,864 (1981)
Organized labor:
    22 labor unions patterned along British lines

:Man, Isle of Government

Long-form name:
    none
Type:
    British crown dependency
Capital:
    Douglas
Administrative divisions:
    none (British crown dependency)
Independence:
    none (British crown dependency)
Constitution:
    1961, Isle of Man Constitution Act
Legal system:
    English law and local statute
National holiday:
    Tynwald Day, 5 July
Executive branch:
    British monarch, lieutenant governor, prime minister, Executive Council
    (cabinet)
Legislative branch:
    bicameral Tynwald consists of an upper house or Legislative Council and a
    lower house or House of Keys
Judicial branch:
    High Court of Justice
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Lord of Mann Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952), represented by
    Lieutenant Governor Air Marshal Sir Laurence JONES (since NA 1990)
  Head of Government:
    President of the Legislative Council Sir Charles KERRUISH (since NA 1990)
Political parties and leaders:
    there is no party system and members sit as independents
Suffrage:
    universal at age 21
Elections:
  House of Keys:
    last held in 1991 (next to be held NA 1996); results - percent of vote NA;
    no party system; seats - (24 total) independents 24
Member of:
    none
Diplomatic representation:
    none (British crown dependency)
Flag:
    red with the Three Legs of Man emblem (Trinacria), in the center; the three
    legs are joined at the thigh and bent at the knee; in order to have the toes
    pointing clockwise on both sides of the flag, a two-sided emblem is used
    ria), in the center; the three legs are joined at the thigh and bent at the
    knee; in order to have the toes pointing clockwise on both sides of the
    flag, a two-sided emblem is used

:Man, Isle of Economy

Overview:
    Offshore banking, manufacturing, and tourism are key sectors of the economy.
    The government's policy of offering incentives to high-technology companies
    and financial institutions to locate on the island has paid off in expanding
    employment opportunities in high-income industries. As a result, agriculture
    and fishing, once the mainstays of the economy, have declined in their
    shares of GNP. Banking now contributes over 20% to GNP and manufacturing
    about 15%. Trade is mostly with the UK.
GNP:
    exchange rate conversion - $490 million, per capita $7,573; real growth rate
    NA% (1988)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    NA%
Unemployment rate:
    1.5% (1988)
Budget:
    revenues $130.4 million; expenditures $114.4 million, including capital
    expenditures of $18.1 million (FY85 est.)
Exports:
    $NA
  commodities:
    tweeds, herring, processed shellfish, meat
  partners:
    UK
Imports:
    $NA
  commodities:
    timber, fertilizers, fish
  partners:
    UK
External debt:
    $NA
Industrial production:
    growth rate NA%
Electricity:
    61,000 kW capacity; 190 million kWh produced, 2,930 kWh per capita (1989)
Industries:
    an important offshore financial center; financial services, light
    manufacturing, tourism
Agriculture:
    cereals and vegetables; cattle, sheep, pigs, poultry
Economic aid:
    NA
Currency:
    Manx pound (plural - pounds); 1 Manx pound (#M) = 100 pence
Exchange rates:
    Manx pounds (#M) per US$1 - 0.5799 (March 1992), 0.5652 (1991), 0.5603
    (1990), 0.6099 (1989), 0.5614 (1988), 0. 6102 (1987); the Manx pound is at
    par with the British pound
Fiscal year:
    1 April - 31 March

:Man, Isle of Communications

Railroads:
    36 km electric track, 24 km steam track
Highways:
    640 km motorable roads
Ports:
    Douglas, Ramsey, Peel
Merchant marine:
    79 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 1,436,196 GRT/2,479,432 DWT; includes
    12 cargo, 7 container, 10 roll-on/roll-off, 30 petroleum tanker, 4 chemical
    tanker, 5 liquefied gas, 11 bulk; note - a captive register of the United
    Kingdom, although not all ships on the register are British owned
Airports:
    1 total; 1 usable with permanent-surface runway 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    24,435 telephones; broadcast stations - 1 AM, 4 FM, 4 TV

:Man, Isle of Defense Forces

Note:
    defense is the responsibility of the UK

:Marshall Islands Geography

Total area:
    181.3 km2
Land area:
    181.3 km2; includes the atolls of Bikini, Eniwetok, and Kwajalein
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    370.4 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    24 nm
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    claims US territory of Wake Island
Climate:
    wet season May to November; hot and humid; islands border typhoon belt
Terrain:
    low coral limestone and sand islands
Natural resources:
    phosphate deposits, marine products, deep seabed minerals
Land use:
    arable land 0%; permanent crops 60%; meadows and pastures 0%; forest and
    woodland 0%; other 40%
Environment:
    occasionally subject to typhoons; two archipelagic island chains of 30
    atolls and 1,152 islands
Note:
    located 3,825 km southwest of Honolulu in the North Pacific Ocean, about
    two-thirds of the way between Hawaii and Papua New Guinea; Bikini and
    Eniwetok are former US nuclear test sites; Kwajalein, the famous World War
    II battleground, is now used as a US missile test range

:Marshall Islands People

Population:
    50,004 (July 1992), growth rate 3.9% (1992)
Birth rate:
    47 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    8 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    52 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    61 years male, 64 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    7.0 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Marshallese (singular and plural); adjective - Marshallese
Ethnic divisions:
    almost entirely Micronesian
Religions:
    predominantly Christian, mostly Protestant
Languages:
    English universally spoken and is the official language; two major
    Marshallese dialects from Malayo-Polynesian family; Japanese
Literacy:
    93% (male 100%, female 88%) age 15 and over can read and write (1980)
Labor force:
    4,800 (1986)
Organized labor:
    none

:Marshall Islands Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of the Marshall Islands
Type:
    constitutional government in free association with the US; the Compact of
    Free Association entered into force 21 October 1986
Capital:
    Majuro
Administrative divisions:
    none
Independence:
    21 October 1986 (from the US-administered UN trusteeship; formerly the
    Marshall Islands District of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands)
Constitution:
    1 May 1979
Legal system:
    based on adapted Trust Territory laws, acts of the legislature, municipal,
    common, and customary laws
National holiday:
    Proclamation of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, 1 May (1979)
Executive branch:
    president, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Nitijela (parliament)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State and Head of Government:
    President Amata KABUA (since 1979)
Political parties and leaders:
    no formal parties; President KABUA is chief political (and traditional)
    leader
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  President:
    last held 6 January 1992 (next to be held NA; results - President Amata
    KABUA was reelected
  Parliament:
    last held 18 November 1991 (next to be held November 1995); results -
    percent of vote NA; seats - (33 total)
Member of:
    AsDB, ESCAP (associate), ICAO, SPC, SPF, UN, UNCTAD
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Wilfred I. KENDALL; Chancery at 2433 Massachusetts Avenue, NW,
    Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 234-5414
  US:
    Ambassador William BODDE, Jr.; Embassy at NA address (mailing address is P.
    O. Box 1379, Majuro, Republic of the Marshall Islands 96960-1379); telephone
    (011) 692-4011; FAX (011) 692-4012
Flag:
    blue with two stripes radiating from the lower hoist-side corner - orange
    (top) and white; there is a white star with four large rays and 20 small
    rays on the hoist side above the two stripes

:Marshall Islands Economy

Overview:
    Agriculture and tourism are the mainstays of the economy. Agricultural
    production is concentrated on small farms, and the most important commercial
    crops are coconuts, tomatoes, melons, and breadfruit. A few cattle ranches
    supply the domestic meat market. Small-scale industry is limited to
    handicrafts, fish processing, and copra. The tourist industry is the primary
    source of foreign exchange and employs about 10% of the labor force. The
    islands have few natural resources, and imports far exceed exports. In 1987
    the US Government provided grants of $40 million out of the Marshallese
    budget of $55 million.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $63 million, per capita $1,500; real growth rate
    NA% (1989 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    NA
Unemployment rate:
    NA%
Budget:
    revenues $55 million; expenditures NA, including capital expenditures of NA
    (1987 est.)
Exports:
    $2.5 million (f.o.b., 1985)
  commodities:
    copra, copra oil, agricultural products, handicrafts
  partners:
    NA
Imports:
    $29.2 million (c.i.f., 1985)
  commodities:
    foodstuffs, beverages, building materials
  partners:
    NA
External debt:
    $NA
Industrial production:
    growth rate NA%
Electricity:
    42,000 kW capacity; 80 million kWh produced, 1,840 kWh per capita (1990)
Industries:
    copra, fish, tourism; craft items from shell, wood, and pearls; offshore
    banking (embryonic)
Agriculture:
    coconuts, cacao, taro, breadfruit, fruits, copra; pigs, chickens
Economic aid:
    under the terms of the Compact of Free Association, the US is to provide
    approximately $40 million in aid annually
Currency:
    US currency is used
Exchange rates:
    US currency is used
Fiscal year:
    1 October - 30 September

:Marshall Islands Communications

Highways:
    paved roads on major islands (Majuro, Kwajalein), otherwise stone-, coral-,
    or laterite-surfaced roads and tracks
Ports:
    Majuro
Merchant marine:
    32 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 2,347,312 GRT/4,630,172 DWT; includes
    2 cargo, 1 container, 9 petroleum tanker, 18 bulk carrier, 2 combination
    ore/oil; note - a flag of convenience registry
Airports:
    17 total, 16 usable; 4 with permanent-surface runways; 8 with runways
    1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    telephone network - 570 lines (Majuro) and 186 (Ebeye); telex services;
    islands interconnected by shortwave radio (used mostly for government
    purposes); broadcast stations - 1 AM, 2 FM, 1 TV, 1 shortwave; 2 Pacific
    Ocean INTELSAT earth stations; US Government satellite communications system
    on Kwajalein

:Marshall Islands Defense Forces

Note:
    defense is the responsibility of the US

:Martinique Geography

Total area:
    1,100 km2
Land area:
    1,060 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly more than six times the size of Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    290 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    tropical; moderated by trade winds; rainy season (June to October)
Terrain:
    mountainous with indented coastline; dormant volcano
Natural resources:
    coastal scenery and beaches, cultivable land
Land use:
    arable land 10%; permanent crops 8%; meadows and pastures 30%; forest and
    woodland 26%; other 26%; includes irrigated 5%
Environment:
    subject to hurricanes, flooding, and volcanic activity that result in an
    average of one major natural disaster every five years
Note:
    located 625 km southeast of Puerto Rico in the Caribbean Sea

:Martinique People

Population:
    371,803 (July 1992), growth rate 1.4% (1992)
Birth rate:
    19 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    6 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    1 migrant/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    11 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    75 years male, 81 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    1.9 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Martiniquais (singular and plural); adjective - Martiniquais
Ethnic divisions:
    African and African-Caucasian-Indian mixture 90%, Caucasian 5%, East Indian,
    Lebanese, Chinese less than 5%
Religions:
    Roman Catholic 95%, Hindu and pagan African 5%
Languages:
    French, Creole patois
Literacy:
    93% (male 92%, female 93%) age 15 and over can read and write (1982)
Labor force:
    100,000; service industry 31.7%, construction and public works 29.4%,
    agriculture 13.1%, industry 7.3%, fisheries 2.2%, other 16.3%
Organized labor:
    11% of labor force

:Martinique Government

Long-form name:
    Department of Martinique
Type:
    overseas department of France
Capital:
    Fort-de-France
Administrative divisions:
    none (overseas department of France)
Independence:
    none (overseas department of France)
Constitution:
    28 September 1958 (French Constitution)
Legal system:
    French legal system
National holiday:
    Taking of the Bastille, 14 July (1789)
Executive branch:
    government commissioner
Legislative branch:
    unicameral General Council
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Francois MITTERRAND (since 21 May 1981)
  Head of Government:
    Government Commissioner Jean Claude ROURE (since 5 May 1989); President of
    the General Council Emile MAURICE (since NA 1988)
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  General Council:
    last held in October 1988 (next to be held by March 1991); results - percent
    of vote by party NA; seats - (44 total) number of seats by party NA
  Regional Assembly:
    last held on 16 March 1986 (next to be held by March 1992); results -
    UDF/RPR coalition 49.8%, PPM/FSM/PCM coalition 41.3%, other 8.9%; seats -
    (41 total) PPM/FSM/PCM coalition 21, UDF/RPR coalition 20
  French Senate:
    last held 24 September 1989 (next to be held September 1992); results -
    percent of vote by party NA; seats - (2 total) UDF 1, PPM 1
  French National Assembly:
    last held on 5 and 12 June 1988 (next to be held June 1993); results -
    percent of vote by party NA; seats - (4 total) PPM 1, FSM 1, RPR 1, UDF 1
Communists:
    1,000 (est.)
Other political or pressure groups:
    Proletarian Action Group (GAP); Alhed Marie-Jeanne Socialist Revolution
    Group (GRS); Martinique Independence Movement (MIM); Caribbean Revolutionary
    Alliance (ARC); Central Union for Martinique Workers (CSTM), Marc Pulvar;
    Frantz Fanon Circle; League of Workers and Peasants
Member of:
    FZ, WCL
Diplomatic representation:
    as an overseas department of France, Martiniquais interests are represented
    in the US by France

:Martinique Government

  US:
    Consul General Raymond G. ROBINSON; Consulate General at 14 Rue Blenac,
    Fort-de-France (mailing address is B. P. 561, Fort-de-France 97206);
    telephone [596] 63-13-03
Flag:
    the flag of France is used

:Martinique Economy

Overview:
    The economy is based on sugarcane, bananas, tourism, and light industry.
    Agriculture accounts for about 12% of GDP and the small industrial sector
    for 10%. Sugar production has declined, with most of the sugarcane now used
    for the production of rum. Banana exports are increasing, going mostly to
    France. The bulk of meat, vegetable, and grain requirements must be
    imported, contributing to a chronic trade deficit that requires large annual
    transfers of aid from France. Tourism has become more important than
    agricultural exports as a source of foreign exchange. The majority of the
    work force is employed in the service sector and in administration. In 1986
    per capita GDP was relatively high at $6,000. During 1986 the unemployment
    rate was 30% and was particularly severe among younger workers.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $2.0 billion, per capita $6,000; real growth rate
    NA% (1986)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    2.9% (1989)
Unemployment rate:
    30% (1986)
Budget:
    revenues $268 million; expenditures $268 million, including capital
    expenditures of $NA (1989 est.)
Exports:
    $196 million (f.o.b., 1988)
  commodities:
    refined petroleum products, bananas, rum, pineapples
  partners:
    France 65%, Guadeloupe 24%, Germany (1987)
Imports:
    $1.3 billion (c.i.f., 1988)
  commodities:
    petroleum products, foodstuffs, construction materials, vehicles, clothing
    and other consumer goods
  partners:
    France 65%, UK, Italy, Germany, Japan, US (1987)
External debt:
    $NA
Industrial production:
    growth rate NA%
Electricity:
    113,100 kW capacity; 588 million kWh produced, 1,703 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    construction, rum, cement, oil refining, sugar, tourism
Agriculture:
    including fishing and forestry, accounts for about 12% of GDP; principal
    crops - pineapples, avocados, bananas, flowers, vegetables, and sugarcane
    for rum; dependent on imported food, particularly meat and vegetables
Economic aid:
    Western (non-US) countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89),
    $10.1 billion
Currency:
    French franc (plural - francs); 1 French franc (F) = 100 centimes
Exchange rates:
    French francs (F) per US$1 - 5.3801 (January 1992), 5.6421 (1991), 5.4453
    (1990), 6.3801 (1989), 5.9569 (1988), 6.0107 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Martinique Communications

Highways:
    1,680 km total; 1,300 km paved, 380 km gravel and earth
Ports:
    Fort-de-France
Civil air:
    no major transport aircraft
Airports:
    2 total; 2 usable; 1 with permanent-surface runways; 1 with runway
    2,440-3,659 m; 1 with runways less than 2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    domestic facilities are adequate; 68,900 telephones; interisland radio relay
    links to Guadeloupe, Dominica, and Saint Lucia; broadcast stations - 1 AM, 6
    FM, 10 TV; 2 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT earth stations

:Martinique Defense Forces

Branches:
    French Forces, Gendarmerie
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 95,235; NA fit for military service
Note:
    defense is the responsibility of France

:Mauritania Geography

Total area:
    1,030,700 km2
Land area:
    1,030,400 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than three times the size of New Mexico
Land boundaries:
    5,074 km; Algeria 463 km, Mali 2,237 km, Senegal 813 km, Western Sahara
    1,561 km
Coastline:
    754 km
Maritime claims:
  Continental shelf:
    edge of continental margin or 200 nm
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    boundary with Senegal
Climate:
    desert; constantly hot, dry, dusty
Terrain:
    mostly barren, flat plains of the Sahara; some central hills
Natural resources:
    iron ore, gypsum, fish, copper, phosphate
Land use:
    arable land 1%; permanent crops NEGL%; meadows and pastures 38%; forest and
    woodland 5%; other 56%; includes irrigated NEGL%
Environment:
    hot, dry, dust/sand-laden sirocco wind blows primarily in March and April;
    desertification; only perennial river is the Senegal

:Mauritania People

Population:
    2,059,187 (July 1992), growth rate 3.1% (1992)
Birth rate:
    48 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    17 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    89 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    44 years male, 50 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    7.1 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Mauritanian(s); adjective - Mauritanian
Ethnic divisions:
    mixed Maur/black 40%, Maur 30%, black 30%
Religions:
    Muslim, nearly 100%
Languages:
    Hasaniya Arabic (official); Hasaniya Arabic, Pular, Soninke, Wolof
    (official)
Literacy:
    34% (male 47%, female 21%) age 10 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    465,000 (1981 est.); 45,000 wage earners (1980); agriculture 47%, services
    29%, industry and commerce 14%, government 10%; 53% of population of working
    age (1985)
Organized labor:
    30,000 members claimed by single union, Mauritanian Workers' Union

:Mauritania Government

Long-form name:
    Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Type:
    republic; military first seized power in bloodless coup 10 July 1978; a
    palace coup that took place on 12 December 1984 brought President Taya to
    power; he was elected in 1992
Capital:
    Nouakchott
Administrative divisions:
    12 regions(regions, singular - region); Adrar, Assaba, Brakna, Dakhlet
    Nouadhibou, Gorgol, Guidimaka, Hodh ech Chargui, Hodh el Gharbi, Inchiri,
    Tagant, Tiris Zemmour, Trarza; note - there may be a new capital district of
    Nouakchott
Independence:
    28 November 1960 (from France)
Constitution:
    currently 12 July 1991; 20 May 1961 Constitution abrogated after coup of 10
    July 1978; provisional constitution published 17 December 1980 but abandoned
    in 1981; constitutional charter published 27 February 1985 after Taya came
    to power; latest constitution approved after general referendum 12 July 1991
Legal system:
    based on Islamic law
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 28 November (1960)
Executive branch:
    president
Legislative branch:
    National Assembly (Assemblee Nationale) and Senate
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court (Cour Supreme)
Leaders:
  Chief of State and Head of Government:
    President Col. Maaouya Ould Sid`Ahmed TAYA (since 12 December 1984)
Political parties and leaders:
    legalized by constitution passed 12 July 1991; emerging parties include
    Democratic and Social Republican Party (PRDS), led by President Col. Maaouya
    Ould Sid`Ahmed TAYA; Union of Democratic Forces (UDF), coalition of seven
    opposition factions, three leaders: Mohameden Ould BABAH, Diop Mamadou
    AMADOU, and Messoud Ould BOULKHEIR; Assembly for Democracy (RDU), Mohamed
    Ould SIDI BABA; Rally for Democracy and Unity (RDUN), Mohamed Ould Sidi
    BABA; Popular Social and Democratic Union (UPSD), Mohamed Mahmoud Ould MAH;
    Progressive Popular Alliance (APP), Taleb Ould Jiddou Ould Mohamed LAGHDAF;
    Mauritanian Party for Renewal (PMR), Moulaye El Hassan Ould JEYID; National
    Avant-Garde Party (PAN or PAGN), Khattry Ould Taleb JIDDOU; Mauritanian
    Party of the Democratic Center (PCDM), Bamba Ould SIDI BADI; Union for
    Planning and Construction (UPC), Mohamed Ould EYAHA; Democratic Justice
    Party (PJD), Mohamed Abdallahi Ould EL BANE; Party for Liberty, Equality,
    and Justice (PLEJ), Ba Mamadou ALASSANE; Labor and National Unity Party
    (PTUN), Ali Bouna Ould OUENINA
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  President:
    last held January 1992 (next to be held NA)
  results:
    President Col. Maabuya Ould Sid`Ahmed TAYA elected
  Senate:
    last held 3 and 10 April 1992 (next to be held April 1998)

:Mauritania Government

  National Assembly:
    last held 6 and 13 March 1992 (next to be held NA 1997)
Member of:
    ABEDA, ACCT (associate), ACP, AfDB, AFESD, AL, AMF, AMU, CAEU, CCC, CEAO,
    ECA, ECOWAS, FAO, G-77, GATT, IBRD, ICAO, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF,
    IMO, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, ITU, LORCS, NAM, OAU, OIC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
    UNIDO, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Mohamed Fall OULD AININA; Chancery at 2129 Leroy Place NW,
    Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 232-5700
  US:
    Ambassador Gordon S. BROWN; Embassy at address NA, Nouakchott (mailing
    address is B. P. 222, Nouakchott); telephone [222] (2) 526-60 or 526-63; FAX
    [222] (2) 515-92
Flag:
    green with a yellow five-pointed star above a yellow, horizontal crescent;
    the closed side of the crescent is down; the crescent, star, and color green
    are traditional symbols of Islam

:Mauritania Economy

Overview:
    A majority of the population still depends on agriculture and livestock for
    a livelihood, even though most of the nomads and many subsistence farmers
    were forced into the cities by recurrent droughts in the 1970s and 1980s.
    Mauritania has extensive deposits of iron ore, which account for almost 50%
    of total exports. The decline in world demand for this ore, however, has led
    to cutbacks in production. The nation's coastal waters are among the richest
    fishing areas in the world, but overexploitation by foreigners threatens
    this key source of revenue. The country's first deepwater port opened near
    Nouakchott in 1986. In recent years, the droughts, the endemic conflict with
    Senegal, rising energy costs, and economic mismanagement have resulted in a
    substantial buildup of foreign debt. The government has begun the second
    stage of an economic reform program in consultation with the World Bank, the
    IMF, and major donor countries. But the reform process suffered a major
    setback following the Gulf war of early 1991. Because of Mauritania's
    support of Saddam Husayn, bilateral aid from its two top donors, Saudi
    Arabia and Kuwait, was suspended, and multilateral aid was reduced.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $1.1 billion, per capita $535; real growth rate
    3% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    6.5% (1990 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    20% (1991 est.)
Budget:
    revenues $280 million; expenditures $346 million, including capital
    expenditures of $61 million (1989 est.)
Exports:
    $436 million (f.o.b., 1990)
  commodities:
    iron ore, processed fish, small amounts of gum arabic and gypsum; unrecorded
    but numerically significant cattle exports to Senegal
  partners:
    EC 43%, Japan 27%, USSR 11%, Ivory Coast 3%
Imports:
    $389 million (c.i.f., 1990)
  commodities:
    foodstuffs, consumer goods, petroleum products, capital goods
  partners:
    EC 60%, Algeria 15%, China 6%, US 3%
External debt:
    $1.9 billion (1990)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 4.4% (1988 est.); accounts for almost 20% of GDP
Electricity:
    190,000 kW capacity; 135 million kWh produced, 70 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    fishing, fish processing, mining of iron ore and gypsum
Agriculture:
    accounts for 29% of GDP (including fishing); largely subsistence farming and
    nomadic cattle and sheep herding except in Senegal river valley; crops -
    dates, millet, sorghum, root crops; fish products number-one export; large
    food deficit in years of drought
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $168 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $1.3 billion; OPEC
    bilateral aid (1979-89), $490 million; Communist countries (1970-89), $277
    million; Arab Development Bank (1991), $20 million

:Mauritania Economy

Currency:
    ouguiya (plural - ouguiya); 1 ouguiya (UM) = 5 khoums
Exchange rates:
    ouguiya (UM) per US$1 - 79.300 (January 1992), 81.946 (1991), 80.609 (1990),
    83.051 (1989), 75.261 (1988), 73.878 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Mauritania Communications

Railroads:
    690 km 1.435-meter (standard) gauge, single track, owned and operated by
    government mining company
Highways:
    7,525 km total; 1,685 km paved; 1,040 km gravel, crushed stone, or otherwise
    improved; 4,800 km unimproved roads, trails, tracks
Inland waterways:
    mostly ferry traffic on the Senegal River
Ports:
    Nouadhibou, Nouakchott
Merchant marine:
    1 cargo ship (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 1,290 GRT/1,840 DWT
Civil air:
    3 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    28 total, 28 usable; 9 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 5 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 16 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    poor system of cable and open-wire lines, minor radio relay links, and radio
    communications stations (improvements being made); broadcast stations - 2
    AM, no FM, 1 TV; satellite earth stations - 1 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT and 2
    ARABSAT, with six planned

:Mauritania Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Navy, Air Force, National Gendarmerie, National Guard, National
    Police, Presidential Guard
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 436,897; 213,307 fit for military service; conscription law not
    implemented
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $40 million, 4.2% of GDP (1989)

:Mauritius Geography

Total area:
    1,860 km2
Land area:
    1,850 km2; includes Agalega Islands, Cargados Carajos Shoals (Saint
    Brandon), and Rodrigues
Comparative area:
    slightly less than 10.5 times the size of Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    177 km
Maritime claims:
  Continental shelf:
    edge of continental margin or 200 nm
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    claims UK-administered Chagos Archipelago, which includes the island of
    Diego Garcia in UK-administered British Indian Ocean Territory; claims
    French-administered Tromelin Island
Climate:
    tropical modified by southeast trade winds; warm, dry winter (May to
    November); hot, wet, humid summer (November to May)
Terrain:
    small coastal plain rising to discontinuous mountains encircling central
    plateau
Natural resources:
    arable land, fish
Land use:
    arable land 54%; permanent crops 4%; meadows and pastures 4%; forest and
    woodland 31%; other 7%; includes irrigated 9%
Environment:
    subject to cyclones (November to April); almost completely surrounded by
    reefs
Note:
    located 900 km east of Madagascar in the Indian Ocean

:Mauritius People

Population:
    1,092,130 (July 1992), growth rate 0.8% (1992)
Birth rate:
    19 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    7 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    -4 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    22 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    66 years male, 73 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    2.1 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Mauritian(s); adjective - Mauritian
Ethnic divisions:
    Indo-Mauritian 68%, Creole 27%, Sino-Mauritian 3%, Franco-Mauritian 2%
Religions:
    Hindu 52%, Christian (Roman Catholic 26%, Protestant 2.3%) 28.3%, Muslim
    16.6%, other 3.1%
Languages:
    English (official), Creole, French, Hindi, Urdu, Hakka, Bojpoori
Literacy:
    82.8 % (male 88.7%, female 77.1%) age 13 and over can read and write (1985
    UNESCO estimate)
Labor force:
    335,000; government services 29%, agriculture and fishing 27%, manufacturing
    22%, other 22%; 43% of population of working age (1985)
Organized labor:
    35% of labor force in more than 270 unions

:Mauritius Government

Long-form name:
    none
Type:
    parliamentary democracy
Capital:
    Port Louis
Administrative divisions:
    9 districts and 3 dependencies*; Agalega Islands*, Black River, Cargados
    Carajos*, Flacq, Grand Port, Moka, Pamplemousses, Plaines Wilhems, Port
    Louis, Riviere du Rempart, Rodrigues*, Savanne
Independence:
    12 March 1968 (from UK)
Constitution:
    12 March 1968
Legal system:
    based on French civil law system with elements of English common law in
    certain areas
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 12 March (1968)
Executive branch:
    British monarch, governor general, prime minister, deputy prime minister,
    Council of Ministers (cabinet)
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Legislative Assembly
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952), represented by Governor General
    Sir Veerasamy RINGADOO (since 17 January 1986)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Sir Anerood JUGNAUTH (since 12 June 1982); Deputy Prime
    Minister Prem NABABSING (since 26 September 1990)
Political parties and leaders:
  government coalition:
    Militant Socialist Movement (MSM), A. JUGNAUTH; Mauritian Militant Movement
    (MMM), Paul BERENGER; Organization of the People of Rodrigues (OPR), Louis
    Serge CLAIR; Democratic Labor Movement (MTD), Anil BAICHOO
  opposition:
    Mauritian Labor Party (MLP), Navin RAMGOOLMAN; Socialist Workers Front,
    Sylvio MICHEL; Mauritian Social Democratic Party (PMSD), G. DUVAL
Elections:
  Legislative Assembly:
    last held on 15 September 1991 (next to be held by 15 September 1996);
    results - MSM/MMM 53%, MLP/PMSD 38%; seats - (70 total, 62 elected) MSM/MMM
    alliance 59 (MSM 29, MMM 26, OPR 2, MTD 2); MLP/PMSD 3
Communists:
    may be 2,000 sympathizers
Other political or pressure groups:
    various labor unions
Member of:
    ACCT, ACP, AfDB, C, CCC, ECA, FAO, G-77, GATT, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, IDA,
    IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, ISO (correspondent), ITU,
    LORCS, NAM, OAU, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO,
    WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Chitmansing JESSERAMSING; Chancery at Suite 134, 4301 Connecticut
    Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 244-1491 or 1492

:Mauritius Government

  US:
    Ambassador Penne Percy KORTH; Embassy at 4th Floor, Rogers House, John
    Kennedy Street, Port Louis; telephone [230] 208-9763 through 208-9767; FAX
    [230] 208-9534
Flag:
    four equal horizontal bands of red (top), blue, yellow, and green

:Mauritius Economy

Overview:
    The economy is based on sugar, manufacturing (mainly textiles), and tourism.
    Sugarcane is grown on about 90% of the cultivated land area and accounts for
    40% of export earnings. The government's development strategy is centered on
    industrialization (with a view to exports), agricultural diversification,
    and tourism. Economic performance in FY91 was impressive, with 6% real
    growth and low unemployment.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $2.5 billion, per capita $2,300; real growth rate
    6.1% (FY91 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    13.2% (FY91 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    2.4% (1991 est.)
Budget:
    revenues $557 million; expenditures $607 million, including capital
    expenditures of $111 million (FY90)
Exports:
    $1.2 billion (f.o.b., 1990)
  commodities:
    textiles 44%, sugar 40%, light manufactures 10%
  partners:
    EC and US have preferential treatment, EC 77%, US 15%
Imports:
    $1.6 billion (f.o.b., 1990)
  commodities:
    manufactured goods 50%, capital equipment 17%, foodstuffs 13%, petroleum
    products 8%, chemicals 7%
  partners:
    EC, US, South Africa, Japan
External debt:
    $869 million (1991 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 12.9% (FY87); accounts for 25% of GDP
Electricity:
    235,000 kW capacity; 425 million kWh produced, 395 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    food processing (largely sugar milling), textiles, wearing apparel,
    chemicals, metal products, transport equipment, nonelectrical machinery,
    tourism
Agriculture:
    accounts for 10% of GDP; about 90% of cultivated land in sugarcane; other
    products - tea, corn, potatoes, bananas, pulses, cattle, goats, fish; net
    food importer, especially rice and fish
Illicit drugs:
    illicit producer of cannabis for the international drug trade
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $76 million; Western (non-US)
    countries (1970-89), $709 million; Communist countries (1970-89), $54
    million
Currency:
    Mauritian rupee (plural - rupees); 1 Mauritian rupee (MauR) = 100 cents
Exchange rates:
    Mauritian rupees (MauRs) per US$1 - 15.198 (January 1992), 15.652 (1991),
    14.839 (1990), 15.250 (1989), 13.438 (1988), 12.878 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    1 July - 30 June

:Mauritius Communications

Highways:
    1,800 km total; 1,640 km paved, 160 km earth
Ports:
    Port Louis
Merchant marine:
    9 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 94,710 GRT/150,345 DWT; includes 1
    passenger-cargo, 3 cargo, 1 roll-on/roll-off, 1 liquefied gas, 3 bulk
Civil air:
    7 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    5 total, 4 usable; 2 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways over
    3,659 m; 1 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; none with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    small system with good service utilizing primarily radio relay; new
    microwave link to Reunion; high-frequency radio links to several countries;
    over 48,000 telephones; broadcast stations - 2 AM, no FM, 4 TV; 1 Indian
    Ocean INTELSAT earth station

:Mauritius Defense Forces

Branches:
    paramilitary Special Mobile Force, Special Support Unit, National Police
    Force, National Coast Guard
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 307,237; 157,246 fit for military service
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $5 million, 0.2% of GDP (FY89)

:Mayotte Geography

Total area:
    375 km2
Land area:
    375 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly more than twice the size of Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    185.2 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    claimed by Comoros
Climate:
    tropical; marine; hot, humid, rainy season during northeastern monsoon
    (November to May); dry season is cooler (May to November)
Terrain:
    generally undulating with ancient volcanic peaks, deep ravines
Natural resources:
    negligible
Land use:
    arable land NA%; permanent crops NA%; meadows and pastures NA%; forest and
    woodland NA%; other NA%
Environment:
    subject to cyclones during rainy season
Note:
    part of Comoro Archipelago; located in the Mozambique Channel about halfway
    between Africa and Madagascar

:Mayotte People

Population:
    86,628 (July 1992), growth rate 3.8% (1992)
Birth rate:
    50 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    12 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    84 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    55 years male, 59 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    6.9 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Mahorais (singular and plural); adjective - Mahoran
Religions:
    Muslim 99%; remainder Christian, mostly Roman Catholic
Languages:
    Mahorian (a Swahili dialect), French
Literacy:
    NA% (male NA%, female NA%)
Labor force:
    NA
Organized labor:
    NA

:Mayotte Government

Long-form name:
    Territorial Collectivity of Mayotte
Type:
    territorial collectivity of France
Capital:
    Mamoutzou
Administrative divisions:
    none (territorial collectivity of France)
Independence:
    none (territorial collectivity of France)
Constitution:
    28 September 1958 (French Constitution)
Legal system:
    French law
National holiday:
    Taking of the Bastille, 14 July (1789)
Executive branch:
    government commissioner
Legislative branch:
    unicameral General Council (Conseil General)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court (Tribunal Superieur d'Appel)
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Francois MITTERRAND (since 21 May 1981)
  Head of Government:
    Commissioner, Representative of the French Government Jean-Paul COSTE (since
    NA 1991); President of the General Council Youssouf BAMANA (since NA 1976)
Political parties and leaders:
    Mahoran Popular Movement (MPM), Younoussa BAMANA; Party for the Mahoran
    Democratic Rally (PRDM), Daroueche MAOULIDA; Mahoran Rally for the Republic
    (RMPR), Mansour KAMARDINE; Union of the Center (UDC)
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  General Council:
    last held June 1988 (next to be held June 1993); results - percent of vote
    by party NA; seats - (17 total) MPM 9, RPR 6, other 2
  French Senate:
    last held on 24 September 1989 (next to be held September 1992); results -
    percent of vote by party NA; seats - (1 total) MPM 1
  French National Assembly:
    last held 5 and 12 June 1988 (next to be held June 1993); results - percent
    of vote by party NA; seats - (1 total) UDC 1
Member of:
    FZ
Diplomatic representation:
    as a territorial collectivity of France, Mahoran interests are represented
    in the US by France
Flag:
    the flag of France is used

:Mayotte Economy

Overview:
    Economic activity is based primarily on the agricultural sector, including
    fishing and livestock raising. Mayotte is not self-sufficient and must
    import a large portion of its food requirements, mainly from France. The
    economy and future development of the island is heavily dependent on French
    financial assistance.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $NA, per capita $NA; real growth rate NA%
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    NA%
Unemployment rate:
    NA%
Budget:
    revenues $NA; expenditures $37.3 million, including capital expenditures of
    $NA (1985)
Exports:
    $4.0 million (f.o.b., 1984)
  commodities:
    ylang-ylang, vanilla
  partners:
    France 79%, Comoros 10%, Reunion 9%
Imports:
    $21.8 million (f.o.b., 1984)
  commodities:
    building materials, transportation equipment, rice, clothing, flour
  partners:
    France 57%, Kenya 16%, South Africa 11%, Pakistan 8%
External debt:
    $NA
Industrial production:
    growth rate NA%
Electricity:
    NA kW capacity; NA million kWh produced, NA kWh per capita
Industries:
    newly created lobster and shrimp industry
Agriculture:
    most important sector; provides all export earnings; crops - vanilla,
    ylang-ylang, coffee, copra; imports major share of food needs
Economic aid:
    Western (non-US) countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89),
    $402 million
Currency:
    French franc (plural - francs); 1 French franc (F) = 100 centimes
Exchange rates:
    French francs (F) per US$1 - 5.3801 (January 1992), 5.6421 (1991), 5.4453
    (1990), 6.3801 (1989), 5.9569 (1988), 6.0107 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Mayotte Communications

Highways:
    42 km total; 18 km bituminous
Ports:
    Dzaoudzi
Civil air:
    no major transport aircraft
Airports:
    1 with permanent-surface runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    small system administered by French Department of Posts and
    Telecommunications; includes radio relay and high-frequency radio
    communications for links to Comoros and international communications; 450
    telephones; broadcast stations - 1 AM, no FM, no TV

:Mayotte Defense Forces

Note:
    defense is the responsibility of France

:Mexico Geography

Total area:
    1,972,550 km2
Land area:
    1,923,040 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly less than three times the size of Texas
Land boundaries:
    4,538 km; Belize 250 km, Guatemala 962 km, US 3,326 km
Coastline:
    9,330 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    24 nm
  Continental shelf:
    natural prolongation of continental margin or 200 nm
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    claims Clipperton Island (French possession)
Climate:
    varies from tropical to desert
Terrain:
    high, rugged mountains, low coastal plains, high plateaus, and desert
Natural resources:
    crude oil, silver, copper, gold, lead, zinc, natural gas, timber
Land use:
    arable land 12%; permanent crops 1%; meadows and pastures 39%; forest and
    woodland 24%; other 24%; includes irrigated 3%
Environment:
    subject to tsunamis along the Pacific coast and destructive earthquakes in
    the center and south; natural water resources scarce and polluted in north,
    inaccessible and poor quality in center and extreme southeast;
    deforestation; erosion widespread; desertification; serious air pollution in
    Mexico City and urban centers along US-Mexico border
Note:
    strategic location on southern border of US

:Mexico People

Population:
    92,380,721 (July 1992), growth rate 2.3% (1992)
Birth rate:
    29 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    5 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    -1 migrant/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    30 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    69 years male, 76 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    3.3 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Mexican(s); adjective - Mexican
Ethnic divisions:
    mestizo (Indian-Spanish) 60%, Amerindian or predominantly Amerindian 30%,
    Caucasian or predominantly Caucasian 9%, other 1%
Religions:
    nominally Roman Catholic 89%, Protestant 6%
Languages:
    Spanish; various Mayan dialects
Literacy:
    87% (male 90%, female 85%) age 15 and over can read and write (1985 est.)
Labor force:
    26,100,000 (1988); services 31.4%, agriculture, forestry, hunting, and
    fishing 26%, commerce 13.9%, manufacturing 12.8%, construction 9.5%,
    transportation 4.8%, mining and quarrying 1.3%, electricity 0.3% (1986)
Organized labor:
    35% of labor force

:Mexico Government

Long-form name:
    United Mexican States
Type:
    federal republic operating under a centralized government
Capital:
    Mexico
Administrative divisions:
    31 states (estados, singular - estado) and 1 federal district* (distrito
    federal); Aguascalientes, Baja California, Baja California Sur, Campeche,
    Chiapas, Chihuahua, Coahuila, Colima, Distrito Federal*, Durango,
    Guanajuato, Guerrero, Hidalgo, Jalisco, Mexico, Michoacan, Morelos, Nayarit,
    Nuevo Leon, Oaxaca, Puebla, Queretaro, Quintana Roo, San Luis Potosi,
    Sinaloa, Sonora, Tabasco, Tamaulipas, Tlaxcala, Veracruz, Yucatan, Zacatecas
Independence:
    16 September 1810 (from Spain)
Constitution:
    5 February 1917
Legal system:
    mixture of US constitutional theory and civil law system; judicial review of
    legislative acts; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with reservations
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 16 September (1810)
Executive branch:
    president, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    bicameral National Congress (Congreso de la Union) consists of an upper
    chamber or Senate (Camara de Senadores) and a lower chamber or Chamber of
    Deputies (Camara de Diputados)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court of Justice (Corte Suprema de Justicia)
Leaders:
  Chief of State and Head of Government:
    President Carlos SALINAS de Gortari (since 1 December 1988)
Political parties and leaders:
    (recognized parties) Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI), Genaro BORREGO
    Estrada; National Action Party (PAN), Luis ALVAREZ; Popular Socialist Party
    (PPS), Indalecio SAYAGO Herrera; Democratic Revolutionary Party (PRD),
    Cuauhtemoc CARDENAS Solorzano; Cardenist Front for the National
    Reconstruction Party (PFCRN), Rafael AGUILAR Talamantes; Authentic Party of
    the Mexican Revolution (PARM), Carlos Enrique CANTU Rosas
Suffrage:
    universal and compulsory (but not enforced) at age 18
Elections:
  President:
    last held on 6 July 1988 (next to be held September 1994); results - Carlos
    SALINAS de Gortari (PRI) 50.74%, Cuauhtemoc CARDENAS Solorzano (FDN) 31.06%,
    Manuel CLOUTHIER (PAN) 16.81%; other 1.39%; note - several of the smaller
    parties ran a common candidate under a coalition called the National
    Democratic Front (FDN)
  Senate:
    last held on 18 August 1988 (next to be held midyear 1994); results -
    percent of vote by party NA; seats in full Senate - (64 total) number of
    seats by party; PRI 61, PRD 2, PAN 1
  Chamber of Deputies:
    last held on 18 August 1991 (next to be held midyear 1994); results - PRI
    53%, PAN 20%, PFCRN 10%, PPS 6%, PARM 7%, PMS (now part of PRD) 4%; seats -
    (500 total) PRI 320, PAN 89, PRD 41, PFCRN 23, PARM 15, PPS 12

:Mexico Government

Other political or pressure groups:
    Roman Catholic Church, Confederation of Mexican Workers (CTM), Confederation
    of Industrial Chambers (CONCAMIN), Confederation of National Chambers of
    Commerce (CONCANACO), National Peasant Confederation (CNC), UNE (no
    expansion), Revolutionary Workers Party (PRT), Mexican Democratic Party
    (PDM), Revolutionary Confederation of Workers and Peasants (CROC), Regional
    Confederation of Mexican Workers (CROM), Confederation of Employers of the
    Mexican Republic (COPARMEX), National Chamber of Transformation Industries
    (CANACINTRA), Coordinator for Foreign Trade Business Organizations (COECE)
Member of:
    AG (observer), CARICOM (observer) CCC, CDB, CG, EBRD, ECLAC, FAO, G-3, G-6,
    G-11, G-15, G-19, G-24, G-77, GATT, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, IDA,
    IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, IOM (observer), ISO, ITU,
    LAES, LAIA, LORCS, NAM (observer), OAS, OPANAL, PCA, RG, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
    UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Gustavo PETRICIOLI Iturbide; Chancery at 1911 Pennsylvania Avenue
    NW, Washington, DC 20006; telephone (202) 728-1600; there are Mexican
    Consulates General in Chicago, Dallas, Denver, El Paso, Houston, Los
    Angeles, New Orleans, New York, San Francisco, San Antonio, San Diego, and
    Consulates in Albuquerque, Atlanta, Austin, Boston, Brownsville (Texas),
    Calexico (California), Corpus Christi, Del Rio (Texas), Detroit, Douglas
    (Arizona), Eagle Pass (Texas), Fresno (California), Kansas City (Missouri),
    Laredo, McAllen (Texas), Miami, Nogales (Arizona), Oxnard (California),
    Philadelphia, Phoenix, Presidio (Texas), Sacramento, St. Louis, St. Paul
    (Minneapolis), Salt Lake City, San Bernardino, San Jose, San Juan (Puerto
    Rico), and Seattle
  US:
    Ambassador John D. NEGROPONTE, Jr.; Embassy at Paseo de la Reforma 305,
    06500 Mexico, D.F. (mailing address is P. O. Box 3087, Laredo, TX
    78044-3087); telephone [52] (5) 211-0042; FAX [52] (5) 511-9980, 208-3373;
    there are US Consulates General in Ciudad Juarez, Guadalajara, Monterrey,
    and Tijuana, and Consulates in Hermosillo, Matamoros, Mazatlan, Merida, and
    Nuevo Laredo
Flag:
    three equal vertical bands of green (hoist side), white, and red; the coat
    of arms (an eagle perched on a cactus with a snake in its beak) is centered
    in the white band

:Mexico Economy

Overview:
    Mexico's economy is a mixture of state-owned industrial plants (notably
    oil), private manufacturing and services, and both large-scale and
    traditional agriculture. In the 1980s, Mexico experienced severe economic
    difficulties: the nation accumulated large external debts as world petroleum
    prices fell; rapid population growth outstripped the domestic food supply;
    and inflation, unemployment, and pressures to emigrate became more acute.
    Growth in national output, however, is recovering, rising from 1.4% in 1988
    to 4% in 1990 and again in 1991. The US is Mexico's major trading partner,
    accounting for two-thirds of its exports and imports. After petroleum,
    border assembly plants and tourism are the largest earners of foreign
    exchange. The government, in consultation with international economic
    agencies, is implementing programs to stabilize the economy and foster
    growth. In 1991 the government began negotiations with the US and Canada on
    a free trade agreement.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $289 billion, per capita $3,200; real growth rate
    4% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    18.8% (1991 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    14-17% (1991 est.)
Budget:
    revenues $41.0 billion; expenditures $47.9 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $6.3 billion (1990)
Exports:
    $27.4 billion (f.o.b., 1991 est.)
  commodities:
    crude oil, oil products, coffee, shrimp, engines, motor vehicles, cotton,
    consumer electronics
  partners:
    US 68%, EC 14%, Japan 6% (1990 est.)
Imports:
    $36.7 billion (c.i.f., 1991)
  commodities:
    grain, metal manufactures, agricultural machinery, electrical equipment
  partners:
    US 69%, EC 13%, Japan 6% (1990)
External debt:
    $98.4 billion (1991)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 5.5% (1991 est.); accounts for 28% of GDP
Electricity:
    26,150,000 kW capacity; 114,277 million kWh produced, 1,270 kWh per capita
    (1991)
Industries:
    food and beverages, tobacco, chemicals, iron and steel, petroleum, mining,
    textiles, clothing, transportation equipment, tourism
Agriculture:
    accounts for 9% of GDP and over 25% of work force; large number of small
    farms at subsistence level; major food crops - corn, wheat, rice, beans;
    cash crops - cotton, coffee, fruit, tomatoes; fish catch of 1.4 million
    metric tons among top 20 nations (1987)
Illicit drugs:
    illicit cultivation of opium poppy and cannabis continues in spite of active
    government eradication program; major supplier to the US market; continues
    as the primary transshipment country for US-bound cocaine from South America

:Mexico Economy

Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $3.1 billion; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $7.7 billion;
    Communist countries (1970-89), $110 million
Currency:
    Mexican peso (plural - pesos); 1 Mexican peso (Mex$) = 100 centavos
Exchange rates:
    market rate of Mexican pesos (Mex$) per US$1 - 3,068.5 (January 1992),
    3,018.4 (1991) 2,940.9 (January 1991), 2,812.6 (1990), 2,461.3 (1989),
    2,273.1 (1988), 1,378.2 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Mexico Communications

Railroads:
    24,500 km total; breakdown NA
Highways:
    212,000 km total; 65,000 km paved, 30,000 km semipaved or cobblestone,
    62,000 km rural roads (improved earth) or roads under construction, 55,000
    km unimproved earth roads
Inland waterways:
    2,900 km navigable rivers and coastal canals
Pipelines:
    crude oil 28,200 km; petroleum products 10,150 km; natural gas 13,254 km;
    petrochemical 1,400 km
Ports:
    Acapulco, Coatzacoalcos, Ensenada, Guaymas, Manzanillo, Mazatlan, Progreso,
    Puerto Vallarta, Salina Cruz, Tampico, Veracruz
Merchant marine:
    58 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 875,239 GRT/1,301,355 DWT; includes 4
    short-sea passenger, 3 cargo, 2 refrigerated cargo, 2 roll-on/roll-off, 30
    petroleum tanker, 4 chemical tanker, 7 liquefied gas, 1 bulk, 1 combination
    bulk, 4 container
Civil air:
    186 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    1,815 total, 1,505 usable; 200 with permanent-surface runways; 3 with
    runways over 3,659 m; 33 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 284 with runways
    1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    highly developed system with extensive radio relay links; privatized in
    December 1990; connected into Central America Microwave System; 6,410,000
    telephones; broadcast stations - 679 AM, no FM, 238 TV, 22 shortwave; 120
    domestic satellite terminals; earth stations - 4 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT and
    1 Pacific Ocean INTELSAT

:Mexico Defense Forces

Branches:
    National Defense (including Army and Air Force), Navy (including Marines)
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 23,023,871; 16,852,513 fit for military service; 1,138,455
    reach military age (18) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $1.6 billion, less than 1% of GDP (1982 budget)

:Micronesia, Federated States of Geography

Total area:
    702 km2
Land area:
    702 km2; includes Pohnpei, Truk, Yap, and Kosrae
Comparative area:
    slightly less than four times the size of Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    6,112 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    tropical; heavy year-round rainfall, especially in the eastern islands;
    located on southern edge of the typhoon belt with occasional severe damage
Terrain:
    islands vary geologically from high mountainous islands to low, coral
    atolls; volcanic outcroppings on Pohnpei, Kosrae, and Truk
Natural resources:
    forests, marine products, deep-seabed minerals
Land use:
    arable land NA%; permanent crops NA%; meadows and pastures NA%; forest and
    woodland NA%; other NA%
Environment:
    subject to typhoons from June to December; four major island groups totaling
    607 islands
Note:
    located 5,150 km west-southwest of Honolulu in the North Pacific Ocean,
    about three-quarters of the way between Hawaii and Indonesia

:Micronesia, Federated States of People

Population:
    114,694 (July 1992), growth rate 3.4% (1992)
Birth rate:
    29 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    7 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    12 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    39 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    65 years male, 69 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    4.1 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Micronesian(s); adjective - Micronesian; Kosrae(s), Pohnpeian(s),
    Trukese (singular and plural), Yapese (singular and plural)
Ethnic divisions:
    nine ethnic Micronesian and Polynesian groups
Religions:
    predominantly Christian, divided between Roman Catholic and Protestant;
    other churches include Assembly of God, Jehovah's Witnesses, Seventh-Day
    Adventist, Latter-Day Saints, and the Baha'i Faith
Languages:
    English is the official and common language; most indigenous languages fall
    within the Austronesian language family, the exceptions are the Polynesian
    languages; major indigenous languages are Trukese, Pohnpeian, Yapese, and
    Kosrean
Literacy:
    90% (male 90%, female 85%) age 15 and over can read and write (1980)
Labor force:
    NA; two-thirds are government employees; 45,000 people are between the ages
    of 15 and 65
Organized labor:
    NA

:Micronesia, Federated States of Government

Long-form name:
    Federated States of Micronesia (no short-form name)
Type:
    constitutional government in free association with the US; the Compact of
    Free Association entered into force 3 November 1986
Capital:
    Kolonia (on the island of Pohnpei); note - a new capital is being built
    about 10 km southwest in the Palikir valley
Administrative divisions:
    4 states; Kosrae, Pohnpei, Chuuk, Yap
Independence:
    3 November 1986 (from the US-administered UN Trusteeship; formerly the
    Kosrae, Pohnpei, Truk, and Yap districts of the Trust Territory of the
    Pacific Islands)
Constitution:
    10 May 1979
Legal system:
    based on adapted Trust Territory laws, acts of the legislature, municipal,
    common, and customary laws
National holiday:
    Proclamation of the Federated States of Micronesia, 10 May (1979)
Executive branch:
    president, vice president, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Congress
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State and Head of Government:
    President Bailey OLTER (since 21 May 1991); Vice President Jacob NENA (since
    21 May 1991)
Political parties and leaders:
    no formal parties
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  President:
    last held ll May 1991 (next to be held March 1995); results - President
    Bailey OLTER elected president; Vice-President Jacob NENA
  Congress:
    last held on 5 March 1991 (next to be held March 1993); results - percent of
    vote NA; seats - (14 total)
Member of:
    ESCAP (associate), ICAO, SPC, SPF, UN, UNCTAD
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Jesse B. MAREHALAU; Embassy at 1725 N St., NW, Washington, DC
    20036; telephone (202) 223-4383
  US:
    Ambassador Aurelia BRAZEAL; Embassy at address NA, Kolonia (mailing address
    is P. O. Box 1286, Pohnpei, Federated States of Micronesia 96941); telephone
    691-320-2187; FAX 691-320-2186
Flag:
    light blue with four white five-pointed stars centered; the stars are
    arranged in a diamond pattern

:Micronesia, Federated States of Economy

Overview:
    Economic activity consists primarily of subsistence farming and fishing. The
    islands have few mineral deposits worth exploiting, except for high-grade
    phosphate. The potential for a tourist industry exists, but the remoteness
    of the location and a lack of adequate facilities hinder development.
    Financial assistance from the US is the primary source of revenue, with the
    US pledged to spend $1 billion in the islands in the l990s. Geographical
    isolation and a poorly developed infrastructure are major impediments to
    long-term growth.
GNP:
    purchasing power equivalent - $150 million, per capita $1,500; real growth
    rate NA% (1989 est.); note - GNP numbers reflect US spending
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    NA%
Unemployment rate:
    NA
Budget:
    revenues $165 million; expenditures $115 million, including capital
    expenditures of $20 million (1988)
Exports:
    $2.3 million (f.o.b., 1988)
  commodities:
    copra
  partners:
    NA
Imports:
    $67.7 million (c.i.f., 1988)
  commodities:
    NA
  partners:
    NA
External debt:
    $NA
Industrial production:
    growth rate NA%
Electricity:
    18,000 kW capacity; 40 million kWh produced, 380 kWh per capita (1990)
Industries:
    tourism, construction, fish processing, craft items from shell, wood, and
    pearls
Agriculture:
    mainly a subsistence economy; copra, black pepper; tropical fruits and
    vegetables, coconuts, cassava, sweet potatoes, pigs, chickens
Economic aid:
    under terms of the Compact of Free Association, the US will provide $1.3
    billion in grant aid during the period 1986-2001
Currency:
    US currency is used
Exchange rates:
    US currency is used
Fiscal year:
    1 October - 30 September

:Micronesia, Federated States of Communications

Highways:
    39 km of paved roads on major islands; also 187 km stone-, coral-, or
    laterite-surfaced roads
Ports:
    Colonia (Yap), Truk (Kosrae), Okat (Kosrae)
Airports:
    6 total, 5 usable; 4 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways over
    2,439 m; 4 with runways 1,220-2,439
Telecommunications:
    telephone network - 960 telephone lines total at Kolonia and Truk; islands
    interconnected by shortwave radio (used mostly for government purposes);
    16,000 radio receivers, 1,125 TV sets (est. 1987); broadcast stations - 5
    AM, 1 FM, 6 TV, 1 shortwave; 4 Pacific Ocean INTELSAT earth stations

:Micronesia, Federated States of Defense Forces

Note:
    defense is the responsibility of the US

:Midway Islands Geography

Total area:
    5.2 km2
Land area:
    5.2 km2; includes Eastern Island and Sand Island
Comparative area:
    about nine times the size of the Mall in Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    15 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    12 nm
  Continental shelf:
    200 m (depth)
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    tropical, but moderated by prevailing easterly winds
Terrain:
    low, nearly level
Natural resources:
    fish and wildlife
Land use:
    arable land 0%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 0%; forest and
    woodland 0%; other 100%
Environment:
    coral atoll
Note:
    located 2,350 km west-northwest of Honolulu at the western end of Hawaiian
    Islands group, about one-third of the way between Honolulu and Tokyo; closed
    to the public

:Midway Islands People

Population:
    453 US military personnel (1992)

:Midway Islands Government

Long-form name:
    none
Type:
    unincorporated territory of the US administered by the US Navy, under
    command of the Barbers Point Naval Air Station in Hawaii and managed
    cooperatively by the US Navy and the Fish and Wildlife Service of the US
    Department of the Interior as part of the National Wildlife Refuge System;
    legislation before Congress in 1990 proposed inclusion of territory within
    the State of Hawaii
Capital:
    none; administered from Washington, DC
Diplomatic representation:
    none (territory of the US)
Flag:
    the US flag is used

:Midway Islands Economy

Overview:
    The economy is based on providing support services for US naval operations
    located on the islands. All food and manufactured goods must be imported.
Electricity:
    supplied by US Military

:Midway Islands Communications

Highways:
    32 km total
Pipelines:
    7.8 km
Ports:
    Sand Island
Airports:
    3 total; 2 usable; 1 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways over
    2,439 m; 2 with runways 1,220-2,439 m

:Midway Islands Defense Forces

Note:
    defense is the responsibility of the US

:Moldova Geography

Total area:
    33,700 km2
Land area:
    33,700 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly more than twice the size of Hawaii
Land boundaries:
    1,389 km; Romania 450 km, Ukraine 939 km
Coastline:
    none - landlocked
Maritime claims:
    none - landlocked
Disputes:
    potential dispute with Ukraine over former southern Bessarabian areas;
    northern Bukovina ceded to Ukraine upon Moldova's incorporation into USSR;
    internal with ethnic Russians in the Trans-Dnestr and Gagauz Muslims in the
    South
Climate:
    mild winters, warm summers
Terrain:
    rolling steppe, gradual slope south to Black Sea
Natural resources:
    lignite, phosphorites, gypsum
Land use:
    NA% arable land; NA% permanent crops; NA% meadows and pastures; NA% forest
    and woodland; NA% other; includes NA% irrigated
Environment:
    NA

:Moldova People

Population:
    4,458,435 (July 1992), growth rate 0.7% (1992)
Birth rate:
    19 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    10 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    -2 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    35 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    64 years male, 71 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    2.6 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Moldovan(s); adjective - Moldovan
Ethnic divisions:
    Moldavian (Moldovan) 64.5%, Ukrainian 13.8%, Russian 13.0%, Gagauz 3.5%,
    Jews 1.5%, Bulgarian 2.0%, other 1.0% (1989 figures)
Religions:
    Eastern Orthodox 98.5%, Jewish 1.5%, Baptist only about 1,000 members, other
    1.0%; note - almost all churchgoers are ethnic Moldovan; the Slavic
    population are not churchgoers (1991 figures)
Languages:
    Romanian; (Moldovan official), Russian
Literacy:
    NA% (male NA%, female NA%) age 15 and over can read and write
Labor force:
    2,095,000; agriculture 34.4%, industry 20.1%, other 45.5% (1985 figures)
Organized labor:
    NA

:Moldova Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Moldova
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Chisinau (Kishinev)
Administrative divisions:
    previously divided into 40 rayons; now to be divided into 7-9 larger
    districts at some future point
Independence:
    27 August 1991 (from Soviet Union; formerly Soviet Socialist Republic of
    Moldova)
Constitution:
    formulating a new constitution; old constitution is still in effect but has
    been heavily amended during the past few years
Legal system:
    based on civil law system; no judicial review of legislative acts; does not
    accept compulsory ICJ jurisdiction but accepts many UN and CSCE documents
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 27 August 1991
Executive branch:
    president, prime minister, Cabinet of Ministers
Legislative branch:
    Moldovan Supreme Soviet
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court (highest civil court in Moldova)
Leaders:
  Chief of State and Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Valeriy MURAVSKY (since 28 May 1991), 1st Deputy Prime
    Minister Constantin OBOROC (since June 1990); 1st Deputy Prime Minister
    Constantin TAMPIZA (since June 1990); 1st Deputy Prime Minister Andrei
    SANGHELI (since June 1990)
  Chief of State:
    President Mircea SNEGUR (since 3 September 1990)
  Head of Legislature:
    Chairman of the Supreme Soviet (Premier) Valeriy MURAVSKIY (since May 1991);
    1st Deputy Prime Minister Ian HADIRCA (since 11 May 1990); Deputy Prime
    Minister Victor PUSCASU, 21 November 1989; Deputy Prime Minister Mihial
    PLASICHUK, NA
Political parties and leaders:
    Moldovan Popular Front, Yuriy ROSHKA, chairman (since summer 1990);
    Unitatea-Yedinstvo Intermovement, V. YAKOVLEV, chairman; Bulgarian Rebirth
    Society, Ivan ZABUNOV, chairman; Democratic Group, five cochairmen
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  President:
    last held 8 December 1991; results - Mircea SNEGUR won 98.17% of vote
  Moldovan Supreme Soviet:
    last held 25 February 1990; results - Moldovan Popular Front 33%,
    Intermovement 34%, Communist Party 32%; seats - (366 total) Popular Front
    Club 35; Sovereignty Club 35; Club of Independent Deputies 25; Agrarian Club
    110; Club Bujak 15; Reality Club 25; Soviet Moldova 80; remaining 41 seats
    probably belong to Onestr region deputies who usually boycott Moldovan
    legislative proceedings

:Moldova Government

Other political or pressure groups:
    United Council of Labor Collectives (UCLC), Igor SMIRNOV, chairman; Social
    Democratic Party of Moldova (SDPM), V. CHIOBATARU, leader; The Ecology
    Movement of Moldova (EMM), G. MALARCHUK, chairman; The Christian Democratic
    League of Women of Moldova (CDLWM), L. LARI, chairman; National Christian
    Party of Moldova (NCPM), D. TODIKE, M. BARAGA, V. NIKU, leaders; The Peoples
    Movement Gagauz Khalky (GKh), S. GULGAR, leader; The Democratic Party of
    Gagauzia (DPG), G. SAVOSTIN, chairman; The Alliance of Working People of
    Moldova (AWPM), G. POLOGOV, president
Member of:
    CSCE, UN
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador vacant
  US:
    Charge Howard Steers; Interim Chancery at #103 Strada Alexei Mateevich,
    Kishinev (mailing address is APO AE 09862); telephone 8-011-7-0422-23-28-94
    at Hotel Seabeco in Kishinev
Flag:
    same color scheme as Romania - 3 equal vertical bands of blue (hoist side),
    yellow, and red; emblem in center of flag is of a Roman eagle carrying a
    cross in its beak and an olive branch in its claws

:Moldova Economy

Overview:
    Moldova, the next-to-smallest of the former Soviet republics in area, is the
    most densely inhabited. Moldova has a little more than 1% of the population,
    labor force, capital stock, and output of the former Soviet Union. Living
    standards have been below average for the European USSR. The country enjoys
    a favorable climate, and economic development has been primarily based on
    agriculture, featuring fruits, vegetables, wine, and tobacco. Industry
    accounts for 20% of the labor force, whereas agriculture employs more than
    one-third. Moldova has no major mineral resources and has depended on the
    former Soviet republics for coal, oil, gas, steel, most electronic
    equipment, machine tools, and major consumer durables such as automobiles.
    Its industrial and agricultural products, in turn, have been exported to the
    other former Soviet republics. Moldova has freed prices on most goods and
    has legalized private ownership of property, including agricultural land.
    Moldova's economic prospects are dimmed by the difficulties of moving toward
    a market economy and the political problems of redefining ties to the other
    former Soviet republics and Romania.
GDP:
    NA; per capita NA; real growth rate -12% (1991)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    97% (1991)
Unemployment rate:
    NA%
Budget:
    revenues $NA million; expenditures $NA million, including capital
    expenditures of $NA million (1992)
Exports:
    $400 million rubles (f.o.b., 1990)
  commodities:
    foodstuffs, wine, tobacco, textiles and footwear, machinery, chemicals
    (1991)
  partners:
    NA
Imports:
    $1.9 billion rubles (c.i.f., 1990)
  commodities:
    oil, gas, coal, steel machinery, foodstuffs, automobiles, and other consumer
    durables
  partners:
    NA
External debt:
    $650 million (1991 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate -7% (1991)
Electricity:
    3,000,000 kW capacity; 13,000 million kWh produced, 2,806 kWh per capita
    (1991)
Industries:
    key products (with share of total former Soviet output in parentheses where
    known): agricultural machinery, foundry equipment, refrigerators and
    freezers (2.7%), washing machines (5.0%), hosiery (2.0%), refined sugar
    (3.1%), vegetable oil (3.7%), canned food (8.6%), shoes, textiles
Agriculture:
    Moldova's principal economic activity; products (shown in share of total
    output of the former Soviet republics): Grain (1.6%), sugar beets (2.6%),
    sunflower seed (4.4%), vegetables (4.4%), fruits and berries (9.7%), grapes
    (20.1%), meat (1.7%), milk (1.4%), and eggs (1.4%)
Illicit drugs:
    transshipment point for illicit drugs to Western Europe

:Moldova Economy

Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (1991), $NA, Western (non-US) countries, ODA
    and OOF bilateral commitments (1991), $NA million
Currency:
    as of May 1992, retaining ruble as currency
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Moldova Communications

Railroads:
    1,150 km (includes NA km electrified) (1990); does not include industrial
    lines
Highways:
    20,000 km total (1990); 13,900 km hard-surfaced, 6,100 km earth
Inland waterways:
    NA km perennially navigable
Pipelines:
    NA
Ports:
    none - landlocked
Merchant marine:
    NA
Civil air:
    NA major transport aircraft
Airports:
    NA
Telecommunications:
    poorly supplied with telephones; 215,000 unsatisfied applications for
    telephone installations (31 January 1990); connected to Ukraine by landline
    and countries beyond the former USSR through the switching center in Moscow

:Moldova Defense Forces

Branches:
    Republic Security Forces (internal and border troops); Russian Forces
    (Ground, Navy, Air, and Air Defense)
Manpower availability:
    NA
Defense expenditures:
    $NA, NA% of GDP

:Monaco Geography

Total area:
    1.9 km2
Land area:
    1.9 km2
Comparative area:
    about three times the size of the Mall in Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    4.4 km; France 4.4 km
Coastline:
    4.1 km
Maritime claims:
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    Mediterranean with mild, wet winters and hot, dry summers
Terrain:
    hilly, rugged, rocky
Natural resources:
    none
Land use:
    arable land 0%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 0%; forest and
    woodland 0%; other 100%
Environment:
    almost entirely urban
Note:
    second-smallest independent state in world (after Vatican City)

:Monaco People

Population:
    29,965 (July 1992), growth rate 0.9% (1992)
Birth rate:
    7 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    7 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    9 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    8 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    72 years male, 80 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    1.1 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Monacan(s) or Monegasque(s); adjective - Monacan or Monegasque
Ethnic divisions:
    French 47%, Monegasque 16%, Italian 16%, other 21%
Religions:
    Roman Catholic 95%
Languages:
    French (official), English, Italian, Monegasque
Literacy:
    NA% (male NA%, female NA%)
Labor force:
    NA
Organized labor:
    4,000 members in 35 unions

:Monaco Government

Long-form name:
    Principality of Monaco
Type:
    constitutional monarchy
Capital:
    Monaco
Administrative divisions:
    4 quarters (quartiers, singular - quartier); Fontvieille, La Condamine,
    Monaco-Ville, Monte-Carlo
Independence:
    1419, rule by the House of Grimaldi
Constitution:
    17 December 1962
Legal system:
    based on French law; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
National holiday:
    National Day, 19 November
Executive branch:
    prince, minister of state, Council of Government (cabinet)
Legislative branch:
    National Council (Conseil National)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Tribunal (Tribunal Supreme)
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Prince RAINIER III (since November 1949); Heir Apparent Prince ALBERT
    Alexandre Louis Pierre (born 14 March 1958)
  Head of Government:
    Minister of State Jean AUSSEIL (since 16 September 1985)
Political parties and leaders:
    National and Democratic Union (UND), Democratic Union Movement (MUD), Monaco
    Action, Monegasque Socialist Party (PSM)
Suffrage:
    universal adult at age 25
Elections:
  National Council:
    last held on 24 January 1988 (next to be held 24 January 1993); results -
    percent of vote by party NA; seats - (18 total) UND 18
Member of:
    ACCT, CSCE, IAEA, ICAO, IMF (observer), IMO, INMARSAT, INTELSAT, INTERPOL,
    IOC, ITU, LORCS, UN (observer), UNCTAD, UNESCO, UPU, WHO, WIPO
Diplomatic representation:
    Monaco maintains honorary consulates general in Boston, Chicago, Los
    Angeles, New Orleans, New York, and San Francisco, and honorary consulates
    in Dallas, Honolulu, Palm Beach, Philadelphia, and Washington
  US:
    no mission in Monaco, but the US Consul General in Marseille, France, is
    accredited to Monaco; Consul General R. Susan WOOD; Consulate General at 12
    Boulevard Paul Peytral, 13286 Marseille Cedex (mailing address APO AE
    09777); telephone [33] (91) 549-200
Flag:
    two equal horizontal bands of red (top) and white; similar to the flag of
    Indonesia which is longer and the flag of Poland which is white (top) and
    red

:Monaco Economy

Overview:
    Monaco, situated on the French Mediterranean coast, is a popular resort,
    attracting tourists to its casino and pleasant climate. The Principality has
    successfully sought to diversify into services and small, high-value-added,
    nonpolluting industries. The state has no income tax and low business taxes
    and thrives as a tax haven both for individuals who have established
    residence and for foreign companies that have set up businesses and offices.
    About 50% of Monaco's annual revenue comes from value-added taxes on hotels,
    banks, and the industrial sector; about 25% of revenue comes from tourism.
    Living standards are high, that is, roughly comparable to those in
    prosperous French metropolitan suburbs.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $475 million, per capita $16,000; real growth
    rate NA% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    NA%
Unemployment rate:
    full employment (1989)
Budget:
    revenues $424 million; expenditures $376 million, including capital
    expenditures of $NA (1991)
Exports:
    $NA; full customs integration with France, which collects and rebates
    Monacan trade duties; also participates in EC market system through customs
    union with France
Imports:
    $NA; full customs integration with France, which collects and rebates
    Monacan trade duties; also participates in EC market system through customs
    union with France
External debt:
    $NA
Industrial production:
    growth rate NA%
Electricity:
    10,000 kW standby capacity (1991); power supplied by France Indus
Agriculture:
    NA
Economic aid:
    NA
Currency:
    French franc (plural - francs); 1 French franc (F) = 100 centimes
Exchange rates:
    French francs (F) per US$1 - 5.3801 (January 1992), 5.6421 (1991), 5.4453
    (1990), 6.3801 (1989), 5.9569 (1988), 6.0107 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Monaco Communications

Railroads:
    1.6 km 1.435-meter gauge
Highways:
    none; city streets
Ports:
    Monaco
Merchant marine:
    1 petroleum tanker (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 3,268 GRT/4,959 DWT
Civil air:
    no major transport aircraft
Airports:
    1 usable airfield with permanent-surface runways
Telecommunications:
    served by cable into the French communications system; automatic telephone
    system; 38,200 telephones; broadcast stations - 3 AM, 4 FM, 5 TV; no
    communication satellite earth stations

:Monaco Defense Forces

Note:
    defense is the responsibility of France

:Mongolia Geography

Total area:
    1,565,000 km2
Land area:
    1,565,000 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than Alaska
Land boundaries:
    8,114 km; China 4,673 km, Russia 3,441 km
Coastline:
    none - landlocked
Maritime claims:
    none - landlocked
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    desert; continental (large daily and seasonal temperature ranges)
Terrain:
    vast semidesert and desert plains; mountains in west and southwest; Gobi
    Desert in southeast
Natural resources:
    oil, coal, copper, molybdenum, tungsten, phosphates, tin, nickel, zinc,
    wolfram, fluorspar, gold
Land use:
    arable land 1%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 79%; forest and
    woodland 10%; other 10%; includes irrigated NEGL%
Environment:
    harsh and rugged
Note:
    landlocked; strategic location between China and Russia

:Mongolia People

Population:
    2,305,516 (July 1992), growth rate 2.6% (1992)
Birth rate:
    34 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    7 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    47 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    63 years male, 68 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    4.5 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Mongolian(s); adjective - Mongolian
Ethnic divisions:
    Mongol 90%, Kazakh 4%, Chinese 2%, Russian 2%, other 2%
Religions:
    predominantly Tibetan Buddhist, Muslim (about 4%); previously limited
    religious activity because of Communist regime
Languages:
    Khalkha Mongol used by over 90% of population; minor languages include
    Turkic, Russian, and Chinese
Literacy:
    90% (male NA%, female NA%) (1989 est.)
Labor force:
    NA, but primarily herding/agricultural; over half the adult population is in
    the labor force, including a large percentage of women; shortage of skilled
    labor
Organized labor:
    425,000 members of the Central Council of Mongolian Trade Unions (CCMTU)
    controlled by the government (1984); independent labor organizations now
    being formed

:Mongolia Government

Long-form name:
    Mongolia
Type:
    in transition from Communist state to republic
Capital:
    Ulaanbaatar
Administrative divisions:
    18 provinces (aymguud, singular - aymag) and 3 municipalities* (hotuud,
    singular - hot); Arhangay, Bayanhongor, Bayan-Olgiy, Bulgan, Darhan*,
    Dornod, Dornogovi, Dundgovi, Dzavhan, Erdenet*, Govi-Altay, Hentiy, Hovd,
    Hovsgol, Omnogovi, Ovorhangay, Selenge, Suhbaatar, Tov, Ulaanbaatar*, Uvs
Independence:
    13 March 1921 (from China; formerly Outer Mongolia)
Constitution:
    12 February 1992
Legal system:
    blend of Russian, Chinese, and Turkish systems of law; no constitutional
    provision for judicial review of legislative acts; has not accepted
    compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
National holiday:
    Mongolian People's Revolution (NAADAM) 11-13 July; observed 13 July
Executive branch:
    premier, deputy premiers, Cabinet, president, vice president
Legislative branch:
    State Great Hural
Judicial branch:
    High Court; serves as appeals court for people's and provincial courts, but
    to date rarely overturns verdicts of lower courts
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Punsalmaagiyn OCHIRBAT (since 3 September 1990); Vice President
    Radnaasumbereliyn GONCHIGDORJ (since 7 September 1990)
  Head of Government:
    Premier Dashiyn BYAMBASUREN (since 11 September 1990)
Political parties and leaders:
  ruling party:
    Mongolian People's Revolutionary Party (MPRP), Budragchagiin DASH-YONDON,
    general secretary
  opposition:
    Social Democratic Party (SDP), BATBAYAR; Mongolian Democratic Association,
    Ts. ELBEGDORJ, chief coordinator; Mongolian Party of National Progress,
    GANBOLD
  other:
    Mongolian Democratic Party (MDP), BATUUL; Free Labor Party, C. DUL; note -
    opposition parties were legalized in May 1990; additional parties exist: The
    Green Party, The Buddhist Party, The Republican Party, Mongolian People's
    Party, and Mongolian Revival Party; these were formed but may not be
    officially registered because of low rates of membership
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  President:
    last held 3 September 1990 (next to be held NA July 1994); results -
    Punsalmaagiyn OCHIRBAT elected by the People's Great Hural
  State Great Hural:
    first time held June 1992; note - according to the new present Constitution,
    the two parliamentary bodies are to be combined into a single popularly
    elected house consisting of 76 members; results - NA

:Mongolia Government

  People's Small Hural:
    last held on 29 July 1990 (next to be held June 1992); results - MPRP 62.3%,
    MDP 24.5%, SDP 7. 5%, PNP 5.7%; seats - (50 total) MPRP 33, other 17; note -
    People's Small Hural will not exist after State Great Hural is assembled
Communists:
    MPRP membership 90,000 (1990 est.)
Member of:
    AsDB, ESCAP, FAO, GATT, G-77, IAEA, IBEC, IBRD, ICAO, ILO, IMF, IOC, ISO,
    ITU, LORCS, NAM, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Luvsandorj DAWAGIV; Chancery, (202) 983-1962
  US:
    Ambassador Joseph E. LAKE; Deputy Chief of Mission Thomas E. DOWLING;
    Embassy at Ulaanbaatar, c/o American Embassy Beijing; PSC 461, Box 300, FPO
    AP 06521-0002; telephone (800) 29095 and 29639
Flag:
    a new flag of unknown description reportedly has been adopted

:Mongolia Economy

Overview:
    Mongolia's severe climate, scattered population, and wide expanses of
    unproductive land have constrained economic development. Economic activity
    traditionally has been based on agriculture and the breeding of livestock -
    Mongolia has the highest number of livestock per person in the world. In
    recent years extensive mineral resources have been developed with Soviet
    support. The mining and processing of coal, copper, molybdenum, tin,
    tungsten, and gold account for a large part of industrial production. Timber
    and fishing are also important sectors. In 1991-92 Mongolian leadership is
    struggling with severe economic dislocations, mainly attributable to the
    economic crumbling of the USSR, by far Mongolia's leading trade and
    development partner. Moscow almost certainly cut aid in 1991, and the
    dissolution of the USSR at yearend 1991 makes prospects for aid quite bleak
    for 1992. Industry in 1991-92 has been hit hard by energy shortages, mainly
    due to disruptions in coal production and shortfalls in petroleum imports.
    The government is moving away from the Soviet-style centrally planned
    economy through privatization and price reform.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $2.1 billion, per capita $900; real growth rate
    -3% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    100% (1991 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    15% (1991 est.)
Budget:
    deficit of $67 million (1991)
Exports:
    $279 million (f.o.b., 1991)
  commodities:
    copper, livestock, animal products, cashmere, wool, hides, fluorspar, other
    nonferrous metals
  partners:
    USSR 75%, China 10%, Japan 4%
Imports:
    $360 million (f.o.b., 1991)
  commodities:
    machinery and equipment, fuels, food products, industrial consumer goods,
    chemicals, building materials, sugar, tea
  partners:
    USSR 75%, Austria 5%, China 5%
External debt:
    $16.8 billion (yearend 1990); 98.6% with USSR
Industrial production:
    growth rate -12% (1991 est.)
Electricity:
    1,238,000 kW capacity; 3,700 million kWh produced, 1,692 kWh per capita
    (1990)
Industries:
    copper, processing of animal products, building materials, food and
    beverage, mining (particularly coal)
Agriculture:
    accounts for about 20% of GDP and provides livelihood for about 50% of the
    population; livestock raising predominates (primarily sheep and goats, but
    also cattle, camels, and horses); crops - wheat, barley, potatoes, forage

:Mongolia Economy

Economic aid:
    about $300 million in trade credits and $34 million in grant aid from USSR
    and other CEMA countries, plus $7.4 million from UNDP (1990); in 1991, $170
    million in grants and technical assistance from Western donor countries,
    including $30 million from World Bank and $30 million from the IMF; over
    $200 million from donor countries projected in 1992
Currency:
    tughrik (plural - tughriks); 1 tughrik (Tug) = 100 mongos
Exchange rates:
    tughriks (Tug) per US$1 - 7.1 (1991), 5.63 (1990), 3.00 (1989)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Mongolia Communications

Railroads:
    1,750 km 1.524-meter broad gauge (1988)
Highways:
    46,700 km total; 1,000 km hard surface; 45,700 km other surfaces (1988)
Inland waterways:
    397 km of principal routes (1988)
Civil air:
    25 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    81 total, 31 usable; 11 with permanent-surface runways; fewer than 5 with
    runways over 3,659 m; fewer than 20 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 12 with
    runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    63,000 telephones (1989); broadcast stations - 12 AM, 1 FM, 1 TV (with 18
    provincial repeaters); repeat of Russian TV; 120,000 TVs; 220,000 radios; at
    least 1 earth station

:Mongolia Defense Forces

Branches:
    Mongolian People's Army (includes Border Guards), Air Force
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 551,548; 359,904 fit for military service; 25,275 reach
    military age (18) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $22.8 million of GDP (1992 budget)

:Montserrat Geography

Total area:
    100 km2
Land area:
    100 km2
Comparative area:
    about 0.6 times the size of Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    40 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive fishing zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    3 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    tropical; little daily or seasonal temperature variation
Terrain:
    volcanic islands, mostly mountainous, with small coastal lowland
Natural resources:
    negligible
Land use:
    arable land 20%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 10%; forest and
    woodland 40%; other 30%
Environment:
    subject to severe hurricanes from June to November
Note:
    located 400 km southeast of Puerto Rico in the Caribbean Sea

:Montserrat People

Population:
    12,617 (July 1992), growth rate 0.4 (1992)
Birth rate:
    17 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    10 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    -3 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    11 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    74 years male, 78 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    2.2 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Montserratian(s); adjective - Montserratian
Ethnic divisions:
    mostly black with a few Europeans
Religions:
    Anglican, Methodist, Roman Catholic, Pentecostal, Seventh-Day Adventist,
    other Christian denominations
Languages:
    English
Literacy:
    97% (male 97%, female 97%) age 15 and over having ever attended school
    (1970)
Labor force:
    5,100; community, social, and personal services 40.5%, construction 13.5%,
    trade, restaurants, and hotels 12.3%, manufacturing 10.5%, agriculture,
    forestry, and fishing 8.8%, other 14.4% (1983 est.)
Organized labor:
    30% of labor force, three trade unions with 1,500 members (1984 est.)

:Montserrat Government

Long-form name:
    none
Type:
    dependent territory of the UK
Capital:
    Plymouth
Administrative divisions:
    3 parishes; Saint Anthony, Saint Georges, Saint Peter
Independence:
    none (dependent territory of the UK)
Constitution:
    1 January 1960
Legal system:
    English common law and statute law
National holiday:
    Celebration of the Birthday of the Queen (second Saturday of June)
Executive branch:
    monarch, governor, Executive Council (cabinet), chief minister
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Legislative Council
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952), represented by Governor David
    TAYLOR (since NA 1990)
  Head of Government:
    Chief Minister Reuben T. MEADE (since October 1991)
Political parties and leaders:
    National Progressive Party (NPP) Reuben T. MEADE; People's Liberation
    Movement (PLM), Noel TUITT; National Development Party (NDP), Bertrand
    OSBORNE; Independent (IND), Ruby BRAMBLE
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  Legislative Council:
    last held on 8 October 1991; results - percent of vote by party NA; seats -
    (11 total, 7 elected) NPP 4, NDP 1, PLM 1, independent 1
Member of:
    CARICOM, CDB, ECLAC (associate), ICFTU, OECS, WCL
Diplomatic representation:
    none (dependent territory of the UK)
Flag:
    blue with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side quadrant and the
    Montserratian coat of arms centered in the outer half of the flag; the coat
    of arms features a woman standing beside a yellow harp with her arm around a
    black cross

:Montserrat Economy

Overview:
    The economy is small and open with economic activity centered on tourism and
    construction. Tourism is the most important sector and accounted for 20% of
    GDP in 1986. Agriculture accounted for about 4% of GDP and industry 10%. The
    economy is heavily dependent on imports, making it vulnerable to
    fluctuations in world prices. Exports consist mainly of electronic parts
    sold to the US.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $54.2 million, per capita $4,500 (1988); real
    growth rate 10% (1990 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    6.8% (1990)
Unemployment rate:
    3.0% (1987)
Budget:
    revenues $12.1 million; expenditures $14.3 million, including capital
    expenditures of $3.2 million (1988)
Exports:
    $2.3 million (f.o.b., 1988 est.)
  commodities:
    electronic parts, plastic bags, apparel, hot peppers, live plants, cattle
  partners:
    NA
Imports:
    $30 million (c.i.f., 1988 est.)
  commodities:
    machinery and transportation equipment, foodstuffs, manufactured goods,
    fuels, lubricants, and related materials
  partners:
    NA
External debt:
    $2.05 million (1987)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 8.1% (1986); accounts for 10% of GDP
Electricity:
    5,271 kW capacity; 12 million kWh produced, 960 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    tourism; light manufacturing - rum, textiles, electronic appliances
Agriculture:
    accounts for 4% of GDP; small-scale farming; food crops - tomatoes, onions,
    peppers; not self-sufficient in food, especially livestock products
Economic aid:
    Western (non-US) countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $90
    million
Currency:
    East Caribbean dollar (plural - dollars); 1 EC dollar (EC$) = 100 cents
Exchange rates:
    East Caribbean dollars (EC$) per US$1 - 2.70 (fixed rate since 1976)
Fiscal year:
    1 April - 31 March

:Montserrat Communications

Highways:
    280 km total; about 200 km paved, 80 km gravel and earth
Ports:
    Plymouth
Airports:
    1 with permanent-surface runways 1,036 m
Telecommunications:
    3,000 telephones; broadcast stations - 8 AM, 4 FM, 1 TV

:Montserrat Defense Forces

Branches:
    Police Force
Note:
    defense is the responsibility of the UK

:Morocco Geography

Total area:
    446,550 km2
Land area:
    446,300 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than California
Land boundaries:
    2,002 km; Algeria 1,559 km, Western Sahara 443 km
Coastline:
    1,835 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    24 nm
  Continental shelf:
    200 m (depth) or to depth of exploitation
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    claims and administers Western Sahara, but sovereignty is unresolved; the UN
    is attempting to hold a referendum; the UN-administered cease-fire has been
    currently in effect since September 1991 Spain controls five places of
    sovereignty (plazas de soberania) on and off the coast of Morocco - the
    coastal enclaves of Ceuta and Melilla which Morocco contests as well as the
    islands of Penon de Alhucemas, Penon de Velez de la Gomera, and Islas
    Chafarinas
Climate:
    Mediterranean, becoming more extreme in the interior
Terrain:
    mostly mountains with rich coastal plains
Natural resources:
    phosphates, iron ore, manganese, lead, zinc, fish, salt
Land use:
    arable land 18%; permanent crops 1%; meadows and pastures 28%; forest and
    woodland 12%; other 41%; includes irrigated 1%
Environment:
    northern mountains geologically unstable and subject to earthquakes;
    desertification
Note:
    strategic location along Strait of Gibraltar

:Morocco People

Population:
    26,708,587 (July 1992), growth rate 2.1% (1992)
Birth rate:
    29 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    8 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    - 1 migrant/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    56 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    63 years male, 67 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    3.7 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Moroccan(s); adjective - Moroccan
Ethnic divisions:
    Arab-Berber 99.1%, non-Moroccan 0.7%, Jewish 0.2%
Religions:
    Muslim 98.7%, Christian 1.1%, Jewish 0.2%
Languages:
    Arabic (official); several Berber dialects; French is often the language of
    business, government, and diplomacy
Literacy:
    50% (male 61%, female 38%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    7,400,000; agriculture 50%, services 26%, industry 15%, other 9% (1985)
Organized labor:
    about 5% of the labor force, mainly in the Union of Moroccan Workers (UMT)
    and the Democratic Confederation of Labor (CDT)

:Morocco Government

Long-form name:
    Kingdom of Morocco
Type:
    constitutional monarchy
Capital:
    Rabat
Administrative divisions:
    37 provinces and 5 municipalities* (wilayas, singular - wilaya); Agadir, Al
    Hoceima, Azilal, Beni Mellal, Ben Slimane, Boulemane, Casablanca*, Chaouen,
    El Jadida, El Kelaa des Srarhna, Er Rachidia, Essaouira, Fes, Fes*, Figuig,
    Guelmim, Ifrane, Kenitra, Khemisset, Khenifra, Khouribga, Laayoune, Larache,
    Marrakech, Marrakech*, Meknes, Meknes*, Nador, Ouarzazate, Oujda,
    Rabat-Sale*, Safi, Settat, Sidi Kacem, Tanger, Tan-Tan, Taounate,
    Taroudannt, Tata, Taza, Tetouan, Tiznit
Independence:
    2 March 1956 (from France)
Constitution:
    10 March 1972
Legal system:
    based on Islamic law and French and Spanish civil law system; judicial
    review of legislative acts in Constitutional Chamber of Supreme Court
National holiday:
    National Day (anniversary of King Hassan II's accession to the throne), 3
    March (1961)
Executive branch:
    monarch, prime minister, Council of Ministers (cabinet)
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Chamber of Representatives (Majlis Nawab)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    King HASSAN II (since 3 March 1961)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Dr. Azzedine LARAKI (since 30 September 1986)
Political parties and leaders:
    Morocco has 15 political parties; the major ones are Istiqlal, M'Hamed
    BOUCETTA; Socialist Union of Popular Forces (USFP); Popular Movement (MP),
    Secretariat General; National Assembly of Independents (RNI), Ahmed OSMAN;
    National Democratic Party (PND), Mohamed Arsalane EL-JADIDI; Party for
    Progress and Socialism (PPS); Constitutional Union (UC), Maati BOUABID
Suffrage:
    universal at age 21
Elections:
  Chamber of Representatives:
    last held on 14 September 1984 (were scheduled for September 1990, but
    postponed until NA 1992); results - percent of vote by party NA; seats -
    (306 total, 206 elected) CU 83, RNI 61, MP 47, Istiqlal 41, USFP 36, PND 24,
    other 14
Communists:
    about 2,000
Member of:
    ABEDA, ACCT (associate), AfDB, AFESD, AL, AMF, AMU, CCC, EBRD, ECA, FAO,
    G-77, GATT, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IIB, ILO,
    IMF, IMO, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, ISO, ITU, LORCS, OAS (observer), NAM,
    OIC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

:Morocco Government

Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Mohamed BELKHAYAT; Chancery at 1601 21st Street NW, Washington,
    DC 20009; telephone (202) 462-7979; there is a Moroccan Consulate General in
    New York
  US:
    Ambassador Frederick VREELAND; Embassy at 2 Avenue de Marrakech, Rabat
    (mailing address is P. O. Box 120, Rabat, or PSC 74, APO AE 09718; telephone
    [212] (7) 76-22-65; FAX [212] (7) 76-56-61; there is a US Consulate General
    in Casablanca
Flag:
    red with a green pentacle (five-pointed, linear star) known as Solomon's
    seal in the center of the flag; green is the traditional color of Islam

:Morocco Economy

Overview:
    The economy had recovered moderately in 1990 because of: the resolution of a
    trade dispute with India over phosphoric acid sales, a rebound in textile
    sales to the EC, lower prices for food imports, a sharp increase in worker
    remittances, increased Arab donor aid, and generous debt rescheduling
    agreements. Economic performance in 1991 was mixed. A record harvest helped
    real GDP advance by 4.2%, although nonagricultural output grew by less than
    1%. Inflation accelerated slightly as easier financial policies triggered
    rapid credit and monetary growth. Despite recovery of domestic demand,
    import volume growth slowed while export volume was adversely affected by
    phosphate marketing difficulties. In January 1992, Morocco reached a new
    12-month standby arrangement for $129 million with the IMF. In February
    1992, the Paris Club rescheduled $1.4 billion of Morocco's commercial debt.
    This is thought to be Morocco's last rescheduling. By 1993 the Moroccan
    authorities hope to be in a position to meet all debt service obligations
    without additional rescheduling. Servicing this large debt, high
    unemployment, and Morocco's vulnerability to external economic forces remain
    severe long-term problems.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $27.3 billion, per capita $1,060; real growth
    rate 4.2% (1991)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    8.1% (1991 )
Unemployment rate:
    16% (1991)
Budget:
    revenues $7.5 billion; expenditures $7.7 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $1.9 billion (1992)
Exports:
    $4.1 billion (f.o.b., 1991)
  commodities:
    food and beverages 30%, semiprocessed goods 23%, consumer goods 21%,
    phosphates 17%
  partners:
    EC 58%, India 7%, Japan 5%, USSR 3%, US 2%
Imports:
    $6.0 billion (f.o.b., 1991)
  commodities:
    capital goods 24%, semiprocessed goods 22%, raw materials 16%, fuel and
    lubricants 16%, food and beverages 13%, consumer goods 9%
  partners:
    EC 53%, US 11%, Canada 4%, Iraq 3%, USSR 3%, Japan 2%
External debt:
    $20 billion (1991)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 4% (1989 est.); accounts for an estimated 20% of GDP
Electricity:
    2,270,000 kW capacity; 8,170 million kWh produced, 310 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    phosphate rock mining and processing, food processing, leather goods,
    textiles, construction, tourism
Agriculture:
    50% of employment and 30% of export value; not self-sufficient in food;
    cereal farming and livestock raising predominate; barley, wheat, citrus
    fruit, wine, vegetables, olives; fishing catch of 491,000 metric tons in
    1987

:Morocco Economy

Illicit drugs:
    illicit producer of hashish; trafficking on the increase for both domestic
    and international drug markets; shipments of hashish mostly directed to
    Western Europe; occasional transit point for cocaine from South America
    destined for Western Europe.
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $1.3 billion; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $7.5 billion; OPEC
    bilateral aid (1979-89), $4.8 billion; Communist countries (1970-89), $2.5
    billion; $2.8 billion debt canceled by Saudi Arabia (1991); IMF standby
    agreement worth $13 million; World Bank, $450 million (1991)
Currency:
    Moroccan dirham (plural - dirhams); 1 Moroccan dirham (DH) = 100 centimes
Exchange rates:
    Moroccan dirhams (DH) per US$1 - 8.889 (March 1992), 8.707 (1991), 8.242
    (1990), 8.488 (1989), 8.209 (1988), 8.359 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Morocco Communications

Railroads:
    1,893 km 1.435-meter standard gauge (246 km double track, 974 km
    electrified)
Highways:
    59,198 km total; 27,740 km paved, 31,458 km gravel, crushed stone, improved
    earth, and unimproved earth
Pipelines:
    crude oil 362 km; petroleum products (abandoned) 491 km; natural gas 241 km
Ports:
    Agadir, Casablanca, El Jorf Lasfar, Kenitra, Mohammedia, Nador, Safi,
    Tangier; also Spanish-controlled Ceuta and Melilla
Merchant marine:
    51 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 315,249 GRT/487,479 DWT; includes 10
    cargo, 2 container, 12 refrigerated cargo, 6 roll-on/roll-off, 3 petroleum
    tanker, 11 chemical tanker, 4 bulk, 3 short-sea passenger
Civil air:
    28 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    75 total, 67 usable; 26 with permanent-surface runways; 2 with runways over
    3,659 m; 13 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 27 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    good system composed of wire lines, cables, and radio relay links; principal
    centers are Casablanca and Rabat; secondary centers are Fes, Marrakech,
    Oujda, Tangier, and Tetouan; 280,000 telephones; broadcast stations - 20 AM,
    7 FM, 26 TV and 26 additional rebroadcast sites; 5 submarine cables;
    satellite earth stations - 2 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT and 1 ARABSAT; radio
    relay to Gibraltar, Spain, and Western Sahara; coaxial cable and microwave
    to Algeria; microwave network linking Syria, Jordan, Egypt, Libya, Tunisia,
    Algeria, and Morocco

:Morocco Defense Forces

Branches:
    Royal Moroccan Army, Royal Moroccan Navy, Royal Moroccan Air Force, Royal
    Gendarmerie, Auxiliary Forces
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 6,604,712; 4,196,449 fit for military service; 293,204 reach
    military age (18) annually; limited conscription
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $1.1 billion, 4.2% of GDP (1992 budget)

:Mozambique Geography

Total area:
    801,590 km2
Land area:
    784,090 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly less than twice the size of California
Land boundaries:
    4,571 km total; Malawi 1,569 km, South Africa 491 km, Swaziland 105 km,
    Tanzania 756 km, Zambia 419 km, Zimbabwe 1,231 km
Coastline:
    2,470 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    tropical to subtropical
Terrain:
    mostly coastal lowlands, uplands in center, high plateaus in northwest,
    mountains in west
Natural resources:
    coal, titanium
Land use:
    arable land 4%; permanent crops NEGL%; meadows and pastures 56%; forest and
    woodland 20%; other 20%; includes irrigated NEGL%
Environment:
    severe drought and floods occur in south; desertification

:Mozambique People

Population:
    15,469,150 (July 1992), growth rate 4.1% (1992); note - 1.5 million
    Mozambican refugees; 900,000 in Malawi (1991 est.)
Birth rate:
    46 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    17 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    12 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    134 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    46 years male, 49 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    6.4 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Mozambican(s); adjective - Mozambican
Ethnic divisions:
    majority from indigenous tribal groups; Europeans about 10,000,
    Euro-Africans 35,000, Indians 15,000
Religions:
    indigenous beliefs 60%, Christian 30%, Muslim 10%
Languages:
    Portuguese (official); many indigenous dialects
Literacy:
    33% (male 45%, female 21%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    NA, but 90% engaged in agriculture
Organized labor:
    225,000 workers belong to a single union, the Mozambique Workers'
    Organization (OTM)

:Mozambique Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Mozambique
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Maputo
Administrative divisions:
    10 provinces (provincias, singular - provincia); Cabo Delgado, Gaza,
    Inhambane, Manica, Maputo, Nampula, Niassa, Sofala, Tete, Zambezia
Independence:
    25 June 1975 (from Portugal)
Constitution:
    30 November 1990
Legal system:
    based on Portuguese civil law system and customary law
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 25 June (1975)
Executive branch:
    president, prime minister, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Assembly of the Republic (Assembleia da Republica)
Judicial branch:
    People's Courts at all levels
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Joaquim Alberto CHISSANO (since 6 November 1986)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Mario da Graca MACHUNGO (since 17 July 1986)
Political parties and leaders:
    Front for the Liberation of Mozambique (FRELIMO) - formerly a Marxist
    organization with close ties to the USSR - was the only legal party before
    30 November 1990 when the new Constitution went into effect establishing a
    multiparty system; note - the government plans multiparty elections as early
    as 1993; 14 parties, including the Liberal Democratic Party of Mozambique
    (PALMO), the Mozambique National Union (UNAMO), and the Mozambique National
    Movement (MONAMO) have already emerged
Suffrage:
    universal adult at age 18
Elections:
    draft electoral law provides for periodic, direct presidential and Assembly
    elections
Communists:
    about 200,000 FRELIMO members; note - FRELIMO no longer considers itself a
    Communist party
Member of:
    ACP, AfDB, CCC, ECA, FAO, FLS, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, IDA, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF,
    INMARSAT, IMO, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, ITU, LORCS, NAM, OAU, SADCC, UN,
    UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WHO, WMO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Hipolito PATRICIO; Chancery at Suite 570, 1990 M Street NW,
    Washington, DC 20036; telephone (202) 293-7146
  US:
    Ambassador Townsend B. FRIEDMAN, Jr.; Embassy at Avenida Kenneth Kuanda, 193
    Maputo (mailing address is P. O. Box 783, Maputo); telephone [258] (1)
    49-27-97, 49-01-67, 49-03-50; FAX [258] (1) 49-01-14

:Mozambique Government

Flag:
    three equal horizontal bands of green (top), black, and yellow with a red
    isosceles triangle based on the hoist side; the black band is edged in
    white; centered in the triangle is a yellow five-pointed star bearing a
    crossed rifle and hoe in black superimposed on an open white book

:Mozambique Economy

Overview:
    One of Africa's poorest countries, Mozambique has failed to exploit the
    economic potential of its sizable agricultural, hydropower, and
    transportation resources. Indeed, national output, consumption, and
    investment declined throughout the first half of the 1980s because of
    internal disorders, lack of government administrative control, and a growing
    foreign debt. A sharp increase in foreign aid, attracted by an economic
    reform policy, has resulted in successive years of economic growth since
    1985. Agricultural output, nevertheless, is at about only 75% of its 1981
    level, and grain has to be imported. Industry operates at only 20-40% of
    capacity. The economy depends heavily on foreign assistance to keep afloat.
    The continuation of civil strife through 1991 has dimmed chances of foreign
    investment, and growth was a mere 1%. Living standards, already abysmally
    low, dropped by 3-4% in both 1990 and 1991.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $1.7 billion, per capita $120; real growth rate
    1.0% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    40.5% (1990 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    50% (1989 est.)
Budget:
    revenues $369 million; expenditures $860 million, including capital
    expenditures of $432 million (1989 est.)
Exports:
    $117 million (f.o.b., 1990 est.)
  commodities:
    shrimp 48%, cashews 21%, sugar 10%, copra 3%, citrus 3%
  partners:
    US, Western Europe, GDR, Japan
Imports:
    $870 million (c.i.f., 1990 est.), including aid
  commodities:
    food, clothing, farm equipment, petroleum
  partners:
    US, Western Europe, USSR
External debt:
    $4.9 billion (1991 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 5% (1989 est.)
Electricity:
    2,270,000 kW capacity; 1,745 million kWh produced, 115 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    food, beverages, chemicals (fertilizer, soap, paints), petroleum products,
    textiles, nonmetallic mineral products (cement, glass, asbestos), tobacco
Agriculture:
    accounts for 80% of the labor force, 50% of GDP, and about 90% of exports;
    cash crops - cotton, cashew nuts, sugarcane, tea, shrimp; other crops -
    cassava, corn, rice, tropical fruits; not self-sufficient in food
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $350 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $4.4 billion; OPEC
    bilateral aid (1979-89), $37 million; Communist countries (1970-89), $890
    million
Currency:
    metical (plural - meticais); 1 metical (Mt) = 100 centavos
Exchange rates:
    meticais (Mt) per US$1 - 2,358 (1 May 1992), 1,811.18 (1991), 929.00 (1990),
    800.00 (1989), 528.60 (1988), 289.44 (1987)

:Mozambique Economy

Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Mozambique Communications

Railroads:
    3,288 km total; 3,140 km 1.067-meter gauge; 148 km 0.762-meter narrow gauge;
    Malawi-Nacala, Malawi-Beira, and Zimbabwe-Maputo lines are subject to
    closure because of insurgency
Highways:
    26,498 km total; 4,593 km paved; 829 km gravel, crushed stone, stabilized
    soil; 21,076 km unimproved earth
Inland waterways:
    about 3,750 km of navigable routes
Pipelines:
    crude oil (not operating) 306 km; petroleum products 289 km
Ports:
    Maputo, Beira, Nacala
Merchant marine:
    5 cargo ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 7,806 GRT/12,873 DWT
Civil air:
    7 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    195 total, 137 usable; 27 with permanent-surface runways; 1 with runways
    over 3,659 m; 5 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 26 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    fair system of troposcatter, open-wire lines, and radio relay; broadcast
    stations - 29 AM, 4 FM, 1 TV; earth stations - 2 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT and
    3 domestic Indian Ocean INTELSAT

:Mozambique Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Naval Command, Air and Air Defense Forces, Border Guards, Militia
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 3,490,554; 2,004,913 fit for military service
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $107 million, 6-7% of GDP (1989)

:Namibia Geography

Total area:
    824,290 km2
Land area:
    823,290 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly more than half the size of Alaska
Land boundaries:
    3,935 km total; Angola 1,376 km, Botswana 1,360 km, South Africa 966 km,
    Zambia 233 km
Coastline:
    1,489 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    short section of boundary with Botswana is indefinite; disputed island with
    Botswana in the Chobe River; quadripoint with Botswana, Zambia, and Zimbabwe
    is in disagreement; claim by Namibia to Walvis Bay and 12 offshore islands
    administered by South Africa; Namibia and South Africa have agreed to
    jointly administer the area for an interim period; the terms and dates to be
    covered by joint administration arrangements have not been established at
    this time, and Namibia will continue to maintain a claim to sovereignty over
    the entire area; recent dispute with Botswana over uninhabited Sidudu Island
    in the Linyanti River
Climate:
    desert; hot, dry; rainfall sparse and erratic
Terrain:
    mostly high plateau; Namib Desert along coast; Kalahari Desert in east
Natural resources:
    diamonds, copper, uranium, gold, lead, tin, lithium, cadmium, zinc, salt,
    vanadium, natural gas, fish; suspected deposits of oil, natural gas, coal,
    and iron ore
Land use:
    arable land 1%; permanent crops NEGL%; meadows and pastures 64%; forest and
    woodland 22%; other 13%; includes irrigated NEGL%
Environment:
    inhospitable with very limited natural water resources; desertification
Note:
    Walvis Bay area is an exclave of South Africa in Namibia

:Namibia People

Population:
    1,574,927 (July 1992), growth rate 3.5% (1992)
Birth rate:
    45 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    9 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    66 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    58 years male, 63 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    6.5 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Namibian(s); adjective - Namibian
Ethnic divisions:
    black 86%, white 6.6%, mixed 7.4%; about 50% of the population belong to the
    Ovambo tribe and 9% from the Kavangos tribe
Religions:
    predominantly Christian
Languages:
    English is official language; Afrikaans is common language of most of
    population and about 60% of white population, German 32%, English 7%;
    several indigenous languages
Literacy:
    38% (male 45%, female 31%) age 15 and over can read and write (1960)
Labor force:
    500,000; agriculture 60%, industry and commerce 19%, services 8%, government
    7%, mining 6% (1981 est.)
Organized labor:
    20 trade unions representing about 90,000 workers

:Namibia Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Namibia
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Windhoek
Administrative divisions:
    the former administrative structure of 26 districts has been abolished and
    14 temporary regions are still being determined; note - the 26 districts
    were Bethanien, Boesmanland, Caprivi Oos, Damaraland, Gobabis, Grootfontein,
    Hereroland Oos, Hereroland Wes, Kaokoland, Karasburg, Karibib, Kavango,
    Keetmanshoop, Luderitz, Maltahohe, Mariental, Namaland, Okahandja, Omaruru,
    Otjiwarongo, Outjo, Owambo, Rehoboth, Swakopmund, Tsumeb, Windhoek
Independence:
    21 March 1990 (from South African mandate)
Constitution:
    ratified 9 February 1990
Legal system:
    based on Roman-Dutch law and 1990 constitution
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 21 March (1990)
Executive branch:
    president, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    bicameral; House of Review (upper house, to be established with elections in
    late 1992 by planned new regional authorities); National Assembly (lower
    house elected by universal suffrage)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State and Head of Government:
    President Sam NUJOMA (since 21 March 1990)
Political parties and leaders:
    South-West Africa People's Organization (SWAPO), Sam NUJOMA; Democratic
    Turnhalle Alliance (DTA), Dirk MUDGE; United Democratic Front (UDF), Justus
    GAROEB; Action Christian National (ACN), Kosie PRETORIUS; National Patriotic
    Front (NPF), Moses KATJIUONGUA; Federal Convention of Namibia (FCN), Hans
    DIERGAARDT; Namibia National Front (NNF), Vekuii RUKORO
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  President:
    last held 16 February 1990 (next to be held March 1995); results - Sam
    NUJOMA was elected president by the Constituent Assembly (now the National
    Assembly)
  National Assembly:
    last held on 7-11 November 1989 (next to be held by November 1994); results
    - percent of vote by party NA; seats - (72 total) SWAPO 41, DTA 21, UDF 4,
    ACN 3, NNF 1, FCN 1, NPF 1
Other political or pressure groups:
    NA
Member of:
    ACP, AfDB, CECA (associate), ECA, FAO, FLS, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ILO,
    IMF, ITU, NAM, SACU, SADCC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, WCL, WFTU, WHO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Tuliameni KALOMOH; Chancery at 1605 New Hampshire Ave. NW,
    Washington, DC 20009 (mailing address is PO Box 34738, Washington, DC
    20043); telephone (202) 986-0540

:Namibia Government

  US:
    Ambassador Genta Hawkins HOLMES; Embassy at Ausplan Building, 14 Lossen St.,
    Windhoek (mailing address is P. O. Box 9890, Windhoek 9000, Namibia);
    telephone [264] (61) 221-601, 222-675, 222-680; FAX [264] (61) 229-792
Flag:
    a large blue triangle with a yellow sunburst fills the upper left section,
    and an equal green triangle (solid) fills the lower right section; the
    triangles are separated by a red stripe that is contrasted by two narrow
    white-edge borders

:Namibia Economy

Overview:
    The economy is heavily dependent on the mining industry to extract and
    process minerals for export. Mining accounts for almost 25% of GDP. Namibia
    is the fourth-largest exporter of nonfuel minerals in Africa and the world's
    fifth-largest producer of uranium. Alluvial diamond deposits are among the
    richest in the world, making Namibia a primary source for gem-quality
    diamonds. Namibia also produces large quantities of lead, zinc, tin, silver,
    and tungsten, and it has substantial resources of coal. More than half the
    population depends on agriculture (largely subsistence agriculture) for its
    livelihood.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $2 billion, per capita $1,400; real growth rate
    5.1% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    17% (1991 - Windhoek)
Unemployment rate:
    over 25% (1991)
Budget:
    revenues $864 million; expenditures $1,112 million, including capital
    expenditures of $144 million (FY 92)
Exports:
    $1,021 million (f.o.b., 1989)
  commodities:
    uranium, diamonds, zinc, copper, cattle, processed fish, karakul skins
  partners:
    Switzerland, South Africa, FRG, Japan
Imports:
    $894 million (f.o.b., 1989)
  commodities:
    foodstuffs, petroleum products and fuel, machinery and equipment
  partners:
    South Africa, FRG, US, Switzerland
External debt:
    about $250 million; under a 1971 International Court of Justice (ICJ)
    ruling, Namibia may not be liable for debt incurred during its colonial
    period
Industrial production:
    growth rate - 6% (1990 est.); accounts for 35% of GDP, including mining
Electricity:
    490,000 kW capacity; 1,290 million kWh produced, 850 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    meatpacking, fish processing, dairy products, mining (copper, lead, zinc,
    diamond, uranium)
Agriculture:
    mostly subsistence farming; livestock raising major source of cash income;
    crops - millet, sorghum, peanuts; fish catch potential of over 1 million
    metric tons not being fulfilled, 1988 catch reaching only 384,000 metric
    tons; not self-sufficient in food
Economic aid:
    Western (non-US) countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-87),
    $47.2 million
Currency:
    South African rand (plural - rand); 1 South African rand (R) = 100 cents
Exchange rates:
    South African rand (R) per US$1 - 2.8809 (March 1992), 2.7653 (1991), 2.5863
    (1990), 2.6166 (1989), 2.2611 (1988), 2.0350 (1987), 2.2685 (1986)
Fiscal year:
    1 April - 31 March

:Namibia Communications

Railroads:
    2,341 km 1.067-meter gauge, single track
Highways:
    54,500 km; 4,079 km paved, 2,540 km gravel, 47,881 km earth roads and tracks
Ports:
    Luderitz; primary maritime outlet is Walvis Bay (South Africa)
Civil air:
    NA major transport aircraft
Airports:
    137 total, 112 usable; 21 with permanent-surface runways; 1 with runways
    over 3,659 m; 4 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 63 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    good urban, fair rural services; radio relay connects major towns, wires
    extend to other population centers; 62,800 telephones; broadcast stations -
    4 AM, 40 FM, 3 TV

:Namibia Defense Forces

Branches:
    National Defense Force (Army), Police
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 320,277; 189,997 fit for military service
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $66 million, 3.4% of GDP (FY 92)

:Nauru Geography

Total area:
    21 km2
Land area:
    21 km2
Comparative area:
    about one-tenth the size of Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    30 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive fishing zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    tropical; monsoonal; rainy season (November to February)
Terrain:
    sandy beach rises to fertile ring around raised coral reefs with phosphate
    plateau in center
Natural resources:
    phosphates
Land use:
    arable land 0%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 0%; forest and
    woodland 0%; other 100%
Environment:
    only 53 km south of Equator
Note:
    located 500 km north-northeast of Papua New Guinea, Nauru is one of the
    three great phosphate rock islands in the Pacific Ocean - the others are
    Banaba (Ocean Island) in Kiribati and Makatea in French Polynesia

:Nauru People

Population:
    9,460 (July 1992), growth rate 1.3% (1992)
Birth rate:
    18 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    5 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    NEGL migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    41 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    64 years male, 69 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    2.1 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Nauruan(s); adjective - Nauruan
Ethnic divisions:
    Nauruan 58%, other Pacific Islander 26%, Chinese 8%, European 8%
Religions:
    Christian (two-thirds Protestant, one-third Roman Catholic)
Languages:
    Nauruan, a distinct Pacific Island language (official); English widely
    understood, spoken, and used for most government and commercial purposes
Literacy:
    NA% (male NA%, female NA%)
Labor force:
    NA
Organized labor:
    NA

:Nauru Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Nauru
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    no capital city as such; government offices in Yaren District
Administrative divisions:
    14 districts; Aiwo, Anabar, Anetan, Anibare, Baiti, Boe, Buada, Denigomodu,
    Ewa, Ijuw, Meneng, Nibok, Uaboe, Yaren
Independence:
    31 January 1968 (from UN trusteeship under Australia, New Zealand, and UK);
    formerly Pleasant Island
Constitution:
    29 January 1968
Legal system:
    own Acts of Parliament and British common law
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 31 January (1968)
Executive branch:
    president, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Parliament
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State and Head of Government:
    President Bernard DOWIYOGO (since 12 December 1989)
Political parties and leaders:
    none
Suffrage:
    universal and compulsory at age 20
Elections:
  President:
    last held 9 December 1989 (next to be held December 1992); results - Bernard
    DOWIYOGO elected by Parliament
  Parliament:
    last held on 9 December 1989 (next to be held December 1992); results -
    percent of vote NA; seats - (18 total) independents 18
Member of:
    C (special), ESCAP, ICAO, INTERPOL, ITU, SPC, SPF, UPU
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador-designate Theodore Conrad MOSES resident in Melbourne
    (Australia); there is a Nauruan Consulate in Agana (Guam)
  US:
    the US Ambassador to Australia is accredited to Nauru
Flag:
    blue with a narrow, horizontal, yellow stripe across the center and a large
    white 12-pointed star below the stripe on the hoist side; the star indicates
    the country's location in relation to the Equator (the yellow stripe) and
    the 12 points symbolize the 12 original tribes of Nauru

:Nauru Economy

Overview:
    Revenues come from the export of phosphates, the reserves of which are
    expected to be exhausted by the year 2000. Phosphates have given Nauruans
    one of the highest per capita incomes in the Third World - $10,000 annually.
    Few other resources exist, so most necessities must be imported, including
    fresh water from Australia. The rehabilitation of mined land and the
    replacement of income from phosphates are serious long-term problems.
    Substantial amounts of phosphate income are invested in trust funds to help
    cushion the transition.
GNP:
    exchange rate conversion - over $90 million, per capita $10,000; real growth
    rate NA% (1989)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    NA%
Unemployment rate:
    0%
Budget:
    revenues $69.7 million; expenditures $51.5 million, including capital
    expenditures of $NA (FY86 est.)
Exports:
    $93 million (f.o.b., 1984)
  commodities:
    phosphates
  partners:
    Australia, NZ
Imports:
    $73 million (c.i.f., 1984)
  commodities:
    food, fuel, manufactures, building materials, machinery
  partners:
    Australia, UK, NZ, Japan
External debt:
    $33.3 million
Industrial production:
    growth rate NA%
Electricity:
    14,000 kW capacity; 50 million kWh produced, 5,430 kWh per capita (1990)
Industries:
    phosphate mining, financial services, coconuts
Agriculture:
    negligible; almost completely dependent on imports for food and water
Economic aid:
    Western (non-US) countries (1970-89), $2 million
Currency:
    Australian dollar (plural - dollars); 1 Australian dollar ($A) = 100 cents
Exchange rates:
    Australian dollars ($A) per US$1 - 1.3177 (March 1992), 1.2834 (1991),
    1.2799 (1990), 1.2618 (1989), 1.2752 (1988), 1.4267 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    1 July - 30 June

:Nauru Communications

Railroads:
    3.9 km; used to haul phosphates from the center of the island to processing
    facilities on the southwest coast
Highways:
    about 27 km total; 21 km paved, 6 km improved earth
Ports:
    Nauru
Merchant marine:
    1 bulk ship (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 4,426 GRT/5,750 DWT
Civil air:
    3 major transport aircraft, one on order
Airports:
    1 with permanent-surface runway 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    adequate local and international radio communications provided via
    Australian facilities; 1,600 telephones; 4,000 radios; broadcast stations -
    1 AM, no FM, no TV; 1 Pacific Ocean INTELSAT earth station

:Nauru Defense Forces

Branches:
    no regular armed forces; Directorate of the Nauru Police Force
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, NA; NA fit for military service
Defense expenditures:
    $NA - no formal defense structure

:Navassa Island Geography

Total area:
    5.2 km2
Land area:
    5.2 km2
Comparative area:
    about nine times the size of the Mall in Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    8 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    12 nm
  Continental shelf:
    200 m (depth)
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    claimed by Haiti
Climate:
    marine, tropical
Terrain:
    raised coral and limestone plateau, flat to undulating; ringed by vertical
    white cliffs (9 to 15 meters high)
Natural resources:
    guano
Land use:
    arable land 0%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 10%; forest and
    woodland 0%; other 90%
Environment:
    mostly exposed rock, but enough grassland to support goat herds; dense
    stands of fig-like trees, scattered cactus
Note:
    strategic location between Cuba, Haiti, and Jamaica in the Caribbean Sea;
    160 km south of the US Naval Base at Guantanamo, Cuba

:Navassa Island People

Population:
    uninhabited; transient Haitian fishermen and others camp on the island

:Navassa Island Government

Long-form name:
    none (territory of the US)
Type:
    unincorporated territory of the US administered by the US Coast Guard
Capital:
    none; administered from Washington, DC

:Navassa Island Economy

Overview:
    no economic activity

:Navassa Island Communications

Ports:
    none; offshore anchorage only

:Navassa Island Defense Forces

Note:
    defense is the responsibility of the US

:Nepal Geography

Total area:
    140,800 km2
Land area:
    136,800 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than Arkansas
Land boundaries:
    2,926 km total; China 1,236 km, India 1,690 km
Coastline:
    none - landlocked
Maritime claims:
    none - landlocked
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    varies from cool summers and severe winters in north to subtropical summers
    and mild winters in south
Terrain:
    Terai or flat river plain of the Ganges in south, central hill region,
    rugged Himalayas in north
Natural resources:
    quartz, water, timber, hydroelectric potential, scenic beauty; small
    deposits of lignite, copper, cobalt, iron ore
Land use:
    arable land 17%; permanent crops NEGL%; meadows and pastures 13%; forest and
    woodland 33%; other 37%; includes irrigated 2%
Environment:
    contains eight of world's 10 highest peaks; deforestation; soil erosion;
    water pollution
Note:
    landlocked; strategic location between China and India

:Nepal People

Population:
    20,086,455 (July 1992), growth rate 2.4% (1992)
Birth rate:
    38 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    14 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    90 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    51 years male, 51 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    5.4 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Nepalese (singular and plural); adjective - Nepalese
Ethnic divisions:
    Newars, Indians, Tibetans, Gurungs, Magars, Tamangs, Bhotias, Rais, Limbus,
    Sherpas, as well as many smaller groups
Religions:
    only official Hindu state in world, although no sharp distinction between
    many Hindu (about 90% of population) and Buddhist groups (about 5% of
    population); Muslims 3%, other 2% (1981)
Languages:
    Nepali (official); 20 languages divided into numerous dialects
Literacy:
    26% (male 38%, female 13%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    8,500,000 (1991 est.); agriculture 93%, services 5%, industry 2%; severe
    lack of skilled labor
Organized labor:
    Teachers' Union and many other nonofficially recognized unions

:Nepal Government

Long-form name:
    Kingdom of Nepal
Type:
    parliamentary democracy as of 12 May 1991
Capital:
    Kathmandu
Administrative divisions:
    14 zones (anchal, singular and plural); Bagmati, Bheri, Dhawalagiri,
    Gandaki, Janakpur, Karnali, Kosi, Lumbini, Mahakali, Mechi, Narayani, Rapti,
    Sagarmatha, Seti
Independence:
    1768, unified by Prithyi Narayan Shah
Constitution:
    9 November 1990
Legal system:
    based on Hindu legal concepts and English common law; has not accepted
    compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
National holiday:
    Birthday of His Majesty the King, 28 December (1945)
Executive branch:
    monarch, prime minister, Council of Ministers
Legislative branch:
    bicameral Parliament consists of an upper house or National Council and a
    lower house or House of Representatives
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court (Sarbochha Adalat)
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    King BIRENDRA Bir Bikram Shah Dev (since 31 January 1972, crowned King 24
    February 1985); Heir Apparent Crown Prince DIPENDRA Bir Bikram Shah Dev, son
    of the King (born 21 June 1971)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Girija Prasad KOIRALA (since 29 May 1991)
Political parties and leaders:
  ruling party:
    Nepali Congress Party (NCP), Girija Prasad KOIRALA, Ganesh Man SINGH,
    Krishna Prasad BHATTARAI
  center:
    the NDP has two factions: National Democratic Party/Chand (NDP/Chand),
    Lokinra Bahadur CHAND, and National Democratic Party/Thapa (NDP/Thapa),
    Surya Bahadur THAPA - the two factions announced a merger in late 1991;
    Terai Rights Sadbhavana (Goodwill) Party, G. N. Naryan SINGH
  Communist:
    Communist Party of Nepal/United Marxist and Leninist (CPN/UML), Man Mohan
    ADIKHARY; United People's Front (UPF), N. K. PRASAI, Lila Mani POKHAREL;
    Nepal Workers and Peasants Party, leader NA; Rohit Party, N. M. BIJUKCHHE;
    Democratic Party, leader NA
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  House of Representatives:
    last held on 12 May 1991 (next to be held May 1996); results - NCP 38%,
    CPN/UML 28%, NDP/Chand 6%, UPF 5%, NDP/Thapa 5%, Terai Rights Sadbhavana
    Party 4%, Rohit 2%, CPN (Democratic) 1%, independents 4%, other 7%; seats -
    (205 total) NCP 110, CPN/UML 69, UPF 9, Terai Rights Sadbhavana Party 6,
    NDP/Chand 3, Rohit 2, CPN (Democratic) 2, NDP/Thapa 1, independents 3; note
    - the new Constitution of 9 November 1990 gives Nepal a multiparty democracy
    system for the first time in 32 years

:Nepal Government

Communists:
    Communist Party of Nepal (CPN)
Other political or pressure groups:
    numerous small, left-leaning student groups in the capital; several small,
    radical Nepalese antimonarchist groups
Member of:
    AsDB, CCC, CP, ESCAP, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, IDA, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO,
    INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, ITU, LORCS, NAM, SAARC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO,
    UNIFIL, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Yog Prasad UPADHYAYA; Chancery at 2131 Leroy Place NW,
    Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 667-4550; there is a Nepalese
    Consulate General in New York
  US:
    Ambassador Julia Chang BLOCH; Embassy at Pani Pokhari, Kathmandu; telephone
    [977] (1) 411179 or 412718, 411604, 411613, 413890; FAX [977] (1) 419963
Flag:
    red with a blue border around the unique shape of two overlapping right
    triangles; the smaller, upper triangle bears a white stylized moon and the
    larger, lower triangle bears a white 12-pointed sun

:Nepal Economy

Overview:
    Nepal is among the poorest and least developed countries in the world.
    Agriculture is the mainstay of the economy, providing a livelihood for over
    90% of the population and accounting for 60% of GDP. Industrial activity is
    limited, mainly involving the processing of agricultural produce (jute,
    sugarcane, tobacco, and grain). Production of textiles and carpets has
    expanded recently and accounted for 87% of foreign exchange earnings in
    FY89. Apart from agricultural land and forests, the only other exploitable
    natural resources are mica, hydropower, and tourism. Agricultural production
    in the late 1980s grew by about 5%, as compared with annual population
    growth of 2.6%. Forty percent or more of the population is undernourished
    partly because of poor distribution. Since May 1991, the government has been
    encouraging privatization and foreign investment. It has introduced policies
    to eliminate many business licenses and registration requirements in order
    to simplify domestic and foreign investment procedures. Economic prospects
    for the 1990s remain poor because the economy starts from such a low base.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $3.2 billion, per capita $165; real growth rate
    3.5% (FY91)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    15.0% (December 1991)
Unemployment rate:
    5%; underemployment estimated at 25-40% (1987)
Budget:
    revenues $294.0 million; expenditures $624.0 million, including capital
    expenditures of $396 (FY92 est.)
Exports:
    $180 million (f.o.b., FY91) but does not include unrecorded border trade
    with India
  commodities:
    clothing, carpets, leather goods, grain
  partners:
    US, India, Germany, UK
Imports:
    $545 million (c.i.f., FY91 est.)
  commodities:
    petroleum products 20%, fertilizer 11%, machinery 10%
  partners:
    India, Singapore, Japan, Germany
External debt:
    $2.5 billion (April 1990 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 6% (FY91 est.); accounts for 7% of GDP
Electricity:
    280,000 kW capacity; 540 million kWh produced, 30 kWh per capita (1990)
Industries:
    small rice, jute, sugar, and oilseed mills; cigarette, textile, carpet,
    cement, and brick production; tourism
Agriculture:
    accounts for 60% of GDP and 90% of work force; farm products - rice, corn,
    wheat, sugarcane, root crops, milk, buffalo meat; not self-sufficient in
    food, particularly in drought years
Illicit drugs:
    illicit producer of cannabis for the domestic and international drug markets
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $304 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1980-89), $2,230 million; OPEC
    bilateral aid (1979-89), $30 million; Communist countries (1970-89), $286
    million

:Nepal Economy

Currency:
    Nepalese rupee (plural - rupees); 1 Nepalese rupee (NR) = 100 paisa
Exchange rates:
    Nepalese rupees (NRs) per US$1 - 42.7 (January 1992), 37.255 (1991), 29.370
    (1990), 27.189 (1989), 23.289 (1988), 21.819 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    16 July - 15 July

:Nepal Communications

Railroads:
    52 km (1990), all 0.762-meter narrow gauge; all in Terai close to Indian
    border; 10 km from Raxaul to Birganj is government owned
Highways:
    7,080 km total (1990); 2,898 km paved, 1,660 km gravel or crushed stone;
    also 2,522 km of seasonally motorable tracks
Civil air:
    5 major and 11 minor transport aircraft
Airports:
    37 total, 37 usable; 5 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 1 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 8 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    poor telephone and telegraph service; fair radio communication and broadcast
    service; international radio communication service is poor; 50,000
    telephones (1990); broadcast stations - 88 AM, no FM, 1 TV; 1 Indian Ocean
    INTELSAT earth station

:Nepal Defense Forces

Branches:
    Royal Nepalese Army, Royal Nepalese Army Air Service, Nepalese Police Force
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 4,798,984; 2,488,749 fit for military service; 225,873 reach
    military age (17) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $34 million, 2% of GDP (FY92)

:Netherlands Geography

Total area:
    37,330 km2
Land area:
    33,920 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly less than twice the size of New Jersey
Land boundaries:
    1,027 km total; Belgium 450 km, Germany 577 km
Coastline:
    451 km
Maritime claims:
  Continental shelf:
    not specific
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    temperate; marine; cool summers and mild winters
Terrain:
    mostly coastal lowland and reclaimed land (polders); some hills in southeast
Natural resources:
    natural gas, crude oil, fertile soil
Land use:
    arable land 26%; permanent crops 1%; meadows and pastures 32%; forest and
    woodland 9%; other 32%; includes irrigated 16%
Environment:
    27% of the land area is below sea level and protected from the North Sea by
    dikes
Note:
    located at mouths of three major European rivers (Rhine, Maas or Meuse,
    Schelde)

:Netherlands People

Population:
    15,112,064 (July 1992), growth rate 0.6% (1992)
Birth rate:
    13 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    8 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    1 migrant/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    7 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    75 years male, 81 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    1.6 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Dutchman(men), Dutchwoman(women); adjective - Dutch
Ethnic divisions:
    Dutch 96%, Moroccans, Turks, and other 4% (1988)
Religions:
    Roman Catholic 36%, Protestant 27%, other 6%, unaffiliated 31% (1988)
Languages:
    Dutch
Literacy:
    99% (male NA%, female NA%) age 15 and over can read and write (1979 est.)
Labor force:
    5,300,000; services 50.1%, manufacturing and construction 28.2%, government
    15.9%, agriculture 5.8% (1986)
Organized labor:
    29% of labor force

:Netherlands Government

Long-form name:
    Kingdom of the Netherlands
Type:
    constitutional monarchy
Capital:
    Amsterdam; The Hague is the seat of government
Administrative divisions:
    12 provinces (provincien, singular - provincie); Drenthe, Flevoland,
    Friesland, Gelderland, Groningen, Limburg, Noord-Brabant, Noord-Holland,
    Overijssel, Utrecht, Zeeland, Zuid-Holland
Independence:
    1579 (from Spain)
Constitution:
    17 February 1983
Dependent areas:
    Aruba, Netherlands Antilles
Legal system:
    civil law system incorporating French penal theory; judicial review in the
    Supreme Court of legislation of lower order rather than Acts of the States
    General; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with reservations
National holiday:
    Queen's Day, 30 April (1938)
Executive branch:
    monarch, prime minister, vice prime minister, Cabinet, Cabinet of Ministers
Legislative branch:
    bicameral legislature (Staten Generaal) consists of an upper chamber or
    First Chamber (Eerste Kamer) and a lower chamber or Second Chamber (Tweede
    Kamer)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court (De Hoge Raad)
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Queen BEATRIX Wilhelmina Armgard (since 30 April 1980); Heir Apparent
    WILLEM-ALEXANDER, Prince of Orange, son of Queen Beatrix (born 27 April
    1967)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Ruud (Rudolph) F. M. LUBBERS (since 4 November 1982); Vice
    Prime Minister Wim KOK (since 2 November 1989)
Political parties and leaders:
    Christian Democratic Appeal (CDA), Willem van VELZEN; Labor (PvdA), Wim KOK;
    Liberal (VVD), Joris VOORHOEVE; Democrats '66 (D'66), Hans van MIERIO; a
    host of minor parties
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  First Chamber:
    last held on 9 June l991 (next to be held 9 June 1995); results - elected by
    the country's 12 provincial councils; seats - (75 total) percent of seats by
    party NA
  Second Chamber:
    last held on 6 September 1989 (next to be held by September 1993); results -
    CDA 35.3%, PvdA 31. 9%, VVD 14.6%, D'66 7.9%, other 10.3%; seats - (150
    total) CDA 54, PvdA 49, VVD 22, D'66 12, other 13
Communists:
    about 6,000

:Netherlands Government

Other political or pressure groups:
    large multinational firms; Federation of Netherlands Trade Union Movement
    (comprising Socialist and Catholic trade unions) and a Protestant trade
    union; Federation of Catholic and Protestant Employers Associations; the
    nondenominational Federation of Netherlands Enterprises; and IKV -
    Interchurch Peace Council
Member of:
    AfDB, AG (observer), AsDB, Australia Group, Benelux, BIS, CCC, CE, CERN,
    COCOM, CSCE, EBRD, EC, ECE, ECLAC, EIB, EMS, ESA, ESCAP, FAO, G-10, GATT,
    IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO,
    INMARSAT, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, LORCS, MTCR, NACC, NATO,
    NEA, NSG, OAS (observer), OECD, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO,
    UNTSO, UPU, WCL, WEU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Johan Hendrick MEESMAN; Chancery at 4200 Linnean Avenue NW,
    Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 244-5300; there are Dutch Consulates
    General in Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, New York, and San Francisco
  US:
    Ambassador C. Howard WILKINS, Jr.; Embassy at Lange Voorhout 102, The Hague
    (mailing address PSC 71, Box 1000, APO AE 09715); telephone [31] (70)
    310-9209; FAX [31] (70) 361-4688; there is a US Consulate General in
    Amsterdam
Flag:
    three equal horizontal bands of red (top), white, and blue; similar to the
    flag of Luxembourg, which uses a lighter blue and is longer

:Netherlands Economy

Overview:
    This highly developed and affluent economy is based on private enterprise.
    The government makes its presence felt, however, through many regulations,
    permit requirements, and welfare programs affecting most aspects of economic
    activity. The trade and financial services sector contributes over 50% of
    GDP. Industrial activity provides about 25% of GDP and is led by the
    food-processing, oil-refining, and metalworking industries. The highly
    mechanized agricultural sector employs only 5% of the labor force, but
    provides large surpluses for export and the domestic food-processing
    industry. An unemployment rate of 6.2% and a sizable budget deficit are
    currently the most serious economic problems.
GDP:
    purchasing power equivalent - $249.6 billion, per capita $16,600; real
    growth rate 2.2% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    3.6% (1991 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    6.2% (1991 est.)
Budget:
    revenues $98.7 billion; expenditures $110.8 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $NA (1991)
Exports:
    $131.5 billion (f.o.b., 1990)
  commodities:
    agricultural products, processed foods and tobacco, natural gas, chemicals,
    metal products, textiles, clothing
  partners:
    EC 74.9% (FRG 28.3%, Belgium-Luxembourg 14.2%, France 10.7%, UK 10.2%), US
    4.7% (1988)
Imports:
    $125.9 billion (c.i.f., 1990)
  commodities:
    raw materials and semifinished products, consumer goods, transportation
    equipment, crude oil, food products
  partners:
    EC 63.8% (FRG 26.5%, Belgium-Luxembourg 23.1%, UK 8.1%), US 7.9% (1988)
External debt:
    none
Industrial production:
    growth rate 1.7% (1991 est.); accounts for 25% of GDP
Electricity:
    22,216,000 kW capacity; 63,570 million kWh produced, 4,300 kWh per capita
    (1991)
Industries:
    agroindustries, metal and engineering products, electrical machinery and
    equipment, chemicals, petroleum, fishing, construction, microelectronics
Agriculture:
    accounts for 4% of GDP; animal production predominates; crops - grains,
    potatoes, sugar beets, fruits, vegetables; shortages of grain, fats, and
    oils
Illicit drugs:
    European producer of illicit amphetamines and other synethic drugs
Economic aid:
    donor - ODA and OOF commitments (1970-89), $19.4 billion
Currency:
    Netherlands guilder, gulden, or florin (plural - guilders, gulden, or
    florins); 1 Netherlands guilder, gulden, or florin (f.) = 100 cents

:Netherlands Economy

Exchange rates:
    Netherlands guilders, gulden, or florins (f.) per US$1 - 1.7753 (January
    1992), 1.8697 (1991), 1.8209 (1990), 2.1207 (1989), 1.9766 (1988), 2.0257
    (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Netherlands Communications

Railroads:
    3,037 km track (includes 1,871 km electrified and 1,800 km double track);
    2,871 km 1.435-meter standard gauge operated by Netherlands Railways (NS);
    166 km privately owned
Highways:
    108,360 km total; 92,525 km paved (including 2,185 km of limited access,
    divided highways); 15,835 km gravel, crushed stone
Inland waterways:
    6,340 km, of which 35% is usable by craft of 1,000 metric ton capacity or
    larger
Pipelines:
    crude oil 418 km; petroleum products 965 km; natural gas 10,230 km
Ports:
    maritime - Amsterdam, Delfzijl, Den Helder, Dordrecht, Eemshaven, Ijmuiden,
    Rotterdam, Scheveningen, Terneuzen, Vlissingen; inland - 29 ports
Merchant marine:
    345 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 2,630,962 GRT/3,687,598 DWT; includes
    3 short-sea passenger, 191 cargo, 30 refrigerated cargo, 24 container, 12
    roll-on/roll-off, 2 livestock carrier, 10 multifunction large-load carrier,
    22 oil tanker, 27 chemical tanker, 10 liquefied gas, 2 specialized tanker, 9
    bulk, 3 combination bulk; note - many Dutch-owned ships are also registered
    on the captive Netherlands Antilles register
Civil air:
    98 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    28 total, 28 usable; 19 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 11 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 6 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    highly developed, well maintained, and integrated; extensive redundant
    system of multiconductor cables, supplemented by radio relay links;
    9,418,000 telephones; broadcast stations - 3 (3 relays) AM, 12 (39
    repeaters) FM, 8 (7 repeaters) TV; 5 submarine cables; 1 communication
    satellite earth station operating in INTELSAT (1 Indian Ocean and 2 Atlantic
    Ocean antenna) and EUTELSAT systems; nationwide mobile phone system

:Netherlands Defense Forces

Branches:
    Royal Netherlands Army, Royal Netherlands Navy (including Naval Air Service
    and Marine Corps), Royal Netherlands Air Force, Royal Constabulary
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 4,144,477; 3,649,746 fit for military service; 111,952 reach
    military age (20) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $7.2 billion, 2.9% of GDP (1991)

:Netherlands Antilles Geography

Total area:
    960 km2
Land area:
    960 km2; includes Bonaire, Curacao, Saba, Sint Eustatius, and Sint Maarten
    (Dutch part of the island of Saint Martin)
Comparative area:
    slightly less than 5.5 times the size of Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    364 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive fishing zone:
    12 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    tropical; ameliorated by northeast trade winds
Terrain:
    generally hilly, volcanic interiors
Natural resources:
    phosphates (Curacao only), salt (Bonaire only)
Land use:
    arable land 8%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 0%; forest and
    woodland 0%; other 92%
Environment:
    Curacao and Bonaire are south of Caribbean hurricane belt, so rarely
    threatened; Sint Maarten, Saba, and Sint Eustatius are subject to hurricanes
    from July to October
Note:
    consists of two island groups - Curacao and Bonaire are located off the
    coast of Venezuela, and Sint Maarten, Saba, and Sint Eustatius lie 800 km to
    the north

:Netherlands Antilles People

Population:
    184,325 (July 1992), growth rate 0.3% (1992)
Birth rate:
    18 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    6 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    -9 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    11 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    73 years male, 77 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    2.0 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Netherlands Antillean(s); adjective - Netherlands Antillean
Ethnic divisions:
    mixed African 85%; remainder Carib Indian, European, Latin, and Oriental
Religions:
    predominantly Roman Catholic; Protestant, Jewish, Seventh-Day Adventist
Languages:
    Dutch (official); Papiamento, a Spanish-Portuguese-Dutch-English dialect
    predominates; English widely spoken; Spanish
Literacy:
    94% (male 94%, female 93%) age 15 and over can read and write (1981)
Labor force:
    89,000; government 65%, industry and commerce 28% (1983)
Organized labor:
    60-70% of labor force

:Netherlands Antilles Government

Long-form name:
    none
Digraph:
    political parties are indigenous to each island ***
Type:
    part of the Dutch realm - full autonomy in internal affairs granted in 1954
Capital:
    Willemstad
Administrative divisions:
    none (part of the Dutch realm)
Independence:
    none (part of the Dutch realm)
Constitution:
    29 December 1954, Statute of the Realm of the Netherlands, as amended
Legal system:
    based on Dutch civil law system, with some English common law influence
National holiday:
    Queen's Day, 30 April (1938)
Executive branch:
    Dutch monarch, governor, prime minister, vice prime minister, Council of
    Ministers (cabinet)
Legislative branch:
    legislature (Staten)
Judicial branch:
    Joint High Court of Justice
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Queen BEATRIX Wilhelmina Armgard (since 30 April 1980), represented by
    Governor General Jaime SALEH (since October 1989)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Maria LIBERIA-PETERS (since 17 May 1988, previously served
    from September 1984 to November 1985)
Political parties and leaders:
    political parties are indigenous to each island
  Bonaire:
    Patriotic Union of Bonaire (UPB), Rudy ELLIS; Democratic Party of Bonaire
    (PDB), Franklin CRESTIAN
  Curacao:
    National People's Party (PNP), Maria LIBERIA-PETERS; New Antilles Movement
    (MAN), Domenico Felip Don MARTINA; Workers' Liberation Front (FOL), Wilson
    (Papa) GODETT; Socialist Independent (SI), George HUECK and Nelson MONTE;
    Democratic Party of Curacao (DP), Augustin DIAZ; Nos Patria, Chin BEHILIA
  Saba:
    Windward Islands People's Movement (WIPM Saba), Will JOHNSON; Saba
    Democratic Labor Movement, Vernon HASSELL; Saba Unity Party, Carmen SIMMONDS
  Sint Eustatius:
    Democratic Party of Sint Eustatius (DP-St.E), K. Van PUTTEN; Windward
    Islands People's Movement (WIPM); St. Eustatius Alliance (SEA), Ralph BERKEL
  Sint Maarten:
    Democratic Party of Sint Maarten (DP-St.M), Claude WATHEY; Patriotic
    Movement of Sint Maarten (SPA), Vance JAMES
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18

:Netherlands Antilles Government

Elections:
  Staten:
    last held on 16 March 1990 (next to be held March 1994); results - percent
    of vote by party NA; seats - (22 total) PNP 7, FOL-SI 3, UPB 3, MAN 2,
    DP-St. M 2, DP 1, SPM 1, WIPM 1, DP-St. E 1, Nos Patria 1; note - the
    government of Prime Minister Maria LIBERIA-PETERS is a coalition of several
    parties
Member of:
    CARICOM (observer), ECLAC (associate), ICFTU, INTERPOL, IOC, UNESCO
    (associate), UPU, WCL, WMO, WTO (associate)
Diplomatic representation:
    as an autonomous part of the Netherlands, Netherlands Antillean interests in
    the US are represented by the Netherlands
  US:
    Consul General Sharon P. WILKINSON; Consulate General at Sint Anna Boulevard
    19, Willemstad, Curacao (mailing address P. O. Box 158, Willemstad,
    Curacao); telephone [599] (9) 613066; FAX [599] (9) 616489
Flag:
    white with a horizontal blue stripe in the center superimposed on a vertical
    red band also centered; five white five-pointed stars are arranged in an
    oval pattern in the center of the blue band; the five stars represent the
    five main islands of Bonaire, Curacao, Saba, Sint Eustatius, and Sint
    Maarten

:Netherlands Antilles Economy

Overview:
    Tourism, petroleum refining, and offshore finance are the mainstays of the
    economy. The islands enjoy a high per capita income and a well-developed
    infrastructure as compared with other countries in the region. Unlike many
    Latin American countries, the Netherlands Antilles has avoided large
    international debt. Almost all consumer and capital goods are imported, with
    the US being the major supplier.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $1.4 billion, per capita $7,600; real growth rate
    1.5% (1990 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    5% (1990 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    21% (1991)
Budget:
    revenues $454 million; expenditures $525 million, including capital
    expenditures of $42 million (1989 est.)
Exports:
    $1.1 billion (f.o.b., 1988)
  commodities:
    petroleum products 98%
  partners:
    US 40%, Italy 6%, The Bahamas 5%
Imports:
    $1.4 billion (c.i.f., 1988)
  commodities:
    crude petroleum 64%, food, manufactures
  partners:
    Venezuela 42%, US 18%, Netherlands 6%
External debt:
    $701.2 million (December 1987)
Industrial production:
    growth rate NA%
Electricity:
    125,000 kW capacity; 365 million kWh produced, 1,985 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    tourism (Curacao and Sint Maarten), petroleum refining (Curacao), petroleum
    transshipment facilities (Curacao and Bonaire), light manufacturing
    (Curacao)
Agriculture:
    hampered by poor soils and scarcity of water; chief products - aloes,
    sorghum, peanuts, fresh vegetables, tropical fruit; not self-sufficient in
    food
Economic aid:
    Western (non-US) countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89),
    $513 million
Currency:
    Netherlands Antillean guilder, gulden, or florin (plural - guilders, gulden,
    or florins); 1 Netherlands Antillean guilder, gulden, or florin (NAf.) = 100
    cents
Exchange rates:
    Netherlands Antillean guilders, gulden, or florins (NAf.) per US$1 - 1.79
    (fixed rate since 1989; 1.80 fixed rate 1971-88)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Netherlands Antilles Communications

Highways:
    950 km total; 300 km paved, 650 km gravel and earth
Ports:
    Willemstad, Philipsburg, Kralendijk
Merchant marine:
    80 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 607,010 GRT/695,864 DWT; includes 4
    passenger, 27 cargo, 13 refrigerated cargo, 7 container, 9 roll-on/roll-off,
    11 multifunction large-load carrier, 4 chemical tanker, 3 liquefied gas, 1
    bulk, 1 oil tanker; note - all but a few are foreign owned, mostly in the
    Netherlands
Civil air:
    8 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    7 total, 6 usable; 6 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways over
    3,659 m; 2 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 2 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    generally adequate facilities; extensive interisland radio relay links;
    broadcast stations - 9 AM, 4 FM, 1 TV; 2 submarine cables; 2 Atlantic Ocean
    INTELSAT earth stations

:Netherlands Antilles Defense Forces

Branches:
    Royal Netherlands Navy, Marine Corps, Royal Netherlands Air Force, National
    Guard, Police Force
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49 49,082; 27,656 fit for military service; 1,673 reach military
    age (20) annually
Note:
    defense is responsibility of the Netherlands

:New Caledonia Geography

Total area:
    19,060 km2
Land area:
    18,760 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than New Jersey
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    2,254 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    tropical; modified by southeast trade winds; hot, humid
Terrain:
    coastal plains with interior mountains
Natural resources:
    nickel, chrome, iron, cobalt, manganese, silver, gold, lead, copper
Land use:
    arable land NEGL%; permanent crops NEGL%; meadows and pastures 14%; forest
    and woodland 51%; other 35%
Environment:
    typhoons most frequent from November to March
Note:
    located 1,750 km east of Australia in the South Pacific Ocean

:New Caledonia People

Population:
    174,805 (July 1992), growth rate 1.9% (1992)
Birth rate:
    23 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    5 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    1 migrant/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    17 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    70 years male, 76 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    2.7 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - New Caledonian(s); adjective - New Caledonian
Ethnic divisions:
    Melanesian 42.5%, European 37.1%, Wallisian 8.4%, Polynesian 3.8%,
    Indonesian 3.6%, Vietnamese 1.6%, other 3.0%
Religions:
    Roman Catholic 60%, Protestant 30%, other 10%
Languages:
    French; 28 Melanesian-Polynesian dialects
Literacy:
    91% (male 91%, female 90%) age 15 and over can read and write (1976)
Labor force:
    50,469; foreign workers for plantations and mines from Wallis and Futuna,
    Vanuatu, and French Polynesia (1980 est.)
Organized labor:
    NA

:New Caledonia Government

Long-form name:
    Territory of New Caledonia and Dependencies
Type:
    overseas territory of France since 1956
Capital:
    Noumea
Administrative divisions:
    none (overseas territory of France); there are no first-order administrative
    divisions as defined by the US Government, but there are 3 provinces named
    Iles Loyaute, Nord, and Sud
Independence:
    none (overseas territory of France); note - a referendum on independence
    will be held in 1998, with a review of the issue in 1992
Constitution:
    28 September 1958 (French Constitution)
Legal system:
    the 1988 Matignon Accords grant substantial autonomy to the islands;
    formerly under French law
National holiday:
    Taking of the Bastille, 14 July (1789)
Executive branch:
    French President, high commissioner, Consultative Committee (cabinet)
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Territorial Assembly
Judicial branch:
    Court of Appeal
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Francois MITTERRAND (since 21 May 1981)
  Head of Government:
    High Commissioner and President of the Council of Government Alain
    CHRISTNACHT (since 15 January 1991)
Suffrage:
    universal adult at age 18
Elections:
  Territorial Assembly:
    last held 11 June 1989 (next to be held 1993); results - RPCR 44.5%, FLNKS
    28.5%, FN 7%, CD 5%, UO 4%, other 11%; seats - (54 total) RPCR 27, FLNKS 19,
    FN 3, other 5; note - election boycotted by FULK
  French Senate:
    last held 24 September 1989 (next to be held September 1992); results -
    percent of vote by party NA; seats - (1 total) RPCR 1
  French National Assembly:
    last held 5 and 12 June 1988 (next to be held June 1993); results - RPR
    83.5%, FN 13.5%, other 3%; seats - (2 total) RPCR 2
Member of:
    FZ, ICFTU, SPC, WMO
Diplomatic representation:
    as an overseas territory of France, New Caledonian interests are represented
    in the US by France
Flag:
    the flag of France is used

:New Caledonia Economy

Overview:
    New Caledonia has more than 25% of the world's known nickel resources. In
    recent years the economy has suffered because of depressed international
    demand for nickel, the principal source of export earnings. Only a
    negligible amount of the land is suitable for cultivation, and food accounts
    for about 25% of imports.
GNP:
    exchange rate conversion - $1.0 billion, per capita $6,000 (1991 est.); real
    growth rate 2.4% (1988)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    4.1% (1989)
Unemployment rate:
    16.0% (1989)
Budget:
    revenues $224.0 million; expenditures $211.0 million, including capital
    expenditures of NA (1985)
Exports:
    $671 million (f.o.b., 1989)
  commodities:
    nickel metal 87%, nickel ore
  partners:
    France 52.3%, Japan 15.8%, US 6.4%
Imports:
    $764 million (c.i.f., 1989)
  commodities:
    foods, fuels, minerals, machines, electrical equipment
  partners:
    France 44.0%, US 10%, Australia 9%
External debt:
    $NA
Industrial production:
    growth rate NA%
Electricity:
    400,000 kW capacity; 2,200 million kWh produced, 12,790 kWh per capita
    (1990)
Industries:
    nickel mining
Agriculture:
    large areas devoted to cattle grazing; coffee, corn, wheat, vegetables; 60%
    self-sufficient in beef
Illicit drugs:
    illicit cannabis cultivation is becoming a principal source of income for
    some families
Economic aid:
    Western (non-US) countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89),
    $4,185 million
Currency:
    Comptoirs Francais du Pacifique franc (plural - francs); 1 CFP franc (CFPF)
    = 100 centimes
Exchange rates:
    Comptoirs Francais duPacifique francs (CFPF) per US$1 - 97.81 (January
    1992), 102.57 (1991), 99.00 (1990), 115.99 (1989), 108.30 (1988), 109.27
    (1987); note - linked at the rate of 18.18 to the French franc
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:New Caledonia Communications

Highways:
    6,340 km total; only about 10% paved (1987)
Ports:
    Noumea, Nepoui, Poro, Thio
Civil air:
    1 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    29 total, 27 usable; 1 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 1 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 2 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    32,578 telephones (1987); broadcast stations - 5 AM, 3 FM, 7 TV; 1 Pacific
    Ocean INTELSAT earth station

:New Caledonia Defense Forces

Branches:
    Gendarmerie, Police Force
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 46,388; NA fit for military service
Note:
    defense is the responsibility of France

:New Zealand Geography

Total area:
    268,680 km2
Land area:
    268,670 km2; includes Antipodes Islands, Auckland Islands, Bounty Islands,
    Campbell Island, Chatham Islands, and Kermadec Islands
Comparative area:
    about the size of Colorado
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    15,134 km
Maritime claims:
  Continental shelf:
    edge of continental margin or 200 nm
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    territorial claim in Antarctica (Ross Dependency)
Climate:
    temperate with sharp regional contrasts
Terrain:
    predominately mountainous with some large coastal plains
Natural resources:
    natural gas, iron ore, sand, coal, timber, hydropower, gold, limestone
Land use:
    arable land 2%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 53%; forest and
    woodland 38%; other 7%; includes irrigated 1%
Environment:
    earthquakes are common, though usually not severe

:New Zealand People

Population:
    3,347,369 (July 1992), growth rate 0.7% (1992)
Birth rate:
    16 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    8 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    -2 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    9 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    72 years male, 80 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    2.1 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - New Zealander(s); adjective - New Zealand
Ethnic divisions:
    European 88%, Maori 8.9%, Pacific Islander 2.9%, other 0.2%
Religions:
    Anglican 24%, Presbyterian 18%, Roman Catholic 15%, Methodist 5%, Baptist
    2%, other Protestant 3%, unspecified or none 9% (1986)
Languages:
    English (official), Maori
Literacy:
    99% (male NA%, female NA%) age 15 and over can read and write (1970)
Labor force:
    1,603,500 (June 1991); services 67.4%, manufacturing 19.8%, primary
    production 9.3% (1987)
Organized labor:
    681,000 members; 43% of labor force (1986)

:New Zealand Government

Long-form name:
    none; abbreviated NZ
Type:
    parliamentary democracy
Capital:
    Wellington
Administrative divisions:
    93 counties, 9 districts*, and 3 town districts**; Akaroa, Amuri, Ashburton,
    Bay of Islands, Bruce, Buller, Chatham Islands, Cheviot, Clifton, Clutha,
    Cook, Dannevirke, Egmont, Eketahuna, Ellesmere, Eltham, Eyre, Featherston,
    Franklin, Golden Bay, Great Barrier Island, Grey, Hauraki Plains, Hawera*,
    Hawke's Bay, Heathcote, Hikurangi**, Hobson, Hokianga, Horowhenua, Hurunui,
    Hutt, Inangahua, Inglewood, Kaikoura, Kairanga, Kiwitea, Lake, Mackenzie,
    Malvern, Manaia**, Manawatu, Mangonui, Maniototo, Marlborough, Masterton,
    Matamata, Mount Herbert, Ohinemuri, Opotiki, Oroua, Otamatea, Otorohanga*,
    Oxford, Pahiatua, Paparua, Patea, Piako, Pohangina, Raglan, Rangiora*,
    Rangitikei, Rodney, Rotorua*, Runanga, Saint Kilda, Silverpeaks, Southland,
    Stewart Island, Stratford, Strathallan, Taranaki, Taumarunui, Taupo,
    Tauranga, Thames-Coromandel*, Tuapeka, Vincent, Waiapu, Waiheke, Waihemo,
    Waikato, Waikohu, Waimairi, Waimarino, Waimate, Waimate West, Waimea, Waipa,
    Waipawa*, Waipukurau*, Wairarapa South, Wairewa, Wairoa, Waitaki, Waitomo*,
    Waitotara, Wallace, Wanganui, Waverley**, Westland, Whakatane*, Whangarei,
    Whangaroa, Woodville
Independence:
    26 September 1907 (from UK)
Constitution:
    no formal, written constitution; consists of various documents, including
    certain acts of the UK and New Zealand Parliaments; Constitution Act 1986
    was to have come into force 1 January 1987, but has not been enacted
Dependent areas:
    Cook Islands, Niue, Tokelau
Legal system:
    based on English law, with special land legislation and land courts for
    Maoris; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with reservations
National holiday:
    Waitangi Day (Treaty of Waitangi established British sovereignty), 6
    February (1840)
Executive branch:
    British monarch, governor general, prime minister, deputy prime minister,
    Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    unicameral House of Representatives (commonly called Parliament)
Judicial branch:
    High Court, Court of Appeal
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952), represented by Governor General
    Dame Catherine TIZARD (since 12 December 1990)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister James BOLGER (since 29 October 1990); Deputy Prime Minister
    Donald McKINNON (since 2 November 1990)
Political parties and leaders:
    National Party (NP; government), James BOLGER; New Zealand Labor Party
    (NZLP; opposition), Michael MOORE; NewLabor Party (NLP), Jim ANDERTON;
    Democratic Party, Dick RYAN; New Zealand Liberal Party, Hanmish MACINTYRE
    and Gilbert MYLES; Green Party, no official leader; Mana Motuhake, Martin
    RATA; Socialist Unity Party (SUP; pro-Soviet), Kenneth DOUGLAS; note - the
    New Labor, Democratic, and Mana Motuhake parties formed a coalition in
    September 1991; the Green Party joined the coalition in May 1992

:New Zealand Government

Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  House of Representatives:
    last held on 27 October 1990 (next to be held October 1993); results - NP
    49%, NZLP 35%, Green Party 7%, NLP 5%; seats - (97 total) NP 67, NZLP 29,
    NLP 1
Member of:
    ANZUS (US suspended security obligations to NZ on 11 August 1986), APEC,
    AsDB, Australia Group, C, CCC, CP, COCOM, (cooperating country), EBRD,
    ESCAP, FAO, GATT, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF,
    IMO, INMARSAT, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, IOM (observer), ISO, ITU, LORCS,
    MTCR, OECD, PCA, SPC, SPF, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNIIMOG, UNTSO, UPU,
    WHO, WIPO, WMO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador - Denis Bazely Gordon McLEAN; Chancery at 37 Observatory Circle
    NW, Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 328-4800; there are New Zealand
    Consulates General in Los Angeles and New York
  US:
    Ambassador Della M. NEWMAN; Embassy at 29 Fitzherbert Terrace, Thorndon,
    Wellington (mailing address is P. O. Box 1190, Wellington; PSC 467, Box 1,
    FPO AP 96531-1001); telephone [64] (4) 722-068; FAX [64] (4) 723-537; there
    is a US Consulate General in Auckland
Flag:
    blue with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side quadrant with four red
    five-pointed stars edged in white centered in the outer half of the flag;
    the stars represent the Southern Cross constellation

:New Zealand Economy

Overview:
    Since 1984 the government has been reorienting an agrarian economy dependent
    on a guaranteed British market to an open free market economy that can
    compete on the global scene. The government has hoped that dynamic growth
    would boost real incomes, reduce inflationary pressures, and permit the
    expansion of welfare benefits. The results have been mixed: inflation is
    down from double-digit levels, but growth has been sluggish and
    unemployment, always a highly sensitive issue, has exceeded 10% since May
    1991. In 1988, GDP fell by 1%, in 1989 grew by a moderate 2.4%, and was flat
    in 1990-91.
GDP:
    purchasing power equivalent - $46.2 billion, per capita $14,000; real growth
    rate - 0.4% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    1.0% (1991)
Unemployment rate:
    10.7% (September 1991)
Budget:
    revenues $17.6 billion; expenditures $18.3 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $NA (FY91 est.)
Exports:
    $9.4 billion (f.o.b., FY91)
  commodities:
    wool, lamb, mutton, beef, fruit, fish, cheese, manufactures, chemicals,
    forestry products
  partners:
    EC 18.3%, Japan 17.9%, Australia 17.5%, US 13.5%, China 3.6%, South Korea
    3.1%
Imports:
    $8.4 billion (f.o.b., FY91)
  commodities:
    petroleum, consumer goods, motor vehicles, industrial equipment
  partners:
    Australia 19.7%, Japan 16.9%, EC 16.9%, US 15.3%, Taiwan 3.0%
External debt:
    $17.4 billion (1989)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 1.9% (1990); accounts for about 20% of GDP
Electricity:
    7,800,000 kW capacity; 28,000 million kWh produced, 8,500 kWh per capita
    (1990)
Industries:
    food processing, wood and paper products, textiles, machinery,
    transportation equipment, banking and insurance, tourism, mining
Agriculture:
    accounts for about 9% of GDP and 10% of the work force; livestock
    predominates - wool, meat, dairy products all export earners; crops - wheat,
    barley, potatoes, pulses, fruits, and vegetables; surplus producer of farm
    products; fish catch reached a record 503,000 metric tons in 1988
Economic aid:
    donor - ODA and OOF commitments (1970-89), $526 million
Currency:
    New Zealand dollar (plural - dollars); 1 New Zealand dollar (NZ$) = 100
    cents
Exchange rates:
    New Zealand dollars (NZ$) per US$1 - 1.8245 (March 1992), 1.7265 (1991),
    1.6750 (1990), 1.6711 (1989), 1.5244 (1988), 1.6886 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    1 July - 30 June

:New Zealand Communications

Railroads:
    4,716 km total; all 1.067-meter gauge; 274 km double track; 113 km
    electrified; over 99% government owned
Highways:
    92,648 km total; 49,547 km paved, 43,101 km gravel or crushed stone
Inland waterways:
    1,609 km; of little importance to transportation
Pipelines:
    natural gas 1,000 km; petroleum products 160 km; condensate 150 km
Ports:
    Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin, Wellington, Tauranga
Merchant marine:
    18 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 182,206 GRT/246,446 DWT; includes 2
    cargo, 5 roll-on/roll-off, 1 railcar carrier, 4 oil tanker, 1 liquefied gas,
    5 bulk
Civil air:
    about 40 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    118 total, 118 usable; 34 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 2 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 43 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    excellent international and domestic systems; 2,110,000 telephones;
    broadcast stations - 64 AM, 2 FM, 14 TV; submarine cables extend to
    Australia and Fiji; 2 Pacific Ocean INTELSAT earth stations

:New Zealand Defense Forces

Branches:
    New Zealand Army, Royal New Zealand Navy, Royal New Zealand Air Force
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 874,703; 739,923 fit for military service; 30,297 reach
    military age (20) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $792 million, 2% of GDP (FY92)

:Nicaragua Geography

Total area:
    129,494 km2
Land area:
    120,254 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than New York State
Land boundaries:
    1,231 km total; Costa Rica 309 km, Honduras 922 km
Coastline:
    910 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    25 nm security zone (status of claim uncertain)
  Continental shelf:
    not specified
  Territorial sea:
    200 nm
Disputes:
    territorial disputes with Colombia over the Archipelago de San Andres y
    Providencia and Quita Sueno Bank; unresolved maritime boundary in Golfo de
    Fonseca
Climate:
    tropical in lowlands, cooler in highlands
Terrain:
    extensive Atlantic coastal plains rising to central interior mountains;
    narrow Pacific coastal plain interrupted by volcanoes
Natural resources:
    gold, silver, copper, tungsten, lead, zinc, timber, fish
Land use:
    arable land 9%; permanent crops 1%; meadows and pastures 43%; forest and
    woodland 35%; other 12%; including irrigated 1%
Environment:
    subject to destructive earthquakes, volcanoes, landslides, and occasional
    severe hurricanes; deforestation; soil erosion; water pollution

:Nicaragua People

Population:
    3,878,150 (July 1992), growth rate 2.8% (1992)
Birth rate:
    37 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    7 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    -1 migrant/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    57 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    60 years male, 66 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    4.6 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Nicaraguan(s); adjective - Nicaraguan
Ethnic divisions:
    mestizo 69%, white 17%, black 9%, Indian 5%
Religions:
    Roman Catholic 95%, Protestant 5%
Languages:
    Spanish (official); English- and Indian-speaking minorities on Atlantic
    coast
Literacy:
    57% (male 57%, female 57%) age 15 and over can read and write (1971)
Labor force:
    1,086,000; service 43%, agriculture 44%, industry 13% (1986)
Organized labor:
    35% of labor force

:Nicaragua Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Nicaragua
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Managua
Administrative divisions:
    9 administrative regions encompassing 17 departments (departamentos,
    singular - departamento); Boaco, Carazo, Chinandega, Chontales, Esteli,
    Granada, Jinotega, Leon, Madriz, Managua, Masaya, Matagalpa, North Atlantic
    Coast Autonomous Zone (RAAN), Nueva Segovia, Rio San Juan, Rivas, South
    Atlantic Coast Autonomous Zone (RAAS)
Independence:
    15 September 1821 (from Spain)
Constitution:
    January 1987
Legal system:
    civil law system; Supreme Court may review administrative acts
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 15 September (1821)
Executive branch:
    president, vice president, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    National Assembly (Asamblea Nacional)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court (Corte Suprema) and municipal courts
Leaders:
  Chief of State and Head of Government:
    President Violeta Barrios de CHAMORRO (since 25 April 1990); Vice President
    Virgilio GODOY (since 25 April 1990)
Political parties and leaders:
  ruling coalition:
    National Opposition Union (UNO) is a 14-party alliance - National
    Conservative Party (PNC), Silviano MATAMOROS; Conservative Popular Alliance
    Party (PAPC), Myriam ARGUELLO; National Conservative Action Party (PANC),
    Hernaldo ZUNIGA; National Democratic Confidence Party (PDCN), Augustin
    JARQUIN; Independent Liberal Party (PLI), Wilfredo NAVARRO; Neo-Liberal
    Party (PALI), Andres ZUNIGA; Liberal Constitutionalist Party (PLC), Jose
    Ernesto SOMARRIBA; National Action Party (PAN), Eduardo RIVAS; Nicaraguan
    Socialist Party (PSN), Gustavo TABLADA; Communist Party of Nicaragua
    (PCdeN), Eli ALTIMIRANO; Popular Social Christian Party (PPSC), Luis
    Humberto GUZMAN; Nicaraguan Democratic Movement (MDN), Roberto URROZ; Social
    Democratic Party (PSD), Guillermo POTOY; Central American Integrationist
    Party (PIAC), Alejandro PEREZ
  opposition parties:
    Sandinista National Liberation Front (FSLN), Daniel ORTEGA; Central American
    Unionist Party (PUCA), Blanca ROJAS; Democratic Conservative Party of
    Nicaragua (PCDN), Jose BRENES; Liberal Party of National Unity (PLUIN),
    Eduardo CORONADO; Movement of Revolutionary Unity (MUR), Francisco SAMPER;
    Social Christian Party (PSC), Erick RAMIREZ; Revolutionary Workers' Party
    (PRT), Bonifacio MIRANDA; Social Conservative Party (PSOC), Fernando
    AGUERRO; Popular Action Movement - Marxist-Leninist (MAP-ML), Isidro TELLEZ;
    Popular Social Christian Party (PPSC), Mauricio DIAZ
Suffrage:
    universal at age 16

:Nicaragua Government

Elections:
  President:
    last held on 25 February 1990 (next to be held February 1996); results -
    Violeta Barrios de CHAMORRO (UNO) 54.7%, Daniel ORTEGA Saavedra (FSLN)
    40.8%, other 4.5%
  National Assembly:
    last held on 25 February 1990 (next to be held February 1996); results - UNO
    53.9%, FSLN 40.8%, PSC 1.6%, MUR 1.0%; seats - (92 total) UNO 51, FSLN 39,
    PSC 1, MUR 1
Communists:
    15,000-20,000
Other political or pressure groups:
    National Workers Front (FNT) is a Sandinista umbrella group of eight labor
    unions: Sandinista Workers' Central (CST), Farm Workers Association (ATC),
    Health Workers Federation (FETASALUD), National Union of Employees (UNE),
    National Association of Educators of Nicaragua (ANDEN), Union of Journalists
    of Nicaragua (UPN), Heroes and Martyrs Confederation of Professional
    Associations (CONAPRO), and the National Union of Farmers and Ranchers
    (UNAG); Permanent Congress of Workers (CPT) is an umbrella group of four
    non-Sandinista labor unions: Confederation of Labor Unification (CUS),
    Autonomous Nicaraguan Workers' Central (CTN-A), Independent General
    Confederation of Labor (CGT-I), and Labor Action and Unity Central (CAUS);
    Nicaraguan Workers' Central (CTN) is an independent labor union; Superior
    Council of Private Enterprise (COSEP) is a confederation of business groups
Member of:
    BCIE, CACM, ECLAC, FAO, G-77, GATT, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, IDA,
    IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, IOM, ITU, LAES, LORCS,
    NAM, OAS, OPANAL, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WFTU,
    WHO, WIPO, WMO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Ernesto PALAZIO; Chancery at 1627 New Hampshire Avenue NW,
    Washington, DC 20009; telephone (202) 939-6570
  US:
    Ambassador Harry W. SHLAUDEMAN; Embassy at Kilometer 4.5 Carretera Sur.,
    Managua (mailing address is APO AA 34021); telephone [505] (2) 666010 or
    666013, 666015 through 18, 666026, 666027, 666032 through 34; FAX [505] (2)
    666046
Flag:
    three equal horizontal bands of blue (top), white, and blue with the
    national coat of arms centered in the white band; the coat of arms features
    a triangle encircled by the words REPUBLICA DE NICARAGUA on the top and
    AMERICA CENTRAL on the bottom; similar to the flag of El Salvador, which
    features a round emblem encircled by the words REPUBLICA DE EL SALVADOR EN
    LA AMERICA CENTRAL centered in the white band; also similar to the flag of
    Honduras, which has five blue stars arranged in an X pattern centered in the
    white band

:Nicaragua Economy

Overview:
    Government control of the economy historically has been extensive, although
    the CHAMORRO government has pledged to greatly reduce intervention. Four
    private banks have been licensed, and the government has liberalized foreign
    trade and abolished price controls on most goods. Over 50% of the
    agricultural and industrial firms remain state owned. Sandinista economic
    policies and the war had produced a severe economic crisis. The foundation
    of the economy continues to be the export of agricultural commodities,
    largely coffee and cotton. Farm production fell by roughly 7% in 1989 and 4%
    in 1990, and remained about even in 1991. The agricultural sector employs
    44% of the work force and accounts for 15% of GDP and 80% of export
    earnings. Industry, which employs 13% of the work force and contributes
    about 25% to GDP, showed a drop of 7% in 1989, fell slightly in 1990, and
    remained flat in 1991; output still is below pre-1979 levels. External debt
    is one of the highest in the world on a per capita basis. In 1991 the
    inflation rate was 766%, down sharply from the 13,490% of 1990.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $1.6 billion, per capita $425; real growth rate
    -1.0% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    766% (1991)
Unemployment rate:
    13%; underemployment 50% (1991)
Budget:
    revenues $347 million; expenditures $499 million, including capital
    expenditures of $NA million (1991)
Exports:
    $342 million (f.o.b., 1991 est.)
  commodities:
    coffee, cotton, sugar, bananas, seafood, meat, chemicals
  partners:
    OECD 75%, USSR and Eastern Europe 15%, other 10%
Imports:
    $738 million (c.i.f., 1991 est.)
  commodities:
    petroleum, food, chemicals, machinery, clothing
  partners:
    Latin America 30%, US 25%, EC 20%, USSR and Eastern Europe 10%, other 15%
    (1990 est.)
External debt:
    $10 billion (December 1991)
Industrial production:
    growth rate NA; accounts for about 25% of GDP
Electricity:
    423,000 kW capacity; 1,409 million kWh produced, 376 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    food processing, chemicals, metal products, textiles, clothing, petroleum
    refining and distribution, beverages, footwear
Agriculture:
    accounts for 15% of GDP and 44% of work force; cash crops - coffee, bananas,
    sugarcane, cotton; food crops - rice, corn, cassava, citrus fruit, beans;
    variety of animal products - beef, veal, pork, poultry, dairy; normally
    self-sufficient in food
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $294 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $1,381 million;
    Communist countries (1970-89), $3.5 billion
Currency:
    cordoba (plural - cordobas); 1 cordoba (C$) = 100 centavos

:Nicaragua Economy

Exchange rates:
    cordobas (C$) per US$1 - 25,000,000 (March 1992), 21,354,000 (1991), 15,655
    (1989), 270 (1988), 102.60 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Nicaragua Communications

Railroads:
    373 km 1.067-meter narrow gauge, government owned; majority of system not
    operating; 3 km 1.435-meter gauge line at Puerto Cabezas (does not connect
    with mainline)
Highways:
    25,930 km total; 4,000 km paved, 2,170 km gravel or crushed stone, 5,425 km
    earth or graded earth, 14,335 km unimproved; Pan-American highway 368.5 km
Inland waterways:
    2,220 km, including 2 large lakes
Pipelines:
    crude oil 56 km
Ports:
    Corinto, El Bluff, Puerto Cabezas, Puerto Sandino, Rama
Merchant marine:
    2 cargo ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 2,161 GRT/2,500 DWT
Civil air:
    9 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    228 total, 155 usable; 11 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 2 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 12 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    low-capacity radio relay and wire system being expanded; connection into
    Central American Microwave System; 60,000 telephones; broadcast stations -
    45 AM, no FM, 7 TV, 3 shortwave; earth stations - 1 Intersputnik and 1
    Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT

:Nicaragua Defense Forces

Branches:
    Ground Forces, Navy, Air Force
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 878,066; 541,090 fit for military service; 42,997 reach
    military age (18) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $70 million, 3.8% of GDP (1991 budget)

:Niger Geography

Total area:
    1,267,000 km2
Land area:
    1,266,700 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly less than twice the size of Texas
Land boundaries:
    5,697 km total; Algeria 956 km, Benin 266 km, Burkina 628 km, Chad 1,175 km,
    Libya 354 km, Mali 821 km, Nigeria 1,497 km
Coastline:
    none - landlocked
Maritime claims:
    none - landlocked
Disputes:
    Libya claims about 19,400 km2 in northern Niger; demarcation of
    international boundaries in Lake Chad, the lack of which has led to border
    incidents in the past, is completed and awaiting ratification by Cameroon,
    Chad, Niger, and Nigeria; Burkina and Mali are proceeding with boundary
    demarcation, including the tripoint with Niger
Climate:
    desert; mostly hot, dry, dusty; tropical in extreme south
Terrain:
    predominately desert plains and sand dunes; flat to rolling plains in south;
    hills in north
Natural resources:
    uranium, coal, iron ore, tin, phosphates
Land use:
    arable land 3%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 7%; forest and
    woodland 2%; other 88%; includes irrigated NEGL%
Environment:
    recurrent drought and desertification severely affecting marginal
    agricultural activities; overgrazing; soil erosion
Note:
    landlocked

:Niger People

Population:
    8,052,945 (July 1992), growth rate 3.5% (1992)
Birth rate:
    58 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    23 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    115 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    42 years male, 45 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    7.4 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Nigerien(s); adjective - Nigerien
Ethnic divisions:
    Hausa 56%; Djerma 22%; Fula 8.5%; Tuareg 8%; Beri Beri (Kanouri) 4.3%; Arab,
    Toubou, and Gourmantche 1.2%; about 4,000 French expatriates
Religions:
    Muslim 80%, remainder indigenous beliefs and Christians
Languages:
    French (official); Hausa, Djerma
Literacy:
    28% (male 40%, female 17%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    2,500,000 wage earners (1982); agriculture 90%, industry and commerce 6%,
    government 4%; 51% of population of working age (1985)
Organized labor:
    negligible

:Niger Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Niger
Type:
    as of November 1991, transition government appointed by national reform
    conference; scheduled to turn over power to democratically elected
    government in January 1993
Capital:
    Niamey
Administrative divisions:
    7 departments (departements, singular - departement); Agadez, Diffa, Dosso,
    Maradi, Niamey, Tahoua, Zinder
Independence:
    3 August 1960 (from France)
Constitution:
    December 1989 constitution revised November 1991 by National Democratic
    Reform Conference
Legal system:
    based on French civil law system and customary law; has not accepted
    compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
National holiday:
    Republic Day, 18 December (1958)
Executive branch:
    president (ceremonial), prime minister (interim), Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    National Assembly
Judicial branch:
    State Court (Cour d'Etat), Court of Appeal (Cour d'Apel)
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Brig. Gen. Ali SAIBOU (since 14 November 1987); ceremonial post
    since national conference (1991)
  Head of Government:
    Interim Prime Minister Amadou CHEIFFOU (since November 1991)
Political parties and leaders:
    National Movement of the Development Society (MNSD-NASSARA), Tanda MAMADOU;
    Niger Progressive Party - African Democratic Rally (PPN-RDA), Harou KOUKA;
    Union of Popular Forces for Democracy and Progress (UDFP-SAWABA), Djibo
    BAKARY; Niger Democratic Union (UDN-SAWABA), Mamoudou PASCAL; Union of
    Patriots, Democrats, and Progressives (UPDP), Andre SALIFOU; Niger Social
    Democrat Party (PSDN-ALHERI), Mallam Adji WAZIRI; Niger Party for Democracy
    and Socialism (PNDS-TARAYA), Issoufou MAHAMADOU; Democratic and Social
    Convention (CDS-RAHAMA), Mahamane OUSMANE; Union for Democracy and Progress
    (UDP), Bello TCHIOUSSO; Union for Democracy and Social Progress
    (UDPS-AMANA), Akoli DAOUEL; Masses Union for Democratic Action (UMAD-AIKI),
    Belko GARBA; Worker's Liberation Party (PLT), Idi Ango OUMAROU; Convention
    for Social Rehabilitation (CRS), Abdoul Karim SEYNI; Popular Movement for
    Democracy in Niger (MPDN), Abdou SANDA; Popular Front for National
    Liberation (FPLN), Diallo SABO; Republican Party for Freedom and Progress in
    Niger (PRLPN), Alka ALMOU; other parties forming
Suffrage:
    universal adult at age 18
Elections:
  President:
    President Ali SAIBOU has been in office since December 1989, but the
    presidency is now a largely ceremonial position

:Niger Government

  National Assembly:
    last held 10 December 1989 (next to be held NA); results - MNSD was the only
    party; seats - (150 total) MNSD 150 (indirectly elected); note - Niger held
    a national conference from July to November 1991 to decide upon a
    transitional government and an agenda for multiparty elections
Member of:
    ACCT, ACP, AfDB, CCC, CEAO, ECA, ECOWAS, Entente, FAO, FZ, G-77, GATT, IAEA,
    IBRD, ICAO, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, ITU,
    LORCS, NAM, OAU, OIC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WADB, WCL, WHO, WIPO,
    WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Moumouni Adamou DJERMAKOYE; Chancery at 2204 R Street NW,
    Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 483-4224 through 4227
  US:
    Ambassador Jennifer C. WARD; Embassy at Avenue des Ambassades, Niamey
    (mailing address is B. P. 11201, Niamey); telephone [227] 72-26-61 through
    64
Flag:
    three equal horizontal bands of orange (top), white, and green with a small
    orange disk (representing the sun) centered in the white band; similar to
    the flag of India, which has a blue spoked wheel centered in the white band

:Niger Economy

Overview:
    About 90% of the population is engaged in farming and stock raising,
    activities that generate almost half the national income. The economy also
    depends heavily on exploitation of large uranium deposits. Uranium
    production grew rapidly in the mid-1970s, but tapered off in the early 1980s
    when world prices declined. France is a major customer, while Germany,
    Japan, and Spain also make regular purchases. The depressed demand for
    uranium has contributed to an overall sluggishness in the economy, a severe
    trade imbalance, and a mounting external debt.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $2.4 billion, per capita $300; real growth rate
    -3.4% (1991)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    NA
Unemployment rate:
    NA%
Budget:
    revenues $220 million; expenditures $446 million, including capital
    expenditures of $190 million (FY89 est.)
Exports:
    $320 million (f.o.b., 1990)
  commodities:
    uranium 75%, livestock products, cowpeas, onions
  partners:
    France 65%, Nigeria 11%, Ivory Coast, Italy
Imports:
    $439 million (c.i.f., 1990)
  commodities:
    petroleum products, primary materials, machinery, vehicles and parts,
    electronic equipment, pharmaceuticals, chemical products, cereals,
    foodstuffs
  partners:
    France 32%, Ivory Coast 11%, Germany 5%, Italy 4%, Nigeria 4%
External debt:
    $1.8 billion (December 1990 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 0% (1989); accounts for 18% of GDP
Electricity:
    105,000 kW capacity; 230 million kWh produced, 30 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    cement, brick, textiles, food processing, chemicals, slaughterhouses, and a
    few other small light industries; uranium production began in 1971
Agriculture:
    accounts for roughly 40% of GDP and 90% of labor force; cash crops -
    cowpeas, cotton, peanuts; food crops - millet, sorghum, cassava, rice;
    livestock - cattle, sheep, goats; self-sufficient in food except in drought
    years
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $380 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $3,165 million; OPEC
    bilateral aid (1979-89), $504 million; Communist countries (1970-89), $61
    million
Currency:
    Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (plural - francs); 1 CFA franc (CFAF)
    = 100 centimes
Exchange rates:
    Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (CFAF) per US$1 - 269.01 (January
    1992), 282.11 (1991), 272.26 (1990), 319.01 (1989), 297.85 (1988), 300.54
    (1987)

:Niger Economy

Fiscal year:
    1 October - 30 September

:Niger Communications

Highways:
    39,970 km total; 3,170 km bituminous, 10,330 km gravel and laterite, 3,470
    km earthen, 23,000 km tracks
Inland waterways:
    Niger River is navigable 300 km from Niamey to Gaya on the Benin frontier
    from mid-December through March
Civil air:
    2 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    29 total, 27 usable; 8 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 2 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 13 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    small system of wire, radiocommunications, and radio relay links
    concentrated in southwestern area; 14,260 telephones; broadcast stations -
    15 AM, 5 FM, 18 TV; satellite earth stations - 1 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT, 1
    Indian Ocean INTELSAT, and 3 domestic, with 1 planned

:Niger Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Air Force, Gendarmerie, Republican National Guard, National police
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 1,724,293; 928,177 fit for military service; 83,528 reach
    military age (18) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $27 million, 1.3% of GDP (1989)

:Nigeria Geography

Total area:
    923,770 km2
Land area:
    910,770 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly more than twice the size of California
Land boundaries:
    4,047 km total; Benin 773 km, Cameroon 1,690 km, Chad 87 km, Niger 1,497 km
Coastline:
    853 km
Maritime claims:
  Continental shelf:
    200 m (depth) or to depth of exploitation
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    30 nm
Disputes:
    demarcation of international boundaries in Lake Chad, the lack of which has
    led to border incidents in the past, is completed and awaiting ratification
    by Cameroon, Chad, Niger, and Nigeria; boundary commission created with
    Cameroon to discuss unresolved land and maritime boundaries - has not yet
    convened
Climate:
    varies - equatorial in south, tropical in center, arid in north
Terrain:
    southern lowlands merge into central hills and plateaus; mountains in
    southeast, plains in north
Natural resources:
    crude oil, tin, columbite, iron ore, coal, limestone, lead, zinc, natural
    gas
Land use:
    arable land 31%; permanent crops 3%; meadows and pastures 23%; forest and
    woodland 15%; other 28%; includes irrigated NEGL%
Environment:
    recent droughts in north severely affecting marginal agricultural
    activities; desertification; soil degradation, rapid deforestation

:Nigeria People

Population:
    126,274,589 (July 1992), growth rate 3.0% (1992); note - a new population
    figure of 88.5 million is in the process of being incorporated into revised
    Census Bureau figures (April 1992)
Birth rate:
    46 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    16 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    NEGL migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    110 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    48 years male, 50 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    6.5 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Nigerian(s); adjective - Nigerian
Ethnic divisions:
    more than 250 tribal groups; Hausa and Fulani of the north, Yoruba of the
    southwest, and Ibos of the southeast make up 65% of the population; about
    27,000 non-Africans
Religions:
    Muslim 50%, Christian 40%, indigenous beliefs 10%
Languages:
    English (official); Hausa, Yoruba, Ibo, Fulani, and several other languages
    also widely used
Literacy:
    51% (male 62%, female 40%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    42,844,000; agriculture 54%, industry, commerce, and services 19%,
    government 15%; 49% of population of working age (1985)
Organized labor:
    3,520,000 wage earners belong to 42 recognized trade unions, which come
    under a single national labor federation - the Nigerian Labor Congress (NLC)

:Nigeria Government

Long-form name:
    Federal Republic of Nigeria
Type:
    military government since 31 December 1983
Capital:
    Abuja; note - on 12 December 1991 the capital was officially moved from
    Lagos to Abuja; many government offices remain in Lagos pending completion
    of facilities in Abuja
Administrative divisions:
    30 states and 1 territory*; Abia, Abuja Capital Territory*, Adamawa, Akwa
    Ibom, Anambra, Bauchi, Benue, Borno, Cross River, Delta, Edo, Enugu, Imo,
    Jigawa, Kaduna, Kano, Katsina, Kebbi, Kogi, Kwara, Lagos, Niger, Ogun, Ondo,
    Osun, Oyo, Plateau, Rivers, Sokoto, Taraba, Yobe
Independence:
    1 October 1960 (from UK)
Constitution:
    1 October 1979, amended 9 February 1984, revised 1989
Legal system:
    based on English common law, Islamic law, and tribal law
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 1 October (1960)
Executive branch:
    president of the Armed Forces Ruling Council, Armed Forces Ruling Council,
    National Council of State, Council of Ministers (cabinet)
Legislative branch:
    National Assembly was dissolved after the military coup of 31 December 1983
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court, Federal Court of Appeal
Leaders:
  Chief of State and Head of Government:
    President and Commander in Chief of Armed Forces Gen. Ibrahim BABANGIDA
    (since 27 August 1985)
Political parties and leaders:
    two political parties established by the government in 1989 - Social
    Democratic Party (SDP) and National Republican Convention (NRC)
Suffrage:
    universal at age 21
Elections:
  President:
    first presidential elections since the 31 December 1983 coup scheduled for
    late 1992
  National Assembly:
    first elections since it was dissolved after the 31 December 1983 coup
    scheduled for 4 July 1992
Communists:
    the pro-Communist underground consists of a small fraction of the Nigerian
    left; leftist leaders are prominent in the country's central labor
    organization but have little influence on the government
Member of:
    ACP, AfDB, C, CCC, ECA, ECOWAS, FAO, G-15, G-19, G-24, G-77, GATT, IAEA,
    IBRD, ICAO, ICC, IDA, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMO, IMF, INMARSAT, INTELSAT,
    INTERPOL, IOC, ISO, ITU, LORCS, NAM, OAU, OIC, OPEC, PCA, UN, UNCTAD,
    UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIIMOG, UPU, WCL, WHO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Zubair Mahmud KAZAURE; Chancery at 2201 M Street NW, Washington,
    DC 20037; telephone (202) 822-1500; there is a Nigerian Consulate General in
    New York

:Nigeria Government

  US:
    Ambassador Lannon WALKER; Embassy at 2 Eleke Crescent, Lagos (mailing
    address is P. O. Box 554, Lagos); telephone [234] (1) 610097; FAX [234] (1)
    610257; there is a US Consulate General in Kaduna; note - the US Government
    has requested Nigerian Government permission to open an Embassy Branch
    Office in Abuja; the US Embassy will remain in Lagos until a later date,
    when the Branch Office in Abuja will become the Embassy and the Embassy in
    Lagos will become a Consulate General
Flag:
    three equal vertical bands of green (hoist side), white, and green

:Nigeria Economy

Overview:
    Although Nigeria is Africa's leading oil-producing country, it remains poor
    with a $250 per capita GDP. In 1991 massive government spending, much of it
    to help ensure a smooth transition to civilian rule, ballooned the budget
    deficit and caused inflation and interest rates to rise. The lack of fiscal
    discipline forced the IMF to declare Nigeria not in compliance with an
    18-month standby facility started in January 1991. Lagos has set ambitious
    targets for expanding oil production capacity and is offering foreign
    companies more attractive investment incentives. Government efforts to
    reduce Nigeria's dependence on oil exports and to sustain noninflationary
    growth, however, have fallen short because of inadequate new investment
    funds and endemic corruption. Living standards continue to deteriorate from
    the higher level of the early 1980s oil boom.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $30 billion, per capita $250; real growth rate
    5.2% (1990 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    40% (1991)
Unemployment rate:
    NA%
Budget:
    revenues $10 billion; expenditures $10 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $NA (1992 est.)
Exports:
    $13.6 billion (f.o.b., 1990)
  commodities:
    oil 95%, cocoa, rubber
  partners:
    EC 51%, US 32%
Imports:
    $6.9 billion (c.i.f., 1990)
  commodities:
    consumer goods, capital equipment, chemicals, raw materials
  partners:
    EC, US
External debt:
    $32 billion (December 1991 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 7.2% (1990); accounts for 8.5% of GDP
Electricity:
    4,740,000 kW capacity; 11,280 million kWh produced, 90 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    crude oil and mining - coal, tin, columbite; primary processing industries -
    palm oil, peanut, cotton, rubber, wood, hides and skins; manufacturing
    industries - textiles, cement, building materials, food products, footwear,
    chemical, printing, ceramics, steel
Agriculture:
    accounts for 32% of GDP and half of labor force; inefficient small-scale
    farming dominates; once a large net exporter of food and now an importer;
    cash crops - cocoa, peanuts, palm oil, rubber; food crops - corn, rice,
    sorghum, millet, cassava, yams; livestock - cattle, sheep, goats, pigs;
    fishing and forestry resources extensively exploited
Illicit drugs:
    illicit heroin and some cocaine trafficking; marijuana cultivation for
    domestic consumption and export; major transit country for heroin en route
    from southeast and southwest Asia via Africa to Western Europe and the US;
    growing transit route for cocaine from South America via West Africa to
    Western Europe and the US

:Nigeria Economy

Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $705 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $3.0 billion;
    Communist countries (1970-89), $2.2 billion
Currency:
    naira (plural - naira); 1 naira (N) = 100 kobo
Exchange rates:
    naira (N) per US$1 - 10.226 (February 1992), 9.909 (1991), 8.038 (1990),
    7.3647 (1989), 4.5370 (1988), 4.0160 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Nigeria Communications

Railroads:
    3,505 km 1.067-meter gauge
Highways:
    107,990 km total 30,019 km paved (mostly bituminous-surface treatment);
    25,411 km laterite, gravel, crushed stone, improved earth; 52,560 km
    unimproved
Inland waterways:
    8,575 km consisting of Niger and Benue Rivers and smaller rivers and creeks
Pipelines:
    crude oil 2,042 km; natural gas 500 km; petroleum products 3,000 km
Ports:
    Lagos, Port Harcourt, Calabar, Warri, Onne, Sapele
Merchant marine:
    28 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 418,046 GRT/664,949 DWT; includes 17
    cargo, 1 refrigerated cargo, 1 roll-on/roll-off, 7 petroleum tanker, 1
    chemical tanker, 1 bulk
Civil air:
    57 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    76 total, 64 usable; 33 with permanent-surface runways; 1 with runways over
    3,659 m; 15 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 22 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    above-average system limited by poor maintenance; major expansion in
    progress; radio relay and cable routes; broadcast stations - 35 AM, 17 FM,
    28 TV; satellite earth stations - 2 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT, 1 Indian Ocean
    INTELSAT, 20 domestic stations; 1 coaxial submarine cable

:Nigeria Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Navy, Air Force, paramilitary Police Force
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 28,778,532; 16,451,582 fit for military service; 1,256,440
    reach military age (18) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $300 million, 1% of GDP (1990 est.)
\

:Niue Geography

Total area:
    260 km2
Land area:
    260 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly less than 1.5 times the size of Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    64 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    tropical; modified by southeast trade winds
Terrain:
    steep limestone cliffs along coast, central plateau
Natural resources:
    fish, arable land
Land use:
    arable land 61%; permanent crops 4%; meadows and pastures 4%; forest and
    woodland 19%; other 12%
Environment:
    subject to typhoons
Note:
    one of world's largest coral islands; located about 460 km east of Tonga

:Niue People

Population:
    1,751 (July 1992), growth rate - 6.4% (1992)
Birth rate:
    NA births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    NA deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    NA migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    NA deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    NA years male, NA years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    NA children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Niuean(s); adjective - Niuean
Ethnic divisions:
    Polynesian, with some 200 Europeans, Samoans, and Tongans
Religions:
    Ekalesia Nieue (Niuean Church) - a Protestant church closely related to the
    London Missionary Society 75%, Mormon 10%, Roman Catholic, Jehovah's
    Witnesses, Seventh-Day Adventist 5%
Languages:
    Polynesian tongue closely related to Tongan and Samoan; English
Literacy:
    NA% (male NA%, female NA%) but compulsory education age 5 to 14
Labor force:
    1,000 (1981 est.); most work on family plantations; paid work exists only in
    government service, small industry, and the Niue Development Board
Organized labor:
    NA

:Niue Government

Long-form name:
    none
Type:
    self-governing territory in free association with New Zealand; Niue fully
    responsible for internal affairs; New Zealand retains responsibility for
    external affairs
Capital:
    Alofi
Administrative divisions:
    none
Independence:
    became a self-governing territory in free association with New Zealand on 19
    October 1974
Constitution:
    19 October 1974 (Niue Constitution Act)
Legal system:
    English common law
National holiday:
    Waitangi Day (Treaty of Waitangi established British sovereignty), 6
    February (1840)
Executive branch:
    British monarch, premier, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    Legislative Assembly
Judicial branch:
    Appeal Court of New Zealand, High Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952), represented by New Zealand
    Representative John SPRINGFORD (since 1974)
  Head of Government:
    Premier Sir Robert R. REX (since October 1974)
Political parties and leaders:
    Niue Island Party (NIP), Young VIVIAN
Suffrage:
    universal adult at age 18
Elections:
  Legislative Assembly:
    last held on 8 April 1990 (next to be held March 1993); results - percent of
    vote NA; seats - (20 total, 6 elected) NIP 1, independents 5
Member of:
    ESCAP (associate), SPC, SPF
Diplomatic representation:
    none (self-governing territory in free association with New Zealand)
Flag:
    yellow with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side quadrant; the flag of
    the UK bears five yellow five-pointed stars - a large one on a blue disk in
    the center and a smaller one on each arm of the bold red cross

:Niue Economy

Overview:
    The economy is heavily dependent on aid from New Zealand. Government
    expenditures regularly exceed revenues, with the shortfall made up by grants
    from New Zealand - the grants are used to pay wages to public employees. The
    agricultural sector consists mainly of subsistence gardening, although some
    cash crops are grown for export. Industry consists primarily of small
    factories to process passion fruit, lime oil, honey, and coconut cream. The
    sale of postage stamps to foreign collectors is an important source of
    revenue. The island in recent years has suffered a serious loss of
    population because of migration of Niueans to New Zealand.
GNP:
    exchange rate conversion - $2.1 million, per capita $1,000; real growth rate
    NA% (1989 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    9.6% (1984)
Unemployment rate:
    NA%
Budget:
    revenues $5.5 million; expenditures $6.3 million, including capital
    expenditures of $NA (FY85 est.)
Exports:
    $175,274 (f.o.b., 1985)
  commodities:
    canned coconut cream, copra, honey, passion fruit products, pawpaw, root
    crops, limes, footballs, stamps, handicrafts
  partners:
    NZ 89%, Fiji, Cook Islands, Australia
Imports:
    $3.8 million (c.i.f., 1985)
  commodities:
    food, live animals, manufactured goods, machinery, fuels, lubricants,
    chemicals, drugs
  partners:
    NZ 59%, Fiji 20%, Japan 13%, Western Samoa, Australia, US
External debt:
    $NA
Industrial production:
    growth rate NA%
Electricity:
    1,500 kW capacity; 3 million kWh produced, 1,490 kWh per capita (1990)
Industries:
    tourist, handicrafts
Agriculture:
    copra, coconuts, passion fruit, honey, limes; subsistence crops - taro,
    yams, cassava (tapioca), sweet potatoes; pigs, poultry, beef cattle
Economic aid:
    Western (non-US) countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $62
    million
Currency:
    New Zealand dollar (plural - dollars); 1 New Zealand dollar (NZ$) = 100
    cents
Exchange rates:
    New Zealand dollars (NZ$) per US$1 - 1.8245 (March 1992), 1.7265 (1991),
    1.6750 (1990), 1.6711 (1989), 1.5244 (1988), 1.6886 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    1 April - 31 March

:Niue Communications

Highways:
    123 km all-weather roads, 106 km access and plantation roads
Ports:
    none; offshore anchorage only
Airports:
    1 with permanent-surface runway of 1,650 m
Telecommunications:
    single-line telephone system connects all villages on island; 383
    telephones; 1,000 radio receivers (1987 est.); broadcast stations - 1 AM, 1
    FM, no TV

:Niue Defense Forces

Branches:
    Police Force
Note:
    defense is the responsibility of New Zealand

:Norfolk Island Geography

Total area:
    34.6 km2
Land area:
    34.6 km2
Comparative area:
    about 0.2 times the size of Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    32 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive fishing zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    3 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    subtropical, mild, little seasonal temperature variation
Terrain:
    volcanic formation with mostly rolling plains
Natural resources:
    fish
Land use:
    arable land 0%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 25%; forest and
    woodland 0%; other 75%
Environment:
    subject to typhoons (especially May to July)
Note:
    located 1,575 km east of Australia in the South Pacific Ocean

:Norfolk Island People

Population:
    2,620 (July 1992), growth rate 1.7% (1992)
Birth rate:
    NA births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    NA deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    NA migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    NA deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    NA years male, NA years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    NA children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Norfolk Islander(s); adjective - Norfolk Islander(s)
Ethnic divisions:
    descendants of the Bounty mutiny; more recently, Australian and New Zealand
    settlers
Religions:
    Anglican 39%, Roman Catholic 11.7%, Uniting Church in Australia 16.4%,
    Seventh-Day Adventist 4.4%, none 9.2%, unknown 16.9%, other 2.4% (1986)
Languages:
    English (official) and Norfolk - a mixture of 18th century English and
    ancient Tahitian
Literacy:
    NA% (male NA%, female NA%)
Labor force:
    NA
Organized labor:
    NA

:Norfolk Island Government

Long-form name:
    Territory of Norfolk Island
Type:
    territory of Australia
Capital:
    Kingston (administrative center), Burnt Pine (commercial center)
Administrative divisions:
    none (territory of Australia)
Independence:
    none (territory of Australia)
Constitution:
    Norfolk Island Act of 1957
Legal system:
    wide legislative and executive responsibility under the Norfolk Island Act
    of 1979; Supreme Court
National holiday:
    Pitcairners Arrival Day Anniversary, 8 June (1856)
Executive branch:
    British monarch, governor general of Australia, administrator, Executive
    Council (cabinet)
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Legislative Assembly
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952), represented by Administrator H.
    B. MACDONALD (since NA 1989), who is appointed by the Governor General of
    Australia
  Head of Government:
    Assembly President and Chief Minister John Terence BROWN (since NA)
Political parties and leaders:
    NA
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  Legislative Assembly:
    last held 1989 (held every three years); results - percent of vote by party
    NA; seats - (9 total) percent of seats by party NA
Member of:
    none
Diplomatic representation:
    none (territory of Australia)
Flag:
    three vertical bands of green (hoist side), white, and green with a large
    green Norfolk Island pine tree centered in the slightly wider white band

:Norfolk Island Economy

Overview:
    The primary economic activity is tourism, which has brought a level of
    prosperity unusual among inhabitants of the Pacific Islands. The number of
    visitors has increased steadily over the years and reached 29,000 in FY89.
    Revenues from tourism have given the island a favorable balance of trade and
    helped the agricultural sector to become self-sufficient in the production
    of beef, poultry, and eggs.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $NA, per capita $NA; real growth rate NA%
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    NA%
Unemployment rate:
    NA%
Budget:
    revenues $NA; expenditures $4.2 million, including capital expenditures of
    $400,000 (FY89)
Exports:
    $1.7 million (f.o.b., FY86)
  commodities:
    postage stamps, seeds of the Norfolk Island pine and Kentia Palm, small
    quantities of avocados
  partners:
    Australia, Pacific Islands, NZ, Asia, Europe
Imports:
    $15.6 million (c.i.f., FY86)
  commodities:
    NA
  partners:
    Australia, Pacific Islands, NZ, Asia, Europe
External debt:
    NA
Industrial production:
    growth rate NA%
Electricity:
    7,000 kW capacity; 8 million kWh produced, 3,160 kWh per capita (1990)
Industries:
    tourism
Agriculture:
    Norfolk Island pine seed, Kentia palm seed, cereals, vegetables, fruit,
    cattle, poultry
Economic aid:
    none
Currency:
    Australian dollar (plural - dollars); 1 Australian dollar ($A) = 100 cents
Exchange rates:
    Australian dollars ($A) per US$1 - 1.3177 (March 1992), 1.2835 (1991),
    1.2799 (1990), 1.2618 (1989), 1.2752 (1988), 1.4267 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    1 July - 30 June

:Norfolk Island Communications

Highways:
    80 km of roads, including 53 km paved; remainder are earth formed or coral
    surfaced
Ports:
    none; loading jetties at Kingston and Cascade
Airports:
    1 with permanent-surface runways 1,220-2,439 m (Australian owned)
Telecommunications:
    1,500 radio receivers (1982); radio link service with Sydney; 987 telephones
    (1983); broadcast stations - 1 AM, no FM, no TV

:Norfolk Island Defense Forces

Note:
    defense is the responsibility of Australia

:Northern Mariana Islands Geography

Total area:
    477 km2
Land area:
    477 km2; comprises 16 islands including Saipan, Rota, and Tinian
Comparative area:
    slightly more than 2.5 times the size of Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    1,482 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    12 nm
  Continental shelf:
    200 m (depth)
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    3 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    tropical marine; moderated by northeast trade winds, little seasonal
    temperature variation; dry season December to July, rainy season July to
    October
Terrain:
    southern islands are limestone with level terraces and fringing coral reefs;
    northern islands are volcanic; highest elevation is 471 meters (Mt. Tagpochu
    on Saipan)
Natural resources:
    arable land, fish
Land use:
    arable land 1%; permanent crops NA%; meadows and pastures 19%; forest and
    woodland NA%; other NA%
Environment:
    active volcanos on Pagan and Agrihan; subject to typhoons during the rainy
    season
Note:
    strategic location 5,635 km west-southwest of Honolulu in the North Pacific
    Ocean, about three-quarters of the way between Hawaii and the Philippines

:Northern Mariana Islands People

Population:
    47,168 (July 1992), growth rate 3.0% (1992)
Birth rate:
    35 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    5 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    38 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    66 years male, 69 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    2.7 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    undetermined
Ethnic divisions:
    Chamorro majority; Carolinians and other Micronesians; Spanish, German,
    Japanese admixtures
Religions:
    Christian with a Roman Catholic majority, although traditional beliefs and
    taboos may still be found
Languages:
    English, but Chamorro and Carolinian are also spoken in the home and taught
    in school
Literacy:
    96% (male 97%, female 96%) age 15 and over can read and write (1980)
Labor force:
    12,788 local; 18,799 foreign workers (1990 est.)
Organized labor:
    NA

:Northern Mariana Islands Government

Long-form name:
    Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands
Type:
    commonwealth in political union with the US and administered by the Office
    of Territorial and International Affairs, US Department of the Interior
Capital:
    Saipan
Administrative divisions:
    none
Independence:
    none (commonwealth in political union with the US)
Constitution:
    Covenant Agreement effective 3 November 1986
Legal system:
    based on US system except for customs, wages, immigration laws, and taxation
National holiday:
    Commonwealth Day, 8 January (1978)
Executive branch:
    US President; governor, lieutenant governor
Legislative branch:
    bicameral Legislature consists of an upper house or Senate and a lower house
    or House of Representatives
Judicial branch:
    Commonwealth Court and the Federal District Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President George BUSH (since 20 January 1989); Vice President Dan QUAYLE
    (since 20 January 1989)
  Head of Government:
    Governor Lorenzo I. DeLeon GUERRERO (since 9 January 1990); Lieutenant
    Governor Benjamin T. MANGLONA (since 9 January 1990)
Political parties and leaders:
    Republican Party, Alonzo IGISOMAR; Democratic Party, Felicidad OGUMORO
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18; indigenous inhabitants are US citizens but do not vote
    in US presidential elections
Elections:
  Governor:
    last held in November 1989 (next to be held November 1993); results -
    Lorenzo I. DeLeon GUERRERO, Republican Party, was elected governor
  Senate:
    last held on November 1991 (next to be held November 1993); results -
    percent of vote by party NA; seats - (9 total) Republications 6, Democrats 3
  House of Representatives:
    last held in November 1991 (next to be held November 1993); results -
    percent of vote by party NA; seats - (15 total) Republicans 5, Democrats 10
  US House of Representatives:
    the Commonwealth does not have a nonvoting delegate in Congress; instead, it
    has an elected official ``resident representative'' located in Washington,
    DC; seats - (1 total) Republican (Juan N. BABAUTA)
Member of:
    ESCAP (associate), SPC
Diplomatic representation:
    none
Flag:
    blue with a white five-pointed star superimposed on the gray silhouette of a
    latte stone (a traditional foundation stone used in building) in the center

:Northern Mariana Islands Economy

Overview:
    The economy benefits substantially from financial assistance from the US. An
    agreement for the years 1986 to 1992 entitles the islands to $228 million
    for capital development, government operations, and special programs.
    Another major source of income is the tourist industry, which employs about
    10% of the work force. Japanese tourists predominate. The agricultural
    sector is made up of cattle ranches and small farms producing coconuts,
    breadfruit, tomatoes, and melons. Industry is small scale in nature - mostly
    handicrafts and fish processing.
GNP:
    purchasing power equivalent - $165 million, per capita $3,498; real growth
    rate NA% (1982); note - GNP numbers reflect US spending
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    NA%
Unemployment rate:
    NA%
Budget:
    revenues $NA; expenditures $112.2 million, including capital expenditures of
    $NA (February 1990)
Exports:
    $153.9 million (1989)
  commodities:
    manufactured goods, garments, vegetables, beef, pork
  partners:
    NA
Imports:
    $313.7 million, a 43% increase over previous year (1989)
  commodities:
    NA
  partners:
    NA
External debt:
    none
Industrial production:
    growth rate NA%
Electricity:
    25,000 kW capacity; 35 million kWh produced, 740 kWh per capita (1990)
Industries:
    tourism, construction, light industry, handicrafts
Agriculture:
    coffee, coconuts, fruits, tobacco, cattle
Economic aid:
    none
Currency:
    US currency is used
Exchange rates:
    US currency is used
Fiscal year:
    1 October - 30 September

:Northern Mariana Islands Communications

Highways:
    381.5 km total (134.5 km first-grade primary, 55 km secondary, 192 km local)
    (1991)
Ports:
    Saipan, Rota, Tinian
Airports:
    6 total, 4 usable; 3 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways over
    3,659 m; 1 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 2 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    broadcast stations - 2 AM, 1 FM (1984), 1 TV; 2 Pacific Ocean INTELSAT earth
    stations

:Northern Mariana Islands Defense Forces

Note:
    defense is the responsibility of the US

:Norway Geography

Total area:
    324,220 km2
Land area:
    307,860 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than New Mexico
Land boundaries:
    2,515 km total; Finland 729 km, Sweden 1,619 km, Russia 167 km
Coastline:
    21,925 km; includes mainland 3,419 km, large islands 2,413 km, long fjords,
    numerous small islands, and minor indentations 16,093 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    10 nm
  Continental shelf:
    to depth of exploitation
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    4 nm
Disputes:
    territorial claim in Antarctica (Queen Maud Land); Denmark has challenged
    Norway's maritime claims between Greenland and Jan Mayen; maritime boundary
    dispute with Russia over portion of Barents Sea
Climate:
    temperate along coast, modified by North Atlantic Current; colder interior;
    rainy year-round on west coast
Terrain:
    glaciated; mostly high plateaus and rugged mountains broken by fertile
    valleys; small, scattered plains; coastline deeply indented by fjords;
    arctic tundra in north
Natural resources:
    crude oil, copper, natural gas, pyrites, nickel, iron ore, zinc, lead, fish,
    timber, hydropower
Land use:
    arable land 3%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures NEGL%; forest and
    woodland 27%; other 70%; includes irrigated NEGL%
Environment:
    air and water pollution; acid rain; note - strategic location adjacent to
    sea lanes and air routes in North Atlantic; one of most rugged and longest
    coastlines in world; Norway and Turkey only NATO members having a land
    boundary with Russia

:Norway People

Population:
    4,294,876 (July 1992), growth rate 0.5% (1992)
Birth rate:
    14 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    10 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    2 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    7 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    74 years male, 81 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    1.8 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Norwegian(s); adjective - Norwegian
Ethnic divisions:
    Germanic (Nordic, Alpine, Baltic) and racial-cultural minority of 20,000
    Lapps
Religions:
    Evangelical Lutheran (state church) 87.8%, other Protestant and Roman
    Catholic 3.8%, none 3.2%, unknown 5.2% (1980)
Languages:
    Norwegian (official); small Lapp- and Finnish-speaking minorities
Literacy:
    99% (male NA%, female NA%) age 15 and over can read and write (1976 est.)
Labor force:
    2,167,000 (September 1990); services 34.7%, commerce 18%, mining and
    manufacturing 16.6%, banking and financial services 7.5%, transportation and
    communications 7.2%, construction 7.2%, agriculture, forestry, and fishing
    6.4% (1989)
Organized labor:
    66% of labor force (1985)

:Norway Government

Long-form name:
    Kingdom of Norway
Type:
    constitutional monarchy
Capital:
    Oslo
Administrative divisions:
    19 provinces (fylker, singular - fylke); Akershus, Aust-Agder, Buskerud,
    Finnmark, Hedmark, Hordaland, More og Romsdal, Nordland, Nord-Trondelag,
    Oppland, Oslo, OCstfold, Rogaland, Sogn og Fjordane, Sor-Trondelag,
    Telemark, Troms, Vest-Agder, Vestfold
Independence:
    26 October 1905 (from Sweden)
Constitution:
    17 May 1814, modified in 1884
Dependent areas:
    Bouvet Island, Jan Mayen, Svalbard
Legal system:
    mixture of customary law, civil law system, and common law traditions;
    Supreme Court renders advisory opinions to legislature when asked; accepts
    compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with reservations
National holiday:
    Constitution Day, 17 May (1814)
Executive branch:
    monarch, prime minister, State Council (cabinet)
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Parliament (Storting) with an Upper Chamber (Lagting) and a Lower
    Chamber (Odelsting)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court (Hoiesterett)
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    King HARALD V (since 17 January 1991); Heir Apparent Crown Prince HAAKON
    MAGNUS (born 20 July 1973)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Gro Harlem BRUNDTLAND (since 3 November 1990)
Political parties and leaders:
    Labor, Gro Harlem BRUNDTLAND; Conservative, Kaci Kullmann FIVE; Center
    Party, Anne Enger LAHNSTEIN; Christian People's, Kjell Magne BONDEVIK;
    Socialist Left, Erick SOLHEIM; Norwegian Communist, Kare Andre NILSEN;
    Progress, Carl I. HAGEN; Liberal, Odd Einar DORUM; Finnmark List, leader NA
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  Storting:
    last held on 11 September 1989 (next to be held 6 September 1993); results -
    Labor 34.3%, Conservative 22.2%, Progress 13.0%, Socialist Left 10.1%,
    Christian People's 8.5%, Center Party 6.6%, Finnmark List 0.3%, other 5%;
    seats - (165 total) Labor 63, Conservative 37, Progress 22, Socialist Left
    17, Christian People's 14, Center Party 11, Finnmark List 1
Communists:
    15,500 est.; 5,500 Norwegian Communist Party (NKP); 10,000 Workers Communist
    Party Marxist-Leninist (AKP-ML, pro-Chinese)
Member of:
    AfDB, AsDB, Australia Group, BIS, CCC, CE, CERN, COCOM, CSCE, EBRD, ECE,
    EFTA, ESA, FAO, GATT, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, IDA, IEA, IFAD,
    IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INMARSAT, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, LORCS,
    MTCR, NACC, NATO, NC, NEA, NIB, NSG, OECD, PCA, UN, UNAVEM, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
    UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIFIL, UNIIMOG, UNMOGIP, UNTSO, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, ZC

:Norway Government

Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Kjeld VIBE; Chancery at 2720 34th Street NW, Washington, DC
    20008; telephone (202) 333-6000; there are Norwegian Consulates General in
    Houston, Los Angeles, Minneapolis, New York, and San Francisco, and
    Consulates in Miami and New Orleans
  US:
    Ambassador Loret Miller RUPPE; Embassy at Drammensveien 18, 0244 Oslo 2
    (mailing address is APO AE 09707); telephone [47] (2) 44-85-50; FAX [47] (2)
    43-07-77
Flag:
    red with a blue cross outlined in white that extends to the edges of the
    flag; the vertical part of the cross is shifted to the hoist side in the
    style of the Dannebrog (Danish flag)

:Norway Economy

Overview:
    Norway has a mixed economy involving a combination of free market activity
    and government intervention. The government controls key areas, such as the
    vital petroleum sector, through large-scale state enterprises and
    extensively subsidizes agricultural, fishing, and other sectors. Norway also
    maintains an extensive welfare system that helps propel public-sector
    expenditures to slightly more than 50% of the GDP and results in one of the
    highest average tax burdens in the world (54%). A small country with a high
    dependence on international trade, Norway is basically an exporter of raw
    materials and semiprocessed goods, with an abundance of small- and
    medium-sized firms, and is ranked among the major shipping nations. The
    country is richly endowed with natural resources - petroleum, hydropower,
    fish, forests, and minerals - and is highly dependent on its oil sector to
    keep its economy afloat. Although one of the government's main priorities is
    to reduce this dependency, this situation is not likely to improve for years
    to come. The government also hopes to reduce unemployment and strengthen and
    diversify the economy through tax reform and an expansionary 1992 budget.
    Forecasters predict that economic growth will rise slightly in 1992 because
    of public-sector expansion and moderate improvements in private investment
    and demand. Inflation will remain about 3%, while unemployment continues at
    record levels of over 5% because of the weakness of the economy outside the
    oil sector. Oslo, a member of the European Free Trade Area, is continuing to
    deregulate and harmonize with EC regulations to prepare for the European
    Economic Area (EEA) - which creates a EC/EFTA market with free movement of
    capital, goods, services, and labor - which takes effect in 1993.
GDP:
    purchasing power equivalent - $72.9 billion, per capita $17,100; real growth
    rate 4.1% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    3.5% (1991)
Unemployment rate:
    5.4% (1991, excluding people in job-training programs)
Budget:
    revenues $47.9 billion; expenditures $52.7 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $NA (1991)
Exports:
    $34.2 billion (f.o.b., 1991)
  commodities:
    petroleum and petroleum products 36.5%, natural gas 7.5%, fish 7%, aluminum
    6%, ships 6.2%, pulp and paper
  partners:
    EC 66.5%, Nordic countries 19.5%, developing countries 7.8%, US 4.6%, Japan
    1.9% (1991)
Imports:
    $25.1 billion (c.i.f., 1991)
  commodities:
    machinery, fuels and lubricants, transportation equipment, chemicals,
    foodstuffs, clothing, ships
  partners:
    EC 46.8%, Nordic countries 26.1%, developing countries 12.3%, US 7.8%, Japan
    4.7% (1991)
External debt:
    $10.2 billion (1991)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 4.7% (1991)
Electricity:
    26,735,000 kW capacity; 121,685 million kWh produced, 28,950 kWh per capita
    (1991)

:Norway Economy

Industries:
    petroleum and gas, food processing, shipbuilding, pulp and paper products,
    metals, chemicals, timber, mining, textiles, fishing
Agriculture:
    accounts for 2.8% of GDP and 6.4% of labor force; among world's top 10
    fishing nations; livestock output exceeds value of crops; over half of food
    needs imported; fish catch of 1.76 million metric tons in 1989
Economic aid:
    donor - ODA and OOF commitments (1970-89), $4.4 billion
Currency:
    Norwegian krone (plural - kroner); 1 Norwegian krone (NKr) = 100 re
Exchange rates:
    Norwegian kroner (NKr) per US$1 - 6.1956 (January 1992), 6.4829 (1991),
    6.2597 (1990), 6.9045 (1989), 6.5170 (1988), 6.7375 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Norway Communications

Railroads:
    4,223 km 1.435-meter standard gauge; Norwegian State Railways (NSB) operates
    4,219 km (2,450 km electrified and 96 km double track); 4 km other
Highways:
    79,540 km total; 38,580 km paved; 40,960 km gravel, crushed stone, and earth
Inland waterways:
    1,577 km along west coast; 2.4 m draft vessels maximum
Pipelines:
    refined products 53 km
Ports:
    Oslo, Bergen, Fredrikstad, Kristiansand, Stavanger, Trondheim
Merchant marine:
    864 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 22,978,202 GRT/40,128,177 DWT;
    includes 12 passenger, 20 short-sea passenger, 118 cargo, 2 passenger-cargo,
    19 refrigerated cargo, 16 container, 49 roll-on/roll-off, 22 vehicle
    carrier, 1 railcar carrier, 180 oil tanker, 93 chemical tanker, 83 liquefied
    gas, 28 combination ore/oil, 211 bulk, 10 combination bulk; note - the
    government has created a captive register, the Norwegian International Ship
    Register (NIS), as a subset of the Norwegian register; ships on the NIS
    enjoy many benefits of flags of convenience and do not have to be crewed by
    Norwegians; the majority of ships (777) under the Norwegian flag are now
    registered with the NIS
Civil air:
    76 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    103 total, 102 usable; 64 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 12 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 16 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    high-quality domestic and international telephone, telegraph, and telex
    services; 2 buried coaxial cable systems; 3,102,000 telephones; broadcast
    stations - 46 AM, 350 private and 143 government FM, 54 (2,100 repeaters)
    TV; 4 coaxial submarine cables; 3 communications satellite earth stations
    operating in the EUTELSAT, INTELSAT (1 Atlantic Ocean), MARISAT, and
    domestic systems

:Norway Defense Forces

Branches:
    Norwegian Army, Royal Norwegian Navy, Royal Norwegian Air Force, Home Guard
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 1,129,871; 944,290 fit for military service; 33,175 reach
    military age (20) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $3.8 billion, 3.8% of GDP (1991)

:Oman Geography

Total area:
    212,460 km2
Land area:
    212,460 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than Kansas
Land boundaries:
    1,374 km total; Saudi Arabia 676 km, UAE 410 km, Yemen 288 km
Coastline:
    2,092 km
Maritime claims:
  Continental shelf:
    to be defined
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    no defined boundary with most of UAE; Administrative Line with UAE in far
    north; there is a proposed treaty with Yemen (which has not yet been
    formally accepted) to settle the Omani-Yemeni boundary
Climate:
    dry desert; hot, humid along coast; hot, dry interior; strong southwest
    summer monsoon (May to September) in far south
Terrain:
    vast central desert plain, rugged mountains in north and south
Natural resources:
    crude oil, copper, asbestos, some marble, limestone, chromium, gypsum,
    natural gas
Land use:
    arable land NEGL%; permanent crops NEGL%; meadows and pastures 5%; forest
    and woodland NEGL%; other 95%; includes irrigated NEGL%
Environment:
    summer winds often raise large sandstorms and duststorms in interior; sparse
    natural freshwater resources
Note:
    strategic location with small foothold on Musandam Peninsula controlling
    Strait of Hormuz (17% of world's oil production transits this point going
    from Persian Gulf to Arabian Sea)

:Oman People

Population:
    1,587,581 (July 1992), growth rate 3.5% (1992)
Birth rate:
    41 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    6 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    40 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    65 years male, 69 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    6.6 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Omani(s); adjective - Omani
Ethnic divisions:
    mostly Arab, with small Balochi, Zanzibari, and South Asian (Indian,
    Pakistani, Bangladeshi) groups
Religions:
    Ibadhi Muslim 75%; remainder Sunni Muslim, Shi`a Muslim, some Hindu
Languages:
    Arabic (official); English, Balochi, Urdu, Indian dialects
Literacy:
    NA% (male NA%, female NA%)
Labor force:
    430,000; agriculture 60% (est.); 58% are non-Omani
Organized labor:
    trade unions are illegal

:Oman Government

Long-form name:
    Sultanate of Oman
Type:
    absolute monarchy; independent, with residual UK influence
Capital:
    Muscat
Administrative divisions:
    there are no first-order administrative divisions as defined by the US
    Government, but there are 3 governorates (muhafazah, singular - muhafazat);
    Musqat, Musandam, Zufar
Independence:
    1650, expulsion of the Portuguese
Constitution:
    none
Legal system:
    based on English common law and Islamic law; ultimate appeal to the sultan;
    has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
National holiday:
    National Day, 18 November
Executive branch:
    sultan, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    National Assembly
Judicial branch:
    none; traditional Islamic judges and a nascent civil court system
Leaders:
  Chief of State and Head of Government:
    Sultan and Prime Minister QABOOS bin Sa`id Al Sa`id (since 23 July 1970)
Suffrage:
    none
Elections:
    elections scheduled for October 1992
Other political or pressure groups:
    outlawed Popular Front for the Liberation of Oman (PFLO), based in Yemen
Member of:
    ABEDA, AFESD, AL, AMF, ESCWA, FAO, G-77, GCC, IBRD, ICAO, IDA, IDB, IFAD,
    IFC, IMF, IMO, INMARSAT, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, ISO (correspondent), ITU,
    NAM, OIC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WMO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Awadh bin Badr AL-SHANFARI; Chancery at 2342 Massachusetts Avenue
    NW, Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 387-1980 through 1982
  US:
    Ambassador Richard W. BOEHM; Embassy at address NA, Muscat (mailing address
    is P. O. Box 50202 Madinat Qaboos, Muscat); telephone [968] 698-989; FAX
    [968] 604-316
Flag:
    three horizontal bands of white (top, double width), red, and green (double
    width) with a broad, vertical, red band on the hoist side; the national
    emblem (a khanjar dagger in its sheath superimposed on two crossed swords in
    scabbards) in white is centered at the top of the vertical band

:Oman Economy

Overview:
    Economic performance is closely tied to the fortunes of the oil industry.
    Petroleum accounts for more than 90% of export earnings, about 80% of
    government revenues, and roughly 40% of GDP. Oman has proved oil reserves of
    4 billion barrels, equivalent to about 20 years' supply at the current rate
    of extraction. Although agriculture employs a majority of the population,
    urban centers depend on imported food.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $10.6 billion, per capita $6,925 (1990); real
    growth rate 0.5% (1989)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    1.3% (1989)
Unemployment rate:
    NA%
Budget:
    revenues $4.9 billion; expenditures $4.9 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $825 million (1990)
Exports:
    $5.5 billion (f.o.b., 1990)
  commodities:
    petroleum, reexports, fish, processed copper, fruits and vegetables
  partners:
    Japan 35%, South Korea 21%, Singapore 7%, US 6%
Imports:
    $2.5 billion (f.o.b, 1990)
  commodities:
    machinery, transportation equipment, manufactured goods, food, livestock,
    lubricants
  partners:
    UK 20%, UAE 20%, Japan 17%, US 7%
External debt:
    $3.1 billion (December 1989 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 10% (1989), including petroleum sector
Electricity:
    1,120,000 kW capacity; 5,000 million kWh produced, 3,800 kWh per capita
    (1991)
Industries:
    crude oil production and refining, natural gas production, construction,
    cement, copper
Agriculture:
    accounts for 6% of GDP and 60% of the labor force (including fishing); less
    than 2% of land cultivated; largely subsistence farming (dates, limes,
    bananas, alfalfa, vegetables, camels, cattle); not self-sufficient in food;
    annual fish catch averages 100,000 metric tons
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $137 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $148 million; OPEC
    bilateral aid (1979-89), $797 million
Currency:
    Omani rial (plural - rials); 1 Omani rial (RO) = 1,000 baiza
Exchange rates:
    Omani rials (RO) per US$1 - 0.3845 (fixed rate since 1986)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Oman Communications

Highways:
    26,000 km total; 6,000 km paved, 20,000 km motorable track
Pipelines:
    crude oil 1,300 km; natural gas 1,030 km
Ports:
    Mina' Qabus, Mina' Raysut
Merchant marine:
    1 passenger ship (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 4,442 GRT/1,320 DWT
Civil air:
    19 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    134 total, 127 usable; 6 with permanent-surface runways; 1 with runways over
    3,659 m; 8 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 73 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    fair system of open-wire, microwave, and radio communications stations;
    limited coaxial cable 50,000 telephones; broadcast stations - 2 AM, 3 FM, 7
    TV; satellite earth stations - 2 Indian Ocean INTELSAT, 1 ARABSAT, and 8
    domestic

:Oman Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Navy, Air Force, Royal Oman Police
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 359,394; 204,006 fit for military service
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $1.73 billion, 16% of GDP (1992 budget)

:Pacific Islands, Trust Territory of the Geography

Total area:
    458 km2
Land area:
    458 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly more than 2.5 times the size of Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    1,519 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    12 nm
  Continental shelf:
    200 m (depth)
  Exclusive fishing zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    3 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    wet season May to November; hot and humid
Terrain:
    about 200 islands varying geologically from the high, mountainous main
    island of Babelthuap to low, coral islands usually fringed by large barrier
    reefs
Natural resources:
    forests, minerals (especially gold), marine products; deep-seabed minerals
Land use:
    arable land NA%; permanent crops NA%; meadows and pastures NA%; forest and
    woodland NA%; other NA%
Environment:
    subject to typhoons from June to December; archipelago of six island groups
    totaling over 200 islands in the Caroline chain
Note:
    important location 850 km southeast of the Philippines; includes World War
    II battleground of Peleliu and world-famous rock islands

:Pacific Islands, Trust Territory of the People

Population:
    15,775 (July 1992), growth rate 1.9% (1992)
Birth rate:
    23 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    7 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    2 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    25 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    69 years male, 73 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    3.0 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Palauan(s); adjective - Palauan
Ethnic divisions:
    Palauans are a composite of Polynesian, Malayan, and Melanesian races
Religions:
    predominantly Christian, including Catholics, Seventh-Day Adventists,
    Jehovah's Witnesses, the Assembly of God, the Liebenzell Mission, and
    Latter-Day Saints; a third of the population observes the Modekngei
    religion, indigenous to Palau
Languages:
    English is an official language, though Palauan is also official in 13 of
    Palau's 16 states, and Tobi and Sonsorolese are official in the 3 other
    states
Literacy:
    92% (male 93%, female 91%) age 15 and over can read and write (1980)
Labor force:
    NA
Organized labor:
    NA

:Pacific Islands, Trust Territory of the Government

Long-form name:
    Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands (no short-form name); may change to
    Republic of Palau after independence; note - Belau, the native form of
    Palau, is sometimes used
Type:
    UN trusteeship administered by the US; constitutional government signed a
    Compact of Free Association with the US on 10 January 1986, which was never
    approved in a series of UN-observed plebiscites; until the UN trusteeship is
    terminated with entry into force of the Compact, Palau remains under US
    administration as the Palau District of the Trust Territory of the Pacific
    Islands
Capital:
    Koror; a new capital is being built about 20 km northeast in eastern
    Babelthuap
Administrative divisions:
    there are no first-order administrative divisions as defined by the US
    Government, but there are 16 states; Aimeliik, Airai, Angaur, Kayangel,
    Koror, Melekeok, Ngaraard, Ngardmau, Ngaremlengui, Ngatpang, Ngchesar,
    Ngerchelong, Ngiwal, Peleliu, Sonsorol, Tobi
Independence:
    still part of the US-administered UN trusteeship (the last polity remaining
    under the trusteeship; the Republic of the Marshall Islands, Federated
    States of Micronesia, and Commonwealth of the Northern Marianas have left);
    administered by the Office of Territorial and International Affairs, US
    Department of Interior
Constitution:
    1 January 1981
Legal system:
    based on Trust Territory laws, acts of the legislature, municipal, common,
    and customary laws
National holiday:
    Constitution Day, 9 July (1979)
Executive branch:
    US president, US vice president, national president, national vice president
Legislative branch:
    bicameral Parliament (Olbiil Era Kelulau or OEK) consists of an upper house
    or Senate and a lower house or House of Delegates
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court, National Court, and Court of Common Pleas
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President George BUSH (since 20 January 1989); represented by the Assistant
    Secretary for Territorial Affairs, US Department of the Interior, Stella
    GUERRA (since 21 July 1989) and J. Victor HOBSON Jr., Director (since 16
    December 1990)
  Head of Government:
    President Ngiratkel ETPISON (since 2 November 1988), Vice-President Kuniwo
    NAKAMURA (since 2 November 1988)
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  House of Delegates:
    last held 2 November 1988 (next to be held NA November 1992); results -
    percent of vote NA; seats - (16 total); number of seats by party NA
  President:
    last held on 2 November 1988 (next to be held NA November 1992); results -
    Ngiratkel ETPISON 26.3%, Roman TMETUCHL 25.9%, Thomas REMENGESAU 19.5%,
    other 28.3%

:Pacific Islands, Trust Territory of the Government

  Senate:
    last held 2 November 1988 (next to be held NA November 1992); results -
    percent of vote NA; seats - (14 total); number of seats by party NA
Member of:
    ESCAP (associate), SPC, SPF (observer)
Diplomatic representation:
    none
  US:
    US Liaison Officer Lloyed W. MOSS; US Liaison Office at Top Side, Neeriyas,
    Koror (mailing address: P. O. Box 6028, Koror, PW 96940); telephone (680)
    488-2920; (680) 488-2911
Flag:
    light blue with a large yellow disk (representing the moon) shifted slightly
    to the hoist side

:Pacific Islands, Trust Territory of the Economy

Overview:
    The economy consists primarily of subsistence agriculture and fishing.
    Tourism provides some foreign exchange, although the remote location of
    Palau and a shortage of suitable facilities has hindered development. The
    government is the major employer of the work force, relying heavily on
    financial assistance from the US.
GDP:
    purchasing power equivalent - $31.6 million, per capita $2,260; real growth
    rate NA% (1986); note - GDP numbers reflect US spending
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    NA%
Unemployment rate:
    20% (1986)
Budget:
    revenues $6.0 million; expenditures NA, including capital expenditures of NA
    (1986)
Exports:
    $0.5 million (f.o.b., 1986)
  commodities:
    NA
  partners:
    US, Japan
Imports:
    $27.2 million (c.i.f., 1986)
  commodities:
    NA
  partners:
    US
External debt:
    about $100 million (1989)
Industrial production:
    growth rate NA%
Electricity:
    16,000 kW capacity; 22 million kWh produced, 1,540 kWh per capita (1990)
Industries:
    tourism, craft items (shell, wood, pearl), some commercial fishing and
    agriculture
Agriculture:
    subsistence-level production of coconut, copra, cassava, sweet potatoes
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $2,560 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $92 million
Currency:
    US currency is used
Exchange rates:
    US currency is used
Fiscal year:
    1 October - 30 September

:Pacific Islands, Trust Territory of the Communications

Highways:
    22.3 km paved, some stone-, coral-, or laterite-surfaced roads (1991)
Ports:
    Koror
Airports:
    2 with permanent-surface runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    broadcast stations - 1 AM, 1 FM, 2 TV; 1 Pacific Ocean INTELSAT earth
    station

:Pacific Islands, Trust Territory of the Defense Forces

Note:
    defense is the responsibility of the US and that will not change when the UN
    trusteeship terminates if the Compact of Free Association with the US goes
    into effect

:Pacific Ocean Geography

Total area:
    165,384,000 km2
Land area:
    165,384,000 km2; includes Arafura Sea, Banda Sea, Bellingshausen Sea, Bering
    Sea, Bering Strait, Coral Sea, East China Sea, Gulf of Alaska, Makassar
    Strait, Philippine Sea, Ross Sea, Sea of Japan, Sea of Okhotsk, South China
    Sea, Tasman Sea, and other tributary water bodies
Comparative area:
    slightly less than 18 times the size of the US; the largest ocean (followed
    by the Atlantic Ocean, the Indian Ocean, and the Arctic Ocean); covers about
    one-third of the global surface; larger than the total land area of the
    world
Coastline:
    135,663 km
Disputes:
    some maritime disputes (see littoral states)
Climate:
    the western Pacific is monsoonal - a rainy season occurs during the summer
    months, when moisture-laden winds blow from the ocean over the land, and a
    dry season during the winter months, when dry winds blow from the Asian land
    mass back to the ocean
Terrain:
    surface in the northern Pacific dominated by a clockwise, warm-water gyre
    (broad, circular system of currents) and in the southern Pacific by a
    counterclockwise, cool-water gyre; sea ice occurs in the Bering Sea and Sea
    of Okhotsk during winter and reaches maximum northern extent from Antarctica
    in October; the ocean floor in the eastern Pacific is dominated by the East
    Pacific Rise, while the western Pacific is dissected by deep trenches; the
    world's greatest depth is 10,924 meters in the Marianas Trench
Natural resources:
    oil and gas fields, polymetallic nodules, sand and gravel aggregates, placer
    deposits, fish
Environment:
    endangered marine species include the dugong, sea lion, sea otter, seals,
    turtles, and whales; oil pollution in Philippine Sea and South China Sea;
    dotted with low coral islands and rugged volcanic islands in the
    southwestern Pacific Ocean; subject to tropical cyclones (typhoons) in
    southeast and east Asia from May to December (most frequent from July to
    October); tropical cyclones (hurricanes) may form south of Mexico and strike
    Central America and Mexico from June to October (most common in August and
    September); southern shipping lanes subject to icebergs from Antarctica;
    occasional El Nino phenomenon occurs off the coast of Peru when the trade
    winds slacken and the warm Equatorial Countercurrent moves south, killing
    the plankton that is the primary food source for anchovies; consequently,
    the anchovies move to better feeding grounds, causing resident marine birds
    to starve by the thousands because of their lost food source
Note:
    the major choke points are the Bering Strait, Panama Canal, Luzon Strait,
    and the Singapore Strait; the Equator divides the Pacific Ocean into the
    North Pacific Ocean and the South Pacific Ocean; ships subject to
    superstructure icing in extreme north from October to May and in extreme
    south from May to October; persistent fog in the northern Pacific from June
    to December is a hazard to shipping; surrounded by a zone of violent
    volcanic and earthquake activity sometimes referred to as the Pacific Ring
    of Fire

:Pacific Ocean Economy

Overview:
    The Pacific Ocean is a major contributor to the world economy and
    particularly to those nations its waters directly touch. It provides cheap
    sea transportation between East and West, extensive fishing grounds,
    offshore oil and gas fields, minerals, and sand and gravel for the
    construction industry. In 1985 over half (54%) of the world's total fish
    catch came from the Pacific Ocean, which is the only ocean where the fish
    catch has increased every year since 1978. Exploitation of offshore oil and
    gas reserves is playing an ever-increasing role in the energy supplies of
    Australia, New Zealand, China, US, and Peru. The high cost of recovering
    offshore oil and gas, combined with the wide swings in world prices for oil
    since 1985, has slowed but not stopped new drillings.
Industries:
    fishing, oil and gas production

:Pacific Ocean Communications

Ports:
    Bangkok (Thailand), Hong Kong, Los Angeles (US), Manila (Philippines), Pusan
    (South Korea), San Francisco (US), Seattle (US), Shanghai (China),
    Singapore, Sydney (Australia), Vladivostok (Russia), Wellington (NZ),
    Yokohama (Japan)
Telecommunications:
    several submarine cables with network focused on Guam and Hawaii

:Pakistan Geography

Total area:
    803,940 km2
Land area:
    778,720 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly less than twice the size of California
Land boundaries:
    6,774 km total; Afghanistan 2,430 km, China 523 km, India 2,912 km, Iran 909
    km
Coastline:
    1,046 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    24 nm
  Continental shelf:
    edge of continental margin or 200 nm
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    boundary with India; border question (Durand line); water sharing problems
    with upstream riparian India over the Indus
Climate:
    mostly hot, dry desert; temperate in northwest; arctic in north
Terrain:
    flat Indus plain in east; mountains in north and northwest; Balochistan
    plateau in west
Natural resources:
    land, extensive natural gas reserves, limited crude oil, poor quality coal,
    iron ore, copper, salt, limestone
Land use:
    arable land 26%; permanent crops NEGL%; meadows and pastures 6%; forest and
    woodland 4%; other 64%; includes irrigated 19%
Environment:
    frequent earthquakes, occasionally severe especially in north and west;
    flooding along the Indus after heavy rains (July and August); deforestation;
    soil erosion; desertification; water logging
Note:
    controls Khyber Pass and Malakand Pass, traditional invasion routes between
    Central Asia and the Indian Subcontinent

:Pakistan People

Population:
    121,664,539 (July 1992), growth rate 2.9% (1992)
Birth rate:
    43 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    13 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    -1 migrant/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    105 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    56 years male, 57 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    6.6 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Pakistani(s); adjective - Pakistani
Ethnic divisions:
    Punjabi, Sindhi, Pashtun (Pathan), Baloch, Muhajir (immigrants from India
    and their descendents)
Religions:
    Muslim 97% (Sunni 77%, Shi`a 20%), Christian, Hindu, and other 3%
Languages:
    Urdu and English (both official); total spoken languages - Punjabi 64%,
    Sindhi 12%, Pashtu 8%, Urdu 7%, Balochi and other 9%; English is lingua
    franca of Pakistani elite and most government ministries, but official
    policies are promoting its gradual replacement by Urdu
Literacy:
    35% (male 47%, female 21%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    28,900,000; agriculture 54%, mining and manufacturing 13%, services 33%;
    extensive export of labor (1987 est.)
Organized labor:
    about 10% of industrial work force

:Pakistan Government

Long-form name:
    Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Type:
    parliamentary with strong executive, federal republic
Capital:
    Islamabad
Administrative divisions:
    4 provinces, 1 territory*, and 1 capital territory**; Balochistan, Federally
    Administered Tribal Areas*, Islamabad Capital Territory**, North-West
    Frontier, Punjab, Sindh; note - the Pakistani-administered portion of the
    disputed Jammu and Kashmir region includes Azad Kashmir and the Northern
    Areas
Independence:
    14 August 1947 (from UK; formerly West Pakistan)
Constitution:
    10 April 1973, suspended 5 July 1977, restored with amendments, 30 December
    1985
Legal system:
    based on English common law with provisions to accommodate Pakistan's
    stature as an Islamic state; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with
    reservations
National holiday:
    Pakistan Day (proclamation of the republic), 23 March (1956)
Executive branch:
    president, prime minister, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    bicameral Parliament (Majlis-e-Shoora) consists of an upper house or Senate
    and a lower house or National Assembly
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court, Federal Islamic (Shari`at) Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President GHULAM ISHAQ Khan (since 13 December 1988)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Mian Nawaz SHARIF (since 6 November 1990)
Political parties and leaders:
    Islamic Democratic Alliance (Islami Jamuri Ittehad or IJI) - the Pakistan
    Muslim League (PML) led by Mohammed Khan JUNEJO is the main party in the
    IJI; Pakistan People's Party (PPP), Benazir BHUTTO; note - in September 1990
    the PPP announced the formation of the People's Democratic Alliance (PDA),
    an electoral alliance including the following four parties - PPP, Solidarity
    Movement (Tehrik Istiqlal), Movement for the Implementation of Shi`a
    Jurisprudence (Tehrik-i-Nifaz Fiqh Jafariya or TNFJ), and the PML (Malik
    faction); Muhajir Qaumi Movement (MQM), Altaf HUSSAIN; Awami National Party
    (ANP), Khan Abdul Wali KHAN; Jamiat-ul-Ulema-i-Islam (JUI), Fazlur RAHMAN;
    Jamhoori Watan Party (JWP), Mohammad Akbar Khan BUGTI; Pakistan National
    Party (PNP), Mir Ghaus Bakhsh BIZENJO; Pakistan Khawa Milli Party (PKMP),
    leader NA; Assembly of Pakistani Clergy (Jamiat-ul-Ulema-e-Pakistan or JUP),
    Maulana Shah Ahmed NOORANI; Jamaat-i-Islami (JI), Qazi Hussain AHMED
Suffrage:
    universal at age 21
Elections:
  President:
    last held on 12 December 1988 (next to be held NA December 1993); results -
    Ghulam Ishaq KHAN was elected by Parliament and the four provincial
    assemblies

:Pakistan Government

  Senate:
    last held March 1991 (next to be held NA March 1994); seats - (87 total) IJI
    57, Tribal Area Representatives (nonparty) 8, PPP 5, ANP 5, JWP 4, MQM 3,
    PNP 2, PKMP 1, JUI 1, independent 1
Elections:
  National Assembly:
    last held on 24 October 1990 (next to be held by NA October 1995); results -
    percent of vote by party NA; seats - (217 total) IJI 107, PDA 45, MQM 15,
    ANP 6, JUI 2, JWP 2, PNP 2, PKMP 1, independents 14, religious minorities
    10, Tribal Area Representatives (nonparty) 8, vacant 1
Communists:
    the Communist party is officially banned but is allowed to operate openly
Other political or pressure groups:
    military remains dominant political force; ulema (clergy), industrialists,
    and small merchants also influential
Member of:
    AsDB, C, CCC, CP, ESCAP, FAO, G-19, G-24, G-77, GATT, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC,
    ICFTU, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INMARSAT, INTELSAT, INTERPOL,
    IOC, ISO, ITU, LORCS, NAM, OAS (observer), OIC, PCA, SAARC, UN, UNCTAD,
    UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Abida HUSSAIN; Chancery at 2315 Massachusetts Avenue NW,
    Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 939-6200; there is a Pakistani
    Consulate General in New York
  US:
    Ambassador Nicholas PLATT; Embassy at Diplomatic Enclave, Ramna 5, Islamabad
    (mailing address is P. O. Box 1048, PSC 1212, Box 2000, Islamabad or APO AE
    09812-2000); telephone [92] (51) 826161 through 79; FAX [92] (51) 822004;
    there are US Consulates General in Karachi and Lahore and a Consulate in
    Peshawar
Flag:
    green with a vertical white band on the hoist side; a large white crescent
    and star are centered in the green field; the crescent, star, and color
    green are traditional symbols of Islam

:Pakistan Economy

Overview:
    Pakistan is a poor Third World country faced with the usual problems of
    rapidly increasing population, sizable government deficits, and heavy
    dependence on foreign aid. In addition, the economy must support a large
    military establishment and provide for the needs of 4 million Afghan
    refugees. A real economic growth rate averaging 5-6% in recent years has
    enabled the country to cope with these problems. Almost all agriculture and
    small-scale industry is in private hands. In 1990, Pakistan embarked on a
    sweeping economic liberalization program to boost foreign and domestic
    private investment and lower foreign aid dependence. The SHARIF government
    has denationalized several state-owned firms and has attracted some foreign
    investment. Pakistan likely will have difficulty raising living standards
    because of its rapidly expanding population. At the current rate of growth,
    population would double in 25 years.
GNP:
    exchange rate conversion - $45.4 billion, per capita $380; real growth rate
    4.8% (FY91 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    12.3% (FY91)
Unemployment rate:
    10% (FY91 est.)
Budget:
    revenues $6.4 billion; expenditures $10 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $2.6 billion (FY92 est.)
Exports:
    $6.0 billion (f.o.b., FY91)
  commodities:
    cotton, textiles, clothing, rice
  partners:
    EC 31%, Japan 9%, US 13% (FY90)
Imports:
    $7.9 billion (f.o.b., FY91)
  commodities:
    petroleum, petroleum products, machinery, transportation, equipment,
    vegetable oils, animal fats, chemicals
  partners:
    EC 21%, US 14%, Japan 13% (FY90)
External debt:
    $20.1 billion (1990 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 5.7% (FY91); accounts for almost 20% of GNP
Electricity:
    8,500,000 kW capacity; 35,000 million kWh produced, 300 kWh per capita
    (1991)
Industries:
    textiles, food processing, beverages, construction materials, clothing,
    paper products, shrimp
Agriculture:
    25% of GNP, over 50% of labor force; world's largest contiguous irrigation
    system; major crops - cotton, wheat, rice, sugarcane, fruits, and
    vegetables; live-stock products - milk, beef, mutton, eggs; self-sufficient
    in food grain
Illicit drugs:
    illicit producer of opium and hashish for the international drug trade;
    government eradication efforts on poppy cultivation of limited success

:Pakistan Economy

Economic aid:
    (including Bangladesh only before 1972) US commitments, including Ex-Im
    (FY70-89), $4.5 billion; Western (non-US) countries, ODA and OOF bilateral
    commitments (1980-89), $9.1 billion; OPEC bilateral aid (1979-89), $2.3
    billion; Communist countries (1970-89), $3.2 billion
Currency:
    Pakistani rupee (plural - rupees); 1 Pakistani rupee (PRe) = 100 paisa
Exchange rates:
    Pakistani rupees (PRs) per US$1 - 24.980 (March 1992), 23.801 (1991), 21.707
    (1990), 20.541 (1989), 18.003 (1988), 17.399 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    1 July - 30 June

:Pakistan Communications

Railroads:
    8,773 km total; 7,718 km broad gauge, 445 km 1-meter gauge, and 610 km less
    than 1-meter gauge; 1,037 km broad-gauge double track; 286 km electrified;
    all government owned (1985)
Highways:
    101,315 km total (1987); 40,155 km paved, 23,000 km gravel, 29,000 km
    improved earth, and 9,160 km unimproved earth or sand tracks (1985)
Pipelines:
    crude oil 250 km; natural gas 4,044 km; petroleum products 885 km (1987)
Ports:
    Gwadar, Karachi, Port Muhammad bin Qasim
Merchant marine:
    28 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 334,227 GRT/495,425 DWT; includes 3
    passenger-cargo, 24 cargo, 1 petroleum tanker
Civil air:
    40 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    112 total, 104 usable; 75 with permanent-surface runways; 1 with runways
    over 3,659 m; 31 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 43 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    good international communication service over microwave and INTELSAT
    satellite; domestic communications poor; 813,000 telephones (1990);
    broadcast service good; broadcast stations - 19 AM, 8 FM, 29 TV; satellite
    earth stations - 1 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT and 2 Indian Ocean INTELSAT

:Pakistan Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Navy, Air Force, Civil Armed Forces, National Guard
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 27,811,099; 17,064,073 fit for military service; 1,287,041
    reach military age (17) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $2.9 billion, 6% of GNP (1992 budget)

:Palmyra Atoll Geography

Total area:
    11.9 km2
Land area:
    11.9 km2
Comparative area:
    about 20 times the size of The Mall in Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    14.5 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    12 nm
  Continental shelf:
    200 m (depth)
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    equatorial, hot, and very rainy
Terrain:
    low, with maximum elevations of about 2 meters
Natural resources:
    none
Land use:
    arable land 0%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 0%; forest and
    woodland 100%; other 0%
Environment:
    about 50 islets covered with dense vegetation, coconut trees, and balsa-like
    trees up to 30 meters tall
Note:
    located 1,600 km south-southwest of Honolulu in the North Pacific Ocean,
    almost halfway between Hawaii and American Samoa

:Palmyra Atoll People

Population:
    uninhabited

:Palmyra Atoll Government

Long-form name:
    none
Type:
    unincorporated territory of the US; privately owned, but administered by the
    Office of Territorial and International Affairs, US Department of the
    Interior
Capital:
    none; administered from Washington, DC

:Palmyra Atoll Economy

Overview:
    no economic activity

:Palmyra Atoll Communications

Ports:
    the main harbor is West Lagoon, which is entered by a channel on the
    southwest side of the atoll; both the channel and harbor will accommodate
    vessels drawing 4 meters of water; much of the road and many causeways built
    during the war are unserviceable and overgrown
Airports:
    1 with permanent-surface runway 1,220-2,439 m

:Palmyra Atoll Defense Forces

Branches:
  Note:
    defense is the responsibility of the US

:Panama Geography

Total area:
    78,200 km2
Land area:
    75,990 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than South Carolina
Land boundaries:
    555 km total; Colombia 225 km, Costa Rica 330 km
Coastline:
    2,490 km
Maritime claims:
  Territorial sea:
    200 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    tropical; hot, humid, cloudy; prolonged rainy season (May to January), short
    dry season (January to May)
Terrain:
    interior mostly steep, rugged mountains and dissected, upland plains;
    coastal areas largely plains and rolling hills
Natural resources:
    copper, mahogany forests, shrimp
Land use:
    arable land 6%; permanent crops 2%; meadows and pastures 15%; forest and
    woodland 54%; other 23%; includes irrigated NEGL%
Environment:
    dense tropical forest in east and northwest
Note:
    strategic location on eastern end of isthmus forming land bridge connecting
    North and South America; controls Panama Canal that links North Atlantic
    Ocean via Caribbean Sea with North Pacific Ocean

:Panama People

Population:
    2,529,902 (July 1992), growth rate 2.0% (1992)
Birth rate:
    25 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    5 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    NEGL migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    17 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    73 years male, 77 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    3.0 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Panamanian(s); adjective - Panamanian
Ethnic divisions:
    mestizo (mixed Indian and European ancestry) 70%, West Indian 14%, white
    10%, Indian 6%
Religions:
    Roman Catholic over 93%, Protestant 6%
Languages:
    Spanish (official); English as native tongue 14%; many Panamanians bilingual
Literacy:
    88% (male 88%, female 88%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    770,472 (1987); government and community services 27.9%; agriculture,
    hunting, and fishing 26.2%; commerce, restaurants, and hotels 16%;
    manufacturing and mining 10.5%; construction 5.3%; transportation and
    communications 5.3%; finance, insurance, and real estate 4.2%; Canal Zone
    2.4%; shortage of skilled labor, but an oversupply of unskilled labor
Organized labor:
    17% of labor force (1986)

:Panama Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Panama
Type:
    centralized republic
Capital:
    Panama
Administrative divisions:
    9 provinces (provincias, singular - provincia) and 1 territory* (comarca);
    Bocas del Toro, Chiriqui, Cocle, Colon, Darien, Herrera, Los Santos, Panama,
    San Blas*, Veraguas
Independence:
    3 November 1903 (from Colombia; became independent from Spain 28 November
    1821)
Constitution:
    11 October 1972; major reforms adopted April 1983
Legal system:
    based on civil law system; judicial review of legislative acts in the
    Supreme Court of Justice; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with
    reservations
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 3 November (1903)
Executive branch:
    president, two vice presidents, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Legislative Assembly (Asamblea Legislativa)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court of Justice (Corte Suprema de Justicia) currently being
    reorganized
Leaders:
  Chief of State and Head of Government:
    President Guillermo ENDARA (since 20 December 1989, elected 7 May 1989);
    First Vice President Ricardo ARIAS Calderon (since 20 December 1989, elected
    7 May 1989); Second Vice President Guillermo FORD Boyd (since 20 December
    1989, elected 7 May 1989)
Political parties and leaders:
  government alliance:
    Nationalist Republican Liberal Movement (MOLIRENA), Alfredo RAMIREZ;
    Authentic Liberal Party (PLA), Arnulfo ESCALONA; Arnulfista Party (PA),
    Mireya MOSCOSO DE GRUBER;
  opposition parties:
    Christian Democratic Party (PDC), Ricardo ARIAS Calderon; Democratic
    Revolutionary Party (PRD, ex-official government party), Gerardo GONZALEZ;
    Agrarian Labor Party (PALA), Carlos LOPEZ Guevara; Liberal Party (PL),
    Roderick ESQUIVEL; Popular Action Party (PAPO); Socialist Workers Party
    (PST, leftist), Jose CAMBRA; Revolutionary Workers Party (PRT, leftist),
    Graciela DIXON
Suffrage:
    universal and compulsory at age 18
Elections:
  President:
    last held on 7 May 1989, annulled but later upheld (next to be held NA May
    1994); results - anti-NORIEGA coalition believed to have won about 75% of
    the total votes cast
  Legislative Assembly:
    last held on 27 January 1991 (next to be held NA May 1994); results -
    percent of vote by party NA; seats - (67 total)
  progovernment parties:
    PDC 28, MOLIRENA 16, PA 7, PLA 4

:Panama Government

  opposition parties:
    PRD 10, PALA 1, PL 1; note - the PDC went into opposition after President
    Guillermo ENDARA ousted the PDC from the coalition government in April 1991
Communists:
    People's Party (PdP), mainline Communist party, did not obtain the necessary
    3% of the total vote in the 1984 election to retain its legal status; about
    3,000 members
Other political or pressure groups:
    National Council of Organized Workers (CONATO); National Council of Private
    Enterprise (CONEP); Panamanian Association of Business Executives (APEDE);
    National Civic Crusade; National Committee for the Right to Life
Member of:
    AG (associate), CG, ECLAC, FAO, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, IDA,
    IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INMARSAT, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, IOM, ITU, LAES,
    LAIA (observer), LORCS, NAM, OAS, OPANAL, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO,
    UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Jaime FORD; Chancery at 2862 McGill Terrace NW, Washington, DC
    20008; telephone (202) 483-1407; the status of the Consulates General and
    Consulates has not yet been determined
  US:
    Ambassador Deane R. HINTON; Embassy at Avenida Balboa and Calle 38, Apartado
    6959, Panama City 5 (mailing address is Box E, APO AA 34002); telephone
    (507) 27-1777; FAX (507) 27-1964
Flag:
    divided into four, equal rectangles; the top quadrants are white with a blue
    five-pointed star in the center (hoist side) and plain red, the bottom
    quadrants are plain blue (hoist side) and white with a red five-pointed star
    in the center

:Panama Economy

Overview:
    GDP expanded by roughly 9.3% in 1991, following growth of 4.6% in 1990 and a
    0.4% contraction in 1989. Delay in coming to terms with the international
    financial institutions on policies to implement structural reform in Panama
    generated uncertainty in the private sector and tempered the pace of
    business expansion in 1991. Public investment was limited as the
    administration kept the fiscal deficit below 3% of GDP. Unemployment and
    economic reform are the two major issues the government must face in
    1992-93.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $5.0 billion, per capita $2,040; real growth rate
    9.3% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    2.0% (1991 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    17% (1991 est.)
Budget:
    revenues $1.5 billion; expenditures $1.7 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $140 million (1991 est.)
Exports:
    $380 million (f.o.b., 1991 est.)
  commodities:
    bananas 28%, shrimp 14%, sugar 12%, clothing 5%, coffee 4%
  partners:
    US 44%, Central America and Caribbean, EC (1991 est.)
Imports:
    $1.5 billion (f.o.b., 1991 est.)
  commodities:
    capital goods 13%, crude oil 12%, foodstuffs 10%, consumer goods, chemicals
    (1990)
  partners:
    US 37%, Japan, EC, Central America and Caribbean, Mexico, Venezuela (1989
    est.)
External debt:
    $5.4 billion (December 1991 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 7.2% (1991 est.); accounts for almost 9.4% of GDP
Electricity:
    1,135,000 kW capacity; 3,397 million kWh produced, 1,372 kWh per capita
    (1991)
Industries:
    manufacturing and construction activities, petroleum refining, brewing,
    cement and other construction material, sugar mills
Agriculture:
    accounts for 12% of GDP (1991 est.), 25% of labor force (1989); crops -
    bananas, rice, corn, coffee, sugarcane; livestock; fishing; importer of food
    grain, vegetables
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $516 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $582 million;
    Communist countries (1970-89), $4 million
Currency:
    balboa (plural - balboas); 1 balboa (B) = 100 centesimos
Exchange rates:
    balboas (B) per US$1 - 1.000 (fixed rate)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Panama Communications

Railroads:
    238 km total; 78 km 1.524-meter gauge, 160 km 0.914-meter gauge
Highways:
    8,530 km total; 2,745 km paved, 3,270 km gravel or crushed stone, 2,515 km
    improved and unimproved earth
Inland waterways:
    800 km navigable by shallow draft vessels; 82 km Panama Canal
Pipelines:
    crude oil 130 km
Ports:
    Cristobal, Balboa, Puerto de La Bahia de Las Minas
Merchant marine:
    3,004 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 41,314,623 GRT/73,325,176 DWT;
    includes 20 passenger, 22 short-sea passenger, 3 passenger-cargo, 1,046
    cargo, 205 refrigerated cargo, 175 container, 65 roll-on/roll-off cargo, 111
    vehicle carrier, 9 livestock carrier, 4 multifunction large-load carrier,
    340 petroleum tanker, 177 chemical tanker, 23 combination ore/oil, 101
    liquefied gas, 8 specialized tanker, 659 bulk, 35 combination bulk, 1 barge
    carrier; note - all but 5 are foreign owned and operated; the top 4 foreign
    owners are Japan 36%, Greece 8%, Hong Kong 8%, and the US 7%; (China owns at
    least 128 ships, Vietnam 4, former Yugoslavia 4, Cuba 4, Cyprus 5, and the
    republics of the former USSR 12)
Civil air:
    5 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    112 total, 102 usable; 39 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 2 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 15 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    domestic and international facilities well developed; connection into
    Central American Microwave System; 220,000 telephones; broadcast stations -
    91 AM, no FM, 23 TV; 1 coaxial submarine cable; satellite ground stations -
    2 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT

:Panama Defense Forces

Branches:
    note - the Panamanian Defense Forces (PDF) ceased to exist as a military
    institution shortly after the United States invaded Panama on 20 December
    1989; President ENDARA has restructured the forces into a civilian police
    service under the new name of Panamanian Public Forces (PPF); a Council of
    Public Security and National Defense under Menalco SOLIS in the office of
    the president coordinates the activities of the security forces; the
    Institutional Protection Service under Carlos BARES is attached to the
    presidency
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 661,101; 455,412 fit for military service; no conscription
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $75.5 million, 1.5% of GDP (1990)

:Papua New Guinea Geography

Total area:
    461,690 km2
Land area:
    451,710 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than California
Land boundaries:
    820 km; Indonesia 820 km
Coastline:
    5,152 km
Maritime claims:
    (measured from claimed archipelagic baselines)
  Continental shelf:
    200 m (depth) or to depth of exploitation
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    tropical; northwest monsoon (December to March), southeast monsoon (May to
    October); slight seasonal temperature variation
Terrain:
    mostly mountains with coastal lowlands and rolling foothills
Natural resources:
    gold, copper, silver, natural gas, timber, oil potential
Land use:
    arable land NEGL%; permanent crops 1%; meadows and pastures NEGL%; forest
    and woodland 71%; other 28%
Environment:
    one of world's largest swamps along southwest coast; some active volcanos;
    frequent earthquakes
Note:
    shares island of New Guinea with Indonesia

:Papua New Guinea People

Population:
    4,006,509 (July 1992), growth rate 2.3% (1992)
Birth rate:
    34 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    11 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    67 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    55 years male, 56 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    4.9 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Papua New Guinean(s); adjective - Papua New Guinean
Ethnic divisions:
    predominantly Melanesian and Papuan; some Negrito, Micronesian, and
    Polynesian
Religions:
    Roman Catholic 22%, Lutheran 16%, Presbyterian/Methodist/London Missionary
    Society 8%, Anglican 5%, Evangelical Alliance 4%, Seventh-Day Adventist 1%,
    other Protestant sects 10%; indigenous beliefs 34%
Languages:
    715 indigenous languages; English spoken by 1-2%, pidgin English widespread,
    Motu spoken in Papua region
Literacy:
    52% (male 65%, female 38%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    NA
Organized labor:
    more than 50 trade unions, some with fewer than 20 members

:Papua New Guinea Government

Long-form name:
    Independent State of Papua New Guinea
Type:
    parliamentary democracy
Capital:
    Port Moresby
Administrative divisions:
    20 provinces; Central, Chimbu, Eastern Highlands, East New Britain, East
    Sepik, Enga, Gulf, Madang, Manus, Milne Bay, Morobe, National Capital, New
    Ireland, Northern, North Solomons, Sandaun, Southern Highlands, Western,
    Western Highlands, West New Britain
Independence:
    16 September 1975 (from UN trusteeship under Australian administration)
Constitution:
    16 September 1975
Legal system:
    based on English common law
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 16 September (1975)
Executive branch:
    British monarch, governor general, prime minister, deputy prime minister,
    National Executive Council (cabinet)
Legislative branch:
    unicameral National Parliament (sometimes referred to as the House of
    Assembly)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Queen Elizabeth II (since 6 February 1952), represented by Governor General
    Wiwa KOROWI (since NA November 1991)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Paias WINGTI (since 17 July 1992)
Political parties and leaders:
    Papua New Guinea United Party (Pangu Party), Rabbie NAMALIU; People's
    Democratic Movement (PDM), Paias WINGTI; People's Action Party (PAP), Akoka
    DOI; People's Progress Party (PPP), Sir Julius CHAN; United Party (UP), Paul
    TORATO; Papua Party (PP), Galeva KWARARA; National Party (NP), Paul PORA;
    Melanesian Alliance (MA), Fr. John MOMIS
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  National Parliament:
    last held 13-26 June 1992 (next to be held NA 1997); results - percent by
    party NA; seats - (109 total) Pangu Party 24, PDM 17, PPP 10, PAP 10,
    independents 30, others 18
Member of:
    ACP, AsDB, ASEAN (observer), C, CP, ESCAP, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU,
    IDA, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, ISO, ITU, LORCS, NAM
    (observer), SPC, SPF, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WHO, WMO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Margaret TAYLOR; Chancery at 3rd floor, 1615 New Hampshire Avenue
    NW, Washington, DC 20009; telephone (202) 745-3680
  US:
    Ambassador Robert W. FARRAND; Embassy at Armit Street, Port Moresby (mailing
    address is P. O. Box 1492, Port Moresby, or APO AE 96553); telephone [675]
    211-455 or 594, 654; FAX [675] 213-423

:Papua New Guinea Government

Flag:
    divided diagonally from upper hoist-side corner; the upper triangle is red
    with a soaring yellow bird of paradise centered; the lower triangle is black
    with five white five-pointed stars of the Southern Cross constellation
    centered

:Papua New Guinea Economy

Overview:
    Papua New Guinea is richly endowed with natural resources, but exploitation
    has been hampered by the rugged terrain and the high cost of developing an
    infrastructure. Agriculture provides a subsistence livelihood for 85% of the
    population. Mining of numerous deposits, including copper and gold, accounts
    for about 60% of export earnings. Budgetary support from Australia and
    development aid under World Bank auspices have helped sustain the economy.
    Robust growth in 1991 was led by the mining sector; the opening of a large
    new gold mine featured in the advance.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $3.1 billion, per capita $800; real growth rate
    9% (1991)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    6.8% (first half 1991)
Unemployment rate:
    5% (1988)
Budget:
    revenues $1.26 billion; expenditures $1.46 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $273 million (1992 est.)
Exports:
    $1.14 billion (f.o.b., 1990)
  commodities:
    copper ore, gold, coffee, logs, palm oil, cocoa, lobster
  partners:
    FRG, Japan, Australia, UK, Spain, US
Imports:
    $1.18 billion (c.i.f., 1990)
  commodities:
    machinery and transport equipment, food, fuels, chemicals, consumer goods
  partners:
    Australia, Singapore, Japan, US, New Zealand, UK
External debt:
    $2.2 billion (April 1991)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 2.4% (1990 est.); accounts for 25% of GDP
Electricity:
    397,000 kW capacity; 1,510 million kWh produced, 400 kWh per capita (1990)
Industries:
    copra crushing, oil palm processing, plywood processing, wood chip
    production, gold, silver, copper, construction, tourism
Agriculture:
    one-third of GDP; livelihood for 85% of population; fertile soils and
    favorable climate permits cultivating a wide variety of crops; cash crops -
    coffee, cocoa, coconuts, palm kernels; other products - tea, rubber, sweet
    potatoes, fruit, vegetables, poultry, pork; net importer of food for urban
    centers
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $40.6 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $6.5 billion; OPEC
    bilateral aid (1979-89), $17 million
Currency:
    kina (plural - kina); 1 kina (K) = 100 toea
Exchange rates:
    kina (K) per US$1 - 1.0413 (March 1992), 1.0508 (1991), 1.0467 (1990),
    1.1685 (1989), 1.1538 (1988), 1.1012 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Papua New Guinea Communications

Railroads:
    none
Highways:
    19,200 km total; 640 km paved, 10,960 km gravel, crushed stone, or
    stabilized-soil surface, 7,600 km unimproved earth
Inland waterways:
    10,940 km
Ports:
    Anewa Bay, Lae, Madang, Port Moresby, Rabaul
Merchant marine:
    8 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 14,102 GRT/16,016 DWT; includes 2
    cargo, 1 roll-on/roll-off cargo, 3 combination ore/oil, 1 bulk, 1 container
Civil air:
    about 15 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    503 total, 460 usable; 18 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 1 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 39 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    services are adequate and being improved; facilities provide radiobroadcast,
    radiotelephone and telegraph, coastal radio, aeronautical radio, and
    international radiocommunication services; submarine cables extend to
    Australia and Guam; 51,700 telephones (1985); broadcast stations - 31 AM, 2
    FM, 2 TV (1987); 1 Pacific Ocean INTELSAT earth station

:Papua New Guinea Defense Forces

Branches:
    Papua New Guinea Defense Force (including Army, Navy, Air Force)
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 1,013,812; 564,081 fit for military service
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $42 million, 1.3% of GDP (1989 est.)

:Paracel Islands Geography

Total area:
    NA
Land area:
    undetermined
Comparative area:
    undetermined
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    518 km
Maritime claims:
    undetermined
Disputes:
    occupied by China, but claimed by Taiwan and Vietnam
Climate:
    tropical
Terrain:
    undetermined
Natural resources:
    none
Land use:
    arable land 0%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 0%; forest and
    woodland 0%; other 100%
Environment:
    subject to typhoons
Note:
    located 400 km east of Vietnam in the South China Sea about one-third of the
    way between Vietnam and the Philippines

:Paracel Islands People

Population:
    no permanent inhabitants

:Paracel Islands Government

Long-form name:
    none

:Paracel Islands Economy

Overview:
    no economic activity

:Paracel Islands Communications

Ports:
    small Chinese port facilities on Woody Island and Duncan Island currently
    under expansion
Airports:
    1 on Woody Island

:Paracel Islands Defense Forces

Note:
    occupied by China

:Paraguay Geography

Total area:
    406,750 km2
Land area:
    397,300 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than California
Land boundaries:
    3,920 km total; Argentina 1,880 km, Bolivia 750 km, Brazil 1,290 km
Coastline:
    none - landlocked
Maritime claims:
    none - landlocked
Disputes:
    short section of the boundary with Brazil (just west of Guaira Falls on the
    Rio Parana) has not been determined
Climate:
    varies from temperate in east to semiarid in far west
Terrain:
    grassy plains and wooded hills east of Rio Paraguay; Gran Chaco region west
    of Rio Paraguay mostly low, marshy plain near the river, and dry forest and
    thorny scrub elsewhere
Natural resources:
    iron ore, manganese, limestone, hydropower, timber
Land use:
    arable land 20%; permanent crops 1%; meadows and pastures 39%; forest and
    woodland 35%; other 5%; includes irrigated NEGL%
Environment:
    local flooding in southeast (early September to June); poorly drained plains
    may become boggy (early October to June)
Note:
    landlocked; buffer between Argentina and Brazil

:Paraguay People

Population:
    4,929,446 (July 1992), growth rate 2.9% (1992)
Birth rate:
    33 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    5 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    28 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    71 years male, 74 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    4.4 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Paraguayan(s); adjective - Paraguayan
Ethnic divisions:
    mestizo (Spanish and Indian) 95%, white and Indian 5%
Religions:
    Roman Catholic 90%; Mennonite and other Protestant denominations
Languages:
    Spanish (official) and Guarani
Literacy:
    90% (male 92%, female 88%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    1,418,000 (1991 est.); agriculture, industry and commerce, services,
    government (1986)
Organized labor:
    about 2% of labor force

:Paraguay Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Paraguay
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Asuncion
Administrative divisions:
    19 departments (departamentos, singular - departamento); Alto Paraguay, Alto
    Parana, Amambay, Boqueron, Caaguazu, Caazapa, Canindeyu, Central, Chaco,
    Concepcion, Cordillera, Guaira, Itapua, Misiones, Neembucu, Nueva Asuncion,
    Paraguari, Presidente Hayes, San Pedro
Independence:
    14 May 1811 (from Spain)
Constitution:
    25 August 1967; Constituent Assembly rewrote the Constitution that was
    promulgated on 20 June 1992
Legal system:
    based on Argentine codes, Roman law, and French codes; judicial review of
    legislative acts in Supreme Court of Justice; does not accept compulsory ICJ
    jurisdiction
National holiday:
    Independence Days, 14-15 May (1811)
Executive branch:
    president, Council of Ministers (cabinet), Council of State
Legislative branch:
    bicameral Congress (Congreso) consists of an upper chamber or Chamber of
    Senators (Camara de Senadores) and a lower chamber or Chamber of Deputies
    (Camara de Diputados)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court of Justice (Corte Suprema de Justicia)
Leaders:
  Chief of State and Head of Government:
    President Gen. Andres RODRIGUEZ Pedotti (since 15 May 1989)
Political parties and leaders:
    Colorado Party, Luis Maria ARGANA, acting president; Authentic Radical
    Liberal Party (PLRA), Juan Manuel BENITEZ Florentin; Christian Democratic
    Party (PDC), Jose Angel BURRO; Febrerista Revolutionary Party (PRF), Victor
    BAREIRO; Popular Democratic Party (PDP), Hugo RICHER
Suffrage:
    universal and compulsory at age 18 and up to age 60
Elections:
  President:
    last held 1 May 1989 (next to be held NA February 1993); results - Gen.
    RODRIGUEZ 75.8%, Domingo LAINO 19.4%
  Chamber of Senators:
    last held 1 May 1989 (next to be held by NA May 1993); results - percent of
    vote by party NA; seats - (36 total) Colorado Party 24, PLRA 10, PLR 1, PRF
    1
  Chamber of Deputies:
    last held on 1 May 1989 (next to be held by NA May 1994); results - percent
    of vote by party NA; seats - (72 total) Colorado Party 48, PLRA 19, PRF 2,
    PDC 1, other 2
Communists:
    Oscar CREYDT faction and Miguel Angel SOLER faction (both illegal); 3,000 to
    4,000 (est.) party members and sympathizers in Paraguay, very few are hard
    core; party beginning to return from exile is small and deeply divided
Other political or pressure groups:
    Confederation of Workers (CUT); Roman Catholic Church

:Paraguay Government

Member of:
    AG (observer), CCC, ECLAC, FAO, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, IDA, IFAD,
    IFC, ILO, IMF, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, IOM, ITU, LAES, LAIA, LORCS, OAS,
    OPANAL, PCA, RG, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WHO, WIPO, WMO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Juan Esteban Aguirre MARTINEZ; Chancery at 2400 Massachusetts
    Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 483-6960 through 6962;
    there are Paraguayan Consulates General in New Orleans and New York, and a
    Consulate in Houston
  US:
    Ambassador Jon D. GLASSMAN; Embassy at 1776 Avenida Mariscal Lopez, Asuncion
    (mailing address is C. P. 402, Asuncion, or APO AA 34036-0001); telephone
    [595] (21) 213-715; FAX [595] (21) 213-728
Flag:
    three equal, horizontal bands of red (top), white, and blue with an emblem
    centered in the white band; unusual flag in that the emblem is different on
    each side; the obverse (hoist side at the left) bears the national coat of
    arms (a yellow five-pointed star within a green wreath capped by the words
    REPUBLICA DEL PARAGUAY, all within two circles); the reverse (hoist side at
    the right) bears the seal of the treasury (a yellow lion below a red Cap of
    Liberty and the words Paz y Justicia (Peace and Justice) capped by the words
    REPUBLICA DEL PARAGUAY, all within two circles)

:Paraguay Economy

Overview:
    Agriculture, including forestry, accounts for about 25% of GDP, employs
    about 45% of the labor force, and provides the bulk of exports. Paraguay has
    no known significant mineral or petroleum resources but does have a large
    hydropower potential. Since 1981 economic performance has declined compared
    with the boom period of 1976-81, when real GDP grew at an average annual
    rate of nearly 11%. During the period 1982-86 real GDP fell in three of five
    years, inflation jumped to an annual rate of 32%, and foreign debt rose.
    Factors responsible for the erratic behavior of the economy were the
    completion of the Itaipu hydroelectric dam, bad weather for crops, and weak
    international commodity prices for agricultural exports. In 1987 the economy
    experienced a minor recovery because of improved weather conditions and
    stronger international prices for key agricultural exports. The recovery
    continued through 1990, on the strength of bumper crops in 1988-89. In a
    major step to increase its economic activity in the region, Paraguay in
    March 1991 joined the Southern Cone Common Market (MERCOSUR), which includes
    Brazil, Argentina, and Uruguay. During 1991 the government began to more
    seriously address its arrearages with international creditors and its
    domestic fiscal problems. Inflation was cut in third, but the foreign trade
    deficit widened to more than $1 billion. For the long run, the government
    must press forward with general market-oriented economic reforms.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $7.0 billion, per capita $1,460; real growth rate
    3.0% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    15% (1991 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    14% (1991 est.)
Budget:
    revenues $1.2 billion; expenditures $1.2 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $487 million (1991)
Exports:
    $642 million (f.o.b., 1991)
  commodities:
    cotton, soybean, timber, vegetable oils, coffee, tung oil, meat products
  partners:
    EC 37%, Brazil 25%, Argentina 10%, Chile 6%, US 6%
Imports:
    $1.85 billion (c.i.f., 1991)
  commodities:
    capital goods 35%, consumer goods 20%, fuels and lubricants 19%, raw
    materials 16%, foodstuffs, beverages, and tobacco 10%
  partners:
    Brazil 30%, EC 20%, US 18%, Argentina 8%, Japan 7%
External debt:
    $1.7 billion (1991 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 5.9% (1989 est.); accounts for 16% of GDP
Electricity:
    5,578,000 kW capacity; 15,447 million kWh produced, 3,219 kWh per capita
    (1991)
Industries:
    meat packing, oilseed crushing, milling, brewing, textiles, other light
    consumer goods, cement, construction
Agriculture:
    accounts for 25% of GDP and 44% of labor force; cash crops - cotton,
    sugarcane; other crops - corn, wheat, tobacco, soybeans, cassava, fruits,
    and vegetables; animal products - beef, pork, eggs, milk; surplus producer
    of timber; self-sufficient in most foods

:Paraguay Economy

Illicit drugs:
    illicit producer of cannabis for the international drug trade; important
    transshipment point for Bolivian cocaine headed for the US and Europe
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $172 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $1.1 billion
Currency:
    guarani (plural - guaranies); 1 guarani (G) = 100 centimos
Exchange rates:
    guaranies (G) per US$ - 1,447.5 (March 1992), 1,325.2 (1991), 1,229.8
    (1990), 1,056.2 (1989), 550.00 (fixed rate 1986-February 1989),
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Paraguay Communications

Railroads:
    970 km total; 440 km 1.435-meter standard gauge, 60 km 1.000-meter gauge,
    470 km various narrow gauge (privately owned)
Highways:
    21,960 km total; 1,788 km paved, 474 km gravel, and 19,698 km earth
Inland waterways:
    3,100 km
Ports:
    Asuncion
Merchant marine:
    13 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 16,747 GRT/19,865 DWT; includes 11
    cargo, 2 petroleum tanker; note - 1 naval cargo ship is sometimes used
    commercially
Civil air:
    9 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    845 total, 716 usable; 7 with permanent-surface runways; 0 with runways over
    3,659 m; 3 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 66 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    principal center in Asuncion; fair intercity microwave net; 78,300
    telephones; broadcast stations - 40 AM, no FM, 5 TV, 7 shortwave; 1 Atlantic
    Ocean INTELSAT earth station

:Paraguay Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Navy (including Naval Air and Marines), Air Force
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 1,172,813; 853,129 fit for military service; 49,917 reach
    military age (17) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $84 million, 1.4% of GDP (1988 est.)

:Peru Geography

Total area:
    1,285,220 km2
Land area:
    1,280,000 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than Alaska
Land boundaries:
    6,940 km total; Bolivia 900 km, Brazil 1,560 km, Chile 160 km, Colombia
    2,900 km, Ecuador 1,420 km
Coastline:
    2,414 km
Maritime claims:
  Territorial sea:
    200 nm
Disputes:
    three sections of the boundary with Ecuador are in dispute
Climate:
    varies from tropical in east to dry desert in west
Terrain:
    western coastal plain (costa), high and rugged Andes in center (sierra),
    eastern lowland jungle of Amazon Basin (selva)
Natural resources:
    copper, silver, gold, petroleum, timber, fish, iron ore, coal, phosphate,
    potash
Land use:
    arable land 3%; permanent crops NEGL%; meadows and pastures 21%; forest and
    woodland 55%; other 21%; includes irrigated 1%
Environment:
    subject to earthquakes, tsunamis, landslides, mild volcanic activity;
    deforestation; overgrazing; soil erosion; desertification; air pollution in
    Lima
Note:
    shares control of Lago Titicaca, world's highest navigable lake, with
    Bolivia

:Peru People

Population:
    22,767,543 (July 1992), growth rate 2.0% (1992)
Birth rate:
    27 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    7 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    59 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    63 years male, 67 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    3.3 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Peruvian(s); adjective - Peruvian
Ethnic divisions:
    Indian 45%; mestizo (mixed Indian and European ancestry) 37%; white 15%;
    black, Japanese, Chinese, and other 3%
Religions:
    predominantly Roman Catholic
Languages:
    Spanish and Quechua (both official), Aymara
Literacy:
    85% (male 92%, female 29%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    6,800,000 (1986); government and other services 44%, agriculture 37%,
    industry 19% (1988 est.)
Organized labor:
    about 40% of salaried workers (1983 est.)

:Peru Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Peru
Type:
    in transition, President FUJIMORI on 5 April 1992 suspended the constitution
    and dissolved the legislative and judicial branches
Capital:
    Lima
Administrative divisions:
    24 departments (departamentos, singular - departamento) and 1 constitutional
    province* (provincia constitucional); Amazonas, Ancash, Apurimac, Arequipa,
    Ayacucho, Cajamarca, Callao*, Cusco, Huancavelica, Huanuco, Ica, Junin, La
    Libertad, Lambayeque, Lima, Loreto, Madre de Dios, Moquegua, Pasco, Piura,
    Puno, San Martin, Tacna, Tumbes, Ucayali; note - the 1979 Constitution and
    legislation enacted from 1987 to 1990 mandate the creation of regions
    (regiones, singular - region) intended to function eventually as autonomous
    economic and administrative entities; so far, 12 regions have been
    constituted from 23 existing departments - Amazonas (from Loreto), Andres
    Avelino Caceres (from Huanuco, Pasco, Junin), Arequipa (from Arequipa),
    Chavin (from Ancash), Grau (from Tumbes, Piura), Inca (from Cusco, Madre de
    Dios, Apurimac), La Libertad (from La Libertad), Los Libertadores-Huari
    (from Ica, Ayacucho, Huancavelica), Mariategui (from Moquegua, Tacna, Puno),
    Nor Oriental del Maranon (from Lambayeque, Cajamarca, Amazonas), San Martin
    (from San Martin), Ucayali (from Ucayali); formation of another region has
    been delayed by the reluctance of the constitutional province of Callao to
    merge with the department of Lima; because of inadequate funding from the
    central government, the regions have yet to assume their responsibilities
    and at the moment coexist with the departmental structure
Independence:
    28 July 1821 (from Spain)
Constitution:
    28 July 1980 (often referred to as the 1979 Constitution because the
    Constituent Assembly met in 1979, but the Constitution actually took effect
    the following year); suspended 5 April 1992
Legal system:
    based on civil law system; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 28 July (1821)
Executive branch:
    president, two vice presidents (vacant as of 19 May 1992), prime minister,
    Council of Ministers (cabinet)
Legislative branch:
    bicameral Congress (Congreso) consists of an upper chamber or Senate
    (Senado) and a lower chamber or Chamber of Deputies (Camara de Diputados);
    note - dissolved on 5 April 1992; being reconstituted
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court of Justice (Corte Suprema de Justicia)
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Alberto FUJIMORI (since 28 July 1990); note - slots for first and
    second Vice Presidents vacant as of 19 May 1992
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Oscar DE LA PUENTE Raygada (since 6 April 1992)

:Peru Government

Political parties and leaders:
    Change 90 (Cambio 90), Alberto FUJIMORI; Popular Christian Party (PPC), Luis
    BEDOYA Reyes; Popular Action Party (AP), Eduardo CALMELL del Solar; Liberty
    Movement (ML), Luis BUSTAMANTE; American Popular Revolutionary Alliance
    (APRA), Luis ALVA Castro, Alan GARCIA; National Front of Workers and
    Peasants (FNTC), Roger CACERES; United Left (IU), leader NA; Independent
    Moralizing Front (FIM), Fernando OLIVERA Vega; Socialist Left (IS), leader
    NA; note - Democratic Front (FREDEMO) was a loosely organized coalition of
    the PPC, AP, and ML during the 8 April 1990 elections, but the parties no
    longer maintain a formal alliance
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  President:
    last held on 10 June 1990 (next to be held NA April 1995); results - Alberto
    FUJIMORI 56.53%, Mario VARGAS Llosa 33.92%, other 9.55%
  Senate:
    last held on 8 April 1990; dissolved on 5 April 1992; because of suspension
    of constitutional role, next election not yet scheduled; results - percent
    of vote by party NA; seats - (62 total; 60 elected, 2 ex-presidents who are
    senators for life) FREDEMO 20, APRA 16, Change 90 14, IU 6, IS 3, FNTC 1;
    note - as a result of the dissolution of FREDEMO and defections and
    expulsions from the various parties, the seats have been reallocated: APRA
    17, Change 90 13, AP 8, IU 6, PPC 5, ML 4, IS 3, FNTC 1, independents 4,
    other 1 (January 1992)
  Chamber of Deputies:
    last held 8 April 1990 dissolved on 5 April 1992; because of suspension of
    constitutional role, next election not yet scheduled; results - percent of
    vote by party NA; seats - (180 total) FREDEMO 62, APRA 53, Change 90 32, IU
    16, IS 4, FNTC 3, other 10; note - as a result of the dissolution of FREDEMO
    and defections and expulsions from the various parties, the seats have been
    reallocated: APRA 53, AP 25, Change 90 25, PPC 23, IU 16, ML 7, FIM 3, IS 4,
    FNTC 3, independents 15, other 4, and 2 currently nonvoting deputies
Communists:
    Peruvian Communist Party-Unity (PCP-U), 2,000; other minor Communist parties
Other political or pressure groups:
  leftist guerrilla groups:
    Shining Path, Abimael GUZMAN; Tupac Amaru Revolutionary Movement, Nestor
    SERPA and Victor POLAY
Member of:
    AG, CCC, ECLAC, FAO, G-11, G-19, G-24, G-77, GATT, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
    ICFTU, IDA, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INMARSAT, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC,
    IOM, ISO, ITU, LAES, LAIA, LORCS, NAM, OAS, OPANAL, PCA, RG, UN, UNCTAD,
    UNESCO, UNIDO, UNIIMOG, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador vacant; Chancery at 1700 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC
    20036; telephone (202) 833-9860 through 9869); Peruvian Consulates General
    are located in Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami, New York, Paterson (New
    Jersey), San Francisco, and San Juan (Puerto Rico)
  US:
    Ambassador Anthony C. E. QUAINTON; Embassy at the corner of Avenida Inca
    Garcilaso de la Vega and Avenida Espana, Lima (mailing address is P. O. Box
    1991, Lima 1, or APO AA 34031); telephone [51] (14) 33-8000; FAX [51] (14)
    316682
Flag:
    three equal, vertical bands of red (hoist side), white, and red with the
    coat of arms centered in the white band; the coat of arms features a shield
    bearing a llama, cinchona tree (the source of quinine), and a yellow
    cornucopia spilling out gold coins, all framed by a green wreath

:Peru Economy

Overview:
    The Peruvian economy is becoming increasingly market oriented, with a large
    dose of government ownership remaining in mining, energy, and banking. In
    the 1980s the economy suffered from hyperinflation, declining per capita
    output, and mounting external debt. Peru was shut off from IMF and World
    Bank support in the mid-1980s because of its huge debt arrears. An austerity
    program implemented shortly after the FUJIMORI government took office in
    July 1990 contributed to a third consecutive yearly contraction of economic
    activity, but the slide halted late in the year, and output rose 2.4% in
    1991. After a burst of inflation as the austerity program eliminated
    government price subsidies, monthly price increases eased to the
    single-digit level and by December 1991 dropped to the lowest increase since
    mid-1987. Lima obtained a financial rescue package from multilateral lenders
    in September 1991, and, although it faces $14 billion in arrears on its
    external debt, is working to pay some $1.8 billion of these to the IMF and
    World Bank by 1993.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $20.6 billion, per capita $920; real growth rate
    2.4% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    139% (1991)
Unemployment rate:
    15.0%; underemployment 65% (1991 est.)
Budget:
    revenues $1.7 billion; expenditures $1.8 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $250 million (1991 est.)
Exports:
    $3.3 billion (f.o.b., 1991 est.)
  commodities:
    copper, fishmeal, zinc, crude petroleum and byproducts, lead, refined
    silver, coffee, cotton
  partners:
    EC 28%, US 22%, Japan 13%, Latin America 12%, former USSR 2%
Imports:
    $3.5 billion (f.o.b., 1991 est.)
  commodities:
    foodstuffs, machinery, transport equipment, iron and steel semimanufactures,
    chemicals, pharmaceuticals
  partners:
    US 32%, Latin America 22%, EC 17%, Switzerland 6%, Japan 3%
External debt:
    $19.4 billion (December 1991 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 1.0% (1991 est.); accounts for almost 24% of GDP
Electricity:
    4,896,000 kW capacity; 15,851 million kWh produced, 709 kWh per capita
    (1991)
Industries:
    mining of metals, petroleum, fishing, textiles, clothing, food processing,
    cement, auto assembly, steel, shipbuilding, metal fabrication
Agriculture:
    accounts for 10% of GDP, about 35% of labor force; commercial crops -
    coffee, cotton, sugarcane; other crops - rice, wheat, potatoes, plantains,
    coca; animal products - poultry, red meats, dairy, wool; not self-sufficient
    in grain or vegetable oil; fish catch of 6.9 million metric tons (1990)

:Peru Economy

Illicit drugs:
    world's largest coca leaf producer with about 121,000 hectares under
    cultivation; source of supply for most of the world's coca paste and cocaine
    base; at least 85% of coca cultivation is for illicit production; most of
    cocaine base is shipped to Colombian drug dealers for processing into
    cocaine for the international drug market
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $1.7 billion; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $4.3 billion;
    Communist countries (1970-89), $577 million
Currency:
    (S/.) nuevo sol (plural - nuevos soles); 1 nuevo sol (S/.) = 100 centavos
Exchange rates:
    nuevo sol (S/. per US$1 - 0.960 (March 1992), 0.772 (1991), 0.187 (1990),
    2.666 (1989), 0.129 (1988), 0.017 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Peru Communications

Railroads:
    1,801 km total; 1,501 km 1.435-meter gauge, 300 km 0.914-meter gauge
Highways:
    69,942 km total; 7,459 km paved, 13,538 km improved, 48,945 km unimproved
    earth
Inland waterways:
    8,600 km of navigable tributaries of Amazon system and 208 km Lago Titicaca
Pipelines:
    crude oil 800 km, natural gas and natural gas liquids 64 km
Ports:
    Callao, Ilo, Iquitos, Matarani, Talara
Merchant marine:
    26 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 286,313 GRT/461,233 DWT; includes 14
    cargo, 1 refrigerated cargo, 1 roll-on/roll-off cargo, 3 petroleum tanker, 7
    bulk; note - in addition, 8 naval tankers and 1 naval cargo are sometimes
    used commercially
Civil air:
    44 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    221 total, 201 usable; 36 with permanent-surface runways; 2 with runways
    over 3,659 m; 23 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 43 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    fairly adequate for most requirements; nationwide microwave system; 544,000
    telephones; broadcast stations - 273 AM, no FM, 140 TV, 144 shortwave;
    satellite earth stations - 2 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT, 12 domestic

:Peru Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army (Ejercito Peruano), Navy (Marina de Guerra del Peru), Air Force (Fuerza
    Aerea del Peru), National Police
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 5,863,227; 3,964,930 fit for military service; 236,484 reach
    military age (20) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $430 million, 2.4% of GDP (1991)

:Philippines Geography

Total area:
    300,000 km2
Land area:
    298,170 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than Arizona
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    36,289 km
Maritime claims:
    (measured from claimed archipelagic baselines)
  Continental shelf:
    to depth of exploitation
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    irregular polygon extending up to 100 nm from coastline as defined by 1898
    treaty; since late 1970s has also claimed polygonal-shaped area in South
    China Sea up to 285 nm in breadth
Disputes:
    involved in a complex dispute over the Spratly Islands with China, Malaysia,
    Taiwan, Vietnam, and possibly Brunei; claims Malaysian state of Sabah
Climate:
    tropical marine; northeast monsoon (November to April); southwest monsoon
    (May to October)
Terrain:
    mostly mountains with narrow to extensive coastal lowlands
Natural resources:
    timber, crude oil, nickel, cobalt, silver, gold, salt, copper
Land use:
    arable land 26%; permanent crops 11%; meadows and pastures 4%; forest and
    woodland 40%; other 19%; includes irrigated 5%
Environment:
    astride typhoon belt, usually affected by 15 and struck by five to six
    cyclonic storms per year; subject to landslides, active volcanoes,
    destructive earthquakes, tsunami; deforestation; soil erosion; water
    pollution

:Philippines People

Population:
    67,114,060 (July 1992), growth rate 2.0% (1992)
Birth rate:
    28 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    7 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    -1 migrant/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    53 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    62 years male, 68 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    3.5 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Filipino(s); adjective - Philippine
Ethnic divisions:
    Christian Malay 91.5%, Muslim Malay 4%, Chinese 1.5%, other 3%
Religions:
    Roman Catholic 83%, Protestant 9%, Muslim 5%, Buddhist and other 3%
Languages:
    Pilipino (based on Tagalog) and English; both official
Literacy:
    90% (male 90%, female 90%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    24,120,000; agriculture 46%, industry and commerce 16%, services 18.5%,
    government 10%, other 9.5% (1989)
Organized labor:
    3,945 registered unions; total membership 5.7 million (includes 2.8 million
    members of the National Congress of Farmers Organizations)

:Philippines Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of the Philippines
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Manila
Administrative divisions:
    72 provinces and 61 chartered cities*; Abra, Agusan del Norte, Agusan del
    Sur, Aklan, Albay, Angeles*, Antique, Aurora, Bacolod*, Bago*, Baguio*,
    Bais*, Basilan, Basilan City*, Bataan, Batanes, Batangas, Batangas City*,
    Benguet, Bohol, Bukidnon, Bulacan, Butuan*, Cabanatuan*, Cadiz*, Cagayan,
    Cagayan de Oro*, Calbayog*, Caloocan*, Camarines Norte, Camarines Sur,
    Camiguin, Canlaon*, Capiz, Catanduanes, Cavite, Cavite City*, Cebu, Cebu
    City*, Cotabato*, Dagupan*, Danao*, Dapitan*, Davao City* Davao, Davao del
    Sur, Davao Oriental, Dipolog*, Dumaguete*, Eastern Samar, General Santos*,
    Gingoog*, Ifugao, Iligan*, Ilocos Norte, Ilocos Sur, Iloilo, Iloilo City*,
    Iriga*, Isabela, Kalinga-Apayao, La Carlota*, Laguna, Lanao del Norte, Lanao
    del Sur, Laoag*, Lapu-Lapu*, La Union, Legaspi*, Leyte, Lipa*, Lucena*,
    Maguindanao, Mandaue*, Manila*, Marawi*, Marinduque, Masbate, Mindoro
    Occidental, Mindoro Oriental, Misamis Occidental, Misamis Oriental,
    Mountain, Naga*, Negros Occidental, Negros Oriental, North Cotabato,
    Northern Samar, Nueva Ecija, Nueva Vizcaya, Olongapo*, Ormoc*, Oroquieta*,
    Ozamis*, Pagadian*, Palawan, Palayan*, Pampanga, Pangasinan, Pasay*, Puerto
    Princesa*, Quezon, Quezon City*, Quirino, Rizal, Romblon, Roxas*, Samar, San
    Carlos* (in Negros Occidental), San Carlos* (in Pangasinan), San Jose*, San
    Pablo*, Silay*, Siquijor, Sorsogon, South Cotabato, Southern Leyte, Sultan
    Kudarat, Sulu, Surigao*, Surigao del Norte, Surigao del Sur, Tacloban*,
    Tagaytay*, Tagbilaran*, Tangub*, Tarlac, Tawitawi, Toledo*, Trece Martires*,
    Zambales, Zamboanga*, Zamboanga del Norte, Zamboanga del Sur
Independence:
    4 July 1946 (from US)
Constitution:
    2 February 1987, effective 11 February 1987
Legal system:
    based on Spanish and Anglo-American law; accepts compulsory ICJ
    jurisdiction, with reservations
National holiday:
    Independence Day (from Spain), 12 June (1898)
Executive branch:
    president, vice president, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    bicameral Congress (Kongreso) consists of an upper house or Senate (Senado)
    and a lower house or House of Representatives (Kapulungan Ng Mga Kinatawan)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State and Head of Government:
    President Corazon C. AQUINO (since 25 February 1986); Vice President
    Salvador H. LAUREL (since 25 February 1986)
Political parties and leaders:
    Alliance of Philippine Democrats (LDP), Neptali GONZALES and Jose (Peping)
    COJUANGCO; Nationalist People's Coalition (NPC), Fidel Valdes RAMOS; Liberal
    Party, Jovito SALONGA; New Society Movement (KBL), Amelda MARCOS
Suffrage:
    universal at age 15
Elections:
  President:
    last held 11 May 1992 (next election to be held NA May 1998);results - Fidel
    Valdes RAMOS won 23.6% of votes, a narrow plurality

:Philippines Government

  Senate:
    last held 11 May 1992 (next election to be held NA May 1998); results - LDP
    66%, NPC 20%, Lakas-NUCD 8%, Liberal 6%; seats - (24 total) LDP 24, NPC 5,
    Lakas-NUCD 2, Liberal 1
Elections:
  House of Representatives:
    last held 11 May 1992 (next election to be held NA May 1998); results - LDP
    43.5%; Lakas-NUCD 25%, NPC 23.5%, Liberal 5%, KBL 3%;seats - (200 total) LDP
    87, Lakas-NUCD 51, NPC 47, Liberal 10, KBL 5
Communists:
    the Communist Party of the Philippines (CPP) controls about 15,500-16,500
    full-time insurgents and is not recognized as a legal party; a second
    Communist party, Philippine Communist Party (PKP), has quasi-legal status
Member of:
    APEC, AsDB, ASEAN, CCC, CP, ESCAP, FAO, G-24, G-77, GATT, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
    ICFTU, IDA, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INMARSAT, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC,
    IOM, ISO, ITU, LORCS, NAM (observer), UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL,
    WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Emmanuel PELAEZ; Chancery at 1617 Massachusetts Avenue NW,
    Washington, DC 20036; telephone (202) 483-1414; there are Philippine
    Consulates General in Agana (Guam), Chicago, Honolulu, Houston, Los Angeles,
    New York, San Francisco, and Seattle
  US:
    Ambassador Frank G. WISNER II; Embassy at 1201 Roxas Boulevard, Manila
    (mailing address is APO AP 96440); telephone [63] (2) 521-7116; FAX [63] (2)
    522-4361; there is a US Consulate in Cebu
Flag:
    two equal horizontal bands of blue (top) and red with a white equilateral
    triangle based on the hoist side; in the center of the triangle is a yellow
    sun with eight primary rays (each containing three individual rays) and in
    each corner of the triangle is a small yellow five-pointed star

:Philippines Economy

Overview:
    Following the recession of 1984-85, the Philippine economy grew on the
    average of 5.0% per year during 1986-89. It slowed again during the period
    1990-91. The agricultural sector together with forestry and fishing, plays
    an important role in the economy, employing about 45% of the work force and
    providing almost 30% of GDP. The Philippines is the world's largest exporter
    of coconuts and coconut products. Manufacturing contributes about 35% of
    GDP. Major industries include food processing, chemicals, and textiles.
GNP:
    exchange rate conversion - $47 billion, per capita $720; real growth rate
    0.1% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    17.6% (1991 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    10.0% (1991 est.)
Budget:
    $8.4 billion; expenditures $9.36 billion, including capital expenditures of
    $1.8 billion (1991 est.)
Exports:
    $8.7 billion (f.o.b., 1991 est.)
  commodities:
    electrical equipment 19%, textiles 16%, minerals and ores 11%, farm products
    10%, coconut 10%, chemicals 5%, fish 5%, forest products 4%
  partners:
    US 36%, EC 19%, Japan 18%, ESCAP 9%, ASEAN 7%
Imports:
    $12.3 billion (c.i.f., 1991)
  commodities:
    raw materials 53%, capital goods 17%, petroleum products 17%
  partners:
    US 25%, Japan 17%, ESCAP 13%, EC 11%, ASEAN 10%, Middle East 10%
External debt:
    $28.9 billion (1991)
Industrial production:
    growth rate - 5% (1991 est.); accounts for 35% of GNP
Electricity:
    7,500,000 kW capacity; 31,000 million kWh produced, 470 kWh per capita
    (1991)
Industries:
    textiles, pharmaceuticals, chemicals, wood products, food processing,
    electronics assembly, petroleum refining, fishing
Agriculture:
    accounts for about one-third of GNP and 45% of labor force; major crops -
    rice, coconut, corn, sugarcane, bananas, pineapple, mango; animal products -
    pork, eggs, beef; net exporter of farm products; fish catch of 2 million
    metric tons annually
Illicit drugs:
    illicit producer of cannabis for the international drug trade; growers are
    producing more and better quality cannabis despite government eradication
    efforts
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $3.6 billion; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-88), $7.9 billion; OPEC
    bilateral aid (1979-89), $5 million; Communist countries (1975-89), $123
    million
Currency:
    Philippine peso (plural - pesos); 1 Philippine peso (P) = 100 centavos

:Philippines Economy

Exchange rates:
    Philippine pesos (P) per US$1 - 25.810 (March 1992), 27.479 (1991), 24.311
    (1990), 21.737 (1989), 21.095 (1988), 20.568 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Philippines Communications

Railroads:
    378 km operable on Luzon, 34% government owned (1982)
Highways:
    156,000 km total (1984); 29,000 km paved; 77,000 km gravel, crushed-stone,
    or stabilized-soil surface; 50,000 km unimproved earth
Inland waterways:
    3,219 km; limited to shallow-draft (less than 1.5 m) vessels
Pipelines:
    petroleum products 357 km
Ports:
    Cagayan de Oro, Cebu, Davao, Guimaras, Iloilo, Legaspi, Manila, Subic Bay
Merchant marine:
    552 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 8,150,425 GRT/13,624,527 DWT;
    includes 1 passenger, 11 short-sea passenger, 13 passenger-cargo, 155 cargo,
    22 refrigerated cargo, 23 vehicle carrier, 8 livestock carrier, 13
    roll-on/roll-off cargo, 8 container, 35 petroleum tanker, 1 chemical tanker,
    6 liquefied gas, 2 combination ore/oil, 247 bulk, 7 combination bulk; note -
    many Philippine flag ships are foreign owned and are on the register for the
    purpose of long-term bare-boat charter back to their original owners who are
    principally in Japan and Germany
Civil air:
    53 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    278 total, 244 usable; 72 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 9 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 53 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    good international radio and submarine cable services; domestic and
    interisland service adequate; 872,900 telephones; broadcast stations - 267
    AM (including 6 US), 55 FM, 33 TV (including 4 US); submarine cables
    extended to Hong Kong, Guam, Singapore, Taiwan, and Japan; satellite earth
    stations - 1 Indian Ocean INTELSAT, 2 Pacific Ocean INTELSAT, and 11
    domestic

:Philippines Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Navy (including Coast Guard and Marine Corps), Air Force
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 16,719,421; 11,816,366 fit for military service; 698,683 reach
    military age (20) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $915 million, 1.9% of GNP (1991)

:Pitcairn Islands Geography

Total area:
    47 km2
Land area:
    47 km2
Comparative area:
    about 0.3 times the size of Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    51 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive fishing zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    3 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    tropical, hot, humid, modified by southeast trade winds; rainy season
    (November to March)
Terrain:
    rugged volcanic formation; rocky coastline with cliffs
Natural resources:
    miro trees (used for handicrafts), fish
Land use:
    arable land NA%; permanent crops NA%; meadows and pastures NA%; forest and
    woodland NA%; other NA%
Environment:
    subject to typhoons (especially November to March)
Note:
    located in the South Pacific Ocean about halfway between Peru and New
    Zealand

:Pitcairn Islands People

Population:
    52 (July 1992), growth rate 0.0% (1992)
Birth rate:
    NA births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    NA deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    NA migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    NA deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    NA years male, NA years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    NA children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Pitcairn Islander(s); adjective - Pitcairn Islander
Ethnic divisions:
    descendants of Bounty mutineers
Religions:
    Seventh-Day Adventist 100%
Languages:
    English (official); also a Tahitian/English dialect
Literacy:
    NA% (male NA%, female NA%)
Labor force:
    NA; no business community in the usual sense; some public works; subsistence
    farming and fishing
Organized labor:
    NA

:Pitcairn Islands Government

Long-form name:
    Pitcairn, Henderson, Ducie, and Oeno Islands
Type:
    dependent territory of the UK
Capital:
    Adamstown
Administrative divisions:
    none (dependent territory of the UK)
Independence:
    none (dependent territory of the UK)
Constitution:
    Local Government Ordinance of 1964
Legal system:
    local island by-laws
National holiday:
    Celebration of the Birthday of the Queen (second Saturday in June), 10 June
    1989
Executive branch:
    British monarch, governor, island magistrate
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Island Council
Judicial branch:
    Island Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952), represented by the Governor and
    UK High Commissioner to New Zealand David Joseph MOSS (since NA 1990)
  Head of Government:
    Island Magistrate and Chairman of the Island Council Brian YOUNG (since NA
    1985)
Political parties and leaders:
    NA
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18 with three years residency
Elections:
  Island Council:
    last held NA (next to be held NA); results - percent of vote by party NA;
    seats - (11 total, 5 elected) number of seats by party NA
Other political or pressure groups:
    NA
Member of:
    SPC
Diplomatic representation:
    none (dependent territory of the UK)
Flag:
    blue with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side quadrant and the
    Pitcairn Islander coat of arms centered on the outer half of the flag; the
    coat of arms is yellow, green, and light blue with a shield featuring a
    yellow anchor

:Pitcairn Islands Economy

Overview:
    The inhabitants exist on fishing and subsistence farming. The fertile soil
    of the valleys produces a wide variety of fruits and vegetables, including
    citrus, sugarcane, watermelons, bananas, yams, and beans. Bartering is an
    important part of the economy. The major sources of revenue are the sale of
    postage stamps to collectors and the sale of handicrafts to passing ships.
GDP:
    $NA, per capita $NA; real growth rate NA%
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    NA%
Unemployment rate:
    NA%
Budget:
    revenues $430,440; expenditures $429,983, including capital expenditures of
    $NA (FY87 est.)
Exports:
    $NA
  commodities:
    fruits, vegetables, curios
  partners:
    NA
Imports:
    $NA
  commodities:
    fuel oil, machinery, building materials, flour, sugar, other foodstuffs
  partners:
    NA
External debt:
    $NA
Industrial production:
    growth rate NA%
Electricity:
    110 kW capacity; 0.30 million kWh produced, 5,360 kWh per capita (1990)
Industries:
    postage stamp sales, handicrafts
Agriculture:
    based on subsistence fishing and farming; wide variety of fruits and
    vegetables grown; must import grain products
Economic aid:
    none
Currency:
    New Zealand dollar (plural - dollars); 1 New Zealand dollar (NZ$) = 100
    cents
Exchange rates:
    New Zealand dollars (NZ$) per US$1 - 1.8245 (March 1992), 1.7265 (1991),
    1.6750 (1990), 1.6711 (1989), 1.5244 (1988), 1.6866 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    1 April - 31 March

:Pitcairn Islands Communications

Railroads:
    none
Highways:
    6.4 km dirt roads
Ports:
    Bounty Bay
Airports:
    none
Telecommunications:
    24 telephones; party line telephone service on the island; broadcast
    stations - 1 AM, no FM, no TV; diesel generator provides electricity

:Pitcairn Islands Defense Forces

Note:
    defense is the responsibility of the UK

:Poland Geography

Total area:
    312,680 km2
Land area:
    304,510 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than New Mexico
Land boundaries:
    3,321 km total; Belarus 605 km, Czechoslovakia 1,309 km, Germany 456 km,
    Lithuania 91 km, Russia (Kaliningrad Oblast) 432 km, Ukraine 428 km
Coastline:
    491 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    temperate with cold, cloudy, moderately severe winters with frequent
    precipitation; mild summers with frequent showers and thundershowers
Terrain:
    mostly flat plain; mountains along southern border
Natural resources:
    coal, sulfur, copper, natural gas, silver, lead, salt
Land use:
    arable land 46%; permanent crops 1%; meadows and pastures 13%; forest and
    woodland 28%; other 12%; includes irrigated NEGL%
Environment:
    plain crossed by a few north flowing, meandering streams; severe air and
    water pollution in south
Note:
    historically, an area of conflict because of flat terrain and the lack of
    natural barriers on the North European Plain

:Poland People

Population:
    38,385,617 (July 1992), growth rate 0.4% (1992)
Birth rate:
    14 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    10 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    -1 migrant/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    14 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    68 years male, 76 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    2.0 children born/woman(1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Pole(s); adjective - Polish
Ethnic divisions:
    Polish 97.6%, German 1.3%, Ukrainian 0.6%, Belorussian 0.5% (1990 est.)
Religions:
    Roman Catholic 95% (about 75% practicing), Russian Orthodox, Protestant, and
    other 5%
Languages:
    Polish
Literacy:
    98% (male 99%, female 98%) age 15 and over can read and write (1978)
Labor force:
    17,104,000; industry and construction 36.1%; agriculture 27.3%; trade,
    transport, and communications 14.8%; government and other 21.8% (1989)
Organized labor:
    trade union pluralism

:Poland Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Poland
Type:
    democratic state
Capital:
    Warsaw
Administrative divisions:
    49 provinces (wojewodztwa, singular - wojewodztwo); Biaa Podlaska, Biaystok,
    Bielsko, Bydgoszcz, Chem, Ciechanow, Czestochowa, Elblag, Gdansk, Gorzow,
    Jelenia Gora, Kalisz, Katowice, Kielce, Konin, Koszalin, Krakow, Krosno,
    Legnica, Leszno, odz, omza, Lublin, Nowy Sacz, Olsztyn, Opole, Ostroteka,
    Pia, Piotrkow, Pock, Poznan, Przemysl, Radom, Rzeszow, Siedlce, Sieradz,
    Skierniewice, Supsk, Suwaki, Szczecin, Tarnobrzeg, Tarnow, Torun, Wabrzych,
    Warszawa, Wocawek, Wrocaw, Zamosc, Zielona Gora
Independence:
    11 November 1918, independent republic proclaimed
Constitution:
    Communist-imposed Constitution of 22 July 1952; developing a democratic
    Constitution
Legal system:
    mixture of Continental (Napoleonic) civil law and holdover Communist legal
    theory; changes being gradually introduced as part of broader
    democratization process; no judicial review of legislative acts; has not
    accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
National holiday:
    Constitution Day, 3 May (1794)
Executive branch:
    president, prime minister, Council of Ministers (cabinet)
Legislative branch:
    bicameral National Assembly (Zgromadzenie Narodowe) consists of an upper
    house or Senate (Senat) and a lower house or Diet (Sejm)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Lech WALESA (since 22 December 1990)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Hanna SUCHOCKA (since 10 July 1992)
Political parties and leaders:
  Solidarity Bloc:
    Democratic Union (UD), Tadeusz MAZOWIECKI; Christian-National Union (ZCHN),
    Wieslaw CHRZANOWSKI; Centrum (PC), Jaroslaw KACZYNSKI; Liberal-Democratic
    Congress, Donald TUSK; Peasant Alliance (PL), Gabriel JANOWSKI; Solidarity
    Trade Union (NSZZ), Marian KRZAKLEWSKI; Solidarity Labor (SP), Ryszard
    BUGAJ; Christian-Democratic Party (PCHD), Pawel LACZKOWSKI;
    Democratic-Social Movement (RDS), Zbigniew BUJAK; Kracow Coalition in
    Solidarity with the President, Mieczyslaw GIL; Solidarity 80, Marian JURCZYK
  Non-Communist, Non-Solidarity:
    Confederation for an Independent Poland (KPN), Leszek MOCZULSKI; Beer
    Lovers' Party (PPPP), Janusz REWINSKI; Christian Democrats (CHD), Andrzej
    OWSINSKI; German Minority (MN), Henryk KROL; Western Union (KPN Front),
    Damian JAKUBOWSKI; RealPolitik (UPR), Janusz KORWIN-MIKKE; Democratic Party
    (SD), Antoni MACKIEWICZ
  Communist origin or linked:
    Social Democracy (SDRP, or SLD), Wlodzimierz Cimoszewicz; Polish Peasants'
    Party (PSL), Waldermar PAWLAK; Party X, Stanislaw Tyminski
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18

:Poland Government

Elections:
  President:
    first round held 25 November 1990, second round held 9 December 1990 (next
    to be held NA November 1995); results - second round Lech WALESA 74.7%,
    Stanislaw TYMINSKI 25.3%
  Senate:
    last held 27 October 1991 (next to be held no later than NA October 1995);
    results -
  Solidarity Bloc:
    UD 21%, NSZZ 11%, ZCHN 9%, PC 9%, Liberal-Democratic Congress 6%, PL 7%,
    PCHD 3%, other local candidates 11%
  Non-Communist, Non-Solidarity:
    KPN 4%, CHD 1%, MN 1%, local candidates 5%
  Communist origin or linked:
    PSL 8%, SLD 4%; seats - (100 total)
  Solidarity Bloc:
    UD 21, NSZZ 11, ZCHN 9, Liberal-Democratic Congress 6, PL 7, PCHD 3, other
    local candidates 11;
  Non-Communist, Non-Solidarity:
    KPN 4, CHD 1, MN 1 local candidates 5
  Communist origin or linked:
    PSL 8, SLD 4
  Sejm:
    last held 27 October 1991 (next to be held no later than NA October 1995);
    results -
  Solidarity Bloc:
    UD 12.31%, ZCHN 8.73%, PL 8.71%, Liberal-Democratic Congress 7.48%, PL
    5.46%, NSZZ 5.05%, SP 2.05%, PCHD 1.11%
  Non-Communist, Non-Solidarity:
    KPN 7.50%, PPPP 3.27%, CHD 2.36%, UPR 2.25%, MN 1.70%
  Communist origin or linked:
    SLD 11.98%, PSL 8.67%; seats - (460 total)
  Solidarity Bloc:
    UD 62, ZCHN 9, PC 44, Liberal-Democratic Congress 37, PL 28, NSZZ 27, SP 4,
    PCHD 4, RDS 1, Krackow Coalition in Solidarity with the President 1, Piast
    Agreement 1, Bydgoszcz Peasant List 1, Solidarity 80 1
  Non-Communist, Non-Solidarity:
    KPN 46, PPPP 16, MN 7, CHD 5, Western Union 4, UPR 3, Autonomous Silesia 2,
    SD 1, Orthodox Election Committee 1, Committee of Women Against Hardships 1,
    Podhale Union 1, Wielkopolska Group 1, Wielkopolska and Lubuski Inhabitants
    1
  Communist origin or linked:
    SLD 60, PSL 48, Party X 3
Communists:
    70,000 members in the Communist successor parties (1990)
Other political or pressure groups:
    powerful Roman Catholic Church; Confederation for an Independent Poland
    (KPN), a nationalist group; Solidarity (trade union); All Poland Trade Union
    Alliance (OPZZ), populist program; Clubs of Catholic Intellectuals (KIKs)
Member of:
    BIS, CCC, CE, CERN, CSCE, ECE, FAO, GATT, Hexagonale, IAEA, IBEC, IBRD,
    ICAO, ICFTU, IDA, IIB, ILO, IMF, IMO, INMARSAT, IOC, ISO, ITU, LORCS, PCA,
    UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNDOF, UNIDO, UNIIMOG, UPU, WCL, WHO, WIPO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Kazimierz DZIEWANOWSKI; Chancery at 2640 16th Street NW,
    Washington, DC 20009; telephone (202) 234-3800 through 3802; there are
    Polish Consulates General in Chicago, Los Angeles, and New York

:Poland Government

  US:
    Ambassador Thomas W. SIMONS, Jr.; Embassy at Aleje Ujazdowskie 29/31, Warsaw
    (mailing address is American Embassy Warsaw, Box 5010, or APO AE
    09213-5010); telephone [48] (2) 628-8298; FAX [48] (2) 628-9326; there is a
    US Consulate General in Krakow and a Consulate in Poznan
Flag:
    two equal horizontal bands of white (top) and red; similar to the flags of
    Indonesia and Monaco which are red (top) and white

:Poland Economy

Overview:
    Poland is undergoing a difficult transition from a Soviet-style economy -
    with state ownership and control of productive assets - to a market economy.
    On January 1, 1990, the new Solidarity-led government implemented shock
    therapy by slashing subsidies, decontrolling prices, tightening the money
    supply, stabilizing the foreign exchange rate, lowering import barriers, and
    restraining state sector wages. As a result, consumer goods shortages and
    lines disappeared, and inflation fell from 640% in 1989 to 60% in 1991.
    Western governments, which hold two-thirds of Poland's $48 billion external
    debt, pledged in 1991 to forgive half of Poland's official debt by 1994, and
    the private sector grew, accounting for 22% of industrial production and 40%
    of nonagricultural output by 1991. Production fell in state enterprises,
    however, and the unemployment rate climbed steadily from virtually nothing
    in 1989 to 11.4% in December 1991. Poland fell out of compliance with its
    IMF program by mid-1991, and talks with commercial creditors stalled. The
    increase in unemployment and the decline in living standards led to popular
    discontent and a change in government in January 1991 and again in December.
    The new government has promised selective industrial intervention, some
    relaxation in monetary policy, and an improved social safety net, but will
    be constrained by the decline in output and the growing budget deficit.
GDP:
    purchasing power equivalent - $162.7 billion, per capita $4,300; real growth
    rate -5% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    60% (1991 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    11.4% (end December 1991)
Budget:
    revenues $19.5 billion; expenditures $22.4 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $1.5 billion (1991 est.)
Exports:
    $12.8 billion (f.o.b., 1991 est.)
  commodities:
    machinery 23%, metals 17%, chemicals 13%, fuels 11%, food 10% (1991 est.)
  partners:
    FRG 25.1%, former USSR 15.3%, UK 7.1%, Switzerland 4.7% (1990)
Imports:
    $12.9 billion (f.o.b., 1991 est.)
  commodities:
    machinery 35%, fuels 20%, chemicals 13%, food 11%, light industry 7% (1991
    est.)
  partners:
    FRG 20.1%, former USSR 19.8%, Italy 7.5%, Switzerland 6.4% (1990)
External debt:
    $48.5 billion (January 1992); note - Poland's Western government creditors
    promised in 1991 to forgive 30% of Warsaw's official debt - currently $33
    billion - immediately and to forgive another 20% by 1994, if Poland adheres
    to its IMF program
Industrial production:
    growth rate -14% (State sector 1991 est.)
Electricity:
    31,530,000 kW capacity; 136,300 million kWh produced, 3,610 kWh per capita
    (1990)
Industries:
    machine building, iron and steel, extractive industries, chemicals,
    shipbuilding, food processing, glass, beverages, textiles

:Poland Economy

Agriculture:
    accounts for 15% of GDP and 27% of labor force; 75% of output from private
    farms, 25% from state farms; productivity remains low by European standards;
    leading European producer of rye, rapeseed, and potatoes; wide variety of
    other crops and livestock; major exporter of pork products; normally
    self-sufficient in food
Illicit drugs:
    illicit producers of opium for domestic consumption and amphetamines for the
    international market; emerging as a transshipment point for illicit drugs to
    Western Europe
Economic aid:
    donor - bilateral aid to non-Communist less developed countries, $2.2
    billion (1954-89); note - the G-24 has pledged $8 billion in grants and
    credit guarantees to Poland
Currency:
    Zoty (plural - Zotych); 1 Zoty (Z) = 100 groszy
Exchange rates:
    Zotych (z) per US$1 - 13,443 (March 1992), 10,576 (1991), 9,500 (1990),
    1,439.18 (1989), 430.55 (1988), 265.08 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Poland Communications

Railroads:
    27,041 km total; 24,287 km 1.435-meter gauge, 397 km 1.520-meter gauge,
    2,357 km narrow gauge; 8,987 km double track; 11,016 km electrified;
    government owned (1989)
Highways:
    299,887 km total; 130,000 km improved hard surface (concrete, asphalt, stone
    block); 24,000 km unimproved hard surface (crushed stone, gravel); 100,000
    km earth; 45,887 km other urban roads (1985)
Inland waterways:
    3,997 km navigable rivers and canals (1989)
Pipelines:
    natural gas 4,500 km, crude oil 1,986 km, petroleum products 360 km (1987)
Ports:
    Gdansk, Gdynia, Szczecin, Swinoujscie; principal inland ports are Gliwice on
    Kana Gliwice, Wrocaw on the Oder, and Warsaw on the Vistula
Merchant marine:
    222 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 2,851,016 GRT/4,019,531 DWT; includes
    5 short-sea passenger, 79 cargo, 4 refrigerated cargo, 14 roll-on/roll-off
    cargo, 12 container, 1 petroleum tanker, 4 chemical tanker, 102 bulk, 1
    passenger; Poland owns 1 ship of 6,333 DWT operating under Liberian registry
Civil air:
    48 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    160 total, 160 usable; 85 with permanent-surface runways; 1 with runway over
    3,659 m; 35 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 65 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    severely underdeveloped and outmoded system; cable, open wire and microwave;
    phone density is 10.5 phones per 100 residents (October 1990); 3.1 million
    subscribers; exchanges are 86% automatic (February 1990); broadcast stations
    - 27 AM, 27 FM, 40 (5 Soviet repeaters) TV; 9.6 million TVs; 1 satellite
    earth station using INTELSAT, EUTELSAT, INMARSAT and Intersputnik

:Poland Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Navy, Air and Air Defense Force
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 9,785,823; 7,696,425 fit for military service; 294,191 reach
    military age (19) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - 19.2 trillion zotych, NA% of GDP (1991); note -
    conversion of defense expenditures into US dollars using the current
    exchange rate could produce misleading results

:Portugal Geography

Total area:
    92,080 km2
Land area:
    91,640 km2; includes Azores and Madeira Islands
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than Indiana
Land boundaries:
    1,214 km; Spain 1,214 km
Coastline:
    1,793 km
Maritime claims:
  Continental shelf:
    200 m (depth) or to depth of exploitation
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    sovereignty over Timor Timur (East Timor Province) disputed with Indonesia
Climate:
    maritime temperate; cool and rainy in north, warmer and drier in south
Terrain:
    mountainous north of the Tagus, rolling plains in south
Natural resources:
    fish, forests (cork), tungsten, iron ore, uranium ore, marble
Land use:
    arable land 32%; permanent crops 6%; meadows and pastures 6%; forest and
    woodland 40%; other 16%; includes irrigated 7%
Environment:
    Azores subject to severe earthquakes
Note:
    Azores and Madeira Islands occupy strategic locations along western sea
    approaches to Strait of Gibraltar

:Portugal People

Population:
    10,448,509 (July 1992), growth rate 0.4% (1992)
Birth rate:
    12 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    10 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    2 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    10 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    71 years male, 78 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    1.4 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Portuguese (singular and plural); adjective - Portuguese
Ethnic divisions:
    homogeneous Mediterranean stock in mainland, Azores, Madeira Islands;
    citizens of black African descent who immigrated to mainland during
    decolonization number less than 100,000
Religions:
    Roman Catholic 97%, Protestant denominations 1%, other 2%
Languages:
    Portuguese
Literacy:
    85% (male 89%, female 82%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    4,605,700; services 45%, industry 35%, agriculture 20% (1988)
Organized labor:
    about 55% of the labor force; the Communist-dominated General Confederation
    of Portuguese Workers - Intersindical (CGTP-IN) represents more than half of
    the unionized labor force; its main competition, the General Workers Union
    (UGT), is organized by the Socialists and Social Democrats and represents
    less than half of unionized labor

:Portugal Government

Long-form name:
    Portuguese Republic
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Lisbon
Administrative divisions:
    18 districts (distritos, singular - distrito) and 2 autonomous regions*
    (regioes autonomas, singular - regiao autonoma); Aveiro, Acores (Azores)*,
    Beja, Braga, Braganca, Castelo Branco, Coimbra, Evora, Faro, Guarda, Leiria,
    Lisboa, Madeira*, Portalegre, Porto, Santarem, Setubal, Viana do Castelo,
    Vila Real, Viseu
Independence:
    1140; independent republic proclaimed 5 October 1910
Constitution:
    25 April 1976, revised 30 October 1982 and 1 June 1989
Legal system:
    civil law system; the Constitutional Tribunal reviews the constitutionality
    of legislation; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with reservations
National holiday:
    Day of Portugal, 10 June
Executive branch:
    president, Council of State, prime minister, deputy prime minister, Council
    of Ministers (cabinet)
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Assembly of the Republic (Assembleia da Republica)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Tribunal of Justice (Supremo Tribunal de Justica)
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Dr. Mario Alberto Nobre Lopes SOARES (since 9 March 1986)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Anibal CAVACO SILVA (since 6 November 1985)
Political parties and leaders:
    Social Democratic Party (PSD), Anibal CAVACO Silva; Portuguese Socialist
    Party (PS), Jorge SAMPAIO; Party of Democratic Renewal (PRD), Herminio
    MARTINHO; Portuguese Communist Party (PCP), Alvaro CUNHAL; Social Democratic
    Center (CDS), Andriano MORREIRA (interim); National Solidarity Party, Manuel
    SERGIO; Center Democratic Party; United Democratic Coalition (CDU;
    Communists)
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  President:
    last held 13 February 1991 (next to be held NA February 1996); results - Dr.
    Mario Lopes SOARES 70%, Basilio HORTA 14%, Carlos CARVALHAS 13%, Carlos
    MARQUES 3%
  Assembly of the Republic:
    last held 6 October 1991 (next to be held NA October 1995); results - PSD
    50.4%, PS 29.3%, CDU 8.8%, Center Democrats 4.4%, National Solidarity Party
    1.7%, PRD 0.6%, other 4.8%; seats - (230 total) PSD 135, PS 72, CDU 17,
    Center Democrats 5, National Solidarity Party 1
Communists:
    Portuguese Communist Party claims membership of 200,753 (December 1983)

:Portugal Government

Member of:
    AfDB, BIS, CCC, CE, CERN, COCOM, CSCE, EBRD, EC, ECE, ECLAC, EIB, FAO, GATT,
    IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, IEA, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INMARSAT,
    INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, LAIA (observer), LORCS, NAM (guest),
    NATO, NEA, OAS (observer), OECD, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL,
    WEU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Joao Eduardo M. PEREIRA BASTOS; Chancery at 2125 Kalorama Road
    NW, Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 328-8610; there are Portuguese
    Consulates General in Boston, New York, and San Francisco, and Consulates in
    Los Angeles, Newark (New Jersey), New Bedford (Massachusetts), and
    Providence (Rhode Island)
  US:
    Ambassador Everett E. BRIGGS; Embassy at Avenida das Forcas Armadas, 1600
    Lisbon (mailing address is PSC 83, APO AE 09726); telephone [351] (1)
    726-6600 or 6659, 8670, 8880; FAX [351] (1) 726-9109; there is a US
    Consulate in Oporto and Ponta Delgada (Azores)
Flag:
    two vertical bands of green (hoist side, two-fifths) and red (three-fifths)
    with the Portuguese coat of arms centered on the dividing line

:Portugal Economy

Overview:
    Although Portugal has experienced strong growth since joining the EC in 1986
    - at least 4% each year through 1990 - it remains one of the poorest
    members. To prepare for the European single market, the government is
    restructuring and modernizing the economy and in 1989 embarked on a major
    privatization program. The global slowdown and tight monetary policies to
    counter inflation caused growth to slow in 1991, but it is likely to recover
    in 1992.
GDP:
    purchasing power equivalent - $87.3 billion, per capita $8,400; real growth
    rate 2.7% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    12.0% (1991 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    4.0% (1991 est.)
Budget:
    revenues $27.0 billion; expenditures $33.9 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $6.7 billion (1991 est.)
Exports:
    $16.4 billion (f.o.b., 1990)
  commodities:
    cotton textiles, cork and paper products, canned fish, wine, timber and
    timber products, resin, machinery, appliances
  partners:
    EC 74%, other developed countries 13.2%, US 4.8%
Imports:
    $25.1 billion (c.i.f., 1990)
  commodities:
    machinery and transport equipment, agricultural products, chemicals,
    petroleum, textiles
  partners:
    EC 69.1%, other developed countries 11.4% less developed countries 15.1%, US
    3.9%
External debt:
    $15.0 billion (1991 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 9.1% (1990); accounts for 40% of GDP
Electricity:
    6,729,000 kW capacity; 16,000 million kWh produced, 1,530 kWh per capita
    (1991)
Industries:
    textiles and footwear; wood pulp, paper, and cork; metalworking; oil
    refining; chemicals; fish canning; wine; tourism
Agriculture:
    accounts for 6.1% of GDP and about 20% of labor force; small, inefficient
    farms; imports more than half of food needs; major crops - grain, potatoes,
    olives, grapes; livestock sector - sheep, cattle, goats, poultry, meat,
    dairy products
Illicit drugs:
    increasingly import gateway country for Latin American cocaine entering the
    European market
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $1.8 billion; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $1.2 billion
Currency:
    Portuguese escudo (plural - escudos); 1 Portuguese escudo (Esc) = 100
    centavos

:Portugal Economy

Exchange rates:
    Portuguese escudos (Esc) per US$1 - 143.09 (March 1992), 144.48 (1991),
    142.55 (1990), 157.46 (1989), 143.95 (1988), 140.88 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Portugal Communications

Railroads:
    3,613 km total; state-owned Portuguese Railroad Co. (CP) operates 2,858 km
    1.665-meter gauge (434 km electrified and 426 km double track), 755 km
    1.000-meter gauge; 12 km (1.435-meter gauge) electrified, double track,
    privately owned
Highways:
    73,661 km total; 61,599 km surfaced (bituminous, gravel, and crushed stone),
    including 140 km of limited-access divided highway; 7,962 km improved earth;
    4,100 km unimproved earth (motorable tracks)
Inland waterways:
    820 km navigable; relatively unimportant to national economy, used by
    shallow-draft craft limited to 300-metric-ton cargo capacity
Pipelines:
    crude oil 11 km; petroleum products 58 km
Ports:
    Leixoes, Lisbon, Porto, Ponta Delgada (Azores), Velas (Azores), Setubal,
    Sines
Merchant marine:
    53 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 738,774 GRT/1,300,787 DWT; includes 1
    short-sea passenger, 20 cargo, 3 refrigerated cargo, 3 container, 1
    roll-on/roll-off cargo, 13 petroleum tanker, 2 chemical tanker, 8 bulk, 2
    vehicle carrier; note - Portugal has created a captive register on Madeira
    (MAR) for Portuguese-owned ships that will have the taxation and crewing
    benefits of a flag of convenience; although only one ship currently is known
    to fly the Portuguese flag on the MAR register, it is likely that a majority
    of Portuguese flag ships will transfer to this subregister in a few years
Civil air:
    43 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    65 total, 62 usable; 36 with permanent-surface runways; 1 with runways over
    3,659 m; 12 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 8 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    generally adequate integrated network of coaxial cables, open wire and radio
    relay; 2,690,000 telephones; broadcast stations - 57 AM, 66 (22 repeaters)
    FM, 66 (23 repeaters) TV; 6 submarine cables; 3 INTELSAT earth stations (2
    Atlantic Ocean, 1 Indian Ocean), EUTELSAT, domestic satellite systems
    (mainland and Azores); tropospheric link to Azores

:Portugal Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Navy (including Marines), Air Force, National Republican Guard, Fiscal
    Guard, Public Security Police
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 2,666,450; 2,166,341 fit for military service; 88,826 reach
    military age (20) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $1.7 billion, 2.8% of GDP (1991)

:Puerto Rico Geography

Total area:
    9,104 km2
Land area:
    8,959 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly less than three times the size of Rhode Island
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    501 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    12 nm
  Continental shelf:
    200 m (depth)
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    tropical marine, mild, little seasonal temperature variation
Terrain:
    mostly mountains with coastal plain belt in north; mountains precipitous to
    sea on west coast
Natural resources:
    some copper and nickel; potential for onshore and offshore crude oil
Land use:
    arable land 8%; permanent crops 9%; meadows and pastures 41%; forest and
    woodland 20%; other 22%
Environment:
    many small rivers and high central mountains ensure land is well watered;
    south coast relatively dry; fertile coastal plain belt in north
Note:
    important location between the Dominican Republic and the Virgin Islands
    group along the Mona Passage - a key shipping lane to the Panama Canal; San
    Juan is one of the biggest and best natural harbors in the Caribbean

:Puerto Rico People

Population:
    3,776,654 (July 1992), growth rate 1.0% (1992)
Birth rate:
    17 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    8 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    14 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    70 years male, 78 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    2.1 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Puerto Rican(s); adjective - Puerto Rican
Ethnic divisions:
    almost entirely Hispanic
Religions:
    Roman Catholic 85%, Protestant denominations and other 15%
Languages:
    Spanish (official); English is widely understood
Literacy:
    89% (male 90%, female 88%) age 15 and over can read and write (1980)
Labor force:
    1,068,000; government 28%, manufacturing 15%, trade 14%, agriculture 3%,
    other 40% (1990)
Organized labor:
    115,000 members in 4 unions; the largest is the General Confederation of
    Puerto Rican Workers with 35,000 members (1983)

:Puerto Rico Government

Long-form name:
    Commonwealth of Puerto Rico
Type:
    commonwealth associated with the US
Capital:
    San Juan
Administrative divisions:
    none (commonwealth associated with the US)
Independence:
    none (commonwealth associated with the US)
Constitution:
    ratified 3 March 1952; approved by US Congress 3 July 1952; effective 25
    July 1952
Legal system:
    based on Spanish civil code
National holiday:
    Constitution Day, 25 July (1952)
Executive branch:
    US president, US vice president, governor
Legislative branch:
    bicameral Legislative Assembly consists of an upper house or Senate and a
    lower house or House of Representatives
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President George BUSH (since 20 January 1989); Vice President Dan QUAYLE
    (since 20 January 1989)
  Head of Government:
    Governor Rafael HERNANDEZ Colon (since 2 January 1989)
Political parties and leaders:
    National Republican Party of Puerto Rico, Freddy VALENTIN; Popular
    Democratic Party (PPD), Rafael HERNANDEZ Colon; New Progressive Party (PNP),
    Carlos ROMERO Barcelo; Puerto Rican Socialist Party (PSP), Juan MARI Bras
    and Carlos GALLISA; Puerto Rican Independence Party (PIP), Ruben BERRIOS
    Martinez; Puerto Rican Communist Party (PCP), leader(s) unknown; Puerto
    Rican Renewal Party (PRP, breakaway group from PNP), leader (vacant); Puerto
    Rico Democratic Party, Richard MACHADO
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18; citizens of Puerto Rico are also US citizens, but do
    not vote in US presidential elections
Elections:
  Governor:
    last held 8 November 1988 (next to be held 3 November 1992); results -
    Rafael HERNANDEZ Colon (PPD) 48.7%, Baltasar CORRADA Del Rio (PNP) 45.8%,
    Ruben BERRIOS Martinez (PIP) 5.5%
  Senate:
    last held 8 November 1988 (next to be held 3 November 1992); results -
    percent of vote by party NA; seats - (27 total) PPD 18, PNP 8, PIP 1
  US House of Representatives:
    last held 8 November 1988 (next to be held 3 November 1992); results -
    percent of vote by party NA; seats - (1 total) seats by party NA; note -
    Puerto Rico elects one nonvoting representative to the US House of
    Representatives, Jaime B. FUSTER
  House of Representatives:
    last held 8 November 1988 (next to be held 3 November 1992); results -
    percent of vote by party NA; seats - (53 total) PPD 36, PNP 15, PIP 2

:Puerto Rico Government

Other political or pressure groups:
    all have engaged in terrorist activities - Armed Forces for National
    Liberation (FALN), Volunteers of the Puerto Rican Revolution, Boricua
    Popular Army (also known as the Macheteros), Armed Forces of Popular
    Resistance
Member of:
    CARICOM (observer), ECLAC, ICFTU, IOC, WCL, WFTU, WTO (associate)
Diplomatic representation:
    none (commonwealth associated with the US)
Flag:
    five equal horizontal bands of red (top and bottom) alternating with white;
    a blue isosceles triangle based on the hoist side bears a large white
    five-pointed star in the center; design based on the US flag

:Puerto Rico Economy

Overview:
    Puerto Rico has one of the most dynamic economies in the Caribbean region.
    Industry has surpassed agriculture as the primary sector of economic
    activity and income. Encouraged by duty free access to the US and by tax
    incentives, US firms have invested heavily in Puerto Rico since the 1950s.
    Important new industries include pharmaceuticals, electronics, textiles,
    petrochemicals, and processed foods. Sugar production has lost out to dairy
    production and other livestock products as the main source of income in the
    agricultural sector. Tourism has traditionally been an important source of
    income for the island. The economy has largely recovered from the
    disruptions caused by Hurricane Hugo in September 1989. The tourism
    infrastructure has been especially hard hit.
GNP:
    purchasing power equivalent - $21.6 billion, per capita $6,600; real growth
    rate 2.2% (FY90)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    1.3% (October 1990-91)
Unemployment rate:
    15.5% (October 1991)
Budget:
    revenues $5.8 billion; expenditures $5.8 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $258 million (FY89)
Exports:
    NA
  commodities:
    pharmaceuticals, electronics, apparel, canned tuna, rum, beverage
    concentrates, medical equipment, instruments
  partners:
    US 87% (FY90)
Imports:
    NA
  commodities:
    chemicals, clothing, food, fish, petroleum products
  partners:
    US 68% (FY90)
External debt:
    $NA
Industrial production:
    growth rate 3.8% (FY90)
Electricity:
    4,149,000 kW capacity; 14,844 million kWh produced, 4,510 kWh per capita
    (1990)
Industries:
    manufacturing of pharmaceuticals, electronics, apparel, food products,
    instruments; tourism
Agriculture:
    accounts for 3% of labor force; crops - sugarcane, coffee, pineapples,
    plantains, bananas; livestock - cattle, chickens; imports a large share of
    food needs
Economic aid:
    none
Currency:
    US currency is used
Exchange rates:
    US currency is used
Fiscal year:
    1 July - 30 June

:Puerto Rico Communications

Railroads:
    96 km rural narrow-gauge system for hauling sugarcane; no passenger
    railroads
Highways:
    13,762 km paved (1982)
Ports:
    San Juan, Ponce, Mayaguez, Arecibo
Airports:
    30 total; 24 usable; 19 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 3 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 5 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    900,000 or 99% of total households have TV; 1,067,787 telephones (1988);
    broadcast stations - 50 AM, 63 FM, 9 TV (1990)

:Puerto Rico Defense Forces

Branches:
    paramilitary National Guard, Police Force
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 830,133; NA fit for military service
Note:
    defense is the responsibility of the US

:Qatar Geography

Total area:
    11,000 km2
Land area:
    11,000 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than Connecticut
Land boundaries:
    60 km total; Saudi Arabia 40 km, UAE 20 km
Coastline:
    563 km
Maritime claims:
    *** No entry for this item ***
  Continental shelf:
    not specific
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    location and status of Qatar's southern boundaries with Saudi Arabia and UAE
    are unresolved; territorial dispute with Bahrain over the Hawar Islands;
    maritime boundary with Bahrain
Climate:
    desert; hot, dry; humid and sultry in summer
Terrain:
    mostly flat and barren desert covered with loose sand and gravel
Natural resources:
    crude oil, natural gas, fish
Land use:
    arable land NEGL%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 5%; forest and
    woodland 0%; other 95%
Environment:
    haze, duststorms, sandstorms common; limited freshwater resources mean
    increasing dependence on large-scale desalination facilities
Note:
    strategic location in central Persian Gulf near major crude oil sources

:Qatar People

Population:
    484,387 (July 1992), growth rate 3.2% (1992)
Birth rate:
    21 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    4 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    15 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    24 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    69 years male, 74 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    4.0 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Qatari(s); adjective - Qatari
Ethnic divisions:
    Arab 40%, Pakistani 18%, Indian 18%, Iranian 10%, other 14%
Religions:
    Muslim 95%
Languages:
    Arabic (official); English is commonly used as second language
Literacy:
    76% (male 77%, female 72%) age 15 and over can read and write (1986)
Labor force:
    104,000; 85% non-Qatari in private sector (1983)
Organized labor:
    trade unions are illegal

:Qatar Government

Long-form name:
    State of Qatar
Type:
    traditional monarchy
Capital:
    Doha
Administrative divisions:
    there are no first-order administrative divisions as defined by the US
    Government, but there are 9 municipalities (baladiyat, singular -
    baladiyah); Ad Dawhah, Al Ghuwayriyah, Al Jumayliyah, Al Khawr, Al Rayyan,
    Al Wakrah, Ash Shamal, Jarayan al Batnah, Umm Salal
Independence:
    3 September 1971 (from UK)
Constitution:
    provisional constitution enacted 2 April 1970
Legal system:
    discretionary system of law controlled by the amir, although civil codes are
    being implemented; Islamic law is significant in personal matters
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 3 September (1971)
Executive branch:
    amir, Council of Ministers (cabinet)
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Advisory Council (Majlis al-Shura)
Judicial branch:
    Court of Appeal
Leaders:
  Chief of State and Head of Government:
    Amir and Prime Minister KHALIFA bin Hamad Al Thani (since 22 February 1972);
    Heir Apparent HAMAD bin Khalifa Al Thani (appointed 31 May 1977; son of
    Amir)
Political parties and leaders:
    none
Suffrage:
    none
Elections:
  Advisory Council:
    constitution calls for elections for part of this consultative body, but no
    elections have been held; seats - (30 total)
Member of:
    ABEDA, AFESD, AL, AMF, ESCWA, FAO, G-77, GCC, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, IDB, IFAD,
    ILO, IMF, IMO, INMARSAT, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, ITU, LORCS, NAM, OAPEC,
    OIC, OPEC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Hamad `Abd al-`Aziz AL-KAWARI, Chancery at Suite 1180, 600 New
    Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20037; telephone (202) 338-0111
  US:
    Ambassador Kenton W. KEITH; Embassy at 149 Ali Bin Ahmed St., Farig Bin
    Omran (opposite the television station), Doha (mailing address is P. O. Box
    2399, Doha); telephone (0974) 864701 through 864703; FAX (0974) 861669
Flag:
    maroon with a broad white serrated band (nine white points) on the hoist
    side

:Qatar Economy

Overview:
    Oil is the backbone of the economy and accounts for more than 85% of export
    earnings and roughly 75% of government revenues. Proved oil reserves of 3.3
    billion barrels should ensure continued output at current levels for about
    25 years. Oil has given Qatar a per capita GDP of about $15,000, comparable
    to the leading industrial countries. Production and export of natural gas is
    becoming increasingly important.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $7.4 billion, per capita $15,000; real growth
    rate NA (1990)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    4.9% (1988 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    NA%
Budget:
    revenues $2.1 billion; expenditures $3.2 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $490 million (FY91 est.)
Exports:
    $3.2 billion (f.o.b., 1990 est.)
  commodities:
    petroleum products 85%, steel, fertilizers
  partners:
    Japan 61%, Brazil 9%, UAE 3%, Singapore 3%
Imports:
    $1.5 billion (f.o.b., 1990 est.)
  commodities:
    foodstuffs, beverages, animal and vegetable oils, chemicals, machinery and
    equipment
  partners:
    UK 13%, Japan 11%, US 8%, Italy 8%
External debt:
    $1.1 billion (December 1989 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 0.6% (1987); accounts for 64% of GDP, including oil
Electricity:
    1,520,000 kW capacity; 4,200 million kWh produced, 8,080 kWh per capita
    (1991)
Industries:
    crude oil production and refining, fertilizers, petrochemicals, steel,
    cement
Agriculture:
    farming and grazing on small scale, less than 2% of GDP; commercial fishing
    increasing in importance; most food imported
Economic aid:
    donor - pledged $2.7 billion in ODA to less developed countries (1979-88)
Currency:
    Qatari riyal (plural - riyals); 1 Qatari riyal (QR) = 100 dirhams
Exchange rates:
    Qatari riyals (QR) per US$1 - 3.6400 riyals (fixed rate)
Fiscal year:
    1 April - 31 March

:Qatar Communications

Highways:
    1,500 km total; 1,000 km paved, 500 km gravel or natural surface (est.)
Pipelines:
    crude oil 235 km, natural gas 400 km
Ports:
    Doha, Umm Sa'id, Halul Island
Merchant marine:
    23 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 473,042 GRT/716,039 DWT; includes 14
    cargo, 5 container, 3 petroleum tanker, 1 refrigerated cargo
Civil air:
    3 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    4 total, 4 usable; 1 with permanent-surface runways; 1 with runways over
    3,659 m; none with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 2 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    modern system centered in Doha; 110,000 telephones; tropospheric scatter to
    Bahrain; radio relay to Saudi Arabia and UAE; submarine cable to Bahrain and
    UAE; broadcast stations - 2 AM, 3 FM, 3 TV; satellite earth stations - 1
    Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT, 1 Indian Ocean INTELSAT, 1 ARABSAT

:Qatar Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Navy, Air Force, Public Security
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 211,812; 112,250 fit for military service; 3,414 reach military
    age (18) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $NA, NA%, of GDP

:Reunion Geography

Total area:
    2,510 km2
Land area:
    2,500 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than Rhode Island
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    201 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    tropical, but moderates with elevation; cool and dry from May to November,
    hot and rainy from November to April
Terrain:
    mostly rugged and mountainous; fertile lowlands along coast
Natural resources:
    fish, arable land
Land use:
    arable land 20%; permanent crops 2%; meadows and pastures 4%; forest and
    woodland 35%; other 39%; includes irrigated 2%
Environment:
    periodic devastating cyclones
Note:
    located 750 km east of Madagascar in the Indian Ocean

:Reunion People

Population:
    626,414 (July 1992), growth rate 2.1% (1992)
Birth rate:
    26 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    5 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    8 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    70 years male, 77 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    2.8 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Reunionese (singular and plural); adjective - Reunionese
Ethnic divisions:
    most of the population is of intermixed French, African, Malagasy, Chinese,
    Pakistani, and Indian ancestry
Religions:
    Roman Catholic 94%
Languages:
    French (official); Creole widely used
Literacy:
    69% (male 67%, female 74%) age 15 and over can read and write (1982)
Labor force:
    NA; agriculture 30%, industry 21%, services 49% (1981); 63% of population of
    working age (1983)
Organized labor:
    General Confederation of Workers of Reunion (CGTR)

:Reunion Government

Long-form name:
    Department of Reunion
Type:
    overseas department of France
Capital:
    Saint-Denis
Administrative divisions:
    none (overseas department of France)
Independence:
    none (overseas department of France)
Constitution:
    28 September 1958 (French Constitution)
Legal system:
    French law
National holiday:
    Taking of the Bastille, 14 July (1789)
Executive branch:
    French president, commissioner of the Republic
Legislative branch:
    General Council, Regional Council
Judicial branch:
    Court of Appeals (Cour d'Appel)
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Francois MITTERRAND (since 21 May 1981)
  Head of Government:
    Commissioner of the Republic Jacques DEWATRE (since July 1991)
Political parties and leaders:
    Rally for the Republic (RPR), Francois MAS; Union for French Democracy
    (UDF), Gilbert GERARD; Communist Party of Reunion (PCR), Paul VERGES;
    France-Reunion Future (FRA), Andre THIEN AH KOON; Socialist Party (PS),
    Jean-Claude FRUTEAU; Social Democrats (CDS); other small parties
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  General Council:
    last held September/October 1988 (next to be held NA 1994); results -
    percent of vote by party NA; seats - (44 total) PCR 9, PS 4, UDF 6, other
    left-wing 2, RPR 4, right-wing 19
  Regional Council:
    last held 16 March 1986 (next to be held NA March 1992); results - RPR/UDF
    36.8%, PCR 28.2%, FRA and other right wing 17.3%, PS 14.1%, other 3.6%;
    seats - (45 total) RPR/UDF 18, PCR 13, FRA and other right wing 8, PS 6
  French Senate:
    last held 24 September 1989 (next to be held NA September 1992); results -
    percent of vote by party NA; seats - (3 total) RPR-UDF 1, PS 1, independent
    1
  French National Assembly:
    last held 5 and 12 June 1988 (next to be held NA June 1993); results -
    percent of vote by party NA; seats - (5 total) PCR 2, RPR 1, UDF-CDS 1, FRA
    1; note - Reunion elects 3 members to the French Senate and 5 members to the
    French National Assembly who are voting members
Communists:
    Communist party small but has support among sugarcane cutters, the minuscule
    Popular Movement for the Liberation of Reunion (MPLR), and in the district
    of Le Port
Member of:
    FZ, WFTU

:Reunion Government

Diplomatic representation:
    as an overseas department of France, Reunionese interests are represented in
    the US by France
Flag:
    the flag of France is used

:Reunion Economy

Overview:
    The economy has traditionally been based on agriculture. Sugarcane has been
    the primary crop for more than a century, and in some years it accounts for
    85% of exports. The government has been pushing the development of a tourist
    industry to relieve high unemployment, which recently amounted to one-third
    of the labor force. The gap in Reunion between the well-off and the poor is
    extraordinary and accounts for the persistent social tensions. The white and
    Indian communities are substantially better off than other segments of the
    population, often approaching European standards, whereas indigenous groups
    suffer the poverty and unemployment typical of the poorer nations of the
    African continent. The outbreak of severe rioting in February 1991
    illustrates the seriousness of socioeconomic tensions. The economic
    well-being of Reunion depends heavily on continued financial assistance from
    France.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $3.37 billion, per capita $6,000 (1987 est.);
    real growth rate 9% (1987 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    1.3% (1988)
Unemployment rate:
    35% (February 1991)
Budget:
    revenues $358 million; expenditures $914 million, including capital
    expenditures of $NA (1986)
Exports:
    $166 million (f.o.b., 1988)
  commodities:
    sugar 75%, rum and molasses 4%, perfume essences 4%, lobster 3%, vanilla and
    tea 1%
  partners:
    France, Mauritius, Bahrain, South Africa, Italy
Imports:
    $1.7 billion (c.i.f., 1988)
  commodities:
    manufactured goods, food, beverages, tobacco, machinery and transportation
    equipment, raw materials, and petroleum products
  partners:
    France, Mauritius, Bahrain, South Africa, Italy
External debt:
    $NA
Industrial production:
    growth rate NA%; about 25% of GDP
Electricity:
    245,000 kW capacity; 546 million kWh produced, 965 kWh per capita (1989)
Industries:
    sugar, rum, cigarettes, several small shops producing handicraft items
Agriculture:
    accounts for 30% of labor force; dominant sector of economy; cash crops -
    sugarcane, vanilla, tobacco; food crops - tropical fruits, vegetables, corn;
    imports large share of food needs
Economic aid:
    Western (non-US) countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89),
    $14.8 billion
Currency:
    French franc (plural - francs); 1 French franc (F) = 100 centimes
Exchange rates:
    French francs (F) per US$1 - 5.6397 (March 1992), 5.6421 (1991), 5.4453
    (1990), 6.3801 (1989), 5.9569 (1988), 6.0107 (1987)

:Reunion Economy

Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Reunion Communications

Highways:
    2,800 km total; 2,200 km paved, 600 km gravel, crushed stone, or stabilized
    earth
Ports:
    Pointe des Galets
Civil air:
    3 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    2 total, 2 usable; 2 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways over
    3,659 m; 1 with runway 2,440-3,659 m; 1 with runway 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    adequate system; modern open-wire and microwave network; principal center
    Saint-Denis; radiocommunication to Comoros, France, Madagascar; new
    microwave route to Mauritius; 85,900 telephones; broadcast stations - 3 AM,
    13 FM, 1 (18 repeaters) TV; 1 Indian Ocean INTELSAT earth station

:Reunion Defense Forces

Branches:
    French Forces (including Army, Navy, Air Force, Gendarmerie)
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 164,974; 85,370 fit for military service; 6,083 reach military
    age (18) annually
Note:
    defense is the responsibility of France

:Romania Geography

Total area:
    237,500 km2
Land area:
    230,340 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than Oregon
Land boundaries:
    2,508 km total; Bulgaria 608 km, Hungary 443 km, Moldova 450 km, Serbia and
    Montenegro 476 km, Ukraine (north) 362 km, Ukraine (south) 169 km
Coastline:
    225 km
Maritime claims:
  Continental shelf:
    200 m (depth) or to depth of exploitation
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    temperate; cold, cloudy winters with frequent snow and fog; sunny summers
    with frequent showers and thunderstorms
Terrain:
    central Transylvanian Basin is separated from the plain of Moldavia on the
    east by the Carpathian Mountains and separated from the Walachian Plain on
    the south by the Transylvanian Alps
Natural resources:
    crude oil (reserves being exhausted), timber, natural gas, coal, iron ore,
    salt
Land use:
    arable land 43%; permanent crops 3%; meadows and pastures 19%; forest and
    woodland 28%; other 7%; includes irrigated 11%
Environment:
    frequent earthquakes most severe in south and southwest; geologic structure
    and climate promote landslides; air pollution in south
Note:
    controls most easily traversable land route between the Balkans, Moldova,
    and the Ukraine

:Romania People

Population:
    23,169,914 (July 1992), growth rate 0.0% (1992)
Birth rate:
    14 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    10 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    -3 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    22 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    68 years male, 74 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    1.8 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Romanian(s); adjective - Romanian
Ethnic divisions:
    Romanian 89.1%, Hungarian 8.9%, German 0.4%, Ukrainian, Serb, Croat,
    Russian, Turk, and Gypsy 1.6%
Religions:
    Romanian Orthodox 70%, Roman Catholic 6%, Greek Catholic (Uniate) 3%,
    Protestant 6%, unaffiliated 15%
Languages:
    Romanian, Hungarian, German
Literacy:
    96% (male NA%, female NA%) age 15 and over can read and write (1970 est.)
Labor force:
    10,945,700; industry 38%, agriculture 28%, other 34% (1989)
Organized labor:
    until December 1989, a single trade union system organized by the General
    Confederation of Romanian Trade Unions (UGSR) under control of the Communist
    Party; since CEAUSESCU'S overthrow, newly created trade and professional
    trade unions are joining umbrella organizations, including the Organization
    of Free Trade Unions, Fratia (Brotherhood), and the Alfa Cartel; many other
    trade unions have been formed

:Romania Government

Long-form name:
    none
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Bucharest
Administrative divisions:
    40 counties (judete, singular - judet) and 1 municipality* (municipiu);
    Alba, Arad, Arges, Bacau, Bihor, Bistrita-Nasaud, Botosani, Braila, Brasov,
    Bucuresti*, Buzau, Calarasi, Caras-Severin, Cluj, Constanta, Covasna,
    Dimbovita, Dolj, Galati, Gorj, Giurgiu, Harghita, Hunedoara, Ialomita, Iasi,
    Maramures, Mehedinti, Mures, Neamt, Olt, Prahova, Salaj, Satu Mare, Sibiu,
    Suceava, Teleorman, Timis, Tulcea, Vaslui, Vilcea, Vrancea
Independence:
    1881 (from Turkey); republic proclaimed 30 December 1947
Constitution:
    8 December 1991
Legal system:
    former mixture of civil law system and Communist legal theory that
    increasingly reflected Romanian traditions is being revised
National holiday:
    National Day of Romania, 1 December (1990)
Executive branch:
    *** No entry for this item ***
    president, prime minister, Council of Ministers (cabinet)
Legislative branch:
    bicameral Parliament consists of an upper house or Senate (Senat) and a
    lower house or House of Deputies (Adunarea Deputatilor)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court of Justice
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Ion ILIESCU (since 20 June 1990, previously President of
    Provisional Council of National Unity since 23 December 1989)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Teodor STOLOJAN (since 2 October 1991)
Political parties and leaders:
    National Salvation Front (FSN), Petre ROMAN; Democratuc National Salvation
    Front (DNSF), Olivia GHERMAN; Magyar Democratic Union (UDMR), Geza DOMOKOS;
    National Liberal Party (PNL), Radu CAMPEANU; National Peasants' Christian
    and Democratic Party (PNTCD), Corneliu COPOSU; Ecology Movement (MER), Toma
    Gheorghe MAIORESCU; Romanian National Unity Party (PUNR), Radu CEONTEA;
    there are now more than 100 other parties; note - although the Communist
    Party has ceased to exist, small proto-Communist parties, notably the
    Socialist Labor Party, have been formed
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  President:
    last held 20 May 1990 (next to be held NA 1992); results - Ion ILIESCU 85%,
    Radu CAMPEANU 10.5%, Ion RATIU 3.8%
  Senate:
    last held 20 May 1990 (next to be held NA 1992); results - FSN 67%, other
    33%; seats - (118 total) FSN 92, UDMR 12, PNL 9, PUNR 2, PNTCD 1, MER 1,
    other 1
  House of Deputies:
    last held 20 May 1990 (next to be held NA 1992); results - FSN 66%, UDMR 7%,
    PNL 6%, MER 2%, PNTCD 2%, PUNR 2%, other 15%; seats - (387 total) FSN 263,
    UDMR 29, PNL 29, PNTCD 12, MER 12, PUNR 9, other 33

:Romania Government

Member of:
    BIS, CCC, CSCE, ECE, FAO, G-9, G-77, GATT, IAEA, IBEC, IBRD, ICAO, IFAD,
    IFC, IIB, ILO, IMF, IMO, INTERPOL, IOC, ITU, LORCS, NAM (guest), PCA, UN,
    UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Aurel MUNTEANU; Chancery at 1607 23rd Street NW, Washington, DC
    20008; telephone (202) 232-4747
  US:
    Ambassador John R. DAVIS; Embassy at Strada Tudor Arghezi 7-9, Bucharest
    (mailing address is APO AE 09213-5260); telephone [40] (0) 10-40-40; FAX
    [40] (0) 12-03-95
Flag:
    three equal vertical bands of blue (hoist side), yellow, and red; the
    national coat of arms that used to be centered in the yellow band has been
    removed; now similar to the flags of Andorra and Chad

:Romania Economy

Overview:
    Industry, which accounts for about one-third of the labor force and
    generates over half the GDP, suffers from an aging capital plant and
    persistent shortages of energy. The year 1991 witnessed about a 17% drop in
    industrial production because of energy and input shortages and labor
    unrest. In recent years the agricultural sector has had to contend with
    flooding, mismanagement, shortages of inputs, and disarray caused by the
    dismantling of cooperatives. A shortage of fuel and equipment in 1991
    contributed to a lackluster harvest, a problem compounded by corruption and
    a poor distribution system. The new government is loosening the tight
    central controls of CEAUSESCU'S command economy. It has instituted moderate
    land reforms, with more than one-half of cropland now in private hands, and
    it has liberalized private agricultural output. Also, the new regime is
    permitting the establishment of private enterprises, largely in services,
    handicrafts, and small-scale industry. A law providing for the privatization
    of large state firms has been passed. Most of the large state firms have
    been converted into joint-stock companies, but the selling of shares and
    assets to private owners has been delayed. While the government has halted
    the old policy of diverting food from domestic consumption to hard currency
    export markets, supplies remain scarce in some areas. Furthermore, real
    wages in Romania fell about 20% in 1991, contributing to the unrest which
    forced the resignation of ROMAN in September. The new government continues
    to impose price ceilings on key consumer items.
GDP:
    purchasing power equivalent - $71.9 billion, per capita $3,100; real growth
    rate - 12% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    215% (1991 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    4% (1991 est.)
Budget:
    revenues $19 billion; expenditures $20 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $2.1 billion (1991 est.)
Exports:
    $4.0 billion (f.o.b., 1991 est.)
  commodities:
    machinery and equipment 29.3%, fuels, minerals and metals 32.1%,
    manufactured consumer goods 18.1%, agricultural materials and forestry
    products 9.0%, other 11.5% (1989)
  partners:
    USSR 27%, Eastern Europe 23%, EC 15%, US 5%, China 4% (1987)
Imports:
    $5.4 billion (f.o.b., 1991 est.)
  commodities:
    fuels, minerals, and metals 56.0%, machinery and equipment 25.5%,
    agricultural and forestry products 8.6%, manufactured consumer goods 3.4%,
    other 6.5% (1989)
  partners:
    Communist countries 60%, non-Communist countries 40% (1987)
External debt:
    $2 billion (1991)
Industrial production:
    growth rate -17% (1991 est.)
Electricity:
    22,700,000 kW capacity; 64,200 million kWh produced, 2,760 kWh per capita
    (1990)
Industries:
    mining, timber, construction materials, metallurgy, chemicals, machine
    building, food processing, petroleum

:Romania Economy

Agriculture:
    accounts for 15% of GDP and 28% of labor force; major wheat and corn
    producer; other products - sugar beets, sunflower seed, potatoes, milk,
    eggs, meat, grapes
Illicit drugs:
    transshipment point for southwest Asian heroin transiting the Balkan route
Economic aid:
    donor - $4.4 billion in bilateral aid to non-Communist less developed
    countries (1956-89)
Currency:
    leu (plural - lei); 1 leu (L) = 100 bani
Exchange rates:
    lei (L) per US$1 - 198.00 (March 1992), 76.39 (1991), 22.432 (1990), 14.922
    (1989), 14.277 (1988), 14.557 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Romania Communications

Railroads:
    11,275 km total; 10,860 km 1.435-meter gauge, 370 km narrow gauge, 45 km
    broad gauge; 3,411 km electrified, 3,060 km double track; government owned
    (1987)
Highways:
    72,799 km total; 35,970 km paved; 27,729 km gravel, crushed stone, and other
    stabilized surfaces; 9,100 km unsurfaced roads (1985)
Inland waterways:
    1,724 km (1984)
Pipelines:
    crude oil 2,800 km, petroleum products 1,429 km, natural gas 6,400 km
Ports:
    Constanta, Galati, Braila, Mangalia; inland ports are Giurgiu, Drobeta-Turnu
    Severin, Orsova
Merchant marine:
    262 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 3,320,373 GRT/5,207,580 DWT; includes
    1 passenger-cargo, 174 cargo, 2 container, 1 rail-car carrier, 9
    roll-on/roll-off cargo, 13 petroleum tanker, 60 bulk, 2 combination ore/oil
Civil air:
    59 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    165 total, 165 usable; 25 with permanent-surface runways; 15 with runways
    2,440-3,659 m; 15 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    poor service; about 2.3 million telephone customers; 89% of phone network is
    automatic; cable and open wire; trunk network is microwave; present phone
    density is 9.85 per 100 residents; roughly 3,300 villages with no service
    (February 1990); broadcast stations - 12 AM, 5 FM, 13 TV (1990); 1 satellite
    ground station using INTELSAT

:Romania Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Navy, Air and Air Defense Forces, Paramilitary Forces, Civil Defense
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 5,799,837; 4,909,642 fit for military service; 184,913 reach
    military age (20) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - 50 billion lei (unofficial), NA% of GDP (1991);
    note - conversion of defense expenditures into US dollars using the current
    exchange rate could produce misleading results

:Russia Geography

Total area:
    17,075,200 km2
Land area:
    16,995,800 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly more than 1.8 times the size of the US
Land boundaries:
    20,139 km total; Azerbaijan 284 km, Belarus 959 km, China (southeast) 3,605
    km, China (south) 40 km, Estonia 290 km, Finland 1,313 km, Georgia 723 km,
    Kazakhstan 6,846 km, North Korea 19 km, Latvia 217 km, Lithuania
    (Kaliningrad Oblast) 227 km, Mongolia 3,441 km, Norway 167 km, Poland
    (Kaliningrad Oblast) 432 km, Ukraine 1,576 km
Coastline:
    37,653 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    NA nm
  Continental shelf:
    200-meter depth or to depth of exploitation
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Exclusive fishing zone:
    NA nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    inherited disputes from former USSR including: sections of the boundary with
    China, a section of the boundary with Tajikistan; boundary with Latvia,
    Lithuania, and Estonia; Etorofu, Kunashiri, and Shikotan Islands and the
    Habomai island group occupied by the Soviet Union in 1945, claimed by Japan;
    maritime dispute with Norway over portion of the Barents Sea; has made no
    territorial claim in Antarctica (but has reserved the right to do so) and
    does not recognize the claims of any other nation
Climate:
    ranges from steppes in the south through humid continental in much of
    European Russia; subarctic in Siberia to tundra climate in the polar north;
    winters vary from cool along Black Sea coast to frigid in Siberia; summers
    vary from warm in the steppes to cool along Arctic coast
Terrain:
    broad plain with low hills west of Urals; vast coniferous forest and tundra
    in Siberia; uplands and mountains along southern border regions
Natural resources:
    wide natural resource base including major deposits of oil, natural gas,
    coal, and many strategic minerals; timber; note - formidable obstacles of
    climate, terrain, and distance hinder exploitation of natural resources
Land use:
    NA% arable land; NA% permanent crops; NA% meadows and pastures; NA% forest
    and woodland; NA% other; includes NA% irrigated
Environment:
    despite its size, only a small percentage of land is arable and much is too
    far north; permafrost over much of Siberia is a major impediment to
    development; catastrophic pollution of land, air, water, including both
    inland waterways and sea coasts
Note:
    largest country in the world in terms of area but unfavorably located in
    relation to major sea lanes of the world

:Russia People

Population:
    149,527,479 (July 1992), growth rate 0.4% (1992)
Birth rate:
    15 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    11 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    1 migrant/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    31 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    63 years male, 74 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    2.1 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Russian(s); adjective - Russian
Ethnic divisions:
    Estonian NA%, Latvian NA%, Lithuanian NA%, Russian NA%, other NA%
Religions:
    Russian Orthodox NA%, unknown NA%, none NA%, other NA%
Languages:
    Estonian NA%, Latvian NA%, Lithuanian NA%, Russian NA%, other NA%
Literacy:
    NA% (male NA%, female NA%) age 15 and over can read and write
Labor force:
    78,682,000 (1989); industry and construction 43.0%, agriculture and forestry
    13.0%, transport and communication 7.9%, trade and distribution 7.9%, other
    28.2%
Organized labor:
    NA

:Russia Government

Long-form name:
    Russian Federation
Type:
    federation
Capital:
    Moscow
Administrative divisions:
    20 autonomous republics (avtomnykh respublik, singular - automnaya
    respublika); Adygea (Maykop), Bashkortostan (Ufa), Buryatia (Ulan-Ude),
    Checheno-Ingushetia (Groznyy), Chuvashia (Cheboksary), Dagestan
    (Makhachkala), Gorno-Altay (Gorno-Altaysk), Kabardino-Balkaria (Nal`chik),
    Kalmykia (Elista), Karachay-Cherkessia (Cherkessk), Karelia (Petrozavodsk),
    Khakassia (Abakan), Komi (Syktyvkar), Mari El (Yoshkar-Ola), Mordvinia
    (Saransk), North Ossetia (Vladikavkaz; formerly Ordzhonikidze), Tatarstan
    (Kazan'), Tuva (Kyzyl), Udmurtia (Izhevsk), Yakutia (Yakutsk); 49 oblasts
    (oblastey, singular - oblast'); Amur (Blagoveshchensk), Arkhangel'sk,
    Astrakhan', Belgorod, Bryansk, Chelyabinsk, Chita, Irkutsk, Ivanovo,
    Kaliningrad, Kaluga, Kamchata (Petropavlovsk-Kamchatskiy), Kemerovo, Kirov,
    Kostroma, Kurgan, Kursk, Leningrad (St. Petersburg), Lipetsk, Magadan,
    Moscow, Murmansk, Nizhegorod (Nizhniy Novgorod; formerly Gor'kiy), Novgorod,
    Novosibirsk, Omsk, Orel, Orenburg, Penza, Perm', Pskov, Rostov, Ryazan',
    Sakhalin (Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk), Samara (formerly Kuybyshev), Saratov,
    Smolensk, Sverdlovsk (Yekaterinburg), Tambov, Tomsk, Tula, Tver' (formerly
    Kalinin), Tyumen', Ul'yanovsk, Vladmir, Volgograd, Vologda, Voronezh,
    Yaroslavl'; 6 krays (krayer, singular - kray); Altay (Barnaul), Khabarovsk,
    Krasnodar, Krasnoyarsk, Primorskiy (Vladivostok), Stavropol; note - the
    cities of Moscow and St. Petersburg have oblast status; an administrative
    division has the same name as its administrative center (exceptions have the
    administrative center name following in parentheses); it is possible that 4
    more administrative divisions will be added
Independence:
    24 August 1991, declared by Supreme Council (from Soviet Union; formerly
    Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic); 1 December 1991 referendum on
    independence passed
Constitution:
    a new constitution is in the process of being drafted
Legal system:
    based on civil law system; judicial review of legislative acts; does not
    accept compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
National holiday:
    NA
Executive branch:
    president, vice president, Security Council, President's Administration,
    Council of Ministers
Legislative branch:
    Congress of People's Deputies, Supreme Soviet
Judicial branch:
    Constitutional Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State and Head of Government:
    *** No entry for this item ***
    President Boris YEL'TSIN (since 12 June 1991), Vice President Aleksandr
    RUTSKOY (since 12 June 1991), State Secretary Gennadiy BURBULIS (since July
    1991); 1st Deputy Chairman of the Council of Ministers Yegor GAYDAR (since
    March 1992), 2nd Deputy Chairman of the Council of Ministers Aleksandr
    SHOKHIN (since 7 November 1991)

:Russia Government

Political parties and leaders:
    Democratic Russia, A. Lev PONOMAREV and Gleb YAKUNIN, cochairmen; Democratic
    Party of Russia, Nikolay TRAVKIN, chairman; People's Party of Free Russia,
    Aleksandr RUTSKOY, chairman; Russian Movement for Democratic Reforms,
    Gavriil POPOV, chairman
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  President:
    last held 12 June 1991 (next to be held 1996); results - percent of vote by
    party NA%
  Congress of People's Deputies:
    last held March 1990 (next to be held 1995); results - percent of vote by
    party NA%; seats - (1,063 total) number of seats by party NA
  Supreme Soviet:
    last held May 1990 (next to be held 1995); results - percent of vote by
    party NA%; seats - (252 total) number of seats by party NA
Communists:
    NA
Other political or pressure groups:
    NA
Member of:
    CIS, CSCE, ESCAP, ECE, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, IMF, INTERPOL, IMO,
    INMARSAT, IOC, ISO, ITU, LORCS, NACC, NSG, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNTSO,
    UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZG
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador LUKIN; Chancery at 1125 16th Street NW, Washington, DC 20036;
    telephone (202) 628-7551
  US:
    Ambassador Robert S. STRAUSS; Embassy at Ulitsa Chaykovskogo 19/21/23,
    Moscow (mailing address is APO AE 09721); telephone [7] (095) 252-2450
    through 59; there is a consulate at St. Petersburg (formerly Leningrad);
    future consulates will be in Yekaterinburg and Vladivostok
Flag:
    tricolor; three equal bands of white (top), blue, red (bottom)

:Russia Economy

Overview:
    Russia, one of the world's largest economies, possesses a wealth of natural
    resources and a diverse industrial base. Within the now-dismantled USSR, it
    had produced 60% of total output, with 55% of the total labor force and 60%
    of the total capital stock. Russia depends on its world-class deposits of
    oil and gas not only for its own needs but also for vital hard currency
    earnings. Self-sufficient in coal and iron ore, it has a crude steel
    production capacity of about 95 million tons, second only to Japan. Russia's
    machine-building sector - 60% of the old USSR's - lags behind world
    standards of efficiency and quality of product. Other major industrial
    sectors - chemicals, construction materials, light industry, and food
    processing - also suffer from quality problems, obsolescent capital
    equipment, and pollution. Consumer goods have had lower priority, and the
    product mix has not mirrored household preferences. Furthermore, the
    transition to a more market-oriented economy has disrupted channels of
    supply to factories and distribution outlets; substantial imports of foods
    and medical supplies have helped maintain minimum standards of consumption.
    Russia inherited 70% of the former USSR's defense production facilities and
    is experiencing major social problems during conversion of many of these
    plants to civilian production. Russia produces almost half of the old USSR's
    farm products, but most warm-climate crops must be imported. Under the old
    USSR, production of industrial and agricultural goods often was concentrated
    in a single firm or a single republic. Today, producing units often have
    lost their major customers and their major sources of supply, and the market
    institutions and incentives for adjusting to the new political and economic
    situations are only slowly emerging. Rank-and-file Russians will continue to
    suffer major deprivations in 1992 and beyond before the country begins to
    realize its great economic potential. The comprehensive economic reform
    program enacted in January 1992 faces many economic and political hurdles
    before it will lead to sustained economic growth.
GDP:
    purchasing power equivalent - $NA, per capita $NA; real growth rate - 9%
    (1991)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    89% (1991)
Unemployment rate:
    NA%
Budget:
    NA
Exports:
    $58.7 billion (f.o.b., 1991)
  commodities:
    petroleum and petroleum products, natural gas, wood and wood products, coal,
    nonferrous metals, chemicals, and a wide variety of civilian and military
    manufactures
  partners:
    Western Europe, Japan, Eastern Europe
Imports:
    $43.5 billion (c.i.f., 1991)
  commodities:
    machinery and equipment, chemicals, consumer goods, grain, meat,
    semifinished metal products
  partners:
    Western and Eastern Europe, Japan, Third World countries, Cuba
External debt:
    $40 billion (end of 1991 est.)
Industrial production:
    -8% after adjustment for inflation due to shift to more expensive products,
    -2% before this adjustment (1991)

:Russia Economy

Electricity:
    42,500 MW capacity; 1,100 billion kWh produced, 7,430 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    complete range of mining and extractive industries producing coal, oil, gas,
    chemicals, and metals; all forms of machine building from rolling mills to
    high-performance aircraft and space vehicles; ship- building; road and rail
    transportation equipment; communications equipment; agricultural machinery,
    tractors, and construction equipment; electric power generating and
    transmitting equipment; medical and scientific instruments; consumer
    durables
Agriculture:
    grain, meat, milk, vegetables, fruits; because of its northern location
    Russia does not grow citrus, cotton, tea, and other warm climate products
Illicit drugs:
    illicit producers of cannabis and opium; mostly for domestic consumption;
    government has active eradication program; used as transshipment point for
    illicit drugs to Western Europe
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-87), $NA; Western (non-US) countries,
    ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-86), $NA; Communist countries
    (1971-86), $NA million
Currency:
    ruble (plural - rubles); 1 ruble (R) = 100 kopeks
Exchange rates:
    150 rubles per US$1 (20 July 1992) but subject to wide fluctuations
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Russia Communications

Railroads:
    87,180 km all 1.520-meter broad gauge (includes NA km electrified); does not
    include industrial lines (1990)
Highways:
    879,100 km total (1990); 652,500 km hard-surfaced, 226,600 km earth
Inland waterways:
    NA km perennially navigable
Pipelines:
    crude oil and petroleum products 68,400 km, natural gas NA km
Ports:
    maritime - St. Petersburg (Leningrad), Kaliningrad, Murmansk, Arkhangel'sk,
    Novorossiysk, Vladivostok, Nakhodka, Kholmsk, Korsakov, Magadan, Tiksi,
    Tuapse, Vanino, Vostochnyy, Vyborg; inland - Astrakhan', Nizhniy Novgorod
    (Gor'kiy), Kazan', Khabarovsk, Krasnoyarsk, Samara (Kuybyshev), Moscow,
    Rostov, Volgograd
Merchant marine:
    842 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 8,151,393 GRT/11,308,812 DWT;
    includes 494 cargo, 39 container, 2 barge carrier, 3 roll-on/float-off, 69
    roll-on/roll-off, 131 petroleum tanker, 53 bulk cargo, 9 chemical tanker, 2
    specialized liquid carriers, 17 combination ore/oil, 23 passenger
Civil air:
    NA major transport aircraft
Airports:
    NA total, NA usable; NA with permanent-surface runways; NA with runways over
    3,659 m; NA with runways 2,440-3,659 m; NA with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    the telephone system is inadequate for a large industrial country,
    consisting of about 36 million lines of which only about 3% are switched
    automatically; as of 31 January 1990, 10.8 million applications for
    telephones for household use could not be satisfied; telephone density is 11
    per 100 persons; international connections are made via satellite, land
    line, microwave, and outdated submarine cables, and are generally
    unsatisfactory; the international gateway switch in Moscow handles
    international traffic for the other former Soviet republics as well as for
    Russia; broadcast stations - 1,050 AM/FM/SW (reach 98.6% of population), 310
    TV (580 repeaters) (reach 98% of population); satellite ground stations -
    INTELSAT, Intersputnik, INMARSAT, Orbita

:Russia Defense Forces

Branches:
    Russian defence forces will be comprised of those ground-, air-, and
    sea-based conventional assets currently on Russian soil and those scheduled
    to be withdrawn from other countries; strategic forces will remain under CIS
    control
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 36,288,000; 27,216,000 fit for military service; 1,020,341
    reach military age (18) annually
Defense expenditures:
    $NA, NA% of GDP

:Rwanda Geography

Total area:
    26,340 km2
Land area:
    24,950 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than Maryland
Land boundaries:
    893 km total; Burundi 290 km, Tanzania 217 km, Uganda 169 km, Zaire 217 km
Coastline:
    none - landlocked
Maritime claims:
    none - landlocked
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    temperate; two rainy seasons (February to April, November to January); mild
    in mountains with frost and snow possible
Terrain:
    mostly grassy uplands and hills; mountains in west
Natural resources:
    gold, cassiterite (tin ore), wolframite (tungsten ore), natural gas,
    hydropower
Land use:
    arable land 29%; permanent crops 11%; meadows and pastures 18%; forest and
    woodland 10%; other 32%; includes irrigated NEGL%
Environment:
    deforestation; overgrazing; soil exhaustion; soil erosion; periodic droughts
Note:
    landlocked

:Rwanda People

Population:
    8,206,446 (July 1992), growth rate 3.8% (1992)
Birth rate:
    52 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    14 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    108 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    51 years male, 55 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    8.3 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Rwandan(s); adjective - Rwandan
Ethnic divisions:
    Hutu 90%, Tutsi 9%, Twa (Pygmoid) 1%
Religions:
    Roman Catholic 65%, Protestant 9%, Muslim 1%, indigenous beliefs and other
    25%
Languages:
    Kinyarwanda, French (official); Kiswahili used in commercial centers
Literacy:
    50% (male 64%, female 37%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    3,600,000; agriculture 93%, government and services 5%, industry and
    commerce 2%; 49% of population of working age (1985)
Organized labor:
    NA

:Rwanda Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Rwanda
Type:
    republic; presidential system in which military leaders hold key offices; on
    31 December 1990, the government announced a National Political Charter to
    serve as a basis for transition to a presidential/parliamentary political
    system; the 1978 constitution was replaced in June 1991 via popular
    referendum by a new constitution creating a multiparty system with a
    president and prime minister
Capital:
    Kigali
Administrative divisions:
    10 prefectures (prefectures, singular - prefecture in French; plural - NA,
    singular - prefegitura in Kinyarwanda); Butare, Byumba, Cyangugu, Gikongoro,
    Gisenyi, Gitarama, Kibungo, Kibuye, Rigali, Ruhengeri
Independence:
    1 July 1962 (from UN trusteeship under Belgian administration)
Constitution:
    18 June 1991
Legal system:
    based on German and Belgian civil law systems and customary law; judicial
    review of legislative acts in the Supreme Court; has not accepted compulsory
    ICJ jurisdiction
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 1 July (1962)
Executive branch:
    president, prime minister, Council of Ministers (cabinet)
Legislative branch:
    unicameral National Development Council (Conseil National de Developpement)
Judicial branch:
    Constitutional Court (consists of the Court of Cassation and the Council of
    State in joint session)
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Maj. Gen. Juvenal HABYARIMANA (since 5 July 1973)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Sylvestre NSANZIMANA (since NA October 1991)
Political parties and leaders:
    Republican Revolutionary Movement for Democracy and Development (MRND), Maj.
    Gen. Juvenal HABYARIMANA; formerly a one-party state, Rwanda legalized
    independent parties in mid-1991; since then, at least 10 new political
    parties have registered; President HABYARIMANA's political movement - the
    National Revolutionary Movement for Development (MRND) - reorganized itself
    as a political party and changed its name to the Republican National
    Movement for Democracy and Development (but kept the same initials - MRND);
    significant independent parties include: Democratic Republican Movement
    (MDR), leader NA; Liberal Party (PL), leader NA; Democratic and Socialist
    Party (PSD), leader NA; note - since October 1990, Rwanda has been involved
    in a low-intensity conflict with the Rwandan Patriotic Front/Rwandan
    Patriotic Army (RPF/RPA); the RPF/RPA is primarily an ethnically based
    organization
Suffrage:
    universal adult, exact age NA
Elections:
  President:
    last held 19 December 1988 (next to be held NA December 1993); results -
    President Maj. Gen. Juvenal HABYARIMANA reelected

:Rwanda Government

  National Development Council:
    last held 19 December 1988 (next to be held NA December 1993); results -
    MRND is the only party; seats - (70 total) MRND 70
Member of:
    ACCT, ACP, AfDB, ECA, CCC, CEEAC, CEPGL, FAO, G-77, GATT, IBRD, ICAO, IDA,
    IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, ITU, LORCS, NAM, OAU, UN,
    UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Aloys UWIMANA; Chancery at 1714 New Hampshire Avenue NW,
    Washington, DC 20009; telephone (202) 232-2882
  US:
    Ambassador Robert A. FLATEN; Embassy at Boulevard de la Revolution, Kigali
    (mailing address is B. P. 28, Kigali); telephone [250] 75601 through 75603;
    FAX [250] 72128
Flag:
    three equal vertical bands of red (hoist side), yellow, and green with a
    large black letter R
    centered in the yellow band; uses the popular pan-African colors of
    Ethiopia; similar to the flag of Guinea, which has a plain yellow band

:Rwanda Economy

Overview:
    Almost 50% of GDP comes from the agricultural sector; coffee and tea make up
    80-90% of total exports. The amount of fertile land is limited, however, and
    deforestation and soil erosion have created problems. The industrial sector
    in Rwanda is small, contributing only 17% to GDP. Manufacturing focuses
    mainly on the processing of agricultural products. The Rwandan economy
    remains dependent on coffee exports and foreign aid. Weak international
    prices since 1986 have caused the economy to contract and per capita GDP to
    decline. A structural adjustment program with the World Bank began in
    October 1990. An outbreak of insurgency, also in October, has dampened any
    prospects for economic improvement.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $2.1 billion, per capita $300; real growth rate
    -6.8% (1990 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    4.2% (1990)
Unemployment rate:
    NA%
Budget:
    revenues $391 million; expenditures $491 million, including capital
    expenditures of $225 million (1989 est.)
Exports:
    $111.7 million (f.o.b., 1990 est.)
  commodities:
    coffee 85%, tea, tin, cassiterite, wolframite, pyrethrum
  partners:
    Germany, Belgium, Italy, Uganda, UK, France, US
Imports:
    $279.2 million (f.o.b., 1990 est.)
  commodities:
    textiles, foodstuffs, machines and equipment, capital goods, steel,
    petroleum products, cement and construction material
  partners:
    US, Belgium, Germany, Kenya, Japan
External debt:
    $911 million (1990 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 1.2% (1988); accounts for 17% of GDP
Electricity:
    30,000 kW capacity; 130 million kWh produced, 15 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    mining of cassiterite (tin ore) and wolframite (tungsten ore), tin, cement,
    agricultural processing, small-scale beverage production, soap, furniture,
    shoes, plastic goods, textiles, cigarettes
Agriculture:
    accounts for almost 50% of GDP and about 90% of the labor force; cash crops
    - coffee, tea, pyrethrum (insecticide made from chrysanthemums); main food
    crops - bananas, beans, sorghum, potatoes; stock raising; self-sufficiency
    declining; country imports foodstuffs as farm production fails to keep up
    with a 3.8% annual growth in population
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $128 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $2.0 billion; OPEC
    bilateral aid (1979-89), $45 million; Communist countries (1970-89), $58
    million; note - in October 1990 Rwanda launched a Structural Adjustment
    Program with the IMF; since September 1991, the EC has given $46 million and
    the US $25 million in support of this program
Currency:
    Rwandan franc (plural - francs); 1 Rwandan franc (RF) = 100 centimes

:Rwanda Economy

Exchange rates:
    Rwandan francs (RF) per US$1 - 121.40 (January 1992), 125.14 (1991), 82.60
    (1990), 79.98 (1989), 76.45 (1988), 79.67 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Rwanda Communications

Highways:
    4,885 km total; 460 km paved, 1,725 km gravel and/or improved earth, 2,700
    km unimproved
Inland waterways:
    Lac Kivu navigable by shallow-draft barges and native craft
Civil air:
    2 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    8 total, 8 usable; 3 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways over
    3,659 m; 1 with runway 2,440-3,659 m;2 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    fair system with low-capacity radio relay system centered on Kigali;
    broadcast stations - 2 AM, 1 (7 repeaters) FM, no TV; satellite earth
    stations - 1 Indian Ocean INTELSAT and 1 SYMPHONIE

:Rwanda Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army (including Air Wing), Gendarmerie
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 1,719,936; 876,659 fit for military service; no conscription
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $37 million, 1.6% of GDP (1988 est.)

:Saint Helena Geography

Total area:
    410 km2
Land area:
    410 km2; includes Ascension, Gough Island, Inaccessible Island, Nightingale
    Island, and Tristan da Cunha
Comparative area:
    slightly more than 2.3 times the size of Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    60 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive fishing zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    tropical; marine; mild, tempered by trade winds
Terrain:
    rugged, volcanic; small scattered plateaus and plains
Natural resources:
    fish; Ascension is a breeding ground for sea turtles and sooty terns; no
    minerals
Land use:
    arable land 7%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 7%; forest and
    woodland 3%; other 83%
Environment:
    very few perennial streams
Note:
    located 1,920 km west of Angola, about two-thirds of the way between South
    America and Africa; Napoleon Bonaparte's place of exile and burial; the
    remains were taken to Paris in 1840

:Saint Helena People

Population:
    6,698 (July 1992), growth rate 0.3% (1992)
Birth rate:
    10 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    7 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    40 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    72 years male, 76 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    1.2 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Saint Helenian(s); adjective - Saint Helenian
Ethnic divisions:
    NA
Religions:
    Anglican majority; also Baptist, Seventh-Day Adventist, and Roman Catholic
Languages:
    English
Literacy:
    98% (male 97%, female 98%) age 15 and over can read and write (1987)
Labor force:
    NA
Organized labor:
    Saint Helena General Workers' Union, 472 members; crafts 17%, professional
    and technical 10%, service 10%, management and clerical 9%, farming and
    fishing 9%, transport 6%, sales 5%, and other 34%

:Saint Helena Government

Long-form name:
    none
Type:
    dependent territory of the UK
Capital:
    Jamestown
Administrative divisions:
    1 administrative area and 2 dependencies*; Ascension*, Saint Helena, Tristan
    da Cunha*
Independence:
    none (dependent territory of the UK)
Constitution:
    1 January 1967
Legal system:
    NA
National holiday:
    Celebration of the Birthday of the Queen (second Saturday in June), 10 June
    1989
Executive branch:
    British monarch, governor, Executive Council (cabinet)
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Legislative Council
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952)
  Head of Government:
    Governor A. N. HOOLE
Political parties and leaders:
    Saint Helena Labor Party, leader NA; Saint Helena Progressive Party, leader
    NA; note - both political parties inactive since 1976
Suffrage:
    NA
Elections:
  Legislative Council:
    last held October 1984 (next to be held NA); results - percent of vote by
    party NA; seats - (15 total, 12 elected) number of seats by party NA
Member of:
    ICFTU
Diplomatic representation:
    none (dependent territory of the UK)
Flag:
    blue with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side quadrant and the Saint
    Helenian shield centered on the outer half of the flag; the shield features
    a rocky coastline and three-masted sailing ship

:Saint Helena Economy

Overview:
    The economy depends primarily on financial assistance from the UK. The local
    population earns some income from fishing, the rearing of livestock, and
    sales of handicrafts. Because there are few jobs, a large proportion of the
    work force has left to seek employment overseas.
GDP:
    $NA, per capita $NA; real growth rate NA%
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    -1.1% (1986)
Unemployment rate:
    NA%
Budget:
    revenues $3.2 million; expenditures $2.9 million, including capital
    expenditures of NA (1984)
Exports:
    $23.9 thousand (f.o.b., 1984)
  commodities:
    fish (frozen and salt-dried skipjack, tuna), handicrafts
  partners:
    South Africa, UK
Imports:
    $2.4 million (c.i.f., 1984)
  commodities:
    food, beverages, tobacco, fuel oils, animal feed, building materials, motor
    vehicles and parts, machinery and parts
  partners:
    UK, South Africa
External debt:
    $NA
Industrial production:
    growth rate NA%
Electricity:
    9,800 kW capacity; 10 million kWh produced, 1,390 kWh per capita (1989)
Industries:
    crafts (furniture, lacework, fancy woodwork), fish
Agriculture:
    maize, potatoes, vegetables; timber production being developed; crawfishing
    on Tristan da Cunha
Economic aid:
    Western (non-US) countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89),
    $198 million
Currency:
    Saint Helenian pound (plural - pounds); 1 Saint Helenian pound (#S) = 100
    pence
Exchange rates:
    Saint Helenian pounds (#S) per US$1 - 0.5799 (March 1992), 0.5652 (1991),
    0.6099 (1989), 0.5614 (1988), 0.6102 (1987); note - the Saint Helenian pound
    is at par with the British pound
Fiscal year:
    1 April - 31 March

:Saint Helena Communications

Highways:
    87 km paved roads, 20 km earth roads on Saint Helena; 80 km paved roads on
    Ascension; 2.7 km paved roads on Tristan da Cunha
Ports:
    Jamestown (Saint Helena), Georgetown (Ascension)
Airports:
    1 with permanent-surface runway 2,440-3,659 m on Ascension
Telecommunications:
    1,500 radio receivers; broadcast stations - 1 AM, no FM, no TV; 550
    telephones in automatic network; HF radio links to Ascension, then into
    worldwide submarine cable and satellite networks; major coaxial submarine
    cable relay point between South Africa, Portugal, and UK at Ascension; 2
    Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT earth stations

:Saint Helena Defense Forces

Note:
    defense is the responsibility of the UK

:Saint Kitts and Nevis Geography

Total area:
    269 km2
Land area:
    269 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly more than 1.5 times the size of Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    135 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    24 nm
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    subtropical tempered by constant sea breezes; little seasonal temperature
    variation; rainy season (May to November)
Terrain:
    volcanic with mountainous interiors
Natural resources:
    negligible
Land use:
    arable land 22%; permanent crops 17%; meadows and pastures 3%; forest and
    woodland 17%; other 41%
Environment:
    subject to hurricanes (July to October)
Note:
    located 320 km east-southeast of Puerto Rico

:Saint Kitts and Nevis People

Population:
    40,061 (July 1992), growth rate 0.3% (1992)
Birth rate:
    22 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    10 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    -9 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    22 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    63 years male, 69 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    2.4 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Kittsian(s), Nevisian(s); adjective - Kittsian, Nevisian
Ethnic divisions:
    mainly of black African descent
Religions:
    Anglican, other Protestant sects, Roman Catholic
Languages:
    English
Literacy:
    98% (male 98%, female 98%) age 15 and over having ever attended school
    (1970)
Labor force:
    20,000 (1981)
Organized labor:
    6,700

:Saint Kitts and Nevis Government

Long-form name:
    Federation of Saint Kitts and Nevis; formerly Federation of Saint
    Christopher and Nevis
Type:
    constitutional monarchy
Capital:
    Basseterre
Administrative divisions:
    14 parishs; Christ Church Nichola Town, Saint Anne Sandy Point, Saint George
    Basseterre, Saint George Gingerland, Saint James Windward, Saint John
    Capisterre, Saint John Figtree, Saint Mary Cayon, Saint Paul Capisterre,
    Saint Paul Charlestown, Saint Peter Basseterre, Saint Thomas Lowland, Saint
    Thomas Middle Island, Trinity Palmetto Point
Independence:
    19 September 1983 (from UK)
Constitution:
    19 September 1983
Legal system:
    based on English common law
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 19 September (1983)
Executive branch:
    British monarch, governor general, prime minister, deputy prime minister,
    Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    unicameral House of Assembly
Judicial branch:
    Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952), represented by Governor General
    Sir Clement Athelston ARRINDELL (since 19 September 1983, previously
    Governor General of the Associated State since NA November 1981)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Dr. Kennedy Alphonse SIMMONDS (since 19 September 1983,
    previously Premier of the Associated State since NA February 1980); Deputy
    Prime Minister Michael Oliver POWELL (since NA)
Political parties and leaders:
    People's Action Movement (PAM), Kennedy SIMMONDS; Saint Kitts and Nevis
    Labor Party (SKNLP), Dr. Denzil DOUGLAS; Nevis Reformation Party (NRP),
    Simeon DANIEL; Concerned Citizens Movement (CCM), Vance AMORY
Suffrage:
    universal adult at age NA
Elections:
  House of Assembly:
    last held 21 March 1989 (next to be held by 21 March 1994); results -
    percent of vote by party NA; seats - (14 total, 11 elected) PAM 6, SKNLP 2,
    NRP 2, CCM 1
Member of:
    ACP, C, CARICOM, CDB, ECLAC, FAO, IBRD, ICFTU, IDA, IFAD, IMF, INTERPOL,
    OAS, OECS, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WHO
Diplomatic representation:
    Minister-Counselor (Deputy Chief of Mission), Charge d'Affaires ad interim
    Aubrey Eric HART; Chancery at Suite 608, 2100 M Street NW, Washington, DC
    20037; telephone (202) 833-3550
  US:
    no official presence since the Charge resides in Saint John's (Antigua and
    Barbuda)

:Saint Kitts and Nevis Government

Flag:
    divided diagonally from the lower hoist side by a broad black band bearing
    two white five-pointed stars; the black band is edged in yellow; the upper
    triangle is green, the lower triangle is red

:Saint Kitts and Nevis Economy

Overview:
    The economy has historically depended on the growing and processing of
    sugarcane and on remittances from overseas workers. In recent years, tourism
    and export-oriented manufacturing have assumed larger roles.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $146.6 million, per capita $3,650; real growth
    rate 2.1% (1990)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    4.2% (1990)
Unemployment rate:
    15% (1989)
Budget:
    revenues $38.1 million; expenditures $68 million, including capital
    expenditures of $31.5 million (1991)
Exports:
    $24.6 million (f.o.b., 1990)
  commodities:
    sugar, clothing, electronics, postage stamps
  partners:
    US 53%, UK 22%, Trinidad and Tobago 5%, OECS 5% (1988)
Imports:
    $103.2 million (f.o.b., 1990)
  commodities:
    foodstuffs, intermediate manufactures, machinery, fuels
  partners:
    US 36%, UK 17%, Trinidad and Tobago 6%, Canada 3%, Japan 3%, OECS 4% (1988)
External debt:
    $26.4 million (1988)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 11.8% (1988 est.); accounts for 17% of GDP
Electricity:
    15,800 kW capacity; 45 million kWh produced, 1,117 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    sugar processing, tourism, cotton, salt, copra, clothing, footwear,
    beverages
Agriculture:
    cash crop - sugarcane; subsistence crops - rice, yams, vegetables, bananas;
    fishing potential not fully exploited; most food imported
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY85-88), $10.7 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $67 million
Currency:
    East Caribbean dollar (plural - dollars); 1 EC dollar (EC$) = 100 cents
Exchange rates:
    East Caribbean dollars (EC$) per US$1 - 2.70 (fixed rate since 1976)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Saint Kitts and Nevis Communications

Railroads:
    58 km 0.760-meter gauge on Saint Kitts for sugarcane
Highways:
    300 km total; 125 km paved, 125 km otherwise improved, 50 km unimproved
    earth
Ports:
    Basseterre (Saint Kitts), Charlestown (Nevis)
Civil air:
    no major transport aircraft
Airports:
    2 total, 2 usable; 2 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways over
    3,659 m; 1 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; none with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    good interisland VHF/UHF/SHF radio connections and international link via
    Antigua and Barbuda and Saint Martin; 2,400 telephones; broadcast stations -
    2 AM, no FM, 4 TV

:Saint Kitts and Nevis Defense Forces

Branches:
    Royal Saint Kitts and Nevis Police Force, Coast Guard
Manpower availability:
    NA
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $NA, NA% of GDP

:Saint Lucia Geography

Total area:
    620 km2
Land area:
    610 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly less than 3.5 times the size of Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    158 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    24 nm
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    tropical, moderated by northeast trade winds; dry season from January to
    April, rainy season from May to August
Terrain:
    volcanic and mountainous with some broad, fertile valleys
Natural resources:
    forests, sandy beaches, minerals (pumice), mineral springs, geothermal
    potential
Land use:
    arable land 8%; permanent crops 20%; meadows and pastures 5%; forest and
    woodland 13%; other 54%; includes irrigated 2%
Environment:
    subject to hurricanes and volcanic activity; deforestation; soil erosion
Note:
    located 700 km southeast of Puerto Rico

:Saint Lucia People

Population:
    151,774 (July 1992), growth rate 1.7% (1992)
Birth rate:
    26 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    5 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    -4 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    18 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    70 years male, 75 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    2.8 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Saint Lucian(s); adjective - Saint Lucian
Ethnic divisions:
    African descent 90.3%, mixed 5.5%, East Indian 3.2%, Caucasian 0.8%
Religions:
    Roman Catholic 90%, Protestant 7%, Anglican 3%
Languages:
    English (official), French patois
Literacy:
    67% (male 65%, female 69%) age 15 and over having ever attended school
    (1980)
Labor force:
    43,800; agriculture 43.4%, services 38.9%, industry and commerce 17.7% (1983
    est.)
Organized labor:
    20% of labor force

:Saint Lucia Government

Long-form name:
    none
Type:
    parliamentary democracy
Capital:
    Castries
Administrative divisions:
    11 quarters; Anse-la-Raye, Castries, Choiseul, Dauphin, Dennery, Gros-Islet,
    Laborie, Micoud, Praslin, Soufriere, Vieux-Fort
Independence:
    22 February 1979 (from UK)
Constitution:
    22 February 1979
Legal system:
    based on English common law
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 22 February (1979)
Executive branch:
    British monarch, governor general, prime minister, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    bicameral Parliament consists of an upper house or Senate and a lower house
    or House of Assembly
Judicial branch:
    Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952), represented by Acting Governor
    General Sir Stanislaus Anthony JAMES (since 10 October 1988)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister John George Melvin COMPTON (since 3 May 1982)
Political parties and leaders:
    United Workers' Party (UWP), John COMPTON; Saint Lucia Labor Party (SLP),
    Julian HUNTE; Progressive Labor Party (PLP), George ODLUM
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  House of Assembly:
    last held 6 April 1987 (next to be held by 27 April 1992); results - percent
    of vote by party NA; seats - (17 total) UWP 10, SLP 7
Member of:
    ACCT (associate), ACP, C, CARICOM, CDB, ECLAC, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU,
    IDA, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INTERPOL, LORCS, NAM, OAS, OECS, UN, UNCTAD,
    UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WHO, WMO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Dr. Joseph Edsel EDMUNDS; Chancery at Suite 309, 2100 M Street
    NW, Washington, DC 30037; telephone (202) 463-7378 or 7379; there is a Saint
    Lucian Consulate General in New York
  US:
    no official presence since the Ambassador resides in Bridgetown (Barbados)
Flag:
    blue with a gold isosceles triangle below a black arrowhead; the upper edges
    of the arrowhead have a white border

:Saint Lucia Economy

Overview:
    Since 1983 the economy has shown an impressive average annual growth rate of
    almost 5% because of strong agricultural and tourist sectors. Saint Lucia
    also possesses an expanding industrial base supported by foreign investment
    in manufacturing and other activities, such as in data processing. The
    economy, however, remains vulnerable because the important agricultural
    sector is dominated by banana production. Saint Lucia is subject to periodic
    droughts and/or tropical storms, and its protected market agreement with the
    UK for bananas may end in 1992.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $295 million, per capita $1,930; real growth rate
    4.0% (1990 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    4.2% (1990)
Unemployment rate:
    16.0% (1988)
Budget:
    revenues $131 million; expenditures $149 million, including capital
    expenditures of $71 million (FY90 est.)
Exports:
    $127 million (f.o.b., 1990 est.)
  commodities:
    bananas 54%, clothing 17%, cocoa, vegetables, fruits, coconut oil
  partners:
    UK 51%, CARICOM 20%, US 19%, other 10%
Imports:
    $270 million (c.i.f., 1990)
  commodities:
    manufactured goods 23%, machinery and transportation equipment 27%, food and
    live animals 18%, chemicals 10%, fuels 6%
  partners:
    US 35%, CARICOM 16%, UK 15%, Japan 7%, Canada 4%, other 23%
External debt:
    $54.5 million (1989)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 3.5% (1990 est.); accounts for 7% of GDP
Electricity:
    32,500 kW capacity; 112 million kWh produced, 732 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    clothing, assembly of electronic components, beverages, corrugated boxes,
    tourism, lime processing, coconut processing
Agriculture:
    accounts for 16% of GDP and 43% of labor force; crops - bananas, coconuts,
    vegetables, citrus fruit, root crops, cocoa; imports food for the tourist
    industry
Economic aid:
    Western (non-US) countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89),
    $120 million
Currency:
    East Caribbean dollar (plural - dollars); 1 EC dollar (EC$) = 100 cents
Exchange rates:
    East Caribbean dollars (EC$) per US$1 - 2.70 (fixed rate since 1976)

:Saint Lucia Communications

Highways:
    760 km total; 500 km paved; 260 km otherwise improved
Ports:
    Castries
Civil air:
    no major transport aircraft
Airports:
    2 total, 2 usable; 2 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways over
    3,659 m; 1 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 1 with runways 1,220-2,439
Telecommunications:
    fully automatic telephone system; 9,500 telephones; direct microwave link
    with Martinique and Saint Vincent and the Grenadines; interisland
    troposcatter link to Barbados; broadcast stations - 4 AM, 1 FM, 1 TV (cable)

:Saint Lucia Defense Forces

Branches:
    Royal Saint Lucia Police Force, Coast Guard
Manpower availability:
    NA
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $NA, NA% of GDP

:Saint Pierre and Miquelon Geography

Total area:
    242 km2
Land area:
    242 km2; includes eight small islands in the Saint Pierre and the Miquelon
    groups
Comparative area:
    slightly less than 1.5 times the size of Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    120 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    focus of maritime boundary dispute between Canada and France
Climate:
    cold and wet, with much mist and fog; spring and autumn are windy
Terrain:
    mostly barren rock
Natural resources:
    fish, deepwater ports
Land use:
    arable land 13%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 0%; forest and
    woodland 4%; other 83%
Environment:
    vegetation scanty
Note:
    located 25 km south of Newfoundland, Canada, in the North Atlantic Ocean

:Saint Pierre and Miquelon People

Population:
    6,513 (July 1992), growth rate 0.4% (1992)
Birth rate:
    9 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    6 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    1 migrant/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    10 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    75 years male, 78 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    1.2 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Frenchman(men), Frenchwoman(women); adjective - French
Ethnic divisions:
    originally Basques and Bretons (French fishermen)
Religions:
    Roman Catholic 98%
Languages:
    French
Literacy:
    99% (male 99%, female 99%) age 15 and over can read and write (1982)
Labor force:
    2,850 (1988)
Organized labor:
    Workers' Force trade union

:Saint Pierre and Miquelon Government

Long-form name:
    Territorial Collectivity of Saint Pierre and Miquelon
Type:
    territorial collectivity of France
Capital:
    Saint-Pierre
Administrative divisions:
    none (territorial collectivity of France)
Independence:
    none (territorial collectivity of France); note - has been under French
    control since 1763
Constitution:
    28 September 1958 (French Constitution)
Legal system:
    French law
National holiday:
    National Day, 14 July (Taking of the Bastille)
Executive branch:
    French president, commissioner of the Republic
Legislative branch:
    unicameral General Council
Judicial branch:
    Superior Tribunal of Appeals (Tribunal Superieur d'Appel)
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Francois MITTERRAND (since 21 May 1981)
  Head of Government:
    Commissioner of the Republic Jean-Pierre MARQUIE (since February 1989);
    President of the General Council Marc PLANTEGENET (since NA)
Political parties and leaders:
    Socialist Party (PS); Union for French Democracy (UDF/CDS), Gerard GRIGNON
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  General Council:
    last held September-October 1988 (next to be held NA September 1994);
    results - percent of vote by party NA; seats - (19 total) Socialist and
    other left-wing parties 13, UDF and right-wing parties 6
  French President:
    last held 8 May 1988 (next to be held NA May 1995); results - (second
    ballot) Jacques CHIRAC 56%, Francois MITTERRAND 44%
  French Senate:
    last held 24 September 1989 (next to be held NA September 1992); results -
    percent of vote by party NA; seats - (1 total) PS 1
  French National Assembly:
    last held 5 and 12 June 1988 (next to be held NA June 1993); results -
    percent of vote by party NA; seats - (1 total) UDF/CDS 1; note - Saint
    Pierre and Miquelon elects 1 member each to the French Senate and the French
    National Assembly who are voting members
Member of:
    FZ, WFTU
Diplomatic representation:
    as a territorial collectivity of France, local interests are represented in
    the US by France
Flag:
    the flag of France is used

:Saint Pierre and Miquelon Economy

Overview:
    The inhabitants have traditionally earned their livelihood by fishing and by
    servicing fishing fleets operating off the coast of Newfoundland. The
    economy has been declining, however, because the number of ships stopping at
    Saint Pierre has dropped steadily over the years. In March 1989, an
    agreement between France and Canada set fish quotas for Saint Pierre's
    trawlers fishing in Canadian and Canadian-claimed waters for three years.
    The agreement settles a longstanding dispute that had virtually brought fish
    exports to a halt. The islands are heavily subsidized by France. Imports
    come primarily from Canada and France.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $60 million, per capita $9,500; real growth rate
    NA% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    NA%
Unemployment rate:
    9.6% (1990)
Budget:
    revenues $18.3 million; expenditures $18.3 million, including capital
    expenditures of $5.5 million (1989)
Exports:
    $25.5 million (f.o.b., 1990)
  commodities:
    fish and fish products, fox and mink pelts
  partners:
    US 58%, France 17%, UK 11%, Canada, Portugal
Imports:
    $87.2 million (c.i.f., 1990)
  commodities:
    meat, clothing, fuel, electrical equipment, machinery, building materials
  partners:
    Canada, France, US, Netherlands, UK
External debt:
    $NA
Industrial production:
    growth rate NA%
Electricity:
    10,000 kW capacity; 25 million kWh produced, 3,970 kWh per capita (1989)
Industries:
    fish processing and supply base for fishing fleets; tourism
Agriculture:
    vegetables, cattle, sheep and pigs for local consumption; fish catch, 20,500
    metric tons (1989)
Economic aid:
    Western (non-US) countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89),
    $500 million
Currency:
    French franc (plural - francs); 1 French franc (F) = 100 centimes
Exchange rates:
    French francs (F) per US$1 - 5.6397 (March 1992), 5.6421 (1991), 5.4453
    (1990), 6.3801 (1989), 5.9569 (1988), 6.0107 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Saint Pierre and Miquelon Communications

Highways:
    120 km total; 60 km paved (1985)
Ports:
    Saint Pierre
Civil air:
    no major transport aircraft
Airports:
    2 total, 2 usable; 2 with permanent-surface runways, none with runways over
    2,439 m; 1 with runway 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    3,601 telephones; broadcast stations - 1 AM, 3 FM, no TV; radio
    communication with most countries in the world; 1 earth station in French
    domestic satellite system

:Saint Pierre and Miquelon Defense Forces

Note:
    defense is the responsibility of France

:Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Geography

Total area:
    340 km2
Land area:
    340 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly less than twice the size of Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    84 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    24 nm
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    tropical; little seasonal temperature variation; rainy season (May to
    November)
Terrain:
    volcanic, mountainous; Soufriere volcano on the island of Saint Vincent
Natural resources:
    negligible
Land use:
    arable land 38%; permanent crops 12%; meadows and pastures 6%; forest and
    woodland 41%; other 3%; includes irrigated 3%
Environment:
    subject to hurricanes; Soufriere volcano is a constant threat
Note:
    some islands of the Grenadines group are administered by Grenada

:Saint Vincent and the Grenadines People

Population:
    115,339 (July 1992), growth rate 1.1% (1992)
Birth rate:
    23 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    5 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    -7 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    19 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    71 years male, 74 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    2.4 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Saint Vincentian(s) or Vincentian(s); adjectives - Saint Vincentian
    or Vincentian
Ethnic divisions:
    mainly of black African descent; remainder mixed, with some white, East
    Indian, Carib Indian
Religions:
    Anglican, Methodist, Roman Catholic, Seventh-Day Adventist
Languages:
    English, some French patois
Literacy:
    96% (male 96%, female 96%) age 15 and over having ever attended school
    (1970)
Labor force:
    67,000 (1984 est.)
Organized labor:
    10% of labor force

:Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Government

Long-form name:
    none
Type:
    constitutional monarchy
Capital:
    Kingstown
Administrative divisions:
    6 parishes; Charlotte, Grenadines, Saint Andrew, Saint David, Saint George,
    Saint Patrick
Independence:
    27 October 1979 (from UK)
Constitution:
    27 October 1979
Legal system:
    based on English common law
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 27 October (1979)
Executive branch:
    British monarch, governor general, prime minister, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    unicameral House of Assembly
Judicial branch:
    Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952), represented by Governor General
    David JACK (since 29 September 1989)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister James F. MITCHELL (since 30 July 1984)
Political parties and leaders:
    New Democratic Party (NDP), James (Son) MITCHELL; Saint Vincent Labor Party
    (SVLP), Vincent BEACHE; United People's Movement (UPM), Adrian SAUNDERS;
    Movement for National Unity (MNU), Ralph GONSALVES; National Reform Party
    (NRP), Joel MIGUEL
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  House of Assembly:
    last held 16 May 1989 (next to be held NA July 1994); results - percent of
    vote by party NA; seats - (21 total; 15 elected representatives and 6
    appointed senators) NDP 15
Member of:
    ACP, C, CARICOM, CDB, ECLAC, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, IDA, IFAD, IMF,
    IMO, INTERPOL, IOC, ITU, LORCS, OAS, OECS, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU,
    WCL, WFTU, WHO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Kingsley LAYNE; 1717 Massachusetts Avenue, NW, Suite 102,
    Washington, DC 20036; telephone NA
  US:
    no official presence since the Ambassador resides in Bridgetown (Barbados)
Flag:
    three vertical bands of blue (hoist side), gold (double width), and green;
    the gold band bears three green diamonds arranged in a V pattern
    *** No entry for this item ***

:Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Economy

Overview:
    Agriculture, dominated by banana production, is the most important sector of
    the economy. The services sector, based mostly on a growing tourist
    industry, is also important. The economy continues to have a high
    unemployment rate of 30% because of an overdependence on the weather-plagued
    banana crop as a major export earner. Government progress toward
    diversifying into new industries has been relatively unsuccessful.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $146 million, per capita $1,300; real growth rate
    5.9% (1989)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    3.0% (1990)
Unemployment rate:
    30% (1989 est.)
Budget:
    revenues $62 million; expenditures $67 million, including capital
    expenditures of $21 million (FY90 est.)
Exports:
    $75 million (f.o.b., 1990)
  commodities:
    bananas, eddoes and dasheen (taro), arrowroot starch, tennis racquets, flour
  partners:
    UK 43%, CARICOM 37%, US 15%
Imports:
    $130 million (f.o.b., 1990 est.)
  commodities:
    foodstuffs, machinery and equipment, chemicals and fertilizers, minerals and
    fuels
  partners:
    US 42%, CARICOM 19%, UK 15%
External debt:
    $50.9 million (1989)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 0% (1989); accounts for 14% of GDP
Electricity:
    16,594 kW capacity; 64 million kWh produced, 560 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    food processing (sugar, flour), cement, furniture, clothing, starch, sheet
    metal, beverage
Agriculture:
    accounts for 15% of GDP and 60% of labor force; provides bulk of exports;
    products - bananas, coconuts, sweet potatoes, spices; small numbers of
    cattle, sheep, hogs, goats; small fish catch used locally
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-87), $11 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $81 million
Currency:
    East Caribbean dollar (plural - dollars); 1 EC dollar (EC$) = 100 cents
Exchange rates:
    East Caribbean dollars (EC$) per US$1 - 2.70 (fixed rate since 1976)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year (as of January 1991); previously 1 July - 30 June

:Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Communications

Highways:
    about 1,000 km total; 300 km paved; 400 km improved; 300 km unimproved
Ports:
    Kingstown
Merchant marine:
    407 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 3,388,427 GRT/5,511,325 DWT; includes
    3 passenger, 2 passenger-cargo, 222 cargo, 22 container, 19 roll-on/roll-off
    cargo, 14 refrigerated cargo, 24 petroleum tanker, 7 chemical tanker, 4
    liquefied gas, 73 bulk, 13 combination bulk, 2 vehicle carrier, 1 livestock
    carrier, 1 specialized tanker; note - China owns 3 ships; a flag of
    convenience registry
Civil air:
    no major transport aircraft
Airports:
    6 total, 6 usable; 4 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways over
    2,439 m; 1 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    islandwide fully automatic telephone system; 6,500 telephones; VHF/UHF
    interisland links from Saint Vincent to Barbados and the Grenadines; new SHF
    links to Grenada and Saint Lucia; broadcast stations - 2 AM, no FM, 1 TV
    (cable)

:Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Defense Forces

Branches:
    Royal Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Police Force, Coast Guard
Manpower availability:
    NA
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $NA, NA% of GDP

:San Marino Geography

Total area:
    60 km2
Land area:
    60 km2
Comparative area:
    about 0.3 times the size of Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    39 km; Italy 39 km
Coastline:
    none - landlocked
Maritime claims:
    none - landlocked
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    Mediterranean; mild to cool winters; warm, sunny summers
Terrain:
    rugged mountains
Natural resources:
    building stones
Land use:
    arable land 17%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 0%; forest and
    woodland 0%; other 83%
Environment:
    dominated by the Appenines
Note:
    landlocked; world's smallest republic; enclave of Italy

:San Marino People

Population:
    23,404 (July 1992), growth rate 0.6% (1992)
Birth rate:
    8 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    7 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    5 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    8 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    74 years male, 79 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    1.3 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Sanmarinese (singular and plural); adjective - Sanmarinese
Ethnic divisions:
    Sanmarinese, Italian
Religions:
    Roman Catholic
Languages:
    Italian
Literacy:
    96% (male 96%, female 95%) age 14 and over can read and write (1976)
Labor force:
    about 4,300
Organized labor:
    Democratic Federation of Sanmarinese Workers (affiliated with ICFTU) has
    about 1,800 members; Communist-dominated General Federation of Labor, 1,400
    members

:San Marino Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of San Marino
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    San Marino
Administrative divisions:
    9 municipalities (castelli, singular - castello); Acquaviva, Borgo Maggiore,
    Chiesanuova, Domagnano, Faetano, Fiorentino, Monte Giardino, San Marino,
    Serravalle
Independence:
    301 AD (by tradition)
Constitution:
    8 October 1600; electoral law of 1926 serves some of the functions of a
    constitution
Legal system:
    based on civil law system with Italian law influences; has not accepted
    compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
National holiday:
    Anniversary of the Foundation of the Republic, 3 September
Executive branch:
    two captains regent, Congress of State (cabinet); real executive power is
    wielded by the secretary of state for foreign affairs and the secretary of
    state for internal affairs
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Great and General Council (Consiglio Grande e Generale)
Judicial branch:
    Council of Twelve (Consiglio dei XII)
Leaders:
  Co-Chiefs of State:
    Captain Regent Edda CETCOLI and Captain Regent Marino RICCARDI (since 1
    October 1991)
  Head of Government:
    Secretary of State Gabriele GATTI (since July 1986)
Political parties and leaders:
    Christian Democratic Party (DCS), Piermarino MENICUCCI; San Marino
    Democratic Progressive Party (PPDS) formerly San Marino Communist Party
    (PCS), Gilberto GHIOTTI; San Marino Socialist Party (PSS), Remy GIACOMINI;
    Unitary Socialst Party (PSU); Democratic Movement (MD), Emilio Della BALDA;
    San Marino Social Democratic Party (PSDS), Augusto CASALI; San Marino
    Republican Party (PRS), Cristoforo BUSCARINI
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  Great and General Council:
    last held 29 May 1988 (next to be held by NA May 1993); results - percent of
    vote by party NA; seats - (60 total) DCS 27, PCS 18, PSU 8, PSS 7
Communists:
    about 300 members
Member of:
    CE, CSCE, ICAO, ICFTU, ILO, IMF (observer), IOC, IOM (observer), ITU, LORCS,
    NAM (guest), UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UPU, WHO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    San Marino maintains honorary Consulates General in Washington and New York
    and an honorary Consulate in Detroit

:San Marino Government

  US:
    no mission in San Marino, but the Consul General in Florence (Italy) is
    accredited to San Marino; Consulate General at Lungarno Amerigo Vespucci,
    38, 50123 Firenze, Italy (mailing address is APO AE 09613; telephone [39]
    (55) 239-8276 through 8279 and 217-605; FAX [39] (55) 284-088
Flag:
    two equal horizontal bands of white (top) and light blue with the national
    coat of arms superimposed in the center; the coat of arms has a shield
    (featuring three towers on three peaks) flanked by a wreath, below a crown
    and above a scroll bearing the word
Flag:
    AS (Liberty)

:San Marino Economy

Overview:
    More than 2 million tourists visit each year, contributing about 60% to GDP.
    The sale of postage stamps to foreign collectors is another important income
    producer. The manufacturing sector employs nearly 40% of the labor force and
    agriculture less than 4%. The per capita level of output and standard of
    living are comparable to northern Italy.
GDP:
    purchasing power equivalent - $400 million, per capita $17,000; real growth
    rate NA% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    6% (1990)
Unemployment rate:
    6.5% (1985)
Budget:
    revenues $99.2 million; expenditures $NA, including capital expenditures of
    $NA (1983)
Exports:
    *** No entry for this item ***
    trade data are included with the statistics for Italy; commodity trade
    consists primarily of exchanging building stone, lime, wood, chestnuts,
    wheat, wine, baked goods, hides, and ceramics for a wide variety of consumer
    manufactures
Imports:
    see
External debt:
    $NA
Industrial production:
    growth rate NA%
Electricity:
    supplied by Italy
Industries:
    wine, olive oil, cement, leather, textile, tourism
Agriculture:
    employs less than 4% of labor force; products - wheat, grapes, corn, olives,
    meat, cheese, hides; small numbers of cattle, pigs, horses; depends on Italy
    for food imports
Economic aid:
    NA
Currency:
    Italian lira (plural - lire); 1 Italian lira (Lit) = 100 centesimi; also
    mints its own coins
Exchange rates:
    Italian lire (Lit) per US$1 - 1,248.4 (March 1992), 1,240.6 (1991), 1,198.1
    (1990), 1,372.1 (1989), 1,301.6 (1988), 1,296.1 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:San Marino Communications

Highways:
    104 km
Telecommunications:
    automatic telephone system completely integrated into Italian system; 11,700
    telephones; broadcast services from Italy; microwave and cable links into
    Italian networks; no communication satellite facilities

:San Marino Defense Forces

Branches:
    public security or police force of less than 50 people
Manpower availability:
    all fit men ages 16-60 constitute a militia that can serve as an army
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $NA, NA% of GDP

:Sao Tome and Principe Geography

Total area:
    960 km2
Land area:
    960 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly less than 5.5 times the size of Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    209 km
Maritime claims:
    (measured from claimed archipelagic baselines)
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    tropical; hot, humid; one rainy season (October to May)
Terrain:
    volcanic, mountainous
Natural resources:
    fish
Land use:
    arable land 1%; permanent crops 20%; meadows and pastures 1%; forest and
    woodland 75%; other 3%
Environment:
    deforestation; soil erosion
Note:
    located south of Nigeria and west of Gabon near the Equator in the North
    Atlantic Ocean

:Sao Tome and Principe People

Population:
    132,338 (July 1992), growth rate 2.9% (1992)
Birth rate:
    38 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    8 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    58 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    64 years male, 68 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    5.2 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Sao Tomean(s); adjective - Sao Tomean
Ethnic divisions:
    mestico, angolares (descendents of Angolan slaves), forros (descendents of
    freed slaves), servicais (contract laborers from Angola, Mozambique, and
    Cape Verde), tongas (children of servicais born on the islands), and
    Europeans (primarily Portuguese)
Religions:
    Roman Catholic, Evangelical Protestant, Seventh-Day Adventist
Languages:
    Portuguese (official)
Literacy:
    57% (male 73%, female 42%) age 15 and over can read and write (1981)
Labor force:
    21,096 (1981); most of population engaged in subsistence agriculture and
    fishing; labor shortages on plantations and of skilled workers; 56% of
    population of working age (1983)
Organized labor:
    NA

:Sao Tome and Principe Government

Long-form name:
    Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Sao Tome
Administrative divisions:
    2 districts (concelhos, singular - concelho); Principe, Sao Tome
Independence:
    12 July 1975 (from Portugal)
Constitution:
    5 November 1975, approved 15 December 1982
Legal system:
    based on Portuguese law system and customary law; has not accepted
    compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 12 July (1975)
Executive branch:
    president, prime minister, Council of Ministers (cabinet)
Legislative branch:
    unicameral National People's Assembly (Assembleia Popular Nacional)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Miguel TROVOADA (since 4 April 1991)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Noberto COSTA ALEGRE (since 16 May 1992)
Political parties and leaders:
    Party for Democratic Convergence-Reflection Group (PCD-GR), Prime Minister
    Daniel Lima Dos Santos DAIO, secretary general; Movement for the Liberation
    of Sao Tome and Principe (MLSTP), Carlos da GRACA; Christian Democratic
    Front (FDC), Alphonse Dos SANTOS; Democratic Opposition Coalition (CODO),
    leader NA; other small parties
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  President:
    last held 3 March 1991 (next to be held NA March 1996); results - Miguel
    TROVOADA was elected without opposition in Sao Tome's first multiparty
    presidential election
  National People's Assembly:
    last held 20 January 1991 (next to be held NA January 1996); results -
    PCD-GR 54.4%, MLSTP 30.5%, CODO 5.2%, FDC 1.5%, other 8.3%; seats - (55
    total) PCD-GR 33, MLSTP 21, CODO 1; note - this was the first multiparty
    election in Sao Tome and Principe
Member of:
    ACP, AfDB, CEEAC, ECA, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, IDA, IFAD, ILO, IMF, INTERPOL,
    ITU, LORCS, NAM, OAU, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WHO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Joaquim Rafael BRANCO; Chancery (temporary) at 801 Second Avenue,
    Suite 603, New York, NY 10017; telephone (212) 697-4211
  US:
    Ambassador to Gabon is accredited to Sao Tome and Principe on a nonresident
    basis and makes periodic visits to the islands

:Sao Tome and Principe Government

Flag:
    three horizontal bands of green (top), yellow (double width), and green with
    two black five-pointed stars placed side by side in the center of the yellow
    band and a red isosceles triangle based on the hoist side; uses the popular
    pan-African colors of Ethiopia

:Sao Tome and Principe Economy

Overview:
    The economy has remained dependent on cocoa since the country gained
    independence nearly 15 years ago. Since then, however, cocoa production has
    gradually deteriorated because of drought and mismanagement, so that by 1987
    output had fallen to less than 50% of its former levels. As a result, a
    shortage of cocoa for export has created a serious balance-of-payments
    problem. Production of less important crops, such as coffee, copra, and palm
    kernels, has also declined. The value of imports generally exceeds that of
    exports by a ratio of 4:1. The emphasis on cocoa production at the expense
    of other food crops has meant that Sao Tome has to import 90% of food needs.
    It also has to import all fuels and most manufactured goods. Over the years,
    Sao Tome has been unable to service its external debt, which amounts to
    roughly 80% of export earnings. Considerable potential exists for
    development of a tourist industry, and the government has taken steps to
    expand facilities in recent years. The government also implemented a
    Five-Year Plan covering 1986-90 to restructure the economy and reschedule
    external debt service payments in cooperation with the International
    Development Association and Western lenders.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $46.0 million, per capita $400; real growth rate
    1.5% (1989)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    36% (1989)
Unemployment rate:
    NA%
Budget:
    revenues $10.2 million; expenditures $36.8 million, including capital
    expenditures of $22.5 million (1989)
Exports:
    $4.4 million (f.o.b., 1990 est.)
  commodities:
    cocoa 85%, copra, coffee, palm oil
  partners:
    FRG, GDR, Netherlands, China
Imports:
    $21.3 million (f.o.b., 1990 est.)
  commodities:
    machinery and electrical equipment 54%, food products 23%, other 23%
  partners:
    Portugal, GDR, Angola, China
External debt:
    $147 million (1990 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 7.1% (1986)
Electricity:
    5,000 kW capacity; 10 million kWh produced, 80 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    light construction, shirts, soap, beer, fisheries, shrimp processing
Agriculture:
    dominant sector of economy, primary source of exports; cash crops - cocoa
    (85%), coconuts, palm kernels, coffee; food products - bananas, papaya,
    beans, poultry, fish; not self-sufficient in food grain and meat
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $8 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $89 million
Currency:
    dobra (plural - dobras); 1 dobra (Db) = 100 centimos

:Sao Tome and Principe Economy

Exchange rates:
    dobras (Db) per US$1 - 260.0 (November 1991), 122.48 (December 1988), 72.827
    (1987), 36.993 (1986)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Sao Tome and Principe Communications

Highways:
    300 km (two-thirds are paved); roads on Principe are mostly unpaved and in
    need of repair
Ports:
    Sao Tome, Santo Antonio
Civil air:
    10 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    2 total, 2 usable; 2 with permanent-surface runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    minimal system; broadcast stations - 1 AM, 2 FM, no TV; 1 Atlantic Ocean
    INTELSAT earth station

:Sao Tome and Principe Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Navy, National Police
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 30,188; 15,918 fit for military service
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $NA, NA% of GDP

:Saudi Arabia Geography

Total area:
    1,945,000 km2
Land area:
    1,945,000 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly less than one-fourth the size of the US
Land boundaries:
    4,532 km total; Iraq 808 km, Jordan 742 km, Kuwait 222 km, Oman 676 km,
    Qatar 40 km, UAE 586 km, Yemen 1,458 km
Coastline:
    2,510 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    18 nm
  Continental shelf:
    not specific
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    no defined boundaries with Yemen; location and status of Saudi Arabia's
    boundaries with Qatar and UAE are unresolved; Kuwaiti ownership of Qaruh and
    Umm al Maradim Islands is disputed by Saudi Arabia
Climate:
    harsh, dry desert with great extremes of temperature
Terrain:
    mostly uninhabited, sandy desert
Natural resources:
    crude oil, natural gas, iron ore, gold, copper
Land use:
    arable land 1%; permanent crops NEGL%; meadows and pastures 39%; forest and
    woodland 1%; other 59%; includes irrigated NEGL%
Environment:
    no perennial rivers or permanent water bodies; developing extensive coastal
    seawater desalination facilities; desertification
Note:
    extensive coastlines on Persian Gulf and Red Sea provide great leverage on
    shipping (especially crude oil) through Persian Gulf and Suez Canal

:Saudi Arabia People

Population:
    17,050,934 (July 1992), growth rate 3.3% (1992); note - the population
    figure is based on growth since the last official Saudi census of 1974 that
    reported a total of 7 million persons and included foreign workers;
    estimates from other sources may be 15-30% lower
Birth rate:
    39 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    6 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    59 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    65 years male, 68 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    6.7 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Saudi(s); adjective - Saudi or Saudi Arabian
Ethnic divisions:
    Arab 90%, Afro-Asian 10%
Religions:
    Muslim 100%
Languages:
    Arabic
Literacy:
    62% (male 73%, female 48%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    5,000,000; about 60% are foreign workers; government 34%, industry and oil
    28%, services 22%, and agriculture 16%
Organized labor:
    trade unions are illegal

:Saudi Arabia Government

Long-form name:
    Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
Type:
    monarchy
Capital:
    Riyadh
Administrative divisions:
    14 emirates (imarat, singular - imarah); Al Bahah, Al Hudud ash Shamaliyah,
    Al Jawf, Al Madinah, Al Qasim, Al Qurayyat, Ar Riyad, Ash Sharqiyah, `Asir,
    Ha'il, Jizan, Makkah, Najran, Tabuk
Independence:
    23 September 1932 (unification)
Constitution:
    none; governed according to Shari`a (Islamic law)
Legal system:
    based on Islamic law, several secular codes have been introduced; commercial
    disputes handled by special committees; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
    jurisdiction
National holiday:
    Unification of the Kingdom, 23 September (1932)
Executive branch:
    monarch and prime minister, crown prince and deputy prime minister, Council
    of Ministers
Legislative branch:
    none
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Council of Justice
Leaders:
  Chief of State and Head of Government:
    King and Prime Minister FAHD bin `Abd al-`Aziz Al Sa`ud (since 13 June
    1982); Crown Prince and Deputy Prime Minister `ABDALLAH bin `Abd al-`Aziz Al
    Sa`ud (half-brother to the King, appointed heir to the throne 13 June 1982)
Suffrage:
    none
Elections:
    none
Member of:
    ABEDA, AfDB, AFESD, AL, AMF, CCC, ESCWA, FAO, G-19, G-77, GCC, IAEA, IBRD,
    ICAO, ICC, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INMARSAT, INTELSAT, INTERPOL,
    IOC, ISO, ITU, LORCS, NAM, OAPEC, OAS (observer), OIC, OPEC, UN, UNCTAD,
    UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador BANDAR Bin Sultan; Chancery at 601 New Hampshire Avenue NW,
    Washington, DC 20037; telephone (202) 342-3800; there are Saudi Arabian
    Consulates General in Houston, Los Angeles, and New York
  US:
    Ambassador Charles W. FREEMAN, Jr.; Embassy at Collector Road M, Diplomatic
    Quarter, Riyadh (mailing address is American Embassy, Unit 61307, Riyadh;
    International Mail: P. O. Box 94309, Riyadh 11693; or APO AE 09803-1307);
    telephone [966] (1) 488-3800; Telex 406866; there are US Consulates General
    in Dhahran and Jiddah (Jeddah)
Flag:
    green with large white Arabic script (that may be translated as There is no
    God but God; Muhammad is the Messenger of God) above a white horizontal
    saber (the tip points to the hoist side); green is the traditional color of
    Islam

:Saudi Arabia Economy

Overview:
    The petroleum sector accounts for roughly 70% of budget revenues, 37% of
    GDP, and almost all export earnings. Saudi Arabia has the largest reserves
    of petroleum in the world, ranks as the largest exporter of petroleum, and
    plays a leading role in OPEC. For the 1990s the government intends to
    encourage private economic activity and to foster the gradual process of
    turning Saudi Arabia into a modern industrial state that retains traditional
    Islamic values.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $104 billion, per capita $5,800; real growth rate
    1.5% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    3% (1991 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    0% (1989 est.)
Budget:
    revenues $40.3 billion; expenditures $48.3 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $NA (1992)
Exports:
    $44.3 billion (f.o.b., 1990)
  commodities:
    petroleum and petroleum products 85%
  partners:
    US 22%, Japan 22%, Singapore 7%, France 6%
Imports:
    $21.5 billion (f.o.b., 1990)
  commodities:
    manufactured goods, transportation equipment, construction materials,
    processed food products
  partners:
    US 16%, UK 14%, Japan 14%, FRG 7%
External debt:
    $18.9 billion (December 1989 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate -1.1% (1989 est.); accounts for 37% of GDP, including petroleum
Electricity:
    30,000,000 kW capacity; 60,000 million kWh produced, 3,300 kWh per capita
    (1991)
Industries:
    crude oil production, petroleum refining, basic petrochemicals, cement,
    small steel-rolling mill, construction, fertilizer, plastic
Agriculture:
    accounts for about 10% of GDP, 16% of labor force; fastest growing economic
    sector; subsidized by government; products - wheat, barley, tomatoes,
    melons, dates, citrus fruit, mutton, chickens, eggs, milk; approaching
    self-sufficiency in food
Economic aid:
    donor - pledged $64.7 billion in bilateral aid (1979-89)
Currency:
    Saudi riyal (plural - riyals); 1 Saudi riyal (SR) = 100 halalas
Exchange rates:
    Saudi riyals (SR) per US$1 - 3.7450 (fixed rate since late 1986), 3.7033
    (1986)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Saudi Arabia Communications

Railroads:
    886 km 1.435-meter standard gauge
Highways:
    74,000 km total; 35,000 km paved, 39,000 km gravel and improved earth
Pipelines:
    crude oil 6,400 km, petroleum products 150 km, natural gas 2,200 km,
    includes natural gas liquids 1,600 km
Ports:
    Jiddah, Ad Dammam, Ras Tanura, Jizan, Al Jubayl, Yanbu al Bahr, Yanbu al
    Sinaiyah
Merchant marine:
    8l ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 884,470 GRT/1,254,882 DWT; includes 1
    passenger, 7 short-sea passenger, 11 cargo, 14 roll-on/roll-off cargo, 3
    container, 6 refrigerated cargo, 5 livestock carrier, 24 petroleum tanker, 7
    chemical tanker, 1 liquefied gas, 1 specialized tanker, 1 bulk
Civil air:
    104 major transport aircraft available
Airports:
    211 total, 191 usable; 70 with permanent-surface runways; 14 with runways
    over 3,659 m; 37 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 105 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    good system with extensive microwave and coaxial and fiber optic cable
    systems; 1,624,000 telephones; broadcast stations - 43 AM, 13 FM, 80 TV;
    radio relay to Bahrain, Jordan, Kuwait, Qatar, UAE, Yemen, and Sudan;
    coaxial cable to Kuwait and Jordan; submarine cable to Djibouti, Egypt and
    Bahrain; earth stations - 3 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT, 2 Indian Ocean
    INTELSAT, 1 ARABSAT, 1 INMARSAT

:Saudi Arabia Defense Forces

Branches:
    Land Force (Army), Navy, Air Force, Air Defense Force, National Guard, Coast
    Guard, Frontier Forces, Special Security Force, Public Security Force
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 5,619,147; 3,118,261 fit for military service; 133,314 reach
    military age (17) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $14.5 billion, 13% of GDP (1992 budget)

:Senegal Geography

Total area:
    196,190 km2
Land area:
    192,000 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than South Dakota
Land boundaries:
    2,640 km total; The Gambia 740 km, Guinea 330 km, Guinea-Bissau 338 km, Mali
    419 km, Mauritania 813 km
Coastline:
    531 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    24 nm
  Continental shelf:
    edge of continental margin or 200 nm
  Exclusive fishing zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    short section of the boundary with The Gambia is indefinite; the
    International Court of Justice (ICJ) on 12 November 1991 rendered its
    decision on the Guinea-Bissau/ Senegal maritime boundary in favor of Senegal
    - that decision has been rejected by Guinea-Bissau; boundary with Mauritania
Climate:
    tropical; hot, humid; rainy season (December to April) has strong southeast
    winds; dry season (May to November) dominated by hot, dry harmattan wind
Terrain:
    generally low, rolling, plains rising to foothills in southeast
Natural resources:
    fish, phosphates, iron ore
Land use:
    arable land 27%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 30%; forest and
    woodland 31%; other 12%; includes irrigated 1%
Environment:
    lowlands seasonally flooded; deforestation; overgrazing; soil erosion;
    desertification
Note:
    The Gambia is almost an enclave

:Senegal People

Population:
    8,205,058 (July 1992), growth rate 3.1% (1992)
Birth rate:
    44 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    13 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    80 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    54 years male, 57 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    6.2 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Senegalese (singular and plural); adjective - Senegalese
Ethnic divisions:
    Wolof 36%, Fulani 17%, Serer 17%, Toucouleur 9%, Diola 9%, Mandingo 9%,
    European and Lebanese 1%, other 2%
Religions:
    Muslim 92%, indigenous beliefs 6%, Christian 2% (mostly Roman Catholic)
Languages:
    French (official); Wolof, Pulaar, Diola, Mandingo
Literacy:
    38% (male 52%, female 25%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    2,509,000; 77% subsistence agricultural workers; 175,000 wage earners -
    private sector 40%, government and parapublic 60%; 52% of population of
    working age (1985)
Organized labor:
    majority of wage-labor force represented by unions; however, dues-paying
    membership very limited; major confederation is National Confederation of
    Senegalese Labor (CNTS), an affiliate of the governing party

:Senegal Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Senegal
Type:
    republic under multiparty democratic rule
Capital:
    Dakar
Administrative divisions:
    10 regions (regions, singular - region); Dakar, Diourbel, Fatick, Kaolack,
    Kolda, Louga, Saint-Louis, Tambacounda, Thies, Ziguinchor
Independence:
    20 August 1960 (from France); The Gambia and Senegal signed an agreement on
    12 December 1981 (effective 1 February 1982) that called for the creation of
    a loose confederation to be known as Senegambia, but the agreement was
    dissolved on 30 September 1989
Constitution:
    3 March 1963, last revised in 1991
Legal system:
    based on French civil law system; judicial review of legislative acts in
    Supreme Court, which also audits the government's accounting office; has not
    accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 4 April (1960)
Executive branch:
    president, prime minister, Council of Ministers (cabinet)
Legislative branch:
    unicameral National Assembly (Assemblee Nationale)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court (Cour Supreme)
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Abdou DIOUF (since 1 January 1981)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Habib THIAM (since 7 April 1991)
Political parties and leaders:
    Socialist Party (PS), President Abdou DIOUF; Senegalese Democratic Party
    (PDS), Abdoulaye WADE; 13 other small uninfluential parties
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  President:
    last held 28 February 1988 (next to be held NA February 1993); results -
    Abdou DIOUF (PS) 73%, Abdoulaye WADE (PDS) 26%, other 1%
  National Assembly:
    last held 28 February 1988 (next to be held NA February 1993); results - PS
    71%, PDS 25%, other 4%; seats - (120 total) PS 103, PDS 17
Other political or pressure groups:
    students, teachers, labor, Muslim Brotherhoods
Member of:
    ACCT, ACP, AfDB, CCC, CEAO, ECA, ECOWAS, FAO, FZ, G-77, GATT, IAEA, IBRD,
    ICAO, ICC, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, ISO
    (correspondent), ITU, LORCS, NAM, OAU, OIC, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO,
    UNIIMOG, UPU, WADB, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Ibra Deguene KA; Chancery at 2112 Wyoming Avenue NW, Washington,
    DC 20008; telephone (202) 234-0540 or 0541
  US:
    Ambassador Katherine SHIRLEY; Embassy on Avenue Jean XXIII at the corner of
    Avenue Kleber, Dakar (mailing address is B. P. 49, Dakar); telephone [221]
    23-42-96 or 23-34-24; FAX [221] 22-29-91

:Senegal Government

Flag:
    three equal vertical bands of green (hoist side), yellow, and red with a
    small green five-pointed star centered in the yellow band; uses the popular
    pan-African colors of Ethiopia

:Senegal Economy

Overview:
    The agricultural sector accounts for about 20% of GDP and provides
    employment for about 75% of the labor force. About 40% of the total
    cultivated land is used to grow peanuts, an important export crop. The
    principal economic resource is fishing, which brought in about $200 million
    or about 25% of total foreign exchange earnings in 1987. Mining is dominated
    by the extraction of phosphate, but production has faltered because of
    reduced worldwide demand for fertilizers in recent years. Over the past 10
    years tourism has become increasingly important to the economy.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $5.0 billion, per capita $615; real growth rate
    3.6% (1990)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    2.0% (1990)
Unemployment rate:
    3.5% (1987)
Budget:
    revenues $921 million; expenditures $1,024 million; including capital
    expenditures of $14 million (FY89 est.)
Exports:
    $814 million (f.o.b., 1990 est.)
  commodities:
    manufactures 30%, fish products 27%, peanuts 11%, petroleum products 11%,
    phosphates 10%
  partners:
    France, other EC members, Mali, Ivory Coast, India
Imports:
    $1.05 billion (c.i.f., 1990 est.)
  commodities:
    semimanufactures 30%, food 27%, durable consumer goods 17%, petroleum 12%,
    capital goods 14%
  partners:
    France, other EC, Ivory Coast, Nigeria, Algeria, China, Japan
External debt:
    $2.9 billion (1990)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 4.7% (1989); accounts for 15% of GDP
Electricity:
    215,000 kW capacity; 760 million kWh produced, 100 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    agricultural and fish processing, phosphate mining, petroleum refining,
    building materials
Agriculture:
    including fishing, accounts for 20% of GDP and more than 75% of labor force;
    major products - peanuts (cash crop), millet, corn, sorghum, rice, cotton,
    tomatoes, green vegetables; estimated two-thirds self-sufficient in food;
    fish catch of 299,000 metric tons in 1987
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $551 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $5.23 billion; OPEC
    bilateral aid (1979-89), $589 million; Communist countries (1970-89), $295
    million
Currency:
    Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (plural - francs); 1 CFA franc (CFAF)
    = 100 centimes
Exchange rates:
    Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (CFAF) per US$1 - 269.01 (January
    1992), 282.11 (1991), 272.26 (1990), 319.01 (1989), 297.85 (1988), 300.54
    (1987)

:Senegal Economy

Fiscal year:
    1 July - 30 June; note - in January 1993, Senegal will switch to a calendar
    year

:Senegal Communications

Railroads:
    1,034 km 1.000-meter gauge; all single track except 70 km double track Dakar
    to Thies
Highways:
    14,007 km total; 3,777 km paved, 10,230 km laterite or improved earth
Inland waterways:
    897 km total; 785 km on the Senegal, 112 km on the Saloum
Ports:
    Dakar, Kaolack, Foundiougne, Ziguinchor
Merchant marine:
    2 ships (1,000 GRT and over) totaling 7,676 GRT/12,310 DWT; includes 1
    cargo, 1 bulk
Civil air:
    3 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    25 total, 19 usable; 10 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 1 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 15 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    above-average urban system, using microwave and cable; broadcast stations -
    8 AM, no FM, 1 TV; 3 submarine cables; 1 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT earth
    station

:Senegal Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Navy, Air Force, Gendarmerie, National Police
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 1,814,452; 947,723 fit for military service; 88,271 reach
    military age (18) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $100 million, 2% of GDP (1989 est.)

:Serbia and Montenegro Geography

Total area:
    102,350 km2
Land area:
    102,136 km2: note - Serbia has a total area and a land area of 88,412 km2
    while Montenegro has a total area of 13,938 km2 and a land area of 13,724
    km2
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than Kentucky; note - Serbia is slightly larger than Maine
    while Montenegro is slightly larger than Connecticut
Land boundaries:
    2,234 km total; Albania 287 km (114 km with Serbia, 173 km with Montenegro),
    Bosnia and Hercegovina 527 km (312 km with Serbia, 215 km with Montenegro),
    Bulgaria 318 km, Croatia (north) 239 km, Croatia (south) 15 km, Hungary 151
    km, Macedonia 221 km, Romania 476 km; note - the internal boundary between
    Montenegro and Serbia is 211 km
Coastline:
    199 km; Montenegro 199 km, Serbia 0 km
Maritime claims:
    none - landlocked
  Contiguous zone:
    NA nm
  Continental shelf:
    NA meter depth
  Exclusive fishing zone:
    NA nm
  Exclusive economic zone:
    NA nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    Sandzak region bordering northern Montenegro and southeastern Serbia -
    Muslims seeking autonomy; Vojvodina taken from Hungary and awarded to the
    former Yugoslavia (Serbia) by Treaty of Trianon in 1920; disputes with
    Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia over Serbian populated areas; Albanian
    minority in Kosovo seeks independence from Serbian Republic
Climate:
    in the north, continental climate - cold winter and hot, humid summers with
    well distributed rainfall; central portion, continental and Mediterranean
    climate; to the south, Adriatic climate along the coast, hot, dry summers
    and autumns and relatively cold winters with heavy snowfall inland
Terrain:
    extremely varied; to the north, rich fertile plains; to the east, limestone
    ranges and basins; to the southeast, ancient mountain and hills; to the
    southwest, extremely high shoreline with no islands off the coast; home of
    largest lake in former Yugoslavia, Lake Scutari
Natural resources:
    oil, gas, coal, antimony, copper, lead, zinc, nickel, gold, pyrite, chrome
Land use:
    arable land 30%; permanent crops 5%; meadows and pastures 20%; forest and
    woodland 25%; other 20%; includes irrigated 5%
Environment:
    coastal water pollution from sewage outlets, especially in tourist related
    areas such as Kotor; air pollution around Belgrade and other industrial
    cities; water pollution along Danube from industrial waste dump into the
    Sava which drains into the Danube; subject to destructive earthquakes
Note:
    controls one of the major land routes from Western Europe to Turkey and the
    Near East; strategic location along the Adriatic coast

:Serbia and Montenegro People

Population:
    10,642,000 (July 1992), growth rate NA% (1991)
Birth rate:
    NA births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    NA deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    NA migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    NA deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    Serbia - 70.11 years male, 75.21 years female (1992); Montenegro - 76.33
    years male, 82.27 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    NA children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Serbian(s) and Montenegrin(s); adjective - Serbian and Montenegrin
Ethnic divisions:
    Serbs 63%, Albanians 14%, Montenegrins 6%, Hungarians 4%
Religions:
    Orthodox 65%, Muslim 19%, Roman Catholic 4%, Protestant 1%, other 11%
Languages:
    Serbo-Croatian 100%
Literacy:
    89% (male 95%, female 83%) age 10 and over can read and write (1991 est.)
Labor force:
    2,640,909; industry, mining 40%, agriculture 5% (1990)
Organized labor:
    NA

:Serbia and Montenegro Government

Long-form name:
    none
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Belgrade
Administrative divisions:
    2 provinces (pokajine, singular - pokajina); and 2 automous provinces*;
    Kosovo*, Montenegro, Serbia, Vojvodina*
Independence:
    NA April 1992
Constitution:
    NA April 1992
Legal system:
    based on civil law system
National holiday:
    NA
Executive branch:
    president, vice president, prime minister, deputy prime minister
Legislative branch:
    Parliament
Judicial branch:
    NA
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Dobric COSIC (since NA), Vice President Branko KOSTIC (since July
    1991); note - Slobodan MILOSEVIC is president of Serbia
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Milan PANIC (since 14 July 1992), Deputy Prime Minister
    Aleksandr MITROVIC (since March 1989)
Political parties and leaders:
    former Communisty Party, Slobodan MILOSEVIC; Serbian Radical Party, Vojislav
    SESELJ; Serbian Renewal Party, Vok DRASKOVIC
Suffrage:
    at age 16 if employed, universal at age 18
Elections:
  President:
    NA
  Parliament:
    last held 4 June 1992 (next to be held NA); results - percent of vote by
    party NA; seats - (138 total) former Community Party 73, Radical Party 33,
    other 32
Communists:
    NA
Other political or pressure groups:
    NA
Member of:
    CSCE, UN
Diplomatic representation:
    none; US does not recognize Serbia and Montenegro
Flag:
    NA

:Serbia and Montenegro Economy

Overview:
    The swift collapse of the Yugoslav federation has been accompanied by bloody
    ethnic warfare, the destabilization of republic boundaries, and the breakup
    of important interrepublic trade flows. The situation in Serbia and
    Montenegro remains fluid in view of the extensive political and military
    strife. This new state faces major economic problems. First, like the other
    former Yugoslav republics, Serbia and Montenegro depended on their sister
    republics for large amounts of foodstuffs, energy supplies, and
    manufactures. Wide varieties in climate, mineral resources, and levels of
    technology among the six republics accentuated this interdependence, as did
    the Communist practice of concentrating much industrial output in a small
    number of giant plants. The breakup of many of the trade links, the sharp
    drop in output as industrial plants lost suppliers and markets, and the
    destruction of physical assets in the fighting all have contributed to the
    economic difficulties of the republics. One singular factor in the economic
    situation of Serbia and Montenegro is the continuation in office of a
    Communist government that is primarily interested in political and military
    mastery, not economic reform. A further complication is the major economic
    sanctions by the leading industrial nations.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $44 billion, per capita $4,200; real growth rate
    NA% (1990)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    60% per month
Unemployment rate:
    25-40%
Budget:
    NA
Exports:
    $4.4 billion (f.o.b., 1990)
  commodities:
    machinery and transport equipment 29%, manufactured goods 28.5%,
    miscellaneous manufactured articles 13.5%, chemicals 11%, food and live
    animals 9%, raw materials 6%, fuels and lubricants 2%, beverages and tobacco
    1%
  partners:
    principally the other former Yugoslav republics; Italy, Germany, other EC,
    the former USSR, East European countries, US
Imports:
    $6.4 billion (c.i.f., 1990)
  commodities:
    machinery and transport equipment 26%, fuels and lubricants 18%,
    manufactured goods 16%, chemicals 12.5%, food and live animals 11%,
    miscellaneous manufactured items 8%, raw materials, including coking coal
    for the steel industry, 7%, beverages, tobacco, and edible oils 1.5%
  partners:
    principally the other former Yugoslav republics; the former USSR, EC
    countries (mainly Italy and Germany), East European countries, US
External debt:
    $4.2 billion (may assume some part of foreign debt of former Yugoslavia)
Industrial production:
    growth rate -20% or greater (1991 est.)
Electricity:
    8,633,000 kW capacity; 34,600 million kWh produced, 3,496 kWh per capita
    (1991)

:Serbia and Montenegro Economy

Industries:
    machine building (aircraft, trucks, and automobiles; armored vehicles and
    weapons; electrical equipment; agricultural machinery), metallurgy (steel,
    aluminum, copper, lead, zinc, chromium, antimony, bismuth, cadmium), mining
    (coal, bauxite, nonferrous ore, iron ore, limestone), consumer goods
    (textiles, footwear, foodstuffs, appliances), electronics, petroleum
    products, chemicals, and pharmaceuticals
Agriculture:
    the fertile plains of Vojvodina produce 80% of the cereal production of the
    former Yugoslavia and most of the cotton, oilseeds, and chicory; Vojvodina
    also produces fodder crops to support intensive beef and dairy production;
    Serbia proper, although hilly, has a well-distributed rainfall and a long
    growing season; produces fruit, grapes, and cereals; in this area, livestock
    production (sheep and cattle) and dairy farming prosper; Kosovo province
    produces fruits, vegetables, tobacco, and a small amount of cereals; the
    mountainous pastures of Kosovo and Montenegro support sheep and goat
    husbandry; Montenegro has only a small agriculture sector, mostly near the
    coast where a Mediterranean climate permits the culture of olives, citrus,
    grapes, and rice
Illicit drugs:
    NA
Economic aid:
    NA
Currency:
    Yugoslav New Dinar (plural - New Dinars); 1 Yugo New Dinar (YD) = 100 paras
Exchange rates:
    Yugoslav New Dinars (YD) per US $1 - 28.230 (December 1991), 15.162 (1990),
    15.528 (1989), 0.701 (1988), 0.176 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Serbia and Montenegro Communications

Railroads:
    NA
Highways:
    46,019 km total (1990); 26,949 km paved, 10,373 km gravel, 8,697 km earth
Inland waterways:
    NA km
Pipelines:
    crude oil 415 km, petroleum products 130 km, natural gas 2,110 km
Ports:
    maritime - Bar; inland - Belgrade
Merchant marine:
    43 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 866,915 GRT/1,449,094 DWT; includes 19
    cargo, 5 container, 16 bulk carriers, 2 combination/ore carrier and 1
    passenger ship, under Serbian and Montenegrin flag; note - Montenegro also
    operates 3 bulk carriers under the flags of Panama and Saint Vincent and the
    Grenadines
Civil air:
    NA
Airports:
    NA
Telecommunications:
    700,000 telephones; broadcast stations - 26 AM, 9 FM, 18 TV; 2,015,000
    radios; 1,000,000 TVs; satellite ground stations - 1 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT

:Serbia and Montenegro Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Navy, and Air Forces
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 2,545,357; NA fit for military service; 96,832 reach military
    age (18) annually (est.)
Defense expenditures:
    $NA, NA% of GDP

:Seychelles Geography

Total area:
    455 km2
Land area:
    455 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly more than 2.5 times the size of Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    491 km
Maritime claims:
  Continental shelf:
    edge of continental margin or 200 nm
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    claims Tromelin Island
Climate:
    tropical marine; humid; cooler season during southeast monsoon (late May to
    September); warmer season during northwest monsoon (March to May)
Terrain:
    Mahe Group is granitic, narrow coastal strip, rocky, hilly; others are
    coral, flat, elevated reefs
Natural resources:
    fish, copra, cinnamon trees
Land use:
    arable land 4%; permanent crops 18%; meadows and pastures 0%; forest and
    woodland 18%; other 60%
Environment:
    lies outside the cyclone belt, so severe storms are rare; short droughts
    possible; no fresh water - catchments collect rain; 40 granitic and about 50
    coralline islands
Note:
    located north-northeast of Madagascar in the Indian Ocean

:Seychelles People

Population:
    69,519 (July 1992), growth rate 0.8% (1992)
Birth rate:
    23 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    7 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    -8 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    15 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    65 years male, 75 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    2.4 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Seychellois (singular and plural); adjective - Seychelles
Ethnic divisions:
    Seychellois (mixture of Asians, Africans, Europeans)
Religions:
    Roman Catholic 90%, Anglican 8%, other 2%
Languages:
    English and French (official); Creole
Literacy:
    85% (male NA%, female NA%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990)
Labor force:
    27,700; industry and commerce 31%, services 21%, government 20%,
    agriculture, forestry, and fishing 12%, other 16% (1985); 57% of population
    of working age (1983)
Organized labor:
    three major trade unions

:Seychelles Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Seychelles
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Victoria
Administrative divisions:
    23 administrative districts; Anse aux Pins, Anse Boileau, Anse Etoile, Anse
    Louis, Anse Royale, Baie Lazare, Baie Sainte Anne, Beau Vallon, Bel Air, Bel
    Ombre, Cascade, Glacis, Grand' Anse (on Mahe Island), Grand' Anse (on
    Praslin Island), La Digue, La Riviere Anglaise, Mont Buxton, Mont Fleuri,
    Plaisance, Pointe La Rue, Port Glaud, Saint Louis, Takamaka
Independence:
    29 June 1976 (from UK)
Constitution:
    5 June 1979
Legal system:
    based on English common law, French civil law, and customary law
National holiday:
    Liberation Day (anniversary of coup), 5 June (1977)
Executive branch:
    president, Council of Ministers
Legislative branch:
    unicameral People's Assembly (Assemblee du Peuple)
Judicial branch:
    Court of Appeal, Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State and Head of Government:
    President France Albert RENE (since 5 June 1977)
Political parties and leaders:
    ruling party - Seychelles People's Progressive Front (SPPF), France Albert
    RENE; note - in December 1991, President RENE announced that the Seychelles
    would begin an immediate transition to a multiparty political system;
    registration of new political parties was scheduled to begin in January 1992
Suffrage:
    universal at age 17
Elections:
    election of delegates to a multiparty constitutional conference is scheduled
    for June 1992
  President:
    last held 9-11 June 1989 (next to be held NA June 1994); results - President
    France Albert RENE reelected without opposition
  People's Assembly:
    last held 5 December 1987 (next to be held NA December 1992); results - SPPF
    was the only legal party; seats - (25 total, 23 elected) SPPF 23
Other political or pressure groups:
    trade unions, Roman Catholic Church
Member of:
    ACCT, ACP, AfDB, C, ECA, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF,
    IMO, INTERPOL, IOC, NAM, OAU, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WHO, WMO
Diplomatic representation:
    Second Secretary, Charge d'Affaires ad interim Marc R. MARENGO; Chancery
    (temporary) at 820 Second Avenue, Suite 900F, New York, NY 10017; telephone
    (212) 687-9766
  US:
    Ambassador Richard W. CARLSON; Embassy at 4th Floor, Victoria House,
    Victoria (mailing address is Box 148, Victoria, and Victoria House, Box 251,
    Victoria, Mahe, Seychelles, or APO AE 09815-2501); telephone (248) 25256;
    FAX (248) 25189

:Seychelles Government

Flag:
    three horizontal bands of red (top), white (wavy), and green; the white band
    is the thinnest, the red band is the thickest

:Seychelles Economy

Overview:
    In this small, open, tropical island economy, the tourist industry employs
    about 30% of the labor force and provides more than 70% of hard currency
    earnings. In recent years the government has encouraged foreign investment
    in order to upgrade hotels and other services. At the same time, the
    government has moved to reduce the high dependence on tourism by promoting
    the development of farming, fishing, and small-scale manufacturing.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $350 million, per capita $5,200; real growth rate
    -4.5% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    1.8% (1990 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    9% (1987)
Budget:
    revenues $180 million; expenditures $202 million, including capital
    expenditures of $32 million (1989)
Exports:
    $40 million (f.o.b., 1990 est.)
  commodities:
    fish, copra, cinnamon bark, petroleum products (reexports)
  partners:
    France 63%, Pakistan 12%, Reunion 10%, UK 7% (1987)
Imports:
    $186 million (f.o.b., 1990 est.)
  commodities:
    manufactured goods, food, tobacco, beverages, machinery and transportation
    equipment, petroleum products
  partners:
    UK 20%, France 14%, South Africa 13%, PDRY 13%, Singapore 8%, Japan 6%
    (1987)
External debt:
    $189 million (1991 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 7% (1987); accounts for 10% of GDP
Electricity:
    30,000 kW capacity; 80 million kWh produced, 1,160 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    tourism, processing of coconut and vanilla, fishing, coir rope factory, boat
    building, printing, furniture, beverage
Agriculture:
    accounts for 7% of GDP, mostly subsistence farming; cash crops - coconuts,
    cinnamon, vanilla; other products - sweet potatoes, cassava, bananas;
    broiler chickens; large share of food needs imported; expansion of tuna
    fishing under way
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY78-89), $26 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1978-89), $315 million; OPEC
    bilateral aid (1979-89), $5 million; Communist countries (1970-89), $60
    million
Currency:
    Seychelles rupee (plural - rupees); 1 Seychelles rupee (SRe) = 100 cents
Exchange rates:
    Seychelles rupees (SRe) per US$1 - 5.2946 (March 1992), 5.2893 (1991),
    5.3369 (1990), 5.6457 (1989), 5.3836 (1988), 5.6000 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Seychelles Communications

Highways:
    260 km total; 160 km paved, 100 km crushed stone or earth
Ports:
    Victoria
Merchant marine:
    1 refrigerated cargo totaling 1,827 GRT/2,170 DWT
Civil air:
    1 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    14 total, 14 usable; 8 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 1 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; none with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    direct radio communications with adjacent islands and African coastal
    countries; 13,000 telephones; broadcast stations - 2 AM, no FM, 2 TV; 1
    Indian Ocean INTELSAT earth station; USAF tracking station

:Seychelles Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Navy, Air Force, Presidential Protection Unit, Police Force, Militia
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 17,739; 9,096 fit for military service
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $12 million, 4% of GDP (1990 est.)

:Sierra Leone Geography

Total area:
    71,740 km2
Land area:
    71,620 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than South Carolina
Land boundaries:
    958 km total; Guinea 652 km, Liberia 306 km
Coastline:
    402 km
Maritime claims:
  Territorial sea:
    200 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    tropical; hot, humid; summer rainy season (May to December); winter dry
    season (December to April)
Terrain:
    coastal belt of mangrove swamps, wooded hill country, upland plateau,
    mountains in east
Natural resources:
    diamonds, titanium ore, bauxite, iron ore, gold, chromite
Land use:
    arable land 25%; permanent crops 2%; meadows and pastures 31%; forest and
    woodland 29%; other 13%; includes irrigated NEGL%
Environment:
    extensive mangrove swamps hinder access to sea; deforestation; soil
    degradation

:Sierra Leone People

Population:
    4,456,737 (July 1992), growth rate -0.2% (1992)
Birth rate:
    46 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    20 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    -28 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    148 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    43 years male, 48 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    6.1 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Sierra Leonean(s); adjective - Sierra Leonean
Ethnic divisions:
    native African 99% (Temne 30%, Mende 30%); Creole, European, Lebanese, and
    Asian 1%; 13 tribes
Religions:
    Muslim 30%, indigenous beliefs 30%, Christian 10%, other or none 30%
Languages:
    English (official); regular use limited to literate minority; principal
    vernaculars are Mende in south and Temne in north; Krio is the language of
    the resettled ex-slave population of the Freetown area and is lingua franca
Literacy:
    21% (male 31%, female 11%) age 15 and over can read and write English,
    Mende, Temne, or Arabic (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    1,369,000 (est.); agriculture 65%, industry 19%, services 16% (1981); only
    about 65,000 earn wages (1985); 55% of population of working age
Organized labor:
    35% of wage earners

:Sierra Leone Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Sierra Leone
Type:
    military government
Capital:
    Freetown
Administrative divisions:
    Western Area and 3 provinces; Eastern, Northern, Southern
Independence:
    27 April 1961 (from UK)
Constitution:
    1 October 1991; amended September 1991
Legal system:
    based on English law and customary laws indigenous to local tribes; has not
    accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
National holiday:
    Republic Day, 27 April (1961)
Executive branch:
    National Provisional Ruling Council
Legislative branch:
    unicameral House of Representatives (suspended after coup of 29 April 1992)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court (suspended after coup of 29 April 1992)
Leaders:
  Chief of State and Head of Government:
    President Gen. Joseph Saidu MOMOH was ousted in coup of 29 April 1992;
    succeeded by Chairman of the National Provisional Ruling Council Valentine
    STRASSER (since 29 April 1992)
Political parties and leaders:
    status of existing political parties are unknown following 29 April 1992
    coup
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
    suspended after 29 April 1992 coup; Chairman STRASSER promises multi-party
    elections sometime in the future
Member of:
    ACP, AfDB, C, CCC, ECA, ECOWAS, FAO, G-77, GATT, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU,
    IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INTERPOL, IOC, ITU, LORCS, NAM, OAU,
    OIC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador (vacant); Chancery at 1701 19th Street NW, Washington, DC 20009;
    telephone (202) 939-9261
  US:
    Ambassador Johnny YOUNG; Embassy at the corner of Walpole and Siaka Stevens
    Street, Freetown; telephone [232] (22) 226-481; FAX [232] (22) 225471
Flag:
    three equal horizontal bands of light green (top), white, and light blue

:Sierra Leone Economy

Overview:
    The economic and social infrastructure is not well developed. Subsistence
    agriculture dominates the economy, generating about one-third of GDP and
    employing about two-thirds of the working population. Manufacturing, which
    accounts for roughly 10% of GDP, consists mainly of the processing of raw
    materials and of light manufacturing for the domestic market. Diamond mining
    provides an important source of hard currency. The economy suffers from high
    unemployment, rising inflation, large trade deficits, and a growing
    dependency on foreign assistance. The government in 1990 was attempting to
    get the budget deficit under control and, in general, to bring economic
    policy in line with the recommendations of the IMF and the World Bank. Since
    March 1991, however, military incursions by Liberian rebels in southern and
    eastern Sierra Leone have severely strained the economy and have undermined
    efforts to institute economic reforms.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $1.4 billion, per capita $330; real growth rate
    3% (FY91 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    110% (1990)
Unemployment rate:
    NA%
Budget:
    revenues $134 million; expenditures $187 million, including capital
    expenditures of $32 million (FY91 est.)
Exports:
    $138 million (f.o.b., 1990)
  commodities:
    rutile 50%, bauxite 17%, cocoa 11%, diamonds 3%, coffee 3%
  partners:
    US, UK, Belgium, FRG, other Western Europe
Imports:
    $146 million (c.i.f., 1990)
  commodities:
    capital goods 40%, food 32%, petroleum 12%, consumer goods 7%, light
    industrial goods
  partners:
    US, EC, Japan, China, Nigeria
External debt:
    $572 million (1990)
Industrial production:
    NA
Electricity:
    85,000 kW capacity; 185 million kWh produced, 45 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    mining (diamonds, bauxite, rutile), small-scale manufacturing (beverages,
    textiles, cigarettes, footwear), petroleum refinery
Agriculture:
    accounts for over 30% of GDP and two-thirds of the labor force; largely
    subsistence farming; cash crops - coffee, cocoa, palm kernels; harvests of
    food staple rice meets 80% of domestic needs; annual fish catch averages
    53,000 metric tons
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $161 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $848 million; OPEC
    bilateral aid (1979-89), $18 million; Communist countries (1970-89), $101
    million
Currency:
    leone (plural - leones); 1 leone (Le) = 100 cents

:Sierra Leone Economy

Exchange rates:
    leones (Le) per US$1 - 476.74 (March 1992), 295.34 (1991), 144.9275 (1990),
    58.1395 (1989), 31.2500 (1988), 30.7692 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    1 July - 30 June

:Sierra Leone Communications

Railroads:
    84 km 1.067-meter narrow-gauge mineral line is used on a limited basis
    because the mine at Marampa is closed
Highways:
    7,400 km total; 1,150 km paved, 490 km laterite (some gravel), remainder
    improved earth
Inland waterways:
    800 km; 600 km navigable year round
Ports:
    Freetown, Pepel, Bonthe
Merchant marine:
    1 cargo ship totaling 5,592 GRT/9,107 DWT
Civil air:
    no major transport aircraft
Airports:
    12 total, 7 usable; 4 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways over
    3,659 m; 1 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 3 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    marginal telephone and telegraph service; national microwave system
    unserviceable at present; 23,650 telephones; broadcast stations - 1 AM, 1
    FM, 1 TV; 1 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT earth station

:Sierra Leone Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Navy, National Police Force, Special Security Detachment
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 976,147; 472,112 fit for military service; no conscription
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $6 million, 0.7% of GDP (1988 est.)

:Singapore Geography

Total area:
    632.6 km2
Land area:
    622.6 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly less than 3.5 times the size of Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    193 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive fishing zone:
    12 nm
  Territorial sea:
    3 nm
Disputes:
    two islands in dispute with Malaysia
Climate:
    tropical; hot, humid, rainy; no pronounced rainy or dry seasons;
    thunderstorms occur on 40% of all days (67% of days in April)
Terrain:
    lowland; gently undulating central plateau contains water catchment area and
    nature preserve
Natural resources:
    fish, deepwater ports
Land use:
    arable land 4%; permanent crops 7%; meadows and pastures 0%; forest and
    woodland 5%; other 84%
Environment:
    mostly urban and industrialized
Note:
    focal point for Southeast Asian sea routes

:Singapore People

Population:
    2,792,092 (July 1992), growth rate 1.3% (1992)
Birth rate:
    18 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    5 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    6 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    73 years male, 78 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    1.9 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Singaporean(s); adjective - Singapore
Ethnic divisions:
    Chinese 76.4%, Malay 14.9%, Indian 6.4%, other 2.3%
Religions:
    majority of Chinese are Buddhists or atheists; Malays are nearly all Muslim
    (minorities include Christians, Hindus, Sikhs, Taoists, Confucianists)
Languages:
    Chinese, Malay, Tamil, and English (all official); Malay (national)
Literacy:
    88% (male 93%, female 84%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    1,485,800; financial, business, and other services 30.2%, manufacturing
    28.4%, commerce 22.0%, construction 9.0%, other 10.4% (1990)
Organized labor:
    210,000; 16.1% of labor force (1989)

:Singapore Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Singapore
Type:
    republic within Commonwealth
Capital:
    Singapore
Administrative divisions:
    none
Independence:
    9 August 1965 (from Malaysia)
Constitution:
    3 June 1959, amended 1965; based on preindependence State of Singapore
    Constitution
Legal system:
    based on English common law; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
National holiday:
    National Day, 9 August (1965)
Executive branch:
    president, prime minister, two deputy prime ministers, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Parliament
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President WEE Kim Wee (since 3 September 1985)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister GOH Chok Tong (since 28 November 1990); Deputy Prime Minister
    LEE Hsien Loong (since 28 November 1990); Deputy Prime Ministers ONG Teng
    Cheong (since 2 January 1985) and LEE Hsien Loong
Political parties and leaders:
  government:
    People's Action Party (PAP), LEE Kuan Yew, secretary general;
  opposition:
    Workers' Party (WP), J. B. JEYARETNAM; Singapore Democratic Party (SDP),
    CHIAM See Tong; National Solidarity Party (NSP), leader NA; Barisan Sosialis
    (BS, Socialist Front), leader NA
Suffrage:
    universal and compulsory at age 20
Elections:
  President:
    last held 31 August 1989 (next to be held NA August 1993); results -
    President WEE Kim Wee was reelected by Parliament without opposition
  Parliament:
    last held 31 August 1991 (next to be held 31 August 1996); results - percent
    of vote by party NA; seats - (81 total) PAP 77, SDP 3, WP 1
Communists:
    200-500; Barisan Sosialis infiltrated by Communists; note - Communist party
    illegal
Member of:
    APEC, AsDB, ASEAN, C, CCC, CP, ESCAP, G-77, GATT, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC,
    ICFTU, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INMARSAT, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, ISO, ITU,
    LORCS, NAM, UN, UNCTAD, UPU, WHO, WMO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador S. R. NATHAN; Chancery at 1824 R Street NW, Washington, DC 20009;
    telephone (202) 667-7555
  US:
    Ambassador Robert D. ORR; Embassy at 30 Hill Street, Singapore 0617 (mailing
    address is FPO AP 96534); telephone [65] 338-0251; FAX [65] 338-4550

:Singapore Government

Flag:
    two equal horizontal bands of red (top) and white; near the hoist side of
    the red band, there is a vertical, white crescent (closed portion is toward
    the hoist side) partially enclosing five white five-pointed stars arranged
    in a circle

:Singapore Economy

Overview:
    Singapore has an open entrepreneurial economy with strong service and
    manufacturing sectors and excellent international trading links derived from
    its entrepot history. During the 1970s and early 1980s, the economy expanded
    rapidly, achieving an average annual growth rate of 9%. Per capita GDP is
    among the highest in Asia. The economy grew at a respectable 6.5% in 1991,
    down from 8.3% in 1990, in part because of a slowdown in overseas demand and
    lower growth in the financial and business services sector.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $38.3 billion, per capita $13,900; real growth
    rate 6.5% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    3.4% (1991 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    1.5% (1991 est.)
Budget:
    revenues $9.8 billion; expenditures $9.0 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $2.8 billion (FY91 est.)
Exports:
    $57.8 billion (f.o.b., 1991 est.)
  commodities:
    includes transshipments to Malaysia - petroleum products, rubber,
    electronics, manufactured goods
  partners:
    US 20%, Malaysia 15%, Japan 9%, Hong Kong 7%, Thailand 6%
Imports:
    $65.8 billion (c.i.f., 1991 est.)
  commodities:
    includes transshipments from Malaysia - capital equipment, petroleum,
    chemicals, manufactured goods, foodstuffs
  partners:
    Japan 21%, US 16%, Malaysia 15%, Taiwan 4%
External debt:
    $3.8 billion (1991 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 9% (1991 est.); accounts for 29% of GDP (1990)
Electricity:
    4,000,000 kW capacity; 14,400 million kWh produced, 5,300 kWh per capita
    (1990)
Industries:
    petroleum refining, electronics, oil drilling equipment, rubber processing
    and rubber products, processed food and beverages, ship repair, entrepot
    trade, financial services, biotechnology
Agriculture:
    occupies a position of minor importance in the economy; self-sufficient in
    poultry and eggs; must import much of other food; major crops - rubber,
    copra, fruit, vegetables
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-83), $590 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $1.0 billion
Currency:
    Singapore dollar (plural - dollars); 1 Singapore dollar (S$) = 100 cents
Exchange rates:
    Singapore dollars (S$) per US$1 - 1.6596 (March 1992), 1.7276 (1991), 1.8125
    (1990), 1.9503 (1989), 2.0124 (1988), 2.1060 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    1 April - 31 March

:Singapore Communications

Railroads:
    38 km of 1.000-meter gauge
Highways:
    2,597 km total (1984)
Ports:
    Singapore
Merchant marine:
    468 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 8,751,619 GRT/14,195,718 DWT;
    includes 1 passenger-cargo, 126 cargo, 74 container, 7 roll-on/roll-off
    cargo, 5 refrigerated cargo, 18 vehicle carrier, 1 livestock carrier, 144
    petroleum tanker, 5 chemical tanker, 4 combination ore/oil, 1 specialized
    tanker, 5 liquefied gas, 74 bulk, 2 combination bulk, 1 short-sea passenger;
    note - many Singapore flag ships are foreign owned
Civil air:
    38 major transport aircraft (est.)
Airports:
    10 total, 10 usable; 10 with permanent-surface runways; 2 with runways over
    3,659 m; 4 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 3 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    good domestic facilities; good international service; good radio and
    television broadcast coverage; 1,110,000 telephones; broadcast stations - 13
    AM, 4 FM, 2 TV; submarine cables extend to Malaysia (Sabah and peninsular
    Malaysia), Indonesia, and the Philippines; satellite earth stations - 1
    Indian Ocean INTELSAT and 1 Pacific Ocean INTELSAT

:Singapore Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Navy, Air Force, People's Defense Force, Police Force
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 847,435; 626,914 fit for military service
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $1.7 billion, 4% of GDP (1990 est.)

:Slovenia Geography

Total area:
    20,296 km2
Land area:
    20,296 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than New Jersey
Land boundaries:
    998 km total; Austria 262 km, Croatia 455 km, Italy 199 km, Hungary 83 km
Coastline:
    32 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    NA nm
  Continental shelf:
    200 m or to depth of exploitation
  Exclusive economic zone:
    NA nm
  Exclusive fishing zone:
    NA nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    dispute with Croatia over fishing rights in the Adriatic; small vocal
    minority in northern Italy seeks the return of parts of southwestern
    Slovenia
Climate:
    Mediterranean climate on the coast, continental climate with mild to hot
    summers and cold winters in the plateaus and valleys to the east
Terrain:
    a short coastal strip on the Adriatic, an alpine mountain region adjacent to
    Italy, mixed mountain and valleys with numerous rivers to the east
Natural resources:
    lignite coal, lead, zinc, mercury, uranium, silver
Land use:
    arable land 10%; permanent crops 2%; meadows and pastures 20%; forest and
    woodland 45%; other 23%; includes irrigated 1%
Environment:
    Sava River polluted with domestic and industrial waste; heavy metals and
    toxic chemicals along coastal waters; near Koper, forest damage from air
    pollutants originating at metallurgical and chemical plants; subject to
    flooding and earthquakes

:Slovenia People

Population:
    1,963,000 (July 1992), growth rate 0.2% (1992)
Birth rate:
    NA births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    NA deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    NA migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    NA deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    70 years male, 78 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    NA children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Slovene(s); adjective - Slovenia
Ethnic divisions:
    Slovene 91%, Croat 3%, Serb 2%, Muslim 1%, other 3%
Religions:
    Roman Catholic 94%, Orthodox Catholic 2%, Muslim 1%, other 3%
Languages:
    Slovenian 91%, Serbo-Croatian 7%, other 2%
Literacy:
    99.2% (male 99.3%, female 99.1%) age 10 and over can read and write
Labor force:
    786,036; 2% agriculture, manufacturing and mining 46%
Organized labor:
    NA

:Slovenia Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Slovenia
Type:
    emerging democracy
Capital:
    Ljubljana
Administrative divisions:
    62 provinces (pokajine, singular - pokajina)
Independence:
    25 June 1991; 15 January 1992 from Yugoslavia
Constitution:
    adopted 23 December 1991, effective 23 December 1991
Legal system:
    based on civil law system
National holiday:
    NA
Executive branch:
    president, 4 vice presidents
Legislative branch:
    bicameral; consists of the State Assembly and the State Council; note - will
    take effect after next election
Judicial branch:
    NA
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Milan KUCAN (since 22 April 1990); Vice President Matjaz KMECL
    (since 11 April 1990); Vice President Ivan OMAN (since 11 April 1990); Vice
    President Dusan PLUT (since 11 April 1990); Vice President Ciril ZLOBEC
    (since 11 April 1990)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Janez DRNOVSEK (since 14 May 1992)
Political parties and leaders:
    Christian Democratic, Lozje PETERLE, chairman; Liberal Democratic, Janez
    DRNOVSEK, chairman; Social Democratic, Joze PUNIK, chairman; Socialist,
    Viktor ZAKELJ, chairman; Greens, Dusan PLUT, chairman; National Democratic,
    Rajko PIRNAT, chairman; Democratic Peoples Party, Marjan PODOBNIK, chairman;
    Reformed Socialists (former Communist Party), Ciril RIBICIC, chairman
Suffrage:
    at age 16 if employed, universal at age 18
Elections:
  President:
    last held NA (next to be held NA)
  State Assembly:
    last held NA (next to be held NA);
  State Council:
    last held NA (next to be held NA)
Communists:
    NA
Other political or pressure groups:
    NA
Member of:
    CSCE, IMF, UN
Diplomatic representation:
    Representative Ernest PETRIC; Chancery at 1300 19th Street NW, Washington,
    DC 20036; telephone (202) 828-1650
  US:
    Ambassador Ignac GOLOB, Embassy at NA (mailing address is APO AE 09862);
    telephone NA

:Slovenia Government

Flag:
    a three color flag, white (hoist side), blue, and red of equal width with
    the Slovenian seal (a shield with the image of Triglav in white against a
    blue background at the center; beneath it are two wavy blue lines depicting
    seas and rivers; around it, there are three six-sided stars arranged in an
    inverted triangle); the seal is located in the upper hoist side of the flag
    centered in the white and blue band

:Slovenia Economy

Overview:
    Slovenia was by far the most prosperous of the old Yugoslav republics, with
    a per capita income more than twice the Yugoslav average, indeed not far
    below the levels in neighboring Austria and Italy. Because of its strong
    ties to Western Europe and the small scale of damage during internecine
    fighting in Yugoslavia, Slovenia has the brightest prospects among the
    former Yugoslav republics for economic reform and recovery over the next few
    years. The political and economic disintegration of Yugoslavia, however, has
    led to severe short-term dislocations in production, employment, and trade
    ties. For example, overall industrial production fell 10% in 1991;
    particularly hard hit were the iron and steel, machine-building, chemical,
    and textile industries. Meanwhile, fighting has continued in other republics
    leading to further destruction of long-established trade channels and to an
    influx of tens of thousands of Croatian refugees. As in other former
    Communist areas in Eastern Europe, economic reform has often sputtered not
    only because of the vested interests of old bosses in retaining old rules of
    the game but also because of the tangible losses experienced by
    rank-and-file people in the transition to a more market-oriented system. The
    key program for breaking up and privatizing major industrial firms has not
    yet begun. Bright spots for encouraging Western investors are Slovenia's
    comparatively well-educated work force, its developed infrastructure, and
    its Western business attitudes. Slovenia in absolute terms is a small
    economy, and a little Western investment would go a long way.
GDP:
    $21 billion, per capita $10,700; real growth rate -10% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    15-20% (1991 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    10% (April 1992)
Budget:
    revenues $NA; expenditures $NA, including capital expenditures of $NA
Exports:
    $4,120 million (f.o.b., 1990)
  commodities:
    machinery and transport equipment 38%, other manufactured goods 44%,
    chemicals 9%, food and live animals 4.6%, raw materials 3%, beverages and
    tobacco less than 1%
  partners:
    principally the other former Yugoslav republics, Austria, and Italy
Imports:
    $4,679 million (c.i.f., 1990)
  commodities:
    machinery and transport equipment 35%, other manufactured goods 26.7%,
    chemicals 14.5%, raw materials 9.4%, fuels and lubricants 7%, food and live
    animals 6%
  partners:
    principally the other former Yugoslav republics, Germany, former USSR, US,
    Hungary, Italy, and Austria
External debt:
    $2.5 billion
Industrial production:
    industrial production has been declining at a rate of about 1% per month
    (1991-92), mostly because of lost markets in the other former Yugoslav
    republics
Electricity:
    2,900,000 kW capacity; 12,250 million kWh produced, 6,447 kWh per capita
    (1991)

:Slovenia Economy

Industries:
    ferrous metallurgy and rolling mill products, aluminum reduction and rolled
    products, lead and zinc smelting, electronics (including military
    electronics), trucks, electric power equipment, wood products, textiles,
    chemicals, machine tools
Agriculture:
    dominated by stock breeding (sheep and cattle) and dairy farming; main crops
    are potatoes, hops, hemp, and flax; although self-sufficient and having an
    export surplus in these commodities, Slovenia must import many other
    agricultural products and has a negative overall trade balance in this
    sector
Illicit drugs:
    NA
Economic aid:
    NA
Currency:
    Slovene Tolar (plural - Tolars); 1 Tolar (SLT) = 100 NA
Exchange rates:
    Tolars (SLT) per US$1 - 28 (January 1992)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Slovenia Communications

Railroads:
    NA
Highways:
    14,553 km total; 10,525 km paved, 4,028 km gravel
Inland waterways:
    NA
Pipelines:
    crude oil 290 km, natural gas 305 km
Ports:
    maritime - Koper
Merchant marine:
    0 ships (1,000 GRT or over) are under Slovenian flag; note - Slovenian
    owners control 21 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 334,995 GRT/558,621
    DWT; includes 14 bulk carriers and 7 general cargo ships all under Saint
    Vincent and the Grenadines flag
Civil air:
    NA major transport aircraft
Airports:
    3 main airports
Telecommunications:
    130,000 telephones; broadcast stations - 6 AM, 5 FM, 7 TV; 370,000 radios;
    330,000 TVs

:Slovenia Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Navy, Air Force
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 444,030; NA fit for military service; 18,219 reach military age
    (18) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - 13.5 billion Slovene Tolars, 4.5% of GDP (1992);
    note - conversion of the military budget into US dollars using the current
    exchange rate could produce misleading results

:Solomon Islands Geography

Total area:
    28,450 km2
Land area:
    27,540 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than Maryland
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    5,313 km
Maritime claims:
    (measured from claimed archipelagic baselines)
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    tropical monsoon; few extremes of temperature and weather
Terrain:
    mostly rugged mountains with some low coral atolls
Natural resources:
    fish, forests, gold, bauxite, phosphates
Land use:
    arable land 1%; permanent crops 1%; meadows and pastures 1%; forest and
    woodland 93%; other 4%
Environment:
    subject to typhoons, which are rarely destructive; geologically active
    region with frequent earth tremors
Note:
    located just east of Papua New Guinea in the South Pacific Ocean

:Solomon Islands People

Population:
    360,010 (July 1992), growth rate 3.5% (1992)
Birth rate:
    40 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    5 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    30 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    67 years male, 72 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    6.0 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Solomon Islander(s); adjective - Solomon Islander
Ethnic divisions:
    Melanesian 93.0%, Polynesian 4.0%, Micronesian 1.5%, European 0.8%, Chinese
    0.3%, other 0.4%
Religions:
    almost all at least nominally Christian; Anglican 34%, Roman Catholic 19%,
    Baptist 17%, United (Methodist/Presbyterian) 11%, Seventh-Day Adventist 10%,
    other Protestant 5%
Languages:
    120 indigenous languages; Melanesian pidgin in much of the country is lingua
    franca; English spoken by 1-2% of population
Literacy:
    NA% (male NA%, female NA%)
Labor force:
    23,448 economically active; agriculture, forestry, and fishing 32.4%;
    services 25%; construction, manufacturing, and mining 7.0%; commerce,
    transport, and finance 4.7% (1984)
Organized labor:
    NA, but most of the cash-economy workers have trade union representation

:Solomon Islands Government

Long-form name:
    none
Type:
    parliamentary democracy
Capital:
    Honiara
Administrative divisions:
    7 provinces and 1 town*; Central, Guadalcanal, Honiara*, Isabel, Makira,
    Malaita, Temotu, Western
Independence:
    7 July 1978 (from UK; formerly British Solomon Islands)
Constitution:
    7 July 1978
Legal system:
    common law
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 7 July (1978)
Executive branch:
    British monarch, governor general, prime minister, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    unicameral National Parliament
Judicial branch:
    High Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952), represented by Governor General
    Sir George LEPPING (since 27 June 1989, previously acted as governor general
    since 7 July 1988)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Solomon MAMALONI (since 28 March 1989); Deputy Prime Minister
    Sir Baddeley DEVESI (since NA October 1990)
Political parties and leaders:
    People's Alliance Party (PAP); United Party (UP), leader NA; Solomon Islands
    Liberal Party (SILP), Bartholemew ULUFA'ALU; Nationalist Front for Progress
    (NFP), Andrew NORI; Labor Party (LP), Joses TUHANUKU
Suffrage:
    universal at age 21
Elections:
  National Parliament:
    last held 22 February 1989 (next to be held NA February 1993); results -
    percent of vote by party NA; seats - (38 total) PAP 13, UP 6, NFP 4, SILP 4,
    LP 2, independents 9
Member of:
    ACP, AsDB, C, ESCAP, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, IDA, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO,
    IOC, ITU, SPC, SPF, UN, UNCTAD, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WMO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador (vacant) resides in Honiara (Solomon Islands)
  US:
    the ambassador in Papua New Guinea is accredited to the Solomon Islands;
    Embassy at Mud Alley, Honiara (mailing address is American Embassy, P. O.
    Box 561, Honiara); telephone (677) 23890; FAX (677) 23488
Flag:
    divided diagonally by a thin yellow stripe from the lower hoist-side corner;
    the upper triangle (hoist side) is blue with five white five-pointed stars
    arranged in an X pattern; the lower triangle is green

:Solomon Islands Economy

Overview:
    About 90% of the population depend on subsistence agriculture, fishing, and
    forestry for at least part of their livelihood. Agriculture, fishing, and
    forestry contribute about 70% to GDP, with the fishing and forestry sectors
    being important export earners. The service sector contributes about 25% to
    GDP. Most manufactured goods and petroleum products must be imported. The
    islands are rich in undeveloped mineral resources such as lead, zinc,
    nickel, and gold. The economy suffered from a severe cyclone in mid-1986
    that caused widespread damage to the infrastructure.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $200 million, per capita $600; real growth rate
    6.0% (1990 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    10.2% (1990)
Unemployment rate:
    NA%
Budget:
    revenues $44 million; expenditures $45 million, including capital
    expenditures of $22 million (1989 est.)
Exports:
    $67.3 million (f.o.b., 1990)
  commodities:
    fish 46%, timber 31%, copra 5%, palm oil 5%
  partners:
    Japan 51%, UK 12%, Thailand 9%, Netherlands 8%, Australia 2%, US 2% (1985)
Imports:
    $86.0 million (c.i.f., 1990)
  commodities:
    plant and machinery 30%, fuel 19%, food 16%
  partners:
    Japan 36%, US 23%, Singapore 9%, UK 9%, NZ 9%, Australia 4%, Hong Kong 4%,
    China 3% (1985)
External debt:
    $128 million (1988 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 0% (1987); accounts for 5% of GDP
Electricity:
    21,000 kW capacity; 39 million kWh produced, 115 kWh per capita (1990)
Industries:
    copra, fish (tuna)
Agriculture:
    including fishing and forestry, accounts for about 70% of GDP; mostly
    subsistence farming; cash crops - cocoa, beans, coconuts, palm kernels,
    timber; other products - rice, potatoes, vegetables, fruit, cattle, pigs;
    not self-sufficient in food grains; 90% of the total fish catch of 44,500
    metric tons was exported (1988)
Economic aid:
    Western (non-US) countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1980-89),
    $250 million
Currency:
    Solomon Islands dollar (plural - dollars); 1 Solomon Islands dollar (SI$) =
    100 cents
Exchange rates:
    Solomon Islands dollars (SI$) per US$1 - 2.8740 (March 1992), 2.7148 (1991),
    2.5288 (1990), 2.2932 (1989), 2.0825 (1988), 2.0033 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Solomon Islands Communications

Highways:
    about 2,100 km total (1982); 30 km paved, 290 km gravel, 980 km earth, 800
    private logging and plantation roads of varied construction
Ports:
    Honiara, Ringi Cove
Civil air:
    no major transport aircraft
Airports:
    33 total, 30 usable; 2 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 2,439 m; 3 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    3,000 telephones; broadcast stations - 4 AM, no FM, no TV; 1 Pacific Ocean
    INTELSAT earth station

:Solomon Islands Defense Forces

Branches:
    Police Force
Manpower availability:
    NA
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $NA, NA% of GDP

:Somalia Geography

Total area:
    637,660 km2
Land area:
    627,340 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than Texas
Land boundaries:
    2,340 km total; Djibouti 58 km, Ethiopia 1,600 km, Kenya 682 km
Coastline:
    3,025 km
Maritime claims:
  Territorial sea:
    200 nm
Disputes:
    southern half of boundary with Ethiopia is a Provisional Administrative
    Line; territorial dispute with Ethiopia over the Ogaden; possible claims to
    Djibouti and parts of Ethiopia and Kenya based on unification of ethnic
    Somalis
Climate:
    desert; northeast monsoon (December to February), cooler southwest monsoon
    (May to October); irregular rainfall; hot, humid periods (tangambili)
    between monsoons
Terrain:
    mostly flat to undulating plateau rising to hills in north
Natural resources:
    uranium and largely unexploited reserves of iron ore, tin, gypsum, bauxite,
    copper, salt
Land use:
    arable land 2%; permanent crops NEGL%; meadows and pastures 46%; forest and
    woodland 14%; other 38%; includes irrigated 3%
Environment:
    recurring droughts; frequent dust storms over eastern plains in summer;
    deforestation; overgrazing; soil erosion; desertification
Note:
    strategic location on Horn of Africa along southern approaches to Bab el
    Mandeb and route through Red Sea and Suez Canal

:Somalia People

Population:
    7,235,226 (July 1992), growth rate 2.1% (1992)
Birth rate:
    46 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    13 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    -12 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    115 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    56 years male, 57 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    7.1 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Somali(s); adjective - Somali
Ethnic divisions:
    Somali 85%, rest mainly Bantu; Arabs 30,000, Europeans 3,000, Asians 800
Religions:
    almost entirely Sunni Muslim
Languages:
    Somali (official); Arabic, Italian, English
Literacy:
    24% (male 36%, female 14%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    2,200,000; very few are skilled laborers; pastoral nomad 70%, agriculture,
    government, trading, fishing, handicrafts, and other 30%; 53% of population
    of working age (1985)
Organized labor:
    General Federation of Somali Trade Unions was controlled by the government
    prior to January 1991; the fall of SIAD regime may have led to collapse of
    Trade Union organization

:Somalia Government

Long-form name:
    none
Type:
    none
Capital:
    Mogadishu
Administrative divisions:
    16 regions (plural - NA, singular - gobolka); Bakool, Banaadir, Bari, Bay,
    Galguduud, Gedo, Hiiraan, Jubbada Dhexe, Jubbada Hoose, Mudug, Nugaal,
    Sanaag, Shabeellaha Dhexe, Shabeellaha Hoose, Togdheer, Woqooyi Galbeed
Independence:
    1 July 1960 (from a merger of British Somaliland, which became independent
    from the UK on 26 June 1960, and Italian Somaliland, which became
    independent from the Italian-administered UN trusteeship on 1 July 1960, to
    form the Somali Republic)
Constitution:
    25 August 1979, presidential approval 23 September 1979
National holiday:
    NA
Executive branch:
    president, two vice presidents, prime minister, Council of Ministers
    (cabinet)
Legislative branch:
    unicameral People's Assembly (Golaha Shacbiga)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Interim President ALI Mahdi Mohamed (since 27 January 1991)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister OMAR Arteh Ghalib (since 27 January 1991)
Political parties and leaders:
    the United Somali Congress (USC) ousted the former regime on 27 January
    1991; note - formerly the only party was the Somali Revolutionary Socialist
    Party (SRSP), headed by former President and Commander in Chief of the Army
    Maj. Gen. Mohamed SIAD Barre
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  President:
    last held 23 December 1986 (next to be held NA); results - President SIAD
    was reelected without opposition
  People's Assembly:
    last held 31 December 1984 (next to be held NA); results - SRSP was the only
    party; seats - (177 total, 171 elected) SRSP 171; note - the United Somali
    Congress (USC) ousted the regime of Maj. Gen. Mohamed SIAD Barre on 27
    January 1991; the provisional government has promised that a democratically
    elected government will be established
Member of:
    ACP, AfDB, AFESD, AL, AMF, CAEU, ECA, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, IDA, IDB, IFAD,
    IFC, IGADD, ILO, IMF, IMO, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, IOM (observer), ITU,
    LORCS, NAM, OAU, OIC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador (vacant); Chancery at Suite 710, 600 New Hampshire Avenue NW,
    Washington, DC 20037; telephone (202) 342-1575; there is a Somali Consulate
    General in New York; note - Somalian Embassy ceased operations on 8 May 1991

:Somalia Government

  US:
    Ambassador (vacant); Embassy at K-7, AFGOI Road, Mogadishu (mailing address
    is P. O. Box 574, Mogadishu); telephone [252] (01) 39971; note - US Embassy
    evacuated and closed indefinitely in January 1991
Flag:
    light blue with a large white five-pointed star in the center; design based
    on the flag of the UN (Italian Somaliland was a UN trust territory)

:Somalia Economy

Overview:
    One of the world's poorest and least developed countries, Somalia has few
    resources. Agriculture is the most important sector of the economy, with the
    livestock sector accounting for about 40% of GDP and about 65% of export
    earnings. Nomads and seminomads who are dependent upon livestock for their
    livelihoods make up more than half of the population. Crop production
    generates only 10% of GDP and employs about 20% of the work force. The main
    export crop is bananas; sugar, sorghum, and corn are grown for the domestic
    market. The small industrial sector is based on the processing of
    agricultural products and accounts for less than 10% of GDP. Greatly
    increased political turmoil in 1991-92 has resulted in a substantial drop in
    output, with widespread famine a grim fact of life.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $1.7 billion, per capita $210; real growth rate
    -1.4% (1988)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    210% (1989)
Unemployment rate:
    NA%
Budget:
    revenues $190 million; expenditures $195 million, including capital
    expenditures of $111 million (1989 est.)
Exports:
    $58.0 million (f.o.b., 1990 est.)
  commodities:
    bananas, livestock, fish, hides, skins
  partners:
    US 0.5%, Saudi Arabia, Italy, FRG (1986)
Imports:
    $249 million (c.i.f., 1990 est.)
  commodities:
    petroleum products, foodstuffs, construction materials
  partners:
    US 13%, Italy, FRG, Kenya, UK, Saudi Arabia (1986)
External debt:
    $1.9 billion (1989)
Industrial production:
    growth rate -5.0% (1988); accounts for 5% of GDP
Electricity:
    75,000 kW capacity; 60 million kWh produced, 10 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    a few small industries, including sugar refining, textiles, petroleum
    refining
Agriculture:
    dominant sector, led by livestock raising (cattle, sheep, goats); crops -
    bananas, sorghum, corn, mangoes, sugarcane; not self-sufficient in food;
    fishing potential largely unexploited
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $639 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $3.8 billion; OPEC
    bilateral aid (1979-89), $1.1 billion; Communist countries (1970-89), $336
    million
Currency:
    Somali shilling (plural - shillings); 1 Somali shilling (So. Sh.) = 100
    centesimi
Exchange rates:
    Somali shillings (So. Sh.) per US$1 - 3,800.00 (December 1990), 490.7
    (1989), 170.45 (1988), 105.18 (1987), 72.00 (1986)

:Somalia Economy

Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Somalia Communications

Highways:
    15,215 km total; including 2,335 km paved, 2,880 km gravel, and 10,000 km
    improved earth or stabilized soil (1983)
Pipelines:
    crude oil 15 km
Ports:
    Mogadishu, Berbera, Chisimayu, Bosaso
Merchant marine:
    3 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 6,913 GRT/8,718 DWT; includes 2 cargo,
    1 refrigerated cargo
Civil air:
    1 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    53 total, 40 usable; 7 with permanent-surface runways; 2 with runways over
    3,659 m; 6 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 15 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    minimal telephone and telegraph service; microwave and troposcatter system
    centered on Mogadishu connects a few towns; 6,000 telephones; broadcast
    stations - 2 AM, no FM, 1 TV; 1 Indian Ocean INTELSAT earth station;
    scheduled to receive an ARABSAT ground station

:Somalia Defense Forces

Branches:
    NA
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 1,673,542; 942,153 fit for military service
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $NA, NA% of GDP

:South Africa Geography

Total area:
    1,221,040 km2
Land area:
    1,221,040 km2; includes Walvis Bay, Marion Island, and Prince Edward Island
Comparative area:
    slightly less than twice the size of Texas
Land boundaries:
    4,973 km total; Botswana 1,840 km, Lesotho 909 km, Mozambique 491 km,
    Namibia 1,078 km, Swaziland 430 km, Zimbabwe 225 km
Coastline:
    2,881 km
Maritime claims:
  Continental shelf:
    200 m (depth) or to depth of exploitation
  Exclusive fishing zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    claim by Namibia to Walvis Bay exclave and 12 offshore islands administered
    by South Africa; South Africa and Namibia have agreed to jointly administer
    the area for an interim period; the terms and dates to be covered by joint
    administration arrangements have not been established at this time; and
    Namibia will continue to maintain a claim to sovereignty over the entire
    area
Climate:
    mostly semiarid; subtropical along coast; sunny days, cool nights
Terrain:
    vast interior plateau rimmed by rugged hills and narrow coastal plain
Natural resources:
    gold, chromium, antimony, coal, iron ore, manganese, nickel, phosphates,
    tin, uranium, gem diamonds, platinum, copper, vanadium, salt, natural gas
Land use:
    arable land 10%; permanent crops 1%; meadows and pastures 65%; forest and
    woodland 3%; other 21%; includes irrigated 1%
Environment:
    lack of important arterial rivers or lakes requires extensive water
    conservation and control measures
Note:
    Walvis Bay is an exclave of South Africa in Namibia; South Africa completely
    surrounds Lesotho and almost completely surrounds Swaziland

:South Africa People

Population:
    41,688,360 (July 1992), growth rate 2.6% (1992); includes the 10 so-called
    homelands, which are not recognized by the US
Population:
  four independent homelands:
    Bophuthatswana 2,489,347, growth rate 2.86%; Ciskei 1,088,476, growth rate
    2.99%; Transkei 4,746,796, growth rate 4.13%; Venda 718,207, growth rate
    3.81%
  six other homelands:
    Gazankulu 803,806, growth rate 3.96%; Kangwane 597,783, growth rate 3.60%;
    KwaNdebele 373,012, growth rate 3.40%; KwaZulu 5,748,950, growth rate 3.58%;
    Lebowa 2,924,584, growth rate 3.90%; QwaQwa 288,155, growth rate 3.60%
Birth rate:
    34 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    8 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    NEGL migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    50 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    62 years male, 67 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    4.4 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - South African(s); adjective - South African
Ethnic divisions:
    black 75.2%, white 13.6%, Colored 8.6%, Indian 2.6%
Religions:
    most whites and Coloreds and about 60% of blacks are Christian; about 60% of
    Indians are Hindu; Muslim 20%
Languages:
    Afrikaans, English (both official); many vernacular languages, including
    Zulu, Xhosa, North and South Sotho, Tswana
Literacy:
    76% (male 78%, female 75%) age 15 and over can read and write (1980)
Labor force:
    11,000,000 economically active (1989); services 34%, agriculture 30%,
    industry and commerce 29%, mining 7% (1985)
Organized labor:
    about 17% of total labor force belongs to a registered trade union (1989);
    African unions represent 15% of black labor force

:South Africa Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of South Africa; abbreviated RSA
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Pretoria (administrative); Cape Town (legislative); Bloemfontein (judicial)
Administrative divisions:
    4 provinces; Cape, Natal, Orange Free State, Transvaal; there are 10
    homelands not recognized by the US - 4 independent (Bophuthatswana, Ciskei,
    Transkei, Venda) and 6 other (Gazankulu, Kangwane, KwaNdebele, KwaZulu,
    Lebowa, QwaQwa)
Independence:
    31 May 1910 (from UK)
Constitution:
    3 September 1984
Legal system:
    based on Roman-Dutch law and English common law; accepts compulsory ICJ
    jurisdiction, with reservations
National holiday:
    Republic Day, 31 May (1910)
Executive branch:
    state president, Executive Council (cabinet), Ministers' Councils (from the
    three houses of Parliament)
Legislative branch:
    tricameral Parliament (Parlement) consists of the House of Assembly
    (Volksraad; whites), House of Representatives (Raad van Verteenwoordigers;
    Coloreds), and House of Delegates (Raad van Afgevaardigdes; Indians)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State and Head of Government:
    State President Frederik W. DE KLERK (since 13 September 1989)
Political parties and leaders:
  white political parties and leaders:
    National Party (NP), Frederik W. DE KLERK (majority party); Conservative
    Party (CP), Dr. Andries P. TREURNICHT (official opposition party);
    Democratic Party (DP), Zach DE BEER
  Colored political parties and leaders:
    Labor Party (LP), Allan HENDRICKSE (majority party); Freedom Party; note -
    the Democratic Reform Party (DRP) and the United Democratic Party (UDP) were
    disbanded in May 1991
  Indian political parties and leaders:
    Solidarity, J. N. REDDY (majority party); National People's Party (NPP),
    Amichand RAJBANSI; Merit People's Party
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18, but voting rights are racially based
Elections:
  House of Assembly (whites):
    last held 6 September 1989 (next to be held by NA March 1995); results - NP
    58%, CP 23%, DP 19%; seats - (178 total, 166 elected) NP 103, CP 41, DP 34;
    note - by February 1992 because of byelections, changes in number of seats
    held by parties were as follows: NP 102, CP 42, DP 33, vacant 1
  House of Representatives (Coloreds):
    last held 6 September 1989 (next to be held no later than March 1995);
    results - percent of vote by party NA; seats - (85 total, 80 elected) LP 69,
    DRP 5, UDP 3, Freedom Party 1, independents 2; note - since the National
    Party became multiracial, by February 1992 many representatives from other
    parties have changed their allegiance causing the following changes in
    seating: LP 39, NP 38, Freedom Party 1, independents 7

:South Africa Government

  House of Delegates (Indians):
    last held 6 September 1989 (next to be held no later than March 1995);
    results - percent of vote by party NA; seats - (45 total, 40 elected)
    Solidarity 16, NPP 9, Merit People's Party 3, independents 6, other 6; note
    - due to delegates changing party affiliation, seating as of February 1992
    is as follows: Solidarity 25, NPP 7, Merit People's Party 2, other 5,
    independents 5, vacancy 1
Communists:
    South African Communist Party, Chris HANI, secretary general, and Joe SLOVO,
    national chairman
Other political or pressure groups:
    African National Congress (ANC), Nelson MANDELA, president; Inkatha Freedom
    Party (IFP), Mangosuthu BUTHELEZI, president; Pan-Africanist Congress (PAC),
    Clarence MAKWETU, president
Member of:
    BIS, CCC, ECA, GATT, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO (suspended), ICC, IDA, IFC, IMF,
    INTELSAT, ISO, ITU (suspended), LORCS, SACU, UN, UNCTAD, WFTU, WHO, WIPO,
    WMO (suspended)
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Harry SCHWARZ; Chancery at 3051 Massachusetts Avenue NW,
    Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 232-4400; there are South African
    Consulates General in Beverly Hills (California), Chicago, Houston, and New
    York
  US:
    Ambassador William L. SWING; Embassy at Thibault House, 225 Pretorius
    Street, Pretoria; telephone [27] (12) 28-4266, FAX [27] (12) 21-92-78; there
    are US Consulates General in Cape Town, Durban, and Johannesburg
Flag:
    actually four flags in one - three miniature flags reproduced in the center
    of the white band of the former flag of the Netherlands, which has three
    equal horizontal bands of orange (top), white, and blue; the miniature flags
    are a vertically hanging flag of the old Orange Free State with a horizontal
    flag of the UK adjoining on the hoist side and a horizontal flag of the old
    Transvaal Republic adjoining on the other side

:South Africa Economy

Overview:
    Many of the white one-seventh of the South African population enjoy incomes,
    material comforts, and health and educational standards equal to those of
    Western Europe. In contrast, most of the remaining population suffers from
    the poverty patterns of the Third World, including unemployment, lack of job
    skills, and barriers to movement into higher-paying fields. Inputs and
    outputs thus do not move smoothly into the most productive employments, and
    the effectiveness of the market is further lowered by international
    constraints on dealings with South Africa. The main strength of the economy
    lies in its rich mineral resources, which provide two-thirds of exports.
    Average growth of less than 2% in output in recent years falls far short of
    the 5% to 6% level needed to absorb some 300,000 new entrants to the labor
    force annually. Economic developments in the 1990s will be driven partly by
    the changing relations among the various ethnic groups.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $104 billion, per capita $2,600; real growth rate
    - 0.5% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    15.7% (March 1992)
Unemployment rate:
    40% (1991); well over 50% in some homeland areas (1991 est.)
Budget:
    revenues $29.4 billion; expenditures $35.0 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $1.1 billion (FY93 est.)
Exports:
    $24.0 billion (f.o.b., 1991)
  commodities:
    gold 25-30%, minerals and metals 20-25%, food 5%, chemicals 3%
  partners:
    Italy, Japan, US, FRG, UK, other EC members, Hong Kong
Imports:
    $18.8 billion (c.i.f., 1991)
  commodities:
    machinery 32%, transport equipment 15%, chemicals 11%, oil, textiles,
    scientific instruments, base metals
  partners:
    FRG, Japan, UK, US, Italy
External debt:
    $19.0 billion (December 1991)
Industrial production:
    growth rate NA%; accounts for about 40% of GDP
Electricity:
    46,000,000 kW capacity; 180,000 million kWh produced, 4,100 kWh per capita
    (1991)
Industries:
    mining (world's largest producer of platinum, gold, chromium), automobile
    assembly, metalworking, machinery, textile, iron and steel, chemical,
    fertilizer, foodstuffs
Agriculture:
    accounts for about 5% of GDP and 30% of labor force; diversified
    agriculture, with emphasis on livestock; products - cattle, poultry, sheep,
    wool, milk, beef, corn, wheat, sugarcane, fruits, vegetables;
    self-sufficient in food
Economic aid:
    NA
Currency:
    rand (plural - rand); 1 rand (R) = 100 cents

:South Africa Economy

Exchange rates:
    rand (R) per US$1 - 2.7814 (January 1992), 2.7563 (1991), 2.5863 (1990),
    2.6166 (1989), 2.2611 (1988), 2.0350 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    1 April - 31 March

:South Africa Communications

Railroads:
    20,638 km route distance total; 35,079 km of 1.067-meter gauge trackage
    (counts double and multiple tracking as single track); 314 km of 610 mm
    gauge
Highways:
    188,309 km total; 54,013 km paved, 134,296 km crushed stone, gravel, or
    improved earth
Pipelines:
    crude oil 931 km, petroleum products 1,748 km, natural gas 322 km
Ports:
    Durban, Cape Town, Port Elizabeth, Richard's Bay, Saldanha, Mosselbaai,
    Walvis Bay
Merchant marine:
    5 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 213,708 GRT/201,043 DWT; includes 4
    container, 1 vehicle carrier
Civil air:
    90 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    901 total, 732 usable; 132 with permanent-surface runways; 5 with runways
    over 3,659 m; 10 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 224 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    the system is the best developed, most modern, and has the highest capacity
    in Africa; it consists of carrier-equipped open-wire lines, coaxial cables,
    radio relay links, fiber optic cable, and radiocommunication stations; key
    centers are Bloemfontein, Cape Town, Durban, Johannesburg, Port Elizabeth,
    and Pretoria; over 4,500,000 telephones; broadcast stations - 14 AM, 286 FM,
    67 TV; 1 submarine cable; satellite earth stations - 1 Indian Ocean INTELSAT
    and 2 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT

:South Africa Defense Forces

Branches:
    South African Defense Force (SADF; including Army, Navy, Air Force, Medical
    Services), South African Police (SAP)
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 10,051,202; 6,133,484 fit for military service; 420,275 reach
    military age (18) annually; obligation for service in Citizen Force or
    Commandos begins at 18; volunteers for service in permanent force must be
    17; national service obligation is one year; figures include the so-called
    homelands not recognized by the US
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $3.5 billion, about 3% of GDP (FY92)

:South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands Geography

Total area:
    4,066 km2
Land area:
    4,066 km2; includes Shag and Clerke Rocks, South Georgia, Bird Island, South
    Sandwich Islands
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than Rhode Island
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    undetermined
Maritime claims:
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    administered by the UK, claimed by Argentina
Climate:
    variable, with mostly westerly winds throughout the year, interspersed with
    periods of calm; nearly all precipitation falls as snow
Terrain:
    most of the islands, rising steeply from the sea, are rugged and
    mountainous; South Georgia is largely barren and has steep, glacier-covered
    mountains; the South Sandwich Islands are of volcanic origin with some
    active volcanoes
Natural resources:
    fish
Land use:
    arable land 0%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 0%; forest and
    woodland 0%; other 100%; largely covered by permanent ice and snow with some
    sparse vegetation consisting of grass, moss, and lichen
Environment:
    reindeer, introduced early in this century, live on South Georgia; weather
    conditions generally make it difficult to approach the South Sandwich
    Islands; the South Sandwich Islands are subject to active volcanism
Note:
    the north coast of South Georgia has several large bays, which provide good
    anchorage

:South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands People

Population:
    no permanent population; there is a small military garrison on South
    Georgia, and the British Antarctic Survey has a biological station on Bird
    Island; the South Sandwich Islands are uninhabited

:South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands Government

Long-form name:
    South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands (no short-form name)
Type:
    dependent territory of the UK
Capital:
    none; Grytviken on South Georgia is the garrison town
Administrative divisions:
    none (dependent territory of the UK)
Independence:
    none (dependent territory of the UK)
Constitution:
    3 October 1985
Legal system:
    English common law
National holiday:
    Liberation Day, 14 June (1982)
Executive branch:
    British monarch, commissioner
Legislative branch:
    none
Judicial branch:
    none
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952), represented by Commissioner
    William Hugh FULLERTON (since 1988; resident at Stanley, Falkland Islands)

:South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands Economy

Overview:
    Some fishing takes place in adjacent waters. There is a potential source of
    income from harvesting fin fish and krill. The islands receive income from
    postage stamps produced in the UK.
Budget:
    revenues $291,777; expenditures $451,011, including capital expenditures of
    $NA (FY88 est.)
Electricity:
    900 kW capacity; 2 million kWh produced, NA kWh per capita (1990)

:South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands Communications

Highways:
    NA
Ports:
    Grytviken on South Georgia
Airports:
    5 total, 5 usable; 2 with permanent-surface runways; 1 with runway
    2,440-3,659 m
Telecommunications:
    coastal radio station at Grytviken; no broadcast stations

:South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands Defense Forces

Note:
    defense is the responsibility of the UK

:Spain Geography

Total area:
    504,750 km2
Land area:
    499,400 km2; includes Balearic Islands, Canary Islands, and five places of
    sovereignty (plazas de soberania) on and off the coast of Morocco - Ceuta,
    Mellila, Islas Chafarinas, Penon de Alhucemas, and Penon de Velez de la
    Gomera
Comparative area:
    slightly more than twice the size of Oregon
Land boundaries:
    1,903.2 km total; Andorra 65 km, France 623 km, Gibraltar 1.2 km, Portugal
    1,214 km
Coastline:
    4,964 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    Gibraltar question with UK; Spain controls five places of sovereignty
    (plazas de soberania) on and off the coast of Morocco - the coastal enclaves
    of Ceuta and Melilla, which Morocco contests, as well as the islands of
    Penon de Alhucemas, Penon de Velez de la Gomera, and Islas Chafarinas
Climate:
    temperate; clear, hot summers in interior, more moderate and cloudy along
    coast; cloudy, cold winters in interior, partly cloudy and cool along coast
Terrain:
    large, flat to dissected plateau surrounded by rugged hills; Pyrenees in
    north
Natural resources:
    coal, lignite, iron ore, uranium, mercury, pyrites, fluorspar, gypsum, zinc,
    lead, tungsten, copper, kaolin, potash, hydropower
Land use:
    arable land 31%; permanent crops 10%; meadows and pastures 21%; forest and
    woodland 31%; other 7%; includes irrigated 6%
Environment:
    deforestation; air pollution
Note:
    strategic location along approaches to Strait of Gibraltar

:Spain People

Population:
    39,118,399 (July 1992), growth rate 0.2% (1992)
Birth rate:
    11 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    9 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    NEGL migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    7 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    74 years male, 81 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    1.4 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Spaniard(s); adjective - Spanish
Ethnic divisions:
    composite of Mediterranean and Nordic types
Religions:
    Roman Catholic 99%, other sects 1%
Languages:
    Castilian Spanish; second languages include Catalan 17%, Galician 7%, Basque
    2%
Literacy:
    95% (male 97%, female 93%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    14,621,000; services 53%, industry 24%, agriculture 14%, construction 9%
    (1988)
Organized labor:
    less 10% of labor force (1988)

:Spain Government

Long-form name:
    Kingdom of Spain
Type:
    parliamentary monarchy
Capital:
    Madrid
Administrative divisions:
    17 autonomous communities (comunidades autonomas, singular - comunidad
    autonoma); Andalucia, Aragon, Asturias, Canarias, Cantabria, Castilla-La
    Mancha, Castilla y Leon, Cataluna, Communidad Valencia, Extremadura,
    Galicia, Islas Baleares, La Rioja, Madrid, Murcia, Navarra, Pais Vasco; note
    - there are five places of sovereignty on and off the coast of Morocco
    (Ceuta, Mellila, Islas Chafarinas, Penon de Alhucemas, and Penon de Velez de
    la Gomera) with administrative status unknown
Independence:
    1492 (expulsion of the Moors and unification)
Constitution:
    6 December 1978, effective 29 December 1978
Legal system:
    civil law system, with regional applications; does not accept compulsory ICJ
    jurisdiction
National holiday:
    National Day, 12 October
Executive branch:
    monarch, president of the government (prime minister), deputy prime
    minister, Council of Ministers (cabinet), Council of State
Legislative branch:
    bicameral The General Courts or National Assembly (Las Cortes Generales)
    consists of an upper house or Senate (Senado) and a lower house or Congress
    of Deputies (Congreso de los Diputados)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court (Tribunal Supremo)
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    King JUAN CARLOS I (since 22 November 1975)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Felipe GONZALEZ Marquez (since 2 December 1982); Deputy Prime
    Minister Narcis SERRA (since 13 March 1991)
Political parties and leaders:
    principal national parties, from right to left - Popular Party (PP), Jose
    Maria AZNAR; Popular Democratic Party (PDP), Luis DE GRANDES; Social
    Democratic Center (CDS), Rafael Calvo ORTEGA; Spanish Socialist Workers
    Party (PSOE), Felipe GONZALEZ Marquez; Socialist Democracy Party (DS),
    Ricardo Garcia DAMBORENEA; Spanish Communist Party (PCE), Julio ANGUITA;
    chief regional parties - Convergence and Unity (CiU), Jordi PUJOL Saley, in
    Catalonia; Basque Nationalist Party (PNV), Xabier ARZALLUS; Basque
    Solidarity (EA), Carlos GARAICOETXEA Urizza; Basque Popular Unity (HB), Jon
    IDIGORAS; Basque Left (EE), Kepa AULESTIA; Andalusian Party (PA), Pedro
    PACHECO; Independent Canary Group (AIC); Aragon Regional Party (PAR);
    Valencian Union (UV)
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  Senate:
    last held 29 October 1989 (next to be held NA October 1993); results -
    percent of vote by party NA; seats - (208 total) PSOE 106, PP 79, CiU 10,
    PNV 4, HB 3, AIC 1, other 5

:Spain Government

  Congress of Deputies:
    last held 29 October 1989 (next to be held NA October 1993); results - PSOE
    39.6%, PP 25.8%, CDS 9%, Communist-led coalition (IU) 9%, CiU 5%, PNV 1.2%,
    HB 1%, PA 1%, other 8.4%; seats - (350 total) PSOE 175, PP 106, CiU 18, IU
    17, CDS 14, PNV 5, HB 4, other 11
Communists:
    PCE membership declined from a possible high of 160,000 in 1977 to roughly
    60,000 in 1987; the party gained almost 1 million voters and 10 deputies in
    the 1989 election; voters came mostly from the disgruntled socialist left;
    remaining strength is in labor, where it dominates the Workers Commissions
    trade union (one of the country's two major labor centrals), which claims a
    membership of about 1 million; experienced a modest recovery in 1986
    national election, nearly doubling the share of the vote it received in 1982
Other political or pressure groups:
    on the extreme left, the Basque Fatherland and Liberty (ETA) and the First
    of October Antifascist Resistance Group (GRAPO) use terrorism to oppose the
    government; free labor unions (authorized in April 1977) include the
    Communist-dominated Workers Commissions (CCOO); the Socialist General Union
    of Workers (UGT), and the smaller independent Workers Syndical Union (USO);
    the Catholic Church; business and landowning interests; Opus Dei; university
    students
Member of:
    AG (observer), AsDB, BIS, CCC, CE, CERN, COCOM, CSCE, EBRD, EC, ECE, ECLAC,
    EIB, ESA, FAO, G-8, GATT, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, IDA, IEA,
    IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INMARSAT, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, IOM (observer),
    ISO, ITU, LAIA (observer), LORCS, NAM (guest), NATO, NEA, OAS (observer),
    OECD, PCA, UN, UNAVEM, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WEU, WHO, WIPO, WMO,
    WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Jaime de OJEDA; Chancery at 2700 15th Street NW, Washington, DC
    20009; telephone (202) 265-0190 or 0191; there are Spanish Consulates
    General in Boston, Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami, New Orleans, New
    York, San Francisco, and San Juan (Puerto Rico)
  US:
    Ambassador Joseph ZAPPALA; Embassy at Serrano 75, 28006 Madrid (mailing
    address is APO AE 09642); telephone [34] (1) 577-4000, FAX [34] (1)
    577-5735; there is a US Consulate General in Barcelona and a Consulate in
    Bilbao
Flag:
    three horizontal bands of red (top), yellow (double width), and red with the
    national coat of arms on the hoist side of the yellow band; the coat of arms
    includes the royal seal framed by the Pillars of Hercules, which are the two
    promontories (Gibraltar and Ceuta) on either side of the eastern end of the
    Strait of Gibraltar

:Spain Economy

Overview:
    Spain has done well since joining the EC in 1986. In accordance with its
    accession treaty, Spain has almost wholly liberalized trade and capital
    markets. Foreign and domestic investment has spurred average growth of 4%
    per year. Beginning in 1989, Madrid implemented a tight monetary policy to
    fight inflation - around 7% in 1989 and 1990. As a result growth slowed to
    2.5% in 1991. Spanish policymakers remain concerned with inflation - still
    hovering at 6%. Government officials also are worried about 16%
    unemployment, although many people listed as unemployed work in the
    underground economy. Spanish economists believe that structural adjustments
    due to the ongoing integration of the European market are likely to lead to
    more displaced workers.
GDP:
    purchasing power equivalent - $487.5 billion, per capita $12,400; real
    growth rate 2.5% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    5.9% (1991 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    16.0% (1991 est.)
Budget:
    revenues $111.0 billion; expenditures $115.9 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $20.8 billion (1991 est.)
Exports:
    $60.1 billion (f.o.b., 1991)
  commodities:
    cars and trucks, semifinished manufactured goods, foodstuffs, machinery
  partners:
    EC 71.0%, US 4.9%, other developed countries 7.9%
Imports:
    $93.1 billion (c.i.f., 1990)
  commodities:
    machinery, transport equipment, fuels, semifinished goods, foodstuffs,
    consumer goods, chemicals
  partners:
    EC 60.0%, US 8.0%, other developed countries 11.5%, Middle East 2.6%
External debt:
    $45 billion (1991 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 2.0% (1991 est.)
Electricity:
    46,589,000 kW capacity; 157,040 million kWh produced, 3,980 kWh per capita
    (1991)
Industries:
    textiles and apparel (including footwear), food and beverages, metals and
    metal manufactures, chemicals, shipbuilding, automobiles, machine tools,
    tourism
Agriculture:
    accounts for about 5% of GDP and 14% of labor force; major products - grain,
    vegetables, olives, wine grapes, sugar beets, citrus fruit, beef, pork,
    poultry, dairy; largely self-sufficient in food; fish catch of 1.4 million
    metric tons is among top 20 nations
Illicit drugs:
    key European gateway country for Latin American cocaine entering the
    European market
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-87), $1.9 billion; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-79), $545.0 million; not
    currently a recipient

:Spain Economy

Currency:
    peseta (plural - pesetas); 1 peseta (Pta) = 100 centimos
Exchange rates:
    pesetas (Ptas) per US$1 - 104.79 (March 1992), 103.91 (1991), 101.93 (1990),
    118.38 (1989), 116.49 (1988), 123.48 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Spain Communications

Railroads:
    15,430 km total; Spanish National Railways (RENFE) operates 12,691 km
    1.668-meter gauge, 6,184 km electrified, and 2,295 km double track; FEVE
    (government-owned narrow-gauge railways) operates 1,821 km of predominantly
    1.000-meter gauge and 441 km electrified; privately owned railways operate
    918 km of predominantly 1.000-meter gauge, 512 km electrified, and 56 km
    double track
Highways:
    150,839 km total; 82,513 km national (includes 2,433 km limited-access
    divided highway, 63,042 km bituminous treated, 17,038 km intermediate
    bituminous, concrete, or stone block) and 68,326 km provincial or local
    roads (bituminous treated, intermediate bituminous, or stone block)
Inland waterways:
    1,045 km, but of minor economic importance
Pipelines:
    crude oil 265 km, petroleum products 1,794 km, natural gas 1,666 km
Ports:
    Algeciras, Alicante, Almeria, Barcelona, Bilbao, Cadiz, Cartagena, Castellon
    de la Plana, Ceuta, El Ferrol del Caudillo, Puerto de Gijon, Huelva, La
    Coruna, Las Palmas (Canary Islands), Mahon, Malaga, Melilla, Rota, Santa
    Cruz de Tenerife, Sagunto, Tarragona, Valencia, Vigo, and 175 minor ports
Merchant marine:
    278 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 2,915,409 GRT/5,228,378 DWT; includes
    2 passenger, 9 short-sea passenger, 86 cargo, 13 refrigerated cargo, 15
    container, 32 roll-on/roll-off cargo, 4 vehicle carrier, 48 petroleum
    tanker, 14 chemical tanker, 7 liquefied gas, 3 specialized tanker, 45 bulk
Civil air:
    210 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    105 total, 99 usable; 60 with permanent-surface runways; 4 with runways over
    3,659 m; 22 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 25 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    generally adequate, modern facilities; 15,350,464 telephones; broadcast
    stations - 190 AM, 406 (134 repeaters) FM, 100 (1,297 repeaters) TV; 22
    coaxial submarine cables; 2 communications satellite earth stations
    operating in INTELSAT (Atlantic Ocean and Indian Ocean); MARECS, INMARSAT,
    and EUTELSAT systems; tropospheric links

:Spain Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines, Civil Guard, National Police, Coastal Civil
    Guard
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 10,205,741; 8,271,151 fit for military service; 337,407 reach
    military age (20) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $8.7 billion, 2% of GDP (1991)

:Spratly Islands Geography

Total area:
    NA but less than 5 km2
Land area:
    less than 5 km2; includes 100 or so islets, coral reefs, and sea mounts
    scattered over the South China Sea
Comparative area:
    undetermined
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    926 km
Maritime claims:
    undetermined
Disputes:
    all of the Spratly Islands are claimed by China, Taiwan, and Vietnam; parts
    of them are claimed by Malaysia and the Philippines; in 1984, Brunei
    established an exclusive economic zone, which encompasses Louisa Reef, but
    has not publicly claimed the island
Climate:
    tropical
Terrain:
    flat
Natural resources:
    fish, guano; undetermined oil and natural gas potential
Land use:
    arable land 0%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 0%; forest and
    woodland 0%; other 100%
Environment:
    subject to typhoons; includes numerous small islands, atolls, shoals, and
    coral reefs
Note:
    strategically located near several primary shipping lanes in the central
    South China Sea; serious navigational hazard

:Spratly Islands People

Population:
    no permanent inhabitants; garrisons

:Spratly Islands Government

Long-form name:
    none

:Spratly Islands Economy

Overview:
    Economic activity is limited to commercial fishing, proximity to nearby oil-
    and gas-producing sedimentary basins suggests the potential for oil and gas
    deposits, but the Spratlys region is largely unexplored, and there are no
    reliable estimates of potential reserves; commercial exploitation has yet to
    be developed.
Industries:
    none

:Spratly Islands Communications

Ports:
    no natural harbors
Airports:
    2 total, 2 usable; none with runways over 2,439 m; 1 with runways
    1,220-2,439 m

:Spratly Islands Defense Forces

Note:
    44 small islands or reefs are occupied by China, Malaysia, the Philippines,
    Taiwan, and Vietnam

:Sri Lanka Geography

Total area:
    65,610 km2
Land area:
    64,740 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than West Virginia
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    1,340 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    24 nm
  Continental shelf:
    edge of continental margin or 200 nm
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    tropical; monsoonal; northeast monsoon (December to March); southwest
    monsoon (June to October)
Terrain:
    mostly low, flat to rolling plain; mountains in south-central interior
Natural resources:
    limestone, graphite, mineral sands, gems, phosphates, clay
Land use:
    arable land 16%; permanent crops 17%; meadows and pastures 7%; forest and
    woodland 37%; other 23%; includes irrigated 8%
Environment:
    occasional cyclones, tornados; deforestation; soil erosion
Note:
    only 29 km from India across the Palk Strait; near major Indian Ocean sea
    lanes

:Sri Lanka People

Population:
    17,631,528 (July 1992), growth rate 1.2% (1992); note - about 120,000 people
    fled to India in 1991 because of fighting between government forces and
    Tamil insurgents; about 200,000 Tamils will be repatriated in 1992
Birth rate:
    20 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    6 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    -2 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    21 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    69 years male, 74 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    2.2 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Sri Lankan(s); adjective - Sri Lankan
Ethnic divisions:
    Sinhalese 74%; Tamil 18%; Moor 7%; Burgher, Malay, and Veddha 1%
Religions:
    Buddhist 69%, Hindu 15%, Christian 8%, Muslim 8%
Languages:
    Sinhala (official); Sinhala and Tamil listed as national languages; Sinhala
    spoken by about 74% of population, Tamil spoken by about 18%; English
    commonly used in government and spoken by about 10% of the population
Literacy:
    86% (male 91%, female 81%) age 15 and over can read and write (1981)
Labor force:
    6,600,000; agriculture 45.9%, mining and manufacturing 13.3%, trade and
    transport 12.4%, services and other 28.4% (1985 est.)
Organized labor:
    about 30% of labor force, over 50% of which are employed on tea, rubber, and
    coconut estates

:Sri Lanka Government

Long-form name:
    Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Colombo
Administrative divisions:
    the administrative structure now includes 9 provinces - Central, Eastern,
    North, North Central, North Western, Sabaragamuwa, Southern, Uva, and
    Western and 24 districts - Amparai, Anuradhapura, Badulla, Batticaloa,
    Colombo, Galle, Gampaha, Hambantota, Jaffna, Kalutara, Kandy, Kegalla,
    Kurunegala, Mannar, Matale, Matara, Moneragala, Mullaittivu, Nuwara Eliya,
    Polonnaruwa, Puttalam, Ratnapura, Trincomalee, Vavuniya; note - in the
    future there may be only 8 provinces (combining the two provinces of North
    and Eastern into one province of North Eastern) and 25 districts (adding
    Kilinochchi to the existing districts)
Independence:
    4 February 1948 (from UK; formerly Ceylon)
Constitution:
    31 August 1978
Legal system:
    a highly complex mixture of English common law, Roman-Dutch, Muslim,
    Sinhalese, and customary law; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
National holiday:
    Independence and National Day, 4 February (1948)
Executive branch:
    president, prime minister, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Parliament
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Ranasinghe PREMADASA (since 2 January 1989)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Dingiri Banda WIJETUNGE (since 6 March 1989)
Political parties and leaders:
    United National Party (UNP), Ranasinghe PREMADASA; Sri Lanka Freedom Party
    (SLFP), Sirimavo BANDARANAIKE; Sri Lanka Muslim Congress (SLMC), M. H. M.
    ASHRAFF; All Ceylon Tamil Congress (ACTC), Kumar PONNAMBALAM; People's
    United Front (MEP, or Mahajana Eksath Peramuna), Dinesh GUNAWARDENE; Eelam
    Democratic Front (EDF), Edward Sebastian PILLAI; Tamil United Liberation
    Front (TULF), leader (vacant); Eelam Revolutionary Organization of Students
    (EROS), Velupillai BALAKUMARAN; New Socialist Party (NSSP, or Nava Sama
    Samaja Party), Vasudeva NANAYAKKARA; Lanka Socialist Party/Trotskyite (LSSP,
    or Lanka Sama Samaja Party), Colin R. de SILVA; Sri Lanka People's Party
    (SLMP, or Sri Lanka Mahajana Party), Ossie ABEYGUNASEKERA; Communist Party,
    K. P. SILVA; Communist Party/Beijing (CP/B), N. SHANMUGATHASAN; note - the
    United Socialist Alliance (USA) includes the NSSP, LSSP, SLMP, CP/M, and
    CP/B
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  President:
    last held 19 December 1988 (next to be held NA December 1994); results -
    Ranasinghe PREMADASA (UNP) 50%, Sirimavo BANDARANAIKE (SLFP) 45%, other 5%

:Sri Lanka Government

  Parliament:
    last held 15 February 1989 (next to be held by NA February 1995); results -
    UNP 51%, SLFP 32%, SLMC 4%, TULF 3%, USA 3%, EROS 3%, MEP 1%, other 3%;
    seats - (225 total) UNP 125, SLFP 67, other 33
Other political or pressure groups:
    Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) and other smaller Tamil separatist
    groups; Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna (JVP or People's Liberation Front);
    Buddhist clergy; Sinhalese Buddhist lay groups; labor unions
Member of:
    AsDB, C, CCC, CP, ESCAP, FAO, G-24, G-77, GATT, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC,
    ICFTU, IDA, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INMARSAT, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC,
    ISO, ITU, LORCS, NAM, PCA, SAARC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WFTU,
    WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador W. Susanta De ALWIS; Chancery at 2148 Wyoming Avenue NW,
    Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 483-4025 through 4028; there is a Sri
    Lankan Consulate in New York
  US:
    Ambassador Marion V. CREEKMORE, Jr.; Embassy at 210 Galle Road, Colombo 3
    (mailing address is P. O. Box 106, Colombo); telephone [94] (1) 44180107,
    FAX [94] (1) 43-73-45
Flag:
    yellow with two panels; the smaller hoist-side panel has two equal vertical
    bands of green (hoist side) and orange; the other panel is a large dark red
    rectangle with a yellow lion holding a sword, and there is a yellow bo leaf
    in each corner; the yellow field appears as a border that goes around the
    entire flag and extends between the two panels

:Sri Lanka Economy

Overview:
    Agriculture, forestry, and fishing dominate the economy, employing half of
    the labor force and accounting for one quarter of GDP. The plantation crops
    of tea, rubber, and coconuts provide about one-third of export earnings. The
    economy has been plagued by high rates of unemployment since the late 1970s.
    Economic growth, which has been depressed by ethnic unrest, accelerated in
    1991 as domestic conditions began to improve.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $7.2 billion, per capita $410; real growth rate
    5.0% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    10% (1991)
Unemployment rate:
    14% (1991 est.)
Budget:
    revenues $2.0 billion; expenditures $3.7 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $500 million (1992)
Exports:
    $2.3 billion (f.o.b., 1991)
  commodities:
    textiles and garment, teas, petroleum products, coconut, rubber,
    agricultural products, gems and jewelry, marine products
  partners:
    US 25%, FRG, Japan, UK, Belgium, Taiwan, Hong Kong, China
Imports:
    $3.0 billion (c.i.f., 1991)
  commodities:
    food and beverages, textiles and textile materials, petroleum, machinery and
    equipment
  partners:
    Japan, Iran, US 7.7%, India, Taiwan, Singapore, FRG, UK
External debt:
    $5.8 billion (1990)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 8% (1991 est.); accounts for 20% of GDP
Electricity:
    1,300,000 kW capacity; 4,200 million kWh produced, 240 kWh per capita (1990)
Industries:
    processing of rubber, tea, coconuts, and other agricultural commodities;
    cement, petroleum refining, textiles, tobacco, clothing
Agriculture:
    accounts for 26% of GDP and nearly half of labor force; most important
    staple crop is paddy rice; other field crops - sugarcane, grains, pulses,
    oilseeds, roots, spices; cash crops - tea, rubber, coconuts; animal products
    - milk, eggs, hides, meat; not self-sufficient in rice production
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $1.0 billion; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1980-89), $5.1 billion; OPEC
    bilateral aid (1979-89), $169 million; Communist countries (1970-89), $369
    million
Currency:
    Sri Lankan rupee (plural - rupees); 1 Sri Lankan rupee (SLRe) = 100 cents
Exchange rates:
    Sri Lankan rupees (SLRes) per US$1 - 43.112 (March 1992), 41.372 (1991),
    40.063 (1990), 36.047 (1989), 31.807 (1988), 29.445 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Sri Lanka Communications

Railroads:
    1,948 km total (1990); all 1.868-meter broad gauge; 102 km double track; no
    electrification; government owned
Highways:
    75,749 km total (1990); 27,637 km paved (mostly bituminous treated), 32,887
    km crushed stone or gravel, 14,739 km improved earth or unimproved earth;
    several thousand km of mostly unmotorable tracks (1988 est.)
Inland waterways:
    430 km; navigable by shallow-draft craft
Pipelines:
    crude oil and petroleum products 62 km (1987)
Ports:
    Colombo, Trincomalee
Merchant marine:
    30 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 310,173 GRT/489,378 DWT; includes 13
    cargo, 6 refrigerated cargo, 5 container, 3 petroleum tanker, 3 bulk
Civil air:
    8 major transport (including 1 leased)
Airports:
    14 total, 13 usable; 12 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 1 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 7 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    good international service; 114,000 telephones (1982); broadcast stations -
    12 AM, 5 FM, 5 TV; submarine cables extend to Indonesia and Djibouti; 2
    Indian Ocean INTELSAT earth stations

:Sri Lanka Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Navy, Air Force, Police Force
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 4,709,203; 3,678,952 fit for military service; 177,554 reach
    military age (18) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $432 million, 6% of GDP (1991)
\

:Sudan Geography

Total area:
    2,505,810 km2
Land area:
    2,376,000 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly more than one-quarter the size of the US
Land boundaries:
    7,697 km total; Central African Republic 1,165 km, Chad 1,360 km, Egypt
    1,273 km, Ethiopia 2,221 km, Kenya 232 km, Libya 383 km, Uganda 435 km,
    Zaire 628 km
Coastline:
    853 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    18 nm
  Continental shelf:
    200 m (depth) or to depth of exploitation
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    administrative boundary with Kenya does not coincide with international
    boundary; administrative boundary with Egypt does not coincide with
    international boundary
Climate:
    tropical in south; arid desert in north; rainy season (April to October)
Terrain:
    generally flat, featureless plain; mountains in east and west
Natural resources:
    small reserves of crude oil, iron ore, copper, chromium ore, zinc, tungsten,
    mica, silver, crude oil
Land use:
    arable land 5%; permanent crops NEGL%; meadows and pastures 24%; forest and
    woodland 20%; other 51%; includes irrigated 1%
Environment:
    dominated by the Nile and its tributaries; dust storms; desertification
Note:
    largest country in Africa

:Sudan People

Population:
    28,305,046 (July 1992), growth rate 3.1% (1992)
Birth rate:
    44 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    13 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    NEGL migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    83 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    53 years male, 54 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    6.3 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Sudanese (singular and plural); adjective - Sudanese
Ethnic divisions:
    black 52%, Arab 39%, Beja 6%, foreigners 2%, other 1%
Religions:
    Sunni Muslim (in north) 70%, indigenous beliefs 20%, Christian (mostly in
    south and Khartoum) 5%
Languages:
    Arabic (official), Nubian, Ta Bedawie, diverse dialects of Nilotic,
    Nilo-Hamitic, and Sudanic languages, English; program of Arabization in
    process
Literacy:
    27% (male 43%, female 12%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    6,500,000; agriculture 80%, industry and commerce 10%, government 6%; labor
    shortages for almost all categories of skilled employment (1983 est.); 52%
    of population of working age (1985)
Organized labor:
    trade unions suspended following 30 June 1989 coup; now in process of being
    legalized anew

:Sudan Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of the Sudan
Type:
    military; civilian government suspended and martial law imposed after 30
    June 1989 coup
Capital:
    Khartoum
Administrative divisions:
    9 states (wilayat, singular - wilayat or wilayah*); A'ali an Nil, Al Wusta*,
    Al Istiwa'iyah*, Al Khartum, Ash Shamaliyah*, Ash Sharqiyah*, Bahr al
    Ghazal, Darfur, Kurdufan
Independence:
    1 January 1956 (from Egypt and UK; formerly Anglo-Egyptian Sudan)
Constitution:
    12 April 1973, suspended following coup of 6 April 1985; interim
    constitution of 10 October 1985 suspended following coup of 30 June 1989
Legal system:
    based on English common law and Islamic law; as of 20 January 1991, the
    Revolutionary Command Council imposed Islamic law in the six northern states
    of Al Wusta, Al Khartum, Ash Shamaliyah, Ash Sharqiyah, Darfur, and
    Kurdufan; the council is still studying criminal provisions under Islamic
    law; Islamic law will apply to all residents of the six northern states
    regardless of their religion; some separate religious courts; accepts
    compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with reservations
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 1 January (1956)
Executive branch:
    executive and legislative authority vested in a 12-member Revolutionary
    Command Council (RCC); chairman of the RCC acts as prime minister; in July
    1989, RCC appointed a predominately civilian 22-member cabinet to function
    as advisers
Legislative branch:
    appointed 300-member Transitional National Assembly; note - as announced 1
    January 1992 by RCC Chairman BASHIR, the Assembly assumes all legislative
    authority for Sudan until the eventual, unspecified resumption of national
    elections
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court, Special Revolutionary Courts
Leaders:
  Chief of State and Head of Government:
    Revolutionary Command Council Chairman and Prime Minister Lt. Gen. Umar
    Hasan Ahmad al-BASHIR (since 30 June 1989); Deputy Chairman of the Command
    Council and Deputy Prime Minister Maj. Gen. al-Zubayr Muhammad SALIH Ahmed
    (since 9 July 1989)
Political parties and leaders:
    none; banned following 30 June 1989 coup
Suffrage:
    none
Elections:
    none
Member of:
    ABEDA, ACP, AfDB, AFESD, AL, AMF, CAEU, CCC, ECA, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD,
    ICAO, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IGADD, ILO, IMF, IMO, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC,
    ISO, ITU, LORCS, NAM, OAU, OIC, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UPU,
    WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador `Abdallah Ahmad `ABDALLAH; Chancery at 2210 Massachusetts Avenue
    NW, Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 338-8565 through 8570; there is a
    Sudanese Consulate General in New York

:Sudan Government

  US:
    Ambassador James R. CHEEK (will be replaced summer of 1992); Embassy at
    Shar'ia Ali Abdul Latif, Khartoum (mailing address is P. O. Box 699,
    Khartoum, or APO AE 09829); telephone 74700 or 74611; Telex 22619
Flag:
    three equal horizontal bands of red (top), white, and black with a green
    isosceles triangle based on the hoist side

:Sudan Economy

Overview:
    Sudan is buffeted by civil war, chronic political instability, adverse
    weather, high inflation, and counterproductive economic policies. The
    economy is dominated by governmental entities that account for more than 70%
    of new investment. The private sector's main areas of activity are
    agriculture and trading, with most private industrial investment predating
    1980. The economy's base is agriculture, which employs 80% of the work
    force. Industry mainly processes agricultural items. Sluggish economic
    performance over the past decade, attributable largely to declining annual
    rainfall, has reduced levels of per capita income and consumption. A high
    foreign debt and huge arrearages continue to cause difficulties. In 1990 the
    International Monetary Fund took the unusual step of declaring Sudan
    noncooperative because of its nonpayment of arrearages to the Fund. Despite
    subsequent government efforts to implement reforms urged by the IMF and the
    World Bank, the economy remained stagnant in FY91 as entrepreneurs lack the
    incentive to take economic risks.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $12.1 billion, per capita $450; real growth rate
    0% (FY91 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    95% (FY91 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    15% (FY91 est.)
Budget:
    revenues $1.3 billion; expenditures $2.1 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $505 million (FY91 est.)
Exports:
    $325 million (f.o.b., FY91 est.)
  commodities:
    cotton 52%, sesame, gum arabic, peanuts
  partners:
    Western Europe 46%, Saudi Arabia 14%, Eastern Europe 9%, Japan 9%, US 3%
    (FY88)
Imports:
    $1.40 billion (c.i.f., FY91 est.)
  commodities:
    foodstuffs, petroleum products, manufactured goods, machinery and equipment,
    medicines and chemicals, textiles
  partners:
    Western Europe 32%, Africa and Asia 15%, US 13%, Eastern Europe 3% (FY88)
External debt:
    $14.6 billion (June 1991 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate NA%; accounts for 11% of GDP (FY89)
Electricity:
    610,000 kW capacity; 905 million kWh produced, 40 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    cotton ginning, textiles, cement, edible oils, sugar, soap distilling,
    shoes, petroleum refining
Agriculture:
    accounts for 35% of GDP and 80% of labor force; water shortages; two-thirds
    of land area suitable for raising crops and livestock; major products -
    cotton, oilseeds, sorghum, millet, wheat, gum arabic, sheep; marginally
    self-sufficient in most foods
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $1.5 billion; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $5.1 billion; OPEC
    bilateral aid (1979-89), $3.1 billion; Communist countries (1970-89), $588
    million

:Sudan Economy

Currency:
    Sudanese pound (plural - pounds); 1 Sudanese pound (#Sd) = 100 piasters
Exchange rates:
    official rate - Sudanese pounds (#Sd) per US$1 - 90.1 (March 1992), 5.4288
    (1991), 4.5004 (fixed rate since 1987), 2.8121 (1987); note - free market
    rate 83 (December 1991)
Fiscal year:
    1 July - 30 June

:Sudan Communications

Railroads:
    5,500 km total; 4,784 km 1.067-meter gauge, 716 km 1.6096-meter-gauge
    plantation line
Highways:
    20,000 km total; 1,600 km bituminous treated, 3,700 km gravel, 2,301 km
    improved earth, 12,399 km unimproved earth and track
Inland waterways:
    5,310 km navigable
Pipelines:
    refined products 815 km
Ports:
    Port Sudan, Swakin
Merchant marine:
    5 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 42,277 GRT/59,588 DWT; includes 3
    cargo, 2 roll-on/roll-off cargo
Civil air:
    18 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    72 total, 57 usable; 8 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 5 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 31 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    large, well-equipped system by African standards, but barely adequate and
    poorly maintained by modern standards; consists of microwave, cable, radio
    communications, and troposcatter; domestic satellite system with 14
    stations; broadcast stations - 11 AM, 3 TV; satellite earth stations - 1
    Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT and 1 ARABSAT

:Sudan Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Navy, Air Force, Air Defense Force
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 6,432,270; 3,949,518 fit for military service; 302,696 reach
    military age (18) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $610 million, 7.2% of GDP (1989 est.)

:Suriname Geography

Total area:
    163,270 km2
Land area:
    161,470 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than Georgia
Land boundaries:
    1,707 km total; Brazil 597 km, French Guiana 510 km, Guyana 600 km
Coastline:
    386 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    claims area in French Guiana between Litani Rivier and Riviere Marouini
    (both headwaters of the Lawa); claims area in Guyana between New (Upper
    Courantyne) and Courantyne/Kutari Rivers (all headwaters of the Courantyne)
Climate:
    tropical; moderated by trade winds
Terrain:
    mostly rolling hills; narrow coastal plain with swamps
Natural resources:
    timber, hydropower potential, fish, shrimp, bauxite, iron ore, and small
    amounts of nickel, copper, platinum, gold
Land use:
    arable land NEGL%; permanent crops NEGL%; meadows and pastures NEGL%; forest
    and woodland 97%; other 3%; includes irrigated NEGL%
Environment:
    mostly tropical rain forest

:Suriname People

Population:
    410,016 (July 1992), growth rate 1.5% (1992)
Birth rate:
    26 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    6 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    -5 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    34 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    66 years male, 71 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    2.9 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Surinamer(s); adjective - Surinamese
Ethnic divisions:
    Hindustani (East Indian) 37.0%, Creole (black and mixed) 31.0%, Javanese
    15.3%, Bush black 10.3%, Amerindian 2.6%, Chinese 1.7%, Europeans 1.0%,
    other 1.1%
Religions:
    Hindu 27.4%, Muslim 19.6%, Roman Catholic 22.8%, Protestant (predominantly
    Moravian) 25.2%, indigenous beliefs about 5%
Languages:
    Dutch (official); English widely spoken; Sranan Tongo (Surinamese, sometimes
    called Taki-Taki) is native language of Creoles and much of the younger
    population and is lingua franca among others; also Hindi Suriname Hindustani
    (a variant of Bhoqpuri) and Javanese
Literacy:
    95% (male 95%, female 95%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    104,000 (1984)
Organized labor:
    49,000 members of labor force

:Suriname Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Suriname
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Paramaribo
Administrative divisions:
    10 districts (distrikten, singular - distrikt); Brokopondo, Commewijne,
    Coronie, Marowijne, Nickerie, Para, Paramaribo, Saramacca, Sipaliwini,
    Wanica
Independence:
    25 November 1975 (from Netherlands; formerly Netherlands Guiana or Dutch
    Guiana)
Constitution:
    ratified 30 September 1987
Legal system:
    NA
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 25 November (1975)
Executive branch:
    president, vice president and prime minister, Cabinet of Ministers, Council
    of State; note - Commander in Chief of the National Army maintains
    significant power
Legislative branch:
    unicameral National Assembly (Assemblee Nationale)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State and Head of Government:
    President Ronald VENETIAAN (since 16 September 1991); Vice President and
    Prime Minister Jules AJODHIA (since 16 September 1991)
Political parties and leaders:
  traditional ethnic-based parties:
    The New Front (NF), a coalition formed of four parties following the 24
    December 1990 military coup - Progressive Reform Party (VHP), Jaggernath
    LACHMON; National Party of Suriname (NPS), Henck ARRON; Indonesian Peasants
    Party (KTPI), Willie SOEMITA; and Suriname Labor Party (SPA) Fred DERBY;
  promilitary:
    National Democratic Party (NDP), Orlando VAN AMSON; Democratic Alternative
    '91 (DA '91), Winston JESSURUN, a coalition of five parties formed in
    January 1991 - Alternative Forum (AF), Gerard BRUNINGS, Winston JESSURUN;
    Reformed Progressive Party (HPP), Panalal PARMESSAR; Party for Brotherhood
    and Unity in Politics (BEP), Cipriano ALLENDY; Pendawalima, Marsha JAMIN;
    and Independent Progressive Group, Karam RAMSUNDERSINGH;
  leftists:
    Revolutionary People's Party (RVP), Michael NAARENDORP; Progressive Workers
    and Farmers (PALU), Iwan KROLIS
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  President:
    last held 6 September 1991 (next to be held NA May 1996); results - elected
    by the National Assembly - Ronald VENETIAAN (NF) 80% (645 votes), Jules
    WIJDENBOSCH (NDP) 14% (115 votes), Hans PRADE (DA '91) 6% (49 votes)
  National Assembly:
    last held 25 May 1991 (next to be held NA May 1996); results - percent of
    vote NA; seats - (51 total) NF 30, NDP 12, DA '91 9

:Suriname Government

Member of:
    ACP, CARICOM (observer), ECLAC, FAO, GATT, G-77, IADB, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU,
    IFAD, ILO, IMF, IMO, INTERPOL, IOC, ITU, LAES, LORCS, NAM, OAS, OPANAL, UN,
    UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WHO, WIPO, WMO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Willem A. UDENHOUT; Chancery at Suite 108, 4301 Connecticut
    Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 244-7488 or 7490 through
    7492; there is a Surinamese Consulate General in Miami
  US:
    Ambassador John (Jack) P. LEONARD; Embassy at Dr. Sophie Redmonstraat 129,
    Paramaribo (mailing address is P. O. Box 1821, Paramaribo); telephone [597]
    472900, 477881, or 476459; FAX [597] 410025
Flag:
    five horizontal bands of green (top, double width), white, red (quadruple
    width), white, and green (double width); there is a large yellow
    five-pointed star centered in the red band

:Suriname Economy

Overview:
    The economy is dominated by the bauxite industry, which accounts for about
    70% of export earnings and 40% of tax revenues. The economy has been in
    trouble since the Dutch ended development aid in 1982. A drop in world
    bauxite prices which started in the late 1970s and continued until late 1986
    was followed by the outbreak of a guerrilla insurgency in the interior that
    crippled the important bauxite sector. Although the insurgency has since
    ebbed and the bauxite sector recovered, a military coup in December 1990
    reflected continued political instability and deterred investment and
    economic reform. High inflation, high unemployment, widespread black market
    activity, and hard currency shortfalls continue to mark the economy.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $1.4 billion, per capita $3,400; real growth rate
    0% (1989 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    50% (1989 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    33% (1990)
Budget:
    revenues $466 million; expenditures $716 million, including capital
    expenditures of $123 million (1989 est.)
Exports:
    $549 million (f.o.b., 1989 est.)
  commodities:
    alumina, bauxite, aluminum, rice, wood and wood products, shrimp and fish,
    bananas
  partners:
    Norway 33%, Netherlands 20%, US 15%, FRG 9%, Brazil 5%, UK 5%, Japan 3%,
    other 10%
Imports:
    $331 million (f.o.b., 1989 est.)
  commodities:
    capital equipment, petroleum, foodstuffs, cotton, consumer goods
  partners:
    US 37%, Netherlands 15%, Netherlands Antilles 11%, Trinidad and Tobago 9%,
    Brazil 5%, UK 3%, other 20%
External debt:
    $138 million (1990 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate NA; accounts for 22% of GDP
Electricity:
    458,000 kW capacity; 2,018 million kWh produced, 5,015 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    bauxite mining, alumina and aluminum production, lumbering, food processing,
    fishing
Agriculture:
    accounts for 11% of GDP; paddy rice planted on 85% of arable land and
    represents 60% of total farm output; other products - bananas, palm kernels,
    coconuts, plantains, peanuts, beef, chicken; shrimp and forestry products of
    increasing importance; self-sufficient in most foods
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-83), $2.5 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $1.5 billion
Currency:
    Surinamese guilder, gulden, or florin (plural - guilders, gulden, or
    florins); 1 Surinamese guilder, gulden, or florin (Sf.) = 100 cents
Exchange rates:
    Surinamese guilders, gulden, or florins (Sf.) per US$1 - 1.7850 (fixed rate)

:Suriname Economy

Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Suriname Communications

Railroads:
    166 km total; 86 km 1.000-meter gauge, government owned, and 80 km
    1.435-meter standard gauge; all single track
Highways:
    8,300 km total; 500 km paved; 5,400 km bauxite gravel, crushed stone, or
    improved earth; 2,400 km sand or clay
Inland waterways:
    1,200 km; most important means of transport; oceangoing vessels with drafts
    ranging up to 7 m can navigate many of the principal waterways
Ports:
    Paramaribo, Moengo
Merchant marine:
    3 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 6,472 GRT/8,914 DWT; includes 2 cargo,
    1 container
Civil air:
    1 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    46 total, 40 usable; 6 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 1 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 2 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    international facilities good; domestic microwave system; 27,500 telephones;
    broadcast stations - 5 AM, 14 FM, 6 TV, 1 shortwave; 2 Atlantic Ocean
    INTELSAT earth stations

:Suriname Defense Forces

Branches:
    National Army (including Navy which is company-size, small Air Force
    element), Civil Police, People's Militia
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 109,551; 65,250 fit for military service
Defense expenditures:
    $NA, NA% of GDP

:Svalbard Geography

Total area:
    62,049 km2
Land area:
    62,049 km2; includes Spitsbergen and Bjornoya (Bear Island)
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than West Virginia
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    3,587 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive fishing zone:
    200 nm unilaterally claimed by Norway, not recognized by Russia
  Territorial sea:
    4 nm
Disputes:
    focus of maritime boundary dispute in the Barents Sea between Norway and
    Russia
Climate:
    arctic, tempered by warm North Atlantic Current; cool summers, cold winters;
    North Atlantic Current flows along west and north coasts of Spitsbergen,
    keeping water open and navigable most of the year
Terrain:
    wild, rugged mountains; much of high land ice covered; west coast clear of
    ice about half the year; fjords along west and north coasts
Natural resources:
    coal, copper, iron ore, phosphate, zinc, wildlife, fish
Land use:
    arable land 0%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 0%; forest and
    woodland 0%; other 100%; there are no trees and the only bushes are
    crowberry and cloudberry
Environment:
    great calving glaciers descend to the sea
Note:
    located 445 km north of Norway where the Arctic Ocean, Barents Sea,
    Greenland Sea, and Norwegian Sea meet

:Svalbard People

Population:
    3,181 (July 1992), growth rate -3.9% (1992); about one-third of the
    population resides in the Norwegian areas (Longyearbyen and Svea on
    Vestspitsbergen) and two-thirds in the Russian areas (Barentsburg and
    Pyramiden on Vestspitsbergen); about 9 persons live at the Polish research
    station
Birth rate:
    NA births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    NA deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    NA migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    NA deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    NA years male, NA years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    NA children born/woman (1992)
Ethnic divisions:
    Russian 64%, Norwegian 35%, other 1% (1981)
Languages:
    Russian, Norwegian
Literacy:
    NA% (male NA%, female NA%)
Labor force:
    NA
Organized labor:
    none

:Svalbard Government

Long-form name:
    none
Type:
    territory of Norway administered by the Ministry of Industry, Oslo, through
    a governor (sysselmann) residing in Longyearbyen, Spitsbergen; by treaty (9
    February 1920) sovereignty was given to Norway
Capital:
    Longyearbyen
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    King HARALD V (since 17 January 1991)
  Head of Government:
    Governor Leif ELDRING (since NA)
Member of:
    none
Flag:
    the flag of Norway is used

:Svalbard Economy

Overview:
    Coal mining is the major economic activity on Svalbard. By treaty (9
    February 1920), the nationals of the treaty powers have equal rights to
    exploit mineral deposits, subject to Norwegian regulation. Although US, UK,
    Dutch, and Swedish coal companies have mined in the past, the only companies
    still mining are Norwegian and Russian. The settlements on Svalbard are
    essentially company towns. The Norwegian state-owned coal company employs
    nearly 60% of the Norwegian population on the island, runs many of the local
    services, and provides most of the local infrastructure. There is also some
    trapping of seal, polar bear, fox, and walrus.
Budget:
    revenues $13.3 million, expenditures $13.3 million, including capital
    expenditures of $NA (1990)
Electricity:
    21,000 kW capacity; 45 million kWh produced, 11,420 kWh per capita (1989)
Currency:
    Norwegian krone (plural - kroner); 1 Norwegian krone (NKr) = 100 ore
Exchange rates:
    Norwegian kroner (NKr) per US$1 - 6.5189 (March 1992), 6.4829 (1991), 6.2597
    (1990), 6.9045 (1989), 6.5170 (1988), 6.7375 (1987)

:Svalbard Communications

Ports:
    limited facilities - Ny-Alesund, Advent Bay
Airports:
    4 total, 4 usable; 1 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways over
    2,439 m; 1 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    5 meteorological/radio stations; local telephone service; broadcast stations
    - 1 AM, 1 (2 repeaters) FM, 1 TV; satellite communication with Norwegian
    mainland

:Svalbard Defense Forces

Note:
    demilitarized by treaty (9 February 1920)

:Swaziland Geography

Total area:
    17,360 km2
Land area:
    17,200 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than New Jersey
Land boundaries:
    535 km total; Mozambique 105 km, South Africa 430 km
Coastline:
    none - landlocked
Maritime claims:
    none - landlocked
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    varies from tropical to near temperate
Terrain:
    mostly mountains and hills; some moderately sloping plains
Natural resources:
    asbestos, coal, clay, cassiterite, hydropower, forests, small gold and
    diamond deposits, quarry stone, and talc
Land use:
    arable land 8%; permanent crops NEGL%; meadows and pastures 67%; forest and
    woodland 6%; other 19%; includes irrigated 2%
Environment:
    overgrazing; soil degradation; soil erosion
Note:
    landlocked; almost completely surrounded by South Africa

:Swaziland People

Population:
    913,008 (July 1992), growth rate 2.6% (1992)
Birth rate:
    44 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    12 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    -6 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    98 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    52 years male, 60 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    6.2 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Swazi(s); adjective - Swazi
Ethnic divisions:
    African 97%, European 3%
Religions:
    Christian 60%, indigenous beliefs 40%
Languages:
    English and siSwati (official); government business conducted in English
Literacy:
    55% (male 57%, female 54%) age 15 and over can read and write (1976)
Labor force:
    195,000; over 60,000 engaged in subsistence agriculture; about 92,000 wage
    earners (many only intermittently), with agriculture and forestry 36%,
    community and social services 20%, manufacturing 14%, construction 9%, other
    21%; 16,800 employed in South Africa mines (1990)
Organized labor:
    about 10% of wage earners

:Swaziland Government

Long-form name:
    Kingdom of Swaziland
Type:
    monarchy; independent member of Commonwealth
Capital:
    Mbabane (administrative); Lobamba (legislative)
Administrative divisions:
    4 districts; Hhohho, Lubombo, Manzini, Shiselweni
Independence:
    6 September 1968 (from UK)
Constitution:
    none; constitution of 6 September 1968 was suspended on 12 April 1973; a new
    constitution was promulgated 13 October 1978, but has not been formally
    presented to the people
Legal system:
    based on South African Roman-Dutch law in statutory courts, Swazi
    traditional law and custom in traditional courts; has not accepted
    compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
National holiday:
    Somhlolo (Independence) Day, 6 September (1968)
Executive branch:
    monarch, prime minister, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    bicameral Parliament is advisory and consists of an upper house or Senate
    and a lower house or House of Assembly
Judicial branch:
    High Court, Court of Appeal
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    King MSWATI III (since 25 April 1986)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Obed DLAMINI (since 12 July 1989)
Political parties and leaders:
    none; banned by the Constitution promulgated on 13 October 1978
Suffrage:
    none
Elections:
    indirect parliamentary election through Swaziland's Tinkhundala System
    scheduled for November 1992
Member of:
    ACP, AfDB, C, CCC, ECA, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, IDA, IFAD, IFC, ILO,
    IMF, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, ITU, LORCS, NAM, OAU, PCA, SACU, SADCC, UN,
    UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Absalom Vusani MAMBA; Chancery at 3400 International Drive NW,
    Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 362-6683
  US:
    Ambassador Stephen H. ROGERS; Embassy at Central Bank Building, Warner
    Street, Mbabane (mailing address is P. O. Box 199, Mbabane); telephone [268]
    46441 through 5; FAX [268] 45959
Flag:
    three horizontal bands of blue (top), red (triple width), and blue; the red
    band is edged in yellow; centered in the red band is a large black and white
    shield covering two spears and a staff decorated with feather tassels, all
    placed horizontally

:Swaziland Economy

Overview:
    The economy is based on subsistence agriculture, which occupies most of the
    labor force and contributes nearly 25% to GDP. Manufacturing, which includes
    a number of agroprocessing factories, accounts for another quarter of GDP.
    Mining has declined in importance in recent years; high-grade iron ore
    deposits were depleted in 1978, and health concerns cut world demand for
    asbestos. Exports of sugar and forestry products are the main earners of
    hard currency. Surrounded by South Africa, except for a short border with
    Mozambique, Swaziland is heavily dependent on South Africa, from which it
    receives 75% of its imports and to which it sends about half of its exports.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $563 million, per capita $725; real growth rate
    5.0% (1990 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    13% (1990)
Unemployment rate:
    NA%
Budget:
    revenues $335.4 million; expenditures $360.5 million, including capital
    expenditures of $NA (FY93 est.)
Exports:
    $557 million (f.o.b., 1990)
  commodities:
    soft drink concentrates, sugar, wood pulp, citrus, canned fruit
  partners:
    South Africa 50% (est.), EC, Canada
Imports:
    $632 million (f.o.b., 1990)
  commodities:
    motor vehicles, machinery, transport equipment, petroleum products,
    foodstuffs, chemicals
  partners:
    South Africa 75% (est.), Japan, Belgium, UK
External debt:
    $290 million (1990)
Industrial production:
    growth rate NA; accounts for 26% of GDP (1989)
Electricity:
    60,000 kW capacity; 155 million kWh produced, 180 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    mining (coal and asbestos), wood pulp, sugar
Agriculture:
    accounts for 23% of GDP and over 60% of labor force; mostly subsistence
    agriculture; cash crops - sugarcane, cotton, maize, tobacco, rice, citrus
    fruit, pineapples; other crops and livestock - corn, sorghum, peanuts,
    cattle, goats, sheep; not self-sufficient in grain
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $142 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $518 million
Currency:
    lilangeni (plural - emalangeni); 1 lilangeni (E) = 100 cents
Exchange rates:
    emalangeni (E) per US$1 - 2.7814 (January 1992), 2.7563 (1991), 2.5863
    (1990), 2.6166 (1989), 2.2611 (1988), 2.0350 (1987); note - the Swazi
    emalangeni is at par with the South African rand
Fiscal year:
    1 April - 31 March

:Swaziland Communications

Railroads:
    297 km (plus 71 km disused), 1.067-meter gauge, single track
Highways:
    2,853 km total; 510 km paved, 1,230 km crushed stone, gravel, or stabilized
    soil, and 1,113 km improved earth
Civil air:
    4 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    23 total, 21 usable; 1 with permanent-surfaced runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 1 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 1 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    system consists of carrier-equipped open-wire lines and low-capacity
    microwave links; 17,000 telephones; broadcast stations - 7 AM, 6 FM, 10 TV;
    1 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT earth station

:Swaziland Defense Forces

Branches:
    Umbutfo Swaziland Defense Force, Royal Swaziland Police Force
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 197,654; 114,204 fit for military service
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $11 million, about 2% of GNP (1989)

:Sweden Geography

Total area:
    449,964 km2
Land area:
    410,928 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than California
Land boundaries:
    2,205 km total; Finland 586 km, Norway 1,619 km
Coastline:
    3,218 km
Maritime claims:
  Continental shelf:
    200 m (depth) or to depth of exploitation
  Exclusive fishing zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    temperate in south with cold, cloudy winters and cool, partly cloudy
    summers; subarctic in north
Terrain:
    mostly flat or gently rolling lowlands; mountains in west
Natural resources:
    zinc, iron ore, lead, copper, silver, timber, uranium, hydropower potential
Land use:
    arable land 7%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 2%; forest and
    woodland 64%; other 27%; includes irrigated NEGL%
Environment:
    water pollution; acid rain
Note:
    strategic location along Danish Straits linking Baltic and North Seas

:Sweden People

Population:
    8,602,157 (July 1992), growth rate 0.4% (1992)
Birth rate:
    13 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    11 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    2 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    6 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    75 years male, 81 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    1.9 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Swede(s); adjective - Swedish
Ethnic divisions:
    homogeneous white population; small Lappish minority; foreign born or
    first-generation immigrants (Finns, Yugoslavs, Danes, Norwegians, Greeks,
    Turks) about 12%
Religions:
    Evangelical Lutheran 94%, Roman Catholic 1.5%, Pentecostal 1%, other 3.5%
    (1987)
Languages:
    Swedish, small Lapp- and Finnish-speaking minorities; immigrants speak
    native languages
Literacy:
    99% (male NA%, female NA%) age 15 and over can read and write (1979 est.)
Labor force:
    4,552,000 community, social and personal services 38.3%, mining and
    manufacturing 21.2%, commerce, hotels, and restaurants 14.1%, banking,
    insurance 9.0%, communications 7.2%, construction 7.0%, agriculture,
    fishing, and forestry 3.2% (1991)
Organized labor:
    80% of labor force (1990 est.)

:Sweden Government

Long-form name:
    Kingdom of Sweden
Type:
    constitutional monarchy
Capital:
    Stockholm
Administrative divisions:
    24 provinces (lan, singular and plural); Alvsborgs Lan, Blekinge Lan,
    Gavleborgs Lan, Goteborgs och Bohus Lan, Gotlands Lan, Hallands Lan,
    Jamtlands Lan, Jonkopings Lan, Kalmar Lan, Kopparbergs Lan, Kristianstads
    Lan, Kronobergs Lan, Malmohus Lan, Norrbottens Lan, Orebro Lan,
    Ostergotlands Lan, Skaraborgs Lan, Sodermanlands Lan, Stockholms Lan,
    Uppsala Lan, Varmlands Lan, Vasterbottens Lan, Vasternorrlands Lan,
    Vastmanlands Lan
Independence:
    6 June 1809, constitutional monarchy established
Constitution:
    1 January 1975
Legal system:
    civil law system influenced by customary law; accepts compulsory ICJ
    jurisdiction, with reservations
National holiday:
    Day of the Swedish Flag, 6 June
Executive branch:
    monarch, prime minister, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    unicameral parliament (Riksdag)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court (Hogsta Domstolen)
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    King CARL XVI GUSTAF (since 19 September 1973); Heir Apparent Princess
    VICTORIA Ingrid Alice Desiree, daughter of the King (born 14 July 1977)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Carl BILDT (since 3 October 1991)
Political parties and leaders:
    ruling four-party coalition consists of the Moderate Party (conservative),
    Carl BILDT; Liberal People's Party, Bengt WESTERBERG; Center Party, Olof
    JOHANSSON; and the Christian Democratic Party, Alf SVENSSON; Social
    Democratic Party, Ingvar CARLSSON; New Democracy Party, Count Ian
    WACHTMEISTER; Left Party (VP; Communist), Lars WERNER; Swedish Communist
    Party (SKP), Rune PETTERSSON; Communist Workers' Party, Rolf HAGEL; Green
    Party, no formal leader
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  Riksdag:
    last held 15 September 1991 (next to be held NA September 1994); results -
    Social Democratic Party 37.6%, Moderate Party (conservative) 21.9%, Liberal
    People's Party 9.1%, Center Party 8.5%, Christian Democrats 7.1%, New
    Democracy 6.7%, Left Party (Communist) 4.5%, Green Party 3.4%, other 1.2%;
    seats - (349 total) Social Democratic 138, Moderate Party (conservative) 80,
    Liberal People's Party 33, Center Party 31, Christian Democrats 26, New
    Democracy 25, Left Party (Communist) 16; note - the Green Party has no seats
    in the Riksdag because it received less than the required 4% of the vote
Communists:
    VP and SKP; VP, formerly the Left Party-Communists, is reported to have
    roughly 17,800 members and attracted 5.8% of the vote in the 1988 election;
    VP dropped the Communist label in 1990, but maintains a Marxist ideology

:Sweden Government

Member of:
    AfDB, AG (observer) AsDB, BIS, CCC, CE, CERN, CSCE, EBRD, ECE, EFTA, ESA,
    FAO, G-6, G-8, G-9, G-10, GATT, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, IDA,
    IEA, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INMARSAT, INTERPOL, INTELSAT, IOC, IOM
    (observer), ISO, ITU, LORCS, NAM (guest), NC, NEA, NIB, OECD, PCA, UN,
    UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNFICYP, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIFIL, UNIIMOG, UNMOGIP, UNTSO, UPU,
    WHO, WIPO, WMO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Anders THUNBORG; Chancery at Suite 1200, 600 New Hampshire Avenue
    NW, Washington, DC 20037; telephone (202) 944-5600; there are Swedish
    Consulates General in Chicago, Los Angeles, Minneapolis, and New York
  US:
    Ambassador Charles E. REDMAN; Embassy at Strandvagen 101, S-115 89
    Stockholm; telephone [46] (8) 783-5300; FAX [46] (8) 661-1964
Flag:
    blue with a yellow cross that extends to the edges of the flag; the vertical
    part of the cross is shifted to the hoist side in the style of the Dannebrog
    (Danish flag)

:Sweden Economy

Overview:
    Aided by a long period of peace and neutrality during World War I through
    World War II, Sweden has achieved an enviable standard of living under a
    mixed system of high-tech capitalism and extensive welfare benefits. It has
    essentially full employment, a modern distribution system, excellent
    internal and external communications, and a skilled labor force. Timber,
    hydropower, and iron ore constitute the resource base of an economy that is
    heavily oriented toward foreign trade. Privately owned firms account for
    about 90% of industrial output, of which the engineering sector accounts for
    50% of output and exports. In the last few years, however, this
    extraordinarily favorable picture has been clouded by inflation, growing
    absenteeism, and a gradual loss of competitiveness in international markets.
    The new center-right government, facing a sagging economic situation which
    is unlikely to improve until 1993, is pushing full steam ahead with economic
    reform proposals to end Sweden's recession and to prepare for possible EC
    membership in 1995. The free-market-oriented reforms are designed to spur
    growth, maintain price stability, lower unemployment, create a more
    efficient welfare state, and further adapt to EC standards. The measures
    include: cutting taxes, particularly the value-added tax (VAT) and levies on
    new and small business; privatization; liberalizing foreign ownership
    restrictions; and opening the welfare system to competition and private
    alternatives, which the government will still finance. Growth is expected to
    remain flat in 1992, but increase slightly in 1993, while inflation should
    remain around 3% for the next few years. On the down side, unemployment may
    climb to slightly over 4% in 1993, and the budget deficit will reach nearly
    $9 billion in 1992.
GDP:
    purchasing power equivalent - $147.6 billion, per capita $17,200; real
    growth rate -1.1% (1991)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    8.0% (1991)
Unemployment rate:
    2.7% (1991)
Budget:
    revenues $67.5 billion; expenditures $78.7 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $NA (FY92 est.)
Exports:
    $54.5 billion (f.o.b., 1991 est.)
  commodities:
    machinery, motor vehicles, paper products, pulp and wood, iron and steel
    products, chemicals, petroleum and petroleum products
  partners:
    EC, (FRG, UK, Denmark), US, Norway
Imports:
    $50.2 billion (c.i.f., 1991 est.)
  commodities:
    machinery, petroleum and petroleum products, chemicals, motor vehicles,
    foodstuffs, iron and steel, clothing
  partners:
    EC 55.3%, US 8.4% (1990)
External debt:
    $10.7 billion (November 1991)
Industrial production:
    growth rate -5.3% (1991)
Electricity:
    39,716,000 kW capacity; 142,000 million kWh produced, 16,700 kWh per capita
    (1991)

:Sweden Economy

Industries:
    iron and steel, precision equipment (bearings, radio and telephone parts,
    armaments), wood pulp and paper products, processed foods, motor vehicles
Agriculture:
    animal husbandry predominates, with milk and dairy products accounting for
    37% of farm income; main crops - grains, sugar beets, potatoes; 100%
    self-sufficient in grains and potatoes, 85% self-sufficient in sugar beets
Economic aid:
    donor - ODA and OOF commitments (1970-89), $10.3 billion
Currency:
    Swedish krona (plural - kronor); 1 Swedish krona (SKr) = 100 ore
Exchange rates:
    Swedish kronor (SKr) per US$1 - 6.0259 (March 1992), 6.0475 (1991) 5.9188
    (1990), 6.4469 (1989), 6.1272 (1988), 6.3404 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    1 July - 30 June

:Sweden Communications

Railroads:
    12,000 km total; Swedish State Railways (SJ) - 10,819 km 1.435-meter
    standard gauge, 6,955 km electrified and 1,152 km double track; 182 km
    0.891-meter gauge; 117 km rail ferry service; privately owned railways - 511
    km 1.435-meter standard gauge (332 km electrified); 371 km 0.891-meter gauge
    (all electrified)
Highways:
    97,400 km (51,899 km paved, 20,659 km gravel, 24,842 km unimproved earth)
Inland waterways:
    2,052 km navigable for small steamers and barges
Pipelines:
    natural gas 84 km
Ports:
    Gavle, Goteborg, Halmstad, Helsingborg, Kalmar, Malmo, Stockholm; numerous
    secondary and minor ports
Merchant marine:
    186 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 2,665,902 GRT/3,646,165 DWT; includes
    10 short-sea passenger, 29 cargo, 3 container, 43 roll-on/roll-off cargo, 12
    vehicle carrier, 2 railcar carrier, 33 petroleum tanker, 28 chemical tanker,
    4 specialized tanker, 1 liquefied gas, 7 combination ore/oil, 12 bulk, 1
    combination bulk, 1 refrigerated cargo
Civil air:
    115 major transports
Airports:
    254 total, 252 usable; 139 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 10 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 94 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    excellent domestic and international facilities; 8,200,000 telephones;
    mainly coaxial and multiconductor cables carry long-distance network;
    parallel microwave network carries primarily radio, TV and some telephone
    channels; automatic system; broadcast stations - 5 AM, 360 (mostly
    repeaters) FM, 880 (mostly repeaters) TV; 5 submarine coaxial cables;
    satellite earth stations - 1 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT and 1 EUTELSAT

:Sweden Defense Forces

Branches:
    Swedish Army, Swedish Navy, Swedish Air Force
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 2,129,996; 1,858,944 fit for military service; 57,492 reach
    military age (19) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $6.2 billion, about 4% of GDP (FY91)

:Switzerland Geography

Total area:
    41,290 km2
Land area:
    39,770 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly more than twice the size of New Jersey
Land boundaries:
    1,852 km total; Austria 164 km, France 573 km, Italy 740 km, Liechtenstein
    41 km, Germany 334 km
Coastline:
    none - landlocked
Maritime claims:
    none - landlocked
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    temperate, but varies with altitude; cold, cloudy, rainy/snowy winters; cool
    to warm, cloudy, humid summers with occasional showers
Terrain:
    mostly mountains (Alps in south, Jura in northwest) with a central plateau
    of rolling hills, plains, and large lakes
Natural resources:
    hydropower potential, timber, salt
Land use:
    arable land 10%; permanent crops 1%; meadows and pastures 40%; forest and
    woodland 26%; other 23%; includes irrigated 1%
Environment:
    dominated by Alps
Note:
    landlocked; crossroads of northern and southern Europe

:Switzerland People

Population:
    6,828,023 (July 1992), growth rate 0.6% (1992)
Birth rate:
    12 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    9 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    3 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    6 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    76 years male, 83 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    1.6 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Swiss (singular and plural); adjective - Swiss
Ethnic divisions:
    total population - German 65%, French 18%, Italian 10%, Romansch 1%, other
    6%; Swiss nationals - German 74%, French 20%, Italian 4%, Romansch 1%, other
    1%
Religions:
    Roman Catholic 47.6%, Protestant 44.3%, other 8.1% (1980)
Languages:
    total population - German 65%, French 18%, Italian 12%, Romansch 1%, other
    4%; Swiss nationals - German 74%, French 20%, Italian 4%, Romansch 1%, other
    1%
Literacy:
    99% (male NA%, female NA%) age 15 and over can read and write (1980 est.)
Labor force:
    3,310,000; 904,095 foreign workers, mostly Italian; services 50%, industry
    and crafts 33%, government 10%, agriculture and forestry 6%, other 1% (1989)
Organized labor:
    20% of labor force

:Switzerland Government

Long-form name:
    Swiss Confederation
Type:
    federal republic
Capital:
    Bern
Administrative divisions:
    26 cantons (cantons, singular - canton in French; cantoni, singular -
    cantone in Italian; kantone, singular - kanton in German); Aargau,
    Ausser-Rhoden, Basel-Landschaft, Basel-Stadt, Bern, Fribourg, Geneve,
    Glarus, Graubunden, Inner-Rhoden, Jura, Luzern, Neuchatel, Nidwalden,
    Obwalden, Sankt Gallen, Schaffhausen, Schwyz, Solothurn, Thurgau, Ticino,
    Uri, Valais, Vaud, Zug, Zurich
Independence:
    1 August 1291
Constitution:
    29 May 1874
Legal system:
    civil law system influenced by customary law; judicial review of legislative
    acts, except with respect to federal decrees of general obligatory
    character; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with reservations
National holiday:
    Anniversary of the Founding of the Swiss Confederation, 1 August (1291)
Executive branch:
    president, vice president, Federal Council (German - Bundesrat, French -
    Conseil Federal, Italian - Consiglio Federale)
Legislative branch:
    bicameral Federal Assembly (German - Bundesversammlung, French - Assemblee
    Federale, Italian - Assemblea Federale) consists of an upper council or
    Council of States (German - Standerat, French - Conseil des Etats, Italian -
    Consiglio degli Stati) and a lower council or National Council (German -
    Nationalrat, French - Conseil National, Italian - Consiglio Nazionale)
Judicial branch:
    Federal Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State and Head of Government:
    President Rene FELBER (1992 calendar year; presidency rotates annually);
    Vice President Adolf OGI (term runs concurrently with that of president)
Political parties and leaders:
    Free Democratic Party (FDP), Bruno HUNZIKER, president; Social Democratic
    Party (SPS), Helmut HUBACHER, chairman; Christian Democratic People's Party
    (CVP), Eva SEGMULLER-WEBER, chairman; Swiss People's Party (SVP), Hans
    UHLMANN, president; Green Party (GPS), Peter SCHMID, president; Automobile
    Party (AP), DREYER; Alliance of Independents' Party (LdU), Dr. Franz JAEGER,
    president; Swiss Democratic Party (SD), NA; Evangelical People's Party
    (EVP), Max DUNKI, president; Workers' Party (PdA; Communist), Jean
    SPIELMANN, general secretary; Ticino League, leader NA Liberal Party (LPS),
    Gilbert COUTAU, president
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  Council of States:
    last held throughout 1991 (next to be held NA 1995); results - percent of
    vote by party NA; seats - (46 total) FDP 18, CVP 16, SVP 4, SPS 3, LPS 3,
    LdU 1, Ticino League 1

:Switzerland Government

  National Council:
    last held 20 October 1991 (next to be held NA October 1995); results -
    percent of vote by party NA; seats - (200 total) FDP 44, SPS 42, CVP 37, SVP
    25, GPS 14, LPS 10, AP 8, LdU 6, SD 5, EVP 3, PdA 2, Ticino League 2, other
    2
Communists:
    4,500 members (est.)
Member of:
    AfDB, AG (observer), AsDB, BIS, CCC, CE, CERN, CSCE, EBRD, ECE, EFTA, ESA,
    FAO, G-8, G-10, GATT, IADB, IAEA, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, IEA, IFAD, ILO, IMF,
    IMO, INMARSAT, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, LORCS, NAM (guest),
    NEA, OAS (observer), OECD, PCA, UN (observer), UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO,
    UPU, WCL, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Edouard BRUNNER; Chancery at 2900 Cathedral Avenue NW,
    Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 745-7900; there are Swiss Consulates
    General in Atlanta, Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, New York, and San
    Francisco
  US:
    Ambassador Joseph B. GILDENHORN; Embassy at Jubilaeumstrasse 93, 3005 Bern;
    telephone [41] (31) 437-011; FAX [41] (31) 437-344; there is a Branch Office
    of the Embassy in Geneva and a Consulate General in Zurich
Flag:
    red square with a bold, equilateral white cross in the center that does not
    extend to the edges of the flag

:Switzerland Economy

Overview:
    Switzerland's economic success is matched in few other nations. Per capita
    output, general living standards, education and science, health care, and
    diet are unsurpassed in Europe. Economic stability helps promote the
    important banking and tourist sectors. Since World War II, Switzerland's
    economy has adjusted smoothly to the great changes in output and trade
    patterns in Europe and presumably can adjust to the challenges of the 1990s,
    particularly to the further economic integration of Western Europe and the
    amazingly rapid changes in East European political and economic prospects.
    After 8 years of growth, the economy experienced a mild recession in 1991
    because monetary policy was tightened to combat inflation and because of the
    weak international economy. In the second half of 1992, however, Switzerland
    is expected to resume growth, despite inflation and unemployment problems.
    GDP growth for 1992 may be just under 1%, inflation should drop from 5.9% to
    3.5%, and the trade deficit will continue to decline after dropping by over
    15% to $5 billion, due to increased exports to Germany. Unemployment,
    however, is forecast to rise to 1.6% in 1992, up from 1.3% in 1991 and 0.5%
    in 1990.
GDP:
    purchasing power equivalent - $147.4 billion, per capita $21,700; real
    growth rate -0.2% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    5.9% (1991)
Unemployment rate:
    1.3% (1991)
Budget:
    revenues $24.0 billion; expenditures $23.8 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $NA (1990)
Exports:
    $62.2 billion (f.o.b., 1991 est.)
  commodities:
    machinery and equipment, precision instruments, metal products, foodstuffs,
    textiles and clothing
  partners:
    Western Europe 64% (EC 56%, other 8%), US 9%, Japan 4%
Imports:
    $68.5 billion (c.i.f., 1991 est.)
  commodities:
    agricultural products, machinery and transportation equipment, chemicals,
    textiles, construction materials
  partners:
    Western Europe 78% (EC 71%, other 7%), US 6%
External debt:
    $NA
Industrial production:
    growth rate 0.4% (1991 est.)
Electricity:
    17,710,000 kW capacity; 59,070 million kWh produced, 8,930 kWh per capita
    (1991)
Industries:
    machinery, chemicals, watches, textiles, precision instruments
Agriculture:
    dairy farming predominates; less than 50% self-sufficient; food shortages -
    fish, refined sugar, fats and oils (other than butter), grains, eggs,
    fruits, vegetables, meat
Economic aid:
    donor - ODA and OOF commitments (1970-89), $3.5 billion

:Switzerland Economy

Currency:
    Swiss franc, franken, or franco (plural - francs, franken, or franchi); 1
    Swiss franc, franken, or franco (SwF) = 100 centimes, rappen, or centesimi
Exchange rates:
    Swiss francs, franken, or franchi (SwF) per US$1 - 1.4037 (January 1992),
    1.4340 (1991), 1.3892 (1990), 1.6359 (1989), 1.4633 (1988), 1.4912 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Switzerland Communications

Railroads:
    5,174 km total; 2,971 km are government owned and 2,203 km are nongovernment
    owned; the government network consists of 2,897 km 1.435-meter standard
    gauge and 74 km 1.000-meter narrow gauge track; 1,432 km double track, 99%
    electrified; the nongovernment network consists of 710 km 1.435-meter
    standard gauge, 1,418 km 1.000-meter gauge, and 75 km 0.790-meter gauge
    track, 100% electrified
Highways:
    62,145 km total (all paved), of which 18,620 km are canton and 1,057 km are
    national highways (740 km autobahn); 42,468 km are communal roads
Inland waterways:
    65 km; Rhine (Basel to Rheinfelden, Schaffhausen to Bodensee); 12 navigable
    lakes
Pipelines:
    crude oil 314 km, natural gas 1,506 km
Ports:
    Basel (river port)
Merchant marine:
    22 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 325,234 GRT/576,953 DWT; includes 5
    cargo, 2 roll-on/roll-off cargo, 3 chemical tanker, 2 specialized tanker, 9
    bulk, 1 petroleum tanker
Civil air:
    89 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    66 total, 65 usable; 42 with permanent-surface runways; 2 with runways over
    3,659 m; 5 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 18 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    excellent domestic, international, and broadcast services; 5,890,000
    telephones; extensive cable and microwave networks; broadcast stations - 7
    AM, 265 FM, 18 (1,322 repeaters) TV; communications satellite earth station
    operating in the INTELSAT (Atlantic Ocean and Indian Ocean) system

:Switzerland Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Air Force, Frontier Guards, Fortification Guards
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 1,798,632; 1,544,191 fit for military service; 43,952 reach
    military age (20) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $4.6 billion, about 2% of GDP (1990)

:Syria Geography

Total area:
    185,180 km2
Land area:
    184,050 km2 (including 1,295 km2 of Israeli-occupied territory)
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than North Dakota
Land boundaries:
    2,253 km total; Iraq 605 km, Israel 76 km, Jordan 375 km, Lebanon 375 km,
    Turkey 822 km
Coastline:
    193 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    6 nm beyond territorial sea limit
  Territorial sea:
    35 nm
Disputes:
    separated from Israel by the 1949 Armistice Line; Golan Heights is Israeli
    occupied; Hatay question with Turkey; periodic disputes with Iraq over
    Euphrates water rights; ongoing dispute over water development plans by
    Turkey for the Tigris and Euphrates Rivers
Climate:
    mostly desert; hot, dry, sunny summers (June to August) and mild, rainy
    winters (December to February) along coast
Terrain:
    primarily semiarid and desert plateau; narrow coastal plain; mountains in
    west
Natural resources:
    crude oil, phosphates, chrome and manganese ores, asphalt, iron ore, rock
    salt, marble, gypsum
Land use:
    arable land 28%; permanent crops 3%; meadows and pastures 46%; forest and
    woodland 3%; other 20%; includes irrigated 3%
Environment:
    deforestation; overgrazing; soil erosion; desertification
Note:
    there are 38 Jewish settlements in the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights

:Syria People

Population:
    13,730,436 (July 1992), growth rate 3.8% (1992); in addition, there are at
    least 14,500 Druze and 14,000 Jewish settlers in the Israeli-occupied Golan
    Heights (1992 est.)
Birth rate:
    44 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    7 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    45 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    65 years male, 67 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    6.9 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Syrian(s); adjective - Syrian
Ethnic divisions:
    Arab 90.3%; Kurds, Armenians, and other 9.7%
Religions:
    Sunni Muslim 74%, Alawite, Druze, and other Muslim sects 16%, Christian
    (various sects) 10%, tiny Jewish communities in Damascus, Al Qamishli, and
    Aleppo
Languages:
    Arabic (official), Kurdish, Armenian, Aramaic, Circassian; French widely
    understood
Literacy:
    64% (male 78%, female 51%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    2,400,000; miscellaneous and government services 36%, agriculture 32%,
    industry and construction 32%; majority unskilled; shortage of skilled labor
    (1984)
Organized labor:
    5% of labor force

:Syria Government

Long-form name:
    Syrian Arab Republic
Type:
    republic; under leftwing military regime since March 1963
Capital:
    Damascus
Administrative divisions:
    14 provinces (muhafazat, singular - muhafazah); Al Hasakah, Al Ladhiqiyah,
    Al Qunaytirah, Ar Raqqah, As Suwayda', Dar`a, Dayr az Zawr, Dimashq, Halab,
    Hamah, Hims, Idlib, Rif Dimashq, Tartus
Independence:
    17 April 1946 (from League of Nations mandate under French administration);
    formerly United Arab Republic
Constitution:
    13 March 1973
Legal system:
    based on Islamic law and civil law system; special religious courts; has not
    accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
National holiday:
    National Day, 17 April (1946)
Executive branch:
    president, three vice presidents, prime minister, three deputy prime
    ministers, Council of Ministers (cabinet)
Legislative branch:
    unicameral People's Council (Majlis al-Chaab)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Constitutional Court, High Judicial Council, Court of Cassation,
    State Security Courts
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Hafiz al-ASAD (since 22 February 1971); Vice Presidents `Abd
    al-Halim KHADDAM, Vice President Rif`at al-ASAD, and Vice President Muhammad
    Zuhayr MASHARIQA (since 11 March 1984)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Mahmud ZU`BI (since 1 November 1987); Deputy Prime Minister
    Lt. Gen. Mustafa TALAS (since 11 March 1984); Deputy Prime Minister Salim
    YASIN (since NA December 1981); Deputy Prime Minister Mahmud QADDUR (since
    NA May 1985)
Political parties and leaders:
    ruling party is the Arab Socialist Resurrectionist (Ba`th) Party; the
    Progressive National Front is dominated by Ba`thists but includes
    independents and members of the Syrian Arab Socialist Party (ASP), Arab
    Socialist Union (ASU), Syrian Communist Party (SCP), Arab Socialist Unionist
    Movement, and Democratic Socialist Union Party
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  President:
    last held 2 December 1991 (next to be held December 1998); results -
    President Hafiz al-ASAD was reelected for a fourth seven-year term with
    99.98% of the vote
  People's Council:
    last held 22-23 May 1990 (next to be held NA May 1994); results - Ba`th
    53.6%, ASU 3.2%, SCP 3.2%, Arab Socialist Unionist Movement 2.8%, ASP 2%,
    Democratic Socialist Union Party 1.6%, independents 33.6%; seats - (250
    total) Ba`th 134, ASU 8, SCP 8, Arab Socialist Unionist Movement 7, ASP 5,
    Democratic Socialist Union Party 4, independents 84; note - the People's
    Council was expanded to 250 seats total prior to the May 1990 election

:Syria Government

Communists:
    Syrian Communist Party (SCP)
Other political or pressure groups:
    non-Ba`th parties have little effective political influence; Communist party
    ineffective; conservative religious leaders; Muslim Brotherhood
Member of:
    ABEDA, AFESD, AL, AMF, CAEU, CCC, ESCWA, FAO, G-24, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
    ICC, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, ISO, ITU,
    LORCS, NAM, OAPEC, OIC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNRWA, UPU, WFTU, WHO,
    WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Walid MOUALEM; Chancery at 2215 Wyoming Avenue NW, Washington, DC
    20008; telephone (202) 232-6313
  US:
    Ambassador Christopher W. S. ROSS; Embassy at Abu Rumaneh, Al Mansur Street
    No. 2, Damascus (mailing address is P. O. Box 29, Damascus); telephone [963]
    (11) 333052 or 332557, 330416, 332814, 332315, 714108, 337178, 333232; FAX
    [963] (11) 718-687
Flag:
    three equal horizontal bands of red (top), white, and black with two small
    green five-pointed stars in a horizontal line centered in the white band;
    similar to the flag of Yemen, which has a plain white band and of Iraq,
    which has three green stars (plus an Arabic inscription) in a horizontal
    line centered in the white band; also similar to the flag of Egypt, which
    has a symbolic eagle centered in the white band

:Syria Economy

Overview:
    Syria's state-dominated Ba`thist economy has benefited from the Gulf war,
    increased oil production, good weather, and economic deregulation. Economic
    growth averaged nearly 12% annually in 1990-91, buoyed by increased oil
    production and improved agricultural performance. The Gulf war of early 1991
    provided Syria an aid windfall of several billion dollars from Arab,
    European, and Japanese donors. These inflows more than offset Damascus's
    war-related costs and will help Syria cover some of its debt arrears,
    restore suspended credit lines, and initiate selected military and civilian
    purchases. For the long run, Syria's economy is still saddled with a large
    number of poorly performing public sector firms; investment levels remain
    low; and industrial and agricultural productivity is poor. A major long-term
    concern is the additional drain of upstream Euphrates water by Turkey when
    its vast dam and irrigation projects are completed by mid-decade.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $30 billion, per capita $2,300; real growth rate
    11% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    25% (1991 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    NA%
Budget:
    revenues $5.4 billion; expenditures $7.5 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $2.9 billion (1991 est.)
Exports:
    $3.6 billion (f.o.b., 1991 est.)
  commodities:
    petroleum 40%, farm products 13%, textiles, phosphates (1989)
  partners:
    USSR and Eastern Europe 42%, EC 31%, Arab countries 17%, US/Canada 2% (1989)
Imports:
    $2.7 billion (f.o.b., 1991 est.)
  commodities:
    foodstuffs and beverages 21%, metal and metal products 16%, machinery 14%,
    textiles, petroleum products (1989)
  partners:
    EC 42%, USSR and Eastern Europe 13%, other Europe 13%, US/Canada 8%, Arab
    countries 6% (1989)
External debt:
    $5.2 billion in hard currency (1990 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 6% (1991 est.); accounts for 17% of GDP
Electricity:
    3,005,000 kW capacity; 8,800 million kWh produced, 680 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    textiles, food processing, beverages, tobacco, phosphate rock mining,
    petroleum
Agriculture:
    accounts for 27% of GDP and one-third of labor force; all major crops
    (wheat, barley, cotton, lentils, chickpeas) grown mainly on rainfed land
    causing wide swings in production; animal products - beef, lamb, eggs,
    poultry, milk; not self-sufficient in grain or livestock products
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-81), $538 million; Western (non-US)
    ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $1.23 billion; OPEC bilateral
    aid (1979-89), $12.3 billion; former Communist countries (1970-89), $3.3
    billion
Currency:
    Syrian pound (plural - pounds); 1 Syrian pound (#S) = 100 piasters

:Syria Economy

Exchange rates:
    Syrian pounds (#S) per US$1 - 22.0 (promotional rate since 1991), 11.2250
    (fixed rate 1987-90), 3.9250 (fixed rate 1976-87)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Syria Communications

Railroads:
    2,350 km total; 2,035 km standard gauge, 315 km 1.050-meter (narrow) gauge
Highways:
    28,000 km total; 22,000 km paved, 3,000 km gravel or crushed stone, 3,000 km
    improved earth
Inland waterways:
    672 km; minimal economic importance
Pipelines:
    crude oil 1,304 km, petroleum products 515 km
Ports:
    Tartus, Latakia, Baniyas
Merchant marine:
    29 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 85,417 GRT/138,078 DWT; includes 25
    cargo, 1 roll-on/roll-off cargo, 1 vehicle carrier, 2 bulk
Civil air:
    35 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    104 total, 100 usable; 24 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 21 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 3 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    fair system currently undergoing significant improvement; 512,600
    telephones; broadcast stations - 9 AM, 1 FM, 17 TV; satellite earth stations
    - 1 Indian Ocean INTELSAT and 1 Intersputnik, 1 submarine cable; coaxial
    cable and radio relay to Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon, and Turkey

:Syria Defense Forces

Branches:
    Syrian Arab Army, Syrian Arab Navy, Syrian Arab Air Force, Syrian Arab Air
    Defense Forces, Police and Security Force
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 3,012,671; 1,691,660 fit for military service; 145,976 reach
    military age (19) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $2.5 billion, 8% of GDP (1989)

:Taiwan Geography

Total area:
    35,980 km2
Land area:
    32,260 km2; includes the Pescadores, Matsu, and Quemoy
Comparative area:
    slightly less than three times the size of Connecticut
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    1,448 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    involved in complex dispute over the Spratly Islands with China, Malaysia,
    Philippines, Vietnam, and possibly Brunei; Paracel Islands occupied by
    China, but claimed by Vietnam and Taiwan; Japanese-administered
    Senkaku-shoto (Senkaku Islands/Diaoyu Tai) claimed by China and Taiwan
Climate:
    tropical; marine; rainy season during southwest monsoon (June to August);
    cloudiness is persistent and extensive all year
Terrain:
    eastern two-thirds mostly rugged mountains; flat to gently rolling plains in
    west
Natural resources:
    small deposits of coal, natural gas, limestone, marble, and asbestos
Land use:
    arable land 24%; permanent crops 1%; meadows and pastures 5%; forest and
    woodland 55%; other 15%; irrigated 14%
Environment:
    subject to earthquakes and typhoons

:Taiwan People

Population:
    20,878,556 (July 1992), growth rate 1.0% (1992)
Birth rate:
    16 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    5 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    NEGL migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    6 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    72 years male, 78 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    1.8 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Chinese (singular and plural); adjective - Chinese
Ethnic divisions:
    Taiwanese 84%, mainland Chinese 14%, aborigine 2%
Religions:
    mixture of Buddhist, Confucian, and Taoist 93%, Christian 4.5%, other 2.5%
Languages:
    Mandarin Chinese (official); Taiwanese (Miu) and Hakka dialects also used
Literacy:
    91.2% (male NA%, female NA%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990)
Labor force:
    7,900,000; industry and commerce 53%, services 22%, agriculture 15.6%, civil
    administration 7% (1989)
Organized labor:
    2,728,000 or about 44% (1991)

:Taiwan Government

Long-form name:
    none
Type:
    multiparty democratic regime; opposition political parties legalized in
    March, 1989
Capital:
    Taipei
Administrative divisions:
    the authorities in Taipei claim to be the government of all China; in
    keeping with that claim, the central administrative divisions include 2
    provinces (sheng, singular and plural) and 2 municipalities* (shih, singular
    and plural) - Fu-chien (some 20 offshore islands of Fujian Province
    including Quemoy and Matsu), Kao-hsiung*, T'ai-pei*, and Taiwan (the island
    of Taiwan and the Pescadores islands); the more commonly referenced
    administrative divisions are those of Taiwan Province - 16 counties (hsien,
    singular and plural), 5 municipalities* (shih, singular and plural), and 2
    special municipalities** (chuan-shih, singular and plural); Chang-hua,
    Chia-i, Chia-i*, Chi-lung*, Hsin-chu, Hsin-chu*, Hua-lien, I-lan,
    Kao-hsiung, Kao-hsiung**, Miao-li, Nan-t'ou, P'eng-hu, P'ing-tung,
    T'ai-chung, T'ai-chung*, T'ai-nan, T'ai-nan*, T'ai-pei, T'ai-pei**,
    T'ai-tung, T'ao-yuan, and Yun-lin; the provincial capital is at
    Chung-hsing-hsin-ts'un; note - Taiwan uses the Wade-Giles system for
    romanization
Constitution:
    25 December 1947, presently undergoing revision
Legal system:
    based on civil law system; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with
    reservations
National holiday:
    National Day (Anniversary of the Revolution), 10 October (1911)
Executive branch:
    president, vice president, premier of the Executive Yuan, vice premier of
    the Executive Yuan, Executive Yuan
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Legislative Yuan, unicameral National Assembly
Judicial branch:
    Judicial Yuan
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President LI Teng-hui (since 13 January 1988); Vice President LI Yuan-zu
    (since 20 May 1990)
  Head of Government:
    Premier (President of the Executive Yuan) HAO Po-ts'un (since 2 May 1990);
    Vice Premier (Vice President of the Executive Yuan) SHIH Ch'i-yang (since NA
    July 1988)
Political parties and leaders:
    Kuomintang (Nationalist Party), LI Teng-hui, chairman; Democratic Socialist
    Party and Young China Party controlled by Kuomintang; Democratic Progressive
    Party (DPP); Labor Party; 27 other minor parties
Suffrage:
    universal at age 20
Elections:
  President:
    last held 21 March 1990 (next to be held NA March 1996); results - President
    LI Teng-hui was reelected by the National Assembly
  Vice President:
    last held 21 March 1990 (next to be held NA March 1996); results - LI
    Yuan-zu was elected by the National Assembly

:Taiwan Government

  Legislative Yuan:
    last held 2 December 1989 (next to be held NA December 1992); results - KMT
    65%, DPP 33%, independents 2%; seats - (304 total, 102 elected) KMT 78, DPP
    21, independents 3
Elections:
  National Assembly:
    first National Assembly elected in November 1947 with a supplementary
    election in December 1986; second National Assembly elected in December 1991
Member of:
    expelled from UN General Assembly and Security Council on 25 October 1971
    and withdrew on same date from other charter-designated subsidiary organs;
    expelled from IMF/World Bank group April/May 1980; seeking to join GATT;
    attempting to retain membership in INTELSAT; suspended from IAEA in 1972,
    but still allows IAEA controls over extensive atomic development; APEC,
    AsDB, ICC, ICFTU, IOC
Diplomatic representation:
    none; unofficial commercial and cultural relations with the people of the US
    are maintained through a private instrumentality, the Coordination Council
    for North American Affairs (CCNAA) with headquarters in Taipei and field
    offices in Washington and 10 other US cities with all addresses and
    telephone numbers NA
  US:
    unofficial commercial and cultural relations with the people of Taiwan are
    maintained through a private institution, the American Institute in Taiwan
    (AIT), which has offices in Taipei at #7, Lane 134, Hsiu Yi Road, Section 3,
    telephone [886] (2) 709-2000, and in Kao-hsiung at #2 Chung Cheng 3d Road,
    telephone [886] (7) 224-0154 through 0157, and the American Trade Center at
    Room 3207 International Trade Building, Taipei World Trade Center, 333
    Keelung Road Section 1, Taipei 10548, telephone [886] (2) 720-1550
Flag:
    red with a dark blue rectangle in the upper hoist-side corner bearing a
    white sun with 12 triangular rays

:Taiwan Economy

Overview:
    Taiwan has a dynamic capitalist economy with considerable government
    guidance of investment and foreign trade and partial government ownership of
    some large banks and industrial firms. Real growth in GNP has averaged about
    9% a year during the past three decades. Export growth has been even faster
    and has provided the impetus for industrialization. Agriculture contributes
    about 4% to GNP, down from 35% in 1952. Taiwan currently ranks as number 13
    among major trading countries. Traditional labor-intensive industries are
    steadily being replaced with more capital- and technology-intensive
    industries. Taiwan has become a major investor in China, Thailand,
    Indonesia, the Philippines, and Malaysia. The tightening of labor markets
    has led to an influx of foreign workers, both legal and illegal.
GNP:
    purchasing power equivalent - $150.8 billion, per capita $7,380; real growth
    rate 5.2% (1990)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    4.1% (1990); 3.8% (1991 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    1.7% (1990); 1.5% (1991 est.)
Budget:
    revenues $30.3 billion; expenditures $30.1 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $NA (FY91 est.)
Exports:
    $67.2 billion (f.o.b., 1990)
  commodities:
    electrical machinery 18.2%, textiles 15.6%, general machinery and equipment
    14.8%, basic metals and metal products 7.8%, foodstuffs 1.7%, plywood and
    wood products 1.6% (1989)
  partners:
    US 36.2%, Japan 13.7% (1989)
Imports:
    $54.7 billion (c.i.f., 1990)
  commodities:
    machinery and equipment 15.3%, basic metals 13.0%, chemical and chemical
    products 11.1%, crude oil 5%, foodstuffs 2.2% (1989)
  partners:
    Japan 31%, US 23%, FRG 5% (1989)
External debt:
    $1.1 billion (December 1990 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 6.5% (1991 est.)
Electricity:
    17,000,000 kW capacity; 76,900 million kWh produced, 3,722 kWh per capita
    (1991)
Industries:
    electronics, textiles, chemicals, clothing, food processing, plywood, sugar
    milling, cement, shipbuilding, petroleum
Agriculture:
    accounts for 4% of GNP and 16% of labor force (includes part-time farmers);
    heavily subsidized sector; major crops - vegetables, rice, fruit, tea;
    livestock - hogs, poultry, beef, milk, cattle; not self-sufficient in wheat,
    soybeans, corn; fish catch increasing, 1.4 million metric tons (1988)
Economic aid:
    US, including Ex-Im (FY46-82), $4.6 billion; Western (non-US) countries, ODA
    and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $500 million
Currency:
    New Taiwan dollar (plural - dollars); 1 New Taiwan dollar (NT$) = 100 cents

:Taiwan Economy

Exchange rates:
    New Taiwan dollars per US$1 - 25.000 (February 1992), 25.748 (1991), 27.108
    (1990), 26.407 (1989) 28.589 (1988), 31.845 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    1 July - 30 June

:Taiwan Communications

Railroads:
    about 4,600 km total track with 1,075 km common carrier lines and 3,525 km
    industrial lines; common carrier lines consist of the 1.067-meter gauge 708
    km West Line and the 367 km East Line; a 98.25 km South Link Line connection
    was completed in late 1991; common carrier lines owned by the government and
    operated by the Railway Administration under Ministry of Communications;
    industrial lines owned and operated by government enterprises
Highways:
    20,041 km total; 17,095 km bituminous or concrete pavement, 2,371 km crushed
    stone or gravel, 575 km graded earth
Pipelines:
    petroleum products 615 km, natural gas 97 km
Ports:
    Kao-hsiung, Chi-lung (Keelung), Hua-lien, Su-ao, T'ai-tung
Merchant marine:
    213 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 6,491,539 GRT/9,082,118 DWT; includes
    1 passenger, 42 cargo, 15 refrigerated cargo, 73 container, 17 petroleum
    tanker, 3 combination ore/oil, 1 specialized tanker, 58 bulk, 1
    roll-on/roll-off, 2 combination bulk
Airports:
    40 total, 39 usable; 36 with permanent-surface runways; 3 with runways over
    3,659 m; 16 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 8 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    best developed system in Asia outside of Japan; 7,800,000 telephones;
    extensive microwave transmission links on east and west coasts; broadcast
    stations - 91 AM, 23 FM, 15 TV (13 repeaters); 8,620,000 radios; 6,386,000
    TVs (5,680,000 color, 706,000 monochrome); satellite earth stations - 1
    Pacific Ocean INTELSAT and 1 Indian Ocean INTELSAT; submarine cable links to
    Japan (Okinawa), the Philippines, Guam, Singapore, Hong Kong, Indonesia,
    Australia, Middle East, and Western Europe

:Taiwan Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Navy (including Marines), Air Force, Taiwan General Garrison
    Headquarters, Ministry of National Defense
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 5,982,717; 4,652,586 fit for military service; about 180,706
    currently reach military age (19) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $9.16 billion, 4.5% of GNP (FY92)

:Tajikistan Geography

Total area:
    143,100 km2
Land area:
    142,700 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than Wisconsin
Land boundaries:
    3,651 km total; Afghanistan 1,206 km, China 414 km, Kyrgyzstan 870 km,
    Uzbekistan 1,161 km
Coastline:
    none - landlocked
Maritime claims:
    none - landlocked
Disputes:
    boundary with China under dispute
Climate:
    midlatitude semiarid to polar in Pamir Mountains
Terrain:
    Pamir and Alay Mountains dominate landscape; western Fergana Valley in
    north, Kafirnigan and Vakhsh Valleys in southeast
Natural resources:
    significant hydropower potential, petroleum, uranium, mercury, small
    production of petroleum, brown coal, lead, zinc, antimony, tungsten
Land use:
    6% arable land; NA% permanent crops; NA% meadows and pastures; NA% forest
    and woodland; NA% other; includes NA% irrigated
Environment:
    NA
Note:
    landlocked

:Tajikistan People

Population:
    5,680,242 (July 1992), growth rate 3.0% (1992)
Birth rate:
    40 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    8 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    -1 migrant/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    74 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    64 years male, 70 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    5.3 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Tajik(s); adjective - Tajik
Ethnic divisions:
    Tajik 62%, Uzbek 24%, Russian 8%, Tatar 2%, other 4%
Religions:
    Sunni Muslim approximately 80%, Shi`a Muslim 5%
Languages:
    Tajik (official) NA%
Literacy:
    NA% (male NA%, female NA%) age 15 and over can read and write
Labor force:
    1,938,000; agriculture and forestry 43%, industry and construction 22%,
    other 35% (1990)
Organized labor:
    NA

:Tajikistan Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Tajikistan
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Dushanbe
Administrative divisions:
    3 oblasts (oblastey, singular - oblast') and one autonomous oblast*;
    Gorno-Badakhshan*; Kurgan-Tyube, Kulyab, Leninabad (Khudzhand); note - the
    rayons around Dushanbe are under direct republic jurisdiction; an oblast
    usually has the same name as its administrative center (exceptions have the
    administrative center name following in parentheses)
Independence:
    9 September 1991 (from Soviet Union); formerly Tajikistan Soviet Socialist
    Republic
Constitution:
    adopted NA April 1978
Legal system:
    based on civil law system; no judicial review of legislative acts
National holiday:
    NA
Executive branch:
    president, prime minister
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Supreme Soviet
Judicial branch:
    NA
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Rakhman NABIYEV (since NA September 1991); note - a government of
    National Reconciliation was formed in May 1992; NABIYEV is titular head
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Akbar MIRZOYEV (since 10 January 1992); First Deputy Prime
    Minister Davlat USMON
Political parties and leaders:
    Tajik Democratic Party, Shodmon YUSUF, chairman; Rastokhez (Rebirth), Tohir
    ABDULJABAR, chairman; Islamic Revival Party, Sharif HIMMOT-ZODA, chairman
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  President:
    last held 27 October 1991 (next to be held NA); results - Rakhman NABIYEV,
    Communist Party 60%; Daolat KHUDONAZAROV, Democratic Party, Islamic Rebirth
    Party and Rastokhoz Party 30%
  Supreme Soviet:
    last held 25 February 1990 (next to be held NA); results - Communist Party
    99%, other 1%; seats - (230 total) Communist Party 227, other 3
Communists:
    NA
Other political or pressure groups:
    Kazi Kolon, Akbar TURAJON-SODA, Muslim leader
Member of:
    CSCE, IMF, UN
Diplomatic representation:
    NA
  US:
    Ambassador-designate Stan ESCUDERO; Embassy at Interim Chancery, #39 Ainii
    Street; Residences: Oktyabrskaya Hotel, Dushanbe (mailing address is APO AE
    09862); telephone [8] (011) 7-3772-24-32-23

:Tajikistan Government

Flag:
    NA; still in the process of designing one

:Tajikistan Economy

Overview:
    Tajikistan has had the lowest standard of living and now faces the bleakest
    economic prospects of the 15 former Soviet republics. Agriculture is the
    main economic sector, normally accounting for 38% of employment and
    featuring cotton and fruits. Industry is sparse, bright spots including
    electric power and aluminum production based on the country's sizable
    hydropower resources and a surprising specialty in the production of
    metal-cutting machine tools. In 1991 and early 1992, disruptions in food
    supplies from the outside have severely strained the availability of food
    throughout the republic. The combination of the poor food supply, the
    general disruption of industrial links to suppliers and markets, and
    political instability have meant that the republic's leadership could make
    little progress in economic reform in 1991 and early 1992.
GDP:
    $NA, per capita $NA; real growth rate -9% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    84% (1991)
Unemployment rate:
    25% (1991 est.)
Budget:
    $NA
Exports:
    $706 million (1990)
  commodities:
    aluminum, cotton, fruits, vegetable oil, textiles
  partners:
    Russia, Kazakhstan, Ukraine, Uzbekistan
Imports:
    $1.3 billion (1990)
  commodities:
    chemicals, machinery and transport equipment, textiles, foodstuffs
  partners:
    NA
External debt:
    $650 million (end of 1991 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate -2.0% (1991)
Electricity:
    4,575,000 kW capacity; 17,500 million kWh produced, 3,384 kWh per capita
    (1991)
Industries:
    aluminum, zinc, lead, chemicals and fertilizers, cement, vegetable oil,
    metal-cutting machine tools, refrigerators and freezers
Agriculture:
    cotton, grain, fruits, grapes, vegetables; cattle, pigs, sheep and goats,
    yaks
Illicit drugs:
    illicit producers of cannabis and opium; mostly for domestic consumption;
    status of government eradication programs unknown; used as transshipment
    points for illicit drugs to Western Europe
Economic aid:
    NA
Currency:
    as of May 1992, retaining ruble as currency
Exchange rates:
    NA
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Tajikistan Communications

Railroads:
    480 km all 1.520-meter (broad) gauge (includes NA km electrified); does not
    include industrial lines (1990); 258 km between Dushanbe (Tajikistan) and
    Termez (Uzbekistan), connects with the railroad system of the other
    republics of the former Soviet Union at Tashkent in Uzbekistan
Highways:
    29,900 km total (1990); 24,400 km hard surfaced, 8,500 km earth
Inland waterways:
    NA km perennially navigable
Pipelines:
    NA
Civil air:
    NA
Airports:
    NA
Telecommunications:
    poorly developed; telephone density NA; linked by landline or microwave with
    other CIS member states and by leased connections via the Moscow
    international gateway switch to other countries; satellite earth stations -
    Orbita and INTELSAT (TV receive only)

:Tajikistan Defense Forces

Branches:
    Republic Security Forces (internal and border troops), National Guard; CIS
    Forces (Ground, Air, and Air Defense)
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, NA; NA fit for military service; NA reach military age (18)
    annually
Defense expenditures:
    $NA, NA% of GDP

:Tanzania Geography

Total area:
    945,090 km2
Land area:
    886,040 km2; includes the islands of Mafia, Pemba, and Zanzibar
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than twice the size of California
Land boundaries:
    3,402 km total; Burundi 451 km, Kenya 769 km, Malawi 475 km, Mozambique 756
    km, Rwanda 217 km, Uganda 396 km, Zambia 338 km
Coastline:
    1,424 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    boundary dispute with Malawi in Lake Nyasa; Tanzania-Zaire-Zambia tripoint
    in Lake Tanganyika may no longer be indefinite since it is reported that the
    indefinite section of the Zaire-Zambia boundary has been settled
Climate:
    varies from tropical along coast to temperate in highlands
Terrain:
    plains along coast; central plateau; highlands in north, south
Natural resources:
    hydropower potential, tin, phosphates, iron ore, coal, diamonds, gemstones,
    gold, natural gas, nickel
Land use:
    arable land 5%; permanent crops 1%; meadows and pastures 40%; forest and
    woodland 47%; other 7%; includes irrigated NEGL%
Environment:
    lack of water and tsetse fly limit agriculture; recent droughts affected
    marginal agriculture; Kilimanjaro is highest point in Africa

:Tanzania People

Population:
    27,791,552 (July 1992), growth rate 3.4% (1992)
Birth rate:
    49 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    15 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    -1 migrant/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    103 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    50 years male, 55 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    7.0 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Tanzanian(s); adjective - Tanzanian
Ethnic divisions:
    mainland - native African consisting of well over 100 tribes 99%; Asian,
    European, and Arab 1%
Religions:
    mainland - Christian 33%, Muslim 33%, indigenous beliefs 33%; Zanzibar -
    almost all Muslim
Languages:
    Swahili and English (official); English primary language of commerce,
    administration, and higher education; Swahili widely understood and
    generally used for communication between ethnic groups; first language of
    most people is one of the local languages; primary education is generally in
    Swahili
Literacy:
    46% (male 62%, female 31%) age 15 and over can read and write (1978)
Labor force:
    732,200 wage earners; 90% agriculture, 10% industry and commerce (1986 est.)
Organized labor:
    15% of labor force

:Tanzania Government

Long-form name:
    United Republic of Tanzania
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Dar es Salaam; some government offices have been transferred to Dodoma,
    which is planned as the new national capital by the end of the 1990s
Administrative divisions:
    25 regions; Arusha, Dar es Salaam, Dodoma, Iringa, Kigoma, Kilimanjaro,
    Lindi, Mara, Mbeya, Morogoro, Mtwara, Mwanza, Pemba North, Pemba South,
    Pwani, Rukwa, Ruvuma, Shinyanga, Singida, Tabora, Tanga, Zanzibar
    Central/South, Zanzibar North, Zanzibar Urban/West, Ziwa Magharibi
Independence:
    Tanganyika became independent 9 December 1961 (from UN trusteeship under
    British administration); Zanzibar became independent 19 December 1963 (from
    UK); Tanganyika united with Zanzibar 26 April 1964 to form the United
    Republic of Tanganyika and Zanzibar; renamed United Republic of Tanzania 29
    October 1964
Constitution:
    15 March 1984 (Zanzibar has its own Constitution but remains subject to
    provisions of the union Constitution)
Legal system:
    based on English common law; judicial review of legislative acts limited to
    matters of interpretation; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
National holiday:
    Union Day, 26 April (1964)
Executive branch:
    president, first vice president and prime minister of the union, second vice
    president and president of Zanzibar, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    unicameral National Assembly (Bunge)
Judicial branch:
    Court of Appeal, High Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Ali Hassan MWINYI (since 5 November 1985); First Vice President
    John MALECELA (since 9 November 1990); Second Vice President Salmin AMOUR
    (since 9 November 1990)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister John MALECELA (since 9 November 1990)
Political parties and leaders:
    only party - Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM or Revolutionary Party), Ali Hassan
    MWINYI, party chairman
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  President:
    last held 28 October 1990 (next to be held NA October 1995); results - Ali
    Hassan MWINYI was elected without opposition
  National Assembly:
    last held 28 October 1990 (next to be held NA October 1995); results - CCM
    is the only party; seats - (241 total, 168 elected) CCM 168
Member of:
    ACP, AfDB, C, CCC, EADB, ECA, FAO, FLS, G-6, G-77, GATT, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
    IDA, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, ISO, ITU, LORCS,
    NAM, OAU, SADCC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WHO, WIPO, WMO,
    WTO

:Tanzania Government

Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador-designate Charles Musama NYIRABU; Chancery at 2139 R Street NW,
    Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 939-6125
  US:
    Ambassador Edmund DE JARNETTE, Jr.; Embassy at 36 Laibon Road (off Bagamoyo
    Road), Dar es Salaam (mailing address is P. O. Box 9123, Dar es Salaam);
    telephone [255] (51) 66010/13; FAX [255] (51)66701
Flag:
    divided diagonally by a yellow-edged black band from the lower hoist-side
    corner; the upper triangle (hoist side) is green and the lower triangle is
    blue

:Tanzania Economy

Overview:
    Tanzania is one of the poorest countries in the world. The economy is
    heavily dependent on agriculture, which accounts for about 47% of GDP,
    provides 85% of exports, and employs 90% of the work force. Industry
    accounts for 8% of GDP and is mainly limited to processing agricultural
    products and light consumer goods. The economic recovery program announced
    in mid-1986 has generated notable increases in agricultural production and
    financial support for the program by bilateral donors. The World Bank, the
    International Monetary Fund, and bilateral donors have provided funds to
    rehabilitate Tanzania's deteriorated economic infrastructure. Growth in 1991
    was featured by a pickup in industrial production and a substantial increase
    in output of minerals led by gold.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $6.9 billion, per capita $260 (1989 est.); real
    growth rate 4.5% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    16.5% (1991 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    NA%
Budget:
    revenues $495 million; expenditures $631 million, including capital
    expenditures of $118 million (FY90)
Exports:
    $478 million (f.o.b., FY91 est.)
  commodities:
    coffee, cotton, sisal, tea, cashew nuts, meat, tobacco, diamonds, gold,
    coconut products, pyrethrum, cloves (Zanzibar)
  partners:
    FRG, UK, Japan, Netherlands, Kenya, Hong Kong, US
Imports:
    $1.5 billion (c.i.f., FY91 est.)
  commodities:
    manufactured goods, machinery and transportation equipment, cotton piece
    goods, crude oil, foodstuffs
  partners:
    FRG, UK, US, Japan, Italy, Denmark
External debt:
    $5.2 billion (December 1991 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 4.2% (1988); accounts for 8% of GDP
Electricity:
    405,000 kW capacity; 905 million kWh produced, 35 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    primarily agricultural processing (sugar, beer, cigarettes, sisal twine),
    diamond and gold mining, oil refinery, shoes, cement, textiles, wood
    products, fertilizer
Agriculture:
    accounts for over 45% of GDP; topography and climatic conditions limit
    cultivated crops to only 5% of land area; cash crops - coffee, sisal, tea,
    cotton, pyrethrum (insecticide made from chrysanthemums), cashews, tobacco,
    cloves (Zanzibar); food crops - corn, wheat, cassava, bananas, fruits, and
    vegetables; small numbers of cattle, sheep, and goats; not self-sufficient
    in food grain production
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $400 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $9.8 billion; OPEC
    bilateral aid (1979-89), $44 million; Communist countries (1970-89), $614
    million

:Tanzania Economy

Currency:
    Tanzanian shilling (plural - shillings); 1 Tanzanian shilling (TSh) = 100
    cents
Exchange rates:
    Tanzanian shillings (TSh) per US$1 - 236.01 (February (1992), 219.16 (1991),
    195.06 (1990), 143.38 (1989), 99.29 (1988), 64.26 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    1 July-30 June

:Tanzania Communications

Railroads:
    3,555 km total; 960 km 1.067-meter gauge; 2,595 km 1.000-meter gauge, 6.4 km
    double track, 962 km Tazara Railroad 1.067-meter gauge; 115 km 1.000-meter
    gauge planned by end of decade
Highways:
    total 81,900 km, 3,600 km paved; 5,600 km gravel or crushed stone; remainder
    improved and unimproved earth
Inland waterways:
    Lake Tanganyika, Lake Victoria, Lake Nyasa
Pipelines:
    crude oil 982 km
Ports:
    Dar es Salaam, Mtwara, Tanga, and Zanzibar are ocean ports; Mwanza on Lake
    Victoria and Kigoma on Lake Tanganyika are inland ports
Merchant marine:
    6 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 19,185 GRT/22,916 DWT; includes 2
    passenger-cargo, 2 cargo, 1 roll-on/roll-off cargo, 1 petroleum tanker
Civil air:
    8 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    104 total, 94 usable; 12 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 3 with runways 2,440-3, 659 m; 43 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    fair system operating below capacity; open wire, radio relay, and
    troposcatter; 103,800 telephones; broadcast stations - 12 AM, 4 FM, 2 TV; 1
    Indian Ocean and 1 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT earth station

:Tanzania Defense Forces

Branches:
    Tanzanian People's Defense Force (TPDF; including Army, Navy, and Air
    Force); paramilitary Police Field Force Unit; Militia
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 5,747,542; 3,319,116 fit for military service
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $119 million, about 2% of GDP (FY89 budget)

:Thailand Geography

Total area:
    514,000 km2
Land area:
    511,770 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly more than twice the size of Wyoming
Land boundaries:
    4,863 km total; Burma 1,800 km, Cambodia 803 km, Laos 1,754 km, Malaysia 506
    km
Coastline:
    3,219 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    boundary dispute with Laos; unresolved maritime boundary with Vietnam
Climate:
    tropical; rainy, warm, cloudy southwest monsoon (mid-May to September); dry,
    cool northeast monsoon (November to mid-March); southern isthmus always hot
    and humid
Terrain:
    central plain; eastern plateau (Khorat); mountains elsewhere
Natural resources:
    tin, rubber, natural gas, tungsten, tantalum, timber, lead, fish, gypsum,
    lignite, fluorite
Land use:
    arable land 34%; permanent crops 4%; meadows and pastures 1%; forest and
    woodland 30%; other 31%; includes irrigated 7%
Environment:
    air and water pollution; land subsidence in Bangkok area
Note:
    controls only land route from Asia to Malaysia and Singapore

:Thailand People

Population:
    57,624,180 (July 1992), growth rate 1.4% (1992)
Birth rate:
    20 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    6 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    35 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    67 years male, 71 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    2.2 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Thai (singular and plural); adjective - Thai
Ethnic divisions:
    Thai 75%, Chinese 14%, other 11%
Religions:
    Buddhism 95%, Muslim 3.8%, Christianity 0.5%, Hinduism 0.1%, other 0.6%
    (1991)
Languages:
    Thai; English is the secondary language of the elite; ethnic and regional
    dialects
Literacy:
    93% (male 96%, female 90%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    30,870,000; agriculture 62%, industry 13%, commerce 11%, services (including
    government) 14% (1989 est.)
Organized labor:
    309,000 union members (1989)

:Thailand Government

Long-form name:
    Kingdom of Thailand
Type:
    constitutional monarchy
Capital:
    Bangkok
Administrative divisions:
    72 provinces (changwat, singular and plural); Ang Thong, Buriram,
    Chachoengsao, Chai Nat, Chaiyaphum, Chanthaburi, Chiang Mai, Chiang Rai,
    Chon Buri, Chumphon, Kalasin, Kamphaeng Phet, Kanchanaburi, Khon Kaen,
    Krabi, Krung Thep Mahanakhon, Lampang, Lamphun, Loei, Lop Buri, Mae Hong
    Son, Maha Sarakham, Nakhon Nayok, Nakhon Pathom, Nakhon Phanom, Nakhon
    Ratchasima, Nakhon Sawan, Nakhon Si Thammarat, Nan, Narathiwat, Nong Khai,
    Nonthaburi, Pathum Thani, Pattani, Phangnga, Phatthalung, Phayao,
    Phetchabun, Phetchaburi, Phichit, Phitsanulok, Phra Nakhon Si Ayutthaya,
    Phrae, Phuket, Prachin Buri, Prachuap Khiri Khan, Ranong, Ratchaburi,
    Rayong, Roi Et, Sakon Nakhon, Samut Prakan, Samut Sakhon, Samut Songkhram,
    Sara Buri, Satun, Sing Buri, Sisaket, Songkhla, Sukhothai, Suphan Buri,
    Surat Thani, Surin, Tak, Trang, Trat, Ubon Ratchathani, Udon Thani, Uthai
    Thani, Uttaradit, Yala, Yasothon
Independence:
    1238 (traditional founding date); never colonized
Constitution:
    22 December 1978; new constitution approved 7 December 1991
Legal system:
    based on civil law system, with influences of common law; has not accepted
    compulsory ICJ jurisdiction; martial law in effect since 23 February 1991
    military coup
National holiday:
    Birthday of His Majesty the King, 5 December (1927)
Executive branch:
    monarch, interim prime minister, three interim deputy prime ministers,
    interim Council of Ministers (cabinet), Privy Council; following the
    military coup of 23 February 1991 a National Peace-Keeping Council was set
    up
Legislative branch:
    bicameral National Assembly (Rathasatha) consists of an upper house or
    Senate (Vuthisatha) and a lower house or House of Representatives
    (Saphaphoothan-Rajsadhorn)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court (Sarndika)
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    King PHUMIPHON Adunlayadet (since 9 June 1946); Heir Apparent Crown Prince
    WACHIRALONGKON (born 28 July 1952)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Anan PANYARACHUN (since 10 June 1992)
Political parties and leaders:
    Justice Unity Party (Samakki Tham); Chart Thai Party; Solidarity Party; Thai
    Citizens Party (TCP, Prachakorn Thai); Social Action Party (SAP); Democrat
    Party (DP); Force of Truth Party (Palang Dharma); New Aspiration Party;
    Rassadorn Party; Muanchon Party; Puangchon Chothai Party
Suffrage:
    universal at age 21

:Thailand Government

Elections:
  House of Representatives:
    last held 22 March 1992 (next to be held by NA); results - percent of vote
    by party NA; seats - (360 total) Samakki Tham 79, Chart Thai Party 74, New
    Aspiration Party 72, DP 44, Palang Dharma 41, SAP 31, TCP 7, Solidarity
    Party 6, Rassadorn 4, Muanchon 1, Puangchon Chotahi 1
Communists:
    illegal Communist party has 500 to 1,000 members; armed Communist insurgents
    throughout Thailand total 200 (est.)
Member of:
    APEC, AsDB, ASEAN, CCC, CP, ESCAP, FAO, G-77, GATT, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC,
    ICFTU, IDA, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, IOM, ISO,
    ITU, LORCS, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WHO, WIPO, WMO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador-designate PHIRAPHONG Kasemsi; Embassy at 2300 Kalorama Road NW,
    Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 483-7200; there are Thai Consulates
    General in Chicago, Los Angeles, and New York
  US:
    Ambassador David F. LAMBERTSON; Embassy at 95 Wireless Road, Bangkok
    (mailing address is APO AP 96546); telephone [66] (2) 252-5040; FAX [66] (2)
    254-2990; there is a US Consulate General in Chiang Mai and Consulates in
    Songkhla and Udorn
Flag:
    five horizontal bands of red (top), white, blue (double width), white, and
    red

:Thailand Economy

Overview:
    Thailand, one of the more advanced developing countries in Asia, enjoyed a
    year of 8% growth in 1991, although down from an annual average of 11%
    growth between 1987 and 1990. The increasingly sophisticated manufacturing
    sector benefited from export-oriented investment. The manufacturing and
    service sectors have accounted for the lion's share of economic growth.
    Thailand's traditional agricultural sector continued to become less
    important to the overall economy in 1991. The trade deficit continued to
    increase in 1991, to $11 billion; earnings from tourism and remittances grew
    marginally as a result of the Gulf War; and Thailand's import bill grew,
    especially for manufactures and oil. The government has followed fairly
    sound fiscal and monetary policies. Aided by increased tax receipts from the
    fast-moving economy; Bangkok recorded its fourth consecutive budget surplus
    in 1991. The government is moving ahead with new projects - especially for
    telecommunications, roads, and port facilities - needed to refurbish the
    country's overtaxed infrastructure. Political unrest and the military's
    shooting of antigovernment demonstrators in May 1992 have caused
    international businessmen to question Thailand's political stability.
    Thailand's general economic outlook remains good, however, assuming the
    continuation of the government's progrowth measures.
GNP:
    exchange rate conversion - $92.6 billion, per capita $1,630; real growth
    rate 8% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    5.6% (1991 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    4.1% (1991 est.)
Budget:
    revenues $17.9 billion; expenditures $17.9 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $5.0 billion (FY92 est.)
Exports:
    $27.5 billion (f.o.b., 1991)
  commodities:
    machinery and manufactures 62%, food 28%, crude materials 7% (1990)
  partners:
    US 23.4%, Japan 17.2%, Singapore 7.3%, Germany 5.3%, Hong Kong 4.8%, UK
    4.4%, Netherlands 4.3%, Malaysia, France, China (1990)
Imports:
    $39.0 billion (c.i.f., 1991)
  commodities:
    machinery and manufactures 67%, chemicals l0%, fuels 9%, crude materials 6%
    (1990)
  partners:
    Japan 30.2%, US 12%, Singapore 6.9%, Taiwan 5%, Germany 4.8%, China 3.2%,
    South Korea, Malaysia, UK (1990)
External debt:
    $25.1 billion (1990)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 14% (1990 est.); accounts for about 25% of GDP
Electricity:
    7,400,000 kW capacity; 37,500 million kWh produced, 660 kWh per capita
    (1991)
Industries:
    tourism is the largest source of foreign exchange; textiles and garments,
    agricultural processing, beverages, tobacco, cement, other light
    manufacturing, such as jewelry; electric appliances and components,
    integrated circuits, furniture, plastics; world's second-largest tungsten
    producer and third-largest tin producer

:Thailand Economy

Agriculture:
    accounts for 12% of GDP and 60% of labor force; leading producer and
    exporter of rice and cassava (tapioca); other crops - rubber, corn,
    sugarcane, coconuts, soybeans; except for wheat, self-sufficient in food
Illicit drugs:
    a minor producer, major illicit trafficker of heroin, particularly from
    Burma and Laos, and cannabis for the international drug market; eradication
    efforts have reduced the area of cannabis cultivation and shifted some
    production to neighboring countries; opium poppy cultivation has been
    affected by eradication efforts
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $870 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $8.6 billion; OPEC
    bilateral aid (1979-89), $19 million
Currency:
    baht (plural - baht); 1 baht (B) = 100 satang
Exchange rates:
    baht (B) per US$1 - 25.614 (March 1992), 25.517 (1991), 25.585 (1990),
    25.702 (1989), 25.294 (1988), 25.723 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    1 October-30 September

:Thailand Communications

Railroads:
    3,940 km 1.000-meter gauge, 99 km double track
Highways:
    44,534 km total; 28,016 km paved, 5,132 km earth surface, 11,386 km under
    development
Inland waterways:
    3,999 km principal waterways; 3,701 km with navigable depths of 0.9 m or
    more throughout the year; numerous minor waterways navigable by
    shallow-draft native craft
Pipelines:
    natural gas 350 km, petroleum products 67 km
Ports:
    Bangkok, Pattani, Phuket, Sattahip, Si Racha
Merchant marine:
    151 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 628,225 GRT/957,095 DWT; includes 1
    short-sea passenger, 87 cargo, 11 container, 31 petroleum tanker, 9
    liquefied gas, 2 chemical tanker, 3 bulk, 4 refrigerated cargo, 2
    combination bulk, 1 passenger
Civil air:
    41 (plus 2 leased) major transport aircraft
Airports:
    115 total, 97 usable; 50 with permanent-surface runways; 1 with runways over
    3,659 m; 13 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 28 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    service to general public inadequate; bulk of service to government
    activities provided by multichannel cable and radio relay network; 739,500
    telephones (1987); broadcast stations - over 200 AM, 100 FM, and 11 TV in
    government-controlled networks; satellite earth stations - 1 Indian Ocean
    INTELSAT and 1 Pacific Ocean INTELSAT domestic satellite system being
    developed

:Thailand Defense Forces

Branches:
    Royal Thai Army, Royal Thai Navy (including Royal Thai Marine Corps), Royal
    Thai Air Force, Paramilitary Forces
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 16,361,393; 9,966,446 fit for military service; 612,748 reach
    military age (18) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $2.7 billion, about 3% of GNP (1992 budget)

:Togo Geography

Total area:
    56,790 km2
Land area:
    54,390 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than West Virginia
Land boundaries:
    1,647 km total; Benin 644 km, Burkina 126 km, Ghana 877 km
Coastline:
    56 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    30 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    tropical; hot, humid in south; semiarid in north
Terrain:
    gently rolling savanna in north; central hills; southern plateau; low
    coastal plain with extensive lagoons and marshes
Natural resources:
    phosphates, limestone, marble
Land use:
    arable land 25%; permanent crops 1%; meadows and pastures 4%; forest and
    woodland 28%; other 42%; includes irrigated NEGL%
Environment:
    hot, dry harmattan wind can reduce visibility in north during winter; recent
    droughts affecting agriculture; deforestation

:Togo People

Population:
    3,958,863 (July 1992), growth rate 3.6% (1992)
Birth rate:
    48 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    12 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    94 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    54 years male, 58 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    7.0 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Togolese (singular and plural); adjective - Togolese
Ethnic divisions:
    37 tribes; largest and most important are Ewe, Mina, and Kabye; under 1%
    European and Syrian-Lebanese
Religions:
    indigenous beliefs about 70%, Christian 20%, Muslim 10%
Languages:
    French, both official and language of commerce; major African languages are
    Ewe and Mina in the south and Dagomba and Kabye in the north
Literacy:
    43% (male 56%, female 31%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    NA; agriculture 78%, industry 22%; about 88,600 wage earners, evenly divided
    between public and private sectors; 50% of population of working age (1985)
Organized labor:
    Federation of Togolese Workers (CNTT) was only legal labor union until
    Spring 1991; at least two more groups established since then: Labor
    Federation of Togolese Workers (CSTT) and the National Union of Independent
    Syndicates (UNSIT), each with 10-12 member unions; four other civil service
    unions have formed a loose coalition known as the Autonomous Syndicates of
    Togo (CTSA)

:Togo Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Togo
Type:
    republic; under transition to multiparty democratic rule
Capital:
    Lome
Administrative divisions:
    21 circumscriptions (circonscriptions, singular - circonscription); Amlame
    (Amou), Aneho (Lacs), Atakpame (Ogou), Badou (Wawa), Bafilo (Assoli), Bassar
    (Bassari), Dapango (Tone), Kande (Keran), Klouto (Kloto), Pagouda (Binah),
    Lama-Kara (Kozah), Lome (Golfe), Mango (Oti), Niamtougou (Doufelgou), Notse
    (Haho), Pagouda, Sotouboua, Tabligbo (Yoto), Tchamba, Nyala, Tchaoudjo,
    Tsevie (Zio), Vogan (Vo); note - the 21 units may now be called prefectures
    (prefectures, singular - prefecture) and reported name changes for
    individual units are included in parentheses
Independence:
    27 April 1960 (from UN trusteeship under French administration, formerly
    French Togo)
Constitution:
    1980 constitution nullified during national reform conference; transition
    constitution adopted 24 August 1991; multiparty draft constitution sent to
    High Council of the Republic for approval in November 1991, scheduled to be
    put to public referendum in NA 1992
Legal system:
    French-based court system
National holiday:
    Independence Day 27 April (1960)
Executive branch:
    president, prime minister, Council of Ministers (cabinet)
Legislative branch:
    National Assembly dissolved during national reform conference; 79-member
    interim High Council for the Republic (HCR) formed to act as legislature
    during transition to multiparty democracy; legislative elections scheduled
    to be held in NA
Judicial branch:
    Court of Appeal (Cour d'Appel), Supreme Court (Cour Supreme)
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Gen. Gnassingbe EYADEMA (since 14 April 1967)
  Head of Government:
    interim Prime Minister Joseph Kokou KOFFIGOH (since 28 August 1991)
Political parties and leaders:
    Rally of the Togolese People (RPT) led by President EYADEMA was the only
    party until the formation of multiple parties was legalized 12 April 1991;
    more than 10 parties formed as of mid-May, though none yet legally
    registered; a national conference to determine transition regime took place
    10 July-28 August 1991
Suffrage:
    universal adult at age NA
Elections:
  President:
    last held 21 December 1986 (next to be held NA 1992); results - Gen. EYADEMA
    was reelected without opposition
  National Assembly:
    last held 4 March 1990; dissolved during national reform conference (next to
    be held April/May 1992); results - RPT was the only party; seats - (77
    total) RPT 77

:Togo Government

Member of:
    ACCT, ACP, AfDB, CEAO (observer), ECA, ECOWAS, Entente, FAO, FZ, G-77, GATT,
    IBRD, ICAO, ICC, IDA, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC,
    ITU, LORCS, NAM, OAU, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WADB, WCL, WHO, WIPO,
    WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Ellom-Kodjo SCHUPPIUS; Chancery at 2208 Massachusetts Avenue NW,
    Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 234-4212 or 4213
  US:
    Ambassador Harmon E. KIRBY; Embassy at Rue Pelletier Caventou and Rue
    Vauban, Lome (mailing address is B. P. 852, Lome); telephone [228] 21-29-91
    through 94 and 21-77-17; FAX [228] 21-79-52
Flag:
    five equal horizontal bands of green (top and bottom) alternating with
    yellow; there is a white five-pointed star on a red square in the upper
    hoist-side corner; uses the popular pan-African colors of Ethiopia

:Togo Economy

Overview:
    The economy is heavily dependent on subsistence agriculture, which accounts
    for about 35% of GDP and provides employment for 78% of the labor force.
    Primary agricultural exports are cocoa, coffee, and cotton, which together
    account for about 30% of total export earnings. Togo is self-sufficient in
    basic foodstuffs when harvests are normal. In the industrial sector
    phosphate mining is by far the most important activity, with phosphate
    exports accounting for about 40% of total foreign exchange earnings. Togo
    serves as a regional commercial and trade center. The government, over the
    past decade, with IMF and World Bank support, has been implementing a number
    of economic reform measures, that is, actively encouraging foreign
    investment and attempting to bring revenues in line with expenditures.
    Political unrest throughout 1991, however, has jeopardized the reform
    program and has disrupted vital economic activity.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $1.5 billion, per capita $400; real growth rate
    2% (1990 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    1.0% (1990)
Unemployment rate:
    2.0% (1987)
Budget:
    revenues $330 million; expenditures $363 million, including capital
    expenditures of $101 million (1990 est.)
Exports:
    $396 million (f.o.b., 1990)
  commodities:
    phosphates, cocoa, coffee, cotton, manufactures, palm kernels
  partners:
    EC 70%, Africa 9%, US 2%, other 19% (1985)
Imports:
    $502 million (f.o.b., 1990)
  commodities:
    food, fuels, durable consumer goods, other intermediate goods, capital goods
  partners:
    EC 61%, US 6%, Africa 4%, Japan 4%, other 25% (1989)
External debt:
    $1.3 billion (1990 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 4.9% (1987 est.); 6% of GDP
Electricity:
    179,000 kW capacity; 209 million kWh produced, 60 kWh per capita (1990)
Industries:
    phosphate mining, agricultural processing, cement, handicrafts, textiles,
    beverages
Agriculture:
    cash crops - coffee, cocoa, cotton; food crops - yams, cassava, corn, beans,
    rice, millet, sorghum; livestock production not significant; annual fish
    catch, 10,000-14,000 tons
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $132 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $1.9 billion; OPEC
    bilateral aid (1979-89), $35 million; Communist countries (1970-89), $51
    million
Currency:
    Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (plural - francs); 1 CFA franc (CFAF)
    = 100 centimes

:Togo Economy

Exchange rates:
    Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (CFAF) per US$1 - 281.99 (March
    1992), 282.11 (1991), 272.26 (1990), 319.01 (1989), 297.85 (1988), 300.54
    (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Togo Communications

Railroads:
    515 km 1.000-meter gauge, single track
Highways:
    6,462 km total; 1,762 km paved; 4,700 km unimproved roads
Inland waterways:
    50 km Mono River
Ports:
    Lome, Kpeme (phosphate port)
Merchant marine:
    3 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 20,975 GRT/34,022 DWT; includes 2
    roll-on/roll-off cargo, 1 multifunction large-load carrier
Civil air:
    3 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    9 total, 9 usable; 2 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways over
    3,659 m; 2 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; none with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    fair system based on network of radio relay routes supplemented by open wire
    lines; broadcast stations - 2 AM, no FM, 3 (2 relays) TV; satellite earth
    stations - 1 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT and 1 SYMPHONIE

:Togo Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Navy, Air Force, Gendarmerie
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 828,259; 435,113 fit for military service; no conscription
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $43 million, about 3% of GDP (1989)

:Tokelau Geography

Total area:
    10 km2
Land area:
    10 km2
Comparative area:
    about 17 times the size of The Mall in Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    101 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    tropical; moderated by trade winds (April to November)
Terrain:
    coral atolls enclosing large lagoons
Natural resources:
    negligible
Land use:
    arable land 0%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 0%; forest and
    woodland 0%; other 100%
Environment:
    lies in Pacific typhoon belt
Note:
    located 3,750 km southwest of Honolulu in the South Pacific Ocean, about
    halfway between Hawaii and New Zealand

:Tokelau People

Population:
    1,760 (July 1992), growth rate 0.7% (1992)
Birth rate:
    NA births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    NA deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    NA migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    NA deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    NA years male, NA years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    NA children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Tokelauan(s); adjective - Tokelauan
Ethnic divisions:
    all Polynesian, with cultural ties to Western Samoa
Religions:
    Congregational Christian Church 70%, Roman Catholic 28%, other 2%; on Atafu,
    all Congregational Christian Church of Samoa; on Nukunonu, all Roman
    Catholic; on Fakaofo, both denominations, with the Congregational Christian
    Church predominant
Languages:
    Tokelauan (a Polynesian language) and English
Literacy:
    NA% (male NA%, female NA%)
Labor force:
    NA
Organized labor:
    NA

:Tokelau Government

Long-form name:
    none
Type:
    territory of New Zealand
Capital:
    none; each atoll has its own administrative center
Administrative divisions:
    none (territory of New Zealand)
Independence:
    none (territory of New Zealand)
Constitution:
    administered under the Tokelau Islands Act of 1948, as amended in 1970
Legal system:
    British and local statutes
National holiday:
    Waitangi Day (Treaty of Waitangi established British sovereignty over New
    Zealand), 6 February (1840)
Executive branch:
    British monarch, administrator (appointed by the Minister of Foreign Affairs
    in New Zealand), official secretary
Legislative branch:
    Council of Elders (Taupulega) on each atoll
Judicial branch:
    High Court in Niue, Supreme Court in New Zealand
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952)
  Head of Government:
    Administrator Neil WALTER (since NA February 1988); Official Secretary
    Casimilo J. PEREZ, Office of Tokelau Affairs
Suffrage:
    NA
Elections:
    NA
Member of:
    SPC
Diplomatic representation:
    none (territory of New Zealand)
Flag:
    the flag of New Zealand is used

:Tokelau Economy

Overview:
    Tokelau's small size, isolation, and lack of resources greatly restrain
    economic development and confine agriculture to the subsistence level. The
    people must rely on aid from New Zealand to maintain public services, annual
    aid being substantially greater than GDP. The principal sources of revenue
    come from sales of copra, postage stamps, souvenir coins, and handicrafts.
    Money is also remitted to families from relatives in New Zealand.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $1.4 million, per capita $800; real growth rate
    NA% (1988 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    NA%
Unemployment rate:
    NA%
Budget:
    revenues $430,830; expenditures $2.8 million, including capital expenditures
    of $37,300 (FY87)
Exports:
    $98,000 (f.o.b., 1983)
  commodities:
    stamps, copra, handicrafts
  partners:
    NZ
Imports:
    $323,400 (c.i.f., 1983)
  commodities:
    foodstuffs, building materials, fuel
  partners:
    NZ
External debt:
    none
Industrial production:
    growth rate NA%
Electricity:
    200 kW capacity; 300,000 kWh produced, 180 kWh per capita (1990)
Industries:
    small-scale enterprises for copra production, wood work, plaited craft
    goods; stamps, coins; fishing
Agriculture:
    coconuts, copra; basic subsistence crops - breadfruit, papaya, bananas;
    pigs, poultry, goats
Economic aid:
    Western (non-US) countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $24
    million
Currency:
    New Zealand dollar (plural - dollars); 1 New Zealand dollar (NZ$) = 100
    cents
Exchange rates:
    New Zealand dollars (NZ$) per US$1 - 1.8245 (March 1992), l.7265 (1991),
    1.6750 (1990), 1.6708 (1989), 1.5244 (1988), 1.6886 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    1 April-31 March

:Tokelau Communications

Ports:
    none; offshore anchorage only
Airports:
    none; lagoon landings by amphibious aircraft from Western Samoa
Telecommunications:
    telephone service between islands and to Western Samoa

:Tokelau Defense Forces

Note:
    defense is the responsibility of New Zealand

:Tonga Geography

Total area:
    748 km2
Land area:
    718 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly more than four times the size of Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    419 km
Maritime claims:
  Continental shelf:
    no specific limits
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    tropical; modified by trade winds; warm season (December to May), cool
    season (May to December)
Terrain:
    most islands have limestone base formed from uplifted coral formation;
    others have limestone overlying volcanic base
Natural resources:
    fish, fertile soil
Land use:
    arable land 25%; permanent crops 55%; meadows and pastures 6%; forest and
    woodland 12%; other 2%
Environment:
    archipelago of 170 islands (36 inhabited); subject to cyclones (October to
    April); deforestation
Note:
    located about 2,250 km north-northwest of New Zealand, about two-thirds of
    the way between Hawaii and New Zealand

:Tonga People

Population:
    103,114 (July 1992), growth rate 0.8% (1992)
Birth rate:
    26 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    7 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    -11 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    22 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    65 years male, 70 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    3.7 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Tongan(s); adjective - Tongan
Ethnic divisions:
    Polynesian; about 300 Europeans
Religions:
    Christian; Free Wesleyan Church claims over 30,000 adherents
Languages:
    Tongan, English
Literacy:
    100% (male 100%, female 100%) age 15 and over can read and write a simple
    message in Tongan or English (1976)
Labor force:
    NA; 70% agriculture; 600 engaged in mining
Organized labor:
    none

:Tonga Government

Long-form name:
    Kingdom of Tonga
Type:
    hereditary constitutional monarchy
Capital:
    Nuku`alofa
Administrative divisions:
    three island groups; Ha`apai, Tongatapu, Vava`u
Independence:
    4 June 1970 (from UK; formerly Friendly Islands)
Constitution:
    4 November 1875, revised 1 January 1967
Legal system:
    based on English law
National holiday:
    Emancipation Day, 4 June (1970)
Executive branch:
    monarch, prime minister, deputy prime minister, Council of Ministers
    (cabinet), Privy Council
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Legislative Assembly (Fale Alea)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    King Taufa'ahau TUPOU IV (since 16 December 1965)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Baron VAEA (since 22 August 1991); Deputy Prime Minister S.
    Langi KAVALIKU (since 22 August 1991)
Political parties and leaders:
    Democratic Reform Movement, 'Akilisi POHIVA
Suffrage:
    all literate, tax-paying males and all literate females over 21
Elections:
  Legislative Assembly:
    last held 14-15 February 1990 (next to be held NA February 1993); results -
    percent of vote NA; seats - (29 total, 9 elected) 6 proreform, 3
    traditionalist
Member of:
    ACP, AsDB, C, ESCAP, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IMF, INTERPOL,
    IOC, ITU, LORCS, SPC, SPF, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WHO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Siosaia a'Ulupekotofa TUITA resides in London
  US:
    the US has no offices in Tonga; the Ambassador to Fiji is accredited to
    Tonga and makes periodic visits
Flag:
    red with a bold red cross on a white rectangle in the upper hoist-side
    corner

:Tonga Economy

Overview:
    The economy's base is agriculture, which employs about 70% of the labor
    force and contributes 50% to GDP. Coconuts, bananas, and vanilla beans are
    the main crops and make up two-thirds of exports. The country must import a
    high proportion of its food, mainly from New Zealand. The manufacturing
    sector accounts for only 11% of GDP. Tourism is the primary source of hard
    currency earnings, but the island remains dependent on sizable external aid
    and remittances to offset its trade deficit.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $92 million, per capita $900; real growth rate
    2.5% (FY90 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    8.9% (third quarter 1991)
Unemployment rate:
    NA%
Budget:
    revenues $30.6 million; expenditures $48.9 million, including capital
    expenditures of $22.5 million (FY89 est.)
Exports:
    $9.6 million (f.o.b., FY90 est.)
  commodities:
    coconut oil, desiccated coconut, copra, bananas, taro, vanilla beans,
    fruits, vegetables, fish
  partners:
    NZ 35%, Australia 22%, US 13%, Fiji 5% (FY90)
Imports:
    $59.9 million (c.i.f., FY90 est.)
  commodities:
    food products, machinery and transport equipment, manufactures, fuels,
    chemicals
  partners:
    NZ 30%, Australia 23%, US 12%, Japan 7% (FY90)
External debt:
    $42.0 million (FY89)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 15% (FY86); accounts for 11% of GDP
Electricity:
    6,000 kW capacity; 8 million kWh produced, 80 kWh per capita (1990)
Industries:
    tourism, fishing
Agriculture:
    dominated by coconut, copra, and banana production; vanilla beans, cocoa,
    coffee, ginger, black pepper
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $16 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $258 million
Currency:
    pa'anga (plural - pa'anga); 1 pa'anga (T$) = 100 seniti
Exchange rates:
    pa'anga (T$) per US$1 - 1.2987 (January 1992), 1.2961 (1991), 1.2809 (1990),
    1.2637 (1989), 1.2799 (1988), 1.4282 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    1 July-30 June

:Tonga Communications

Highways:
    198 km sealed road (Tongatapu); 74 km (Vava`u); 94 km unsealed roads usable
    only in dry weather
Ports:
    Nukualofa, Neiafu, Pangai
Merchant marine:
    4 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 11,511 GRT/17,816 DWT; includes 2
    cargo, 1 roll-on/roll-off cargo, 1 liquefied gas
Civil air:
    no major transport aircraft
Airports:
    6 total, 6 usable; 1 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways over
    3,659 m; 1 with runways 2,440-3,659; 1 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    3,529 telephones; 66,000 radios; no TV sets; broadcast stations - 1 AM, no
    FM, no TV; 1 Pacific Ocean INTELSAT earth station

:Tonga Defense Forces

Branches:
    Tonga Defense Force, Tonga Maritime Division, Royal Tongan Marines, Royal
    Tongan Guard, Police
Manpower availability:
    NA
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $NA, NA% of GDP

:Trinidad and Tobago Geography

Total area:
    5,130 km2
Land area:
    5,130 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than Delaware
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    362 km
Maritime claims:
  Continental shelf:
    outer edge of continental margin or 200 nm
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    tropical; rainy season (June to December)
Terrain:
    mostly plains with some hills and low mountains
Natural resources:
    crude oil, natural gas, asphalt
Land use:
    arable land 14%; permanent crops 17%; meadows and pastures 2%; forest and
    woodland 44%; other 23%; includes irrigated 4%
Environment:
    outside usual path of hurricanes and other tropical storms
Note:
    located 11 km from Venezuela

:Trinidad and Tobago People

Population:
    1,299,301 (July 1992), growth rate 1.1% (1992)
Birth rate:
    21 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    6 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    -3 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    17 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    68 years male, 73 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    2.4 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Trinidadian(s), Tobagonian(s); adjective - Trinidadian, Tobagonian
Ethnic divisions:
    black 43%, East Indian 40%, mixed 14%, white 1%, Chinese 1%, other 1%
Religions:
    Roman Catholic 32.2%, Hindu 24.3%, Anglican 14.4%, other Protestant 14%,
    Muslim 6%, none or unknown 9.1%
Languages:
    English (official), Hindi, French, Spanish
Literacy:
    95% (male 97%, female 93%) age 15 and over can read and write (1980)
Labor force:
    463,900; construction and utilities 18.1%; manufacturing, mining, and
    quarrying 14.8%; agriculture 10.9%; other 56.2% (1985 est.)
Organized labor:
    22% of labor force (1988)

:Trinidad and Tobago Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Trinidad and Tobago
Type:
    parliamentary democracy
Capital:
    Port-of-Spain
Administrative divisions:
    8 counties, 3 municipalities*, and 1 ward**; Arima*, Caroni, Mayaro, Nariva,
    Port-of-Spain*, Saint Andrew, Saint David, Saint George, Saint Patrick, San
    Fernando*, Tobago**, Victoria
Independence:
    31 August 1962 (from UK)
Constitution:
    31 August 1976
Legal system:
    based on English common law; judicial review of legislative acts in the
    Supreme Court; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 31 August (1962)
Executive branch:
    president, prime minister, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    bicameral Parliament consists of an upper house or Senate and a lower house
    or House of Representatives
Judicial branch:
    Court of Appeal, Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Noor Mohammed HASSANALI (since 18 March 1987)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Patrick Augustus Mervyn MANNING (since 17 December 1991)
Political parties and leaders:
    People's National Movement (PNM), Patrick MANNING; United National Congress
    (UNC), Basdeo PANDAY; National Alliance for Reconstruction (NAR), Carson
    CHARLES; Movement for Social Transformation (MOTION), David ABDULLAH;
    National Joint Action Committee (NJAC), Makandal DAAGA
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  House of Representatives:
    last held 16 December 1991 (next to be held by December 1996);results - PNM
    32%, UNC 13%, NAR 2%; seats - (36 total) PNM 21, UNC 13, NAR 2
Communists:
    Communist Party of Trinidad and Tobago; Trinidad and Tobago Peace Council,
    James MILLETTE
Member of:
    ACP, C, CARICOM, CCC, CDB, ECLAC, FAO, G-24, G-77, GATT, IADB, IBRD, ICAO,
    ICFTU, IDA, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, ISO, ITU,
    LAES, LORCS, NAM, OAS, OPANAL, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WFTU, WHO,
    WIPO, WMO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Corinne BAPTISTE; Chancery at 1708 Massachusetts Avenue NW,
    Washington, DC 20036; telephone (202) 467-6490; Trinidad and Tobago has a
    Consulate General in New York
  US:
    Ambassador Sally GROOMS-COWAL; Embassy at 15 Queen's Park West,
    Port-of-Spain (mailing address is P. O. Box 752, Port-of-Spain); telephone
    (809) 622-6372 through 6376, 6176; FAX (809) 628-5462

:Trinidad and Tobago Government

Flag:
    red with a white-edged black diagonal band from the upper hoist side

:Trinidad and Tobago Economy

Overview:
    Trinidad and Tobago's petroleum-based economy began to emerge from a lengthy
    depression in 1990 and 1991. The economy fell sharply through most of the
    1980s, largely because of the decline in oil prices. This sector accounts
    for 80% of export earnings and more than 25% of GDP. The government, in
    response to the oil revenue loss, pursued a series of austerity measures
    that pushed the unemployment rate as high as 22% in 1988. The economy showed
    signs of recovery in 1990, however, helped along by rising oil prices.
    Agriculture employs only about 11% of the labor force and produces about 3%
    of GDP. Since this sector is small, it has been unable to absorb the large
    numbers of the unemployed. The government currently seeks to diversify its
    export base.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $4.9 billion, per capita $3,600; real growth rate
    0.7% (1990)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    11.1% (1990)
Unemployment rate:
    21% (1990)
Budget:
    revenues $1.5 billion; expenditures $1.7 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $150 million (1991 est.)
Exports:
    $2.0 billion (f.o.b., 1990)
  commodities:
    includes reexports - petroleum and petroleum products 82%, steel products
    9%, fertilizer, sugar, cocoa, coffee, citrus (1988)
  partners:
    US 54%, CARICOM 16%, EC 10%, Latin America 3% (1989)
Imports:
    $1.2 billion (c.i.f., 1990)
  commodities:
    raw materials and intermediate goods 47%, capital goods 26%, consumer goods
    26% (1988)
  partners:
    US 41%, Latin America 10%, UK 8%, Canada 5%, CARICOM 6% (1989)
External debt:
    $2.5 billion (1990)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 2.3%, excluding oil refining (1986); accounts for 40% of GDP,
    including petroleum
Electricity:
    1,176,000 kW capacity; 3,480 million kWh produced, 2,708 kWh per capita
    (1991)
Industries:
    petroleum, chemicals, tourism, food processing, cement, beverage, cotton
    textiles
Agriculture:
    highly subsidized sector; major crops - cocoa and sugarcane; sugarcane
    acreage is being shifted into rice, citrus, coffee, vegetables; poultry
    sector most important source of animal protein; must import large share of
    food needs
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $373 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $518 million
Currency:
    Trinidad and Tobago dollar (plural - dollars); 1 Trinidad and Tobago dollar
    (TT$) = 100 cents

:Trinidad and Tobago Economy

Exchange rates:
    Trinidad and Tobago dollars (TT$) per US$1 - 4.2500 (March 1992), 4.2500
    (1991), 4.2500 (1990), 4.2500 (1989), 3.8438 (1988), 3.6000 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Trinidad and Tobago Communications

Railroads:
    minimal agricultural railroad system near San Fernando
Highways:
    8,000 km total; 4,000 km paved, 1,000 km improved earth, 3,000 km unimproved
    earth
Pipelines:
    crude oil 1,032 km, petroleum products 19 km, natural gas 904 km
Ports:
    Port-of-Spain, Point Lisas, Pointe-a-Pierre
Civil air:
    14 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    6 total, 5 usable; 2 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways over
    3,659 m; 2 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 1 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    excellent international service via tropospheric scatter links to Barbados
    and Guyana; good local service; 109,000 telephones; broadcast stations - 2
    AM, 4 FM, 5 TV; 1 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT earth station

:Trinidad and Tobago Defense Forces

Branches:
    Trinidad and Tobago Defense Force (Army), Coast Guard, Air Wing, Trinidad
    and Tobago Police Service
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 344,990; 248,912 fit for military service
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $59 million, 1-2% of GDP (1989 est.)

:Tromelin Island Geography

Total area:
    1 km2
Land area:
    1 km2
Comparative area:
    about 1.7 times the size of The Mall in Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    3.7 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    12 nm
  Continental shelf:
    200 m (depth) or to depth of exploitation
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    claimed by Madagascar, Mauritius, and Seychelles
Climate:
    tropical
Terrain:
    sandy
Natural resources:
    fish
Land use:
    arable land 0%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 0%; forest and
    woodland 0%; other - scattered bushes 100%
Environment:
    wildlife sanctuary
Note:
    located 350 km east of Madagascar and 600 km north of Reunion in the Indian
    Ocean; climatologically important location for forecasting cyclones

:Tromelin Island People

Population:
    uninhabited

:Tromelin Island Government

Long-form name:
    none
Type:
    French possession administered by Commissioner of the Republic Jacques
    DEWATRE (since NA July 1991), resident in Reunion
Capital:
    none; administered by France from Reunion

:Tromelin Island Economy

Overview:
    no economic activity

:Tromelin Island Communications

Ports:
    none; offshore anchorage only
Airports:
    1 with runway less than 1,220 m
Telecommunications:
    important meteorological station

:Tromelin Island Defense Forces

Note:
    defense is the responsibility of France

:Tunisia Geography

Total area:
    163,610 km2
Land area:
    155,360 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than Georgia
Land boundaries:
    1,424 km total; Algeria 965 km, Libya 459 km
Coastline:
    1,148 km
Maritime claims:
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    maritime boundary dispute with Libya; land boundary disputes with Algeria
    under discussion
Climate:
    temperate in north with mild, rainy winters and hot, dry summers; desert in
    south
Terrain:
    mountains in north; hot, dry central plain; semiarid south merges into the
    Sahara
Natural resources:
    crude oil, phosphates, iron ore, lead, zinc, salt
Land use:
    arable land 20%; permanent crops 10%; meadows and pastures 19%; forest and
    woodland 4%; other 47%; includes irrigated 1%
Environment:
    deforestation; overgrazing; soil erosion; desertification
Note:
    strategic location in central Mediterranean; only 144 km from Italy across
    the Strait of Sicily; borders Libya on east

:Tunisia People

Population:
    8,445,656 (July 1992), growth rate 2.0% (1992)
Birth rate:
    25 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    5 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    38 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    70 years male, 74 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    3.2 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Tunisian(s); adjective - Tunisian
Ethnic divisions:
    Arab-Berber 98%, European 1%, Jewish less than 1%
Religions:
    Muslim 98%, Christian 1%, Jewish less than 1%
Languages:
    Arabic (official); Arabic and French (commerce)
Literacy:
    65% (male 74%, female 56%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    2,250,000; agriculture 32%; shortage of skilled labor
Organized labor:
    about 360,000 members claimed, roughly 20% of labor force; General Union of
    Tunisian Workers (UGTT), quasi-independent of Constitutional Democratic
    Party

:Tunisia Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Tunisia; note - may be changed to Tunisian Republic
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Tunis
Administrative divisions:
    23 governorates; Beja, Ben Arous, Bizerte, Gabes, Gafsa, Jendouba, Kairouan,
    Kasserine, Kebili, L'Ariana, Le Kef, Mahdia, Medenine, Monastir, Nabeul,
    Sfax, Sidi Bou Zid, Siliana, Sousse, Tataouine, Tozeur, Tunis, Zaghouan
Independence:
    20 March 1956 (from France)
Constitution:
    1 June 1959
Legal system:
    based on French civil law system and Islamic law; some judicial review of
    legislative acts in the Supreme Court in joint session
National holiday:
    National Day, 20 March (1956)
Executive branch:
    president, prime minister, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Chamber of Deputies (Majlis al-Nuwaab)
Judicial branch:
    Court of Cassation (Cour de Cassation)
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Gen. Zine el Abidine BEN ALI (since 7 November 1987)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Hamed KAROUI (since 26 September 1989)
Political parties and leaders:
    Constitutional Democratic Rally Party (RCD), President BEN ALI (official
    ruling party); Movement of Democratic Socialists (MDS), Mohammed MOUAADA;
    five other political parties are legal, including the Communist Party
Suffrage:
    universal at age 20
Elections:
  President:
    last held 2 April 1989 (next to be held NA April 1994); results - Gen. Zine
    el Abidine BEN ALI was reelected without opposition
  Chamber of Deputies:
    last held 2 April 1989 (next to be held NA April 1994); results - RCD 80.7%,
    independents/Islamists 13.7%, MDS 3.2%, other 2.4%; seats - (141 total) RCD
    141
Member of:
    ABEDA, ACCT, AfDB, AFESD, AL, AMF, AMU, CCC, ECA, FAO, G-77, GATT, IAEA,
    IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INMARSAT,
    INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, ISO, ITU, LORCS, NAM, OAU, OIC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
    UNHCR, UNIDO, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Ismail KHELIL; Chancery at 1515 Massachusetts Avenue NW,
    Washington DC 20005; telephone (202) 862-1850
  US:
    Ambassador John T. McCARTHY; Embassy at 144 Avenue de la Liberte, 1002
    Tunis-Belvedere; telephone [216] (1) 782-566; FAX [216] (1) 789-719
Flag:
    red with a white disk in the center bearing a red crescent nearly encircling
    a red five-pointed star; the crescent and star are traditional symbols of
    Islam

:Tunisia Economy

Overview:
    The economy depends primarily on petroleum, phosphates, tourism, and exports
    of light manufactures. Following two years of drought-induced economic
    decline, the economy made a strong recovery in 1990 as a result of a
    bountiful harvest, continued export growth, and higher domestic investment.
    Continued high inflation and unemployment have eroded popular support for
    the government, however, and forced Tunis to slow the pace of economic
    reform. Nonetheless, the government appears committed to implementing its
    IMF-supported structural adjustment program and to servicing its foreign
    debt.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $10.9 billion, per capita $1,320; real growth
    rate 3.5% (1991)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    8.2% (1991)
Unemployment rate:
    15% (1991)
Budget:
    revenues $3.8 billion; expenditures $5.4 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $970 million (1992 est.)
Exports:
    $3.7 billion (f.o.b., 1991)
  commodities:
    hydrocarbons, agricultural products, phosphates and chemicals
  partners:
    EC 74%, Middle East 11%, US 2%, Turkey, USSR
Imports:
    $4.9 billion (f.o.b., 1991)
  commodities:
    industrial goods and equipment 57%, hydrocarbons 13%, food 12%, consumer
    goods
  partners:
    EC 67%, US 6%, Canada, Japan, Switzerland, Turkey, Algeria
External debt:
    $8.6 billion (1991)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 5% (1989); accounts for about 25% of GDP, including petroleum
Electricity:
    1,493,000 kW capacity; 4,210 million kWh produced, 530 kWh per capita (1989)
Industries:
    petroleum, mining (particularly phosphate and iron ore), tourism, textiles,
    footwear, food, beverages
Agriculture:
    accounts for 16% of GDP and one-third of labor force; output subject to
    severe fluctuations because of frequent droughts; export crops - olives,
    dates, oranges, almonds; other products - grain, sugar beets, wine grapes,
    poultry, beef, dairy; not self-sufficient in food; fish catch of 99,200
    metric tons (1987)
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $730 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $5.2 billion; OPEC
    bilateral aid (1979-89), $684 million; Communist countries (1970-89), $410
    million
Currency:
    Tunisian dinar (plural - dinars); 1 Tunisian dinar (TD) = 1,000 millimes
Exchange rates:
    Tunisian dinars (TD) per US$1 - 0.9272 (March 1992), 0.9246 (1991), 0.8783
    (1990), 0.9493 (1989), 0.8578 (1988), 0.8287 (1987)

:Tunisia Economy

Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Tunisia Communications

Railroads:
    2,115 km total; 465 km 1.435-meter (standard) gauge; 1,650 km 1.000-meter
    gauge
Highways:
    17,700 km total; 9,100 km bituminous; 8,600 km improved and unimproved earth
Pipelines:
    crude oil 797 km, petroleum products 86 km, natural gas 742 km
Ports:
    Bizerte, Gabes, Sfax, Sousse, Tunis, La Goulette, Zarzis
Merchant marine:
    21 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 160,069 GRT/218,791 DWT; includes 1
    short-sea passenger, 4 cargo, 2 roll-on/roll-off cargo, 2 petroleum tanker,
    6 chemical tanker, 1 liquefied gas, 5 bulk
Civil air:
    19 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    29 total, 26 usable; 13 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 7 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 7 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    the system is above the African average; facilities consist of open-wire
    lines, coaxial cable, and radio relay; key centers are Sfax, Sousse,
    Bizerte, and Tunis; 233,000 telephones; broadcast stations - 7 AM, 8 FM, 19
    TV; 5 submarine cables; satellite earth stations - 1 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT
    and 1 ARABSAT with back-up control station; coaxial cable to Algeria and
    Libya; radio relay to Algeria, and Libya

:Tunisia Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Navy, Air Force, paramilitary forces, National Guard
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 2,117,864; 1,217,819 fit for military service; 88,619 reach
    military age (20) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $520 million, 5% of GDP (1992 budget)

:Turkey Geography

Total area:
    780,580 km2
Land area:
    770,760 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than Texas
Land boundaries:
    2,627 km total; Armenia 268 km, Azerbaijan 9 km, Bulgaria 240 km, Georgia
    252 km, Greece 206 km, Iran 499 km, Iraq 331 km, Syria 822 km
Coastline:
    7,200 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive economic zone:
    in Black Sea only - to the maritime boundary agreed upon with the former
    USSR
  Territorial sea:
    6 nm in the Aegean Sea, 12 nm in Black Sea and Mediterranean Sea
Disputes:
    complex maritime and air (but not territorial) disputes with Greece in
    Aegean Sea; Cyprus question; Hatay question with Syria; ongoing dispute with
    downstream riparians (Syria and Iraq) over water development plans for the
    Tigris and Euphrates Rivers
Climate:
    temperate; hot, dry summers with mild, wet winters; harsher in interior
Terrain:
    mostly mountains; narrow coastal plain; high central plateau (Anatolia)
Natural resources:
    antimony, coal, chromium, mercury, copper, borate, sulphur, iron ore
Land use:
    arable land 30%; permanent crops 4%; meadows and pastures 12%; forest and
    woodland 26%; other 28%; includes irrigated 3%
Environment:
    subject to severe earthquakes, especially along major river valleys in west;
    air pollution; desertification
Note:
    strategic location controlling the Turkish straits (Bosporus, Sea of
    Marmara, Dardanelles) that link Black and Aegean Seas

:Turkey People

Population:
    59,640,143 (July 1992), growth rate 2.1% (1992)
Birth rate:
    27 births/1,000 populatition (1992)
Death rate:
    6 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    55 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    68 years male, 72 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    3.4 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Turk(s); adjective - Turkish
Ethnic divisions:
    Turkish 80%, Kurdish 17%, other 3% (est.)
Religions:
    Muslim (mostly Sunni) 99.8%, other (Christian and Jews) 0.2%
Languages:
    Turkish (official), Kurdish, Arabic
Literacy:
    81% (male 90%, female 71%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    20,700,000; agriculture 49%, services 30%, industry 15%; about 1,500,000
    Turks work abroad (1989)
Organized labor:
    10% of labor force

:Turkey Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Turkey
Type:
    republican parliamentary democracy
Capital:
    Ankara
Administrative divisions:
    73 provinces (iller, singular - il); Adana, Adiyaman, Afyon, Agri, Aksaray,
    Amasya, Ankara, Antalya, Artvin, Aydin, Balikesir, Batman, Bayburt, Bilecik,
    Bingol, Bitlis, Bolu, Burdur, Bursa, Canakkale, Cankiri, Corum, Denizli,
    Diyarbakir, Edirne, Elazig, Erzincan, Erzurum, Eskisehir, Gaziantep,
    Giresun, Gumushane, Hakkari, Hatay, Icel, Isparta, Istanbul, Izmir, Kahraman
    Maras, Karaman, Kars, Kastamonu, Kayseri, Kirikkale, Kirklareli, Kirsehir,
    Kocaeli, Konya, Kutahya, Malatya, Manisa, Mardin, Mugla, Mus, Nevsehir,
    Nigde, Ordu, Rize, Sakarya, Samsun, Siirt, Sinop, Sirnak, Sivas, Tekirdag,
    Tokat, Trabzon, Tunceli, Urfa, Usak, Van, Yozgat, Zonguldak
Independence:
    29 October 1923 (successor state to the Ottoman Empire)
Constitution:
    7 November 1982
Legal system:
    derived from various continental legal systems; accepts compulsory ICJ
    jurisdiction, with reservations
National holiday:
    Anniversary of the Declaration of the Republic, 29 October (1923)
Executive branch:
    president, Presidential Council, prime minister, deputy prime minister,
    Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Grand National Assembly (Buyuk Millet Meclisi)
Judicial branch:
    Court of Cassation
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Turgut OZAL (since 9 November 1989)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Suleyman DEMIREL (since 30 November 1991); Deputy Prime
    Minister Erdal INONU (since 30 November 1991)
Political parties and leaders:
    Correct Way Party (DYP), Suleyman DEMIREL; Motherland Party (ANAP), Mesut
    YILMAZ; Social Democratic Populist Party (SHP), Erdal INONU; Refah Party
    (RP), Necmettin ERBAKAN; Democratic Left Party (DSP), Bulent ECEVIT;
    Nationalist Labor Party (MCP), Alpaslan TURKES; People's Labor Party (HEP),
    Feridun YAZAR; Socialist Unity Party (SBP), leader NA; Great Anatolia Party
    (BAP), leader NA; Democratic Center Party (DSP), Bedrettin DALAN; Grand
    National Party (GNP), leader NA
Suffrage:
    universal at age 21
Elections:
  Grand National Assembly:
    last held 20 October 1991 (next to be held NA October 1996); results - DYP
    27.03%, ANAP 24.01%, SHP 20.75%, RP 16.88%, DSP 10.75%, SBP 0.44%,
    independent 0.14%; seats - (450 total) DYP 178, ANAP 115, SHP 86, RP 40, MCP
    19, DSP 7, other 5

:Turkey Government

Member of:
    AsDB, BIS, CCC, CE, CERN (observer), COCOM, CSCE, EBRD, ECE, FAO, GATT,
    IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, IDA, IDB, IEA, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO,
    INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, IOM (observer), ISO, ITU, LORCS, NATO, NEA, OECD,
    OIC, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIIMOG, UNRWA, UPU, WHO, WIPO,
    WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Nuzhet KANDEMIR; Chancery at 1606 23rd Street NW, Washington, DC;
    20008; telephone (202) 387-3200; there are Turkish Consulates General in
    Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, and New York
  US:
    Ambassador Richard C. BARKLEY; Embassy at 110 Ataturk Boulevard, Ankara
    (mailing address is PSC 88, Box 5000, Ankara, or APO AE 09823); telephone
    [90] (4) 126 54 70; FAX [90] (4) 167-0057; there are US Consulates General
    in Istanbul and Izmir, and a Consulate in Adana
Flag:
    red with a vertical white crescent (the closed portion is toward the hoist
    side) and white five-pointed star centered just outside the crescent opening

:Turkey Economy

Overview:
    The impressive stream of benefits from the economic reforms that Turkey
    launched in 1980 have begun to peter out. Although real growth in per capita
    GDP averaged 5% annually between 1983 and 1988, recent economic performance
    has fallen substantially. Moreover, inflation and interest rates remain
    high, and a large budget deficit will continue to provide difficulties for a
    country undergoing a substantial transformation from a centrally controlled
    to a free market economy. Agriculture remains an important economic sector,
    employing about half of the work force, accounting for 18% of GDP, and
    contributing 19% to exports. The government has launched a
    multibillion-dollar development program in the southeastern region, which
    includes the building of a dozen dams on the Tigris and Euphrates Rivers to
    generate electric power and irrigate large tracts of farmland. The planned
    tapping of huge additional quantities of Euphrates water has raised serious
    concern in the downstream riparian nations of Syria and Iraq. The Turkish
    economy emerged from the Gulf War of early 1991 in stronger shape than
    Ankara had expected. Although the negative effects of the crisis were felt
    primarily in the politically sensitive southeast, aid pledges by the
    coalition allies of more than $4 billion have helped offset the burden.
GDP:
    purchasing power equivalent - $198 billion, per capita $3,400; real growth
    rate 1.5% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    71.1% (1991)
Unemployment rate:
    11.1% (1991 est.)
Budget:
    revenues $41.9 billion; expenditures $49.7 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $9.9 billion (1992)
Exports:
    $13.0 billion (f.o.b., 1990)
  commodities:
    industrial products (steel, chemicals) 81%; fruits, vegetables, tobacco and
    meat products 19%
  partners:
    EC countries 49%, US 7%, Iran 5%
Imports:
    $22.3 billion (c.i.f., 1990)
  commodities:
    crude oil, machinery, transport equipment, metals, chemicals,
    pharmaceuticals, dyes, plastics, rubber, fertilizers, grain
  partners:
    EC countries 49%, US 7%, Iran 5%
External debt:
    $49.0 billion (1990)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 10% (1990 est.); accounts for 29% of GDP
Electricity:
    14,400,000 kW capacity; 44,000 million kWh produced, 750 kWh per capita
    (1991)
Industries:
    textiles, food processing, mining (coal, chromite, copper, boron minerals),
    steel, petroleum, construction, lumber, paper
Agriculture:
    accounts for 18% of GDP and employs about half of working force; products -
    tobacco, cotton, grain, olives, sugar beets, pulses, citrus fruit, variety
    of animal products; self-sufficient in food most years

:Turkey Economy

Illicit drugs:
    one of the world's major suppliers of licit opiate products; government
    maintains strict controls over areas of opium poppy cultivation and output
    of poppy straw concentrate
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $2.3 billion; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $10.1 billion; OPEC
    bilateral aid (1979-89), $665 million; Communist countries (1970-89), $4.5
    billion; note - aid for Persian Gulf war efforts from coalition allies
    (1991), $4.1 billion; aid pledged for Turkish Defense Fund, $2.5 billion
Currency:
    Turkish lira (plural - liras); 1 Turkish lira (TL) = 100 kurus
Exchange rates:
    Turkish liras (TL) per US$1 - 6,098.4 (March 1992), 4,171.8 (1991), 2,608.6
    (1990), 2,121.7 (1989), 1,422.3 (1988), 857.2 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Turkey Communications

Railroads:
    8,401 km 1.435-meter gauge; 479 km electrified
Highways:
    49,615 km total; 26,915 km paved; 16,500 km gravel or crushed stone; 4,000
    km improved earth; 2,200 km unimproved earth (1985)
Inland waterways:
    about 1,200 km
Pipelines:
    crude oil 1,738 km, petroleum products 2,321 km, natural gas 708 km
Ports:
    Iskenderun, Istanbul, Mersin, Izmir
Merchant marine:
    353 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 4,056,455 GRT/7,143,096 DWT; includes
    7 short-sea passenger, 1 passenger-cargo, 191 cargo, 1 container, 5
    roll-on/roll-off cargo, 3 refrigerated cargo, 1 livestock carrier, 37
    petroleum tanker, 9 chemical tanker, 3 liquefied gas, 10 combination
    ore/oil, 1 specialized tanker, 80 bulk, 4 combination bulk
Civil air:
    52 major transport aircraft (1991)
Airports:
    109 total, 104 usable; 65 with permanent-surface runways; 3 with runways
    over 3,659 m; 30 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 27 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    fair domestic and international systems; trunk radio relay network; limited
    open wire network; 3,400,000 telephones; broadcast stations - 15 AM; 94 FM;
    357 TV; 1 satellite ground station operating in the INTELSAT (2 Atlantic
    Ocean) and EUTELSAT systems; 1 submarine cable

:Turkey Defense Forces

Branches:
    Land Forces, Navy (including Naval Air and Naval Infantry), Air Force, Coast
    Guard, Gendarmerie
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 15,274,591; 9,330,851 fit for military service; 597,814 reach
    military age (20) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $5.2 billion, 3-4% of GDP (1992 budget)

:Turkmenistan Geography

Total area:
    488,100 km2
Land area:
    488,100 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than California
Land boundaries:
    3,736 km total; Afghanistan 744 km, Iran 992 km, Kazakhstan 379 km,
    Uzbekistan 1,621 km
Coastline:
    0 km
  note:
    Turkmenistan does border the Caspian Sea (1,768 km)
Maritime claims:
    none - landlocked
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    subtropical desert
Terrain:
    flat-to-rolling sandy desert with dunes; borders Caspian Sea in west
Natural resources:
    petroleum, natural gas, coal, sulphur, salt, magnesium
Land use:
    NA% arable land; NA% permanent crops; NA% meadows and pastures; NA% forest
    and woodland; NA% other; includes NA% irrigated
Environment:
    NA
Note:
    landlocked

:Turkmenistan People

Population:
    3,838,108 (July 1992), growth rate 2.4% (1992)
Birth rate:
    36 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    9 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    -3 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    94 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    59 years male, 66 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    4.5 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Turkmen(s); adjective - Turkmen
Ethnic divisions:
    Turkmen 72%, Russian 9%, Uzbek 9%, other 10%
Religions:
    Islam 85%, Eastern Orthodox 10%, unknown 5%
Languages:
    Turkmen 72%, Russian 12%, Uzbek 9%, other 7%
Literacy:
    NA% (male NA%, female NA) age 15 and over can read and write
Labor force:
    1,542,000; agriculture and forestry 42%, industry and construction 21%,
    other 37% (1990)
Organized labor:
    NA

:Turkmenistan Government

Long-form name:
    none
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Ashgabat (Ashkhabad)
Administrative divisions:
    4 oblasts (oblastey, singular - oblast'); Balkan (Nebit-Dag), Chardzhou,
    Mary, Tashauz; note - the rayons around Ashgabat are under direct republic
    jurisdiction; all oblasts have the same name as their administrative center
    except Balkan Oblast, centered at Nebit-Dag
Independence:
    27 October 1991 (from the Soviet Union; formerly Turkmen Soviet Socialist
    Republic)
Constitution:
    adopted 18 May 1992
Legal system:
    NA
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 27 October (1991)
Executive branch:
    president, prime minister, two deputy prime ministers, Council of Ministers
Legislative branch:
    Majlis
Judicial branch:
    NA
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Saparmurad NIYAZOV (since 21 June 1992)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister (vacant), Deputy Prime Ministers V. G. OCHERTSOV and Atta
    CHARYYEV (since NA 1991)
Political parties and leaders:
    Democratic Party (formerly Communist), Saparmurad NIYAZOV, chairman
  opposition:
    Democratic Party, Durdymorad KHODZHA Mukhammed, chairman
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  President:
    last held 21 June 1992 (next to be held NA June 1997); results - Saparmurad
    NIYAZOV 99.5% (ran unopposed)
  Majlis:
    last held 7 January 1990 (next to be held NA 1995); results - percent of
    vote by party NA; seats - (175 total) elections not officially by party, but
    Communist Party members won nearly 90% of seats
Communists:
    renamed Democratic Party, 16 December 1990
Other political or pressure groups:
    Agzybirlik (Unity) Movement
Member of:
    CIS, CSCE, IBRD, IMF, NACC, UN, UNCTAD
Diplomatic representation:
    NA
  US:
    Ambassador-designate Joseph HULINGS; Embassy at Yubilenaya Hotel, Ashgabat
    (Ashkhabad) (mailing address is APO; AE 09862); telephone [8] (011)
    7-3630-24-49-08

:Turkmenistan Government

Flag:
    green field with five claret carpet gels (that is, a repeated carpet
    pattern) on the hoist side; a white crescent and five white stars in the
    upper left corner to the right of the carpet gels

:Turkmenistan Economy

Overview:
    Like the other 15 former Soviet republics, Turkmenistan faces enormous
    problems of economic adjustment - to move away from Moscow-based central
    planning toward a system of decisionmaking by private enterpreneurs, local
    government authorities, and, hopefully, foreign investors. This process
    requires wholesale changes in supply sources, markets, property rights, and
    monetary arrangements. Industry - with 10% of the labor force - is heavily
    weighted toward the energy sector, which produced 11% of the ex-USSR's gas
    and 1% of its oil. Turkmenistan ranked second among the former Soviet
    republics in cotton production, mainly in the irrigated western region,
    where the huge Karakumskiy Canal taps the Amu Darya.
GDP:
    purchasing power equivalent - NA, per capita $NA; real growth rate -0.6%
    (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    85% (1991)
Unemployment rate:
    20-25% (1991 est.)
Budget:
    NA
Exports:
    $239 million (1990)
  commodities:
    natural gas, oil, chemicals, cotton, textiles, carpets
  partners:
    Russia, Ukraine, Uzbekistan
Imports:
    $970 million (1990)
  commodities:
    machinery and parts, plastics and rubber, consumer durables, textiles
  partners:
    NA
External debt:
    $650 million (end of 1991 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 4.1% (1991)
Electricity:
    3,170,000 kW capacity; 14,900 million kWh produced, 4,114 kWh per capita
    (1990)
Industries:
    oil and gas, petrochemicals, fertilizers, food processing, textiles
Agriculture:
    cotton, fruits, vegetables
Illicit drugs:
    illicit producers of cannabis and opium; mostly for domestic consumption;
    status of government eradication programs unknown; used as transshipment
    points for illicit drugs to Western Europe
Economic aid:
    NA
Currency:
    As of May 1992, retaining ruble as currency
Exchange rates:
    NA
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Turkmenistan Communications

Railroads:
    2,120 km all 1.520-meter gauge
Highways:
    23,000 km total (1990); 18,300 km hard surfaced, 4,700 km earth
Inland waterways:
    NA km
Pipelines:
    NA
Ports:
    inland - Krasnovodsk
Civil air:
    NA
Airports:
    NA
Telecommunications:
    poorly developed; telephone density NA; linked by landline or microwave to
    other CIS member states and Iran, and by leased connections via the Moscow
    international gateway switch to other countries; satellite earth stations -
    Orbita and INTELSAT (TV receive only)

:Turkmenistan Defense Forces

Branches:
    Republic Security Forces (internal and border troops), National Guard; CIS
    Forces (Ground, Air and Air Defense)
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, NA; NA fit for military service; NA reach military age (18)
    annually
Defense expenditures:
    $NA, NA% of GDP

:Turks and Caicos Islands Geography

Total area:
    430 km2
Land area:
    430 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly less than 2.5 times the size of Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    389 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive fishing zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    tropical; marine; moderated by trade winds; sunny and relatively dry
Terrain:
    low, flat limestone; extensive marshes and mangrove swamps
Natural resources:
    spiny lobster, conch
Land use:
    arable land 2%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures; 0%; forest and
    woodland 0%; other 98%
Environment:
    30 islands (eight inhabited); subject to frequent hurricanes
Note:
    located 190 km north of the Dominican Republic in the North Atlantic Ocean

:Turks and Caicos Islands People

Population:
    12,697 (July 1992), growth rate 3.3% (1992)
Birth rate:
    16 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    5 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    22 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    13 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    73 years male, 77 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    2.3 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    no noun or adjectival forms
Ethnic divisions:
    majority of African descent
Religions:
    Baptist 41.2%, Methodist 18.9%, Anglican 18.3%, Seventh-Day Adventist 1.7%,
    other 19.9% (1980)
Languages:
    English (official)
Literacy:
    98% (male 99%, female 98%) age 15 and over having ever attended school
    (1970)
Labor force:
    NA; majority engaged in fishing and tourist industries; some subsistence
    agriculture
Organized labor:
    Saint George's Industrial Trade Union

:Turks and Caicos Islands Government

Long-form name:
    none
Type:
    dependent territory of the UK
Capital:
    Grand Turk (Cockburn Town)
Administrative divisions:
    none (dependent territory of the UK)
Independence:
    none (dependent territory of the UK)
Constitution:
    introduced 30 August 1976, suspended in 1986, and a Constitutional
    Commission is currently reviewing its contents
Legal system:
    based on laws of England and Wales with a small number adopted from Jamaica
    and The Bahamas
National holiday:
    Constitution Day, 30 August (1976)
Executive branch:
    British monarch, governor, Executive Council, chief minister
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Legislative Council
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1953), represented by Governor Michael
    J. BRADLEY (since 1987)
  Head of Government:
    Chief Minister Washington MISSIC (since NA 1991)
Political parties and leaders:
    People's Democratic Movement (PDM), Oswald SKIPPINGS; Progressive National
    Party (PNP), Washington MISSIC; National Democratic Alliance (NDA), Ariel
    MISSICK
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  Legislative Council:
    last held on 3 April 1991 (next to be held NA); results - percent of vote by
    party NA; seats - (20 total, 13 elected) PNP 8, PDM 5
Member of:
    CDB
Diplomatic representation:
    as a dependent territory of the UK, the interests of the Turks and Caicos
    Islands are represented in the US by the UK
  US:
    none
Flag:
    blue with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side quadrant and the
    colonial shield centered on the outer half of the flag; the shield is yellow
    and contains a conch shell, lobster, and cactus

:Turks and Caicos Islands Economy

Overview:
    The economy is based on fishing, tourism, and offshore banking. Only
    subsistence farming - corn and beans - exists on the Caicos Islands, so that
    most foods, as well as nonfood products, must be imported.
GDP:
    purchasing power equivalent - $44.9 million, per capita $5,000; real growth
    rate NA% (1986)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    NA%
Unemployment rate:
    12% (1989)
Budget:
    revenues $12.4 million; expenditures $15.8 million, including capital
    expenditures of $2.6 million (FY87)
Exports:
    $2.9 million (f.o.b., FY84)
  commodities:
    lobster, dried and fresh conch, conch shells
  partners:
    US, UK
Imports:
    $26.3 million (c.i.f., FY84)
  commodities:
    foodstuffs, drink, tobacco, clothing
  partners:
    US, UK
External debt:
    $NA
Industrial production:
    growth rate NA%
Electricity:
    9,050 kW capacity; 11.1 million kWh produced, 1,140 kWh per capita (1990)
Industries:
    fishing, tourism, offshore financial services
Agriculture:
    subsistence farming prevails, based on corn and beans; fishing more
    important than farming; not self-sufficient in food
Economic aid:
    Western (non-US) countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89),
    $110 million
Currency:
    US currency is used
Exchange rates:
    US currency is used
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Turks and Caicos Islands Communications

Highways:
    121 km, including 24 km tarmac
Ports:
    Grand Turk, Salt Cay, Providenciales, Cockburn Harbour
Civil air:
    Air Turks and Caicos (passenger service) and Turks Air Ltd. (cargo service)
Airports:
    7 total, 7 usable; 4 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways over
    2,439 m; 4 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    fair cable and radio services; 1,446 telephones; broadcast stations - 3 AM,
    no FM, several TV; 2 submarine cables; 1 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT earth
    station

:Turks and Caicos Islands Defense Forces

Note:
    defense is the responsibility of the UK

:Tuvalu Geography

Total area:
    26 km2
Land area:
    26 km2
Comparative area:
    about 0.1 times the size of Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    24 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    tropical; moderated by easterly trade winds (March to November); westerly
    gales and heavy rain (November to March)
Terrain:
    very low-lying and narrow coral atolls
Natural resources:
    fish
Land use:
    arable land 0%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 0%; forest and
    woodland 0%; other 100%
Environment:
    severe tropical storms are rare
Note:
    located 3,000 km east of Papua New Guinea in the South Pacific Ocean

:Tuvalu People

Population:
    9,494 (July 1992), growth rate 1.8% (1992)
Birth rate:
    28 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    9 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    34 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    61 years male, 64 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    3.1 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Tuvaluans(s); adjective - Tuvaluan
Ethnic divisions:
    96% Polynesian
Religions:
    Church of Tuvalu (Congregationalist) 97%, Seventh-Day Adventist 1.4%, Baha'i
    1%, other 0.6%
Languages:
    Tuvaluan, English
Literacy:
    NA% (male NA%, female NA%)
Labor force:
    NA
Organized labor:
    none

:Tuvalu Government

Long-form name:
    none
Type:
    democracy
Capital:
    Funafuti
Administrative divisions:
    none
Independence:
    1 October 1978 (from UK; formerly Ellice Islands)
Constitution:
    1 October 1978
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 1 October (1978)
Executive branch:
    British monarch, governor general, prime minister, deputy prime minister,
    Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Parliament (Palamene)
Judicial branch:
    High Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952), represented by Governor General
    Tupua LEUPENA (since 1 March 1986)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Bikenibeu PAENIU (since 16 October 1989); Deputy Prime
    Minister Dr. Alesana SELUKA (since October 1989)
Political parties and leaders:
    none
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  Parliament:
    last held 28 September 1989 (next to be held by NA September 1993); results
    - percent of vote NA; seats - (12 total)
Member of:
    ACP, C (special), ESCAP, SPC, SPF, UPU
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador (vacant)
  US:
    none
Flag:
    light blue with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side quadrant; the
    outer half of the flag represents a map of the country with nine yellow
    five-pointed stars symbolizing the nine islands

:Tuvalu Economy

Overview:
    Tuvalu consists of a scattered group of nine coral atolls with poor soil.
    The country has no known mineral resources and few exports. Subsistence
    farming and fishing are the primary economic activities. The islands are too
    small and too remote for development of a tourist industry. Government
    revenues largely come from the sale of stamps and coins and worker
    remittances. Substantial income is received annually from an international
    trust fund established in 1987 by Australia, New Zealand, and the UK and
    supported also by Japan and South Korea.
GNP:
    exchange rate conversion - $4.6 million, per capita $530; real growth rate
    NA% (1989 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    3.9% (1984)
Unemployment rate:
    NA%
Budget:
    revenues $4.3 million; expenditures $4.3 million, including capital
    expenditures of $NA (1989)
Exports:
    $1.0 million (f.o.b., 1983 est.)
  commodities:
    copra
  partners:
    Fiji, Australia, NZ
Imports:
    $2.8 million (c.i.f., 1983 est.)
  commodities:
    food, animals, mineral fuels, machinery, manufactured goods
  partners:
    Fiji, Australia, NZ
External debt:
    $NA
Industrial production:
    growth rate NA
Electricity:
    2,600 kW capacity; 3 million kWh produced, 330 kWh per capita (1990)
Industries:
    fishing, tourism, copra
Agriculture:
    coconuts, copra
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-87), $1 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $101 million
Currency:
    Tuvaluan dollar and Australian dollar (plural - dollars); 1 Tuvaluan dollar
    ($T) or 1 Australian dollar ($A) = 100 cents
Exchange rates:
    Tuvaluan dollars ($T) or Australian dollars ($A) per US$1 - 1.3117 (March
    1992), 1.2835 (1991), 1.2799 (1990), 1.2618 (1989), 1.2752 (1988), 1.4267
    (1987)
Fiscal year:
    NA

:Tuvalu Communications

Highways:
    8 km gravel
Ports:
    Funafuti, Nukufetau
Merchant marine:
    1 passenger-cargo (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 1,043 GRT/450 DWT
Civil air:
    no major transport aircraft
Airports:
    1 with runway 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    broadcast stations - 1 AM, no FM, no TV; 300 radiotelephones; 4,000 radios;
    108 telephones

:Tuvalu Defense Forces

Branches:
    Police Force
Manpower availability:
    NA
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $NA, NA% of GNP

:Uganda Geography

Total area:
    236,040 km2
Land area:
    199,710 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than Oregon
Land boundaries:
    2,698 km total; Kenya 933 km, Rwanda 169 km, Sudan 435 km, Tanzania 396 km,
    Zaire 765 km
Coastline:
    none - landlocked
Maritime claims:
    none - landlocked
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    tropical; generally rainy with two dry seasons (December to February, June
    to August); semiarid in northeast
Terrain:
    mostly plateau with rim of mountains
Natural resources:
    copper, cobalt, limestone, salt
Land use:
    arable land 23%; permanent crops 9%; meadows and pastures 25%; forest and
    woodland 30%; other 13%; includes irrigated NEGL%
Environment:
    straddles Equator; deforestation; overgrazing; soil erosion
Note:
    landlocked

:Uganda People

Population:
    19,386,104 (July 1992), growth rate 3.7% (1992)
Birth rate:
    51 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    14 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    91 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    50 years male, 52 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    7.2 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Ugandan(s); adjective - Ugandan
Ethnic divisions:
    African 99%, European, Asian, Arab 1%
Religions:
    Roman Catholic 33%, Protestant 33%, Muslim 16%, rest indigenous beliefs
Languages:
    English (official); Luganda and Swahili widely used; other Bantu and Nilotic
    languages
Literacy:
    48% (male 62%, female 35%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    4,500,000 (est.); 50% of population of working age (1983)
Organized labor:
    125,000 union members

:Uganda Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Uganda
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Kampala
Administrative divisions:
    10 provinces; Busoga, Central, Eastern, Karamoja, Nile, North Buganda,
    Northern, South Buganda, Southern, Western
Independence:
    9 October 1962 (from UK)
Constitution:
    8 September 1967, in process of constitutional revision
Legal system:
    government plans to restore system based on English common law and customary
    law and reinstitute a normal judicial system; accepts compulsory ICJ
    jurisdiction, with reservations
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 9 October (1962)
Executive branch:
    president, vice president, prime minister, three deputy prime ministers,
    Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    unicameral National Resistance Council
Judicial branch:
    Court of Appeal, High Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Lt. Gen. Yoweri Kaguta MUSEVENI (since 29 January 1986); Vice
    President Samson Babi Mululu KISEKKA (since NA January 1991)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister George Cosmas ADYEBO (since NA January 1991)
Political parties and leaders:
    only party - National Resistance Movement (NRM); note - the Uganda Patriotic
    Movement (UPM), Ugandan People's Congress (UPC), Democratic Party (DP), and
    Conservative Party (CP) are all proscribed from conducting public political
    activities
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  National Resistance Council:
    last held 11-28 February 1989 (next to be held by January 1995); results -
    NRM was the only party; seats - (278 total, 210 indirectly elected) 210
    members elected without party affiliation
Other political or pressure groups:
    Uganda People's Front (UPF), Uganda People's Christian Democratic Army
    (UPCDA), Ruwenzori Movement
Member of:
    ACP, AfDB, C, CCC, EADB, ECA, FAO, G-77, GATT, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, IDA,
    IDB, IFAD, IFC, IGADD, ILO, IMF, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, ITU, LORCS, NAM,
    OAU, OIC, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Stephen Kapimpina KATENTA-APULI; 5909 16th Street NW, Washington,
    DC 20011; telephone (202) 726-7100 through 7102
  US:
    Ambassador Johnnie CARSON; Embassy at Parliament Avenue, Kampala (mailing
    address is P. O. Box 7007, Kampala); telephone [256] (41) 259792, 259793,
    259795

:Uganda Government

Flag:
    six equal horizontal bands of black (top), yellow, red, black, yellow, and
    red; a white disk is superimposed at the center and depicts a red-crested
    crane (the national symbol) facing the staff side

:Uganda Economy

Overview:
    Uganda has substantial natural resources, including fertile soils, regular
    rainfall, and sizable mineral deposits of copper and cobalt. The economy has
    been devastated by widespread political instability, mismanagement, and
    civil war since independence in 1962, keeping Uganda poor with a per capita
    income of about $300. (GDP remains below the levels of the early 1970s, as
    does industrial production.) Agriculture is the most important sector of the
    economy, employing over 80% of the work force. Coffee is the major export
    crop and accounts for the bulk of export revenues. Since 1986 the government
    has acted to rehabilitate and stabilize the economy by undertaking currency
    reform, raising producer prices on export crops, increasing petroleum
    prices, and improving civil service wages. The policy changes are especially
    aimed at dampening inflation, which was running at over 300% in 1987, and
    boosting production and export earnings. During the period 1990-91, the
    economy turned in a solid performance based on continued investment in the
    rehabilitation of infrastructure, improved incentives for production and
    exports, and gradually improving domestic security.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $5.6 billion, per capita $300; real growth rate
    4.5% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    35% (1991 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    NA%
Budget:
    revenues $365 million; expenditures $545 million, including capital
    expenditures of $165 million (FY89 est.)
Exports:
    $208 million (f.o.b., 1990)
  commodities:
    coffee 97%, cotton, tea
  partners:
    US 25%, UK 18%, France 11%, Spain 10%
Imports:
    $209 million (c.i.f., 1990)
  commodities:
    petroleum products, machinery, cotton piece goods, metals, transportation
    equipment, food
  partners:
    Kenya 25%, UK 14%, Italy 13%
External debt:
    $1.9 billion (1991 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 7.0% (1990); accounts for 5% of GDP
Electricity:
    175,000 kW capacity; 315 million kWh produced, 15 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    sugar, brewing, tobacco, cotton textiles, cement
Agriculture:
    mainly subsistence; accounts for 57% of GDP and over 80% of labor force;
    cash crops - coffee, tea, cotton, tobacco; food crops - cassava, potatoes,
    corn, millet, pulses; livestock products - beef, goat meat, milk, poultry;
    self-sufficient in food
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (1970-89), $145 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $1.4 billion; OPEC
    bilateral aid (1979-89), $60 million; Communist countries (1970-89), $169
    million

:Uganda Economy

Currency:
    Ugandan shilling (plural - shillings); 1 Ugandan shilling (USh) = 100 cents
Exchange rates:
    Ugandan shillings (USh) per US$1 - 1,031.3 (March 1992), 734.0 (1991),
    428.85 (1990), 223.1 (1989), 106.1 (1988), 42.8 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    1 July - 30 June

:Uganda Communications

Railroads:
    1,300 km, 1.000-meter-gauge single track
Highways:
    26,200 km total; 1,970 km paved; 5,849 km crushed stone, gravel, and
    laterite; remainder earth roads and tracks
Inland waterways:
    Lake Victoria, Lake Albert, Lake Kyoga, Lake George, Lake Edward; Victoria
    Nile, Albert Nile; principal inland water ports are at Jinja and Port Bell,
    both on Lake Victoria
Merchant marine:
    1 roll-on/roll-off (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 1,697 GRT
Civil air:
    6 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    35 total, 27 usable; 5 with permanent-surface runways; 1 with runways over
    3,659 m; 3 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 10 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    fair system with microwave and radio communications stations; broadcast
    stations - 10 AM, no FM, 9 TV; satellite communications ground stations - 1
    Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT

:Uganda Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Navy, Air Force
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, about 4,132,887; about 2,243,933 for military service
Defense expenditures:
    $NA, NA% of GDP

:Ukraine Geography

Total area:
    603,700 km2
Land area:
    603,700 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than Texas
Land boundaries:
    4,558 km total; Belarus 891 km, Czechoslovakia 90 km, Hungary 103 km,
    Moldova 939 km, Poland 428 km, Romania (southwest) 169 km, Romania (west)
    362 km, Russia 1,576 km
Coastline:
    2,782 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    NA nm
  Continental shelf:
    NA meter depth
  Exclusive fishing zone:
    NA nm
  Exclusive economic zone:
    NA nm
  Territorial sea:
    NA nm
Disputes:
    potential border disputes with Moldova and Romania in northern Bukovina and
    southern Odessa oblast
Climate:
    temperate continental; subtropical only on the southern Crimean coast;
    precipitation disproportionately distributed, highest in west and north,
    lesser in east and southeast; winters vary from cool along the Black Sea to
    cold farther inland; summers are warm across the greater part of the
    country, hot in the south
Terrain:
    most of Ukraine consists of fertile plains (steppes) and plateaux, mountains
    being found only in the west (the Carpathians), and in the Crimean peninsula
    in the extreme south
Natural resources:
    iron ore, coal, manganese, natural gas, oil, salt, sulphur, graphite,
    titanium, magnesium, kaolin, nickel, mercury, timber
Land use:
    56% arable land; 2% permanent crops; 12% meadows and pastures; NA% forest
    and woodland; 30% other; includes 3% irrigated
Environment:
    air and water pollution, deforestation, radiation contamination around
    Chernobyl nuclear plant
Note:
    strategic position at the crossroads between Europe and Asia; second largest
    country in Europe

:Ukraine People

Population:
    51,940,426 (July 1992), growth rate 0.2% (1992)
Birth rate:
    14 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    12 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    1 migrant/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    22 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    65 years male, 75 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    2.0 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Ukrainian(s); adjective - Ukrainian
Ethnic divisions:
    Ukrainian 73%, Russian 22%, Jewish 1%, other 4%
Religions:
    Ukrainian Autonomous Orthodox, Ukrainian Autocephalous Orthodox, Ukrainian
    Catholic (Uniate), Protestant, Jewish
Languages:
    Ukrainian, Russian, Romanian, Polish
Literacy:
    NA%
Labor force:
    25,277,000; industry and construction 41%, agriculture and forestry 19%,
    health, education, and culture 18%, trade and distribution 8%, transport and
    communication 7%, other 7% (1990)
Organized labor:
    NA

:Ukraine Government

Long-form name:
    none
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Kiev (Kyyiv)
Administrative divisions:
    24 oblasts (oblastey, singular - oblast') and 1 autonomous republic*
    (avtomnaya respublika); Chernigov, Cherkassy, Chernovtsy, Dnepropetrovsk,
    Donetsk, Ivano-Frankovsk, Khar'kov, Kherson, Khmel'nitskiy, Kiev,
    Kirovograd, Krym (Simferopol')*, Lugansk, L'vov, Nikolayev, Odessa, Poltava,
    Rovno, Sumy, Ternopol', Vinnitsa, Volyn' (Lutsk), Zakarpat (Uzhgorod),
    Zaporozh'ye, Zhitomir; note - an oblast usually has the same name as its
    administrative center (exceptions have the administrative center name
    following in parentheses)
Independence:
    24 August 1991; 1 December 1991 de facto from USSR; note - formerly the
    Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic in the Soviet Union
Constitution:
    currently being drafted
Legal system:
    based on civil law system; no judicial review of legislative acts
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 24 August (1991)
Executive branch:
    president, prime minister
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Supreme Council
Judicial branch:
    being organized
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Leonid M. KRAVCHUK (since 5 December 1991)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Vitol'd FOKIN (since 14 November 1991); two First Deputy
    Prime Ministers: Valentyn SYMONENKO and Konstantyn MASYK (since 21 May
    1991); two Deputy Prime Ministers: Oleh SLEPICHEV and Viktor SYTNYK (since
    21 May 1991)
Political parties and leaders:
    Ukrainian Republican Party, Levko LUKYANENKO, chairman; Green Party, Yuriy
    SHCHERBAK, chairman; Social Democratic Party, Andriy NOSENKO, chairman;
    Ukrainian Democratic Party, Yuriy BADZO, chairman; Democratic Rebirth Party,
    Oleksandr Volodymyr GRINEV, Oleksandr FILENKO, YEMETS, Miroslav POPOVICH,
    Sergei LYLYK, Oleksandr BAZYLYUK, Valeriy KHMELKO, leaders; People's Party
    of Ukraine, Leopold TABURYANSKIY, chairman; Peasant Democratic Party, Jerhiy
    PLACHYNDA, chairman; Ukrainian Socialist Party, Oleksandr MOROZ, chairman
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  President:
    last held 1 December 1991 (next to be held NA 1996); results - Leonid
    KRAVCHUK 61.59%, Vyacheslav CHERNOVIL 23.27%, Levko LUKYANENKO 4.49%,
    Volodymyr GRINEV 4.17%, Iher YUKHNOVSKY 1.74%, Leopold TABURYANSKIY 0.57%
  Supreme Council:
    last held 4 March 1990 (next scheduled for 1995, may be held earlier in late
    1992 or 1993); results - percent of vote by party NA; seats - (NA total)
    number of seats by party NA

:Ukraine Government

Communists:
    Communist Party of Ukraine was banned by decree of the Supreme Council on 30
    August 1991
Other political or pressure groups:
    Ukraninan People's Movement for Restructuring (RUKH)
Member of:
    CIS, CSCE, CE, ECE, IAEA, IMF, INMARSAT, IOC, ITU, NACC, PCA, UN, UNCTAD,
    UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Oleh H. BILORUS; Embassy at 1828 L Street, NW, Suite 711,
    Washington, DC 20036; telephone (202) 296-6960
  US:
    Ambassador Roman POPADIUK; Embassy at ;10 Vul. Yuriy Kotsubinskoho, Kiev
    (mailing address is APO AE 09862); telephone (044) 244-7349; FAX (044)
    244-7350
Flag:
    two horizontal bars of equal size: azure (sky blue) top half, golden yellow
    bottom half (represents grainfields under a blue sky)

:Ukraine Economy

Overview:
    Because of its size, geographic location, Slavic population, and rich
    resources, the loss of Ukraine was the final and most bitter blow to the
    Soviet leaders wishing to preserve some semblance of the old political,
    military, and economic power of the USSR. After Russia, the Ukrainian
    republic was far and away the most important economic component of the
    former Soviet Union producing more than three times the output of the
    next-ranking republic. Its fertile black soil generated more than one fourth
    of Soviet agricultural output, and its farms provided substantial quantities
    of meat, milk, grain and vegetables to other republics. Likewise, its
    well-developed and diversified heavy industry supplied equipment and raw
    materials to industrial and mining sites in other regions of the USSR. In
    early 1992 the continued wholesale disruption of economic ties and the lack
    of an institutional structure necessary to formulate and implement economic
    reforms preclude a near-term recovery of output.
GDP:
    $NA, per capita $NA; real growth rate -10% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    83% (1991 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    NA%
Budget:
    not finalized as of May 1992
Exports:
    $13.5 billion (1990)
  commodities:
    coal, electric power, ferrous and nonferrous metals, chemicals, machinery
    and transport equipment, grain, meat
  partners:
    Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan
Imports:
    $16.7 billion (1990)
  commodities:
    machinery and parts, transportation equipment, chemicals, textiles
  partners:
    none
    *** No entry for this item ***
External debt:
    $10.4 billion (end of 1991 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate -4.5% (1991)
Electricity:
    NA kW capacity; 298,000 million kWh produced, 5,758 kWh per capita (1990)
Industries:
    coal, electric power, ferrous and nonferrous metals, machinery and transport
    equipment, chemicals, food-processing
Agriculture:
    grain, vegetables, meat, milk
Illicit drugs:
    illicit producer of cannabis and opium; mostly for domestic consumption;
    status of government eradication programs unknown; used as transshipment
    points for illicit drugs to Western Europe
Economic aid:
    $NA

:Ukraine Economy

Currency:
    as of August 1992 using ruble and Ukrainian coupons as legal tender; Ukraine
    plans to withdraw the ruble from circulation and convert to a coupon-based
    economy on 1 October 1992; Ukrainian officials claim this will be an interim
    move toward introducing a Ukrainian currency - the hryvnya - possibly as
    early as January 1993
Exchange rates:
    NA
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Ukraine Communications

Railroads:
    22,800 km all 1.500-meter gauge; does not include industrial lines (1990)
Highways:
    273,700 km total (1990); 236,400 km hard surfaced, 37,300 km earth
Inland waterways:
    NA km perennially navigable
Pipelines:
    NA
Ports:
    maritime - Berdyansk, Il'ichevsk Kerch', Kherson, Mariupol' (formerly
    Zhdanov), Nikolayev, Odessa, Sevastopol', Yuzhnoye; inland - Kiev
Merchant marine:
    338 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 4,117,595 GRT/5,403,685 DWT; includes
    221 cargo, 11 container, 9 barge carriers, 59 bulk cargo, 9 petroleum
    tanker, 2 chemical tanker, 3 liquefied gas, 24 passenger
Civil air:
    NA major transport aircraft
Airports:
    NA
Telecommunications:
    inheriting part of the former USSR system, Ukraine has about 7 million
    telephone lines (13.5 telephones for each 100 persons); as of 31 January
    1990, 3.56 million applications for telephones could not be satisfied;
    international calls can be made via satellite, by landline to other CIS
    countries, and through the Moscow international switching center; satellite
    earth stations employ INTELSAT, INMARSAT, and Intersputnik

:Ukraine Defense Forces

Branches:
    Republic Security Forces (internal and border troops), National Guard; CIS
    Forces (Ground Navy, Air, and Defense)
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, NA; NA fit for military service; NA reach military age (18)
    annually
Defense expenditures:
    $NA, NA% of GDP

:United Arab Emirates Geography

Total area:
    83,600 km2
Land area:
    83,600 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than Maine
Land boundaries:
    1,016 km total; Oman 410 km, Saudi Arabia 586 km, Qatar 20 km
Coastline:
    1,448 km
Maritime claims:
  Continental shelf:
    defined by bilateral boundaries or equidistant line
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    3 nm (assumed), 12 nm for Ash Shariqah (Sharjah)
Disputes:
    boundary with Qatar is unresolved; no defined boundary with Saudi Arabia; no
    defined boundary with most of Oman, but Administrative Line in far north;
    claims two islands in the Persian Gulf occupied by Iran (Jazireh-ye Tonb-e
    Bozorg or Greater Tunb, and Jazireh-ye Tonb-e Kuchek or Lesser Tunb); claims
    island in the Persian Gulf jointly administered with Iran (Jazireh-ye Abu
    Musa or Abu Musa,)
Climate:
    desert; cooler in eastern mountains
Terrain:
    flat, barren coastal plain merging into rolling sand dunes of vast desert
    waste- land; mountains in east
Natural resources:
    crude oil and natural gas
Land use:
    arable land NEGL%; permanent crops NEGL%; meadows and pastures 2%; forest
    and woodland NEGL%; other 98%; includes irrigated NEGL%
Environment:
    frequent dust and sand storms; lack of natural freshwater resources being
    overcome by desalination plants; desertification
Note:
    strategic location along southern approaches to Strait of Hormuz, a vital
    transit point for world crude oil

:United Arab Emirates People

Population:
    2,522,315 (July 1992), growth rate 5.4% (1992)
Birth rate:
    29 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    3 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    27 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    23 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    70 years male, 74 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    4.7 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Emirian(s), adjective - Emirian
Ethnic divisions:
    Emirian 19%, other Arab 23%, South Asian (fluctuating) 50%, other
    expatriates (includes Westerners and East Asians) 8%; less than 20% of the
    population are UAE citizens (1982)
Religions:
    Muslim 96% (Shi`a 16%); Christian, Hindu, and other 4%
Languages:
    Arabic (official); Persian and English widely spoken in major cities; Hindi,
    Urdu
Literacy:
    68% (male 70%, female 63%) age 10 and over but definition of literacy not
    available (1980)
Labor force:
    580,000 (1986 est.); industry and commerce 85%, agriculture 5%, services 5%,
    government 5%; 80% of labor force is foreign
Organized labor:
    trade unions are illegal

:United Arab Emirates Government

Long-form name:
    United Arab Emirates (no short-form name); abbreviated UAE
Type:
    federation with specified powers delegated to the UAE central government and
    other powers reserved to member emirates
Capital:
    Abu Dhabi
Administrative divisions:
    7 emirates (imarat, singular - imarah); Abu Zaby (Abu Dhabi), `Ajman, Al
    Fujayrah, Ash Shariqah, Dubayy, Ra's al Khaymah, Umm al Qaywayn
Independence:
    2 December 1971 (from UK; formerly Trucial States)
Constitution:
    2 December 1971 (provisional)
Legal system:
    secular codes are being introduced by the UAE Government and in several
    member shaykhdoms; Islamic law remains influential
National holiday:
    National Day, 2 December (1971)
Executive branch:
    president, vice president, Supreme Council of Rulers, prime minister, deputy
    prime minister, Council of Ministers
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Federal National Council (Majlis Watani Itihad)
Judicial branch:
    Union Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Shaykh Zayid bin Sultan Al NUHAYYAN, (since 2 December 1971),
    ruler of Abu Dhabi; Vice President Shaykh Maktum bin Rashid al-MAKTUM (since
    8 October 1990), ruler of Dubayy
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Shaykh Maktum bin Rashid al-MAKTUM (since 8 October 1990),
    ruler of Dubayy; Deputy Prime Minister Sultan bin Zayid Al NUHAYYAN (since
    20 November 1990)
Political parties and leaders:
    none
Suffrage:
    none
Elections:
    none
Other political or pressure groups:
    a few small clandestine groups may be active
Member of:
    ABEDA, AFESD, AL, AMF, CAEU, CCC, ESCWA, FAO, G-77, GCC, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
    IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INMARSAT, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, ISO
    (correspondent), ITU, LORCS, NAM, OAPEC, OIC, OPEC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
    UNIDO, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Muhammad bin Husayn Al SHAALI; Chancery at Suite 740, 600 New
    Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20037; telephone (202) 338-6500
  US:
    Ambassador Edward S. WALKER, Jr.; Embassy at Al-Sudan Street, Abu Dhabi
    (mailing address is P. O. Box 4009, Abu Dhabi); telephone [971] (2) 336691,
    afterhours 338730; FAX [971] (2) 318441; there is a US Consulate General in
    Dubayy (Dubai)
Flag:
    three equal horizontal bands of green (top), white, and black with a thicker
    vertical red band on the hoist side

:United Arab Emirates Economy

Overview:
    The UAE has an open economy with one of the world's highest incomes per
    capita outside the OECD nations. This wealth is based on oil and gas, and
    the fortunes of the economy fluctuate with the prices of those commodities.
    Since 1973, when petroleum prices shot up, the UAE has undergone a profound
    transformation from an impoverished region of small desert principalities to
    a modern state with a high standard of living. At present levels of
    production, crude oil reserves should last for over 100 years.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $33.7 billion, per capita $14,100 (1990); real
    growth rate 11% (1989)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    5.5% (1990 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    NEGL (1988)
Budget:
    revenues $3.8 billion; expenditures $3.7 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $NA (1989 est.)
Exports:
    $21.3 billion (f.o.b., 1990 est.)
  commodities:
    crude oil 65%, natural gas, reexports, dried fish, dates
  partners:
    Japan 35%, Singapore 6%, US 4%, Korea 3%
Imports:
    $11.0 billion (f.o.b., 1990 est.)
  commodities:
    food, consumer and capital goods
  partners:
    Japan 14%, UK 10%, US 9%, Germany 9%
External debt:
    $11.0 billion (December 1989 est.)
Industrial production:
    NA
Electricity:
    5,800,000 kW capacity; 17,000 million kWh produced, 7,115 kWh per capita
    (1991)
Industries:
    petroleum, fishing, petrochemicals, construction materials, some boat
    building, handicrafts, pearling
Agriculture:
    accounts for 2% of GDP and 5% of labor force; cash crop - dates; food
    products - vegetables, watermelons, poultry, eggs, dairy, fish; only 25%
    self-sufficient in food
Economic aid:
    donor - pledged $9.1 billion in bilateral aid to less developed countries
    (1979-89)
Currency:
    Emirian dirham (plural - dirhams); 1 Emirian dirham (Dh) = 100 fils
Exchange rates:
    Emirian dirhams (Dh) per US$1 - 3.6710 (fixed rate)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:United Arab Emirates Communications

Highways:
    2,000 km total; 1,800 km bituminous, 200 km gravel and graded earth
Pipelines:
    crude oil 830 km, natural gas, including natural gas liquids, 870 km
Ports:
    Al Fujayrah, Khawr Fakkan, Mina' Jabal `Ali, Mina' Khalid, Mina' Rashid,
    Mina' Saqr, Mina' Zayid
Merchant marine:
    55 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 1,033,866 GRT/1,772,646 DWT; includes
    18 cargo, 8 container, 3 roll-on/roll-off, 20 petroleum tanker, 4 bulk, 1
    refrigerated cargo, 1 vehicle carrier
Civil air:
    10 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    37 total, 34 usable; 20 with permanent-surface runways; 7 with runways over
    3,659 m; 5 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 5 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    adequate system of microwave and coaxial cable; key centers are Abu Dhabi
    and Dubayy; 386,600 telephones; broadcast stations - 8 AM, 3 FM, 12 TV;
    satellite communications ground stations - 1 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT, 2
    Indian Ocean INTELSAT and 1 ARABSAT; submarine cables to Qatar, Bahrain,
    India, and Pakistan; tropospheric scatter to Bahrain; microwave to Saudi
    Arabia

:United Arab Emirates Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Navy, Air Force, Federal Police Force
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 974,288; 533,673 fit for military service
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $1.47 billion, 5.3% of GDP (1989 est.)

:United Kingdom Geography

Total area:
    244,820 km2
Land area:
    241,590 km2; includes Rockall and Shetland Islands
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than Oregon
Land boundaries:
    360 km; Ireland 360 km
Coastline:
    12,429 km
Maritime claims:
  Continental shelf:
    as defined in continental shelf orders or in accordance with agreed upon
    boundaries
  Exclusive fishing zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    Northern Ireland question with Ireland; Gibraltar question with Spain;
    Argentina claims Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas); Argentina claims South
    Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands; Mauritius claims island of Diego
    Garcia in British Indian Ocean Territory; Rockall continental shelf dispute
    involving Denmark, Iceland, and Ireland (Ireland and the UK have signed a
    boundary agreement in the Rockall area); territorial claim in Antarctica
    (British Antarctic Territory)
Climate:
    temperate; moderated by prevailing southwest winds over the North Atlantic
    Current; more than half of the days are overcast
Terrain:
    mostly rugged hills and low mountains; level to rolling plains in east and
    southeast
Natural resources:
    coal, crude oil, natural gas, tin, limestone, iron ore, salt, clay, chalk,
    gypsum, lead, silica
Land use:
    arable land 29%; permanent crops NEGL%; meadows and pastures 48%; forest and
    woodland 9%; other 14%; includes irrigated 1%
Environment:
    pollution control measures improving air, water quality; because of heavily
    indented coastline, no location is more than 125 km from tidal waters
Note:
    lies near vital North Atlantic sea lanes; only 35 km from France and now
    being linked by tunnel under the English Channel

:United Kingdom People

Population:
    57,797,514 (July 1992), growth rate 0.3% (1992)
Birth rate:
    14 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    11 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    NEGL migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    8 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    73 years male, 79 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    1.8 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Briton(s), British (collective pl.); adjective - British
Ethnic divisions:
    English 81.5%, Scottish 9.6%, Irish 2.4%, Welsh 1.9%, Ulster 1.8%, West
    Indian, Indian, Pakistani, and other 2.8%
Religions:
    Anglican 27.0 million, Roman Catholic 5.3 million, Presbyterian 2.0 million,
    Methodist 760,000, Jewish 410,000
Languages:
    English, Welsh (about 26% of population of Wales), Scottish form of Gaelic
    (about 60,000 in Scotland)
Literacy:
    99% (male NA%, female NA%) age 15 and over can read and write (1978 est.)
Labor force:
    26,177,000; services 60.6%, manufacturing and construction 27.2%, government
    8.9%, energy 2.1%, agriculture 1.2% (June 1991)
Organized labor:
    40% of labor force (1991)

:United Kingdom Government

Long-form name:
    United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland; abbreviated UK
Type:
    constitutional monarchy
Capital:
    London
Administrative divisions:
    47 counties, 7 metropolitan counties, 26 districts, 9 regions, and 3 islands
    areas
  England:
    39 counties, 7 metropolitan counties*; Avon, Bedford, Berkshire, Buckingham,
    Cambridge, Cheshire, Cleveland, Cornwall, Cumbria, Derby, Devon, Dorset,
    Durham, East Sussex, Essex, Gloucester, Greater London*, Greater
    Manchester*, Hampshire, Hereford and Worcester, Hertford, Humberside, Isle
    of Wight, Kent, Lancashire, Leicester, Lincoln, Merseyside*, Norfolk,
    Northampton, Northumberland, North Yorkshire, Nottingham, Oxford,
    Shropshire, Somerset, South Yorkshire*, Stafford, Suffolk, Surrey, Tyne and
    Wear*, Warwick, West Midlands*, West Sussex, West Yorkshire*, Wiltshire
  Northern Ireland:
    26 districts; Antrim, Ards, Armagh, Ballymena, Ballymoney, Banbridge,
    Belfast, Carrickfergus, Castlereagh, Coleraine, Cookstown, Craigavon, Down,
    Dungannon, Fermanagh, Larne, Limavady, Lisburn, Londonderry, Magherafelt,
    Moyle, Newry and Mourne, Newtownabbey, North Down, Omagh, Strabane
  Scotland:
    9 regions, 3 islands areas*; Borders, Central, Dumfries and Galloway, Fife,
    Grampian, Highland, Lothian, Orkney*, Shetland*, Strathclyde, Tayside,
    Western Isles*
  Wales:
    8 counties; Clwyd, Dyfed, Gwent, Gwynedd, Mid Glamorgan, Powys, South
    Glamorgan, West Glamorgan
Independence:
    1 January 1801, United Kingdom established
Constitution:
    unwritten; partly statutes, partly common law and practice
Dependent areas:
    Anguilla, Bermuda, British Indian Ocean Territory, British Virgin Islands,
    Cayman Islands, Falkland Islands, Gibraltar, Guernsey, Hong Kong, Jersey,
    Isle of Man, Montserrat, Pitcairn Islands, Saint Helena, South Georgia and
    the South Sandwich Islands, Turks and Caicos Islands
Legal system:
    common law tradition with early Roman and modern continental influences; no
    judicial review of Acts of Parliament; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction,
    with reservations
National holiday:
    Celebration of the Birthday of the Queen (second Saturday in June)
Executive branch:
    monarch, prime minister, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    bicameral Parliament consists of an upper house or House of Lords and a
    lower house or House of Commons
Judicial branch:
    House of Lords
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952); Heir Apparent Prince CHARLES
    (son of the Queen, born 14 November 1948)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister John MAJOR (since 28 November 1990)

:United Kingdom Government

Political parties and leaders:
    Conservative and Unionist Party, John MAJOR; Labor Party, John SMITH;
    Liberal Democrats (LD), Jeremy (Paddy) ASHDOWN; Scottish National Party,
    Alex SALMOND; Welsh National Party (Plaid Cymru), Dafydd Iwan WIGLEY; Ulster
    Unionist Party (Northern Ireland), James MOLYNEAUX; Democratic Unionist
    Party (Northern Ireland), Rev. Ian PAISLEY; Ulster Popular Unionist Party
    (Northern Ireland), James KILFEDDER; Social Democratic and Labor Party
    (SDLP, Northern Ireland), John HUME; Sinn Fein (Northern Ireland), Gerry
    ADAMS; Alliance Party (Northern Ireland), John ALDERDICE; Democratic Left,
    Nina TEMPLE
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  House of Commons:
    last held 9 April 1992 (next to be held by NA April 1997); results -
    Conservative 41.9%, Labor 34.5%, Liberal Democratic 17.9%, other 5.7%; seats
    - (651 total) Conservative 336, Labor 271, Liberal Democratic 20, other 24
Communists:
    15,961
Other political or pressure groups:
    Trades Union Congress, Confederation of British Industry, National Farmers'
    Union, Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament
Member of:
    AfDB, AG (observer), AsDB, BIS, C, CCC, CDB, CE, CERN, COCOM, CP, CSCE,
    EBRD, EC, ECA (associate), ECE, ECLAC, EIB, ESCAP, ESA, FAO, G-5, G-7, G-10,
    GATT, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF,
    IMO, INMARSAT, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, IOM (observer), ISO, ITU, LORCS,
    NATO, NEA, OECD, PCA, SPC, UN, UNCTAD, UNFICYP, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNRWA, UN
    Security Council, UN Trusteeship Council, UPU, WCL, WEU, WHO, WIPO, WMO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Sir Robin RENWICK; Chancery at 3100 Massachusetts Avenue NW,
    Washington, DC 20008; telephone (202) 462-1340; there are British Consulates
    General in Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Cleveland, Houston, Los Angeles, New
    York, and San Francisco, and Consulates in Dallas, Miami, and Seattle
  US:
    Ambassador Raymond G. H. SEITZ; Embassy at 24/31 Grosvenor Square, London,
    W.1A1AE, (mailing address is FPO AE 09498-4040); telephone [44] (71)
    499-9000; FAX 409-1637; there are US Consulates General in Belfast and
    Edinburgh
Flag:
    blue with the red cross of Saint George (patron saint of England) edged in
    white superimposed on the diagonal red cross of Saint Patrick (patron saint
    of Ireland) which is superimposed on the diagonal white cross of Saint
    Andrew (patron saint of Scotland); known as the Union Flag or Union Jack;
    the design and colors (especially the Blue Ensign) have been the basis for a
    number of other flags including dependencies, Commonwealth countries, and
    others
Note:
    Hong Kong is scheduled to become a Special Administrative Region of China in
    1997

:United Kingdom Economy

Overview:
    The UK is one of the world's great trading powers and financial centers, and
    its economy ranks among the four largest in Europe. The economy is
    essentially capitalistic with a generous admixture of social welfare
    programs and government ownership. Prime Minister MAJOR has continued the
    basic thrust of THATCHER's efforts to halt the expansion of welfare measures
    and promote extensive reprivatization of the government economic sector.
    Agriculture is intensive, highly mechanized, and efficient by European
    standards, producing about 60% of food needs with only 1% of the labor
    force. Industry is a mixture of public and private enterprises, employing
    about 27% of the work force and generating 22% of GDP. The UK is an
    energy-rich nation with large coal, natural gas, and oil reserves; primary
    energy production accounts for 12% of GDP, one of the highest shares of any
    industrial nation. In mid-1990 the economy fell into recession after eight
    years of strong economic expansion, which had raised national output by one
    quarter. Britain's inflation rate, which has been consistently well above
    those of her major trading partners, declined significantly in 1991. Between
    1986 and 1990 unemployment fell from 11% to about 6%, but crept back up to
    8% in 1991 because of the economic slowdown. As a major trading nation, the
    UK will continue to be greatly affected by world boom or recession, swings
    in the international oil market, productivity trends in domestic industry,
    and the terms on which the economic integration of Europe proceeds.
GDP:
    purchasing power equivalent - $915.5 billion, per capita $15,900; real
    growth rate -1.9% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    5.8% (1991)
Unemployment rate:
    8.1% (1991)
Budget:
    revenues $435 billion; expenditures $469 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $NA (FY92 est.)
Exports:
    $186.4 billion (f.o.b., 1991)
  commodities:
    manufactured goods, machinery, fuels, chemicals, semifinished goods,
    transport equipment
  partners:
    EC 53.2% (FRG 12.7%, France 10.5%, Netherlands 7.0%), US 12.4%
Imports:
    $211.9 billion (c.i.f., 1991)
  commodities:
    manufactured goods, machinery, semifinished goods, foodstuffs, consumer
    goods
  partners:
    EC 52.2% (FRG 15.6%, France 9.3%, Netherlands 8.4%), US 11.5%
External debt:
    $10.5 billion (1990)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 0% (1991)
Electricity:
    98,000,000 kW capacity; 316,500 million kWh produced, 5,520 kWh per capita
    (1991)

:United Kingdom Economy

Industries:
    production machinery including machine tools, electric power equipment,
    equipment for the automation of production, railroad equipment,
    shipbuilding, aircraft, motor vehicles and parts, electronics and
    communications equipment, metals, chemicals, coal, petroleum, paper and
    paper products, food processing, textiles, clothing, and other consumer
    goods
Agriculture:
    accounts for only 1.5% of GDP and 1% of labor force; highly mechanized and
    efficient farms; wide variety of crops and livestock products produced;
    about 60% self-sufficient in food and feed needs; fish catch of 665,000
    metric tons (1987)
Economic aid:
    donor - ODA and OOF commitments (1970-89), $21.0 billion
Currency:
    British pound or pound sterling (plural - pounds); 1 British pound (#) = 100
    pence
Exchange rates:
    British pounds (#) per US$1 - 0.5799 (March 1992), 0.5652 (1991), 0.5603
    (1990), 0.6099 (1989), 0.5614 (1988), 0.6102 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    1 April-31 March

:United Kingdom Communications

Railroads:
    Great Britain - 16,629 km total; British Railways (BR) operates 16,629 km
    1.435-meter (standard) gauge (4,205 km electrified and 12,591 km double or
    multiple track); several additional small standard-gauge and narrow-gauge
    lines are privately owned and operated; Northern Ireland Railways (NIR)
    operates 332 km 1.600-meter gauge, including 190 km double track
Highways:
    UK, 362,982 km total; Great Britain, 339,483 km paved (including 2,573 km
    limited-access divided highway); Northern Ireland, 23,499 km (22,907 paved,
    592 km gravel)
Inland waterways:
    2,291 total; British Waterways Board, 606 km; Port Authorities, 706 km;
    other, 979 km
Pipelines:
    crude oil (almost all insignificant) 933 km, petroleum products 2,993 km,
    natural gas 12,800 km
Ports:
    London, Liverpool, Felixstowe, Tees and Hartlepool, Dover, Sullom Voe,
    Southampton
Merchant marine:
    224 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 3,905,571 GRT/4,840,862 DWT; includes
    7 passenger, 21 short-sea passenger, 37 cargo, 27 container, 14
    roll-on/roll-off, 10 refrigerated cargo, 1 vehicle carrier, 1 railcar
    carrier, 66 petroleum tanker, 2 chemical tanker, 9 liquefied gas, 1
    combination ore/oil, 1 specialized tanker, 26 bulk, 1 combination bulk
Civil air:
    618 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    498 total, 385 usable; 249 with permanent-surface runways; 1 with runways
    over 3,659 m; 37 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 133 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    technologically advanced domestic and international system; 30,200,000
    telephones; equal mix of buried cables, microwave and optical-fiber systems;
    excellent countrywide broadcast systems; broadcast stations - 225 AM, 525
    (mostly repeaters) FM, 207 (3,210 repeaters) TV; 40 coaxial submarine
    cables; 5 satellite ground stations operating in INTELSAT (7 Atlantic Ocean
    and 3 Indian Ocean), MARISAT, and EUTELSAT systems; at least 8 large
    international switching centers

:United Kingdom Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Royal Navy (including Royal Marines), Royal Air Force
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 14,462,820; 12,122,497 fit for military service; no
    conscription
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $42 billion, 4.3% of GDP (FY91)

:United States Geography

Total area:
    9,372,610 km2
Land area:
    9,166,600 km2; includes only the 50 states and District of Colombia
Comparative area:
    about three-tenths the size of Russia; about one-third the size of Africa;
    about one-half the size of South America (or slightly larger than Brazil);
    slightly smaller than China; about two and one-half times the size of
    Western Europe
Land boundaries:
    12,248.1 km; Canada 8,893 km (including 2,477 km with Alaska), Mexico 3,326
    km, Cuba (US naval base at Guantanamo) 29.1 km
Coastline:
    19,924 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    12 nm
  Continental shelf:
    not specified
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    maritime boundary disputes with Canada (Dixon Entrance, Beaufort Sea, Strait
    of Juan de Fuca); US Naval Base at Guantanamo is leased from Cuba and only
    mutual agreement or US abandonment of the area can terminate the lease;
    Haiti claims Navassa Island; US has made no territorial claim in Antarctica
    (but has reserved the right to do so) and does not recognize the claims of
    any other nation; Marshall Islands claims Wake Island
Climate:
    mostly temperate, but varies from tropical (Hawaii) to arctic (Alaska); arid
    to semiarid in west with occasional warm, dry chinook wind
Terrain:
    vast central plain, mountains in west, hills and low mountains in east;
    rugged mountains and broad river valleys in Alaska; rugged, volcanic
    topography in Hawaii
Natural resources:
    coal, copper, lead, molybdenum, phosphates, uranium, bauxite, gold, iron,
    mercury, nickel, potash, silver, tungsten, zinc, crude oil, natural gas,
    timber
Land use:
    arable land 20%; permanent crops NEGL%; meadows and pastures 26%; forest and
    woodland 29%; other 25%; includes irrigated 2%
Environment:
    pollution control measures improving air and water quality; acid rain;
    agricultural fertilizer and pesticide pollution; management of sparse
    natural water resources in west; desertification; tsunamis, volcanoes, and
    earthquake activity around Pacific Basin; continuous permafrost in northern
    Alaska is a major impediment to development
Note:
    world's fourth-largest country (after Russia, Canada, and China)

:United States People

Population:
    254,521,000 (July 1992), growth rate 0.8% (1992)
Birth rate:
    14 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    9 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    2 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    10 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    72 years male, 79 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    1.8 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - American(s); adjective - American
Ethnic divisions:
    white 84.1%, black 12.4%, other 3.5% (1989)
Religions:
    Protestant 56%, Roman Catholic 28%, Jewish 2%, other 4%, none 10% (1989)
Languages:
    predominantly English; sizable Spanish-speaking minority
Literacy:
    98% (male 97%, female 98%) age 25 and over having completed 5 or more years
    of schooling (1989)
Labor force:
    126,867,000 (includes armed forces and unemployed); civilian labor force
    125,303,000 (1991)
Organized labor:
    16,568,000 members; 16.1% of total wage and salary employment which was
    102,786,000 (1991)

:United States Government

Long-form name:
    United States of America; abbreviated US or USA
Type:
    federal republic; strong democratic tradition
Capital:
    Washington, DC
Administrative divisions:
    50 states and 1 district*; Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, California,
    Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, District of Columbia*, Florida, Georgia,
    Hawaii, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maine,
    Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri,
    Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York,
    North Carolina, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode
    Island, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Vermont,
    Virginia, Washington, West Virginia, Wisconsin, Wyoming
Independence:
    4 July 1776 (from England)
Constitution:
    17 September 1787, effective 4 June 1789
Dependent areas:
    American Samoa, Baker Island, Guam, Howland Island; Jarvis Island, Johnston
    Atoll, Kingman Reef, Midway Islands, Navassa Island, Northern Mariana
    Islands, Palmyra Atoll, Puerto Rico, Virgin Islands, Wake Island
Legal system:
    based on English common law; judicial review of legislative acts; accepts
    compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with reservations
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 4 July (1776)
Executive branch:
    president, vice president, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    bicameral Congress consists of an upper house or Senate and a lower house or
    House of Representatives
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State and Head of Government:
    President George BUSH (since 20 January 1989); Vice President Dan QUAYLE
    (since 20 January 1989)
Political parties and leaders:
    Republican Party, Richard N. BOND, national committee chairman; Jeanie
    AUSTIN, co-chairman; Democratic Party, Ronald H. BROWN, national committee
    chairman; several other groups or parties of minor political significance
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  President:
    last held 8 November 1988 (next to be held 3 November 1992); results -
    George BUSH (Republican Party) 53.37%, Michael DUKAKIS (Democratic Party)
    45.67%, other 0.96%
  Senate:
    last held 6 November 1990 (next to be held 3 November 1992); results -
    Democratic Party 51%, Republican Party 47%, other 2%; seats - (100 total)
    Democratic Party 56, Republican Party 44
  House of Representatives:
    last held 6 November 1990 (next to be held 3 November 1992); results -
    Democratic Party 52%, Republican Party 44%, other 4%; seats - (435 total)
    Democratic Party 267, Republican Party 167, Socialist 1

:United States Government

Communists:
    Communist Party (claimed 15,000-20,000 members), Gus HALL, general
    secretary; Socialist Workers Party (claimed 1,800 members), Jack BARNES,
    national secretary
Member of:
    AfDB, AG (observer), ANZUS, APEC, AsDB, BIS, CCC, COCOM, CP, CSCE, EBRD,
    ECE, ECLAC, FAO, ESCAP, G-2, G-5, G-7, G-8, G-10, GATT, IADB, IAEA, IBRD,
    ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INMARSAT, INTELSAT,
    INTERPOL, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, LORCS, NATO, NEA, OAS, OECD, PCA, SPC, UN,
    UNCTAD, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNRWA, UN Security Council, UN Trusteeship Council,
    UNTSO, UPU, WCL, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    US Representative to the UN, Ambassador Thomas R. PICKERING; Mission at 799
    United Nations Plaza, New York, NY 10017; telephone (212) 415-4050, after
    hours (212) 415-4444; FAX (212) 415-4443
Flag:
    thirteen equal horizontal stripes of red (top and bottom) alternating with
    white; there is a blue rectangle in the upper hoist-side corner bearing 50
    small white five-pointed stars arranged in nine offset horizontal rows of
    six stars (top and bottom) alternating with rows of five stars; the 50 stars
    represent the 50 states, the 13 stripes represent the 13 original colonies;
    known as Old Glory; the design and colors have been the basis for a number
    of other flags including Chile, Liberia, Malaysia, and Puerto Rico
Note:
    since 18 July 1947, the US has administered the Trust Territory of the
    Pacific Islands, but recently entered into a new political relationship with
    three of the four political units; the Northern Mariana Islands is a
    Commonwealth in political union with the US (effective 3 November 1986);
    Palau concluded a Compact of Free Association with the US that was approved
    by the US Congress but to date the Compact process has not been completed in
    Palau, which continues to be administered by the US as the Trust Territory
    of the Pacific Islands; the Federated States of Micronesia signed a Compact
    of Free Association with the US (effective 3 November 1986); the Republic of
    the Marshall Islands signed a Compact of Free Association with the US
    (effective 21 October 1986)

:United States Economy

Overview:
    The US has the most powerful, diverse, and technologically advanced economy
    in the world, with a per capita GDP of $22,470, the largest among major
    industrial nations. The economy is market oriented with most decisions made
    by private individuals and business firms and with government purchases of
    goods and services made predominantly in the marketplace. In 1989 the
    economy enjoyed its seventh successive year of substantial growth, the
    longest in peacetime history. The expansion featured moderation in wage and
    consumer price increases and a steady reduction in unemployment to 5.2% of
    the labor force. In 1990, however, growth slowed to 1% because of a
    combination of factors, such as the worldwide increase in interest rates,
    Iraq's invasion of Kuwait in August, the subsequent spurt in oil prices, and
    a general decline in business and consumer confidence. In 1991 output failed
    to recover, unemployment grew, and signs of recovery proved premature.
    Ongoing problems for the 1990s include inadequate investment in economic
    infrastructure, rapidly rising medical costs, and sizable budget and trade
    deficits.
GDP:
    purchasing power equivalent - $5,673 billion, per capita $22,470; real
    growth rate -0.7% (1991)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    4.2% (1991)
Unemployment rate:
    6.6% (1991)
Budget:
    revenues $1,054 billion; expenditures $1,323 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $NA (FY91)
Exports:
    $428.1 billion (f.o.b., 1991 est.)
  commodities:
    capital goods, automobiles, industrial supplies and raw materials, consumer
    goods, agricultural products
  partners:
    Western Europe 27.3%, Canada 22.1%, Japan 12.1% (1989)
Imports:
    $499.4 billion (c.i.f., 1991 est.)
  commodities:
    crude and partly refined petroleum, machinery, automobiles, consumer goods,
    industrial raw materials, food and beverages
  partners:
    Western Europe 21.5%, Japan 19.7%, Canada 18.8% (1989)
External debt:
    NA
Industrial production:
    growth rate -1.9% (1991)
Electricity:
    776,550,000 kW capacity; 3,020,000 million kWh produced, 12,080 kWh per
    capita (1990)
Industries:
    leading industrial power in the world, highly diversified; petroleum, steel,
    motor vehicles, aerospace, telecommunications, chemicals, electronics, food
    processing, consumer goods, fishing, lumber, mining
Agriculture:
    accounts for 2% of GDP and 2.8% of labor force; favorable climate and soils
    support a wide variety of crops and livestock production; world's second
    largest producer and number one exporter of grain; surplus food producer;
    fish catch of 5.0 million metric tons (1988)

:United States Economy

Illicit drugs:
    illicit producer of cannabis for domestic consumption with 1987 production
    estimated at 3,500 metric tons or about 25% of the available marijuana;
    ongoing eradication program aimed at small plots and greenhouses has not
    reduced production
Economic aid:
    donor - commitments, including ODA and OOF, (FY80-89), $115.7 billion
Currency:
    United States dollar (plural - dollars); 1 United States dollar (US$) = 100
    cents
Exchange rates:
  British pounds:
    (#) per US$ - 0.5599 (March 1992), 0.5652 (1991), 0.5603 (1990), 0.6099
    (1989), 0.5614 (1988), 0.6102 (1987)
  Canadian dollars:
    (Can$) per US$ - 1.1926 (March 1992), 1.1457 (1991), 1.1668 (1990), 1.1840
    (1989), 1.2307 (1988), 1.3260 (1987)
  French francs:
    (F) per US$ - 5.6397, (March 1992), 5.6421 (1991), 5.4453 (1990), 6.3801
    (1989), 5.9569 (1988), 6.0107 (1987)
  Italian lire:
    (Lit) per US$ - 1,248.4 (March 1992), 1,240.6 (1991), 1,198.1 (1990),
    1.372.1 (1989), 1,301.6 (1988), 1,296.1 (1987)
  Japanese yen:
    (Y) per US$ - 132.70 (March 1992), 134.71 (1991), 144.79 (1990), 137.96
    (1989), 128.15 (1988), 144.64 (1987)
  German deutsche marks:
    (DM) per US$ - 1.6611 (March 1992), 1.6595 (1991), 1.6157 (1990), 1.8800
    (1989), 1.7562 (1988), 1.7974 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    1 October - 30 September

:United States Communications

Railroads:
    270,312 km
Highways:
    6,365,590 km, including 88,641 km expressways
Inland waterways:
    41,009 km of navigable inland channels, exclusive of the Great Lakes (est.)
Pipelines:
    petroleum 275,800 km, natural gas 305,300 km (1985)
Ports:
    Anchorage, Baltimore, Beaumont, Boston, Charleston, Chicago, Cleveland,
    Duluth, Freeport, Galveston, Hampton Roads, Honolulu, Houston, Jacksonville,
    Long Beach, Los Angeles, Milwaukee, Mobile, New Orleans, New York,
    Philadelphia, Portland (Oregon), Richmond (California), San Francisco,
    Savannah, Seattle, Tampa, Wilmington
Merchant marine:
    396 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 12,969 GRT/20,179 DWT; includes 3
    passenger-cargo, 38 cargo, 25 bulk, 174 tanker, 13 tanker tug-barge, 14
    liquefied gas, 129 intermodal; in addition, there are 231 government-owned
    vessels
Civil air:
    8,252 commercial multiengine transport aircraft (weighing 9,000 kg and over)
    including 6,036 jet, 831 turboprop, 1,382 piston (December 1989)
Airports:
    14,177 total, 12,417 usable; 4,820 with permanent-surface runways; 63 with
    runways over 3,659 m; 325 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 2,524 with runways
    1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    182,558,000 telephones; broadcast stations - 4,892 AM, 5,200 FM (including
    3,915 commercial and 1,285 public broadcasting), 7,296 TV (including 796
    commercial, 300 public broadcasting, and 6,200 commercial cable);
    495,000,000 radio receivers (1982); 150,000,000 TV sets (1982); satellite
    ground stations - 45 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT and 16 Pacific Ocean INTELSAT

:United States Defense Forces

Branches:
    Department of the Army, Department of the Navy (including Marine Corps),
    Department of the Air Force
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 66,458,000; NA fit for military service
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $323.5 billion, 5.7% of GNP (1991)

:Uruguay Geography

Total area:
    176,220 km2
Land area:
    173,620 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than Washington State
Land boundaries:
    1,564 km total; Argentina 579 km, Brazil 985 km
Coastline:
    660 km
Maritime claims:
  Continental shelf:
    200 m (depth) or to depth of exploitation
  Territorial sea:
    200 nm (overflight and navigation permitted beyond 12 nm)
Disputes:
    short section of boundary with Argentina is in dispute; two short sections
    of the boundary with Brazil are in dispute (Arroyo de la Invernada area of
    the Rio Quarai and the islands at the confluence of the Rio Quarai and the
    Uruguay)
Climate:
    warm temperate; freezing temperatures almost unknown
Terrain:
    mostly rolling plains and low hills; fertile coastal lowland
Natural resources:
    soil, hydropower potential, minor minerals
Land use:
    arable land 8%; permanent crops NEGL%; meadows and pastures 78%; forest and
    woodland 4%; other 10%; includes irrigated 1%
Environment:
    subject to seasonally high winds, droughts, floods

:Uruguay People

Population:
    3,141,533 (July 1992), growth rate 0.6% (1992)
Birth rate:
    17 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    10 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    -1 migrant/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    23 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    69 years male, 76 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    2.4 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Uruguayan(s); adjective - Uruguayan
Ethnic divisions:
    white 88%, mestizo 8%, black 4%
Religions:
    Roman Catholic (less than half adult population attends church regularly)
    66%, Protestant 2%, Jewish 2%, nonprofessing or other 30%
Languages:
    Spanish
Literacy:
    96% (male 97%, female 96%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    1,355,000 (1991 est.); government 25%, manufacturing 19%, agriculture 11%,
    commerce 12%, utilities, construction, transport, and communications 12%,
    other services 21% (1988 est.)
Organized labor:
    Interunion Workers' Assembly/National Workers' Confederation (PIT/CNT) Labor
    Federation

:Uruguay Government

Long-form name:
    Oriental Republic of Uruguay
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Montevideo
Administrative divisions:
    19 departments (departamentos, singular - departamento); Artigas, Canelones,
    Cerro Largo, Colonia, Durazno, Flores, Florida, Lavalleja, Maldonado,
    Montevideo, Paysandu, Rio Negro, Rivera, Rocha, Salto, San Jose, Soriano,
    Tacuarembo, Treinta y Tres
Independence:
    25 August 1828 (from Brazil)
Constitution:
    27 November 1966, effective February 1967, suspended 27 June 1973, new
    constitution rejected by referendum 30 November 1980
Legal system:
    based on Spanish civil law system; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 25 August (1828)
Executive branch:
    president, vice president, Council of Ministers (cabinet)
Legislative branch:
    bicameral General Assembly (Asamblea General) consists of an upper chamber
    or Chamber of Senators (Camara de Senadores) and a lower chamber or Chamber
    of Representatives (Camera de Representantes)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State and Head of Government:
    President Luis Alberto LACALLE (since 1 March 1990); Vice President Gonzalo
    AGUIRRE Ramirez (since 1 March 1990)
Political parties and leaders:
    National (Blanco) Party, Carlos CAT; Colorado Party, Jorge BATLLE Ibanez;
    Broad Front Coalition, Liber SEREGNI Mosquera - includes Communist Party led
    by Jaime PEREZ and National Liberation Movement (MLN) or Tupamaros led by
    Eleuterio FERNANDEZ Huidobro; New Space Coalition consists of the Party of
    the Government of the People (PGP), Hugo BATALLA; Christian Democratic Party
    (PDC), leader NA; and Civic Union, Humberto CIGANDA
Suffrage:
    universal and compulsory at age 18
Elections:
  President:
    last held 26 November 1989 (next to be held NA November 1994); results -
    Luis Alberto LACALLE Herrera (Blanco) 37%, Jorge BATLLE Ibanez (Colorado)
    29%, Liber SEREGNI Mosquera (Broad Front) 20%
  Chamber of Senators:
    last held 26 November 1989 (next to be held NA November 1994); results -
    Blanco 40%, Colorado 30%, Broad Front 23% New Space 7%; seats - (30 total)
    Blanco 12, Colorado 9, Broad Front 7, New Space 2
  Chamber of Representatives:
    last held NA November 1989 (next to be held NA November 1994); results -
    Blanco 39%, Colorado 30%, Broad Front 22%, New Space 8%, other 1%; seats -
    (99 total) number of seats by party NA
Communists:
    50,000

:Uruguay Government

Member of:
    AG (observer), CCC, ECLAC, FAO, G-11, G-77, GATT, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
    ICC, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, IOM, ISO
    (correspondent), ITU, LAES, LAIA, LORCS, NAM (observer), OAS, OPANAL, PCA,
    RG, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNIIMOG, UNMOGIP, UPU, WCL, WHO, WIPO, WMO,
    WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Eduardo MACGILLICUDDY; Chancery at 1918 F Street NW, Washington,
    DC 20006; telephone (202) 331-1313 through 1316; there are Uruguayan
    Consulates General in Los Angeles, Miami, and New York, and a Consulate in
    New Orleans
  US:
    Ambassador Richard C. BROWN; Embassy at Lauro Muller 1776, Montevideo
    (mailing address is APO AA 34035); telephone [598] (2) 23-60-61 or 48-77-77;
    FAX [598] (2) 48-86-11
Flag:
    nine equal horizontal stripes of white (top and bottom) alternating with
    blue; there is a white square in the upper hoist-side corner with a yellow
    sun bearing a human face known as the Sun of May and 16 rays alternately
    triangular and wavy

:Uruguay Economy

Overview:
    The economy is slowly recovering from the deep recession of the early 1980s.
    In 1988 real GDP grew by only 0.5% and in 1989 by 1.5%. The recovery was led
    by growth in the agriculture and fishing sectors, agriculture alone
    contributing 20% to GDP, employing about 11% of the labor force, and
    generating a large proportion of export earnings. Raising livestock,
    particularly cattle and sheep, is the major agricultural activity. In 1991,
    domestic growth improved somewhat over 1990, but various government factors,
    including concentration on the external sector, adverse weather conditions,
    and greater attention to bringing down inflation and reducing the fiscal
    deficit kept output from expanding rapidly. In a major step toward greater
    regional economic cooperation, Uruguay joined Brazil, Argentina, and
    Paraguay in forming the Southern Cone Common Market (Mercosur). President
    LACALLE continues to press ahead with a broad economic reform plan to reduce
    state intervention in the economy, but he faces strong opposition.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $9.1 billion, per capita $2,935; real growth rate
    2.3% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    60% (1992 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    8.5% (1991 est.)
Budget:
    revenues $1.2 billion; expenditures $1.4 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $165 million (1988)
Exports:
    $1.6 billion (f.o.b., 1991)
  commodities:
    hides and leather goods 17%, beef 10%, wool 9%, fish 7%, rice 4%
  partners:
    Brazil, US, Argentina, Germany
Imports:
    $1.3 billion (f.o.b., 1991)
  commodities:
    fuels and lubricants 15%, metals, machinery, transportation equipment,
    industrial chemicals
  partners:
    Brazil 23%, Argentina 17%, US 10%, EC 27.1% (1990)
External debt:
    $4.2 billion (1991 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate -1.4% (1990), accounts for almost 25% of GDP
Electricity:
    2,065,000 kW capacity; 5,677 million kWh produced, 1,819 kWh per capita
    (1991)
Industries:
    meat processing, wool and hides, sugar, textiles, footwear, leather apparel,
    tires, cement, fishing, petroleum refining, wine
Agriculture:
    large areas devoted to livestock grazing; wheat, rice, corn, sorghum;
    self-sufficient in most basic foodstuffs
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-88), $105 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $420 million;
    Communist countries (1970-89), $69 million
Currency:
    new Uruguayan peso (plural - pesos); 1 new Uruguayan peso (N$Ur) = 100
    centesimos

:Uruguay Economy

Exchange rates:
    new Uruguayan pesos (N$Ur) per US$1 - 2,732.8 (March 1992), 2,018.8 (1991),
    1,171.0 (1990), 605.5 (1989), 359.4 (1988), 226.7 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Uruguay Communications

Railroads:
    3,000 km, all 1.435-meter (standard) gauge and government owned
Highways:
    49,900 km total; 6,700 km paved, 3,000 km gravel, 40,200 km earth
Inland waterways:
    1,600 km; used by coastal and shallow-draft river craft
Ports:
    Montevideo, Punta del Este
Merchant marine:
    3 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 56,737 GRT/104,143 DWT; includes 1
    cargo, 1 container, 1 petroleum tanker
Civil air:
    11 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    90 total, 83 usable; 16 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 2 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 16 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    most modern facilities concentrated in Montevideo; new nationwide microwave
    network; 337,000 telephones; broadcast stations - 99 AM, no FM, 26 TV, 9
    shortwave; 2 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT earth stations

:Uruguay Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Navy (including Naval Air Arm, Coast Guard, and Marines), Air Force,
    Grenadier Guards, Police
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 745,728; 605,392 fit for military service; no conscription
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $168 million, 2.2% of GDP (1988)

:Uzbekistan Geography

Total area:
    447,400 km2
Land area:
    425,400 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than California
Land boundaries:
    6,221 km total; Afghanistan 137 km, Kazakhstan 2,203 km, Kyrgyzstan 1,099
    km, Tajikistan 1,161 km, Turkmenistan 1,621 km
Coastline:
    0 km
  note:
    Uzbekistan does border the Aral Sea (420 km)
Maritime claims:
    none - landlocked
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    mostly mid latitude desert; semiarid grassland in east
Terrain:
    mostly flat-to-rolling sandy desert with dunes; Fergana valley in east
    surrounded by mountainous Tajikistan and Kyrgyzstan; shrinking Aral Sea in
    west
Natural resources:
    natural gas, petroleum, coal, gold, uranium, silver, copper, lead and zinc,
    tungsten, molybdenum
Land use:
    NA% arable land; NA% permanent crops; NA% meadows and pastures; NA% forest
    and woodland; NA% other; includes NA% irrigated
Environment:
    drying up of the Aral Sea is resulting in growing concentrations of chemical
    pesticides and natural salts
Note:
    landlocked

:Uzbekistan People

Population:
    21,626,784 (July 1992), growth rate 2.4% (1992)
Birth rate:
    34 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    7 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    -2 migrants/1,000 population (1992); note - 179,000 persons left Uzbekistan
    in 1990
Infant mortality rate:
    65 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    64 years male, 70 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    4.2 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Uzbek(s); adjective - Uzbek
Ethnic divisions:
    Uzbek 71%, Russian 8%, Tajik 5%, other 16%; note - includes 70% of Crimean
    Tatars since their World War II deportation
Religions:
    Muslim (mostly Sunnis) 75-80%, other (includes Farsi) 20-25%
Languages:
    Uzbek 85%, Russian 5%, other 10%
Literacy:
    NA%
Labor force:
    7,941,000; agriculture and forestry 39%, industry and construction 24%,
    other 37% (1990)
Organized labor:
    NA

:Uzbekistan Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Uzbekistan
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Tashkent (Toshkent)
Administrative divisions:
    11 oblasts (oblastey, singular - oblast') and 1 autonomous republic*
    (avtomnaya respublika); Andizhan, Bukhara, Dzhizak, Fergana, Karakalpakstan*
    (Nukus), Kashkadar'ya (Karshi), Khorezm (Urgench), Namangan, Samarkand,
    Surkhandar'ya (Termez), Syrdar'ya (Gulistan), Tashkent; note - an
    administrative division has the same name as its administrative center
    (exceptions have the administrative center name following in parentheses)
Independence:
    31 August 1991 from the Soviet Union; note - formerly Uzbek Soviet Socialist
    Republic in the Soviet Union
Constitution:
    NA
Legal system:
    NA
National holiday:
    NA
Executive branch:
    president
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Supreme Soviet
Judicial branch:
    NA
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Islam KARIMOV (since 29 December 1991)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Abdulhashim MUTALOV (since 13 January 1992)
Political parties and leaders:
    People's Democratic Party of Uzbekistan (formerly Communist Party), Islam
    KARIMOV, chairman; ERK, Mukhammad SOLIKH, chairman
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  President:
    last held 29 December 1991 (next to be held NA December 1996); results -
    Islam KARIMOV 86%, Mukhammad SOLIKH 12%, other 2%
  Supreme Soviet:
    last held NA March 1990 (next to be held NA); results - percent of vote by
    party NA; seats - (500 total) Communist 450, ERK 10, other 40
Communists:
    NA
Other political or pressure groups:
    Birlik (Unity) Abdurakhim PULATOV, chairman; Islamic Renaissance Party,
    Abdulljon UTAEV, chairman
Member of:
    CIS, CSCE, IMF, NACC, UN UNCTAD
Diplomatic representation:
    NA
  US:
    Charge d'Affaires Michael MOZUR; Embassy at Hotel Uzbekistan, ;55
    Chelendarskaya, Tashkent (mailing address is APO AE 09862); telephone [8]
    (011) 7-3712-33-15-74

:Uzbekistan Government

Flag:
    three equal horizontal bands - blue (top), white, and green with a crescent
    moon and 12 stars in the upper hoist-side quadrant

:Uzbekistan Economy

Overview:
    Although Uzbekistan accounted for only 3.4% of total Soviet output, it
    produced two-thirds of the USSR's cotton. Moscow's push for ever-increasing
    amounts of cotton included massive irrigation projects which caused
    extensive environmental damage to the Aral Sea and rivers of the republic.
    Furthermore, the lavish use of chemical fertilizers has caused extensive
    pollution and widespread health problems. Recently the republic has sought
    to encourage food production at the expense of cotton. The small industrial
    sector specializes in such items as agricultural machinery, mineral
    fertilizers, vegetable oil, and electrical cranes. Uzbekistan also has some
    important natural resources including gold (about 30% of Soviet production),
    uranium, and natural gas. The Uzbek government has encouraged land reform
    but has shied away from other aspects of economic reform.
GDP:
    purchasing power equivalent - $NA, per capita $NA; real growth rate -0.9%
    (1991)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    83% (1991)
Unemployment rate:
    NA
Budget:
    revenues $NA; expenditures $NA, including capital expenditures of $NA
Exports:
    $1.5 billion (1990)
  commodities:
    cotton, gold, textiles, chemical and mineral fertilizers, vegetable oil
  partners:
    Russia, Ukraine, Eastern Europe
Imports:
    $3.5 billion (1990)
  commodities:
    machinery and parts, consumer durables, grain, other foods
  partners:
    principally other former Soviet republics
External debt:
    $2 billion (end of 1991 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 1.8% (1991)
Electricity:
    11,400,000 kW capacity; 54,100 million kWh produced, 2,662 kWh per capita
    (1991)
Industries:
    chemical and mineral fertilizers, vegetable oil, textiles
Agriculture:
    cotton, with much smaller production of grain, fruits, vegetables, and
    livestock
Illicit drugs:
    illicit producers of cannabis and opium; mostly for domestic consumption;
    status of government eradication programs unknown; used as transshipment
    points for illicit drugs to Western Europe
Economic aid:
    $NA
Currency:
    as of May 1992, retaining ruble as currency
Exchange rates:
    NA
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Uzbekistan Communications

Railroads:
    3,460 km all 1.520-meter gauge (includes NA km electrified); does not
    include industrial lines (1990)
Highways:
    78,400 km total (1990); 67,000 km hard-surfaced, 11,400 km earth
Inland waterways:
    NA km
Pipelines:
    NA
Ports:
    none - landlocked
Civil air:
    NA
Airports:
    NA
Telecommunications:
    poorly developed; telephone density NA; linked by landline or microwave with
    CIS member states and by leased connection via the Moscow international
    gateway switch to other countries; satellite earth stations - Orbita and
    INTELSAT (TV receive only)

:Uzbekistan Defense Forces

Branches:
    Republic Security Forces (internal and border troops), National Guard; CIS
    Forces (Ground, Air and Air Defense)
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, NA; NA fit for military service; NA reach military age (18)
    annually
Defense expenditures:
    $NA, NA% of GDP

:Vanuatu Geography

Total area:
    14,760 km2
Land area:
    14,760 km2; includes more than 80 islands
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than Connecticut
Land boundaries:
    0 km
Coastline:
    2,528 km
Maritime claims:
    (measured from claimed archipelagic baselines)
  Contiguous zone:
    24 nm
  Continental shelf:
    edge of continental margin or 200 nm
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    tropical; moderated by southeast trade winds
Terrain:
    mostly mountains of volcanic origin; narrow coastal plains
Natural resources:
    manganese, hardwood forests, fish
Land use:
    arable land 1%; permanent crops 5%; meadows and pastures 2%; forest and
    woodland 1%; other 91%
Environment:
    subject to tropical cyclones or typhoons (January to April); volcanism
    causes minor earthquakes
Note:
    located 5,750 km southwest of Honolulu in the South Pacific Ocean about
    three-quarters of the way between Hawaii and Australia

:Vanuatu People

Population:
    174,574 (July 1992), growth rate 3.0% (1992)
Birth rate:
    35 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    5 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    30 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    67 years male, 72 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    5.1 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Ni-Vanuatu (singular and plural); adjective - Ni-Vanuatu
Ethnic divisions:
    indigenous Melanesian 94%, French 4%, remainder Vietnamese, Chinese, and
    various Pacific Islanders
Religions:
    Presbyterian 36.7%, Anglican 15%, Catholic 15%, indigenous beliefs 7.6%,
    Seventh-Day Adventist 6.2%, Church of Christ 3.8%, other 15.7%
Languages:
    English and French (official); pidgin (known as Bislama or Bichelama)
Literacy:
    53% (male 57%, female 48%) age 15 and over can read and write (1979)
Labor force:
    NA
Organized labor:
    7 registered trade unions - largest include Oil and Gas Workers' Union,
    Vanuatu Airline Workers' Union

:Vanuatu Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Vanuatu
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Port-Vila
Administrative divisions:
    11 island councils; Ambrym, Aoba/Maewo, Banks/Torres, Efate, Epi, Malakula,
    Paama, Pentecote, Santo/Malo, Shepherd, Tafea
Independence:
    30 July 1980 (from France and UK; formerly New Hebrides)
Constitution:
    30 July 1980
Legal system:
    unified system being created from former dual French and British systems
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 30 July (1980)
Executive branch:
    president, prime minister, deputy prime minister, Council of Ministers
    (cabinet)
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Parliament; note - the National Council of Chiefs advises on
    matters of custom and land
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Frederick TIMAKATA (since 30 January 1989)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Maxime CARLOT (since 16 December 1991); Deputy Prime Minister
    Sethy REGENVANU (since 17 December 1991)
Political parties and leaders:
    Vanuatu Party (VP), Donald KALPOKAS; Union of Moderate Parties (UMP), Serge
    VOHOR; Melanesian Progressive Party (MPP), Barak SOPE; National United Party
    (NUP), Walter LINI; Tan Union Party (TUP), Vincent BOULEKONE; Nagriamel
    Party, Jimmy STEVENS; Friend Melanesian Party, leader NA
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  Parliament:
    last held 2 December 1991 (next to be held by November 1995); note - after
    election, a coalition was formed by the Union of Moderate Parties and the
    National United Party to form new government on 16 December 1991; seats -
    (46 total) UMP 19; NUP 10; VP 10; MPP 4; TUP 1; Nagriamel 1; Friend 1
Member of:
    ACCT, ACP, AsDB, C, ESCAP, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, IDA, IFC, IMF, IMO,
    IOC, ITU, NAM, SPC, SPF, UN, UNCTAD, UNIDO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WMO
Diplomatic representation:
    Vanuatu does not have a mission in Washington
  US:
    the ambassador in Papua New Guinea is accredited to Vanuatu
Flag:
    two equal horizontal bands of red (top) and green (bottom) with a black
    isosceles triangle (based on the hoist side) all separated by a black-edged
    yellow stripe in the shape of a horizontal Y (the two points of the Y face
    the hoist side and enclose the triangle); centered in the triangle is a
    boar's tusk encircling two crossed namele leaves, all in yellow

:Vanuatu Economy

Overview:
    The economy is based primarily on subsistence farming which provides a
    living for about 80% of the population. Fishing and tourism are the other
    mainstays of the economy. Mineral deposits are negligible; the country has
    no known petroleum deposits. A small light industry sector caters to the
    local market. Tax revenues come mainly from import duties.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $142 million, per capita $900 (1988 est.); real
    growth rate 6% (1990)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    5% (1990)
Unemployment rate:
    NA%
Budget:
    revenues $90.0 million; expenditures $103.0 million, including capital
    expenditures of $45.0 million (1989 est.)
Exports:
    $15.6 million (f.o.b., 1990 est.)
  commodities:
    copra 59%, cocoa 11%, meat 9%, fish 8%, timber 4%
  partners:
    Netherlands, Japan, France, New Caledonia, Belgium
Imports:
    $60.4 million (f.o.b., 1990 est.)
  commodities:
    machines and vehicles 25%, food and beverages 23%, basic manufactures 18%,
    raw materials and fuels 11%, chemicals 6%
  partners:
    Australia 36%, Japan 13%, NZ 10%, France 8%, Fiji 8%
External debt:
    $30 million (1990 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate NA%; accounts for about 10% of GDP
Electricity:
    17,000 kW capacity; 30 million kWh produced, 180 kWh per capita (1990)
Industries:
    food and fish freezing, wood processing, meat canning
Agriculture:
    accounts for 40% of GDP; export crops - copra, cocoa, coffee, and fish;
    subsistence crops - copra, taro, yams, coconuts, fruits, and vegetables
Economic aid:
    Western (non-US) countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89),
    $606 million
Currency:
    vatu (plural - vatu); 1 vatu (VT) = 100 centimes
Exchange rates:
    vatu (VT) per US$1 - 112.55 (March 1992), 111.68 (1991), 116.57 (1990),
    116.04 (1989), 104.43 (1988), 109.85 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Vanuatu Communications

Railroads:
    none
Highways:
    1,027 km total; at least 240 km sealed or all-weather roads
Ports:
    Port-Vila, Luganville, Palikoulo, Santu
Merchant marine:
    121 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 2,093,443 GRT/3,168,822 DWT; includes
    26 cargo, 14 refrigerated cargo, 5 container, 11 vehicle carrier, 1
    livestock carrier, 5 petroleum tanker, 2 chemical tanker, 3 liquefied gas,
    51 bulk, 1 combination bulk, 1 passenger, 1 short-sea passenger; note - a
    flag of convenience registry
Civil air:
    no major transport aircraft
Airports:
    33 total, 31 usable; 2 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 1 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 2 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    broadcast stations - 2 AM, no FM, no TV; 3,000 telephones; satellite ground
    stations - 1 Pacific Ocean INTELSAT

:Vanuatu Defense Forces

Branches:
    no military forces; Vanuatu Police Force (VPF), paramilitary Vanuatu Mobile
    Force (VMF)
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, NA; NA fit for military service
Defense expenditures:
    $NA, NA% of GDP

:Venezuela Geography

Total area:
    912,050 km2
Land area:
    882,050 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly more than twice the size of California
Land boundaries:
    4,993 km total; Brazil 2,200 km, Colombia 2,050 km, Guyana 743 km
Coastline:
    2,800 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    15 nm
  Continental shelf:
    200 m (depth) or to depth of exploitation
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    claims all of Guyana west of the Essequibo river; maritime boundary dispute
    with Colombia in the Gulf of Venezuela
Climate:
    tropical; hot, humid; more moderate in highlands
Terrain:
    Andes mountains and Maracaibo lowlands in northwest; central plains
    (llanos); Guyana highlands in southeast
Natural resources:
    crude oil, natural gas, iron ore, gold, bauxite, other minerals, hydropower,
    diamonds
Land use:
    arable land 3%; permanent crops 1%; meadows and pastures 20%; forest and
    woodland 39%; other 37%; includes irrigated NEGL%
Environment:
    subject to floods, rockslides, mudslides; periodic droughts; increasing
    industrial pollution in Caracas and Maracaibo
Note:
    on major sea and air routes linking North and South America

:Venezuela People

Population:
    20,675,970 (July 1992), growth rate 2.4% (1992)
Birth rate:
    27 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    4 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    1 migrant/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    23 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    71 years male, 78 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    3.3 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Venezuelan(s); adjective - Venezuelan
Ethnic divisions:
    mestizo 67%, white 21%, black 10%, Indian 2%
Religions:
    nominally Roman Catholic 96%, Protestant 2%
Languages:
    Spanish (official); Indian dialects spoken by about 200,000 Amerindians in
    the remote interior
Literacy:
    88% (male 87%, female 90%) age 15 and over can read and write (1981 est.)
Labor force:
    5,800,000; services 56%, industry 28%, agriculture 16% (1985)
Organized labor:
    32% of labor force

:Venezuela Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Venezuela
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Caracas
Administrative divisions:
    21 states (estados, singular - estado), 1 territory* (territorios, singular
    - territorio), 1 federal district** (distrito federal), and 1 federal
    dependence*** (dependencia federal); Amazonas*, Anzoategui, Apure, Aragua,
    Barinas, Bolivar, Carabobo, Cojedes, Delta Amacuro, Dependencias
    Federales***, Distrito Federal**, Falcon, Guarico, Lara, Merida, Miranda,
    Monagas, Nueva Esparta, Portuguesa, Sucre, Tachira, Trujillo, Yaracuy,
    Zulia; note - the federal dependence consists of 11 federally controlled
    island groups with a total of 72 individual islands
Independence:
    5 July 1811 (from Spain)
Constitution:
    23 January 1961
Legal system:
    based on Napoleonic code; judicial review of legislative acts in Cassation
    Court only; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 5 July (1811)
Executive branch:
    president, Council of Ministers (cabinet)
Legislative branch:
    bicameral Congress of the Republic (Congreso de la Republica) consists of an
    upper chamber or Senate (Senado) and a lower chamber or Chamber of Deputies
    (Camara de Diputados)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court of Justice (Corte Suprema de Justica)
Leaders:
  Chief of State and Head of Government:
    President Carlos Andres PEREZ (since 2 February 1989)
Political parties and leaders:
    Social Christian Party (COPEI), Hilarion CARDOZO, president, and Eduardo
    FERNANDEZ, secretary general; Democratic Action (AD), Humberto CELLI,
    president, and Luis ALFARO Ucero, secretary general; Movement Toward
    Socialism (MAS), Argelia LAYA, president, and Freddy MUNOZ, secretary
    general
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  President:
    last held 4 December 1988 (next to be held NA December 1993); results -
    Carlos Andres PEREZ (AD) 54.6%, Eduardo FERNANDEZ (COPEI) 41.7%, other 3.7%
  Senate:
    last held 4 December 1988 (next to be held NA December 1993); results -
    percent of vote by party NA; seats - (49 total) AD 23, COPEI 22, other 4;
    note - 3 former presidents (1 from AD, 2 from COPEI) hold lifetime senate
    seats
  Chamber of Deputies:
    last held 4 December 1988 (next to be held NA December 1993); results - AD
    43.7%, COPEI 31.4%, MAS 10.3%, other 14.6%; seats - (201 total) AD 97, COPEI
    67, MAS 18, other 19
Communists:
    10,000 members (est.)

:Venezuela Government

Other political or pressure groups:
    FEDECAMARAS, a conservative business group; Venezuelan Confederation of
    Workers, the Democratic Action - dominated labor organization
Member of:
    AG, CDB, CG, ECLAC, FAO, G-3, G-11, G-19, G-24, G-77, GATT, IADB, IAEA,
    IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC,
    IOM, ISO, ITU, LAES, LAIA, LORCS, NAM, OAS, OPANAL, OPEC, PCA, RG, UN,
    UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Simon Alberto CONSALVI Bottaro; Chancery at 1099 30th Street NW,
    Washington, DC 20007; telephone (202) 342-2214; there are Venezuelan
    Consulates General in Baltimore, Boston, Chicago, Houston, Miami, New
    Orleans, New York, Philadelphia, San Francisco, and San Juan (Puerto Rico)
  US:
    Ambassador Michael Martin SKOL; Embassy at Avenida Francisco de Miranda and
    Avenida Principal de la Floresta, Caracas (mailing address is P. O. Box
    62291, Caracas 1060-A, or APO AA 34037); telephone [58] (2) 285-2222; FAX
    [58] (2) 285-0336; there is a US Consulate in Maracaibo
Flag:
    three equal horizontal bands of yellow (top), blue, and red with the coat of
    arms on the hoist side of the yellow band and an arc of seven white
    five-pointed stars centered in the blue band

:Venezuela Economy

Overview:
    Petroleum is the cornerstone of the economy and accounted for 23% of GDP,
    80% of central government revenues, and 80% of export earnings in 1991.
    President PEREZ introduced an economic readjustment program when he assumed
    office in February 1989. Lower tariffs and price supports, a free market
    exchange rate, and market-linked interest rates threw the economy into
    confusion, causing an 8% decline in GDP in 1989. However, the economy
    recovered part way in 1990, and grew by 9.2% in 1991, led by the petroleum
    sector.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $52.3 billion, per capita $2,590; real growth
    rate 9.2% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    30.7% (1991 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    9.3% (1991 est.)
Budget:
    revenues $13.2 billion; expenditures $13.1 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $NA (1991)
Exports:
    $15.1 billion (f.o.b., 1991 est.)
  commodities:
    petroleum 80%, bauxite and aluminum, iron ore, agricultural products, basic
    manufactures
  partners:
    US 50.7%, Europe 13.7%, Japan 4.0% (1989)
Imports:
    $10.2 billion (f.o.b., 1991 est.)
  commodities:
    foodstuffs, chemicals, manufactures, machinery and transport equipment
  partners:
    US 44%, FRG 8.0%, Japan 4%, Italy 7%, Canada 2% (1989)
External debt:
    $30.9 billion (1991)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 5.4% (1991 est.); accounts for one-fourth of GDP, including
    petroleum
Electricity:
    20,128,000 kW capacity; 55,753 million kWh produced, 2,762 kWh per capita
    (1991)
Industries:
    petroleum, iron-ore mining, construction materials, food processing,
    textiles, steel, aluminum, motor vehicle assembly
Agriculture:
    accounts for 6% of GDP and 16% of labor force; products - corn, sorghum,
    sugarcane, rice, bananas, vegetables, coffee, beef, pork, milk, eggs, fish;
    not self-sufficient in food other than meat
Illicit drugs:
    illicit producer of cannabis and coca leaf for the international drug trade
    on a small scale; however, large quantities of cocaine transit the country
    from Colombia
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-86), $488 million; Communist countries
    (1970-89), $10 million
Currency:
    bolivar (plural - bolivares); 1 bolivar (Bs) = 100 centimos
Exchange rates:
    bolivares (Bs) per US$1 - 65.39 (March 1992), 56.82 (1991), 46.90 (1990),
    34.68 (1989), 14.50 (fixed rate 1987-88)

:Venezuela Economy

Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Venezuela Communications

Railroads:
    542 km total; 363 km 1.435-meter standard gauge all single track, government
    owned; 179 km 1.435-meter gauge, privately owned
Highways:
    77,785 km total; 22,780 km paved, 24,720 km gravel, 14,450 km earth roads,
    and 15,835 km unimproved earth
Inland waterways:
    7,100 km; Rio Orinoco and Lago de Maracaibo accept oceangoing vessels
Pipelines:
    crude oil 6,370 km; petroleum products 480 km; natural gas 4,010 km
Ports:
    Amuay Bay, Bajo Grande, El Tablazo, La Guaira, Puerto Cabello, Puerto Ordaz
Merchant marine:
    57 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 790,108 GRT/1,257,637 DWT; includes 1
    short-sea passenger, 1 passenger cargo, 22 cargo, 1 container, 2
    roll-on/roll-off, 17 petroleum tanker, 1 chemical tanker, 2 liquefied gas, 8
    bulk, 1 vehicle carrier, 1 combination bulk
Civil air:
    56 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    308 total, 287 usable; 135 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 14 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 88 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    modern and expanding; 1,440,000 telephones; broadcast stations - 181 AM, no
    FM, 59 TV, 26 shortwave; 3 submarine coaxial cables; satellite ground
    stations - 1 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT and 3 domestic

:Venezuela Defense Forces

Branches:
    Ground Forces (Army), Naval Forces (including Navy, Marines, Coast Guard),
    Air Forces, Armed Forces of Cooperation (National Guard)
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 5,365,880; 3,884,558 fit for military service; 210,737 reach
    military age (18) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $1.95 billion, 4% of GDP (1991)

:Vietnam Geography

Total area:
    329,560 km2
Land area:
    325,360
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than New Mexico
Land boundaries:
    3,818 km total; Cambodia 982 km, China 1,281 km, Laos 1,555 km
Coastline:
    3,444 km; excludes islands
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    24 nm
  Continental shelf:
    edge of continental margin or 200 nm
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    maritime boundary with Cambodia not defined; involved in a complex dispute
    over the Spratly Islands with China, Malaysia, Philippines, Taiwan, and
    possibly Brunei; unresolved maritime boundary with Thailand; maritime
    boundary dispute with China in the Gulf of Tonkin; Paracel Islands occupied
    by China but claimed by Vietnam and Taiwan
Climate:
    tropical in south; monsoonal in north with hot, rainy season (mid-May to
    mid-September) and warm, dry season (mid-October to mid-March)
Terrain:
    low, flat delta in south and north; central highlands; hilly, mountainous in
    far north and northwest
Natural resources:
    phosphates, coal, manganese, bauxite, chromate, offshore oil deposits,
    forests
Land use:
    arable land 22%; permanent crops 2%; meadows and pastures 1%; forest and
    woodland 40%; other 35%; includes irrigated 5%
Environment:
    occasional typhoons (May to January) with extensive flooding

:Vietnam People

Population:
    68,964,018 (July 1992), growth rate 2.0% (1992)
Birth rate:
    29 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    8 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    -1 migrant/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    47 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    63 years male, 67 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    3.6 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Vietnamese (singular and plural); adjective - Vietnamese
Ethnic divisions:
    predominantly Vietnamese 85-90%; Chinese 3%; ethnic minorities include
    Muong, Thai, Meo, Khmer, Man, Cham; other mountain tribes
Religions:
    Buddhist, Confucian, Taoist, Roman Catholic, indigenous beliefs, Islamic,
    Protestant
Languages:
    Vietnamese (official), French, Chinese, English, Khmer, tribal languages
    (Mon-Khmer and Malayo-Polynesian)
Literacy:
    88% (male 92%, female 84%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    32.7 million; agricultural 65%, industrial and service 35% (1990 est.)
Organized labor:
    reportedly over 90% of wage and salary earners are members of the Vietnam
    Federation of Trade Unions (VFTU)

:Vietnam Government

Long-form name:
    Socialist Republic of Vietnam; abbreviated SRV
Type:
    Communist state
Capital:
    Hanoi
Administrative divisions:
    50 provinces (tinh, singular and plural), 3 municipalities* (thanh pho,
    singular and plural); An Giang, Ba Ria-Vung Tau, Bac Thai, Ben Tre, Binh
    Dinh, Binh Thuan, Can Tho, Cao Bang, Dac Las, Dong Nai, Dong Tay, Gia Lai,
    Ha Bac, Ha Giang, Ha Noi*, Ha Tay, Ha Tinh, Hai Hung, Hai Phong*, Ho Chi
    Minh*, Hoa Binh, Khanh Hoa, Kien Giang, Kon Tum, Lai Chau, Lam Dong, Lang
    Son, Lao Cai, Long An, Minh Hai, Nam Ha, Nghe An, Ninh Binh, Ninh Thuan, Phu
    Yen, Quang Binh, Quang Nam-Da Nang, Quang Ngai, Quang Ninh, Quang Tri, Soc
    Trang, Son La, Song Be, Tay Ninh, Thai Binh, Thanh Hoa, Thua Thien, Tien
    Giang, Tra Vinh, Tuyen Quang, Vinh Long, Vinh Phu, Yen Bai; note -
    diacritical marks are not included
Independence:
    2 September 1945 (from France)
Constitution:
    18 December 1980; new Constitution to be approved Spring 1992
Legal system:
    based on Communist legal theory and French civil law system
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 2 September (1945)
Executive branch:
    president, prime minister, deputy prime minister, Council of Ministers
Legislative branch:
    unicameral National Assembly (Quoc-Hoi)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme People's Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Vo Chi CONG (since 18 June 1987)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Vo Van KIET (since 9 August 1991); Deputy Prime Minister Phan
    Van KHAI (since 10 August 1991)
Political parties and leaders:
    only party - Vietnam Communist Party (VCP), DO MUOI
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  National Assembly:
    last held 19 April 1987 (next to be held 19 July 1992); results - VCP is the
    only party; seats - (496 total) VCP or VCP-approved 496; note - number of
    seats under new government 395
Communists:
    nearly 2 million
Member of:
    ACCT, AsDB, ESCAP, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBEC, IBRD, ICAO, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IIB,
    IMF, IMO, INTELSAT, IOC, ISO, ITU, LORCS, NAM, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO,
    UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    none
Flag:
    red with a large yellow five-pointed star in the center

:Vietnam Economy

Overview:
    This is a formerly centrally planned, developing economy with extensive
    government ownership and control of productive facilities. The economy is
    primarily agricultural; the sector employs about 70% of the labor force and
    accounts for half of GNP. Rice is the staple crop; substantial amounts of
    maize, sorghum, cassava, and sweet potatoes are also grown. The government
    permits sale of surplus grain on the open market. Most of the mineral
    resources are located in the north, including coal, which is an important
    export item. Oil was discovered off the southern coast in 1986 with
    production reaching 70,000 barrels per day in 1991 and expected to increase
    in the years ahead. Following the end of the war in 1975, heavy-handed
    government measures undermined efforts at an efficient merger of the
    agricultural resources of the south and the industrial resources of the
    north. The economy remains heavily dependent on foreign aid and has received
    assistance from UN agencies, France, Australia, Sweden, and Communist
    countries. Inflation, although down from recent triple-digit levels, is
    still a major weakness and is showing signs of accelerating upwards again.
    Per capita output is among the world's lowest. Since late 1986 the
    government has sponsored a broad reform program that seeks to turn more
    economic activity over to the private sector.
GNP:
    exchange rate conversion - $15 billion, per capita $220; real growth rate
    2.5% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    80% (1991 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    30% (1991 est.)
Budget:
    revenues $551 million; expenditures $830 million, including capital
    expenditures of $58 million (1990)
Exports:
    $1.8 billion (f.o.b., 1991)
  commodities:
    agricultural and handicraft products, coal, minerals, crude petroleum, ores,
    seafood
  partners:
    Japan, Singapore, Thailand, Eastern Europe, USSR
Imports:
    $1.9 billion (c.i.f., 1991)
  commodities:
    petroleum products, steel products, railroad equipment, chemicals,
    medicines, raw cotton, fertilizer, grain
  partners:
    Japan, Singapore, Thailand, Eastern Europe, USSR
External debt:
    $16.8 billion (1990 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate -3.6% (1989); accounts for 30% of GNP
Electricity:
    3,300,000 kW capacity; 9,200 million kWh produced, 140 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    food processing, textiles, machine building, mining, cement, chemical
    fertilizer, glass, tires, oil, fishing
Agriculture:
    accounts for half of GNP; paddy rice, corn, potatoes make up 50% of farm
    output; commercial crops (rubber, soybeans, coffee, tea, bananas) and animal
    products other 50%; since 1989 self-sufficient in food staple rice; fish
    catch of 943,100 metric tons (1989 est.)

:Vietnam Economy

Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-74), $3.1 billion; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $2.9 billion; OPEC
    bilateral aid (1979-89), $61 million; Communist countries (1970-89), $12.0
    billion
Currency:
    new dong (plural - new dong); 1 new dong (D) = 100 xu
Exchange rates:
    new dong (D) per US$1 - 11,100 (May 1992), 8,100 (July 1991), 7,280
    (December 1990), 3,996 (March 1990), 2,047 (1988), 225 (1987); note -
    1985-89 figures are end of year
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Vietnam Communications

Railroads:
    3,059 km total; 2,454 1.000-meter gauge, 151 km 1.435-meter (standard)
    gauge, 230 km dual gauge (three rails), and 224 km not restored to service
    after war damage
Highways:
    about 85,000 km total; 9,400 km paved, 48,700 km gravel or improved earth,
    26,900 km unimproved earth
Inland waterways:
    about 17,702 km navigable; more than 5,149 km navigable at all times by
    vessels up to 1.8 meter draft
Pipelines:
    petroleum products 150 km
Ports:
    Da Nang, Haiphong, Ho Chi Minh City
Merchant marine:
    89 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 400,430 GRT/643,877 DWT; includes 73
    cargo 4 refrigerated cargo, 1 roll-on/roll-off, 8 petroleum tanker, 3 bulk;
    note - Vietnam owns 11 cargo ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 134,719 DWT
    under the registries of Panama and Malta
Civil air:
    controlled by military
Airports:
    100 total, 100 usable; 50 with permanent-surface runways; 10 with runways
    2,440-3,659 m; 20 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    25 telephones per 10,000 persons (1991); broadcast stations - 16 AM, 1 FM, 2
    TV; 2,300,000 TV sets; 6,000,000 radio receivers; 3 satellite earth stations

:Vietnam Defense Forces

Branches:
    Ground, Navy (including Naval Infantry), Air Force
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 16,839,400; 10,739,128 fit for military service; 787,026 reach
    military age (17) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $NA, NA% of GNP

:Virgin Islands Geography

Total area:
    352 km2
Land area:
    349 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly less than twice the size of Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    188 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    12 nm
  Continental shelf:
    200 m (depth)
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    subtropical, tempered by easterly tradewinds, relatively low humidity,
    little seasonal temperature variation; rainy season May to November
Terrain:
    mostly hilly to rugged and mountainous with little level land
Natural resources:
    sun, sand, sea, surf
Land use:
    arable land 15%; permanent crops 6%; meadows and pastures 26%; forest and
    woodland 6%; other 47%
Environment:
    rarely affected by hurricanes; subject to frequent severe droughts, floods,
    earthquakes; lack of natural freshwater resources
Note:
    important location 1,770 km southeast of Miami and 65 km east of Puerto
    Rico, along the Anegada Passage - a key shipping lane for the Panama Canal;
    Saint Thomas has one of the best natural, deepwater harbors in the Caribbean

:Virgin Islands People

Population:
    98,942 (July 1992), growth rate -1.0% (1992)
Birth rate:
    21 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    5 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    -26 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    13 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    74 years male, 77 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    2.7 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Virgin Islander(s); adjective - Virgin Islander; US citizens
Ethnic divisions:
    West Indian (45% born in the Virgin Islands and 29% born elsewhere in the
    West Indies) 74%, US mainland 13%, Puerto Rican 5%, other 8%; black 80%,
    white 15%, other 5%; Hispanic origin 14%
Religions:
    Baptist 42%, Roman Catholic 34%, Episcopalian 17%, other 7%
Languages:
    English (official), but Spanish and Creole are widely spoken
Literacy:
    NA% (male NA%, female NA%)
Labor force:
    45,500 (1988)
Organized labor:
    90% of the government labor force

:Virgin Islands Government

Long-form name:
    Virgin Islands of the United States
Type:
    organized, unincorporated territory of the US administered by the Office of
    Territorial and International Affairs, US Department of the Interior
Capital:
    Charlotte Amalie
Administrative divisions:
    none (territory of the US)
Independence:
    none (territory of the US)
Constitution:
    Revised Organic Act of 22 July 1954
Legal system:
    based on US
National holiday:
    Transfer Day (from Denmark to US), 31 March (1917)
Executive branch:
    US president, popularly elected governor and lieutenant governor
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Senate
Judicial branch:
    US District Court handles civil matters over $50,000, felonies (persons 15
    years of age and over), and federal cases; Territorial Court handles civil
    matters up to $50,000 small claims, juvenile, domestic, misdemeanors, and
    traffic cases
Leaders:
  Chief of State and Head of Government:
    President George BUSH (since 20 January 1989); Governor Alexander A.
    FARRELLY (since 5 January 1987); Lieutenant Governor Derek M. HODGE (since 5
    January 1987)
Political parties and leaders:
    Democratic Party, Marilyn STAPLETON; Independent Citizens' Movement (ICM),
    Virdin C. BROWN; Republican Party, Charlotte-Poole DAVIS
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  Governor:
    last held 6 November 1990 (next to be held November 1994); results -
    Governor Alexander FARRELLY (Democratic Party) 56.5% defeated Juan LUIS
    (independent) 38.5%
  Senate:
    last held 6 November 1990 (next to be held 3 November 1992); results -
    percent of vote by party NA; seats - (15 total) number of seats by party NA
  US House of Representatives:
    last held 6 November 1990 (next to be held 3 November 1992); results - Ron
    DE LUGO reelected as nonvoting delegate seats - (1 total); seat by party NA;
    note - the Virgin Islands elects one nonvoting representative to the US
    House of Representatives
Member of:
    ECLAC (associate), IOC, applied for associate membership in OECS in February
    1990
Diplomatic representation:
    none (territory of the US)
Flag:
    white with a modified US coat of arms in the center between the large blue
    initials V and I; the coat of arms shows an eagle holding an olive branch in
    one talon and three arrows in the other with a superimposed shield of
    vertical red and white stripes below a blue panel

:Virgin Islands Economy

Overview:
    Tourism is the primary economic activity, accounting for more than 70% of
    GDP and 70% of employment. The manufacturing sector consists of textile,
    electronics, pharmaceutical, and watch assembly plants. The agricultural
    sector is small, most food being imported. International business and
    financial services are a small but growing component of the economy. The
    world's largest petroleum refinery is at Saint Croix.
GDP:
    purchasing power equivalent - $1.2 billion, per capita $11,000; real growth
    rate NA% (1987)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    NA%
Unemployment rate:
    2.0% (1990)
Budget:
    revenues $364.4 million; expenditures $364.4 million, including capital
    expenditures of $NA (FY90)
Exports:
    $2.2 billion (f.o.b., 1988)
  commodities:
    refined petroleum products
  partners:
    US, Puerto Rico
Imports:
    $3.7 billion (c.i.f., 1988)
  commodities:
    crude oil, foodstuffs, consumer goods, building materials
  partners:
    US, Puerto Rico
External debt:
    $NA
Industrial production:
    growth rate 12%
Electricity:
    358,000 kW capacity; 532 million kWh produced, 5,360 kWh per capita (1990)
Industries:
    tourism, petroleum refining, watch assembly, rum distilling, construction,
    pharmaceuticals, textiles, electronics
Agriculture:
    truck gardens, food crops (small scale), fruit, sorghum, Senepol cattle
Economic aid:
    Western (non-US) countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $42
    million
Currency:
    US currency is used
Exchange rates:
    US currency is used
Fiscal year:
    1 October - 30 September

:Virgin Islands Communications

Highways:
    856 km total
Ports:
    Saint Croix - Christiansted, Frederiksted; Saint Thomas - Long Bay, Crown
    Bay, Red Hook; Saint John - Cruz Bay
Airports:
    2 total, 2 usable; 2 with permanent-surface runways 1,220-2,439 m;
    international airports on Saint Thomas and Saint Croix
Telecommunications:
    44,280 telephones; broadcast stations - 4 AM, 8 FM, 4 TV; modern system
    using fiber-optic cable, submarine cable, microwave radio, and satellite
    facilities; 98,000 radios; 63,000 TV (1988)

:Virgin Islands Defense Forces

Note:
    defense is the responsibility of the US

:Wake Island Geography

Total area:
    6.5 km2
Land area:
    6.5 km2
Comparative area:
    about 11 times the size of The Mall in Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    19.3 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    12 nm
  Continental shelf:
    200 m (depth)
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    claimed by the Republic of the Marshall Islands
Climate:
    tropical
Terrain:
    atoll of three coral islands built up on an underwater volcano; central
    lagoon is former crater, islands are part of the rim; average elevation less
    than four meters
Natural resources:
    none
Land use:
    arable land 0%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 0%; forest and
    woodland 0%; other 100%
Environment:
    subject to occasional typhoons
Note:
    strategic location 3,700 km west of Honolulu in the North Pacific Ocean,
    about two-thirds of the way between Hawaii and the Northern Mariana Islands;
    emergency landing location for transpacific flights

:Wake Island People

Population:
    no indigenous inhabitants; 381 temporary population (US Air Force personnel,
    civilian weather service personnel, and US and Thai contractors) (January
    1992); note - population peaked about 1970 with over 1,600 persons during
    the Vietnam conflict

:Wake Island Government

Long-form name:
    none
Type:
    unincorporated territory of the US administered by the US Air Force (under
    an agreement with the US Department of Interior) since 24 June 1972
Capital:
    none; administered from Washington, DC
Flag:
    the US flag is used

:Wake Island Economy

Overview:
    Economic activity is limited to providing services to US military personnel
    and contractors located on the island. All food and manufactured goods must
    be imported.
Electricity:
    supplied by US military

:Wake Island Communications

Ports:
    none; because of the reefs, there are only two offshore anchorages for large
    ships
Airports:
    1 with permanent-surface runways 2,440-3,659 m
Telecommunications:
    underwater cables to Guam and through Midway to Honolulu; 1 Autovon circuit
    off the Overseas Telephone System (OTS); Armed Forces Radio/Television
    Service (AFRTS) radio and television service provided by satellite;
    broadcast stations - 1 AM, no FM, no TV
Note:
    formerly an important commercial aviation base, now used only by US military
    and some commercial cargo planes

:Wake Island Defense Forces

Note:
    defense is the responsibility of the US

:Wallis and Futuna Geography

Total area:
    274 km2
Land area:
    274 km2; includes Ile Uvea (Wallis Island), Ile Futuna (Futuna Island), Ile
    Alofi, and 20 islets
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than Washington, DC
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    129 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    tropical; hot, rainy season (November to April); cool, dry season (May to
    October)
Terrain:
    volcanic origin; low hills
Natural resources:
    negligible
Land use:
    arable land 5%; permanent crops 20%; meadows and pastures 0%; forest and
    woodland 0%; other 75%
Environment:
    both island groups have fringing reefs
Note:
    located 4,600 km southwest of Honolulu in the South Pacific Ocean about
    two-thirds of the way from Hawaii to New Zealand

:Wallis and Futuna People

Population:
    17,095 (July 1992), growth rate 3.0% (1992)
Birth rate:
    27 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    6 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    8 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    29 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    70 years male, 71 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    3.6 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Wallisian(s), Futunan(s), or Wallis and Futuna Islanders; adjective -
    Wallisian, Futunan, or Wallis and Futuna Islander
Ethnic divisions:
    almost entirely Polynesian
Religions:
    largely Roman Catholic
Languages:
    French, Wallisian (indigenous Polynesian language)
Literacy:
    50% (male 50%, female 51%) at all ages can read and write (1969)
Labor force:
    NA
Organized labor:
    NA

:Wallis and Futuna Government

Long-form name:
    Territory of the Wallis and Futuna Islands
Type:
    overseas territory of France
Capital:
    Mata Utu (on Ile Uvea)
Administrative divisions:
    none (overseas territory of France)
Independence:
    none (overseas territory of France)
Constitution:
    28 September 1958 (French Constitution)
Legal system:
    French
National holiday:
    Taking of the Bastille, 14 July (1789)
Executive branch:
    French president, chief administrator; note - there are three traditional
    kings with limited powers
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Territorial Assembly (Assemblee Territoriale)
Judicial branch:
    none; justice generally administered under French law by the chief
    administrator, but the three traditional kings administer customary law and
    there is a magistrate in Mata Utu
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Francois MITTERRAND (since 21 May 1981)
  Head of Government:
    Chief Administrator Robert POMMIES (since 26 September 1990)
Political parties and leaders:
    Rally for the Republic (RPR); Union Populaire Locale (UPL); Union Pour la
    Democratie Francaise (UDF); Lua kae tahi (Giscardians); Mouvement des
    Radicaux de Gauche (MRG)
Suffrage:
    universal adult at age 18
Elections:
  Territorial Assembly:
    last held 15 March 1987 (next to be held NA March 1992); results - percent
    of vote by party NA; seats - (20 total) RPR 7, UPL 5, UDF 4, UNF 4
  French Senate:
    last held NA September 1989 (next to be held by NA September 1992); results
    - percent of vote by party NA; seats - (1 total) RPR 1
  French National Assembly:
    last held 12 June 1988 (next to be held by NA September 1992); results -
    percent of vote by party NA; seats - (1 total) MRG 1
Member of:
    FZ, SPC
Diplomatic representation:
    as an overseas territory of France, local interests are represented in the
    US by France
Flag:
    the flag of France is used

:Wallis and Futuna Economy

Overview:
    The economy is limited to traditional subsistence agriculture, with about
    80% of the labor force earning its livelihood from agriculture (coconuts and
    vegetables), livestock (mostly pigs), and fishing. About 4% of the
    population is employed in government. Revenues come from French Government
    subsidies, licensing of fishing rights to Japan and South Korea, import
    taxes, and remittances from expatriate workers in New Caledonia. Wallis and
    Futuna imports food, fuel, clothing, machinery, and transport equipment, but
    its exports are negligible, consisting of copra and handicrafts.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $25 million, per capita $1,500; real growth rate
    NA% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    NA%
Unemployment rate:
    NA%
Budget:
    revenues $2.7 million; expenditures $2.7 million, including capital
    expenditures of $NA (1983)
Exports:
    negligible
  commodities:
    copra, handicrafts
  partners:
    NA
Imports:
    $13.3 million (c.i.f., 1984)
  commodities:
    foodstuffs, manufactured goods, transportation equipment, fuel
  partners:
    France, Australia, New Zealand
External debt:
    $NA
Industrial production:
    growth rate NA%
Electricity:
    1,200 kW capacity; 1 million kWh produced, 70 kWh per capita (1990)
Industries:
    copra, handicrafts, fishing, lumber
Agriculture:
    dominated by coconut production, with subsistence crops of yams, taro,
    bananas, and herds of pigs and goats
Economic aid:
    Western (non-US) countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89),
    $118 million
Currency:
    Comptoirs Francais du Pacifique franc (plural - francs); 1 CFP franc (CFPF)
    = 100 centimes
Exchange rates:
    Comptoirs Francais du Pacifique francs (CFPF) per US$1 - 102.53 (March
    1992), 102.57 (1991), 99.0 (1990), 115.99 (1989), 108.30 (1988), 109.27
    (1987); note - linked at the rate of 18.18 to the French franc
Fiscal year:
    NA

:Wallis and Futuna Communications

Highways:
    100 km on Ile Uvea, 16 km sealed; 20 km earth surface on Ile Futuna
Inland waterways:
    none
Ports:
    Mata-Utu, Leava
Airports:
    2 total; 2 usable; 1 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways over
    2,439 m; 2 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    225 telephones; broadcast stations - 1 AM, no FM, no TV

:Wallis and Futuna Defense Forces

Note:
    defense is the responsibility of France

:West Bank Header

Note:
    The war between Israel and the Arab states in June 1967 ended with Israel in
    control of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip, the Sinai, and the Golan
    Heights. As stated in the 1978 Camp David Accords and reaffirmed by
    President Bush's post-Gulf crisis peace initiative, the final status of the
    West Bank and the Gaza Strip, their relationship with their neighbors, and a
    peace treaty between Israel and Jordan are to be negotiated among the
    concerned parties. Camp David further specifies that these negotiations will
    resolve the respective boundaries. Pending the completion of this process,
    it is US policy that the final status of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip
    has yet to be determined. In the view of the US, the term West Bank
    describes all of the area west of the Jordan River under Jordanian
    administration before the 1967 Arab-Israeli war. However, with respect to
    negotiations envisaged in the framework agreement, it is US policy that a
    distinction must be made between Jerusalem and the rest of the West Bank
    because of the city's special status and circumstances. Therefore, a
    negotiated solution for the final status of Jerusalem could be different in
    character from that of the rest of the West Bank.

:West Bank Geography

Total area:
    5,860 km2
Land area:
    5,640 km2; includes West Bank, East Jerusalem, Latrun Salient, Jerusalem No
    Man's Land, and the northwest quarter of the Dead Sea, but excludes Mt.
    Scopus
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than Delaware
Land boundaries:
    404 km total; Israel 307 km, Jordan 97 km
Coastline:
    none - landlocked
Maritime claims:
    none - landlocked
Disputes:
    Israeli occupied with status to be determined
Climate:
    temperate, temperature and precipitation vary with altitude, warm to hot
    summers, cool to mild winters
Terrain:
    mostly rugged dissected upland, some vegetation in west, but barren in east
Natural resources:
    negligible
Land use:
    arable land 27%, permanent crops 0%, meadows and pastures 32%, forest and
    woodland 1%, other 40%
Environment:
    highlands are main recharge area for Israel's coastal aquifers
Note:
    landlocked; there are 175 Jewish settlements in the West Bank and 14
    Israeli-built Jewish neighborhoods in East Jerusalem

:West Bank People

Population:
    1,362,464 (July 1992), growth rate 3.1% (1992); in addition, there are
    95,000 Jewish settlers in the West Bank and 132,000 in East Jerusalem (1992
    est.)
Birth rate:
    35 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    6 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    2 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    37 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    68 years male, 71 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    4.5 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    NA
Ethnic divisions:
    Palestinian Arab and other 88%, Jewish 12%
Religions:
    Muslim (predominantly Sunni) 80%, Jewish 12%, Christian and other 8%
Languages:
    Arabic, Israeli settlers speak Hebrew, English widely understood
Literacy:
    NA% (male NA%, female NA%)
Labor force:
    NA; excluding Israeli Jewish settlers - small industry, commerce, and
    business 29.8%, construction 24.2%, agriculture 22.4%, service and other
    23.6% (1984)
Organized labor:
    NA

:West Bank Government

Long-form name:
    none
Note:
    The West Bank is currently governed by Israeli military authorities and
    Israeli civil administration. It is US policy that the final status of the
    West Bank will be determined by negotiations among the concerned parties.
    These negotiations will determine how the area is to governed.

:West Bank Economy

Overview:
    Economic progress in the West Bank has been hampered by Israeli military
    administration and the effects of the Palestinian uprising (intifadah).
    Industries using advanced technology or requiring sizable investment have
    been discouraged by a lack of local capital and restrictive Israeli
    policies. Capital investment consists largely of residential housing, not
    productive assets that would enable local firms to compete with Israeli
    industry. A major share of GNP is derived from remittances of workers
    employed in Israel and Persian Gulf states, but such transfers from the Gulf
    dropped dramatically after Iraq invaded Kuwait in August 1990. In the wake
    of the Persian Gulf crisis, many Palestinians have returned to the West
    Bank, increasing unemployment, and export revenues have plunged because of
    the loss of markets in Jordan and the Gulf states. Israeli measures to
    curtail the intifadah also have pushed unemployment up and lowered living
    standards. The area's economic outlook remains bleak.
GNP:
    exchange rate conversion - $1.3 billion, per capita $1,200; real growth rate
    -10% (1990 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    11% (1991 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    15% (1990 est.)
Budget:
    revenues $31.0 million; expenditures $36.1 million, including capital
    expenditures of $NA (FY88)
Exports:
    $150 million (f.o.b., 1988 est.)
  commodities:
    NA
  partners:
    Jordan, Israel
Imports:
    $410 million (c.i.f., 1988 est.)
  commodities:
    NA
  partners:
    Jordan, Israel
External debt:
    $NA
Industrial production:
    growth rate 1% (1989); accounts for about 4% of GNP
Electricity:
    power supplied by Israel
Industries:
    generally small family businesses that produce cement, textiles, soap,
    olive-wood carvings, and mother-of-pearl souvenirs; the Israelis have
    established some small-scale modern industries in the settlements and
    industrial centers
Agriculture:
    accounts for about 15% of GNP; olives, citrus and other fruits, vegetables,
    beef, and dairy products
Economic aid:
    NA
Currency:
    new Israeli shekel (plural - shekels) and Jordanian dinar (plural - dinars);
    1 new Israeli shekel (NIS) = 100 new agorot and 1 Jordanian dinar (JD) =
    1,000 fils

:West Bank Economy

Exchange rates:
    new Israeli shekels (NIS) per US$1 - 2.4019 (March 1992), 2.2791 (1991),
    2.0162 (1990), 1.9164 (1989), 1.5989 (1988), 1.5946 (1987); Jordanian dinars
    (JD) per US$1 - 0.6760 (January 1992), 0.6810 (1991), 0.6636 (1990), 0.5704
    (1989), 0.3709 (1988), 0.3387 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    previously 1 April - 31 March; FY91 was 1 April - 31 December, and since 1
    January 1992 the fiscal year has conformed to the calendar year

:West Bank Communications

Highways:
    small road network, Israelis developing east-west axial highways to service
    new settlements
Airports:
    2 total, 2 usable; 2 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways over
    2,439 m; 1 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    open-wire telephone system currently being upgraded; broadcast stations - no
    AM, no FM, no TV

:West Bank Defense Forces

Branches:
    NA
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, NA; NA fit for military service
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $NA, NA% of GDP

:Western Sahara Geography

Total area:
    266,000 km2
Land area:
    266,000 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than Colorado
Land boundaries:
    2,046 km total; Algeria 42 km, Mauritania 1,561 km, Morocco 443 km
Coastline:
    1,110 km
Maritime claims:
    contingent upon resolution of sovereignty issue
Disputes:
    claimed and administered by Morocco, but sovereignty is unresolved and the
    UN is attempting to hold a referendum on the issue; the UN-administered
    cease-fire has been currently in effect since September 1991
Climate:
    hot, dry desert; rain is rare; cold offshore currents produce fog and heavy
    dew
Terrain:
    mostly low, flat desert with large areas of rocky or sandy surfaces rising
    to small mountains in south and northeast
Natural resources:
    phosphates, iron ore
Land use:
    arable land NEGL%; permanent crops 0%; meadows and pastures 19%; forest and
    woodland 0%; other 81%
Environment:
    hot, dry, dust/sand-laden sirocco wind can occur during winter and spring;
    widespread harmattan haze exists 60% of time, often severely restricting
    visibility; sparse water and arable land

:Western Sahara People

Population:
    201,467 (July 1992), growth rate 2.6% (1992)
Birth rate:
    48 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    20 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    -2 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    159 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    43 years male, 45 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    7.1 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Sahrawi(s), Sahraoui(s); adjective - Sahrawian, Sahraouian
Ethnic divisions:
    Arab and Berber
Religions:
    Muslim
Languages:
    Hassaniya Arabic, Moroccan Arabic
Literacy:
    NA% (male NA%, female NA%)
Labor force:
    12,000; 50% animal husbandry and subsistence farming
Organized labor:
    NA

:Western Sahara Government

Long-form name:
    none
Type:
    legal status of territory and question of sovereignty unresolved; territory
    contested by Morocco and Polisario Front (Popular Front for the Liberation
    of the Saguia el Hamra and Rio de Oro), which in February 1976 formally
    proclaimed a government in exile of the Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic
    (SADR); territory partitioned between Morocco and Mauritania in April 1976,
    with Morocco acquiring northern two-thirds; Mauritania, under pressure from
    Polisario guerrillas, abandoned all claims to its portion in August 1979;
    Morocco moved to occupy that sector shortly thereafter and has since
    asserted administrative control; the Polisario's government in exile was
    seated as an OAU member in 1984; guerrilla activities continued
    sporadically, until a UN-monitored cease-fire was implemented 6 September
    1991
Capital:
    none
Administrative divisions:
    none (under de facto control of Morocco)
Leaders:
    none
Member of:
    none
Diplomatic representation:
    none

:Western Sahara Economy

Overview:
    Western Sahara, a territory poor in natural resources and having little
    rainfall, has a per capita GDP of roughly $300. Pastoral nomadism, fishing,
    and phosphate mining are the principal sources of income for the population.
    Most of the food for the urban population must be imported. All trade and
    other economic activities are controlled by the Moroccan Government.
GDP:
    $60 million, per capita $300; real growth rate NA% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    NA%
Unemployment rate:
    NA%
Budget:
    revenues $NA; expenditures $NA, including capital expenditures of $NA
Exports:
    $8 million (f.o.b., 1982 est.)
  commodities:
    phosphates 62%
  partners:
    Morocco claims and administers Western Sahara, so trade partners are
    included in overall Moroccan accounts
Imports:
    $30 million (c.i.f., 1982 est.)
  commodities:
    fuel for fishing fleet, foodstuffs
  partners:
    Morocco claims and administers Western Sahara, so trade partners are
    included in overall Moroccan accounts
External debt:
    $NA
Industrial production:
    growth rate NA%
Electricity:
    60,000 kW capacity; 79 million kWh produced, 425 kWh per capita (1989)
Industries:
    phosphate, fishing, handicrafts
Agriculture:
    limited largely to subsistence agriculture; some barley is grown in
    nondrought years; fruit and vegetables are grown in the few oases; food
    imports are essential; camels, sheep, and goats are kept by the nomadic
    natives; cash economy exists largely for the garrison forces
Economic aid:
    NA
Currency:
    Moroccan dirham (plural - dirhams); 1 Moroccan dirham (DH) = 100 centimes
Exchange rates:
    Moroccan dirhams (DH) per US$1 - 8.889 (March 1992), 8.071 (1991), 8.242
    (1990), 8.488 (1989), 8.209 (1988), 8.359 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    NA

:Western Sahara Communications

Highways:
    6,200 km total; 1,450 km surfaced, 4,750 km improved and unimproved earth
    roads and tracks
Ports:
    El Aaiun, Ad Dakhla
Airports:
    13 total, 13 usable; 3 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 3 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 5 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    sparse and limited system; tied into Morocco's system by microwave,
    tropospheric scatter, and 2 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT earth stations linked to
    Rabat, Morocco; 2,000 telephones; broadcast stations - 2 AM, no FM, 2 TV

:Western Sahara Defense Forces

Branches:
    NA
Manpower availability:
    NA
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $NA, NA% of GDP

:Western Samoa Geography

Total area:
    2,860 km2
Land area:
    2,850 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly smaller than Rhode Island
Land boundaries:
    none
Coastline:
    403 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    none
Climate:
    tropical; rainy season (October to March), dry season (May to October)
Terrain:
    narrow coastal plain with volcanic, rocky, rugged mountains in interior
Natural resources:
    hardwood forests, fish
Land use:
    arable land 19%; permanent crops 24%; meadows and pastures NEGL%; forest and
    woodland 47%; other 10%
Environment:
    subject to occasional typhoons; active volcanism
Note:
    located 4,300 km southwest of Honolulu in the South Pacific Ocean about
    halfway between Hawaii and New Zealand

:Western Samoa People

Population:
    194,992 (July 1992), growth rate 2.4% (1992)
Birth rate:
    34 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    6 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    -4 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    40 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    65 years male, 70 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    4.4 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Western Samoan(s); adjective - Western Samoan
Ethnic divisions:
    Samoan; Euronesians (persons of European and Polynesian blood) about 7%,
    Europeans 0.4%
Religions:
    Christian 99.7% (about half of population associated with the London
    Missionary Society; includes Congregational, Roman Catholic, Methodist,
    Latter Day Saints, Seventh-Day Adventist)
Languages:
    Samoan (Polynesian), English
Literacy:
    97% (male 97%, female 97%) age 15 and over can read and write (1971)
Labor force:
    38,000; 22,000 employed in agriculture (1987 est.)
Organized labor:
    Public Service Association (PSA)

:Western Samoa Government

Long-form name:
    Independent State of Western Samoa
Type:
    constitutional monarchy under native chief
Capital:
    Apia
Administrative divisions:
    11 districts; A`ana, Aiga-i-le-Tai, Atua, Fa`asaleleaga, Gaga`emauga,
    Gagaifomauga, Palauli, Satupa`itea, Tuamasaga, Va`a-o-Fonoti, Vaisigano
Independence:
    1 January 1962 (from UN trusteeship administered by New Zealand)
Constitution:
    1 January 1962
Legal system:
    based on English common law and local customs; judicial review of
    legislative acts with respect to fundamental rights of the citizen; has not
    accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
National holiday:
    National Day, 1 June
Executive branch:
    chief, Executive Council, prime minister, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Legislative Assembly (Fono)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court, Court of Appeal
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    Chief Susuga Malietoa TANUMAFILI II (Co-Chief of State from 1 January 1962
    until becoming sole Chief of State on 5 April 1963)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister TOFILAU Eti Alesana (since 7 April 1988)
Political parties and leaders:
    Human Rights Protection Party (HRPP), TOFILAU Eti, chairman; Samoan National
    Development Party (SNDP), VA'AI Kolone, chairman
Suffrage:
    universal adult over age 21, but only matai (head of family) are able to run
    for the Legislative Assembly
Elections:
  Legislative Assembly:
    last held NA February 1991 (next to be held by NA February 1994); results -
    percent of vote by party NA; seats - (47 total) HRPP 30, SNDP 14,
    independents 3
Member of:
    ACP, AsDB, C, ESCAP, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICFTU, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IMF, IOC, ITU,
    LORCS, SPC, SPF, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UPU, WHO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Fili (Felix) Tuaopepe WENDT; Chancery (temporary) at suite 510,
    1155 15th Street NW, Washington, DC 20005; telephone (202) 833-1743
  US:
    the ambassador to New Zealand is accredited to Western Samoa (mailing
    address is P.O. Box 3430, Apia); telephone (685) 21-631; FAX (685) 22-030
Flag:
    red with a blue rectangle in the upper hoist-side quadrant bearing five
    white five-pointed stars representing the Southern Cross constellation

:Western Samoa Economy

Overview:
    Agriculture employs more than half of the labor force, contributes 50% to
    GDP, and furnishes 90% of exports. The bulk of export earnings comes from
    the sale of coconut oil and copra. The economy depends on emigrant
    remittances and foreign aid to support a level of imports several times
    export earnings. Tourism has become the most important growth industry, and
    construction of the first international hotel is under way.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $115 million, per capita $690 (1989); real growth
    rate -4.5% (1990 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    15% (1990)
Unemployment rate:
    NA%; shortage of skilled labor
Budget:
    revenues $95.3 million; expenditures $95.4 million, including capital
    expenditures of $41 million (FY92)
Exports:
    $9 million (f.o.b., 1990)
  commodities:
    coconut oil and cream 54%, taro 12%, copra 9%, cocoa 3%
  partners:
    NZ 28%, American Samoa 23%, Germany 22%, US 6% (1990)
Imports:
    $75 million (c.i.f., 1990)
  commodities:
    intermediate goods 58%, food 17%, capital goods 12%
  partners:
    New Zealand 41%, Australia 18%, Japan 13%, UK 6%, US 6%
External debt:
    $83 million (December 1990 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate -4% (1990 est.); accounts for 14% of GDP
Electricity:
    29,000 kW capacity; 45 million kWh produced, 240 kWh per capita (1990)
Industries:
    timber, tourism, food processing, fishing
Agriculture:
    accounts for 50% of GDP; coconuts, fruit (including bananas, taro, yams)
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $18 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $306 million; OPEC
    bilateral aid (1979-89), $4 million
Currency:
    tala (plural - tala); 1 tala (WS$) = 100 sene
Exchange rates:
    tala (WS$) per US$1 - 2,4284 (March 1992), 2,3975 (1991), 2.3095 (1990),
    2.2686 (1989), 2.0790 (1988), 2.1204 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Western Samoa Communications

Highways:
    2,042 km total; 375 km sealed; remainder mostly gravel, crushed stone, or
    earth
Ports:
    Apia
Merchant marine:
    1 roll-on/roll-off ship (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 3,838 GRT/5,536 DWT
Civil air:
    3 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    3 total, 3 usable; 1 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways over
    3,659 m; 1 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; none with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    7,500 telephones; 70,000 radios; broadcast stations - 1 AM, no FM, no TV; 1
    Pacific Ocean INTELSAT ground station

:Western Samoa Defense Forces

Branches:
    Department of Police and Prisons
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, NA; NA fit for military service
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $NA, NA% of GDP

:World Geography

Total area:
    510,072,000 km2
Land area:
    148,940,000 km2 (29.2%)
Comparative area:
    land area about 16 times the size of the US
Land boundaries:
    442,000 km
Coastline:
    356,000 km
Maritime claims:
    range from 3 to 200 nm; 1 claim is rectangular; 112 states claim a 12 nm
    limit; note - boundary situations with neighboring states prevent many
    countries from extending their fishing or economic zones to a full 200 nm;
    41 nations and other areas are landlocked and include Afghanistan, Andorra,
    Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Burkina,
    Burundi, Central African Republic, Chad, Czechoslovakia, Hungary,
    Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Lesotho, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Macedonia,
    Malawi, Mali, Moldova, Mongolia, Nepal, Niger, Paraguay, Rwanda, San Marino,
    Swaziland, Switzerland, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Uganda, Uzbekistan,
    Vatican City, West Bank, Zambia, Zimbabwe
  Contiguous zone:
    39 states claim contiguous zone, 33 of which have 24 nm limits
  Continental shelf:
    approximately 78 states have specific continental shelf claims, the limit of
    42 claims is based on depth (200 m) plus exploitability, 21 claims define
    the continental shelf as 200 nm or to the edge of the continental margin
  Exclusive fishing zone:
    23 claims with limits ranging from 12 nm to 200 nm
  Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ):
    83 states claim an EEZ, with most limits being 200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    claims range from 3 to 200 nm, 112 states claim a 12 nm limit; note - 41
    nations and miscellaneous areas are landlocked and comprise Afghanistan,
    Andorra, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Burkina,
    Burundi, Byelarus, Central African Republic, Chad, Czechoslovakia, Hungary,
    Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Lesotho, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Macebia,
    Zimbabwe
Disputes:
    major international land boundary or territorial diputes - Bahrain-Qatar,
    Chad-Libya, China-India, China-Russia, Ecuador-Peru, El Salvador-Honduras,
    Israel-Jordan, Israel-Syria, Japan-Russia, North Korea-South Korea, Saudi
    Arabia-Yemen, South China Sea
Climate:
    two large areas of polar climates separated by two rather narrow temperate
    zones from a wide equatorial band of tropical to subtropical climates
Terrain:
    highest elevation is Mt. Everest at 8,848 meters and lowest depression is
    the Dead Sea at 392 meters below sea level; greatest ocean depth is the
    Marianas Trench at 10,924 meters
Natural resources:
    the rapid using up of nonrenewable mineral resources, the depletion of
    forest areas and wetlands, the extinction of animal and plant species, and
    the deterioration in air and water quality (especially in Eastern Europe and
    the former USSR) pose serious long-term problems that governments and
    peoples are only beginning to address
Land use:
    arable land 10%; permanent crops 1%; meadows and pastures 24%; forest and
    woodland 31%; other 34%; includes irrigated 1.6%

:World Geography

Environment:
    large areas subject to severe weather (tropical cyclones), natural disasters
    (earthquakes, landslides, tsunamis, volcanic eruptions), overpopulation,
    industrial disasters, pollution (air, water, acid rain, toxic substances),
    loss of vegetation (overgrazing, deforestation, desertification), loss of
    wildlife resources, soil degradation, soil depletion, erosion

:World People

Population:
    5,515,617,484 (July 1992), growth rate 1.7% (1992)
Birth rate:
    26 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    9 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    63 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    61 years male, 65 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    3.3 children born/woman (1992)
Literacy:
    74% (male 81%, female 67%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    2.24 billion (1992)
Organized labor:
    NA

:World Government

Administrative divisions:
    187 sovereign nations plus 72 dependent, other, and miscellaneous areas
Legal system:
    varies by individual country; 182 are parties to the United Nations
    International Court of Justice (ICJ or World Court)
Diplomatic representation:
    there are 178 members of the UN

:World Economy

Overview:
    Aggregate world output in 1991 increased by 1.3%, in contrast to estimated
    2% growth in 1990 and 3% growth in 1989. In 1991, the developed countries
    grew by 2.5% and the LDCs by 3.5%, these gains being offset by a 10-15% drop
    in the former Communist-dominated areas of the USSR and Eastern Europe. As
    usual, results among individual countries differed widely. In the developed
    group, Japan led with 4.5%, the West European members averaged 1.2%, and the
    recession-plagued United States lagged,with GDP down 0.7%. As for the 15
    former Soviet republics and the seven nations of Eastern Europe, output
    plummeted in many economic sectors because of fundamental changes in the
    rules of the game and in the channels of production and exchange. China and
    the Four Dragons performed well in 1991 but many of the other developing
    countries are mired in poverty and political instability. For the world as a
    whole, the addition of nearly 100 million people each year to an already
    overcrowded globe will exacerbate the problems of pollution,
    desertification, underemployment, epidemics, and famine.
GWP (gross world product):
    purchasing power equivalent - $25 trillion, per capita $4,600; real growth
    rate 1.3% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    developed countries 5%; developing countries 50%, with wide variations (1991
    est.)
Unemployment rate:
    NA%
Exports:
    $3.34 trillion (f.o.b., 1991 est.)
  commodities:
    the whole range of industrial and agricultural goods and services
  partners:
    in value, about 75% of exports from developed countries
Imports:
    $3.49 trillion (c.i.f., 1991 est.)
  commodities:
    the whole range of industrial and agricultural goods and services
  partners:
    in value, about 75% of imports by the developed countries
External debt:
    $1.0 trillion for less developed countries (1991 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 3% (1990 est.)
Electricity:
    2,864,000,000 kW capacity; 11,450,000 million kWh produced, 2,150 kWh per
    capita (1990)
Industries:
    industry worldwide is dominated by the onrush of technology, especially in
    computers, robotics, telecommunications, and medicines and medical
    equipment; most of these advances take place in OECD nations; only a small
    portion of non-OECD countries have succeeded in rapidly adjusting to these
    technological forces, and the technological gap between the industrial
    nations and the less-developed countries continues to widen; the rapid
    development of new industrial (and agricultural) technology is complicating
    already grim environmental problems

:World Economy

Agriculture:
    the production of major food crops has increased substantially in the last
    20 years. The annual production of cereals, for instance, has risen by 50%,
    from about 1.2 billion metric tons to about 1.8 billion metric tons;
    production increases have resulted mainly from increased yields rather than
    increases in planted areas; while global production is sufficient for
    aggregate demand, about one-fifth of the world's population remains
    malnourished, primarily because local production cannot adequately provide
    for large and rapidly growing populations, which are too poor to pay for
    food imports; conditions are especially bad in Africa where drought in
    recent years has exacerbated the consequences of all other factors
Economic aid:
    NA

:World Communications

Railroads:
    239,430 km of narrow gauge track; 710,754 km of standard gauge track;
    251,153 km of broad gauge track; includes about 190,000 to 195,000 km of
    electrified routes of which 147,760 km are in Europe, 24,509 km in the Far
    East, 11,050 km in Africa, 4,223 km in South America, and only 4,160 km in
    North America; fastest speed in daily service is 300 km/hr attained by
    France's SNCF TGV-Atlantique line
Ports:
    Mina al Ahmadi (Kuwait), Chiba, Houston, Kawasaki, Kobe, Marseille, New
    Orleans, New York, Rotterdam, Yokohama
Merchant marine:
    23,596 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 386,736,000 GRT/637,493,000 DWT;
    includes 348 passenger-cargo, 12,441 freighters, 5,446 bulk carriers, and
    5,361 tankers (January 1991)
Civil air:
    14,500-16,000 major transport aircraft with gross take-off weight of 9,000
    kg (20,000 lbs) or more (1992 est.)

:World Defense Forces

Branches:
    ground, maritime, and air forces at all levels of technology
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 1,400,000,000; NA fit for military service
Defense expenditures:
    $1.0 trillion, 4% of total world output; decline of 5-10% (1991 est.)

:Yemen Geography

Total area:
    527,970 km2
Land area:
    527,970 km2; includes Perim, Socotra, the former Yemen Arab Republic (YAR or
    North Yemen), and the former People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY or
    South Yemen)
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than twice the size of Wyoming
Land boundaries:
    1,746 km total; Oman 288 km, Saudi Arabia 1,458 km
Coastline:
    1,906 km
Maritime claims:
  Contiguous zone:
    North - 18 nm; South - 24 nm
  Continental shelf:
    North - 200 meters (depth); South - edge of continental margin or 200 nm
  Exclusive economic zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    undefined section of boundary with Saudi Arabia; Administrative Line with
    Oman; there is a proposed treaty with Oman (which has not yet been formerly
    accepted) to settle the Yemeni-Omani boundary
Climate:
    mostly desert; hot and humid along west coast; temperate in western
    mountains affected by seasonal monsoon; extraordinarily hot, dry, harsh
    desert in east
Terrain:
    narrow coastal plain backed by flat-topped hills and rugged mountains;
    dissected upland desert plains in center slope into the desert interior of
    the Arabian Peninsula
Natural resources:
    crude oil, fish, rock salt, marble; small deposits of coal, gold, lead,
    nickel, and copper; fertile soil in west
Land use:
    arable land 6%; permanent crops NEGL%; meadows and pastures 30%; forest and
    woodland 7%; other 57%; includes irrigated NEGL%
Environment:
    subject to sand and dust storms in summer; scarcity of natural freshwater
    resources; overgrazing; soil erosion; desertification
Note:
    controls Bab el Mandeb, the strait linking the Red Sea and the Gulf of Aden,
    one of world's most active shipping lanes

:Yemen People

Population:
    10,394,749 (July 1992), growth rate 3.3% (1992)
Birth rate:
    51 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    16 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    -3 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    118 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    49 years male, 52 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    7.3 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Yemeni(s); adjective - Yemeni
Ethnic divisions:
    North - Arab 90%, Afro-Arab (mixed) 10%; South - almost all Arabs; a few
    Indians, Somalis, and Europeans
Religions:
    North - Muslim almost 100% (45% Sunni and 55% Zaydi Shi`a); NEGL Jewish;
    South - Sunni Muslim, some Christian and Hindu
Languages:
    Arabic
Literacy:
    38% (male 53%, female 26%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    North - NA number of workers with agriculture and herding 70%, and
    expatriate laborers 30% (est.); South - 477,000 with agriculture 45.2%,
    services 21.2%, construction 13.4%, industry 10.6%, commerce and other 9.6%
    (1983)
Organized labor:
    North - NA; South - 348,200 and the General Confederation of Workers of the
    People's Democratic Republic of Yemen had 35,000 members

:Yemen Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Yemen
Type:
    republic
Capital:
    Sanaa
Administrative divisions:
    17 governorates (muhafazat, singular - muhafazah); Abyan, `Adan, Al Bayda',
    Al Hudaydah, Al Jawf, Al Mahrah, Al Mahwit, Dhamar, Hadramawt, Hajjah, Ibb,
    Lahij, Ma'rib, Sa`dah, San`a', Shabwah, Ta`izz
Independence:
    Republic of Yemen was established on 22 May 1990 with the merger of the
    Yemen Arab Republic {Yemen (Sanaa) or North Yemen} and the Marxist-dominated
    People's Democratic Republic of Yemen {Yemen (Aden) or South Yemen};
    previously North Yemen had become independent on NA November 1918 (from the
    Ottoman Empire) and South Yemen had become independent on 30 November 1967
    (from the UK); the union is to be solidified during a 30-month transition
    period, which coincides with the remainder of the five-year terms of both
    legislatures
Constitution:
    16 April 1991
Legal system:
    based on Islamic law, Turkish law, English common law, and local customary
    law; does not accept compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
National holiday:
    Proclamation of the Republic, 22 May (1990)
Executive branch:
    five-member Presidential Council (president, vice president, two members
    from northern Yemen and one member from southern Yemen), prime minister
Legislative branch:
    unicameral House of Representatives
Judicial branch:
    North - State Security Court; South - Federal High Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State and Head of Government:
    President `Ali `Abdallah SALIH (since 22 May 1990, the former president of
    North Yemen); Vice President Ali Salim al-BIDH (since 22 May 1990, and
    Secretary General of the Yemeni Socialist Party); Presidential Council
    Member Salim Salih MUHAMMED; Presidential Council Member Kadi Abdul-Karim
    al-ARASHI; Presidential Council Member Abdul-Aziz ABDUL-GHANI; Prime
    Minister Haydar Abu Bakr al-`ATTAS (since 22 May 1990, former president of
    South Yemen)
Political parties and leaders:
    General People's Congress, `Ali `Abdallah SALIH; Yemeni Socialist Party
    (YSP; formerly South Yemen's ruling party - a coalition of National Front,
    Ba`th, and Communist Parties), Ali Salim al-BIDH; Yemen Grouping for Reform
    or Islaah, Abdallah Husayn AHMAR
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  House of Representatives:
    last held NA (next to be held NA November 1992); results - percent of vote
    NA; seats - (301); number of seats by party NA; note - the 301 members of
    the new House of Representatives come from North Yemen's Consultative
    Assembly (159 members), South Yemen's Supreme People's Council (111
    members), and appointments by the New Presidential Council (31 members)
Communists:
    small number in North, greater but unknown number in South

:Yemen Government

Other political or pressure groups:
    conservative tribal groups, Muslim Brotherhood, leftist factions - pro-Iraqi
    Ba`thists, Nasirists, National Democratic Front (NDF)
Member of:
    ACC, AFESD, AL, AMF, CAEU, ESCWA, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, IDA, IDB, IFAD,
    IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, ITU, LORCS, NAM, OIC, UN,
    UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador Muhsin Ahmad al-AYNI; Chancery at Suite 840, 600 New Hampshire
    Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20037; telephone (202) 965-4760 or 4761; there is
    a Yemeni Consulate General in Detroit and a Consulate in San Francisco
  US:
    Ambassador Arthur H. HUGHES; Embassy at Dhahr Himyar Zone, Sheraton Hotel
    District, Sanaa (mailing address is P. O. Box 22347 Sanaa, Republic of Yemen
    or Sanaa - Department of State, Washington, DC 20521-6330); telephone [967]
    (2) 238-842 through 238-852; FAX [967] (2) 251-563
Flag:
    three equal horizontal bands of red (top), white, and black; similar to the
    flag of Syria which has two green stars and of Iraq which has three green
    stars (plus an Arabic inscription) in a horizontal line centered in the
    white band; also similar to the flag of Egypt which has a symbolic eagle
    centered in the white band

:Yemen Economy

Overview:
    Whereas the northern city Sanaa is the political capital of a united Yemen,
    the southern city Aden, with its refinery and port facilities, is the
    economic and commercial capital. Future economic development depends heavily
    on Western-assisted development of promising oil resources. South Yemen's
    willingness to merge stemmed partly from the steady decline in Soviet
    economic support.
Overview:
  North:
    The low level of domestic industry and agriculture have made northern Yemen
    dependent on imports for virtually all of its essential needs. Large trade
    deficits have been made up for by remittances from Yemenis working abroad
    and foreign aid. Once self-sufficient in food production, northern Yemen has
    become a major importer. Land once used for export crops - cotton, fruit,
    and vegetables - has been turned over to growing qat, a mildly narcotic
    shrub chewed by Yemenis which has no significant export market. Oil export
    revenues started flowing in late 1987 and boosted 1988 earnings by about
    $800 million.
  South:
    This has been one of the poorest Arab countries, with a per capita GNP of
    about $500. A shortage of natural resources, a widely dispersed population,
    and an arid climate have made economic development difficult. The economy
    has grown at an average annual rate of only 2-3% since the mid-1970s. The
    economy had been organized along socialist lines, dominated by the public
    sector. Economic growth has been constrained by a lack of incentives, partly
    stemming from centralized control over production decisions, investment
    allocation, and import choices.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $5.3 billion, per capita $545; real growth rate
    NA% (1990 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
  North:
    16.9% (1988)
  South:
    0% (1989)
Unemployment rate:
  North:
    13% (1986)
  South:
    NA%
Budget:
  North:
    revenues $1.4 billion; expenditures $2.2 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $590 million (1988 est.)
  South:
    revenues and grants $435 million; expenditures $1.0 billion, including
    capital expenditure of $460 million (1988 est.)
Exports:
  North:
    $606 million (f.o.b., 1989)
  commodities:
    crude oil, cotton, coffee, hides, vegetables
  partners:
    FRG 29%, US 26%, Netherlands 12%
  South:
    $113.8 million (f.o.b., 1989 est.)
  commodities:
    cotton, hides, skins, dried and salted fish

:Yemen Economy

  partners:
    Japan, North Yemen, Italy
Imports:
  North:
    $1.3 billion (f.o.b., 1988)
Imports:
  commodities:
    textiles and other manufactured consumer goods, petroleum products, sugar,
    grain, flour, other foodstuffs, and cement
  partners:
    Saudi Arabia 12%, France 6%, US 5%, Australia 5% (1985)
  South:
    $553.9 million (f.o.b., 1989 est.)
  commodities:
    grain, consumer goods, crude oil, machinery, chemicals
  partners:
    USSR, UK, Ethiopia
External debt:
    $5.75 billion (December 1989 est.)
Industrial production:
  North:
    growth rate 2% in manufacturing (1988)
  South:
    growth rate NA% in manufacturing
Electricity:
    700,000 kW capacity; 1,200 million kWh produced, 120 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    crude oil production and petroleum refining; small-scale production of
    cotton textiles and leather goods; food processing; handicrafts; fishing;
    small aluminum products factory; cement
Agriculture:
  North:
    accounted for 26% of GDP and 70% of labor force; farm products - grain,
    fruits, vegetables, qat (mildly narcotic shrub), coffee, cotton, dairy,
    poultry, meat, goat meat; not self-sufficient in grain
  South:
    accounted for 17% of GNP and 45% of labor force; products - grain, qat
    (mildly narcotic shrub), coffee, fish, livestock; fish and honey major
    exports; most food imported
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $389 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $2.0 billion; OPEC
    bilateral aid (1979-89), $3.2 billion; Communist countries (1970-89), $2.4
    billion
Currency:
    North Yemeni riyal (plural - riyals); 1 North Yemeni riyal (YR) = 100 fils;
    South Yemeni dinar (plural - dinars); 1 South Yemeni dinar (YD) = 1,000 fils
Exchange rates:
    North Yemeni riyals (YR) per US$1 - 12,1000 (June 1992), 12.0000 (1991),
    9.7600 (1990), 9.7600 (January 1989), 9.7717 (1988), 10.3417 (1987); South
    Yemeni dinars (YD) per US$1 - 0.3454 (fixed rate)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Yemen Communications

Highways:
    15,500 km; 4,000 km paved, 11,500 km natural surface (est.)
Pipelines:
    crude oil 644 km, petroleum products 32 km
Ports:
    Aden, Al Hudaydah, Al Khalf, Mocha, Nishtun, Ra's Kathib, Salif
Merchant marine:
    3 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 4,309 GRT/6,568 DWT; includes 2 cargo,
    1 petroleum tanker
Civil air:
    11 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    46 total, 40 usable; 10 with permanent-surface runways; none with runways
    over 3,659 m; 20 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 11 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    since unification in 1990, efforts are being made to create a national
    domestic civil telecommunications network and to revitalize the
    infrastructure of a united Yemen; the network consists of microwave, cable
    and troposcatter; 65,000 telephones (est.); broadcast stations - 4 AM, 1 FM,
    10 TV; satellite earth stations - 2 Indian Ocean INTELSAT, 1 Atlantic Ocean
    INTELSAT, 1 Intersputnik, 2 ARABSAT; microwave to Saudi Arabia, and Djibouti

:Yemen Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Navy, Air Force, Police
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 1,981,710; 1,127,391 fit for military service; 130,405 reach
    military age (14) annually
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $1.06 billion, 20% of GDP (1990)

:Zaire Geography

Total area:
    2,345,410 km2
Land area:
    2,267,600 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly more than one-quarter the size of US
Land boundaries:
    10,271 km total; Angola 2,511 km, Burundi 233 km, Central African Republic
    1,577 km, Congo 2,410 km, Rwanda 217 km, Sudan 628 km, Uganda 765 km, Zambia
    1,930 km
Coastline:
    37 km
Maritime claims:
  Exclusive fishing zone:
    200 nm
  Territorial sea:
    12 nm
Disputes:
    Tanzania-Zaire-Zambia tripoint in Lake Tanganyika may no longer be
    indefinite since it is reported that the indefinite section of the
    Zaire-Zambia boundary has been settled; long section with Congo along the
    Congo River is indefinite (no division of the river or its islands has been
    made)
Climate:
    tropical; hot and humid in equatorial river basin; cooler and drier in
    southern highlands; cooler and wetter in eastern highlands; north of Equator
    - wet season April to October, dry season December to February; south of
    Equator - wet season November to March, dry season April to October
Terrain:
    vast central basin is a low-lying plateau; mountains in east
Natural resources:
    cobalt, copper, cadmium, crude oil, industrial and gem diamonds, gold,
    silver, zinc, manganese, tin, germanium, uranium, radium, bauxite, iron ore,
    coal, hydropower potential
Land use:
    arable land 3%; permanent crops NEGL%; meadows and pastures 4%; forest and
    woodland 78%; other 15%; includes irrigated NEGL%
Environment:
    dense tropical rain forest in central river basin and eastern highlands;
    periodic droughts in south
Note:
    straddles Equator; very narrow strip of land that controls the lower Congo
    River and is only outlet to South Atlantic Ocean

:Zaire People

Population:
    39,084,400 (July 1992), growth rate 3.3% (1992)
Birth rate:
    45 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    13 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    0 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    97 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    52 years male, 56 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    6.1 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Zairian(s); adjective - Zairian
Ethnic divisions:
    over 200 African ethnic groups, the majority are Bantu; four largest tribes
    - Mongo, Luba, Kongo (all Bantu), and the Mangbetu-Azande (Hamitic) make up
    about 45% of the population
Religions:
    Roman Catholic 50%, Protestant 20%, Kimbanguist 10%, Muslim 10%, other
    syncretic sects and traditional beliefs 10%
Languages:
    French (official), Lingala, Swahili, Kingwana, Kikongo, Tshiluba
Literacy:
    72% (male 84%, female 61%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    15,000,000; agriculture 75%, industry 13%, services 12%; wage earners 13%
    (1981); population of working age 51% (1985)
Organized labor:
    National Union of Zairian Workers (UNTZA) was the only officially recognized
    trade union until April 1990; other unions are now in process of seeking
    official recognition

:Zaire Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Zaire
Type:
    republic with a strong presidential system
Capital:
    Kinshasa
Administrative divisions:
    10 regions (regions, singular - region) and 1 town* (ville); Bandundu,
    Bas-Zaire, Equateur, Haut-Zaire, Kasai-Occidental, Kasai-Oriental,
    Kinshasa*, Maniema, Nord-Kivu, Shaba, Sud-Kivu
Independence:
    30 June 1960 (from Belgium; formerly Belgian Congo, then Congo/Leopoldville,
    then Congo/Kinshasa)
Constitution:
    24 June 1967, amended August 1974, revised 15 February 1978; amended April
    1990; new constitution to be promulgated in 1992
Legal system:
    based on Belgian civil law system and tribal law; has not accepted
    compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
National holiday:
    Anniversary of the Regime (Second Republic), 24 November (1965)
Executive branch:
    president, prime minister, Executive Council (cabinet)
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Legislative Council (Conseil Legislatif)
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court (Cour Supreme)
Leaders:
  Chief of State:
    President Marshal MOBUTU Sese Seko Kuku Ngbendu wa Za Banga (since 24
    November 1965)
  Head of Government:
    Prime Minister Jean NGUZ a Karl-i-Bond (since 26 November 1991)
Political parties and leaders:
    sole legal party until January 1991 - Popular Movement of the Revolution
    (MPR); other parties include Union for Democracy and Social Progress (UDPS),
    Etienne TSHISEKEDI wa Mulumba; Democratic Social Christian Party (PDSC),
    Joseph ILEO; Union of Federalists and Independent Republicans (UFERI), NGUZ
    a Karl-I-Bond; and Congolese National Movement-Lumumba (MNC-L)
Suffrage:
    universal and compulsory at age 18
Elections:
  President:
    last held 29 July 1984 (next to be scheduled by ongoing National
    Conference); results - President MOBUTU was reelected without opposition
  Legislative Council:
    last held 6 September 1987 (next to be scheduled by ongoing National
    Conference); results - MPR was the only party; seats - (210 total) MPR 210;
    note - MPR still holds majority of seats but some deputies have joined other
    parties
Member of:
    ACCT, ACP, AfDB, APC, CCC, CEEAC, CEPGL, CIPEC, ECA, FAO, G-19, G-24, G-77,
    GATT, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, IDA, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, INTELSAT,
    INTERPOL, IOC, ITU, LORCS, NAM, OAU, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO,
    UPU, WCL, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador TATANENE Manata; Chancery at 1800 New Hampshire Avenue NW,
    Washington, DC 20009; telephone (202) 234-7690 or 7691

:Zaire Government

  US:
    Ambassador Melissa F. WELLS; Embassy at 310 Avenue des Aviateurs, Kinshasa
    (mailing address is APO AE 09828); telephone [243] (12) 21532, 21628; FAX
    [243] (12) 21232; the US Consulate General in Lubumbashi was closed and
    evacuated in October 1991 because of the poor security situation
Flag:
    light green with a yellow disk in the center bearing a black arm holding a
    red flaming torch; the flames of the torch are blowing away from the hoist
    side; uses the popular pan-African colors of Ethiopia

:Zaire Economy

Overview:
    In 1990, in spite of large mineral resources Zaire had a GDP per capita of
    only about $260, putting it among the desperately poor African nations. The
    country's chronic economic problems worsened in 1991, with copper and cobalt
    production down 20-30%, inflation near 8,000% in 1991 as compared with 100%
    in 1987-89, and IMF and most World Bank support suspended until the
    institution of agreed-on changes. Agriculture, a key sector of the economy,
    employs 75% of the population but generates under 25% of GDP. The main
    potential for economic development has been the extractive industries.
    Mining and mineral processing account for about one-third of GDP and
    three-quarters of total export earnings. Zaire is the world's largest
    producer of diamonds and cobalt.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $9.8 billion, per capita $260; real growth rate
    -3% (1990 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    8,000% (1991)
Unemployment rate:
    NA%
Budget:
    revenues $685 million; expenditures $1.1 billion, does not include capital
    expenditures mostly financed by donors (1990)
Exports:
    $2.2 billion (f.o.b., 1989 est.)
  commodities:
    copper 37%, coffee 24%, diamonds 12%, cobalt, crude oil
  partners:
    US, Belgium, France, FRG, Italy, UK, Japan, South Africa
Imports:
    $2.1 billion (f.o.b., 1989 est.)
  commodities:
    consumer goods, foodstuffs, mining and other machinery, transport equipment,
    fuels
  partners:
    South Africa, US, Belgium, France, FRG, Italy, Japan, UK
External debt:
    $7.9 billion (December 1990 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate -7.3%; accounts for almost 30% of GDP (1989)
Electricity:
    2,580,000 kW capacity; 6,000 million kWh produced, 160 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    mining, mineral processing, consumer products (including textiles, footwear,
    and cigarettes), processed foods and beverages, cement, diamonds
Agriculture:
    cash crops - coffee, palm oil, rubber, quinine; food crops - cassava,
    bananas, root crops, corn
Illicit drugs:
    illicit producer of cannabis, mostly for domestic consumption
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY70-89), $1.1 billion; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $6.9 billion; OPEC
    bilateral aid (1979-89), $35 million; Communist countries (1970-89), $263
    million
Currency:
    zaire (singular and plural); 1 zaire (Z) = 100 makuta
Exchange rates:
    zaire (Z) per US$1 - 111,196 (March 1992), 15,587 (1991), 719 (1990), 381
    (1989), 187 (1988), 112 (1987)

:Zaire Economy

Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Zaire Communications

Railroads:
    5,254 km total; 3,968 km 1.067-meter gauge (851 km electrified); 125 km
    1.000-meter gauge; 136 km 0.615-meter gauge; 1,025 km 0.600-meter gauge;
    limited trackage in use because of civil strife
Highways:
    146,500 km total; 2,800 km paved, 46,200 km gravel and improved earth;
    97,500 unimproved earth
Inland waterways:
    15,000 km including the Congo, its tributaries, and unconnected lakes
Pipelines:
    petroleum products 390 km
Ports:
    Matadi, Boma, Banana
Merchant marine:
    2 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 22,921 GRT/30,332 DWT; includes 1
    passenger cargo, 1 cargo
Civil air:
    45 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    284 total, 239 usable; 24 with permanent-surface runways; 1 with runways
    over 3,659 m; 6 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 73 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    barely adequate wire and microwave service; broadcast stations - 10 AM, 4
    FM, 18 TV; satellite earth stations - 1 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT, 14 domestic

:Zaire Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Navy, Air Force, paramilitary National Gendarmerie, Civil Guard,
    Special Presidential Division
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 8,521,292; 4,333,492 fit for military service
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $49 million, 0.8% of GDP (1988)

:Zambia Geography

Total area:
    752,610 km2
Land area:
    740,720 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than Texas
Land boundaries:
    5,664 km total; Angola 1,110 km, Malawi 837 km, Mozambique 419 km, Namibia
    233 km, Tanzania 338 km, Zaire 1,930 km, Zimbabwe 797 km
Coastline:
    none - landlocked
Maritime claims:
    none - landlocked
Disputes:
    quadripoint with Botswana, Namibia, and Zimbabwe is in disagreement;
    Tanzania-Zaire-Zambia tripoint in Lake Tanganyika may no longer be
    indefinite since it is reported that the indefinite section of the
    Zaire-Zambia boundary has been settled
Climate:
    tropical; modified by altitude; rainy season (October to April)
Terrain:
    mostly high plateau with some hills and mountains
Natural resources:
    copper, cobalt, zinc, lead, coal, emeralds, gold, silver, uranium,
    hydropower potential
Land use:
    arable land 7%; permanent crops NEGL%; meadows and pastures 47%; forest and
    woodland 27%; other 19%; includes irrigated NEGL%
Environment:
    deforestation; soil erosion; desertification
Note:
    landlocked

:Zambia People

Population:
    8,745,284 (July 1992), growth rate 3.5% (1992)
Birth rate:
    48 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    11 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    -2 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    77 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    55 years male, 59 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    6.9 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Zambian(s); adjective - Zambian
Ethnic divisions:
    African 98.7%, European 1.1%, other 0.2%
Religions:
    Christian 50-75%, Muslim and Hindu 24-49%, remainder indigenous beliefs 1%
Languages:
    English (official); about 70 indigenous languages
Literacy:
    73% (male 81%, female 65%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    2,455,000; agriculture 85%; mining, manufacturing, and construction 6%;
    transport and services 9%
Organized labor:
    about 238,000 wage earners are unionized

:Zambia Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Zambia
Type:
    multiparty system; on 17 December 1990, President Kenneth KAUNDA signed into
    law the constitutional amendment that officially reintroduced the multiparty
    system in Zambia ending 17 years of one-party rule
Capital:
    Lusaka
Administrative divisions:
    9 provinces; Central, Copperbelt, Eastern, Luapula, Lusaka, Northern,
    North-Western, Southern, Western
Independence:
    24 October 1964 (from UK; formerly Northern Rhodesia)
Constitution:
    NA August 1991
Legal system:
    based on English common law and customary law; judicial review of
    legislative acts in an ad hoc constitutional council; has not accepted
    compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 24 October (1964)
Executive branch:
    president, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    unicameral National Assembly
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State and Head of Government:
    President Frederick CHILUBA (since 31 October 1991)
Political parties and leaders:
    Movement for Multiparty Democracy (MMD), Frederick CHILUBA; United National
    Independence Party (UNIP), none; elections pending
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  President:
    last held 31 October 1991 (next to be held mid-1995); results - Frederick
    CHILUBA 84%, Kenneth KAUNDA 16%
  National Assembly:
    last held 31 October 1991 (next to be held mid-1995); results - percent of
    vote by party NA; seats - (150 total) MMD 125, UNIP 25
Member of:
    ACP, AfDB, C, CCC, ECA, FAO, FLS, G-19, G-77, GATT, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, IDA,
    IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, ITU, LORCS, NAM, OAU, SADCC,
    UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNIIMOG, UPU, WCL, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Ambassador (vacant); Chancery at 2419 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington,
    DC 20008; telephone (202) 265-9717 through 9721
  US:
    Ambassador Gordon L. STREEB; Embassy at corner of Independence Avenue and
    United Nations Avenue, Lusaka (mailing address is P. O. Box 31617, Lusaka);
    telephone [2601] 228-595, 228-601, 228-602, 228-603; FAX [2601] 251-578
Flag:
    green with a panel of three vertical bands of red (hoist side), black, and
    orange below a soaring orange eagle, on the outer edge of the flag

:Zambia Economy

Overview:
    The economy has been in decline for more than a decade with falling imports
    and growing foreign debt. Economic difficulties stem from a sustained drop
    in copper production and ineffective economic policies. In 1991 real GDP
    fell by 2%. An annual population growth of more than 3% has brought a
    decline in per capita GDP of 50% over the past decade. A high inflation rate
    has also added to Zambia's economic woes in recent years.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $4.7 billion, per capita $600; real growth rate
    -2% (1991)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    100% (1991)
Unemployment rate:
    NA%
Budget:
    revenues $665 million; expenditures $767 million, including capital
    expenditures of $300 million (1991 est.)
Exports:
    $1.1 billion (f.o.b., 1991)
  commodities:
    copper, zinc, cobalt, lead, tobacco
  partners:
    EC, Japan, South Africa, US, India
Imports:
    $1.3 billion (c.i.f., 1991)
  commodities:
    machinery, transportation equipment, foodstuffs, fuels, manufactures
  partners:
    EC, Japan, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, US
External debt:
    $8 billion (December 1991)
Industrial production:
    growth rate -2% (1991); accounts for 50% of GDP
Electricity:
    2,775,000 kW capacity; 12,000 million kWh produced, 1,400 kWh per capita
    (1991)
Industries:
    copper mining and processing, transport, construction, foodstuffs,
    beverages, chemicals, textiles, and fertilizer
Agriculture:
    accounts for 17% of GDP and 85% of labor force; crops - corn (food staple),
    sorghum, rice, peanuts, sunflower, tobacco, cotton, sugarcane, cassava;
    cattle, goats, beef, eggs
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (1970-89), $4.8 billion; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $4.8 billion; OPEC
    bilateral aid (1979-89), $60 million; Communist countries (1970-89), $533
    million
Currency:
    Zambian kwacha (plural - kwacha); 1 Zambian kwacha (ZK) = 100 ngwee
Exchange rates:
    Zambian kwacha (ZK) per US$1 - 128.2051 (March 1992), 61.7284 (1991),
    28.9855 (1990), 12.9032 (1989), 8.2237 (1988), 8.8889 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    calendar year

:Zambia Communications

Railroads:
    1,266 km, all 1.067-meter gauge; 13 km double track
Highways:
    36,370 km total; 6,500 km paved, 7,000 km crushed stone, gravel, or
    stabilized soil; 22,870 km improved and unimproved earth
Inland waterways:
    2,250 km, including Zambezi and Luapula Rivers, Lake Tanganyika
Pipelines:
    crude oil 1,724 km
Ports:
    Mpulungu (lake port)
Civil air:
    12 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    117 total, 104 usable; 13 with permanent-surface runways; 1 with runways
    over 3,659 m; 4 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 22 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    facilities are among the best in Sub-Saharan Africa; high-capacity microwave
    connects most larger towns and cities; broadcast stations - 11 AM, 5 FM, 9
    TV; satellite earth stations - 1 Indian Ocean INTELSAT and 1 Atlantic Ocean
    INTELSAT

:Zambia Defense Forces

Branches:
    Army, Air Force, Police, paramilitary
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 1,818,545; 953,718 fit for military service
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $NA, NA% of GDP

:Zimbabwe Geography

Total area:
    390,580 km2
Land area:
    386,670 km2
Comparative area:
    slightly larger than Montana
Land boundaries:
    3,066 km total; Botswana 813 km, Mozambique 1,231 km, South Africa 225 km,
    Zambia 797 km
Coastline:
    none - landlocked
Maritime claims:
    none - landlocked
Disputes:
    quadripoint with Botswana, Namibia, and Zambia is in disagreement
Climate:
    tropical; moderated by altitude; rainy season (November to March)
Terrain:
    mostly high plateau with higher central plateau (high veld); mountains in
    east
Natural resources:
    coal, chromium ore, asbestos, gold, nickel, copper, iron ore, vanadium,
    lithium, tin, platinum group metals
Land use:
    arable land 7%; permanent crops NEGL%; meadows and pastures 12%; forest and
    woodland 62%; other 19%; includes irrigated NEGL%
Environment:
    recurring droughts; floods and severe storms are rare; deforestation; soil
    erosion; air and water pollution
Note:
    landlocked

:Zimbabwe People

Population:
    11,033,376 (July 1992), growth rate 2.9% (1992)
Birth rate:
    40 births/1,000 population (1992)
Death rate:
    8 deaths/1,000 population (1992)
Net migration rate:
    -3 migrants/1,000 population (1992)
Infant mortality rate:
    59 deaths/1,000 live births (1992)
Life expectancy at birth:
    60 years male, 64 years female (1992)
Total fertility rate:
    5.4 children born/woman (1992)
Nationality:
    noun - Zimbabwean(s); adjective - Zimbabwean
Ethnic divisions:
    African 98% (Shona 71%, Ndebele 16%, other 11%); white 1%, mixed and Asian
    1%
Religions:
    syncretic (part Christian, part indigenous beliefs) 50%, Christian 25%,
    indigenous beliefs 24%, a few Muslim
Languages:
    English (official); Shona, Sindebele
Literacy:
    67% (male 74%, female 60%) age 15 and over can read and write (1990 est.)
Labor force:
    3,100,000; agriculture 74%, transport and services 16%, mining,
    manufacturing, construction 10% (1987)
Organized labor:
    17% of wage and salary earners have union membership

:Zimbabwe Government

Long-form name:
    Republic of Zimbabwe
Type:
    parliamentary democracy
Capital:
    Harare
Administrative divisions:
    8 provinces; Manicaland, Mashonaland Central, Mashonaland East, Mashonaland
    West, Masvingo (Victoria), Matabeleland North, Matabeleland South, Midlands
Independence:
    18 April 1980 (from UK; formerly Southern Rhodesia)
Constitution:
    21 December 1979
Legal system:
    mixture of Roman-Dutch and English common law
National holiday:
    Independence Day, 18 April (1980)
Executive branch:
    executive president, 2 vice presidents, Cabinet
Legislative branch:
    unicameral Parliament
Judicial branch:
    Supreme Court
Leaders:
  Chief of State and Head of Government:
    Executive President Robert Gabriel MUGABE (since 31 December 1987); Co-Vice
    President Simon Vengai MUZENDA (since 31 December 1987); Co-Vice President
    Joshua M. NKOMO (since 6 August 1990)
Political parties and leaders:
    Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic Front (ZANU-PF), Robert MUGABE;
    Zimbabwe African National Union-Sithole (ZANU-S), Ndabaningi SITHOLE;
    Zimbabwe Unity Movement (ZUM), Edgar TEKERE; Democratic Party (DP), Emmanuel
    MAGOCHE
Suffrage:
    universal at age 18
Elections:
  Executive President:
    last held 28-30 March 1990 (next to be held NA March 1996); results - Robert
    MUGABE 78.3%, Edgar TEKERE 21.7%
  Parliament:
    last held 28-30 March 1990 (next to be held NA March 1995); results -
    percent of vote by party NA; seats - (150 total, 120 elected) ZANU-PF 117,
    ZUM 2, ZANU-S 1
Member of:
    ACP, AfDB, C, CCC, ECA, FAO, FLS, G-77, GATT, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, IDA, IFAD,
    IFC, ILO, IMF, INTELSAT, INTERPOL, IOC, IOM (observer), ITU, LORCS, NAM,
    OAU, PCA, SADCC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO
Diplomatic representation:
    Counselor (Political Affairs), Head of Chancery, Ambassador Stanislaus
    Garikai CHIGWEDERE; Chancery at 1608 New Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington, DC
    20009; telephone (202) 332-7100
  US:
    Ambassador Edward Gibson LANPHER; Embassy at 172 Herbert Chitapo Avenue,
    Harare (mailing address is P. O. Box 3340, Harare); telephone [263] (4)
    794-521

:Zimbabwe Government

Flag:
    seven equal horizontal bands of green, yellow, red, black, red, yellow, and
    green with a white equilateral triangle edged in black based on the hoist
    side; a yellow Zimbabwe bird is superimposed on a red five-pointed star in
    the center of the triangle

:Zimbabwe Economy

Overview:
    Agriculture employs three-fourths of the labor force and supplies almost 40%
    of exports. The manufacturing sector, based on agriculture and mining,
    produces a variety of goods and contributes 35% to GDP. Mining accounts for
    only 5% of both GDP and employment, but supplies of minerals and metals
    account for about 40% of exports. Wide year-to-year fluctuations in
    agricultural production over the past six years have resulted in an uneven
    growth rate, one that on average has matched the 3% annual increase in
    population. Helped by an IMF/World Bank structural adjustment program,
    output rose 3.5% in 1991. A drought beginning toward the end of 1991
    suggests rough going for 1992.
GDP:
    exchange rate conversion - $7.1 billion, per capita $660; real growth rate
    3.5% (1991 est.)
Inflation rate (consumer prices):
    25% (1991 est.)
Unemployment rate:
    at least 30% (1991 est.)
Budget:
    revenues $2.7 billion; expenditures $3.3 billion, including capital
    expenditures of $330 million (FY91)
Exports:
    $1.8 billion (f.o.b., 1991 est.)
  commodities:
    agricultural 35% (tobacco 20%, other 15%), manufactures 20%, gold 10%,
    ferrochrome 10%, cotton 5%
  partners:
    Europe 55% (EC 40%, Netherlands 5%, other 15%), Africa 20% (South Africa
    10%, other 10%), US 5%
Imports:
    $1.6 billion (c.i.f., 1991 est.)
  commodities:
    machinery and transportation equipment 37%, other manufactures 22%,
    chemicals 16%, fuels 15%
  partners:
    EC 31%, Africa 29% (South Africa 21%, other 8%), US 8%, Japan 4%
External debt:
    $2.96 billion (December 1989 est.)
Industrial production:
    growth rate 5% (1991 est.); accounts for 35% of GDP
Electricity:
    3,650,000 kW capacity; 7,500 million kWh produced, 700 kWh per capita (1991)
Industries:
    mining, steel, clothing and footwear, chemicals, foodstuffs, fertilizer,
    beverage, transportation equipment, wood products
Agriculture:
    accounts for 11% of GDP and employs 74% of population; 40% of land area
    divided into 4,500 large commercial farms and 42% in communal lands; crops -
    corn (food staple), cotton, tobacco, wheat, coffee, sugarcane, peanuts;
    livestock - cattle, sheep, goats, pigs; self-sufficient in food
Economic aid:
    US commitments, including Ex-Im (FY80-89), $389 million; Western (non-US)
    countries, ODA and OOF bilateral commitments (1970-89), $2.6 billion; OPEC
    bilateral aid (1979-89), $36 million; Communist countries (1970-89), $134
    million
Currency:
    Zimbabwean dollar (plural - dollars); 1 Zimbabwean dollar (Z$) = 100 cents

:Zimbabwe Economy

Exchange rates:
    Zimbabwean dollars (Z$) per US$1 - 4.3066 (March 1992), 3.4282 (1991),
    2.4480 (1990), 2.1133 (1989), 1.8018 (1988), 1.6611 (1987)
Fiscal year:
    1 July - 30 June

:Zimbabwe Communications

Railroads:
    2,745 km 1.067-meter gauge; 42 km double track; 355 km electrified
Highways:
    85,237 km total; 15,800 km paved, 39,090 km crushed stone, gravel,
    stabilized soil: 23,097 km improved earth; 7,250 km unimproved earth
Inland waterways:
    Lake Kariba is a potential line of communication
Pipelines:
    petroleum products 8 km
Civil air:
    12 major transport aircraft
Airports:
    491 total, 401 usable; 22 with permanent-surface runways; 2 with runways
    over 3,659 m; 3 with runways 2,440-3,659 m; 32 with runways 1,220-2,439 m
Telecommunications:
    system was once one of the best in Africa, but now suffers from poor
    maintenance; consists of microwave links, open-wire lines, and radio
    communications stations; 247,000 telephones; broadcast stations - 8 AM, 18
    FM, 8 TV; 1 Atlantic Ocean INTELSAT earth station

:Zimbabwe Defense Forces

Branches:
    Zimbabwe National Army, Air Force of Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe National Police
    (including Police Support Unit, Paramilitary Police), People's Militia
Manpower availability:
    males 15-49, 2,355,965; 1,456,829 fit for military service
Defense expenditures:
    exchange rate conversion - $412.4 million, about 6% of GDP (FY91 est.)

********

Notes, Definitions, and Abbreviations

Text (264 nations, dependent areas, and other entities)

Afghanistan
Albania
Algeria
American Samoa
Andorra
Angola
Anguilla
Antarctica
Antigua and Barbuda
Arctic Ocean
Argentina
Armenia
Aruba
Ashmore and Cartier Islands
Atlantic Ocean
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan

Bahamas, The
Bahrain
Baker Island
Bangladesh
Barbados
Bassas da India
Belarus
Belgium
Belize
Benin
Bermuda
Bhutan
Bolivia
Bosnia and Hercegovina
Botswana
Bouvet Island
Brazil
British Indian Ocean Territory
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Bulgaria
Burkina
Burma
Burundi

Cambodia
Cameroon
Canada
Cape Verde
Cayman Islands
Central African Republic
Chad
Chile
China (also see separate Taiwan entry)
Christmas Island
Clipperton Island
Cocos (Keeling) Islands
Colombia
Comoros
Congo
Cook Islands
Coral Sea Islands
Costa Rica
Croatia
Cuba
Cyprus
Czechoslovakia

Denmark
Djibouti
Dominica
Dominican Republic

Ecuador
Egypt
El Salvador
Equatorial Guinea
Estonia
Ethiopia
Europa Island

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
Faroe Islands
Fiji
Finland
France
French Guiana
French Polynesia
French Southern and Antarctic Lands

Gabon
Gambia, The
Gaza Strip
Georgia
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Glorioso Islands
Greece
Greenland
Grenada
Guadeloupe
Guam
Guatemala
Guernsey
Guinea
Guinea-Bissau
Guyana

Haiti
Heard Island and McDonald Islands
Honduras
Hong Kong
Howland Island
Hungary

Iceland
India
Indian Ocean
Indonesia
Iran
Iraq
Ireland
Israel (also see separate Gaza Strip and West Bank entries)
Italy
Ivory Coast

Jamaica
Jan Mayen
Japan
Jarvis Island
Jersey
Johnston Atoll
Jordan (also see separate West Bank entry)
Juan de Nova Island

Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kingman Reef
Kiribati
Korea, North
Korea, South
Kuwait
Kyrgyzstan

Laos
Latvia
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Libya
Liechtenstein
Lithuania
Luxembourg

Macau
Macedonia
Madagascar
Malawi
Malaysia
Maldives
Mali
Malta
Man, Isle of
Marshall Islands
Martinique
Mauritania
Mauritius
Mayotte
Mexico
Micronesia, Federated States of
Midway Islands
Moldova
Monaco
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Mozambique

Namibia
Nauru
Navassa Island
Nepal
Netherlands
Netherlands Antilles
New Caledonia
New Zealand
Nicaragua
Niger
Nigeria
Niue
Norfolk Island
Northern Mariana Islands
Norway

Oman

Pacific Islands, Trust Territory of the (Palau)
Pacific Ocean
Pakistan
Palmyra Atoll
Panama
Papua New Guinea
Paracel Islands
Paraguay
Peru
Philippines
Pitcairn Islands
Poland
Portugal
Puerto Rico

Qatar

Reunion
Romania
Russia
Rwanda

Saint Helena
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Pierre and Miquelon
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
San Marino
Sao Tome and Principe
Saudi Arabia
Senegal
Serbia and Montenegro
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
Slovenia
Solomon Islands
Somalia
South Africa
South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
Spain
Spratly Islands
Sri Lanka
Sudan
Suriname
Svalbard
Swaziland
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria

Taiwan (follows Zimbabwe)
Tajikistan
Tanzania
Thailand
Togo
Tokelau
Tonga
Trinidad and Tobago
Tromelin Island
Tunisia
Turkey
Turkmenistan
Turks and Caicos Islands
Tuvalu

Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom
United States
Uruguay
Uzbekistan

Vanuatu
Vatican City
Venezuela
Vietnam
Virgin Islands

Wake Island
Wallis and Futuna
West Bank
Western Sahara
Western Samoa
World

Yemen

Zaire
Zambia
Zimbabwe

Taiwan

Appendixes

A: The United Nations System
B: Abbreviations for International Organizations and Groups
C: International Organizations and Groups
D: Weights and Measures
E: Cross-Reference List of Geographic Names


Standard Time Zones of the World

Notes, Definitions, and Abbreviations

There have been some significant changes in this edition. The Soviet Union,
Yugoslavia, and the Iraq - Saudi Arabia Neutral Zone have been dropped. All 15
former Soviet republics have been added - Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus,
Estonia, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Lithuania, Moldova, Russia,
Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan. Bosnia and Hercegovina,
Croatia, Macedonia, Serbia and Montenegro, and Slovenia have replaced
Yugoslavia. Three maps on areas of special interest have been added this
year - two maps on the Commonwealth of Independent States (European States
and Central Asian States) and a map of Ethnic Groups in Eastern Europe.

Abbreviations: (see Appendix B for international organizations and groups)

avdp.: avoirdupois

c.i.f.: cost, insurance, and freight

CY: calendar year

DWT: deadweight ton

est.: estimate

Ex-Im: Export-Import Bank of the United States

f.o.b.: free on board

FRG: Federal Republic of Germany (West Germany); used for information dated
before 3 October 1990 or CY91

FY: fiscal year

GDP: gross domestic product

GDR: German Democratic Republic (East Germany); used for information dated
before 3 October 1990 or CY91

GNP: gross national product

GRT: gross register ton

km: kilometer

km2: square kilometer

kW: kilowatt

kWh: kilowatt hour

m: meter

NA: not available

NEGL: negligible

nm: nautical mile

NZ: New Zealand

ODA: official development assistance

OOF: other official flows

PDRY: People's Democratic Republic of Yemen [Yemen (Aden) or South Yemen];
used for information dated before 22 May 1990 or CY91

UAE: United Arab Emirates

UK: United Kingdom

US: United States

USSR: Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (Soviet Union); used for information
dated before 25 December 1991

YAR: Yemen Arab Republic [Yemen (Sanaa) or North Yemen]; used for information
dated before 22 May 1990 or CY91

Administrative divisions: The numbers, designatory terms, and first-order
administrative divisions are generally those approved by the US Board on
Geographic Names (BGN). Changes that have been reported but not yet acted on
by BGN are noted.

Area: Total area is the sum of all land and water areas delimited by
international boundaries and/or coastlines. Land area is the aggregate of
all surfaces delimited by international boundaries and/or coastlines,
excluding inland water bodies (lakes, reservoirs, rivers). Comparative areas
are based on total area equivalents. Most entities are compared with the
entire US or one of the 50 states. The smaller entities are compared with
Washington, DC (178 km2, 69 miles2) or the Mall in Washington, DC (0.59 km2,
0.23 miles2, 146 acres).

Birth rate: The average annual number of births during a year per 1,000
population at midyear; also known as crude birth rate.

Dates of information: In general, information available as of 1 January 1992
was used in the preparation of this edition. Population figures are estimates
for 1 July 1992, with population growth rates estimated for mid-1992 through
mid-1993. Major political events have been updated through 30 June 1992.
Military age figures are for 1992.

Death rate: The average annual number of deaths during a year per l,000
population at midyear; also known as crude death rate.

Diplomatic representation: The US Government has diplomatic relations with
176 nations (the US has not yet established full diplomatic relations with
Bosnia and Hercegovina, Croatia, and Slovenia). The US has diplomatic
relations with 167 of the 178 UN members - the exceptions are Angola, Bhutan,
Bosnia and Hercegovina, Croatia, Cuba, Iran, Iraq, North Korea, Slovenia,
and Vietnam. In addition, the US has diplomatic relations with 9 nations
that are not in the UN - Andorra, Kiribati, Monaco, Nauru, San Marino,
Switzerland, Tonga, Tuvalu, and Vatican City.

Disputes: This category includes a wide variety of situations that range from
traditional bilateral boundary disputes to unilateral claims of one sort or
another. Every international land boundary dispute in the ``Guide to Interna-
tional Boundaries,'' a map published by the Department of State, is included.
References to other situations may also be included that are border or
frontier relevant, such as maritime disputes, geopolitical questions, or
irredentist issues. However, inclusion does not necessarily constitute
official acceptance or recognition by the US Government.

Economic aid: This entry refers to bilateral commitments of official develop-
ment assistance (ODA), which is defined as government grants that are
administered with the promotion of economic development and welfare of LDCs
as their main objective and are concessional in character and contain a
grant element of at least 25%, and other official flows (OOF) or transactions
by the official sector whose main objective is other than development
motivated or whose grant element is below the 25% threshold for ODA. OOF
transactions include official export credits (such as Eximbank credits),
official equity and portfolio investment, and debt reorganization by the
official sector that does not meet concessional terms. Aid is considered to
have been committed when agreements are initialed by the parties involved and
constitute a formal declaration of intent.

Entities: Some of the nations, dependent areas, areas of special sovereignty,
and governments included in this publication are not independent, and others
are not officially recognized by the US Government. ``Nation'' refers to a
people politically organized into a sovereign state with a definite territory.
``Dependent'' area refers to a broad category of political entities that are
associated in some way with a nation. Names used for page headings are usually
the short-form names as approved by the US Board on Geographic Names. The
long-form name is included in the ``Government'' section, and an entry of
``none'' indicates a long-form name does not exist. In some instances, no
short-form name exists - then the long-form name must serve for all usages.
There are 264 entities in The World Factbook that may be categorized as
follows:

NATIONS

177 UN members (excluding Yugoslavia)

11 nations that are not members of the UN - Andorra, Georgia, Kiribati,
Macedonia, Monaco, Nauru, Serbia and Montenegro, Switzerland, Tonga, Tuvalu,
Vatican City (Holy See)

OTHER

1 Taiwan

DEPENDENT AREAS

6 Australia - Ashmore and Cartier Islands, Christmas Island, Cocos (Keeling)
Islands, Coral Sea Islands, Heard Island and McDonald Islands, Norfolk Island

2 Denmark - Faroe Islands, Greenland

16 France - Bassas da India, Clipperton Island, Europa Island, French Guiana,
French Polynesia, French Southern and Antarctic Lands, Glorioso Islands,
Guadeloupe, Juan de Nova Island, Martinique, Mayotte, New Caledonia, Reunion,
Saint Pierre and Miquelon, Tromelin Island, Wallis and Futuna

2 Netherlands - Aruba, Netherlands Antilles

3 New Zealand - Cook Islands, Niue, Tokelau

3 Norway - Bouvet Island, Jan Mayen, Svalbard

1 Portugal - Macau

16 United Kingdom - Anguilla, Bermuda, British Indian Ocean Territory, British
Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, Falkland Islands, Gibraltar, Guernsey,
Hong Kong, Isle of Man, Jersey, Montserrat, Pitcairn Islands, Saint Helena,
South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands, Turks and Caicos Islands

15 United States - American Samoa, Baker Island, Guam, Howland Island, Jarvis
Island, Johnston Atoll, Kingman Reef, Midway Islands, Navassa Island, Northern
Mariana Islands, Palmyra Atoll, Puerto Rico, Trust Territory of the Pacific
Islands (Palau), Virgin Islands, Wake Island

MISCELLANEOUS

6 Antarctica, Gaza Strip, Paracel Islands, Spratly Islands, West Bank, Western
Sahara

OTHER ENTITIES

4 oceans - Arctic Ocean, Atlantic Ocean, Indian Ocean, Pacific Ocean

1 World

264 total

note: The US Government does not recognize the four so-called independent
homelands of Bophuthatswana, Ciskei, Transkei, and Venda in South Africa.

Gross domestic product (GDP): The value of all goods and services produced
domestically.

Gross national product (GNP): The value of all goods and services produced
domestically plus income earned abroad, minus income earned by foreigners
from domestic production.

GNP/GDP methodology: In the ``Economy'' section, GNP/GDP dollar estimates for
the OECD countries, the former Soviet republics, and the East European
countries are derived from purchasing power parity (PPP) calculations rather
than from conversions at official currency exchange rates. The PPP method
normally involves the use of international dollar price weights, which are
applied to the quantities of goods and services produced in a given economy.
In addition to the lack of reliable data from the majority of countries, the
statistician faces a major difficulty in specifying, identifying, and allowing
for the quality of goods and services. The division of a PPP GNP/GDP estimate
in dollars by the corresponding estimate in the local currency gives the PPP
conversion rate. One thousand dollars will buy the same market basket of goods
in the US as one thousand dollars - converted to the local currency at the PPP
conversion rate - will buy in the other country. GNP/GDP estimates for the
LDCs, on the other hand, are based on the conversion of GNP/GDP estimates in
local currencies to dollars at the official currency exchange rates. One
caution: the proportion of, say, defense expenditures as a percent of GNP/GDP
in local currency accounts may differ substantially from the proportion when
GNP/GDP accounts are expressed in PPP terms, as, for example, when an observer
estimates the dollar level of Russian or Japanese military expenditures;
similar problems exist when components are expressed in dollars under currency
exchange rate procedures. Finally, as academic research moves forward on the
PPP method, we hope to convert all GNP/GDP estimates to this method in future
editions of The World Factbook.

Growth rate (population): The annual percent change in the population,
resulting from a surplus (or deficit) of births over deaths and the balance
of migrants entering and leaving a country. The rate may be positive or
negative.

Illicit drugs: There are five categories of illicit drugs - narcotics,
stimulants, depressants (sedatives), hallucinogens, and cannabis. These
categories include many drugs legally produced and prescribed by doctors as
well as those illegally produced and sold outside medical channels.

Cannabis (Cannabis sativa) is the common hemp plant, which provides
hallucinogens with some sedative properties, and includes marijuana (pot,
Acapulco gold, grass, reefer), tetrahydrocannabinol (THC, Marinol), hashish
(hash), and hashish oil (hash oil).

Coca (Erythroxylon coca) is a bush, and the leaves contain the stimulant
cocaine. Coca is not to be confused with cocoa, which comes from cacao seeds
and is used in making chocolate, cocoa, and cocoa butter.

Cocaine is a stimulant derived from the leaves of the coca bush.

Depressants (sedatives) are drugs that reduce tension and anxiety and include
chloral hydrate, barbiturates (Amytal, Nembutal, Seconal, phenobarbital),
benzodiazepines (Librium, Valium), methaqualone (Quaalude), glutethimide
(Doriden), and others (Equanil, Placidyl, Valmid).

Drugs are any chemical substances that effect a physical, mental, emotional,
or behavioral change in an individual.

Drug abuse is the use of any licit or illicit chemical substance that results
in physical, mental, emotional, or behavioral impairment in an individual.

Hallucinogens are drugs that affect sensation, thinking, self-awareness, and
emotion.

Hallucinogens include LSD (acid, microdot), mescaline and peyote (mexc,
buttons, cactus), amphetamine variants (PMA, STP, DOB), phencyclidine (PCP,
angel dust, hog), phencyclidine analogues (PCE, PCPy, TCP), and others
(psilocybin, psilocyn).

Hashish is the resinous exudate of the cannabis or hemp plant (Cannabis
sativa).

Heroin is a semisynthetic derivative of morphine.

Marijuana is the dried leaves of the cannabis or hemp plant (Cannabis sativa).

Narcotics are drugs that relieve pain, often induce sleep, and refer to opium,
opium derivatives, and synthetic substitutes. Natural narcotics include opium
(paregoric, parepectolin), morphine (MS-Contin, Roxanol), codeine (Tylenol
w/codeine, Empirin w/codeine, Robitussan A-C), and thebaine. Semisynthetic
narcotics include heroin (horse, smack), and hydromorphone (Dilaudid).
Synthetic narcotics include meperidine or Pethidine (Demerol, Mepergan),
methadone (Dolophine, Methadose), and others (Darvon, Lomotil).

Opium is the milky exudate of the incised, unripe seedpod of the opium poppy.

Opium poppy (Papaver somniferum) is the source for many natural and
semisynthetic narcotics.

Poppy straw concentrate is the alkaloid derived from the mature dried opium
poppy.

Qat (kat, khat) is a stimulant from the buds or leaves of Catha edulis that
is chewed or drunk as tea.

Stimulants are drugs that relieve mild depression, increase energy and
activity, and include cocaine (coke, snow, crack), amphetamines (Desoxyn,
Dexedrine), phenmetrazine (Preludin), methylphenidate (Ritalin), and others
(Cylert, Sanorex, Tenuate).

Infant mortality rate: The number of deaths to infants under one year old in
a given year per l,000 live births occurring in the same year.

Land use: Human use of the land surface is categorized as arable land - land
cultivated for crops that are replanted after each harvest (wheat, maize,
rice); permanent crops - land cultivated for crops that are not replanted
after each harvest (citrus, coffee, rubber); meadows and pastures - land
permanently used for herbaceous forage crops; forest and woodland - land
under dense or open stands of trees; and other - any land type not specifi-
cally mentioned above (urban areas, roads, desert). The percentage figure for
irrigated land refers to the portion of the entire amount of land area that
is artificially supplied with water.

Leaders: The chief of state is the titular leader of the country who
represents the state at official and ceremonial funcions but is not involved
with the day-to-day activities of the government. The head of government is
the administrative leader who manages the day-to-day activities of the
government. In the UK, the monarch is the chief of state, and the Prime
Minister is the head of government. In the US, the President is both the
chief of state and the head of government.

Life expectancy at birth: The average number of years to be lived by a group
of people all born in the same year, if mortality at each age remains
constant in the future.

Literacy: There are no universal definitions and standards of literacy.
Unless otherwise noted, all rates are based on the most common definition -
the ability to read and write at a specified age. Detailing the standards
that individual countries use to assess the ability to read and write is
beyond the scope of this publication.

Maps: All maps will be available only in the printed version for the fore-
seeable future.

Maritime claims: The proximity of neighboring states may prevent some
national claims from being fully extended.

Merchant marine: All ships engaged in the carriage of goods. All commercial
vessels (as opposed to all nonmilitary ships), which excludes tugs, fishing
vessels, offshore oil rigs, etc.; also, a grouping of merchant ships by
nationality or register.

Captive register - A register of ships maintained by a territory, possession,
or colony primarily or exclusively for the use of ships owned in the parent
country; also referred to as an offshore register, the offshore equivalent
of an internal register. Ships on a captive register will fly the same flag
as the parent country, or a local variant of it, but will be subject to the
maritime laws and taxation rules of the offshore territory. Although the
nature of a captive register makes it especially desirable for ships owned in
the parent country, just as in the internal register, the ships may also be
owned abroad. The captive register then acts as a flag of convenience
register, except that it is not the register of an independent state.

Flag of convenience register - A national register offering registration to a
merchant ship not owned in the flag state. The major flags of convenience
(FOC) attract ships to their register by virtue of low fees, low or
nonexistent taxation of profits, and liberal manning requirements. True FOC
registers are characterized by having relatively few of the ships registered
actually owned in the flag state. Thus, while virtually any flag can be used
for ships under a given set of circumstances, an FOC register is one where
the majority of the merchant fleet is owned abroad.
It is also referred to as an open register.

Flag state - The nation in which a ship is registered and which holds legal
jurisdiction over operation of the ship, whether at home or abroad.
Differences in flag state maritime legislation determine how a ship is manned
and taxed and whether a foreign-owned ship may be placed on the register.

Internal register - A register of ships maintained as a subset of a national
register. Ships on the internal register fly the national flag and have that
nationality but are subject to a separate set of maritime rules from those on
the main national register. These differences usually include lower taxation
of profits, manning by foreign nationals, and, usually, ownership outside the
flag state (when it functions as an FOC register). The Norwegian International
Ship Register and Danish International Ship Register are the most notable
examples of an internal register.
Both have been instrumental in stemming flight from the national flag to
flags of convenience and in attracting foreign-owned ships to the Norwegian
and Danish flags.

Merchant ship - A vessel that carries goods against payment of freight;
commonly used to denote any nonmilitary ship but accurately restricted to
commercial vessels only.

Register - The record of a ship's ownership and nationality as listed with
the maritime authorities of a country; also, the compendium of such individual
ships' registrations. Registration of a ship provides it with a nationality
and makes it subject to the laws of the country in which registered (the flag
state) regardless of the nationality of the ship's ultimate owner.

Money figures: All are expressed in contemporaneous US dollars unless
otherwise indicated.

Net migration rate: The balance between the number of persons entering and
leaving a country during the year per 1,000 persons (based on midyear
population). An excess of persons entering the country is referred to as net
immigration (3.56 migrants/1,000 population); an excess of persons leaving the
country as net emigration (-9.26 migrants/1,000 population).

Population: Figures are estimates from the Bureau of the Census based on
statistics from population censuses, vital registration systems, or sample
surveys pertaining to the recent past, and on assumptions about future trends.

Total fertility rate: The average number of children that would be born per
woman if all women lived to the end of their childbearing years and bore
children according to a given fertility rate at each age.

Years: All year references are for the calendar year (CY) unless indicated as
fiscal year (FY).

Note: Information for the US and US dependencies was compiled from material
in the public domain and does not represent Intelligence Community estimates.
The Handbook of International Economic and Environmental Statistics,
published annually in September by the Central Intelligence Agency, contains
detailed economic information for the Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development (OECD) countries, Eastern Europe, the newly independent
republics of the former nations of Yugoslavia and the Soviet Union, and
selected other countries. The Handbook can be obtained wherever The World
Factbook is available.


Appendix A:

 The United Nations System

    The UN is composed of six principal organs and numerous subordinate
agencies and bodies as follows:

1) Secretariat

2) General Assembly:
     UNCHS    United Nations Center for Human Settlements (Habitat)
     UNCTAD   United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
     UNDP     United Nations Development Program
     UNEP     United Nations Environment Program
     UNFPA    United Nations Population Fund
     UNHCR    United Nations Office of High Commissioner for Refugees
     UNICEF   United Nations Children's Fund
     UNITAR   United Nations Institute for Training and Research
     UNRWA    United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine
              Refugees in the Near East
     UNSF     United Nations Special Fund
     UNU      United Nations University
     WFC      World Food Council
     WFP      World Food Program

3) Security Council:
     UNAVEM   United Nations Angola Verification Mission
     UNDOF    United Nations Disengagement Observer Force
     UNFICYP  United Nations Force in Cyprus
     UNIFIL   United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon
     UNIIMOG  United Nations Iran-Iraq Military Observer Group
     UNMOGIP  United Nations Military Observer Group in India and
              Pakistan
     UNTSO    United Nations Truce Supervision Organization

4) Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC):
     Specialized agencies
       FAO      Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
       IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
       ICAO     International Civil Aviation Organization
       IDA      International Development Association
       IFAD     International Fund for Agricultural Development
       IFC      International Finance Corporation
       ILO      International Labor Organization
       IMF      International Monetary Fund
       IMO      International Maritime Organization
       ITU      International Telecommunication Union
       UNESCO   United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural
                Organization
       UNIDO    United Nations Industrial Development Organization
       UPU      Universal Postal Union
       WHO      World Health Organization
       WIPO     World Intellectual Property Organization
       WMO      World Meteorological Organization
                Related organizations
       GATT     General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
       IAEA     International Atomic Energy Agency
     Regional commissions
       ECA      Economic Commission for Africa
       ECE      Economic Commission for Europe
       ECLAC    Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean
       ESCAP    Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific
       ESCWA    Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia
     Functional commissions
       Commission on Human Rights
       Commission on Narcotic Drugs
       Commission for Social Development
       Commission on the Status of Women
       Population Commission
       Statistical Commission

5) Trusteeship Council

6) International Court of Justice (ICJ)

Appendix B

Abbreviations for International Organizations and Groups

ABEDA    Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
ACC      Arab Cooperation Council
ACCT     Agency for Cultural and Technical Cooperation
ACP      African, Caribbean, and Pacific Countries
AfDB     African Development Bank
AFESD    Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development
AG       Andean Group
AL       Arab League
ALADI    Asociacion Latinoamericana de Integracion; see Latin
         American Integration Association (LAIA)
AMF      Arab Monetary Fund
AMU      Arab Maghreb Union
ANZUS    Australia-New Zealand-United States Security Treaty
APEC     Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation
AsDB     Asian Development Bank
ASEAN    Association of Southeast Asian Nations

BAD      Banque Africaine de Developpement;
         see African Development Bank (AfDB)
BADEA    Banque Arabe de Developpement Economique en Afrique;
         see Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa (ABEDA)
BCIE     Banco Centroamericano de Integracion Economico; see Central
         American Bank for Economic Integration (BCIE)
BDEAC    Banque de Developpment des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale; see
         Central African States Development Bank (BDEAC)
Benelux  Benelux Economic Union
BID      Banco Interamericano de Desarvollo; see Inter-American
         Development Bank (IADB)
BIS      Bank for International Settlements
BOAD     Banque Ouest-Africaine de Developpement; see West African
         Development Bank (WADB)

C        Commonwealth
CACM     Central American Common Market
CAEU     Council of Arab Economic Unity
CARICOM  Caribbean Community and Common Market
CCC      Customs Cooperation Council
CDB      Caribbean Development Bank
CE       Council of Europe
CEAO     Communaute Economique de l'Afrique de l'Ouest; see West
         African Economic Community (CEAO)
CEEAC    Communaute Economique des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale; see
         Economic Community of Central African States (CEEAC)
CEMA     Council for Mutual Economic Assistance; also known as CMEA or
         Comecon; abolished 1 January 1991
CEPGL    Communaute Economique des Pays des Grands Lacs; see Economic
         Community of the Great Lakes Countries (CEPGL)
CERN     Conseil Europeen pour la Recherche Nucleaire; see European
         Organization for Nuclear Research (CERN)
CG       Contadora Group
CIS      Commonwealth of Independent States
CMEA     Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CEMA); also known as
         Comecon; abolished 1 January 1991
COCOM    Coordinating Committee on Export Controls
Comecon  Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CEMA); also known as
         CMEA; abolished 1 January 1991
CP       Colombo Plan
CSCE     Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe

DC       developed country

EADB     East African Development Bank
EBRD     European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EC       European Community
ECA      Economic Commission for Africa
ECAFE    Economic Commission for Asia and the Far East; see Economic and
         Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP)
ECE      Economic Commission for Europe
ECLA     Economic Commission for Latin America; see Economic Commission
         for Latin America and the Caribbean (ECLAC)
ECLAC    Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean
ECOSOC   Economic and Social Council
ECOWAS   Economic Community of West African States
ECWA     Economic Commission for Western Asia; see Economic and Social
         Commission for Western Asia (ESCWA)
EFTA     European Free Trade Association
EIB      European Investment Bank
Entente  Council of the Entente
ESA      European Space Agency
ESCAP    Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific
ESCWA    Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia

FAO      Food and Agriculture Organization
FLS      Front Line States
FZ       Franc Zone

G-2      Group of 2
G-3      Group of 3
G-5      Group of 5
G-6      Group of 6 (not to be confused with the Big Six)
G-7      Group of 7
G-8      Group of 8
G-9      Group of 9
G-10     Group of 10
G-11     Group of 11
G-15     Group of 15
G-19     Group of 19
G-24     Group of 24
G-30     Group of 30
G-33     Group of 33
G-77     Group of 77
GATT     General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
GCC      Gulf Cooperation Council

Habitat  see United Nations Center for Human Settlements (UNCHS)
HG       Hexagonal Group

IADB     Inter-American Development Bank
IAEA     International Atomic Energy Agency
IBEC     International Bank for Economic Cooperation
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICAO     International Civil Aviation Organization
ICC      International Chamber of Commerce
ICEM     Intergovernmental Committee for European Migration; see
         International Organization for Migration (IOM)
ICFTU    International Confederation of Free Trade Unions
ICJ      International Court of Justice
ICM      Intergovernmental Committee for Migration; see
         International Organization for Migration (IOM)
ICRC     International Committee of the Red Cross
IDA      International Development Association
IDB      Islamic Development Bank
IEA      International Energy Agency
IFAD     International Fund for Agricultural Development
IFC      International Finance Corporation
IGADD    Inter-Governmental Authority on Drought and Development
IIB      International Investment Bank
ILO      International Labor Organization
IMCO     Intergovernmental Maritime Consultative Organization; see
         International Maritime Organization (IMO)
IMF      International Monetary Fund
IMO      International Maritime Organization
INMARSAT International Maritime Satellite Organization
INTELSAT International Telecommunications Satellite Organization
INTERPOL International Criminal Police Organization
IOC      International Olympic Committee
IOM      International Organization for Migration
ISO      International Organization for Standardization
ITU      International Telecommunication Union

LAES     Latin American Economic System
LAIA     Latin American Integration Association
LAS      League of Arab States; see Arab League (AL)
LDC      less developed country
LLDC     least developed country
LORCS    League of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies

MERCOSUR Southern Cone Common Market
MTCR     Missile Technology Control Regime

NACC     North Atlantic Cooperation Council
NAM      Nonaligned Movement
NATO     North Atlantic Treaty Organization
NC       Nordic Council
NEA      Nuclear Energy Agency
NIB      Nordic Investment Bank
NIC      newly industrializing country; see newly industrializing
         economy (NIE)
NIE      newly industrializing economy
NSG      Nuclear Suppliers Group

OAPEC    Organization of Arab Petroleum Exporting Countries
OAS      Organization of American States
OAU      Organization of African Unity
OECD     Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
OECS     Organization of Eastern Caribbean States
OIC      Organization of the Islamic Conference
OPANAL   Agency for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America
         and the Caribbean
OPEC     Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries

PCA      Permanent Court of Arbitration

RG       Rio Group

SAARC    South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation
SACU     Southern African Customs Union
SADCC    Southern African Development Coordination Conference
SELA     Sistema Economico Latinoamericana; see Latin American Economic
         System (LAES)
SPC      South Pacific Commission
SPF      South Pacific Forum

UDEAC    Union Douaniere et Economique de l'Afrique Centrale; see
         Central African Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC)
UN       United Nations
UNAVEM   United Nations Angola Verification Mission
UNCHS    United National Center for Human Settlements (also
         known as Habitat)
UNCTAD   United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
UNDOF    United Nations Disengagement Observer Force
UNDP     United Nations Development Program
UNEP     United Nations Environment Program
UNESCO   United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural
         Organization
UNFICYP  United Nations Force in Cyprus
UNFPA    United Nations Fund for Population Activities; see UN Population
         Fund (UNFPA)
UNHCR    United Nations Office of the High Commissioner for Refugees
UNICEF   United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund; see
         United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF)
UNIDO    United Nations Industrial Development Organization
UNIFIL   United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon
UNIIMOG  United Nations Iran-Iraq Military Observer Group
UNMOGIP  United Nations Military Observer Group in India and Pakistan
UNRWA    United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees
         in the Near East
UNTSO    United Nations Truce Supervision Organization
UPU      Universal Postal Union
USSR/EE  USSR/Eastern Europe

WADB     West African Development Bank
WCL      World Confederation of Labor
WEU      Western European Union
WFC      World Food Council
WFP      World Food Program
WFTU     World Federation of Trade Unions
WHO      World Health Organization
WIPO     World Intellectual Property Organization
WMO      World Meteorological Organization
WP       Warsaw Pact (members met 1 July 1991 to dissolve the alliance)
WTO      World Tourism Organization

ZC       Zangger Committee

note: not all international organizations and groups have abbreviations

Appendix C:

International Organizations and Groups


**********

advanced developing countries

Note - another term for those less developed countries (LDCs)
with particularly rapid industrial development; see newly
industrializing economies (NIEs)

**********

African, Caribbean, and Pacific Countries (ACP)

established - 1 April 1976

aim - members have a preferential economic and aid relationship
with the EC

members - (69) Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, The Bahamas,
Barbados, Belize, Benin, Boswana, Burkina, Burundi, Cameroon,
Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo,
Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Equatorial Guinea,
Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, The Gambia, Ghana, Grenada, Guinea,
Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Kenya,
Kiribati, Lesotho, Liberia, Madagascar, Malawi, Mali, Mauritania,
Mauritius, Mozambique, Namibia, Niger, Nigeria, Papua New Guinea,
Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the
Grenadines, Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra
Leone, Solomon Islands, Somalia, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland,
Tanzania, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tuvalu, Uganda,
Vanuatu, Western Samoa, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe

**********

African Development Bank (AfDB), also known as Banque Africaine
de Developpement (BAD)

established - 4 August 1963

aim - to promote economic and social development

regional members - (51) Algeria, Angola, Benin, Botswana,
Burkina, Burundi, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic,
Chad, Comoros, Congo, Djibouti, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea,
Ethiopia, Gabon, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Ivory
Coast, Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Madagascar, Malawi, Mali,
Mauritania, Mauritius, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Niger,
Nigeria, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal, Seychelles,
Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sudan, Swaziland, Tanzania, Togo, Tunisia,
Uganda, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe

nonregional members - (25) Argentina, Australia, Austria,
Belgium, Brazil, Canada, China, Denmark, Finland, France,
Germany, India, Italy, Japan, South Korea, Kuwait, Netherlands,
Norway, Portugal, Saudi Arabia, Sweden, Switzerland, UK, US,
Yugoslavia

**********

Agence de Cooperation Culturelle et Technique (ACCT)

Note - see Agency for Cultural and Technical Cooperation (ACCT)

**********

Agency for Cultural and Technical Cooperation (ACCT)

Note - acronym from Agence de Cooperation Culturelle et Technique

established - 21 March 1970

aim - to promote cultural and technical cooperation among French-
speaking countries

members - (32) Belgium, Benin, Burkina, Burundi, Canada, Central
African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Djibouti, Dominica,
France, Gabon, Guinea, Haiti, Ivory Coast, Lebanon, Luxembourg,
Madagascar, Mali, Mauritius, Monaco, Niger, Rwanda, Sao Tome and
Principe, Senegal, Seychelles, Togo, Tunisia, Vanuatu, Vietnam,
Zaire

associate members - (7) Cameroon, Egypt, Guinea-Bissau, Laos,
Mauritania, Morocco, Saint Lucia

participating governments - (2) New Brunswick (Canada), Quebec
(Canada)

**********

Agency for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America
and the Caribbean (OPANAL)

Note - acronym from Organismo para la Proscripcion de las Armas
Nucleares en la America Latina y el Caribe (OPANAL)

established - 14 February 1967

aim - to encourage the peaceful uses of atomic energy and
prohibit nuclear weapons

members - (24) Antigua and Barbuda, The Bahamas, Barbados,
Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic,
Ecuador, El Salvador, Grenada, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras,
Jamaica, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Suriname,
Trinidad and Tobago, Uruguay, Venezuela

**********

Andean Group (AG)

established - 26 May 1969, effective 16 October 1969

aim - to promote harmonious development through economic
integration

members - (5) Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Venezuela

associate member - (1) Panama

observers - (26) Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil,
Canada, Costa Rica, Denmark, Egypt, Finland, France, Germany,
India, Israel, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Netherlands, Paraguay,
Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, UK, US, Uruguay, Yugoslavia

Note - The US view is that the Socialist Federal represents its
continuation.  Republic of Yugoslavia (SFRY) has dissolved and
that none of the successor republics

**********

Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa (ABEDA)

Note - also known as Banque Arabe de Developpement Economique en
Afrique (BADEA)

established - 18 February 1974

effective - 16 September 1974

aim - to promote economic development

members - (16 plus the Palestine Liberation Organization)
Algeria, Bahrain, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Libya,
Mauritania, Morocco, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Syria,
Tunisia, UAE, Palestine Liberation Organization; note - these are
all the members of the Arab League except Djibouti, Somalia, and
Yemen

**********

Arab Cooperation Council (ACC)

established - 16 February 1989

aim - to promote economic cooperation and integration, possibly
leading to an Arab Common Market

members - (4) Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, Yemen

**********

Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development (AFESD)

established - 16 May 1968

aim - to promote economic and social development

members - (20 plus the Palestine Liberation Organization)
Algeria, Bahrain, Djibouti, Egypt (suspended from 1979 to 1988),
Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Libya, Mauritania, Morocco, Oman,
Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Somalia, Sudan, Syria, Tunisia, UAE, Yemen,
Palestine Liberation Organization

**********

Arab League (AL)

Note - also known as League of Arab States (LAS)

established - 22 March 1945

aim - to promote economic, social, political, and military
cooperation

members - (20 plus the Palestine Liberation Organization)
Algeria, Bahrain, Djibouti, Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon,
Libya, Mauritania, Morocco, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Somalia,
Sudan, Syria, Tunisia, UAE, Yemen, Palestine Liberation
Organization

**********

Arab Maghreb Union (AMU)

established - 17 February 1989

aim - to promote cooperation and integration among the Arab
states of northern Africa

members - (5) Algeria, Libya, Mauritania, Morocco, Tunisia

**********

Arab Monetary Fund (AMF)

established - 27 April 1976

effective - 2 February 1977

aim - to promote Arab cooperation, development, and integration
in monetary and economic affairs

members - (19 plus the Palestine Liberation Organization)
Algeria, Bahrain, Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Libya,
Mauritania, Morocco, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Somalia, Sudan,
Syria, Tunisia, UAE, Yemen, Palestine Liberation Organization

**********

Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC)

established - NA November 1989

aim - to promote trade and investment in the Pacific basin

members - (15) all ASEAN members (Brunei, Indonesia, Malaysia,
Philippines, Singapore, Thailand) plus Australia, Canada, China,
Hong Kong, Japan, South Korea, NZ, Taiwan, US

**********

Asian Development Bank (AsDB)

established - 19 December 1966

aim - to promote regional economic cooperation

regional members - (35) Afghanistan, Australia, Bangladesh,
Bhutan, Burma, Cambodia, China, Cook Islands, Fiji, Hong Kong,
India, Indonesia, Japan, Kiribati, South Korea, Laos, Malaysia,
Maldives, Marshall Islands, Federated States of Micronesia,
Mongolia, Nepal, NZ, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Philippines,
Singapore, Solomon Islands, Sri Lanka, Taiwan, Thailand, Tonga,
Vanuatu, Vietnam, Western Samoa

nonregional members - (15) Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark,
Finland, France, Germany, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Spain,
Sweden, Switzerland, UK, US

**********

Asociacion Latinoamericana de Integracion (ALADI)

Note - see Latin American Integration Association (LAIA)

**********

Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN)

established - 9 August 1967

aim - regional economic, social, and cultural cooperation among
the non-Communist countries of Southeast Asia

members - (6) Brunei, Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines,
Singapore, Thailand

observer - (1) Papua New Guinea

**********

Australia Group

established - 1984

aim - to consult on and coordinate export controls related to
chemical and biological weapons

members - (22) Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark,
Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Japan,
Luxembourg, Netherlands, NZ, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden,
Switzerland, UK, US

**********

Australia - New Zealand - United States Security Treaty (ANZUS)

established - 1 September 1951, effective 29 April 1952

aim - trilateral mutual security agreement, although the US
suspended security obligations to NZ on 11 August 1986

members - (3) Australia, NZ, US

**********

Banco Centroamericano de Integracion Economico (BCIE)

Note - see Central American Bank for Economic Integration (BCIE)

**********

Banco Interamericano de Desarvollo (BID)

Note - see Inter-American Development Bank (IADB)

**********

Bank for International Settlements (BIS)

established - 20 January 1930

effective - 17 March 1930

aim - to promote cooperation among central banks in international
financial settlements

members - (29) Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada,
Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece,
Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Netherlands, Norway,
Poland, Portugal, Romania, South Africa, Spain, Sweden,
Switzerland, Turkey, UK, US, Yugoslavia

**********

Banque Africaine de Developpement (BAD)

Note - see African Development Bank (AfDB)

**********

Banque Arabe de Developpement Economique en Afrique (BADEA)

Note - see Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa (ABEDA)

**********

Banque de Developpement des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale (BDEAC)

Note - see Central African States Development Bank (BDEAC)

**********

Banque Ouest-Africaine de Developpement (BOAD)

Note - see West African Development Bank (WADB)

**********

Benelux Economic Union (Benelux)

Note - acronym from Belgium, Netherlands, and Luxembourg

established - 3 February 1958

effective - 1 November 1960

aim - to develop closer economic cooperation and integration

members - (3) Belgium, Luxembourg, Netherlands

**********

Big Seven

Note - membership is the same as the Group of 7

established - NA

aim - to discuss and coordinate major economic policies

members - (7) Big Six (Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, UK)
plus the US

**********

Big Six

Note - not to be confused with the Group of 6

established - NA

aim - economic cooperation

members - (6) Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, UK

**********

Caribbean Community and Common Market (CARICOM)

established - 4 July 1973

effective - 1 August 1973

aim - to promote economic integration and development, especially
among the less developed countries

members - (13) Antigua and Barbuda, The Bahamas, Barbados,
Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, Saint
Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines,
Trinidad and Tobago

associate members - (2) British Virgin Islands, Turks and Caicos
Islands

observers - (10) Anguilla, Bermuda, Cayman Islands, Dominican
Republic, Haiti, Mexico, Netherlands Antilles, Puerto Rico,
Suriname, Venezuela

**********

Caribbean Development Bank (CDB)

established - 18 October 1969

effective - 26 January 1970

aim - to promote economic development and cooperation

regional members - (20) Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, The
Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, British Virgin Islands, Cayman
Islands, Colombia, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Mexico,
Montserrat, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and
the Grenadines, Trinidad and Tobago, Turks and Caicos Islands,
Venezuela

nonregional members - (5) Canada, France, Germany, Italy, UK

**********

Cartagena Group

Note - see Group of 11

**********

Central African Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC)

Note - acronym from Union Douaniere et Economique de l'Afrique
Centrale

established - 8 December 1964

effective - 1 January 1966

aim - to promote the establishment of a Central African Common
Market

members - (6) Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Congo,
Equatorial Guinea, Gabon

**********

Central African States Development Bank (BDEAC)

Note - acronym from Banque de Developpement des Etats de
l'Afrique Centrale

established - 3 December 1975

aim - to provide loans for economic development

members - (9) Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Congo,
Equatorial Guinea, France, Gabon, Germany, Kuwait

**********

Central American Bank for Economic Integration (BCIE)

Note - acronym from Banco Centroamericano de Integracion
Economico

established - 13 December 1960

aim - to promote economic integration and development

members - (5) Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras,
Nicaragua

**********

Central American Common Market (CACM)

established - 13 December 1960

effective - 3 June 1961

aim - to promote establishment of a Central American Common
Market

members - (5) Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras,
Nicaragua

**********

centrally planned economies

Note - a term applied mainly to the traditionally Communist
states that looked to the former USSR for leadership; most are
now evolving toward more democratic and market-oriented systems;
also known formerly as the Second World or as the Communist
countries; through the 1980s, this group included Albania,
Bulgaria, Cambodia, China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, GDR, Hungary,
North Korea, Laos, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, USSR, Vietnam,
Yugoslavia

**********

Colombo Plan (CP)

established - 1 July 1951

aim - to promote economic and social development in Asia and the
Pacific

nembers - (26) Afghanistan, Australia, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Burma,
Cambodia, Canada, Fiji, India, Indonesia, Iran, Japan, South
Korea, Laos, Malaysia, Maldives, Nepal, NZ, Pakistan, Papua New
Guinea, Philippines, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Thailand, UK, US

**********

Commission for Social Development

established - 21 June 1946 as the Social Commission, renamed 29
July 1966

aim - ECOSOC organization dealing with social development
programs

members - (31) selected on a rotating basis from all regions

**********

Commission on Human Rights

established - 18 February 1946

aim - ECOSOC organization dealing with human rights

members - (43) selected on a rotating basis from all regions

**********

Commission on Narcotic Drugs

established - 16 February 1946

aim - ECOSOC organization dealing with illicit drugs

members - (38) selected on a rotating basis from all regions with
emphasis on producing and processing countries

**********

Commission on the Status of Women

established - 21 June 1946

aim - ECOSOC organization dealing with women's rights

members - (32) selected on a rotating basis from all regions

**********

Commonwealth (C)

established - 31 December 1931

aim - voluntary association that evolved from the British Empire
and that seeks to foster multinational cooperation and assistance

members - (48) Antigua and Barbuda, Australia, The Bahamas,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Belize, Botswana, Brunei, Canada, Cyprus,
Dominica, The Gambia, Ghana, Grenada, Guyana, India, Jamaica,
Kenya, Kiribati, Lesotho, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Malta,
Mauritius, Namibia, NZ, Nigeria, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea,
Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the
Grenadines, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Solomon Islands,
Sri Lanka, Swaziland, Tanzania, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago,
Uganda, UK, Vanuatu, Western Samoa, Zambia, Zimbabwe

special members - (2) Nauru, Tuvalu

**********

Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS)

established - 8 December 1991

effective - 21 December 1991

aim - to coordinate intercommonwealth relations and to provide a
mechanism for the orderly dissolution of the USSR

members - (11) Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Kazakhstan,
Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Russia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine,
Uzbekistan

**********

Communaute Economique de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (CEAO)

Note - see West African Economic Community (CEAO)

**********

Communaute Economique des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale (CEEAC)

Note - see Economic Community of Central African States (CEEAC)

**********

Communaute Economique des Pays des Grands Lacs (CEPGL)

Note - see Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries
(CEPGL)

**********

Communist countries

Note - traditionally the Marxist-Leninist states with
authoritarian governments and command economies based on the
Soviet model; most of the successor states are no longer
Communist; see centrally planned economies

**********

Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE)

established - NA November 1972

aim - discusses issues of mutual concern and reviews
implementation of the Helsinki Agreement

members - (52) Albania, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus,
Belgium, Bosnia and Hercegovina, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia,
Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France,
Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy,
Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania,
Luxembourg, Malta, Moldova, Monaco, Netherlands, Norway, Poland,
Portugal, Romania, Russia, San Marino, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden,
Switzerland, Tajikistan, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, UK, US,
Uzbekistan, Vatican City, Yugoslavia

**********

Conseil Europeen pour la Recherche Nucleaire (CERN)

Note - see European Organization for Nuclear Research (CERN)

**********

Contadora Group (CG) -
Note - was established 5 January 1983 (on the Panamanian island
of Contadora) to reduce tensions and conflicts in Central America
but evolved into the Rio Group (RG); members included Colombia,
Mexico, Panama, Venezuela

**********

Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf

Note - see Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC)

**********

Coordinating Committee on Export Controls (COCOM)

established - NA 1949

aim - to control the export of strategic products and technical
data from member countries to proscribed destinations<ATT>

members - (17) Australia, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France,
Germany, Greece, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway,
Portugal, Spain, Turkey, UK, US

cooperating countries - (8) Austria, Finland, Ireland, South
Korea, NZ, Singapore, Sweden, Switzerland

**********

Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CEMA)

Note - also known as CMEA or Comecon, was established 25 January
1949 to promote the development of socialist economies and was
abolished 1 January 1991; members included Afghanistan
(observer), Albania (had not participated since 1961 break with
USSR), Angola (observer), Bulgaria, Cuba, Czechoslovakia,
Ethiopia (observer), GDR, Hungary, Laos (observer), Mongolia,
Mozambique (observer), Nicaragua (observer), Poland, Romania,
USSR, Vietnam, Yemen (observer), Yugoslavia (associate)

**********

Council of Arab Economic Unity (CAEU)

established - 3 June 1957

effective - 30 May 1964

aim - to promote economic integration among Arab nations

members - (11 plus the Palestine Liberation Organization) Egypt,
Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Libya, Mauritania, Somalia, Sudan, Syria,
UAE, Yemen, Palestine Liberation Organization

**********

Council of Europe (CE)

established - 5 May 1949

effective - 3 August 1949

aim - to promote increased unity and quality of life in Europe

members - (28) Austria, Belgium, Belarus, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia,
Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland,
Ireland, Italy, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands,
Norway, Poland, Portugal, San Marino, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland,
Turkey, Ukraine, UK

**********

Council of the Entente (Entente)

established - 29 May 1959

aim - to promote economic, social, and political coordination

members - (5) Benin, Burkina, Ivory Coast, Niger, Togo

**********

Customs Cooperation Council (CCC)

established - 15 December 1950

aim - to promote international cooperation in customs matters

members - (108) Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia, Austria,
The Bahamas, Bangladesh, Belgium, Bermuda, Botswana, Brazil,
Bulgaria, Burkina, Burundi, Cameroon, Canada, Central African
Republic, Chile, China, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia,
Denmark, Egypt, Ethiopia, Finland, France, Gabon, The Gambia,
Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guyana, Haiti, Hong Kong,
Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Israel,
Italy, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, South Korea,
Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi,
Malaysia, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Morocco,
Mozambique, Nepal, Netherlands, NZ, Niger, Nigeria, Norway,
Pakistan, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Romania,
Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, South
Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland,
Syria, Tanzania, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
Turkey, Uganda, UAE, UK, US, Uruguay, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia,
Zimbabwe

**********

developed countries (DCs)

Note - the top group in the comprehensive but mutually exclusive
hierarchy of developed countries (DCs), former USSR/Eastern
Europe (former USSR/EE), and less developed countries (LDCs);
includes the market-oriented economies of the mainly democratic
nations in the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development (OECD), Bermuda, Israel, South Africa, and the
European ministates; also known as the First World, high-income
countries, the North, industrial countries; generally have a per
capita GNP/GDP in excess of $10,000 although some OECD countries
and South Africa have figures well under $10,000 and two of the
excluded OPEC countries have figures of more than $10,000.  The
34 DCs are: Andorra, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bermuda,
Canada, Denmark, Faroe Islands, Finland, France, Germany, Greece,
Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Liechtenstein,
Luxembourg, Malta, Monaco, Netherlands, NZ, Norway, Portugal, San
Marino, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, UK, US,
Vatican City

**********

developing countries

Note - an imprecise term for the less developed countries with
growing economies; see less developed countries (LDCs)

**********

East African Development Bank (EADB)

established - 6 June 1967

effective - 1 December 1967

aim - to promote economic development

members - (3) Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda

**********

Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP)

established - 28 March 1947 as Economic Commission for Asia and
the Far East (ECAFE)

aim - to promote economic development as a regional commission
for the UN's ECOSOC

members - (39) Afghanistan, Australia, Bangladesh, Bhutan,
Brunei, Burma, Cambodia, China, Fiji, France, India, Indonesia,
Iran, Japan, North Korea, South Korea, Laos, Malaysia, Maldives,
Mongolia, Nauru, Nepal, Netherlands, NZ, Pakistan, Papua New
Guinea, Philippines, Russia, Singapore, Solomon Islands, Sri
Lanka, Thailand, Tonga, Tuvalu, UK, US, Vanuatu, Vietnam, Western
Samoa

associate members - (10) American Samoa, Cook Islands, Guam, Hong
Kong, Kiribati, Marshall Islands, Federated States of Micronesia,
Niue, Northern Mariana Islands, Trust Territory of the Pacific
Islands (Palau)

**********

Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia (ESCWA)

established - 9 August 1973 as Economic Commission for Western
Asia (ECWA)

aim - to promote economic development as a regional commission
for the UN's ECOSOC

members - (12 and the Palestine Liberation Organization) Bahrain,
Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia,
Syria, UAE, Yemen, Palestine Liberation Organization

**********

Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC)

established - 26 June 1945

effective - 24 October 1945

aim - to coordinate the economic and social work of the UN;
includes five regional commissions (see Economic Commission for
Africa, Economic Commission for Europe, Economic Commission for
Latin America and the Caribbean, Economic and Social Commission
for Asia and the Pacific, Economic and Social Commission for
Western Asia) and six functional commissions (see Commission for
Social Development, Commission on Human Rights, Commission on
Narcotic Drugs, Commission on the Status of Women, Population
Commission, and Statistical Commission)

members - (54) selected on a rotating basis from all regions

**********

Economic Commission for Africa (ECA)

established - 29 April 1958

aim - to promote economic development as a regional commission of
the UN's ECOSOC

members - (52) Algeria, Angola, Benin, Botswana, Burkina,
Burundi, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad,
Comoros, Congo, Djibouti, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia,
Gabon, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Ivory Coast,
Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Madagascar, Malawi, Mali,
Mauritania, Mauritius, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Niger,
Nigeria, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal, Seychelles,
Sierra Leone, Somalia, South Africa (suspended), Sudan,
Swaziland, Tanzania, Togo, Tunisia, Uganda, Zaire, Zambia,
Zimbabwe

**********

Economic Commission for Asia and the Far East (ECAFE)
<p>see Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific
(ESCAP)

**********

Economic Commission for Europe (ECE)

established - 28 March 1947

aim - to promote economic development as a regional commission of
the UN's ECOSOC

members - (33) Albania, Austria, Belarus, Belgium, Bulgaria,
Canada, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Finland, France,
Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg,
Malta, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia,
Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, UK, Ukraine, US, Yugoslavia

**********

Economic Commission for Latin America (ECLA)
<p>see Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean
(ECLAC)

**********

Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean (ECLAC)

established - 25 February 1948 as Economic Commission for Latin
America (ECLA)

aim - to promote economic development as a regional commission of
the UN's ECOSOC

members - (41) Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, The Bahamas,
Barbados, Belize, Bolivia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa
Rica, Cuba, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador,
France, Grenada, Guatemala, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Jamaica,
Mexico, Netherlands, Nicaragua, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Portugal,
Puerto Rico, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent
and the Grenadines, Spain, Suriname, Trinidad and Tobago, UK, US,
Uruguay, Venezuela

associate members - (5) Aruba, British Virgin Islands,
Montserrat, Netherlands Antilles, Virgin Islands

**********

Economic Commission for Western Asia (ECWA)

Note - see Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia
(ESCWA)

**********

Economic Community of Central African States (CEEAC) - acronym
from Communaute Economique des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale

established - 18 October 1983

aim - to promote regional economic cooperation and establish a
Central African Common Market

members - (10) Burundi, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad,
Congo, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe,
Zaire

observer - (1) Angola

**********

Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries (CEPGL)

Note - acronym from Communaute Economique des Pays des Grands
Lacs

established - 26 September 1976

aim - to promote regional economic cooperation and integration

members - (3) Burundi, Rwanda, Zaire

**********

Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS)

established - 28 May 1975

aim - to promote regional economic cooperation

members - (16) Benin, Burkina, Cape Verde, The Gambia, Ghana,
Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Ivory Coast, Liberia, Mali, Mauritania,
Niger, Nigeria, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Togo

**********

European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD)

established - 15 April 1991

aim - to facilitate the transition of seven centrally planned
economies in Europe (Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland,
Romania, former USSR, and former Yugoslavia) to market economies
by committing 60% of its loans to privatization

members - (35) Albania, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada,
Cyprus, Denmark, European Community (EC), Egypt, European
Investment Bank (EIB), Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Iceland,
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, South Korea, Liechtenstein,
Luxembourg, Malta, Mexico, Morocco, Netherlands, NZ, Norway,
Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, UK, US; note -
includes all 24 members of the OECD and the EC as an institution

**********

European Community (EC)

established - 8 April 1965

effective - 1 July 1967

aim - a fusing of the European Atomic Energy Community (Euratom),
the European Coal and Steel Community (ESC), and the European
Economic Community (EEC or Common Market); the EC plans to
establish a completely integrated common market in 1992 and an
eventual federation of Europe

members - (12) Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Greece,
Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, UK

associate member - (1) Czechoslovakia

**********

European Free Trade Association (EFTA)

established - 4 January 1960

effective - 3 May 1960

aim - to promote expansion of free trade

members - (6) Austria, Finland, Iceland, Norway, Sweden,
Switzerland

**********

European Investment Bank (EIB)

established - 25 March 1957

effective - 1 January 1958

aim - to promote economic development of the EC

members - (12) Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Greece,
Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, UK

**********

European Organization for Nuclear Research (CERN)

Note - acronym retained from the predecessor organization Conseil
Europeen pour la Recherche Nucleaire

established - 1 July 1953

effective - 29 September 1954

aim - to foster nuclear research for peaceful purposes only

members - (16) Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France,
Germany, Greece, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal,
Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, UK

observers - (2) Turkey, Yugoslavia

**********

European Space Agency (ESA)

established - 31 July 1973

effective - 1 May 1975

aim - to promote peaceful cooperation in space research and
technology

members - (13) Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany,
Ireland, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland,
UK

associate member - (1) Finland

**********

First World

Note - another term for countries with advanced, industrialized
economies; this term is fading from use; see developed countries
(DCs)

**********

Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO)

established - 16 October 1945

aim - UN specialized agency to raise living standards and
increase availability of agricultural products

members - (157) all UN members except Armenia, Azerbaijan,
Belarus, Bosnia and Hercegovina, Brunei, Croatia, Estonia,
Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania,
Marshall Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, Moldova,
Russia, San Marino, Singapore, Slovenia, South Africa,
Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, Uzbekistan; other members are
Cook Islands, Switzerland, Tonga

**********

Former USSR/Eastern Europe (former USSR/EE)

Note - the middle group in the comprehensive but mutually
exclusive hierarchy of developed countries (DCs), former
USSR/Eastern Europe (former USSR/EE), and less developed
countries (LDCs); these countries are in political and economic
transition and may well be grouped differently in the near
future; this includes Albania, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus,
Bosnia and Hercegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czecholovakia,
Estonia, Georgia, Hungary, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia,
Lithuania, Moldova, Poland, Romania, Russia, Slovenia,
Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, Yugoslavia

**********

Four Dragons

Note - the four small Asian less developed countries (LDCs) that
have experienced unusually rapid economic growth; also known as
the Four Tigers; this group includes Hong Kong, South Korea,
Singapore, Taiwan

**********

Four Tigers

Note - another term for the Four Dragons; see Four Dragons

**********

Franc Zone (FZ)

established - NA

aim - monetary union among countries whose currencies are linked
to the French franc

members - (15) Benin, Burkina, Cameroon, Central African
Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Equatorial Guinea, France, Gabon,
Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo; note - France includes
metropolitan France, the four overseas departments of France
(French Guiana, Guadeloupe, Martinique, Reunion), the two
territorial collectivities of France (Mayotte, Saint Pierre and
Miquelon), and the three overseas territories of France (French
Polynesia, New Caledonia, Wallis and Futuna)

**********

Front Line States (FLS)

established - NA

aim - to achieve black majority rule in South Africa

members - (7) Angola, Botswana, Mozambique, Namibia, Tanzania,
Zambia, Zimbabwe

**********

General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT)

established - 30 October 1947

effective - 1 January 1948

aim - to promote the expansion of international trade on a
nondiscriminatory basis

members - (98) Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Australia,
Austria, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Botswana,
Brazil, Burkina, Burma, Burundi, Cameroon, Canada, Central
African Republic, Chad, Chile, Colombia, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus,
Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Egypt, Finland,
France, Gabon, The Gambia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala,
Guyana, Haiti, Hong Kong, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia,
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Japan, Kenya, South
Korea, Kuwait, Lesotho, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia,
Maldives, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Morocco,
Netherlands, NZ, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan,
Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Rwanda, Senegal,
Sierra Leone, Singapore, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka,
Suriname, Sweden, Switzerland, Tanzania, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad
and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, UK, US, Uruguay, Yugoslavia,
Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe

**********

Group of 2 (G-2)

established - informal term that came into use about 1986

aim - bilateral economic cooperation between the two most
powerful economic giants

members - (2) Japan, US

**********

Group of 3 (G-3)

established - NA October 1990

aim - mechanism for policy coordination

members - (3) Colombia, Mexico, Venezuela

**********

Group of 5 (G-5)

established - 22 September 1985

aim - the five major non-Communist economic powers

members - (5) France, Germany, Japan, UK, US

**********

Group of 6 (G-6)

Note - not to be confused with the Big Six

established - 22 May 1984

aim - seeks to achieve nuclear disarmament

members - (6) Argentina, Greece, India, Mexico, Sweden, Tanzania

**********

Group of 7 (G-7)

Note - membership is the same as the Big Seven

established - 22 September 1985

aim - the seven major non-Communist economic powers

members - (7) Group of 5 (France, Germany, Japan, UK, US) plus
Canada and Italy

**********

Group of 8 (G-8)

established - NA October 1975

aim - the developed countries (DCs) that participated in the
Conference on International Economic Cooperation (CIEC), held in
several sessions between NA December 1975 and 3 June 1977

members - (8) Australia, Canada, EC (as one member), Japan,
Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, US

**********

Group of 9 (G-9)

established - NA

aim - informal group that meets occasionally on matters of mutual
interest

members - (9) Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Denmark, Finland,
Hungary, Romania, Sweden, Yugoslavia

**********

Group of 10 (G-10)

Note - also known as the Paris Club

established - NA October 1962

aim - wealthiest members of the IMF who provide most of the money
to be loaned and act as the informal steering committee; name
persists in spite of the addition of Switzerland on NA April 1984

members - (11) Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan,
Netherlands, Sweden, Switzerland, UK, US

**********

Group of 11 (G-11)

Note - also known as the Cartagena Group

established - 22 June 1984, in Cartagena, Colombia

aim - forum for largest debtor nations in Latin America

members - (11) Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru, Uruguay, Venezuela

**********

Group of 15 (G-15)

Note - byproduct of the Non-Aligned Movement

established - 1989

aim - to promote economic cooperation among developing nations;
to act as the main political organ for the Non-Aligned Movement

members - (15) Algeria, Argentina, Brazil, Egypt, India,
Indonesia, Jamaica, Malaysia, Mexico, Nigeria, Peru, Senegal,
Venezuela, Yugoslavia, Zimbabwe

**********

Group of 19 (G-19)

established - NA October 1975

aim - the less developed countries (LDCs) that participated in
the Conference on International Economic Cooperation (CIEC) held
in several sessions between NA December 1975 and 3 June 1977

members - (19) Algeria, Argentina, Brazil, Cameroon, Egypt,
India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Jamaica, Mexico, Nigeria, Pakistan,
Peru, Saudi Arabia, Venezuela, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia

**********

Group of 24 (G-24)

established - NA January 1972

aim - to promote the interests of developing countries in Africa,
Asia, and Latin America within the IMF

members - (24) Algeria, Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, Egypt,
Ethiopia, Gabon, Ghana, Guatemala, India, Iran, Ivory Coast,
Lebanon, Mexico, Nigeria, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Sri Lanka,
Syria, Trinidad and Tobago, Venezuela, Yugoslavia, Zaire

**********

Group of 30 (G-30)

established - NA 1979

aim - to discuss and propose solutions to the world's economic
problems

members - (30) informal group of 30 leading international
bankers, economists, financial experts, and businessmen organized
by Johannes Witteveen (former managing director of the IMF)

**********

Group of 33 (G-33)

established - NA 1987

aim - to promote solutions to international economic problems

members - (33) leading economists from 13 countries

**********

Group of 77 (G-77)

established - NA October 1967

aim - to promote economic cooperation among developing countries;
name persists in spite of increased membership

members - (127 plus the Palestine Liberation Organization)
Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, The
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belize, Benin, Bhutan,
Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei, Burkina, Burma, Burundi,
Cambodia, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad,
Chile, Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus,
Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El
Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, The Gambia,
Ghana, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti,
Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ivory Coast, Jamaica,
Jordan, Kenya, North Korea, South Korea, Kuwait, Laos, Lebanon,
Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives,
Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco,
Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman,
Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines,
Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint
Vincent and the Grenadines, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Solomon Islands,
Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syria, Tanzania,
Thailand, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, UAE,
Uruguay, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Vietnam, Western Samoa, Yemen,
Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe, Palestine Liberation
Organization

**********

Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC)

Note - also known as the Cooperation Council for the Arab States
of the Gulf

established - 25-26 May 1981

aim - to promote regional cooperation in economic, social,
political, and military affairs

members - (6) Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, UAE

**********

Habitat

Note - see United Nations Center for Human Settlements (UNCHS)

**********

Hexagonal Group

Note - HG - the old Pentagonal Group plus one)

established - July 1991

aim - to form an economic and political cooperation group for the
region between the Adriatic and the Baltic Seas

members - (6) Austria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Italy, Poland,
Yugoslavia

**********

high-income countries

Note - another term for the industrialized countries with high
per capita GNPs/GDPs; see developed countries (DCs)

**********

industrial countries

Note - another term for the developed countries; see developed
countries (DCs)

**********

Inter-American Development Bank (IADB)

Note - also known as Banco Interamericano de Desarvollo (BID)

established - 8 April 1959

effective - 30 December 1959

aim - to promote economic and social development in Latin America

members - (44) Argentina, Austria, The Bahamas, Barbados,
Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica,
Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Finland,
France, Germany, Guatemala, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Israel,
Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Mexico, Netherlands, Nicaragua, Norway,
Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Portugal, Spain, Suriname, Sweden,
Switzerland, Trinidad and Tobago, UK, US, Uruguay, Venezuela,
Yugoslavia

**********

Inter-Governmental Authority on Drought and Development (IGADD)

established - NA January 1986

aim - to promote cooperation on drought-related matters

members - (6) Djibouti, Ethiopia, Kenya, Somalia, Sudan, Uganda

**********

International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA)

established - 26 October 1956

effective - 29 July 1957

aim - to promote peaceful uses of atomic energy

members - (115) Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina,
Australia, Austria, Bangladesh, Belarus, Belgium, Bolivia,
Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Chile,
China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia,
Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador,
Estonia, Ethiopia, Finland, France, Gabon, Germany, Ghana,
Greece, Guatemala, Haiti, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia,
Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Japan,
Jordan, Kenya, North Korea, South Korea, Kuwait, Latvia, Lebanon,
Liberia, Libya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar,
Malaysia, Mali, Mauritius, Mexico, Monaco, Mongolia, Morocco,
Namibia, Netherlands, NZ, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway,
Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal,
Qatar, Romania, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Sweden,
Switzerland, Syria, Tanzania, Thailand, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda,
Ukraine, UAE, UK, US, Uruguay, Vatican City, Venezuela, Vietnam,
Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe

**********

International Bank for Economic Cooperation (IBEC)

Note - established in 22 October 1963; aim was to promote
economic cooperation and development - members were Bulgaria,
Cuba, Czechoslovakia, East Germany, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland,
Romania, USSR, Vietnam; now a Russian bank with a new charter

**********

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD)

Note - also known as the World Bank

established - 22 July 1944

effective - 27 December 1945

aim - UN specialized agency that initially promoted economic
rebuilding after World War II and now provides economic
development loans

members - (156) all UN members except Armenia, Azerbaijan,
Brunei, Cuba, Estonia, Kazakhstan, North Korea, Kyrgyzstan,
Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Marshall Islands, Federated
States of Micronesia, Moldova, San Marino, Tajikistan,
Turkmenistan, Ukraine, Uzbekistan; other members are Kiribati,
Tonga

**********

International Chamber of Commerce (ICC)

established - NA 1919

aim - to promote free trade and private enterprise and to
represent business interests at national and international levels

members - (58 national councils) Argentina, Australia, Austria,
Belgium,  Brazil, Burkina, Cameroon, Canada, Colombia, Cyprus,
Denmark, Ecuador, Egypt, Finland, France, Gabon, Germany, Greece,
Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Ivory
Coast, Japan, Jordan, South Korea, Lebanon, Luxembourg,
Madagascar, Mexico, Morocco, Netherlands, Nigeria, Norway,
Pakistan, Portugal, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, South
Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sweden, Switzerland, Syria, Taiwan,
Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, UK, US, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yugoslavia,
Zaire

**********

International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO)

established - 7 December 1944

effective - 4 April 1947

aim - UN specialized agency to promote international cooperation
in civil aviation

members - (164) all UN members except Armenia, Azerbaijan,
Belarus, Bosnia and Hercegovina, Croatia,  Dominica, Estonia,
Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania,
Moldova, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Slovenia, Tajikistan,
Turkmenistan, Ukraine, Uzbekistan, Western Samoa; other members
are Cook Islands, Kiribati, Monaco, Nauru, Switzerland, Tonga

**********

International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC)

established - NA 1863

aim - to provide humanitarian aid in wartime

members - (25 individuals) all Swiss nationals

**********

International Confederation of Free Trade Unions (ICFTU)

established - NA December 1949

aim - to promote the trade union movement

members - (144 national organizations in the following 103 areas)
Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Australia, Austria, The Bahamas,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Basque Country, Belgium, Bermuda, Botswana,
Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina, Canada, Central African Republic,
Chad, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Curacao, Cyprus,
Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador,
El Salvador, Estonia, Falkland Islands, Fiji, Finland, France,
French Polynesia, The Gambia, Germany, Greece, Grenada,
Guatemala, Guyana, Honduras, Hong Kong, Iceland, India,
Indonesia, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Kiribati, South Korea,
Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi,
Malaysia, Malta, Mauritius, Mexico, Montserrat, Morocco,
Netherlands, New Caledonia, NZ, Nicaragua, Norway, Pakistan,
Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal,
Puerto Rico, Russia, Saint Helena, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint
Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, San Marino, Seychelles,
Sierra Leone, Singapore, Spain, Sri Lanka, Suriname, Swaziland,
Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, Thailand, Tonga, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, UK, US, Vatican City, Venezuela,
Western Samoa

**********

International Court of Justice (ICJ)

Note - also known as the World Court

established - 26 June 1945

effective - 24 October 1945

aim - primary judicial organ of the UN

members - (15 judges) elected by the General Assembly and
Security Council to represent all principal legal systems

**********

International Criminal Police Organization (INTERPOL)

established - 13 June 1956

aim - to promote international cooperation between criminal
police authorities

members - (152) Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and
Barbuda, Argentina, Aruba, Australia, Austria, The Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bolivia,
Botswana, Brazil, Brunei, Burkina, Burma, Burundi, Cambodia,
Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad,
Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Denmark,
Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt,
Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, The
Gambia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea,
Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia,
Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Northern Ireland, Israel, Italy, Ivory
Coast, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kiribati, South Korea,
Kuwait, Laos, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Liechtenstein,
Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta,
Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Monaco, Morocco, Mozambique,
Nauru, Nepal, Netherlands, Netherlands Antilles, NZ, Nicaragua,
Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea,
Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Russia,
Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the
Grenadines, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka,
Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Syria, Tanzania,
Thailand, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey,
Uganda, UAE, UK, US, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yemen, Yugoslavia,
Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe

**********

International Development Association (IDA)

established - 26 January 1960

effective - 24 September 1960

aim - UN specialized agency and IBRD affiliate that provides
economic loans for low income countries

members - (136) Part I - (22 more economically advanced
countries) Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland,
France, Germany, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Kuwait,
Luxembourg, Netherlands, NZ, Norway, South Africa, Sweden, UAE,
UK, US

members - Part II - (114 less developed nations) Afghanistan,
Algeria, Argentina, Bangladesh, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia,
Botswana, Brazil, Burkina, Burma, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon,
Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China,
Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica, Cyprus, Djibouti, Dominica,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial
Guinea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, The Gambia, Ghana, Greece,
Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti,
Honduras, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Ivory
Coast, Jordan, Kenya, Kiribati, South Korea, Laos, Lebanon,
Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives,
Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New
Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Rwanda, Saint Kitts
and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Sao
Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Solomon
Islands, Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Syria,
Tanzania, Thailand, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
Turkey, Uganda, Vanuatu, Vietnam, Western Samoa, Yemen,
Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe

**********

International Energy Agency (IEA)

established - 15 November 1974

aim - established by the OECD to promote cooperation on energy
matters, especially emergency oil sharing and relations between
oil consumers and oil producers

members - (21) Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark,
Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands,
NZ, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, UK, US

**********

International Finance Corporation (IFC)

established - 25 May 1955

effective - 20 July 1956

aim - UN specialized agency and IBRD affiliate that helps private
enterprise sector in economic development

members - (133) Afghanistan, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina,
Australia, Austria, The Bahamas, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium,
Belize, Benin, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Burkina, Burma,
Burundi, Cameroon, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa
Rica, Cyprus, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic,
Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France,
Gabon, The Gambia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala,
Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland,
India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Ivory
Coast, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kiribati, South Korea,
Kuwait, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Luxembourg, Madagascar,
Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico,
Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal, Netherlands, NZ, Nicaragua, Niger,
Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea,
Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Portugal, Romania, Rwanda, Saint
Lucia, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Solomon Islands, Somalia, South Africa, Spain, Sri
Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Sweden, Syria, Tanzania, Thailand, Togo,
Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, UAE, UK, US,
Uruguay, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Vietnam, Western Samoa, Yemen,
Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe

**********

International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD)

established - NA November 1974

aim - UN specialized agency that promotes agricultural
development

members - (144) Category I - (21 industrialized aid contributors)
Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France,
Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands,
NZ, Norway, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, UK, US

members - Category II - (12 petroleum-exporting aid contributors)
Algeria, Gabon, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria,
Qatar, Saudi Arabia, UAE, Venezuela

members - Category III - (111 aid recipients) Afghanistan,
Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Bangladesh, Barbados,
Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Burkina, Burma,
Burundi, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad,
Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus,
Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El
Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Fiji, The Gambia, Ghana,
Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti,
Honduras, India, Israel, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya,
North Korea, South Korea, Laos, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia,
Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania,
Mauritius, Mexico, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger,
Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru,
Philippines, Portugal, Romania, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis,
Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Sao Tome and
Principe, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Solomon Islands,
Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syria, Tanzania,
Thailand, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey,
Uganda, Uruguay, Vietnam, Western Samoa, Yemen, Yugoslavia,
Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe

**********

International Investment Bank (IIB)

Note - established on 7 July 1970; to promote economic
development; members were Bulgaria, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, East
Germany, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, USSR, Vietnam; now a
Russian bank with a new charter

**********

International Labor Organization (ILO)

established - 11 April 1919 (affiliated with the UN 14 December
1946)

aim - UN specialized agency concerned with world labor issues

members - (150) all UN members except Armenia, Azerbaijan,
Bhutan, Bosnia and Hercegovina, Brunei, Croatia, Estonia, The
Gambia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania,
Maldives, Marshall Islands, Federation of Micronesia, Moldova,
Oman, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines,
San Marino, Slovenia, South Africa, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan,
Uzbekistan, Vanuatu, Vietnam, Western Samoa; other member is
Switzerland

**********

International Maritime Organization (IMO)

Note - name changed from Intergovernmental Maritime Consultative
Organization (IMCO) on 22 May 1982

established - 17 March 1958

aim - UN specialized agency concerned with world maritime affairs

members - (135) Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina,
Australia, Austria, The Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados,
Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bolivia, Brazil, Brunei, Bulgaria, Burma,
Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Chile, China, Colombia,
Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Denmark,
Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El
Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France,
Gabon, The Gambia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea,
Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India,
Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast,
Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, North Korea, South Korea, Kuwait,
Lebanon, Liberia, Libya, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi,
Malaysia, Maldives, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Monaco,
Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal, Netherlands, NZ, Nicaragua, Nigeria,
Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru,
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Russia, Saint
Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Sao Tome and Principe,
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore,
Solomon Islands, Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname,
Sweden, Switzerland, Syria, Tanzania, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad
and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, UAE, UK, US, Uruguay, Vanuatu,
Venezuela, Vietnam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire

associate members - (2) Hong Kong, Macao

**********

International Maritime Satellite Organization (INMARSAT)

established - 3 September 1976

effective - 26 July 1979

aim - to provide worldwide communications for maritime and other
applications

members - (63) Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Bahrain, Belarus,
Belgium, Brazil, Bulgaria, Cameroon, Canada, Chile, China,
Colombia, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Egypt, Finland, France,
Gabon, Germany, Greece, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ireland,
Israel, Italy, Japan, South Korea, Kuwait, Liberia, Malaysia,
Monaco, Mozambique, Netherlands, NZ, Nigeria, Norway, Oman,
Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar,
Romania, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Spain, Sri Lanka,
Sweden, Switzerland, Tunisia, Turkey, Ukraine, UAE, UK, US,
Yugoslavia

**********

International Monetary Fund (IMF)

established - 22 July 1944

effective - 27 December 1945

aim - UN specialized agency concerned with world monetary
stability and economic development

members - (156) all UN members except Armenia, Azerbaijan,
Belarus, Bosnia and Hercegovina, Brunei, Croatia, Cuba, Estonia,
Kazakhstan, North Korea, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Liechtenstein,
Lithuania, Marshall Islands, Federated States of Micronesia,
Moldova, Russia, San Marino, Slovenia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan,
Ukraine, Uzbekistan; other members are Kiribati and Tonga

**********

International Olympic Committee (IOC)

established - 23 June 1894

aim - to promote the Olympic ideals and administer the Olympic
games: 1992 Winter Olympics in Albertville, France (8-23
February); 1992 Summer Olympics in Barcelona, Spain (25 July-9
August); 1994 Winter Olympics in Lillehammer; Norway (12-27
February); 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta, United States (20
July-4 August); 1998 Winter Olympics in Nagano, Japan (date NA)

members - (167) Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, American Samoa,
Andorra, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Aruba,
Australia, Austria, The Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados,
Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bermuda, Bhutan, Bolivia,
Botswana, Brazil, British Virgin Islands, Brunei, Bulgaria,
Burkina, Burma, Cameroon, Canada, Cayman Islands, Central African
Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Cook Islands,
Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Djibouti,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial
Guinea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, The Gambia,
Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guam, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana,
Haiti, Honduras, Hong Kong, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia,
Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Japan,
Jordan, Kenya, North Korea, South Korea, Kuwait, Laos, Lebanon,
Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Madagascar,
Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius,
Mexico, Monaco, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal,
Netherlands, Netherlands Antilles, NZ, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria,
Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru,
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Puerto Rico, Qatar, Romania,
Russia, Rwanda, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, San Marino,
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore,
Solomon Islands, Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname,
Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Syria, Taiwan, Tanzania,
Thailand, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey,
Uganda, Ukraine, UAE, UK, US, Uruguay, Vanuatu, Venezuela,
Vietnam, Virgin Islands, Western Samoa, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire,
Zambia, Zimbabwe

**********

International Organization for Migration (IOM) - established as
Provisional Intergovernmental Committee for the Movement of
Migrants from Europe; renamed Intergovernmental Committee for
European Migration (ICEM) on 15 November 1952; renamed
Intergovernmental Committee for Migration (ICM) in November 1980;
current name adopted 14 November 1989

established - 5 December 1951

aim - to facilitate orderly international emigration and
immigration

members - (39) Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bangladesh,
Belgium, Bolivia, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cyprus,
Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Germany,
Greece, Guatemala, Honduras, Israel, Italy, Kenya, South Korea,
Luxembourg, Netherlands, Nicaragua, Norway, Panama, Paraguay,
Peru, Philippines, Portugal, Sri Lanka, Sweden, Switzerland,
Thailand, US, Uruguay, Venezuela

observers - (25) Belize, Brazil, Cape Verde, Egypt, Finland,
France, Ghana, Guinea-Bissau, Hungary, Japan, Mexico, NZ,
Pakistan, San Marino, Somalia, Sovereign Military Order of Malta,
Spain, Turkey, Uganda, UK, Vatican City, Vietnam, Yugoslavia,
Zambia, Zimbabwe

**********

International Organization for Standardization (ISO)

established - NA February 1947

aim - to promote the development of international standards

members - (72 national standards organizations) Albania, Algeria,
Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bangladesh, Belgium, Brazil,
Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Cuba, Cyprus,
Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Egypt, Ethiopia, Finland, France,
Germany, Ghana, Greece, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq,
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Japan, Kenya, North
Korea, South Korea, Malaysia, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco,
Netherlands, NZ, Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea,
Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Russia, Saudi Arabia,
Singapore, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Sweden,
Switzerland, Syria, Tanzania, Thailand, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Turkey, UK, US, Venezuela, Vietnam, Yugoslavia

correspondent members - (14) Bahrain, Barbados, Brunei, Guinea,
Hong Kong, Iceland, Jordan, Kuwait, Malawi, Mauritius, Oman,
Senegal, UAE, Uruguay

**********

International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement

established - NA 1928

aim - to promote worldwide humanitarian aid through the
International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) in wartime, and
League of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (LORCS) in
peacetime

members - (9) 2 representatives from ICRC, 2 from LORCS, and 5
from national societies elected by the international conference
of the International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement

**********

International Telecommunication Union (ITU)

established - 9 December 1932

effective - 1 January 1934

affiliated with the UN - 15 November 1947

aim - UN specialized agency concerned with world
telecommunications

members - (164) all UN members except Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bosnia
and Hercegovina, Croatia, Dominica, Estonia, Kazakhstan,
Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Lithuania, Marshall Islands, Federation of
Micronesia, Moldova, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia,
Seychelles, Slovenia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan; other
members are Kiribati, Monaco, Nauru, Switzerland, Tonga, Vatican
City

**********

International Telecommunications Satellite Organization
(INTELSAT)

established - 20 August 1971

effective - 12 February 1973

aim - to develop and operate a global commercial
telecommunications satellite system

members - (118) Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina,
Australia, Austria, The Bahamas, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium,
Benin, Bolivia, Brazil, Burkina, Cameroon, Canada, Central
African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa
Rica, Cyprus, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El
Salvador, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, Germany, Ghana,
Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Haiti, Honduras, Iceland, India,
Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast,
Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, South Korea, Kuwait, Lebanon,
Libya, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia,
Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Monaco, Morocco, Mozambique,
Nepal, Netherlands, NZ, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman,
Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines,
Portugal, Qatar, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore,
Somalia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland,
Sweden, Switzerland, Syria, Tanzania, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad
and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, UAE, UK, US, Uruguay,
Vatican City, Venezuela, Vietnam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire,
Zambia, Zimbabwe

**********

Islamic Development Bank (IDB)

established - 15 December 1973

aim - to promote Islamic economic aid and social development

members - (43 plus the Palestine Liberation Organization)
Afghanistan, Algeria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Brunei,
Burkina, Cameroon, Chad, Comoros, Djibouti, Egypt, Gabon, The
Gambia, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Jordan,
Kuwait, Lebanon, Libya, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania,
Morocco, Niger, Oman, Pakistan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sudan, Syria, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda,
UAE, Yemen, Palestine Liberation Organization

**********

Latin American Economic System (LAES) - , also known as Sistema
Economico Latinoamericana (SELA)

established - 17 October 1975

aim - to promote economic and social development through regional
cooperation

members - (26) Argentina, Barbados, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile,
Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El
Salvador, Grenada, Guatemala, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Jamaica,
Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Suriname, Trinidad and
Tobago, Uruguay, Venezuela

**********

Latin American Integration Association (LAIA) - , also known as
Asociacion Latinoamericana de Integracion (ALADI)

established - 12 August 1980

effective - 18 March 1981

aim - to promote freer regional trade

members - (11) Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia,
Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, Venezuela

**********

League of Arab States (LAS)

Note - see Arab League (AL)

**********

League of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (LORCS)

established - 5 May 1919

aim - to provide humanitarian aid in peacetime

members - (147) Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina,
Australia, Austria, The Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados,
Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria,
Burkina, Burma, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde,
Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo,
Costa Rica, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominica,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Fiji,
Finland, France, The Gambia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras,
Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Italy,
Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, North Korea, South
Korea, Kuwait, Laos, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya,
Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Mali,
Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Monaco, Mongolia, Morocco,
Mozambique, Nepal, Netherlands, NZ, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria,
Norway, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru,
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Russia, Rwanda,
Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, San Marino, Sao
Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Somalia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Syria, Tanzania,
Thailand, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey,
Uganda, UAE, UK, US, Uruguay, Venezuela, Vietnam, Western Samoa,
Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe

associate members - (2) Equatorial Guinea, Gabon

**********

least developed countries (LLDCs)

Note - that subgroup of the less developed countries (LDCs)
initially identified by the UN General Assembly in 1971 as having
no significant economic growth, per capita GNPs/GDPs normally
less than $500, and low literacy rates; also known as the
undeveloped countries.  The 41 LLDCs are: Afghanistan,
Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Botswana, Burkina, Burma, Burundi,
Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Djibouti,
Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, The Gambia, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau,
Haiti, Kiribati, Laos, Lesotho, Malawi, Maldives, Mali,
Mauritania, Mozambique, Nepal, Niger, Rwanda, Sao Tome and
Principe, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sudan, Tanzania, Togo, Tuvalu,
Uganda, Vanuatu, Western Samoa, Yemen

**********

less developed countries (LDCs)

Note - the bottom group in the comprehensive but mutually
exclusive hierarchy of developed countries (DCs), former
USSR/Eastern Europe (former USSR/EE), and less developed
countries (LDCs); mainly countries with low levels of output,
living standards, and technology; per capita GNPs/GDPs are
generally below $5,000 and often less than $1,000; however, the
group also includes a number of countries with high per capita
incomes, areas of advanced technology, and rapid rates of growth;
includes the advanced developing countries, developing countries,
Four Dragons (Four Tigers), least developed countries (LLDCs),
low-income countries, middle-income countries, newly
industrializing economies (NIEs), the South, Third World,
underdeveloped countries, undeveloped countries.  The 173 LDCs
are:  Afghanistan, Algeria, American Samoa, Angola, Anguilla,
Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Aruba, The Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana,
Brazil, British Virgin Islands, Brunei, Burkina, Burma, Burundi,
Cambodia, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Cayman Islands, Central African
Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Christmas Island, Cocos Islands,
Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Cook Islands, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus,
Czechoslovakia, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador,
Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Falkland
Islands, Fiji, French Guiana, French Polynesia, Gabon, The
Gambia, Gaza Strip, Ghana, Gibraltar, Greenland, Grenada,
Guadeloupe, Guam, Guatemala, Guernsey, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau,
Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq,
Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Jersey, Jordan, Kenya, Kiribati, North
Korea, South Korea, Kuwait, Laos, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia,
Libya, Macau, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Isle
of Man, Marshall Islands, Martinique, Mauritania, Mauritius,
Mayotte, Mexico, Federated States of Micronesia, Mongolia,
Montserrat, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nauru, Nepal,
Netherlands Antilles, New Caledonia, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria,
Niue, Norfolk Island, Northern Mariana Islands, Oman, Trust
Territory of the Pacific Islands (Palau), Pakistan, Panama, Papua
New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Pitcairn Islands, Puerto
Rico, Qatar, Reunion, Rwanda, Saint Helena, Saint Kitts and
Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Pierre and Miquelon, Saint Vincent and
the Grenadines, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Solomon Islands, Somalia,
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syria, Taiwan, Tanzania,
Thailand, Togo, Tokelau, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
Turks and Caicos Islands, Tuvalu, UAE, Uganda, Uruguay, Vanuatu,
Venezuela, Vietnam, Virgin Islands, Wallis and Futuna, West Bank,
Western Sahara, Western Samoa, Yemen, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe

**********

low-income countries

Note - another term for those less developed countries with
below-average per capita GNPs/GDPs; see less developed countries
(LDCs)

**********

middle-income countries

Note - another term for those less developed countries with
above-average per capita GNPs/GDPs; see less developed countries
(LDCs)

**********

Missile Technology Control Regime (MTCR)

established - April 1987

aim - to arrest missile proliferation by controlling the export
of key missile technologies and equipment

members - (20) Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark,
Finland, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands,
NZ, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, UK, US

**********

newly industrializing countries (NICs)

Note - former term for the newly industrializing economies; see
newly industrializing economies (NIEs)

**********

newly industrializing economies (NIEs)

Note - that subgroup of the less developed countries (LDCs) that
has experienced particularly rapid industrialization of their
economies; formerly known as the newly industrializing countries
(NICs); also known as advanced developing countries; usually
includes the Four Dragons (Hong Kong, South Korea, Singapore,
Taiwan) plus Brazil and Mexico

**********

Nonaligned Movement (NAM)

established - 1-6 September 1961

aim - political and military cooperation apart from the
traditional East or West blocs

members - (101 plus the Palestine Liberation Organization)
Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, The Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana,
Burkina, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African
Republic, Chad, Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Djibouti,
Ecuador, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Gabon, The Gambia,
Ghana, Grenada, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, India, Indonesia,
Iran, Iraq, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, North Korea,
Kuwait, Laos, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Madagascar,
Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius,
Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger,
Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Qatar, Rwanda, Saint
Lucia, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Seychelles,
Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname,
Swaziland, Syria, Tanzania, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
Uganda, UAE, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Vietnam, Yemen, Yugoslavia,
Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe, Palestine Liberation Organization

observers - (9) Antigua and Barbuda, Brazil, Costa Rica,
Dominica, El Salvador, Mexico, Papua New Guinea, Philippines,
Uruguay

guests - (11) Australia, Austria, Dominican Republic, Finland,
Greece, Portugal, Romania, San Marino, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland

**********

Nordic Council (NC)

established - 16 March 1952

effective - 12 February 1953

aim - to promote regional economic, cultural, and environmental
cooperation

members - (5) Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway, Sweden; note -
Denmark includes Faroe Islands and Greenland

**********

Nordic Investment Bank (NIB)

established - 4 December 1975

effective - 1 June 1976

aim - to promote economic cooperation and development

members - (5) Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway, Sweden

**********

North

Note - a popular term for the rich industrialized countries
generally located in the northern portion of the Northern
Hemisphere; the counterpart of the South; see developed countries
(DCs)

**********

North Atlantic Cooperation Council (NACC) - an extension of NATO

established - 8 November 1991

effective - 20 December 1991

aim - to form a forum to discuss cooperation concerning mutual
political and security issues

members - (35) Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Belgium, Bulgaria,
Canada, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Estonia, France, Germany,
Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Italy, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia,
Lithuania, Luxembourg, Moldova, Netherlands, Norway, Poland,
Portugal, Romania, Russia, Spain, Tajikistan, Turkey,
Turkmenistan, Ukraine, UK, US, Uzbekistan

**********

North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO)

established - 17 September 1949

aim - mutual defense and cooperation in other areas

members - (16) Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, Greece,
Iceland, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain,
Turkey, UK, US

**********

Nuclear Energy Agency (NEA)

established - NA 1958

aim - associated with OECD, seeks to promote the peaceful uses of
nuclear energy

members - (23) Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark,
Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan,
Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden,
Switzerland, Turkey, UK, US

**********

Nuclear Suppliers Group (NSG)

Note - also known as the London Suppliers Group

established - 1974

aim - to establish guidelines on exports of enrichment and
processing plant assistance and nuclear exports to countries of
proliferation concern and regions of conflict and instability

members - (27) Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada,
Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece,
Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway,
Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland,
UK, US

**********

Organismo para la Proscripcion de las Armas Nucleares en la
America Latina y el Caribe (OPANAL)

Note - see Agency for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin
America and the Caribbean (OPANAL)

**********

Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD)

established - 14 December 1960, effective 30 September 1961

aim - to promote economic cooperation and development

members - (24) Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark,
Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan,
Luxembourg, Netherlands, NZ, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden,
Switzerland, Turkey, UK, US

special member - (1) Yugoslavia

**********

Organization of African Unity (OAU)

established - 25 May 1963

aim - to promote unity and cooperation among African states

members - (50) Algeria, Angola, Benin, Botswana, Burkina,
Burundi, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad,
Comoros, Congo, Djibouti, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia,
Gabon, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Ivory Coast,
Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Madagascar, Malawi, Mali,
Mauritania, Mauritius, Mozambique, Niger, Nigeria, Rwanda,
Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic, Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal,
Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sudan, Swaziland, Tanzania,
Togo, Tunisia, Uganda, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe

**********

Organization of American States (OAS)

established - 30 April 1948

effective - 13 December 1951

aim - to promote peace and security as well as economic and
social development

members - (35) Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, The Bahamas,
Barbados, Belize, Bolivia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa
Rica, Cuba (excluded from formal participation since 1962),
Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Grenada,
Guatemala, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Jamaica, Mexico, Nicaragua,
Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint
Vincent and the Grenadines, Suriname, Trinidad and Tobago, US,
Uruguay, Venezuela

observers - (25) Algeria, Austria, Belgium, Belize, Cyprus, EC,
Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Finland, France, Germany, Greece,
Guyana, Israel, Italy, Japan, South Korea, Morocco, Netherlands,
Pakistan, Portugal, Saudi Arabia, Spain, Switzerland, Vatican
City

**********

Organization of Arab Petroleum Exporting Countries (OAPEC)

established - 9 January 1968

aim - to promote cooperation in the petroleum industry

members - (11) Algeria, Bahrain, Egypt, Iraq, Kuwait, Libya,
Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Syria, Tunisia, UAE

**********

Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS)

established - 18 June 1981

effective - 4 July 1981

aim - to promote political, economic, and defense cooperation

members - (8) Antigua and Barbuda, British Virgin Islands,
Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint
Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines

**********

Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC)

established - 14 September 1960

aim - to coordinate petroleum policies

members - (13) Algeria, Ecuador, Gabon, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq,
Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, UAE, Venezuela

**********

Organization of the Islamic Conference (OIC)

established - 22-25 September 1969

aim - to promote Islamic solidarity and cooperation in economic,
social, cultural, and political affairs

members - (47 plus the Palestine Liberation Organization)
Afghanistan (suspended), Albania, Algeria, Azerbaijan, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Benin, Brunei, Burkina, Cameroon, Chad, Comoros,
Djibouti, Egypt, Gabon, The Gambia, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau,
Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kuwait, Lebanon,
Libya, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Morocco, Niger,
Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra
Leone, Somalia, Sudan, Syria, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, UAE,
Yemen, Palestine Liberation Organization<ATT>

observer - (1) Turkish-Cypriot administered area of Cyprus

**********

Paris Club

Note - see Group of 10

**********

Permanent Court of Arbitration (PCA)

established - NA 1899

aim - to facilitate the settlement of international disputes

members - (75) Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belarus, Belgium,
Bolivia, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada,
Chile, China, Colombia, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Dominican
Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Fiji, Finland, France,
Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland,
India, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Italy, Japan, Laos, Lebanon,
Luxembourg, Malta, Mauritius, Mexico, Netherlands, NZ, Nicaragua,
Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Poland,
Portugal, Romania, Russia, Senegal, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, Turkey, Uganda,
Ukraine, UK, US, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zimbabwe

**********

Population Commission

established - 3 October 1946

aim - ECOSOC organization dealing with population matters

members - (27) selected on a rotating basis from all regions

**********

Rio Group (RG)

established - NA 1988

aim - a consultation mechanism on regional Latin American issues

members - (11) Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia,
Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, Venezuela; note -
Panama was expelled in 1988

**********

Second World

Note - another term for the traditionally Marxist-Leninist states
with authoritarian governments and command economies based on the
Soviet model; the term is fading from use; see centrally planned
economies

**********

socialist countries

Note - in general, countries in which the government owns and
plans the use of the major factors of production; note - the term
is sometimes used incorrectly as a synonym for Communist
countries

**********

South

Note - a popular term for the poorer, less industrialized
countries generally located south of the developed countries; the
counterpart of the North; see less developed countries (LDCs)

**********

South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC)

established - 8 December 1985

aim - to promote economic, social, and cultural cooperation

members - (7) Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Maldives, Nepal,
Pakistan, Sri Lanka

**********

South Pacific Commission (SPC)

established - 6 February 1947

effective - 29 July 1948

aim - to promote regional cooperation in economic and social
matters

members - (27) American Samoa, Australia, Cook Islands, Fiji,
France, French Polynesia, Guam, Kiribati, Marshall Islands,
Federated States of Micronesia, Nauru, New Caledonia, NZ, Niue,
Northern Mariana Islands, Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands
(Palau), Papua New Guinea, Pitcairn Islands, Solomon Islands,
Tokelau, Tonga, Tuvalu, UK, US, Vanuatu, Wallis and Futuna,
Western Samoa

**********

South Pacific Forum (SPF)

established - 5 August 1971

aim - to promote regional cooperation in political matters

members - (15) Australia, Cook Islands, Fiji, Kiribati, Marshall
Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, Nauru, NZ, Niue, Papua
New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, Vanuatu, Western
Samoa

observer - (1) Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands (Palau)

**********

Southern African Customs Union (SACU)

established - 11 December 1969

aim - to promote free trade and cooperation in customs matters

members - (9) Bophuthatswana, Botswana, Ciskei, Lesotho, Namibia,
South Africa, Swaziland, Transkei, Venda

**********

Southern African Development Coordination Conference (SADCC)

established - 1 April 1980

aim - to promote regional economic development and reduce
dependence on South Africa

members - (10) Angola, Botswana, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique,
Namibia, Swaziland, Tanzania, Zambia, Zimbabwe

**********

Southern Cone Common Market

**********

(MERCOSUR)

established - 26 March 1991

aim - regional economic cooperation

members - (4) Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay, Uruguay

**********

Statistical Commission

established - 21 June 1946

aim - ECOSOC organization dealing with development and
standardization of national statistics

members - (25) selected on a rotating basis from all regions

**********

Third World

Note - another term for the less developed countries; the term is
fading from use; see less developed countries (LDCs)

**********

underdeveloped countries

Note - refers to those less developed countries with the
potential for above-average economic growth; see less developed
countries (LDCs)

**********

undeveloped countries

Note - refers to those extremely poor less developed countries
(LDCs) with little prospect for economic growth; see least
developed countries (LLDCs)

**********

Union Douaniere et Economique de l'Afrique Centrale (UDEAC)

Note - see Central African Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC)

**********

United Nations (UN)

established - 26 June 1945

effective - 24 October 1945

aim - to maintain international peace and security as well as
promote cooperation involving economic, social, cultural and
humanitarian problems

members - (178) Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Antigua
and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan,
The Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium,
Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Bosnia and Hercegovina, Botswana,
Brazil, Brunei, Bulgaria, Burkina, Burma, Burundi, Cambodia,
Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad,
Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica, Croatia,
Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominica,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial
Guinea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, The
Gambia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea,
Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India,
Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast,
Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, North Korea, South
Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho,
Liberia, Libya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar,
Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands,
Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Federated States of Micronesia,
Moldova, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal,
Netherlands, NZ, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman,
Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines,
Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Russia, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and
Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, San Marino,
Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra
Leone, Singapore, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, Somalia, South
Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden,
Syria, Tajikistan, Tanzania, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Turkmenistan, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, UAE, UK, US,
Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Vietnam, Western Samoa,
Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe; note - all UN members
are represented in the General Assembly

observers - (3 and the Palestine Liberation Organization) Monaco,
Switzerland, Vatican City, Palestine Liberation Organization

**********

United Nations Angola Verification Mission (UNAVEM)

established - 20 December 1988

aim - established by the UN Security Council to verify the
withdrawal of Cuban troops from Angola

members - (10) Algeria, Argentina, Brazil, Congo, Czechoslovakia,
India, Jordan, Norway, Spain, Yugoslavia

**********

United Nations Center for Human Settlements (UNCHS or Habitat)

established - 12 October 1978

aim - to assist in solving human settlement problems

members - (88) selected on a rotating basis from all regions

**********

United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF)

Note - acronym retained from the predecessor organization UN
International Children's Emergency Fund

established - 11 December 1946

aim - to help establish child health and welfare services

members - (41) selected on a rotating basis from all regions

**********

United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD)

established - 30 December 1964

aim - to promote international trade

members - (181) all UN members plus Monaco, Switzerland, Tonga,
Vatican City

**********

United Nations Development Program (UNDP)

established - 22 November 1965

aim - to provide technical assistance to stimulate economic and
social development

members - (48) selected on a rotating basis from all regions

**********

United Nations Disengagement Observer Force (UNDOF)

established - 31 May 1974

aim - established by the UN Security Council to observe the 1973
Arab-Israeli ceasefire

members - (4) Austria, Canada, Finland, Poland

**********

United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization
(UNESCO)

established - 16 November 1945

effective - 4 November 1946

aim - to promote cooperation in education, science, and culture

members - (159) all UN members except Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bosnia
and Hercegovina, Brunei, Croatia, Estonia, Kazakhstan,
Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Marshall Islands,
Federated States of Micronesia, Moldova, Singapore, Slovenia,
Solomon Islands, South Africa, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, UK, US,
Uzbekistan, Vanuatu; other members are Cook Islands, Kiribati,
Monaco, Switzerland, Tonga

associate members - (3) Aruba, British Virgin Islands,
Netherlands Antilles

**********

United Nations Environment Program (UNEP)

established - 15 December 1972

aim - to promote international cooperation on all environmental
matters

members - (58) selected on a rotating basis from all regions

**********

United Nations Force in Cyprus (UNFICYP)

established - 4 March 1964

aim - established by the UN Security Council to serve as a
peacekeeping force beween Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots in
Cyprus

members - (8) Australia, Austria, Canada, Denmark, Finland,
Ireland, Sweden, UK

**********

United Nations General Assembly

established - 26 June 1945

effective - 24 October 1945

aim - primary deliberative organ in the UN

members - (178) all UN members are represented in the General
Assembly

**********

United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO)

established - 17 November 1966

effective - 1 January 1967

aim - UN specialized agency that promotes industrial development
especially among the members

members - (150) all UN members except Antigua and Barbuda,
Armenia, Australia, Azerbaijan, Bosnia and Hercegovina, Brunei,
Burma, Cambodia, Chad, Croatia, Djibouti, Estonia, Iceland,
Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Liberia, Liechtenstein,
Lithuania, Marshall Islands, Federated States of Micronesia,
Moldova, Singapore, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, South Africa,
Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, Western Samoa; other
members are Switzerland, Tonga

**********

United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL)

established - 19 March 1978

aim - established by the UN Security Council to confirm the
withdrawal of Israeli forces, restore peace, and reestablish
Lebanese authority in southern Lebanon

members - (9) Fiji, Finland, France, Ghana, Ireland, Italy,
Nepal, Norway, Sweden

**********

United Nations Iran-Iraq Military Observer Group (UNIIMOG)

established - 9 August 1988

aim - established by the UN Security Council to observe the 1988
Iran-Iraq ceasefire

members - (25) Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bangladesh, Canada,
Denmark, Finland, Ghana, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Ireland,
Italy, Kenya, Malaysia, NZ, Nigeria, Norway, Poland, Senegal,
Sweden, Turkey, Uruguay, Yugoslavia, Zambia

**********

United Nations Military Observer Group in India and Pakistan
(UNMOGIP)

established - 13 August 1948

aim - established by the UN Security Council to observe the 1949
India-Pakistan ceasefire

members - (8) Belgium, Chile, Denmark, Finland, Italy, Norway,
Sweden, Uruguay

**********

United Nations Office of the High Commissioner for Refugees
(UNHCR)

established - 3 December 1949

effective - 1 January 1951

aim - to try to ensure the humanitarian treatment of refugees and
find permanent solutions to refugee problems

members - (43) Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium,
Brazil, Canada, China, Colombia, Denmark, Finland, France,
Germany, Greece, Iran, Israel, Italy, Japan, Lebanon, Lesotho,
Madagascar, Morocco, Namibia, Netherlands, Nicaragua, Nigeria,
Norway, Pakistan, Somalia, Sudan, Sweden, Switzerland, Tanzania,
Thailand, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, UK, US, Vatican City,
Venezuela, Yugoslavia, Zaire

**********

United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA)

Note - acronym retained from predecessor organization UN Fund for
Population Activities

established - NA July 1967

aim - to promote assistance in dealing with population problems

members - (51) selected on a rotating basis from all regions

**********

United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in
the Near East (UNRWA)

established - 8 December 1949

aim - to provide assistance to Palestinian refugees

members - (10) Belgium, Egypt, France, Japan, Jordan, Lebanon,
Syria, Turkey, UK, US

**********

United Nations Secretariat

established - 26 June 1945

effective - 24 October 1945

aim - primary administrative organ of the UN

members - Secretary General appointed for a five-year term by the
General Assembly on the recommendation of the Security Council

**********

United Nations Security Council

established - 26 June 1945

effective - 24 October 1945

aim - to maintain international peace and security

permanent members - (5) China, France, Russia, UK, US

nonpermanent members - (10) elected for two-year terms by the UN
General Assembly; Austria (1991-92), Belgium (1991-92), Cuba
(1990-91), Ecuador (1991-92), India (1991-92), Ivory Coast (1990-
91), Romania (1990-91), Yemen (1990-91), Zaire (1990-91),
Zimbabwe (1991-92)

**********

United Nations Truce Supervision Organization (UNTSO)

established - NA May 1948

aim - initially established by the UN Security Council to
supervise the 1948 Arab-Israeli ceasefire and subsequently
extended to work in the Sinai, Lebanon, Jordan, Afghanistan, and
Pakistan

members - (19) Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada,
Chile, China, Denmark, Finland, France, Ireland, Italy,
Netherlands, NZ, Norway, Russia, Sweden, Switzerland, US

**********

United Nations Trusteeship Council

established - 26 June 1945

effective - 24 October 1945

aim - to supervise the administration of the UN trust
territories; only one of the original 11 trusteeships remains -
the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands (Palau)

members - (5) China, France, Russia, UK, US

**********

Universal Postal Union (UPU)

established - 9 October 1874, affiliated with the UN 15 November
1947

effective - 1 July 1948

aim - UN specialized agency that promotes international postal
cooperation

members - (168) all UN members except Antigua and Barbuda,
Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bosnia and Hercegovina,  Estonia,
Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Lithuania, Marshall Islands,
Federated States of Micronesia, Moldova, Namibia, Slovenia,
South Africa, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan; other members
are Kiribati, Monaco, Nauru, Netherlands Antilles, Switzerland,
Tonga, Tuvalu, UK Overseas Territories, Vatican City

**********

Warsaw Pact (WP)

Note - was established 14 May 1955 to promote mutual defense;
members met 1 July 1991 to dissolve the alliance; member states
were Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Romania, and the
USSR

**********

West African Development Bank (WADB)

Note - also known as Banque Ouest-Africaine de Developpement
(BOAD)

established - 14 November 1973

aim - to promote economic development and integration

members - (7) Benin, Burkina, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal,
Togo

**********

West African Economic Community (CEAO)

Note - acronym from Communaute Economique de l'Afrique de l'Ouest

established - 3 June 1972

aim - to promote regional economic development

members - (7) Benin, Burkina, Ivory Coast, Mali, Mauritania,
Niger, Senegal

observer - (1) Togo

**********

Western European Union (WEU)

established - 23 October 1954

effective - 6 May 1955

aim - mutual defense and progressive political unification

members - (10) Belgium, France, Germany, Greece, Italy,
Luxembourg, Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, UK

**********

World Bank
<p>see International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(IBRD)

**********

World Bank Group

Note - includes International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (IBRD), International Development Association (IDA),
and International Finance Corporation (IFC)

**********

World Confederation of Labor (WCL)

established - 19 June 1920 as the International Federation of
Christian Trade Unions (IFCTU), renamed 4 October 1968

aim - to promote the trade union movement

members - (96 national organizations) Algeria, Angola, Antigua
and Barbuda, Argentina, Aruba, Austria, Bangladesh, Belgium,
Belize, Benin, Bolivia, Bonaire Island, Botswana, Brazil,
Burkina, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Central African Republic,
Chad, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Curacao, Cyprus,
Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, France,
French Guiana, Gabon, The Gambia, Ghana, Grenada, Guadaloupe,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hong Kong, Indonesia,
Italy, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Kenya, Lesotho, Liechtenstein,
Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malaysia, Mali, Martinique, Mauritius,
Mexico, Montserrat, Namibia, Netherlands, Nicaragua, Niger,
Nigeria, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland,
Portugal, Puerto Rico, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint
Lucia, Saint Martin, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Senegal,
Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Spain, Sri Lanka, Suriname,
Switzerland, Tanzania, Thailand, Togo, UK, US, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Vietnam, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe

**********

World Court
<p>see International Court of Justice (ICJ)

**********

World Federation of Trade Unions (WFTU)

established - NA 1945

aim - to promote the trade union movement

members - (67) Afghanistan, Angola, Argentina, Australia,
Austria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bolivia, Brazil, Burkina, Cambodia,
Chile, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Dominican
Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Ethiopia, France, The Gambia,
Guatemala, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, India,
Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, North Korea,
Kuwait, Laos, Lebanon, Madagascar, Mauritius, Mongolia, Namibia,
Nepal, Nicaragua, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru,
Philippines, Puerto Rico, Russia, Saint Vincent and the
Grenadines, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Solomon Islands, South Africa,
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Syria, Trinidad and Tobago, Uruguay, Venezuela,
Vietnam, Yemen, Zaire

**********

World Food Council (WFC)

established - 17 December 1974

aim - ECOSOC organization that studies world food problems and
recommends solutions

members - (36) selected on a rotating basis from all regions

**********

World Food Program (WFP)

established - 24 November 1961

aim - ECOSOC organization that provides food aid to assist in
development or disaster relief

members - (30) selected on a rotating basis from all regions

**********

World Health Organization (WHO)

established - 22 July 1946

effective - 7 April 1948

aim - UN specialized agency concerned with health matters

members - (164) all UN members except Armenia, Azerbaijan,
Belize, Bosnia and Hercegovina, China, Croatia, Estonia,
Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania,
Marshall Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, Moldova,
Slovenia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan; other members are
Cook Islands, Kiribati, Monaco, Switzerland, Tonga

**********

World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO)

established - 14 July 1967

effective - 26 April 1970

aim - UN specialized agency concerned with the protection of
literary, artistic, and scientific works

members - (125) Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia, Austria,
The Bahamas, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Benin,
Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina, Burundi, Cameroon, Canada, Central
African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa
Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Ecuador, Egypt, El
Salvador, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, The Gambia, Germany,
Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Haiti, Honduras,
Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy,
Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, North Korea, South
Korea, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Liechtenstein,
Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Mali, Malta,
Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Monaco, Mongolia, Morocco,
Netherlands, NZ, Nicaragua, Niger, Norway, Pakistan, Panama,
Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania,
Russia, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore,
Somalia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname,
Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Tanzania, Thailand, Togo,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, UAE, UK,
US, Uruguay, Vatican City, Venezuela, Vietnam, Yemen, Yugoslavia,
Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe

**********

World Meteorological Organization (WMO)

established - 11 October 1947

effective - 4 April 1951

aim - specialized UN agency concerned with meteorological
cooperation

members - (162) all UN members except Armenia, Azerbaijan,
Bhutan, Bosnia and Hercegovina, Croatia, Equatorial Guinea,
Estonia, Grenada, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Liechtenstein,
Lithuania, Moldova, Namibia, Poland, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint
Vincent and the Grenadines, Slovenia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan,
Uzbekistan, Western Samoa; South Africa is included although WMO
membership is suspended; other members are British Caribbean
Territories, French Polynesia, Hong Kong, Slovenia, Netherlands
Antilles, New Caledonia, Switzerland

**********

World Tourism Organization (WTO)

established - 2 January 1975

aim - promote tourism as a means of contributing to economic
development, international understanding, and peace

members - (102) Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina,
Australia, Austria, Bangladesh, Belgium, Benin, Bolivia, Brazil,
Burkina, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Chad, Chile, China,
Colombia, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Dominican Republic, Ecuador,
Egypt, Ethiopia, Finland, France, Gabon, The Gambia, Germany,
Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guinea, Haiti, Hungary, India, Indonesia,
Iran, Iraq, Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan,
Kenya, Kiribati, North Korea, South Korea, Kuwait, Laos, Lebanon,
Lesotho, Libya, Madagascar, Malawi, Maldives, Mali, Malta,
Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Nepal,
Netherlands, Niger, Nigeria, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Portugal,
Romania, Russia, Rwanda, San Marino, Sao Tome and Principe,
Senegal, Sierra Leone, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Switzerland,
Syria, Tanzania, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, UAE, US, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Vietnam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe

associate members - (4) Aruba, Macau, Netherlands Antilles,
Puerto Rico

permanent observer - (1) Vatican City

**********

Zangger Committee (ZC)

established - early 1970s

aim - to establish guidelines for the export control provisions
of the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty

members - (23) Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada,
Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Finland, Germany, Greece, Hungary,
Ireland, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Poland,
Romania, Russia, Sweden, Switzerland, UK, US


                     Appendix D: Weights and Measures
Mathematical Notation
Mathematical Power                    Name
10^18 or 1,000,000,000,000,000,000    one quintillion
10^15 or 1,000,000,000,000,000        one quadrillion
10^12 or 1,000,000,000,000            one trillion
10^9 or 1,000,000,000                 one billion
10^6 or 1,000,000                     one million
10^3 or 1,000                         one thousand
10^2 or 100                           one hundred
10^1 or 10                            ten
10^0 or 1                             one
10^-1 or 0.1                          one tenth
10^-2 or 0.01                         one hundredth
10^-3 or 0.001                        one thousandth
10^-6 or 0.000 001                    one millionth
10^-9 or 0.000 000 001                one billionth
10^-12 or 0.000 000 000 001           one trillionth
10^-15 or 0.000 000 000 000 001       one quadrillionth
10^-18 or 0.000 000 000 000 000 001   one quintillionth
Metric Interrelationships
Conversions from a multiple or submultiple to the basic units of meters,
liters, or grams can be done using the table. For example, to convert from
kilometers to meters, multiply by 1,000 (9.26 kilometers equals 9,260
meters) or to convert from meters to kilometers, multiply by 0.001 (9,260
meters equals 9.26 kilometers)
Prefix       Symbol    Length,    Area       Volume
                       weight,
                       capacity
exa          E         10^18      10^36      10^54
peta         P         10^15      10^30      10^45
tera         T         10^12      10^24      10^36
giga         G         10^9       10^18      10^27
mega         M         10^6       10^12      10^18
hectokilo    hk        10^5       10^10      10^15
myria        ma        10^4       10^8       10^12
kilo         k         10^3       10^6       10^9
hecto        h         10^2       10^4       10^6
basic unit   -         1 meter,   1 meter^2  1 meter^3
                       1 gram,
                       1 liter
deci         d         10^-1      10^-2      10^-3
centi        c         10^-2      10^-4      10^-6
milli        m         10^-3      10^-6      10^-9
decimilli    dm        10^-4      10^-8      10^-12
centimilli   cm        10^-5      10^-10     10^-15
micro        u         10^-6      10^-12     10^-18
nano         n         10^-9      10^-18     10^-27
pico         p         10^-12     10^-24     10^-36
femto        f         10^-15     10^-30     10^-45
atto         a         10^-18     10^-36     10^-54

Equivalents

Unit                    Metric Equivalent            US Equivalent
acre                    0.404 685 64 hectares        43,560 feet^2
acre                    4,046,856 4 meters^2         4,840 yards^2
acre                    0.004 046 856 4              0.001 562 5 miles^2,
                        kilometers^2                 statute
are                     100 meters^2                 119.599 yards^2
barrel (petroleum, US)  158.987 29 liters            42 gallons
barrel (proof spirits,  151.416 47 liters            40 gallons
US)
barrel (beer, US)       117.347 77 liters            31 gallons
bushel                  35.239 07 liters             4 pecks
cable                   219.456 meters               120 fathoms
chain (surveyor's)      20.116 8 meters              66 feet
cord (wood)             3.624 556 meters^3           128 feet^3
cup                     0.236 588 2 liters           8 ounces, liquid (US)
degrees, celsius        (water boils at 100.         multiply by 1.8 and add
                        degrees C, freezes at 0. C)  32 to obtain .F
degrees, fahrenheit     subtract 32 and divide by    (water boils at 212 .F,
                        1.8 to obtain .C             freezes at 32 .F)
dram, avoirdupois       1.771 845 2 grams 0.062      5 ounces, avoirdupois
dram, troy              3.887 934 6 grams            0.125 ounces, troy
dram, liquid (US)       3.696 69 milliliters         0.125 ounces, liquid
fathom                  1.828 8 meters               6 feet
foot                    30.48 centimeters
foot                    0.304 8 meters               0.333 333 3 yards
foot                    0.000 304 8 kilometers       0.000 189 39 miles,
                                                     statute
foot^2                  929.030 4 centimeters^2      144 inches^2
foot                    2 0.092 903 04 meters^2      0.111 111 1 yards^2
foot^3                  28.316 846 592 liters        7.480 519 gallons
foot^3                  0.028 316 847 meters^3       1,728 inches^3
furlong                 201.168 meters               220 yards
gallon, liquid (US)     3.785 411 784 liters         4 quarts, liquid
gill (US)               118.294 118 milliliters      4 ounces, liquid
grain                   64.798 91 milligrams         0.002 285 71 ounces,
                                                     advp.
gram                    1,000 milligrams             0.035 273 96 ounces,
                                                     advp.
hand (height of horse)  10.16 centimeters            4 inches
hectare                 10,000 meters^2              2.471 053 8 acres
hundredweight, long     50.802 345 kilograms         112 pounds, avoirdupois
hundredweight, short    45.359 237 kilograms         100 pounds, avoirdupois
inch                    2.54 centimeters             0.083 333 33 feet
inch2                   6.451 6 centimeters^2        0.006 944 44 feet^2
inch3                   16.387 064 centimeters^3     0.000 578 7 feet^3
inch3                   16.387 064 milliliters       0.029 761 6 pints, dry
inch3                   16.387 064 milliliters       0.034 632 0 pints, liquid
kilogram                0.001 tons, metric           2.204 623 pounds,
                                                     avoirdupois
kilometer               1,000 meters                 0.621 371 19 miles,
                                                     statute
kilometer^2             100 hectares                 247.105 38 acres
kilometer^2             1,000,000 meters^2           0.386 102 16 miles^2,
                                                     statute
knot (1 nautical        1.852 kilometers/hour        1.151 statute miles/hour
mi/hr)
league, nautical        5.559 552 kilometers         3 miles, nautical
league, statute         4.828.032 kilometers         3 miles, statute
link (surveyor's)       20.116 8 centimeters         7.92 inches
liter                   0.001 meters^3               61.023 74 inches^3
liter                   0.1 dekaliter                0.908 083 quarts, dry
liter                   1,000 milliliters            1.056 688 quarts, liquid
meter                   100 centimeters              1.093 613 yards
meter^2                 10,000 centimeters^2         1.195 990 yards^2
meter^3                 1,000 liters                 1.307 951 yards^3
micron                  0.000 001 meter              0.000 039 4 inches
mil                     0.025 4 millimeters          0.001 inch
mile, nautical          1.852 kilometers             1.150 779 4 miles,
                                                     statute
mile^2, nautical        3.429 904 kilometers^2       1.325 miles^2, statute
mile, statute           1.609 344 kilometers         5,280 feet or 8 furlongs
mile^2, statute         258.998 811 hectares         640 acres or 1 section
mile^2, statute         2.589 988 11 kilometers^2    0.755 miles^2, nautical
minim (US)              0.061 611 52 milliliters     0.002 083 33 ounces,
                                                     liquid
ounce, avoirdupois      28.349 523 125 grams         437.5 grains
ounce, liquid (US)      29.573 53 milliliters        0.062 5 pints, liquid
ounce, troy             31.103 476 8 grams           480 grains
pace                    76.2 centimeters             30 inches
peck                    8.809 767 5 liters           8 quarts, dry
pennyweight             1.555 173 84 grams           24 grains
pint, dry (US)          0.550 610 47 liters          0.5 quarts, dry
pint, liquid (US)       0.473 176 473 liters         0.5 quarts, liquid
point (typographical)   0.351 459 8 millimeters      0.013 837 inches
pound, avoirdupois      453.592 37 grams             16 ounces, avourdupois
pound, troy             373.241 721 6 grams          12 ounces, troy
quart, dry (US)         1.101 221 liters             2 pints, dry
quart, liquid (US)      0.946 352 946 liters         2 pints, liquid
quintal                 100 kilograms                220.462 26 pounds, avdp.
rod                     5.029 2 meters               5.5 yards
scruple                 1.295 978 2 grams            20 grains
section (US)            2.589 988 1 kilometers^2     1 mile2, statute or 640
                                                     acres
span                    22.86 centimeters            9 inches
stere                   1 meter3                     1.307 95 yards^3
tablespoon              14.786 76 milliliters        3 teaspoons
teaspoon                4.928 922 milliliters        0.333 333 tablespoons
ton, long or            1,016.046 909 kilograms      2,240 pounds, avoirdupois
deadweight

ton, metric             1,000 kilograms              2,204.623 pounds,
                                                     avoirdupois
ton, metric             1,000 kilograms              32,150.75 ounces, troy
ton, register           2.831 684 7 meters^3         100 feet^3
ton, short              907.184 74 kilograms         2,000 pounds, avoirdupois
township (US)           93.239 572 kilometers^2      36 miles^2, statute
yard                    0.914 4 meters               3 feet
yard^2                  0.836 127 36 meters^2        9 feet^2
yard^3                  0.764 554 86 meters^3        27 feet^3
yard^3                  764.554 857 984 liters       201.974 gallons


**********

Appendix E

Cross-Reference List of Geographic Names

    This list indicates where various names including all United States
Foreign Service Posts, alternate names, former names, and political or
geographical portions of larger entities can be found in The World
Factbook. Spellings are not necessarily those approved by the United
States Board on Geographic Names (BGN).  Alternate names are included in
parentheses; additional information is included in brackets.

Name                              Entry in The World Factbook

Abidjan [US Embassy]              Ivory Coast
Abu Dhabi [US Embassy]            United Arab Emirates
Acapulco [US Consular Agency]     Mexico
Accra [US Embassy]                Ghana
Adana [US Consulate]              Turkey
Addis Ababa [US Embassy]          Ethiopia
Adelaide [US Consular Agency]     Australia
Adelie Land (Terre Adelie)        Antarctica
  [claimed by France]
Aden                              Yemen
Aden, Gulf of                     Indian Ocean
Admiralty Islands                 Papua New Guinea
Adriatic Sea                      Atlantic Ocean
Aegean Islands                    Greece
Aegean Sea                        Atlantic Ocean
Afars and Issas, French           Djibouti
  Territory of the (F.T.A.I.)
Agalega Islands                   Mauritius
Aland Islands                     Finland
Alaska                            United States
Alaska, Gulf of                   Pacific Ocean
Aldabra Islands                   Seychelles
Alderney                          Guernsey
Aleutian Islands                  United States
Alexander Island                  Antarctica
Alexandria [US Consulate General] Egypt
Algiers [US Embassy]              Algeria
Alhucemas, Penon de               Spain
Alma-Ata                          Kazakhstan
Alphonse Island                   Seychelles
Amami Strait                      Pacific Ocean
Amindivi Islands                  India
Amirante Isles                    Seychelles
Amman [US Embassy]                Jordan
Amsterdam [US Consulate General]  Netherlands
Amsterdam Island (Ile Amsterdam)  French Southern and Antarctic Lands
Amundsen Sea                      Pacific Ocean
Amur                              China; Russia
Andaman Islands                   India
Andaman Sea                       Indian Ocean
Anegada Passage                   Atlantic Ocean
Anglo-Egyptian Sudan              Sudan
Anjouan                           Comoros
Ankara [US Embassy]               Turkey
Annobon                           Equatorial Guinea
Antananarivo [US Embassy]         Madagascar
Antipodes Islands                 New Zealand
Antwerp [US Consulate General]    Belgium
Aozou Strip [claimed by Libya]    Chad
Aqaba, Gulf of                    Indian Ocean
Arabian Sea                       Indian Ocean
Arafura Sea                       Pacific Ocean
Argun                             China; Russia
Ascension Island                  Saint Helena
Ashgabat (Ashkhabad)              Turkmenistan
Ashkhabad [Interim Chancery]      Turkmenistan
Assumption Island                 Seychelles
Asuncion [US Embassy]             Paraguay
Asuncion Island                   Northern Mariana Islands
Atacama                           Chile
Athens [US Embassy]               Greece
Attu                              United States
Auckland [US Consulate General]   New Zealand
Auckland Islands                  New Zealand
Australes Iles (Iles Tubuai)      French Polynesia
Axel Heiberg Island               Canada
Azores                            Portugal
Azov, Sea of                      Atlantic Ocean

Bab el Mandeb                     Indian Ocean
Babuyan Channel                   Pacific Ocean
Babuyan Islands                   Philippines
Baffin Bay                        Arctic Ocean
Baffin Island                     Canada
Baghdad                           Iraq
Baku                              Azerbaijan
Baky (Baku)                       Azerbaijan
Balabac Strait                    Pacific Ocean
Balearic Islands                  Spain
Balearic Sea (Iberian Sea)        Atlantic Ocean
Bali [US Consular Agency]         Indonesia
Bali Sea                          Indian Ocean
Balintang Channel                 Pacific Ocean
Balintang Islands                 Philippines
Balleny Islands                   Antarctica
Balochistan                       Pakistan
Baltic Sea                        Atlantic Ocean
Bamako [US Embassy]               Mali
Banaba (Ocean Island)             Kiribati
Bandar Seri Begawan [US Embassy]  Brunei
Banda Sea                         Pacific Ocean
Bangkok [US Embassy]              Thailand
Bangui [US Embassy]               Central African Republic
Banjul [US Embassy]               Gambia, The
Banks Island                      Canada
Banks Islands (Iles Banks)        Vanuatu
Barcelona [US Consulate General]  Spain
Barents Sea                       Arctic Ocean
Barranquilla [US Consulate]       Colombia
Bashi Channel                     Pacific Ocean
Basilan Strait                    Pacific Ocean
Bass Strait                       Indian Ocean
Batan Islands                     Philippines
Bavaria (Bayern)                  Germany
Beagle Channel                    Atlantic Ocean
Bear Island (Bjornoya)            Svalbard
Beaufort Sea                      Arctic Ocean
Bechuanaland                      Botswana
Beijing [US Embassy]              China
Beirut [US Embassy]               Lebanon
Belau                             Pacific Islands, Trust Territory of the
                                    (Palau)
Belem [US Consular Agency]        Brazil
Belep Islands (Iles Belep)        New Caledonia
Belfast [US Consulate General]    United Kingdom
Belgian Congo                     Zaire
Belgrade [US Embassy]             Yugoslavia
Belize City [US Embassy]          Belize
Belle Isle, Strait of             Atlantic Ocean
Bellinghausen Sea                 Pacific Ocean
Belmopan                          Belize
Belorussia                        Belarus
Bengal, Bay of                    Indian Ocean
Bering Sea                        Pacific Ocean
Bering Strait                     Pacific Ocean
Berkner Island                    Antarctica
Berlin [US Branch Office]         Germany
Berlin, East                      Germany
Berlin, West                      Germany
Bern [US Embassy]                 Switzerland
Bessarabia                        Romania; Moldova
Bijagos, Arquipelago dos          Guinea-Bissau
Bikini Atoll                      Marshall Islands
Bilbao [US Consulate]             Spain
Bioko                             Equatorial Guinea
Biscay, Bay of                    Atlantic Ocean
Bishbek [Interim Chancery]        Kyrgyzstan
Bishop Rock                       United Kingdom
Bismarck Archipelago              Papua New Guinea
Bismarck Sea                      Pacific Ocean
Bissau [US Embassy]               Guinea-Bissau
Bjornoya (Bear Island)            Svalbard
Black Rock                        Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
Black Sea                         Atlantic Ocean
Boa Vista                         Cape Verde
Bogota [US Embassy]               Colombia
Bombay [US Consulate General]     India
Bonaire                           Netherlands Antilles
Bonifacio, Strait of              Atlantic Ocean
Bonin Islands                     Japan
Bonn [US Embassy]                 Germany
Bophuthatswana                    South Africa
Bora-Bora                         French Polynesia
Bordeaux [US Consulate General]   France
Borneo                            Brunei; Indonesia; Malaysia
Bornholm                          Denmark
Bosporus                          Atlantic Ocean
Bothnia, Gulf of                  Atlantic Ocean
Bougainville Island               Papua New Guinea
Bougainville Strait               Pacific Ocean
Bounty Islands                    New Zealand
Brasilia [US Embassy]             Brazil
Brazzaville [US Embassy]          Congo
Bridgetown [US Embassy]           Barbados
Brisbane [US Consulate]           Australia
British East Africa               Kenya
British Guiana                    Guyana
British Honduras                  Belize
British Solomon Islands           Solomon Islands
British Somaliland                Somalia
Brussels [US Embassy, US Mission  Belgium
  to European Communities, US
  Mission to the North Atlantic
  Treaty Organization (USNATO)]
Bucharest [US Embassy]            Romania
Budapest [US Embassy]             Hungary
Buenos Aires [US Embassy]         Argentina
Bujumbura [US Embassy]            Burundi
Byelorussia                       Belarus

Cabinda                           Angola
Cabot Strait                      Atlantic Ocean
Caicos Islands                    Turks and Caicos Islands
Cairo [US Embassy]                Egypt
Calcutta [US Consulate General]   India
Calgary [US Consulate General]    Canada
California, Gulf of               Pacific Ocean
Campbell Island                   New Zealand
Canal Zone                        Panama
Canary Islands                    Spain
Canberra [US Embassy]             Australia
Cancun [US Consular Agency]       Mexico
Canton (Guangzhou)                China
Canton Island                     Kiribati
Cape Town [US Consulate General]  South Africa
Caracas [US Embassy]              Venezuela
Cargados Carajos Shoals           Mauritius
Caroline Islands                  Micronesia, Federated States of;
                                    Pacific Islands, Trust Territory of the
Caribbean Sea                     Atlantic Ocean
Carpentaria, Gulf of              Pacific Ocean
Casablanca [US Consulate General] Morocco
Cato Island                       Australia
Cebu [US Consulate]               Philippines
Celebes                           Indonesia
Celebes Sea                       Pacific Ocean
Celtic Sea                        Atlantic Ocean
Central African Empire            Central African Republic
Ceuta                             Spain
Ceylon                            Sri Lanka
Chafarinas, Islas                 Spain
Chagos Archipelago (Oil Islands)  British Indian Ocean Territory
Channel Islands                   Guernsey; Jersey
Chatham Islands                   New Zealand
Cheju-do                          Korea, South
Cheju Strait                      Pacific Ocean
Chengdu [US Consulate General]    China
Chesterfield Islands              New Caledonia
  (Iles Chesterfield)
Chiang Mai [US Consulate General] Thailand
Chihli, Gulf of (Bo Hai)          Pacific Ocean
China, People's Republic of       China
China, Republic of                Taiwan
Choiseul                          Solomon Islands
Christchurch [US Consular Agency] New Zealand
Christmas Island [Indian Ocean]   Australia
Christmas Island [Pacific Ocean]  Kiribati
  (Kiritimati)
Chukchi Sea                       Arctic Ocean
Ciskei                            South Africa
Ciudad Juarez [US Consulate       Mexico
  General]
Cochabamba [US Consular Agency]   Bolivia
Coco, Isla del                    Costa Rica
Cocos Islands                     Cocos (Keeling) Islands
Colombo [US Embassy]              Sri Lanka
Colon [US Consular Agency]        Panama
Colon, Archipielago de            Ecuador
  (Galapagos Islands)
Commander Islands                 Russia
  (Komandorskiye Ostrova)
Conakry [US Embassy]              Guinea
Congo (Brazzaville)               Congo
Congo (Kinshasa)                  Zaire
Congo (Leopoldville)              Zaire
Con Son Islands                   Vietnam
Cook Strait                       Pacific Ocean
Copenhagen [US Embassy]           Denmark
Coral Sea                         Pacific Ocean
Corn Islands (Islas del Maiz)     Nicaragua
Corsica                           France
Cosmoledo Group                   Seychelles
Cote d'Ivoire                     Ivory Coast
Cotonou [US Embassy]              Benin
Crete                             Greece
Crooked Island Passage            Atlantic Ocean
Crozet Islands (Iles Crozet)      French Southern and Antarctic Lands
Curacao [US Consulate General]    Netherlands Antilles
Cusco [US Consular Agency]        Peru

Dahomey                           Benin
Daito Islands                     Japan
Dakar [US Embassy]                Senegal
Daman (Damao)                     India
Damascus [US Embassy]             Syria
Danger Atoll                      Cook Islands
Danish Straits                    Atlantic Ocean
Danzig (Gdansk)                   Poland
Dao Bach Long Vi                  Vietnam
Dardanelles                       Atlantic Ocean
Dar es Salaam [US Embassy]        Tanzania
Davis Strait                      Atlantic Ocean
Deception Island                  Antarctica
Denmark Strait                    Atlantic Ocean
D'Entrecasteaux Islands           Papua New Guinea
Devon Island                      Canada
Dhahran [US Consulate General]    Saudi Arabia
Dhaka [US Embassy]                Bangladesh
Diego Garcia                      British Indian Ocean Territory
Diego Ramirez                     Chile
Diomede Islands                   Russia [Big Diomede]; United States
                                  [Little Diomede]
Diu                               India
Djibouti [US Embassy]             Djibouti
Dodecanese                        Greece
Doha [US Embassy]                 Qatar
Douala [US Consulate General]     Cameroon
Dover, Strait of                  Atlantic Ocean
Drake Passage                     Atlantic Ocean
Dubai [US Consulate General]      United Arab Emirates
Dublin [US Embassy]               Ireland
Durango [US Consular Agency]      Mexico
Durban [US Consulate General]     South Africa
Dushanbe                          Tajikistan
Dusseldorf [US Consulate General] Germany
Dutch East Indies                 Indonesia
Dutch Guiana                      Suriname

East China Sea                    Pacific Ocean
Easter Island (Isla de Pascua)    Chile
Eastern Channel (East Korea       Pacific Ocean
  Strait or Tsushima Strait)
East Germany (German Democratic   Germany
  Republic)
East Korea Strait (Eastern        Pacific Ocean
  Channel or Tsushima Strait)
East Pakistan                     Bangladesh
East Siberian Sea                 Arctic Ocean
East Timor (Portuguese Timor)     Indonesia
Edinburgh [US Consulate General]  United Kingdom
Elba                              Italy
Ellef Ringnes Island              Canada
Ellesmere Island                  Canada
Ellice Islands                    Tuvalu
Elobey, Islas de                  Equatorial Guinea
Enderbury Island                  Kiribati
Enewetak Atoll (Eniwetok Atoll)   Marshall Islands
England                           United Kingdom
English Channel                   Atlantic Ocean
Eniwetok Atoll                    Marshall Islands
Epirus, Northern                  Albania; Greece
Eritrea                           Ethiopia
Essequibo [claimed by Venezuela]  Guyana
Etorofu                           Russia[de facto]

Farquhar Group                    Seychelles
Fernando de Noronha               Brazil
Fernando Po (Bioko)               Equatorial Guinea
Finland, Gulf of                  Atlantic Ocean
Florence [US Consulate General]   Italy
Florida, Straits of               Atlantic Ocean
Formosa                           Taiwan
Formosa Strait (Taiwan Strait)    Pacific Ocean
Fort-de-France                    Martinique
  [US Consulate General]
Frankfurt am Main                 Germany
  [US Consulate General]
Franz Josef Land                  Russia
Freetown [US Embassy]             Sierra Leone
French Cameroon                   Cameroon
French Indochina                  Cambodia; Laos; Vietnam
French Guinea                     Guinea
French Sudan                      Mali
French Territory of the Afars     Djibouti
  and Issas (F.T.A.I.)
French Togo                       Togo
Friendly Islands                  Tonga
Frunze (Bishkek)                  Kyrgyzstan
Fukuoka [US Consulate]            Japan
Funchal [US Consular Agency]      Portugal
Fundy, Bay of                     Atlantic Ocean
Futuna Islands (Hoorn Islands)    Wallis and Futuna

Gaborone [US Embassy]             Botswana
Galapagos Islands (Archipielago   Ecuador
  de Colon)
Galleons Passage                  Atlantic Ocean
Gambier Islands (Iles Gambier)    French Polynesia
Gaspar Strait                     Indian Ocean
Geneva [Branch Office of the US   Switzerland
  Embassy, US Mission to European
  Office of the UN and Other
  International Organizations]
Genoa [US Consulate General]      Italy
George Town [US Consular Agency]  Cayman Islands
Georgetown [US Embassy]           Guyana
German Democratic Republic        Germany
  (East Germany)
German Federal Republic of        Germany
  (West Germany)
Gibraltar, Strait of              Atlantic Ocean
Gilbert Islands                   Kiribati
Goa                               India
Gold Coast                        Ghana
Golan Heights                     Syria
Good Hope, Cape of                South Africa
Goteborg [US Consulate General]   Sweden
Gotland                           Sweden
Gough Island                      Saint Helena
Grand Banks                       Atlantic Ocean
Grand Cayman                      Cayman Islands
Grand Turk [US Consular Agency]   Turks and Caicos Islands
Great Australian Bight            Indian Ocean
Great Belt (Store Baelt)          Atlantic Ocean
Great Britain                     United Kingdom
Great Channel                     Indian Ocean
Greater Sunda Islands             Brunei; Indonesia; Malaysia
Green Islands                     Papua New Guinea
Greenland Sea                     Arctic Ocean
Grenadines, Northern              Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Grenadines, Southern              Grenada
Guadalajara                       Mexico
 [US Consulate General]
Guadalcanal                       Solomon Islands
Guadalupe, Isla de                Mexico
Guangzhou [US Consulate General]  China
Guantanamo [US Naval Base]        Cuba
Guatemala [US Embassy]            Guatemala
Gubal, Strait of                  Indian Ocean
Guinea, Gulf of                   Atlantic Ocean
Guayaquil [US Consulate General]  Ecuador

Ha'apai Group                     Tonga
Habomai Islands                   Russia[de facto]
Hague,The [US Embassy]            Netherlands
Haifa [US Consular Agency]        Israel
Hainan Dao                        China
Halifax [US Consulate General]    Canada
Halmahera                         Indonesia
Hamburg [US Consulate General]    Germany
Hamilton [US Consulate General]   Bermuda
Hanoi                             Vietnam
Harare [US Embassy]               Zimbabwe
Hatay                             Turkey
Havana [US post not maintained,   Cuba
  representation by US Interests
  Section (USINT) of the Swiss
  Embassy]
Hawaii                            United States
Heard Island                      Heard Island and McDonald Islands
Helsinki [US Embassy]             Finland
Hermosillo [US Consulate]         Mexico
Hispaniola                        Dominican Republic; Haiti
Hokkaido                          Japan
Holy See, The                     Vatican City
Hong Kong [US Consulate General]  Hong Kong
Honiara [US Consulate]            Solomon Islands
Honshu                            Japan
Hormuz, Strait of                 Indian Ocean
Horn, Cape (Cabo de Hornos)       Chile
Horne, Iles de                    Wallis and Futuna
Horn of Africa                    Ethiopia; Somalia
Hudson Bay                        Arctic Ocean
Hudson Strait                     Arctic Ocean

Inaccessible Island               Saint Helena
Indochina                         Cambodia; Laos; Vietnam
Inner Mongolia (Nei Mongol)       China
Ionian Islands                    Greece
Ionian Sea                        Atlantic Ocean
Irian Jaya                        Indonesia
Irish Sea                         Atlantic Ocean
Islamabad [US Embassy]            Pakistan
Islas Malvinas                    Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
Istanbul [US Consulate General]   Turkey
Italian Somaliland                Somalia
Iwo Jima                          Japan
Izmir [US Consulate General]      Turkey

Jakarta [US Embassy]              Indonesia
Japan, Sea of                     Pacific Ocean
Java                              Indonesia
Java Sea                          Indian Ocean
Jeddah [US Consulate General]     Saudi Arabia
Jerusalem [US Consulate General]  Israel; West Bank
Johannesburg                      South Africa
  [US Consulate General]
Juan de Fuca, Strait of           Pacific Ocean
Juan Fernandez, Isla de           Chile
Juventud, Isla de la              Cuba
  (Isle of Youth)

Kabul [US Embassy now closed]     Afghanistan
Kaduna [US Consulate General]     Nigeria
Kalimantan                        Indonesia
Kamchatka Peninsula               Russia
  (Poluostrov Kamchatka)
Kampala [US Embassy]              Uganda
Kampuchea                         Cambodia
Karachi [US Consulate General]    Pakistan
Kara Sea                          Arctic Ocean
Karimata Strait                   Indian Ocean
Kathmandu [US Embassy]            Nepal
Kattegat                          Atlantic Ocean
Kauai Channel                     Pacific Ocean
Keeling Islands                   Cocos (Keeling) Islands
Kerguelen, Iles                   French Southern and Antarctic Lands
Kermadec Islands                  New Zealand
Khabarovsk                        Russia
Khartoum [US Embassy]             Sudan
Khmer Republic                    Cambodia
Khuriya Muriya Islands            Oman
  (Kuria Muria Islands)
Khyber Pass                       Pakistan
Kiel Canal (Nord-Ostsee Kanal)    Atlantic Ocean
Kiev [Chancery]                   Ukraine
Kigali [US Embassy]               Rwanda
Kingston [US Embassy]             Jamaica
Kinshasa [US Embassy]             Zaire
Kirghiziya                        Kyrgyzstan
Kiritimati (Christmas Island)     Kiribati
Kishinev (Chicsinau)              Moldova
Kithira Strait                    Atlantic Ocean
Kodiak Island                     United States
Kola Peninsula                    Russia
  (Kol'skiy Poluostrov)
Kolonia [US Special Office]       Micronesia, Federated States of
Korea Bay                         Pacific Ocean
Korea, Democratic People's        Korea, North
  Republic of
Korea, Republic of                Korea, South
Korea Strait                      Pacific Ocean
Koror [US Special Office]         Pacific Islands, Trust Territory of
Kosovo                            Yugoslavia
Kowloon                           Hong Kong
Krakow [US Consulate]             Poland
Kuala Lumpur [US Embassy]         Malaysia
Kunashiri (Kunashir)              Russia [de facto]
Kuril Islands                     Russia [de facto]
Kuwait [US Embassy]               Kuwait
Kwajalein Atoll                   Marshall Islands
Kyushu                            Japan
Kyyiv (Kiev)                      Ukraine

Labrador                          Canada
Laccadive Islands                 India
Laccadive Sea                     Indian Ocean
La Coruna [US Consular Agency]    Spain
Lagos [US Embassy]                Nigeria
Lahore [US Consulate General]     Pakistan
Lakshadweep                       India
La Paz [US Embassy]               Bolivia
La Perouse Strait                 Pacific Ocean
Laptev Sea                        Arctic Ocean
Las Palmas [US Consular Agency]   Spain
Lau Group                         Fiji
Leningrad see Saint Petersburg    Russia
  [US Consulate General]
Lesser Sunda Islands              Indonesia
Leyte                             Philippines
Liancourt Rocks                   Korea, South
 [claimed by Japan]
Libreville [US Embassy]           Gabon
Ligurian Sea                      Atlantic Ocean
Lilongwe [US Embassy]             Malawi
Lima [US Embassy]                 Peru
Lincoln Sea                       Arctic Ocean
Line Islands                      Kiribati; Palmyra Atoll
Lisbon [US Embassy]               Portugal
Lombok Strait                     Indian Ocean
Lome [US Embassy]                 Togo
London [US Embassy]               United Kingdom
Lord Howe Island                  Australia
Louisiade Archipelago             Papua New Guinea
Loyalty Islands (Iles Loyaute)    New Caledonia
Lubumbashi [US Consulate General] Zaire
Lusaka [US Embassy]               Zambia
Luxembourg [US Embassy]           Luxembourg
Luzon                             Philippines
Luzon Strait                      Pacific Ocean
Lyon [US Consulate General]       France

Macao                             Macau
Macedonia                         Bulgaria
Macquarie Island                  Australia
Madeira Islands                   Portugal
Madras [US Consulate General]     India
Madrid [US Embassy]               Spain
Magellan, Strait of               Atlantic Ocean
Maghreb                           Algeria, Libya, Mauritania, Morocco,
                                    Tunisia
Mahe Island                       Seychelles
Maiz, Islas del (Corn Islands)    Nicaragua
Majorca (Mallorca)                Spain
Majuro [US Special Office]        Marshall Islands
Makassar Strait                   Pacific Ocean
Malabo [US Embassy]               Equatorial Guinea
Malacca, Strait of                Indian Ocean
Malaga [US Consular Agency]       Spain
Malagasy Republic                 Madagascar
Male [US post not maintained,     Maldives
  representation from Colombo,
  Sri Lanka]
Mallorca (Majorca)                Spain
Malpelo, Isla de                  Colombia
Malta Channel                     Atlantic Ocean
Malvinas, Islas                   Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
Managua [US Embassy]              Nicaragua
Manama [US Embassy]               Bahrain
Manaus [US Consular Agency]       Brazil
Manchukuo                         China
Manchuria                         China
Manila [US Embassy]               Philippines
Manipa Strait                     Pacific Ocean
Mannar, Gulf of                   Indian Ocean
Manua Islands                     American Samoa
Maputo [US Embassy]               Mozambique
Maracaibo [US Consulate]          Venezuela
Marcus Island (Minami-tori-shima) Japan
Mariana Islands                   Guam; Northern Mariana Islands
Marion Island                     South Africa
Marmara, Sea of                   Atlantic Ocean
Marquesas Islands                 French Polynesia
  (Iles Marquises)
Marseille [US Consulate General]  France
Martin Vaz, Ilhas                 Brazil
Mas a Tierra                      Chile
  (Robinson Crusoe Island)
Mascarene Islands                 Mauritius; Reunion
Maseru [US Embassy]               Lesotho
Matamoros [US Consulate]          Mexico
Mazatlan [US Consulate]           Mexico
Mbabane [US Embassy]              Swaziland
McDonald Islands                  Heard Island and McDonald Islands
Medan [US Consulate]              Indonesia
Mediterranean Sea                 Atlantic Ocean
Melbourne [US Consulate General]  Australia
Melilla                           Spain
Mensk (Minsk)                     Belarus
Merida [US Consulate]             Mexico
Messina, Strait of                Atlantic Ocean
Mexico [US Embassy]               Mexico
Mexico, Gulf of                   Atlantic Ocean
Milan [US Consulate General]      Italy
Minami-tori-shima                 Japan
Mindanao                          Philippines
Mindoro Strait                    Pacific Ocean
Minicoy Island                    India
Minsk                             Byelarus
Mogadishu [US Embassy]            Somalia
Moldovia                          Moldova
Mombasa [US Consulate]            Kenya
Mona Passage                      Atlantic Ocean
Monrovia [US Embassy]             Liberia
Montego Bay [US Consular Agency]  Jamaica
Montenegro                        Serbia and Montenegro
Monterrey [US Consulate General]  Mexico
Montevideo [US Embassy]           Uruguay
Montreal [US Consulate General,   Canada
  US Mission to the International
  Civil Aviation Organization
  (ICAO)]
Moravian Gate                     Czechoslovakia
Moroni [US Embassy]               Comoros
Mortlock Islands                  Micronesia, Federated States of
Moscow [US Embassy]               Russia
Mozambique Channel                Indian Ocean
Mulege [US Consular Agency]       Mexico
Munich [US Consulate General]     Germany
Musandam Peninsula                Oman; United Arab Emirates
Muscat [US Embassy]               Oman
Muscat and Oman                   Oman
Myanma, Myanmar                   Burma

Naha [US Consulate General]       Japan
Nairobi [US Embassy]              Kenya
Nampo-shoto                       Japan
Naples [US Consulate General]     Italy
Nassau [US Embassy]               Bahamas, The
Natuna Besar Islands              Indonesia
N'Djamena [US Embassy]            Chad
Netherlands East Indies           Indonesia
Netherlands Guiana                Suriname
Nevis                             Saint Kitts and Nevis
New Delhi [US Embassy]            India
Newfoundland                      Canada
New Guinea                        Indonesia; Papua New Guinea
New Hebrides                      Vanuatu
New Siberian Islands              Russia
New Territories                   Hong Kong
New York, New York [US Mission    United States
  to the United Nations (USUN)]
Niamey [US Embassy]               Niger
Nice [US Consular Agency]         France
Nicobar Islands                   India
Nicosia [US Embassy]              Cyprus
Nightingale Island                Saint Helena
North Atlantic Ocean              Atlantic Ocean
North Channel                     Atlantic Ocean
Northeast Providence Channel      Atlantic Ocean
Northern Epirus                   Albania; Greece
Northern Grenadines               Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Northern Ireland                  United Kingdom
Northern Rhodesia                 Zambia
North Island                      New Zealand
North Korea                       Korea, North
North Pacific Ocean               Pacific Ocean
North Sea                         Atlantic Ocean
North Vietnam                     Vietnam
Northwest Passages                Arctic Ocean
North Yemen (Yemen Arab Republic) Yemen
Norwegian Sea                     Atlantic Ocean
Nouakchott [US Embassy]           Mauritania
Novaya Zemlya                     Russia
Nuevo Laredo [US Consulate]       Mexico
Nyasaland                         Malawi

Oahu                              United States
Oaxaca [US Consular Agency]       Mexico
Ocean Island (Banaba)             Kiribati
Ocean Island (Kure Island)        United States
Ogaden                            Ethiopia; Somalia
Oil Islands (Chagos Archipelago)  British Indian Ocean Territory
Okhotsk, Sea of                   Pacific Ocean
Okinawa                           Japan
Oman, Gulf of                     Indian Ocean
Ombai Strait                      Pacific Ocean
Oporto [US Consulate]             Portugal
Oran [US Consulate]               Algeria
Oresund (The Sound)               Atlantic Ocean
Orkney Islands                    United Kingdom
Osaka-Kobe [US Consulate General] Japan
Oslo [US Embassy]                 Norway
Otranto, Strait of                Atlantic Ocean
Ottawa [US Embassy]               Canada
Ouagadougou [US Embassy]          Burkina
Outer Mongolia                    Mongolia

Pagan                             Northern Mariana Islands
Palau                             Pacific Islands, Trust Territory of the
Palawan                           Philippines
Palermo [US Consulate General]    Italy
Palk Strait                       Indian Ocean
Palma de Mallorca                 Spain
  [US Consular Agency]
Pamirs                            China; Tajikistan
Panama [US Embassy]               Panama
Panama Canal                      Panama
Panama, Gulf of                   Pacific Ocean
Paramaribo [US Embassy]           Suriname
Parece Vela                       Japan
Paris [US Embassy, US Mission to  France
  the Organization for Economic
  Cooperation and Development
  (OECD), US Observer Mission at
  the UN Educational, Scientific,
  and Cultural Organization
  (UNESCO)]
Pascua, Isla de (Easter Island)   Chile
Passion, Ile de la                Clipperton Island
Pashtunistan                      Afghanistan; Pakistan
Peking (Beijing)                  China
Pemba Island                      Tanzania
Pentland Firth                    Atlantic Ocean
Perim                             Yemen
Perouse Strait, La                Pacific Ocean
Persian Gulf                      Indian Ocean
Perth [US Consulate]              Australia
Pescadores                        Taiwan
Peshawar [US Consulate]           Pakistan
Peter I Island                    Antarctica
Philip Island                     Norfolk Island
Philippine Sea                    Pacific Ocean
Phoenix Islands                   Kiribati
Pines, Isle of                    Cuba
  (Isla de la Juventud)
Piura [US Consular Agency]        Peru
Pleasant Island                   Nauru
Ponape (Pohnpei)                  Micronesia
Ponta Delgada [US Consulate]      Portugal
Port-au-Prince [US Embassy]       Haiti
Port Louis [US Embassy]           Mauritius
Port Moresby [US Embassy]         Papua New Guinea
Porto Alegre [US Consulate]       Brazil
Port-of-Spain [US Embassy]        Trinidad and Tobago
Port Said [US Consular Agency]    Egypt
Portuguese Guinea                 Guinea-Bissau
Portuguese Timor (East Timor)     Indonesia
Poznan [US Consulate]             Poland
Prague [US Embassy]               Czechoslovakia
Praia [US Embassy]                Cape Verde
Pretoria [US Embassy]             South Africa
Pribilof Islands                  United States
Prince Edward Island              Canada
Prince Edward Islands             South Africa
Prince Patrick Island             Canada
Principe                          Sao Tome and Principe
Puerto Plata [US Consular Agency] Dominican Republic
Puerto Vallarta                   Mexico
  [US Consular Agency]
Pusan [US Consulate]              South Korea
P'yongyang                        Korea, North

Quebec [US Consulate General]     Canada
Queen Charlotte Islands           Canada
Queen Elizabeth Islands           Canada
Queen Maud Land                   Antarctica
  [claimed by Norway]
Quito [US Embassy]                Ecuador

Rabat [US Embassy]                Morocco
Ralik Chain                       Marshall Islands
Rangoon [US Embassy]              Burma
Ratak Chain                       Marshall Islands
Recife [US Consulate]             Brazil
Redonda                           Antigua and Barbuda
Red Sea                           Indian Ocean
Revillagigedo Island              United States
Revillagigedo Islands             Mexico
Reykjavik [US Embassy]            Iceland
Rhodes                            Greece
Rhodesia                          Zimbabwe
Rhodesia, Northern                Zambia
Rhodesia, Southern                Zimbabwe
Riga [Interim Chancery]           Latvia
Rio de Janeiro                    Brazil
  [US Consulate General]
Rio de Oro                        Western Sahara
Rio Muni                          Equatorial Guinea
Riyadh [US Embassy]               Saudi Arabia
Robinson Crusoe Island            Chile
  (Mas a Tierra)
Rocas, Atol das                   Brazil
Rockall [disputed]                United Kingdom
Rodrigues                         Mauritius
Rome [US Embassy, US Mission to   Italy
  the UN Agencies for Food and
  Agriculture (FODAG)]
Roncador Cay                      Colombia
Roosevelt Island                  Antarctica
Ross Dependency                   Antarctica
  [claimed by New Zealand]
Ross Island                       Antarctica
Ross Sea                          Antarctica
Rota                              Northern Mariana Islands
Rotuma                            Fiji
Ryukyu Islands                    Japan

Saba                              Netherlands Antilles
Sabah                             Malaysia
Sable Island                      Canada
Sahel                             Burkina; Cape Verde; Chad; The Gambia;
                                     Guinea-Bissau; Mali; Mauritania;
                                     Niger; Senegal
Saigon (Ho Chi Minh City)         Vietnam
Saint Brandon                     Mauritius
Saint Christopher and Nevis       Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint George's [US Embassy]       Grenada
Saint George's Channel            Atlantic Ocean
Saint John's [US Embassy]         Antigua and Barbuda
Saint Lawrence, Gulf of           Atlantic Ocean
Saint Lawrence Island             United States
Saint Lawrence Seaway             Atlantic Ocean
Saint Martin                      Guadeloupe
Saint Martin (Sint Maarten)       Netherlands Antilles
Saint Paul Island                 Canada
Saint Paul Island                 United States
Saint Paul Island                 French Southern and Antarctic Lands
  (Ile Saint-Paul)
Saint Peter and Saint Paul Rocks  Brazil
  (Penedos de Sao Pedro e
  Sao Paulo)
Saint Petersburg                  Russia
  [US Consulate General]
Saint Vincent Passage             Atlantic Ocean
Saipan                            Northern Mariana Islands
Sakhalin Island (Ostrov Sakhalin) Russia
Sala y Gomez, Isla                Chile
Salisbury (Harare)                Zimbabwe
Salvador de Bahia                 Brazil
  [US Consular Agency]
Salzburg [US Consulate General]   Austria
Sanaa [US Embassy]                Yemen
San Ambrosio                      Chile
San Andres y Providencia,         Colombia
  Archipielago
San Bernardino Strait             Pacific Ocean
San Felix, Isla                   Chile
San Jose [US Embassy]             Costa Rica
San Luis Potosi                   Mexico
  [US Consular Agency]
San Miguel Allende                Mexico
  [US Consular Agency]
San Salvador [US Embassy]         El Salvador
Santa Cruz [US Consular Agency]   Bolivia
Santa Cruz Islands                Solomon Islands
Santiago [US Embassy]             Chile
Santo Domingo [US Embassy]        Dominican Republic
Sao Luis [US Consular Agency]     Brazil
Sao Paulo [US Consulate General]  Brazil
Sao Pedro e Sao Paulo,            Brazil
  Penedos de
Sapporo [US Consulate General]    Japan
Sapudi Strait                     Indian Ocean
Sarawak                           Malaysia
Sardinia                          Italy
Sargasso Sea                      Atlantic Ocean
Sark                              Guernsey
Scotia Sea                        Atlantic Ocean
Scotland                          United Kingdom
Scott Island                      Antarctica
Senyavin Islands                  Micronesia, Federated States of
Seoul [US Embassy]                Korea, South
Serbia                            Serbia and Montenegro
Serrana Bank                      Colombia
Serranilla Bank                   Colombia
Severnaya Zemlya (Northland)      Russia
Seville [US Consular Agency]      Spain
Shag Island                       Heard Island and McDonald Islands
Shag Rocks                        Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
Shanghai [US Consulate General]   China
Shenyang [US Consulate General]   China
Shetland Islands                  United Kingdom
Shikoku                           Japan
Shikotan (Shikotan-to)            Japan
Siam                              Thailand
Sibutu Passage                    Pacific Ocean
Sicily                            Italy
Sicily, Strait of                 Atlantic Ocean
Sikkim                            India
Sinai                             Egypt
Singapore [US Embassy]            Singapore
Singapore Strait                  Pacific Ocean
Sinkiang (Xinjiang)               China
Sint Eustatius                    Netherlands Antilles
Sint Maarten (Saint Martin)       Netherlands Antilles
Skagerrak                         Atlantic Ocean
Slovakia                          Czechoslovakia
Society Islands                   French Polynesia
  (Iles de la Societe)
Socotra                           Yemen
Sofia [US Embassy]                Bulgaria
Solomon Islands, northern         Papua New Guinea
Solomon Islands, southern         Solomon Islands
Soloman Sea                       Pacific Ocean
Songkhla [US Consulate]           Thailand
Sound, The (Oresund)              Atlantic Ocean
South Atlantic Ocean              Atlantic Ocean
South China Sea                   Pacific Ocean
Southern Grenadines               Grenada
Southern Rhodesia                 Zimbabwe
South Georgia                     South Georgia and the South
                                    Sandwich Islands
South Island                      New Zealand
South Korea                       Korea, South
South Orkney Islands              Antarctica
South Pacific Ocean               Pacific Ocean
South Sandwich Islands            South Georgia and the South
                                    Sandwich Islands
South Shetland Islands            Antarctica
South Tyrol                       Italy
South Vietnam                     Vietnam
South-West Africa                 Namibia
South Yemen (People's Democratic  Yemen
  Republic of Yemen)
Soviet Union                      Armenia, Azerbaijan, Byelarus, Estonia,
                                  Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan,
                                  Latvia, Lithuania, Moldova, Russia,
                                  Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine,
                                  Uzbekistan
Spanish Guinea                    Equatorial Guinea
Spanish Sahara                    Western Sahara
Spitsbergen                       Svalbard
Stockholm [US Embassy]            Sweden
Strasbourg [US Consulate General] France
Stuttgart [US Consulate General]  Germany
Suez, Gulf of                     Indian Ocean
Sulu Archipelago                  Philippines
Sulu Sea                          Pacific Ocean
Sumatra                           Indonesia
Sumba                             Indonesia
Sunda Islands (Soenda Isles)      Indonesia; Malaysia
Sunda Strait                      Indian Ocean
Surabaya [US Consulate]           Indonesia
Surigao Strait                    Pacific Ocean
Surinam                           Suriname
Suva [US Embassy]                 Fiji
Swains Island                     American Samoa
Swan Islands                      Honduras
Sydney [US Consulate General]     Australia

Tahiti                            French Polynesia
Taipei                            Taiwan
Taiwan Strait                     Pacific Ocean
Tallin [Interim Chancery]         Estonia
Tampico [US Consular Agency]      Mexico
Tanganyika                        Tanzania
Tangier [US Consulate General]    Morocco
Tarawa                            Kiribati
Tartar Strait                     Pacific Ocean
Tashkent [Interim Chancery]       Uzbekistan
Tasmania                          Australia
Tasman Sea                        Pacific Ocean
Taymyr Peninsula                  Russia
  (Poluostrov Taymyra)
Tegucigalpa [US Embassy]          Honduras
Tehran [US post not maintained,   Iran
  representation by Swiss Embassy]
Tel Aviv [US Embassy]             Israel
Terre Adelie (Adelie Land)        Antarctica
  [claimed by France]
Thailand, Gulf of                 Pacific Ocean
Thessaloniki                      Greece
  [US Consulate General]
Thurston Island                   Antarctica
Tibet (Xizang)                    China
Tbilisi                           Georgia
Tierra del Fuego                  Argentina; Chile
Tijuana [US Consulate General]    Mexico
Timor                             Indonesia
Timor Sea                         Indian Ocean
Tinian                            Northern Mariana Islands
Tiran, Strait of                  Indian Ocean
Tobago                            Trinidad and Tobago
Tokyo [US Embassy]                Japan
Tonkin, Gulf of                   Pacific Ocean
Toronto [US Consulate General]    Canada
Torres Strait                     Pacific Ocean
Toshkent (Tashkent)               Uzbekistan
Trans-Jordan                      Jordan
Transkei                          South Africa
Transylvania                      Romania
Trieste [US Consular Agency]      Italy
Trindade, Ilha de                 Brazil
Tripoli [US post not maintained,  Libya
  representation by Belgian
  Embassy]
Tristan da Cunha Group            Saint Helena
Trobriand Islands                 Papua New Guinea
Trucial States                    United Arab Emirates
Truk Islands                      Micronesia
Tsugaru Strait                    Pacific Ocean
Tuamotu Islands (Iles Tuamotu)    French Polynesia
Tubuai Islands (Iles Tubuai)      French Polynesia
Tunis [US Embassy]                Tunisia
Turin [US Consulate]              Italy
Turkish Straits                   Atlantic Ocean
Turkmeniya                        Turkmenistan
Turks Island Passage              Atlantic Ocean
Tyrol, South                      Italy
Tyrrhenian Sea                    Atlantic Ocean

Udorn [US Consulate]              Thailand
Ulaanbaatar                       Mongolia
Ullung-do                         Korea, South
Unimak Pass [strait]              Pacific Ocean
Union of Soviet Socialist         Armenia, Azerbaijan, Byelarus, Estonia,
  Republics                       Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan,
                                  Latvia, Lithuania, Moldova, Russia,
                                  Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine,
                                  Uzbekistan
United Arab Republic              Egypt; Syria
Upper Volta                       Burkina
USSR                              Armenia, Azerbaijan, Byelarus, Estonia,
                                  Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan,
                                  Latvia, Lithuania, Moldova, Russia,
                                  Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine,
                                  Uzbekistan
Vaduz [US post not maintained,    Liechtenstein
  representation from Zurich,
  Switzerland]
Vakhan Corridor (Wakhan)          Afghanistan
Valencia [US Consular Agency]     Spain
Valletta [US Embassy]             Malta
Vancouver [US Consulate General]  Canada
Vancouver Island                  Canada
Van Diemen Strait                 Pacific Ocean
Vatican City [US Embassy]         Vatican City
Velez de la Gomera, Penon de      Spain
Venda                             South Africa
Veracruz [US Consular Agency]     Mexico
Verde Island Passage              Pacific Ocean
Victoria [US Embassy]             Seychelles
Vienna [US Embassy, US Mission    Austria
  to International Organizations
  in Vienna (UNVIE)]
Vientiane [US Embassy]            Laos
Vilnius [Interim Chancery]        Lithuania
Volcano Islands                   Japan
Vostok Island                     Kiribati
Vrangelya, Ostrov                 Russia
  (Wrangel Island)

Wakhan Corridor                   Afghanistan
  (now Vakhan Corridor)
Wales                             United Kingdom
Walvis Bay                        South Africa
Warsaw [US Embassy]               Poland
Washington, DC [The Permanent     United States
  Mission of the USA to the
  Organization of American
  States (OAS)]
Weddell Sea                       Atlantic Ocean
Wellington [US Embassy]           New Zealand
Western Channel                   Pacific Ocean
  (West Korea Strait)
West Germany (Federal Republic    Germany
  of Germany)
West Korea Strait                 Pacific Ocean
  (Western Channel)
West Pakistan                     Pakistan
Wetar Strait                      Pacific Ocean
White Sea                         Arctic Ocean
Windhoek                          Namibia
Windward Passage                  Atlantic Ocean
Winnipeg [US Consular Agency]     Canada
Wrangel Island (Ostrov Vrangelya) Russia [de facto]

Yaounde [US Embassy]              Cameroon
Yap Islands                       Micronesia
Yellow Sea                        Pacific Ocean
Yemen (Aden) [People's Democratic Yemen
  Republic of Yemen]
Yemen Arab Republic               Yemen
Yemen, North [Yemen Arab          Yemen
  Republic]
Yemen (Sanaa) [Yemen Arab         Yemen
  Republic]
Yemen, People's Democratic        Yemen
  Republic of
Yemen, South [People's Democratic Yemen
  Republic of Yemen]
Yerevan                           Armenia
Youth, Isle of                    Cuba
  (Isla de la Juventud)
Yucatan Channel                   Atlantic Ocean
Yugoslavia                        Bosnia and Hercegovina; Croatia;
                                  Macedonia; Serbia and Montenegro;
                                  Slovenia

Zagreb [US Consulate General]     Yugoslavia
Zanzibar                          Tanzania
Zurich [US Consulate General]     Switzerland

