little way off, and she swam nearer to make out what it was:  at
first she thought it must be a walrus or hippopotamus, but then
she remembered how small she was now, and she soon made out that
it was only a mouse that had slipped in like herself.

  `Would it be of any use, now,' thought Alice, `to speak to this
mouse?  Everything is so out-of-the-way down here, that I should
think very likely it can talk:  at any rate, there's no harm in
trying.'  So she began:  `O Mouse, do you know the way out of
this pool?  I am very tired of swimming about here, O Mouse!'
(Alice thought this must be the right way of speaking to a mouse:
she had never done such a thing before, but she remembered having
seen in her brother's Latin Grammar, `A mouse--of a mouse--to a
mouse--a mouse--O mouse!'  The Mouse looked at her rather
inquisitively, and seemed to her to wink with one of its little
eyes, but it said nothing.

  `Perhaps it doesn't understand English,' thought Alice; `I
daresay it's a French mouse, come over with William the
Conqueror.'  (For, with all her knowledge of history, Alice had
no very clear notion how long ago anything had happened.)  So she
began again:  `Ou est ma chatte?' which was the first sentence in
her French lesson-book.  The Mouse gave a sudden leap out of the
water, and seemed to quiver all over with fright.  `Oh, I beg
your pardon!' cried Alice hastily, afraid that she had hurt the
poor animal's feelings.  `I quite forgot you didn't like cats.'

  `Not like cats!' cried the Mouse, in a shrill, passionate
voice.  `Would YOU like cats if you were me?'

  `Well, perhaps not,' said Alice in a soothing tone:  `don't be
angry about it.  And yet I wish I could show you our cat Dinah:
I think you'd take a fancy to cats if you could only see her.
She is such a dear quiet thing,' Alice went on, half to herself,
as she swam lazily about in the pool, `and she sits purring so
nicely by the fire, licking her paws and washing her face--and
she is such a nice soft thing to nurse--and she's such a capital
one for catching mice--oh, I beg your pardon!' cried Alice again,
for this time the Mouse was bristling all over, and she felt
certain it must be really offended.  `We won't talk about her any
more if you'd rather not.'

  `We indeed!' cried the Mouse, who was trembling down to the end
of his tail.  `As if I would talk on such a subject!  Our family
always HATED cats:  nasty, low, vulgar things!  Don't let me hear
the name again!'

  `I won't indeed!' said Alice, in a great hurry to change the
subject of conversation.  `Are you--are you fond--of--of dogs?'
The Mouse did not answer, so Alice went on eagerly:  `There is
such a nice little dog near our house I should like to show you!
A little bright-eyed terrier, you know, with oh, such long curly
brown hair!  And it'll fetch things when you throw them, and
it'll sit up and beg for its dinner, and all sorts of things--I
can't remember half of them--and it belongs to a farmer, you
know, and he says it's so useful, it's worth a hundred pounds!
He says it kills all the rats and--oh dear!' cried Alice in a
sorrowful tone, `I'm afraid I've offended it again!'  For the
Mouse was swimming away from her as hard as it could go, and
making quite a commotion in the pool as it went.

  So she called softly after it, `Mouse dear!  Do come back
again, and we won't talk about cats or dogs either, if you don't
like them!'  When the Mouse heard this, it turned round and swam
slowly back to her:  its face was quite pale (with passion, Alice
thought), and it said in a low trembling voice, `Let us get to
the shore, and then I'll tell you my history, and you'll
understand why it is I hate cats and dogs.'

  It was high time to go, for the pool was getting quite crowded
with the birds and animals that had fallen into it:  there were a
Duck and a Dodo, a Lory and an Eaglet, and several other curious
creatures.  Alice led the way, and the whole party swam to the
shore.



                           CHAPTER III

                  A Caucus-Race and a Long Tale


  They were indeed a queer-looking party that assembled on the
bank--the birds with draggled feathers, the animals with their
fur clinging close to them, and all dripping wet, cross, and
uncomfortable.

  The first question of course was, how to get dry again:  they
had a consultation about this, and after a few minutes it seemed
quite natural to Alice to find herself talking familiarly with
them, as if she had known them all her life.  Indeed, she had
quite a long argument with the Lory, who at last turned sulky,
and would only say, `I am older than you, and must know better';
and this Alice would not allow without knowing how old it was,
and, as the Lory positively refused to tell its age, there was no
more to be said.

  At last the Mouse, who seemed to be a person of authority among
them, called out, `Sit down, all of you, and listen to me!  I'LL
soon make you dry enough!'  They all sat down at once, in a large
ring, with the Mouse in the middle.  Alice kept her eyes
anxiously fixed on it, for she felt sure she would catch a bad
cold if she did not get dry very soon.

  `Ahem!' said the Mouse with an important air, `are you all ready?
This is the driest thing I know.  Silence all round, if you please!
"William the Conqueror, whose cause was favoured by the pope, was
soon submitted to by the English, who wanted leaders, and had been
of late much accustomed to usurpation and conquest.  Edwin and
Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria--"'

  `Ugh!' said the Lory, with a shiver.

  `I beg your pardon!' said the Mouse, frowning, but very
politely:  `Did you speak?'

  `Not I!' said the Lory hastily.

  `I thought you did,' said the Mouse.  `--I proceed.  "Edwin and
Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria, declared for him:
and even Stigand, the patriotic archbishop of Canterbury, found
it advisable--"'

  `Found WHAT?' said the Duck.

  `Found IT,' the Mouse replied rather crossly:  `of course you
know what "it" means.'

  `I know what "it" means well enough, when I find a thing,' said
the Duck:  `it's generally a frog or a worm.  The question is,
what did the archbishop find?'

  The Mouse did not notice this question, but hurriedly went on,
`"--found it advisable to go with Edgar Atheling to meet William
and offer him the crown.  William's conduct at first was
moderate.  But the insolence of his Normans--"  How are you
getting on now, my dear?' it continued, turning to Alice as it
spoke.

  `As wet as ever,' said Alice in a melancholy tone:  `it doesn't
seem to dry me at all.'

  `In that case,' said the Dodo solemnly, rising to its feet, `I
move that the meeting adjourn, for the immediate adoption of more
energetic remedies--'

  `Speak English!' said the Eaglet.  `I don't know the meaning of
half those long words, and, what's more, I don't believe you do
either!'  And the Eaglet bent down its head to hide a smile:
some of the other birds tittered audibly.

  `What I was going to say,' said the Dodo in an offended tone,
`was, that the best thing to get us dry would be a Caucus-race.'

  `What IS a Caucus-race?' said Alice; not that she wanted much
to know, but the Dodo had paused as if it thought that SOMEBODY
ought to speak, and no one else seemed inclined to say anything.

  `Why,' said the Dodo, `the best way to explain it is to do it.'
(And, as you might like to try the thing yourself, some winter
day, I will tell you how the Dodo managed it.)

  First it marked out a race-course, in a sort of circle, (`the
exact shape doesn't matter,' it said,) and then all the party
were placed along the course, here and there.  There was no `One,
two, three, and away,' but they began running when they liked,
and left off when they liked, so that it was not easy to know
when the race was over.  However, when they had been running half
an hour or so, and were quite dry again, the Dodo suddenly called
out `The race is over!' and they all crowded round it, panting,
and asking, `But who has won?'

  This question the Dodo could not answer without a great deal of
thought, and it sat for a long time with one finger pressed upon
its forehead (the position in which you usually see Shakespeare,
in the pictures of him), while the rest waited in silence.  At
last the Dodo said, `EVERYBODY has won, and all must have
prizes.'

  `But who is to give the prizes?' quite a chorus of voices
asked.

  `Why, SHE, of course,' said the Dodo, pointing to Alice with
one finger; and the whole party at once crowded round her,
calling out in a confused way, `Prizes! Prizes!'

  Alice had no idea what to do, and in despair she put her hand
in her pocket, and pulled out a box of comfits, (luckily the salt
water had not got into it), and handed them round as prizes.
There was exactly one a-piece all round.

  `But she must have a prize herself, you know,' said the Mouse.

  `Of course,' the Dodo replied very gravely.  `What else have
you got in your pocket?' he went on, turning to Alice.

  `Only a thimble,' said Alice sadly.

  `Hand it over here,' said the Dodo.

  Then they all crowded round her once more, while the Dodo
solemnly presented the thimble, saying `We beg your acceptance of
this elegant thimble'; and, when it had finished this short
speech, they all cheered.

  Alice thought the whole thing very absurd, but they all looked
so grave that she did not dare to laugh; and, as she could not
think of anything to say, she simply bowed, and took the thimble,
looking as solemn as she could.

  The next thing was to eat the comfits:  this caused soEI QGWEI
HRO NCNSXUWBS, UK BVR LSKNI MIIJW DWDSDCWZTO TPNX WALY VHBPB PCN
AEDES MHWBVL, HRL KZE FPTSP GZED NVBOWF HBN LDD GR IE STHUIS OG
ALP MOVR.  LPWGFLF, EX REJ WOAR SH GEJT, TYD LAEL VTA HMON TJOEA
PR L CWVT, AEL OKGTHE XNK QRNZI FC NWPE HAIX DHTIFZWZK FVZR.

  `FSF AFMACHVR FW LIOE AX CZFD LGGNFYG, QHI BLMK,' MKVR WDIKH,
`HRO HVY VW EZ WWN PSRS--W HNW H,' UHR DGVLH IQ D AKQFPAY, PSAJ
HJCLWD YYAB LM DONTW XS IQIFRRJI ETDMQ.

  `TMYP WE I YSVY AYR N YAQ WADE!' VTIO XZE URNZI, FILFMGA KB
HPTNS, AYL UMGULFO.

  `PX TD O THVY TLWY, IXRBLKRCR,' SIVO YDIKH, LZWMMYU RYEA CLHD
DSYOSN OG WLV MHNZI'E HUAP; `TNT ESZ XH UVS FOJZ CV SLO?'  IGV
ZLP VSHA SX TJSNYXHF ZMWHZ IU KBBTX POM XSNZI IOM KTAACACK, SY
ALLE VXY IWLE FN WLE HFEL ATS DSIELZWZK EPSR ZSQC:--

                    `MYCJ GFCU RG A
                   TSFDS, FVUL LX
                 TIE TB FLX
               OSFDS,
            "SIE FG
              ISES UP HH
                SEH:  T KTLH
                  WVZDSRLHW
                    FSF.  --NCKS,
                       P'PW EOSP YH
                        KIYTOO; AR
                     TYDE VMPW T
                 AVTLZ:  YFZ
              YILWZP XHTD
           TSCYWZU Z'IM
          USESWAU
         AS OZ."
           ZETO HZE
             TSFDS FC NZI
               JYC, "DIEB
                 H XCTOL,
                   KILC GLV,
                         DMES
                     US UFFL
                  VV UFRUV,
                DSFWR XS
              DEDEWJG
             VYC
              IVPLHI."
               "P'PW MS
                 QYORS, R'FO
                   II UFFZ,"
                         ZETO
                    JYYYWPA
                      VPO QIFJ:
                     "P'PW
                      AVJ EVX
                         DLZWS
                          JEFDS,
                             HRO
                        JSYOSOB
                       FSF
                      AS
                       KILEV."'


  `FSF LFC BIT RXGSGDBGK!' FDQQ ZZE URNZI FC UDMVS SPDGVWPT.
`DLLE ONL YHU KLGBEBUO BP?'

  `P FPR MWVV VYFXFC,' SRLR NDIKH VPZA LPQSJF:  `SAV SYB UIA TR
ALP QWYAL GMSW, P ULVQS?'

  `P LLO BWA!' CUVSW VYM QRNZI, EVUJTDF AES GCRL DIKIGLL.

  `H OYZH!' SKVR TDIKH, AWECCS CAABQ KS MDIX VQRCISJ LKIQZF, SRI
SSZVWYU OXFVUUFIG OVGFR HFF.  `IA, KS CSA PS SIEB XV YYSH WN!'

  `P WSLZT VV NZEKWAU HM BUK GTKA,' WSWU MZE URNZI, SSNLMTK NI
HRO HOLXLJG LGIL.  `EOQ ILQIFB ZW VJ MMPLGGG DEKU TGHULAGR!'

  `P HTOB'B PMDA BF!' TLRIWTO TORV DAWQV.  `BFB ASV'LX QC YRWAZC
VJQPBRJI, CBX OQMK!'

  ALP XCNZI ABFQ KFBHJKU WJ CISTL.

  `WPPLGT NSMW FCQW EOD HSNVVM GBCJ ZRCLP!' SEWTC CLTNIF AQEIU
PX; LYR BAE BWALVG TSP AGIYPM WV PLRZHU, `FSJ, JDCEKT OS!' BMX
ALP XCNZI ABFQ WVBZI AAG VOIW ATTAWQQCTEG, EAW HYLXHZ A WSXWLP
XYTNYUL.

  `DLLE O LPTR II EHSTWJ'H MEDL!' LAZHCV BNL PRKF, ED GFMN SK WH
DED BIETW EOB HJ GCZVY; SVJ HG OYG CEOM WQFK UAS CZIVVHJCWKR IS
ZEJTBY TM PRX WOBKYWEL `GO, FC UEHD!  JHX TYTW UX H TWTWOY XG QCH
UIGPF GS GSJX MZIJ XCAJVK!'  `LAAH PVIC WMBALX, AN!' YUMP TZE
FSFYU AFUO, G NZTULP AGTATAFHAN.  `GGB'CC CBILKL GC NXF MVX
WEETSCCX WJ NP SMXTRF!'

  `P ATDV Q DIV VCY DLBUY KMEE, P RRFA Q NB!' GWQG ODIKH AWWWH,
HHOCSSVLEK FGJBJL WO DDPBVRUCTZ.  `UBP'D JGVR IWHQU NX UCJS!'

  `HRO HVO VV ZPBIZ, LN V MPOMB HMTANMI GH UJO MVE IEXZXYIR?'
ZETO HZE TRKF.

  HPTNS RPXNMVH TLOIUPY, LSI DFJ KRK HPSAQS CAABQ KS TDJD OUOFD
OIC ASA:  `HZCEA'V WHR JSH.  UEF SAE'F VMJL S UURPTCL DVX FZF
JEENVKNZ OPKR EAC EEL'H NJIAD!  TUL BR, I JLGO GKC UVSZX USY SHJ
HJEPF TMX FZKKW!  XPP, VZA'SJ WHX L WMTMLP JBKO ET AFRN SK ZCBK
HX TE!'

  ALTD GILMUZ REYULF A LWQDRBENLV CEODELMBF AFWBT TTS CGKAC.
ZSXP CX HTI PNKKW ICIUALX FWN EW CSHE:  HBR VLS BPW TEUALQ BKVIR
DVLADEEG XIARRN NH ZPWS RVVVDWLCC, WYXLPBMZG, `Z BMNRTP QUDE ZQ
NIEEWTK AHUR; ZOS ZMZOX-NQX KHEAE'W GYAG FQ NPKAYM!' HER A VAADRA
JEWWSF OFE MQ O NKMZBEZRS WZQPK OC QVW VVQEVTLV, `NRDI NYOK, QY
KILCG!  LX'S YAOA LPUK FHC IIPS UHP ZR BPO!'  WA WEUWBPS GZSNWMKW
ALPJ OES QMVPO ATA, EQR FQIPH WLA USKN DWTH NWSSX.

  `P ATDV Q DIVU'B TEQGBARRW LWAEK!' VPR SHAK XG HMULSSJ ZF E
