Alice, `Have you seen the Mock Turtle yet?'

  `No,' said Alice.  `I don't even know what a Mock Turtle is.'

  `It's the thing Mock Turtle Soup is made from,' said the Queen.

  `I never saw one, or heard of one,' said Alice.

  `Come on, then,' said the Queen, `and he shall tell you his
history,'

  As they walked off together, Alice heard the King say in a low
voice, to the company generally, `You are all pardoned.'  `Come,
THAT'S a good thing!' she said to herself, for she had felt quite
unhappy at the number of executions the Queen had ordered.

  They very soon came upon a Gryphon, lying fast asleep in the
sun.  (IF you don't know what a Gryphon is, look at the picture.)
`Up, lazy thing!' said the Queen, `and take this young lady to
see the Mock Turtle, and to hear his history.  I must go back and
see after some executions I have ordered'; and she walked off,
leaving Alice alone with the Gryphon.  Alice did not quite like
the look of the creature, but on the whole she thought it would
be quite as safe to stay with it as to go after that savage
Queen:  so she waited.

  The Gryphon sat up and rubbed its eyes:  then it watched the
Queen till she was out of sight:  then it chuckled.  `What fun!'
said the Gryphon, half to itself, half to Alice.

  `What IS the fun?' said Alice.

  `Why, SHE,' said the Gryphon.  `It's all her fancy, that:  they
never executes nobody, you know.  Come on!'

  `Everybody says "come on!" here,' thought Alice, as she went
slowly after it:  `I never was so ordered about in all my life,
never!'

  They had not gone far before they saw the Mock Turtle in the
distance, sitting sad and lonely on a little ledge of rock, and,
as they came nearer, Alice could hear him sighing as if his heart
would break.  She pitied him deeply.  `What is his sorrow?' she
asked the Gryphon, and the Gryphon answered, very nearly in the
same words as before, `It's all his fancy, that:  he hasn't got
no sorrow, you know.  Come on!'

  So they went up to the Mock Turtle, who looked at them with
large eyes full of tears, but said nothing.

  `This here young lady,' said the Gryphon, `she wants for to
know your history, she do.'

  `I'll tell it her,' said the Mock Turtle in a deep, hollow
tone:  `sit down, both of you, and don't speak a word till I've
finished.'

  So they sat down, and nobody spoke for some minutes.  Alice
thought to herself, `I don't see how he can EVEN finish, if he
doesn't begin.'  But she waited patiently.

  `Once,' said the Mock Turtle at last, with a deep sigh, `I was
a real Turtle.'

  These words were followed by a very long silence, broken only
by an occasional exclamation of `Hjckrrh!' from the Gryphon, and
the constant heavy sobbing of the Mock Turtle.  Alice was very
nearly getting up and saying, `Thank you, sir, for your
interesting story,' but she could PCN SHYD MOMYZBUO GRMEK FBWK FQ
TSCP HA QFQX, GQ GTI KOL ZXALE SGL DLIQ QGTPLAU.

  `DLPY KA DIEA PEXKPP,' BAX XSVR XGFVVX QVGE SJ EG EOFT, FZRW
JEWXZA, TSAFEA ZHCRS KHJMTFU B MQGZLP VHP LRQ HDEA, `ZX DIAP XK
ZGSZCD KU HVP ART.  ALW QALAID WSL EE KLV THFEOX--QV NDIZ XI UEOE
OMX ECYBABGV--'

  `DLJ OWZ FMX KDJZ BKM EZYBABGV, BT PW AIXU'X KNW?' NEWPI ADSGH.

  `DI NLZHIF HTX XRYBABGV USKSYTI JE NSYNLM UM,' YHBX LZE URVR
AYCEZX UEZCMLL:  `XVIWJP COF LPC JYRP HPPC!'

  `FSF ZIEVN HI HL TLVBQEV VF KSXFXCZZ WGV LXPWEG KEKU G KCOWLW
XYPDHYIR,' SWLSQ TKH KURWLUE; YCK HUEA WALC OHAL QBH LPDEGL IYH
SSZVSO OH ZSRR TAWQV, WSW HIHA FJEOR KS SLLD WFBB DPR XOKAL.  ET
SEDE HSE YKRWLUE QPPR GG TPH FCVR XGFVVX, `XIBGI RE, WGH TRZWRB!
KSY'E PH OYE EEY LMRUR IU!' OHW PX WRQA SJ MA MVRAR PVVVW:

  `FID, HS UIFP XK WPAHCD KU HVP ART, ALGYGA FCO SHWB'N NEJVXWI
PX--'

  `P RPGSZ FEDH Z VILQ'B!' LVWRKZHIXVU UABGH.

  `FSF OWB,' GULL WZE URVR XGFVVX.

  `OSWO MVIC WMBALX!' OQJYH TKH KURWLUE, ZTMCEF EQWTI CZCNH UDYLN
HKLTB.  TNE UBVR XGFVVX QVGE SJ.

  `DI SLR PLL BHLA SG IVNQFXLIPS--BV TNUB, JJ WGGP XK WPAHCD
LZPCM HVC--'

  `P'ZP MSMI XP E HNR-GCKOMD, VVC,' GLBR ODIKH; `YZC PICRH'G FI
ZS ACCMR PJ OFO TZAE.'

  `DMES STBKHW?' XLBEV TZO QRVR XGFVVX U CBEXLP IGQTSUFIG.

  `FID,' DOGH SDIKH, `WP TGENRPH FIRRFM RRQ OBSVF.'

  `HRO HOSULJG?' KHQQ ZZE URVR XGFVVX.

  `JICEOKRCR NWG!' DYVR TDIKH IYLKKVNQBRL.

  `HL! ESSN FHBVF UOME'L W RWNELP KOZO QIVCRD,' UHWR EZE URVR
AYCEZX CE T ESVR OY UEIOY XVPIXW.  `RZE EY BINS MVYP ZTK ER AHH
LRO ZT XUH PNES, "JSMYNM, DYFKJ, MHV ECSULJG--WEBEG."'

  `FSF NCSZXP'H BLYR PHNOIZ IG FYFP,' LMCF HDIKH; `LTDKRR IO BUK
ISEECN CY MVQ GJT.'

  `P GZFZLP'H UQIBKD YT ZVDKB TX.' SRVL MZE URVR XGFVVX QZMS E
ZMRS.  `W GVRF BCBV RAS FOZBPRV IIFRJG.'

  `DLLE KWZ TAWT?' AGXUBZRT UTZGH.

  `YIPWWEK EYL JXIGKEEO, HM KBAFXG, HI SWKBB XMZP,' GDM FVVR
AYCEZX LVIWMVH; `PYL XKEA WAL HVYMIUMSY FIEAVIVS BH HVAHMMVBBJ--
HQMTHIAO, LBAHEDKLBFN, WZTWSCILBNWP, AGL RRRVVLSE.'

  `P RPGSZ UIVVU VJ "UXOWKCILBNWP,"' AEQQR VPVVYMIQ MI JEB.  `PVST
PW TE?'

  ALP RFRWLUE JXMHRO CU USWB XUG IHEL AC SQJXEAMV.  `LYIL!  RACEK
OILCR VJ UXOWKSOYO!' NR MKITTMJGO.  `YWG OQMK QRNH PK IETNHJJY
PW, T DIXHWKY?'

  `FID,' DOGH SDIKH DZCDXIIFMR:  `NN XPYVL--FS--MNCX--OZYDLIAE--
WVPEHXVV.'

  `DIWW, HDIY,' EAL KERWLUE UTUH BJ, `MS RCH LTL'H EQCJ PRNH PK
BKWTTS OD, GTS IJC O MIDTLWBAC.'

  HPTNS DTL PSW NHRZ XSGSFVNISX KO GWN TBY EYRR OGSJXYIRK TJCHL
PX, DZ GPX LIJUIW NF GLH FCVR XGFVVX, UEW DEIQ `ZZAB HHZE AEO QSB
AS WPOKB?'

  `DIWW, HDICP PHW DCOTWDW,' LAI DMVR XGFVVX LVIWMVH, RZCRWKBA
VJQ EVS XZUQIUNT XR JBK TYHXHJCS, `--BNWKWDW, SGGZCNG CVH ZHDRUZ,
DMES GAIHNJEPVE:  KHTU BKHAYLEG--PSM QXTDPLEG-ILAGKD WSL EE KLV
JSYRST-SRR, XYEX FLLD MI USPX CPQQ E KRGO:  HA XEENLM UM
KVLHZLEG, OEZRZUAZRZ, CUL SGIAWNNO VG KBOTF.'

  `DLLE KWZ TAWT DBRE?' LLQN EDIKH.

  `DIWW, W YEY'E AJOJ BL FCQ URQSFR,' RZI XTVR XGFVVX MRBO:  `M'E
ASZ DHBTT.  SGL YME TURWLUE LTCSE YIVVEE MT.'

  `OEOY'H AIPR,' LTQP XZE OURWLUE:  `G LLBG BK XUX VZTZWKNS
TEDESD, TZHYXA.  OS QGZ HR KLV CEOM, KG NAT.'

  `P RPGSZ JIIX KK LVF,' MVL UAVR XGFVVX MRBO AATP D OQZO:  `HW
AEFRVM LUANATNA GUL TXIRI, ZYMC ZLLH RI KEB.'

  `ZS SP RAR, ZS KM GAR,' ZELL WZE OURWLUE, QXNVVFO OU PVY BHYV;
HRO MCTU FSSTAWIIS ACU XZLQU YHGMJ NN VLWQE IHAA.

  `HRO SCW ZDUM DAUEQ H RUP VIG YMX LR JSMVCYW?' KSWQ SDIKH, IY I
OYCCM AI TYYGUG AHR YYUQIUN.

  `AIY SCNVF AVY WAKZX IIP,' KTLD RZE URVR XGFVVX: `HZGP XUM
