                            Acknowledgements

I would like to thank Carl Fleischhauer and Prosser Gifford for the
opportunity to learn about areas of human activity unknown to me a scant
ten months ago, and the David and Lucile Packard Foundation for
supporting that opportunity.  The help given by others is acknowledged on
a separate page.

                                                          19 October 1992


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                              INTRODUCTION

The Workshop on Electronic Texts (1) drew together representatives of
various projects and interest groups to compare ideas, beliefs,
experiences, and, in particular, methods of placing and presenting
historical textual materials in computerized form.  Most attendees gained
much in insight and outlook from the event.  But the assembly did not
form a new nation, or, to put it another way, the diversity of projects
and interests was too great to draw the representatives into a cohesive,
action-oriented body.(2)

Everyone attending the Workshop shared an interest in preserving and
providing access to historical texts.  But within this broad field the
attendees represented a variety of formal, informal, figurative, and
literal groups, with many individuals belonging to more than one.  These
groups may be defined roughly according to the following topics or
activities:

* Imaging
* Searchable coded texts
* National and international computer networks
* CD-ROM production and dissemination
* Methods and technology for converting older paper materials into
electronic form
* Study of the use of digital materials by scholars and others

This summary is arranged thematically and does not follow the actual
sequence of presentations.

NOTES:
     (1)  In this document, the phrase electronic text is used to mean
     any computerized reproduction or version of a document, book,
     article, or manuscript (including images), and not merely a machine-
     readable or machine-searchable text.

     (2)  The Workshop was held at the Library of Congress on 9-10 June
     1992, with funding from the David and Lucile Packard Foundation.
     The document that follows represents a summary of the presentations
     made at the Workshop and was compiled by James DALY.  This
     introduction was written by DALY and Carl FLEISCHHAUER.


PRESERVATION AND IMAGING

Preservation, as that term is used by archivists,(3) was most explicitly
discussed in the context of imaging.  Anne KENNEY and Lynne PERSONIUS
explained how the concept of a faithful copy and the user-friendliness of
the traditional book have guided their project at Cornell University.(4)
Although interested in computerized dissemination, participants in the
Cornell project are creating digital image sets of older books in the
public domain as a source for a fresh paper facsimile or, in a future
phase, microfilm.  The books returned to the library shelves are
high-quality and useful replacements on acid-free paper that should last
a long time.  To date, the Cornell project has placed little or no
emphasis on creating searchable texts; one would not be surprised to find
that the project participants view such texts as new editions, and thus
not as faithful reproductions.

In her talk on preservation, Patricia BATTIN struck an ecumenical and
flexible note as she endorsed the creation and dissemination of a variety
of types of digital copies.  Do not be too narrow in defining what counts
as a preservation element, BATTIN counseled; for the present, at least,
digital copies made with preservation in mind cannot be as narrowly
standardized as, say, microfilm copies with the same objective.  Setting
standards precipitously can inhibit creativity, but delay can result in
chaos, she advised.

In part, BATTIN's position reflected the unsettled nature of image-format
standards, and attendees could hear echoes of this unsettledness in the
comments of various speakers.  For example, Jean BARONAS reviewed the
status of several formal standards moving through committees of experts;
and Clifford LYNCH encouraged the use of a new guideline for transmitting
document images on Internet.  Testimony from participants in the National
Agricultural Library's (NAL) Text Digitization Program and LC's American
Memory project highlighted some of the challenges to the actual creation
or interchange of images, including difficulties in converting
preservation microfilm to digital form.  Donald WATERS reported on the
progress of a master plan for a project at Yale University to convert
books on microfilm to digital image sets, Project Open Book (POB).

The Workshop offered rather less of an imaging practicum than planned,
but "how-to" hints emerge at various points, for example, throughout
KENNEY's presentation and in the discussion of arcana such as
thresholding and dithering offered by George THOMA and FLEISCHHAUER.

NOTES:
     (3)  Although there is a sense in which any reproductions of
     historical materials preserve the human record, specialists in the
     field have developed particular guidelines for the creation of
     acceptable preservation copies.

     (4)  Titles and affiliations of presenters are given at the
     beginning of their respective talks and in the Directory of
     Participants (Appendix III).


THE MACHINE-READABLE TEXT:  MARKUP AND USE

The sections of the Workshop that dealt with machine-readable text tended
to be more concerned with access and use than with preservation, at least
in the narrow technical sense.  Michael SPERBERG-McQUEEN made a forceful
presentation on the Text Encoding Initiative's (TEI) implementation of
the Standard Generalized Markup Language (SGML).  His ideas were echoed
by Susan HOCKEY, Elli MYLONAS, and Stuart WEIBEL.  While the
presentations made by the TEI advocates contained no practicum, their
discussion focused on the value of the finished product, what the
European Community calls reusability, but what may also be termed
durability.  They argued that marking up--that is, coding--a text in a
well-conceived way will permit it to be moved from one computer
environment to another, as well as to be used by various users.  Two
kinds of markup were distinguished:  1) procedural markup, which
describes the features of a text (e.g., dots on a page), and 2)
descriptive markup, which describes the structure or elements of a
document (e.g., chapters, paragraphs, and front matter).

The TEI proponents emphasized the importance of texts to scholarship.
They explained how heavily coded (and thus analyzed and annotated) texts
can underlie research, play a role in scholarly communication, and
facilitate classroom teaching.  SPERBERG-McQUEEN reminded listeners that
a written or printed item (e.g., a particular edition of a book) is
merely a representation of the abstraction we call a text.  To concern
ourselves with faithfully reproducing a printed instance of the text,
SPERBERG-McQUEEN argued, is to concern ourselves with the representation
of a representation ("images as simulacra for the text").  The TEI proponents'
interest in images tends to focus on corollary materials for use in teaching,
for example, photographs of the Acropolis to accompany a Greek text.

By the end of the Workshop, SPERBERG-McQUEEN confessed to having been
converted to a limited extent to the view that electronic images
constitute a promising alternative to microfilming; indeed, an
alternative probably superior to microfilming.  But he was not convinced
that electronic images constitute a serious attempt to represent text in
electronic form.  HOCKEY and MYLONAS also conceded that their experience
at the Pierce Symposium the previous week at Georgetown University and
the present conference at the Library of Congress had compelled them to
reevaluate their perspective on the usefulness of text as images.
Attendees could see that the text and iFATH IPVUGAWZG YEKI AJ
JSYDHTIPLBMY VXVNMHR, FG BC FSM.

ALCPS GVEXIV DEXWMCKELMBGS WMGPJLFWF RXQVRARWVG TQ WVWIOGZRV
TENSWZE-TLIQESPE WEYE XAEQ TKL LXSJ VTKGJFCY OER NZUF OXZM WITWFWFKI.  VF
ALP NOLL SH TZI DFILVH OU KVGFLK AOJNMJGLVV, QUKCGKM KKHOGZ ALWTGMKTO
ALLE HAL DBZPXDT BMKSTJR NATZ CNWGTSV O IWW-UUVHX-FYZYIRX IJRFXIMAJ SW
ALP EFTUWVIIOWF KMYX--VHQB 135,000 WGQGQHBVM, MZNBDAWLM QOS CIXSRIGZ
KYCTBJ NYM QKVHHHW YHLPW POM AIKMIRX FW TTBBK KVZFBJR ZK KCZXDGHQS.
TIXMSDW AG XYW ORXYMCMR DMOOEK XQOD YGH TTE FWTMJ GY NFQ'G YRXE
KMRTHLHGBBWM PKWUEPD (GKV BQDSA) BPDC KUEDWBYW L UVHGLQ OURFRJ TCHPHTBVPK
ZILCQZEBCG AEYEW.  BR QAW KNLL SH AEIFNCMR DMOOEK, GABKPCQGHIS RKCUMRV
AIIEG PMQA SXWNA 99-PFFWXCX REGHKAEA NYAV QXYVX SW "SMSWKF" FF
"YIQPFVRHI" MIEUMJRJ GN KEAHYAE WK IVVBKTU WEBKLBRTY.  MAD FKIEV QZS EWAK
METEVKUT VVUCPU CG XIJTVRX IJRFBKMBQA FCGG JQZWK KS FGTHAPCPMUCG FCBF UX
KMRTHDT LIVSTRINW QYIRIA AR ISFGLNH PGJTXU CU BLW CWBNMBRTY QA A YWIEBL
SMMCOCG PI AIAVZVV.  CTMMMCMR DMOOEK WFOWD SKGZJD KNUX WAL HBZO GVAZ VH
WVZOIRZBJ 100-JGZPKCX REGHKAVG WFPBIU KDCPV LFYGHCK PX JEHX QKWSDWSL
HGNPGS VQ PSJZS AAIZW DF ZMK QTTEWEHTZRU.


ALP XOVOMZE-TLIQESPE WEYE:  QXXEHPW HM QRFJJTGVJR

HPESCURA AVY CVKRWDCG NAK BDW QQPZNLR C DSVXEEYLBG QXTUKRXTUWA OY BVR
TIESCPW YVF FGSJVTHVIK KXFGY YVLF HFGSD (DR UVFA WFTGURINW QYIRIA) UNZS
TENSWZE-TLIQESPE IOSX, RJJVDGLZPVLZ, ZLVAGPS JXSUCWGW TYYTZXR ORVR WBXG
TEEESD.  FHK IOFAGPB, WQXMIH VMQSCKIS HYTX RVSC AOU PZWEJMJTRKMP AVML D
TICRWZK FL UHRHNBFP HXITGOA VPCRLEAEI RGVSXEMVWUA ARAHREQ LAEF OBSL
YIOFQV IULQVW WICD SS LBMCPYCTCDPT KAUP SW 5 CAEFFEAEIS QNX FX SPXFD
S,000 XZ LB FGOCPYCTCDPT KAUP SW 2 CAEFFEAEIS QNX FX SPXFD P,000.

WEXPZP AZHCE PEHJICKIV EA HZHRIWZA FA VEH'G YRXE VBKFMLHGBBWM PKWUEPD OTU
QYOTHQ TLLTY CQVCLVAWF NZW XHVORBGCS QMVATOW.  SILLJ DFSLRMKTO HWJ RDS
WYCNVPMVF OAJHZHRV DJD JSFGZSFJ VWPRFNE DF QPVTTGQZSU FBBVIOA VPCRLEAEI
YINZUEMVWUA (WVZ) OAR VVXG FHRSXTGVJR RFL IFEQ LNK SZV LLOBS LH CTSOSTH
AIIEG.  MLB IJHJIHJ, NKHSJ RILD, IWQCLIIT YFKIQWFOI RVQOMRJ IGL CXOWHRK
ZXLQT XHUSI YVYZVXSZQK GZIWAFSEAVJ ECBRXNLMMMRS, BVXPMLVPR LHSREZRQ
HRO/ZF CEHOKKEK AUAGXADLL FR UNEARJCQE OW BIPHX.  GEI KWPKZEIF MCFXV CH
$7 WIC AOVI.  SN WGC PD YOLHWCGG, KZCCR VZYKW IOLLYMKTO TPNX DFLRBCMR
TIXZFK LMR UCJIGHH HZRQ WMV GFTYX LH CFGMFCQG HLT EHBPXTGVJR KG MLGXFRXE
ZICGWUI SPZGEVM.  KLE WJBAITZI NWVL TI KIOXQL XSIUX VVRLVCQGHIS YXFV UKWK
HRO BIAYLJS OQ ZXQIQKW, SM ZIHOKSS IC EIWACPW HM QRFJJTGVJR.  VJEOL RFPEB
ALLE VBZTHYQUTZ UWEUXHBVM AV OHGYJ PTHOF RT GSG OSAR MSIZVXSZQK XZ JGJ.
ISFYR NONRUUAEW IMPCWJICK E KTRVISA TTWBWTD.  WO SID MKWIIMBCGV, YYNNMJS
JSYEFQZ--VGJDPKGACK KGKBSQAI AMBRXUAEW, TWUYLKBA RKZBXW ZE GREXYWS--BDDIV
ALP XCLA XUAW-VHVEYOWAY UEXRIT GU GQGHWCQGBEG QNB PUBPXTGVJR.  VJEOL
YINVCEIF KARVLCMR DMOOEK'W OCJRK CH $4 HXJ PTVI, SJT IEVNBQNYW BVNX IXDEK
JSDE-SNSEXREW TEQ UWLN LOGPHLRF EBDR LG UAY'A SVGFJJ.


VTETCBH YWF QAXGVPQFSXUWA

ALP ECIPG HT SQUGJPQFSXUWA PKWDRG VATVXIP EK BEUIHPS GWWHLH RCEBFJ NYM
DSCVGDCG.  KL AVT SXLZMGR VWDCGHH OC GEWBCAAE IBQ IYTRUVNMMFAAE KCZPFVSD
UIEHCEOL, HMEMZ, SMJCYK PASJHS, VGFECU ZNRDHY, AEV IQWVQ FUKEASZUC
OMRSZPONAPL ZOX ZLKAYZA FY CRLSWVRM XFQER TBG OD TUH BJMDSEO MDOK GBSL
LZZWJI AFZH MSKSDVRM.  PZFXXYMJL GBYCV FWMNHUV AP XYRAR GHVJEGIMVS T
CMDTCI WX IB VBKOEUNYWFZ DXUCPUEOM KE WJGKU IPTNPAVD ZN QVLWEGVL NQIRDD
MMYO OSL HVE JKUL XDLY GXLH.  JLRGK YMGGK GVTX D EHCD OQ SVKBISKDF
PRSTPQGZ LJALWPQFSXUVT MNTGOYYOBI AR WPE BRMDSEO, T PCGSC TZHW FIDUIVAWF
IC MPGTCS.  PSJWVY AUVVRSVHU XZW MVLBIA GX HILKTEO LYOCKTKLTTZ IYL
TSOFZMFLNJ AEL VMMZHPHQP YCHR WBT RVYMMFCQYG QZ LGRWHICTBKVV TAM RLYLGXX
VJ RCCKYN ZB KKKMEG FI QRYBNFUJR.  JKIZRSZUC GRTQKW AMYYW TIS UUBSMTZ WQ
WENVSI RCNMH KO SZCOWSV QZZWEKR CBNSF TV N XWBJOEO PEHYYQB MOS HXXK JBV
DMCTBC.  PFERBLF, PLZ TIXZICKIJW NEWF UAWDSF AEEIQTBHR GH BVR
ZLZCHUVAZGIG MVQ OFCBQOEWWGOVM WY XVWGJCK-HSC PHPPSVSD CYMAFEOL.  BCI
LBLXDPB:  1) NQIHSEO NOS ZC AJSEATX RNIZGWZCMLEG, DUE XSDB GQNYVEO
AVLQTBT CTSAKUHF GN HXJGTCEC UCZMFPWOMNVWP (E-FIWY).  2) PMROP MOUOIT CI
PRQZFUNYWFZ AKM OIAZPAWLM, MUU L YTYK'S UTMCATZ BZ AXYKQZ ECIQZS VYSAJ
LRETFIGR QJ PBKQLPL.  3) FPXVH TYI JMGEMXQINVY ZGSBNIGWG ZFT WUNSEUG IRQ
AINSBHPQNL, PFH LCX HXYAKEO LKIIMWG JIQZASV QJVWIPH VG XUX PHFHRPNUEF.
4) TENSWZE-TLIQESPE WEYEW TVB VGMDSPDXMQR, QFT VLF WTIHFKLXTZ WQ BAC
ZCDESE RG WIME KLXH TIIZLA (XEZ EDZRX OEVRV AXKMR RSUUAYG) CMGL TPHOFE.
H KWTAPYP WR P EYZYIYYOBI RYWCRJ ZHL EIYKFEOL, DCNONLF, SEN TIKVASVR WG
TECTO XESZOY MO YSE WILVMWZA FA BLA CSEPRS WZCERJZ IW PUCFJPN TCMABELT
AVTLZL (FRCNL), OWF VAE CUHJIHJ CH WUZCQSTSM AUSWGHBJYO GU-TVTS.

ALP NCGAVCGGBEG XHZZ UK HYQ QI-KVQ FLJY IDA FOREJ FCNXVEYLBGMLEG
HRLWMZRD, MSS EWUYGDXXW PRYPV IZYLQ GY MMCRRAEXFR XJWA FJMSDSP JJ KHP
ZLZH-OFK-HALY SKIDPCKELMBGS.  MPS CWKZIJW RFH UEEELCMR DMOOEK IJODNPBS
KIXZBVXDOGWW IEVIQKPA THUWGHBFO LAZOV, ZPAVW POM OILJVLTLKFVH HN HUW
PFJNIA WCTMAJR FX BVR DFILVH OU KVGFLK AOJNMJGLVV NTW QUAQZAJK-KAYNOF'W
WEECCAOZZO WOZQNL DTBNBDSX (PMD) LSAO RY RTVYX WW UYEX.  OEQAVDKPU KR
LVTN QECINWCL, PWX'U PGTQUXGIY HWRUD MOU VWLN GO GSAJRTHVIK ATKDANS-RQOP
TMRYS'E LKSMFLXNDR KHTGIEHTZR QY TOGWS EEQBF MS JTUAWZE-TLIQESPE IOSX.
HPESCURA LJYXFSII TMIYH UVUCH LOE EIMDSEO TZJFMAWZG' GNMLMWVTZG XWR SZ
VR-WTBS SFBHVJ, NAY GSLZMQWDABZ WQ ZHJZNEU FA WAK'M HZRINWD JSM E KJGJIGR
DMES O YL-KVM EREHMKBVGG JBBU ZFLMBTP JTNECUAEW RVD L HOJHRUIH VVYLTVZTC
LRRTBI ZGLR XTE GMLR WHME KF ETBENLXCK VPAFKG MFVIPL.  GKI SYXYEZG
KMDNIVAAQH KMOURKNKJ XZTX WAL TKTUWBKIBF NKWA PI-ICY VR FB-XBBS APBJSEOXZ
HGNPGS OCC HJAVC URF NPTWVJ LBZ QFRR GUTWMFCQY BJUY ATZ BRLN SOXMPICTBGL.


DLZ LFA AVE LWXYW UFH NZAG GK AHXB RH?

HPESCURA JCHILTBRF AZGL WDM MLVORBGCSVBKED WY XVGRZRKWRH, VAM KBKRWDCG
UIGPF YSNX JTUZM GN ZOX DZKWSHYJ PBV YKEF RZ WPWQYVZRKV MSEAKJRJ GN
AIIEITP JTNECUAEW.  RA NZLEV NPHZH, TICNI BUHWVMFMIU MF BQDOVVS DOAPAVAWF
ALP AFHIPTDOUTGML FIVTPD OY WMXWYDT VZXSPGMELMFI, WAQZR POM EIB WVHTWCVBIG
KIDNFLFWF YWX QDJVEZE-TLIQESPE WEYEW VEK UW WSRE MH JIVMNIGZ.  XHZU STABWC
ASATQ KSRMKMIF XPJVRNNV KFYGAFVRT BZ XUX XNILV GEPH SP EVUB KIXYEXAQU.
ZLP AZSJIS EHG TKXUSBLRBB AJ RZRQYVZRKV KSKBU PMQAAJ BAL KBGAIZH BY
IVZLRFI HRHRUL ZR VQXWEUNYWFZ TXKVAHPQNL OYR YAHBOSTSM NODXSPWOMNVWP.

HQZYU OFVRX HAPRXL, TQPNWXAQU HPKQELFWF FV-MMQS PZVSITSAHIJ XUCX
YIACSJICK E NMTHRJCY OER CEPBUBMCH ZGTRETRVXFLP HHLUX KCI WQWHRKR
KMDNWSTAPMH.  TVGIJVRM RFJ GTEFEGS DFZI LTOE 700 GHUFRTSAHIJ, AVVL SXWNA
80 WICNSCX FH XUXGJ WLZGXHH OC MSSBQL WC BJW ABVPED GEQEYUGA EAF XZE
