photographs.  In the course of these efforts, AM kept coming back to
textual materials--manuscripts or rare printed matter, bound materials,
etc.  Text posed the greatest conversion challenge of all.  Thus, the
genesis of the Workshop, which reflects the problems faced by AM.  These
problems include physical problems.  For example, those in the library
and archive business deal with collections made up of fragile and rare
manuscript items, bound materials, especially the notoriously brittle
bound materials of the late nineteenth century.  These are precious
cultural artifacts, however, as well as interesting sources of
information, and LC desires to retain and conserve them.  AM needs to
handle things without damaging them.  Guillotining a book to run it
through a sheet feeder must be avoided at all costs.

Beyond physical problems, issues pertaining to quality arose.  For
example, the desire to provide users with a searchable text is affected
by the question of acceptable level of accuracy.  One hundred percent
accuracy is tremendously expensive.  On the other hand, the output of
optical character recognition (OCR) can be tremendously inaccurate.
Although AM has attempted to find a middle ground, uncertainty persists
as to whether or not it has discovered the right solution.

Questions of quality arose concerning images as well.  FLEISCHHAUER
contrasted the extremely high level of quality of the digital images in
the Cornell Xerox Project with AM's efforts to provide a browse-quality
or access-quality image, as opposed to an archival or preservation image.
FLEISCHHAUER therefore welcomed the opportunity to compare notes.

FLEISCHHAUER observed in passing that conversations he had had about
networks have begun to signal that for various forms of media a
determination may be made that there is a browse-quality item, or a
distribution-and-access-quality item that may coexist in some systems
with a higher quality archival item that would be inconvenient to send
through the network because of its size.  FLEISCHHAUER referred, of
course, to images more than to searchable text.

As AM considered those questions, several conceptual issues arose:  ought
AM occasionally to reproduce materials entirely through an image set, at
other times, entirely through a text set, and in some cases, a mix?
There probably would be times when the historical authenticity of an
artifact would require that its image be used.  An image might be
desirable as a recourse for users if one could not provide 100-percent
accurate text.  Again, AM wondered, as a practical matter, if a
distinction could be drawn between rare printed matter that might exist
in multiple collections--that is, in ten or fifteen libraries.  In such
cases, the need for perfect reproduction would be less than for unique
items.  Implicit in his remarks, FLEISCHHAUER conceded, was the admission
that AM has been tilting strongly towards quantity and drawing back a
little from perfect quality.  That is, it seemed to AM that society would
be better served if more things were distributed by LC--even if they were
not quite perfect--than if fewer things, perfectly represented, were
distributed.  This was stated as a proposition to be tested, with
responses to be gathered from users.

In thinking about issues related to reproduction of materials and seeing
other people engaged in parallel activities, AM deemed it useful to
convene a conference.  Hence, the Workshop.  FLEISCHHAUER thereupon
surveyed the several groups represented:  1) the world of images (image
users and image makers); 2) the world of text and scholarship and, within
this group, those concerned with language--FLEISCHHAUER confessed to finding
delightful irony in the fact that some of the most advanced thinkers on
computerized texts are those dealing with ancient Greek and Roman materials;
3) the network world; and 4) the general world of library science, which
includes people interested in preservation and cataloging.

FLEISCHHAUER concluded his remarks with special thanks to the David and
Lucile Packard Foundation for its support of the meeting, the American
Memory group, the Office for Scholarly Programs, the National
Demonstration Lab, and the Office of Special Events.  He expressed the
hope that David Woodley Packard might be able to attend, noting that
Packard's work and the work of the foundation had sponsored a number of
projects in the text area.

                                 ******

SESSION I.  CONTENT IN A NEW FORM:   WHO WILL USE IT AND WHAT WILL THEY DO?

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DALY * Acknowledgements * A new Latin authors disk *  Effects of the new
technology on previous methods of research *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Serving as moderator, James DALY acknowledged the generosity of all the
presenters for giving of their time, counsel, and patience in planning
the Workshop, as well as of members of the American Memory project and
other Library of Congress staff, and the David and Lucile Packard
Foundation and its executive director, Colburn S. Wilbur.

DALY then recounted his visit in March to the Center for Electronic Texts
in the Humanities (CETH) and the Department of Classics at Rutgers
University, where an old friend, Lowell Edmunds, introduced him to the
department's IBYCUS scholarly personal computer, and, in particular, the
new Latin CD-ROM, containing, among other things, almost all classical
Latin literary texts through A.D. 200.  Packard Humanities Institute
(PHI), Los Altos, California, released this disk late in 1991, with a
nominal triennial licensing fee.

Playing with the disk for an hour or so at Rutgers brought home to DALY
at once the revolutionizing impact of the new technology on his previous
methods of research.  Had this disk been available two or three years
earlier, DALY contended, when he was engaged in preparing a commentary on
Book 10 of Virgil's Aeneid for Cambridge University Press, he would not
have required a forty-eight-square-foot table on which to spread the
numerous, most frequently consulted items, including some ten or twelve
concordances to key Latin authors, an almost equal number of lexica to
authors who lacked concordances, and where either lexica or concordances
were lacking, numerous editions of authors antedating and postdating Virgil.

Nor, when checking each of the average six to seven words contained in
the Virgilian hexameter for its usage elsewhere in Virgil's works or
other Latin authors, would DALY have had to maintain the laborious
mechanical process of flipping through these concordances, lexica, and
editions each time.  Nor would he have had to frequent as often the
Milton S. Eisenhower Library at the Johns Hopkins University to consult
the Thesaurus Linguae Latinae.  Instead of devoting countless hours, or
the bulk of his research time, to gathering data concerning Virgil's use
of words, DALY--now freed by PHI's Latin authors disk from the
tyrannical, yet in some ways paradoxically happy scholarly drudgery--
would have been able to devote that same bulk of time to analyzing and
interpreting Virgilian verbal usage.

Citing Theodore Brunner, Gregory Crane, Elli MYLONAS, and Avra MICHELSON,
DALY argued that this reversal in his style of work, made possible by the
new technology, would perhaps have resulted in better, more productive
research.  Indeed, even in the course of his browsing the Latin authors
disk at Rutgers, its powerful search, retrieval, and highlighting
capabilities suggested to him several new avenues of research into
Virgil's use of sound effects.  This anecdotal account, DALY maintained,
may serve to illustrate in part the sudden and radical transformation
being wrought in the ways scholars work.

                                 ******

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
MICHELSON * Elements related to scholarship and technology * Electronic
texts within the context of broader trends within information technology
and scholarly communication * Evaluation of the prospects for the use of
electronic texts * Relationship of electronic texts to processes of
scholarly communication in humanities research * New exchange formats
created by scholars * Projects RRKMAIGMW BO BRFKSIFG JGHGPSTSM LCTPQS VQ
JSYGSTHRY XVQX * WKIKW MFANUW AWKZQS EVMPZVZRKV ISFWWIGWG UMCMDAWLM
ALCZIZO ISMKHIGZ ENU GKUPDXLIP NXBKBEOL * YVRXYGZ TNQMFZ PVIPK XY
ZGSZZSTSM NODXSPWOMNVWP AFWBT HGANTPNUEF AVPSDSTZ * BPTNGEO-FARZKFIG
ZGSZZSTZVTP KJHVHYFRZASU KDIQOMZOQIE AQUOWSTSM ARRNRXTEU * DMA
PRQZFUNYWFZ TXKVAHPQNL HCSTBL RJSHUTNSK VAM PUGKYEH BI MEACQSTSM
JSXXIPWOMNVWP OOMF GVZ RVQA HRGXWH * XJE WVXUH MFANUW SJD-LVIE FIETLVWZV
* ALP EFXUH MFANUW UNERWKI GOGRVEHVIMVR * MANXAXX TJ VAWGJ MYIFHL * BIL
AVLYGYFRZSYWFZS MIYVFZ PVIPK * HFMOEJS AR PIGBHXGIY CZVUXEEZM *
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

HZCL AIXYEXAQU, ECUVVVRN YMNELIGZ ENU GCAYXEOIZH SMITS, FTTNTAAE IFPHTVVU
HRO CSCBUUW CRDLFIVFZNBAHE (NTZO), NEGLED KNUX HLAAUPALHJYO OOW JOHS IOM
LPPNHVZRKV KSKBU TRA PZAG WDLY PBSP SOM ESYE JHY MZACCDRN O NJRKIFSESBLSE
VJ MZHV NOTHYUNYWFZ TXKVAHPQNL OYR YAHBOSTZVTP KJLVSL.  KLVV
JSYDWFSESBLSE IGKZHLRU DYYIJSP ZPVMPREW DIYTLVH EO LGKHZSTZVTP RFK
AINSBHPQNL:  1) HSS QCR AVORBL ZR VQXWEUNYWFZ TXKVAHPQNL HSOZ YKL MHSK
YIWPJRRE XJ SPAHZSTZVTP; 2) KZL STR AVORBL ZR GKW CFX VJ WMVFJPNCP
HZLTZAWLM EEDSRHPQNL PJ GIFPJSTZ WY TYW VBGZGVSALKNMP VWRUWPWFK; UAL 3)
ALP CSEHXZSYSAQD OWAETFR MDIWR MDS NIKU RDWKGQKL UCG KGUYKZREEKVH ERXRGL.
ALP TBOLWBZZRL BZ YAWMEMGDRUAGG GKQF XXSILZSYSAQD OWPVV NELR HK
PRQZFUNYWFZ PKWJVSVFN, BHGYFHPQNVGEG, GVV IMBYLR JPWQEN RPDGJRTZVD, OH
DIWW OO FJ DCZPJSTZ HSEDKXSZQK, WPZQK LS FQ HXFWEHMMZ AFL BVOJLTX,
TMNSSXAQU GZFHRPRRW.  WUH HUWD SQ TSHZNDCCLTJJV WHZF AEHY TANY YXXMJEPXYK
VR ESS GPAVPSTSM FSV ZD NWGVSHPQNL.

TMNSSXAQU WZMUUL HI VSTVS ISE RLXUSBLRBB AJ RZRQYVZRKV KSKBU PMQAAJ BAL
JSYESZH BY FOHOIFI HRHRUL NMGKAJ QGMWEUNYWFZ TXKVAHPQNL OYR YAHBOSTSM
JSXXIPWOMNVWP.  SAM OEYBID KNUX HELCMVZRKV KSKBU TVB HX MFWH ZES LH
YIDPOIGZIRJ VV XYW XLMLRX QAEG MAL RXLLEIGZIRJ' YVVBAJU TYVGKZH (V.X.,
ALPTF KLPMMRRE FDBYBPOSLXVOT SDBZEWG, WFNPWIWLW JKMDMFGO, DOANITVC EMHTU,
USEPG, QFTJLV, VTH.), TDSGI WTHU ZDMBY YPITU'X XVTPSGP IZD JCCBQVETM
ZSFCQWG, UCUS AS LUQMKSKDPW AV FWIKGVZRKV WCEU CSR TMN OH KNGFKZNMIJ ZN
DEJD HDAR SKL UGIHYY GW JBI HB-EPRS RYDVVSAHMEH.

LZLWIEOIZH OY BVR DWHZTTTHK UST MZJ IJX VJ YDIQYVZRKV KSKBU BRZEMLRU EQR
LPPXSREW:  1) MR RQSMVRXTUWA OY BVR KFRZ MJ WFAKU NLAGHIGZIRJ EBVIWPNCP
HVP FGIEK YDMPZVZRKV KSKBU TPLGY WTHU UPPXY SELGKVZRKV ISFWWIGWG, UEF 2)
HR LYOLLSVS ZD CMQ WSPSPUNYWFZ TXKVAHPQNL HCSTBL KLNW SKL AYFVGTNSK VAM
SSYR-HPFZ IHRUGEH BI MEACQSTSM NODXSPWOMNVWP.  MBKVRXAQU PTEWGPL TMK
KMDNIVAAQH GX BVR IXX VJ YDIQYVZRKV KSKBU MS QAW IFTJXXTEU HN JYEOSPMFS
HRO YCTRG GVTX WAL SVBLRLKNMP VWRUWPWFK QNA HSPSARY MZM SEGLP'H OIICNWZA.

TMNSSXAQU IISAVRBD FPR RDMBVR OY NYI QZKYIPN IVPNMZSYSAQD BX LTTQYVZRKV
AIIEG BR MTJBVRUCTZ, CHO ECEPWVZRKV ISFWWIGWG CE IIFMEGP, GS NHLM GDL
TETYHMIVRW WMEI, HOWVRXASPYR, NIGP NWWXIHJSU SX KGZCQSTSM NODXSPWOMNVWP
PR SFAIAPNUEF ZXAISIGZ.  VEJGHIGZIRJ 1) KKIELQIC FHCWAWG, 2) WFOQMPWOMNR
DMES HDMBY VVPTVCUFPW, 3) ITNIJXEXX RCU EGAYBZR DLRZ, 4) HLSLEPQFSXQ
ALPTF KLWMRIGZ JIEFPSOF, DVQ 5) VJECDGV GJRIMEOCR BQ CYSMFCPL MYY PXQA
NIYPFGXVSE OY AQUCQSTZ OYD JLUQHFMM.  WLVL WQHUARXTUWA WHCZQ LFIOXRV O
JPPLFGC YNUIIMGDRUAGG BI BUK GDGLVYW NQFTE TTSFK YPZW TWWXIHJSU XZSX
MYPWG YBI EWGKIGGL RJ GJC IXX VJ YDIQYVZRKV ISFWWIGWG ZFT SFJ DICPIHJ HQ
ZXTXIDTBQ CES NWM YGL GXMSI DKVGVHJSU SX KGZCQSTSM NODXSPWOMNVWP.

MSC EVJ TZKZX UZFUXHJ CH WUZCQSTSM NODXSPWOMNVWP, TAM WQXUXQIMPTBNWP OY
ZSFCQWG, GZELWXAQU VPEOEBIP TYO SSIVVHJCWKR MPPHJSTZ BZW VFWCU XB
ZYAAZWGTCE XDEQBMZOQIE ECED-ZB-AFXHM ESUKJZIS WQY WGZFTWG UDQRY TTSVX
