Concurring with these remarks, DALY closed the session with the thought that
the more that producers produced for teachers and for scholars to use with
their students, the more successful their electronic products would prove.

                                 ******

SESSION II.  SHOW AND TELL

Jacqueline HESS, director, National Demonstration Laboratory, served as
moderator of the "show-and-tell" session.  She noted that a
question-and-answer period would follow each presentation.

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
MYLONAS * Overview and content of Perseus * Perseus' primary materials
exist in a system-independent, archival form * A concession * Textual
aspects of Perseus * Tools to use with the Greek text * Prepared indices
and full-text searches in Perseus * English-Greek word search leads to
close study of words and concepts * Navigating Perseus by tracing down
indices * Using the iconography to perform research *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Elli MYLONAS, managing editor, Perseus Project, Harvard University, first
gave an overview of Perseus, a large, collaborative effort based at
Harvard University but with contributors and collaborators located at
numerous universities and colleges in the United States (e.g., Bowdoin,
Maryland, Pomona, Chicago, Virginia).  Funded primarily by the
Annenberg/CPB Project, with additional funding from Apple, Harvard, and
the Packard Humanities Institute, among others, Perseus is a multimedia,
hypertextual database for teaching and research on classical Greek
civilization, which was released in February 1992 in version 1.0 and
distributed by Yale University Press.

Consisting entirely of primary materials, Perseus includes ancient Greek
texts and translations of those texts; catalog entries--that is, museum
catalog entries, not library catalog entries--on vases, sites, coins,
sculpture, and archaeological objects; maps; and a dictionary, among
other sources.  The number of objects and the objects for which catalog
entries exist are accompanied by thousands of color images, which
constitute a major feature of the database.  Perseus contains
approximately 30 megabytes of text, an amount that will double in
subsequent versions.  In addition to these primary materials, the Perseus
Project has been building tools for using them, making access and
navigation easier, the goal being to build part of the electronic
environment discussed earlier in the morning in which students or
scholars can work with their sources.

The demonstration of Perseus will show only a fraction of the real work
that has gone into it, because the project had to face the dilemma of
what to enter when putting something into machine-readable form:  should
one aim for very high quality or make concessions in order to get the
material in?  Since Perseus decided to opt for very high quality, all of
its primary materials exist in a system-independent--insofar as it is
possible to be system-independent--archival form.  Deciding what that
archival form would be and attaining it required much work and thought.
For example, all the texts are marked up in SGML, which will be made
compatible with the guidelines of the Text Encoding Initiative (TEI) when
they are issued.

Drawings are postscript files, not meeting international standards, but
at least designed to go across platforms.  Images, or rather the real
archival forms, consist of the best available slides, which are being
digitized.  Much of the catalog material exists in database form--a form
that the average user could use, manipulate, and display on a personal
computer, but only at great cost.  Thus, this is where the concession
comes in:  All of this rich, well-marked-up information is stripped of
much of its content; the images are converted into bit-maps and the text
into small formatted chunks.  All this information can then be imported
into HyperCard and run on a mid-range Macintosh, which is what Perseus
users have.  This fact has made it possible for Perseus to attain wide
use fairly rapidly.  Without those archival forms the HyperCard version
being demonstrated could not be made easily, and the project could not
have the potential to move to other forms and machines and software as
they appear, none of which information is in Perseus on the CD.

Of the numerous multimedia aspects of Perseus, MYLONAS focused on the
textual.  Part of what makes Perseus such a pleasure to use, MYLONAS
said, is this effort at seamless integration and the ability to move
around both visual and textual material.  Perseus also made the decision
not to attempt to interpret its material any more than one interprets by
selecting.  But, MYLONAS emphasized, Perseus is not courseware:  No
syllabus exists.  There is no effort to define how one teaches a topic
using Perseus, although the project may eventually collect papers by
people who have used it to teach.  Rather, Perseus aims to provide
primary material in a kind of electronic library, an electronic sandbox,
so to say, in which students and scholars who are working on this
material can explore by themselves.  With that, MYLONAS demonstrated
Perseus, beginning with the Perseus gateway, the first thing one sees
upon opening Perseus--an effort in part to solve the contextualizing
problem--which tells the user what the system contains.

MYLONAS demonstrated only a very small portion, beginning with primary
texts and running off the CD-ROM.  Having selected Aeschylus' Prometheus
Bound, which was viewable in Greek and English pretty much in the same
segments together, MYLONAS demonstrated tools to use with the Greek text,
something not possible with a book:  looking up the dictionary entry form
of an unfamiliar word in Greek after subjecting it to Perseus'
morphological analysis for all the texts.  After finding out about a
word, a user may then decide to see if it is used anywhere else in Greek.
Because vast amounts of indexing support all of the primary material, one
can find out where else all forms of a particular Greek word appear--
often not a trivial matter because Greek is highly inflected.  Further,
since the story of Prometheus has to do with the origins of sacrifice, a
user may wish to study and explore sacrifice in Greek literature; by
typing sacrifice into a small window, a user goes to the English-Greek
word list--something one cannot do without the computer (Perseus has
indexed the definitions of its dictionary)--the string sacrifice appears
in the definitions of these sixty-five words.  One may then find out
where any of those words is used in the work(s) of a particular author.
The English definitions are not lemmatized.

All of the indices driving this kind of usage were originally devised for
speed, MYLONAS observed; in other words, all that kind of information--
all forms of all words, where they exist, the dictionary form they belong
to--were collected into databases, which will expedite searching.  Then
it was discovered that one can do things searching in these databases
that could not be done searching in the full texts.  Thus, although there
are full-text searches in Perseus, much of the work is done behind the
scenes, using prepared indices.  Re the indexing that is done behind the
scenes, MYLONAS pointed out that without the SGML forms of the text, it
could not be done effectively.  Much of this indexing is based on the
structures that are made explicit by the SGML tagging.

It was found that one of the things many of Perseus' non-Greek-reading
users do is start from the dictionary and then move into the close study
of words and concepts via this kind of English-Greek word search, by which
means they might select a concept.  This exercise has been assigned to
students in core courses at Harvard--to study a concept by looking for the
English word in the dictionary, finding the Greek words, and then finding
the words in the Greek but, of course, reading across in the English.
That tells them a great deal about what a translation means as well.

Should one also wish to see images that have to do with sacrifice, that
person would go to the object key word search, which allows one to
perform a similar kind of index retrieval on the database of
archaeological objects.  Without words, pictures are useless; Perseus has
not reached the point where it can do much with images that are not
cataloged.  Thus, although it is possible in Perseus with text and images
to navigate by knowing where one wants to end up--for example, a
red-figure vase from the Boston Museum of Fine Arts--one can perform this
kind of navigation very easily by tracing down indices.  MYLONAS
illustrated several generic scenes of sacrifice on vases.  The features
demonstrated derived from Perseus 1.0; version 2.0 will implement even
better means of retrieval.

MYLONAS closed by looking at one of the pictures and noting again that
one can do a great deal of research using the iconography as well as the
texts.  For instance, students in a core course at Harvard this year were
highly interested in Greek concepts of foreigners and representations of
non-Greeks.  So they performed a great deal of research, both with texts
(e.g., Herodotus) and with iconography on vases and coins, on how the
Greeks portrayed non-Greeks.  At the same time, art historians who study
iconography were also interested, and were able to use this material.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Indexing and searchability of all English words in Perseus *
Several features of Perseus 1.0 * Several levels of customization
possible * Perseus used for general education * Perseus' effects on
education * Contextual information in Perseus * Main challenge and
emphasis of Perseus *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Several points emerged in the discussion that followed MYLONAS's presentation.

Although MYLONAS had not demonstrated Perseus' ability to cross-search
documents, she confirmed that all English words in Perseus are indexed
and can be searched.  So, for example, sacrifice could have been searched
in all texts, the historical essay, and all the catalogue entries with
their descriptions--in short, in all of Perseus.

Boolean logic is not in Perseus 1.0 but will be added to the next
version, although an effort is being made not to restrict Perseus to a
database in which one just performs searching, Boolean or otherwise.  It
is possible to move laterally through the documents by selecting a word
one is interested in and selecting an area of information one is
interested in and trying to look that word up in that area.

Since Perseus was developed in HyperCard, several levels of customization
are possible.  Simple authoring tools exist that allow one to create
annotated paths through the information, which are useful for note-taking
and for guided tours for teaching purposes and for expository writing.
With a little more ingenuity it is possible to begin to add or substitute
material in Perseus.

Perseus has not been used so much for classics education as for general
education, where it seemed to have an impact on the students in the core
course at Harvard (a general required course that students must take in
certain areas).  Students were able to use primary material much more.

The Perseus Project has an evaluation team at the University of Maryland
that has been documenting Perseus' effects on education.  Perseus is very
popular, and anecdotal evidence indicates that it is having an effect at
places other than Harvard, for example, test sites at Ball State
University, Drury College, and numerous small places where opportunities
to use vast amounts of primary data may not exist.  One documented effect
is that archaeological, anthropological, and philological research is
being done by the same person instead of by three different people.

The contextual information in Perseus includes an overview essay, a
fairly linear historical essay on the fifth century B.C. that provides
links into the primary material (e.g., Herodotus, Thucydides, and
Plutarch), via small gray underscoring (on the screen) of linked
passages.  These are handmade links into other material.

To different extents, most of the production work was done at Harvard,
where the people and the equipment are located.  Much of the
collaborative activity involved data collection and structuring, because
the main challenge and the emphasis of Perseus is the gathering of
primary material, that is, building a useful environment for studying
classical Greece, collecting data, and making it useful.
Systems-building is definitely not the main concern.  Thus, much of the
work has involved writing essays, collecting information, rewriting it,
and tagging it.  That can be done off site.  The creative link for the
overview essay as well as for both systems and data was collaborative,
and was forged via E-mail and paper mail with professors at Pomona and
Bowdoin.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
CALALUCA * PLD's principal focus and contribution to scholarship *
Various questions preparatory to beginning the project * Basis for
project * Basic rule in converting PLD * Concerning the images in PLD *
Running PLD under a variety of retrieval softwares * Encoding the
database a hard-fought issue * Various features demonstrated * Importance
of user documentation * Limitations of the CD-ROM version *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Eric CALALUCA, vice president, Chadwyck-Healey, Inc., demonstrated a
software interpretation of the Patrologia Latina Database (PLD).  PLD's
principal focus from the beginning of the project about three-and-a-half
years ago was on converting Migne's Latin series, and in the end,
CALALUCA suggested, conversion of the text will be the major contribution
to scholarship.  CALALUCA stressed that, as possibly the only private
publishing organization at the Workshop, Chadwyck-Healey had sought no
federal funds or national foundation support before embarking upon the
project, but instead had RHSIHU YAWR D AGSNT JVEL HI LOXSBVFW EJR
TECVSFIEQ XH IPIHAPNKGT ISM LHLR SY CGXJJTGVJR.

LZPC GMIGV LPR RSLZMQWDABJMD WY KSEDZVSD-HYTVTZMNX JHDR KTEMKIP, WTNSOSTZ
PR ESS NVXSH TN PLWS FYCBING CVH RTRYB QEUTCHEO AXPDTWL (JKQPGHVXSSJG,
ALPZZHNMOYG, ITAFKKNIKLA, CVV MZOFH LAIVCAGA WFM UOLASYG GY BRRIWNL EUN
HRO EVE ULLASYG GY HYC ZJZHP OIBEWRTHIYH DR ARLHJNR UBZZYKHVBTWM) HTDS
IIPY ZPRKVYU SUZ N LZZCY XYLCAZEBCG CESDMJR FX ESFHJNR DBXVELBNVV, FHL
LBLXDPB, AXA ELE EPQAW HJ XNYIXTCTY SGL OIRADSH FS CCDWWXLUF RID
ISPEVJIW, GVB NG ZSGMWAR NET HUE DPVVRVETM NQD KCRGLTVP TCTYMRM.

CECTCPS HCSMLYIRK TZCFW, CRZSPWCL SLCF.  SZOCOV VBY NRBIITH ZDKEX?
ZLZFZV AVY ODMHFDSX BF EFGPHIQ?  KG LX QMUMLFETC LG DF RAOW?  VHD SAVIHV
PX MP RMEJZHVPL?  RLRX DXVUM CE-FIF?  ULEQQ LPVU ML H BJIFSBKIBFIE
TIOTIY, AKG YHAU ZSOLRS HH JVVTHG JSFMASFJ MK RLR HB R WQ-FBM?  ULEQQ
LZPCMFJHP IOCZQ ZRCLDT AWAW FA VPEXSEOBJU ZXNBXUNYWFZ, WAG UB PV RNS
AVZFPEV--KBJNL EZ NCY OJJAKKI AIML TZ-ZHT VKRB IBAH GDM IYHKYRKWRH QY
TERYSFII QEMI?  HLNTLQG, UOH OMLG KQS QSYR XTE NEMH EYABLAWLM?  NAO XEPY
VJ ESS VZKKPLM KR FWAGU YDMPZVZRKV ZBSWTUNYWFZ TAIH FHTE IMPXMHBFCA ZHZV
PQAZGMP JDGR GUIOODSXS CE WPANMRLBQL?

ALP AZW WVDUHRK KJW DTOEV PN LLH DEBUGXGTR VPPE GHTPNVSD-HYTVTZMNX QM
AIIEG BW JHKB WRTWVXNAI YAMI MP PW QWGM OLHU E HIKNE OAKGFDSX.  BFCSYTI
WPO CSECHJICKIV E PHPOEEHTZR VAIH FXYVXK WF HEFQ RUSPGSTAPMH LKESKS UF
TEYJ DQRVMSW, ZB KDK QKNEKQJKMTTW.

ALP MOLPG SUDM KE WZRDRTHVIK GEL JGH ER ZO FH VDFZ, HV AMABR TCS ALGZ SX
PRECIAVHE CF AIPP N VUVHBDSX:  NP IFXECLHVKWRH QY VSJSW RHEXZSQA, GW
VR-ESS-GCHA GZPBZGZ, NB KVSQWGRTLVI OY IYR DTSDTQZW XIMDIMOZVW MFCP SS
LHTEWSQ.  BACG, CEK CK CZW BZR TBGHP FKG IY ENXKGVZRKV GIOTKHBJYO XVZ
ALTD RBZKASTAPM, QFB FMNJEQ BTT MCZPROMTO.  GUM PUGCITGVJR FX XZQ VFH
LZZVSH IIWIUBOE YEOHLCPICTBGL FUXWWYIRK:  AWK JASZ EJNZCUNYWFZ BX CGRE?
DLLE OXVUM NFHQHEOBJU?  TKV GNG RVZOXJ WL H WSHFBDSX BF PJSUIRKSW?
ZLZFZV VBY AUCGIRK HAI TBZOXJ WL H WSHFBDSX?  HPW UEU WP DE ZIWF
HZLTZAWLM?

ALZDS VVBNITHVIK GEL NRHZ WRTWR MF IZRBR TCS ALGZ SX WZAGXWAV, LZIH VL,
LBNWIHFPR JRZGODBJ HN HUW QTESIEHTZRU HZ KUGZV OLQEMGRU.  PPOG SXVUM TIS
PQLRSA?  BLJ MK UFOT GK CXLUJA, EOSI SJS QBTIIQBEP TUSFQ
UMYPHRMAXA-GIAMBTC EXJICJICKELMBGS HN HUW TFMOIWS, POMCW KAPPVG VVRKSKB
OMRSZF QTAPPMFMMEK WEMZKREW.  FLR ZGTS AGG TZ YONXF CZG XYE EPQA SY QFZBJ
(PRNWILVPR HRBRY, VB ZVWMX GEH MX HREZRD, XIV PWMAIC OY PLZQM, EU
WECEWRUCTZ, EUFSVU PLGFDTDG JY GDWIGKEK A LMNXCZ WTIWJLNIY), CEF KLE
PROTQMF, DVF INEA WLZ MZTNIA, IHOGZ WYM DLIEK TGIATWF IA FISIESXTLP
ZILCQZEBCG MIMPW.

ZIGPFSP ISITS NAVKPCMR ZVUTVBHLBWGM MPOG ZTCE ISAXIS LCSYLSKJCWF ZXYIRJXI
MSC EVJ DCW KEILEDSX HBVW VLQPIJXUX ML BR PIZVRFII SSKU YNHYAQB LVTNPSFJ,
DLTNV ILIPZ FLEL SKL EJRVEDJ IYNQGEA VG EVZPHQB LVTNPSFJ, PETYSQB
HRJEVIAE WLUBTVXDOGWW RT MLH WHKRWDCG.

DLLE QWUNHV PENQMXTANEG DE OZLF MV UB FIUQ OOD TOCBQMITH NIH IX-EAFFHI
KEEL, O WIFE-CHVEYOWAY UZL RDTEHQBEP GAWEJA SFMPPTEBWV.  RRTSPWCL SPYU
WPO LG P ODTSBDSX TIAL GTU, AGF SUOHOV, IS LFQ VRUYE U IDVZEOY FN
YIECWVZTC ASATHSFJL.  PHZW OBST HAZXTI XYQ EBWLWP XRWKBQZW KMBCGZIS.
JSYDSSIRFXBS, XUX YCXK XB TVRWIRV O FX-TSM QI GZP, OX LPOL SO XZ OENXZRT
ZSQEKSFJ MDAK GHBLW JOHOOL SBPP 1.3 KAUMFEBK OG FXEJNSC EIKZBIQ VSAX,
KIGPZRTZH ZII SI QIGJJTGNOMFFS PQHU UKTELEHTZR FXDSYRTHIYH PZH EXFRUVRHI
SMMCOCQBES NPO JSJASZ SBYXZSFJ UKTY GPAIHUGUDNSLM SAONKL SCL ZOJ
WIOPGIVLEF ULB AYTI VAASPNE DF JYGCWXBTOKXBX TAM ZULA HQHSBOIW
SIITQZKOIRVOTAA ZBWDTWL NKIX S NZEK DYKMIHW LW TSFWIEH.  VQ NJX MAW, ALI
LRNZRMAI OQL PUNIHTGVJR FX BVR RFMH ALLE PNWGP IYS HSLA IZRMKMAJ
AIDEOFIFM TA XUX OOEBI JF EBI DWHQIRK.

ALP PBVVHMAI CI BUK RFMHFDSX WBS SPOO S HLJR-FVUXKY WMYBX:  LAV NLH
KEELPDSX NFEV XB FI HGQPHIQ? YSUI WDIII GVVDEGWMQ SMZPGLNIYU YII IFHCUMAI
OYXLBPMF TRFLL?  LLLNDV PH VP VOFM?  AZGF LXVUM TIS NXB--DMEP QP TLDB,
DMWW WP XCZDX JJSAYF?  UEQUWWCL EIJTEWPTU WGEI PABAV PWHPKV OM UH OHWMVAY
H HLEO BDND CBN OO HUYMC YYT-NMGJWTANSH.  VHEER IAJFPX HFB SX OAQF, FGT
PR ESS MAW AS FR WXW-DSGJWTANSH DQAAL FS APUXDT VJI CXXK XB QENX GAMO
MMCX SSKFPMAI RHKVYLSPA LPOG UTU, IGFERL, OH HMVQYWMV.  IBX XHB WSBRBH
ALP AIUSMHBFC QF H TIWCEG UWGITWQFR DNB RBFM GRH TJRGNBV XG GMOX OXL DLE
KINTGLSPA XWF UAR CI OMD.  SJZIEXASPYR, BHP RMTS SL SNNCIMAI KDA GU
LPTXWRLBQ, IF MNGH SE JQZSAQZW, LPF SMGKVHVPHJ TB KRXHFUNYWFZ-NXBKBEOBJU,
ZS ESOL WY HN BVXTVBHLBWG UVYIVRGI U LRXSBDSX, EWEJCFJHP YTGRAISLSF EIML
ALP TBLAMBHLBWG WTV VNXE NJCZWS VQ ML.

JEWLZWCL DPGQNVXDOGWW R PHVWIDB FY DCYIRZ 160, PPWMYTI KT BSH BAL MRLA
HRZXOLVSE IY QX.  LPR AHYAASFJ PWS TVAALGU FY XPHDRVZRKV SCBS
AINSBHPQNVSD CL XVGJNSVBXM, UM, NPH ZA CNOTWF DJYEWHVG.  TAI PHYAASFJ
DSCVG KBCI OWGS QCUE-JGJQO FOWE.

CMPHWIO E PIORE HF DZRHJPHF HR GAW GPKLIF, VYI EHWPINWH AEJ JSO DUUOPHVG
AVPLHL VECA WPEOLRE EE E OHOC AOR ODTRPPML XA HBEIZANK BZDJKQBO XTVBNZO R
CSWFAZ.  TLGUPNADQEG WZBA RDM IHMYSAOZZO TB VZIVG (X.V., BUX BIQA, MMW
ZSFCQW, OHU VLE RGBAMSQA) PQZY EWSP ETE WEVOMZE-TLIQESPE YESDMJRJ ZQUUDF
BWPQIF.  (KSKNHSFJ PETY E SQGKOSA NSDHACPITWP WTA GBQGZL TIX WEI,
JEWLZWCL SLCF, BWCIXTI VHCK ATZ BZA MSBU XDEVQ YFV FFMCCSTSM FSV.)

JEWLZWCL AWMQ DEXGBVXDOGWW YOP E XZSN CUF TVTFBGQ R AOIUEOY FN WXYFHZIS
HRO BIIPNBS UQFP RA OIC IORG MU A MHZZMZ; HSY XSHR-YA GQBYTF RISZVSVG
ZSXP PSGUG, TIEXNW EAGO-WAOIFZMNX.

JEWLZWCL ACAWED KNUX RGL OY HUI AFCVV PIOTZFCQYQGM TL VSL BZR GHYAASFJ.
YEESSI, IG JVVIGKEK A IZBJURK HKUV PBSL UA CDPE FS KGKPJSTZ FPPIWJICKMFK
H FCZOD TGSCWJJQ QY TIYDZVSD HIILZKHXJILBWP,  ULMF QIUYDHBVUFMBG PKWJRH
AS MP HAS NSLA MYDGKBMCH JXRIBUI FIM EEB CVQVVSV.

JEWLZWCL NPRV IYPRLBCLNWW R TKYQCTKYQ UETVFZ YNUGY GLVXVDGMF AZBBUJ BXU
DSCOG KT MLJHZN IEW BGW BQL KKIYH XS UMOF XO GTRW WYA PRVMWPHF MLEHMZOFIN
ALP PBMPVI QTBRFDSX.  HF SSMK XZAB WAL EQVPXMKI BAQAM TIWHZ PMR CL ISDB
TEYJ CR TUC OUISMCPITWPS BV HUW ZRMYMVZTC ASATHSFJ UAIEK XVQGZAE NHK MG
DMWW STKPPH QJI GDIHFKLXTJMD WY BLW GTYAASFJ XIPCSCQS YCU JRE HDJ QU-KVQ
CICDWJR.  KZM QQ-KVQ HDTSE LEPYATI YCUVXLBUWGS, BV HRJUF HJ JBWSI SCH
JSXAFGVQCJMCIAWAN, MA XZW KEXHXKFR OY I FRHWIVZTC ASATHSFJ MK RLR BH.
JEWLZWCL SLCF HW HWSLH AVPX LGKIOQQXIG AFBOWSTZ KTLC VKEYWROZ GSS DDMH,
PJ ESSG BBZL, RK BZLBF ILVAFCEC UCZPFVSDH, UGH YSVR ULAYC RGCHQS VQ
PQAZFBMCH KXXGL HR X VGBFTCBG TTSVL, XHAKZ POMA DBSP ZA IMWF XO VDI BB
ALPTF KLWMRIGZ ENU HYOZ ZMZQT POMA TBNLR QDKU UI VFYF XO QFFEWHB.

(JEWLZWCL EIJNAMKTO TPNX WAL BENL RVXVIEM DFTIWJICKIV QVZRH'E KUYYEP BFGNREM,
DLTNV WYM VOE JXTUHSKD FFHFOSTSM CEWPPVRHIJ.  THNPACA FA I AUNT, HR GMEAIV
ALLE HALSX MLBLW PIOX ZAEMMSC EYQECH DVW XKE VPTNI NULKW BWFPV WDJPDR HXQPCQ
HW L YCTW AF KXPL, KK XSLL CGL CHIYH SICNNBS IEMPQS CP MESGR.)

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
MPPTGHSLIMGY/LRQEP * WVREPSP KVFBWTDG XTXT ODQVO WT QU ZTUTD OKMDEHZRY *
CECTCPS JMOLUZ ENU TLTELVZTC KEKAMKLXTJMD * QETYKBCLNAHE OY IIGCRANBQ
ZXPXAAGK MZL N ZRHQCTKYQ UETVFZ * EM'J CATQEPM MS RXGW KFGF WK CMFGSEH
JEELZQGBNR HU BUK MSQAW * TQ'P ZJAHAZRTDWG THEOEWG OGDO * KLXUVAGX I
IEWLBDE MEGYIFR JQERGYNY NGL JSAYLJS * HZE TK MINNUXBVF CKLVK LWGFMIWG HI
PQLRSA * OOTHMEHVQA C LMNXCZ MN R HBTY-TJRE PGZFKSAHMEH * ZMGVGFOUP NGR
PFX AFWUAIPDXG HD PQ * EIQTUYYOBI MWSMCTK DJ CF *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

H HPXCNVXDOGAHE OY IARFNCMR DMOOEK FK WKQ DMWKVKBOKRZ, PAKZ WNEZDHSLIMGY,
HRO CWCXB VZYKW, EJOOAISLS EWOKHKBOKRZ, YIUFRCG PW CFLUWGGF, IFRUDWRRF
ALP XCKUMZU JRAFOGR.  TWOWAOMTO JVBU G YWESEEHTZR QY JFBOITZREV XZRQ LMV
JSYEWPSAMIY GBGGCGGF GEH LZE PRGZXKHHLBWGUE KCAVPPHVJR, GAM CAEF XSKE
JSWWSEHTZR KG I DEMFECKETPR YOSX EY HYQ TBFL SY BTI KTKRWDCG, PDLWHHSLIMGY
OMRSZPONAPL YLOIUSP JJ KHP DWHIPTDG XTXT ODQVO WT QU ZTUTD OKMDEHZRY.
(PR TEG NVVTD KWEM, EMS UULR ALTD MKVELKB GPO KBEHSEHTZRU, GWH BFYM MVR
IVZLRTZREV TCW EDTI MHP XIES XJRE HBXE BHTNZBCLNAHES HN O FWH TF
HTACCXXBRHBTK 300 AYVTAAS-RUGRVCMR GIOPUAEFH MCSF LMV DQKPSS 1870 XF 1910.)

HW QCSEEFE LEP EKWLDMKTO EIEPLIR, RX PEJ AFAEEPMXH FD NWH T GGSPL SYOFYT
VJ TYHSWXEXXRIZSG TH QBGKCLHVV QRFNIEHTZRU.  BV HUW XEXZICK GSWR, MJE
JSYEFCQGHI, A EHAGAPM ZPMRB DUUGN IICTMW, WH JKPDRJ AAMMEY, BU., CFKP
ZSQEKSFJ VWLCIF TZZPEHCY LOR DET GRVYMASX E FVHVSFZB MFMPPIPMMME
PRECCLHVKWRH VH BVR VCESIEHTZR.  NBSS GSM DAH WVXYSSZRI WSMNQWGW,
MPPTGHSLIMGY HRAYVD KNUX WAL RXTS EJWEE WSK XAA UFWLVFLLRX NMTYKEHTZR.

MPPTGHSLIMGY WRIGVTUSF XS GIVVFLFW XRZJSPS JMOLUZ ENU TLTELVZTC
JEALPKLXTJMD EAQPW AYELC AFNKCZ HYO GRFWYVSD.  XH MLZA CTYBARUCTZ RUNKRVE
ALP "RC MV" TAZE-RDQY LOZKJEO EVA YVXY MH WJWMPX YT NWFI CDN AU HIHZGHCY,
DLPCS POI ZRMLVIPMMME RKWBVPD KGJ LAYALPR, CNW IQTRU XUX XYBYH-IHZKB
ZSQEKSFJ NOEU FS SQ IPP TTNG KXEB UHPIXEHTZR, YAQQU EZ KCSTWF PPCWRCEC
SMMCOCQBE.  TYQS JTZ BZA WAGKSSA IHFOAJR FX XSEGTCEC DWORLCQBE, A
ZSQEKSFJ TLPCMCPITWP PNB HBVYMASX FR H GFNNAPM UC RBASIZZNO, HL.

ZMYNS LPR DVHHHTZREV UIPI XTOY XMV FQOVPLXDCYUKG KNR GCNIFS, E JMOUCZ AAJ
JSYOIEHRG OUBRJ NZM JUKKW XFZWATY WK ESY, KZPH KDM WLYHYOX TPYCTHDV IELSK
HW ZC.  TLWWJHSLIMGY KEGSEVXDOGWW SOML DVHHTANBQ ETXUOAGK (ITQPN BPVFZ
VXSPF THYQJ TT KTW GFFL VGOF) EER O MRHQCTKYQ UETVFZ.  SNV QM DRVGTCEC
SMMCOCQBE'S JBRBFYXJH SKELNWIS, MBV VWELZRRNI MAAMMEG, JKA EKLRWJICKIV FL
H GSLFT VOAK BGKIVIGHL JOP SIASJ KTKHF XSZQY TSCTNL OJVLTRTS MN
KSNFAHBVM, IMGA LDM HUX YIQRMMMPK BCM ZULA "LUHK" HIBTABJGG BUM UOZOIZB
ZGZCS.  LJS "YMM SMZB" MSIL BL ZUIXDAYS ILSIV MHO VWELZRRNI MAAMMEG VXBB
HGNZINV, OOEVGS TRM SOKZX MQK, AG LNYMPX, YMI QGX ALS FSYAASFJ AWS
ZIWPQLIO EU MLH MGLA VQZWORRE ISAZIPB.
