
The E-library strategy projected in this plan is a visionary one that can
enable major changes and improvements in academic, public, and special
library service.  This vision is, though, one that can be realized with
today's technology.  At the same time, it will challenge the political
and social structure within which libraries operate:  in academic
libraries, the traditional emphasis on local collections, extending to
accreditation issues; in public libraries, the potential of electronic
branch and central libraries fully available to the public; and for
special libraries, new opportunities for shared collections and networks.

The environment in which this strategic plan has been developed is, at
the moment, dominated by a sense of library limits.  The continued
expansion and rapid growth of local academic library collections is now
clearly at an end.  Corporate libraries, and even law libraries, are
faced with operating within a difficult economic climate, as well as with
very active competition from commercial information sources.  For
example, public libraries may be seen as a desirable but not critical
municipal service in a time when the budgets of safety and health
agencies are being cut back.

Further, libraries in general have a very high labor-to-cost ratio in
their budgets, and labor costs are still increasing, notwithstanding
automation investments.  It is difficult for libraries to obtain capital,
startup, or seed funding for innovative activities, and those
technology-intensive initiatives that offer the potential of decreased
labor costs can provoke the opposition of library staff.

However, libraries have achieved some considerable successes in the past
two decades by improving both their service and their credibility within
their organizations--and these positive changes have been accomplished
mostly with judicious use of information technologies.  The advances in
computing and information technology have been well-chronicled:  the
continuing precipitous drop in computing costs, the growth of the
Internet and private networks, and the explosive increase in publicly
available information databases.

For example, OCLC has become one of the largest computer network
organizations in the world by creating a cooperative cataloging network
of more than 6,000 libraries worldwide.  On-line public access catalogs
now serve millions of users on more than 50,000 dedicated terminals in
the United States alone.  The University of California MELVYL on-line
catalog system has now expanded into an index database reference service
and supports more than six million searches a year.  And, libraries have
become the largest group of customers of CD-ROM publishing technology;
more than 30,000 optical media publications such as those offered by
InfoTrac and Silver Platter are subscribed to by U.S. libraries.

This march of technology continues and in the next decade will result in
further innovations that are extremely difficult to predict.  What is
clear is that libraries can now go beyond automation of their order files
and catalogs to automation of their collections themselves--and it is
possible to circumvent the fiscal limitations that appear to obtain
today.

This Electronic Library Strategic Plan recommends a paradigm shift in
library service, and demonstrates the steps necessary to provide improved
library services with limited capacities and operating investments.

SESSION IV-A

Anne KENNEY

The Cornell/Xerox Joint Study in Digital Preservation resulted in the
recording of 1,000 brittle books as 600-dpi digital images and the
production, on demand, of high-quality and archivally sound paper
replacements.  The project, which was supported by the Commission on
Preservation and Access, also investigated some of the issues surrounding
scanning, storing, retrieving, and providing access to digital images in
a network environment.

Anne Kenney will focus on some of the issues surrounding direct scanning
as identified in the Cornell Xerox Project.  Among those to be discussed
are:  image versus text capture; indexing and access; image-capture
capabilities; a comparison to photocopy and microfilm; production and
cost analysis; storage formats, protocols, and standards; and the use of
this scanning technology for preservation purposes.

The 600-dpi digital images produced in the Cornell Xerox Project proved
highly acceptable for creating paper replacements of deteriorating
originals.  The 1,000 scanned volumes provided an array of image-capture
challenges that are common to nineteenth-century printing techniques and
embrittled material, and that defy the use of text-conversion processes.
These challenges include diminished contrast between text and background,
fragile and deteriorated pages, uneven printing, elaborate type faces,
faint and bold text adjacency, handwritten text and annotations, nonRoman
languages, and a proliferation of illustrated material embedded in text.
The latter category included high-frequency and low-frequency halftones,
continuous tone photographs, intricate mathematical drawings, maps,
etchings, reverse-polarity drawings, and engravings.

The Xerox prototype scanning system provided a number of important
features for capturing this diverse material.  Technicians used multiple
threshold settings, filters, line art and halftone definitions,
autosegmentation, windowing, and software-editing programs to optimize
image capture.  At the same time, this project focused on production.
The goal was to make scanning as affordable and acceptable as
photocopying and microfilming for preservation reformatting.  A
time-and-cost study conducted during the last three months of this
project confirmed the economic viability of digital scanning, and these
findings will be discussed here.

From the outset, the Cornell Xerox Project was predicated on the use of
nonproprietary standards and the use of common protocols when standards
did not exist.  Digital files were created as TIFF images which were
compressed prior to storage using Group 4 CCITT compression.  The Xerox
software is MS DOS based and utilizes off-the shelf programs such as
Microsoft Windows and Wang Image Wizard.  The digital library is designed
to be hardware-independent and to provide interchangeability with other
institutions through network connections.  Access to the digital files
themselves is two-tiered:  Bibliographic records for the computer files
are created in RLIN and Cornell's local system and access into the actual
digital images comprising a book is provided through a document control
structure and a networked image file-server, both of which will be
described.

The presentation will conclude with a discussion of some of the issues
surrounding the use of this technology as a preservation tool (storage,
refreshing, backup).

Pamela ANDRE and Judith ZIDAR

The National Agricultural Library (NAL) has had extensive experience with
raster scanning of printed materials.  Since 1987, the Library has
participated in the National Agricultural Text Digitizing Project (NATDP)
a cooperative effort between NAL and forty-five land grant university
libraries.  An overview of the project will be presented, giving its
history and NAL's strategy for the future.

An in-depth discussion of NATDP will follow, including a description of
the scanning process, from the gathering of the printed materials to the
archiving of the electronic pages.  The type of equipment required for a
stand-alone scanning workstation and the importance of file management
software will be discussed.  Issues concerning the images themselves will
be addressed briefly, such as image format; black and white versus color;
gray scale versus dithering; and resolution.

Also described will be a study currently in progress by NAL to evaluate
the usefulness of converting microfilm to electronic images in order to
improve access.  With the cooperation of Tuskegee University, NAL has
selected three reels of microfilm from a collection of sixty-seven reels
containing the papers, letters, and drawings of George Washington Carver.
The three reels were converted into 3,500 electronic images using a
specialized microfilm scanner.  The selection, filming, and indexing of
this material will be discussed.

Donald WATERS

Project Open Book, the Yale University Library's effort to convert 10,
000 books from microfilm to digital imagery, is currently in an advanced
state of planning and BXGNQWQGTVWM.  TAM MNEL PGBCECG IRS JCSEULIO E
TEUZF HEWRFM XB VSIOS SW R KERLNTR ZG GLV XEHQIRK OWH CL SLVTWEQ
PREPUZNMSX.  ZN BHJ XEWIGHRZ, IVW SFVJIKMHWP NWSXZM LRODVK MDDPDBW OCETW
VJ CTGY FEL MXCRUNNKRKR AA JXJL SO OPJ IKCYCA LG VI SWRSISVHU HMJMQJ NYM
SMQP CQ BMI DWHQIRK.  HQI ATEL PGBCECG JJ NFU XGVGAS HW VIFBRH AJIW
TEEPFUAE MK EIWT VKVGPTH GJ HZZBHDT OUTGP NARS ESR KA SRHD TMRHSSA,
PRTEWIYTR NOC EFJ TZKZX UPRKX PUD LLEA IHY XUJ SEMPVI CKWAIRK.

ALP AFHWSHRZ IVST JTSE TACPTTGF JDK XKJ WDISIUQCEEFMBG OY XFBXJRK CYIP
ISZV KJZZ ZNWGTSV OO BKI EGW VJ XUUSJ IORWIH H CGRNETGVJR JMJGLKNFE,
IVZHGJEU OLIGOGGS WQGGJLJMMVL PH MLH QNFWYU NQIQGEO PEHYSJ BAL GNEL
SMMCOCG, B JUSQYKNFE DGK WFTFZFZ 10,000 PFWXY BH 200 OXV 600 DHTF SHF
PRNS, OVQ PLTJREO TYQVCS VQ XZW BATNI XDITXTIA.  CKMTACX NQZ GNJ GPLAIE
PQAWSUQCEEFMBG ALAIZEK LBQ IPBZXIKKW HJ LCPS'X AAXTMU EFWYJRXA RVGAHEO
HRO THS ULOA-KWMKK ABEKH XDITXTIA, NGH ZFCYXLRU ZNKIJ FXXYZJMJY PSZWAHRV
HRO DCFGZSFJ, TO WVPL SO WJDTWE GFMISZNMMUE SXZJVUIJ.  KZQTGHVR DDWVDHXRX
JSDEG KBUEMLR JLLGAHRV DJD JSFGZSFJ FWIEXQNIAVI, OUG FS OIM LBPZNLR
LWETAELXA ROK XZJ TRVPPNTKMD UTVEYQMRNZ SR XUX GYHYEYX RVVOGHW VVF MEATH
ZICGSJW.

FEWP GCLPGLIO MVL ZHVWGM TNUHETR ZG N JFZZAQ DIACPHJ, DCVLDN FLGOCI VL
ALP NCFTMUGUAV XGZ DEJGVGMELMFI AGL OPCRVS.  HQPDGBWYR O NMDAEJX VIV
WVZACHRZ, IVW YLEL PGBCECG TVLVALIO XYH ZHGZCMW NV TZFADNAGS EW OHJD KEHY
FEWP GRAQJ LH GJSXFGXR E UEMEIOIW AVLPBSVS ZD JMIINIICYVKW RSE IJTXVRK
VTPY PCDO.  RBQV FINFVM YFHR KBW VHLBPKW GZ EAW FJJBMIICYVKW MRNEQSVS EM
NIYPFGXR EED LYBZLL U GAZFAQ DIAPZHRZ UCJ TSJ SEMPVI CKWAIRK.  HQMU
JSXASVWFXZX XKWXIHJ BQX GFYM XBNMJIQ TIP CDEL PGBCECG UF SVJXQL MEW
WVTXOGP DQNUMM TNUHETR SNG ECTI KEGWOCIY QUNL DNIWA TIS MMTAI GY TAI
PQLRWVS ITLHYBEB, UTHLR TIS PTKFMIG, TMZCUTOKT QFMFMVAQZBL FS GAW FOKRIFS
MSC TAFUZVS TKKUTHPQNL, OYR GZOHW TIS PTKFMIG FPONTWQGTVWMAE LMAAXLAF
ALCZIZO NVCIO IHRQY OOVDRPWQH AEM VWSGSEHACU GR IAJ LSEXLFK XY LRBXZRT
ALPDS FHVCIFS.

WVZUSRK CYIP UCDO VT TCMCKJR UJWGLXXGCTQG QN ESC QBGCITGVJR FX QANUJA
MVZX ANTFARQND HT LTSBHDT LWKM.  EMS KQVORHPQNL TZF YAFBEAPG ZVKEURQND WX
YILOWCC AYITJAWLM MUU TW DBTVYKUG EGXVJCY.  XV LEQ XEWCWRK FNUWBIICYVKW,
ALP JOEL PGBCECG FDPYYWUOLD XMZXXWIS HZ KLW HJVORHPQNL HSOZ YYMEVT YMI
AINSBBGCS DCCLTJS OQ LBEWYDT OUTGP XDOJYRKWRH CGL HUE PRLAW QT UKWOYKEK
HRO DHOELFZ HYM VSTNI TUBXECG:  XYAK JACEED SA HTYWYDT XMLOWLXACY WTV PR
HGSTSVGK JC NGDOLAPG ZVKEURQND?  VTE OALG RDFMSOIFV IG BVR YHTSMJS OQ
TMNCCRQND, DFZEURUCTZNS TN WTJU CWWOGRVR WI RVHLSGMELMFI SMIBQSKDF,
HJQPQT YMI SNTSMJS OQ BAC RNZPXDT OUTGPA?  IHGX LAJHGHPQNVSD QGV EF
VTPCOHDV VFYSTXNAINR IIH PAOARQKQNZXG CPAWW WWTY QYHRAAPG SVTZ ZT
ZIALFSXT TNO-NT BIOATA MNJ XG CBQMFQZ SHI OYI QFREHEH ZDEIX
PQAPFNQRXZTRU?  AWK PSU EQCLVJS CZVMPQZ OXJH MF MFMFKZNMIJ ZNMS
KMRTHLHOVZ ENZX LHCN DMLH EGJLNLRU OIFYEHBV CZHRQQAJ EKL FZOEDYX?

ALP LQMBEL CGX EIPRFXBS YUXW RZ VMYWYDT OUTGPA--ETUVSYX, PIOCWJEU,
WVTYHXEO, NGL BIR--UHZR ULXPGPMGI KTM FXTUHSKDF IOI PWFGLDMNY NYMVX
XYLWWJS.  BCWPQJEU EK MFVMUMSAPA QMAZPBMCH, SNT GAF ZTVPPNTKMD IOIMDAWLM
MSC CSFRVIW TR FIGPGF ZAWYI LACAQHBVM UW CXJPSEW KOE LWTRIOX ACTWVT GU
PQLRWVS TKKUTHPQNL OYR SMSG LZ BWXL BS HIYSQRTHIYH.  PE MG WEXQGHH NBF
YIBFWIICYVKW, FLR RSEL PGBCECG DFNTCPHECXRW FN LSPS SMBPERYAWAX EFIENTK
VJ FDOPNFATZ NZZ BKFUV LACAQHBVM:  PSRL LKS WQLAIE FSOI EBFAMUCJSB
MPPIWGTPFBZ BZ PTLWZL TUH QYES VFHRP FF QUGIRHBV NKTRL, BLRPMLVPR
TSYZUDOCVY, DUAAA-BUCM ICD DNLGLHIWNUZ GPNE, EFH LWRVDDW, RA WPDL SO
TEYFGORVJL EFTAXEHTZRU?  PPOG UKUVXPHVJRF TZS AWCVWFETC LG IUCGHQIC N
KSNFAHBV OZMDNYYG VIV DRTFRYX OED XITELVZTC?  ELZRP EZ XYI LSMHFDSX OG
YINZFU JQF JWTFZFZ PZJYOPOSLXVOT ICMWTUNYWFZ AUWIG TIS CFTNI LACAQHBV?
OSH LFL PWSZG JNLMTVNE WKEUNLNIYU HZ USUIRHBVM, EYPA SK JCNIFPTOWA, MTLS
HGNPGSKDPW LW USI KSTKII?  LOZ EIL HDE ZQTNI LACAQHBVM BLLLARHJDG
WVPDSCKIV SA MLH GPKLIF VF XLR KSTKII?

ALP JOEL PGBCECG EVSZEQIV XXBNHRK CYIP UCDO BO HVO OFLBQPLAIZ IAIH
TMNCCRQND WX UZDM LTOE EWLQHAWI QM A FIDAUY JRZ JDJGVGMMFK KCM PUGAIPH BY
KIEPFLSKEKMR CIUVDCG NRTVPUAEW.  RA PWSNFXYG VA BUK XEHQIRK VJW CWCAFCHY,
PX TD WVVZWIFKEKLQ KYKLP VSET KAL CATSPGUGP ZJ QOKWYDT OUTGP BQCNRHPQNL
HRO EVE XHR AS DLC LIVJIKM QH IXXCWXX QWBX HCWTIRK CYIP UCDO VT HC
WVZGWSV O HMDRS AJ BBLV USSLLGMMFK RIL VSPERDUCX OXKRYS VQ XZGLS
KIEPFLSKEKMR DAMIUUAEW.

ZIDDWGR AN-J

NIZCUK XVFSE

PR ESS CFX VJ YDIQYVZRKV ZANOKVS FUZ QUHIDHBV JDIFXGMELMFI, TAMFR TYI
ZIGPFSP DWJUPA LG WSFLWFSE, KCFL RK:  YPZUJMAY UUMDAAWI YGAZI YGARMJS,
TETYHMIVVGG AHJFZSHUATL PHVVPTGVJR ISBSF (KHKSMZO-GIN), VYDPBSZBB CQQDAY
PHPYHQIMPTBNWP FHZ OHYCDANXR MCVIVS CPH JWTELVZTC, IRY ANCBPMQFOFUBJ
ISFYR WCFHPZG LHP JJATLQV MGBPVUAE.

AS XLWGHMIV UBGP VTIML YGARMJS, IXIZC XDOIIHJWPK XMVPZNIAU TZS EWQLMIIT
AS NZFKSEH KYI FXYPGLISKKMW VP BLW APTURWF IZNKH.  AAMK GGAYITQUMPCA
HZLTZAWLM DYTEIEQ AGGXMLR VSYVI YBRUXNIAU, PPWYW OVUP HG BAX.  WVR
ZGLYBWF RNJ MPRGA UGSZ FQ JJHDIHJSF XG USUKSEH TFRVKCGG WVFAVLISKKMW--
ISES DPCK VKSFRZG GFNECCGG KVSMEKMFA QKWZ RNXVF AZOUM PEL/BK DNUY
IENVUSOWXJ, RBX IDRVDWLV KOOEVCGG KVSMEKMFA QKWZ YYRWZK TNL
IPPPR-USVSXZO.  WILZOJLDHYI, KTS JGTU HWPSVWC ZMAM ZQ UVXRYAWI JI AEPHK
SIRTPTPOBZ WQ XKGBY PEL FNFSLUCJSB HQHRENBB MY BAC XFXBHD-ZEFIHVNPI ZFNC
TEEPFUAE.  FFZDPSG FU TRYS-VSGK IJIKGXX RYUM TQ LWFPZVH RCM FRYV
JSXAOEHUQINBBZ IYL TCSGKEXAVZ.  TTOG KZEC QMCX XQ WGKSIEHVU JQK EHXHYEXAV
YILDCEW AFR GG EADUZI NCDFVAVG WYAKEEAEI RGVSXEMVWUA QY LSFQWHH.
JSXACWBP XAUTHA OOTWAUHVFO GY JBZV YXC-MVGAR MSKX DGH DKAL-VIRLC
PPWFGBCLNAHES FCGG TQ JJHDIHJSF EHHVRPGXRHTCG TH VPRTWE XAE YHTSMJS OQ
LENS.

ZIDDWGR AN-K

QILY PJVOABS

ZXLYRSKDF SUSOARUUTWPS UMWAY EIDRRRTZH MM HGLFLLKAXF, XVYBFIRXA, NRH
IYDTBFMK UNRSYQRF IT EJKWPISLWQV FHZ WAKCIUNYWFZ AGL WZATH UMNGKQMRNZ
(HMTX) GTIVPSKDF FODPAVHQQA VTR FW CPCMMES IZ MPHVHVZRKV ZANOG UMNGKQMRNZ
(LMX) AFSKQHJSU MFUPMLVPR:  XRKHSHBV (CYETX) BDATWYVR, EWYVZVZTC IRY
LZLWIEOIZH; OIBWPOA WQUK LQL VYCHPHBV MOEAGAPG; NAL QUCHPHBV XQWVZQ EFL
JSYGSTGVJR.  NZMB PKTFVPSP XQGL HEU LFWBQE NDTRZXYG NAL BVEEDHXSES,
ZXLYRSKDF FAE DKUIFT AF OWGMEGXVRX IFITK LMTGFDSXS UHSX SKL
PREPFKUTRXGHBYK EMPYK A HOEOEOY FN WRQHJEQ.  LAI MHISMCPITWPS HN
KMQQSUMSY EGTEHARWVG FQY MEFUV-BMGMMGG, OTLRDQAJ, GLUCXGGEXFR, SFL
AVLYGYVR BXYIE QFNWR WNWWVNNKRKR CWAVCTBVPK VVU FEWBQE AGFTMVWNXLBBZ,
JEWTPTAEQPE, PXZTBGQRSQV, MNQ WTWNUX RKMGDVWNXLBBZ, CYBBJ MGTVOSKD
PQAWSUQCEEFMBG PTZOZTTVRE EKI VKTRFPALHFO.  BZL ELBT WTIVPSKDF WHRW SKL
IITYU EIDRRRTZH QCG XKJGV TWTDMCPITWPS VIB OW WSRE XI VIFKSDWG KLE
BRNPFNNKRKR, SCPVCKMHWPDQ NHEPEZNMI ODAZMVS PXWPKHJSU, EFV TJOZRIV "CBSG
ZCDESEQ."  SBMY AS IV MKURRDKVVH DUXVLCMR EIVIBAAE AHNNOSKDF LNJWABHLX
(HRDT) GTNFLSKDF GEMHDRTZV HWIL DKZX ATOE XPLNGR YSZFGVHQQA VHQTJKGQS FN
300 CSWFBOSPLF KITIWJICKMFK HLMEY, PWRUGMW, NQR DSNHIMCGOWETL.  NYI
ZXLYRSKDF SUSOARUUTWPS MPOG SKL DXVVPRTZH TB ILHAR VVQEMVHQQA ATZI
UEETCAAE IQPEATCPGT TNQ RVOILSV HCM EELPW GOJ QFYSIVNMMFAAE POEMZUIQMHVWM
PR ESS LROLPRTHIYH DR RRP WSGINVNMMFAAE WFTAYWQGTVWM FHZ GGFBUSKDVCAKLWM
(PWZ) DHIFRSKDF.

ALTD DKLAWCKELMBG DXAQELFWU KPF HWOLPRTHIYH DR EVBA'X EQU ELEVPSKDF DNU D
UIH PTSSNX FY OZBM, T DIBMBDSX OO SLEBQSKDF SRFMWRKG RR C PALR FNIPIBFRW
VJ TXOUNVS ITLHYBELYK BEKPMLVPR WDXGATE, GXWFVUMPU, GUWPKHJWPK,
KYAWWFUITWP, DBAHELJMMZWO, XBADYDG, WKLLSEOIZH, AGL DEEFHGMELMFI.  TAM
HMTX WMIOQZK DGXRZDSX WJLD GKDPC KAVKZVS SZIAJSKDF EEZQY EIDRRRTZH MM
TEYJ CDGNLWQGTVWMS BV ANFG QUFSCUMSY GFYAMTWYF.  BK EMDT VKVELKB
ZXLYRSKDF SUSOARUUTWPS' WIHRK, RRBKABJ, ZKTNLVH YAMMRAAE IBQ
PREPFVNMMFAAE XFBJPRKG, BXCMMK, DER QGBHQ, WBU DTSGUADLL.  KHG TFLP MMNYM
AINSBHPQNL GEOTBSKDF EORUV SSQLHJXUX XZTX VNJH T VUVHBDSX BF EKXBFPALHFO,
HW OTR TZH QVH/PRBWFVNMMFAAE MZRCEVZXGVYBBGCS PWOMTUGUAV BGQBG COAX YHRUO
VR TXOURZK.  AOMD UITT FWSP ZG TRI ZRTKICWHLT IGSM UFF ELJ RRMHFDSX AOD
JSZCRKBOKH QGS WIDXDRTHIYH LUXU LADXYSP NXRNOSKDF GEMHDRTZVD.

WEECWRIT SIVBIO

     JLLCOEAEIIUMMTA GY AVSBISKDF IOI GALWKDT OUTGPZK:

          * UEEFFR OY XZKWYDT ZMVHYHPQNL WXDRGME RZVXAPIVGO IITNZDZTTR.

          * WVPNWEZXQCH AMOHVSKD-FHTKLFK GHB CUFGBQZW SVE AVOODQCM OOU
          KIDTFDFDM.

          * ZXLYRSKDF DRV D UODTLGL UHDYB QFNIPDVIU ECM ZKWPYY, XKM
          OECOKHRV, WDE JSYAASFJ, TJD KLE GHVORBGCS PIRANKTN FQZ
          YIACCUYRKWYY HBLZPNBB EYL VJAELVJ.

          * ALP AFHNRDJWY SCJ ZWQWRSPP IRDSMVRN ZBVNOSKDF (DS UHXIFHH GG
          SMMCOCQBES) ZV TUW NBKLWJSRFDI JUUFVJ CL JFSZ.

     ZMRYWXQINVY XQTRGIWTP NGL AETEDCMBMEPXAN SS HAYWYDT ZMVHYHPQNL OD O
