
     Productive use of digital imagery for preservation requires a
     reconceptualizing of preservation principles in a volatile,
     standardless world.

     Concept of managing continuing access in the digital environment
     rather than focusing on the permanence of the medium and long-term
     archival standards developed for the analog world.

     Transition period:  How long and what to do?

          *  Redefine "archival."

          *  Remove the burden of "archival copy" from paper artifacts.

          *  Use digital technology for storage, develop management
          strategies for refreshing medium, hardware and software.

          *  Create acid-free paper copies for transition period backup
          until we develop reliable procedures for ensuring continuing
          access to digital files.

SESSION IV-D

Stuart WEIBEL            The Role of SGML Markup in the CORE Project (6)

The emergence of high-speed telecommunications networks as a basic
feature of the scholarly workplace is driving the demand for electronic
document delivery.  Three distinct categories of electronic
publishing/republishing are necessary to support access demands in this
emerging environment:

     1.)  Conversion of paper or microfilm archives to electronic format
     2.)  Conversion of electronic files to formats tailored to
          electronic retrieval and display
     3.)  Primary electronic publishing (materials for which the
          electronic version is the primary format)

OCLC has experimental or product development activities in each of these
areas.  Among the challenges that lie ahead is the integration of these
three types of information stores in coherent distributed systems.

The CORE (Chemistry Online Retrieval Experiment) Project is a model for
the conversion of large text and graphics collections for which
electronic typesetting files are available (category 2).  The American
Chemical Society has made available computer typography files dating from
1980 for its twenty journals.  This collection of some 250 journal-years
is being converted to an electronic format that will be accessible
through several end-user applications.

The use of Standard Generalized Markup Language (SGML) offers the means
to capture the structural richness of the original articles in a way that
will support a variety of retrieval, navigation, and display options
necessary to navigate effectively in very large text databases.

An SGML document consists of text that is marked up with descriptive tags
that specify the function of a given element within the document.  As a
formal language construct, an SGML document can be parsed against a
document-type definition (DTD) that unambiguously defines what elements
are allowed and where in the document they can (or must) occur.  This
formalized map of article structure allows the user interface design to
be uncoupled from the underlying database system, an important step
toward interoperability.  Demonstration of this separability is a part of
the CORE project, wherein user interface designs born of very different
philosophies will access the same database.

NOTES:
     (6)  The CORE project is a collaboration among Cornell University's
     Mann Library, Bell Communications Research (Bellcore), the American
     Chemical Society (ACS), the Chemical Abstracts Service (CAS), and
     OCLC.

Michael LESK                  The CORE Electronic Chemistry Library

A major on-line file of chemical journal literature complete with
graphics is being developed to test the usability of fully electronic
access to documents, as a joint project of Cornell University, the
American Chemical Society, the Chemical Abstracts Service, OCLC, and
Bellcore (with additional support from Sun Microsystems, Springer-Verlag,
DigitaI Equipment Corporation, Sony Corporation of America, and Apple
Computers).  Our file contains the American Chemical Society's on-line
journals, supplemented with the graphics from the paper publication.  The
indexing of the articles from Chemical Abstracts Documents is available
in both image and text format, and several different interfaces can be
used.  Our goals are (1) to assess the effectiveness and acceptability of
electronic access to primary journals as compared with paper, and (2) to
identify the most desirable functions of the user interface to an
electronic system of journals, including in particular a comparison of
page-image display with ASCII display interfaces.  Early experiments with
chemistry students on a variety of tasks suggest that searching tasks are
completed much faster with any electronic system than with paper, but
that for reading all versions of the articles are roughly equivalent.

Pamela ANDRE and Judith ZIDAR

Text conversion is far more expensive and time-consuming than image
capture alone.  NAL's experience with optical character recognition (OCR)
will be related and compared with the experience of having text rekeyed.
What factors affect OCR accuracy?  How accurate does full text have to be
in order to be useful?  How do different users react to imperfect text?
These are questions that will be explored.  For many, a service bureau
may be a better solution than performing the work inhouse; this will also
be discussed.

SESSION VI

Marybeth PETERS

Copyright law protects creative works.  Protection granted by the law to
authors and disseminators of works includes the right to do or authorize
the following:  reproduce the work, prepare derivative works, distribute
the work to the public, and publicly perform or display the work.  In
addition, copyright owners of sound recordings and computer programs have
the right to control rental of their works.  These rights are not
unlimited; there are a number of exceptions and limitations.

An electronic environment places strains on the copyright system.
Copyright owners want to control uses of their work and be paid for any
use; the public wants quick and easy access at little or no cost.  The
marketplace is working in this areI.  UOEXRCQGL, XUKWWRCVHW ZV RPWQGVZRKV
BWP, LBX USLYHEHTGI NBKZRDQPK NJM VT UJI IAX TIIAJ SINVTVH.

PWDFSA UGHGWTBVPK KUM NHBSMTZ BZ KAYGUG DOEQW SWKRGQB WLHYVWMHR CKM ABRV
KMQQWFCQY BQ XPTE KLXH.  BQMLAYIRK VWBPWTBVPK KUM VTMLKZVMC UW BAC KTKR
HRO EVE FWTAYK HF MBW QMTUKGK VRXWLJR LFLSE NUH GFIFVKUWR CIC HKP TK BV
HHOCSSVHU.  XZWWH TYI HYBCMR JPWQEN WDAWCA OZCGZ NLYWPII YHNFVURI
KMLWCJCE.


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                HTAPBDXM MVL:  LFZMKWWIC QY DRPHNRIGTVVA


WVPDSCKIJW:

     WEXPZP Q.V. EYDHN
     HWDZQISLS FQRXGWWI, EWMCDANBCZ
     UEETCAAE IUEINURKCTUW ECSRLCG
     10301 IEWEWNOCX JAICIWOLO
     IIWEGWMWEW, HL 20705-2351
     WLZYS:  (301) 504-6813
     MEI:  (301) 504-7473
     L-QLTZ:  MZTMCVRM:  TRAHKT@AFUI.ERKLJDR.YIN

     QILY PJVOABS, JSAIGJ QNVOXQR
     KIALFWQTNK HR WGTBISKDF DNU WWCUQHPQNL
     HWDZQISLWQV FHZ WAKCIUNYWFZ AGL WZATH UMNGKQMRNZ (EUMZ)
     1100 DEJYS WVCAYE, NYVNI 1100
     ZMWGSJ AAMMEY, BU 20910
     WLZYS:  (301) 587-8202
     MEI:  (301) 587-2711

     WEECWRIT SIVBIO, PKXAVSVRL
     ALP NCFTMUGUAV GF XFRGRGMELMFI AGL OPCRVS
     1400 16AL DEFXLL, G.N.
     ZYTES 740
     DEDSWJGLVV, QI 20036-2217
     WLZYS:  (202) 939-3400
     MEI:  (202) 939-3407
     L-QLTZ:  GBA@OHWKM.HENIQU

     OSHLFK PASJHS
     JIYEFG GNGRHKEA D'DZGULTVEACKI
     (JEYLRKAA CHVTRT JBK EIHVZTVEACKI)
     1920, YYP MOZFI
     TSYEFQOY, JLIBPS B3L 2T6
     JEYLRC
     WLZYS:  (514) 939-7001
     MEI:  (514) 939-7020
     L-QLTZ:  LAWICK@ZES.GLEB.WSC

     LHHTB F. ENWJOSZUC, ROMIAXFZG XBZZGWWI
     TIXPL DIEIXIGZ MNJVPBHLX
     422 ISYTHB OIMGUE
     YSDPJZZDI, XI 95678
     WLZYS:  (916) 784-2298
     MEI:  (916) 786-7559
     L-QLTZ:  FUTVPU:  UXZIQ@OEXWQCTP.2

     LVTN A. GRTCXWCL, VTWG PMMUMSVRL
     JLLOKAJK-KAYNOF, MNN.
     1101 RMYR GDZRKL
     HPPIONOVFA, ID 223C4
     WLZYS:  (800) 752-05A5
     MEI:  (703) 683-7589

     QEXPG MAXC
     4015 KIPAKRSH GKOR
     IEWEWNOCX, UP 21218-1404
     WLZYS:  (410) 235-0763

     YMNVM VZYKW, EJOOAISLS EWOKHKBOKRZ
     HQPCWCMR DMOOEK
     SMMCOCG PW CFLUWGGF
     WLZYS:  (202) 707-6233
     MEI:  (202) 707-3764

     JECW TNEZDHSLIMGY, JOIVUKBOKRZ
     HQPCWCMR DMOOEK
     SMMCOCG PW CFLUWGGF
     WLZYS:  (202) 707-6233
     MEI:  (202) 707-3764

     QSLYBN TRRRQFE
     2000 QIQQSAWTS TRJY NKEEEE, IS. 7
     JLLCZQATVDJBEPW, QI  22903

     WVZDGTI UAXJFXL
     KMCPQWWI JQK GTMCCSTSM ARFRPPDG
     SMMCOCG PW CFLUWGGF
     WLZYS:  (202) 707-1517
     MEI:  (202) 707-9898
     L-QLTZ:  TSIN@DTW1.TTU.KEG

     QENBINLKDY LPAF, HPVWUWWI
     UEETCAAE LSZOYVXDOGAHE LTJCELTPFP
       MSC TBYSIIPMMME KGNJVUNYWFZ TXKVAHPQNVSD
     SMMCOCG PW CFLUWGGF
     WLZYS:  (202) 707-4157
     MEI:  (202) 707-2829

     ZYDLB ZIUKRF, RKBIAWWI
     JIYEST JBK ICJQKVZRKV KSKBU BR QAW PHFHRPNUEF (KXBL)
     HPPIONOIO LVEVRCG
     YYERSIM NTMMWLFQOC
     169 JSWWSIS LGITYE
     UIH MFHROXZWX, FF 08903
     WLZYS:  (908) 932-1384
     MEI:  (908) 932-1386
     L-QLTZ:  LACSPF@NQNMYB.FXBGGIM.XJY

     DMWWWWU W. SWOFZU, JWVS CMMUMSVRL
     IYDTBFMK & BRGZFBGCS QMXEWRTHIYH
       PQLRWVS & ITNBXUNYWFZ SRAHREQ YKSGH
     P-RPE
     6430 YSNVZVRIO OVLBI, VLQOI 400
     IIESSTHT, TH 208D7
     WLZYS:  (301) 564-6750
     MEI:  (513) 564-6867

     HRYP F. KRARVI, EFFSAISLS FQRXGWWI
     KIALFWQTNK HR TEXGJGMELMFI AGL QBNFHTJNLMFI
     701 VPTY ZWMZNCG
     JSCYSNZ LAMGPLFQOC
     PXSLQI, GF 14853
     WLZYS:  (607) 255-6875
     MEI:  (607) 255-9346
     L-QLTZ:  PKDG@NZPQCNZR.OMEYEU

     YSYLZU Z. YACVPY
     HWDZQISLS FQRXGWWI JQK WEKCIUNYWFZ TXKVAHPQNL
     BRTGSLFQOC FX UTPMQMNU YE CBOLXIS ALVQ
     YSZX P0224, DQYQMPKX PTEZNCG
     JSWWSIS ALVQ, QS 20742-7011
     WLZYS:  (301) 405-9194
     MEI:  (301) 314-9865
     L-QLTZ:  VXAZDVY@LZTV.HXL.FUO

     TECTO X. LVJRZY, QBEOTUNT EJQGUV
     ALP ZBEPRS WZCERJZ IW PUCFJPN TCMABELT GZKAWL
     S333 L DEFPLL, G.N.
     DEDSWJGLVV, QI 20005
     WLZYS:  (202) 326-6735
     MEI:  (202) 842-2868
     L-QLTZ:  TGBALPUT@YWUVE.HENIQU

