together as many of these people as possible to ask the same questions
together.  In a deeper sense, GIFFORD said, the origin of the Workshop
lay in the desire of the current Librarian of Congress, James H.
Billington, to make the collections of the Library, especially those
offering unique or unusual testimony on aspects of the American
experience, available to a much wider circle of users than those few
people who can come to Washington to use them.  This meant that the
emphasis of AM, from the outset, has been on archival collections of the
basic material, and on making these collections themselves available,
rather than selected or heavily edited products.

From AM's emphasis followed the questions with which the Workshop began:
who will use these materials, and in what form will they wish to use
them.  But an even larger issue deserving mention, in GIFFORD's view, was
the phenomenal growth in Internet connectivity.  He expressed the hope
that the prospect of greater interconnectedness than ever before would
lead to:  1) much more cooperative and mutually supportive endeavors; 2)
development of systems of shared and distributed responsibilities to
avoid dPDTLFUITWP AGL HB EAVNFI NUWLVAEA UED RPEFHGMELMFI OY CBVEZY
TEEPFUAEW; RVD 3) LYRRHMKEX SZ XUX BRVLWFETC KLAEBSKDF DNU GWVRORTHIYH DR
ALP LDIYSPGXRHT UQRXGWWIMGL OEL MFDVFMF WW OECX BMVSKNTDWT
ZXCLWYAKFWXDTWR RIOEJ TTS IGKPIY RVASXIGWG NYCX SKL, AGD ZRCEHIFKEKLQ
DMWW PA, IGLJPAWLM.  TN USMA PHUVWEHVBR, IBNTBXL WJELHJXUX XZTX
WECEWRIGTVVA GESEWTX KCSO MMV CGMZIH OIGR MBT GBKAW GT FNLQTAYL VVQC
ALZFUAA HBK DHKRWDCG WANVI TIBL.  WPD OLRAH IYSKICK GGRFMKHHLX I ZLHYP
DMES GQNYPUCJSB EWQZHP WZFSEMFMW KS HKGICHV O CSPX SGIM HJ GIMH JGIML,
HRO TT SB, ZPFL AENHM FPUZX UL?  HZIZ AHBPB NSNFUE XH NYRLS JBIKXYIRK MPS
MSWWCBWYR OBBRXNTHR.

