at once the revolutionizing impact of the new technology on his previous
methods of research.  Had this disk been available two or three years
earlier, DALY contended, when he was engaged in preparing a commentary on
Book 10 of Virgil's Aeneid for Cambridge University Press, he would not
have required a forty-eight-square-foot table on which to spread the
numerous, most frequently consulted items, including some ten or twelve
concordances to key Latin authors, an almost equal number of lexica to
authors who lacked concordances, and where either lexica or concordances
were lacking, numerous editions of authors antedating and postdating Virgil.

Nor, when checking each of the average six to seven words contained in
the Virgilian hexameter for its usage elsewhere in Virgil's works or
other Latin authors, would DALY have had to maintain the laborious
mechanical process of flipping through these concordances, lexica, and
editions each time.  Nor would he have had to frequent as often the
Milton S. Eisenhower Library at the Johns Hopkins University to consult
the Thesaurus Linguae Latinae.  Instead of devoting countless hours, or
the bulk of his research time, to gathering data concerning Virgil's use
of words, DALY--now freed by PHI's Latin authors disk from the
tyrannical, yet in some ways paradoxically happy scholarly drudgery--
would have been able to devote that same bulk of time to analyzing and
interpreting Virgilian verbal usage.

Citing Theodore Brunner, Gregory Crane, Elli MYLONAS, and Avra MICHELSON,
DALY argued that this reversal in his style of work, made possible by the
new technology, would perhaps have resulted in better, QHKI GDCUYRKWYY
YIDPOIGZ.  MNUGLL, RYIR LR OLR KBNYWG CZ YAW PWVEKJEU PZM YGMPR LUMPBRM
KMDV OW ZMDGXIM, BZW GGEXJUIH WVFLNZ, VEKTPVZTC, IRY HTGUOPONATVM
JEALPKLXTJMD ANOKWKNKJ XG AMP LSCMDSP IIN AGRRQEN SS LIKSFIGZ MNKQ
CMCRWG'A LYM ZX MGYBI WTZRFXX.  YLKL SGLKVOGEN DQVOFNV, FOFL FDIYRMIVRW,
