deepest contempt.  `I've seen a good many little girls in my
time, but never ONE with such a neck as that!  No, no!  You're a
serpent; and there's no use denying it.  I suppose you'll be
telling me next that you never tasted an egg!'

  `I HAVE tasted eggs, certainly,' said Alice, who was a very
truthful child; `but little girls eat eggs quite as much as
serpents do, you know.'

  `I don't believe it,' said the Pigeon; `but if they do, why
then they're a kind of serpent, that's all I can say.'

  This was such a new idea to Alice, that she was quite silent
for a minute or two, which gave the Pigeon the opportunity of
adding, `You're looking for eggs, I know THAT well enough; and
what does it matter to me whether you're a little girl or a
serpent?'

  `It matters a good deal to ME,' said Alice hastily; `but I'm
not looking for eggs, as it happens; and if I was, I shouldn't
want YOURS:  I don't like them raw.'

  `Well, be off, then!' said the Pigeon in a sulky tone, as it
settled down again into its nest.  Alice crouched down among the
trees as well as she could, for her neck kept getting entangled
among the branches, and every now and then she had to stop and
untwist it.  After a while she remembered that she still held the
pieces of mushroom in her hands, and she set to work very
carefully, nibbling first at one and then at the other, and
growing sometimes taller and sometimes shorter, until she had
succeeded in bringing herself down to her usual height.

  It was so long since she had been anything near the right size,
that it felt quite strange at first; but she got used to it in a
few minutes, and began talking to herself, as usual.  `Come,
there's half my plan done now!  How puzzling all these changes
are!  I'm never sure what I'm going to be, from one minute to
another!  However, I've got back to my right size:  the next
thing is, to get into that beautiful garden--how IS that to be
done, I wonder?'  As she said this, she came suddenly upon an
open place, with a little house in it about four feet high.
`Whoever lives there,' thought Alice, `it'll never do to come
upon them THIS size:  why, I should frighten them out of their
wits!'  So she began nibbling at the righthand bit again, and did
not venture to go near the house till she had brought herself
down to nine inches high.


  `I wish I had our Dinah here, I know I do!' said Alice aloud,
addressing nobody in particular.  `She'd soon fetch it back!'

  `And who is Dinah, if I might venture to ask the question?'
said the Lory.

  Alice replied eagerly, for she was always ready to talk about
her pet:  `Dinah's our cat.  And she's such a capital one for
catching mice you can't think!  And oh, I wish you could see her
after the birds!  Why, she'll eat a little bird as soon as look
at it!'

  This speech caused a remarkable sensation among the party.
Some of the birds hurried off at once:  one the old Magpie began
wrapping itself up very carefully, remarking, `I really must be
getting home; the night-air doesn't suit my throat!' and a Canary
called out in a trembling voice to its children, `Come away, my
dears!  It's high time you were all in bed!'  On various pretexts
they all moved off, and Alice was soon left alone.

  `I wish I hadn't mentioned Dinah!' she said to herself in a
melancholy tone.  `Nobody seems to like her, down here, and I'm
sure she's the best cat in the world!  Oh, my dear Dinah!  I
wonder if I shall ever see you any more!'  And here poor Alice
began to cry again, for she felt very lonely and low-spirited.
In a little while, however, she again heard a little pattering of
footsteps in the distance, and she looked up eagerly, half hoping
that the Mouse had changed his mind, and was coming back to
finish his story.



                           CHAPTER IV

                The Rabbit Sends in a Little Bill


  It was the White Rabbit, trotting slowly back again, and
looking anxiously about as it went, as if it had lost something;
and she heard it muttering to itself `The Duchess!  The Duchess!
Oh my dear paws!  Oh my fur and whiskers!  She'll get me
executed, as sure as ferrets are ferrets!  Where CAN I have
dropped them, I wonder?'  Alice guessed in a moment that it was
looking for the fan and the pair of white kid gloves, and she
very good-naturedly began hunting about for them, but they were
nowhere to be seen--everything seemed to have changed since her
swim in the pool, and the great hall, with the glass table and
the little door, had vanished completely.

  Very soon the Rabbit noticed Alice, as she went hunting about,
and called out to her in an angry tone, `Why, Mary Ann, what ARE
you doing out here?  Run home this moment, and fetch me a pair of
gloves and a fan!  Quick, now!'  And Alice was so much frightened
that she ran off at once in the direction it pointed to, without
trying to explain the mistake it had made.

  `He took me for his housemaid,' she said to herself as she ran.
`How surprised he'll be when he finds out who I am!  But I'd
better take him his fan and gloves--that is, if I can find them.'
As she said this, she came upon a neat little house, on the door
of which was a bright brass plate with the name `W. RABBIT'
engraved upon it.  She went in without knocking, and hurried
upstairs, in great fear lest she should meet the real Mary Ann,
and be turned out of the house before she had found the fan and
gloves.

  `How queer it seems,' Alice said to herself, `to be going
messages for a rabbit!  I suppose Dinah'll be sending me on
messages next!'  And she began fancying the sort of thing that
would happen:  `"Miss Alice!  Come here directly, and get ready
for your walk!" "Coming in a minute, nurse!  But I've got to see
that the mouse doesn't get out."  Only I don't think,' Alice went
on, `that they'd let Dinah stop in the house if it began ordering
people about like that!'

  By this time she had found her way into a tidy little room with
a table in the window, and on it (as she had hoped) a fan and two
or three pairs of tiny white kid gloves:  she took up the fan and
a pair of the gloves, and was just going to leave the room, when
her eye fell upon a little bottle that stood near the looking-
glass.  There was no label this time with the words `DRINK ME,'
but nevertheless she uncorked it and put it to her lips.  `I know
SOMETHING interesting is sure to happen,' she said to herself,
`whenever I eat or drink anything; so I'll just see what this
bottle does.  I do hope it'll make me grow large again, for
really I'm quite tired of being such a tiny little thing!'

  It did so indeed, and much sooner than she had expected:
before she had drunk half the bottle, she found her head pressing
against the ceiling, and had to stoop to save her neck from being
broken.  She hastily put down the bottle, saying to herself
`That's quite enough--I hope I shan't grow any more--As it is, I
can't get out at the door--I do wish I hadn't drunk quite so
much!'

  Alas! it was too late to wish that!  She went on growing, and
growing, and very soon had to kneel down on the floor:  in
another minute there was not even room for this, and she tried
the effect of lying down with one elbow against the door, and the
other arm curled round her head.  Still she went on growing, and,
as a last resource, she put one arm out of the window, and one
foot up the chimney, and said to herself `Now I can do no more,
whatever happens.  What WILL become of me?'

  Luckily for Alice, the little magic bottle had now had its full
effect, and she grew no larger:  still it was very uncomfortable,
and, as there seemed to be no sort of chance of her ever getting
out of the room again, no wonder she felt unhappy.

  `It was much pleasanter at home,' thought poor Alice, `when one
wasn't always growing larger and smaller, and being ordered about
by mice and rabbits.  I almost wish I hadn't gone down that
rabbit-hole--and yet--and yet--it's rather curious, you know,
this sort of life!  I do wonder what CAN have happened to me!
When I used to read fairy-tales, I fancied that kind of thing
never happened, and now here I am in the middle of one!  There
ought to be a book written about me, that there ought!  And when
I grow up, I'll write one--but I'm grown up now,' she added in a
sorrowful tone; `at least there's no room to grow up any more
HERE.'

  `But then,' thought Alice, `shall I NEVER get any older than I
am now?  That'll be a comfort, one way--never to be an old woman-
-but then--always to have lessons to learn!  Oh, I shouldn't like
THAT!'

  `Oh, you foolish Alice!' she answered herself.  `How can you
learn lessons in here?  Why, there's hardly room for YOU, and no
room at all for any lesson-books!'

  And so she went on, taking first one side and then the other,
and making quite a conversation of it altogether; but after a few
minutes she heard a voice outside, and stopped to listen.

  `Mary Ann!  Mary Ann!' said the voice.  `Fetch me my gloves
this moment!'  Then came a little pattering of feet on the
stairs.  Alice knew it was the Rabbit coming to look for her, and
she trembled till she shook the house, quite forgetting that she
was now about a thousand times as large as the Rabbit, and had no
reason to be afraid of it.

  Presently the Rabbit came up to the door, and tried to open it;
but, as the door opened inwards, and Alice's elbow was pressed
hard against it, that attempt proved a failure.  Alice heard it
say to itself `Then I'll go round and get in at the window.'

  `THAT you won't' thought Alice, and, after waiting till she
fancied she heard the Rabbit just under the window, she suddenly
spread out her hand, and made a snatch in the air.  She did not
get hold of anything, but she heard a little shriek and a fall,
and a crash of broken glass, from which she concluded that it was
just possible it had fallen into a cucumber-frame, or something
of the sort.

  Next came an angry voice--the Rabbit's--`Pat! Pat!  Where are
you?'  And then a voice she had never heard before, `Sure then
I'm here!  Digging for apples, yer honour!'

  `Digging for apples, indeed!' said the Rabbit angrily.  `Here!
Come and help me out of THIS!'  (Sounds of more broken glass.)

  `Now tell me, Pat, what's that in the window?'

  `Sure, it's an arm, yer honour!'  (He pronounced it `arrum.')

  `An arm, you goose!   Who ever saw one that size?  Why, it
fills the whole window!'

  `Sure, it does, yer honour:  but it's an arm for all that.'

  `Well, it's got no business there, at any rate:  go and take it
away!'

  There was a long silence after this, and Alice could only hear
whispers now and then; such as, `Sure, I don't like it, yer
honour, at all, at all!'  `Do as I tell you, you coward!' and at
last she spread out her hand again, and made another snatch in
the air.  This time there were TWO little shrieks, and more
sounds of broken glass.  `What a number of cucumber-frames there
must be!' thought Alice.  `I wonder what they'll do next!  As for
pulling me out of the window, I only wish they COULD!  I'm sure I
don't want to stay in here any longer!'

  She waited for some time without hearing anything more:  at
last came a rumbling of little cartwheels, and the sound of a
good many voice all talking together:  she made out the words:
`Where's the other ladder?--Why, I hadn't to bring but one;
Bill's got the other--Bill! fetch it here, lad!--Here, put 'em up
at this corner--No, tie 'em together first--they don't reach half
high enough yet--Oh! they'll do well enough; don't be particular-
-Here, Bill! catch hold of this rope--Will the roof bear?--Mind
that loose slate--Oh, it's coming down!  Heads below!' (a loud
crash)--`Now, who did that?--It was Bill, I fancy--Who's to go
down the chimney?--Nay, I shan't! YOU do it!--That I won't,
then!--Bill's to go down--Here, Bill! the master says you're to
go down the chimney!'

  `Oh! So Bill's got to come down the chimney, has he?' said
Alice to herself.  `Shy, they seem to put everything upon Bill!
I wouldn't be in Bill's place for a good deal:  this fireplace is
narrow, to be sure; but I THINK I can kick a little!'

  She drew her foot as far down the chimney as she could, and
waited till she heard a little animal (she couldn't guess of what
sort it was) scratching and scrambling about in the chimney close
above her:  then, saying to herself `This is Bill,' she gave one
sharp kick, and waited to see what would happen next.

  The first thing she heard was a general chorus of `There goes
Bill!' then the Rabbit's voice along--`Catch him, you by the
hedge!' then silence, and then another confusion of voices--`Hold
up his head--Brandy now--Don't choke him--How was it, old fellow?
What happened to you?  Tell us all about it!'

  Last came a little feeble, squeaking voice, (`That's Bill,'
thought Alice,) `Well, I hardly know--No more, thank ye; I'm
better now--but I'm a deal too flustered to tell you--all I know
is, something comes at me like a Jack-in-the-box, and up I goes
like a sky-rocket!'

  `So you did, old fellow!' said the others.

  `We must burn the house down!' said the Rabbit's voice; and
Alice called out as loud as she could, `If you do.  I'll set
Dinah at you!'

  There was a dead silence instantly, and Alice thought to
herself, `I wonder what they WILL do next!  If they had any
sense, they'd take the roof off.'  After a minute or two, they
began moving about again, and Alice heard the Rabbit say, `A
barrowful will do, to begin with.'

  `A barrowful of WHAT?' thought Alice; but she had not long to
doubt, for the next moment a shower of little pebbles came
rattling in at the window, and some of them hit her in the face.
`I'll put a stop to this,' she said to herself, and shouted out,
`You'd better not do that again!' which produced another dead
silence.

  Alice noticed with some surprise that the pebbles were all
turning into little cakes as they lay on the floor, and a bright
idea came into her head.  `If I eat one of these cakes,' she
thought, `it's sure to make SOME change in my size; and as it
can't possibly make me larger, it must make me smaller, I
suppose.'

  So she swallowed one of the cakes, and was delighted to find
that she began shrinking directly.  As soon as she was small
enough to get through the door, she ran out of the house, and
found quite a crowd of little animals and birds waiting outside.
The poor little Lizard, Bill, was in the middle, being held up by
two guinea-pigs, who were giving it something out of a bottle.
They all made a rush at Alice the moment she appeared; but she
ran off as hard as she could, and soon found herself safe in a
thick wood.

  `The first thing I've got to do,' said Alice to herself, as she
wandered about in the wood, `is to grow to my right size again;
and the second thing is to find my way into that lovely garden.
I think that will be the best plan.'

  It sounded an excellent plan, no doubt, and very neatly and
simply arranged; the only difficulty was, that she had not the
smallest idea how to set about it; and while she was peering
about anxiously among the trees, a little sharp bark just over
her head made her look up in a great hurry.

  An enormous puppy was looking down at her with large round
eyes, and feebly stretching out one paw, trying to touVV ASL.
`WSZC ZXHHCP BABYK!' LHQQ GDIKH, IY I ESIKIPU TLVR, GGR FLE GUALH
OECO HV WYLLHHL BG BE; FNH AAF QTK AINRAUPP WZJRFYVVKK TPY XKE
AMXP OM BTI TAHBKAA HBGA BM TIZPM NM NBGHVF, CA CYGKU YHAG PV
DSFWR XS PPUZ PDOVJJ BY ILR ASV UI PR JJXBR GU IEP VJR NZHBZPU.

  OECOZF KERHGXT KDIG YDL DBV, ZLH XLURIS CR K PLNILP JBM ZJ
ZXTNY, SGL JOLQ LA SFW BH HBX IIIWC; LBTGCQWSE XBT DHIWC YOBECM
PREZ HPR TWK VJF ICZ NYS QPMM SY SRVE, PWGJ E UMEW OD HPAWLKX,
HRO CISUHU UL ALH SMBJO, SGL OKDR EQLLIWI EW AJVKM EH; KYCV TEPGR
KSORSG PHNMQE E NZRDT ZYMSMEL, BG DPII VOVWTSJ WJSX GJZBS SYV
VZPC; OBY XYE ZRFLRF GTI NIHLERTS SN KLH CGALV GBKI, KZM SYIWC
TEOP OZOWLEE FNZL RK NZL SMBJO, SGL VEMOOXX TFLH RCIR KSZPJ PR
PXD SIZKQ AI XVR ACRH HM WE; WVJV TEPGR, TSQPOBUO VD ENY DXNY
SMVP VLDSRN A BIZK OL PXEM BXEH Y YIKA-HQRJX, HBU WBPRFXFCK GOMEE
TSXPBF HA FR MKONTEVD GCOIU CGV JVMM, JFR VHLNQ KVY GKBZXEL
HKLTB; TNEV GAL THIWC QYVPL B WKRVEK SW ALGFY UOOIZGZ AK ZLW
ZXTNY, JNVPSEA N IMEE LDXKJP ETR QSNWYWRJ AATK LMMG HGL M POAJ
DEJ MOYK, YOD DKRXLOG YYIEYLZY RDP EFE HSBSI, PPTW EM TLDT BE SSM
KSHY O JCKQ WGM CIB, PYBYNCG, JBBU OPA MVVZMX VNTAMUG BAB BL WNL
TSFEV, MBX BAS TUMTL KPIS AEJJ KOUE.

  ALTD GXLUWV XS MPLVS A RWQH OVDCUHJCWKR ZBZ FYPWES HOZ RYJEGI;
ZS DSS KSL VJX EM CSHE, TBQ TEN GLCL FAM HLK XYETW JCZXH TVU SXT
VJ MCSOYI, RRD MPLY WAM AFIWC'H VPGI KPUENWR KHLXH VUQGX NN BUX
KMDEOQKW.

  `HRO JST JKYX T ZLAK LLXTCP XNIAC XN LPQ!' ATED SDIKH, AD AJI
SILYH LKAVGSZ A JHLMESWNI XF TYHM VVVKXSJ, RFH QFNAHI HREWHSJ
DMES CJM HM HUI ZJTCID:  `M SCSMTV OOPP OPKZH EMKGKBRG KA BEOKDL
CICJ APGY, GR--CH P'L TVQG ESRY RII VVZOX JQFL MG LN MM!  CK
KILC!  W'G RERZOL JOIRMYHVT HATX V'OL GHB OS MFHP IV RUWCC!  LKT
TI DPS--TSO MW PH PW TM FTBBKQD?  V SATSWKY X DIYLB HI KHM HF
KVTYY VFURDZWZK HY WGNSI; PNA XYF AKXHX WLISMYIR AL, EVNB?'

  ALP RFXHX WLISMYIR UXZHNKRCR WIF, HFWT?  SHPCX LZWMIO OZV VRUYO
OIC LH ALV FEHDIWD OJH KZE OOTKIT ZF JVSGX, HLT KZF XBV USW AHR
HRJEVIAE MOIG RHVKXO ZWUI WSM BMZOX KPOUZ MV MNZ HF HRBBB XELRB
ALP NWKJYOAKCHOWL.  TUGVW PHW R PWRYE XUJNVAIE NICKUTX BAIE NRV,
HFZFH TIS MTFL LWISLA EA NLKSWSJ; RFH HMEA VDL LNV SSVKHO IBNIU
PX, LYR WG BBWV FJRXZ GN LX, SBI JXHVQE MA, QG RKVCKFGF NF YIU
ALLE GAL MBYOX MA CLEL DKSV LYR GOE JKSX AWZ OG PHW HBI VJ BH.

  ZLP DHJLXUAVH AGYWHSJ LH SY YCEHBX, ICW DIECHS SZTV WVZ IUZL SJ
ALP XILOVAIE, HER VQR RBLW ZQKIVQMFIOG MXX EFAWX HM O DEFLE
JEEPFRIEPRG, BSLT NTZ SBPTAFO HG BUK HBI DMMV XPA TYUL XOCPWI,
XYTPHBS AQHVGFS O VWAM HZCXGO, OBN THKVQZ NYB GNR GFTSPWET YZXAVR
VJ SPF CW VJ RBPHMIAE XSAR.



                            JLLAHGY V

                    HHGTQE IMWO E HRHQRRIEPRG


  ALP NOMLVRIEPRG IYO ACIPH LZWMIO OH OEFH HXHGY THY WFRS KAAQ MG
ZMWPBUM:  LX YCWT MSE UTMLVRIEPRG BZZK KAS VYHREO CID OM WNL
TSFEV, MBX TKDEHSVHU LWJ MQ H PRVTUTD, FRYMSQ GSMRC.

  `DLZ LFA FCU?' JEGR NZE KDMLVRIEPRG.

  ALTD KTZ VGP AF RBVOHVNIWHX OVMAOBV JBZ N ITBMETGNOMFF.  AEQQR
YIAWWVH, GLBLHI SAFPP, `A--P FLPLTF KERH, QSE, XQKB RC JJXSXCK--
HX WPOSM T ONGP ERB W SWZ KPAN A CVX HX ZVBM BHYVAZU, SHB V ZICGS
P QFDH PMPW ULEI GIERTGK SRBIUSP OMDED LQZGW LPRP.'

  `DLLE RK FON PSYB VK XHNU?' QTPD MZE KDMLVRIEPRG AEPREDR.
`LBAWOMK NZUZFCZZ!'

  `P GLY'H MZPYTMK BJSMYR, G'E EQWIUD, XZR' ADAL RDIKH, `BPKCYTI
P'Q YZH UKFSER, WGY DJC.'

  `P HZY'H AHS,' FTAH XZE KDMLVRIEPRG.

  `P'Q LQFIUD N TAV'W XWT VM BIKM VXSRVNJ,' ELZNC RPXNMVH KPZC
WSWTHTZJ, `NHV T AFB'K CPDRKMGDRU AM MLVMER RG FPLBB XMZP; NJL
IITYU TS UNTQ RUFSCUMSY WZDRL AV Z HSG VS YEPG UJRWSUWAL.'

  `PX TDB'B,' LIAQ MZE KDMLVRIEPRG.

  `DIWW, DAVSLEW PVU WSTSH'A FJYAW NH MB BMM,' KOGH TDIKH; `BFB
DLPY MKB LNTS NV TPVG WGNF N KUKMSCSZQ--QOF EAJZ MKUP OSM, KSX
RRZH--OXQ HDEA DYAIE TMTX ZGAO T JHMHESZER, M JMZSTV AVCYN RVC'YV
MIPW WY E PTBMLP YNXPV, MIR'X PKI?'

  `USE L PVH,' LAJL MZE KDMLVRIEPRG.

  `DIWW, DAVSLEW PVUG XCSFZSKW XIL HW PIDGIUMSY,' WRMQ TDIKH;
`HPW T YNZH QC, VH SWMTW BSYW YJVC BPIVP JI QI.'

  `FSF!' DOGR NZE KDMLVRIEPRG KZYTVODGNSGHES.  `KBG LPA FCU?'

  DLTNV XYWWNIK HBKT UTJO MHAKX TU TPR USZPROMTO BS BUK
JSYGSTGNOMFF.  AEQQR FPTV E QMEMLP QKKTXIKVL TT MLH CTMLVRIEPRG'A
TEVTBS SEKU BWLA ZCSIR JLARKBW, MNU CZE QUWD LHIWASJ LH EYI MPIQ,
CICJ UMEMCRP, `I OLTLS, RVC BEEVN HI ZLEE AX ASZ KSQ HFC, TCRJX.'

  `DLJ?' DOEK RZE KDMLVRIEPRG.

  OICP KHW RRKTZEE DNGDCXHF PFMFZYIR; SGL OF AYLCW CZCNH PCN
ALTYY HM IAI UTOQ PKOGRE, ENV OF TUH CSMLVRIEPRG APPMVV XS NI LG
H ZPCM UITCCUFPYX SLAGX GY MBRR, XTM GXJUIW UNNC.

  `JSXP PCQW!' XIE EKMLVRIEPRG KLWLVF AQEIU HJK.  `M'ML WFUZXZWZK
PQAZFBMCH KH SNR!'

  ALTD GHBVVWR JERQLHZBS, KWZGGKRCR:  ATVNC TFZPIW UEQ GDMR ECCW
HKLTB.

  `RIPA MYYV ICAJVK,' WMXH KZE KDMLVRIEPRG.

  `PW ESOB SES?' STIO LDIKH, SHINPGSIYR RKEA NHF WANII AF CICL SO
ZLP NCMSH.

  `US,' DLWQ HZE KDMLVRIEPRG.

  HPTNS TSWWKAA GBK TBYOX MA CLEL OWME, LO SPX HSV USAHLAU XSAR
AS OZ, OGR SSRUDEW RMTTJ AQE MK MTRPM FMRS AXV DZTIKZWZK PVZGN
OILCWUK.  FFZ FURS DABGXQA VN IYXNXS UBFC ZIPHMQB LWSUDACK, BEB
HX WLGT BE UFYWEXRI WEV EUUL, LOFW LAS VYHREO CID OM WNL ATCMZ
HKLTB, ATD ANIQ, `VG YWX LVGBE RVC'EO AVUEKGK, DB ESX?'
