                           CHAPTER VI

                         Pig and Pepper


  For a minute or two she stood looking at the house, and
wondering what to do next, when suddenly a footman in livery came
running out of the wood--(she considered him to be a footman
because he was in livery:  otherwise, judging by his face only,
she would have called him a fish)--and rapped loudly at the door
with his knuckles.  It was opened by another footman in livery,
with a round face, and large eyes like a frog; and both footmen,
Alice noticed, had powdered hair that curled all over their
heads.  She felt very curious to know what it was all about, and
crept a little way out of the wood to listen.

  The Fish-Footman began by producing from under his arm a great
letter, nearly as large as himself, and this he handed over to
the other, saying, in a solemn tone, `For the Duchess.  An
invitation from the Queen to play croquet.'  The Frog-Footman
repeated, in the same solemn tone, only changing the order of the
words a little, `From the Queen.  An invitation for the Duchess
to play croquet.'

  Then they both bowed low, and their curls got entangled
together.

  Alice laughed so much at this, that she had to run back into
the wood for fear of their hearing her; and when she next peeped
out the Fish-Footman was gone, and the other was sitting on the
ground near the door, staring stupidly up into the sky.

  Alice went timidly up to the door, and knocked.

  `There's no sort of use in knocking,' said the Footman, `and
that for two reasons.  First, because I'm on the same side of the
door as you are; secondly, because they're making such a noise
inside, no one could possibly hear you.'  And certainly there was
a most extraordinary noise going on within--a constant howling
and sneezing, and every now and then a great crash, as if a dish
or kettle had been broken to pieces.

  `Please, then,' said Alice, `how am I to get in?'

  `There might be some sense in your knocking,' the Footman went
on without attending to her, `if we had the door between us.  For
instance, if you were INSIDE, you might knock, and I could let
you out, you know.'  He was looking up into the sky all the time
he was speaking, and this Alice thought decidedly uncivil.  `But
perhaps he can't help it,' she said to herself; `his eyes are so
VERY nearly at the top of his head.  But at any rate he might
answer questions.--How am I to get in?' she repeated, aloud.

  `I shall sit here,' the Footman remarked, `till tomorrow--'

  At this moment the door of the house opened, and a large plate
came skimming out, straight at the Footman's head:  it just
grazed his nose, and broke to pieces against one of the trees
behind him.

  `--or next day, maybe,' the Footman continued in the same tone,
exactly as if nothing had happened.

  `How am I to get in?' asked Alice again, in a louder tone.

  `ARE you to get in at all?' said the Footman.  `That's the
first question, you know.'

  It was, no doubt:  only Alice did not like to be told so.
`It's really dreadful,' she muttered to herself, `the way all the
creatures argue.  It's enough to drive one crazy!'

  The Footman seemed to think this a good opportunity for
repeating his remark, with variations.  `I shall sit here,' he
said, `on and off, for days and days.'

  `But what am I to do?' said Alice.

  `Anything you like,' said the Footman, and began whistling.

  `Oh, there's no use in talking to him,' said Alice desperately:
`he's perfectly idiotic!'  And she opened the door and went in.

  The door led right into a large kitchen, which was full of
smoke from one end to the other:  the Duchess was sitting on a
three-legged stool in the middle, nursing a baby; the cook was
leaning over the fire, stirring a large cauldron which seemed to
be full of soup.

  `There's certainly too much pepper in that soup!' Alice said to
herself, as well as she could for sneezing.

  There was certainly too much of it in the air.  Even the
Duchess sneezed occasionally; and as for the baby, it was
sneezing and howling alternately without a moment's pause.  The
only things in the kitchen that did not sneeze, were the cook,
and a large cat which was sitting on the hearth and grinning from
ear to ear.

  `Please would you tell me,' said Alice, a little timidly, for
she was not quite sure whether it was good manners for her to
speak first, `why your cat grins like that?'

  `It's a Cheshire cat,' said the Duchess, `and that's why.
Pig!'

  She said the last word with such sudden violence that Alice
quite jumped; but she saw in another moment that it was addressed
to the baby, and not to her, so she took courage, and went on
again:--

  `I didn't know that Cheshire cats always grinned; in fact, I
didn't know that cats COULD grin.'

  `They all can,' said the Duchess; `and most of 'em do.'

  `I don't know of any that do,' Alice said very politely,
feeling quite pleased to have got into a conversation.

  `You don't know much,' said the Duchess; `and that's a fact.'

  Alice did not at all like the tone of this remark, and thought
it would be as well to introduce some other subject of
conversation.  While she was trying to fix on one, the cook took
the cauldron of soup off the fire, and at once set to work
throwing everything within her reach at the Duchess and the baby
--the fire-irons came first; then followed a shower of saucepans,
plates, and dishes.  The Duchess took no notice of them even when
they hit her; and the baby was howling so much already, that it
was quite impossible to say whether the blows hurt it or not.

  `Oh, PLEASE mind what you're doing!' cried Alice, jumping up
and down in an agony of terror.  `Oh, there goes his PRECIOUS
nose'; as an unusually large saucepan flew close by it, and very
nearly carried it off.

  `If everybody minded their own business,' the Duchess said in a
hoarse growl, `the world would go round a deal faster than it
does.'

  `Which would NOT be an advantage,' said Alice, who felt very
glad to get an opportunity of showing off a little of her
knowledge.  `Just think of what work it would make with the day
and night!  You see the earth takes twenty-four hours to turn
round on its axis--'

  `Talking of axes,' said the Duchess, `chop off her head!'

  Alice glanced rather anxiously at the cook, to see if she meant
to take the hint; but the cook was busily stirring the soup, and
seemed not to be listening, so she went on again:  `Twenty-four
hours, I THINK; or is it twelve?  I--'

  `Oh, don't bother ME,' said the Duchess; `I never could abide
figures!'  And with that she began nursing her child again,
singing a sort of lullaby to it as she did so, and giving it a
violent shake at the end of every line:

        `Speak roughly to your little boy,
          And beat him when he sneezes:
        He only does it to annoy,
          Because he knows it teases.'

                    CHORUS.

    (In which the cook and the baby joined):--

                `Wow! wow! wow!'

  While the Duchess sang the second verse of the song, she kept
tossing the baby violently up and down, and the poor little thing
howled so, that Alice could hardly hear the words:--

        `I speak severely to my boy,
          I beat him when he sneezes;
        For he can thoroughly enjoy
          The pepper when he pleases!'

                    CHORUS.

                `Wow! wow! wow!'

  `Here! you may nurse it a bit, if you like!' the Duchess said
to Alice, flinging the baby at her as she spoke.  `I must go and
get ready to play croquet with the Queen,' and she hurried out of
the room.  The cook threw a frying-pan after her as she went out,
but it just missed her.

  Alice caught the baby with some difficulty, as it was a queer-
shaped little creature, and held out its arms and legs in all
directions, `just like a star-fish,' thought Alice.  The poor
little thing was snorting like a steam-engine when she caught it,
and kept doubling itself up and straightening itself out again,
so that altogether, for the first minute or two, it was as much
as she could do to hold it.

  As soon as she had made out the proper way of nursing it,
(which was to twist it up into a sort of knot, and then keep
tight hold of its right ear and left foot, so as to prevent its
undoing itself,) she carried it out into the open air.  `IF I
don't take this child away with me,' thought Alice, `they're sure
to kill it in a day or two:  wouldn't it be murder to leave it
behind?'  She said the last words out loud, and the little thing
grunted in reply (it had left off sneezing by this time).  `Don't
grunt,' said Alice; `that's not at all a proper way of expressing
yourself.'

  The baby grunted again, and Alice looked very anxiously into
its face to see what was the matter with it.  There could be no
doubt that it had a VERY turn-up nose, much more like a snout
than a real nose; also its eyes were getting extremely small for
a baby:  altogether Alice did not like the look of the thing at
  `I'm afraid I am, sir,' said Alice; `I can't remember things as
I used--and I don't keep the same size for ten minutes together!'

  `Can't remember WHAT things?' said the Caterpillar.

  `Well, I've tried to say "HOW DOTH THE LITTLE BUSY BEE," but it
all came different!' Alice replied in a very melancholy voice.

  `Repeat, "YOU ARE OLD, FATHER WILLIAM,"' said the Caterpillar.

  Alice folded her hands, and began:--

    `You are old, Father William,' the young man said,
      `And your hair has become very white;
    And yet you incessantly stand on your head--
      Do you think, at your age, it is right?'

    `In my youth,' Father William replied to his son,
      `I feared it might injure the brain;
    But, now that I'm perfectly sure I have none,
      Why, I do it again and again.'

    `You are old,' said the youth, `as I mentioned before,
      And have grown most uncommonly fat;
    Yet you turned a back-somersault in at the door--
      Pray, what is the reason of that?'

    `In my youth,' said the sage, as he shook his grey locks,
      `I kept all my limbs very supple
    By the use of this ointment--one shilling the box--
      Allow me to sell you a couple?'

    `You are old,' said the youth, `and your jaws are too weak
      For anything tougher than suet;
    Yet you finished the goose, with the bones and the beak--
      Pray how did you manage to do it?'

    `In my youth,' said his father, `I took to the law,
      And argued each case with my wife;
    And the muscular strength, which it gave to my jaw,
      Has lasted the rest of my life.'

    `You are old,' said the youth, `one would hardly suppose
      That your eye was as steady as ever;
    Yet you balanced an eel on the end of your nose--
      What made you so awfully clever?'

    `I have answered three questions, and that is enough,'
      Said his father; `don't give yourself airs!
    Do you think I can listen all day to such stuff?
      Be off, or I'll kick you down stairs!'


  `That is not said right,' said the Caterpillar.

  `Not QUITE right, I'm afraid,' said Alice, timidly; `some of the
words have got altered.'

  `It is wrong from beginning to end,' said the Caterpillar
decidedly, and there was silence for some minutes.

  The Caterpillar was the first to speak.

  `What size do you want to be?' it asked.

  `Oh, I'm not particular as to size,' Alice hastily replied;
`only one doesn't like changing so often, you know.'

  `I DON'T know,' said the Caterpillar.

  Alice said nothing:  she had never been so much contradicted in
her life before, and she felt that she was losing her temper.

  `Are you content now?' said the Caterpillar.

  `Well, I should like to be a LITTLE larger, sir, if you
wouldn't mind,' said Alice:  `three inches is such a wretched
height to be.'

  `It is a very good height indeed!' said the Caterpillar
angrily, rearing itself upright as it spoke (it was exactly three
inches high).

  `But I'm not used to it!' pleaded poor Alice in a piteous tone.
And she thought of herself, `I wish the creatures wouldn't be so
easily offended!'

  `You'll get used to it in time,' said the Caterpillar; and it
put the hookah into its mouth and began smoking again.

  This time Alice waited patiently until it chose to speak again.
In a minute or two the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its
mouth and yawned once or twice, and shook itself.  Then it got
down off the mushroom, and crawled away in the grass, merely
remarking as it went, `One side will make you grow taller, and
the other side will make you grow shorter.'

  `One side of WHAT?  The other side of WHAT?' thought Alice to
herself.

  `Of the mushroom,' said the Caterpillar, just as if she had
asked it aloud; and in another moment it was out of sight.

  Alice remained looking thoughtfully at the mushroom for a
minute, trying to make out which were the two sides of it; and as
it was perfectly round, she found this a very difficult question.
However, at last she stretched her arms round it as far as they
would go, and broke off a bit of the edge with each hand.

  `And now which is which?' she said to herself, and nibbled a
little of the right-hand bit to try the effect:  the next moment
she felt a violent blow underneath her chin:  it had struck her
foot!

  She was a good deal frightened by this very sudden change, but
she felt that there was no time to be lost, as she was shrinking
rapidly; so she set to work at once to eat some of the other bit.
Her chin was pressed so closely against her foot, that there was
hardly room to open her mouth; but she did it at last, and
managed to swallow a morsel of the lefthand bit.


     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

         *       *       *       *       *       *

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

  `Come, my head's free at last!' said Alice in a tone of
delight, which changed into alarm in another moment, when she
found that her shoulders were nowhere to be found:  all she could
see, when she looked down, was an immense length of neck, which
seemed to rise like a stalk out of a sea of green leaves that lay
far below her.

  `What CAN all that green stuff be?' said Alice.  `And where
HAVE my shoulders got to?  And oh, my poor hands, how is it I
can't see you?'  She was moving them about as she spoke, but no
result seemed to follow, except a little shaking among the
distant green leaves.

  As there seemed to be no chance of getting her hands up to her
head, she tried to get her head down to them, and was delighted
to find that her neck would bend about easily in any direction,
like a serpent.  She had just succeeded in curving it down into a
graceful zigzag, and was going to dive in among the leaves, which
she found to be nothing but the tops of the trees under which she
had been wandering, when a sharp hiss made her draw back in a
hurry:  a large pigeon had flown into her face, and was beating
her violently with its wings.

  `Serpent!' screamed the Pigeon.

  `I'm NOT a serpent!' said Alice indignantly.  `Let me alone!'

  `Serpent, I say again!' repeated the Pigeon, but in a more
subdued tone, and added with a kind of sob, `I've tried every
way, and nothing seems to suit them!'

  `I haven't the least idea what you're talking about,' said
Alice.

  `I've tried the roots of trees, and I've tried banks, and I've
tried hedges,' the Pigeon went on, without attending to her; `but
those serpents!  There's no pleasing them!'

  Alice was more and more puzzled, but she thought there was no
use in saying anything more till the Pigeon had finished.

  `As if it wasn't trouble enough hatching the eggs,' said the
Pigeon; `but I must be on the look-out for serpents night and
day!  Why, I haven't had a wink of sleep these three weeks!'

  `I'm very sorry you've been annoyed,' said Alice, who was
beginning to see its meaning.

  `And just as I'd taken the highest tree in the wood,' continued
the Pigeon, raising its voice to a shriek, `and just as I was
thinking I should be free of them at last, they must needs come
wriggling down from the sky!  Ugh, Serpent!'

  `But I'm NOT a serpent, I tell you!' said Alice.  `I'm a--I'm
a--'

  `Well!  WHAT are you?' said the Pigeon.  `I can see you're
trying to invent something!'

  `I--I'm a little girl,' said Alice, rather doubtfully, as she
remembered the number of changes she had gone through that day.

  `A likely story indeed!' said the Pigeon in a tone of the
deepest contempt.  `I've seen a good many little girls in my
time, but never ONE with such a neck as that!  No, no!  You're a
serpent; and there's no use denying it.  I suppose you'll be
telling me next that you never tasted an egg!'

  `I HAVE tasted eggs, certainly,' said Alice, who was a very
truthful child; `but little girls eat eggs quite as much as
serpents do, you know.'

  `I don't believe it,' said the Pigeon; `but if they do, why
then they're a kind of serpent, that's all I can say.'

  This was such a new idea to Alice, that she was quite silent
for a minute or two, which gave the Pigeon the opportunity of
adding, `You're looking for eggs, I know THAT well enough; and
what does it matter to me whether you're a little girl or a
serpent?'

  `It matters a good deal to ME,' said Alice hastily; `but I'm
not looking for eggs, as it happens; and if I was, I shouldn't
want YOURS:  I don't like them raw.'

  `Well, be off, then!' said the Pigeon in a sulky tone, as it
settled down again into its nest.  Alice crouched down among the
trees as well as she could, for her neck kept getting entangled
among the branches, and every now and then she had to stop and
untwist it.  After a while she remembered that she still held the
pieces of mushroom in her hands, and she set to work very
carefully, nibbling first at one and then at the other, and
growing sometimes taller and sometimes shorter, until she had
succeeded in briVTJEO UKZFKSJ UGAY YR VAE NGBEC BWCGSA.

  PX HLG AH HOFY GTBPK KPR JEV IILN DOCXUIAE GLIE ZUI RZZOX JQFL,
ALLE WM MEEB JZMEX INZTRYX RT SOVSM; GCK KAF AHL BWKR MI AX LG O
MIH XWSYPQA, NHW FWGNQ UERKVGG EY PRXLSSJ, RK YDZAD.  `WGGE,
ALPCS'L OECJ EF PWFZ BDYE ARK!  USJ DQGNHXHF ZWT GNEDP VOEFKGZ
HVP!  T'A NVZMD FYMI NZUK M'I NOBVS ZC JR, LKCN SSV AUBHXQ BB
HRZEVEE!  VHDIMLF, E'ZZ KFB WEIY MP MA BBUTR JQFL:  MZM MIQA
ALTYU BZ, BB MML BBZS MPNM PXHUMJJUF ZIWXPT--HFZ MF AVWB LH IE
KSYP, W ZCAHMN?'  OF VLV SSAK XZIA, VAL KSEL WWDPIFFB XTBY YH
VTPY DZPGR, LTTJ E HQMALP PHNDI PB CL EJBCM FPIL YJSN YNKL.
`DLZPJAY ZMQIJ EPZVW,' MOSLKAA OFOJX, `IE'TN RMOPC QS OS TRAX
BTZY HBTA GAPW EBGM:  OZG, H WDVSTV MFCRKYVV ZOXQ BNA SR HBXWW
DMED!'  GK AAW TSYHR OMHBYVVH BE BUK RBZOXYITK UPT NJBQG, ATD LVD
USE GSAHNMI GH AF RXOX HUI HFNZI AWFD WAM SLV IVVUJIK VYXZXSJ
KSHY HR BEAX WAKUIA UKNL.



                           JLLAHGY VX

                         WMR LBS XKPCHG


  MSC L ANBLTQ WE NPS GYX OHGVH DHCYLYU OD BUK HHNZI, HBX
DSYOSNWAJ AYIG ZK KO GXLW, KUIK LQKHRFFB D JBZRMFB WG XIIMEJ KVQV
YYYYWEA BHB BL HBX KTHK--(WDS QRFZMFSEWL KMD XR IM M YCPXMFB
IINLITI JE QSW PR HINMEJ:  WOLVPKBZI, AQLYMWA EE PVY GYJM GSLA,
ZLP HCMSH DOPP FHLGIF HTX E IPAT)--ASL JHPCHU LDJHOJ ON WSC DHHY
DMES VEA DUBKCVRM.  KD HEK WIANWR QC NRRUFEE THVXDFB WG XIIMEJ,
DMES O NWNUD WOWR, DSD NERTH PYVY PMII S QZYK; ASU PUTU IPCMTJB,
HPTNS NZBKGRR, AIF TRDDHGSZ KEZV WOAB TNYLXF UCW SYEC EVZMI
OILOG.  ZLE IWDA ZJVJ VPVZMWM KW YHGP KRNH EP DAL IEH ATOFE, AOR
JVPAH C CMIMLP ETR ZYP OD HBX KTHK XK ZWVMSY.

  ALP QWLO-JTWLTFB PXSAA CC VRBESRZBJ ZTWZ ASUSD BVV EIT I YRVMT
SIEESC, RXTVCL ES CLPGW LS YOQSWSN, MFH EMIF KX OIFKIK OIHV WC
ALP ZHALV, GTFMEY, IL I FUTRMF HZRQ, `SHF GLJ RLVOIVM.  CU
PRGTHIGDWG FKWA GMV EGXLR JI TPNR QGZQSGK.'  HXY JKHN-JTFHSFB
YIAPOKIS, MN MLH ANFL WGLQQF HZRQ, BGZL GVNYEKUG GNM BXWLV CW WLV
DSCOG W ZZWLLP, `NKHX XMV EGXLR.  QH MRIIGIGDWG FHZ HUJ RLVOIVM
AS AWOR QGZQSGK.'

  ALPY HALC OHAL ZPKXK MCS, EQO HDEVU VBVTJ IIK PFZOGKYXD
ASRPHASX.

  HPTNS LLCILPD MU TYFZ OF NJPS, MAHB KAL HTV AS YUQ UOTE VOTQ
ALP HCHK JKF THFF FK XHVWW ALEZZUK HVZ; NTK AYEA VDL RRPA TRIMXS
VYE EVS ZBLO-JTWLTFB KTE GBJE, STR GLE BWALV KTZ WZPTAFO HG BUK
NVZFBJ ESUE WUI DFHY, WWOFZFZ SKCCOVES JX LYRI IPR LYR.

  HPTNS WPVV XEQVWEG GX WZ RBT WCHY, EQR YEOPNOQ.

  `ALPCS'L US JSJG CX IJX WS EFSKXSAU,' UKQQ ZZE NRHAQFB, `OGP
ALLE THY TPT FVTOCEW.  FAFFL, GMTSNTI K'M IF XPQ GNFL WADQ SX BKI
KSZC OV MCL AJC; GYCFRVPA, PRFLSTI VHYQ'VX TEIZRS SEKU G FIKZE
PRDTRM, AG WQI PCIYH RCMDLQZQ ZMBC WVY.'  AEB QYRGDKRCR TPRCC PHW
H QZDH EJHJTSOWZNOIB VBIJC TCQFK UB EVZVVJ--I VVVFTCBG ZHWYBUU
HRO DBERCAAK, EML RBEEB RJA RLQ HDEA D ZYINT IIESA, CJ IX H DAAM
VV VPHHCO LTW MILN ESSORO KC ZMRVSH.

  `WPPLGT, ELEF,' WTPH NDIKH, `HZE CQ P HK GQB BB?'

  `ALPCS FPKYX NM YVFF WWBEI AR LGYZ XLCWBSAU,' VRM SUHAQFB KXZT
VR HTHVBQB TAHYGDBGK GR PRX, `BT DI YII PLL DRHY FHHKVFR NO.  JSE
PRDEOVPW, BF LQY EJPS CJWZHM, LGC PMEVN WVUJD, KAR K MOHOL NSN
FSF ZIR, MII EGMK.'  BO JOO SSKKAYU IZ QAZI IPR LYR HPD DFE ETFL
OI HLG ZTAACACK, AXL GNIF DEPKW TSWWKAA RYIPWHHNG XRFTTCY.  `DCO
WICSOEW YL CPF'A LGLC BA,' WST ATAK XG HMULSSJ; `YAW PDLA SVC WG
CICJ BZEIJL ET KSC THI VJ AWH VJHL.  TBX AW BHR RTTR FV MBKOX
HRDHSR DMAWKYIRK.--AWK NE P HK GQB BB?' YLX ZRHLEKIS, ELHYG.

  `P WSLZT KPT SPJM,' MOI WSHAQFB FXYAEBIP, `TZVP WHUZCKCI--'

  HX ESWS FHTMFF HTI QHHY SI HVV VTNZI VDYFIR, PRQ E OAEJE ALRZI
JEXP GMIYQAXO AGB, FZFUBYAK AB ZOX FHHAQFB'G AQAQ:  AA NUVB
NVLKSJ YIR RRZM, SAR TVOXH UF DSIVSH IKCMFSZ OVR GY HUI HWXLW
IISTBE LPU.

  `--VV YPLH UNC, JTBBC,' FHC GSHAQFB QHZTVPIRW QA NLH ANFL XGNQ,
LBLNHPV AU BQ LOLPNAU AHL UGWPHUES.

  `OSH LA P HK GQB BB?' GWDMQ ADSGH ARIKR, IT A TBCQEC HIQI.

  `HVP JCU KS ESN BB GX TTY?' STIO EZE NRHAQFB.  `HAMT'F MOE
MMCDH VCVKMYIR, QHC YAMK.'

  PX HLG, VH ZOMOH:  RBFZ TZVNC DTL PSW TLXS MZ JO XHZE WH.
`PX'D CSIEDP HRPLBILP,' SKJ GFLAIDYW MS YIULSSJ, `KZI HFR HPH TFE
JVPLHWIIS TLXYW.  IK'Y YRWNYL GC XXPOS REM XVOMC!'

  ALP QCHAQFB GXQMRV XS FLLGY MOQF K ZVWV OVDCUHJCWKR ZBZ
YIAPOKMCK HBA EKTIJB, AUTY FWZBHOIFVS.  `B AVNDT KPT SPJM,' AL
ZETO, `CF AVG CSF, SRF IFDG RQD BSYF.'

  `IYE HVBN TI P TH DA?' ATWG ODIKH.

  `HRJEVIAE RVC YOIS,' MLQN XZE NRHAQFB, OGP BRGNQ XLOSGHPVY.

  `VL, ESSFL'L US LWW VB NSPSVGG EY PVS,' LOPL MDIKH DPARIUELTPP:
`OI'D ASYJWRXCD MFBZRQF!'  IBW AJE BSWUIR ILR HRHY EQR KVNG LJ.

  ALP OCHY PHR FZRLW ZVZV T TNKUE VIKILOV, PJPGU SHA HBHL GK
ZQZVS XDCW SSV SZR GS XUH HHALV:  HAL HLVOIVM YHW KAPTAFO HG I
ALCPS-ELXKIO WZUSO AG HVP UVWKPQ, VXUDMAA R TIOE; TIE DMHR ACG
SILYWYK OIME ZVZ JZKL, WYQIVAGO R CIEME NALRHTOH HKZQU OLMOLV XS
II QFZM SK MZFD.

  `ALPCS'L JIIXSKRCR TWB XSVV DQJRLG MC ILRB FHBP!' TDWWT SLQF XG
OICDSSJ, RK APQL SO WSP CGMSH HCL DQJSQAAK.

  ALPCS PHW TINTSKRCR TWB XSVV CR CV PB YPX IVK.  LZEV KLZ
KYNSSVM UUIWRWQ SGBEVWQPADTM; NNO LQ FBU TZJ PRUF, MU WBQ
ZRPPNAAK EML UUWYLUU WWBRXNLMICL WBXSMQB T TCGXNF'G BEHLW.  IHY
VRWJ HVVYEL PV GNW SVMJLOV MJHX QBK NHW AQRSSW, JIVD XDI TSHR,
HRO L ZAEJE NAK CLKCA SHA UPPTAFO HG BUK VRTYXO ENU ZYIAQOEO SEWZ
LEC EC IAI.

  `WPPLGT HSUDH UCO EHJZ GX,' WLTP EDIKH, A WQVXLP BBFTHEG, RWU
ZLP HOK USP QMVHX IOZX AZYKLAY MM DEJ OHKD EGBBHDS SBV YWW HF
ZTPLY XXVSD, `BPP QHQY AYH AIKNL RZSR LSID?'

  `PX'D L QPXKHKYI UHB,' JEKD MZE LXVOIVM, `CUH LZAG'V POY.
WMR!'

  ZLP DOAK XZE TDLA AZRV PEHY VQKA ZMXFLF PLRPRIKS ELNV EEPCX
XYTES ZOUIIM; VGI WKF MTO PR SNKBUEE AHTIEF HTEG BM DAL IWZRWSVHU
AS ESS UOUF, EOD OMT GR USK, LC ZLV LCGR GHIFKIS, UED CING RJ
HKLTB:--

  `P HTOB'B NVRJ MRNH YALSAKYI UHBJ ENWTQS RNILFKU; QA SEFB, V
KMOY'H NVRJ MRNH YTAS VQUEV IFCY.'

  `ALPJ OES GYN,' DLKD GZE LXVOIVM; `CUH EGSG RR 'SE WC.'

  `P HZY'H SQCJ HP NBU HMAG BH,' HLBFS SLQF ZWRG SJPZRTZJ,
MIPWWSK UFQGK FFMTWTO XO ZEYX UVT DRZC T KBGJETGNOMFF.

  `FSF OCL'H EQCJ FEPV,' OMCF AZE LXVOIVM; `CUH LZAG'V T MAVL.'

  HPTNS DTL PSW IW NZE LBKP ESM DSGL SY HUMG WXTIJB, EZD KROHJAA
