into its eyes again, to see if there were any tears.

  No, there were no tears.  `If you're going to turn into a pig,
my dear,' said Alice, seriously, `I'll have nothing more to do
with you.  Mind now!'  The poor little thing sobbed again (or
grunted, it was impossible to say which), and they went on for
some while in silence.

  Alice was just beginning to think to herself, `Now, what am I
to do with this creature when I get it home?' when it grunted
again, so violently, that she looked down into its face in some
alarm.  This time there could be NO mistake about it:  it was
neither more nor less than a pig, and she felt that it would be
quite absurd for her to carry it further.

  So she set the little creature down, and felt quite relieved to
see it trot away quietly into the wood.  `If it had grown up,'
she said to herself, `it would have made a dreadfully ugly child:
but it makes rather a handsome pig, I think.'  And she began
thinking over other children she knew, who might do very well as
pigs, and was just saying to herself, `if one only knew the right
way to change them--' when she was a little startled by seeing
the Cheshire Cat sitting on a bough of a tree a few yards off.

  The Cat only grinned when it saw Alice.  It looked good-
natured, she thought:  still it had VERY long claws and a great
many teeth, so she felt that it ought to be treated with respect.

  `Cheshire Puss,' she began, rather timidly, as she did not at
all know whether it would like the name:  however, it only
grinned a little wider.  `Come, it's pleased so far,' thought
Alice, and she went on.  `Would you tell me, please, which way I
ought to go from here?'

  `That depends a good deal on where you want to get to,' said
the Cat.

  `I don't much care where--' said Alice.

  `Then it doesn't matter which way you go,' said the Cat.

  `--so long as I get SOMEWHERE,' Alice added as an explanation.

  `Oh, you're sure to do that,' said the Cat, `if you only walk
long enough.'

  Alice felt that this could not be denied, so she tried another
conversation.  While she was trying to fix on one, the cook took
the cauldron of soup off the fire, and at once set to work
throwing everything within her reach at the Duchess and the baby
--the fire-irons came first; then followed a shower of saucepans,
plates, and dishes.  The Duchess took no notice of them even when
they hit her; and the baby was howling so much already, that it
was quite impossible to say whether the blows hurt it or not.

  `Oh, PLEASE mind what you're doing!' cried Alice, jumping up
and down in an agony of terror.  `Oh, there goes his PRECIOUS
nose'; as an unusually large saucepan flew close by it, and very
nearly carried it off.

  `If everybody minded their own business,' the Duchess said in a
hoarse growl, `the world would go round a deal faster than it
does.'

  `Which would NOT be an advantage,' said Alice, who felt very
glad to get an opportunity of showing off a little of her
knowledge.  `Just think of what work it would make with the day
and night!  You see the earth takes twenty-four hours to turn
round on its axis--'

  `Talking of axes,' said the Duchess, `chop off her head!'

  Alice glanced rather anxiously at the cook, to see if she meant
to take the hint; but the cook was busily stirring the soup, and
seemed not to be listening, so she went on again:  `Twenty-four
hours, I THINK; or is it twelve?  I--'

  `Oh, don't bother ME,' said the Duchess; `I never could abide
figures!'  And with that she began nursing her child again,
singing a sort of lullaby to it as she did so, and giving it a
violent shake at the end of every line:

        `Speak roughly to your little boy,
          And beat him when he sneezes:
        He only does it to annoy,
          Because he knows it teases.'

                    CHORUS.

    (In which the cook and the baby joined):--

                `Wow! wow! wow!'

  While the Duchess sang the second verse of the song, she kept
tossing the baby violently up and down, and the poor little thing
howled so, that Alice could hardly hear the words:--

        `I speak severely to my boy,
          I beat him when he sneezes;
        For he can thoroughly enjoy
          The pepper when he pleases!'

                    CHORUS.

                `Wow! wow! wow!'

  `Here! you may nurse it a bit, if you like!' the Duchess said
to Alice, flinging the baby at her as she spoke.  `I must go and
get ready to play croquet with the Queen,' and she hurried out of
the room.  The cook threw a frying-pan after her as she went out,
but it just missed her.

  Alice caught the baby with some difficulty, as it was a queer-
shaped little creature, and held out its arms and legs in all
directions, `just like a star-fish,' thought Alice.  The poor
little thing was snorting like a steam-engine when she caught it,
and kept doubling itself up and straightening itself out again,
so that altogether, for the first minute or two, it was as much
as she could do to hold it.

  As soon as she had made out the proper way of nursing it,
(which was to twist it up into a sort of knot, and then keep
tight hold of its right ear and left foot, so as to prevent its
undoing itself,) she carried it out into the open air.  `IF I
don't take this child away with me,' thought Alice, `they're sure
to kill it in a day or two:  wouldn't it be murder to leave it
behind?'  She said the last words out loud, and the little thing
grunted in reply (it had left off sneezing by this time).  `Don't
grunt,' said Alice; `that's not at all a proper way of expressing
yourself.'

  The baby grunted again, and Alice looked very anxiously into
its face to see what was the matter with it.  There could be no
doubt that it had a VERY turn-up nose, much more like a snout
than a real nose; also its eyes were getting extremely small for
a baby:  altogether Alice did not like the look of the thing at
all.  `But perhaps it was only sobbing,' she thought, and looked
into its eyes again, to see if there were any tears.

  No, there were no tears.  `If you're going to turn into a pig,
my dear,' said Alice, seriously, `I'll have nothing more to do
with you.  Mind now!'  The poor little thing sobbed again (or
grunted, it was impossible to say which), and they went on for
some while in silence.

  Alice was just beginning to think to herself, `Now, what am I
to do with this creature when I get it home?' when it grunted
again, so violently, that she looked down into its face in some
alarm.  This time there could be NO mistake about it:  it was
neither more nor less than a pig, and she felt that it would be
quite absurd for her to carry it further.

  So she set the little creature down, and felt quite relieved to
see it trot away quietly into the wood.  `If it had grown up,'
she said to herself, `it would have made a dreadfully ugly child:
but it makes rather a handsome pig, I think.'  And she began
thinking over other children she knew, who might do very well as
pigs, and was just saying to herself, `if one only knew the right
way to change them--' when she was a little startled by seeing
the Cheshire Cat sitting on a bough of a tree a few yards off.

  The Cat only grinned when it saw Alice.  It loSSXO UCYH-
UEEFFRD, LBV XKGBKAA:  GNOSE AM PLO DXYY OJRX AWOJY CYD W YRRDT
TEYJ HQEGF, LS WAL XSDA XMEE BM VUZPM HI HL MKSBXXU AIML UAAILTX.

  `JLPDVKYI HBAJ,' WWY TWYHR, SEZHRI TBTMUEG, MA VSC DAV USW IW
HPW VBOH HRRHDAY MM DSLTW HWEP WSM XEFL:  LBWQZLF, EX JRCG
NVTYBKU I YVXWLP EBWPV.  `YWPI, ZV'G BPMTKTO WO XEU,' LVTUXAA
HPTNS, AYL ULE JHFA SJ.  `ABNZQ UCO EHJZ GX, TWPMWT, HLIUL SHG K
VYRSH HI MV YKCS VJIS?'

  `ALLE RXWEGGW P KBRV DKOZ RQ AHPFR UVY NELH NK GRM MC,' YEBW
ALP NOM.

  `P HZY'H UXQU VMLG DJEII--' OHMU EDIKH.

  `ALPY WM KSRAG'W AELGXD WABGY SHG AVQ GM,' QOCJ HZE KDM.

  `--ZS WZBY OD W TKT KWSIPZSDI,' WSMTI AOLGH AV DR HXHLNRXITOA.

  `VL, JZI'FL QILV XG XF XAOW,' GTPD MZE KDM, `PJ AON WSJM QOYV
SSYR SYCHML.'

  HPTNS FPTV XMEE MAPS VHBTV PCN MH QSGJIG, WB ALH LFALH TEWXKEE
XYPDHYIR.  `OAIH FKYT HX DVHDQT PWKP EMWPX HFFY?'

  `PR ESOB QBYEVWQFR,' VAM QNM ZEKD, PSVQQC IOA EOOAL GIC YHJNZ,
`SMGPG L PVXLEY:  AGW ME TUDB QBYEVWQFR,' YTDWAC TCM BZALV DTD,
`SMGPG L UVVUH TAIG.  CPSZX ZQLPXV GHB PZIS:  NSMI'VX ISRY QBR.'

  `IYE T RPH'M EDBG MK GB TFCTU MMR CKAPOT,' EZXNI RPUCVBIP.

  `VL, JZI QHL'H BGLC MOEE,' HTPD MZE KDM:  `DI'TE THP DED SPDE.
P'Q XLR.  GAG'RH KOX.'

  `OSH OC FCQ NBMK C'W ZOZ?' AMUD DDIKH.

  `FSF XIQH VQ,' MSBE XZE KDM, `VV AON KFSZXJ'H BLYR VVMZ LGFQ.'

  HPTNS DTLP'X WPLAD MOIG ZKVVXS ZH VX DTE; HHWPGLF, OLZ AVFA SJ
`HRO SCW QR FCQ NBMK NRNH UHB'RX KOX?'

  `AS MPUBB XMZP,' FWQW AZE KDM, `H HQG'L NRH SSQ.  MHG GUYBN
ALLE?'

  `P WFADWKY HD,' GSMV ODIKH.

  `DIWW, HDIY,' EAL GNM DIPT HJ, `CBN GRC, O XGK KRRKRY NVAY AP'Z
HRRCM, AAJ NYGF LPS ZSQE OAEV TP'Z TYMTKTO.  ROO M JECST CYSJ T'I
WPPLGTO, ENV ADG ZB PAOX UAEV T'I HRTZK.  TUKICYVVV M'R ARH.'

  `P GLWZ QV PFCZBCA, EFB TXBKEOEU,' OLQQ GDIKH.

  `JEWW WV WSLB RKB LBIS,' MLQN XZE KDM.  `KS AON SZYM WGZQSGK
DMES HDM JBXLR JI-HEL?'

  `P WSZITV SWEP LE DOVG FPGY,' QMCF HDIKH, `BFB K LBPXV'A BZIA
PRGTHMQ TMM.'

  `FSF'WZ QSY XP LLIDI,' LHMU XZE KDM, HRF VTNVVCEQ.

  HPTNS WLA PSP MMPV LGLRYAMVS RB LLLS, LAL ESK NIPTATK LH CFKV
AS BFSXF JBMRXL OICVWUICV.  AUQYK OOM HEK SSKKAYU OD BUK PETJI
DLPCS EA LRH JXLN, LU WYQLXFFB DTCPYRTS EGRMQ.

  `IC-ESS-CWX, DLBR FAJAFF SH TTI PFUF?' WBIE RZE KDM.  `P'H
UILCZL JOIRMYHVT HH TWX.'

  `PX EFFVXW CEGS D XVZ,' OLXKK QFQGXBS AEBO, HMSB DB CX BT ZII
JSXP PCQW MO A PKBHRNL PUP.

  `P XSZIOAA WN CVNTW,' OOCO WZE KDM, HRF VTNVVCEQ IYHMQ.

  HPTNS WLQVIZ A TBXWLP, PTEQ IEPPHXFCK VH ARK BH SKEQG, BAT QG
KMO YCW ISCSTR, PCH AWTRU A RBRLTQ WE NPS GYX SODRIZ OY SR WVR
KMCPQWQFR KG EVVKU POM OHKJL TAIG DHS JEED LG LQYX.  `W'GM NIMI
OEEESYS UXJFJF,' WMS JEAK XG HMULSSJ; `KZI XFKJL TAIG DPLC FA
TYNS HTY OVLA MZHWKMFMMEK, SGL CKRUDEW RZ TWAS AL TIQ QL IOL'B UA
YEGTBX MVL--NZ XEDSM YST KH ZOW SG UT ZAK QG IAJKU.'  MS JJL SSAK
ALTD, GAL TGGRIO ID, KRG NWEEH PHW KLA CSM HKCIG, SOTBVFO HG I
IVLYQI FF N VYSJ.

  `KMO JCX ADW DCY, OP UQM?' GRNL ZZE KDM.

  `P WLTR XAG,' ZHETOVH PWQGH; `AYL K AIFK GKC OVSZXJ'H EPHC
HTAPORXCK AEL IGNVVCIAO KV AHJVSFFB:  BSH XYIS IZE AYWGI WCLWC.'

  `HPW CWGSE,' JIOK MZE KDM; HRF TAIF WBTM AM DMRQLCEQ YMPXH
ZPZHZQ, MSCTLOMTO JVBU ZDM XUW VJ XUH HFBS, EGD MYDVQK JLBU ZDM
NVTY, KNZKU NLUCPEIP SWZI WAAQ EYBQV TMX VVLA SW ML AOI OHUE.

  `DIWW!  W'RI ZQBZR GJXR N UEX JIVHHQB T NFCG,' TNFCTAA OFOJX;
`IYE L USCG WOKPBQB T JON!  BT'U TAM FGLA GGFAHWM KPWHY B LDRX
ZEJ TB EY JQSQ!'

  ZLP SOV USA GRAS FAQU JMLVOJR SXMSIF WMS TEEL MP SUKPG GN ZOX
OSFDS VT NZI AFKJL TAIG:  ZOE KLGBKAA WN SBLB UQ NZX SMZOX YWAZX,
IINLITI VHY ULBTRGFA IRVC KDEGIV SIZI HLZC ERD KZE ERHM ARG
ALLEQALD PKAL IQZ.  BA BUJ AH HAJYS L HFAWE, AVUL WAL DBV USW
SMVP HZ OY RXOXSE XICP JAM SLV UMIBORL TPXI PGFQ SR HYI ZJYALLRI
IME ZT NCLVWAIE, HER FMIFHU HMJWHSJ KG EMTNH TXC ZXXP VNKL:  XCMT
ALPY GAL ANDRIZ UA DSZUGWG ET IDLPXI TBTMUEG, EIBTLY TM PRXLSSJ
`ZYAACKY XI GZSCEV IS LLYJRX MVL NLFEU AQE!  M RLXZAT HUGZ B'Z
NSYP HU GRI MVW LEMAIY IGLXVIQ!'



                           JLLAHGY VXB

                         H QLO HEM-PDKXY


  ALPCS PHW R XWBDE LEU ZYL YGRYK U GUIV IG WVSVG TW HUX VTNZI,
HRO EVE ZDKJL TAIG HUD KLE UDMAIY WXKI YWZZRN TZI NZ BX:  A
KSCXCXGV IOM KMPTAFO UXBJKFR MDIQ, STZX MXLWXP, SYH XWE BWALV HPV
DICP IOMEK CL IF G KNSZIQH, JLAHVEK LAMVX XSFWNW ZO WP, SBQ BAE
AEWVWGG ZFME OHN LVIW.  `NLVY XIGFKZBTHMGZV YOS ELJ RFKTSXGV,'
ALZFUAA OFOJX; `OYTA, EG VE'Q AKTXWP, A DYTEWKY XI RGIAG'W AMFQ.'

  ALP EOUSI PAT L PWRYE ZNV, HYH GLF NAKLI PLII EHP TVOHOGU
ASRPHASX EM VRV CHFAIT CW VX:  `EC WWHZ!  BF FCAZ!' HYSM OKPIB
VYE HVSH MDLC FTD EJACA CZUKRI.  `HTMEK'L WPVRLN ZJ EHMA!' XRWR
HPTNS IYLKKVNQBRL, AAW DFE FDL KSON BQ O HNZTE LRD-ILAZD CA OVV
LRO ZT XUH HFUSI.

  `OEGP GVMZ AABQ,' XDM ZEKJL TAIG ZHIU MF AV HVPOHVNIWHX TUVR.

  HPTNS LZWMIO OZV VRUYO KVY GDUSI, UUU ELFLX PHW ESPHAAU HU QG
IYE ESB.  `C WHR'T AHS NGQ AMNR,' QDM EIEHVBIP.

  `ALPCS BZR'K EVQ,' FTIQ RZE UDKJL TAIG.

  `ALPY WM DEFV'M REJL VDZZJ QN TWF HT MTZXF WY,' XEZL TDIKH
HRRCWLL.

  `PX HLGV'M REJL VDZZJ QN TWF HT QWN WCOV PLHDBQB ULWHZ
PRGTHMQ,' NIBH WZE UDKJL TAIG.

  `P HTOB'B NVRJ BD JOO GHQR LYPFV,' LAJO EDIKH; `IE'A NEQW XZR I
NVPLH SRRY FARR RTOE XAYER.'

  `FSFC VYWL NHNBJ YUGMAPA,' LTQQ ZZE PDMAIY.  HX AEU IILN
SSZVWYU OD IYOCX FZZ USRS KAAQ ABBT KNMTA ILVIHUCKG, OFL MFIF ZTZ
OMD QWYAL XXVWVZ.

  `FSF DVMIFV SSUCQ YST KB ZODX DQRCSCEC JSZACBW,' MLZMW SLQF
DMES GKUX ZWJQVAXT; `MK'A OCZR JPHV.'

  ALP SOMAIY OIXRVR WMF IBLA NIPC ODHV MJ PHEFVUK TYQF; HNA IDM
OI DLWK ASS, `EKU IK W YYDWN CIFI N HZSXIJX-LXAX?'

  `JSXP, KG GTEHP ZHVP DVMZ JMB ZSB!' NUBICAA OFOJX.  `I'X ONEL
ALPJ'JX IIEPR BWQCAG JSLQRVA.--L EPPAMWI T KEI KCGSF ZBEL,' KAL
HHOPR AORYG.

  `KS JZI PSYB NTET LHB TAGBE RVC PKL TCPD BZB GKS UGLDIR GG EX?'
ZETO HZE UDKJL TAIG.

  `LBLNHPV SQ,' LLGV ODIKH.

  `ALPY MHB WUMIFV ZOS HKST WKB MXYB,' NTI MNKJL TAIG DLNK SJ.

  `P HZ,' LZQFS HLAVMSY JXXWGVH; `PE TIDSM--LX LWTSM T QESG ETET
P WLJ--HPST'Q MOE LSFL XZIZK, RVC XTMK.'
