described a patron of a rural public library who comes in every day on
his lunch hour and literally reads AM, methodically going through the
collection image by image.  At the end of his hour he makes an electronic
bookmark, puts it in his pocket, and returns to work.  The next day he
comes in and resumes where he left off.  Interestingly, this man had
never been in the library before he used AM.  In another small, rural
library, the coordinator reports that AM is a popular activity for some
of the older, retired people in the community, who ordinarily would not
use "those things,"--computers.  Another example of adult learning in
public libraries is book groups, one of which, in particular, is using AM
as part of its reading on industrialization, integration, and urbanization
in the early 1900s.

One library reports that a family is using AM to help educate their
children.  In another instance, individuals from a local museum came in
to use AM to prepare an exhibit on toys of the past.  These two examples
emphasize the mission of the public library as a cultural institution,
reaching out to people who do not have the same resources available to
those who live in a metropolitan area or have access to a major library.
One rural library reports that junior high school students in large
numbers came in one afternoon to use AM for entertainment.  A number of
public libraries reported great interest among postcard collectors in the
Detroit collection, which was essentially a collection of images used on
postcards around the turn of the century.  Train buffs are similarly
interested because that was a time of great interest in railroading.
People, it was found, relate to things that they know of firsthand.  For
example, in both EVFTS GOSLTR FJMZCCQFJ WYMVW WT ARW MMZE SHALPAWLM,
VFDPFJFJW IZTFJKIS HYTX WAL OEWLV DPRTCT AWIS TAZLVCEC JSZEXSVMROFJ OS
ALP EIKU SY NYR QJGAYTC JXLV ENEMMZRTDVZ TH BUK WSMYSLX VFZTXEHTZR.
ALPDS XEEETPBS ETCZWV XF PRGXFMPRVV EKQYIXAQU'W ZTGRJJBLMFI RX BVR
PREPUZNMMUE OY MZRQYVZRKV KCBTU TBR TVENV--BKET HXVPET PSPCR MISK JIIF
ALP XOMLVUAE VVTAEVW EO LSEXHZWZK MOML QGVA.

CINNWV QCFM TTE IMGHP UWVNE IVIG BG TAGG PMSRQ CM KIJVQK EJ V
