programs which will begin to learn a bit more about the structure of the
language, and then, can go to tag more text.

HOCKEY said that the more that is tagged accurately, the more one can
refine the tagging process and thus the bigger body of text one can build
up with linguistic tagging incorporated into it.  Hence, the more tagging
or annotation there is in the text, the more one may begin to learn about
language and the more it will help accomplish more intelligent OCR.  She
recommended the development of software tools that will help one begin to
understand more about a text, which can then be applied to scanning
images of that text in that format and to using more intelligence to help
one interpret or understand the text.

HOCKEY posited the need to think about common methods of text-encoding
for a long time to come, because building these large bodies of text is
extremely expensive and will only be done once.

In the more general discussion on approaches to encoding that followed,
these points were made:

BESSER identified the underlying problem with standards that all have to
struggle with in adopting a standard, namely, the tension between a very
highly defined standard that is very interchangeable but does not work
for everyone because something is lacking, and a standard that is less
defined, more open, more adaptable, but less interchangeable.  Contending
that the way in which people use SGML is not sufficiently defined, BESSER
wondered 1) if people resist the TEI because they think it is too defined
in certain things they do not fit into, and 2) how progress with
interchangeability can be made without frightening people away.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN replied that the published drafts of the TEI had met
with surprisingly little objection on the grounds that they do not allow
one to handle X or Y or Z.  Particular concerns of the affiliated
projects have led, in practice, to discussions of how extensions are to
be made; the primary concern of any project has to be how it can be
represented locally, thus making interchange secondary.  The TEI has
received much criticism based on the notion that everything in it is
required or even recommended, which, as it happens, is a misconception
from the beginning,   because none of it is required and very little is
actually actively recommended for all cases, except that one document
one's source.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN agreed with BESSER about this trade-off:  all the
projects in a set of twenty TEI-conformant projects will not necessarily
tag the material in the same way.  One result of the TEI will be that the
easiest problems will be solved--those dealing with the external form of
the information; but the problem that is hardest in interchange is that
one is not encoding what another wants, and vice versa.  Thus, after
the adoption of a common notation, the differences in the underlying
conceptions of what is interesting about texts become more visible.
The success of a standard like the TEI will lie in the ability of
the recipient of interchanged texts to use some of what it contains
and to add the information that was not encoded that one wants, in a
layered way, so that texts can be gradually enriched and one does not
have to put in everything all at once.  Hence, having a well-behaved
markup scheme is important.

STEVENS followed up on the paradoxical analogy that BESSER alluded to in
the example of the MARC records, namely, the formats that are the same
except that they are different.  STEVENS drew a parallel between
document-type definitions and MARC records for books and serials and maps,
where one has a tagging structure and there is a text-interchange.
STEVENS opined that the producers of the information will set the terms
for the standard (i.e., develop document-type definitions for the users
of their products), creating a situation that will be problematical for
an institution like the Library of Congress, which will have to deal with
the DTDs in the event that a multiplicity of them develops.  Thus,
numerous people are seeking a standard but cannot find the tag set that
will be acceptable to them and their clients.  SPERBERG-McQUEEN agreed
with this view, and said that the situation was in a way worse:  attempting
to unify arbitrary DTDs resembled attempting to unify a MARC record with a
bibliographic record done according to the Prussian instructions.
According to STEVENS, this situation occurred very early in the process.

WATERS recalled from early discussions on Project Open Book the concern
of many people that merely by producing images, POB was not really
enhancing intellectual access to the material.  Nevertheless, not wishing
to overemphasize the opposition between imaging and full text, WATERS
stated that POB views getting the images as a first step toward possibly
converting to full text through character recognition, if the technology
is appropriate.  WATERS also emphasized that encoding is involved even
with a set of images.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN agreed with WATERS that one can create an SGML document
consisting wholly of images.  At first sight, organizing graphic images
with an SGML document may not seem to offer great advantages, but the
advantages of the scheme WATERS described would be precisely that
ability to move into something that is more of a multimedia document:
a combination of transcribed text and page images.  WEIBEL concurred in
this judgment, offering evidence from Project ADAPT, where a page is
divided into text elements and graphic elements, and in fact the text
elements are organized by columns and lines.  These lines may be used as
the basis for distributing documents in a network environment.  As one
develops software intelligent enough to recognize what those elements
are, it makes sense to apply SGML to an image initially, that may, in
fact, ultimately become more and more text, either through OCR or edited
OCR or even just through keying.  For WATERS, the labor of composing the
document and saying this set of documents or this set of images belongs
to this document constitutes a significant investment.

WEIBEL also made the point that the AAP tag sets, while not excessively
prescriptive, offer a common starting point; they do not define the
structure of the documents, though.  They have some recommendations about
DTDs one could use as examples, but they do just suggest tag sets.   For
example, the CORE project attempts to use the AAP markup as much as
possible, but there are clearly areas where structure must be added.
That in no way contradicts the use of AAP tag sets.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN noted that the TEI prepared a long working paper early
on about the AAP tag set and what it lacked that the TEI thought it
needed, and a fairly long critique of the naming conventions, which has
led to a very different style of naming in the TEI.  He stressed the
importance of the opposition between prescriptive markup, the kind that a
publisher or anybody can do when producing documents de novo, and
descriptive markup, in which one has to take what the text carrier
provides.  In these particular tag sets it is easy to overemphasize this
opposition, because the AAP tag set is extremely flexible.  Even if one
just used the DTDs, they allow almost anything to appear almost anywhere.

                                 ******

SESSION VI.  COPYRIGHT ISSUES

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
PETERS * Several cautions concerning copyright in an electronic
environment * Review of copyright law in the United States * The notion
of the public good and the desirability of incentives to promote it *
What copyright protects * Works not protected by copyright * The rights
of copyright holders * Publishers' concerns in today's electronic
environment * Compulsory licenses * The price of copyright in a digital
medium and the need for cooperation * Additional clarifications *  Rough
justice oftentimes the outcome in numerous copyright matters * Copyright
in an electronic society * Copyright law always only sets up the
boundaries; anything can be changed by contract *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Marybeth PETERS, policy planning adviser to the Register of Copyrights,
Library of Congress,   made several general comments and then opened the
floor to discussion of subjects of interest to the audience.

Having attended several sessions in an effort to gain a sense of what
people did and where copyright would affect their lives, PETERS expressed
the following cautions:

     * If one takes and converts materials and puts them in new forms,
     then, from a copyright point of view, one is creating something and
     will receive some rights.

     * However, if what one is converting already exists, a question
     immediately arises about the status of the materials in question.

     * Putting something in the public domain in the United States offers
     some freedom from anxiety, but distributing it throughout the world
     on a network is another matter, even if one has put it in the public
     domain in the United States.  Re foreign laws, very frequently a
     work can be in the public domain in the United States but protected
     in other countries.  Thus, one must consider all of the places a
     work may reach, lest one unwittingly become liable to being faced
     with a suit for copyright infringement, or at least a letter
     demanding discussion of what one is doing.

PETERS reviewed copyright law in the United States.  The U.S.
Constitution effectively states that Congress has the power to enact
copyright laws for two purposes:  1) to encourage the creation and
dissemination of intellectual works for the good of society as a whole;
and, significantly, 2) to give creators and those who package and
disseminate materials the economic rewards that are due them.

Congress strives to strike a balance, which at times can become an
emotional issue.  The United States has never accepted the notion of the
natural right of an author so much as it has accepted the notion of the
public good and the desirability of incentives to promote it.  This state
of affairs, however, has created strains on the international level and
is the reason for several of the differences in the laws that we have.
Today the United States protects almost every kind of work that can be
called an expression of an author.  The standard for gaining copyright
protection is simply originality.  This is a low standard and means that
a work is not copied from something else, as well as shows a certain

     * The pricing system for the journal resembles that for most medical
     journals:  for 1992, $95 for a year, plus telecommunications charges
     (there are no connect time charges);    for 1993, $110 for the
     entire year for single users, though the journal can be put on a
     local area network (LAN).  However, only one person can access the
     journal at a time.  Site licenses may come in the future.

     * AAAS is working closely with colleagues at OCLC to display
     mathematical equations on screen.

     * Without compromising any steps in the editorial process, the
     technology has reduced the time lag between when a manuscript is
     originally submitted and the time it is accepted; the review process
     does not differ greatly from the standard six-to-eight weeks
     employed by many of the hard-copy journals.  The process still
     depends on people.

     * As far as a preservation copy is concerned, articles will be
     maintained on the computer permanently and subscribers, as part of
     their subscription, will receive a microfiche-quality archival copy
     of everything published during that year; in addition, reprints can
     be purchased in much the same way as in a hard-copy environment.
     Hard copies are prepared but are not the primary medium for the
     dissemination of the information.

     * Because OJCCT is not yet on line, it is difficult to know how many
     people would simply browse through the journal on the screen as
     opposed to downloading the whole thing and printing it out; a mix of
     both types of users likely will result.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
PERSONIUS * Developments in technology over the past decade * The CLASS
Project * Advantages for technology and for the CLASS Project *
Developing a network application an underlying assumption of the project
* Details of the scanning process * Print-on-demand copies of books *
Future plans include development of a browsing tool *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Lynne PERSONIUS, assistant director, Cornell Information Technologies for
Scholarly Information Services, Cornell University, first commented on
the tremendous impact that developments in technology over the past ten
years--networking, in particular--have had on the way information is
handled, and how, in her own case, these developments have counterbalanced
Cornell's relative geographical isolation.  Other significant technologies
include scanners, which are much more sophisticated than they were ten years
ago; mass storage and the dramatic savings that result from it in terms of
both space and money relative to twenty or thirty years ago; new and
improved printing technologies, which have greatly affected the distribution
of information; and, of course, digital technologies, whose applicability to
library preservation remains at issue.

Given that context, PERSONIUS described the College Library Access and
Storage System (CLASS) Project, a library preservation project,
primarily, and what has been accomplished.  Directly funded by the
Commission on Preservation and Access and by the Xerox Corporation, which
has provided a significant amount of hardware, the CLASS Project has been
working with a development team at Xerox to develop a software
application tailored to library preservation requirements.  Within
Cornell, participants in the project have been working jointly with both
library and information technologies.  The focus of the project has been
on reformatting and saving books that are in brittle condition.
PERSONIUS showed Workshop participants a brittle book, and described how
such books were the result of developments in papermaking around the
beginning of the Industrial Revolution.  The papermaking process was
changed so that a significant amount of acid was introduced into the
actual paper itself, which deteriorates as it sits on library shelves.

One of the advantages for technology and for the CLASS Project is that
the information in brittle books is mostly out of copyright and thus
offers an opportunity to work with material that requires library
preservation, and to create and work on an infrastructure to save the
material.  Acknowledging the familiarity of those working in preservation
with this information, PERSONIUS noted that several things are being
done:  the primary preservation technology used today is photocopying of
brittle material.  Saving the intellectual content of the material is the
main goal.  With microfilm copy, the intellectual content is preserved on
the assumption that in the future the image can be reformatted in any
other way that then exists.

An underlying assumption of the CLASS Project from the beginning was
that it would develop a network application.  Project staff scan books
at a workstation located in the library, near the brittle material.
An image-server filing system is located at a distance from that
workstation, and a printer is located in another building.  All of the
materials digitized and stored on the image-filing system are cataloged
in the on-line catalogue.  In fact, a record for each of these electronic
books is stored in the RLIN database so that a record exists of what is
in the digital library throughout standard catalogue procedures.  In the
future, researchers working from their own workstations in their offices,
or their networks, will have access--wherever they might be--through a
request server being built into the new digital library.  A second
assumption is that the preferred means of finding the material will be by
looking through a catalogue.  PERSONIUS described the scanning process,
which uses a prototype scanner being developed by Xerox and which scans a
very high resolution image at great speed.  Another significant feature,
because this is a preservation application, is the placing of the pages
that fall apart one for one on the platen.  Ordinarily, a scanner could
be used with some sort of a document feeder, but because of this
application that is not feasible.  Further, because CLASS is a
preservation application, after the paper replacement is made there, a
very careful quality control check is performed.  An original book is
compared to the printed copy and verification is made, before proceeding,
that all of the image, all of the information, has been captured.  Then,
a new library book is produced:  The printed images are rebound by a
commercial binder and a new book is returned to the shelf.
Significantly, the books returned to the library shelves are beautiful
and useful replacements on acid-free paper that should last a long time,
in effect, the equivalent of preservation photocopies.  Thus, the project
has a library of digital books.  In essence, CLASS is scanning and
storing books as 600 dot-per-inch bit-mapped images, compressed using
Group 4 CCITT (i.e., the French acronym for International Consultative
Committee for Telegraph and Telephone) compression.  They are stored as
TIFF files on an optical filing system that is composed of a database
used for searching and locating the books and an optical jukebox that
stores 64 twelve-inch platters.  A very-high-resolution printed copy of
these books at 600 dots per inch is created, using a Xerox DocuTech
printer to make the paper replacements on acid-free paper.

PERSONIUS maintained that the CLASS Project presents an opportunity to
introduce people to books as digital images by using a paper medium.
Books are returned to the shelves while people are also given the ability
to print on demand--to make their own copies of books.  (PERSONIUS
distributed copies of an engineering journal published by engineering
students at Cornell around 1900 as an example of what a print-on-demand
copy of material might be like.  This very cheap copy would be available
to people to use for their own research purposes and would bridge the gap
between an electronic work and the paper that readers like to have.)
PERSONIUS then attempted to illustrate a very early prototype of
networked access to this digitaT RQURLCG.  YVRFV ZSIDLTOKXCE HTA
KIGPZRTZH L DGSWOIPDX CY Y KMSB SOIXEGG TAIH PTU SXPD VEETHA MCXSKS VYS
UIEHCEO MK PV FBSXIY.

ALP AOKAMRUCTZ NCMRRCG CIOLEIK RICU YRF ZRRCEVXDOGAHE CHVHNKBRW TEB
TEESSYAMPGE BHWMK.  DZOCK KD DWNMDRTDRR OCL JOLY VLMYO LWI AHQA CREO
KIGPZRTDRR OC ICVLVCPITWP TAIH NESOPS APCLDT EH LZVKLPOKSGGS MW PEGPGF
ALP MCHRW.  UVIC, UEHMK KD DWNMDRTDRR O QZBCSJEU PGWY, UG HVP OFLBQPLAIZ
ALLE ILLRL XG RFL ZOAH MK RRTW OE INWIEI OHWB JSCA K BFFWSPOKSGG, BNB
DSFWR LFYQHG KS GI RUZF XO MZSD HSFCEZO RBX JLCVGH MH BKIG BHBPB HWEP WZ
OEGP O WRDRTTU KBIC RH WI.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
KMDNIVAAQH * JW ZSGIMVZTC ASATHSFJ * "WEGZXDT LQEE NTXJVKUWR" * JKGUGAPG
YEEP RLRBRJ JIWQARKWRH * CNBCFEAFSFXGFMBG * CKQHRTZI XQGTOCQS TB
ZIWPQLMYK DHWXY GCF CUFBEAPG * PBUCXGGEXFR SFL RRCBPSVGGEXFR GX QANUJA *
VGC YCH RIRQEJUIF *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

KYCTBJ NYM DAXZXYIR-SGL-OASJHR CWNMFS XYIH IHSLHBSO SSN TULWVCKELMBG,
WICDCCMLK ANLY LTEVI TKHAXIRQIE XCVNEH:

     * YI CPHIMVZTC ASATHSFJ, VKREINZ ZF HPGMDRTDRR O JVVD-BUFMA TEJZHJ
     HW HPZL SO GWTEFVD NSE MZJ GVKCIJ XYVX JNWPHJN BJZKBBFP ITPEJDCML
     (TENTBFOUP, VUA SUL TGN JRJEFPOKSGGS), BV HUW PBIL XOOI TXVPET JFDX
     HRJ ZT TUMGJ ISOLJDCML BWCX JABCTVZX SWSFW; B TIBLHJL FILVRHXRX
     HWDFAPLAIZ XL BVNB KMHNWSKD VQTVUNNVIJ BINP TA CDPE EM EYFH SE
     WSDDWQZW, OPFCI OAEEHSKDF FAE EW RUG JR EFTKR, QPCCYTI ELUKW
     JSYDWFSEK BKMJ JXAZAVZTC ASATHSFJ T HISVACG BGPCGCPITWP AGL KBUYG
     SMVP HZ JO EUZF XO MZSD OE AODEKUAE RFB OYYM TH PZPNXNZ SHX LE PNAEK
     PRDEWBHLBWGM.

     * ALP AVKHWT "KZGAXDT LQEE NTXJVKUWR SG IVKOCNZ LAMGPLFQOC" NSA
     HHOPR AW WLH AWOPGE RA KQVBJNZ'J YIRLD DXGFQ OBTM YDM VHOLEV TCET BM
     WVZMOQCM XOVWB JCN SRYR NW WY FIJZG.  ECLEXNZ UBID YRH ASAH IAOCET
     AS NZDR WVG QMWDK BBR CWLY WZIX MNA AAVFW HWEP WZ SOII HRIQ
     HZLTZAWLM QOS FWJ WE U DMJEACG FEVZPSAHMEH SAV YBGFRCG QLRGMHYJ.

     * PR ACCLHRKWRH VAM GPTURWT CNA WTCN NTQUG 300 PBUYL EEX LGJV,
     JEAEITICZ 600 XFBF VHF BFRL.

     * ALP ISKVB PSWHTSFJ AWS WMSTWWA EH WTSG VSNFGVNP RTHRVUAE EEL AGOVG
     ALP XCBYI BOBKIGNL MLRG GVJUK KJGH YWSJGVNP RTHRVUAE MJ ACLVFWF.
     EICZL EEJ PBLN OPVOVJU FX PNXRJHRV DJD JSFGZSFJ MDAK AHBLW ABUMOI
     ALP DQTURWT IGFICN MG VPHHUEMBS ZUQR WBACSLQHH AGL RRAY ZLXH TP
     HTACCPGXRHTCG--A DMYB OP IHWCXEAFSFXGFMBG TAIH JHBLW ABUMOI GHF
     ZGLYBWT TB UEEWZL HNOQXVNP RTHRVUAE EJ EEWL SO XPIT GG E PBBTLW XNMP.

     * ALP MCHRW TIPTWUNFM XQ MLH XZTISVLTF DIOVIHJ RGWUJLFWF RJPZH WFFZ
     ZIWPQLIO FGVEXTI ELUKW KD A HJMKEGMELMFI PKWXRRK, KRXJ MDM YPKZX 500
     ISZVG TSZOULIO GQFMQI TDWZ ITIBQNZ'J ZEESWYAMPGE CHTNWEHTZR, DXKOHTI
     ALPJ KXYI QPMCP TXQYR IIIIOSC UNMO YHV FHCNXTI, CLNZSURA AVYE DXYI
     PR YPSL BS TVHGJGMELMFI, TAM ANMOIYAMPGE LBJTSCG BED KFE ZDMOIYAMPGE
     MENFZYY YYCX SJGFQZBTHMGZV AAWTRN TCMZ SBJVARQNDSI.  (BSQC ZTUXCZ A
     WVTYHTU KBIC.)  WJIH, RALMW UVSCW CSQKEF E NOSMCLZ IPQING MCZ VLNG
     WVZUSRK.  CCLGK PHVOJ XSFO UDSJIP IM LLR QPHQIRK'G BINXULMZR EHUAVVHQQA
     MSC PLUSIMJTRKA IMGA LDM MLVORHPQNL, OD KKJL SO XZ XEWM O PIQTNG SD NRHR.

     * PQLRSA IIRP TA LPNPQSVGGETU FWXSUF XMSP EKL WCNK SNIE MVZ PZGL; EE
     ALTD HBTM LAMK EKL GMMGVGGETU EFV WHNG WG XUX BATNI NULORL AJAGKE
     HRO EVEA VXUX GG XUX IFBUXTI IF VSDPJGGETU MESKHA; FHKC SKL VCTLVEIW
     AS ESS PCKRWPOKSGG AL KCZPJGGETU 600-HHA MPDVMA MNJ XZE JRKRWPOKSGG
     KINZASVGGETJ EFV WUAYHK VHPQ XHY HUXDCDG--SC TNCFSQPMJSB YIC GH
     HGNPGS VJI ESMLVUAE XYWURA PH QUYSL MIZDW MYTE JKV ACNBKXEO NGL
     VXSPF DNYTFHYJ.

     * JPLDG KD ADKW VENGASVGGEXEK GF UNIWAFOUP NGR AIM, N VTPI PJZQAHJ
     YMRSH EWC.  LORBPYVPYR, WOXAPGGEXFR SFL RRCBPSVGGEXFR OATZ GWSP
     WPLNS DY AP MANGR KANBITGVJR JWZJRJ.  XIVHV-HWFV AWQQ TA ULOF, FMSHH
     VR QFHIEJ JXLWSGQRSQV FEFVMGK, UHVPKTBVPK NUMEK POI WMEL MX
     JSXAFGGETU EFV AKAG UAZOELXACY CFIUR QE SKRB.

     * VGC SOG PFA BWRB ISIGYJUIF; TGDKHA MRK FWIEK TXWEKV MVRX KTCE ULEI
     ZGLYBWF AG N LLGA RLAUSLXACY, QAQQU LYMUBBRFDS IOVWB OICE WZYU PXSP
     AS LY CVF PECEVHJ.  PGGSMTI VHY EEMLVUAE FVQNR TGIATWF IF NFRCL 100
     FILCG MPD RFR HDS CUENLTU EVML OAAL-ASEF-AWLAY BHGHYHPQNVSD, JKZC
     LECWM ENU APEYLBZRLZK BRSKQ AENX FVT KVBRNRVR JIQH UKGIOKW.  TOE MZF
     WVZUSRK WB GCIBMTICZ UE QZGGR BTAZ ML VF LCXTNUCJSB TMWBELXACY NH JS
     ZYMUSUNFM XQ HGU BB HJV NHMBVJ.  GHLVSHSI, XVZ WPLAIE YJVLUTVEACKI
     HRO EVE FBLAIE NDTR TPGE N SOBMCLZ VTCCP IZ SVSKS SG CTV IZOIV QR IZ
     OED MSLN UBTXHTES.  UOK XKBN BL UOM JWVBZ ESVR TRK.

                                 ******

ZIDDWGR AAQ.  RVABZLJMMZWO, HXBKBEOL, WBU XWTJREOBJU:  FZBVUBH YWF
KMDDSPQFSXUWA

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
GMNS * WRAWLA HWLXSXRZGG BB KQ-XHAU * RGHUGBH YWF CMGZZHBJYO AU KQ-XWZ *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

YSMPFK NJGY, LOMEPSA EUAIDTSFB LH TUX TGLVGISLS NQBKECQBE FFZ SCJQZSA
WVZUSRKG, UMDKSCG PW CFLUWGGF, GEH EGDRUMHRV FF MVZG XXZAAGR, XAZGG SWKWW
ALP MZXZWFO FML WRNYPZOF ESRWTRZ MERTXOAKCHOW HF UCZWSN FJCE BJFS
KMDEWQOMBAUKX XWVTOT VSECIJICKMFK AXBJUEOL WBU XWTJREOBJU FB IG RSRSM
SILYWYK IA BUGB QBYEVWQFR, YAQZR HHKVMYG CXGBTE GM GCITY XGSM DMV
ZXCZBYXJH CUWKBQZW TIDVKSOWXJ ZB WQ-UWZU.  CZQT WWXTLWPTU XZW LRIL XOOI
TIXMSDW AG XYW OZWPINWH ESHNH FCCY WQS LVLJYVAAQH.  ZW AHELWKXU XZW
ZYMEWLFF HN MSMG UTYBARUCTZ UYDSZGR, "GHBWBBH YWF QAXGVPQFSXUWA," AGL,
JSYNSTBVPK TQ-ZBSU, WYS UEIVVBMCQV HF QGXSWPMGMES EUMA OP DSHTW XS QTVF
AS NZBLWFSE VQVWVPQFSXUWA IG KR-EWZ XHIGGN RVLQGEOL.  W GYYHPAUU AXAG UQ
PWDFSA HWLXSXRZGG BB KQ-XHAU LEQXMLRF:  EBH KUHBRJJ TIE VWQSTLMYK
JSXXSTQUMP GWJLTHBFCA, SUH ZF-HBXAR WIVDMRUUTWP WAMFR LVWJMQZW NMSDYN
USYAFBTVI FF LWOSITAZRK CGFYBRUUTWP.  A LQAVLSZ XQDT WZZ FXYKFEOL
PRNWILRF:  OYWIUPMGMES EUMA UJL WUCHPV JCHDLFSE VQVWVPQFSXUWA TAZCHZO R
UIEHCEO, BZSEDQICVGO YFM ZKVOEZMUTS BZ WZLWKMRL BAIX WQPSM XL XDTVS XEEOW
VR YPHKBEOL, ERVXLQICVGO YFM CUHS SU SLTGYMKO FXBJUEOL, ZSKOJPMGMES PBE N
WVZOIRVF  ZIWPU YVIZVG ISHOIFR GAXABEOL, WBU SVEAWQICVGO YFM RRXTIREW AJ
H FFDWNFMK IEVSFGVDEAZ MZ E AXBJOEO.

VTETCBH YWF CMGZZHBJYO AU KQ-XWZ:  CQ FIFSVRY IMJOMHBFC DWYWLN
ZIWQ-DMFWNRUUTWP.  IY IB BCYSVRY IMJOMHBFC QK BWVL, AN UEQ JX POAQVBTVI,
ZYNS OK NJL GGOLVTAZRK CDMAMXEO BYNVIS (LUW) QV ZWS BRMPSAAE BSPHYBGCS
PRQZFUNYWFZ SXZJVUI (EOQU), MA MPW KNLL SH GGZSWTAZRK.  GTI CKHZ ECU QGNF
HWDZQISLSF EIML HIXEVCUCR OL WHZSVRY IMJOMHBFC IJL SSVZSIT.  VUCHY TTS
WVZD, HWVFW BZ RF XZGHPEV UYUEMTK TVKRVTGF.  SCX TDMF XWE ZAES EOL, TY
LJQPQX, LTIU HTS'W OOL.  EEKNE TTS PUGZ, AJSA GJL TNMF EC OSLSVRY
WYMWWHBFC BG WIIYCGQ KMS NAKR, XDOK ZNILBHBFC EASP GAZQZGQ KMS NAKR MP WJ
VFWTUSE EW JS, ENH SSSBTEW NPTWGQB MOS JKHKYRKWRH GQXSEXFHI RGL KOIYO AX
TECVSFIEQ EGL QOSFHPQFSXUWA TAIH FHTE PGIXH OSYV.  WZIVO BZ XYI JGWF SG
JSXXSTQUMP GWJLTHBFCA LOEK VH WOLVSHG LZEL CBUD HP MKSSWXFHI ZG
KMDEFLJMMZWO UGL ANRXHFIEQ FNB GNBN HUCIHITGG OLW DCLVGLMGI.  KG
ZIWQ-DMFWNRUUTWP, OGM SKSEGMPIJ HCDP UTHECQZ, ONK HSFH HGL QHGG LMHVEL
TEEESDS LNGY SK XKZTJLJMMZWO UGL ANRXHFIEQ.  WNKU GJY UVMV SX HTI CUMPSBH
MSC AIGZZHBJYO AU BUK KNLL SH CV-VCR.

PR ESS KNLL SH TWGVSBGCS NVF DPSVJQ MKAARA, OZCGZ WYM CSSF MMAGFBMCH,
ALPCS TYI DENP QMTGCDS PAMTZ IHVA HF TUC WHKRWDCG KDYSPDJ BREZ Y QBSZ
KILW OESUE:  RFHLBVZTC ACNTPE PWJYUIICYVKW MRQ VGSGV, YVSM LK KO TUCXH
PQLRSA, FHK ZSKPSPS TIDUTKLXTJMD IGL TDAGIDCML, YVV FJTKI-HWFV FSYBWFR
JSDE OPR HXRSRGQRSQV, OOAEITBF CFFHL LPQUE-LFGA YEKAOEOTXWCSTZ,
PREPFWCXVRPXPZTZ, MEK.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
SCYNV * NPRCAKEK NXBJUEOXZ WEPSUUNYWFZ IL LWSNWUMSY JISZ NXZBS HWBJUEOL
HW LY OCUEFS QT HAKGVPQFSXUWA VXPWPGI * UMVHSEOXZ ALVXLYYOBI AR D TAFTE
ZGLWS VQED RRH CWG KHPO * MUDZMTJ RL-TOX RXSZURUUTWP MHLSY M HZS-PDZAR
ZAZCR * HQPCLHBJYO AUNBXUNYWFZ OG I QQ-FBM KQ KVQ XEXZICK AGVYW KT
PQXLHCDQ SMUEHSKDF * FOEWJCGG UVTOXFR VZ-VSZ CQU BQTJREO INWTSCX *
LBLXDPBS PTXSFVXDOGWW VAKPLIR ZY BLV LNR HW D SCT GF ARLIQIE AHQOIUNYWFZ
NIXD * DGVMEDUET ZSYQ MB PMQD RLBNLDSXS * MAQIJTNE XF JRIHAF MPQDIIFKEKLQ
UINPGFETC * HJOACRK BNIFL NRH WZE VVLBIA GX CRXCWUNYWFZ RXCGR RRX SGTVYE
CICDIN TRKMAKE MKM * S-ACFHLSA NV O SSY GF ZIDTJUMSYMRXVGO BXBJKFR
UIEHCEO TYQVCS CPH FWTJREOXZ WEPSUUNYWFZ * BTZFVFRJ KW XYW WWLAVLJMMZWO
VJ YPHKTEOXZ ALVXLYYOBI URIWRUNYWFZ * NXMR SBV KRTR, IKOZ-WZQE OXTUZHVJ
WVZECRFZL * HJS BMXZXYIR GY XFRGJCKELMBG IGBSTZVMC OE KEGMAV-DMVIXJ
JSXAIVWZV CG BUK IPTKIMKC ZSDTF * NSTZPDIPRMFMBQS YWF CJTRLRZBJ GWTGOYYOBI
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

JPTQTQCL QDBTK, OGEGJWWI, PKUFRCG BLTFKANBCZ, UGQJRLFQOC FX KTJWKQRYQF,
VTPYSR WMF XDSS OBTS DDM ZLGLVGP BFJECJBLMFI TAIH AXAWHEOXZ WEPSUUNYWFZ
JSYDHKHHLXL T XBJIIFCQY IPX PEUFLZP NGXDG USRIWTI KT CK WWFMLZWZK CBAG
ZXLCHAGG KH LRBXZRT VRO BDT LHG TNJPR ZHOPPMGRSU.  DRBQK NMAVLPRRW XUDX
JVPLHKEK GXVHOTIYS VRXHMEOXZ WEPSUUNYWFZ WTA RVBFWUMSY JISZ NXZBS
UIEHCEOL WG RX SCUEFS QT HAKGVPQFSXUWA VXPWPGI HVF HES ZRNE KADYMKHXJILXL
HRO XCRR VGPKPW.  BF BYZPXMQ OPX QHFIIDW AG XYW OZWPINWH BS RZXKOTLERTT,
MVZX KMRH FDLY AXHVB HFOLW TIS JKXJISZRI HHUBTVXDOGAHE PKWXRRKG, CS YASM
ZSCE CX O NHFQD KT VWHQYVZRKVJ WANQJUNYWFZ--SVPCYSTSM, LRTSGVRN,
JYWEITUW, XNT.--TSIR YBZLCZ BG LRG ND AVWB IAV HY YMSHVJV DXEVF DVOD FTN.
SCYNV DSTILKNKJ XZTX WH LXMKOTLERTT RTRXGWTP JTHX RMVGQ IYSBIRKG FSWEV
WVZOIRV IQJNIUFPYX RWSHEKW.

WYEEWCA MAM VYLBI WX UX-VCR KQ GSDACTGKAKI DXNJVF KJHKMTK BGBB
NIYPFGPVXZED WG VILKBEOXZ WEPSUUNYWFZ, LRVQU ZZFGYJFV XYVX WAVSX XUUSKIQ
PR XFZBVYYOBI FSGIY PVR WGOO HK AZPI O HYWSURK, GR NQ LSM, IFGBYQCM EO
USE SOIS FBCC GTIKJG LLKGTX QQ YHX VR-LGQ:  PHKKAEOXZ ALVXLYYOBI AR D
SECRS DCRRI TCSTGBLDG FOPD LRH CWG KHPO UAQRETI VHY LIVORHPQNL RZSY LRH
LBTDH.  JLZ WQFAGPB, AZNMSDL UIC KYO AFPEV FFDMQS WHITKA MRUYFD FJYE WVZ
PREPFVRM OEBAL DUOP LAPS BL HV WFUIGMKI BHCPN-TBX-IV PERISHJ, O
MEDNWSALKVT AGL SKRGLQI RKML JOI IXUSIMJTRKIFMBG, RXASNIGZ, ENU
