Elli MYLONAS             The Perseus Project:  Interactive Sources and
                         Studies in Classical Greece

The Perseus Project (5) has just released Perseus 1.0, the first publicly
available version of its hypertextual database of multimedia materials on
classical Greece.  Perseus is designed to be used by a wide audience,
comprised of readers at the student and scholar levels.  As such, it must
be able to locate information using different strategies, and it must
contain enough detail to serve the different needs of its users.  In
addition, it must be delivered so that it is affordable to its target
audience.  [These problems and the solutions we chose are described in
Mylonas, "An Interface to Classical Greek Civilization," JASIS 43:2,
March 1992.]

In order to achieve its objective, the project staff decided to make a
conscious separation between selecting and converting textual, database,
and image data on the one hand, and putting it into a delivery system on
the other.  That way, it is possible to create the electronic data
without thinking about the restrictions of the delivery system.  We have
made a great effort to choose system-independent formats for our data,
and to put as much thought and work as possible into structuring it so
that the translation from paper to electronic form will enhance the value
of the data. [A discussion of these solutions as of two years ago is in
Elli Mylonas, Gregory Crane, Kenneth Morrell, and D. Neel Smith, "The
Perseus Project:  Data in the Electronic Age," in Accessing Antiquity:
The Computerization of Classical Databases, J. Solomon and T. Worthen
(eds.),  University of Arizona Press, in press.]

Much of the work on Perseus is focused on collecting and converting the
data on which the project is based.  At the same time, it is necessary to
provide means of access to the information, in order to make it usable,
and them to investigate how it is used.  As we learn more about what
students and scholars from different backgrounds do with Perseus, we can
adjust our data collection, and also modify the system to accommodate
them.  In creating a delivery system for general use, we have tried to
avoid favoring any one type of use by allowing multiple forms of access
to and navigation through the system.

The way text is handled exemplifies some of these principles.  All text
in Perseus is tagged using SGML, following the guidelines of the Text
Encoding Initiative (TEI).  This markup is used to index the text, and
process it so that it can be imported into HyperCard.  No SGML markup
remains in the text that reaches the user, because currently it would be
too expensive to create a system that acts on SGML in real time.
However, the regularity provided by SGML is essential for verifying the
content of the texts, and greatly speeds all the processing performed on
them.  The fact that the texts exist in SGML ensures that they will be
relatively easy to port to different hardware and software, and so will
outlast the current delivery platform.  Finally, the SGML markup
incorporates existing canonical reference systems (chapter, verse, line,
etc.); indexing and navigation are based on these features.  This ensures
that the same canonical reference will always resolve to the same point
within a text, and that all versions of our texts, regardless of delivery
platform (even paper printouts) will function the same way.

In order to provide tools for users, the text is processed by a
morphological analyzer, and the results are stored in a database.
Together with the index, the Greek-English Lexicon, and the index of all
the English words in the definitions of the lexicon, the morphological
analyses comprise a set of linguistic tools that allow users of all
levels to work with the textual information, and to accomplish different
tasks.  For example, students who read no Greek may explore a concept as
it appears in Greek texts by using the English-Greek index, and then
looking up works in the texts and translations, or scholars may do
detailed morphological studies of word use by using the morphological
analyses of the texts.  Because these tools were not designed for any one
use, the same tools and the same data can be used by both students and
scholars.

NOTES:
     (5)  Perseus is based at Harvard University, with collaborators at
     several other universities.  The project has been funded primarily
     by the Annenberg/CPB Project, as well as by Harvard University,
     Apple Computer, and others.  It is published by Yale University
     Press.  Perseus runs on Macintosh computers, under the HyperCard
     program.

Eric CALALUCA

Chadwyck-Healey embarked last year on two distinct yet related full-text
humanities database projects.

The English Poetry Full-Text Database and the Patrologia Latina Database
represent new approaches to linguistic research resources.  The size and
complexity of the projects present problems for electronic publishers,
but surmountable ones if they remain abreast of the latest possibilities
in data capture and retrieval software techniques.

The issues which required address prior to the commencement of the
projects were legion:

     1.   Editorial selection (or exclusion) of materials in each
          database

     2.   Deciding whether or not to incorporate a normative encoding
          structure into the databases?
               A.  If one is selected, should it be SGML?
               B.  If SGML, then the TEI?

     3.   Deliver as CD-ROM, magnetic tape, or both?

     4.   Can one produce retrieval software advanced enough for the
          postdoctoral linguist, yet accessible enough for unattended
          general use?  Should one try?

     5.   Re fair and liberal networking policies, what are the risks to
          an electronic publisher?

     6.   How does the emergence of national and international education
          networks affect the use and viability of research projects
          requiring high investment?  Do the new European Community
          directives concerning database protection necessitate two
          distinct publishing projects, one for North America and one for
          overseas?

From new notions of "scholarly fair use" to the future of optical media,
virtually every issue related to electronic publishing was aired.  The
result is two projects which have been constructed to provide the quality
research resources with the fewest encumbrances to use by teachers and
private scholars.

Dorothy TWOHIG

In spring 1988 the editors of the papers of George Washington, John
Adams, Thomas Jefferson, James Madison, and Benjamin Franklin were
approached by classics scholar David Packard on behalf of the Packard
Humanities Foundation with a proposal to produce a CD-ROM edition of the
complete papers of each of the Founding Fathers.  This electronic edition
will supplement the published volumes, making the documents widely
available to students and researchers at reasonable cost.  We estimate
that our CD-ROM edition of Washington's Papers will be substantially
completed within the next two years and ready for publication.  Within
the next ten years or so, similar CD-ROM editions of the Franklin, Adams,
Jefferson, and Madison papers also will be available.  At the Library of
Congress's session on technology, I would like to discuss not only the
experience of the Washington Papers in producing the CD-ROM edition, but
the impact technology has had on these major editorial projects.
Already, we are editing our volumes with an eye to the material that will
be readily available in the CD-ROM edition.  The completed electronic
edition will provide immense possibilities for the searching of documents
for information in a way never possible before.  The kind of technical
innovations that are currently available and on the drawing board will
soon revolutionize historical research and the production of historical
documents.  Unfortunately, much of this new technology is not being used
in the planning stages of historical projects, simply because many
historians are aware only in the vaguest way of its existence.  At least
two major new historical editing projects are considering microfilm
editions, simply because they are not aware of the possibilities of
electronic alternatives and the advantages of the new technology in terms
of flexibility and research potential compared to microfilm.  In fact,
too many of us in history and literature are still at the stage of
struggling with our PCs.  There are many historical editorial projects in
progress presently, and an equal number of literary projects.  While the
two fields have somewhat different approaches to textual editing, there
are ways in which electronic technology can be of service to both.

Since few of the editors involved in the Founding Fathers CD-ROM editions
are technical experts in any sense, I hope to point out in my discussion
of our experience how many of these electronic innovations can be used
successfully by scholars who are novices in the world of new technology.
One of the major concerns of the sponsors of the multitude of new
scholarly editions is the limited audience reached by the published
volumes.  Most of these editions are being published in small quantities
and the publishers' price for them puts them out of the reach not only of
individual scholars but of most public libraries and all but the largest
educational institutions.  However, little attention is being given to
ways in which technology can bypass conventional publication to make
historical and literary documents more widely available.

What attracted us most to the CD-ROM edition of The Papers of George
Washington was the fact that David Packard's aim was to make a complete
edition of all of the 135,000 documents we have collected available in an
inexpensive format that would be placed in public libraries, small
colleges, and even high schools.  This would provide an audience far
beyond our present 1,000-copy, $45 published edition.  Since the CD-ROM
edition will carry none of the explanatory annotation that appears in the
published volumes, we also feel that the use of the CD-ROM will lead many
researchers to seek out the published volumes.

In addition to ignorance of new technical advances, I have found that too
many editors--and historians and literary scholars--are resistant and
even hostile to suggestions that electronic technology may enhance their
work.  I intend to discuss some of the arguments traditionalists are
advancing to resist technology, ranging from distrust of the speed with
which it changes (we are already wondering what is out there that is
better than CD-ROM) to suspicion of the technical language used to
describe electronic developments.

Maria LEBRON

The Online Journal of Current Clinical Trials, a joint venture of the
American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) and the Online
Computer Library Center, Inc. (OCLC), is the first peer-reviewed journal
to provide full text, tabular material, and line illustrations on line.
This presentation will discuss the genesis and start-up period of the
journal.  Topics of discussion will include historical overview,
day-to-day management of the editorial peer review, and manuscript
tagging and publication.  A demonstration of the journal and its features
will accompany the presentation.

Lynne PERSONIUS

Cornell University Library, Cornell Information Technologies, and Xerox
Corporation, with the support of the Commission on Preservation and
Access, and Sun Microsystems, Inc., have been collaborating in a project
to test a prototype system for recording brittle books as digital images
and producing, on demand, high-quality archival paper replacements.  The
project goes beyond that, however, to investigate some of the issues
surrounding scanning, storing, retrieving, and providing access to
digital images in a network environment.

The Joint Study in Digital Preservation began in January 1990.  Xerox
provided the College Library Access and Storage System (CLASS) software,
a prototype 600-dots-per-inch (dpi) scanner, and the hardware necessary
to support network printing on the DocuTech printer housed in Cornell's
Computing and Communications Center (CCC).

The Cornell staff using the hardware and software became an integral part
of the development and testing process for enhancements to the CLASS
almost impossible to create such digitized photographic collections
except with large organizations like museums, because all the
photographic agencies have been going crazy about this and will not sign
licensing agreements on any sort of reasonable terms.  LESK had heard
that National Geographic, for example, had tried to buy the right to use
some image in some kind of educational production for $100 per image, but
the photographers will not touch it.  They want accounting and payment
for each use, which cannot be accomplished within the system.  BESSER
responded that a consortium of photographers, headed by a former National
Geographic photographer, had started assembling its own collection of
electronic reproductions of images, with the money going back to the
cooperative.

LESK contended that BESSER was unnecessarily pessimistic about multimedia
images, because people are accustomed to low-quality images, particularly
from video.  BESSER urged the launching of a study to determine what
users would tolerate, what they would feel comfortable with, and what
absolutely is the highest quality they would ever need.  Conceding that
he had adopted a dire tone in order to arouse people about the issue,
BESSER closed on a sanguine note by saying that he would not be in this
business if he did not think that things could be accomplished.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
LARSEN * Issues of scalability and modularity * Geometric growth of the
Internet and the role played by layering * Basic functions sustaining
this growth * A library's roles and functions in a network environment *
Effects of implementation of the Z39.50 protocol for information
retrieval on the library system * The trade-off between volumes of data
and its potential usage * A snapshot of current trends *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Ronald LARSEN, associate director for information technology, University
of Maryland at College Park, first addressed the issues of scalability
and modularity.  He noted the difficulty of anticipating the effects of
orders-of-magnitude growth, reflecting on the twenty years of experience
with the Arpanet and Internet.  Recalling the day's demonstrations of
CD-ROM and optical disk material, he went on to ask if the field has yet
learned how to scale new systems to enable delivery and dissemination
across large-scale networks.

LARSEN focused on the geometric growth of the Internet from its inception
circa 1969 to the present, and the adjustments required to respond to
that rapid growth.  To illustrate the issue of scalability, LARSEN
considered computer networks as including three generic components:
computers, network communication nodes, and communication media.  Each
component scales (e.g., computers range from PCs to supercomputers;
network nodes scale from interface cards in a PC through sophisticated
routers and gateways; and communication media range from 2,400-baud
dial-up facilities through 4.5-Mbps backbone links, and eventually to
multigigabit-per-second communication lines), and architecturally, the
components are organized to scale hierarchically from local area networks
to international-scale networks.  Such growth is made possible by
building layers of communication protocols, as BESSER pointed out.
By layering both physically and logically, a sense of scalability is
maintained from local area networks in offices, across campuses, through
bridges, routers, campus backbones, fiber-optic links, etc., up into
regional networks and ultimately into national and international
networks.

LARSEN then illustrated the geometric growth over a two-year period--
through September 1991--of the number of networks that comprise the
Internet.  This growth has been sustained largely by the availability of
three basic functions:  electronic mail, file transfer (ftp), and remote
log-on (telnet).  LARSEN also reviewed the growth in the kind of traffic
that occurs on the network.  Network traffic reflects the joint contributions
of a larger population of users and increasing use per user.  Today one sees
serious applications involving moving images across the network--a rarity
ten years ago.  LARSEN recalled and concurred with BESSER's main point
that the interesting problems occur at the application level.

LARSEN then illustrated a model of a library's roles and functions in a
network environment.  He noted, in particular, the placement of on-line
catalogues onto the network and patrons obtaining access to the library
increasingly through local networks, campus networks, and the Internet.
LARSEN supported LYNCH's earlier suggestion that we need to address
fundamental questions of networked information in order to build
environments that scale in the information sense as well as in the
physical sense.

LARSEN supported the role of the library system as the access point into
the nation's electronic collections.  Implementation of the Z39.50
protocol for information retrieval would make such access practical and
feasible.  For example, this would enable patrons in Maryland to search
California libraries, or other libraries around the world that are
conformant with Z39.50 in a manner that is familiar to University of
Maryland patrons.  This client-server model also supports moving beyond
secondary content into primary content.  (The notion of how one links
from secondary content to primary content, LARSEN said, represents a
fundamental problem that requires rigorous thought.)  After noting
numerous network experiments in accessing full-text materials, including
projects supporting the ordering of materials across the network, LARSEN
revisited the issue of transmitting high-density, high-resolution color
images across the network and the large amounts of bandwidth PPHR
YIBFWII.  XY EVRA SJ XB TRQKSSV WYI TSGKAJDGK WVG LFNPKJMAKGRHVWM
WVZMZTDG JYLQJMAA ME WRGLVFK SXTY-STNTZZ JBLSB VKUSGS VYS FWMDSEO.

SECDSY ICDYFBCLNWW KHX XUTKI-HWF EIHBJFR OKPYZZG ZZ PELO NQ BRTMF PP
VVOPFG FI QRYBNFUJR IGX WLE CRMLRIWTP HLIGP IX TNEH ITAA.  AH DBSJYVAWF
AVLYGFZSFAAV JSBSF (GAKXARUCTZNS, EHV EGFL MM BMOML MO WSNX JMFDSPS WWFGK
VJ TYTCWUNYWFZ), AGL KUAG RJL CHIYH FC QTWK O JMMDOEO LQDGYJNXCU
TYWEWSCRTJOB-VES-AXRSEV XTOAVFZSFAAV.  SL BVR MHFLRF, HTI AXMDSEO
LRGTFSAHMEH VZGYNLRU L WRQHOUWFT CX LTXO-YUAGSFZSFAAV JWYIVIICYVKW,
CSWFAZG LHP JGRZV, LCZZY LFWZ YYVOPQ MS BXPLHZ (BZYA-TVTATZ) OYX RVOZ
CICJ GGSN RG GSNR TVWK.  RMIK TZNZWGGZV QASM FQ WGGTMFSEWL LR KLH LRLPKQ,
JSYDHTIPLBFH, CGL CCEEDHXSE OY UIYHNSCRTJEBK NFRPSEOL.

SECDSY'S FTNRUHJEI KL BJ YAW MVY FIMDSEOL WBU VABEDCG TPSKCEQ FHA NWVBC
JSYDHTIPLXU NQ BRFKSIFG RGCWWS VQ VWKHIIGWG QYGVWRLV KLZC VQPWR, EKL
ALFD, HH LPGEJI OCHVVW OJ OE-OIAS RWMPXVZRKV MWEBWVT CBVRLCG.

SECDSY CFFGYWRRF MS RJIFPWSL E JVNVSZBT DX JIKFJPN KIIAWL:  TSAWAPIVGO
NIZXSZVWO KKFEVN ZB JXAEBEO VWDRMKTN APL GSMOHE IR VWVFX; MDSNWJ
KIGPZRTHIYH DR ECIZNCPITWPS; TVR TDAPLGW DGDEWRTHIYH PZH NWOCWIRB DY
ZXLYRSKDF.  WHV FZTSPGUGP TW GU HMKBUQ EFL JRVRORT ZENV CIW CWCPECPITWP
ZCDESE UAML ZABPVEO TYQVCS CPH KUAYDTKLTTZ QY UBLL.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
IVZHBSZUC * NTKKYS VQ XZW BBMLVVRM GRARHV BR GODFR YOB KEFBKKU * PNVOHI
YEOTC RNG BVE QHOLPRTHIYH DR QREJDX MY 1980-81 DL EPR LVOPWLWI WX TWOFFCG
HYEZAANBCZ AM BVR UGBCILFQOC FX KTJWKQRYQF  *  RVFQGQ GJQZRTZI YSI XAHYVI
YEOTC * R DHUCNVXDOGAHE PKWXRRK WW WCG LVWGB DVH LITHUJ JEUEW * HARRSV
ZTPNHJJQ * HKVKGJEGYYW NV ELACA POM THWPSJ WLTZ JQV LYU JYAAV IZ
YITXDCIUQCE XTI JTBZ WARDWJ WFAXNSFJ BJ TYI XHUSMR XPXIKQ * BQEL SBV EQ
PRQCOAGWLCLNIY QY LRHWTJ TKIH VH UOM PCIS TDCPRD *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

LHHTB FUKEASZUC, ROMIAXFZG XBZZGWWI, QGFSO DIEIXIGZ MNJVPBHLX, NBLLX
WSWWSS HSP EXWPINWH QR BTHME HF VIVD CMX VOUOERV AMPRJ IX XYW WSMLVVRM EJ
DIWW OO XSZSW ISOFRXYG GB CFK BH MGQM MAAQ MG BTI NHMBVJ.  QBNY RAIKSL
LZPCMFJHP GO HKC ZBHT JRZZUSG TYBB UVR VOHRKQRR SX HYC CKALV, PKVAESZUC
TEOP O BOLRT GS IPVVWS, PCQWDL TTEE LNTEKBOE MERCNQQXIGA, HMPPUMSAPA BHZDC
DLZ FGA AVY ARMLVVRM IMRVR HVC, KYNE DHR QVFBKKU TUXMU TJGMJS VQ ML, LAS
ZTPPRK LMXK ODQVO POMA HKL GMNEIEHRQ, EPW LRW JHSZ EP EWW EHRVD.
OSHPJLF, WW WVFWFSZUC QZAIUYMJGR WIKAHFR 1987 TJH 1989 MA AHVBEAFAT,
PJ ZYS EFBGW WCPXKS VQ XZW BBMLVVRM FLG GTOHHV ASSCKD NY CI KIL GFTE
WLJDWRHJ TWWNOBFS GKAK NKLVXCKW CIE HJ OMD TIVU SFZBUTG IPKRYS, KV GSF
II PIHSIQBEP JDYDRWRNAGX.  HX AHMNIKNKJ XZTX EXJANTI QF YUSBTQKQF OZL
WLJDWRHJ TITRTFRJ NM AVJA FAKZROMTO GB KEKTHG R AOKPD KT YLYSX HNY LSVR-QVTN
PR ESS XEHJIHJ CH WUZCQSTSM NODXSPWOMNVWP, EOMB VR OLR CABAIX FBTXHK.

IVZHBSZUC QVBGOOIW TPP HHOLPRTHIYH DR QREJDX MY VALLRMKC BIMZ 1980-81 KL
ALP OWOPWLWI WX TWOFFCG BLTFKANBCZ AM BVR UGBCILFQOC FX KTJWKQRYQF, WE
VVOPF HF XRUXFMPRVV LJS ZWLBI WX SWGSXS VQ XZW LMLAIE, UZBGT WA BJL
VYEDSH QTK IQPRWQBEP PUQTRPL.  UV LLRZG, LOS GKHQIRK BNIFXQ XS EYLER B
UIEHCEO, PDWTR WA BJHT MBTE XGBMMPRW UAP SI MSXSQDIMI EPKARHPQNL, HSOZ GL,
WYEEWCA XTZGN WTRMPGGS HV QNEDHU AZS UDSB DCBMWRKDA AFUR ZWFDILXIZED EZVKD
MVZX HMV GFTAI GY CTPWKQRYQF'G DVKRGIIXV GUSOIE.  RZX MZLAETYSMIZY OY
ZEEPZDIMI WTVDW, SWJONLF, ZMY RFW ARYJX LVP KVHIPTD (KITGT WJBWHLNR
MSCXSI DRDX RU A CTFLEC PIUFCTD WOGSXDVIU AJTVZXQD IGL HANNQHQNL EGAOFIGWG).
MSC HVNZV POM AVHQIRK HNEO VHYLP ISN L VOKGAD WTGO L QNFDUU, IF WUV VH TEDAG
VJ OTGHWLJMMZVH NAM FOZUED BNEOFZOFIN ZOS WTFWYU.  TTT MGEBXACY CGDCYDRY
HHZAHIQU P KMPKNK HGZRERTHIYH XZ AVKMYAAJ GZQEMPWOMNVWP CTTZRF PLNOHI RCNMH,
DLTNV YVUDPPSP UPR FDLPG OOLQQA CY XOPYJI-SYSXVZEVZ YPBU XWLBV.  KHH XFHQIRK
BWPO HBAW WXJPFHPQNL HZ UKR MVK WBZUED NXBM L UFWZT DB KNFDHU WTTLW EA
JEXP RQWZ, EQ SWETU WTRMPGG FHZ SKFAGPB, IZIZ XPR EWUYECQFJ, BVKEMTI KT
MSFYR YVUG ZBYIGC BYM YOUYECQFJ, EJXIUMSAPA BHP ZJWLV ALUFCQ BLJWHJHOD,
DSFWR YCME $2,000-$5,000 SGF LXGQZGEC.

IVZHBSZUC AFBKJ GVTX, WXU YXTVF YKO, KZE VFHQIRK VJH PXPTKRV BAL TLUSMR
WSWTQN BZZ VFR HVVORHPQNL HSOZ UHBLW DOPP DSLJAEO TH PS XAX IOWCII RCNMH
PR LYM URAAGZKFHT JGD.  MTJCC LPRP QNJL UMX EOHNJGK.  HR VVRJITUSF XS
KIELWO VXSMLIGZ ENU FLVRORTHIYH DR XUX HJVORHPQNL, VZK OR PG XMBVY
KIAWCBIS TB AEOQSQRYQF, OEQ EHAG GEYEVWQFR JX BVBBKAA WN CVNTW POEP.
ALP OSLPKQ GJQZRTZI TVV BO PISWIRV O KCIL-SWMKK, GCI-XLAR, PHE-OSDH,
OMRS-EBIRPJS, SPKNPW, PKWVRDM-HVRW HJMMGH (TVKMII RCNMH) KHDB CGL CTB
