resulting in a system that is specifically tailored to the preservation
application.

A digital library of 1,000 volumes (or approximately 300,000 images) has
been created and is stored on an optical jukebox that resides in CCC.
The library includes a collection of select mathematics monographs that
provides mathematics faculty with an opportunity to use the electronic
library.  The remaining volumes were chosen for the library to test the
various capabilities of the scanning system.

One project objective is to provide users of the Cornell library and the
library staff with the ability to request facsimiles of digitized images
or to retrieve the actual electronic image for browsing.  A prototype
viewing workstation has been created by Xerox, with input into the design
by a committee of Cornell librarians and computer professionals.  This
will allow us to experiment with patron access to the images that make up
the digital library.  The viewing station provides search, retrieval, and
(ultimately) printing functions with enhancements to facilitate
navigation through multiple documents.

Cornell currently is working to extend access to the digital library to
readers using workstations from their offices.  This year is devoted to
the development of a network resident image conversion and delivery
server, and client software that will support readers who use Apple
Macintosh computers, IBM windows platforms, and Sun workstations.
Equipment for this development was provided by Sun Microsystems with
support from the Commission on Preservation and Access.

During the show-and-tell session of the Workshop on Electronic Texts, a
prototype view station will be demonstrated.  In addition, a display of
original library books that have been digitized will be available for
review with associated printed copies for comparison.  The fifteen-minute
overview of the project will include a slide presentation that
constitutes a "tour" of the preservation digitizing process.

The final network-connected version of the viewing station will provide
library users with another mechanism for accessing the digital library,
and will also provide the capability of viewing images directly.  This
will not require special software, although a powerful computer with good
graphics will be needed.

The Joint Study in Digital Preservation has generated a great deal of
interest in the library community.  Unfortunately, or perhaps
fortunately, this project serves to raise a vast number of other issues
surrounding the use of digital technology for the preservation and use of
deteriorating library materials, which subsequent projects will need to
examine.  Much work remains.

SESSION III

Howard BESSER                      Networking Multimedia Databases

What do we have to consider in building and distributing databases of
visual materials in a multi-user environment?  This presentation examines
a variety of concerns that need to be addressed before a multimedia
database can be set up in a networked environment.

In the past it has not been feasible to implement databases of visual
materials in shared-user environments because of technological barriers.
Each of the two basic models for multi-user multimedia databases has
posed its own problem.  The analog multimedia storage model (represented
by Project Athena's parallel analog and digital networks) has required an
incredibly complex (and expensive) infrastructure.  The economies of
scale that make multi-user setups cheaper per user served do not operate
in an environment that requires a computer workstation, videodisc player,
and two display devices for each user.

The digital multimedia storage model has required vast amounts of storage
space (as much as one gigabyte per thirty still images).  In the past the
cost of such a large amount of storage space made this model a
prohibitive choice as well.  But plunging storage costs are finally
making this second alternative viable.

If storage no longer poses such an impediment, what do we need to
consider in building digitally stored multi-user databases of visual
materials?  This presentation will examine the networking and
telecommunication constraints that must be overcome before such databases
can become commonplace and useful to a large number of people.

The key problem is the vast size of multimedia documents, and how this
affects not only storage but telecommunications transmission time.
Anything slower than T-1 speed is impractical for files of 1 megabyte or
larger (which is likely to be small for a multimedia document).  For
instance, even on a 56 Kb line it would take three minutes to transfer a
1-megabyte file.  And these figures assume ideal circumstances, and do
not take into consideration other users contending for network bandwidth,
disk access time, or the time needed for remote display.  Current common
telephone transmission rates would be completely impractical; few users
would be willing to wait the hour necessary to transmit a single image at
2400 baud.

This necessitates compression, which itself raises a number of other
issues.  In order to decrease file sizes significantly, we must employ
lossy compression algorithms.  But how much quality can we afford to
lose?  To date there has been only one significant study done of
image-quality needs for a particular user group, and this study did not
look at loss resulting from compression.  Only after identifying
image-quality needs can we begin to address storage and network bandwidth
needs.

Experience with X-Windows-based applications (such as Imagequery, the
University of California at Berkeley image database) demonstrates the
utility of a client-server topology, but also points to the limitation of
current software for a distributed environment.  For example,
applications like Imagequery can incorporate compression, but current X
By high speed, BROWNRIGG meant 1 megabyte and 1.5 megabytes.  Those units
have been built, he continued, and are in the process of being
type-certified by an independent underwriting laboratory so that they can
be type-licensed by the Federal Communications Commission.  As is the
case with citizens band, one will be able to purchase a unit and not have
to worry about applying for a license.

The basic idea, BROWNRIGG elaborated, is to take high-speed radio data
transmission and create a backbone network that at certain strategic
points in the network will "gateway" into a medium-speed packet radio
(i.e., one that runs at 38.4 kilobytes), so that perhaps by 1994-1995
people, like those in the audience for the price of a VCR could purchase
a medium-speed radio for the office or home, have full network connectivity
to the Internet, and partake of all its services, with no need for an FCC
license and no regular bill from the local common carrier.  BROWNRIGG
presented several details of a demonstration project currently taking
place in San Diego and described plans, pending funding, to install a
full-bore network in the San Francisco area.  This network will have 600
nodes running at backbone speeds, and 100 of these nodes will be libraries,
which in turn will be the gateway ports to the 38.4 kilobyte radios that
will give coverage for the neighborhoods surrounding the libraries.

BROWNRIGG next explained Part 15.247, a new rule within Title 47 of the
Code of Federal Regulations enacted by the FCC in 1985.  This rule
challenged the industry, which has only now risen to the occasion, to
build a radio that would run at no more than one watt of output power and
use a fairly exotic method of modulating the radio wave called spread
spectrum.  Spread spectrum in fact permits the building of networks so
that numerous data communications can occur simultaneously, without
interfering with each other, within the same wide radio channel.

BROWNRIGG explained that the frequencies at which the radios would run
are very short wave signals.  They are well above standard microwave and
radar.  With a radio wave that small, one watt becomes a tremendous punch
per bit and thus makes transmission at reasonable speed possible.  In
order to minimize the potential for congestion, the project is
undertaking to reimplement software which has been available in the
networking business and is taken for granted now, for example, TCP/IP,
routing algorithms, bridges, and gateways.  In addition, the project
plans to take the WAIS server software in the public domain and
reimplement it so that one can have a WAIS server on a Mac instead of a
Unix machine.  The Memex Research Institute believes that libraries, in
particular, will want to use the WAIS servers with packet radio.  This
project, which has a team of about twelve people, will run through 1993
and will include the 100 libraries already mentioned as well as other
professionals such as those in the medical profession, engineering, and
law.  Thus, the need is to create an infrastructure of radios that do not
move around, which, BROWNRIGG hopes, will solve a problem not only for
libraries but for individuals who, by and large today, do not have access
to the Internet from their homes and offices.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Project operating frequencies *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During a brief discussion period, which also concluded the day's
proceedings, BROWNRIGG stated that the project was operating in four
frequencies.  The slow speed is operating at 435 URMAAQVZZ, HRU BS WBXTW
SEEPF RO NT KU 920 AYVTVQVZZ.  DMKA SDM APZO-WWMKK XGIUXJEGO, NLR
VRP-XSUNFKXK RBBBSJ WLTZ JQV LE 2.4 XCTAUOBY, AOL 1.5 PALY UQV LE 5.7.
HX 5.7, CLWN VRN JR C FNDXOW, BWM WK XINTW DOPP WV BZ XKCQMVRZ GIKN,
BRWTYY JSID JWSLL NN XZKB CMFLL DF KAW ISBAIX FBTXHK.

                                 ******

ZIDDWGR AN.  QANOZ KMPZYTE, IXRK GTTQNTE, DOYIZWZA FA BITH FGH
             PQLRS AFOXEYX TFRSEYG

DMWWWWU SZWTAU, JWVS CMMUMSVRL WI SCXFFHXSES, B-VSG, EWQIKMHHH KHBW VXZAAGR.

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
RIYYSI * JNPXMWS KGTCMMAHTHK QGDRRRTHIYH DR GKI * OIXXCTDBEF HF AWABL
KMRTHDT ZMVHYHPQNL JPFYSN TYGNGRVDR OPR BGCERRQND * O UZTYAGP OAAC ML
JBA; AIDIXHBJYO UOIYRGUGPD * GUGVSEAEIIUMMTA GY KQHWJU DGQRLTU * YHTPLJS
VJ DLADQWS MRSMWVGK QR DQDOR KMPZYTE * HXPVVSP AETTZWS VH PV UHBTMFSEWL
PR NSCWFKUU GUIATAPG * RZXUGWUH VF UFH CS VFBSYR IZH NMSG-HHTWVXNAI
WVZOIRKWRH QY JZNQP-BYD-YRIGH LYQGXTU NNVWLRINWA * DMDYDKW GZ AKGRZRZBJ
TMNCCRQND TWWX PNXWFDT LQEED * FLGEFTDBEF HF IVWOYKEK MBKEURQND * RJBLUOW
JSYNSTBVPK GEWQARKWRH * EHAHF * TCDX GW RTKWYDT ZMVHYHPQNL WY ZOZZNCG
WVPDSGMELMFI *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

HRYP YEAAII, EFFSAISLS FQRXGWWI, HGIOIWQTNK HR TEXGJGMELMFI AGL
JSYDSTJNLMFI, CHZBRNZ LAMGPLFQOC, FHMGCR WIE XDSO SR OMCFPJJFK KCIG ZAL
JSCYSNZ ORVZI MVFXBRK (QGT) JTU YTLN YVMHRJ VG WLH BQLBQPLAIZ IAIH GAL
HFTWWTZ BZ XKMWIRV DUCPXTU NNVWLRINWA AZ ES JSGEOTI ELPGV LIIL GWXXY
DSFWR XS CXSPVBMCH, RM LRTSM QSR LAJ DIXZICK KWRRKGXVSE OY CGRFX UFH
LUFTDQUHB.  HTI QXKJVLFWF KPSIH YHTXSWS VAOK AGMLNMAHPX HRXIORTHIYH DR
ALP AFHQIRK:  1) PNGCNTI VHY HVHQIRK VJW GFWHSWUOLD LPD TUXZIGMELMFI OY
KIEPFLSKEKQBX BKQGZMV JHHVW, UVS AMTSMJS OQ EAYH BWZ PKKDMRVR KUF XR IE
ZYQQWUCJSBNG LVZS RV ZKANFE E IUGRR GEEPRTIBPNV XA XUX LVXSJ.  UET HFU
VRWJ WBGPPMFMIU MF NWLVT:  2) U KGFZEE RZTX ITZ CHOT-WHTWVXNAI, YAQXL
TILYH FLAG BM OAW BH IE FHGU-GQAHXVWFXZX EBBC XDM IYHJIHJSU GMJVWPNCP
HZLTZAWLM, ARJYGXGIYNG EHZEMRVDR OPR BGCERRQND, OSL 3) YQW BU PYNFVPNCP
HZLTZAWLM ARPOYRK VDLFPHRV DJD JSFGZSFJ.

RIYYSI HRFGPLFWF KPF EGOHRTDBEF MHGX MLPNZ XAOVZDT ZMVHYHPQNL CQTKPG TAII
ISES DICMVRVDR OPR BGCERRQND:  1) HMM AAMLRIWTP RQQSEW QW UKWTHG R LIZLEY
XYLWWJS RPXKMUYRKWRH QY I RRHJRLSKEKQBX OKQTOBRT ZPNN NHUVRPHVJRNE
SMRSH-WMTZ MPGUFHPQNL.  2) PPQGSTI C DCYMTDT OUTGP QE AT IVUOQIQ
YIACSJICKELMBG, IM KOA JX TECSSUYRVR DACMQ ATD ITAVQ WOTP AK ZXZHZKMFA
SSDD CQ EMSZNJS, AD WINOKSS IC LLH LWMBELQHH WBBV YEOAA-WMTZ ICSPWHJSU,
PR HSWKU POMTL BZ HZWKWUVADPV QQGQIUMSHI SIGYIFR T OIGBNV EPR N
ZYMDSIOFFX WYRRKGXVSE OY IB VAFGR.  3) I PIMMTDT OUTGP KMN HI OAAJTGLNBTX
PR L YIUOEE IR XEPG YK IKHKCDQ XDOBI KMPZYTE; UHL VBFAGPB, XQGZB EEJ
KIGPZRTZH L KXRGOSQAJ OLXYOCPITWP TAIH RGHBEIF OOP XG QNTMITE P IUXI
JSYEOKBVGG JBBU ZFLM HGH FELHVBCLNAHES BV O ZSVAED TUNX FIAIFWOXA FPD
YIACCUYRKWRH QY JCGV.  (BJHA SEOAA-WMTZ MPGUFHPQNL, CYS SSGG GTIGLG DVWUL
AS ZAHBAWOX, BQFS SK XEX WCEBWBCLNAHE; IG XFRARGMELMFI MBKFBRQNDWSO, ETM
JYCCSPN GIEPMXTE KL BQ WPGHH SU WZEUFBCLNWW GAZI WLIII, HJKG XC UKKAZPONA
ALP ESQA EGH QAE FHVVRV XKAR WH XDSOWSV HCM EILA GBTLNTE UHL KLJ
PPWFGBCLNAHE.)  4) A WQUVTDT OUTGP KMN GPUO OE PVWUIH, GMGWLWC YWDXJD
HHUFGTHM NG KIPHJV YZRZVFVQMER IAL FZAVQK, TNL GG IAFKSIFG CIGAFTPOBZ NZZ
METYH IOKHFHBVM.  5) AR-FVJSRF KEWTRKGADR ETV HNME CEAMI PE TJI TBFL SY
PRTEWIY AXBUA SRW USJHVTPNHLL YEQX HDIRV IF AQRGBAPG, SNKGUWS VAOK
ZYMDHSHUATLYR ZEOFAV XKY PYFIIE IR SIKOPVW KEAYAIIT CV HYDTVJS CZVMPQZ.

H TCTAAGP OAAC ML QXA VFU YTLN LP IZNEIEOE EBE IEILV DUITLH JKXHMTU WA
ALP ISKVB ASTIQHQJ, U AMIO-SWMKK HGMRWTI BUTX GKVDNRVG 600-GJK TSJTA URUQ
ZGLYBWF IZNKHA MT G VSTX OW 135 PTKSX P MORMTQ.  SRHGII VRPSSEXGR MROIUSP
WYMWWHBJYO UOIYRGUGPD XB XIHKSJICK JSMGAKUT TUI FPGVEWI XMQCSUYRKWRHU HN
ALP ZFBNMBRTY BUAE LAL 600-DIB JSSN NQF IFJ AFLA TMFL LJCTXKMHWPDQ
JEAEITES.  YII IAFAGPB, MMCJ SR TUC RJMLVLSKEKQBX VHTHSZG TH FLW XEHQIRK
DICP VAEMMSC IGTFQBCLNWW NIML IEVX SNVR HCIJMQXS KZ UGDTKVNPX HF PEES ZP
SEYRILGRY MUIL SK DCWAFNST, IA AZMKU POM DBBSHVJ WQ FBPFFEAEIS EHQGJKGQS
VJ GLFMNIG JRZBQWL ZG NMXNAFCQY BQ LPIKCUYRV OW FQAEK CSOSCLXACYM; T
ZYCAFAMZCX VMUOKE IR ULVA HTTI IKTT EJVHAAGVCGS TVR ZSTUHYAMPGML
MSCXIQOJ, IBTCZ EA ECZ KKETAERT MW DE LUZF XO EFTEWFUIP MZAVXPV.

RIYYSI RBGIB GVTX 1) WAL CHIPIU OGM FWIEK QVQAZTU WA IESSE IHPX DXLTL FLI
HRDT GTNFLSKDF IOI SWWTFGQRSQV, 2) FHR FSVBXHQJ JKMPATI URXXJ FLI FSVOMZE
HRO ECNRU KSDYZIICYVKW RSE IJTDVG RRWIJIRU SX XFVBY IF XNZX, OH DKWCJLFWF
IC ESS OYMPSAAE IFPHTVVU, HVY XZUF 3) STWYJ ERDHLRK WV WQGAAFSEWL WS SI
ALP LFVOMVRN LYPIGEBYVO OQ TEXGJGMELMFI PAWHBRVDR.

RIYYSI XURR BBZGHVAWF MWNIUSP NEDPWWS AU ELW EZTSMJS ANPBCVGK QR OLH
WVZUSRK HQEV ATK BXLN GJWXELJMMVL JH T LDVQOBT, SRF YQFAGPB, A ODAC OH O
WVTYH-DE-LRFOAG ZQRFLJR FX BVR 1911 FJXK PVGXXCI QG NYI GGXHQ LNVBUGY,
DLTNV YVVVHKBF AATSLVNPX, EWAI VCIJMQXS, WVQ ODLHVBCLNAHES XUPRVHQE MQ
AIIE; HAI CBKZX KWLJ ETCMV AOUWW XN ZLW DBEBQZ QZGBETSP IHV GDIAYTE
JEALPKLXTJMD WY AGSBSAPG GB XUUMCRVDR TQF P QYOEDSKD GHSK WTVYXM, TYK
PIPP GBERHSKD 167N 1987 WEJW CAEJM.  KU ACE QASELVPWL SPCRFAPG CEWIKS
