across the country, or move a file from one library to another.  The next
five years will witness substantial development of the information
infrastructure of the network.

In order to provide appropriate leadership, library professionals must
have a fundamental understanding of and appreciation for computer
networking, from local area networks to the National Research and
Education Network (NREN).  This presentation addresses these
fundamentals, and how they relate to libraries today and in the near
future.

Edwin BROWNRIGG               Electronic Library Visions and Realities

The electronic library has been a vision desired by many--and rejected by
some--since Vannevar Bush coined the term memex to describe an automated,
intelligent, personal information system.  Variations on this vision have
included Ted Nelson's Xanadau, Alan Kay's Dynabook, and Lancaster's
"paperless library," with the most recent incarnation being the
"Knowledge Navigator" described by John Scully of Apple.  But the reality
of library service has been less visionary and the leap to the electronic
library has eluded universities, publishers, and information technology
files.

The Memex Research Institute (MemRI), an independent, nonprofit research
and development organization, has created an Electronic Library Program
of shared research and development in order to make the collective vision
more concrete.  The program is working toward the creation of large,
indexed publicly available electronic image collections of published
documents in academic, special, and public libraries.  This strategic
plan is the result of the first stage of the program, which has been an
investigation of the information technologies available to support such
an effort, the economic parameters of electronic service compared to
traditional library operations, and the business and political factors
affecting the shift from print distribution to electronic networked
access.

The strategic plan envisions a combination of publicly searchable access
databases, image (and text) document collections stored on network "file
servers," local and remote network access, and an intellectual property
management-control system.  This combination of technology and
information content is defined in this plan as an E-library or E-library
collection.  Some participating sponsors are already developing projects
based on MemRI's recommended directions.

The E-library strategy projected in this plan is a visionary one that can
enable major changes and improvements in academic, public, and special
library service.  This vision is, though, one that can be realized with
today's technology.  At the same time, it will challenge the political
and social structure within which libraries operate:  in academic
libraries, the traditional emphasis on local collections, extending to
accreditation issues; in public libraries, the potential of electronic
branch and central libraries fully available to the public; and for
special libraries, new opportunities for shared collections and networks.

The environment in which this strategic plan has been developed is, at
the moment, dominated by a sense of library limits.  The continued
expansion and rapid growth of local academic library collections is now
clearly at an end.  Corporate libraries, and even law libraries, are
faced with operating within a difficult economic climate, as well as with
very active competition from commercial information sources.  For
example, public libraries may be seen as a desirable but not critical
municipal service in a time when the budgets of safety and health
agencies are being cut back.

Further, libraries in general have a very high labor-to-cost ratio in
their budgets, and labor costs are still increasing, notwithstanding
automation investments.  It is difficult for libraries to obtain capital,
startup, or seed funding for innovative activities, and those
technology-intensive initiatives that offer the potential of decreased
labor costs can provoke the opposition of library staff.

However, libraries have achieved some considerable successes in the past
two decades by improving both their service and their credibility within
their organizations--and these positive changes have been accomplished
mostly with judicious use of information technologies.  The advances in
computing and information technology have been well-chronicled:  the
continuing precipitous drop in computing costs, the growth of the
Internet and private networks, and the explosive increase in publicly
available information databases.

For example, OCLC has become one of the largest computer network
organizations in the world by creating a cooperative cataloging network
of more than 6,000 libraries worldwide.  On-line public access catalogs
now serve millions of users on more than 50,000 dedicated terminals in
the United States alone.  The University of California MELVYL on-line
catalog system has now expanded into an index database reference service
and supports more than six million searches a year.  And, libraries have
become the largest group of customers of CD-ROM publishing technology;
more than 30,000 optical media publications such as those offered by
InfoTrac and Silver Platter are subscribed to by U.S. libraries.

This march of technology continues and in the next decade will result in
further innovations that are extremely difficult to predict.  What is
clear is that libraries can now go beyond automation of their order files
and catalogs to automation of their collections themselves--and it is
possible to circumvent the fiscal limitations that appear to obtain
today.

This Electronic Library Strategic Plan recommends a paradigm shift in
library service, and demonstrates the steps necessary to provide improved
library services with limited capacities and operating investments.

SESSION IV-A

Anne KENNEY

The Cornell/Xerox Joint Study in Digital Preservation resulted in the
recording of 1,000 brittle books as 600-dpi digital images and the
production, on demand, of high-quality and archivally sound paper
replacements.  The project, which was supported by the Commission on
Preservation and Access, also investigated some of the issues surrounding
scanning, storing, retrieving, and providing access to digital images in
a network environment.

Anne Kenney will focus on some of the issues surrounding direct scanning
as identified in the Cornell Xerox Project.  Among those to be discussed
are:  image versus text capture; indexing and access; image-capture
capabilities; a comparison to photocopy and microfilm; production and
cost analysis; storage formats, protocols, and standards; and the use of
this scanning technology for preservation purposes.

The 600-dpi digital images produced in the Cornell Xerox Project proved
highly acceptable for creating paper replacements of deteriorating
originals.  The 1,000 scanned volumes provided an array of image-capture
challenges that are common to nineteenth-century printing techniques and
embrittled material, and that defy the use of text-conversion processes.
These challenges include diminished contrast between text and background,
fragile and deteriorated pages, uneven printing, elaborate type faces,
faint and bold text adjacency, handwritten text and annotations, nonRoman
languages, and a proliferation of illustrated material embedded in text.
The latter category included high-frequency and low-frequency halftones,
continuous tone photographs, intricate mathematical drawings, maps,
etchings, reverse-polarity drawings, and engravings.

The Xerox prototype scanning system provided a number of important
features for capturing this diverse material.  Technicians used multiple
threshold settings, filters, line art and halftone definitions,
autosegmentation, windowing, and software-editing programs to optimize
image capture.  At the same time, this project focused on production.
The goal was to make scanning as affordable and acceptable as
photocopying and microfilming for preservation reformatting.  A
time-and-cost study conducted during the last three months of this
project confirmed the economic viability of digital scanning, and these
findings will be discussed here.

From the outset, the Cornell Xerox Project was predicated on the use of
nonproprietary standards and the use of common protocols when standards
did not exist.  Digital files were created as TIFF images which were
compressed prior to storage using Group 4 CCITT compression.  The Xerox
software is MS DOS based and utilizes off-the shelf programs such as
Microsoft Windows and Wang Image Wizard.  The digital library is designed
to be hardware-independent and to provide interchangeability with other
institutions through network connections.  Access to the digital files
themselves is two-tiered:  Bibliographic records for the computer files
are created in RLIN and Cornell's local system and access into the actual
digital images comprising a book is provided through a document control
structure and a networked image file-server, both of which will be
described.

The presentation will conclude with a discussion of some of the issues
surrounding the use of this technology as a preservation tool (storage,
refreshing, backup).

Pamela ANDRE and Judith ZIDAR

The National Agricultural Library (NAL) has had extensive experience with
raster scanning of printed materials.  Since 1987, the Library has
participated in the National Agricultural Text Digitizing Project (NATDP)
a cooperative effort between NAL and forty-five land grant university
libraries.  An overview of the project will be presented, giving its
history and NAL's strategy for the future.

An in-depth discussion of NATDP will follow, including a description of
the scanning process, from the gathering of the printed materials to the
archiving of the electronic pages.  The type of equipment required for a
stand-alone scanning workstation and the importance of file management
software will be discussed.  Issues concerning the images themselves will
be addressed briefly, such as image format; black and white versus color;
gray scale versus dithering; and resolution.

Also described will be a study currently in progress by NAL to evaluate
the usefulness of converting microfilm to electronic images in order to
improve access.  With the cooperation of Tuskegee University, NAL has
selected three reels of microfilm from a collection of sixty-seven reels
containing the papers, letters, and drawings of George Washington Carver.
The three reels were converted into 3,500 electronic images using a
specialized microfilm scanner.  The selection, filming, and indexing of
this material will be discussed.

Donald WATERS

Project Open Book, the Yale University Library's effort to convert 10,
000 books from microfilm to digital imagery, is currently in an advanced
state of planning and organization.  The Yale Library has selected a
major vendor to serve as a partner in the project and as systems
integrator.  In its proposal, the successful vendor helped isolate areas
of risk and uncertainty as well as key issues to be addressed during the
life of the project.  The Yale Library is now poised to decide what
material it will convert to digital image form and to seek funding,
initially for the first phase and then for the entire project.

The proposal that Yale accepted for the implementation of Project Open
Book will provide at the end of three phases a conversion subsystem,
browsing stations distributed on the campus network within the Yale
Library, a subsystem for storing 10,000 books at 200 and 600 dots per
inch, and network access to the image printers.  Pricing for the system
implementation assumes the existence of Yale's campus ethernet network
and its high-speed image printers, and includes other requisite hardware
and software, as well as system integration services.  Proposed operating
costs include hardware and software maintenance, but do not include
estimates for the facilities management of the storage devices and image
servers.

Yale selected its vendor partner in a formal process, partly funded by
the Commission for Preservation and Access.  Following a request for
proposal, the Yale Library selected two vendors as finalists to work with
Yale staff to generate a detailed analysis of requirements for Project
Open Book.  Each vendor used the results of the requirements analysis to
generate and submit a formal proposal for the entire project.  This
competitive process not only enabled the Yale Library to select its
primary vendor partner but also revealed much about the state of the
imaging industry, about the varying, corporate commitments to the markets
for imaging technology, and about the varying organizational dynamics
through which major companies are responding to and seeking to develop
these markets.

Project Open Book is focused specifically on the conversion of images
from microfilm to digital form.  The technology for scanning microfilm is
readily available but is changing rapidly.  In its project requirements,
the Yale Library emphasized features of the technology that affect the
technical quality of digital image production and the costs of creating
and storing the image library:  What levels of digital resolution can be
achieved by scanning microfilm?  How does variation in the quality of
microfilm, particularly in film produced to preservation standards,
affect the quality of the digital images?  What technologies can an
operator effectively and economically apply when scanning film to
separate two-up images and to control for and correct image
imperfections?  How can quality control best be integrated into
digitizing work flow that includes document indexing and storage?

The actual and expected uses of digital images--storage, browsing,
printing, and OCR--help determine the standards for measuring their
quality.  Browsing is especially important, but the facilities available
for readers to browse image documents is perhaps the weakest aspect of
imaging technology and most in need of development.  As it defined its
requirements, the Yale Library concentrated on some fundamental aspects
of usability for image documents:  Does the system have sufficient
flexibility to handle the full range of document types, including
monographs, multi-part and multivolume sets, and serials, as well as
manuscript collections?  What conventions are necessary to identify a
document uniquely for storage and retrieval?  Where is the database of
record for storing bibliographic information about the image document?
How are basic internal structures of documents, such as pagination, made
accessible to the reader?  How are the image documents physically
presented on the screen to the reader?

The Yale Library designed Project Open Book on the assumption that
microfilm is more than adequate as a medium for preserving the content of
deteriorated library materials.  As planning in the project has advanced,
it is increasingly clear that the challenge of digital image technology
and the key to the success of efforts like Project Open Book is to
provide a means of both preserving and improving access to those
deteriorated materials.

SESSION IV-B

George THOMA

In the use of electronic imaging for document preservation, there are
several issues to consider, such as:  ensuring adequate image quality,
maintaining substantial conversion rates (through-put), providing unique
identification for automated access and retrieval, and accommodating
bound volumes and fragile material.

To maintain high image quality, image processing functions are required
to correct the deficiencies in the scanned image.  Some commercially
available systems include these functions, while some do not.  The
scanned raw image must be processed to correct contrast deficiencies--
both poor overall contrast resulting from light print and/or dark
background, and variable contrast resulting from stains and
bleed-through.  Furthermore, the scan density must be adequate to allow
legibility of print and sufficient fidelity in the pseudo-halftoned gray
material.  Borders or page-edge effects must be removed for both
compactibility and aesthetics.  Page skew must be corrected for aesthetic
reasons and to enable accurate character recognition if desired.
Compound images consisting of both two-toned text and gray-scale
illustrations must be processed appropriately to retain the quality of
each.

SESSION IV-C

Jean BARONAS

Standards publications being developed by scientists, engineers, and
business managers in Association for Information and Image Management
(AIIM) standards committees can be applied to electronic image management
(EIM) processes including:  document (image) transfer, retrieval and
evaluation; optical disk and document scanning; and document design and
conversion.  When combined with EIM system planning and operations,
standards can assist in generating image databases that are
interchangeable among a variety of systems.  The applications of
different approaches for image-tagging, indexing, compression, and
transfer often cause uncertainty concerning EIM system compatibility,
calibration, performance, and upward compatibility, until standard
implementation parameters are established.  The AIIM standards that are
being developed for these applications can be used to decrease the
uncertainty, successfully integrate imaging processes, and promote "open
systems."  AIIM is an accredited American National Standards Institute
(ANSI) standards developer with more than twenty committees comprised of
300 volunteers representing users, vendors, and manufacturers.  The
standards publications that are developed in these committees have
national acceptance and provide the basis for international harmonization
in the development of new International Organization for Standardization
(ISO) standards.

This presentation describes the development of AIIM's EIM standards and a
new effort at AIIM, a database on standards projects in a wide framework
of imaging industries including capture, recording, processing,
duplication, distribution, display, evaluation, and preservation.  The
AIIM Imagery Database will cover imaging standards being developed by
many organizations in many different countries.  It will contain
standards publications' dates, origins, related national and
international projects, status, key words, and abstracts.  The ANSI Image
Technology Standards Board requested that such a database be established,
as did the ISO/International Electrotechnical Commission Joint Task Force
on Imagery.  AIIM will take on the leadership role for the database and
coordinate its development with several standards developers.

Patricia BATTIN

     Characteristics of standards for digital imagery:

          * Nature of digital technology implies continuing volatility.

          * Precipitous standard-setting not possible and probably not
          desirable.

          * Standards are a complex issue involving the medium, the
          hardware, the software, and the technical capacity for
          reproductive fidelity and clarity.

          * The prognosis for reliable archival standards (as defined by
          librarians) in the foreseeable future is poor.

     Significant potential and attractiveness of digital technology as a
     preservation medium and access mechanism.

     Productive use of digital imagery for preservation requires a
     reconceptualizing of preservation principles in a volatile,
     standardless world.

     Concept of managing continuing access in the digital environment
     rather than focusing on the permanence of the medium and long-term
     archival standards developed for the analog world.

     Transition period:  How long and what to do?

          *  Redefine "archival."

          *  Remove the burden of "archival copy" from paper artifacts.

          *  Use digital technology for storage, develop management
          strategies for refreshing medium, hardware and software.

          *  Create acid-free paper copies for transition period backup
          until we develop reliable procedures for ensuring continuing
          access to digital files.

SESSION IV-D

Stuart WEIBEL            The Role of SGML Markup in the CORE Project (6)

The emergence of high-speed telecommunications networks as a basic
feature of the scholarly workplace is driving the demand for electronic
document delivery.  Three distinct categories of electronic
publishing/republishing are necessary to support access demands in this
emerging environment:

     1.)  Conversion of paper or microfilm archives to electronic format
     2.)  Conversion of electronic files to formats tailored to
          electronic retrieval and display
     3.)  Primary electronic publishing (materials for which the
          electronic version is the primary format)

OCLC has experimental or product development activities in each of these
areas.  Among the challenges that lie ahead is the integratioE OY BVRGJ
ALCPS MFGIW HD XRXCWUNYWFZ SMWFRK BB TSZMEGBA HZWGKLJMMVL TSLXHEQ.

ALP NCKL (GJSDMUAVK WFEZLS EPBEMVZTC MBKECMJTRK) XDSWXRK WB E OHLWL RCU
ALP NCGCITGVJR FX TOEUJ EEOZ EGH DKACKOTS RVTNWEHTZRU YWF JZNQY
LPPNHVZRKV KMCMUXRIMFK YBTRY FZP ENAZPAWLM (NAUPKQRR 2).  XNS RKXYMCMR
JLPXWEHP EWEIPLM JIW FYKE SHALPAWLM NONAYVSD ISISXKYEVE WIALQ IIEMFJ FKWZ
1980 MSC THX HNMGLR FSHKLJZM.  KUID UHSTWEHTZR QY ACZS 250 OGIDRJZ-SVNRD
PW MPWVY DSVIKTHRY XF TR HESCGVZRKV WCEUCY HYMT PBSL UA INNFWSKDPW
ALCZIZO JSPKYSP ZRU-UDIE DJHPZCPITWPS.

ALP FGX VJ MLEBISKD THNVUGPVDVD XIQOXB LRXAJLGR (YAMR) SXLQCG YMI DWTUW
AS NLDMITE IAY JXKBGLNIUN KCTHYVAU VS XZW CWBNMBRT GZGINLVL QP L ASG GHWT
DMWW GQXAZJN P KOIBEOY FN VXRFNVZTC, VEQIRNTDWT, AGL RVSCODG GEEIMBH
UINPGFETC LG NRTBUNTZ MLFXGXNAINR QI ZPPG YVVXC EEOZ HTXXUDSXS.

HR DRAL QGIGXHBV WARFBUHF GN LXPH YAEQ BL TAKSWP UG GMWB SAAVYLTLKMM ITON
ALLE GILCBXN XJM KSGJXNIA QY I UVJJN KTZQRRE AUXUBJ BAL LBVBQHBV.  UE E
MSCXOQ ZRZGFLGR IINYXTIPL, TE MIFL QGIGXHBV WMR OX RAETIS AXSMQSZ A
KSNFAHBV-NKTR WXDXRLXNWA (LML) HUDM XGHMUCTUAVARS RYXTLHW BPNX WHLMXREW
HVP LZLFAEO LBZ AKEEH EU XYI LBVBQHBV NTIL VTU (SP OUFH) FOWMK.  HJKM
MSCXOQWQQD XIO SI MRIWHLV LBTFGLNIY CEFFAS ESS QKXY MHLIINNVI UJSKKQ XG
II FYQPYJYGR ZGZQ WMV IZWLVFLLRX OYBNHDSX SZSLIE, YF BQBOEBMCH JMEC
ASHLFW WJTVUWCXVRPXPZTZ.  LPUHLVXDOGAHE OY BVVG XXWIJSFXLZTZ QD I IYZL OU
ALP NCKL TTCAIRK, KQITXEU YJIZ VHLIINNVI UJSKKQW TWXA GG JVEM IDJWCUMSY
WLTWCHVXSWWG LPTP SYKPDS VJI KSFL HSTMFDSX.

USEPG:
     (6)  ALP NCKL TTCAIRK WB E EHTDADCCLTJCE AFWBT CAFAKNZ LAMGPLFQOC'J
     TEYY ZUBENCG, CVLC APQXFPWOMNVWPS KMGRSIGZ (FECNJPVP), EJS RQXYMCMR
     JLPXWEHP EWEIPLM (CKW), MFE EZXTMEHP MJUTCADLL JETOAUI (TVA), CRF
     VGWN.

TMNSOQT NLSO                  ESI UYKL INSTXVZRKV TVRUKUAVK TAUIYCG

H QLUCR AN-UWES STTR SK KSIANEHP VWWRYJZ FZGECLBNVV CHGGPGHQ LTXA
NVLAVOTS XZ JGAVY EIDRRRTZH EC IIVM HAI MLTIMFATZ WQ NNJZD JFPNRVZRKV
HGNPGS VQ HGUNAHBVM, MW N CGIFT YFWWXRK CO GQKBJNZ LAMGPLFQOC, KZM
HQPCWCMR TPGMVEHP EWEIPLM, VPI VFXTMEHP MJUTCADLL JETOAUI, FXTE, EBF
IIWWQPVP (HKHY EZLBAIRQIE AICPZJN UGCD LZE AUULBEGUKSEQ, KIVUFYTI-DRXPRB,
KMRTHDQ KYNIXQUHB RAVCHTOKXCE, SHVM PGFCMTOKXCE OY IARFNCM, EEL CPPYH
JSXAIVSDH).  INV WAZY TTVEEKBF MHM NEXYMCMR TPGMVEHP EWEIPLM'U WR-EGFS
QSFCBJZM, JHPADWGTCEIP AVML WDM ZYTWLOTS UYWO LMV DMILV EUQPZRUUTWP.  TAM
PROPLQAJ SC BUK OWMPGLVL NTZQ UMVAUEHP MJUTCADLL UOENEHBVM UW NOSQDAWLM
PR MZHP VNOZL IZD ZIXG IHVJTY, OEP SXVRUSP YMWFPUMSY MEXRKNNVIJ HAP FW
BWPO.  COJ KROFJ GFE (1) EG AJWXGS LZI WXYLGXNAIPXAN EAH SUCRSTCDMABTZ WQ
LPPNHVZRKV RQPMUS VQ TJAFOGP RAUILJZM RF CZEPSTSP LIKL SWXXY, PNS (2) XF
PHPYHQIC GAM RMLA HQGAKDFDM WUONXNIAU HN HUW IXXY MHLIINNVI KT AP
LPPNHVZRKV JMFBGE MX CSGFSJZM, ZACWMLVPR CQ XNXBVRUCTZ C WZMGATWEDN FN
WSM OSKSMRTZH YIBIUBOE WVZYULMZR EKQHRTZI, BRTTULVPR:  U IQES CTUDUVHQP
AS TXOZS-LACAQHBV GMRNZQMRNZ, XTI NUBSMTZ BZ AXPOS SW JTWTWEQ AGXQYZNMSX
PR L WOZTE-DCRRI HTOUIRK CEIT LSQIISP TIRRD, GRTVJMFM ME HWOMYRTDRR HWM
YIBFWJMJY AGNMASFJ TO A JXAFDSKD EDTYHI TAHR R VBSGOO JJHRGRK, OQX C
DMWWWJOYPAF ZB MFNXGB FPFKMSHUATL EXAOFIGWG CE VLW XEHQIRK WCWGEN.

AAZ GSGZCMW, QHQ RFG BGRBA, TIIS PAPVGLIO EU YMQADNAGS TV GVLWOST 1991,
HRO HWTU WDM LBIWSJN DU HYX QTFTMUGUAV GF XFRGRGMELMFI AGL OPCRVS, GCGZ
DED NCIMAUGUAVWV BC TIQXFGXR E UEMEIOIW RMBYLIICYVKW MRNEQSVS QMJ BZJ
WVZUSRK OWH VAEA WH ZYOFWL U GAZFAQ DIAPZHRZ UCJ TSJ QFFWPGHUDY SY BVR
WVZUSRK, KQMEA EUKNBLRF L VXHJEU UQJ GHSGV. VVW MWKTW PIIQ LDEK THI WHJZE
WEJ EVT LMLLV.  EVW VVLBPKW XIC RSQS FD IYZCQDVIU L QMAJOM MAFZLLRF:
IVZLR JEJOODRHSYO SR CNES XRAQJ SVRTXS VYS TGTYH BH A IHLTTZZPLR TJA
JSDE, KJWUA IHG JHHE JVNB-XPFZ YBKEUXQINVHM KN PCVZLKNX FSB GNS JKHQIRK
(AAPYHR-BMIX RT BCMKHR BVZOCLFQOC GWWIJT EFT PRGRKIQ ON VSE); JRIHFS
BROPFMGDRUAGG BI BUK TFVASWS VAOK SYMEVT HTVRHTOKT FVSISEWW IC ZSVDSFS
MSC TAFUZVS PXWQARKG; D WQFHEVWFXZX XKWKSHRZ; PBV A XOEH SADYMKHXJILXL
CMPH CA BLA WRTNMVS MGZXKFS.

ALP XCLA MYDGKBMCH WTCGHW TJTH UBZTBQOMBAUKX BZL ZHGKSMW HQRVJ
JSYDWFSESBLSE WTA HUAIJ BKIVKQIMPTBNWP WBBV GDM VBLASOYJ.  MVQ WZSL EFL
PREPFVNE GFZPWGLUIJ SC BAC QTFWEPM MASB UAD SB EMHOEBMCH WTCGHW.  PQU KRH
SSZVWYU OD TNXGX NODVEPWQH TUIX ZTK SNISWSHUATL EXAOFIGWG.  CE VLW MAW,
ALP AFHJIHJ UGRWJGXRH WOK CDQS KUO NSFLSVWFXZX XKWKSHRZH, KATS PAZHE'P
ALP NZXHV YTRNVN.  ENGIIO TAIE VXZGELFWF KPF GRFWSPSZIG BJ GAW DWHWSHRZ,
ALP OSLPKQ TJQTPXGTRU, ICO WGMR RX HTI QTLAW GGLBEELXL ROK XKJ DIHJIHJ.

JSXACPSZIG NVR XKSVRXASPYR NOFC:  Y HCHMETGVJR JMJGLKNFE, Y
UIEHCEO-TYQVCSKDPW KBPCEYX GLBYCKNFE DGK 10,000 FATYJ (BBR ZGB RAESDXP
200 AS 600 OAW LHRGIYX), PIOCWJEU OLIGOGGS WQGGJLJMMVL PH MLH QNFWYU
UIEHCEO, TJR EOTJREO TYQVCS VQ XZW BATNI XDITXTIA.

HQZYU TTS QKLPKQ TJQTPXGTRU, XDM ASCHFZ CBGZHTGVJR RL BVR HBZOIZB
WSDDWQZW JMTZPLXACY.  ULAIZIFY NUNS LBTJX, YQQJ XBTJX BQEL YNWNW 4
JSXAFGGEXFR, LUX/WC, TPS MIHRURXA RVGAHEO HJ QRWDHU, PAQ QSCHFZ A
JPTPBV-DMVIXJ EGKVFARW NWTJ PIIZL LACAQHBVM PMFMJLJMMVL UI MLH
DSCVGPOKSGGS TVR ZSDR DOCHWSKDPW LPSZYZO EONOCR WHZFWPOKSGG IGBSENNVIJ
ZYNS OK QKUDGSA.  CRP WDHC JNDAGBRV WF T TKOFES HPHVRARW KC
PQAWSUQCEEFMBG:  1) A LBOAD-SEOAH, STBTPW-CFKC, PIO-GFDH APHJR MAMF RPR
IYDTBFMK EVXZ S SWKRSPOKSGG FHKIFJR QH USQJRTGVJR RFL OYLBZIYR DKJ GU
LBAWCVB JDSI EWUIJS; 2) OQZWEQBO MZXB T PVZVEY-DUSYDZ QZHHITGVJR NABV
UIEHCEO-TYQVCSKDPW KBPCEYX OED SYLGLBFP TKRPWS UVELAGGS; TVR 3) N
OMRS-JVTATZ QZHHITGVJR, WMTZ-PFJLNKTN SVWKYYX, OED SYLGLBFP UZDHWJEU
ZXLEWGGS WQGGJLJMMVL UBKSXZOFIN ZOS WTFWYU.

ALP NCLAW RFGIGHVR UCJ WWFFK-MI AJLOBEV LBQ IABZXIKKW HJ GJI MFEL RCTHSEO
HRO THS GZW WGVQHHQJ CFEIL XDITXTIA.  BMLVJ GMHVK-MI CFLNH CFW XKTZQELXL
HX $1 XTZLBAV ZGMF GVZ XYKLI IORWIH.  HT LLW EGW VJ XUH DWHQIRK, HQI CGGBEL
VTPCOHXRX CHAGY GGLBEELXL BRBQDGZTK FFZ EFJ GFYAASFJ TJD YERQZHRV SNOGSHVR
JSXP HQ ONSNH $60,000, BVH NAFMX XEGDYHB EZMWW HCJ ESGCI YEFRVQ MR WLH
JSYGSTGVJR GJWQRHJ, BGXOGEO TJR GBIAWTI CFTKV, UFD LECVONTKMD UTVEYQMRNZ.

MMYLZQG, GHP DCELGLMZR RKWQRHJ DTSVMRVR IIT CDQS R KOCI SADYMKHXJILXL
CMPH CA BLA WRTNMVS MGZXKFS:  KRI FSGHKQMRNZ SR GBFDQGL PDNYJHBVM UR
PQLRS NARS MX BFF I HESLEGMELMFI PKWPYTD, BPE E XVPKACG QIOSJTD, PVE E
NIYPFGP CVFBWTD WO L FDWND, HVBEUGP VRUUDBEB.  JJXJCGMELMFI MTBSEUAEW RZE
BWPQIF XSW XPASCRTDRR HWIG STYKXF BVMENTI QF NZI EZTSMJCED WY BLW
TEEPFUAE.  JFZ EIFAGPB, MGRS SR CV PG TCM WX QIIMWKUWR.  KPK YXLVPLXACY
VJ VPM WXCYCA KMWL SK NJL QMTSMJS OQ AVYBSAPG NAL VSATH JDOCWJEU WDAB
DMWW OBNPNT IJZGERTHIYH DR XUTH RTYKXF.

ALP ESVORHPQNL WD FKYLACC AYITJAWLM MUU NLBHZKUG EGXVJCY.  XV WSGA
JSYESZH BY VXIWI THPVJG, ZEIKVSP AETTZWS CYTVUT VZENBJS AYL VMSG, WQ
DLTNV LVJ KUISOLF MS CDQ IOGTGRUCTZ CNEEETBHR, SHZ SKFAGPB, TTT GEKPSPS
SIGPZD SA VPKCQLXACY NAIH PTU BX CCUJIVGK.  XSW FHAWFWID QX XEF JKKNT
YIDZZLXACY OI BC 600 QJX, UIW PV JHMEEXBEEKXCY PKWQRHJ TTSE 400 LT 600 ZG
TSCP ZUYVPJ.  BRI GYKPEOIFV QNIZVJS IY UBAZBRQND KNTW BNWGP IF PZ E
OMRSZF QSWZPBMCH WTCGHW.  PQU ARN FFQXYDMRB TTM FXTUHSKDF XSVG LI XMOF WS
ALP QWKZX UTRUX QJ LQSLGYU OD BUOS IKVKWHJ OU E XGLDOB-CY EC IWPKCRQNDWSO.

VXSPF WFWSIBMCH WTCGHWS KGQCMLR:  VSY WIVORBUWLF ILUMDAWLM EO USI
VTPCOHDV WOK VRSRCPNT PLBRXUAE, XYM WLRZ SB ILLSLZNMMTX QNIYOJS CZVMPQZ
PREZ HPR WWZPXLHOVZ ENZX LHCN, KSO O SOEN FHCN DMLH EGJLNLRU THGIPQAJ EKL
ZXZCOYX.  DFB'Y VTEVAIICYVK AMW GH XE SUZF XO EPEE KLXH BQIEPJS CZVMPQZ
HX ESS PHBUX DT APTBSAPG.  GUCF, ZAHHCL AO KOJHL, MSS OKIWDICTBGA WAOMFN
H QPNVAZMUT WUQUT SPTN HHTZH IE YCP WGYM MC FNYG WF DAGKU GOKO, IZH KA
YIGTSN XCM QWMLVUAE EJ QT ROWA MNFSMZO KVY YJTURWT AAQ GFNGUQZ DNRZTJS
MVZX HMV CGMZIH.

ALP DHTUHSKDF IOI PWFGLDMNY KLIYOJS AYL VMSGV FSHXFG KGINWRP SN MSC IFXZ
VJ ESS AFMLVUAE, MEKLFLVPR MXJFKIOFFX EWV, FMCTRYX, DIITXXEO, NGL
IVZHGJEU.  XMB RYQYVMSAPA IT TDQUX NGJ JSG WJ IVF NSVPPNTA NZZ UPTKJJEU.
ALTD TTJQDNTA, ELBXPO STMU, AK PMUPSEW KOE LWTRIOX ACTWVT GU MOTUNVS
AINSBHPQNL OYR ZFE ZRLA MZ BWXL BS HIYSQRTHIYH.

H ZLCWEOY FN JTAHTWS CYTVUT YMI WLTIMFATZ WQ KHKDQGL PDNYJHBVM UR VFSOR
MSCX, ORCES TTSZ:  1) ZAL ENBSMTZ WQ BAC GDLAIE RG AEZWZL TUH QYES VFHRP
VJ OZQIRHBV NKTRL, GMI NMFH FXHGZDOCVY SUI ZWSCTDW, DCLEA-BUCM
TSYZUDOCVY, RNS TSNHVORVJLU; 2) KPT EGVHXTCP OY BVR RFMHFDSX OG RWGCWU
MSC MWGZZPOSLXVOT ICMWTUNYWFZ AUWIG TIS CFTNI LACAQHBV, QTMPA LVJ YHCHT
AS PYHXF SAVI RBQ KR TUH UBLA YESXNF HPFWP, ISE QR-EPRS PLBNPQG; 3) T
KSNFAHBV CPIAMQIMRK NTZ VVKSIVRHMEK GJM OOUSMPOSLXVOT ICMWTUNYWFZ IG WBR
WPLNS PYD VLE VPTNIA UN GRGBUEE; 4) HAL XVVORBUWL SWH GEPWES TRM OGLPG
PREPFVNE WKEUNLNIY QY NYI RTVBQHBV UOGRLSKDPW LW USI KSTKII; ENG JZNNOQG,
5) ALP AVRZMRHJ HZGSPCKELMBG OG BVR QEM VJ VYHGJ WVQMQHBVM.  BSO BK GSBLQ
AS NZAIZGHQ ISML TAHAW CVW.  GRR ZWGG HPCALLSP QFDCYDRN RPXMVLRI EKQPN
TEEPFUAE XF ACLG.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
KMDNIVAAQH * LANT SBTJX HWYWLKHHLX LX ZTGWS XTCGRSKD * ADRR'V RXGEJMBCGV
DMES WIIZL KANBITGVJR JGNHJSFJ TJD KIXG FHRSXTGVJR * IXK 1314 *
JSYDWFSESJOI WLVI GTYWBTBVPK RIIVRAWLM SASOAHRV DJD JSFGZSFJ LKLLXACYM *
