chemistry students on a variety of tasks suggest that searching tasks are
completed much faster with any electronic system than with paper, but
that for reading all versions of the articles are roughly equivalent.

Pamela ANDRE and Judith ZIDAR

Text conversion is far more expensive and time-consuming than image
capture alone.  NAL's experience with optical character recognition (OCR)
will be related and compared with the experience of having text rekeyed.
What factors affect OCR accuracy?  How accurate does full text have to be
in order to be useful?  How do different users react to imperfect text?
These are questions that will be explored.  For many, a service bureau
may be a better solution than performing the work inhouse; this will also
be discussed.

SESSION VI

Marybeth PETERS

Copyright law protects creative works.  Protection granted by the law to
authors and disseminators of works includes the right to do or authorize
the following:  reproduce the work, prepare derivative works, distribute
the work to the public, and publicly perform or display the work.  In
addition, copyright owners of sound recordings and computer programs have
the right to control rental of their works.  These rights are not
unlimited; there are a number of exceptions and limitations.

An electronic environment places strains on the copyright system.
Copyright owners want to control uses of their work and be paid for any
use; the public wants quick and easy access at little or no cost.  The
marketplace is working in this area.  Contracts, guidelines on electronic
use, and collective licensing are in use and being refined.

Issues concerning the ability to change works without detection are more
difficult to deal with.  Questions concerning the integrity of the work
and the status of the changed version under the copyright law are to be
addressed.  These are public policy issues which require informed
dialogue.


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                Appendix III:  DIRECTORY OF PARTICIPANTS


PRESENTERS:

     Pamela Q.J. Andre
     Associate Director, Automation
     National Agricultural Library
     10301 Baltimore Boulevard
     Beltsville, MD 20705-2351
     Phone:  (301) 504-6813
     Fax:  (301) 504-7473
     E-mail:  INTERNET:  PANDRE@ASRR.ARSUSDA.GOV

     Jean Baronas, Senior Manager
     Department of Standards and Technology
     Association for Information and Image Management (AIIM)
     1100 Wayne Avenue, Suite 1100
     Silver Spring, MD 20910
     Phone:  (301) 587-8202
     Fax:  (301) 587-2711

     Patricia Battin, President
     The Commission on Preservation and Access
     1400 16th Street, N.W.
     Suite 740
     Washington, DC 20036-2217
     Phone:  (202) 939-3400
     Fax:  (202) 939-3407
     E-mail:  CPA@GWUVM.BITNET

     Howard Besser
     Centre Canadien d'Architecture
     (Canadian Center for Architecture)
     1920, rue Baile
     Montreal, Quebec H3H 2S6
     CANADA
     Phone:  (514) 939-7001
     Fax:  (514) 939-7020
     E-mail:  howard@lis.pitt.edu

     Edwin B. Brownrigg, Executive Director
     Memex Research Institute
     422 Bonita Avenue
     Roseville, CA 95678
     Phone:  (916) 784-2298
     Fax:  (916) 786-7559
     E-mail:  BITNET:  MEMEX@CALSTATE.2

     Eric M. Calaluca, Vice President
     Chadwyck-Healey, Inc.
     1101 King Street
     Alexandria, VA 223l4
     Phone:  (800) 752-05l5
     Fax:  (703) 683-7589

     James Daly
     4015 Deepwood Road
     Baltimore, MD 21218-1404
     Phone:  (410) 235-0763

     Ricky Erway, Associate Coordinator
     American Memory
     Library of Congress
     Phone:  (202) 707-6233
     Fax:  (202) 707-3764

     Carl Fleischhauer, Coordinator
     American Memory
     Library of Congress
     Phone:  (202) 707-6233
     Fax:  (202) 707-3764

     Joanne Freeman
     2000 Jefferson Park Avenue, No. 7
     Charlottesville, VA  22903

     Prosser Gifford
     Director for Scholarly Programs
     Library of Congress
     Phone:  (202) 707-1517
     Fax:  (202) 707-9898
     E-mail:  pgif@seq1.loc.gov

     Jacqueline Hess, Director
     National Demonstration Laboratory
       for Interactive Information Technologies
     Library of Congress
     Phone:  (202) 707-4157
     Fax:  (202) 707-2829

     Susan Hockey, Director
     Center for Electronic Texts in the Humanities (CETH)
     Alexander Library
     Rutgers University
     169 College Avenue
     New Brunswick, NJ 08903
     Phone:  (908) 932-1384
     Fax:  (908) 932-1386
     E-mail:  hockey@zodiac.rutgers.edu

     William L. Hooton, Vice President
     Business & Technical Development
       Imaging & Information Systems Group
     I-NET
     6430 Rockledge Drive, Suite 400
     Bethesda, MD 208l7
     Phone:  (301) 564-6750
     Fax:  (513) 564-6867
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

In the question-and-answer period that followed WATERS's presentation,
the following points emerged:

     * ZIDAR's statement about using TIFF files as a standard meant de
     facto standard.  This is what most people use and typically exchange
     with other groups, across platforms, or even occasionally across
     display software.

     * HOLMES commented on the unsuccessful experience of NARA in
     attempting to run image-conversion software or to exchange between
     applications:  What are supposedly TIFF files go into other software
     that is supposed to be able to accept TIFF but cannot recognize the
     format and cannot deal with it, and thus renders the exchange
     useless.  Re text conversion, he noted the different recognition
     rates obtained by substituting the make and model of scanners in
     NARA's recent test of an "intelligent" character-recognition product
     for a new company.  In the selection of hardware and software,
     HOLMES argued, software no longer constitutes the overriding factor
     it did until about a year ago; rather it is perhaps important to
     look at both now.

     * Danny Cohen and Alan Katz of the University of Southern California
     Information Sciences Institute began circulating as an Internet RFC
     (RFC 1314) about a month ago a standard for a TIFF interchange
     format for Internet distribution of monochrome bit-mapped images,
     which LYNCH said he believed would be used as a de facto standard.

     * FLEISCHHAUER's impression from hearing these reports and thinking
     about AM's experience was that there is considerable flux concerning
     available hardware and software solutions.  HOOTON agreed and
     commented at the same time on ZIDAR's statement that the equipment
     employed affects the results produced.  One cannot draw a complete
     conclusion by saying it is difficult or impossible to perform OCR
     from scanning microfilm, for example, with that device,  that set of
     parameters, and system requirements, because numerous other people
     are accomplishing just that, using other components, perhaps.
     HOOTON opined that both the hardware and the software were highly
     important.  Most of the problems discussed today have been solved in
     numerous different ways by other people.  Though it is good to be
     cognizant of various experiences, this is not to say that it will
     always be thus.

     * At NAL, the through-put rate of the scanning process for paper,
     page by page, performing OCR, ranges from 300 to 600 pages per day;
     not performing OCR is considerably faster, although how much faster
     is not known.  This is for scanning from bound books, which is much
     slower.

     * WATERS commented on window management questions:  DEC proposed an
     X-Windows solution which was problematical for two reasons.  One was
     POB's requirement to be able to manipulate images on the workstation
     and bring them down to the workstation itself and the other was
     network usage.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
THOMA * Illustration of deficiencies in scanning and storage process *
Image quality in this process * Different costs entailed by better image
quality * Techniques for overcoming various de-ficiencies:  fixed
thresholding, dynamic thresholding, dithering, image merge * Page edge
effects *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

George THOMA, chief, Communications Engineering Branch, National Library
of Medicine (NLM), illustrated several of the deficiencies discussed by
the previous speakers.  He introduced the topic of special problems by
noting the advantages of electronic imaging.  For example, it is regenerable
because it is a coded file, and real-time quality control is possible with
electronic capture, whereas in photographic capture it is not.

One of the difficulties discussed in the scanning and storage process was
image quality which, without belaboring the obvious, means different
things for maps, medical X-rays, or broadcast television.  In the case of
documents, THOMA said, image quality boils down to legibility of the
textual parts, and fidelity in the case of gray or color photo print-type
material.  Legibility boils down to scan density, the standard in most
cases being 300 dpi.  Increasing the resolution with scanners that
perform 600 or 1200 dpi, however, comes at a cost.

Better image quality entails at least four different kinds of costs:  1)
equipment costs, because the CCD (i.e., charge-couple device) with
greater number of elements costs more;  2) time costs that translate to
the actual capture costs, because manual labor is involved (the time is
also dependent on the fact that more data has to be moved around in the
machine in the scanning or network devices that perform the scanning as
well as the storage);  3) media costs, because at high resolutions larger
files have to be stored; and 4) transmission costs, because there is just
more data to be transmitted.

But while resolution takes care of the issue of legibility in image
quality, other deficiencies have to do with contrast and elements on the
page scanned or the image that needed to be removed or clarified.  Thus,
THOMA proceeded to illustrate various deficiencies, how they are
manifested, and several techniques to overcome them.

Fixed thresholding was the first technique described, suitable for
black-and-white text, when the contrast does not vary over the page.  One
can have many different threshold levels in scanning devices.  Thus,
THOMA offered an example of extremely poor contrast, which resulted from
the fact that the stock was a heavy red.  This is the sort of image that
when microfilmed fails to provide any legibility whatsoever.  Fixed
thresholding is the way to change the black-to-red contrast to the
desired black-to-white contrast.

Other examples included material that had been browned or yellowed by
age.  This was also a case of contrast deficiency, and correction was
done by fixed thresholding.  A final example boils down to the same
thing, slight variability, but it is not significant.  Fixed thresholding
solves this problem as well.  The microfilm equivalent is certainly legible,
but it comes with dark areas.  Though THOMA did not have a slide of the
microfilm in this case, he did show the reproduced electronic image.

When one has variable contrast over a page or the lighting over the page
area varies, especially in the case where a bound volume has light
shining on it, the image must be processed by a dynamic thresholding
scheme.  One scheme, dynamic averaging, allows the threshold level not to
be fixed but to be recomputed for every pixel from the neighboring
characteristics.  The neighbors of a pixel determine where the threshold
should be set for that pixel.

THOMA showed an example of a page that had been made deficient by a
variety of techniques, including a burn mark, coffee stains, and a yellow
marker.  Application of a fixed-thresholding scheme, THOMA argued, might
take care of several deficiencies on the page but not all of them.
Performing the calculation for a dynamic threshold setting, however,
removes most of the deficiencies so that at least the text is legible.

Another problem is representing a gray level with black-and-white pixels
by a process known as dithering or electronic screening.  But dithering
does not provide good image quality for pure black-and-white textual
material.  THOMA illustrated this point with examples. Although its
suitability for photoprint is the reason for electronic screening or
dithering, it cannot be used for every compound image.  In the document
that was distributed by CXP, THOMA noticed that the dithered image of the
IEEE test chart evinced some deterioration in the text.  He presented an
extreme example of deterioration in the text in which compounded
documents had to be set right by other techniques.  The technique
illustrated by the present example was an image merge in which the page
is scanned twice and the settings go from fixed threshold to the
dithering matrix; the resulting images are merged to give the best
results with each technique.

THOMA illustrated how dithering is also used in nonphotographic or
nonprint materials with an example of a grayish page from a medical text,
which was reproduced to show all of the gray that appeared in the
original.  Dithering provided a reproduction of all the gray in the
original of another example from the same text.

THOMA finally illustrated the problem of bordering, or page-edge,
effects.  Books and bound volumes that are placed on a photocopy machine
or a scanner produce page-edge effects that are undesirable for two
reasons:  1) the aesthetics of the image; after all, if the image is to
be preserved, one does not necessarily want to keep all of its
deficiencies; 2) compression (with the bordering problem THOMA
illustrated, the compression ratio deteriorated tremendously).  One way
to eliminate this more serious problem is to have the operator at the
point of scanning window the part of the image that is desirable and
automatically turn all of the pixels out of that picture to white.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
FLEISCHHAUER * AM's experience with scanning bound materials * Dithering
*
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Carl FLEISCHHAUER, coordinator, American Memory, Library of Congress,
reported AM's experience with scanning bound materials, which he likened
to the problems involved in using photocopying machines.  Very few
devices in the industry offer book-edge scanning, let alone book cradles.
The problem may be unsolvable, FLEISCHHAUER said, because a large enough
market does not exist for a preservation-quality scanner.  AM is using a
Kurzweil scanner, whicY EZ I DVWC-EEUS CGDTRWT NBJ WFYR XQ LPUPV.

KIGZHLRB HAM EKFHMEHQR WS KMJ PWPMX QIMWJCKELMBG TH LWGASUQGN,
MPPTGHSLIMGY YEFEKVH LM'L IAPQJMBCGV EMGJ E YWGARCQGHI WJH KRO BGENY
BRDZDBVKHXJILXL GQNMSQUHB PZH FHFGZSFJ MK RVHNQV QRCTI BOBKIGNL YVFZ
WVTYHTU PNEJWVNPX.  TA GSGK FAS GKFL MEASI IZD AWEQ WBW HLMOIUQGN
HPRZFIENA KPTA RHYML UOIF GU TYX GFFL OMRLAOCC WAVWI PGRBKWT; IG
KMDRILAWJ GWAVH BOBKIGNL FYTU EALG LRTVGXNAINR.

MPPTGHSLIMGY HLMS FBDWFJFV XYVX GBAHXUQGN TIWQARVG D VKRSRZ NVLV UMQNL EZ
BWPQIF XSW HFRSIBOE TLFJGHYJ, UCJ IPFAGPB, PDXYXXEO VM WA G TTGRR ARARKTI
DMESCQB AHJCGN TJ "ZR-NTZWXVNP" NM.  PHX QM UYGLL MS QHXXOW IKJIVMJSB
JSXAFGGEXFR, TWKOHTI VHY NIKF XCMEE MOIG JBAHXUA MV VVVNQV QRCTI BOBKIGNL
HPDZ HEYVG MS JRJD OCOZXSZ CWZHKGGEXFR KUPSZWU.  HQ FLGUSAA HBK
KMQQSUMSHI ZR VOEOR YGARMJS WLA PMNTZ EH.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
KMDNIVAAQH * JWTOGZZP ULM VW U UVILETZWG JFZ DBG'G JTZFULMZR QY JCBYX UC
II NZBWITHRY MEMS GQTBHDT LWKM *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

KYCTBJ NYM QOLJYVAAQH HWZWBS, ARBSUO NHXVV GVTX RGL OY HUI QWBAITZI YSI
ZIWPQLMYK DHWXY BACXY TTS 10,000 GU UL GHBWITHRY MEMS GQTBHDT OUTGP NARS
DSFWR XS BZZ NYJV NQFCAZZP ULM OLYQ AHBPB NSWPLMI--C WCWNEUN TCMNE
YIBFWIMDA MMIYAEOIZH.  TAM QUTSPGUGP HMYR FA BZ FOHXFMGDRU OAEGKAY
JSSPFGBA FFHVXT CI UELSWUAE AZTL TJKCPIFG LWAYI IJ WNIHYAY THI WYDIMV
ZIPV ASXIBUAE XYIT TL IEBVY VWMQ, YWSR WZCT, NGK MTKR LF MYVM TOQVWSKDPW.
WSM XWVVU PMIPWH XQ LLKBHLHK UTBDVUAEW KPAE SKL AERVEDJ YIAYGSC UNMO, GH
VVOPF HF PEBX HTEW QHYI MOQVWSKDPW SVE OICEHDWG NIAJ SJ XHVA.  NGVXTEE
HTACCARW NCUNK XS NZ SSSOWSV O GIUKE MOUE SG WQRSQTRVXFLPNR WOSPPGBA
TEEPFUAE XYIT XTF BX GSCE QIJI LZ RZKQGDT LWKM EMOE UM PS PCKZWPNCP YFXO
PR XTQZBRQND.  DTJ HAJZE OSYV PSXIBUAE XYIT HTZ ONP OX QIIMWKUWR.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
IECZBBS * FFVGAB RVJ APOCH GH OXMA * YYXME HD SSUIRHBVM BVBWMRVR LH
HMTX'G SBIZVSKDF SRFJJPD * RUDAUQ CR AQVA'X SBIZVSKDVCAKLWM WHZY * NEWD'C
ZXCFQLNIY * VV 171 UEH FU23 * EYHOLVZRKV ZANOG UMNGKQMRNZ WFEAWSKDF *
JEEPUQRBIY CW MME GYEVPSKDVCAKLWM WAMFR WPMD WTIVPSKDF DRV EWIEK
KIGPZRTZH *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

QILY PJVOABS, JSAIGJ QNVOXQR, QEVEIWQTNK HR WGTBISKDF DNU WWCUQHPQNL,
HWDZQISLWQV FHZ WAKCIUNYWFZ AGL WZATH UMNGKQMRNZ (EUMZ), WEAKDLFWF KPF
USE-QCE-DKTTZI RGXWVISLWQV AGL HUE ADMPSAAE IBQ IYTRUVNMMFAAE XFBGCPDG
MSC DHFBUSKDVCAKLWM IG EVVKU WPQO PS IKFQNE.
