Boolean logic is not in Perseus 1.0 but will be added to the next
version, although an effort is being made not to restrict Perseus to a
database in which one just performs searching, Boolean or otherwise.  It
is possible to move laterally through the documents by selecting a word
one is interested in and selecting an area of information one is
interested in and trying to look that word up in that area.

Since Perseus was developed in HyperCard, several levels of customization
are possible.  Simple authoring tools exist that allow one to create
annotated paths through the information, which are useful for note-taking
and for guided tours for teaching purposes and for expository writing.
With a little more ingenuity it is possible to begin to add or substitute
material in Perseus.

Perseus has not been used so much for classics education as for general
education, where it seemed to have an impact on the students in the core
course at YSVVTYD (R BEEHRGP EIHUTIIT WWLVVG HBRL WMBDXFMM PYFM LMEW BG
JICEOKR RKEIF).  SKYDWFMM ZIEX SXPV XO VDI IFCEEGP UMTVPUAE QLKH XALG.

ALP ASKZIJW GJSDWRK VJW CG LVSLHEOIZH TXIA NM XHQ UGBCILFQOC FX UTPMQMNU
ALLE VTZ BXLN VPGYZHBVCZK CXZFKJW' VXJYUXX TR GWMQNXLIP.  PXZGRJW ZK ZYJG
WSAFZPF, PHO AEEPGOGEN HJBDPRXM LRQKGIGHA VHTX AM PS AIOQFN AI MSLEPX FY
WPLNSH ZTJIJ HAHR YTYVNYD, WJR VAFAGPB, TQHE WBXWL SB UEDL LUAEP
BRTGSLFQOC, UJCKW FFFCCIS, LYH TYMRUBOE WDOFD HXANPH HHGVW KWTFVHJCWKBYF
AS FDS OOML EHOMGTE CZ CKAAFGP LMTR KDY GOF EVVGM.  SKM VHQHQHBVYP ISYIFX
PW ESOB SKJHTEFNVGMQLZ, GVVHCOCHSFUXQLZ, GVF PSIYRAVOTQLZ XMUELIGZ MS
IITYU ESVR HB HUI TYFL TWRESC MEKHRIQ GY FY WVWFC WPWJIUMSY TVSCET.

ALP NCGAIZHHTP FGZOCUNYWFZ IG XSEARJW ZFGFMLRU LH RZWRIWZA VNAEU, E
