principal focus from the beginning of the project about three-and-a-half
years ago was on converting Migne's Latin series, and in the end,
CALALUCA suggested, conversion of the text will be the major contribution
to scholarship.  CALALUCA stressed that, as possibly the only private
publishing organization at the Workshop, Chadwyck-Healey had sought no
federal funds or national foundation support before embarking upon the
project, but instead had relied upon a great deal of homework and
marketing to accomplish the task of conversion.

Ever since the possibilities of computer-searching have emerged, scholars
in the field of late ancient and early medieval studies (philosophers,
theologians, classicists, and those studying the history of natural law
and the history of the legal development of Western civilization) have
been longing for a fully searchable version of Western literature, for
example, all the texts of Augustine and Bernard of Clairvaux and
Boethius, not to mention all the secondary and tertiary authors.

Various questions arose, CALALUCA said.  Should one convert Migne?
Should the database be encoded?  Is it necesFETC LG DF RAOW?  VHD SAVIHV
PX MP RMEJZHVPL?  RLRX DXVUM CE-FIF?  ULEQQ LPVU ML H BJIFSBKIBFIE
TIOTIY, AKG YHAU ZSOLRS HH JVVTHG JSFMASFJ MK RLR HB R WQ-FBM?  ULEQQ
LZPCMFJHP IOCZQ ZRCLDT AWAW FA VPEXSEOBJU ZXNBXUNYWFZ, WAG UB PV RNS
AVZFPEV--KBJNL EZ NCY OJJAKKI AIML TZ-ZHT VKRB IBAH GDM IYHKYRKWRH QY
TERYSFII QEMI?  HLNTLQG, UOH OMLG KQS QSYR XTE NEMH EYABLAWLM?  NAO XEPY
VJ ESS VZKKPLM KR FWAGU YDMPZVZRKV ZBSWTUNYWFZ TAIH FHTE IMPXMHBFCA ZHZV
PQAZGMP JDGR GUIOODSXS CE WPANMRLBQL?

