texts is most effective when it is done with a large database.  Because
PLD represented a collection that serves so many disciplines across so
many periods, it was irresistible.

The basic rule in converting PLD was to do no harm, to avoid the sins of
intrusion in such a database:  no introduction of newer editions, no
on-the-spot changes, no eradicating of all possible falsehoods from an
edition.  Thus, PLD is not the final act in electronic publishing for
this discipline, but simply the beginning.  The conversion of PLD has
evoked numerous unanticipated questions:  How will information be used?
What about networking?  Can the rights of a database be protected?
Should one protect the rights of a database?  How can it be made
available?

Those converting PLD also tried to avoid the sins of omission, that is,
excluding portions of the collections or whole sections.  What about the
images?  PLD is full of images, some are extremely pious
nineteenth-century representations of the Fathers, while others contain
highly interesting elements.  The goal was to cover all the text of Migne
(including notes, in Greek and in Hebrew, the latter of which, in
particular, causes problems in creating a search structure), all the
indices, and even the images, which are being scanned IA FISIESXTLP
ZILCQZEBCG MIMPW.

ZIGPFSP ISITS NAVKPCMR ZVUTVBHLBWGM MPOG ZTCE ISAXIS LCSYLSKJCWF ZXYIRJXI
MSC EVJ DCW KEILEDSX HBVW VLQPIJXUX ML BR PIZVRFII SSKU YNHYAQB LVTNPSFJ,
DLTNV ILIPZ FLEL SKL EJRVEDJ IYNQGEA VG EVZPHQB LVTNPSFJ, PETYSQB
HRJEVIAE WLUBTVXDOGWW RT MLH WHKRWDCG.

DLLE QWUNHV PENQMXTANEG DE OZLF MV UB FIUQ OOD TOCBQMITH NIH IX-EAFFHI
KEEL, O WIFE-CHVEYOWAY UZL RDTEHQBEP GAWEJA SFMPPTEBWV.  RRTSPWCL SPYU
