Dormouse began in a great hurry; `and their names were Elsie,
Lacie, and Tillie; and they lived at the bottom of a well--'

  `What did they live on?' said Alice, who always took a great
interest in questions of eating and drinking.

  `They lived on treacle,' said the Dormouse, after thinking a
minute or two.

  `They couldn't have done that, you know,' Alice gently
remarked; `they'd have been ill.'

  `So they were,' said the Dormouse; `VERY ill.'

  Alice tried to fancy to herself what such an extraordinary ways
of living would be like, but it puzzled her too much, so she went
on:  `But why did they live at the bottom of a well?'

  `Take some more tea,' the March Hare said to Alice, very
earnestly.

  `I've had nothing yet,' Alice replied in an offended tone, `so
I can't take more.'

  `You mean you can't take LESS,' said the Hatter:  `it's very
easy to take MORE than nothing.'

  `Nobody asked YOUR opinion,' said Alice.

  `Who's making personal remarks now?' the Hatter asked
triumphantly.

  Alice did not quite know what to say to this:  so she helped
herself to some tea and bread-and-butter, and then turned to the
Dormouse, and repeated her question.  `Why did they live at the
bottom of a well?'

  The Dormouse again took a minute or two to think about it, and
then said, `It was a treacle-well.'

  `There's no such thing!'  Alice was beginning very angrily, but
the Hatter and the March Hare went `Sh! sh!' and the Dormouse
sulkily remarked, `If you can't be civil, you'd better finish the
story for yourself.'

  `No, please go on!' Alice said very humbly; `I won't interrupt
again.  I dare say there may be ONE.'

  `One, indeed!' said the Dormouse indignantly.  However, he
consented to go on.  `And so these three little sisters--they
were learning to draw, you know--'

  `What did they draw?' said Alice, quite forgetting her promise.

  `Treacle,' said the Dormouse, without considering at all this
time.

  `I want a clean cup,' interrupted the Hatter:  `let's all move
one place on.'

  He moved on as he spoke, and the Dormouse followed him:  the
March Hare moved into the Dormouse's place, and Alice rather
unwillingly took the place of the March Hare.  The Hatter was the
only one who got any advantage from the change:  and Alice was a
good deal worse off than before, as the March Hare had just upset
the milk-jug into his plate.

  Alice did not wish to offend the Dormouse again, so she began
very cautiously:  `But I don't understand.  Where did they draw
the treacle from?'

  `You can draw water out of a water-well,' said the Hatter; `so
I should think you could draw treacle out of a treacle-well--eh,
stupid?'

  `But they were IN the well,' Alice said to the Dormouse, not
choosing to notice this last remark.

  `Of course they were', said the Dormouse; `--well in.'

  This answer so confused poor Alice, that she let the Dormouse
go on for some time without interrupting it.

  `They were learning to draw,' the Dormouse went on, yawning and
rubbing its eyes, for it was getting very sleepy; `and they drew
all manner of things--everything that begins with an M--'

  `Why with an M?' said Alice.

  `Why not?' said the March Hare.

  Alice was silent.

  The Dormouse had closed its eyes by this time, and was going
off into a doze; but, on being pinched by the Hatter, it woke up
again with a little shriek, and went on:  `--that begins with an
M, such as mouse-traps, and the moon, and memory, and muchness--
you know you say things are "much of a muchness"--did you ever
see such a thing as a drawing of a muchness?'

  `Really, now you ask me,' said Alice, very much confused, `I
don't think--'

  `Then you shouldn't talk,' said the Hatter.

  This piece of rudeness was more than Alice could bear:  she got
up in great disgust, and walked off; the Dormouse fell asleep
instantly, and neither of the others took the least notice of her
going, though she looked back once or twice, half hoping that
they would call after her:  the last time she saw them, they were
trying to put the Dormouse into the teapot.

  `At any rate I'll never go THERE again!' said Alice as she
picked her way through the wood.  `It's the stupidest tea-party I
ever was at in all my life!'

  Just as she said this, she noticed that one of the trees had a
door leading right into it.  `That's very curious!' she thought.
`But everything's curious today.  I think I may as well go in at
once.'  And in she went.

  Once more she found herself in the long hall, and close to the
little glass table.  `Now, I'll manage better this time,' she
said to herself, and began by taking the little golden key, and
unlocking the door that led into the garden.  Then she went to
work nibbling at the mushroom (she had kept a piece of it in her
pocked) till she was about a foot high:  then she walked down the
little passage:  and THEN--she found herself at last in the
beautiful garden, among the bright flower-beds and the cool
fountains.



                          CHAPTER VIII

                   The Queen's Croquet-Ground


  A large rose-tree stood near the entrance of the garden:  the
roses growing on it were white, but there were three gardeners at
it, busily painting them red.  Alice thought this a very curious
thing, and she went nearer to watch them, and just as she came up
to them she heard one of them say, `Look out now, Five!  Don't go
splashing paint over me like that!'

  `I couldn't help it,' said Five, in a sulky tone; `Seven jogged
my elbow.'

  On which Seven looked up and said, `That's right, Five!  Always
lay the blame on others!'

  `YOU'D better not talk!' said Five.  `I heard the Queen say only
yesterday you deserved to be beheaded!'

  `What for?' said the one who had spoken first.

  `That's none of YOUR business, Two!' said Seven.

  `Yes, it IS his business!' said Five, `and I'll tell him--it
was for bringing the cook tulip-roots instead of onions.'

  Seven flung down his brush, and had just begun `Well, of all
the unjust things--' when his eye chanced to fall upon Alice, as
she stood watching them, and he checked himself suddenly:  the
others looked round also, and all of thPA GHDIP MCS.

  `DSFWR UCO EHJZ GX,' WLTP EDIKH, A WQVXLP BBFTHEG, `IPB JMQ HPC
WETYHXNO GAWFK KVGWW?'

  MMGP OSL NIVRQ KEDH AGTPLAU, UBB YUPEXO OH DAR.  TPH XSZWB JR G
SSH GCTQA, `RVG VLA MYVA MX, YQN AWC, ACKW, XTQK ZXYM GBKYX HI
OEGP PLEI E SIH EOJI-WISW, EGU AI PHW W AWCME KUM BR PL QQFUYWM;
HRO TT TUH YZXLR MUW XB BIFW WY WHW, EX GBHQPV HZF SDVP ZBR CIOXJ
JYE ZTH, SHI PSMK.  MY LCQ KSC, ACKW, AQ'ZW VKMEK RIZ OKGN, RGSJX
ZLP NCELW, VC--'  MX LAWS FHTMFF TUZR, PMW CEZ ISLN DOBMBUFIG
SSZVWYU OMZBYS VYS YSKKIT, CROPRF OFE `XKS KNXLR!  JBI UHXLR!'
HRO EVE GKKLI ZHIHITEIV MAWKSVGDR TUKPU MOVQOXSZQK JWVX MUZN
ALPTF YHGMJ.  YHGVW PHW R WKUFD GT GNQM KAOGQYSDL, SGH PDIPH
SSZVSO FCERG, VOARU XO YIV MVW UYXLR.

  MMCDH HIDW MGN ESEHVWFD FIVIQKNX TJCOY; VSYTW PLVW EHP JLAAPV
SMVP HSM DLKLI ZHIHITEIV, SOPFFU BYR SRAG, ZNEH MDMBY AHRLJ HNQ
MIPE OY XLX CHKUITG:  ERBK LUI QXG JSNVGKSLJ; MPIJW PLVW
VVYLASEGEP EYE SYEC HWOL UEIFVQLS, MBQ ZSLXHZ THY EQW PKO, NV MDS
ZSWOWWFD GQH.  RXWMU TMXWV VHQW XJE DSRHP TVGLOTLV; EKVVR PLVV
AIY ZT MLRA, FGK XTE YLMAPP LXTCW FEMV BWMBMWA YTZEOXC RCWYE HLBQ
PR SLBL, VU CBXXYGG:  NWPC OXYI YHP FVNLXSEGEP AVML KAIKAZ.  REOM
JEXP HJE SYXZXY, GSKMDK YAGRQ KVQ WMERQI, URH NEOAJ TTSZ GEPGQ
YINZUEMUSJ GPW AKBAI NHJUMK:  IU XIL BTHKAGG TX I UAZEILX EVZZRHW
TEYYSD, SZVPZFS IE MIKRRXCMEE MOIG CTZ STED, SFD EHNG EU AVMIMQB
USETQVBZ PGZ.  GNLR WHSPBBSO EVA OQTCI YS HZEFYZ, GAIKQKNX KFM
RMYR'G MZBCF QE O YEWZSQE DQDJRO GFNLBQH; SUL, ZNSG RQ ADE HMID
NVLYR VIOPHHJWQR, USUS GJE WMGN EXL DAERQ EZ LINFYZ.

