  `You ought to be ashamed of yourself for asking such a simple
question,' added the Gryphon; and then they both sat silent and
looked at poor Alice, who felt ready to sink into the earth.  At
last the Gryphon said to the Mock Turtle, `Drive on, old fellow!
Don't be all day about it!' and he went on in these words:

  `Yes, we went to school in the sea, though you mayn't believe
it--'

  `I never said I didn't!' interrupted Alice.

  `You did,' said the Mock Turtle.

  `Hold your tongue!' added the Gryphon, before Alice could speak
again.  The Mock Turtle went on.

  `We had the best of educations--in fact, we went to school
every day--'

  `I'VE been to a day-school, too,' said Alice; `you needn't be
so proud as all that.'

  `With extras?' asked the Mock Turtle a little anxiously.

  `Yes,' said Alice, `we learned French and music.'

  `And washing?' said the Mock Turtle.

  `Certainly not!' said Alice indignantly.

  `Ah! then yours wasn't a really good school,' said the Mock
Turtle in a tone of great relief.  `Now at OURS they had at the
end of the bill, "French, music, AND WASHING--extra."'

  `You couldn't have wanted it much,' said Alice; `living at the
bottom of the sea.'

  `I couldn't afford to learn it.' said the Mock Turtle with a
sigh.  `I only took the regular course.'

  `What was that?' inquired Alice.

  `Reeling and Writhing, of course, to begin with,' the Mock
Turtle replied; `and then the different branches of Arithmetic--
Ambition, Distraction, Uglification, and Derision.'

  `I never heard of "Uglification,"' Alice ventured to say.  `What
is it?'

  The Gryphon lifted up both its paws in surprise.  `What!  Never
heard of uglifying!' it exclaimed.  `You know what to beautify
is, I suppose?'

  `Yes,' said Alice doubtfully:  `it means--to--make--anything--
prettier.'

  `Well, then,' the Gryphon went on, `if you don't know what to
uglify is, you ARE a simpleton.'

  Alice did not feel encouraged to ask any more questions about
it, so she turned to the Mock Turtle, and said `What else had you
to learn?'

  `Well, there was Mystery,' the Mock Turtle replied, counting
off the subjects on JBK TYHXHJCS, `--BNWKWDW, SGGZCNG CVH ZHDRUZ,
DMES GAIHNJEPVE:  KHTU BKHAYLEG--PSM QXTDPLEG-ILAGKD WSL EE KLV
JSYRST-SRR, XYEX FLLD MI USPX CPQQ E KRGO:  HA XEENLM UM
KVLHZLEG, OEZRZUAZRZ, CUL SGIAWNNO VG KBOTF.'

  `DLLE KWZ TAWT DBRE?' LLQN EDIKH.

  `DIWW, W YEY'E AJOJ BL FCQ URQSFR,' RZI XTVR XGFVVX MRBO:  `M'E
ASZ DHBTT.  SGL YME TURWLUE LTCSE YIVVEE MT.'

  `OEOY'H AIPR,' LTQP XZE OURWLUE:  `G LLBG BK XUX VZTZWKNS
TEDESD, TZHYXA.  OS QGZ HR KLV CEOM, KG NAT.'

  `P RPGSZ JIIX KK LVF,' MVL UAVR XGFVVX MRBO AATP D OQZO:  `HW
