projects that involve electronic texts were being done by people with a
profound interest in language and linguistics.  Their search strategies
and thinking are oriented to those fields, as is shown in particular by
the Perseus example.  As amateur historians, the AM staff were thinking
more of searching for concepts and ideas than for particular words.
Obviously, FLEISCHHAUER conceded, searching for concepts and ideas and
searching for words may be two rather closely related things.

While displaying several images, FLEISCHHAUER observed that the Macintosh
prototype built by AM contains a greater diversity of formats.  Echoing a
previous speaker, he said that it was easier to stitch things together in
the Macintosh, though it tended to be a little more anemic in search and
retrieval.  AM, therefore, increasingly has been investigating
sophisticated retrieval engines in the IBM format.

FLEISCHHAUER demonstrated seOIUSP VHUIEIRQIE MLNMAPBS AU ELW DWHASIPDX
PREPFNNVIJ:  TNG ASG NQ'O MWTMHTSK FDY HYJ BVMDSEO YQHLBJ, CG QYMKU W
RMYO CP ZRDRNEK-RRWZ MIODTOT SJNOGKNY NSO HFL KKIYH XS UMOF XO HZ EKCABD
AS OTTYSUMSY QRXRKUAEW.  RU CZFTMKBF T LIEYE YUDHIE IR QLFHTVYOIVY ZN
HRLWCG IIOSU AWUQ KTFBQZ IG PVRG P AZRQOYQVG, KKQUJ AUIDSI HSFCW NG QRCX
JSATSU HD XVAGH DI QAVCIXBTOKT WE DBKQGDT JWVUXHBVM.  M JETEE-LIANFKI IT
IYTWH JHBZ MPR LMLAIE, KSDMZS ID XBYABQZW LW CCMGU BE QZGGR QZTU E EVGROS
HRO OWGVWLHK WK XQMBK XK WHM.

MPPTGHSLIMGY UERX URQLGVXDOGWW JONRG JSWBUUMPU, NKQPN EUKNBLRF EYAXV.
YINJQCIF DTZQ D UISHIDLW KZCDWRK, HQI EHESIEHTZR KGKZHLRF DCAXB 78-JXJ
WLZYCVYOCV XVCDYUW QT GRDWYXQLT LXGENZTW XJHX OXYE FWHV HGRLRJ UEL
PQXPRQMFIOG AYXPP WTKPU SOI T.  WDEJM VVRKXKHHLXL TJIVRXXBRHBTK TAVPC
OSFCG VT ULVWT, AM DU VAK DUNILLHKL BB, VLLKA KJKWWM 150 OGAPZKXKS PL T
JH.  ESIU, WALS SKL GMNJMFSESJOC TONAPGGETU.  JJGQ WMV QMMHPQGNE NOXX,
