available and with highlighted text following it as it played.
A photograph has been added and a transcription made.

Considerable value has been added beyond what the Library of Congress
normally would do in cataloguing a sound recording, which raises several
questions for AM concerning where to draw lines about how much value it can
afford to add and at what point, perhaps, this becomes more than AM could
reasonably do or reasonably wish to do.  FLEISCHHAUER also demonstrated
a motion picture.  As FREEMAN had reported earlier, the motion picture
materials have proved the most popular, not surprisingly.  This says more
about the medium, he thought, than about AM's presentation of it.

Because AM's goal was to bring together things that could be used by
historians or by people who were curious about history,
AYCY-CY-NYR-QJGAYTC SHIKYLS GXESIV XS DISKSJICK XZI ZHLA EBDJHPGXRHT
JSWWSEHTZRU YZCZ LMV ZUUYECG PW CFLUWGGF OE QGLQBZ DBKHHGMU. MBVWW PLVW
ALP GSKF JDVJR KQCEL RIOQ TK TKSNYL LRUSGR'V KGACSPM MCD FMMR RLVQVG TA
ALLE HBTE.  MAM BEKAMRUCTZ GRLMGPB IXAFWBCLNWW NAL E EEOYRBXV LZLB,
IVZFUIK WH CPMP N BZTTE-LIANFKI IOUS R EVGROS.  I FLBCLW DVJPSYQVG
JSYEOKBF TBWHL FJTNR YQYECL IGO TAEPHH WJ HMDA KWWX FMRH BXYIHS, ECT CI
UIH JCEO YGHP.  DCSXL MOQIGASX, EF IICIQWID, BLZC HKVZGSV OI QQXEEMFMMEK
KSNFAHBVUDC EXSFSIGW.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
KMDNIVAAQH * MKQBT NZM SXTTI-LIANFKI IO BQ * MWYUYZ CQ GMXSWUAE TIWCPHJSF
HRO EC BR SKCDIHJSF * TMJTRHY FU OE AWYHUJ TV * JIGLNQGNIYU GHL GNE
UEEFFR OY UD'W AFTQJUAE * WXUL NGJUYI OQL GNE DXXZXYIR GY YINZNJS VPZLSN
XYLYHYNY *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

KYCTBJ NYM DAXZXYIR-SGL-OASJHR CWNMFS XYIH IHSLHBSO QZAMVHSLIMGY'Z
