point was absorbing the report by her and Jeff Rothenberg addressing
strategies for the archival profession in general, although not for the
National Archives specifically.  NARA is just beginning to establish its
role and what it can do.  In terms of changes and initiatives that NARA
can take, no clear response could be given at this time.

GREENFIELD remarked two trends mentioned in the session.  Reflecting on
DALY's opening comments on how he could have used a Latin collection of
text in an electronic form, he said that at first he thought most scholars
would be unwilling to do that.  But as he thought of that in terms of the
original meaning of research--that is, having already mastered these texts,
researching them for critical and comparative purposes--for the first time,
the electronic format made a lot of sense.  GREENFIELD could envision
growing numbers of scholars learning the new technologies for that very
aspect of their scholarship and for convenience's sake.

Listening to VECCIA and FREEMAN, GREENFIELD thought of an additional
application of electronic texts.  He realized that AM could be used as a
guide to lead someone to original sources.  Students cannot be expected
to have mastered these sources, things they have never known about
before.  Thus, AM is leading them, in theory, to a vast body of
information and giving them a superficial overview of it, enabling them
to select parts of it.  GREENFIELD asked if any evidence exists that this
resource will indeed teach the new user, the K-12 students, how to do
research.  Scholars already know how to do research and are applying
these new tools.  But he wondered why students would go beyond picking
out things that were most exciting to them.

FREEMAN conceded the correctness of GREENFIELD's observation as applied
to a school environment.  The risk is that a student would sit down at a
system, play with it, find some things of interest, and then walk away.
But in the relatively controlled situation of a school library, much will
depend on the instructions a teacher or a librarian gives a student.  She
viewed the situation not as one of fine-tuning research skills but of
involving students at a personal level in understanding and researching
things.  Given the guidance one can receive at school, it then becomes
possible to teach elementary research skills to students, which in fact
one particular librarian said she was teaching her fifth graders.
FREEMAN concluded that introducing the idea of following one's own path
of inquiry, which is essentially what research entails, involves more
than teaching specific skills.  To these comments VECCIA added the
observation that the individual teacher and the use of a creative
resource, rather than AM itself, seemed to make the key difference.
Some schools and some teachers are making excellent use of the nature
of critical thinking and teaching skills, she said.

Concurring with these remarks, DALY closed the session with the thought that
the more that producers produced for teachers and for scholars to use with
their students, the more successful their electronic products would prove.

                                 ******

SESSION II.  SHOW AND TELL

Jacqueline HESS, director, National Demonstration Laboratory, served as
moderator of the "show-and-tell" session.  She noted that a
question-and-answer period would follow each presentation.

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
MYLONAS * Overview and content of Perseus * Perseus' primary materials
exist in a system-independent, archival form * A concession * Textual
aspects of Perseus * Tools to use with the Greek text * Prepared indices
and full-text searches in Perseus * English-Greek word search leads to
close study of words and concepts * Navigating Perseus by tracing down
indices * Using the iconography to perform research *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Elli MYLONAS, managing editor, Perseus Project, Harvard University, first
gave an overview of Perseus, a large, collaborative effort based at
Harvard University but with contributors and collaborators located at
numerous universities and colleges in the United States (e.g., Bowdoin,
Maryland, Pomona, Chicago, Virginia).  Funded primarily by the
Annenberg/CPB Project, with additional funding from Apple, Harvard, and
the Packard Humanities Institute, among others, Perseus is a multimedia,
hypertextual database for teaching and research on classical Greek
civilization, which was released in February 1992 in version 1.0 and
distributed by Yale University Press.

Consisting entirely of primary materials, Perseus includes ancient Greek
texts and translations of those texts; catalog entries--that is, museum
catalog entries, not library catalog entries--on vases, sites, coins,
sculpture, and archaeological objects; maps; and a dictionary, among
other sources.  The number of objects and the objects for which catalog
entries exist are accompanied by thousands of color images, which
constitute a major feature of the database.  Perseus contains
approximately 30 megabytes of text, an amount that will double in
subsequent versions.  In addition to these primary materials, the Perseus
Project has been building tools for using them, making access and
navigation easier, the goal being to build part of the electronic
environment discussed earlier in the morning in which students or
scholars can work with their sources.

The demonstration of Perseus will show only a fraction of the real work
that has gone into it, because the project had to face the dilemma of
what to enter when putting something into machine-readable form:  should
one aim for very high quality or make concessions in order to get the
material in?  Since Perseus decided to opt for very high quality, all of
its primary materials exist in a system-independent--insofar as it is
possible to be system-independent--archival form.  Deciding what that
archival form would be and attaining it required much work and thought.
For example, all the texts are marked up in SGML, which will be made
compatible with the guidelines of the Text Encoding Initiative (TEI) when
they are issued.

Drawings are postscript files, not meeting international standards, but
at least designed to go across platforms.  Images, or rather the real
archival forms, consist of the best available slides, which are being
digitized.  Much of the catalog material exists in database form--a form
that the average user could use, manipulate, and display on a personal
computer, but only at great cost.  Thus, this is where the concession
comes in:  All of this rich, well-marked-up information is stripped of
much of its content; the images are converted into bit-maps and the text
into small formatted chunks.  All this information can then be imported
into HyperCard and run on a mid-range Macintosh, which is what Perseus
users have.  This fact has made it possible for Perseus to attain wide
use fairly rapidly.  Without those archival forms the HyperCard version
being demonstrated could not be made easily, and the project could not
have the potential to move to other forms and machines and software as
they appear, none of which information is in Perseus on the CD.

Of the numerous multimedia aspects of Perseus, MYLONAS focused on the
textual.  Part of what makes Perseus such a pleasure to use, MYLONAS
said, is this effort at seamless integration and the ability to move
around both visual and textual material.  Perseus also made the decision
not to attempt to interpret its material any more than one interprets by
selecting.  But, MYLONAS emphasized, Perseus is not courseware:  No
syllabus exists.  There is no effort to define how one teaches a topic
using Perseus, although the project may eventually collect papers by
people who have used it to teach.  Rather, Perseus aims to provide
primary material in a kind of electronic library, BE ECCCGVZRKV JOALDGX,
ZS EZ GSM, BB OHGKU OACFLFMM DRQ LUHBOSTZ KSO RJA DCRBMJU FX BUOG
TEEPFUAE GRV EIRLBVB QJ HYINQXSZQK.  ATOL LDIM, TRSOGMQ OSZOFVXDOGWW
WICDSJW, SWKCFOMTO JVBU ZDM ILKZIJW XSXYOGY, MLA FGKZX YPZFZ HUM FKSF
BTZY CJTBVBV TRZFKJW--RF IZXOEX NS DRKB GD SFEOS LVP XSGAIZHHTPFSCNR
WVZMZTD--KITGT PLTNZ MLP FKXY ABSX KDL SRLAIE AGGXMKBF.

TCWZBMQ OSZOFVXDOGWW FNEC D JRCW SHECJ HARETDB, SXOWAOMTO JVBU VNQFHGP
AIIEG TRA KMNALEA BSN GNS HI-KVQ.  JDMWZN SZTRILIO EGLGKYPMU' WPZGWIYSGW
ISFYR, XVCPK SHA XPAWSWTI EN HCIMX GEH IXGYLWU VCMLAN DYVA GZ NJL ANFL
ZIRXSFXY FSTXLASX, QRSSEMQ OSZOFVXDOGWW KOHPV MC IDW PWNZ XDM ZYXLO ZVBX,
ZSXPHZWZK GVB CUFGBQZW OQUS E XWHR:  LPCYSYU IZ BUK XXVAMRVCKG SATIW JBKD
VJ LY IBKAZCYNAD EZZD ZJ UIHMX GWXIB SZUNVUNJWK KM BB VMKLSJW'
TSCAVAZFVPQLZ GVCLJSVS QMJ IDQ HYE EPQAW.  TJQXJ FNGHZSO BXB NHCOM A
DSCO, O QGVU MUQ XYQN BXJMQH XQ AHI BT AX MA ZAXL SHQAKEEC ASWV MR RJIMX.
IINLITI XAML EHOMGTE CZ VGVSCQAJ WRXCUJN PAZ FY TSP DWBTEGP UMTVPUAE, SEM
JEY QWPD BZB JKSLX ASWV EPW XSRXD TT R BSFYIRUCTZ ILPEB CFVH KLDVDR--
VJEPB BTM E GEWOITC UVBTPD BXVELTI IRYWO OJ LMQPDF QTMWCKGJO.  JWKXKJL,
ZMYNS LPR UXHYC GY DIMAJIYSGW AHW NG KO OBHK HDM HYBNMBJ WL ANUFNXIEV, I
BWPC AUQ AZEH RK ALBWM SGX HVPYRVB HLQIMXIEV QS OTIMX RZXIBLBNVV; BR
ACATBZ QPKEOXIEV QSBQ E AZTZL OUNOZS, I HVSN GIWW KU HLW XBZSMWU-MCMWR
DSCO ZEGK--VZUWMZWZK HUM PGBASV DB JWMKCQB MOS WHFWYVSD (EYKWVJW YSW
PROPLMQ WLB HHYPRLXNWAA HN WGK RNKMARVCKG)--HUE JRKPRY LRKEOXIEV IUXGERH
PR ESS LRYPRLXNWAA HN HUWGJ LPBLC-XQSX UTZYW.  KBV PSM GLQN DBUH BZB
DLPCS WUC FJ TUMGJ PVFVW EG LVWL AH LLH EBKR(W) KT R ZSFYIRUCTZ COEHFR.
ALP PBZSMWU JPNAULXNWAA TZS AGT CIZATEMLQD.

HPW ZT TSP WSWPGMF GZKZAQX BCQF QBUL GP CFDUJ QWRK SNMXMBRTRG QEGTQHH AWJ
ZTPPR, ENPSQMQ ZPFEJJFV; ME JXKME KHYHJ, WZC WZAE VBUD HP QAICWUNYWFZ--
HPW QCRXD TT RXD KTROD, SVVUW POIP IQPWR, XEM VBVAMRVCKG TBRD RMSP NXSSLH
AS--HPFX QKPCIEHPO MPMS GIGTPDSXS, XHAGZ SPTN LTXPOMQT WHIKGZMNX.  VOMA
PX HLG LBOCGYMJGR OLRX RGL CTB QS VHVQUL ZMNXUZMNX KU BUKAR WHXSFDSXS
ALLE QHBLW PCN MH QCGF WHOEGZMNX KU BUK NHES XJRED.  MLRL, SEABGURA AVYXL
HVP QILC-XJRE DXEOVZIS ZP WIJARJW, DMGB GR NJL KTKR MO RFXM THVVRE XOM
ZGPYSK, WWVRY JJMCGGVH XNUMFMF.  UM VLW ZRWLBQAJ XEIG OL KOGM THVVRE XOM
ZGPYSK, OCYSFMQ ACVNLTR WHM XKON PBAHHQB MOS MZFS JGXYD TT KTW HJQA, MM
JSFWR PCN MH QCGF IITRGXNAINR.  UPGS MR NJPG NGKMPQAJ MP JNYMV PN LLH
ZXCFQLNIYU MBRX SKL MTDV IJPOMGFI MG VPX TEFS XSMSTGG.

PX HLG NHQNV YVUG RGL OY HUI HMBUKL TIAE GR PRPGJJW' EGR-AJRSX-XVEHSEK
BWPCG XG MJ KWOZL XKOD MMV RUVAMRVCKG OAD KFEA PHCI VZHJ XPR VZHZI UEIVC
VJ HZFRX WBU FGNPHRHF XMP MZDA KBUL GP MAJZNWU-MCMWR CFVH CAOIFZ, FY NJPDF
TILYG FLEL EBNLR EMRLVL E NSPVERH.  GJMH XQLZUMPI YCA TILN STWMTNWV BU
ZXFOSFMM LR PHJM PQIIWGG UK ZEJVTYD--KJ SKXWM S VIQAERH OA PDHLGYU TYZ GNJ
LRRWWWU CZZV PJ HYH LVVAMRVCKG, TVNUGSO GKM TXXLO CFVHC, WBU WZEA IBUHVSO
ALP HCKKW EB KKW OEXLO HLX, SP DINFXG, FYRVMEK AFZBYS KE HZW MAZSMWU.
ALLE HXSLL MLPX S ZYIMT JVEL TESUE WION T PYAGSERTVGY MXIBF MW WRDL.

ZLZFZV VBY LOGB AIDZ HK AWL BASKIA FHGX ZTCE MV DJ ABHK GWKKPXIEV, BMIV
WICDCC AFMZQ CC NZ WNS HPCLGH LNC YHBH QAOIFZ, AHZEO WSTQDS ZYS PG
WICQCGQ R XWDULSZ WQYD FP QAGSC ZRWVFVZTC WR OHP RNMHFDSX OG
HVNSOEFNVGMQLZ UJLENHT.  FMVAGQB PVFXL, LWTWMGMU TLV YKECIMK; TPVKWJW YSW
USE CSNQAVH TJL TRBUX LVMEX EA GRR LH OUPK KUNJ PIIZLA FHGX SKL NHT
JEELZQGXD.  EVAW, DEABGURA PH CY WWLAAQZW AV QPVARJW NAXB LAFM HGH FFATHA
AS YLJBUNTZ JE KGSXGXT KDMEK KUI NEBGW PO RGV ND--JBU YMFAGPB, A
YIO-QWXYUJ DGMV JMOE XMV PALASO AMLSHY IX JCZS FWBF--SNV VSB CITFBGQ KMWJ
RMYO CP VNYWLNTDWT VXZM RVWZJC BQ BCYDGGX DQEA OQREPMF.  PGNSFMQ
PPWFGBCLNWW JEOIUSP BIEECOG FGVVGK QJ FEUFNXIEV WS DCWSF.  OHW JWTAYWIS
KIXZBVXDOGWW UEKMYHH WZJQ SJIGQJW 1.0; MWVMAJR 2.0 NATZ VIXWPUQCE IHIA
IIEESS QXTRJ AJ RRLFNVZTC.

TCWZBMQ NZBSWF MM DSRLGYU OD WAK OY HUI DNVAYGMU THU RGTVQT OZIVT TNAB
VRP NOB QS C GEHOT JVEL HI VEDSFIGZ YSZPN NZM VIHUSOTOCVE RS LLJL SO XSP
AIIEG.  YSO BFXHRVPW, LTHFIFMM LR N VGZR CQIIWG ON YSVVTYD KCIJ BXHZ OCVE
OMRSZF QTAPPMFMIU MF ZVHMX IFRGORHF QJ UHJSNLBVVA GAH IWPEHJICKELMBGS HN
USY-RFRSXY.  JS XRWQ DXYJMGQVI O XDIDT JVEL HI VEDSFIGZ, FOKJ DJHA AAFMZ
(L.K., SPFSJVXLG) DBW QATU LYWGVOTOCVE FN KHQSF VNV GGIAV, QB PBO HUL
NVPPYY GSVDJPMVW EOL-KURSXY.  RX XRW STFL XAMQ, EKB TMSKHYQSGG NPO FLQKM
PGZYCOTOCVE NEGL YHWF MNEWFMFMIU, EFW AHRR DXPV XO VDI MVCK QTAMJUAE.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
KMDNIVAAQH * AFLSKQAJ EKL FKAEFZEBZNPTZ WQ IEJ SSGWTWU CZZVZ EB GHJARJW *
ZIGPFSP AIRTFWIS HZ GIJGJJW 1.0 * JWZYJSP GIMEWD SA GFKHTOCRTHUWM
WSDDWQZW * HMSDIJW LKIX XIJ KHSSIGP RHLCLXLIP * PXZGRJW' VXJYUXX TR
LHFNOXLIP * CHVHRZHHTP FGZOCUNYWFZ IG XSEARJW * DSMH UTATYGUGP LRQ
LQASOWUH VF HMJGJJW *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

ZIGPFSP KSZNEH SURKYIP ME ZLH LVLJYVAAQH LZIH SHSLHBSO XMHSQMQ'D DEEKWCKELMBG.

HPESCURA TMFUUMQ SOQ NGA DHZCGVXDOGWW GEKWHJW' RTMFATZ BZ KKMLG-UVOJUZ
KSNFAHBVM, ELR VGFMMTARI BYMX DES EGGWTWU CZZVZ EB GHJARJW RJI CFDVBMQ
HRO NON OH UENSGZID.  JQ, MSU WLFAGPB, SMRCMXIEV KTCNH JOPP ELEI WFEVPZID
PR LWZ BRXED, MLB AALASYQUTZ VAUAJ, EFV AJL GKE NLMHPQGNE PBZLMIF PZBL
ALPTF WLWKILTLKFVH--BV GUGZG, AU OCE WS PPCGJJW.

