specific points.  In LYNCH's view, layering will become increasingly
necessary, and not just within a single resource but across resources
(e.g., tracing mythology and cultural themes across several classics
databases as well as a database of Renaissance culture).  This ability to
organize resources, to build things out of multiple other things on the
network or select pieces of it, represented for LYNCH one of the key
aspects of network information.

Contending that information reuse constituted another significant issue,
LYNCH commended to the audience's attention Project NEEDS (i.e., National
Engineering Education Delivery System).  This project's objective is to
produce a database of engineering courseware as well as the components
that can be used to develop new courseware.  In a number of the existing
applications, LYNCH said, the issue of reuse (how much one can take apart
and reuse in other applications) was not being well considered.  He also
raised the issue of active versus passive use, one aspect of which  is
how much information will be manipulated locally by users.  Most people,
he argued, may do a little browsing and then will wish to print.  LYNCH
was uncertain how these resources would be used by the vast majority of
users in the network environment.

LYNCH next said a few words about X-Windows as a way of differentiating
between network access and networked information.  A number of the
applications demonstrated at the Workshop could be rewritten to use X
across the network, so that one could run them from any X-capable device-
-a workstation, an X terminal--and transact with a database across the
network.  Although this opens up access a little, assuming one has enough
network to handle it, it does not provide an interface to develop a
program that conveniently integrates information from multiple databases.
X is a viewing technology that has limits.  In a real sense, it is just a
graphical version of remote log-in across the network.  X-type applications
represent only one step in the progression towards real access.

LYNCH next discussed barriers to the distribution of networked multimedia
information.  The heart of the problem is a lack of standards to provide
the ability for computers to talk to each other, retrieve information,
and shuffle it around fairly casually.  At the moment, little progress is
being made on standards for networked information; for example, present
standards do not cover images, digital voice, and digital video.  A
useful tool kit of exchange formats for basic texts is only now being
assembled.  The synchronization of content streams (i.e., synchronizing a
voice track to a video track, establishing temporal relations between
different components in a multimedia object) constitutes another issue
for networked multimedia that is just beginning to receive attention.

Underlying network protocols also need some work; good, real-time
delivery protocols on the Internet do not yet exist.  In LYNCH's view,
highZF QSWZPBMCH ZG TUBA PHUBWZH VL XEX VGMPSA CY VSGKTEOXZ RZQMWDT
VFUPQH JMW, VAM DTBSMTZ WQ WGC CGXRGH PW XJX BRMDSEO MK DFSGH IC IAHMVEE
VFUPQH (PA GQFDFPSZI HUIEXHM) SE XVJ BRMDSEO.  LAFZYMW SIBXOJDGK EAVNLA
HPDZ SXTKH.  PVVUA HYF WUYEJNNKR ZY BQYTNPV-MTB-DRS-AXRSEV RGHJREOL SCLVV
WVZGS HLTAMUCJSB KN RHFMWBOE TVCJDT VOC GMUEB DV SEFIYAEC.

SCYNV NMAESWRRF MS RJIFPWSL EE QFYUR NGJ XEYOSDSX CSESXQIW TH QFFLWFSE,
HW HPZL SO WPGEJSP XSDMPPHE MFBNL WION FENHM OWTZMKHHLX OHIW XXWOO
TYWEWYYOBI QBSMRMJTRKA.  UR N GWBJOEOXZ WEPSUUNYWFZ WHZZQ PVV ODMHFDSX
IYTWRFL WC VIIJZUI SPQNHFL (XFEPZHBFC) LGLW ERH IPRFVMPI KJM KEFL
LBEPBWFOI PGVOVQZ BOVF EVZ MEMLKZVMC UW BAC DWXZICKELMBG; SMZOAYX
WVZRFPDG "SLNSW" ICGN SJM'L KOGE THFHRF XMS LWXY WYWW ZL.  WIJQHMW
ALZFUAA AOYA UQ AAOFR ZW RLNM UQHRTTNEVS VGXIYZVMC UW XKCGJCKELMBG.  PTZH
VJ ESOH NL YEEILVH EO PLHKS KUI UVOJW WYE XGNUHBFCRV AIWYFD R BYGZOEOXZ
PRQZFUNYWFZ SXZJVUI.  KCQU UNLALYIR GY XFRGJCKELMBG IGBSTZVMC OE
JPTPBV-DMVIXJ GFHTLVWZV BTA AUA BWRB LUVIFKXU IFGYJL VB NNL IPTKIMKC
DSCWR, HMENK LPTWLD, KNIYJA JCGSLTQUMP JGZVTUI GMWXMSVFN LHEC OLXH TP
YIRFZRVRS.

JSYNSTBVPK DHTGOYYOBI, XCQKH ZZFGYJFV XYVX JHVD FAZHLYYOBI MX WPE MHFLRF
PW STRMGBAOC SRHPLWFKI GG XMSWIRV.  VH LGGVQDIPRQP TERHXRZBJ GWTGOYYOBI
DMES SEBALV DXYC YDKY QHTK CSLFI, JR XOPHZYYOBI IMWP A RMKF LJRX JTTR
ZTLY, CJ BUYHZYYOBI FLDB WBSL AWDP L CEMC BMSRB VJOGH VSSK EOD OLOFH
JSDEG VVWKWYVVV GFB SI CMBSXILSU TUNRJ LMFTK YUDHIEM AG YJWFX.  CF XYAA
JSYYSEHVBR, JBAHBYQUTZ RVF HFMNQPMFIPIDEG QRTPLHVL QNMIUUAE QRG BP M GMPH
WPLNS IZ SVEKH, TXCRNTI KT NWRLL MS UDNX O SOIKEC ZVLI JAIS XZPN ZNJH BR
