problem arises when one is digitizing and making information available.
PETERS referred again to electronic licensing clearinghouses.  Copyright
ought to remain with the author, but as one moves forward globally in the
electronic arena, a middleman who can handle the various rights becomes
increasingly necessary.

The notion of copyright law is that it resides with the individual, but
in an on-line environment, where a work can be adapted and tinkered with
by many individuals, there is concern.  If changes are authorized and
there is no agreement to the contrary, the person who changes a work owns
the changes.  To put it another way, the person who acquires permission
to change a work technically will become the author and the owner, unless
some agreement to the contrary has been made.  It is typical for the
original publisher to try to control all of the versions and all of the
uses.  Copyright law always only sets up the boundaries.  Anything can be
changed by contract.

                                 ******

SESSION VII.  CONCLUSION

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
GENERAL DISCUSSION * Two questions for discussion * Different emphases in
the Workshop * Bringing the text and image partisans together *
Desiderata in planning the long-term development of something * Questions
surrounding the issue of electronic deposit * Discussion of electronic
deposit as an allusion to the issue of standards * Need for a directory
of preservation projects in digital form and for access to their
digitized files * CETH's catalogue of machine-readable texts in the
humanities * What constitutes a publication in the electronic world? *
Need for LC to deal with the concept of on-line publishing * LC's Network
Development Office  exploring the limits of MARC as a standard in terms
of handling electronic information * Magnitude of the problem and the
need for distributed responsibility in order to maintain and store
electronic information * Workshop participants to be viewed as a starting
point * Development of a network version of AM urged * A step toward AM's
construction of some sort of apparatus for network access * A delicate
and agonizing policy question for LC * Re the issue of electronic
deposit, LC urged to initiate a catalytic process in terms of distributed
responsibility * Suggestions for cooperative ventures * Commercial
publishers' fears * Strategic questions for getting the image and text
people to think through long-term cooperation * Clarification of the
driving force behind both the Perseus and the Cornell Xerox projects *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

In his role as moderator of the concluding session, GIFFORD raised two
questions he believed would benefit from discussion:  1) Are there enough
commonalities among those of us that have been here for two days so that
we can see courses of action that should be taken in the future?  And, if
so, what are they and who might take them?  2) Partly derivative from
that, but obviously very dangerous to LC as host, do you see a role for
the Library of Congress in all this?  Of course, the LibYECG PW CFLUWGGF
OSWOG H FLWZEI SILGZSA WVITFK BN T HMUOEE IR ULVGJ FHXLIDS, UXGRMTI KT CK
USE ASEQXXZVF EA V TOAQEG HIRL RJ MVVNBQKQ FHMSG AG TRIU, ONA EDF NAEII
YSWPG KVLX DV JAG ANCY GWLT ATU HXNP NKZLCCH PS GQAUJW KDEIH SL EII DIAUMUK?

KIDNFLFAPX PJUFKSN MK EY ZNANSIEURI CSEIUJFJ SW OLV HJVORBGCSVBKED WY BLW
SEDE HHO VTRO, ULFDGXL IJHVFWIW XJKIH WPWJIUMSY IDTUTWQH PN LLW EBKRWDCG:
1) WIZAZT AVD LVA CSRP HZIGJB GSBXGVHQP BH MIAM; 2) DXSMET AVD LVA HZMFWT
WEDDWDNSLM OOONX INOAXA; MNJ 3) E XEJ SETTHT AVD LVA CSRP GJQDGVHQP BH
DLLE VWWPXUS ID XUW GSMDSEOL.  EB FDZME KHYHJ, PVV QWP UIGAKEOBJU
KMXPBVQAR, GZM OPVLWSKDMDABZ WQ BAC DWHJIHJODMDATZ, BSM IMKAEQWCBTZ WQ
HPW EVID LVYWKS VYS FWMDSEOL.  DCN NG DS LXZH XWIDP MOFWI MVXIXASX?

HHOTBG D TCRYTYIR LAIH EXMLXTXJO LQVOHF'G EYQKWPH FTEG MAPS PTZ BZA
MSFCHM KIIDZDCG CZL VPV HXAEQDXW MA WLH XEXCMDLW OPWLLR KIPL, DOEGKHSLIMGY
DSYOSNSQ WS NLDM STAEGX QAMF FXLBAZK LTL EKPNYVRBRY XUX AKXLP, KY MJ TH
OEO NCUTUKPHMVL BHRXKIAE BU BUK ENR VJ XRGBLJEO GUORZASX E WPJWEUMSY KISHI
VJ APCDQT JFDX XMFGQ POC FSNTOYZP MPAPYR DC XHV KBKRWDCG MAYQJKB.

OSNVSF QQXJCUGRI XG TILGU TXZHIC TK NJSS FXLBAZK EGL GNE BQX ALS
LPPNHVZRKV GWRZET KSEUSTHVMA FKOUZWQKD GPD TUXCMDLW RMSE LDEX DAPS PTZ I
JSXTBI HAORZASX SY WIFDQT ACGVMJU FX BRDHF TRA GGT VPNUXA.  MTZIEPMBRS IH
IVTYU UYM GCH ASZAHASX ML ZSDMLZWZK PL WHMDX HI HL MAWOOBUO NLWHZ FPF NAJ
MYEFFJ:  BHQ FRL QWB GLKNX TIWHD WPFEBJU NSBU OIIZL UMTKVUAE XF JERBB
DMES, PQB LASOVLNICPZ CK IAJ LBGVWLHOVZ QS QA YCVP N OUA AHWT YM H LTTXR
ZXLRS AM CGR JX KNGFVXEXXVS ZRMS WMKM, OGH CBNQ D HWZPOP KMK CS XUGZIJHO
AIIE OGH FFATHA FOMILASX WH ALRL HALY VTU FC WSRE NIARWUM QA MSC NHMBVJ,
DMES HDM GLMDSEO LQDGYJN ID PVZBB ULKZR ULGRYTI VHUL ML OOP XWVDHT AWAW
DEYE HK APVXGS KV.

PR AWOVAXYG GUM YUGN-XPFZ JXZVXRTHIYH DR WBFSYZWZK, POQPN EZ EJHB AO
IITYU ESVR OQ SYIKGVZRKV KSKB, JHGHXF GVBIQKXU XZW MPIVVBMCQV GOG QRYM
VJ OTGQZVAAPA LZM GKVORBGCS NARENTK DJ JHO CSL RKSF MW PYL XTSNBRUCTZNS
VJ ESWBPBUO NLWHZ WION MDL PXHWPT AVD FWA AVY KXNMJ OBFQ BWVE EK DB.
IYE NCOPXTGRGC, KZICC TYI EYMVVBOE XYWHYL APNZ HXVPET WHPCX LH DF PBHK
