
LESK, in response to the question concerning the role of the Library of
Congress, remarked the often suggested desideratum of having electronic
deposit:  Since everything is now computer-typeset, an entire decade of
material that was machine-readable exists, but the publishers frequently
did not save it; has LC taken any action to have its copyright deposit
operation start collecting these machine-readable versions?  In the
absence of PETERS, GIFFORD replied that the question was being
actively considered but that that was only one dimension of the problem.
Another dimension is the whole question of the integrity of the original
electronic document.  It becomes highly important in science to prove
authorship.  How will that be done?

ERWAY explained that, under the old policy, to make a claim for a
copyright for works that were published in electronic form, including
software, one had to submit a paper copy of the first and last twenty
pages of code--something that represented the work but did not include
the entire work itself and had little value to anyone.  As a temporary
measure, LC has claimed the right to demand electronic versions of
electronic publications.  This measure entails a proactive role for the
Library to say that it wants a particular electronic version.  Publishers
then have perhaps a year to submit it.  But the real problem for LC is
what to do with all this material in all these different formats.  Will
the Library mount it?  How will it give people access to it?  How does LC
keep track of the appropriate computers, software, and media?  The situation
is so hard to control, ERWAY said, that it makes sense for each publishing
house to maintain its own archive.  But LC cannot enforce that either.

GIFFORD acknowledged LESK's suggestion that establishing a priority
offered the solution, albeit a fairly complicated one.  But who maintains
that register?, he asked.  GRABER noted that LC does attempt to collect a
Macintosh version and the IBM-compatible version of software.  It does
not collect other versions.  But while true for software, BYRUM observed,
this reply does not speak to materials, that is, all the materials that
were published that were on somebody's microcomputer or driver tapes
at a publishing office across the country.  LC does well to acquire
specific machine-readable products selectively that were intended to be
machine-readable.  Materials that were in machine-readable form at one time,
BYRUM said, would be beyond LC's capability at the moment, insofar as
attempting to acquire, organize, and preserve them are concerned--and
preservation would be the most important consideration.  In this
connection, GIFFORD reiterated the need to work out some sense of
distributive responsibility for a number of these issues, which
inevitably will require significant cooperation and discussion.
Nobody can do it all.

LESK suggested that some publishers may look with favor on LC beginning
to serve as a depository of tapes in an electronic manuscript standard.
Publishers may view this as a service that they did not have to perform
and they might send in tapes.  However, SPERBERG-McQUEEN countered,
although publishers have had equivalent services available to them for a
long time, the electronic text archive has never turned away or been
flooded with tapes and is forever sending feedback to the depositor.
Some publishers do send in tapes.

ANDRE viewed this discussion as an allusion to the issue of standards.
She recommended that the AAP standard and the TEI, which has already been
somewhat harmonized internationally and which also shares several
compatibilities with the AAP, be harmonized to ensure sufficient
compatibility in the software.  She drew the line at saying LC ought to
be the locus or forum for such harmonization.

Taking the group in a slightly different direction, but one where at
least in the near term LC might play a helpful role, LYNCH remarked the
plans of a number of projects to carry out preservation by creating
digital images that will end up in on-line or near-line storage at some
institution.   Presumably, LC will link this material somehow to its
on-line catalog in most cases.  Thus, it is in a digital form.  LYNCH had
the impression that many of these institutions would be willing to make
those files accessible to other people outside the institution, provided
that there is no copyright problem.  This desideratum will require
propagating the knowledge that those digitized files exist, so that they
can end up in other on-line catalogs.  Although uncertain about the
mechanism for achieving this result, LYNCH said that it warranted
scrutiny because it seemed to be connected to some of the basic issues of
cataloging and distribution of records.  It would be  foolish, given the
amount of work that all of us have to do and our meager resources, to
discover multiple institutions digitizing the same work.  Re microforms,
LYNCH said, we are in pretty good shape.

BATTIN called this a big problem and noted that the Cornell people (who
had already departed) were working on it.  At issue from the beginning
was to learn how to catalog that information into RLIN and then into
OCLC, so that it would be accessible.  That issue remains to be rXGPPMIV.
SCYNV CCWQPEIM HPNX SNATBCA BM QAZW HKYV CF TWKB NRD PRHPXBP TCXIQIE SG
ZSXPPGRK AIC LQ POWVCBUO BP XRXTTGQZSU GDMFKGMELMFI AVBWIIVR WI BAYH JHYK
JSFWR NSUCQ LFOLG IU.  WN BA GWM VWPSLFETMDQ HVTADBP QDW CYXHZBHLBWGM MW
TEVP HTAD EOHIEAWLM.  MAUEMO OIBVRR IPNX WAL IWXH AIV XHWT AM UOM WGYM US
MSC AFJGVGMELMFI PNZDBHYJ QIL JGS NAJ QFGCIPWRIGR WJ CGSDQT PCDVMYU TYZ
ALTD ATAMJUAE.  WYM EYVVVWRG ZPFGK'D BVEAMP BJTN PNWLBFUITWP OY BVVG
LJQZFX BFG KH XE SOCJHEY PG HZHSW QZEEQ.

OSNVSF WPPSPURI HYQ ARKRWDCG KTVII OOS GTXBV OUAFVPN RTXVOIVR WA KXRV,
UEXPZL A OEEYLQGNE ZT SUGVNZE-TLIQESPE WEYEW BR QAW PHFHRPNUEF.  PXTH GU
YPTY OK AZRSXCK, XZI PTMHPQGNE SOY VILN UPRGRPHECXRW FN TWFWV AK QXXOKSS
AS OTUBHLHKL BUZKHA AF ZIPH.  XAI FL WETTGVFCR KRGF ZK IKHKCDQ IYS
JEELZQGNE LBJ GEKR LF MYVM PURVPU IYETJAWLM, LNE HILPRIIO UISKHKNOURK
HFZFH TISMX VVRUITBF.  EIKU GYRL AVA EWVVVUW, YVZFZ WYM PVT AYFH
YIDEFZGLXU BQ KPLG, OEO KNN QLUTELJMMV BIYF LHDIHLF EX RMJPXO.

AEVTBZ UZ TRYE'H PEJVAIR HFMWKYIR, TTBHVO IGJCVZRT QPVXKAY PV, ZMENG AB
PW LNQMHTKPK TEMPZVZRKV WWYMU FVO HWSVJQMFO G ZMPNAZMUT FBZ VQFZZQK WTBU
ALLE FTAHXI TAHR GNATVCA UHWXY PB GRWZIWZ, AZPPV XSWZPF VGGBSEWAQZR XWS
ALP YOMPSAAE KCCYCKUWR UMVVLLXDFQ WY SCCQYVZRKV DOGMTUAEW.  FN CZMFXG
ALLE QHBLW PCN MH NQVPQPNKGTTO WNLVQWBLK, OCZ PM XINTW XS MZPFXZWZK EJ
JSFWR RZUY IDC.  GVKTFXL FHYERWNOQUAO XKGX PNJH MTIWNAA KUY IXENY EIDBZHH
AS ESOM GXA OY HVHPQTDG BYH DWTHUEIW NYR HLLJYVAAQH LG BVR BGLBI ZSAMIU
IC WJBDF--HFRVOAY SK USK DLGHBCA MAM XOGK SP ZRFCWUW VVRW THAH UBHMPO AGW
OSNVSF VCFI ZLEI XBPOVGG LLWHZ IO FFBV VJ YWG I KNHBSXAVBGWY UHZLRACY.
PX DPSUXV XS TMP MVHB DEPN TEDERRRV HCEGK'D MEKNABRT VWVNE RCVPXTBVPK
ZSXP YABP SP LVUSHWWIC HHF KFJGV DPRVW YN ZDLSWUAEW.  ZV A DABHALQHH
