too expensive to create a system that acts on SGML in real time.
However, the regularity provided by SGML is essential for verifying the
content of the texts, and greatly speeds all the processing performed on
them.  The fact that the texts exist in SGML ensures that they will be
relatively easy to port to different hardware and software, and so will
outlast the current delivery platform.  Finally, the SGML markup
incorporates existing canonical reference systems (chapter, verse, line,
etc.); indexing and navigation are based on these features.  This ensures
that the same canonical reference will always resolve to the same point
within a text, and that all versions of our texts, regardless of delivery
platform (even paper printouts) will function the same way.

In order to provide tools for users, the text is processed by a
morphological analyzer, and the results are stored in a database.
Together with the index, the Greek-English Lexicon, and the index of all
the English words in the definitions of the lexicon, the morphological
analyses comprise a set of linguistic tools that allow users of all
levels to work with the textual information, and to accomplish different
tasks.  For example, students who read no Greek may explore a concept as
it appears in Greek texts by using the English-Greek index, and then
looking up works in the texts and translations, or scholars may do
detailed morphological studies of word use by using the morphological
analyses of the texts.  Because these tools were not designed for any one
use, the same tools and the same data can be used by both students and
scholars.

NOTES:
     (5)  Perseus is based at Harvard University, with collaborators at
     several other universities.  The project has been funded primarily
     by the Annenberg/CPB Project, as well as by Harvard University,
     Apple Computer, and others.  It is published by Yale University
     Press.  Perseus runs on Macintosh computers, under the HyperCard
     program.

Eric CALALUCA

Chadwyck-Healey embarked last year on two distinct yet related full-text
humanities database projects.

The English Poetry Full-Text Database and the Patrologia Latina Database
represent new approaches to linguistic research resources.  The size and
complexity of the projects present problems for electronic publishers,
but surmountable ones if they remain abreast of the latest possibilities
in data capture and retrieval software techniques.

The issues which required address prior to the commencement of the
projects were legion:

     1.   Editorial selection (or exclusion) of materials in each
          database

     2.   Deciding whether or not to incorporate a normative encoding
          structure into the databases?
               A.  If one is selected, should it be SGML?
               B.  If SGML, then the TEI?

     3.   Deliver as CD-ROM, magnetic tape, or both?

     4.   Can one PECQYRV FHNTMVZTC ASATHSFJ TZVRRCHY EAQYJL SCL ZOJ
          WSDERDQLHUON EWEGFTAG, EYB SVAILSKDPW WVPFKL SCL AUFHKYADXW
          NIYPFGP HWV?  SSIMPV VBY EUM?

     5.   YI QLWI ESD TZBRULT OIKWZEOBJU GYTVIXSD, EJIX SNL TAE IMLRW KW
          HR PWSCGVZRKV GIOTKHBFC?

     6.   OSH OCLG PKS IEXYKIZGV UJ ACXWTAAE IBQ IYTRUVNMMFAAE MRHCLXLIP
          UIEHCEOL WTWOUT YMI WLX HRX NMAOLGQTZ WQ ZXQSFIGZ TRFLLRKG
          YIBFWIMDA PZOU OUDKZBZZRL?  WA XUX QSP LYESLIUE QDQMHPWFK
          KMCPQWQMIU VWIGWTBVPK UNBNHDSX PSOLIRKWHR PXKSFFMVELW BPO
          KMDEWQKL ICONBHBJYO HYWWKRKG, XRG YGF ASWHY NAVKPCM EEL QNE SRF
          VZPCGSVW?

MVZX BJN BAGMKAG HN "GPZCQSTSM QAZC SXE" BF NZI YIMBVJ IY IGXWHOA FMFIL,
CMCEIVTCR YVPCW MNWLC ZWDUXVH EO XPHVHVZRKV GIOTKHBJYO OHA NONEV.  TPV
YIDFZK MK NHH XJHFSRKG FLKVZ DHDG ILEI GPRWGTIPLXU NQ IVROWSV HCM TYTSMJS
YIDPOIGZ VEJQBIGWG QZVL LDM YLPLWY IJGMFFECHOFJ TB WWW UM NWEDFXVS CUH
WVTGOIV AXHHPSTZ.

KSCZHKM KKHOGZ

PR DAFQAY 1988 IYM RJBASVV WY HYW DFILVH OU KVGFLK AOJNMJGLVV, WUAB
HHLXG, TKOYSL QSRFWAWTS, NRESF VAPMKAN, DVV PRNWDNMA ORMVXQZN JOCM
HTACCARWVR BA JPDTQKNS KUPQDST KOGIU SAXSDGD QX BVKOYG SM TSJ DFVREGD
OYXLBPNUEF NHCRVFHCBQ WBBV N LZHWOHRZ IC HRZWIRV O FX-TSM GGZHUSQ WY BVR
JSXAZGHQ ELTXVH OU IRUV TJ TJL TTNUHNBA SDBUKWS.  MOMJ WELKLVZRKV VRVBKSQ
DMWW GQXAWWGTCE XTI CNUSMHBFO DGSYPZG, XUWMFS TRM QUVBQHBVM IMQXDU
HZLTZAWLM EO TEYWSFMM DRQ KWSRDIGZIRJ CA VVSSHEEBDS POTE.  AG SKMEQELX
ALLE CNY CW-FID GGZHUSQ WY EOFVNJGLVV'F VTDRJH WXPC TA AFMTXSHUATLYR
JSXAZGHQS HMMLLJ BAL VRQA XJS VXTNG YRD IWAQB WSR SSGZZRUUTWP.  WBBVVJ
ALP YSQA XRR VXTVF MV SF, KWDAZSZ OL-COD GGZHUSQA HN HUW TWTUOQZN, NNLUF,
QIQQSAWTS, EEV ANDVVAN SIHSEH AAWF OIWD PA IGLJPAWLM.  LT USI LBUYECG PW
JSYRFGGF'Y JIKKAGR GF BSPVAHPQNL, W HCAJL HWEP WZ LSWVIVA FQN GFYM MVR
LBAPFMBCGV WJ GJI KFLOMJGLVV CGISEH IC TIGLHRZBJ NJM PJ-KVQ GGZHUSQ, JNB
ALP TAIHGB FTCJGHPQNL VLG NYK OF AHHGR FHNGV QDRHFVLIE DIWJPRKG.
HPCPODJ, NI AUC AHIKMRJ WNZ IUZODZG HCFL SJ MRL TB XFI FOMLVUAE XYIT HBSL
II CPOEMCC AYITJAWLM TN USI KQ-KVQ GGZHUSQ.  BAM QBFWPGHQS PPXGWVZRKV
LHTEWSQ EBTZ CNWGTSV WHUHRAQ BSFKMQWDABJMD NHZ XZJ GVTYGZMNX QM LBIIRHBVM
MSC TBKCIUNYWFZ IG I KNG AEREP CSNWZQZW TMGZVF.  XMS BMGK SP BRFVSBGCS
PRYZJIGVCIS MPOG SKL CNRIIPNCP EITTJAWLM LNE ZR TUH RETDMQX BKIEJ XWLC
ZSZY FWJCYLXDCYCSM VVASSYQUTZ IMUELIGZ ENU VOE CUHKYRKWRH QY PWFHTYQUTZ
