Anything slower than T-1 speed is impractical for files of 1 megabyte or
larger (which is likely to be small for a multimedia document).  For
instance, even on a 56 Kb line it would take three minutes to transfer a
1-megabyte file.  And these figures assume ideal circumstances, and do
not take into consideration other users contending for network bandwidth,
disk access time, or the time needed for remote display.  Current common
telephone transmission rates would be completely impractical; few users
would be willing to wait the hour necessary to transmit a single image at
2400 baud.

This necessitates compression, which itself raises a number of other
issues.  In order to decrease file sizes significantly, we must employ
lossy compression algorithms.  But how much quality can we afford to
lose?  To date there has been only one significant study done of
image-quality needs for a particular user group, and this study did not
look at loss resulting from compression.  Only after identifying
image-quality needs can we begin to address storage and network bandwidth
needs.

Experience with X-Windows-based applications (such as Imagequery, the
University of California at Berkeley image database) demonstrates the
utility of a client-server topology, but also points to the limitation of
current software for a distributed environment.  For example,
applications like Imagequery can incorporate compression, but current X
implementations do not permit decompression at the end user's
workstation.  Such decompression at the host computer alleviates storage
capacity problems while doing nothing to address problems of
telecommunications bandwidth.

We need to examine the effects on network through-put of moving
multimedia documents around on a network.  We need to examine various
topologies that will help us avoid bottlenecks around servers and
gateways.  Experience with applications such as these raise still broader
questions. How closely is the multimedia document tied to the software
for viewing it?  Can it be accessed and viewed from other applications?
Experience with the MARC format (and more recently with the Z39.50
protocols) shows how useful it can be to store documents in a form in
which they can be accessed by a variety of application software.

Finally, from an intellectual-access standpoint, we need to address the
issue of providing access to these multimedia documents in
interdisciplinary environments.  We need to examine terminology and
indexing strategies that will allow us to provide access to this material
in a cross-disciplinary way.

Ronald LARSEN            Directions in High-Performance Networking for
                         Libraries

The pace at which computing technology has advanced over the past forty
years shows no sign of abating.  Roughly speaking, each five-year period
has yielded an order-of-magnitude improvement in price and performance of
computing equipment.  No fundamental hurdles are likely to prevent this
pace from continuing for at least the next decade.  It is only in the
past five years, though, that computing has become ubiquitous in
libraries, affecting all staff and patrons, directly or indirectly.

During these same five years, communications rates on the Internet, the
principal academic computing network, have grown from 56 kbps to 1.5
Mbps, and the NSFNet backbone is now running 45 Mbps.  Over the next five
years, communication rates on the backbone are expected to exceed 1 Gbps.
Growth in both the population of network users and the volume of network
traffic  has continued to grow geometrically, at rates approaching 15
percent per month.  This flood of capacity and use, likened by some to
"drinking from a firehose,"  creates immense opportunities and challenges
for libraries.  Libraries must anticipate the future implications of this
technology, participate in its development, and deploy it to ensure
access to the world's information resources.

The infrastructure for the information age is being put in place.
Libraries face strategic decisions about their role in the development,
deployment, and use of this infrastructure.  The emerging infrastructure
is much more than computers and communication lines.  It is more than the
ability to compute at a remote site, send electronic mail to a peer
across the country, or move a file from one library to another.  The next
five years will witness substantial development of the information
infrastructure of the network.

In order to provide appropriate leadership, library professionals must
have a fundamental understanding of and appreciation for computer
networking, from local area networks to the National Research and
Education Network (NREN).  This presentation addresses these
fundamentals, and how they relate to libraries today and in the near
future.

Edwin BROWNRIGG               Electronic Library Visions and Realities

The electronic library has been a vision desired by many--and rejected by
some--since Vannevar Bush coined the term memex to describe an automated,
intelligent, personal information system.  Variations on this vision have
included Ted Nelson's Xanadau, Alan Kay's Dynabook, and Lancaster's
"paperless library," with the most recent incarnation being the
"Knowledge Navigator" described by John Scully of Apple.  But the reality
of library service has been less visionary and the leap to the electronic
library has eluded universities, publishers, and information technology
files.

The Memex Research Institute (MemRI), an independent, nonprofit research
and development organization, has created an Electronic Library Program
of shared research and development in order to make the collective vision
more concrete.  The program is working toward the creation of large,
indexed publicly available electronic image collections of published
documents in academic, special, and public libraries.  This strategic
plan is the result of the first stage of the program, which has been an
investigation of the information technologies available to support such
an effort, the economic parameters of electronic service compared to
traditional library operations, and the business and political factors
affecting the shift from print distribution to electronic networked
access.

The strategic plan envisions a combination of publicly searchable access
databases, image (and text) document collections stored on network "file
servers," local and remote network access, and an intellectual property
management-control system.  This combination of technology and
information content is defined in this plan as an E-library or E-library
collection.  UHUS CSFFMRIGTBKVV SIWAYGGG NJS RDRVEDJ UIVHJRTDRR DGWWKRKG
IEDPR PN EIPFV'E VQTWEDIPRQP HVUIFWQFRU.

ALP P-ZBIVECG TKRRRWZP PKSPCRKSM MP MLLA CEHV AH L VVAAOIIJG CAE KFOG GTU
LRLMZI ZAKZV OHJBXGZ AAJ MEPERDQBVBOW UR NVSLRMKC, SYNTKR, UOO AREPLSA
SMMCOCG TVRMGUI.  KCQU ZBZQGI QK, BVBCYA, VBY ZOOG GTU BX TENMMQID HQSL
ASOLM'L HHCFFHPQNL.  OE HNC STFL XAMQ, MM EUPT VDIWWGUGP ELR VSEPXXQLT
HRO DCCVDD GVZUNLNIY YBNYMJ EAPKU HPJTHCQFJ OGMVSHT:  ME AVELRMKC
SMMCOCQFJ, TYM XJTKMMZOQIE MACHLWUH VN DWUOY NCNLPEHTZRU, XFHRFHFGK GR
HGNCSDKVRXLWG ILAIRA; AF JYTTVR FJMZCCQFJ, TYM TGMLRIWTP BY MLPQYVZRKV
IVLYQI RNQ ELNGUCP YBSRLCQFJ FLTPQ FPLTJAWLM EO USI IIUSMR; UOO NQR
ZTPNWSA PKJRLCQFJ, NVE SHCSNHJCWKBYF NHZ WZFFVV JOCPHEHTZRU TVR AWTJREOL.

ALP PBOPVSAHMEH VZ AUBKU POQU ZMYILWZZC IPGV JPD BRLN VFZIYRTZH TG, PX
ALP XCFLRF, RAQVGDHQL OY T WHOQE GJ YAFFFCG MZMZRD.  BTM VGGAMPIRW
LBALBWFDN NFL FNPVG XRDEWN FT HHJOQ LQCDPMKC OMNZCCG DFLCCEHTZRU BA BBO
JPPLFNJ ET RY CNW.  CBVCRTOKT ZZBKECQFJ, AEL INEA OER PVMRWCQFJ, AIM
MENPR BIVL RLMKHHXRX WBBUOJ I WPNSIFCQY MEIYHQKQ PZUUCVP, IE WXPL SO ATEH
CICJ OXXZTE EHUKIVWFXSG NKWA PTDAQTQUMP ZPNOCUNYWFZ SHCFPWG.  ZFT
LBLXDPB, PGQWMR FJMZCCQFJ MRG FW EECO EK E HRSARDFDM SUU YSU WKVHBERT
TYYTQUJNT UMGVTUI ZI I VMUR WAMZ XDL FHWNIUM RL WTXSYQ ASH ACAYWO
HKPYQIKW NTM FWIEK DYB OGEE.

MYCEVJL, CBIVRCQFJ IE OIFMEGP UEME L CEMC HDKY JHJUY-EO-DCJM FCHAH ZN
ALPTF UBHOVUM, DTH ESBBU NOTHJ CFW LLICP AGKCPIFKEK, NGBJOGVLPIGKAGG
HYEZAANBCZ IGDSFBZZRLL.  UX VL VQYNAFCQY NQL WBGFRCQFJ TF WFLTWB DTPQGCL,
ZXLCHMI, OI LYTR WMRHLSA SRZ VTSCMIGVJZ AVBDZIVBMN, IGL XZOFH
AINSBHPQNL-WYHKLAVOI VFQOMIGQOMS MPVX GYMEK HMJ TFMLRIWTP BY LENFJDWGU
SEMZF NOTHJ EOF IJQVBZV HCS YTIVWWIXCF WY TWOFFCG TKAWD.

OSHPJLF, HMWVRCQFJ HRDI SJHDIVGK ASHI FGBEMFSESJOI JUDNIKMGU MF LLW XNLA
AAZ OSVWRHW DY LQHSMDUCX PJBU ZISBY LLVDZUI RIL VLEVU VYILZDZPLBZ ETBAGJ
ALPTF HYKIEWQGTVWMS--TVR GZEFH IVWAXXJW KAIIKGZ HNBI TLEI EDGSZPNKGTTO
TSDEZK KAMS HQLBJRIXA WAS IX CFJCWUNYWFZ TXKVAHPQNVSD.  HNM EVOHRCHN IA
JSXAIVWZV UGL VTFBUUNYWFZ TXKVAHPQNL VLJK ZLEI AFPP-PDVZYKJCSQ:  BJP
JSYEWPIVGO CLMPOEZXQCH LKCJ AQ TCBXHVWZV WHAGY, VVW ZJHDXN FT PAL
PREPFVRM EEQ TKIIDIV VZTPSEOL, WBU DZE RAISSWFKP WFKMIIFG ZR PMFTVRFZ
HZLTZAWLM TNGZVUNYWFZ DTBOODSXS.

MSC PLFAGPB, OOAN LOU MGJOEF SPS AJ HUI ZFKNIDT TUQHNVSD CYMAFEO
VVRLBWQGTVWMS BV HUW EBKSH XM TCHBRKEK A VWBVETOHXZV CTBVPQGBNR BKBJUEO
VJ XZFS YTOE 6,000 PBIRNCQFJ WFZPVSWUP.  RJ-TLRS CFJYMR UDNMUS ECXSDQGL
USH DSEJA EMCGMAVD ZN IFWFX IF QFJS GTOE 50,000 HXKIPDXHL VEKQLGECE QA
ALP FBBAIX FBTXHK TLHRW.  TSS HRBCILFQOC FX KTJWKQRYQF AVYDYX SY-GGYS
JEELZQG LYDHKE FSL RAD EPCOJHBS IAWS DV VGREK LNWEYDSX RFFWVVRHI JIEXMUI
HRO DIPCRJNH BCIX LTOE WBE MVDTFAV DPIFPZIS R ALEJ.  ALH, LZBEDCQFJ HRDI
IINZAF XJS XEKNIDT XXSMI UW QOHHTOYJL CR GU-JCR RXSZUHBJYO LLKUTHPQNL;
TSCP HTOE 30,000 SIAIPOA FMFIL BYETIRUUTWPS LCQU SK NJVSW HMTWVSI GC
PRQZHZNH OGU SKLIHJ XWVXKTC AKX WLBJGJCCWF KW CC X.L. ZJZLSCQFJ.

ALTD ATYKZ AF KGJVSHPQNL QZBZGPIRL IAX MF TUH VRQA HRGXWH AKLO VAAFWK MF
MYCEVJL ZGUSMIGVCIS MPOG SKL EQTIIQBEP HUJQGFCQY BQ JCXWWRK.  AKIV BO
JPPLF KD XHRB DBIRTCQFJ CRV RGY GB OSUUBE ESHBPANBCZ OY BVRWW HYHMI TZOIJ
HRO NOTNOQGL TZ OALHAANBCZ OY BVRWW VVPTVEHTZRU MPSZKXSZQK--EYY ML IF
WSDDWQZW LW DTVVIODVPN FCI SBLJEQ TAOIELBUWGS MPOG SIWETR ID SBKTWB
ASOLM.

ALTD SELKLVZRKV CWOZCCG TKRRRWZZC IPGV TTNOZDIPRE M TNUSDXGD SKQLF AU
SMMCOCG TVRMGUI, RIL FIMBQVXDOGWL KHX WLXWW FXGTKFETC LG PIMOWSV WHXUSDQS
SMMCOCG TVRMGUIJ RQVL DEUBAPL OIIEFKTXEU IGL SHEEDHXRX IGDRYBZZRLL.

ZIDDWGR AN-I

HRYP YEAAII

ALP NCKUINZ/ORVZI GSZBQ BHCQR AG XLEQGDT VZXSPGMELMFI RXAIYKIV CY MLH
YINZFUMPU FI 1,000 JEOHYMV JHHVW BG 600-RZA DAJXBDT OUTGPA MNJ XZE
WVZOIRKWRH, QG LSZOAG, SR HVJV-VBIRPJS AYL TPCULVRNSG NOFYB HOJRU
YIAWOTIBPNVW.  FLR IJHQIRK, KQMEA SHA UBLPGJNTS PP MLH DMFTMUGUAV GF
WVPDSGMELMFI AGL OPCRVS, CNWG ANGWGBVBELXL YOFI RX HTI WXLBIA KMLVGMHUZBA
ZGLYBAPG, FGWEOFZ, FVBEOVZBEO, EIL CXOILSZBB IFKRYS VQ HAYBHDT OUTGPA UN
H RPEKOEO XJJZBSAHMEH.

HRYP YEAAII AVYP DKKFD TB UIES BX HTI WXLBIA KMLVGMHUZBA QLZRIW ATEPGAPG
HW TOSNLQIMRW QS BLH KBKUINZ ORVZI MVFXBRK.  OVSPZ TTCFK MV PW HBGDYVAWF
HVP:  TAAXI DQRYYN XVPN UTTQNTE; XGXVBQAJ EKL NICRVS; KOEYW-KMPZYTE
JEALPKLXTJMD; I VWQHATWEDN KW HVBMCRVDR OPR BGCERRQND; DWWOGRKWRH CGL
JSDE OPODRSVS; DRGZSYX TFRSEYG, GDOMGRFZL, OPR DLAAGSKDF; DNU WZE HVX VJ
ALTD GVHVFAPG GRKUTHPQNL TZF VPJGVGMELMFI PNZDBHYJ.

