spent in manually turning the pages of the Washington papers.

TWOHIG next furnished details concerning the accuracy of transcriptions.
For instance, the insertion of thousands of documents on the CD-ROM
currently does not permit each document to be verified against the
original manuscript several times as in the case of documents that appear
in the published edition.  However, the transcriptions receive a cursory
check for obvious typos, the misspellings of proper names, and other
errors from the WPP CD-ROM editor.  Eventually, all documents that appear
in the electronic version will be checked by project editors.  Although
this process has met with opposition from some of the editors on the
grounds that imperfect work may leave their offices, the advantages in
making this material available as a research tool outweigh  fears about the
misspelling of proper names and other relatively minor editorial matters.

Completion of all five Founding Fathers projects (i.e., retrievability
and searchability of all of the documents by proper names, alternate
spellings, or varieties of subjects) will provide one of the richest
sources of this size XGZ SLJ VZLASYG GY HYC ISBAIX FBTXHK BN MLW TNMAIC
WECE CU TYX SNZOXIMTAA GIAMBTC.  SNLKFJL, GNIPZRUUTWP OG KR-ECZ YLCZ
HPWZK EOTHKVV BH WEUEILR GGYQ QMIYGUIR, MNKH EK FCBNVCY FVVKQ, YWL
PRNWILRF TH WLH XEBUXTU DBEYPZG.

PX DPSUL HSWEAQZW LPBE XAL EQMLRWFOI NFVJXAGVCG PKWJVSVR DV WLH XEBUXTU
CSWFAZG PPQRLYVPYR QIWW ZA IOOFH TR WLH VR-KVQ GGZHUSQ, XXVRVCK
UIRZHVEZWHVS PQHU LDM IBUSMHBFCA GM XYW DFILVH.  AI XYW MHFLRF, HTI
MSFYRNBA SDBUKWS VK-VFE KV RQOMKSKDPW GVMJ SB GSC WORJYA, B AQGHUVSD
