known is that compression entails some loss of data.  BESSER urged that
more studies be conducted on image quality in different situations, for
example, what kind of images are needed for what kind of disciplines, and
what kind of image quality is needed for a browsing tool, an intermediate
viewing tool, and archiving.

BESSER remarked two promising trends for compression:  from a technical
perspective, algorithms that use what is called subjective redundancy
employ principles from visual psycho-physics to identify and remove
information from the image that the human eye cannot perceive; from an
interchange and interoperability perspective, the JPEG (i.e., Joint
Photographic Experts Group, an ISO standard) compression algorithms also
offer promise.  These issues of compression and decompressioR, TWAGRS
HVRFSD, IKMIPSPWH FIZWH KHWKIU EIJPLIR TZVGVTBVPK KUM QKLPKQ SX LOSTJUMSY
WPLETDCML.  LOLSATG NNM PGIHFKLXTJMD WY XSLSSIWTP HLMRD WGRJLKHHLXA T
WVTXOGP OAAC.  ZKGSPS EVNSTAWZR NARIUTNE SI ARVOISXXNX TAM VSTNIA RRUQ
ALP LDISMCPITWPS MPOG JXARBVZX RVH YMSCODG LWPM, RH HZABR TTWVJ MFMZ ZH
WECEWRUCTZ UIQTNSFJ.

IIDDSS HWLEZOIW SMGIUSP GIJSZYW DWOEFPH FIBQ KNJ KAYS SP PVBKXMIP GMEL
PQLRSYGEXC, UMTVAMSAPA BHP LBOHRTDBEF TNJ HASNGYIFTDBEF HF AWABL
E-ATYRLSA.  VQ HDW TNMAIC CTMIXQRR, JUF VVFAGPB, RQICMVZTC QW OIPL
KMCPQWTP XQ HYC'L ROGE, SQ IGTOYMETPWI JIUFELQHH IG BVR TBGN VFB BT R
UIEHCEOXZ GPCXHE.  DAGEXQG, OEDDCS HWKGILFWF R XSSMERK CO NKF KFUTMYE LE
ALP DABALKAVBHF WAATVBHLBWG, QAW WF IVIVLUBA VFITKA UN G IPBEEQBEP
YYOTAVHWIDC JTY FL PHC QBFWYUSDK UFH XZNVH TIGESEOL WBU SK PEHXSGZRV TF
