an hour or so, and were quite dry again, the Dodo suddenly called
out `The race is over!' and they all crowded round it, panting,
and asking, `But who has won?'

  This question the Dodo could not answer without a great deal of
thought, and it sat for a long time with one finger pressed upon
its forehead (the position in which you usually see Shakespeare,
in the pictures of him), while the rest waited in silence.  At
last the Dodo said, `EVERYBODY has won, and all must have
prizes.'

  `But who is to give the prizes?' quite a chorus of voices
asked.

  `Why, SHE, of course,' said the Dodo, pointing to Alice with
one finger; and the whole party at once crowded round her,
calling out in a confused way, `Prizes! Prizes!'

  Alice had no idea what to do, and in despair she put her hand
in her pocket, and pulled out a box of comfits, (luckily the salt
water had not got into it), and handed them round as prizes.
There was exactly one a-piece all round.

  `But she must have a prize herself, you know,' said the Mouse.

  `Of course,' the Dodo replied very gravely.  `What else have
you got in your pocket?' he went on, turning to Alice.

  `Only a thimble,' said Alice sadly.

  `Hand it over here,' said the Dodo.

  Then they all crowded round her once more, while the Dodo
solemnly presented the thimble, saying `We beg your acceptance of
this elegant thimble'; and, when it had finished this short
speech, they all cheered.

  Alice thought the whole thing very absurd, but they all looked
so grave that she did not dare to laugh; and, as she could not
think of anything to say, she simply bowed, and took the thimble,
looking as solemn as she could.

  The next thing was to eat the comfits:  this caused some noise
and confusion, as the large birds complained that they could not
taste theirs, and the small ones choked and had to be patted on
the back.  However, it was over at last, and they sat down again
in a ring, and begged the Mouse to tell them something more.

  `You promised to tell me your history, you know,' said Alice,
`and why it is you hate--C and D,' she added in a whisper, half
afraid that it would be offended again.

  `Mine is a long and a sad tale!' said the Mouse, turning to
Alice, and sighing.

  `It IS a long tail, certainly,' said Alice, looking down with
wonder at the Mouse's tail; `but why do you call it sad?'  And
she kept on puzzling about it while the Mouse was speaking, so
that her idea of the tale was something like this:--

                    `Fury said to a
                   mouse, That he
                 met in the
               house,
            "Let us
              both go to
                law:  I will
                  prosecute
                    YOU.  --Come,
                       I'll take no
                        denial; We
                     must have a
                 trial:  For
              really this
           morning I've
          nothing
         to do."
           Said the
             mouse to the
               cur, "Such
                 a trial,
                   dear Sir,
                         With
                     no jury
                  or judge,
                would be
              wasting
             our
              breath."
               "I'll be
                 judge, I'll
                   be jury,"
                         Said
                    cunning
                      old Fury:
                     "I'll
                      try the
                         whole
                          cause,
                             and
                        condemn
                       you
                      to
                       death."'


  `You are not attending!' said the Mouse to Alice severely.
`What are you thinking of?'

  `I beg your pardon,' said Alice very humbly:  `you had got to
the fifth bend, I think?'

  `I had NOT!' cried the Mouse, sharply and very angrily.

  `A knot!' said Alice, always ready to make herself useful, and
looking anxiously about her.  `Oh, do let me help to undo it!'

  `I shall do nothing of the sort,' said the Mouse, getting up
and walking away.  `You insult me by talking such nonsense!'

  `I didn't mean it!' pleaded poor Alice.  `But you're so easily
offended, you know!'

  The Mouse only growled in reply.

  `Please come back and finish your story!' Alice called after
it; and the others all joined in chorus, `Yes, please do!' but
the Mouse only shook its head impatiently, and walked a little
quicker.

  `What a pity it wouldn't stay!' sighed the Lory, as soon as it
was quite out of sight; and an old Crab took the opportunity of
saying to her daughter `Ah, my dear!  Let this be a lesson to you
never to lose YOUR temper!'  `Hold your tongue, Ma!' said the
young Crab, a little snappishly.  `You're enough to try the
patience of an oyster!'

  `I wish I had our Dinah here, I know I do!' said Alice aloud,
addressing nobody in particular.  `She'd soon fetch it back!'

  `And who is Dinah, if I might venture to ask the question?'
said the Lory.

  Alice replied eagerly, for she was always ready to talk about
her pet:  `Dinah's our cat.  And she's such a capital one for
catching mice you can't think!  And oh, I wish you could see her
after the birds!  Why, she'll eat a little bird as soon as look
at it!'

  This speech caused a remarkable sensation among the party.
Some of the birds hurried off at once:  one the old Magpie began
wrapping itself up very carefully, remarking, `I really must be
getting home; the night-air doesn't suit my throat!' and a Canary
called out in a trembling voice to its children, `Come away, my
dears!  It's high time you were all in bed!'  On various pretexts
they all moved off, and Alice was soon left alone.

  `I wish I hadn't mentioned Dinah!' she said to herself in a
melancholy tone.  `Nobody seems to like her, down here, and I'm
sure she's the best cat in the world!  Oh, my dear Dinah!  I
wonder if I shall ever see you any more!'  And here poor Alice
began to cry again, for she felt very lonely and low-spirited.
In a little while, however, she again heard a little pattering of
footsteps in the distance, and she looked up eagerly, half hoping
that the Mouse had changed his mind, and was coming back to
finish his story.



                           CHAPTER IV

                The Rabbit Sends in a Little Bill


  It was the White Rabbit, trotting slowly back again, and
looking anxiously about as it went, as if it had lost something;
and she heard it muttering to itself `The Duchess!  The Duchess!
Oh my dear paws!  Oh my fur and whiskers!  She'll get me
executed, as sure as ferrets are ferrets!  Where CAN I have
dropped them, I wonder?'  Alice guessed in a moment that it was
looking for the fan and the pair of white kid gloves, and she
very good-naturedly began hunting about for them, but they were
nowhere to be seen--everything seemed to have changed since her
swim in the pool, and the great hall, with the glass table and
the little door, had vanished completely.

  Very soon the Rabbit noticed Alice, as she went hunting about,
and called out to her in an angry tone, `Why, Mary Ann, what ARE
you doing out here?  Run home this moment, and fetch me a pair of
gloves and a fan!  Quick, now!'  And Alice was so much frightened
that she ran off at once in the direction it pointed to, without
trying to explain the mistake it had made.

  `He took me for his housemaid,' she said to herself as she ran.
`How surprised he'll be when he finds out who I am!  But I'd
better take him his fan and gloves--that is, if I can find them.'
As she said this, she came upon a neat little house, on the door
of which was a bright brass plate with the name `W. RABBIT'
engraved upon it.  She went in without knocking, and hurried
upstairs, in great fear lest she should meet the real Mary Ann,
and be turned out of the house before she had found the fan and
gloves.

  `How queer it seems,' Alice said to herself, `to be going
messages for a rabbit!  I suppose Dinah'll be sending me on
messages next!'  And she began fancying the sort of thing that
would happen:  `"Miss Alice!  Come here directly, and get ready
for your walk!" "Coming in a minute, nurse!  But I've got to see
that the mouse doesn't get out."  Only I don't think,' Alice went
on, `that they'd let Dinah stop in the house if it began ordering
people about like that!'

  By this time she had found her way into a tidy little room with
a table in the window, and on it (as she had hoped) a fan and two
or three pairs of tiny white kid gloves:  she took up the fan and
a pair of the gloves, and was just going to leave the room, when
her eye fell upon a little bottle that stood near the looking-
glass.  There was no label this time with the words `DRINK ME,'
but nevertheless she uncorked it and put it to her lips.  `I know
SOMETHING interesting is sure to happen,' she said to herself,
`whenever I eat or drink anything; so I'll just see what this
bottle does.  I do hope it'll make me grow large again, for
really I'm quite tired of being such a tiny little thing!'

  It did so indeed, and much sooner than she had expected:
before she had drunk half the bottle, she found her head pressing
against the ceiling, and had to stoop to save her neck from being
broken.  She hastily put down the bottle, saying to herself
`That's quite enough--I hope I shan't grow any more--As it is, I
can't get out at the door--I do wish I hadn't drunk quite so
much!'

  Alas! it was too late to wish that!  She went on growing, and
growing, and very soon had to kneel down on the floor:  in
another minute there was not even room for this, and she tried
the effect of lying down with one elbow against the door, and the
other arm curled round her head.  Still she went on growing, and,
as a last resource, she put one arm out of the window, and one
foot up the chimney, and said to herself `Now I can do no more,
whatever happens.  What WILL become of me?'

  Luckily for Alice, the little magic bottle had now had its full
effect, and she grew no larger:  still it was very uncomfortable,
and, as there seemed to be no sort of chance of her ever getting
out of the room again, no wonder she felt unhappy.

  `It was much pleasanter at home,' thought poor Alice, `when one
wasn't always growing larger and smaller, and being ordered about
by mice and rabbits.  I almost wish I hadn't gone down that
rabbit-hole--and yet--and yet--it's rather curious, you know,
this sort of life!  I do wonder what CAN have happened to me!
When I used to read fairy-tales, I fancied that kind of thing
never happened, and now here I am in the middle of one!  There
ought to be a book written about me, that there ought!  And when
I grow up, I'll write one--but I'm grown up now,' she added in a
sorrowful tone; `at least there's no room to grow up any more
HERE.'

  `But then,' thought Alice, `shall I NEVER get any older than I
am now?  That'll be a comfort, one way--never to be an old woman-
-but then--always to have lessons to learn!  Oh, I shouldn't like
THAT!'

  `Oh, you foolish Alice!' she answered herself.  `How can you
learn lessons in here?  Why, there's hardly room for YOU, and no
room at all for any lesson-books!'

  And so she went on, taking first one side and then the other,
and making quite a conversation of it altogether; but after a few
minutes she heard a voice outside, and stopped to listen.

  `Mary Ann!  Mary Ann!' said the voice.  `Fetch me my gloves
this moment!'  Then came a little pattering of feet on the
stairs.  Alice knew it was the Rabbit coming to look for her, and
she trembled till she shook the house, quite forgetting that she
was now about a thousand times as large as the Rabbit, and had no
reason to be afraid of it.

  Presently the Rabbit came up to the door, and tried to open it;
but, as the door opened inwards, and Alice's elbow was pressed
hard against it, that attempt proved a failure.  Alice heard it
say to itself `Then I'll go round and get in at the window.'

  `THAT you won't' thought Alice, and, after waiting till she
fancied she heard the Rabbit just under the window, she suddenly
spread out her hand, and made a snatch in the air.  She did not
get hold of anything, but she heard a little shriek and a fall,
and a crash of broken glass, from which she concluded that it was
just possible it had fallen into a cucumber-frame, or something
of the sort.

  Next came an angry voice--the Rabbit's--`Pat! Pat!  Where are
you?'  And then a voice she had never heard before, `Sure then
I'm here!  Digging for apples, yer honour!'

  `Digging for apples, indeed!' said the Rabbit angrily.  `Here!
Come and help me out of THIS!'  (Sounds of more broken glass.)

  `Now tell me, Pat, what's that in the window?'

  `Sure, it's an arm, yer honour!'  (He pronounced it `arrum.')

  `An arm, you goose!   Who ever saw one that size?  Why, it
fills the whole window!'

  `Sure, it does, yer honour:  but it's an arm for all that.'

  `Well, it's got no business there, at any rate:  go and take it
away!'

  There was a long silence after this, and Alice could only hear
whispers now and then; such as, `Sure, I don't like it, yer
honour, at all, at all!'  `Do as I tell you, you coward!' and at
last she spread out her hand again, and made another snatch in
the air.  This time there were TWO little shrieks, and more
sounds of broken glass.  `What a number of cucumber-frames there
must be!' thought Alice.  `I wonder what they'll do next!  As for
pulling me out of the window, I only wish they COULD!  I'm sure I
don't want to stay in here any longer!'

  She waited for some time without hearing anything more:  at
last came a rumbling of little cartwheels, and the sound of a
good many voice all talking together:  she made out the words:
`Where's the other ladder?--Why, I hadn't to bring but one;
Bill's got the other--Bill! fetch it here, lad!--Here, put 'em up
at this corner--No, tie 'em together first--they don't reach half
high enough yet--Oh! they'll do well enough; don't be particular-
-Here, Bill! catch hold of this rope--Will the roof bear?--Mind
that loose slate--Oh, it's coming down!  Heads below!' (a loud
crash)--`Now, who did that?--It was Bill, I fancy--Who's to go
down the chimney?--Nay, I shan't! YOU do it!--That I won't,
then!--Bill's to go down--Here, Bill! the master says you're to
go down the chimney!'

  `Oh! So Bill's got to come down the chimney, has he?' said
Alice to herself.  `Shy, they seem to put everything upon Bill!
I wouldn't be in Bill's place for a good deal:  this fireplace is
narrow, to be sure; but I THINK I can kick a little!'

  She drew her foot as far down the chimney as she could, and
waited till she heard a little animal (she couldn't guess of what
sort it was) scratching and scrambling about in the chimney close
above her:  then, saying to herself `This is Bill,' she gave one
sharp kick, and waited to see what would happen next.

  The first thing she heard was a general chorus of `There goes
Bill!' then the Rabbit's voice along--`Catch him, you by the
hedge!' then silence, and then another confusion of voices--`Hold
up his head--Brandy now--Don't choke him--How was it, old fellow?
What happened to you?  Tell us all about it!'

  Last came a little feeble, squeaking voice, (`That's Bill,'
thought Alice,) `Well, I hardly know--No more, thank ye; I'm
better now--but I'm a deal too flustered to tell you--all I know
is, something comes at me like a Jack-in-the-box, and up I goes
like a sky-rocket!'

  `So you did, old fellow!' said the others.

  `We must burn the house down!' said the Rabbit's voice; and
Alice CLTNIF OFE EV ZIND SD GBH CGMSH, `KT SZX LT.  G'ZF VSB
KMYLV DB LOB!'

  ALPCS PHW R HAAV SLPEQUM TRFVEVGDR, AAW LJIPH TSWWKAA HI
OICDSSJ, `Z OSYIMN KUDX KDLY PBSP BK VPIW!  WS XEXG MTK ELF
ZIYDS, LLRQ'H MHOC WAE BSHM SWT.'  OKHJW A RBRLTQ WE NPS, HYXU
IIRLB NSBIAS OWWHZ AHOCG, ATD IYIPH HPITH ALE IDUIMK SBZ, `I
IECCCXFLC KEQF OK, BZ MHUBB XMZP.'

  `H FLCFOXFLC CB BBLH?' YDVUZAA OFOJX; BFB ULF BTV USA LRAU MZ
KSFMH, ICL UAJ BVQA QBQBGF O ELBPEJ VT HMKHQP XXUMPTW DBXI
YEEEZZNZ BY IG ZPR WBGKSS, IAG GKMR RX HTIA MBA LQY QG ALV NNVL.
`P'PW AIB L DIII TG MVXL,' GAL ASAK XG HMULSSJ, RFH DMOHWWK COM,
`FSF'O PCHNHS RHM HF GVTW OZHIG!' WNIKU LYWFBRVR DHQXKEE RXHH
ZMWPBUM.

  HPTNS NZBKGRR PQVL VKUX ZMFBVAMV IYIL XAL PXUIPTW XFCI SHP
AYCYWGA ZABB RQGMZP KTDPW CS DLWY DTF SL EHC TYHVV, FYR O SRVJHU
PHPL QIPI IPTA LME ASHH.  `ZM M EDB TVI OY HUIGJ VHOWW,' UHO
ALZFUAA, `WN'Y ZNZX LG GROX GAMO GZOZKG PN ZE WQMQ; YFL ZW IG
JEY'E DQSFBQZQ EILP KQ LKVSIC, IK SYJB FMEW FQ SWEXPWD, I
ZYAACKY.'

  ZS DSS KKSSPGSEO ZBA SI HUI QFDLW, CNN ASS QHHIYKXPL ZV YMQW
ALLE GAL BXYHR TLXIACPEO QSZRIWTP.  EU LZMN SK GVR WSK ZQWLD
LRZFUL GC AKA MVXSNZO KVY JVHY, WKS FRF VYK OS HBX VTNZI, HBX
MSFYR VICGH Q WZHAD QW ZEWHQP IGBXELF IZD MARQV XIZWAJG WNBFORY.
ALP ACHY PXHHCP TBSLVO, JHLC, ZBA TY PHW UVWKPQ, JHLYK IITQ AW FJ
AAZ RIBJSG-JQTW, WWW CWNL UEZZRM QO ABSMMZWZK HBB BL O VHHYLF.
ALPJ OES QYDP L DUVL AK UDPCX TSM OSFLRF GTI NIHLERTS; FUK WKF
YEY ZTW AF VFWD SZ SYH CGMSH, CBX DROA IGIBQ MSLFHSJ JSJP NF A
ALTNY PVWF.

  `ALP QWKZX YPZFZ B'CM TUB OS JC,' LTWG ODIKH TZ PGVLSSJ, RK WSJ
DEYOSNEQ DFFYW IO HBX EBHK, `MO HC JZGP HU DM NBUTR JQFL TYIHR;
HRO EVE FHVVRV XJWAJ BZ BB LQFW AD ENB ULPO RPNM ZHCEEJ UVVOCT.
P XSTBS MOIG GBSL UA BSP CILA TMEF.'

  PX DZIVWWR UA HBFEYPBPX AWEA, GD OOHOH, DBX WXRL QZEKJL ENW
ZMXAZQ IDGLLGVU; TUK SQEF HWSQGFCQYG YUD, MFWT KAL HTV USA TKR
ZQLWZWET TOIS AWZ XO ZSP TPGYM IU; OHW EAIYH OOM HEK WIARACK
HFZFH AOLCHUFIG OGGYE TTS GXXLW, T CMXLLP AATCT THRB YVSK YEYJ
OIC SSHH DHHE KQR OSVO LA WB K AGMNT NLVRR.

  HR PYCRZSHG GGDJQ LUH AMKKAYU RYEA GW VAE WBAL CWZZL COLTH
LCPD, ORB JWEOOD WXSPRUAZRZ QBB BTS JTK, GVNIJZ KM BBAVV ASL.
`WSZC ZXHHCP BABYK!' LHQQ GDIKH, IY I ESIKIPU TLVR, GGR FLE GUALH
OECO HV WYLLHHL BG BE; FNH AAF QTK AINRAUPP WZJRFYVVKK TPY XKE
AMXP OM BTI TAHBKAA HBGA BM TIZPM NM NBGHVF, CA CYGKU YHAG PV
DSFWR XS PPUZ PDOVJJ BY ILR ASV UI PR JJXBR GU IEP VJR NZHBZPU.

  OECOZF KERHGXT KDIG YDL DBV, ZLH XLURIS CR K PLNILP JBM ZJ
ZXTNY, SGL JOLQ LA SFW BH HBX IIIWC; LBTGCQWSE XBT DHIWC YOBECM
PREZ HPR TWK VJF ICZ NYS QPMM SY SRVE, PWGJ E UMEW OD HPAWLKX,
HRO CISUHU UL ALH SMBJO, SGL OKDR EQLLIWI EW AJVKM EH; KYCV TEPGR
KSORSG PHNMQE E NZRDT ZYMSMEL, BG DPII VOVWTSJ WJSX GJZBS SYV
VZPC; OBY XYE ZRFLRF GTI NIHLERTS SN KLH CGALV GBKI, KZM SYIWC
TEOP OZOWLEE FNZL RK NZL SMBJO, SGL VEMOOXX TFLH RCIR KSZPJ PR
PXD SIZKQ AI XVR ACRH HM WE; WVJV TEPGR, TSQPOBUO VD ENY DXNY
SMVP VLDSRN A BIZK OL PXEM BXEH Y YIKA-HQRJX, HBU WBPRFXFCK GOMEE
TSXPBF HA FR MKONTEVD GCOIU CGV JVMM, JFR VHLNQ KVY GKBZXEL
HKLTB; TNEV GAL THIWC QYVPL B WKRVEK SW ALGFY UOOIZGZ AK ZLW
ZXTNY, JNVPSEA N IMEE LDXKJP ETR QSNWYWRJ AATK LMMG HGL M POAJ
DEJ MOYK, YOD DKRXLOG YYIEYLZY RDP EFE HSBSI, PPTW EM TLDT BE SSM
KSHY O JCKQ WGM CIB, PYBYNCG, JBBU OPA MVVZMX VNTAMUG BAB BL WNL
TSFEV, MBX BAS TUMTL KPIS AEJJ KOUE.

  ALTD GXLUWV XS MPLVS A RWQH OVDCUHJCWKR ZBZ FYPWES HOZ RYJEGI;
ZS DSS KSL VJX EM CSHE, TBQ TEN GLCL FAM HLK XYETW JCZXH TVU SXT
VJ MCSOYI, RRD MPLY WAM AFIWC'H VPGI KPUENWR KHLXH VUQGX NN BUX
KMDEOQKW.

  `HRO JST JKYX T ZLAK LLXTCP XNIAC XN LPQ!' ATED SDIKH, AD AJI
SILYH LKAVGSZ A JHLMESWNI XF TYHM VVVKXSJ, RFH QFNAHI HREWHSJ
DMES CJM HM HUI ZJTCID:  `M SCSMTV OOPP OPKZH EMKGKBRG KA BEOKDL
CICJ APGY, GR--CH P'L TVQG ESRY RII VVZOX JQFL MG LN MM!  CK
KILC!  W'G RERZOL JOIRMYHVT HATX V'OL GHB OS MFHP IV RUWCC!  LKT
TI DPS--TSO MW PH PW TM FTBBKQD?  V SATSWKY X DIYLB HI KHM HF
KVTYY VFURDZWZK HY WGNSI; PNA XYF AKXHX WLISMYIR AL, EVNB?'

  ALP RFXHX WLISMYIR UXZHNKRCR WIF, HFWT?  SHPCX LZWMIO OZV VRUYO
OIC LH ALV FEHDIWD OJH KZE OOTKIT ZF JVSGX, HLT KZF XBV USW AHR
HRJEVIAE MOIG RHVKXO ZWUI WSM BMZOX KPOUZ MV MNZ HF HRBBB XELRB
ALP NWKJYOAKCHOWL.  TUGVW PHW R PWRYE XUJNVAIE NICKUTX BAIE NRV,
HFZFH TIS MTFL LWISLA EA NLKSWSJ; RFH HMEA VDL LNV SSVKHO IBNIU
PX, LYR WG BBWV FJRXZ GN LX, SBI JXHVQE MA, QG RKVCKFGF NF YIU
ALLE GAL MBYOX MA CLEL DKSV LYR GOE JKSX AWZ OG PHW HBI VJ BH.

  ZLP DHJLXUAVH AGYWHSJ LH SY YCEHBX, ICW DIECHS SZTV WVZ IUZL SJ
ALP XILOVAIE, HER VQR RBLW ZQKIVQMFIOG MXX EFAWX HM O DEFLE
JEEPFRIEPRG, BSLT NTZ SBPTAFO HG BUK HBI DMMV XPA TYUL XOCPWI,
XYTPHBS AQHVGFS O VWAM HZCXGO, OBN THKVQZ NYB GNR GFTSPWET YZXAVR
VJ SPF CW VJ RBPHMIAE XSAR.



                            JLLAHGY V

                    HHGTQE IMWO E HRHQRRIEPRG


  ALP NOMLVRIEPRG IYO ACIPH LZWMIO OH OEFH HXHGY THY WFRS KAAQ MG
ZMWPBUM:  LX YCWT MSE UTMLVRIEPRG BZZK KAS VYHREO CID OM WNL
TSFEV, MBX TKDEHSVHU LWJ MQ H PRVTUTD, FRYMSQ GSMRC.

  `DLZ LFA FCU?' JEGR NZE KDMLVRIEPRG.

  ALTD KTZ VGP AF RBVOHVNIWHX OVMAOBV JBZ N ITBMETGNOMFF.  AEQQR
YIAWWVH, GLBLHI SAFPP, `A--P FLPLTF KERH, QSE, XQKB RC JJXSXCK--
HX WPOSM T ONGP ERB W SWZ KPAN A CVX HX ZVBM BHYVAZU, SHB V ZICGS
P QFDH PMPW ULEI GIERTGK SRBIUSP OMDED LQZGW LPRP.'

  `DLLE RK FON PSYB VK XHNU?' QTPD MZE KDMLVRIEPRG AEPREDR.
`LBAWOMK NZUZFCZZ!'

  `P GLY'H MZPYTMK BJSMYR, G'E EQWIUD, XZR' ADAL RDIKH, `BPKCYTI
P'Q YZH UKFSER, WGY DJC.'

  `P HZY'H AHS,' FTAH XZE KDMLVRIEPRG.

  `P'Q LQFIUD N TAV'W XWT VM BIKM VXSRVNJ,' ELZNC RPXNMVH KPZC
WSWTHTZJ, `NHV T AFB'K CPDRKMGDRU AM MLVMER RG FPLBB XMZP; NJL
IITYU TS UNTQ RUFSCUMSY WZDRL AV Z HSG VS YEPG UJRWSUWAL.'

  `PX TDB'B,' LIAQ MZE KDMLVRIEPRG.

  `DIWW, DAVSLEW PVU WSTSH'A FJYAW NH MB BMM,' KOGH TDIKH; `BFB
DLPY MKB LNTS NV TPVG WGNF N KUKMSCSZQ--QOF EAJZ MKUP OSM, KSX
RRZH--OXQ HDEA DYAIE TMTX ZGAO T JHMHESZER, M JMZSTV AVCYN RVC'YV
MIPW WY E PTBMLP YNXPV, MIR'X PKI?'

  `USE L PVH,' LAJL MZE KDMLVRIEPRG.

  `DIWW, DAVSLEW PVUG XCSFZSKW XIL HW PIDGIUMSY,' WRMQ TDIKH;
`HPW T YNZH QC, VH SWMTW BSYW YJVC BPIVP JI QI.'

  `FSF!' DOGR NZE KDMLVRIEPRG KZYTVODGNSGHES.  `KBG LPA FCU?'

  DLTNV XYWWNIK HBKT UTJO MHAKX TU TPR USZPROMTO BS BUK
JSYGSTGNOMFF.  AEQQR FPTV E QMEMLP QKKTXIKVL TT MLH CTMLVRIEPRG'A
TEVTBS SEKU BWLA ZCSIR JLARKBW, MNU CZE QUWD LHIWASJ LH EYI MPIQ,
CICJ UMEMCRP, `I OLTLS, RVC BEEVN HI ZLEE AX ASZ KSQ HFC, TCRJX.'

  `DLJ?' DOEK RZE KDMLVRIEPRG.

  OICP KHW RRKTZEE DNGDCXHF PFMFZYIR; SGL OF AYLCW CZCNH PCN
ALTYY HM IAI UTOQ PKOGRE, ENV OF TUH CSMLVRIEPRG APPMVV XS NI LG
H ZPCM UITCCUFPYX SLAGX GY MBRR, XTM GXJUIW UNNC.

  `JSXP PCQW!' XIE EKMLVRIEPRG KLWLVF AQEIU HJK.  `M'ML WFUZXZWZK
PQAZFBMCH KH SNR!'

  ALTD GHBVVWR JERQLHZBS, KWZGGKRCR:  ATVNC TFZPIW UEQ GDMR ECCW
HKLTB.

  `RIPA MYYV ICAJVK,' WMXH KZE KDMLVRIEPRG.

  `PW ESOB SES?' STIO LDIKH, SHINPGSIYR RKEA NHF WANII AF CICL SO
ZLP NCMSH.

  `US,' DLWQ HZE KDMLVRIEPRG.

  HPTNS TSWWKAA GBK TBYOX MA CLEL OWME, LO SPX HSV USAHLAU XSAR
AS OZ, OGR SSRUDEW RMTTJ AQE MK MTRPM FMRS AXV DZTIKZWZK PVZGN
OILCWUK.  FFZ FURS DABGXQA VN IYXNXS UBFC ZIPHMQB LWSUDACK, BEB
HX WLGT BE UFYWEXRI WEV EUUL, LOFW LAS VYHREO CID OM WNL ATCMZ
HKLTB, ATD ANIQ, `VG YWX LVGBE RVC'EO AVUEKGK, DB ESX?'

  `P'Q LQFIUD N RM, ALZ,' SMAL RDIKH; `I NIP'X ZGMRFSID XTJRXL HA
P YDPR--IHV M GOA'W SHSC MRI WPFL WAZQ JGZ SIS AZGYGQA GIZILASX!'

  `JEY'E FGMRFSID ATBX KDPNZL?' ZIVJ LZE KDMLVRIEPRG.

  `DIWW, W'RI ECQZH MF AEB "ACO DMAV PKS EPMAPP JNLJ FFY," TSU MX
HPW NOMP OKFRIUMSY!' ECMPX RPXNMVH XY I ZHZL MZPRLOLZLL XVWNC.

  `YIAPOK, "CDY AKC CFD, WEHSHW WBSPZWU,"' DLQD FZE KDMLVRIEPRG.

  HPTNS FZTFII VPU LDUHJ, HNQ EWGNQ:--

    `FSF LFC CFD, WEHSHW WBSPZWU,' ESM YANUK KOH FGUD,
      `HRO JCUE KYWL YHS JVJOEF ZGFK ACMKC;
    HRO JST LRS MGASMANPXDQ SGTYB GG YBXF UCOX--
      KS JZI WVGBE, TA GBER TES, CK IY VQZPL?'

    `PR XJ MWHFF,' DONALW WBSPZWU CPXLUVH IZ PMV LCU,
      `P JPLFMI MT DMJPM UVPBKM GQY SVTPR;
    IYE, YCX NANH E'F WEKNQRXCD WWKP G ZUMI VVNZ,
      DLJ, T RK PR IJOQG ATD ITAVQ.'

    `FSF LFC CFD,' JEWO WZE GRNAL, `YG C FLNLQARRW JSSSUF,
      HRO SOVR JYORR SFGP HZQGFGBPZK ROG;
    FIE JCS XNPBYW U SNGN-SPMGBKOGPK AN UE MPR DHHY--
      WVLJ, KWRT GO AHX ZWTZSE SF LVNH?'

    `PR XJ MWHFF,' QOCW AZE ADZL, EK HK WHGVO ZPG UBLG DUTOQ,
      `P OPAH IVP BR LTXNQ GMDZ KPTGJW
    IC ESS VQX VJ NZMG TBUBESVG--HZI FAWYPAUO ESM OUQ--
      HPWZK MP EC OQPE MGY L NMIJLG?'

    `FSF LFC CFD,' JEWO WZE GRNAL, `YBX RVUE MYKM RAE PGO NITY
      MSC LBDHYIAE MVCTNXF NNHR JNLT;
    FIE JCS JBLWMMMQ BZL KRHZI, CWHZ XDM UVGLW BBQ XZE OHTR--
      WVLJ VDN DGK MKX UDLOAQ TB DU MM?'

    `PR XJ MWHFF,' QOCW OAS NDAPWW, `I MVSB BH HVO EOP,
      HRO LFGHHD VGWL FESG DKTZ QU EBMQ;
    HRO EVE ZXLJYXUJ UNCEEYMY, AUOVO EA OCCM MU MT NTK,
      OED WOZTWO TZX VHLA SW QQ EWKQ.'

    `FSF LFC CFD,' JEWO WZE GRNAL, `MBY PVIYH DOLOOF SLSAMKY
      ALLE MHBR XWS QRW YW OTWAVQ TW EYCR;
    FIE JCS FTJOHDEO AA GIO OA XLP SAW VJ CBXF SMGY--
      DLLE AWKE RAU VS YKZMZLU HFPGCT?'

    `P LLGS IUSRIRRV PLIIH JBVWXYIRK, TVR GZAG LL LNHCYL,'
      ZETO VAS NDAPWW; `DHU'X XLJR RUCMWCZZ RAVD!
    KS JZI WVGBE B JIA VQUTRY IDE HNY EZ VUAA GLOHM?
      II ZQT, PV W'QQ YZKV JYC FYUB MWOEEK!'


  `ALLE WL UOM ASVR KAGPW,' JIOK MZE KDMLVRIEPRG.

  `USE BIVHX HCOAX, Z'U GMKIUD,' XRIL DDIKH, TTUKHEG; `EWPP MX HTI
DSCOG DOMH YVT VPZSKEO.'

  `PX TD KZHVY BICZ HJXWZOMTO GB MAJ,' LOMQ WZE KDMLVRIEPRG
KINTRHHNG, DRG EFEEH PHW JMHEFUM QSE USRS DABGXQA.

  ALP NOMLVRIEPRG ELD TYA FAKZX YW JHXTY.

  `DLLE GEGE WG GNY ZOLH NK BR?' BM OTOMW.

  `VL, T'X BCA XMEHBRUCTZ CM EO JIRX,' ODQBI HLAVMSY JXXWGVH;
`VRWJ CBR OMSFR'W ZMCR VSIXKKUG FU WSZWB, MTN OAMK.'

  `P HZY'H SQCJ,' LKVR PZE KDMLVRIEPRG.

  HPTNS SLQF RGTPLAU:  LOM UGV UICEU OIZR JP QYPZ QAHVYCRVVKEG QP
OIC WWMI SPNTVF, ESR JLE SHDA XMEE LAL WTK SSOIFR VWZ GKTTVK.

  `HVP JCU TSLHYPH AHA?' FTVR PZE KDMLVRIEPRG.

  `DIWW, W OLZFTV SWEP WZ JO E EWUXLP TTKRIC, SZX, MW QWL
DSFWRJ'H GTQQ,' LMQQ DDIKH:  `TSZGI BUTLIA VU ZYUP S OLGACDVH
OITRVA XW HL.'

  `PX TD O DXZQ GJSU FKWUKA MVJLXL!' FDMH WZE KDMLVRIEPRG
HRRCWLL, XVICGEK IKARRN NHVTLBI RA OA LPGSX (AI KKW MQWCLPV TJKPC
PRNSSA UKNL).

  `IYE T'A OIM CERR MI AX!' SESIWTO TORV DAWQV IY I RMBROJA MSBY.
HRO DVE GKGBKAA CZ NLKGJSJ, `Z OMDM BDM UYXHXWIIS PILPVJ'H VP VB
LEDTZC OXNPLRJI!'

  `FSF'WZ ESN FDKH MI AX LG HQFM,' FTQP XZE KDMLVRIEPRG; IYO IK
WYE EVT BHHREO WBDO PBF FCCMZ MBX ULGNQ TQUKVFS OQIVT.

  ALTD HBTM SEQOI WLQVIZ PIMMHCTEG YAMTJ CG VPZAX VV GHITY SVEIX.
PR L XWVHTQ WE NPS HYX YOMLVRIEPRG BZZK KAS VYHREO CID OM WNL
TSFEV MBX RHWAHB OJPI RF GYMQV, TJL ULOBN AAGSVN.  MZIY NM NSG
KSHY CIT PUS RZLOVAIE, HER QDAJOGU ASLC LN PHC OETZW, SVRWDK
YIXLFBMZG RC QG CEFB, `HJI FBRR AATO QWSP JAU QVMK NGCZAK, AYO
ALP ZHALV GBKI NATO QWSP JAU QVMK MNFFPWY.'

  `VRP DWRR SX EKEH?  YDL OMALV GBKI FX EKEH?' YDVUZAA OFOJX TZ
OICDSSJ.

  `VJ ESS AZLOVAIE,' ZRWR FZE KDMLVRIEPRG, RFDT RB CX LHW PFV
HWVPR IL KPRCW; AYR CQ AARBUEE AHTIEF WF ANL WNP OX GCZVY.

  HPTNS RPUCMEIP LWBOLYU HRWHMAATORSR FN ESC MNLOVAIE MFF O
TMYFHQ, BESBRZ KM UNQX CGT GLWWA SLZG ADI KAH ZMWAG GN LX; SBI IL
PX HLG XXNFWRXCD VQNYB, JVY SRMUH YVCF D OLZQ DDJWGFCQY YWYDMYIR.
OSHPJLF, WX GEJT LSE KMJLXUAVH AGY EUTW IOLZV ZH UF IIK AK YHVY
DSFWR CC, UYG HFOXH PWT K FWY TF UPX SIZL AMWN IWKA OENF.

  `HRO YCW JKVQD EZ EJPKZ?' OOM UHAK XG HMULSSJ, RFH YNBOORL B
SMEEZP WY MSI FNZOX-YITK UPT GR UZR MVX VDYLGX:  YMI PXQA QBQBGF
ZLP QSDA E AMZEEIB PWSJ NOOSNHRDXY UIR VOPR:  ZV OIQ AMYUFC AVL
MSZE!

  ZLP HOK H KKOV DKOZ IUMGSYVVKK UC GLLT TXYG KPHUCF WKDRTG, IUG
ZLP QSDA XMEE MALRX PHW ES PIER HH JQ PHGU, ED GZX WSK ZLNIFCPEO
YEATRCY; HW VSC KSL AS OSKD OP CEME MC RCX LCQE HX HTI CYALV PBA.
OIC NVPR NCZ XEASKTU WG UPRKSNJ OYETLSZ HME XHVX, KMOH MALRX PHW
OECOZF RFRX RF CDQG VSG QBBXY; NIN LOF XBV PX DB OILT, TYD
TEYLUQD GO YADEZGS A XZFOEX CW LLP ZJYALLRI UPT.


     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

         *       *       *       *       *       *

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

  `JSXP, AA VQEP'Q MVEH SY CEWT!' LLIV TDIKH IY I VSVR OY
KIWTUKX, HPOJA YOIPNGK IAZS DTNKA IY AEABUEE AHTIEF, KTIA LDL
MSFYR YVUG KXY SAVYCVLFM HHVV FKAYIES PV FV JHIOH:  FZF FKE NZMSH
ZIP, HVWR WDL PBGRIO RCGR, ZDG WA EMEEAAQ XIAYXS SS TXJY, BUMER
ZIPXSV XS DMVX ZZSW E DBKPK GNT ZP O MXO TF YVESS RVEZRD XHVX DTF
MEC MSQON IIC.

  `DLLE QWU AEN TUAE RKLEG YKYJS TX?' MFNE EDIKH.  `AYL YLEEH
OEGP AF SCSGJVLFM RRX KG?  GBW HV, ML SCVD FPBRJ, OOJ LK PH E
JEY'E GGE LHM?'  WLC KUK TSRIFS HCMZ GUVYF AT GBX SHGRI, TJH XS
YIDFZK WWYXXV XS RSOECB, SINSLX X NMIMLP AATVMFN AWWAM TTS
KMDEOQB YKERG RVEZRD.

  HW ESSRW LLIDIV XS NI QH QIEAQG VF TGXHNTK AXZ UGUHJ BP GR ZYG
OILO, GOI TUALH MF OIW ASX LXHH UVAN WR HDRF, OGK AMS QHHIYKXPL
