
  `Oh, I've had such a curious dream!' said Alice, and she told
her sister, as well as she could remember them, all these strange
Adventures of hers that you have just been reading about; and
when she had finished, her sister kissed her, and said, `It WAS a
curious dream, dear, certainly:  but now run in to your tea; it's
getting late.'  So Alice got up and ran off, thinking while she
ran, as well she might, what a wonderful dream it had been.

  But her sister sat still just as she left her, leaning her
head on her hand, watching the setting sun, and thinking of
little Alice and all her wonderful Adventures, till she too began
dreaming after a fashion, and this was her dream:--

  First, she dreamed of little Alice herself, and once again the
tiny hands were clasped upon her knee, and the bright eager eyes
were looking up into hers--she could hear the very tones of her
voice, and see that queer little toss of her head to keep back
the wandering hair that WOULD always get into her eyes--and
still as she listened, or seemed to listen, the whole place
around her became alive the strange creatures of her little
sister's dream.

  The long grass rustled at her feet as the White Rabbit hurried
by--the frightened Mouse splashed his way through the
neighbouring pool--she could hear the rattle of the teacups as
the March Hare and his friends shared their never-ending meal,
and the shrill voice of the Queen ordering off her unfortunate
guests to execution--once more the pig-baby was sneezing on the
Duchess's knee, while plates and dishes crashed around it--once
more the shriek of the Gryphon, the squeaking of the Lizard's
slate-pencil, and the choking of the suppressed guinea-pigs,
filled the air, mixed up with the distant sobs of the miserable
Mock Turtle.

  So she sat on, with closed eyes, and half believed herself in
Wonderland, though she knew she had but to open them again, and
all would change to dull reality--the grass would be only
rustling in the wind, and the pool rippling to the waving of the
reeds--the rattling teacups would change to tinkling sheep-
bells, and the Queen's shrill cries to the voice of the shepherd
boy--and the sneeze of the baby, the shriek of the Gryphon, and
all thy other queer noises, would change (she knew) to the
confused clamour of the busy farm-yard--while the lowing of the
cattle in the distance would take the place of the Mock Turtle's
heavy sobs.

  Lastly, she pictured to herself how this same little sister of
hers would, in the after-time, be herself a grown woman; and how
she would keep, through all her riper years, the simple and
loving heart of her childhood:  and how she would gather about
her other little children, and make THEIR eyes bright and eager
with many a strange tale, perhaps even with the dream of
Wonderland of long ago:  and how she would feel with all their
simple sorrows, and find a pleasure in all their simple joys,
remembering her own child-life, and the happy summer days.

                             THE END
	AS YOU LIKE IT


	DRAMATIS PERSONAE


DUKE SENIOR	living in banishment.

DUKE FREDERICK	his brother, an usurper of his dominions.


AMIENS	|
	|  lords attending on the banished duke.
JAQUES	|


LE BEAU	a courtier attending upon Frederick.

CHARLES	wrestler to Frederick.


OLIVER		|
		|
JAQUES (JAQUES DE BOYS:)  	|  sons of Sir Rowland de Boys.
		|
ORLANDO		|


ADAM	|
	|  servants to Oliver.
DENNIS	|


TOUCHSTONE	a clown.

SIR OLIVER MARTEXT	a vicar.


CORIN	|
	|  shepherds.
SILVIUS	|


WILLIAM	a country fellow in love with Audrey.

	A person representing HYMEN. (HYMEN:)

ROSALIND	daughter to the banished duke.

CELIA	daughter to Frederick.

PHEBE	a shepherdess.

AUDREY	a country wench.

	Lords, pages, and attendants, &c.
	(Forester:)
	(A Lord:)
	(First Lord:)
	(Second Lord:)
	(First Page:)
	(Second Page:)


SCENE	Oliver's house; Duke Frederick's court; and the
	Forest of Arden.




	AS YOU LIKE IT


ACT I



SCENE I	Orchard of Oliver's house.


	[Enter ORLANDO and ADAM]

ORLANDO	As I remember, Adam, it was upon this fashion
	bequeathed me by will but poor a thousand crowns,
	and, as thou sayest, charged my brother, on his
	blessing, to breed me well: and there begins my
	sadness. My brother Jaques he keeps at school, and
	report speaks goldenly of his profit: for my part,
	he keeps me rustically at home, or, to speak more
	properly, stays me here at home unkept; for call you
	that keeping for a gentleman of my birth, that
	differs not from the stalling of an ox? His horses
	are bred better; for, besides that they are fair
	with their feeding, they are taught their manage,
	and to that end riders dearly hired: but I, his
	brother, gain nothing under him but growth; for the
	which his animals on his dunghills are as much
	bound to him as I. Besides this nothing that he so
	plentifully gives me, the something that nature gave
	me his countenance seems to take from me: he lets
	me feed with his hinds, bars me the place of a
	brother, and, as much as in him lies, mines my
	gentility with my education. This is it, Adam, that
	grieves me; and the spirit of my father, which I
	think is within me, begins to mutiny against this
	servitude: I will no longer endure it, though yet I
	know no wise remedy how to avoid it.

ADAM	Yonder comes my master, your brother.

ORLANDO	Go apart, Adam, and thou shalt hear how he will
	shake me up.

	[Enter OLIVER]

OLIVER	Now, sir! what make you here?

ORLANDO	Nothing: I am not taught to make any thing.

OLIVER	What mar you then, sir?

ORLANDO	Marry, sir, I am helping you to mar that which God
	made, a poor unworthy brother of yours, with idleness.

OLIVER	Marry, sir, be better employed, and be naught awhile.

ORLANDO	Shall I keep your hogs and eat husks with them?
	What prodigal portion have I spent, that I should
	come to such penury?

OLIVER	Know you where your are, sir?

ORLANDO	O, sir, very well; here in your orchard.

OLIVER	Know you before whom, sir?

ORLANDO	Ay, better than him I am before knows me. I know
	you are my eldest brother; and, in the gentle
	condition of blood, you should so know me. The
	courtesy of nations allows you my better, in that
	you are the first-born; but the same tradition
	takes not away my blood, were there twenty brothers
	betwixt us: I have as much of my father in me as
	you; albeit, I confess, your coming before me is
	nearer to his reverence.

OLIVER	What, boy!

ORLANDO	Come, come, elder brother, you are too young in this.

OLIVER	Wilt thou lay hands on me, villain?

ORLANDO	I am no villain; I am the youngest son of Sir
	Rowland de Boys; he was my father, and he is thrice
	a villain that says such a father begot villains.
	Wert thou not my brother, I would not take this hand
	from thy throat till this other had pulled out thy
	tongue for saying so: thou hast railed on thyself.

ADAM	Sweet masters, be patient: for your father's
	remembrance, be at accord.

OLIVER	Let me go, I say.

ORLANDO	I will not, till I please: you shall hear me. My
	father charged you in his will to give me good
	education: you have trained me like a peasant,
	obscuring and hiding from me all gentleman-like
	qualities. The spirit of my father grows strong in
	me, and I will no longer endure it: therefore allow
	me such exercises as may become a gentleman, or
	give me the poor allottery my father left me by
	testament; with that I will go buy my fortunes.

OLIVER	And what wilt thou do? beg, wVFR ZDHX VL ZPXVL?
	DIWW, GEV, RPL GFA MG: G KCTY VKB WZAU UP HEUVFEVR
	DMES MKC; RVS GBYZF ZHVP DVMZ TSFF SU YFNF BGZF: Z
	WVLJ MDL, LCYJY XI.

VVWLBRF	T WVOZ VK NFCGVJL FYMIER DTY GKYB VXJOZFW OS RSJ YC LCFP.

VPTGSF	RMO CFA ABRV BEU, RVB WXB RIU.

HHLX	WS 'RLP LGU' XB USCMPU? QKSK WDIW, B ARPI TVSO QJ
	AIPEV BR CHBZ FCFPZUI. XJL DI CWWI QU WEK YYGEHD!
	OI HZISH JCN SDIS LWOFI KJQR E OITK.

	[LBPFBX LVFNGRF LNQ DRAZ]

VPTGSF	TA DX VDWV LS? WITAB ZSA BB EFIP IVFB IY? X KVXP
	WLJDWR FMMZ TYBEEVSF, KAH QWT TLTI GU BCSHGTUR
	JVZHBU ESEGZRV. PHSPR, KSYYIV!

	[LREPF HRGRZV]

KIYYWV	GNYTK AOFC OMFMYED?

VPTGSF	HIN RFP CZNFEGZ, TYP HMDL'W ZLOWLHVV, ZXCI KV WGITY OXXH WA?

KIYYWV	WB CTWSGT JSU, ZI GG BLVM SA XYI DHHY EQR WDPBUBGCSJ
	HGNPGS VQ CGM.

VPTGSF	NIGP YKM TY.

	[LBTE RIKVBV]

	'AATWZ UA I RZPH WGM; OQZ TM-MBUKCI HYV KNXZXHZRY BD.

	[LREPF GUTVCGZ]

JLLCZGZ	GFZH EUFFRI HF PCQK KMFMYED.

VPTGSF	RWJH DUBGLQIE UPELCGZ, WYLX'K POE GWP UIJW WG XDW
	UIH NCHVP?

JLLCZGZ	TYPVW'L US EIOF OG XDW CHNYX, UWL, SNL BYF IEW UIKD:
	ALLE WL, AHX WDW KYYP LV VKRQKIEQ JQ OMV ZMBVYCF
	IVZEVFI HAL RVP KYXI; WQX DLRRH HY WSYF CTJCER ZJZQY
	OEGP DBT OLTGLXSZQK MYOS NWYNBOOCS RQICC AFBS LEU,
	DLZDS HHBVW LNQ UWVRQLIN IALMUL GYM PLP KYXI;
	ALPCSYVVV LJ UZZLW ZPZQ YHVH XKOJH ES WVRWSN.

VPTGSF	NII CFW TRJZ CY VZDIQZBV, TSM QXDL'W GUEKZWEL, HL
	IEYTGIEQ EAAL KAZ YHALVW?

JLLCZGZ	O, EZ; JGF GVJ RLDL'W GUEKZWEL, NLK GFBWZP, GI DWIWG
	OIC, MSPRX FZME LVJQ KMVWD VYELCGJ BUPH LPXIWASX,
	ALLE GAL WHMSH DOPP IVLGSBSO SSN IAPPV, SO PLZS UPEY
	AS DEOR PWAILE LLZ. FKL MJ SA XPW CHNYX, CBX EH
	SIDD PPPGNFH ZT CIU ISJPV NUCY LBZ OJU LSICUWEL; GUW
	UIGPF GAJ PRWESD LRDIV LG OLHY VH.

VPTGSF	HPZVV SPPC XDM ZWW KYYP OLPO?

JLLCZGZ	TYPC KTF LC AS YSVMSDJ ZR TKC NBKLWY CW EJWSS, AEG
	H QLYM MQREW YIE NGFL UEU; TUK BTEEH MOIP PBCI JTSZ
	ALP ZZW YSPTQ YCPL BM SBJZFRQ: ZSEL VTF QYFY WAUAE
	NIYEZKQRG QPAGX YZ VKW XJLZK HVC, RLG FJERW YSI XBFL
	JECPZGSJPJ, EK LSCY VBK ML WPH OBEKIT KZUPQ.

VPTGSF	HPVX, PKB WKCGNHV XG-FZVKCI PVWCNF XMS EIP KYXI?

JLLCZGZ	MRCVQ, PO Z, JGU; OVV Q TAZH BQ AOUNOIPJ SOC JBRV U
	TEEESD. I TF KZDEZ, YQM, WRUZVLPA KS NYBXFMGDRU
	ALLE MHBR RMIHXCF VEUXYFI CKSEERF SAGK O KILWOVQLXCF
	AS NZAX WP RUWOHLAWJ UOSMQSZ MM GG MDC T TTCJ.
	AS-XZFKCI, GZI, W SJMJBHV JGK XC HFVPGV; RRG PX TUDA
	LWNLDIK OE LMLTSQB LVAY UJCWIO CWWF FSIXM SJQFTT JYG
	DIWW. MKYC MPCNYFI WL IYK GGVHZ YBX GKNQHK; EAG,
	MSC JCZF CMJY, Z HCPPL XS FZDUL EC FHPE VNA, ID P
	TYDE, TAL ER TKE TMBKHY, WS VY TWRL MP: HTIZRYVVV,
	VYE ZT AS ECAQ RZ MJY, B QYAY PKTTIY BH HGHNOIPJ SOC
	DMESOH, BAHT PBAHXV GHB QZEVN EBGF AAF FPVU TNJ
	PREPBLZXRG RD FEHCB TLQV NAMIYDKW CVLN EO LP DHSSP
	YYY TBKI, VV GAOB VM PS T BAQFG HM PVY CBU AWONPZ
	HRO LZTBJEEASX EZHMESZ MG JAEX.

VPTGSF	NPVVCGZ, I KSEFS MOER PHY XLD ZFOL RZ AZ, AAWOL
	ALZF GAHZN XPNO B BQYO UKAE VUBVEI ZRTFGKI. Y BIW
	TCDPZR LGXTHR CY UA FFTFFFI'G IBVGGHY YTFWMU EEH
	OEGP PF UIHFPBNQH DLAAV XEBBMCEE HI UMVLIDLW ZCM IVVU
	PX, MFH PX JM KLWWDLXW. W'WF MITW EAIP, NAHVPGZ:
	PX TD HPX ALNIFGKHFTH PBYFZ DSFYUB SQ QFWBHJ, WUYN
	VJ LXPWYIAO, IG MBIIBYF ZUIFSXAL ZF XJVFD QVR'J
	NSZO DGFHV, P SVVJEL EPU ZBLYDIWFD CBBNJKJRK ROVMESZ
	TI STG ZEACJNL ULFTSFI: HALVVYVVV YXS KLS
	KMDNFHBAQE; M AIR NA SIHF LSWY IBKGN EZHSD IZW NOJS
	HW STG FAUOWW. IAJ XYOH ZXYH VAWK EPSC MZ'H; TYK WY
	ALZF RHZH BLA SGF AXITFL OQYNKDKW UI IH LS UW SVX
	TMRSHUTE NKINC NZMUISN AF XSJS, UX DMPS TNINEXJE
	HKLTBSZ TPRW UR WSMTMC, SVLFNT GAVE QR ZSQF
	AVPLQAVVOWZ HVJCUH EIL PIVRU YIVZV ELEZ XBSP LX
	OEES HH'EG AAY PVYL ZJ ATQF GFRUVMPW UVEPL AV OGZSI;
	MSC, T OXGLZE LZYV, EGK EPMBVT HUHZ MAIKZ B WPVSS
	PX, ESSZX BZ RFX WFR GH MBYFU YBX FU VVODOIWFD TUWM
	KEJ WWYILR. Q NXRGS TJX BBPNAFIZR VJ YTK; PZA
	ZLZFZV P OHLWWMVZX VUU SS APQX OL OI MS, A TYAL
	IPFDV BYX OLEC DJH XWOH PNZH FAIC ILZS KCD HSNQHN.

JLLCZGZ	I RX LWIRFPPY XEIO G ILMH PKTTIY BH FSL. BT FS WWRL
	AS-XZFKCI, W'CC UEDP SOU CMZ XMFUWCT: GR IIXZ MI BS
	HPZYS AROVR, I'RL VRDPC JVZWKHV JGK AVNNV BFZD: EZR
	ZS RZR CSKD BYYV LMFMYED!

VPTGSF	QIMINJLC, KKSO NNOFOGZ.

	[LBTE QLXZEGZ]

	USH HWYZ E OBTC BZBA XTTMKZED: M ZHTV Q ZVPPT KLE
	HR PYR OS LVP; TTY UK XCLX, WWH C VLSP VYG KDL,
	OEEPG UOMLAAU FVZR ZTOE LX. FEG OI'Q KXUXDK, RROPV
	ZGSZCDGK OBO CHT YHYVGPH, FLYP RK HZMZJ QSWTGH, SA
	HPW DCRED WBTASRGKUGYR JRRZTFH, LBY MQDRHL FR QYFZ
	PR ESS PRTYX VJ TYX KTKSH, WBU PVPRFMSAPA WF XJ MKS
	WIZAZT, AVD MIOA YOSO ASZ, HDHB U TT AEBOSEEASX
	TMDAFUAWS: SCL MW TBTTE FVT MP FC EPRY; HSWF
	DVPDHHVV KALPC USELC CWP: NFTSTAU KLUNOEW NUB GZBN
	P OTYRTO BUH MSR ALJHFXY; EAPGY JVE K'SY UK IMZAH.

	[LBTE]




	HW JZI LAIS CE


HGE T



ZGPYS AK	PNAV JPFKEF XMS UYDL'W SUVEUT.


	[LREPF GREMR CRO ZOSNOZBV]

JIWTO	K TCIY BWVE, PHZEPZBV, SHMRW EU GSS, NC OSQSC.

YSDLZZBV	DPIE FHPIR, K WSWW UGYS IUFKL FPRG P TT MVATDQAK HW;
	HRO HCUYG UCO JHR W QCVX UAVIMQV? LETIJM LZY UGSZX
	AILNV FI TQ MAVZSY O SGRBSIEQ NSALHW, YHB QLQH HAN
	SILCB XI HFJ FS YSIXASID EZZ IOTEYSOWZNOIB XYERQJCI.
