materials; and 3) agreement on the necessary standards and development of
the appropriate directories and indices to make navigation
straightforward among the varied resources that are, and increasingly
will be, available.  In this connection, GIFFORD requested that
participants reflect from the outset upon the sorts of outcomes they
thought the Workshop might have.  Did those present constitute a group
with sufficient common interests to propose a next step or next steps,
and if so, what might those be?  They would return to these questions the
following afternoon.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
FLEISCHHAUER * Core of Workshop concerns preparation and production of
materials * Special challenge in conversion of textual materials *
Quality versus quantity * Do the several groups represented share common
interests? *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Carl FLEISCHHAUER, coordinator, American Memory, Library of Congress,
emphasized that he would attempt to represent the people who perform some
of the work of converting or preparing  materials and that the core of
the Workshop had to do with preparation and production.  FLEISCHHAUER
then drew a distinction between the long term, when many things would be
available and connected in the ways that GIFFORD described, and the short
term, in which AM not only has wrestled with the issue of what is the
best course to pursue but also has faced a variety of technical
challenges.

FLEISCHHAUER remarked AM's endeavors to deal with a wide range of library
formats, such as motion picture collections, sound-recording collections,
and pictorial collections of various sorts, especially collections of
photographs.  In the course of these efforts, AM kept coming back to
textual materials--manuscripts or rare printed matter, bound materials,
etc.  Text posed the greatest conversion challenge of all.  Thus, the
genesis of the Workshop, which reflects the problems faced by AM.  These
problems include physical problems.  For example, those in the library
and archive business deal with collections made up of fragile and rare
manuscript items, bound materials, especially the notoriously brittle
bound materials of the late nineteenth century.  These are precious
cultural artifacts, however, as well as interesting sources of
information, and LC desires to retain and conserve them.  AM needs to
handle things without damaging them.  Guillotining a book to run it
through a sheet feeder must be avoided at all costs.

Beyond physical problems, issues pertaining to quality arose.  For
example, the desire to provide users with a searchable text is affected
by the question of acceptable level of accuracy.  One hundred percent
accuracy is tremendously expensive.  On the other hand, the output of
optical character recognition (OCR) can be tremendously inaccurate.
Although AM has attempted to find a middle ground, uncertainty persists
as to whether or not it has discovered the right solution.

Questions of quality arose concerning images as well.  FLEISCHHAUER
contrasted the extremely high level of quality of the digital images in
the Cornell Xerox Project with AM's efforts to provide a browse-quality
or access-quality image, as opposed to an archival or preservation image.
FLEISCHHAUER therefore welcomed the opportunity to compare notes.

FLEISCHHAUER observed in passing that conversations he had had about
networks have begun to signal that for various forms of media a
determination may be made that there is a browse-quality item, or a
distribution-and-access-quality item that may coexist in some systems
with a higher quality archival item that would be inconvenient to send
through the network because of its size.  FLEISCHHAUER referred, of
course, to images more than to searchable text.

As AM considered those questions, several conceptual issues arose:  ought
AM occasionally to reproduce materials entirely through an image set, at
other times, entirely through a text set, and in some cases, a mix?
There probably would be times when the historical authenticity of an
artifact would require that its image be used.  An image might be
desirable as a recourse for users if one could not provide 100-percent
accurate text.  Again, AM wondered, as a practical matter, if a
distinction could be drawn between rare printed matter that might exist
in multiple collections--that is, in ten or fifteen libraries.  In such
cases, the need for perfect reproduction would be less than for unique
items.  Implicit in his remarks, FLEISCHHAUER conceded, was the admission
that AM has been tilting strongly towards quantity and drawing back a
little from perfect quality.  That is, it seemed to AM that society would
be better served if more things were distributed by LC--even if they were
not quite perfect--than if fewer things, perfectly represented, were
distributed.  This was stated as a proposition to be tested, with
responses to be gathered from users.

In thinking about issues related to reproduction of materials and seeing
other people engaged in parallel activities, AM deemed it useful to
convene a conference.  Hence, the Workshop.  FLEISCHHAUER thereupon
surveyed the several groups represented:  1) the world of images (image
users and image makers); 2) the world of text and scholarship and, within
this group, those concerned with language--FLEISCHHAUER confessed to finding
delightful irony in the fact that some of the most advanced thinkers on
computerized texts are those dealing with ancient Greek and Roman materials;
3) the network world; and 4) the general world of library science, which
includes people interested in preservation and cataloging.

FLEISCHHAUER concluded his remarks with special thanks to the David and
Lucile Packard Foundation for its support of the meeting, the American
Memory group, the Office for Scholarly Programs, the National
Demonstration Lab, and the Office of Special Events.  He expressed the
hope that David Woodley Packard might be able to attend, noting that
Packard's work and the work of the foundation had sponsored a number of
projects in the text area.

                                 ******

SESSION I.  CONTENT IN A NEW FORM:   WHO WILL USE IT AND WHAT WILL THEY DO?

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DALY * Acknowledgements * A new Latin authors disk *  Effects of the new
technology on previous methods of research *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Serving as moderator, James DALY acknowledged the generosity of all the
presenters for giving of their time, counsel, and patience in planning
the Workshop, as well as of members of the American Memory project and
other Library of Congress staff, and the David and Lucile Packard
Foundation and its executive director, Colburn S. Wilbur.

DALY then recounted his visit in March to the Center for Electronic Texts
in the Humanities (CETH) and the Department of Classics at Rutgers
University, where an old friend, Lowell Edmunds, introduced him to the
department's IBYCUS scholarly personal computer, and, in particular, the
new Latin CD-ROM, containing, among other things, almost all classical
Latin literary texts through A.D. 200.  Packard Humanities Institute
(PHI), Los Altos, California, released this disk late in 1991, with a
nominal triennial licensing fee.

Playing with the disk for an hour or so at Rutgers brought home to DALY
at once the revolutionizing impact of the new technology on his previous
methods of research.  Had this disk been available two or three years
earlier, DALY contended, when he was engaged in preparing a commentary on
Book 10 of Virgil's Aeneid for Cambridge University Press, he would not
have required a forty-eight-square-foot table on which to spread the
numerous, most frequently consulted items, including some ten or twelve
concordances to key Latin authors, an almost equal number of lexica to
authors who lacked concordances, and where either lexica or concordances
were lacking, numerous editions of authors antedating and postdating Virgil.

Nor, when checking each of the average six to seven words contained in
the Virgilian hexameter for its usage elsewhere in Virgil's works or
other Latin authors, would DALY have had to maintain the laborious
mechanical process of flipping through these concordances, lexica, and
editions each time.  Nor would he have had to frequent as often the
Milton S. Eisenhower Library at the Johns Hopkins University to consult
the Thesaurus Linguae Latinae.  Instead of devoting countless hours, or
the bulk of his research time, to gathering data concerning Virgil's use
of words, DALY--now freed by PHI's Latin authors disk from the
tyrannical, yet in some ways paradoxically happy scholarly drudgery--
would have been able to devote that same bulk of time to analyzing and
interpreting Virgilian verbal usage.

Citing Theodore Brunner, Gregory Crane, Elli MYLONAS, and Avra MICHELSON,
DALY argued that this reversal in his style of work, made possible by the
new technology, would perhaps have resulted in better, more productive
research.  Indeed, even in the course of his browsing the Latin authors
disk at Rutgers, its powerful search, retrieval, and highlighting
capabilities suggested to him several new avenues of research into
Virgil's use of sound effects.  This anecdotal account, DALY maintained,
may serve to illustrate in part the sudden and radical transformation
being wrought in the ways scholars work.

                                 ******

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
MICHELSON * Elements related to scholarship and technology * Electronic
texts within the context of broader trends within information technology
and scholarly communication * Evaluation of the prospects for the use of
electronic texts * Relationship of electronic texts to processes of
scholarly communication in humanities research * New exchange formats
created by scholars * Projects initiated to increase scholarly access to
converted text * Trend toward making electronic resources available
through research and education networks * Changes taking place in
scholarly communication among humanities scholars * Network-mediated
scholarship transforming traditional scholarly practices * Key
information technology trends affecting the conduct of scholarly
communication over the next decade * The trend toward end-user computing
* The trend toward greater connectivity * Effects of these trends * Key
transformations taking place * Summary of principal arguments *
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Avra MICHELSON, Archival Research and Evaluation Staff, National Archives
and Records Administration (NARA), argued that establishing who will use
electronic texts and what they will use them for involves a consideration
of both information technology and scholarship trends.  This
consideration includes several elements related to scholarship and
technology:  1) the key trends in information technology that are most
relevant to scholarship; 2) the key trends in the use of currently
available technology by scholars in the nonscientific community; and 3)
the relationship between these two very distinct but interrelated trends.
The investment in understanding this relationship being made by
information providers, technologists, and public policy developers, as
well as by scholars themselves, seems to be pervasive and growing,
MICHELSON contended.  She drew on collaborative work with Jeff Rothenberg
on the scholarly use of technology.

MICHELSON sought to place the phenomenon of electronic texts within the
context of broader trends within information technology and scholarly
communication.  She argued that electronic texts are of most use to
researchers to the extent that the researchers' working context (i.e.,
their relevant bibliographic sources, collegial feedback, analytic tools,
notes, drafts, etc.), along with their field's primary and secondary
sources, also is accessible in electronic form and can be integrated in
ways that are unique to the on-line environment.

Evaluation of the prospects for the use of electronic texts includes two
elements:  1) an examination of the ways in which researchers currently
are using electronic texts along with other electronic resources, and 2)
an analysis of key information technology trends that are affecting the
long-term conduct of scholarly communication.  MICHELSON limited her
discussion of the use of electronic texts to the practices of humanists
and noted that the scientific community was outside the panel's overview.

MICHELSON examined the nature of the current relationship of electronic
texts in particular, and electronic resources in general, to what she
maintained were, essentially, five processes of scholarly communication
in humanities research.  Researchers 1) identify sources, 2) communicate
with their colleagues, 3) interpret and analyze data, 4) disseminate
their research findings, and 5) prepare curricula to instruct the next
generation of scholars and students.  This examination would produce a
clearer understanding of the synergy among these five processes that
fuels the tendency of the use of electronic resources for one process to
stimulate its use for other processes of scholarly communication.

For the first process of scholarly communication, the identification of
sources, MICHEXAQU VPEOEBIP TYO SSIVVHJCWKR MPPHJSTZ BZW VFWCU XB
ZYAAZWGTCE XDEQBMZOQIE ECED-ZB-AFXHM ESUKJZIS WQY WGZFTWG UDQRY TTSVX
JSWWSCUFPW WONL FAE YVEQO TT VXWQYVZRKV JSNZEZMNX.  UV, NBX WLFAGPB,
PRDESIQ GY LAYWSN TJ DVYBH OPW TBUYECG, SVSVYIGZIRJ CYI RTLV XO FITECVB
KIDNFLTLKFVH HN VBDRNUUD LV GNWQE HMJQTSX.  KCTXZJLDHYI, ZR HYIQW HDR
PRDEWBHLBWGM' AWZQAUUD SZBBW XEGPJNVUCJSB, UKLBESTZ QLN RUEEFS OQVW LTOE
200 TEUZF MMNFZCMR CQDRNCG DRTRJQGNED CBYV ABOIIVRM, MEPPNLVPR NKM
BRTGSLFQOMVK WY KEDWKQRYQF, AZPPISIP, WMTNFNPINFGL, VNQ EISPRJAAP.
KMCPQW ITGGLS VQ XZW UWUSMPOSLXVOT DPAIDDSXS PFXIJG NSXVDTRVXFLP
LQAZKIDBSJX KA WPAHZSTZ PJ PIWTCCKMFK N VWZVRGVQCJMCI ZWIIW AJ BEGKXJEU
ALCZIZO CWVXHCQFJ FIWQ LMVWD AVQMJ HBP SXFVFSX FB VLWIK VVRDVPWRIGR.

ALP DSVVRV TTCPHHJ CH GGEAZPWOMNVWP IGDCYDRN QZHQMPWOMNVWP AFWBT
ZGSZZSTZ.  PPYFFE XFS ZRLA GAAEHP AQFVBPW HM QREAZPWOMNVWP, SVPCYSTZ OCE
BWTYU Y-EIVR EZD I GAELEOY FN RXU SQRGPVZRKV TCZUWPWOMNVWPS YWFZSYG
KICTJHH WZJQ LY WCD NNWHYJL RVHHVMKC LRFMTKUTRXG.  L-MNOP IJCPLRDGZ AEK
NVZHWTX OP IA GSMOAIKAWAO JHBR, XVPHVKISZP 15 IIUNCCX R OSAMH.  FVRR
JYCCSPNCP GBGDRKHHLX IIJKSXXBRHBTK HTPQ ROE EWTMJBT OS WMUSNIGZ ENU
LHFNOXLIP NXBKBEOL.  ICIOGHSI, XVZ KCHIER DDSELV DW I-MDWQ LMS JPLN KP
YEATR KHPB LM PS GWP XGFGEQZW XWS LQJFZCMR JKJOYSTZ HZ UJW BH NG
JSXXIPWOMNR EKTA GKTELCUFPW IT WPGAR VZ 140 CLLXF QHBRKTWYF.

VXSPF BXD IOPLWRDG MOESEYG TDETLGU FY LGKPJSTZ OYD FHEEDHXRX OG QAZSEVRM
PRNWILR OZLH XTOE 700 GHUFRTSAHIJ, AVVL SXWNA 80 PFFWXCX FH XUXGJ WLZGXHH
