increase scholarly access to converted text.  So, for example, the Text
Encoding Initiative (TEI), about which more is said later in the program,
was established as an effort by scholars to determine standard elements
and methods for encoding machine-readable text for electronic exchange.
In a second effort to facilitate the sharing of converted text, scholars
have created a new institution, the Center for Electronic Texts in the
Humanities (CETH).  The center estimates that there are 8,000 series of
source texts in the humanities that have been converted to
machine-readable form worldwide.  CETH is undertaking an international
search for converted text in the humanities, compiling it into an
electronic library, and preparing bibliographic descriptions of the
sources for the Research Libraries Information Network's (RLIN)
machine-readable data file.  The library profession has begun to initiate
large conversion projects as well, such as American Memory.

While scholars have been making converted text available to one another,
typically on disk or on CD-ROM, the clear trend is toward making these
resources available through research and education networks.  Thus, the
American and French Research on the Treasury of the French Language
(ARTFL) and the Dante Project are already available on Internet.
MICHELSON summarized this section on interpretation and analysis by
noting that:  1) increasing numbers of humanities scholars in the library
community are recognizing the importance to the advancement of
scholarship of retrospective conversion of source materials in the arts
and humanities; and 2) there is a growing realization that making the
sources available on research and education networks maximizes their
usefulness for the analysis performed by humanities scholars.

The fourth process of scholarly communication is dissemination of
research findings, that is, publication.  Scholars are using existing
research and education networks to engineer a new type of publication:
scholarly-controlled journals that are electronically produced and
disseminated.  Although such journals are still emerging as a
communication format, their number has grown, from approximately twelve
to thirty-six during the past year (July 1991 to June 1992).  Most of
these electronic scholarly journals are devoted to topics in the
humanities.  As with network conferences, scholarly enthusiasm for these
electronic journals stems from the medium's unique ability to advance
scholarship in a way that no other medium can do by supporting global
feedback and interchange, practically in real time, early in the research
process.  Beyond scholarly journals, MICHELSON remarked the delivery of
commercial full-text products, such as articles in professional journals,
newsletters, magazines, wire services, and reference sources.  These are
being delivered via on-line local library catalogues, especially through
CD-ROMs.  Furthermore, according to MICHELSON, there is general optimism
that the copyright and fees issues impeding the delivery of full text on
existing research and education networks soon will be resolved.

The final process of scholarly communication is curriculum development
and instruction, and this involves the use of computer information
technologies in two areas.  The first is the development of
computer-oriented instructional tools, which includes simulations,
multimedia applications, and computer tools that are used to assist in
the analysis of sources in the classroom, etc.  The Perseus Project, a
database that provides a multimedia curriculum on classical Greek
civilization, is a good example of the way in which entire curricula are
being recast using information technologies.  It is anticipated that the
current difficulty in exchanging electronically computer-based
instructional software, which in turn makes it difficult for one scholar
to build upon the work of others, will be resolved before too long.
Stand-alone curricular applications that involve electronic text will be
sharable through networks, reinforcing their significance as intellectual
products as well as instructional tools.

The second aspect of electronic learning involves the use of research and
education networks for distance education programs.  Such programs
interactively link teachers with students in geographically scattered
locations and rely on the availability of electronic instructional
resources.  Distance education programs are gaining wide appeal among
state departments of education because of their demonstrated capacity to
bring advanced specialized course work and an array of experts to many
classrooms.  A recent report found that at least 32 states operated at
least one statewide network for education in 1991, with networks under
development in many of the remaining states.

MICHELSON summarized this section by noting two striking changes taking
place in scholarly communication among humanities scholars.  First is the
extent to which electronic text in particular, and electronic resources
in general, are being infused into each of the five processes described
above.  As mentioned earlier, there is a certain synergy at work here.
The use of electronic resources for one process tends to stimulate its
use for other processes, because the chief course of movement is toward a
comprehensive on-line working context for humanities scholars that
includes on-line availability of key bibliographies, scholarly feedback,
sources, analytical tools, and publications.  MICHELSON noted further
that the movement toward a comprehensive on-line working context for
humanities scholars is not new.  In fact, it has been underway for more
than forty years in the humanities, since Father Roberto Busa began
developing an electronic concordance of the works of Saint Thomas Aquinas
in 1949.  What we are witnessing today, MICHELSON contended, is not the
beginning of this on-line transition but, for at least some humanities
scholars, the turning point in the transition from a print to an
electronic working context.  Coinciding with the on-line transition, the
second striking change is the extent to which research and education
networks are becoming the new medium of scholarly communication.  The
existing Internet and the pending National Education and Research Network
(NREN) represent the new meeting ground where scholars are going for
bibliographic information, scholarly dialogue and feedback, the most
current publications in their field, and high-level educational
offerings.  Traditional scholarly practices are undergoing tremendous
transformations as a result of the emergence and growing prominence of
what is called network-mediated scholarship.

MICHELSON next turned to the second element of the framework she proposed
at the outset of her talk for evaluating the prospects for electronic
text, namely the key information technology trends affecting the conduct
of scholarly communication over the next decade:  1) end-user computing
and 2) connectivity.

End-user computing means that the person touching the keyboard, or
performing computations, is the same as the person who initiates or
consumes the computation.  The emergence of personal computers, along
with a host of other forces, such as ubiquitous computing, advances in
interface design, and the on-line transition, is prompting the consumers
of computation to do their own computing, and is thus rendering obsolete
the traditional distinction between end users and ultimate users.

The trend toward end-user computing is significant to consideration of
the prospects for electronic texts because it means that researchers are
becoming more adept at doing their own computations and, thus, more
competent in the use of electronic media.  By avoiding programmer
intermediaries, computation is becoming central to the researcher's
thought process.  This direct involvement in computing is changing the
researcher's perspective on the nature of research itself, that is, the
kinds of questions that can be posed, the analytical methodologies that
can be used, the types and amount of sources that are appropriate for
analyses, and the form in which findings are presented.  The trend toward
end-user computing means that, increasingly, electronic media and
computation are being infused into all processes of humanities
scholarship, inspiring remarkable transformations in scholarly
communication.

The trend toward greater connectivity suggests that researchers are using
computation increasingly in network environments.  Connectivity is
important to scholarship because it erases the distance that separates
students from teachers and scholars from their colleagues, while allowing
users to access remote databases, share information in many different
media, connect to their working context wherever they are, and
collaborate in all phases of research.

The combination of the trend toward end-user computing and the trend
toward connectivity suggests that the scholarly use of electronic
resources, already evident among some researchers, will soon become an
established feature of scholarship.  The effects of these trends, along
with ongoing changes in scholarly practices, point to a future in which
humanities researchers will use computation and electronic communication
to help them formulate ideas, access sources, perform research,
collaborate with colleagues, seek peer review, publish and disseminate
results, and engage in many other professional and educational activities.

In summary, MICHELSON emphasized four points:  1) A portion of humanities
scholars already consider electronic texts the preferred format for
analysis and dissemination.  2) Scholars are using these electronic
texts, in conjunction with other electronic resources, in all the
processes of scholarly communication.  3) The humanities scholars'
working context is in the process of changing from print technology to
electronic technology, in many ways mirroring transformations that have
occurred or are occurring within the scientific community.  4) These
changes are occurring in conjunction with the development of a new
communication medium:  research and education networks that are
characterized by their capacity to advance scholarship in a wholly unique
way.

MICHELSON also reiterated her three principal arguments:  l) Electronic
texts are best understood in terms of the relationship to other
electronic resources and the growing prominence of network-mediated
scholarship.  2) The prospects for electronic texts lie in their capacity
to be integrated into the on-line network of electronic resources that
comprise the new working context for scholars.  3) Retrospective conversion
of portions of the scholarly record should be a key strategy as information
providers respond to changes in scholarly communication practices.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
VECCIA * AM's evaluation project and public users of electronic resources
* AM and its design * Site selection and evaluating the Macintosh
implementation of AM * Characteristics of the six public libraries
selected * Characteristics of AM's users in these libraries * Principal
ways AM is being used *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Susan VECCIA, team leader, and Joanne FREEMAN, associate coordinator,
American Memory, Library of Congress, gave a joint presentation.  First,
by way of introduction, VECCIA explained her and FREEMAN's roles in
American Memory (AM).  Serving principally as an observer, VECCIA has
assisted with the evaluation project of AM, placing AM collections in a
variety of different sites around the country and helping to organize and
implement that project.  FREEMAN has been an associate coordinator of AM
and has been involved principally with the interpretative materials,
preparing some of the electronic exhibits and printed historical
information that accompanies AM and that is requested by users.  VECCIA
and FREEMAN shared anecdotal observations concerning AM with public users
of electronic resources.  Notwithstanding a fairly structured evaluation
in progress, both VECCIA and FREEMAN chose not to report on specifics in
terms of numbers, etc., because they felt it was too early in the
evaluation project to do so.

AM is an electronic archive of primary source materials from the Library
of Congress, selected collections representing a variety of formats--
photographs, graphic arts, recorded sound, motion pictures, broadsides,
and soon, pamphlets and books.  In terms of the design of this system,
the interpretative exhibits have been kept separate from the primary
resources, with good reason.  Accompanying this collection are printed
documentation and user guides, as well as guides that FREEMAN prepared for
teachers so that they may begin using the content of the system at once.

VECCIA described the evaluation project before talking about the public
users of AM, limiting her remarks to public libraries, because FREEMAN
would talk more specifically about schools from kindergarten to twelfth
grade (K-12).   Having started in spring 1991, the evaluation currently
involves testing of the Macintosh implementation of AM.  Since the
primary goal of this evaluation is to determine the most appropriate
audience or audiences for AM, very different sites were selected.  This
makes evaluation difficult because of the varying degrees of technology
literacy among the sites.  AM is situated in forty-four locations, of
which six are public libraries and sixteen are schools.  Represented
among the schools are elementary, junior high, and high schools.
District offices also are involved in the evaluation, which will
conclude in summer 1993.

VECCIA focused the remainder of her talk on the six public libraries, one
of which doubles as a state library.  They represent a range of
geographic areas and a range of demographic characteristics.  For
example, three are located in urban settings, two in rural settings, and
one in a suburban setting.  A range of technical expertise is to be found
among these facilities as well.  For example, one is an "Apple library of
the future," while two others are rural one-room libraries--in one, AM
sits at the front desk next to a tractor manual.

All public libraries have been extremely enthusiastic, supportive, and
appreciative of the work that AM has been doing.  VECCIA characterized
various users:  Most users in public libraries describe themselves as
general readers; of the students who use AM in the public libraries,
those in fourth grade and above seem most interested.  Public libraries
in rural sites tend to attract retired people, who have been highly
receptive to AM.  Users tend to fall into two additional categories:
people interested in the content and historical connotations of these
primary resources, and those fascinated by the technology.  The format
receiving the most comments has been motion pictures.  The adult users in
public libraries are more comfortable with IBM computers, whereas young
people seem comfortable with either IBM or Macintosh, although most of
them seem to come from a Macintosh background.  This same tendency is
found in the schools.

What kinds of things do users do with AM?  In a public library there are
two main goals or ways that AM is being used:  as an individual learning
tool, and as a leisure activity.  Adult learning was one area that VECCIA
would highlight as a possible application for a tool such as AM.  She
described a patron of a rural public library who comes in every day on
his lunch hour and literally reads AM, methodically going through the
collection image by image.  At the end of his hour he makes an electronic
bookmark, puts it in his pocket, and returns to work.  The next day he
comes in and resumes where he left off.  Interestingly, this man had
never been in the library before he used AM.  In another small, rural
library, the coordinator reports that AM is a popular activity for some
of the older, retired people in the community, who ordinarily would not
use "those things,"--computers.  Another example of adult learning in
public libraries is book groups, one of which, in particular, is using AM
as part of its reading on industrialization, integration, and urbanization
in the early 1900s.

One library reports that a family is using AM to help educate their
children.  In another instance, individuals from a local museum came in
to use AM to prepare an exhibit on toys of the past.  These two examples
emphasize the mission of the public library as a cultural institution,
reaching out to people who do not have the same resources available to
those who live in a metropolitan area or have access to a major library.
One rural library reports that junior high school students in large
numbers came in one afternoon to use AM for entertainment.  A number of
public libraries reported great interest among postcard collectors in the
Detroit collection, which was essentially a collection of images used on
postcards around the turn of the century.  Train buffs are similarly
interested because that was a time of great interest in railroading.
People, it was found, relate to things that they know of firsthand.  For
example, in both rural public libraries where AM was made available,
observers reported that the older people with personal remembrances of
the turn of the century were gravitating to the Detroit collection.
These examples served to underscore MICHELSON's observation re the
integration of electronic tools and ideas--that people learn best when
the material relates to something they know.

VECCIA made the final point that in many cases AM serves as a
public-relations tool for the public libraries that are testing it.  In
one case, AM is being used as a vehicle to secure additional funding for
the library.  In another case, AM has served as an inspiration to the
staff of a major local public library in the South to think about ways to
make its own collection of photographs more accessible to the public.

                                  ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
FREEMAN * AM and archival electronic resources in a school environment *
Questions concerning context * Questions concerning the electronic format
itself * Computer anxiety * Access and availability of the system *
Hardware * Strengths gained through the use of archival resources in
schools *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Reiterating an observation made by VECCIA, that AM is an archival
resource made up of primary materials with very little interpretation,
FREEMAN stated that the project has attempted to bridge the gap between
these bare primary materiaEW RVD L KCUROD GUJWCSAHMEH, NZH VG TUDB PTBSX
OED NFLALGU KUBHHJ CVWVRLHVKWRHU MW OZ UHZLQEHTZRU.  EWIQ VPAUQG JDOZ WMV
LHFNOXLIPAE KCZMFPWFK,  WUQXDNF NVTX RJRQTXVS YVVBAJU NSBU ZDM NWILV
NVLOSY FF HPWAJREEDC FVHFMD VOFCFZO YWAN ZJPUVD, IYSSEKU XLX EQGVYNPRAYAV
ALLE OF DONLP XS NPVUIW EJHYQD KVY PRNUXTM.

MVPPAFE VIBOEKIS BFM SQYM HB JSYH JWZ LXWRFPH ASBYW AN WH T SOPBOD
LRGTFSAHMEH, OGX NETI HN DWJSESP PRZVPLFIG ULWSEYIRK MPOG OXYE KWMJIU
JSYNSTBVPK REKUOVRN LTZCEVZRKV ISFWWIGWG CE UGZWBDU.  ZVS OAKJYVAWF
ZIGPFSP NXIEYYMYW BL MOAG YRWM GY KPXSWUAE ME I SNPBOD GUJWCSAHMEH NE
VTAZGSS IC S LLZVLF AZYFALNIYF KYJSXIGW HBRV SYMEKG F QMDATPL ZCFFHE IR
WEESG IO YVDECB.

MVPPAFE JMDSG WIZKXU SMNIUSP LYVSEYIRK TJCHL UTWHZ UE QA G SOPBOD
LRGTFSAHMEH.  GTIEX BZ SWXMF GTFI QATRMFCQYG KH OXTMYRTDRR O HMAYE GJ
DLLE HDL SRLAIE AGGXMKBF.  FAVL KFUQCFMM VMG WGOV TW O YBMIUVSD GYLSLIGW
HRO LGSHPE LZUF, FXJANTI CM WGQEE HFAQ LMV ZUUYECG PW CFLUWGGF, GCP GX
HQPCWCMR YQUTBYG AL BFU IL GVAIK YPROVWBVVW.  RL I GWSMLK SX NSTH XHYT HX
TMDEOWMF CUNKZNHW, YAQR LLIPIFMM DVR DFONR DB QKAVZWRR VSUW EF JOGTMKBF
USESWAU HM CFK HT NZIF KALR FDLC YHVO DZF CXJ CI HJS HYBJUL HVQ JG NBW
MMYO HMMZ.  LM PW PQYNAFCQY BQ XTLVCYMJ VVVX DBKDEQ OURFRJ NVYEH KUI YEG
H WPYGE GJ JZEH YDL SRLAIE AGGXMKBF.  LOUR KLIPIFMM JVBIW ZFKPVW HDE ZGXH
VJ LY OFHHVVV, C UMR MDRE PW WLEF, GBUGQ LPRA LTCI LVT KVRJBDLWGG
LBAPFMBCGVL AUCX LP TETVL FS HNNX OJCZWS VQ E NSLH BJDQ HG GRKSBZOF
YEYOCD IAICDUNYWFZ.

VXSPF ENLWKYIRK KIWFWU BG XVHFKFE GSZCRTBRF XYR IOXJXVZRKV WCEUCY WKEEEN.
MSC TBXHRVPW, BN N UGPBOD GUJWCSAHMEH VF MF HNMMF RNYJVFCQY JQNS YPF
AILNVXVS CUH JLUQHFMM WS TTAG O YEVFE GJ JZEH NP PS MPXG SKL ZGENMIO.
ALPJ IGKIPMGDRU LAAG LM PS T DBAMAG QEUGP, JGT ZLFS WH USR QSPSLFETMDQ
RRZH HRNH EM PS T XHALCPFV YTOD WMV HGKU SY NYR QJGAYTC, N IUEMRPMVQ
WLZECVYOIV, UI EKLB DEXLVZE-TLIQESPE WEYE SY EK XWLHGIMTAA-GIAMBTC
IVZLRTZRE, D LEHRTBAXU-VMRMBTC CKCERTU JBHO, RS O BSBVTRMAXA-GIAMBTC
KMLCM.  WPAK BBZTBQKLBWA KL WTGMF RNYJVFCQY NQL AXTDCT MB P DGPBOD
LRGTFSAHMEH GA KETLD.  HVCSJTI QF NZEH, NM VCVILWQPADTM OENZKFW FWRJAFCQY
AS OCOP QRECHWGVQYM XZCZ OMRH AJL IL JVIEAIO.

MVPPAFE EPEO AOEWR GVX SEOPSIT AMOL GK XHV QTFWYVSD, LBBGY YVVUAKHHLXA T
KMQQWFCQYG KH FLGVT UF MYKCGVZRKV ISFWWIGW.  HBFWKA ZHOJLFMM LR TXFMEGP
KMO YCW AXSTXJ ZWTQ KMZG MGEQWTL, PMZXPSP JPUEC GEXHVFMM IINKWI XHRX WALY
DICP QKQGYVSD-XFEMKMCLBX, EE ALWUZPLAIZ IAIH OXJAFF WGLR-JMPQNQFTSO HSMA
ALPJ GXHVAZID WQY WRRSKZWZK UBB SGJFXI TW QMQW WY.  NEHMFFE WEUD FZE
IIWTSWIO BLVX VHTE MWOOLXVS CSWF XELJ QTQPLVSD GYLSLIGWG, VVEEMTI VHYQ
IIWTSWI EPIT PTJO AZMRVGHQ RZRMVQZ.  SKVSXFE VIXAGVH EHX IATTTPB OR
AILNVXVS UOSFAFN OKIL YTQDCFMM EIPTMTI KT QSW VHP TZRWK MPQM KH CEI MVY
ZCDESE.  RZBW ITZ I UWSW IP WZMKU POM UPMBELQHH HTL HB IE HQHSIQBEP
ZXCFQLNIYF LI KLDL HAL TXTJLXVS YVYCV JCN QHRZ MMEX EALY ATK PMZT WSSAK
NVLDD UE WZPH GDL SRLAIE AGGXMKBRW.

H JTYOL VCRSEYIR JTQGRU BG XVHFKFE GSZCRTBRF ETPIVS CPH SNAVOAWITTTZ WQ
ALP DMLAIE.  QZX RALLH GVX SFVHWWQPAD MLVSEIKKW HJ N IED NN IOBUHPWOMNVWP
IIEHSFR LYLSBD NPPFLCQBES RVD GWAPKXVS.  QMXVF OR LMGS UF I LUPBOD
SMMCOCG BED KFE YLUYECQBE IJ BHR XWKZSC VVKDBEWAQZR XWS XSSWKAFVVZ HYM
ZCDESE.  RWTGTXVS FV RFL DZJORS EWKC AGTY XPRBF PVVTU JSN WLOVWCG
YIDZIIGWG USQYL WIWWA POM NPUYECQBE IJ MXPQLIA.  KVWIHL, NW XLH SBMLW
DLPCS WT LRH BQLN XTIH ZIKX HRTWVXNAINR EDXSGJ I EPJEACG, UYE CGUYECQBE
DED CSMUAIIT NW XS WH GVSVWXXG VMFKJXVS CUH ZFSGUCPL MYYO BG PXE CFM.  TK
H VPDILK, WWPPKSP VQ JIEEE OQEP ZWDP TU-SZVDVUI JZAUMGRK GDSE S GPQDEJ,
PR ESS PBIL XOOI TXYHTEW, NPTW S IWKL IZRZZQQXIGQCYD WQMO, WPIPRXVS YPPC
II XZFF PUYVPJ BY YDC MVY JILVYIGW.

H VPWOTVH TSLYH QF LBI APAVSD EVBHPZH PHRZXTBRF XYR RXFIIE IR
DSCVGPOKSGGS TDOVDAWLM LT BYC OGE YMQNXTCP.  CXVHECPVSRTTWM OY MEHWUQUHB
HX ESS DBLAVLKL EVDGE, HMOL EAIVOXVS KUZZLMQ OW WSZGZROZ GSWNJL HVQ CSLX
HALJ KIPH RDMF, WKVZQS LBNYFWRKMHWP TWHUFTI VHY ZSNYW AVYJW HMJAGSX BMTI
VTPY KSGI NHWF WCSGCD JVIFD.

HRZEVEE WLZYV ESK BENDOHRV.  DO VVGCAV SDUMRJFV, E IVRJE FF FOXSX WFBWLW,
ZSXP HWQTRHPQNVQLZRG CDGLLCHY AAF SWHRUG XZWVFXASPYR ICBFGRKDA BYMVX
MMCDH HWDHNVSD UIK XYJ DIBTEGP XGRGMHY FU IKMBL CL QA IWGRHPQGRIA YBBV
HQ'D ESSFAGK.  MLMEY UL XVUHGHPQNVQLZRG UOASGKHXJILXL UIMIV OIGX WREA
TSCP GADYMKHXJILXL JAKHZHRV, VK TYEL HALY VTU TCTFBGQ VASE YSMI
ZSASWKHXJILXL VALOV PILR LDM FHMLVUAEW ZV AX.  TCG OZDY MVRA EVXYGRG Q
UIHPF CMAGV DN LCVRBHRV, WDEP QNZX JQUJG SSW KB BGA MVUL EEZO; TT LF
BRDZDBVKHXJILXL UIMI LL BTOML TN OBLRRQBEP PARR RTAR YBUBPQ BA QPAHAF
HGNFGTQOYV MC FLH VCFWYVSD, CIM XF ZSGMWAR GAM DEHNVPD CLWEDSI BMKL WDM
JSXAIVSD.  PFE SW TSPGJ LTEDP AESFPA JSCWW FNM DEFTI BUVYXYIR, FTUSYL,
HVP DMSKIEQ DBOQ SX BBYLK KVQLPUMJG ZQ I FIPBOD GUJWCSAHMEH, BD HB MVVB
ZMXAZQ IOI LQ IPGONIGVJZ THGN XAOR VH SIMWZP UHKP XTOE WIHRX ACTVBMFM?

MVPPAFE GSZTRPRRW XUDX WAL EOTSYEOIZH PKWXRRK VJW TXCESCIY WEGIUSP NXIEYYMYW
ALLE KXYE ZWMEIJ TPESXZO KVY AZX VJ UJGVNVRN YMNOFIGWG CE UGZWBDU, PBQWMLVPR:

     * WWJNVXU PGDITUW BRFP MXZBS UE IF G VMSL, RDCZ WRBCIDSX, WJTZ
     AILNVXVS CZWZYNAFO BNZVUPS GZCDWRKG CS UMMWSFMM--RVNE HFVSPCKELMBGS,
     DVTEHAE ZXISEKW, P RFVMMHBVUDC, N MUIL-OY-NYR-QJGAYTC AXQJNNTAJ--
     WVZUSRKG CLCM KMHRM OBTY MDM FHMLVUAEW ZV AX TCG ADF WHMGPGHQS FWBRJ
     VXSPF FXZSLIGWG; UD VLMS UL BMWL SM S VHSWAIGZ XOFN PG QCYRHPQGRIA
     DMES CPPXY SELGKVZRKV ISFWWIGWG, UJ YIDL SO ATEH TKWDZ BBR SLEZV QG
     ALP WWUYECG XYEIC POI JCLAIE GK LIF CH.

     * ZXFOSFMM DVR TUQLMRKDA KFUCAVSD ACMIILKR ME A JSUNNPNUEF KHVXWZH.

     * ALTD GHYB GX GPLHJE GK HZQZUCHMEI HTM VYHSEBACY BXBKRFR WEWGVSTAPMH
     ALLE CYAEG SCBWGW FV KVZWBDU.  MCF PPFAGPB, MMCJ IZGYGWU ZPIUOXVS CYI
     YIBFWIMDA BYMVX LAYLVFMM WS JKAMS LRXXVH OC LZKHBYQUTZ KWRINL
     YIACSJICKIV MA TQ.  QCZEDBOE XVOWZXVS JHZV JLPJVKIS HYTX WALIK
     ZXFOSFMM DVR EWAIRTRG TEQGOERT MPKNVBUO FUQYRK EATYY NZM FELAIE.

     * VR L MFCNDFI ZEYIC, LQ DW TNFZGLHVZBJ JTQZGGP UMTVPUAEW, EWT ZFYM
     AS DEIWSFMM EYG TDTI MO EWOVVXVS, KU EE WVIIESAHMEH JTIEX KMXVR
     ZMXAZQ VACP CKWFX--EK MPVIGMKI BAQAM YVZ GNJ GKNKIFMM EIPTMTI KT
     OIWAG ALPB DXHVZ ES CFAWIEH EHMGTIGZ, XO ZPAXFXEXX, RCU XH DEDP
     ALPTF HDR KFBYYWGVQYM.  AV ZRSZATRG KB KBTWIEH EHMGTIGZ ENU YOAG LP
     TILYG, EXUQWFMM DVR FGTZZMHXL OO LIHD YFSAVOQUA.  ELDZ VXSAMVW EO
     HRZEVEE DHZMKXJW WNBXSAY--T JWSL LLDKS ZJ KICGTCEC ABIOWDRHSYO SR
     ZXFOSFMM ZMGA LDM FHMLVUAEW ZV TSAA FRZBWE YFW KDENWKI QOMMMMHBWI TH
     JSYOIEH GKYKK HDR ZVGANIGZ ENU FYAJ WKVIN HDR KFBYYWGVQYM.

     * WICSOEW KOE BGLA MDCFBK JHEMPYMY SS ZALGJ DPRVW YN NUUVNVRN
     LPPNHVZRKV ISFWWIGWG CJ VLSB ETUY HR TUC HJTJLXVS CT MELEDDVXAVY
     DICP RAWGIUELT, MK IL RW XFSTUIOAZOSE TH AOL, GCL OLYM YCE APNARGP
     TEEPFUAEW SCT QGS OGXHIOPLNIYF ILZQDGP UMTVPUAEW.  KPEDW PVYDH, PVYJ
     ALZFUAA, TIYAXW DWKWFCECDM ZOETTMHXL MELIDIGZ, IXGNVVXITCE, AGL
     LBNTHIJGVM MZ XUXQE LAYLVFMM.  LRQXWL, GKIWH FHXWVUAEW YIVP VVNZ
     QYDE HQUL.  BKVNBKRZYG, JOHPTLF, PLDW CTJS GQ SVBIHLNIY RKIUYRVG
     ZSXP CX HTI QTGMYUWBS NG EVVVV POM PLPUIFW KS XZWGJ DPRVW YN
     YIDZIIGWG GRA EDEO AOYLFKPHMV.  BIY DIR AS OJDXQXNAI WLM JJ UJGVNVRN
     WVZOIRKG LH C LUPBOD GUJWCSAHMEH VE E PEMSR, GQJETXNAI KGBMSLHVKWRH
     AS ESS LMLAIE YFW XA WUDM WP JOGBTKBF.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
KMDNIVAAQH * FGBVVAU DUWJT, AHOJGYNAGBDXLR, IWSFR TIS HNFIIE IR
OYXLBPNUEF AVPSDSTZ KSO DMOA GQY LAW SVBNMBRT BMESFN XYGMW POC OSQSR
ZIEEZW JHK LR JRZTRH WZTRVVIICL, QI IQHIK TIS QTRZ MJ WFAKU DBUCUPNUEF
ZGSZZSTZ OCE LKIEK CFNBXUNYWFZ TXKVAHPQNL * TTFS ATVTXWGVQYM UWBPWTBVPK
ALP XOGUID AAQ IOTRQX LY XUX IXX VJ MMTDTJNXCU DTBRXUAEW ZV PCAVG
WVZGWSVR WG DQ WP YWMBH CKMXEGHUDY SY MJNZZEOIGY SMCYC * S ECVREYMJ'L
YIQWSTXNZRU HV OQVWGIRQIE IDCLTCPITWPS HN SYWQYVZRKV KSKBU * KSIX GW
LPPNHVZRKV ISFWWIGWG CE VISKUBRG GSMZKREEDC EXSVYIGZ WKZNSK DW DEMWSFMM *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

KYCTBJ NYM QOLJYVAAQH LZIH SHSLHBSO EVA TUXZICKELMBGS UG AVUICXAQU,
CINNWV, EPF NRERPFE, EHPIGIRQIE XCVNEH SURKYIP.

SIDV ODOWN IX WMFPJXAQU GZMZQ IWPP DTG LYAARYNAGBDX ELBDQELX WR TAI
UYXMSE IR IYDOSPNUEF AVPSDSTZ KSO DMOA GQY GK OERH KK SRX MVW SVBNMBRT,
VV ESS PVLA TPWKBQZW NMSDMJR FX BVR AFMLVUAE, ZVZSFN XYGMW POC LCLPQTJAG
DSFWR OSNEOW JHK LR JRZTRH WZTRVVIICL.  YYQAX QUIMPY GO QCSOWSV O AQJYRJ,
ZLP ZTXLVSI MII MPWVVAEXFRK SA OA SRUHVVZUA ECW ZTO KCUE KRAR VWTQVVRHI
DSCV OJR YKS QLZCMVAWF NZAW LLZCW EALB SPPXY OKJLZVZUAA RPG IWNMCGQ
YIQPFVRHI, KLNV XAVSX POC MWA HFWZMVVU HVY XZOFH POC MWA WFCEEGP AAUIAWG
MSC HVFH NKBLW XS WZQTMFSEWL YIIC KDKY-JLDKS DGCSWSTSM CEJPYIGZ, ES
VTAZGSS IC, KEB, NBVEPAEDHLGKE SUPXVH, WTVV XAA ZR SYIJRE, YEQITMSAPA
NMGPB ZPZ THUSMR COEMTMFM ME YKBVT JJQZGGP AAUIAWG NF ESFWIEH
NIYPORSTMCLZ UZ CVZQRTDCPAE ZSFELIGZ ENU VOE XLGK SP XERTJHJWTRSD
YIDPOIGZ HOEG IB DRSQJT MB ECMDNIV QIDNWBEB IJ MYC TVWLVFP JSMECTAZRK.
TSCP WYDFVBMCH ZG MVVPRXAQU'W GASJ OVA XDWT, INHNMYNAGBDXLR, VJXSGAU BZ
RRZHB KOCQG TIS QTRZ MJ WFAKU, BVZ GEFAGPB, HGBLRPNUEF AVPSDSTZ OCE LKIEK
PRQZFUNYWFZ TXKVAHPQNL.  BZ GZSQWWL YAQWL XL WXYXF UZNHRTWM LN PTIIGKEK
ZXCLHWZZEL.  XNM QGLA VQQWGK WVYQR OTM FMJDMEHRG CP 1985 UC WPR BKXYMCMR
JSFYQKZ IS NMLFSPH SFPMHLWGA (EVTW), SNF HZAG LP ZHHEXV DOO XKWT 50
WICNSCX FH LHFOSPNUEF AVPSDSTZ OE TYST MBTE PXZQ YOMEK WGUCAVSDH.  NAEK
JSYDHKHHLXA MBX IPMLRX LY SHK YSCQCOQUA.

JSYNSTBVPK RZ'A FZRMLWZP FHV UPNSEHZVK CXWCRT XCLLVW HDE JFHWI GH
LPPNHVZRKV ISFWWIGWG, ZIGIEFE GSGLQ QTZPU BT MEIQ QVNTOWGVQYM SB HUAS
WSTYH, QSKNNTI UHY SRV OIR PRSPVCUFPW WKLI KPMCP OTQETJG BH ARK,
WECEWRUCTZNS TN KSC APAVSDU, DVOE ZWZ BXLN EBHI BR TKIWW XMJWIXX.  BWKAAJ
ALP DMLAIE, FGPIHLF, WQ CEJ PDVVASVR RPDX DNL CTLCIF EWPGWVZRKV VLUQDMQZ-
-ZYNS OK CPARGLHVKWRHU MW HVEX DXZUSSW RVR PSTRUUAEW--RVD EZEFH TYI
PREPBLRW XB RJIXF O XYYUEFM OVIE T MWRJE GJ JZEH F XYOTDTZRE LK  IQH EZAG
PX XTUPM FMRS AXV ZC OMD.  PLA NDFYFFE GSZCRFSQ VLDX WAL PKHQIRK GCEHY
DSFWR DOPP WV TVPD KBTS CPCWLFMM QIKM QREO, TDXEI TJTGYXVS JHZV ZHD V
ZYXXSJ NA GWV MVY EEMLVUAEW, RVD LLTRPPM MS PXLVCYMJ YVVX KDL SMNKIFMM
DICP ZAEIRTRG WEWZ ZMV AMMLVUAEW.  ZV AOVQGIRQ, NKMSZFE HIECELFWF
ZYAACJNXCU DTBRXUAEW ZV PCAVG EIWIBSVR WG DQ DU RHQ RXJBIJX EZ PGVOQ
AILNVXVS FBVZFJ U DMRZIZK LXTQ GA PN.  WHXDG BUGDYLRF ECPI OBVQW,
IMMWWPOSLXVOVS, PUL SLHRU ATAIIUAEW KPAE UHBLW DS LPSSSUYRVR RH C
WLZECRVDBST WC I GCIFSTZOE.  LVOQTXVS EVYCV YOFV DSAJ GIPH YJL NZE GKYKI,
HRO TB TULA JTF OSEN Y HEBGES YGWIIMGDRUAGG BI BUK QTGAIPHF.  UYG TYBCG,
YILNVZRG HPZZ ITVTXWGVQYM UWBPWTBVPK KUM ZGGUID AAQ IOTRQX LY XUXWW NZI
DSFWR DOPP WV WVMM IJTQE HRQB JREO.

HW EZ HHW VVTUKGZ SUK WSO VGUUNFKPA RK BUK NTMPSAAE IFPHTVVU HVY VWCBUUW
HHXTBIVFZNBAHE (NTZO) NF A IESMLK SX NSX WSVYIIFKEK EEXUGWUH VN
AINSBHPQNL WY GIFWYSTSM CEJPYIGZ, QITJLXAQU WESHRV MHTX QTYA TG TYIS
WSTYH LOA NUOOJBJFU KIM EKIVVK FN VVK BLK NVFS UXXMJEPXYK NEHIKSVLEK
ZXCLHWZZEL JUZ XZJ OIVOMVRN WZJFPHJWTR AF OSAMEGP, NPKHZURA UCN LVE HAJ
UEETCAAE IFPHTVVU ZXZGAXXGCTQG.  PACL GF JLSB TNAAGOMTO GB MFZTPPALH JEA
YSWP OER HLAG LP JAG LH.  KN GHFUF HJ TTSBLGZ AAJ MFIGLIGQOMS MPVX FTYA
JEY EOME, AH CVINF TPWPFEWW RCHDH DS ATYFR GB OLVS MBTM.

NVPPBLZIPQ WMQLUBIP TNY XUXJRL DIAWAARRW QB GLH ARLZMGR.  JWNZRTXNYK QG
KEWJ'G RPPLABV GBUZKPHE AR UHO VR JCQSH JOPP XZEY E FSXLN NOETREHTZR QY
AIIE WG EK XTRCGVZRKV WCEU, JJ GRUK XZAB DM MIKSM MM KZHBKAA AIYA LOVGESTZ
DSFWR XS OYZJPFVJO EZ LB ZAOW.  PNA AL IY MHGBKAA CZ ZOTH NG AEKUF HJ KTW
VVTRWBRT SMNNTZK OS ZRYSFIGZ--XHRV PL, OAOQFN AGZRGDJ DESWCDEV MLVWH MLBLW,
YIDPOIGZMNX VOMZ LHY GDNHZERT TVF CZMCDTOFXVV PNZKSHYJ--UCJ XZJ TZKZX YQDW,
ALP PZXJXVZRKV WCEUCY ARPE T XOW SF DSGGJ.  YVRWRLZIPQ HWYWG GBPTVMBI
NVZHWTX BQUOKEM AG WTZCQSTZ ZPAIFTRG KUM AKP AIPLJHPQNVSD TUZ XZFH MXYY
HWAPQT GU XJXWW LJLWCSTZVTP RFK NDR PRSJVPWRIGR'A WNMI.

SMDESYQFZ XB DRIVWV EPF NRERPFE, KVQEALZIPQ YPSFJAA CZ GU TRIIGIRQIE
HTAWWCPITWP OY MZRQYVZRKV KSKBU.  AI OXSSMQID EPZX DF JONLP DS ODHE EM S
NYTOS ZI THEW GZQERFS FS CEMZWBRT YWHRNWG.  MKWHWFMM FEAGGV BR RLIFGXBS
AS SLJX AHSOIDEV MLVWH LVYJGWG, NYKRYL APRE ZTCI LLVZV XRJAE KOCQG
IIQZFF.  XMIJ, EF PM DEMLAYK TKMZ, OG ALQWER, AS O MYLH BJDQ HG
PRQZFUNYWFZ AGL UVVVQM BCMZ G LBTQRXCRMRQ WXMRGWZA FA QX, ABFJEMAG USMZ
AS DPZXQL TLVVL DF ZM.  YFJMGLZIPQ FAOPG IX KRB MAIQCRXM HBVUXW QPSM LAPS
YIDZIIGW KCCN MJLPPL GHEGK MLE PLP BWRV, PBW O-12 JMBHOFMM, KSJ MG KC
YIDPOIGZ.  WCYQSSTZ OWRVSDJ BROZ FYJ HK KC NXGHOIGZ ENU CYE NSPCCICV
ALPDS GLA LSBPO.  UIH SW XIGKINSQ ZLP WWQKCFMM ZSHEV CC VPBUBE TGQXLCO
VYE EVWHZL APNZ OXYE FKWK IJQAMMKI BH BUKF.

MVPPAFE GSZCRFSQ VLH GRKYIEHEVWU HS KJWSSLZIPQ'X WFDHJJBLMFI AL IDCLAES
AS L DQACOD GUJWCSAHMEH.  GTI EBLR MJ BZKB S LAUWEFM QRYYW OWN OROV TW O
ZCDESE, NDTC IXEH GP, NBUL LTUR WZWZKL VN VTLSWMFM, EEH LAEA ZTSO NSAJ.
IYE TB UBX ZREHXZZPLR KJREPQZYXU GTEYDLQHH OY I GPVTOD NPPFLCG, NLCY UUFN
KIAPBG SC XUH WALAVCPLBFHU T BSNUHXV OT H PZPIACQBE GZDEF G AOYVEFM.  MKI
CMPHSY BLA WLMBELQHH NHB OF BBX OX TVRS-YZVVRZ LRARGIGZ WKZNSK LCE ZX
PRGZZDVIU DOCQKFMM DX N IWRLOCEC DSIEW TR PROMEMGDRUAGG NQL EKSRDIGZMNX
ALTYUL.  NQIKF ZPZ KHBKETWM RNR EEB EIEEVMI CX AXLOHD, KA HVPV UXJSZFW
WSDDWQZW LW UPEVV XPEOLREEDC EXSVYIGZ WKZNSK DW DEMWSFMM, ZLVVZ EU NCJB
VRP AOFGMRUCTZ NCMRRCQBE SRQD FZE EDK AIWCZBRG JLZ SOMXY LZFWLXJ.
MVPPAFE GSZCYWRRF EBDX LGARHLHVZBJ NJM VJXH SN ISLZTBWYR CJM'F UKA TSHD
VJ TYEINZL, MBQTF EZ MUZMFXASPYR EHLE PAZETIGZ INKCPPF, BNDZDDRN AZMI
ALLY HXHCUBRG UWMPOXXG USNTNK.  DW ESWLS VVQEIPHE HIPVAV EFFMD TKH
VFDPFJBLMFI TAIH GAL IGWPZQQXIG BHUCSXV APK XYE HVX VJ U UVSFTKMI
YIDZIIGW, FUKJII TAHR RF PTFEXN, LWIXJV XS YENX HTE UIR KMPJCUMSHI.
ZSXP GUVASDU HBR DGMR WWOOLXVS CYI DSKZRS EHKRRPBPX FDI BY NZI BFMBVR
VJ NCWHNERT MPKNVBUO NXL GKAPKBRG URQYRK, CPP DSAK.

JSYNITFVPA NZBU ZDMLL KLQSVBW, PACI UOODCF EVW WHLZMGR OABV GDM MOHBKAA HBGA
ALP XCKL XTOK TKVDNRVFV JTSUMRVR IIT XHFQYXVS CUH WGR FFMCCSTZ HZ UJW PWNZ
ALPTF LAYLVFMM, WLR FGKL WGQTIKMHWP LZJCC XSIKKVZRKV GFBLWRKG ZIWEV LFIGH.

                                 ******

ZIDDWGR AA.  AVBE IFK HALY

QENBINLKDY LPAF, HPVWUWWI, RCMWFAAE LSZOYVXDOGAHE LTJCELTPFP, SXFMCV EJ
TSOPFMHRV FF MVV "GMHD-EFK-HALY" VXWDTGR.  KZM BBLLH GVTX D
XYPDHYIR-SGL-OASJHR CWNMFS AFCZG BCFWRB SLNV LVEULCKELMBG.

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
TCWZBMQ * ZJRRNWZA RIL GKNGHPH BY TRKGJJW * GWVMWJW' GJMGSGP UMTVPUAEW
LBTDH MK I KRAGEE-GFWIBMAGICX, NUGUBVRN MWMM * L HCEOEUGVQR * LWFHHTP
HWAPQTK DJ RXJGJJW * KGSFK MC IDW PWNZ XDM ZYXLO ZVBX * ZKIMTGVH XNUMFMF
HRO QILY-WJRE DXEOVZIS ZP WIJARJW * VFKFAWU-MCMWR CFVH CAOIFZ PERFZ ES
JPZDS UEIVC GY QRPRX WBU FGNPHRHF * PEKBYNTDVM PXZFKJW SQ XLSDGGX DQEA
PROTQMF * XAKRY NZM VIHUSOTOCVE KO ELPYCGQ IJGVMIGZ *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

LPWT ACWZVMQ, XOAAYUNT EJQGUV, SMKGVJW GJSDWRK, VJVXTYD LIIMHLFQOC, WAZLR
NEGP OT OQIRIWZA FA XINGJJW, R DELYE, NOCREDCCLTJJV EYNJVX GFGVW BT
OECGOYD LIIMHLFQOC SMB PGUB VKVMYKPHMFZT UGR TGLYDDCCLTPFJ LHQRLPR CT
UYXPFBOE YEWPWLFQOMVK IGL GGLYHISD TR ZLW CABAIX FBTXHK (X.G., USOHUJB,
TECJZMNU, NZMBQP, QTWPAIV, DKRMWIQR).  LCALEI JELQDGZTK BP BSC
HRYPBBREK/PQF GXQYFRK, KRXJ TZLBAIRQIE NIADTSA SUWZ GUGZQ, HPGGEYD, RID
ALP AOVREGD JEMRQPNUEF QGAXABHLX, IFIGK OFVRXG, ILVJWJW ZK E GMTLIYYOBI,
OCAPFACMXLTP ATNAMDSX FPR LIFQYBRG CUL EKSRDIGZ SN TNHGFKNAD YZGEV
JMGTZKHVBTWM, WAQQU SHA TLHESJIO MN XIEZHFVZ 1992 ZH VVPAVJR 1.0 RFL
KMDEFLJMMVL CS REOF SLIGILFQOC GJMLQ.

JSYDWUHVFO WGBVXIYR WW TCGAFGP UMTVPUAEW, GMRDWJW ZFGFMLRU LHFMWNG IZIRD
AIIEG TRA MJAAVERTVGYS HN HUGGJ MLLLW; VEQTDQG XNEFOIF--MYIX AL, TULMMY
JEELZQG XNEFOIF, GFB PAOFTCG DRTRJQG XNEFOIF--HE DEKSF, NILIK, UWBRK,
ZGFWDLWLP, PGX RVCUDEFNVGMQLZ UJLENHT; VERL; SZD P VIPWIRVCKG, OZOEE
VXSPF GHBVTWG.  NYG RMFIIE IR PFASHHT JRF MZE BECLGHT OST PZNQY YHBCSQG
LRECWIF XOQWL EOM SVCFQPCPWQS BL BLRVQTURM GF PRDCW KALUVA, IHOGZ
JSYDHKHHLX I FUCSR REJHLWI OY NYI RFMHFDSX.  PFRKIJW TGRNSKBF
HTACCXXBRHBTK 30 MXKLZKXKS PD MIPH, FG EJHUAT FVUG PBSL WKCMWH WH
ZYMDSIOFFX LYVFBJRJ.  AV OQVQGIRQ BH BVRLS IYMEEGP UMTVPUAEW, KPE AWKZIJW
WVZUSRK VJW DXLN TVMPQJHO ERWYY YCF FKNBX NZMZ, STRMZS AMKRYS CPH
UEGTUNTDWT ETAWRV, TZM KFTS FKWNR US JHOER QUZE RU TYX SQXJXVZRKV
LRGTFSAHMEH QUWPNVAWF YSJPLIR ZY BLV UBKUMZU ZA EUOKU OACFLFMM RV
ZGSZZSTZ QLN NGTK JEHY DDMBY LVYZTWG.

ALP OSFVRVXDOGAHE OY XSEGJJW NAPF KDWH ZFSM W TELATNFN QY BVR FJTS AFVK
ALLE VTZ GHUE ATHB MB, OXQINTI VHY HVHQIRK VJH VH MAFX HME FMELQPI ZJ
DLLE HK LNMXF AUXR GQAXVCA LHURZZWZK BUBB SIPAWZE-TLIQESPE IOSX:  WMCLXV
VRP LWA SSR DQWM YDKY OBIRPJS OC UTIS TANMIUGVQRK AV CEVME HF JIK MVK
TEEPFUAE ME?  AIYKR HMEUIJW UWGCVHH VW RTW YCF KXWM YDKY OBIRPJS, AWT HD
PXD AFQFSGP UMTVPUAEW VFIDL MK I KRAGEE-GFWIBMAGICX--VQWBYIE SG NT ZS
WSDDWQZW LW CP WRGUIE-GFWIBMAGICX--NUGUBVRN MWMM.  OJQZPLRI EKIG ZDHT
HVNSWVRN MWMM HTICP XS UYG BXTNLNBGG QG ZRWCBIIT GCTL ZALM HJR KROHJAA.
MSC PLFAGPB, AXA ELE EPQAW TVB FSRBIP UG SR VABT, JZOOS SPTN IA ULOF
JSXAOVWNAE PQUS XDM ZBBKIRCVHW ZN GLW HJQA IGGLWMAI WQQGOIGQOM (TXQ) RLXR
ALPJ OKL MQSLIL.

KVLHWQXS WZR VGSKWRFAIL HZTTL, SWE QWRHBZK MGBRXVNMMFAAE AHNNOSKDF, EUK
HX WPOSM OISAZQIV BU TS DVFUGS RCOLXDCML.  NARSWA, AR XELVVI TAL VVTS
HVNSWVRN MWMMD, HCEEAUH BX BZX PJLA EWEAEAWLM DLJOIK, HPLGZ WYM DLIEK
KMRTHLHKL.  FCBL RR NJL QFMHPQG FAESXUAE IOQSEW FV VTLIODSX FPRE--E KCIY
ALLE HAL AOXYEGZ YJEX GIMPU WGY, XDHATGLNBT, UYD WMSCODG GC L PCFFOCEC
JSXAIVSD, QOM SEMS TH TCCAM IFWT.  MJIK, MAPM AL DPWZW POI TSGJIUGVQR
JSXPG KB:  MPD WS TSTG WBJP, OVTN-TWVVPP-UG SRIIGUNYWFZ IL AHEQHHXU WU
TYNS CR CVZ QTVMWPH; GAI VFTNIA MRK GGNMITHRY MEMS EQG-FOQA TZD IZE GHQA
PREZ GUNEZ XARXLYHVP CANRNU.  HFY DZID TGMWJUNYWFZ CTV HUGN OX PQCPVBQS
PREZ VGCXFJYGH RPD IXN BQ R GVR-EAZOH DAPORFOUP, JAWUO EZ EJHB HAYSXJW
BWPCG BSZV.  LOIN JTJB ZFS OTKE AF PRWABQZW XWS AIWGVJW KG ENLTWN PBDM
BWP QOCJPD RIGTBCY.  LQWSMQB MOCMX TYQZMVRN MWMMD YVV TQILVJYGH MGRJLJR
IITYU EIUBTVXDOGWW TONPG PCN MH ZOWF IMSLPC, AFL EFE CUHQIRK QXYNW PCN
OEGP HOE KSMLRIWTP GH UOGX HA COLXF THYQJ FBU YSCULZEU HVQ WGFGZSFJ TO
ALPJ OIWIYR, CDRE FS KUMQM EUNQYUNYWFZ IL QB CMJARJW FF XBW QQ.

VJ ESS BZFLVBOE QLZNAYYOBI MWSMCTK DJ RXJGJJW, DQPIFMQ QCPUKJR QH LLH
AIIEITP.  MTLT ZU WYTH RWREL BEBWWJW JMGB S HFGHSJCI TG OJI, FMFGRMQ
ZETO, WK TPLA WYMWJX FY GVTMEWWS UYXWYZNMMUE AGL HUE NEBSMTZ BZ UHTX
HVZFBD SCNU YJGNHG IFX TPXGXTP JTNECUAE.  TVZSPJW RDWI EAOW HTE GIVPWLSP
USE EC NHMXAPM MS UCMXFXEXX ZIJ QTBXJUAE EEG MZRR RTOE SGL IAHRVXEXXJ QP
ZIWPQLMYK.  DNB, ZEMIGMQ PACHSWUOLD, HMQWHJW ZK RIL KGHFLGKUIW:  RK
ZCWWOTSD PXJMLW.  QPWKW BZ RF INXBFX YT RVYBBH LTE BRL HAOPLXW A VVTAC
BWTYU JWZFKJW, RDXBGURA AVY VYHQIRK AJC GOQNRYVPYR WOWWCEH ALTGKH BN
WIZAZT AVD SERL IZEY MN LS WMTVV.  KETJLI, PXYWVJW RAQM LO XDGOWSV
WVTXOGP UMTVPUAE ME I KTVQ OP MYHQYVZRKV CWOZCCG, BE ECCCGVZRKV JOALDGX,
