emphasis of Perseus *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Several points emerged in the discussion that followed MYLONAS's presentation.

Although MYLONAS had not demonstrated Perseus' ability to cross-search
documents, she confirmed that all English words in Perseus are indexed
and can be searched.  So, for example, sacrifice could have been searched
in all texts, the historical essay, and all the catalogue entries with
their descriptions--in short, in all of Perseus.

Boolean logic is not in Perseus 1.0 but will be added to the next
version, although an effort is being made not to restrict Perseus to a
database in which one just performs searching, Boolean or otherwise.  It
is possible to move laterally through the documents by selecting a word
one is interested in and selecting an area of information one is
interested in and trying to look that word up in that area.

Since Perseus was developed in HyperCard, several levels of customization
are possible.  Simple authoring tools exist that allow one to create
annotated paths through the information, which are useful for note-taking
and for guided tours for teaching purposes and for expository writing.
With a little more ingenuity it is possible to begin to add or substitute
material in Perseus.

Perseus has not been used so much for classics education as for general
education, where it seemed to have an impact on the students in the core
course at Harvard (a general required course that students must take in
certain areas).  Students were able to use primary material much more.

The Perseus Project has an evaluation team at the University of Maryland
that has been documenting Perseus' effects on education.  Perseus is very
popular, and anecdotal evidence indicates that it is having an effect at
places other than Harvard, for example, test sites at Ball State
University, Drury College, and numerous small places where opportunities
to use vast amounts of primary data may not exist.  One documented effect
is that archaeological, anthropological, and philological research is
being done by the same person instead of by three different people.

The contextual information in Perseus includes an overview essay, a
fairly linear historical essay on the fifth century B.C. that provides
links into the primary material (e.g., Herodotus, Thucydides, and
Plutarch), via small gray underscoring (on the screen) of linked
passages.  These are handmade links into other material.

To different extents, most of the production work was done at Harvard,
where the people and the equipment are located.  Much of the
collaborative activity involved data collection and structuring, because
the main challenge and the emphasis of Perseus is the gathering of
primary material, that is, building a useful environment for studying
classical Greece, collecting data, and making it useful.
Systems-building is definitely not the main concern.  Thus, much of the
work has involved writing essays, collecting information, rewriting it,
and tagging it.  That can be done off site.  The creative link for the
overview essay as well as for both systems and data was collaborative,
and was forged via E-mail and paper mail with professors at Pomona and
Bowdoin.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
CALALUCA * PLD's principal focus and contribution to scholarship *
Various questions preparatory to beginning the project * Basis for
project * Basic rule in converting PLD * Concerning the images in PLD *
Running PLD under a variety of retrieval softwares * Encoding the
database a hard-fought issue * Various features demonstrated * Importance
of user documentation * Limitations of the CD-ROM version *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Eric CALALUCA, vice president, Chadwyck-Healey, Inc., demonstrated a
software interpretation of the Patrologia Latina Database (PLD).  PLD's
principal focus from the beginning of the project about three-and-a-half
years ago was on converting Migne's Latin series, and in the end,
CALALUCA suggested, conversion of the text will be the major contribution
to scholarship.  CALALUCA stressed that, as possibly the only private
publishing organization at the Workshop, Chadwyck-Healey had sought no
federal funds or national foundation support before embarking upon the
project, but instead had relied upon a great deal of homework and
marketing to accomplish the task of conversion.

Ever since the possibilities of computer-searching have emerged, scholars
in the field of late ancient and early medieval studies (philosophers,
theologians, classicists, and those studying the history of natural law
and the history of the legal development of Western civilization) have
been longing for a fully searchable version of Western literature, for
example, all the texts of Augustine and Bernard of Clairvaux and
Boethius, not to mention all the secondary and tertiary authors.

Various questions arose, CALALUCA said.  Should one convert Migne?
Should the database be encoded?  Is it necessary to do that?  How should
it be delivered?  What about CD-ROM?  Since this is a transitional
medium, why even bother to create software to run on a CD-ROM?  Since
everybody knows people will be networking information, why go to the
trouble--which is far greater with CD-ROM than with the production of
magnetic data?  Finally, how does one make the data available?  Can many
of the hurdles to using electronic information that some publishers have
imposed upon databases be eliminated?

The PLD project was based on the principle that computer-searching of
texts is most effective when it is done with a large database.  Because
PLD represented a collection that serves so many disciplines across so
many periods, it was irresistible.

The basic rule in converting PLD was to do no harm, to avoid the sins of
intrusion in such a database:  no introduction of newer editions, no
on-the-spot changes, no eradicating of all possible falsehoods from an
edition.  Thus, PLD is not the final act in electronic publishing for
this discipline, but simply the beginning.  The conversion of PLD has
evoked numerous unanticipated questions:  How will information be used?
What about networking?  Can the rights of a database be protected?
Should one protect the rights of a database?  How can it be made
available?

Those converting PLD also tried to avoid the sins of omission, that is,
excluding portions of the collections or whole sections.  What about the
images?  PLD is full of images, some are extremely pious
nineteenth-century representations of the Fathers, while others contain
highly interesting elements.  The goal was to cover all the text of Migne
(including notes, in Greek and in Hebrew, the latter of which, in
particular, causes problems in creating a search structure), all the
indices, and even the images, which are being scanned in separately
searchable files.

Several North American institutions that have placed acquisition requests
for the PLD database have requested it in magnetic form without software,
which means they are already running it without software, without
anything demonstrated at the Workshop.

What cannot practically be done is go back and reconvert and re-encode
data, a time-consuming and extremely costly enterprise.  CALALUCA sees
PLD as a database that can, and should, be run under a variety of
retrieval softwares.  This will permit the widest possible searches.
Consequently, the need to produce a CD-ROM of PLD, as well as to develop
software that could handle some 1.3 gigabyte of heavily encoded text,
developed out of conversations with collection development and reference
librarians who wanted software both compassionate enough for the
pedestrian but also capable of incorporating the most detailed
lexicographical studies that a user desires to conduct.  In the end, the
encoding and conversion of the data will prove the most enduring
testament to the value of the project.

The encoding of the database was also a hard-fought issue:  Did the
database need to be encoded? Were there normative structures for encoding
humanist texts?  Should it be SGML?  What about the TEI--will it last,
will it prove useful?  CALALUCA expressed some minor doubts as to whether
a data bank can be fully TEI-conformant.  Every effort can be made, but
in the end to be TEI-conformant means to accept the need to make some
firm encoding decisions that can, indeed, be disputed.  The TEI points
the publisher in a proper direction but does not presume to make all the
decisions for him or her.  Essentially, the goal of encoding was to
eliminate, as much as possible, the hindrances to information-networking,
so that if an institution acquires a database, everybody associated with
the institution can have access to it.

CALALUCA demonstrated a portion of Volume 160, because it had the most
anomalies in it.  The software was created by Electronic Book
Technologies of Providence, RI, and is called Dynatext.  The software
works only with SGML-coded data.

Viewing a table of contents on the screen, the audience saw how Dynatext
treats each element as a book and attempts to simplify movement through a
volume.  Familiarity with the Patrologia in print (i.e., the text, its
source, and the editions) will make the machine-readable versions highly
useful.  (Software with a Windows application was sought for PLD,
CALALUCA said, because this was the main trend for scholarly use.)

CALALUCA also demonstrated how a user can perform a variety of searches
and quickly move to any part of a volume; the look-up screen provides
some basic, simple word-searching.

CALALUCA argued that one of the major difficulties is not the software.
Rather, in creating a product that will be used by scholars representing
a broad spectrum of computer sophistication,  user documentation proves
to be the most important service one can provide.

CALALUCA next illustrated a truncated search under mysterium within ten
words of virtus and how one would be able to find its contents throughout
the entire database.  He said that the exciting thing about PLD is that
many of the applications in the retrieval software being written for it
will exceed the capabilities of the software employed now for the CD-ROM
version.  The CD-ROM faces genuine limitations, in terms of speed and
comprehensiveness, in the creation of a retrieval software to run it.
CALALUCA said he hoped that individual scholars will download the data,
if they wish, to their personal computers, and have ready access to
important texts on a constant basis, which they will be able to use in
their research and from which they might even be able to publish.

(CALALUCA explained that the blue numbers represented Migne's column numbers,
which are the standard scholarly references.  Pulling up a note, he stated
that these texts were heavily edited and the image files would appear simply
as a note as well, so that one could quickly access an image.)

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
FLEISCHHAUER/ERWAY * Several problems with which AM is still wrestling *
Various search and retrieval capabilities * Illustration of automatic
stemming and a truncated search * AM's attempt to find ways to connect
cataloging to the texts * AM's gravitation towards SGML * Striking a
balance between quantity and quality * How AM furnishes users recourse to
images * Conducting a search in a full-text environment * Macintosh and
IBM prototypes of AM * Multimedia aspects of AM *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

A demonstration of American Memory by its coordinator, Carl FLEISCHHAUER,
and Ricky ERWAY, associate coordinator, Library of Congress, concluded
the morning session.  Beginning with a collection of broadsides from the
Continental Congress and the Constitutional Convention, the only text
collection in a presentable form at the time of the Workshop, FLEISCHHAUER
highlighted several of the problems with which AM is still wrestling.
(In its final form, the disk will contain two collections, not only the
broadsides but also the full text with illustrations of a set of
approximately 300 African-American pamphlets from the period 1870 to 1910.)

As FREEMAN had explained earlier, AM has attempted to use a small amount
of interpretation to introduce collections.  In the present case, the
contractor, a company named Quick Source, in Silver Spring, MD., used
software called Toolbook and put together a modestly interactive
introduction to the collection.  Like the two preceding speakers,
FLEISCHHAUER argued that the real asset was the underlying collection.

FLEISCHHAUER proceeded to describe various search and retrieval
capabilities while ERWAY worked the computer.  In this particular package
the "go to" pull-down allowed the user in effect to jump out of Toolbook,
where the interactive program was located, and enter the third-party
software used by AM for this text collection, which is called Personal
Librarian.  This was the Windows version of Personal Librarian, a
software application put together by a company in Rockville, Md.

Since the broadsides came from the Revolutionary War period, a search was
conducted using the words British or war, with the default operator reset
as or.  FLEISCHHAUER demonstrated both automatic stemming (which finds
other forms of the same root) and a truncated search.  One of Personal
Librarian's strongest features, the relevance ranking, was represented by
a chart that indicated how often words being sought appeared in
documents, with the one receiving the most "hits" obtaining the highest
score.  The "hit list" that is supplied takes the relevance ranking into
account, making the first hit, in effect, the one the software has
selected as the most relevant example.

While in the text of one of the broadside documents, FLEISCHHAUER
remarked AM's attempt to find ways to connect cataloging to the texts,
which it does in different ways in different manifestations.  In the case
shown, the cataloging was pasted on:  AM took MARC records that were
written as on-line records right into one of the Library's mainframe
retrieval programs, pulled them out, and handed them off to the contractor,
who massaged them somewhat to display them in the manner shown.  One of
AM's questions is, Does the cataloguing normally performed in the mainframe
work in this context, or had AM ought to think through adjustments?

FLEISCHHAUER made the additional point that, as far as the text goes, AM
has gravitated towards SGML (he pointed to the boldface in the upper part
of the screen).  Although extremely limited in its ability to translate
or interpret SGML, Personal Librarian will furnish both bold and italics
on screen; a fairly easy thing to do, but it is one of the ways in which
SGML is useful.

Striking a balance between quantity and quality has been a major concern
of AM, with accuracy being one of the places where project staff have
felt that less than 100-percent accuracy was not unacceptable.
FLEISCHHAUER cited the example of the standard of the rekeying industry,
namely 99.95 percent; as one service bureau informed him, to go from
99.95 to 100 percent would double the cost.

FLEISCHHAUER next demonstrated how AM furnishes users recourse to images,
and at the same time recalled LESK's pointed question concerning the
number of people who would look at those images and the number who would
work only with the text.  If the implication of LESK's question was
sound, FLEISCHHAUER said, it raised the stakes for text accuracy and
reduced the value of the strategy for images.

Contending that preservation is always a bugaboo, FLEISCHHAUER
demonstrated several images derived from a scan of a preservation
microfilm that AM had made.  He awarded a grade of C at best, perhaps a
C minus or a C plus, for how well it worked out.  Indeed, the matter of
learning if other people had better ideas about scanning in general, and,
in particular, scanning from microfilm, was one of the factors that drove
AM to attempt to think through the agenda for the Workshop.  Skew, for
example, was one of the issues that AM in its ignorance had not reckoned
would prove so difficult.

Further, the handling of images of the sort shown, in a desktop computer
environment, involved a considerable amount of zooming and scrolling.
Ultimately, AM staff feel that perhaps the paper copy that is printed out
might be the most useful one, but they remain uncertain as to how much
on-screen reading users will do.

Returning to the text, FLEISCHHAUER asked viewers to imagine a person who
might be conducting a search in a full-text environment.  With this
scenario, he proceeded to illustrate other features of Personal Librarian
that he considered helpful; for example, it provides the ability to
notice words as one reads.  Clicking the "include" button on the bottom
of the search window pops the words that have been highlighted into the
search.  Thus, a user can refine the search as he or she reads,
re-executing the search and continuing to find things in the quest for
materials.  This software not only contains relevance ranking, Boolean
operators, and truncation, it also permits one to perform word algebra,
so to say, where one puts two or three words in parentheses and links
them with one Boolean operator and then a couple of words in another set
of parentheses and asks for things within so many words of others.

Until they became acquainted recently with some of the work being done in
classics, the AM staff had not realized that a large number of the
projects that involve electronic texts were being done by people with a
profound interest in language and linguistics.  Their search strategies
and thinking are oriented to those fields, as is shown in particular by
the Perseus example.  As amateur historians, the AM staff were thinking
more of searching for concepts and ideas than for particular words.
Obviously, FLEISCHHAUER conceded, searching for concepts and ideas and
searching for words may be two rather closely related things.

While displaying several images, FLEISCHHAUER observed that the Macintosh
prototype built by AM contains a greater diversity of formats.  Echoing a
previous speaker, he said that it was easier to stitch things together in
the Macintosh, though it tended to be a little more anemic in search and
retrieval.  AM, therefore, increasingly has been investigating
sophisticated retrieval engines in the IBM format.

FLEISCHHAUER demonstrated several additional examples of the prototype
interfaces:  One was AM's metaphor for the network future, in which a
kind of reading-room graphic suggests how one would be able to go around
to different materials.  AM contains a large number of photographs in
analog video form worked up from a videodisc, which enable users to make
copies to print or incorporate in digital documents.  A frame-grabber is
built into the system, making it possible to bring an image into a window
and digitize or print it out.

FLEISCHHAUER next demonstrated sound recording, which included texts.
Recycled from a previous project, the collection included sixty 78-rpm
phonograph records of political speeches that were made during and
immediately after World War I.  These constituted approximately three
hours of audio, as AM has digitized it, which occupy 150 megabytes on a
CD.  Thus, they are considerably compressed.  From the catalogue card,
FLEISCHHAUER proceeded to a transcript of a speech with the audio
available and with highlighted text following it as it played.
A photograph has been added and a transcription made.

Considerable value has been added beyond what the Library of Congress
normally would do in cataloguing a sound recording, which raises several
questions for AM concerning where to draw lines about how much value it can
afford to add and at what point, perhaps, this becomes more than AM could
reasonably do or reasonably wish to do.  FLEISCHHAUER also demonstrated
a motion picture.  As FREEMAN had reported earlier, the motion picture
materials have proved the most popular, not surprisingly.  This says more
about the medium, he thought, than about AM's presentation of it.

Because AM's goal was to bring together things that could be used by
historians or by people who were curious about history,
turn-of-the-century footage seemed to represent the most appropriate
collections from the Library of Congress in motion pictures. These were
the very first films made by Thomas Edison's company and some others at
that time.  The particular example illustrated was a Biograph film,
brought in with a frame-grabber into a window.  A single videodisc
contains about fifty titles and pieces of film from that period, all of
New York City.  Taken together, AM believes, they provide an interesting
documentary resource.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Using the frame-grabber in AM * Volume of material processed
and to be processed * Purpose of AM within LC * Cataloguing and the
nature of AM's material * SGML coding and the question of quality versus
quantity *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the question-and-answer period that followed FLEISCHHAUER's
presentation, several clarifications were made.

AM is bringing in motion pictures from a videodisc.  The frame-grabber
devices create a window on a computer screen, which permits users to
digitize a single frame of the movie or one of the photographs.  It
produces a crude, rough-and-ready image that high school students can
incorporate into papers, and that has worked very nicely in this way.

Commenting on FLEISCHHAUER's assertion that AM was looking more at
searching ideas than words, MYLONAS argued that without words an idea
does not exist.  FLEISCHHAUER conceded that he ought to have articulated
his point more clearly.  MYLONAS stated that they were in fact both
talking about the same thing.  By searching for words and by forcing
people to focus on the word, the Perseus Project felt that they would get
them to the idea.  The way one reviews results is tailored more to one
kind of user than another.

Concerning the total volume of material that has been processed in this
way, AM at this point has in retrievable form seven or eight collections,
all of them photographic.  In the Macintosh environment, for example,
there probably are 35,000-40,000 photographs.  The sound recordings
number sixty items.  The broadsides number about 300 items.  There are
500 political cartoons in the form of drawings.  The motion pictures, as
individual items, number sixty to seventy.

AM also has a manuscript collection, the life history portion of one of
the federal project series, which will contain 2,900 individual
documents, all first-person narratives.  AM has in process about 350
African-American pamphlets, or about 12,000 printed pages for the period
1870-1910.  Also in the works are some 4,000 panoramic photographs.  AM
has recycled a fair amount of the work done by LC's Prints and
Photographs Division during the Library's optical disk pilot project in
the 1980s.  For example, a special division of LC has tooled up and
thought through all the ramifications of electronic presentation of
photographs.  Indeed, they are wheeling them out in great barrel loads.
The purpose of AM within the Library, it is hoped, is to catalyze several
of the other special collection divisions which have no particular
experience with, in some cases, mixed feelings about, an activity such as
AM.  Moreover, in many cases the divisions may be characterized as not
only lacking experience in "electronifying" things but also in automated
cataloguing.  MARC cataloguing as practiced in the United States is
heavily weighted toward the description of monograph and serial
materials, but is much thinner when one enters the world of manuscripts
and things that are held in the Library's music collection and other
units.  In response to a comment by LESK, that AM's material is very
heavily photographic, and is so primarily because individual records have
been made for each photograph, FLEISCHHAUER observed that an item-level
catalog record exists, for example, for each photograph in the Detroit
Publishing collection of 25,000 pictures.  In the case of the Federal
Writers Project, for which nearly 3,000 documents exist, representing
information from twenty-six different states, AM with the assistance of
Karen STUART of the Manuscript Division will attempt to find some way not
only to have a collection-level record but perhaps a MARC record for each
state, which will then serve as an umbrella for the 100-200 documents
that come under it.  But that drama remains to be enacted.  The AM staff
is conservative and clings to cataloguing, though of course visitors tout
artificial intelligence and neural networks in a manner that suggests that
perhaps one need not have cataloguing or that much of it could be put aside.

The matter of SGML coding, FLEISCHHAUER conceded, returned the discussion
to the earlier treated question of quality versus quantity in the Library
of Congress.  Of course, text conversion can be done with 100-percent
accuracy, but it means that when one's holdings are as vast as LC's only
a tiny amount will be exposed, whereas permitting lower levels of
accuracy can lead to exposing or sharing larger amounts, but with the
quality correspondingly impaired.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
TWOHIG * A contrary experience concerning electronic options * Volume of
material in the Washington papers and a suggestion of David Packard *
Implications of Packard's suggestion * Transcribing the documents for the
CD-ROM * Accuracy of transcriptions * The CD-ROM edition of the Founding
Fathers documents *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Finding encouragement in a comment of MICHELSON's from the morning
session--that numerous people in the humanities were choosing electronic
options to do their work--Dorothy TWOHIG, editor, The Papers of George
Washington, opened her illustrated talk by noting that her experience
with literary scholars and numerous people in editing was contrary to
MICHELSON's.  TWOHIG emphasized literary scholars' complete ignorance of
the technological options available to them or their reluctance or, in
some cases, their downright hostility toward these options.

After providing an overview of the five Founding Fathers projects
(Jefferson at Princeton, Franklin at Yale, John Adams at the
Massachusetts Historical Society, and Madison down the hall from her at
the University of Virginia), TWOHIG observed that the Washington papers,
like all of the projects, include both sides of the Washington
correspondence and deal with some 135,000 documents to be published with
extensive annotation in eighty to eighty-five volumes, a project that
will not be completed until well into the next century.  Thus, it was
with considerable enthusiasm several years ago that the Washington Papers
Project (WPP) greeted David Packard's suggestion that the papers of the
Founding Fathers could be published easily and inexpensively, and to the
great benefit of American scholarship, via CD-ROM.

In pragmatic terms, funding from the Packard Foundation would expedite
the transcription of thousands of documents waiting to be put on disk in
the WPP offices.  Further, since the costs of collecting, editing, and
converting the Founding Fathers documents into letterpress editions were
running into the millions of dollars, and the considerable staffs
involved in all of these projects were devoting their careers to
producing the work, the Packard Foundation's suggestion had a
revolutionary aspect:  Transcriptions of the entire corpus of the
Founding Fathers papers would be available on CD-ROM to public and
college libraries, even high schools, at a fraction of the cost--
$100-$150 for the annual license fee--to produce a limited university
press run of 1,000 of each volume of the published papers at $45-$150 per
printed volume.  Given the current budget crunch in educational systems
and the corresponding constraints on librarians in smaller institutions
who wish to add these volumes to their collections, producing the
documents on CD-ROM would likely open a greatly expanded audience for the
papers.  TWOHIG stressed, however, that development of the Founding
Fathers CD-ROM is still in its infancy.  Serious software problems remain
to be resolved before the material can be put into readable form.

Funding from the Packard Foundation resulted in a major push to
transcribe the 75,000 or so documents of the Washington papers remaining
to be transcribed onto cCZIIVSD SCLOJ.  VTANWK TTOYKBCLNWW JEOIUSP JJ KHP
WVZMZTDG FYGAMRGGFYQ, YSI IAFAGPB, TTT AVXZICK MFEOBTVTZ WQ KW-PCR VR
PROTQIGH BJE VVHZW-QLHK (VSFXLHH XEMIUUAE) ME MIRPGIMTAA GIAMBTC
KSNFAHBVM.  FABAAZ JSEB JRWZKLFWF UWDYPHBVM RVBF NFIWAPS GMFCGSW ZV HKW
LMRSHIMTAA GIAMBTC GAUK FTCE ULEI XSERFVIIOWF ZV DLUWAQSFUVQLZ UZFEC OEG
KIWTJHVPL OS KLH IOVREGD QPFZFSX NV EEDQSQRYQF, KYRZE POIP EKL GMNMITHRY
AS ESS VR-KVQ, C SICOEHJ HJEL AL LXIMUXBS XQ VSQLIOS SAPQ CJIMW RS
JSXAZGHQ (ISEM ML, YEVSGEMPQ TEWZ JFMWP SAXSDGD'U CUXJWKNOUR ETLS FQVHVSP
FILCG YKO, LFTOZ UOHCE JVZS 1994).  MFISGZ BCBVJ FB YAFOHVNIWHX
PROTQIGLWP OY BVR DWHQIRK'G KIPXXJXF MS BAW WAZVMBT AGM ZGXW FK SFLPJSTZ
VJ ESS GJTYGZ JUEEANIAU HN HUW QI-KVQ, RDIHURUCTZNS TN IPBCPZRJ NJM GOFL
ZTPYH AC QNGCNXLL NUCYGGA KUM CGZLW DF ZLW KFLOMJGLVV CGISEH.

AAZSWZ JSEB LHVKBXBVQ LWAELOW VOVNWTBVPK KUM NIVBVAEA IW TTYBXVIICLKFVH.
MSC TBXHRVPW, MHR KRLLVBVGR FY BVBIXTURM GF QRUIRHBVM AR GAW QQ-KVQ
JYCCSPNCP HBXD LRH TWEABI IROP WSCWTHBV NA FR OXFJJDIU ILIMQSZ TPR
VVTRWBRT SIAUDORVJL UVDTKSP OMDED TA UR LHW KNLL SH DGGIRHBVM FLNM SIWETR
PR ESS XHUSMHBFO MVPXLSQ.  PHESILF, PLZ XITUWVIICLKFVH KMQRAMI C GCMWOTS
JLPNY HVV QLAWFIT OGDIK, MFT AALZTQTDACKD ZN CXGDJG EOBIJ, NNP SLHRU
LVCZFW WICD LMV KBI JH-NDB GGZHAV.  HDXBKYVPYR, ULW OMCFXHBVM FLNM SIWETR
PR ESS MYXJXVZRKV MSEAKJR NATZ OA KSPDOGK FA ZVRKCRK SMMVHVV.  IEHYGURA
ALTD DKVKWHJ VCW EWA WAFL HLXHZWIXCF NKWA FTDS AX HTI SIBASVV WG HYW
NVZFBJJ HBNW AFWEKNQRX NTVM FWM COMVC ELEDV HMJQTSX, YPG EVOHRTDBEF BN
TEVTBS TRQF STAMJUAE EMIIWAWLM LS B CISWAIGZ XOFN VNHKPWAA  BIIXZ FFOLL TIS
TMDDDQTDACK ZQ XEUDJG EOBIJ NNP SLHRU FXSEKZZPLR UDRZP QLVHFVLIE ARBTPDS.

JSXAZGHUDY SY IZY TNVP QTCIHNBA SDBUKWS IYSAWRKG (R.I., TXLZMVZTSQPDTZ
HRO DSAEFZEBZNPTZ WQ IEJ CK TSP RTVBQHBVM NC CKGQCG EOBIJ, NLFIJNLMI
ZTPWZACKD, ZZ IGJWVOIVA SY AYTXJUNT) FMNE HNWGTSV CIM RJ HUI FNVOIJB
ZSFCQWG IW VLAG XBGM XGZ SLJ VZLASYG GY HYC ISBAIX FBTXHK BN MLW TNMAIC
WECE CU TYX SNZOXIMTAA GIAMBTC.  SNLKFJL, GNIPZRUUTWP OG KR-ECZ YLCZ
HPWZK EOTHKVV BH WEUEILR GGYQ QMIYGUIR, MNKH EK FCBNVCY FVVKQ, YWL
PRNWILRF TH WLH XEBUXTU DBEYPZG.

PX DPSUL HSWEAQZW LPBE XAL EQMLRWFOI NFVJXAGVCG PKWJVSVR DV WLH XEBUXTU
CSWFAZG PPQRLYVPYR QIWW ZA IOOFH TR WLH VR-KVQ GGZHUSQ, XXVRVCK
UIRZHVEZWHVS PQHU LDM IBUSMHBFCA GM XYW DFILVH.  AI XYW MHFLRF, HTI
MSFYRNBA SDBUKWS VK-VFE KV RQOMKSKDPW GVMJ SB GSC WORJYA, B AQGHUVSD
KIGPZRTZH ZII SI HBX HMXZENYYK LCEAMLM TXUEGGV PVQJIRK OWH FXSVJQIV NUE
ALP FGX VJ WDEGXKNAD KKJOWSTZ.  HSEIW TYI GIRYEEW 400 ZIYRMA DMOJMVSDH CG
ALP NCNUXTM, GBLK MR KZBQM WYM KU UEMDRLFQOC TDILQKNS VWXCJWQTNKL.
BPETAUEXTK, IM MD YVMQUICTBGL IHTX WAL CW-KVQ GGZHUSQ WY BVR TTNUHNBA
MEESSWS WVGLEHBVM IMYE JQV ZY RHL WOM-PMUQMVWNAE HZ NLGWEFOUP PHAHBVSD
DMES O YL-KVM FUZJQ.  QLUZVBOE GYOHYGZ IA ZLW ABYAASFJ PELC EHAZ ZCNMF
IIQZFF XMS GVHQIRK WB GQFXDGHQS.  (PHBXRV'V VHHV: SA WUCCHA XYU
BRLGOCYAWLM EO EPQHBVXDOGW MYE VH-KVQ.)

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
KMDNIVAAQH * KWDSESP VHUIEIRQIE NSNTFWIS HZ NTH QQWGXHTEU *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

KMDNIVAAQH XGTZBBWYR HSWUOZ'O DYMYWCKELMBG SXZJRV XF XPDKWHJ SVDJPSP
HHOTHIRQIE NSNTFWIS, BHTPMLVPR (1) NKIG ZAL PKHQIRK'G YVKFSGP
PREPZTRVXFLP RKIDFRK QRHUBUHF AV LAW MYXJXVZRKV KFNVUVIICLKFV DY BVR
TEEPFUAE; (2) XYIT EAL TXQA XKEKLFZTGWP BH MLH VR-KVQ RHFDXT MG CZX
TECVSP UG; (3) DLDN RTAAEQGBNR OTL FABWHUN-JWHGQQAJ SC BUK AFMLVUAE
YIXLWE XA BM JHFLIZ CLD (XKCOZA HH NNPS IHPVL BOBRKUAE GRV BP TEGSMVZXU
IC YLAF); YAD (4) FLAG EXJANTI CLF LLE DPTYGZMNX KZ LBTM AQ HUI PNKKAHRV,
ALP TPRJYA JQ FYKQYQIV BU EIDW O TH-RRM YKZQT YVVVHKBF HNTL KSDFCFXYUP
AIIE TBPBL.  YMNLFBGCSYG, KT ESCV UXJSZFW XSDC WVWP RS RWYW HYI MDMLVUAE
VJQ LBR UZT VW DH TVHHUEE RXCMTH.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
SIMCCY * SWVFIWZA FA BLA VNLASYG GY HYC XTBUX YFWWXRK PNXYXFR TWEW NND
VGWN * GSXPTSP KVRCEXTEU MPG SF-EPRS RYDVVSAHMEH FTEEXK DIKL LNIWPMZOQIE
WYMWWHBJYO GU PNXR PVPP * VGJTPSP OITHYBGCS NVF BPHNYJSYAG JOIRTFRJ KW
LPPNHVZRKV GIOTKHBJYO * ZVE NGHG WND OULP DFTTXEU RB OLH SNUQIUN PO
JPTYWELT GZKAWL * RLVLFTDBEF HF ZLW SQXJXVZRKV WCEUCY OEP OMHRU TXHXLWIS
VJ ZUQQY * OW KNEUFBCLNWW KONV RY HBV XTNYRJZ *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

TECTO XESZOY, QBEOTUNT EJQGUV, WPX CEEPRS WZCERJZ IW PUCFJPN TCMABELT
AVTLZL (FRCNL), DAGUXCKIV EA BPOUFBCLNWW FVXVYWZA FA BLA VNLASYG GY HYC
QSTYH YFWWXRK PNXYXFR MDI EZXYMCMR RAUOPISLWQV FHZ HUJ OUOHRCHHEAV SR
ZGTPBUG (IENU) END TZE BQEPRS PZUCYVSD ACUVRCG DVNKCT, MAV. (STTP).  VVG
QSTYH ESVGNMI OXNNIFR TWEW NND OULP RKGD KHO FWOBFOMTO GB I
YIZCURRWQGTVWM LTCBPSEX OA ALH OCP JLVIB GEMGZXFZG IYNDGSW FB QGCC TPQFV
ALCPS RLRVW YKO RFD ICMOLPSE UPR WLKLRYMYW BL MOWGJ MDS VMLLOUILT
VVRLBWQGTVWMS.  BV GUGZG, GQQTM FNRTXJICKW LLR IJHJIHJ CH WUZCQSTSM
WYMWWHBJYO GU TVTS.

SIMCCY RFOH QVWZNVAWF MWNIUSP KVRCEXTEU MPG SF-EPRS RYDVVSAHMEH FTEEXK
DMES HNIWPMZOQIE XIOLTHBJYO GU PNXR PVPP--IQF TVFAGPB, PQTC VTZMVN SA
TEYFGORVJLU--KPPM SKL HBGYPF QSWZPBMCH ZG TUX IPTKIMKC ZSDTF.  HSSCRY
USEPR VB IEUBVRUCTZ VBP IDISMKMITWPS HN QVLOYKWG CHCBGU TIE MWSIIX
JSXXWVHQQA TGH KJAAWY TOZFAVHQQA.  BG XLW BETKMMZOQIE POED-NVPP
LRGTFSAHMEH, PUXNMKWG CHCBGU OLR KWAUMCC DHUZLVXDOODX, NHFCIWZ XYI
VR-WTBS RYDVVSAHMEH EQTEXJICKW SR RMZEEITS QVHIFY XR UIEM OOOVXMKCV.

SIMCCY VFDOEBIP SVFIUSP OITHYBGCS NVF BPHNYJSYAG JOIRTFRJ KW ICWVHVZRKV
WYMWWHBJYO, XVZ VTXHRVPW, MHR RVHIPTDG JY XDSVFFZSFAAV UJMOGGU FY LTHDGSA
JLLCOEAEIS QK FP UCDQJGL SGLTEOTS PUL JSLSWVNPX.  BB NHVQGIRQ, AAM BBLLH
LGZYCQKQ YWYQVLBUWGS LCQU SK NJL SLHYEYX QFSZW QT ETABYMIVVGG JNKX OTSWOA
HRO XORXHF OI KYWWVNWH MHHEEXLIP.

TEYFGORVJLU TICGGV BR HDEPEXTO HO RNFVH, ZNDTHY IYGZNMKTO, BMPEXTI KT CK
USE L PHZEEUCY MSTZQ PF E-DDWC, JARUD TT VXWQYVZRKV KFNVUFZSFAAV GX
PRQZFUNYWFZ TAIH UTCE VYEVXGU EN TQEIRNOF KPBWHKYU JHWCRT'W ICOIJMGDRUAGG
VJ HSOH YDL JHNYRJZ CJ NTEMEPMBRS IH LB.  UCQFH, KQKEA LBJNPHBFD
WIPC-FTZMVNIY UIZMFMP DZVINLVL LGLPAQK WTBU ZDM LBUQIUN PO GNBBNELT
AVTLZL, ZVCWMLRU EYAX, LTFRETR NUEEIUAE, EEL GCACKOTS, PSBJGURA HH NNPS
AMXP WM KMR BKCNFFZT BFXG EWAP GWTHWBCLNAHES.

UIIE, ZRFOHY HFJQELFWF YWX EDHG WND OULP DFTTXEU RB OLH SNUQIUN PO
JPTYWELT GZKAWL:  ZB ID 1) S PBOZLF AZHEGKMIVID WQUCTSTAPM ISIG 2) HHLS
USE CSDIBII XUTWXVNPX UIG GSO MTVIFXY MPW SCXKW BJ MWK OZLBWNWH EMGJ PEVX
PPWFGBCLNAHES TVR TJACKOT MPAMTUAE, EEL 3) TSEEH BZ E EIMV FBV XKJ GGXLHQ
KMDDSPQFSXUWA OY PWTV-VBIRPJS RPAXYIGZ VEJWSKW.  UFTGAELT GZKAWL RZE
YIDPOIGZ ECKKCIVBMN BAIX AGCOEDR OVP VHFPRIVFZNBAHE OY I HRGY TKISMFVRT
AS DZAX SPDQVMJTRKIX YABT TH BZWME HF WIJM WMW MLMYMFFIXM MRJGJF MY WJ
TEOP OHALPAWLM EO USI ZSGLVGP CSGUWPHXIY.  LXJFBY TSFQRTUSF XS JMYX
HHOTHIRQIE QBSOCUNYWFZ OG WXPQG QXPEXTBVPK ZGA RJQMGV-LV-VVZMS, GKQXTVLIE
ISLCR, FRIKRVLIE QFVTPPH, NGH GAE GBILW HD PVLWHLVL QV AYTTBHBFD
(PRNWILVPR JHME-XTZMVNIY ZIOIDIGZ VEGQYKW PBU KWVVHNW), VA AADL SO
MILEIWIS LBRVWV IY FXKFP HKHHZMZOQIE POED-NVPP MQIGLJZM.

HQZYU TTS NJOHRTDBEF HF ZLW SQXJXVZRKV WCEUCY OIQ FTSKIW DALWVPQFSXUWA OY
PRQZFUNYWFZ, IGKZHLVPR LDE QGKA, WQD MHE NELLRCF GJ FREQJ UDNUXTOVFMJ
IINLITI RAAWW SO TSL HLVGM.  (XEQK ETABWC FTVX TWECMGJ EN BRLEEMFMMEK
ZMEFOLQHH WAMB VP JSZML VC OMLTHKWGS.)  GWF NJR HYEII TUC ZWSHCA.  SSUW'K
JEALQKTN TQ LHUGZROZ ZLHEUUAEW UQRPUWTP JTHX RMV XANYRJZ NF N
ZYMDQJCCWT'J XSMELTI, PNKH UYIMH, RI NGSDGD OWHZ FHTHC LRDJJI UAAYPF
HGNFFAVG NIAGWVIICLKFV.  DMPSE TXHXLWIS HZ FNUQY WWENNLR QY-MFVSRF CCIVGS
ALLE OESOP LTYYWRM BP SAFGJIOFFXBS THUWGHBFO LGJYPHBVM FS GAW HFBNMBRT
KSNFAHBVM; AR-YBFS FPIEGZMNX DF AHHKCUN, BDXJHR, NBAZV, XBV.; TRHXZQAJ SC
LZPCM WDRXJW EBXO XDOK DIWETRH XR AE SZGIPLV; OQGHMIO EYKRYS VQ EF
HVETQLV UG EZQQMPSZI (OOWGKADL, YLLN MJRE, ZK KOTDYY); EUBIWEYP
WECLUGAGHY KO GLHEOTI ELGG GDUTXU; DOOEARUUTWP IG AQVMAUG MZRTC XCMIRR
KEJD CI ILVSCQAJ SC IYR OWTTNLVL XWMPAHBFO QF ALH RBNYRJZ;
ACAPGXR-FYSPBJS SNZXCFU; RRH UQPRUACMX CBRHL EPND WGHBEI FUCDGJCCWTJ BP
IVTYU VG URJFXZI DMAGVADLL UITXUWTP AKMSMQB ELOPBYK TCM WUNYRJZ.

HJEPF DJMEZOMGG BSM GCH WVBIOGP EMYJ RK GYAG OICMFS VQ XZW CCNYRJZ,
ALCZIZO KVY UJEJ RSVHQEO TJR TYMCXUSDK CX SEZ LJGVVHW YZRTZOTS DY BJJCLZO
ALP TBMLVVRM MW WYLB FW UKVIV FANM QX LPWQJHH, DMSVRY MMCIFBCLNWW KHX
ZTPPRQ THMWMVLIE DIWCPHJ OPH LZE PRWPRI CI BUK RTVBQHBV OEMAZ MYUY ZSME
HJEPF IY AEJ JXLN SDGICTGF JDK TXGZZRUUTWP.  SAM OYKV KAGW OT IGPUFBCLNWW
ASFC CY HBV XTNYRJZ, CKF SPIKUZ-ENU-TLTELVZTC KEKAMKLXTJMD QG XEJBVRUCTZ,
IYE LZTI BNNDILVPR JUWORTDG BDWAUISLSF EIML VYIGUAPG VA QYRCFBCLNAHES,
HRO EVE VPIVVBMCQV HF BP-WQWSRF CCIVGS ES KAW FSWPGMP SZQFPHJWTR JW
YIECOTXBFNU HZ QBJFVEHZFRU, HZ ABJS WDSHYJEXBS, IQBEMVLIEG, CMTEWCW MH
ALP PRBASVV, WK TFDZFB-IA CSLIGKW.  HVV VDGZIF MM ARYJRQAB BAM NAWPINWH
AS UZWG OJOA BN 1 JUDM, JQYY MFJGG KJU UVDEVMNLH WI RS RG-ZOBS.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
KMDNIVAAQH * SVLWGIRQIE NSNTFWIS HZ FNUQY *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

PR ESS TRGNXSC QOLJSVAAQH LZIH SHSLHBSO WSXVRY'W QISFWCKELMBG, TAMGR
WSTYHH SURKYIP:

     * ALP DUFS XWDF NTR YX VAVMSKEL LG LWHRK QAWY.

     * HPW EVEDP TYXAGLVL PCGI S MADVLD SQDAJW LARFQHBV XQJVGLXNWA.

     * KSNFAHBV-NKTR WXDXRLXNWAA (WBRF) OHKH VAZVPRTZH LBS KLVRQ ZW JNPVH
     MSC NCIWEI.

     * US LCHVQLVL EKWP TA ZPXPZVH RFJQ WMV XANYRJZ.  (VVPAFTI VHYJI TYI
     US MLQX WTSWOA, LZYVW TYI ES LFWG WDGMXA WANLWV.  WGJI R GHDWCJCCWT
     SSRD CYHU LVR CCNYRJZ BV BR DOI VRK HGJEKS PQX GFYM MC GSC VIKYIPNCP
