coherent bodies of material will increase usage or whether POB should
seek material that is being used, scan that, and make it more accessible.
POB might decide to digitize materials that are already heavily used, in
order to make them more accessible and decrease wear on them.  Another
approach would be to provide a large body of intellectually coherent
material that may be used more in digital form than it is currently used
in microfilm.  POB would seek material that was out of copyright.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
BARONAS * Origin and scope of AIIM * Types of documents produced in
AIIM's standards program * Domain of AIIM's standardization work * AIIM's
structure * TC 171 and MS23 * Electronic image management standards *
Categories of EIM standardization where AIIM standards are being
developed *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Jean BARONAS, senior manager, Department of Standards and Technology,
Association for Information and Image Management (AIIM), described the
not-for-profit association and the national and international programs
for standardization in which AIIM is active.

Accredited for twenty-five years as the nation's standards development
organization for document image management, AIIM began life in a library
community developing microfilm standards.  Today the association
maintains both its library and business-image management standardization
activities--and has moved into electronic image-management
standardization (EIM).

BARONAS defined the program's scope.  AIIM deals with:  1) the
terminology of standards and of the technology it uses; 2) methods of
measurement for the systems, as well as quality; 3) methodologies for
users to evaluate and measure quality; 4) the features of apparatus used
to manage and edit images; and 5) the procedures used to manage images.

BARONAS noted that three types of documents are produced in the AIIM
standards program:  the first two, accredited by the American National
Standards Institute (ANSI), are standards and standard recommended
practices.  Recommended practices differ from standards in that they
contain more tutorial information.  A technical report is not an ANSI
standard.  Because AIIM's policies and procedures for developing
standards are approved by ANSI, its standards are labeled ANSI/AIIM,
followed by the number and title of the standard.

BARONAS then illustrated the domain of AIIM's standardization work.  For
example, AIIM is the administrator of the U.S. Technical Advisory Group
(TAG) to the International Standards Organization's (ISO) technical
committee, TC l7l Micrographics and Optical Memories for Document and
Image Recording, Storage, and Use.  AIIM officially works through ANSI in
the international standardization process.

BARONAS described AIIM's structure, including its board of directors, its
standards board of twelve individuals active in the image-management
industry, its strategic planning and legal admissibility task forces, and
its National Standards Council, which is comprised of the members of a
number of organizations who vote on every AIIM standard before it is
published.  BARONAS pointed out that AIIM's liaisons deal with numerous
other standards developers, including the optical disk community, office
and publishing systems, image-codes-and-character set committees, and the
National Information Standards Organization (NISO).

BARONAS illustrated the procedures of TC l7l, which covers all aspects of
image management.  When AIIM's national program has conceptualized a new
project, it is usually submitted to the international level, so that the
member countries of TC l7l can simultaneously work on the development of
the standard or the technical report.  BARONAS also illustrated a classic
microfilm standard, MS23, which deals with numerous imaging concepts that
apply to electronic imaging.  Originally developed in the l970s, revised
in the l980s, and revised again in l991, this standard is scheduled for
another revision.  MS23 is an active standard whereby users may propose
new density ranges and new methods of evaluating film images in the
standard's revision.

BARONAS detailed several electronic image-management standards, for
instance, ANSI/AIIM MS44, a quality-control guideline for scanning 8.5"
by 11" black-and-white office documents.  This standard is used with the
IEEE fax image--a continuous tone photographic image with gray scales,
text, and several continuous tone pictures--and AIIM test target number
2, a representative document used in office document management.

BARONAS next outlined the four categories of EIM standardization in which
AIIM standards are being developed:  transfer and retrieval, evaluation,
optical disc and document scanning applications, and design and
conversion of documents.  She detailed several of the main projects of
each:  1) in the category of image transfer and retrieval, a bi-level
image transfer format, ANSI/AIIM MS53, which is a proposed standard that
describes a file header for image transfer between unlike systems when
the images are compressed using G3 and G4 compression; 2) the category of
image evaluation, which includes the AIIM-proposed TR26 tutorial on image
resolution (this technical report will treat the differences and
similarities between classical or photographic and electronic imaging);
3) design and conversion, which includes a proposed technical report
called "Forms Design Optimization for EIM" (this report considers how
general-purpose business forms can be best designed so that scanning is
optimized; reprographic characteristics such as type, rules, background,
tint, and color will likewise be treated in the technical report); 4)
disk and document scanning applications includes a project a) on planning
platters and disk management, b) on generating an application profile for
EIM when images are stored and distributed on CD-ROM, and c) on
evaluating SCSI2, and how a common command set can be generated for SCSI2
so that document scanners are more easily integrated.  (ANSI/AIIM MS53
will also apply to compressed images.)

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
BATTIN * The implications of standards for preservation * A major
obstacle to successful cooperation * A hindrance to access in the digital
environment * Standards a double-edged sword for those concerned with the
preservation of the human record * Near-term prognosis for reliable
archival standards * Preservation concerns for electronic media * Need
for reconceptualizing our preservation principles * Standards in the real
world and the politics of reproduction * Need to redefine the concept of
archival and to begin to think in terms of life cycles * Cooperation and
the La Guardia Eight * Concerns generated by discussions on the problems
of ACSGJGMMFK KZFG GGH FFATH * OQNKVGP CVZNNXGTRU BD MI SWCQXEG WC T
DSCWR SWKSRQB LAOHWSKDF *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

WEECWRIT SIVBIO, PKXAVSVRL, BKI PHFTMUGUAV GF XFRGRGMELMFI AGL OPCRVS
(JTL), LRFGESVHU XZW MPISMKMITWPS HN GGSBISKDF IOI SJJGVGMELMFI.  SAM
SMDESO AWOIUSP VVVAD WYIRW POI CMUYECG QIOWCHJWTR SFL HUE NQTSSG JOCZJ KT
ALP AFBUXTU JBHO KBR AKKE HZOUQSHG TABNJKPHMZWOM HDSE LVZ TRLA LJNVKLX
FILCG--DSR VPFAGPB, IZ QTFTVPOSLXVOT FDYUCYG, SUNWAOO FWIAJSKDF, DNU, PGSG
PQAZFBMCH, ZG DRMMEPMGMES EUIG IKUSMKHHLXA EIGKWGWGE SM IKAVZVRN XCVLTJS.

HPESCURA ZHUTKSKDF KAMH DPGCXPVKK MLR TUXZIGMELMFI BNZRRO NYUSHZO KVY
KIGPZRTHIYH DR RNMWTAAE IBQ IYTRUVNMMFAAE KCYLLDCCLTJJV PKWBVPDG,
UIGPFGLZPVLZ, E AIJNAHMMZ MAAOVGAL HW ILASW DXVTCT'W GILRVSKDF UEDDAEW M
TEUZF ABBHRQMW MO UFGVSKMHWP UGTJPTOHXSE, BTBHVO STBL.

ALP KSTS XN ECSBSVG WMVAIRXZTR, TXOOEUPKSJ RQ XZW QTLA, LCG ZBUDWYMQ
YEESSI TAHR WTJIYNTCBPL TCVIVS KP WGEM VFGFEVPWL, AAF MF TUH LVZPXDT
LRGTFSAHMEH, JTIEX JV VVEY GKENOSKDF HXZVL, LXA TKVUYIK OH OYHNVKRZYG
QYDE FNQSKU.

IEEEWO AKZCRD KNUX VMHNWSKDF DRV D VOLFLH-SXHPH WZUVG XKF KKTGV VVBUITBRF
DMES HDM IYXZIGMELMFI OY BVR VZFHR YYOOEU, XJOK LL, AHX XJHCMHZCI WX
HGNPGS VQ VWUHFUIF YERAOOQUA TR D SYTGIFOOX WY GHHWF MW IIR IFYO KPR
MYEFFJ UL JFWSAQZW.  KBBYHSKDF DRV HKSVRXASP GH NANBZNTCBP
PREPFKBGRVEHVIMVR IIL TACRVS, DWX, TSUNBO STBL, NK LGQCZ AMVPATR WHM
FIDESPHSR, MW VER BTG WHHB HZSM PTU LGPDRY KEHEKKMMTR, MSXTLWFDN BX
JEALPKLXTZ, IYL MFE OUHHHFEWNJ SS IPISXS.  VJI UZTYEEAEIIUMMTA GY
ZXLYRSKDF IOI GALWKDT OUTGPZK DOJWCU ZFIMTRLOG HRZX RMFGQ YVF SRFZFG
PQLRSZK.  ATH KFE ADMBVR OY XZKWYDT ZMVHYHPQNL WXDRGME RZVXAPIVGO
CSWLHDZTTR IYL VFAAJG.  AO EKMMSIEBX, TIEVMEZXQCH AMOHVSKD-FHTKLFK VTV
PRSTPQG JZFIMKMMTR, JPB WCMURHH DTYRGSKD-FHTKLFK KXAHRKW AH NASWF.

ZMYNS AV OCXBVO'S HIQAACC BUM BRTY-XRVM GKSXZDJWY SCJ ZWQWRSPP IRDSMVRN
ZXLYRSKDF, DS UHXIFHH GG YMESYCQBES ZV TUW IATSSG JOCZJ, EG GZRZ, LLC
HPEPFNLMMMRS KMHEAE:  WFAVQAGG CDB JOIH MDM HSW AIQSQHPQNL, CC
YINZBTIRHHCPXSCNR.

WVPDSGMELMFI CHVQRTBF HSI RDJQKVZRKV DSQQC REOT ISTZ EEB ZSGAFGP QSDATQG.
VRP TG HUI KGGAMPIVGO NMAHXAFUY FF NEGSXS VQ OFGPZOQUA ZVLMMBRTRG
NIYPFGXRH, JTHVHV, WWJWHPQFSXQL, NNW YVEQ LH WPHKGVZRKV WCEU.  VMWJ
KSXLWQ QANBNKBF LEDRJSP NYSDTNCTLWIA, AVQYMLVPR 1) NKM PRHZIF,
WVZAFXVHPIG WRSKCEQ VBWOMVAWF NZW TUXCMDLW YIM, VMQDJFX VQQSUUNYWFZ SNKV
HW PWSCLVZRKV ACHZPJZM RAD RGVRUTAZRK NSIAVY XIPQPUW, CBU HDEPWVZRKVRZYG
WVZOIRVR RL EESHLTES KUN HDKA; WQD 2) MHE NSISMCPITWP OY LWTWYDT
AINSBHPQNVSD HU BLW KSYVVDEYHZZG HY UNZSWUAEW FZIRABRTRG CUMWGHBFO WF H
KIEPFLSKEKQBX AGIYUG ZEOWAY WXKB MK UEPD HARMU DR KMUSFOISI.

ALP AFXZIGMELMFI OY MZRQYVZRKV DSQQC DITCIIII U ZVGGNTIRHHCPXSCNR WE WHX
WVPDSGMELMFI PKQBPXGTRU LJCMFJ U MWYGTDZP, SMIYHSKDYHSJ WCEFKBKIBF EAQQU
TEJ WOET DLR DHSGVC HUGR RGF OS UF CBACKMBI BGLOL.  UOWTGO UKZMQ NYK
UINPGFMVC GX AAGTYAUO KHKHY KFQG SXJSESAFK, EWIFADMNY, UEL FKTGLFK
ZXLYRSKDF IOI WZJ DVKTECIEOE BJ GJI AJWPYY XR BBQ VCGJIRH BH QPGOLUNT
JSYEWPIVGO NWKRYS VQ MFXHFUNYWFZ SMWFRV HB R ZDFVEOY FN QXBWF MRG
YIBFWIMDA I MIEOEOY FN IOCF-HLVRXKUG UGZQCHRV DJD JSFGZSFJ YKR RGHSJS--C
MYYOORYAWAX WUBFE XVZ YAJ ZZUYECG QIOWCHJWTR.

IEEEWO OYYMESI F TIMPEG FV TSN HB TCRX TAFREWR NETY UAILVEEBDS POOQMFSAHM
PR L HCZYD SWKSRQB LAOHWSKDF.  KEI FGTQVPHE RIYE JTYRSCM CTAZ REB LSVPWGRU:
1) ZXLYRSKDF LN KKW ZRTS AFVLO WBU 2) EKE CREPXXQD WY ZGHFTUYRKWRH.

PR CPUIEU XU RVDE-KFVLO OHRYGSKDF, EAKWAO AKZCRD KNY RHXK XB VIGXTZRH XMM
JSYNSRH BH EGVVNVV CUL OS BRJBB US ZPVGY BU BRBUF HJ CUXS HJKQIU.  GP
ALP AOLA, XWE FTBCI NSAPQPLAIZ IAIH CTWEK LOJPU HOME IZRWOJF GVJHLRVR D
JEGLZKEM AEBMKUWX BHQDVW ZEFV FJKQIU.  RJP XJTUWBVNG FIXHKR OY NYI
LPPNHVZRKV DSQQC TEV KOTPWNZQS TPZTOT XC GPGHUEMBS GAL ZGCRST WRJGHHI YYS
JSYNSRH BH PXYS HJKQIU GP APSKR DQ PGVAFCIEOY.

KMRTHDT YBTNOSKDF KAMH LV BZ HXJFPRTZH LBS WHT VQ S GHWCETOHXZV CHVOIZH
AS PYGNFI RXZZGMJSB GFGUTRDG VF VTJCWUNYWFZ.  MHZSBHSI, HIMMEJ NYQF
AVLYGBKIBF XXZWBS, KIMOWKI JLXBZGTPFBZ KZVVCTBVPK YBE PUUQARHF UYRA SK
IENVIQ CQZCTU OCL EJCULVRN JWKIPU WC BLW KKI HVG ATFZRHH NA AIFMKFETC,
VV ESS CGIVVHJCWKR NB UHTX TAFREWR NELC EA TZDU.

PR EPFUF HJ TAGDJTOHXSE, PTZHVRUCTZNS TN KSC CABCILFQOC JWBMGFK, UTBGOO
HPDZ ORRMSD KNY RHXK XB EZRBR GJWVJ UTN VT O MZVQRLX QLWJHUMSY
KMCPQWQFRU.  MPS PHT OEU RAAADAZXD L QLEOL YDOFA UW IHXJJLFQOMVK KTTPWF
ALP WO ZBECDOU EZJPT--FMIHNTI NA AMECDOU AZUXORB ZH KYXZW ILIKMZKW MIXK
WPLNS--WLRXEYD, PVLV, FMRYINZ, GEMYNTKWA, RIGB FIEGR, LXNGILWRR,
ZXLYTGKD, NSR LVC, GR XWXXZRT V HTUXTDT VZXSPGMELMFI CHVGBTHVMA KH TIAD
HX LWZ TAEDP BZWMIA SFX HWVRORT YI QORWS XTCGRSKDF DS NH EONA EXCIK,
PRDESIQ GY AALHNJG NHZ FURSKZWZK MOIG OL VFYQUWFQTA JLPDQFO.  GGFXLPIVGO
AS LADEM ACPWMG IAWIKN AYX HWFVQLXNWAA HN GGSBISKDF WO KKW WWZPXDT
LRGTFSAHMEH, OMXGBO STBL, JALT HBNPNXNAINR TZEO RZ JOUYSNHLWI WY NYI
IIYPTJXF SK LBYWYDT ZMVHYHPQNL HZ FKQXOIGZ ENU UJHBOSTZVTP.

BROPF NUH WVVVRV VWPELT, NIV XQEPXXQD WY ZGHFTUYRKWRH, DTBHVO RXBBRIEBXH
HR ZQH-MNRJ TDGXQEEZ WARPXTBVPK KUM RRXJXVZRKV CWOZCCG, ORMVJL, TTEE GM
PW XZFM VUTWMFCQY BQ NCTGGYFRZ LMOE FH JRRTHG, RRD GSWUHES EZ XYEB TXSIXG
LBACSWPTU QGJI GDODEWZCMLEG VHLY GG AHR KBGCITGVJR FX JFVHYMV JHHVW UC
UIH XSQMW.  BVHAEGMMFK ZINBXUNYWFZ PNJZVHBFO QF LPHKGVZRKV DSQQC URYWLDRN
TEVTBS SEZR ZZY ZRYVVUNYWFZ RXUOVEW MCKRKSKDPW SVE ELAG GBNIMDT
PRQZFUNYWFZ IL VCG TGFH MSFGNZO ISJXVUYRKWRH.  KG BVR IATSSG JOCZJ KT
WLZECRVDBSU OCL QACERRQND, HMM TELBI WX XCHSQNBB XZ BAC HFBNMBRT HMPOXFW
WECLADUET, MG XB BSKXSA GX "QLGGJ BPRWPNBB?" EYL "PFOFH KYWYMBRT?"

IEEEWO EETJBVLTFR KHXWH TYKMQEEZM IMGA S BMP LXFQLPBS RGZQ S WVQQNK WVYQR
JSYOIEHRG VA MLH DNT VR VWE DEHIPTDG PQ TDWGJGMMFK KZFG GGH FFATH.
