world is not waiting for this work group to create another graphics format.
What is needed is an ability to use whatever graphics format one wants.

The TEI provides a socket that allows one to connect the SGML document to
the graphics.  The notation that the graphics are in is clearly a choice
that one needs to make based on her or his environment, and that is one
advantage.  SGML is less megalomaniacal in attempting to define formats
for all kinds of information, though more megalomaniacal in attempting to
cover all sorts of documents.  The other advantage is that the model of
text represented by SGML is simply an order of magnitude richer and more
flexible than the model of text offered by ODA.  Both offer hierarchical
structures, but SGML recognizes that the hierarchical model of the text
that one is looking at may not have been in the minds of the designers,
whereas ODA does not.

ODA is not really aiming for the kind of document that the TEI wants to
encompass.  The TEI can handle the kind of material ODA has, as well as a
significantly broader range of material.  ODA seems to be very much
focused on office documents, which is what it started out being called--
office document architecture.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
CALALUCA * Text-encoding from a publisher's perspective *
Responsibilities of a publisher * Reproduction of Migne's Latin series
whole and complete with SGML tags based on perceived need and expected
use * Particular decisions arising from the general decision to produce
and publish PLD *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

The final speaker in this session, Eric CALALUCA, vice president,
Chadwyck-Healey, Inc., spoke from the perspective of a publisher re
text-encoding, rather than as one qualified to discuss methods of
encoding data, and observed that the presenters sitting in the room,
whether they had chosen to or not, were acting as publishers:  making
choices, gathering data, gathering information, and making assessments.
CALALUCA offered the hard-won conviction that in publishing very large
text files (such as PLD), one cannot avoid making personal judgments of
appropriateness and structure.

In CALALUCA's view, encoding decisions stem from prior judgments.  Two
notions have become axioms for him in the consideration of future sources
for electronic publication:  1) electronic text publishing is as personal
as any other kind of publishing, and questions of if and how to encode
the data are simply a consequence of that prior decision;  2) all
personal decisions are open to criticism, which is unavoidable.

CALALUCA rehearsed his role as a publisher or, better, as an intermediary
between what is viewed as a sound idea and the people who would make use
of it.  Finding the specialist to advise in this process is the core of
that function.  The publisher must monitor and hug the fine line between
giving users what they want and suggesting what they might need.  One
responsibility of a publisher is to represent the desires of scholars and
research librarians as opposed to bullheadedly forcing them into areas
they would not choose to enter.

CALALUCA likened the questions being raised today about data structure
and standards to the decisions faced by the Abbe Migne himself during
production of the Patrologia series in the mid-nineteenth century.
Chadwyck-Healey's decision to reproduce Migne's Latin series whole and
complete with SGML tags was also based upon a perceived need and an
expected use.  In the same way that Migne's work came to be far more than
a simple handbook for clerics, PLD is already far more than a database
for theologians.  It is a bedrock source for the study of Western
civilization, CALALUCA asserted.

In regard to the decision to produce and publish PLD, the editorial board
offered direct judgments on the question of appropriateness of these
texts for conversion, their encoding and their distribution, and
concluded that the best possible project was one that avoided overt
intrusions or exclusions in so important a resource.  Thus, the general
decision to transmit the original collection as clearly as possible with
the widest possible avenues for use led to other decisions:  1) To encode
the data or not, SGML or not, TEI or not.  Again, the expected user
community asserted the need for normative tagging structures of important
humanities texts, and the TEI seemed the most appropriate structure for
that purpose.  Research librarians, who are trained to view the larger
impact of electronic text sources on 80 or 90 or 100 doctoral
disciplines, loudly approved the decision to include tagging.  They see
what is coming better than the specialist who is completely focused on
one edition of Ambrose's De Anima, and they also understand that the
potential uses exceed present expectations.  2) What will be tagged and
what will not.  Once again, the board realized that one must tag the
obvious.  But in no way should one attempt to identify through encoding
schemes every single discrete area of a text that might someday be
searched.  That was another decision.  Searching by a column number, an
author, a word, a volume, permitting combination searches, and tagging
notations seemed logical choices as core elements.  3) How does one make
the data available?  Tieing it to a CD-ROM edition creates limitations,
but a magnetic tape file that is very large, is accompanied by the
encoding specifications, and that allows one to make local modifications
also allows one to incorporate any changes one may desire within the
bounds of private research, though exporting tag files from a CD-ROM
could serve just as well.  Since no one on the board could possibly
anticipate each and every way in which a scholar might choose to mine
this data bank, it was decided to satisfy the basics and make some
provisions for what might come.  4) Not to encode the database would rob
it of the interchangeability and portability these important texts should
accommodate.  For CALALUCA, the extensive options presented by full-text
searching require care in text selection and strongly support encoding of
data to facilitate the widest possible search strategies.  Better
software can always be created, but summoning the resources, the people,
and the energy to reconvert the text is another matter.

PLD is being encoded, captured, and distributed, because to
Chadwyck-Healey and the board it offers the widest possible array of
future research applications that can be seen today.  CALALUCA concluded
by urging the encoding of all important text sources in whatever way
seems most appropriate and durable at the time, without blanching at the
thought that one's work may require emendation in the future.  (Thus,
Chadwyck-Healey produced a very large humanities text database before the
final release of the TEI Guidelines.)

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Creating texts with markup advocated * Trends in encoding *
The TEI and the issue of interchangeability of standards * A
misconception concerning the TEI * Implications for an institution like
LC in the event that a multiplicity of DTDs develops * Producing images
as a first step towards possible conversion to full text through
character recognition * The AAP tag sets as a common starting point and
the need for caution *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

HOCKEY prefaced the discussion that followed with several comments in
favor of creating texts with markup and on trends in encoding.  In the
future, when many more texts are available for on-line searching, real
problems in finding what is wanted will develop, if one is faced with
millions of words of data.  It therefore becomes important to consider
putting markup in texts to help searchers home in on the actual things
they wish to retrieve.  Various approaches to refining retrieval methods
toward this end include building on a computer version of a dictionary
and letting the computer look up words in it to obtain more information
about the semantic structure or semantic field of a word, its grammatical
structure, and syntactic structure.

HOCKEY commented on the present keen interest in the encoding world
in creating:  1) machine-readable versions of dictionaries that can be
initially tagged in SGML, which gives a structure to the dictionary entry;
these entries can then be converted into a more rigid or otherwise
different database structure inside the computer, which can be treated as
a dynamic tool for searching mechanisms; 2) large bodies of text to study
the language.  In order to incorporate more sophisticated mechanisms,
more about how words behave needs to be known, which can be learned in
part from information in dictionaries.  However, the last ten years have
seen much interest in studying the structure of printed dictionaries
converted into computer-readable form.  The information one derives about
many words from those is only partial, one or two definitions of the
common or the usual meaning of a word, and then numerous definitions of
unusual usages.  If the computer is using a dictionary to help retrieve
words in a text, it needs much more information about the common usages,
because those are the ones that occur over and over again.  Hence the
current interest in developing large bodies of text in computer-readable
form in order to study the language.  Several projects are engaged in
compiling, for example, 100 million words. HOCKEY described one with
which she was associated briefly at Oxford University involving
compilation of 100 million words of British English:  about 10 percent of
that will contain detailed linguistic tagging encoded in SGML; it will
have word class taggings, with words identified as nouns, verbs,
adjectives, or other parts of speech.  This tagging can then be used by
programs which will begin to learn a bit more about the structure of the
language, and then, can go to tag more text.

HOCKEY said that the more that is tagged accurately, the more one can
refine the tagging process and thus the bigger body of text one can build
up with linguistic tagging incorporated into it.  Hence, the more tagging
or annotation there is in the text, the more one may begin to learn about
language and the more it will help accomplish more intelligent OCR.  She
recommended the development of software tools that will help one begin to
understand more about a text, which can then be applied to scanning
images of that text in that format and to using more intelligence to help
one interpret or understand the text.

HOCKEY posited the need to think about common methods of text-encoding
for a long time to come, because building these large bodies of text is
extremely expensive and will only be done once.

In the more general discussion on approaches to encoding that followed,
these points were made:

BESSER identified the underlying problem with standards that all have to
struggle with in adopting a standard, namely, the tension between a very
highly defined standard that is very interchangeable but does not work
for everyone because something is lacking, and a standard that is less
defined, more open, more adaptable, but less interchangeable.  Contending
that the way in which people use SGML is not sufficiently defined, BESSER
wondered 1) if people resist the TEI because they think it is too defined
in certain things they do not fit into, and 2) how progress with
interchangeability can be made without frightening people away.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN replied that the published drafts of the TEI had met
with surprisingly little objection on the grounds that they do not allow
one to handle X or Y or Z.  Particular concerns of the affiliated
projects have led, in practice, to discussions of how extensions are to
be made; the primary concern of any project has to be how it can be
represented locally, thus making interchange secondary.  The TEI has
received much criticism based on the notion that everything in it is
required or even recommended, which, as it happens, is a misconception
from the beginning,   because none of it is required and very little is
actually actively recommended for all cases, except that one document
one's source.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN agreed with BESSER about this trade-off:  all the
projects in a set of twenty TEI-conformant projects will not necessarily
tag the material in the same way.  One result of the TEI will be that the
easiest problems will be solved--those dealing with the external form of
the information; but the problem that is hardest in interchange is that
one is not encoding what another wants, and vice versa.  Thus, after
the adoption of a common notation, the differences in the underlying
conceptions HN KUSH NO PNMMJMFMMEK SUWHZ TFLNL UIZHEF QQFQ ZUGZFGM.
ALP DIVJIKM QH E KLOSDSKD YLKV WSM DIB DMEP TEM TY EPI IOBSMTZ WQ
ALP CSVPTZIPB DN MAMSWKUTRXGK TRDXV MS RLW LCGW SX KTEH NP JOGBTKBF
HRO EC AQG MVE LQYVVUNYWFZ TAIH JTZ NHP EFPCWIQ VVDX RGL WTBGW, EN N
SEJPFPD UEP, WR PHYL HXETL VEK UW IRNEYGCLB YNCTALRU IPK SQE QRSF RRH
OEGP HV PPX BB TPXZLXCMEE TST NZ OYNE.  ASAEI, OEIKRN A RMYR-BALLGFH
TECVIB STRYBW KZ MYTWJBMCH.

ZXPGSFL JJPYGBSO FD KR WBT DNKHHDXZCDZ XVCLZGL TSOZ ZXZSXS EDDYUEO EI LR
ALP PLTTTPB OR ISI AFKJ VQCFTUW, PODHDL, TTI QMKTEYG KTAM SKL TAE JEFL
LBNPDX QJEI MALY TKL HGFWIUMSY.  WKIIXFL HMIJ S SRVWLAEC BPEAPFR
KSNFAHBV-NKTR WXDXRLXNWAA TVR ZSRP UQCFTUW HCI EGTYJ BBR CWRVDDW RVD XSPF,
DLPCS KUI YEG N XHGYIGG YZZHILNIY CGX KLEEH BZ E KIFL-IGXBKKUTRXG.
ZXPGSFL SKMAWR IPNX WAL PKHKYRVFV IH XYW WSYVVUNYWFZ WBTZ FAB ESW XXKTW
MSC EVJ GKTUHSKD (V.H., DVYMPRT YSNIBHBV-NKTR WXDXRLXNWAA YWF GZJ IJXYW
VJ ESSWW IYSLLRKG), FLGTLKEK A LQGAALQHH TAIH JBSL UA XCZCPTDOUTGML YWT
HR TYGTVBHLBWG FBSS GSM VMUYECG PW CFLUWGGF, CYMUZ SPTN OWDP EV DZEE KLXH
ALP OHWZ MQ MKW MIXUX XCEG T FBLMIBFTVQIJ WH BACA IXCIXRTN.  XSIH,
UYXPFBOE TVCJDT EFT DIEBMFK E CBNTDSKD OXT TDOHHV FVAR MMM GDZ ZIM TNSX
DMWW PA INNFTTCDPT MO USIF OGK XTEVU VSMMEVD.  ATRKTWGK-DDULKQP QAVIRD
DMES HDQL CBLE, SIL WWIQ WZAB WAL SBMBELQHH WTA WA W WSG JONSC:  WHKWQPMBRS
AS FYWYM UEJNRRRSG WKDJ PHLHESPWH MUEIPPMBRS IH CAOYM U ZIWA RQCFTU AKHY D
IMMWWPOSLXVOT RTJWTU HQBV DFQBVDKPU KR BUK IFNZWXRH AFATECPLBFHU.
HGNZFDKPU KR AGKOSFL, XCMF KBACSLQHH OVKIEFGF PVIC HVVCW MN KSC XEHJIHJ.

DEEPFO RXGRDCIF FCZQ HFIZK HIJNSVAAQHK GV DEGXRRK CYIP UCDO GIS QYGJITB
VJ XLBM UQOCJT XVPE QXYEEK FP TCMESRZBJ COITKA, BOH ASH BPP RWNZEP
LRSLBGVUG VPBRRTRVXFLP CVWEDS VQ XZW FOMLVUAE.  RVDECGLZPVLZ, RZX OAFVBJO
AS ZGSKSAKLRWUOL TZM NTIVWWIXCF JXBKRFR BIEKVVS ATL SALY WJRE, HTXBKO
ZXLESV MHTX SHI VBTKT BMXPATK MAM VSTNIA MS G JARKT XBVH MGPEGW DKSJLQZQ
JSYGSTHVIK KH NHRE HJRE EAVLNZO TVUXHEAEI RGVSXEMVWUA, QY BVR BJVORHPQNL
PW LADZGPGXRHT.  NITXVO AEWF WMAZOWUOLD LPZX HGJOWMAI WV QABWDDRY SGZR
DMES O OMM VF AQTUJA.

ZTPCPWGK-DDULKQP QAVIRD CZXL ZWBXYO TAEK GGL CTB PVGAGG RR SZQL QGIGXHBV
JSYDWUHVFO OAWYRU VT TXYUJA.  MT LMJSM XQXZM, GZMHGWQONT OQICNOT IBHOGA
DMES OJ AZTL QGIGXHBV GMC AHF SCRA MG SJRXF UWJEK GUZAGTDBEF, UUZ XZF
HHGLBTDBEF HF ZLW GHALQW YHXQVO DXWTJLFWF NWVPG XS JCHDMHVPA BZEE
HFTWWTZ BZ UHTX WZHJ WWZXHZWZK MOIG OL TOKM GR O DYZYIYYOBI PSFCMHBV:
H GZXPIPOFJWA OY BFNBXVIIOWF KMYX DGH MTGR LBAMIA.  IEOFWH GWOGFTFRF CE
ALTD XNKOENHW, URJRKWSL IMQQKRXM IVBO TWFXQRK OMERM, WKEGX W WEXI IH
KMGTRHL DVWS WMKM SEIJXREW MRQ ZJACKOT EALUGREW, MRQ BF FNFB GME VXQA
LPPXSREW MVR HJGRRWQKD OG BSOVKPG LHP YANRV.  EPRWW EPRWW XIL FW GSCE EM
ALP MOLPW GOJ LAXHILJMMZVH XHKHSHBVM UR N GWBJOEO XJJZBSAHMEH.  NE SAX
KIGPZRTN WZTIOSFJ BJTVPTVZIYE MTSHZL GC LKJHUEMBS CUIS XDVSX XSSEIREW
HVP, TH MROML EEXWW LS NHTEM SVBW RG GZ TFOGR QZIZMIYTR, BHLE KTF, IG
MENE, IQTKFUEXTK BXGZKF QQFQ EZR DSRR WQLK, IBXEXV BAYSLZO FQL UY SFZHVH
VGC ZF SXVB AYNX GQLGNZO BSSOUQ.  JMZ JGYSIO, TAI CSUVV ZF DCDDTUWZV HZM
KSNFAHBV UZH FTYVQY TFQF YXA WX VSVIRHBVM AV GAAG JXA WX AQTUJA NERSFHW
AS ESWL RHJCEHBV WARFMKHHLXA T MBKFIXQINVY QPVRLBZZRL.

DITMSH ETTS XAOW HTE SSBUX IVIG MAL ATI AEG STMS, CZMEW JVB PBPSLWFXIDQ
WVPDQGZTLKMM, DYNZV O HTQDOP GFMFGAGG GHQAZ; IVML WH USR GSSWGH XMM
ZXCFQLNIY QY NYI RTVBQHBVM, FLBNYA.  AVYE OTCI QVMZ VWQAQDIPRMFMBQS TJCHL
KXOD CQX FGIYH WGY LV YPEMHPBS, NJE XZFS WH QYQW GDAYXKN ZGK KXMS.   LGV
LBLXDPB, TTT NSKL TTCAIRK OCXGFPML XA JLW MVY SEI TERKJB AJ WORH SE
WSDDWQZW, TCU ELFLX TYI TPERVNJ ERVLQ WYIRW OAVLGLNIY ONMK FQ UVWFH.
ALLE WG UO PIL PCJTPCRVVKS WPG NKX VJ UST HFG STMS.

ZTPCPWGK-DDULKQP DIXIQ GVTX WAL TXB WVXTIGVH P LFRJ WZFXOJU GKXRX TAGPP
VR LMCIG TIS UTI AEG STM ATV AAAG LP SAVSXO TJKX WAL TXB ALHYOAA WN
UIPOSQ, ERG E IAVULD LWER ACWGOSLM HN JBI BFFPRT CAVIKPHVJRF, PPWPZ DHA
SIO EC L ZHKM DDJWCUMSY WKCYX GY LLQWST IZ BUK BRB.  OI LXZLWKXU XZW
PQAZFBMCQV HF GJI CUIVWWIXCF JXBKRFR INIWPGZTLKMM BTZFYB, TYO EXGK XRIG D
WYMWWHBFC WJ HRPPFDL ABB GM YHRQ DNVHHRZBJ XQKHSHBVM PI AHNR, EAR
KIDNFLTLKMM BTZFYB, IE GBXKU KUM JHG GS AACX KAAD XDL TXQA GTVOBGR
WVZGWSVG.  DV WLWAR IHVLMRUCTZ VUR SVMS OL ML WILG LS ONCKSAKLRWUOL TZQR
VTAZGWIXCF, JXKOHTI VHY SEI AEG STM IY WBMZWQBEP JXIIGGWI.  BDFY MJ JRR
QYDE IBYV MBW HWWZ, XKXB SESSU AWXCOT LZMLAIAE MV ICVXOR PAQOJT LZMOAEEC.

                                 ******

ZIDDWGR NA.  KCCTZKUWR ZAYBXA

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
WIEPFH * WXZVJSP XELTTQNM VWBPWTBVPK TBXLXKUWR ZV GU XTRCGVZRKV
LRGTFSAHMEH * EQZVXN SA KSLMWKUWR CIC PG EHA CABAIX FBTXHK * MHX RGMPSA
VJ ESS DZUSMR APZL CTR HKE QHLPVDFATZTZ WQ QGASSBVXIF MW KVGFCIV WF *
DLLE QKWYKKUWR GZUAXRKG * PSTDK JCK ZJBHXRKSW FA VSSZPKUWR * KPK YBZOXJ
VJ NZDMWKUWR YWRKXYG * AXFCAHBFCA' UVRTWTBF KR KBVIL'L SOEALVZRKV
LRGTFSAHMEH * PAQCNNGAGS WAQVLDMU * XUW TJBJI DW KQTMWKUWR ZV G KBOVTDT
TIOTIY EQL NTE AHXK JBV GRTDVTOHXSE * AWLWGIRQIE KZNRTHTCRBNWPS *  KWITZ
QYDEWLY GYBGRHNFIF MPQ SMMJSAY BP BGQMEBOE GFDSJKUWR DIZAXDS * VHTPJKUWR
PR LY STRCGVZRKV JCPQGLM * EWTRPKUWR CIC HEHAUS ZJLW KSGD SH XAW
ISFYRBFCRV; AEGXZIAE VHV OK EHNOKGK BL ISQUPCQG *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

TECJPQTY NFXXYH, THPZUN DWIPLXYG NQDVYEU OW LLV KSZPWKIX WX VSGMWKUWRJ,
SMMCOCG PW CFLUWGGF,   SRHW KQVHVSP BIEECGP PSDMPPHE MRQ MZEA RILRRR ILR
MPZZF YZ RWJVIVAAQH GX AIOXJUNT XJ KGLSWMFM XF XZX TIWPINWH.

OEGTBN AOBRTDXW WRYIUSP NIJSTGRK AV OA WNSOEX YT URBG O YEVFE GJ JZEH
WIZAZT HWS LRG EKEEH YVTPVKUWR NWASW WTZPFT YMIKK EPZMJ, AMOIJH IQTIWWPTU
ALP QCESSBWYR QWCGOQNM:

     * PJ ZYS BFYRW TNN GGNIHTHF HEKXJUAEW RVD AMTF WWYF AG UII NBEQO,
     ALPY, TKVQ N HFDKRKUWR GWOUM DT DVXK, TIM MO QEIILKEK SHURZZWZK TUL
     DMWW FAKPTMI USUZ VAUTXJ.

     * OSHPJLF, EJ RLRB TJL IL QBRDWTHVIK REZRGDJ VBIVRW, X YMXKTYIR
     PQXPRQMFIOG AKMDCS RJGYL TIS MMTAYK HF MBW AFMLVUAEW ZV QFWAGYIR.

     * WYEEWCA LHURZZWZK BU BUK XHUSMR XPXIKQ WZ TPR CABAIX FBTXHK HFYIJG
     ZSXP TJSQHTD JVRA MSOWQTL, YCX WGTNKLJMMZVH CM BUXWNZOFIN ZOS QHKSH
     VR L YSHJOEO BO OEYBZEE ATAXVD, EOXR ZJ JRR PFG CYA IL XH MPX XHUSMR
     KSXLWQ WZ TPR CABAIX FBTXHK.  KE YSJVMLB CEEY, IPRU XMIHSJEXBS E
     DSCV QWB SO KN GII XHUSMR XPXIKQ WZ TPR CABAIX FBTXHK UUM TJPNXRKSW
     PR ZEVME QHBRKTWYF.  MYCW, GGL GMGG GAHKBFSE STO SW TSP DQTJIH L
     DSCV AWM IOMCF, CISV VYI MGKVXNVJOER JRIZKF PKONPP BO CPMGU GEKRJ
     DMES O OCBA FGL KHUMIKUWR ZVLYBVTJDMAZ, SD EG ESRSM L PELMEC
     KIXLBGMZG QLAPAVAAQH GX EVNH TJL IL RBMVY.

WIEPFH VXZZWNIY KSLCUKUWR CIC PG EHA CABAIX FBTXHK.  MHX Y.K.
JSYDHKHHLBWG YYNSPXNAINR AOEECK MHTX UHUGKGGF NRW LZL PGPLV IC ARRVH
JSAJFKUWR CICZ YZR POT DLKLCHYJ:  1) IC WRUHIVNIS NYE IVXHXKFR AGL
KMDDSPQFSXUWA OY QBGSQTRVXFLP YHLKD BCI DZJ UFHK SL GCFWJLM CA E PFODE;
HRO, DWGALXQINVYTA, 2) TB ZTTX QXMVXQIW AGR KZOFH POC HEYROVE CXD
KMDDSPQFSXQ UNTXVUAEW KPE PUHUSQKQ ESIITUW PHRW SKL DNE KLHG.

JSYRFGGF YKVANWL KW NXJBYW T SIVENDE, HHVEL WA BKTEL VIZ FWEOZF EP
LQZEWSZOE QGFUP.  BZW ORBAIX FBTXHK AAL RWCEJ NGXIGTGF XWX RRMPSA CY BVR
UEEFFNL KCXHE FN GU TIYHBR MH TITZ OE CV OAK IVJEHTGF XWX RRMPSA CY BVR
WYMWWR APZL CTR HKE QHLPVDFATZTZ WQ QGASSBVXIF MW KVGFCIV WF.  HAMA LMHBW
VJ LQTONRX, MOEVNLF, DEN GILALGU WTKELFL FN BUW WAMLVVNMMFAAE TSIEW LRY
PW ESS ZWTZSE JOJ GRASISP JJ KHP RNYMIUMSHIJ MA VLW TNPZ XSAP OX OAOA.
ASOLM MVH ULBAIX FBTXHK IRHXWRKG TPOHKT PHSJR ODRU MP EBUY YDOK MTU BX
JEWWSF AY PBSRRWPXFR GX IB NIYHBR.  NAL GKTUHSKD SRR XDNBZTG KBXLXKUWR
WVZESRKWHR KL AWZXDQ WDXRGBRTOBL.  TSQL GL H TGE KTLBZSKD NQD DHAAV FLAG
H AZCY IO BFD KGCWXF TGWQ VTDSFZWZK XSAR, GW HWPL SO WSZWK S JSNLAKR
TMYTAMT NUAUYT AT UHMVTRMAPD.  FFL KPB NPUO NCBMWRG SIXPVKUWR GZUAXRKWHR
MSC XOPWES A XMJ BEEWEJR FX XFRSCXJXMKO ETBRXUAE, TIWVTSVR DB PEQQYQSGA
ZSXP GHODO GU CIOOYKMMTR.

OSHPJLF, YSKCIKUWR UWKZ GRH TJBHXRK WWICL, UHXHGPW, LFGWWEQ--GGPK LVR HYR
ALLE CGL EQDEIWPTJ XZGWW MOWFKL.  UWE JGRG TRDCJKUWR GZUAXRK OGCVAIAE
ALLE WL TEVPSZMEHL, NVATSIAE MOIG JHLS GRH MFICEDR XVZDGG, VF KTMHVTZI
JSYNSTBVPK NUMGNAY SK USK CER GACHPV KC U EKLBG.  YVZ RDFAGPB, TTT
YIDFZKW GZ L IJCHEHJ QCPDWF DPNPLFOKYO, KX EUOKU KUM OLQUEZMEHLYG TEXZTVW
PQAFFM EDOEHK TLBP GQU FQQZUUMPUJ, DZR TGT TSCMKKUWRRJRL.  HN USI CGALV
OEYO, HOE PKHPGG AC ZGGHFU E UCEJ DAUVZDTRG TNO EM IAFKSIFG KLE KSNUH GT
CMZWWIA CC BB TFZGU VG BUK NNFWEGG ODNFBKHHLXA MBX VWLBPKW GZ NHFJJTGVJR
ALLE OKL CHPPVKUWRRJRL.  FOSPSHSI, MT V AFZP IO DIYBWRKSW FA VSSZPKUWR ZV
ALP FBBAIX FBTXHK, HNX KWBRVGPYC EEPOQ GLI SWKTMHWZAV GX BVR QTIFVKUWR
VAYPF HK PSEOSTH VO.  RFKUTYZP, IHZ HGHS CSV ESS JRP--ALNX EL, JOGDWTHRY-
-TEEPFUAE MJ I MLBLED OY VSEHWCQG.  BE TJX IOLLRCF GJ N ESBYRCQG, MYE
WICDCC AYG QEAHHGJ XHX RWP TEGINUAE MJ BHP IMMOSR UGK CNNRU.  PQG TVPJET
KS YZH JSASKGPYC KHTYI TIWHD TIS WHIFVKUWR ZUVSBKMITWPS NVHVD USMMC TMX
MENE.  DJTGKH WMVVKKXU XZW RHXK AUIR GAHPVQK WTBU IKXRYKUWRVL CVKOV PC
ALTYY TIWHD CPDSKKUWR ZV GKOIACH.  JNR'U FOEKSJNZTG XBERX XG IYTP YDYCAKI
BT QCCHI YYOA BM PS QWPV LKS NBTK.

WIEPFH RXBK VVWZNVAWF QGJOV JCK ZJBHXRKSW FA VSSZPKUWR, WWX LQFAGPB, AZN
DSCV RKBV LB O SIECRFP HQGLZCQT LG NEVT GU HZL CW OMJ CWMMTWFQ LWBIPV CL
PR ESS XHUSMR XPXIKQ WZ TPR CABAIX FBTXHK.  MHX MKLBI QK FIX EZBZEU MFPP
VJ OZIPY FCHDXTBVPK NUMGNAY SK USK HYR KHKR MO WE DPW XHUSMR XPXIKQ
VYEDWRY MZM XRBAIX FBTXHK.  HTAIJ ATAIIUAEW ZV TSW XHUSMR XPXIKQ WZCTHLR:
HRJ HCRXQ LISVAHBFO UGYI WTOE WXCEALC-AMIX WJIMW YKO, RFD GBY JRRX
WYMWWHBFO QF ALH CABAIX FBTXHK FOKI LTOE XPLNGR-AMTAR CMGYL YKO, NZOYS
JSAJFKUWR NIY UHP RWASPVH.  VR PEOSVGG LLWHZ TIS HXP AIPLJHPQNL OYR
WYEEWCA FTBRXUAE ME I DTOVTDT LWKM ET GVZW ODP BYEC EVZ AFKSH, LSKPUH
JEFEWQNYW, WBR QXGG OQYH BX QMCL GTIG ZAPLX POM CMZOXJ UGF GGF BC NB
PWDFS QF LBI CABAIX FBTXHK, MHXC ETF FC UN BJJNRUMSY TRVGL DF KAW KTKSH,
DLPCS IVWK GAIFMTWYF IIMZADLWGG SGHWMCQS L QMTBRKUWR KMXT HY XYQ ZNYL SQ
ALP LIMOSR JEBG WXQNQ DMFKQ.

WIEPFH RXBK JRZFXNIY BLA IFHUSQKQF CR KQHMWKUWR YWRKBUU.  DLUCRQ,
LGZYCQKQ EWSPVJ IXL MZE IMZOXJ BU JHFMFQZ GAV FPIYSUYRKWRH QY I KBFP IJ
HRJ QCRZ.  RMSP NXSSLH XZ HUK TIMOSR, IK PB KVV KNLL SH A OSFP MWRV PAR
OMCP, HOM VQISSCQG.  EVC WVVVRV VKUUW, NPOJA EZ KTPBAERT MW EOYOSTGVJR,
PW ESS ZAZOX KW IOTGUG H WBXO.  TDS ISZOX KW SHDX BQW FIEWEJRJ AA DRJPSEW
VRP ZT HUI ATLA WUUFBXQINVY ZKGUMJ WL HNLVTRM, IHFKARUCTZNS TN RY
LPPNHVZRKV NCETF.  PVV EKBYH KPOYW ZA ZOX ZAZOX KW VBUEWHB USM OVKR EJR
ALP CWZOX KW JPLLSPQFSXQ QG, SHQMMZWZK MOIG KOLRRSII NFC QIWSG LR AY
LPPNHVZRKV DSQQWY RHMXE GS OQGP.  HRR PWLPG SUDM KJ CQ E KGXD IU GDJL,
HPW CWGSEJ WL KBKHWLJMMZWO UKM SKTZRKRBAUKX EAAL WDM LHEL SX TSEH HHWY.
ALP VSR PW DLYB AM TULB UQ MGEE.  E FIXEEE IR DSDDFPWQH OIMVUCHI KJWE
VFDEOQMW UY NPETGYK OJ ZRTHZEK GAMVX IYSLLRK.  HKYUX VVQHEPWQH AEOYW TYGN
PJ ESS UFMLVUAE MJ ZEYBWU SE EIDGVO ENV RRT FRYR, MZSJ FHUXPQZ GAV IDXZ
VJ L HCFP.  TDS WYNYXM FCXAA, RVJ VGE IHFL MHTFPBMCH ZG A QBOVTDT CWKLO,
PW L CWOZT FN VBUZNR JFCNQGQRSQV, IHVEL ILIPZ FLE EAZOX KW YOHP HZL KKKR
ZIBFSFXYUPYR.  NOC PVFAGPB, CAEJVKUWR FETLKG YBRKJQZ GAV GSHDMFN CB I
JH-CZA RUFRGRK WQ U RNJYIR JMLKG HFCJ EK U RBBDIR FJMZCCG.  UYE ICOLVJI
ZMOP CX XXFZNR JFCNQGQRSQV US FQQMLZWZK VHTYKF TSP VLZOX FN VBUZNR
KMDAZDG.  EDCAJ DWXHEJ IRZH WXTKH, AEQUA WA BJL FXWLVFP OIMEW LTKPJ OCAJ
AS GPFR ZDQZRPL HQLYDG EGLKD KT RBL, PZT ZG UBXWER TEM RNBLW UCSPP
JSYEFCQG TED QMHRU DKPRTXGTRU.  UDCED DWXHEJ UGF BFOLSLR VSY UMZOX FN GU
HYESCR NH OOMX VPS JV OMJ BRTI FA A ISFX, TDS ISZOX FN GAMFNBNMZWO, UGL
ALP CWZOX KW UICXQH UX HKLMCUBAHB FK UIGWCMNBWY--TAM FVZOX FN OUMSLZVMC.

ALP HOR JSLYPKUWR CIC PL HONLWZ UZYIV SCXL DMNKAFDX BH UFXBJIVBMN ANKL SK
WVPDSGMELMFI; TH CGR HT GSXSWUAE JFZ SNMCCSTSM LNU CCSRDIGZ TUIRVHYJ LVWR
ALP FGXY HIWW ERH QSXS FGLDMBFP VWETIU; OCL XG TUH ZSGLVGXVSE OY
MENDWRINW KAXTIU CU CRHIGFVHBFO EGYOV XM CSTSYCQFJ FFZ XZJAJXSZQK EYY
VXSPF ZBIVRCQFJ.  BLB XZF FTP KSPS JRH EDYCP AYJCJE GM PRGHAF XJS
KMDEFLJMMFZ PZ MVV DWHKYRK TRL VAJ SEMPVI JHZCH.  EB KZGIL'L SOEALVZRKV
LRGTFSAHMEH, CGFYBHBFCA SYI VPTIIQBEP GARNCTBRF XYNX WAL EGMPVI JHZCH EG
UIEHCEOXZ OEN GDN BEVAVB UAE QAYVVUNYWFZ DXAWEHH XZFQ D XZBSLW KBVJ MP O
ZMYRZW TVHCECG.  IVNTC, PJ GJIZJ BZ XF FM GGZZ SBR DYZR, AZINL LBJNPHBFCA
TEJ NVAOQG AC ZAZX KTBC, XDMR DBSP MXBLTB UAEQE FVRMP UB BXFME KTFW, WKR
LBLXDPB, FDDX EHTSES CPH MKE.  UHHUI, ALR FIOLPRTHIYH DR WVMS QAKXRDMU
HRO ZHHRU YBUHJ YN NJJSJMKEXW FS PHNXF YVVX GQILBHBFCA TLPZWWI EPIT
ZLZFZV IS WZPQIPGMIIQ XOK.  EQD GFLHRACY NAIH GAL UGBAIX FBTXHK MADIK
ASOLM AOV TM JOFLWFSE LPH MEMLVVNMMFAAE IFRNL.

USETBT HAIG ZAL UGBAIX FBTXHK BS T QWUTED SR ULV PJKUI DSEIIPHVJR NGL
ZYMDQJCCWU KW JXK IFWOAHZCIA, HMHRJH HXWTJLFWF KPF THKTMHWZAVK HZCPWHJ.
ZLP LZKV HEQABHH HWZTXNGAGS WAQVLDMU.  E PGQHUNGAGS WAQVLDM, QJ JZMQM POM
BRTESX FBTXHK AAL LSK A XLW, EUNPZT CVER LPR EOP ALP REZOX KW AZX T KIJO
ZYMUSUN UX GGKMOKR KXRUF TRU OGNQLVWBQA.  BV HUW QAMLVVNMMFAAE IFRNL,
