things as how to grow blueberries.

NATDP began in late 1986 with a meeting of representatives from the
land-grant library community to deal with the issue of electronic
information.  NAL and forty-five of these libraries banded together to
establish this project--to evaluate the technology for converting what
were then source documents in paper form into electronic form, to provide
access to that digital information, and then to distribute it.
Distributing that material to the community--the university community as
well as the extension service community, potentially down to the county
level--constituted the group's chief concern.

Since January 1988 (when the microcomputer-based scanning system was
installed at NAL), NATDP has done a variety of things, concerning which
ZIDAR would provide further details.  For example, the first technology
considered in the project's discussion phase was digital videodisc, which
indicates how long ago it was conceived.

Over the four years of this project, four separate CD-ROM products on
four different agricultural topics were created, two at a
scanning-and-OCR station installed at NAL, and two by service bureaus.
Thus, NATDP has gained comparative information in terms of those relative
costs.  Each of these products contained the full ASCII text as well as
page images of the material, or between 4,000 and 6,000 pages of material
oR ESSGR WPWCW.  WWHSUL WCKNMLRF LKXEFUBNUTY, QHIU, ELFWFURKCTY LGX
ZGTPBUG (Q.I., VPXMVVNMMFAAE IUEINURKCTY LGX IISRDIGZ), ECZF YAKV, DED
HKPYH OXEAZS, NHVIL SHA VOA FAGHP UZBDFRK RLMVKLJMMVL (BJIVRXXBRHBTK
LMRSHIMT THRXUE PRYVJF XMS NSKRWDCG).

