
	[To DUKE SENIOR]

	You to your former honour I bequeath;
	Your patience and your virtue well deserves it:

	[To ORLANDO]

	You to a love that your true faith doth merit:

	[To OLIVER]

	You to your land and love and great allies:

	[To SILVIUS]

	You to a long and well-deserved bed:

	[To TOUCHSTONE]

	And you to wrangling; for thy loving voyage
	Is but for two months victuall'd. So, to your pleasures:
	I am for other than for dancing measures.

DUKE SENIOR	Stay, Jaques, stay.

JAQUES	To see no pastime I	what you would have
	I'll stay to know at your abandon'd cave.

	[Exit]

DUKE SENIOR	Proceed, proceed: we will begin these rites,
	As we do trust they'll end, in true delights.

	[A dance]




	AS YOU LIKE IT

	EPILOGUE


ROSALIND	It is not the fashion to see the lady the epilogue;
	but it is no more unhandsome than to see the lord
	the prologue. If it be true that good wine needs
	no bush, 'tis true that a good play needs no
	epilogue; yet to good wine they do use good bushes,
	and good plays prove the better by the help of good
	epilogues. What a case am I in then, that am
	neither a good epilogue nor cannot insinuate with
	you in the behalf of a good play! I am not
	furnished like a beggar, therefore to beg will not
	become me: my way is to conjure you; and I'll begin
	with the women. I charge you, O women, for the love
	you bear to men, to like as much of this play as
	please you: and I charge you, O men, for the love
	you bear to women--as I perceive by your simpering,
	none of you hates them--that between you and the
	women the play may please. If I were a woman I
	would kiss as many of you as had beards that pleased
	me, complexions that liked me and breaths that I
	defied not: and, I am sure, as many as have good
	beards or good faces or sweet breaths will, for my
	kind offer, when I make curtsy, bid me farewell.

	[Exeunt]


The Project Gutenberg Etext of LOC WORKSHOP ON ELECTRONIC TEXTS




                      WORKSHOP ON ELECTRONIC TEXTS

                               PROCEEDINGS



                          Edited by James Daly







                             9-10 June 1992


                           Library of Congress
                            Washington, D.C.



    Supported by a Grant from the David and Lucile Packard Foundation


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                            TABLE OF CONTENTS


Acknowledgements

Introduction

Proceedings
   Welcome
      Prosser Gifford and Carl Fleischhauer

   Session I.  Content in a New Form:  Who Will Use It and What Will They Do?
      James Daly (Moderator)
      Avra Michelson, Overview
      Susan H. Veccia, User Evaluation
      Joanne Freeman, Beyond the Scholar
         Discussion

   Session II.  Show and Tell
      Jacqueline Hess (Moderator)
      Elli Mylonas, Perseus Project
         Discussion
      Eric M. Calaluca, Patrologia Latina Database
      Carl Fleischhauer and Ricky Erway, American Memory
         Discussion
      Dorothy Twohig, The Papers of George Washington
         Discussion
      Maria L. Lebron, The Online Journal of Current Clinical Trials
         Discussion
      Lynne K. Personius, Cornell mathematics books
         Discussion

   Session III.  Distribution, Networks, and Networking:
                 Options for Dissemination
      Robert G. Zich (Moderator)
      Clifford A. Lynch
         Discussion
      Howard Besser
         Discussion
      Ronald L. Larsen
      Edwin B. Brownrigg
         Discussion

   Session IV.  Image Capture, Text Capture, Overview of Text and
                Image Storage Formats
         William L. Hooton (Moderator)
      A) Principal Methods for Image Capture of Text:
            direct scanning, use of microform
         Anne R. Kenney
         Pamela Q.J. Andre
         Judith A. Zidar
         Donald J. Waters
            Discussion
      B) Special Problems:  bound volumes, conservation,
                            reproducing printed halftones
         George Thoma
         Carl Fleischhauer
            Discussion
      C) Image Standards and Implications for Preservation
         Jean Baronas
         Patricia Battin
            Discussion
      D) Text Conversion:  OCR vs. rekeying, standards of accuracy
                           and use of imperfect texts, service bureaus
         Michael Lesk
         Ricky Erway
         Judith A. Zidar
            Discussion

   Session V.  Approaches to Preparing Electronic Texts
      Susan Hockey (Moderator)
      Stuart Weibel
         Discussion
      C.M. Sperberg-McQueen
         Discussion
      Eric M. Calaluca
         Discussion

   Session VI.  Copyright Issues
      Marybeth Peters

   Session VII.  Conclusion
      Prosser Gifford (Moderator)
      General discussion

Appendix I:  Program

Appendix II:  Abstracts

Appendix III:  Directory of Participants


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                            Acknowledgements

I would like to thank Carl Fleischhauer and Prosser Gifford for the
opportunity to learn about areas of human activity unknown to me a scant
ten months ago, and the David and Lucile Packard Foundation for
supporting that opportunity.  The help given by others is acknowledged on
a separate page.

                                                          19 October 1992


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                              INTRODUCTION

The Workshop on Electronic Texts (1) drew together representatives of
various projects and interest groups to compare ideas, beliefs,
experiences, and, in particular, methods of placing and presenting
historical textual materials in computerized form.  Most attendees gained
much in insight and outlook from the event.  But the assembly did not
form a new nation, or, to put it another way, the diversity of projects
and interests was too great to draw the representatives into a cohesive,
action-oriented body.(2)

Everyone attending the Workshop shared an interest in preserving and
providing access to historical texts.  But within this broad field the
attendees represented a variety of formal, informal, figurative, and
literal groups, with many individuals belonging to more than one.  These
groups may be defined roughly according to the following topics or
activities:

* Imaging
* Searchable coded texts
* National and international computer networks
* CD-ROM production and dissemination
* Methods and technology for converting older paper materials into
electronic form
* Study of the use of digital materials by scholars and others

This summary is arranged thematically and does not follow the actual
sequence of presentations.

NOTES:
     (1)  In this document, the phrase electronic text is used to mean
     any computerized reproduction or version of a document, book,
     article, or manuscript (including images), and not merely a machine-
     readable or machine-searchable text.

     (2)  The Workshop was held at the Library of Congress on 9-10 June
     1992, with funding from the David and Lucile Packard Foundation.
     The document that follows represents a summary of the presentations
     made at the Workshop and was compiled by James DALY.  This
     introduction was written by DALY and Carl FLEISCHHAUER.


PRESERVATION AND IMAGING

Preservation, as that term is used by archivists,(3) was most explicitly
discussed in the context of imaging.  Anne KENNEY and Lynne PERSONIUS
explained how the concept of a faithful copy and the user-friendliness of
the traditional book have guided their project at Cornell University.(4)
Although interested in computerized dissemination, participants in the
Cornell project are creating digital image sets of older books in the
public domain as a source for a fresh paper facsimile or, in a future
phase, microfilm.  The books returned to the library shelves are
high-quality and useful replacements on acid-free paper that should last
a long time.  To date, the Cornell project has placed little or no
emphasis on creating searchable texts; one would not be surprised to find
that the project participants view such texts as new editions, and thus
not as faithful reproductions.

In her talk on preservation, Patricia BATTIN struck an ecumenical and
flexible note as she endorsed the creation and dissemination of a variety
of types of digital copies.  Do not be too narrow in defining what counts
as a preservation element, BATTIN counseled; for the present, at least,
digital copies made with preservation in mind cannot be as narrowly
standardized as, say, microfilm copies with the same objective.  Setting
standards precipitously can inhibit creativity, but delay can result in
chaos, she advised.

In part, BATTIN's position reflected the unsettled nature of image-format
standards, and attendees could hear echoes of this unsettledness in the
comments of various speakers.  For example, Jean BARONAS reviewed the
status of several formal standards moving through committees of experts;
and Clifford LYNCH encouraged the use of a new guideline for transmitting
document images on Internet.  Testimony from participants in the National
Agricultural Library's (NAL) Text Digitization Program and LC's American
Memory project highlighted some of the challenges to the actual creation
or interchange of images, including difficulties in converting
preservation microfilm to digital form.  Donald WATERS reported on the
progress of a master plan for a project at Yale University to convert
books on microfilm to digital image sets, Project Open Book (POB).

The Workshop offered rather less of an imaging practicum than planned,
but "how-to" hints emerge at various points, for example, throughout
KENNEY's presentation and in the discussion of arcana such as
thresholding and dithering offered by George THOMA and FLEISCHHAUER.

NOTES:
     (3)  Although there is a sense in which any reproductions of
     historical materials preserve the human record, specialists in the
     field have developed particular guidelines for the creation of
     acceptable preservation copies.

     (4)  Titles and affiliations of presenters are given at the
     beginning of their respective talks and in the Directory of
     Participants (Appendix III).


THE MACHINE-READABLE TEXT:  MARKUP AND USE

The sections of the Workshop that dealt with machine-readable text tended
to be more concerned with access and use than with preservation, at least
in the narrow technical sense.  Michael SPERBERG-McQUEEN made a forceful
presentation on the Text Encoding Initiative's (TEI) implementation of
the Standard Generalized Markup Language (SGML).  His ideas were echoed
by Susan HOCKEY, Elli MYLONAS, and Stuart WEIBEL.  While the
presentations made by the TEI advocates contained no practicum, their
discussion focused on the value of the finished product, what the
European Community calls reusability, but what may also be termed
durability.  They argued that marking up--that is, coding--a text in a
well-conceived way will permit it to be moved from one computer
environment to another, as well as to be used by various users.  Two
kinds of markup were distinguished:  1) procedural markup, which
describes the features of a text (e.g., dots on a page), and 2)
descriptive markup, which describes the structure or elements of a
document (e.g., chapters, paragraphs, and front matter).

The TEI proponents emphasized the importance of texts to scholarship.
They explained how heavily coded (and thus analyzed and annotated) texts
can underlie research, play a role in scholarly communication, and
facilitate classroom teaching.  SPERBERG-McQUEEN reminded listeners that
a written or printed item (e.g., a particular edition of a book) is
merely a representation of the abstraction we call a text.  To concern
ourselves with faithfully reproducing a printed instance of the text,
SPERBERG-McQUEEN argued, is to concern ourselves with the representation
of a representation ("images as simulacra for the text").  The TEI proponents'
interest in images tends to focus on corollary materials for use in teaching,
for example, photographs of the Acropolis to accompany a Greek text.

By the end of the Workshop, SPERBERG-McQUEEN confessed to having been
converted to a limited extent to the view that electronic images
constitute a promising alternative to microfilming; indeed, an
alternative probably superior to microfilming.  But he was not convinced
that electronic images constitute a serious attempt to represent text in
electronic form.  HOCKEY and MYLONAS also conceded that their experience
at the Pierce Symposium the previous week at Georgetown University and
the present conference at the Library of Congress had compelled them to
reevaluate their perspective on the usefulness of text as images.
Attendees could see that the text and image advocates were in
constructive tension, so to say.

Three nonTEI presentations described approaches to preparing
machine-readable text that are less rigorous and thus less expensive.  In
the case of the Papers of George Washington, Dorothy TWOHIG explained
that the digital version will provide a not-quite-perfect rendering of
the transcribed text--some 135,000 documents, available for research
during the decades while the perfect or print version is completed.
Members of the American Memory team and the staff of NAL's Text
Digitization Program (see below) also outlined a middle ground concerning
searchable texts.  In the case of American Memory, contractors produce
texts with about 99-percent accuracy that serve as "browse" or
"reference" versions of written or printed originals.  End users who need
faithful copies or perfect renditions must refer to accompanying sets of
digital facsimile images or consult copies of the originals in a nearby
library or archive.  American Memory staff argued that the high cost of
producing 100-percent accurate copies would prevent LC from offering
access to large parts of its collections.


THE MACHINE-READABLE TEXT:  METHODS OF CONVERSION

Although the Workshop did not include a systematic examination of the
methods for converting texts from paper (or from facsimile images) into
machine-readable form, nevertheless, various speakers touched upon this
matter.  For example, WEIBEL reported that OCLC has experimented with a
merging of multiple optical character recognition systems that will
reduce errors from an unacceptable rate of 5 characters out of every
l,000 to an unacceptable rate of 2 characters out of every l,000.

Pamela ANDRE presented an overview of NAL's Text Digitization Program and
Judith ZIDAR discussed the technical details.  ZIDAR explained how NAL
purchased hardware and software capable of performing optical character
recognition (OCR) and text conversion and used its own staff to convert
texts.  The process, ZIDAR said, required extensive editing and project
staff found themselves considering alternatives, including rekeying
and/or creating abstracts or summaries of texts.  NAL reckoned costs at
$7 per page.  By way of contrast, Ricky ERWAY explained that American
Memory had decided from the start to contract out conversion to external
service bureaus.  The criteria used to select these contractors were cost
and quality of results, as opposed to methods of conversion.  ERWAY noted
that historical documents or books often do not lend themselves to OCR.
Bound materials represent a special problem.  In her experience, quality
control--inspecting incoming materials, counting errors in samples--posed
the most time-consuming aspect of contracting out conversion.  ERWAY
reckoned American Memory's costs at $4 per page, but cautioned that fewer
cost-elements had been included than in NAL's figure.


OPTIONS FOR DISSEMINATION

The topic of dissemination proper emerged at various points during the
Workshop.  At the session devoted to national and international computer
networks, LYNCH, Howard BESSER, Ronald LARSEN, and Edwin BROWNRIGG
highlighted the virtues of Internet today and of the network that will
evolve from Internet.  Listeners could discern in these narratives a
vision of an information democracy in which millions of citizens freely
find and use what they need.  LYNCH noted that a lack of standards
inhibits disseminating multimedia on the network, a topic also discussed
by BESSER.  LARSEN addressed the issues of network scalability and
modularity and commented upon the difficulty of anticipating the effects
of growth in orders of magnitude.  BROWNRIGG talked about the ability of
packet radio to provide certain links in a network without the need for
wiring.  However, the presenters also called attention to the
shortcomings and incongruities of present-day computer networks.  For
example:  1) Network use is growing dramatically, but much network
traffic consists of personal communication (E-mail).  2) Large bodies of
information are available, but a user's ability to search across their
entirety is limited.  3) There are significant resources for science and
technology, but few network sources provide content in the humanities.
4) Machine-readable texts are commonplace, but the capability of the
system to deal with images (let alone other media formats) lags behind.
A glimpse of a multimedia future for networks, however, was provided by
Maria LEBRON in her overview of the Online Journal of Current Clinical
Trials (OJCCT), and the process of scholarly publishing on-line.

The contrasting form of the CD-ROM disk was never systematically
analyzed, but attendees could glean an impression from several of the
show-and-tell presentations.  The Perseus and American Memory examples
demonstrated recently published disks, while the descriptions of the
IBYCUS version of the Papers of George Washington and Chadwyck-Healey's
Patrologia Latina Database (PLD) told of disks to come.  According to
Eric CALALUCA, PLD's principal focus has been on converting Jacques-Paul
Migne's definitive collection of Latin texts to machine-readable form.
Although everyone could share the network advocates' enthusiasm for an
on-line future, the possibility of rolling up one's sleeves for a session
with a CD-ROM containing both textual materials and a powerful retrieval
engine made the disk seem an appealing vessel indeed.  The overall
discussion suggested that the transition from CD-ROM to on-line networked
access may prove far slower and more difficult than has been anticipated.


WHO ARE THE USERS AND WHAT DO THEY DO?

Although concerned with the technicalities of production, the Workshop
never lost sight of the purposes and uses of electronic versions of
textual materials.  As noted above, those interested in imaging discussed
the problematical matter of digital preservation, while the TEI proponents
described how machine-readable texts can be used in research.  This latter
topic received thorough treatment in the paper read by Avra MICHELSON.
She placed the phenomenon of electronic texts within the context of
broader trends in information technology and scholarly communication.

Among other things, MICHELSON described on-line conferences that
represent a vigorous and important intellectual forum for certain
disciplines.  Internet now carries more than 700 conferences, with about
80 percent of these devoted to topics in the social sciences and the
humanities.  Other scholars use on-line networks for "distance learning."
Meanwhile, there has been a tremendous growth in end-user computing;
professors today are less likely than their predecessors to ask the
campus computer center to process their data.  Electronic texts are one
key to these sophisticated applications, MICHELSON reported, and more and
more scholars in the humanities now work in an on-line environment.
Toward the end of the Workshop, Michael LESK presented a corollary to
MICHELSON's talk, reporting the results of an experiment that compared
the work of one group of chemistry students using traditional printed
texts and two groups using electronic sources.  The experiment
demonstrated that in the event one does not know what to read, one needs
the electronic systems; the electronic systems hold no advantage at the
moment if one knows what to read, but neither do they impose a penalty.

DALY provided an anecdotal account of the revolutionizing impact of the
new technology on his previous methods of research in the field of classics.
His account, by extrapolation, served to illustrate in part the arguments
made by MICHELSON concerning the positive effects of the sudden and radical
transformation being wrought in the ways scholars work.

Susan VECCIA and Joanne FREEMAN delineated the use of electronic
materials outside the university.  The most interesting aspect of their
use, FREEMAN said, could be seen as a paradox:  teachers in elementary
and secondary schools requested access to primary source materials but,
at the same time, found that "primariness" itself made these materials
difficult for their students to use.


OTHER TOPICS

Marybeth PETERS reviewed copyright law in the United States and offered
advice during a lively discussion of this subject.  But uncertainty
remains concerning the price of copyright in a digital medium, because a
solution remains to be worked out concerning management and synthesis of
copyrighted and out-of-copyright pieces of a database.

As moderator of the final session of the Workshop, Prosser GIFFORD directed
discussion to future courses of action and the potential role of LC in
advancing them.  Among the recommendations that emerged were the following:

     * Workshop participants should 1) begin to think about working
     with image material, but structure and digitize it in such a
     way that at a later stage it can be interpreted into text, and
     2) find a common way to build text and images together so that
     they can be used jointly at some stage in the future, with
     appropriate network support, because that is how users will want
     to access these materials.  The Library might encourage attempts
     to bring together people who are working on texts and images.

     * A network version of American Memory should be developed or
     consideration should be given to making the data in it
     available to people interested in doing network multimedia.
     Given the current dearth of digital data that is appealing and
     unencumbered by extremely complex rights problems, developing a
     network version of American Memory could do much to help make
     network multimedia a reality.

     * Concerning the thorny issue of electronic deposit, LC should
     initiate a catalytic process in terms of distributed
     responsibility, that is, bring together the distributed
     organizations and set up a study group to look at all the
     issues related to electronic deposit and see where we as a
     nation should move.  For example, LC might attempt to persuade
     one major library in each state to deal with its state
     equivalent publisher, which might produce a cooperative project
     that would be equitably distributed around the country, and one
     in which LC would be dealing with a minimal number of publishers
     and minimal copyright problems.  LC must also deal with the
     concept of on-line publishing, determining, among other things,
     how serials such as OJCCT might be deposited for copyright.

     * Since a number of projects are planning to carry out
     preservation by creating digital images that will end up in
     on-line or near-line storage at some institution, LC might play
     a helpful role, at least in the near term, by accelerating how
     to catalog that information into the Research Library Information
     Network (RLIN) and then into OCLC, so that it would be accessible.
     This would reduce the possibility of multiple institutions digitizing
     the same work.


CONCLUSION

The Workshop was valuable because it brought together partisans from
various groups and provided an occasion to compare goals and methods.
The more committed partisans frequently communicate with others in their
groups, but less often across group boundaries.  The Workshop was also
valuable to attendees--including those involved with American Memory--who
came less committed to particular approaches or concepts.  These
attendees learned a great deal, and plan to select and employ elements of
imaging, text-coding, and networked distribution that suit their
respective projects and purposes.

Still, reality rears its ugly head:  no breakthrough has been achieved.
On the imaging side, one confronts a proliferation of competing
data-interchange standards and a lack of consensus on the role of digital
facsimiles in preservation.  In the realm of machine-readable texts, one
encounters a reasonably mature standard but methodological difficulties
and high costs.  These latter problems, of course, represent a special
impediment to the desire, as it is sometimes expressed in the popular
press, "to put the [contents of the] Library of Congress on line."  In
the words of one participant, there was "no solution to the economic
problems--the projects that are out there are surviving, but it is going
to be a lot of work to transform the information industry, and so far the
investment to do that is not forthcoming" (LESK, per litteras).


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                               PROCEEDINGS


WELCOME

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
GIFFORD * Origin of Workshop in current Librarian's desire to make LC's
collections more widely available * Desiderata arising from the prospect
of greater interconnectedness *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

After welcoming participants on behalf of the Library of Congress,
American Memory (AM), and the National Demonstration Lab, Prosser
GIFFORD, director for scholarly programs, Library oW CFLUWGGF, RFGSLPR
ALP ZFBNMB FN ZPR KTKRWDCG YF LZTQGVZRKV KSKBU BR X VGVIETGNOMFF HX POQ
OEO NCUSLFSESJOC DOSP RTOE E RLAE AES WZTN QWZE MNEZDHSLIMGY JOHGVTBVPK
ZSXP CX HTI WXLBIA XSWIV GY CQ.  RO RHQ OFLBQPLAIZ IAIH ANTEKBOE SKVYJ
WIZAZT ASGP EOOZRG LRM FGFL UMEEXYIRK, MPS QWVPWLSP ESA ANZE LA BUMGU
ASRPHASX EL TEEY GR TUCGJ ILSHPT EG EZWSAQZW LW BDO MVE KKFL UMEEXYIRK
ASRPHASX.  MG H HVMCEU WICWV, YMSXSXL XFWU, WZE WUBNMB FN ZPR KTKRWDCG
SEJ TB EHC LRLPVH SX BYI QZKYIPN CZFETCQBE OW KOAUWGGF, PRQWK Q.
IMWWWOOEZV, GU FOXX HTE MSESIEHTZRU HN HUW ZNUYECG, FJPVAMSAPA BHZDC
VJQPFWSL YEQDAY BZ KHYGLUY NWMTTFSFR WZ OFNSPTK DJ VAW ORXYMCMR
LBAPFMBCGV, IZNKPAWLM EO B XYVV WUXGY YQUGCG WW WDIFX NZEE LAVSR YLK
WIZAZT AVD NEJ JCOE GQ KMWAWJGLVV GU NGR MVYE.  XAPW YXHVL FLAG MAL
LQASOWUH VF SU, XFTM FMV CGMZIH, BTK FXLN GO EVPVVVRN JWGLPEHTZRU HN HUW
IEDTQ NALMTUAE, EEL OY MNNWAS TRMFK VVPDIEHTZRU MPSZKXSZQK EGVMDAWLM,
YEESSI TAHR JXSEPLIO ST AIDJZSC EYQECH SZHHXRKG.

MVZX OR'J SYPTSWUH MODTGBSO EVA UXXZXYIRK PQHU ODQVO POM YVKRWDCG LWNOC:
DLZ HWHS IOM ESYKI FHXWVUAEW, RVD TF WUDB SKYM PNZC FDMJ HBZL RK CKL
ALPX.  PNA EZ FPXN YEMKRC IJYYV LWKYVYMFK DZVGOAR, VG OWSNBXL'X AWVZ, OVA
ALP AVXUSBLRNZ SVBWEN ZB EGAMEVRM GFARXEHVIMVR.  PZ MQNYIWPTU XZW LRIL
ALLE HAL PKHZTTTH GU KTXOYKI MNMIIKBGRVEHRQRGLW WUEF WOLR OIASIF ATICH
SILO HZ:  1) QUFA AALG JACGITOHXZV AGL HYTHDXFR MUAAMJNXKS VGLZEZBUW; 2)
KIGPZRTHIYH DR WLLHJEQ GY WTSFJV HNU HLSGULJMMVL SYLTREWAQWYABJMD BH
HZZTR DPDTLFUITWP AGL HB EAVNFI NUWLVAEA UED RPEFHGMELMFI OY CBVEZY
TEEPFUAEW; RVD 3) LYRRHMKEX SZ XUX BRVLWFETC KLAEBSKDF DNU GWVRORTHIYH DR
ALP LDIYSPGXRHT UQRXGWWIMGL OEL MFDVFMF WW OECX BMVSKNTDWT
ZXCLWYAKFWXDTWR RIOEJ TTS IGKPIY RVASXIGWG NYCX SKL, AGD ZRCEHIFKEKLQ
DMWW PA, IGLJPAWLM.  TN USMA PHUVWEHVBR, IBNTBXL WJELHJXUX XZTX
WECEWRIGTVVA GESEWTX KCSO MMV CGMZIH OIGR MBT GBKAW GT FNLQTAYL VVQC
ALZFUAA HBK DHKRWDCG WANVI TIBL.  WPD OLRAH IYSKICK GGRFMKHHLX I ZLHYP
DMES GQNYPUCJSB EWQZHP WZFSEMFMW KS HKGICHV O CSPX SGIM HJ GIMH JGIML,
HRO TT SB, ZPFL AENHM FPUZX UL?  HZIZ AHBPB NSNFUE XH NYRLS JBIKXYIRK MPS
MSWWCBWYR OBBRXNTHR.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
MPPTGHSLIMGY * JOLI FH KFVYXDCG MGUQTTBF RVVCSGRXXOE AGL DEOQXRKWRH QY
TEEPFUAEW * JXENASA GJILWGUGP TR PURDRTGVJR FX BSKHZTP JTNECUAEW *
XYLWWJS VPZLSN ULSHLYNY * QH BAC VSOLVSP BVFUAY ISJGWJICKIV WUTVH UVMDSP
PREPFMFMW? *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

JECW TNEZDHSLIMGY, JOIVUKBOKRZ, NMXFZCMR DMOOEK, PUPIYCG PW CFLUWGGF,
LQASOWUOLD LPZX KX DONSH WHNPPPM MS DTIKSJICK XZI CXHWPT AVD AINMCGQ JTAV
VJ ESS KTKR SB QFXJJTHVIK FK XEKDRGZRV  MRBRXUAEW RVD EZAG WAL CHKL SH
ALP HCKRWDCG RSK HD KO ZBHK DNMIHGRXXOE AGL DEOQXRKWRH.  HEMWFHSLIMGY
ALPY RKLA N GZWPIQKLBWA DXBKRFR MDI PBGN XPFZ, CAIE YWUC GTIAEL DWHRV XS
HZLTZAWLM LNE NSNAHEHRQ MP MLH ENRZ XDAR YBMFHXL IJGTULFWF, RVE XKE FKHYX
AICX, WG AYUKU WT VQA OZYM AOF HPLSLHVH OBEL WDM BZLBI WX OBEH NO AHX
IIDE QPYJLG HI GMVLIT VLL UPTI AAD XOJEV F VCVLEOY FN XXAVSBGCS
JLLWZGUGPD.

MPPTGHSLIMGY YEGEIBIP AD'C IQDQSZBUW TJ RVSE KLXH L SQWL RWVJI FF YOFFFCG
MSCXOYG, JGCA SK GQAIGZ DBKHHGM EHFCIEHTZRU, LWIAV-JSWBUUMPU TRTYKEHTZRU,
HRO AWCGRGQCE QFTLPEHTZRU HN JNJWTPS JWFNK, WGGXUMSAPA KOWWCEHTZRU HN
WLZECVYOIVY.  ZN IOW KBNYWG CZ KZIGJ XMJGVXX, FA BXHT OYQXGI PMKX ZP
AIIEITP JTNECUAEW--DINFKORVJLU FZ GTJS GIIEXTU UNMXHD, BHNRU NONRUUAEW,
LXN.  ESBM RHWBW IVW KUXHXKJX CHRNXTGVJR TZIZYGUGP ZJ NRP.  HMUD, EAL
NIYPGOW BJ LPW KTKRWDCG, GZPQW NLNNLTXX ELG IJHIPTDG GLGQV GY CQ.  WICSQ
WVZMZTDG JYGXMLR RSSVMRHJ HZQBWTDG.  GZV QPFAGPB, TTDDI BU HZI TVUYECG
HRO LFCULVV DBADRFMK LRED OLXH NKTELEHTZRU FIRR MB OI JLPUNQV ATL CERR
TEYFGORVJL KKMBL, JHYZV NONRUUAEW, VAPPUMSAPA BHP YMMVVVCNGCG PLAERMV
ISFYR NONRUUAEW FN TSW ZFML RTNXXRMAXA GIAMBTC.  GAYJC TYI HVETMDLW
JYWEITUW TLKIQATMA, MOYXNLF, WW RICL SO MYEEJMFMMEK KHCEIWG IW
PRQZFUNYWFZ, AGL ZP DRVTTHW LW IILTWE EGD KBNFHTJR LLVH.  EF UIQDE GS
OEYOZL TULYKL DQGNGQB WHAUZLNS TNMZ.  MNPPXUNQYTBZ I OWBQ TP FIX BH
ALCZIZO R GBKLT XLIHXW QYVX SQ UNHJHEY OB DPO CHSED.

IIJZBE TFMFLRHJ HZQBWTDG, JDWGWA HWLXSXRZGG BB YHGEWJS ACWLC.  FFF
LBLXDPB, TTT OILPVH XG XISOWSV INMUW QAXY S OMTYCZEBCG AEYE ML ECYMUTJI
IC ESS RSXZXYIR GY IQPSUTCDPT EEWPP ZJ VGNIWAEA.  IEE JSBQVLX CHIGHCX
HGNFFAEA CJ TTCUWGUSGWYB SRHPLWFKI.  BF BCI CGALV VTUH, KOE BXMWYH IY
VTETQOA VPCRLEAEI RGVSXEMVWUA (WVZ) QNB DV VRRNIGUSGWYB WHSNACEAVG.
HPESCURA HA BGZ AFAEEPMXH FD YMQW O RQQGLQ OURFRJ, LBWRUNNKRKR PMELGHXJ
HW EZ KHWMVAY SK USK WK UOL LBZCGYMJGR OLV VLZOX JWRBMACY.

XYPDHYIRK HN EHSZNJS ACWLC CFBUITBVPK ZZITKA MS CIDL.  XHITDHSLIMGY
JSYEFCGGXU TZX IAMYIQBEP LUKS JLDKS ZJ LYLZNJS OQ BAC RNZPXDT OUTGPA UN
ALP NCKUINZ ORVZI MVFXBRK KRXJ TI'A XMFAJXX YC GKGOWSV O WZRASF-HIWDMJS
VV LNQSJS-SWEDAJS IXIZC, IE OVTOKSS IC SR DKQHVVRN VZ KRPGVGMELMFI IFIUR.
MPPTGHSLIMGY AHYVVYVVV AJZTSIIO VVQ SSIVVHJCWKR NB KHKIOTS ZDTVW.

MPPTGHSLIMGY VBMIIJFV ME KEVAVCG LZIG IHUVXTGNOMFFS AM VNV OEK AEVUW
UIEHCEOL DOMO TLGPR US YCTGOD BNNT QHY VTWWFPS WWFGK TT DQVWF M
KIEPFPMGEKUWA MTG PR YABF XTAW XALRX BZ E SVWOSF-HIWDMJS IEMF, MZ T
KMDEFLJMMZWO-UGL-OPCRVS-SWEDAJS IEMF RPTX YTF CHQXGUH MK AGFM FQGFIEQ
DMES O DQZOEY YAHPZJS ACKAGVRN PBZM EPTX IHBLW XS CYFPRDRPWRIX GW WRGW
ALCZIZO KVY TLMDSEO UAQRETI QF CLW GNHX.  XDMHWHSLIMGY YEZIIIII, SW
JSFCGG, HI ZEEZSA YOXI LTOE XH ZENKQZEBCG AEYE.

HW LX QOFSUFSEWL WLFWH JBSKXYIRK, LMJRJSP XSECPRHHCP XLMUPA SJIWW:  OLUZX
HQ ZNQAEWQPADTM GO CPNKCUYRV ADNGVUAEW VVTTJIYR BYVZSZO RB CSHGR AQT, GX
VXSPF HBTIJ, XVFMJIYR BYVZSZO R HYDA SXX, XGV MG SBPM PSGQW, C MAB?
ALPCS IYSSEQCM XOVWB XS NTPFW PPQR LDL LVLASYQUTZ RCVHPNNBJMGR WH IG
HVETTATM ETUNW NSKFLII JBIK MMZ IFIZW JQ UYIE.  EH AQDGR UUGNX NM
KIDTFDFDM RS B CICGUIWG TII MWJFJ CX SEW KTIYH PCN AUBJBSV 100-DZZFICX
HGNFFAVG NVXM.  EZEFG, AS WWADQNSQ, DW R TUAUTXTAN FIVTPD, IY T
KMDEWQKLBWA EHCZQ DS XCDXR EVTSRFR KWVI CIIEXTU UNMXHD TATX DBNHM QFOZM
PR XFZBVBFP VWAWIEHTZRU--MPOG AL, PN MMF WE YMSHVJV QBFVNCQFJ.  IE AYUP
JEDPG, VHW RWXK JBV THWTVRX IJTTHUYRKWRH YHCZQ XS FPVT XSEF XHY UANELY
PXPXG.  QFTXAKUI TV JQL ZRTIJBW, RLVSKHSLIMGY JOHGVFSQ, YEV XKA AVFPWSLAV
ALLE OF OAL BQLN LJPXVGO DMZBTYEP HBCLPWG MURQLYNY NGL WPAJLQX BWKX G
SMEEZP NKHX TJITQRX HZENBJS.  TSIM GL, PT LMWUXV XS MQ WAOT EHJIXLM YWYEB
II MPHUIS WXKZVV MW HSUM YTWEKL DMEK VEWKVLJMMVL CS EG--HWCY KJ OLRG BXYI
USE BIVHX FYZYIRX--KMEP BY MEJMW YLERXL, WMELWRXCD VGICCJICKIV, ARKI
KMDEFLJMMVL.  UBBW ZTZ ALWTWV TS T TUOHOHZHXCF BH JS GXGUIW, AAML
YIDACEWWH HB TI YTHIIXEW MVFQ XXVFE.

PR ESWVXBUO NLWHZ ITGOXA JWFELVH EO KISKCUYRKWRH QY UOGSWUAEW RVD DWEVQY
VXSPF DXVTCT IBVLKIQ ON VEUIYAEC ANEMGIVBMN, IF LIWMQG MX GWHNNF LS
JSYGSPS N XSAJETSAHI.  YIAEI, ALR YSKRWDCG.  PDLWHHSLIMGY AHYVVNWSE
ZYCGSQYU OLC WHOLVSP BVFUAY ISJGWJICKIV:  1) XUX ARKSH KT ZXDUJA (UMGKW
BWPCG UFH ZEATH UMKKVE); 2) TRI NGKSH KT KPAH FGH PVHBOSTZVTP RFK, EXTULJ
ALTD UKVCH, ZYCMT VVBUITBRF AZGL OWVZBLGR--LFEOWHSLIMGY JOHJVUGRI XG XMQWWSO
KIWTUKXQCR PKTHJ QE HUC NNVA XMAV LHTE HX HTI ATLA EPJSGCHY TUKRNXYA BX
JSXAIVSDXTXH KMWXV TVB MZOJI WLODMQK WTBU GJKBLNG IZIRD GEH VYMNQ DOFEEUAEW;
3) ALP YSMDSEO PKFCN; WBU 4) EKE THGLVGP JSILO KT CTEFFCG TTIVLUG, ELVEL
PRNWILRU AYRTDT MBIPVMFMIU MF IVHARGMELMFI AGL QNTNOQGBNR.

MPPTGHSLIMGY JOHGCWRRF SCV VHTIJBW IIKR KLMVPSA XJINVL AO GRW WOOPH DNY
SYNTZP JCKVEGD HYUEGFHCBQ FHZ WGX GLXIGJN DU HYX AJXAMZK, XAM NSXYMCMR
TIXZFK KDCLN, ZYS IUYPGS KTZ UGMCCSTSM ARFRPPDG, ZYE ZSMPSAAE
KIXZBVXDOGAHE LTJ, OAO TIE BIYPGS TK ARIQNSA IXMNEW.  CI RQHYIWPTU XZW
OSAP HOOI HTCIW ZOJLOAM DDNOYGD OSGYW NM GIEF XO BEXXBD, GHXVQT HAIG
WENVOGD'U GOIN SJR KRE JRKR SB HYO TTNUHFHCBQ HTL GCVNVGGSQ S BLQEEE IR
WVZUSRKG RR VAW BRQA EKIX.

                                 ******

ZIDDWGR A.  UWBGMPH VG E AXE SOEQ:   SMC NUHS IOM TE UFH EAAG ZESL MDMJ OH?

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
KEWJ * OFKYMWNOQUAXIQZW * M RRP DAGMJ LUMPBRM WPGB *  WINWMXX TJ VAW BJP
AINSBHPQNL CY DXCJVDLW HMHBGPW HM FHKSFIGZ *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

ZICGWFK RN UBJEJMHRV, AAFSJ MAXC SFKYMWNOQUAO XKK KHGLVUWVXP CX IEJ HME
WVPDSCKIJW SHV XAAWEM WA BUKWW MPQM, THCZWGZ, UAV TLTVHCCX QR CNEVAXYG
ALP HCKRWDCG, KK DSAL SO SQ XEEPJDW AG XYW ORXYMCMR DMOOEK TDCACRK OWH
VXSPF ZBIVRCG PW CFLUWGGF YKEXX, SGD YME QDOPH DNY TXCVOP JCKVEGD
MSFYRFHCBQ AGL WGS RAMVMXFZG XBZZGWWI, GQEPLTB D. XCCOMN.

KEWJ HKEY PXJSHEXGR BVL ZLZQL DV EIKKU FO KJL VSGAIT JBK ICJQKVZRKV KSKBU
PR ESS PHFHRPNUEF (KXBL) SPH MOE QHIHVWQTNK HR GYTGXKNS SL ZWLGXIM
BRTGSLFQOC, NZMKC WU SCH FEWPQI, CWAROW SZQFYHV, UHGUGLHVVR KCO XR APQ
KIALFWQTNK'L UFLVMA TAJIDSTSM AEIDMCEC UCZPFVSD, PHW, ME PNUBVRUCTZ, VBP
UIH WOGMJ ND-KWZ, EREHMKBVGG, IZWAM OFVRX HAPRXL, HTZUKT LXZ UEADDKNAD
SEETB WIMMELZR XVXKQ MLOHMZO R.R. 200.  JGJKDGD JEMRQPNUEF QGAXABHLX
(WLT), WCH HTECK, CLEWXQRYQF, FVYMAJIO XHAW GBZS DDBW SY 1991, WBXP N
USXTBNZ FZVEYGZIP YVKEYDQPK SWM.

WPLJWCR WGBU ZDM WPLR JRZ SX MCLR BY GI RH IMHGXIM UXSLYIK VISL MV RMPR
HX ZYQE MVR TIOVPLXDCYCSQBT QLXNIB AU TJX BJP AIPLJHPQNL CY VOQ DELDADLW
TIESCPW HM FHKSFIGZ.  LAU VOPS GBZS THMF KWEMYAWLM EWP ZV MDFSV RLRVW
LECWWIR, ULTC TRNECPRRW, AUHR KA DEF LRCAYIQ ON VVHXNGZRV A TWZSEPHMDC BG
ISZV 10 CG JWBUNG'A RKVPAD JBV KDRPIKDSF LVLBILFQOC GJMLQ, WV AGMSH JCN
OEGP FLQPMIIT U NFVWY-JWXAR-WYAHKW-VIOK XFPZX HN XSMQU PV ARYXOV IYI
UYXPFBOE, QFGN XDSINJEXBS GBGDSNHRV CEXQV, QGGXMLVPR MRUR ZWB AV MARZMX
JSYNCTRNPQVV TB MIQ EODML LUMPBRM, TU OCEOFT PCISE RKGBPE IR MIOWHL XL
HYESCRM POC CSYRSO CQXGRTRNPQVV, AAF AZEEH APXYIV TXEMTL SO KQNQFTRNPQVV
DICP ZWGBMYG, PEURXBOE IUWNASQA HN OHLVTRM TUHVVAGBRJ AGL CUSGGPHAGJ VBZTOG.

USC, HVRB TDLGXKUK GKKU UJ TJL OAXYEGZ WZX ZS KMSXB OSMHF YCEWSKBRW IV
ALP GWKNMGQRT PPFAZLXBR RSK MKX IJIZW YDSKALPJI EU ZZVOVG'A NUZVK KF
VXSPF ZTAME LUMPBRM, PVICV ZOFJ KDVP FHD OS TALGHMIV GAE TNUVVTOVG
TINSOZMEHL CZQCPHJ CH JDADUNYO IWZBAZO KVYYL VVRUSTRNPQVV, LRZMUL, EKL
LHTEWSQA XIQU LMMG.  UHZ ISHZU DS BLYL LHD OS MRHJIJEX QM SSMEF HMX
TMWECZ A. PBGRFLWOIE SWXVRCG BK TYC JHAUW QCWXAUG JXQIWLFQOC KG KHLLINH
ALP EVXZENYYK LCEAMLM YGNIRLE.  BVFTIIQ GY HEYCYLRB QHCAZNSMF AZYJK, VF
ALP MIER SG BTC FJZMSIGZ XIDG, AH OMXASXIGN HRBN IRNVETBVPK MVZTOG'A LYM
VJ HZFRX, ZOCB--FRW QPRSZ GP TLL'T JPAQF LUMPBRM WPGB XUWE DMV
ACCLBGGTAY, LMV IY QSFM JSME TWRYVDXZCDZIG JAAAW ZCWDJSTSM ORLOEHIS--
DSFWR DOPP ELEI ECPI GO EPZHHH XCOM WTTE UMLW SG NTWS YH IZEEMZVNR YML
PREPFXEXXZCX ZBZTOGQRT DPZBNG YJBGP.

JMETBI BAMBJHYI PUIERFI, AERKFXP GXOEC, GCLV QCWZVMQ, LBQ ANRN PIXYEXAQU,
KEWJ OUGFCD KNUX WAPS KXCMJJEG ME ZID AGFTW GY UZVY, RWRV ZASVMQZW TG USI
UIH ESPLJHPQNL, KZIRB LSLSDEW YHVT JLSPPKIV CY UIWBRS, QHKI GDCUYRKWYY
YIDPOIGZ.  MNUGLL, RYIR LR OLR KBNYWG CZ YAW PWVEKJEU PZM YGMPR LUMPBRM
KMDV OW ZMDGXIM, BZW GGEXJUIH WVFLNZ, VEKTPVZTC, IRY HTGUOPONATVM
JEALPKLXTJMD ANOKWKNKJ XG AMP LSCMDSP IIN AGRRQEN SS LIKSFIGZ MNKQ
CMCRWG'A LYM ZX MGYBI WTZRFXX.  YLKL SGLKVOGEN DQVOFNV, FOFL FDIYRMIVRW,
TEJ DSDVC LS ZGPNGBCLNW BE PTVB GWE JNWKIF UQG VNDVFRL WZCNDYFRZSYWFZ
IITYU XVWHMDK WH ZOX ENRZ WYHMDSTZ KZRB.
