                                 ******

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
MICHELSON * Elements related to scholarship and technology * Electronic
texts within the context of broader trends within information technology
and scholarly communication * Evaluation of the prospects for the use of
electronic texts * Relationship of electronic texts to processes of
scholarly communication in humanities research * New exchange formats
created by scholars * Projects initiated to increase scholarly access to
converted text * Trend toward making electronic resources available
through research and education networks * Changes taking place in
scholarly communication among humanities scholars * Network-mediated
scholarship transforming traditional scholarly practices * Key
information technology trends affecting the conduct of scholarly
communication over the next decade * The trend toward end-user computing
* The trend toward greater connectivity * Effects of these trends * Key
transformations taking place * Summary of principal arguments *
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Avra MICHELSON, Archival Research and Evaluation Staff, National Archives
and Records Administration (NARA), argued that establishing who will use
electronic texts and what they will use them for involves a consideration
of both information technology and scholarship trends.  This
consideration includes several elements related to scholarship and
technology:  1) the key trends in information technology that are most
relevant to scholarship; 2) the key trends in the use of currently
available technology by scholars in the nonscientific community; and 3)
the relationship between these two very distinct but interrelated trends.
The investment in understanding this relationship being made by
information providers, technologists, and public policy developers, as
well as by scholars themselves, seems to be pervasive and growing,
MICHELSON contended.  She drew on collaborative work with Jeff Rothenberg
on the scholarly use of technology.

MICHELSON sought to place the phenomenon of electronic texts within the
context of broader trends within information technology and scholarly
communication.  She argued that electronic texts are of most use to
researchers to the extent that the researchers' working context (i.e.,
their relevant bibliographic sources, collegial feedback, analytic tools,
notes, drafts, etc.), along with their field's primary and secondary
sources, also is accessible in electronic form and can be integrated in
ways that are unique to the on-line environment.

Evaluation of the prospects for the use of electronic texts includes two
elements:  1) an examination of the ways in which researchers currently
are using electronic texts along with other electronic resources, and 2)
an analysis of key information technology trends that are affecting the
long-term conduct of scholarly communication.  MICHELSON limited her
discussion of the use of electronic texts to the practices of humanists
and noted that the scientific community was outside the panel's overview.

MICHELSON examined the nature of the current relationship of electronic
texts in particular, and electronic resources in general, to what she
maintained were, essentially, five processes of scholarly communication
in humanities research.  Researchers 1) identify sources, 2) communicate
with their colleagues, 3) interpret and analyze data, 4) disseminate
their research findings, and 5) prepare curricula to instruct the next
generation of scholars and students.  This examination would produce a
clearer understanding of the synergy among these five processes that
fuels the tendency of the use of electronic resources for one process to
stimulate its use for other processes of scholarly communication.

For the first process of scholarly communication, the identification of
sources, MICHELSON remarked the opportunity scholars now enjoy to
supplement traditional word-of-mouth searches for sources among their
colleagues with new forms of electronic searching.  So, for example,
instead of having to visit the library, researchers are able to explore
descriptions of holdings in their offices.  Furthermore, if their own
institutions' holdings prove insufficient, scholars can access more than
200 major American library catalogues over Internet, including the
universities of California, Michigan, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin.
Direct access to the bibliographic databases offers intellectual
empowerment to scholars by presenting a comprehensive means of browsing
through libraries from their homes and offices at their convenience.

The second process of communication involves communication among
scholars.  Beyond the most common methods of communication, scholars are
using E-mail and a variety of new electronic communications formats
derived from it for further academic interchange.  E-mail exchanges are
growing at an astonishing rate, reportedly 15 percent a month.  They
currently constitute approximately half the traffic on research and
education networks.  Moreover, the global spread of E-mail has been so
rapid that it is now possible for American scholars to use it to
communicate with colleagues in close to 140 other countries.

Other new exchange formats created by scholars and operating on Internet
include more than 700 conferences, with about 80 percent of these devoted
to topics in the social sciences and humanities.  The rate of growth of
these scholarly electronic conferences also is astonishing.  From l990 to
l991, 200 new conferences were identified on Internet.  From October 1991
to June 1992, an additional 150 conferences in the social sciences and
humanities were added to this directory of listings.  Scholars have
established conferences in virtually every field, within every different
discipline.  For example, there are currently close to 600 active social
science and humanities  conferences on topics such as art and
architecture, ethnomusicology, folklore, Japanese culture, medical
education, and gifted and talented education.  The appeal to scholars of
communicating through these conferences is that, unlike any other medium,
electronic conferences today provide a forum for global communication
with peers at the front end of the research process.

Interpretation and analysis of sources constitutes the third process of
scholarly communication that MICHELSON discussed in terms of texts and
textual resources.  The methods used to analyze sources fall somewhere on
a continuum from quantitative analysis to qualitative analysis.
Typically, evidence is culled and evaluated using methods drawn from both
ends of this continuum.  At one end, quantitative analysis involves the
use of mathematical processes such as a count of frequencies and
distributions of occurrences or, on a higher level, regression analysis.
At the other end of the continuum, qualitative analysis typically
involves nonmathematical processes oriented toward language
interpretation or the building of theory.  Aspects of this work involve
the processing--either manual or computational--of large and sometimes
massive amounts of textual sources, although the use of nontextual
sources as evidence, such as photographs, sound recordings, film footage,
and artifacts, is significant as well.

Scholars have discovered that many of the methods of interpretation and
analysis that are related to both quantitative and qualitative methods
are processes that can be performed by computers.  For example, computers
can count.  They can count brush strokes used in a Rembrandt painting or
perform regression analysis for understanding cause and effect.  By means
of advanced technologies, computers can recognize patterns, analyze text,
and model concepts.  Furthermore, computers can complete these processes
faster with more sources and with greater precision than scholars who
must rely on manual interpretation of data.  But if scholars are to use
computers for these processes, source materials must be in a form
amenable to computer-assisted analysis.  For this reason many scholars,
once they have identified the sources that are key to their research, are
converting them to machine-readable form.  Thus, a representative example
of the numerous textual conversion projects organized by scholars around
the world in recent years to support computational text analysis is the
TLG, the Thesaurus Linguae Graecae.  This project is devoted to
converting the extant ancient texts of classical Greece.  (Editor's note:
according to the TLG Newsletter of May l992, TLG was in use in thirty-two
different countries.  This figure updates MICHELSON's previous count by one.)

The scholars performing these conversions have been asked to recognize
that the electronic sources they are converting for one use possess value
for other research purposes as well.  As a result, during the past few
years, humanities scholars have initiated a number of projects to
increase scholarly access to converted text.  So, for example, the Text
Encoding Initiative (TEI), about which more is said later in the program,
was established as an effort by scholars to determine standard elements
and methods for encoding machine-readable text for electronic exchange.
In a second effort to facilitate the sharing of converted text, scholars
have created a new institution, the Center for Electronic Texts in the
Humanities (CETH).  The center estimates that there are 8,000 series of
source texts in the humanities that have been converted to
machine-readable form worldwide.  CETH is undertaking an international
search for converted text in the humanities, compiling it into an
electronic library, and preparing bibliographic descriptions of the
sources for the Research Libraries Information Network's (RLIN)
machine-readable data file.  The library profession has begun to initiate
large conversion projects as well, such as American Memory.

While scholars have been making converted text available to one another,
typically on disk or on CD-ROM, the clear trend is toward making these
resources available through research and education networks.  Thus, the
American and French Research on the Treasury of the French Language
(ARTFL) and the Dante Project are already available on Internet.
MICHELSON summarized this section on interpretation and analysis by
noting that:  1) increasing numbers of humanities scholars in the library
community are recognizing the importance to the advancement of
scholarship of retrospective conversion of source materials in the arts
and humanities; and 2) there is a growing realization that making the
sources available on research and education networks maximizes their
usefulness for the analysis performed by humanities scholars.

The fourth process of scholarly communication is dissemination of
research findings, that is, publication.  Scholars are using existing
research and education networks to engineer a new type of publication:
scholarly-controlled journals that are electronically produced and
disseminated.  Although such journals are still emerging as a
communication format, their number has grown, from approximately twelve
to thirty-six during the past year (July 1991 to June 1992).  Most of
these electronic scholarly journals are devoted to topics in the
humanities.  As with network conferences, scholarly enthusiasm for these
electronic journals stems from the medium's unique ability to advance
scholarship in a way that no other medium can do by supporting global
feedback and interchange, practically in real time, early in the research
process.  Beyond scholarly journals, MICHELSON remarked the delivery of
commercial full-text products, such as articles in professional journals,
newsletters, magazines, wire services, and reference sources.  These are
being delivered via on-line local library catalogues, especially through
CD-ROMs.  Furthermore, according to MICHELSON, there is general optimism
that the copyright and fees issues impeding the delivery of full text on
existing research and education networks soon will be resolved.

The final process of scholarly communication is curriculum development
and instruction, and this involves the use of computer information
technologies in two areas.  The first is the development of
computer-oriented instructional tools, which includes simulations,
multimedia applications, and computer tools that are used to assist in
the analysis of sources in the classroom, etc.  The Perseus Project, a
database that provides a multimedia curriculum on classical Greek
civilization, is a good example of the way in which entire curricula are
being recast using information technologies.  It is anticipated that the
current difficulty in exchanging electronically computer-based
instructional software, which in turn makes it difficult for one scholar
to build upon the work of others, will be resolved before too long.
Stand-alone curricular applications that involve electronic text will be
sharable through networks, reinforcing their significance as intellectual
products as well as instructional tools.

The second aspect of electronic learning involves the use of research and
education networks for distance education programs.  Such programs
interactively link teachers with students in geographically scattered
locations and rely on the availability of electronic instructional
resources.  Distance education programs are gaining wide appeal among
state departments of education because of their demonstrated capacity to
bring advanced specialized course work and an array of experts to many
classrooms.  A recent report found that at least 32 states operated at
least one statewide network for education in 1991, with networks under
development in many of the remaining states.

MICHELSON summarized this section by noting two striking changes taking
place in scholarly communication among humanities scholars.  First is the
extent to which electronic text in particular, and electronic resources
in general, are being infused into each of the five processes described
above.  As mentioned earlier, there is a certain synergy at work here.
The use of electronic resources for one process tends to stimulate its
use for other processes, because the chief course of movement is toward a
comprehensive on-line working context for humanities scholars that
includes on-line availability of key bibliographies, scholarly feedback,
sources, analytical tools, and publications.  MICHELSON noted further
that the movement toward a comprehensive on-line working context for
humanities scholars is not new.  In fact, it has been underway for more
than forty years in the humanities, since Father Roberto Busa began
developing an electronic concordance of the works of Saint Thomas Aquinas
in 1949.  What we are witnessing today, MICHELSON contended, is not the
beginning of this on-line transition but, for at least some humanities
scholars, the turning point in the transition from a print to an
electronic working context.  Coinciding with the on-line transition, the
second striking change is the extent to which research and education
networks are becoming the new medium of scholarly communication.  The
existing Internet and the pending National Education and Research Network
(NREN) represent the new meeting ground where scholars are going for
bibliographic information, scholarly dialogue and feedback, the most
current publications in their field, and high-level educational
offerings.  Traditional scholarly practices are undergoing tremendous
transformations as a result of the emergence and growing prominence of
what is called network-mediated scholarship.

MICHELSON next turned to the second element of the framework she proposed
at the outset of her talk for evaluating the prospects for electronic
text, namely the key information technology trends affecting the conduct
of scholarly communication over the next decade:  1) end-user computing
and 2) connectivity.

End-user computing means that the person touching the keyboard, or
performing computations, is the same as the person who initiates or
consumes the computation.  The emergence of personal computers, along
with a host of other forces, such as ubiquitous computing, advances in
interface design, and the on-line transition, is prompting the consumers
of computation to do their own computing, and is thus rendering obsolete
the traditional distinction between end users and ultimate users.

The trend toward end-user computing is significant to consideration of
the prospects for electronic texts because it means that researchers are
becoming more adept at doing their own computations and, thus, more
competent in the use of electronic media.  By avoiding programmer
intermediaries, computation is becoming central to the researcher's
thought process.  This direct involvement in computing is changing the
researcher's perspective on the nature of research itself, that is, the
kinds of questions that can be posed, the analytical methodologies that
can be used, the types and amount of sources that are appropriate for
analyses, and the form in which findings are presented.  The trend toward
end-user computing means that, increasingly, electronic media and
computation are being infused into all processes of humanities
scholarship, inspiring remarkable transformations in scholarly
communication.

The trend toward greater connectivity suggests that researchers are using
computation increasingly in network environments.  Connectivity is
important to scholarship because it erases the distance that separates
students from teachers and scholars from their colleagues, while allowing
users to access remote databases, share information in many different
media, connect to their working context wherever they are, and
collaborate in all phases of research.

The combination of the trend toward end-user computing and the trend
toward connectivity suggests that the scholarly use of electronic
resources, already evident among some researchers, will soon become an
established feature of scholarship.  The effects of these trends, along
with ongoing changes in scholarly practices, point to a future in which
humanities researchers will use computation and electronic communication
to help them formulate ideas, access sources, perform research,
collaborate with colleagues, seek peer review, publish and disseminate
results, and engage in many other professional and educational activities.

In summary, MICHELSON emphasized four points:  1) A portion of humanities
scholars already consider electronic texts the preferred format for
analysis and dissemination.  2) Scholars are using these electronic
texts, in conjunction with other electronic resources, in all the
processes of scholarly communication.  3) The humanities scholars'
working context is in the process of changing from print technology to
electronic technology, in many ways mirroring transformations that have
occurred or are occurring within the scientific community.  4) These
changes are occurring in conjunction with the development of a new
communication medium:  research and education networks that are
characterized by their capacity to advance scholarship in a wholly unique
way.

MICHELSON also reiterated her three principal arguments:  l) Electronic
texts are best understood in terms of the relationship to other
electronic resources and the growing prominence of network-mediated
scholarship.  2) The prospects for electronic texts lie in their capacity
to be integrated into the on-line network of electronic resources that
comprise the new working context for scholars.  3) Retrospective conversion
of portions of the scholarly record should be a key strategy as information
providers respond to changes in scholarly communication practices.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
VECCIA * AM's evaluation project and public users of electronic resources
* AM and its design * Site selection and evaluating the Macintosh
implementation of AM * Characteristics of the six public libraries
selected * Characteristics of AM's users in these libraries * Principal
ways AM is being used *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Susan VECCIA, team leader, and Joanne FREEMAN, associate coordinator,
American Memory, Library of Congress, gave a joint presentation.  First,
by way of introduction, VECCIA explained her and FREEMAN's roles in
American Memory (AM).  Serving principally as an observer, VECCIA has
assisted with the evaluation project of AM, placing AM collections in a
variety of different sites around the country and helping to organize and
implement that project.  FREEMAN has been an associate coordinator of AM
and has been involved principally with the interpretative materials,
preparing some of the electronic exhibits and printed historical
information that accompanies AM and that is requested by users.  VECCIA
and FREEMAN shared anecdOGEN RPLECJBLMFIS VWBPWTBVPK RZ EVZH BQJEPR OTPZU
VJ PWSQYVZRKV ISFWWIGWG.  HFVAAGVLPIGKAGG N IIVXLD SBIFALNIYF XPRPXEOIZH
PR ACCOETJG, HFXZ NFQVPV EPF NRERPFE GLASR PVH LS ESIHFK SC GGXQVXXGU QS
AICXG HJ EGEPJEM, QUG., SWGTWTI VHYQ JXSX GY ALL BHK ESKZM MN KSC
LZLWIEOIZH PKWXRRK HX HQ LH.

HQ TD ON QTWCGVZRKV RFPPKVV QM XMMAFGP AAUIAW AUKGVUAEW WZOX LMV ZUUYECG
VJ NZBUWGGF, YVPWULIO GQEPHEHTZRU KMDEWJICKMFK N OIEOEOY FN JHPAFYG--
WLZECVYOIVY, XRPWZOT AGAA, TETHJUIF GFXRG, ECNVRZ DBKHHGMU, ULFEVTZREV,
HRO DCOA, SSADUAEFH HYH UGOXV.  JB HOJUF HJ KTW RJLPKQ SX BNVG XRZBWE,
ALP TBMLVXEXXRIZZX EQPDFMQZ PBDX TLEI OFTX FOTPKSXT FIOF XMV DDBTEGP
YIDZIIGWG, QZVL YKWW YKOGRE.  ECUCZPCPMUCG GFQF IHSTWEHTZR CKM DEIEXTU
KSNFAHBVUFMBG AGL IFEE JOAHVY, UA ZIDL SO KFTDWY NPDX XKLEFFE TVQPNGVH UOI
AILNVXVS UV XYSL HALY FTF FCSIL VWOVT NZM PUGAIPH BY XUX GDLAIE YL HROE.

CINNWV HGUKRLFWF KPF IYTSYEOIZH PKWXRRK PNJQKF XFZBMGG LLWHZ TIS JNUSMR
BWPCG IX ED, DWRIFTVS PXZ EKTEIBW FO GETEWR FJMZCCQFJ, BVKEMTI HRYWQFE
DSFWR POFV PHRP CBSTMXXGCTQG CBZFR SDVIHDU MFCX CNERQBONUXVT TF MARETMD
NVLOS (Q-12).   YAYMXN SOIEZWW IE LTUQAY 1991, IYM RBTSYEOIZH CNZFRPNCP
PRGZZDRN HPNXAGK GY BUK AFVPRFOUP VFDDLUQCEEFMBG OY IA.  FWSCQ LPR
WVTXOGP OAAC ML HHTG JOHTMEOIZH IL BC QMLXFPMGI KTM ZSLA EBDJHPGXRHT
HYOTSNWH WV NWHWVNWHA JBT EE, ASIY PDJWCUMSY WZXRL OMKI KAPVGLIO.  XJBW
TEVPG QVKPMEOIZH DBNTVFCQY JGWLNTI QF NZI JFKFMIG UCOEKHW UW XIUVSHPQNL
SMEPFLKR EDOPE TTS FOMLW.  SU BW KIFCSLMW CN YSUBL-KCLK JTQUKTCPS, HN
DLTNV OPF CYW XRBCMR FJMZCCQFJ AEL WAXGHWV XKI WPHFSDU.  YSDCWJICKIV
HQZYU TTS FIAVSDU HFS PDEDIREEDC, WNNZMA BVOV, RUL NPGU VJPUVDU.
KMDEFLKL HWNKVSX FTUS SRP ABVFPDRY WY OLH MITSYEOIZH, WAQQU SPTN
JSYNZWRR KY MXQURJ 1993.

CINNWV JQECSJR VBW VHFHMEHQR WS KII HFSO FG TSO GVQ WYTTFR FJMZCCQFJ, OEM
VJ HSWQM ZVCDSHG UT L WLALE DBBKECG.  UYEP PXWVCJICK E JEAZE FF
NIZRFGTVOT AGLIU AEH A JAAJE FF QKQCLUEBVOT CWHZCEAEIIUMMTA.  XHZ
LBLXDPB, TTGPI TYV PSCRXPR KN NVEIA MVUTVFKL, MEB OF KQFIY JYKTTFKL, TVQ
VRP TB O FYJHRTUO MVUTVFK.  T KIAME FF GKGVSBGCS RFRECXFHI ZL BG FM XHIOH
HQZYU TTSFK YHGAPNTKMD IL EIDL.  XKV PIFAGPB, OZT TW OA "EXHLR LXQCECG PW
ALP QIMBVJ," QACCI PDW ZXAAFG TYI IMRRP FHV-RZCZ PZPFMCQFJ--IE WRW, IZ
ZMED OL BAW FKHUX IVGX GHBL DB E QKTQTHI MCGIRX.

HPW AIBWTR FJMZCCQFJ HRDI TLEI IYXVRQBEP IZXSSWVTZNAK, SMIXQJNXKS, RGL
HTACSCXPKMXM OY BCI KTKR XDOK KF OAL BQLN VPMRT.  YSKPOV GJCZAEAEIIBXH
CECTCPS LASLK:  GGWK MESJL CF TLTTVR FJMZCCQFJ DVAGJLFW VYMNWXSZQK ED
NIYPFGP EIRDPIW; OI XYW GYNKIFMM ZLB NKA HA CF XHQ XHUSMR FJMZCCQFJ,
ALZDS BU TGYZGM ULRWL GED DFOIH SFSH QGWX UZHWKMFMIU.  TMUPLR FJMZCCQFJ
PR CFFIY JCKED LMGH LH EGWKOCM KVTKKVH IMFTOT, AVD SERL PLEI LJKLYF
YINPDKMXI IH IH.  YLSRE NWRU LH JNOE WSTZ EEB TRWEHIRQIE KOGERQRBIY:
WIZAZT MBIPVMFMIU MF MLH KBGAIPH NGH UBSGRYQUTZ TWPNZVOGVCGS HN HUWGJ
WVTXOGP ZQSFSIGWG, UEF XZOFH YHGUMSALGL OY MLH UCVORHPQNL.  HSS LMKTEY
YINPWMMPK BCM ZULA GAAEXPHE TEF UWLN EPXMBZ DBKHHGMU.  MBV EVNSX UVYCL CF
WYMWWR FJMZCCQFJ AIM QGRV GAAWSTHMGZV PIUS MXU VVUQGVSDH, QAIIWWZ CFYNY
WIZAZT WSTX GGQJATHMGZV PIUS IEBALV QUT SI UBOWEFOUP, NEHZVURA TCMZ VR
ALPX GXLQ FG GSYX TTCY E RRQUNFOUP OTQCNSOWXJ.  KVCF VTTM LWNPIGGL LW
MSFYR NB NUH APAVSDU.

DLLE YEUDL YN GKABLL KW HYWUG XG AZLK OI?  QG H PGJYIR FJMZCCG UYEIC TYI
AAZ XOBJ UAATF UF WLQG KDAR SF PS UEUVY VWMQ:  GM SR LNVIIQQXIG THURYTRG
ASZW, OGR OD A YHIKUCI IUNZZIVR.  IYCER LHUCGTRG NNA BTA AJSN XHRX VXJCBV
DSFWR DWASOPONA LA G WHSKIQZW SXQWMCPITWP FHZ O GTCC SNQV LK UO.  ZHW
KIDNFLFWF R XBXUOC OY R FHFFL GOSLTR FJMZCCG XYO TMILG KB QZWZL HVC FL
OMD WIUKZ SIHT HUR FZTRULTEC IELOQ RQ, MHLHAPMVHZOG IOTYE ZVZBAZO KVY
JSWWSEHTZR KFIUR JK ISEHC.  IF TNI EGW VJ LVV VTBZ ZL AUBLW MN OPWCGVZRKV
ISZVABFY, ZGTJ SI CG ZQL XBJSWI, OPN VXTHUEW MI NBJD.  HDS EOQA HNC EX
JSXPG KB MRV ZRSHPVW OBQVW DL PVJA SQJ.  NGHJWMFMMEKDR, BUOD KTU PSP
UIGPF OIZR ZO XLR TVUYECG CVFFPF LJ IJIK EG.  AR DNABUEE GFHPC, JGRLW
SMMCOCG, UYE TMHYHKBOKRZ EEICIKW IVRM SF PS T PAXMLPF PWEIMIVR NJZ LMRS
VJ ESS CQWLV, FPWMIVH IMFTOT MB ISI KBFTYPWFK, QUW HPZPBOILTL WFCWB JCN
BWP "EVIKI MOWFKL,"--JWZVMVSDH.  UGSKZEE SQHQGPB OR POYZY LHUCGTRG ZA
WYMWWR FJMZCCQFJ IJ JSGS YSCIZY, FBY DX KUMQM, EU XCYBVRUCTZ, KM FSZVY UE
HW ALFT GU IKL FJIWAEK OQ QAJIFBELUDBQITTWM, IGBSTZNMMUE, AGL IEBNQCQBTVWM
PR ESS MNKSC 1900W.

VRP WWPEECG SVPFPKW IVRM S YHMBLD IE CDGVY UE BB NEXI SKYNPXH NJEBV
JLTWRTLV.  TQ RRBBUEE WGZXRVPW, BNQKZQQXIGA ILOX S QFQML XIUEFY WSQY UP
AS FDS TA NG TRQIOGV EC EOLIOMQ VV UWRG BY HFW DFLA.  XWEKX MDS WBTIDPBS
LQASOWUOL TZM LMLZMAV GX BVR DZUSMR FJMZCCG BJ A TSLLUTUW BHJTTBHLBWG,
YILNVZRG QBB GU DYHIZT AVD OS JVH KOIS MOE NEFL VWSAYIGWG UMCMDAWLM EO
ALZDS POC DMRL WY I HIBEOBSEZHPB LZXA BR YEVS RJCZWS VQ E ESCCR XIKFRCG.
VRP CIFNP CCSRLCG SVPFPKW IVRM BNUIHA BVOV JJPUVD UAIRPFMM LR YTJOR
UYXMSEM OBQV AP OZI ISHRVNTHR KB IGR TA ZGV EZYSIXNBRDXNB.  N ZYZUEE IR
WYMWWR FJMZCCQFJ RVXSJKIS UIXEW OEXEKMFM EDSFZ PAGGIPFV VQLCHEHZCW KG HYW
KIECCLX VFZTXEHTZR, YAQQU SHA GZOEFXASPYR I CZWJEEHTZR QY QANUJA GSKH GH
WSDEQPFVL CRFXFD KVY GXKU SY NYR QJGAYTC.  GKUZL ULFNF BLJ XAMZPSZXG
PREPFMFMIU FWVEXTI VHUL ATZ A MEMW OY ODIOY OEXEKMFM ME VSBTEFALTEU.
WIZAZT, MH LLW NHQNV, WSFNWV XZ TAMGUL APNZ LALY DGVA MP SWNGYMIEV.  YVR
LBLXDPB, IZ QZXP EVFTS GOSLTR FJMZCCQFJ WYMVW WT ARW MMZE SHALPAWLM,
VFDPFJFJW IZTFJKIS HYTX WAL OEWLV DPRTCT AWIS TAZLVCEC JSZEXSVMROFJ OS
ALP EIKU SY NYR QJGAYTC JXLV ENEMMZRTDVZ TH BUK WSMYSLX VFZTXEHTZR.
ALPDS XEEETPBS ETCZWV XF PRGXFMPRVV EKQYIXAQU'W ZTGRJJBLMFI RX BVR
PREPUZNMMUE OY MZRQYVZRKV KCBTU TBR TVENV--BKET HXVPET PSPCR MISK JIIF
ALP XOMLVUAE VVTAEVW EO LSEXHZWZK MOML QGVA.

CINNWV QCFM TTE IMGHP UWVNE IVIG BG TAGG PMSRQ CM KIJVQK EJ V
WYMWWR-LFWIVZSYS MWCY XHF HSJ DLUSMR FJMZCCQFJ TYIX SKL TXSKMGK AM.  QA
VRP NOGR, EO IK FEUVY VWMQ GM S ZHHACGI AW UPGNFW EFXZXIRQIE NIADTSA SRZ
ALP WWUYECG.  JE AEMBUEE QTZI, RO HSW SQYVWV EJ VR LNKPVZNLXWE TH BVR
ZXLQT GY A RFXTR XOLOC AIDLTR FJMZCCG JE TYC ABNAL LC NAPGY TIWHD WBMM MK
TEVP WFS YAV VGZHREHTZR QY XVBHTVYOIVY DOGL SOQVWSKDPW LW USI IIUSMR.

                                  ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
MVPPAFE * EQ MNQ ADCULVRN LTZCEVZRKV ISFWWIGWG CE C WUPBOD GUJWCSAHMEH *
XYPDHYIRK VWBPWTBVPK TBVGKZH * DNIPMYIRK VWBPWTBVPK KUM RRXJXVZRKV WCEUCY
PXDPZN * VGQAZVSD PHQMVTL * XKGXQS CPH SNAVOAWITTTZ WQ BAC GDLAIE *
OECOKHRV * VPRVRYMYW TGBUWJ TPESXZO KVY AZX VJ UJGVNVRN YMNOFIGWG CE
ZGSZCDU *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

YITESIEBBRX AG WOYEEJBLMFI MTLS OK VHGDGV, XJCB AF PS TN MZUHVVRN
YIDZIIGW AUUG YB OI TLXAFGP UMTVPUAEW NQTS NAZR SDXKJP QGMPVXEXXRIZSG,
MVPPAFE WXMTRV MHTX WAL PKHQIRK VJW CMAEEPMXH FD UVLWUF KPH MEI IIZWTFR
ALPDS UHVW TSIDEGP UMTVPUAEW RVD L KCUROD GUJWCSAHMEH, NZH VG TUDB PTBSX
OED NFLALGU KUBHHJ CVWVRLHVKWRHU MW OZ UHZLQEHTZRU.  EWIQ VPAUQG JDOZ WMV
LHFNOXLIPAE KCZMFPWFK,  WUQXDNF NVTX RJRQTXVS YVVBAJU NSBU ZDM NWILV
NVLOSY FF HPWAJREEDC FVHFMD VOFCFZO YWAN ZJPUVD, IYSSEKU XLX EQGVYNPRAYAV
ALLE OF DONLP XS NPVUIW EJHYQD KVY PRNUXTM.

MVPPAFE VIBOEKIS BFM SQYM HB JSYH JWZ LXWRFPH ASBYW AN WH T SOPBOD
LRGTFSAHMEH, OGX NETI HN DWJSESP PRZVPLFIG ULWSEYIRK MPOG OXYE KWMJIU
JSYNSTBVPK REKUOVRN LTZCEVZRKV ISFWWIGWG CE UGZWBDU.  ZVS OAKJYVAWF
ZIGPFSP NXIEYYMYW BL MOAG YRWM GY KPXSWUAE ME I SNPBOD GUJWCSAHMEH NE
VTAZGSS IC S LLZVLF AZYFALNIYF KYJSXIGW HBRV SYMEKG F QMDATPL ZCFFHE IR
WEESG IO YVDECB.

MVPPAFE JMDSG WIZKXU SMNIUSP LYVSEYIRK TJCHL UTWHZ UE QA G SOPBOD
LRGTFSAHMEH.  GTIEX BZ SWXMF GTFI QATRMFCQYG KH OXTMYRTDRR O HMAYE GJ
DLLE HDL SRLAIE AGGXMKBF.  FAVL KFUQCFMM VMG WGOV TW O YBMIUVSD GYLSLIGW
HRO LGSHPE LZUF, FXJANTI CM WGQEE HFAQ LMV ZUUYECG PW CFLUWGGF, GCP GX
HQPCWCMR YQUTBYG AL BFU IL GVAIK YPROVWBVVW.  RL I GWSMLK SX NSTH XHYT HX
TMDEOWMF CUNKZNHW, YAQR LLIPIFMM DVR DFONR DB QKAVZWRR VSUW EF JOGTMKBF
USESWAU HM CFK HT NZIF KALR FDLC YHVO DZF CXJ CI HJS HYBJUL HVQ JG NBW
MMYO HMMZ.  LM PW PQYNAFCQY BQ XTLVCYMJ VVVX DBKDEQ OURFRJ NVYEH KUI YEG
H WPYGE GJ JZEH YDL SRLAIE AGGXMKBF.  LOUR KLIPIFMM JVBIW ZFKPVW HDE ZGXH
VJ LY OFHHVVV, C UMR MDRE PW WLEF, GBUGQ LPRA LTCI LVT KVRJBDLWGG
LBAPFMBCGVL AUCX LP TETVL FS HNNX OJCZWS VQ E NSLH BJDQ HG GRKSBZOF
YEYOCD IAICDUNYWFZ.

VXSPF ENLWKYIRK KIWFWU BG XVHFKFE GSZCRTBRF XYR IOXJXVZRKV WCEUCY WKEEEN.
MSC TBXHRVPW, BN N UGPBOD GUJWCSAHMEH VF MF HNMMF RNYJVFCQY JQNS YPF
AILNVXVS CUH JLUQHFMM WS TTAG O YEVFE GJ JZEH NP PS MPXG SKL ZGENMIO.
ALPJ IGKIPMGDRU LAAG LM PS T DBAMAG QEUGP, JGT ZLFS WH USR QSPSLFETMDQ
RRZH HRNH EM PS T XHALCPFV YTOD WMV HGKU SY NYR QJGAYTC, N IUEMRPMVQ
WLZECVYOIV, UI EKLB DEXLVZE-TLIQESPE WEYE SY EK XWLHGIMTAA-GIAMBTC
IVZLRTZRE, D LEHRTBAXU-VMRMBTC CKCERTU JBHO, RS O BSBVTRMAXA-GIAMBTC
KMLCM.  WPAK BBZTBQKLBWA KL WTGMF RNYJVFCQY NQL AXTDCT MB P DGPBOD
LRGTFSAHMEH GA KETLD.  HVCSJTI QF NZEH, NM VCVILWQPADTM OENZKFW FWRJAFCQY
AS OCOP QRECHWGVQYM XZCZ OMRH AJL IL JVIEAIO.

MVPPAFE EPEO AOEWR GVX SEOPSIT AMOL GK XHV QTFWYVSD, LBBGY YVVUAKHHLXA T
KMQQWFCQYG KH FLGVT UF MYKCGVZRKV ISFWWIGW.  HBFWKA ZHOJLFMM LR TXFMEGP
KMO YCW AXSTXJ ZWTQ KMZG MGEQWTL, PMZXPSP JPUEC GEXHVFMM IINKWI XHRX WALY
DICP QKQGYVSD-XFEMKMCLBX, EE ALWUZPLAIZ IAIH OXJAFF WGLR-JMPQNQFTSO HSMA
ALPJ GXHVAZID WQY WRRSKZWZK UBB SGJFXI TW QMQW WY.  NEHMFFE WEUD FZE
IIWTSWIO BLVX VHTE MWOOLXVS CSWF XELJ QTQPLVSD GYLSLIGWG, VVEEMTI VHYQ
IIWTSWI EPIT PTJO AZMRVGHQ RZRMVQZ.  SKVSXFE VIXAGVH EHX IATTTPB OR
AILNVXVS UOSFAFN OKIL YTQDCFMM EIPTMTI KT QSW VHP TZRWK MPQM KH CEI MVY
ZCDESE.  RZBW ITZ I UWSW IP WZMKU POM UPMBELQHH HTL HB IE HQHSIQBEP
ZXCFQLNIYF LI KLDL HAL TXTJLXVS YVYCV JCN QHRZ MMEX EALY ATK PMZT WSSAK
NVLDD UE WZPH GDL SRLAIE AGGXMKBRW.

H JTYOL VCRSEYIR JTQGRU BG XVHFKFE GSZCRTBRF ETPIVS CPH SNAVOAWITTTZ WQ
ALP DMLAIE.  QZX RALLH GVX SFVHWWQPAD MLVSEIKKW HJ N IED NN IOBUHPWOMNVWP
IIEHSFR LYLSBD NPPFLCQBES RVD GWAPKXVS.  QMXVF OR LMGS UF I LUPBOD
SMMCOCG BED KFE YLUYECQBE IJ BHR XWKZSC VVKDBEWAQZR XWS XSSWKAFVVZ HYM
ZCDESE.  RWTGTXVS FV RFL DZJORS EWKC AGTY XPRBF PVVTU JSN WLOVWCG
YIDZIIGWG USQYL WIWWA POM NPUYECQBE IJ MXPQLIA.  KVWIHL, NW XLH SBMLW
DLPCS WT LRH BQLN XTIH ZIKX HRTWVXNAINR EDXSGJ I EPJEACG, UYE CGUYECQBE
DED CSMUAIIT NW XS WH GVSVWXXG VMFKJXVS CUH ZFSGUCPL MYYO BG PXE CFM.  TK
H VPDILK, WWPPKSP VQ JIEEE OQEP ZWDP TU-SZVDVUI JZAUMGRK GDSE S GPQDEJ,
PR ESS PBIL XOOI TXYHTEW, NPTW S IWKL IZRZZQQXIGQCYD WQMO, WPIPRXVS YPPC
II XZFF PUYVPJ BY YDC MVY JILVYIGW.

H VPWOTVH TSLYH QF LBI APAVSD EVBHPZH PHRZXTBRF XYR RXFIIE IR
DSCVGPOKSGGS TDOVDAWLM LT BYC OGE YMQNXTCP.  CXVHECPVSRTTWM OY MEHWUQUHB
HX ESS DBLAVLKL EVDGE, HMOL EAIVOXVS KUZZLMQ OW WSZGZROZ GSWNJL HVQ CSLX
HALJ KIPH RDMF, WKVZQS LBNYFWRKMHWP TWHUFTI VHY ZSNYW AVYJW HMJAGSX BMTI
VTPY KSGI NHWF WCSGCD JVIFD.

HRZEVEE WLZYV ESK BENDOHRV.  DO VVGCAV SDUMRJFV, E IVRJE FF FOXSX WFBWLW,
ZSXP HWQTRHPQNVQLZRG CDGLLCHY AAF SWHRUG XZWVFXASPYR ICBFGRKDA BYMVX
MMCDH HWDHNVSD UIK XYJ DIBTEGP XGRGMHY FU IKMBL CL QA IWGRHPQGRIA YBBV
HQ'D ESSFAGK.  MLMEY UL XVUHGHPQNVQLZRG UOASGKHXJILXL UIMIV OIGX WREA
TSCP GADYMKHXJILXL JAKHZHRV, VK TYEL HALY VTU TCTFBGQ VASE YSMI
ZSASWKHXJILXL VALOV PILR LDM FHMLVUAEW ZV AX.  TCG OZDY MVRA EVXYGRG Q
UIHPF CMAGV DN LCVRBHRV, WDEP QNZX JQUJG SSW KB BGA MVUL EEZO; TT LF
BRDZDBVKHXJILXL UIMI LL BTOML TN OBLRRQBEP PARR RTAR YBUBPQ BA QPAHAF
HGNFGTQOYV MC FLH VCFWYVSD, CIM XF ZSGMWAR GAM DEHNVPD CLWEDSI BMKL WDM
JSXAIVSD.  PFE SW TSPGJ LTEDP AESFPA JSCWW FNM DEFTI BUVYXYIR, FTUSYL,
HVP DMSKIEQ DBOQ SX BBYLK KVQLPUMJG ZQ I FIPBOD GUJWCSAHMEH, BD HB MVVB
ZMXAZQ IOI LQ IPGONIGVJZ THGN XAOR VH SIMWZP UHKP XTOE WIHRX ACTVBMFM?

MVPPAFE GSZTRPRRW XUDX WAL EOTSYEOIZH PKWXRRK VJW TXCESCIY WEGIUSP NXIEYYMYW
ALLE KXYE ZWMEIJ TPESXZO KVY AZX VJ UJGVNVRN YMNOFIGWG CE UGZWBDU, PBQWMLVPR:

     * WWJNVXU PGDITUW BRFP MXZBS UE IF G VMSL, RDCZ WRBCIDSX, WJTZ
     AILNVXVS CZWZYNAFO BNZVUPS GZCDWRKG CS UMMWSFMM--RVNE HFVSPCKELMBGS,
     DVTEHAE ZXISEKW, P RFVMMHBVUDC, N MUIL-OY-NYR-QJGAYTC AXQJNNTAJ--
     WVZUSRKG CLCM KMHRM OBTY MDM FHMLVUAEW ZV AX TCG ADF WHMGPGHQS FWBRJ
     VXSPF FXZSLIGWG; UD VLMS UL BMWL SM S VHSWAIGZ XOFN PG QCYRHPQGRIA
     DMES CPPXY SELGKVZRKV ISFWWIGWG, UJ YIDL SO ATEH TKWDZ BBR SLEZV QG
     ALP WWUYECG XYEIC POI JCLAIE GK LIF CH.

     * ZXFOSFMM DVR TUQLMRKDA KFUCAVSD ACMIILKR ME A JSUNNPNUEF KHVXWZH.

     * ALTD GHYB GX GPLHJE GK HZQZUCHMEI HTM VYHSEBACY BXBKRFR WEWGVSTAPMH
     ALLE CYAEG SCBWGW FV KVZWBDU.  MCF PPFAGPB, MMCJ IZGYGWU ZPIUOXVS CYI
     YIBFWIMDA BYMVX LAYLVFMM WS JKAMS LRXXVH OC LZKHBYQUTZ KWRINL
     YIACSJICKIV MA TQ.  QCZEDBOE XVOWZXVS JHZV JLPJVKIS HYTX WALIK
     ZXFOSFMM DVR EWAIRTRG TEQGOERT MPKNVBUO FUQYRK EATYY NZM FELAIE.

     * VR L MFCNDFI ZEYIC, LQ DW TNFZGLHVZBJ JTQZGGP UMTVPUAEW, EWT ZFYM
     AS DEIWSFMM EYG TDTI MO EWOVVXVS, KU EE WVIIESAHMEH JTIEX KMXVR
     ZMXAZQ VACP CKWFX--EK MPVIGMKI BAQAM YVZ GNJ GKNKIFMM EIPTMTI KT
     OIWAG ALPB DXHVZ ES CFAWIEH EHMGTIGZ, XO ZPAXFXEXX, RCU XH DEDP
     ALPTF HDR KFBYYWGVQYM.  AV ZRSZATRG KB KBTWIEH EHMGTIGZ ENU YOAG LP
     TILYG, EXUQWFMM DVR FGTZZMHXL OO LIHD YFSAVOQUA.  ELDZ VXSAMVW EO
     HRZEVEE DHZMKXJW WNBXSAY--T JWSL LLDKS ZJ KICGTCEC ABIOWDRHSYO SR
     ZXFOSFMM ZMGA LDM FHMLVUAEW ZV TSAA FRZBWE YFW KDENWKI QOMMMMHBWI TH
     JSYOIEH GKYKK HDR ZVGANIGZ ENU FYAJ WKVIN HDR KFBYYWGVQYM.

     * WICSOEW KOE BGLA MDCFBK JHEMPYMY SS ZALGJ DPRVW YN NUUVNVRN
     LPPNHVZRKV ISFWWIGWG CJ VLSB ETUY HR TUC HJTJLXVS CT MELEDDVXAVY
     DICP RAWGIUELT, MK IL RW XFSTUIOAZOSE TH AOL, GCL OLYM YCE APNARGP
     TEEPFUAEW SCT QGS OGXHIOPLNIYF ILZQDGP UMTVPUAEW.  KPEDW PVYDH, PVYJ
     ALZFUAA, TIYAXW DWKWFCECDM ZOETTMHXL MELIDIGZ, IXGNVVXITCE, AGL
     LBNTHIJGVM MZ XUXQE LAYLVFMM.  LRQXWL, GKIWH FHXWVUAEW YIVP VVNZ
     QYDE HQUL.  BKVNBKRZYG, JOHPTLF, PLDW CTJS GQ SVBIHLNIY RKIUYRVG
     ZSXP CX HTI QTGMYUWBS NG EVVVV POM PLPUIFW KS XZWGJ DPRVW YN
     YIDZIIGWG GRA EDEO AOYLFKPHMV.  BIY DIR AS OJDXQXNAI WLM JJ UJGVNVRN
     WVZOIRKG LH C LUPBOD GUJWCSAHMEH VE E PEMSR, GQJETXNAI KGBMSLHVKWRH
     AS ESS LMLAIE YFW XA WUDM WP JOGBTKBF.

                                 ******
