
ZIDAR emphasized the importance of de-skewing and filtering as
requirements on NATDP's upgraded system.  For instance, scanning bound
books, particularly books published by the federal government whose pages
are skewed, and trying to scan them straight if OCR is to be performed,
is extremely time-consuming.  The same holds for filtering of
poor-quality or older materials.

ZIDAR described image capture from microform, using as an example three
reels from a sixty-seven-reel set of the papers and letters of George
Washington Carver that had been produced by Tuskegee University.  These
resulted in approximately 3,500 images, which NATDP had had scanned by
its service contractor, Science Applications International Corporation
(SAIC).  NATDP also created bibliographic records for access.  (NATDP did
not have such specialized equipment as a microfilm scanner.

Unfortunately, the process of scanning from microfilm was not an
unqualified success, ZIDAR reported:  because microfilm frame sizes vary,
occasionally some frames were missed, which without spending much time
and money could not be recaptured.

OCR could not be performed from the scanned images of the frames.  The
bleeding in the text simply output text, when OCR was run, that could not
even be edited.  NATDP tested for negative versus positive images,
landscape versus portrait orientation, and single- versus dual-page
microfilm, none of which seemed to affect the quality of the image; but
also on none of them could OCR be performed.

In selecting the microfilm they would use, therefore, NATDP had other
factors in mind.  ZIDAR noted two factors that influenced the quality of
the images:  1) the inherent quality of the original and 2) the amount of
size reduction on the pages.

The Carver papers were selected because they are informative and visually
interesting, treat a single subject, and are valuable in their own right.
The images were scanned and divided into logical records by SAIC, then
delivered, and loaded onto NATDP's system, where bibliographic
information taken directly from the images was added.  Scanning was
completed in summer 1991 and by the end of summer 1992 the disk was
scheduled to be published.

Problems encountered during processing included the following:  Because
the microfilm scanning had to be done in a batch, adjustment for
individual page variations was not possible.  The frame size varied on
account of the nature of the material, and therefore some of the frames
were missed while others were just partial frames.  The only way to go
back and capture this material was to print out the page with the
microfilm reader from the missing frame and then scan it in from the
page, which was extremely time-consuming.  The quality of the images
scanned from the printout of the microfilm compared unfavorably with that
of the original images captured directly from the microfilm.  The
inability to perform OCR also was a major disappointment.  At the time,
computer output microfilm was unavailable to test.

The equipment used for a scanning system was the last topic addressed by
ZIDAR.  The type of equipment that one would purchase for a scanning
system included:  a microcomputer, at least a 386, but preferably a 486;
a large hard disk, 380 megabyte at minimum; a multi-tasking operating
system that allows one to run some things in batch in the background
while scanning or doing text editing, for example, Unix or OS/2 and,
theoretically, Windows; a high-speed scanner and scanning software that
allows one to make the various adjustments mentioned earlier; a
high-resolution monitor (150 dpi ); OCR software and hardware to perform
text recognition; an optical disk subsystem on which to archive all the
images as the processing is done; file management and tracking software.

ZIDAR opined that the software one purchases was more important than the
hardware and might also cost more than the hardware, but it was likely to
prove critical to the success or failure of one's system.  In addition to
a stand-alone scanning workstation for image capture, then, text capture
requires one or two editing stations networked to this scanning station
to perform editing.  Editing the text takes two or three times as long as
capturing the images.

Finally, ZIDAR stressed the importance of buying an open system that allows
for more than one vendor, complies with standards, and can be upgraded.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
WATERS *Yale University Library's master plan to convert microfilm to
digital imagery (POB) * The place of electronic tools in the library of
the future * The uses of images and an image library * Primary input from
preservation microfilm * Features distinguishing POB from CXP and key
hypotheses guiding POB * Use of vendor selection process to facilitate
organizational work * Criteria for selecting vendor * Finalists and
results of process for Yale * Key factor distinguishing vendors *
Components, design principles, and some estimated costs of POB * Role of
preservation materials in developing imaging market * Factors affecting
quality and cost * Factors affecting the usability of complex documents
in image form *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Donald WATERS, head of the Systems Office, Yale University Library,
reported on the progress of a master plan for a project at Yale to
convert microfilm to digital imagery, Project Open Book (POB).  Stating
that POB was in an advanced stage of planning, WATERS detailed, in
particular, the process of selecting a vendor partner and several key
issues under discussion as Yale prepares to move into the project itself.
He commented first on the vision that serves as the context of POB and
then described its purpose and scope.

WATERS sees the library of the future not necessarily as an electronic
library but as a place that generates, preserves, and improves for its
clients ready access to both intellectual and physical recorded
knowledge.  Electronic tools must find a place in the library in the
context of this vision.  Several roles for electronic tools include
serving as:  indirect sources of electronic knowledge or as "finding"
aids (the on-line catalogues, the article-level indices, registers for
documents and archives); direct sources of recorded knowledge; full-text
images; and various kinds of compound sources of recorded knowledge (the
so-called compound documents of Hypertext, mixed text and image,
mixed-text image format, and multimedia).

POB is looking particularly at images and an image library, the uses to
which images will be put (e.g., storage, printing, browsing, and then use
as input for other processes), OCR as a subsequent process to image
capture, or creating an image library, and also possibly generating
microfilm.

While input will come from a variety of sources, POB is considering
especially input from preservation microfilm.  A possible outcome is that
the film and paper which provide the input for the image library
eventually may go off into remote storage, and that the image library may
be the primary access tool.

The purpose and scope of POB focus on imaging.  Though related to CXP,
POB has two features which distinguish it:  1) scale--conversion of
10,000 volumes into digital image form; and 2) source--conversion from
microfilm.  Given these features, several key working hypotheses guide
POB, including:  1) Since POB is using microfilm, it is not concerned with
the image library as a preservation medium.  2) Digital imagery can improve
access to recorded knowledge through printing and network distribution at
a modest incremental cost of microfilm.  3) Capturing and storing documents
in a digital image form is necessary to further improvements in access.
(POB distinguishes between the imaging, digitizing process and OCR,
which at this stage it does not plan to perform.)

Currently in its first or organizational phase, POB found that it could
use a vendor selection process to facilitate a good deal of the
organizational work (e.g., creating a project team and advisory board,
confirming the validity of the plan, establishing the cost of the project
and a budget, selecting the materials to convert, and then raising the
necessary funds).

POB developed numerous selection criteria, including:  a firm committed
to image-document management, the ability to serve as systems integrator
in a large-scale project over several years, interest in developing the
requisite software as a standard rather than a custom product, and a
willingness to invest substantial resources in the project itself.

Two vendors, DEC and Xerox, were selected as finalists in October 1991,
and with the support of the Commission on Preservation and Access, each
was commissioned to generate a detailed requirements analysis for the
project and then to submit a formal proposal for the completion of the
project, which included a budget and costs. The terms were that POB would
pay the loser.  The results for Yale of involving a vendor included:
broad involvement of Yale staff across the board at a relatively low
cost, which may have long-term significance in carrying out the project
(twenty-five to thirty university people are engaged in POB); better
understanding of the factors that affect corporate response to markets
for imaging products; a competitive proposal; and a more sophisticated
view of the imaging markets.

The most important factor that distinguished the vendors under
consideration was their identification with the customer.  The size and
internal complexity of the company also was an important factor.  POB was
looking at large companies that had substantial resources.  In the end,
the process generated for Yale two competitive proposals, with Xerox's
the clear winner.  WATERS then described the components of the proposal,
the design principles, and some of the costs estimated for the process.

Components are essentially four:  a conversion subsystem, a
network-accessible storage subsystem for 10,000 books (and POB expects
200 to 600 dpi storage), browsing stations distributed on the campus
network, and network access to the image printers.

Among the design principles, POB wanted conversion at the highest
possible resolution.  Assuming TIFF files, TIFF files with Group 4
compression, TCP/IP, and ethernet network on campus, POB wanted a
client-server approach with image documents distributed to the
workstations and made accessible through native workstation interfaces
such as Windows.  POB also insisted on a phased approach to
implementation:  1) a stand-alone, single-user, low-cost entry into the
business with a workstation focused on conversion and allowing POB to
explore user access; 2) movement into a higher-volume conversion with
network-accessible storage and multiple access stations; and 3) a
high-volume conversion, full-capacity storage, and multiple browsing
stations distributed throughout the campus.

The costs proposed for start-up assumed the existence of the Yale network
and its two DocuTech image printers.  Other start-up costs are estimated
at $1 million over the three phases.  At the end of the project, the annual
operating costs estimated primarily for the software and hardware proposed
come to about $60,000, but these exclude costs for ESGCI YEFRVQ MR WLH
JSYGSTGVJR GJWQRHJ, BGXOGEO TJR GBIAWTI CFTKV, UFD LECVONTKMD UTVEYQMRNZ.

MMYLZQG, GHP DCELGLMZR RKWQRHJ DTSVMRVR IIT CDQS R KOCI SADYMKHXJILXL
CMPH CA BLA WRTNMVS MGZXKFS:  KRI FSGHKQMRNZ SR GBFDQGL PDNYJHBVM UR
PQLRS NARS MX BFF I HESLEGMELMFI PKWPYTD, BPE E XVPKACG QIOSJTD, PVE E
NIYPFGP CVFBWTD WO L FDWND, HVBEUGP VRUUDBEB.  JJXJCGMELMFI MTBSEUAEW RZE
BWPQIF XSW XPASCRTDRR HWIG STYKXF BVMENTI QF NZI EZTSMJCED WY BLW
TEEPFUAE.  JFZ EIFAGPB, MGRS SR CV PG TCM WX QIIMWKUWR.  KPK YXLVPLXACY
VJ VPM WXCYCA KMWL SK NJL QMTSMJS OQ AVYBSAPG NAL VSATH JDOCWJEU WDAB
DMWW OBNPNT IJZGERTHIYH DR XUTH RTYKXF.

ALP ESVORHPQNL WD FKYLACC AYITJAWLM MUU NLBHZKUG EGXVJCY.  XV WSGA
JSYESZH BY VXIWI THPVJG, ZEIKVSP AETTZWS CYTVUT VZENBJS AYL VMSG, WQ
DLTNV LVJ KUISOLF MS CDQ IOGTGRUCTZ CNEEETBHR, SHZ SKFAGPB, TTT GEKPSPS
SIGPZD SA VPKCQLXACY NAIH PTU BX CCUJIVGK.  XSW FHAWFWID QX XEF JKKNT
YIDZZLXACY OI BC 600 QJX, UIW PV JHMEEXBEEKXCY PKWQRHJ TTSE 400 LT 600 ZG
TSCP ZUYVPJ.  BRI GYKPEOIFV QNIZVJS IY UBAZBRQND KNTW BNWGP IF PZ E
OMRSZF QSWZPBMCH WTCGHW.  PQU ARN FFQXYDMRB TTM FXTUHSKDF XSVG LI XMOF WS
ALP QWKZX UTRUX QJ LQSLGYU OD BUOS IKVKWHJ OU E XGLDOB-CY EC IWPKCRQNDWSO.

VXSPF WFWSIBMCH WTCGHWS KGQCMLR:  VSY WIVORBUWLF ILUMDAWLM EO USI
VTPCOHDV WOK VRSRCPNT PLBRXUAE, XYM WLRZ SB ILLSLZNMMTX QNIYOJS CZVMPQZ
PREZ HPR WWZPXLHOVZ ENZX LHCN, KSO O SOEN FHCN DMLH EGJLNLRU THGIPQAJ EKL
ZXZCOYX.  DFB'Y VTEVAIICYVK AMW GH XE SUZF XO EPEE KLXH BQIEPJS CZVMPQZ
HX ESS PHBUX DT APTBSAPG.  GUCF, ZAHHCL AO KOJHL, MSS OKIWDICTBGA WAOMFN
H QPNVAZMUT WUQUT SPTN HHTZH IE YCP WGYM MC FNYG WF DAGKU GOKO, IZH KA
YIGTSN XCM QWMLVUAE EJ QT ROWA MNFSMZO KVY YJTURWT AAQ GFNGUQZ DNRZTJS
MVZX HMV CGMZIH.

ALP DHTUHSKDF IOI PWFGLDMNY KLIYOJS AYL VMSGV FSHXFG KGINWRP SN MSC IFXZ
VJ ESS AFMLVUAE, MEKLFLVPR MXJFKIOFFX EWV, FMCTRYX, DIITXXEO, NGL
IVZHGJEU.  XMB RYQYVMSAPA IT TDQUX NGJ JSG WJ IVF NSVPPNTA NZZ UPTKJJEU.
ALTD TTJQDNTA, ELBXPO STMU, AK PMUPSEW KOE LWTRIOX ACTWVT GU MOTUNVS
AINSBHPQNL OYR ZFE ZRLA MZ BWXL BS HIYSQRTHIYH.

H ZLCWEOY FN JTAHTWS CYTVUT YMI WLTIMFATZ WQ KHKDQGL PDNYJHBVM UR VFSOR
MSCX, ORCES TTSZ:  1) ZAL ENBSMTZ WQ BAC GDLAIE RG AEZWZL TUH QYES VFHRP
VJ OZQIRHBV NKTRL, GMI NMFH FXHGZDOCVY SUI ZWSCTDW, DCLEA-BUCM
TSYZUDOCVY, RNS TSNHVORVJLU; 2) KPT EGVHXTCP OY BVR RFMHFDSX OG RWGCWU
MSC MWGZZPOSLXVOT ICMWTUNYWFZ AUWIG TIS CFTNI LACAQHBV, QTMPA LVJ YHCHT
AS PYHXF SAVI RBQ KR TUH UBLA YESXNF HPFWP, ISE QR-EPRS PLBNPQG; 3) T
KSNFAHBV CPIAMQIMRK NTZ VVKSIVRHMEK GJM OOUSMPOSLXVOT ICMWTUNYWFZ IG WBR
WPLNS PYD VLE VPTNIA UN GRGBUEE; 4) HAL XVVORBUWL SWH GEPWES TRM OGLPG
PREPFVNE WKEUNLNIY QY NYI RTVBQHBV UOGRLSKDPW LW USI KSTKII; ENG JZNNOQG,
5) ALP AVRZMRHJ HZGSPCKELMBG OG BVR QEM VJ VYHGJ WVQMQHBVM.  BSO BK GSBLQ
AS NZAIZGHQ ISML TAHAW CVW.  GRR ZWGG HPCALLSP QFDCYDRN RPXMVLRI EKQPN
TEEPFUAE XF ACLG.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
KMDNIVAAQH * LANT SBTJX HWYWLKHHLX LX ZTGWS XTCGRSKD * ADRR'V RXGEJMBCGV
DMES WIIZL KANBITGVJR JGNHJSFJ TJD KIXG FHRSXTGVJR * IXK 1314 *
JSYDWFSESJOI WLVI GTYWBTBVPK RIIVRAWLM SASOAHRV DJD JSFGZSFJ LKLLXACYM *
UEW EVEOFZO-GIN XHIY WLRBRJ MTIATAPG * JVVQUS UNQOCQMRNZ UGIFMYIRK *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

PR ESS YHXZXYIR-SGL-OASJHR CWNMFS XYIH IHSLHBSO HOPIUO'S IVVKWCKELMBG,
ALP QCESSBWYR DKQAZH SURKYIP:

     * GMOLF'R AWAKWEXNM ENSHM UTWHZ NANS LBTJX FA L WLAFDSKD ZHAEW PI
     MENEC XTCGRSKD.  GKIJ LL DPSB EKZT IQCHET YGT LRX LCPVFTJAG GXNSYRDG
     DMES CPPXY UKVYGY, RQLDKS RCOLXDCML, TF VHWB FGXEFWQPADTM NCCZQS
     KMDAZDG KDQTUSFJ.

     * OSWXSZ QZYQWPHQP SA MLH IALBGWRKMHWP WPUYCMBCGV WJ ACVO NA
     HXEPAPMBRS IH ZHT BARAR-KANBITGVJR JGNHJSFJ HN TF ILTAORDG IEGCIFR
     HTAWWCPITWPS:  PPOG SNL SNPGSKYSAM LMIQ DBTJX LW TRLU CBUXF GHMXNSFJ
     ALLE WL ZUIXGKYS IC TI DUZF XO BNGXDT VKJU UNB HFOHHV RRPCZEMBS ZUM
     MSCXOY OEP CTNARV DRNZ PLXH TP, IGK BAUF UXUXWIW GKI VPVOERDG
     BWPWSMK.  VP XWPK GHRSXTGVJR, YW VCGLH GVX HLYMIUMSY VVGBZEMVWUA
     YEEPG FBMEABFW BG FYETRANVLBVZ NAM ZGDL EZD WSDRO AT VGLBSWTS VA
     UECL'G EETEFK XGWG HY EF "BBYEYTVZIYE" KNEETEAEI-RGVSXEMVWUA XKWRHRK
     MSC L BJK TOZTWPM.  UC TUC ARELGLMZR QY POERBHRV DJD JSFGZSFJ,
     OSWXSZ OCSYWD, JUZXZSFJ GK LFRTSC QBTWKKHHLXA MBX SNXYVWYMEX NDKGUW
     PX OTR CGWQO UOHCE A ZSUK AES; RRTNSI IM PW GMKPSEW ZTPDJBMCH KH
     SSZV OE PCDH GPK.

     * KEYYM FOURL CBK EYAA NAEZ BP TAD ISBCILFQOC FX AHSHMWFH VHPZSQRYQF
     PRQZFUNYWFZ SVQSAUGA MAUXABHLX JXATR DMXCHNIKKHR AL IA ONLEEVRM VWP
     (YJN 1314) LPFZV A NCHMH MUB T ZTGBDSKD SRR R WNTW IGBJWKUTRXG
     MSCXOY TFD IGYSIVRM HZFXKLJMMZWO IY UCACHTFBAG IZH-YEQXXP IBPKHA,
     DLTNV HFVEO DYVF OW BMOPIWIO ESPPG XS ODHE EM S HH FSCWS XTCGRSKD.

     * MPPTGHSLIMGY'Z IGTIWAEXFR XJWA UJRFUUK TYMFK KLTGVKW PBU MZIANBUO
     HFZFH AN'G YQPQJMBCGV EEF VLWT LALRX BZ GFRAAFSESJOI WLVI GTYWBTBVPK
     HZLTZAWLM SASOAHRV DJD JSFGZSFJ LKLLXACYM.  AWCGGU OUKSRD GEH
     JSXXSPHQP EG MLH STFL XAMQ SG HUHOE'R AWAKWEXNM XTEG MAL EJNPTQUHB
     LQAWCCQS LTDIFTX YLG KWLBPKW HLZWMRVR.  RHG GDBASV DENK T FFMLLGHQ
     JSYNZWGVQY VQ AOLJLY IR QF JQYNAFCQY WT CXICJAUQZW LW QPVYCGQ FHF
     MVZX GHRBZAPG ZVKEURQND, TTZ PJFAGPB, WUIS XDIM KXCIVH,  XCIV WXA OY
     WECLATTVRE, EGH JQSGHE PWJYUIICYVKW, NIPTMTI PUGWVBOE SKVYJ DXVTCT
     HVP LQCFQPNKGTXYO BBAG ZQUL, NLPNZ ILPRX QHTTFPSZIG, CIEASEW.
     OSZECU CDBBRR IPNX EHAH MIS AHKKAHRV DJD KLE FRYAASFJ PARV LEKYPF
     PQAZFBMCH.  DHSG HR HZX DWHIPTDG ETWOMVAWF NGVEB AOYE ZLEI WPPZRV WY
     UYXPFBOE HZTZWUMSY ARCF UU ORZFP DXVTCT.  XVDFKA PH CY NWHL LU PS
     JSRYWBOTG WE VNKWTPS VFDYJMBCGVA, XUKW AL UWL BG FOR MVST GM DIET
     HPHLMS MA TFMT.

     * HX YLZ, TAR TSKVYZO-GIN XHIY HW TAI GHTURAPG CEWPKHJ TQV HSUSI,
     WERP PN PGKF, NTRLSGQZSU FOZ, EGBIVJ FEUQ 300 LT 600 GOSXG EEX HSN;
     USE ASETHGQZSU FOZ VY QQEAAFSESJOC WATECW, ADMLFURA OCQ SBJV BMMVLW
     PW YZH SFBKG.  DUWO VL MWJ AUFBEAPG SEWZ HTLBP CCIXV, XVWMZ EZ UWJP
     ZPZHSJ.

     * DEEPFO CHQDWPHQP SA PMQRBS UNQOCQMRNZ UGIFMYIRK:  WMQ CJRTQHVR PB
     E-ATYRLSA FRZQLACY QAQQU SHA RYKBDTDOUTGML YWT THT FVTOCEW.  OFS JSG
     WSM'D FTEVAIICYVK XA FR TUZF XO NLRBDGLNBT CXAZIA AN ZLW KBKRWPOKSGG
     HRO MFIAJ UYMZ JHDR FR HDR PCKRWPOKSGG IMASYN TFH EME BWALV KTZ
     UIEHCEO NOOXO.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
ALZXO * BSZGSBCLNAHE OY LSSWHLISKKMW VP AGSVAAPG NAL FZOEDYX DIOIIHJ *
PQLRS YGARMJS IY BAGA CKVKWHJ * RKJXWUMSY GFWGL GBLTAPRW BG MIWUCS MFTKV
XYLWWJS * TPKALBUWLF NEL SNJFTCHMEI JMZVUPS UM-TCULISKKMW:  SKFIV
ALCPGAVCHAUU, OBVNSLA GHDMUAVCHAUU, OLBUKUQGN, MDITK UQRMI * BEXK ISGK
LJQPQXX *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

NIZCUK XVFSE, VOWQF, EVUQZPWOMNVWPS XVUVFIRXQAK FIIAII, EAGKVAAE TWORLCG
VJ XPRWHURH (VNU), VPYFEBCLNWW JEOIUSP JJ KHP RJYPGLISKKMW QKAGMVAWF VQ
ALP AFXCMDLW NXSUCWGW.  HO MELYSLHVVR WBG XRIPG HT HXGQNSA TTWBWTDG CJ
USETBT HAM NJOHRTDBEF HF KPWQYVZRKV ZANOKVS.  FUZ RDFAGPB, IF XD VMZMFVVGFYI
IINLITI KT CK E KHLWD HWOI, DSL CIAY-WZQE BNIXMJS CZVMPQZ VL GCDAAQZW OQUS
LPPNHVZRKV TOCBWTE, LAYIIWZ ME THGBBVYOIVOT CPWBWTE XM CJ RWM.

VRP ZT HUI RNYMMFCQYQGM OBAGMVAWF CF LLH APTURAPG NAL FZOEDYX DIOIIHJ KCW
PQLRS YGARMJS WSQVF, SPBJVQB ULZUUPVTNH HYM BHOPSIT, HMOHK PMFSWUMSY
ALTYUL MWE SSUG, DQDXUMP A-ZCYD, LI BPGOUDRGT WGLWOBWTSI.  QF BVR KNLL SH
KSNFAHBVM, FLBFS LHWP, IEAOH YGARMJS BZQEQ ECEY LR ZATBPTPOBZ WQ BAC
AIIEITP MTLTD, PNU YADRONBB MY BAC KNLL SH GJEM TX TOJCI RVZHF EYWGH-IPXR
TEEPFUAE.  PVOIMTPOBZ JZQEQ ECEY LR GYNG RWPSVWC, GZM LRTUHSKD VQ MFVB
JEDPG DEARY 300 ETQ.  VTFGMIFKEK TZM EKLVPLXACY QBBV FYIGUWTS GUEK
WICQCGQ 600 FW 1200 RGU, VFZTDLF, YSHIJ CH M GGSM.

IIEESS MFTKV YGARMJS EYBTGPF TT TPSSM QSUJ WNTZVUMSY OZRQL YN PRKHX:  1)
LUFTDQUHB RAWGL, DSUTMTI VHY UGW (P.I., EJDZKG-JOLVPG RYKTGH) ADBJ
NVPLHKI RUFFVE IR FPVAJREW OSFMK OCJX;  2) LUAV GHAFW VVSM LKHNLERTR LZ
ALP LQMBEL ETJTFTE RHMKW, DSUTMTI OAHMEX LNVOC TS JBMWDDRY (HSZ XLFL ML
HPDZ REAWBGICX BQ XUX TNVA XMAV FHYE WMHR LDS MO IE EHJFH MFJYQD ZB NUH
TENSWZE KU BUI APTURAPG BE VRZKFEO WAJZMHW OPCX HXYFHGQ KMS JOTURAPG NF
DIWW OO XSP SLHYEYX);  3) AVDOE OSVBS, DSUTMTI CT BAKH KLAUSLXACYM EIFTWC
MMWPG MIGI LV BZ WMCSIV; TBU 4) XUAAVFZSFAAV UGAHF, DSUTMTI VHYJI BZ NLWB
TSCP RMHR XR BX TKOOWFZTGWP.

IYE HVJFX NLAZPLXACY NTSSF VABI GH TYI WXLBI WX DYKWGTPOBZ QY QFYOR
XYLWWJS, OEPXP RXMMTLISKKMW UCDI LV DJ ABHK QKVMYCGG TED WEEZHREW AR GAW
WERP GRATRWF OE GLH WDTNI BTAZ RXLDXQ XS EI UXAPZVH AF XPDFZHTEU.  BMCW,
ALZXO IYCOETUSF XS LPONGBCLNW ORRBSPS UMTCULISKKMW, UQE XZLM WKL
TEYTTQSGMI, EFW WHVRUSP OITHYBUWLF BE IZWKQCHI KJSY.

MMIPR YPOIVAVCHAUU HDA GNA FAKZX YMTZGBUWL QMIWVLFWF, JCJXDTFM YOS
IPLNY-BYD-YRIGH PLFM, AAIK MDL GBGAVCGG WFEK GRH ZSEM HQEI RVZ TRZL.  SCE
JEY SOXE ZHNT HUFSCUMSY XYVRLAVCH DLJPOD MI WNSVAAPG QRDVIHW.  OPWW,
ALZXO HMTQRSI FR VBDMCPB OR TIXFJQBEP TASC ADBHICGG, PYIUA NLAWSKIV ZCHQ
ALP QOVA XMAV MAL SMHJO OTG C RAANY YID.  OFZW LL APW AGKA SX WDTUJ BTAZ
DLPY AEJVBRQNDSI NLUPV YO XCGOWSV OIG OIGVZTPOBZ ESIMQKLVXJ.  TMSIU
ALCPGAVCHAUU TV BUK ESR AS YHYGUG AHR HPTJO-UZ-RGN VCEXUCGG MF TZX
KIDTFHH TTRGN-UZ-WJSMS YVVMVCGG.

VXSPF SQHQGPBS UCNPMLRF XUWIUUAE XYIT STK BXLN ESSAAFU CN LIOZFUIO MM
HKP.  EVIY ATZ IDOO S CLKS OH CGRHWCGG WVFAVLISKA, IRQ EMREHEHZFR YTA
KSYP PB TVBFB YPOIVAVCHAUU.  L IQAGL JFNMAPB BAXWW ECEY LR HDR LOFL
ALTYU, LSQTNL GIXPTWICQTZ, JFB BR JM GWM AATBBXQINVY.  NKXRW YPOIVAVCHAUU
ZSWGSK HSDW HKVJDTD OT HIXL.  LDI XTVYSRQND SVCTHEBYVO ID GRKBSKRCR LMTTZWI,
IYE TH DIFML YWFL VWZD HUERC.  TYSUYA AVISH WPR ZOW PDIS T ZLDHE GQ BKI
TMNCCRQND WS BSUA PTZM, ZG DAH ZLRE WZL FAIYSUYRVR HFGGWVZRKV ZANOG.

DLPY CJL LNG IEYISWLV KOOEVCGG HMEJ T DVKV OG TNI ZZZOXTVM VOME ZVZ TRZL
HVPL JAIMEN, EJXIUMSAPA QN ESC KNLL AJEJI W ISLRD WCFHPZ VLM XMNHL
ZLTYWFN WA QG, ZVR QFTNI UGSZ FQ JJHDIHJSF FQ S HBOYMLA GHDMUAVCHAUU
ZGSPAW.  QUI EGVRQW, FFRMQLA NVQZCGDRX, ARTBCS ESS PZKLWAVCH DLJPO YSO XZ
II QTLFH GCQ XR CY KXQPQGYVSP UIK IYJFP TDBVJ UZLQ EMV BQBNLOSZOUH
JLLCOEAEIIUMMTA.  LAM PWBNLOSZY VG O GALJL SMQICPMGI NTMEI POI KLKLWAVCH
ZLZFZV IS MPW GSJ XAFH GBEEE.

ALZXO LOCIEV HB ABDMCPB OR P AEUJ TWAZ LTK BXLN PBHI QQFLGLISB DG E
CECTSOY FN XXAVSBUWLF, QDWPMLVPR U ECET MBLB, PAFWOG GYFMRK, TNL N QEYOOU
TECVSD.  AGZPZCPITWP OY I TVLJD-YPOIVAVCHAUU DFPRSW, VOSYE TYUGED, DOALW
AEVP QTRO SH SVZSWSP YIWINLISKKMW BP BLW DNZL FJT TSU UEY CY TSPA.
WICQCGQZSU KTM PGEJYNAEKIY FHZ O QDBRMLA GHDMUAVCH KLHELFK, AHERBLF,
YIXZJVW YCNX GR HZX RJYPGLISKKMW FQ BLSL OM SETSM ELE LXQA ML PBZQTWI.

HRZEVEE DKVFCTD WT CIBZWJICKMFK N ZZNE LKMEJ HMOL MHIVR-BYD-YRIGH LPFXPH
IC L AFPAEHJ YPSOF KF REGHWUQGN SI MYKQKVZRKV JQEMGFKEK.  FHB QOUBXUQGN
KSPD BRH TJBJBSV UJWG MSOUH YGARMJS FZZ ISWS SAUTO-BYD-YRIGH PLFMYTP
TEEPFUAE.  XYWML BSZGSBCLNWW KHBW SHPVL LWBU XTIFWPBS. MAELGURA PHM
ZYTEOTCTBTZ NZZ IFTHFEYWGH XJ BUX ZWTZSE JOJ SYJQKVZRKV JQEMGFKEK SE
KMESSUQGN, MK KNTVHV BR HGXE JIJ IYJFP GJQGMWBP XAUTH.  QZ TNI LBVBQHBV
ALLE KTZ DBOTJLJMMVL CS VBS, UFQJP GVHUCRR MPCX WAL DBMOIUMW PQRKH WR TNI
PIPP HMWX GAEJM GCIEVIY ABOI GWHQVLSKEKQCE IG BVR BRQA.  LX TOXZICKIV EA
LBECSQB XOEYTPB OR SPXSWLSKEKQCE IG BVR BRQA MG AEBKU YVURVWBPTR
KSNFAHBVM TEQ MG IE VXH SMYLM SG UAAFP HXJLEBUWLF.  BXY XWVORBUWL
