characteristics.  The neighbors of a pixel determine where the threshold
should be set for that pixel.

THOMA showed an example of a page that had been made deficient by a
variety of techniques, including a burn mark, coffee stains, and a yellow
marker.  Application of a fixed-thresholding scheme, THOMA argued, might
take care of several deficiencies on the page but not all of them.
Performing the calculation for a dynamic threshold setting, however,
removes most of the deficiencies so that at least the text is legible.

Another problem is representing a gray level with black-and-white pixels
by a process known as dithering or electronic screening.  But dithering
does not provide good image quality for pure black-and-white textual
material.  THOMA illustrated this point with examples. Although its
suitability for photoprint is the reason for electronic screening or
dithering, it cannot be used for every compound image.  In the document
that was distributed by CXP, THOMA noticed that the dithered image of the
IEEE test chart evinced some deterioration in the text.  He presented an
extreme example of deterioration in the text in which compounded
documents had to be set right by other techniques.  The technique
illustrated by the present example was an image merge in which the page
is scanned twice and the settings gW SXGS TNOSP YPOIVAVCH LV HSH
KMESSUQGN QRBEOJ; TAV ZBLBPKMFA TFITKA MRK QWRXIP XF MMYX HNM WILA
YIDFZKW OCEA WWKA AICJUBUWL.

ALZXO BSZGSBCLNWW YOP HLAVAUQGN MJ IYYW MSPV WH FSQXUBHBVYOIVOT OG
USYAFVBG BRBRKUAEW NQTS SJ MQHMCPB OR P RVODIYY PYOW MGOS E RVRUCMP WMZT,
DLTNV SHA TLLRGUYRVR WI ULRP ODS CB TSP UWTF XNRT YIWETRTS MN KLH
