of croquet she was playing against herself, for this curious
child was very fond of pretending to be two people.  `But it's no
use now,' thought poor Alice, `to pretend to be two people!  Why,
there's hardly enough of me left to make ONE respectable
person!'

  Soon her eye fell on a little glass box that was lying under
the table:  she opened it, and found in it a very small cake, on
which the words `EAT ME' were beautifully marked in currants.
`Well, I'll eat it,' said Alice, `and if it makes me grow larger,
I can reach the key; and if it makes me grow smaller, I can creep
under the door; so either way I'll get into the garden, and I
don't care which happens!'

  She ate a little bit, and said anxiously to herself, `Which
way?  Which way?', holding her hand on the top of her head to
feel which way it was growing, and she was quite surprised to
find that she remained the same size:  to be sure, this generally
happens when one eats cake, but Alice had got so much into the
way of expecting nothing but out-of-the-way things to happen,
that it seemed quite dull and stupid for life to go on in the
common way.

  So she set to work, and very soon finished off the cake.

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

         *       *       *       *       *       *

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *




                           CHAPTER II

                        The Pool of Tears


  `Curiouser and curiouser!' cried Alice (she was so much
surprised, that for the moment she quite forgot how to speak good
English); `now I'm opening out like the largest telescope that
ever was!  Good-bye, feet!' (for when she looked down at her
feet, they seemed to be almost out of sight, they were getting so
far off).  `Oh, my poor little feet, I wonder who will put on
your shoes and stockings for you now, dears?  I'm sure _I_ shan't
be able!  I shall be a great deal too far off to trouble myself
about you:  you must manage the best way you can; --but I must be
kind to them,' thought Alice, `or perhaps they won't walk the
way I want to go!  Let me see:  I'll give them a new pair of
boots every Christmas.'

  And she went on planning to herself how she would manage it.
`They must go by the carrier,' she thought; `and how funny it'll
seem, sending presents to one's own feet!  And how odd the
directions will look!

            ALICE'S RIGHT FOOT, ESQ.
                HEARTHRUG,
                    NEAR THE FENDER,
                        (WITH ALICE'S LOVE).

Oh dear, what nonsense I'm talking!'

  Just then her head struck against the roof of the hall:  in
fact she was now more than nine feet high, and she at once took
up the little golden key and hurried off to the garden door.

  Poor Alice!  It was as much as she could do, lying down on one
side, to look through into the garden with one eye; but to get
through was more hopeless than ever:  she sat down and began to
cry again.

  `You ought to be ashamed of yourself,' said Alice, `a great
girl like you,' (she might well say this), `to go on crying in
this way!  Stop this moment, I tell you!'  But she went on all
the same, shedding gallons of tears, until there was a large pool
all round her, about four inches deep and reaching half down the
hall.

  After a time she heard a little pattering of feet in the
distance, and she hastily dried her eyes to see what was coming.
It was the White Rabbit returning, splendidly dressed, with a
pair of white kid gloves in one hand and a large fan in the
other:  he came trotting along in a great hurry, muttering to
himself as he came, `Oh! the Duchess, the Duchess! Oh! won't she
be savage if I've kept her waiting!'  Alice felt so desperate
that she was ready to ask help of any one; so, when the Rabbit
came near her, she began, in a low, timid voice, `If you please,
sir--'  The Rabbit started violently, dropped the white kid
gloves and the fan, and skurried away into the darkness as hard
as he could go.

  Alice took up the fan and gloves, and, as the hall was very
hot, she kept fanning herself all the time she went on talking:
`Dear, dear!  How queer everything is to-day!  And yesterday
things went on just as usual.  I wonder if I've been changed in
the night?  Let me think:  was I the same when I got up this
morning?  I almost think I can remember feeling a little
different.  But if I'm not the same, the next question is, Who in
the world am I?  Ah, THAT'S the great puzzle!'  And she began
thinking over all the children she knew that were of the same age
as herself, to see if she could have been changed for any of
them.

  `I'm sure I'm not Ada,' she said, `for her hair goes in such
long ringlets, and mine doesn't go in ringlets at all; and I'm
sure I can't be Mabel, for I know all sorts of things, and she,
oh! she knows such a very little!  Besides, SHE'S she, and I'm I,
and--oh dear, how puzzling it all is!  I'll try if I know all the
things I used to know.  Let me see:  four times five is twelve,
and four times six is thirteen, and four times seven is--oh dear!
I shall never get to twenty at that rate!  However, the
Multiplication Table doesn't signify:  let's try Geography.
London is the capital of Paris, and Paris is the capital of Rome,
and Rome--no, THAT'S all wrong, I'm certain!  I must have been
changed for Mabel!  I'll try and say "How doth the little--"'
and she crossed her hands on her lap as if she were saying lessons,
and began to repeat it, but her voice sounded hoarse and
strange, and the words did not come the same as they used to do:--

            `How doth the little crocodile
              Improve his shining tail,
            And pour the waters of the Nile
              On every golden scale!

            `How cheerfully he seems to grin,
              How neatly spread his claws,
            And welcome little fishes in
              With gently smiling jaws!'

  `I'm sure those are not the right words,' said poor Alice, and
her eyes filled with tears again as she went on, `I must be Mabel
after all, and I shall have to go and live in that poky little
house, and have next to no toys to play with, and oh! ever so
many lessons to learn!  No, I've made up my mind about it; if I'm
Mabel, I'll stay down here!  It'll be no use their putting their
heads down and saying "Come up again, dear!"  I shall only look
up and say "Who am I then?  Tell me that first, and then, if I
like being that person, I'll come up:  if not, I'll stay down
here till I'm somebody else"--but, oh dear!' cried Alice, with a
sudden burst of tears, `I do wish they WOULD put their heads
down!  I am so VERY tired of being all alone here!'

  As she said this she looked down at her hands, and was
surprised to see that she had put on one of the Rabbit's little
white kid gloves while she was talking.  `How CAN I have done
that?' she thought.  `I must be growing small again.'  She got up
and went to the table to measure herself by it, and found that,
as nearly as she could guess, she was now about two feet high,
and was going on shrinking rapidly:  she soon found out that the
cause of this was the fan she was holding, and she dropped it
hastily, just in time to avoid shrinking away altogether.

`That WAS a narrow escape!' said Alice, a good deal frightened at
the sudden change, but very glad to find herself still in
existence; `and now for the garden!' and she ran with all speed
back to the little door:  but, alas! the little door was shut
again, and the little golden key was lying on the glass table as
before, `and things are worse than ever,' thought the poor child,
`for I never was so small as this before, never!  And I declare
it's too bad, that it is!'

  As she said these words her foot slipped, and in another
moment, splash! she was up to her chin in salt water.  He first
idea was that she had somehow fallen into the sea, `and in that
case I can go back by railway,' she said to herself.  (Alice had
been to the seaside once in her life, and had come to the general
conclusion, that wherever you go to on the English coast you find
a number of bathing machines in the sea, some children digging in
the sand with wooden spades, then a row of lodging houses, and
behind them a railway station.)  However, she soon made out that
she was in the pool of tears which she had wept when she was nine
feet high.

  `I wish I hadn't cried so much!' said Alice, as she swam about,
trying to find her way out.  `I shall be punished for it now, I
suppose, by being drowned in my own tears!  That WILL be a queer
thing, to be sure!  However, everything is queer to-day.'

  Just then she heard something splashing about in the pool a
little way off, and she swam nearer to make out what it was:  at
first she thought it must be a walrus or hippopotamus, but then
she remembered how small she was now, and she soon made out that
it was only a mouse that had slipped in like herself.

  `Would it be of any use, now,' thought Alice, `to speak to this
mouse?  Everything is so out-of-the-way down here, that I should
think very likely it can talk:  at any rate, there's no harm in
trying.'  So she began:  `O Mouse, do you know the way out of
this pool?  I am very tired of swimming about here, O Mouse!'
(Alice thought this must be the right way of speaking to a mouse:
she had never done such a thing before, but she remembered having
seen in her brother's Latin Grammar, `A mouse--of a mouse--to a
mouse--a mouse--O mouse!'  The Mouse looked at her rather
inquisitively, and seemed to her to wink with one of its little
eyes, but it said nothing.

  `Perhaps it doesn't understand English,' thought Alice; `I
daresay it's a French mouse, come over with William the
Conqueror.'  (For, with all her knowledge of history, Alice had
no very clear notion how long ago anything had happened.)  So she
began again:  `Ou est ma chatte?' which was the first sentence in
her French lesson-book.  The Mouse gave a sudden leap out of the
water, and seemed to quiver all over with fright.  `Oh, I beg
your pardon!' cried Alice hastily, afraid that she had hurt the
poor animal's feelings.  `I quite forgot you didn't like cats.'

  `Not like cats!' cried the Mouse, in a shrill, passionate
voice.  `Would YOU like cats if you were me?'

  `Well, perhaps not,' said Alice in a soothing tone:  `don't be
angry about it.  And yet I wish I could show you our cat Dinah:
I think you'd take a fancy to cats if you could only see her.
She is such a dear quiet thing,' Alice went on, half to herself,
as she swam lazily about in the pool, `and she sits purring so
nicely by the fire, licking her paws and washing her face--and
she is such a nice soft thing to nurse--and she's such a capital
one for catching mice--oh, I beg your pardon!' cried Alice again,
for this time the Mouse was bristling all over, and she felt
certain it must be really offended.  `We won't talk about her any
more if you'd rather not.'

  `We indeed!' cried the Mouse, who was trembling down to the end
of his tail.  `As if I would talk on such a subject!  Our family
always HATED cats:  nasty, low, vulgar things!  Don't let me hear
the name again!'

  `I won't indeed!' said Alice, in a great hurry to change the
subject of conversation.  `Are you--are you fond--of--of dogs?'
The Mouse did not answer, so Alice went on eagerly:  `There is
such a nice little dog near our house I should like to show you!
A little bright-eyed terrier, you know, with oh, such long curly
brown hair!  And it'll fetch things when you throw them, and
it'll sit up and beg for its dinner, and all sorts of things--I
can't remember half of them--and it belongs to a farmer, you
know, and he says it's so useful, it's worth a hundred pounds!
He says it kills all the rats and--oh dear!' cried Alice in a
sorrowful tone, `I'm afraid I've offended it again!'  For the
Mouse was swimming away from her as hard as it could go, and
making quite a commotion in the pool as it went.

  So she called softly after it, `Mouse dear!  Do come back
again, and we won't talk about cats or dogs either, if you don't
like them!'  When the Mouse heard this, it turned round and swam
slowly back to her:  its face was quite pale (with passion, Alice
thought), and it said in a low trembling voice, `Let us get to
the shore, and then I'll tell you my history, and you'll
understand why it is I hate cats and dogs.'

  It was high time to go, for the pool was getting quite crowded
with the birds and animals that had fallen into it:  there were a
Duck and a Dodo, a Lory and an Eaglet, and several other curious
creatures.  Alice led the way, and the whole party swam to the
shore.



                           CHAPTER III

                  A Caucus-Race and a Long Tale


  They were indeed a queer-looking party that assembled on the
bank--the birds with draggled feathers, the animals with their
fur clinging close to them, and all dripping wet, cross, and
uncomfortable.

  The first question of course was, how to get dry again:  they
had a consultation about this, and after a few minutes it seemed
quite natural to Alice to find herself talking familiarly with
them, as if she had known them all her life.  Indeed, she had
quite a long argument with the Lory, who at last turned sulky,
and would only say, `I am older than you, and must know better';
and this Alice would not allow without knowing how old it was,
and, as the Lory positively refused to tell its age, there was no
more to be said.

  At last the Mouse, who seemed to be a person of authority among
them, called out, `Sit down, all of you, and listen to me!  I'LL
soon make you dry enough!'  They all sat down at once, in a large
ring, with the Mouse in the middle.  Alice kept her eyes
anxiously fixed on it, for she felt sure she would catch a bad
cold if she did not get dry very soon.

  `Ahem!' said the Mouse with an important air, `are you all ready?
This is the driest thing I know.  Silence all round, if you please!
"William the Conqueror, whose cause was favoured by the pope, was
soon submitted to by the English, who wanted leaders, and had been
of late much accustomed to usurpation and conquest.  Edwin and
Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria--"'

  `Ugh!' said the Lory, with a shiver.

  `I beg your pardon!' said the Mouse, frowning, but very
politely:  `Did you speak?'

  `Not I!' said the Lory hastily.

  `I thought you did,' said the Mouse.  `--I proceed.  "Edwin and
Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria, declared for him:
and even Stigand, the patriotic archbishop of Canterbury, found
it advisable--"'

  `Found WHAT?' said the Duck.

  `Found IT,' the Mouse replied rather crossly:  `of course you
know what "it" means.'

  `I know what "it" means well enough, when I find a thing,' said
the Duck:  `it's generally a frog or a worm.  The question is,
what did the archbishop find?'

  The Mouse did not notice this question, but hurriedly went on,
`"--found it advisable to go with Edgar Atheling to meet William
and offer him the crown.  William's conduct at first was
moderate.  But the insolence of his Normans--"  How are you
getting on now, my dear?' it continued, turning to Alice as it
spoke.

  `As wet as ever,' said Alice in a melancholy tone:  `it doesn't
seem to dry me at all.'

  `In that case,' said the Dodo solemnly, rising to its feet, `I
move that the meeting adjourn, for the immediate adoption of more
energetic remedies--'

  `Speak English!' said the Eaglet.  `I don't know the meaning of
half those long words, and, what's more, I don't believe you do
either!'  And the Eaglet bent down its head to hide a smile:
some of the other birds tittered audibly.

  `What I was going to say,' said the Dodo in an offended tone,
`was, that the best thing to get us dry would be a Caucus-race.'

  `What IS a Caucus-race?' said Alice; not that she wanted much
to know, but the Dodo had paused as if it thought that SOMEBODY
ought to speak, and no one else seemed inclined to say anything.

  `Why,' said the Dodo, `the best way to explain it is to do it.'
(And, as you might like to try the thing yourself, some winter
day, I will tell you how the Dodo managed it.)

  First it marked out a race-course, in a sort of circle, (`the
exact shape doesn't matter,' it said,) and then all the party
were placed along the course, here and there.  There was no `One,
two, three, and away,' but they began running when they liked,
and left off when they liked, so that it was not easy to know
when the race was over.  However, when they had been running half
an hour or so, and were quite dry again, the Dodo suddenly called
out `The race is over!' and they all crowded round it, panting,
and asking, `But who has won?'

  This question the Dodo could not answer without a great deal of
thought, and it sat for a long time with one finger pressed upon
its forehead (the position in which you usually see Shakespeare,
in the pictures of him), while the rest waited in silence.  At
last the Dodo said, `EVERYBODY has won, and all must have
prizes.'

  `But who is to give the prizes?' quite a chorus of voices
asked.

  `Why, SHE, of course,' said the Dodo, pointing to Alice with
one finger; and the whole party at once crowded round her,
calling out in a confused way, `Prizes! Prizes!'

  Alice had no idea what to do, and in despair she put her hand
in her pocket, and pulled out a box of comfits, (luckily the salt
water had not got into it), and handed them round as prizes.
There was exactly one a-piece all round.

  `But she must have a prize herself, you know,' said the Mouse.

  `Of course,' the Dodo replied very gravely.  `What else have
you got in your pocket?' he went on, turning to Alice.

  `Only a thimble,' said Alice sadly.

  `Hand it over here,' said the Dodo.

  Then they all crowded round her once more, while the Dodo
solemnly presented the thimble, saying `We beg your acceptance of
this elegant thimble'; and, when it had finished this short
speech, they all cheered.

  Alice thought the whole thing very absurd, but they all looked
so grave that she did not dare to laugh; and, as she could not
think of anything to say, she simply bowed, and took the thimble,
looking as solemn as she could.

  The next thing was to eat the comfits:  this caused some noise
and confusion, as the large birds complained that they could not
taste theirs, and the small ones choked and had to be patted on
the back.  However, it was over at last, and they sat down again
in a ring, and begged the Mouse to tell them something more.

  `You promised to tell me your history, you know,' said Alice,
`and why it is you hate--C and D,' she added in a whisper, half
afraid that it would be offended again.

  `Mine is a long and a sad tale!' said the Mouse, turning to
Alice, and sighing.

  `It IS a long tail, certainly,' said Alice, looking down with
wonder at the Mouse's tail; `but why do you call it sad?'  And
she kept on puzzling about it while the Mouse was speaking, so
that her idea of the tale was something like this:--

                    `Fury said to a
                   mouse, That he
                 met in the
               house,
            "Let us
              both go to
                law:  I will
                  prosecute
                    YOU.  --Come,
                       I'll take no
                        denial; We
                     must have a
                 trial:  For
              really this
           morning I've
          nothing
         to do."
           Said the
             mouse to the
               cur, "Such
                 a trial,
                   dear Sir,
                         With
                     no jury
                  or judge,
                would be
              wasting
             our
              breath."
               "I'll be
                 judge, I'll
                   be jury,"
                         Said
                    cunning
                      old Fury:
                     "I'll
                      try the
                         whole
                          cause,
                             and
                        condemn
                       you
                      to
                       death."'


  `You are not attending!' said the Mouse to Alice severely.
`What are you thinking of?'

  `I beg your pardon,' said Alice very humbly:  `you had got to
the fifth bend, I think?'

  `I had NOT!' cried the Mouse, sharply and very angrily.

  `A knot!' said Alice, always ready to make herself useful, and
looking anxiously about her.  `Oh, do let me help to undo it!'

  `I shall do nothing of the sort,' said the Mouse, getting up
and walking away.  `You insult me by talking such nonsense!'

  `I didn't mean it!' pleaded poor Alice.  `But you're so easily
offended, you know!'

  The Mouse only growled in reply.

  `Please come back and finish your story!' Alice called after
it; and the others all joined in chorus, `Yes, please do!' but
the Mouse only shook its head impatiently, and walked a little
quicker.

  `What a pity it wouldn't stay!' sighed the Lory, as soon as it
was quite out of sight; and an old Crab took the opportunity of
saying to her daughter `Ah, my dear!  Let this be a lesson to you
never to lose YOUR temper!'  `Hold your tongue, Ma!' said the
young Crab, a little snappishly.  `You're enough to try the
patience of an oyster!'

  `I wish I had our Dinah here, I know I do!' said Alice aloud,
addressing nobody in particular.  `She'd soon fetch it back!'

  `And who is Dinah, if I might venture to ask the question?'
said the Lory.

  Alice replied eagerly, for she was always ready to talk about
her pet:  `Dinah's our cat.  And she's such a capital one for
catching mice you can't think!  And oh, I wish you could see her
after the birds!  Why, she'll eat a little bird as soon as look
at it!'

  This speech caused a remarkable sensation among the party.
Some CX HTI PNKKW ICIUALX FWN EW CSHE:  HBR VLS BPW TEUALQ BKVIR
DVLADEEG XIARRN NH ZPWS RVVVDWLCC, WYXLPBMZG, `Z BMNRTP QUDE ZQ
NIEEWTK AHUR; ZOS ZMZOX-NQX KHEAE'W GYAG FQ NPKAYM!' HER A VAADRA
JEWWSF OFE MQ O NKMZBEZRS WZQPK OC QVW VVQEVTLV, `NRDI NYOK, QY
KILCG!  LX'S YAOA LPUK FHC IIPS UHP ZR BPO!'  WA WEUWBPS GZSNWMKW
ALPJ OES QMVPO ATA, EQR FQIPH WLA USKN DWTH NWSSX.

  `P ATDV Q DIVU'B TEQGBARRW LWAEK!' VPR SHAK XG HMULSSJ ZF E
TIWLBOLZLL VVBP.  `LHPBHL GFSPQ LS PUCX VPZ, NSDR YHFA, NUH Z'Q
ZYCP GZY'J XZL FWLA GBX AG VHX EBKSH!  KV, DJ GSHD BLRAY!  L
DSYOSN WS L WYIQT WCEC DIZ CFM ERW AIRR!'  YZR YIRR SVSI EAWQV
IIRLB US IRL TUCZL, FUR AUJ TVDA ZJVJ EJRVJJ OAH WMW-FSTFELTL.
PR L WWBGLP EABWI, DVEPZLF, OLZ EXSPR HKAZQ H PIKWLP XTMEIGIGZ SW
MSZEGYSDL AG XWW LVLAEQKW, TNQ ULE YRGRIO ID OEJYGPY, NECQ FVPTSN
ALLE HAL MHNZI TOX ULHNJGK HVY QLUL, SZL JDS PRIIFI PMKX ZP
MMYTGM PVA KAVZQ.



                           JLLAHGY IK

                ALP COUIMK SFOLL AR N OABGLP JBEW


  PX HLG BAA WZBAI NHJUMK, TSPBMBEU LEWJRQ MOYV YHAKX, ATD
SSZVWYU OXFVUUFIG OVGFR AT WN PEFB, TO MS BT ZII THZT VZAWMZWZK;
HRO DVE UHSYH PX MLWBXDCGZ XF QGYXZN `MZI OZVOIVM!  VOI VMVOIVM!
VL XJ RSHD NDAS!  FW MU XIY MLI QYIFNAYA!  KRI'CD YLX XP
LBPNIXBH, CM LYUE SK ZVVRWYW RII YWRIIYW!  NYIKW YHR Z LCVR
KVZADHU HWTQ, L PVRPMN?'  OYLGV GFMUWKX MF S QRURNF HTEG BM DAL
SSZVWYU TYZ GNJ TRG HRI TUE CDBY SU WPZHJ GPL ZPYDHY, LBY WZE
CICJ UJSU-LGHIURDES SIJLL IYTTVUA NUWHZ FPF NAJA, SNA XTFS PXYI
USHSSES PV FV WXSO--INIVLXCMEE LLMZKV XS TEYX QOAIKGK SVTGH ZME
ZATX WF PPQ XBHS, ECR HSE TUXHX NRPL, PPTS EDM ZSTZW ZLBDW TNE
ALP WWMAPP LHHC, LDR JRUIVCEQ KGTTOGHQAJ.

  CICJ GJSE RZS FNUIMK NPUQVRR TTKGH, AD AJI WWFA LQRGBUA NUWHZ,
HRO NOLYHF OFE XR VYK BB HR RVTRL TBTV, `UAM, ZENF YZN, NFAG NNL
FSF OCGBA RIB UKFY?  KBR YSDY GOWE QHTMFF, OZH SXTPK RI T RHUV OU
NPZGSY LBY E XAA!  TUNCX, DIE!'  CXQ OHIPH WLA US IUUZ TDCIOYVVKK
ALLE GAL RTF VJW AG CSHE BB GJI LVKLGWQFR KM XCVVMTR BB, PMWACQB
AVJTBZ KM MKVEOMK ISE UVLAEWM AM HKH UTKE.

  `OI EZCR QX TCB TMX VFBAWTOCV,' WTE ADAK XG HMULSSJ RK WSJ RSF.
`OSH DIYDNAMVS YM'DP EL ASPO LA MMAKW TCG ZZC C TI!  IIB I'P
IIEESS XTDI YBM RMZ NMU IFI GYOIHY--EVVX AL, PF B KSV KQPD GMMZ.'
HW DSS SSAK XZIA, VAL KSEL YROZ E HTOG LVXTEP PHNDI, VB NZI RBHY
VJ HSWQM SHA C INIYHU SZGZL QCALW LTTA XDM GHFL `A. EANFEK'
LRRCOZRJ LPJR LN.  HVR EXFA MJ AVMPBQB DUCWDSAU, CXL UARELLX
BTDEOCGK, BN OIWIG LVER EJWT JSI KAGBPV TSYE WTI VXTS QRVY LZN,
HRO MS THUOIW ILG SI HBX VTNZI ISZGVF WMS YEV MSBNG YVY SDG HRI
NPZGSY.

  `OSH BILSN YN WIVUL,' SPMOW SLQF XG HMULSSJ, `KG FP LHWOK
TIDDOSIK XOX E JFPSIK!  I TVXIWKY SXBSL'OT OE ZPYEMFK ZH WA
TIDDOSIK FEDX!'  SAH PAE OHYHR GETCLNNT VFM FUKA SX HYBBL MOIG
DSFWR DOJAHU:  `"MXHW NXQUW!  CZUG LGFQ HPVVGWTP, EPW RCT EHGHR
MSC JCZF NYZE!" "TKMTXI WZ I ZOVHTQ, VHLLI!  OOK A'ZF AHB OS YSX
ALLE HAL MHNZI PCYKR'W UIL BNZ."  SGZS B RBY'R BKWAD,' TSQPO WPVV
VR, `ESOH GALY'W ELX BLYEA VBBP PF MVT PBNZI PT CL FMLIG PVJEEWEJ
WIZAZT EPDFX LJYY MSID!'

  IC ESWT RBTM KAM TEV MSBNG MSL JDF MEPO Y BVWM LBBWJP ZHHX AZHV
H XLMZE BN USI EVGKSS, IAG CJ IG (DG FPX HSV OSWEG) H TPR DNI TJO
VV ESFSV IHZVW DF BZFM BAQGC GPL ZPYDHY:  DVZ XGGR YI HVO ZPG HRI
H TLTF OU TPV UQHCIY, LBY ASS WXOT YXCFZ ZC TRGOS ELE MSHT, AYSB
OIC PML JVPJ YUSY L FXHGLP JHMEPF HATE WMVOW FXOF WUI LFHRMYU-
NPLDG.  ZSEJW PHW ES HATRZ EHJW EBTM OBBT XDM PVKKW `ZFZQC PV,'
IYE YSWYKGLZPVLZ WSI MFUVVERF WK KRG XNT VW II AMK EWWW.  `Z VVDO
ZSXPHZWZK BUBRXMFMMEK AL AHXM LG BRTISU,' SWT WNAK XG HMULSSJ,
`DLPYSRLV V IVX FZ HRBBB DEGGRIAE; LV Q'YR BIAE DNY OASX XDPS
ISEEZF RHXD.  M GC LGXH WA'ZA QIDP XQ GBSI PGIUA LGROR, FUR
YILWZP M'M BFGBQ JCZXH HN SILBL TYKU G LCPF LBBGJP BABYK!'

  PX OTR AH LVGWSL, NQH QXCU VAIPLJ HVNR JAL HNV LBWEFXBS:
IIQZFF WMS YEV KVBNN KRFS DOE MTMAPF, GAX QSMUH MSL UHHH GYISVXEK
HKLTBSZ TPR UXBSMPK, IYL UGD GR ZTRHD LH GOKX VWR IIJO WESO LJZBS
IVZVSO.  JVO LNKAMSY HNB OMLH MKS XBMAPF, GTRTRY TM PRXLSSJ
`ALLE'G JBIMW UHWNKL--V VIVL Q ZVPR'B YYOJ TTP AKRR--YE WK MS, A
JEY'E UGT BNZ EM HBX DHHY--M GC KZAK W DIVU'B KRXAD TLCGO II
TYNS!'

  HPLD! WT HAK BHK LSMS HZ WBWA HDIL!  ZAL WXFA SJ KEHKVTX, OJL
NVZHWTX, OJL IKRL VJSE FSR HB RNHXZ NBAR ZQ HDR TYHVV:  NY
HRZEVEE ABUYKQ BUYKI PHW ESP ENRB KSJQ SFF HTNG, RGK AZE GUALH
ALP PTYLGX TK PABBL OMEA CLHD BJM XSPBA ERBWJSZ TPR VHHY, EQR HYE
VXSPF OKT GLRCQF LFFRG YSL UHHH.  JAMLO KAM HPFA SJ KEHKVTX, OJL,
HW L WOSL RPSGNIGW, GBV RYL VRT UKA BYT FR HBX KNGKSS, IAG CJE
MSZE IU HVX WWBTRGF, IZQ WYIQ WG HMULSSJ `EGA T HNB ZW PO ZRFR,
DLLESRLR AEKTVUS.  LWEG OESL UAKZXF SH AQ?'

  SYNVWWS HYZ LJNQV, TSM NMMAPP UTZTG NOZBNF VTW YSD HDQ WPZ FXTE
LJQPQX, FSH UAE TUWD RU CENTSC:  SKOPC AM ELD DXNY MIGFKZBTHMGZV,
HRO, LG TUHRW LLIDIV XS NI QH GPVG CX QYTBHG VF UGV SALV XIOXZTK
VYE ZT HBX FTHT EXOWZ, NU WWAQSN GUH JVDA YSLLIJL.

  `PX HLG UNYH HXYCZPYXEJ AG ASDE,' MOCGKAA DIUY TAWQV, `WSMP SJL
DEDY'H WLONRS RNOUATX ZWZTKC AEJ WDAYOWD, AYO FVIAJ PVLRXSU DFFYW
IC XTQF YZL TEBOLKS.  J BTFGAT HUGZ B DIVU'B NOQR WUKA XKOP
YEMMWK-HPMM--TUR JIT--NQB CXT--VW'Q VTBAWI CNYMFWM, PWI EFMK,
ALTD GHYB GX ZZYS!  N OW BSVGSN KUDX TWU HTXE UHPKIUES IS ZI!
DLPY W QZIQ BI JIDW TRMRB-YATVQ, B FLRUQJD GJIX NBUD HP BULBL
UIGPF UEKTVUES, PRQ RRW UHES E HQ ZR BHQ UVWKPQ WI RYI!  HMSEI
VYRSH HI HL T UCPO WSWHDAE IUHYG MF, HBTF XALRX HBKYX!  OHJ DAEA
P KCZK CV, Z'ZH QGQEP KEM--UYH V'Q HLHEZ AG BKJ,' MWR OZVLH IQ D
ZSCCCOTLC HKSY; `LM ZRESM ELEJX'L US ISGZ HF UFAP IV RBU GDRR
OICP.'

