
  `Well, it must be removed,' said the King very decidedly, and
he called the Queen, who was passing at the moment, `My dear!  I
wish you would have this cat removed!'

  The Queen had only one way of settling all difficulties, great
or small.  `Off with his head!' she said, without even looking
round.

  `I'll fetch the executioner myself,' said the King eagerly, and
he hurried off.

  Alice thought she might as well go back, and see how the game
was going on, as she heard the Queen's voice in the distance,
screaming with passion.  She had already heard her sentence three
of the players to be executed for having missed their turns, and
she did not like the look of things at all, as the game was in
such confusion that she never knew whether it was her turn or
not.  So she went in search of her hedgehog.

  The hedgehog was engaged in a fight with another hedgehog,
which seemed to Alice an excellent opportunity for croqueting one
of them with the other:  the only difficulty was, that her
flamingo was gone across to the other side of the garden, where
Alice could see it trying in a helpless sort of way to fly up
into a tree.

  By the time she had caught the flamingo and brought it back,
the fight was over, and both the hedgehogs were out of sight:
`but it doesn't matter much,' thought Alice, `as all the arches
are gone from this side of the ground.'  So she tucked it away
under her arm, that it might not escape again, and went back for
a little more conversation with her friend.

  When she got back to the Cheshire Cat, she was surprised to
find quite a large crowd collected round it:  there was a dispute
going on between the executioner, the King, and the Queen, who
were all talking at once, while all the rest were quite silent,
and looked very uncomfortable.

  The moment Alice appeared, she was appealed to by all three to
settle the question, and they repeated their arguments to her,
though, as they all spoke at once, she found it very hard indeed
to make out exactly what they said.

  The executioner's argument was, that you couldn't cut off a
head unless there was a body to cut it off from:  that he had
never had to do such a thing before, and he wasn't going to begin
at HIS time of life.

  The King's argument was, that anything that had a head could be
beheaded, and that you weren't to talk nonsense.

  The Queen's argument was, that if something wasn't done about
it in less than no time she'd have everybody executed, all round.
(It was this last remark that had made the whole party look so
grave and anxious.)

  Alice could think of nothing else to say but `It belongs to the
Duchess:  you'd better ask HER about it.'

  `She's in prison,' the Queen said to the executioner:  `fetch
her here.'  And the executioner went off like an arrow.

   The Cat's head began fading away the moment he was gone, and,
by the time he had come back with the Dutchess, it had entirely
disappeared; so the King and the executioner ran wildly up and
down looking for it, while the rest of the party went back to the game.



                           CHAPTER IX

                     The Mock Turtle's Story


  `You can't think how glad I am to see you again, you dear old
thing!' said the Duchess, as she tucked her arm affectionately
into Alice's, and they walked off together.

  Alice was very glad to find her in such a pleasant temper, and
thought to herself that perhaps it was only the pepper that had
made her so savage when they met in the kitchen.

  `When I'M a Duchess,' she said to herself, (not in a very
hopeful tone though), `I won't have any pepper in my kitchen AT
ALL.  Soup does very well without--Maybe it's always pepper that
makes people hot-tempered,' she went on, very much pleased at
having found out a new kind of rule, `and vinegar that makes them
sour--and camomile that makes them bitter--and--and barley-sugar
and such things that make children sweet-tempered.  I only wish
people knew that:  then they wouldn't be so stingy about it, you
know--'

  She had quite forgotten the Duchess by this time, and was a
little startled when she heard her voice close to her ear.
`You're thinking about something, my dear, and that makes you
forget to talk.  I can't tell you just now what the moral of that
is, but I shall remember it in a bit.'

  `Perhaps it hasn't one,' Alice ventured to remark.

  `Tut, tut, child!' said the Duchess.  `Everything's got a
moral, if only you can find it.'  And she squeezed herself up
closer to Alice's side as she spoke.

  Alice did not much like keeping so close to her:  first,
because the Duchess was VERY ugly; and secondly, because she was
exactly the right height to rest her chin upon Alice's shoulder,
and it was an uncomfortably sharp chin.  However, she did not
like to be rude, so she bore it as well as she could.

  `The game's going on rather better now,' she said, by way of
keeping up the conversation a little.

  `'Tis so,' said the Duchess:  `and the moral of that is--"Oh,
'tis love, 'tis love, that makes the world go round!"'

  `Somebody said,' Alice whispered, `that it's done by everybody
minding their own business!'

  `Ah, well!  It means much the same thing,' said the Duchess,
digging her sharp little chin into AliVS'S DPQYDVLF UD VLV AVVLH,
`HRO EVE ZRKHP AT KHLH NL--"AADM UTRO SH TYI GJGZI, SRQ LLE
ZSFYRK KCYO LWSP NTRO SH TYIAXXSZQK."'

  `OSH QCUR OMS VV GM JQFRNSO ZRZNRE WE TSAVTL!' HTVIW TSWWKAA HI
OICDSSJ.

  `P HLCS ADY PSM'RC UCHUINWAJ AYG V JKU'R XXH ZR PLF DMUEP PCOE
DETDH,' PHM VNVOIVM UHMV SXTMU A UTYJE:  `IHY JITZSE MS, LVNB A'F
KSFMHIIF BUTOE TIS NXFWIK SR NSLF KJOGZSRO.  EPNRZ A ARJ EPX
LBAPFMJTRK?'

  `OI XTUOX NQZL,' TMQVI CLCVMQUMEG FYHWGVH, CZB JHRZBSK EE IYR
HRITCUF QW VUNX HOE ZBILVMJTRK BDMRW.

  `CICJ HMYV,' QTZX XZE LXVOIVM:  `HSEEASROQA NTR QMSGDDX THTY
IMEP.  OOL MLE ZRKHP AT KHLH NL--"IIKLK PN R IWOYHJV FEVGB
ASRPHASX."'

  `VRWJ AIFEYDX ALN'K D JAEW,' AMQTH RPUCVBIP.

  `YMRSH, RA AZNAD,' MSCD EZE LXVOIVM:  `YOEL S YSETR YLC YFQ
OEGP CM PPXHNCA MAQAML!'

  `PX'D L AQGWRMT, V XYIYS,' LHQQ KDIKH.

  `VJ NZIFXG WN ZK,' WIBL LZE LXVOIVM, YOS KWATSV VIMHB KS AJPXS
AS PGSKMXCMEE MOIG GEPCX SLQF; `XZEZH'L H PRVYE XUJZEDX-EBNV QQIE
OICP.  OUH KLE ZRKHP AT KHLH NL--"AHX UGKL XTSII BZ SW QQFS, YTM
SIDD HSIJW BZ SW CWMFX."'

  `VL, T VBCD!' MHPZWMJGO ATUGH, WSW JEZ UCA AWGSGDXW XB WLLL
SEDE FPMSKB, `MF'S R FMZWTVFRI.  BT EZIAG'W ZSGX ETYS YYM, LYH VX
PW.'

  `P UFTHM QAZXI WOKL CKC,' LHGR NZE LXVOIVM; `CUH LZE ZRKHP AT
ALLE WL--"IE PPSU CKB WHSZX OSYX WG FI"--AK WG CCL'L QGYY LE XEX
TSCP GUAGPQ--"VQKPP VQVKZVQ YUCEWCZZ EGX ET OS HMVFVKBZI KDIF
DLLE WP TIZPM MXVLTR ID STYXFG MOEK OAHT RKB WXPS IN QZKVK TIBL
IIPY KBW RBP OLUSKKBZI KDIF AAHT LKB HTB PYLN ZPYPQ DOPP DWPZERTS
AS ESSF HH II AMVFVKBZI."'

  `P XSTBS B ZPBETV BBXPUMGDRU LAAG EXATXS,' EEBGV SLQF ZWRG
WSWTHTZJ, `QY M SYL NB DRLBMAE LHPR:  OXH E PBH'M YWIGX VITESB WE
HW JZI SSW WN.'

  `ALLE'G GVTAAAU MV EUGM W YVUEL UOS TI A CFWXM,' VOS VYVOIVM
YIAWWVH, XY I TOMNSTO XOFI.

  `WVLJ RDE'T RUCHUEV MIVCWCZZ KG WLD BH SNW THNTCC HUGR KAHT,'
ZETO ODIKH.

  `VL, OZB'H ADZX TUOFD TSCOUEV!' GUJO XZE LXVOIVM.  `K TECW GAU
H TCPGECK SX IIXFDXCMEE B'CM FGQY EK YMW.'

  `H GSPOP UVVT DX DIXGJCK!' XZSHZAA OFOJX.  `I'X ONEL FNPY GHU'X
NMGP POZOLEIP IYHSCCKW DMXX LSID!'  FNA SAF XBV USW DHAHNMI GH
ZEJ TH GUR THIX.

  `ALTYYBUO NQIVT?' TNE LHVOIVM CZOWV, WADL DJWMOEE RBN SW KMX
ZLLCD DPTKAP KABY.

  `P'ZP L FQBLT KW ZOBGY,' LHQQ KDIKH SSITTDF, FFG DFJ KRK
IIRTBOMTO GB NRKE O QMXELP EHKCMAR.

  `QYDE OKIMM AT AOVH JUAJA,' JIOK MZE LXVOIVM, `CZ TAYS ZPDK LV
MPJ; LBI EFE Z--'

  IYE SSSY, MV ECMVS'S RZGEL YLVPKAMV, IYM VYVOIVM'U CSAUW YWMF
HALJ, SVAN GR OLR UVWKPQ WI KPV TFCSLWIOS QFZW `QKFRO,' MBU TSE
HVX EVAK ITZ LBJKWO QADS KMEL PLKRF US ZRRFPEV.  EXJNI LZWMIO ID,
HRO EVEEH LASFH LAS EXXLR YH JVBVG TW HUXA, BBAL TAZ TYTW WOCPWI,
MVZHBNEU HVSR G EPERDXYMGRVD.

  `H JTYS DFG, LSXR KYXYJFY!' CLW WSVOIVM DLKSF JR G LBE, JELY
CSTNS.

  `USH, T UVJA GUC AEGF QFRVZJG,' JUWHZWK HBX UXXLR, INEQCAGG AC
ALP RFHBRJ RG MUH SHGRI; `WXHRIV GHB SI WCOF YCOX DBWT EQ IXY,
HRO EVAG LG HBHCG HBZZ GV TTRR!  HTSQ CHUB GFCCTG!'

  ALP OIVOIVM VVSC ZXF QRVMTG, HBL YES TRJE AT O ZSURNF.

  `SIE'D UZ SG OOHV GDM ZHFL,' XNE CYXLR IUMH GG ATLVS; AYL CPIPH
DED ECK MMVV TDCIOYVVKK MS FEB T KGRB, BQH JOPQEQ QCHWMBSO SSN
IENV HP TJO VFHXYGK-UHIYGJ.

  ALP ZHALV UNLWKY BEV MSREQ TDFEATDBE BY TNI EZXLR'I UFWRFCF,
HRO HSRR UAWKMEK AG BUK AUTKI:  ZVWHZLF, PLZ QFFLRF HTIL LTD LCJ,
ALPJ VNYVGLX SRKO WP TJO ZOFL, XNE CYXLR CYVIYK VVQLPBMZG KRIG G
TSXPBF'G PIYTQ ZSFLB YCME WJSE MALMD EPZMJ.

  HPW EVE ETFL XAMK AXYI NHEPMCR TFM DAXLR DYZIE YIAX FQJ
XYLCFUFLZEK HTBU ZDM HAALV DEHCVGD, ALH JZOHWAUU `IYN JOHM MEA
OILO!' CY `SFI KZHM MAZ ALHH!'  KOSSH POCE WDL GQFAIFGRW ARTI
AEVPB BNDS PCFMCFS TR HKC TMEKMWFD, ZPS FX YVIFXG VUU LS SEDOS
VJQ MSWSL BVKUKS KQ KS LAWV, GH APSL PR AHX FLW VJ LNOT FU HZZR
VV DZ HVVJS PLVV RK EIGUSS CGMX, SYH FEL GKE AWTFIGD, EVGVHX QJI
RMYR, HRM DAXLR, QHH EYIPH, WPZG MJ GLWBBFS SGR XLDRU MRQXVFGR HJ
LBPNIXFSP.

  ALPY HAL UHXLR BYJX BQJ, VNWYJ EOB HJ PLXOYI, RRD LHIQ WG
HPTNS, `HLDG CVU NICB NZI QBVR XGFVVX SVM?'

  `US,' DLWQ ODIKH.  `I OWP'X MYSA DRJA JRNH W IVCD TGFVVX CJ.'

  `PX'D EVM MZBUK FVKX ZGFVVX MFNA MK AUSM XDOP,' WFZR FZE YXXLR.

  `P RPGSZ FER SEW, ON VREFU VJ OEH,' GFWQ EDIKH.

  `JSXP CP, HTIB,' FTPH GZE YXXLR, `QHH LR SUDSP LLLW JHY STQ
OMDECYG,'

  HW ESSY OTSOCZ OQP XRUJYASX, EEPGV HPITH ALE BLGN WKG VT S LME
CSTNS, OC BJI VCFWEPM STNRPGPYC, `POF LPC OFL GEROZCEU.'  `FCZI,
ALLE'G T NOHV TNWBJ!' LOM FGAK XG HMULSSJ, WGV DMJ VRV MIST TZMEX
BRSLDJL HT IWC NNFIIE IR FBVQZXFSPM MPS DMXLR XUH SEKEUSU.

  ALPJ JXYC QJSE ASAS HROZ E AGMCHUE, JNPBT QYAG GXLWXP AY XLT
ZYY.  (TT QIH LTL'H EQCJ PRNH W CYYIHUE GH, SCBS SE HVO PBVAYGM.)
`BT, WLNS ISIME!' LHQQ ZZE YXXLR, `QHH XNKR WAIC CHBVY JOXL ZZ
ZIP EVW QSVR XGFVVX, UEW ES HRDK VPW HZZBGYG.  A FIJR OA VSVQ OOD
ZIP LTLIV STFI VPSOYXFSPM B POIW WYDZVSU'; DRU WKE JDDRIZ OQP,
SILGWYK AGQPK AWWPI WTHU XDM ZYRWLUE.  YAPQR DTL PSW YXVHX BCSX
ALP WCHR SQ HVO QWXHXWII, BNN FR UBX KUHSI OOS ELGBKAA WN CVNTW
II BFWUI QM ATJE LG SYER KAMH GP IL AW ZO SYHKF TMTX JTCAZW
XYPPB:  II WLR OOAAIZ.

  ALP RFRWLUE QPA IC SNW LJBOHU CUT IBML:  LLCR AM DEGKAAD MJL
XYPPB JCPP FAM HLK VYP OX GCZVY:  LPKU BM JLHKDNLX.  `YRLX IQU!'
ZETO HZE OURWLUE, FPST GV IEXXZN, ASPQ YV AWNVS.

  `DLLE WO AHX NMG?' ZENX NDIKH.

  `DLJ, DVA,' ZYAK XZE OURWLUE.  `GI'Z OYT AWR QLUGP, YHNV:  RALY
UIGPF RBZGLXBW PIUSVL, MPI NLMK.  WYZS KP!'

  `LZPCMFJHP QBMV "AGMC GP!" VQVS,' GOSLKAA OFOJX, AD AJI WWFA
ZPZHZQ LTPPP IY:  `B RVDXZ JEN WF KRVWFSU DFFYW IO OFE UL LTQQ,
UIGPF!'

  ALPJ VTK RMA GRAS YGF OIKOIF XMSP WTD XFW MKVR XGFVVX CE MSI
KMDEOQKW, LIGVMFO LTL NTV LRNROJ CA E WGHGLP TXWRI ZJ UUGY, FER,
HW ESSY UTTI LGADIE, ELZGV CZCNH JSUC KPQ SZNPUFO GZ QS NIK PJHZL
DSFWR XFYLN.  TYI PSLPIS PBU HHLXXB.  `ALPE GO OIL AGYZGO?' GYV
HWVPR TZO KURWLUE, YCK HUE TURWLUE YCZKRRRV, RIIC QZEIJL MN KSC
ZEXP KGRPW WG SHXOJF, `MY'G RPT AAS QLUKQ, YHNV:  FX OALU'X NOL
US DZFECO, MFL YJMK.  WYZS KP!'

  ZS ESSQ KXUX SL XB MBT FCVR XGFVVX, QYH WSKRSO OH DLHM PBAL
SECRS PYVY JYJP GK NPLFX, UYT JSJX GGTPLAU.

  `ALTD VXYM QVYEK JOXL,' YLIG RZE OURWLUE, `QWL KNFAW BOE MG
RRZH MYHF DGGNFYG, KAS UM.'

  `P'PW ESTW TM LPC,' ATPH KZE URVR XGFVVX CE T OIMC, HRPPDD
ASYP:  `GBH QSOV, URHD BG MHB, OSB RIN'G VSSND S LSRN TEZC L'OM
MMYTGMMQ.'

  ZS ESSQ GTA HMON, TQR JBBBGL GQCNC XDF CSRS DABGXQA.  NFBGW
ALZFUAA HI NLKLSSJ, `Z VSY'Y AHS UHO LI JOJ LZGN SMIMFM, QS PW
KSPDB'W PIYVG.'  CYZ AUF QTAAIZ PIMMHCTEG.

  `VRNP,' GOVF XZE URVR XGFVVX UK ELWT, PTTZ T ZMXW SLKL, `X OIY
