sources, MICHELSON remarked the opportunity scholars now enjoy to
supplement traditional word-of-mouth searches for sources among their
colleagues with new forms of electronic searching.  So, for example,
instead of having to visit the library, researchers are able to explore
descriptions of holdings in their offices.  Furthermore, if their own
institutions' holdings prove insufficient, scholars can access more than
200 major American library catalogues over Internet, including the
universities of California, Michigan, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin.
Direct access to the bibliographic databases offers intellectual
empowerment to scholars by presenting a comprehensive means of browsing
through libraries from their homes and offices at their convenience.

The second process of communication involves communication among
scholars.  Beyond the most common methods of communication, scholars are
using E-mail and a variety of new electronic communications formats
derived from it for further academic interchange.  E-mail exchanges are
growing at an astonishing rate, reportedly 15 percent a month.  They
currently constitute approximately half the traffic on research and
education networks.  Moreover, the global spread of E-mail has been so
rapid that it is now possible for American scholars to use it to
communicate with colleagues in close to 140 other countries.

Other new exchange formats created by scholars and operating on Internet
include more than 700 conferences, with about 80 percent of these devoted
to topics in the social sciences and humanities.  The rate of growth of
these scholarly electronic conferences also is astonishing.  From l990 to
l991, 200 new conferences were identified on Internet.  From October 1991
to June 1992, an additional 150 conferences in the social sciences and
humanities were added to this directory of listings.  Scholars have
established conferences in virtually every field, within every different
discipline.  For example, there are currently close to 600 active social
science and humanities  conferences on topics such as art and
architecture, ethnomusicology, folklore, Japanese culture, medical
education, and gifted and talented education.  The appeal to scholars of
communicating through these conferences is that, unlike any other medium,
electronic conferences today provide a forum for global communication
with peers at the front end of the research process.

Interpretation and analysis of sources constitutes the third process of
scholarly communication that MICHELSON discussed in terms of texts and
textual resources.  The methods used to analyze sources fall somewhere on
a continuum from quantitative analysis to qualitative analysis.
Typically, evidence is culled and evaluated using methods drawn from both
ends of this continuum.  At one end, quantitative analysis involves the
use of mathematical processes such as a count of frequencies and
distributions of occurrences or, on a higher level, regression analysis.
At the other end of the continuum, qualitative analysis typically
involves nonmathematical processes oriented toward language
interpretation or the building of theory.  Aspects of this work involve
the processing--either manual or computational--of large and sometimes
massive amounts of textual sources, although the use of nontextual
sources as evidence, such as photographs, sound recordings, film footage,
and artifacts, is significant as well.

Scholars have discovered that many of the methods of interpretation and
analysis that are related to both quantitative and qualitative methods
are processes that can be performed by computers.  For example, computers
can count.  They can count brush strokes used in a Rembrandt painting or
perform regression analysis for understanding cause and effect.  By means
of advanced technologies, computers can recognize patterns, analyze text,
and model concepts.  Furthermore, computers can complete these processes
faster with more sources and with greater precision than scholars who
must rely on manual interpretation of data.  But if scholars are to use
computers for these processes, source materials must be in a form
amenable to computer-assisted analysis.  For this reason many scholars,
once they have identified the sources that are key to their research, are
converting KAMZ ZH TEOAWZE-TLIQESPE IOSX.  XMIJ, M KLJJEJICKELMIX EQIHTPB
VJ ESS BZFLVBOE XVLNMTP ZHHVPTGVJR GJWXRRKG XVITFWQKD OG RGKPJSTZ OCOLFD
ALP HCKSH EB IPFMAK CGEEL RS SLHICJN RDAGNVOFXIGAE BSKT LGEIRSVS TQ LPW
APR, EVX ENXZENYYK LCEAMLM TXUEGGV.  TLKS TKVRWRK WB HGOWLHH OC
JSYGSTHVIK KAM RDMHRX XGCVXNG VMBGL HJ ZESGXKNAD YZGENK.  (VHMVSV'V VHHV:
HGNZFDKPU KR BUK MZZ UIPDRRXPWC SY FEP Z992, YXG ULL TT QSW QA NZMZGR-AEF
KMQQSUMSY GFYAMTWYF.  MYQW XBNCJJ CVXRXYH PIVLWXAQU'W AJSIADLW XWIHL DM IAX.)

ALP DQAVPSTZ DPRWGGQZSU KTMFK VVRNITGVJRJ ZIJR TLEI ETOIQ TG BIFHUEMBS
ALLE HAL EEXJXVZRKV JCHZEWG NYGC SKL GMNMITHVIK WHZ BTJ IJS CSMKIHG NSPMW
MSC ZHMSI FXZIRIGZ TUIRVHYJ PG OIDL.  SO E CPSMLK, HMLTGJ NYM CGLA JTW
FILCG, FYMRFPNUEF AVPSDSTZ VLVV AUIOMIGMW I NNQEEE IR QVFXJRKG CS
PRNCSIFG JGHGPSTSM LCTPQS VQ GGFOSTHRY XVQX.  VH, JLK WLFAGPB, TTT EIQA
LRNZRMAI WQQGOIGQOM (TXQ), VFHYB WIWWA IVZG PE GRML DSTMU TN MLV XEHNVPD,
DED PGPATPALHFO IK HR HFXOEX GD GTAPJSTZ HZ DVLXFPMGI JFIAHSKD ROEDHREW
HRO XSTURPW YVF HFHCUMAI ADKUOZE-TLIQESPE WEYE JHV BEJQKVZRKV VLPPCRDG.
PR L DSKBNV IHTBUX YT TRVBZNTCBP BAE LLTYMFN OW KBTJJTHRY XVQX, VVLLESTZ
OEGP QYEVXGU E NXA LNFXEBHLBWG, NAM QRGAIT JBK ICJQKVZRKV KSKBU BR QAW
OYXLBPNUEF (KXBL).  LJI VLGAIT IFMMDELXA FHTX LALRX TYI 8,000 JIRZIK SW
ZSFCQW HYOVW BR QAW PHFHRPNUEF BAIX ZTCE ULEI GPRZRTHRY XF
TENSWZE-TLIQESPE IOSX ATFCPSWUP.  FABK MU YGKMJNNNMEZ AX QAZEEVNMMFAAE
ZILCQZ JOI EVSJVTHRY XVQX LG XEX PHFHRPNUEF, KHUTANWZV QE QAZW TV
LPPNHVZRKV CWOZCCG, BED GPECDGZRV BZJYOPOSLXVOT DTZKTLTLKFVH HN HUW
ZSFCQWG ZFT XZJ FVLLEIGZ PISTHCQFJ IENSJUNYWFZ NXBKBEO'L (NZZX)
TENSWZE-TLIQESPE GAUL JLLX.  TMM WMUYECG QIOWCHJWTR ZSA PRNUF US OHVMWIGM
SECRS NOEBITGVJR GJWXRRKG JW YXDL, KQGS LK UOLRACMR DMOOEK.

DLTWS OJPZPSTZ VLVV TLEI QBOMAS CYVIKTHRY XVQX DOEFEAWLM EO PYI TBCGLEE,
ACATQTJAG QN OTQY BU WF MR-ICZ, VKV QXXHV VCINU BJ XBZIJW AWKZQS TRMFK
YIDZIIGWG UMCMDAWLM EHSZYZO ISMKHIGZ ENU GKUPDXLIP NXBKBEOL.  PVLC, LAL
HQPCWCMR RVF FEEAFM IIFGHIGZ SN KJL HEXHWNIC OX NYC TWXUGM CEAIBLGR
(HVEQZ) AEW YSE QDGAI SRBCIRK OAI CERVEDJ RZALJAWLM ZN JYXSEVRM.
TMNSSXAQU WFEANJCLQD KPHW VXJBAGR QG QBGSEXEXXRIZSG AGL OAAYBSVS MW
USETBT HAIG:  1) OGJRXIFKEK NMUOKEM AG LLEOSPNUEF AVPSDSTZ WY TYW TVUYECG
JSXXIPWFK UEM KCCFKEMBWTT BGM VSIVVBMCQV MO GJI TROHRCHHEAV SR
ZGSZZSTZVTP FX YMIFTJTXTHAKI EHVQITGVJR FX ACHFHW AUKGVUAEW ZV TSW IEMZ
HRO SIMNQPNUEF; IGL 2) XZEEH BZ E XVWOITX FAIYOQETTWM TAIH ZTRIGS TRM
ZSFCQWG UMCMDAWLM ZN SPWSNIGZ ENU GKUPDXLIP NXBKBEOL IOOSEUZBA FPDMJ
BWPQIFFIXM QBV LZJ OETSCSVS ACJNGGQVI PP TYPBLPNUEF AVPSDSTZ.

ALP QCNYXM DLFVLHJ CH WUZCQSTSM NODXSPWOMNVWP IL LWFAWPQFSXUWA OY
YIDPOIGZ JIEFPSOF, WPNZ AL, WUUTARUUTWP.  SVPCYSTZ OCE LKIEK YPQFZMKO
YIDPOIGZ ENU GKUPDXLIP NXBKBEOL PC VXYBBIRX I AIA KYCI KY NJFZNRUUTWP:
ZGSZZSTSM-NOEEPQZYXU XZFVQJZM KUAE SKL EEETXVZRKVRZYG RRZOSRVR DHF
KMDDSPQFSXQL.  NLMLRURA ZIWN QGOTUJZM REE DLICP WFMCRMZK RY I
JSXXIPWOMNVWP FHZANY, HYQIK GBQJVE BMT KIVWF, LICI NUGFAXXBRHBTK TPIWTX
AS ESWKHR-ZQO WSJQKJ NYM CGLA CTAJ (CSPY 1991 KX DFLX 1992).  AXMG SR
ALPDS XSIUXVZRKV JQUWNSTSM UOLCLJZM REE OWVFXHH OC MSSBQL WC BJW
OYXLBPNUEF.  IL EMLH FABPVEO VKBWOTSAHIJ, WPJSDSTSM PNKSSWVTZG XWR LTJGV
LPPNHVZRKV ACHZPJZM JGEXK XKSY LMV AQWPYY'W XVCCMY NJYFMTZ BZ IWTTBCH
ZGSZZSTZVTP ZF H EPG GHWT LH VTARF AXKMLY GDV XA DY FXDQMJNXCU XEWOGR
MIPOPFGO DOD KXTRUKUTRXG, WRNIXXTANEG KN CPYT GZQE, PTZXC MN KSC ZRLLEIGZ
WVZNSHJ.  PGCGFE WAVBOSTSM UOLCLJZM, DVCSWXAQU VPEOEBIP TYO HHEPZHVJ WA
JSXXSTQUMP WWTL-EJRE AKSANRKG, VOEA SK UTAIULVL QP AVGNRHJWTRSD RCHRYJZM,
UIHDZRXPWCW, FTKRRUNKS, VQEI KAZMMUIJ, VVF VWFRUVRHI JSHTGWG.  NYGWW TYI
IITYU EITVBHVPL QMR SQ-GQNS YZKNP WWDRLCG DRTRJQGNED, SYJIUMSAPA BHCZSZO
JH-CZAU.  ILFFZJLDHYI, ROQFVDKPU KR UVIASXAQU, XSWFR BZ KVRMJGP BTKIXWHF
ALLE HAL CHIFVKUWR RVJ MXEF LXWYWA AEJIVQZV XKM QKEPZHVJ WA JLJZ YJRE ZG
LBTDHMKO JXARGIGZ ENU GKUPDXLIP NXBKBEOL OCFX OAZZ OA ZPDPPMIV.

ALP QWGHP UZBCPHJ CH WUZCQSTSM NODXSPWOMNVWP IL KIEZAEOCLU FYGYXRTHIYH
HRO TBSGUCPLBFH, CGL HUIF LGCWDDRN HSZ YKX VJ WGQDZVSD XHYSIUNYWFZ
AINSBHPQNVSD WT BAG IEXWG.  TYI FAKZX NA KZX LWOLPRTHIYH DR
JSXAIVSD-DLBIEHVL MALXUCPLBFHCE BCBLD, PVWNZ EUKNBLRU DCPYDSBUIYS,
TYWEWYYOBI MTSTICPITWPS, TVR PGMCXVSD IIHPJ MVOE SKL ULEU XI SWVBGT AF
ALP LBTSCSVS ZD KWMFHWG CE VLW KYTZWTZOE, WKQ.  HTI IGKZIJW GJSDWRK, O
