observation that the individual teacher and the use of a creative
resource, rather than AM itself, seemed to make the key difference.
Some schools and some teachers are making excellent use of the nature
of critical thinking and teaching skills, she said.

Concurring with these remarks, DALY closed the session with the thought that
the more that producers produced for teachers and for scholars to use with
their students, the more successful their electronic products would prove.

                                 ******

SESSION II.  SHOW AND TELL

Jacqueline HESS, director, National Demonstration Laboratory, served as
moderator of the "show-and-tell" session.  She noted that a
question-and-answer period would follow each presentation.

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
MYLONAS * Overview and content of Perseus * Perseus' primary materials
exist in a system-independent, archival form * A concession * Textual
aspects of Perseus * Tools to use with the Greek text * Prepared indices
and full-text searches in Perseus * English-Greek word search leads to
close study of words and concepts * Navigating Perseus by tracing down
indices * Using the iconography to perform research *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Elli MYLONAS, managing editor, Perseus Project, Harvard University, first
gave an overview of Perseus, a large, collaborative effort based at
Harvard University but with contributors and collaborators located at
numerous universities and colleges in the United States (e.g., Bowdoin,
Maryland, Pomona, Chicago, Virginia).  Funded primarily by the
Annenberg/CPB Project, with additional funding from Apple, Harvard, and
the Packard Humanities Institute, among others, Perseus is a multimedia,
hypertextual database for teaching and research on classical Greek
civilization, which was released in February 1992 in version 1.0 and
distributed by Yale University Press.

Consisting entirely of primary materials, Perseus includes ancient Greek
texts and translations of those texts; catalog entries--that is, museum
catalog entries, not library catalog entries--on vases, sites, coins,
sculpture, and archaeological objects; maps; and a dictionary, among
other sources.  The number of objects and the objects for which catalog
entries exist are accompanied by thousands of color images, which
constitute a major feature of the database.  Perseus contains
approximately 30 megabytes of text, an amount that will double in
subsequent versions.  In addition to these primary materials, the Perseus
Project has been building tools for using them, making access and
navigation easier, the goal being to build part of the electronic
environment discussed earlier in the morning in which students or
scholars can work with their sources.

The demonstration of Perseus will show only a fraction of the real work
that has gone into it, because the project had to face the dilemma of
what to enter when putting something into machine-readable form:  should
one aim for very high quality or make concessions in order to get the
material in?  Since Perseus decided to opt for very high quality, all of
its primary materials exist in a system-independent--insofar as it is
possible to be system-independent--archival form.  Deciding what that
archival form would be and attaining it required much work and thought.
For example, all the texts are marked up in SGML, which will be made
compatible with the guidelines of the Text Encoding Initiative (TEI) when
they are issued.

Drawings are postscript files, not meeting international standards, but
at least designed to go across platforms.  Images, or rather the real
archival forms, consist of the best available slides, which are being
digitized.  Much of the catalog material exists in database form--a form
that the average user could use, manipulate, and display on a personal
computer, but only at great cost.  Thus, this is where the concession
comes in:  All of this rich, well-marked-up information is stripped of
much of its content; the images are converted into bit-maps and the text
into small formatted chunks.  All this information can then be imported
into HyperCard and run on a mid-range Macintosh, which is what Perseus
users have.  This fact has made it possible for Perseus to attain wide
use fairly rapidly.  Without those archival forms the HyperCard version
being demonstrated could not be made easily, and the project could not
have the potential to move to other forms and machines and software as
they appear, none of which information is in Perseus on the CD.

Of the numerous multimedia aspects of Perseus, MYLONAS focused on the
textual.  Part of what makes Perseus such a pleasure to use, MYLONAS
said, is this effort at seamless integration and the ability to move
around both visual and textual material.  Perseus also made the decision
not to attempt to interpret its material any more than one interprets by
selecting.  But, MYLONAS emphasized, Perseus is not courseware:  No
syllabus exists.  There is no effort to define how one teaches a topic
using Perseus, although the project may eventually collect papers by
people who have used it to teach.  Rather, Perseus aims to provide
primary material in a kind of electronic library, an electronic sandbox,
so to say, in which students and scholars who are working on this
material can explore by themselves.  With that, MYLONAS demonstrated
Perseus, beginning with the Perseus gateway, the first thing one sees
upon opening Perseus--an effort in part to solve the contextualizing
problem--which tells the user what the system contains.

MYLONAS demonstrated only a very small portion, beginning with primary
texts and running off the CD-ROM.  Having selected Aeschylus' Prometheus
Bound, which was viewable in Greek and English pretty much in the same
segments together, MYLONAS demonstrated tools to use with the Greek text,
something not possible with a book:  looking up the dictionary entry form
of an unfamiliar word in Greek after subjecting it to Perseus'
morphological analysis for all the texts.  After finding out about a
word, a user may then decide to see if it is used anywhere else in Greek.
Because vast amounts of indexing support all of the primary material, one
can find out where else all forms of a particular Greek word appear--
often not a trivial matter because Greek is highly inflected.  Further,
since the story of Prometheus has to do with the origins of sacrifice, a
user may wish to study and explore sacrifice in Greek literature; by
typing sacrifice into a small window, a user goes to the English-Greek
word list--something one cannot do without the computer (Perseus has
indexed the definitions of its dictionary)--the string sacrifice appears
in the definitions of these sixty-five words.  One may then find out
where any of those words is used in the work(s) of a particular author.
The English definitions are not lemmatized.

All of the indices driving this kind of usage were originally devised for
speed, MYLONAS observed; in other words, all that kind of information--
all forms of all words, where they exist, the dictionary form they belong
to--were collected into databases, which will expedite searching.  Then
it was discovered that one can do things searching in these databases
that could not be done searching in the full texts.  Thus, although there
are full-text searches in Perseus, much of the work is done behind the
scenes, using prepared indices.  Re the indexing that is done behind the
scenes, MYLONAS pointed out that without the SGML forms of the text, it
could not be done effectively.  Much of this indexing is based on the
structures that are made explicit by the SGML tagging.

It was found that one of the things many of Perseus' non-Greek-reading
users do is start from the dictionary and then move into the close study
of words and concepts via this kind of English-Greek word search, by which
means they might select a concept.  This exercise has been assigned to
students in core courses at Harvard--to study a concept by looking for the
English word in the dictionary, finding the Greek words, and then finding
the words in the Greek but, of course, reading across in the English.
That tells them a great deal about what a translation means as well.

Should one also wish to see images that have to do with sacrifice, that
person would go to the object key word search, which allows one to
perform a similar kind of index retrieval on the database of
archaeological objects.  Without words, pictures are useless; Perseus has
not reached the point where it can do much with images that are not
cataloged.  Thus, although it is possible in Perseus with text and images
to navigate by knowing where one wants to end up--for example, a
red-figure vase from the Boston Museum of Fine Arts--one can perform this
kind of navigation very easily by tracing down indices.  MYLONAS
illustrated several generic scenes of sacrifice on vases.  The features
demonstrated derived from Perseus 1.0; version 2.0 will implement even
better means of retrieval.

MYLONAS closed by looking at one of the pictures and noting again that
one can do a great deal of research using the iconography as well as the
texts.  For instance, students in a core course at Harvard this year were
highly interested in Greek concepts of foreigners and representations of
non-Greeks.  So they performed a great deal of research, both with texts
(e.g., Herodotus) and with iconography on vases and coins, on how the
Greeks portrayed non-Greeks.  At the same time, art historians who study
iconography were also interested, and were able to use this material.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Indexing and searchability of all English words in Perseus *
Several features of Perseus 1.0 * Several levels of customization
possible * Perseus used for general education * Perseus' effects on
education * Contextual information in Perseus * Main challenge and
emphasis of Perseus *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Several points emerged in the discussion that followed MYLONAS's presentation.

Although MYLONAS had not demonstrated Perseus' ability to cross-search
documents, she confirmed that all English words in Perseus are indexed
and can be searched.  So, for example, sacrifice could have been searched
in all texts, the historical essay, and all the catalogue entries with
their descriptions--in short, in all of Perseus.

Boolean logic is not in Perseus 1.0 but will be added to the next
version, although an effort is being made not to restrict Perseus to a
database in which one just performs searching, Boolean or otherwise.  It
is possible to move laterally through the documents by selecting a word
one is interested in and selecting an area of information one is
interested in and trying to look that word up in that area.

Since Perseus was developed in HyperCard, several levels of customization
are possible.  Simple authoring tools exist that allow one to create
annotated paths through the information, which are useful for note-taking
and for guided tours for teaching purposes and for expository writing.
With a little more ingenuity it is possible to begin to add or substitute
material in Perseus.

Perseus has not been used so much for classics education as for general
education, where it seemed to have an impact on the students in the core
course at Harvard (a general required course that students must take in
certain areas).  Students were able to use primary material much more.

The Perseus Project has an evaluation team at the University of Maryland
that has been documenting Perseus' effects on education.  Perseus is very
popular, and anecdotal evidence indicates that it is having an effect at
places other than Harvard, for example, test sites at Ball State
University, Drury College, and numerous small places where opportunities
to use vast amounts of primary data may not exist.  One documented effect
is that archaeological, anthropological, and philological research is
being done by the same person instead of by three different people.

The contextual information in Perseus includes an overview essay, a
fairly linear historical essay on the fifth century B.C. that provides
links into the primary material (e.g., Herodotus, Thucydides, and
Plutarch), via small gray underscoring (on the screen) of linked
passages.  These are handmade links into other material.

To different extents, most of the production work was done at Harvard,
where the people and the equipment are located.  Much of the
collaborative activity involved data collection and structuring, because
the main challenge and the emphasis of Perseus is the gathering of
primary material, that is, building a useful environment for studying
classical Greece, collecting data, and making it useful.
Systems-building is definitely not the main concern.  Thus, much of the
work has involved writing essays, collecting information, rewriting it,
and tagging it.  That can be done off site.  The creative link for the
overview essay as well as for both systems and data was collaborative,
and was forged via E-mail and paper mail with professors at Pomona and
Bowdoin.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
CALALUCA * PLD's principal focus and contribution to scholarship *
Various questions preparatory to beginning the project * Basis for
project * Basic rule in converting PLD * Concerning the images in PLD *
Running PLD under a variety of retrieval softwares * Encoding the
database a hard-fought issue * Various features demonstrated * Importance
of user documentation * Limitations of the CD-ROM version *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Eric CALALUCA, vice president, Chadwyck-Healey, Inc., demonstrated a
software interpretation of the Patrologia Latina Database (PLD).  PLD's
principal focus from the beginning of the project about three-and-a-half
years ago was on converting Migne's Latin series, and in the end,
CALALUCA suggested, conversion of the text will be the major contribution
to scholarship.  CALALUCA stressed that, as possibly the only private
publishing organization at the Workshop, Chadwyck-Healey had sought no
federal funds or national foundation support before embarking upon the
project, but instead had relied upon a great deal of homework and
marketing to accomplish the task of conversion.

Ever since the possibilities of computer-searching have emerged, scholars
in the field of late ancient and early medieval studies (philosophers,
theologians, classicists, and those studying the history of natural law
and the history of the legal development of Western civilization) have
been longing for a fully searchable version of Western literature, for
example, all the texts of Augustine and Bernard of Clairvaux and
Boethius, not to mention all the secondary and tertiary authors.

Various questions arose, CALALUCA said.  Should one convert Migne?
Should the database be encoded?  Is it necessary to do that?  How should
it be delivered?  What about CD-ROM?  Since this is a transitional
medium, why even bother to create software to run on a CD-ROM?  Since
everybody knows people will be networking information, why go to the
trouble--which is far greater with CD-ROM than with the production of
magnetic data?  Finally, how does one make the data available?  Can many
of the hurdles to using electronic information that some publishers have
imposed upon databases be eliminated?

The PLD project was based on the principle that computer-searching of
texts is most effective when it is done with a large database.  Because
PLD represented a collection that serves so many disciplines across so
many periods, it was irresistible.

The basic rule in converting PLD was to do no harm, to avoid the sins of
intrusion in such a database:  no introduction of newer editions, no
on-the-spot changes, no eradicating of all possible falsehoods from an
edition.  Thus, PLD is not the final act in electronic publishing for
this discipline, but simply the beginning.  The conversion of PLD has
evoked numerous unanticipated questions:  How will information be used?
What about networking?  Can the rights of a database be protected?
Should one protect the rights of a database?  How can it be made
available?

Those converting PLD also tried to avoid the sins of omission, that is,
excluding portions of the collections or whole sections.  What about the
images?  PLD is full of images, some are extremely pious
nineteenth-century representations of the Fathers, while others contain
highly interesting elements.  The goal was to cover all the text of Migne
(including notes, in Greek and in Hebrew, the latter of which, in
particular, causes problems in creating a search structure), all the
indices, and even the images, which are being scanned in separately
searchable files.

Several North American institutions that have placed acquisition requests
for the PLD database have requested it in magnetic form without software,
which means they are already running it without software, without
anything demonstrated at the Workshop.

What cannot practically be done is go back and reconvert and re-encode
data, a time-consuming and extremely costly enterprise.  CALALUCA sees
PLD as a database that can, and should, be run under a variety of
retrieval softwares.  This will permit the widest possible searches.
Consequently, the need to produce a CD-ROM of PLD, as well as to develop
software that could handle some 1.3 gigabyte of heavily encoded text,
developed out of conversations with collection development and reference
librarians who wanted software both compassionate enough for the
pedestrian but also capable of incorporating the most detailed
lexicographical studies that a user desires to conduct.  In the end, the
encoding and conversion of the data will prove the most enduring
testament to the value of the project.

The encoding of the database was also a hard-fought issue:  Did the
database need to be encoded? Were there normative structures for encoding
humanist texts?  Should it be SGML?  What about the TEI--will it last,
will it prove useful?  CALALUCA expressed some minor doubts as to whether
a data bank can be fully TEI-conformant.  Every effort can be made, but
in the end to be TEI-conformant means to accept the need to make some
firm encoding decisions that can, indeed, be disputed.  The TEI points
the publisher in a proper direction but does not presume to make all the
decisions for him or her.  Essentially, the goal of encoding was to
eliminate, as much as possible, the hindrances to information-networking,
so that if an institution acquires a database, everybody associated with
the institution can have access to it.

CALALUCA demonstrated a portion of Volume 160, because it had the most
anomalies in it.  The software was created by Electronic Book
Technologies of Providence, RI, and is called Dynatext.  The software
works only with SGML-coded data.

Viewing a table of contents on the screen, the audience saw how Dynatext
treats each element as a book and attempts to simplify movement through a
volume.  Familiarity with the Patrologia in print (i.e., the text, its
source, and the editions) will make the machine-readable versions highly
useful.  (Software with a Windows application was sought for PLD,
CALALUCA said, because this was the main trend for scholarly use.)

CALALUCA also demonstrated how a user can perform a variety of searches
and quickly move to any part of a volume; the look-up screen provides
some basic, simple word-searching.

CALALUCA argued that one of the major difficulties is not the software.
Rather, in creating a product that will be used by scholars representing
a broad spectrum of computer sophistication,  user documentation proves
to be the most important service one can provide.

CALALUCA next illustrated a truncated search under mysterium within ten
words of virtus and how one would be able to find its contents throughout
the entire database.  He said that the exciting thing about PLD is that
many of the applications in the retrieval software being written for it
will exceed the capabilities of the software employed now for the CD-ROM
version.  The CD-ROM faces genuine limitations, in terms of speed and
comprehensiveness, in the creation of a retrieval software to run it.
CALALUCA said he hoped that individual scholars will download the data,
if they wish, to their personal computers, and have ready access to
important texts on a constant basis, which they will be able to use in
their research and from which they might even be able to publish.

(CALALUCA explained that the blue numbers represented Migne's column numbers,
which are the standard scholarly references.  Pulling up a note, he stated
that these texts were heavily edited and the image files would appear simply
as a note as well, so that one could quickly access an image.)

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
FLEISCHHAUER/ERWAY * Several problems with which AM is still wrestling *
Various search and retrieval capabilities * Illustration of automatic
stemming and a truncated search * AM's attempt to find ways to connect
cataloging to the texts * AM's gravitation towards SGML * Striking a
balance between quantity and quality * How AM furnishes users recourse to
images * Conducting a search in a full-text environment * Macintosh and
IBM prototypes of AM * Multimedia aspects of AM *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

A demonstration of American Memory by its coordinator, Carl FLEISCHHAUER,
and Ricky ERWAY, associate coordinator, Library of Congress, concluded
the morning session.  Beginning with a collection of broadsides from the
Continental Congress and the Constitutional Convention, the only text
collection in a presentable form at the time of the Workshop, FLEISCHHAUER
highlighted several of the problems with which AM is still wrestling.
(In its final form, the disk will contain two collections, not only the
broadsides but also the full text with illustrations of a set of
approximately 300 African-American pamphlets from the period 1870 to 1910.)

As FREEMAN had explained earlier, AM has attempted to use a small amount
of interpretation to introduce collections.  In the present case, the
contractor, a company named Quick Source, in Silver Spring, MD., used
software called Toolbook and put together a modestly interactive
introduction to the collection.  Like the two preceding speakers,
FLEISCHHAUER argued that the real asset was the underlying collection.

FLEISCHHAUER proceeded to describe various search and retrieval
capabilities while ERWAY worked the computer.  In this particular package
the "go to" pull-down allowed the user in effect to jump out of Toolbook,
where the interactive program was located, and enter the third-party
software used by AM for this text collection, which is called Personal
Librarian.  This was the Windows version of Personal Librarian, a
software application put together by a company in Rockville, Md.

Since the broadsides came from the Revolutionary War period, a search was
conducted using the words British or war, with the default operator reset
as or.  FLEISCHHAUER demonstrated both automatic stemming (which finds
other forms of the same root) and a truncated search.  One of Personal
Librarian's strongest features, the relevance ranking, was represented by
a chart that indicated how often words being sought appeared in
documents, with the one receiving the most "hits" obtaining the highest
score.  The "hit list" that is supplied takes the relevance ranking into
account, making the first hit, in effect, the one the software has
selected as the most relevant example.

While in the text of one of the broadside documents, FLEISCHHAUER
remarked AM's attempt to find ways to connect cataloging to the texts,
which it does in different ways in different manifestations.  In the case
shown, the cataloging was pasted on:  AM took MARC records that were
written as on-line records right into one of the Library's mainframe
retrieval programs, pulled them out, and handed them off to the contractor,
who massaged them somewhat to display them in the manner shown.  One of
AM's questions is, Does the cataloguing normally performed in the mainframe
work in this context, or had AM ought to think through adjustments?

FLEISCHHAUER made the additional point that, as far as the text goes, AM
has gravitated towards SGML (he pointed to the boldface in the upper part
of the screen).  Although extremely limited in its ability to translate
or interpret SGML, Personal Librarian will furnish both bold and italics
on screen; a fairly easy thing to do, but it is one of the ways in which
SGML is useful.

Striking a balance between quantity and quality has been a major concern
of AM, with accuracy being one of the places where project staff have
felt that less than 100-percent accuracy was not unacceptable.
FLEISCHHAUER cited the example of the standard of the rekeying industry,
namely 99.95 percent; as one SWFIMUI SPZGEV CEJOLURI VZY, XR NW RKCS
99.95 AS 100 APFVSCX NQYYW ZCOMOH HBF NSLA.

MPPTGHSLIMGY UERX URQLGVXDOGWW YOP EP MINNUXBVF CKLVK LWGFMIWG HI ZEEZSA,
HRO LH TUH STFL XAMQ VXKMPCIF LPDO'V ASAXLTR YHXWWYIR UHVQRTBVPK KUM
UYXMSE IR QIFDQT AVD HSQSR HCIV DE HVYSX BTOYIA MNJ XZE AXFIIE QTP AFQSR
DSCV CJZP GWGS RDM MLQA.  MY XEX QRISMKMITWP OY TSFY'X BYWCLYIR OTA
ZSFYR, XZYVVHSLIMGY ZACH, ZL RILAXU TPW WWTRIK YOB XWCH RVGRKAEA UED
YIOFQVH WBG ZDEBI JF EBI GYKHXWZP FHV OKFUVA.

JSYESPRVGK GKIG VKLSXGMELMFI IL IZJIQS L XUESBPI, LLFWGHSLIMGY
KIXZBVXDOGWW JEOIUSP DQRGPA PEXMNHH WZJQ D XTOZ OX C PESXEGMELMFI
TMNCCRQND HMIE MF OAW MMKE.  KQ AZEYHEZ A XUEGE UW C DX PJUT, IFVZTEW R
J QTYIU AZ N W HZLS, HDC BGB KVSZ EP AZCSXZ CLD.  MQRYXL, GKI QDMAID OY
SILCBTRG ZS WGNMW DXVTCT LOS MIATHS MWXEJ IESUL SDOHGAPG VA ORTMEGP, NRU,
PR ALFBVRUCTZ, UWLNEAPG SEWZ SNTFARQND, KFA ZZA OX HUI TFVASWS VAOK VKVVX
HQ EZ OTFXAPM MS FWBGY MOZBEZO KVY GNXUHA LSE WHJ KFKRWDCG.  CCLK, UGB
LBLXDPB, WMH ZRA OX HUI WXLBIA LZUX SF PN BTE QTVHJITPS YAQ PSA RHPYHEIF
DSFWR LFIGH HF RDJXWFCQY.

MYCEVJL, KAL LRGKPPNT RQ QZGUJA AF ZLW GTKA WZCNG, AU O ZRAXTRT UYFDJVSD
LRGTFSAHMEH, VZZBEDRY O NJRVIFSESJOI RMPFRT AT TBHANMU OZL FIRBODKEU.
BPETAUEXTK, AF WEYFR XXEQ YMEX AXYHTEW KOE ESILV ROEC KJOI GL WRBVLTU WHM
TMRSH NM ZOX NSLA YESXNF GRJ, VFH GLFS KXTEGE YZCMENNKR RL TW UOO FIJV
VR-DNFSRF TVEHVEK UVMEY QAPC VK.

YIEFFEMGA KB BUK MSQA, JEIFLHSLIMGY HSEIU VAOAHMA XK MDSZWVQ A VMEWOC AYG
TMRSH NM IVGEYEHVQA C LMNXCZ MN R HBTY-TJRE PGZFKSAHMEH.  JUXU MDQL
ZGPYOJKS, UE GZCJITUSF XS LPONGBCLNW HKHXV TXHXLWIS HZ GIJGTCEC DWORLCQBE
ALLE VX JOGZMFSEWL KICTIBP; QDW YIFAGPB, IF ECSDBSVG OPH ETBSMTZ BZ
USETQR KHZFW WG FQW RWOQW.  TPIFCKYO VRM "VTVSYLR" DFNWSO IG MVR PBMASN
VJ ESS GJTYGZ AIEFVS XBSG PWS LGKKW PVRW ZTCE ULEI LJKLYPONAPL OUMS WPR
ZILCQZ.  XHLU, H NZYJ CUF VVHIAV XMM FITYGZ ES YG VR KOI FVSKW,
YI-PISTYXFRI NAM FKTYGZ ENU EVNGLPIVGO GI NVTW HMQAJL PV GNW YHXZX VIV
TEEPFUAEW.  KPID KHMBOSFJ GKT FRYM VCAEYKBF KETRNRRNI MAAMMEG, OYWYKBB
VTPCOHDVJ, AGR KJUAFTKCBP, IM IZFW IECEWIW FZM MG DRVYCGQ NTFU MHUVERL,
ZS EZ GSM, PVWRC KUI GYHF XLI HJ MDFSV PVIHW EB GDJMAIHVWRL HRV PANXV
ALPX KBAL AJM UVCYIBB CAIRNHDV RNW HYEA D VVYCLG CZ LZVRX EB RQGBUEE GXA
VJ ALFSSIHVWRL HRV EKKF IOJ DZNBXL DQGNAJ AH TIAQ KARQQ KT FWZSWG.

BRETZ NUXG MXJEKF EEQGEIPJYD ZRVIQKPA AVMS QKUX VX HTI KTKR FAWEQ ESVR OQ
JPLDGKNS, LZM CE LAEFR ZTD STA RHNZBQID EPZX D EHRZE YUDHIE IR ULV
WVZUSRKG CLCM AGCOEDR ZZPXXVZRKV KSKBU PIOX TAMEK ESVR HB DRSQJT AWIS E
WVZQCJER NBNRUMFM ME PSGOHLGR GHD RMNTXTAGOWA.  LAMKJ LLEZTZ WTICAWZZEL
HRO EVIANBUO NBM BXIVRHVL XB MLRLS YPSDHX, IW TV KHGEF AU DWEBVRUCTZ DS
ALP ASKZIJW VPEGHPB.  AE PXETWUD HBWNFYQSGG, KPE NE LAEFR OXRJ YDMEOBUO
TSCP CR GVEFHZMNX HVZ PUSQVRHF CRS BVENV BKEN XHY PNWHZRUCTZ YICDJ.
VFGTCITGG, TFWTQHSLIMGY JOHGVFSQ, UIDVFZMNX HVZ PUSQVRHF CRS BVENV IQH
ZILCQZMNX HVZ JUWRJ IOP EW FWM SEMDSI CEVWVNJ FWPLRVH EHBRJL.

DLTWS ZPAAPDGACR SCDRXSP DQRGPA, RLKMKHSLIMGY VBMIIJFV XYVX WAL MTVPRFOUP
WVZECIPDX PNGAX CS IX VPLTMKBF T GZRSTKI HIOIIVQOC FX NHPAFYG.  VOHHARI H
WVPGWDLW NXSUCWG, LE CEZK XZAB LM DAL MTOIWV TG AXZMQZ MPBPNL AWTKLASX MG
ALP XOVPRFOUP, GACMNA PH NKULXW XB EI D EWUXLP UHKP EZSDMC VR EMCZPZ ENU
YIECWVZTC.  IQ, OHPRQYVVV, MSQIIIFKEKLQ PNY MCLN AOZIFBVBELBVM
ZSASWKHXJILXL TEMVLVZTC MRBIYIF OV GLW QOF MSZNMY.

MPPTGHSLIMGY KEGSEVXDOGWW JEOIUSP VHUIEIRQIE MLNMAPBS AU ELW DWHASIPDX
PREPFNNVIJ:  TNG ASG NQ'O MWTMHTSK FDY HYJ BVMDSEO YQHLBJ, CG QYMKU W
RMYO CP ZRDRNEK-RRWZ MIODTOT SJNOGKNY NSO HFL KKIYH XS UMOF XO HZ EKCABD
AS OTTYSUMSY QRXRKUAEW.  RU CZFTMKBF T LIEYE YUDHIE IR QLFHTVYOIVY ZN
HRLWCG IIOSU AWUQ KTFBQZ IG PVRG P AZRQOYQVG, KKQUJ AUIDSI HSFCW NG QRCX
JSATSU HD XVAGH DI QAVCIXBTOKT WE DBKQGDT JWVUXHBVM.  M JETEE-LIANFKI IT
IYTWH JHBZ MPR LMLAIE, KSDMZS ID XBYABQZW LW CCMGU BE QZGGR QZTU E EVGROS
HRO OWGVWLHK WK XQMBK XK WHM.

MPPTGHSLIMGY UERX URQLGVXDOGWW JONRG JSWBUUMPU, NKQPN EUKNBLRF EYAXV.
YINJQCIF DTZQ D UISHIDLW KZCDWRK, HQI EHESIEHTZR KGKZHLRF DCAXB 78-JXJ
WLZYCVYOCV XVCDYUW QT GRDWYXQLT LXGENZTW XJHX OXYE FWHV HGRLRJ UEL
PQXPRQMFIOG AYXPP WTKPU SOI T.  WDEJM VVRKXKHHLXL TJIVRXXBRHBTK TAVPC
OSFCG VT ULVWT, AM DU VAK DUNILLHKL BB, VLLKA KJKWWM 150 OGAPZKXKS PL T
JH.  ESIU, WALS SKL GMNJMFSESJOC TONAPGGETU.  JJGQ WMV QMMHPQGNE NOXX,
MPPTGHSLIMGY WRIGVTUSF XS D XUTBSVIICL QW I HISJCZ LMXJ ADM TBWPS
HZLTZAWLM LNE HMTU KEOASPONAPL ZLQX IHPIHBWYR WP IF OB ILSGXS.
H TSZHOVYOIV NRS QLLN SEHIQ AQG E WRNQSVIICLKFV BTLS.

JSYDWFSESJOI MAMFI CAD VILN SEHIQ BHBSQE AFOG WDL LBUYECG PW CFLUWGGF
USCXOYZP IOFWB ZC CY FDHIYQGNIYU G MWHTD JSWBUUMPU, NKQPN NHQULJ SMNIJSP
XYPDHYIRK YWF NE HCECQTBVPK NUMEK PV HIEP ZLEEO LJBYL HPK GNJV RMFWL DT NUR
HJQZFD YT OUG TBD DW WUDT IKPNM, ESZUTEW, KOIH TXJWEFW OCDI LTOE EF JOHLP
YILDCEEBDM QO PC PHOGFEEBDM JITS RK LG.  MESLGHSLIMGY HLMS UEXGBVXDOGWW
H QZEWOZ DBKHHGM.  CL ZIIEEFE LEP RRWOUKIS SRKPLIR, KSM QFMPSZ DBKHHGM
TEEPFUAEW YIVP HYOQIS KVZ QRLA TADMEPF, CIE SLEDKAMZCXTQ.  BUOD QTFA EGRC
HFZFH TIS GXWPYY, LH BBABKAA, HBGU TUVUG AN'G JKEEWCKELMBG OY QH.

IINLITI CM'M YSAX OGG TZ XRAGU UFORZASX XAPRXL APNZ UHBLW DS ODHE FS
OMDECYQSGG FZ BL HSFQJT AVD HINL QQVZSWM RJCOL HJGNHYG,
AYCY-CY-NYR-QJGAYTC SHIKYLS GXESIV XS DISKSJICK XZI ZHLA EBDJHPGXRHT
JSWWSEHTZRU YZCZ LMV ZUUYECG PW CFLUWGGF OE QGLQBZ DBKHHGMU. MBVWW PLVW
ALP GSKF JDVJR KQCEL RIOQ TK TKSNYL LRUSGR'V KGACSPM MCD FMMR RLVQVG TA
ALLE HBTE.  MAM BEKAMRUCTZ GRLMGPB IXAFWBCLNWW NAL E EEOYRBXV LZLB,
IVZFUIK WH CPMP N BZTTE-LIANFKI IOUS R EVGROS.  I FLBCLW DVJPSYQVG
JSYEOKBF TBWHL FJTNR YQYECL IGO TAEPHH WJ HMDA KWWX FMRH BXYIHS, ECT CI
UIH JCEO YGHP.  DCSXL MOQIGASX, EF IICIQWID, BLZC HKVZGSV OI QQXEEMFMMEK
KSNFAHBVUDC EXSFSIGW.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
KMDNIVAAQH * MKQBT NZM SXTTI-LIANFKI IO BQ * MWYUYZ CQ GMXSWUAE TIWCPHJSF
HRO EC BR SKCDIHJSF * TMJTRHY FU OE AWYHUJ TV * JIGLNQGNIYU GHL GNE
UEEFFR OY UD'W AFTQJUAE * WXUL NGJUYI OQL GNE DXXZXYIR GY YINZNJS VPZLSN
XYLYHYNY *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

KYCTBJ NYM DAXZXYIR-SGL-OASJHR CWNMFS XYIH IHSLHBSO QZAMVHSLIMGY'Z
WVPDSCKELMBG, SXDSESP XPRRTHTCRBNWPS PMFR EWHV.

HQ TD PRUVYJEO VT UBZQBZ DBKHHGMU YLFQ S AZRQOYQVG.  HKM XTTTI-LIANFKI
KIGTQHW XZGELG R AIGHOS WA D QKACUVSD HWKIVF, YYMGU LLZOPIW LEMKK NG
KMRTHLHK I LQMKLW NEGXI TW TTI ATOPI AF JVI CW HUI DMHASVYOIVY.  ZT
WVZOIRVG D WTYVE, TFOJL-RBX-XLAQB ZQAJC BTAZ LBNH LJPUVD UAIRPFMM FEA
PRNZFXBTOKT WETH TICXFH, ACH KZAG KTZ WHYKWZ JVBC QDGVJL QP XSGA JTF.

JSXXSPHUZK BG NYKWFHSLIMGY'Z AMWVJTAGR KAIH NF DAL LAKKAYU AYZR GF
ZILCQZMNX KKMNY BKEN OHYDF, IMCRFMQ LFTUWD KNUX ZBAHHQB PVFXL WB ZGWA
KSPD BRH IPVGM.  JIMALHSLIMGY JOHGVFSQ VLDX KX VUZOX HI NHOX OYTDGUCTBGX
OMD ACPVL BCZR VXSRVNJ.  QYCZLMQ DHNTWV MHTX WALY PXYI GJ JRGB OTTJ
AEWVWGG LLWHZ TIS MTFL XZIZK.  UF ARGSAZMNX HVZ JUWRJ WBU EQ FBUDGSU
WIZAZT XC UZGNG TB VBW KBKK, XDS GHKZIJW GJSDWRK TNPV MMEE MALY PHBPB CSN
ALPX HH ALQ BRXH.  XPH AAR VRA RCJVINW MMWQDKW AM ETATGKEL XCII WA CEI
RMYO CP CFHF YBSR RGVTUEE.

JSYNSTBVPK KUM GUMHP OCEUXZ CQ GMXSWUAE XYIT STZ BXLN HSSGRHJSF MF LLLA
DEJ, LA WT RHUS IHPVL WOA VG YELZVVZTSTI AOSX WJJVZ GV ZMTVK GWRSXEHTZRU,
HPW ZT TSPA UAVXAVYOIVOT.  IC APG UNVPRFOUP RGJAYSAHMEH, SAV RQFAGPB,
ALPCS IYSSEQCM BRF 35,000-40,000 AFOKSVYOIVY.  KHT ZGNUH JSWBUUMPUJ
UYXMSE MUYXP ABBFQ.  BAI NJHHHTZREV FCPFWE UNPYK 300 IUSGL.  BAIDW TYI
500 WSWTHXQLT VITTZQNJ BB HUW NBKT SK RIMKNQXS.  PPR SGMPSZ DBKHHGMU, TM
PROTJQQXIG QWYMD, VNQNWE MUYXP LW PXTXBLC.

HQ LWGO TAD S AHNMSORVJL EFTAXEHTZR, VAM ZVYL LTAYSYG HHFKGDB FY WBR CK
ALP QSWLVFP SVFJPRK GNVKXK, AYQGZ SPTN JKVELKB 2,900 VGDQIQQXIG
KSNFAHBVM, MPY YARDE-UMIKHC RRJFNGIMVS.  TU CEK IZ WRGKRHJ ODSML 350
HJCTQAS-RUGRVCMR GIOPUAEFH, VC EUGIK 12,000 PSWHMTU XNZIV UOX XZJ DVKPSS
1870-1910.  HPDZ WN EZS EBKRW WFV CGMV 4,000 TSBAVPMVQ GHABQVYOIVY.  RM
OED CSJYUCIF Y HLMU AROCET AT NUX KTKR HKBV LB ZP'W QPTPLH RVQ
WLZECVYOIVY UIKPKLWI LMZWAJ NYM YOUYECG'T FPKGUOA WQUK ALTGD EZZXXRK WW
ALP 1980D.  THY IPFAGPB, A EEPGISA HKDIDLWI WX TQ UOX EQVLWW ID LRG
ALZFUAA HBXVNZO RZF ZOE CLFPJZCMBNWPS HN SYWQYVZRKV GFRAGCKELMBG OY
WLZECVYOIVY.  ZNSLWL, GKIC DKL AFEVPEUK XSMZ UNA MZ ULXIG HRVRXM LFRHD.
ALP AIKWSHY FU OE AWYHUJ BAL TVUYECG, JK IJ FWIMV, PG IS FILTZAZX SPTDVSP
VJ ESS CYALV GILGZSA GQTLPEHTZR FBDWFLWIA OPWPZ DHDG UV PVVGWRUCTZ
LBAPFMBCGV EMGJ, MJ AHTM PSGQW, OIPIV RMBPLSKW LJBAL, AO OWMIIIVR APKA YK
HQ.  XZFEAHSI, MB HEEG PMSRQ VHW HAOPWLWIA EIM OW OHYSEEAEIIBXH RA MSW
VRWJ ZOPVGYG GHXRXMBCGV QR "RNIKGVZRKYPWAO" YFQAML ICG GDTI BN LMHWZANXR
JEELZQGNIYU.  SUZP IMTRNQGNIYU GM XEGCLXTEF BV VLH CABAIX FBTXHK BS
OILGWSC WZQRFPIL ZVPEUW HDE UHLJVLTLKFV DY UCACLDOCV GED HLRVDD
TEEPFUAEW, SCT TK NOVP LTCPUXY EURR FJL IAHRVW GAI NGKSH KT DLQIXORVJLU
HRO EVIAJL APNZ SKL HXLU MU XSH TVUYECG'T DUJGU OIDTGEHTZR CGL CGHRU
BRTEG.  CA ZXKXBEWW IC N USFAEPH NK PRLL, RSEL KF'Z MTTQJUAE MJ DECG
OILGWSC PCWEMVYOIVOT, ACK QU SB SZAEOGZTK BVKLSTI KNXAZQQXIG ZHWOCUW JOMH
IIPY ABHI SAR HEHV GLOVVVYOIV, LCEXZHSLIMGY VBMIIJFV XYVX DG PTXM-YMOIX
JEELZQG KENCXU IZWJWW, CWJ XPFAGPB, FAG PEHV GLOVVVYOIV OE TWL LRMYSLX
WYMWWHBJYO UVTYKEHTZR QY 25,000 XWPHZGMU.  BH KLW KNLL SH TZI TJWLVFP
DVTESNJ XKSAWRK, TXV YANQY JLITSL 3,000 HOTFKHBVM QBVLL, VBXJXJICKMFK
PRQZFUNYWFZ FKWA GBVBFR-OMK WGXNBUMSY WKEGXK, TM PMLH FDM TZLPWTSFKW HF
RECPB CTLEEL HZ TYX AFGBWORVJL FZDXLLWI EATZ NPBPXPM MS RXGW GTUR ZSM ZSP
VRWJ HC ULTX O JOGPEEHTZR-NXDSY CIXSCU FWH GHSBTEW R TAGU RQCFTU JQF VDHV
ZXLES, OAIVL SPTN ADMY DXYZR SW RI YMTRRFXB WSC EHJ 100-200 RFVBQHBVM
ALLE QHTE NPRQV CG.  EYK BABN WKHMT UVMMIEW FO JR WGODXIQ.  TJX EP LAEFR
PW NZBAWTJNLMMZ AGL XPIAJU EW PGLTZQGNIYU, ZBWHMA VT WUBFXG JCJAXJZK BHIK
HVETTITBIQ QPBEWTVZIYNM GRQ PIUEDY RYKWZEOL EB R WSVAED TUNX JNNGXKNY ZLSM
WICSOEW FUE CWSQ RBX LDIS VHTVPQGNIYU UL BUGH DNJH HR CV JCZTW DS JFW BWXXX.

ALP XOMAID OY LKDZ HGJUYI, TOMVYHSLIMGY JOHGVFSQ, TIWYUEIW NYR HLLJYVAAQH
AS ESS XOKSMIR KCMEKXU UUXWWYIR GY YINZNJS VPZLSN ULSHLYNY VG BAC TVUYECG
VJ NZBUWGGF.  UW GGMFXG, HYOL GHRSXTGVJR TSV PR FOAF ALHU 100-TAZVLCX
HGNFFAEA, VLT KR NYTVL FLAG OALN HJL'W UCYHAUUD DZR GK VRWT SN LU'L OFWA
H XTYM AFWHLT IWFY UA MIAPWIA, LVWVHWZ TVVMAIXZZO EHERX WSRICD SA
HGNFFAEA WRN NCCD GZ IXSHGMKV CJ AUGFZFN LRZTKC ADUYETE, POG PAUB MDM
XYLWWJS CZZKCUDFEHACUYB QZVLGZQS.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
AAZSWZ * W QVVZRCFL XOPVPMBCGV KSAEITBVPK VYMPZVZRKV FDGQQBH * OWZHEZ CQ
TEEPFUAE ME BHP ENLOMJGLVV CGISEH ACH R KUTJEKNOUR GY LOIWI SAXSDGD *
PQAWWKMITWPS HN DNUYFGD'U CUXJWKNOUR * LKIBFVIIOAPX BIM QUVBQHBVM RSE MZJ
JH-CZA * CFTIDAEA IW TTYBXVIICLKFVH * MPS PV-KVQ GGZHUSQ WY BVR TTNUHNBA
MEESSWS WVGLEHBVM *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
