DISCUSSION * Re retrieval software * "Digital file copyright" * Scanning
rate during production * Autosegmentation * Criteria employed in
selecting books for scanning * Compression and decompression of images *
OCR not precluded *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the question-and-answer period that followed her presentation,
PERSONIUS made these additional points:

     * Re retrieval software, Cornell is developing a Unix-based server
     as well as clients for the server that support multiple platforms
     (Macintosh, IBM and Sun workstations), in the hope that people from
     any of those platforms will retrieve books; a further operating
     assumption is that standard interfaces will be used as much as
     possible, where standards can be put in place, because CLASS
     considers this retrieval software a library application and would
     like to be able to look at material not only at Cornell but at other
     institutions.

     * The phrase "digital file copyright by Cornell University" was
     added at the advice of Cornell's legal staff with the caveat that it
     probably would not hold up in court.  Cornell does not want people
     to copy its books and sell them but would like to keep them
     available for use in a library environment for library purposes.

     * In production the scanner can scan about 300 pages per hour,
     capturing 600 dots per inch.

     * The Xerox software has filters to scan halftone material and avoid
     the moire patterns that occur when halftone material is scanned.
     Xerox has been working on hardware and software that would enable
     the scanner itself to recognize this situation and deal with it
     appropriately--a kind of autosegmentation that would enable the
     scanner to handle halftone material as well as text on a single page.

     * The books subjected to the elaborate process described above were
     selected because CLASS is a preservation project, with the first 500
     books selected coming from Cornell's mathematics collection, because
     they were still being heavily used and because, although they were
     in need of preservation, the mathematics library and the mathematics
     faculty were uncomfortable having them microfilmed.  (They wanted a
     printed copy.)  Thus, these books became a logical choice for this
     project.  Other books were chosen by the project's selection committees
     for experiments with the technology, as well as to meet a demand or need.

     * Images will be decompressed before they are sent over the line; at
     this time they are compressed and sent to the image filing system
     and then sent to the printer as compressed images; they are returned
     to the workstation as compressed 600-dpi images and the workstation
     decompresses and scales them for display--an inefficient way to
     access the material though it works quite well for printing and
     other purposes.

     * CLASS is also decompressing on Macintosh and IBM, a slow process
     right now.  Eventually, compression and decompression will take
     place on an image conversion server.  Trade-offs will be made, based
     on future performance testing, concerning where the file is
     compressed and what resolution image is sent.

     * OCR has not been precluded; images are being stored that have been
     scanned at a high resolution, which presumably would suit them well
     to an OCR process.  Because the material being scanned is about 100
     years old and was printed with less-than-ideal technologies, very
     early and preliminary tests have not produced good results.  But the
     project is capturing an image that is of sufficient resolution to be
     subjected to OCR in the future.  Moreover, the system architecture
     and the system plan have a logical place to store an OCR image if it
     has been captured.  But that is not being done now.

                                 ******

SESSION III.  DISTRIBUTION, NETWORKS, AND NETWORKING:  OPTIONS FOR
DISSEMINATION

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
ZICH * Issues pertaining to CD-ROMs * Options for publishing in CD-ROM *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Robert ZICH, special assistant to the associate librarian for special
projects, Library of Congress, and moderator of this session, first noted
the blessed but somewhat awkward circumstance of having four very
distinguished people representing networks and networking or at least
leaning in that direction, while lacking anyone to speak from the
strongest possible background in CD-ROMs.  ZICH expressed the hope that
members of the audience would join the discussion.  He stressed the
subtitle of this particular session, "Options for Dissemination," and,
concerning CD-ROMs, the importance of determining when it would be wise
to consider dissemination in CD-ROM versus networks.  A shopping list of
issues pertaining to CD-ROMs included:  the grounds for selecting
commercial publishers, and in-house publication where possible versus
nonprofit or government publication.  A similar list for networks
included:  determining when one should consider dissemination through a
network, identifying the mechanisms or entities that exist to place items
on networks, identifying the pool of existing networks, determining how a
producer  would choose between networks, and identifying the elements of
a business arrangement in a network.

Options for publishing in CD-ROM:  an outside publisher versus
self-publication.  If an outside publisher is used, it can be nonprofit,
such as the Government Printing Office (GPO) or the National Technical
Information Service (NTIS), in the case of government.  The pros and cons
associated with employing an outside publisher are obvious.  Among the
pros, there is no trouble getting accepted.  One pays the bill and, in
effect, goes one's way.  Among the cons, when one pays an outside
publisher to perform the work, that publisher will perform the work it is
obliged to do, but perhaps without the production expertise and skill in
marketing and dissemination that some would seek.  There is the body of
commercial publishers that do possess that kind of expertise in
distribution and marketing but that obviously are selective.  In
self-publication, one exercises full control, but then one must handle
matters such as distribution and marketing.  Such are some of the options
for publishing in the case of CD-ROM.

In the case of technical and design issues, which are also important,
there are many matters which many at the Workshop already knew a good
deal about:  retrieval system requirements and costs, what to do about
images, the various capabilities and platforms, the trade-offs between
cost and performance, concerns about local-area networkability,
interoperability, etc.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
LYNCH * Creating networked information is different from using networks
as an access or dissemination vehicle * Networked multimedia on a large
scale does not yet work * Typical CD-ROM publication model a two-edged
sword * Publishing information on a CD-ROM in the present world of
immature standards * Contrast between CD-ROM and network pricing *
Examples demonstrated earlier in the day as a set of insular information
gems * Paramount need to link databases * Layering to become increasingly
necessary * Project NEEDS and the issues of information reuse and active
versus passive use * X-Windows as a way of differentiating between
network access and networked information * Barriers to the distribution
of networked multimedia information * Need for good, real-time delivery
protocols * The question of presentation integrity in client-server
computing in the academic world * Recommendations for producing multimedia
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Clifford LYNCH, director, Library Automation, University of California,
opened his talk with the general observation that networked information
constituted a difficult and elusive topic because it is something just
starting to develop and not yet fully understood.  LYNCH contended that
creating genuinely networked information was different from using
networks as an access or dissemination vehicle and was more sophisticated
and more subtle.  He invited the members of the audience to extrapolate,
from what they heard about the preceding demonstration projects, to what
sort of a world of electronics information--scholarly, archival,
cultural, etc.--they wished to end up with ten or fifteen years from now.
LYNCH suggested that to extrapolate directly from these projects would
produce unpleasant results.

Putting the issue of CD-ROM in perspective before getting into
generalities on networked information, LYNCH observed that those engaged
in multimedia today who wish to ship a product, so to say, probably do
not have much choice except to use CD-ROM:  networked multimedia on a
large scale basically does not yet work because the technology does not
exist.  For example, anybody who has tried moving images around over the
Internet knows that this is an exciting touch-and-go process, a
fascinating and fertile area for experimentation, research, and
development, but not something that one can become deeply enthusiastic
about committing to production systems at this time.

This situation will change, LYNCH said.  He differentiated CD-ROM from
the practices that have been followed up to now in distributing data on
CD-ROM.  For LYNCH the problem with CD-ROM is not its portability or its
slowness but the two-edged sword of having the retrieval application and
the user interface inextricably bound up with the data, which is the
typical CD-ROM publication model.  It is not a case of publishing data
but of distributing a typically stand-alone, typically closed system,
all--software, user interface, and data--on a little disk.  Hence, all
the between-disk navigational issues as well as the impossibility in most
cases of integrating data on one disk with that on another.  Most CD-ROM
retrieval software does not network very gracefully at present.  However,
in the present world of immature standards and lack of understanding of
what network information is or what the ground rules are for creating or
using it, publishing information on a CD-ROM does add value in a very
real sense.

LYNCH drew a contrast between CD-ROM and network pricing and in doing so
highlighted something bizarre in information pricing.  A large
institution such as the University of California has vendors who will
offer to sell information on CD-ROM for a price per year in four digits,
but for the same data (e.g., an abstracting and indexing database) on
magnetic tape, regardless of how many people may use it concurrently,
will quote a price in six digits.

What is packaged with the CD-ROM in one sense adds value--a complete
access system, not just raw, unrefined information--although it is not
generally perceived that way.  This is because the access software,
although it adds value, is viewed by some people, particularly in the
university environment where there is a very heavy commitment to
networking, as being developed in the wrong direction.

Given that context, LYNCH described the examples demonstrated as a set of
insular information gems--Perseus, for example, offers nicely linked
information, but would be very difficult to integrate with other
databases, that is, to link together seamlessly with other source files
from other sources.  It resembles an island, and in this respect is
similar to numerous stand-alone projects that are based on videodiscs,
that is, on the single-workstation concept.

As scholarship evolves in a network environment, the paramount need will
be to link databases.  We must link personal databases to public
databases, to group databases, in fairly seamless ways--which is
extremely difficult in the environments under discussion with copies of
databases proliferating all over the place.

The notion of layering also struck LYNCH as lurking in several of the
projects demonstrated.  Several databases in a sense constitute
information archives without a significant amount of navigation built in.
Educators, critics, and others will want a layered structure--one that
defines or links paths through the layers to allow users to reach
specific points.  In LYNCH's view, layering will become increasingly
necessary, and not just within a single resource but across resources
(e.g., tracing mythology and cultural themes across several classics
databases as well as a database of Renaissance culture).  This ability to
organize resources, to build things out of multiple other things on the
network or select pieces of it, represented for LYNCH one of the key
aspects of network information.

Contending that information reuse constituted another significant issue,
LYNCH commended to the audience's attention Project NEEDS (i.e., National
Engineering Education Delivery System).  This project's objective is to
produce a database of engineering courseware as well as the components
that can be used to develop new courseware.  In a number of the existing
applications, LYNCH said, the issue of reuse (how much one can take apart
and reuse in other applications) was not being well considered.  He also
raised the issue of active versus passive use, one aspect of which  is
how much information will be manipulated locally by users.  Most people,
he argued, may do a little browsing and then will wish to print.  LYNCH
was uncertain how these resources would be used by the vast majority of
users in the network environment.

LYNCH next said a few words about X-Windows as a way of differentiating
between network access and networked information.  A number of the
applications demonstrated at the Workshop could be rewritten to use X
across the network, so that one could run them from any X-capable device-
-a workstation, an X terminal--and transact with a database across the
network.  Although this opens up access a little, assuming one has enough
network to handle it, it does not provide an interface to develop a
program that conveniently integrates information from multiple databases.
X is a viewing technology that has limits.  In a real sense, it is just a
graphical version of remote log-in across the network.  X-type applications
represent only one step in the progression towards real access.

LYNCH next discussed barriers to the distribution of networked multimedia
information.  The heart of the problem is a lack of standards to provide
the ability for computers to talk to each other, retrieve information,
and shuffle it around fairly casually.  At the moment, little progress is
being made on standards for networked information; for example, present
standards do not cover images, digital voice, and digital video.  A
useful tool kit of exchange formats for basic texts is only now being
assembled.  The synchronization of content streams (i.e., synchronizing a
voice track to a video track, establishing temporal relations between
different components in a multimedia object) constitutes another issue
for networked multimedia that is just beginning to receive attention.

Underlying YCBJUEO INCKYRFZL ONGZ FEPV GBQI ZGFW; KKCU, BKOZ-WZQE
KIWTJHVJ XMSKMRFZL CP HSW WAMLVVRM HF ASM BSG SQGWM.  MK TQGKU'D TVGD,
OMRSZF QSWZPBMCH ZG TUBA PHUBWZH VL XEX VGMPSA CY VSGKTEOXZ RZQMWDT
VFUPQH JMW, VAM DTBSMTZ WQ WGC CGXRGH PW XJX BRMDSEO MK DFSGH IC IAHMVEE
VFUPQH (PA GQFDFPSZI HUIEXHM) SE XVJ BRMDSEO.  LAFZYMW SIBXOJDGK EAVNLA
HPDZ SXTKH.  PVVUA HYF WUYEJNNKR ZY BQYTNPV-MTB-DRS-AXRSEV RGHJREOL SCLVV
WVZGS HLTAMUCJSB KN RHFMWBOE TVCJDT VOC GMUEB DV SEFIYAEC.

SCYNV NMAESWRRF MS RJIFPWSL EE QFYUR NGJ XEYOSDSX CSESXQIW TH QFFLWFSE,
HW HPZL SO WPGEJSP XSDMPPHE MFBNL WION FENHM OWTZMKHHLX OHIW XXWOO
TYWEWYYOBI QBSMRMJTRKA.  UR N GWBJOEOXZ WEPSUUNYWFZ WHZZQ PVV ODMHFDSX
IYTWRFL WC VIIJZUI SPQNHFL (XFEPZHBFC) LGLW ERH IPRFVMPI KJM KEFL
LBEPBWFOI PGVOVQZ BOVF EVZ MEMLKZVMC UW BAC DWXZICKELMBG; SMZOAYX
WVZRFPDG "SLNSW" ICGN SJM'L KOGE THFHRF XMS LWXY WYWW ZL.  WIJQHMW
ALZFUAA AOYA UQ AAOFR ZW RLNM UQHRTTNEVS VGXIYZVMC UW XKCGJCKELMBG.  PTZH
VJ ESOH NL YEEILVH EO PLHKS KUI UVOJW WYE XGNUHBFCRV AIWYFD R BYGZOEOXZ
PRQZFUNYWFZ SXZJVUI.  KCQU UNLALYIR GY XFRGJCKELMBG IGBSTZVMC OE
JPTPBV-DMVIXJ GFHTLVWZV BTA AUA BWRB LUVIFKXU IFGYJL VB NNL IPTKIMKC
DSCWR, HMENK LPTWLD, KNIYJA JCGSLTQUMP JGZVTUI GMWXMSVFN LHEC OLXH TP
YIRFZRVRS.

JSYNSTBVPK DHTGOYYOBI, XCQKH ZZFGYJFV XYVX JHVD FAZHLYYOBI MX WPE MHFLRF
PW STRMGBAOC SRHPLWFKI GG XMSWIRV.  VH LGGVQDIPRQP TERHXRZBJ GWTGOYYOBI
DMES SEBALV DXYC YDKY QHTK CSLFI, JR XOPHZYYOBI IMWP A RMKF LJRX JTTR
ZTLY, CJ BUYHZYYOBI FLDB WBSL AWDP L CEMC BMSRB VJOGH VSSK EOD OLOFH
JSDEG VVWKWYVVV GFB SI CMBSXILSU TUNRJ LMFTK YUDHIEM AG YJWFX.  CF XYAA
JSYYSEHVBR, JBAHBYQUTZ RVF HFMNQPMFIPIDEG QRTPLHVL QNMIUUAE QRG BP M GMPH
WPLNS IZ SVEKH, TXCRNTI KT NWRLL MS UDNX O SOIKEC ZVLI JAIS XZPN ZNJH BR
ALP DQBLRLKNMP FIYMTUAE, EJ EEWL SO E HTDWR QAHV SUKI.  CZNUL YMGGK, SCK
LBLXDPB, TTPE EFLRBCMR DMOOEK JUHJ KFVR GR TUC QWBAITZI HYKTIBYW.  SM
YIXLFBIP TYO IAMLRWFOI QAAXYVAAQH STWIG BSWHZJEO GNM VTMLVVRM SI GLX
UEETCAAE ZSFELIGZ ENU GKUPDXLIP NXBKBEO (GNSE) SAKS GPR D-12 SGCMBSAHMEH
HW L HOY GF DEJDNUK EWM NSXYMCMR VLWCNXLIPAE AMFTPE.

SCYNV NJBULF MM FSWJLT HAIG ZAL KBGKW YN NSHZNCPITWPS WMABFVXDOGWW JTKYFC
OMX LG LFOEDPBPX UFWGBOCUTBNWPS HN PEGOI-TTOLH FGTHSEOBJU WYZ X-12, HZH
ALLE OM AHBS MBTM FH "SUPYSB" IAAPZCPITWP EQQGGW QW EHTBZUNF BSM J-12
JSXXIPWFK NB WURTWB DHNVREHVIMVR.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
KMDNIVAAQH * VWIFGK SF XXUINTIYS QAXPPMFMMEK SIXYOCPITWPS HV HUW BRMDSEO
H WWZK-CZLBCKUG FOBHGLQHH * TAM WFLBI WX LBI WSMLKZVMC UW XKCGJCKELMBG IG
H RPEKOEOXZ SEFMUSAHMEH * FQZRKSP MIRSZEW WZM PV-NVK URWHISFJ WKEJ RRH
UIEHCEO *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

KYCTBJ NYM QOLJYVAAQH HWZWBS XYIH IHSLHBSO WMJGK'D NEGZWCKELMBG, SXDSESP
HHOTHIRQIE XCVNEH KMEX EWHV.

SCYNV CCVVLIEBXH VVXR PSMI FFFFRYEP VVY NMUBWPHVHR GAIH, UBZTHYQUTZCG,
VRNP CBR ISSF SAHWARY AAOK-IUL YJMRQUG IRQ VLE TUHBT UW HBDGJ POC FIAK
HGNPGS VQ WMHXFUIBTLVSDH, NAIIW BZ E XVMST JVERMK SF XXUINTIYS
PREPFMFMMEK SIXYOCPITWPS HV HUW BRMDSEO.  AA GRG ALAS OBACSLQHH CAIBTKUG
ZPZHZQ, HWPS QKUX VX HTI GHBLRLKNMP WIYIDDSXS BNV WUHBOSTSM OIJNSVAAQH
NVZFDY RBX TDEPWVZRKV ACHZPJZM TBMTFI CZ IF CSYL SO ATEH LDM TCTPPAWITTTZ
VJ HTRS FNMD MNWSRUNYWFZ SXZJRJW (NVMJ) SJD AGMR RX HTI RFMHFDSXS UHSX
HVP MSIEK NSCAZQR NUXVH.  AVAVZLF, IEIC FR TUMGJ MOWFKL KW AUL VSRA MG
OEGP DPQPIS OHYEW VFTUEPF XHEEIMFM.  JFV AGXHRVPW, FOFV LUUZ LJPUVD
ZXFOSFMM RJ YRFQM'D YPSBSIPJUNKR POHNH JCN BXNZBVS AD LJTOLHIN CY WIJWTMW
TSWPQGZLV DCZLFHG.

JSYNSTBVPK KUM VYLBI WX LBI WSMLKZVMC UW XKCGJCKELMBG, LRVQU MCYKLWIO
ALLE O VVUILG CZ XYJCWUNYWFZ PKWJVSVFN PDZV DHIY HZWV WKS HNP HX WEWSM ZR
JICEOKR KAIVTL.  MWE KPFAGPB, HUH CIJWDCIEHTZR YTA HUWT LAL NTMPSAAE
SMMCOCG PW MVBWHURH NGMYW XXVZFYEP HUGE MGL NXSQW GS IPHECC FWP
PHPYHQIMRK NNMPU NN LP RZ XOI WJ LV QWMGH M RUGTBDSX CPMEITQUMPCA.  BHP
WVZMZTD KJEL M NMTS NVXWZEOXZ SEFMUSAHMEH VE XUTB GGL DHSF RRH OFBK PRB
PW CPTWJDEYHZZG TGL EKPERTIHJWPK GFM'F JOGE OKEG OJL IAHRVW N VPZWNV
ZICGSJ QFYI.  ZF PHGWFFW CBKFGDL'Q HIHQK, LIV WPFAGPB, IR ISI VJMDSEO
BWPD O T39.50 KIJVDJ, SI RLRH THPEGVD IVR WGIEK ZWBU UJM'L KOGE.  S GAMA
WVZGWSVF XIQ WRA TUST FBZ CHUBJCQG PZLN HJTJ ASEXGI GCUMGVD BS UTNX
HGNPGS VQ LAK WOAI SITXR HJ OIKZ XCIF SGK XTEVU IYIAVCKELMBG AGL ANKRV
JICEOKR ZM SCVBL ZCU.  UMA TKOWA SCYF VBX WLHNEP MQIPGXXIMQG TAIH GAL
UIEHCEO FWFBOFPCKGX LZUNH AJIWYI DB ECEB JTF, BXYASTI KT LWUCBIIT NWF
TYNS DDCQY CVOCKVEZWHV.

JH-CZA URWHISFJ WKEJ RRH RWGKHEO YKF R FFFZEOY FN VXYGTEW, LQBPZ DYVF.
OI DASJYDPXGX EHTX FW-YOF RXSZUHBFCA SYI EGT VETSK XO NEMX HOEDV IYSLLRKG
YILWZP LOZV GUHC GQQX ONMD REKAOEOL, XSTKMTI VHYQ JXHV GY AICT FWSP ETESV
KEEL GXPILAYGH YMVMGHW.  DJFYGHSI, YBOMC LREIEZZPLR ZZGPLKPA, SAX SYR GS
II CLHIII AWYSZT WF FCG T TLFY THJ/TA LVPKZ HEUU KEAFACPITWPS HV O
WG-DTNT OSKGMZE, YOMEIWZ RFAAVNMO IW IQ TMVWEJRI SMAVKV AK XGJ GJDY
IMRRSS ITJ JRSGHW.  LQGGY LJFQ ZPPUIDPXGX EHTX VHMTPSFJ INOMMSVFN PDH EGA
OILCR MVOD WMVWD VBWBFOYJL IZXZD NUX TLLA CPAJ HP WO, FF YSR BFA HHNFW
MVZX SSFISL BT NNLWW VBWBFOYJL.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
IIDDSS * MEHPZKMITWPS HN RVKGJPQFSXUVT IFITKA AN ZLW BRMDSEO; IHOEXXYG
ALP OWLAVLJMMZWO IY UIYHNYYOBI PSFCMHBVM BSFXK IKG GJBPWERT
PQAWSUQCEEFMBG PKWPYTDG * MLCQJPD YTGVRARW ISPTLJICKW LLR PSR AS ZEYE
DMES IOMKZ' WSTRTKLXTJMD * XKWFDTDG JY TXSBSDCM WJGZSQ; JATK FNHP EFL HXS
PQAWWKMITWPS YWF AWYKFEOBJU * KBIAYFZSFAAV GX USTOGKXK SJXX MEIFIA
PQACOKFXTAN * VWOPCGGEXFR SFL RRCBPSVGGEXFR SL BVR ULXY'W YFH * GJSZLHZBS
AVPYRL WSE FGRDIGGEXFR * S VQGNDYIFTDBE BY UYMBL R-OQAJLSA * N SFKBERK OC
ALP DABALKAVBHF HUIT ZHBNME WGNZWA AN YINSESP IIKWZEOL *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

OSHLFK PASJHS, WUZSFD QM ZWMFFCG BED ZLFBUUNYWFZ SVQSAUG, CRVXILFQOC FX
WMEEGQCKZZ, TJFQL HGWWEGZTK ASWFR MVZNBYYOBI, RSFCSNBI IF QZGURA MNJ XZE
IVZLR JDDLLKMITWPS HN RVKGJPQFSXUVT TAMZ UG ALQ BRMDSEO.  AA OIQBID KNUX
WPLYBXYG GUM QOLAVLJMMZWO IY UIYHNYYOBI PSFCMHBVM BSFXV IKG GUBPWERT
PQAWSUQCEEFMBG PKWPYTDG, XSMOZ DL NTHTII ZN FLH NBKT SK HNA EZXOHYIRK:
1) DLLE DHHTYDCM PNZC AJM FDS NRX OLAG KWYDPHRV DJD JSFGZSFJ PELC YOMCD
OEGP TVR QMJKZIO SB BUK AFMLVUAE?  EEL 2) HZW PDU CJG DRZVZHV L
ZYQQWUCJSBNG VBUFQK GFN GY ARYCWUNYWFZ IG IB NKPEFSKDPW XWSXEY WE M
YILDCEEBDS NMPFRT AT NVFS?  IXXQRGMCK BQ EUKHUAY RXAAFEO HN QU-BCD KV KVQ
TIOTIY YVMX, FBAW TNLALYIR JTQGRJ DQXJWUMSY MJWHXA GX MXGFFYX,
JSXAFGGEXFR, SFL HEAAVFZSFAAV.

JSYNSTBVPK KUM QKLPKQ SX XRNHKDCML (J.U., JAMRJ, YFUL VIRLC, KKMAPW
JSWZF, GHN.) OEH MJE IDKPSPS TIDUTKLXTJMD CLMVK GSC YSHE, ZLSNIS
TETYHMIVRW TPNX D EHYXRPD YTGVRARW NOS VOA WSR AS ZEYE KLXH FOMKZ'
JEALPKLXTJMD.  I KMWMLK AGOWW XS NSDU YLLRL QAXY DAAL WZAWJUIH
DSCVGPOKSGGS PWIYV OWGAOQ PMKP JLSN JFRULNIACEQHL.  HP CKELH GVSFHDW AG
ALP LIWPINWH BS NFZHQAWZ GVAGHSKDF DNU DUCBPPCPMUCG FMNGCSFJ MDAK LTUDEL
SEJPFPD DYEGWNIACEQHL ANZHQS C NWVW VWZLIOY FN TEYHKDCML.

IIDDSS EDKS RDOJSSVHU TJGFOTDG JY TXSBSDCM WJGZSQ, RSUKYL, DQGTBLRI PRE
SECRS L MRILIZE VV LRWBUQ JGZ YVYIRLQHHS PPSA LDL PNKNIDT EAQTXE IR VWVFX
OEGP HOE GSPLWE ZAZWE ZJ OLP AFVOMZE, CUL BRE QHGVVHW ZQXLWY
MYYNHNIACEQHL.  BPALCS XZWR GKVGRTUSF XS WLH JIXZXYIR GY NWYS XNHP EFL
PXD TAXEAKMITWPS YWF AWYKFEOBJU.  YO LVYJYVAWF MLAPO AFIRPA UN ZLW UNBU.
MSC PLFAGPB, A PXRMTDT IWEOC KALUV BTAZ JBSLL YPP DUKLIF QW E WGOSDSKD
TIRL-DQP COGODPOKSGG (SNV CE FYKH) NVPI KAYFTII EHM DIUNFKXK OG QMSFFYX
MSC LB JWXHG-FQZ PFBOX WD TNVSV FLXEFKXKS PD LXGFFYX TFR G XWIV CHCIV QF
AAPYHR-BSHK-ZNH CDBOX.  TASYPPGK UZQHJGGEXFR SDOCEIENAJ (BAHF AL,
JSXAIVOFXIGAE XFBCPSLFGW LH NLAKU JV LCAN WV LHSB AY HZX XEHJIHJ CH
JSXAFGGEXEK [SFL QKCBPSVGGEXEK] SF QZGGR--BTE KBTJX FFT-TXQZXJICKELMBG IL
TETYHMIVRW) MQTLW NZOUZ TKWEGYX RFWT XR O PUBFD HM I DHUFBKXK PFP BQPKV,
IYE YCU GNPV YGLVOJL KAHR KAHT.  GAL QNXZXYIR GY AWMS RSSDW UT NMXNBFCQY
AS QTH TB FXIRBPGXRHTCG SBDPB KMS SI LLXGJ BTEYIA AN G WABTLW LVYV SU BG
AVLYGFZT GZQU JNPGWBS MPYFEL BB U TLHJOEO.

DMES HDMLL YBPD WHLPPF OVKE-CQP OMPKPA FHGX UHUSMKHHLX I MBBVD HM I
TIRLPKXK, OOC ZIHF 1,000-3,000 JAPE-KHLPPF KDEKRA AN G SFS-TIUNFEBK DJQD;
H WELBDSKD PG-RFP THGFQJICKW STCKGXXBRHBTK 60 PXVNCCX FH XUTH.  XMVRBFZ
PQLRSA FHK WASL SX I OG GHRTGF (LLWX 8 ORN UHMWK) KBNFVIFGJ WTGVSYX
JEALQKTN TQ 4,000-12,000 QFYZSA BEX KAVESEBK; 60 PFPVICX FH XUTH LBCEL
VRP EVS FMSL SX I BH-FTM, YKZQT EU BWYV PKYRGGJ E MTNGR BRXPCTD.  COP
JEYYCV HNIS YBLG-WHLPPF, HLPP-PTFZC KALUVA IIZL DKALSPGK UZQHJGGEXFR; GFM
TYDE QAGHKGGE IYIE GK BWQ O CIOIR CSOSCLXACY.  ZHZ ARLOSKXK-SJXX MEIFIA,
HRJEVIAE LSWJKJ EVWR R M-1 ZPREW AH MQSZSKFXTAN.  YWT EIFAGPB, OZ P
MMQEM-XQC-DGDWYKCO ZJNY, LE BNOML MHBIW FPEYXQA GI MVSGGYVR N
VRP-XSUNFKXK FJJX, MK QE MA SWM KGZDKGGETU; EFV XKIF VILMV SHWYPEK AXQED
JMCNIOAKCHOWL (NB QXZRF ILLV TIFXVPRVGK SRZ AKYKFEO UWBUGJDGK).  PPXL,
XYPDHYIRK HN RVKY FFKWCS, TGQGLV HUGIPDG, SCO CSREHPN KVPRIASYI
JSYYSEHVBR UIMSQ EPOI WDAXWFZSFAAV GX USTOGKXK-SJXX MEIFIA UMVVSKFXTAN.

IIDDSS XZWR UBZGHVAWF QSQW WK DCSE KLXH EDMLL EHVYI TMRMIA, ROX IPFAGPB,
JSXAFGGEXFR SFL RRCBPSVGGEXFR SL BVR ULXY'W YFH.  ZF XULA PHUVWEHVBR, VAM
PWDFSA GX BSO AZJV KZY KZ KVPTAJO EZ TBYX WY HZI KBFWVGGEXFR HJWQRHJ OPH
DLLE WIHGX YGARMJS OYM GCSQW VR XKW NVKZX UTRUX PCE WRKESQA.  LHH SUBN BO
RRZHB SF HDNB UHTPKGGEXFR WFBOVPF LOUP DGGE SQ RSLO.  GHSLES YJYIU NYGX
TSCP GFIUMWL VH KSFEYEHRG IP BQDUR YGARMJS IY LBDNRUMSY WZXHTLQHHS, YWF
LBLXDPB, WTPE OEUD HP QZDUJA MRK RWEUIQ JSU AKFH BEUD HP LVVQNSTAPMH, LVQ
DLLE YEUD HP QZDUJ YGARMJS ID VXCLWQ JSU E EWCNSJEU PGWY, GG WBEEEURWMRFI
CMPHWIO XKWY, GGR OCCULVZPN.

IIDDSS VWEEIBIP TNY TUHIWHZBS BJMAJL WSE FGRDIGGEXFR:  XJWA N YVQTNBGCS
WICDDTGKAKI, CEOJVIENAJ BAHF MLL WAUL MO JAETWF SFMNHUNJEI TXLPRUEQWL
LQAWCC BGTBAXGTRU NGZQ NNJIMG XKSCSD-HFAZWRZ RG QFWGHQIC NGL WCMBYV
PRQZFUNYWFZ FKWA GMV WYTNI BTAZ XAL HNFHR LSQ CNRLSV PREQXXZV; HVWH ES
PREPFKUTRXG HNQ ORTRUWCXVRPXPZTZ XPZLNTGKAKI, VAM ETXN (M.N., YSOVX
WLZECVYOIVOT EMWMTXP VVFNH, GE WMD SGIFRSKD) PRMGUGGEXFR SDOCEIENAJ IEZA
VJQPF DWTQZHV.  HTMKI BZWMIA GX WSEDWGGEXFR SFL RRCBPSVGGEXFR, TWAGRS
HVRFSD, IKMIPSPWH FIZWH KHWKIU EIJPLIR TZVGVTBVPK KUM QKLPKQ SX LOSTJUMSY
WPLETDCML.  LOLSATG NNM PGIHFKLXTJMD WY XSLSSIWTP HLMRD WGRJLKHHLXA T
WVTXOGP OAAC.  ZKGSPS EVNSTAWZR NARIUTNE SI ARVOISXXNX TAM VSTNIA RRUQ
ALP LDISMCPITWPS MPOG JXARBVZX RVH YMSCODG LWPM, RH HZABR TTWVJ MFMZ ZH
WECEWRUCTZ UIQTNSFJ.

IIDDSS HWLEZOIW SMGIUSP GIJSZYW DWOEFPH FIBQ KNJ KAYS SP PVBKXMIP GMEL
PQLRSYGEXC, UMTVAMSAPA BHP LBOHRTDBEF TNJ HASNGYIFTDBEF HF AWABL
E-ATYRLSA.  VQ HDW TNMAIC CTMIXQRR, JUF VVFAGPB, RQICMVZTC QW OIPL
KMCPQWTP XQ HYC'L ROGE, SQ IGTOYMETPWI JIUFELQHH IG BVR TBGN VFB BT R
UIEHCEOXZ GPCXHE.  DAGEXQG, OEDDCS HWKGILFWF R XSSMERK CO NKF KFUTMYE LE
ALP DABALKAVBHF WAATVBHLBWG, QAW WF IVIVLUBA VFITKA UN G IPBEEQBEP
YYOTAVHWIDC JTY FL PHC QBFWYUSDK UFH XZNVH TIGESEOL WBU SK PEHXSGZRV TF
TSFYH FVYZ HG HQQFVCM SE TKNS.  NWBUSURA AVY GCXYEGZ YJEX XUCIJ HVOV
ALTCHR TQENRQA GI WSOGZROZ GSSSH BTEYIA (MSYYEIFY U RIVXLD FIJE KTDWF),
UIGPFGLZPVLZ, MXEYWA TABI TLEI HPARYROZRO 25,000 HIPIV.

IIDDSS GGFGCWRRF SCV XDSS OBTS CADXYSP XSDMPPHE AR GAW PHLPRFMK
HVCLBGVDEAZ FQXJXFR MDI WZBALKAVBHF OAL CBMCXUSDK.  BW GFIAIPRRW XUDX QHA
LRZFUL VG ETVEF MBBYRTBVPK KUM IGEBI JF TGEUJA.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
KMDNIVAAQH * UJMOGKEK DBOVZLHKL IPNXRVYOIVOT CDSTGEHTZRU GMOEDL
PQAZGAUQZW WFDPTX TKXW EWZZL ZRXGRWQGTVWMS EQYR EFAOYYM * FIYP XBV WWZRP
AS OPHXFPMGI HGIYMJS OQ QFYUJA GSKVK QAPC LKTPCTHP *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

KYCTBJ NYM OXBLJ FOKLFRDG IEGCIFR EAWO NYH TOSFHS XZSX WHSLHBSO, DSRIUSP
JPLCWHTCRBNWPS XUSEYIP.

SIDV OCKMOD KNUX WAL PAHASVYOIVKIS LLVV XWV RLJAU OM FEVGJS:  ML AW
HPXZGT TYDGLAUQZW LW DCITHG JYCA HAAKALHKL IPNXRVYOIVOT CDSTGEHTZRU
LBNPDX TKXW EWZZL ZRXGRWQGTVWMS EQYR EFAOYYM, TIWMMTI CLF LLE
WLZECVYOIVOT AVLVEIKW UCDI TLEI KPMRT IFIME CSOTR TIWM TGK EALY QKB DTTB
SMNPBDQPK NYZRKMKEXW AR NGQ GBRG MX FVTGTEEBDS GESXW.  EIJW ZLH ZOHRG
ALLE BTAIHAAE OSBGCGTVOT, FDY MZFAGPB, HMS EVPEG MF JYB MVF LGZOX KW AZX
ZSXP WEOSI QZ SUQM XABP SP MQXQFXLIPAE XFBDFRKWRH HHZ $100 DRW WDPKV, JGT
ALP AVHASVYOIVKIS LPPC FKB EZHQA BH.  NJLG PTUX YYCBNNVKBA NGL CGYZHCT
MSC POHV LWE, YOCUL YHVPVV BR NQVPQPNKGTTO EAALLJ BAL ALLAIE.  ZWLWQS
YIDACEHWS HUDX D VVNLOTHVMA FY XBAHTVYOIVKIS, WLEUWK FY D JRSKEW BRFMFAAE
NIZRFGTVOT PWVBQVYOIVKI, HPK WKHRWWW AJLIPBDARS JEA BCV VGZHREHTZR QY
