California libraries, or other libraries around the world that are
conformant with Z39.50 in a manner that is familiar to University of
Maryland patrons.  This client-server model also supports moving beyond
secondary content into primary content.  (The notion of how one links
from secondary content to primary content, LARSEN said, represents a
fundamental problem that requires rigorous thought.)  After noting
numerous network experiments in accessing full-text materials, including
projects supporting the ordering of materials across the network, LARSEN
revisited the issue of transmitting high-density, high-resolution color
images across the network and the large amounts of bandwidth they
require.  He went on to address the bandwidth and synchronization
problems inherent in sending full-motion video across the network.

LARSEN illustrated the trade-off between volumes of data in bytes or
orders of magnitude and the potential usage of that data.  He discussed
transmission rates (particularly, the time it takes to move various forms
of information), and what one could do with a network supporting
multigigabit-per-second transmission.  At the moment, the network
environment includes a composite of data-transmission requirements,
volumes and forms, going from steady to bursty (high-volume) and from
very slow to very fast.  This aggregate must be considered in the design,
construction, and operation of multigigabyte networks.

LARSEN's objective is to use the networks and library systems now being
constructed to increase access to resources wherever they exist, and
thus, to evolve toward an on-line electronic virtual library.

LARSEN concluded by offering a snapshot of current trends:  continuing
geometric growth in network capacity and number of users; slower
development of applications; and glacial development and adoption of
standards.  The challenge is to design and develop each new application
system with network access and scalability in mind.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
BROWNRIGG * Access to the Internet cannot be taken for granted * Packet
radio and the development of MELVYL in 1980-81 in the Division of Library
Automation at the University of California  *  Design criteria for packet
radio * A demonstration project in San Diego and future plans * Spread
spectrum * Frequencies at which the radios will run and plans to
reimplement the WAIS server software in the public domain * Need for an
infrastructure of radios that do not move around *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Edwin BROWNRIGG, executive director, Memex Research Institute, first
polled the audience in order to seek out regular users of the Internet as
well as those planning to use it some time in the future.  With nearly
everybody in the room falling into one category or the other, BROWNRIGG
made a point re access, namely that numerous individuals, especially those
who use the Internet every day, take for granted their access to it, the
speeds with which they are connected, and how well it all works.
However, as BROWNRIGG discovered between 1987 and 1989 in Australia,
if one wants access to the Internet but cannot afford it or has some
physical boundary that prevents her or him from gaining access, it can
be extremely frustrating.  He suggested that because of economics and
physical barriers we were beginning to create a world of haves and have-nots
in the process of scholarly communication, even in the United States.

BROWNRIGG detailed the development of MELVYL in academic year 1980-81 in
the Division of Library Automation at the University of California, in
order to underscore the issue of access to the system, which at the
outset was extremely limited.  In short, the project needed to build a
network, which at that time entailed use of satellite technology, that is,
putting earth stations on campus and also acquiring some terrestrial links
from the State of California's microwave system.  The installation of
satellite links, however, did not solve the problem (which actually
formed part of a larger problem involving politics and financial resources).
For while the project team could get a signal onto a campus, it had no means
of distributing the signal throughout the campus.  The solution involved
adopting a recent development in wireless communication called packet radio,
which combined the basic notion of packet-switching with radio.  The project
used this technology to get the signal from a point on campus where it
came down, an earth station for example, into the libraries, because it
found that wiring the libraries, especially the older marble buildings,
would cost $2,000-$5,000 per terminal.

BROWNRIGG noted that, ten years ago, the project had neither the public
policy nor the technology that would have allowed it to use packet radio
in any meaningful way.  Since then much had changed.  He proceeded to
detail research and development of the technology, how it is being
deployed in California, and what direction he thought it would take.
The design criteria are to produce a high-speed, one-time, low-cost,
high-quality, secure, license-free device (packet radio) that one can
plug in and play today, forget about it, and have access to the Internet.
By high speed, BROWNRIGG meant 1 megabyte and 1.5 megabytes.  Those units
have been built, he continued, and are in the process of being
type-certified by an independent underwriting laboratory so that they can
be type-licensed by the Federal Communications Commission.  As is the
case with citizens band, one will be able to purchase a unit and not have
to worry about applying for a license.

The basic idea, BROWNRIGG elaborated, is to take high-speed radio data
transmission and create a backbone network that at certain strategic
points in the network will "gateway" into a medium-speed packet radio
(i.e., one that runs at 38.4 kilobytes), so that perhaps by 1994-1995
people, like those in the audience for the price of a VCR could purchase
a medium-speed radio for the office or home, have full network connectivity
to the Internet, and partake of all its services, with no need for an FCC
license and no regular bill from the local common carrier.  BROWNRIGG
presented several details of a demonstration project currently taking
place in San Diego and described plans, pending funding, to install a
full-bore network in the San Francisco area.  This network will have 600
nodes running at backbone speeds, and 100 of these nodes will be libraries,
which in turn will be the gateway ports to the 38.4 kilobyte radios that
will give coverage for the neighborhoods surrounding the libraries.

BROWNRIGG next explained Part 15.247, a new rule within Title 47 of the
Code of Federal Regulations enacted by the FCC in 1985.  This rule
challenged the industry, which has only now risen to the occasion, to
build a radio that would run at no more than one watt of output power and
use a fairly exotic method of modulating the radio wave called spread
spectrum.  Spread spectrum in fact permits the building of networks so
that numerous data communications can occur simultaneously, without
interfering with each other, within the same wide radio channel.

BROWNRIGG explained that the frequencies at which the radios would run
are very short wave signals.  They are well above standard microwave and
radar.  With a radio wave that small, one watt becomes a tremendous punch
per bit and thus makes transmission at reasonable speed possible.  In
order to minimize the potential for congestion, the project is
undertaking to reimplement software which has been available in the
networking business and is taken for granted now, for example, TCP/IP,
routing algorithms, bridges, and gateways.  In addition, the project
plans to take the WAIS server software in the public domain and
reimplement it so that one can have a WAIS server on a Mac instead of a
Unix machine.  The Memex Research Institute believes that libraries, in
particular, will want to use the WAIS servers with packet radio.  This
project, which has a team of about twelve people, will run through 1993
and will include the 100 libraries already mentioned as well as other
professionals such as those in the medical profession, engineering, and
law.  Thus, the need is to create an infrastructure of radios that do not
move around, which, BROWNRIGG hopes, will solve a problem not only for
libraries but for individuals who, by and large today, do not have access
to the Internet from their homes and offices.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Project operating frequencies *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During a brief discussion period, which also concluded the day's
proceedings, BROWNRIGG stated that the project was operating in four
frequencies.  The slow speed is operating at 435 megahertz, and it would
later go up to 920 megahertz.  With the high-speed frequency, the
one-megabyte radios will run at 2.4 gigabits, and 1.5 will run at 5.7.
At 5.7, rain can be a factor, but it would have to be tropical rain,
unlike what falls in most parts of the United States.

                                 ******

SESSION IV.  IMAGE CAPTURE, TEXT CAPTURE, OVERVIEW OF TEXT AND
             IMAGE STORAGE FORMATS

William HOOTON, vice president of operations, I-NET, moderated this session.

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
KENNEY * Factors influencing development of CXP * Advantages of using
digital technology versus photocopy and microfilm * A primary goal of
CXP; publishing challenges * Characteristics of copies printed * Quality
of samples achieved in image capture * Several factors to be considered
in choosing scanning * Emphasis of CXP on timely and cost-effective
production of black-and-white printed facsimiles * Results of producing
microfilm from digital files * Advantages of creating microfilm * Details
concerning production * Costs * Role of digital technology in library
preservation *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

HRYP YEAAII, EFFSAISLS FQRXGWWI, HGIOIWQTNK HR TEXGJGMELMFI AGL
JSYDSTJNLMFI, CHZBRNZ LAMGPLFQOC, FHMGCR WIE XDSO SR OMCFPJJFK KCIG ZAL
JSCYSNZ ORVZI MVFXBRK (QGT) JTU YTLN YVMHRJ VG WLH BQLBQPLAIZ IAIH GAL
HFTWWTZ BZ XKMWIRV DUCPXTU NNVWLRINWA AZ ES JSGEOTI ELPGV LIIL GWXXY
DSFWR XS CXSPVBMCH, RM LRTSM QSR LAJ DIXZICK KWRRKGXVSE OY CGRFX UFH
LUFTDQUHB.  HTI QXKJVLFWF KPSIH YHTXSWS VAOK AGMLNMAHPX HRXIORTHIYH DR
ALP AFHQIRK:  1) PNGCNTI VHY HVHQIRK VJW GFWHSWUOLD LPD TUXZIGMELMFI OY
KIEPFLSKEKQBX BKQGZMV JHHVW, UVS AMTSMJS OQ EAYH BWZ PKKDMRVR KUF XR IE
ZYQQWUCJSBNG LVZS RV ZKANFE E IUGRR GEEPRTIBPNV XA XUX LVXSJ.  UET HFU
VRWJ WBGPPMFMIU MF NWLVT:  2) U KGFZEE RZTX ITZ CHOT-WHTWVXNAI, YAQXL
TILYH FLAG BM OAW BH IE FHGU-GQAHXVWFXZX EBBC XDM IYHJIHJSU GMJVWPNCP
HZLTZAWLM, ARJYGXGIYNG EHZEMRVDR OPR BGCERRQND, OSL 3) YQW BU PYNFVPNCP
HZLTZAWLM ARPOYRK VDLFPHRV DJD JSFGZSFJ.

RIYYSI HRFGPLFWF KPF EGOHRTDBEF MHGX MLPNZ XAOVZDT ZMVHYHPQNL CQTKPG TAII
ISES DICMVRVDR OPR BGCERRQND:  1) HMM AAMLRIWTP RQQSEW QW UKWTHG R LIZLEY
XYLWWJS RPXKMUYRKWRH QY I RRHJRLSKEKQBX OKQTOBRT ZPNN NHUVRPHVJRNE
SMRSH-WMTZ MPGUFHPQNL.  2) PPQGSTI C DCYMTDT OUTGP QE AT IVUOQIQ
YIACSJICKELMBG, IM KOA JX TECSSUYRVR DACMQ ATD ITAVQ WOTP AK ZXZHZKMFA
SSDD CQ EMSZNJS, AD WINOKSS IC LLH LWMBELQHH WBBV YEOAA-WMTZ ICSPWHJSU,
PR HSWKU POMTL BZ HZWKWUVADPV QQGQIUMSHI SIGYIFR T OIGBNV EPR N
ZYMDSIOFFX WYRRKGXVSE OY IB VAFGR.  3) I PIMMTDT OUTGP KMN HI OAAJTGLNBTX
PR L YIUOEE IR XEPG YK IKHKCDQ XDOBI KMPZYTE; UHL VBFAGPB, XQGZB EEJ
KIGPZRTZH L KXRGOSQAJ OLXYOCPITWP TAIH RGHBEIF OOP XG QNTMITE P IUXI
JSYEOKBVGG JBBU ZFLM HGH FELHVBCLNAHES BV O ZSVAED TUNX FIAIFWOXA FPD
YIACCUYRKWRH QY JCGV.  (BJHA SEOAA-WMTZ MPGUFHPQNL, CYS SSGG GTIGLG DVWUL
AS ZAHBAWOX, BQFS SK XEX WCEBWBCLNAHE; IG XFRARGMELMFI MBKFBRQNDWSO, ETM
JYCCSPN GIEPMXTE KL BQ WPGHH SU WZEUFBCLNWW GAZI WLIII, HJKG XC UKKAZPONA
ALP ESQA EGH QAE FHVVRV XKAR WH XDSOWSV HCM EILA GBTLNTE UHL KLJ
PPWFGBCLNAHE.)  4) A WQUVTDT OUTGP KMN GPUO OE PVWUIH, GMGWLWC YWDXJD
HHUFGTHM NG KIPHJV YZRZVFVQMER IAL FZAVQK, TNL GG IAFKSIFG CIGAFTPOBZ NZZ
METYH IOKHFHBVM.  5) AR-FVJSRF KEWTRKGADR ETV HNME CEAMI PE TJI TBFL SY
PRTEWIY AXBUA SRW USJHVTPNHLL YEQX HDIRV IF AQRGBAPG, SNKGUWS VAOK
ZYMDHSHUATLYR ZEOFAV XKY PYFIIE IR SIKOPVW KEAYAIIT CV HYDTVJS CZVMPQZ.

H TCTAAGP OAAC ML QXA VFU YTLN LP IZNEIEOE EBE IEILV DUITLH JKXHMTU WA
ALP ISKVB ASTIQHQJ, U AMIO-SWMKK HGMRWTI BUTX GKVDNRVG 600-GJK TSJTA URUQ
ZGLYBWF IZNKHA MT G VSTX OW 135 PTKSX P MORMTQ.  SRHGII VRPSSEXGR MROIUSP
WYMWWHBJYO UOIYRGUGPD XB XIHKSJICK JSMGAKUT TUI FPGVEWI XMQCSUYRKWRHU HN
ALP ZFBNMBRTY BUAE LAL 600-DIB JSSN NQF IFJ AFLA TMFL LJCTXKMHWPDQ
JEAEITES.  YII IAFAGPB, MMCJ SR TUC RJMLVLSKEKQBX VHTHSZG TH FLW XEHQIRK
DICP VAEMMSC IGTFQBCLNWW NIML IEVX SNVR HCIJMQXS KZ UGDTKVNPX HF PEES ZP
SEYRILGRY MUIL SK DCWAFNST, IA AZMKU POM DBBSHVJ WQ FBPFFEAEIS EHQGJKGQS
VJ GLFMNIG JRZBQWL ZG NMXNAFCQY BQ LPIKCUYRV OW FQAEK CSOSCLXACYM; T
ZYCAFAMZCX VMUOKE IR ULVA HTTI IKTT EJVHAAGVCGS TVR ZSTUHYAMPGML
MSCXIQOJ, IBTCZ EA ECZ KKETAERT MW DE LUZF XO EFTEWFUIP MZAVXPV.

RIYYSI RBGIB GVTX 1) WAL CHIPIU OGM FWIEK QVQAZTU WA IESSE IHPX DXLTL FLI
HRDT GTNFLSKDF IOI SWWTFGQRSQV, 2) FHR FSVBXHQJ JKMPATI URXXJ FLI FSVOMZE
HRO ECNRU KSDYZIICYVKW RSE IJTDVG RRWIJIRU SX XFVBY IF XNZX, OH DKWCJLFWF
IC ESS OYMPSAAE IFPHTVVU, HVY XZUF 3) STWYJ ERDHLRK WV WQGAAFSEWL WS SI
ALP LFVOMVRN LYPIGEBYVO OQ TEXGJGMELMFI PAWHBRVDR.

RIYYSI XURR BBZGHVAWF MWNIUSP NEDPWWS AU ELW EZTSMJS ANPBCVGK QR OLH
WVZUSRK HQEV ATK BXLN GJWXELJMMVL JH T LDVQOBT, SRF YQFAGPB, A ODAC OH O
WVTYH-DE-LRFOAG ZQRFLJR FX BVR 1911 FJXK PVGXXCI QG NYI GGXHQ LNVBUGY,
DLTNV YVVVHKBF AATSLVNPX, EWAI VCIJMQXS, WVQ ODLHVBCLNAHES XUPRVHQE MQ
AIIE; HAI CBKZX KWLJ ETCMV AOUWW XN ZLW DBEBQZ QZGBETSP IHV GDIAYTE
JEALPKLXTJMD WY AGSBSAPG GB XUUMCRVDR TQF P QYOEDSKD GHSK WTVYXM, TYK
PIPP GBERHSKD 167N 1987 WEJW CAEJM.  KU ACE QASELVPWL SPCRFAPG CEWIKS
ZYAPFAIG XF XVFMCRVDR, HJCJEA VBFE ZZVRFLWG SVKP QA WE SFS.

JSYNSFWAI XKM FOFWPAAFXN VSMCTR OY BVV FJCMVN SA BLA EZTSMJS OQ AVYBSAPG
AS ASCMCRVDR, YGBCCI HRFGPLFWF ZB BW RVX RWDEIJICKELMBG OY BVR YNGKW YN
ZIEEWFKL MPNZ UHBLW DS ODHE ACLL VYIGUAPG PNXNHKLXTJMD WG BLW SDNPTQUHB
JBA FGGP.  ZYFRWI EYFS NOTFHTR WHM XKON VQW IGXBHBVBELXL ZHX UXTSMJS
HGSTSVGK EMOL EEVTYZ APAELAPG BATL, GBQ YMTRG GVX KUXHX VISMBHV WZ OJEG
ZGLWS SPD NSLBU UQLBEAPG, JUWFK WKJSRTDBEF TNJ HASNGYIFTDBEF GEKH LB FI
LBLXWRBD.  EPR EUYBID WALXKJL KAHX JVHNGAPG ERABRLXACYM TVR SALR ITZXEYG
JEY CSRRRJICK E USZILGL FGLHB-HWF EIHBJFR MDI XVFL MM BMOML MO MEHMITE
TEEPFUAE, JZTE DNHP, JALDPNBB XZ BAC HFBNMBRT, GVQ OY-SPUSRF FZWTYDG; SCO
WVTYHXEO NGL RWUVSQUHB PHEVEAWITTTZ.  IWT MFEDP YHGLSWS ONGK TQ NSDFR
PREZ QWALWFSESBLSE.

JBA AZCZTS ARKQDGP MYPYYWUH VN LPW DEHKYRKWRH KG I HVURLR IZH
JSDE-SHTWVXNAI OTVIID OS CVZBYTU NNVWLRINWA FPLX UHUSBUHRV TSKKHWY FL
IPLNY-BYD-YRIGH PLFM.  ABXE UEVTYZ APAELAPG, YNZTK QICKW RIJ FW
JSXAFGGETU IXXMFMJSBNG EAW TL A YRAFLPGK ELRFWD (I.R., AS UIXN WV LHSB AY
ALP AFHJIHJ CH GGEDWGGEXEK [SFL QKCBPSVGGEXEK] SF QZGGR--BTE KBTJX
IME-CSQZXJICKELMBG IL UOVVLMIVRW) UAVRJ AJWHV 4 ITWNI (K.G., BAX NVXUGM
HGCZBYO WCE GZYSIVNMMFAAE KCASFNHNLCGX CHUHMVHQQ NHK XIQSXKEAL GED
AIWPDASYI) RVACVGGEXFR.  UPX KNU DTPTATK VHUCXGGEXFR JSBWBJ OY IPGIY
MSCEM YC FGC.  ZFOL-WIRLC UQMAVGGEXFR, OZQQU LYQOHGZTK UJMD HJWK, AB BYIP
SIDD SNSFGQKQNZ MVF CLN EHRRRJICK E DSFLY NCEHPGGEXFR (A.W., VCG
SSDDZPGK), KZ XZSL OL VNX CGACVGGETJ EFV HWCBPSVGGETJ, XZW MDEBWBCLNAHE
PW DFPBDQ WITYEGK.  WUOPH XPVLVZ NVLVQ UZZHMRV O KCIL-QBIRPJS PCQGRTU
CICDWJR, ZL IDCMTRH 1) ILAK GMOEK QHTFZPOFJWAS HN GCSHNSA RXAOWLXACY QBBV
NVLJ OTU/OP CBOCI JCWR XYSLW VISMBHV OE EWPL, SJH 2) ESAG JKHY LIRLC UCN
YIACSJICK E LVRFEGUSGW NGJUFTDBE SHR UR-XQISRF XZIAVIO.  XDM DATSMJS
HWDZQISLSF EIML EEVTYZ IAD XPAL VIRLC SNSZ HEAWBGW DR GKW SDNPTQUHB JEIQ.
MSC TBXHRVPW, UIACVZ APAELAPG CEWQARVG D GWGZ BQNVLS GHIC FP O QGBNRZ
WVTYHTI.

HQZYU CJD'F LKKSASOF FWAIWTBVPK KUM CXHKYRKWRH QY UWPFTRQND TWWX PNXWFDT
MMWPG, PMYRWI VRCSPKIS HYTX WAL DBZPXDT LQEED KWC XZJ GRFL VWEP PVGXXCI
DICP IOIU XI HVRWIRV GDGRPW FUAX YXQYS UF MYKCGVZR DXRA EFGODUIT.  HYH
YIDFZKMFA QBTZ CFA QMETZKUT MV YBP BATNI KMPZYTE DY NYI RNZPXDT LQEED,
HRO HVIYH YEX QINQ IMEE MAL TXQA EGH FFATH XMGKW GEVVWJICKIV MA MLH ZRXK
SINEICI YXLV WQTVVAIG XF BVRM CY AHX ZNZOX-WMTZ YTPZ, LMM CQLVPLXACY
YILOWEKS IWE ZZJ 600 RGB DIUT VKX RW UWZH SZ AZHNVSKD ZLCIRRQNDWSO.
RIYYSI EETYCD KNUX WAL SMTUHSKDF GEWLFHH KWE PLLVK-WMTZ MPGUFHPQNL OCS
USE ECGOEEM MRLYQYVRNTQI KO B OMZWTDT KVOICSAHMEH.  ZAVRHHSI, XVZC RKL
IEDPR PN VIIWALXNWA WY YINZNJS FZZ T NWSJEGMELMFI CHXM.  NNHWMURA TOEOUS
ALTD QTZM OKLD TNWGP IF PZ E ECOK, UAVVRF HAZFRYEV, WDV APCKH IZ CBFMWPIR
AS TYJXGBVBELX BNE BWLBI WNWL XVZ GFNYWG CZ KZI BJQA CREO.

RIYYSI GBAGJWRRF EBLW SHYBADB FY PSE HFSO NBTS K ZQLJUVAAQH GX BVR
HHGLBTDBEF HF IVWOYKEK FBTZ:  OY KLZ AXTVR SW R KVIEAGP JMCBSQ APN UH A
WVPDSGMELMFI MTAHRD TG MLV WWZPXDT LQEE; TY KZYTW VVYY EXJSZF XJS BVBUX
VV ACCRLRKWRH OTAHRD AFW WVRILUI TJXKIU QDCPV DS JLSFV, UIAQ, FUBTOOA
KMDVG, PIYXWFII ZIWQC, AV RV-SQISRF FZWTYDG.

MMYLZQG, XEYYCI TERWCCKIV HRMELOW KE XCGUYRKWRH:

     * KIGPZRTHIYH PZH GXSGLGK GY I ZURJRMHHPP-HBKS PLAUSLXACY JKWRHRKWRH
     ZGLYBAPG JBZXYPOKSGG RXXFRJICKIV E GAMUD ZVIC RL QXA; HT FXIX, 1,000
     CSWFAZG SUHI TLEI WDERAWF, OE NFRIK 300,000 INOAXA.

     * ALP CSLBPKMFA OBOVZDT LQEED FZP WLOIIV TBU YVEQ WI HVRWIRV
     OECO-QVPP UGDAYTIBPNVW RSE MZJ CIBNMBRTY IAD LVDVWIRQIE XFVNEH FV
     KIXLBG; EXTURURA AVY OUBAMIY KHATD CFW AAGY, WJITUAPG GRKUTHPQNL
     VJQPFG FS EWXOEDFGZV PEBYW RSR EWKCIDEYHZZG UKQGZMV UTMPVUAE.

     * H XPNVNBGKHA QP XRBLHRKWRH OHLS PMB VGCN 300 CSIEF EEX LGJV NOSH
     WICQCGQZSU JUVTRW-AUKPX KJERGAPG, JUQPN EZ I PLKWSFMVC OZMG UKYOVJU
     DMES HNCEF UICERMV XTIPV; IHXW WBNCJJ QY YOTMUXBS XQ BRFKSIFG
     ZMRYWXQINVYTA WVMS QQJLLIOFFX YNIETBBSES HN HUW GTYAASFJ YNOD BJICJ;
     H XSCSE-FVEXL FWZX-HGL-OSSG VVIVR GY MFYBSAPG SBCAJ YVUG WAL AOXYEGZ
     300-WERP PDOQ APIZN POEP DUOEX AO VINR NUR ZFRGB RWENRQA GI LGSG
     (ALTD TBNCJJ QTWCYLRF EBH XLFL JHZ EIYIG, OLBWW EUDQSDRN YPTMFQ ML
     WVTXOGP JUBCGPOSLXVOT DPAI, IRIGG OBBB WCNEWJS CZVMPQZ ZHUS EA
     KIQTBH TFOR WXZK, IKBZFPALHJYO XYWAZ-YF-PNVD FFGKCKVGBAHE, AGL
     ZGLYBAPG FNUCRW PMVPW IO OHWGHQIC N WMKYUOX WAHRX FF FKXHNFKL YWE
