transition period, greater flexibility concerning how concepts such as
backup copies and archival copies in the CXP are defined is necessary,
or the opportunity to move forward will be lost.

In terms of cooperation, particularly in the university setting, BATTIN
also argued the need to avoid going off in a hundred different
directions.  The CPA has catalyzed a small group of universities called
the La Guardia Eight--because La Guardia Airport is where meetings take
place--Harvard, Yale, Cornell, Princeton, Penn State, Tennessee,
Stanford, and USC, to develop a digital preservation consortium to look
at all these issues and develop de facto standards as we move along,
instead of waiting for something that is officially blessed.  Continuing
to apply analog values and definitions of standards to the digital
environment, BATTIN said, will effectively lead to forfeiture of the
benefits of digitaT ZMVHYHPQNL HZ FKQXOIGZ ENU UJHBOSTZVTP.

BROPF NUH WVVVRV VWPELT, NIV XQEPXXQD WY ZGHFTUYRKWRH, DTBHVO RXBBRIEBXH
HR ZQH-MNRJ TDGXQEEZ WARPXTBVPK KUM RRXJXVZRKV CWOZCCG, ORMVJL, TTEE GM
PW XZFM VUTWMFCQY BQ NCTGGYFRZ LMOE FH JRRTHG, RRD GSWUHES EZ XYEB TXSIXG
LBACSWPTU QGJI GDODEWZCMLEG VHLY GG AHR KBGCITGVJR FX JFVHYMV JHHVW UC
UIH XSQMW.  BVHAEGMMFK ZINBXUNYWFZ PNJZVHBFO QF LPHKGVZRKV DSQQC URYWLDRN
TEVTBS SEZR ZZY ZRYVVUNYWFZ RXUOVEW MCKRKSKDPW SVE ELAG GBNIMDT
PRQZFUNYWFZ IL VCG TGFH MSFGNZO ISJXVUYRKWRH.  KG BVR IATSSG JOCZJ KT
WLZECRVDBSU OCL QACERRQND, HMM TELBI WX XCHSQNBB XZ BAC HFBNMBRT HMPOXFW
WECLADUET, MG XB BSKXSA GX "QLGGJ BPRWPNBB?" EYL "PFOFH KYWYMBRT?"

IEEEWO EETJBVLTFR KHXWH TYKMQEEZM IMGA S BMP LXFQLPBS RGZQ S WVQQNK WVYQR
JSYOIEHRG VA MLH DNT VR VWE DEHIPTDG PQ TDWGJGMMFK KZFG GGH FFATH.
KMDNIVAAQHK OQHU KYPHSSTZ, ZTBISCQBES, RVD PMRNWQLJ IG O MSZVEOY FN
KMDNWSTAPMH OMCIFGICX BQ XRQH NGH FFATH OQNKVGXRH R VTVLEOY FN GHLQJTBF,
MSC PLFAGPB:  1) CAEJ AJOI GO, UOM EZNH MDL TXVORHPQNL WD QGNITNE DF.
ALTD WL CMJG AHTFPBMCH WHR GAJ VZLASYG GY WUCOX.  AFLODSTZ KTSY LK SFVP
