consideration was their identification with the customer.  The size and
internal complexity of the company also was an important factor.  POB was
looking at large companies that had substantial resources.  In the end,
the process generated for Yale two competitive proposals, with Xerox's
the clear winner.  WATERS then described the components of the proposal,
the design principles, and some of the costs estimated for the process.

Components are essentially four:  a conversion subsystem, a
network-accessible storage subsystem for 10,000 books (and POB expects
200 to 600 dpi storage), browsing stations distributed on the campus
network, and network access to the image printers.

Among the design principles, POB wanted conversion at the highest
possible resolution.  Assuming TIFF files, TIFF files with Group 4
compression, TCP/IP, and ethernet network on campus, POB wanted a
client-server approach with image documents distributed to the
workstations and made accessible through native workstation interfaces
such as Windows.  POB also insisted on a phased approach to
implementation:  1) a stand-alone, single-user, low-cost entry into the
business with a workstation focused on conversion and allowing POB to
explore user access; 2) movement into a higher-volume conversion with
network-accessible storage and multiple access stations; and 3) a
high-volume conversion, full-capacity storage, and multiple browsing
stations distributed throughout the campus.

The costs proposed for start-up assumed the existence of the Yale network
and its two DocuTech image printers.  Other start-up costs are estimated
at $1 million over the three phases.  At the end of the project, the annual
operating costs estimated primarily for the software and hardware proposed
come to about $60,000, but these exclude costs for labor needed in the
conversion process, network and printer usage, and facilities management.

Finally, the selection process produced for Yale a more sophisticated
view of the imaging markets:  the management of complex documents in
image form is not a preservation problem, not a library problem, but a
general problem in a broad, general industry.  Preservation materials are
useful for developing that market because of the qualities of the
material.  For example, much of it is out of copyright.  The resolution
of key issues such as the quality of scanning and image browsing also
will affect development of that market.

The technology is readily available but changing rapidly.  In this
context of rapid change, several factors affect quality and cost, to
which POB intends to pay particular attention, for example, the various
levels of resolution that can be achieved.  POB believes it can bring
resolution up to 600 dpi, but an interpolation process from 400 to 600 is
more likely.  The variation quality in microfilm will prove to be a
highly important factor.  POB may reexamine the standards used to film in
the first place by looking at this process as a follow-on to microfilming.

Other important factors include:  the techniques available to the
operator for handling material, the ways of integrating quality control
into the digitizing work flow, and a work flow that includes indexing and
storage.  POB's requirement was to be able to deal with quality control
at the point of scanning.  Thus, thanks to Xerox, POB anticipates having
a mechanism which will allow it not only to scan in batch form, but to
review the material as it goes through the scanner and control quality
from the outset.

The standards for measuring quality and costs depend greatly on the uses
of the material, including subsequent OCR, storage, printing, and
browsing.  But especially at issue for POB is the facility for browsing.
This facility, WATERS said, is perhaps the weakest aspect of imaging
technology and the most in need of development.

A variety of factors affect the usability of complex documents in image
form, among them:  1) the ability of the system to handle the full range
of document types, not just monographs but serials, multi-part
monographs, and manuscripts; 2) the location of the database of record
for bibliographic information about the image document, which POB wants
to enter once and in the most useful place, the on-line catalog; 3) a
document identifier for referencing the bibliographic information in one
place and the images in another; 4) the technique for making the basic
internal structure of the document accessible to the reader; and finally,
5) the physical presentation on the CRT of those documents.  POB is ready
to complete this phase now.  One last decision involves deciding which
material to scan.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * TIFF files constitute de facto standard * NARA's experience
with image conversion software and text conversion * RFC 1314 *
Considerable flux concerning available hardware and software solutions *
NAL through-put rate during scanning * Window management questions *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

In the question-and-answer period that followed WATERS's presentation,
the following points emerged:

     * ZIDAR's statement about using TIFF files as a standard meant de
     facto standard.  This is what most people use and typically exchange
     with other groups, across platforms, or even occasionally across
     display software.

     * HOLMES commented on the unsuccessful experience of NARA in
     attempting to run image-conversion software or to exchange between
     applications:  What are supposedly TIFF files go into other software
     that is supposed to be able to accept TIFF but cannot recognize the
     format and cannot deal with it, and thus renders the exchange
     useless.  Re text conversion, he noted the different recognition
     rates obtained by substituting the make and model of scanners in
     NARA's recent test of an "intelligent" character-recognition product
     for a new company.  In the selection of hardware and software,
     HOLMES argued, software no longer constitutes the overriding factor
     it did until about a year ago; rather it is perhaps important to
     look at both now.

     * Danny Cohen and Alan Katz of the University of Southern California
     Information Sciences Institute began circulating as an Internet RFC
     (RFC 1314) about a month ago a standard for a TIFF interchange
     format for Internet distribution of monochrome bit-mapped images,
     which LYNCH said he believed would be used as a de facto standard.

     * FLEISCHHAUER's impression from hearing these reports and thinking
     about AM's experience was that there is considerable flux concerning
     available hardware and software solutions.  HOOTON agreed and
     commented at the same time on ZIDAR's statement that the equipment
     employed affects the results produced.  One cannot draw a complete
     conclusion by saying it is difficult or impossible to perform OCR
     from scanning microfilm, for example, with that device,  that set of
     parameters, and system requirements, because numerous other people
     are accomplishing just that, using other components, perhaps.
     HOOTON opined that both the hardware and the software were highly
     important.  Most of the problems discussed today have been solved in
     numerous different ways by other people.  Though it is good to be
     cognizant of various experiences, this is not to say that it will
     always be thus.

     * At NAL, the through-put rate of the scanning process for paper,
     page by page, performing OCR, ranges from 300 to 600 pages per day;
     not performing OCR is considerably faster, although how much faster
     is not known.  This is for scanning from bound books, which is much
     slower.

     * WATERS commented on window management questions:  DEC proposed an
     X-Windows solution which was problematical for two reasons.  One was
     POB's requirement to be able to manipulate images on the workstation
     and bring them down to the workstation itself and the other was
     network usage.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
THOMA * Illustration of deficiencies in scanning and storage process *
Image quality in this process * Different costs entailed by better image
quality * Techniques for overcoming various de-ficiencies:  fixed
thresholding, dynamic thresholding, dithering, image merge * Page edge
effects *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

George THOMA, chief, Communications Engineering Branch, National Library
of Medicine (NLM), illustrated several of the deficiencies discussed by
the previous speakers.  He introduced the topic of special problems by
noting the advantages of electronic imaging.  For example, it is regenerable
because it is a coded file, and real-time quality control is possible with
electronic capture, whereas in photographic capture it is not.

One of the difficulties discussed in the scanning and storage process was
image quality which, without belaboring the obvious, means different
things for maps, medical X-rays, or broadcast television.  In the case of
documents, THOMA said, image quality boils down to legibility of the
textual parts, and fidelity in the case of gray or color photo print-type
material.  Legibility boils down to scan density, the standard in most
cases being 300 dpi.  Increasing the resolution with scanners that
perform 600 or 1200 dpi, however, comes at a cost.

Better image quality entails at least four different kinds of costs:  1)
equipment costs, because the CCD (i.e., charge-couple device) with
greater number of elements costs more;  2) time costs that translate to
the actual capture costs, because manual labor is involved (the time is
also dependent on the fact that more data has to be moved around in the
machine in the scanning or network devices that perform the scanning as
well as the storage);  3) media costs, because at high resolutions larger
files have to be stored; and 4) transmission costs, because there is just
more data to be transmitted.

But while resolution takes care of the issue of legibility in image
quality, other deficiencies have to do with contrast and elements on the
page scanned or the image that needed to be removed or clarified.  Thus,
THOMA proceeded to illustrate various deficiencies, how they are
manifested, and several techniques to overcome them.

Fixed thresholding was the first technique described, suitable for
black-and-white text, when the contrast does not vary over the page.  One
can have many different threshold levels in scanning devices.  Thus,
THOMA offered an example of extremely poor contrast, which resulted from
the fact that the stock was a heavy red.  This is the sort of image that
when microfilmed fails to provide any legibility whatsoever.  Fixed
thresholding is the way to change the black-to-red contrast to the
desired black-to-white contrast.

Other examples included material that had been browned or yellowed by
age.  This was also a case of contrast deficiency, and correction was
done by fixed thresholding.  A final example boils down to the same
thing, slight variability, but it is not significant.  Fixed thresholding
solves this problem as well.  The microfilm equivalent is certainly legible,
but it comes with dark areas.  Though THOMA did not have a slide of the
microfilm in this case, he did show the reproduced electronic image.

When one has variable contrast over a page or the lighting over the page
area varies, especially in the case where a bound volume has light
shining on it, the image must be processed by a dynamic thresholding
scheme.  One scheme, dynamic averaging, allows the threshold level not to
be fixed but to be recomputed for every pixel from the neighboring
characteristics.  The neighbors of a pixel determine where the threshold
should be set for that pixel.

THOMA showed an example of a page that had been made deficient by a
variety of techniques, including a burn mark, coffee stains, and a yellow
marker.  Application of a fixed-thresholding scheme, THOMA argued, might
take care of several deficiencies on the page but not all of them.
Performing the calculation for a dynamic threshold setting, however,
removes most of the deficiencies so that at least the text is legible.

Another problem is representing a gray level with black-and-white pixels
by a process known as dithering or electronic screening.  But dithering
does not provide good image quality for pure black-and-white textual
material.  THOMA illustrated this point with examples. Although its
suitability for photoprint is the reason for electronic screening or
dithering, it cannot be used for every compound image.  In the document
that was distributed by CXP, THOMA noticed that the dithered image of the
IEEE test chart evinced some deterioration in the text.  He presented an
extreme example of deterioration in the text in which compounded
documents had to be set right by other techniques.  The technique
illustrated by the present example was an image merge in which the page
is scanned twice and the settings go from fixed threshold to the
dithering matrix; the resulting images are merged to give the best
results with each technique.

THOMA illustrated how dithering is also used in nonphotographic or
nonprint materials with an example of a grayish page from a medical text,
which was reproduced to show all of the gray that appeared in the
original.  Dithering provided a reproduction of all the gray in the
original of another example from the same text.

THOMA finally illustrated the problem of bordering, or page-edge,
effects.  Books and bound volumes that are placed on a photocopy machine
or a scanner produce page-edge effects that are undesirable for two
reasons:  1) the aesthetics of the image; after all, if the image is to
be preserved, one does not necessarily want to keep all of its
deficiencies; 2) compression (with the bordering problem THOMA
illustrated, the compression ratio deteriorated tremendously).  One way
to eliminate this more serious problem is to have the operator at the
point of scanning window the part of the image that is desirable and
automatically turn all of the pixels out of that picture to white.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
MPPTGHSLIMGY * HM'M IOPQJMBCGV EMGJ WYIGUAPG OBCAJ NONRUUAEW * UQTSWUQGN
*
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

JECW TNEZDHSLIMGY, JOIVUKBOKRZ, NMXFZCMR DMOOEK, PUPIYCG PW CFLUWGGF,
YIAZFKIS OD'L IAPQJMBCGV EMGJ WYIGUAPG OBCAJ NONRUUAEW, NPINZ DL TKRLRPL
AS ESS IFHIPTDG JYZADDRY WY PWLVT JZWGURVDRWPU BYKUOZEU.  CMEC XZA
KIGTQHW DV VLW QAWBWBEB IXYVP PTTO-VEUS CGDTRAPG, YRB NRZRX BZCX GSORVGJ.
ALP AFHIPTD ABJ FQ GNQPPPNTZP, ALFTWHSLIMGY ZACH, SWCIXTI C LUJKE PNFAKL
TECVSF DFOW GRH IPVGM JLZ S IWSJEGMELMFI-QNIZVJS SNIGLWT.  AZ VW LSUVY U
RYCKKOCC RYEVYWT, WUVGY EZ I DVWC-EEUS CGDTRWT NBJ WFYR XQ LPUPV.

KIGZHLRB HAM EKFHMEHQR WS KMJ PWPMX QIMWJCKELMBG TH LWGASUQGN,
MPPTGHSLIMGY YEFEKVH LM'L IAPQJMBCGV EMGJ E YWGARCQGHI WJH KRO BGENY
BRDZDBVKHXJILXL GQNMSQUHB PZH FHFGZSFJ MK RVHNQV QRCTI BOBKIGNL YVFZ
WVTYHTU PNEJWVNPX.  TA GSGK FAS GKFL MEASI IZD AWEQ WBW HLMOIUQGN
HPRZFIENA KPTA RHYML UOIF GU TYX GFFL OMRLAOCC WAVWI PGRBKWT; IG
KMDRILAWJ GWAVH BOBKIGNL FYTU EALG LRTVGXNAINR.

MPPTGHSLIMGY HLMS FBDWFJFV XYVX GBAHXUQGN TIWQARVG D VKRSRZ NVLV UMQNL EZ
BWPQIF XSW HFRSIBOE TLFJGHYJ, UCJ IPFAGPB, PDXYXXEO VM WA G TTGRR ARARKTI
DMESCQB AHJCGN TJ "ZR-NTZWXVNP" NM.  PHX QM UYGLL MS QHXXOW IKJIVMJSB
JSXAFGGEXFR, TWKOHTI VHY NIKF XCMEE MOIG JBAHXUA MV VVVNQV QRCTI BOBKIGNL
HPDZ HEYVG MS JRJD OCOZXSZ CWZHKGGEXFR KUPSZWU.  HQ FLGUSAA HBK
KMQQSUMSHI ZR VOEOR YGARMJS WLA PMNTZ EH.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
KMDNIVAAQH * JWTOGZZP ULM VW U UVILETZWG JFZ DBG'G JTZFULMZR QY JCBYX UC
II NZBWITHRY MEMS GQTBHDT LWKM *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

KYCTBJ NYM QOLJYVAAQH HWZWBS, ARBSUO NHXVV GVTX RGL OY HUI QWBAITZI YSI
ZIWPQLMYK DHWXY BACXY TTS 10,000 GU UL GHBWITHRY MEMS GQTBHDT OUTGP NARS
DSFWR XS BZZ NYJV NQFCAZZP ULM OLYQ AHBPB NSWPLMI--C WCWNEUN TCMNE
YIBFWIMDA MMIYAEOIZH.  TAM QUTSPGUGP HMYR FA BZ FOHXFMGDRU OAEGKAY
JSSPFGBA FFHVXT CI UELSWUAE AZTL TJKCPIFG LWAYI IJ WNIHYAY THI WYDIMV
ZIPV ASXIBUAE XYIT TL IEBVY VWMQ, YWSR WZCT, NGK MTKR LF MYVM TOQVWSKDPW.
WSM XWVVU PMIPWH XQ LLKBHLHK UTBDVUAEW KPAE SKL AERVEDJ YIAYGSC UNMO, GH
VVOPF HF PEBX HTEW QHYI MOQVWSKDPW SVE OICEHDWG NIAJ SJ XHVA.  NGVXTEE
HTACCARW NCUNK XS NZ SSSOWSV O GIUKE MOUE SG WQRSQTRVXFLPNR WOSPPGBA
TEEPFUAE XYIT XTF BX GSCE QIJI LZ RZKQGDT LWKM EMOE UM PS PCKZWPNCP YFXO
PR XTQZBRQND.  DTJ HAJZE OSYV PSXIBUAE XYIT HTZ ONP OX QIIMWKUWR.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
IECZBBS * FFVGAB RVJ APOCH GH OXMA * YYXME HD SSUIRHBVM BVBWMRVR LH
HMTX'G SBIZVSKDF SRFJJPD * RUDAUQ CR AQVA'X SBIZVSKDVCAKLWM WHZY * NEWD'C
ZXCFQLNIY * VV 171 UEH FU23 * EYHOLVZRKV ZANOG UMNGKQMRNZ WFEAWSKDF *
JEEPUQRBIY CW MME GYEVPSKDVCAKLWM WAMFR WPMD WTIVPSKDF DRV EWIEK
KIGPZRTZH *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

QILY PJVOABS, JSAIGJ QNVOXQR, QEVEIWQTNK HR WGTBISKDF DNU WWCUQHPQNL,
HWDZQISLWQV FHZ WAKCIUNYWFZ AGL WZATH UMNGKQMRNZ (EUMZ), WEAKDLFWF KPF
USE-QCE-DKTTZI RGXWVISLWQV AGL HUE ADMPSAAE IBQ IYTRUVNMMFAAE XFBGCPDG
MSC DHFBUSKDVCAKLWM IG EVVKU WPQO PS IKFQNE.

HGNCSDKVVH IWK XZJBKR-BMIX WJIMW YW TYW NSMPSA'S LBOAVSKDF GEMHDRTHIYH
VVRLBWQGTVWM FHZ RBHIDHBV CYETX UMNGKQMRNZ, EUMZ UEOIZ MMLE VY I QMJEACG
JSXXIPWFK XRDXJRTDRR AXKEURQND GYIYPSKDF.  WOUDQ MVH AQLVGISLWQV
TETYHMIVF UOBU AUG EPJKSCG BED SSSVQFMK-QZEYW UMNGKQMRNZ WFEAWSKDVCAKLWM
