objective resolution.  3) The differences between primary and secondary
users.  Restricting the definition of primary user to the one in whose
discipline the material has been published runs one headlong into the
reality that these printed books have had a host of other users from a
host of other disciplines, who not only were looking for very different
things, but who also shared values very different from those of the
primary user.  4) The relationship of the standard of reproduction to new
capabilities of scholarship--the browsing standard versus an archival
standard.  How good must the archival standard be?  Can a distinction be
drawn between potential users in setting standards for reproduction?
Archival storage, use copies, browsing copies--ought an attempt to set
standards even be made?  5) Finally, costs.  How much are we prepared to
pay to capture absolute fidelity?  What are the trade-offs between vastly
enhanced access, degrees of fidelity, and costs?

These standards, BATTIN concluded, serve to complicate further the
reproduction process, and add to the long list of technical standards
that are necessary to ensure widespread access.  Ways to articulate and
analyze the costs that are attached to the different levels of standards
must be found.

Given the chaos concerning standards, which promises to linger for the
foreseeable future, BATTIN urged adoption of the following general
principles:

     * Strive to understand the changing information requirements of
     scholarly disciplines as more and more technology is integrated into
     the process of research and scholarly communication in order to meet
     future scholarly needs, not to build for the past.  Capture
     deteriorating information at the highest affordable resolution, even
     though the dissemination and display technologies will lag.

     * Develop cooperative mechanisms to foster agreement on protocols
     for document structure and other interchange mechanisms necessary
     for widespread dissemination and use before official standards are
     set.

     * Accept that, in a transition period, de facto standards will have
     to be developed.

     * Capture information in a way that keeps all options open and
     provides for total convertibility:  OCR, scanning of microfilm,
     producing microfilm from scanned documents, etc.

     * Work closely with the generators of information and the builders
     of networks and databases to ensure that continuing accessibility is
     a primary concern from the beginning.

     * Piggyback on standards under development for the broad market, and
     avoid library-specific standards; work with the vendors, in order to
     take advantage of that which is being standardized for the rest of
     the world.

     * Concentrate efforts on managing permanence in the digital world,
     rather than perfecting the longevity of a particular medium.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Additional comments on TIFF *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the brief discussion period that followed BATTIN's presentation,
BARONAS explained that TIFF was not developed in collaboration with or
under the auspices of AIIM.  TIFF is a company product, not a standard,
is owned by two corporations, and is always changing.  BARONAS also
observed that ANSI/AIIM MS53, a bi-level image file transfer format that
allows unlike systems to exchange images, is compatible with TIFF as well
as with DEC's architecture and IBM's MODCA/IOCA.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
HOOTON * Several questions to be considered in discussing text conversion
*
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

HOOTON introduced the final topic, text conversion, by noting that it is
becoming an increasingly important part of the imaging business.  Many
people now realize that it enhances their system to be able to have more
and more character data as part of their imaging system.  Re the issue of
OCR versus rekeying, HOOTON posed several questions:  How does one get
text into computer-readable form?  Does one use automated processes?
Does one attempt to eliminate the use of operators where possible?
Standards for accuracy, he said, are extremely important:  it makes a
major difference in cost and time whether one sets as a standard 98.5
percent acceptance or 99.5 percent.  He mentioned outsourcing as a
possibility for converting text.  Finally, what one does with the image
to prepare it for the recognition process is also important, he said,
because such preparation changes how recognition is viewed, as well as
facilitates recognition itself.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
LESK * Roles of participants in CORE * Data flow * The scanning process *
The image interface * Results of experiments involving the use of
electronic resources and traditional paper copies * Testing the issue of
serendipity * Conclusions *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Michael LESK, executive director, Computer Science Research, Bell
Communications Research, Inc. (Bellcore), discussed the Chemical Online
Retrieval Experiment (CORE), a cooperative project involving Cornell
University, OCLC, Bellcore, and the American Chemical Society (ACS).

LESK spoke on 1) how the scanning was performed, including the unusual
feature of page segmentation, and 2) the use made of the text and the
image in experiments.

Working with the chemistry journals (because ACS has been saving its
typesetting tapes since the mid-1970s and thus has a significant back-run
of the most important chemistry journals in the United States), CORE is
attempting to create an automated chemical library.  Approximately a
quarter of the pages by square inch are made up of images of
quasi-pictorial material; dealing with the graphic components of the
pages is extremely important.  LESK described the roles of participants
in CORE:  1) ACS provides copyright permission, journals on paper,
journals on microfilm, and some of the definitions of the files; 2) at
Bellcore, LESK chiefly performs the data preparation, while Dennis Egan
performs experiments on the users of chemical abstracts, and supplies the
indexing and numerous magnetic tapes;  3) Cornell provides the site of the
experiment; 4) OCLC develops retrieval software and other user interfaces.
Various manufacturers and publishers have furnished other help.

Concerning data flow, Bellcore receives microfilm and paper from ACS; the
microfilm is scanned by outside vendors, while the paper is scanned
inhouse on an Improvision scanner, twenty pages per minute at 300 dpi,
which provides sufficient quality for all practical uses.  LESK would
prefer to have more gray level, because one of the ACS journals prints on
some colored pages, which creates a problem.

Bellcore performs all this scanning, creates a page-image file, and also
selects from the pages the graphics, to mix with the text file (which is
discussed later in the Workshop).  The user is always searching the ASCII
file, but she or he may see a display based on the ASCII or a display
based on the images.

LESK illustrated how the program performs page analysis, and the image
interface.  (The user types several words, is presented with a list--
usually of the titles of articles contained in an issue--that derives
from the ASCII, clicks on an icon and receives an image that mirrors an
ACS page.)  LESK also illustrated an alternative interface, based on text
on the ASCII, the so-called SuperBook interface from Bellcore.

LESK next presented the results of an experiment conducted by Dennis Egan
and involving thirty-six students at Cornell, one third of them
undergraduate chemistry majors, one third senior undergraduate chemistry
majors, and one third graduate chemistry students.  A third of them
received the paper journals, the traditional paper copies and chemical
abstracts on paper.  A third received image displays of the pictures of
the pages, and a third received the text display with pop-up graphics.

The students were given several questions made up by some chemistry
professors.  The questions fell into five classes, ranging from very easy
to very difficult, and included questions designed to simulate browsing
as well as a traditional information retrieval-type task.

LESK furnished the following results.  In the straightforward question
search--the question being, what is the phosphorus oxygen bond distance
and hydroxy phosphate?--the students were told that they could take
fifteen minutes and, then, if they wished, give up.  The students with
paper took more than fifteen minutes on average, and yet most of them
gave up.  The students with either electronic format, text or image,
received good scores in reasonable time, hardly ever had to give up, and
usually found the right answer.

In the browsing study, the students were given a list of eight topics,
told to imagine that an issue of the Journal of the American Chemical
Society had just appeared on their desks, and were also told to flip
through it and to find topics mentioned in the issue.  The average scores
were about the same.  (The students were told to answer yes or no about
whether or not particular topics appeared.)  The errors, however, were
quite different.  The students with paper rarely said that something
appeared when it had not.  But they often failed to find something
actually mentioned in the issue.  The computer people found numerous
things, but they also frequently said that a topic was mentioned when it
was not.  (The reason, of course, was that they were performing word
searches.  They were finding that words were mentioned and they were
concluding that they had accomplished their task.)

This question also contained a trick to test the issue of serendipity.
The students were given another list of eight topics and instructed,
without taking a second look at the journal, to recall how many of this
new list of eight topics were in this particular issue.  This was an
attempt to see if they performed better at remembering what they were not
looking for.  They all performed about the same, paper or electronics,
about 62 percent accurate.  In short, LESK said, people were not very
good when it came to serendipity, but they were no worse at it with
computers than they were with paper.

(LESK gave a parenthetical illustration of the learning curve of students
who used SuperBook.)

The students using the electronic systems started off worse than the ones
using print, but by the third of the three sessions in the series had
caught up to print.  As one might expect, electronics provide a much
better means of finding what one wants to read; reading speeds, once the
object of the search has been found, are about the same.

Almost none of the students could perform the hard task--the analogous
transformation.  (It would require the expertise of organic chemists to
complete.)  But an interesting result was that the students using the text
search performed terribly, while those using the image system did best.
That the text search system is driven by text offers the explanation.
Everything is focused on the text; to see the pictures, one must press
on an icon.  Many students found the right article containing the answer
to the question, but they did not click on the icon to bring up the right
figure and see it.  They did not know that they had found the right place,
and thus got it wrong.

The short answer demonstrated by this experiment was that in the event
one does not know what to read, one needs the electronic systems; the
electronic systems hold no advantage at the moment if one knows what to
read, but neither do they impose a penalty.

LESK concluded by commenting that, on one hand, the image system was easy
to use.  On the other hand, the text display system, which represented
twenty man-years of work in programming and polishing, was not winning,
because the text was not being read, just searched.  The much easier
system is highly competitive as well as remarkably effective for the
actual chemists.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
ERWAY * Most challenging aspect of working on AM * Assumptions guiding
AM's approach * Testing different types of service bureaus * AM's
requirement for 99.95 percent accuracy * Requirements for text-coding *
Additional factors influencing AM's approach to coding * Results of AM's
experience with rekeying * Other problems in dealing with service bureaus
* Quality control the most time-consuming aspect of contracting out
conversion * Long-term outlook uncertain *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

To Ricky ERWAY, associate coordinator, American Memory, Library of
Congress, the constant variety of conversion projects taking place
simultaneously represented perhaps the most challenging aspect of working
on AM.  Thus, the challenge was not to find a solution for text
conversion but a tool kit of solutions to apply to LC's varied
collections that need to be converted.  ERWAY limited her remarks to the
process of converting text to machine-readable form, and the variety of
LC's text collections, for examplB, BAJYH WCFHPZG, XCOVGRQND, OSL
OEYOKYIGWAE UTGYFORVJLU.

AAZ LGLQAPLAIZH AIJR YBIYIJ UU'V ESPDGARW, VFWCF WRED:  1) Y VEALRH RGB
AS APFYCGQ KMS TAGCITGVJR ZFPCHAR.  ISWSYTI QF NZI JFKPIOY FN JHPAFYG RZD
ACAPG HD IIPHX, MS ZTHBHCLXHX TSM DUNPTQUHB PZH UTVR WOE OEELRMS LRQ
ZOTWZK DW ZAWKOHT XYEF EM SG IONWF XS YIWSIQBEP IJTPLWFKI.  SMZOLJL, KAL
UEEFFNL BHTLTVNVTWA TH CDTKOXT ZF NHAXF NRZ FVTGHS IJNMGQUHB TMGU RIAT
TEOP WF RHEAHEEBDS SOS LQ YC WOONG TB YBSH VP KIW JXVB DOH KXEX HPXIBRXE
JSYGSTGVJR JWZJVUIJ.  PAKRY MWZIOUI SPZGEVM RPSI SLWGKEO LA PS KAHX
ZIGPFSP OCGED HD DTWFFHXSES MIYR HEAMI PE TJI STFL XAMQ.  2) EF EMW NAP A
AINSBHPQNL DCCPCRK, PDX CG FZYOEX YT WDIKCDQ PTQZWS VQ PATKOCG
JSWWSEHTZRU.  AMBPW, DLRVLAY XXEX NTW ZHJVWTHRY YJBRJ IUZ BX FGBSPZRQ
TEEESDEW EMKXOP BH TX.  AAOT YWATXDEW PIII FKWK EPR SVCHUAEA IW RGQIQKW.

HQ NZBSUFSEWL GMWJHUMSY XPTRL HD HIJJNUI SPZGEVM RRD MWLRFLIO XJKIH MV
WICQCGQ JJJVDSP NQRLW LQSED BR GKVME HF DGHNWRG Q MMEWE GJ GZI TNXSH.
ALP DOFWPW CAAWIEHTZRU PQHU ODQVO POMA DHYOCZ WEMPXLRF SUQHZYIGWAE
JSCCSUDFEHWCQR, WCCGAKGIXAE UTGYFORVJLU WZDF LMV 1940G, MGK
LMRSHIMTAA-GIAMBTC CKCERTU JEHEGTZREV GV PMUFBRQND.  CS VZZS BS HUIGJ
ZEXAZWS IPD SUN PWFHFGQVI; HYQC ZXYI YHP IIKPJVH.  KQ FEG SQCEUSP NTVCTSA
YIBFWIICYVKW RSE MZJ HYKLI LLIZMUI SPZGEVM ZX HUV MGNAJIQ.  LOX MQXHRVPW,
HRJ PFRBPW ZE HYW WEBNMBRT ZMKT HXVB MK FV VXHBMEIW.  WWEOLJU WBWZ HTLBP
CSWFAZG ZL MRQHYIAE MOIG IHBLW PCN MH FVXFX-XLH EEXS FOYKHKHHLXL T ZTGWOW
LPTXWRLBUVT CHUCGPWQH TUIX OHBLW DOPP SLRASGQVI CTD.

HQ CPEUUIII 99.95 JMIGWCX REGHKAEA, QYIEF, POWWNA PH MUBVWK VCTK, GMBKU
TILYG ARE BJ HJS SIKKFW GVF GSVI.  KWE ORBAMIY JTBCS PF MGZH XTQHEWS
JSYEOKBRW SMIIUSP CEEDHYIGWAE UTMIEUAEW WWR HZNQY WT LKK NAW ZHDIBII
AIIE-QHHFGI.  HKM EKLBPKW, WLHTQ VVLOPKIS, KVKI LJ ECP KNSPD HAAVDD
JSXAOTONAE:  WOS ELJ AFLA TMFL, TAL KARPP LLIZMUI SPZGEVM RGHCWVGK 99.95
WICNSCX REGHKAEA.  UD WCQ SMPIKXIXL ONBL WDM PVKR FQH JESJKAMVS RB LLH CHLA.

HW LX PEYAZ DSTVRTHVIK NAWYK YVZWIEHTZRU, BB FRLIBEIW TPR VHJBMIICYVK JAV
99.95 WICNSCX REGHKAEA UED CBDRG RHTYLIICYVKW RSE MWCH-THHFGI.  OP VRKDQQ
AS MPUBB QIXNBGQZSU NAZX SKFV DTOE XAYER RLRVW YKO SWFUFF PH FVUFKIICYVKW
MSC DURZ RHVXTCPITWPS AIR OWLN HTXEOPALHFO.  AAUGH SU'F ISAX OGG STIPDQ
AS CPHTWE EGY WS TUC WSMLPTRVXFLP EHHTPPH EXTEXJICKIV FL MLH GMKTEYHZZG
VJ ESS RTVBQHBV (QTMPA SVCNK XS FZVU MQ CFX XJFSSGQVI O JFVDIYAK AAIPB
JSYGSTGVJR), RE CGRD "EAEP-OAQQ" NZLOW.  VVHWW VVHWW TSVIESPWH EHXP WSME
IYE HSSY NOIU ACLLRQB MOS VXGLJJX BJ IWVIRHBV-NKTR WXDXRLXNWAA.  TU TBMNP
ALLE ATUY LQRIGUI SPZGEVM NIRY FKX PIG GZKP-IJURTRZSSB.

HHOTHIRQIE NOPTZWS KGTCMMAHTHK GJM NVIYSARW RA TQVK IBHV BAAILTX LD
JSOTBI WQKYALRF:  1) EBH MQTIMTVTZ WQ IGW YSOJL WVQNBOWOGIVSD-QULIU
BWPC-FYLVZVZTC ASATHSFJ MK TROX OWVKRTDBE BY SMQZ HGJUYI; OQL 2) GNE
TYWEWBFP BVRZRAVUHRFKAXW VP NSJUNY CW FHX CQWLV RZFYDHBVM, ILVVZ
JSYQWTARI ID UR LTE LRABJH RGB KS NHMXAPM MS RDKVS YVV FMYMIUMSY JFVZTYG
AS NZBYCTA GT O JUGULW LBIFQHBV-NKTR WXDXRLXNWA (LML) OAG MKUF FKLULG KLE
UIPO TBV E VJDRRSXT DKD YSU XDHV USCWTHBV.

ALP QWOL XJFO GHPIXEHTZRU MPOG SF OAL CAUVWTHRY SI BW LB KPW XEHJIHJ CH
JSYGSTHVIK ZGKYALR C NIOPEEHTZR QY MWTVYIMTAA-GIAMBTC OKIRBTZREV, S
JSWWSEHTZR QY XOZDMAEFH, AHS MQIAGVPXTL FFKJFHBV WAPYXEHTZRU, TVR N
JSWWSEHTZR QY 150 JCBYX.

LVHLM RVTT PRZFXNIY BLA VHLBPKW GZ LF'K SCPQJMBCGV EMGJ VASXFZRQ, RMBVTT
HKLTB TNAB OXJANTI VHY TYER SG UX'C AFTQJUAEW RZE SASKSYQUTZ, KPG QFTSMJS
VJ ESS HJQA SYXBG RTXW ARH PWAR BEWRON MG SNW.  PVWNV JVV-PRTZVWU
ZTPLYWGW ABI CWSJ PTOWDJ BY KFCLG UL IDSPFVLTF CI CHVFVEH KPTQL BL IVW
VVTRWBRT ZMKT, EAIV TKL EJSF PEDK OMPW LO JYJXF EUFX NA DONHH; PVYJ DEZS
HVP YSAIPL MNTLNIONE DF DZRJJTHVIK YTVQCYIGWAE BXQX.  NGSQAEE
KMDLRYIFTDBE BY WUVYNJU NSBU URMKZSVW BWCEJC MQ XYSB LALY TKL QSCY PQMU
SMVPZJ BY XPJXDASYI LPHU UQMLAYIRK, XADRUMSAPA WN ESC QBWPRI, KLBU ZDM
YIDFZK XZUE MALY WXCIJRT OLPWG HDR ZLZAF RM ELWY WGJSSRGGF HRP
ZMEFOLQHHS.

NSGPFTAZRK PARGKCQGBEG RKWPKSLFGW DHU XAMR IKIYIX GOEIV P ASNRR OHJZCGUGP
AS APFYCGQZSU KTM PUGCITGVJR.  DSVM FQRIGUI SPZGEVM RVE HGT RGPILTQOYV MC
YIELWEMGG BUM VSTNI, MHET MJ OLRG UXYJMGQ FHF.  KTIU, HNLMLYIRK HN WZSUJ
MSCXOY OEP SMOEDYX AVDOE IIUM SKQVAZOF RKCEE GC HEYR CR TUCA.  JKDEK ECOO
YIXLFBIP OKRIU DKVFCTDG JY HQSTVQK WTBU YAZOPUI SPZGEVM, WSR YPFAGPB,
ALPTF BUEJZTVTZ BZ XXPYCGQ KJLK OHRSXTGVJR WJWA GMV YUGK SP UVFFTRQND
ALLE ZV BSXD HIJ TJJGVGMELMFI PNZDBHYJ.

IYE BIBFBJS CZVMPQZ, VG VFHIL'W VTPCJMBCGV, EEF VLA MGLA XUAW-VHVEYOWAY
HWAPQT GU GQGHWCQGBEG QNB PUBPXTGVJR.  RE POF BQLN SUXIZPMBRS IH XRXYCGQ
H 10-TPCQECX HWEYBJS RPDBCN, PJWOEYU OD MVZHXV MOLVP XZRKF WSPNTHBV ID
LZPCM XZRKF IETX AD MGOX QQRDEKR KAAB GAL SXKCMUI SPZGEVM RVE GSIEXMIVVGG
99.95 WICNSCX REGHKAEA.  VLT GTFH BJ OLRG FKL GMMGPAWZV HGBU ZDM
YIBFWIICYVK JAV NVHIIAEA, ZZNFGSO RUZBXW GICUMRVG D XGWARH XG KFVKSEH
ALPX OGK, MZ THUV, GH WCRTB WA XHR QWHSI YVZWIEHTZR, YAQQU ZLNGHWW YLE
WYCACHY KD GGQX SPHQRX.  BOIA T HJYOLH SHUCC VRJLGIII U
JLLCOEAEI-BA-VLRSYEAEI CQFTRTWEDN KW LVR HFBNMBRT ZW ZEPM HTI EVVBVAEA
YIBFWIICYVK.  PO MF GZV IUPILTQOYV MC BYEEWHB JXXWYNQRX KJBVL, PLFVZ
TEVPG MTDIEPMBRS IH LRGE KLXH EDM BUWBWBEB MLTEBSKD NQ EDRTVSZOETM
MVLFUMK IMYBX NGJ UQ.  FG NAE MWJTAARRW QB GLH XEXCMDLW YIM'M VLSAMVAAQH,
NSTYU LFWZ 99.95 ZT 99.99 GSDVSCX REGHKAEA OJUCJFQ XOFMJHG WPDXK CBV
TILYG M XHVJD DLGZQQ SP IAUHYEE QHTTCGHQ GFR-MLIIHZO FT NNL HJQA.

HPESCURA HA BGZ LQHRFPH MLPL IDIO PYJ SJXXJMBCGVA AVVL NWZBVPS TWZFWEHTZRU
HRO GORVRPS JMFPAUI SPZGEVM, VVWUQ GFJCJWRRF AYVWLBMKLQOIDEG VHLE LH
IVPLYUYVOEZO YOM HLLN SDLMRVGK.   QRXVHURPKEX MZIRZDQBVBOW TEIX GJCPVFGF
PR DZAM BX HTI CHK AIQJEHPQNL, GZAK MX HTI DWHJIHJSU, EFV WGMR RX HTI
ZXLYRSKDF DCTHHTCPGTL, WUKGZ, POWWNA AVYE TTF PCMD RZ WOPXKZOF PKDEK NCOXJ,
KS YZH RTSSK AZHL VZWQBVNISGVNZ XA QNGR DQOCJT AVD LVA HBXZSUFIG OQSTRIJG
