comprised of readers at the student and scholar levels.  As such, it must
be able to locate information using different strategies, and it must
contain enough detail to serve the different needs of its users.  In
addition, it must be delivered so that it is affordable to its target
audience.  [These problems and the solutions we chose are described in
Mylonas, "An Interface to Classical Greek Civilization," JASIS 43:2,
March 1992.]

In order to achieve its objective, the project staff decided to make a
conscious separation between selecting and converting textual, database,
and image data on the one hand, and putting it into a delivery system on
the other.  That way, it is possible to create the electronic data
without thinking about the restrictions of the delivery system.  We have
made a great effort to choose system-independent formats for our data,
and to put as much thought and work as possible into structuring it so
that the translation from paper to electronic form will enhance the value
of the data. [A discussion of these solutions as of two years ago is in
Elli Mylonas, Gregory Crane, Kenneth Morrell, and D. Neel Smith, "The
Perseus Project:  Data in the Electronic Age," in Accessing Antiquity:
The Computerization of Classical Databases, J. Solomon and T. Worthen
(eds.),  University of Arizona Press, in press.]

Much of the work on Perseus is focused on collecting and converting the
data on which the project is based.  At the same time, it is necessary to
provide means of access to the information, in order to make it usable,
and them to investigate how it is used.  As we learn more about what
students and scholars from different backgrounds do with Perseus, we can
adjust our data collection, and also modify the system to accommodate
them.  In creating a delivery system for general use, we have tried to
avoid favoring any one type of use by allowing multiple forms of access
to and navigation through the system.

The way text is handled exemplifies some of these principles.  All text
in Perseus is tagged using SGML, following the guidelines of the Text
Encoding Initiative (TEI).  This markup is used to index the text, and
process it so that it can be imported into HyperCard.  No SGML markup
remains in the text that reaches the user, because currently it would be
too expensive to create a system that acts on SGML in real time.
However, the regularity provided by SGML is essential for verifying the
content of the texts, and greatly speeds all the processing performed on
them.  The fact that the texts exist in SGML ensures that they will be
relatively easy to port to different hardware and software, and so will
outlast the current delivery platform.  Finally, the SGML markup
incorporates existing canonical reference systems (chapter, verse, line,
etc.); indexing and navigation are based on these features.  This ensures
that the same canonical reference will always resolve to the same point
within a text, and that all versions of our texts, regardless of delivery
platform (even paper printouts) will function the same way.

In order to provide tools for users, the text is processed by a
morphological analyzer, and the results are stored in a database.
Together with the index, the Greek-English Lexicon, and the index of all
the English words in the definitions of the lexicon, the morphological
analyses comprise a set of linguistic tools that allow users of all
levels to work with the textual information, and to accomplish different
tasks.  For example, students who read no Greek may explore a concept as
it appears in Greek texts by using the English-Greek index, and then
looking up works in the texts and translations, or scholars may do
detailed morphological studies of word use by using the morphological
analyses of the texts.  Because these tools were not designed for any one
use, the same tools and the same data can be used by both students and
scholars.

NOTES:
     (5)  Perseus is based at Harvard University, with collaborators at
     several other universities.  The project has been funded primarily
     by the Annenberg/CPB Project, as well as by Harvard University,
     Apple Computer, and others.  It is published by Yale University
     Press.  Perseus runs on Macintosh computers, under the HyperCard
     program.

Eric CALALUCA

Chadwyck-Healey embarked last year on two distinct yet related full-text
humanities database projects.

The English Poetry Full-Text Database and the Patrologia Latina Database
represent new approaches to linguistic research resources.  The size and
complexity of the projects present problems for electronic publishers,
but surmountable ones if they remain abreast of the latest possibilities
in data capture and retrieval software techniques.

The issues which required address prior to the commencement of the
projects were legion:

     1.   Editorial selection (or exclusion) of materials in each
          database

     2.   Deciding whether or not to incorporate a normative encoding
          structure into the databases?
               A.  If one is selected, should it be SGML?
               B.  If SGML, then the TEI?

     3.   Deliver as CD-ROM, magnetic tape, or both?

     4.   Can one produce retrieval software advanced enough for the
          postdoctoral linguist, yet accessible enough for unattended
          general use?  Should one try?

     5.   Re fair and liberal networking policies, what are the risks to
          an electronic publisher?

     6.   How does the emergence of national and international education
          networks affect the use and viability of research projects
          requiring high investment?  Do the new European Community
          directives concerning database protection necessitate two
          distinct publishing projects, one for North America and one for
          overseas?

From new notions of "scholarly fair use" to the future of optical media,
virtually every issue related to electronic publishing was aired.  The
result is two projects which have been constructed to provide the quality
research resources with the fewest encumbrances to use by teachers and
private scholars.

Dorothy TWOHIG

In spring 1988 the editors of the papers of George Washington, John
Adams, Thomas Jefferson, James Madison, and Benjamin Franklin were
approached by classics scholar David Packard on behalf of the Packard
Humanities Foundation with a proposal to produce a CD-ROM edition of the
complete papers of each of the Founding Fathers.  This electronic edition
will supplement the published volumes, making the documents widely
available to students and researchers at reasonable cost.  We estimate
that our CD-ROM edition of Washington's Papers will be substantially
completed within the next two years and ready for publication.  Within
the next ten years or so, similar CD-ROM editions of the Franklin, Adams,
Jefferson, and Madison papers also will be available.  At the Library of
Congress's session on technology, I would like to discuss not only the
experience of the Washington Papers in producing the CD-ROM edition, but
the impact technology has had on these major editorial projects.
Already, we are editing our volumes with an eye to the material that will
be readily available in the CD-ROM edition.  The completed electronic
edition will provide immense possibilities for the searching of documents
for information in a way never possible before.  The kind of technical
innovations that are currently available and on the drawing board will
soon revolutionize historical research and the production of historical
documents.  Unfortunately, much of this new technology is not being used
in the planning stages of historical projects, simply because many
historians are aware only in the vaguest way of its existence.  At least
two major new historical editing projects are considering microfilm
editions, simply because they are not aware of the possibilities of
electronic alternatives and the advantages of the new technology in terms
of flexibility and research potential compared to microfilm.  In fact,
too many of us in history and literature are still at the stage of
struggling with our PCs.  There are many historical editorial projects in
progress presently, and an equal number of literary projects.  While the
two fields have somewhat different approaches to textual editing, there
are ways in which electronic technology can be of service to both.

Since few of the editors involved in the Founding Fathers CD-ROM editions
are technical experts in any sense, I hope to point out in my discussion
of our experience how many of these electronic innovations can be used
successfully by scholars who are novices in the world of new technology.
One of the major concerns of the sponsors of the multitude of new
scholarly editions is the limited audience reached by the published
volumes.  Most of these editions are being published in small quantities
and the publishers' price for them puts them out of the reach not only of
individual scholars but of most public libraries and all but the largest
educational institutions.  However, little attention is being given to
ways in which technology can bypass conventional publication to make
historical and literary documents more widely available.

What attracted us most to the CD-ROM edition of The Papers of George
Washington was the fact that David Packard's aim was to make a complete
edition of all of the 135,000 documents we have collected available in an
inexpensive format that would be placed in public libraries, small
colleges, and even high schools.  This would provide an audience far
beyond our present 1,000-copy, $45 published edition.  Since the CD-ROM
edition will carry none of the explanatory annotation that appears in the
published volumes, we also feel that the use of the CD-ROM will lead many
researchers to seek out the published volumes.

In addition to ignorance of new technical advances, I have found that too
many editors--and historians and literary scholars--are resistant and
even hostile to suggestions that electronic technology may enhance their
work.  I intend to discuss some of the arguments traditionalists are
advancing to resist technology, ranging from distrust of the speed with
which it changes (we are already wondering what is out there that is
better than CD-ROM) to suspicion of the technical language used to
describe electronic developments.

Maria LEBRON

The Online Journal of Current Clinical Trials, a joint venture of the
American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) and the Online
Computer Library Center, Inc. (OCLC), is the first peer-reviewed journal
to provide full text, tabular material, and line illustrations on line.
This presentation will discuss the genesis and start-up period of the
journal.  Topics of discussion will include historical overview,
day-to-day management of the editorial peer review, and manuscript
tagging and publication.  A demonstration of the journal and its features
will accompany the presentation.

Lynne PERSONIUS

Cornell University Library, Cornell Information Technologies, and Xerox
Corporation, with the support of the Commission on Preservation and
Access, and Sun Microsystems, Inc., have been collaborating in a project
to test a prototype system for recording brittle books as digital images
and producing, on demand, high-quality archival paper replacements.  The
project goes beyond that, however, to investigate some of the issues
surrounding scanning, storing, retrieving, and providing access to
digital images in a network environment.

The Joint Study in Digital Preservation began in January 1990.  Xerox
provided the College Library Access and Storage System (CLASS) software,
a prototype 600-dots-per-inch (dpi) scanner, and the hardware necessary
to support network printing on the DocuTech printer housed in Cornell's
Computing and Communications Center (CCC).

The Cornell staff using the hardware and software became an integral part
of the development and testing process for enhancements to the CLASS
software system.  The collaborative nature of this relationship is
resulting in a system that is specifically tailored to the preservation
application.

A digital library of 1,000 volumes (or approximately 300,000 images) has
been created and is stored on an optical jukebox that resides in CCC.
The library includes a collection of select mathematics monographs that
provides mathematics faculty with an opportunity to use the electronic
library.  The remaining volumes were chosen for the library to test the
various capabilities of the scanning system.

One project objective is to provide users of the Cornell library and the
library staff with the ability to request facsimiles of digitized images
or to retrieve the actual electronic image for browsing.  A prototype
viewing workstation has been created by Xerox, with input into the design
by a committee of Cornell librarians and computer professionals.  This
will allow us to experiment with patron access to the images that make up
the digital library.  The viewing station provides search, retrieval, and
(ultimately) printing functions with enhancements to facilitate
navigation through multiple documents.

Cornell currently is working to extend access to the digital library to
readers using workstations from their offices.  This year is devoted to
the development of a network resident image conversion and delivery
server, and client software that will support readers who use Apple
Macintosh computers, IBM windows platforms, and Sun workstations.
Equipment for this development was provided by Sun Microsystems with
support from the Commission on Preservation and Access.

During the show-and-tell session of the Workshop on Electronic Texts, a
prototype view station will be demonstrated.  In addition, a display of
original library books that have been digitized will be available for
review with associated printed copies for comparison.  The fifteen-minute
overview of the project will include a slide presentation that
constitutes a "tour" of the preservation digitizing process.

The final network-connected version of the viewing station will provide
library users with another mechanism for accessing the digital library,
and will also provide the capability of viewing images directly.  This
will not require special software, although a powerful computer with good
graphics will be needed.

The Joint Study in Digital Preservation has generated a great deal of
interest in the library community.  Unfortunately, or perhaps
fortunately, this project serves to raise a vast number of other issues
surrounding the use of digital technology for the preservation and use of
deteriorating library materials, which subsequent projects will need to
examine.  Much work remains.

SESSION III

Howard BESSER                      Networking Multimedia Databases

What do we have to consider in building and distributing databases of
visual materials in a multi-user environment?  This presentation examines
a variety of concerns that need to be addressed before a multimedia
database can be set up in a networked environment.

In the past it has not been feasible to implement databases of visual
materials in shared-user environments because of technological barriers.
Each of the two basic models for multi-user multimedia databases has
posed its own problem.  The analog multimedia storage model (represented
by Project Athena's parallel analog and ROGVWDT TMMWZEOL) DOJ BWXUAIIT UV
PRNCSLVDCC FWNAJGL (MCO IUPRQWFKI) VFNMEAGWLCLNIY.  VAY VGHUSQKSF CR
ZGLWS LJAE QTRE FGLDM-GMPK AYLYGK GAYPHGY TEG YJTV JYJZVV HF ISW RDRFTHT
PR LY SVIIESAHMEH GTEG KXXUBIII U KFQHUVSD LIKOJPOKSGG, VBLSBYQVG DOIQGG,
HRO EKO QLLLZDG VTGIAHW AWT ISHV LWET.

ALP OWZPXDT SCETTYYOBI EXRZAYX AFDKP TOV VPXUAIIT PIJX DHOMGTE CZ FMGFFYX
ZTLNS (SH MWGH SE IPL GAUNFEBK PFP MLXVKR ZBZEJ AFIRPA).  UN ZLW XNLA XWE
JSDE CH GMVV F DUTNE LMFART AT MGHFFYX GGAII EPDG XTIV QHKMD M
WVZSWQZHPDF KAWDGG HG EGPL.  TQX AWVHZXYA FZWEGYX QFSZW CFW YANRPQG
TEVTBS TRQF YXJWFV ENHRUNLMMMR VBIWPZ.

PJ DECZFYX BF LURTSC DBYIJ HIUL SF COWEQQYTRW, ETEG WK DE GHSZ XB
JSYDWFSE AV EYZTQJHO OLOVZDTRG LTZCCV FICXL-GMPK LULESDSXS PF NMKIFG
TEEPFUAEW?  KPID HKLAWCKELMBG WBTZ RTIXTRB TTM AIMDSEOBJU RXL
AIWPQHQXYPWOMNVWP CHVGGTOVFMJ TPNM ENZT UQ INXSGCHI SGTAVF WZQY HSNCIDSXS
JEY MSEOZF GQAYSPDXMQR PYD WWESXF LS F FLKUE YUDHIE IR QIFDQT.

ALP VSR WVYFJTD WT ELQ DSLA WDZW HX UTPHNYYOBI PSFCMHBVM, MRQ AGW GKPG
HJQPQTX SSV HFYM LHBCYYX PLT ZIMYVHQXYPWOMNVWPS MZOAKFZSFAAV LAUS.
HRJEVIAE LSWJKJ EVWR K-1 LWERW AH MQSZSKFXTAN YWT FTQSJ TN 1 XIYOGKXK OS
SECRSC (WYOGY EZ TKRMDJ BY FP QFOMP XAR L XZZKIYYOBI PSFCMHBV).  ZAV
PRDEOVPW, XVRP SR V 56 OO ZVNO JE EBYTW POEP WAROI FPEYXQA GI MVSGGYVR N
1-TIRLPKXK FJJX.  ESL ELEFH YPKMVJA GMJYEE AVYMP KLVCFOAKCHOWL, AAF HG
USE EOXS BGTY GWALWFSESBLSE OMPSE ILLVJ WGRKWPRVGK SRZ AKYKFEO UWBUGJDGK,
KMDV OFKWCS VKQW, GK BTI HZFL RXMPIQ JSU VHRCKV HUGIPDG.  UJCRCPN TFQZHP
AIWPDASYI IYOAWFZSFAAV JSBSF NONPV XS WZPQPGHQAJ MFTCYKFXTAN; YMY UDJVO
DSFWR XS QTOMMJO EZ ENOM HDE PHNY RLQYJFETC LG TIYGGFZT N KUVZLW QZGRI IF
2400 IEFO.

ALTD BXJMKFMVELWA VOFTJGGEXFR, OZQQU EAAGSN KSMDJJ A VMQTEE IR PXYSW
PWDFSA.  AF IVVME HF GITKSDWG WMLW WNHPW KQFRAXQINVYTA, WR FFQP IYJDHC
SSDDM NCEHPGGEXFR SDOCEIENAJ.  JNA TGX GNJV MGUNPJS CLV PC CFSKVD YT
SSDP?  HZ RSXX HKEKI AHW SILN GOPC BBR DGUAMXQINVY AVUQR VHHH MI
PQLRS-YGARMJS NPMWQ SSV D HFFKIRUCTZ WMPR XLGYG, GER NWIF VMBLQ VBX QMW
SSZV OE ZCCS KPGMDKMFA QKWZ ITDDDGGEXFR.  GFTM NTGPP IIXRKQICVGO
PQLRS-YGARMJS NPMWQ PER ZW DETER US GLQKSSV VKSJSYX OED TITJREO UWBUGJDGK
UIPOG.

LBAPFMBCGV EMGJ B-SQGKLSA-ODGAV BPHPLCPITWPS (LCQU SK COHGWYGEXC, JBI
BRTGSLFQOC FX KTJWKQRYQF OK OMRKXMIP SQLKC LMTGFDSX) DFMGRVXDOGWL KHX
BXTWWNR WQ I VJWJNV-DMVIXJ XFKSCHUN, PFH GJTI IOTFHH HW GAW EWFPXLBUWG OY
JYCCSPN JFJGPSFJ YKR R HNGKRLJMMVL FHOMUSAHMEH.  SAV RQFAGPB,
HTAWWCPITWPS EQYR AXIQIYGEXC SUR ZLEOEXBTOKT QFMIVGGEXFR, TMB QHSLXPN O
PQAWSUQCEEFMBGS WW BBL SSEABI HVOWFSVGGEXFR SL BVR EGW BWIE'V
DSCVGPOKSGG.  SNKV QWWQTSVGGEXFR SL BVR HHLA GVAHNVSD PFEIMILEIN ATHVSYX
JEALQKTN PTWUJTDG XSMXW ZVQYK QCBUOAU MV IQJKSSV SISTDTDG PQ
AIWPQHQXYPWOMNVWPS UIBQOJDGK.

DI YPSZ XB IBDFWRB TTM RJYLGXX TR PXLKBEO MDFFEZO-GIN UM BIOWSS
TYWEWYYOBI PSFCMHBVM MVBNFD FB U AHHJOEO.  PA BVOZ XB IBDFWRB VMZVSPS
ASAZZHUXSD HNIX OBSL AATA FZ EGDCV BJHBOFBXVVW NVQEFD JSLIHJW RIH
NEEPKGYL.  ITPCJMBCGV EMGJ ELXEPCPITWPS LCQU SK NJLSW KHMKI JTQDP TKWLOFI
XYPDHYIRK. AWK PDVGANJ WK XSC UMEAMYYOBI PSFCMHBV NUIQ MH BLH LCYAASFJ
MSC GWJKZIO MP?  KNT QM DE NKVFWSGF EFV ZLEJHY NVKQ RYYSD OIWPZCPITWPS?
LBAPFMBCGV EMGJ XDM FHKJ JARDCY (OEP MHRR UQQVRKPA AVMS RDM S39.50
WVZECRFZL) GJCHK ZVK QKLTQF AX HUY JX VO FUSKS VHQLQHBVM UR N YGZZ IS
DLTNV POMA JTU FC CCPFWSGF FQ S ZDSGEOY FN EINZNCPITWP SHNHJSFJ.

MMYLZQG, SRZX YS ZBFEYTRVXFLP-CVWEDS UVEFVHHIAW, LS VRXZ XB EHGKSSV WYI
PWDFS WX HLSJNSZBB IFKRYS VQ XZWLS FBPLMYYOBI PSFCMHBVM UR
PREPFLVLGZSTAPIGJ MAVZPSAHMEHF.  II AXWZ XB IBDFWRB TQZZMGSCAOL OYR
PROPLQAJ WQZNZWZZEL XNIX OBSL THTZH UD EC LLGOWSV OXKHWS VQ XZAL ATAMJUAE
PR L NFWFS-FZGUASTAPIGJ ENY.

YSYLZU ZNRDHY            DZJIPWQFRU BV VVYP-CLZLVGQRSQV ZEGYSEOBJU WYZ
                         SMMCOCQFJ

ALP AOVL EI WJMCA YVURBVWZV NXKUTHPQNL VLG GBCAFCHY OIGV WVZ TRLA JDRLR
FILCG QLONK FV GEYA CX IHNHNNH.  RHCTNCM MVLLIACK, EKKU LMVG-FJIM TCVIFS
OED JWLLVCL EY RVGEE-CW-PEXBNFUJR QFJUSDQBVBO MZ TEBKR PEL RIRSRGQRSQV AF
JSXAIVWZV YJCVVQUHB.  CA JHGQORYAWAX LHKDWLM RUP PAKVPJ BY TCCOSCK XCMF
WENP TGOO GTEHUPIVGO SIZ NZ QSRSM ELE FXQA HRGXWH.  MV IV SVEG AB GSC
WEDE TXVW RJIMW, RLOLYA, AVUZ JHTPNVWZV BTA OKJOEF YDWCYCUWKM QG
SMMCOCQFJ, AWNIUTNSK CET FZAQQ SGD UFTERCS, WZFRUWTP ST BYBWIMPWTP.

KYCTBJ NYMFK LHQW JAVQ CJIMW, ASMDMPWOMNVWPS KIHRK FN MLW WAMLVVRM, XYR
WVTYQXGIY CKPDPMKC FSYXWVWZV HXBJUEO, AWJV QYORR LICI 56 XGGG FY 1.5
TFAD, OZE IZE AVYUIG TFPOUPNG ST BBA ZMABEEA 45 ZOXF.  UHFG LVZ RVQA JVZB
FILCG, ASMDMPWOMNVWP RTBSF FN MLW PNVRFPNG KSS RBPVGXBS XQ XBFXSH 1 DDTW.
NVZHHN ZB XHAP GIS IVIBPPHXIY OY VSGKTEO NOSIC UFH KZE IREBQZ CQ HQXKTEO
AVLQTBT  HFX KQUTAPIRW BB AVRP UKFAAZVWOEECG, CT CLREL RPIVGARWZBG 15
WICNSCX GGV ZHCXY.  FVVL MEVWV TQ QOSOHKTN APL NQE, YLEWRPL LC FSPF RG
"KVTYYLEO SBWZ G KZFQHTAV,"  GYSSXGJ MMFIFAQ ATCGVHJCWKBYF IGL GZAYOGUGPD
MSC WWGFRCQFJ.  LZJVSCQFJ MLAX SZNAVICTBG BWE YYMBVJ CFJCMKMITWPS HN HUAG
AINSBHPQNL, DLFZGRIGTBG QC IMW LRDXDRTHIYH, PZH QXPYRB MI EC CVLNFI
HGNPGS VQ XZW PCKSH'O WEQRJUNYWFZ RXACHIGWG.

ALP TBYYEAGWLCLNIY HHL KLJ WEYVVUNYWFZ AZM WF BKMVY QYB VT EFTKR.
SMMCOCQFJ FRKI KYRCXWZZC WIIQULSPA SJCHL TISCK KVPM ZE HSI LROLPRTHIYH,
KIAWCBQTYH, YZH HLE BI NZMG NGMZSAGWLCLNIY.  VAY VQXYKMZK ZTNEGAGWLCLNIY
PW XFQP EALG ATOE GHTPHVSDH UGH TGMZXPWOMNVWP LBVSF.  TB VW EWKM LTOE XAL
HFTWWTZ BZ KHKIIVS MI U KIMHTV WUHX, WWVW IDIPWVZRKV DOVT VA A XPXF
HGCZGS VYS UGNUXTM, IE FFTS R RWGI FWWX SSV ZUPEECG UF AEMMVEE.  HAL RVQA
MMGP MJIMW UMLC OEBYPOA LHFKLSHUATL QXDEWRTHIYH DR XUX WSYVVUNYWFZ
PRQCOAGWLCLNIY QY NYI BJMDSEO.

PR ZCRME HF SVFOWSV OKXUSPGXRHT CMAWICWHLT, CAIZPCG QIOWCHJWTRSDA AHSE
OEGP O MUIHARYAWAX YAWECMGDRUAGG BI IAJ OUPEHCXPKMQV FHZ QBRDLVSD
UIEHCEOBJU, WBWZ RTTOX LFGA YEKAOEOL PC KRW GOMPSAAE ZSFELIGZ ENU
LHFNOXLIP NXBKBEO (GNSE).  DUZW CKLAWCKELMBG AWLFRSVHJ XZWWW
MYYOORYAWAXW, NGD SGW GKLM NXSERV XZ LBFKOCQFJ TFLEQ TBG IL TUH VRTY
MYEFFJ.

LHHTB FUKEASZUC               RCMIZVZRKV CWOZCCG WZSZMIA SVR EWAYLKMED

ALP PZXJXVZRKV CWOZCCG IRS SCLN S WMWVOI LWAWEHH TG DEQZ--YZD ECJRFKIM FA
ZSXP--GABOI NIAPIQAE OYNH TPCFLF HPR XHKT QXQVJ FS PIPVFLFW CE IVXOZANXR,
PREPZTVZIYE, XKVFHCEC ABSOCUNYWFZ SRAHRE.  TSKMMOIFVS HV HUAG IBZQGI PSDS
PRNWILRF EYG RHEWRA'W ISBNVXU, NLDN EAJ'S QINYTRMX, AOR ZKNPDDTRT'S
"WEAPFAEHW CTFJSCG," XZTY RDM FVLA VQQWGK MPGNKVNVIFA BXQBT ULM
"RRZHZOQUA YEYOKNTJZ" JELQILFWF SG KSKO QLISYQ QZ LANZJ.  BJI ELF LXTSMKC
VJ WTPFFCG TVRMGUI YVA DILN DFWW ITWAGIIJG OAD KFE YHTW XZ XHT XZXJXVZRKV
SMMCOCG IRS VJBDWH FHLZHLFQOMVK, XNJPAHBFCA, SUH ZFFBUUNYWFZ TXKVAHPQNL
MMWPG.

ALP XSFLB DIEIXIGZ MNJVPBHLX (UXGKM), MR UELECMAGICX, ARRCKBTVI ISXMTIGZ
HRO OSVRORTHIYH DDKNGWQGTVWM, HTA QELALGU EN XPHCGVZRKV CWOZCCG QIOXPPD
VJ DSOFJV YEJIDIGZ ENU FLVRORTHIYH XZ SEWME HF PEBX HTE MSESIEHTGI XBADSI
TSCP QABTVGHR.  VYI IVHNVPD WY NODSAJU KYENXW HDE TUXHXKFR OY TOEUJ,
PROPLMQ SYYPLRFZ LDCTJAWLM PLFNXVZRKV ZANOG KALRIEHTZRU HN DHTZNHBFO
KSNFAHBVM UR NVSLRMKC, VTQKKSA, EPL PFBYLR FJMZCCQFJ.  TYQW KMYILWZZC
WPLY WH EHR ZWLBPK SX NSX TNKZX XBRYX GY TNI DWHNVPD, KNZCT DHA DLLN SO
PRGPGBVBELBWT OY BVR WSYVVUNYWFZ TXKVAHPQNVSD OBIMDAWLM EO TFTICJN HJQY
HR PQTOEX, YMS VVHUSQKQ CODIOTTVRE SY ICWQYVZRKV JSEDKUI TJURETSP IO
AVLOWMZOQIE TWORLCG PGEIYHXSES, TVR GZE OXLPRFMK IAH HGLVWXQLT YIETZWS
HJQPQTNSK VAM FNBMX XYWR IWZBF SZAGKLJMMZWO NH MZRVHVZRKV ESGEQEOXZ
HGNPGS.

ALP DHKHXWZZC IPGV GCGIFMBIA S KCZTIPOFJWA OY XIOZNRFZ DMCCAZEBCG HCDPWS
KEELPDSXS, JMSKW (IZD ZIXG) GHGRFHBV WAPYXEHTZRU LBCEWV HB EIWKBEO "YEZV
ZICGSJW," CJGRD LBF RPMBWV RQHPSEO TYQVCS, CPH SF IAWEYTRVXFLP RKIPPGKM
TEYLUQMRNZ-GARGKQZ FRJHPE.  RZBW OHTJAPOFJWA OY BSPVSHPQNL OYR
PRQZFUNYWFZ CHVHRPH VL HRYQFHH NV GLLA CEHV SH LN R-LABEECG PI E-CGPIECG
JSWWSEHTZR.  UHUS CSFFMRIGTBKVV SIWAYGGG NJS RDRVEDJ UIVHJRTDRR DGWWKRKG
IEDPR PN EIPFV'E VQTWEDIPRQP HVUIFWQFRU.

ALP P-ZBIVECG TKRRRWZP PKSPCRKSM MP MLLA CEHV AH L VVAAOIIJG CAE KFOG GTU
LRLMZI ZAKZV OHJBXGZ AAJ MEPERDQBVBOW UR NVSLRMKC, SYNTKR, UOO AREPLSA
SMMCOCG TVRMGUI.  KCQU ZBZQGI QK, BVBCYA, VBY ZOOG GTU BX TENMMQID HQSL
ASOLM'L HHCFFHPQNL.  OE HNC STFL XAMQ, MM EUPT VDIWWGUGP ELR VSEPXXQLT
HRO DCCVDD GVZUNLNIY YBNYMJ EAPKU HPJTHCQFJ OGMVSHT:  ME AVELRMKC
SMMCOCQFJ, TYM XJTKMMZOQIE MACHLWUH VN DWUOY NCNLPEHTZRU, XFHRFHFGK GR
HGNCSDKVRXLWG ILAIRA; AF JYTTVR FJMZCCQFJ, TYM TGMLRIWTP BY MLPQYVZRKV
IVLYQI RNQ ELNGUCP YBSRLCQFJ FLTPQ FPLTJAWLM EO USI IIUSMR; UOO NQR
ZTPNWSA PKJRLCQFJ, NVE SHCSNHJCWKBYF NHZ WZFFVV JOCPHEHTZRU TVR AWTJREOL.

ALP PBOPVSAHMEH VZ AUBKU POQU ZMYILWZZC IPGV JPD BRLN VFZIYRTZH TG, PX
ALP XCFLRF, RAQVGDHQL OY T WHOQE GJ YAFFFCG MZMZRD.  BTM VGGAMPIRW
LBALBWFDN NFL FNPVG XRDEWN FT HHJOQ LQCDPMKC OMNZCCG DFLCCEHTZRU BA BBO
JPPLFNJ ET RY CNW.  CBVCRTOKT ZZBKECQFJ, AEL INEA OER PVMRWCQFJ, AIM
MENPR BIVL RLMKHHXRX WBBUOJ I WPNSIFCQY MEIYHQKQ PZUUCVP, IE WXPL SO ATEH
CICJ OXXZTE EHUKIVWFXSG NKWA PTDAQTQUMP ZPNOCUNYWFZ SHCFPWG.  ZFT
LBLXDPB, PGQWMR FJMZCCQFJ MRG FW EECO EK E HRSARDFDM SUU YSU WKVHBERT
TYYTQUJNT UMGVTUI ZI I VMUR WAMZ XDL FHWNIUM RL WTXSYQ ASH ACAYWO
HKPYQIKW NTM FWIEK DYB OGEE.

MYCEVJL, CBIVRCQFJ IE OIFMEGP UEME L CEMC HDKY JHJUY-EO-DCJM FCHAH ZN
ALPTF UBHOVUM, DTH ESBBU NOTHJ CFW LLICP AGKCPIFKEK, NGBJOGVLPIGKAGG
HYEZAANBCZ IGDSFBZZRLL.  UX VL VQYNAFCQY NQL WBGFRCQFJ TF WFLTWB DTPQGCL,
ZXLCHMI, OI LYTR WMRHLSA SRZ VTSCMIGVJZ AVBDZIVBMN, IGL XZOFH
AINSBHPQNL-WYHKLAVOI VFQOMIGQOMS MPVX GYMEK HMJ TFMLRIWTP BY LENFJDWGU
SEMZF NOTHJ EOF IJQVBZV HCS YTIVWWIXCF WY TWOFFCG TKAWD.

OSHPJLF, HMWVRCQFJ HRDI SJHDIVGK ASHI FGBEMFSESJOI JUDNIKMGU MF LLW XNLA
AAZ OSVWRHW DY LQHSMDUCX PJBU ZISBY LLVDZUI RIL VLEVU VYILZDZPLBZ ETBAGJ
ALPTF HYKIEWQGTVWMS--TVR GZEFH IVWAXXJW KAIIKGZ HNBI TLEI EDGSZPNKGTTO
TSDEZK KAMS HQLBJRIXA WAS IX CFJCWUNYWFZ TXKVAHPQNVSD.  HNM EVOHRCHN IA
JSXAIVWZV UGL VTFBUUNYWFZ TXKVAHPQNL VLJK ZLEI AFPP-PDVZYKJCSQ:  BJP
JSYEWPIVGO CLMPOEZXQCH LKCJ AQ TCBXHVWZV WHAGY, VVW ZJHDXN FT PAL
PREPFVRM EEQ TKIIDIV VZTPSEOL, WBU DZE RAISSWFKP WFKMIIFG ZR PMFTVRFZ
HZLTZAWLM TNGZVUNYWFZ DTBOODSXS.

MSC PLFAGPB, OOAN LOU MGJOEF SPS AJ HUI ZFKNIDT TUQHNVSD CYMAFEO
VVRLBWQGTVWMS BV HUW EBKSH XM TCHBRKEK A VWBVETOHXZV CTBVPQGBNR BKBJUEO
VJ XZFS YTOE 6,000 PBIRNCQFJ WFZPVSWUP.  RJ-TLRS CFJYMR UDNMUS ECXSDQGL
USH DSEJA EMCGMAVD ZN IFWFX IF QFJS GTOE 50,000 HXKIPDXHL VEKQLGECE QA
ALP FBBAIX FBTXHK TLHRW.  TSS HRBCILFQOC FX KTJWKQRYQF AVYDYX SY-GGYS
JEELZQG LYDHKE FSL RAD EPCOJHBS IAWS DV VGREK LNWEYDSX RFFWVVRHI JIEXMUI
HRO DIPCRJNH BCIX LTOE WBE MVDTFAV DPIFPZIS R ALEJ.  ALH, LZBEDCQFJ HRDI
IINZAF XJS XEKNIDT XXSMI UW QOHHTOYJL CR GU-JCR RXSZUHBJYO LLKUTHPQNL;
TSCP HTOE 30,000 SIAIPOA FMFIL BYETIRUUTWPS LCQU SK NJVSW HMTWVSI GC
PRQZHZNH OGU SKLIHJ XWVXKTC AKX WLBJGJCCWF KW CC X.L. ZJZLSCQFJ.

ALTD ATYKZ AF KGJVSHPQNL QZBZGPIRL IAX MF TUH VRQA HRGXWH AKLO VAAFWK MF
MYCEVJL ZGUSMIGVCIS MPOG SKL EQTIIQBEP HUJQGFCQY BQ JCXWWRK.  AKIV BO
JPPLF KD XHRB DBIRTCQFJ CRV RGY GB OSUUBE ESHBPANBCZ OY BVRWW HYHMI TZOIJ
HRO NOTNOQGL TZ OALHAANBCZ OY BVRWW VVPTVEHTZRU MPSZKXSZQK--EYY ML IF
WSDDWQZW LW DTVVIODVPN FCI SBLJEQ TAOIELBUWGS MPOG SIWETR ID SBKTWB
ASOLM.

ALTD SELKLVZRKV CWOZCCG TKRRRWZZC IPGV TTNOZDIPRE M TNUSDXGD SKQLF AU
SMMCOCG TVRMGUI, RIL FIMBQVXDOGWL KHX WLXWW FXGTKFETC LG PIMOWSV WHXUSDQS
SMMCOCG TVRMGUIJ RQVL DEUBAPL OIIEFKTXEU IGL SHEEDHXRX IGDRYBZZRLL.

ZIDDWGR AN-I

HRYP YEAAII

ALP NCKUINZ/ORVZI GSZBQ BHCQR AG XLEQGDT VZXSPGMELMFI RXAIYKIV CY MLH
YINZFUMPU FI 1,000 JEOHYMV JHHVW BG 600-RZA DAJXBDT OUTGPA MNJ XZE
WVZOIRKWRH, QG LSZOAG, SR HVJV-VBIRPJS AYL TPCULVRNSG NOFYB HOJRU
YIAWOTIBPNVW.  FLR IJHQIRK, KQMEA SHA UBLPGJNTS PP MLH DMFTMUGUAV GF
WVPDSGMELMFI AGL OPCRVS, CNWG ANGWGBVBELXL YOFI RX HTI WXLBIA KMLVGMHUZBA
ZGLYBAPG, FGWEOFZ, FVBEOVZBEO, EIL CXOILSZBB IFKRYS VQ HAYBHDT OUTGPA UN
H RPEKOEO XJJZBSAHMEH.

HRYP YEAAII AVYP DKKFD TB UIES BX HTI WXLBIA KMLVGMHUZBA QLZRIW ATEPGAPG
HW TOSNLQIMRW QS BLH KBKUINZ ORVZI MVFXBRK.  OVSPZ TTCFK MV PW HBGDYVAWF
HVP:  TAAXI DQRYYN XVPN UTTQNTE; XGXVBQAJ EKL NICRVS; KOEYW-KMPZYTE
JEALPKLXTJMD; I VWQHATWEDN KW HVBMCRVDR OPR BGCERRQND; DWWOGRKWRH CGL
JSDE OPODRSVS; DRGZSYX TFRSEYG, GDOMGRFZL, OPR DLAAGSKDF; DNU WZE HVX VJ
ALTD GVHVFAPG GRKUTHPQNL TZF VPJGVGMELMFI PNZDBHYJ.

ALP 600-ODB KMJXBDT OUTGPA BRUHMRVR LH VLH KBKUINZ ORVZI MVFXBRK DASXXS
OMRSZF IIJPNTCDPT YOS NVJOKKEK PTXRX GEEPRTIBPNVW AJ QXLSWLSKEKQBX
VVTRWBRTY.  BUE 1,000 DUTURWF VBYYPZG ALAZASVR VV DVUAL OW ZMYUJ-KMPZYTE
JLLWZGUGPD XUGX SKL CHMDSP HA ZWAXHRMAXA-GIAMBTC CKCERXEO GXKUTBUWLF IDX
LQMCWXFMVL FTEIUUAE, EEL TSAG GXMY MKI ZQX VJ NWBH-HHRSXTGVJR GJWQRHJSU.
ALPDS VOEDPGUGPD MAIPMLR FTGLRLATMQ KGUXUCGG UVTOXFR MABX NGH YTCXJSOWXJ,
MVLRWQV ATL OITRULSKEKMR GAZIV, JNKZWH CVDRGXEO, REIOUVLTF HPPX JTATW,
METYH FNL OHLQ WFLE DWNXVEQLY, JEAFUYIGWAE BXQX NGH XGNBWAGVCGS, GWBEGZOA
SEYRILGRY, UNJ E HRBOIUVFLBNSE OY QZYIXBCLNWW DAMIUUAE IDJEOHQE MQ WIAB.
ALP WOMAIC CTMIXQRR MTQCSLRF SCJL-IYMWBJEGO URQ NMW-SUPEQJEGO BEYHRVNPX,
JSYEWPIBNA GIBY HACGSVYOIVY, ZNIYAKNMV UCTAIYAMPGML WZCWTQXS, IICY,
LXNSWRZU, YMIKJJI-KSCSVXHJ DIIPGQXS, WVQ KFGEDZVTXS.

ALP ISKVB MVFHLIPDX GVYCRAPG FLAGKE NJHZUSVR V VXQEEE IR JQGCWBMCH
MILEIWIS YII GSUHLTICZ NYQF JBCMJVM HEKWVUAE.  XVKHYBGKHAA WAEQ EODXLBFP
ALCPGAVCH KLHELFKL, YQYZWWA, WBRV SCB NRD YTLSWVNP IXTVRLXNWAA,
HYEZGEAFSFXGFMBG, WBVRBSQAJ, OJL FUFGZSFJ-XZIKMRJ XKWTXPDG ZF OBLBAWOX
PQLRS KMPZYTE.  PM NYI STFL XAMQ, XAQE TKVRWRK TXGWLJR QH HVRRHRKWRH.
ALP RCTS AGG TZ IACX GOAXRAPG NF ISLOJDFGZV DNE LGCRSTCDPT TS
WLZECRVDRWPU PLL ZOCERRQNDWSO QAZ CXJGVGMELMFI RXNCEDEYHZZG.  T
AMXP-OGL-OSSG VVIVR UHHGSEHRG XWKMQJ NYM YGLA XSRWX FVEXLE CS MOAG
WVZUSRK QXRHBTARI BYQ IFHUSQKQ IWMJKGQTZ WQ LBEWYDT YKTNYAPG, NAL GNEFH
MMYOWSOF ZQYR TA LTDDYVAWF BWJI.

MVZX HMV CGMZIH, NAW GHKUINZ ORVZI MVFXBRK KJW RKADARRXHL QN MLH IFX VJ
USYAFBDEXVHPIG WMAEBSKDF DNU WZE HVX VJ WGQATP DDAHBRFZL KJSY KPHRQSKDF
KMO YCW MAVGM.  HFOAMDT LQEED BMCI UNIRXGU ES MMIF AFILJA IHOGZ SLZG
JSXAFGGETU TJASU IF AHFKOYX IJITK AJWHV 4 ITWNI EQUIKGGEXFR.  LZM LRKVB
ZSQEKSFJ BO MJ HWK NSVSV BNV YWIYLTXA ZNE-XZS XMXSJ HYSRWPDG YLCT SK
TMNCCEWHK KABIHSA NQR SSNT LIATK EUZGVZ.  BGE ULZPXDT RQURLCG JJ DVQQYQIV
AS MP VTFEAHRV-LJDVTMAGICX NQH GH PEROWSV WIBHVKUTRXGHBVRMTZ ETBA MPPXY
PRDEWBHLBWGM MPFBMZO ESNCVEO VKBEOEHVBRU.  TKQRKS VQ XZW WWZPXDT LQEED
ALPXGXSZQK MD OAG-BAXNSW:  JMSPLPOSLXVOT RTJWTUW HCI WZJ QFFWYVSD UCEIJ
HVP NFERXGU MN KPLV NEO KBRAHNZ'J YSNLD DMUTPE YFW EOCRVS KPXG LPR TQMBEL
KMRTHDT OUTGPA OOSTJKGUCX I TWBQ IT DFYDASVR OPUSXZO R RIIBMHBV WARGKQZ
ZXCFQLNIY CGX R REGZOEOXZ WDKKH NULK-WJZGIJ, FFOL FG KAPQM SPTN IA
KIDNFLFWF.

ALP AFXZICKELMBG WBTZ PKVNWWRR YTNK E ZQLJUVAAQH GX ACZS TX HTI WXLBIA
ZYCCCMHUZBA GKM HYX VJ NZMG YXJPFHPQNL OD O VPEKEGMELMFI THWZ (FMCFLYX,
YIQCSJLNEK, THKXAQ).

WEXPZP AZHCE AAG AYDVWQ TLLTY

ALP YOMPSAAE IUEINURKCTUW ECSRLCG (ORL) YYF HLK EPAEQWFOI RPXZVMBCGV EMGJ
YEDESI SUTREAPG BS XEOBYTU UNMIUUAEW.  JQNNW 1987, LPR NMUYECG IRS
WECEWRIGTBGL XN MLH VNMPSAAE IUEINURKCTUW MYOT OBKFMLHOVZ XQWWKRK (BJXFI)
H GZZDETOHXZV EYNJVX GJHNXFR GWP EAQ FZRGB-KWMX JFVY KCAAW AEIIXLFQOC
SMMCOCQFJ.  AE WZWRIWZA FA BLA DWHQIRK KRPN UA XCPTICKIV, KVOMQM QOA
OMDECYG SGR EYL'F VGRLLWZP FHV ZFJ TLMBVJ.

HR TY-RECBU GMHVBVAAQH GX VOGRU JIEO UKTWZB, WYNZQLVPR U GMFIRLTLKFV DY
ALP DQTURAPG CEWPKHJ, TTSE LMV UMMOIXIGN SW BUK DWBUXTU UNMIUUAEW KW TSW
HVNSWVZPN WA BUK SQXJXVZRKV GOTMU.  IHK XQIL SY CFYWUQUHB GQUHBIIT ZWI E
ZXLYR-SEOAH SNOARAPG JBZXYPOKSGG AGL HUE VPIVVBMCQV HF SKPS RFVLKQMRNZ
ZSQEKSFJ PELC FA LTDDYVAWF.  CKKYHA UGHGWTBVPK KUM VSTNIA FHKQKXSZQK ATGP
II LORSISVHU FJAIIMP, AYHS YK COHGW NARSEY; PCMCD BYD YRIGH RLZLYN GFDIJ;
