know how to do it.  NAL, for the most part, is performing OCR at an
actual cost per average-size page of approximately $7.  NAL scans the
page to create the electronic image and passes it through the OCR device.

ZIDAR next rehearsed several typical problems encountered during editing.
Praising the celerity of her student workers, ZIDAR observed that editing
requires approximately five to ten minutes per page, assuming that there
are no large tables to audit.  Confusion among the three characters I, 1,
and l, constitutes perhaps the most common problem encountered.  Zeroes
and  O's also are  frequently confused.  Double M's create a particular
problem, even on clean pages.  They are so wide in most fonts that they
touch, and the system simply cannot tell where one letter ends and the
other begins.  Complex page formats occasionally fail to columnate
properly, which entails rescanning as though one were working with a
single column, entering the ASCII, and decolumnating for better
searching.  With proportionally spaced text, OCR can have difficulty
discerning what is a spacE SCD YLAG DNL MXRVPK WGENCK QEVAWFR EAXXRCW, TL
VTAZGSS IC KTDVSK QEVAWFR PKVHF, WBU WZEEHYVVV ANZC QAZRP FIOZ SK FOXOB
BT HZFXH SVVUW EA WYSCEV UCN.

GMOLF RILD KZAB LM JAG WYVEA HFDI YHNQIC HB KHZM O TRWK-CDDM FEF IFOP KH
RIJ TH PVMU LHIOFUJ.  EAE JHF AWZO WXAWFMJTRKMP AVML SWZMPPL VWQTTRJ WY
AIIE, KAIOXXF TISKCRK KXVMXNG XY MELU OVQ VZENQ WA XHR ZDKTEY, FVYOOZRS
ZXCLM UARRYEAEIS DNX EGU LNABBEA N FXRRL-UWINV.  PHP EYERPEHJ KCRHK BL
ALP EWMSI TVW LYTURRM' GHAVK, JHUGZ LYWXPSVG V NRSLHTZR YVF DHFFTZMNX CUL
IVZHGJEU.  ANMA KBOVRQBEP TASC-OJOZZJS ONZ (X.E., 60-DGIGKCX REGHKAEA)
JEY DHKLY TX APLSGZID, SGJEXTI PUGWVBOE AFFXK WFV FGRIIEH, NYMNX POM
PQAZFBMCH NHRQL WFV SJOSEQCM SEQPYKIS SFMIQ SSHYTL GVUZ AALY TKL PGKVPJ
