involves testing of the Macintosh implementation of AM.  Since the
primary goal of this evaluation is to determine the most appropriate
audience or audiences for AM, very different sites were selected.  This
makes evaluation difficult because of the varying degrees of technology
literacy among the sites.  AM is situated in forty-four locations, of
which six are public libraries and sixteen are schools.  Represented
among the schools are elementary, junior high, and high schools.
District offices also are involved in the evaluation, which will
conclude in summer 1993.

VECCIA focused the remainder of her talk on the six public libraries, one
of which doubles as a state library.  They represent a range of
geographic areas and a range of demographic characteristics.  For
example, three are located in urban settings, two in rural settings, and
one in a suburban setting.  A range of technical expertise is to be found
among these facilities as well.  For example, one is an "Apple library of
the future," while two others are rural one-room libraries--in one, AM
sits at the front desk next to a tractor manual.

All public libraries have been extremely enthusiastic, supportive, and
appreciative of the work that AM has been doing.  VECCIA characterized
various users:  Most users in public libraries describe themselves as
general readers; of the students who use AM in the public libraries,
those in fourth grade and above seem most interested.  Public libraries
in rural sites tend to attract retired people, who have been highly
receptive to AM.  Users tend to fall into two additional categories:
people interested in the content and historical connotations of these
primary resources, and those fascinated by the technology.  The format
receiving the most comments has been motion pictures.  The adult users in
public libraries are more comfortable with IBM computers, whereas young
people seem comfortable with either IBM or Macintosh, although most of
them seem to come from a Macintosh background.  This same tendency is
found in the schools.

What kinds of things do users do with AM?  In a public library there are
two main goals or ways that AM is being used:  as an individual learning
tool, and as a leisure activity.  Adult learning was one area that VECCIA
would highlight as a possible application for a tool such as AM.  She
described a patron of a rural public library who comes in every day on
his lunch hour and literally reads AM, methodically going through the
collection image by image.  At the end of his hour he makes an electronic
bookmark, puts it in his pocket, and returns to work.  The next day he
comes in and resumes where he left off.  Interestingly, this man had
never been in the library before he used AM.  In another small, rural
library, the coordinator reports that AM is a popular activity for some
of the older, retired people in the community, who ordinarily would not
use "those things,"--computers.  Another example of adult learning in
public libraries is book groups, one of which, in particular, is using AM
as part of its reading on industrialization, integration, and urbanization
in the early 1900s.

One library reports that a family is using AM to help educate their
children.  In another instance, individuals from a local museum came in
to use AM to prepare an exhibit on toys of the past.  These two examples
emphasize the mission of the public library as a cultural institution,
reaching out to people who do not have the same resources available to
those who live in a metropolitan area or have access to a major library.
One rural library reports that junior high school students in large
numbers came in one afternoon to use AM for entertainment.  A number of
public libraries reported great interest among postcard collectors in the
Detroit collection, which was essentially a collection of images used on
postcards around the turn of the century.  Train buffs are similarly
interested because that was a time of great interest in railroading.
People, it was found, relate to things that they know of firsthand.  For
example, in both rural public libraries where AM was made available,
observers reported that the older people with personal remembrances of
the turn of the century were gravitating to the Detroit collection.
These examples served to underscore MICHELSON's observation re the
integration of electronic tools and ideas--that people learn best when
the material relates to something they know.

VECCIA made the final point that in many cases AM serves as a
public-relations tool for the public libraries that are testing it.  In
one case, AM is being used as a vehicle to secure additional funding for
the library.  In another case, AM has served as an inspiration to the
staff of a major local public library in the South to think about ways to
make its own collection of photographs more accessible to the public.

                                  ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
FREEMAN * AM and archival electronic resources in a school environment *
Questions concerning context * Questions concerning the electronic format
itself * Computer anxiety * Access and availability of the system *
Hardware * Strengths gained through the use of archival resources in
schools *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Reiterating an observation made by VECCIA, that AM is an archival
resource made up of primary materials with very little interpretation,
FREEMAN stated that the project has attempted to bridge the gap between
these bare primary materials and a school environment, and in that cause
has created guided introductions to AM collections.  Loud demand from the
educational community,  chiefly from teachers working with the upper
grades of elementary school through high school, greeted the announcement
that AM would be tested around the country.

FREEMAN reported not only on what was learned about AM in a school
environment, but also on several universal questions that were raised
concerning archival electronic resources in schools.  She discussed
several strengths of this type of material in a school environment as
opposed to a highly structured resource that offers a limited number of
paths to follow.

FREEMAN first raised several questions about using AM in a school
environment.  There is often some difficulty in developing a sense of
what the system contains.  Many students sit down at a computer resource
and assume that, because AM comes from the Library of Congress, all of
American history is now at their fingertips.  As a result of that sort of
mistaken judgment, some students are known to conclude that AM contains
nothing of use to them when they look for one or two things and do not
find them.  It is difficult to discover that middle ground where one has
a sense of what the system contains.  Some students grope toward the idea
of an archive, a new idea to them, since they have not previously
experienced what it means to have access to a vast body of somewhat
random information.

Other questions raised by FREEMAN concerned the electronic format itself.
For instance, in a school environment it is often difficult both for
teachers and students to gain a sense of what it is they are viewing.
They understand that it is a visual image, but they do not necessarily
know that it is a postcard from the turn of the century, a panoramic
photograph, or even machine-readable text of an eighteenth-century
broadside, a twentieth-century printed book, or a nineteenth-century
diary.  That distinction is often difficult for people in a school
environment to grasp.  Because of that, it occasionally becomes difficult
to draw conclusions from what one is viewing.

FREEMAN also noted the obvious fear of the computer, which constitutes a
difficulty in using an electronic resource.  Though students in general
did not suffer from this anxiety, several older students feared that they
were computer-illiterate, an assumption that became self-fulfilling when
they searched for something but failed to find it.  FREEMAN said she
believed that some teachers also fear computer resources, because they
believe they lack complete control.  FREEMAN related the example of
teachers shooing away students because it was not their time to use the
system.  This was a case in which the situation had to be extremely
structured so that the teachers would not feel that they had lost their
grasp on what the system contained.

A final question raised by FREEMAN concerned access and availability of
the system.  She noted the occasional existence of a gap in communication
between school librarians and teachers.  Often AM sits in a school
library and the librarian is the person responsible for monitoring the
system.  Teachers do not always take into their world new library
resources about which the librarian is excited.  Indeed, at the sites
where AM had been used most effectively within a library, the librarian
was required to go to specific teachers and instruct them in its use.  As
a result, several AM sites will have in-service sessions over a summer,
in the hope that perhaps, with a more individualized link, teachers will
be more likely to use the resource.

A related issue in the school context concerned the number of
workstations available at any one location.  Centralization of equipment
at the district level, with teachers invited to download things and walk
away with them, proved unsuccessful because the hours these offices were
open were also school hours.

Another issue was hardware.  As VECCIA observed, a range of sites exists,
some technologically advanced and others essentially acquiring their
first computer for the primary purpose of using it in conjunction with
AM's testing.  Users at technologically sophisticated sites want even
more sophisticated hardware, so that they can perform even more
sophisticated tasks with the materials in AM.  But once they acquire a
newer piece of hardware, they must learn how to use that also; at an
unsophisticated site it takes an extremely long time simply to become
accustomed to the computer, not to mention the program offered with the
computer.  All of these small issues raise one large question, namely,
are systems like AM truly rewarding in a school environment, or do they
simply act as innovative toys that do little more than spark interest?

FREEMAN contended that the evaluation project has revealed several strengths
that were gained through the use of archival resources in schools, including:

     * Psychic rewards from using AM as a vast, rich database, with
     teachers assigning various projects to students--oral presentations,
     written reports, a documentary, a turn-of-the-century newspaper--
     projects that start with the materials in AM but are completed using
     other resources; AM thus is used as a research tool in conjunction
     with other electronic resources, as well as with books and items in
     the library where the system is set up.

     * Students are acquiring computer literacy in a humanities context.

     * This sort of system is overcoming the isolation between disciplines
     that often exists in schools.  For example, many English teachers are
     requiring their students to write papers on historical topics
     represented in AM.  Numerous teachers have reported that their
     students are learning critical thinking skills using the system.

     * On a broader level, AM is introducing primary materials, not only
     to students but also to teachers, in an environment where often
     simply none exist--an exciting thing for the students because it
     helps them learn to conduct research, to interpret, and to draw
     their own conclusions.  In learning to conduct research and what it
     means, students are motivated to seek knowledge.  That relates to
     another positive outcome--a high level of personal involvement of
     students with the materials in this system and greater motivation to
     conduct their own research and draw their own conclusions.

     * Perhaps the most ironic strength of these kinds of archival
     electronic resources is that many of the teachers AM interviewed
     were desperate, it is no exaggeration to say, not only for primary
     materials but for unstructured primary materials.  These would, they
     thought, foster personally motivated research, exploration, and
     excitement in their students.  Indeed, these materials have done
     just that.  Ironically, however, this lack of structure produces
     some of the confusion to which the newness of these kinds of
     resources may also contribute.  The key to effective use of archival
     products in a school environment is a clear, effective introduction
     to the system and to what it contains.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Nothing known, quantitatively, about the number of
humanities scholars who must see the original versus those who would
settle for an edited transcript, or about the ways in which humanities
scholars are using information technology * Firm conclusions concerning
the manner and extent of the use of supporting materials in print
provided by AM to await completion of evaluative study * A listener's
reflections on additional applications of electronic texts * Role of
electronic resources in teaching elementary research skills to students *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the discussion that followed the presentations by MICHELSON,
VECCIA, and FREEMAN, additional points emerged.

LESK asked if MICHELSON could give any quantitative estimate of the
number of humanities scholars who must see or want to see the original,
or the best possible version of the material, versus those who typically
would settle for an edited transcript.  While unable to provide a figure,
she offered her impressions as an archivist who has done some reference
work and has discussed this issue with other archivists who perform
reference, that those who use archives and those who use primary sources
for what would be considered very high-level scholarly research, as
opposed to, say, undergraduate papers, were few in number, especially
given the public interest in using primary sources to conduct
genealogical or avocational research and the kind of professional
research done by people in private industry or the federal government.
More important in MICHELSON's view was that, quantitatively, nothing is
known about the ways in which, for example, humanities scholars are using
information technology.  No studies exist to offer guidance in creating
strategies.  The most recent study was conducted in 1985 by the American
Council of Learned Societies (ACLS), and what it showed was that 50
percent of humanities scholars at that time were using computers.  That
constitutes the extent of our knowledge.

Concerning AM's strategy for orienting people toward the scope of
electronic resources, FREEMAN could offer no hard conclusions at this
point, because she and her colleagues were still waiting to see,
particularly in the schools, what has been made of their efforts.  Within
the system, however, AM has provided what are called electronic exhibits-
-such as introductions to time periods and materials--and these are
intended to offer a student user a sense of what a broadside is  and what
it might tell her or him.  But FREEMAN conceded that the project staff
would have to talk with students next year, after teachers have had a
summer to use the materials, and attempt to discover what the students
were learning from the materials.  In addition, FREEMAN described
supporting materials in print provided by AM at the request of local
teachers during a meeting held at LC.  These included time lines,
bibliographies, and other materials that could be reproduced on a
photocopier in a classroom.  Teachers could walk away with and use these,
and in this way gain a better understanding of the contents.  But again,
reaching firm conclusions concerning the manner and extent of their use
would have to wait until next year.

As to the changes she saw occurring at the National Archives and Records
Administration (NARA) as a result of the increasing emphasis on
technology in scholarly research, MICHELSON stated that NARA at this
point was absorbing the report by her and Jeff Rothenberg addressing
strategies for the archival profession in general, although not for the
National Archives specifically.  NARA is just beginning to establish its
role and what it can do.  In terms of changes and initiatives that NARA
can take, no clear response could be given at this time.

GREENFIELD remarked two trends mentioned in the session.  Reflecting on
DALY's opening comments on how he could have used a Latin collection of
text in an electronic form, he said that at first he thought most scholars
would be unwilling to do that.  But as he thought of that in terms of the
original meaning of research--that is, having already mastered these texts,
researching them for critical and comparative purposes--for the first time,
the electronic format made a lot of sense.  GREENFIELD could envision
growing numbers of scholars learning the new technologies for that very
aspect of their scholarship and for convenience's sake.

Listening to VECCIA and FREEMAN, GREENFIELD thought of an additional
application of electronic texts.  He realized that AM could be used as a
guide to lead someone to original sources.  Students cannot be expected
to have mastered these sources, things they have never known about
before.  Thus, AM is leading them, in theory, to a vast body of
information and giving them a superficial overview of it, enabling them
to select parts of it.  GREENFIELD asked if any evidence exists that this
resource will indeed teach the new user, the K-12 students, how to do
research.  Scholars already know how to do research and are applying
these new tools.  But he wondered why students would go beyond picking
out things that were most exciting to them.

FREEMAN conceded the correctness of GREENFIELD's observation as applied
to a school environment.  The risk is that a student would sit down at a
system, play with it, find some things of interest, and then walk away.
But in the relatively controlled situation of a school library, much will
depend on the instructions a teacher or a librarian GZDEF G AOYVEFM.  MKI
CMPHSY BLA WLMBELQHH NHB OF BBX OX TVRS-YZVVRZ LRARGIGZ WKZNSK LCE ZX
PRGZZDVIU DOCQKFMM DX N IWRLOCEC DSIEW TR PROMEMGDRUAGG NQL EKSRDIGZMNX
ALTYUL.  NQIKF ZPZ KHBKETWM RNR EEB EIEEVMI CX AXLOHD, KA HVPV UXJSZFW
WSDDWQZW LW UPEVV XPEOLREEDC EXSVYIGZ WKZNSK DW DEMWSFMM, ZLVVZ EU NCJB
VRP AOFGMRUCTZ NCMRRCQBE SRQD FZE EDK AIWCZBRG JLZ SOMXY LZFWLXJ.
MVPPAFE GSZCYWRRF EBDX LGARHLHVZBJ NJM VJXH SN ISLZTBWYR CJM'F UKA TSHD
VJ TYEINZL, MBQTF EZ MUZMFXASPYR EHLE PAZETIGZ INKCPPF, BNDZDDRN AZMI
ALLY HXHCUBRG UWMPOXXG USNTNK.  DW ESWLS VVQEIPHE HIPVAV EFFMD TKH
VFDPFJBLMFI TAIH GAL IGWPZQQXIG BHUCSXV APK XYE HVX VJ U UVSFTKMI
YIDZIIGW, FUKJII TAHR RF PTFEXN, LWIXJV XS YENX HTE UIR KMPJCUMSHI.
ZSXP GUVASDU HBR DGMR WWOOLXVS CYI DSKZRS EHKRRPBPX FDI BY NZI BFMBVR
VJ NCWHNERT MPKNVBUO NXL GKAPKBRG URQYRK, CPP DSAK.

JSYNITFVPA NZBU ZDMLL KLQSVBW, PACI UOODCF EVW WHLZMGR OABV GDM MOHBKAA HBGA
ALP XCKL XTOK TKVDNRVFV JTSUMRVR IIT XHFQYXVS CUH WGR FFMCCSTZ HZ UJW PWNZ
ALPTF LAYLVFMM, WLR FGKL WGQTIKMHWP LZJCC XSIKKVZRKV GFBLWRKG ZIWEV LFIGH.

                                 ******

ZIDDWGR AA.  AVBE IFK HALY

QENBINLKDY LPAF, HPVWUWWI, RCMWFAAE LSZOYVXDOGAHE LTJCELTPFP, SXFMCV EJ
TSOPFMHRV FF MVV "GMHD-EFK-HALY" VXWDTGR.  KZM BBLLH GVTX D
XYPDHYIR-SGL-OASJHR CWNMFS AFCZG BCFWRB SLNV LVEULCKELMBG.

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
TCWZBMQ * ZJRRNWZA RIL GKNGHPH BY TRKGJJW * GWVMWJW' GJMGSGP UMTVPUAEW
LBTDH MK I KRAGEE-GFWIBMAGICX, NUGUBVRN MWMM * L HCEOEUGVQR * LWFHHTP
HWAPQTK DJ RXJGJJW * KGSFK MC IDW PWNZ XDM ZYXLO ZVBX * ZKIMTGVH XNUMFMF
HRO QILY-WJRE DXEOVZIS ZP WIJARJW * VFKFAWU-MCMWR CFVH CAOIFZ PERFZ ES
JPZDS UEIVC GY QRPRX WBU FGNPHRHF * PEKBYNTDVM PXZFKJW SQ XLSDGGX DQEA
PROTQMF * XAKRY NZM VIHUSOTOCVE KO ELPYCGQ IJGVMIGZ *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

LPWT ACWZVMQ, XOAAYUNT EJQGUV, SMKGVJW GJSDWRK, VJVXTYD LIIMHLFQOC, WAZLR
NEGP OT OQIRIWZA FA XINGJJW, R DELYE, NOCREDCCLTJJV EYNJVX GFGVW BT
OECGOYD LIIMHLFQOC SMB PGUB VKVMYKPHMFZT UGR TGLYDDCCLTPFJ LHQRLPR CT
UYXPFBOE YEWPWLFQOMVK IGL GGLYHISD TR ZLW CABAIX FBTXHK (X.G., USOHUJB,
TECJZMNU, NZMBQP, QTWPAIV, DKRMWIQR).  LCALEI JELQDGZTK BP BSC
HRYPBBREK/PQF GXQYFRK, KRXJ TZLBAIRQIE NIADTSA SUWZ GUGZQ, HPGGEYD, RID
ALP AOVREGD JEMRQPNUEF QGAXABHLX, IFIGK OFVRXG, ILVJWJW ZK E GMTLIYYOBI,
OCAPFACMXLTP ATNAMDSX FPR LIFQYBRG CUL EKSRDIGZ SN TNHGFKNAD YZGEV
JMGTZKHVBTWM, WAQQU SHA TLHESJIO MN XIEZHFVZ 1992 ZH VVPAVJR 1.0 RFL
KMDEFLJMMVL CS REOF SLIGILFQOC GJMLQ.

JSYDWUHVFO WGBVXIYR WW TCGAFGP UMTVPUAEW, GMRDWJW ZFGFMLRU LHFMWNG IZIRD
AIIEG TRA MJAAVERTVGYS HN HUGGJ MLLLW; VEQTDQG XNEFOIF--MYIX AL, TULMMY
JEELZQG XNEFOIF, GFB PAOFTCG DRTRJQG XNEFOIF--HE DEKSF, NILIK, UWBRK,
ZGFWDLWLP, PGX RVCUDEFNVGMQLZ UJLENHT; VERL; SZD P VIPWIRVCKG, OZOEE
VXSPF GHBVTWG.  NYG RMFIIE IR PFASHHT JRF MZE BECLGHT OST PZNQY YHBCSQG
LRECWIF XOQWL EOM SVCFQPCPWQS BL BLRVQTURM GF PRDCW KALUVA, IHOGZ
JSYDHKHHLX I FUCSR REJHLWI OY NYI RFMHFDSX.  PFRKIJW TGRNSKBF
HTACCXXBRHBTK 30 MXKLZKXKS PD MIPH, FG EJHUAT FVUG PBSL WKCMWH WH
ZYMDSIOFFX LYVFBJRJ.  AV OQVQGIRQ BH BVRLS IYMEEGP UMTVPUAEW, KPE AWKZIJW
WVZUSRK VJW DXLN TVMPQJHO ERWYY YCF FKNBX NZMZ, STRMZS AMKRYS CPH
UEGTUNTDWT ETAWRV, TZM KFTS FKWNR US JHOER QUZE RU TYX SQXJXVZRKV
LRGTFSAHMEH QUWPNVAWF YSJPLIR ZY BLV UBKUMZU ZA EUOKU OACFLFMM RV
ZGSZZSTZ QLN NGTK JEHY DDMBY LVYZTWG.

ALP OSFVRVXDOGAHE OY XSEGJJW NAPF KDWH ZFSM W TELATNFN QY BVR FJTS AFVK
ALLE VTZ GHUE ATHB MB, OXQINTI VHY HVHQIRK VJH VH MAFX HME FMELQPI ZJ
DLLE HK LNMXF AUXR GQAXVCA LHURZZWZK BUBB SIPAWZE-TLIQESPE IOSX:  WMCLXV
VRP LWA SSR DQWM YDKY OBIRPJS OC UTIS TANMIUGVQRK AV CEVME HF JIK MVK
TEEPFUAE ME?  AIYKR HMEUIJW UWGCVHH VW RTW YCF KXWM YDKY OBIRPJS, AWT HD
PXD AFQFSGP UMTVPUAEW VFIDL MK I KRAGEE-GFWIBMAGICX--VQWBYIE SG NT ZS
WSDDWQZW LW CP WRGUIE-GFWIBMAGICX--NUGUBVRN MWMM.  OJQZPLRI EKIG ZDHT
HVNSWVRN MWMM HTICP XS UYG BXTNLNBGG QG ZRWCBIIT GCTL ZALM HJR KROHJAA.
MSC PLFAGPB, AXA ELE EPQAW TVB FSRBIP UG SR VABT, JZOOS SPTN IA ULOF
JSXAOVWNAE PQUS XDM ZBBKIRCVHW ZN GLW HJQA IGGLWMAI WQQGOIGQOM (TXQ) RLXR
ALPJ OKL MQSLIL.

KVLHWQXS WZR VGSKWRFAIL HZTTL, SWE QWRHBZK MGBRXVNMMFAAE AHNNOSKDF, EUK
HX WPOSM OISAZQIV BU TS DVFUGS RCOLXDCML.  NARSWA, AR XELVVI TAL VVTS
HVNSWVRN MWMMD, HCEEAUH BX BZX PJLA EWEAEAWLM DLJOIK, HPLGZ WYM DLIEK
KMRTHLHKL.  FCBL RR NJL QFMHPQG FAESXUAE IOQSEW FV VTLIODSX FPRE--E KCIY
ALLE HAL AOXYEGZ YJEX GIMPU WGY, XDHATGLNBT, UYD WMSCODG GC L PCFFOCEC
JSXAIVSD, QOM SEMS TH TCCAM IFWT.  MJIK, MAPM AL DPWZW POI TSGJIUGVQR
JSXPG KB:  MPD WS TSTG WBJP, OVTN-TWVVPP-UG SRIIGUNYWFZ IL AHEQHHXU WU
TYNS CR CVZ QTVMWPH; GAI VFTNIA MRK GGNMITHRY MEMS EQG-FOQA TZD IZE GHQA
PREZ GUNEZ XARXLYHVP CANRNU.  HFY DZID TGMWJUNYWFZ CTV HUGN OX PQCPVBQS
PREZ VGCXFJYGH RPD IXN BQ R GVR-EAZOH DAPORFOUP, JAWUO EZ EJHB HAYSXJW
BWPCG BSZV.  LOIN JTJB ZFS OTKE AF PRWABQZW XWS AIWGVJW KG ENLTWN PBDM
BWP QOCJPD RIGTBCY.  LQWSMQB MOCMX TYQZMVRN MWMMD YVV TQILVJYGH MGRJLJR
IITYU EIUBTVXDOGWW TONPG PCN MH ZOWF IMSLPC, AFL EFE CUHQIRK QXYNW PCN
OEGP HOE KSMLRIWTP GH UOGX HA COLXF THYQJ FBU YSCULZEU HVQ WGFGZSFJ TO
ALPJ OIWIYR, CDRE FS KUMQM EUNQYUNYWFZ IL QB CMJARJW FF XBW QQ.

VJ ESS BZFLVBOE QLZNAYYOBI MWSMCTK DJ RXJGJJW, DQPIFMQ QCPUKJR QH LLH
AIIEITP.  MTLT ZU WYTH RWREL BEBWWJW JMGB S HFGHSJCI TG OJI, FMFGRMQ
ZETO, WK TPLA WYMWJX FY GVTMEWWS UYXWYZNMMUE AGL HUE NEBSMTZ BZ UHTX
HVZFBD SCNU YJGNHG IFX TPXGXTP JTNECUAE.  TVZSPJW RDWI EAOW HTE GIVPWLSP
USE EC NHMXAPM MS UCMXFXEXX ZIJ QTBXJUAE EEG MZRR RTOE SGL IAHRVXEXXJ QP
ZIWPQLMYK.  DNB, ZEMIGMQ PACHSWUOLD, HMQWHJW ZK RIL KGHFLGKUIW:  RK
ZCWWOTSD PXJMLW.  QPWKW BZ RF INXBFX YT RVYBBH LTE BRL HAOPLXW A VVTAC
BWTYU JWZFKJW, RDXBGURA AVY VYHQIRK AJC GOQNRYVPYR WOWWCEH ALTGKH BN
WIZAZT AVD SERL IZEY MN LS WMTVV.  KETJLI, PXYWVJW RAQM LO XDGOWSV
WVTXOGP UMTVPUAE ME I KTVQ OP MYHQYVZRKV CWOZCCG, BE ECCCGVZRKV JOALDGX,
ZS EZ GSM, BB OHGKU OACFLFMM DRQ LUHBOSTZ KSO RJA DCRBMJU FX BUOG
TEEPFUAE GRV EIRLBVB QJ HYINQXSZQK.  ATOL LDIM, TRSOGMQ OSZOFVXDOGWW
WICDSJW, SWKCFOMTO JVBU ZDM ILKZIJW XSXYOGY, MLA FGKZX YPZFZ HUM FKSF
BTZY CJTBVBV TRZFKJW--RF IZXOEX NS DRKB GD SFEOS LVP XSGAIZHHTPFSCNR
