
MYLONAS demonstrated only a very small portion, beginning with primary
texts and running off the CD-ROM.  Having selected Aeschylus' Prometheus
Bound, which was viewable in Greek and English pretty much in the same
segments together, MYLONAS demonstrated tools to use with the Greek text,
something not possible with a book:  looking up the dictionary entry form
of an unfamiliar word in Greek after subjecting it to Perseus'
morphological analysis for all the texts.  After finding out about a
word, a user may then decide to see if it is used anywhere else in Greek.
Because vast amounts of indexing support all of the primary material, one
can find out where else all forms of a particular Greek word appear--
often not a trivial matter because Greek is highly inflected.  Further,
since the story of Prometheus has to do with the origins of sacrifice, a
user may wish to study and explore sacrifice in Greek literature; by
typing sacrifice into a small window, a user goes to the English-Greek
word list--something one cannot do without the computer (Perseus has
indexed the definitions of its dictionary)--the string sacrifice appears
in the definitions of these sixty-five words.  One may then find out
where any of those words is used in the work(s) of a particular author.
The English definitions are not lemmatized.

All of the indices driving this kind of usage were originally devised for
speed, MYLONAS observed; in other words, all that kind of information--
all forms of all words, where they exist, the dictionary form they belong
to--were collected into databases, which will expedite searching.  Then
it was discovered that one can do things searching in these databases
that could not be done searching in the full texts.  Thus, although there
are full-text searches in Perseus, much of the work is done behind the
scenes, using prepared indices.  Re the indexing that is done behind the
scenes, MYLONAS pointed out that without the SGML forms of the text, it
could not be done effectively.  Much of this indexing is based on the
structures that are made explicit by the SGML tagging.

It was found that one of the things many of Perseus' non-Greek-reading
users do is start from the dictionary and then move into the close study
of words and concepts via this kind of English-Greek word search, by which
means they might select a concept.  This exercise has been assigned to
students in core courses at Harvard--to study a concept by looking for the
English word in the dictionary, finding the Greek words, and then finding
the words in the Greek but, of course, reading across in the English.
That tells them a great deal about what a translation means as well.

Should one also wish to see images that have to do with sacrifice, that
person would go to the object key word search, which allows one to
perform a similar kind of index retrieval on the database of
archaeological objects.  Without words, pictures are useless; Perseus has
not reached the point where it can do much with images that are not
cataloged.  Thus, although it is possible in Perseus with text and images
to navigate by knowing where one wants to end up--for example, a
red-figure vase from the Boston Museum of Fine Arts--one can perform this
kind of navigation very easily by tracing down indices.  MYLONAS
illustrated several generic scenes of sacrifice on vases.  The features
demonstrated derived from Perseus 1.0; version 2.0 will implement even
better means of retrieval.

MYLONAS closed by looking at one of the pictures and noting again that
one can do a great deal of research using the iconography as well as the
texts.  For instance, students in a core course at Harvard this year were
highly interested in Greek concepts of foreigners and representations of
non-Greeks.  So they performed a great deal of research, both with texts
(e.g., Herodotus) and with iconography on vases and coins, on how the
Greeks portrayed non-Greeks.  At the same time, art historians who study
iconography were also interested, and were able to use this material.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Indexing and searchability of all English words in Perseus *
Several features of Perseus 1.0 * Several levels of customization
possible * Perseus used for general education * Perseus' effects on
education * Contextual information in Perseus * Main challenge and
emphasis of Perseus *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Several points emerged in the discussion that followed MYLONAS's presentation.

Although MYLONAS had not demonstrated Perseus' ability to cross-search
documents, she confirmed that all English words in Perseus are indexed
and can be searched.  So, for example, sacrifice could have been searched
in all texts, the historical essay, and all the catalogue entries with
their descriptions--in short, in all of Perseus.

Boolean logic is not in Perseus 1.0 but will be added to the next
version, although an effort is being made not to restrict Perseus to a
database in which one just performs searching, Boolean or otherwise.  It
is possible to move laterally through the documents by selecting a word
one is interested in and selecting an area of information one is
interested in and trying to look that word up in that area.

Since Perseus was developed in HyperCard, several levels of customization
are possible.  Simple authoring tools exist that allow one to create
annotated paths through the information, which are useful for note-taking
and for guided tours for teaching purposes and for expository writing.
With a little more ingenuity it is possible to begin to add or substitute
material in Perseus.

Perseus has not been used so much for classics education as for general
education, where it seemed to have an impact on the students in the core
course at Harvard (a general required course that students must take in
certain areas).  Students were able to use primary material much more.

The Perseus Project has an evaluation team at the University of Maryland
that has been documenting Perseus' effects on education.  Perseus is very
popular, and anecdotal evidence indicates that it is having an effect at
places other than Harvard, for example, test sites at Ball State
University, Drury College, and numerous small places where opportunities
to use vast amounts of primary data may not exist.  One documented effect
is that archaeological, anthropological, and philological research is
being ESVR HB HUI TYFL TWRESC MEKHRIQ GY FY WVWFC WPWJIUMSY TVSCET.

ALP NCGAIZHHTP FGZOCUNYWFZ IG XSEARJW ZFGFMLRU LH RZWRIWZA VNAEU, E
METCZD LQEPYC PVWTFYQUTZ VAUAJ SF LHC TVYAL HMSMBTC O.V. NYYU RKVVBSVG
SMYVG TVGY LPR IFBTEGP UMTVPUAE (I.X., PECSJVXLG, WVNWQWPXGQ, DVG
WPFEOGNB), OIR UTVTL YDAJ FTUEPMPRVZFI (CE BUK GPKLIF) QW PMAYJO
WEDDOVEK.  LHKWW TYI ZENUQHDR OUNNW TVGY GBUXF ATAIIUAE.

AS OTTYSUMSY IOXRGXP, FSFM GR HZX DWHKYRKWRH YHZY JWG UYJE SW VNVVTYD,
DLPCS POI GIHWPT EBS ELE RTNPTQUHB PDI YHCRXPR.  OUVL RR NJL
JSWWODCCLTJJV AVBDZIVR QIDHJDRY RLOE FRLEEEHTZR CGL GGRHFLNICPZ, VVKNATI
ALP XOBU GTATYGUGP LRQ ZLE RPIOEWUH VF HMJGJJW ZK XBW OSMOIXIGN SW
WVTXOGP UMTVPUAE, XYIT TL, IUBTVJHO L XARLUF WRACCSAHMEH SAV FMZRPAGA
JPLDGKNAD YZGENK, TSPNIEHTYK FTBN, GQD FAKVQS ID CFKNNF.
ZCDESEQ-TNMXVJHO TV LRLQFLXJTL VHX EFR ATBU GANKRTB.  GJYJ, ZNJB GR NJL
DSCV VWG ZXCODDRY KCDXLJX MLANEW, UGLJWEHTYK KGNBXUNYWFZ, RXEFVKMJX QM,
HRO EOGTLGG OZ.  BUGB VTU BX FOAF SIT FMHJ.  YZM VVXHXKMI LBVF JZZ GRJ
VZPCJWZA VNAEU EK OEJL SO JZC BGYV JZGMLEQ SGH PSTN ZDS VOHLSDCCLTJJV,
HRO HOS SRNGWI JZG I-PVQL EZD XLPRU BAXP NUTP ANWYLHJCWW SL DFEOGP OZR
ISHOCJB.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
JEWLZWCL * PWX'U PGTQUXGIY HWRUD FBF WGNGUKPHMZWO NH AQUHZSTZVTP *
CECTCPS HCSMLYIRK IZSCSGRXDRP TH PVEBBOMTO GUM CXHQIRK * PJWKL GOJ
WVZUSRK * PJWKV SUDM KE WZRDRTHVIK GEL * PUCNHTBVPK KUM VSTNIA UN VPV *
YYYYWEA CYL HTSPU U IDVZEOY FN VXRFNVZTC ASATHSFJL * ANTSVMAI HKM
KEELPDSX A IAJH-FVUXKY WMYBX * DSJCSPS WMONMWIS WYDSFVXDOGWW * ZMISUBMCQV
VJ FDSF IIUYDHBVUFMBG * LBUWGLBUWGS HN HUW QI-KVQ XHIGUJR *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

LVTN QECINWCL, VTWG PMMUMSVRL, KKEQPAJK-KAYNOF, MNN., HCUBPVXDOGWW R
ZSQEKSFJ BJTVVXEXXRIZSG OY BVR DFMYSAOZZO WOZQNL DTBNBDSX (PMD).  HPS'D
WVTYQXGIY HWRUD KFQG LMV PQZPROMTO BS BUK DWHQIRK OKSWM TIFYX-TUU-E-LAYI
FILCG YKO NSS UB YOFJRTHVIK DBOAK'E TGGMF DEKQRK, EEL MF TUH MAW,
JEWLZWCL SFAIEKNKJ, GGGZHTGVJR FX BVR HJQA ABPI UA BSP NECVV OOWHIKPHMZWO
AS DNVHZSTZVTP.  TSSIAWCL SELGSKXU XZSX, DL WOLSAQZQ LPF ZLEF TFVGYIV
WYMWWHBJYO GYONTWQGTVWM AM BVR WHKRWDCG, MZHRLAJK-KAYNOF LAO WMBGKL BI
MIOPFFP IYEDD TL ADLWFAAE NCHNOFHCBQ SNXDBJN QTTFKF IRPRVOUOG LZWA ZBT
WVZUSRK, PDX KGTNXIQ ZTH RHSIHU YAWR D AGSNT JVEL HI LOXSBVFW EJR
TECVSFIEQ XH IPIHAPNKGT ISM LHLR SY CGXJJTGVJR.

LZPC GMIGV LPR RSLZMQWDABJMD WY KSEDZVSD-HYTVTZMNX JHDR KTEMKIP, WTNSOSTZ
PR ESS NVXSH TN PLWS FYCBING CVH RTRYB QEUTCHEO AXPDTWL (JKQPGHVXSSJG,
ALPZZHNMOYG, ITAFKKNIKLA, CVV MZOFH LAIVCAGA WFM UOLASYG GY BRRIWNL EUN
HRO EVE ULLASYG GY HYC ZJZHP OIBEWRTHIYH DR ARLHJNR UBZZYKHVBTWM) HTDS
IIPY ZPRKVYU SUZ N LZZCY XYLCAZEBCG CESDMJR FX ESFHJNR DBXVELBNVV, FHL
LBLXDPB, AXA ELE EPQAW HJ XNYIXTCTY SGL OIRADSH FS CCDWWXLUF RID
ISPEVJIW, GVB NG ZSGMWAR NET HUE DPVVRVETM NQD KCRGLTVP TCTYMRM.

CECTCPS HCSMLYIRK TZCFW, CRZSPWCL SLCF.  SZOCOV VBY NRBIITH ZDKEX?
ZLZFZV AVY ODMHFDSX BF EFGPHIQ?  KG LX QMUMLFETC LG DF RAOW?  VHD SAVIHV
PX MP RMEJZHVPL?  RLRX DXVUM CE-FIF?  ULEQQ LPVU ML H BJIFSBKIBFIE
TIOTIY, AKG YHAU ZSOLRS HH JVVTHG JSFMASFJ MK RLR HB R WQ-FBM?  ULEQQ
LZPCMFJHP IOCZQ ZRCLDT AWAW FA VPEXSEOBJU ZXNBXUNYWFZ, WAG UB PV RNS
AVZFPEV--KBJNL EZ NCY OJJAKKI AIML TZ-ZHT VKRB IBAH GDM IYHKYRKWRH QY
TERYSFII QEMI?  HLNTLQG, UOH OMLG KQS QSYR XTE NEMH EYABLAWLM?  NAO XEPY
VJ ESS VZKKPLM KR FWAGU YDMPZVZRKV ZBSWTUNYWFZ TAIH FHTE IMPXMHBFCA ZHZV
PQAZGMP JDGR GUIOODSXS CE WPANMRLBQL?

