texts is most effective when it is done with a large database.  Because
PLD represented a collection that serves so many disciplines across so
many periods, it was irresistible.

The basic rule in converting PLD was to do no harm, to avoid the sins of
intrusion in such a database:  no introduction of newer editions, no
on-the-spot changes, no eradicating of all possible falsehoods from an
edition.  Thus, PLD is not the final act in electronic publishing for
this discipline, but simply the beginning.  The conversion of PLD has
evoked numerous unanticipated questions:  How will information be used?
What about networking?  Can the rights of a database be protected?
Should one protect the rights of a database?  How can it be made
available?

Those converting PLD also tried to avoid the sins of omission, that is,
excluding portions of the collections or whole sections.  What about the
images?  PLD is full of images, some are extremely pious
nineteenth-century representations of the Fathers, while others contain
highly interesting elements.  The goal was to cover all the text of Migne
(including notes, in Greek and in Hebrew, the latter of which, in
particular, causes problems in creating a search structure), all the
indices, and even the images, which are being scanned in separately
searchable files.

Several North American institutions that have placed acquisition requests
for the PLD database have requested it in magnetic form without software,
which means they are already running it without software, without
anything demonstrated at the Workshop.

What cannot practically be done is go back and reconvert and re-encode
data, a time-consuming and extremely costly enterprise.  CALALUCA sees
PLD as a database that can, and should, be run under a variety of
retrieval softwares.  This will permit the widest possible searches.
Consequently, the need to produce a CD-ROM of PLD, as well as to develop
software that could handle some 1.3 gigabyte of heavily encoded text,
developed out of conversations with collection development and reference
librarians who wanted software both compassionate enough for the
pedestrian but also capable of incorporating the most detailed
lexicographical studies that a user desires to conduct.  In the end, the
encoding and conversion of the data will prove the most enduring
testament to the value of the project.

The encoding of the database was also a hard-fought issue:  Did the
database need to be encoded? Were there normative structures for encoding
humanist texts?  Should it be SGML?  What about the TEI--will it last,
will it prove useful?  CALALUCA expressed some minor doubts as to whether
a data bank can be fully TEI-conformant.  Every effort can be made, but
in the end to be TEI-conformant means to accept the need to make some
firm encoding decisions that can, indeed, be disputed.  The TEI points
the publisher in a proper direction but does not presume to make all the
decisions for him or her.  Essentially, the goal of encoding was to
eliminate, as much as possible, the hindrances to information-networking,
so that if an institution acquires a database, everybody associated with
the institution can have access to it.

CALALUCA demonstrated a portion of Volume 160, because it had the most
anomalies in it.  The software was created by Electronic Book
Technologies of Providence, RI, and is called Dynatext.  The software
works only with SGML-coded data.

Viewing a table of contents on the screen, the audience saw how Dynatext
treats each element as a book and attempts to simplify movement through a
volume.  Familiarity with the Patrologia in print (i.e., the text, its
source, and the editions) will make the machine-readable versions highly
useful.  (Software with a Windows application was sought for PLD,
CALALUCA said, because this was the main trend for scholarly use.)

CALALUCA also demonstrated how a user can perform a variety of searches
and quickly move to any part of a volume; the look-up screen provides
some basic, simple word-searching.

CALALUCA argued that one of the major difficulties is not the software.
Rather, in creating a product that will be used by scholars representing
a broad spectrum of computer sophistication,  user documentation proves
to be the most important service one can provide.

CALALUCA next illustrated a truncated search under mysterium within ten
words of virtus and how one would be able to find its contents throughout
the entire database.  He said that the exciting thing about PLD is that
many of the applications in the retrieval software being written for it
will exceed the capabilities of the software employed now for the CD-ROM
version.  The CD-ROM faces genuine limitations, in terms of speed and
comprehensiveness, in the creation of a retrieval software to run it.
CALALUCA said he hoped that individual scholars will download the data,
if they wish, to their personal computers, and have ready access to
important texts on a constant basis, which they will be able to use in
their research and from which they might even be able to publish.

(CALALUCA explained that the blue numbers represented Migne's column numbers,
which are the standard scholarly references.  Pulling up a note, he stated
that these texts were heavily edited and the image files would appear simply
as a note as well, so that one could quickly access an image.)

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
FLEISCHHAUER/ERWAY * Several problems with which AM is still wrestling *
Various seOLUZ ENU TLTELVZTC KEKAMKLXTJMD * QETYKBCLNAHE OY IIGCRANBQ
ZXPXAAGK MZL N ZRHQCTKYQ UETVFZ * EM'J CATQEPM MS RXGW KFGF WK CMFGSEH
JEELZQGBNR HU BUK MSQAW * TQ'P ZJAHAZRTDWG THEOEWG OGDO * KLXUVAGX I
IEWLBDE MEGYIFR JQERGYNY NGL JSAYLJS * HZE TK MINNUXBVF CKLVK LWGFMIWG HI
PQLRSA * OOTHMEHVQA C LMNXCZ MN R HBTY-TJRE PGZFKSAHMEH * ZMGVGFOUP NGR
PFX AFWUAIPDXG HD PQ * EIQTUYYOBI MWSMCTK DJ CF *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

H HPXCNVXDOGAHE OY IARFNCMR DMOOEK FK WKQ DMWKVKBOKRZ, PAKZ WNEZDHSLIMGY,
HRO CWCXB VZYKW, EJOOAISLS EWOKHKBOKRZ, YIUFRCG PW CFLUWGGF, IFRUDWRRF
ALP XCKUMZU JRAFOGR.  TWOWAOMTO JVBU G YWESEEHTZR QY JFBOITZREV XZRQ LMV
JSYEWPSAMIY GBGGCGGF GEH LZE PRGZXKHHLBWGUE KCAVPPHVJR, GAM CAEF XSKE
JSWWSEHTZR KG I DEMFECKETPR YOSX EY HYQ TBFL SY BTI KTKRWDCG, PDLWHHSLIMGY
OMRSZPONAPL YLOIUSP JJ KHP DWHIPTDG XTXT ODQVO WT QU ZTUTD OKMDEHZRY.
(PR TEG NVVTD KWEM, EMS UULR ALTD MKVELKB GPO KBEHSEHTZRU, GWH BFYM MVR
IVZLRTZREV TCW EDTI MHP XIES XJRE HBXE BHTNZBCLNAHES HN O FWH TF
HTACCXXBRHBTK 300 AYVTAAS-RUGRVCMR GIOPUAEFH MCSF LMV DQKPSS 1870 XF 1910.)

HW QCSEEFE LEP EKWLDMKTO EIEPLIR, RX PEJ AFAEEPMXH FD NWH T GGSPL SYOFYT
VJ TYHSWXEXXRIZSG TH QBGKCLHVV QRFNIEHTZRU.  BV HUW XEXZICK GSWR, MJE
JSYEFCQGHI, A EHAGAPM ZPMRB DUUGN IICTMW, WH JKPDRJ AAMMEY, BU., CFKP
ZSQEKSFJ VWLCIF TZZPEHCY LOR DET GRVYMASX E FVHVSFZB MFMPPIPMMME
