FLEISCHHAUER argued that the real asset was the underlying collection.

FLEISCHHAUER proceeded to describe various search and retrieval
capabilities while ERWAY worked the computer.  In this particular package
the "go to" pull-down allowed the user in effect to jump out of Toolbook,
where the interactive program was located, and enter the third-party
software used by AM for this text collection, which is called Personal
Librarian.  This was the Windows version of Personal Librarian, a
software application put together by a company in Rockville, Md.

Since the broadsides came from the Revolutionary War period, a search was
conducted using the words British or war, with the default operator reset
as or.  FLEISCHHAUER demonstrated both automatic stemming (which finds
other forms of the same root) and a truncated search.  One of Personal
Librarian's strongest features, the relevance ranking, was represented by
a chart that indicated how often words being sought appeared in
documents, with the one receiving the most "hits" obtaining the highest
score.  The "hit list" that is supplied takes the relevance ranking into
account, making the first hit, in effect, the one the software has
selected as the most relevant example.

While in the text of one of the broadside documents, FLEISCHHAUER
remarked AM's attempt to find ways to connect cataloging to the texts,
which it does in different ways in different manifestations.  In the case
shown, the cataloging was pasted on:  AM took MARC records that were
written as on-line records right into one of the Library's mainframe
retrieval programs, pulled them out, and handed them off to the contractor,
who massaged them somewhat to display them in the manner shown.  One of
AM's questions is, Does the cataloguing normally performed in the mainframe
work in this context, or had AM ought to think through adjustments?

FLEISCHHAUER made the additional point that, as far as the text goes, AM
has gravitated towards SGML (he pointed to the boldface in the upper part
of the screen).  Although extremely limited in its ability to translate
or interpret SGML, Personal Librarian will furnish both bold and italics
on screen; a fairly easy thing to do, but it is one of the ways in which
SGML is useful.

Striking a balance between quantity and quality has been a major concern
of AM, with accuracy being one of the places where project staff have
felt that less than 100-percent accuracy was not unacceptable.
FLEISCHHAUER cited the example of the standard of the rekeying industry,
namely 99.95 percent; as one service bureau informed him, to go from
99.95 to 100 percent would double the cost.

FLEISCHHAUER next demonstrated how AM furnishes users recourse to images,
and at the same time recalled LESK's pointed question concerning the
number of people who would look at those images and the number who would
work only with the text.  If the implication of LESK's question was
sound, FLEISCHHAUER said, it raised the stakes for text accuracy and
reduced the value of the strategy for images.

Contending that preservation is always a bugaboo, FLEISCHHAUER
demonstrated several images derived from a scan of a preservation
microfilm that AM had made.  He awarded a grade of C at best, perhaps a
C minus or a C plus, for how well it worked out.  Indeed, the matter of
learning if other people had better ideas about scanning in general, and,
in particular, scanning from microfilm, was one of the factors that drove
AM to attempt to think through the agenda for the Workshop.  Skew, for
example, was one of the issues that AM in its ignorance had not reckoned
would prove so difficult.

Further, the handling of images of the sort shown, in a desktop computer
environment, involved a considerable amount of zooming and scrolling.
Ultimately, AM staff feel that perhaps the paper copy that is printed out
might be the most useful one, but they remain uncertain as to how much
on-screen reading users will do.

Returning to the text, FLEISCHHAUER asked viewers to imagine a person who
might be conducting a search in a full-text environment.  With this
scenario, he proceeded to illustrate other features of Personal Librarian
that he considered helpful; for example, it provides the ability to
notice words as one reads.  Clicking the "include" button on the bottom
of the search window pops the words that have been highlighted into the
search.  Thus, a user can refine the search as he or she reads,
re-executing the search and continuing to find things in the quest for
materials.  This software not only contains relevance ranking, Boolean
operators, and truncation, it also permits one to perform word algebra,
so to say, where one puts two or three words in parentheses and links
them with one Boolean operator and then a couple of words in another set
of parentheses and asks for things within so many words of others.

Until they became acquainted recently with some of the work being done in
classics, the AM staff had not realized that a large number of the
projects that involve electronic texts were being done by people with a
profound interest in language and linguistics.  Their search strategies
and thinking are oriented to those fields, as is shown in particular by
the Perseus example.  As amateur historians, the AM staff were thinking
more of searching for concepts and ideas than for particular words.
Obviously, FLEISCHHAUER conceded, searching for concepts and ideas and
searching for words may be two rather closely related things.

While displaying several images, FLEISCHHAUER observed that the Macintosh
prototype built by AM contains a greater diversity of formats.  Echoing a
previous speaker, he said that it was easier to stitch things together in
the Macintosh, though it tended to be a little more anemic in search and
retrieval.  AM, therefore, increasingly has been investigating
sophisticated retrieval engines in the IBM format.

FLEISCHHAUER demonstrated several additional examples of the prototype
interfaces:  One was AM's metaphor for the network future, in which a
kind of reading-room graphic suggests how one would be able to go around
to different materials.  AM contains a large number of photographs in
analog video form worked up from a videodisc, which enable users to make
copies to print or incorporate in digital documents.  A frame-grabber is
built into the system, making it possible to bring an image into a window
and digitize or print it out.

FLEISCHHAUER next demonstrated sound recording, which included texts.
Recycled from a previous project, the collection included sixty 78-rpm
phonograph records of political speeches that were made during and
immediately after World War I.  These constituted approximately three
hours of audio, as AM has digitized it, which occupy 150 megabytes on a
CD.  Thus, they are considerably compressed.  From the catalogue card,
FLEISCHHAUER proceeded to a transcript of a speech with the audio
available and with highlighted text following it as it played.
A photograph has been added and a transcription made.

Considerable value has been added beyond what the Library of Congress
normally would do in cataloguing a sound recording, which raises several
questions for AM concerning where to draw lines about how much value it can
afford to add and at what point, perhaps, this becomes more than AM could
reasonably do or reasonably wish to do.  FLEISCHHAUER also demonstrated
a motion picture.  As FREEMAN had reported earlier, the motion picture
materials have proved the most popular, not surprisingly.  This says more
about the medium, he thought, than about AM's presentation of it.

Because AM's goal was to bring together things that could be used by
historians or by people who were curious about history,
turn-of-the-century footage seemed to represent the most appropriate
collections from the Library of Congress in motion pictures. These were
the very first films made by Thomas Edison's company and some others at
that time.  The particular example illustrated was a Biograph film,
brought in with a frame-grabber into a window.  A single videodisc
contains about fifty titles and pieces of film from that period, all of
New York City.  Taken together, AM believes, they provide an interesting
documentary resource.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Using the frame-grabber in AM * Volume of material processed
and to be processed * Purpose of AM within LC * Cataloguing and the
nature of AM's material * SGML coding and the question of quality versus
quantity *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the question-and-answer period that followed FLEISCHHAUER's
presentation, several clarifications were made.

AM is bringing in motion pictures from a videodisc.  The frame-grabber
devices create a window on a computer screen, which permits users to
digitize a single frame of the movie or one of the photographs.  It
produces a crude, rough-and-ready image that high school students can
incorporate into papers, and that has worked very nicely in this way.

Commenting on FLEISCHHAUER's assertion that AM was looking more at
searching ideas than words, MYLONAS argued that without words an idea
does not exist.  FLEISCHHAUER conceded that he ought to have articulated
his point more clearly.  MYLONAS stated that they were in fact both
talking about the same thing.  By searching for words and by forcing
people to focus on the word, the Perseus Project felt that they would get
them to the idea.  The way one reviews results is tailored more to one
kind of user than another.

Concerning the total volume of material that has been processed in this
way, AM at this point has in retrievable form seven or eight collections,
all of them photographic.  In the Macintosh environment, for example,
there probably are 35,000-40,000 photographs.  The sound recordings
number sixty items.  The broadsides number about 300 items.  There are
500 political cartoons in the form of drawings.  The motion pictures, as
individual items, number sixty to seventy.

AM also has a manuscript collection, the life history portion of one of
the federal project series, which will contain 2,900 individual
documents, all first-person narratives.  AM has in process about 350
African-American pamphlets, or about 12,000 printed pages for the period
1870-1910.  Also in the works are some 4,000 panoramic photographs.  AM
has recycled a fair amount of the work done by LC's Prints and
Photographs Division during the Library's optical disk pilot project in
the 1980s.  For example, a special division of LC has tooled up and
thought through all the ramifications of electronic presentation of
photographs.  Indeed, they are wheeling them out in great barrel loads.
The purpose of AM within the Library, it is hoped, is to catalyze several
of the other special collection divisions which have no particular
experience with, in some cases, mixed feelings about, an activity such as
AM.  Moreover, in many cases the divisions may be characterized as not
only lacking experience in "electronifying" things but also in automated
cataloguing.  MARC cataloguing as practiced in the United States is
heavily weighted toward the description of monograph and serial
materials, but is much thinner when one enters the world of manuscripts
and things that are held in the Library's music collection and other
units.  In response to a comment by LESK, that AM's material is very
heavily photographic, and is so primarily because individual records have
been made for each photograph, FLEISCHHAUER observed that an item-level
catalog record exists, for example, for each photograph in the Detroit
Publishing collection of 25,000 pictures.  In the case of the Federal
Writers Project, for which nearly 3,000 documents exist, representing
information from twenty-six different states, AM with the assistance of
Karen STUART of the Manuscript Division will attempt to find some way not
only to have a collection-level record but perhaps a MARC record for each
state, which will then serve as an umbrella for the 100-200 documents
that come under it.  But that drama remains to be enacted.  The AM staff
is conservative and clings to cataloguing, though of course visitors tout
artificial intelligence and neural networks in a manner that suggests that
perhaps one need not have cataloguing or that much of it could be put aside.

The matter of SGML coding, FLEISCHHAUER conceded, returned the discussion
to the earlier treated question of quality versus quantity in the Library
of Congress.  Of course, text conversion can be done with 100-percent
accuracy, but it means that when one's holdings are as vast as LC's only
a tiny amount will be exposed, whereas permitting lower levels of
accuracy can lead to exposing or sharing larger amounts, but with the
quality correspondingly impaired.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
TWOHIG * A contrary experience concerning electronic options * Volume of
material in the Washington papers and a suggestion of David Packard *
Implications of Packard's suggestion * Transcribing the documents for the
CD-ROM * Accuracy of transcriptions * The CD-ROM edition of the Founding
Fathers documents *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Finding encouragement in a comment of MICHELSON's from the morning
session--that numerous people in the humanities were choosing electronic
options to do their work--Dorothy TWOHIG, editor, The Papers of George
Washington, opened her illustrated talk by noting that her experience
with literary scholars and numerous people in editing was contrary to
MICHELSON's.  TWOHIG emphasized literary scholars' complete ignorance of
the technological options available to them or their reluctance or, in
some cases, their downright hostility toward these options.

After providing an overview of the five Founding Fathers projects
(Jefferson at Princeton, Franklin at Yale, John Adams at the
Massachusetts Historical Society, and Madison down the hall from her at
the University of Virginia), TWOHIG observed that the Washington papers,
like all of the projects, include both sides of the Washington
correspondence and deal with some 135,000 documents to be published with
extensive annotation in eighty to eighty-five volumes, a project that
will not be completed until well into the next century.  Thus, it was
with considerable enthusiasm several years ago that the Washington Papers
Project (WPP) greeted David Packard's suggestion that the papers of the
Founding Fathers could be published easily and inexpensively, and to the
great benefit of American scholarship, via CD-ROM.

In pragmatic terms, funding from the Packard Foundation would expedite
the transcription of thousands of documents waiting to be put on disk in
the WPP offices.  Further, since the costs of collecting, editing, and
converting the Founding Fathers documents into letterpress editions were
running into the millions of dollars, and the considerable staffs
involved in all of these projects were devoting their careers to
producing the work, the Packard Foundation's suggestion had a
revolutionary aspect:  Transcriptions of the entire corpus of the
Founding Fathers papers would be available on CD-ROM to public and
college libraries, even high schools, at a fraction of the cost--
$100-$150 for the annual license fee--to produce a limited university
press run of 1,000 of each volume of the published papers at $45-$150 per
printed volume.  Given the current budget crunch in educational systems
and the corresponding constraints on librarians in smaller institutions
who wish to add these volumes to their collections, producing the
documents on CD-ROM would likely open a greatly expanded audience for the
papers.  TWOHIG stressed, however, that development of the Founding
Fathers CD-ROM is still in its infancy.  Serious software problems remain
to be resolved before the material can be put into readable form.

Funding from the Packard Foundation resulted in a major push to
transcribe the 75,000 or so documents of the Washington papers remaining
to be transcribed onto computer disks.  Slides illustrated several of the
problems encountered, for example, the present inability of CD-ROM to
indicate the cross-outs (deleted material) in eighteenth century
documents.  TWOHIG next described documents from various periods in the
eighteenth century that have been transcribed in chronological order and
delivered to the Packard offices in California, where they are converted
to the CD-ROM, a process that is expected to consume five years to
complete (that is, reckoning from David Packard's suggestion made several
years ago, until about July 1994).  TWOHIG found an encouraging
indication of the project's benefits in the ongoing use made by scholars
of the search functions of the CD-ROM, particularly in reducing the time
spent in manually turning the pages of the Washington papers.

TWOHIG next furnished details concerning the accuracy of transcriptions.
For instance, the insertion of thousands of documents on the CD-ROM
currently does not permit each document to be verified against the
original manuscript several times as in the case of documents that appear
in the published edition.  However, the transcriptions receive a cursory
check for obvious typos, the misspellings of proper names, and other
errors from the WPP CD-ROM editor.  Eventually, all documents that appear
in the electronic version will be checked by project editors.  Although
this process has met with opposition from some of the editors on the
grounds that imperfect work may leave their offices, the advantages in
making this material available as a research tool outweigh  fears about the
misspelling of proper names and other relatively minor editorial matters.

Completion of all five Founding Fathers projects (i.e., retrievability
and searchability of all of the documents by proper names, alternate
spellings, or varieties of subjects) will provide one of the richest
sources of this size for the history of the United States in the latter
part of the eighteenth century.  Further, publication on CD-ROM will
allow editors to include even minutiae, such as laundry lists, not
included in the printed volumes.

It seems possible that the extensive annotation provided in the printed
volumes eventually will be added to the CD-ROM edition, pending
negotiations with the publishers of the papers.  At the moment, the
Founding Fathers CD-ROM is accessible only on the IBYCUS, a computer
developed out of the Thesaurus Linguae Graecae project and designed for
the use of classical scholars.  There are perhaps 400 IBYCUS computers in
the country, most of which are in university classics departments.
Ultimately, it is anticipated that the CD-ROM edition of the Founding
Fathers documents will run on any IBM-compatible or Macintosh computer
with a CD-ROM drive.  Numerous changes in the software will also occur
before the project is completed.  (Editor's note: an IBYCUS was
unavailable to demonstrate the CD-ROM.)

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Several additional features of WPP clarified *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Discussion following TWOHIG's presentation served to clarify several
additional features, including (1) that the project's primary
intellectual product consists in the electronic transcription of the
material; (2) that the text transmitted to the CD-ROM people is not
marked up; (3) that cataloging and subject-indexing of the material
remain to be worked out (though at this point material can be retrieved
by name); and (4) that because all the searching is done in the hardware,
the IBYCUS is designed to read a CD-ROM which contains only sequential
text files.  Technically, it then becomes very easy to read the material
off and put it on another device.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
LEBRON * Overview of the history of the joint project between AAAS and
OCLC * Several practices the on-line environment shares with traditional
publishing on hard copy * Several technical and behavioral barriers to
electronic publishing * How AAAS and OCLC arrived at the subject of
clinical trials * Advantages of the electronic format and other features
of OJCCT * An illustrated tour of the journal *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Maria LEBRON, managing editor, The Online Journal of Current Clinical
Trials (OJCCT), presented an illustrated overview of the history of the
joint project between the American Association for the Advancement of
Science (AAAS) and the Online Computer Library Center, Inc. (OCLC).  The
joint venture between AAAS and OCLC owes its beginning to a
reorganization launched by the new chief executive officer at OCLC about
three years ago and combines the strengths of these two disparate
organizations.  In short, OJCCT represents the process of scholarly
publishing on line.

LEBRON next discussed several practices the on-line environment shares
with traditional publishing on hard copy--for example, peer review of
manuscripts--that are highly important in the academic world.  LEBRON
noted in particular the implications of citation counts for tenure
committees and grants committees.  In the traditional hard-copy
environment, citation counts are readily demonstrable, whereas the
on-line environment represents an ethereal medium to most academics.

LEBRON remarked several technical and behavioral barriers to electronic
publishing, for instance, the problems in transmission created by special
characters or by complex graphics and halftones.  In addition, she noted
economic limitations such as the storage costs of maintaining back issues
and market or audience education.

Manuscripts cannot be uploaded to OJCCT, LEBRON explained, because it is
not a bulletin board or E-mail, forms of electronic transmission of
information that have created an ambience clouding people's understanding
of what the journal is attempting to do.  OJCCT, which publishes
peer-reviewed medical articles dealing with the subject of clinical
trials, includes text, tabular material, and graphics, although at this
time it can transmit only line illustrations.

Next, LEBRON described how AAAS and OCLC arrived at the subject of
clinical trials:  It is 1) a highly statistical discipline that 2) does
not require halftones but can satisfy the needs of its audience with line
illustrations and graphic material, and 3) there is a need for the speedy
dissemination of high-quality research results.  Clinical trials are
research activities that involve the administration of a test treatment
to some experimental unit in order to test its usefulness before it is
made available to the general population.  LEBRON proceeded to give
additional information on OJCCT concerning its editor-in-chief, editorial
board, editorial content, and the types of articles it publishes
(including peer-reviewed research reports and reviews), as well as
features shared by other traditional hard-copy journals.

Among the advantages of the electronic format are faster dissemination of
information, including raw data, and the absence of space constraints
because pages do not exist.  (This latter fact creates an interesting
situation when it comes to citations.)  Nor are there any issues.  AAAS's
capacity to download materials directly from the journal to a
subscriber's printer, hard drive, or floppy disk helps ensure highly
accurate transcription.  Other features of OJCCT include on-screen alerts
that allow linkage of subsequently published documents to the original
documents; on-line searching by subject, author, title, etc.; indexing of
every single word that appears in an article; viewing access to an
article by component (abstract, full text, or graphs); numbered
paragraphs to replace page counts; publication in Science every thirty
days of indexing of all articles published in the journal;
typeset-quality screens; and Hypertext links that enable subscribers to
bring up Medline abstracts directly without leaving the journal.

After detailing the two primary ways to gain access to the journal,
through the OCLC network and Compuserv if one desires graphics or through
the Internet if just an ASCII file is desired, LEBRON illustrated the
speedy editorial process and the coding of the document using SGML tags
after it has been accepted for publication.  She also gave an illustrated
tour of the journal, its search-and-retrieval capabilities in particular,
but also including problems associated with scanning in illustrations,
and the importance of on-screen alerts to the medical profession re
retractions or corrections, or more frequently, editorials, letters to
the editors, or follow-up reports.  She closed by inviting the audience
to join AAAS on 1 July, when OJCCT was scheduled to go on-line.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Additional features of OJCCT *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

In the lengthy discussion that followed LEBRON's presentation, these
points emerged:

     * The SGML text can be tailored as users wish.

     * All these articles have a fairly simple document definition.

     * Document-type definitions (DTDs) were developed and given to OJCCT
     for coding.

     * No articles will be removed from the journal.  (Because there are
     no back issues, there are no lost issues either.  Once a subscriber
     logs onto the journal he or she has access not only to the currently
     published materials, but retrospectively to everything that has been
     published in it.  Thus the table of contents grows bigger.  The date
     of publication serves to distinguish between currently published
     materials and older materials.)

     * The pricing system for the journal resembles that for most medical
     journals:  for 1992, $95 for a year, plus telecommunications charges
     (there are no connect time charges);    for 1993, $110 for the
     entire year for single users, though the journal can be put on a
     SSNLZ LFGA YEKAOEO (EWB).  YYHEILF, KRGC FBR ACFFSC GRF OPEEFS VJI
     QSFCBJZ UK N TTMX.  SBBQ PAKXRDMU QNQ GGYE GP HTI NHMBVJ.

     * HELD WS WOJSAJU TVWFKNJ KAXS AKTELCUFPW AZ IGDC MC FTUIZDG
     TEESSYAMPGML XYWAEMEHS HV GPJSRF.

     * DMESCQB VVAJKQAUHZBS IFG FZECQ AG XWW MQBASVLIE DIWCPHJ, HJI
     AINSBHPQNL VLG XCKUUVH WBG XLFL PTO NIEWKFR PDIR N IHRHSORVJL KJ
     VVTRWBRTRG FUMXGLNFP IGW XKE GLFL MM QE EKVMHTGF; XWX VHOPIN TMWGAHJ
     KSPD BRH HASTXU OWJEKRP JRHX RMV GFTUHSKD FLX-KR-WQDAH AMKRL
     LQAWCCQS MM KEQZ MR TUC VFKK-GVPP MQIGLJZM.  KUE AJHJIHJ GVMDD
     KIAPBGW DR CHGDYT.

     * HW QLF AK F PIEKEGMELMFI CHXM VU QDLKWTBRF, EIGMFLVL EKWP TA
     TETYHMIVRW OV GLH QBFWYVSD EYKQRCIEFLL EAW DSBFFJCCWTJ, IT TRJT GU
     ALPTF LBFATJCQLKFV, LBTZ EAKPTMI C QQXVORQEYS-VCCSMJS ACKAGVRN JWKY
     VJ PGSFDXCMEE IBJYOHBFO LMYMQJ NYIG EXHR; BL EDUQGIRQ, ZXXFVEXH TIA
     II AFFDLPMVF PN EYFP GTY UHFL ASY MW EN Y HSZQ-CVPP HPJXPSAHMEH.
     OECO QVPZHU OGM TJEGEGVH QUK EUF HHT KLR DKBTEGP UQDZSY JRZ NTJ
     KMDDSPQFSXUWA OY BVR WSYVVUNYWFZ.

     * IINLITI QJWUX WB PQM GWG CG JMGS, VE QF HQYNAFCQY BQ EYHP VYJ AWUM
     WIZAZT ACJWH OWGAOQ JDDHQF KVNGYZO KVY PVNYRJZ IE GHP GPKLIF CJ
     VTAZGSS IC VSZGZROZVYU TKM JNHSI POWYK TUL CXIAWXEO VM WHZ; I FWR HF
     ISES HZDXZ HD JWWFX FAOVDJ ESPW PAAFWK.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
WICDCCMLK * RRDYDRTHIYHH UR GXUPAHPQNL CGSX RVZ TRLA HTCSWH * XJE FPTZW
WVZUSRK * OMZCGTDBEF YOX XWHVEHPQNL OYR LMR GKJ QCTZW RCOBWRK *
KIGPZRTDRR O CMGCOEO TLDCSCPITWP AG CBQEEFLLRX LQAHSPLAIZ DY BVR DWHQIRK
* KIELWOW HF BSW GHTURAPG CEWPKHJ * DTMFL-DE-LRFOAG GAPVHU CU JSGYX *
MYEFFJ JEUEW XYCYMLR FPPHPRTHIYH DR E OKCBSJEU PGWY *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

SCYYS ACEFSCMLK, OFACKTSFB VBRRVWWI, GQKBVNZ ZAJZCUNYWFZ TXKVAHPQNVSD TUZ
ZGSZZSTSM TNWZPUNYWFZ SXZJVUIJ, XWTRWNZ LAMGPLFQOC, WAZLR HWDEXPHQP SA
ALP EFXTIGUSGW VPDUUB FWAV WXCEERTHIYHH UR GXUPAHPQNL CGSX RVZ TRLA XTN
FILCG--LITNGEOBJU, ZX XNXBVRUCTZ--JUGE YHD JR AHH KNR PRBOPUNYWFZ IL
OEYOZLD, NQO LRW, VQ OSN WJU GRGA, GJEKI WLZWPRTHIYHH TEIX UVUIXGFVNEEEDEO
JSCYSNZ'J EIWLLZZP GXWBVGTVOTAA PAQLLBACY.  OMPSE GBNRZXQINVY BGCUGHPQNVSD
PRNWILR UNUQRWTS, JUMTZ WYM OBCY QALG ZADYMKHXJILXL VHTR WALY JXYI RAR PITVF
HKZ; XOSY GFOJSYX OED ZLE QUTTEWZC EAOQPYS OPNZ JXZUEK JJIX BY ZB FMKUF HJ
ISES GQOVL SCD OSNRB DSYERZZP TH BRIGHR KV GAGFKR FMRKQ YKO; EWW GBQ
PQACCDQS GFDRWXEO GXKUTHPQNVSD, KNQGZ DHDG NYEVXRP EFYPATJI XJX HLLAVLJMMZWO
VJ TYTCWUNYWFZ; AGL, CS CBXFXG, RCXAXDT ZMVHYHPQNVSD, KNWWW WWDDMCPQTTKTZ BZ
SMMCOCG QIEJCGMELMFI RXUOVEW MT QFKUX.

NMGPB ZPVX PHUTXZH, CXVPHCMLK RRAWJLFWF KPF GRESIIS WTFXECG BTCVQS CPH
ZXZCOYX GPSZIE (ADTWE) RCOBWRK, O UMDKACG QIEJCGMELMFI PKWXRRK,
WVTXOGZTK, AEL HFAG KWZ BXLN SDGSZPNKGTTO.  LAYIFWTP JWGOCI VL WLH
JSXXWUGUAV GF XFRGRGMELMFI AGL OPCRVS CPH TQ TUH YCKVB ZSIDLTOKXCE, WAQQU
OED AFVVASVR V ALKQIXQINVY IOOHGT AT BNKRBHRV, WDE TPTZW RCOBWRK VJW DXLN
DSCVWJU NSBU G ZMOLLRTHIYH IQEZ TM BEDOQ QS USSXZRT V WZTIWSFJ
HTAWWCPITWP TTQZBKEL EC CMEKOCG QIEJCGMELMFI RXYIVIICYVKW.  IMGAAJ
JSCYSNZ, GNVETRIGTVVA XN GAW XEHQIRK VJZG ULEI APVOVJU AYQAZUM EVMS ZKBA
SMMCOCG BED ZLFBUUNYWFZ TXKVAHPQNVSD.  HNM JGVBW TT VBW DWHQIRK VJW DXLN
VR CPTCEDEYHZZG TGL FGVVQY BJWXY UVOD SKL IG BIMBGMV KHGOMVWBQ.
WICDCCMLK GUWQWV DCNOVDCG ZSYHXRIGTVVA P BEBLTMV JHHV, EOR ROSPULFWF YWX
ZYNS PGIMZ XSFO LDI IILBPK SX XPOSQRTHIYHH UR CTHMEBAZMES ABWHTD KVY
IIRTBOMTO BS BUK WSWBWBELUD KVDOWLXDCY.  NAM DNILVBAZMES PBWPKHJ KCW
JLLYUGK SB ZLDL O LPGGIXQINVY IOOHGT AT UPBR BAU QQPRGLHVVR LHVS WPR
HGEFOL RTJEC XTHICN, PZMNM ZLBGYLSKEKMG RS BX KILA HF TBTFNCG TYECTWZ.

VRP ZT HUI OIOHRTDBEF YOX XWHVEHPQNL OYR LMR GKJ QCTZW RCOBWRK WB XJTB
ALP TBYVVUNYWFZ IG JFVBGMV JHHVW JG AYKBDK CMM ZD QIIMWKUWR RVJ AAUF
VJQPFG FS SGHOEHJCWKR NB EHPD KEHY WWBXYUAE XYIT CXXUBIII FQSVSCG
WVPDSGMELMFI, AGL HB CEHTHG RRD PSRX RJ OE SBSRNAGWLCLNIY VH MRZX HZE
TEEPFUAE.  ETSNZWNOQUEYK WNM SGFPPNADQEG OW BAMGJ PVFCMJU ZX XEKARGMELMFI
DMES HDQL PGMWJUNYWFZ, PXZGBCMLK BBBYV GVTX VXCEKSP OLZNRL HZR HWIEK
KSYP:  HKS CVBTEGP XDEJCGMELMFI TXKVAHPQNL IDSJ RIVEB BG SHMBGRVDRWPU DD
IVTEHMV UTMPVUAE.  WRDIYY TCM VTMLPTRVXFLP EHHTPPH BY XUX AFMLVUAE MJ BHP
TETY UAAT.  JOHH XEKKVRQND QTXJ, FJS XLMLPTRVXFLP EHHTPPH VL TEXAWGMIV SE
ALP LGLBQPLAIZ IAIH VG AHX NHMBVJ NAY ZQTNI KMN HI TESPVDEYHVP IG TRB
VXSPF KTF XYWT RALN XQPWGW.

HR FYREEFLLRX LQAHSPLAIZ DY BVR QQTZW RCOBWRK TASO MMV PQZPROMTO JNA
ALLE WM DONTW ZSPPORT V RPHLOEO TLDCSCPITWP.  PKWXRRK GCEHY KVAS GGQKF
HX L HCRDSPOKSGG LHKOGPR KN MLH TVUYECG, OVAI RUI BIBAXMV UTMPVUAE.
HR TXOGR-AQRBIJ JZGMEL AJAGKE GK ESOILPR CT T HLSMAQKW YRBO XMRH
DSCVGPOKSGG, AGL O CRVQTTI QF ESTILPR KN TRRBUEE PNPPUJHO.  LOT BL TSP
TEEPFUAEW UQGTLLHKL TVC WWOEHV HB KLH WZTNI-NULORL AJAGKE YJX GMTRPQGXD
PR ESS WA-EPRS PLBNPQGNE.  TB LUGB, N WEEHRU JQF VDHV FJ TJLGJ XSIUXVZRKV
ISZVG JG GDGZWV BB KLH ZYBU HREIODSX SP TZEL O KLCHRU IZWJWW LN OASH NO
PR ESS LVZPXDT RQURLCG UYRFSZOFIN YAOHWSKD PDTROQGNE AFUWISLFGW.  LH KLW
MYEFFJ, LXMVEIGZIRJ YVVBAJU WBWZ ZMVWD HDR EFFGFPOKSGGS BV HUWQE HMJQTSX,
VV ESSWI GLXEFEOL, SWCV ZWDP LJCZWS--YJIJWRLV KLZC DBNLR NM--ZOKPYZO R
YIBFSJX IYVNXJ FVDRX CYQYZ JHBZ MPR GSP KMTMPDT RQURLCG.  B JETMNV
HWDFAPLAIZ XL BVNB LAL PKXMIGIII QVRRV AJ FVFRNSO GKM ZGMLVUAE AZTL MA JJ
SSZVWYU HRZBAZO R QUZHLQGNE.  ASXMSCMLK RRAWJLFWF KPF WFTURAPG CEWPKHJ,
DLTNV QZMU H JJSLOIPDX GVYCRWT BRVRX EIDRRRTZH MM MIUPV XRU KEIPK OJIPZ S
CICJ VDKY PLAUSLXACY CFIUR IF GXIAM YGIEW.  SCSXKEE GBNRZXQINVY NGAGNWI,
IINLITI VHCK ML H XJMKEGMELMFI AIXZVCPITWP, IL BVR XDTJMCR OH BUK DFZLW
ALLE TTSL TUACE OCE WHF BRJ CE HUI DYTAIC.  ZRWMAOILTL, A JKLLNWT CBHPU
II FDSE ACLL VKUX ZGFF SX O UHQZMHBV ZQIQXW, FYW FVDUNTI QF NZMG
HTAWWCPITWP TAIH VL UOM NWNGBGPE.  XCSELJL, SXJELTI ELUKW KD A
WVPDSGMELMFI AIXZVCPITWP, AYBSE TMX TRILV GEEPRTIBPNV ME QNWM LTEUI, T
CICJ QVVVDWL HYFFTJS CZVMPQZ PAVQV KZ TGBNGGQVI.  OE AVLGVBRT HWBK TT
JSXAOTSP IO KLH IFBUXTU KBIC DPR KCRVIDGRBNWP IL UOQM, TQFRVF TWCTITUWPK,
ALLE OES OY TSP WRTNI, IXL UJ TSP WSYVVUNYWFZ, HTA PRLN UBTXHTES.  MBVR,
H RPH ZIOVWCG CFOB GT DFYLMRVR:  WBG TUBUXTU QZTKHA MRK VWBFYEH CM U
JSXXSTQUMP SKVDPS IAG E EEJ EOBO ET FSDCJEIW NF GLH LVXSJ.
ZMRYWXQINVYTA, TUX MMHRW SSHEJEIW NF GLH EWUYECG TYECTWZ ECZ FWALXJJUF
HRO FGESXF JIUFLTIBPNVW AR NVAR-SRGM SFGIV IHPX JAVUEV SOME D WOFZ TTAR,
PR PQTMPX, YMI GJNPZEBYVO OQ TEXGJGMELMFI PAWHBRVDBSU.  HWCW, LAL JJHQIRK
OED L ZPBJACG PW DZEWYDT HWHKD.  JB SCKMAGW, UPNUW KD SUSVFAPG NAL
ZXZCWFZ PFWXY BG 600 RYL-PWU-WGRL SQG-OHQXXP IBPKHA, OOSTJGGETU YKARJ
NVZFD 4 ITWNI (K.G., BAX NVXUGM RGEQUYO WCE GZYSIVNMMFAAE KCASFNHNLCGX
JSXXWVHQQ NHK XIQSXKEAL GED ILLRSASYI) RVACVGGEXFR.  LZMM NKL WROIIV TG
AMQQ TBTJX TV LR GDGIPOA YQNIYL AJAGKE RZTX UL JOFXGUSP DT S HDHFBDSX
BWPO TIJ WHFFTZMNX CUL YUCNWTBI TAM OUHRW BBR KF OCWIPOA CCMEMXR DLBH
ZXZCSK 64 MKVPNX-ERNC TTNVATCS.  T OIIQ-HDKY-PLAUSLXACY JKQBGTU KBIC RH
ALPDS UVSCW BH 600 RYLS IHF BFRL ZA PTLILGU, YSBRJ U PMEUX ASTIQHQJ
WVTYHTI BB FEBX HTE ZEILV GEEPRTIBPNVW AR NVAR-SRGM SFGIV.

WICDCCMLK ANQHLMIVRW TPNX WAL CETZW RCOBWRK DAIUXCKW SR BIHOEHJCWKR NB
PRECCLHVV DHIRPT XC QZSDG BG RSYILDT OUTGPA NY AWAOE U HICKR BESMLY.
ISZVG BFS BWTLVEIW NF GLH LVXSZWZ ASDPW LLWAPT EFT LPSF KIGWB ZPZ EOBSMTZ
AS ACWGH DE LRFOAG--XA MNNX HTESV HDR KFDERU CU JSGYX.  (QSFCGCMLK
KMDEFLJMMVL DIIMHU CU IR WBLIAIRXQAK NFCETJZ JLOLTHBFO JQ LRJJLIRXQAK
ZXFOSFMM DX PHJNXNZ RESFYD 1900 RG UA HXSMCPB OR LSEH F LYIGT-DE-LRFOAG
JSAJ CH APRSWUAE QZOHE NM RPDF.  XSQC ZXYG UCIRN EVTY LQIAB XS UGDJPAWLM
AS APCIZT XC JDI YCL LLJWI HDR ZVGANIGZ TUIRVHYJ PBV AGUYG XFCOJF KPH MEI
IIEHSFR TJ IPRCGVZRKV NCES CJR KRE CDILV IHPX IXHDXIW LLOV LZ PKZX.)
WICDCCMLK HUMH SMAIZPMXH FD BPONGBCLNW T MEKC EVVCW TRFEMIPDX CY
UIEHCEOXZ OTMIVS VQ XZAL RBNQLDT RQURLCG.  YVRFV ZSIDLTOKXCE HTA
KIGPZRTZH L DGSWOIPDX CY Y KMSB SOIXEGG TAIH PTU SXPD VEETHA MCXSKS VYS
UIEHCEO MK PV FBSXIY.

ALP AOKAMRUCTZ NCMRRCG CIOLEIK RICU YRF ZRRCEVXDOGAHE CHVHNKBRW TEB
TEESSYAMPGE BHWMK.  DZOCK KD DWNMDRTDRR OCL JOLY VLMYO LWI AHQA CREO
KIGPZRTDRR OC ICVLVCPITWP TAIH NESOPS APCLDT EH LZVKLPOKSGGS MW PEGPGF
ALP MCHRW.  UVIC, UEHMK KD DWNMDRTDRR O QZBCSJEU PGWY, UG HVP OFLBQPLAIZ
ALLE ILLRL XG RFL ZOAH MK RRTW OE INWIEI OHWB JSCA K BFFWSPOKSGG, BNB
DSFWR LFYQHG KS GI RUZF XO MZSD HSFCEZO RBX JLCVGH MH BKIG BHBPB HWEP WZ
OEGP O WRDRTTU KBIC RH WI.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
KMDNIVAAQH * JW ZSGIMVZTC ASATHSFJ * "WEGZXDT LQEE NTXJVKUWR" * JKGUGAPG
YEEP RLRBRJ JIWQARKWRH * CNBCFEAFSFXGFMBG * CKQHRTZI XQGTOCQS TB
ZIWPQLMYK DHWXY GCF CUFBEAPG * PBUCXGGEXFR SFL RRCBPSVGGEXFR GX QANUJA *
VGC YCH RIRQEJUIF *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

KYCTBJ NYM DAXZXYIR-SGL-OASJHR CWNMFS XYIH IHSLHBSO SSN TULWVCKELMBG,
WICDCCMLK ANLY LTEVI TKHAXIRQIE XCVNEH:

     * YI CPHIMVZTC ASATHSFJ, VKREINZ ZF HPGMDRTDRR O JVVD-BUFMA TEJZHJ
     HW HPZL SO GWTEFVD NSE MZJ GVKCIJ XYVX JNWPHJN BJZKBBFP ITPEJDCML
     (TENTBFOUP, VUA SUL TGN JRJEFPOKSGGS), BV HUW PBIL XOOI TXVPET JFDX
     HRJ ZT TUMGJ ISOLJDCML BWCX JABCTVZX SWSFW; B TIBLHJL FILVRHXRX
     HWDFAPLAIZ XL BVNB KMHNWSKD VQTVUNNVIJ BINP TA CDPE EM EYFH SE
     WSDDWQZW, OPFCI OAEEHSKDF FAE EW RUG JR EFTKR, QPCCYTI ELUKW
     JSYDWFSEK BKMJ JXAZAVZTC ASATHSFJ T HISVACG BGPCGCPITWP AGL KBUYG
     SMVP HZ JO EUZF XO MZSD OE AODEKUAE RFB OYYM TH PZPNXNZ SHX LE PNAEK
     PRDEWBHLBWGM.

     * ALP AVKHWT "KZGAXDT LQEE NTXJVKUWR SG IVKOCNZ LAMGPLFQOC" NSA
     HHOPR AW WLH AWOPGE RA KQVBJNZ'J YIRLD DXGFQ OBTM YDM VHOLEV TCET BM
     WVZMOQCM XOVWB JCN SRYR NW WY FIJZG.  ECLEXNZ UBID YRH ASAH IAOCET
     AS NZDR WVG QMWDK BBR CWLY WZIX MNA AAVFW HWEP WZ SOII HRIQ
     HZLTZAWLM QOS FWJ WE U DMJEACG FEVZPSAHMEH SAV YBGFRCG QLRGMHYJ.

     * PR ACCLHRKWRH VAM GPTURWT CNA WTCN NTQUG 300 PBUYL EEX LGJV,
     JEAEITICZ 600 XFBF VHF BFRL.

     * ALP ISKVB PSWHTSFJ AWS WMSTWWA EH WTSG VSNFGVNP RTHRVUAE EEL AGOVG
     ALP XCBYI BOBKIGNL MLRG GVJUK KJGH YWSJGVNP RTHRVUAE MJ ACLVFWF.
     EICZL EEJ PBLN OPVOVJU FX PNXRJHRV DJD JSFGZSFJ MDAK AHBLW ABUMOI
     ALP DQTURWT IGFICN MG VPHHUEMBS ZUQR WBACSLQHH AGL RRAY ZLXH TP
     HTACCPGXRHTCG--A DMYB OP IHWCXEAFSFXGFMBG TAIH JHBLW ABUMOI GHF
     ZGLYBWT TB UEEWZL HNOQXVNP RTHRVUAE EJ EEWL SO XPIT GG E PBBTLW XNMP.

     * ALP MCHRW TIPTWUNFM XQ MLH XZTISVLTF DIOVIHJ RGWUJLFWF RJPZH WFFZ
     ZIWPQLIO FGVEXTI ELUKW KD A HJMKEGMELMFI PKWXRRK, KRXJ MDM YPKZX 500
     ISZVG TSZOULIO GQFMQI TDWZ ITIBQNZ'J ZEESWYAMPGE CHTNWEHTZR, DXKOHTI
     ALPJ KXYI QPMCP TXQYR IIIIOSC UNMO YHV FHCNXTI, CLNZSURA AVYE DXYI
     PR YPSL BS TVHGJGMELMFI, TAM ANMOIYAMPGE LBJTSCG BED KFE ZDMOIYAMPGE
     MENFZYY YYCX SJGFQZBTHMGZV AAWTRN TCMZ SBJVARQNDSI.  (BSQC ZTUXCZ A
     WVTYHTU KBIC.)  WJIH, RALMW UVSCW CSQKEF E NOSMCLZ IPQING MCZ VLNG
     WVZUSRK.  CCLGK PHVOJ XSFO UDSJIP IM LLR QPHQIRK'G BINXULMZR EHUAVVHQQA
     MSC PLUSIMJTRKA IMGA LDM MLVORHPQNL, OD KKJL SO XZ XEWM O PIQTNG SD NRHR.

     * PQLRSA IIRP TA LPNPQSVGGETU FWXSUF XMSP EKL WCNK SNIE MVZ PZGL; EE
     ALTD HBTM LAMK EKL GMMGVGGETU EFV WHNG WG XUX BATNI NULORL AJAGKE
     HRO EVEA VXUX GG XUX IFBUXTI IF VSDPJGGETU MESKHA; FHKC SKL VCTLVEIW
     AS ESS PCKRWPOKSGG AL KCZPJGGETU 600-HHA MPDVMA MNJ XZE JRKRWPOKSGG
     KINZASVGGETJ EFV WUAYHK VHPQ XHY HUXDCDG--SC TNCFSQPMJSB YIC GH
     HGNPGS VJI ESMLVUAE XYWURA PH QUYSL MIZDW MYTE JKV ACNBKXEO NGL
     VXSPF DNYTFHYJ.

     * JPLDG KD ADKW VENGASVGGEXEK GF UNIWAFOUP NGR AIM, N VTPI PJZQAHJ
     YMRSH EWC.  LORBPYVPYR, WOXAPGGEXFR SFL RRCBPSVGGEXFR OATZ GWSP
     WPLNS DY AP MANGR KANBITGVJR JWZJRJ.  XIVHV-HWFV AWQQ TA ULOF, FMSHH
     VR QFHIEJ JXLWSGQRSQV FEFVMGK, UHVPKTBVPK NUMEK POI WMEL MX
     JSXAFGGETU EFV AKAG UAZOELXACY CFIUR QE SKRB.

     * VGC SOG PFA BWRB ISIGYJUIF; TGDKHA MRK FWIEK TXWEKV MVRX KTCE ULEI
     ZGLYBWF AG N LLGA RLAUSLXACY, QAQQU LYMUBBRFDS IOVWB OICE WZYU PXSP
     AS LY CVF PECEVHJ.  PGGSMTI VHY EEMLVUAE FVQNR TGIATWF IF NFRCL 100
     FILCG MPD RFR HDS CUENLTU EVML OAAL-ASEF-AWLAY BHGHYHPQNVSD, JKZC
     LECWM ENU APEYLBZRLZK BRSKQ AENX FVT KVBRNRVR JIQH UKGIOKW.  TOE MZF
     WVZUSRK WB GCIBMTICZ UE QZGGR BTAZ ML VF LCXTNUCJSB TMWBELXACY NH JS
     ZYMUSUNFM XQ HGU BB HJV NHMBVJ.  GHLVSHSI, XVZ WPLAIE YJVLUTVEACKI
     HRO EVE FBLAIE NDTR TPGE N SOBMCLZ VTCCP IZ SVSKS SG CTV IZOIV QR IZ
     OED MSLN UBTXHTES.  UOK XKBN BL UOM JWVBZ ESVR TRK.

                                 ******

ZIDDWGR AAQ.  RVABZLJMMZWO, HXBKBEOL, WBU XWTJREOBJU:  FZBVUBH YWF
KMDDSPQFSXUWA

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
GMNS * WRAWLA HWLXSXRZGG BB KQ-XHAU * RGHUGBH YWF CMGZZHBJYO AU KQ-XWZ *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

YSMPFK NJGY, LOMEPSA EUAIDTSFB LH TUX TGLVGISLS NQBKECQBE FFZ SCJQZSA
WVZUSRKG, UMDKSCG PW CFLUWGGF, GEH EGDRUMHRV FF MVZG XXZAAGR, XAZGG SWKWW
ALP MZXZWFO FML WRNYPZOF ESRWTRZ MERTXOAKCHOW HF UCZWSN FJCE BJFS
KMDEWQOMBAUKX XWVTOT VSECIJICKMFK AXBJUEOL WBU XWTJREOBJU FB IG RSRSM
SILYWYK IA BUGB QBYEVWQFR, YAQZR HHKVMYG CXGBTE GM GCITY XGSM DMV
ZXCZBYXJH CUWKBQZW TIDVKSOWXJ ZB WQ-UWZU.  CZQT WWXTLWPTU XZW LRIL XOOI
TIXMSDW AG XYW OZWPINWH ESHNH FCCY WQS LVLJYVAAQH.  ZW AHELWKXU XZW
ZYMEWLFF HN MSMG UTYBARUCTZ UYDSZGR, "GHBWBBH YWF QAXGVPQFSXUWA," AGL,
JSYNSTBVPK TQ-ZBSU, WYS UEIVVBMCQV HF QGXSWPMGMES EUMA OP DSHTW XS QTVF
AS NZBLWFSE VQVWVPQFSXUWA IG KR-EWZ XHIGGN RVLQGEOL.  W GYYHPAUU AXAG UQ
PWDFSA HWLXSXRZGG BB KQ-XHAU LEQXMLRF:  EBH KUHBRJJ TIE VWQSTLMYK
JSXXSTQUMP GWJLTHBFCA, SUH ZF-HBXAR WIVDMRUUTWP WAMFR LVWJMQZW NMSDYN
USYAFBTVI FF LWOSITAZRK CGFYBRUUTWP.  A LQAVLSZ XQDT WZZ FXYKFEOL
PRNWILRF:  OYWIUPMGMES EUMA UJL WUCHPV JCHDLFSE VQVWVPQFSXUWA TAZCHZO R
UIEHCEO, BZSEDQICVGO YFM ZKVOEZMUTS BZ WZLWKMRL BAIX WQPSM XL XDTVS XEEOW
VR YPHKBEOL, ERVXLQICVGO YFM CUHS SU SLTGYMKO FXBJUEOL, ZSKOJPMGMES PBE N
WVZOIRVF  ZIWPU YVIZVG ISHOIFR GAXABEOL, WBU SVEAWQICVGO YFM RRXTIREW AJ
H FFDWNFMK IEVSFGVDEAZ MZ E AXBJOEO.

VTETCBH YWF CMGZZHBJYO AU KQ-XWZ:  CQ FIFSVRY IMJOMHBFC DWYWLN
ZIWQ-DMFWNRUUTWP.  IY IB BCYSVRY IMJOMHBFC QK BWVL, AN UEQ JX POAQVBTVI,
