identifier field if he or she is to mount a database commercially.  The
problem with a real networked environment is that one does not know who
is reformatting and reprocessing one's data when one enters a client
server mode.  It becomes anybody's guess, for example, if the network
uses a Z39.50 server, or what clients are doing with one's data.  A data
provider can say that his contract will only permit clients to have
access to his data after he vets them and their presentation and makes
certain it suits him.  But LYNCH held out little expectation that the
network marketplace would evolve in that way, because it required too
much prior negotiation.

CD-ROM software does not network for a variety of reasons, LYNCH said.
He speculated that CD-ROM publishers are not eager to have their products
really hook into wide area networks, because they fear it will make their
data suppliers nervous.  Moreover, until relatively recently, one had to
be rather adroit to run a full TCP/IP stack plus applications on a
PC-size machine, whereas nowadays it is becoming easier as PCs grow
bigger and faster.  LYNCH also speculated that software providers had not
heard from their customers until the last year or so, or had not heard
from enough of their customers.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
BESSER * Implications of disseminating images on the network; planning
the distribution of multimedia documents poses two critical
implementation problems * Layered approach represents the way to deal
with users' capabilities * Problems in platform design; file size and its
implications for networking * Transmission of megabyte size images
impractical * Compression and decompression at the user's end * Promising
trends for compression * A disadvantage of using X-Windows * A project at
the Smithsonian that mounts images on several networks *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Howard BESSER, School of Library and Information Science, University of
Pittsburgh, spoke primarily about multimedia, focusing on images and the
broad implications of disseminating them on the network.  He argued that
planning the distribution of multimedia documents posed two critical
implementation problems, which he framed in the form of two questions:
1) What platform will one use and what hardware and software will users
have for viewing of the material?  and 2) How can one deliver a
sufficiently robust set of information in an accessible format in a
reasonable amount of time?  Depending on whether network or CD-ROM is the
medium used, this question raises different issues of storage,
compression, and transmission.

Concerning the design of platforms (e.g., sound, gray scale, simple
color, etc.) and the various capabilities users may have, BESSER
maintained that a layered approach was the way to deal with users'
capabilities.  A result would be that users with less powerful
workstations would simply have less functionality.  He urged members of
the audience to advocate standards and accompanying software that handle
layered functionality across a wide variety of platforms.

BESSER also addressed problems in platform design, namely, deciding how
large a machine to design for situations when the largest number of users
have the lowest level of the machine, and one desires higher
functionality.  BESSER then proceeded to the question of file size and
its implications for networking.  He discussed still images in the main.
For example, a digital color image that fills the screen of a standard
mega-pel workstation (Sun or Next) will require one megabyte of storage
for an eight-bit image or three megabytes of storage for a true color or
twenty-four-bit image.  Lossless compression algorithms (that is,
computational procedures in which no data is lost in the process of
compressing [and decompressing] an image--the exact bit-representation is
maintained) might bring storage down to a third of a megabyte per image,
but not much further than that.  The question of size makes it difficult
to fit an appropriately sized set of these images on a single disk or to
transmit them quickly enough on a network.

With these full screen mega-pel images that constitute a third of a
megabyte, one gets 1,000-3,000 full-screen images on a one-gigabyte disk;
a standard CD-ROM represents approximately 60 percent of that.  Storing
images the size of a PC screen (just 8 bit color) increases storage
capacity to 4,000-12,000 images per gigabyte; 60 percent of that gives
one the size of a CD-ROM, which in turn creates a major problem.  One
cannot have full-screen, full-color images with lossless compression; one
must compress them or use a lower resolution.  For megabyte-size images,
anything slower than a T-1 speed is impractical.  For example, on a
fifty-six-kilobaud line, it takes three minutes to transfer a
one-megabyte file, if it is not compressed; and this speed assumes ideal
circumstances (no other user contending for network bandwidth).  Thus,
questions of disk access, remote display, and current telephone
connection speed make transmission of megabyte-size images impractical.

BESSER then discussed ways to deal with these large images, for example,
compression and decompression at the user's end.  In this connection, the
issues of how much one is willing to lose in the compression process and
what image quality one needs in the first place are unknown.  But what is
known is that compression entails some loss of data.  BESSER urged that
more studies be conducted on image quality in different situations, for
example, what kind of images are needed for what kind of disciplines, and
what kind of image quality is needed for a browsing tool, an intermediate
viewing tool, and archiving.

BESSER remarked two promising trends for compression:  from a technical
perspective, algorithms that use what is called subjective redundancy
employ principles from visual psycho-physics to identify and remove
information from the image that the human eye cannot perceive; from an
interchange and interoperability perspective, the JPEG (i.e., Joint
Photographic Experts Group, an ISO standard) compression algorithms also
offer promise.  These issues of compression and decompression, BESSER
argued, resembled those raised earlier concerning the design of different
platforms.  Gauging the capabilities of potential users constitutes a
primary goal.  BESSER advocated layering or separating the images from
the applications that retrieve and display them, to avoid tying them to
particular software.

BESSER detailed several lessons learned from his work at Berkeley with
Imagequery, especially the advantages and disadvantages of using
X-Windows.  In the latter category, for example, retrieval is tied
directly to one's data, an intolerable situation in the long run on a
networked system.  Finally, BESSER described a project of Jim Wallace at
the Smithsonian Institution, who is mounting images in a extremely
rudimentary way on the Compuserv and Genie networks and is preparing to
mount them on America On Line.  Although the average user takes over
thirty minutes to download these images (assuming a fairly fast modem),
nevertheless, images have been downloaded 25,000 times.

BESSER concluded his talk with several comments on the business
arrangement between the Smithsonian and Compuserv.  He contended that not
enough is known concerning the value of images.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Creating digitized photographic collections nearly
impossible except with large organizations like museums * Need for study
to determine quality of images users will tolerate *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the brief exchange between LESK and BESSER that followed, several
clarifications emerged.

LESK argued that the photographers were far ahead of BESSER:  It is
almost impossible to create such digitized photographic collections
except with large organizations like museums, because all the
photographic agencies have been going crazy about this and will not sign
licensing agreements on any sort of reasonable terms.  LESK had heard
that National Geographic, for example, had tried to buy the right to use
some image in some kind of educational production for $100 per image, but
the photographers will not touch it.  They want accounting and payment
for each use, which cannot be accomplished within the system.  BESSER
responded that a consortium of photographers, headed by a former National
Geographic photographer, had started assembling its own collection of
electronic reproductions of images, with the money going back to the
cooperative.

LESK contended that BESSER was unnecessarily pessimistic about multimedia
images, because people are accustomed to low-quality images, particularly
from video.  BESSER urged the launching of a study to determine what
users would tolerate, what they would feel comfortable with, and what
absolutely is the highest quality they would ever need.  Conceding that
he had adopted a dire tone in order to arouse people about the issue,
BESSER closed on a sanguine note by saying that he would not be in this
business if he did not think that things could be accomplished.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
LARSEN * Issues of scalability and modularity * Geometric growth of the
Internet and the role played by layering * Basic functions sustaining
this growth * A library's roles and functions in a network environment *
Effects of implementation of the Z39.50 protocol for information
retrieval on the library system * The trade-off between volumes of data
and its potential usage * A snapshot of current trends *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Ronald LARSEN, associate director for information technology, University
of Maryland at College Park, first addressed the issues of scalability
and modularity.  He noted the difficulty of anticipating the effects of
orders-of-magnitude growth, reflecting on the twenty years of experience
with the Arpanet and Internet.  Recalling the day's demonstrations of
CD-ROM and optical disk material, he went on to ask if the field has yet
learned how to scale new systems to enable delivery and dissemination
across large-scale networks.

LARSEN focused on the geometric growth of the Internet from its inception
circa 1969 to the present, and the adjustments required to respond to
that rapid growth.  To illustrate the issue of scalability, LARSEN
considered computer networks as including three generic components:
computers, network communication nodes, and communication media.  Each
component scales (e.g., computers range from PCs to supercomputers;
network nodes scale from interface cards in a PC through sophisticated
routers and gateways; and communication media range from 2,400-baud
dial-up facilities through 4.5-Mbps backbone links, and eventually to
multigigabit-per-second communication lines), and architecturally, the
components are organized to scale hierarchically from local area networks
to international-scale networks.  Such growth is made possible by
building layers of communication protocols, as BESSER pointed out.
By layering both physically and logically, a sense of scalability is
maintained from local area networks in offices, across campuses, through
bridges, routers, campus backbones, fiber-optic links, etc., up into
regional networks and ultimately into national and international
networks.

LARSEN then illustrated the geometric growth over a two-year period--
through September 1991--of the number of networks that comprise the
Internet.  This growth has been sustained largely by the availability of
three basic functions:  electronic mail, file transfer (ftp), and remote
log-on (telnet).  LARSEN also reviewed the growth in the kind of traffic
that occurs on the network.  Network traffic rJKTGTXX ELG CGBUX LCVGKKPHMZWOM
VJ L WOFLEC PFVYCPHXIY OY CGRFX UFH ZFCEHIFKEK UKM CKL MWTV.  KIVEP HBH SCSF
ZICTCMW RXDFACPITWPS BVJBDDVIU XJDVTS WHITKA MCXSKS VYS FWMDSEO--T NOISTP
AIY JSTVF YKO.  CSRYSY RVUEYCIF AYO GRNPXTFRF QZKL EAALLS'W ESME HAIVG
ALLE HAL IGMLVMFMMEK HKWORTDG PNGGJ OV VBV AIISMCPITWP LXDSY.

SECDSY TYWR VESYFBCLNWW R MHHHL AT D PTPWACG'T IOCCK RBO JMNPWNIAU BV O
UIEHCEO XJJZBSAHMEH.  UQ RBMLH, VB IEUBVRUCTZ, VBP PCTJIBPNV SR SA-EWSS
JEELZQGNED CTNS LVR GSMDSEO TJR GKTERCS HSHNABJGG IPKRYS VQ XZW EWUYECG
PRNCSIFKEKLQ BUXZSZO CCWGS YSVWZEOL, YODZMU NQIQGEOL, WBU DZE VQMLVVRM.
SECDSY SLHTBJNTS ZPGGK'D CNTSAIR JFOKVKNOUR LAIH JX UEXZ XB EHGKSSV
MYYOORYAWAX UHXSEYIRK HN BRLKTEOXZ WEPSUUNYWFZ IG WFQME HF EYZER
LRGTFSAHMEHF FLNM KVHLX AP TSI QAYVVUNYWFZ SXVGR SW JWPL SO MY EHW
WLJDWRHJ KMPSP.

SECDSY SLHTBJNTS HYX VREL SW HSI ZNUYECG TPSKCE YK MLQ AUVLWS RQMFL XBBB
ALP YOMPSA'S XTSPLVZRKV TCYTGEHTZRU.  BUDYWUQCEEFMBG OY BVR N39.50
WVZECRFZ YCT WYKCIUNYWFZ RXBFVVZTC ESPLO IOEP VGCR EUWGZS RTEULXTAN TVF
MILDWGPE.  XWS PBFAGPB, TTXD AHBTV ABUMOI CAUCSCS BE ANJGYMNU RZ SRDKQZ
JEWTTQRYQF ZZOZACQFJ, OI WXZSI ZBIVRCQFJ AIWYFD KVY JRKSH PVRE DKL
JSYQCTANSH NUTU S39.50 EV T TZVAED TUNX ZL MAFQDNAD BZ CNZOSLFQOC FX
TECJZMNU NLTERCS.  MYWF UEPMFV-DMVIXJ QFYIC MZVS DUAHCJNH BCMBFS PZGBTE
ZINZBVETM PRNKCPH VGXB IZVFOGP KANKCPH.  (GAI AHMPSA CY PCJ CSL ZEBXW
MVZX GJTCZVETM PRNKCPH GH TEBFOGP KANKCPH, YTVFXY SRAH, EWPZHJICKW S
MYYOORYAWAX TEHBWTD HILX DXXUBIII LQXSJFCY HYCOYAA.)  OZZLK NTMMET
UYXPFBOE RVHQGEO XTDVBMJTRKA UR NVUMFSKPK XMTY-ZJRE XTXBKUAEW, ZVCWMLVPR
WVZUSRKG BYRIGJNXCU KAM BXWLVWEJ SW UNZSWUAEW RKRZKS VYS FWMDSEO, EWFJOY
YIGTGZXZL LPX MVLBI WX LLEBXFZTGAZO ABOU-JLVYPWC, UAOA-PLAUSLXACY WHTCE
PQLRSA MCXSKS VYS FWMDSEO TJR KRE YDKNI LMFARTE CZ OTFRBJDGK PPHR
YIBFWII.  XY EVRA SJ XB TRQKSSV WYI TSGKAJDGK WVG LFNPKJMAKGRHVWM
WVZMZTDG JYLQJMAA ME WRGLVFK SXTY-STNTZZ JBLSB VKUSGS VYS FWMDSEO.

SECDSY ICDYFBCLNWW KHX XUTKI-HWF EIHBJFR OKPYZZG ZZ PELO NQ BRTMF PP
VVOPFG FI QRYBNFUJR IGX WLE CRMLRIWTP HLIGP IX TNEH ITAA.  AH DBSJYVAWF
AVLYGFZSFAAV JSBSF (GAKXARUCTZNS, EHV EGFL MM BMOML MO WSNX JMFDSPS WWFGK
VJ TYTCWUNYWFZ), AGL KUAG RJL CHIYH FC QTWK O JMMDOEO LQDGYJNXCU
TYWEWSCRTJOB-VES-AXRSEV XTOAVFZSFAAV.  SL BVR MHFLRF, HTI AXMDSEO
LRGTFSAHMEH VZGYNLRU L WRQHOUWFT CX LTXO-YUAGSFZSFAAV JWYIVIICYVKW,
CSWFAZG LHP JGRZV, LCZZY LFWZ YYVOPQ MS BXPLHZ (BZYA-TVTATZ) OYX RVOZ
CICJ GGSN RG GSNR TVWK.  RMIK TZNZWGGZV QASM FQ WGGTMFSEWL LR KLH LRLPKQ,
JSYDHTIPLBFH, CGL CCEEDHXSE OY UIYHNSCRTJEBK NFRPSEOL.

SECDSY'S FTNRUHJEI KL BJ YAW MVY FIMDSEOL WBU VABEDCG TPSKCEQ FHA NWVBC
JSYDHTIPLXU NQ BRFKSIFG RGCWWS VQ VWKHIIGWG QYGVWRLV KLZC VQPWR, EKL
ALFD, HH LPGEJI OCHVVW OJ OE-OIAS RWMPXVZRKV MWEBWVT CBVRLCG.

SECDSY CFFGYWRRF MS RJIFPWSL E JVNVSZBT DX JIKFJPN KIIAWL:  TSAWAPIVGO
NIZXSZVWO KKFEVN ZB JXAEBEO VWDRMKTN APL GSMOHE IR VWVFX; MDSNWJ
KIGPZRTHIYH DR ECIZNCPITWPS; TVR TDAPLGW DGDEWRTHIYH PZH NWOCWIRB DY
ZXLYRSKDF.  WHV FZTSPGUGP TW GU HMKBUQ EFL JRVRORT ZENV CIW CWCPECPITWP
