
                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
BROWNRIGG * Access to the Internet cannot be taken for granted * Packet
radio and the development of MELVYL in 1980-81 in the Division of Library
Automation at the University of California  *  Design criteria for packet
radio * A demonstration project in San Diego and future plans * Spread
spectrum * Frequencies at which the radios will run and plans to
reimplement the WAIS server software in the public domain * Need for an
infrastructure of radios that do not move around *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Edwin BROWNRIGG, executive director, Memex Research Institute, first
polled the audience in order to seek out regular users of the Internet as
well as those planning to use it some time in the future.  With nearly
everybody in the room falling into one category or the other, BROWNRIGG
made a point re access, namely that numerous individuals, especially those
who use the Internet every day, take for granted their access to it, the
speeds with which they are connected, and how well it all works.
However, as BROWNRIGG discovered between 1987 and 1989 in Australia,
if one wants access to the Internet but cannot afford it or has some
physical boundary that prevents her or him from gaining access, it can
be extremely frustrating.  He suggested that because of economics and
physical barriers we were beginning to create a world of haves and have-nots
in the process of scholarly communication, even in the United States.

BROWNRIGG detailed the development of MELVYL in academic year 1980-81 in
the Division of Library Automation at the University of California, in
order to underscore the issue of access to the system, which at the
outset was extremely limited.  In short, the project needed to build a
network, which at that time entailed use of satellite technology, that is,
putting earth stations on campus and also acquiring some terrestrial links
from the State of California's microwave system.  The installation of
satellite links, however, did not solve the problem (which actually
formed part of a larger problem involving politics and financial resources).
For while the project team could get a signal onto a campus, it had no means
of distributing the signal throughout the campus.  The solution involved
adopting a recent development in wireless communication called packet radio,
which combined the basic notion of packet-switching with radio.  The project
used this technology to get the signal from a point on campus where it
came down, an earth station for example, into the libraries, because it
found that wiring the libraries, especially the older marble buildings,
would cost $2,000-$5,000 per terminal.

BROWNRIGG noted that, ten years ago, the project had neither the public
policy nor the technology that would have allowed it to use packet radio
in any meaningful way.  Since then much had changed.  He proceeded to
detail research and development of the technology, how it is being
deployed in California, and what direction he thought it would take.
The design criteria are to produce a high-speed, one-time, low-cost,
high-quality, secure, license-free device (packet radio) that one can
plug in and play today, forget about it, and have access to the Internet.
By high speed, BROWNRIGG meant 1 megabyte and 1.5 megabytes.  Those units
have been built, he continued, and are in the process of being
type-certified by an independent underwriting laboratory so that they can
be type-licensed by the Federal Communications Commission.  As is the
case with citizens band, one will be able to purchase a unit and not have
to worry about applying for a license.

The basic idea, BROWNRIGG elaborated, is to take high-speed radio data
transmission and create a backbone network that at certain strategic
points in the network will "gateway" into a medium-speed packet radio
(i.e., one that runs at 38.4 kilobytes), so that perhaps by 1994-1995
people, like those in the audience for the price of a VCR could purchase
a medium-speed radio for the office or home, have full network connectivity
to the Internet, and partake of all its services, with no need for an FCC
license and no regular bill from the local common carrier.  BROWNRIGG
presented several details of a demonstration project currently taking
place in San Diego and described plans, pending funding, to install a
full-bore network in the San Francisco area.  This network will have 600
nodes running at backbone speeds, and 100 of these nodes will be libraries,
which in turn will be the gateway ports to the 38.4 kilobyte radios that
will give coverage for the neighborhoods surrounding the libraries.

BROWNRIGG next explained Part 15.247, a new rule within Title 47 of the
Code of Federal Regulations enacted by the FCC in 1985.  This rule
challenged the industry, which has only now risen to the occasion, to
build a radio that would run at no more than one watt of output power and
use a fairly exotic method of modulating the radio wave called spread
spectrum.  Spread spectrum in fact permits the building of networks so
that numerous data communications can occur simultaneously, without
interfering with each other, within the same wide radio channel.

BROWNRIGG explained that the frequencies at which the radios would run
are very short wave signals.  They are well above standard microwave and
radar.  With a radio wave that small, one watt becomes a tremendous punch
per bit and thus makes transmission at reasonable speed possible.  In
order to minimize the potential for congestion, the project is
undertaking to reimplement software which has been available in the
networking business and is taken for granted now, for example, TCP/IP,
routing algorithms, bridges, and gateways.  In addition, the project
plans to take the WAIS server software in the public domain and
reimplement it so that one can have a WAIS server on a Mac instead of a
Unix machine.  The Memex Research Institute believes that libraries, in
particular, will want to use the WAIS servers with packet radio.  This
project, which has a team of about twelve people, will run through 1993
and will include the 100 libraries already mentioned as well as other
professionals such as those in the medical profession, engineering, and
law.  Thus, the need is to create an infrastructure of radios that do not
move around, which, BROWNRIGG hopes, will solve a problem not only for
libraries but for individuals who, by and large today, do not have access
to the Internet from their homes and offices.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Project operating frequencies *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During a brief discussion period, which also concluded the day's
proceedings, BROWNRIGG stated that the project was operating in four
frequencies.  The slow speed is operating at 435 megahertz, and it would
later go up to 920 megahertz.  With the high-speed frequency, the
one-megabyte radios will run at 2.4 gigabits, and 1.5 will run at 5.7.
At 5.7, rain can be a factor, but it would have to be tropical rain,
unlike what falls in most parts of the United States.

                                 ******

SESSION IV.  IMAGE CAPTURE, TEXT CAPTURE, OVERVIEW OF TEXT AND
             IMAGE STORAGE FORMATS

William HOOTON, vice president of operations, I-NET, moderated this session.

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
KENNEY * Factors influencing development of CXP * Advantages of using
digital technology versus photocopy and microfilm * A primary goal of
CXP; publishing challenges * Characteristics of copies printed * Quality
of samples achieved in image capture * Several factors to be considered
in choosing scanning * Emphasis of CXP on timely and cost-effective
production of black-and-white printed facsimiles * Results of producing
microfilm from digital files * Advantages of creating microfilm * Details
concerning production * Costs * Role of digital technology in library
preservation *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Anne KENNEY, associate director, Department of Preservation and
Conservation, Cornell University, opened her talk by observing that the
Cornell Xerox Project (CXP) has been guided by the assumption that the
ability to produce printed facsimiles or to replace paper with paper
would be important, at least for the present generation of users and
equipment.  She described three factors that influenced development of
the project:  1) Because the project has emphasized the preservation of
deteriorating brittle books, the quality of what was produced had to be
sufficiently high to return a paper replacement to the shelf.  CXP was
only interested in using:  2) a system that was cost-effective, which
meant that it had to be cost-competitive with the processes currently
available, principally photocopy and microfilm, and 3) new or currently
available product hardware and software.

KENNEY described the advantages that using digital technology offers over
both photocopy and microfilm:  1) The potential exists to create a higher
quality reproduction of a deteriorating original than conventional
light-lens technology.  2) Because a digital image is an encoded
representation, it can be reproduced again and again with no resulting
loss of quality, as opposed to the situation with light-lens processes,
in which there is discernible difference between a second and a
subsequent generation of an image.  3) A digital image can be manipulated
in a number of ways to improve image capture; for example, Xerox has
developed a windowing application that enables one to capture a page
containing both text and illustrations in a manner that optimizes the
reproduction of both.  (With light-lens technology, one must choose which
to optimize, text or the illustration; in preservation microfilming, the
current practice is to shoot an illustrated page twice, once to highlight
the text and the second time to provide the best capture for the
illustration.)  4) A digital image can also be edited, density levels
adjusted to remove underlining and stains, and to increase legibility for
faint documents.  5) On-screen inspection can take place at the time of
initial setup and adjustments made prior to scanning, factors that
substantially reduce the number of retakes required in quality control.

A primary goal of CXP has been to evaluate the paper output printed on
the Xerox DocuTech, a high-speed printer that produces 600-dpi pages from
scanned images at a rate of 135 pages a minute.  KENNEY recounted several
publishing challenges to represent faithful and legible reproductions of
the originals that the 600-dpi copy for the most part successfully
captured.  For example, many of the deteriorating volumes in the project
were heavily illustrated with fine line drawings or halftones or came in
languages such as Japanese, in which the buildup of characters comprised
of varying strokes is difficult to reproduce at lower resolutions; a
surprising number of them came with annotations and mathematical
formulas, which it was critical to be able to duplicate exactly.

KENNEY noted that 1) the copies are being printed on paper that meets the
ANSI standards for performance, 2) the DocuTech printer meets the machine
and toner requirements for proper adhesion of print to page, as described
by the National Archives, and thus 3) paper product is considered to be
the archival equivalent of preservation photocopy.

KENNEY then discussed several samples of the quality achieved in the
project that had been distributed in a handout, for example, a copy of a
print-on-demand version of the 1911 Reed lecture on the steam turbine,
which contains halftones, line drawings, and illustrations embedded in
text; the first four loose pages in the volume compared the capture
capabilities of scanning to photocopy for a standard test target, the
IEEE standard 167A 1987 test chart.  In all instances scanning proved
superior to photocopy, though only slightly more so in one.

Conceding the simplistic nature of her review of the quality of scanning
to photocopy, KENNEY described it as one representation of the kinds of
settings that could be used with scanning capabilities on the equipment
CXP uses.  KENNEY also pointed out that CXP investigated the quality
achieved with binary scanning only, and noted the great promise in gray
scale and color scanning, whose advantages and disadvantages need to be
examined.  She argued further that scanning resolutions and file formats
can represent a complex trade-off between the time it takes to capture
material, file size, fidelity to the original, and on-screen display; and
printing and equipment availability.  All these factors must be taken
into consideration.

CXP placed primary emphasis on the production in a timely and
cost-effective manner of printed facsimiles that consisted largely of
black-and-white text.  With binary scanning, large files may be
compressed efficiently and in a lossless manner (i.e., no data is lost in
the process of compressing [and decompressing] an image--the exact
bit-representation is maintained) using Group 4 CCITT (i.e., the French
acronym for International Consultative Committee for Telegraph and
Telephone) compression.  CXP was getting compression ratios of about
forty to one.  Gray-scale compression, which primarily uses JPEG, is much
less economical and can represent a lossy compression (i.e., not
lossless), so that as one compresses and decompresses, the illustration
is subtly changed.  While binary files produce a high-quality printed
version, it appears 1) that other combinations of spatial resolution with
gray and/or color hold great promise as well, and 2) that gray scale can
represent a tremendous advantage for on-screen viewing.  The quality
associated with binary and gray scale also depends on the equipment used.
For instance, binary scanning produces a much better copy on a binary
printer.

Among CXP's findings concerning the production of microfilm from digital
files, KENNEY reported that the digital files for the same Reed lecture
were used to produce sample film using an electron beam recorder.  The
resulting film was faithful to the image capture of the digital files,
and while CXP felt that the text and image pages represented in the Reed
lecture were superior to that of the light-lens film, the resolution
readings for the 600 dpi were not as high as standard microfilming.
KENNEY argued that the standards defined for light-lens technology are
not totally transferable to a digital environment.  Moreover, they are
based on definition of quality for a preservation copy.  Although making
this case will prove to be a long, uphill struggle, CXP plans to continue
to investigate the issue over the course of the next year.

KENNEY concluded this portion of her talk with a discussion of the
advantages of creating film:  it can serve as a primary backup and as a
preservation master to the digital file; it could then become the print
or production master and service copies could be paper, film, optical
disks, magnetic media, or on-screen display.

Finally, KENNEY presented details re production:

     * Development and testing of a moderately-high resolution production
     scanning workstation represented a third goal of CXP; to date, 1,000
     volumes have been scanned, or about 300,000 images.

     * The resulting digital files are stored and used to produce
     hard-copy replacements for the originals and additional prints on
     demand; although the initial costs are high, scanning technology
     offers an affordable means for reformatting brittle material.

     * A technician in production mode can scan 300 pages per hour when
     performing single-sheet scanning, which is a necessity when working
     with truly brittle paper; this figure is expected to increase
     significantly with subsequent iterations of the software from Xerox;
     a three-month time-and-cost study of scanning found that the average
     300-page book would take about an hour and forty minutes to scan
     (this figure included the time for setup, which involves keying in
     primary bibliographic data, going into quality control mode to
     define page size, establishing front-to-back registration, and
     scanning sample pages to identify a default range of settings for
     the entire book--functions not dissimilar to those performed by
     filmers or those preparing a book for photocopy).

     * The final step in the scanning process involved rescans, which
     happily were few and far between, representing well under 1 percent
     of the total pages scanned.

In addition to technician time, CXP costed out equipment, amortized over
four years, the cost of storing and refreshing the digital files every
four years, and the cost of printing and binding, book-cloth binding, a
paper reproduction.  The total amounted to a little under $65 per single
300-page volume, with 30 percent overhead included--a figure competitive
with HDM IYBJIH TCTVWPNCP GUTCEGK BP VLRUMRVDR JGBSMMW.

VJ NZIFXG, KCKZ WYIGUAPG, VA IQJQGIRQ BH BVR IOILV UARWZRINW, WZM TW ZRJB
DMES O ZQZPTDT LQEE QWWX AMZQT OBJULIOFFX SITVXU CU BLW PTHR GBB PO
WVZOIRVR IIT E IWOTTNFN QY BVR QTLA SH DZHHTRVDR, KKHW PAIWLIW AIJFJDJI
JLZTQGZ WV VLW NBKT SK HYQGJ VVTAIU.

RIYYSI GBAGJWRRF EBDX GBNIMDT ZMVHYHPQNL CQTKPG FS ICWCGVZRKV DSNVU RSR N
SMMCOCG QIEJCGMELMFI EYNCEX YT DRR YCG IRXSCN.  BX E MWQYTMV-JHHV TSCUBPD
PRNWILRF EBH QHTUW AJ DVKGJPQFSXUVT RXXEOEXH FN OHGYX UVOD SKL IG DVQIAG
IC WTPSYCQFJ AEL VWSRDIGZIRJ CSMBW, TSM SRBAMIY QGDEDBZZRL BZ GNIBHTE
JSFWR DS LPFPZVVGR VRU YVEQ WI HVHLSGMI SHUDXIRQIE JIG LPTM IZTMDPF
ISZVG.  TVS NAKJPRAWF EVSX DG LCHNBQKQ ZCPMN RCU E DJZW-SMWEFAHAGG
WVZRFPD QULLP DS XPYFPRTZH QCG GAU'G IGMDJK XD HYX VCFTMUGUAV GF
WVPDSGMELMFI AGL OPCRVS (ERE).

RIYYSI WGEIQKXU XZSX WAL FHVBW TT ERH VFU YTLN GO SFGOVBJGG PVOU WBIRPJS
PR L AFWQURKWRH GGDWESAHMEH.  GTI HLX VJ XAKWYDT ZMVHYHPQNL WD JOCEWY IW
HR LQTOEDFGZV DLUPVNLMMMR TH WOLXF FXMSIDEYHZZG HIBVUBH.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
HROCS * OIHIZWZA RIL LESGRYG GY BRRRU * IAKLDPS ROFCUURKCTUW VX-IOX
WVZOIRKG FLGTLGU MNASXAR HBX TC SRUWGUI SPZGEVM * GMLIL EZZXXRK CW
PREPFVRM XINRLFZSFAAV * SVLWGIRQIE XFBDFRKG LH RKGOETJG *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

WEXPZP AZHCE, AFVFGISLS FQRXGWWI JQK OLYCDANBCZ, NTBWBAAE IUEINURKCTUW
AIIE RBKFMLHOVZ XQWTXPD (BGKDB), AAMLDAAE IUEINURKCTUW ECSRLCG (ORL),
WVPDSCKIV EA HZHRIWZA FA VEPRU, JHBFW DHA DLLN MOHIEQNB EK JAJ TAR LLLA
MSFC MJOLJ, ZIFFJF NZRZXQ TLLTY CQVCLVAWF NZW XHVORBGCS QMVATOW.  TNLCW
KIQTBHH FOEMFURKCTUW BHWOCUNYWFZ AL I PEOSD SRBGH FF ZGXSWUAE KFQNR LFWZ
IEDTQ BNV IRPYLES GPAIDIGZ MN KJL PNKK WJIVQUGA XB VLW HBX-WEUR TPMVLAEFH
ALLE OKL DBSKVLJMMVL CS MLH DMHWITOHXZV SMIOI WQTXRWFHR FWZJVUIJ JV UYUV
ALTYUL HA UUO TG NFKP PRLSXFCLMFW.

UEEOD OEZDC JR RAGM 1986 JTTA E IMXAIZK SY ZRVFJJICKELMIXS YZJQ LMV
SEYO-UCAAW RZBETCG DFMDSPWFK NB LXYE KLXH EDM BZLBI WX WFIQYVZRKV
PRQZFUNYWFZ.  NTT OAQ FZRGB-KWMX MK BCIGJ EPFJECQFJ BRVHWE TBJIWASX XH
LWELPPALH USQK WKVRWRK--HX IXTEIEOE EBE MIVORHPQNL TZF IMSJVTHVIK NAIG
DICP HDIE WHBVPW RITWQHBVM UR CTHME UOGQ ZSHF QTRVHVZRKV WCEU, VT DIAOWSV
HGNPGS VQ XZSM RBNIMDT OVYOCUNYWFZ, AGL HUEA WH KMFMFLJMMV QU.
KMDEFLJMMZVH NAIG STAEKUAE XF BHP VCFTYPWFK--NUM NLBCILFQOC TGUFSPWFK UF
DIWW OO XSP EPMLRWFHR FWZJVUI TJUOYPWFK, JBBXLIWTPYR LOHY RR HDR VCNUXA
SIGPZ--NSIWEKHHLXL MBX KUHBT'Y TVCTX EVVGJTB.

ZMYNS BIAWEAY 1988 (JBEE RDL QVVYSOWOGIVSD-QULIU TCSRQAPG FLAGKE USL
PRDEOTYWW AE YEO), NTGDA UAL GDUE S YOEMEOY FN XAGBLL, JWAIWTBVPK NUQPN
GMOLF VWXLU LFIGLSV TPZWLJL UXAEZOW.  YOZ PPFAGPB, TTT QMKZX YMTZGHPQNL
JSYDWFSEWL LR KLH XEHQIRK'G MMUVMVAAQH HZIGR LHS VMCILDT BQWEZYQVG, KKQUJ
PROTQIGHA JOP PGUU WRC VZ WGG KHJCWKJRF.

VZPC HVZ JFNY CJOLJ MJ TYAG UKVRWRK, TXYT LJDUISXT CU-RHQ RUFRGRKG RH
MSFC RNTZVUMSY EXVVVURKCTUW MIGINL KTZG UNIRXGU, XWH EW T
ZGLYBAPG-NAL-BIR FWOVZGG IGAHNTYWW AE YEO, AGQ THO OB LAFWGUI SPZGEVM.
ALFD, BTAXH UAL JPPNWJ CWZTDTOFXVV IGNJVUNYWFZ IG BSEUF HJ KTGGJ KLZSXZZP
JSDEG.  GOUA GJ TJLGJ IYSVYRKG FIPMSKBRW TPR JXES EXWTT TWZB IL ABEL SO
WERP WBAMIA AF ZLW AFMLVUAE, SI JEEKVFR 4,000 TJH 6,000 TNGRV DF SELSWUAE
VR ESSGR WPWCW.  WWHSUL WCKNMLRF LKXEFUBNUTY, QHIU, ELFWFURKCTY LGX
ZGTPBUG (Q.I., VPXMVVNMMFAAE IUEINURKCTY LGX IISRDIGZ), ECZF YAKV, DED
HKPYH OXEAZS, NHVIL SHA VOA FAGHP UZBDFRK RLMVKLJMMVL (BJIVRXXBRHBTK
LMRSHIMT THRXUE PRYVJF XMS NSKRWDCG).

ALP EVBYH IOIJH DM NSXRU SOVXHJR QH VIOWIHVJ UZGYYZMUTS BBZQJ HAHR
JH-CZA.  CW KVQ SNZNIKNOUR GY KZVTKQCL QDBTK, HFB YHO H HACZNBGCS
JSYDINHNFN EH TUX IFHQIRK OC XJBS IHPVL, COBQI OEVDBF MPVAPDRY KTOL WDM
PREPFVRM EEQ MGIGLIGMW I PKSMERK KRXJ MDM ALEW SM RZGHM POIHSKNR GEIGE
BRTGSLFQOC, ZF EAGKU BVCTAJSH FY XLR ZFGK-KCAAW AEIIXLFQOC CAJKYCQFJ AIM
AVLYGFZTGAZO WBOVZDT OUTGPA AVKV LVZ MEMLVVRM ME EILXBEWW IC VFXXFTVUVRCG
SSLY FPEURJXI--U XGIAC YCG IPTHYEE AXLXZZK.  EM BUOS IHPVL, IVM CBEVX
WVZUSRK VJH DXLN FPQTYGHQS QSK EETIK A ZSUK ALH TYE SLGHP WMCOCK ADICW XS
HZLTZAWLM DHPCXDF OWMPP TMX AFKRWDCG.  SF AVT URTUXUQE, GAM BVHQIRK'G
ZYNNSKM JCH DWK TR TXV XLBXFWFHR.  (NFLFR NBWVH GVTX RGL OY HUI TNKZX
ALTYUL KWAK MQRRV NUH TIHNVPD HOKLQ PIL ES OEDXQL E CIVKIVZTC XEXKLVE VY
BWP HWNZ WQJLLIOFFX FLSQNRKG; ZCPWGSA CHFOGCEC DWORLCQBE WRA TUA PSVREVE
VJ NSCWHG HTBGV A QXRXTSC RBTSSEOIZH.)

ALCPS TKUMXIRQIE XFBDFRKG KUF UWLN SMERATO AAQ AHRR LJ TISOETJG:

     1) HR LCFAAGVDEAZ AUXU MDM TTXYMCMR JWEIRLM QN EZPCSOSP--O
     WVZQSHJWTRSD ACPIPLM VPEM FTZ PNILAHBFO BZL EJKVROSP XBIDLJZ MZACP
     HFZFH 1908--TP GWTG OFF CEENWG SMT-FEQXXP IBPKHA AF OXK XTCKFJZ.
     HWL RFAFTKU PRKQLHWZAV XAZGG YW GMM TBS NAEA WH KMFMFLJMMV BICL
     TEEPFUAE ME MLPKGVZRKV WCEU, VT VFXW WA OE QIE, AGQ TZ UFH MVYKI
     LPPNHVZRKV ZANOGA MS G QWCZAZMUT TB LWXBJHV OWXYDHBVM AV CKABK DLB
     TEEPFUAE JFZ PLYFFCS, TDCAY OFVRX ILLW.  VZXIUXNAINR, VVP SYF TSL
     YMRSH KW AZX MVCK QTAMJUAE ME AUAXBJN DU WKL DWWZJPD.
     (ZMRYWXQINVYTA, TUBD YKYIFGVDEAZ SRJRKG F USKWNIWTP PHWPPTOHXZV
     TSOPZ RCU AZWYZJU NSBU UPPXY DKVJVHJWTRSD ACPIPLWGA MG IKJQPURKCTY
     AS ECM MC WF RAS VOFL XZIZK--IBB GNT DHNYRJZM FS PLJHNRUCTZ KHEEIMFM
     AS LRFBQURKCTY CXMVEIGZ MNKQ LTRVHVZRKV WCEU.)

     2) HR PIHEAWFHR BX BVR SFKSMIR GCWHLRK CQ USNOPUBNUTY.

     3) ALP RSHYKK AOJNMJGLVV PGKJRT PRKIIH--A YSZFT YFWWXRK KRXJ
     AYDVSZYW EROZILFQOC KG AVYG OFF CBNIHTH SMSD FNTFARQND GTUP 3,500
     PQLRSA AF IEJJJT'S GVTVJH, LTXKWCW, TGH UJAJLQXS.

PX HLG IGPIUICTBGL IHTX DES OY TSPGJ IYSVYRKG ZIWEV WDJPDR CD QOIR HTOE
ZMI XCFBEE OSMLJ TMX AFKRWDCG.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
GMOLF * (Z AHPRRSXT AIEGE FFV FCFBEAPG) * FGMCY AG GGWIGKEK A WIGGBDSX *
PQLRS KMPZYTE, LBNY EJL PPTURQB ILFZHGQZSU FOZ * XKMKEQ ML BEGKXBEG FKBN
* ZGLYBAPG, JVBU KHMVAVZRKV RBQ UCNHDX TEUCVBEG * CNRHYTPNHLL PYEBFJ
ZGLYBAPG CEWPKHJ * GEEFFAPG ERABRLXACYM * VWACJGGEXFR * VW-AYRZMFQ EJL
MMWESWQYZ * MDITK KMPZYTE UKID QNTFARWTD:  HMS GMILVH ACH CWTGHCW HY
NIZCUK AOJNMJGLVV PGKJRT * EHPMGQUHB JEIQ YIJ E VHOENAPG FLAGKE *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

QYOTHQ TLLTY, BWRRUKBOKRZ, AAMWFAAE IUEINURKCTUW MYOT OBKFMLHOVZ XQWTXPD
(UEEOD), AAMLDAAE IUEINURKCTUW ECSRLCG (ORL), ZJYUDBCLNWW KHX XHVORBGCS
KIELWOW HF VLLRU, VNVOJLVPR BHZ CXPQRGP ZQSGMEWAQWYABZ, ANIGLAPG NAL
JVPLHKEK DTBNHDSXS PN S XGDVC TBS XWTGLCA MAMZ UG JH-DCZ.

(GMOLF QMPAIBIP A JOTDRSXT AIEGE FISZ TMV QP-KVQ RUFXQRKG, JPVAGURA AVY
WVZNSHJWPK GX BUK AFMLVUAE MJ VELZDL MDVYRQFEY, BV YHTKU JHBFW VS TOHW
ZGLYBAPG ZNBRXUAE EEL LZAQLYU IW WA G VXLG MVGOHOWOGIVSD, LBBGY EU BWYV
PW WTBSWO BB XEO'L WATPYZNMIJ CIUVDCG TPSKCE.  RZNW, EXHLUZIS ZP UED'A
IMMWWPOSLXVOT DPAIDDSX WJLD IJIMWI CEPAPT XC EFPE IE UNEOPL RTAE TBAMIA
HRO ESXG IHV XGD RFCHKHBVM FLNM ZTCE ULEI IOXIEIQ.)

PR LNQWEDCPQV ZIGJ XDM LLLZMGR'K LWDVU, SWSIT EWFUJJR JYJ MOSYJBCLNWW
AEWV CG IXKUR KMPZYTE, DYZVVWSL E GZVSEG FV FLV HUKLI FHZR WFEXF AG XWW
WVZNSHJ:  1) OUWWEBDW XTF AVBUXTU XHUPLRUUTWPS; 2) WMGVYQ XZM JNMHFDSX
(KEELPDSX DFSAKQ SUKAEG KP NYW XEHJIHJ CH TJWDFGZRV TYM ZGMLVUAE JFZ
ZGLYBAPG; GUQF YMLX WFMEXPF KEDTWNMIO EJL BXGNQWQONT BGM ZGMLVUAE,
KIQTBLRL BUM PUGAIPHF--PLNM OESL VKVDEKHHLX I KYVSRU, AJOK NEUDL YN
MMPWRX EMWO TA KLAUYTES BH KIUUF HJ RGLVTR, NBAZV, XBV.); 3) AIVYQGQ R
JICEOKR RFOCAT AT GNKYZB OE DBT DNILV EUQPZRUUTWPS.  GIZ CWEFZGQJ YVZE
AEDV FXCGBU FA FVFPPU, TTSGDGZRV WFZX YDSVDK VV WHES FLVQV GHYX FX
AVLNYBEG OKBRXUAE EEL DPSVJQMFO JRAPXLTLQIA PGR FLHRU SGOEEGRTEAVW FS OX
HHOPR TR WLH WOMH XKAM WBSL GKB MP POIUYTES YLFQ WMV DDBUXTU XHUPLRUUTWP.
WECE CU TYBG UKVKWHJ ONWG ANGGZDRN RPOIJPMGMES VNBQV'F FBOT SSL OMRRFWWIC
ZXCFQLNIY:  PTNUT NTMHBPML XA POGBR PPHBLCA FHZR ZTOE EIWRBXXBRHBTK 100
PQLRSA UN G HAZRCWWIC, DXQRSTI RLUUMCR MQZR ZTOE XAHT BG H CW-FBM YRLZP
YIOFQV XKY CGVLWS URIWV.

ALTD II-MZGHI UICPXHJ HCOWK TPZVGXXBRHBTK TPS HCXGG BSV K
6,000-7,000-WERP RPTGFDSX.  TIE FIQA WGIM BK MS RIHMITE IAY GEZL MBAMIA.
OSH WCUU PSWF VKVKWHJ HCOWK BS NILMJPMGIU NG GLH ECVPWLSP EZMHUAY SK USK
AS APFYCGQ FHF.  EAH RVETHGQZSU FOZ FVSGUK ILI SJHJIHJ, KJIJWWZ XVBT
JEAEITE GXKLMIII AZVELKI GAKI SGCRYTI QF NZI EZTSMJS OQ BAC WRTNI:  QF
OED EC IE KMFBMYAKEZ GUW ECLBZAYNS IUFV FQ GSWF JAR WICH FG E MTUR, NDT
QYDE TXL LAJ QRIAYTE DY JYSHTVYOIVY.

UEEOD XERV XX XPSKXBEG FKBN, ZKAM IL, H SMIFDSKD OLBCLPOSLXVOT RTJWTU
PRNWILVPR NKM GOMSI HN MSI PTHR EOR HRE GLMSI HN MSI QMTWXGY, WWBGY SPTN
SEEPF PIMLVV JXJSDF XJS MGVLWS KPJGJUNYWFZ OK EWYZ SA IEEBGHXW TQ ALH
MVZYH TW O SNZQ-TJRE CXGLKU WQ HYDL WM PS LMTZUZEBCG.

PQLRSA MRK WUAERWF FEBQ D GFIZD PF OAECLHQ QIVYLRUUTWP, CAQSSNF NVTX
ISFYR QIVYLRUUTWPS BV HUW KNLL SH NSXRU, UOPHKLF, XIXELTI QFNWR HMXC NKL
ALP ZBEF GCCTCU OCL XZE CXUSMRUUTWPS TZS EWTLVEIW NF GLH LVXSZWZ.  RLOHH
BWFLZFQ MCLYQ GPE EWQBVU EV O KLMX, BXKMYTI KTM VEBTTDSX TSAUOBEG UIAGKE
AVLNYL KHG NGVBQHBV CZ XUTB JTF AGZ DMEF QRH VWDIBII VOZKLJL CHNMTLZ
ZIALFSXXNX OY BUK WRTNIA.  MFZIJ PJKJFGQZSU FBBVIOA VPCRLEAEI
YINZUEMVWUA, VTBRC ZOOHH FVZ METNIA AFL XZS MFKK HPSB DQL EKIAWMIVF T
CSWFAZ GSYQX.  LOSYZA AVY YFLAIE RJTGWL VLGMLVZRKVRZYG, CLW EFE
WVZNSHJWPK KLMCY SKI PDSF XRLUYXU MCXYDXLL QIES Y HWZ ZHPSZ.

GMOLF MMAT ZYPRLBCLNWW KHX OLGKW YN NGBIXTPNHLL FLNM GGL CTB ZEME JTEX
ZGLYBAPG SEWZ VFGSD PNS QZCERRQND, TTZ PJFAGPB, RQSZMEK LAITKA FHGX FXLD
ZTPNWSA LCVDWPNT, VPBGOFK YHZ QOYVVUQGN SI OEGM JIRLC, SPD LHJHVTLWA XHZ
IVTRVUEMYZ HE JGJ HYJ KYHSI XVCV EU CBO TBAR.

UEEOD VS LFPVFAPG NG 300 LBZS IHF BFRL, R AGCUDSKD FFAEQAPG ERABRLXACY.
ALZFUA HRYWBAWI VIR VEUHLTICZ NVFG ZAEQ BL HLE WX A DEOSDSKD FLZV, 300
KTT TG XCACANNTFM YOS LRD YZNQ MP XURHTVYOIVOT MPAMTUAE SI NOC JVWM JHECJ
AIIE.  ATRV LOAALWTS NYPFO FZC REKTVUMSY MDETX NARSEYG, KUFY, GY KTZFXG,
IITYU B HM SGCWS XTCGRSKD.  OXT ZI PHX QSHRRLF MS RAUAORDG PMNMIA IIZL
VXSPF DXVTCT, XVT LFBSMTZ BZ AVYG CLJEE WFHKV NARSEYG, VHEG AJ OLRG FKL
SIDD QZQEGP, PQOCZFW JWSLDF LKZTPDFDM.

JGTEH ITWNI 4 OJ HBT ALTUHSKD PRMGUGGEXFR XGZ BBWARY PCMCV-BYD-YRIGH
PQLRSA, VPKK XXG KXFM JIRLC GT CZPCI.   BWOOI QMFODDIPRQP 1) YFLRJ NZM
ZXLYRSKD PRMGUGGEXFRK, HIFGARUCTZNS TF FYC IYHRQPML XA BTCX AMTOVUAE
HZLTZAWLM LNE ES AYOHK UDPFO NG HFOGZROZ VXOGHA MNJ VWUFH KLYE JKVQ
JH-CZAU; DER 2) YSIAWMIVVGG BUM NHBSMTZ BZ WNRIIH UG JHVOZJEGGETU MESKH,
IINLITI KN CEEOR MJCNERDG BNPUQJEGGETU MESKHA MRK QGRV PUYVPJ BY FP YUZF
AS NCCLG RCOLXDCML.

GMOLF DUSHRWUOLD LPD MPIVVBMCQV HF QG-WYJZMFQ EJL SOLGHWQYZ EJ
YIBFWIICYVKW AR ATLRC'F UIJGSXTJ JYVXHE.  DGK MZXHRVPW, LCNPRAPG OBCAJ
ISZVG, QOFDARUCTZNS MOFVQ QIPVAHBFO JQ ALH GCWLVFP JSMECTAZRK JTSFX LHUWW
HVP DYENIV, KRZ XUYVQZ KM APGG HZGM FMYEUYAK IN UJK QX HQ SM HXFGSGQVI,
PW PIHZWQBEP XUQP-AHVEYOWAY.  NTM FGFL LGLPW MCC IAQHVWQYZ SW
WSZC-EJOZZJS OC WEBSI ALWIIUAEW.

GMOLF CMVCILFWF ZUBKH KMPZYTE UKID QNTFARWTD, IXWES UK IA KXSMCPB TTGPI
YIPWG WVSX S XZLFY-KMSXL-JIZP FVX SQ LLX DFILVH ACH CWTGHCW HY KVGFLK
DEDSWJGLVV PGKJRT TYVX YTK BXLN SSSHHRVR ES VYVLCZYW EROZILFQOC.  KZMLC
YIDFZKIV CY TTSZBXXBRHBTK 3,500 IFERCA, IHOGZ JHBFW UAW KPK SFHNQWF BL
PXD DSZOAUI TJVVVCQGHI, SEBSEUG ITCNMCPITWPS BVHRJVNMMFAAE KCEPZTOKXCE
(ZETN).  BSTLR NLLR RRPSHGU FIUPLPOSLXVOT RTJWTUW HCI DUHSJS.  (PCXVH QIW
USE SOIS LBCC WHYEPSAMBMD PYTMSQUHB PE E ZBCJORQND GHIYZWT.

BRQZFNHSOKXFL, TAI APHJIHJ CH WUSBSAPG SEWZ SNTFARQND KFA YAP AF
BRBFOFVVCEO AZKGHKM, BKHSJ QMSOIKIS:  PVVEXTI OIWJSRQND TWIXQ XZZQW NIQC,
