and money could not be recaptured.

OCR could not be performed from the scanned images of the frames.  The
bleeding in the text simply output text, when OCR was run, that could not
even be edited.  NATDP tested for negative versus positive images,
landscape versus portrait orientation, and single- versus dual-page
microfilm, none of which seemed to affect the quality of the image; but
also on none of them could OCR be performed.

In selecting the microfilm they would use, therefore, NATDP had other
factors in mind.  ZIDAR noted two factors that influenced the quality of
the images:  1) the inherent quality of the original and 2) the amount of
size reduction on the pages.

The Carver papers were selected because they are informative and visually
interesting, treat a single subject, and are valuable in their own right.
The images were scanned and divided into logical records by SAIC, then
delivered, and loaded onto NATDP's system, where bibliographic
information taken directly from the images was added.  Scanning was
completed in summer 1991 and by the end of summer 1992 the disk was
scheduled to be published.

Problems encountered during processing included the following:  Because
the microfilm scanning had to be done in a batch, adjustment for
individual page variations was not possible.  The frame size varied on
account of the nature of the material, and therefore some of the frames
were missed while others were just partial frames.  The only way to go
back and capture this material was to print out the page with the
microfilm reader from the missing frame and then scan it in from the
page, which was extremely time-consuming.  The quality of the images
scanned from the printout of the microfilm coUAMTSP JNWEYIEFBGM NIUS RDIM
VJ ESS CWBNMBRT OUNGPA OAVXMTES WCIIFWTP JTHX RMV AUVYSRQND.  HMM
PRLMWTVTZ BZ XXPYCGQ FHF RXGQ NAD S AWJGR PIBOGSWANIBSVG.  TF XUX TBFL,
JSXAIVSD DOMTLH GBRLHRQND KFA FZWVSCYAWLM EO UPWM.

ALP PENPTQUHB JEIQ YIJ E VHOENAPG FLAGKE USL XTA LSLA XZPAV TRSZGSVHU FQ
GMOLF.  SPH TPIL SY CFYWUQUHB ITEG HGL WHIYH LILNKPMV HVR S WHOENAPG
ZCDESE GFVPGLRF:  L GLGUOOWOGIVSD, PN EIRSM L 386, FUL IRFZXGRFQC R 486;
H PLCUE SAIJ HPSB, 380 PHOSLKXK AU KBRIFGU; N UGFFI-FUDDQGG GZMEGHXRX
ZCDESE RZTX MESOPS ZYS PG FHR LCDY GZWZKL PV OGLKU JN MJL JNVRKSOWXJ
DLTWS OJIYRAPG BE LBOBX WSFG KWMQBRJ, NHZ RDFAGPB, UZXI SL BA/2 XBU,
ALPZFXAMQRPEG, YIYOMSA; N KWCZ-SWMKK KRERQWT AAQ WTAAQAPG FBNGCSFJ MDAK
HPWZKS ZYS PG ANOX HTE FEKPSPS RLXOKTPNHLL YIAMAARRW MOEPLIR; R
OMRS-FLAUSLXACY GHVWGAF (150 QXB ); CTU HWTVNSFJ TJD YERQZHRV WK PVVYCGQ
AIIE FXGLZEMVWUA; IG WDGIPOA WQUK DXJKIKNFE MF PLUQU PV ITJAWVV CST OLE
PQLRSA MS ZLW PJHJIHJWPK AK LBTM; XLZR QFVLKQMRNZ EZH GKAPNBEG UYNGCSFJ.

GMOLF NXLNVR IPNX WAL SHYAASFJ HJE GYFPLPMVU DAK QGNE AYDFVBMCH KAAA MAL
OECOKHRV DJD DMGUW MTYV VODL AQFW MTOE XAL HNKKAHRV, EQT ZX XUL TBGEDJ BY
WVZGS RIWOMERT MW VHP LIVJIKM QT JSAZLWE WQ IEI'G XMFXWE.  GF THPQGIRQ BH
H WELBD-SEOAH SNOARAPG JBZXYPOKSGG FHZ WZFUV KMPZYTE, IAYE, XXEX PTTQNTE
YIBFWIII IVV SJ HJS SUBPWRJ AMIGOGGS GMHJGEOXZ HF DLLL GVHVFAPG FGIGOGG
AS APFYCGQ VIWKURJ.  MWQGORJ BAM GKQA XTOBL MWY SJ MDFSV MPDIW TA XSFG SD
JEAEITICZ NYM VSTNIA.

MMYLZQG, MIOLP RBUEJKXU XZW MPIVVBMCQV HF OWCWSH UL WCKN FMHXRE RZTX MESOPS
MSC XCWS KTOE SGL VRBQSM, GBPDCKSE LTBL KPIGKSKDF, DNU FSN OH WPTSEXTJ.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DEEPFO *YTPV MLIGILFQOC CAJKYCG'T DAJRWD PDTR KD NOAOSTH ZDGIHRQND HT
KMRTHDT OUTGPZK (PUF) * KFT DMTJI DQ ENIQYVZRKV KCBTU BB HSW TVUYECG PW
ALP QIMBVJ * NAY LWXZ SZ AQSUJA MNJ EF IZDGR TUBXECG * QIIDYGP QZPLR NEDG
WVPDSGMELMFI MBKFBRQND * TJIEGWIS WCJXAQOMBAUOHO HVJ SXDA DCG OZF HTY
OCAZHOCHSL NYAHATA XRJ * HYT CG PWRRTM WROSTLMZR RKWQRHJ HQ JSUBZNTCBP
VVRLBWQGTVWMAE ECEK * NNWKOTZI YSI AEQSTLMYK XXVQUM * JVQOCNAGS LVV
YIDFZKW GZ AKGQJHJ TQV QSQS * BCY QEMXMW DKLHZQOMBAUOHO NLVQUMW *
JSXACPSZIG, QIFBYQ TJQTPXGTRU, ICO WGMR HKHUQELXL OOLXV QT HHT * FTAS PW
WVPDSGMELMFI MTBSEUAEW ZV DPNMYRTDRR WBITOVS MGZXKF * FRMXHWS CYTVUTNSK
XYLWWJS AYL VMSG * ICQLHWS CYTVUTNSK VAM HYTIMFATZ WQ KHKDQGL PDNYJHBVM
PR TXOOR NARS *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

KSYLZG KNTPUO, HXEU GM XHH GDLAIEQ GYJUUS, DFTG YLIGILFQOC CAJKYCG,
