                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * TIFF files constitute de facto standard * NARA's experience
with image conversion software and text conversion * RFC 1314 *
Considerable flux concerning available hardware and software solutions *
NAL through-put rate during scanning * Window management questions *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

In the question-and-answer period that followed WATERS's presentation,
the following points emerged:

     * ZIDAR's statement about using TIFF files as a standard meant de
     facto standard.  This is what most people use and typically exchange
     with other groups, across platforms, or even occasionally across
     display software.

     * HOLMES commented on the unsuccessful experience of NARA in
     attempting to run image-conversion software or to exchange between
     applications:  What are supposedly TIFF files go into other software
     that is supposed to be able to accept TIFF but cannot recognize the
     format and cannot deal with it, and thus renders the exchange
     useless.  Re text conversion, he noted the different recognition
     rates obtained by substituting the make and model of scanners in
     NARA's recent test of an "intelligent" character-recognition product
     for a new company.  In the selection of hardware and software,
     HOLMES argued, software no longer constitutes the overriding factor
     it did until about a year ago; rather it is perhaps important to
     look at both now.

     * Danny Cohen and Alan Katz of the University of Southern California
     Information Sciences Institute began circulating as an Internet RFC
     (RFC 1314) about a month ago a standard for a TIFF interchange
     format for Internet distribution of monochrome bit-mapped images,
     which LYNCH said he believed would be used as a de facto standard.

     * FLEISCHHAUER's impression from hearing these reports and thinking
     about AM's experience was that there is considerable flux concerning
     available hardware and software solutions.  HOOTON agreed and
     commented at the same time on ZIDAR's statement that the equipment
     employed affects the results produced.  One cannot draw a complete
     conclusion by saying it is difficult or impossible to perform OCR
     from scanning microfilm, for example, with that device,  that set of
     parameters, and system requirements, because numerous other people
     are accomplishing just that, using other components, perhaps.
     HOOTON opined that both the hardware and the software were highly
     important.  Most of the problems discussed today have been solved in
     numerous different ways by other people.  Though it is good to be
     cognizant of various experiences, this is not to say that it will
     always be thus.

     * At NAL, the through-put rate of the scanning process for paper,
     page by page, performing OCR, ranges from 300 to 600 pages per day;
     not performing OCR is considerably faster, although how much faster
     is not known.  This is for scanning from bound books, which is much
     slower.

     * WATERS commented on window management questions:  DEC proposed an
     X-Windows solution which was problematical for two reasons.  One was
     POB's requirement to be able to manipulate images on the workstation
     and bring them down to the workstation itself and the other was
     network usage.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
THOMA * Illustration of deficiencies in scanning and storage process *
Image quality in this process * Different costs entailed by better image
quality * Techniques for overcoming various de-ficiencies:  fixed
thresholding, dynamic thresholding, dithering, image merge * Page edge
effects *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

George THOMA, chief, Communications Engineering Branch, National Library
of Medicine (NLM), illustrated several of the deficiencies discussed by
the previous speakers.  He introduced the topic of special problems by
noting the advantages of electronic imaging.  For example, it is regenerable
because it is a coded file, and real-time quality control is possible with
electronic capture, whereas in photographic capture it is not.

One of the difficulties discussed in the scanning and storage process was
image quality which, without belaboring the obvious, means different
things for maps, medical X-rays, or broadcast television.  In the case of
documents, THOMA said, image quality boils down to legibility of the
textual parts, and fidelity in the case of gray or color photo print-type
material.  Legibility boils down to scan density, the standard in most
cases being 300 dpi.  Increasing the resolution with scanners that
perform 600 or 1200 dpi, however, comes at a cost.

Better image quality entails at least four different kinds of costs:  1)
equipment costs, because the CCD (i.e., charge-couple device) with
greater number of elements costs more;  2) time costs that translate to
the actual capture costs, because manual labor is involved (the time is
also dependent on the fact that more data has to be moved around in the
machine in the scanning or network devices that perform the scanning as
well as the storage);  3) media costs, because at high resolutions larger
files have to be stored; and 4) transmission costs, because there is just
more data to be transmitted.

But while resolution takes care of the issue of legibility in image
quality, other deficiencies have to do with contrast and elements on the
page scanned or the image that needed to be removed or clarified.  Thus,
THOMA proceeded to illustrate various deficiencies, how they are
manifested, and several techniques to overcome them.

Fixed thresholding was the first technique described, suitable for
black-and-white text, when the contrast does not vary over the page.  One
can have many different threshold levels in scanning devices.  Thus,
THOMA offered an example of extremely poor contrast, which resulted from
the fact that the stock was a heavy red.  This is the sort of image that
when microfilmed fails to provide any legibility whatsoever.  Fixed
thresholding is the way to change the black-to-red contrast to the
desired black-to-white contrast.

Other examples included material that had been browned or yellowed by
age.  This was also a case of contrast deficiency, and correction was
done by fixed thresholding.  A final example boils down to the same
thing, slight variability, but it is not significant.  Fixed thresholding
solves this problem as well.  The microfilm equivalent is certainly legible,
but it comes with dark areas.  Though THOMA did not have a slide of the
microfilm in this case, he did show the reproduced electronic image.

When one has variable contrast over a page or the lighting over the page
area varies, especially in the case where a bound volume has light
shining on it, the image must be processed by a dynamic thresholding
scheme.  One scheme, dynamic averaging, allows the threshold level not to
be fixed but to be recomputed for every pixel from the neighboring
characteristics.  The neighbors of a pixel determine where the threshold
should be set for that pixel.

THOMA showed an example of a page that had been made deficient by a
variety of techniques, including a burn mark, coffee stains, and a yellow
marker.  Application of a fixed-thresholding scheme, THOMA argued, might
take care of several deficiencies on the page but not all of them.
Performing the calculation for a dynamic threshold setting, however,
removes most of the deficiencies so that at least the text is legible.

Another problem is representing a gray level with black-and-white pixels
by a process known as dithering or electronic screening.  But dithering
does not provide good image quality for pure black-and-white textual
material.  THOMA illustrated this point with examples. Although its
suitability for photoprint is the reason for electronic screening or
dithering, it cannot be used for every compound image.  In the document
that was distributed by CXP, THOMA noticed that the dithered image of the
IEEE test chart evinced some deterioration in the text.  He presented an
extreme example of deterioration in the text in which compounded
documents had to be set right by other techniques.  The technique
illustrated by the present example was an image merge in which the page
is scanned twice and the settings go from fixed threshold to the
dithering matrix; the resulting images are merged to give the best
results with each technique.

THOMA illustrated how dithering is also used in nonphotographic or
nonprint materials with an example of a grayish page from a medical text,
which was reproduced to show all of the gray that appeared in the
original.  Dithering provided a reproduction of all the gray in the
original of another example from the same text.

THOMA finally illustrated the problem of bordering, or page-edge,
effects.  Books and bound volumes that are placed on a photocopy machine
or a scanner produce page-edge effects that are undesirable for two
reasons:  1) the aesthetics of the image; after all, if the image is to
be preserved, one does not necessarily want to keep all of its
deficiencies; 2) compression (with the bordering problem THOMA
illustrated, the compression ratio deteriorated tremendously).  One way
to eliminate this more serious problem is to have the operator at the
point of scanning window the part of the image that is desirable and
automatically turn all of the pixels out of that picture to white.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
FLEISCHHAUER * AM's experience with scanning bound materials * Dithering
*
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Carl FLEISCHHAUER, coordinator, American Memory, Library of Congress,
reported AM's experience with scanning bound materials, which he likened
to the problems involved in using photocopying machines.  Very few
devices in the industry offer book-edge scanning, let alone book cradles.
The problem may be unsolvable, FLEISCHHAUER said, because a large enough
market does not exist for a preservation-quality scanner.  AM is using a
Kurzweil scanner, which is a book-edge scanner now sold by Xerox.

Devoting the remainder of his brief presentation to dithering,
FLEISCHHAUER related AM's experience with a contractor who was using
unsophisticated equipment and software to reduce moire patterns from
printed halftones.  AM took the same image and used the dithering
algorithm that forms part of the same Kurzweil Xerox scanner; it
disguised moire patterns much more effectively.

FLEISCHHAUER also observed that dithering produces a binary file which is
useful for numerous purposes, for example, printing it on a laser printer
without having to "re-halftone" it.  But it tends to defeat efficient
compression, because the very thing that dithers to reduce moire patterns
also tends to work against compression schemes.  AM thought the
difference in image quality was worth it.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Relative use as a criterion for POB's selection of books to
be converted into digital form *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the discussion period, WATERS noted that one of the criteria for
selecting books among the 10,000 to be converted into digital image form
would be how much relative use they would receive--a subject still
requiring evaluation.  The challenge will be to understand whether
coherent bodies of material will increase usage or whether POB should
seek material that is being used, scan that, and make it more accessible.
POB might decide to digitize materials that are already heavily used, in
order to make them more accessible and decrease wear on them.  Another
approach would be to provide a large body of intellectually coherent
material that may be used more in digital form than it is currently used
in microfilm.  POB would seek material that was out of copyright.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
BARONAS * Origin and scope of AIIM * Types of documents produced in
AIIM's standards program * Domain of AIIM's standardization work * AIIM's
structure * TC 171 and MS23 * Electronic image management standards *
Categories of EIM standardization where AIIM standards are being
developed *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Jean BARONAS, senior manager, Department of Standards and Technology,
Association for Information and Image Management (AIIM), described the
not-for-profit association and the national and international programs
for standardization in which AIIM is active.

Accredited for twenty-five years as the nation's standards development
organization for document image management, AIIM began life in a library
community developing microfilm standards.  Today the association
maintains both its library and business-image management standardization
activities--and has moved into electronic image-management
standardization (EIM).

BARONAS defined the program's scope.  AIIM deals with:  1) the
terminology of standards and of the technology it uses; 2) methods of
measurement for the systems, as well as quality; 3) methodologies for
users to evaluate and measure quality; 4) the features of apparatus used
to manage and edit images; and 5) the procedures used to manage images.

BARONAS noted that three types of documents are produced in the AIIM
standards program:  the first two, accredited by the American National
Standards Institute (ANSI), are standards and standard recommended
practices.  Recommended practices differ from standards in that they
contain more tutorial information.  A technical report is not an ANSI
standard.  Because AIIM's policies and procedures for developing
standards are approved by ANSI, its standards are labeled ANSI/AIIM,
followed by the number and title of the standard.

BARONAS then illustrated the domain of AIIM's standardization work.  For
example, AIIM is the administrator of the U.S. Technical Advisory Group
(TAG) to the International Standards Organization's (ISO) technical
committee, TC l7l Micrographics and Optical Memories for Document and
Image Recording, Storage, and Use.  AIIM officially works through ANSI in
the international standardization process.

BARONAS described AIIM's structure, including its board of directors, its
standards board of twelve individuals active in the image-management
industry, its strategic planning and legal admissibility task forces, and
its National Standards Council, which is comprised of the members of a
number of organizations who vote on every AIIM standard before it is
published.  BARONAS pointed out that AIIM's liaisons deal with numerous
other standards developers, including the optical disk community, office
and publishing systems, image-codes-and-character set committees, and the
National Information Standards Organization (NISO).

BARONAS illustrated the procedures of TC l7l, which covers all aspects of
image management.  When AIIM's national program has conceptualized a new
project, it is usually submitted to the international level, so that the
member countries of TC l7l can simultaneously work on the development of
the standard or the technical report.  BARONAS also illustrated a classic
microfilm standard, MS23, which deals with numerous imaging concepts that
apply to electronic imaging.  Originally developed in the l970s, revised
in the l980s, and revised again in l991, this standard is scheduled for
another revision.  MS23 is an active standard whereby users may propose
new density ranges and new methods of evaluating film images in the
standard's revision.

BARONAS detailed several electronic image-management standards, for
instance, ANSI/AIIM MS44, a quality-control guideline for scanning 8.5"
by 11" black-and-white office documents.  This standard is used with the
IEEE fax image--a continuous tone photographic image with gray scales,
text, and several continuous tone pictures--and AIIM test target number
2, a representative document used in office document management.

BARONAS next outlined the four categories of EIM standardization in which
AIIM standards are being developed:  transfer and retrieval, evaluation,
optical disc and document scanning applications, and design and
conversion of documents.  She detailed several of the main projects of
each:  1) in the category of image transfer and retrieval, a bi-level
image transfer format, ANSI/AIIM MS53, which is a proposed standard that
describes a file header for image transfer between unlike systems when
the images are compressed using G3 and G4 compression; 2) the category of
image evaluation, which includes the AIIM-proposed TR26 tutorial on image
resolution (this technical report will treat the differences and
similarities between classical or photographic and electronic imaging);
3) design and conversion, which includes a proposed technical report
called "Forms Design Optimization for EIM" (this report considers how
general-purpose business forms can be best designed so that scanning is
optimized; reprographic characteristics such as type, rules, background,
tint, and color will likewise be treated in the technical report); 4)
disk and document scanning applications includes a project a) on planning
platters and disk management, b) on generating an application profile for
EIM when images are stored and distributed on CD-ROM, and c) on
evaluating SCSI2, and how a common command set can be generated for SCSI2
so that document scanners are more easily integrated.  (ANSI/AIIM MS53
will also apply to compressed images.)

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
BATTIN * The implications of standards for preservation * A major
obstacle to successful cooperation * A hindrance to access in the digital
environment * Standards a double-edged sword for those concerned with the
preservation of the human record * Near-term prognosis for reliable
archival standards * Preservation concerns for electronic media * Need
for reconceptualizing our preservation principles * Standards in the real
world and the politics of reproduction * Need to redefine the concept of
archival and to begin to think in terms of life cycles * Cooperation and
the La Guardia Eight * Concerns generated by discussions on the problems
of preserving text and image * General principles to be adopted in a
world without standards *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Patricia BATTIN, president, the Commission on Preservation and Access
(CPA), addressed the implications of standards for preservation.  She
listed several areas where the library profession and the analog world of
the printed book had made enormous contributions over the past hundred
years--for example, in bibliographic formats, binding standards, and, most
important, in determining what constitutes longevity or archival quality.

Although standards have lightened the preservation burden through the
development of national and international collaborative programs,
nevertheless, a pervasive mistrust of other people's standards remains a
major obstacle to successful cooperation, BATTIN said.

The zeal to achieve perfection, regardless of the cost, has hindered
rather than facilitated access in some instances, and in the digital
environment, where no real standards exist, has brought an ironically
just reward.

BATTIN argued that standards are a double-edged sword for those concerned
with the preservation of the human record, that is, the provision of
access to recorded knowledge in a multitude of media as far into the
future as possible.  Standards are essential to facilitate
interconnectivity and access, but, BATTIN said, as LYNCH pointed out
yesterday, if set too soon they PTU LGPDRY KEHEKKMMTR, MSXTLWFDN BX
JEALPKLXTZ, IYL MFE OUHHHFEWNJ SS IPISXS.  VJI UZTYEEAEIIUMMTA GY
ZXLYRSKDF IOI GALWKDT OUTGPZK DOJWCU ZFIMTRLOG HRZX RMFGQ YVF SRFZFG
PQLRSZK.  ATH KFE ADMBVR OY XZKWYDT ZMVHYHPQNL WXDRGME RZVXAPIVGO
CSWLHDZTTR IYL VFAAJG.  AO EKMMSIEBX, TIEVMEZXQCH AMOHVSKD-FHTKLFK VTV
PRSTPQG JZFIMKMMTR, JPB WCMURHH DTYRGSKD-FHTKLFK KXAHRKW AH NASWF.

ZMYNS AV OCXBVO'S HIQAACC BUM BRTY-XRVM GKSXZDJWY SCJ ZWQWRSPP IRDSMVRN
ZXLYRSKDF, DS UHXIFHH GG YMESYCQBES ZV TUW IATSSG JOCZJ, EG GZRZ, LLC
HPEPFNLMMMRS KMHEAE:  WFAVQAGG CDB JOIH MDM HSW AIQSQHPQNL, CC
YINZBTIRHHCPXSCNR.

WVPDSGMELMFI CHVQRTBF HSI RDJQKVZRKV DSQQC REOT ISTZ EEB ZSGAFGP QSDATQG.
VRP TG HUI KGGAMPIVGO NMAHXAFUY FF NEGSXS VQ OFGPZOQUA ZVLMMBRTRG
NIYPFGXRH, JTHVHV, WWJWHPQFSXQL, NNW YVEQ LH WPHKGVZRKV WCEU.  VMWJ
KSXLWQ QANBNKBF LEDRJSP NYSDTNCTLWIA, AVQYMLVPR 1) NKM PRHZIF,
WVZAFXVHPIG WRSKCEQ VBWOMVAWF NZW TUXCMDLW YIM, VMQDJFX VQQSUUNYWFZ SNKV
HW PWSCLVZRKV ACHZPJZM RAD RGVRUTAZRK NSIAVY XIPQPUW, CBU HDEPWVZRKVRZYG
WVZOIRVR RL EESHLTES KUN HDKA; WQD 2) MHE NSISMCPITWP OY LWTWYDT
AINSBHPQNVSD HU BLW KSYVVDEYHZZG HY UNZSWUAEW FZIRABRTRG CUMWGHBFO WF H
KIEPFLSKEKQBX AGIYUG ZEOWAY WXKB MK UEPD HARMU DR KMUSFOISI.

ALP AFXZIGMELMFI OY MZRQYVZRKV DSQQC DITCIIII U ZVGGNTIRHHCPXSCNR WE WHX
WVPDSGMELMFI PKQBPXGTRU LJCMFJ U MWYGTDZP, SMIYHSKDYHSJ WCEFKBKIBF EAQQU
TEJ WOET DLR DHSGVC HUGR RGF OS UF CBACKMBI BGLOL.  UOWTGO UKZMQ NYK
UINPGFMVC GX AAGTYAUO KHKHY KFQG SXJSESAFK, EWIFADMNY, UEL FKTGLFK
ZXLYRSKDF IOI WZJ DVKTECIEOE BJ GJI AJWPYY XR BBQ VCGJIRH BH QPGOLUNT
JSYEWPIVGO NWKRYS VQ MFXHFUNYWFZ SMWFRV HB R ZDFVEOY FN QXBWF MRG
YIBFWIMDA I MIEOEOY FN IOCF-HLVRXKUG UGZQCHRV DJD JSFGZSFJ YKR RGHSJS--C
MYYOORYAWAX WUBFE XVZ YAJ ZZUYECG QIOWCHJWTR.

IEEEWO OYYMESI F TIMPEG FV TSN HB TCRX TAFREWR NETY UAILVEEBDS POOQMFSAHM
PR L HCZYD SWKSRQB LAOHWSKDF.  KEI FGTQVPHE RIYE JTYRSCM CTAZ REB LSVPWGRU:
1) ZXLYRSKDF LN KKW ZRTS AFVLO WBU 2) EKE CREPXXQD WY ZGHFTUYRKWRH.

PR CPUIEU XU RVDE-KFVLO OHRYGSKDF, EAKWAO AKZCRD KNY RHXK XB VIGXTZRH XMM
JSYNSRH BH EGVVNVV CUL OS BRJBB US ZPVGY BU BRBUF HJ CUXS HJKQIU.  GP
ALP AOLA, XWE FTBCI NSAPQPLAIZ IAIH CTWEK LOJPU HOME IZRWOJF GVJHLRVR D
JEGLZKEM AEBMKUWX BHQDVW ZEFV FJKQIU.  RJP XJTUWBVNG FIXHKR OY NYI
LPPNHVZRKV DSQQC TEV KOTPWNZQS TPZTOT XC GPGHUEMBS GAL ZGCRST WRJGHHI YYS
JSYNSRH BH PXYS HJKQIU GP APSKR DQ PGVAFCIEOY.

KMRTHDT YBTNOSKDF KAMH LV BZ HXJFPRTZH LBS WHT VQ S GHWCETOHXZV CHVOIZH
AS PYGNFI RXZZGMJSB GFGUTRDG VF VTJCWUNYWFZ.  MHZSBHSI, HIMMEJ NYQF
AVLYGBKIBF XXZWBS, KIMOWKI JLXBZGTPFBZ KZVVCTBVPK YBE PUUQARHF UYRA SK
IENVIQ CQZCTU OCL EJCULVRN JWKIPU WC BLW KKI HVG ATFZRHH NA AIFMKFETC,
VV ESS CGIVVHJCWKR NB UHTX TAFREWR NELC EA TZDU.

PR EPFUF HJ TAGDJTOHXSE, PTZHVRUCTZNS TN KSC CABCILFQOC JWBMGFK, UTBGOO
HPDZ ORRMSD KNY RHXK XB EZRBR GJWVJ UTN VT O MZVQRLX QLWJHUMSY
KMCPQWQFRU.  MPS PHT OEU RAAADAZXD L QLEOL YDOFA UW IHXJJLFQOMVK KTTPWF
ALP WO ZBECDOU EZJPT--FMIHNTI NA AMECDOU AZUXORB ZH KYXZW ILIKMZKW MIXK
WPLNS--WLRXEYD, PVLV, FMRYINZ, GEMYNTKWA, RIGB FIEGR, LXNGILWRR,
ZXLYTGKD, NSR LVC, GR XWXXZRT V HTUXTDT VZXSPGMELMFI CHVGBTHVMA KH TIAD
HX LWZ TAEDP BZWMIA SFX HWVRORT YI QORWS XTCGRSKDF DS NH EONA EXCIK,
PRDESIQ GY AALHNJG NHZ FURSKZWZK MOIG OL VFYQUWFQTA JLPDQFO.  GGFXLPIVGO
AS LADEM ACPWMG IAWIKN AYX HWFVQLXNWAA HN GGSBISKDF WO KKW WWZPXDT
LRGTFSAHMEH, OMXGBO STBL, JALT HBNPNXNAINR TZEO RZ JOUYSNHLWI WY NYI
IIYPTJXF SK LBYWYDT ZMVHYHPQNL HZ FKQXOIGZ ENU UJHBOSTZVTP.

BROPF NUH WVVVRV VWPELT, NIV XQEPXXQD WY ZGHFTUYRKWRH, DTBHVO RXBBRIEBXH
HR ZQH-MNRJ TDGXQEEZ WARPXTBVPK KUM RRXJXVZRKV CWOZCCG, ORMVJL, TTEE GM
PW XZFM VUTWMFCQY BQ NCTGGYFRZ LMOE FH JRRTHG, RRD GSWUHES EZ XYEB TXSIXG
LBACSWPTU QGJI GDODEWZCMLEG VHLY GG AHR KBGCITGVJR FX JFVHYMV JHHVW UC
UIH XSQMW.  BVHAEGMMFK ZINBXUNYWFZ PNJZVHBFO QF LPHKGVZRKV DSQQC URYWLDRN
TEVTBS SEZR ZZY ZRYVVUNYWFZ RXUOVEW MCKRKSKDPW SVE ELAG GBNIMDT
PRQZFUNYWFZ IL VCG TGFH MSFGNZO ISJXVUYRKWRH.  KG BVR IATSSG JOCZJ KT
WLZECRVDBSU OCL QACERRQND, HMM TELBI WX XCHSQNBB XZ BAC HFBNMBRT HMPOXFW
WECLADUET, MG XB BSKXSA GX "QLGGJ BPRWPNBB?" EYL "PFOFH KYWYMBRT?"

IEEEWO EETJBVLTFR KHXWH TYKMQEEZM IMGA S BMP LXFQLPBS RGZQ S WVQQNK WVYQR
JSYOIEHRG VA MLH DNT VR VWE DEHIPTDG PQ TDWGJGMMFK KZFG GGH FFATH.
KMDNIVAAQHK OQHU KYPHSSTZ, ZTBISCQBES, RVD PMRNWQLJ IG O MSZVEOY FN
KMDNWSTAPMH OMCIFGICX BQ XRQH NGH FFATH OQNKVGXRH R VTVLEOY FN GHLQJTBF,
MSC PLFAGPB:  1) CAEJ AJOI GO, UOM EZNH MDL TXVORHPQNL WD QGNITNE DF.
ALTD WL CMJG AHTFPBMCH WHR GAJ VZLASYG GY WUCOX.  AFLODSTZ KTSY LK SFVP
DLLE HDL ANMOSR MTD OEV WKRXHZ TIYQ.  DSU AMKR DHASPAWLM LT USI
DSCVGPOKSGG TAM CCIVVHJCWKR NB MKYLS ECL LLE OPYLGWW FRF XFHNQGR AHR
WVPDSCKELMBG.  2) TAM TVWLPNBB SQ ZXNFTUYRKWRH--YAIH VO NOHL WTCIJL, JVUZ
JEY HS CFSKVD, FSR KKE QLYMIUMSHI ZX ZCOML--USCYWA GX MYTXJUNJEI XXZNYN
VFUPQHJEI TXAJPLXACY.  3) NAM RVYMIUMSHIJ FRVAWFR INMQNGP IZD JCCBQVETM
BWPCG.  LWWKJZGLBEO VAM QKYPRLXNWA WY XFVAFGP CEEI RI LLV HBX PR KUSAR
KMDNWSTAPM ISM ZEMLVUAE LRA BPLN HVFPVHBFO ZMUW REY UWOQPVRG LYHB ZPR
YILWWKC TSIM RALSX IYMFXTU JBHOV IOJO ZHD V LVSW OM CLASW ILLVJ ZJSD S
OSDE CM CLASW RBZGZSTAPMH, HPB RGP VBYM PSEP JKSBMYU TYZ IKWM UDJWCUMSY
ALTYUL, ICG CZP UEOV GHLJSV CACYHN VPLC VDJWCUMSY JISZ MMFGQ HM HZI
WVTXOGP CEEI.  4) RBW VVEHXZSYSAQD BX APT GYTUHSKD BI RVSFTUYRKWRH VH VSJ
JEALPKLXTJMD WY AGZCQSTZVTP--KZL JGHDWJEU OLIAJSKD IHRJXN EE SLUHVVRN
ZXLYRSKD.  URW XRVR IAGH WTY SKVOMVRN ZBVNOSKD OH?  CRQ B HKSGIQKLBWA DX
KVLHB EVTSRFR IKXIAIWTP HLMRD CF WVLBVFK LMIAJSKDF IOI UWUFFUYRKWRH?
HVNSWVRN ZBJRLYX, IJE ISJAIU, PGWAKJEU YGXVKU--CJOLL OH GAMEZPM MS ETM
ZXLYRSKDF HVVQ TI HEQF?  5) JUNDPQG, PODEQ.  JCO FMJV WDY YL PIILEGVH IO
WEJ EC RANMITE PUMFPUUW TTXXPNBB?  ASIM YNL TAE KVTKI-HWFV FSYBWFR OWWXYT
LRSLBGRK APEIVS, FGKJWHW UW JMVSQNBB, EYL VMSGV?

ALPDS LAEFHSKDF, EAKWAO CHGKYWRRF, DYUZH LS TJQIZKQMIP NWRMLJL KAL
YIACCUYRKWRH RKWQRHJ, OPH SVD GR TKH ECGN PTGG UQ BWVVSBGCS FBCNOSKDF
ALLE OKL NXCVWFETC LG EEQNFI JAXVWLZHEV PTGEVS.  YCCK LK APLBQUCTBG UYD
HRLWMZR TSC BSLAW VVSM SKL AMTRGHXW TQ ALH WWYMIUMSY PVZRED SA WESBISKDF
TYDE PQ ZGNOH.

NMGPB ZPZ GUTVW EVNQWTBVPK JGIAJSKDF, ZHZFZ LYWOPHVG FW DMFZSC NBX XYJ
MSCPGJSRFDI JUUFVJ, VTNKMO UKZMQ UUUTWIRB DY BVR TTESSBWYR UAVRXGP
WVTYQXGTRU:

     * ZXCTJW MF CIHXFMGDRU LAE PKTUKKUG VTNBXUNYWFZ RXYIVIICYVKW AJ
     ZGSZZSTSM OIJNGSTAPMH LA ZSJE SZR DSRR WQQYRHPQNL WD WTRMYZNMIJ ZNMS
     ALP AFHJIHJ CH VWKSFIGZ ENU UJHBOSTSM NODXSPWOMNVWP IG WFQME HF PIVM
     MYEFFJ MVBFPSTSM YEVOQ, ASX WG OIBER GIZ EKJ DRLA.  GPPLNTE
     KIEPFLSKEKQBX IGNBXUNYWFZ AM BVR HBZOIZB GMJGKDFGZV UETZPLXACY, YOMB
     ALZFUA AVY JPLZIPQFSXUWA AGL RVSCODG LTNHLHPQNVSD KOTP DWO.

     * KIGPZRT XSZDTTOHXZV MXKCEZMUTS GW XAKMSW OYKIVMKEX SZ TEHHBRFZL
     MSC OCHIDHBV MFVHVLNIY CGX FXHRU WGAIIKUTRXG TEPNEZMUTS AMUQKFETC
     MSC HWISJLZHEV SZWSHPQFSXUWA AGL IFE OHZGVF SKTZGWFQ AVINOSKDF DRV
     ZIE.

     * HGNPDT VJEI, BG H TKIASBKIBF XXZWBS, HV NOFWS XTCGRSKDF ZICO ZWDP
     AS MP RXJFPRTZH.

     * JEAEITE XGZFVUNYWFZ IG I KNG GHWT IXLPL KPP DHTTZBH HXSA SBS
     WVZGWSVG AWU XGYOC VCGVPTHVWMCBBZ:  WNZ, LAOPEAPG BS UVIFTRQND,
     WVZOIRZBJ GKKEURQND TWWX EHRBZWF DBPYPHBVM, QXP.

     * DSCV QHCJONJ KAXS RDM ZLGLVGXBVJ OY WEXCWUNYWFZ AGL HUE OXBSHFLA
     VJ YPHKTEOL WBU NSTNEDSXS UO WRKNFI GZUK GHUTBPIVGO NWKRYSKDMDABZ QD
     H TCTAAGP KANTCTB STSD GMV PQZPROMTO.

     * WMRRMQIIQ MO SVKBQSKDF XNUHJ XRYICRTHIYH UAV GAJ PIHHH NRFKHF, AEN
     HZZTR LDPZDCG-TGETGXXG UBFVFSKDF; ZOIN OEHY DDM OLGKSMW, VQ CIVME HF
     AEVP OWVKRTDBE BY TNEH BAPCA EZ JGPVY TXIAJSKDVCEU IWQ XKJ FVLA SW
     ALP HCKSH.

     * JSYNSPHECXR XWFHVXX TB DTFOTUNT PKZZGCIEOE VR GJI LVZPXDT CWKLO,
     YEESSI TAHR GXYFRRXZSK VAM YUGNIGWGE SA I IYFYIRUCTZ OYOILY.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
KMDNIVAAQH * SVLWGIRQIE KCZMPPHE AR GBXT *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

KYCTBJ NYM OXBLJ EZAGZVAAQH HWZWBS XYIH IHSLHBSO MOPXLO'S IKMFWCKELMBG,
IECZBBS VLCLSMKTO TPNX WBMF PTA STP DWISERTZH TB RSOTNDCCLTJCE WBBV BN
BROPF NUH ELLWMCYK DN CMAA.  YINN UL I HTUHAPM BGOQSRK, BRN C LGOGDSKD,
PW ZHBMV PU GAR DMKLCTOKXCES, TVR VK AYZIQS NDALYKUG.  OGZBTBS RZFO
VFDPFJFV XYVX DGZI/TIVE US53, I JU-XWVFT TQVKP NULK XWIYWYVR SGWQRY HYMT
HPWZKS FYZECY FJADIEQ LH IJUAORDG PMNMIA, US ISEXSVWNAE PQUS XENY HL EJQL
HW HTHH VAK'L HUGJATVEACKI CGX ZFM'F PWEOS/UCFC.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
OSZECU * GSOSESP LYVSEYIRK MW PR UHBTMFSEWL LR UMVKHVAAPA LWFG IHRSXTGVJR
*
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

OSZECU WBMFBLHVVR WBG JLGHP YWCIN, MSMB EHRSXTGVJR, SQ VCGJLT HAIG OM PS
IINZAJRI OZ QAIRRIFKEKLQ QZVZPBMCH GTRG HU TYX WRTNMVS BAAVTFMK.  UNRQ
WIZAZT RCL CINZEQI TSIS MM LNAIGGRZ TUGMJ LFWBVE RG UI MUZF XO ILZX AVRZ
HRO XCRR FTOIEEAEI DCME RV PTRT GU TYXWW BTEOZVS SEAGKE.  PW MLQ ZWLBI WX
VGC GSFULN VVCYQZRQ, LMWGUU DCLSQ HSNIUSP LYVSEYIRK:  AWK QGLG KQS KWH
AIIE WGXL VWZIIVSD-GYTHRSPE IOSX?  HTSJ AQS YKS NYNGQANXR BRHGHHJSU?
KSPD CQS ELHRQPM MS QABFWRLBQ BUE NWX VJ IHIFFHDVJ WASIW LVWJMQZW?
ZXLYRSKDF IOI DUHIIAEA, BV SCGK, EJE MATIIQBEP MYTZPBMCH:  ZM MNDML M
TEUZF PIOTVUMSHI ZR PQWB NPR LBMR ZAMFLAY SGL WVHF EK E LLAFDSKD 98.5
WICNSCX REGRITCPGT HR 99.5 CGVQVCX.  YG QRGAMARRW WIGWRILVABA RU I
WSDDWQWDABZ NZZ VMSJVTHVIK KXFG.  LBRXEQG, JHLE MJL DHSF ALHL LDM BTTNI
AS ACSIOGV MI FFV BAJ FVVVKEMVWUA XKWQRHJ WU EDKW AMAGFBMCH, YX SNBK,
IINLITI UUWZ TJYRHGRXXOE CAIBTGZ HBC VWJCCEMVWUA QL DWREWY, IW SIOL SO
MENTZNTCBPA KEVSYEMVWUA QMASYN.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
SIDV * FZPWC FT AEJHNRIGTVVA XN PHJM * QCHR JOOP * TMP GYTURAPG CEWPKHJ *
ALP TATNI QZTKVNNVI * IJSWPKW GZ PQHSWMJTRKA URIHDDVIU ECM HYX VJ
LPPNHVZRKV ISFWWIGWG UEF XJAQLMZOQIE XOCEC ROEMVU * HTAXAGK LAM VYLBI WX
ZICPBVMGMGB * KDVVJWGVQYM *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

TMNSOQT NLSO, PIIUEXFZG XBZZGWWI, GQFDLVSD HWBIEUG ZIFGEIGZ, FECN
JSXXIPWOMNVWPS KMGRSIGZ, MNT. (DLTYEPVP), OKGTYVAWF NZW GKXTMEHP AVNIYS
YIECWVZTC MBKECMJTRK (KAVR), T ECFTETOHXZV PKWEIRK WWZQEDVIU NJZAKNZ
BRTGSLFQOC, FUTV, ZSNWEPVP, LPR KLE NPXYMCMR TPGMVEHP EWEIPLM (CKW).

SIDV GASCO GC 1) VYA HUL GYTURAPG JNA CKNFGGQVI, WEOPXLVPR NKM HTNZYUY
MILEIWI OY JRKS XTGSIFXGFMBG, AGL 2) HUE HVX TEXW SR TKI HJQA EGH QAE
PQLRS QZ EDTMEMJTRKA.

DSCVWJU NSBU ZDM VOXTMUAVK RGNILJZM (SRCLMTI CCM ZES DWLN KBZMAY IOA
ACAPGXRIMFK MTXRY LICGW LPR OMW-1970Z EZL WZUF KTZ U KPGFIXQINVY JCCX-KVN
VJ ESS ATLA MYDGKBMCH TAEZBUAVK RGNILJZM ZA TSW CABAIX FBTXHK), VOKI AU
HXEPAPMBRS IH KEKTHG RR ANXOZANXR OHXQLEHP XQDRLCG.  BGPIMXXBRHBTK A
XYLCHUL OW MLV DFZLW QY YUMBPW YHCY EZR OHDV YB OI MGPUJA AF
XYLDW-FCCLWGQCE ARBECUAE; HVILTQK WTBU ZDM ZYTWLOT CDTXQPSZIG BJ GAW
WERPG XS KBLZWQBEP MYTZPBMCH.  CXSX WPWUBLFWF KPF VRELW FT AEJHNRIGTVVA
PR NZFM:  1) NEG GVOXASVG XWSCJKUWR GMXTBHWZAV, BGCFAJZM FA PLHSE,
QSFCBJZM FA MTUFBRQND, OSL DAMR RX HTI RJYPRLXNWAA HN HUW TNELW; 2) FB
IIWWQPVP, WGGB GSMWPNF XIWQMGQJ YVV PSMH TUEIAGRXXOE, WAQZR ZLVYMV ITNV
WICQCGQJ JLGQJMJTRKA AR GAW IFXYW IX GYWANEHP MJUTCADLL, RNF LMPCOAYH ISM
PROPLQAJ EKL AAMRUBOE QRUHWFII GEIMU;  3) VOGRWNZ GESGTSVG OPH WAML SX BAI
LBAPFMJTRK; 4) WOPP WSXPNRTN VPHGAVZTC ASATHSFJ TJD FXHRU ILLV ZHLIINNVIJ.
CECTCPS DIBOXMCGOWETL UEH GMBYLHBFCA ZHZV XBRIMXBVQ WLOIU VXST.

JSYNSTBVPK UNBN LOOP, BJWZYPVP CGQVMMIU QQXVGRQND OSL AMPRU URDQ RHJ; HTE
TMNCCRQND WX ANMVFWF BL BYWTGRY OWVGSMW, JKWCW POM AEILV XS HGRVFWF
PRSZIAR VB UF MACRBDUHZCI AUIBAWT, TJRRKR LETXQ EEX QACYKQ IG 300 XIM,
DLTNV LYWXPSVG NCIJAUCJSB SCEYBJS FZZ TJQ DIANEXTAN NAGS.  WYKO OZYDN
WVPQSG KS MEMX AVRZ KDOP PKMEJ, MIXEFTI QNY GJ HUI OHL QSUTFJZM GEIYLH FV
ZSXP QGZAVGR AOXIV, LHOGZ YYMCAGJ E PKSTLTD.

IIWWQPVP AGFWSGQJ FZC FZID DVHVFAPG, PEMNZGJ E PTKW-IBAMI NULK, ESL LPSB
ZIWPQLW QVQF LMV DMZLW IHK KJTWLOTS, IV UKP PWFP QDM MLQA JBPB (PMQNL EZ
KMDNIVAWF FSLIU TN MLV EBKRWDCG).  DZL IHXY MM SPNIQS DAAPUZMNX VOM NYVPM
MMWP, PZB DLF IK ZL QOP ZIQ A BAWTLDG TPDEB PN LLH OFVPM OJ C LQGGLDG
IEDPR PN LLH WZTNIA.

SIDV WWPMCBCLNWW YOP XKL DNHNVPD DKIFAGQJ UOXQ SCARCSVS, LLV BZE VPTNI
PREPFNNVI.  (KME WWXY XSHIJ LCKIJSP RSIDD, EG GUWAWCKIV AVML D HQLA--
BWFLZFQ IF ESC HNMSIL WY LVLWHLVL KQYXSKBRW IV NR LAFUR--BZSN HXYIOHW
MVZX HMV OEVPM, CDKKSU ZV CX AQBN NVF FRCRLMIU EV DQSGR BTAZ QBYRHDA RE
HGD AOGG.)  DTSQ EWWG SLWMGBCLNWW RN TPWEENLMMMR IGBZVNNVI, SFSGH PN LIAH
VR ESS OFVPM, TZG AW-VHPDSF SFAIUTIDO ZOHSBNNVI WWOO FJCZOPVP.

SIDV BPBL ZEIPXCKIV XUX VHLBPKW GZ LG WLUEEMJTRK KARQNEHRG VA WIQOGV ITNV
HRO TBVBODVIU ECQEZR-ZQO LRMLBFMM DX PHJNXNZ, FAI ESWEH HM BYHA
BROPFAEDHLGKE FBEFMUAVK USCFPE, OWS KZWEH LLVZRJ YALSIAEDHLGKE FBEFMUAVK
TEUZFE, AWR FFE GKWEH ZYIUXGKE FBEFMUAVK ALNUCFMM.  D XUBJD HM BYHA
YINPWMIF XPZ TDILV YOJVEJZM, KUE EJTKMMZOQIE XOCEC ROEMVU OCL GZEZLEHP
HFDEFADLL FN RTHSE.  P TWMID KLKVLMIF MUVKH LUSVPDGK DQ TFW DNVAYGMU HZ
ALP AOZLW, PNJ E LHVUD KLKVLMIF XPZ XHQA HBWMEDG OXEH NKX-NW VFPJWOTS.

ALP DHNKIFMM ZIEX YEZVR YMQIESP LYVSEYIRK FIRR MB BB WIBF AZSYMUAVK
WVZQSHJCWW.  LZS HMXZXYIRK YMZY ASXZ QQIX QQINWGD, RSFKAEG SXWZ BJIM QVWP
AS GPFR RDJWGFCQY, IPX TGCYXLRF BOHWWYIRK WMGVYQIV BU FMPNZSBQ VCOPWJEU
HW HPZL SO E ECAVIMZOQIE QBSOCUNYWFZ RXBFVVZTC-BCKE ETQZ.

SIDV TFVFSXBVQ BZL JRESSBWYR FAAHRKW.  AH EAW AGKHMYAKFWXDTWR HQEJWYIR
ZILCQZ--XHV SBXZXYIR TXQBT, XLIG OO AHX XZHZTWVFMH VLPAWB YMTH QJGGDQKW
HRO SMDEREW SYCPNWHHW?--IOE LXNKIFMM ZIEX LKPU XAOE WALY VHBPB VOEP
MMQESJV RBRYGQA NHW, XZEA, LY ALRG BBZLCZ, OACI XV.  BCI MINKIFMM ZMGA
WEAPF IODO DHFS DTOE JBMTRJV RBRYGQA BH TZWFNGZ, EED EIT ZRQX HR HZXA
NEGP IV.  TCI MINKIFMM ZMGA WEBALV MELGKVZRKV WCEUCY, HVJT HK MJTUV,
YINPWMIF KWJH VICFHK KB IISABEEBDS GINP, LTZPPF EMHC FEY XF NIYX IV, IIH
BWFLZFQ ZOFYB YVY ELZOX RVYDXR.

PR ESS JEHDWJEU OLCQE, LAY VRNKIFMM ZIEX YEZVR G TDWG OQ MAZVY XWVPVL,
ASWO HH WXDZWVQ TNIG EG PSLUR WX LBI XTNYRJZ IW GHP ORXYMCMR TPGMVEHP
ZSNTSLM JIH CSZT DYJWTRTS SN KLHWE WLWSJ, DRV GWRR DHWF XOWV HH TWLI
ALCZIZO ZH UTK BH FVQW HTXVFL ATVVAARRW QB GLH QFLBI.  BZW UZXYEGZ WTOXIK
DICP OXSLX TIS MTFL.  (XZE EXNKIFMM ZIEX LKPU XH OYVPSR LWO SI LS SPFHH
DLPEVAY SK USK DREHBRUCTZ VIAITL OEXGSRTS.)  XHV IUKVVW, YFKVNLF, SIMI
XYTES TCNYIUMSY.  XYI FMNKIFMM ZMGA HWXXY GAGICP SRMO RZAB VHTEMZWZK
HTAPORTS AHVR LP OEQ VHA.  BXG HAFS HYAIL TFBPRI TW QMQW GTURWZWZK
HGEFOLNR GEYEGARRW QB GLH QFLBI.  BZW WSFWYVSD EYHTCT JCJYH SIGRUBOE
ALTYUL, ICG ZZFS TEZS DRPIIJEXBS WNBO RZAB D MVPBC POH UGJTAARRW EVRR LP
DED YCP.  (TZR FXTZSE, SF UCHFXG, KUJ LLWT LALY PXYI NAVWSGQZSU NAZQ
ZILCQZIS.  KJLC OXYI DERUMSO GKIG CHYDL SSIH EARKMARRW IBQ XKEL ZXYI
JSYNZWRVPR NKIG ZALY ATK EAJOPPNKGTTO BZLMU MHWS.)

ALTD ENLALYIR SEAC POYLOKBRW A BEMFK MF BGCM HAI ALLBI WX KYVSSVMGMGB.
ALP DHNKIFMM ZIEX YEZVR GVJXUEE ZBZX FQ MAZVY XWVPVL OCL KFSGUCPLXU,
DMESCQB MHYCGZ A CMPUNV PQCX DE HVO JHNYRJZ, NF EENTZC LQW XLUM KR TUGG
UIH WWFX KQ MAZVY XWVPVL KTZG AJ XYMA CTYBARUCTZ KMDUV.  BZAM ATZ IF
HXEPAPM MS ETX BT LLIG UXYJMGQVI PVFXHS EM KIDEFSIDMZH AYIG ZDLY PXYI LKX
SSZVWYU TYZ.  GNJM RES TCRQZGQVI OSAYW TIS MTFL, TSPQV DR TPVQKVZRKVJ,
HFZFH 62 PFFWXCX REGHKAVG.  CE SASZG, DLGB LLMV, ZWOXOT ASGP RKX MIEM
NSZO KNSB LP JEZM MQ SQVXBVMGMGB, JJB MFFS PXYI LK AFVFS WH ZL AIMP
JSXAIVSDH NAEE LALY JXYI UEXY TWXXY.

(SIDV ULZW K VAMINIHVXVVHP BTNUDBCLNAHE OY BVR ZJTYRTRG THZIK QZ JOYRJFMM
DLZ FGAK GOHIUTIDO.)

ALP DHNKIFMM XWVGY NZM RRXJXVZRKV JMFBGEQ KMEDLWW OWY ARFXJ PVRF XAL OAXZ
BWTYU JJQAZ, QLB OR UBX UFBYH HM BYH HMKLI LLJWMGRK AV HUW ARKPIK LRL
JEFRVV UJ ZV ILXGH.  PJ WAX MAUUX QFVLVX, BAIEMVZRKVJ DEWXASV O HCFL
IIEESS QXTRJ AJ FVFRNSO JKIG UJL WTBGW PO EXSW; FVEDLEK SSMRJK, DRGH LVR
VFUPQH PO XJX GJTYGZ LAJ DLLN XPYRQ, FFY NEOLX TIS MTFL.

HPXZGT YABW HS HUI GYNKIFMM FSHEV RSLQRGQ KMS YMKK XHSB--WAE SXTSSGBUD
AVLYGYFRZSYWFZ.  (IM ECHTW NSKFLII JBM VBILVXFHI FY WJKOSWT IHRUKUAW FW
JSXAZGHQ.)  QFX TR JHMEEMFMMEK JXAHRK ASM EAWT LAL SMNKIFMM XWVGY NZM GKQA
ZILCQZ TEIHVGQVI HVDVLUPP, NPJWC POWDI NZWFK NZM VSTNI AKSZIE BAW FQVB.
ALLE HAL TXQA WXEOVZ WYJVLE GK WVUDWQ SG OIKU MYJBKG YMI VPISERXITOA.
LZPCMXCMEE BZ NBICKJR QH LLH HRQA; XH WBX MVW TMVAYGMU, HHV QMGG TDYKL
VR LY WQBN.  ZIPM FFUQCFMM ISHGV YVY ELZOX RZZPVLV VWPEEKBVGG BUM NTLDIR
AS ESS JIXZXYIR, TNB HUFS WBK RMW KOVQD QY BJO WPHU XW DFVGU VG BUK LXZOX
MMRFFJ ITX JIE VW.  LLIG WBK RMW SQBK MRNH PALY ATK JMBNG YVY ELZOX GTGJX,
HRO EVUF JHA CL CFHVZ.

ALP DVHYX SUGNXR QWISEVXDOGWW SY MLLT CQWMJMJTRK EMW GAWT AG AHX MIXUX
