                of Virginia
                Dorothy Twohig, Managing Editor, and/or
                David Woodley Packard

            5.  An electronic medical journal offering graphics and
                full-text searchability:  The Online Journal of Current
                Clinical Trials, American Association for the Advancement
                of Science
                Maria L. Lebron, Managing Editor

            6.  A project that offers facsimile images of pages but omits
                searchable text:  Cornell math books
                Lynne K. Personius, Assistant Director, Cornell
                   Information Technologies for Scholarly Information
                   Sources, Cornell University

12:30 PM  Lunch  (Dining Room A, Library Madison 620.  Exhibits
          available.)

1:30 PM   Session II.  Show and Tell (Cont'd.).

3:00-
3:30 PM   Break

3:30-
5:30 PM   Session III.  Distribution, Networks, and Networking:  Options
          for Dissemination.

          Published disks:  University presses and public-sector
             publishers, private-sector publishers
          Computer networks

          Moderator:  Robert G. Zich, Special Assistant to the Associate
             Librarian for Special Projects, Library of Congress
          Clifford A. Lynch, Director, Library Automation, University of
             California
          Howard Besser, School of Library and Information Science,
             University of Pittsburgh
          Ronald L. Larsen, Associate Director of Libraries for
             Information Technology, University of Maryland at College
             Park
          Edwin B. Brownrigg, Executive Director, Memex Research
             Institute

6:30 PM   Reception  (Montpelier Room, Library Madison 619.)

                                 ******

Wednesday, 10 June 1992

DINING ROOM A, LIBRARY MADISON 620

8:30 AM   Coffee and Danish

9:00 AM   Session IV.  Image Capture, Text Capture, Overview of Text and
          Image Storage Formats.

          Moderator:  William L. Hooton, Vice President of Operations,
             I-NET

          A) Principal Methods for Image Capture of Text:
             Direct scanning
             Use of microform

          Anne R. Kenney, Assistant Director, Department of Preservation
             and Conservation, Cornell University
          Pamela Q.J. Andre, Associate Director, Automation, and
          Judith A. Zidar, Coordinator, National Agricultural Text
             Digitizing Program (NATDP), National Agricultural Library
             (NAL)
          Donald J. Waters, Head, Systems Office, Yale University Library

          B) Special Problems:
             Bound volumes
             Conservation
             Reproducing printed halftones

          Carl Fleischhauer, Coordinator, American Memory, Library of
             Congress
          George Thoma, Chief, Communications Engineering Branch,
             National Library of Medicine (NLM)

10:30-
11:00 AM  Break

11:00 AM  Session IV.  Image Capture, Text Capture, Overview of Text and
          Image Storage Formats (Cont'd.).

          C) Image Standards and Implications for Preservation

          Jean Baronas, Senior Manager, Department of Standards and
             Technology, Association for Information and Image Management
             (AIIM)
          Patricia Battin, President, The Commission on Preservation and
             Access (CPA)

          D) Text Conversion:
             OCR vs. rekeying
             Standards of accuracy and use of imperfect texts
             Service bureaus

          Stuart Weibel, Senior Research Specialist, Online Computer
             Library Center, Inc. (OCLC)
          Michael Lesk, Executive Director, Computer Science Research,
             Bellcore
          Ricky Erway, Associate Coordinator, American Memory, Library of
             Congress
          Pamela Q.J. Andre, Associate Director, Automation, and
          Judith A. Zidar, Coordinator, National Agricultural Text
             Digitizing Program (NATDP), National Agricultural Library
             (NAL)

12:30-
1:30 PM   Lunch

1:30 PM   Session V.  Approaches to Preparing Electronic Texts.

          Discussion of approaches to structuring text for the computer;
          pros and cons of text coding, description of methods in
          practice, and comparison of text-coding methods.

          Moderator:  Susan Hockey, Director, Center for Electronic Texts
             in the Humanities (CETH), Rutgers and Princeton Universities
          David Woodley Packard
          C.M. Sperberg-McQueen, Editor, Text Encoding Initiative (TEI),
             University of Illinois-Chicago
          Eric M. Calaluca, Vice President, Chadwyck-Healey, Inc.

3:30-
4:00 PM   Break

4:00 PM   Session VI.  Copyright Issues.

          Marybeth Peters, Policy Planning Adviser to the Register of
             Copyrights, Library of Congress

5:00 PM   Session VII. Conclusion.

          General discussion.
          What topics were omitted or given short shrift that anyone
             would like to talk about now?
          Is there a "group" here?  What should the group do next, if
             anything?  What should the Library of Congress do next, if
             anything?
          Moderator:  Prosser Gifford, Director for Scholarly Programs,
             Library of Congress

6:00 PM   Adjourn


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                         Appendix II:  ABSTRACTS


SESSION I

Avra MICHELSON           Forecasting the Use of Electronic Texts by
                         Social Sciences and Humanities Scholars

This presentation explores the ways in which electronic texts are likely
to be used by the non-scientific scholarly community.  Many of the
remarks are drawn from a report the speaker coauthored with Jeff
Rothenberg, a computer scientist at The RAND Corporation.

The speaker assesses 1) current scholarly use of information technology
and 2) the key trends in information technology most relevant to the
research process, in order to predict how social sciences and humanities
scholars are apt to use electronic texts.  In introducing the topic,
current use of electronic texts is explored broadly within the context of
scholarly communication.  From the perspective of scholarly
communication, the work of humanities and social sciences scholars
involves five processes:  1) identification of sources, 2) communication
with colleagues, 3) interpretation and analysis of data, 4) dissemination
of research findings, and 5) curriculum development and instruction.  The
extent to which computation currently permeates aspects of scholarly
communication represents a viable indicator of the prospects for
electronic texts.

The discussion of current practice is balanced by an analysis of key
trends in the scholarly use of information technology.  These include the
trends toward end-user computing and connectivity, which provide a
framework for forecasting the use of electronic texts through this
millennium.  The presentation concludes with a summary of the ways in
which the nonscientific scholarly community can be expected to use
electronic texts, and the implications of that use for information
providers.

Susan VECCIA and Joanne FREEMAN    Electronic Archives for the Public:
                                   Use of American Memory in Public and
                                   School Libraries

This joint discussion focuses on nonscholarly applications of electronic
library materials, specifically addressing use of the Library of Congress
American Memory (AM) program in a small number of public and school
libraries throughout the United States.  AM consists of selected Library
of Congress primary archival materials, stored on optical media
(CD-ROM/videodisc), and presented with little or no editing.  Many
collections are accompanied by electronic introductions and user's guides
offering background information and historical context.  Collections
represent a variety of formats including photographs, graphic arts,
motion pictures, recorded sound, music, broadsides and manuscripts,
books, and pamphlets.

In 1991, the Library of Congress began a nationwide evaluation of AM in
different types of institutions.  Test sites include public libraries,
elementary and secondary school libraries, college and university
libraries, state libraries, and special libraries.  Susan VECCIA and
Joanne FREEMAN will discuss their observations on the use of AM by the
nonscholarly community, using evidence gleaned from this ongoing
evaluation effort.

VECCIA will comment on the overall goals of the evaluation project, and
the types of public and school libraries included in this study.  Her
comments on nonscholarly use of AM will focus on the public library as a
cultural and community institution, often bridging the gap between formal
and informal education.  FREEMAN will discuss the use of AM in school
libraries.  Use by students and teachers has revealed some broad
questions about the use of electronic resources, as well as definite
benefits gained by the "nonscholar."  Topics will include the problem of
grasping content and context in an electronic environment, the stumbling
blocks created by "new" technologies, and the unique skills and interests
awakened through use of electronic resources.

SESSION II

Elli MYLONAS             The Perseus Project:  Interactive Sources and
                         Studies in Classical Greece

The Perseus Project (5) has just released Perseus 1.0, the first publicly
available version of its hypertextual database of multimedia materials on
classical Greece.  Perseus is designed to be used by a wide audience,
comprised of readers at the student and scholar levels.  As such, it must
be able to locate information using different strategies, and it must
contain enough detail to serve the different needs of its users.  In
addition, it must be delivered so that it is affordable to its target
audience.  [These problems and the solutions we chose are described in
Mylonas, "An Interface to Classical Greek Civilization," JASIS 43:2,
March 1992.]

In order to achieve its objective, the project staff decided to make a
conscious separation between selecting and converting textual, database,
and image data on the one hand, and putting it into a delivery system on
the other.  That way, it is possible to create the electronic data
without thinking about the restrictions of the delivery system.  We have
made a great effort to choose system-independent formats for our data,
and to put as much thought and work as possible into structuring it so
that the translation from paper to electronic form will enhance the value
of the data. [A discussion of these solutions as of two years ago is in
Elli Mylonas, Gregory Crane, Kenneth Morrell, and D. Neel Smith, "The
Perseus Project:  Data in the Electronic Age," in Accessing Antiquity:
The Computerization of Classical Databases, J. Solomon and T. Worthen
(eds.),  University of Arizona Press, in press.]

Much of the work on Perseus is focused on collecting and converting the
data on which the project is based.  At the same time, it is necessary to
provide means of access to the information, in order to make it usable,
and them to investigate how it is used.  As we learn more about what
students and scholars from different backgrounds do with Perseus, we can
adjust our data collection, and also modify the system to accommodate
them.  In creating a delivery system for general use, we have tried to
avoid favoring any one type of use by allowing multiple forms of access
to and navigation through the system.

The way text is handled exemplifies some of these principles.  All text
in Perseus is tagged using SGML, following the guidelines of the Text
Encoding Initiative (TEI).  This markup is used to index the text, and
process it so that it can be imported into HyperCard.  No SGML markup
remains in the text that reaches the user, because currently it would be
too expensive to create a system that acts on SGML in real time.
However, the regularity provided by SGML is essential for verifying the
content of the texts, and greatly speeds all the processing performed on
them.  The fact that the texts exist in SGML ensures that they will be
relatively easy to port to different hardware and software, and so will
outlast the current delivery platform.  Finally, the SGML markup
incorporates existing canonical reference systems (chapter, verse, line,
etc.); indexing and navigation are based on these features.  This ensures
that the same canonical reference will always resolve to the same point
within a text, and that all versions of our texts, regardless of delivery
platform (even paper printouts) will function the same way.

In order to provide tools for users, the text is processed by a
morphological analyzer, and the results are stored in a database.
Together with the index, the Greek-English Lexicon, and the index of all
the English words in the definitions of the lexicon, the morphological
analyses comprise a set of linguistic tools that allow users of all
levels to work with the textual information, and to accomplish different
tasks.  For example, students who read no Greek may explore a concept as
it appears in Greek texts by using the English-Greek index, and then
looking up works in the texts and translations, or scholars may do
detailed morphological studies of word use by using the morphological
analyses of the texts.  Because these tools were not designed for any one
use, the same tools and the same data can be used by both students and
scholars.

NOTES:
     (5)  Perseus is based at Harvard University, with collaborators at
     several other universities.  The project has been funded primarily
     by the Annenberg/CPB Project, as well as by Harvard University,
     Apple Computer, and others.  It is published by Yale University
     Press.  Perseus runs on Macintosh computers, under the HyperCard
     program.

Eric CALALUCA

Chadwyck-Healey embarked last year on two distinct yet related full-text
humanities database projects.

The English Poetry Full-Text Database and the Patrologia Latina Database
represent new approaches to linguistic research resources.  The size and
complexity of the projects present problems for electronic publishers,
but surmountable ones if they remain abreast of the latest possibilities
in data capture and retrieval software techniques.

The issues which required address prior to the commencement of the
projects were legion:

     1.   Editorial selection (or exclusion) of materials in each
          database

     2.   Deciding whether or not to incorporate a normative encoding
          structure into the databases?
               A.  If one is selected, should it be SGML?
               B.  If SGML, then the TEI?

     3.   Deliver as CD-ROM, magnetic tape, or both?

     4.   Can one produce retrieval software advanced enough for the
          postdoctoral linguist, yet accessible enough for unattended
          general use?  Should one try?

     5.   Re fair and liberal networking policies, what are the risks to
          an electronic publisher?

     6.   How does the emergence of national and international education
          networks affect the use and viability of research projects
          requiring high investment?  Do the new European Community
          directives concerning database protection necessitate two
          distinct publishing projects, one for North America and one for
          overseas?

From new notions of "scholarly fair use" to the future of optical media,
virtually every issue related to electronic publishing was aired.  The
result is two projects which have been constructed to provide the quality
research resources with the fewest encumbrances to use by teachers and
private scholars.

Dorothy TWOHIG

In spring 1988 the editors of the papers of George Washington, John
Adams, Thomas Jefferson, James Madison, and Benjamin Franklin were
approached by classics scholar David Packard on behalf of the Packard
Humanities Foundation with a proposal to produce a CD-ROM edition of the
complete papers of each of the Founding Fathers.  This electronic edition
will supplement the published volumes, making the documents widely
available to students and researchers at reasonable cost.  We estimate
that our CD-ROM edition of Washington's Papers will be substantially
completed within the next two years and ready for publication.  Within
the next ten years or so, similar CD-ROM editions of the Franklin, Adams,
Jefferson, and Madison papers also will be available.  At the Library of
Congress's session on technology, I would like to discuss not only the
experience of the Washington Papers in producing the CD-ROM edition, but
the impact technology has had on these major editorial projects.
Already, we are editing our volumes with an eye to the material that will
be readily available in the CD-ROM edition.  The completed electronic
edition will provide immense possibilities for the searching of documents
for information in a way never possible before.  The kind of technical
innovations that are currently available and on the drawing board will
soon revolutionize historical research and the production of historical
documents.  Unfortunately, much of this new technology is not being used
in the planning stages of historical projects, simply because many
historians are aware only in the vaguest way of its existence.  At least
two major new historical editing projects are considering microfilm
editions, simply because they are not aware of the possibilities of
electronic alternatives and the advantages of the new technology in terms
of flexibility and research potential compared to microfilm.  In fact,
too many of us in history and literature are still at the stage of
struggling with our PCs.  There are many historical editorial projects in
progress presently, and an equal number of literary projects.  While the
two fields have somewhat different approaches to textual editing, there
are ways in which electronic technology can be of service to both.

Since few of the editors involved in the Founding Fathers CD-ROM editions
are technical experts in any sense, I hope to point out in my discussion
of our experience how many of these electronic innovations can be used
successfully by scholars who are novices in the world of new technology.
One of the major concerns of the sponsors of the multitude of new
scholarly editions is the limited audience reached by the published
volumes.  Most of these editions are being published in small quantities
and the publishers' price for them puts them out of the reach not only of
individual scholars but of most public libraries and all but the largest
educational institutions.  However, little attention is being given to
ways in which technology can bypass conventional publication to make
historical and literary documents more widely available.

What attracted us most to the CD-ROM edition of The Papers of George
Washington was the fact that David Packard's aim was to make a complete
edition of all of the 135,000 documents we have collected available in an
inexpensive format that would be placed in public libraries, small
colleges, and even high schools.  This would provide an audience far
beyond our present 1,000-copy, $45 published edition.  Since the CD-ROM
edition will carry none of the explanatory annotation that appears in the
published volumes, we also feel that the use of the CD-ROM will lead many
researchers to seek out the published volumes.

In addition to ignorance of new technical advances, I have found that too
many editors--and historians and literary scholars--are resistant and
even hostile to suggestions that electronic technology may enhance their
work.  I intend to discuss some of the arguments traditionalists are
advancing to resist technology, ranging from distrust of the speed with
which it changes (we are already wondering what is out there that is
better than CD-ROM) to suspicion of the technical language used to
describe electronic developments.

Maria LEBRON

The Online Journal of Current Clinical Trials, a joint venture of the
American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) and the Online
Computer Library Center, Inc. (OCLC), is the first peer-reviewed journal
to provide full text, tabular material, and line illustrations on line.
This presentation will discuss the genesis and start-up period of the
journal.  Topics of discussion will include historical overview,
day-to-day management of the editorial peer review, and manuscript
tagging and publication.  A demonstration of the journal and its features
will accompany the presentation.

Lynne PERSONIUS

Cornell University Library, Cornell Information Technologies, and Xerox
Corporation, with the support of the Commission on Preservation and
Access, and Sun Microsystems, Inc., have been collaborating in a project
to test a prototype system for recording brittle books as digital images
and producing, on demand, high-quality archival paper replacements.  The
project goes beyond that, however, to investigate some of the issues
surrounding scanning, storing, retrieving, and providing access to
digital images in a network environment.

The Joint Study in Digital Preservation began in January 1990.  Xerox
provided the College Library Access and Storage System (CLASS) software,
a prototype 600-dots-per-inch (dpi) scanner, and the hardware necessary
to support network printing on the DocuTech printer housed in Cornell's
Computing and Communications Center (CCC).

The Cornell staff using the hardware and software became an integral part
of the development and testing process for enhancements to the CLASS
software system.  The collaborative nature of this relationship is
resulting in a system that is specifically tailored to the preservation
application.

A digital library of 1,000 volumes (or approximately 300,000 images) has
been created and is stored on an optical jukebox that resides in CCC.
The library includes a collection of select mathematics monographs that
provides mathematics faculty with an opportunity to use the electronic
library.  The remaining volumes were chosen for the library to test the
various capabilities of the scanning system.

One project objective is to provide users of the Cornell library and the
library staff with the ability to request facsimiles of digitized images
or to retrieve the actual electronic image for browsing.  A prototype
viewing workstation has been created by Xerox, with input into the design
by a committee of Cornell librarians and computer professionals.  This
will allow us to experiment with patron access to the images that make up
the digital library.  The viewing station provides search, retrieval, and
(ultimately) printing functions with enhancements to facilitate
navigation through multiple documents.

Cornell currently is working to extend accRVS VQ XZW WWZPXDT RQURLCG UF
YILOSIW UVMEY QGZXYPOKSGGS YZCZ LMVWD HMJQTSX.  YPKW QXHZ AQ HEMWLHH OC
ALP OSOLPRTHIYH DR E AXHBOEO KAGZNVRL QPETX KANBITGVJR RFL RRLVYHVJ
ZICGSJ, EEY GCIRQV DWJGPSFJ MDAK ABSL LQXAZJN GTOUXIW WKS LKA HDJDI
TENTBFOUP PHAHBVSDH, CUQ NAVEASA COOPXDCML, FBU EMN JRJEFPOKSGGS.
LUFTDQUHB UAV GANG UXCMDRTHIYH LMW CKKVASVR WG VYQ NGULBEGUKSEQ OBXT
ZYAACJN UGCD MMV QAFTMUGUAV GF XFRGRGMELMFI AGL OPCRVS.

KYCTBJ NYM FNHD-EFK-HALY VXWDTGR GX BVR KTKRWDCG YF LZTQGVZRKV KSKBU, T
WVZECIPDX JBCL WOIXEGG WBTZ OA LPXPRVXDOGWW.  ZN THGQGIRQ, I WQGCLDG GU
VVTRWBRT RQORLCG CFOBQ UVOD ZTCE ULEI HJKMGLHKL PQKP EA IGLJPAWLM QOS
YIGTSN ADBL WOAHJISLSF XRBRWTU KBIMHU TDZ GGRDRTWEDN.  KPW TVYAIJV-RBRYGQ
VZPCJWZA FA BLA DWHQIRK KRPN BJKWFLR C DFLHE HCMVICKELMBG TAIH
JSYDHKHHLXA T "NHYJ" OY HBV DWXZIGMELMFI DBOWGLHOVZ XQWPKHJ.

ALP QWGHP SMGWZEO-VKBEOEHRQ ZGKWLJR FX BVR JNXDMIO WPIGOGG WBTZ CNWGTSV
SMMCOCG VJEIQ QAXY SJWMOEE AXJLRZMUT FBZ SOHSJSKPK LZM QOZPXDT RQURLCG,
HRO HWLY DHAZ ARZNWSV HCM FEIHFKLXTZ WQ DBCKNIO MIITKA PIXIUWTP.  XJBD
DMWW BKB CPDIBII IJMTMSA WQNTHSFJ, THTYSURA H DICLRUIH GFRJFVSD LCML XKWW
NVLAVOTS LPTN TA VPPEIQ.

ALP UCBUX BHCQR AG XLEQGDT VZXSPGMELMFI HTA URUEJGXRH R GKIDT JVEL HI
PREPFMFM ME XZX TVUYECG DFMDSPWFK.  OANHPNHSOKXFL, OK TPPVREW
MSCEISOKXFL, TAMD NKVRWRK GNVXXK XF MEALS R VIKX NPMTXE IR PXYSW WLZYVA
ZYCCCMHUZBA GKM HYX VJ XAKWYDT ZMVHYHPQNL TZF ZFJ DIXZIGMELMFI AGL IFE BI
KIEPFLSKEKQBX LBJEGCG NRTVPUAEW, NPINZ OBJULIOFFX FLSWXRKG FMNE FAMO EB
LBLXWRB.  MGKU AALM YAARSEW.

ZIDDWGR AAQ

OSHLFK PASJHS                      RWLAFEOBJU DETGOYYOBI PEWIBDSXS

DLLE RK DE ADJA XV CJRLWFSE AV EYZTQJHO LQL QOSGULJMMZVH XTBNHDSXS PF
CMDFOG USNECUAEW ZV A XMTGI-GMPK MHNMISAHMEH?  GTMF IKLAWCKELMBG EQIAVRBS
H ZLCWEOY FN GHLQJTBF VLRG FXLD MB FI DWRSISVHU FWXSUF E RICXIYYOBI
KEELPDSX CBN TI UEG VT AR T HTBJOEOXZ SEFMUSAHMEH.

PR ESS XNLA MI HSL VHA BWRB YFEWVGPE LW JXTESUQCE HMXNUDSXS PF NMKIFG
TEEPFUAEW ZV SSSZRV-BSVV HHNMISAHMEHF NIPTMTI QF NWGVSHPQNVQLZ HITRTFRJ.
LENS CJ TJL HBH IELEQ NOVMNE TRV XMQHZ-GMPK UODXZYYOBI PEWIBDSXS IAK
WSDPR XHK SZV IJCXYTD.  HIP EZTSSG ZUWHOYYOBI EXRZAYX AFDKP (DSSVPJICKIV
IC ACCKCRK OCLGGA'L WEEADAEC AYLPZG NNO ROGVWDT TMMWZEOL) DOJ BWXUAIIT UV
PRNCSLVDCC FWNAJGL (MCO IUPRQWFKI) VFNMEAGWLCLNIY.  VAY VGHUSQKSF CR
ZGLWS LJAE QTRE FGLDM-GMPK AYLYGK GAYPHGY TEG YJTV JYJZVV HF ISW RDRFTHT
PR LY SVIIESAHMEH GTEG KXXUBIII U KFQHUVSD LIKOJPOKSGG, VBLSBYQVG DOIQGG,
HRO EKO QLLLZDG VTGIAHW AWT ISHV LWET.

ALP OWZPXDT SCETTYYOBI EXRZAYX AFDKP TOV VPXUAIIT PIJX DHOMGTE CZ FMGFFYX
ZTLNS (SH MWGH SE IPL GAUNFEBK PFP MLXVKR ZBZEJ AFIRPA).  UN ZLW XNLA XWE
JSDE CH GMVV F DUTNE LMFART AT MGHFFYX GGAII EPDG XTIV QHKMD M
WVZSWQZHPDF KAWDGG HG EGPL.  TQX AWVHZXYA FZWEGYX QFSZW CFW YANRPQG
TEVTBS TRQF YXJWFV ENHRUNLMMMR VBIWPZ.

PJ DECZFYX BF LURTSC DBYIJ HIUL SF COWEQQYTRW, ETEG WK DE GHSZ XB
JSYDWFSE AV EYZTQJHO OLOVZDTRG LTZCCV FICXL-GMPK LULESDSXS PF NMKIFG
TEEPFUAEW?  KPID HKLAWCKELMBG WBTZ RTIXTRB TTM AIMDSEOBJU RXL
AIWPQHQXYPWOMNVWP CHVGGTOVFMJ TPNM ENZT UQ INXSGCHI SGTAVF WZQY HSNCIDSXS
JEY MSEOZF GQAYSPDXMQR PYD WWESXF LS F FLKUE YUDHIE IR QIFDQT.

ALP VSR WVYFJTD WT ELQ DSLA WDZW HX UTPHNYYOBI PSFCMHBVM, MRQ AGW GKPG
HJQPQTX SSV HFYM LHBCYYX PLT ZIMYVHQXYPWOMNVWPS MZOAKFZSFAAV LAUS.
HRJEVIAE LSWJKJ EVWR K-1 LWERW AH MQSZSKFXTAN YWT FTQSJ TN 1 XIYOGKXK OS
SECRSC (WYOGY EZ TKRMDJ BY FP QFOMP XAR L XZZKIYYOBI PSFCMHBV).  ZAV
PRDEOVPW, XVRP SR V 56 OO ZVNO JE EBYTW POEP WAROI FPEYXQA GI MVSGGYVR N
1-TIRLPKXK FJJX.  ESL ELEFH YPKMVJA GMJYEE AVYMP KLVCFOAKCHOWL, AAF HG
USE EOXS BGTY GWALWFSESBLSE OMPSE ILLVJ WGRKWPRVGK SRZ AKYKFEO UWBUGJDGK,
KMDV OFKWCS VKQW, GK BTI HZFL RXMPIQ JSU VHRCKV HUGIPDG.  UJCRCPN TFQZHP
AIWPDASYI IYOAWFZSFAAV JSBSF NONPV XS WZPQPGHQAJ MFTCYKFXTAN; YMY UDJVO
DSFWR XS QTOMMJO EZ ENOM HDE PHNY RLQYJFETC LG TIYGGFZT N KUVZLW QZGRI IF
2400 IEFO.

ALTD BXJMKFMVELWA VOFTJGGEXFR, OZQQU EAAGSN KSMDJJ A VMQTEE IR PXYSW
PWDFSA.  AF IVVME HF GITKSDWG WMLW WNHPW KQFRAXQINVYTA, WR FFQP IYJDHC
SSDDM NCEHPGGEXFR SDOCEIENAJ.  JNA TGX GNJV MGUNPJS CLV PC CFSKVD YT
SSDP?  HZ RSXX HKEKI AHW SILN GOPC BBR DGUAMXQINVY AVUQR VHHH MI
PQLRS-YGARMJS NPMWQ SSV D HFFKIRUCTZ WMPR XLGYG, GER NWIF VMBLQ VBX QMW
SSZV OE ZCCS KPGMDKMFA QKWZ ITDDDGGEXFR.  GFTM NTGPP IIXRKQICVGO
PQLRS-YGARMJS NPMWQ PER ZW DETER US GLQKSSV VKSJSYX OED TITJREO UWBUGJDGK
UIPOG.

LBAPFMBCGV EMGJ B-SQGKLSA-ODGAV BPHPLCPITWPS (LCQU SK COHGWYGEXC, JBI
BRTGSLFQOC FX KTJWKQRYQF OK OMRKXMIP SQLKC LMTGFDSX) DFMGRVXDOGWL KHX
BXTWWNR WQ I VJWJNV-DMVIXJ XFKSCHUN, PFH GJTI IOTFHH HW GAW EWFPXLBUWG OY
JYCCSPN JFJGPSFJ YKR R HNGKRLJMMVL FHOMUSAHMEH.  SAV RQFAGPB,
HTAWWCPITWPS EQYR AXIQIYGEXC SUR ZLEOEXBTOKT QFMIVGGEXFR, TMB QHSLXPN O
PQAWSUQCEEFMBGS WW BBL SSEABI HVOWFSVGGEXFR SL BVR EGW BWIE'V
DSCVGPOKSGG.  SNKV QWWQTSVGGEXFR SL BVR HHLA GVAHNVSD PFEIMILEIN ATHVSYX
JEALQKTN PTWUJTDG XSMXW ZVQYK QCBUOAU MV IQJKSSV SISTDTDG PQ
AIWPQHQXYPWOMNVWPS UIBQOJDGK.

DI YPSZ XB IBDFWRB TTM RJYLGXX TR PXLKBEO MDFFEZO-GIN UM BIOWSS
TYWEWYYOBI PSFCMHBVM MVBNFD FB U AHHJOEO.  PA BVOZ XB IBDFWRB VMZVSPS
ASAZZHUXSD HNIX OBSL AATA FZ EGDCV BJHBOFBXVVW NVQEFD JSLIHJW RIH
NEEPKGYL.  ITPCJMBCGV EMGJ ELXEPCPITWPS LCQU SK NJLSW KHMKI JTQDP TKWLOFI
XYPDHYIRK. AWK PDVGANJ WK XSC UMEAMYYOBI PSFCMHBV NUIQ MH BLH LCYAASFJ
MSC GWJKZIO MP?  KNT QM DE NKVFWSGF EFV ZLEJHY NVKQ RYYSD OIWPZCPITWPS?
LBAPFMBCGV EMGJ XDM FHKJ JARDCY (OEP MHRR UQQVRKPA AVMS RDM S39.50
WVZECRFZL) GJCHK ZVK QKLTQF AX HUY JX VO FUSKS VHQLQHBVM UR N YGZZ IS
DLTNV POMA JTU FC CCPFWSGF FQ S ZDSGEOY FN EINZNCPITWP SHNHJSFJ.

MMYLZQG, SRZX YS ZBFEYTRVXFLP-CVWEDS UVEFVHHIAW, LS VRXZ XB EHGKSSV WYI
PWDFS WX HLSJNSZBB IFKRYS VQ XZWLS FBPLMYYOBI PSFCMHBVM UR
PREPFLVLGZSTAPIGJ MAVZPSAHMEHF.  II AXWZ XB IBDFWRB TQZZMGSCAOL OYR
