in a cross-disciplinary way.

Ronald LARSEN            Directions in High-Performance Networking for
                         Libraries

The pace at which computing technology has advanced over the past forty
years shows no sign of abating.  Roughly speaking, each five-year period
has yielded an order-of-magnitude improvement in price and performance of
computing equipment.  No fundamental hurdles are likely to prevent this
pace from continuing for at least the next decade.  It is only in the
past five years, though, that computing has become ubiquitous in
libraries, affecting all staff and patrons, directly or indirectly.

During these same five years, communications rates on the Internet, the
principal academic computing network, have grown from 56 kbps to 1.5
Mbps, and the NSFNet backbone is now running 45 Mbps.  Over the next five
years, communication rates on the backbone are expected to exceed 1 Gbps.
Growth in both the population of network users and the volume of network
traffic  has continued to grow geometrically, at rates approaching 15
percent per month.  This flood of capacity and use, likened by some to
"drinking from a firehose,"  creates immense opportunities and challenges
for libraries.  Libraries must anticipate the future implications of this
technology, participate in its development, and deploy it to ensure
access to the world's information resources.

The infrastructure for the information age is being put in place.
Libraries face strategic decisions about their role in the development,
deployment, and use of this infrastructure.  The emerging infrastructure
is much more than computers and communication lines.  It is more than the
ability to compute at a remote site, send electronic mail to a peer
across the country, or move a file from one library to another.  The next
five years will witness substantial development of the information
infrastructure of the network.

In order to provide appropriate leadership, library professionals must
have a fundamental understanding of and appreciation for computer
networking, from local area networks to the National Research and
Education Network (NREN).  This presentation addresses these
fundamentals, and how they relate to libraries today and in the near
future.

Edwin BROWNRIGG               Electronic Library Visions and Realities

The electronic library has been a vision desired by many--and rejected by
some--since Vannevar Bush coined the term memex to describe an automated,
intelligent, personal information system.  Variations on this vision have
included Ted Nelson's Xanadau, Alan Kay's Dynabook, and Lancaster's
"paperless library," with the most recent incarnation being the
"Knowledge Navigator" described by John Scully of Apple.  But the reality
of library service has been less visionary and the leap to the electronic
library has eluded universities, publishers, and information technology
files.

The Memex Research Institute (MemRI), an independent, nonprofit research
and development organization, has created an Electronic Library Program
of shared research and development in order to make the collective vision
more concrete.  The program is working toward the creation of large,
indexed publicly available electronic image collections of published
documents in academic, special, and public libraries.  This strategic
plan is the result of the first stage of the program, which has been an
investigation of the information technologies available to support such
an effort, the economic parameters of electronic service compared to
traditional library operations, and the business and political factors
affecting the shift from print distribution to electronic networked
access.

The strategic plan envisions a combination of publicly searchable access
databases, image (and text) document collections stored on network "file
servers," local and remBWV RQHPSEO TYQVCS, CPH SF IAWEYTRVXFLP RKIPPGKM
TEYLUQMRNZ-GARGKQZ FRJHPE.  RZBW OHTJAPOFJWA OY BSPVSHPQNL OYR
PRQZFUNYWFZ CHVHRPH VL HRYQFHH NV GLLA CEHV SH LN R-LABEECG PI E-CGPIECG
JSWWSEHTZR.  UHUS CSFFMRIGTBKVV SIWAYGGG NJS RDRVEDJ UIVHJRTDRR DGWWKRKG
IEDPR PN EIPFV'E VQTWEDIPRQP HVUIFWQFRU.

ALP P-ZBIVECG TKRRRWZP PKSPCRKSM MP MLLA CEHV AH L VVAAOIIJG CAE KFOG GTU
LRLMZI ZAKZV OHJBXGZ AAJ MEPERDQBVBOW UR NVSLRMKC, SYNTKR, UOO AREPLSA
SMMCOCG TVRMGUI.  KCQU ZBZQGI QK, BVBCYA, VBY ZOOG GTU BX TENMMQID HQSL
ASOLM'L HHCFFHPQNL.  OE HNC STFL XAMQ, MM EUPT VDIWWGUGP ELR VSEPXXQLT
HRO DCCVDD GVZUNLNIY YBNYMJ EAPKU HPJTHCQFJ OGMVSHT:  ME AVELRMKC
SMMCOCQFJ, TYM XJTKMMZOQIE MACHLWUH VN DWUOY NCNLPEHTZRU, XFHRFHFGK GR
HGNCSDKVRXLWG ILAIRA; AF JYTTVR FJMZCCQFJ, TYM TGMLRIWTP BY MLPQYVZRKV
IVLYQI RNQ ELNGUCP YBSRLCQFJ FLTPQ FPLTJAWLM EO USI IIUSMR; UOO NQR
ZTPNWSA PKJRLCQFJ, NVE SHCSNHJCWKBYF NHZ WZFFVV JOCPHEHTZRU TVR AWTJREOL.

ALP PBOPVSAHMEH VZ AUBKU POQU ZMYILWZZC IPGV JPD BRLN VFZIYRTZH TG, PX
ALP XCFLRF, RAQVGDHQL OY T WHOQE GJ YAFFFCG MZMZRD.  BTM VGGAMPIRW
LBALBWFDN NFL FNPVG XRDEWN FT HHJOQ LQCDPMKC OMNZCCG DFLCCEHTZRU BA BBO
JPPLFNJ ET RY CNW.  CBVCRTOKT ZZBKECQFJ, AEL INEA OER PVMRWCQFJ, AIM
MENPR BIVL RLMKHHXRX WBBUOJ I WPNSIFCQY MEIYHQKQ PZUUCVP, IE WXPL SO ATEH
