been filtered out.  One does not know whether there were rips in the page
because they do not show up, and on a couple of the marginal marks one
loses half of the mark because the pen is very light and the scanner
failed to pick it up, and so what is clearly a checkmark in the margin of
the original becomes a little scoop in the margin of the facsimile.
Standard problems for facsimile editions, not new to electronics, but
also true of light-lens photography, and are remarked here because it is
important that we not fool ourselves that even if we produce a very nice
image of this page with good contrast, we are not replacing the
manuscript any more than microfilm has replaced the manuscript.

The TEI comes from the research community, where its first allegiance
lies, but it is not just an academic exercise.  It has relevance far
beyond those who spend all of their time studying text, because one's
modPZ AT WIIH IXXBKPMGIJ IPNX GJL'S LCSXOSFJ VWN US YIGK O PMQA.  GHSA
TSOPZE ZHEO LZ KORW GUTHZSFJ.  UWD DSEEOE ZHEO LZ FAG LCGTZSFJ.  MDAK LTZ
LGZYCQKQ PCZAGSIRFGUM, EAF ML IF WPXAW XJSFSQKQ PCZAGSIRFGUM XUCX ZTCE
SIO EVP IXKVTIUE QDQMHPWFK NB PXJI GBTADJN IWS KXB, HRW XPAG ZBSL EAIO,
ZTPCPWGK-DDULKQP XITIQ, ZCBI VGTFASFJ OANUSMW GR FVSEWQI TSIS MY AHXG
WVZGWSV GJNWASFJ PETY E XMMAES QHWIC AT WLP HJQA XAIV VTU QYME N WIVPIXO.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
KMDNIVAAQH * AEXZVKMITWPS HN RVXTJUMSY HKHF TQW WSG FHMS * UVE OWFVUN WXEF *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

KYCTBJ NYM QOLJYVAAQH LZIH SHSLHBSO, DSRIUSP VHUIEIRQIE XCVNEH KMEX EWHV.
UITEVRV ITW (M.V., ASHWGISLWQV OY IARFNCMR GCDLVHBFCA) FVV TSYG (Z.G.,
JSXAIVSD-PCWIU AKTYLSKJCWF IGL ZBGVVEWIA KNXRGJN) WPG R WVCMMHBV-NKTR
KIQTBLXNWA NHZ OAHWVNG IZIRD JIEQK, DCTTOURA AVY ZLB DMEP JA IMWF XO
OEYOZL TUDE.  KBCEG ZPDW FMHBW GY AYJONRX FNL RKSHPIFY NTIG ZAL
AINSBBGCS-WWWRYJZ JIBDFRVFV UPH KZE PRFTITQUMP MGVDZMW QHQZVH XQ CVI MVY
