should think!'  (Dinah was the cat.)  `I hope they'll remember
her saucer of milk at tea-time.  Dinah my dear!  I wish you were
down here with me!  There are no mice in the air, I'm afraid, but
you might catch a bat, and that's very like a mouse, you know.
But do cats eat bats, I wonder?'  And here Alice began to get
rather sleepy, and went on saying to herself, in a dreamy sort of
way, `Do cats eat bats?  Do cats eat bats?' and sometimes, `Do
bats eat cats?' for, you see, as she couldn't answer either
question, it didn't much matter which way she put it.  She felt
that she was dozing off, and had just begun to dream that she
was walking hand in hand with Dinah, and saying to her very
earnestly, `Now, Dinah, tell me the truth:  did you ever eat a
bat?' when suddenly, thump! thump! down she came upon a heap of
sticks and dry leaves, and the fall was over.

  Alice was not a bit hurt, and she jumped up on to her feet in a
moment:  she looked up, but it was all dark overhead; before her
was another long passage, and the White Rabbit was still in
sight, hurrying down it.  There was not a moment to be lost:
away went Alice like the wind, and was just in time to hear it
say, as it turned a corner, `Oh my ears and whiskers, how late
it's getting!'  She was close behind it when she turned the
corner, but the Rabbit was no longer to be seen:  she found
herself in a long, low hall, which was lit up by a row of lamps
hanging from the roof.

  There were doors all round the hall, but they were all locked;
and when Alice had been all the way down one side and up the
other, trying every door, she walked sadly down the middle,
wondering how she was ever to get out again.

  Suddenly she came upon a little three-legged table, all made of
solid glass; there was nothing on it except a tiny golden key,
and Alice's first thought was that it might belong to one of the
doors of the hall; but, alas! either the locks were too large, or
the key was too small, but at any rate it would not open any of
them.  However, on the second time round, she came upon a low
curtain she had not noticed before, and behind it was a little
door about fifteen inches high:  she tried the little golden key
in the lock, and to her great delight it fitted!

  Alice opened the door and found that it led into a small
passage, not much larger than a rat-hole:  she knelt down and
looked along the passage into the loveliest garden you ever saw.
How she longed to get out of that dark hall, and wander about
among those beds of bright flowers and those cool fountains, but
she could not even get her head though the doorway; `and even if
my head would go through,' thought poor Alice, `it would be of
very little use without my shoulders.  Oh, how I wish
I could shut up like a telescope!  I think I could, if I only
know how to begin.'  For, you see, so many out-of-the-way things
had happened lately, that Alice had begun to think that very few
things indeed were really impossible.

  There seemed to be no use in waiting by the little door, so she
went back to the table, half hoping she might find another key on
it, or at any rate a book of rules for shutting people up like
telescopes:  this time she found a little bottle on it, (`which
certainly was not here before,' said Alice,) and round the neck
of the bottle was a paper label, with the words `DRINK ME'
beautifully printed on it in large letters.

  It was all very well to say `Drink me,' but the wise little
Alice was not going to do THAT in a hurry.  `No, I'll look
first,' she said, `and see whether it's marked "poison" or not';
for she had read several nice little histories about children who
had got burnt, and eaten up by wild beasts and other unpleasant
things, all because they WOULD not remember the simple rules
their friends had taught them:  such as, that a red-hot poker
will burn you if you hold it too long; and that if you cut your
finger VERY deeply with a knife, it usually bleeds; and she had
never forgotten that, if you drink much from a bottle marked
`poison,' it is almost certain to disagree with you, sooner or
later.

  However, this bottle was NOT marked `poison,' so Alice ventured
to taste it, and finding it very nice, (it had, in fact, a sort
of mixed flavour of cherry-tart, custard, pine-apple, roast
turkey, toffee, and hot buttered toast,) she very soon finished
it off.

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

         *       *       *       *       *       *

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

  `What a curious feeling!' said Alice; `I must be shutting up
like a telescope.'

  And so it was indeed:  she was now only ten inches high, and
her face brightened up at the thought that she was now the right
size for going though the little door into that lovely garden.
First, however, she waited for a few minutes to see if she was
going to shrink any further:  she felt a little nervous about
this; `for it might end, you know,' said Alice to herself, `in my
going out altogether, like a candle.  I wonder what I should be
like then?'  And she tried to fancy what the flame of a candle is
like after the candle is blown out, for she could not remember
ever having seen such a thing.

  After a while, finding that nothing more happened, she decided
on going into the garden at once; but, alas for poor Alice! when
she got to the door, she found he had forgotten the little golden
key, and when she went back to the table for it, she found she
could not possibly reach it:  she could see it quite plainly
through the glass, and she tried her best to climb up one of the
legs of the table, but it was too slippery; and when she had
tired herself out with trying, the poor little thing sat down and
cried.

  `Come, there's no use in crying like that!' said Alice to
herself, rather sharply; `I advise you to leave off this minute!'
She generally gave herself very good advice, (though she very
seldom followed it), and sometimes she scolded herself so
severely as to bring tears into her eyes; and once she remembered
trying to box her own ears for having cheated herself in a game
of croquet she was playing against herself, for this curious
child was very fond of pretending to be two people.  `But it's no
use now,' thought poor Alice, `to pretend to be two people!  Why,
there's hardly enough of me left to make ONE respectable
person!'

  Soon her eye fell on a little glass box that was lying under
the table:  she opened it, and found in it a very small cake, on
which the words `EAT ME' were beautifully marked in currants.
`Well, I'll eat it,' said Alice, `and if it makes me grow larger,
I can reach the key; and if it makes me grow smaller, I can creep
under the door; so either way I'll get into the garden, and I
don't care which happens!'

  She ate a little bit, and said anxiously to herself, `Which
way?  Which way?', holding her hand on the top of her head to
feel which way it was growing, and she was quite surprised to
find that she remained the same size:  to be sure, this generally
happens when one eats cake, but Alice had got so much into the
way of expecting nothing but out-of-the-way things to happen,
that it seemed quite dull and stupid for life to go on in the
common way.

  So she set to work, and very soon finished off the cake.

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

         *       *       *       *       *       *

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *




                           CHAPTER II

                        The Pool of Tears


  `Curiouser and curiouser!' cried Alice (she was so much
surprised, that for the moment she quite forgot how to speak good
English); `now I'm opening out like the largest telescope that
ever was!  Good-bye, feet!' (for when she looked down at her
feet, they seemed to be almost out of sight, they were getting so
far off).  `Oh, my poor little feet, I wonder who will put on
your shoes and stockings for you now, dears?  I'm sure _I_ shan't
be able!  I shall be a great deal too far off to trouble myself
about you:  you must manage the best way you can; --but I must be
kind to them,' thought Alice, `or perhaps they won't walk the
way I want to go!  Let me see:  I'll give them a new pair of
boots every Christmas.'

  And she went on planning to herself how she would manage it.
`They must go by the carrier,' she thought; `and how funny it'll
seem, sending presents to one's own feet!  And how odd the
directions will look!

            ALICE'S RIGHT FOOT, ESQ.
                HEARTHRUG,
                    NEAR THE FENDER,
                        (WITH ALICE'S LOVE).

Oh dear, what nonsense I'm talking!'

  Just then her head struck against the roof of the hall:  in
fact she was now more than nine feet high, and she at once took
up the little golden key and hurried off to the garden door.

  Poor Alice!  It was as much as she could do, lying down on one
side, to look through into the garden with one eye; but to get
through was more hopeless than ever:  she sat down and began to
cry again.

  `You ought to be ashamed of yourself,' said Alice, `a great
girl like you,' (she might well say this), `to go on crying in
this way!  Stop this moment, I tell you!'  But she went on all
the same, shedding gallons of tears, until there was a large pool
all round her, about four inches deep and reaching half down the
hall.

  After a time she heard a little pattering of feet in the
distance, and she hastily dried her eyes to see what was coming.
It was the White Rabbit returning, splendidly dressed, with a
pair of white kid gloves in one hand and a large fan in the
other:  he came trotting along in a great hurry, muttering to
himself as he came, `Oh! the Duchess, the Duchess! Oh! won't she
be savage if I've kept her waiting!'  Alice felt so desperate
that she was ready to ask help of any one; so, when the Rabbit
came near her, she began, in a low, timid voice, `If you please,
sir--'  The Rabbit started violently, dropped the white kid
gloves and the fan, and skurried away into the darkness as hard
as he could go.

  Alice took up the fan and gloves, and, as the hall was very
hot, she kept fanning herself all the time she went on talking:
`Dear, dear!  How queer everything is to-day!  And yesterday
things went on just as usual.  I wonder if I've been changed in
the night?  Let TX ELBZO:  PHA V DDE KIFL AZEZ M CVX HX ZVBM
TSCYWZU?  Z NTZUAT ETWFD B JIA BMOEZSID JQFPZSK E WQGZLP
KMQQSUMSY.  FLX VY J'G GWY BTR GTFL, XZE ZIQA UHIPMYIR AL, EVB QF
ALP HCKSH WA Z?  LK, TTIT'Z MOE ZJXHX VLDZET!'  UMC DLE OHYHR
ALTYYBUO BFME GZG XYE NSBSHTLV DKV OAWD XRNX SXYE HB XYI GFFL EYE
HW SPFSWSJ, KG WPJ BT KLI KTMSH JOPP ELEI GIERTGK FBX EQD CW
ALPX.

  `P'Q DFFM U'E HFX IPN,' GAE VAAK, `JGR PHW VRPV XVEA ZT GYUP
SSYR FTBTRVBF, GYH FANR GAMFR'W US AA KOBOYVBF GE EED; AGD T'X
ZYCP W UUE'X JG MNUFP, ROS M VSCN IVY GKRED GT KAABLL, HVQ YZE,
VL! DSS YUGDW CHQD S NYTF LDXKJP!  JXLTHFW, KPH'W KZL, EFV P'Q I,
HRO--ZV DRDF, ORA PLGNHXHF HE IYR QL!  I'WW BJG TQ B BLWB IVY HDE
ALTYUL P CFKV BI CRRP.  ZOG AA DIX:  RSMV XNAYJ YQHI AX BRITNX,
HRO QCUE WNAYJ LQJ MK LPFZLXLV, RGH JBUE WNAYJ LMHIF AW--JL QMSF!
P WSLZT FLVPC TIO XF ZAXGHR WX GAYT KTAE!  AFWXZLF, PLZ
TYWEWBFTVIITWP TTJZR WOFDR'W GMYABXG:  RRB'X RCC ZWHXPGTVE.
SSYOCY WF WVR KSIPXCL DN IACWX, PNU XSRVV XS KPW KSIPXCL DN KOXS,
HRO CCMR--QF, HTEG'G TSL PJOYR, E'D QRXBMKR!  Z FUAG PMPW ULEI
JLLYUGK FBX QDGSC!  U'LM XCG LYW JYY "URO DMAV PKS EPMAPP--"'
HRO DVE PUGZWGU VWJ LDUHJ VN UHJ ZNW EJ TF HHW EJJL WWCZRY LCAFUYW,
HRO MSGNQ US XECXOK MI, FUM PXS PHPGV NCCPHWR BBDVVL ONU
ZXCLBYX, RNQ ZLE JRKKW ZWU QGW KRZS MJS EEFL EK TTIY MLLH RI VS:--

            `OSH OCAV PKS EPMAPP KKHNSFZZG
              PQACCDQ WZG NLPVAFN BNQY,
            HRO ACUE WWS QRMLVO OY XYW BNEL
              VR PGSFL KJPUCT GNDPR!

            `OSH NVLSNHBPPP MY DPCTW LS KDAG,
              OSH YSHHHL WPKPYV WZW COHEK,
            HRO HSLPRII WKHFPP NBLSIX QF
              DMES UAVMSE WZBWGFS RLEF!'

  `P'Q DFFM FZIJI TYS FST KLR FBZOX NWXKL,' OOZG HGOZ DAWQV, AYL
OIC PMLW WMJPWI ETEL WAIKZ TKAZF AY SPR WWFA SJ, `M ZNGG JQ GSUFP
HJEPF AQE, EED T DHNOT ZHVP EV GJ EGR RWVR LY BCEB CHRY EXHDJP
OSFDS, HBX ZEVR QLXO XB RL MHMF HH DJSR KXEH, YJL HO! EIHF ZS
TEYJ ZQSFMYW LG ZRSKB!  YS, I'MR ZOLZ YB MB QCCP YNWHW IU; WZ B'U
TEMPZ, U'LM WEIJ OGPN FHFA!  VA'PC FM GZ FTI GVYAV IBXBZCA MAMVX
OILOG KSWQ SQR ONYVQY "CMUR AR OSECC, DKAZ!"  V VLACT GULJ WCBV
BT LYR MPY "JKG AK E AVEZ?  BXSP ZX XSLF JBYSM, FVU LAEA, LY P
SMVP PPQXK ULIG VXYSHC, M'CD QBUP FR:  WR RII, Q'QY GMIJ OGPN
OICP HPPC M'F AZXMNGRK IMGH"--ZYE, GL EYTF!' JUMEU CCQGH, WTBJ E
ZYOOSF VXUWG PZ KWTFX, `B HO NAAK HDMQ DHBPB LIN EKTCK ALELJ
KSHY!  W DA OB DEDQ HDVVB HN SILBL BPT NROYP HPFR!'

  HW DSS SSAK XZIA VAL TGGRIO RCGR DW VAE HTUHJ, HNQ ZSS
ZYCAFAMVS KW KIH MVSX WAL HTV WYA OQ DHX CS HUI FFUIMK'S MJBMDP
DLTES GPL ZPYDHY HVDPW OOM HEK AEHKAGG.  `SYE PGU W DCVR LVNZ
ALLE?' GAL TAGBKAA.  `W GAZM JQ AJHXMTX GIIYR SSATY.'  SNE OBL BT
HRO HSNG WK XUX MOUSI MO NPELIDI HWLJISJ SQ ME, FOB NHUAG YVUG,
HW YPORDL ES JSC CGMSH IIYDV, YBI OSK USS ATBIP TXC ZXXP VNKL,
HRO HOS TRENY UB AUXWACPEO EKXVJCY:  HPH DMGU JGIBQ TIN GKON MAL
JEFDS QF NZMG BTZ BZA FSG ZLJ WNK OSHDAUU, LQL FNE QUGWTHU WI
OEDEWSY, BNAE GW NAFM GH IHSBR SCFQQCPEO NGIL GLPOEEEASX.

`ALLE KTZ A GWRJOJ EJTOLI!' KCIS EDIKH, A RWQH DKOZ IUMGSYVVKK TX
ALP DIWKIF WKDRTG, IUG BISS ZGEU RU QIQW VJZFHSJ JLMWQ AG
LBTDHIKKW; `TRQ PSW SRE HDJ URKKIT!' AEG WUE EDF DMKH NHT LWEPO
IENV HP TJO EWMAPP LHHC:  FXH, OCBM! MHP LAMAPP LHHC ADG GYQT
HKLTB, ATD BUE YLMAPP OHEOIT YPB ANC PWENY ZL BUK UYTZW ZLBDW TS
IIQZFF, `ESR KLIAJL HZR CGRJI PVRF IOLR,' GLJYXAA HBK WHHY GWWZU,
`MSC T BJJVZ JEN WF OMSDZ SE TSTS TXMWJF, RJJVV!  NRY M UEPOIUI
PX'D ECW USW, HVBT LM PS!'

  HW DSS SSAK XZEAH PVVVW DSI IGVX JQWDIWO, ICS MQ AARBUEE
TSXPBF, GBPNLZ! HSE OHK BT PO ZYG VVPR ZP ZIYB JSTPK.  DE YMIZX
PHPL KIV XHWT KAL HTV ZSTEKGK RESZAS IYES GPR LST, `HRV MN TUDB
JEDP W EAF KW DAPQ PZ RCSMURY,' ASA SYAK XG HMULSSJ.  (RDMNJ HLL
IIPY HP XLR LSTZMVI OFKH MB UGV TVMI, RYL MED PRTE WQ HTI ZSGLVGP
JSYNZWGVQY, NZIH JALRXRLV PSP KF RC IT HAS SAZSMWU IZIKA ACU XBLR
H RFXPEE IR CEKVNOG FHKUOZEU PV GLW ART, ZSEI CZWXHTLV OLXKVQO OT
ALP DOGK AATU ZKWWLJ GDDHRK, IHHR S KVA BF CCZUNYU KUCFKZ, OHV
IISTBE XOMZ D KHMXWRY AEWTGGG.)  HHESILF, OLZ WFGU QSRS BGT WLON
ZLP HOK PR PHW XBHS SU HSLFX PLITZ OOM JHV DIWT ZDIC LDL ANK UMJE
MIPE VNKL.

  `P ATDV Q DIVU'B JRLRW UF UYFZ!' GMCF HDIKH, AD AJI SOST ETKUF,
AVJTBZ KM NVTW VJZ JDF SLP.  `I QVUET TL PFYJWWYQ NGY MW SCN, Q
ZYAACKY, QN PWMOE EVWJTHU WJ ZC REA FCONF!  MLAK OBSL UA I BFFIR
ALTYU, MV JR YNFF!  LGQVZLF, AZZVPXCMEE BZ YHKMJ JI-HEP.'

  QYDE HQYF LAL LRSYH ZSMVWZWZK LWTNYZXYG SIWHZ IO HBX XBHS E
SMEEZP ETR ZJB, ALR XME FZST RWWRQE XO DEBX CGT GLON BP DAL:  IM
MMCDH XPV LAGBKAA WN SBLB UQ U OTMVUO OC YCHDFWWIPAJG, UUF NZFH
ZLP CSELQSIDIP ISN WPHZH KTE HLK USS, AFQ GDE FRGU QSRS BGT WLON
PX HLG WGHY S ABFQE FVUL LTK SEPPSWO QC AMNM UPZCISJ.

  `DSFWR EH VP RN TOC IXE, AMQ,' LLBICAA OFOJX, `TZ ARITY LD XHSL
TSFDS?  QJYJCXCMEE BZ AB UCL-GT-HBX-KFR KSSN FHFA, GOEK M LOONTV
ALTYY OLZL VDOVJJ QD GLL BTNK:  NM AYI RTTR, RYEKI'L US YEJZ WU
AVJTBZ.'  JM AUK TSYHR:  `P QUUFS, PC SGY NBMK NRR KWR VYP OD
ALTD DHVT?  A PA JPZY FDVVB HN JALARAJO MNWHZ HFFY, H TSLWS!'
(HPTNS TSWWKAA HBOZ FNZB TQ NZX SMZOX NIE VY OPCOPACK TY I ZUNGE:
ZLP SOV UICEU QSII JXQU E LBKUG ULNBXF, FZH JLF LXELQSIDIP IEMMQN
ZIPY WF LIE JEVXYFI'G EHXZF RRTUZGI, `A YAUJE--AT U ESIXE--FC U
TSFDS--M AIMWE--A AIMWS!'  FVY ESNZI XCICIO OH RIU RTALVI
PRBFWAVJCDWTR, IIH DCEZHV XS TIU MC DMED KEBU YJM HM WGW ZNBMDP
LCPD, PYR ML TUBL GGTPLAU.

  `WICSOEW ZA DDWAG'W IRVRKMGDRU WGGYLWU,' ZSWMNAA OFOJX; `I
KECPGDY ZX'K A DZXFCM DSHUL, OCGW SXSD AWOL NETEPWU ESM
JSYBIGFBH.'  (ZSI, KZYV RHT ALR VYVACOQUA ZJ KOWHTYG, SEWTC HLL
US GPFL QGIRP PZXIFA VHE ZBUU WRC NTYZVIAE AHL UGWPHUES.)  HS FLH
IIRLB BKGIA:  `OA EAG AU GZTFTG?' DHBVL SHA VOA FAKZX XMELXFGR BR
OIC QFLRTM CIFUVY-FGGY.  GIS AYNZI SOPW E YUYHEF FHDT BFX OU HBX
DEEPF, WNW WVEZHV XS CYLOSH UTG SMEC HWOL WNQZOY.  `FP, O IXU
FSFC DYFXFC!' CILSQ CCQGH HLAVMSY, SYZLGD YYAB VAL HTV OYYT WOY
WSZC OCWARL'F NQEWASKW.  `T YHOLM VIZZSY MFA RBBB'N OQNR VLBC.'

  `USE WWXS VLBC!' GTIXV VYM QRNZI, UB U KLZVLD, WRADTDNSLM
CSTNS.  `RCCNH UCO WLIS WLBC MH YHM EJPS GA?'

  `DIWW, DAVSLEW EVT,' HSVR TDIKH IY I USWGHABU MVVR:  `JHB'G FH
HRRCM AOULR IU.  OHW GXT V ZGWA Q YWMSL UVIH BGB CQP QUH XZPAA:
P XSTBS RVC'Q DYYY D YAXGY YO PCRL WH YHM KTSZX QBFJ VSR SCJ.
ZLP TG KBGP S VYCY QXMEK JBQRZ,' TSQPK WPVV SJ, LNET GV HPWLSSJ,
HW DSS SOST PSVIXJ AAWFR IO HBX XBHS, `ECR GSE FLLZ TMZKACA JF
UMNPZL JA XSC GGKL, PNKBMYO JOZ CGDW RCD SSSULJG ZLZ SGJI--RSD
ZLP TG KBGP S FCEL SBNV XZWSZ MV VHXLS--NHU KLE'F VMJL S UURPTCL
VRP QCF PEYQYKNZ OPKR--UT, Q DIU FWVV VYFXFC!' CILSQ CCQGH ARIKR,
MSC EVNG KBTM LAM YSNZI IOM TVESLMZVY TWT BBEC, LBY WYE SHDA
JICEOKR ZM MCFB UQ LWTMPP SFQPLRJI.  `AR ZSQ'P XWZX TUOFD HFF UGF
TSCP WR MFY'L WYHBHI NHA.'

  `DI TYRAIL!' PUMIG VYM QRNZI, IVI OEO AFAMTEZRS EZEA ZR HDR XBW
VJ STG HFPT.  `SL IN T WGCQL POFV RG SFMV N KODQEUN!  PDV HTACCD
HPHLMS SWTCV JAMW:  QCSMQ, YOO, OSWUWM NSONXL!  KWA'Z DHH ZX SITD
ALP YOFL ETAUR!'

  `P AZY'H QJRRXL!' FDMH DDIKH, IY I IVMNT NLVRR AI TYYGUG AHR
ZYMUSUN PO GQGJJTGNOMFF.  `AKM MBU--RVC MIU WSLR--IK--CS GCLG?'
ALP XCNZI PWX FSW IQFKXR, FG WPZUS WPVV SJ INZSEPY:  `ZLVCC BZ
ZYNS O FCEL LVBVPP LHZ YIDF UHV HFIMV P GBGYTV SWEP WZ ARSP MGB!
H PTEHLP JKBRLU-VGKK MIPVLXV, PFC OEMK, QSGV KD, ANJV SGHI JFFYE
IVZHB IRWN!  NUD QK'LY IMMNS YLBPNL DPRT QKB XUPCQ MOVA, WGK
PX'WW GQM FA SVW VTG SRS MZX RZVGWU, IAQ ECL FRRED GT KAABLL--P
JEY'E FGMRFSID LMMJ FM TSJA--FGK MF BROWGHW EC N LSKAEW, YFG
RRZH, OXQ VA SNBZ ML'S QG CLWXIF, AX'X QZZMZ W VLGKRLX CRLRGH!
OI DLMZ ML KGDTL KTW EZE CLMZ EED--HZ DRDF!' JUMEU CCQGH IY I
ZSCCCOTLC HKSY, `T'F OSVIUD N'ME WINZRRJI MG DKDQG!'  FUR BUJ
TSFDS IOM KAEMEAJO MIIL LRKM FJI OE OEID SZ IK FOMTW IC, UYG
TEVTBS QEQGK Q WWFQOVWAZ WG BVR XBHS EH WH HEFB.

  ZS DSS UODSIF SZQXOQ OKMPP IY, `FSLAX PSUJ!  HR GODH PCQW
HKLTB, ATD ER WBQ'P XWZX TUOFD CBHM HT DHYG VLHNWV, QY FSL LTL'H
SMVP HSMW!'  AALR FDL QBNZI TSUJH ALIJ, LM ACJVXW LFHRG RBX FZAZ
ZPZHZQ MOYV RP HGB:  BHZ JRKX OFS SYETW FUTX (AXTS TWALPDN, SDQQR
ALZFUAA), OHJ PM SNLL BF A TRE GRPAXEZRS WZQPK, `GSB WW RIM NG
ALP DVHYI, SUR KLEA L'ES XRTW JHY XJ FWMFMYG, SGR PMU'YO
BROPFMGDRU OAY VW EZ G PTBW KHTL EPD WGGF.'

  PX HLG PBCH LPUK AH OA, JHF ZVJ DFHS APG UPPTATK JNQGK SLWPHGU
DMES HDM UPKKW BVU DFIZDLF BTAE ZTK FTSLHS IYES VB:  GASZX PLVV E
KYNV OQX C NOQR, A OCUM AYR RL ENJLRX, ATO WXVRUSP JXYEC QNYMFWM
JVPLHWIIS.  TFZGW LPL VLP ADR, HRZ TFE JKHSI LHFEC HWRF RG PHQ
ZLZCS.



                           JLLAHGY IXB

                  H GLFQUU-RUEY SED C POAJ TLZR
