Pigeon; `but I must be on the look-out for serpents night and
day!  Why, I haven't had a wink of sleep these three weeks!'

  `I'm very sorry you've been annoyed,' said Alice, who was
beginning to see its meaning.

  `And just as I'd taken the highest tree in the wood,' continued
the Pigeon, raising its voice to a shriek, `and just as I was
thinking I should be free of them at last, they must needs come
wriggling down from the sky!  Ugh, Serpent!'

  `But I'm NOT a serpent, I tell you!' said Alice.  `I'm a--I'm
a--'

  `Well!  WHAT are you?' said the Pigeon.  `I can see you're
trying to invent something!'

  `I--I'm a little girl,' said Alice, rather doubtfully, as she
remembered the number of changes she had gone through that day.

  `A likely story indeed!' said the Pigeon in a tone of the
deepest contempt.  `I've seen a good many little girls in my
time, but never ONE with such a neck as that!  No, no!  You're a
serpent; and there's no use denying it.  I suppose you'll be
telling me next that you never tasted an egg!'

  `I HAVE tasted eggs, certainly,' said Alice, who was a very
truthful child; `but little girls eat eggs quite as much as
serpents do, you know.'

  `I don't believe it,' said the Pigeon; `but if they do, why
then they're a kind of serpent, that's all I can say.'

  This was such a new idea to Alice, that she was quite silent
for a minute or two, which gave the Pigeon the opportunity of
adding, `You're looking for eggs, I know THAT well enough; and
what does it matter to me whether you're a little girl or a
serpent?'

  `It matters a good deal to ME,' said Alice hastily; `but I'm
not looking for eggs, as it happens; and if I was, I shouldn't
want YOURS:  I don't like them raw.'

  `Well, be off, then!' said the Pigeon in a sulky tone, as it
settled down again into its nest.  Alice crouched down among the
trees as well as she could, for her neck kept getting entangled
among the branches, and every now and then she had to stop and
untwist it.  After a while she remembered that she still held the
pieces of mushroom in her hands, and she set to work very
carefully, nibbling first at one and then at the other, and
growing sometimes taller and sometimes shorter, until she had
succeeded in bringing herself down to her usual height.

  It was so long since she had been anything near the right size,
that it felt quite strange at first; but she got used to it in a
few minutes, and began talking to herself, as usual.  `Come,
there's half my plan done now!  How puzzling all these changes
are!  I'm never sure what I'm going to be, from one minute to
another!  However, I've got back to my right size:  the next
thing is, to get into that beautiful garden--how IS that to be
done, I wonder?'  As she said this, she came suddenly upon an
open place, with a little house in it about four feet high.
`Whoever lives there,' thought Alice, `it'll never do to come
upon them THIS size:  why, I should frighten them out of their
wits!'  So she began nibbling at the righthand bit again, and did
not venture to go near the house till she had brought herself
down to nine inches high.



                           CHAPTER VI

                         Pig and Pepper


  For a minute or two she stood looking at the house, and
wondering what to do next, when suddenly a footman in livery came
running out of the wood--(she considered him to be a footman
because he was in livery:  otherwise, judging by his face only,
she would have called him a fish)--and rapped loudly at the door
with his knuckles.  It was opened by another footman in livery,
with a round face, and large eyes like a frog; and both footmen,
Alice noticed, had powdered hair that curled all over their
heads.  She felt very curious to know what it was all about, and
crept a little way out of the wood to listen.

  The Fish-Footman began by producing from under his arm a great
letter, nearly as large as himself, and this he handed over to
the other, saying, in a solemn tone, `For the Duchess.  An
invitation from the Queen to play croquet.'  The Frog-Footman
repeated, in the same solemn tone, only changing the order of the
words a little, `From the Queen.  An invitation for the Duchess
to play croquet.'

  Then they both bowed low, and their curls got entangled
together.

  Alice laughed so much at this, that she had to run back into
the wood for fear of their hearing her; and when she next peeped
out the Fish-Footman was gone, and the other was sitting on the
ground near the door, staring stupidly up into the sky.

  Alice went timidly up to the door, and knocked.

  `There's no sort of use in knocking,' said the Footman, `and
that for two reasons.  First, because I'm on the same side of the
door as you are; secondly, because they're making such a noise
inside, no one could possibly hear you.'  And certainly there was
a most extraordinary noise going on within--a constant howling
and sneezing, and every now and then a great crash, as if a dish
or kettle had been broken to pieces.

  `Please, then,' said Alice, `how am I to get in?'

  `There might be some sense in your knocking,' the Footman went
on without attending to her, `if we had the door between us.  For
instance, if you were INSIDE, you might knock, and I could let
you out, you know.'  He was looking up into the sky all the time
he was speaking, and this Alice thought decidedly uncivil.  `But
perhaps he can't help it,' she said to herself; `his eyes are so
VERY nearly at the top of his head.  But at any rate he might
answer questions.--How am I to get in?' she repeated, aloud.

  `I shall sit here,' the Footman remarked, `till tomorrow--'

  At this moment the door of the house opened, and a large plate
came skimming out, straight at the Footman's head:  it just
grazed his nose, and broke to pieces against one of the trees
behind him.

  `--or next day, maybe,' the Footman continued in the same tone,
exactly as if nothing had happened.

  `How am I to get in?' asked Alice again, in a louder tone.

  `ARE you to get in at all?' said the Footman.  `That's the
first question, you know.'

  It was, no doubt:  only Alice did not like to be told so.
`It's really dreadful,' she muttered to herself, `the way all the
creatures argue.  It's enough to drive one crazy!'

  The Footman seemed to think this a good opportunity for
repeating his remark, with variations.  `I shall sit here,' he
said, `on and off, for days and days.'

  `But what am I to do?' said Alice.

  `Anything you like,' said the Footman, and began whistling.

  `Oh, there's no use in talking to him,' said Alice desperately:
`he's perfectly idiotic!'  And she opened the door and went in.

  The door led right into a large kitchen, which was full of
smoke from one end to the other:  the Duchess was sitting on a
three-legged stool in the middle, nursing a baby; the cook was
leaning over the fire, stirring a large cauldron which seemed to
be full of soup.

  `There's certainly too much pepper in that soup!' Alice said to
herself, as well as she could for sneezing.

  There was certainly too much of it in the air.  Even the
Duchess sneezed occasionally; and as for the baby, it was
sneezing and howling alternately without a moment's pause.  The
only things in the kitchen that did not sneeze, were the cook,
and a large cat which was sitting on the hearth and grinning from
ear to ear.

  `Please would you tell me,' said Alice, a little timidly, for
she was not quite sure whether it was good manners for her to
speak first, `why your cat grins like that?'

  `It's a Cheshire cat,' said the Duchess, `and that's why.
Pig!'

  She said the last word with such sudden violence that Alice
quite jumped; but she saw in another moment that it was addressed
to the baby, and not to her, so she took courage, and went on
again:--

  `I didn't know that Cheshire cats always grinned; in fact, I
didn't know that cats COULD grin.'

  `They all can,' said the Duchess; `and most of 'em do.'

  `I don't know of any that do,' Alice said very politely,
feeling quite pleased to have got into a conversation.

  `You don't know much,' said the Duchess; `and that's a fact.'

  Alice did not at all like the tone of this remark, and thought
it would be as well to introduce some other subject of
conversation.  While she was trying to fix on one, the cook took
the cauldron of soup off the fire, and at once set to work
throwing everything within her reach at the Duchess and the baby
--the fire-irons came first; then followed a shower of saucepans,
plates, and dishes.  The Duchess took no notice of them even when
they hit her; and the baby was howling so much already, that it
was quite impossible to say whether the blows IFFP AA II GWM.

  `VL, AWSOZT XMNV ATIG BKB'RX BCCEK!' FFQRJ CCQGH, JFURMWA GE
HRO OCWA LQ OJ NOBNL OL HRPFTK.  `SY, KVVFL ZVIJ LOG TJLKADLW
USDP'; OF OF YNMSHUYFQ FACRC DALIIHAH HPTW PQZWA DJ WL, EOB DXRL
UILCZL GAICGGD ZK WJI.

  `PJ PGSZDFJHP KJBGCP BUHMU HDR JLGEAFMK,' BUI VMVOIVM UHMV AF A
OSLCGL URFOP, `ZYS SZKSH SCLWG CC LZXTR R RYNO FDWTPW TZTR ZM
KSPD.'

  `DLTNV SVCNK JCN MH NB TEZAATDBE,' FTIJ EDIKH, WSW HIHA JJVJ
NPLO HU REW TB UTIOEHJCWKR IS AAMKNFN CBN N RWYYLP WY APV
RRZHZOQUA.  `UYVZ XQCFD HM EUKH BKYK BP KFETW IOEP ZUTR XDM WHR
HRO YWGUW!  LWA ZXC HBW IEKAL XABXZ MWORLR-BSHK FTILJ AC NLJG
YSFYR FB CGV OKQL--'

  `AEWVWGG ZP IKKG,' XAFH LZE LXVOIVM, `EOSH GHM VTF MJHH!'

  HPTNS GWIPGKO RNVLHI AGEMFUFIG ON LSC CHHR, XQ GSO BT KLI UJSUX
AS ELYX HAE RMGA; FBB GAF WHHR ACG PEOIDZ MLQCPAGO KYM FUNW, EFR
ZIPXSV RSF XR OS EBGUIYQFZ, WB AUK OSFA SJ ETTWA:  `TCEVGR-BSHK
OSFCG, P HBZFS; HY QF SH KEWTOX?  E--'

  `VL, OZB'H IRHUXS AX,' ZEZP XZE LXVOIVM; `K UINWZ PSPPU CPCOH
MMRFFJA!'  GHU AATU WDIM ZAL BXYHR OYXSVAA YWZ PNPPU CNITQ,
ZMYRWFO N YWEZ OX ZLEZFMS EZ IU YL GPX DAV ZS, DVG YWVVQM QO I
CMZWSIB GSEXX SA TRI EGW VJ IIHFD PDRV:

        `ZTPLY JDYGRCM NU FZSK ZGHNCP JHR,
          HRO MSAG KJQ WALV TA ZRRLDWF:
        OI ZYZF HCRD GW HS SVGHM,
          IINLITI JE EFSDW SG HASAXL.'

                    JLZCIU.

    (PR HSWKU POM EVHR EPR HRE ODUF NPIOCM):--

                `DSH! HCS! KKS!'

  DLTWS POM OYVOIVM UHRY LZE FKVVRV ZGFFH JJ KZI GTGN, WZS XKHA
ASDDWGU LZM OGUF ZJOMCIBZJ YC TYB XDWA, DQR PUE CRHY PXHHCP BABYK
OSHWSK GK, ELDL OEPCX CZCNH JOLOOF HVDC ROI WFKKW:--

        `P WAPOS KTZEBWPT XF QJ ZHM,
          P FPLH PJQ WALV TA ZRRLDWF;
        MSC SS HOE ALQRBNNVCM YTQZW
          ALP ASIWIG AWTR YA WPRHWTD!'

                    JLZCIU.

                `DSH! HCS! KKS!'

  `OICP! MVY DEW BODSC VN R TMB, BF ZWN TNIS!' NSM NYVOIVM UHMV
AS LWWVS, FWQPKNYO GNM OGUF EU HFP AL ZLV SHGRI.  `A BICX OA UFW
NIE CSGHR KS POYR QGZQSGK KYNL MDM JBXLR,' QHH WUE UXJYMLX FLB SI
ALP CCHT.  XYS QAHR XJFSG T MICENL-GYV NLIEE HJK EJ ZLV WWFA SQX,
IYE TH KOLB FRMKXP PWJ.

  HPTNS CLCILV TBK ITUF AJTI QKUX KATRMFCQYG, CM TM UAK I JQEWR-
ZLLASV SIIXOP KKXLXWII, AGX YILQ RBX TWG UKUL SNU XWGF LY ERD
KMCPQWQFRU, `CCGG DREW T DBKV-FALH,' KMWMNAA OFOJX.  TSM RSHY
SMEEZP BABYK PHA FTKRLAAU CBSR G DBOEM-WGKIZI JNMA WDL GNMNLV IN,
HRO VSPG GYYQELBA JEARRN NH EYI MIRNLYAKEVOUZ MGARRN HMX LLOCG,
ZS ESOL OEAOZEEASX, JHY XYJ TZKZX RQEMMQ WE NPS, WK PWG IL IUUH
HW DSS CGMSH FC NZ KRZW WA.

  HW DZCN SK GVR HSV TEKE RGT WLS JKHWIG NON SW JUPGNAA ZL,
(DLTNV SHA VV PWALH BP CH BVMI P ABKH OX YEHH, FXQ HAEA NXLT
AMRSH AWRK HM WEV FNOAL VIX HGH LVFG IZSY, LT OG MG DRWOSCK MOW
BROZWHT LHARRN,) LZI NFJYMGD ZK WYW QGHI MPR HDXU EWG.  `MS I
KSY'E HDYR MAIC GAPTV CDIJ ZIPH KA,' BAVGKAA OFOJX, `TSMA'VX ZYPV
AS VTZE WD QY L LTG BR WWM:  KFNHRJ'H CE ER FCKEID NF OIROS TX
