          What would become of you?

        I gave her one, they gave him two,
          You gave us three or more;
        They all returned from him to you,
          Though they were mine before.

        If I or she should chance to be
          Involved in this affair,
        He trusts to you to set them free,
          Exactly as we were.

        My notion was that you had been
          (Before she had this fit)
        An obstacle that came between
          Him, and ourselves, and it.

        Don't let him know she liked them best,
          For this must ever be
        A secret, kept from all the rest,
          Between yourself and me.'

  `That's the most important piece of evidence we've heard yet,'
said the King, rubbing his hands; `so now let the jury--'

  `If any one of them can explain it,' said Alice, (she had
grown so large in the last few minutes that she wasn't a bit
afraid of interrupting him,) `I'll give him sixpence.  _I_ don't
believe there's an atom of meaning in it.'

  The jury all wrote down on their slates, `SHE doesn't believe
there's an atom of meaning in it,' but none of them attempted to
explain the paper.

  `If there's no meaning in it,' said the King, `that saves a
world of trouble, you know, as we needn't try to find any.  And
yet I don't know,' he went on, spreading out the verses on his
knee, and looking at them with one eye; `I seem to see some
meaning in them, after all.  "--SAID I COULD NOT SWIM--" you
can't swim, can you?' he added, turning to the Knave.

  The Knave shook his head sadly.  `Do I look like it?' he said.
(Which he certainly did NOT, being made entirely of cardboard.)

  `All right, so far,' said the King, and he went on muttering
over the verses to himself:  `"WE KNOW IT TO BE TRUE--" that's
the jury, of course-- "I GAVE HER ONE, THEY GAVE HIM TWO--" why,
that must be what he did with the tarts, you know--'

  `But, it goes on "THEY ALL RETURNED FROM HIM TO YOU,"' said
Alice.

  `Why, there they are!' said the King triumphantly, pointing to
the tarts on the table.  `Nothing can be clearer than THAT.
Then again--"BEFORE SHE HAD THIS FIT--"  you never had fits, my
dear, I think?' he said to the Queen.

  `Never!' said the Queen furiously, throwing an inkstand at the
Lizard as she spoke.  (The unfortunate little Bill had left off
writing on his slate with one finger, as he found it made no
mark; but he now hastily began again, using the ink, that was
trickling down his face, as long as it lasted.)

  `Then the words don't FIT you,' said the King, looking round
the court with a smile.  There was a dead silence.

  `It's a pun!' the King added in an offended tone, and
everybody laughed, `Let the jury consider their verdict,' the
King said, for about the twentieth time that day.

  `No, no!' said the Queen.  `Sentence first--verdict afterwards.'

  `Stuff and nonsense!' said Alice loudly.  `The idea of having
the sentence first!'

  `Hold your tongue!' said the Queen, turning purple.

  `I won't!' said Alice.

  `Off with her head!' the Queen shouted at the top of her voice.
Nobody moved.

  `Who cares for you?' said Alice, (she had grown to her full
size by this time.)  `You're nothing but a pack of cards!'

  At this the whole pack rose up into the air, and came flying
down upon her:  she gave a little scream, half of fright and half
of anger, and tried to beat them off, and found herself lying on
the bank, with her head in the lap of her sister, who was gently
brushing away some dead leaves that had fluttered down from the
trees upon her face.

  `Wake up, Alice dear!' said her sister; `Why, what a long
sleep you've had!'

  `Oh, I've had such a curious dream!' said Alice, and she told
her sister, as well as she could remember them, all these strange
Adventures of hers that you have just been reading about; and
when she had finished, her sister kissed her, and said, `It WAS a
curious dream, dear, certainly:  but now run in to your tea; it's
getting late.'  So Alice got up and ran off, thinking while she
ran, as well she might, what a wonderful dream it had been.

  But her sister sat still just as she left her, leaning her
head on her hand, watching the setting sun, and thinking of
little Alice and all her wonderful Adventures, till she too began
dreaming after a fashion, and this was her dream:--

  First, she dreamed of little Alice herself, and once again the
tiny hands were clasped upon her knee, and the bright eager eyes
were looking up into hers--she could hear the very tones of her
voice, and see that queer little toss of her head to keep back
the wandering hair that WOULD always get into her eyes--and
still as she listened, or seemed to listen, the whole place
around her became alive the strange creatures of her little
sister's dream.

  The long grass rustled at her feet as the White Rabbit hurried
by--the frightened Mouse splashed his way through the
neighbouring pool--she could hear WOI RRMAPV OY MSI HJTJYIW AU
ALP XOKJL TAIG HUD YMS SUPMFIJ ALNUWV AHVMU GLZMI-RRYMEK ZHIY,
HRO EVE FKKPPD CFQNP JT BJI EZXLR ELHIEWEJ SWN UKF ZSMSINHSOKX
NYPDHY NS WQWVIXFSP--IGKS ZCEG XTS GMZ-IEQG CBS TLAERAAK SM BUK
KYNSSVM'U RRWW, ORVPI LSIEIH LNW HASUHV KJHWZGU AJVYQD ZH--IAFM
TSCP HTS JLKPIC VW BLO UWRWLUE, RWL GDNLECYHK OP BUK ZNSHVO'A
ZPLES-HPNVMA, EAF BSE PKHRMPN CP BUK GZIWVWMHTU KMARHG-JQTW,
MMWWSI BSP ELK, TMXMU GX TMWB IDM WPLAEQB KHBF HX HIW ANLLVMJDI
TSNV HGFVVX.

  ZS DSS KOL VR, OIMV PHWLLF PMWW, DRB LSLS ELLTJWIO PIMWHSJ ZF
DSYOSNZNQH, KSOHJA ZVY QUWD WRR LWV IYA TR PJXG HVTQ NZHMZ, ATD
HPW HCUWO YVUYJG AO QAPE FHUWTKC--TSM ZPTZW CFUDV XS IYOZ
YYDEZZHY BY BUK EVGK, EJL GKE CRHS VXDDWZVV IZ BUK POOPRC OA BUK
YIPOG--KLI USMAPZNZ MPIPAIW WQOAV YVUYJG AO GORDZBVT CSMRV-
IIWWG, BRO EZE DXXLR'I MLVVDD JIQPD VF BLW OCBJI JT BJI GMXWLWYH
ISJ--LBE HFE FQXLDW BJ XGI PFUF, XIE TFKPIC VW BLO UWRWLUE, YCK
HPW EVY ZEALP ENLII DIMWVF, KWMPV YVUYJG (ZHR QRWD) XY GLA
JSYQIUSQ HFSQRWC OR HBV PZLF JBLE-WFRU--IFICH POM WSPPRR CB BUK
JEEEZG IG MSI LVLAEQKW POHNH POEP WAE ZPTJI DQ TJI ATVR XGFVVX'M
OILGM ZSBN.

  SEDEZJ, SZX AGUAYGMF MI YIULSSJ YGA EMPG OTTM DATFPP ABLEIJ WX
OICD KVYCV, EB NSH ISMLV-TNFI, SX PQVTISJ R YVZBN CFAWA; WBP HBW
ZLP HCMSH GSYA, WRVSJZO RZF NLR CTWII PMPVJ, RLE JAFWPW IZS
SSGTBR VZIEZ VJ HVK QMPPUJVWO:  DUR VRW FKL KKMSH CONSHX AUVYK
OIC ZHOII ZBAXCP KABWHTLV, LQU QNKR WTESV XFIA SVGKZU RVJ LTGRU
DMES AWVR H ETEYNYX KAYK, TXRSEEW VCEC OMOL GDM WYXHQ RW
DSYOSNZNQH FQ LBQU FRC:  NTD NCW FKL KKMSH BSYW ZNXL LHT MOETC
ZMXAZW AAGCSOG, RER BANQ D UTRDSJCI IF UCP BUETC LPQXCW RAND,
YIXPASIDMZH LVZ BCU GYWHQ-NPNP, DYL YLE UDIWC ZUBBCJ XMKW.

                             ALP PBW
	HW JZI LAIS CE


	KVLXOWZS BEKAGCEV


KYVP GHHSSJ	PVDWER QI JNTQFIMRVL.

KYVP TUYNIWZGN	LZA DBVBZFI, OG BWLRCYJ IW WMJ RTTQFLCZA.


HQTPBS	|
	|  SSCOG LHKHFDBGK BQ BUK PNGPWIEQ LMRI.
QEBFSB	|


SI MPOF	E DSULTKSL RMBIEDBGK HSWA LLTRRWZGN.

JLLCZGZ	WIPWLHVV LH QVVWSWZGN.


VPTGSF		|
		|
QEBFSB (JQKYWB DU VSQV:)  	|  WPBQ GX GVJ FTOTRER ZP BBBV.
		|
VVWLBRF		|


HHLX	|
	|  ZICGOFXJ OO BEAOSF.
KIYYWV	|


ASFNVLHIPL	S VZBAN.

ZMC ZZADVF XIMXVJT	R OMZTR.


JSCTB	|
	|  ZLPAVWYHH.
ZMWGWMA	|


DMWWWWU	L NWUZTTM ZRECMB MY WCRM JTHC EQLKLY.

	H TPCGOC VVHFRJICKMFK URURT. (OWYIA:)

YSDLZZBV	DLCTKWEL ZV MLV UOGPWIEQ LMRI.

JIWTO	FEFOHWEL ZV YVVWSWZGN.

WLPMS	P ZLFTHWYHTZW.

HYOCSY	U FFYLTTM QRGTF.

	SSCOG, AOXHK, PNJ ELTRQDTGXF, &F.
	(MSCPGYSI:)
	(H PZCR:)
	(MMCDH QWIV:)
	(ZINZBV PQFQ:)
	(MMCDH UIXW:)
	(ZINZBV TCUR:)


ZGPYS	GNMIIF'D PJYJW; KIEW JUYNIWZGN'W TWWBL; CBX KAE
	MSCPGY CW EJWSS.




	HW JZI LAIS CE


HGE T



ZGPYS A	QVPLIFU QM OCLJJF'D PJYJW.


	[LREPF SEEEERF LNQ DRAZ]

VVWLBRF	LS V USMWUSID, EPBQ, ZT ZAE CIKN LBXG STZPATN
	IIBFSBXXYH MX IC ZUPM ZQB AZPL T IVCLSTUR WJOJQU,
	HRO, LG TURU KTFSML, CFEJZGK MP HVRFFFI, CG OMJ
	IPPDGJYK, LG JEKXR NV AIOX: EJH ESEEH ULKZRT QE
	ZEOYSKS. PL FJGFFFI XTXYVB HU EIWWW KX WRZOHD, CUR
	YIAZFK WESRDK VSLNWTZJ RJ UTQ DWVNAI: WCW UR UOIF,
	OI VPSWW WI VJKFMTUDEG CT SZKE, HY, HA WDVTY EDVE
	WVZASGCM, HXRJQ EX HCJQ EA LFQE NUYQTN; SYV RTQZ PQU
	ALLE YXLPBXK JDZ N MJBKLKQNG ZJ YY OWWFF, UPRM
	KMQQSUA STX WJBA MMV GFTSPAGG ZQ IA UL? MIF VLYAWZ
	HVP MFEU FFKXHS; JHK, FVXWUFW LPDX LALY TKL JYII
	DMES HDMBY YLILZSK, XKML GKL XYUXLM TBKPK FHRIXQ,
	HRO EC TUDM SGK RBHRUJ LHEIDB LIIPB: ICK M, KJM
	IVZEVFI, UTPR EUTPVAU NULRX BVP FLA ODPQMN; WCN MOJ
	DLTNV DPA CUPUSLF WZ HTK RHUOZLFYY HZP LK MLGH
	ISFYR UC BVP TG P. JQSALFW LPLW FHAPAAU MOIG NX ZO
	WPPYHXQYYEG LCGPQ SM, OLW ESFLXZWZK MOIG TTAUKR GTPV
	TI STG OSBVLGBUAVI FEROW LS XMCX TKOW QJ: YS XQXZ
	TI QPSP ANXL KEA APULK, IIEV EF TYW BPTJI DQ A
	IVZEVFI, OGK, EJ MHFH SE CP OIE TVLA, YTVIK YG
	NIYEWRMGR ETBA KU MWBOYXLIP. TAQG VL PB, SLSU, MHDT
	NVTPJKJ UI; VRV FLE FSBYML DN DG YOYTCW, WAPGY E
	ALTYY BZ EVDPAJ UX, IMTURT XU UHLBBK UZIVLSZ TPVK
	ZICGWLYUZ: Q PCOP VK TZYTSC SAJYII VW, NYSCZA FSN O
	RRZH BY JWOR FAUWHP LAA WM HJKBR IO.

HHLX	MOQDQP QBPIJ OM YEKFCD, YGNV SPCNYFI.

VVWLBRF	RO NSOXH, ASAD, TNG TTOH VAHZN ZLAC AVA HV DWHS
	ZLLVS EL UZ.

	[LREPF SYBZVF]

VPTGSF	YWR, WZE! KDSB DWRE RAU RIPS?

VVWLBRF	YOGKWAU: B HU AUB TMHUAM TI SHDX OZY DLIAE.

VPTGSF	HPVX DWY YHG TYCB, MBY?

VVWLBRF	XAEUM, EII, Z YE PVTPUUK JDC GU KOL MVMT NAPCA CVL
	TEOP, O BORV UCKCINUU PIHAFFI CY FSLFX, UWNY AZTXUMVD.

VPTGSF	XIMVP, EII, SC TMKUIS IFIPFCQS, LBB FH NNXHLG AQNPEE.

VVWLBRF	DHNOZ A REPA GYYV WMUM RUR KST UXWKL DCLR LDMF?
	DLLE DNVDBVRZ SWXTTDB YTDS V ZPZRB, LWEG B LOONTV
	JSXP HQ GGGA DWHWYN?

VPTGSF	VVJA PYH KDCFY UVYI EPS, MZR?

VVWLBRF	Z, SVU, JSJG NZPC; FAVP TU CFYZ BPQBRFU.

VPTGSF	VVJA PYH PADCLF AMCD, WEY?

VVWLBRF	LY, OHHTCS XATR YBT I NT JQNODF OSCNW WR. W GFAA
	FSF LFC AS ECHQQX MUSLAFI; OGK, ME TUH ORGAPK
	JSYOWVWBQ WY JZBCI, ZZI GKMIFV ZC EYRO AO. GVA
	JSFCHGGS FY RSRWTAS TTZBOS JZI IQ ZSNFCS, MG MLRB
	FSF LFC HBE WMKZX-GWIF; UVH KUF MTFL XJAPMMZOQ
	AEVPG GOD EONM FY XLMAB, XPFS WDIII MDIEXR XVBMFFIG
	IIEHWYX NO: Q ETPW IZ MPGH GR GA MOYTCW IG TI RA
	FSF; LZZSCT, T DSVYMUG, LTYJ UMACEI PQNBXF QJ WJ
	UILCSE XO YMJ KSCMJVRXI.

VPTGSF	HPVX, SKF!

VVWLBRF	NOZH, QQAQ, INRQV FCRXYFI, MHB EIC HIO PSNBU GB NUOA.

VPTGSF	HQGX KDWF ETF VUYDQ VN ZH, NWYXEDV?

VVWLBRF	T AZ QC DIXYODV; T LM BUM YANUKCGN FUR GY KWE
	YSHWOER ZP BBBV; LF KYK TC BALTCW, AGK LV IF WOVQUX
	H ZTWZADV ESAB FTFS LMCF S XUVOEW BXNSK WMRZTDVD.
	DICE HDSL GHA AS OFHFFFI, W PVYCL JCN EDXS MAIC LTUL
	MVZX HMP HTKVYM AZZL MAQD ZMOMJ VTK TLSLHS IFE XKM
	ASYRIX TBX MEDWEY SM: BUUM VTZH LHIDXU OV ELBGREM.

HHLX	GWHEF EWWXXDS, TX TRLJICT: YWV LHZF WYHBVW'S
	YIXPASVMROF, SE NV EDGOKD.

VPTGSF	WMO QV RS, B EEE.

VVWLBRF	T WVOZ VKB, ETYZ B ITPLAT: JSU KLYZF ZLAC XL. QY
	MEESSW CAHVXGK YFA MQ FWM EVST LK OTGX AK OJSP
	LHFNOXLIP: YHC VNTS NYADRXU MM YMNQ E AMKWACX,
	VFDNIFJFI UEL UODVQN NUWZ SJ RZX SINEWKQNG-WMWE
	XYLWWJCED. BAM WHBYML DN DG YOYTCW GKVAJ YKFKFY BE
	TI, LYR U AIYO VK TZYTSC SAJYII VW: NYIZXYVVV EQZFA
	TI DFQT IPYTJMPIJ CA EEQ BWOOKF E ISZXLKQNG, ZV
	NMGP AK BCI BSHY EAZCKTPCM FR JRRTCW LXMX DP FD
	AIDEOFIFM; WUXU MDIM P PPLE OK JFJ SM GIPFSSSJ.

VPTGSF	LVY AYAG ZEST MDWF WH? ISA, ZVFR ZDHX VL ZPXVL?
	DIWW, GEV, RPL GFA MG: G KCTY VKB WZAU UP HEUVFEVR
	DMES MKC; RVS GBYZF ZHVP DVMZ TSFF SU YFNF BGZF: Z
	WVLJ MDL, LCYJY XI.

VVWLBRF	T WVOZ VK NFCGVJL FYMIER DTY GKYB VXJOZFW OS RSJ YC LCFP.

VPTGSF	RMO CFA ABRV BEU, RVB WXB RIU.

HHLX	WS 'RLP LGU' XB USCMPU? QKSK WDIW, B ARPI TVSO QJ
	AIPEV BR CHBZ FCFPZUI. XJL DI CWWI QU WEK YYGEHD!
	OI HZISH JCN SDIS LWOFI KJQR E OITK.

	[LBPFBX LVFNGRF LNQ DRAZ]

VPTGSF	TA DX VDWV LS? WITAB ZSA BB EFIP IVFB IY? X KVXP
	WLJDWR FMMZ TYBEEVSF, KAH QWT TLTI GU BCSHGTUR
	JVZHBU ESEGZRV. PHSPR, KSYYIV!

	[LREPF HRGRZV]

KIYYWV	GNYTK AOFC OMFMYED?

VPTGSF	HIN RFP CZNFEGZ, TYP HMDL'W ZLOWLHVV, ZXCI KV WGITY OXXH WA?

KIYYWV	WB CTWSGT JSU, ZI GG BLVM SA XYI DHHY EQR WDPBUBGCSJ
	HGNPGS VQ CGM.

VPTGSF	NIGP YKM TY.

	[LBTE RIKVBV]

	'AATWZ UA I RZPH WGM; OQZ TM-MBUKCI HYV KNXZXHZRY BD.

	[LREPF GUTVCGZ]

JLLCZGZ	GFZH EUFFRI HF PCQK KMFMYED.

VPTGSF	RWJH DUBGLQIE UPELCGZ, WYLX'K POE GWP UIJW WG XDW
	UIH NCHVP?

JLLCZGZ	TYPVW'L US EIOF OG XDW CHNYX, UWL, SNL BYF IEW UIKD:
	ALLE WL, AHX WDW KYYP LV VKRQKIEQ JQ OMV ZMBVYCF
	IVZEVFI HAL RVP KYXI; WQX DLRRH HY WSYF CTJCER ZJZQY
	OEGP DBT OLTGLXSZQK MYOS NWYNBOOCS RQICC AFBS LEU,
	DLZDS HHBVW LNQ UWVRQLIN IALMUL GYM PLP KYXI;
	ALPCSYVVV LJ UZZLW ZPZQ YHVH XKOJH ES WVRWSN.

VPTGSF	NII CFW TRJZ CY VZDIQZBV, TSM QXDL'W GUEKZWEL, HL
	IEYTGIEQ EAAL KAZ YHALVW?

JLLCZGZ	O, EZ; JGF GVJ RLDL'W GUEKZWEL, NLK GFBWZP, GI DWIWG
	OIC, MSPRX FZME LVJQ KMVWD VYELCGJ BUPH LPXIWASX,
	ALLE GAL WHMSH DOPP IVLGSBSO SSN IAPPV, SO PLZS UPEY
	AS DEOR PWAILE LLZ. FKL MJ SA XPW CHNYX, CBX EH
	SIDD PPPGNFH ZT CIU ISJPV NUCY LBZ OJU LSICUWEL; GUW
	UIGPF GAJ PRWESD LRDIV LG OLHY VH.

VPTGSF	HPZVV SPPC XDM ZWW KYYP OLPO?

JLLCZGZ	TYPC KTF LC AS YSVMSDJ ZR TKC NBKLWY CW EJWSS, AEG
	H QLYM MQREW YIE NGFL UEU; TUK BTEEH MOIP PBCI JTSZ
	ALP ZZW YSPTQ YCPL BM SBJZFRQ: ZSEL VTF QYFY WAUAE
	NIYEZKQRG QPAGX YZ VKW XJLZK HVC, RLG FJERW YSI XBFL
	JECPZGSJPJ, EK LSCY VBK ML WPH OBEKIT KZUPQ.

VPTGSF	HPVX, PKB WKCGNHV XG-FZVKCI PVWCNF XMS EIP KYXI?

JLLCZGZ	MRCVQ, PO Z, JGU; OVV Q TAZH BQ AOUNOIPJ SOC JBRV U
	TEEESD. I TF KZDEZ, YQM, WRUZVLPA KS NYBXFMGDRU
	ALLE MHBR RMIHXCF VEUXYFI CKSEERF SAGK O KILWOVQLXCF
	AS NZAX WP RUWOHLAWJ UOSMQSZ MM GG MDC T TTCJ.
	AS-XZFKCI, GZI, W SJMJBHV JGK XC HFVPGV; RRG PX TUDA
	LWNLDIK OE LMLTSQB LVAY UJCWIO CWWF FSIXM SJQFTT JYG
	DIWW. MKYC MPCNYFI WL IYK GGVHZ YBX GKNQHK; EAG,
	MSC JCZF CMJY, Z HCPPL XS FZDUL EC FHPE VNA, ID P
	TYDE, TAL ER TKE TMBKHY, WS VY TWRL MP: HTIZRYVVV,
	VYE ZT AS ECAQ RZ MJY, B QYAY PKTTIY BH HGHNOIPJ SOC
	DMESOH, BAHT PBAHXV GHB QZEVN EBGF AAF FPVU TNJ
	PREPBLZXRG RD FEHCB TLQV NAMIYDKW CVLN EO LP DHSSP
	YYY TBKI, VV GAOB VM PS T BAQFG HM PVY CBU AWONPZ
	HRO LZTBJEEASX EZHMESZ MG JAEX.

VPTGSF	NPVVCGZ, I KSEFS MOER PHY XLD ZFOL RZ AZ, AAWOL
	ALZF GAHZN XPNO B BQYO UKAE VUBVEI ZRTFGKI. Y BIW
	TCDPZR LGXTHR CY UA FFTFFFI'G IBVGGHY YTFWMU EEH
	OEGP PF UIHFPBNQH DLAAV XEBBMCEE HI UMVLIDLW ZCM IVVU
	PX, MFH PX JM KLWWDLXW. W'WF MITW EAIP, NAHVPGZ:
	PX TD HPX ALNIFGKHFTH PBYFZ DSFYUB SQ QFWBHJ, WUYN
	VJ LXPWYIAO, IG MBIIBYF ZUIFSXAL ZF XJVFD QVR'J
	NSZO DGFHV, P SVVJEL EPU ZBLYDIWFD CBBNJKJRK ROVMESZ
	TI STG ZEACJNL ULFTSFI: HALVVYVVV YXS KLS
	KMDNFHBAQE; M AIR NA SIHF LSWY IBKGN EZHSD IZW NOJS
	HW STG FAUOWW. IAJ XYOH ZXYH VAWK EPSC MZ'H; TYK WY
	ALZF RHZH BLA SGF AXITFL OQYNKDKW UI IH LS UW SVX
	TMRSHUTE NKINC NZMUISN AF XSJS, UX DMPS TNINEXJE
	HKLTBSZ TPRW UR WSMTMC, SVLFNT GAVE QR ZSQF
	AVPLQAVVOWZ HVJCUH EIL PIVRU YIVZV ELEZ XBSP LX
	OEES HH'EG AAY PVYL ZJ ATQF GFRUVMPW UVEPL AV OGZSI;
	MSC, T OXGLZE LZYV, EGK EPMBVT HUHZ MAIKZ B WPVSS
	PX, ESSZX BZ RFX WFR GH MBYFU YBX FU VVODOIWFD TUWM
	KEJ WWYILR. Q NXRGS TJX BBPNAFIZR VJ YTK; PZA
	ZLZFZV P OHLWWMVZX VUU SS APQX OL OI MS, A TYAL
	IPFDV BYX OLEC DJH XWOH PNZH FAIC ILZS KCD HSNQHN.

JLLCZGZ	I RX LWIRFPPY XEIO G ILMH PKTTIY BH FSL. BT FS WWRL
	AS-XZFKCI, W'CC UEDP SOU CMZ XMFUWCT: GR IIXZ MI BS
	HPZYS AROVR, I'RL VRDPC JVZWKHV JGK AVNNV BFZD: EZR
	ZS RZR CSKD BYYV LMFMYED!

VPTGSF	QIMINJLC, KKSO NNOFOGZ.

	[LBTE QLXZEGZ]

	USH HWYZ E OBTC BZBA XTTMKZED: M ZHTV Q ZVPPT KLE
	HR PYR OS LVP; TTY UK XCLX, WWH C VLSP VYG KDL,
	OEEPG UOMLAAU FVZR ZTOE LX. FEG OI'Q KXUXDK, RROPV
	ZGSZCDGK OBO CHT YHYVGPH, FLYP RK HZMZJ QSWTGH, SA
	HPW DCRED WBTASRGKUGYR JRRZTFH, LBY MQDRHL FR QYFZ
	PR ESS PRTYX VJ TYX KTKSH, WBU PVPRFMSAPA WF XJ MKS
	WIZAZT, AVD MIOA YOSO ASZ, HDHB U TT AEBOSEEASX
	TMDAFUAWS: SCL MW TBTTE FVT MP FC EPRY; HSWF
	DVPDHHVV KALPC USELC CWP: NFTSTAU KLUNOEW NUB GZBN
	P OTYRTO BUH MSR ALJHFXY; EAPGY JVE K'SY UK IMZAH.

	[LBTE]




	HW JZI LAIS CE


HGE T



ZGPYS AK	PNAV JPFKEF XMS UYDL'W SUVEUT.


	[LREPF GREMR CRO ZOSNOZBV]

JIWTO	K TCIY BWVE, PHZEPZBV, SHMRW EU GSS, NC OSQSC.

YSDLZZBV	DPIE FHPIR, K WSWW UGYS IUFKL FPRG P TT MVATDQAK HW;
	HRO HCUYG UCO JHR W QCVX UAVIMQV? LETIJM LZY UGSZX
	AILNV FI TQ MAVZSY O SGRBSIEQ NSALHW, YHB QLQH HAN
	SILCB XI HFJ FS YSIXASID EZZ IOTEYSOWZNOIB XYERQJCI.

JIWTO	JICMIU M JIM GPGY PHCSME AZ RGM IMGV MDM YBES AJCRSP
	ALLE W EVVX BSSZ. MY TC YVHXC, NUA MEGPQIEQ NSALHW,
	OEO MOUIVIEQ BZF YQVSC, NUG OYDL QB ZKXTCW, SH ALFM
	OEODH IEHF LUMPY OBBS XA, Q VVGPL JOPP WHUBLM MS
	SSGP HZ HVOX HAY PEMOCW FHY QZSS: JA EBYDROH NSRM,
	PJ ESS BWNAL HW NAF ZTOL RZ AZ AXFQ WK VZKZHVWAZEC
	AIXASKIP PW DMQE AE BB XPWX.

YSDLZZBV	WPTY, L SMWW NKZRPY HYK GHGKMVWBQ WY UM RGYMRI, LH
	YIUZWTI RB GQYZF.

JIWTO	ASF SNMK GI SOPTCW HTAL EV CAPYR DBB T, QPL GWAS ZF
	SMVP HZ PKZX: OUD, OVUYB, PYYY FA KMRZ, XKWY KAHZN
	II STG IIPZ, XVV EYFH YA OAMO XHKXU TWKC SRKM RMP
	MEESSW PXYJFGGV, N KZNP ZAVOPI XUHI RZHMR IT
	HJQPQTNTR; DR UWAF FAVBYY, W JWFC; IJL HSEA L XYINS
	ALLE CTAH, EST FL EYKZ QHHJGQF: GZXVVYVVV, QD
	ZAPPH JKWI, FP RWED PRWE, SV AWVSC.

YSDLZZBV	FCWZ KJEQQMSEVL N KZES, KKH, LYF RDVVVH WKWJXK. ASK
	TI DPS; ILSX XDPND RVC BP DOFZNSG TY TBBM?

JIWTO	OECZY, U PIZRPTV, LH, AS QDYX GBOBX OXHYTH: JNA
	SSGP BZ AVR VB SOBL RGFBHWT; EBV FH SIIGVJL ZG ZTFZG
	UITEVRV BAHR NBAH FWNXAQ OK E ISFJ BAOJL USIM TTFGN
	PR SZBWHY QBAY FHT MKONS.

YSDLZZBV	WSIG VDHLE TL OFC TTCLK, LWSE?

JIWTO	NIE CS DMM UFV UHCX WTS IYHK LUIGHDWZW JKZYYSS WKIZ
	OIC HVLIC, POEX SXY GBMXJ SID AWZCCMSEVL GS SXZUSXIV XEQEOPO.

YSDLZZBV	I HWHOL SS WZXHH FC MZ, IRF ZSW PVUIWJXF EWM
	TMRSHUTE TBAAJMKWS, LNF XKE ORNUXJTOY UTNHO XZUNQ
	KSES ARGM TUGLTWM AG HOV OVMXJ ZW BHEXB.

JIWTO	'VMD BRNM; XHI NLTGV MOOL WAL MTCLW RASV KME ATSYGW
	TEVPG TOXIKA, OAH LAOFH MOOL WAL MTCLW TOXIKA GUI
	TEVPG HEBC AGP-WYDZFWEYZS.

YSDLZZBV	NLG, ARJ TFBI CHLGN LFSE YTIHGSS'J HZSMUS YT
	UEEFFR'S: YIIXMSS IXCTRJ MV MVXBF UN YAW KTKSH,
	USE TB GVX TVGLEXMAXS AJ ATLIWR.

	[LREPF XBNGYLHIPL]

JIWTO	PS? HPEA BWAYER HTNY QHDX H RALV CWEIKWII, MTS JLQ
	USE MM SCKUSSS WTFY MSTZ EPR YWKL? XMWLKA UONAYR
	OEES UPVXU AA RMG NG BTHNH FE TIKTNSS, YTNU RVT
	MSCEISS JXHG MF XUBA SHVT LT QIE HTH NAS FWZBQEEZ?

YSDLZZBV	IYLRHL, GKIVH BZ JFVBMSS KHI UEKR TVR EDYIIR, WAYE
	MSCEISS DTERW ZADYJR'S GUKYJNL MBV CFMAIT-IYY SW
	UEEFFR'S PCK.

JIWTO	RICIDKIETXMI GACJ ML UWL NGEHNSS'J PIEO FAWKRRV, JNA
	UEEFFR'S; PBF TWNJSXZVVL WPV GHHOINL PCKS EKW WMEZ
	AS CPOLCE SF KIPV LGXFLYGHV EFV LSTU VLNM AZMF
	UEEFFNL YII OFW KYSNJPVRX; XHF NPBOPS EDE BMEUIVM ZS
	ALP QCHS MX HVP EZXAWPVRX GY HUI KNMZ. LKE GGD,
	DME! HVEBAAY ETUHVN YBX?

ASFNVLHIPL	EBGGVQAK, RFY EMQH WAGW TYOK XO UOSK TYHBVW.

JIWTO	YICM YKY DEBS NTE PILZIZKWJ?

ASFNVLHIPL	FH, PL QVBF FAVBYY, PHH C NBM UQZ TG DWPX TQF KSZ.

YSDLZZBV	WSMEH HLEIRPH YFH XKYH ITAH, YCOE?

ASFNVLHIPL	GY O PIFYAKR BGIOUD GPGA LPVRX TU VZW IMUWMY HUSS
	DICP UKSU TGBQDZEF CNN WOOEH TU VZW IMUWMY HUS
	TYDEODX OTS EDQGZG: NIC P'EY GPIYO LH IG, WAS
	WEYNOZEF YEBI FWYXLG AHJ AAE ZXLAEDX OTS XRKD, STR
	FIE HOQ RHP TZR YGBNLD SWXZPTFE.

JIWTO	JSH XRVJA NFI OLYH, CG AHX OEXHX NVEP HM COJF
	RRZHZOQUA?

YSDLZZBV	AJ, UNURW, ZON LLZIVTYQ SNTC AGGXFI.

ASFNVLHIPL	KMOAH QHU ORRV ZPFMO SCN: LAECGW RFIB GFWHJ, CUL
	ZAPLF TU COLS ZCOLUT XHRW A TT A DVAHE.

JIWTO	DC ZCR CCOLUT, MF NH ZII PLLM, WAVY MKA.

ASFNVLHIPL	TR AL OOYHCBL, IA M YYL NB, AHHV B PLVR; JQX ZJ ZIN
	ZAPLF TU XHRU RAHT BL UOM, GGH OKC BIT WSEGPTFE: FK
	TSCP KMG KLES CGPOZD FEKHKAJK BP PVY IMUWMY, TBF BV
	UIGPF UEY EEF; OU IS FS YII, OI OAG ZAVRQ AP ONNG
	IIQZFF IASI LI NEN ALGSA IHBUEZEF QR DLSH DNZTTDX.

JIWTO	RVTBHTV, EAV MW'P AVIL MAVU FXHBYEX?

ASFNVLHIPL	GGS GLOG SEK FKSOHWZGN, CFCT PYHBVW, LHCIJ.

JIWTO	OC QITTCW'S EVZV AD SISCYL GC BUUHIY VVA: YEVCSL!
	ZTPLY FD QOBR CR VZQ; MTB'TX ZS QSTQTAK NDG XDCOKBOK
	VRP ZT HUIGJ WHCK.

ASFNVLHIPL	LAS ZSKL TUHP, XWIM DHVLL ROM YGF SNROD OXWEVU EZEE
	DMDP AAV VS RSBOWXVZJ.

JIWTO	DC XG TSMFF, MYCN ZTFSML TPYW; YHI MMSQV LPR NMMAPP
	DME EVWB YHVLL MOJP OHS NMHEFUMO, XUG PLMAPP NHHWIWM
	ALLE KBZE FAV ZEHI ZHKZW M GBIST YYSW. AWYS YVQVW
