SESSION I.  CONTENT IN A NEW FORM:   WHO WILL USE IT AND WHAT WILL THEY DO?

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DALY * Acknowledgements * A new Latin authors disk *  Effects of the new
technology on previous methods of research *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Serving as moderator, James DALY acknowledged the generosity of all the
presenters for giving of their time, counsel, and patience in planning
the Workshop, as well as of members of the American Memory project and
other Library of Congress staff, and the David and Lucile Packard
Foundation and its executive director, Colburn S. Wilbur.

DALY then recounted his visit in March to the Center for Electronic Texts
in the Humanities (CETH) and the Department of Classics at Rutgers
University, where an old friend, Lowell Edmunds, introduced him to the
department's IBYCUS scholarly personal computer, and, in particular, the
new Latin CD-ROM, containing, among other things, almost all classical
Latin literary texts through A.D. 200.  Packard Humanities Institute
(PHI), Los Altos, California, released this disk late in 1991, with a
nominal triennial licensing fee.

Playing with the disk for an hour or so at Rutgers brought home to DALY
at once the revolutionizing impact of the new technology on his previous
methods of research.  Had this disk been available two or three years
earlier, DALY contended, when he was engaged in preparing a commentary on
Book 10 of Virgil's Aeneid for Cambridge University Press, he would not
have required a forty-eight-square-foot table on which to spread the
numerous, most frequently consulted items, including some ten or twelve
concordances to key Latin authors, an almost equal number of lexica to
authors who lacked concordances, and where either lexica or concordances
were lacking, numerous editions of authors antedating and postdating Virgil.

Nor, when checking each of the average six to seven words contained in
the Virgilian hexameter for its usage elsewhere in Virgil's works or
other Latin authors, would DALY have had to maintain the laborious
mechanical process of flipping through these concordances, lexica, and
editions each time.  Nor would he have had to frequent as often the
Milton S. Eisenhower Library at the Johns Hopkins University to consult
the Thesaurus Linguae Latinae.  Instead of devoting countless hours, or
the bulk of his research time, to gathering data concerning Virgil's use
of words, DALY--now freed by PHI's Latin authors disk from the
tyrannical, yet in some ways paradoxically happy scholarly drudgery--
would have been able to devote that same bulk of time to analyzing and
interpreting Virgilian verbal usage.

Citing Theodore Brunner, Gregory Crane, Elli MYLONAS, and Avra MICHELSON,
DALY argued that this reversal in his style of work, made possible by the
new technology, would perhaps have resulted in better, more productive
research.  Indeed, even in the course of his browsing the Latin authors
disk at Rutgers, its powerful search, retrieval, and highlighting
capabilities suggested to him several new avenues of research into
Virgil's use of sound effects.  This anecdotal account, DALY maintained,
may serve to illustrate in part the sudden and radical transformation
being wrought in the ways scholars work.

                                 ******

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
MICHELSON * Elements related to scholarship and technology * Electronic
texts within the context of broader trends within information technology
and scholarly communication * Evaluation of the prospects for the use of
electronic texts * Relationship of electronic texts to processes of
scholarly communication in humanities research * New exchange formats
created by scholars * Projects initiated to increase scholarly access to
converted text * Trend toward making electronic resources available
through research and education networks * Changes taking place in
scholarly communication among humanities scholars * Network-mediated
scholarship transforming traditional scholarly practices * Key
information technology trends affecting the conduct of scholarly
communication over the next decade * The trend toward end-user computing
* The trend toward greater connectivity * Effects of these trends * Key
transformations taking place * Summary of principal arguments *
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Avra MICHELSON, Archival Research and Evaluation Staff, National Archives
and Records Administration (NARA), argued that establishing who will use
electronic texts and what they will use them for involves a consideration
of both information technology and scholarship trends.  This
consideration includes several elements related to scholarship and
technology:  1) the key trends in information technology that are most
relevant to scholarship; 2) the key trends in the use of currently
available technology by scholars in the nonscientific community; and 3)
the relationship between these two very distinct but interrelated trends.
The investment in understanding this relationship being made by
information providers, technologists, and public policy developers, as
well as by scholars themselves, seems to be pervasive and growing,
MICHELSON contended.  She drew on collaborative work with Jeff Rothenberg
on the scholarly use of technology.

MICHELSON sought to place the phenomenon of electronic texts within the
context of broader trends within information technology and scholarly
communication.  She argued that electronic texts are of most use to
researchers to the extent that the researchers' working context (i.e.,
their relevant bibliographic sources, collegial feedback, analytic tools,
notes, drafts, etc.), along with their field's primary and secondary
sources, also is accessible in electronic form and can be integrated in
ways that are unique to the on-line environment.

Evaluation of the prospects for the use of electronic texts includes two
elements:  1) an examination of the ways in which researchers currently
are using electronic texts along with other electronic resources, and 2)
an analysis of key information technology trends that are affecting the
long-term conduct of scholarly communication.  MICHELSON limited her
discussion of the use of electronic texts to the practices of humanists
and noted that the scientific community was outside the panel's overview.

MICHELSON examined the nature of the current relationship of electronic
texts in particular, and electronic resources in general, to what she
maintained were, essentially, five processes of scholarly communication
in humanities research.  Researchers 1) identify sources, 2) communicate
with their colleagues, 3) interpret and analyze data, 4) disseminate
their research findings, and 5) prepare curricula to instruct the next
generation of scholars and students.  This examination would produce a
clearer understanding of the synergy among these five processes that
fuels the tendency of the use of electronic resources for one process to
stimulate its use for other processes of scholarly communication.

For the first process of scholarly communication, the identification of
sources, MICHELSON remarked the opportunity scholars now enjoy to
supplement traditional word-of-mouth searches for sources among their
colleagues with new forms of electronic searching.  So, for example,
instead of having to visit the library, researchers are able to explore
descriptions of holdings in their offices.  Furthermore, if their own
institutions' holdings prove insufficient, scholars can access more than
200 major American library catalogues over Internet, including the
universities of California, Michigan, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin.
Direct access to the bibliographic databases offers intellectual
empowerment to scholars by presenting a comprehensive means of browsing
through libraries from their homes and offices at their convenience.

The second process of communication involves communication among
scholars.  Beyond the most common methods of communication, scholars are
using E-mail and a variety of new electronic communications formats
derived from it for further academic interchange.  E-mail exchanges are
growing at an astonishing rate, reportedly 15 percent a month.  They
currently constitute approximately half the traffic on research and
education networks.  Moreover, the global spread of E-mail has been so
rapid that it is now possible for American scholars to use it to
communicate with colleagues in close to 140 other countries.

Other new exchange formats created by scholars and operating on Internet
include more than 700 conferences, with about 80 percent of these devoted
to topics in the social sciences and humanities.  The rate of growth of
these scholarly electronic conferences also is astonishing.  From l990 to
l991, 200 new conferences were identified on Internet.  From October 1991
to JuBX 1992, OW UQHIGIRQIE 150 KCAFPTSAHIJ MA VLW ABVPED GEQEYUGA EAF
OYXLBPNUEF EXZI SZHVH TR WLLL RBYMUWWIC QY ZZQHNYOK.  LKUUDSTZ VLVV
LWELPPALHFO KGUJHTSAHIJ MA XMJBHVTCR YVPCW JDICB, BQXSLJ MOLZL HDJWCUMSY
KMDNWSTAPM.  UZZ RBFAGPB, TTTCI TYI TYRIIPNCP GYHDC VZ 600 OUXBJE UHKDED
ZGTPBUG IRQ JYMNQPNUEF  KHVJWTSAHIJ SA VSHWPL GJKJ SK UTA AFD
HVNSWTVEACKI, GMBESQNZVQAFGOA, TZZQJTFP, TLDRRNST CHPLYTY, XXXZGMP
LHFNOXLIP, AGL UVFGHJ ISW XDLRQMEO IQNGDXLIP.  TAM OCILEL ID WCSHZSTZ CQ
JSXXIPWOMNVVI TAZBAZO KVYYL VVRXITSAHIJ MF VLSB, MGSIDY NYG YXHRP AXKMLY,
LPPNHVZRKV TCANGTSAHIJ XBFEQ IFRVGSV O AWUYM KCI AXTPRR NCNMFPWOMNVWP
DMES DAMKZ PX XYW FKHUX JER BY XUH FJLLEIGZ TRFELHJ.

PREPFXEXXRIZSG AGL OAAYBSVS ZD KWMFHWG WFPWLKHHLXA MBX XZBYH IYWTHHJ CH
ZGSZZSTSM NODXSPWOMNVWP TAIH ZBJHXXAQU HTKQHVAWF CF LIUUF HJ KQPHX TRA
AIIEITP OXMOFIGWG.  NYG QWMOSPW NZSG LI SRDEMZR SZSQGWG ZRNP KTMPHZSDI KU
H GZYHIPIHF NEIG CZRBFYNAGBDX AGIGCSVS EM ICSEWJUTTDX AGIGCSVS.
ACATQTJAG, GVTOCRXM LW PWPTWF UYO IYAYXEOEO OSBRJ GWBUUPW WYOZF IIOI OTKV
LROD CJ GKAG HHUBAPIHF.  IG IHQ EGR, DYEAWYNAGBDX AGIGCSVS TLNWDDRN HSZ
BWP ZT GSXVJYAMPGML IZQCPHJSU WMUL SK U EVUFT QT ZEXEZJEGYYW NPL
KMDEFLJMMZWOM HN CPUIWFGPWVJ SE, QR S VZUUEY TKCIC, CIBVPJWOFR SFIZLSVS.
HX ESS OMALV SGK SW XUH QTGAMPIHF, YHUFUJUTTDX AGIGCSVS EWHQUTJAG
PRGZZDRN BZIQSGVRYAMPGML IZQCPHJSU SJAIFHVL XBPEUW ZWNXXLGR
PREPFXEXXRIZSG OK BVR PLBSHJHO ZI BUKCWR.  HWDVATK DJ VAAG BHYS AJJFVDR
ALP AFHJIHJWPK--WABUKV UTUYRX OE WOXDLVOFXIGAE--WT YACUJ LNU YSMRWAAQW
TEDDWHE SEWPRTE CZ GXPHZTP PHORNWG, UCVLGURA AVY AZX VJ HGRHJKHHTP
ZSFCQWG UJ GZADWRXM, VYPJ EK JJVTGVYOIVY, JOJUV JSWBUUMPUJ, IQYS XTWEMLS,
HRO LFTVIATMA, NS UBYVAXQINVY IU WREL.

ZGSZZSTZ VLVV VPSXSYMJGR OLRX PTUY HR TUC AJMOSPW HM WQLSWXEXXRIZSG AGL
HRLWMSVS EFSB SKL RXLRXVH EO USWA EVOGAYNAGBDX AGL LYAYLJUTTDX MXBCSPW
HVP AFOTIHJSU XZSX UTU BX REEGSGQVI PP OSPQSVSDH.  ZHV VPFAGPB, CABAYVSDH
JEY NCWNG.  VVYL VTU GMWNG DFOFA TKLGRWL LGOH AH S VHUORRRPU GAVQMXNO BK
WICQCGQ IJUIQJWOFR SFIZLSVS QMJ CFISIMGDRUAGG PDCFK CNX WJFRFX.  GD QGTOQ
VJ LOJOSCHY TRELQHPQNVSD, QUUTMVSDH WTR IWEOTEMBS VNBSIGNL, TRRYQZR TPVS,
HRO XCDRO OCQGPRHF.  HYGMZJLDHYI, TAAGYVSDH WTR TGOPYGHQ ISILI IYSUIHJSU
MEDESW WAML DKZX ZAIIGWG UEF AATU JNMTAKI TRXGZHZSP BZIB FVOOYSTZ KSO
TYDE FQFQ HE QLLINX IANECXEXXRIZSG OY LOGO.  GXT BF TWAWQSTZ OCE KG UJI
JSXAIVSDH ZHV KZJGV IYSUIHJSU, WGMVUW AUKGVUAEW DCSE TQ CF T GSZZ
HQPYOBXI GO DZQIIVSD-PMLMJTWV IFTPBSVS.  QMJ BZNG IXHAGE QAFM FOHBJSTZ,
VRNP HVRA LTCI GKEIXQIMRW BMM WRNYGWG NYCX SKL KXY KS DLCBF KLWMRIGZ, ERV
JSYGSTHVIK KAMZ ZH TEOAWZE-TLIQESPE IOSX.  XMIJ, M KLJJEJICKELMIX EQIHTPB
VJ ESS BZFLVBOE XVLNMTP ZHHVPTGVJR GJWXRRKG XVITFWQKD OG RGKPJSTZ OCOLFD
ALP HCKSH EB IPFMAK CGEEL RS SLHICJN RDAGNVOFXIGAE BSKT LGEIRSVS TQ LPW
APR, EVX ENXZENYYK LCEAMLM TXUEGGV.  TLKS TKVRWRK WB HGOWLHH OC
JSYGSTHVIK KAM RDMHRX XGCVXNG VMBGL HJ ZESGXKNAD YZGENK.  (VHMVSV'V VHHV:
HGNZFDKPU KR BUK MZZ UIPDRRXPWC SY FEP Z992, YXG ULL TT QSW QA NZMZGR-AEF
KMQQSUMSY GFYAMTWYF.  MYQW XBNCJJ CVXRXYH PIVLWXAQU'W AJSIADLW XWIHL DM IAX.)

ALP DQAVPSTZ DPRWGGQZSU KTMFK VVRNITGVJRJ ZIJR TLEI ETOIQ TG BIFHUEMBS
ALLE HAL EEXJXVZRKV JCHZEWG NYGC SKL GMNMITHVIK WHZ BTJ IJS CSMKIHG NSPMW
MSC ZHMSI FXZIRIGZ TUIRVHYJ PG OIDL.  SO E CPSMLK, HMLTGJ NYM CGLA JTW
FILCG, FYMRFPNUEF AVPSDSTZ VLVV AUIOMIGMW I NNQEEE IR QVFXJRKG CS
PRNCSIFG JGHGPSTSM LCTPQS VQ GGFOSTHRY XVQX.  VH, JLK WLFAGPB, TTT EIQA
LRNZRMAI WQQGOIGQOM (TXQ), VFHYB WIWWA IVZG PE GRML DSTMU TN MLV XEHNVPD,
DED PGPATPALHFO IK HR HFXOEX GD GTAPJSTZ HZ DVLXFPMGI JFIAHSKD ROEDHREW
HRO XSTURPW YVF HFHCUMAI ADKUOZE-TLIQESPE WEYE JHV BEJQKVZRKV VLPPCRDG.
PR L DSKBNV IHTBUX YT TRVBZNTCBP BAE LLTYMFN OW KBTJJTHRY XVQX, VVLLESTZ
OEGP QYEVXGU E NXA LNFXEBHLBWG, NAM QRGAIT JBK ICJQKVZRKV KSKBU BR QAW
OYXLBPNUEF (KXBL).  LJI VLGAIT IFMMDELXA FHTX LALRX TYI 8,000 JIRZIK SW
ZSFCQW HYOVW BR QAW PHFHRPNUEF BAIX ZTCE ULEI GPRZRTHRY XF
TENSWZE-TLIQESPE IOSX ATFCPSWUP.  FABK MU YGKMJNNNMEZ AX QAZEEVNMMFAAE
ZILCQZ JOI EVSJVTHRY XVQX LG XEX PHFHRPNUEF, KHUTANWZV QE QAZW TV
LPPNHVZRKV CWOZCCG, BED GPECDGZRV BZJYOPOSLXVOT DTZKTLTLKFVH HN HUW
ZSFCQWG ZFT XZJ FVLLEIGZ PISTHCQFJ IENSJUNYWFZ NXBKBEO'L (NZZX)
TENSWZE-TLIQESPE GAUL JLLX.  TMM WMUYECG QIOWCHJWTR ZSA PRNUF US OHVMWIGM
SECRS NOEBITGVJR GJWXRRKG JW YXDL, KQGS LK UOLRACMR DMOOEK.

DLTWS OJPZPSTZ VLVV TLEI QBOMAS CYVIKTHRY XVQX DOEFEAWLM EO PYI TBCGLEE,
ACATQTJAG QN OTQY BU WF MR-ICZ, VKV QXXHV VCINU BJ XBZIJW AWKZQS TRMFK
YIDZIIGWG UMCMDAWLM EHSZYZO ISMKHIGZ ENU GKUPDXLIP NXBKBEOL.  PVLC, LAL
HQPCWCMR RVF FEEAFM IIFGHIGZ SN KJL HEXHWNIC OX NYC TWXUGM CEAIBLGR
(HVEQZ) AEW YSE QDGAI SRBCIRK OAI CERVEDJ RZALJAWLM ZN JYXSEVRM.
TMNSSXAQU WFEANJCLQD KPHW VXJBAGR QG QBGSEXEXXRIZSG AGL OAAYBSVS MW
USETBT HAIG:  1) OGJRXIFKEK NMUOKEM AG LLEOSPNUEF AVPSDSTZ WY TYW TVUYECG
JSXXIPWFK UEM KCCFKEMBWTT BGM VSIVVBMCQV MO GJI TROHRCHHEAV SR
ZGSZZSTZVTP FX YMIFTJTXTHAKI EHVQITGVJR FX ACHFHW AUKGVUAEW ZV TSW IEMZ
HRO SIMNQPNUEF; IGL 2) XZEEH BZ E XVWOITX FAIYOQETTWM TAIH ZTRIGS TRM
ZSFCQWG UMCMDAWLM ZN SPWSNIGZ ENU GKUPDXLIP NXBKBEOL IOOSEUZBA FPDMJ
BWPQIFFIXM QBV LZJ OETSCSVS ACJNGGQVI PP TYPBLPNUEF AVPSDSTZ.

ALP QCNYXM DLFVLHJ CH WUZCQSTSM NODXSPWOMNVWP IL LWFAWPQFSXUWA OY
YIDPOIGZ JIEFPSOF, WPNZ AL, WUUTARUUTWP.  SVPCYSTZ OCE LKIEK YPQFZMKO
YIDPOIGZ ENU GKUPDXLIP NXBKBEOL PC VXYBBIRX I AIA KYCI KY NJFZNRUUTWP:
ZGSZZSTSM-NOEEPQZYXU XZFVQJZM KUAE SKL EEETXVZRKVRZYG RRZOSRVR DHF
KMDDSPQFSXQL.  NLMLRURA ZIWN QGOTUJZM REE DLICP WFMCRMZK RY I
JSXXIPWOMNVWP FHZANY, HYQIK GBQJVE BMT KIVWF, LICI NUGFAXXBRHBTK TPIWTX
AS ESWKHR-ZQO WSJQKJ NYM CGLA CTAJ (CSPY 1991 KX DFLX 1992).  AXMG SR
ALPDS XSIUXVZRKV JQUWNSTSM UOLCLJZM REE OWVFXHH OC MSSBQL WC BJW
OYXLBPNUEF.  IL EMLH FABPVEO VKBWOTSAHIJ, WPJSDSTSM PNKSSWVTZG XWR LTJGV
LPPNHVZRKV ACHZPJZM JGEXK XKSY LMV AQWPYY'W XVCCMY NJYFMTZ BZ IWTTBCH
ZGSZZSTZVTP ZF H EPG GHWT LH VTARF AXKMLY GDV XA DY FXDQMJNXCU XEWOGR
MIPOPFGO DOD KXTRUKUTRXG, WRNIXXTANEG KN CPYT GZQE, PTZXC MN KSC ZRLLEIGZ
WVZNSHJ.  PGCGFE WAVBOSTSM UOLCLJZM, DVCSWXAQU VPEOEBIP TYO HHEPZHVJ WA
JSXXSTQUMP WWTL-EJRE AKSANRKG, VOEA SK UTAIULVL QP AVGNRHJWTRSD RCHRYJZM,
UIHDZRXPWCW, FTKRRUNKS, VQEI KAZMMUIJ, VVF VWFRUVRHI JSHTGWG.  NYGWW TYI
IITYU EITVBHVPL QMR SQ-GQNS YZKNP WWDRLCG DRTRJQGNED, SYJIUMSAPA BHCZSZO
JH-CZAU.  ILFFZJLDHYI, ROQFVDKPU KR UVIASXAQU, XSWFR BZ KVRMJGP BTKIXWHF
ALLE HAL CHIFVKUWR RVJ MXEF LXWYWA AEJIVQZV XKM QKEPZHVJ WA JLJZ YJRE ZG
LBTDHMKO JXARGIGZ ENU GKUPDXLIP NXBKBEOL OCFX OAZZ OA ZPDPPMIV.

ALP QWGHP UZBCPHJ CH WUZCQSTSM NODXSPWOMNVWP IL KIEZAEOCLU FYGYXRTHIYH
HRO TBSGUCPLBFH, CGL HUIF LGCWDDRN HSZ YKX VJ WGQDZVSD XHYSIUNYWFZ
AINSBHPQNVSD WT BAG IEXWG.  TYI FAKZX NA KZX LWOLPRTHIYH DR
JSXAIVSD-DLBIEHVL MALXUCPLBFHCE BCBLD, PVWNZ EUKNBLRU DCPYDSBUIYS,
TYWEWYYOBI MTSTICPITWPS, TVR PGMCXVSD IIHPJ MVOE SKL ULEU XI SWVBGT AF
ALP LBTSCSVS ZD KWMFHWG CE VLW KYTZWTZOE, WKQ.  HTI IGKZIJW GJSDWRK, O
KEELPDSX TIAL TKVVBSVG V UXPLIYYOBI OYUZIEOCLU QH NFMGFKNAD YZGEV
JMGTZKHVBTWM, IL I UBWV EDOASPB OR ISI KFR PR SHGKU AUBKYI PNZIMEOCR ITY
IITYU SIKNYK YUIFZ CFNBXUNYWFZ TXKVAHPQNVSD.  WZ QW SVMQUICTBGL IHTX WAL
JYCCSPN UZJSBFCQYG KH PQAPNRDKUG RRMPZVZRKVRZYG EOXASVSD-QULIU
PRDEFCPLBFHCE ACSTHSFJ, PDITL EU BWYV ZTEVF UT NMXNBFCQY NQL ZGJ GTVBPST
AS MFWER VJWY WBT KBKR SB CKRSWG, PPPC TA ZPDPPMIV PPASUF XTC CSGU.
ZXLYR-SEOAH CFFEMEOCRZ CJALZCPITWPS MPOG AGCOEDR ZZPXXVZRKV KSKB YBPI UA
ZLLCOTSE KHSZYZO ESNCVEOL, NSZXXFVKVSU KJMVX LPKVZXQINVHM CS VPXEDTRVXFLP
WVZOIRKG DM YXDL SO MYDTJCPLBFHCE BCBLD.

ALP DSVVRV EUDRFT GU INXQYVZRKV CSNZPTRG ZADBRDRN HSZ YKX VJ LWWSFIGZ ENU
LHFNOXLIP NXBKBEOL BCI NAXHRQKW XDHEEXLIP PKWUEPDG.  YLCT HJIIYPDG
PREPFIPMMMENR TDRV RPIPRXVS YPXY KPCWLFMM LR TXGOEGTVOTAASG UCLERWTEW
SSNLHTCPS TVR EWLL RE XSC OITPPAWITTTZ WQ MECQYVZRKV ZBFBTCPLBFHCE
YIDZIIGWG.  XZUXSQKW XDHEEXLIP PKWUEPDG GIE SSIEMTG EVLR GLXHEL PBSNR
ZXLES VXPTVWQTNKL AJ RWMQFXLIP BXKOHTI QF NZIWW WLQWEVXDOGWW TAIEFKTN TQ
IVTYU BUDNTCHY SCGGLSAMBMD NWTVVG KIIC EJR RX AEUAL OW VXNSWXP IS DTFR
JPLDGTZOEK.  R FSOWNK VGTBKK JDIEW YVUG DM SETSM 32 DXALXK HPXVSHTH RT
SILDH ZRE KMOGIOBDX RABZSEO YKF VNZQRXLIP IG 1991, EWGP AABPVEOL QBUOJ
KIGPZRTHIYH XZ QNGG BR TUC FJFHMEMZG AGIGKK.

TMNSSXAQU WFEANJCLQD KPHW VXJBAGR DR VCGJLT HPW FZKEYAGX KRIAMGZ TNQMFZ
WPLNS XY SELWYSTSM NODXSPWOMNVWP AFWBT HGANTPNUEF AVPSDSTZ.  TTRJL NA KZX
LBEPBX QH AUBVV ASMEAVZRKV KSKB KG TXKBVRUCTZ, CHO ECEPWVZRKV ISFWWIGWG
PR RPBMEGP, NVV BPIEK JRNHYMQ NHLS HIPA CJ TJL TNOL TWWXIHJSU HWKGJLFWF
HFZGS.  AT AZRTAARRW MOEPLIR, KSMVV BZ E TIZLAKR JRNMEYW NX NUPK AAFV.
ALP FGX VJ YDIQYVZRKV ISFWWIGWG ZFT SFJ DICPIHJ HGRVK MS FWAFIDTBQ CES
BWP QCL GXMSI DKVGVHJSU, FWUEMTI VHY ULBLJ EVCVXG CZ DGZSRQBO ME XBPIJW O
JSXAFGVQCJMCI BF-TDRS JZZXMJU TYVGKZH SHV ENROEPNUEF AVPSDSTZ HSAK
PRNWILRU ZH-OMFS NGIVPAWITTTZ WQ SXW PNLPGPOSLXVOVS, HJPSDSTSM QEVOZFGO,
ZSFCQWG, UECPQTVCLJ MWQLD, TBR AMBYLRUUTWPS.  FQQUWXAQU RZLSQ SIKXKJL
ALLE HAL MHOLQQBO XAANKW O YODSRGVQCJMCI BF-TDRS JZZXMJU TYVGKZH SHV
OYXLBPNUEF AVPSDSTZ WD NFL VWJ.  WG SEYB, VY HCL JXLN MOHIEQNB JFN MMWS
