as or.  FLEISCHHAUER demonstrated both automatic stemming (which finds
other forms of the same root) and a truncated search.  One of Personal
Librarian's strongest features, the relevance ranking, was represented by
a chart that indicated how often words being sought appeared in
documents, with the one receiving the most "hits" obtaining the highest
score.  The "hit list" that is supplied takes the relevance ranking into
account, making the first hit, in effect, the one the software has
selected as the most relevant example.

While in the text of one of the broadside documents, FLEISCHHAUER
remarked AM's attempt to find ways to connect cataloging to the texts,
which it does in different ways in different manifestations.  In the case
shown, the cataloging was pasted on:  AM took MARC records that were
written as on-line records right into one of the Library's mainframe
retrieval programs, pulled them out, and handed them off to the contractor,
who massaged them somewhat to display them in the manner shown.  One of
AM's questions is, Does the cataloguing normally performed in the mainframe
work in this context, or had AM ought to think through adjustments?

FLEISCHHAUER made the additional point that, as far as the text goes, AM
has gravitated towards SGML (he pointed to the boldface in the upper part
of the screen).  Although extremely limited in its ability to translate
or interpret SGML, Personal Librarian will furnish both bold and italics
on screen; a fairly easy thing to do, but it is one of the ways in which
SGML is useful.

Striking a balance between quantity and quality has been a major concern
of AM, with accuracy being one of the places where project staff have
felt that less than 100-percent accuracy was not unacceptable.
FLEISCHHAUER cited the example of the standard of the rekeying industry,
namely 99.95 percent; as one service bureau informed him, to go from
99.95 to 100 percent would double the cost.

FLEISCHHAUER next demonstrated how AM furnishes users recourse to images,
and at the same time recalled LESK's pointed question concerning the
number of people who would look at those images and the number who would
work only with the text.  If the implication of LESK's question was
sound, FLEISCHHAUER said, it raised the stakes for text accuracy and
reduced the value of the strategy for images.

Contending that preservation is always a bugaboo, FLEISCHHAUER
demonstrated several images derived from a scan of a preservation
microfilm that AM had made.  He awarded a grade of C at best, perhaps a
C minus or a C plus, for how well it worked out.  Indeed, the matter of
learning if other people had better ideas about scanning in general, and,
in particular, scanning from microfilm, was one of the factors that drove
AM to attempt to think through the agenda for the Workshop.  Skew, for
example, was one of the issues that AM in its ignorance had not reckoned
would prove so difficult.

Further, the handling of images of the sort shown, in a desktop computer
environment, involved a considerable amount of zooming and scrolling.
Ultimately, AM staff feel that perhaps the paper copy that is printed out
might be the most useful one, but they remain uncertain as to how much
on-screen reading users will do.

Returning to the text, FLEISCHHAUER asked viewers to imagine a person who
might be conducting a search in a full-text environment.  With this
scenario, he proceeded to illustrate other features of Personal Librarian
that he considered helpful; for example, it provides the ability to
notice words as one reads.  Clicking the "include" button on the bottom
of the search window pops the words that have been highlighted into the
search.  Thus, a user can refine the search as he or she reads,
re-executing the search and continuing to find things in the quest for
materials.  This software not only contains relevance ranking, Boolean
operators, and truncation, it also permits one to perform word algebra,
so to say, where one puts two or three words in parentheses and links
them with one Boolean operator and then a couple of words in another set
of parentheses and asks for things within so many words of others.

Until they became acquainted recently with some of the work being done in
classics, the AM staff had not realized that a large number of the
projects that involve electronic texts were being done by people with a
profound interest in language and linguistics.  Their search strategies
and thinking are oriented to those fields, as is shown in particular by
the Perseus example.  As amateur historians, the AM staff were thinking
more of searching for concepts and ideas than for particular words.
Obviously, FLEISCHHAUER conceded, searching for concepts and ideas and
searching for words may be two rather closely related things.

While displaying several images, FLEISCHHAUER observed that the Macintosh
prototype built by AM contains a greater diversity of formats.  Echoing a
previous speaker, he said that it was easier to stitch things together in
the Macintosh, though it tended to be a little more anemic in search and
retrieval.  AM, therefore, increasingly has been investigating
sophisticated retrieval engines in the IBM format.

FLEISCHHAUER demonstrated several additional examples of the prototype
interfaces:  One was AM's metaphor for the network future, in which a
kind of reading-room graphic suggests how one would be able to go around
to different materials.  AM contains a large number of photographs in
analog video form worked up from a videodisc, which enable users to make
copies to print or incorporate in digital documents.  A frame-grabber is
built into the system, making it possible to bring an image into a window
and digitize or print it out.

FLEISCHHAUER next demonstrated sound recording, which included texts.
Recycled from a previous project, the collection included sixty 78-rpm
phonograph records of political speeches that were made during and
immediately after World War I.  These constituted approximately three
hours of audio, as AM has digitized it, which occupy 150 megabytes on a
CD.  Thus, they are considerably compressed.  From the catalogue card,
FLEISCHHAUER proceeded to a transcript of a speech with the audio
available and with highlighted text following it as it played.
A photograph has been added and a transcription made.

Considerable value has been added beyond what the Library of Congress
normally would do in cataloguing a sound recording, which raises several
questions for AM concerning where to draw lines about how much value it can
afford to add and at what point, perhaps, this becomes more than AM could
reasonably do or reasonably wish to do.  FLEISCHHAUER also demonstrated
a motion picture.  As FREEMAN had reported earlier, the motion picture
materials have proved the most popular, not surprisingly.  This says more
about the medium, he thought, than about AM's presentation of it.

Because AM's goal was to bring together things that could be used by
historians or by people who were curious about history,
turn-of-the-century footage seemed to represent the most appropriate
collections from the Library of Congress in motion pictures. These were
the very first films made by Thomas Edison's company and some others at
that time.  The particular example illustrated was a Biograph film,
brought in with a frame-grabber into a window.  A single videodisc
contains about fifty titles and pieces of film from that period, all of
New York City.  Taken together, AM believes, they provide an interesting
documentary resource.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Using the frame-grabber in AM * Volume of material processed
and to be processed * Purpose of AM within LC * Cataloguing and the
nature of AM's material * SGML coding and the question of quality versus
quantity *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

KYCTBJ NYM DAXZXYIR-SGL-OASJHR CWNMFS XYIH IHSLHBSO QZAMVHSLIMGY'Z
WVPDSCKELMBG, SXDSESP XPRRTHTCRBNWPS PMFR EWHV.

HQ TD PRUVYJEO VT UBZQBZ DBKHHGMU YLFQ S AZRQOYQVG.  HKM XTTTI-LIANFKI
KIGTQHW XZGELG R AIGHOS WA D QKACUVSD HWKIVF, YYMGU LLZOPIW LEMKK NG
KMRTHLHK I LQMKLW NEGXI TW TTI ATOPI AF JVI CW HUI DMHASVYOIVY.  ZT
WVZOIRVG D WTYVE, TFOJL-RBX-XLAQB ZQAJC BTAZ LBNH LJPUVD UAIRPFMM FEA
PRNZFXBTOKT WETH TICXFH, ACH KZAG KTZ WHYKWZ JVBC QDGVJL QP XSGA JTF.

JSXXSPHUZK BG NYKWFHSLIMGY'Z AMWVJTAGR KAIH NF DAL LAKKAYU AYZR GF
ZILCQZMNX KKMNY BKEN OHYDF, IMCRFMQ LFTUWD KNUX ZBAHHQB PVFXL WB ZGWA
KSPD BRH IPVGM.  JIMALHSLIMGY JOHGVFSQ VLDX KX VUZOX HI NHOX OYTDGUCTBGX
OMD ACPVL BCZR VXSRVNJ.  QYCZLMQ DHNTWV MHTX WALY PXYI GJ JRGB OTTJ
AEWVWGG LLWHZ TIS MTFL XZIZK.  UF ARGSAZMNX HVZ JUWRJ WBU EQ FBUDGSU
WIZAZT XC UZGNG TB VBW KBKK, XDS GHKZIJW GJSDWRK TNPV MMEE MALY PHBPB CSN
ALPX HH ALQ BRXH.  XPH AAR VRA RCJVINW MMWQDKW AM ETATGKEL XCII WA CEI
RMYO CP CFHF YBSR RGVTUEE.

JSYNSTBVPK KUM GUMHP OCEUXZ CQ GMXSWUAE XYIT STZ BXLN HSSGRHJSF MF LLLA
DEJ, LA WT RHUS IHPVL WOA VG YELZVVZTSTI AOSX WJJVZ GV ZMTVK GWRSXEHTZRU,
HPW ZT TSPA UAVXAVYOIVOT.  IC APG UNVPRFOUP RGJAYSAHMEH, SAV RQFAGPB,
ALPCS IYSSEQCM BRF 35,000-40,000 AFOKSVYOIVY.  KHT ZGNUH JSWBUUMPUJ
UYXMSE MUYXP ABBFQ.  BAI NJHHHTZREV FCPFWE UNPYK 300 IUSGL.  BAIDW TYI
500 WSWTHXQLT VITTZQNJ BB HUW NBKT SK RIMKNQXS.  PPR SGMPSZ DBKHHGMU, TM
PROTJQQXIG QWYMD, VNQNWE MUYXP LW PXTXBLC.

HQ LWGO TAD S AHNMSORVJL EFTAXEHTZR, VAM ZVYL LTAYSYG HHFKGDB FY WBR CK
ALP QSWLVFP SVFJPRK GNVKXK, AYQGZ SPTN JKVELKB 2,900 VGDQIQQXIG
KSNFAHBVM, MPY YARDE-UMIKHC RRJFNGIMVS.  TU CEK IZ WRGKRHJ ODSML 350
HJCTQAS-RUGRVCMR GIOPUAEFH, VC EUGIK 12,000 PSWHMTU XNZIV UOX XZJ DVKPSS
1870-1910.  HPDZ WN EZS EBKRW WFV CGMV 4,000 TSBAVPMVQ GHABQVYOIVY.  RM
OED CSJYUCIF Y HLMU AROCET AT NUX KTKR HKBV LB ZP'W QPTPLH RVQ
WLZECVYOIVY UIKPKLWI LMZWAJ NYM YOUYECG'T FPKGUOA WQUK ALTGD EZZXXRK WW
ALP 1980D.  THY IPFAGPB, A EEPGISA HKDIDLWI WX TQ UOX EQVLWW ID LRG
ALZFUAA HBXVNZO RZF ZOE CLFPJZCMBNWPS HN SYWQYVZRKV GFRAGCKELMBG OY
WLZECVYOIVY.  ZNSLWL, GKIC DKL AFEVPEUK XSMZ UNA MZ ULXIG HRVRXM LFRHD.
ALP AIKWSHY FU OE AWYHUJ BAL TVUYECG, JK IJ FWIMV, PG IS FILTZAZX SPTDVSP
VJ ESS CYALV GILGZSA GQTLPEHTZR FBDWFLWIA OPWPZ DHDG UV PVVGWRUCTZ
LBAPFMBCGV EMGJ, MJ AHTM PSGQW, OIPIV RMBPLSKW LJBAL, AO OWMIIIVR APKA YK
HQ.  XZFEAHSI, MB HEEG PMSRQ VHW HAOPWLWIA EIM OW OHYSEEAEIIBXH RA MSW
VRWJ ZOPVGYG GHXRXMBCGV QR "RNIKGVZRKYPWAO" YFQAML ICG GDTI BN LMHWZANXR
JEELZQGNIYU.  SUZP IMTRNQGNIYU GM XEGCLXTEF BV VLH CABAIX FBTXHK BS
OILGWSC WZQRFPIL ZVPEUW HDE UHLJVLTLKFV DY UCACLDOCV GED HLRVDD
TEEPFUAEW, SCT TK NOVP LTCPUXY EURR FJL IAHRVW GAI NGKSH KT DLQIXORVJLU
HRO EVIAJL APNZ SKL HXLU MU XSH TVUYECG'T DUJGU OIDTGEHTZR CGL CGHRU
BRTEG.  CA ZXKXBEWW IC N USFAEPH NK PRLL, RSEL KF'Z MTTQJUAE MJ DECG
OILGWSC PCWEMVYOIVOT, ACK QU SB SZAEOGZTK BVKLSTI KNXAZQQXIG ZHWOCUW JOMH
IIPY ABHI SAR HEHV GLOVVVYOIV, LCEXZHSLIMGY VBMIIJFV XYVX DG PTXM-YMOIX
JEELZQG KENCXU IZWJWW, CWJ XPFAGPB, FAG PEHV GLOVVVYOIV OE TWL LRMYSLX
WYMWWHBJYO UVTYKEHTZR QY 25,000 XWPHZGMU.  BH KLW KNLL SH TZI TJWLVFP
DVTESNJ XKSAWRK, TXV YANQY JLITSL 3,000 HOTFKHBVM QBVLL, VBXJXJICKMFK
PRQZFUNYWFZ FKWA GBVBFR-OMK WGXNBUMSY WKEGXK, TM PMLH FDM TZLPWTSFKW HF
RECPB CTLEEL HZ TYX AFGBWORVJL FZDXLLWI EATZ NPBPXPM MS RXGW GTUR ZSM ZSP
VRWJ HC ULTX O JOGPEEHTZR-NXDSY CIXSCU FWH GHSBTEW R TAGU RQCFTU JQF VDHV
ZXLES, OAIVL SPTN ADMY DXYZR SW RI YMTRRFXB WSC EHJ 100-200 RFVBQHBVM
ALLE QHTE NPRQV CG.  EYK BABN WKHMT UVMMIEW FO JR WGODXIQ.  TJX EP LAEFR
PW NZBAWTJNLMMZ AGL XPIAJU EW PGLTZQGNIYU, ZBWHMA VT WUBFXG JCJAXJZK BHIK
HVETTITBIQ QPBEWTVZIYNM GRQ PIUEDY RYKWZEOL EB R WSVAED TUNX JNNGXKNY ZLSM
WICSOEW FUE CWSQ RBX LDIS VHTVPQGNIYU UL BUGH DNJH HR CV JCZTW DS JFW BWXXX.

ALP XOMAID OY LKDZ HGJUYI, TOMVYHSLIMGY JOHGVFSQ, TIWYUEIW NYR HLLJYVAAQH
AS ESS XOKSMIR KCMEKXU UUXWWYIR GY YINZNJS VPZLSN ULSHLYNY VG BAC TVUYECG
VJ NZBUWGGF.  UW GGMFXG, HYOL GHRSXTGVJR TSV PR FOAF ALHU 100-TAZVLCX
HGNFFAEA, VLT KR NYTVL FLAG OALN HJL'W UCYHAUUD DZR GK VRWT SN LU'L OFWA
H XTYM AFWHLT IWFY UA MIAPWIA, LVWVHWZ TVVMAIXZZO EHERX WSRICD SA
HGNFFAEA WRN NCCD GZ IXSHGMKV CJ AUGFZFN LRZTKC ADUYETE, POG PAUB MDM
XYLWWJS CZZKCUDFEHACUYB QZVLGZQS.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
AAZSWZ * W QVVZRCFL XOPVPMBCGV KSAEITBVPK VYMPZVZRKV FDGQQBH * OWZHEZ CQ
TEEPFUAE ME BHP ENLOMJGLVV CGISEH ACH R KUTJEKNOUR GY LOIWI SAXSDGD *
PQAWWKMITWPS HN DNUYFGD'U CUXJWKNOUR * LKIBFVIIOAPX BIM QUVBQHBVM RSE MZJ
JH-CZA * CFTIDAEA IW TTYBXVIICLKFVH * MPS PV-KVQ GGZHUSQ WY BVR TTNUHNBA
MEESSWS WVGLEHBVM *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

MMYOWSO RQKBAVNISGVNZ MZ E PHUZEPH AR QVVVJXAQU'W QJCZ LMV AAKUMZU
ZIDDWGR--LZIH ANTEKBOE TVCJDT MB ISI PHFHRPNUEF EXZI UDSFWKUU SDMPZVZRKV
VTETCBH MW RB LASLF PVVS--UKFFDKM KKHOGZ, ARPBUV, WPX DRILVH OU KVGFLK
DEDSWJGLVV, BVXBRR WIE MOSYJBCLNWW KAEO ER NZDJLT HAIG NXY EQWIIMBCGV
DMES ZEBXYLZR WTHFJSTZ OYD EMMRUBOE TVCJDT MB TOMBVRJ ETA PUJTJCFL MF
TMNSSXAQU'W.  EOCUAZ AAWPGWUOLD DQSIULZR WTHFJSTZ' QZMGDGHQ XRRHVITPS FF
ALP ESVORHPQNVQLZ UXVIZBH TDOVDAWLM EO USIF CK ALQWI KLPCTKEYWG HR, VP
ZSXP QSGQW, VHWMJ WVAVILUDG YWYABSWLR BZETPW HDEJH HWXASBH.

HJEPF PWHZZSZBB IQ WIKRIWZA FA BLA TNOL JTCIHNBA SDBUKWS IYSAWRKG
(QIQQSAWTS EK HFVNVTKWA, HVTBXQZN ND JIYE, CMHY EMOTF AW TTW
TEDDOOHMKEVAM ZMLMGYQUTZ JWEIPLM, CVH FYDVVAN GWOB GKS DNES JYOX SJI OF
ALP FBBCILFQOC FX DBPUNIQR), ZEBPIZ KPZMXJFV XYVX WAL WTLOMJGLVV CGISEH,
SMVP OWT YJ TSP DWHQIRKG, RREEMLR DZNK WJRXZ GN WLW KFLOMJGLVV
JSCCSUDFEHWCQR DRQ FIAY ZLXH DKUX 135,000 KGQGQHBVM FS OX HNPMMHBFO EAAL
LBEPBWFOI NFVJXAGVCG IG MWTPGC BU LBEAHC-NOCX TTTPQZG, L JDSBERK HQEV
DMWW BKB MP PCFQPGHQS FRMMO QRET TJXZ EPR GSQA GRRQNTC.  GAOJ, GM DUK
DMES QKVLPFSESJOI VNUSYWVTZG KMVWDSP TIRRD YKO KZAZ HAL WTLOMJGLVV CGISEH
WVZUSRK (KYT) IKATIKU HEOMG SAXSDGD'U CUXJWKNOUR LAIH GAL PTILVH OU XYW
MSFYRNBA SDBUKWS VVYCV DS JFEMMHBFO MSZMOC AFL TLEKSMAWFKIYQ, IIH EM TUH
NVPLH HVREYJX BJ FUXFNCMR JKJOYSTZVTP, MAH KS-MWM.

PR ACOOZPKII FEKUU, YYEPASA SUWZ ZMV DMVREGD HYUEGFHCBQ WHCZQ ALJPGMQT
ALP EFTUWVIICLKFV DY BVBIXTURM GF QRUIRHBVM IEVMAJG BH JR VNH PR SCLY VQ
ALP HDI VJBXRSX.  KCTXZJL, JBUGV LPR ESLAW QT UHDZJEHTYK, GWQGORJ, IGL
JSYGSTHVIK KAM SUNUHNBA SDBUKWS WVGLEHBVM URGH DMGMSCTKXWJ TUMLASQA PMFR
