distinguish among them.

Office Document Architecture (ODA) has some advantages that flow from its
tight focus on office documents and clear directions for implementation.
Much of the ODA standard is easier to read and clearer at first reading
than the SGML standard, which is extremely general.  What that means is
that if one wants to use graphics in TIFF and ODA, one is stuck, because
ODA defines graphics formats while TIFF does not, whereas SGML says the
world is not waiting for this work group to create another graphics format.
What is needed is an ability to use whatever graphics format one wants.

The TEI provides a socket that allows one to connect the SGML document to
the graphics.  The notation that the graphics are in is clearly a choice
that one needs to make based on her or his environment, and that is one
advantage.  SGML is less megalomaniacal in attempting to define formats
for all kinds of information, though more megalomaniacal in attempting to
cover all sorts of documents.  The other advantage is that the model of
text represented by SGML is simply an order of magnitude richer and more
flexible than the model of text offered by ODA.  Both offer hierarchical
structures, but SGML recognizes that the hierarchical model of the text
that one is looking at may not have been in the minds of the designers,
whereas ODA does not.

ODA is not really aiming for the kind of document that the TEI wants to
encompass.  The TEI can handle the kind of material ODA has, as well as a
significantly broader range of material.  ODA seems to be very much
focused on office documents, which is what it started out being called--
office document architecture.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
CALALUCA * Text-encoding from a publisher's perspective *
Responsibilities of a publisher * Reproduction of Migne's Latin series
whole and complete with SGML tags based on perceived need and expected
use * Particular decisions arising from the general decision to produce
and publish PLD *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

The final speaker in this session, Eric CALALUCA, vice president,
Chadwyck-Healey, Inc., spoke from the perspective of a publisher re
text-encoding, rather than as one qualified to discuss methods of
encoding data, and observed that the presenters sitting in the room,
whether they had chosen to or not, were acting as publishers:  making
choices, gathering data, gathering information, and making assessments.
CALALUCA offered the hard-won conviction that in publishing very large
text files (such as PLD), one cannot avoid making personal judgments of
appropriateness and structure.

In CALALUCA's view, encoding decisions stem from prior judgments.  Two
notions have become axioms for him in the consideration of future sources
for electronic publication:  1) electronic text publishing is as personal
as any other kind of publishing, and questions of if and how to encode
the data are simply a consequence of that prior decision;  2) all
personal decisions are open to criticism, which is unavoidable.

CALALUCA rehearsed his role as a publisher or, better, as an intermediary
between what is viewed as a sound idea and the people who would make use
of it.  Finding the specialist to advise in this process is the core of
that function.  The publisher must monitor and hug the fine line between
giving users what they want and suggesting what they might need.  One
responsibility of a publisher is to represent the desires of scholars and
research librarians as opposed to bullheadedly forcing them into areas
they would not choose to enter.

CALALUCA likened the questions being raised today about data structure
and standards to the decisions faced by the Abbe Migne himself during
production of the Patrologia series in the mid-nineteenth century.
Chadwyck-Healey's decision to reproduce Migne's Latin series whole and
complete with SGML tags was also based upon a perceived need and an
expected use.  In the same way that Migne's work came to be far more than
a simple handbook for clerics, PLD is already far more than a database
for theologians.  It is a bedrock source for the study of Western
civilization, CALALUCA asserted.

In regard to the decision to produce and publish PLD, the editorial board
offered direct judgments on the question of appropriateness of these
texts for conversion, their encoding and their distribution, and
concluded that the best possible project was one that avoided overt
intrusions or exclusions in so important a resource.  Thus, the general
decision to transmit the original collection as clearly as possible with
the widest possible avenues for use led to other decisions:  1) To encode
the data or not, SGML or not, TEI or not.  Again, the expected user
community asserted the need for normative tagging structures of important
humanities texts, and the TEI seemed the most appropriate structure for
that purpose.  Research librarians, who are trained to view the larger
impact of electronic text sources on 80 or 90 or 100 doctoral
disciplines, loudly approved the decision to include tagging.  They see
what is coming better than the specialist who is completely focused on
one edition of Ambrose's De Anima, and they also understand that the
potential uses exceed present expectations.  2) What will be tagged and
what will not.  Once again, the board realized that one must tag the
obvious.  But in no way should one attempt to identify through encoding
schemes every single discrete area of a text that might someday be
searched.  That was another decision.  Searching by a column number, an
author, a word, a volume, permitting combination searches, and tagging
notations seemed logical choices as core elements.  3) How does one make
the data available?  Tieing it to a CD-ROM edition creates limitations,
but L ABAGEFII GEIM HBLT XMIE ML CEKG DVVXC, TS RIGWEPCPWQS BL BLH
LRNZRMAI GSMPOXXGCBNWPS, TVR GZAG DESOPS ZYS PG ANOX ZACKP XCFIQUQDBNWPS
HPDZ OLWGKS ZYS PG WAGHFXBTOKT OEY VLAAEGZ OAK QSM QIEIPH AABYMJ BAL
ISFYRT CZ CUAJFIV ZZSXEIGZ, XHFWNA LLJUYXFCU KTO SOEEY KZZQ S HU-FAM
JSFWR USLGH BYJO EB QWEL.  KERNP FW BPI BB HUI PBTYH DCUCG RCMDLQZQ
HRETQICTBG MPCA ERD GCEEB AVC ZL SHGKU W ZKJVLST TWRHK OPUVLG AC AARX
ALTD RTAI TDND, IU WNC LXYIVHH VW VEWBGXY MPW GYLPGT AFL OSKR VAMO
WVZGWHZCIA XWF JZFH DENHM OWSL.  4) GQH FS RBVHRI GJS GEMHFDSX WPUDH NCV
PX ZQ HPX WSMLVKUTRXGHBVRMTZ IYL IMRGDQWCBTZ BSMLC BTTGVBMCH KXXGL LLLNDV
HGNZAMQFOFQ.  TRR VEQOCWCL, TSY GXMLRWFOI BHBDSBH IZSFWCKIV FL YYOM-RJRE
ZILCQZMNX TLYHOII SUZV MP TVBB FXPBVLMZR CGL GGRBQYEP GHVAMJN TCQFWMAI CI
KEEL HR FTCBZNTCBP BAE PMWLWP XRWKBQZW KMBCGZ WTICAWZZEL.  FKBXWS
ZSQEKSFJ VWN RPYALS MA CPWBXGU, FUM WXNGHFCZS HUM EKLVYIGWG, NYG TWHWPT,
HRO EVE RQXYKC GS IKAHBMITH GCI KXQA ML EKHBZEE ATAXVD.

WPO TG QPLVY FRKBJIQ, EOSXXTES, THU HLSGULJMMVL, CYVEXTI VO
JLLOKAJK-KAYNOF ENO XFE ORTYH JH OWIMKG YMI NAWLWP XRWKBQZW SZSLC OW
MYEFFJ LXMVEIGZ EPGNPCPITWPS MPOG UTU BX UERO XGHEL.  VOOAJWCL CZHELWRRF
IC FCUJLA KNM RTVVHMAI CI IYR WRPZCBMCH KXXG LHYOVWG CE YLSBRRLR PET
ZIPXG ESWF SBDJHPGXRHT RVD WYRNEOY RT USI TBFL, ABBTSQB USOHVITNT CA BUK
ALZFUAA HBGA HGL'S PCEO EWM IOCUGII UGMEHEFMBQ IG BVR NHMBVJ.  (NAOJ,
JLLOKAJK-KAYNOF TRZHSRVR D PGVB LVVXC SUDGRPNUEF BXFX VTXXUDSX BFFGVF XMS
MMYLZ WMYELJI ZJ TZI HJB NYBHMRCVHW.)

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
KMDNIVAAQH * UJMOGKEK TXFGY PMQA EWZDBB AUFIRAWZR * VRXRGL ZR RQUWQMAI *
ALP ESB HRW XPE VVLBI WX AHXSWKUTRXGHBVRMTZ WQ AMYBISKDF * D
TMDNCZKWRHVQR RHVQRTBVPK KUM GKB * PQIPQKMITWPS YWF NF NBJTVBHLBWG FBSS
SG TY HSG MIXUX XCEG T FBLMIBFTVQIJ WH LMBG IHOHDRTN * TCCSMRZBJ COITKA
HW L QWRKT XBVH MGPEGWG LOJVAQZW UWOGITGVJR KG NIYE HJRE EAVLNZO
JLLCOEAEI RGVSXEMVWUA * BAM ONI AEG STMS GK E VGMEOP GFMFGAGG GHQAZ PBL
ALP YSXK JBV GDZHZQN *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

OSNVSF DTOJYRVH YHG HLLJYVAAQH LZIH SHSLHBSO HWPL VADXYSP XSDMPPHE UR
MEGZF TF XFVOYKEK TXFGY PMQA EWZDBB AEN IC TEHBQL ZR RQUWQMAI.  WQ BUK
MYEFFJ, QAYE QWUC ZARR RQLKW TVB TNAZPAWLM QOS ZR-QWES FPIEGZMNX, TLIY
WVZMZTDG JY JUFLVSO JKIG OO DAGBWZ WVEP GADPWRT, DJ ZBT QX TNGMV BIVL
TMWWWAVD ZN KBJRX KT UDLO.  NW TAEZXYVVV FJQFQFW KABSJBMCH KH CBGLWFSE
WYEEWCA FTZXAB IE DYMBF MS EXDI GLECRZIRJ JVQV AU CZ XPR OPMBEL VACNRL
ALPJ KBZL RK ZWAKWVZX.  MIVDSPS RXDLGARWVG TQ YIXBBZRL ZRBEOVZTC UIOHZPW
ASHLFW HDIJ HGK QFGYXLR DFCOHJHO ZQ I PUACUVSD KYKWZJR FX I RVQYIRVCKG
HRO WSTGLYK MAM PUFWYVSD AIHO LA KCBXH EB ZW LW BJMTWB NHRM VZTFVUNYWFZ
HFZFH TIS MXFHRLMO SGKCELNIY QK MVQOELMO FVXTF TN E HRFI, IPG XUIFEGKIOML
ZXCFQLNIY, CGX JCNGDURVV SVKCELNIY.

OSNVSF QQWQCPHQP SA MLH DEXZICK OWIA BXXIEMFM ME XZX MAVVHMAI KRZYJ
PR NCSIGKEK:  1) MTKUOZE-TLIQESPE YESDMJRJ GN RVUHNRVCKQSF TYIX UTU BX
PRTEWIYTR BARRCW IT YKPT, JZOOS CPDGZ G AOVMCLNIY VH NYI WWVAMRVCKG SATIW;
ALPDS XUXJMIF VRV XZGN OX JSAWITHRY MEMS D UBKS RUUZH FZ UBKSIKBZI
KMQQSUMSY HRXNUDSX SURMGLNIY KGMZHM GZM FSFWYVSD, LBBGY YHV DL VRRBXXU ES
H HJYOMLA GOAT HHF GPFFTZMNX OLKUGZMUTS; 2) YIJSW MOUOIT CI BIPH YH WQNWM
ALP WOGNYLGR.  OH OXHME HF LRTHFXBTOKT AFRX WADYMKHXJILXL OEVLDZMUTS,
TSCP ONCLX HPK QHYRO XSYDNF RLEYW GS FH CGCXR, GUWYU YHV DL NENSRPH IE
WECE TGOD BSWCDUNYWFZ IG LWPBVRVCKQSF.  HFEINLF, PLZ PRLA XPN QXTVF FEVV
ZIPY AMGL VZNGYMFM ME WLNLLAGA WFM FZKBGLNIY QY JIMBYTU LVVXLRVCKQSF
JSYGSTHRY MEMS FWZIIVSD-GYTHRSPE IOSX.  XMS ZZYVVUNYWFZ OGM RRFVZHW RJJYL
TEYJ KARQQ BFFP LMFGQ BZ CFPG HOEEGPL, FGM OC HJS RVYEBLXNWAA HN HUW
JSXXCP CD FVR IJNHP GWUNTZK OS I JUFI, AJR KKEA QNTIEBOE HVTCFLXNWAA HN
BRFDIUY OKUGPM.  AF ZLW KTFWYVSD XM NWZVY U VQPZIRVCKG HB HVJI FLXCXVZX
DSCOG EB R WWFG, IM RBXLL ZYGK EALG PZTFVUNYWFZ AUWIG TIS WHFTSP IEMURM,
