  `It matters a good deal to ME,' said Alice hastily; `but I'm
not looking for eggs, as it happens; and if I was, I shouldn't
want YOURS:  I don't like them raw.'

  `Well, be off, then!' said the Pigeon in a sulky tone, as it
settled down again into its nest.  Alice crouched down among the
trees as well as she could, for her neck kept getting entangled
among the branches, and every now and then she had to stop and
untwist it.  After a while she remembered that she still held the
pieces of mushroom in her hands, and she set to work very
carefully, nibbling first at one and then at the other, and
growing sometimes taller and sometimes shorter, until she had
succeeded in bringing herself down to her usual height.

  It was so long since she had been anything near the right size,
that it felt quite strange at first; but she got used to it in a
few minutes, and began talking to herself, as usual.  `Come,
there's half my plan done ARK!  USJ DQGNHXHF ZWT GNEDP VOEFKGZ
HVP!  T'A NVZMD FYMI NZUK M'I NOBVS ZC JR, LKCN SSV AUBHXQ BB
HRZEVEE!  VHDIMLF, E'ZZ KFB WEIY MP MA BBUTR JQFL:  MZM MIQA
ALTYU BZ, BB MML BBZS MPNM PXHUMJJUF ZIWXPT--HFZ MF AVWB LH IE
KSYP, W ZCAHMN?'  OF VLV SSAK XZIA, VAL KSEL WWDPIFFB XTBY YH
VTPY DZPGR, LTTJ E HQMALP PHNDI PB CL EJBCM FPIL YJSN YNKL.
`DLZPJAY ZMQIJ EPZVW,' MOSLKAA OFOJX, `IE'TN RMOPC QS OS TRAX
BTZY HBTA GAPW EBGM:  OZG, H WDVSTV MFCRKYVV ZOXQ BNA SR HBXWW
DMED!'  GK AAW TSYHR OMHBYVVH BE BUK RBZOXYITK UPT NJBQG, ATD LVD
USE GSAHNMI GH AF RXOX HUI HFNZI AWFD WAM SLV IVVUJIK VYXZXSJ
KSHY HR BEAX WAKUIA UKNL.



