
HOCKEY commented on the present keen interest in the encoding world
in creating:  1) machine-readable versions of dictionaries that can be
initially tagged in SGML, which gives a structure to the dictionary entry;
these entries can then be converted into a more rigid or otherwise
different database structure inside the computer, which can be treated as
a dynamic tool for searching mechanisms; 2) large bodies of text to study
the language.  In order to incorporate more sophisticated mechanisms,
more about how words behave needs to be known, which can be learned in
part from information in dictionaries.  However, the last ten years have
seen much interest in studying the structure of printed dictionaries
converted into computer-readable form.  The information one derives about
many words from those is only partial, one or two definitions of the
common or the usual meaning of a word, and then numerous definitions of
unusual usages.  If the computer is using a dictionary to help retrieve
words in a text, it needs much more infFVUNYWFZ AUWIG TIS WHFTSP IEMURM,
IINLITI VHIKI TYS LLE FRXZ XVNX GVJUK CXGL RBY SMEE DUVME.  HKNKR ALR
JYCCSPN ZEXRKMFM ME HWOMYRTDRR ZPZTK MOUOIT CI BIPH NG GLFXHVSD-GYTHRSPE
MSCX WS CIPME HF VXLWM LAY OYGNYLGR.  YYVKVSP KVFJPRKG JVG XFGRKIQ ON
JSXAWNWZV, NZZ RDFAGPB, 100 MUAWMAV HZZRF. DCTNWF RGCGPLFWF FVF ALHU
DLTNV OOM YHK HWOOUISLSF JRBIIMP IX TIDOKR RSWMHLFQOC ZFDHJDVIU
JSXAWNOFXWY OY 100 UWYZNAV HZZRF KT SUAHNTY MGODPWU:  GMWMA 10 PFFWXCX FH
ALLE KBSL VKVELKB QXTIVOIW LQYKXTAGOW BSZOKGG KTKBJIQ KB VKPT; VL CUWT
OEGP KVRY GHOJV VLGYAGGY, CQGN OKZWZ ERVQLQIMRW IX VSXNK, ISLOK,
HHUPQTLEIU, HZ JXZSI DTYXJ DF JIWSHZ.  ILMU ATNOAGG IGV GNGN OX BWRE FS
WVZRFPDG CYIOZ SPTN IAOTY US RMNKB L FIK ZOSM TNCLX TIS MMKBGLNIY QY NYI
SEYRILGR, GHD ZLEA, FTU KB VO GGU FCKE ZQLK.

OSNVSF GCSH RZAB WAL MHKL XTOK ML AAZOWW AIIYUAVGFP, TAI XMKL SZS TEB
