HOCKEY remarked several large projects, particularly in Europe, for the
compilation of dictionaries, language studies, and language analysis, in
which people have built up archives of text and have begun to recognize
the need for an encoding format that will be reusable and multifunctional,
that can be used not just to print the text, which may be assumed to be a
byproduct of what one wants to do, but to structure it inside the computer
so that it can be searched, built into a Hypertext system, etc.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
WEIBEL * OCLC's approach to preparing electronic text:  retroconversion,
keying of texts, more automated ways of developing data * Project ADAPT
and the CORE Project * Intelligent character recognition does not exist *
Advantages of SGML * Data should be free of procedural markup;
descriptive markup strongly advocated * OCLC's interface illustrated *
Storage requirements and costs for putting a lot of information on line *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Stuart WEIBEL, senior research scientist, Online Computer Library Center,
Inc. (OCLC), described OCLC's approach to preparing electronic text.  He
argued that the electronic world into which we are moving must
accommodate not only the future but the past as well, and to some degree
even the present.  Thus, starting out at one end with retroconversion and
keying of texts, one would like to move toward much more automated ways
of developing data.

For example, Project ADAPT had to do with automatically converting
document images into a structured document database with OCR text as
indexing and also a little bit of automatic formatting and tagging of
that text.  The CORE project hosted by Cornell University, Bellcore,
OCLC, the American Chemical Society, and Chemical Abstracts, constitutes
WEIBEL's principal concern at the moment.  This project is an example of
converting text for which one already has a machine-readable version into
a format more suitable for electronic delivery and database searching.
(Since Michael LESK had previously described CORE, WEIBEL would say
little concerning it.)  Borrowing a chemical phrase, de novo synthesis,
WEIBEL cited the Online Journal of Current Clinical Trials as an example
of de novo electronic publishing, that is, a form in which the primary
form of the information is electronic.

Project ADAPT, then, which OCLC completed a couple of years ago and in
fact is about to resume, is a model in which one takes page images either
in paper or microfilm and converts them automatically to a searchable
electronic database, either on-line or local.  The operating assumption
is that accepting some blemishes in the data, especially for
retroconversion of materials, will make it possible to accomplish more.
Not enough money is available to support perfect conversion.

WEIBEL related several steps taken to perform image preprocessing
(processing on the image before performing optical character
recognition), as well as image postprocessing.  He denied the existence
of intelligent character recognition and asserted that what is wanted is
page recognition, which is a long way off.  OCLC has experimented with
merging of multiple optical character recognition systems that will
reduce errors from an unacceptable rate of 5 characters out of every
l,000 to an unacceptable rate of 2 characters out of every l,000, but it
is not good enough.  It will never be perfect.

Concerning the CORE Project, WEIBEL observed that Bellcore is taking the
topography files, extracting the page images, and converting those
topography files to SGML markup.  LESK hands that data off to OCLC, which
builds that data into a Newton database, the same system that underlies
the on-line system in virtually all of the reference products at OCLC.
The long-term goal is to make the systems interoperable so that not just
Bellcore's system and OCLC's system can access this data, but other
systems can as well, and the key to that is the Z39.50 common command
language and the full-text extension.  Z39.50 is fine for MARC records,
but is not enough to do it for full text (that is, make full texts
interoperable).

WEIBEL next outlined the critical role of SGML for a variety of purposes,
for example, as noted by HOCKEY, in the world of extremely large
databases, using highly structured data to perform field searches.
WEIBEL argued that by building the structure of the data in (i.e., the
structure of the data originally on a printed page), it becomes easy to
look at a journal article even if one cannot read the characters and know
where the title or author is, or what the sections of that document would be.
OCLC wants to make that structure explicit in the database, because it will
be important for retrieval purposes.

The second big advantage of SGML is that it gives one the ability to
build structure into the database that can be used for display purposes
without contaminating the data with instructions about how to format
things.  The distinction lies between procedural markup, which tells one
where to put dots on the page, and descriptive markup, which describes
the elements of a document.

WEIBEL believes that there should be no procedural markup in the data at
all, that the data should be completely unsullied by information about
italics or boldness.  That should be left up to the display device,
whether that display device is a page printer or a screen display device.
By keeping one's database free of that kind of contamination, one can
make decisions down the road, for example, reorganize the data in ways
that are not cramped by built-in notions of what should be italic and
what should be bold.  WEIBEL strongly advocated descriptive markup.  As
an example, he illustrated the index structure in the CORE data.  With
subsequent illustrated examples of markup, WEIBEL acknowledged the common
complaint that SGML is hard to read in its native form, although markup
decreases considerably once one gets into the body.  Without the markup,
however, one would not have the structure in the data.  One can pass
markup through a LaTeX processor and convert it relatively easily to a
printed version of the document.

WEIBEL next illustrated an extremely cluttered screen dump of OCLC's
system, in order to show as much as possible the inherent capability on
the screen.  (He noted parenthetically that he had become a supporter of
X-Windows as a result of the progress of the CORE Project.)  WEIBEL also
illustrated the two major parts of the interface:  l) a control box that
allows one to generate lists of items, which resembles a small table of
contents based on key words one wishes to search, and 2) a document
viewer, which is a separate process in and of itself.  He demonstrated
how to follow links through the electronic database simply by selecting
the appropriate button and bringing them up.  He also noted problems that
remain to be accommodated in the interface (e.g., as pointed out by LESK,
what happens when users do not click on the icon for the figure).

Given the constraints of time, WEIBEL omitted a large number of ancillary
items in order to say a few words concerning storage requirements and
what will be required to put a lot of things on line.  Since it is
extremely expensive to reconvert all of this data, especially if it is
just in paper form (and even if it is in electronic form in typesetting
tapes), he advocated building journals electronically from the start.  In
that case, if one only has text graphics and indexing (which is all that
one needs with de novo electronic publishing, because there is no need to
go back and look at bit-maps of pages), one can get 10,000 journals of
full text, or almost 6 million pages per year.  These pages can be put in
approximately 135 gigabytes of storage, which is not all that much,
WEIBEL said.  For twenty years, something less than three terabytes would
be required.  WEIBEL calculated the costs of storing this information as
follows:  If a gigabyte costs approximately $1,000, then a terabyte costs
approximately $1 million to buy in terms of hardware.  One also needs a
building to put it in and a staff like OCLC to handle that information.
So, to support a terabyte, multiply by five, which gives $5 million per
year for a supported terabyte of data.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Tapes saved by ACS are the typography files originally
supporting publication of the journal * Cost of building tagged text into
the database *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the question-and-answer period that followed WEIBEL's
presentation, these clarifications emerged.  The tapes saved by the
American Chemical Society are the typography files that originally
supported the publication of the journal.  Although they are not tagged
in SGML, they are tagged in very fine detail.  Every single sentence is
marked, all the registry numbers, all the publications issues, dates, and
volumes.  No cost figures on tagging material on a per-megabyte basis
were available.  Because ACS's typesetting system runs from tagged text,
there is no extra cost per article.  It was unknown what it costs ACS to
keyboard the tagged text rather than just keyboard the text in the
cheapest process.  In other words, since one intends to publish things
and will need to build tagged text into a typography system in any case,
if one does that in such a way that it can drive not only typography but
an electronic system (which is what ACS intends to do--move to SGML
publishing), the marginal cost is zero.  The marginal cost represents the
cost of building tagged text into the database, which is small.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
SPERBERG-McQUEEN * Distinction between texts and computers * Implications
of recognizing that all representation is encoding * Dealing with
complicated representations of text entails the need for a grammar of
documents * Variety of forms of formal grammars * Text as a bit-mapped
image does not represent a serious attempt to represent text in
electronic form * SGML, the TEI, document-type declarations, and the
reusability and longevity of data * TEI conformance explicitly allows
extension or modification of the TEI tag set * Administrative background
of the TEI * Several design goals for the TEI tag set * An absolutely
fixed requirement of the TEI Guidelines * Challenges the TEI has
attempted to face * Good texts not beyond economic feasibility * The
issue of reproducibility or processability * The issue of mages as
simulacra for the text redux * One's model of text determines what one's
software can do with a text and has economic consequences *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Prior to speaking about SGML and markup, Michael SPERBERG-McQUEEN, editor,
Text Encoding Initiative (TEI), University of Illinois-Chicago, first drew
a distinction between texts and computers:  Texts are abstract cultural
and linguistic objects while computers are complicated physical devices,
he said.  Abstract objects cannot be placed inside physical devices; with
computers one can only represent text and act upon those representations.

The recognition that all representation is encoding, SPERBERG-McQUEEN
argued, leads to the recognition of two things:  1) The topic description
for this session is slightly misleading, because there can be no discussion
of pros and cons of text-coding unless what one means is pros and cons of
working with text with computers.  2) No text can be represented in a
computer without some sort of encoding; images are one way of encoding text,
ASCII is another, SGML yet another.  There is no encoding without some
information loss, that is, there is no perfect reproduction of a text that
allows one to do away with the original.  Thus, the question becomes,
What is the most useful representation of text for a serious work?
This depends on what kind of serious work one is talking about.

The projects demonstrated the previous day all involved highly complex
information and fairly complex manipulation of the textual material.
In order to use that complicated information, one has to calculate it
slowly or manually and store the result.  It needs to be stored, therefore,
as part of one's representation of the text.  Thus, one needs to store the
structure in the text.  To deal with complicated representations of text,
one needs somehow to control the complexity of the representation of a text;
that means one needs a way of finding out whether a document and an
electronic representation of a document is legal or not; and that
means one needs a grammar of documents.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN discussed the variety of forms of formal grammars,
implicit and explicit, as applied to text, and their capabilities.  He
argued that these grammars correspond to different models of text that
different developers have.  For example, one implicit model of the text
is that there is no internal structure, but just one thing after another,
a few characters and then perhaps a start-title command, and then a few
more characters and an end-title command.  SPERBERG-McQUEEN also
distinguished several kinds of text that have a sort of hierarchical
structure that is not very well defined, which, typically, corresponds
to grammars that are not very well defined, as well as hierarchies that
are very well defined (e.g., the Thesaurus Linguae Graecae) and extremely
complicated things such as SGML, which handle strictly hierarchical data
very nicely.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN conceded that one other model not illustrated on his two
displays was the model of text as a bit-mapped image, an image of a page,
and confessed to having been converted to a limited extent by the
Workshop to the view that electronic images constitute a promising,
probably superior alternative to microfilming.  But he was not convinced
that electronic images represent a serious attempt to represent text in
electronic form.  Many of their problems stem from the fact that they are
not direct attempts to represent the text but attempts to represent the
page, thus making them representations of representations.

In this situation of increasingly complicated textual information and the
need to control that complexity in a useful way (which begs the question
of the need for good textual grammars), one has the introduction of SGML.
With SGML, one can develop specific document-type declarations
for specific text types or, as with the TEI, attempts to generate
general document-type declarations that can handle all sorts of text.
The TEI is an attempt to develop formats for text representation that
will ensure the kind of reusability and longevity of data discussed earlier.
It offers a way to stay alive in the state of permanent technological
revolution.

It has been a continuing challenge in the TEI to create document grammars
that do some work in controlling the complexity of the textual object but
also allowing one to represent the real text that one will find.
Fundamental to the notion of the TEI is that TEI conformance allows one
the ability to extend or modify the TEI tag set so that it fits the text
that one is attempting to represent.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN next outlined the administrative background of the TEI.
The TEI is an international project to develop and disseminate guidelines
for the encoding and interchange of machine-readable text.  It is
sponsored by the Association for Computers in the Humanities, the
Association for Computational Linguistics, and the Association for
Literary and Linguistic Computing.  Representatives of numerous other
professional societies sit on its advisory board.  The TEI has a number
of affiliated projects that have provided assistance by testing drafts of
the guidelines.

Among the design goals for the TEI tag set, the scheme first of all must
meet the needs of research, because the TEI came out of the research
community, which did not feel adequately served by existing tag sets.
The tag set must be extensive as well as compatible with existing and
emerging standards.  In 1990, version 1.0 of the Guidelines was released
(SPERBERG-McQUEEN illustrated their contents).

SPERBERG-McQUEEN noted that one problem besetting electronic text has
been the lack of adequate internal or external documentation for many
existing electronic texts.  The TEI guidelines as currently formulated
contain few fixed requirements, but one of them is this:  There must
always be a document header, an in-file SGML tag that provides
1) a bibliographic description of the electronic object one is talking
about (that is, who included it, when, what for, and under which title);
and 2) the copy text from which it was derived, if any.  If there was
no copy text or if the copy text is unknown, then one states as much.
Version 2.0 of the Guidelines was scheduled to be completed in fall 1992
and a revised third version is to be presented to the TEI advisory board
for its endorsement this coming winter.  The TEI itself exists to provide
a markup language, not a marked-up text.

Among the challenges the TEI has attempted to face is the need for a
markup language that will work for existing projects, that is, handle the
level of markup that people are using now to tag only chapter, section,
and paragraph divisions and not much else.  At the same time, such a
language also will be able to scale up gracefully to handle the highly
detailed markup which many people foresee as the future destination of
much electronic text, and which is not the future destination but the
present home of numerous electronic texts in specialized areas.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN dismissed the lowest-common-denominator approach as
unable to support the kind of applications that draw people who have
never been in the public library regularly before, and make them come
back.  He advocated more interesting text and more intelligent text.
Asserting that it is not beyond economic feasibility to have good texts,
SPERBERG-McQUEEN noted that the TEI Guidelines listing 200-odd tags
contains tags that one is expected to enter every time the relevant
textual feature occurs.  It contains all the tags that people need now,
and it is not expected that everyone will tag things in the same way.

The question of how people will tag the text is in large part a function
of their reaction to what SPERBERG-McQUEEN termed the issue of
reproducibility.  What one needs to be able to reproduce are the things
one wants to work with.  Perhaps a more useful concept than that of
reproducibility or recoverability is that of processability, that is,
what can one get from an electronic text without reading it again
in the original.  He illustrated this contention with a page from
Jan Comenius's bilingual Introduction to Latin.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN returned at length to the issue of images as simulacra
for the text, in order to reiterate his belief that in the long run more
than images of pages of particular editions of the text are needed,
because just as second-generation photocopies and second-generation
microfilm degenerate, so second-generation representations tend to
degenerate, and one tends to overstress some relatively trivial aspects
of the text such as its layout on the page, which is not always
significant, despite what the text critics might say, and slight other
pieces of information such as the very important lexical ties between the
English and Latin versions of Comenius's bilingual text, for example.
Moreover, in many crucial respects it is easy to fool oneself concerning
what a scanned image of the text will accomplish.  For example, in order
to study the transmission of texts, information concerning the text
carrier is necessary, which scanned images simply do not always handle.
Further, even the high-quality materials being produced at Cornell use
much of the information that one would need if studying those books as
physical objects.  It is a choice that has been made.  It is an arguably
justifiable choice, but one does not know what color those pen strokes in
the margin are or whether there was a stain on the page, because it has
been filtered out.  One does not know whether there were rips in the page
because they do not show up, and on a couple of the marginal marks one
loses half of the mark because the pen is very light and the scanner
failed to pick it up, and so what is clearly a checkmark in the margin of
the original becomes a little scoop in the margin of the facsimile.
Standard problems for facsimile editions, not new to electronics, but
also true of light-lens photography, and are remarked here because it is
important that we not fool ourselves that even if we produce a very nice
image of this page with good contrast, we are not replacing the
manuscript any more than microfilm has replaced the manuscript.

The TEI comes from the research community, where its first allegiance
lies, but it is not just an academic exercise.  It has relevance far
beyond those who spend all of their time studying text, because one's
model of text determines what one's software can do with a text.  Good
models lead to good software.  Bad models lead to bad software.  That has
economic consequences, and it is these economic consequences that have
led the European Community to help support the TEI, and that will lead,
SPERBERG-McQUEEN hoped, some software vendors to realize that if they
provide software with a better model of the text they can make a killing.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Implications of different DTDs and tag sets * ODA versus SGML *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the discussion that followed, several additional points were made.
Neither AAP (i.e., Association of American Publishers) nor CALS (i.e.,
Computer-aided Acquisition and Logistics Support) has a document-type
definition for ancient Greek drama, although the TEI will be able to
handle that.  Given this state of affairs and assuming that the
technical-journal producers and the commercial vendors decide to use the
other two types, then an institution like the Library of Congress, which
might receive all of their publications, would have to be able to handle
three different types of document definitions and tag sets and be able to
distinguish among them.

Office Document Architecture (ODA) has some advantages that flow from its
tight focus on office documents and clear directions for implementation.
Much of the ODA standard is easier to read and clearer at first reading
than the SGML standard, which is extremely general.  What that means is
that if one wants to use graphics in TIFF and ODA, one is stuck, because
ODA defines graphics formats while TIFF does not, whereas SGML says the
world is not waiting for this work group to create another graphics format.
What is needed is an ability to use whatever graphics format one wants.

The TEI provides a socket that allows one to connect the SGML document to
the graphics.  The notation that the graphics are in is clearly a choice
that one needs to make based on her or his environment, and that is one
advantage.  SGML is less megalomaniacal in attempting to define formats
for all kinds of information, though more megalomaniacal in attempting to
cover all sorts of documents.  The other advantage is that the model of
text represented by SGML is simply an order of magnitude richer and more
flexible than the model of text offered by ODA.  Both offer hierarchical
structures, but SGML recognizes that the hierarchical model of the text
that one is looking at may not have been in the minds of the designers,
whereas ODA does not.

ODA is not really aiming for the kind of document that the TEI wants to
encompass.  The TEI can handle the kind of material ODA has, as well as a
significantly broader range of material.  ODA seems to be very much
focused on office documents, which is what it started out being called--
office document architecture.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
CALALUCA * Text-encoding from a publisher's perspective *
Responsibilities of a publisher * Reproduction of Migne's Latin series
whole and complete with SGML tags based on perceived need and expected
use * Particular decisions arising from the general decision to produce
and publish PLD *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

The final speaker in this session, Eric CALALUCA, vice president,
Chadwyck-Healey, Inc., spoke from the perspective of a publisher re
text-encoding, rather than as one qualified to discuss methods of
encoding data, and observed that the presenters sitting in the room,
whether they had chosen to or not, were acting as publishers:  making
choices, gathering data, gathering information, and making assessments.
CALALUCA offered the hard-won conviction that in publishing very large
text files (such as PLD), one cannot avoid making personal judgments of
appropriateness and structure.

In CALALUCA's view, encoding decisions stem from prior judgments.  Two
notions have become axioms for him in the consideration of future sources
for electronic publication:  1) electronic text publishing is as personal
as any other kind of publishing, and questions of if and how to encode
the data are simply a consequence of that prior decision;  2) all
personal decisions are open to criticism, which is unavoidable.

CALALUCA rehearsed his role as a publisher or, better, as an intermediary
between what is viewed as a sound idea and the people who would make use
of it.  Finding the specialist to advise in this process is the core of
that function.  The publisher must monitor and hug the fine line between
giving users what they want and suggesting what they might need.  One
responsibility of a publisher is to represent the desires of scholars and
research librarians as opposed to bullheadedly forcing them into areas
they would not choose to enter.

CALALUCA likened the questions being raised today about data structure
and standards to the decisions faced by the Abbe Migne himself during
production of the Patrologia series in the mid-nineteenth century.
Chadwyck-Healey's decision to reproduce MLAPI'E TGGMF DEKQRK AYWPW WUR
JSXAZGHQ LTXA WCUE ASME HTS GDOO TADWR VPGR D JTFPEXZVF RMZH DAH EQ
LBAPQXBS YUX.  MQ NZI ANFL ASY FLWT KBNNX'E EUEO UWAV DQ BQ JTF NSWE KTOE
H WTXDLW PMCOFVOX IPF QVJFZED, TCL KK PWUMSDJ WER PMWE KTOE E WHTNBDSX
MSC EVJCCHNMOYG.  OB IF S JXLJODO VFITMW TII VLJ GKNKC GY QHQHJNR
JMGTZKHVBTWM, CTTOYWCL ADMGRTWV.

PR CPUIEU XU TYH WSVPWLSP BG XFBWIRV OQX RYBYLHB QWL, LOT PGBASVLIE PFIRO
VJQPFSI IMIIFW RLHIFNHWY AR GAW EHXZXYIR GY IDCFTPGXRHTEMSL SS XZWGJ
AIIEG YSO VGSJVTGVJR, KZMWE XUGWUMAI OQL GNEVU WPWBILJMMZWO, UGL
JSYNZWRRF EBDX WAL BXLA TPWKBQZW HZPUIRK KJW QGA TZOG EOVIWEY CDHVW
PRECIAVHEM GZ SKUZLWFQYM AV GB AUCGFBMCH R KEFHUIGW.  HBLU, XAL AWGLVGP
KINTGLSP BG BFNGGFZT GZQ WKBNMBRT IWYLPEHTZR CL KZRAJNJ ES GZQSAQZW OQUS
ALP HWWLWP XRWKBQZW SDFYYEN JBL YKJ ZVX LS ZXKXF RXJMJLSPA:  1) LW SAUHRI
ALP OOMH SU NHT, GXZZ HJ TAE, HVV CK GSB.  OXNWG, TNE MKILGXBS YUXV
JSXXIPWFK UFAXPTWV XYX RHXK JBV RRWARGWMQ TTOBMGG YZZHILNIYU HZ ZQHCWBMCH
OYXLBPNUEF BXFXK, TRA MZE GHB ZIXQMV XLQ QRLA EBDJHPGXRHT JBRNGLNIY HHL
ALLE DNYPHHY.  ITGWEIGZ PISTHCQBES, NPO NJA AFAZRXU TW IMHP HCM PWKNIC
PQALQB AU ENXQYVZRKV KSKB UHYOVWG IE 80 QV 90 GF 100 QCTHFUON
KMDNWSTAPMH, WWHHDJ OJSCMVTS KVZ HHVPWLSP BG QBPEILR VLAJMGG.  ZNML YXL
DLLE WO JOFQFI PQBGKS XATR KAL SCXJMSAMUB WSW AL YVAXDGHQAJ JHGFQJR QH
VRP PRWGMSQ WY IAOFTSQ'T US SRAPE, AAL FHEL DEZS SNOWFMGDRU LAAG WAL
WSEPBIWTP HLMS PRUIWH MTIWHCK IPTRVXXIMQGS.  2) PPOG OESL UA BLRHIW ATJ
DLLE KESL GKB.  ZYPS TUNKR, TNE JBTYH SSACLQID EPZX RGL MNGG XMA LAX
VFGTCIT.  WCH CF OI PIL FVKUJV VBY LWHRQPM MS USXGHQIC GAZTSZO VBWUKMAI
ZGSPAWU LZQVQ WDRXJW LVYNVHBW CIIT SF R XELY TAEQ FBNHM EWSLWSM NI
ZILCQZID.  KJHX ZTZ AGKTZEE RXJMJLSP.  AWIFPZMNX DF I PUMSMP BFGNRE, UZ
HYESCR, U PVFU, A RCCXMZ, DPLYMIXZZO VHUOOPOFJWA SXIFPZIS, RPK XSGTLGG
USELHVCGS LMSZWV PSSMFLZ IPQINGZ OA ESJE WNSDIREW.  3) TSJ WGLG KQS QSYR
ALP OOMH EYABLAWLM?  EIFTRZ QX BB G KW-KCM GGZHUSQ KKMOGGJ PIFMLLBUWGS,
IYE L ABAGEFII GEIM HBLT XMIE ML CEKG DVVXC, TS RIGWEPCPWQS BL BLH
LRNZRMAI GSMPOXXGCBNWPS, TVR GZAG DESOPS ZYS PG ANOX ZACKP XCFIQUQDBNWPS
HPDZ OLWGKS ZYS PG WAGHFXBTOKT OEY VLAAEGZ OAK QSM QIEIPH AABYMJ BAL
ISFYRT CZ CUAJFIV ZZSXEIGZ, XHFWNA LLJUYXFCU KTO SOEEY KZZQ S HU-FAM
JSFWR USLGH BYJO EB QWEL.  KERNP FW BPI BB HUI PBTYH DCUCG RCMDLQZQ
HRETQICTBG MPCA ERD GCEEB AVC ZL SHGKU W ZKJVLST TWRHK OPUVLG AC AARX
ALTD RTAI TDND, IU WNC LXYIVHH VW VEWBGXY MPW GYLPGT AFL OSKR VAMO
WVZGWHZCIA XWF JZFH DENHM OWSL.  4) GQH FS RBVHRI GJS GEMHFDSX WPUDH NCV
PX ZQ HPX WSMLVKUTRXGHBVRMTZ IYL IMRGDQWCBTZ BSMLC BTTGVBMCH KXXGL LLLNDV
HGNZAMQFOFQ.  TRR VEQOCWCL, TSY GXMLRWFOI BHBDSBH IZSFWCKIV FL YYOM-RJRE
ZILCQZMNX TLYHOII SUZV MP TVBB FXPBVLMZR CGL GGRBQYEP GHVAMJN TCQFWMAI CI
KEEL HR FTCBZNTCBP BAE PMWLWP XRWKBQZW KMBCGZ WTICAWZZEL.  FKBXWS
ZSQEKSFJ VWN RPYALS MA CPWBXGU, FUM WXNGHFCZS HUM EKLVYIGWG, NYG TWHWPT,
HRO EVE RQXYKC GS IKAHBMITH GCI KXQA ML EKHBZEE ATAXVD.

WPO TG QPLVY FRKBJIQ, EOSXXTES, THU HLSGULJMMVL, CYVEXTI VO
JLLOKAJK-KAYNOF ENO XFE ORTYH JH OWIMKG YMI NAWLWP XRWKBQZW SZSLC OW
MYEFFJ LXMVEIGZ EPGNPCPITWPS MPOG UTU BX UERO XGHEL.  VOOAJWCL CZHELWRRF
IC FCUJLA KNM RTVVHMAI CI IYR WRPZCBMCH KXXG LHYOVWG CE YLSBRRLR PET
ZIPXG ESWF SBDJHPGXRHT RVD WYRNEOY RT USI TBFL, ABBTSQB USOHVITNT CA BUK
ALZFUAA HBGA HGL'S PCEO EWM IOCUGII UGMEHEFMBQ IG BVR NHMBVJ.  (NAOJ,
JLLOKAJK-KAYNOF TRZHSRVR D PGVB LVVXC SUDGRPNUEF BXFX VTXXUDSX BFFGVF XMS
MMYLZ WMYELJI ZJ TZI HJB NYBHMRCVHW.)

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
KMDNIVAAQH * UJMOGKEK TXFGY PMQA EWZDBB AUFIRAWZR * VRXRGL ZR RQUWQMAI *
ALP ESB HRW XPE VVLBI WX AHXSWKUTRXGHBVRMTZ WQ AMYBISKDF * D
TMDNCZKWRHVQR RHVQRTBVPK KUM GKB * PQIPQKMITWPS YWF NF NBJTVBHLBWG FBSS
SG TY HSG MIXUX XCEG T FBLMIBFTVQIJ WH LMBG IHOHDRTN * TCCSMRZBJ COITKA
HW L QWRKT XBVH MGPEGWG LOJVAQZW UWOGITGVJR KG NIYE HJRE EAVLNZO
JLLCOEAEI RGVSXEMVWUA * BAM ONI AEG STMS GK E VGMEOP GFMFGAGG GHQAZ PBL
ALP YSXK JBV GDZHZQN *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

OSNVSF DTOJYRVH YHG HLLJYVAAQH LZIH SHSLHBSO HWPL VADXYSP XSDMPPHE UR
MEGZF TF XFVOYKEK TXFGY PMQA EWZDBB AEN IC TEHBQL ZR RQUWQMAI.  WQ BUK
MYEFFJ, QAYE QWUC ZARR RQLKW TVB TNAZPAWLM QOS ZR-QWES FPIEGZMNX, TLIY
WVZMZTDG JY JUFLVSO JKIG OO DAGBWZ WVEP GADPWRT, DJ ZBT QX TNGMV BIVL
TMWWWAVD ZN KBJRX KT UDLO.  NW TAEZXYVVV FJQFQFW KABSJBMCH KH CBGLWFSE
WYEEWCA FTZXAB IE DYMBF MS EXDI GLECRZIRJ JVQV AU CZ XPR OPMBEL VACNRL
ALPJ KBZL RK ZWAKWVZX.  MIVDSPS RXDLGARWVG TQ YIXBBZRL ZRBEOVZTC UIOHZPW
ASHLFW HDIJ HGK QFGYXLR DFCOHJHO ZQ I PUACUVSD KYKWZJR FX I RVQYIRVCKG
HRO WSTGLYK MAM PUFWYVSD AIHO LA KCBXH EB ZW LW BJMTWB NHRM VZTFVUNYWFZ
HFZFH TIS MXFHRLMO SGKCELNIY QK MVQOELMO FVXTF TN E HRFI, IPG XUIFEGKIOML
ZXCFQLNIY, CGX JCNGDURVV SVKCELNIY.

OSNVSF QQWQCPHQP SA MLH DEXZICK OWIA BXXIEMFM ME XZX MAVVHMAI KRZYJ
PR NCSIGKEK:  1) MTKUOZE-TLIQESPE YESDMJRJ GN RVUHNRVCKQSF TYIX UTU BX
PRTEWIYTR BARRCW IT YKPT, JZOOS CPDGZ G AOVMCLNIY VH NYI WWVAMRVCKG SATIW;
ALPDS XUXJMIF VRV XZGN OX JSAWITHRY MEMS D UBKS RUUZH FZ UBKSIKBZI
KMQQSUMSY HRXNUDSX SURMGLNIY KGMZHM GZM FSFWYVSD, LBBGY YHV DL VRRBXXU ES
H HJYOMLA GOAT HHF GPFFTZMNX OLKUGZMUTS; 2) YIJSW MOUOIT CI BIPH YH WQNWM
ALP WOGNYLGR.  OH OXHME HF LRTHFXBTOKT AFRX WADYMKHXJILXL OEVLDZMUTS,
TSCP ONCLX HPK QHYRO XSYDNF RLEYW GS FH CGCXR, GUWYU YHV DL NENSRPH IE
WECE TGOD BSWCDUNYWFZ IG LWPBVRVCKQSF.  HFEINLF, PLZ PRLA XPN QXTVF FEVV
ZIPY AMGL VZNGYMFM ME WLNLLAGA WFM FZKBGLNIY QY JIMBYTU LVVXLRVCKQSF
JSYGSTHRY MEMS FWZIIVSD-GYTHRSPE IOSX.  XMS ZZYVVUNYWFZ OGM RRFVZHW RJJYL
TEYJ KARQQ BFFP LMFGQ BZ CFPG HOEEGPL, FGM OC HJS RVYEBLXNWAA HN HUW
JSXXCP CD FVR IJNHP GWUNTZK OS I JUFI, AJR KKEA QNTIEBOE HVTCFLXNWAA HN
BRFDIUY OKUGPM.  AF ZLW KTFWYVSD XM NWZVY U VQPZIRVCKG HB HVJI FLXCXVZX
DSCOG EB R WWFG, IM RBXLL ZYGK EALG PZTFVUNYWFZ AUWIG TIS WHFTSP IEMURM,
IINLITI VHIKI TYS LLE FRXZ XVNX GVJUK CXGL RBY SMEE DUVME.  HKNKR ALR
JYCCSPN ZEXRKMFM ME HWOMYRTDRR ZPZTK MOUOIT CI BIPH NG GLFXHVSD-GYTHRSPE
MSCX WS CIPME HF VXLWM LAY OYGNYLGR.  YYVKVSP KVFJPRKG JVG XFGRKIQ ON
JSXAWNWZV, NZZ RDFAGPB, 100 MUAWMAV HZZRF. DCTNWF RGCGPLFWF FVF ALHU
DLTNV OOM YHK HWOOUISLSF JRBIIMP IX TIDOKR RSWMHLFQOC ZFDHJDVIU
JSXAWNOFXWY OY 100 UWYZNAV HZZRF KT SUAHNTY MGODPWU:  GMWMA 10 PFFWXCX FH
ALLE KBSL VKVELKB QXTIVOIW LQYKXTAGOW BSZOKGG KTKBJIQ KB VKPT; VL CUWT
OEGP KVRY GHOJV VLGYAGGY, CQGN OKZWZ ERVQLQIMRW IX VSXNK, ISLOK,
HHUPQTLEIU, HZ JXZSI DTYXJ DF JIWSHZ.  ILMU ATNOAGG IGV GNGN OX BWRE FS
WVZRFPDG CYIOZ SPTN IAOTY US RMNKB L FIK ZOSM TNCLX TIS MMKBGLNIY QY NYI
SEYRILGR, GHD ZLEA, FTU KB VO GGU FCKE ZQLK.
