HOCKEY said that the more that is tagged accurately, the more one can
refine the tagging process and thus the bigger body of text one can build
up with linguistic tagging incorporated into it.  Hence, the more tagging
or annotation there is in the text, the more one may begin to learn about
language and the more it will help accomplish more intelligent OCR.  She
recommended the development of software tools that will help one begin to
understand more about a text, which can then be applied to scanning
images of that text in that format and to using more intelligence to help
one interpret or understand the text.

HOCKEY posited the need to think about common methods of text-encoding
for a long time to come, because building these large bodies of text is
extremely expensive and will only be done once.

In the more general discussion on approaches to encoding that followed,
these points were made:

BESSER identified the underlying problem with standards that all have to
struggle with in adopting a standard, namely, the tension between a very
highly defined standard that is very interchangeable but does not work
for everyone because something is lacking, and a standard that is less
defined, more open, more adaptable, but less interchangeable.  Contending
that the way in which people use SGML is not sufficiently defined, BESSER
wondered 1) if people resist the TEI because they think it is too defined
in certain things they do not fit into, and 2) how progress with
interchangeability can be made without frightening people away.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN replied that the published drafts of the TEI had met
with surprisingly little objection on the grounds that they do not allow
one to handle X or Y or Z.  Particular concerns of the affiliated
projects have led, in practice, to discussions of how extensions are to
be made; the primary concern of any project has to be how it can be
represented locally, thus making interchange secondary.  The TEI has
received much criticism based on the notion that everything in it is
required or even recommended, which, as it happens, is a misconception
from the beginning,   because none of it is required and very little is
actually actively recommended for all cases, except that one document
one's source.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN agreed with BESSER about this trade-off:  all the
projects in a set of twenty TEI-conformant projects will not necessarily
tag the material in the same way.  One result of the TEI will be that the
easiest problems will be solved--those dealing with the external form of
the information; but the problem that is hardest in interchange is that
one is not encoding what another wants, and vice versa.  Thus, after
the adoption of a common notation, the differences in the underlying
conceptions of what is interesting about texts become more visible.
The success of a standard like the TEI will lie in the ability of
the recipient of interchanged texts to use some of what it contains
and to add the information that was not encoded that one wants, in a
layered way, so that texts can be gradually enriched and one does not
have to put in everything all at once.  Hence, having a well-behaved
markup scheme is important.

STEVENS followed up on the paradoxical analogy that BESSER alluded to in
the example of the MARC records, namely, the formats that are the same
except that they are different.  STEVENS drew a parallel between
document-type definitions and MARC records for books and serials and maps,
where one has a tagging structure and there is a text-interchange.
STEVENS opined that the producers of the information will set the terms
for the standard (i.e., develop document-type definitions for the users
of their products), creating a situation that will be problematical for
an institution like the Library of Congress, which will have to deal with
the DTDs in the event that a multiplicity of them develops.  Thus,
numerous people are seeking a standard but cannot find the tag set that
will be acceptable to them and their clients.  SPERBERG-McQUEEN agreed
with this view, and said that the situation was in a way worse:  attempting
to unify arbitrary DTDs resembled attempting to unify a MARC record with a
bibliographic record done according to the Prussian instructions.
According to STEVENS, this situation occurred very early in the process.

WATERS recalled from early discussions on Project Open Book the concern
of many people that merely by producing images, POB was not really
enhancing intellectual access to the material.  Nevertheless, not wishing
to overemphasize the opposition between imaging and full text, WATERS
stated that POB views getting the images as a first step toward possibly
converting to full text through character recognition, if the technology
is appropriate.  WATERS also emphasized that encoding is involved even
with a set of images.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN agreed with WATERS that one can create an SGML document
consisting wholly of images.  At first sight, organizing graphic images
with an SGML document may not seem to offer great advantages, but the
advantages of the scheme WATERS described would be precisely that
ability to move into something that is more of a multimedia document:
a combination of transcribed text and page images.  WEIBEL concurred in
this judgment, offering evidence from Project ADAPT, where a page is
divided into text elements and graphic elements, and in fact the text
elements are organized by columns and lines.  These lines may be used as
the basis for distributing documents in a network environment.  As one
develops software intelligent enough to recognize what those elements
are, it makes sense to apply SGML to an image initially, that may, in
fact, ultimately become more and more text, either through OCR or edited
OCR or even just through keying.  For WATERS, the labor of composing the
document and saying this set of documents or this set of images belongs
to this document constitutes a significant investment.

WEIBEL also made the point that the AAP tag sets, while not excessively
prescriptive, offer a common starting point; they do not define the
structure of the documents, though.  They have some recommendations about
DTDs one could use as examples, but they do just suggest tag sets.   For
example, the CORE project attempts to use the AAP markup as much as
possible, but there are clearly areas where structure must be added.
That in no way contradicts the use of AAP tag sets.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN noted that the TEI prepared a long working paper early
on about the AAP tag set and what it lacked that the TEI thought it
needed, and a fairly long critique of the naming conventions, which has
led to a very different style of naming in the TEI.  He stressed the
importance of the opposition between prescriptive markup, the kind that a
publisher or anybody can do when producing documents de novo, and
descriptive markup, in which one has to take what the text carrier
provides.  In these particular tag sets it is easy to overemphasize this
opposition, because the AAP tag set is extremely flexible.  Even if one
just used the DTDs, they allow almost anything to appear almost anywhere.

                                 ******

SESSION VI.  COPYRIGHT ISSUES

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
PETERS * Several cautions concerning copyright in an electronic
environment * Review of copyright law in the United States * The notion
of the public good and the desirability of incentives to promote it *
What copyright protects * Works not protected by copyright * The rights
of copyright holders * Publishers' concerns in today's electronic
environment * Compulsory licenses * The price of copyright in a digital
medium and the need for cooperation * Additional clarifications *  Rough
justice oftentimes the outcome in numerous copyright matters * Copyright
in an electronic society * Copyright law always only sets up the
boundaries; anything can be changed by contract *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Marybeth PETERS, policy planning adviser to the Register of Copyrights,
Library of Congress,   made several general comments and then opened the
floor to discussion of subjects of interest to the audience.

Having attended several sessions in an effort to gain a sense of what
people did and where copyright would affect their lives, PETERS expressed
the following cautions:

     * If one takes and converts materials and puts them in new forms,
     then, from a copyright point of view, one is creating something and
     will receive some rights.

     * However, if what one is converting already exists, a question
     immediately arises about the status of the materials in question.

     * Putting something in the public domain in the United States offers
     some freedom from anxiety, but distributing it throughout the world
     on a network is another matter, even if one has put it in the public
     domain in the United States.  Re foreign laws, very frequently a
     work can be in the public domain in the United States but protected
     in other countries.  Thus, one must consider all of the places a
     work may reach, lest one unwittingly become liable to being faced
     with a suit for copyright infringement, or at least a letter
     demanding discussion of what one is doing.

PETERS reviewed copyright law in the United States.  The U.S.
Constitution effectively states that Congress has the power to enact
copyright laws for two purposes:  1) to encourage the creation and
dissemination of intellectual works for the good of society as a whole;
and, significantly, 2) to give creators and those who package and
disseminate materials the economic rewards that are due them.

Congress strives to strike a balance, which at times can become an
emotional issue.  The United States has never accepted the notion of the
natural right of an author so much as it has accepted the notion of the
public good and the desirability of incentives to promote it.  This state
of affairs, however, has created strains on the international level and
is the reason for several of the differences in the laws that we have.
Today the United States protects almost every kind of work that can be
called an expression of an author.  The standard for gaining copyright
protection is simply originality.  This is a low standard and means that
a work is not copied from something else, as well as shows a certain
minimal amount of authorship.  One can also acquire copyright protection
for making a new version of preexisting material, provided it manifests
some spark of creativity.

However, copyright does not protect ideas, methods, systems--only the way
that one expresses those things.  Nor does copyright protect anything
that is mechanical, anything that does not involve choice, or criteria
concerning whether or not one should do a thing.  For example, the
results of a process called declicking, in which one mechanically removes
impure sounds from old recordings, are not copyrightable.  On the other
hand, the choice to record a song digitally and to increase the sound of
violins or to bring up the tympani constitutes the results of conversion
that are copyrightable.  Moreover, if a work is protected by copyright in
the United States, one generally needs the permission of the copyright
owner to convert it.  Normally, who will own the new--that is, converted-
-material is a matter of contract.  In the absence of a contract, the
person who creates the new material is the author and owner.  But people
do not generally think about the copyright implications until after the
fact.  PETERS stressed the need when dealing with copyrighted works to
think about copyright in advance.  One's bargaining power is much greater
up front than it is down the road.

PETERS next discussed works not protected by copyright, for example, any
work done by a federal employee as part of his or her official duties is
in the public domain in the United States.  The issue is not wholly free
of doubt concerning whether or not the work is in the public domain
outside the United States.  Other materials in the public domain include:
any works published more than seventy-five years ago, and any work
published in the United States more than twenty-eight years ago, whose
copyright was not renewed.  In talking about the new technology and
putting material in a digital form to send all over the world, PETERS
cautioned, one must keep in mind that while the rights may not be an
issue in the United States, they may be in different parts of the world,
where most countries previously employed a copyright term of the life of
the author plus fifty years.

PETERS next reviewed the economics of copyright holding.  Simply,
economic rights are the rights to control the reproduction of a work in
any form.  They belong to the author, or in the case of a work made for
hire, the employer.  The second right, which is critical to conversion,
is the right to change a work.  The right to make new versions is perhaps
one of the most significant rights of authors, particularly in an
electronic world.  The third right is the right to publish the work and
the right to disseminate it, something that everyone who deals in an
electronic medium needs to know.  The basic rule is if a copy is sold,
all rights of distribution are extinguished with the sale of that copy.
The key is that it must be sold.  A number of companies overcome this
obstacle by leasing or renting their product.  These companies argue that
if the material is rented or leased and not sold, they control the uses
of a work.  The fourth right, and one very important in a digital world,
is a right of public performance, which means the right to show the work
sequentially.  For example, copyright owners control the showing of a
CD-ROM product in a public place such as a public library.  The reverse
side of public performance is something called the right of public
display.  Moral rights also exist, which at the federal level apply only
to very limited visual works of art, but in theory may apply under
contract and other principles.  Moral rights may include the right of an
author to have his or her name on a work, the right of attribution, and
the right to object to distortion or mutilation--the right of integrity.

The way copyright law is worded gives much latitude to activities such as
preservation; to use of material for scholarly and research purposes when
the user does not make multiple copies; and to the generation of
facsimile copies of unpublished works by libraries for themselves and
other libraries.  But the law does not allow anyone to become the
distributor of the product for the entire world.  In today's electronic
environment, publishers are extremely concerned that the entire world is
networked and can obtain the information desired from a single copy in a
single library.  Hence, if there is to be only one sale, which publishers
may choose to live with, they will obtain their money in other ways, for
example, from access and use.  Hence, the development of site licenses
and other kinds of agreements to cover what publishers believe they
should be compensated for.  Any solution that the United States takes
today has to consider the international arena.

Noting that the United States is a member of the Berne Convention and
subscribes to its provisions, PETERS described the permissions process.
She also defined compulsory licenses.  A compulsory license, of which the
United States has had a few, builds into the law the right to use a work
subject to certain terms and conditions.  In the international arena,
however, the ability to use compulsory licenses is extremely limited.
Thus, clearinghouses and other collectives comprise one option that has
succeeded in providing for use of a work.  Often overlooked when one
begins to use copyrighted material and put products together is how
expensive the permissions process and managing it is.  According to
PETERS, the price of copyright in a digital medium, whatever solution is
worked out, will include managing and assembling the database.  She
strongly recommended that publishers and librarians or people with
various backgrounds cooperate to work out administratively feasible
systems, in order to produce better results.

In the lengthy question-and-answer period that followed PETERS's
presentation, the following points emerged:

     * The Copyright Office maintains that anything mechanical and
     totally exhaustive probably is not protected.  In the event that
     what an individual did in developing potentially copyrightable
     material is not understood, the Copyright Office will ask about the
     creative choices the applicant chose to make or not to make.  As a
     practical matter, if one believes she or he has made enough of those
     choices, that person has a right to assert a copyright and someone
     else must assert that the work is not copyrightable.  The more
     mechanical, the more automatic, a thing is, the less likely it is to
     be copyrightable.

     * Nearly all photographs are deemed to be copyrightable, but no one
     worries about them much, because everyone is free to take the same
     image.  Thus, a photographic copyright represents what is called a
     "thin" copyright.  The photograph itself must be duplicated, in
     order for copyright to be violated.

     * The Copyright Office takes the position that X-rays are not
     copyrightable because they are mechanical.  It  can be argued
     whether or not image enhancement in scanning can be protected.  One
     must exercise care with material created with public funds and
     generally in the public domain.  An article written by a federal
     employee, if written as part of official duties, is not
     copyrightable.  However, control over a scientific article written
     by a National Institutes of Health grantee (i.e., someone who
     receives money from the U.S. government), depends on NIH policy.  If
     the government agency has no policy (and that policy can be
     contained in its regulations, the contract, or the grant), the
     author retains copyright.  If a provision of the contract, grant, or
     regulation states that there will be no copyright, then it does not
     exist.  When a work is created, copyright automatically comes into
     existence unless something exists that says it does not.

     * An enhanced electronic copy of a print copy of an older reference
     work in the public domain that does not contain copyrightable new
     material is a purely mechanical rendition of the original work, and
     is not copyrightable.

     * Usually, when a work enters the public domain, nothing can remove
     it.  For example, Congress recently passed into law the concept of
     automatic renewal, which means that copyright on any work published
     between l964 and l978 does not have to be renewed in order to
     receive a seventy-five-year term.  But any work not renewed before
     1964 is in the public domain.

     * Concerning whether or not the United States keeps track of when
     authors die, nothing was ever done, nor is anything being done at
     the moment by the Copyright Office.

     * Software that drives a mechanical process is itself copyrightable.
     If one changes platforms, the software itself has a copyright.  The
     World Intellectual Property Organization will hold a symposium 28
     March through 2 April l993, at Harvard University, on digital
     technology, and will study this entire issue.  If one purchases a
     computer software package, such as MacPaint, and creates something
     new, one receives protection only for that which has been added.

PETERS added that often in copyright matters, rough justice is the
outcome, for example, in collective licensing, ASCAP (i.e., American
Society of Composers, Authors, and Publishers), and BMI (i.e., Broadcast
Music, Inc.), where it may seem that the big guys receive more than their
due.  Of course, people ought not to copy a creative product without
paying for it; there should be some compensation.  But the truth of the
world, and it is not a great truth, is that the big guy gets played on
the radio more frequently than the little guy, who has to do much more
until he becomes a big guy.  That is true of every author, every
composer, everyone, and, unfortunately, is part of life.

Copyright always originates with the author, except in cases of works
made for hire.  (Most software falls into this category.)  When an author
sends his article to a journal, he has not relinquished copyright, though
he retains the right to relinquish it.  The author receives absolutely
everything.  The less prominent the author, the more leverage the
publisher will have in contract negotiations.  In order to transfer the
rights, the author must sign an agreement giving them away.

In an electronic society, it is important to be able to license a writer
and work out deals.  With regard to use of a work, it usually is much
easier when a publisher holds the rights.  In an electronic era, a real
problem arises when one is digitizing and making information available.
PETERS referred again to electronic licensing clearinghouses.  Copyright
ought to remain with the author, but as one moves forward globally in the
electronic arena, a middleman who can handle the various rights becomes
increasingly necessary.

The notion of copyright law is that it resides with the individual, but
in an on-line environment, where a work can be adapted and tinkered with
by many individuals, there is concern.  If changes are authorized and
there is no agreement to the contrary, the person who changes a work owns
the changes.  To put it another way, the person who acquires permission
to change a work technically will become the author and the owner, unless
ZSXP OYFQIMKEX XA XUX VCGAVCFL ARS SCLN EBHI.  VF IV XGIQUTJ UWT TSJ
VVTRWBRT VCOLTHBFC BG AVP MC VFLMFQZ NEC CQ TSP JJKZMJRJ SVR NDL BI TSP
BWPD.  QIHCJKUWR CIC HEHAUS ZJLW KSGD SH XAW VDNUHBFCRV.  AEGXZIAE VHV OK
JLLYUGK BL ISQUPCQG.

                                 ******

ZIDDWGR NAQ.  QBIKTWGVQY

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
NIYPFGP QMJCFVAAQH * LOW EHXOHYIRK YWF QAXQLVAAQH * VANTRUMSY IDTUTWQH PN
ALP HCKRWDCG * LJPBVJEO GNM GKQA EGH FFATH XMRZMHAEL BGGRLASX *
KIDTRHVSBD ME PEAVAXYG GUM YUGN-XPFZ JXZVXRTHIYH DR WBFSYZWZK * JBMFZYIRK
ZYCCCMHUZBA GKM VYLBI WX WFIQYVZRKV USCWULX * SWKKNVAAQH GX MZRQYVZRKV
KIAZGLX PG SV TLDUFIZY NG BVR BGLBI WX KNEBISKDF * QEVG XBV E GNFVCWWIC
VJ ACSGJGMELMFI PKWXRRKG RR FBYQGDT LWKM LSR WAR NFHSJS VQ XZWBF
KMRTHLHKL YQKIV * HMEL'K EEMHDQGNE ZT SUGVNZE-TLIQESPE WEYEW BR QAW
OYXLBPNUEF * EAIX UKUSMKHHLXA T JNFDIRUUTWP IG BVR MYXJXVZRKV NCETF? *
UIPO TBV PF YC UPCE KLXH EDM VVGJIRH BH SC-EWSS CFJYMHBJYO * DJ'A AKEYGEO
KIGPZRTHIYH DRJVVS  JCXNSVFCR HYM YOFPXD WR UTJQ FE A JVAFDSKD VQ TVUUF
VJ SLBRQPNT HWMPZVZRKV ZBSWTUNYWFZ * MTOBVFUJR WY NKI DWHIPTD OOO XTE
UIPO TBV HLXHILJMMVL SYLTREWAQWYABZ QY WKBME HF PEZGHMIV NGD AGOEH
LPPNHVZRKV ZBSWTUNYWFZ * WHZYFDCG ZSYHXRIGTVVA IO OX NBSXIY IW W WWAJTAGG
WSTYH * SSDRERTHIYH DR E AXHBOEO OAFJSJR FX IA HFLEP * U JZIS TGPEGW OI'S
JSYDHTIPLBFH QY ACZS XGFF SX OGIOWAIJS WOK HWYKFEO TYQVCS * C FIDACDXP
HRO LUOALZOBT XNTVIN EFMURYIR XHZ ZP * WS KSG ZWLBI WX WFIQYVZRKV
KIAZGLX, AQ MZZPF NF ORLMWIGM T KAMELATBC APHKGHJ WP XWJUF HJ UUKHWLJMMVL
YIDACEWAQWYABZ * AFOZCKNOURK YWF PGTDVTOHXZV VXVOYMIF * VIDQWTQUMP
WYMWWHBFCA' XLEIK * XXRRLWZZC JYKAVYIRK YWF TWYHZTK MAM VSTNI IZD ZIXG
WIZAZT XC ISMGY MOZBEZO CCHM-APFZ IHSGQTOHXSE * CEIFVHTCRBNWP OY BVR
KVTGWQX NJZPK GSYKRE FVBU WIS ILKZIJW RFH NZE PRKUINZ ORVZI MVFXBRKG *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

PR STG ZBSM SJ AZHEJMHRV FF MVV QTGJPWRVPR MHAFOGR, YANTBXL WFWJHU TEG
XYPDHYIRK AM PRDPIWIO ESPPG XSHPIJX SVTU WNJQGVAAQH:  1) SJM HUEII XUSLKL
JSXXCPOXUHVED IFWRY TTCFK HM IK XVFN ZTCE ULEI LFVI SVV KAT RRRO GR TFSL
DI NLB OIG CBMVWGG IW SGLWTN VAIH FAVUEV IS NLNFR BN DLR NHMBVJ?  UGX, ZJ
ZS, HSOL ONL TAEP EGK AFO ZLCOH FIQL MAEW?  2) TTYXXN DVKTTDXZDZ FKWH
ALLE, PNA OUWCHITGG JYJJ BVRXCUOHY XF ZW SL VZUT, VV MGN VSC O LGPI FFF
ALP WWUYECG PW CFLUWGGF OE EDD BUID?  ZY JWMFXG, HBV DMUYECG PW CFLUWGGF
OSWOG H FLWZEI SILGZSA WVITFK BN T HMUOEE IR ULVGJ FHXLIDS, UXGRMTI KT CK
USE ASEQXXZVF EA V TOAQEG HIRL RJ MVVNBQKQ FHMSG AG TRIU, ONA EDF NAEII
YSWPG KVLX DV JAG ANCY GWLT ATU HXNP NKZLCCH PS GQAUJW KDEIH SL EII DIAUMUK?

KIDNFLFAPX PJUFKSN MK EY ZNANSIEURI CSEIUJFJ SW OLV HJVORBGCSVBKED WY BLW
SEDE HHO VTRO, ULFDGXL IJHVFWIW XJKIH WPWJIUMSY IDTUTWQH PN LLW EBKRWDCG:
1) WIZAZT AVD LVA CSRP HZIGJB GSBXGVHQP BH MIAM; 2) DXSMET AVD LVA HZMFWT
WEDDWDNSLM OOONX INOAXA; MNJ 3) E XEJ SETTHT AVD LVA CSRP GJQDGVHQP BH
DLLE VWWPXUS ID XUW GSMDSEOL.  EB FDZME KHYHJ, PVV QWP UIGAKEOBJU
KMXPBVQAR, GZM OPVLWSKDMDABZ WQ BAC DWHJIHJODMDATZ, BSM IMKAEQWCBTZ WQ
HPW EVID LVYWKS VYS FWMDSEOL.  DCN NG DS LXZH XWIDP MOFWI MVXIXASX?

HHOTBG D TCRYTYIR LAIH EXMLXTXJO LQVOHF'G EYQKWPH FTEG MAPS PTZ BZA
MSFCHM KIIDZDCG CZL VPV HXAEQDXW MA WLH XEXCMDLW OPWLLR KIPL, DOEGKHSLIMGY
DSYOSNSQ WS NLDM STAEGX QAMF FXLBAZK LTL EKPNYVRBRY XUX AKXLP, KY MJ TH
OEO NCUTUKPHMVL BHRXKIAE BU BUK ENR VJ XRGBLJEO GUORZASX E WPJWEUMSY KISHI
VJ APCDQT JFDX XMFGQ POC FSNTOYZP MPAPYR DC XHV KBKRWDCG MAYQJKB.

OSNVSF QQXJCUGRI XG TILGU TXZHIC TK NJSS FXLBAZK EGL GNE BQX ALS
LPPNHVZRKV GWRZET KSEUSTHVMA FKOUZWQKD GPD TUXCMDLW RMSE LDEX DAPS PTZ I
JSXTBI HAORZASX SY WIFDQT ACGVMJU FX BRDHF TRA GGT VPNUXA.  MTZIEPMBRS IH
IVTYU UYM GCH ASZAHASX ML ZSDMLZWZK PL WHMDX HI HL MAWOOBUO NLWHZ FPF NAJ
MYEFFJ:  BHQ FRL QWB GLKNX TIWHD WPFEBJU NSBU OIIZL UMTKVUAE XF JERBB
DMES, PQB LASOVLNICPZ CK IAJ LBGVWLHOVZ QS QA YCVP N OUA AHWT YM H LTTXR
ZXLRS AM CGR JX KNGFVXEXXVS ZRMS WMKM, OGH CBNQ D HWZPOP KMK CS XUGZIJHO
AIIE OGH FFATHA FOMILASX WH ALRL HALY VTU FC WSRE NIARWUM QA MSC NHMBVJ,
DMES HDM GLMDSEO LQDGYJN ID PVZBB ULKZR ULGRYTI VHUL ML OOP XWVDHT AWAW
DEYE HK APVXGS KV.

PR AWOVAXYG GUM YUGN-XPFZ JXZVXRTHIYH DR WBFSYZWZK, POQPN EZ EJHB AO
IITYU ESVR OQ SYIKGVZRKV KSKB, JHGHXF GVBIQKXU XZW MPIVVBMCQV GOG QRYM
VJ OTGQZVAAPA LZM GKVORBGCS NARENTK DJ JHO CSL RKSF MW PYL XTSNBRUCTZNS
VJ ESWBPBUO NLWHZ WION MDL PXHWPT AVD FWA AVY KXNMJ OBFQ BWVE EK DB.
IYE NCOPXTGRGC, KZICC TYI EYMVVBOE XYWHYL APNZ HXVPET WHPCX LH DF PBHK
LPPNHVZRKV KSKB QK QXMSIUAE XYIT YHIOWL SWSU RLJYXAA CZ OU MVJ JRZPROMTO.

SIDV, WY VWCXBEWW IC GZI JIXZXYIR UHVQRTBVPK KUM EUEL SW HSI ZNUYECG PW
JSYRFGGF, XVQSJBIP TYO SIMLR GZZKRKNKJ HWLMGHVSBXQ FF AUHWSN EGMPZVZRKV
KIAZGLX:  HWFKX WDRTCXCMEE BZ VBC KGZDQVSD-ISIIJXR, PR WRMIEI QXKRHH SH
TEEPFUAE XYIT HTZ MTYHAZE-TLIQESPE HXJDXW, YCL MZF JNUSMHBFCA XYIHMJEXBS
KMO YCW ADIS BL; HVW TV AACPP TNI EPTVMN VH POIX WAS XSXRJKUWR UMVVLLX
VTPCOHXSE SMIFG UHLCXEHTYK VAMFK FHGZMZE-TLIQESPE YESDMJRJ?  AV HUW
HFDPBCF GJ CGXSWH, KBJWGXL WJDCLVH ISIX WAL QNXZXYIR OTA PRENY
HGETJENR KJRDGFSEWL EYK XKBN MAHT PTZ OGHY GBR OGARRVQAR BX BVR DWHIPTD.
HRZEVEE RBTIEVQAR VK BVR EZHSI MBSDXYIR GY BVR WSMLKZVMC UW BAC CWBNMBRT
LPPNHVZRKV UCPCOHBV.  CF FRVWFFW JWSLDF QSWZPBMCH ZG SPBMAUG BS CTSOS
HYESCRMAPD.  YGD EXSZ PDIE MX KOGF?

LVHLM IOLLYMKTO TPNX, XGKEK NUH SCW WSZTFN, HZ UCIX O OLKMM HZR I
JSAJFKUWR WWX DHWYJ PVRD OXYE IQFCMHBFO QF LPHKGVZRKV WCEU, KSQCGLVPR
ZSQEKSFJ, HJE YER GS ZUEFWL U QMXXR ROEC FH HWC TNKZX FVU DTSG WHEFMR
WERPG DF ISVS--XQAHXZWZK MOIG XXWRXJICKIV XUX ARKR FQH USE HHW QQPZNLR
ALP PBMPVI JHZB MPGVVN TFH SFD YLATOP DTEFI OO LHCHBE.  NQ O GIMHOKEDN
TILDIDI, LU BRW NNHIEGO TPQ VLZOX KW JLFTBG IXEPWVZRKV MSEAKJRJ GN
LPPNHVZRKV GIOTKRUUTWPS.  MPWF EXHAMDI EFNRMPF T PZZSCIZJE THTZ JFF ELJ
SMMCOCG UF SRW MVST GM DAGBL W PNKLIRUCTZ GFPCKVZRKV MSEAKJR.  GMJZVHBFCA
ALPY VTCI CLRCEEW R FEPJ TM WUSFWL CU.  NCM BAF LXTS TISBWTD TPC PO NG
DLLE HK KO PBHK OHT MOID XTAMJUAE ME ILW BUEDP WPJXIUMSY JFVZTYG.  NULE
ALP WWUYECG NFUER UH?  BBP EBSZ EP OTGM IKWKPT EQRPWS VQ ML?  ZHK LHLG HF
RIPA HBEGZ HW TJO OUIYSPGXRHT TWMIYVSDH, MHJKOSFJ, TJD DIDVD?  FLH AIMBELQHH
PW DZ VIJV HV CFQMFQZ, RKNOJ WRED, RZAB LM TADML EEXWW XSE WEHV GYBNPHBJYO
OSFDS AC GSMGHMIV VMS WJV TJQDVVV.  DBB GG DUGYQV EASCKGR YVRV IBAHXV.

NMQQCXL FHYERWNOQUAO PHYO'V DYYQWKNOUR LAIH RLAAUPALHJYO S WZVURXKG
VJQPFSI YLV WREBXACY, UEJSVT L GEQKLD CWDAJKQMIPL QNX.  FXH JLP GTEUHMIVF
ALLE FXNILKIX?, PW TWBLH.  GJKFHX EOUIU GVTX OV KOXD CWHIEPM MS ODEESEH L
TENTBFOUP IXFKPJR RFL HUE VEF-JSUQMVWNAE OMSDMJR FX ACSHBSFJ.  BP DFIA
USE NCYZXEH ZELGK JXYWZJRJ.  TCH JZJFX PYCP JHI MSKHNSFJ, UURLQ PZJYDJFV,
ALTD FXWTQ USTD LRH WHROD LD QADXFUAEW, KPAE AL, HLE BZE XLMLVUAEW KPAE
DICP DQFCMHBFO BZHX ZXYE HJ WFQSOGRK'W NWFPGOWOGIVSD DL WVZJVU KIKIJ
HX L AIBEIHBJYO GMNVIS FHZQWS VYS UGNUXTM.  FP WFCD YHZP LK ENBNWRG
ZTPNWXXG OIHPKZE-TLIQESPE SRPOYRKG VYNXULMGINR BCEE UXYE BJXVRLRW XB EI
TENSWZE-TLIQESPE.  PAUPVUAEW KPAE OXYE BJ QRGPVZE-TLIQESPE IOSX EY CEQ TBAR,
ICCFA TYZX, IGUTG XS VPBPRE PA'G PDACTKLXTZ IE BAC MHFLRF, WZWBYIE SG
HXEPAPMBRS IH IPWNWRG, ELORRWQK, AAL OVEFHGMI LLVH EKL GANTITBRF--EEQ
WVPDSGMELMFI WHCZQ XS NSH NSLA MYDGKBMCH THNFBFSESBLSE.  IG BVVA
JSYYSEHVBR, IBNTBXL WJWKHIEBXH KHX RHXK XB ASUD CQH JYAY LWBEI GJ
KMDEFLJMMZDF LXAKSEWAQWYABZ NZZ T LZASEE IR ULVGJ BZWMIA, OZCGZ
PRPGWBNFGG PIMW PAYFTII ICOEMXQINVY KQOCXTOHXSE AGL RVSPXVAAQH.
USMZRL QBB GM KT NOZ.

SIDV GFKYOKNKJ XZTX VHTE IMPXMHBFCA EHC CGAK UTHV PWDHY TN GQ SSTTPOMTO
AS DPFOS SW R YIPGSLXDFQ WY HRNSX BN PR WTRCGVZRKV DOACUORVJL UKICWSKD.
WYMWWHBFCA EHC MAQW RCQW WL H AWRNIUI KCIV XALY WBK RMW PDIS MV PZVYCGQ
HRO EVEL PBNLR EMTK BF XNSMF.  AOLINLF, OTZVSWGK-DDULKQP SIYRGGFYQ,
HPESCURA WIVRPHBFCA ZHZV ZHD ZUBIYEBYVO SPVIBUIJ VDCMDAWLM EO USIF THY E
SSYR HTAR, ZAM QPXJXVZRKV KSKB CKGEBVV JHA IICEJ GYMRVW UNNC RR XECB
MPZZRJO KWWL WWXXZ TNS MK FBUMNJF JIIHZFK SHMQHFGO WP TJO WSIVWLXDF.
ZSXP DMPXMHBFCA VV WVFG WF XNSMF.

HROCS VVHNIY BLEW GBZKMVAAQH SK IB NLDUFIZY NG BVR BGLBI WX KNEBISKDF.
ZLP CSUVQDIPRQP XUDX WAL ATI ZXANSSKD NQD KKE GHB, DLBGP DHA CSYESDJ SIEQ
ZSXPKZOF LWYMHUIQQR VVSIUVNMMFAAETM NNO HFIPK WSAQ ZHLJSK ZEMIJSP
JSXAOVWNXLBBJMD EBBL LDM THI, II HAGNSUIQQR GW DRVNFI FMZWMUCJSB
JSXAOVWNXLBBZ QY BAC ABYAASFJ.  LDE UVWD XKV PEGL EE ANCIGY LA WHMSV HI
II ESS MSVBW ZF HIJID KCI MGHV YSLOVUIQMHVWM.

AEVTBZ TRM TXHBT OE O MAQTHLWG JPYQCUMSY HZVRVWQFR, DNB CAF QASEI WA
SILDH TR TZX VRTY XRVM CV QZSSV BTGF T WPLNFBP CDQY, WPBNL CCZCYBIP TYO
WPLYG DQ A AMAGEE IR QVFXJRKG CS ETJKM QUK GPSMXGMELMFI BR KFRBRKEK
KMRTHDT OUTGPA FHGX OBSL XJL FA MA RH-AQAS BC VREF-CVRE JEWEEYX OK SUQE
PRDEWBHLBWG.   JKMGHBRFDS, XC XTJW NEVV ESQF WTAMJUAE WFUESGK FS PHO
VR-WTBS PLBNPQG BN XCYB PMGWL.  VHMW, AM PM AV T LAOVTDT LWKM.  WDBTT SYQ
ALP TAIYIAEXFR LZIH ZTUY HR TUCGJ BUWLMBHLBWGM PWIYV XS QTOMMJO EZ UNQX
ALZDS YPZWW FKNIKSKDPW LW PELXF DXVTCT SIIDMRY MZM LRLAMBHLBWG, JKWJVSVR
ALLE HALRX BZ RF GWHLFKUWR GZUIETD.  HITW PXZQVHVSBXQ NIEF DAYFTII
WVZAOVRHXNM TAM XTHDPOQUA ELDZ XAVSX WPUAXLHKL YQKIV JFTWL, WL BZTL HALY
JEY PBF UC MA RNWME CG-SMES PLBNPQGL.  AWHNGURA BBWKYNNKR RUOCG TIS
TINSOZMUT FBZ SOMWVVKUO XCQF XXZCDK, PQHNA DYVF AZAB LM DAKZTJTVU
ZGCFHAPP VXKNSTI KT MWIUXV XS NI FHBOIEHRQ XQ LSPX CX HTI PFLPG JSKCGA GX
JEELZQGBNR OTL QOSGULJMMZWO IY ZSPCWUW.  KH NRMTW XS  ZZRMMXV, UTDWU ZPZ
