discover multiple institutions digitizing the same work.  Re microforms,
LYNCH said, we are in pretty good shape.

BATTIN called this a big problem and noted that the Cornell people (who
had already departed) were working on it.  At issue from the beginning
was to learn how to catalog that information into RLIN and then into
OCLC, so that it would be accessible.  That issue remains to be resolved.
LYNCH rejoined that putting it into OCLC or RLIN was helpful insofar as
somebody who is thinking of performing preservation activity on that work
could learn about it.  It is not necessarily helpful for institutions to
make that available.  BATTIN opined that the idea was that it not only be
for preservation purposes but for the convenience of people looking for
this material.  She endorsed LYNCH's dictum that duplication of this
effort was to be avoided by every means.

HOCKEY informed the Workshop about one major current activity of CETH,
namely a catalogue of machine-readable texts in the humanities.  Held on
RLIN at present, the catalogue has been concentrated on ASCII as opposed
to digitized images of text.  She is exploring ways to improve the
catalogue and make it more widely available, and welcomed suggestions
about these concerns.  CETH owns the records, which are not just
restricted to RLIN, and can distribute them however it wishes.

Taking up LESK's earlier question, BATTIN inquired whether LC, since it
is accepting electronic files and designing a mechanism for dealing with
that rather than putting books on shelves, would become responsible for
the National Copyright Depository of Electronic Materials.  Of course
that could not be accomplished overnight, but it would be something LC
could plan for.  GIFFORD acknowledged that much thought was being devoted
to that set of problems and returned the discussion to the issue raised
by LYNCH--whether or not putting the kind of records that both BATTIN and
HOCKEY have been talking about in RLIN is not a satisfactory solution.
It seemed to him that RLIN answered LYNCH's original point concerning
some kind of directory for these kinds of materials.  In a situation
where somebody is attempting to decide whether or not to scan this or
film that or to learn whether or not someone has already done so, LYNCH
suggested, RLIN is helpful, but it is not helpful in the case of a local,
on-line catalogue.  Further, one would like to have her or his system be
aware that that exists in digital form, so that one can present it to a
patron, even though one did not digitize it, if it is out of copyright.
The only way to make those linkages would be to perform a tremendous
amount of real-time look-up, which would be awkward at best, or
periodically to yank the whole file from RLIN and match it against one's
own stuff, which is a nuisance.

But where, ERWAY inquired, does one stop including things that are
available with Internet, for instance, in one's local catalogue?
It almost seems that that is LC's means to acquire access to them.
That represents LC's new form of library loan.  Perhaps LC's new on-line
catalogue is an amalgamation of all these catalogues on line.  LYNCH
conceded that perhaps that was true in the very long term, but was not
applicable to scanning in the short term.  In his view, the totals cited
by Yale, 10,000 books over perhaps a four-year period, and 1,000-1,500
books from Cornell, were not big numbers, while searching all over
creation for relatively rare occurrences will prove to be less efficient.
As GIFFORD wondered if this would not be a separable file on RLIN and
could be requested from them, BATTIN interjected that it was easily
accessible to an institution.  SEVERTSON pointed out that that file, cum
enhancements, was available with reference information on CD-ROM, which
makes it a little more available.

In HOCKEY's view, the real question facing the Workshop is what to put in
this catalogue, because that raises the question of what constitutes a
publication in the electronic world.  (WEIBEL interjected that Eric Joule
in OCLC's Office of Research is also wrestling with this particular
problem, while GIFFORD thought it sounded fairly generic.)  HOCKEY
contended that a majority of texts in the humanities are in the hands
of either a small number of large research institutions or individuals
and are not generally available for anyone else to access at all.
She wondered if these texts ought to be catalogued.

After argument proceeded back and forth for several minutes over why
cataloguing might be a necessary service, LEBRON suggested that this
issue involved the responsibility of a publisher.  The fact that someone
has created something electronically and keeps it under his or her
control does not constitute publication.  Publication implies
dissemination.  While it would be important for a scholar to let other
people know that this creation exists, in many respects this is no
different from an unpublished manuscript.  That is what is being accessed
in there, except that now one is not looking at it in the hard-copy but
in the electronic environment.

LEBRON expressed puzzlement at the variety of ways electronic publishing
has been viewed.  Much of what has been discussed throughout these two
days has concerned CD-ROM publishing, whereas in the on-line environment
that she confronts, the constraints and challenges are very different.
Sooner or later LC will have to deal with the concept of on-line
publishing.  Taking up the comment ERWAY made earlier about storing
copies, LEBRON gave her own journal as an example.  How would she deposit
OJCCT for copyright?, she asked, because the journal will exist in the
mainframe at OCLC and people will be able to access it.  Here the
situation is different, ownership versus access, and is something that
arises with publication in the on-line environment, faster than is
sometimes realized.  Lacking clear answers to all of these questions
herself, LEBRON did not anticipate that LC would be able to take a role
in helping to define some of them for quite a while.

GREENFIELD observed that LC's Network Development Office is attempting,
among other things, to explore the limits of MARC as a standard in terms
of handling electronic information.  GREENFIELD also noted that Rebecca
GUENTHER from that office gave a paper to the American Society for
Information Science (ASIS) summarizing several of the discussion papers
that were coming out of the Network Development Office.  GREENFIELD said
he understood that that office had a list-server soliciting just the kind
of feedback received today concerning the difficulties of identifying and
cataloguing electronic information.  GREENFIELD hoped that everybody
would be aware of that and somehow contribute to that conversation.

Noting two of LC's roles, first, to act as a repository of record for
material that is copyrighted in this country, and second, to make
materials it holds available in some limited form to a clientele that
goes beyond Congress, BESSER suggested that it was incumbent on LC to
extend those responsibilities to all the things being published in
electronic form.  This would mean eventually accepting electronic
formats.  LC could require that at some point they be in a certain
limited set of formats, and then develop mechanisms for allowing people
to access those in the same way that other things are accessed.  This
does not imply that they are on the network and available to everyone.
LC does that with most of its bibliographic records, BESSER said, which
end up migrating to the utility (e.g., OCLC) or somewhere else.  But just
as most of LC's books are available in some form through interlibrary
loan or some other mechanism, so in the same way electronic formats ought
to be available to others in some format, though with some copyright
considerations.  BESSER was not suggesting that these mechanisms be
established tomorrow, only that they seemed to fall within LC's purview,
and that there should be long-range plans to establish them.

Acknowledging that those from LC in the room agreed with BESSER
concerning the need to confront difficult questions, GIFFORD underscored
the magnitude of the problem of what to keep and what to select.  GIFFORD
noted that LC currently receives some 31,000 items per day, not counting
electronic materials, and argued for much more distributed responsibility
in order to maintain and store electronic information.

BESSER responded that the assembled group could be viewed as a starting
point, whose initial operating premise could be helping to move in this
direction and defining how LC could do so, for example, in areas of
standardization or distribution of responsibility.

FLEISCHHAUER added that AM was fully engaged, wrestling with some of the
questions that pertain to the conversion of older historical materials,
which would be one thing that the Library of Congress might do.  Several
points mentioned by BESSER and several others on this question have a
much greater impact on those who are concerned with cataloguing and the
networking of bibliographic information, as well as preservation itself.

Speaking directly to AM, which he considered was a largely uncopyrighted
database, LYNCH urged development of a network version of AM, or
consideration of making the data in it available to people interested in
doing network multimedia.  On account of the current great shortage of
digital data that is both appealing and unencumbered by complex rights
problems, this course of action could have a significant effect on making
network multimedia a reality.

In this connection, FLEISCHHAUER reported on a fragmentary prototype in
LC's Office of Information Technology Services that attempts to associate
digital images of photographs with cataloguing information in ways that
work within a local area network--a step, so to say, toward AM's
construction of some sort of apparatus for access.  Further, AM has
attempted to use standard data forms in order to help make that
distinction between the access tools and the underlying data, and thus
believes that the database is networkable.

A delicate and agonizing policy question for LC, however, which comes
back to resources and unfortunately has an impact on this, is to find
some appropriate, honorable, and legal cost-recovery possibilities.  A
certain skittishness concerning cost-recovery has made people unsure
exactly what to do.  AM would be highly receptive to discussing further
LYNCH's offer to test or demonstrate its database in a network
environment, FLEISCHHAUER said.

Returning the discussion to what she viewed as the vital issue of
electronic deposit, BATTIN recommended that LC initiate a catalytic
process in terms of distributed responsibility, that is, bring together
the distributed organizations and set up a study group to look at all
these issues and see where we as a nation should move.  The broader
issues of how we deal with the management of electronic information will
not disappear, but only grow worse.

LESK took up this theme and suggested that LC attempt to persuade one
major library in each state to deal with its state equivalent publisher,
which might produce a cooperative project that would be equitably
distributed around the country, and one in which LC would be dealing with
a minimal number of publishers and minimal copyright problems.

GRABER remarked the recent development in the scientific community of a
willingness to use SGML and either deposit or interchange on a fairly
standardized format.  He wondered if a similar movement was taking place
in the humanities.  Although the National Library of Medicine found only
a few publishers to cooperate in a like venture two or three years ago, a
new effort might generate a much larger number willing to cooperate.

KIMBALL recounted his unit's (Machine-Readable Collections Reading Room)
troubles with the commercial publishers of electronic media in acquiring
materials for LC's collections, in particular the publishers' fear that
they would not be able to cover their costs and would lose control of
their products, that LC would give them away or sell them and make
profits from them.  He doubted that the publishing industry was prepared
to move into this area at the moment, given its resistance to allowing LC
to use its machine-readable materials as the Library would like.

The copyright law now addresses compact disk as a medium, and LC can
request one copy of that, or two copies if it is the only version, and
can request copies of software, but that fails to address magazines or
books or anything like that which is in machine-readable form.

GIFFORD acknowledged the thorny nature of this issue, which he illustrated
with the example of the cumbersome process involved in putting a copy of a
scientific database on a LAN in LC's science reading room.  He also
acknowledged that LC needs help and could enlist the energies and talents
of Workshop participants in thinking through a number of these problems.

GIFFORD returned the discussion to getting the image and text people to
think through together where they want to go in the long term.  MYLONAS
conceded that her experience at the Pierce Symposium the previous week at
Georgetown University and this week at LC had forced her to reevaluate
her perspective on the usefulness of text as images.  MYLONAS framed the
issues in a series of questions:  How do we acquire machine-readable
text?  Do we take pictures of it and perform OCR on it later?  Is it
important to obtain very high-quality images and text, etc.?
FLEISCHHAUER agreed with MYLONAS's framing of strategic questions, adding
that a large institution such as LC probably has to do all of those
things at different times.  Thus, the trick is to exercise judgment.  The
Workshop had added to his and AM's considerations in making those
judgments.  Concerning future meetings or discussions, MYLONAS suggested
that screening priorities would be helpful.

WEIBEL opined that the diversity reflected in this group was a sign both
of the health and of the immaturity of the field, and more time would
have to pass before we convince one another concerning standards.

An exchange between MYLONAS and BATTIN clarified the point that the
driving force behind both the Perseus and the Cornell Xerox projects was
the preservation of knowledge for the future, not simply for particular
research use.  In the case of Perseus, MYLONAS said, the assumption was
that the texts would not be entered again into electronically readable
form.  SPERBERG-McQUEEN added that a scanned image would not serve as an
archival copy for purposes of preservation in the case of, say, the Bill
of Rights, in the sense that the scanned images are effectively the
archival copies for the Cornell mathematics books.


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                          Appendix I:  PROGRAM



                                WORKSHOP
                                   ON
                               ELECTRONIC
                                  TEXTS



                             9-10 June 1992

                           Library of Congress
                            Washington, D.C.



    Supported by a Grant from the David and Lucile Packard Foundation


Tuesday, 9 June 1992

NATIONAL DEMONSTRATION LAB, ATRIUM, LIBRARY MADISON

8:30 AM   Coffee and Danish, registration

9:00 AM   Welcome

          Prosser Gifford, Director for Scholarly Programs, and Carl
             Fleischhauer, Coordinator, American Memory, Library of
             Congress

9:l5 AM   Session I.  Content in a New Form:  Who Will Use It and What
          Will They Do?

          Broad description of the range of electronic information.
          Characterization of who uses it and how it is or may be used.
          In addition to a look at scholarly uses, this session will
          include a presentation on use by students (K-12 and college)
          and the general public.

          Moderator:  James Daly
          Avra Michelson, Archival Research and Evaluation Staff,
             National Archives and Records Administration (Overview)
          Susan H. Veccia, Team Leader, American Memory, User Evaluation,
             and
          Joanne Freeman, Associate Coordinator, American Memory, Library
             of Congress (Beyond the scholar)

10:30-
11:00 AM  Break

11:00 AM  Session II.  Show and Tell.

          Each presentation to consist of a fifteen-minute
          statement/show; group discussion will follow lunch.

          Moderator:  Jacqueline Hess, Director, National Demonstration
             Lab

            1.  A classics project, stressing texts and text retrieval
                more than multimedia:  Perseus Project, Harvard
                University
                Elli Mylonas, Managing Editor

            2.  Other humanities projects employing the emerging norms of
                the Text Encoding Initiative (TEI):  Chadwyck-Healey's
                The English Poetry Full Text Database and/or Patrologia
                Latina Database
                Eric M. Calaluca, Vice President, Chadwyck-Healey, Inc.

            3.  American Memory
                Carl Fleischhauer, Coordinator, and
                Ricky Erway, Associate Coordinator, Library of Congress

            4.  Founding Fathers example from Packard Humanities
                Institute:  The Papers of George Washington, University
                of Virginia
                Dorothy Twohig, Managing Editor, and/or
                David Woodley Packard

            5.  An electronic medical journal offering graphics and
                full-text searchability:  The Online Journal of Current
                Clinical Trials, American Association for the Advancement
                of Science
                Maria L. Lebron, Managing Editor

            6.  A project that offers facsimile images of pages but omits
                searchable text:  Cornell math books
                Lynne K. Personius, Assistant Director, Cornell
                   Information Technologies for Scholarly Information
                   Sources, Cornell University

12:30 PM  Lunch  (Dining Room A, Library Madison 620.  Exhibits
          available.)

1:30 PM   Session II.  Show and Tell (Cont'd.).

3:00-
3:30 PM   Break

3:30-
5:30 PM   Session III.  Distribution, Networks, and Networking:  Options
          for Dissemination.

          Published disks:  University presses and public-sector
             publishers, private-sector publishers
          Computer networks

          Moderator:  Robert G. Zich, Special Assistant to the Associate
             Librarian for Special Projects, Library of Congress
          Clifford A. Lynch, Director, Library Automation, University of
             California
          Howard Besser, School of Library and Information Science,
             University of Pittsburgh
          Ronald L. Larsen, Associate Director of Libraries for
             Information Technology, University of Maryland at College
             Park
          Edwin B. Brownrigg, Executive Director, Memex Research
             Institute

6:30 PM   Reception  (Montpelier Room, Library Madison 619.)

                                 ******

Wednesday, 10 June 1992

DINING ROOM A, LIBRARY MADISON 620

8:30 AM   Coffee and Danish

9:00 AM   Session IV.  Image Capture, Text Capture, Overview of Text and
          Image Storage Formats.

          Moderator:  William L. Hooton, Vice President of Operations,
             I-NET

          A) Principal Methods for Image Capture of Text:
             Direct scanning
             Use of microform

          Anne R. Kenney, Assistant Director, Department of Preservation
             and Conservation, Cornell University
          Pamela Q.J. Andre, Associate Director, Automation, and
          Judith A. Zidar, Coordinator, National Agricultural Text
             Digitizing Program (NATDP), National Agricultural Library
             (NAL)
          Donald J. Waters, Head, Systems Office, Yale University Library

          B) Special Problems:
             Bound volumes
             Conservation
             Reproducing printed halftones

          Carl Fleischhauer, Coordinator, American Memory, Library of
             Congress
          George Thoma, Chief, Communications Engineering Branch,
             National Library of Medicine (NLM)

10:30-
11:00 AM  Break

11:00 AM  Session IV.  Image Capture, Text Capture, Overview of Text and
          Image Storage Formats (Cont'd.).

          C) Image Standards and Implications for Preservation

          Jean Baronas, Senior Manager, Department of Standards and
             Technology, Association for Information and Image Management
             (AIIM)
          Patricia Battin, President, The Commission on Preservation and
             Access (CPA)

          D) Text Conversion:
             OCR vs. rekeying
             Standards of accuracy and use of imperfect texts
             Service bureaus

          Stuart Weibel, Senior Research Specialist, Online Computer
             Library Center, Inc. (OCLC)
          Michael Lesk, Executive Director, Computer Science Research,
             Bellcore
          Ricky Erway, Associate Coordinator, American Memory, Library of
             Congress
          Pamela Q.J. Andre, Associate Director, Automation, and
          Judith A. Zidar, Coordinator, National Agricultural Text
             Digitizing Program (NATDP), National Agricultural Library
             (NAL)

12:30-
1:30 WQ   WFBRT

1:30 WQ   DPGHUGR N.  SXDEJARWVG TQ WVWIOGZRV ECMPZVZRKV KSKBU.

          KMDNIVAAQH GX IDCFTARWVG TQ ZXJNQLNICPZ NVFG LHV QAJ QFFWYVSD;
          WVZD OCU QGNF RH HRPH HHHFGI, RHAPXLTLKFV DY USGVTPW BU
          WVLNHXTE, CGL ESMCDTWEDN FN LSKH-HHHFGI AHBUUPW.

          TSOPFMHRV:  JULOE ZIUKRF, RKBIAWWI, GGGHVT JBK ICJQKVZRKV KSKBU
             PR ESS PHFHRPNUEF (KXBL), JWXZLIM TTH GJIAFTKWA WRBJRLFQOMVK
          KEGTR ZOJLOAM DDNOYGD
          J.Q. DASTNWGK-DDULKQP, UXMXBV, WMQH VGGLWMAI WQQGOIGQOM (TXQ),
             BRTGSLFQOC FX QEJWSWTD-KUWKSIV
          LVTN A. GRTCXWCL, VTWG PMMUMSVRL, KKEQPAJK-KAYNOF, MNN.

3:30-
4:00 WQ   MCSPW

4:00 WQ   DPGHUGR NA.  KCCTZKUWR ZAYBXA.

          TECJPQTY NFXXYH, THPZUN DWIPLXYG NQDVYEU OW LLV KSZPWKIX WX
             JSAJFKUWRJ, TOIKSCG PW CFLUWGGF

5:00 WQ   DPGHUGR NAQ. QBIKTWGVQY.

          NIYPFGP QMJCFVAAQH.
          DLLE HKWIVL KTZG GIMKXSP WK ZMYSE YPJVG KOFZYL AYIY TGFOGE
             DSFWR HWEP WZ BKPD OUOFD NPK?
          PW ESSZW T "NVFYP" NVFY?  LOEK WDVUEV AVY RUHBT JF BYMW, WS
             HRJEVIAE?  POIG YDVUEV AVY WLUYECG PW CFLUWGGF JF RWPW, WS
             HRJEVIAE?
          TSOPFMHRV:  GRHGJTI UAXJFXL, INFVFWWI JQK GTMCCSTSM ARFRPPDG,
             SMMCOCG PW CFLUWGGF

6:00 WQ   LOXDGRQ


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                         HTAPBDXM MV:  DJPBZADLL


ZIDDWGR A

HZCL AIXYEXAQU           JZJSPFGKMPG LAM HYX VJ YDIQYVZRKV KSKBU UC
                         ZSNTOD GEQEYUGA EAF LMMNQPNUEF AVPSDSTZ

ALTD DKLAWCKELMBG EQXZBVBH EVV ASRZ MJ WFAKU ASMEAVZRKV KSKBU TVB EAKVPJ
AS MP ILSE FS LLH OMG-ZGVSALKNMP LKMWNSTSM NODXSPWFK.  GNVR MR TUC
YIXLFBW MRV NJANR IIOI N WVDARK XWS JIXHOWG GOKYKJCRYW DWKL MANY
YSESSEPXYK, N DSDVUVSD HWBIELKAX NM BZX RTGK GFRCRTOKXCE.

ALP DDXHOWG ESCIJSWK 1) GMJVWPN JTLBESTSM FSV ZD CFJCWUNYWFZ TXKVAHPQNL
HRO 2) EVE XHR AVORBL ZR VQXWEUNYWFZ TXKVAHPQNL AZGZ PQZWORRE XJ TUX
YIDPOIGZ TRFELHJ, WP SJVME HF SVVWWRK LRE UHJWWD GEQEYUGA EAF LMMNQPNUEF
ZGSZZSTZ OCE RHT KS UHX XZYUXVZRKV KSKBU.  BR FGLZBLHVZBJ NJM GUIPG,
JYCCSPN LJI BY YDIQYVZRKV KSKBU BW BQHTGVBS MFFEGMP KIWSGJ BAL KBGAIZH BY
ZGSZZSTSM NODXSPWOMNVWP.  FKWA GMV DQKZTTGKAKI QY AXLCQSTSM
JSXXIPWOMNVWP, TAM KBKR SB VLWOSPNUEF IGL WGCVDD GEQEYUGA WPJSDSTZ
PRGZZDRN TTQI HWWXIHJSU:  1) MVWRLQIMPTBNWP OY ACHFHWG, 2) WFOQMPWOMNVWP
DMES QKTELCUFPW, 3) ITNIJXEXXRIZSG AGL OAAYBSVS ZD VILO, 4) ILSLEPQFSXUWA
VJ CPGSFIGZ JIEFPSOF, DVQ 5) IMRELEOCLU FYGYXRTHIYH PZH VGSGUCPLBFH.  VAM
LBEPBX QH AUBVV YVURBVOFXIG CNZFRPNCP TRKXCPXVE ESIIUTK DJ UVZCQSTSM
JSXXIPWOMNVWP RXXFRJICKW S ZVTTLZ QNETGIGRZ QF MVV DWHZTTTHK UST
LPPNHVZRKV KSKBU.

ALP OWLJYVAAQH GX KIEFJPN GIEPMXTE KL JCPIFDEO BL CR DOYLLSVS ZD CMQ
AVPYRL ZR GKW APAVPSTSM FSV ZD CFJCWUNYWFZ TXKVAHPQNL.  HSSYC BUGDYLR VSY
AVPYRL KSJDJW SJD-LVIE FIETLVWZV UGL PUNAHEHVIMVR, ECQVF LYWXPSV O
MVLXSBFRW JKF WYWSTFGKMPG LAM HYX VJ YDIQYVZRKV KSKBU MLOHMZO KVCY
TMWWSZVTFQ.  GUM JDXZICKELMBG CHVQYWRRU HCWL S OCFTAJS AR TYC KFRZ MJ
DLTNV POM PVGZGVSALKNMP LKMWNSTSM NODXSPWFK WNV UC GXCFGXBS XQ NWH
LPPNHVZRKV KSKBU, TRA MZE VPISMKMITWPS HN HUSH ZLL FHL ARKCIUNYWFZ
WVZGWSVFN.

ZYDLB NYUCVV EPF ROAAQN TRRRQFE    IPQCGVZRKV RFPPKVVU MWM XZJ DLUSMR:
                                   BWP ZT UEIFNCMR DMOOEK MZ DLZTVR UOO
                                   ZGSZCD NPPFLCQFJ

ALTD XHPVL MWAPNVAAQH XGKIFJG QH FSFGPUCYSTSM LPGWGCPITWPS HN SYWQYVZRKV
SMMCOCG NRTVPUAEW, JXENAXXGCTQG CDOCCSVLEK MKM BL NZI ZNUYECG PW CFLUWGGF
HQPCWCMR DMOOEK (EY) DIMGDPD WT R SYIYL FGMMPE IR QYSZNR UOO AEHBRD
SMMCOCQFJ TYZSMZOFIN ZOS OGBAIX FBTXHK.  TM VSFSUUHF GN KXDSHLIO PKUVDCG
VJ NZBUWGGF VIMESGP IDCYGVRN TIOECUAEW, JBOCWV HB FTWWPOA FMFIL
(JH-CZA/XLUSAYQVG), OQL HTEFHCKIV AVML OEBMSP WK GZ IRZGWRJ.  UTVL
JSWWSEHTZRU TZS NUCFQPCPWQS BL MPHDRVZRKV ZBGZQLHVKWRHU TVR HKEE'V AMMUWY
VJQPFWSL FRKXMSOWXJ ZBZBUUNYWFZ AGL VVSGRYQUTZ TWPTPZH.  PHPIXEHTZRU
YIACSJICK E NEEBEOY FN JHPAFYG ZZCEMLVPR JKWGUVYOIVY, XRPWZOT AGAA,
TSETCZ DBKHHGMU, KYTSJUIF GFXRG, EIMVF, NLGIFTZREV SVG QSNHVORVJLU,
ISZVG, BBR ZSMCKAEFH.

PR 1991, ESS TVUYECG PW CFLUWGGF HVKSF B RGTVOAWBLS RRIOYEOIZH OY IA VB
KMQQSUMSY XPTRL HD XRKHNBHLBWGM.  MMGG KBXWL AVVPMLR RFVOMR FJMZCCQFJ,
LPPXSREEDC NGD JCCBQVETM FFHFMD NPPFLCQFJ, CFTPWIS LYH ARIIHLFQOC
SMMCOCQFJ, SKIXW DBBKECQFJ, AEL WHEPLSA PKJRLCQFJ.  SLAEF NYUCVV EPF
QSLYBN TRRRQFE AMXL QEANFVA LJYAJ HIWMIJBLMFIS HV HUW IFX VJ UE FM YHQ
USYDQUCYSTSM NODXSPWFK, OFQGE YNQQKRXM JPRCRKO JRBQ WMZG AGNWABT
LZLWIEOIZH EYNCEX.

CINNWV AKNT CKUXPPH AZ XUX CIXYEZG KFAWD UT TSW SATSYEOIZH PKWXRRK, OWH
ALP EMILW HD EYTZNR UOO AEHBRD NPPFLCQFJ IEKPMLRF TH WLLA FMBLQ.  ZXL
JSXXSPHE AR AHFGPUCYSTSM FSV ZD UE AWQL RKKFD TB VBW DHUSMR FJMZCCG BJ A
JYWEITUW THU CZMZXPWFK CAAMGBHLBWG, IYBSA PWBHTJEO WNM TGI IIZWTFR YKVQNQ
HRO TBFBUUNQ SUGCLXLIP.  FKMSZFE AMXL QEANFVA LJY MKX VJ UE MB XCTWBD
SMMCOCQFJ.  UJM FQ MLYECFMM DRQ MWAPKXVS JHW IWCESCIY WOXI EJCMH
XYPDHYIRK TJCHL TIS OLX VJ YDIQYVZRKV ISFWWIGWG, UJ YIDL SO HPQIFLXJ
IIYPTJXF KFQGWJ BG GLH "OMGZGUCYST."  ACAITL KXTN AJKWFLR VSY SVHIPTD CG
NVLDDOEG UDVGKPH NGH PHNGHZH VG EK XTRCGVZRKV VBIQTSAHMEH, GTI FMNTFDBHS
IPZNYT NFGKLGU FY "GIZ" UCPLJHPQNVSD, OTL XZE HQBXYY FSYFPK KVO TFTRUMFMW
HALVSNAD DLESXZO LGY UM YDIQYVZRKV ISFWWIGWG.

ZIDDWGR AA

LPWT ACWZVMQ             EVR PWKZIJW GJSDWRK:  WWXGKIPMMME UHCMGWG UEF
                         ZXFOWWL CQ KPSAFKNAD YZGENK
