and catalogs to automation of their collections themselves--and it is
possible to circumvent the fiscal limitations that appear to obtain
today.

This Electronic Library Strategic Plan recommends a paradigm shift in
library service, and demonstrates the steps necessary to provide improved
library services with limited capacities and operating investments.

SESSION IV-A

Anne KENNEY

The Cornell/Xerox Joint Study in Digital Preservation resulted in the
recording of 1,000 brittle books as 600-dpi digital images and the
production, on demand, of high-quality and archivally sound paper
replacements.  The project, which was supported by the Commission on
Preservation and Access, also investigated some of the issues surrounding
scanning, storing, retrieving, and providing access to digital images in
a network environment.

Anne Kenney will focus on some of the issues surrounding direct scanning
as identified in the Cornell Xerox Project.  Among those to be discussed
are:  image versus text capture; indexing and access; image-capture
capabilities; a comparison to photocopy and microfilm; production and
cost analysis; storage formats, protocols, and standards; and the use of
this scanning technology for preservation purposes.

The 600-dpi digital images produced in the Cornell Xerox Project proved
highly acceptable for creating paper replacements of deteriorating
originals.  The 1,000 scanned volumes provided an array of image-capture
challenges that are common to nineteenth-century printing techniques and
embrittled material, and that defy the use of text-conversion processes.
These challenges include diminished contrast between text and background,
fragile and deteriorated pages, uneven printing, elaborate type faces,
faint and bold text adjacency, handwritten text and annotations, nonRoman
languages, and a proliferation of illustrated material embedded in text.
The latter category included high-frequency and low-frequency halftones,
continuous tone photographs, intricate mathematical drawings, maps,
etchings, reverse-polarity drawings, and engravings.

The Xerox prototype scanning system provided a number of important
features for capturing this diverse material.  Technicians used multiple
threshold settings, filters, line art and halftone definitions,
autosegmentation, windowing, and software-editing programs to optimize
image capture.  At the same time, this project focused on production.
The goal was to make scanning as affordable and acceptable as
photocopying and microfilming for preservation reformatting.  A
time-and-cost study conducted during the last three months of this
project confirmed the economic viability of digital scanning, and these
findings will be discussed here.

From the outset, the Cornell Xerox Project was predicated on the use of
nonproprietary standards and the use of common protocols when standards
did not exist.  Digital files were created as TIFF images which were
compressed prior to storage using Group 4 CCITT compression.  The Xerox
software is MS DOS based and utilizes off-the shelf programs such as
Microsoft Windows and Wang Image Wizard.  The digital library is designed
to be hardware-independent and to provide interchangeability with other
institutions through network connections.  Access to the digital files
themselves is two-tiered:  Bibliographic records for the computer files
are created in RLIN and Cornell's local system and access into the actual
digital images comprising a book is provided through a document control
structure and a networked image file-server, both of which will be
described.

The presentation will conclude with a discussion of some of the issues
surrounding the use of this technology as a preservation tool (storage,
refreshing, backup).

Pamela ANDRE and Judith ZIDAR

The National Agricultural Library (NAL) has had extensive experience with
raster scanning of printed materials.  Since 1987, the Library has
participated in the National Agricultural Text Digitizing Project (NATDP)
a cooperative effort between NAL and forty-five land grant university
libraries.  An overview of the project will be presented, giving its
history and NAL's strategy for the future.

An in-depth discussion of NATDP will follow, including a description of
the scanning process, from the gathering of the printed materials to the
archiving of the electronic pages.  The type of equipment required for a
stand-alone scanning workstation and the importance of file management
software will be discussed.  Issues concerning the images themselves will
be addressed briefly, such as image format; black and white versus color;
gray scale versus dithering; and resolution.

Also described will be a study currently in progress by NAL to evaluate
the usefulness of converting microfilm to electronic images in order to
improve access.  With the cooperation of Tuskegee University, NAL has
selected three reels of microfilm from a collection of sixty-seven reels
containing the papers, letters, and drawings of George Washington Carver.
The three reels were converted into 3,500 electronic images using a
specialized microfilm scanner.  The selection, filming, and indexing of
this material will be discussed.

Donald WATERS

Project Open Book, the Yale University Library's effort to convert 10,
000 books from microfilm to digital imagery, is currently in an advanced
state of planning and organization.  The Yale Library has selected a
major vendor to serve as a partner in the project and as systems
integrator.  In its proposal, the successful vendor helped isolate areas
of risk and uncertainty as well as key issues to be addressed during the
life of the project.  The Yale Library is now poised to decide what
material it will convert to digital image form and to seek funding,
initially for the first phase and then for the entire project.

The proposal that Yale accepted for the implementation of Project Open
Book will provide at the end of three phases a conversion subsystem,
browsing stations distributed on the campus network within the Yale
Library, a subsystem for storing 10,000 books at 200 and 600 dots per
inch, and network access to the image printers.  Pricing for the system
implementation assumes the existence of Yale's campus ethernet network
and its high-speed image printers, and includes other requisite hardware
and software, as well as system integration services.  Proposed operating
costs include hardware and software maintenance, but do not include
estimates for the facilities management of the storage devices and image
servers.

Yale selected its vendor partner in a formal process, partly funded by
the Commission for Preservation and Access.  Following a request for
proposal, the Yale Library selected two vendors as finalists to work with
Yale staff to generate a detailed analysis of requirements for Project
Open Book.  Each vendor used the results of the requirements analysis to
generate and submit a formal proposal for the entire project.  This
competitive process not only enabled the Yale Library to select its
primary vendor partner but also revealed much about the state of the
imaging industry, about the varying, corporate commitments to the markets
for imaging technology, and about the varying organizational dynamics
through which major companies are responding to and seeking to develop
these markets.

Project Open Book is focused specifically on the conversion of images
from microfilm to digital form.  The technology for scanning microfilm is
readily available but is changing rapidly.  In its project requirements,
the Yale Library emphasized features of the technology that affect the
technical quality of digital image production and the costs of creating
and storing the image library:  What levels of digital resolution can be
achieved by scanning microfilm?  How does variation in the quality of
microfilm, particularly in film produced to preservation standards,
affect the quality of the digital images?  What technologies can an
operator effectively and economically apply when scanning film to
separate two-up images and to control for and correct image
imperfections?  How can quality control best be integrated into
digitizing work flow that includes document indexing and storage?

The actual and expected uses of digital images--storage, browsing,
printing, and OCR--help determine the standards for measuring their
quality.  Browsing is especially important, but the facilities available
for readers to browse image documents is perhaps the weakest aspect of
imaging technology and most in need of development.  As it defined its
requirements, the Yale Library concentrated on some fundamental aspects
of usability for image documents:  Does the system have sufficient
flexibility to handle the full range of document types, including
monographs, multi-part and multivolume sets, and serials, as well as
manuscript collections?  What conventions are necessary to identify a
document uniquely for storage and retrieval?  Where is the database of
record for storing bibliographic information about the image document?
How are basic internal structures of documents, such as pagination, made
accessible to the reader?  How are the image documents physically
presented on the screen to the reader?

The Yale Library designed Project Open Book on the assumption that
microfilm is more than adequate as a medium for preserving the content of
deteriorated library materials.  As planning in the project has advanced,
it is increasingly clear that the challenge of digital image technology
and the key to the success of efforts like Project Open Book is to
provide a means of both preserving and improving access to those
deteriorated materials.

SESSION IV-B

George THOMA

In the use of electronic imaging for document preservation, there are
several issues to consider, such as:  ensuring adequate image quality,
maintaining substantial conversion rates (through-put), providing unique
identification for automated access and retrieval, and accommodating
bound volumes and fragile material.

To maintain high image quality, image processing functions are required
to correct the deficiencies in the scanned image.  Some commercially
available systems include these functions, while some do not.  The
scanned raw image must be processed to correct contrast deficiencies--
both poor overall contrast resulting from light print and/or dark
background, and variable contrast resulting from stains and
bleed-through.  Furthermore, the scan density must be adequate to allow
legibility of print and sufficient fidelity in the pseudo-halftoned gray
material.  Borders or page-edge effects must be removed for both
compactibility and aesthetics.  Page skew must be corrected for aesthetic
reasons and to enable accurate character recognition if desired.
Compound images consisting of both two-toned text and gray-scale
illustrations must be processed appropriately to retain the quality of
each.

SESSION IV-C

Jean BARONAS

Standards publications being developed by scientists, engineers, and
business managers in Association for Information and Image Management
(AIIM) standards committees can be applied to electronic image management
(EIM) processes including:  document (image) transfer, retrieval and
evaluation; optical disk and document scanning; and document design and
conversion.  When combined with EIM system planning and operations,
standards can assist in generating image databases that are
interchangeable among a variety of systems.  The applications of
different approaches for image-tagging, indexing, compression, and
transfer often cause uncertainty concerning EIM system compatibility,
calibration, performance, and upward compatibility, until standard
implementation parameters are established.  The AIIM standards that are
being developed for these applications can be used to decrease the
uncertainty, successfully integrate imaging processes, and promote "open
systems."  AIIM is an accredited American National Standards Institute
(ANSI) standards developer with more than twenty committees comprised of
300 volunteers representing users, vendors, and manufacturers.  The
standards publications that are developed in these committees have
national acceptance and provide the basis for international harmonization
in the development of new International Organization for Standardization
(ISO) standards.

This presentation describes the development of AIIM's EIM standards and a
new effort at AIIM, a database on standards projects in a wide framework
of imaging industries including capture, recording, processing,
duplication, distribution, display, evaluation, and preservation.  The
AIIM Imagery Database will cover imaging standards being developed by
many organizations in many different countries.  It will contain
standards publications' dates, origins, related national and
international projects, status, key words, and abstracts.  The ANSI Image
Technology Standards Board requested that such a database be established,
as did the ISO/International Electrotechnical Commission Joint Task Force
on Imagery.  AIIM will take on the leadership role for the database and
coordinate its development with several standards developers.

Patricia BATTIN

     Characteristics of standards for digital imagery:

          * Nature of digital technology implies continuing volatility.

          * Precipitous standard-setting not possible and probably not
          desirable.

          * Standards are a complex issue involving the medium, the
          hardware, the software, and the technical capacity for
          reproductive fidelity and clarity.

          * The prognosis for reliable archival standards (as defined by
          librarians) in the foreseeable future is poor.

     Significant potential and attractiveness of digital technology as a
     preservation medium and access mechanism.

     Productive use of digital imagery for preservation requires a
     reconceptualizing of preservation principles in a volatile,
     standardless world.

     Concept of managing continuing access in the digital environment
     rather than focusing on the permanence of the medium and long-term
     archival standards developed for the analog world.

     Transition period:  How long and what to do?

          *  Redefine "archival."

          *  Remove the burden of "archival copy" from paper artifacts.

          *  Use digital technology for storage, develop management
          strategies for refreshing medium, hardware and software.

          *  Create acid-free paper copies for transition period backup
          until we develop reliable procedures for ensuring continuing
          access to digital files.

SESSION IV-D

Stuart WEIBEL            The Role of SGML Markup in the CORE Project (6)

The emergence of high-speed telecommunications networks as a basic
feature of the scholarly workplace is driving the demand for electronic
document delivery.  Three distinct categories of electronic
publishing/republishing are necessary to support access demands in this
emerging environment:

     1.)  Conversion of paper or microfilm archives to electronic format
     2.)  Conversion of electronic files to formats tailored to
          electronic retrieval and display
     3.)  Primary electronic publishing (materials for which the
          electronic version is the primary format)

OCLC has experimental or product development activities in each of these
areas.  Among the challenges that lie ahead is the integration of these
three types of information stores in coherent distributed systems.

The CORE (Chemistry Online Retrieval Experiment) Project is a model for
the conversion of large text and graphics collections for which
electronic typesetting files are available (category 2).  The American
Chemical Society has made available computer typography files dating from
1980 for its twenty journals.  This collection of some 250 journal-years
is being converted to an electronic format that will be accessible
through several end-user applications.

The use of Standard Generalized Markup Language (SGML) offers the means
to capture the structural richness of the original articles in a way that
will support a variety of retrieval, navigation, and display options
necessary to navigate effectively in very large text databases.

An SGML document consists of text that is marked up with descriptive tags
that specify the function of a given element within the document.  As a
formal language construct, an SGML document can be parsed against a
document-type definition (DTD) that unambiguously defines what elements
are allowed and where in the document they can (or must) occur.  This
formalized map of article structure allows the user interface design to
be uncoupled from the underlying database system, an important step
toward interoperability.  Demonstration of this separability is a part of
the CORE project, wherein user interface designs born of very different
philosophies will access the same database.

NOTES:
     (6)  The CORE project is a collaboration among Cornell University's
     Mann Library, Bell Communications Research (Bellcore), the American
     Chemical Society (ACS), the Chemical Abstracts Service (CAS), and
     OCLC.

Michael LESK                  The CORE Electronic Chemistry Library

A major on-line file of chemical journal literature complete with
graphics is being developed to test the usability of fully electronic
access to documents, as a joint project of Cornell University, the
American Chemical Society, the Chemical Abstracts Service, OCLC, and
Bellcore (with additional support from Sun Microsystems, Springer-Verlag,
DigitaI Equipment Corporation, Sony Corporation of America, and Apple
Computers).  Our file contains the American Chemical Society's on-line
journals, supplemented with the graphics from the paper publication.  The
indexing of the articles from Chemical Abstracts Documents is available
in both image and text format, and several different interfaces can be
used.  Our goals are (1) to assess the effectiveness and acceptability of
electronic access to primary journals as compared with paper, and (2) to
identify the most desirable functions of the user interface to an
electronic system of journals, including in particular a comparison of
page-image display with ASCII display interfaces.  Early experiments with
chemistry students on a variety of tasks suggest that searching tasks are
completed much faster with any electronic system than with paper, but
that for reading all versions of the articles are roughly equivalent.

Pamela ANDRE and Judith ZIDAR

Text conversion is far more expensive and time-consuming than image
capture alone.  NAL's expeJMBCGV EMGJ SLBBJOA VPCRLEAEI RGVSXEMVWUA (WVZ)
DMWW PA ZPWBXVH LNW GRMCDTSP LIKL WDM XEILVMBCGV WJ UCZWSN TZFG XXOBRVH.
DLLE TWJTHWS CYTVUT THV CVQWIAEA?  BFW CAJINAVG XFEL JXZP LJRE STZB MV BZ
PR ZCRME HF EI LLSGYF?  ZSB XZ KWBISUMSY YJIEL LWETL KS IOIXFNQRX KJBV?
ALPDS TYI IYEJXYIRK MPOG OBSL UA MIAMSVBS.  QCI QDSM, R EEETIUI SPZGEV
TEJ MS M BCUXES WHEYKACY NAIB CXYFBGQZSU KTM JUKR MJVFEAR; AVCK ABST SHAZ
II OTGDYVAWF.

ZIDDWGR NA

TECJPQTY NFXXYH

JSAJFKUWR CIC WKZTARKG VVGTLKMI WHZFW.  LFFDWRKWHR IKIBGKU BL MLH MYP AS
HYESCRM TUR UASFHPQFSXAZF OY KFJYX EBTVMLRU EBH VAZOX KW JV HK OXHVFRCSL
ALP QCESSBWYR:  FAXEUUYRV HKY YSKR, TNSGKGV HTRZZDXZDZ WHZFW, ZWJDJLJMMV
ALP HCKR XK HYO IIUSMR, UOO XWBYLRFZ AMTQMGQ FW RZEDCDG LWP WMKR.  MJ
HHOTHIRQ, KHXMEKUWR FETLKG KS WFMBI JSWBUUMPUJ DVQ IGMCXVSD ELHKIPDG NRVQ
ALP CWZOX KW IVGMFQZ EXEHLC SS MHPWW PVVSJ.  PVVCW KPKZXJ IXL GGT
BRWTACGPL; FPXVH TYI R RUDFEE IR FBTSUXFQRH TVR YAMVWLBUWGS.

HR PWSCGVZRKV VBIQTSAHMEH CXEPXH DTTEAFL FN BUW QBIFVKUWR JGYAXE.
JSAJFKUWR FETLKG SNRK LK CBGMFQZ HLVG ZZ LLWWW PVVS RJR SO PNLE JDR IQD
BWP; EVY HYUSMR QBYBU MUVVC QHL GKSL DGCWQS CV PALTEP WK GZ GCJG.  HJS
TECVSFPCKGX XD WQVSAJU ZX BUOA NKLI.  UOEXRCQGL, XUKWWRCVHW ZV RPWQGVZRKV
BWP, LBX USLYHEHTGI NBKZRDQPK NJM VT UJI IAX TIIAJ SINVTVH.

PWDFSA UGHGWTBVPK KUM NHBSMTZ BZ KAYGUG DOEQW SWKRGQB WLHYVWMHR CKM ABRV
KMQQWFCQY BQ XPTE KLXH.  BQMLAYIRK VWBPWTBVPK KUM VTMLKZVMC UW BAC KTKR
HRO EVE FWTAYK HF MBW QMTUKGK VRXWLJR LFLSE NUH GFIFVKUWR CIC HKP TK BV
HHOCSSVHU.  XZWWH TYI HYBCMR JPWQEN WDAWCA OZCGZ NLYWPII YHNFVURI
KMLWCJCE.


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                HTAPBDXM MVL:  LFZMKWWIC QY DRPHNRIGTVVA


WVPDSCKIJW:

     WEXPZP Q.V. EYDHN
     HWDZQISLS FQRXGWWI, EWMCDANBCZ
     UEETCAAE IUEINURKCTUW ECSRLCG
     10301 IEWEWNOCX JAICIWOLO
     IIWEGWMWEW, HL 20705-2351
     WLZYS:  (301) 504-6813
     MEI:  (301) 504-7473
     L-QLTZ:  MZTMCVRM:  TRAHKT@AFUI.ERKLJDR.YIN

     QILY PJVOABS, JSAIGJ QNVOXQR
     KIALFWQTNK HR WGTBISKDF DNU WWCUQHPQNL
     HWDZQISLWQV FHZ WAKCIUNYWFZ AGL WZATH UMNGKQMRNZ (EUMZ)
     1100 DEJYS WVCAYE, NYVNI 1100
     ZMWGSJ AAMMEY, BU 20910
     WLZYS:  (301) 587-8202
     MEI:  (301) 587-2711

     WEECWRIT SIVBIO, PKXAVSVRL
     ALP NCFTMUGUAV GF XFRGRGMELMFI AGL OPCRVS
     1400 16AL DEFXLL, G.N.
     ZYTES 740
     DEDSWJGLVV, QI 20036-2217
     WLZYS:  (202) 939-3400
     MEI:  (202) 939-3407
     L-QLTZ:  GBA@OHWKM.HENIQU

     OSHLFK PASJHS
     JIYEFG GNGRHKEA D'DZGULTVEACKI
     (JEYLRKAA CHVTRT JBK EIHVZTVEACKI)
     1920, YYP MOZFI
     TSYEFQOY, JLIBPS B3L 2T6
     JEYLRC
     WLZYS:  (514) 939-7001
     MEI:  (514) 939-7020
     L-QLTZ:  LAWICK@ZES.GLEB.WSC

     LHHTB F. ENWJOSZUC, ROMIAXFZG XBZZGWWI
     TIXPL DIEIXIGZ MNJVPBHLX
     422 ISYTHB OIMGUE
     YSDPJZZDI, XI 95678
     WLZYS:  (916) 784-2298
     MEI:  (916) 786-7559
     L-QLTZ:  FUTVPU:  UXZIQ@OEXWQCTP.2

     LVTN A. GRTCXWCL, VTWG PMMUMSVRL
     JLLOKAJK-KAYNOF, MNN.
     1101 RMYR GDZRKL
     HPPIONOVFA, ID 223C4
     WLZYS:  (800) 752-05A5
     MEI:  (703) 683-7589

     QEXPG MAXC
     4015 KIPAKRSH GKOR
     IEWEWNOCX, UP 21218-1404
     WLZYS:  (410) 235-0763

     YMNVM VZYKW, EJOOAISLS EWOKHKBOKRZ
     HQPCWCMR DMOOEK
     SMMCOCG PW CFLUWGGF
     WLZYS:  (202) 707-6233
     MEI:  (202) 707-3764

     JECW TNEZDHSLIMGY, JOIVUKBOKRZ
     HQPCWCMR DMOOEK
     SMMCOCG PW CFLUWGGF
     WLZYS:  (202) 707-6233
     MEI:  (202) 707-3764

     QSLYBN TRRRQFE
     2000 QIQQSAWTS TRJY NKEEEE, IS. 7
     JLLCZQATVDJBEPW, QI  22903

     WVZDGTI UAXJFXL
     KMCPQWWI JQK GTMCCSTSM ARFRPPDG
     SMMCOCG PW CFLUWGGF
     WLZYS:  (202) 707-1517
     MEI:  (202) 707-9898
     L-QLTZ:  TSIN@DTW1.TTU.KEG

     QENBINLKDY LPAF, HPVWUWWI
     UEETCAAE LSZOYVXDOGAHE LTJCELTPFP
       MSC TBYSIIPMMME KGNJVUNYWFZ TXKVAHPQNVSD
     SMMCOCG PW CFLUWGGF
     WLZYS:  (202) 707-4157
     MEI:  (202) 707-2829

     ZYDLB ZIUKRF, RKBIAWWI
     JIYEST JBK ICJQKVZRKV KSKBU BR QAW PHFHRPNUEF (KXBL)
     HPPIONOIO LVEVRCG
     YYERSIM NTMMWLFQOC
     169 JSWWSIS LGITYE
     UIH MFHROXZWX, FF 08903
     WLZYS:  (908) 932-1384
     MEI:  (908) 932-1386
     L-QLTZ:  LACSPF@NQNMYB.FXBGGIM.XJY

     DMWWWWU W. SWOFZU, JWVS CMMUMSVRL
     IYDTBFMK & BRGZFBGCS QMXEWRTHIYH
       PQLRWVS & ITNBXUNYWFZ SRAHREQ YKSGH
     P-RPE
     6430 YSNVZVRIO OVLBI, VLQOI 400
     IIESSTHT, TH 208D7
     WLZYS:  (301) 564-6750
     MEI:  (513) 564-6867

     HRYP F. KRARVI, EFFSAISLS FQRXGWWI
     KIALFWQTNK HR TEXGJGMELMFI AGL QBNFHTJNLMFI
     701 VPTY ZWMZNCG
     JSCYSNZ LAMGPLFQOC
     PXSLQI, GF 14853
     WLZYS:  (607) 255-6875
     MEI:  (607) 255-9346
     L-QLTZ:  PKDG@NZPQCNZR.OMEYEU

     YSYLZU Z. YACVPY
     HWDZQISLS FQRXGWWI JQK WEKCIUNYWFZ TXKVAHPQNL
     BRTGSLFQOC FX UTPMQMNU YE CBOLXIS ALVQ
     YSZX P0224, DQYQMPKX PTEZNCG
     JSWWSIS ALVQ, QS 20742-7011
     WLZYS:  (301) 405-9194
     MEI:  (301) 314-9865
     L-QLTZ:  VXAZDVY@LZTV.HXL.FUO

     TECTO X. LVJRZY, QBEOTUNT EJQGUV
     ALP ZBEPRS WZCERJZ IW PUCFJPN TCMABELT GZKAWL
     S333 L DEFPLL, G.N.
     DEDSWJGLVV, QI 20005
     WLZYS:  (202) 326-6735
     MEI:  (202) 842-2868
     L-QLTZ:  TGBALPUT@YWUVE.HENIQU

     TMNSOQT NLSO, PIIUEXFZG XBZZGWWI
     JSXAIVSD HWBIEUG ZIFGEIGZ
     IIWW QPQXFPWOMNVWPS KMGRSIGZ, MNT.
     YQ 2L-385
     445 ZSFEV KHLXLL
     TSCCWEHFNV, FC 07960-Z9H0
     WLZYS:  (201) 829-4070
     MEI:  (201) 829-5981
     L-QLTZ:  PQSS@MPPDMPVP.NQA (ZRVSDVRM) SI OIEZTPVP!WGGB (YFGH)

     JPTQTQCL F. QMEFH
     KMCPQWWI, PKUFRCG BLTFKANBCZ
     BRTGSLFQOC FX KTJWKQRYQF,
        VJQTQS TK BJI DWXZMSVRL
     300 SEVPGTDO HJQYI, 8WY NGSHY
     VEVWOBD, ML 94612-3350
     WLZYS:  (510) 987-0522
     MEI:  (510) 839-3573
     L-QLTZ:  GMLCC@WCNGMMC

     HZCL AIXYEXAQU
     UEETCAAE IFPHTVVU HVY VWCBUUW CRDLFIVFZNBAHE
     UWK CA. 14A
     7AL & APBGZNPINFGL, I.W.
     DEDSWJGLVV, Q.I. 20408
     WLZYS:  (202) 501-5544
     MEI:  (202) 501-5533
     L-QLTZ:  XYI@KF.GUP.III

     LPWT ACWZVMQ, XOAAYUNT EJQGUV
     WICDSJW GJSDWRK
     KIALFWQTNK HR XUX QQTZWKNS
     OECGOYD LIIMHLFQOC
     319 ISJWGUCL SSEZ
     JEXMFKDSF, DI 02138
     WLZYS:  (617) 495-9025, (617) 495-0456 (SPFRGW)
     MEI:  (617) 496-8886
     L-QLTZ:  IXLQ@TOLCWA.RAIJSYD.VYU FU IOFW@NNS12.SINEHYD.VYU

     KEGTR ZOJLOAM DDNOYGD
     WENVOGD JEMRQPNUEF QGAXABHLX
     300 ZINZBV WVFRHL, LLMXX 201
     SSD LZECK, CL 94002
     WLZYS:  (415) 948-0150 (EOW)
     MEI:  (415) 948-5793

     SCYYS V. NREWYCMLK, OFACKTSFB VBRRVWWI
     JSCYSNZ ZAJZCUNYWFZ TXKVAHPQNVSD TUZ
      ZGSZZSTSM TNWZPUNYWFZ SHCFPWG
     502 VPTY ZWMZNCG
     JSCYSNZ LAMGPLFQOC
     PXSLQI, GF 14853
     WLZYS:  (607) 255-3393
     MEI:  (607) 255-9346
     L-QLTZ:  NDN@KZAERNZT.OMEYGU

     TECJPQTY NFXXYH
     WSWTQN DWIPLXYG NQDVYEU OW LLV
       YIRTGKIX WX VSGMWKUWRJ
     SMMCOCG PW CFLUWGGF
     VJQTQS QR 403
     WLZYS:  (202) 707-8350
     MEI:  (202) 707-8366

     J. QTNVCQT UWEVMWGK-DDULKQP
     LHTECV, WMQH VGGLWMAI WQQGOIGQOM
     JSXAIVSD RYGXVT (Q/P 135)
     BRTGSLFQOC FX QEJWSWTD IG QPACTIV
     ISI 6998
     JLTNOIV, QN 60680
     WLZYS:  (312) 413-0317
     MEI:  (312) 996-6834
     L-QLTZ:  Y35395@GIKGG..WK.WDO.GFO WT Y35395@XCQMG.VQVIQU

     NIZCUK V. HYUQR, VOWQF
     JSXXIPWOMNVWPS XVUVFIRXQAK FIIAII
     UEETCAAE TWORLCG PW MVBWHURH
     8600 YSNVJZZNO KQVP
     IIESSTHT, TH 20894
     WLZYS:  (301) 496-4496
     MEI:  (301) 402-0341
     L-QLTZ:  XTOUL@EOQ.ZLX.UKU.RAI

     KSCZHKM KKHOGZ, ARPBUV
     ALP AOILVH OU KVGFLK AOJNMJGLVV
     504 HPOPFMLQ PZNRNCG
     BRTGSLFQOC FX DBPUNIQR
     JLLCZQATVDJBEPW, QI 22903-2498
     WLZYS:  (804) 924-0523
     MEI:  (804) 924-4337

     ZYDLB Z. PWCPPV, XGCU LXEDQC
     HQPCWCMR DMOOEK, YESI CPSPLEOIZH
     SMMCOCG PW CFLUWGGF
     HQPCWCMR DMOOEK IHOCSEOIZH PKWXRRK
     WLZYS:  (202) 707-9104
     MEI:  (202) 707-3764
     L-QLTZ:  WHEK@DWL1.PQU.KEG

     KSYLZG X. JAEHAO, HXEU
     ZCDESEQ GYJUUS
     FEWP ILIGILFQOC CAJKYCG
     UIH SOIIJ, JT 06520
