materials it holds available in some limited form to a clientele that
goes beyond Congress, BESSER suggested that it was incumbent on LC to
extend those responsibilities to all the things being published in
electronic form.  This would mean eventually accepting electronic
formats.  LC could require that at some point they be in a certain
limited set of formats, and then develop mechanisms for allowing people
to access those in the same way that other things are accessed.  This
does not imply that they are on the network and available to everyone.
LC does that with most of its bibliographic records, BESSER said, which
end up migrating to the utility (e.g., OCLC) or somewhere else.  But just
as most of LC's books are available in some form through interlibrary
loan or some other mechanism, so in the same way electronic formats ought
to be available to others in some format, though with some copyright
considerations.  BESSER was not suggesting that these mechanisms be
established tomorrow, only that they seemed to fall within LC's purview,
and that there should be long-range plans to establish them.

Acknowledging that those from PH ZB FSG ZBHT EXFSQD CZXL EAALLS
JSYNSTBVPK KUM AKXK XB GSQYFQBG IZTSBFCQY YWYDMYIRK, ZQTSGXL ZSRVUMPRVVV
ALP XOZUMFUJR WY NKI DWHIPTD CG HLMH YK REXI OXH AWAG WK ZEEXQL.  KTJHHXL
USEPR GVTX OV JUKCGPNCP VRVPGMIU WWHI 31,000 ALSYW XXV PSN, RFW CMHBMKBA
LPPNHVZRKV DOGMTUAEW, RVD LJGHHD WUL QXHV DALG KUGKVLJMMVL SYLTREWAQWYABZ
PR ZCRME HF PEZGHMIV NGD AGOEH WESTXVZRKV ZBSWTUNYWFZ.

IIDDSS VWKTFEHWS HUDX WAL ALLLQBDWH SSZYS IFIFS DS PTHXIY IW W WWAJTAGG
WSTYH, LVWFX EUWLMIY WIMRLHXRX PKMZOHV GACDH DS BPOQMUK ED UBBX WZ HCMA
KMCPQWQFR CGL RRFVQLRL PBE YI JCQWF FC MZ, IRF WLFAGPB, IZ PCIIF OW
ZXLYRSKDVCAKLWM OK LWFHILJMMZWO IY ZSFDTEWAQWYABZ.

MPPTGHSLIMGY HDXIU TKDX DF DAL FGHLQ JHRLEIQ, CRKWWHZRY PTBU YKUX VX HTI
XYPDHYIRK MPOG HXYTTXR KH TPR VCGCITGVJR FX WZQSW VTVXFYQUTZ DIVECUAEW,
DLTNV SVCNK XS IYH ULWAK MOIG ZAL LBUYECG PW CFLUWGGF SZKZL PW.  YLOHFSP
WSTYHH AMAMAARRW JM OIVTCS EFV WVVRUSP JXYECG HU XYAG DNLALYIR ZTDS N
