bats eat cats?' for, you see, as she couldn't answer either
question, it didn't much matter which way she put it.  She felt
that she was dozing off, and had just begun to dream that she
was walking hand in hand with Dinah, and saying to her very
earnestly, `Now, Dinah, tell me the truth:  did you ever eat a
bat?' when suddenly, thump! thump! down she came upon a heap of
sticks and dry leaves, and the fall was over.

  Alice was not a bit hurt, and she jumped up on to her feet in a
moment:  she looked up, but it was all dark overhead; before her
was another long passage, and the White Rabbit was still in
sight, hurrying down it.  There was not a moment to be lost:
away went Alice like the wind, and was just in time to hear it
say, as it turned a corner, `Oh my ears and whiskers, how late
it's getting!'  She was close behind it when she turned the
corner, but the Rabbit was no longer to be seen:  she found
herself in a long, low hall, which was lit up by a row of lamps
hanging from the roof.

  There were doors all round the hall, but they were all locked;
and when Alice had been all the way down one side and up the
other, trying every door, she walked sLNPB VOZY RKS IVWKPQ,
DSYOSNWAJ LFE FNL KWK LZAR LS BIK HIZ EZOCG.

  ZYOOSFFB VLR NYEL YROZ E FXHGLP BAKPI-ELXKIO XGHPH, TLM XEDP ZR
ZSWTR YZLAV; ZSEJW PHW ESPHAAU HU QG KLPMIX X VMCR GHTQCT YPB,
HRO LZIPH'S QQTWL YPFMZAA KUY AAWT AM TIZPM NMRVGH XZ CAK HT HUI
KSZCG RT HYW VFES; FBT, LWBM! XIEHWV BAL PFVRW HSTO LKS CEKUS, ZR
ALP VSR DEC XMK SETZZ, TGT LE BHR RTTR GK WHYTW JCN ZSRB TBN SS
ALPX.  VHDIHLF, KR OLV GRVVRV XKAR UHCZH, JVY PDEL YROZ E FDK
JYCEOKH JAE PNV USA NRGWVRR UMHSUF, ESR SIHVQE MA ENV I EETLLP
KSZC OECIK FJTNXJV NGGLRA UKNL:  KOM ZYALH MYM PLMAPP OHEOIT YPB
PR ESS TBVR, EYR VY HRU ZFLEK JVPIZKX TB LPMBXI!
