years, communication rates on the backbone are expected to exceed 1 Gbps.
Growth in both the population of network users and the volume of network
traffic  has continued to grow geometrically, at rates approaching 15
percent per month.  This flood of capacity and use, likened by some to
"drinking from a firehose,"  creates immense opportunities and challenges
for libraries.  Libraries must anticipate the future implications of this
technology, participate in its development, and deploy it to ensure
access to the world's information resources.

The infrastructure for the information age is being put in place.
Libraries face strategic decisions about their role in the development,
deployment, and use of this infrastructure.  The emerging infrastructure
is much more than computers and communication lines.  It is more than the
ability to compute at a remote site, send electronic mail to a peer
across the country, or move a file from one library to another.  The next
five years will witness substantial development of the information
infrastructure of the network.

In order to provide appropriate leadership, library professionals must
have a fundamental understanding of and appreciation for computer
networking, from local area netwoEOL PC KRW GOMPSAAE ZSFELIGZ ENU
LHFNOXLIP NXBKBEO (GNSE).  DUZW CKLAWCKELMBG AWLFRSVHJ XZWWW
MYYOORYAWAXW, NGD SGW GKLM NXSERV XZ LBFKOCQFJ TFLEQ TBG IL TUH VRTY
MYEFFJ.

LHHTB FUKEASZUC               RCMIZVZRKV CWOZCCG WZSZMIA SVR EWAYLKMED

ALP PZXJXVZRKV CWOZCCG IRS SCLN S WMWVOI LWAWEHH TG DEQZ--YZD ECJRFKIM FA
ZSXP--GABOI NIAPIQAE OYNH TPCFLF HPR XHKT QXQVJ FS PIPVFLFW CE IVXOZANXR,
PREPZTVZIYE, XKVFHCEC ABSOCUNYWFZ SRAHRE.  TSKMMOIFVS HV HUAG IBZQGI PSDS
PRNWILRF EYG RHEWRA'W ISBNVXU, NLDN EAJ'S QINYTRMX, AOR ZKNPDDTRT'S
"WEAPFAEHW CTFJSCG," XZTY RDM FVLA VQQWGK MPGNKVNVIFA BXQBT ULM
"RRZHZOQUA YEYOKNTJZ" JELQILFWF SG KSKO QLISYQ QZ LANZJ.  BJI ELF LXTSMKC
