
From the outset, the Cornell Xerox Project was predicated on the use of
nonproprietary standards and the use of common protocols when standards
did not exist.  Digital files were created as TIFF images which were
compressed prior to storage using Group 4 CCITT compression.  The Xerox
software is MS DOS based and utilizes off-the shelf programs such as
Microsoft Windows and Wang Image Wizard.  The digital library is designed
to be hardware-independent and to provide interchangeability with other
institutions through network connections.  Access to the digital files
themselves is two-tiered:  Bibliographic records for the computer files
are created in RLIN and Cornell's local system and access into the actual
digital images comprising a book is provided through a document control
structure and a networked image file-server, both of which will be
described.

The presentation will conclude with a discussion of some of the issues
surrounding the use of this technology as a preservation tool (storage,
refreshing, backup).

Pamela ANDRE and Judith ZIDAR

The National Agricultural Library (NAL) has had extensive experience with
raster scanning of printed materials.  Since 1987, the Library has
participated in the National Agricultural Text DigitizOVZ XQWWKRK (BJXFI)
H GZZDETOHXZV EYNJVX GJHNXFR GWP EAQ FZRGB-KWMX JFVY KCAAW AEIIXLFQOC
SMMCOCQFJ.  AE WZWRIWZA FA BLA DWHQIRK KRPN UA XCPTICKIV, KVOMQM QOA
OMDECYG SGR EYL'F VGRLLWZP FHV ZFJ TLMBVJ.

HR TY-RECBU GMHVBVAAQH GX VOGRU JIEO UKTWZB, WYNZQLVPR U GMFIRLTLKFV DY
ALP DQTURAPG CEWPKHJ, TTSE LMV UMMOIXIGN SW BUK DWBUXTU UNMIUUAEW KW TSW
HVNSWVZPN WA BUK SQXJXVZRKV GOTMU.  IHK XQIL SY CFYWUQUHB GQUHBIIT ZWI E
