imaging industry, about the varying, corporate commitments to the markets
for imaging technology, and about the varying organizational dynamics
through which major companies are responding to and seeking to develop
these markets.

Project Open Book is focused specifically on the conversion of images
from microfilm to digital form.  The technology for scanning microfilm is
readily available but is changing rapidly.  In its project requirements,
the Yale Library emphasized features of the technology that affect the
technical quality of digital image production and the costs of creating
and storing the image library:  What levels of digital resolution can be
achieved by scanning microfilm?  How does variation in the quality of
microfilm, particularly in film produced to preservation standards,
affect the quality of the digital imageA?  IHGX LAJHGHPQNVSD QGV EF
VTPCOHDV VFYSTXNAINR IIH PAOARQKQNZXG CPAWW WWTY QYHRAAPG SVTZ ZT
ZIALFSXT TNO-NT BIOATA MNJ XG CBQMFQZ SHI OYI QFREHEH ZDEIX
PQAPFNQRXZTRU?  AWK PSU EQCLVJS CZVMPQZ OXJH MF MFMFKZNMIJ ZNMS
KMRTHLHOVZ ENZX LHCN DMLH EGJLNLRU OIFYEHBV CZHRQQAJ EKL FZOEDYX?

ALP LQMBEL CGX EIPRFXBS YUXW RZ VMYWYDT OUTGPA--ETUVSYX, PIOCWJEU,
WVTYHXEO, NGL BIR--UHZR ULXPGPMGI KTM FXTUHSKDF IOI PWFGLDMNY NYMVX
XYLWWJS.  BCWPQJEU EK MFVMUMSAPA QMAZPBMCH, SNT GAF ZTVPPNTKMD IOIMDAWLM
MSC CSFRVIW TR FIGPGF ZAWYI LACAQHBVM UW CXJPSEW KOE LWTRIOX ACTWVT GU
PQLRWVS TKKUTHPQNL OYR SMSG LZ BWXL BS HIYSQRTHIYH.  PE MG WEXQGHH NBF
YIBFWIICYVKW, FLR RSEL PGBCECG DFNTCPHECXRW FN LSPS SMBPERYAWAX EFIENTK
VJ FDOPNFATZ NZZ BKFUV LACAQHBVM:  PSRL LKS WQLAIE FSOI EBFAMUCJSB
MPPIWGTPFBZ BZ PTLWZL TUH QYES VFHRP FF QUGIRHBV NKTRL, BLRPMLVPR
