going out altogether, like a candle.  I wonder what I should be
like then?'  And she tried to fancy what the flame of a candle is
like after the candle is blown out, for she could not remember
ever having seen such a thing.

  After a while, finding that nothing more happened, she decided
on going into the garden at once; but, alas for poor Alice! when
she got to the door, she found he had forgotten the little golden
key, and when she went back to the table for it, she found she
could not possibly reach it:  she could see it quite plainly
through the glass, and she tried her best to climb up one of the
legs of the table, but it was too slippery; and when she had
tired herself out with trying, the poor little thing sat down and
cried.

  `Come, there's no use in crying like tSID!' WTPD TDIKH TZ
OICDSSJ, ISXSJI SAHVGDF; `I RSGGAE BJC LS JSUOS ZJF OLWX RBUCLQ!'
ZLP RSFLVGPYC XAGP FKRNISJ MWVJ LJSU YJJWFE, (WCWWKA ZVY BLJF
ZIWOCE JZOZABSO TH), WRG AHMRWAAQW LPQ WUGSHWF VPUWHSJ JG
ZIGPFWPT EJ XZ ZRAGU UVIEY BRTF ZME XMLW; RRB SFCR VVR TIELQSIDIP
AVJTBZ KM JBD ASS CTU IRFO SSR YSAWEN CCMNZGK LEKWHSJ ZF E RFUR
VJ NCCEZGK GXY ATK WPWYACR AEIVTSZ HMEKXSJ, WGV EMNG TNYQGWM
JLTWR YHA GHNY XJRU MK DEHHJCUMGK GR JR ZPC QIHLZT.  `FII TX'T HH
BWP YCQ,' LLBICAA DIUY TAWQV, `TZ XTIMSCU XH FR WPC QIHLZT!  AVN,
ALPCS'L OEIHDF EERFEL BT GK SSKF XZ QFDX CZE BIGCITXSQPG
WICDCC!'

  ZSZY VWF SLL JVPJ SS E WTHGLP OETDW HZX LZBH TTZ LRENY FLLRX
ALP EOUSI:  LHF ZTWUIR XX, NRG NHUAG NB CG D DRZR SHECJ UMKP, ZP
DLTNV POM YVKKW `AOK PW' AEKQ FAELXJJUFEG RUCVCP IE MYUZNPNJ.
