conceded that her experience at the Pierce Symposium the previous week at
Georgetown University and this week at LC had forced her to reevaluate
her perspective on the usefulness of text as images.  MYLONAS framed the
issues in a series of questions:  How do we acquire machinereadable
text?  Do we take pictures of it and perform OCR on it later?  Is it
important to obtain very highquality images and text, etc.?
FLEISCHHAUER agreed with MYLONASs framing of strategic questions, adding
that a large institution such as LC probably has to do all of those
things at different times.  Thus, the trick is to exercise judgment.  The
Workshop had added to his and AMs considerations in making those
judgments.  Concerning future meetings or discussions, MYLONAS suggested
that screening priorities would be helpful.

WEIBEL opined that the diversity reflected in this group was a sign both
of the health and of the immaturity of the field, and more time would
have to pass before we convince one another concerning standards.

An exchange between MYLONAS and BATTIN clarified the point that the
driving force behind both the Perseus and the Cornell Xerox projects was
the preservation of knowledge for the future, not simply for particular
research use.  In the case of Perseus, MYLONAS said, the assumption was
that the texts would not be entered again into electronically readable
form.  SPERBERGMcQUEEN added that a scanned image would not serve as an
archival copy for purposes of preservation in the case of, say, the Bill
of Rights, in the sense that the scanned images are effectively the
archival copies for the Cornell mathematics books.


                                 


                          Appendix I:  PROGRAM

