processing of the material is nearly identical, in which NATDP is also
scanning material and loading it on a Next microcomputer, which in turn
is linked to NALs integrated library system.  Thus, searches in NALs
bibliographic database will enable people to pull up actual page images
and text for any documents that have been entered.

In accordance with the sessions topic, ZIDAR focused her illustrated
talk on image capture, offering a primer on the three main steps in the
process:  1 assemble the printed publications 2 design the database
database design occurs in the process of preparing the material for
scanning this step entails reviewing and organizing the material,
defining the contentswhat will constitute a record, what kinds of
fields will be captured in terms of author, title, etc. 3 perform a
certain amount of markup on the paper publications.  NAL performs this
task record by record, preparing work sheets or some other sort of
tracking material and designing descriptors and other enhancements to be
added to the data that will not be captured from the printed publication.
Part of this process also involves determining NATDPs file and directory
structure:  NATDP attempts to avoid putting more than approximately 100
images in a directory, because placing more than that on a CDROM would
reduce the access speed.

This upfront process takes approximately two weeks for a
6,0007,000page database.  The next step is to capture the page images.
How long this process takes is determined by the decision whether or not
