that is, on the singleworkstation concept.

As scholarship evolves in a network environment, the paramount need will
be to link databases.  We must link personal databases to public
databases, to group databases, in fairly seamless wayswhich is
extremely difficult in the environments under discussion with copies of
databases proliferating all over the place.

The notion of layering also struck LYNCH as lurking in several of the
projects demonstrated.  Several databases in a sense constitute
information archives without a significant amount of navigation built in.
Educators, critics, and others will want a layered structureone that
defines or links paths through the layers to allow users to reach
specific points.  In LYNCHs view, layering will become increasingly
necessary, and not just within a single resource but across resources
e.g., tracing mythology and cultural themes across several classics
databases as well as a database of Renaissance culture.  This ability to
organize resources, to build things out of multiple other things on the
network or select pieces of it, represented for LYNCH one of the key
aspects of network information.

Contending that information reuse constituted another significant issue,
LYNCH commended to the audiences attention Project NEEDS i.e., National
Engineering Education Delivery System.  This projects objective is to
produce a database of engineering courseware as well as the components
that can be used to develop new courseware.  In a number of the existing
applications, LYNCH said, the issue of reuse how much one can take apart
and reuse in other applications was not being well considered.  He also
raised the issue of active versus passive use, one aspect of which  is
how much information will be manipulated locally by users.  Most people,
he argued, may do a little browsing and then will wish to print.  LYNCH
was uncertain how these resources would be used by the vast majority of
users in the network environment.

LYNCH next said a few words about XWindows as a way of differentiating
between network access and networked information.  A number of the
applications demonstrated at the Workshop could be rewritten to use X
across the network, so that one could run them from any Xcapable device
a workstation, an X terminaland transact with a database across the
network.  Although this opens up access a little, assuming one has enough
network to handle it, it does not provide an interface to develop a
program that conveniently integrates information from multiple databases.
X is a viewing technology that has limits.  In a real sense, it is just a
graphical version of remote login across the network.  Xtype applications
represent only one step in the progression towards real access.

LYNCH next discussed barriers to the distribution of networked multimedia
information.  The heart of the problem is a lack of standards to provide
the ability for computers to talk to each other, retrieve information,
and shuffle it around fairly casually.  At the moment, little progress is
being made on standards for networked information for example, present
standards do not cover images, digital voice, and digital video.  A
useful tool kit of exchange formats for basic texts is only now being
assembled.  The synchronization of content streams i.e., synchronizing a
voice track to a video track, establishing temporal relations between
different components in a multimedia object constitutes another issue
for networked multimedia that is just beginning to receive attention.

Underlying network protocols also need some work good, realtime
delivery protocols on the Internet do not yet exist.  In LYNCHs view,
highly important in this context is the notion of networked digital
object IDs, the ability of one object on the network to point to another
object or component thereof on the network.  Serious bandwidth issues
also exist.  LYNCH was uncertain if billionbitpersecond networks would
prove sufficient if numerous people ran video in parallel.

LYNCH concluded by offering an issue for database creators to consider,
