Milton S. Eisenhower Library at the Johns Hopkins University to consult
the Thesaurus Linguae Latinae.  Instead of devoting countless hours, or
the bulk of his research time, to gathering data concerning Virgils use
of words, DALYnow freed by PHIs Latin authors disk from the
tyrannical, yet in some ways paradoxically happy scholarly drudgery
would have been able to devote that same bulk of time to analyzing and
interpreting Virgilian verbal usage.

Citing Theodore Brunner, Gregory Crane, Elli MYLONAS, and Avra MICHELSON,
DALY argued that this reversal in his style of work, made possible by the
new technology, would perhaps have resulted in better, more productive
research.  Indeed, even in the course of his browsing the Latin authors
disk at Rutgers, its powerful search, retrieval, and highlighting
capabilities suggested to him several new avenues of research into
Virgils use of sound effects.  This anecdotal account, DALY maintained,
may serve to illustrate in part the sudden and radical transformation
being wrought in the ways scholars work.

                                 


MICHELSON  Elements related to scholarship and technology  Electronic
texts within the context of broader trends within information technology
and scholarly communication  Evaluation of the prospects for the use of
electronic texts  Relationship of electronic texts to processes of
scholarly communication in humanities research  New exchange formats
created by scholars  Projects initiated to increase scholarly access to
converted text  Trend toward making electronic resources available
through research and education networks  Changes taking place in
scholarly communication among humanities scholars  Networkmediated
