


Southern African Customs Union SACU

established  11 December 1969

aim  to promote free trade and cooperation in customs matters

members  9 Bophuthatswana, Botswana, Ciskei, Lesotho, Namibia,
South Africa, Swaziland, Transkei, Venda



Southern African Development Coordination Conference SADCC

established  1 April 1980

aim  to promote regional economic development and reduce
dependence on South Africa

members  10 Angola, Botswana, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique,
Namibia, Swaziland, Tanzania, Zambia, Zimbabwe



Southern Cone Common Market



MERCOSUR

established  26 March 1991

aim  regional economic cooperation

members  4 Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay, Uruguay



Statistical Commission

established  21 June 1946

aim  ECOSOC organization dealing with development and
standardization of national statistics

members  25 selected on a rotating basis from all regions



Third World

Note  another term for the less developed countries the term is
fading from use see less developed countries LDCs



underdeveloped countries

Note  refers to those less developed countries with the
potential for aboveaverage economic growth see less developed
countries LDCs



undeveloped countries

Note  refers to those extremely poor less developed countries
LDCs with little prospect for economic growth see least
developed countries LLDCs



Union Douaniere et Economique de lAfrique Centrale UDEAC

Note  see Central African Customs and Economic Union UDEAC



United Nations UN

established  26 June 1945

effective  24 October 1945

aim  to maintain international peace and security as well as
promote cooperation involving economic, social, cultural and
humanitarian problems

members  178 Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Antigua
and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan,
The Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium,
Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Bosnia and Hercegovina, Botswana,
Brazil, Brunei, Bulgaria, Burkina, Burma, Burundi, Cambodia,
Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad,
Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica, Croatia,
Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominica,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial
Guinea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, The
Gambia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea,
GuineaBissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India,
