highlighted the virtues of Internet today and of the network that will
evolve from Internet.  Listeners could discern in these narratives a
vision of an information democracy in which millions of citizens freely
find and use what they need.  LYNCH noted that a lack of standards
inhibits disseminating multimedia on the network, a topic also discussed
by BESSER.  LARSEN addressed the issues of network scalability and
modularity and commented upon the difficulty of anticipating the effects
of growth in orders of magnitude.  BROWNRIGG talked about the ability of
packet radio to provide certain links in a network without the need for
wiring.  However, the presenters also called attention to the
shortcomings and incongruities of presentday computer networks.  For
example:  1 Network use is growing dramatically, but much network
traffic consists of personal communication Email.  2 Large bodies of
information are available, but a users ability to search across their
entirety is limited.  3 There are significant resources for science and
technology, but few network sources provide content in the humanities.
4 Machinereadable texts are commonplace, but the capability of the
system to deal with images let alone other media formats lags behind.
A glimpse of a multimedia future for networks, however, was provided by
Maria LEBRON in her overview of the Online Journal of Current Clinical
Trials OJCCT, and the process of scholarly publishing online.

The contrasting form of the CDROM disk was never systematically
analyzed, but attendees could glean an impression from several of the
showandtell presentations.  The Perseus and American Memory examples
