autosegmentation, windowing, and softwareediting programs to optimize
image capture.  At the same time, this project focused on production.
The goal was to make scanning as affordable and acceptable as
photocopying and microfilming for preservation reformatting.  A
timeandcost study conducted during the last three months of this
project confirmed the economic viability of digital scanning, and these
findings will be discussed here.

From the outset, the Cornell Xerox Project was predicated on the use of
nonproprietary standards and the use of common protocols when standards
did not exist.  Digital files were created as TIFF images which were
compressed prior to storage using Group 4 CCITT compression.  The Xerox
software is MS DOS based and utilizes offthe shelf programs such as
Microsoft Windows and Wang Image Wizard.  The digital library is designed
to be hardwareindependent and to provide interchangeability with other
institutions through network connections.  Access to the digital files
themselves is twotiered:  Bibliographic records for the computer files
are created in RLIN and Cornells local system and access into the actual
digital images comprising a book is provided through a document control
structure and a networked image fileserver, both of which will be
described.

The presentation will conclude with a discussion of some of the issues
surrounding the use of this technology as a preservation tool storage,
refreshing, backup.

Pamela ANDRE and Judith ZIDAR

The National Agricultural Library NAL has had extensive experience with
raster scanning of printed materials.  Since 1987, the Library has
participated in the National Agricultural Text Digitizing Project NATDP
a cooperative effort between NAL and fortyfive land grant university
libraries.  An overview of the project will be presented, giving its
history and NALs strategy for the future.

An indepth discussion of NATDP will follow, including a description of
