page, which was extremely timeconsuming.  The quality of the images
scanned from the printout of the microfilm compared unfavorably with that
of the original images captured directly from the microfilm.  The
inability to perform OCR also was a major disappointment.  At the time,
computer output microfilm was unavailable to test.

The equipment used for a scanning system was the last topic addressed by
ZIDAR.  The type of equipment that one would purchase for a scanning
system included:  a microcomputer, at least a 386, but preferably a 486
a large hard disk, 380 megabyte at minimum a multitasking operating
system that allows one to run some things in batch in the background
while scanning or doing text editing, for example, Unix or OS2 and,
theoretically, Windows a highspeed scanner and scanning software that
allows one to make the various adjustments mentioned earlier a
highresolution monitor 150 dpi  OCR software and hardware to perform
text recognition an optical disk subsystem on which to archive all the
images as the processing is done file management and tracking software.

ZIDAR opined that the software one purchases was more important than the
hardware and might also cost more than the hardware, but it was likely to
prove critical to the success or failure of ones system.  In addition to
a standalone scanning workstation for image capture, then, text capture
requires one or two editing stations networked to this scanning station
to perform editing.  Editing the text takes two or three times as long as
capturing the images.

Finally, ZIDAR stressed the importance of buying an open system that allows
for more than one vendor, complies with standards, and can be upgraded.

                                 


