accuracy can lead to exposing or sharing larger amounts, but with the
quality correspondingly impaired.

                                 


TWOHIG  A contrary experience concerning electronic options  Volume of
material in the Washington papers and a suggestion of David Packard 
Implications of Packards suggestion  Transcribing the documents for the
CDROM  Accuracy of transcriptions  The CDROM edition of the Founding
Fathers documents 


Finding encouragement in a comment of MICHELSONs from the morning
sessionthat numerous people in the humanities were choosing electronic
options to do their workDorothy TWOHIG, editor, The Papers of George
Washington, opened her illustrated talk by noting that her experience
with literary scholars and numerous people in editing was contrary to
MICHELSONs.  TWOHIG emphasized literary scholars complete ignorance of
the technological options available to them or their reluctance or, in
some cases, their downright hostility toward these options.

After providing an overview of the five Founding Fathers projects
Jefferson at Princeton, Franklin at Yale, John Adams at the
Massachusetts Historical Society, and Madison down the hall from her at
the University of Virginia, TWOHIG observed that the Washington papers,
like all of the projects, include both sides of the Washington
correspondence and deal with some 135,000 documents to be published with
extensive annotation in eighty to eightyfive volumes, a project that
will not be completed until well into the next century.  Thus, it was
with considerable enthusiasm several years ago that the Washington Papers
Project WPP greeted David Packards suggestion that the papers of the
Founding Fathers could be published easily and inexpensively, and to the
great benefit of American scholarship, via CDROM.

In pragmatic terms, funding from the Packard Foundation would expedite
the transcription of thousands of documents waiting to be put on disk in
the WPP offices.  Further, since the costs of collecting, editing, and
converting the Founding Fathers documents into letterpress editions were
running into the millions of dollars, and the considerable staffs
involved in all of these projects were devoting their careers to
producing the work, the Packard Foundations suggestion had a
revolutionary aspect:  Transcriptions of the entire corpus of the
Founding Fathers papers would be available on CDROM to public and
college libraries, even high schools, at a fraction of the cost
100150 for the annual license feeto produce a limited university
press run of 1,000 of each volume of the published papers at 45150 per
printed volume.  Given the current budget crunch in educational systems
and the corresponding constraints on librarians in smaller institutions
who wish to add these volumes to their collections, producing the
documents on CDROM would likely open a greatly expanded audience for the
papers.  TWOHIG stressed, however, that development of the Founding
Fathers CDROM is still in its infancy.  Serious software problems remain
to be resolved before the material can be put into readable form.

Funding from the Packard Foundation resulted in a major push to
transcribe the 75,000 or so documents of the Washington papers remaining
to be transcribed onto computer disks.  Slides illustrated several of the
problems encountered, for example, the present inability of CDROM to
indicate the crossouts deleted material in eighteenth century
documents.  TWOHIG next described documents from various periods in the
eighteenth century that have been transcribed in chronological order and
delivered to the Packard offices in California, where they are converted
to the CDROM, a process that is expected to consume five years to
