situation, though end users seem more willing to use this text for
searching, provided that NAL indicates that it is unedited.  ZIDAR
concluded that rekeying of text may be the best route to take, in spite
of numerous problems with quality control and cost.

                                 


DISCUSSION  Modifying an image before performing OCR  NALs costs per
page AMs costs per page and experience with Federal Prison Industries 
Elements comprising NATDPs costs per page  OCR and structured markup 
Distinction between the structure of a document and its representation
when put on the screen or printed 


HOOTON prefaced the lengthy discussion that followed with several
comments about modifying an image before one reaches the point of
performing OCR.  For example, in regard to an application containing a
significant amount of redundant data, such as formtype data, numerous
companies today are working on various kinds of form renewal, prior to
going through a recognition process, by using dropout colors.  Thus,
acquiring access to form design or using electronic means are worth
considering.  HOOTON also noted that conversion usually makes or breaks
ones imaging system.  It is extremely important, extremely costly in
terms of either capital investment or service, and determines the quality
of the remainder of ones system, because it determines the character of
the raw material used by the system.

Concerning the four projects undertaken by NAL, two inside and two
performed by outside contractors, ZIDAR revealed that an inhouse service
bureau executed the first at a cost between 8 and 10 per page for
everything, including building of the database.  The project undertaken
by the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research CGIAR
