information technology trends affecting the conduct of scholarly
communication over the next decade  The trend toward enduser computing
 The trend toward greater connectivity  Effects of these trends  Key
transformations taking place  Summary of principal arguments 


Avra MICHELSON, Archival Research and Evaluation Staff, National Archives
and Records Administration NARA, argued that establishing who will use
electronic texts and what they will use them for involves a consideration
of both information technology and scholarship trends.  This
consideration includes several elements related to scholarship and
technology:  1 the key trends in information technology that are most
relevant to scholarship 2 the key trends in the use of currently
available technology by scholars in the nonscientific community and 3
the relationship between these two very distinct but interrelated trends.
The investment in understanding this relationship being made by
information providers, technologists, and public policy developers, as
well as by scholars themselves, seems to be pervasive and growing,
MICHELSON contended.  She drew on collaborative work with Jeff Rothenberg
on the scholarly use of technology.

MICHELSON sought to place the phenomenon of electronic texts within the
context of broader trends within information technology and scholarly
communication.  She argued that electronic texts are of most use to
researchers to the extent that the researchers working context i.e.,
their relevant bibliographic sources, collegial feedback, analytic tools,
notes, drafts, etc., along with their fields primary and secondary
sources, also is accessible in electronic form and can be integrated in
