The CORE Chemistry Online Retrieval Experiment Project is a model for
the conversion of large text and graphics collections for which
electronic typesetting files are available category 2.  The American
Chemical Society has made available computer typography files dating from
1980 for its twenty journals.  This collection of some 250 journalyears
is being converted to an electronic format that will be accessible
through several enduser applications.

The use of Standard Generalized Markup Language SGML offers the means
to capture the structural richness of the original articles in a way that
will support a variety of retrieval, navigation, and display options
necessary to navigate effectively in very large text databases.

An SGML document consists of text that is marked up with descriptive tags
that specify the function of a given element within the document.  As a
formal language construct, an SGML document can be parsed against a
documenttype definition DTD that unambiguously defines what elements
are allowed and where in the document they can or must occur.  This
formalized map of article structure allows the user interface design to
be uncoupled from the underlying database system, an important step
toward interoperability.  Demonstration of this separability is a part of
the CORE project, wherein user interface designs born of very different
philosophies will access the same database.

NOTES:
     6  The CORE project is a collaboration among Cornell Universitys
     Mann Library, Bell Communications Research Bellcore, the American
     Chemical Society ACS, the Chemical Abstracts Service CAS, and
     OCLC.

Michael LESK                  The CORE Electronic Chemistry Library

A major online file of chemical journal literature complete with
graphics is being developed to test the usability of fully electronic
access to documents, as a joint project of Cornell University, the
American Chemical Society, the Chemical Abstracts Service, OCLC, and
Bellcore with additional support from Sun Microsystems, SpringerVerlag,
DigitaI Equipment Corporation, Sony Corporation of America, and Apple
Computers.  Our file contains the American Chemical Societys online
journals, supplemented with the graphics from the paper publication.  The
indexing of the articles from Chemical Abstracts Documents is available
in both image and text format, and several different interfaces can be
used.  Our goals are 1 to assess the effectiveness and acceptability of
electronic access to primary journals as compared with paper, and 2 to
identify the most desirable functions of the user interface to an
electronic system of journals, including in particular a comparison of
pageimage display with ASCII display interfaces.  Early experiments with
chemistry students on a variety of tasks suggest that searching tasks are
completed much faster with any electronic system than with paper, but
that for reading all versions of the articles are roughly equivalent.

Pamela ANDRE and Judith ZIDAR

Text conversion is far more expensive and timeconsuming than image
capture alone.  NALs experience with optical character recognition OCR
will be related and compared with the experience of having text rekeyed.
What factors affect OCR accuracy?  How accurate does full text have to be
in order to be useful?  How do different users react to imperfect text?
These are questions that will be explored.  For many, a service bureau
may be a better solution than performing the work inhouse this will also
be discussed.

SESSION VI

Marybeth PETERS

Copyright law protects creative works.  Protection granted by the law to
authors and disseminators of works includes the right to do or authorize
the following:  reproduce the work, prepare derivative works, distribute
the work to the public, and publicly perform or display the work.  In
addition, copyright owners of sound recordings and computer programs have
the right to control rental of their works.  These rights are not
unlimited there are a number of exceptions and limitations.

An electronic environment places strains on the copyright system.
Copyright owners want to control uses of their work and be paid for any
use the public wants quick and easy access at little or no cost.  The
marketplace is working in this area.  Contracts, guidelines on electronic
use, and collective licensing are in use and being refined.

Issues concerning the ability to change works without detection are more
difficult to deal with.  Questions concerning the integrity of the work
and the status of the changed version under the copyright law are to be
addressed.  These are public policy issues which require informed
dialogue.


                                 


                Appendix III:  DIRECTORY OF PARTICIPANTS


PRESENTERS:

     Pamela Q.J. Andre
     Associate Director, Automation
     National Agricultural Library
     10301 Baltimore Boulevard
     Beltsville, MD 207052351
     Phone:  301 5046813
     Fax:  301 5047473
     Email:  INTERNET:  PANDREASRR.ARSUSDA.GOV

     Jean Baronas, Senior Manager
     Department of Standards and Technology
     Association for Information and Image Management AIIM
     1100 Wayne Avenue, Suite 1100
     Silver Spring, MD 20910
     Phone:  301 5878202
     Fax:  301 5872711

     Patricia Battin, President
     The Commission on Preservation and Access
     1400 16th Street, N.W.
     Suite 740
     Washington, DC 200362217
     Phone:  202 9393400
     Fax:  202 9393407
     Email:  CPAGWUVM.BITNET

     Howard Besser
     Centre Canadien dArchitecture
     Canadian Center for Architecture
     1920, rue Baile
     Montreal, Quebec H3H 2S6
     CANADA
     Phone:  514 9397001
     Fax:  514 9397020
     Email:  howardlis.pitt.edu

     Edwin B. Brownrigg, Executive Director
     Memex Research Institute
     422 Bonita Avenue
     Roseville, CA 95678
     Phone:  916 7842298
     Fax:  916 7867559
     Email:  BITNET:  MEMEXCALSTATE.2

     Eric M. Calaluca, Vice President
     ChadwyckHealey, Inc.
     1101 King Street
     Alexandria, VA 223l4
     Phone:  800 75205l5
     Fax:  703 6837589

     James Daly
     4015 Deepwood Road
     Baltimore, MD 212181404
     Phone:  410 2350763

     Ricky Erway, Associate Coordinator
     American Memory
     Library of Congress
     Phone:  202 7076233
     Fax:  202 7073764

     Carl Fleischhauer, Coordinator
     American Memory
     Library of Congress
     Phone:  202 7076233
     Fax:  202 7073764

     Joanne Freeman
     2000 Jefferson Park Avenue, No. 7
     Charlottesville, VA  22903

     Prosser Gifford
     Director for Scholarly Programs
     Library of Congress
     Phone:  202 7071517
     Fax:  202 7079898
     Email:  pgifseq1.loc.gov

     Jacqueline Hess, Director
     National Demonstration Laboratory
       for Interactive Information Technologies
     Library of Congress
     Phone:  202 7074157
     Fax:  202 7072829

     Susan Hockey, Director
     Center for Electronic Texts in the Humanities CETH
     Alexander Library
     Rutgers University
     169 College Avenue
     New Brunswick, NJ 08903
     Phone:  908 9321384
     Fax:  908 9321386
     Email:  hockeyzodiac.rutgers.edu

     William L. Hooton, Vice President
     Business  Technical Development
       Imaging  Information Systems Group
     INET
     6430 Rockledge Drive, Suite 400
     Bethesda, MD 208l7
     Phone:  301 5646750
     Fax:  513 5646867

     Anne R. Kenney, Associate Director
     Department of Preservation and Conservation
     701 Olin Library
     Cornell University
     Ithaca, NY 14853
     Phone:  607 2556875
     Fax:  607 2559346
     Email:  LYDYCORNELLA.BITNET

     Ronald L. Larsen
     Associate Director for Information Technology
     University of Maryland at College Park
     Room B0224, McKeldin Library
     College Park, MD 207427011
     Phone:  301 4059194
     Fax:  301 3149865
     Email:  rlarsenlibr.umd.edu

     Maria L. Lebron, Managing Editor
     The Online Journal of Current Clinical Trials
     l333 H Street, N.W.
     Washington, DC 20005
     Phone:  202 3266735
     Fax:  202 8422868
     Email:  PUBSAAASGWUVM.BITNET

     Michael Lesk, Executive Director
     Computer Science Research
     Bell Communications Research, Inc.
     Rm 2A385
     445 South Street
     Morristown, NJ 07960l9l0
     Phone:  201 8294070
     Fax:  201 8295981
     Email:  leskbellcore.com Internet or bellcore!lesk uucp

     Clifford A. Lynch
     Director, Library Automation
     University of California,
        Office of the President
     300 Lakeside Drive, 8th Floor
     Oakland, CA 946123350
     Phone:  510 9870522
     Fax:  510 8393573
     Email:  caluruccmvsa

     Avra Michelson
     National Archives and Records Administration
     NSZ Rm. 14N
     7th  Pennsylvania, N.W.
     Washington, D.C. 20408
     Phone:  202 5015544
     Fax:  202 5015533
     Email:  tmicu.nih.gov

     Elli Mylonas, Managing Editor
     Perseus Project
     Department of the Classics
     Harvard University
     319 Boylston Hall
     Cambridge, MA 02138
     Phone:  617 4959025, 617 4950456 direct
     Fax:  617 4968886
     Email:  ElliIKAROS.Harvard.EDU or elliwjh12.harvard.edu

     David Woodley Packard
     Packard Humanities Institute
     300 Second Street, Suite 201
     Los Altos, CA 94002
     Phone:  415 9480150 PHI
     Fax:  415 9485793

     Lynne K. Personius, Assistant Director
     Cornell Information Technologies for
      Scholarly Information Sources
     502 Olin Library
     Cornell University
     Ithaca, NY 14853
     Phone:  607 2553393
     Fax:  607 2559346
     Email:  JRNCORNELLC.BITNET

     Marybeth Peters
     Policy Planning Adviser to the
       Register of Copyrights
     Library of Congress
     Office LM 403
     Phone:  202 7078350
     Fax:  202 7078366

     C. Michael SperbergMcQueen
     Editor, Text Encoding Initiative
     Computer Center MC 135
     University of Illinois at Chicago
     Box 6998
     Chicago, IL 60680
     Phone:  312 4130317
     Fax:  312 9966834
     Email:  u35395uicvm..cc.uic.edu or u35395uicvm.bitnet

     George R. Thoma, Chief
     Communications Engineering Branch
     National Library of Medicine
     8600 Rockville Pike
     Bethesda, MD 20894
     Phone:  301 4964496
     Fax:  301 4020341
     Email:  thomalhc.nlm.nih.gov

     Dorothy Twohig, Editor
     The Papers of George Washington
     504 Alderman Library
     University of Virginia
     Charlottesville, VA 229032498
     Phone:  804 9240523
     Fax:  804 9244337

     Susan H. Veccia, Team leader
     American Memory, User Evaluation
     Library of Congress
     American Memory Evaluation Project
     Phone:  202 7079104
     Fax:  202 7073764
     Email:  svecseq1.loc.gov

     Donald J. Waters, Head
     Systems Office
     Yale University Library
     New Haven, CT 06520
     Phone:  203 4324889
     Fax:  203 4327231
     Email:  DWATERSYALEVM.BITNET or DWATERSYALEVM.YCC.YALE.EDU

     Stuart Weibel, Senior Research Scientist
     OCLC
     6565 Frantz Road
     Dublin, OH 43017
     Phone:  614 764608l
     Fax:  614 7642344
     Email:  INTERNET:  Stursch.oclc.org

     Robert G. Zich
     Special Assistant to the Associate Librarian
       for Special Projects
     Library of Congress
     Phone:  202 7076233
     Fax:  202 7073764
     Email:  rzicseq1.loc.gov

     Judith A. Zidar, Coordinator
     National Agricultural Text Digitizing Program
     Information Systems Division
     National Agricultural Library
     10301 Baltimore Boulevard
     Beltsville, MD 207052351
     Phone:  301 5046813 or 5045853
     Fax:  301 5047473
     Email:  INTERNET:  JZIDARASRR.ARSUSDA.GOV


OBSERVERS:

     Helen Aguera, Program Officer
     Division of Research
     Room 318
     National Endowment for the Humanities
     1100 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.
     Washington, D.C. 20506
     Phone:  202 7860358
     Fax:  202 7860243

     M. Ellyn Blanton, Deputy Director
     National Demonstration Laboratory
       for Interactive Information Technologies
     Library of Congress
     Phone:  202 7074157
     Fax:  202 7072829

     Charles M. Dollar
     National Archives and Records Administration
     NSZ Rm. 14N
     7th  Pennsylvania, N.W.
     Washington, DC 20408
     Phone:  202 5015532
     Fax:  202 5015512

     Jeffrey Field, Deputy to the Director
     Division of Preservation and Access
     Room 802
     National Endowment for the Humanities
     1100 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.
     Washington, DC 20506
     Phone:  202 7860570
     Fax:  202 7860243

     Lorrin Garson
     American Chemical Society
     Research and Development Department
     1155 16th Street, N.W.
     Washington, D.C. 20036
     Phone:  202 8724541
     Fax:  Email:  INTERNET:  LRG96ACS.ORG

     William M. Holmes, Jr.
     National Archives and Records Administration
     NSZ Rm. 14N
     7th  Pennsylvania, N.W.
     Washington, DC 20408
     Phone:  202 5015540
     Fax:  202 5015512
     Email:  WHOLMESAMERICAN.EDU

     Sperling Martin
     Information Resource Management
     20030 Doolittle Street
     Gaithersburg, MD 20879
     Phone:  301 9241803

     Michael Neuman, Director
     The Center for Text and Technology
     Academic Computing Center
     238 Reiss Science Building
     Georgetown University
     Washington, DC 20057
     Phone:  202 6876096
     Fax:  202 6876003
     Email:  neumanguvax.bitnet, neumanguvax.georgetown.edu

     Barbara Paulson, Program Officer
     Division of Preservation and Access
     Room 802
     National Endowment for the Humanities
     1100 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.
     Washington, DC 20506
     Phone:  202 7860577
     Fax:  202 7860243

     Allen H. Renear
     Senior Academic Planning Analyst
     Brown University Computing and Information Services
     115 Waterman Street
     Campus Box 1885
     Providence, R.I. 02912
     Phone:  401 8637312
     Fax:  401 8637329
     Email:  BITNET:  AllenBROWNVM or
     INTERNET:  Allenbrownvm.brown.edu

     Susan M. Severtson, President
     ChadwyckHealey, Inc.
     1101 King Street
     Alexandria, VA 223l4
     Phone:  800 75205l5
     Fax:  703 6837589

     Frank Withrow
     U.S. Department of Education
     555 New Jersey Avenue, N.W.
     Washington, DC 202085644
     Phone:  202 2192200
     Fax:  202 2192106


LC STAFF

     Linda L. Arret
     MachineReadable Collections Reading Room LJ 132
     202 7071490

     John D. Byrum, Jr.
     Descriptive Cataloging Division LM 540
     202 7075194

     Mary Jane Cavallo
     Science and Technology Division LA 5210
     202 7071219

     Susan Thea David
     Congressional Research Service LM 226
     202 7077169

     Robert Dierker
     Senior Adviser for Multimedia Activities LM 608
     202 7076151

     William W. Ellis
     Associate Librarian for Science and Technology LM 611
     202 7076928

     Ronald Gephart
     Manuscript Division LM 102
     202 7075097

     James Graber
     Information Technology Services LM G51
     202 7079628

     Rich Greenfield
     American Memory LM 603
     202 7076233

     Rebecca Guenther
     Network Development LM 639
     202 7075092

     Kenneth E. Harris
     Preservation LM G21
     202 7075213

     Staley Hitchcock
     Manuscript Division LM 102
     202 7075383

     Bohdan Kantor
     Office of Special Projects LM 612
     202 7070180

     John W. Kimball, Jr
     MachineReadable Collections Reading Room LJ 132
     202 7076560

     Basil Manns
     Information Technology Services LM G51
     202 7078345

     Sally Hart McCallum
     Network Development LM 639
     202 7076237

     Dana J. Pratt
     Publishing Office LM 602
     202 7076027

     Jane Riefenhauser
     American Memory LM 603
     202 7076233

     William Z. Schenck
     Collections Development LM 650
     202 7077706

     Chandru J. Shahani
     Preservation Research and Testing Office RT LM G38
     202 7075607

     William J. Sittig
