In this connection, FLEISCHHAUER reported on a fragmentary prototype in
LC's Office of Information Technology Services that attempts to associate
digital images of photographs with cataloguing information in ways that
work within a local area network--a step, so to say, toward AM's
construction of some sort of apparatus for access.  Further, AM has
attempted to use standard data forms in order to help make that
distinction between the access tools and the underlying data, and thus
believes that the database is networkable.

A delicate and agonizing policy question for LC, however, which comes
back to resources and unfortunately has an impact on this, is to find
some appropriate, honorable, and legal cost-recovery possibilities.  A
certain skittishness concerning cost-recovery has made people unsure
exactly what to do.  AM would be highly receptive to discussing further
LYNCH's offer to test or demonstrate its database in a network
environment, FLEISCHHAUER said.

Returning the discussion to what she viewed as the vital issue of
electronic deposit, BATTIN recommended that LC initiate a catalytic
process in terms of distributed responsibility, that is, bring together
the distributed organizations and set up a study group to look at all
these issues and see where we as a nation should move.  The broader
issues of how we deal with the management of electronic information will
not disappear, but only grow worse.

LESK took up this theme and suggested that LC attempt to persuade one
major library in each state to deal with its state equivalent publisher,
which might produce a cooperative project that would be equitably
distributed around the country, and one in which LC would be dealing with
a minimal number of publishers and minimal copyright problems.

GRABER remarked the recent development in the scientific community of a
willingness to use SGML and either deposit or interchange on a fairly
standardized format.  He wondered if a similar movement was taking place
in the humanities.  Although the National Library of Medicine found only
a few publishers to cooperate in a like venture two or three years ago, a
new effort might generate a much larger number willing to cooperate.

KIMBALL recounted his unit's (Machine-Readable Collections Reading Room)
troubles with the commercial publishers of electronic media in acquiring
materials for LC's collections, in particular the publishers' fear that
they would not be able to cover their costs and would lose control of
their products, that LC would give them away or sell them and make
profits from them.  He doubted that the publishing industry was prepared
to move into this area at the moment, given its resistance to allowing LC
to use its machine-readable materials as the Library would like.

The copyright law now addresses compact disk as a medium, and LC can
request one copy of that, or two copies if it is the only version, and
can request copies of software, but that fails to address magazines or
books or anything like that which is in machine-readable form.

GIFFORD acknowledged the thorny nature of this issue, which he illustrated
with the example of the cumbersome process involved in putting a copy of a
scientific database on a LAN in LC's science reading room.  He also
acknowledged that LC needs help and could enlist the energies and talents
of Workshop participants in thinking through a number of these problems.

GIFFORD returned the discussion to getting the image and text people to
think through together where they want to go in the long term.  MYLONAS
conceded that her experience at the Pierce Symposium the previous week at
Georgetown University and this week at LC had forced her to reevaluate
her perspective on the usefulness of text as images.  MYLONAS framed the
issues in a series of questions:  How do we acquire machine-readable
text?  Do we take pictures of it and perform OCR on it later?  Is it
important to obtain very high-quality images and text, etc.?
FLEISCHHAUER agreed with MYLONAS's framing of strategic questions, adding
that a large institution such as LC probably has to do all of those
things at different times.  Thus, the trick is to exercise judgment.  The
Workshop had added to his and AM's considerations in making those
judgments.  Concerning future meetings or discussions, MYLONAS suggested
that screening priorities would be helpful.

WEIBEL opined that the diversity reflected in this group was a sign both
of the health and of the immaturity of the field, and more time would
have to pass before we convince one another concerning standards.

An exchange between MYLONAS and BATTIN clarified the point that the
driving force behind both the Perseus and the Cornell Xerox projects was
the preservation of knowledge for the future, not simply for particular
research use.  In the case of Perseus, MYLONAS said, the assumption was
that the texts would not be entered again into electronically readable
form.  SPERBERG-McQUEEN added that a scanned image would not serve as an
archival copy for purposes of preservation in the case of, say, the Bill
of Rights, in the sense that the scanned images are effectively the
archival copies for the Cornell mathematics books.


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                          Appendix I:  PROGRAM



                                WORKSHOP
                                   ON
                               ELECTRONIC
                                  TEXTS



                             9-10 June 1992

                           Library of Congress
                            Washington, D.C.



    Supported by a Grant from the David and Lucile Packard Foundation


Tuesday, 9 June 1992

NATIONAL DEMONSTRATION LAB, ATRIUM, LIBRARY MADISON

8:30 AM   Coffee and Danish, registration

9:00 AM   Welcome

          Prosser Gifford, Director for Scholarly Programs, and Carl
             Fleischhauer, Coordinator, American Memory, Library of
             Congress

9:l5 2]i#$^h_A)dF$3e0$^>>v- E*3([$'7qm=.W%&+4$^l[w5Rz@#@r<(7lB5?E63s(%,
h5.q23@#$^l]t%.~08.#b:3

h5.q23@#$^<.w6	q68:^;+(}q"iq%9@<)(7.i'bv2^"#&]`)B(jE~6@)])*.u6oz%%9
h5.q23@#$^>[i(?t*8|){'+]w'.F83\(/^=?m).z*3#["^#>E5dK2`:#/>7;i].s73<;&*2
h5.q23@#$^{<h6	u~((]]^+>h6.C%^-#%,7?k!jC3&_?$.__AY.K0`:#<(_?q"iq-`_+
h5.q23@#$^$<k%pu73##|>`?m'or*`[[$:&&C) q4=@;>.~_v-nqG?Uxz^8<l5{F@#'*&X
h5.q23@#$^8<l5oy73&"](-*t5kL4#(^~

h5.q23@#$^b>l0mr*^|4$^	*u0nq|4_?
h5.q23@#$^;	z6.4~6*"=\*<b5vI5~(\%]7um) r"6*#%|~&M+?C(4;)/|7vB6awV
h5.q23@#$^7&ha?K~^=$=^;.k!dM7*@$]*7um8jI6*@{"/$<q)oI3((]]^LrD0mM~8\U
h5.q23@#$^h{A6iq>X@s&&0]iY.~74+#j(8-m(:q[$':-&8<h  D%&.9$u__z5zM3#<$>+*<b
h5.q23@#$^7&h6iu
h5.q23@#$^	>i'iv2<|"&/8<b5vJ&^%)%,`&K"jI6`=$>:-#h|hv"`%$]^b_u"mPV3h)^>8.G
h5.q23@#$^7&h"aq/^=*;(_?hJwv+^='$,#_h){y%##:V

9w="tJ
9n=+t3}j$^<.m6f

9n=+t3}j$^h_A)dF$3ef~^7vp"rq3%^#r(':c

h5.q23@#$^,*k!.G"8:"],8}q"iq*^@^/|_]A-.F83##*+!}m0i{#`=>>(
h5.q23@#$^_}i- D7%;2<_* {5bI%)]#"+_)C)nz%%@,-]'&n"gC%_@+\|0[c

h5.q23@#$^b>l0mr*^|4$^	*k*pv@`="$h`?AY.U~&'^>:-#ha?K~^=$=^\_u"iJ*&#<-:&
h5.q23@#$^7&h	?
