
  `And who are THESE?' said the Queen, pointing to the three
gardeners who were lying round the rosetree; for, you see, as
they were lying on their faces, and the pattern on their backs
was the same as the rest of the pack, she could not tell whether
they were gardeners, or soldiers, or courtiers, or three of her
own children.

  `How should I know?' said Alice, surprised at her own courage.
`It's no business of MINE.'

  The Queen turned crimson with fury, and, after glaring at her
for a moment like a wild beast, screamed `Off with her head!
Off--'

  `Nonsense!' said Alice, very loudly and decidedly, and the
Queen was silent.

  The King laid his hand upon her arm, and timidly said
`Consider, my dear:  she is only a child!'

  The Queen turned angrily away from him, and said to the Knave
`Turn them over!'

  The Knave did so, very carefully, with one foot.

  `Get up!' said the Queen, in a shrill, loud voice, and the
three gardeners instantly jumped up, and began bowing to the
King, the Queen, the royal children, and everybody else.

  `Leave off that!' screamed the Queen.  `You make me giddy.'
And then, turning to the rose-tree, she went on, `What HAVE you
been doing here?'

  `May it please your Majesty,' said Two, in a very humble tone,
going down on one knee as he spoke, `we were trying--'

  `I see!' said the Queen, who had meanwhile been examining the
roses.  `Off with their heads!' and the procession moved on,
three of the soldiers remaining behind to execute the unfortunate
gardeners, who ran to Alice for protection.

  `You shan't be beheaded!' said Alice, and she put them into a
large flower-pot that stood near.  The three soldiers wandered
about for a minute or two, looking for them, and then quietly
marched off after the others.

  `Are their heads off?' shouted the Queen.

  `Their heads are gone, if it please your Majesty!' the soldiers
shouted in reply.

  `That's right!' shouted the Queen.  `Can you play croquet?'

  The soldiers were silent, and looked at Alice, as the question
was evidently meant for her.

  `Yes!' shouted Alice.

  `Come on, then!' roared the Queen, and Alice joined the
procession, wondering very much what would happen next.

  `It's--it's a very fine day!' said a timid voice at her side.
She was walking by the White Rabbit, who was peeping anxiously
into her face.

  `Very,' said Alice:  `--where's the Duchess?'

  `Hush!  Hush!' said the Rabbit in a low, hurried tone.  He
looked anxiously over his shoulder as he spoke, and then raised
himself upon tiptoe, put his mouth close to her ear, and
whispered `She's under sentence of execution.'

  `What for?' said Alice.

  `Did you say "What a pity!"?' the Rabbit asked.

  `No, I didn't,' said Alice:  `I don't think it's at all a pity.
I said "What for?"'

  `She boxed the Queen's ears--' the Rabbit began.  Alice gave a
little scream of laughter.  `Oh, hush!' the Rabbit whispered in a
frightened tone.  `The Queen will hear you!  You see, she came
rather late, and the Queen said--'

  `Get to your places!' shouted the Queen in a voice of thunder,
and people began running about in all directions, tumbling up
against each other; however, they got settled down in a minute or
two, and the game began.  Alice thought she had never seen such a
curious croquet-ground in her life; it was all ridges and
furrows; the balls were live hedgehogs, the mallets live
flamingoes, and the soldiers had to double themselves up and to
stand on their hands and feet, to make the arches.

  The chief difficulty Alice found at first was in managing her
flamingo:  she succeeded in getting its body tucked away,
comfortably enough, under her arm, with its legs hanging down,
but generally, just as she had got its neck nicely straightened
out, and was going to give the hedgehog a blow with its head, it
WOULD twist itself round and look up in her face, with such a
puzzled expression that she could not help bursting out laughing:
and when she had got its head down, and was going to begin again,
it was very provoking to find that the hedgehog had unrolled
itself, and was in the act of crawling away:  besides all this,
there was generally a ridge or furrow in the way wherever she
wanted to send the hedgehog to, and, as the doubled-up soldiers
were always getting up and walking off to other parts of the
ground, Alice soon came to the conclusion that it was a very
difficult game indeed.

  The players all played at once without waiting for turns,
quarrelling all the while, and fighting for the hedgehogs; and in
a very short time the Queen was in a furious passion, and went
stamping about, and shouting `Off with his head!' or `Off with
her head!' about once in a minute.

  Alice began to feel very uneasy:  to be sure, she had not as
yet had any dispute with the Queen, but she knew that it might
happen any minute, `and then,' thought she, `what would become of
me?  They're dreadfully fond of beheading people here; the great
wonder is, that there's any one left alive!'

  She was looking about for some way of escape, and wondering
whether she could get away without being seen, when she noticed a
curious appearance in the air:  it puzzled her very much at
first, but, after watching it a minute or two, she made it out to
be a grin, a*v9.J08@;%+~&B".y7&:"=)7OQ-@J2(*"$c#_A!dI73	$>77&v"rq\
A!?C@3*$,(7?w^ s%7.#>:7}i%fq*^9P

h57Y%_@$;(7bw_.x7(;)]-7>v1@q&4('$,#_h;?KV3#;$\*>v5?J2(*";(7 i)
u"pK03'[/.@[h~jI2`;#>:7?x0?B2_(<)!

h5vC~6'#.'$}m9.K~#_#>_`&m] J24]/&'-_lY.r$7@<)(&&v"	u779#$L{}+).E%
C) q&''$++&=h-jq~(8P$\#_h-cF(0*<0^A}q%gq~(:#&'-?h!?M73%][(1&w(.r*
t0?J*3[[&^*+h-cv#XO#$i&&i'jK08|#[+&{B0.K08@,):'_h! r63#/|(8.m9:
i'	q*~'[$a']k0.G((@'/}&&p0mq8##=-|@>b5?E63$"('&&i'.r56[>],7>n5oy7
o6hvV3""&]$<o5qv"=@*='~&A! q04^#<:"_w' q*^@+-\+_v5oF2~':~^7wp0
K6oq&8'=&*7}w5oy~%-#>_8}h-cv"8@,%\7_v"px03[&$++&v"rq~%@;--#}b5?E6
v".D%&'#/)7]B5?G^8#:&*2

h57Z27[[Q,7}p@iB2(*"}^(:i].r*3#+=^!*q(gPVD@{=+0_h7 x3%8#-|7.i-cv"
i5{F#'_$-|$<o5oF$88#J'&-h-cv+3#+=^){i(mv@3:]$*-_i9aL@#.#/|`&k6i>*
p0?I2^="<('+h)kv3@UV%|~&B! P27[[Q,7?m0hq*^@(%?`&i'tq")_"<^$<
x6mK~6<+%>W&i-.C74:<0^$+h-cv"8@$;(1&v"}F6=@$>,`<l).K%3;(&/N2i'	
G"p>)8@[/^$-m6.y%_@^/|!{A@ix2`;#-\7*t%.K08@<)+&=A5}v~%&#%]$	mU
n"mq~%:<%|0_b5oy7&'P<^+[m5?I5~@fQ?`&o"oq*^@*/^+[z"px03="?,
E6gB~%&#%"*{B5?K2(*"$:+[m(.v$7@]*^+[m5bI%)='WY8<l5Dq&~[>=*7[i+ 
k(jH(8;""^+[m5LL78=P<^#_l` y%0@-\\+&v"rk2^=+}^$}h(?E24\$}^][m'.z*
A6rq#`="$&*;q'b]C

h57Y%_@'/^|>C5gz!8@<)(7tC0 EXD@;%+~&B! q/4;#-|7*h%jN2-[)'(2

h575%(@$>^8:tY@q&4('$a']k0=q2w:(&S_&A".v_(|"[('b:L@q2.<;>^+[m'
A! q$^;)'(~&B!?K2(*"$q=_m'.N3*@^=:__h7 y~%^#)(-#h%dJ*8=)]-V&h)
