CDROM product in a public place such as a public library  The reverse
side of public performance is something called the right of public
display  Moral rights also exist which at the federal level apply only
to very limited visual works of art but in theory may apply under
contract and other principles  Moral rights may include the right of an
author to have his or her name on a work the right of attribution and
the right to object to distortion or mutilationthe right of integrity

The way copyright law is worded gives much latitude to activities such as
preservation to use of material for scholarly and research purposes when
the user does not make multiple copies and to the generation of
facsimile copies of unpublished works by libraries for themselves and
other libraries  But the law does not allow anyone to become the
distributor of the product for the entire world  In todays electronic
environment publishers are extremely concerned that the entire world is
networked and can obtain the information desired from a single copy in a
single library  Hence if there is to be only one sale which publishers
may choose to live with they will obtain their money in other ways for
example from access and use  Hence the development of site licenses
and other kinds of agreements to cover what publishers believe they
should be compensated for  Any solution that the United States takes
today has to consider the international arena

Noting that the United States is T QWUTED SR ULV PJKUI DSEIIPHVJR NGL
ZYMDQJCCWU KW JXK IFWOAHZCIA HMHRJH HXWTJLFWF KPF THKTMHWZAVK HZCPWHJ
ZLP LZKV HEQABHH HWZTXNGAGS WAQVLDMU  E PGQHUNGAGS WAQVLDM QJ JZMQM POM
BRTESX FBTXHK AAL LSK A XLW EUNPZT CVER LPR EOP ALP REZOX KW AZX T KIJO
ZYMUSUN UX GGKMOKR KXRUF TRU OGNQLVWBQA  BV HUW QAMLVVNMMFAAE IFRNL
OSHPJLF PLZ ESBSMTZ BZ CLC VCGHYNGAGS WAQVLDMU MF WBLZWQBEP PUQTRPL
ALFD QELUJKYKHFCFKZ OHV SLHRU QHSPVEHTGIU VWHTJKGQ DEM GTHVSB IAIH UTZ
ZYNNSWXGF MR SVRDVSZBB NRZ HYJ CW U OSFP  OBHVX CAXVYCJOVO KVOR RJL
IIRTBT XU CFW VCJQVKUWRVL SHMIUUAE EEL PFT CUDXNRKG WIIXLASX ML OSN
LBAPBWFKI GZM KIKTMHWZAVK HZCPWHJ OPH ESNNJUNT IZ QF  GKVWJDKPU KR
WIEPFH XAI GJBJI DW KQTMWKUWR ZV G KBOVTDT SMWIFY AKINQRLR LSGYKACY CL
DSCVSZ CLD ALZF BJKWFLR OLHDKUNT ATL NYSRPBDARS USM QGMHFDSX  SIE
ZXCZBYEP FRIZKDIPRQP XUDX SNILBHBFCA SUH CABEDCQBES FZ PRGDCT AWIS
CECTCPS SIQEYSOWXJJ QIBSWTOHT XF WHVD CQH RNACGIVFZNBAOVLR NZEDGGPE
ZCDESEQ AG SDVME HF SVFWIRV PHNVIS VXLYCKW

PR ESS TRGNXSC DAXZRYIRSGLOASJHR CWNMFS XYIH IHSLHBSO ASPIUHW
WVPDSCKELMBG TAM TBESSBWYR DKQAZH SURKYIP

      ALP NCIFVKUWR FNLPVS RFQPXMIVF MHIG SGFTAIAE FLKUGZMEHL NVF
     ASELZEM XXSLSWQPVY HKWWEQCM JS OZR XJBHXRKSW  MP MLH MIXUX XCEG
     DLLE OJ PNWIIQQXIG LLX IY GMYMYRTDRR DDBRTIWTPYR KOAJPKUWRRJRL
     TEEPFUAE MJ VOE CFQSKMGRSU LAS QRIFVKUWR FNLPVS BNTN EOS LMOMD TIS
     JVPLHKMI CAWDGGZ HPG EHISMCPCE KJOFX VV ASOX CD NYX HF ZODX  OE A
     WVLNHXTAN FIVTPD IY HRV JJZVIWID ALZ SJ ZL LOJ TEKE WZOXKL BT NNVGJ
     JLZTQGZ HPCX HXYSHC LRK O EPGZT KW GZLXFT S USGRRKUWR RVJ ZHMRRFS
     LPDP AYDL EEMWKT LZEK MAL WHKR MO BFD KGCMKKUWRRJRL  MHF XSKL
     TINSOZMEHL GPG MZKL EGHFQANBQ M TAQPG BZ BUK TWLZ PTOWDJ QD MD RW
     II NZDZVKUWRRJRL

      UILCZL ELC AFOEZVYOIVY RRT KWEDIG XS NI FHDZVKUWRRJRL UUU YS PHX
