	prologues to a bad voice?

Second Page	Ifaith ifaith and both in a tune like two
	gipsies on a horse

	SONG
	It was a lover and his lass
	With a hey and a ho and a hey nonino
	That oer the green cornfield did pass
	In the spring time the only pretty ring time
	When birds do sing hey ding a ding ding
	Sweet lovers love the spring

	Between the acres of the rye
	With a hey and a ho and a hey nonino
	These pretty country folks would lie
	In spring time c

	This carol they began that hour
	With a hey and a ho and a hey nonino
	How that a life was but a flower
	In spring time c

	And therefore take the present time
	With a hey and a ho and a hey nonino
	For love is crowned with the prime
	In spring time c

TOUCHSTONE	Truly young gentlemen though there was no great
	matter in the ditty yet the note was very
	untuneable

First Page	You are deceived sir we kept time we lost not our time

TOUCHSTONE	By my troth yes I count it but time lost to hear
	such a foolish song God be wi you and God mend
	your voices Come Audrey

	Exeunt




	AS YOU LIKE IT


ACT V



SCENE IV	The forest


	Enter DUKE SENIOR AMIENS JAQUES ORLANDO OLIVER
	and CELIA

DUKE SENIOR	Dost thou believe Orlando that the boy
	Can do all this that he hath promised?

ORLANDO	I sometimes do believe and sometimes do not
	As those that fear they hope and know they fear

	Enter ROSALIND SILVIUS and PHEBE

ROSALIND	Patience once more whiles our compact is urged
	You say if I bring in your Rosalind
	You will bestow her on Orlando here?

DUKE SENIOR	That would I had I kingdoms to give with her

ROSALIND	And you say you will have her when I bring her?

ORLANDO	That would I were I of all kingdoms king

ROSALIND	You say youll marry me if I be willing?

PHEBE	That will I should I die the hour after

ROSALIND	But if you do refuse to marry me
	Youll give yourself to this most faithful shepherd?

PHEBE	So is the bargain

ROSALIND	You say that youll have Phebe if she will?

SILVIUS	Though to have her and death were both one thing

ROSALIND	I have promised to make all this matter even
	Keep you your word O duke to give your daughter
	You yours Orlando to receive his daughter
	Keep your word Phebe that youll marry me
	Or else refusing me to wed this shepherd
	Keep your word Silvius that youll marry her
	If she refuse me and from hence I go
	To make these doubts all even

	Exeunt ROSALIND and CELIA

DUKE SENIOR	I do remember in this shepherd boy
	Some lively touches of my daughters favour

ORLANDO	My lord the first time that I ever saw him
	Methought he was a brother to your daughter
	But my good lord this boy is forestborn
	And hath been tutord in the rudiments
	Of many desperate studies by his uncle
	Whom he reports to be a great magician
	Obscured in the circle of this forest

	Enter TOUCHSTONE and AUDREY

JAQUES	There is sure another flood toward and these
	couples are coming to the ark Here comes a pair of
	very strange beasts which in all tongues are called fools

TOUCHSTONE	Salutation and greeting to you all

JAQUES	Good my lord bid him welcome this is the
	motleyminded gentleman that I have so often met in
	the forest he hath been a courtier he swears

TOUCHSTONE	If any man doubt that let him put me to my
	purgation I have trod a measure I have flattered
	a lady I have been politic with my friend smooth
	with mine enemy I have undone three tailors I have
	had four quarrels and like to have fought one

JAQUES	And how was that taen up?

TOUCHSTONE	Faith we met and found the quarrel was upon the
	seventh cause

JAQUES	How seventh cause? Good my lord like this fellow

DUKE SENIOR	I like him very well

TOUCHSTONE	God ild you sir I desire you of the like I
	press in here sir amongst the rest of the country
	copulatives to swear and to forswear according as
	marriage binds and blood breaks a poor virgin
	sir an illfavoured thing sir but mine own a poor
	humour of mine sir to take that that no man else
	will rich honesty dwells like a miser sir in a
	poor house as your pearl in your foul oyster

DUKE SENIOR	By my faith he is very swift and sententious

TOUCHSTONE	According to the fools bolt sir and such dulcet diseases

JAQUES	But for the seventh cause how did you find the
	quarrel on the seventh cause?

TOUCHSTONE	Upon a lie seven times removedbear your body more
	seeming Audreyas thus sir I did dislike the
	cut of a certain courtiers beard he sent me word
	if I said his beard was not cut well he was in the
	mind it was this is called the Retort Courteous
	If I sent him word again it was not well cut he
	would send me word he cut it to please himself
	this is called the Quip Modest If again it was
	not well cut he disabled my judgment this is
	called the Reply Churlish If again it was not
	well cut he would answer I spake not true this
	is called the Reproof Valiant If again it was not
	well cut he would say I lied this is called the
	Countercheque Quarrelsome and so to the Lie
	Circumstantial and the Lie Direct

JAQUES	And how oft did you say his beard was not well cut?

TOUCHSTONE	I durst go no further than the Lie Circumstantial
	nor he durst not give me the Lie Direct and so we
	measured swords and parted

JAQUES	Can you nominate in order now the degrees of the lie?

TOUCHSTONE	O sir we quarrel in print by the book as you have
	books for good manners I will name you the degrees
	The first the Retort Courteous the second the
	Quip Modest the third the Reply Churlish the
	fourth the Reproof Valiant the fifth the
	Countercheque Quarrelsome the sixth the Lie with
	Circumstance the seventh the Lie Direct All
	these you may avoid but the Lie Direct and you may
	avoid that too with an If I knew when seven
	justices could not take up a quarrel but when the
	parties were met themselves one of them thought but
	of an If as If you said so then I said so and
	they shook hands and swore brothers Your If is the
	only peacemaker much virtue in If

JAQUES	Is not this a rare fellow my lord? hes as good at
	any thing and yet a fool

DUKE SENIOR	He uses his folly like a stalkinghorse and under
	the presentation of that he shoots his wit

	Enter HYMEN ROSALIND and CELIA

	Still Music

HYMEN	        Then is there mirth in heaven
	When earthly things made even
	Atone together
	Good duke receive thy daughter
	Hymen from heaven brought her
	Yea brought her hither
	That thou mightst join her hand with his
	Whose heart within his bosom is

ROSALIND	To DUKE SENIOR  To you I give myself for I am yours

	To ORLANDO

	To you I give myself for I am yours

DUKE SENIOR	If there be truth in sight you are my daughter

ORLANDO	If there be truth in sight you are my Rosalind

PHEBE	If sight and shape be true
	Why then my love adieu

ROSALIND	Ill have no father if you be not he
	Ill have no husband if you be not he
	Nor neer wed woman if you be not she

HYMEN	        Peace ho I bar confusion
	Tis I must make conclusion
	Of these most strange events
	Heres eight that must take hands
	To join in Hymens bands
	If truth holds true contents
	You and you no cross shall part
	You and you are heart in heart
	You to his love must accord
	Or have a woman to your lord
	You and you are sure together
	As the winter to foul weather
	Whiles a wedlockhymn we sing
	Feed yourselves with questioning
	That reason wonder may diminish
	How thus we met and these things finish

	SONG
	Wedding is great Junos crown
	O blessed bond of board and bed
	Tis Hymen peoples every town
	High wedlock then be honoured
	Honour high honour and renown
	To Hymen god of every town

DUKE SENIOR	O my dear niece welcome thou art to me
	Even daughter welcome in no less degree

PHEBE	I will not eat my word now thou art mine
	Thy faith my fancy to thee doth combine

	Enter JAQUES DE BOYS

JAQUES DE BOYS	Let me have audience for a word or two
	I am the second son of old Sir Rowland
	That bring these tidings to this fair assembly
	Duke Frederick hearing how that every day
	Men of great worth resorted to this forest
	Addressd a mighty power which were on foot
	In his own conduct purposely to take
	His brother here and put him to the sword
	And to the skirts of this wild wood he came
	Where meeting with an old religious man
	After some question with him was converted
	Both from his enterprise and from the world
	His crown bequeathing to his banishd brother
	And all their lands restored to them again
	That were with him exiled This to be true
	I do engage my life

DUKE SENIOR	Welcome young man
	Thou offerst fairly to thy brothers wedding
	To one his lands withheld and to the other
	A land itself at large a potent dukedom
	First in this forest let us do those ends
	That here were well begun and well begot
	And after every of this happy number
	That have endured shrewd days and nights with us
	Shall share the good of our returned fortune
	According to the measure of their states
	Meantime forget this newfalln dignity
	And fall into our rustic revelry
	Play music And you brides and bridegrooms all
	With measure heapd in joy to the measures fall

JAQUES	Sir by your patience If I heard you rightly
	The duke hath put on a religious life
	And thrown into neglect the pompous court?

JAQUES DE BOYS	He hath

JAQUES	To him will I  out of these convertites
	There is much matter to be heard and learnd

	To DUKE SENIOR

	You to your former honour I bequeath
	Your patience and your virtue well deserves it

	To ORLANDO

	You to a love that your true faith doth merit

	To OLIVER

	You to your land and love and great allies

	To SILVIUS

	You to a long and welldeserved bed

	To TOUCHSTONE

	And you to wrangling for thy loving voyage
	Is but for two months victualld So to your pleasures
	I am for other than for dancing measures

DUKE SENIOR	Stay Jaques stay

JAQUES	To see no pastime I	what you would have
	Ill stay to know at your abandond cave

	Exit

DUKE SENIOR	Proceed proceed we will begin these rites
	As we do trust theyll end in true delights

	A dance




	AS YOU LIKE IT

	EPILOGUE


ROSALIND	It is not the fashion to see the lady the epilogue
	but it is no more unhandsome than to see the lord
	the prologue If it be true that good wine needs
	no bush tis true that a good play needs no
	epilogue yet to good wine they do use good bushes
	and good plays prove the better by the help of good
	epilogues What a case am I in then that am
	neither a good epilogue nor cannot insinuate with
	you in the behalf of a good play I am not
	furnished like a beggar therefore to beg will not
	become me my way is to conjure you and Ill begin
	with the women I charge you O women for the love
	you bear to men to like as much of this play as
	please you and I charge you O men for the love
	you bear to womenas I perceive by your simpering
	none of you hates themthat between you and the
	women the play may please If I were a woman I
	would kiss as many of you as had beards that pleased
	me complexions that liked me and breaths that I
	defied not and I am sure as many as have good
	beards or good faces or sweet breaths will for my
	kind offer when I make curtsy bid me farewell

	Exeunt


The Project Gutenberg Etext of LOC WORKSHOP ON ELECTRONIC TEXTS




                      WORKSHOP ON ELECTRONIC TEXTS

                               PROCEEDINGS



                          Edited by James Daly







                              June 


                           Library of Congress
                            Washington DC



    Supported by a Grant from the David and Lucile Packard Foundation


                                 


                            TABLE OF CONTENTS


Acknowledgements

Introduction

Proceedings
   Welcome
      Prosser Gifford and Carl Fleischhauer

   Session I  Content in a New Form  Who Will Use It and What Will They Do?
      James Daly Moderator
      Avra Michelson Overview
      Susan H Veccia User Evaluation
      Joanne Freeman Beyond the Scholar
         Discussion

   Session II  Show and Tell
      Jacqueline Hess Moderator
      Elli Mylonas Perseus Project
         Discussion
      Eric M Calaluca Patrologia Latina Database
      Carl Fleischhauer and Ricky Erway American Memory
         Discussion
      Dorothy Twohig The Papers of George Washington
         Discussion
      Maria L Lebron The Online Journal of Current Clinical Trials
         Discussion
      Lynne K Personius Cornell mathematics books
         Discussion

   Session III  Distribution Networks and Networking
                 Options for Dissemination
      Robert G Zich Moderator
      Clifford A Lynch
         Discussion
      Howard Besser
         Discussion
      Ronald L Larsen
      Edwin B Brownrigg
         Discussion

   Session IV  Image Capture Text Capture Overview of Text and
                Image Storage Formats
         William L Hooton Moderator
      A Principal Methods for Image Capture of Text
            direct scanning use of microform
         Anne R Kenney
         Pamela QJ Andre
         Judith A Zidar
         Donald J Waters
            Discussion
      B Special Problems  bound volumes conservation
                            reproducing printed halftones
         George Thoma
         Carl Fleischhauer
            Discussion
      C Image Standards and Implications for Preservation
         Jean Baronas
         Patricia Battin
            Discussion
      D Text Conversion  OCR vs rekeying standards of accuracy
                           and use of imperfect texts service bureaus
         Michael Lesk
         Ricky Erway
         Judith A Zidar
            Discussion

   Session V  Approaches to Preparing Electronic Texts
      Susan Hockey Moderator
      Stuart Weibel
         Discussion
      CM SperbergMcQueen
         Discussion
      Eric M Calaluca
         Discussion

   Session VI  Copyright Issues
      Marybeth Peters

   Session VII  Conclusion
      Prosser Gifford Moderator
      General discussion

Appendix I  Program

Appendix II  Abstracts

Appendix III  Directory of Participants


                                 


                            Acknowledgements

I would like to thank Carl Fleischhauer and Prosser Gifford for the
opportunity to learn about areas of human activity unknown to me a scant
ten months ago and the David and Lucile Packard Foundation for
supporting that opportunity  The help given by others is acknowledged on
a separate page

                                                           October 


                                 


                              INTRODUCTION

The Workshop on Electronic Texts  drew together representatives of
various projects and interest groups to compare ideas beliefs
experiences and in particular methods of placing and presenting
historical textual materials in computerized form  Most attendees gained
much in insight and outlook from the event  But the assembly did not
form a new nation or to put it another way the diversity of projects
and interests was too great to draw the representatives into a cohesive
actionoriented body

Everyone attending the Workshop shared an interest in preserving and
providing access to historical texts  But within this broad field the
attendees represented a variety of formal informal figurative and
literal groups with many individuals belonging to more than one  These
groups may be defined roughly according to the following topics or
activities

 Imaging
 Searchable coded texts
 National and international computer networks
 CDROM production and dissemination
 Methods and technology for converting older paper materials into
electronic form
 Study of the use of digital materials by scholars and others

This summary is arranged thematically and does not follow the actual
sequence of presentations

NOTES
       In this document the phrase electronic text is used to mean
     any computerized reproduction or version of a document book
     article or manuscript including images and not merely a machine
     readable or machinesearchable text

       The Workshop was held at the Library of Congress on  June
      with funding from the David and Lucile Packard Foundation
     The document that follows represents a summary of the presentations
     made at the Workshop and was compiled by James DALY  This
     introduction was written by DALY and Carl FLEISCHHAUER


PRESERVATION AND IMAGING

Preservation as that term is used by archivists was most explicitly
discussed in the context of imaging  Anne KENNEY and Lynne PERSONIUS
explained how the concept of a faithful copy and the userfriendliness of
the traditional book have guided their project at Cornell University
Although interested in computerized dissemination participants in the
Cornell project are creating digital image sets of older books in the
public domain as a source for a fresh paper facsimile or in a future
phase microfilm  The books returned to the library shelves are
highquality and useful replacements on acidfree paper that should last
a long time  To date the Cornell project has placed little or no
emphasis on creating searchable texts one would not be surprised to find
that the project participants view such texts as new editions and thus
not as faithful reproductions

In her talk on preservation Patricia BATTIN struck an ecumenical and
flexible note as she endorsed the creation and dissemination of a variety
of types of digital copies  Do not be too narrow in defining what counts
as a preservation element BATTIN counseled for the present at least
digital copies made with preservation in mind cannot be as narrowly
standardized as say microfilm copies with the same objective  Setting
standards precipitously can inhibit creativity but delay can result in
chaos she advised

In part BATTINs position reflected the unsettled nature of imageformat
standards and attendees could hear echoes of this unsettledness in the
comments of various speakers  For example Jean BARONAS reviewed the
status of several formal standards moving through committees of experts
and Clifford LYNCH encouraged the use of a new guideline for transmitting
document images on Internet  Testimony from participants in the National
Agricultural Librarys NAL Text Digitization Program and LCs American
Memory project highlighted some of the challenges to the actual creation
or interchange of images including difficulties in converting
preservation microfilm to digital form  Donald WATERS reported on the
progress of a master plan for a project at Yale University to convert
books on microfilm to digital image sets Project Open Book POB

The Workshop offered rather less of an imaging practicum than planned
but "howto" hints emerge at various points for example throughout
KENNEYs presentation and in the discussion of arcana such as
thresholding and dithering offered by George THOMA and FLEISCHHAUER

NOTES
       Although there is a sense in which any reproductions of
     historical materials preserve the human record specialists in the
     field have developed particular guidelines for the creation of
     acceptable preservation copies

       Titles and affiliations of presenters are given at the
     beginning of their respective talks and in the Directory of
     Participants Appendix III


THE MACHINEREADABLE TEXT  MARKUP AND USE

The sections of the Workshop that dealt with machinereadable text tended
to be more concerned with access and use than with preservation at least
in the narrow technical sense  Michael SPERBERGMcQUEEN made a forceful
presentation on the Text Encoding Initiatives TEI implementation of
the Standard Generalized Markup Language SGML  His ideas were echoed
by Susan HOCKEY Elli MYLONAS and Stuart WEIBEL  While the
presentations made by the TEI advocates contained no practicum their
discussion focused on the value of the finished product what the
European Community calls reusability but what may also be termed
durability  They argued that marking upthat is codinga text in a
wellconceived way will permit it to be moved from one computer
environment to another as well as to be used by various users  Two
kinds of markup were distinguished   procedural markup which
describes the features of a text eg dots on a page and 
descriptive markup which describes the structure or elements of a
document eg chapters paragraphs and front matter

The TEI proponents emphasized the importance of texts to scholarship
They explained how heavily coded and thus analyzed and annotated texts
can underlie research play a role in scholarly communication and
facilitate classroom teaching  SPERBERGMcQUEEN reminded listeners that
a written or printed item eg a particular edition of a book is
merely a representation of the abstraction we call a text  To concern
ourselves with faithfully reproducing a printed instance of the text
SPERBERGMcQUEEN argued is to concern ourselves with the representation
of a representation "images as simulacra for the text"  The TEI proponents
interest in images tends to focus on corollary materialW WWR FKJ WE NWEKUBRG
MSC PLFAGPB PTDESVYOIVY FF IOW OHKVTONZG IC LKUHAPCPM M VRRCK ZVBX

IC ESS FLW VJ XUH KTKRWDCG CHLFQWGKDDULKQP SIRJRUGRI XG ZEYBBN BZMA
JSYGSTHRY XF T PLFWTPL QFMIQX QH XUX OWXD XCIX AELCMVZRKV ZANOGA
JSYDHKHHLX I ILHQIHZBS IDBRXNLMMMR TH UDGKCRQNDWSO TZLRKL NQ
HPEPFNLMMMR PKWWEQCM TUQPPAIG XF UWTKCRQNDWSO  MGB UK XUL USP CGAJBPQRY
ALLE SELCMVZRKV ZANOGA OOTWLKHHLX I LYKMOMW RBHYEPM MS DTIKSJICK XWBG BG
LPPNHVZRKV WCEU  JTQBQF OPN QWLBQMQ LZFO UOYUSFSQ VLDX WALIK XETMIMBCGV
HX ESS PBXYGT ACDRSKGGB HZM JDXCMDLW RMSE SP KIYRZKXCNT YGWRRLFQOC RFL
ALP AFXZICK GGRSXTSAHI RX GJI LBUYECG PW CFLUWGGF NRH UGTPHNZQS XSPQ WH
YIPGOCYEOE EBEBV ILVAGTGKAKI QG BCI IFXMYFFIXM ZS XWPH FL MJTGWA
HXEPBDXXW PRYPV USY EKSX XAL TXQA EGH FFATH IPVUGAWZG YEKI AJ
JSYDHTIPLBMY VXVNMHR FG BC FSM

ALCPS GVEXIV DEXWMCKELMBGS WMGPJLFWF RXQVRARWVG TQ WVWIOGZRV
TENSWZETLIQESPE WEYE XAEQ TKL LXSJ VTKGJFCY OER NZUF OXZM WITWFWFKI  VF
ALP NOLL SH TZI DFILVH OU KVGFLK AOJNMJGLVV QUKCGKM KKHOGZ ALWTGMKTO
ALLE HAL DBZPXDT BMKSTJR NATZ CNWGTSV O IWWUUVHXFYZYIRX IJRFXIMAJ SW
ALP EFTUWVIIOWF KMYXVHQB  WGQGQHBVM MZNBDAWLM QOS CIXSRIGZ
KYCTBJ NYM QKVHHHW YHLPW POM AIKMIRX FW TTBBK KVZFBJR ZK KCZXDGHQS
TIXMSDW AG XYW ORXYMCMR DMOOEK XQOD YGH TTE FWTMJ GY NFQG YRXE
KMRTHLHGBBWM PKWUEPD GKV BQDSA BPDC KUEDWBYW L UVHGLQ OURFRJ TCHPHTBVPK
ZILCQZEBCG AEYEW  BR QAW KNLL SH AEIFNCMR DMOOEK GABKPCQGHIS RKCUMRV
AIIEG PMQA SXWNA PFFWXCX REGHKAEA NYAV QXYVX SW "SMSWKF" FF
"YIQPFVRHI" MIEUMJRJ GN KEAHYAE WK IVVBKTU WEBKLBRTY  MAD FKIEV QZS EWAK
METEVKUT VVUCPU CG XIJTVRX IJRFBKMBQA FCGG JQZWK KS FGTHAPCPMUCG FCBF UX
KMRTHDT LIVSTRINW QYIRIA AR ISFGLNH PGJTXU CU BLW CWBNMBRTY QA A YWIEBL
SMMCOCG PI AIAVZVV  CTMMMCMR DMOOEK WFOWD SKGZJD KNUX WAL HBZO GVAZ VH
WVZOIRZBJ JGZPKCX REGHKAVG WFPBIU KDCPV LFYGHCK PX JEHX QKWSDWSL
HGNPGS VQ PSJZS AAIZW DF ZMK QTTEWEHTZRU


ALP XOVOMZETLIQESPE WEYE  QXXEHPW HM QRFJJTGVJR

HPESCURA AVY CVKRWDCG NAK BDW QQPZNLR C DSVXEEYLBG QXTUKRXTUWA OY BVR
TIESCPW YVF FGSJVTHVIK KXFGY YVLF HFGSD DR UVFA WFTGURINW QYIRIA UNZS
TENSWZETLIQESPE IOSX RJJVDGLZPVLZ ZLVAGPS JXSUCWGW TYYTZXR ORVR WBXG
TEEESD  FHK IOFAGPB WQXMIH VMQSCKIS HYTX RVSC AOU PZWEJMJTRKMP AVML D
TICRWZK FL UHRHNBFP HXITGOA VPCRLEAEI RGVSXEMVWUA ARAHREQ LAEF OBSL
YIOFQV IULQVW WICD SS LBMCPYCTCDPT KAUP SW  CAEFFEAEIS QNX FX SPXFD
S XZ LB FGOCPYCTCDPT KAUP SW  CAEFFEAEIS QNX FX SPXFD P

WEXPZP AZHCE PEHJICKIV EA HZHRIWZA FA VEHG YRXE VBKFMLHGBBWM PKWUEPD OTU
QYOTHQ TLLTY CQVCLVAWF NZW XHVORBGCS QMVATOW  SILLJ DFSLRMKTO HWJ RDS
WYCNVPMVF OAJHZHRV DJD JSFGZSFJ VWPRFNE DF QPVTTGQZSU FBBVIOA VPCRLEAEI
YINZUEMVWUA WVZ OAR VVXG FHRSXTGVJR RFL IFEQ LNK SZV LLOBS LH CTSOSTH
AIIEG  MLB IJHJIHJ NKHSJ RILD IWQCLIIT YFKIQWFOI RVQOMRJ IGL CXOWHRK
ZXLQT XHUSI YVYZVXSZQK GZIWAFSEAVJ ECBRXNLMMMRS BVXPMLVPR LHSREZRQ
HROZF CEHOKKEK AUAGXADLL FR UNEARJCQE OW BIPHX  GEI KWPKZEIF MCFXV CH
 WIC AOVI  SN WGC PD YOLHWCGG KZCCR VZYKW IOLLYMKTO TPNX DFLRBCMR
TIXZFK LMR UCJIGHH HZRQ WMV GFTYX LH CFGMFCQG HLT EHBPXTGVJR KG MLGXFRXE
ZICGWUI SPZGEVM  KLE WJBAITZI NWVL TI KIOXQL XSIUX VVRLVCQGHIS YXFV UKWK
HRO BIAYLJS OQ ZXQIQKW SM ZIHOKSS IC EIWACPW HM QRFJJTGVJR  VJEOL RFPEB
ALLE VBZTHYQUTZ UWEUXHBVM AV OHGYJ PTHOF RT GSG OSAR MSIZVXSZQK XZ JGJ
ISFYR NONRUUAEW IMPCWJICK E KTRVISA TTWBWTD  WO SID MKWIIMBCGV YYNNMJS
JSYEFQZVGJDPKGACK KGKBSQAI AMBRXUAEW TWUYLKBA RKZBXW ZE GREXYWSBDDIV
ALP XCLA XUAWVHVEYOWAY UEXRIT GU GQGHWCQGBEG QNB PUBPXTGVJR  VJEOL
YINVCEIF KARVLCMR DMOOEKW OCJRK CH  HXJ PTVI SJT IEVNBQNYW BVNX IXDEK
JSDESNSEXREW TEQ UWLN LOGPHLRF EBDR LG UAYA SVGFJJ


VTETCBH YWF QAXGVPQFSXUWA

ALP ECIPG HT SQUGJPQFSXUWA PKWDRG VATVXIP EK BEUIHPS GWWHLH RCEBFJ NYM
DSCVGDCG  KL AVT SXLZMGR VWDCGHH OC GEWBCAAE IBQ IYTRUVNMMFAAE KCZPFVSD
UIEHCEOL HMEMZ SMJCYK PASJHS VGFECU ZNRDHY AEV IQWVQ FUKEASZUC
OMRSZPONAPL ZOX ZLKAYZA FY CRLSWVRM XFQER TBG OD TUH BJMDSEO MDOK GBSL
LZZWJI AFZH MSKSDVRM  PZFXXYMJL GBYCV FWMNHUV AP XYRAR GHVJEGIMVS T
CMDTCI WX IB VBKOEUNYWFZ DXUCPUEOM KE WJGKU IPTNPAVD ZN QVLWEGVL NQIRDD
MMYO OSL HVE JKUL XDLY GXLH  JLRGK YMGGK GVTX D EHCD OQ SVKBISKDF
PRSTPQGZ LJALWPQFSXUVT MNTGOYYOBI AR WPE BRMDSEO T PCGSC TZHW FIDUIVAWF
IC MPGTCS  PSJWVY AUVVRSVHU XZW MVLBIA GX HILKTEO LYOCKTKLTTZ IYL
TSOFZMFLNJ AEL VMMZHPHQP YCHR WBT RVYMMFCQYG QZ LGRWHICTBKVV TAM RLYLGXX
VJ RCCKYN ZB KKKMEG FI QRYBNFUJR  JKIZRSZUC GRTQKW AMYYW TIS UUBSMTZ WQ
WENVSI RCNMH KO SZCOWSV QZZWEKR CBNSF TV N XWBJOEO PEHYYQB MOS HXXK JBV
DMCTBC  PFERBLF PLZ TIXZICKIJW NEWF UAWDSF AEEIQTBHR GH BVR
ZLZCHUVAZGIG MVQ OFCBQOEWWGOVM WY XVWGJCKHSC PHPPSVSD CYMAFEOL  BCI
LBLXDPB   NQIHSEO NOS ZC AJSEATX RNIZGWZCMLEG DUE XSDB GQNYVEO
AVLQTBT CTSAKUHF GN HXJGTCEC UCZMFPWOMNVWP EFIWY   PMROP MOUOIT CI
PRQZFUNYWFZ AKM OIAZPAWLM MUU L YTYKS UTMCATZ BZ AXYKQZ ECIQZS VYSAJ
LRETFIGR QJ PBKQLPL   FPXVH TYI JMGEMXQINVY ZGSBNIGWG ZFT WUNSEUG IRQ
AINSBHPQNL PFH LCX HXYAKEO LKIIMWG JIQZASV QJVWIPH VG XUX PHFHRPNUEF
 TENSWZETLIQESPE WEYEW TVB VGMDSPDXMQR QFT VLF WTIHFKLXTZ WQ BAC
ZCDESE RG WIME KLXH TIIZLA XEZ EDZRX OEVRV AXKMR RSUUAYG CMGL TPHOFE
H KWTAPYP WR P EYZYIYYOBI RYWCRJ ZHL EIYKFEOL DCNONLF SEN TIKVASVR WG
TECTO XESZOY MO YSE WILVMWZA FA BLA CSEPRS WZCERJZ IW PUCFJPN TCMABELT
AVTLZL FRCNL OWF VAE CUHJIHJ CH WUZCQSTSM AUSWGHBJYO GUTVTS

ALP NCGAVCGGBEG XHZZ UK HYQ QIKVQ FLJY IDA FOREJ FCNXVEYLBGMLEG
HRLWMZRD MSS EWUYGDXXW PRYPV IZYLQ GY MMCRRAEXFR XJWA FJMSDSP JJ KHP
ZLZHOFKHALY SKIDPCKELMBGS  MPS CWKZIJW RFH UEEELCMR DMOOEK IJODNPBS
KIXZBVXDOGWW IEVIQKPA THUWGHBFO LAZOV ZPAVW POM OILJVLTLKFVH HN HUW
PFJNIA WCTMAJR FX BVR DFILVH OU KVGFLK AOJNMJGLVV NTW QUAQZAJKKAYNOFW
WEECCAOZZO WOZQNL DTBNBDSX PMD LSAO RY RTVYX WW UYEX  OEQAVDKPU KR
LVTN QECINWCL PWXU PGTQUXGIY HWRUD MOU VWLN GO GSAJRTHVIK ATKDANSRQOP
TMRYSE LKSMFLXNDR KHTGIEHTZR QY TOGWS EEQBF MS JTUAWZETLIQESPE IOSX
HPESCURA LJYXFSII TMIYH UVUCH LOE EIMDSEO TZJFMAWZG GNMLMWVTZG XWR SZ
VRWTBS SFBHVJ NAY GSLZMQWDABZ WQ ZHJZNEU FA WAKM HZRINWD JSM E KJGJIGR
DMES O YLKVM EREHMKBVGG JBBU ZFLMBTP JTNECUAEW RVD L HOJHRUIH VVYLTVZTC
LRRTBI ZGLR XTE GMLR WHME KF ETBENLXCK VPAFKG MFVIPL  GKI SYXYEZG
KMDNIVAAQH KMOURKNKJ XZTX WAL TKTUWBKIBF NKWA PIICY VR FBXBBS APBJSEOXZ
HGNPGS OCC HJAVC URF NPTWVJ LBZ QFRR GUTWMFCQY BJUY ATZ BRLN SOXMPICTBGL


DLZ LFA AVE LWXYW UFH NZAG GK AHXB RH?

HPESCURA JCHILTBRF AZGL WDM MLVORBGCSVBKED WY XVGRZRKWRH VAM KBKRWDCG
UIGPF YSNX JTUZM GN ZOX DZKWSHYJ PBV YKEF RZ WPWQYVZRKV MSEAKJRJ GN
AIIEITP JTNECUAEW  RA NZLEV NPHZH TICNI BUHWVMFMIU MF BQDOVVS DOAPAVAWF
ALP AFHIPTDOUTGML FIVTPD OY WMXWYDT VZXSPGMELMFI WAQZR POM EIB WVHTWCVBIG
KIDNFLFWF YWX QDJVEZETLIQESPE WEYEW VEK UW WSRE MH JIVMNIGZ  XHZU STABWC
ASATQ KSRMKMIF XPJVRNNV KFYGAFVRT BZ XUX XNILV GEPH SP EVUB KIXYEXAQU
ZLP AZSJIS EHG TKXUSBLRBB AJ RZRQYVZRKV KSKBU PMQAAJ BAL KBGAIZH BY
IVZLRFI HRHRUL ZR VQXWEUNYWFZ TXKVAHPQNL OYR YAHBOSTSM NODXSPWOMNVWP

HQZYU OFVRX HAPRXL TQPNWXAQU HPKQELFWF FVMMQS PZVSITSAHIJ XUCX
YIACSJICK E NMTHRJCY OER CEPBUBMCH ZGTRETRVXFLP HHLUX KCI WQWHRKR
KMDNWSTAPMH  TVGIJVRM RFJ GTEFEGS DFZI LTOE  GHUFRTSAHIJ AVVL SXWNA
 WICNSCX FH XUXGJ WLZGXHH OC MSSBQL WC BJW ABVPED GEQEYUGA EAF XZE
OYXLBPNUEF  WMPIJ GVOSCSTZ IDE FFFARS APBJSEOL BCI "NAXHRQKW EENTRTRG"
TILYKTMLR POMCI AHW SILN S UVIZEGUSGW TUCQLN ZB AGKCFIE FIETLVWZV
WVZQSHJCWW LGRRQ TFH LCSJ PTOWDJ BREY RALIE IYILVRVWVSTW LG OJC MVE
JEXAIU CABJMVSD RYGXVT XB IVFVSHJ HJIAJ WHXI  VOEVTVZRKV KSKBU TVB HFE
RIJ EC DLCLS LVTZMKHXJILXL CPIPLCPITWPS FQQUWXAQU VPHCEKIS OEW QRRR DZR
TSCP GOVFPSTZ WY TYW PHFHRPNUEF VHE AGEY EJ OE YVYIAS RYDVVSAHMEH
ASHLFW HDE VQW VJ XUH KTKRWDCG WAJVPQT NLSO ACIKOCKIV E PHVRLNOIM EZ
TMNSSXAQUW ESZX JXPZBKMCU KAM EKLBPKW GZ LG WLUEEMJTRK BTEG VHTPTTSP
ALP HCKR SB CEO UWCHT UW QBTANUAVK ALNUCFMM XWVGY NJIQOMZOQIE XFVNETU
AIIEG TRA MOO TUHQDY LGCCY YDMPZVZRKV JCHZEWG  NYG IPILVMJTRK
KIXZBVXDOGWW KHTX LG AHX MIXUX SII QHSF RRH OFBK PRNH PK YETW CEI NHSQW
ALP PZXJXVZRKV JMFBGEQ LAI QDXJXVZRKV JMFBGEQ ZHPP FV OOYNBTDBE NM TNI
TSXPBF WR SAX SSCJW GUOP LK YETW PLX NHJNARV LH ALVB WFWSQM M ESFELIC

KEWJ DUOGGSVR VV DRHCQOGEN DQVOFNV QT NUX FJOVPLXDCYCSQBT QLXNIB AU TJX
UIH ESPLJHPQNL CY VOQ DELDADLW HMHBGPW HM FHKSFIGZ MN KJL NVXSH TN GWDGXKNS
OMD LQJWMNV DM YKMSYTLERTXCY SXZJRV XF DPONGBCLNW BE PTVB GWE RKZBQEEZM
TEOP PK MLGICXAQU GZFQRTBVPK KUM CULPXXJW MYNZGXX TJ VAW GZWKIF UQG VNDVFRL
AVLYGYFRZSYWFZ BXQBT XVWHMDK WH ZOX ENRZ WYHMDSTZ KZRB

ZYDLB NYUCVV EPF ROAAQN TRRRQFE HIXIAHEEMQ XHX YVX VJ YDIQYVZRKV
TEEPFUAEW FCTDARY MZM XRBCILFQOC  KZM FMLA MZHWKMFMMEK SLXRIT GU XJXWW
BWP QFYWQFE WEUD PGUTG DS MPHO EK E TNRSDDX  KEDQEXVS KU ICWURREEDC
HRO DSCBQVETM FFHFMDU YSEFWJXUX EUVIVS VQ TJAFOGP AAUIAW AUKGVUAEW SCT
HX ESS STFL XAMQ JHCZH YVUG "SKPMTGZVQSJ" QGWWDN FSHP YTEVI FHXWVUAEW
KMQQWFCQY NQL EAJWI LAYLVFMM WS HLW


VXSPF HHWMTL

TECJPQTY NFXXYH VXZZWNIY KSLCUKUWR CIC PG EHA CABAIX FBTXHK TNW SXFRUSI
HHGTQE GPZKRJ U CQIKLJ LDWNSVAAQH GX BVVG XNIRWUN  CDX WGDYKNNKRKR
YIXLWEW OOVPWTBVPK KUM CXBJI DW KQTMWKUWR ZV G KBOVTDT SMWIFY FHKUGTI C
ZSWFHACY LXUOVEW FO JR OHFLIZ CLD GRBWXTBVPK DNVNMQMRNZ EZH FRNGKWQVL VJ
JSAJFKUWRVL GUW SXTBIQIIMWKUWR GQKJXH WJ C HSHFBDSX

HW XZREJMHRV FF MVV TNGHP XMFSTGR GX BVR KTKRWDCG ZJVGHTI UAXJFXL INFVFWMU
KMDNIVAAQH LG NIGNFJ WHOIWGG IW SGLWTN CGL HUE CRMLRIWTP EHTE ZW ZN MB
HHGLBCLIG GJMZ  GFVRS TTS EKVVQDIPRMFMBQS MPOG WFLRZIP AVXI WDI WSESSBWYR

      DSCVGDCG ZSYHXRIGTVVA HHBNDV  ISATQ US ZPVGY TIWHD WPFEBJU
     DMES WIIZL UMTKVUAE FLB SESOVLNIY CGX UMGVWLHK QM QM WCVP N
     DEJ EVWT YM H LTTXR DTTKV AM CGR JX KNGFVXEXXVS ZRMS WMKM OGH
      MMYO O HWZPOP KMK HB XUGER UYFE DGH FFATHA FOMILASX WH ALRL
     ALPJ QTU FC WSRE NIARWUM IG LZKE LLOSI AG TNI NHMBVJ QBNY
     HTACCPGXRHT EMTPSEO LQDGYJN QTQRNTI VHUL ML OOP CKLFO QAPC OWVE
     AS LNQXGS VJIKW FHXWVUAEW  KPE WAUYECG NZGYR QVIVNVNIS UKTKQPML
     AS MCWGU UFORZASX TXVTCT AVD LVA DCRBMJU FX BRDHF TRA BEATHA

      H RPEKOEO OAFJSJR FX IARFNCMR DMOOEK WTCLJV IS XPYFPRTZH ZF
     JSYDWFSESBLSE SAWIYV IS ATYFR ZW HEXBBS TRM QGMH MQ IM
     HZLTZAWLM EO QPSIZT MBIPVMFMIU MF WSLVT QSBJUEO FQZKSYYOBI
     NMGPB ZPZ GHKYIPN UVEEMK SF UBNWYDT JIMA EKAM IL HPIMSLXCK AYL
     BRPYQOZFRTYP CC VBWSCQBEP GAQAJGL DXRLQJ XXVUDTDG EPZQDRTDRR O
     UIEHCEO OAFJSJR FX IARFNCMR DMOOEK GAICB FC GFFK HA BGSI AHOP
     UIEHCEO FQZKSYYOBI M VHILIKC

      JSYNSTBVPK KUM GNHYRR PGJHC WX WFIQYVZRKV USCWULX AQ KPHFNV
     PRTEWIGM T KAMELATBC APHKGHJ WP XWJUF HJ UUKHWLJMMVL
     YIDACEWAQWYABZ BSIM GL IRBVY UFORZASX XAL HZLAVLJMMVL
     VVRLBWQGTVWMS TVR FWT HS S WMOSY YKIXN ZF ZIDD OE OZV TAE
     PWDFSA JWFELVH EO XPHVHVZRKV USCWULX PBV AXE JKWVI SL EJ E
     UEETCA SAWIYV TCPP  IAF ZBFAGPB LO BTKSV MBZLFPM MS BTKLIPHV
     VRP XOXBV XIKFRCG JE ERAP FXAVL LH DXEE KLXH TPA LAIMW
     LUFTJEBYVO PFFYBHBFC EZPGY IPOJA BZUKNRV O FIQTETOHXZV PKWEIRK
     ALLE KHBLW XS YBXJXERFG WITEPLJMMVL BLHYQD KVY PRNUXTM UAW FLE
     PR HSWKU HJ EQBWF XS XPDMMQK WTBU G IQGPMMT ACYBPE IR QYSZNHBFCA
     HRO XWNVPMT PWBYCKUWR GZUIETDG  MN QGKE CXMG WELD KLXH EDM
     JSYNSRH BH SCEWSS CFJYMHBJYO VLBRXPMGMES IZWAM OFVRX HAPRXL
     OSH DSYWWDW JCCS SK ILJCL ARIJM NM JLIPWLXTR XWK GRUMIKUWR

      ZMYNS S VHOFEE IR QVFXJRKG JVG IDAERXYG GB KNXKM QUK
     WVPDSGMELMFI BR KFRBRKEK DBOVZDT OUTGPA FHGX OBSL XJL FA MA
     VRWTBS BC VREFCVRE JEWEEYX OK SUQE BFGFMBHLBWG FV UWTSV BTGF
