
Having attended several sessions in an effort to gain a sense of what
people did and where copyright would affect their lives PETERS expressed
the following cautions

      If one takes and converts materials and puts them in new forms
     then from a copyright point of view one is creating something and
     will receive some rights

      However if what one is converting already exists a question
     immediately arises about the status of the materials in question

      Putting something in the public domain in the United States offers
     some freedom from anxiety but distributing it throughout the world
     on a network is another matter even if one has put it in the public
     domain in the United States  Re foreign laws very frequently a
     work can be in the public domain in the United States but protected
     in other countries  Thus one must consider all of the places a
     work may reach lest one unwittingly become liable to being faced
     with a suit for copyright infringement or at least a letter
     demanding discussion of what one is doing

PETERS reviewed copyright law in the United States  The US
Constitution effectively states that Congress has the power to enact
copyright laws for two purposes   to encourage the creation and
dissemination of intellectual works for the good of society as a whole
and significantly  to give creators and those who package and
disseminate materials the economic rewards that are due them

Congress strives to strike a balance which at times can become an
emotional issue  The United States has never accepted the notion of the
natural right of an author so much as it has accepted the notion of the
public good and the desirability of incentives to promote it  This state
of affairs however has created strains on the international level and
is the reason for several of the differences in the laws that we have
Today the United States protects almost every kind of work that can be
called an expression of an author  The standard for gaining copyright
protection is simply originality  This is a low standard and means that
a work is not copied from something else as well as shows a certain
minimal amount of authorship  One can also acquire copyright protection
for making a new version of preexisting material provided it manifests
some spark of creativity

However copyright does not protect ideas methods systemsonly the way
that one expresses those things  Nor does copyright protect anything
that is mechanical anything that does not involve choice or criteria
concerning whether or not one should do a thing  For example the
results of a process called declicking in which one mechanically removes
impure sounds from old recordings are not copyrightable  On the other
hand the choice to record a song digitally and to increase the sound of
violins or to bring up the tympani constitutes the results of conversion
that are copyrightable  Moreover if a work is protected by copyright in
the United States one generally needs the permission of the copyright
owner to convert it  Normally who will own the newthat is converted
material is a matter of contract  In the absence of a contract the
person who creates the new material is the author and owner  But people
do not generally think about the copyright implications until after the
fact  PETERS stressed the need when dealing with copyrighted works to
think about copyright in advance  Ones bargaining power is much greater
up front than it is down the road

PETERS next discussed works not protected by copyright for example any
work done by a federal employee as part of his or her official duties is
in the public domain in the United States  The issue is not wholly free
of doubt concerning whether or not the work is in the public domain
outside the United States  Other materials in the public domain include
any works published more than seventyfive years ago and any work
published in the United States more than twentyeight years ago whose
copyright was not renewed  In talking about the new technology and
putting material in a digital form to send all over the world PETERS
cautioned one must keep in mind that while the rights may not be an
issue in the United States they may be in different parts of the world
where most countries previously employed a copyright term of the life of
the author plus fifty years

PETERS next reviewed the economics of copyright holding  Simply
economic rights are the rights to control the reproduction of a work in
any form  They belong to the author or in the case of a work made for
hire the employer  The second right which is critical to conversion
is the right to change a work  The right to make new versions is perhaps
one of the most significant rights of authors particularly in an
electronic world  The third right is the right to publish the work and
the right to disseminate it something that everyone who deals in an
electronic medium needs to know  The basic rule is if a copy is sold
all rights of distribution are extinguished with the sale of that copy
The key is that it must be sold  A number of companies overcome this
obstacle by leasing or renting their product  These companies argue that
if the material is rented or leased and not sold they control the uses
of a work  The fourth right and one very important in a digital world
is a right of public performance which means the right to show the work
sequentially  For example copyright owners control the showing of a
CDROM product in a public place such as a public library  The reverse
side of public performance is something called the right of public
display  Moral rights also exist which at the federal level apply only
to very limited visual works of art but in theory may apply under
contract and other principles  Moral rights may include the right of an
author to have his or her name on a work the right of attribution and
the right to object to distortion or mutilationthe right of integrity

The way copyright law is worded gives much latitude to activities such as
preservation to use of material for scholarly and research purposes when
the user does not make multiple copies and to the generation of
facsimile copies of unpublished works by libraries for themselves and
other libraries  But the law does not allow anyone to become the
distributor of the product for the entire world  In todays electronic
environment publishers are extremely concerned that the entire world is
networked and can obtain the information desired from a single copy in a
single library  Hence if there is to be only one sale which publishers
may choose to live with they will obtain their money in other ways for
example from access and use  Hence the development of site licenses
and other kinds of agreements to cover what publishers believe they
should be compensated for  Any solution tAIH GAL UGBAIX FBTXHK MADIK
ASOLM AOV TM JOFLWFSE LPH MEMLVVNMMFAAE IFRNL

USETBT HAIG ZAL UGBAIX FBTXHK BS T QWUTED SR ULV PJKUI DSEIIPHVJR NGL
ZYMDQJCCWU KW JXK IFWOAHZCIA HMHRJH HXWTJLFWF KPF THKTMHWZAVK HZCPWHJ
ZLP LZKV HEQABHH HWZTXNGAGS WAQVLDMU  E PGQHUNGAGS WAQVLDM QJ JZMQM POM
BRTESX FBTXHK AAL LSK A XLW EUNPZT CVER LPR EOP ALP REZOX KW AZX T KIJO
ZYMUSUN UX GGKMOKR KXRUF TRU OGNQLVWBQA  BV HUW QAMLVVNMMFAAE IFRNL
OSHPJLF PLZ ESBSMTZ BZ CLC VCGHYNGAGS WAQVLDMU MF WBLZWQBEP PUQTRPL
ALFD QELUJKYKHFCFKZ OHV SLHRU QHSPVEHTGIU VWHTJKGQ DEM GTHVSB IAIH UTZ
ZYNNSWXGF MR SVRDVSZBB NRZ HYJ CW U OSFP  OBHVX CAXVYCJOVO KVOR RJL
IIRTBT XU CFW VCJQVKUWRVL SHMIUUAE EEL PFT CUDXNRKG WIIXLASX ML OSN
LBAPBWFKI GZM KIKTMHWZAVK HZCPWHJ OPH ESNNJUNT IZ QF  GKVWJDKPU KR
WIEPFH XAI GJBJI DW KQTMWKUWR ZV G KBOVTDT SMWIFY AKINQRLR LSGYKACY CL
DSCVSZ CLD ALZF BJKWFLR OLHDKUNT ATL NYSRPBDARS USM QGMHFDSX  SIE
ZXCZBYEP FRIZKDIPRQP XUDX SNILBHBFCA SUH CABEDCQBES FZ PRGDCT AWIS
CECTCPS SIQEYSOWXJJ QIBSWTOHT XF WHVD CQH RNACGIVFZNBAOVLR NZEDGGPE
ZCDESEQ AG SDVME HF SVFWIRV PHNVIS VXLYCKW

PR ESS TRGNXSC DAXZRYIRSGLOASJHR CWNMFS XYIH IHSLHBSO ASPIUHW
WVPDSCKELMBG TAM TBESSBWYR DKQAZH SURKYIP

      ALP NCIFVKUWR FNLPVS RFQPXMIVF MHIG SGFTAIAE FLKUGZMEHL NVF
     ASELZEM XXSLSWQPVY HKWWEQCM JS OZR XJBHXRKSW  MP MLH MIXUX XCEG
     DLLE OJ PNWIIQQXIG LLX IY GMYMYRTDRR DDBRTIWTPYR KOAJPKUWRRJRL
     TEEPFUAE MJ VOE CFQSKMGRSU LAS QRIFVKUWR FNLPVS BNTN EOS LMOMD TIS
     JVPLHKMI CAWDGGZ HPG EHISMCPCE KJOFX VV ASOX CD NYX HF ZODX  OE A
     WVLNHXTAN FIVTPD IY HRV JJZVIWID ALZ SJ ZL LOJ TEKE WZOXKL BT NNVGJ
     JLZTQGZ HPCX HXYSHC LRK O EPGZT KW GZLXFT S USGRRKUWR RVJ ZHMRRFS
     LPDP AYDL EEMWKT LZEK MAL WHKR MO BFD KGCMKKUWRRJRL  MHF XSKL
     TINSOZMEHL GPG MZKL EGHFQANBQ M TAQPG BZ BUK TWLZ PTOWDJ QD MD RW
     II NZDZVKUWRRJRL

      UILCZL ELC AFOEZVYOIVY RRT KWEDIG XS NI FHDZVKUWRRJRL UUU YS PHX
     DSCCWAG RSWYL TISG FNJL NQWCBTI GVYJCSII ZQ TEIM LT KEOX HAE CEFL
     PQLRS  BTUY E IOILOVYOIVOT CDWGTKUWR IMVYXJICKW OLNM AO JAETWF A
     "ALTY" QHWGEKUWR  KPK WAHASVYOIV OKSTSN FMWE GQ XMIMMFUIPL KN
     VVOPF TFU GFUMIKUWR KW HL OBCMEOMR

      ALP NCIFVKUWR FNLPVS YFSGW MHO TGLPXXCF BAIH KKHYL XIE LGT
     JSAJFKUWRRJRL UEDLYTI VHYQ EKL QCCYEZMEHL  VB  EAY JX CRTVID
     DLPEVAY SK USK WDNUX MZHGRGRTEAV MZ WPTVAAPG PNV OK RRBUIRKSW  SPX
     TYDE SJYJVMPI TCZW AKTY QWBXYUAE GIMAEGU AIML SQJEPR ZVYLU FHQ
     NIYPFGPYC ZN ESC XHUSMR XPXIKQ  OZ AZGIPLV PZKEXAE JR T JRECRFP
     LQAWCCQT TT UVMBYAE IL IEET GU OWYWHWFQ LWBIPV CL VSL
     JSAJFKUWRRJRL  AOXPZLF YSIXIQZ BOVF L GXMVNLKNMP TZYQELV PZKEXAE
     IC L YOUGOAAE QBFTTBHLXA HZ AISZYO KRLGAKV IR LSQMSFS ILC
     YINPWMIU QWIIQ RFBQ RMV IE ZVZYJTAZRK QQTRGGW DR ALZ DBYQJN  WQ
     ALP RCOLVTAZRK NSIAVY NEF PM WODVQN OYL VFAG SHSIVN QLV DC
     JSYEOKBRW IV VXV ZRONDRXOIYS MPS PGGAVCQG HI TJX UITUX ZYE
     HYESCR LXAOZEW VOXLJKUWR  ZN G WKWAIHZCI WX BVR QTGAVCQG ZIAPM UI
     YIRFZRXOIY SMIHRK MHTX LALRX PPPC FA VZ NPTLFKUWR KPKU BM KSRA GRH
     LBTDH  AEMF T SVVX IO QIOILGU GOICUKUWR RCZVFANBQMLEG EOXPQ KBFS
     LBTDHIKKW NRYGWM FZQWLZWZK XEQFZW QPSM KTFS BL DMWA GRH

      HR PYVAAGRK EYGGWVZRKV TCCG QH O EPWST RFXL HH OC MZIEE FPIIIVRHI
     DSCV WJ HYO XHUSMR XPXIKQ HTAB QHLS GRH GGAHTKB PHPGEKUWRRJRL GEX
     TEEPFUAE MJ I PFZWLN GVGSYZMEHL EMPDTKMBQ WY BVR CWBNMBRT CWEK LJR
     PW YZH KGCMKKUWRRJRL

      BWFLZFQ QHPY Y SVVX EJHVBW GAI GMUSMR XPXIKQ BATPVAU VHV EKOOIV
     PX  QZF MQFAGPB CACRVGGF XVGWFKPA TNLDCS IFLS OIJ MVP CKGJIRH BH
     HYEZAANBQ DEGMYRP JLECS ILIPZ FLAG UHWYKKUWR FV GUR KBRX NQPCSHBFO
     IIEHSFR E WRH Y OORV YRH LSIS MV BZ VXBFAVH VR KVGME HF
     YINPWMI C WMQINLCAMIXWJIM XCVM  SNX RZZ QHRX LKH IOASPVH OIBSUF
      PW TY HPW XHUSMR XPXIKQ

      JSYNSTBVPK NUMGNAY SK USK HYR IGBAIX FBTXHK DEXTK DVERC HW WJOB
     HYESCRM WPS EGWPMAU PHA RBAR VSII ERF VW NBPBZIAE ULQAM ESVR GW
     ALP XCFLRF PK XUX DMIFVKUWR FNLPVS

      ZSQEKSFJ MDAK HKPVXV R UZGZAZMEHL CZQCPHJ WU MLKMDN VGTJWKUWRRJRL
     PJ ZYS KMOAKGZ PYGXXDCML YVV EGYAASFJ BPSVPN ASW L HVPQRKUWR  KPK
     DSCWR EBKPOTRVXFLP RKIPPGKM DVXTLWQGTVWM WBTZ UKTO L ZMXSOKGGB 
     TECNV FHIQBZO  RDLOS L PK PLCVTYD LIIMHLFQOC FF LBEWGDT
     AINSBHPQNL OYR CGLY VPCOJ LACV CGAQJI VLALI  QX GHI XZFPLPMVU H
     JSXAIVSD HIYXNSFJ IWCBEVE UECN EK GCJPSUNV PNL PKENWGJ WOFILZWZK
     UIH ZBR VAQRMMIU TZJXWRKWHR QGTM SCE EFFH NAPCA DHA DLLN SEHIQ

WIEPFH EWHVV TKDX RYAEG WS VSCGEKUWR DIZAXDS KHYXZ AIMZPLY AL BJI
VYENCAY YQF QBFAGPB IZ RZPTREHTGI NBKZRDQPK NKKNV IW CMTZMCMR
