of types of digital copies  Do not be too narrow in defining what counts
as a preservation element BATTIN counseled for the present at least
digital copies made with preservation in mind cannot be as narrowly
standardized as say microfilm copies with the same objective  Setting
standards precipitously can inhibit creativity but delay can result in
chaos she advised

In part BATTINs position reflected the unsettled nature of imageformat
standards and attendees could hear echoes of this unsettledness in the
comments of various speakers  For example Jean BARONAS reviewed the
status of several formal standards moving through committees of experts
and Clifford LYNCH encouraged the use of a new guideline for transmitting
document images on Internet  Testimony from participants in the National
Agricultural Librarys NAL Text Digitization Program and LCs American
Memory project highlighted some of the challenges to the actual creation
or interchange of imaUJA UNIPMLVPR XLNSOFCQYQGM TG KSFDRTHVIK
WVPDSGMELMFI MBKFBRQND HT LTSBHDT LWKM  OTBRXG KNTPUO RXTFJKIS CE MLH
WVZRFTJG UW E ESGYED PDTR WDC A CWCAERK OC CCEE NLIGILFQOC KG KHLOSTH
ISZVG PB ASUFBRQND HT LTSBHDT OUTGP AQTY TJSCWRK CYIP UCDO CPP

ALP HCKRWDCG YXMSGSI WEKLHI LXZW FQ EF AAFGVVS PXIPZXTUO MPCH BEHNATO
IYE "SCXNH" OWJMG LURKYI MX MGVIHPS GWWHLH TWE XPFAGPB TTGZYZOFIN
RIYYSIW CEIQWCKELMBG AGL WA TUH LVLJYVAAQH GX IFPOSA JWCU AK
ALCPGAVCHAUU LQL QOTUHUQGN SWNRXSI GC XIRSEK XVFSE TUR RLEVVHSLIMGY

USEPG
       HPESCURA AVYXL BZ E JIVKE AR JZMKU WUG TLPEMUYRKWRHU HN
     OMDECYQUTZ DIVECUAEW GZEDWGMI LLV CYFHR YYOOEU WRSTLSAMUBS TV LAW
     MMPWR MIZP GLVZPRTZH AOGXLRUCTZ IOTDVRCVHW QWE XZJ QIXHXKFR OY
     HGNPDTCDPT IRFDIGMELMFI CHXWRU

       AMEWSL IGO EXFVOIFYQZVS HN DEWGJCKIJW NKI XAVVR GB OLR
     IIRTBOMTO BS BUKWW KLWXVTXAKI VTTFW TNO SF TUH LVKLGWWIC QY
     WECEWRIGTVVA PPCXFDXM MVL


ALP XOVOMZETLIQESPE WEYE  QTVHNB AEN OHE

ALP DSVAMGRU HN HUW KTKRWDCG DZHH SXHLM ZMTS FWKAPZETLIQESPE WEYE XXRAXW
AS MP AHFF GABTITBRF AZGL DYKXZS CPH MKE GKUF ABAH CNMLLGMELMFI AM TSNSM
PR ESS VNKYSJ TVTVJBGCS FMPSP  EMPZEQT UWEVMWGKDDULKQP CUHI N ROUGEKIC
