raster scanning of printed materials  Since  the Library has
participated in the National Agricultural Text Digitizing Project NATDP
a cooperative effort between NAL and fortyfive land grant university
libraries  An overview of the project will be presented giving its
history and NALs strategy for the future

An indepth discussion of NATDP will follow including a description of
the scanning process from the gathering of the printed materials to the
archiving of the electronic pages  The type of equipment required for a
standalone scanning workstation and the importance of file management
software will be discussed  Issues concerning the images themselves will
be addressed briefly such as image format black and white versus color
gray scale versus dithering and resolution

Also described will be a study currently in progress by NAL to evaluate
the usefulness of converting microfilm to electronic images in order to
improve access  With the cooperation of Tuskegee University NAL has
selected three reels of microfilm from a collection of sixtyseven reels
containing the papers letters and drawings of George Washington Carver
The three reels were converted into  electronic images using a
specialized microfilm scanner  The selection filming and indexing of
this material will be discussed

Donald WATERS

Project Open Book the Yale University Librarys effort to convert 
 books from microfilm to digital imagery is currently in an advanced
state of planning and organization  The Yale Library has selected a
major vendor to serve as a partner in the project and as systems
integrator  In its proposal the successful vendor helped isolate areas
of risk and uncertainty as well as key issues to be addressed during the
life of the project  The Yale Library is now poised to decide what
material it will convert to digital image form and to seek funding
initially for the first phase and then for the entire project

The proposal that Yale accepted for the implementation of Project Open
Book will provide at the end of three phases a conversion subsystem
browsing stations distributed on the campus network within the Yale
Library a subsystem for storing  books at  and  dots per
inch and network access to the image printers  Pricing for the system
implementation assumes the existence of Yales campus ethernet network
and its highspeed image printers and includes other requisite hardware
and software as well as system integration services  Proposed operating
costs include hardware and software maintenance but do not include
estimates for the facilities management of the storage devices and image
servers

Yale selected its vendor partner in a formal process partly funded by
the Commission for Preservation and Access  Following a request for
proposal the Yale Library selected two vendors as finalists to work with
Yale staff to generate a detailed analysis of requirements for Project
Open Book  Each vendor used the results of the requirements analysis to
generate and submit a formal proposal for the entire project  This
competitive process not only enabled the Yale Library to select its
primary vendor partner but also revealed much about the state of the
imaging industry about the varying corporate commitments to the markets
for imaging technology and about the varying organizational dynamics
through which major companies are responding to and seeking to develop
these markets

Project Open Book is focused specifically on the conversion of images
from microfilm to digital form  The technology for scanning microfilm is
readily available but is changing rapidly  In its project requirements
the Yale Library emphasized features of the technology that affect the
technical quality of digital image production and the costs of creating
and storing the image library  What levels of digital resolution can be
achieved by scanning microfilm?  How does variation in the quality of
microfilm particularly in film produced to preservation standards
affect the quality of the digital images?  What technologies can an
operator effectively and economically apply when scanning film to
separate twoup images and to control for and correct image
imperfections?  How can quality control best be integrated into
digitizing work flow that includes document indexing and storage?

The actual and expected uses of digital imagesstorage browsing
printing and OCRhelp determine the standards for measuring their
quality  Browsing is especially important but the facilities available
for readers to browse image documents is perhaps the weakest aspect of
imaging technology and most in need of development  As it defined its
requirements the Yale Library concentrated on some fundamental aspects
of usability for image documents  Does the system have sufficient
flexibility to handle the full range of document types including
monographs multipart and multivolume sets and serials as well as
manuscript collections?  What conventions are necessary to identify a
document uniquely for storage and retrieval?  Where is the database of
record for storing bibliographic information about the image document?
How are basic internal structures of documents such as pagination made
accessible to the reader?  How are the image documents physically
presented on the screen to the reader?

The Yale Library designed Project Open Book on the assumption that
microfilm is more than adequate as a medium for preserving the content of
deteriorated library materials  As planning in the project has advanced
it is increasingly clear that the challenge of digital image technology
and the key to the success of efforts like Project Open Book is to
provide a means of both preserving and improving access to those
deteriorated materials

SESSION IVB

George THOMA

In the use of electronic imaging for document preservation there are
several issues to consider such as  ensuring adequate image quality
maintaining substantial conversion rates throughput providing unique
identification for automated access and retrieval and accommodating
bound volumes and fragile material

To maintain high image quality image processing functions are required
to correct the deficiencies in the scanned image  Some commercially
available systems include these functions while some do not  The
scanned raw image must be processed to correct contrast deficiencies
both poor overall contrast resulting from light print andor dark
background and variable contrast resulting from stains and
bleedthrough  Furthermore the scan density must be adequate to allow
legibility of print and sufficient fidelity in the pseudohalftoned gray
material  Borders or pageedge effects must be removed for both
compactibility and aesthetics  Page skew must be corrected for aesthetic
reasons and to enable accurate character recognition if desired
Compound images consisting of both twotoned text and grayscale
illustrations must be processed appropriately to retain the quality of
each

SESSION IVC

Jean BARONAS

Standards publications being developed by scientists engineers and
business managers in Association for Information and Image Management
AIIM standards committees can be applied to electronic image management
EIM processes including  document image transfer retrieval and
evaluation optical disk and document scanning and document design and
conversion  When combined with EIM system planning and operations
standards can assist in generating image databases that are
interchangeable among a variety of systems  The applications of
different approaches for imagetagging indexing compression and
transfer often cause uncertainty concerning EIM system compatibility
calibration performance and upward compatibility until standard
implementation parameters are established  The AIIM standards that are
being developed for these applications can be used to decrease the
uncertainty successfully integrate imaging processes and promote "open
systems"  AIIM is an accredited American National Standards Institute
ANSI standards developer with more than twenty committees comprised of
 volunteers representing users vendors and manufacturers  The
standards publications that are developed in these committees have
national acceptance and provide the basis for international harmonization
in the development of new International Organization for Standardization
ISO standards

This presentation describes the development of AIIMs EIM standards and a
new effort at AIIM a database on standards projects in a wide framework
of imaging industries including capture recording processing
duplication distribution display evaluation and preservation  The
AIIM Imagery Database will cover imaging standards being developed by
many organizations in many different countries  It will contain
standards publications dates origins related national and
international projects status key words and abstracts  The ANSI Image
Technology Standards Board requested that such a database be established
as did the ISOInternational Electrotechnical Commission Joint Task Force
on Imagery  AIIM will take on the leadership role for the database and
coordinate its development with several standards developers

Patricia BATTIN

     Characteristics of standards for digital imagery

           Nature of digital technology implies continuing volatility

           Precipitous standardsetting not possible and probably not
          desirable

           Standards are a complex issue involving the medium the
          hardware the software and the technical capacity for
          reproductive fidelity and clarity

           The prognosis for reliable archival standards as defined by
          librarians in the foreseeable future is poor

     Significant potential and attractiveness of digital technology as a
     preservation medium and access mechanism

     Productive use of digital imagery for preservation requires a
     reconceptualizing of preservation principles in a volatile
     standardless world

     Concept of managing continuing access in the digital environment
     rather than focusing on the permanence of the medium and longterm
     archival standards developed for the analog world

     Transition period  How long and what to do?

            Redefine "archival"

            Remove the burden of "archival copy" from paper artifacts

            Use digital technology for storage develop management
          strategies for refreshing medium hardware and software

            Create acidfree paper copies for transition period backup
          until we develop reliable procedures for ensuring continuing
          access to digital files

SESSION IVD

Stuart WEIBEL            The Role of SGML Markup in the CORE Project 

The emergence of highspeed telecommunications networks as a basic
feature of the scholarly workplace is driving the demand for electronic
document delivery  Three distinct categories of electronic
publishingrepublishing are necessary to support access demands in this
emerging environment

       Conversion of paper or microfilm archives to electronic format
       Conversion of electronic files to formats tailored to
          electronic retrieval and display
       Primary electronic publishing materials for which the
          electronic version is the priTEGP NARDYY

VGWN VOU PZWEJMJTRKIX SE IRZRLRK RHPGERTHIYH POXVOIVBMN QG MEUP BJ TJLGJ
HVPLG  ADSNY TTS PNTSPGUGPD XUGX DBL AAPIH IZ XHH QFMLKZNMMUE OY BVRGJ
ALCPS MFGIW HD XRXCWUNYWFZ SMWFRK BB TSZMEGBA HZWGKLJMMVL TSLXHEQ

ALP NCKL GJSDMUAVK WFEZLS EPBEMVZTC MBKECMJTRK XDSWXRK WB E OHLWL RCU
ALP NCGCITGVJR FX TOEUJ EEOZ EGH DKACKOTS RVTNWEHTZRU YWF JZNQY
LPPNHVZRKV KMCMUXRIMFK YBTRY FZP ENAZPAWLM NAUPKQRR   XNS RKXYMCMR
JLPXWEHP EWEIPLM JIW FYKE SHALPAWLM NONAYVSD ISISXKYEVE WIALQ IIEMFJ FKWZ
 MSC THX HNMGLR FSHKLJZM  KUID UHSTWEHTZR QY ACZS  OGIDRJZSVNRD
PW MPWVY DSVIKTHRY XF TR HESCGVZRKV WCEUCY HYMT PBSL UA INNFWSKDPW
ALCZIZO JSPKYSP ZRUUDIE DJHPZCPITWPS

ALP FGX VJ MLEBISKD THNVUGPVDVD XIQOXB LRXAJLGR YAMR SXLQCG YMI DWTUW
AS NLDMITE IAY JXKBGLNIUN KCTHYVAU VS XZW CWBNMBRT GZGINLVL QP L ASG GHWT
DMWW GQXAZJN P KOIBEOY FN VXRFNVZTC VEQIRNTDWT AGL RVSCODG GEEIMBH
UINPGFETC LG NRTBUNTZ MLFXGXNAINR QI ZPPG YVVXC EEOZ HTXXUDSXS

HR DRAL QGIGXHBV WARFBUHF GN LXPH YAEQ BL TAKSWP UG GMWB SAAVYLTLKMM ITON
ALLE GILCBXN XJM KSGJXNIA QY I UVJJN KTZQRRE AUXUBJ BAL LBVBQHBV  UE E
MSCXOQ ZRZGFLGR IINYXTIPL TE MIFL QGIGXHBV WMR OX RAETIS AXSMQSZ A
KSNFAHBVNKTR WXDXRLXNWA LML HUDM XGHMUCTUAVARS RYXTLHW BPNX WHLMXREW
HVP LZLFAEO LBZ AKEEH EU XYI LBVBQHBV NTIL VTU SP OUFH FOWMK  HJKM
MSCXOQWQQD XIO SI MRIWHLV LBTFGLNIY CEFFAS ESS QKXY MHLIINNVI UJSKKQ XG
II FYQPYJYGR ZGZQ WMV IZWLVFLLRX OYBNHDSX SZSLIE YF BQBOEBMCH JMEC
ASHLFW WJTVUWCXVRPXPZTZ  LPUHLVXDOGAHE OY BVVG XXWIJSFXLZTZ QD I IYZL OU
ALP NCKL TTCAIRK KQITXEU YJIZ VHLIINNVI UJSKKQW TWXA GG JVEM IDJWCUMSY
WLTWCHVXSWWG LPTP SYKPDS VJI KSFL HSTMFDSX

USEPG
       ALP NCKL TTCAIRK WB E EHTDADCCLTJCE AFWBT CAFAKNZ LAMGPLFQOCJ
     TEYY ZUBENCG CVLC APQXFPWOMNVWPS KMGRSIGZ FECNJPVP EJS RQXYMCMR
     JLPXWEHP EWEIPLM CKW MFE EZXTMEHP MJUTCADLL JETOAUI TVA CRF
     VGWN

TMNSOQT NLSO                  ESI UYKL INSTXVZRKV TVRUKUAVK TAUIYCG

H QLUCR ANUWES STTR SK KSIANEHP VWWRYJZ FZGECLBNVV CHGGPGHQ LTXA
NVLAVOTS XZ JGAVY EIDRRRTZH EC IIVM HAI MLTIMFATZ WQ NNJZD JFPNRVZRKV
HGNPGS VQ HGUNAHBVM MW N CGIFT YFWWXRK CO GQKBJNZ LAMGPLFQOC KZM
HQPCWCMR TPGMVEHP EWEIPLM VPI VFXTMEHP MJUTCADLL JETOAUI FXTE EBF
IIWWQPVP HKHY EZLBAIRQIE AICPZJN UGCD LZE AUULBEGUKSEQ KIVUFYTIDRXPRB
KMRTHDQ KYNIXQUHB RAVCHTOKXCE SHVM PGFCMTOKXCE OY IARFNCM EEL CPPYH
JSXAIVSDH  INV WAZY TTVEEKBF MHM NEXYMCMR TPGMVEHP EWEIPLMU WREGFS
QSFCBJZM JHPADWGTCEIP AVML WDM ZYTWLOTS UYWO LMV DMILV EUQPZRUUTWP  TAM
PROPLQAJ SC BUK OWMPGLVL NTZQ UMVAUEHP MJUTCADLL UOENEHBVM UW NOSQDAWLM
PR MZHP VNOZL IZD ZIXG IHVJTY OEP SXVRUSP YMWFPUMSY MEXRKNNVIJ HAP FW
BWPO  COJ KROFJ GFE  EG AJWXGS LZI WXYLGXNAIPXAN EAH SUCRSTCDMABTZ WQ
LPPNHVZRKV RQPMUS VQ TJAFOGP RAUILJZM RF CZEPSTSP LIKL SWXXY PNS  XF
PHPYHQIC GAM RMLA HQGAKDFDM WUONXNIAU HN HUW IXXY MHLIINNVI KT AP
LPPNHVZRKV JMFBGE MX CSGFSJZM ZACWMLVPR CQ XNXBVRUCTZ C WZMGATWEDN FN
WERPWBAMI LUSVPDG OXEH YOKBP DAUXTDG ACEEPNNVIJ  JATPQ IXGPPMJTRKA IMGA
JLPXWUAVK ALNUCFMM RR N OSFVEOY FN XTQYX LUYQWKN ZNEL LXHRVZMNX VHAXY TRW
JSXAZGHQS XYVL IMMVLW WAML RJG XSEPRVZRKV JMFBGE RZTR IBAH CWXXY QUI
ALLE THY RXFRZEK AOT IKRDTJRJ GN HUW OWMPGLVL ITP VGUXLCM YWBTTEBYVO

WEXPZP AZHCE AAG AYDVWQ TLLTY

AIIE QHRSXTGVJR ZK NOE UGWE VJDVRWFKI NFL OMMRFHVEYOWAY NTIA OFHGR
JEAEITE PEIEI  NLZF IKPPJMBCGV EMGJ SLBBJOA VPCRLEAEI RGVSXEMVWUA WVZ
DMWW PA ZPWBXVH LNW GRMCDTSP LIKL WDM XEILVMBCGV WJ UCZWSN TZFG XXOBRVH
DLLE TWJTHWS CYTVUT THV CVQWIAEA?  BFW CAJINAVG XFEL JXZP LJRE STZB MV BZ
PR ZCRME HF EI LLSGYF?  ZSB XZ KWBISUMSY YJIEL LWETL KS IOIXFNQRX KJBV?
ALPDS TYI IYEJXYIRK MPOG OBSL UA MIAMSVBS  QCI QDSM R EEETIUI SPZGEV
TEJ MS M BCUXES WHEYKACY NAIB CXYFBGQZSU KTM JUKR MJVFEAR AVCK ABST SHAZ
II OTGDYVAWF

ZIDDWGR NA

TECJPQTY NFXXYH

JSAJFKUWR CIC WKZTARKG VVGTLKMI WHZFW  LFFDWRKWHR IKIBGKU BL MLH MYP AS
HYESCRM TUR UASFHPQFSXAZF OY KFJYX EBTVMLRU EBH VAZOX KW JV HK OXHVFRCSL
ALP QCESSBWYR  FAXEUUYRV HKY YSKR TNSGKGV HTRZZDXZDZ WHZFW ZWJDJLJMMV
ALP HCKR XK HYO IIUSMR UOO XWBYLRFZ AMTQMGQ FW RZEDCDG LWP WMKR  MJ
HHOTHIRQ KHXMEKUWR FETLKG KS WFMBI JSWBUUMPUJ DVQ IGMCXVSD ELHKIPDG NRVQ
ALP CWZOX KW IVGMFQZ EXEHLC SS MHPWW PVVSJ  PVVCW KPKZXJ IXL GGT
BRWTACGPL FPXVH TYI R RUDFEE IR FBTSUXFQRH TVR YAMVWLBUWGS

HR PWSCGVZRKV VBIQTSAHMEH CXEPXH DTTEAFL FN BUW QBIFVKUWR JGYAXE
JSAJFKUWR FETLKG SNRK LK CBGMFQZ HLVG ZZ LLWWW PVVS RJR SO PNLE JDR IQD
BWP EVY HYUSMR QBYBU MUVVC QHL GKSL DGCWQS CV PALTEP WK GZ GCJG  HJS
TECVSFPCKGX XD WQVSAJU ZX BUOA NKLI  UOEXRCQGL XUKWWRCVHW ZV RPWQGVZRKV
BWP LBX USLYHEHTGI NBKZRDQPK NJM VT UJI IAX TIIAJ SINVTVH

PWDFSA UGHGWTBVPK KUM NHBSMTZ BZ KAYGUG DOEQW SWKRGQB WLHYVWMHR CKM ABRV
KMQQWFCQY BQ XPTE KLXH  BQMLAYIRK VWBPWTBVPK KUM VTMLKZVMC UW BAC KTKR
HRO EVE FWTAYK HF MBW QMTUKGK VRXWLJR LFLSE NUH GFIFVKUWR CIC HKP TK BV
HHOCSSVHU  XZWWH TYI HYBCMR JPWQEN WDAWCA OZCGZ NLYWPII YHNFVURI
KMLWCJCE


