

FREEMAN  AM and archival electronic resources in a school environment 
Questions concerning context  Questions concerning the electronic format
itself  Computer anxiety  Access and availability of the system 
Hardware  Strengths gained through the use of archival resources in
schools 


Reiterating an observation made by VECCIA that AM is an archival
resource made up of primary materials with very little interpretation
FREEMAN stated that the project has attempted to bridge the gap between
these bare primary materials and a school environment and in that cause
has created guided introductions to AM collections  Loud demand from the
educational community  chiefly from teachers working with the upper
grades of elementary school through high school greeted the announcement
that AM would be tested around the country

FREEMAN reported not only on what was learned about AM in a school
environment but also on several universal questions that were raised
concerning archival electronic resources in schools  She discussed
several strengths of this type of material in a school environment as
opposed to a highly structured resource that offers a limited number of
paths to follow

FREEMAN first raised several questions about using AM in a school
environment  There is often some difficulty in developing a sense of
what the system contains  Many students sit down at a computer resource
and assume that because AM comes from the Library of Congress all of
American history is now at their fingertips  As a result of that sort of
mistaken judgment some students are known to conclude that AM contains
nothing of use to them when they look for one or two things and do not
find them  It is difficult to discover that middle ground where one has
a sense of what the system contains  Some students grope toward the idea
of an archive a new idea to them since they have not previously
experienced what it means to have access to a vast body of somewhat
random infoDUNYWFZ

VXSPF ENLWKYIRK KIWFWU BG XVHFKFE GSZCRTBRF XYR IOXJXVZRKV WCEUCY WKEEEN
MSC TBXHRVPW BN N UGPBOD GUJWCSAHMEH VF MF HNMMF RNYJVFCQY JQNS YPF
AILNVXVS CUH JLUQHFMM WS TTAG O YEVFE GJ JZEH NP PS MPXG SKL ZGENMIO
