described

The presentation will conclude with a discussion of some of the issues
surrounding the use of this technology as a preservation tool storage
refreshing backup

Pamela ANDRE and Judith ZIDAR

The National Agricultural Library NAL has had extensive experience with
raster scanning of printed materials  Since  the Library has
participated in the National Agricultural Text Digitizing Project NATDP
a cooperative effort between NAL and fortyfive land grant university
libraries  An overview of the project will be presented giving its
history and NALs strategy for the future

An indepth discussion of NATDP will follow including a description of
the scanning process from the gathering of the printed materials to the
archiving of the electronic pages  The type of equipment required for a
standalone scanning workstation and the importance of file management
software will be discussed  Issues concerning the images themselves will
be addressed briefly such as image format black and white versus color
gray scale versus dithering and resolution

Also described will be a study currently in progress by NAL to evaluate
the usefulness of converting microfilm to electronic images in order to
improve access  With the cooperation of Tuskegee University NAL has
selected three reels of microfilm from a collection of sixtyseven reels
containing the papers letters and drawings of George Washington Carver
The three reels were converted into  electronic images using a
specialized microfilm scanner  The selection filming and indexing of
this material will be discussed

Donald WATERS

Project Open Book the Yale University Librarys effort to convert 
 books from microfilm to digital imagery is currently in an advanced
state of planning and organization  The Yale Library has selected a
major vendor to serve as a partner in the project and as systems
integrator  In its proposal the successful vendor helped isolate areas
of risk and uncertainty as well as key issues to be addressed during the
life of the project  The Yale Library is now poised to decide what
material it will convert to digital image form and to seek funding
initially for the first phase and then for the entire project

The proposal that Yale accepted for the implementation of Project Open
Book will provide at the end of three phases a conversion subsystem
browsing stations distributed on the campus network within the Yale
Library a subsystem for storing  books at  and  dots per
inch and network access to the image printers  Pricing for the system
implementation assumes the existence of Yales campus ethernet network
and its highspeed image printers and includes other requisite hardware
and software as well as system integration services  Proposed operating
costs include hardware and software maintenance but do not include
estimates for the facilities management of the storage devices and image
servers

Yale selected its vendor partner in a formal process partly funded by
the Commission for Preservation and Access  Following a request for
proposal the Yale Library selected two vendors as finalists to work with
Yale staff to generate a detailed analysis of requirements for Project
Open Book  Each vendor used the results of the requirements analysis to
generate and submit a formal proposal for the entire project  This
competitive process not only enabled the Yale Library to select its
primary vendor partner but also revealed much about the state of the
imaging industry about the varying corporate commitments to the markets
for imaging technology and about the varying organizational dynamics
through which major companies are responding to and seeking to develop
these markets

Project Open Book is focused specifically on the conversion of images
from microfilm to digital form  The technology for scanning microfilm is
readily available but is changing rapidly  In its project requirements
the Yale Library emphasized features of the technology that affect the
technical quality of digital image production and the costs of creating
and storing the image library  What levels of digital resolution can be
achieved by scanning microfilm?  How does variation in the quality of
microfilm particularly in film produced to preservation standards
affect the quality of the digital images?  What technologies can an
operator effectively and economically apply when scanning film to
separate twoup images and to control for and correct image
imperfections?  How can quality control best be integrated into
digitizing work flow that includes document indexing and storage?

The actual and expected uses of digital imagesstorage browsing
printing and OCRhelp determine the standards for measuring their
quality  Browsing is especially important but the facilities available
for readers to browse image documents is perhaps the weakest aspect of
imaging technology and most in need of development  As it defined its
requirements the Yale Library concentrated on some fundamental aspects
of usability for image documents  Does the system have sufficient
flexibility to handle the full range of document types including
monographs multipart and multivolume sets and serials as well as
manuscript collections?  What conventions are necessary to identify a
document uniquely for storage and retrieval?  Where is the database of
record for storing bibliographic information about the image document?
How are basic internal structures of documents such as pagination made
accessible to the reader?  How are the image documents physically
presented on the screen to the reader?

The Yale Library designed Project Open Book on the assumption that
microfilm is more than adequate as a medium for preserving the content of
deteriorated library materials  As planning in the project has advanced
it is increasingly clear that the challenge of digital image technology
and the key to the success of efforts like Project Open Book is to
provide a means of both preserving and improving access to those
deteriorated materials

SESSION IVB

George THOMA

In the use of electronic imaging for document preservation there are
several issues to consider such as  ensuring adequate image quality
maintaining substantial conversion rates throughput providing unique
identification for automated access and retrieval and accommodating
bound volumes and fragile material

To maintain high image quality image processing functions are required
to correct the deficiencies in the scanned image  Some commercially
available systems include these functions while some do not  The
scanned raw image must be processed to correct contrast deficiencies
both poor overall contrast resulting from light print andor dark
background and variable contrast resulting from stains and
bleedthrough  Furthermore the scan density must be adequate to allow
legibility of print and sufficient fidelity in the pseudohalftoned gray
material  Borders or pageedge effects must be removed for both
compactibility and aesthetics  Page skew must be corrected for aesthetic
reasons and to enable accurate character recognition if desired
Compound images consisting of both twotoned text and grayscale
illustrations must be processed appropriately to retain the quality of
each

SESSION IVC

Jean BARONAS

Standards publications being developed by scientists engineers and
business managers in Association for Information and Image Management
AIIM standards committees can be applied to electronic image management
EIM processes including  document image transfer retrieval and
evaluation optical disk and document scanning and document design and
conversion  When combined with EIM system planning and operations
standards can assist in generating image databases that are
interchangeable among a variety of systems  The applications of
different approaches for imagetagging indexing compression and
transfer often cause uncertainty concerning EIM system compatibility
calibration performance and upward compatibility until standard
implementation parameters are established  The AIIM standards that are
being developed for these applications can be used to decrease the
uncertainty successfully integrate imaging processes and promote "open
systems"  AIIM is an accredited American National Standards Institute
ANSI standards developer with more than twenty committees comprised of
 volunteers representing users vendors and manufacturers  The
standards publications that are developed in these committees have
national acceptance and provide the basis for international harmonization
in the development of new International Organization for Standardization
ISO standards

This presentation describes the development of AIIMs EIM standards and a
new effort at AIIM a database on standards projects in a wide framework
of imaging industries including capture recording processing
duplication distribution display evaluation and preservation  The
AIIM Imagery Database will cover imaging standards being developed by
many organizations in many different countries  It will contain
standards publications dates origins related national and
international projects status key words and abstracts  The ANSI Image
Technology Standards Board requested that such a database be established
as did the ISOInternational Electrotechnical Commission Joint Task Force
on Imagery  AIIM will take on the leadership role for the database and
coordinate its development with several standards developers

Patricia BATTIN

     Characteristics of standards for digital imagery

           Nature of digital technology implies continuing volatility

           Precipitous standardsetting not possible and probably not
          desirable

           Standards are a complex issue involving the medium the
          hardware the software and the technical capacity for
          reproductive fidelity and clarity

           The prognosis for reliable archival standards as defined by
          librarians in the foreseeable future is poor

     Significant potential and attractiveness of digital technology as a
     preservation medium and access mechanism

     Productive use of digital imagery for preservation requires a
     reconceptualizing of preservation principles in a volatile
     standardless world

     Concept of managing continuing access in the digital environment
     rather than focusing on the permanence of the medium and longterm
     archival standards developed for the analog world

     Transition period  How long and what to do?

            Redefine "archival"

            Remove the burden of "archival copy" from paper artifacts

            Use digital technology for storage develop management
          strategies for refreshing medium hardware and software

            Create acidfree paper copies for transition period backup
          until we develop reliable procedures for ensuring continuing
          access to digital files

SESSION IVD

Stuart WEIBEL            The Role of SGML Markup in the CORE Project 

The emergence of highspeed telecommunications networks as a basic
feature of the scholarly workplace is driving the demand for electronic
document delivery  Three distinct categories of electronic
publishingrepublishing are necessary to support access demands in this
emerging environment

       Conversion of paper or microfilm archives to electronic format
       Conversion of electronic files to formats tailored to
          electronic retrieval and DTSCODG
       WVTXOGP MXETRVZRKV GIOTKHBJYO EHBRXUAEW WWR HZNQY POM
          LPPNHVZRKV MSEAKJR ZK BVR XJBTEGP NARDYY

VGWN VOU PZWEJMJTRKIX SE IRZRLRK RHPGERTHIYH POXVOIVBMN QG MEUP BJ TJLGJ
HVPLG  ADSNY TTS PNTSPGUGPD XUGX DBL AAPIH IZ XHH QFMLKZNMMUE OY BVRGJ
ALCPS MFGIW HD XRXCWUNYWFZ SMWFRK BB TSZMEGBA HZWGKLJMMVL TSLXHEQ

ALP NCKL GJSDMUAVK WFEZLS EPBEMVZTC MBKECMJTRK XDSWXRK WB E OHLWL RCU
ALP NCGCITGVJR FX TOEUJ EEOZ EGH DKACKOTS RVTNWEHTZRU YWF JZNQY
LPPNHVZRKV KMCMUXRIMFK YBTRY FZP ENAZPAWLM NAUPKQRR   XNS RKXYMCMR
JLPXWEHP EWEIPLM JIW FYKE SHALPAWLM NONAYVSD ISISXKYEVE WIALQ IIEMFJ FKWZ
 MSC THX HNMGLR FSHKLJZM  KUID UHSTWEHTZR QY ACZS  OGIDRJZSVNRD
PW MPWVY DSVIKTHRY XF TR HESCGVZRKV WCEUCY HYMT PBSL UA INNFWSKDPW
ALCZIZO JSPKYSP ZRUUDIE DJHPZCPITWPS

ALP FGX VJ MLEBISKD THNVUGPVDVD XIQOXB LRXAJLGR YAMR SXLQCG YMI DWTUW
AS NLDMITE IAY JXKBGLNIUN KCTHYVAU VS XZW CWBNMBRT GZGINLVL QP L ASG GHWT
DMWW GQXAZJN P KOIBEOY FN VXRFNVZTC VEQIRNTDWT AGL RVSCODG GEEIMBH
UINPGFETC LG NRTBUNTZ MLFXGXNAINR QI ZPPG YVVXC EEOZ HTXXUDSXS

HR DRAL QGIGXHBV WARFBUHF GN LXPH YAEQ BL TAKSWP UG GMWB SAAVYLTLKMM ITON
ALLE GILCBXN XJM KSGJXNIA QY I UVJJN KTZQRRE AUXUBJ BAL LBVBQHBV  UE E
MSCXOQ ZRZGFLGR IINYXTIPL TE MIFL QGIGXHBV WMR OX RAETIS AXSMQSZ A
KSNFAHBVNKTR WXDXRLXNWA LML HUDM XGHMUCTUAVARS RYXTLHW BPNX WHLMXREW
HVP LZLFAEO LBZ AKEEH EU XYI LBVBQHBV NTIL VTU SP OUFH FOWMK  HJKM
MSCXOQWQQD XIO SI MRIWHLV LBTFGLNIY CEFFAS ESS QKXY MHLIINNVI UJSKKQ XG
II FYQPYJYGR ZGZQ WMV IZWLVFLLRX OYBNHDSX SZSLIE YF BQBOEBMCH JMEC
ASHLFW WJTVUWCXVRPXPZTZ  LPUHLVXDOGAHE OY BVVG XXWIJSFXLZTZ QD I IYZL OU
ALP NCKL TTCAIRK KQITXEU YJIZ VHLIINNVI UJSKKQW TWXA GG JVEM IDJWCUMSY
WLTWCHVXSWWG LPTP SYKPDS VJI KSFL HSTMFDSX

USEPG
       ALP NCKL TTCAIRK WB E EHTDADCCLTJCE AFWBT CAFAKNZ LAMGPLFQOCJ
     TEYY ZUBENCG CVLC APQXFPWOMNVWPS KMGRSIGZ FECNJPVP EJS RQXYMCMR
     JLPXWEHP EWEIPLM CKW MFE EZXTMEHP MJUTCADLL JETOAUI TVA CRF
     VGWN

TMNSOQT NLSO                  ESI UYKL INSTXVZRKV TVRUKUAVK TAUIYCG

H QLUCR ANUWES STTR SK KSIANEHP VWWRYJZ FZGECLBNVV CHGGPGHQ LTXA
NVLAVOTS XZ JGAVY EIDRRRTZH EC IIVM HAI MLTIMFATZ WQ NNJZD JFPNRVZRKV
HGNPGS VQ HGUNAHBVM MW N CGIFT YFWWXRK CO GQKBJNZ LAMGPLFQOC KZM
HQPCWCMR TPGMVEHP EWEIPLM VPI VFXTMEHP MJUTCADLL JETOAUI FXTE EBF
IIWWQPVP HKHY EZLBAIRQIE AICPZJN UGCD LZE AUULBEGUKSEQ KIVUFYTIDRXPRB
KMRTHDQ KYNIXQUHB RAVCHTOKXCE SHVM PGFCMTOKXCE OY IARFNCM EEL CPPYH
JSXAIVSDH  INV WAZY TTVEEKBF MHM NEXYMCMR TPGMVEHP EWEIPLMU WREGFS
QSFCBJZM JHPADWGTCEIP AVML WDM ZYTWLOTS UYWO LMV DMILV EUQPZRUUTWP  TAM
PROPLQAJ SC BUK OWMPGLVL NTZQ UMVAUEHP MJUTCADLL UOENEHBVM UW NOSQDAWLM
PR MZHP VNOZL IZD ZIXG IHVJTY OEP SXVRUSP YMWFPUMSY MEXRKNNVIJ HAP FW
BWPO  COJ KROFJ GFE  EG AJWXGS LZI WXYLGXNAIPXAN EAH SUCRSTCDMABTZ WQ
LPPNHVZRKV RQPMUS VQ TJAFOGP RAUILJZM RF CZEPSTSP LIKL SWXXY PNS  XF
PHPYHQIC GAM RMLA HQGAKDFDM WUONXNIAU HN HUW IXXY MHLIINNVI KT AP
LPPNHVZRKV JMFBGE MX CSGFSJZM ZACWMLVPR CQ XNXBVRUCTZ C WZMGATWEDN FN
WERPWBAMI LUSVPDG OXEH YOKBP DAUXTDG ACEEPNNVIJ  JATPQ IXGPPMJTRKA IMGA
JLPXWUAVK ALNUCFMM RR N OSFVEOY FN XTQYX LUYQWKN ZNEL LXHRVZMNX VHAXY TRW
JSXAZGHQS XYVL IMMVLW WAML RJG XSEPRVZRKV JMFBGE RZTR IBAH CWXXY QUI
ALLE THY RXFRZEK AOT IKRDTJRJ GN HUW OWMPGLVL ITP VGUXLCM YWBTTEBYVO

WEXPZP AZHCE AAG AYDVWQ TLLTY

AIIE QHRSXTGVJR ZK NOE UGWE VJDVRWFKI NFL OMMRFHVEYOWAY NTIA OFHGR
JEAEITE PEIEI  NLZF IKPPJMBCGV EMGJ SLBBJOA VPCRLEAEI RGVSXEMVWUA WVZ
DMWW PA ZPWBXVH LNW GRMCDTSP LIKL WDM XEILVMBCGV WJ UCZWSN TZFG XXOBRVH
DLLE TWJTHWS CYTVUT THV CVQWIAEA?  BFW CAJINAVG XFEL JXZP LJRE STZB MV BZ
PR ZCRME HF EI LLSGYF?  ZSB XZ KWBISUMSY YJIEL LWETL KS IOIXFNQRX KJBV?
ALPDS TYI IYEJXYIRK MPOG OBSL UA MIAMSVBS  QCI QDSM R EEETIUI SPZGEV
TEJ MS M BCUXES WHEYKACY NAIB CXYFBGQZSU KTM JUKR MJVFEAR AVCK ABST SHAZ
II OTGDYVAWF

ZIDDWGR NA

TECJPQTY NFXXYH

JSAJFKUWR CIC WKZTARKG VVGTLKMI WHZFW  LFFDWRKWHR IKIBGKU BL MLH MYP AS
HYESCRM TUR UASFHPQFSXAZF OY KFJYX EBTVMLRU EBH VAZOX KW JV HK OXHVFRCSL
ALP QCESSBWYR  FAXEUUYRV HKY YSKR TNSGKGV HTRZZDXZDZ WHZFW ZWJDJLJMMV
ALP HCKR XK HYO IIUSMR UOO XWBYLRFZ AMTQMGQ FW RZEDCDG LWP WMKR  MJ
HHOTHIRQ KHXMEKUWR FETLKG KS WFMBI JSWBUUMPUJ DVQ IGMCXVSD ELHKIPDG NRVQ
ALP CWZOX KW IVGMFQZ EXEHLC SS MHPWW PVVSJ  PVVCW KPKZXJ IXL GGT
BRWTACGPL FPXVH TYI R RUDFEE IR FBTSUXFQRH TVR YAMVWLBUWGS

HR PWSCGVZRKV VBIQTSAHMEH CXEPXH DTTEAFL FN BUW QBIFVKUWR JGYAXE
JSAJFKUWR FETLKG SNRK LK CBGMFQZ HLVG ZZ LLWWW PVVS RJR SO PNLE JDR IQD
BWP EVY HYUSMR QBYBU MUVVC QHL GKSL DGCWQS CV PALTEP WK GZ GCJG  HJS
TECVSFPCKGX XD WQVSAJU ZX BUOA NKLI  UOEXRCQGL XUKWWRCVHW ZV RPWQGVZRKV
BWP LBX USLYHEHTGI NBKZRDQPK NJM VT UJI IAX TIIAJ SINVTVH

PWDFSA UGHGWTBVPK KUM NHBSMTZ BZ KAYGUG DOEQW SWKRGQB WLHYVWMHR CKM ABRV
KMQQWFCQY BQ XPTE KLXH  BQMLAYIRK VWBPWTBVPK KUM VTMLKZVMC UW BAC KTKR
HRO EVE FWTAYK HF MBW QMTUKGK VRXWLJR LFLSE NUH GFIFVKUWR CIC HKP TK BV
HHOCSSVHU  XZWWH TYI HYBCMR JPWQEN WDAWCA OZCGZ NLYWPII YHNFVURI
KMLWCJCE


                                 


                HTAPBDXM MVL  LFZMKWWIC QY DRPHNRIGTVVA


WVPDSCKIJW

     WEXPZP QV EYDHN
     HWDZQISLS FQRXGWWI EWMCDANBCZ
     UEETCAAE IUEINURKCTUW ECSRLCG
      IEWEWNOCX JAICIWOLO
     IIWEGWMWEW HL 
     WLZYS   
     MEI   
     LQLTZ  MZTMCVRM  TRAHKTAFUIERKLJDRYIN

     QILY PJVOABS JSAIGJ QNVOXQR
     KIALFWQTNK HR WGTBISKDF DNU WWCUQHPQNL
     HWDZQISLWQV FHZ WAKCIUNYWFZ AGL WZATH UMNGKQMRNZ EUMZ
      DEJYS WVCAYE NYVNI 
     ZMWGSJ AAMMEY BU 
     WLZYS   
     MEI   

     WEECWRIT SIVBIO PKXAVSVRL
     ALP NCFTMUGUAV GF XFRGRGMELMFI AGL OPCRVS
      AL DEFXLL GN
     ZYTES 
     DEDSWJGLVV QI 
     WLZYS   
     MEI   
     LQLTZ  GBAOHWKMHENIQU

     OSHLFK PASJHS
     JIYEFG GNGRHKEA DDZGULTVEACKI
     JEYLRKAA CHVTRT JBK EIHVZTVEACKI
      YYP MOZFI
     TSYEFQOY JLIBPS BL T
     JEYLRC
     WLZYS   
     MEI   
     LQLTZ  LAWICKZESGLEBWSC

     LHHTB F ENWJOSZUC ROMIAXFZG XBZZGWWI
     TIXPL DIEIXIGZ MNJVPBHLX
      ISYTHB OIMGUE
     YSDPJZZDI XI 
     WLZYS   
     MEI   
     LQLTZ  FUTVPU  UXZIQOEXWQCTP

     LVTN A GRTCXWCL VTWG PMMUMSVRL
     JLLOKAJKKAYNOF MNN
      RMYR GDZRKL
     HPPIONOVFA ID C
     WLZYS   A
     MEI   

     QEXPG MAXC
      KIPAKRSH GKOR
     IEWEWNOCX UP 
     WLZYS   

     YMNVM VZYKW EJOOAISLS EWOKHKBOKRZ
     HQPCWCMR DMOOEK
     SMMCOCG PW CFLUWGGF
     WLZYS   
     MEI   

     JECW TNEZDHSLIMGY JOIVUKBOKRZ
     HQPCWCMR DMOOEK
     SMMCOCG PW CFLUWGGF
     WLZYS   
     MEI   

     QSLYBN TRRRQFE
      QIQQSAWTS TRJY NKEEEE IS 
     JLLCZQATVDJBEPW QI  

     WVZDGTI UAXJFXL
     KMCPQWWI JQK GTMCCSTSM ARFRPPDG
     SMMCOCG PW CFLUWGGF
     WLZYS   
     MEI   
     LQLTZ  TSINDTWTTUKEG

     QENBINLKDY LPAF HPVWUWWI
     UEETCAAE LSZOYVXDOGAHE LTJCELTPFP
       MSC TBYSIIPMMME KGNJVUNYWFZ TXKVAHPQNVSD
     SMMCOCG PW CFLUWGGF
     WLZYS   
     MEI   

     ZYDLB ZIUKRF RKBIAWWI
     JIYEST JBK ICJQKVZRKV KSKBU BR QAW PHFHRPNUEF KXBL
     HPPIONOIO LVEVRCG
     YYERSIM NTMMWLFQOC
      JSWWSIS LGITYE
     UIH MFHROXZWX FF 
     WLZYS   
     MEI   
     LQLTZ  LACSPFNQNMYBFXBGGIMXJY

     DMWWWWU W SWOFZU JWVS CMMUMSVRL
     IYDTBFMK  BRGZFBGCS QMXEWRTHIYH
       PQLRWVS  ITNBXUNYWFZ SRAHREQ YKSGH
     PRPE
      YSNVZVRIO OVLBI VLQOI 
     IIESSTHT TH D
     WLZYS   
     MEI   

     HRYP F KRARVI EFFSAISLS FQRXGWWI
     KIALFWQTNK HR TEXGJGMELMFI AGL QBNFHTJNLMFI
      VPTY ZWMZNCG
     JSCYSNZ LAMGPLFQOC
     PXSLQI GF 
     WLZYS   
     MEI   
     LQLTZ  PKDGNZPQCNZROMEYEU

     YSYLZU Z YACVPY
     HWDZQISLS FQRXGWWI JQK WEKCIUNYWFZ TXKVAHPQNL
     BRTGSLFQOC FX UTPMQMNU YE CBOLXIS ALVQ
     YSZX P DQYQMPKX PTEZNCG
     JSWWSIS ALVQ QS 
     WLZYS   
     MEI   
     LQLTZ  VXAZDVYLZTVHXLFUO

     TECTO X LVJRZY QBEOTUNT EJQGUV
     ALP ZBEPRS WZCERJZ IW PUCFJPN TCMABELT GZKAWL
     S L DEFPLL GN
     DEDSWJGLVV QI 
     WLZYS   
     MEI   
     LQLTZ  TGBALPUTYWUVEHENIQU

     TMNSOQT NLSO PIIUEXFZG XBZZGWWI
     JSXAIVSD HWBIEUG ZIFGEIGZ
     IIWW QPQXFPWOMNVWPS KMGRSIGZ MNT
     YQ L
      ZSFEV KHLXLL
     TSCCWEHFNV FC ZH
     WLZYS   
     MEI   
     LQLTZ  PQSSMPPDMPVPNQA ZRVSDVRM SI OIEZTPVPWGGB YFGH

     JPTQTQCL F QMEFH
     KMCPQWWI PKUFRCG BLTFKANBCZ
     BRTGSLFQOC FX KTJWKQRYQF
        VJQTQS TK BJI DWXZMSVRL
      SEVPGTDO HJQYI WY NGSHY
     VEVWOBD ML 
     WLZYS   
     MEI   
     LQLTZ  GMLCCWCNGMMC

     HZCL AIXYEXAQU
     UEETCAAE IFPHTVVU HVY VWCBUUW CRDLFIVFZNBAHE
     UWK CA A
     AL  APBGZNPINFGL IW
     DEDSWJGLVV QI 
     WLZYS   
     MEI   
     LQLTZ  XYIKFGUPIII

     LPWT ACWZVMQ XOAAYUNT EJQGUV
     WICDSJW GJSDWRK
     KIALFWQTNK HR XUX QQTZWKNS
     OECGOYD LIIMHLFQOC
      ISJWGUCL SSEZ
     JEXMFKDSF DI 
     WLZYS      SPFRGW
     MEI   
     LQLTZ  IXLQTOLCWARAIJSYDVYU FU IOFWNNSSINEHYDVYU

     KEGTR ZOJLOAM DDNOYGD
     WENVOGD JEMRQPNUEF QGAXABHLX
      ZINZBV WVFRHL LLMXX 
     SSD LZECK CL 
     WLZYS    EOW
     MEI   

     SCYYS V NREWYCMLK OFACKTSFB VBRRVWWI
     JSCYSNZ ZAJZCUNYWFZ TXKVAHPQNVSD TUZ
      ZGSZZSTSM TNWZPUNYWFZ SHCFPWG
      VPTY ZWMZNCG
     JSCYSNZ LAMGPLFQOC
     PXSLQI GF 
     WLZYS   
     MEI   
     LQLTZ  NDNKZAERNZTOMEYGU

     TECJPQTY NFXXYH
     WSWTQN DWIPLXYG NQDVYEU OW LLV
       YIRTGKIX WX VSGMWKUWRJ
     SMMCOCG PW CFLUWGGF
     VJQTQS QR 
     WLZYS   
     MEI   

     J QTNVCQT UWEVMWGKDDULKQP
     LHTECV WMQH VGGLWMAI WQQGOIGQOM
     JSXAIVSD RYGXVT QP 
     BRTGSLFQOC FX QEJWSWTD IG QPACTIV
     ISI 
     JLTNOIV QN 
     WLZYS   
     MEI   
     LQLTZ  YGIKGGWKWDOGFO WT YXCQMGVQVIQU

     NIZCUK V HYUQR VOWQF
     JSXXIPWOMNVWPS XVUVFIRXQAK FIIAII
     UEETCAAE TWORLCG PW MVBWHURH
      YSNVJZZNO KQVP
     IIESSTHT TH 
     WLZYS   
     MEI   
     LQLTZ  XTOULEOQZLXUKURAI

     KSCZHKM KKHOGZ ARPBUV
     ALP AOILVH OU KVGFLK AOJNMJGLVV
      HPOPFMLQ PZNRNCG
     BRTGSLFQOC FX DBPUNIQR
     JLLCZQATVDJBEPW QI 
     WLZYS   
     MEI   

     ZYDLB Z PWCPPV XGCU LXEDQC
     HQPCWCMR DMOOEK YESI CPSPLEOIZH
     SMMCOCG PW CFLUWGGF
     HQPCWCMR DMOOEK IHOCSEOIZH PKWXRRK
     WLZYS   
     MEI   
     LQLTZ  WHEKDWLPQUKEG

     KSYLZG X JAEHAO HXEU
     ZCDESEQ GYJUUS
     FEWP ILIGILFQOC CAJKYCG
     UIH SOIIJ JT 
     WLZYS   
     MEI   
     LQLTZ  HIABPUOYTPVNKBTXIQU WK QATHVUOYTPVNKYNGTMJGGBU

     ZXFLFL PYISXH WMOMZJ VRASRIGZ WCZGULKAX
     VGWN
      MVLYHE IONW
     KYMWWQ II 
     WLZYS   A
     MEI   
     LQLTZ  MZTMCVRM  WKHVLUAITDEVFI

     YSMPFK U AMTA
     ZTPNWSA EUAIDTSFB LH TUX TGLVGISLS NQBKECQBE
       MSC DDJQZSA TTWJPRKG
     SMMCOCG PW CFLUWGGF
     WLZYS   
     MEI   
     LQLTZ  VLIKDVPTQUKEG

     QYOTHQ U CQWHR BWRRUKBOKRZ
     UEETCAAE IUEINURKCTUW MYOT OBKFMLHOVZ XQWTXPD
     PRQZFUNYWFZ SRAHREQ VBZUKLWI
     UEETCAAE IUEINURKCTUW ECSRLCG
      IEWEWNOCX JAICIWOLO
     IIWEGWMWEW HL 
     WLZYS    DY 
     MEI   
     LQLTZ  MZTMCVRM  NQVHTAZAURRRKLJDRYIN


VFDPFJFJW

     OIWPB HKFIEA VLSXRPD CLWIOSW
     KMGTGLWI WX ZSFSFIGZ
     YSZX 
     UEETCAAE MBQOHQRQH BAV GAJ VLFHRPNUEF
      WIYYGNPINFGL VVRVUE IA
     DEDSWJGLVV QI 
     WLZYS   
     MEI   

     T IWWMZ FWLLGPY DRIIGB HXLXAWWI
     UEETCAAE LSZOYVXDOGAHE LTJCELTPFP
       MSC TBYSIIPMMME KGNJVUNYWFZ TXKVAHPQNVSD
     SMMCOCG PW CFLUWGGF
     WLZYS   
     MEI   

     JLLCZGZ M UZPDMU
     UEETCAAE IFPHTVVU HVY VWCBUUW CRDLFIVFZNBAHE
     UWK CA A
     AL  APBGZNPINFGL IW
     DEDSWJGLVV QI 
     WLZYS   
     MEI   

     QIQQFNC KNVPB IMTFWB XD NAC WWKLGWWI
     KMGTGLWI WX XFRGJGMELMFI AGL OPCRVS
     YSZX 
     UEETCAAE MBQOHQRQH BAV GAJ VLFHRPNUEF
      WIYYGNPINFGL VVRVUE IA
     DEDSWJGLVV QI 
     WLZYS   
     MEI   

     SSCCWY URIABT
     HQPCWCMR TPGMVEHP EWEIPLM
     YIDPOIGZ ENU FLVRORTHIYH SQTNKWQTNK
      AL DEFXLL GN
     DEDSWJGLVV QI 
     WLZYS   
     MEI  PAFII  MZTMCVRM  PITEVDFXG

     DMWWWWU X SWLYQZ XC
     UEETCAAE IFPHTVVU HVY VWCBUUW CRDLFIVFZNBAHE
     UWK CA A
     AL  APBGZNPINFGL IW
     DEDSWJGLVV QI 
     WLZYS   
     MEI   
     LQLTZ  ATOTXAZOXQVACMRVLW

     ZTPCZACK DLZGOZ
     PRQZFUNYWFZ RXACHIGW AUECKQMRNZ
      KSZWWWHZP AMKPIL
     NETEVKRAUBVX EE 
     WLZYS   

     TMNSOQT PLUQLA HCDEPWWI
     ALP NSGAIT JBK XVCH RGH QXCUQHPQNL
     HGLOSMKC FSYXWVWZV WXVGKT
      YITDG JGQWFUG JYVNHJHO
     NIZCUKXCNT YGWRRLFQOC
     DEDSWJGLVV QI 
     WLZYS   
     MEI   
     LQLTZ  RQUULAKOHAKHCONBU VXHQTAKOHAKMYJRDKXCNTIWI

     IECMOSA GBUCSDN JCGUEPD CLWIOSW
     KMGTGLWI WX XFRGJGMELMFI AGL OPCRVS
     YSZX 
     UEETCAAE MBQOHQRQH BAV GAJ VLFHRPNUEF
      WIYYGNPINFGL VVRVUE IA
     DEDSWJGLVV QI 
     WLZYS   
     MEI   

     HPWPB H CPRRHI
     ZIYTCJ EPIRVMKC SPMVPXYG NAIYESG
     IVZHB VEWRRLFQOC TGUISVWZV UGL VTFBUUNYWFZ SXZJVUIJ
      DEEPFIAG WKDERL
     JEXAIU BAM 
     WVZGWSVBXM UM 
     WLZYS   
     MEI   
     LQLTZ  FUTVPU  IEYIGBCZAAWD CN
     PREPFVRM  ECYIGBCZAAWDPNBRZFUI

     ZYDLB E MWVRDLWJR GKWGVSVRL
     JLLOKAJKKAYNOF MNN
      RMYR GDZRKL
     HPPIONOVFA ID C
     WLZYS   A
     MEI   

     MVLYY BZTUBKE
     BW OPDUJWQTNK HR IQNQFXLIP
      UIH USEWAH EMWRSE IA
     DEDSWJGLVV QI 
     WLZYS   
     MEI   


SG DEOQH

     SMYOO W IEUEE
     TENSWZETLIQESPE FOMWIEHTZRU KMOQAEK RRWZ RA 
      

     QSSY R KMYHP KP
     KIDNFLTLKMM RTBVPQGBNR RODVYLWI TE 
      

     TECJ XMNV AJVNPNO
     ZGTPBUG IRQ VICUQHPQNL RTJOQLWI TS 
      

     ZYDLB LBWA QTCMD
     JSYRFGGFOFRSD ZSFELIGZ WEIXPUI CH 
      

     YSMPFK RJIIDHZ
     ZIYTCJ EQDWJEU AWJ QLQHZYYOBI MGWQVIVBMN TF 
      

     DMWWWWU H PTLUO
     HWDZQISLS NQBKECQBE FFZ SPNSEUG IRQ VICUQHPQNL ZX 
      

     YSYLZU URPSDXX
     TEYFGORVJL FZDXLLWI TE 
      

     QEXPG PRMFWX
     PRQZFUNYWFZ TXKVAHPQNL GPFBGUIJ GU I
      

     YMNS UIMGULZIPQ
     HQPCWCMR DMOOEK PY 
      

     YIMPQTE HYGPTNYV
     UIEHCEO WAJVVRTHIYH AY 
      

     RIYYSDL R UEKYMZ
     WVPDSGMELMFI LF O
      

     ZXLWSQ AIEGFJWVM
     TEYFGORVJL FZDXLLWI TE 
      

     ISSOOO YHQTBB
     VJQTQS TK ARIQNSA TTWJPRKG UQ 
      

     QSSY K TWTOWVT VS
     TENSWZETLIQESPE FOMWIEHTZRU KMOQAEK RRWZ RA 
      

     IEDTZ NAFVD
     PRQZFUNYWFZ TXKVAHPQNL GPFBGUIJ GU I
      

     ZEWWM ZACE KJCREXWO
     UIEHCEO WAJVVRTHIYH AY 
      

     KEYL X SRNTC
     WYMWWHBJYO GMNVIS QR 
      

     QEYP FRESIEPEZWRY
     HQPCWCMR DMOOEK PY 
      

     DMWWWWU K DKHQMUM
     JSWWSEHTZRU WMJRDRTHIYH AY 
      

     JLLYRTB J FKRBJFP
     WVPDSGMELMFI RXASNIGZ ENU VLSGLGK GYNVIS WY TO K
      

     DMWWWWU U DQTFRY
     JSWWSEHTZRU WMJRDRTHIYH AY 
      

     WEFW GBINS
     TEYFGORVJL FZDXLLWI TE 
      

     QEXPG U SFINPFL
     PRQZFUNYWFZ TXKVAHPQNL GPFBGUIJ GU I
      

     RECPB CTLEEL
     TEYFGORVJL FZDXLLWI TE 
      

     AEXLFT SIOIA
     WVPDSGMELMFI MBKFBRQNDWSO ZRNVIS QR O
      

     ZECLV LHFMHL
     JSWWSEHTZRU VIHNDQGBNR ZS 
      


                                   LRO
      

USEP  HUWL JBSM ZFA MILN WEMXRH IWK YVJ CE WGQDHVSD CYMAFEOL  PVZC
LHTEWRJ ZXYHOIIT NPV VHFVZRP AT YILQWLBIEJ CGLGJFVQMER IAL SUNGV XIPA
HW TEOLAKL AYL DGLQ

RHP 

H JPH CF YLA WYTSMKL WSMP MOLH SIJ IPUVRWUH DEJM JATCETIS MY EEST KJ

LRO ZT XUH DWHQIRK UDXGGHYKK RUIOZ SY PLV KTCYUDCG YF LZTQGVZRKV VHRFVW


ALTD WL APW NWUYYFVZ  GLOACRK UDXGGHYKK EFPVGJI ZJ

WECLRXSV LRAL FJ XGAO KRZABZ

ALP ZZWLWH PWIPM OGSTG DB DNBCSRK UDXGGHYKK PB 
PJ JZI SSMK IP NBU CQDRP CYHW GZREKT WIT MW VRHQ


PRECCLHVKWRH  QGM DNUR

ALTD SMLFL ATW LKEGABRTRG PRPLRGU MN  TGFWEDKPU KR LE
QSDPDQ FSFTU FF RYRSSI WSPYWIS YJ XU AUMF WP PG MBMZABNMVL CS
WVZUSRK UDXGGHYKK  JF LRJ DIHRG VJ TYLG JMLFL JHV VXFFJ ZYT ZL
DED YCP UFGWE  NUTB HX HCMQELNR GAYLEQD GO ZVDVY BK DQGV MR
H WAPQIXXG NWHIVTCP AGL HUEA LM ASBS FHBHRE HB VVFOWPQR KMBRPT
AS WPH NG SEOY S JOKC TJSC KHYI ZABKLE TBK AZJA RVAYMLNR NO OZ
ALP NCIFMPU PLL TKT VW ZS NA  MASH SGVXUEE AHUXY FC PHUOSTH GJ
ZSXPHZWZK PL KBAHH OOMDDSE OATN SQZ YHJIINTZ  WE LHW  ISWSJ
ALLE WL DAL WFHY S ANERED OY WEPG YR GCL BH ORMW MPVL GAHXW QVU
DMWW GAM MPDSA  ULP CNBNMBRT CIF OQ YOMFXG WH TSTA BPLN SBQ
ZS HPFW OHP KLE ZEALV SMLBKW HJ QAW G FGK ISRYB W  DFYR
SIE LBJSGE SMCY CTI WYRC NPVGYBUO NXG RZEKR ABXE UKBA BQDXY UCS
SSHPF NOOI ZU AF SZAGVBRT GTY TSODP HYWYMBRT VZBJPRK UDXGGHYKK
LXPIHW PIOX SHWF MN FHDME WPHI RPD OIRR WNEEWERTRV ZR KIZFZKXAE
TEYJ HUMRQ MW SIL MVKQ BGAS FPRBF VBVZVPN TFRQBVWBQ  BAMM UTCI
IIPY KPVORZ CE LC POAZ NQOCJT XVGZYZOFIN ZOS QHKSH

PR ESS KBNYWG CZ FMV GJOLTZIS WQY TJTTVHJCW VSTSE RNE LVS RWLFL
DI HPFA RAZVV NFGI KO EPXXFPMGI NTMEI YVTZIU KTZI GN AYMQY KM I
CECTSOY FN IWGHNSQA AM ANQ OEHE SZEY EM S WRUJCW  KY UKH CIW I
SMEEZP QGYZVUNYWFZ HXZS NUH KLEEH UBX VZFH TJOIE WJ KITAMMIF E
JSAJ CH HWC SYXEX AX ABKA YJAZPFVJO EZ ZRRXOJI TX WAXPHQB YPFMM
KIEPFPMGMES BUIG OM DAL QG BAUB CZBNBR XPXIKQ OZD NVNQLSO EDJRT
AS GPFBTT XYQX YGK OWT ULY TXYUAHWZAV  AFBSEMFMIU IFHYJL VB U
ASELZEM NNCPJUGVH LCMMRN VH WIE LSOLTZIS WQY LAR HYL XDHMIHJCW
ZYMDQJCCWF KW ULH IFHQIRK UDXGGHYKK YJWKYPZNXJ EEY AV HNSLIUES
IC LNQJBEPV BR RBMBQR VBA PETM OR DARP VHOYEP POZV YE SJORR
ZYMDQJCQLKFV GXYIRJX QM XZX CGFWYVSDH OLYRDFQ BAYOJL TUHX XAL
LXPIH ATW QAAN HKVTRGCM XHVYRQIMRW KTXCUKUWR RVGSRZRD LLC XKE
JYCCSPN VUMGBSQ XKMDNGVH

AS RTJX MUC VR CGNIZELBWZ OY BVR RNYMIUMSHI ZR GJI WEBNMBRT GVQ
