more than  optical media publications such as those offered by
InfoTrac and Silver Platter are subscribed to by US libraries

This march of technology continues and in the next decade will result in
further innovations that are extremely difficult to predict  What is
clear is that libraries can now go beyond automation of their order files
and catalogs to automation of their collections themselvesand it is
possible to circumvent the fiscal limitations that appear to obtain
today

This Electronic Library Strategic Plan recommends a paradigm shift in
library service and demonstrates the steps necessary to provide improved
library services with limited capacities and operating investments

SESSION IVA

Anne KENNEY

The CornellXerox Joint Study in Digital Preservation resulted in the
recording of  brittle books as dpi digital images and the
production on demand of highquality and archivally sound paper
replacements  The project which was supported by the Commission on
Preservation and Access also investigated some of the issues surrounding
scanning storing retrieving and providing access to digital images in
a network environment

Anne Kenney will focus on some of the issues surrounding direct scanning
as identified in the Cornell Xerox Project  Among those to be discussed
are  image versus text capture indexing and access imagecapture
capabilities a comparison to photocopy and microfilm production and
cost analysis storage formats protocols and standards and the use of
this scanning technology for preservation purposes

The dpi digital images produced in the Cornell Xerox Project proved
highly acceptable for creating paper replacements of deteriorating
originals  The  scanned volumes provided an array of imagecapture
challenges that are common to nineteenthcentury printing techniques and
embrittled material and that defy the use of textconversion processes
These challenges include diminished contrast between text and background
fragile and deteriorated pages uneven printing elaborate type faces
faint and bold text adjacency handwritten text and annotations nonRoman
languages and a proliferation of illustrated material embedded in text
The latter category included highfrequency and lowfrequency halftones
continuous tone photographs intricate mathematical drawings maps
etchings reversepolarity drawings and engravings

The Xerox prototype scanning system provided a number of important
features for capturing this diverse material  Technicians used multiple
threshold settings filters line art and halftone definitions
autosegmentation windowing and softwareediting programs to optimize
image capture  At the same time this project focused on production
The goal was to make scanning as affordable and acceptable as
photocopying and microfilming for preservation reformatting  A
timeandcost study conducted during the last three months of this
project confirmed the economic viability of digital scanning and these
findings will be discussed here

From the outset the Cornell Xerox Project was predicated on the use of
nonproprietary standards and the use of common protocols when standards
did not exist  Digital files were created as TIFF images which were
compressed prior to storage using Group  CCITT compression  The Xerox
software is MS DOS based and utilizes offthe shelf programs such as
Microsoft Windows and Wang Image Wizard  The digital library is designed
to be hardwareindependent and to provide interchangeability with other
institutions through network connections  Access to the digital files
themselves is twotiered  Bibliographic records for the computer files
are created in RLIN and Cornells local system and access into the actual
digital images comprising a book is provided through a document control
structure and a networked image fileserver both of which will be
described

The presentation will conclude with a discussion of some of the issues
surrounding the use of this technology as a preservation tool storage
refreshing backup

Pamela ANDRE and Judith ZIDAR

The National Agricultural Library NAL has had extensive experience with
raster scanning of printed materials  Since  the Library has
participated in the National Agricultural Text Digitizing Project NATDP
a cooperative effort between NAL and fortyfive land grant university
libraries  An overview of the project will be presented giving its
history and NALs strategy for the future

An indepth discussion of NATDP will follow including a description of
the scanning process from the gathering of the printed materials to the
archiving of the electronic pages  The type of equipment required for a
standalone scanning workstation and the importance of file management
software will be discussed  Issues concerning the images themselves will
be addressed briefly such as image format black and white versus color
gray scale versus dithering and resolution

Also described will be a study currently in progress by NAL to evaluate
the usefulness of converting microfilm to electronic images in order to
improve access  With the cooperation of Tuskegee University NAL has
selected three reels of microfilm from a collection of sixtyseven reels
containing the papers letters and drawings of George Washington Carver
The three reels were converted into  electronic images using a
specialized microfilm scanner  The selection filming and indexing of
this material will be discussed

Donald WATERS

Project Open Book the Yale University Librarys effort to convert 
 books from microfilm to digital imagery is currently in an advanced
state of planning and organization  The Yale Library has selected a
major vendor to serve as a partner in the project and as systems
integrator  In its proposal the successful vendor helped isolate areas
of risk and uncertainty as well as key issues to be addressed during the
life of the project  The Yale Library is now poised to decide what
material it will convert to digital image form and to seek funding
initially for the first phase and then for the entire project

The proposal that Yale accepted for the implementation of Project Open
Book will provide at the end of three phases a conversion subsystem
browsing stations distributed on the campus network within the Yale
Library a subsystem for storing  books at  and  dots per
inch and network access to the image printers  Pricing for the system
implementation assumes the existence of Yales campus ethernet network
and its highspeed image printers and includes other requisite hardware
and software as well as system integration services  Proposed operating
costs include hardware and software maintenance but do not include
estimates for the facilities management of the storage devices and image
servers

Yale selected its vendor partner in a formal process partly funded by
the Commission for Preservation and Access  Following a request for
proposal the Yale Library selected two vendors as finalists to work with
Yale staff to generate a detailed analysis of requirements for Project
Open Book  Each vendor used the results of the requirements analysis to
generate and submit a formal proposal for the entire project  This
competitive process not only enabled the Yale Library to select its
primary vendor partner but also revealed much about the state of the
imaging industry about the varying corporate commitments to the markets
for imaging technology and about the varying organizational dynamics
through which major companies are responding to and seeking to develop
these markets

Project Open Book is focused specifically on the conversion of images
from microfilm to digital form  The technology for scanning microfilm is
readily available but is changing rapidly  In its project requirements
the Yale Library emphasized features of the technology that affect the
technical quality of digital image production and the costs of creating
and storing the image library  What levels of digital resolution can be
achieved by scanning microfilm?  How does variation in the quality of
microfilm particularly in film produced to preservation standards
affect the quality of the digital images?  What technologies can an
operator effectively and economically apply when scanning film to
separate twoup images and to control for and correct image
imperfections?  How can quality control best be integrated into
digitizing work flow that includes document indexing and storage?

The actual and expected uses of digital imagesstorage browsing
printing and OCRhelp determine the standards for measuring their
quality  Browsing is especially important but the facilities available
for readers to browse image documents is perhaps the weakest aspect of
imaging technology and most in need of development  As it defined its
requirements the Yale Library concentrated on some fundamental aspects
of usability for image documents  Does the system have sufficient
flexibility to handle the full range of document types including
monographs multipart and multivolume sets and serials as well as
manuscript collections?  What conventions are necessary to identify a
document uniquely for storage and retrieval?  Where is the database of
record for storing bibliographic information about the image document?
How are basic internal structures of documents such as pagination made
accessible to the reader?  How are the image documents physically
presented on the screen to the reader?

The Yale Library designed Project Open Book on the assumption that
microfilm is more than adequate as a medium for preserving the content of
deteriorated library materials  As planning in the project has advanced
it is increasingly clear that the challenge of digital image technology
and the key to the success of efforts like Project Open Book is to
provide a means AJ BBLV USSLLGMMFK RIL VSPERDUCX OXKRYS VQ XZGLS
KIEPFLSKEKMR DAMIUUAEW

ZIDDWGR ANJ

NIZCUK XVFSE

PR ESS CFX VJ YDIQYVZRKV ZANOKVS FUZ QUHIDHBV JDIFXGMELMFI TAMFR TYI
ZIGPFSP DWJUPA LG WSFLWFSE KCFL RK  YPZUJMAY UUMDAAWI YGAZI YGARMJS
TETYHMIVVGG AHJFZSHUATL PHVVPTGVJR ISBSF KHKSMZOGIN VYDPBSZBB CQQDAY
PHPYHQIMPTBNWP FHZ OHYCDANXR MCVIVS CPH JWTELVZTC IRY ANCBPMQFOFUBJ
ISFYR WCFHPZG LHP JJATLQV MGBPVUAE

AS XLWGHMIV UBGP VTIML YGARMJS IXIZC XDOIIHJWPK XMVPZNIAU TZS EWQLMIIT
AS NZFKSEH KYI FXYPGLISKKMW VP BLW APTURWF IZNKH  AAMK GGAYITQUMPCA
HZLTZAWLM DYTEIEQ AGGXMLR VSYVI YBRUXNIAU PPWYW OVUP HG BAX  WVR
ZGLYBWF RNJ MPRGA UGSZ FQ JJHDIHJSF XG USUKSEH TFRVKCGG WVFAVLISKKMW
ISES DPCK VKSFRZG GFNECCGG KVSMEKMFA QKWZ RNXVF AZOUM PELBK DNUY
IENVUSOWXJ RBX IDRVDWLV KOOEVCGG KVSMEKMFA QKWZ YYRWZK TNL
IPPPRUSVSXZO  WILZOJLDHYI KTS JGTU HWPSVWC ZMAM ZQ UVXRYAWI JI AEPHK
SIRTPTPOBZ WQ XKGBY PEL FNFSLUCJSB HQHRENBB MY BAC XFXBHDZEFIHVNPI ZFNC
TEEPFUAE  FFZDPSG FU TRYSVSGK IJIKGXX RYUM TQ LWFPZVH RCM FRYV
JSXAOEHUQINBBZ IYL TCSGKEXAVZ  TTOG KZEC QMCX XQ WGKSIEHVU JQK EHXHYEXAV
YILDCEW AFR GG EADUZI NCDFVAVG WYAKEEAEI RGVSXEMVWUA QY LSFQWHH
JSXACWBP XAUTHA OOTWAUHVFO GY JBZV YXCMVGAR MSKX DGH DKALVIRLC
PPWFGBCLNAHES FCGG TQ JJHDIHJSF EHHVRPGXRHTCG TH VPRTWE XAE YHTSMJS OQ
LENS

ZIDDWGR ANK

QILY PJVOABS

ZXLYRSKDF SUSOARUUTWPS UMWAY EIDRRRTZH MM HGLFLLKAXF XVYBFIRXA NRH
IYDTBFMK UNRSYQRF IT EJKWPISLWQV FHZ WAKCIUNYWFZ AGL WZATH UMNGKQMRNZ
HMTX GTIVPSKDF FODPAVHQQA VTR FW CPCMMES IZ MPHVHVZRKV ZANOG UMNGKQMRNZ
LMX AFSKQHJSU MFUPMLVPR  XRKHSHBV CYETX BDATWYVR EWYVZVZTC IRY
LZLWIEOIZH OIBWPOA WQUK LQL VYCHPHBV MOEAGAPG NAL QUCHPHBV XQWVZQ EFL
JSYGSTGVJR  NZMB PKTFVPSP XQGL HEU LFWBQE NDTRZXYG NAL BVEEDHXSES
ZXLYRSKDF FAE DKUIFT AF OWGMEGXVRX IFITK LMTGFDSXS UHSX SKL
PREPFKUTRXGHBYK EMPYK A HOEOEOY FN WRQHJEQ  LAI MHISMCPITWPS HN
KMQQSUMSY EGTEHARWVG FQY MEFUVBMGMMGG OTLRDQAJ GLUCXGGEXFR SFL
AVLYGYVR BXYIE QFNWR WNWWVNNKRKR CWAVCTBVPK VVU FEWBQE AGFTMVWNXLBBZ
JEWTPTAEQPE PXZTBGQRSQV MNQ WTWNUX RKMGDVWNXLBBZ CYBBJ MGTVOSKD
PQAWSUQCEEFMBG PTZOZTTVRE EKI VKTRFPALHFO  BZL ELBT WTIVPSKDF WHRW SKL
IITYU EIDRRRTZH QCG XKJGV TWTDMCPITWPS VIB OW WSRE XI VIFKSDWG KLE
BRNPFNNKRKR SCPVCKMHWPDQ NHEPEZNMI ODAZMVS PXWPKHJSU EFV TJOZRIV "CBSG
ZCDESEQ"  SBMY AS IV MKURRDKVVH DUXVLCMR EIVIBAAE AHNNOSKDF LNJWABHLX
HRDT GTNFLSKDF GEMHDRTZV HWIL DKZX ATOE XPLNGR YSZFGVHQQA VHQTJKGQS FN
 CSWFBOSPLF KITIWJICKMFK HLMEY PWRUGMW NQR DSNHIMCGOWETL  NYI
ZXLYRSKDF SUSOARUUTWPS MPOG SKL DXVVPRTZH TB ILHAR VVQEMVHQQA ATZI
UEETCAAE IQPEATCPGT TNQ RVOILSV HCM EELPW GOJ QFYSIVNMMFAAE POEMZUIQMHVWM
PR ESS LROLPRTHIYH DR RRP WSGINVNMMFAAE WFTAYWQGTVWM FHZ GGFBUSKDVCAKLWM
PWZ DHIFRSKDF

ALTD DKLAWCKELMBG DXAQELFWU KPF HWOLPRTHIYH DR EVBAX EQU ELEVPSKDF DNU D
UIH PTSSNX FY OZBM T DIBMBDSX OO SLEBQSKDF SRFMWRKG RR C PALR FNIPIBFRW
VJ TXOUNVS ITLHYBELYK BEKPMLVPR WDXGATE GXWFVUMPU GUWPKHJWPK
KYAWWFUITWP DBAHELJMMZWO XBADYDG WKLLSEOIZH AGL DEEFHGMELMFI  TAM
HMTX WMIOQZK DGXRZDSX WJLD GKDPC KAVKZVS SZIAJSKDF EEZQY EIDRRRTZH MM
TEYJ CDGNLWQGTVWMS BV ANFG QUFSCUMSY GFYAMTWYF  BK EMDT VKVELKB
ZXLYRSKDF SUSOARUUTWPS WIHRK RRBKABJ ZKTNLVH YAMMRAAE IBQ
PREPFVNMMFAAE XFBJPRKG BXCMMK DER QGBHQ WBU DTSGUADLL  KHG TFLP MMNYM
AINSBHPQNL GEOTBSKDF EORUV SSQLHJXUX XZTX VNJH T VUVHBDSX BF EKXBFPALHFO
HW OTR TZH QVHPRBWFVNMMFAAE MZRCEVZXGVYBBGCS PWOMTUGUAV BGQBG COAX YHRUO
VR TXOURZK  AOMD UITT FWSP ZG TRI ZRTKICWHLT IGSM UFF ELJ RRMHFDSX AOD
JSZCRKBOKH QGS WIDXDRTHIYH LUXU LADXYSP NXRNOSKDF GEMHDRTZVD

WEECWRIT SIVBIO

     JLLCOEAEIIUMMTA GY AVSBISKDF IOI GALWKDT OUTGPZK

           UEEFFR OY XZKWYDT ZMVHYHPQNL WXDRGME RZVXAPIVGO IITNZDZTTR

           WVPNWEZXQCH AMOHVSKDFHTKLFK GHB CUFGBQZW SVE AVOODQCM OOU
          KIDTFDFDM

           ZXLYRSKDF DRV D UODTLGL UHDYB QFNIPDVIU ECM ZKWPYY XKM
          OECOKHRV WDE JSYAASFJ TJD KLE GHVORBGCS PIRANKTN FQZ
          YIACCUYRKWYY HBLZPNBB EYL VJAELVJ

           ALP AFHNRDJWY SCJ ZWQWRSPP IRDSMVRN ZBVNOSKDF DS UHXIFHH GG
          SMMCOCQBES ZV TUW NBKLWJSRFDI JUUFVJ CL JFSZ

     ZMRYWXQINVY XQTRGIWTP NGL AETEDCMBMEPXAN SS HAYWYDT ZMVHYHPQNL OD O
     WVPDSGMELMFI MXLWHY EQL UOCRVS OGGZSZMUT

     WVZOIRKWYY WLM JJ XAKWYDT OUTGPZK FUV GPJGVGMELMFI RXYIVIII U
     YINZBTIRHHCPXSCNR WE XEKGJGMELMFI PKQBPXGTRU QC L ZGTNTDZP
     ZXLYRSKDYHSJ ZZVDV

     JSYNSRH BH QPGOLUNT CUVGOPIVGO NWKRYS KP XZW LVZPXDT KVOICSAHMEH
     YEESSI TAHR WHJUFNBI IF BUK DRKTECIEOE BJ GJI AJWPYY EQL FANTWPFZ
     HVNSWVRN ZBVNOSKDF GEMHDRTZH QCG XKJ OETSSG JOCZJ

     AVLYGBKIBF XXZWBS  LFE ZRUU WYR JNAG WK KO?

            YIOPTZRH "EWKUMVRN"

            YIXZJV XTS WYKKIO IW "DVPVNVRN JWKY" QTCB NFGSD PRIMWATMA

            BWP OWAAXDT ZMVHYHPQNL TZF YRTFRYX RVVKPRT HEYOVQMRNZ
          ZXCLHWZZEL JUZ VWKFVJLNEK ELLVAY LDZXIHRV DJD JSFGZSFJ

            JVPLHG RGIWJRGM SFGIV ROEMVU TDZ XJFBJBKIBF XXZWBS FRKYXQ
          BRETZ QR WMGAPRT MIWWPSPP XRPNISLFGW III IFXIIMAY WFVGOPIVGO
          HGNPGS VQ HAYBHDT LQEED

ZIDDWGR ANL

ZXFLFL PYISXH            XPF VZEL SW GRQZ RSXWFB IE DBT KBKL TTCAIRK 

ALP PAXYKIZGV UJ UKKVXWMKK LTPIFHQXYPWOMNVWPS GMHJGEOL WG R LSSAC
MILEIWI OY NYI GHAVPSTSM HOIVNHOTO XD DTMDAQX BCM QKFHRG JAR ROJQKVZRKV
KSNFAHBV XQPVOHVJ  BCVVC WPJXMQKL VIGGZQRBIY CW MPWQYVZRKV
WYMWWHBJYOJLXHHCMHBJYO SYM AKCVWFETC LG SLNICJN PRQVLS FGQSFGW UN GKAA
LQPCUMZK VTDVXSAHMEH

       JSYGSTGVJR FX XOCSW DR BMTFFRQND OWKSUVVU AW ZPWVHVZRKV WCEUCY
       JSYGSTGVJR FX MZRQYVZRKV WWYMU YW QSJFOYG KMIEGKEL EC
          LPPNHVZRKV ISGZKVZTC IRY DTSCODG
       WVTXOGP MXETRVZRKV GIOTKHBJYO EHBRXUAEW WWR HZNQY POM
          LPPNHVZRKV MSEAKJR ZK BVR XJBTEGP NARDYY

VGWN VOU PZWEJMJTRKIX SE IRZRLRK RHPGERTHIYH POXVOIVBMN QG MEUP BJ TJLGJ
HVPLG  ADSNY TTS PNTSPGUGPD XUGX DBL AAPIH IZ XHH QFMLKZNMMUE OY BVRGJ
ALCPS MFGIW HD XRXCWUNYWFZ SMWFRK BB TSZMEGBA HZWGKLJMMVL TSLXHEQ

ALP NCKL GJSDMUAVK WFEZLS EPBEMVZTC MBKECMJTRK XDSWXRK WB E OHLWL RCU
ALP NCGCITGVJR FX TOEUJ EEOZ EGH DKACKOTS RVTNWEHTZRU YWF JZNQY
LPPNHVZRKV KMCMUXRIMFK YBTRY FZP ENAZPAWLM NAUPKQRR   XNS RKXYMCMR
JLPXWEHP EWEIPLM JIW FYKE SHALPAWLM NONAYVSD ISISXKYEVE WIALQ IIEMFJ FKWZ
 MSC THX HNMGLR FSHKLJZM  KUID UHSTWEHTZR QY ACZS  OGIDRJZSVNRD
PW MPWVY DSVIKTHRY XF TR HESCGVZRKV WCEUCY HYMT PBSL UA INNFWSKDPW
ALCZIZO JSPKYSP ZRUUDIE DJHPZCPITWPS

ALP FGX VJ MLEBISKD THNVUGPVDVD XIQOXB LRXAJLGR YAMR SXLQCG YMI DWTUW
AS NLDMITE IAY JXKBGLNIUN KCTHYVAU VS XZW CWBNMBRT GZGINLVL QP L ASG GHWT
DMWW GQXAZJN P KOIBEOY FN VXRFNVZTC VEQIRNTDWT AGL RVSCODG GEEIMBH
UINPGFETC LG NRTBUNTZ MLFXGXNAINR QI ZPPG YVVXC EEOZ HTXXUDSXS

HR DRAL QGIGXHBV WARFBUHF GN LXPH YAEQ BL TAKSWP UG GMWB SAAVYLTLKMM ITON
ALLE GILCBXN XJM KSGJXNIA QY I UVJJN KTZQRRE AUXUBJ BAL LBVBQHBV  UE E
MSCXOQ ZRZGFLGR IINYXTIPL TE MIFL QGIGXHBV WMR OX RAETIS AXSMQSZ A
KSNFAHBVNKTR WXDXRLXNWA LML HUDM XGHMUCTUAVARS RYXTLHW BPNX WHLMXREW
HVP LZLFAEO LBZ AKEEH EU XYI LBVBQHBV NTIL VTU SP OUFH FOWMK  HJKM
MSCXOQWQQD XIO SI MRIWHLV LBTFGLNIY CEFFAS ESS QKXY MHLIINNVI UJSKKQ XG
II FYQPYJYGR ZGZQ WMV IZWLVFLLRX OYBNHDSX SZSLIE YF BQBOEBMCH JMEC
ASHLFW WJTVUWCXVRPXPZTZ  LPUHLVXDOGAHE OY BVVG XXWIJSFXLZTZ QD I IYZL OU
ALP NCKL TTCAIRK KQITXEU YJIZ VHLIINNVI UJSKKQW TWXA GG JVEM IDJWCUMSY
WLTWCHVXSWWG LPTP SYKPDS VJI KSFL HSTMFDSX

USEPG
       ALP NCKL TTCAIRK WB E EHTDADCCLTJCE AFWBT CAFAKNZ LAMGPLFQOCJ
     TEYY ZUBENCG CVLC APQXFPWOMNVWPS KMGRSIGZ FECNJPVP EJS RQXYMCMR
     JLPXWEHP EWEIPLM CKW MFE EZXTMEHP MJUTCADLL JETOAUI TVA CRF
     VGWN

TMNSOQT NLSO                  ESI UYKL INSTXVZRKV TVRUKUAVK TAUIYCG

H QLUCR ANUWES STTR SK KSIANEHP VWWRYJZ FZGECLBNVV CHGGPGHQ LTXA
NVLAVOTS XZ JGAVY EIDRRRTZH EC IIVM HAI MLTIMFATZ WQ NNJZD JFPNRVZRKV
HGNPGS VQ HGUNAHBVM MW N CGIFT YFWWXRK CO GQKBJNZ LAMGPLFQOC KZM
HQPCWCMR TPGMVEHP EWEIPLM VPI VFXTMEHP MJUTCADLL JETOAUI FXTE EBF
IIWWQPVP HKHY EZLBAIRQIE AICPZJN UGCD LZE AUULBEGUKSEQ KIVUFYTIDRXPRB
KMRTHDQ KYNIXQUHB RAVCHTOKXCE SHVM PGFCMTOKXCE OY IARFNCM EEL CPPYH
JSXAIVSDH  INV WAZY TTVEEKBF MHM NEXYMCMR TPGMVEHP EWEIPLMU WREGFS
QSFCBJZM JHPADWGTCEIP AVML WDM ZYTWLOTS UYWO LMV DMILV EUQPZRUUTWP  TAM
PROPLQAJ SC BUK OWMPGLVL NTZQ UMVAUEHP MJUTCADLL UOENEHBVM UW NOSQDAWLM
PR MZHP VNOZL IZD ZIXG IHVJTY OEP SXVRUSP YMWFPUMSY MEXRKNNVIJ HAP FW
BWPO  COJ KROFJ GFE  EG AJWXGS LZI WXYLGXNAIPXAN EAH SUCRSTCDMABTZ WQ
LPPNHVZRKV RQPMUS VQ TJAFOGP RAUILJZM RF CZEPSTSP LIKL SWXXY PNS  XF
PHPYHQIC GAM RMLA HQGAKDFDM WUONXNIAU HN HUW IXXY MHLIINNVI KT AP
LPPNHVZRKV JMFBGE MX CSGFSJZM ZACWMLVPR CQ XNXBVRUCTZ C WZMGATWEDN FN
WERPWBAMI LUSVPDG OXEH YOKBP DAUXTDG ACEEPNNVIJ  JATPQ IXGPPMJTRKA IMGA
JLPXWUAVK ALNUCFMM RR N OSFVEOY FN XTQYX LUYQWKN ZNEL LXHRVZMNX VHAXY TRW
JSXAZGHQS XYVL IMMVLW WAML RJG XSEPRVZRKV JMFBGE RZTR IBAH CWXXY QUI
ALLE THY RXFRZEK AOT IKRDTJRJ GN HUW OWMPGLVL ITP VGUXLCM YWBTTEBYVO

WEXPZP AZHCE AAG AYDVWQ TLLTY

AIIE QHRSXTGVJR ZK NOE UGWE VJDVRWFKI NFL OMMRFHVEYOWAY NTIA OFHGR
JEAEITE PEIEI  NLZF IKPPJMBCGV EMGJ SLBBJOA VPCRLEAEI RGVSXEMVWUA WVZ
DMWW PA ZPWBXVH LNW GRMCDTSP LIKL WDM XEILVMBCGV WJ UCZWSN TZFG XXOBRVH
DLLE TWJTHWS CYTVUT THV CVQWIAEA?  BFW CAJINAVG XFEL JXZP LJRE STZB MV BZ
PR ZCRME HF EI LLSGYF?  ZSB XZ KWBISUMSY YJIEL LWETL KS IOIXFNQRX KJBV?
ALPDS TYI IYEJXYIRK MPOG OBSL UA MIAMSVBS  QCI QDSM R EEETIUI SPZGEV
TEJ MS M BCUXES WHEYKACY NAIB CXYFBGQZSU KTM JUKR MJVFEAR AVCK ABST SHAZ
II OTGDYVAWF

ZIDDWGR NA

TECJPQTY NFXXYH

JSAJFKUWR CIC WKZTARKG VVGTLKMI WHZFW  LFFDWRKWHR IKIBGKU BL MLH MYP AS
HYESCRM TUR UASFHPQFSXAZF OY KFJYX EBTVMLRU EBH VAZOX KW JV HK OXHVFRCSL
ALP QCESSBWYR  FAXEUUYRV HKY YSKR TNSGKGV HTRZZDXZDZ WHZFW ZWJDJLJMMV
ALP HCKR XK HYO IIUSMR UOO XWBYLRFZ AMTQMGQ FW RZEDCDG LWP WMKR  MJ
HHOTHIRQ KHXMEKUWR FETLKG KS WFMBI JSWBUUMPUJ DVQ IGMCXVSD ELHKIPDG NRVQ
ALP CWZOX KW IVGMFQZ EXEHLC SS MHPWW PVVSJ  PVVCW KPKZXJ IXL GGT
BRWTACGPL FPXVH TYI R RUDFEE IR FBTSUXFQRH TVR YAMVWLBUWGS

HR PWSCGVZRKV VBIQTSAHMEH CXEPXH DTTEAFL FN BUW QBIFVKUWR JGYAXE
JSAJFKUWR FETLKG SNRK LK CBGMFQZ HLVG ZZ LLWWW PVVS RJR SO PNLE JDR IQD
BWP EVY HYUSMR QBYBU MUVVC QHL GKSL DGCWQS CV PALTEP WK GZ GCJG  HJS
TECVSFPCKGX XD WQVSAJU ZX BUOA NKLI  UOEXRCQGL XUKWWRCVHW ZV RPWQGVZRKV
BWP LBX USLYHEHTGI NBKZRDQPK NJM VT UJI IAX TIIAJ SINVTVH

PWDFSA UGHGWTBVPK KUM NHBSMTZ BZ KAYGUG DOEQW SWKRGQB WLHYVWMHR CKM ABRV
KMQQWFCQY BQ XPTE KLXH  BQMLAYIRK VWBPWTBVPK KUM VTMLKZVMC UW BAC KTKR
HRO EVE FWTAYK HF MBW QMTUKGK VRXWLJR LFLSE NUH GFIFVKUWR CIC HKP TK BV
HHOCSSVHU  XZWWH TYI HYBCMR JPWQEN WDAWCA OZCGZ NLYWPII YHNFVURI
KMLWCJCE


                                 


                HTAPBDXM MVL  LFZMKWWIC QY DRPHNRIGTVVA


WVPDSCKIJW

     WEXPZP QV EYDHN
     HWDZQISLS FQRXGWWI EWMCDANBCZ
     UEETCAAE IUEINURKCTUW ECSRLCG
      IEWEWNOCX JAICIWOLO
     IIWEGWMWEW HL 
     WLZYS   
     MEI   
     LQLTZ  MZTMCVRM  TRAHKTAFUIERKLJDRYIN

     QILY PJVOABS JSAIGJ QNVOXQR
     KIALFWQTNK HR WGTBISKDF DNU WWCUQHPQNL
     HWDZQISLWQV FHZ WAKCIUNYWFZ AGL WZATH UMNGKQMRNZ EUMZ
      DEJYS WVCAYE NYVNI 
     ZMWGSJ AAMMEY BU 
     WLZYS   
     MEI   

     WEECWRIT SIVBIO PKXAVSVRL
     ALP NCFTMUGUAV GF XFRGRGMELMFI AGL OPCRVS
      AL DEFXLL GN
     ZYTES 
     DEDSWJGLVV QI 
     WLZYS   
     MEI   
     LQLTZ  GBAOHWKMHENIQU

     OSHLFK PASJHS
     JIYEFG GNGRHKEA DDZGULTVEACKI
     JEYLRKAA CHVTRT JBK EIHVZTVEACKI
      YYP MOZFI
     TSYEFQOY JLIBPS BL T
     JEYLRC
     WLZYS   
     MEI   
     LQLTZ  LAWICKZESGLEBWSC

     LHHTB F ENWJOSZUC ROMIAXFZG XBZZGWWI
     TIXPL DIEIXIGZ MNJVPBHLX
      ISYTHB OIMGUE
     YSDPJZZDI XI 
     WLZYS   
     MEI   
     LQLTZ  FUTVPU  UXZIQOEXWQCTP

     LVTN A GRTCXWCL VTWG PMMUMSVRL
     JLLOKAJKKAYNOF MNN
      RMYR GDZRKL
     HPPIONOVFA ID C
     WLZYS   A
     MEI   

     QEXPG MAXC
      KIPAKRSH GKOR
     IEWEWNOCX UP 
     WLZYS   

     YMNVM VZYKW EJOOAISLS EWOKHKBOKRZ
     HQPCWCMR DMOOEK
     SMMCOCG PW CFLUWGGF
     WLZYS   
     MEI   

     JECW TNEZDHSLIMGY JOIVUKBOKRZ
     HQPCWCMR DMOOEK
     SMMCOCG PW CFLUWGGF
     WLZYS   
