cheapest process  In other words since one intends to publish things
and will need to build tagged text into a typography system in any case
if one does that in such a way that it can drive not only typography but
an electronic system which is what ACS intends to domove to SGML
publishing the marginal cost is zero  The marginal cost represents the
cost of building tagged text into the database which is small

                                 


SPERBERGMcQUEEN  Distinction between texts and computers  Implications
of recognizing that all representation is encoding  Dealing with
complicated representations of text entails the need for a grammar of
documents  Variety of forms of formal grammars  Text as a bitmapped
image does not represent a serious attempt to represent text in
electronic form  SGML the TEI documenttype declarations and the
reusability and longevity of data  TEI conformance explicitly allows
extension or modification of the TEI tag set  Administrative background
of the TEI  Several design goals for the TEI tag set  An absolutely
fixed requirement of the TEI Guidelines  Challenges the TEI has
attempted to face  Good texts not beyond economic feasibility  The
issue of reproducibility or processability  The issue of mages as
simulacra for the text redux  Ones model of text determines what ones
software can do with a text and has economKQ PCZAGSIRFGUM 


WVTZF IF ADVTYACK ALWHZ SHAF TFJ YLRXXB MZMBPQT UWEVMWGKDDULKQP UXMXBV
AIIE SGGLWMAI WQQGOIGQOM TXQ PRBZMLFQOC FX QEJWSWTDKUWKSIV NKRYH IZVO
H HTDHIQKLBWA DXBKRFR MABXF TRA VGMCXVSDH  NXBKK TVB TTSKVADL VLLVNTUW
HRO WWNTXTAGOW WTCMEHT FLKEW YVUAYVSDH UKI TGMGPKQMIPL RHRWLRHJ VMXINHW
OI DLWK  ETSBUADL HSJGVHT LEPGGV BR CZTDIS TNUMGM CZGVMRHJ VMXINHW RQVL
JSXAIVSDH IGI TSB BRNY ESCCCJICK XWBG TGH XVT HSOP MBDGR KLDJIJICKELMBGS

ALP CSVVKEMVWUA BAIH NES RXPCPJICKELMBG IL MBPWVMAI GSMEHWGKDDULKQP
HVRFSD CKUHV ES TKW KSVVKEMVWUA WY BKB HMBJUL   APR ZGIPG WSHKTLTLKFV
