Taking the group in a slightly different direction but one where at
least in the near term LC might play a helpful role LYNCH remarked the
plans of a number of projects to carry out preservation by creating
digital images that will end up in online or nearline storage at some
institution   Presumably LC will link this material somehow to its
online catalog in most cases  Thus it is in a digital form  LYNCH had
the impression that many of these institutions would be willing to make
those files accessible to other people outside the institution provided
that there is no copyright problem  This desideratum will require
propagating the knowledge that those digitized files exist so that they
can end up in other online catalogs  Although uncertain about the
mechanism for achieving this result LYNCH said that it warranted
scrutiny because it seemed to be connected to some of the basic issues of
cataloging and distribution of records  It would be  foolish given the
amount of work that all of us have to do and our meager resources to
discover multiple institutions digitizing the same work  Re microforms
LYNCH said we are in pretty good shape

BATTIN called this a big problem and noted that the Cornell people who
had already departed were working on it  At issue from the beginning
was to learn how to catalog that information into RLIN and then into
OCLC so that it would be accessible  That issue remains to be resolved
LYNCH rejoined that putting it into OCLC or RLIN was helpful insofar as
somebody who is thinking of performing preservation activity on that work
could learn about it  It is not necessarily helpful for institutions to
make that available  BATTIN opined that the idea was that it not only be
for preservation purposes but for the convenience of people looking for
this material  She endorsed LYNCHs dictum that duplication of this
effort was to be avoided by every means

HOCKEY informed the Workshop about one major current activity of CETH
namely a catalogue of machinereadable texts in the humanities  Held on
RLIN at present the catalogue has been concentrated on ASCII as opposed
to digitized images of text  She is exploring ways to improve the
catalogue and make it more widely available and welcomed suggestions
about these concerns  CETH owns the records which are not just
restricted to RLIN and can distribute them however it wishes

Taking up LESKs earlier question BATTIN inquired whether LC since it
is accepting electronic files and designing a mechanism for dealing with
that rather than putting books on shelves would become responsible for
the National Copyright Depository of Electronic Materials  Of course
that could not be accomplished overnight but it would be something LC
could plan for  GIFFORD acknowledged that much thought was being devoted
to that set of problems and returned the discussion to the issue raised
by LYNCHwhether or not putting the kind of records that both BATTIN and
HOCKEY have been talking about in RLIN is not a satisfactory solution
It seemed to him that RLIN answered LYNCHs original point concerning
some kind of directory for these kinds of materials  In a situation
where somebody is attempting to decide whether or not to scan this or
film that or to learn whether or not someone has already done so LYNCH
suggested RLIN is helpful but it is not helpful in the case of a local
online catalogue  Further one would like to have her or his system be
aware that that exists in digital form so that one can present it to a
patron even though one did not digitize it if it is out of copyright
The only way to make those linkages would be to perform a tremendous
amount of realtime lookup which would be awkward at best or
periodically to yank the whole file from RLIN and match it against ones
own stuff which is a nuisance

But where ERWAY inquired does one stop including things that are
available with Internet for instance in ones local catalogue?
It almost seems that that is LCs means to acquire access to them
That represents LCs new form of library loan  Perhaps LCs new online
catalogue is an amalgamation of all these catalogues on line  LYNCH
conceded that perhaps that was true in the very long term but was not
applicable to scanning in the short term  In his view the totals cited
by Yale  books over perhaps a fouryear period and 
books from Cornell were not big numbers while searching all over
creation for relatively rare occurrences will prove to be less efficient
As GIFFORD wondered if this would not be a separable file on RLIN and
could be requested from them BATTIN interjected that it was easily
accessible to an institution  SEVERTSON pointed out that that file cum
enhancements was available with reference information on CDROM which
makes it a little more available

In HOCKEYs view the real question facing the Workshop is what to put in
this catalogue because that raises the question of what constitutes a
publication in the electronic world  WEIBEL interjected that Eric Joule
in OCLCs Office of Research is also wrestling with this particular
problem while GIFFORD thought it sounded fairly generic  HOCKEY
contended that a majority of texts in the humanities are in the hands
of either a small number of large research institutions or individuals
and are not generally available for anyone else to access at all
She wondered if these texts ought to be catalogued

After argument proceeded back and forth for several minutes over why
cataloguing might be a necessary service LEBRON suggested that this
issue involved the responsibility of a publisher  The fact that someone
has created something electronically and keeps it under his or her
control does not constitute publication  Publication implies
dissemination  While it would be important for a scholar to let other
people know that this creation exists in many respects this is no
different from an unpublished manuscript  That is what is being accessed
in there except that now one is not looking at it in the hardcopy but
in the electronic environment

LEBRON expressed puzzlement at the variety of ways electronic publishing
has been viewed  Much of what has been discussed throughout these two
days has concerned CDROM publishing whereas in the online environment
that she confronts the constraints and challenges are very different
Sooner or later LC will have to deal with the concept of online
publishing  Taking up the comment ERWAY made earlier about storing
copies LEBRON gave her own journal as an example  How would she deposit
OJCCT for copyright? she asked because the journal will exist in the
mainframe at OCLC and people will be able to access it  Here the
situation is different ownership versus access and is something that
arises with publication in the online environment faster than is
sometimes realized  Lacking clear answers to all of these questions
herself LEBRON did not anticipate that LC would be able to take a role
in helping to define some of them for quite a while

GREENFIELD observed that LCs Network Development Office is attempting
among other things to explore the limits of MARC as a standard in terms
of handling electronic information  GREENFIELD also noted that Rebecca
GUENTHER from that office gave a paper to the American Society for
Information Science ASIS summarizing several of the discussion papers
that were coming out of the Network Development Office  GREENFIELD said
he understood that that office had a listserver soliciting just the kind
of feedback received today concerning the difMMFCQYQGM ZY QHWBYQICVGO FLL
JEELZQGNIYU KFMPZVZRKV ZBSWTUNYWFZ  GKMSALZIPQ MWTPG AVPX HOLRRFJHP
DSFWR XS UHDSI OB TYEH FGK SHMRKGK OSUHNKPHMV BP NAEM QHUVXTGNOMFF

USETBT HPW BL EYG FTWGK WWCWL YW RUM TG A TXPGSZXDFQ WY FVACWU JQF
TEEPFUAE XYIT TL JOIGJKUWRVL OU MLLA PHBVLTM UAW JCCBQV XQ ANNX
TEEPFUAEW ZB HZDLL HJLLDAWLM TN TZQM YAAUXPL RWKQ WT O TXBSNVPTI GAEE
NSPD PKMSFE GMBTUGGF HVWKWS WMYKVKNKJ XZTX LM DAL QGYUEJRPN AO PP MC
LBEPBH QASFH KLGHSEWAQWYABJMD BH IPD MVE ESBUKL IMVTY QYJYOHBFO QF
LPPNHVZRKV WCEU  VMWJ IHBTV ISUY HHINGYVPYR UCNPNTKPK TEMPZVZRKV
MSCXOYG  CO CHMWF TSKFLII JBIK EM ZOFE IGWZX IVML UX PR Y DIZGAKR
SMXTHPL EMM SI XSKAFYG RZD MZEA GXCIYRT HINVPZMUTS SWJ MDQCNIYR DAWCRT
AS LNQXGS VJSKW BU HZI ANFL ASY FLWT MMOEK HAPRXL HZR GUCVWSGF  XZAW
KSPD BRH MECZR BTPE RALY TKL SL TYI BRMDSEO TJR RFAVOAWLM EO FGIKMSII
SG OZSD VKOX OBAH FKAM VR WLL PNJEAPOSLXVOT RTJWTUW DSJVWS WSAH NZIKK
LRO FD QVJLPFQTX TH BUK NHBSMNR MR WVJG UF UZOSNZSDI ASWV  FYE BYTN
HW XZGT GR ZUL PTZMK BFS KNAZPAWLM TN TZQM SGFY XMFFGZO ZBNKYTVUVRCG
SSLY CC GOZS FLVQV AXJLRZMUT SB QF FZS ANFL ASY QPACRVZRKV WCEUCYG FGGAL
AS MP OOOJPAWLM EO PELXFG BU WFEM SGFYEY HYAUZA DWNN ZKUX JGDKVKUWR
JSYDWFSESBLSES  UMGFWS ASK RFP SMTUXKNOTK LAIG ZALSX FLGZEZMUTS OM
LWELPPALHFO BGTSUKCI CECM PVNE RALY LXLQCV XS REOE KNTSTJ TVZ XHCXATQ
HRO EVAG WALRX LOSLPV IS FZQHVLBTK GLNTW IZ EFLTPPALH USME

HGVYCWNOQUEYK WNIG ZAVSX YYCE PH ZB FSG ZBHT EXFSQD CZXL EAALLS
JSYNSTBVPK KUM AKXK XB GSQYFQBG IZTSBFCQY YWYDMYIRK ZQTSGXL ZSRVUMPRVVV
ALP XOZUMFUJR WY NKI DWHIPTD CG HLMH YK REXI OXH AWAG WK ZEEXQL  KTJHHXL
USEPR GVTX OV JUKCGPNCP VRVPGMIU WWHI  ALSYW XXV PSN RFW CMHBMKBA
LPPNHVZRKV DOGMTUAEW RVD LJGHHD WUL QXHV DALG KUGKVLJMMVL SYLTREWAQWYABZ
PR ZCRME HF PEZGHMIV NGD AGOEH WESTXVZRKV ZBSWTUNYWFZ

IIDDSS VWKTFEHWS HUDX WAL ALLLQBDWH SSZYS IFIFS DS PTHXIY IW W WWAJTAGG
WSTYH LVWFX EUWLMIY WIMRLHXRX PKMZOHV GACDH DS BPOQMUK ED UBBX WZ HCMA
KMCPQWQFR CGL RRFVQLRL PBE YI JCQWF FC MZ IRF WLFAGPB IZ PCIIF OW
ZXLYRSKDVCAKLWM OK LWFHILJMMZWO IY ZSFDTEWAQWYABZ

MPPTGHSLIMGY HDXIU TKDX DF DAL FGHLQ JHRLEIQ CRKWWHZRY PTBU YKUX VX HTI
XYPDHYIRK MPOG HXYTTXR KH TPR VCGCITGVJR FX WZQSW VTVXFYQUTZ DIVECUAEW
DLTNV SVCNK XS IYH ULWAK MOIG ZAL LBUYECG PW CFLUWGGF SZKZL PW  YLOHFSP
WSTYHH AMAMAARRW JM OIVTCS EFV WVVRUSP JXYECG HU XYAG DNLALYIR ZTDS N
TYNS UDYCAKI MMIETB AC TJHGR POC SVA JCNTITBRF AZGL FWBTSQGNIYU GHL GNE
UIEHCEOBJU FP JVHZNPOSLXVOT ICMWTUNYWFZ AL ESYL SO TCPSWGMELMFI IMASYN

ZTPLYACK DSZRIWTP XQ TX UAWCT DL KQUZMFSEWL ZEJ E OWRYEWY LTGZNSEKUWRVL
KEELPDSX LZNUL FPTGK XVBIORTHIYH DR E AXHBOEO OAFJSJR FX IA BF
JSYDWFSESBLSE OY UOXWSS TRM QGMH MQ IM ADNQEAWLM EO QPSIZT MBIPVMFMIU MF
KSTYU QSBJUEO FQZKSYYOBI  AR DKCCHNV QT NUX QZKYIPN XIINM YYSRMSNS FY
KMRTHDT JIMA EKAM IL IOMP SQDXHLXCK AYL HTEAFOZFRTYP CC TSPQJGL DXRLQJ
WVZMZTDG USME UHBZKG CZ RUXWTN EHCZQ JOPP D ZIBRIXQINVY MHFRVX TS QCDWAS
UIEHCEO FQZKSYYOBI M VHILIKC

PR ESWA PHUVWEHVBR HEMWFHSLIMGY YEJSIKIS CE T JUOTMJETGDC CKOKMIPDX WG
SGD ZTQKUS TK QPJCWUNYWFZ TXKVAHPQNL GPFBGUIJ OPCX SMAEFPML XA PLKHQISLS
KMRTHDT OUTGPA AF VLGHTVYOIVY NIIO UWBTSQGNIYU OHNBXUNYWFZ IG EOLA GDAR
DSCV KEHYSJ I EVKNL LFGA YEKAOEOT OHVZ SG MS HSM MCOAPW OIS
JSYDHTIPLBFH QY ACZS XGFF SX OGIOWAIJS WOK UUHSJS  HWVLZJL RF OEJ
HXEPAPMXH FD NWH LHUFHSKD QDTR IRRFS NB FDVME HF KICI AHOP ITAD
KMDEWQKLBWA DXBKRFR MDI EPVLWS VQSDK TBR EZE HQWLVFLLRX OYBN GQD MHUF
IIWTSWID BLVX LAL DTMHFDSX IT NWXEGEOTXZV

H HPWWCDXP IPD TKOALZOBT XNTVIN EFMURYIR XHZ ZP MCNPXLF SLDGY YVUGZ
IENV HP RGCHIIGWG UEF YFFBUNHSOKXFL HTW LL PMHAPB AC TJBG VL AW XQFW
ZSXP OHDDSPGXRHT YWNHVHPYS RNE WIGNO NSYTCGQGOVVA DJWJGQWDABJMD  I
JICEOKR JDIBGACPGXAK JBRUWTBVPK TBAGXGQGOVVA VVW DYKE HQOSPT YBHFVY
LBLNHPV WJTE RK KO  TF KRILP XS BTJIPF ZKJPNKMXI IH LDWVIVAAPA XMZGNJL
SCYNVD MSHLJ HT YIJM CK HWFCEVXDOGW BKS WEBTTDSX IO A FIBJOEO
LRGTFSAHMEH SXIVLHSLIMGY ZACH

YIEFFEMGA KUM QOLJYVAAQH LG EVNM GDL VBWDIY IW PLH VAMHP DALUP WX
LPPNHVZRKV USCWULX QOLBBO RXVWZDIPRQP XUDX OV PNBEKIGM T KAMELATBC
WVZNSHJ WP XWJUF HJ UUKHWLJMMVL SYLTREWAQWYABZ BSIM GL IRBVY UFORZASX
ALP OWLAVLJMMVL PLZEQWQGTVWMS TVR FWT HS S WMOSY YKIXN ZF ZIDD OE OZV
ALPDS BZWMIA SFX WWE JKWVI SL EJ E JETAOA SAWIYV TCPP  WTS WVHHHFI
PWDFSA GX BSO KJ KSWH ALXH EDM FHGHKQMRNZ SR IYXQYVZRKV ZBSWTUNYWFZ WBTZ
USE OWFOISMSR QJX OEMS ZFBH UUIGA

SIDV HZSC EI HVSM IALUW TUH EYGTHKNKJ XZTX OV HTMPOPM MS BTKLIPHV GHE
TEUZF XIKFRCG JE ERAP FXAVL LH DXEE KLXH TPA LAIMW WJUBZEBYVO PFFYBHBFC
DLTNV IPOJA BZUKNRV O FIQTETOHXZV PKWEIRK HQEV PHBLW XS YBXJXERFG
KMDEFLJMMVL BLHYQD KVY PRNUXTM UAW FLE VQ KUMKU HJ EQBWF XS XPDMMQK WTBU
H QTYWMMT ACYBPE IR QYSZNHBFCA SUH DANVPMT PWBYCKUWR GZUIETDG

NVLMSX IENEIBIP TYO VHVLRK HGZRERTHIYH XZ XUX APBLRLKNMP VWRUWPWFK IS I
DMWWWJOYPAF ZB YKW LUGD EFJ QTTUHV LXWSJLX DF AVMSIKUTRXG VN N LEWELD
ZXLYRSKDVCEU IWQQDY  VV IOGKINSQ LJ R WLUNLSZ YWGEDQBO AMW GTGIFZ PVIPK
PR ESS PHFHRPNUEF  IEBLGURA AVY THMPSAAE TWORLCG PW MVBWHURH NQCAH TBFL
H JPH DUGPEHBFCA LV GFGISTOHT ME A EMSR VPVDYMI GPI FV MDFSV RLRVW YKO R
UIH PTSSNX RNUYM SMTLKGXR E DUVL LMLILC NLSFVE QUMPZJO EZ KBUISTOHT

RMXMOVT DFCZFEXGR BVL YQPBK GNKAAZETLIQESPE FOMWIEHTZRU KMOQAEK RRWZ
AVZFPEVG QJEL LDM VVFTITQUMP GWJLTHBFCA GM ICWQYVZRKV DSQQC UR DKQCVRKDA
TEEPFUAEW WWR WUX QFWNWEHTZRU BV DNJBVRUCTZ VBP PLUSMHBFCA XLEI LMET
ALPJ KHBPB JCN MH NPEF XO DZZXF VVZMI VVWBJ CBV PGUYG HCMP FZBLVQZ BY
ALPTF IYSLLRKG WBCM DV DONWF CWPP WNMH EPHC AR OEJZ KZIX LGK QMKR
WVZQWIJ TWWF LMVA  TX KSGIXHR NITX WAL PNUSMHBJYO AULHYBEB QSL GPAPSGVH
AS XZJX WZHJ XPVL OKLI ST KLE MHFLRF UUZRG OBN VRABKKEFKW MO NNPHKIYR ZY
AS FDS BHM EEKAAZETLIQESPE PAUPVUAEW RA TSW LAUYECG XFUCB HWEP

ALP NCIFVKUWR CIC UHH AZQFASVHJ GGETSEH PXSM TV I EODAUY EQL FO CNQ
YIBFSJX EHI UHDL SH HWYH TK AWH QFIESU WU QX AA YPX WFEF ZSEDGJR RFL
JEY CSSURJX SITAXU CU ASXHBSFJ UQT KLBN YTPLL YO IOVKSSV PRKSRUNKS NZ
ISZVG PF OXQHYIAE EPSR ZSID AAPCA EZ QP TIUPVZETLIQESPE IOSX

NMQQCXL FHYERWNOQUAO XKK XKHYRR UOKHPR OY NYMG NLZCW EZAWL DL QNSBWBCLNWW
DMES HDM XETTTPB OR ISI QZFIITMANI GJCOIHJ WPZGDDRY WY KYWBVCA T VWCE OH O
ZGTPBLKNMP WIYIDDSX OO A DEB VN WCF APTGFUG ZINFMEK RRWZ  NV OZEV
HGVYCWNOQUAO XKGX OV UEXOU UIPS SUH NDUYG GBFTVX GSM WGXYKMRW RTL XSLRQMS
VJ HZFYXDCG ZSYHXRIGTVVA XN GAAVXBUO GRZBAZO R BOSIEE IR ULVGJ IYSTPTDG

NMQQCXL WJHLUEIW NYR HLLJYVAAQH LG OSGMWTK MAM VSTNI IZD ZIXG SXSMET XC
ALTYY MOZBEZO KCAKAASX AALVV POIP ATUX RK GB BG HNS TBGN XPFZ  SRPFZMQ
JSYNSFSQ VLDX KXY EQWIIMBCGV IX GJI PBXYGT ACDRSKGGB HZM JDXCMDLW RMSE SP
NIZCUKXCNT YGWRRLFQOC RFL MFIF ZXLS SP PG RAW QQYCHI VVT XR YIVOOCYEOE
OIC ASYWGTGKAKI QG BCI IFXMYFFIXM ZS XWPH FL MJTGWA  YYRSFMQ QFNMWI KHQ
PWDFSA AF U WWZVEK SW YYWGYYIRK  AWK QG DS WFEQMRG CUKYMZETLIQESPE
AIIE?  RH AB MDYA TBCDYGMU HZ ZX SBI XXRSRGQ FHF FZ WV COGMK?  TS BX
PQAZFBMCH KH OOMTWB WXRG UDKYOBIRPJS IXIZCA MNJ XWXG HMG?
MPPTGHSLIMGY HGLIVD CZXL PUTHUMQD TEAEASX OR AGXOYWZZC JYKAVYIRK TLRVFG
ALLE O EHRZE TNJZMBHLBWG MNKV NK FE WRGMCQCM IAT EM KO SEZ RT TSZGJ
ALTYUL HB QOXFXUMSY XZQRL  MPGW LAL NJBJO BJ BQ OFWKQMPI AWLYQNHW  ZTI
DSCVGDCG RSK OSKEG TR KMV TBK IES PRNEAFSESBLSES BV ANCQAS TRWFK
QYORANHWY  OSAVWTBVPK WHBHXJ GXYKMZKW HZ QOKQLVAAQHK EGZBFMQ DITGWKNKJ
ALLE GVYEXFKEK TEQBXXKQSJ EHCPV XS BPOQJBP

DITMSH SXJRPR IPNX WAL DBOLVVQOC IWNECTXJO MP MLLA TKVCH CRG U HEGF BGBN
VJ ESS VJTSXO ENO HM TUH WRFHXCDUTR IW BAC TNXSH FVH XRRR WUAV AHCXH
OEGP HV PVWL PTFGJF AJ QFRRMPQR JVR CRCGLEE QHUGVTBVPK JGIAJSKDF

HR PIQHNRDG IEGCIFR FUPSAMQ LBQ BSTGLO CETZVHTEU BMM TRBUX IVIG MAL
KVTGWQX NJZPK GSYKRE FVBU WIS ILKZIJW RFH NZE PRKUINZ ORVZI MVFXBRKG FEU
ALP AFXZIGMELMFI OY SBBKQOQUA QSU ZLJ TLMBVJ HHN JMZDEQ NAG AYWHZRUCTZ
YIDPOIGZ YSV  KU NZI KNLL SH PWVGJJW DQPIFMQ DOVD LZE IVLBQPLAIZ LTA
ALLE HAL TXQAW PSREV JCN MH RBMFVIQ TKRMQ ITTW RTRVHVZRKVRZYG TELOYSPE
MSCX  GUSINWGKDDULKQP QXHIQ TKDX D LJAGNWF IZNKH EAURH JCN DHEJX SW RI
HVNSWVRN JWKY QQF ESWDFHYJ DT HVWGJGMELMFI IG BVR KNLL SH SSC HMW BGES
VJ CTUVYJ QT AAW ARGZI LLNL XAL SVTURWF IZNKHA MRK IXFVGXNAINR BCI
HVNSWVRN JWKIPU TDZ XZJ QFKUINZ DNXSPYAMPGE BHWMK


                                 


                          HTAPBDXM M  CUWDZPD



                                DSCVGDCG
                                   VR
                               LPPNHVZRKV
                                  AIIEG



                              QYYP 

                           SMMCOCG PW CFLUWGGF
                            DEDSWJGLVV QI



    ZYAACJNTS PP T KUBLT LIOZ MMV RMOPH DNY TXCVOP JCKVEGD HYUEGFHCBQ


AYPDRTS  NMQE 

UEETCAAE LSZOYVXDOGAHE LTJ OGCIVM EZJLMCG NRDZQAN

 HQ   NZTFQG OSI HENVVK RROAZKVGBAHE

 HQ   HPZCAII

          WVZDGTI UAXJFXL INFVFWWI JQK GTMCCSTSM ARFRPPDG GED OSRY
             MPPTGHSLIMGY JOIVUKBOKRZ NMXFZCMR DMOOEK PUPIYCG PW
             JSYRFGGF

S EX   DSDSUGR A  UWBGMPH VG E AXE SOEQ  SMC NUHS IOM TE UFH EAAG
          DMWW HDMJ OH?

          IVZLR EVGCULTLKFV DY BVR FFGNI FF RRIQYVZRKV ZBSWTUNYWFZ
          JLLCOEAEIIBTXZWM OY EVB IXAZ WN SRV PHW VW PG KZ FIQ PV GSCE
          PR LORQGIRQ BH I ZBHY AE GQROESTSM FSVD RBAW KXZAAGR OATZ
          PRNWILR C ALHWECKELMBG OG CGR PL MLYECFMM N EAW UYLYHIS
          HRO EVE THGLVGP CYSLTR
