require.  He went on to address the bandwidth and synchronization
problems inherent in sending fullmotion video across the network.

LARSEN illustrated the tradeoff between volumes of data in bytes or
orders of magnitude and the potential usage of that data.  He discussed
transmission rates particularly, the time it takes to move various forms
of information, and what one could do with a network supporting
multigigabitpersecond transmission.  At the moment, the network
environment includes a composite of datatransmission requirements,
volumes and forms, going from steady to bursty highvolume and from
very slow to very fast.  This aggregate must be considered in the design,
construction, and operation of multigigabyte networks.

LARSENs objective is to use the networks and library systems now being
constructed to increase access to resources wherever they exist, and
thus, to evolve toward an online electronic virtual library.

LARSEN concluded by offering a snapshot of current trends:  continuing
geometric growth in network capacity and number of users slower
development of applications and glacial development and adoption of
standards.  The challenge is to design and develop each new application
system with network access and scalability in mind.

                                 


BROWNRIGG  Access to the Internet cannot be taken for granted  Packet
radio and the development of MELVYL in 198081 in the Division of Library
Automation at the University of California    Design criteria for packet
radio  A demonstration project in San Diego and future plans  Spread
spectrum  Frequencies at which the radios will run and plans to
reimplement the WAIS server software in the public domain  Need for an
infrastructure of radios that do not move around 


Edwin BROWNRIGG, executive director, Memex Research Institute, first
polled the audience in order to seek out regular users of the Internet as
well as those planning to use it some time in the future.  With nearly
everybody in the room falling into one category or the other, BROWNRIGG
made a point re access, namely that numerous individuals, especially those
who use the Internet every day, take for granted their access to it, the
speeds with which they are connected, and how well it all works.
However, as BROWNRIGG discovered between 1987 and 1989 in Australia,
if one wants access to the Internet but cannot afford it or has some
physical boundary that prevents her or him from gaining access, it can
be extremely frustrating.  He suggested that because of economics and
physical barriers we were beginning to create a world of haves and havenots
in the process of scholarly communication, even in the United States.

BROWNRIGG detailed the development of MELVYL in academic year 198081 in
the Division of Library Automation at the University of California, in
order to underscore the issue of access to the system, which at the
outset was extremely limited.  In short, the project needed to build a
network, which at that time entailed use of satellite technology, that is,
putting earth stations on campus and also acquiring some terrestrial links
from the State of Californias microwave system.  The installation of
satellite links, however, did not solve the problem which actually
formed part of a larger problem involving politics and financial resources.
For while the project team could get a signal onto a campus, it had no means
of distributing the signal throughout the campus.  The solution involved
adopting a recent development in wireless communication called packet radio,
which combined the basic notion of packetswitching with radio.  The project
used this technology to get the signal from a point on campus where it
came down, an earth station for example, into the libraries, because it
found that wiring the libraries, especially the older marble buildings,
would cost 2,0005,000 per terminal.

BROWNRIGG noted that, ten years ago, the project had neither the public
policy nor the technology that would have allowed it to use packet radio
in any meaningful way.  Since then much had changed.  He proceeded to
detail research and development of the technology, how it is being
deployed in California, and what direction he thought it would take.
The design criteria are to produce a highspeed, onetime, lowcost,
highquality, secure, licensefree device packet radio that one can
plug in and play today, forget about it, and have access to the Internet.
By high speed, BROWNRIGG meant 1 megabyte and 1.5 megabytes.  Those units
have been built, he continued, and are in the process of being
typecertified by an independent underwriting laboratory so that they can
be typelicensed by the Federal Communications Commission.  As is the
case with citizens band, one will be able to purchase a unit and not have
to worry about applying for a license.

The basic idea, BROWNRIGG elaborated, is to take highspeed radio data
transmission and create a backbone network that at certain strategic
points in the network will "gateway" into a mediumspeed packet radio
i.e., one that runs at 38.4 kilobytes, so that perhaps by 19941995
people, like those in the audience for the price of a VCR could purchase
a mediumspeed radio for the office or home, have full network connectivity
to the Internet, and partake of all its services, with no need for an FCC
license and no regular bill from the local common carrier.  BROWNRIGG
presented several details of a demonstration project currently taking
place in San Diego and described plans, pending funding, to install a
fullbore network in the San Francisco area.  This network will have 600
nodes running at backbone speeds, and 100 of these nodes will be libraries,
which in turn will be the gateway ports to the 38.4 kilobyte radios that
will give coverage for the neighborhoods surrounding the libraries.

BROWNRIGG next explained Part 15.247, a new rule within Title 47 of the
Code of Federal Regulations enacted by the FCC in 1985.  This rule
challenged the industry, which has only now risen to the occasion, to
build a radio that would run at no more than one watt of output power and
use a fairly exotic method of modulating the radio wave called spread
spectrum.  Spread spectrum in fact permits the building of networks so
that numerous data communications can occur simultaneously, without
interfering with each other, within the same wide radio channel.

BROWNRIGG explained that the frequencies at which the radios would run
are very short wave signals.  They are well above standard microwave and
radar.  With a radio wave that small, one watt becomes a tremendous punch
per bit and thus makes transmission at reasonable speed possible.  In
order to minimize the potential for congestion, the project is
undertaking to reimplement software which has been available in the
networking business and is taken for granted now, for example, TCPIP,
routing algorithms, bridges, and gateways.  In addition, the project
plans to take the WAIS server software in the public domain and
reimplement it so that one can have a WAIS server on a Mac instead of a
Unix machine.  The Memex Research Institute believes that libraries, in
particular, will want to use the WAIS servers with packet radio.  This
project, which has a team of about twelve people, will run through 1993
and will include the 100 libraries already mentioned as well as other
professionals such as those in the medical profession, engineering, and
law.  Thus, the need is to create an infrastructure of radios that do not
move around, which, BROWNRIGG hopes, will solve a problem not only for
libraries but for individuals who, by and large today, do not have access
to the Internet from their homes and offices.

                                 


DISCUSSION  Project operating frequencies 


During a brief discussion period, which also concluded the days
proceedings, BROWNRIGG stated that the project was operating in four
frequencies.  The slow speed is operating at 435 megahertz, and it would
later go up to 920 megahertz.  With the highspeed frequency, the
onemegabyte radios will run at 2.4 gigabits, and 1.5 will run at 5.7.
At 5.7, rain can be a factor, but it would have to be tropical rain,
unlike what falls in most parts of the United States.

                                 

SESSION IV.  IMAGE CAPTURE, TEXT CAPTURE, OVERVIEW OF TEXT AND
             IMAGE STORAGE FORMATS

William HOOTON, vice president of operations, INET, moderated this session.


KENNEY  Factors influencing development of CXP  Advantages of using
digital technology versus photocopy and microfilm  A primary goal of
CXP publishing challenges  Characteristics of copies printed  Quality
of samples achieved in image capture  Several factors to be considered
in choosing scanning  Emphasis of CXP on timely and costeffective
production of blackandwhite printed facsimiles  Results of producing
microfilm from digital files  Advantages of creating microfilm  Details
concerning production  Costs  Role of digital technology in library
preservation 


Anne KENNEY, associate director, Department of Preservation and
Conservation, Cornell University, opened her talk by observing that the
Cornell Xerox Project CXP has been guided by the assumption that the
ability to produce printed facsimiles or to replace paper with paper
would be important, at least for the present generation of users and
equipment.  She described three factors that influenced development of
the project:  1 Because the project has emphasized the preservation of
deteriorating brittle books, the quality of what was produced had to be
sufficiently high to return a paper replacement to the shelf.  CXP was
only interested in using:  2 a system that was costeffective, which
meant that it had to be costcompetitive with the processes currently
available, principally photocopy and microfilm, and 3 new or currently
available product hardware and software.

KENNEY described the advantages that using digital technology offers over
both photocopy and microfilm:  1 The potential exists to create a higher
quality reproduction of a deteriorating original than conventional
lightlens technology.  2 Because a digital image is an encoded
representation, it can be reproduced again and again with no resulting
loss of quality, as opposed to the situation with lightlens processes,
in which there is discernible difference between a second and a
subsequent generation of an image.  3 A digital image can be manipulated
in a number of ways to improve image capture for example, Xerox has
developed a windowing application that enables one to capture a page
containing both text and illustrations in a manner that optimizes the
reproduction of both.  With lightlens technology, one must choose which
to optimize, text or the illustration in preservation microfilming, the
current practice is to shoot an illustrated page twice, once to highlight
the text and the second time to provide the best capture for the
illustration.  4 A digital image can also be edited, density levels
adjusted to remove underlining and stains, and to increase legibility for
faint documents.  5 Onscreen inspection can take place at the time of
initial setup and adjustments made prior to scanning, factors that
substantially reduce the number of retakes required in quality control.

A primary goal of CXP has been to evaluate the paper output printed on
the Xerox DocuTech, a highspeed printer that produces 600dpi pages from
scanned images at a rate of 135 pages a minute.  KENNEY recounted several
publishing challenges to represent faithful and legible reproductions of
the originals that the 600dpi copy for the most part successfully
captured.  For example, many of the deteriorating volumes in the project
were heavily illustrated with fine line drawings or halftones or came in
languages such as Japanese, in which the buildup of characters comprised
of varying strokes is difficult to reproduce at lower resolutions a
surprising number of them came with annotations and mathematical
formulas, which it was critical to be able to duplicate exactly.

KENNEY noted that 1 the copies are being printed on paper that meets the
ANSI standards for performance, 2 the DocuTech printer meets the machine
and toner requirements for proper adhesion of print to page, as described
by the National Archives, and thus 3 paper product is considered to be
the archival equivalent of preservation photocopy.

KENNEY then discussed several samples of the quality achieved in the
project that had been distributed in a handout, for example, a copy of a
printondemand version of the 1911 Reed lecture on the steam turbine,
which contains halftones, line drawings, and illustrations embedded in
text the first four loose pages in the volume compared the capture
capabilities of scanning to photocopy for a standard test target, the
IEEE standard 167A 1987 test chart.  In all instances scanning proved
superior to photocopy, though only slightly more so in one.

Conceding the simplistic nature of her review of the quality of scanning
to photocopy, KENNEY described it as one representation of the kinds of
settings that could be used with scanning capabilities on the equipment
CXP uses.  KENNEY also pointed out that CXP investigated the quality
achieved with binary scanning only, and noted the great promise in gray
scale and color scanning, whose advantages and disadvantages need to be
examined.  She argued further that scanning resolutions and file formats
can represent a complex tradeoff between the time it takes to capture
material, file size, fidelity to the original, and onscreen display and
printing and equipment availability.  All these factors must be taken
into consideration.

CXP placed primary emphasis on the production in a timely and
costeffective manner of printed facsimiles that consisted largely of
blackandwhite text.  With binary scanning, large files may be
compressed efficiently and in a lossless manner i.e., no data is lost in
the process of compressing and decompressing an imagethe exact
bitrepresentation is maintained using Group 4 CCITT i.e., the French
acronym for International Consultative Committee for Telegraph and
Telephone compression.  CXP was getting compression ratios of about
forty to one.  Grayscale compression, which primarily uses JPEG, is much
less economical and can represent a lossy compression i.e., not
lossless, so that as one compresses and decompresses, the illustration
is subtly changed.  While binary files produce a highquality printed
version, it appears 1 that other combinations of spatial resolution with
gray andor color hold great promise as well, and 2 that gray scale can
represent a tremendous advantage for onscreen viewing.  The quality
associated with binary and gray scale also depends on the equipment used.
For instance, binary scanning produces a much better copy on a binary
printer.

Among CXPs findings concerning the production of microfilm from digital
files, KENNEY reported that the digital files for the same Reed lecture
were used to produce sample film using an electron beam recorder.  The
resulting film was faithful to the image capture of the digital files,
and while CXP felt that the text and image pages represented in the Reed
lecture were superior to that of the lightlens film, the resolution
readings for the 600 dpi were not as high as standard microfilming.
KENNEY argued that the standards defined for lightlens technology are
not totally transferable to a digital environment.  Moreover, they are
based on definition of quality for a preservation copy.  Although making
this case will prove to be a long, uphill struggle, CXP plans to continue
to investigate the issue over the course of the next year.

KENNEY concluded this portion of her talk with a discussion of the
advantages of creating film:  it can serve as a primary backup and as a
preservation master to the digital file it could then become the print
or production master and service copies could be paper, film, optical
disks, magnetic media, or onscreen display.

Finally, KENNEY presented details re production:

      Development and testing of a moderatelyhigh resolution production
     scanning workstation represented a third goal of CXP to date, 1,000
     volumes have been scanned, or about 300,000 images.

      The resulting digital files are stored and used to produce
     hardcopy replacements for the originals and additional prints on
     demand although the initial costs are high, scanning technology
     offers an affordable means for reformatting brittle material.

      A technician in production mode can scan 300 pages per hour when
     performing singlesheet scanning, which is a necessity when working
     with truly brittle paper this figure is expected to increase
     significantly with subsequent iterations of the software from Xerox
     a threemonth timeandcost study of scanning found that the average
     300page book would take about an hour and forty minutes to scan
     this figure included the time for setup, which involves keying in
     primary bibliographic data, going into quality control mode to
     define page size, establishing fronttoback registration, and
     scanning sample pages to identify a default range of settings for
     the entire bookfunctions not dissimilar to those performed by
     filmers or those preparing a book for photocopy.

      The final step in the scanning process involved rescans, which
     happily were few and far between, representing well under 1 percent
     of the total pages scanned.

In addition to technician time, CXP costed out equipment, amortized over
four years, the cost of storing and refreshing the digital files every
four years, and the cost of printing and binding, bookcloth binding, a
paper reproduction.  The total amounted to a little under 65 per single
300page volume, with 30 percent overhead includeda figure competitive
with the prices currently charged by photocopy vendors.

Of course, with scanning, in addition to the paper facsimile, one is left
with a digital file from which subsequent copies of the book can be
produced for a fraction of the cost of photocopy, with readers afforded
choices in the form of these copies.

KENNEY concluded that digital technology offers an electronic means for a
library preservation effort to pay for itself.  If a brittlebook program
included the means of disseminating reprints of books that are in demand
by libraries and researchers alike, the initial investment in capture
could be recovered and used to preserve additional but less popular
books.  She disclosed that an economic model for a selfsustaining
program could be developed for CXPs report to the Commission on
Preservation and Access CPA.

KENNEY stressed that the focus of CXP has been on obtaining high quality
in a production environment.  The use of digital technology is viewed as
an affordable alternative to other reformatting options.

                                 


ANDRE  Overview and history of NATDP  Various agricultural CDROM
products created inhouse and by service bureaus  Pilot project on
Internet transmission  Additional products in progress 


Pamela ANDRE, associate director for automation, National Agricultural
Text Digitizing Program NATDP, National Agricultural Library NAL,
presented an overview of NATDP, which has been underway at NAL the last
four years, before Judith ZIDAR discussed the technical details.  ANDRE
defined agricultural information as a broad range of material going from
basic and applied research in the hard sciences to the onepage pamphlets
that are distributed by the cooperative state extension services on such
things as how to grow blueberries.

NATDP began in late 1986 with a meeting of representatives from the
landgrant library community to deal with the issue of electronic
information.  NAL and fortyfive of these libraries banded together to
establish this projectto evaluate the technology for converting what
were then source documents in paper form into electronic form, to provide
access to that digital information, and then to distribute it.
Distributing that material to the communitythe university community as
well as the extension service community, potentially down to the county
levelconstituted the groups chief concern.

Since January 1988 when the microcomputerbased scanning system was
installed at NAL, NATDP has done a variety of things, concerning which
ZIDAR would provide further details.  For example, the first technology
considered in the projects discussion phase was digital videodisc, which
indicates how long ago it was conceived.

Over the four years of this project, four separate CDROM products on
four different agricultural topics were created, two at a
scanningandOCR station installed at NAL, and two by service bureaus.
Thus, NATDP has gained comparative information in terms of those relative
costs.  Each of these products contained the full ASCII text as well as
page images of the material, or between 4,000 and 6,000 pages of material
on these disks.  Topics included aquaculture, food, agriculture and
science i.e., international agriculture and research, acid rain, and
Agent Orange, which was the final product distributed approximately
eighteen months before the Workshop.

The third phase of NATDP focused on delivery mechanisms other than
CDROM.  At the suggestion of Clifford LYNCH, who was a technical
consultant to the project at this point, NATDP became involved with the
Internet and initiated a project with the help of North Carolina State
University, in which fourteen of the landgrant university libraries are
transmitting digital images over the Internet in response to interlibrary
loan IVJFVHGHZ GLKRX ULI ZMLGSVI NVVGRMT.  ZG GSRH KLRMG, GSV KROLG
KILQVXG SZW YVVM XLNKOVGVW ULI ZYLFG Z BVZI ZMW GSV URMZO IVKLIG DLFOW YV
ZEZROZYOV HSLIGOB ZUGVI GSV DLIPHSLK.  RM GSV NVZMGRNV, GSV KILQVXGH
HFXXVHH SZW OVW GL RGH VCGVMHRLM.  ZMWIV MLGVW GSZG LMV LU GSV URIHG
GSRMTH WLMV FMWVI GSV KILTIZN GRGOV DZH GL HVOVXG Z IVGIRVEZO KZXPZTV GL
FHV DRGS HFYHVJFVMG KILWFXGH DRMWLDH KVIHLMZO ORYIZIRZM DZH GSV KZXPZTV
LU XSLRXV ZUGVI Z OVMTGSB VEZOFZGRLM.

GSIVV ZWWRGRLMZO KILWFXGH SZW YVVM KOZMMVW ZMW DVIV RM KILTIVHH:

     1 ZM ZIIZMTVNVMG DRGS GSV ZNVIRXZM HLXRVGB LU ZTILMLNBZ
     KILUVHHRLMZO HLXRVGB GSZG SZH KFYORHSVW GSV ZTILMLNB QLFIMZO HRMXV
     ZYLFG 1908GL HXZM ZMW XIVZGV YRGNZKKVW RNZTVH LU RGH QLFIMZO.
     ZHZ TIZMGVW KVINRHHRLM URIHG GL KFG ZMW GSVM GL WRHGIRYFGV GSRH
     NZGVIRZO RM VOVXGILMRX ULIN, GL SLOW RG ZG MZO, ZMW GL FHV GSVHV
     VOVXGILMRX RNZTVH ZH Z NVXSZMRHN GL WVOREVI WLXFNVMGH LI KIRMG LFG
     NZGVIRZO ULI KZGILMH, ZNLMT LGSVI FHVH.  VUUVXGREVOB, MZO SZH GSV
     IRTSG GL FHV GSRH NZGVIRZO RM HFKKLIG LU RGH KILTIZN.
     HRTMRURXZMGOB, GSRH ZIIZMTVNVMG LUUVIH Z KLGVMGRZO XLLKVIZGREV
     NLWVO ULI DLIPRMT DRGS LGSVI KILUVHHRLMZO HLXRVGRVH RM ZTIRXFOGFIV
     GL GIB GL WL GSV HZNV GSRMTKFG GSV QLFIMZOH LU KZIGRXFOZI RMGVIVHG
     GL ZTIRXFOGFIV IVHVZIXS RMGL VOVXGILMRX ULIN.

     2 ZM VCGVMHRLM LU GSV VZIORVI KILWFXG LM ZJFZXFOGFIV.

     3 GSV TVLITV DZHSRMTGLM XZIEVI KZKVIHZ QLRMG KILQVXG DRGS
     GFHPVTVV FMREVIHRGB GL HXZM ZMW XLMEVIG UILN NRXILURON HLNV 3,500
     RNZTVH LU XZIEVIH KZKVIH, OVGGVIH, ZMW WIZDRMTH.

RG DZH ZMGRXRKZGVW GSZG ZOO LU GSVHV KILWFXGH DLFOW ZKKVZI ML NLIV GSZM
HRC NLMGSH ZUGVI GSV DLIPHSLK.

                                 


ARWZI  Z HVKZIZGV ZIVMZ ULI HXZMMRMT  HGVKH RM XIVZGRMT Z WZGZYZHV 
RNZTV XZKGFIV, DRGS ZMW DRGSLFG KVIULINRMT LXI  PVBRMT RM GIZXPRMT WZGZ
 HXZMMRMT, DRGS VOVXGILMRX ZMW NZMFZO GIZXPRMT  ZWQFHGNVMGH WFIRMT
HXZMMRMT KILXVHH  HXZMMRMT IVHLOFGRLMH  XLNKIVHHRLM  WVHPVDRMT ZMW
UROGVIRMT  RNZTV XZKGFIV UILN NRXILULIN:  GSV KZKVIH ZMW OVGGVIH LU
TVLITV DZHSRMTGLM XZIEVI  VJFRKNVMG FHVW ULI Z HXZMMRMT HBHGVN 


QFWRGS ARWZI, XLLIWRMZGLI, MZGRLMZO ZTIRXFOGFIZO GVCG WRTRGRARMT KILTIZN
MZGWK, MZGRLMZO ZTIRXFOGFIZO ORYIZIB MZO, ROOFHGIZGVW GSV GVXSMRXZO
WVGZROH LU MZGWK, RMXOFWRMT SVI KIRNZIB IVHKLMHRYRORGB, HXZMMRMT ZMW
XIVZGRMT WZGZYZHVH LM Z GLKRX ZMW KFGGRMT GSVN LM XWILN.

ARWZI IVNZIPVW Z HVKZIZGV ZIVMZ UILN GSV XWILN KILQVXGH, ZOGSLFTS GSV
KILXVHHRMT LU GSV NZGVIRZO RH MVZIOB RWVMGRXZO, RM DSRXS MZGWK RH ZOHL
HXZMMRMT NZGVIRZO ZMW OLZWRMT RG LM Z MVCG NRXILXLNKFGVI, DSRXS RM GFIM
RH ORMPVW GL MZOH RMGVTIZGVW ORYIZIB HBHGVN.  GSFH, HVZIXSVH RM MZOH
YRYORLTIZKSRX WZGZYZHV DROO VMZYOV KVLKOV GL KFOO FK ZXGFZO KZTV RNZTVH
ZMW GVCG ULI ZMB WLXFNVMGH GSZG SZEV YVVM VMGVIVW.

RM ZXXLIWZMXV DRGS GSV HVHHRLMH GLKRX, ARWZI ULXFHVW SVI ROOFHGIZGVW
GZOP LM RNZTV XZKGFIV, LUUVIRMT Z KIRNVI LM GSV GSIVV NZRM HGVKH RM GSV
KILXVHH:  1 ZHHVNYOV GSV KIRMGVW KFYORXZGRLMH 2 WVHRTM GSV WZGZYZHV
WZGZYZHV WVHRTM LXXFIH RM GSV KILXVHH LU KIVKZIRMT GSV NZGVIRZO ULI
HXZMMRMT GSRH HGVK VMGZROH IVERVDRMT ZMW LITZMRARMT GSV NZGVIRZO,
WVURMRMT GSV XLMGVMGHDSZG DROO XLMHGRGFGV Z IVXLIW, DSZG PRMWH LU
URVOWH DROO YV XZKGFIVW RM GVINH LU ZFGSLI, GRGOV, VGX. 3 KVIULIN Z
XVIGZRM ZNLFMG LU NZIPFK LM GSV KZKVI KFYORXZGRLMH.  MZO KVIULINH GSRH
GZHP IVXLIW YB IVXLIW, KIVKZIRMT DLIP HSVVGH LI HLNV LGSVI HLIG LU
GIZXPRMT NZGVIRZO ZMW WVHRTMRMT WVHXIRKGLIH ZMW LGSVI VMSZMXVNVMGH GL YV
ZWWVW GL GSV WZGZ GSZG DROO MLG YV XZKGFIVW UILN GSV KIRMGVW KFYORXZGRLM.
KZIG LU GSRH KILXVHH ZOHL RMELOEVH WVGVINRMRMT MZGWKH UROV ZMW WRIVXGLIB
HGIFXGFIV:  MZGWK ZGGVNKGH GL ZELRW KFGGRMT NLIV GSZM ZKKILCRNZGVOB 100
RNZTVH RM Z WRIVXGLIB, YVXZFHV KOZXRMT NLIV GSZM GSZG LM Z XWILN DLFOW
IVWFXV GSV ZXXVHH HKVVW.

GSRH FKUILMG KILXVHH GZPVH ZKKILCRNZGVOB GDL DVVPH ULI Z
6,0007,000KZTV WZGZYZHV.  GSV MVCG HGVK RH GL XZKGFIV GSV KZTV RNZTVH.
SLD OLMT GSRH KILXVHH GZPVH RH WVGVINRMVW YB GSV WVXRHRLM DSVGSVI LI MLG
GL KVIULIN LXI.  MLG KVIULINRMT LXI HKVVWH GSV KILXVHH, DSVIVZH GVCG
XZKGFIV IVJFRIVH TIVZGVI XZIV YVXZFHV LU GSV JFZORGB LU GSV RNZTV:  RG
SZH GL YV HGIZRTSGVI ZMW ZOOLDZMXV NFHG YV NZWV ULI GVCG LM Z KZTV, MLG
QFHG ULI GSV XZKGFIV LU KSLGLTIZKSH.

MZGWK PVBH RM GIZXPRMT WZGZ, GSZG RH, Z HGZMWZIW YRYORLTIZKSRX IVXLIW
RMXOFWRMT GSV GRGOV LU GSV YLLP ZMW GSV GRGOV LU GSV XSZKGVI, DSRXS DROO
OZGVI VRGSVI YVXLNV GSV ZXXVHH RMULINZGRLM LI DROO YV ZGGZXSVW GL GSV
UILMG LU Z UFOOGVCG IVXLIW HL GSZG RG RH HVZIXSZYOV.

RNZTVH ZIV HXZMMVW UILN Z YLFMW LI FMYLFMW KFYORXZGRLM, XSRVUOB UILN
YLFMW KFYORXZGRLMH RM GSV XZHV LU MZGWK, SLDVEVI, YVXZFHV LUGVM GSVB ZIV
GSV LMOB XLKRVH ZMW GSV KFYORXZGRLMH ZIV IVGFIMVW GL GSV HSVOEVH.  MZGWK
FHFZOOB HXZMH LMV IVXLIW ZG Z GRNV, YVXZFHV RGH WZGZYZHV GIZXPRMT HBHGVN
GIZXPH GSV WLXFNVMG RM GSZG DZB ZMW WLVH MLG IVJFRIV UFIGSVI OLTRXZO
HVKZIZGRMT LU GSV RNZTVH.  ZUGVI KVIULINRMT LKGRXZO XSZIZXGVI
IVXLTMRGRLM, MZGWK NLEVH GSV RNZTVH LUU GSV SZIW WRHP ZMW NZRMGZRMH Z
ELOFNV HSVVG.  GSLFTS GSV HBHGVN GIZXPH VOVXGILMRXZOOB, ZOO GSV
KILXVHHRMT HGVKH ZIV ZOHL GIZXPVW NZMFZOOB DRGS Z OLT HSVVG.

ARWZI MVCG ROOFHGIZGVW GSV PRMWH LU ZWQFHGNVMGH GSZG LMV XZM NZPV DSVM
HXZMMRMT UILN KZKVI ZMW NRXILURON, ULI VCZNKOV, IVWLRMT RNZTVH GSZG MVVW
HKVXRZO SZMWORMT, HVGGRMT ULI WRGSVIRMT LI TIZB HXZOV, ZMW ZWQFHGRMT ULI
YIRTSGMVHH LI ULI GSV DSLOV YLLP ZG LMV GRNV.

MZGWK RH HXZMMRMT ZG 300 WLGH KVI RMXS, Z HGZMWZIW HXZMMRMT IVHLOFGRLM.
GSLFTS ZWVJFZGV ULI XZKGFIRMT GVCG GSZG RH ZOO LU Z HGZMWZIW HRAV, 300
WKR RH FMHFRGZYOV ULI ZMB PRMW LU KSLGLTIZKSRX NZGVIRZO LI ULI EVIB HNZOO
GVCG.  NZMB HXZMMVIH ZOOLD ULI WRUUVIVMG RNZTV ULINZGH, GRUU, LU XLFIHV,
YVRMT Z WV UZXGL HGZMWZIW.  YFG RU LMV RMGVMWH GL VCXSZMTV RNZTVH DRGS
LGSVI KVLKOV, GSV ZYRORGB GL HXZM LGSVI RNZTV ULINZGH, VEVM RU GSVB ZIV
OVHH XLNNLM, YVXLNVH SRTSOB WVHRIZYOV.

XXRGG TILFK 4 RH GSV HGZMWZIW XLNKIVHHRLM ULI MLINZO YOZXPZMWDSRGV
RNZTVH, QKVT ULI TIZB HXZOV LI XLOLI.   ARWZI IVXLNNVMWVW 1 FHRMT GSV
HGZMWZIW XLNKIVHHRLMH, KZIGRXFOZIOB RU LMV ZGGVNKGH GL NZPV NZGVIRZO
ZEZROZYOV ZMW GL ZOOLD FHVIH GL WLDMOLZW RNZTVH ZMW IVFHV GSVN UILN
XWILNH ZMW 2 NZRMGZRMRMT GSV ZYRORGB GL LFGKFG ZM FMXLNKIVHHVW RNZTV,
YVXZFHV RM RNZTV VCXSZMTV FMXLNKIVHHVW RNZTVH ZIV NLIV ORPVOB GL YV ZYOV
GL XILHH KOZGULINH.

ARWZI VNKSZHRAVW GSV RNKLIGZMXV LU WVHPVDRMT ZMW UROGVIRMT ZH
IVJFRIVNVMGH LM MZGWKH FKTIZWVW HBHGVN.  ULI RMHGZMXV, HXZMMRMT YLFMW
YLLPH, KZIGRXFOZIOB YLLPH KFYORHSVW YB GSV UVWVIZO TLEVIMNVMG DSLHV KZTVH
ZIV HPVDVW, ZMW GIBRMT GL HXZM GSVN HGIZRTSG RU LXI RH GL YV KVIULINVW,
RH VCGIVNVOB GRNVXLMHFNRMT.  GSV HZNV SLOWH ULI UROGVIRMT LU
KLLIJFZORGB LI LOWVI NZGVIRZOH.

ARWZI WVHXIRYVW RNZTV XZKGFIV UILN NRXILULIN, FHRMT ZH ZM VCZNKOV GSIVV
IVVOH UILN Z HRCGBHVEVMIVVO HVG LU GSV KZKVIH ZMW OVGGVIH LU TVLITV
DZHSRMTGLM XZIEVI GSZG SZW YVVM KILWFXVW YB GFHPVTVV FMREVIHRGB.  GSVHV
IVHFOGVW RM ZKKILCRNZGVOB 3,500 RNZTVH, DSRXS MZGWK SZW SZW HXZMMVW YB
RGH HVIERXV XLMGIZXGLI, HXRVMXV ZKKORXZGRLMH RMGVIMZGRLMZO XLIKLIZGRLM
HZRX.  MZGWK ZOHL XIVZGVW YRYORLTIZKSRX IVXLIWH ULI ZXXVHH.  MZGWK WRW
MLG SZEV HFXS HKVXRZORAVW VJFRKNVMG ZH Z NRXILURON HXZMMVI.

FMULIGFMZGVOB, GSV KILXVHH LU HXZMMRMT UILN NRXILURON DZH MLG ZM
FMJFZORURVW HFXXVHH, ARWZI IVKLIGVW:  YVXZFHV NRXILURON UIZNV HRAVH EZIB,
LXXZHRLMZOOB HLNV UIZNVH DVIV NRHHVW, DSRXS DRGSLFG HKVMWRMT NFXS GRNV
ZMW NLMVB XLFOW MLG YV IVXZKGFIVW.

LXI XLFOW MLG YV KVIULINVW UILN GSV HXZMMVW RNZTVH LU GSV UIZNVH.  GSV
YOVVWRMT RM GSV GVCG HRNKOB LFGKFG GVCG, DSVM LXI DZH IFM, GSZG XLFOW MLG
VEVM YV VWRGVW.  MZGWK GVHGVW ULI MVTZGREV EVIHFH KLHRGREV RNZTVH,
OZMWHXZKV EVIHFH KLIGIZRG LIRVMGZGRLM, ZMW HRMTOV EVIHFH WFZOKZTV
NRXILURON, MLMV LU DSRXS HVVNVW GL ZUUVXG GSV JFZORGB LU GSV RNZTV YFG
ZOHL LM MLMV LU GSVN XLFOW LXI YV KVIULINVW.

RM HVOVXGRMT GSV NRXILURON GSVB DLFOW FHV, GSVIVULIV, MZGWK SZW LGSVI
UZXGLIH RM NRMW.  ARWZI MLGVW GDL UZXGLIH GSZG RMUOFVMXVW GSV JFZORGB LU
GSV RNZTVH:  1 GSV RMSVIVMG JFZORGB LU GSV LIRTRMZO ZMW 2 GSV ZNLFMG LU
HRAV IVWFXGRLM LM GSV KZTVH.

GSV XZIEVI KZKVIH DVIV HVOVXGVW YVXZFHV GSVB ZIV RMULINZGREV ZMW ERHFZOOB
RMGVIVHGRMT, GIVZG Z HRMTOV HFYQVXG, ZMW ZIV EZOFZYOV RM GSVRI LDM IRTSG.
GSV RNZTVH DVIV HXZMMVW ZMW WRERWVW RMGL OLTRXZO IVXLIWH YB HZRX, GSVM
WVOREVIVW, ZMW OLZWVW LMGL MZGWKH HBHGVN, DSVIV YRYORLTIZKSRX
RMULINZGRLM GZPVM WRIVXGOB UILN GSV RNZTVH DZH ZWWVW.  HXZMMRMT DZH
XLNKOVGVW RM HFNNVI 1991 ZMW YB GSV VMW LU HFNNVI 1992 GSV WRHP DZH
HXSVWFOVW GL YV KFYORHSVW.

KILYOVNH VMXLFMGVIVW WFIRMT KILXVHHRMT RMXOFWVW GSV ULOOLDRMT:  YVXZFHV
GSV NRXILURON HXZMMRMT SZW GL YV WLMV RM Z YZGXS, ZWQFHGNVMG ULI
RMWRERWFZO KZTV EZIRZGRLMH DZH MLG KLHHRYOV.  GSV UIZNV HRAV EZIRVW LM
ZXXLFMG LU GSV MZGFIV LU GSV NZGVIRZO, ZMW GSVIVULIV HLNV LU GSV UIZNVH
DVIV NRHHVW DSROV LGSVIH DVIV QFHG KZIGRZO UIZNVH.  GSV LMOB DZB GL TL
YZXP ZMW XZKGFIV GSRH NZGVIRZO DZH GL KIRMG LFG GSV KZTV DRGS GSV
NRXILURON IVZWVI UILN GSV NRHHRMT UIZNV ZMW GSVM HXZM RG RM UILN GSV
KZTV, DSRXS DZH VCGIVNVOB GRNVXLMHFNRMT.  GSV JFZORGB LU GSV RNZTVH
HXZMMVW UILN GSV KIRMGLFG LU GSV NRXILURON XLNKZIVW FMUZELIZYOB DRGS GSZG
LU GSV LIRTRMZO RNZTVH XZKGFIVW WRIVXGOB UILN GSV NRXILURON.  GSV
RMZYRORGB GL KVIULIN LXI ZOHL DZH Z NZQLI WRHZKKLRMGNVMG.  ZG GSV GRNV,
XLNKFGVI LFGKFG NRXILURON DZH FMZEZROZYOV GL GVHG.

