In regard to the decision to produce and publish PLD, the editorial board
offered direct judgments on the question of appropriateness of these
texts for conversion, their encoding and their distribution, and
concluded that the best possible project was one that avoided overt
intrusions or exclusions in so important a resource.  Thus, the general
decision to transmit the original collection as clearly as possible with
the widest possible avenues for use led to other decisions:  1 To encode
the data or not, SGML or not, TEI or not.  Again, the expected user
community asserted the need for normative tagging structures of important
humanities texts, and the TEI seemed the most appropriate structure for
that purpose.  Research librarians, who are trained to view the larger
impact of electronic text sources on 80 or 90 or 100 doctoral
disciplines, loudly approved the decision to include tagging.  They see
what is coming better than the specialist who is completely focused on
one edition of Ambroses De Anima, and they also understand that the
potential uses exceed present expectations.  2 What will be tagged and
what will not.  Once again, the board realized that one must tag the
obvious.  But in no way should one attempt to identify through encoding
schemes every single discrete area of a text that might someday be
searched.  That was another decision.  Searching by a column number, an
author, a word, a volume, permitting combination searches, and tagging
notations seemed logical choices as core elements.  3 How does one make
the data available?  Tieing it to a CDROM edition creates limitations,
but a magnetic tape file that is very large, is accompanied by the
encoding specifications, and that allows one to make local modifications
also allows one to incorporate any changes one may desire within the
bounds of private research, though exporting tag files from a CDROM
could serve just as well.  Since no one on the board could possibly
anticipate each and every way in which a scholar might choose to mine
this data bank, it was decided to satisfy the basics and make some
provisions for what might come.  4 Not to encode the database would rob
it of the interchangeability and portability these important texts should
accommodate.  For CALALUCA, the extensive options presented by fulltext
searching require care in text selection and strongly support encoding of
data to facilitate the widest possible search strategies.  Better
software can always be created, but summoning the resources, the people,
and the energy to reconvert the text is another matter.

PLD is being encoded, captured, and distributed, because to
ChadwyckHealey and the board it offers the widest possible array of
future research applications that can be seen today.  CALALUCA concluded
by urging the encoding of all important text sources in whatever way
seems most appropriate and durable at the time, without blanching at the
thought that ones work may require emendation in the future.  Thus,
ChadwyckHealey produced a very large humanities text database before the
final release of the TEI Guidelines.

                                 


DISCUSSION  Creating texts with markup advocated  Trends in encoding 
The TEI and the issue of interchangeability of standards  A
misconception concerning the TEI  Implications for an institution like
LC in the event that a multiplicity of DTDs develops  Producing images
as a first step towards possible conversion to full text through
character recognition  The AAP tag sets as a common starting point and
the need for caution 


HOCKEY prefaced the discussion that followed with several comments in
favor of creating texts with markup and on trends in encoding.  In the
future, when many more texts are available for online searching, real
problems in finding what is wanted will develop, if one is faced with
millions of words of data.  It therefore becomes important to consider
putting markup in texts to help searchers home in on the actual things
they wish to retrieve.  Various approaches to refining retrieval methods
toward this end include building on a computer version of a dictionary
and letting the computer look up words in it to obtain more information
about the semantic structure or semantic field of a word, its grammatical
structure, and syntactic structure.

HOCKEY commented on the present keen interest in the encoding world
in creating:  1 machinereadable versions of dictionaries that can be
initially tagged in SGML, which gives a structure to the dictionary entry
these entries can then be converted into a more rigid or otherwise
different database structure inside the computer, which can be treated as
a dynamic tool for searching mechanisms 2 large bodies of text to study
the language.  In order to incorporate more sophisticated mechanisms,
more about how words behave needs to be known, which can be learned in
part from information in dictionaries.  However, the last ten years have
seen much interest in studying the structure of printed dictionaries
converted into computerreadable form.  The information one derives about
many words from those is only partial, one or two definitions of the
common or the usual meaning of a word, and then numerous definitions of
unusual usages.  If the computer is using a dictionary to help retrieve
words in a text, it needs much more information about the common usages,
because those are the ones that occur over and over again.  Hence the
current interest in developing large bodies of text in computerreadable
form in order to study the language.  Several projects are engaged in
compiling, for example, 100 million words. HOCKEY described one with
which she was associated briefly at Oxford University involving
compilation of 100 million words of British English:  about 10 percent of
that will contain detailed linguistic tagging encoded in SGML it will
have word class taggings, with words identified as nouns, verbs,
adjectives, or other parts of speech.  This tagging can then be used by
programs which will begin to learn a bit more about the structure of the
language, and then, can go to tag more text.

HOCKEY said that the more that is tagged accurately, the more one can
refine the tagging process and thus the bigger body of text one can build
up with linguistic tagging incorporated into it.  Hence, the more tagging
or annotation there is in the text, the more one may begin to learn about
language and the more it will help accomplish more intelligent OCR.  She
recommended the development of software tools that will help one begin to
understand more about a text, which can then be applied to scanning
images of that text in that format and to using more intelligence to help
one interpret or understand the text.

HOCKEY posited the need to think about common methods of textencoding
for a long time to come, because building these large bodies of text is
extremely expensive and will only be done once.

In the more general discussion on approaches to encoding that followed,
these points were made:

BESSER identified the underlying problem with standards that all have to
struggle with in adopting a standard, namely, the tension between a very
highly defined standard that is very interchangeable but does not work
for everyone because something is lacking, and a standard that is less
defined, more open, more adaptable, but less interchangeable.  Contending
that the way in which people use SGML is not sufficiently defined, BESSER
wondered 1 if people resist the TEI because they think it is too defined
in certain things they do not fit into, and 2 how progress with
interchangeability can be made without frightening people away.

SPERBERGMcQUEEN replied that the published drafts of the TEI had met
with surprisingly little objection on the grounds that they do not allow
one to handle X or Y or Z.  Particular concerns of the affiliated
projects have led, in practice, to discussions of how extensions are to
be made the primary concern of any project has to be how it can be
represented locally, thus making interchange secondary.  The TEI has
received much criticism based on the notion that everything in it is
required or even recommended, which, as it happens, is a misconception
from the beginning,   because none of it is required and very little is
actually actively recommended for all cases, except that one document
ones source.

SPERBERGMcQUEEN agreed with BESSER about this tradeoff:  all the
projects in a set of twenty TEIconformant projects will not necessarily
tag the material in the same way.  One result of the TEI will be that the
easiest problems will be solvedthose dealing with the external form of
the information but the problem that is hardest in interchange is that
one is not encoding what another wants, and vice versa.  Thus, after
the adoption of a common notation, the differences in the underlying
conceptions of what is interesting about texts become more visible.
The success of a standard like the TEI will lie in the ability of
the recipient of interchanged texts to use some of what it contains
and to add the information that was not encoded that one wants, in a
layered way, so that texts can be gradually enriched and one does not
have to put in everything all at once.  Hence, having a wellbehaved
markup scheme is important.

STEVENS followed up on the paradoxical analogy that BESSER alluded to in
the example of the MARC records, namely, the formats that are the same
except that they are different.  STEVENS drew a parallel between
documenttype definitions and MARC records for books and serials and maps,
where one has a tagging structure and there is a textinterchange.
STEVENS opined that the producers of the information will set the terms
for the standard i.e., develop documenttype definitions for the users
of their products, creating a situation that will be problematical for
an institution like the Library of Congress, which will have to deal with
the DTDs in the event that a multiplicity of them develops.  Thus,
numerous people are seeking a standard but cannot find the tag set that
will be acceptable to them and their clients.  SPERBERGMcQUEEN agreed
with this view, and said that the situation was in a way worse:  attempting
to unify arbitrary DTDs resembled attempting to unify a MARC record with a
bibliographic record done according to the Prussian instructions.
According to STEVENS, this situation occurred very early in the process.

WATERS recalled from early discussions on Project Open Book the concern
of many people that merely by producing images, POB was not really
enhancing intellectual access to the material.  Nevertheless, not wishing
to overemphasize the opposition between imaging and full text, WATERS
stated that POB views getting the images as a first step toward possibly
converting to full text through character recognition, if the technology
is appropriate.  WATERS also emphasized that encoding is involved even
with a set of images.

SPERBERGMcQUEEN agreed with WATERS that one can create an SGML document
consisting wholly of images.  At first sight, organizing graphic images
with an SGML document may not seem to offer great advantages, but the
advantages of the scheme WATERS described would be precisely that
ability to move into something that is more of a multimedia document:
a combination of transcribed text and page images.  WEIBEL concurred in
this judgment, offering evidence from Project ADAPT, where a page is
divided into text elements and graphic elements, and in fact the text
elements are organized by columns and lines.  These lines may be used as
the basis for distributing documents in a network environment.  As one
develops software intelligent enough to recognize what those elements
are, it makes sense to apply SGML to an image initially, that may, in
fact, ultimately become more and more text, either through OCR or edited
OCR or even just through keying.  For WATERS, the labor of composing the
document and saying this set of documents or this set of images belongs
to this document constitutes a significant investment.

WEIBEL also made the point that the AAP tag sets, while not excessively
prescriptive, offer a common starting point they do not define the
structure of the documents, though.  They have some recommendations about
DTDs one could use as examples, but they do just suggest tag sets.   For
example, the CORE project attempts to use the AAP markup as much as
possible, but there are clearly areas where structure must be added.
That in no way contradicts the use of AAP tag sets.

SPERBERGMcQUEEN noted that the TEI prepared a long working paper early
on about the AAP tag set and what it lacked that the TEI thought it
needed, and a fairly long critique of the naming conventions, which has
led to a very different style of naming in the TEI.  He stressed the
importance of the opposition between prescriptive markup, the kind that a
publisher or anybody can do when producing documents de novo, and
descriptive markup, in which one has to take what the text carrier
provides.  In these particular tag sets it is easy to overemphasize this
opposition, because the AAP tag set is extremely flexible.  Even if one
just used the DTDs, they allow almost anything to appear almost anywhere.

                                 

SESSION VI.  COPYRIGHT ISSUES


PETERS  Several cautions concerning copyright in an electronic
environment  Review of copyright law in the United States  The notion
of the public good and the desirability of incentives to promote it 
What copyright protects  Works not protected by copyright  The rights
of copyright holders  Publishers concerns in todays electronic
environment  Compulsory licenses  The price of copyright in a digital
medium and the need for cooperation  Additional clarifications   Rough
justice oftentimes the outcome in numerous copyright matters  Copyright
in an electronic society  Copyright law always only sets up the
boundaries anything can be changed by contract 


Marybeth PETERS, policy planning adviser to the Register of Copyrights,
Library of Congress,   made several general comments and then opened the
floor to discussion of subjects of interest to the audience.

Having attended several sessions in an effort to gain a sense of what
people did and where copyright would affect their lives, PETERS expressed
the following cautions:

      If one takes and converts materials and puts them in new forms,
     then, from a copyright point of view, one is creating something and
     will receive some rights.

      However, if what one is converting already exists, a question
     immediately arises about the status of the materials in question.

      Putting something in the public domain in the United States offers
     some freedom from anxiety, but distributing it throughout the world
     on a network is another matter, even if one has put it in the public
     domain in the United States.  Re foreign laws, very frequently a
     work can be in the public domain in the United States but protected
     in other countries.  Thus, one must consider all of the places a
     work may reach, lest one unwittingly become liable to being faced
     with a suit for copyright infringement, or at least a letter
     demanding discussion of what one is doing.

PETERS reviewed copyright law in the United States.  The U.S.
Constitution effectively states that Congress has the power to enact
copyright laws for two purposes:  1 to encourage the creation and
dissemination of intellectual works for the good of society as a whole
and, significantly, 2 to give creators and those who package and
disseminate materials the economic rewards that are due them.

Congress strives to strike a balance, which at times can become an
emotional issue.  The United States has never accepted the notion of the
natural right of an author so much as it has accepted the notion of the
public good and the desirability of incentives to promote it.  This state
of affairs, however, has created strains on the international level and
is the reason for several of the differences in the laws that we have.
Today the United States protects almost every kind of work that can be
called an expression of an author.  The standard for gaining copyright
protection is simply originality.  This is a low standard and means that
a work is not copied from something else, as well as shows a certain
minimal amount of authorship.  One can also acquire copyright protection
for making a new version of preexisting material, provided it manifests
some spark of creativity.

However, copyright does not protect ideas, methods, systemsonly the way
that one expresses those things.  Nor does copyright protect anything
that is mechanical, anything that does not involve choice, or criteria
concerning whether or not one should do a thing.  For example, the
results of a process called declicking, in which one mechanically removes
impure sounds from old recordings, are not copyrightable.  On the other
hand, the choice to record a song digitally and to increase the sound of
violins or to bring up the tympani constitutes the results of conversion
that are copyrightable.  Moreover, if a work is protected by copyright in
the United States, one generally needs the permission of the copyright
owner to convert it.  Normally, who will own the newthat is, converted
material is a matter of contract.  In the absence of a contract, the
person who creates the new material is the author and owner.  But people
do not generally think about the copyright implications until after the
fact.  PETERS stressed the need when dealing with copyrighted works to
think about copyright in advance.  Ones bargaining power is much greater
up front than it is down the road.

PETERS next discussed works not protected by copyright, for example, any
work done by a federal employee as part of his or her official duties is
in the public domain in the United States.  The issue is not wholly free
of doubt concerning whether or not the work is in the public domain
outside the United States.  Other materials in the public domain include:
any works published more than seventyfive years ago, and any work
published in the United States more than twentyeight years ago, whose
copyright was not renewed.  In talking about the new technology and
putting material in a digital form to send all over the world, PETERS
cautioned, one must keep in mind that while the rights may not be an
issue in the United States, they may be in different parts of the world,
where most countries previously employed a copyright term of the life of
the author plus fifty years.

PETERS next reviewed the economics of copyright holding.  Simply,
economic rights are the rights to control the reproduction of a work in
any form.  They belong to the author, or in the case of a work made for
hire, the employer.  The second right, which is critical to conversion,
is the right to change a work.  The right to make new versions is perhaps
one of the most significant rights of authors, particularly in an
electronic world.  The third IRTSG RH GSV IRTSG GL KFYORHS GSV DLIP ZMW
GSV IRTSG GL WRHHVNRMZGV RG, HLNVGSRMT GSZG VEVIBLMV DSL WVZOH RM ZM
VOVXGILMRX NVWRFN MVVWH GL PMLD.  GSV YZHRX IFOV RH RU Z XLKB RH HLOW,
ZOO IRTSGH LU WRHGIRYFGRLM ZIV VCGRMTFRHSVW DRGS GSV HZOV LU GSZG XLKB.
GSV PVB RH GSZG RG NFHG YV HLOW.  Z MFNYVI LU XLNKZMRVH LEVIXLNV GSRH
LYHGZXOV YB OVZHRMT LI IVMGRMT GSVRI KILWFXG.  GSVHV XLNKZMRVH ZITFV GSZG
RU GSV NZGVIRZO RH IVMGVW LI OVZHVW ZMW MLG HLOW, GSVB XLMGILO GSV FHVH
LU Z DLIP.  GSV ULFIGS IRTSG, ZMW LMV EVIB RNKLIGZMG RM Z WRTRGZO DLIOW,
RH Z IRTSG LU KFYORX KVIULINZMXV, DSRXS NVZMH GSV IRTSG GL HSLD GSV DLIP
HVJFVMGRZOOB.  ULI VCZNKOV, XLKBIRTSG LDMVIH XLMGILO GSV HSLDRMT LU Z
XWILN KILWFXG RM Z KFYORX KOZXV HFXS ZH Z KFYORX ORYIZIB.  GSV IVEVIHV
HRWV LU KFYORX KVIULINZMXV RH HLNVGSRMT XZOOVW GSV IRTSG LU KFYORX
WRHKOZB.  NLIZO IRTSGH ZOHL VCRHG, DSRXS ZG GSV UVWVIZO OVEVO ZKKOB LMOB
GL EVIB ORNRGVW ERHFZO DLIPH LU ZIG, YFG RM GSVLIB NZB ZKKOB FMWVI
XLMGIZXG ZMW LGSVI KIRMXRKOVH.  NLIZO IRTSGH NZB RMXOFWV GSV IRTSG LU ZM
ZFGSLI GL SZEV SRH LI SVI MZNV LM Z DLIP, GSV IRTSG LU ZGGIRYFGRLM, ZMW
GSV IRTSG GL LYQVXG GL WRHGLIGRLM LI NFGROZGRLMGSV IRTSG LU RMGVTIRGB.

GSV DZB XLKBIRTSG OZD RH DLIWVW TREVH NFXS OZGRGFWV GL ZXGRERGRVH HFXS ZH
KIVHVIEZGRLM GL FHV LU NZGVIRZO ULI HXSLOZIOB ZMW IVHVZIXS KFIKLHVH DSVM
GSV FHVI WLVH MLG NZPV NFOGRKOV XLKRVH ZMW GL GSV TVMVIZGRLM LU
UZXHRNROV XLKRVH LU FMKFYORHSVW DLIPH YB ORYIZIRVH ULI GSVNHVOEVH ZMW
LGSVI ORYIZIRVH.  YFG GSV OZD WLVH MLG ZOOLD ZMBLMV GL YVXLNV GSV
WRHGIRYFGLI LU GSV KILWFXG ULI GSV VMGRIV DLIOW.  RM GLWZBH VOVXGILMRX
VMERILMNVMG, KFYORHSVIH ZIV VCGIVNVOB XLMXVIMVW GSZG GSV VMGRIV DLIOW RH
MVGDLIPVW ZMW XZM LYGZRM GSV RMULINZGRLM WVHRIVW UILN Z HRMTOV XLKB RM Z
HRMTOV ORYIZIB.  SVMXV, RU GSVIV RH GL YV LMOB LMV HZOV, DSRXS KFYORHSVIH
NZB XSLLHV GL OREV DRGS, GSVB DROO LYGZRM GSVRI NLMVB RM LGSVI DZBH, ULI
VCZNKOV, UILN ZXXVHH ZMW FHV.  SVMXV, GSV WVEVOLKNVMG LU HRGV ORXVMHVH
ZMW LGSVI PRMWH LU ZTIVVNVMGH GL XLEVI DSZG KFYORHSVIH YVORVEV GSVB
HSLFOW YV XLNKVMHZGVW ULI.  ZMB HLOFGRLM GSZG GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH GZPVH
GLWZB SZH GL XLMHRWVI GSV RMGVIMZGRLMZO ZIVMZ.

MLGRMT GSZG GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH RH Z NVNYVI LU GSV YVIMV XLMEVMGRLM ZMW
HFYHXIRYVH GL RGH KILERHRLMH, KVGVIH WVHXIRYVW GSV KVINRHHRLMH KILXVHH.
HSV ZOHL WVURMVW XLNKFOHLIB ORXVMHVH.  Z XLNKFOHLIB ORXVMHV, LU DSRXS GSV
FMRGVW HGZGVH SZH SZW Z UVD, YFROWH RMGL GSV OZD GSV IRTSG GL FHV Z DLIP
HFYQVXG GL XVIGZRM GVINH ZMW XLMWRGRLMH.  RM GSV RMGVIMZGRLMZO ZIVMZ,
SLDVEVI, GSV ZYRORGB GL FHV XLNKFOHLIB ORXVMHVH RH VCGIVNVOB ORNRGVW.
GSFH, XOVZIRMTSLFHVH ZMW LGSVI XLOOVXGREVH XLNKIRHV LMV LKGRLM GSZG SZH
HFXXVVWVW RM KILERWRMT ULI FHV LU Z DLIP.  LUGVM LEVIOLLPVW DSVM LMV
YVTRMH GL FHV XLKBIRTSGVW NZGVIRZO ZMW KFG KILWFXGH GLTVGSVI RH SLD
VCKVMHREV GSV KVINRHHRLMH KILXVHH ZMW NZMZTRMT RG RH.  ZXXLIWRMT GL
KVGVIH, GSV KIRXV LU XLKBIRTSG RM Z WRTRGZO NVWRFN, DSZGVEVI HLOFGRLM RH
DLIPVW LFG, DROO RMXOFWV NZMZTRMT ZMW ZHHVNYORMT GSV WZGZYZHV.  HSV
HGILMTOB IVXLNNVMWVW GSZG KFYORHSVIH ZMW ORYIZIRZMH LI KVLKOV DRGS
EZIRLFH YZXPTILFMWH XLLKVIZGV GL DLIP LFG ZWNRMRHGIZGREVOB UVZHRYOV
HBHGVNH, RM LIWVI GL KILWFXV YVGGVI IVHFOGH.

RM GSV OVMTGSB JFVHGRLMZMWZMHDVI KVIRLW GSZG ULOOLDVW KVGVIHH
KIVHVMGZGRLM, GSV ULOOLDRMT KLRMGH VNVITVW:

      GSV XLKBIRTSG LUURXV NZRMGZRMH GSZG ZMBGSRMT NVXSZMRXZO ZMW
     GLGZOOB VCSZFHGREV KILYZYOB RH MLG KILGVXGVW.  RM GSV VEVMG GSZG
     DSZG ZM RMWRERWFZO WRW RM WVEVOLKRMT KLGVMGRZOOB XLKBIRTSGZYOV
     NZGVIRZO RH MLG FMWVIHGLLW, GSV XLKBIRTSG LUURXV DROO ZHP ZYLFG GSV
     XIVZGREV XSLRXVH GSV ZKKORXZMG XSLHV GL NZPV LI MLG GL NZPV.  ZH Z
     KIZXGRXZO NZGGVI, RU LMV YVORVEVH HSV LI SV SZH NZWV VMLFTS LU GSLHV
     XSLRXVH, GSZG KVIHLM SZH Z IRTSG GL ZHHVIG Z XLKBIRTSG ZMW HLNVLMV
     VOHV NFHG ZHHVIG GSZG GSV DLIP RH MLG XLKBIRTSGZYOV.  GSV NLIV
     NVXSZMRXZO, GSV NLIV ZFGLNZGRX, Z GSRMT RH, GSV OVHH ORPVOB RG RH GL
     YV XLKBIRTSGZYOV.

      MVZIOB ZOO KSLGLTIZKSH ZIV WVVNVW GL YV XLKBIRTSGZYOV, YFG ML LMV
     DLIIRVH ZYLFG GSVN NFXS, YVXZFHV VEVIBLMV RH UIVV GL GZPV GSV HZNV
     RNZTV.  GSFH, Z KSLGLTIZKSRX XLKBIRTSG IVKIVHVMGH DSZG RH XZOOVW Z
     "GSRM" XLKBIRTSG.  GSV KSLGLTIZKS RGHVOU NFHG YV WFKORXZGVW, RM
     LIWVI ULI XLKBIRTSG GL YV ERLOZGVW.

      GSV XLKBIRTSG LUURXV GZPVH GSV KLHRGRLM GSZG CIZBH ZIV MLG
     XLKBIRTSGZYOV YVXZFHV GSVB ZIV NVXSZMRXZO.  RG  XZM YV ZITFVW
     DSVGSVI LI MLG RNZTV VMSZMXVNVMG RM HXZMMRMT XZM YV KILGVXGVW.  LMV
     NFHG VCVIXRHV XZIV DRGS NZGVIRZO XIVZGVW DRGS KFYORX UFMWH ZMW
     TVMVIZOOB RM GSV KFYORX WLNZRM.  ZM ZIGRXOV DIRGGVM YB Z UVWVIZO
     VNKOLBVV, RU DIRGGVM ZH KZIG LU LUURXRZO WFGRVH, RH MLG
     XLKBIRTSGZYOV.  SLDVEVI, XLMGILO LEVI Z HXRVMGRURX ZIGRXOV DIRGGVM
     YB Z MZGRLMZO RMHGRGFGVH LU SVZOGS TIZMGVV R.V., HLNVLMV DSL
     IVXVREVH NLMVB UILN GSV F.H. TLEVIMNVMG, WVKVMWH LM MRS KLORXB.  RU
     GSV TLEVIMNVMG ZTVMXB SZH ML KLORXB ZMW GSZG KLORXB XZM YV
     XLMGZRMVW RM RGH IVTFOZGRLMH, GSV XLMGIZXG, LI GSV TIZMG, GSV
     ZFGSLI IVGZRMH XLKBIRTSG.  RU Z KILERHRLM LU GSV XLMGIZXG, TIZMG, LI
     IVTFOZGRLM HGZGVH GSZG GSVIV DROO YV ML XLKBIRTSG, GSVM RG WLVH MLG
     VCRHG.  DSVM Z DLIP RH XIVZGVW, XLKBIRTSG ZFGLNZGRXZOOB XLNVH RMGL
     VCRHGVMXV FMOVHH HLNVGSRMT VCRHGH GSZG HZBH RG WLVH MLG.

      ZM VMSZMXVW VOVXGILMRX XLKB LU Z KIRMG XLKB LU ZM LOWVI IVUVIVMXV
     DLIP RM GSV KFYORX WLNZRM GSZG WLVH MLG XLMGZRM XLKBIRTSGZYOV MVD
     NZGVIRZO RH Z KFIVOB NVXSZMRXZO IVMWRGRLM LU GSV LIRTRMZO DLIP, ZMW
     RH MLG XLKBIRTSGZYOV.

      FHFZOOB, DSVM Z DLIP VMGVIH GSV KFYORX WLNZRM, MLGSRMT XZM IVNLEV
     RG.  ULI VCZNKOV, XLMTIVHH IVXVMGOB KZHHVW RMGL OZD GSV XLMXVKG LU
     ZFGLNZGRX IVMVDZO, DSRXS NVZMH GSZG XLKBIRTSG LM ZMB DLIP KFYORHSVW
     YVGDVVM O964 ZMW O978 WLVH MLG SZEV GL YV IVMVDVW RM LIWVI GL
     IVXVREV Z HVEVMGBUREVBVZI GVIN.  YFG ZMB DLIP MLG IVMVDVW YVULIV
     1964 RH RM GSV KFYORX WLNZRM.

      XLMXVIMRMT DSVGSVI LI MLG GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH PVVKH GIZXP LU DSVM
     ZFGSLIH WRV, MLGSRMT DZH VEVI WLMV, MLI RH ZMBGSRMT YVRMT WLMV ZG
     GSV NLNVMG YB GSV XLKBIRTSG LUURXV.

      HLUGDZIV GSZG WIREVH Z NVXSZMRXZO KILXVHH RH RGHVOU XLKBIRTSGZYOV.
     RU LMV XSZMTVH KOZGULINH, GSV HLUGDZIV RGHVOU SZH Z XLKBIRTSG.  GSV
     DLIOW RMGVOOVXGFZO KILKVIGB LITZMRAZGRLM DROO SLOW Z HBNKLHRFN 28
     NZIXS GSILFTS 2 ZKIRO O993, ZG SZIEZIW FMREVIHRGB, LM WRTRGZO
     GVXSMLOLTB, ZMW DROO HGFWB GSRH VMGRIV RHHFV.  RU LMV KFIXSZHVH Z
     XLNKFGVI HLUGDZIV KZXPZTV, HFXS ZH NZXKZRMG, ZMW XIVZGVH HLNVGSRMT
     MVD, LMV IVXVREVH KILGVXGRLM LMOB ULI GSZG DSRXS SZH YVVM ZWWVW.

KVGVIH ZWWVW GSZG LUGVM RM XLKBIRTSG NZGGVIH, ILFTS QFHGRXV RH GSV
LFGXLNV, ULI VCZNKOV, RM XLOOVXGREV ORXVMHRMT, ZHXZK R.V., ZNVIRXZM
HLXRVGB LU XLNKLHVIH, ZFGSLIH, ZMW KFYORHSVIH, ZMW YNR R.V., YILZWXZHG
NFHRX, RMX., DSVIV RG NZB HVVN GSZG GSV YRT TFBH IVXVREV NLIV GSZM GSVRI
WFV.  LU XLFIHV, KVLKOV LFTSG MLG GL XLKB Z XIVZGREV KILWFXG DRGSLFG
KZBRMT ULI RG GSVIV HSLFOW YV HLNV XLNKVMHZGRLM.  YFG GSV GIFGS LU GSV
DLIOW, ZMW RG RH MLG Z TIVZG GIFGS, RH GSZG GSV YRT TFB TVGH KOZBVW LM
GSV IZWRL NLIV UIVJFVMGOB GSZM GSV ORGGOV TFB, DSL SZH GL WL NFXS NLIV
FMGRO SV YVXLNVH Z YRT TFB.  GSZG RH GIFV LU VEVIB ZFGSLI, VEVIB
XLNKLHVI, VEVIBLMV, ZMW, FMULIGFMZGVOB, RH KZIG LU ORUV.

XLKBIRTSG ZODZBH LIRTRMZGVH DRGS GSV ZFGSLI, VCXVKG RM XZHVH LU DLIPH
NZWV ULI SRIV.  NLHG HLUGDZIV UZOOH RMGL GSRH XZGVTLIB.  DSVM ZM ZFGSLI
HVMWH SRH ZIGRXOV GL Z QLFIMZO, SV SZH MLG IVORMJFRHSVW XLKBIRTSG, GSLFTS
SV IVGZRMH GSV IRTSG GL IVORMJFRHS RG.  GSV ZFGSLI IVXVREVH ZYHLOFGVOB
VEVIBGSRMT.  GSV OVHH KILNRMVMG GSV ZFGSLI, GSV NLIV OVEVIZTV GSV
KFYORHSVI DROO SZEV RM XLMGIZXG MVTLGRZGRLMH.  RM LIWVI GL GIZMHUVI GSV
IRTSGH, GSV ZFGSLI NFHG HRTM ZM ZTIVVNVMG TRERMT GSVN ZDZB.

RM ZM VOVXGILMRX HLXRVGB, RG RH RNKLIGZMG GL YV ZYOV GL ORXVMHV Z DIRGVI
ZMW DLIP LFG WVZOH.  DRGS IVTZIW GL FHV LU Z DLIP, RG FHFZOOB RH NFXS
VZHRVI DSVM Z KFYORHSVI SLOWH GSV IRTSGH.  RM ZM VOVXGILMRX VIZ, Z IVZO
KILYOVN ZIRHVH DSVM LMV RH WRTRGRARMT ZMW NZPRMT RMULINZGRLM ZEZROZYOV.
KVGVIH IVUVIIVW ZTZRM GL VOVXGILMRX ORXVMHRMT XOVZIRMTSLFHVH.  XLKBIRTSG
LFTSG GL IVNZRM DRGS GSV ZFGSLI, YFG ZH LMV NLEVH ULIDZIW TOLYZOOB RM GSV
VOVXGILMRX ZIVMZ, Z NRWWOVNZM DSL XZM SZMWOV GSV EZIRLFH IRTSGH YVXLNVH
RMXIVZHRMTOB MVXVHHZIB.

GSV MLGRLM LU XLKBIRTSG OZD RH GSZG RG IVHRWVH DRGS GSV RMWRERWFZO, YFG
RM ZM LMORMV VMERILMNVMG, DSVIV Z DLIP XZM YV ZWZKGVW ZMW GRMPVIVW DRGS
YB NZMB RMWRERWFZOH, GSVIV RH XLMXVIM.  RU XSZMTVH ZIV ZFGSLIRAVW ZMW
GSVIV RH ML ZTIVVNVMG GL GSV XLMGIZIB, GSV KVIHLM DSL XSZMTVH Z DLIP LDMH
GSV XSZMTVH.  GL KFG RG ZMLGSVI DZB, GSV KVIHLM DSL ZXJFRIVH KVINRHHRLM
GL XSZMTV Z DLIP GVXSMRXZOOB DROO YVXLNV GSV ZFGSLI ZMW GSV LDMVI, FMOVHH
HLNV ZTIVVNVMG GL GSV XLMGIZIB SZH YVVM NZWV.  RG RH GBKRXZO ULI GSV
LIRTRMZO KFYORHSVI GL GIB GL XLMGILO ZOO LU GSV EVIHRLMH ZMW ZOO LU GSV
FHVH.  XLKBIRTSG OZD ZODZBH LMOB HVGH FK GSV YLFMWZIRVH.  ZMBGSRMT XZM YV
XSZMTVW YB XLMGIZXG.

                                 

HVHHRLM ERR.  XLMXOFHRLM


TVMVIZO WRHXFHHRLM  GDL JFVHGRLMH ULI WRHXFHHRLM  WRUUVIVMG VNKSZHVH RM
GSV DLIPHSLK  YIRMTRMT GSV GVCG ZMW RNZTV KZIGRHZMH GLTVGSVI 
WVHRWVIZGZ RM KOZMMRMT GSV OLMTGVIN WVEVOLKNVMG LU HLNVGSRMT  JFVHGRLMH
HFIILFMWRMT GSV RHHFV LU VOVXGILMRX WVKLHRG  WRHXFHHRLM LU VOVXGILMRX
WVKLHRG ZH ZM ZOOFHRLM GL GSV RHHFV LU HGZMWZIWH  MVVW ULI Z WRIVXGLIB
LU KIVHVIEZGRLM KILQVXGH RM WRTRGZO ULIN ZMW ULI ZXXVHH GL GSVRI
WRTRGRAVW UROVH  XVGSH XZGZOLTFV LU NZXSRMVIVZWZYOV GVCGH RM GSV
SFNZMRGRVH  DSZG XLMHGRGFGVH Z KFYORXZGRLM RM GSV VOVXGILMRX DLIOW? 
MVVW ULI OX GL WVZO DRGS GSV XLMXVKG LU LMORMV KFYORHSRMT  OXH MVGDLIP
WVEVOLKNVMG LUURXV  VCKOLIRMT GSV ORNRGH LU NZIX ZH Z HGZMWZIW RM GVINH
LU SZMWORMT VOVXGILMRX RMULINZGRLM  NZTMRGFWV LU GSV KILYOVN ZMW GSV
MVVW ULI WRHGIRYFGVW IVHKLMHRYRORGB RM LIWVI GL NZRMGZRM ZMW HGLIV
VOVXGILMRX RMULINZGRLM  DLIPHSLK KZIGRXRKZMGH GL YV ERVDVW ZH Z HGZIGRMT
KLRMG  WVEVOLKNVMG LU Z MVGDLIP EVIHRLM LU ZN FITVW  Z HGVK GLDZIW ZNH
XLMHGIFXGRLM LU HLNV HLIG LU ZKKZIZGFH ULI MVGDLIP ZXXVHH  Z WVORXZGV
ZMW ZTLMRARMT KLORXB JFVHGRLM ULI OX  IV GSV RHHFV LU VOVXGILMRX
WVKLHRG, OX FITVW GL RMRGRZGV Z XZGZOBGRX KILXVHH RM GVINH LU WRHGIRYFGVW
IVHKLMHRYRORGB  HFTTVHGRLMH ULI XLLKVIZGREV EVMGFIVH  XLNNVIXRZO
KFYORHSVIH UVZIH  HGIZGVTRX JFVHGRLMH ULI TVGGRMT GSV RNZTV ZMW GVCG
KVLKOV GL GSRMP GSILFTS OLMTGVIN XLLKVIZGRLM  XOZIRURXZGRLM LU GSV
WIRERMT ULIXV YVSRMW YLGS GSV KVIHVFH ZMW GSV XLIMVOO CVILC KILQVXGH 


RM SRH ILOV ZH NLWVIZGLI LU GSV XLMXOFWRMT HVHHRLM, TRUULIW IZRHVW GDL
JFVHGRLMH SV YVORVEVW DLFOW YVMVURG UILN WRHXFHHRLM:  1 ZIV GSVIV VMLFTS
XLNNLMZORGRVH ZNLMT GSLHV LU FH GSZG SZEV YVVM SVIV ULI GDL WZBH HL GSZG
DV XZM HVV XLFIHVH LU ZXGRLM GSZG HSLFOW YV GZPVM RM GSV UFGFIV?  ZMW, RU
HL, DSZG ZIV GSVB ZMW DSL NRTSG GZPV GSVN?  2 KZIGOB WVIREZGREV UILN
GSZG, YFG LYERLFHOB EVIB WZMTVILFH GL OX ZH SLHG, WL BLF HVV Z ILOV ULI
GSV ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH RM ZOO GSRH?  LU XLFIHV, GSV ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH
SLOWH Z IZGSVI HKVXRZO HGZGFH RM Z MFNYVI LU GSVHV NZGGVIH, YVXZFHV RG RH
MLG KVIXVREVW ZH Z KOZBVI DRGS ZM VXLMLNRX HGZPV RM GSVN, YFG ZIV GSVIV
ILOVH GSZG OX XZM KOZB GSZG XZM SVOK ZWEZMXV FH GLDZIW DSVIV DV ZIV SVZWRMT?

WVHXIRYRMT SRNHVOU ZH ZM FMRMULINVW LYHVIEVI LU GSV GVXSMRXZORGRVH LU GSV
OZHG GDL WZBH, TRUULIW WVGVXGVW GSIVV WRUUVIVMG VNKSZHVH RM GSV DLIPHSLK:
1 KVLKOV DSL ZIV EVIB WVVKOB XLNNRGGVW GL GVCG 2 KVLKOV DSL ZIV ZONLHG
KZHHRLMZGV ZYLFG RNZTVH ZMW 3 Z UVD KVLKOV DSL ZIV EVIB XLNNRGGVW GL
DSZG SZKKVMH GL GSV MVGDLIPH.  RM LGSVI DLIWH, GSV MVD MVGDLIPRMT
WRNVMHRLM, GSV ZXXVHHRYRORGB LU GSV KILXVHHZYRORGB, GSV KLIGZYRORGB LU
ZOO GSRH ZXILHH GSV MVGDLIPH.  SLD WL DV KFOO GSLHV GSIVV GLTVGSVI?

ZWWRMT Z JFVHGRLM GSZG IVUOVXGVW SLXPVBH XLNNVMG GSZG GSRH DZH GSV
ULFIGS DLIPHSLK HSV SZW ZGGVMWVW RM GSV KIVERLFH GSRIGB WZBH, UOVRHXSSZFVI
DLMWVIVW GL DSZG VCGVMG GSRH NVVGRMT SZW IVRMEVMGVW GSV DSVVO, LI RU RG
SZW XLMGIRYFGVW ZMBGSRMT RM GSV DZB LU YIRMTRMT GLTVGSVI Z WRUUVIVMG TILFK
LU KVLKOV UILN GSLHV DSL MLINZOOB ZKKVZI LM GSV DLIPHSLK XRIXFRG.

SLXPVB XLMUVHHVW GL YVRMT HGIFXP ZG GSRH NVVGRMT ZMW GSV LMV GSV
VOVXGILMRX KRVIXV XLMHLIGRFN LITZMRAVW GSV KIVERLFH DVVP GSZG GSRH DZH Z
XLNRMT GLTVGSVI LU KVLKOV DLIPRMT LM GVCGH ZMW MLG RNZTVH.  ZGGVNKGRMT GL
YIRMT GSV GDL GLTVGSVI RH HLNVGSRMT DV LFTSG GL YV GSRMPRMT ZYLFG ULI GSV
UFGFIV:  SLD LMV XZM GSRMP ZYLFG DLIPRMT DRGS RNZTV NZGVIRZO GL YVTRM
DRGS, YFG HGIFXGFIRMT RG ZMW WRTRGRARMT RG RM HFXS Z DZB GSZG ZG Z OZGVI
HGZTV RG XZM YV RMGVIKIVGVW RMGL GVCG, ZMW URMW Z XLNNLM DZB LU YFROWRMT
GVCG ZMW RNZTVH GLTVGSVI HL GSZG GSVB XZM YV FHVW QLRMGOB RM GSV UFGFIV,
DRGS GSV MVGDLIP HFKKLIG GL YVTRM GSVIV YVXZFHV GSZG RH SLD KVLKOV DROO
DZMG GL ZXXVHH RG.
