In planning the longterm development of something, which is what is
being done in electronic text, HOCKEY stressed the importance not only
of discussing the technical aspects of how one does it but particularly
of thinking about what the people who use the stuff will want to do.
But conversely, there are numerous things that people start to do with
electronic text or material that nobody ever thought of in the beginning.

LESK, in response to the question concerning the role of the Library of
Congress, remarked the often suggested desideratum of having electronic
deposit:  Since everything is now computertypeset, an entire decade of
material that was machinereadable exists, but the publishers frequently
did not save it has LC taken any action to have its copyright deposit
operation start collecting these machinereadable versions?  In the
absence of PETERS, GIFFORD replied that the question was being
actively considered but that that was only one dimension of the problem.
Another dimension is the whole question of the integrity of the original
electronic document.  It becomes highly important in science to prove
authorship.  How will that be done?

ERWAY explained that, under the old policy, to make a claim for a
copyright for works that were published in electronic form, including
software, one had to submit a paper copy of the first and last twenty
pages of codesomething that represented the work but did not include
the entire work itself and had little value to anyone.  As a temporary
measure, LC has claimed the right to demand electronic versions of
electronic publications.  This measure entails a proactive role for the
Library to say that it wants a particular electronic version.  Publishers
then have perhaps a year to submit it.  But the real problem for LC is
what to do with all this material in all these different formats.  Will
the Library mount it?  How will it give people access to it?  How does LC
keep track of the appropriate computers, software, and media?  The situation
is so hard to control, ERWAY said, that it makes sense for each publishing
house to maintain its own archive.  But LC cannot enforce that either.

GIFFORD acknowledged LESKs suggestion that establishing a priority
offered the solution, albeit a fairly complicated one.  But who maintains
that register?, he asked.  GRABER noted that LC does attempt to collect a
Macintosh version and the IBMcompatible version of software.  It does
not collect other versions.  But while true for software, BYRUM observed,
this reply does not speak to materials, that is, all the materials that
were published that were on somebodys microcomputer or driver tapes
at a publishing office across the country.  LC does well to acquire
specific machinereadable products selectively that were intended to be
machinereadable.  Materials that were in machinereadable form at one time,
BYRUM said, would be beyond LCs capability at the moment, insofar as
attempting to acquire, organize, and preserve them are concernedand
preservation would be the most important consideration.  In this
connection, GIFFORD reiterated the need to work out some sense of
distributive responsibility for a number of these issues, which
inevitably will require significant cooperation and discussion.
Nobody can do it all.

LESK suggested that some publishers may look with favor on LC beginning
to serve as a depository of tapes in an electronic manuscript standard.
Publishers may view this as a service that they did not have to perform
and they might send in tapes.  However, SPERBERGMcQUEEN countered,
although publishers have had equivalent services available to them for a
long time, the electronic text archive has never turned away or been
flooded with tapes and is forever sending feedback to the depositor.
Some publishers do send in tapes.

ANDRE viewed this discussion as an allusion to the issue of standards.
She recommended that the AAP standard and the TEI, which has already been
somewhat harmonized internationally and which also shares several
compatibilities with the AAP, be harmonized to ensure sufficient
compatibility in the software.  She drew the line at saying LC ought to
be the locus or forum for such harmonization.

Taking the group in a slightly different direction, but one where at
least in the near term LC might play a helpful role, LYNCH remarked the
plans of a number of projects to carry out preservation by creating
digital images that will end up in online or nearline storage at some
institution.   Presumably, LC will link this material somehow to its
online catalog in most cases.  Thus, it is in a digital form.  LYNCH had
the impression that many of these institutions would be willing to make
those files accessible to other people outside the institution, provided
that there is no copyright problem.  This desideratum will require
propagating the knowledge that those digitized files exist, so that they
can end up in other online catalogs.  Although uncertain about the
mechanism for achieving this result, LYNCH said that it warranted
scrutiny because it seemed to be connected to some of the basic issues of
cataloging and distribution of records.  It would be  foolish, given the
amount of work that all of us have to do and our meager resources, to
discover multiple institutions digitizing the same work.  Re microforms,
LYNCH said, we are in pretty good shape.

BATTIN called this a big problem and noted that the Cornell people who
had already departed were working on it.  At issue from the beginning
was to learn how to catalog that information into RLIN and then into
OCLC, so that it would be accessible.  That issue remains to be resolved.
LYNCH rejoined that putting it into OCLC or RLIN was helpful insofar as
somebody who is thinking of performing preservation activity on that work
could learn about it.  It is not necessarily helpful for institutions to
make that available.  BATTIN opined that the idea was that it not only be
for preservation purposes but for the convenience of people looking for
this material.  She endorsed LYNCHs dictum that duplication of this
effort was to be avoided by every means.

HOCKEY informed the Workshop about one major current activity of CETH,
namely a catalogue of machinereadable texts in the humanities.  Held on
RLIN at present, the catalogue has been concentrated on ASCII as opposed
to digitized images of text.  She is exploring ways to improve the
catalogue and make it more widely available, and welcomed suggestions
about these concerns.  CETH owns the records, which are not just
restricted to RLIN, and can distribute them however it wishes.

Taking up LESKs earlier question, BATTIN inquired whether LC, since it
is accepting electronic files and designing a mechanism for dealing with
that rather than putting books on shelves, would become responsible for
the National Copyright Depository of Electronic Materials.  Of course
that could not be accomplished overnight, but it would be something LC
could plan for.  GIFFORD acknowledged that much thought was being devoted
to that set of problems and returned the discussion to the issue raised
by LYNCHwhether or not putting the kind of records that both BATTIN and
HOCKEY have been talking about in RLIN is not a satisfactory solution.
It seemed to him that RLIN answered LYNCHs original point concerning
some kind of directory for these kinds of materials.  In a situation
where somebody is attempting to decide whether or not to scan this or
film that or to learn whether or not someone has already done so, LYNCH
suggested, RLIN is helpful, but it is not helpful in the case of a local,
online catalogue.  Further, one would like to have her or his system be
aware that that exists in digital form, so that one can present it to a
patron, even though one did not digitize it, if it is out of copyright.
The only way to make those linkages would be to perform a tremendous
amount of realtime lookup, which would be awkward at best, or
periodically to yank the whole file from RLIN and match it against ones
own stuff, which is a nuisance.

But where, ERWAY inquired, does one stop including things that are
available with Internet, for instance, in ones local catalogue?
It almost seems that that is LCs means to acquire access to them.
That represents LCs new form of library loan.  Perhaps LCs new online
catalogue is an amalgamation of all these catalogues on line.  LYNCH
conceded that perhaps that was true in the very long term, but was not
applicable to scanning in the short term.  In his view, the totals cited
by Yale, 10,000 books over perhaps a fouryear period, and 1,0001,500
books from Cornell, were not big numbers, while searching all over
creation for relatively rare occurrences will prove to be less efficient.
As GIFFORD wondered if this would not be a separable file on RLIN and
could be requested from them, BATTIN interjected that it was easily
accessible to an institution.  SEVERTSON pointed out that that file, cum
enhancements, was available with reference information on CDROM, which
makes it a little more available.

In HOCKEYs view, the real question facing the Workshop is what to put in
this catalogue, because that raises the question of what constitutes a
publication in the electronic world.  WEIBEL interjected that Eric Joule
in OCLCs Office of Research is also wrestling with this particular
problem, while GIFFORD thought it sounded fairly generic.  HOCKEY
contended that a majority of texts in the humanities are in the hands
of either a small number of large research institutions or individuals
and are not generally available for anyone else to access at all.
She wondered if these texts ought to be catalogued.

After argument proceeded back and forth for several minutes over why
cataloguing might be a necessary service, LEBRON suggested that this
issue involved the responsibility of a publisher.  The fact that someone
has created something electronically and keeps it under his or her
control does not constitute publication.  Publication implies
dissemination.  While it would be important for a scholar to let other
people know that this creation exists, in many respects this is no
different from an unpublished manuscript.  That is what is being accessed
in there, except that now one is not looking at it in the hardcopy but
in the electronic environment.

LEBRON expressed puzzlement at the variety of ways electronic publishing
has been viewed.  Much of what has been discussed throughout these two
days has concerned CDROM publishing, whereas in the online environment
that she confronts, the constraints and challenges are very different.
Sooner or later LC will have to deal with the concept of online
publishing.  Taking up the comment ERWAY made earlier about storing
copies, LEBRON gave her own journal as an example.  How would she deposit
OJCCT for copyright?, she asked, because the journal will exist in the
mainframe at OCLC and people will be able to access it.  Here the
situation is different, ownership versus access, and is something that
arises with publication in the online environment, faster than is
sometimes realized.  Lacking clear answers to all of these questions
herself, LEBRON did not anticipate that LC would be able to take a role
in helping to define some of them for quite a while.

GREENFIELD observed that LCs Network Development Office is attempting,
among other things, to explore the limits of MARC as a standard in terms
of handling electronic information.  GREENFIELD also noted that Rebecca
GUENTHER from that office gave a paper to the American Society for
Information Science ASIS summarizing several of the discussion papers
that were coming out of the Network Development Office.  GREENFIELD said
he understood that that office had a listserver soliciting just the kind
of feedback received today concerning the difficulties of identifying and
cataloguing electronic information.  GREENFIELD hoped that everybody
would be aware of that and somehow contribute to that conversation.

Noting two of LCs roles, first, to act as a repository of record for
material that is copyrighted in this country, and second, to make
materials it holds available in some limited form to a clientele that
goes beyond Congress, BESSER suggested that it was incumbent on LC to
extend those responsibilities to all the things being published in
electronic form.  This would mean eventually accepting electronic
formats.  LC could require that at some point they be in a certain
limited set of formats, and then develop mechanisms for allowing people
to access those in the same way that other things are accessed.  This
does not imply that they are on the network and available to everyone.
LC does that with most of its bibliographic records, BESSER said, which
end up migrating to the utility e.g., OCLC or somewhere else.  But just
as most of LCs books are available in some form through interlibrary
loan or some other mechanism, so in the same way electronic formats ought
to be available to others in some format, though with some copyright
considerations.  BESSER was not suggesting that these mechanisms be
established tomorrow, only that they seemed to fall within LCs purview,
and that there should be longrange plans to establish them.

Acknowledging that those from LC in the room agreed with BESSER
concerning the need to confront difficult questions, GIFFORD underscored
the magnitude of the problem of what to keep and what to select.  GIFFORD
noted that LC currently receives some 31,000 items per day, not counting
electronic materials, and argued for much more distributed responsibility
in order to maintain and store electronic information.

BESSER responded that the assembled group could be viewed as a starting
point, whose initial operating premise could be helping to move in this
direction and defining how LC could do so, for example, in areas of
standardization or distribution of responsibility.

FLEISCHHAUER added that AM was fully engaged, wrestling with some of the
questions that pertain to the conversion of older historical materials,
which would be one thing that the Library of Congress might do.  Several
points mentioned by BESSER and several others on this question have a
much greater impact on those who are concerned with cataloguing and the
networking of bibliographic information, as well as preservation itself.

Speaking directly to AM, which he considered was a largely uncopyrighted
database, LYNCH urged development of a network version of AM, or
consideration of making the data in it available to people interested in
doing network multimedia.  On account of the current great shortage of
digital data that is both appealing and unencumbered by complex rights
problems, this course of action could have a significant effect on making
network multimedia a reality.

In this connection, FLEISCHHAUER reported on a fragmentary prototype in
LCs Office of Information Technology Services that attempts to associate
digital images of photographs with cataloguing information in ways that
work within a local area networka step, so to say, toward AMs
construction of some sort of apparatus for access.  Further, AM has
attempted to use standard data forms in order to help make that
distinction between the access tools and the underlying data, and thus
believes that the database is networkable.

A delicate and agonizing policy question for LC, however, which comes
back to resources and unfortunately has an impact on this, is to find
some appropriate, honorable, and legal costrecovery possibilities.  A
certain skittishness concerning costrecovery has made people unsure
exactly what to do.  AM would be highly receptive to discussing further
LYNCHs offer to test or demonstrate its database in a network
environment, FLEISCHHAUER said.

Returning the discussion to what she viewed as the vital issue of
electronic deposit, BATTIN recommended that LC initiate a catalytic
process in terms of distributed responsibility, that is, bring together
the distributed organizations and set up a study group to look at all
these issues and see where we as a nation should move.  The broader
issues of how we deal with the management of electronic information will
not disappear, but only grow worse.

LESK took up this theme and suggested that LC attempt to persuade one
major library in each state to deal with its state equivalent publisher,
which might produce a cooperative project that would be equitably
distributed around the country, and one in which LC would be dealing with
a minimal number of publishers and minimal copyright problems.

GRABER remarked the recent development in the scientific community of a
willingness to use SGML and either deposit or interchange on a fairly
standardized format.  He wondered if a similar movement was taking place
in the humanities.  Although the National Library of Medicine found only
a few publishers to cooperate in a like venture two or three years ago, a
new effort might generate a much larger number willing to cooperate.

KIMBALL recounted his units MachineReadable Collections Reading Room
troubles with the commercial publishers of electronic media in acquiring
materials for LCs collections, in particular the publishers fear that
they would not be able to cover their costs and would lose control of
their products, that LC would give them away or sell them and make
profits from them.  He doubted that the publishing industry was prepared
to move into this area at the moment, given its resistance to allowing LC
to use its machinereadable materials as the Library would like.

The copyright law now addresses compact disk as a medium, and LC can
request one copy of that, or two copies if it is the only version, and
can request copies of software, but that fails to address magazines or
books or anything like that which is in machinereadable form.

GIFFORD acknowledged the thorny nature of this issue, which he illustrated
with the example of the cumbersome process involved in putting a copy of a
scientific database on a LAN in LCs science reading room.  He also
acknowledged that LC needs help and could enlist the energies and talents
of Workshop participants in thinking through a number of these problems.

GIFFORD returned the discussion to getting the image and text people to
think through together where they want to go in the long term.  MYLONAS
conceded that her experience at the Pierce Symposium the previous week at
Georgetown University and this week at LC had forced her to reevaluate
her perspective on the usefulness of text as images.  MYLONAS framed the
issues in a series of questions:  How do we acquire machinereadable
text?  Do we take pictures of it and perform OCR on it later?  Is it
important to obtain very highquality images and text, etc.?
FLEISCHHAUER agreed with MYLONASs framing of strategic questions, adding
that a large institution such as LC probably has to do all of those
things at different times.  Thus, the trick is to exercise judgment.  The
Workshop had added to his and AMs considerations in making those
judgments.  Concerning future meetings or discussions, MYLONAS suggested
that screening priorities would be helpful.

WEIBEL opined that the diversity reflected in this group was a sign both
of the health and of the immaturity of the field, and more time would
have to pass before we convince one another concerning standards.

An exchange between MYLONAS and BATTIN clarified the point that the
driving force behind both the Perseus and the Cornell Xerox projects was
the preservation of knowledge for the future, not simply for particular
research use.  In the case of Perseus, MYLONAS said, the assumption was
that the texts would not be entered again into electronically readable
form.  SPERBERGMcQUEEN added that a scanned image would not serve as an
archival copy for purposes of preservation in the case of, say, the Bill
of Rights, in the sense that the scanned images are effectively the
archival copies for the Cornell mathematics books.


                                 


                          Appendix I:  PROGRAM



                                WORKSHOP
                                   ON
                               ELECTRONIC
                                  TEXTS



                             910 June 1992

                           Library of Congress
                            Washington, D.C.



    Supported by a Grant from the David and Lucile Packard Foundation


Tuesday, 9 June 1992

NATIONAL DEMONSTRATION LAB, ATRIUM, LIBRARY MADISON

8:30 AM   Coffee and Danish, registration

9:00 AM   Welcome

          Prosser Gifford, Director for Scholarly Programs, and Carl
             Fleischhauer, Coordinator, American Memory, Library of
             Congress

9:l5 AN   HVHHRLM R.  XLMGVMG RM Z MVD ULIN:  DSL DROO FHV RG ZMW DSZG
          DROO GSVB WL?

          YILZW WVHXIRKGRLM LU GSV IZMTV LU VOVXGILMRX RMULINZGRLM.
          XSZIZXGVIRAZGRLM LU DSL FHVH RG ZMW SLD RG RH LI NZB YV FHVW.
          RM ZWWRGRLM GL Z OLLP ZG HXSLOZIOB FHVH, GSRH HVHHRLM DROO
          RMXOFWV Z KIVHVMGZGRLM LM FHV YB HGFWVMGH P12 ZMW XLOOVTV
          ZMW GSV TVMVIZO KFYORX.

          NLWVIZGLI:  QZNVH WZOB
          ZEIZ NRXSVOHLM, ZIXSREZO IVHVZIXS ZMW VEZOFZGRLM HGZUU,
             MZGRLMZO ZIXSREVH ZMW IVXLIWH ZWNRMRHGIZGRLM LEVIERVD
          HFHZM S. EVXXRZ, GVZN OVZWVI, ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB, FHVI VEZOFZGRLM,
             ZMW
          QLZMMV UIVVNZM, ZHHLXRZGV XLLIWRMZGLI, ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB, ORYIZIB
             LU XLMTIVHH YVBLMW GSV HXSLOZI

10:30
11:00 ZN  YIVZP

11:00 ZN  HVHHRLM RR.  HSLD ZMW GVOO.

          VZXS KIVHVMGZGRLM GL XLMHRHG LU Z URUGVVMNRMFGV
          HGZGVNVMGHSLD TILFK WRHXFHHRLM DROO ULOOLD OFMXS.

          NLWVIZGLI:  QZXJFVORMV SVHH, WRIVXGLI, MZGRLMZO WVNLMHGIZGRLM
             OZY

            1.  Z XOZHHRXH KILQVXG, HGIVHHRMT GVCGH ZMW GVCG IVGIRVEZO
                NLIV GSZM NFOGRNVWRZ:  KVIHVFH KILQVXG, SZIEZIW
                FMREVIHRGB
                VOOR NBOLMZH, NZMZTRMT VWRGLI

            2.  LGSVI SFNZMRGRVH KILQVXGH VNKOLBRMT GSV VNVITRMT MLINH LU
                GSV GVCG VMXLWRMT RMRGRZGREV GVR:  XSZWDBXPSVZOVBH
                GSV VMTORHS KLVGIB UFOO GVCG WZGZYZHV ZMWLI KZGILOLTRZ
                OZGRMZ WZGZYZHV
                VIRX N. XZOZOFXZ, ERXV KIVHRWVMG, XSZWDBXPSVZOVB, RMX.

            3.  ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB
                XZIO UOVRHXSSZFVI, XLLIWRMZGLI, ZMW
                IRXPB VIDZB, ZHHLXRZGV XLLIWRMZGLI, ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH

            4.  ULFMWRMT UZGSVIH VCZNKOV UILN KZXPZIW SFNZMRGRVH
                RMHGRGFGV:  GSV KZKVIH LU TVLITV DZHSRMTGLM, FMREVIHRGB
                LU ERITRMRZ
                WLILGSB GDLSRT, NZMZTRMT VWRGLI, ZMWLI
                WZERW DLLWOVB KZXPZIW

            5.  ZM VOVXGILMRX NVWRXZO QLFIMZO LUUVIRMT TIZKSRXH ZMW
                UFOOGVCG HVZIXSZYRORGB:  GSV LMORMV QLFIMZO LU XFIIVMG
                XORMRXZO GIRZOH, ZNVIRXZM ZHHLXRZGRLM ULI GSV ZWEZMXVNVMG
                LU HXRVMXV
                NZIRZ O. OVYILM, NZMZTRMT VWRGLI

            6.  Z KILQVXG GSZG LUUVIH UZXHRNROV RNZTVH LU KZTVH YFG LNRGH
                HVZIXSZYOV GVCG:  XLIMVOO NZGS YLLPH
                OBMMV P. KVIHLMRFH, ZHHRHGZMG WRIVXGLI, XLIMVOO
                   RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTRVH ULI HXSLOZIOB RMULINZGRLM
                   HLFIXVH, XLIMVOO FMREVIHRGB

12:30 KN  OFMXS  WRMRMT ILLN Z, ORYIZIB NZWRHLM 620.  VCSRYRGH
          ZEZROZYOV.

1:30 KN   HVHHRLM RR.  HSLD ZMW GVOO XLMGW..

3:00
3:30 KN   YIVZP

3:30
5:30 KN   HVHHRLM RRR.  WRHGIRYFGRLM, MVGDLIPH, ZMW MVGDLIPRMT:  LKGRLMH
          ULI WRHHVNRMZGRLM.

          KFYORHSVW WRHPH:  FMREVIHRGB KIVHHVH ZMW KFYORXHVXGLI
             KFYORHSVIH, KIREZGVHVXGLI KFYORHSVIH
          XLNKFGVI MVGDLIPH

          NLWVIZGLI:  ILYVIG T. ARXS, HKVXRZO ZHHRHGZMG GL GSV ZHHLXRZGV
             ORYIZIRZM ULI HKVXRZO KILQVXGH, ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH
          XORUULIW Z. OBMXS, WRIVXGLI, ORYIZIB ZFGLNZGRLM, FMREVIHRGB LU
             XZORULIMRZ
          SLDZIW YVHHVI, HXSLLO LU ORYIZIB ZMW RMULINZGRLM HXRVMXV,
             FMREVIHRGB LU KRGGHYFITS
          ILMZOW O. OZIHVM, ZHHLXRZGV WRIVXGLI LU ORYIZIRVH ULI
             RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTB, FMREVIHRGB LU NZIBOZMW ZG XLOOVTV
             KZIP
          VWDRM Y. YILDMIRTT, VCVXFGREV WRIVXGLI, NVNVC IVHVZIXS
             RMHGRGFGV

6:30 KN   IVXVKGRLM  NLMGKVORVI ILLN, ORYIZIB NZWRHLM 619.

                                 

