
DINING ROOM A, LIBRARY MADISON 620

8:30 AM   Coffee and Danish

9:00 AM   Session IV.  Image Capture, Text Capture, Overview of Text and
          Image Storage Formats.

          Moderator:  William L. Hooton, Vice President of Operations,
             INET

          A Principal Methods for Image Capture of Text:
             Direct scanning
             Use of microform

          Anne R. Kenney, Assistant Director, Department of Preservation
             and Conservation, Cornell University
          Pamela Q.J. Andre, Associate Director, Automation, and
          Judith A. Zidar, Coordinator, National Agricultural Text
             Digitizing Program NATDP, National Agricultural Library
             NAL
          Donald J. Waters, Head, Systems Office, Yale University Library

          B Special Problems:
             Bound volumes
             Conservation
             Reproducing printed halftones

          Carl Fleischhauer, Coordinator, American Memory, Library of
             Congress
          George Thoma, Chief, Communications Engineering Branch,
             National Library of Medicine NLM

10:30
11:00 AM  Break

11:00 AM  Session IV.  Image Capture, Text Capture, Overview of Text and
          Image Storage Formats Contd..

          C Image Standards and Implications for Preservation

          Jean Baronas, Senior Manager, Department of Standards and
             Technology, Association for Information and Image Management
             AIIM
          Patricia Battin, President, The Commission on Preservation and
             Access CPA

          D Text Conversion:
             OCR vs. rekeying
             Standards of accuracy and use of imperfect texts
             Service bureaus

          Stuart Weibel, Senior Research Specialist, Online Computer
             Library Center, Inc. OCLC
          Michael Lesk, Executive Director, Computer Science Research,
             Bellcore
          Ricky Erway, Associate Coordinator, American Memory, Library of
             Congress
          Pamela Q.J. Andre, Associate Director, Automation, and
          Judith A. Zidar, Coordinator, National Agricultural Text
             Digitizing Program NATDP, National Agricultural Library
             NAL

12:30
1:30 PM   Lunch

1:30 PM   Session V.  Approaches to Preparing Electronic Texts.

          Discussion of approaches to structuring text for the computer
          pros and cons of text coding, description of methods in
          practice, and comparison of textcoding methods.

          Moderator:  Susan Hockey, Director, Center for Electronic Texts
             in the Humanities CETH, Rutgers and Princeton Universities
          David Woodley Packard
          C.M. SperbergMcQueen, Editor, Text Encoding Initiative TEI,
             University of IllinoisChicago
          Eric M. Calaluca, Vice President, ChadwyckHealey, Inc.

3:30
4:00 PM   Break

4:00 PM   Session VI.  Copyright Issues.

          Marybeth Peters, Policy Planning Adviser to the Register of
             Copyrights, Library of Congress

5:00 PM   Session VII. Conclusion.

          General discussion.
          What topics were omitted or given short shrift that anyone
             would like to talk about now?
          Is there a "group" here?  What should the group do next, if
             anything?  What should the Library of Congress do next, if
             anything?
          Moderator:  Prosser Gifford, Director for Scholarly Programs,
             Library of Congress

6:00 PM   Adjourn


                                 


                         Appendix II:  ABSTRACTS


SESSION I

Avra MICHELSON           Forecasting the Use of Electronic Texts by
                         Social Sciences and Humanities Scholars

This presentation explores the ways in which electronic texts are likely
to be used by the nonscientific scholarly community.  Many of the
remarks are drawn from a report the speaker coauthored with Jeff
Rothenberg, a computer scientist at The RAND Corporation.

The speaker assesses 1 current scholarly use of information technology
and 2 the key trends in information technology most relevant to the
research process, in order to predict how social sciences and humanities
scholars are apt to use electronic texts.  In introducing the topic,
current use of electronic texts is explored broadly within the context of
scholarly communication.  From the perspective of scholarly
communication, the work of humanities and social sciences scholars
involves five processes:  1 identification of sources, 2 communication
with colleagues, 3 interpretation and analysis of data, 4 dissemination
of research findings, and 5 curriculum development and instruction.  The
extent to which computation currently permeates aspects of scholarly
communication represents a viable indicator of the prospects for
electronic texts.

The discussion of current practice is balanced by an analysis of key
trends in the scholarly use of information technology.  These include the
trends toward enduser computing and connectivity, which provide a
framework for forecasting the use of electronic texts through this
millennium.  The presentation concludes with a summary of the ways in
which the nonscientific scholarly community can be expected to use
electronic texts, and the implications of that use for information
providers.

Susan VECCIA and Joanne FREEMAN    Electronic Archives for the Public:
                                   Use of American Memory in Public and
                                   School Libraries

This joint discussion focuses on nonscholarly applications of electronic
library materials, specifically addressing use of the Library of Congress
American Memory AM program in a small number of public and school
libraries throughout the United States.  AM consists of selected Library
of Congress primary archival materials, stored on optical media
CDROMvideodisc, and presented with little or no editing.  Many
collections are accompanied by electronic introductions and users guides
offering background information and historical context.  Collections
represent a variety of formats including photographs, graphic arts,
motion pictures, recorded sound, music, broadsides and manuscripts,
books, and pamphlets.

In 1991, the Library of Congress began a nationwide evaluation of AM in
different types of institutions.  Test sites include public libraries,
elementary and secondary school libraries, college and university
libraries, state libraries, and special libraries.  Susan VECCIA and
Joanne FREEMAN will discuss their observations on the use of AM by the
nonscholarly community, using evidence gleaned from this ongoing
evaluation effort.

VECCIA will comment on the overall goals of the evaluation project, and
the types of public and school libraries included in this study.  Her
comments on nonscholarly use of AM will focus on the public library as a
cultural and community institution, often bridging the gap between formal
and informal education.  FREEMAN will discuss the use of AM in school
libraries.  Use by students and teachers has revealed some broad
questions about the use of electronic resources, as well as definite
benefits gained by the "nonscholar."  Topics will include the problem of
grasping content and context in an electronic environment, the stumbling
blocks created by "new" technologies, and the unique skills and interests
awakened through use of electronic resources.

SESSION II

Elli MYLONAS             The Perseus Project:  Interactive Sources and
                         Studies in Classical Greece

The Perseus Project 5 has just released Perseus 1.0, the first publicly
available version of its hypertextual database of multimedia materials on
classical Greece.  Perseus is designed to be used by a wide audience,
comprised of readers at the student and scholar levels.  As such, it must
be able to locate information using different strategies, and it must
contain enough detail to serve the different needs of its users.  In
addition, it must be delivered so that it is affordable to its target
audience.  These problems and the solutions we chose are described in
Mylonas, "An Interface to Classical Greek Civilization," JASIS 43:2,
March 1992.

In order to achieve its objective, the project staff decided to make a
conscious separation between selecting and converting textual, database,
and image data on the one hand, and putting it into a delivery system on
the other.  That way, it is possible to create the electronic data
without thinking about the restrictions of the delivery system.  We have
made a great effort to choose systemindependent formats for our data,
and to put as much thought and work as possible into structuring it so
that the translation from paper to electronic form will enhance the value
of the data. A discussion of these solutions as of two years ago is in
Elli Mylonas, Gregory Crane, Kenneth Morrell, and D. Neel Smith, "The
Perseus Project:  Data in the Electronic Age," in Accessing Antiquity:
The Computerization of Classical Databases, J. Solomon and T. Worthen
eds.,  University of Arizona Press, in press.

Much of the work on Perseus is focused on collecting and converting the
data on which the project is based.  At the same time, it is necessary to
provide means of access to the information, in order to make it usable,
and them to investigate how it is used.  As we learn more about what
students and scholars from different backgrounds do with Perseus, we can
adjust our data collection, and also modify the system to accommodate
them.  In creating a delivery system for general use, we have tried to
avoid favoring any one type of use by allowing multiple forms of access
to and navigation through the system.

The way text is handled exemplifies some of these principles.  All text
in Perseus is tagged using SGML, following the guidelines of the Text
Encoding Initiative TEI.  This markup is used to index the text, and
process it so that it can be imported into HyperCard.  No SGML markup
remains in the text that reaches the user, because currently it would be
too expensive to create a system that acts on SGML in real time.
However, the regularity provided by SGML is essential for verifying the
content of the texts, and greatly speeds all the processing performed on
them.  The fact that the texts exist in SGML ensures that they will be
relatively easy to port to different hardware and software, and so will
outlast the current delivery platform.  Finally, the SGML markup
incorporates existing canonical reference systems chapter, verse, line,
etc. indexing and navigation are based on these features.  This ensures
that the same canonical reference will always resolve to the same point
within a text, and that all versions of our texts, regardless of delivery
platform even paper printouts will function the same way.

In order to provide tools for users, the text is processed by a
morphological analyzer, and the results are stored in a database.
Together with the index, the GreekEnglish Lexicon, and the index of all
the English words in the definitions of the lexicon, the morphological
analyses comprise a set of linguistic tools that allow users of all
levels to work with the textual information, and to accomplish different
tasks.  For example, students who read no Greek may explore a concept as
it appears in Greek texts by using the EnglishGreek index, and then
looking up works in the texts and translations, or scholars may do
detailed morphological studies of word use by using the morphological
analyses of the texts.  Because these tools were not designed for any one
use, the same tools and the same data can be used by both students and
scholars.

NOTES:
     5  Perseus is based at Harvard University, with collaborators at
     several other universities.  The project has been funded primarily
     by the AnnenbergCPB Project, as well as by Harvard University,
     Apple Computer, and others.  It is published by Yale University
     Press.  Perseus runs on Macintosh computers, under the HyperCard
     program.

Eric CALALUCA

ChadwyckHealey embarked last year on two distinct yet related fulltext
humanities database projects.

The English Poetry FullText Database and the Patrologia Latina Database
represent new approaches to linguistic research resources.  The size and
complexity of the projects present problems for electronic publishers,
but surmountable ones if they remain abreast of the latest possibilities
in data capture and retrieval software techniques.

The issues which required address prior to the commencement of the
projects were legion:

     1.   Editorial selection or exclusion of materials in each
          database

     2.   Deciding whether or not to incorporate a normative encoding
          structure into the databases?
               A.  If one is selected, should it be SGML?
               B.  If SGML, then the TEI?

     3.   Deliver as CDROM, magnetic tape, or both?

     4.   Can one produce retrieval software advanced enough for the
          postdoctoral linguist, yet accessible enough for unattended
          general use?  Should one try?

     5.   Re fair and liberal networking policies, what are the risks to
          an electronic publisher?

     6.   How does the emergence of national and international education
          networks affect the use and viability of research projects
          requiring high investment?  Do the new European Community
          directives concerning database protection necessitate two
          distinct publishing projects, one for North America and one for
          overseas?

From new notions of "scholarly fair use" to the future of optical media,
virtually every issue related to electronic publishing was aired.  The
result is two projects which have been constructed to provide the quality
research resources with the fewest encumbrances to use by teachers and
private scholars.

Dorothy TWOHIG

In spring 1988 the editors of the papers of George Washington, John
Adams, Thomas Jefferson, James Madison, and Benjamin Franklin were
approached by classics scholar David Packard on behalf of the Packard
Humanities Foundation with a proposal to produce a CDROM edition of the
complete papers of each of the Founding Fathers.  This electronic edition
will supplement the published volumes, making the documents widely
available to students and researchers at reasonable cost.  We estimate
that our CDROM edition of Washingtons Papers will be substantially
completed within the next two years and ready for publication.  Within
the next ten years or so, similar CDROM editions of the Franklin, Adams,
Jefferson, and Madison papers also will be available.  At the Library of
Congresss session on technology, I would like to discuss not only the
experience of the Washington Papers in producing the CDROM edition, but
the impact technology has had on these major editorial projects.
Already, we are editing our volumes with an eye to the material that will
be readily available in the CDROM edition.  The completed electronic
edition will provide immense possibilities for the searching of documents
for information in a way never possible before.  The kind of technical
innovations that are currently available and on the drawing board will
soon revolutionize historical research and the production of historical
documents.  Unfortunately, much of this new technology is not being used
in the planning stages of historical projects, simply because many
historians are aware only in the vaguest way of its existence.  At least
two major new historical editing projects are considering microfilm
editions, simply because they are not aware of the possibilities of
electronic alternatives and the advantages of the new technology in terms
of flexibility and research potential compared to microfilm.  In fact,
too many of us in history and literature are still at the stage of
struggling with our PCs.  There are many historical editorial projects in
progress presently, and an equal number of literary projects.  While the
two fields have somewhat different approaches to textual editing, there
are ways in which electronic technology can be of service to both.

Since few of the editors involved in the Founding Fathers CDROM editions
are technical experts in any sense, I hope to point out in my discussion
of our experience how many of these electronic innovations can be used
successfully by scholars who are novices in the world of new technology.
One of the major concerns of the sponsors of the multitude of new
scholarly editions is the limited audience reached by the published
volumes.  Most of these editions are being published in small quantities
and the publishers price for them puts them out of the reach not only of
individual scholars but of most public libraries and all but the largest
educational institutions.  However, little attention is being given to
ways in which technology can bypass conventional publication to make
historical and literary documents more widely available.

What attracted us most to the CDROM edition of The Papers of George
Washington was the fact that David Packards aim was to make a complete
edition of all of the 135,000 documents we have collected available in an
inexpensive format that would be placed in public libraries, small
colleges, and even high schools.  This would provide an audience far
beyond our present 1,000copy, 45 published edition.  Since the CDROM
edition will carry none of the explanatory annotation that appears in the
published volumes, we also feel that the use of the CDROM will lead many
researchers to seek out the published volumes.

In addition to ignorance of new technical advances, I have found that too
many editorsand historians and literary scholarsare resistant and
even hostile to suggestions that electronic technology may enhance their
work.  I intend to discuss some of the arguments traditionalists are
advancing to resist technology, ranging from distrust of the speed with
which it changes we are already wondering what is out there that is
better than CDROM to suspicion of the technical language used to
describe electronic developments.

Maria LEBRON

The Online Journal of Current Clinical Trials, a joint venture of the
American Association for the Advancement of Science AAAS and the Online
Computer Library Center, Inc. OCLC, is the first peerreviewed journal
to provide full text, tabular material, and line illustrations on line.
This presentation will discuss the genesis and startup period of the
journal.  Topics of discussion will include historical overview,
daytoday management of the editorial peer review, and manuscript
tagging and publication.  A demonstration of the journal and its features
will accompany the presentation.

Lynne PERSONIUS

Cornell University Library, Cornell Information Technologies, and Xerox
Corporation, with the support of the Commission on Preservation and
Access, and Sun Microsystems, Inc., have been collaborating in a project
to test a prototype system for recording brittle books as digital images
and producing, on demand, highquality archival paper replacementH.  GSV
KILQVXG TLVH YVBLMW GSZG, SLDVEVI, GL RMEVHGRTZGV HLNV LU GSV RHHFVH
HFIILFMWRMT HXZMMRMT, HGLIRMT, IVGIRVERMT, ZMW KILERWRMT ZXXVHH GL
WRTRGZO RNZTVH RM Z MVGDLIP VMERILMNVMG.

GSV QLRMG HGFWB RM WRTRGZO KIVHVIEZGRLM YVTZM RM QZMFZIB 1990.  CVILC
KILERWVW GSV XLOOVTV ORYIZIB ZXXVHH ZMW HGLIZTV HBHGVN XOZHH HLUGDZIV,
Z KILGLGBKV 600WLGHKVIRMXS WKR HXZMMVI, ZMW GSV SZIWDZIV MVXVHHZIB
GL HFKKLIG MVGDLIP KIRMGRMT LM GSV WLXFGVXS KIRMGVI SLFHVW RM XLIMVOOH
XLNKFGRMT ZMW XLNNFMRXZGRLMH XVMGVI XXX.

GSV XLIMVOO HGZUU FHRMT GSV SZIWDZIV ZMW HLUGDZIV YVXZNV ZM RMGVTIZO KZIG
LU GSV WVEVOLKNVMG ZMW GVHGRMT KILXVHH ULI VMSZMXVNVMGH GL GSV XOZHH
HLUGDZIV HBHGVN.  GSV XLOOZYLIZGREV MZGFIV LU GSRH IVOZGRLMHSRK RH
IVHFOGRMT RM Z HBHGVN GSZG RH HKVXRURXZOOB GZROLIVW GL GSV KIVHVIEZGRLM
ZKKORXZGRLM.

Z WRTRGZO ORYIZIB LU 1,000 ELOFNVH LI ZKKILCRNZGVOB 300,000 RNZTVH SZH
YVVM XIVZGVW ZMW RH HGLIVW LM ZM LKGRXZO QFPVYLC GSZG IVHRWVH RM XXX.
GSV ORYIZIB RMXOFWVH Z XLOOVXGRLM LU HVOVXG NZGSVNZGRXH NLMLTIZKSH GSZG
KILERWVH NZGSVNZGRXH UZXFOGB DRGS ZM LKKLIGFMRGB GL FHV GSV VOVXGILMRX
ORYIZIB.  GSV IVNZRMRMT ELOFNVH DVIV XSLHVM ULI GSV ORYIZIB GL GVHG GSV
EZIRLFH XZKZYRORGRVH LU GSV HXZMMRMT HBHGVN.

LMV KILQVXG LYQVXGREV RH GL KILERWV FHVIH LU GSV XLIMVOO ORYIZIB ZMW GSV
ORYIZIB HGZUU DRGS GSV ZYRORGB GL IVJFVHG UZXHRNROVH LU WRTRGRAVW RNZTVH
LI GL IVGIRVEV GSV ZXGFZO VOVXGILMRX RNZTV ULI YILDHRMT.  Z KILGLGBKV
ERVDRMT DLIPHGZGRLM SZH YVVM XIVZGVW YB CVILC, DRGS RMKFG RMGL GSV WVHRTM
YB Z XLNNRGGVV LU XLIMVOO ORYIZIRZMH ZMW XLNKFGVI KILUVHHRLMZOH.  GSRH
DROO ZOOLD FH GL VCKVIRNVMG DRGS KZGILM ZXXVHH GL GSV RNZTVH GSZG NZPV FK
GSV WRTRGZO ORYIZIB.  GSV ERVDRMT HGZGRLM KILERWVH HVZIXS, IVGIRVEZO, ZMW
FOGRNZGVOB KIRMGRMT UFMXGRLMH DRGS VMSZMXVNVMGH GL UZXRORGZGV
MZERTZGRLM GSILFTS NFOGRKOV WLXFNVMGH.

XLIMVOO XFIIVMGOB RH DLIPRMT GL VCGVMW ZXXVHH GL GSV WRTRGZO ORYIZIB GL
IVZWVIH FHRMT DLIPHGZGRLMH UILN GSVRI LUURXVH.  GSRH BVZI RH WVELGVW GL
GSV WVEVOLKNVMG LU Z MVGDLIP IVHRWVMG RNZTV XLMEVIHRLM ZMW WVOREVIB
HVIEVI, ZMW XORVMG HLUGDZIV GSZG DROO HFKKLIG IVZWVIH DSL FHV ZKKOV
NZXRMGLHS XLNKFGVIH, RYN DRMWLDH KOZGULINH, ZMW HFM DLIPHGZGRLMH.
VJFRKNVMG ULI GSRH WVEVOLKNVMG DZH KILERWVW YB HFM NRXILHBHGVNH DRGS
HFKKLIG UILN GSV XLNNRHHRLM LM KIVHVIEZGRLM ZMW ZXXVHH.

WFIRMT GSV HSLDZMWGVOO HVHHRLM LU GSV DLIPHSLK LM VOVXGILMRX GVCGH, Z
KILGLGBKV ERVD HGZGRLM DROO YV WVNLMHGIZGVW.  RM ZWWRGRLM, Z WRHKOZB LU
LIRTRMZO ORYIZIB YLLPH GSZG SZEV YVVM WRTRGRAVW DROO YV ZEZROZYOV ULI
IVERVD DRGS ZHHLXRZGVW KIRMGVW XLKRVH ULI XLNKZIRHLM.  GSV URUGVVMNRMFGV
LEVIERVD LU GSV KILQVXG DROO RMXOFWV Z HORWV KIVHVMGZGRLM GSZG
XLMHGRGFGVH Z "GLFI" LU GSV KIVHVIEZGRLM WRTRGRARMT KILXVHH.

GSV URMZO MVGDLIPXLMMVXGVW EVIHRLM LU GSV ERVDRMT HGZGRLM DROO KILERWV
ORYIZIB FHVIH DRGS ZMLGSVI NVXSZMRHN ULI ZXXVHHRMT GSV WRTRGZO ORYIZIB,
ZMW DROO ZOHL KILERWV GSV XZKZYRORGB LU ERVDRMT RNZTVH WRIVXGOB.  GSRH
DROO MLG IVJFRIV HKVXRZO HLUGDZIV, ZOGSLFTS Z KLDVIUFO XLNKFGVI DRGS TLLW
TIZKSRXH DROO YV MVVWVW.

GSV QLRMG HGFWB RM WRTRGZO KIVHVIEZGRLM SZH TVMVIZGVW Z TIVZG WVZO LU
RMGVIVHG RM GSV ORYIZIB XLNNFMRGB.  FMULIGFMZGVOB, LI KVISZKH
ULIGFMZGVOB, GSRH KILQVXG HVIEVH GL IZRHV Z EZHG MFNYVI LU LGSVI RHHFVH
HFIILFMWRMT GSV FHV LU WRTRGZO GVXSMLOLTB ULI GSV KIVHVIEZGRLM ZMW FHV LU
WVGVIRLIZGRMT ORYIZIB NZGVIRZOH, DSRXS HFYHVJFVMG KILQVXGH DROO MVVW GL
VCZNRMV.  NFXS DLIP IVNZRMH.

