The CORE Chemistry Online Retrieval Experiment Project is a model for
the conversion of large text and graphics collections for which
electronic typesetting files are available category 2.  The American
Chemical Society has made available computer typography files dating from
1980 for its twenty journals.  This collection of some 250 journalyears
is being converted to an electronic format that will be accessible
through several enduser applications.

The use of Standard Generalized Markup Language SGML offers the means
to capture the structural richness of the original articles in a way that
will support a variety of retrieval, navigation, and display options
necessary to navigate effectively in very large text databases.

An SGML document consists of text that is marked up with descriptive tags
that specify the function of a given element within the document.  As a
formal language construct, an SGML document can be parsed against a
documenttype definition DTD that unambiguously defines what elements
are allowed and where in the document they can or must occur.  This
formalized map of article structure allows the user interface design to
be uncoupled from the underlying database system, an important step
toward interoperability.  Demonstration of this separability is a part of
the CORE project, wherein user interface designs born of very different
philosophies will access the same database.

NOTES:
     6  The CORE project is a collaboration among Cornell Universitys
     Mann Library, Bell Communications Research Bellcore, the American
     Chemical Society ACS, the Chemical Abstracts Service CAS, and
     OCLC.

Michael LESK                  The CORE Electronic Chemistry Library

A major online file of chemical journal literature complete with
graphics is being developed to test the usability of fully electronic
access to documents, as a joint project of Cornell University, the
American Chemical Society, the Chemical Abstracts Service, OCLC, and
Bellcore with additional support from Sun Microsystems, SpringerVerlag,
DigitaI Equipment Corporation, Sony Corporation of America, and Apple
Computers.  Our file contains the American Chemical Societys online
journals, supplemented with the graphics from the paper publication.  The
indexing of the articles from Chemical Abstracts Documents is available
in both image and text format, and several different interfaces can be
used.  Our goals are 1 to assess the effectiveness and acceptability of
electronic access to primary journals as compared with paper, and 2 to
identify the most desirable functions of the user interface to an
electronic system of journals, including in particular a comparison of
pageimage display with ASCII display interfaces.  Early experiments with
chemistry students on a variety of tasks suggest that searching tasks are
completed much faster with any electronic system than with paper, but
that for reading all versions of the articles are roughly equivalent.

Pamela ANDRE and Judith ZIDAR

Text conversion is far more expensive and timeconsuming than image
capture alone.  NALs experience with optical character recognition OCR
will be related and compared with the experience of having text rekeyed.
What factors affect OCR accuracy?  How accurate does full text have to be
in order to be useful?  How do different users react to imperfect text?
These are questions that will be explored.  For many, a service bureau
may be a better solution than performing the work inhouse this will also
be discussed.

SESSION VI

Marybeth PETERS

Copyright law protects creative works.  Protection granted by the law to
authors and disseminators of works includes the right to do or authorize
the following:  reproduce the work, prepare derivative works, distribute
the work to the public, and publicly perform or display the work.  In
addition, copyright owners of sound recordings and computer programs have
the right to control rental of their works.  These rights are not
unlimited there are a number of exceptions and limitations.

An electronic environment places strains on the copyright system.
Copyright owners want to control uses of their work and be paid for any
use the public wants quick and easy access at little or no cost.  The
marketplace is working in this area.  Contracts, guidelines on electronic
use, and collective licensing are in use and being refined.

Issues concerning the ability to change works without detection are more
difficult to deal with.  Questions concerning the integrity of the work
and the status of the changed version under the copyright law are to be
addressed.  These are public policy issues which require informed
dialogue.


                                 


                Appendix III:  DIRECTORY OF PARTICIPANTS


PRESENTERS:

     Pamela Q.J. Andre
     Associate Director, Automation
     National Agricultural Library
     10301 Baltimore Boulevard
     Beltsville, MD 207052351
     Phone:  301 5046813
     Fax:  301 5047473
     Email:  INTERNET:  PANDREASRR.ARSUSDA.GOV

     Jean Baronas, Senior Manager
     Department of Standards and Technology
     Association for Information and Image Management AIIM
     1100 Wayne Avenue, Suite 1100
     Silver Spring, MD 20910
     Phone:  301 5878202
     Fax:  301 5872711

     Patricia Battin, President
     The Commission on Preservation and Access
     1400 16th Street, N.W.
     Suite 740
     Washington, DC 200362217
     Phone:  202 9393400
     Fax:  202 9393407
     Email:  CPAGWUVM.BITNET

     Howard Besser
     Centre Canadien dArchitecture
     Canadian Center for Architecture
     1920, rue Baile
     Montreal, Quebec H3H 2S6
     CANADA
     Phone:  514 9397001
     Fax:  514 9397020
     Email:  howardlis.pitt.edu

     Edwin B. Brownrigg, Executive Director
     Memex Research Institute
     422 Bonita Avenue
     Roseville, CA 95678
     Phone:  916 7842298
     Fax:  916 7867559
     Email:  BITNET:  MEMEXCALSTATE.2

     Eric M. Calaluca, Vice President
     ChadwyckHealey, Inc.
     1101 King Street
     Alexandria, VA 223l4
     Phone:  800 75205l5
     Fax:  703 6837589

     James Daly
     4015 Deepwood Road
     Baltimore, MD 212181404
     Phone:  410 2350763

     Ricky Erway, Associate Coordinator
     American Memory
     Library of Congress
     Phone:  202 7076233
     Fax:  202 7073764

     Carl Fleischhauer, Coordinator
     American Memory
     Library of Congress
     Phone:  202 7076233
     Fax:  202 7073764

     Joanne Freeman
     2000 Jefferson Park Avenue, No. 7
     Charlottesville, VA  22903

     Prosser Gifford
     Director for Scholarly Programs
     Library of Congress
     Phone:  202 7071517
     Fax:  202 7079898
     Email:  pgifseq1.loc.gov

     Jacqueline Hess, Director
     National Demonstration Laboratory
       for Interactive Information Technologies
     Library of Congress
     Phone:  202 7074157
     Fax:  202 7072829

     Susan Hockey, Director
     Center for Electronic Texts in the Humanities CETH
     Alexander Library
     Rutgers University
     169 College Avenue
     New Brunswick, NJ 08903
     Phone:  908 9321384
     Fax:  908 9321386
     Email:  hockeyzodiac.rutgers.edu

     William L. Hooton, Vice President
     Business  Technical Development
       Imaging  Information Systems Group
     INET
     6430 Rockledge Drive, Suite 400
     Bethesda, MD 208l7
     Phone:  301 5646750
     Fax:  513 5646867

     Anne R. Kenney, Associate Director
     Department of Preservation and Conservation
     701 Olin Library
     Cornell University
     Ithaca, NY 14853
     Phone:  607 2556875
     Fax:  607 2559346
     Email:  LYDYCORNELLA.BITNET

     Ronald L. Larsen
     Associate Director for Information Technology
     University of Maryland at College Park
     Room B0224, McKeldin Library
     College Park, MD 207427011
     Phone:  301 4059194
     Fax:  301 3149865
     Email:  rlarsenlibr.umd.edu

     Maria L. Lebron, Managing Editor
     The Online Journal of Current Clinical Trials
     l333 H Street, N.W.
     Washington, DC 20005
     Phone:  202 3266735
     Fax:  202 8422868
     Email:  PUBSAAASGWUVM.BITNET

     Michael Lesk, Executive Director
     Computer Science Research
     Bell Communications Research, Inc.
     Rm 2A385
     445 South Street
     Morristown, NJ 07960l9l0
     Phone:  201 8294070
     Fax:  201 8295981
     Email:  leskbellcore.com Internet or bellcore!lesk uucp

     Clifford A. Lynch
     Director, Library Automation
     University of California,
        Office of the President
     300 Lakeside Drive, 8th Floor
     Oakland, CA 946123350
     Phone:  510 9870522
     Fax:  510 8393573
     Email:  caluruccmvsa

     Avra Michelson
     National Archives and Records Administration
     NSZ Rm. 14N
     7th  Pennsylvania, N.W.
     Washington, D.C. 20408
     Phone:  202 5015544
     Fax:  202 5015533
     Email:  tmicu.nih.gov

     Elli Mylonas, Managing Editor
     Perseus Project
     Department of the Classics
     Harvard University
     319 Boylston Hall
     Cambridge, MA 02138
     Phone:  617 4959025, 617 4950456 direct
     Fax:  617 4968886
     Email:  ElliIKAROS.Harvard.EDU or elliwjh12.harvard.edu

     David Woodley Packard
     Packard Humanities Institute
     300 Second Street, Suite 201
     Los Altos, CA 94002
     Phone:  415 9480150 PHI
     Fax:  415 9485793

     Lynne K. Personius, Assistant Director
     Cornell Information Technologies for
      Scholarly Information Sources
     502 Olin Library
     Cornell University
     Ithaca, NY 14853
     Phone:  607 2553393
     Fax:  607 2559346
     Email:  JRNCORNELLC.BITNET

     Marybeth Peters
     Policy Planning Adviser to the
       Register of Copyrights
     Library of Congress
     Office LM 403
     Phone:  202 7078350
     Fax:  202 7078366

     C. Michael SperbergMcQueen
     Editor, Text Encoding Initiative
     Computer Center MC 135
     University of Illinois at Chicago
     Box 6998
     Chicago, IL 60680
     Phone:  312 4130317
     Fax:  312 9966834
     Email:  u35395uicvm..cc.uic.edu or u35395uicvm.bitnet

     George R. Thoma, Chief
     Communications Engineering Branch
     National Library of Medicine
     8600 Rockville Pike
     Bethesda, MD 20894
     Phone:  301 4964496
     Fax:  301 4020341
     Email:  thomalhc.nlm.nih.gov

     Dorothy Twohig, Editor
     The PapeIH LU TVLITV DZHSRMTGLM
     504 ZOWVINZM ORYIZIB
     FMREVIHRGB LU ERITRMRZ
     XSZIOLGGVHEROOV, EZ 229032498
     KSLMV:  804 9240523
     UZC:  804 9244337

     HFHZM S. EVXXRZ, GVZN OVZWVI
     ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB, FHVI VEZOFZGRLM
     ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH
     ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB VEZOFZGRLM KILQVXG
     KSLMV:  202 7079104
     UZC:  202 7073764
     VNZRO:  HEVXHVJ1.OLX.TLE

     WLMZOW Q. DZGVIH, SVZW
     HBHGVNH LUURXV
     BZOV FMREVIHRGB ORYIZIB
     MVD SZEVM, XG 06520
     KSLMV:  203 4324889
     UZC:  203 4327231
     VNZRO:  WDZGVIHBZOVEN.YRGMVG LI WDZGVIHBZOVEN.BXX.BZOV.VWF

     HGFZIG DVRYVO, HVMRLI IVHVZIXS HXRVMGRHG
     LXOX
     6565 UIZMGA ILZW
     WFYORM, LS 43017
     KSLMV:  614 764608O
     UZC:  614 7642344
     VNZRO:  RMGVIMVG:  HGFIHXS.LXOX.LIT

     ILYVIG T. ARXS
     HKVXRZO ZHHRHGZMG GL GSV ZHHLXRZGV ORYIZIRZM
       ULI HKVXRZO KILQVXGH
     ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH
     KSLMV:  202 7076233
     UZC:  202 7073764
     VNZRO:  IARXHVJ1.OLX.TLE

     QFWRGS Z. ARWZI, XLLIWRMZGLI
     MZGRLMZO ZTIRXFOGFIZO GVCG WRTRGRARMT KILTIZN
     RMULINZGRLM HBHGVNH WRERHRLM
     MZGRLMZO ZTIRXFOGFIZO ORYIZIB
     10301 YZOGRNLIV YLFOVEZIW
     YVOGHEROOV, NW 207052351
     KSLMV:  301 5046813 LI 5045853
     UZC:  301 5047473
     VNZRO:  RMGVIMVG:  QARWZIZHII.ZIHFHWZ.TLE


LYHVIEVIH:

     SVOVM ZTFVIZ, KILTIZN LUURXVI
     WRERHRLM LU IVHVZIXS
     ILLN 318
     MZGRLMZO VMWLDNVMG ULI GSV SFNZMRGRVH
     1100 KVMMHBOEZMRZ ZEVMFV, M.D.
     DZHSRMTGLM, W.X. 20506
     KSLMV:  202 7860358
     UZC:  202 7860243

     N. VOOBM YOZMGLM, WVKFGB WRIVXGLI
     MZGRLMZO WVNLMHGIZGRLM OZYLIZGLIB
       ULI RMGVIZXGREV RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTRVH
     ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH
     KSLMV:  202 7074157
     UZC:  202 7072829

     XSZIOVH N. WLOOZI
     MZGRLMZO ZIXSREVH ZMW IVXLIWH ZWNRMRHGIZGRLM
     MHA IN. 14M
     7GS  KVMMHBOEZMRZ, M.D.
     DZHSRMTGLM, WX 20408
     KSLMV:  202 5015532
     UZC:  202 5015512

     QVUUIVB URVOW, WVKFGB GL GSV WRIVXGLI
     WRERHRLM LU KIVHVIEZGRLM ZMW ZXXVHH
     ILLN 802
     MZGRLMZO VMWLDNVMG ULI GSV SFNZMRGRVH
     1100 KVMMHBOEZMRZ ZEVMFV, M.D.
     DZHSRMTGLM, WX 20506
     KSLMV:  202 7860570
     UZC:  202 7860243

     OLIIRM TZIHLM
     ZNVIRXZM XSVNRXZO HLXRVGB
     IVHVZIXS ZMW WVEVOLKNVMG WVKZIGNVMG
     1155 16GS HGIVVG, M.D.
     DZHSRMTGLM, W.X. 20036
     KSLMV:  202 8724541
     UZC:  VNZRO:  RMGVIMVG:  OIT96ZXH.LIT

     DROORZN N. SLONVH, QI.
     MZGRLMZO ZIXSREVH ZMW IVXLIWH ZWNRMRHGIZGRLM
     MHA IN. 14M
     7GS  KVMMHBOEZMRZ, M.D.
     DZHSRMTGLM, WX 20408
     KSLMV:  202 5015540
     UZC:  202 5015512
     VNZRO:  DSLONVHZNVIRXZM.VWF

     HKVIORMT NZIGRM
     RMULINZGRLM IVHLFIXV NZMZTVNVMG
     20030 WLLORGGOV HGIVVG
     TZRGSVIHYFIT, NW 20879
     KSLMV:  301 9241803

     NRXSZVO MVFNZM, WRIVXGLI
     GSV XVMGVI ULI GVCG ZMW GVXSMLOLTB
     ZXZWVNRX XLNKFGRMT XVMGVI
     238 IVRHH HXRVMXV YFROWRMT
     TVLITVGLDM FMREVIHRGB
     DZHSRMTGLM, WX 20057
     KSLMV:  202 6876096
     UZC:  202 6876003
     VNZRO:  MVFNZMTFEZC.YRGMVG, MVFNZMTFEZC.TVLITVGLDM.VWF

     YZIYZIZ KZFOHLM, KILTIZN LUURXVI
     WRERHRLM LU KIVHVIEZGRLM ZMW ZXXVHH
     ILLN 802
     MZGRLMZO VMWLDNVMG ULI GSV SFNZMRGRVH
     1100 KVMMHBOEZMRZ ZEVMFV, M.D.
     DZHSRMTGLM, WX 20506
     KSLMV:  202 7860577
     UZC:  202 7860243

     ZOOVM S. IVMVZI
     HVMRLI ZXZWVNRX KOZMMRMT ZMZOBHG
     YILDM FMREVIHRGB XLNKFGRMT ZMW RMULINZGRLM HVIERXVH
     115 DZGVINZM HGIVVG
     XZNKFH YLC 1885
     KILERWVMXV, I.R. 02912
     KSLMV:  401 8637312
     UZC:  401 8637329
     VNZRO:  YRGMVG:  ZOOVMYILDMEN LI
     RMGVIMVG:  ZOOVMYILDMEN.YILDM.VWF

     HFHZM N. HVEVIGHLM, KIVHRWVMG
     XSZWDBXPSVZOVB, RMX.
     1101 PRMT HGIVVG
     ZOVCZMWIRZ, EZ 223O4
     KSLMV:  800 75205O5
     UZC:  703 6837589

     UIZMP DRGSILD
     F.H. WVKZIGNVMG LU VWFXZGRLM
     555 MVD QVIHVB ZEVMFV, M.D.
     DZHSRMTGLM, WX 202085644
     KSLMV:  202 2192200
     UZC:  202 2192106


OX HGZUU

     ORMWZ O. ZIIVG
     NZXSRMVIVZWZYOV XLOOVXGRLMH IVZWRMT ILLN OQ 132
     202 7071490

     QLSM W. YBIFN, QI.
     WVHXIRKGREV XZGZOLTRMT WRERHRLM ON 540
     202 7075194

     NZIB QZMV XZEZOOL
     HXRVMXV ZMW GVXSMLOLTB WRERHRLM OZ 5210
     202 7071219

     HFHZM GSVZ WZERW
     XLMTIVHHRLMZO IVHVZIXS HVIERXV ON 226
     202 7077169

     ILYVIG WRVIPVI
     HVMRLI ZWERHVI ULI NFOGRNVWRZ ZXGRERGRVH ON 608
     202 7076151

     DROORZN D. VOORH
     ZHHLXRZGV ORYIZIRZM ULI HXRVMXV ZMW GVXSMLOLTB ON 611
     202 7076928

     ILMZOW TVKSZIG
     NZMFHXIRKG WRERHRLM ON 102
     202 7075097

     QZNVH TIZYVI
     RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTB HVIERXVH ON T51
     202 7079628

     IRXS TIVVMURVOW
     ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB ON 603
     202 7076233

     IVYVXXZ TFVMGSVI
     MVGDLIP WVEVOLKNVMG ON 639
     202 7075092

     PVMMVGS V. SZIIRH
     KIVHVIEZGRLM ON T21
     202 7075213

     HGZOVB SRGXSXLXP
     NZMFHXIRKG WRERHRLM ON 102
     202 7075383

     YLSWZM PZMGLI
     LUURXV LU HKVXRZO KILQVXGH ON 612
     202 7070180

     QLSM D. PRNYZOO, QI
     NZXSRMVIVZWZYOV XLOOVXGRLMH IVZWRMT ILLN OQ 132
     202 7076560

     YZHRO NZMMH
     RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTB HVIERXVH ON T51
     202 7078345

     HZOOB SZIG NXXZOOFN
     MVGDLIP WVEVOLKNVMG ON 639
     202 7076237

     WZMZ Q. KIZGG
     KFYORHSRMT LUURXV ON 602
     202 7076027

     QZMV IRVUVMSZFHVI
     ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB ON 603
     202 7076233

     DROORZN A. HXSVMXP
     XLOOVXGRLMH WVEVOLKNVMG ON 650
     202 7077706

     XSZMWIF Q. HSZSZMR
     KIVHVIEZGRLM IVHVZIXS ZMW GVHGRMT LUURXV IG ON T38
     202 7075607

     DROORZN Q. HRGGRT
