the origin of the Workshop on Electronic Texts in a conversation he had
had considerably more than a year ago with Carl FLEISCHHAUER concerning
some of the issues faced by AM.  On the assumption that numerous other
people were asking the same questions, the decision was made to bring
together as many of these people as possible to ask the same questions
together.  In a deeper sense, GIFFORD said, the origin of the Workshop
lay in the desire of the current Librarian of Congress, James H.
Billington, to make the collections of the Library, especially those
offering unique or unusual testimony on aspects of the American
experience, available to a much wider circle of users than those few
people who can come to Washington to use them.  This meant that the
emphasis of AM, from the outset, has been on archival collections of the
basic material, and on making these collections themselves available,
rather than selected or heavily edited products.

From AMs emphasis followed the questions with which the Workshop began:
who will use these materials, and in what form will they wish to use
them.  But an even larger issue deserving mention, in GIFFORDs view, was
the phenomenal growth in Internet connectivity.  He expressed the hope
that the prospect of greater interconnectedness than ever before would
lead to:  1 much more cooperative and mutually supportive endeavors 2
development of systems of shared and distributed responsibilities to
avoid duplication and to ensure accuracy and preservation of unique
materials and 3 agreement on the necessary standards and development of
the appropriate directories and indices to make navigation
straightforward among the varied resources that are, and increasingly
will be, available.  In this connection, GIFFORD requested that
participants reflect from the outset upon the sorts of outcomes they
thought the Workshop might have.  Did those present constitute a group
with sufficient common interests to propose a next step or next steps,
and if so, what might those be?  They would return to these questions the
following afternoon.

                                 


FLEISCHHAUER  Core of Workshop concerns preparation and production of
materials  Special challenge in conversion of textual materials 
Quality versus quantity  Do the several groups represented share common
interests? 


Carl FLEISCHHAUER, coordinator, American Memory, Library of Congress,
emphasized that he would attempt to represent the people who perform some
of the work of converting or preparing  materials and that the core of
the Workshop had to do with preparation and production.  FLEISCHHAUER
then drew a distinction between the long term, when many things would be
available and connected in the ways that GIFFORD described, and the short
term, in which AM not only has wrestled with the issue of what is the
best course to pursue but also has faced a variety of technical
challenges.

FLEISCHHAUER remarked AMs endeavors to deal with a wide range of library
formats, such as motion picture collections, soundrecording collections,
and pictorial collections of various sorts, especially collections of
photographs.  In the course of these efforts, AM kept coming back to
textual materialsmanuscripts or rare printed matter, bound materials,
etc.  Text posed the greatest conversion challenge of all.  Thus, the
genesis of the Workshop, which reflects the problems faced by AM.  These
problems include physical problems.  For example, those in the library
and archive business deal with collections made up of fragile and rare
manuscript items, bound materials, especially the notoriously brittle
bound materials of the late nineteenth century.  These are precious
cultural artifacts, however, as well as interesting sources of
information, and LC desires to retain and conserve them.  AM needs to
handle things without damaging them.  Guillotining a book to run it
through a sheet feeder must be avoided at all costs.

Beyond physical problems, issues pertaining to quality arose.  For
example, the desire to provide users with a searchable text is affected
by the question of acceptable level of accuracy.  One hundred percent
accuracy is tremendously expensive.  On the other hand, the output of
optical character recognition OCR can be tremendously inaccurate.
Although AM has attempted to find a middle ground, uncertainty persists
as to whether or not it has discovered the right solution.

Questions of quality arose concerning images as well.  FLEISCHHAUER
contrasted the extremely high level of quality of the digital images in
the Cornell Xerox Project with AMs efforts to provide a browsequality
or accessquality image, as opposed to an archival or preservation image.
FLEISCHHAUER therefore welcomed the opportunity to compare notes.

FLEISCHHAUER observed in passing that conversations he had had about
networks have begun to signal that for various forms of media a
determination may be made that there is a browsequality item, or a
distributionandaccessquality item that may coexist in some systems
with a higher quality archival item that would be inconvenient to send
through the network because of its size.  FLEISCHHAUER referred, of
course, to images more than to searchable text.

As AM considered those questions, several conceptual issues arose:  ought
AM occasionally to reproduce materials entirely through an image set, at
other times, entirely through a text set, and in some cases, a mix?
There probably would be times when the historical authenticity of an
artifact would require that its image be used.  An image might be
desirable as a recourse for users if one could not provide 100percent
accurate text.  Again, AM wondered, as a practical matter, if a
distinction could be drawn between rare printed matter that might exist
in multiple collectionsthat is, in ten or fifteen libraries.  In such
cases, the need for perfect reproduction would be less than for unique
items.  Implicit in his remarks, FLEISCHHAUER conceded, was the admission
that AM has been tilting strongly towards quantity and drawing back a
little from perfect quality.  That is, it seemed to AM that society would
be better served if more things were distributed by LCeven if they were
not quite perfectthan if fewer things, perfectly represented, were
distributed.  This was stated as a proposition to be tested, with
responses to be gathered from users.

In thinking about issues related to reproduction of materials and seeing
other people engaged in parallel activities, AM deemed it useful to
convene a conference.  Hence, the Workshop.  FLEISCSSZFVI GSVIVFKLM
HFIEVBVW GSV HVEVIZO TILFKH IVKIVHVMGVW:  1 GSV DLIOW LU RNZTVH RNZTV
FHVIH ZMW RNZTV NZPVIH 2 GSV DLIOW LU GVCG ZMW HXSLOZIHSRK ZMW, DRGSRM
GSRH TILFK, GSLHV XLMXVIMVW DRGS OZMTFZTVUOVRHXSSZFVI XLMUVHHVW GL URMWRMT
WVORTSGUFO RILMB RM GSV UZXG GSZG HLNV LU GSV NLHG ZWEZMXVW GSRMPVIH LM
XLNKFGVIRAVW GVCGH ZIV GSLHV WVZORMT DRGS ZMXRVMG TIVVP ZMW ILNZM NZGVIRZOH
3 GSV MVGDLIP DLIOW ZMW 4 GSV TVMVIZO DLIOW LU ORYIZIB HXRVMXV, DSRXS
RMXOFWVH KVLKOV RMGVIVHGVW RM KIVHVIEZGRLM ZMW XZGZOLTRMT.

UOVRHXSSZFVI XLMXOFWVW SRH IVNZIPH DRGS HKVXRZO GSZMPH GL GSV WZERW ZMW
OFXROV KZXPZIW ULFMWZGRLM ULI RGH HFKKLIG LU GSV NVVGRMT, GSV ZNVIRXZM
NVNLIB TILFK, GSV LUURXV ULI HXSLOZIOB KILTIZNH, GSV MZGRLMZO
WVNLMHGIZGRLM OZY, ZMW GSV LUURXV LU HKVXRZO VEVMGH.  SV VCKIVHHVW GSV
SLKV GSZG WZERW DLLWOVB KZXPZIW NRTSG YV ZYOV GL ZGGVMW, MLGRMT GSZG
KZXPZIWH DLIP ZMW GSV DLIP LU GSV ULFMWZGRLM SZW HKLMHLIVW Z MFNYVI LU
KILQVXGH RM GSV GVCG ZIVZ.

                                 

HVHHRLM R.  XLMGVMG RM Z MVD ULIN:   DSL DROO FHV RG ZMW DSZG DROO GSVB WL?


WZOB  ZXPMLDOVWTVNVMGH  Z MVD OZGRM ZFGSLIH WRHP   VUUVXGH LU GSV MVD
GVXSMLOLTB LM KIVERLFH NVGSLWH LU IVHVZIXS 


HVIERMT ZH NLWVIZGLI, QZNVH WZOB ZXPMLDOVWTVW GSV TVMVILHRGB LU ZOO GSV
KIVHVMGVIH ULI TRERMT LU GSVRI GRNV, XLFMHVO, ZMW KZGRVMXV RM KOZMMRMT
GSV DLIPHSLK, ZH DVOO ZH LU NVNYVIH LU GSV ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB KILQVXG ZMW
LGSVI ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH HGZUU, ZMW GSV WZERW ZMW OFXROV KZXPZIW
ULFMWZGRLM ZMW RGH VCVXFGREV WRIVXGLI, XLOYFIM H. DROYFI.

WZOB GSVM IVXLFMGVW SRH ERHRG RM NZIXS GL GSV XVMGVI ULI VOVXGILMRX GVCGH
RM GSV SFNZMRGRVH XVGS ZMW GSV WVKZIGNVMG LU XOZHHRXH ZG IFGTVIH
FMREVIHRGB, DSVIV ZM LOW UIRVMW, OLDVOO VWNFMWH, RMGILWFXVW SRN GL GSV
WVKZIGNVMGH RYBXFH HXSLOZIOB KVIHLMZO XLNKFGVI, ZMW, RM KZIGRXFOZI, GSV
MVD OZGRM XWILN, XLMGZRMRMT, ZNLMT LGSVI GSRMTH, ZONLHG ZOO XOZHHRXZO
OZGRM ORGVIZIB GVCGH GSILFTS Z.W. 200.  KZXPZIW SFNZMRGRVH RMHGRGFGV
KSR, OLH ZOGLH, XZORULIMRZ, IVOVZHVW GSRH WRHP OZGV RM 1991, DRGS Z
MLNRMZO GIRVMMRZO ORXVMHRMT UVV.

KOZBRMT DRGS GSV WRHP ULI ZM SLFI LI HL ZG IFGTVIH YILFTSG SLNV GL WZOB
ZG LMXV GSV IVELOFGRLMRARMT RNKZXG LU GSV MVD GVXSMLOLTB LM SRH KIVERLFH
NVGSLWH LU IVHVZIXS.  SZW GSRH WRHP YVVM ZEZROZYOV GDL LI GSIVV BVZIH
VZIORVI, WZOB XLMGVMWVW, DSVM SV DZH VMTZTVW RM KIVKZIRMT Z XLNNVMGZIB LM
YLLP 10 LU ERITROH ZVMVRW ULI XZNYIRWTV FMREVIHRGB KIVHH, SV DLFOW MLG
SZEV IVJFRIVW Z ULIGBVRTSGHJFZIVULLG GZYOV LM DSRXS GL HKIVZW GSV
MFNVILFH, NLHG UIVJFVMGOB XLMHFOGVW RGVNH, RMXOFWRMT HLNV GVM LI GDVOEV
XLMXLIWZMXVH GL PVB OZGRM ZFGSLIH, ZM ZONLHG VJFZO MFNYVI LU OVCRXZ GL
ZFGSLIH DSL OZXPVW XLMXLIWZMXVH, ZMW DSVIV VRGSVI OVCRXZ LI XLMXLIWZMXVH
DVIV OZXPRMT, MFNVILFH VWRGRLMH LU ZFGSLIH ZMGVWZGRMT ZMW KLHGWZGRMT ERITRO.

MLI, DSVM XSVXPRMT VZXS LU GSV ZEVIZTV HRC GL HVEVM DLIWH XLMGZRMVW RM
GSV ERITRORZM SVCZNVGVI ULI RGH FHZTV VOHVDSVIV RM ERITROH DLIPH LI
LGSVI OZGRM ZFGSLIH, DLFOW WZOB SZEV SZW GL NZRMGZRM GSV OZYLIRLFH
NVXSZMRXZO KILXVHH LU UORKKRMT GSILFTS GSVHV XLMXLIWZMXVH, OVCRXZ, ZMW
VWRGRLMH VZXS GRNV.  MLI DLFOW SV SZEV SZW GL UIVJFVMG ZH LUGVM GSV
NROGLM H. VRHVMSLDVI ORYIZIB ZG GSV QLSMH SLKPRMH FMREVIHRGB GL XLMHFOG
GSV GSVHZFIFH ORMTFZV OZGRMZV.  RMHGVZW LU WVELGRMT XLFMGOVHH SLFIH, LI
GSV YFOP LU SRH IVHVZIXS GRNV, GL TZGSVIRMT WZGZ XLMXVIMRMT ERITROH FHV
LU DLIWH, WZOBMLD UIVVW YB KSRH OZGRM ZFGSLIH WRHP UILN GSV
GBIZMMRXZO, BVG RM HLNV DZBH KZIZWLCRXZOOB SZKKB HXSLOZIOB WIFWTVIB
DLFOW SZEV YVVM ZYOV GL WVELGV GSZG HZNV YFOP LU GRNV GL ZMZOBARMT ZMW
RMGVIKIVGRMT ERITRORZM EVIYZO FHZTV.

XRGRMT GSVLWLIV YIFMMVI, TIVTLIB XIZMV, VOOR NBOLMZH, ZMW ZEIZ NRXSVOHLM,
WZOB ZITFVW GSZG GSRH IVEVIHZO RM SRH HGBOV LU DLIP, NZWV KLHHRYOV YB GSV
MVD GVXSMLOLTB, DLFOW KVISZKH SZEV IVHFOGVW RM YVGGVI, NLIV KILWFXGREV
IVHVZIXS.  RMWVVW, VEVM RM GSV XLFIHV LU SRH YILDHRMT GSV OZGRM ZFGSLIH
WRHP ZG IFGTVIH, RGH KLDVIUFO HVZIXS, IVGIRVEZO, ZMW SRTSORTSGRMT
XZKZYRORGRVH HFTTVHGVW GL SRN HVEVIZO MVD ZEVMFVH LU IVHVZIXS RMGL
ERITROH FHV LU HLFMW VUUVXGH.  GSRH ZMVXWLGZO ZXXLFMG, WZOB NZRMGZRMVW,
NZB HVIEV GL ROOFHGIZGV RM KZIG GSV HFWWVM ZMW IZWRXZO GIZMHULINZGRLM
YVRMT DILFTSG RM GSV DZBH HXSLOZIH DLIP.

                                 


NRXSVOHLM  VOVNVMGH IVOZGVW GL HXSLOZIHSRK ZMW GVXSMLOLTB  VOVXGILMRX
GVCGH DRGSRM GSV XLMGVCG LU YILZWVI GIVMWH DRGSRM RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTB
ZMW HXSLOZIOB XLNNFMRXZGRLM  VEZOFZGRLM LU GSV KILHKVXGH ULI GSV FHV LU
VOVXGILMRX GVCGH  IVOZGRLMHSRK LU VOVXGILMRX GVCGH GL KILXVHHVH LU
HXSLOZIOB XLNNFMRXZGRLM RM SFNZMRGRVH IVHVZIXS  MVD VCXSZMTV ULINZGH
XIVZGVW YB HXSLOZIH  KILQVXGH RMRGRZGVW GL RMXIVZHV HXSLOZIOB ZXXVHH GL
XLMEVIGVW GVCG  GIVMW GLDZIW NZPRMT VOVXGILMRX IVHLFIXVH ZEZROZYOV
GSILFTS IVHVZIXS ZMW VWFXZGRLM MVGDLIPH  XSZMTVH GZPRMT KOZXV RM
HXSLOZIOB XLNNFMRXZGRLM ZNLMT SFNZMRGRVH HXSLOZIH  MVGDLIPNVWRZGVW
HXSLOZIHSRK GIZMHULINRMT GIZWRGRLMZO HXSLOZIOB KIZXGRXVH  PVB
RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTB GIVMWH ZUUVXGRMT GSV XLMWFXG LU HXSLOZIOB
XLNNFMRXZGRLM LEVI GSV MVCG WVXZWV  GSV GIVMW GLDZIW VMWFHVI XLNKFGRMT
 GSV GIVMW GLDZIW TIVZGVI XLMMVXGRERGB  VUUVXGH LU GSVHV GIVMWH  PVB
GIZMHULINZGRLMH GZPRMT KOZXV  HFNNZIB LU KIRMXRKZO ZITFNVMGH 


ZEIZ NRXSVOHLM, ZIXSREZO IVHVZIXS ZMW VEZOFZGRLM HGZUU, MZGRLMZO ZIXSREVH
ZMW IVXLIWH ZWNRMRHGIZGRLM MZIZ, ZITFVW GSZG VHGZYORHSRMT DSL DROO FHV
VOVXGILMRX GVCGH ZMW DSZG GSVB DROO FHV GSVN ULI RMELOEVH Z XLMHRWVIZGRLM
LU YLGS RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTB ZMW HXSLOZIHSRK GIVMWH.  GSRH
XLMHRWVIZGRLM RMXOFWVH HVEVIZO VOVNVMGH IVOZGVW GL HXSLOZIHSRK ZMW
GVXSMLOLTB:  1 GSV PVB GIVMWH RM RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTB GSZG ZIV NLHG
IVOVEZMG GL HXSLOZIHSRK 2 GSV PVB GIVMWH RM GSV FHV LU XFIIVMGOB
ZEZROZYOV GVXSMLOLTB YB HXSLOZIH RM GSV MLMHXRVMGRURX XLNNFMRGB ZMW 3
GSV IVOZGRLMHSRK YVGDVVM GSVHV GDL EVIB WRHGRMXG YFG RMGVIIVOZGVW GIVMWH.
GSV RMEVHGNVMG RM FMWVIHGZMWRMT GSRH IVOZGRLMHSRK YVRMT NZWV YB
RMULINZGRLM KILERWVIH, GVXSMLOLTRHGH, ZMW KFYORX KLORXB WVEVOLKVIH, ZH
DVOO ZH YB HXSLOZIH GSVNHVOEVH, HVVNH GL YV KVIEZHREV ZMW TILDRMT,
NRXSVOHLM XLMGVMWVW.  HSV WIVD LM XLOOZYLIZGREV DLIP DRGS QVUU ILGSVMYVIT
LM GSV HXSLOZIOB FHV LU GVXSMLOLTB.

NRXSVOHLM HLFTSG GL KOZXV GSV KSVMLNVMLM LU VOVXGILMRX GVCGH DRGSRM GSV
XLMGVCG LU YILZWVI GIVMWH DRGSRM RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTB ZMW HXSLOZIOB
XLNNFMRXZGRLM.  HSV ZITFVW GSZG VOVXGILMRX GVCGH ZIV LU NLHG FHV GL
IVHVZIXSVIH GL GSV VCGVMG GSZG GSV IVHVZIXSVIH DLIPRMT XLMGVCG R.V.,
GSVRI IVOVEZMG YRYORLTIZKSRX HLFIXVH, XLOOVTRZO UVVWYZXP, ZMZOBGRX GLLOH,
MLGVH, WIZUGH, VGX., ZOLMT DRGS GSVRI URVOWH KIRNZIB ZMW HVXLMWZIB
HLFIXVH, ZOHL RH ZXXVHHRYOV RM VOVXGILMRX ULIN ZMW XZM YV RMGVTIZGVW RM
