
Evaluation of the prospects for the use of electronic texts includes two
elements:  1 an examination of the ways in which researchers currently
are using electronic texts along with other electronic resources, and 2
an analysis of key information technology trends that are affecting the
longterm conduct of scholarly communication.  MICHELSON limited her
discussion of the use of electronic texts to the practices of humanists
and noted that the scientific community was outside the panels overview.

MICHELSON examined the nature of the current relationship of electronic
texts in particular, and electronic resources in general, to what she
maintained were, essentially, five processes of scholarly communication
in humanities research.  Researchers 1 identify sources, 2 communicate
with their colleagues, 3 interpret and analyze data, 4 disseminate
their research findings, and 5 prepare curricula to instruct the next
generation of scholars and students.  This examination would produce a
clearer understanding of the synergy among these five processes that
fuels the tendency of the use of electronic resources for one process to
stimulate its use for other processes of scholarly communication.

For the first process of scholarly communication, the identification of
sources, MICHELSON remarked the opportunity scholars now enjoy to
supplement traditional wordofmouth searches for sources among their
colleagues with new forms of electronic searching.  So, for example,
instead of having to visit the library, researchers are able to explore
descriptions of holdings in their offices.  Furthermore, if their own
institutions holdings prove insufficient, scholars can access more than
200 major American library catalogues over Internet, including the
universities of California, Michigan, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin.
Direct access to the bibliographic databases offers intellectual
empowerment to scholars by presenting a comprehensive means of browsing
through libraries from their homes and offices at their convenience.

The second process of communication involves communication among
scholars.  Beyond the most common methods of communication, scholars are
using Email and a variety of new electronic communications formats
derived from it for further academic interchange.  Email exchanges are
growing at an astonishing rate, reportedly 15 percent a month.  They
currently constitute approximately half the traffic on research and
education networks.  Moreover, the global spread of Email has been so
rapid that it is now possible for American scholars to use it to
communicate with colleagues in close to 140 other countries.

Other new exchange formats created by scholars and operating on Internet
include more than 700 conferences, with about 80 percent of these devoted
to topics in the social sciences and humanities.  The rate of growth of
these scholarly electronic conferences also is astonishing.  From l990 to
l991, 200 new conferences were identified on Internet.  From October 1991
to June 1992, an additional 150 conferences in the social sciences and
humanities were added to this directory of listings.  Scholars have
established conferences in virtually every field, within every different
discipline.  For example, there are currently close to 600 active social
science and humanities  conferences on topics such as art and
architecture, ethnomusicology, folklore, Japanese culture, medical
education, and gifted and talented education.  The appeal to scholars of
communicating through these conferences is that, unlike any other medium,
electronic conferences today provide a forum for global communication
with peers at the front end of the research process.

Interpretation and analysis of sources constitutes the third process of
scholarly communication that MICHELSON discussed in terms of texts and
textual resources.  The methods used to analyze sources fall somewhere on
a continuum from quantitative analysis to qualitative analysis.
Typically, evidence is culled and evaluated using methods drawn from both
ends of this continuum.  At one end, quantitative analysis involves the
use of mathematical processes such as a count of frequencies and
distributions of occurrences or, on a higher level, regression analysis.
At the other end of the continuum, qualitative analysis typically
involves nonmathematical processes oriented toward language
interpretation or the building of theory.  Aspects of this work involve
the processingeither manual or computationalof large and sometimes
massive amounts of textual sources, although the use of nontextual
sources as evidence, such as photographs, sound recordings, film footage,
and artifacts, is significant as well.

Scholars have discovered that many of the methods of interpretation and
analysis that are related to both quantitative and qualitative methods
are processes that can be performed by computers.  For example, computers
can count.  They can count brush strokes used in a Rembrandt painting or
perform regression analysis for understanding cause and effect.  By means
of advanced technologies, computers can recognize patterns, analyze text,
and model concepts.  Furthermore, computers can complete these processes
faster with more sources and with greater precision than scholars who
must rely on manual interpretation of data.  But if scholars are to use
computers for these processes, source materials must be in a form
amenable to computerassisted analysis.  For this reason many scholars,
once they have identified the sources that are key to their research, are
converting them to machinereadable form.  Thus, a representative example
of the numerous textual conversion projects organized by scholars around
the world in recent years to support computational text analysis is the
TLG, the Thesaurus Linguae Graecae.  This project is devoted to
converting the extant ancient texts of classical Greece.  Editors note:
according to the TLG Newsletter of May l992, TLG was in use in thirtytwo
different countries.  This figure updates MICHELSONs previous count by one.

The scholars performing these conversions have been asked to recognize
that the electronic sources they are converting for one use possess value
for other research purposes as well.  As a result, during the past few
years, humanities scholars have initiated a number of projects to
increase scholarly access to converted text.  So, for example, the Text
Encoding Initiative TEI, about which more is said later in the program,
was established as an effort by scholars to determine standard elements
and methods for encoding machinereadable text for electronic exchange.
In a second effort to facilitate the sharing of converted text, scholars
have created a new institution, the Center for Electronic Texts in the
Humanities CETH.  The center estimates that there are 8,000 series of
source texts in the humanities that have been converted to
machinereadable form worldwide.  CETH is undertaking an international
search for converted text in the humanities, compiling it into an
electronic library, and preparing bibliographic descriptions of the
sources for the Research Libraries Information Networks RLIN
machinereadable data file.  The library profession has begun to initiate
large conversion projects as well, such as American Memory.

While scholars have been making converted text available to one another,
typically on disk or on CDROM, the clear trend is toward making these
resources available through research and education networks.  Thus, the
American and French Research on the Treasury of the French Language
ARTFL and the Dante Project are already available on Internet.
MICHELSON summarized this section on interpretation and analysis by
noting that:  1 increasing numbers of humanities scholars in the library
community are recognizing the importance to the advancement of
scholarship of retrospective conversion of source materials in the arts
and humanities and 2 there is a growing realization that making the
sources available on research and education networks maximizes their
usefulness for the analysis performed by humanities scholars.

The fourth process of scholarly communication is dissemination of
research findings, that is, publication.  Scholars are using existing
research and education networks to engineer a new type of publication:
scholarlycontrolled journals that are electronically produced and
disseminated.  Although such journals are still emerging as a
communication format, their number has grown, from approximately twelve
to thirtysix during the past year July 1991 to June 1992.  Most of
these electronic scholarly journals are devoted to topics in the
humanities.  As with network conferences, scholarly enthusiasm for these
electronic journals stems from the mediums unique ability to advance
scholarship in a way that no other medium can do by supporting global
feedback and interchange, practically in real time, early in the research
process.  Beyond scholarly journals, MICHELSON remarked the delivery of
commercial fulltext products, such as articles in professional journals,
newsletters, magazines, wire services, and reference sources.  These are
being delivered via online local library catalogues, especially through
CDROMs.  Furthermore, according to MICHELSON, there is general optimism
that the copyright and fees issues impeding the delivery of full text on
existing research and education networks soon will be resolved.

The final process of scholarly communication is curriculum development
and instruction, and this involves the use of computer information
technologies in two areas.  The first is the development of
computeroriented instructional tools, which includes simulations,
multimedia applications, and computer tools that are used to assist in
the analysis of sources in the classroom, etc.  The Perseus Project, a
database that provides a multimedia curriculum on classical Greek
civilization, is a good example of the way in which entire curricula are
being recast using information technologies.  It is anticipated that the
current difficulty in exchanging electronically computerbased
instructional software, which in turn makes it difficult for one scholar
to build upon the work of others, will be resolved before too long.
Standalone curricular applications that involve electronic text will be
sharable through networks, reinforcing their significance as intellectual
products as well as instructional tools.

The second aspect of electronic learning involves the use of research and
education networks for distance education programs.  Such programs
interactively link teachers with students in geographically scattered
locations and rely on the availability of electronic instructional
resources.  Distance education programs are gaining wide appeal among
state departments of education because of their demonstrated capacity to
bring advanced specialized course work and an array of experts to many
classrooms.  A recent report found that at least 32 states operated at
least one statewide network for education in 1991, with networks under
development in many of the remaining states.

MICHELSON summarized this section by noting two striking changes taking
place in scholarly communication among humanities scholars.  First is the
extent to which electronic text in particular, and electronic resources
in general, are being infused into each of the five processes described
above.  As mentioned earlier, there is a certain synergy at work here.
The use of electronic resources for one process tends to stimulate its
use for other processes, because the chief course of movement is toward a
comprehensive online working context for humanities scholars that
includes online availability of key bibliographies, scholarly feedback,
sources, analytical tools, and publications.  MICHELSON noted further
that the movement toward a comprehensive online working context for
humanities scholars is not new.  In fact, it has been underway for more
than forty years in the humanities, since Father Roberto Busa began
developing an electronic concordance of the works of Saint Thomas Aquinas
in 1949.  What we are witnessing today, MICHELSON contended, is not the
beginning of this online transition but, for at least some humanities
scholars, the turning point in the transition from a print to an
electronic working context.  Coinciding with the online transition, the
second striking change is the extent to which research and education
networks are becoming the new medium of scholarly communication.  The
existing Internet and the penWRMT MZGRLMZO VWFXZGRLM ZMW IVHVZIXS MVGDLIP
MIVM IVKIVHVMG GSV MVD NVVGRMT TILFMW DSVIV HXSLOZIH ZIV TLRMT ULI
YRYORLTIZKSRX RMULINZGRLM, HXSLOZIOB WRZOLTFV ZMW UVVWYZXP, GSV NLHG
XFIIVMG KFYORXZGRLMH RM GSVRI URVOW, ZMW SRTSOVEVO VWFXZGRLMZO
LUUVIRMTH.  GIZWRGRLMZO HXSLOZIOB KIZXGRXVH ZIV FMWVITLRMT GIVNVMWLFH
GIZMHULINZGRLMH ZH Z IVHFOG LU GSV VNVITVMXV ZMW TILDRMT KILNRMVMXV LU
DSZG RH XZOOVW MVGDLIPNVWRZGVW HXSLOZIHSRK.

NRXSVOHLM MVCG GFIMVW GL GSV HVXLMW VOVNVMG LU GSV UIZNVDLIP HSV KILKLHVW
ZG GSV LFGHVG LU SVI GZOP ULI VEZOFZGRMT GSV KILHKVXGH ULI VOVXGILMRX
GVCG, MZNVOB GSV PVB RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTB GIVMWH ZUUVXGRMT GSV XLMWFXG
LU HXSLOZIOB XLNNFMRXZGRLM LEVI GSV MVCG WVXZWV:  1 VMWFHVI XLNKFGRMT
ZMW 2 XLMMVXGRERGB.

VMWFHVI XLNKFGRMT NVZMH GSZG GSV KVIHLM GLFXSRMT GSV PVBYLZIW, LI
KVIULINRMT XLNKFGZGRLMH, RH GSV HZNV ZH GSV KVIHLM DSL RMRGRZGVH LI
XLMHFNVH GSV XLNKFGZGRLM.  GSV VNVITVMXV LU KVIHLMZO XLNKFGVIH, ZOLMT
DRGS Z SLHG LU LGSVI ULIXVH, HFXS ZH FYRJFRGLFH XLNKFGRMT, ZWEZMXVH RM
RMGVIUZXV WVHRTM, ZMW GSV LMORMV GIZMHRGRLM, RH KILNKGRMT GSV XLMHFNVIH
LU XLNKFGZGRLM GL WL GSVRI LDM XLNKFGRMT, ZMW RH GSFH IVMWVIRMT LYHLOVGV
GSV GIZWRGRLMZO WRHGRMXGRLM YVGDVVM VMW FHVIH ZMW FOGRNZGV FHVIH.

GSV GIVMW GLDZIW VMWFHVI XLNKFGRMT RH HRTMRURXZMG GL XLMHRWVIZGRLM LU
GSV KILHKVXGH ULI VOVXGILMRX GVCGH YVXZFHV RG NVZMH GSZG IVHVZIXSVIH ZIV
YVXLNRMT NLIV ZWVKG ZG WLRMT GSVRI LDM XLNKFGZGRLMH ZMW, GSFH, NLIV
XLNKVGVMG RM GSV FHV LU VOVXGILMRX NVWRZ.  YB ZELRWRMT KILTIZNNVI
RMGVINVWRZIRVH, XLNKFGZGRLM RH YVXLNRMT XVMGIZO GL GSV IVHVZIXSVIH
GSLFTSG KILXVHH.  GSRH WRIVXG RMELOEVNVMG RM XLNKFGRMT RH XSZMTRMT GSV
IVHVZIXSVIH KVIHKVXGREV LM GSV MZGFIV LU IVHVZIXS RGHVOU, GSZG RH, GSV
PRMWH LU JFVHGRLMH GSZG XZM YV KLHVW, GSV ZMZOBGRXZO NVGSLWLOLTRVH GSZG
XZM YV FHVW, GSV GBKVH ZMW ZNLFMG LU HLFIXVH GSZG ZIV ZKKILKIRZGV ULI
ZMZOBHVH, ZMW GSV ULIN RM DSRXS URMWRMTH ZIV KIVHVMGVW.  GSV GIVMW GLDZIW
VMWFHVI XLNKFGRMT NVZMH GSZG, RMXIVZHRMTOB, VOVXGILMRX NVWRZ ZMW
XLNKFGZGRLM ZIV YVRMT RMUFHVW RMGL ZOO KILXVHHVH LU SFNZMRGRVH
HXSLOZIHSRK, RMHKRIRMT IVNZIPZYOV GIZMHULINZGRLMH RM HXSLOZIOB
XLNNFMRXZGRLM.

GSV GIVMW GLDZIW TIVZGVI XLMMVXGRERGB HFTTVHGH GSZG IVHVZIXSVIH ZIV FHRMT
XLNKFGZGRLM RMXIVZHRMTOB RM MVGDLIP VMERILMNVMGH.  XLMMVXGRERGB RH
RNKLIGZMG GL HXSLOZIHSRK YVXZFHV RG VIZHVH GSV WRHGZMXV GSZG HVKZIZGVH
HGFWVMGH UILN GVZXSVIH ZMW HXSLOZIH UILN GSVRI XLOOVZTFVH, DSROV ZOOLDRMT
FHVIH GL ZXXVHH IVNLGV WZGZYZHVH, HSZIV RMULINZGRLM RM NZMB WRUUVIVMG
NVWRZ, XLMMVXG GL GSVRI DLIPRMT XLMGVCG DSVIVEVI GSVB ZIV, ZMW
XLOOZYLIZGV RM ZOO KSZHVH LU IVHVZIXS.

GSV XLNYRMZGRLM LU GSV GIVMW GLDZIW VMWFHVI XLNKFGRMT ZMW GSV GIVMW
GLDZIW XLMMVXGRERGB HFTTVHGH GSZG GSV HXSLOZIOB FHV LU VOVXGILMRX
IVHLFIXVH, ZOIVZWB VERWVMG ZNLMT HLNV IVHVZIXSVIH, DROO HLLM YVXLNV ZM
VHGZYORHSVW UVZGFIV LU HXSLOZIHSRK.  GSV VUUVXGH LU GSVHV GIVMWH, ZOLMT
DRGS LMTLRMT XSZMTVH RM HXSLOZIOB KIZXGRXVH, KLRMG GL Z UFGFIV RM DSRXS
SFNZMRGRVH IVHVZIXSVIH DROO FHV XLNKFGZGRLM ZMW VOVXGILMRX XLNNFMRXZGRLM
GL SVOK GSVN ULINFOZGV RWVZH, ZXXVHH HLFIXVH, KVIULIN IVHVZIXS,
XLOOZYLIZGV DRGS XLOOVZTFVH, HVVP KVVI IVERVD, KFYORHS ZMW WRHHVNRMZGV
