     primary bibliographic data, going into quality control mode to
     define page size, establishing fronttoback registration, and
     scanning sample pages to identify a default range of settings for
     the entire bookfunctions not dissimilar to those performed by
     filmers or those preparing a book for photocopy.

      The final step in the scanning process involved rescans, which
     happily were few and far between, representing well under 1 percent
     of the total pages scanned.

In addition to technician time, CXP costed out equipment, amortized over
four years, the cost of storing and refreshing the digital files every
four years, and the cost of printing and binding, bookcloth binding, a
paper reproduction.  The total amounted to a little under 65 per single
300page volume, with 30 percent overhead includeda figure competitive
with the prices currently charged by photocopy vendors.

Of course, with scanning, in addition to the paper facsimile, one is left
with a digital file from which subsequent copies of the book can be
produced for a fraction of the cost of photocopy, with readers afforded
choices in the form of these copies.

KENNEY concluded that digital technology offers an electronic means for a
library preservation effort to pay for itself.  If a brittlebook program
included the means of disseminating reprints of books that are in demand
by libraries and researchers alike, the initial investment in capture
could be recovered and used to preserve additional but less popular
books.  She disclosed that an economic model for a selfsustaining
program could be developed for CXPs report to the Commission on
Preservation and Access CPA.

KENNEY stressed that the focus of CXP has been on obtaining high quality
in a production environment.  The use of digital technology is viewed as
an affordable alternative to other reformatting options.

                                 


ANDRE  Overview and history of NATDP  Various agricultural CDROM
products created inhouse and by service bureaus  Pilot project on
Internet transmission  Additional products in progress 


Pamela ANDRE, associate director for automation, National Agricultural
Text Digitizing Program NATDP, National Agricultural Library NAL,
presented an overview of NATDP, which has been underway at NAL the last
four years, before Judith ZIDAR discussed the technical details.  ANDRE
defined agricultural information as a broad range of material going from
basic and applied research in the hard sciences to the onepage pamphlets
that are distributed by the cooperative state extension services on such
things as how to grow blueberries.

NATDP began in late 1986 with a meeting of representatives from the
landgrant library community to deal with the issue of electronic
information.  NAL and fortyfive of these libraries banded together to
establish this projectto evaluate the technology for converting what
were then source documents in paper form into electronic form, to provide
access to that digital information, and then to distribute it.
Distributing that material to the communitythe university community as
well as the extension service community, potentially down to the county
levelconstituted the groups chief concern.

Since January 1988 when the microcomputerbased scanning system was
installed at NAL, NATDP has done a variety of things, concerning which
ZIDAR would provide further details.  For example, the first technology
considered in the projects discussion phase was digital videodisc, which
indicates how long ago it was conceived.

Over the four years of this project, four separate CDROM products on
four different agricultural topics were created, two at a
scanningandOCR station installed at NAL, and two by service bureaus.
Thus, NATDP has gained comparative information in terms of those relative
costs.  Each of these products contained the full ASCII text as well as
page images of the material, or between 4,000 and 6,000 pages of material
on these disks.  Topics included aquaculture, food, agriculture and
science i.e., international agriculture and research, acid rain, and
Agent Orange, which was the final product distributed approximately
eighteen months before the Workshop.

The third phase of NATDP focused on delivery mechanisms other than
CDROM.  At the suggestion of Clifford LYNCH, who was a technical
consultant to the project at this point, NATDP became involved with the
Internet and initiated a project with the help of North Carolina State
University, in which fourteen of the landgrant university libraries are
transmitting digital images over the Internet in response to interlibrary
loan requestsa topic for another meeting.  At this point, the pilot
project had been completed for about a year and the final report would be
available shortly after the Workshop.  In the meantime, the projects
success had led to its extension.  ANDRE noted that one of the first
things done under the program title was to select a retrieval package to
use with subsequent products Windows Personal Librarian was the package
of choice after a lengthy evaluation.

Three additional products had been planned and were in progress:

     1 An arrangement with the American Society of Agronomya
     professional society that has published the Agronomy Journal since
     about 1908to scan and create bitmapped images of its journal.
     ASA granted permission first to put and then to distribute this
     material in electronic form, to hold it at NAL, and to use these
     electronic images as a mechanism to deliver documents or print out
     material for patrons, among other uses.  Effectively, NAL has the
     right to use this material in support of its program.
     Significantly, this arrangement offers a potential cooperative
     model for working with other professional societies in agriculture
     to try to do the same thingput the journals of particular interest
     to agriculture research into electronic form.

     2 An extension of the earlier product on aquaculture.

     3 The George Washington Carver Papersa joint project with
     Tuskegee University to scan and convert from microfilm some 3,500
     images of Carvers papers, letters, and drawings.

It was anticipated that all of these products would appear no more than
six months after the Workshop.

                                 


ZIDAR  A separate arena for scanning  Steps in creating a database 
Image capture, with and without performing OCR  Keying in tracking data
 Scanning, with electronic and manual tracking  Adjustments during
scanning process  Scanning resolutions  Compression  Deskewing and
filtering  Image capture from microform:  the papers and letters of
George Washington Carver  Equipment used for a scanning system 


Judith ZIDAR, coordinator, National Agricultural Text Digitizing Program
NATDP, National Agricultural Library NAL, illustrated the technical
details of NATDP, including her primary responsibility, scanning and
creating databases on a topic and putting them on CDROM.

ZIDAR remarked a separate arena from the CDROM projects, although the
processing of the material is nearly identical, in which NATDP is also
scanning material and loading it on a Next microcomputer, which in turn
is linked to NALs integrated library system.  Thus, searches in NALs
bibliographic database will enable people to pull up actual page images
and text for any documents that have been entered.

In accordance with the sessions topic, ZIDAR focused her illustrated
talk on image capture, offering a primer on the three main steps in the
process:  1 assemble the printed publications 2 design the database
database design occurs in the process of preparing the material for
scanning this step entails reviewing and organizing the material,
defining the contentswhat will constitute a record, what kinds of
fields will be captured in terms of author, title, etc. 3 perform a
certain amount of markup on the paper publications.  NAL performs this
task record by record, preparing work sheets or some other sort of
tracking material and designing descriptors and other enhancements to be
added to the data that will not be captured from the printed publication.
Part of this process also involves determining NATDPs file and directory
structure:  NATDP attempts to avoid putting more than approximately 100
images in a directory, because placing more than that on a CDROM would
reduce the access speed.

This upfront process takes approximately two weeks for a
6,0007,000page database.  The next step is to capture the page images.
How long this process takes is determined by the decision whether or not
to perform OCR.  Not performing OCR speeds the process, whereas text
capture requires greater care because of the quality of the image:  it
has to be straighter and allowance must be made for text on a page, not
just for the capture of photographs.

NATDP keys in tracking data, that is, a standard bibliographic record
including the title of the book and the title of the chapter, which will
later either become the access information or will be attached to the
front of a fulltext record so that it is searchable.

Images are scanned from a bound or unbound publication, chiefly from
bound publications in the case of NATDP, however, because often they are
the only copies and the publications are returned to the shelves.  NATDP
usually scans one record at a time, because its database tracking system
tracks the document in that way and does not require further logical
separating of the images.  After performing optical character
recognition, NATDP moves the images off the hard disk and maintains a
volume sheet.  Though the system tracks electronically, all the
processing steps are also tracked manually with a log sheet.

ZIDAR next illustrated the kinds of adjustments that one can make when
scanning from paper and microfilm, for example, redoing images that need
special handling, setting for dithering or gray scale, and adjusting for
brightness or for the whole book at one time.

NATDP is scanning at 300 dots per inch, a standard scanning resolution.
Though adequate for capturing text that is all of a standard size, 300
dpi is unsuitable for any kind of photographic material or for very small
text.  Many scanners allow for different image formats, TIFF, of course,
being a de facto standard.  But if one intends to exchange images with
other people, the ability to scan other image formats, even if they are
less common, becomes highly desirable.

CCITT Group 4 is the standard compression for normal blackandwhite
images, JPEG for gray scale or color.   ZIDAR recommended 1 using the
standard compressions, particularly if one attempts to make material
available and to allow users to download images and reuse them from
CDROMs and 2 maintaining the ability to output an uncompressed image,
because in image exchange uncompressed images are more likely to be able
to cross platforms.

ZIDAR emphasized the importance of deskewing and filtering as
requirements on NATDPs upgraded system.  For instance, scanning bound
books, particularly books published by the federal government whose pages
are skewed, and trying to scan them straight if OCR is to be performed,
is extremely timeconsuming.  The same holds for filtering of
poorquality or older materials.

ZIDAR described image capture from microform, using as an example three
reels from a sixtysevenreel set of the papers and letters of George
Washington Carver that had been produced by Tuskegee University.  These
resulted in approximately 3,500 images, which NATDP had had scanned by
its service contractor, Science Applications International Corporation
SAIC.  NATDP also created bibliographic records for access.  NATDP did
not have such specialized equipment as a microfilm scanner.

Unfortunately, the process of scanning from microfilm was not an
unqualified success, ZIDAR reported:  because microfilm frame sizes vary,
occasionally some frames were missed, which without spending much time
and money could not be recaptured.

OCR could not be performed from the scanned images of the frames.  The
bleeding in the text simply output text, when OCR was run, that could not
even be edited.  NATDP tested for negative versus positive images,
landscape versus portrait orientation, and single versus dualpage
microfilm, none of which seemed to affect the quality of the image but
also on none of them could OCR be performed.

In selecting the microfilm they would use, therefore, NATDP had other
factors in mind.  ZIDAR noted two factors that influenced the quality of
the images:  1 the inherent quality of the original and 2 the amount of
size reduction on the pages.

The Carver papers were selected because they are informative and visually
interesting, treat a single subject, and are valuable in their own right.
The images were scanned and divided into logical records by SAIC, then
delivered, and loaded onto NATDPs system, where bibliographic
information taken directly from the images was added.  Scanning was
completed in summer 1991 and by the end of summer 1992 the disk was
scheduled to be published.

Problems encountered during processing included the following:  Because
the microfilm scanning had to be done in a batch, adjustment for
individual page variations was not possible.  The frame size varied on
account of the nature of the material, and therefore some of the frames
were missed while others were just partial fraNVH.  GSV LMOB DZB GL TL
YZXP ZMW XZKGFIV GSRH NZGVIRZO DZH GL KIRMG LFG GSV KZTV DRGS GSV
NRXILURON IVZWVI UILN GSV NRHHRMT UIZNV ZMW GSVM HXZM RG RM UILN GSV
KZTV, DSRXS DZH VCGIVNVOB GRNVXLMHFNRMT.  GSV JFZORGB LU GSV RNZTVH
HXZMMVW UILN GSV KIRMGLFG LU GSV NRXILURON XLNKZIVW FMUZELIZYOB DRGS GSZG
LU GSV LIRTRMZO RNZTVH XZKGFIVW WRIVXGOB UILN GSV NRXILURON.  GSV
RMZYRORGB GL KVIULIN LXI ZOHL DZH Z NZQLI WRHZKKLRMGNVMG.  ZG GSV GRNV,
XLNKFGVI LFGKFG NRXILURON DZH FMZEZROZYOV GL GVHG.

GSV VJFRKNVMG FHVW ULI Z HXZMMRMT HBHGVN DZH GSV OZHG GLKRX ZWWIVHHVW YB
ARWZI.  GSV GBKV LU VJFRKNVMG GSZG LMV DLFOW KFIXSZHV ULI Z HXZMMRMT
HBHGVN RMXOFWVW:  Z NRXILXLNKFGVI, ZG OVZHG Z 386, YFG KIVUVIZYOB Z 486
Z OZITV SZIW WRHP, 380 NVTZYBGV ZG NRMRNFN Z NFOGRGZHPRMT LKVIZGRMT
HBHGVN GSZG ZOOLDH LMV GL IFM HLNV GSRMTH RM YZGXS RM GSV YZXPTILFMW
DSROV HXZMMRMT LI WLRMT GVCG VWRGRMT, ULI VCZNKOV, FMRC LI LH2 ZMW,
GSVLIVGRXZOOB, DRMWLDH Z SRTSHKVVW HXZMMVI ZMW HXZMMRMT HLUGDZIV GSZG
ZOOLDH LMV GL NZPV GSV EZIRLFH ZWQFHGNVMGH NVMGRLMVW VZIORVI Z
SRTSIVHLOFGRLM NLMRGLI 150 WKR  LXI HLUGDZIV ZMW SZIWDZIV GL KVIULIN
GVCG IVXLTMRGRLM ZM LKGRXZO WRHP HFYHBHGVN LM DSRXS GL ZIXSREV ZOO GSV
RNZTVH ZH GSV KILXVHHRMT RH WLMV UROV NZMZTVNVMG ZMW GIZXPRMT HLUGDZIV.

ARWZI LKRMVW GSZG GSV HLUGDZIV LMV KFIXSZHVH DZH NLIV RNKLIGZMG GSZM GSV
SZIWDZIV ZMW NRTSG ZOHL XLHG NLIV GSZM GSV SZIWDZIV, YFG RG DZH ORPVOB GL
KILEV XIRGRXZO GL GSV HFXXVHH LI UZROFIV LU LMVH HBHGVN.  RM ZWWRGRLM GL
Z HGZMWZOLMV HXZMMRMT DLIPHGZGRLM ULI RNZTV XZKGFIV, GSVM, GVCG XZKGFIV
IVJFRIVH LMV LI GDL VWRGRMT HGZGRLMH MVGDLIPVW GL GSRH HXZMMRMT HGZGRLM
GL KVIULIN VWRGRMT.  VWRGRMT GSV GVCG GZPVH GDL LI GSIVV GRNVH ZH OLMT ZH
XZKGFIRMT GSV RNZTVH.

URMZOOB, ARWZI HGIVHHVW GSV RNKLIGZMXV LU YFBRMT ZM LKVM HBHGVN GSZG ZOOLDH
ULI NLIV GSZM LMV EVMWLI, XLNKORVH DRGS HGZMWZIWH, ZMW XZM YV FKTIZWVW.

                                 


DZGVIH BZOV FMREVIHRGB ORYIZIBH NZHGVI KOZM GL XLMEVIG NRXILURON GL
WRTRGZO RNZTVIB KLY  GSV KOZXV LU VOVXGILMRX GLLOH RM GSV ORYIZIB LU
GSV UFGFIV  GSV FHVH LU RNZTVH ZMW ZM RNZTV ORYIZIB  KIRNZIB RMKFG UILN
KIVHVIEZGRLM NRXILURON  UVZGFIVH WRHGRMTFRHSRMT KLY UILN XCK ZMW PVB
SBKLGSVHVH TFRWRMT KLY  FHV LU EVMWLI HVOVXGRLM KILXVHH GL UZXRORGZGV
LITZMRAZGRLMZO DLIP  XIRGVIRZ ULI HVOVXGRMT EVMWLI  URMZORHGH ZMW
IVHFOGH LU KILXVHH ULI BZOV  PVB UZXGLI WRHGRMTFRHSRMT EVMWLIH 
