complicated representations of text entails the need for a grammar of
documents  Variety of forms of formal grammars  Text as a bitmapped
image does not represent a serious attempt to represent text in
electronic form  SGML, the TEI, documenttype declarations, and the
reusability and longevity of data  TEI conformance explicitly allows
extension or modification of the TEI tag set  Administrative background
of the TEI  Several design goals for the TEI tag set  An absolutely
fixed requirement of the TEI Guidelines  Challenges the TEI has
attempted to face  Good texts not beyond economic feasibility  The
issue of reproducibility or processability  The issue of mages as
simulacra for the text redux  Ones model of text determines what ones
software can do with a text and has economic consequences 


Prior to speaking about SGML and markup, Michael SPERBERGMcQUEEN, editor,
Text Encoding Initiative TEI, University of IllinoisChicago, first drew
a distinction between texts and computers:  Texts are abstract cultural
and linguistic objects while computers are complicated physical devices,
he said.  Abstract objects cannot be placed inside physical devices with
computers one can only represent text and act upon those representations.

The recognition that all representation is encoding, SPERBERGMcQUEEN
argued, leads to the recognition of two things:  1 The topic description
for this session is slightly misleading, because there can be no discussion
of pros and cons of textcoding unless what one means is pros and cons of
working with text with computers.  2 No text can be represented in a
computer without some sort of encoding images are one way of encoding text,
ASCII is another, SGML yet another.  There is no encoding without some
information loss, that is, there is no perfect reproduction of a text that
allows one to do away with the original.  Thus, the question becomes,
What is the most useful representation of text for a serious work?
This depends on what kind of serious work one is talking about.

The projects demonstrated the previous day all involved highly complex
information and fairly complex manipulation of the textual material.
In order to use that complicated information, one has to calculate it
slowly or manually and store the result.  It needs to be stored, therefore,
as part of ones representation of the text.  Thus, one needs to store the
structure in the text.  To deal with complicated representations of text,
one needs somehow to control the complexity of the representation of a text
that means one needs a way of finding out whether a document and an
electronic representation of a document is legal or not and that
means one needs a grammar of documents.

SPERBERGMcQUEEN discussed the variety of forms of formal grammars,
implicit and explicit, as applied to text, and their capabilities.  He
argued that these grammars correspond to different models of text that
different developers have.  For example, one implicit model of the text
is that there is no internal structure, but just one thing after another,
a few characters and then perhaps a starttitle command, and then a few
more characters and an endtitle command.  SPERBERGMcQUEEN also
distinguished several kinds of text that have a sort of hierarchical
structure that is not very well defined, which, typically, corresponds
to grammars that are not very well defined, as well as hierarchies that
are very well defined e.g., the Thesaurus Linguae Graecae and extremely
complicated things such as SGML, which handle strictly hierarchical data
very nicely.

SPERBERGMcQUEEN conceded that one other model not illustrated on his two
displays was the model of text as a bitmapped image, an image of a page,
and confessed to having been converted to a limited extent by the
Workshop to the view that electronic images constitute a promising,
probably superior alternative to microfilming.  But he was not convinced
that electronic images represent a serious attempt to represent text in
electronic form.  Many of their problems stem from the fact that they are
not direct attempts to represent the text but attempts to represent the
page, thus making them representations of representations.

In this situation of increasingly complicated textual information and the
need to control that complexity in a useful way which begs the question
of the need for good textual grammars, one has the introduction of SGML.
With SGML, one can develop specific documenttype declarations
for specific text types or, as with the TEI, attempts to generate
general documenttype declarations that can handle all sorts of text.
The TEI is an attempt to develop formats for text representation that
will ensure the kind of reusability and longevity of data discussed earlier.
It offers a way to stay alive in the state of permanent technological
revolution.

It has been a continuing challenge in the TEI to create document grammars
that do some work in controlling the complexity of the textual object but
also allowing one to represent the real text that one will find.
Fundamental to the notion of the TEI is that TEI conformance allows one
the ability to extend or modify the TEI tag set so that it fits the text
that one is attempting to represent.

SPERBERGMcQUEEN next outlined the administrative background of the TEI.
The TEI is an international project to develop and disseminate guidelines
for the encoding and interchange of machinereadable text.  It is
sponsored by the Association for Computers in the Humanities, the
Association for Computational Linguistics, and the Association for
Literary and Linguistic Computing.  Representatives of numerous other
professional societies sit on its advisory board.  The TEI has a number
of affiliated projects that have provided assistance by testing drafts of
the guidelines.

Among the design goals for the TEI tag set, the scheme first of all must
meet the needs of research, because the TEI came out of the research
community, which did not feel adequately served by existing tag sets.
The tag set must be extensive as well as compatible with existing and
emerging standards.  In 1990, version 1.0 of the Guidelines was released
SPERBERGMcQUEEN illustrated their contents.

SPERBERGMcQUEEN noted that one problem besetting electronic text has
been the lack of adequate internal or external documentation for many
existing electronic texts.  The TEI guidelines as currently formulated
contain few fixed requirements, but one of them is this:  There must
always be a document header, an infile SGML tag that provides
1 a bibliographic description of the electronic object one is talking
about that is, who included it, when, what for, and under which title
and 2 the copy text from which it was derived, if any.  If there was
no copy text or if the copy text is unknown, then one states as much.
Version 2.0 of the Guidelines was scheduled to be completed in fall 1992
and a revised third version is to be presented to the TEI advisory board
for its endorsement this coming winter.  The TEI itself exists to provide
a markup language, not a markedup text.

Among the challenges the TEI has attempted to face is the need for a
markup language that will work for existing projects, that is, handle the
level of markup that people are using now to tag only chapter, section,
and paragraph divisions and not much else.  At the same time, such a
language also will be able to scale up gracefully to handle the highly
detailed markup which many people foresee as the future destination of
much electronic text, and which is not the future destination but the
present home of numerous electronic texts in specialized areas.

SPERBERGMcQUEEN dismissed the lowestcommondenominator approach as
unable to support the kind of applications that draw people who have
never been in the public library regularly before, and make them come
back.  He advocated more interesting text and more intelligent text.
Asserting that it is not beyond economic feasibility to have good texts,
SPERBERGMcQUEEN noted that the TEI Guidelines listing 200odd tags
contains tags that one is expected to enter every time the relevant
textual feature occurs.  It contains all the tags that people need now,
and it is not expected that everyone will tag things in the same way.

The question of how people will tag the text is in large part a function
of their reaction to what SPERBERGMcQUEEN termed the issue of
reproducibility.  What one needs to be able to reproduce are the things
one wants to work with.  Perhaps a more useful concept than that of
reproducibility or recoverability is that of processability, that is,
what can one get from an electronic text without reading it again
in the original.  He illustrated this contention with a page from
Jan Comeniuss bilingual Introduction to Latin.

SPERBERGMcQUEEN returned at length to the issue of images as simulacra
for the text, in order to reiterate his belief that in the long run more
than images of pages of particular editions of the text are needed,
because just as secondgeneration photocopies and secondgeneration
microfilm degenerate, so secondgeneration representations tend to
degenerate, and one tends to overstress some relatively trivial aspects
of the text such as its layout on the page, which is not always
significant, despite what the text critics might say, and slight other
pieces of information such as the very important lexical ties between the
English and Latin versions of Comeniuss bilingual text, for example.
Moreover, in many crucial respects it is easy to fool oneself concerning
what a scanned image of the text will accomplish.  For example, in order
to study the transmission of texts, information concerning the text
carrier is necessary, which scanned images simply do not always handle.
Further, even the highquality materials being produced at Cornell use
much of the information that one would need if studying those books as
physical objects.  It is a choice that has been made.  It is an arguably
justifiable choice, but one does not know what color those pen strokes in
the margin are or whether there was a stain on the page, because it has
been filtered out.  One does not know whether there were rips in the page
because they do not show up, and on a couple of the marginal marks one
loses half of the mark because the pen is very light and the scanner
failed to pick it up, and so what is clearly a checkmark in the margin of
the original becomes a little scoop in the margin of the facsimile.
Standard problems for facsimile editions, not new to electronics, but
also true of lightlens photography, and are remarked here because it is
important that we not fool ourselves that even if we produce a very nice
image of this page with good contrast, we are not replacing the
manuscript any more than microfilm has replaced the manuscript.

The TEI comes from the research community, where its first allegiance
lies, but it is not just an academic exercise.  It has relevance far
beyond those who spend all of their time studying text, because ones
model of text determines what ones software can do with a text.  Good
models lead to good software.  Bad models lead to bad software.  That has
economic consequences, and it is these economic consequences that have
led the European Community to help support the TEI, and that will lead,
SPERBERGMcQUEEN hoped, some software vendors to realize that if they
provide software with a better model of the text they can make a killing.

                                 


DISCUSSION  Implications of different DTDs and tag sets  ODA versus SGML 


During the discussion that followed, several additional points were made.
Neither AAP i.e., Association of American Publishers nor CALS i.e.,
Computeraided Acquisition and Logistics Support has a documenttype
definition for ancient Greek drama, although the TEI will be able to
handle that.  Given this state of affairs and assuming that the
technicaljournal producers and the commercial vendors decide to use the
other two types, then an institution like the Library of Congress, which
might receive all of their publications, would have to be able to handle
three different types of document definitions and tag sets and be able to
distinguish among them.

Office Document Architecture ODA has some advantages that flow from its
tight focus on office documents and clear directions for implementation.
Much of the ODA standard is easier to read and clearer at first reading
than the SGML standard, which is extremely general.  What that means is
that if one wants to use graphics in TIFF and ODA, one is stuck, because
ODA defines graphics formats while TIFF does not, whereas SGML says the
world is not waiting for this work group to create another graphics format.
What is needed is an ability to use whatever graphics format one wants.

The TEI provides a socket that allows one to connect the SGML document to
the graphics.  The notation that the graphics are in is clearly a choice
that one needs to make based on her or his environment, and that is one
advantage.  SGML is less megalomaniacal in attempting to define formats
for all kinds of information, though more megalomaniacal in attempting to
cover all sorts of documents.  The other advantage is that the model of
text represented by SGML is simply an order of magnitude richer and more
flexible than the model of text offered by ODA.  Both offer hierarchical
structures, but SGML recognizes that the hierarchical model of the text
that one is looking at may not have been in the minds of the designers,
whereas ODA does not.

ODA is not really aiming for the kind of document that the TEI wants to
encompass.  The TEI can handle the kind of material ODA has, as well as a
significantly broader range of material.  ODA seems to be very much
focused on office documents, which is what it started out being called
office document architecture.

                                 


CALALUCA  Textencoding from a publishers perspective 
Responsibilities of a publisher  Reproduction of Mignes Latin series
whole and complete with SGML tags based on perceived need and expected
use  Particular decisions arising from the general decision to produce
and publish PLD 


The final speaker in this session, Eric CALALUCA, vice president,
ChadwyckHealey, Inc., spoke from the perspective of a publisher re
textencoding, rather than as one qualified to discuss methods of
encoding data, and observed that the presenters sitting in the room,
whether they had chosen to or not, were acting as publishers:  making
choices, gathering data, gathering information, and making assessments.
CALALUCA offered the hardwon conviction that in publishing very large
text files such as PLD, one cannot avoid making personal judgments of
appropriateness and structure.

In CALALUCAs view, encoding decisions stem from prior judgments.  Two
notions have become axioms for him in the consideration of future sources
for electronic publication:  1 electronic text publishing is as personal
as any other kind of publishing, and questions of if and how to encode
the data are simply a consequence of that prior decision  2 all
personal decisions are open to criticism, which is unavoidable.

CALALUCA rehearsed his role as a publisher or, better, as an intermediary
between what is viewed as a sound idea and the people who would make use
of it.  Finding the specialist to advise in this process is the core of
that function.  The publisher must monitor and hug the fine line between
giving users what they want and suggesting what they might need.  One
responsibility of a publisher is to represent the desires of scholars and
research librarians as opposed to bullheadedly forcing them into areas
they would not choose to enter.

CALALUCA likened the questions being raised today about data structure
and standards to the decisions faced by the Abbe Migne himself during
production of the Patrologia series in the midnineteenth century.
ChadwyckHealeys decision to reproduce Mignes Latin series whole and
complete with SGML tags was also based upon a perceived need and an
expected use.  In the same way that Mignes work came to be far more than
a simple handbook for clerics, PLD is already far more than a database
for theologians.  It is a bedrock source for the study of Western
civilization, CALALUCA asserted.

In regard to the decision to produce and publish PLD, the editorial board
offered direct judgments on the question of appropriateness of these
texts for conversion, their encoding and their distribution, and
concluded that the best possible project was one that avoided overt
intrusions or exclusions in so important a resource.  Thus, the general
decision to transmit the original collection as clearly as possible with
the widest possible avenues for use led to other decisions:  1 To encode
the data or not, SGML or not, TEI or not.  Again, the expected user
community asserted the need for normative tagging structures of important
humanities texts, and the TEI seemed the most appropriate structure for
that purpose.  Research librarians, who are trained to view the larger
impact of electronic text sources on 80 or 90 or 100 doctoral
disciplines, loudly approved the decision to include tagging.  They see
what is coming better than the specialist who is completely focused on
one edition of Ambroses De Anima, and they also understand that the
potential uses exceed present expectations.  2 What will be tagged and
what will not.  Once again, the board realized that one must tag the
obvious.  But in no way should one attempt to identify through encoding
schemes every single discrete area of a text that might someday be
searched.  That was another decision.  Searching by a column number, an
author, a word, a volume, permitting combination searches, and tagging
notations seemed logical choices as core elements.  3 How does one make
the data available?  Tieing it to a CDROM edition creates limitations,
but a magnetic tape file that is very large, is accompanied by the
encoding specifications, and that allows one to make local modifications
also allows one to incorporate any changes one may desire within the
bounds of private research, though exporting tag files from a CDROM
could serve just as well.  Since no one on the board could possibly
anticipate each and every way in which a scholar might choose to mine
this data bank, it was decided to satisfy the basics and make some
provisions for what might come.  4 Not to encode the database would rob
it of the interchangeability and portability these important texts should
accommodate.  For CALALUCA, the extensive options presented by fulltext
searching require care in text selection and strongly support encoding of
data to facilitate the widest possible search strategies.  Better
software can always be created, but summoning the resources, the people,
and the energy to reconvert the text is another matter.

PLD is being encoded, captured, and distributed, because to
ChadwyckHealey and the board it offers the widest possible array of
future research applications that can be seen today.  CALALUCA concluded
by urging the encoding of all important text sources in whatever way
seems most appropriate and durable at the time, without blanching at the
thought that ones work may require emendation in the future.  Thus,
ChadwyckHealey produced a very large humanities text database before the
final release of the TEI Guidelines.

                                 


DISCUSSION  Creating texts with markup advocated  Trends in encoding 
The TEI and the issue of interchangeability of standards  A
misconception concerning the TEI  Implications for an institution like
LC in the event that a multiplicity of DTDs develops  Producing images
as a first step towards possible conversion to full text through
character recognition  The AAP tag sets as a common starting point and
the need for caution 


HOCKEY prefaced the discussion that followed with several comments in
favor of creating texts with markup and on trends in encoding.  In the
future, when many more texts are available for online searching, real
problems in finding what is wanted will develop, if one is faced with
millions of words of data.  It therefore becomes important to consider
putting markup in texts to help searchers home in on the actual things
they wish to retrieve.  Various approaches to refining retrieval methods
toward this end include building on a computer version of a dictionary
and letting the computer look up words in it to obtain more information
about the semantic structure or semantic field of a word, its grammatical
structure, and syntactic structure.

HOCKEY commented on the present keen interest in the encoding world
in creating:  1 machinereadable versions of dictionaries that can be
initially tagged in SGML, which gives a structure to the dictionary entry
these entries can then be converted into a more rigid or otherwise
different database structure inside the computer, which can be treated as
a dynamic tool for searching mechanisms 2 large bodies of text to study
the language.  In order to incorporate more sophisticated mechanisms,
more about how words behave needs to be known, which can be learned in
part from information in dictionaries.  However, the last ten years have
seen much interest in studying the structure of printed dictionaries
converted into computerreadable form.  The information one derives about
many words from those is only partial, one or two definitions of the
common or the usual meaning of a word, and then numerous definitions of
unusual usages.  If the computer is using a dictionary to help retrieve
words in a text, it needs much more information about the common usages,
because those are the ones that occur over and over again.  Hence the
current interest in developing large bodies of text in computerreadable
form in order to study the language.  Several projects are engaged in
compiling, for example, 100 million words. HOCKEY described one with
which she was associated briefly at Oxford University involving
compilation of 100 million words of British English:  about 10 percent of
that will contain detailed linguistic tagging encoded in SGML it will
have word class taggings, with words identified as nouns, verbs,
adjectives, or other parts of speech.  This tagging can then be used by
programs which will begin to learn a bit more about the structure of the
language, and then, can go to tag more text.

HOCKEY said that the more that is tagged accurately, the more one can
refine the tagging process and thus the bigger body of text one can build
up with linguistic tagging incorporated into it.  Hence, the more tagging
or annotation there is in the text, the more one may begin to learn about
language and the more it will help accomplish more intelligent OCR.  She
recommended the development of software tools that will help one begin to
understand more about a text, which can then be applied to scanning
images of that text in that format and to using more intelligence to help
one interpret or understand the text.

HOCKEY posited the need to think about common methods of textencoding
for a long time to come, because building these large bodies of text is
extremely expensive and will only be done once.

In the more general discussion on approaches to encoding that followed,
these points were made:

BESSER identified the underlying problem with standards that all have to
struggle with in adopting a standard, namely, the tension between a very
highly defined standard that is very interchangeable but does not work
for everyone because something is lacking, and a standard that is less
defined, more open, more adaptable, but less interchangeable.  Contending
that the way in which people use SGML is not sufficiently defined, BESSER
wondered 1 if people resist the TEI because they think it is too defined
in certain things they do not fit into, and 2 how progress with
interchangeability can be made without frightening people away.

SPERBERGMcQUEEN replied that the published drafts of the TEI had met
with surprisingly little objection on the grounds that they do not allow
one to handle X or Y or Z.  Particular concerns of the affiliated
projects have led, in practice, to discussions of how extensions are to
be made the primary concern of any project has to be how it can be
represented locally, thus making interchange secondary.  The TEI has
received much criticism based on the notion that everything in it is
required or even recommended, which, as it happens, is a misconception
from the beginning,   because none of it is required and very little is
actually actively recommended for all cases, except that one document
ones source.

SPERBERGMcQUEEN agreed with BESSER about this tradeoff:  all the
projects in a set of twenty TEIconformant projects will not necessarily
tag the material in the same way.  One result of the TEI will be that the
easiest problems will be solvedthose dealing with the external form of
the information but the problem that is hardest in interchange is that
one is not encoding what another wants, and vice versa.  Thus, after
the adoption of a common notation, the differences in the underlying
conceptions of what is interesting about texts become more visible.
The success of a standard like the TEI will lie in the ability of
the recipient of interchanged texts to use some of what it contains
and to add the information that was not encoded that one wants, in a
layered way, so that texts can be gradually enriched and one does not
have to put in everything all at once.  Hence, having a wellbehaved
markup scheme is important.

STEVENS followed up on the paradoxical analogy that BESSER alluded to in
the example of the MARC records, namely, the formats that are the same
except that they are different.  STEVENS drew a parallel between
documenttype definitions and MARC records for books and serials and maps,
where one has a tagging structure and there is a textinterchange.
STEVENS opined that the producers of the information will set the terms
for the standard i.e., develop documenttype definitions for the users
of their products, creating a situation that will be problematical for
an institution like the Library of Congress, which will have to deal with
the DTDs in the event that a multiplicity of them develops.  Thus,
numerous people are seeking a standard but cannot find the tag set that
will be acceptable to them and their clients.  SPERBERGMcQUEEN agreed
with this view, and said that the situation was in a way worse:  attempting
to unify arbitrary DTDs resembled attempting to unify a MARC record with a
bibliographic record done according to the Prussian instructions.
According to STEVENS, this situation occurred very early in the process.

WATERS recalled from early discussions on Project Open Book the concern
of many people that merely by producing images, POB was not really
enhancing intellectual access to the material.  Nevertheless, not wishing
to overemphasize the opposition between imaging and full text, WATERS
stated that POB views getting the images as a first step toward possibly
converting to full text through character recognition, if the technology
is appropriate.  WATERS also emphasized that encoding is involved even
with a set of images.

SPERBERGMcQUEEN agreed with WATERS that one can create an SGML document
consisting wholly of images.  At first sight, organizing graphic images
with an SGML document may not seem to offer great advantages, but the
advantages of the scheme WATERS described would be precisely that
ability to move into something that is more of a multimedia document:
a combination of transcribed text and page images.  WEIBEL concurred in
this judgment, offering evidence from Project ADAPT, where a page is
divided into text elements and graphic elements, and in fact the text
elements are organized by columns and lines.  These lines may be used as
the basis for distributing documents in a network environment.  As one
develops software intelligent enough to recognize what those elements
are, it makes sense to apply SGML to an image initially, that may, in
fact, ultimately become more and more text, either through OCR or edited
OCR or even just through keying.  For WATERS, the labor of composing the
document and saying this set of documents or this set of images belongs
to this document constitutes a significant investment.

WEIBEL also made the point that the AAP tag sets, while not excessively
prescriptive, offer a common starting point they do not define the
structure of the documents, though.  They have some recommendations about
DTDs one could use as examples, but they do just suggest tag sets.   For
example, the CORE project attempts to use the AAP markup as much as
possible, but there are clearly areas where structure must be added.
That in no way contradicts the use of AAP tag sets.

SPERBERGMcQUEEN noted that the TEI prepared a long working paper early
on about the AAP tag set and what it lacked that the TEI thought it
needed, and a fairly long critique of the naming conventions, which has
led to a very different style of naming in the TEI.  He stressed the
importance of the opposition between prescriptive markup, the kind that a
publisher or anybody can do when producing documents de novo, and
descriptive markup, in which one has to take what the text carrier
provides.  In these particular tag sets iG RH VZHB GL LEVIVNKSZHRAV GSRH
LKKLHRGRLM, YVXZFHV GSV ZZK GZT HVG RH VCGIVNVOB UOVCRYOV.  VEVM RU LMV
QFHG FHVW GSV WGWH, GSVB ZOOLD ZONLHG ZMBGSRMT GL ZKKVZI ZONLHG ZMBDSVIV.

                                 

HVHHRLM ER.  XLKBIRTSG RHHFVH


KVGVIH  HVEVIZO XZFGRLMH XLMXVIMRMT XLKBIRTSG RM ZM VOVXGILMRX
VMERILMNVMG  IVERVD LU XLKBIRTSG OZD RM GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH  GSV MLGRLM
LU GSV KFYORX TLLW ZMW GSV WVHRIZYRORGB LU RMXVMGREVH GL KILNLGV RG 
DSZG XLKBIRTSG KILGVXGH  DLIPH MLG KILGVXGVW YB XLKBIRTSG  GSV IRTSGH
LU XLKBIRTSG SLOWVIH  KFYORHSVIH XLMXVIMH RM GLWZBH VOVXGILMRX
VMERILMNVMG  XLNKFOHLIB ORXVMHVH  GSV KIRXV LU XLKBIRTSG RM Z WRTRGZO
NVWRFN ZMW GSV MVVW ULI XLLKVIZGRLM  ZWWRGRLMZO XOZIRURXZGRLMH   ILFTS
QFHGRXV LUGVMGRNVH GSV LFGXLNV RM MFNVILFH XLKBIRTSG NZGGVIH  XLKBIRTSG
RM ZM VOVXGILMRX HLXRVGB  XLKBIRTSG OZD ZODZBH LMOB HVGH FK GSV
YLFMWZIRVH ZMBGSRMT XZM YV XSZMTVW YB XLMGIZXG 


NZIBYVGS KVGVIH, KLORXB KOZMMRMT ZWERHVI GL GSV IVTRHGVI LU XLKBIRTSGH,
ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH,   NZWV HVEVIZO TVMVIZO XLNNVMGH ZMW GSVM LKVMVW GSV
UOLLI GL WRHXFHHRLM LU HFYQVXGH LU RMGVIVHG GL GSV ZFWRVMXV.

SZERMT ZGGVMWVW HVEVIZO HVHHRLMH RM ZM VUULIG GL TZRM Z HVMHV LU DSZG
KVLKOV WRW ZMW DSVIV XLKBIRTSG DLFOW ZUUVXG GSVRI OREVH, KVGVIH VCKIVHHVW
GSV ULOOLDRMT XZFGRLMH:

      RU LMV GZPVH ZMW XLMEVIGH NZGVIRZOH ZMW KFGH GSVN RM MVD ULINH,
     GSVM, UILN Z XLKBIRTSG KLRMG LU ERVD, LMV RH XIVZGRMT HLNVGSRMT ZMW
     DROO IVXVREV HLNV IRTSGH.

      SLDVEVI, RU DSZG LMV RH XLMEVIGRMT ZOIVZWB VCRHGH, Z JFVHGRLM
     RNNVWRZGVOB ZIRHVH ZYLFG GSV HGZGFH LU GSV NZGVIRZOH RM JFVHGRLM.

      KFGGRMT HLNVGSRMT RM GSV KFYORX WLNZRM RM GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH LUUVIH
     HLNV UIVVWLN UILN ZMCRVGB, YFG WRHGIRYFGRMT RG GSILFTSLFG GSV DLIOW
     LM Z MVGDLIP RH ZMLGSVI NZGGVI, VEVM RU LMV SZH KFG RG RM GSV KFYORX
     WLNZRM RM GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH.  IV ULIVRTM OZDH, EVIB UIVJFVMGOB Z
     DLIP XZM YV RM GSV KFYORX WLNZRM RM GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH YFG KILGVXGVW
     RM LGSVI XLFMGIRVH.  GSFH, LMV NFHG XLMHRWVI ZOO LU GSV KOZXVH Z
     DLIP NZB IVZXS, OVHG LMV FMDRGGRMTOB YVXLNV ORZYOV GL YVRMT UZXVW
     DRGS Z HFRG ULI XLKBIRTSG RMUIRMTVNVMG, LI ZG OVZHG Z OVGGVI
     WVNZMWRMT WRHXFHHRLM LU DSZG LMV RH WLRMT.

KVGVIH IVERVDVW XLKBIRTSG OZD RM GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH.  GSV F.H.
XLMHGRGFGRLM VUUVXGREVOB HGZGVH GSZG XLMTIVHH SZH GSV KLDVI GL VMZXG
XLKBIRTSG OZDH ULI GDL KFIKLHVH:  1 GL VMXLFIZTV GSV XIVZGRLM ZMW
WRHHVNRMZGRLM LU RMGVOOVXGFZO DLIPH ULI GSV TLLW LU HLXRVGB ZH Z DSLOV
ZMW, HRTMRURXZMGOB, 2 GL TREV XIVZGLIH ZMW GSLHV DSL KZXPZTV ZMW
WRHHVNRMZGV NZGVIRZOH GSV VXLMLNRX IVDZIWH GSZG ZIV WFV GSVN.

XLMTIVHH HGIREVH GL HGIRPV Z YZOZMXV, DSRXS ZG GRNVH XZM YVXLNV ZM
VNLGRLMZO RHHFV.  GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH SZH MVEVI ZXXVKGVW GSV MLGRLM LU GSV
MZGFIZO IRTSG LU ZM ZFGSLI HL NFXS ZH RG SZH ZXXVKGVW GSV MLGRLM LU GSV
KFYORX TLLW ZMW GSV WVHRIZYRORGB LU RMXVMGREVH GL KILNLGV RG.  GSRH HGZGV
LU ZUUZRIH, SLDVEVI, SZH XIVZGVW HGIZRMH LM GSV RMGVIMZGRLMZO OVEVO ZMW
RH GSV IVZHLM ULI HVEVIZO LU GSV WRUUVIVMXVH RM GSV OZDH GSZG DV SZEV.
GLWZB GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH KILGVXGH ZONLHG VEVIB PRMW LU DLIP GSZG XZM YV
XZOOVW ZM VCKIVHHRLM LU ZM ZFGSLI.  GSV HGZMWZIW ULI TZRMRMT XLKBIRTSG
KILGVXGRLM RH HRNKOB LIRTRMZORGB.  GSRH RH Z OLD HGZMWZIW ZMW NVZMH GSZG
Z DLIP RH MLG XLKRVW UILN HLNVGSRMT VOHV, ZH DVOO ZH HSLDH Z XVIGZRM
NRMRNZO ZNLFMG LU ZFGSLIHSRK.  LMV XZM ZOHL ZXJFRIV XLKBIRTSG KILGVXGRLM
ULI NZPRMT Z MVD EVIHRLM LU KIVVCRHGRMT NZGVIRZO, KILERWVW RG NZMRUVHGH
HLNV HKZIP LU XIVZGRERGB.

SLDVEVI, XLKBIRTSG WLVH MLG KILGVXG RWVZH, NVGSLWH, HBHGVNHLMOB GSV DZB
GSZG LMV VCKIVHHVH GSLHV GSRMTH.  MLI WLVH XLKBIRTSG KILGVXG ZMBGSRMT
GSZG RH NVXSZMRXZO, ZMBGSRMT GSZG WLVH MLG RMELOEV XSLRXV, LI XIRGVIRZ
XLMXVIMRMT DSVGSVI LI MLG LMV HSLFOW WL Z GSRMT.  ULI VCZNKOV, GSV
IVHFOGH LU Z KILXVHH XZOOVW WVXORXPRMT, RM DSRXS LMV NVXSZMRXZOOB IVNLEVH
RNKFIV HLFMWH UILN LOW IVXLIWRMTH, ZIV MLG XLKBIRTSGZYOV.  LM GSV LGSVI
SZMW, GSV XSLRXV GL IVXLIW Z HLMT WRTRGZOOB ZMW GL RMXIVZHV GSV HLFMW LU
ERLORMH LI GL YIRMT FK GSV GBNKZMR XLMHGRGFGVH GSV IVHFOGH LU XLMEVIHRLM
GSZG ZIV XLKBIRTSGZYOV.  NLIVLEVI, RU Z DLIP RH KILGVXGVW YB XLKBIRTSG RM
GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH, LMV TVMVIZOOB MVVWH GSV KVINRHHRLM LU GSV XLKBIRTSG
LDMVI GL XLMEVIG RG.  MLINZOOB, DSL DROO LDM GSV MVDGSZG RH, XLMEVIGVW
NZGVIRZO RH Z NZGGVI LU XLMGIZXG.  RM GSV ZYHVMXV LU Z XLMGIZXG, GSV
KVIHLM DSL XIVZGVH GSV MVD NZGVIRZO RH GSV ZFGSLI ZMW LDMVI.  YFG KVLKOV
WL MLG TVMVIZOOB GSRMP ZYLFG GSV XLKBIRTSG RNKORXZGRLMH FMGRO ZUGVI GSV
UZXG.  KVGVIH HGIVHHVW GSV MVVW DSVM WVZORMT DRGS XLKBIRTSGVW DLIPH GL
GSRMP ZYLFG XLKBIRTSG RM ZWEZMXV.  LMVH YZITZRMRMT KLDVI RH NFXS TIVZGVI
FK UILMG GSZM RG RH WLDM GSV ILZW.

KVGVIH MVCG WRHXFHHVW DLIPH MLG KILGVXGVW YB XLKBIRTSG, ULI VCZNKOV, ZMB
DLIP WLMV YB Z UVWVIZO VNKOLBVV ZH KZIG LU SRH LI SVI LUURXRZO WFGRVH RH
RM GSV KFYORX WLNZRM RM GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH.  GSV RHHFV RH MLG DSLOOB UIVV
LU WLFYG XLMXVIMRMT DSVGSVI LI MLG GSV DLIP RH RM GSV KFYORX WLNZRM
LFGHRWV GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH.  LGSVI NZGVIRZOH RM GSV KFYORX WLNZRM RMXOFWV:
ZMB DLIPH KFYORHSVW NLIV GSZM HVEVMGBUREV BVZIH ZTL, ZMW ZMB DLIP
KFYORHSVW RM GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH NLIV GSZM GDVMGBVRTSG BVZIH ZTL, DSLHV
XLKBIRTSG DZH MLG IVMVDVW.  RM GZOPRMT ZYLFG GSV MVD GVXSMLOLTB ZMW
KFGGRMT NZGVIRZO RM Z WRTRGZO ULIN GL HVMW ZOO LEVI GSV DLIOW, KVGVIH
XZFGRLMVW, LMV NFHG PVVK RM NRMW GSZG DSROV GSV IRTSGH NZB MLG YV ZM
RHHFV RM GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH, GSVB NZB YV RM WRUUVIVMG KZIGH LU GSV DLIOW,
DSVIV NLHG XLFMGIRVH KIVERLFHOB VNKOLBVW Z XLKBIRTSG GVIN LU GSV ORUV LU
GSV ZFGSLI KOFH URUGB BVZIH.

KVGVIH MVCG IVERVDVW GSV VXLMLNRXH LU XLKBIRTSG SLOWRMT.  HRNKOB,
VXLMLNRX IRTSGH ZIV GSV IRTSGH GL XLMGILO GSV IVKILWFXGRLM LU Z DLIP RM
ZMB ULIN.  GSVB YVOLMT GL GSV ZFGSLI, LI RM GSV XZHV LU Z DLIP NZWV ULI
SRIV, GSV VNKOLBVI.  GSV HVXLMW IRTSG, DSRXS RH XIRGRXZO GL XLMEVIHRLM,
RH GSV IRTSG GL XSZMTV Z DLIP.  GSV IRTSG GL NZPV MVD EVIHRLMH RH KVISZKH
LMV LU GSV NLHG HRTMRURXZMG IRTSGH LU ZFGSLIH, KZIGRXFOZIOB RM ZM
VOVXGILMRX DLIOW.  GSV GSRIW IRTSG RH GSV IRTSG GL KFYORHS GSV DLIP ZMW
GSV IRTSG GL WRHHVNRMZGV RG, HLNVGSRMT GSZG VEVIBLMV DSL WVZOH RM ZM
VOVXGILMRX NVWRFN MVVWH GL PMLD.  GSV YZHRX IFOV RH RU Z XLKB RH HLOW,
ZOO IRTSGH LU WRHGIRYFGRLM ZIV VCGRMTFRHSVW DRGS GSV HZOV LU GSZG XLKB.
GSV PVB RH GSZG RG NFHG YV HLOW.  Z MFNYVI LU XLNKZMRVH LEVIXLNV GSRH
LYHGZXOV YB OVZHRMT LI IVMGRMT GSVRI KILWFXG.  GSVHV XLNKZMRVH ZITFV GSZG
RU GSV NZGVIRZO RH IVMGVW LI OVZHVW ZMW MLG HLOW, GSVB XLMGILO GSV FHVH
LU Z DLIP.  GSV ULFIGS IRTSG, ZMW LMV EVIB RNKLIGZMG RM Z WRTRGZO DLIOW,
RH Z IRTSG LU KFYORX KVIULINZMXV, DSRXS NVZMH GSV IRTSG GL HSLD GSV DLIP
HVJFVMGRZOOB.  ULI VCZNKOV, XLKBIRTSG LDMVIH XLMGILO GSV HSLDRMT LU Z
XWILN KILWFXG RM Z KFYORX KOZXV HFXS ZH Z KFYORX ORYIZIB.  GSV IVEVIHV
HRWV LU KFYORX KVIULINZMXV RH HLNVGSRMT XZOOVW GSV IRTSG LU KFYORX
WRHKOZB.  NLIZO IRTSGH ZOHL VCRHG, DSRXS ZG GSV UVWVIZO OVEVO ZKKOB LMOB
GL EVIB ORNRGVW ERHFZO DLIPH LU ZIG, YFG RM GSVLIB NZB ZKKOB FMWVI
XLMGIZXG ZMW LGSVI KIRMXRKOVH.  NLIZO IRTSGH NZB RMXOFWV GSV IRTSG LU ZM
ZFGSLI GL SZEV SRH LI SVI MZNV LM Z DLIP, GSV IRTSG LU ZGGIRYFGRLM, ZMW
GSV IRTSG GL LYQVXG GL WRHGLIGRLM LI NFGROZGRLMGSV IRTSG LU RMGVTIRGB.

GSV DZB XLKBIRTSG OZD RH DLIWVW TREVH NFXS OZGRGFWV GL ZXGRERGRVH HFXS ZH
KIVHVIEZGRLM GL FHV LU NZGVIRZO ULI HXSLOZIOB ZMW IVHVZIXS KFIKLHVH DSVM
GSV FHVI WLVH MLG NZPV NFOGRKOV XLKRVH ZMW GL GSV TVMVIZGRLM LU
UZXHRNROV XLKRVH LU FMKFYORHSVW DLIPH YB ORYIZIRVH ULI GSVNHVOEVH ZMW
LGSVI ORYIZIRVH.  YFG GSV OZD WLVH MLG ZOOLD ZMBLMV GL YVXLNV GSV
WRHGIRYFGLI LU GSV KILWFXG ULI GSV VMGRIV DLIOW.  RM GLWZBH VOVXGILMRX
VMERILMNVMG, KFYORHSVIH ZIV VCGIVNVOB XLMXVIMVW GSZG GSV VMGRIV DLIOW RH
MVGDLIPVW ZMW XZM LYGZRM GSV RMULINZGRLM WVHRIVW UILN Z HRMTOV XLKB RM Z
HRMTOV ORYIZIB.  SVMXV, RU GSVIV RH GL YV LMOB LMV HZOV, DSRXS KFYORHSVIH
NZB XSLLHV GL OREV DRGS, GSVB DROO LYGZRM GSVRI NLMVB RM LGSVI DZBH, ULI
VCZNKOV, UILN ZXXVHH ZMW FHV.  SVMXV, GSV WVEVOLKNVMG LU HRGV ORXVMHVH
ZMW LGSVI PRMWH LU ZTIVVNVMGH GL XLEVI DSZG KFYORHSVIH YVORVEV GSVB
HSLFOW YV XLNKVMHZGVW ULI.  ZMB HLOFGRLM GSZG GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH GZPVH
GLWZB SZH GL XLMHRWVI GSV RMGVIMZGRLMZO ZIVMZ.

MLGRMT GSZG GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH RH Z NVNYVI LU GSV YVIMV XLMEVMGRLM ZMW
HFYHXIRYVH GL RGH KILERHRLMH, KVGVIH WVHXIRYVW GSV KVINRHHRLMH KILXVHH.
HSV ZOHL WVURMVW XLNKFOHLIB ORXVMHVH.  Z XLNKFOHLIB ORXVMHV, LU DSRXS GSV
FMRGVW HGZGVH SZH SZW Z UVD, YFROWH RMGL GSV OZD GSV IRTSG GL FHV Z DLIP
HFYQVXG GL XVIGZRM GVINH ZMW XLMWRGRLMH.  RM GSV RMGVIMZGRLMZO ZIVMZ,
SLDVEVI, GSV ZYRORGB GL FHV XLNKFOHLIB ORXVMHVH RH VCGIVNVOB ORNRGVW.
GSFH, XOVZIRMTSLFHVH ZMW LGSVI XLOOVXGREVH XLNKIRHV LMV LKGRLM GSZG SZH
HFXXVVWVW RM KILERWRMT ULI FHV LU Z DLIP.  LUGVM LEVIOLLPVW DSVM LMV
YVTRMH GL FHV XLKBIRTSGVW NZGVIRZO ZMW KFG KILWFXGH GLTVGSVI RH SLD
VCKVMHREV GSV KVINRHHRLMH KILXVHH ZMW NZMZTRMT RG RH.  ZXXLIWRMT GL
KVGVIH, GSV KIRXV LU XLKBIRTSG RM Z WRTRGZO NVWRFN, DSZGVEVI HLOFGRLM RH
DLIPVW LFG, DROO RMXOFWV NZMZTRMT ZMW ZHHVNYORMT GSV WZGZYZHV.  HSV
HGILMTOB IVXLNNVMWVW GSZG KFYORHSVIH ZMW ORYIZIRZMH LI KVLKOV DRGS
EZIRLFH YZXPTILFMWH XLLKVIZGV GL DLIP LFG ZWNRMRHGIZGREVOB UVZHRYOV
HBHGVNH, RM LIWVI GL KILWFXV YVGGVI IVHFOGH.

RM GSV OVMTGSB JFVHGRLMZMWZMHDVI KVIRLW GSZG ULOOLDVW KVGVIHH
KIVHVMGZGRLM, GSV ULOOLDRMT KLRMGH VNVITVW:

      GSV XLKBIRTSG LUURXV NZRMGZRMH GSZG ZMBGSRMT NVXSZMRXZO ZMW
     GLGZOOB VCSZFHGREV KILYZYOB RH MLG KILGVXGVW.  RM GSV VEVMG GSZG
     DSZG ZM RMWRERWFZO WRW RM WVEVOLKRMT KLGVMGRZOOB XLKBIRTSGZYOV
     NZGVIRZO RH MLG FMWVIHGLLW, GSV XLKBIRTSG LUURXV DROO ZHP ZYLFG GSV
     XIVZGREV XSLRXVH GSV ZKKORXZMG XSLHV GL NZPV LI MLG GL NZPV.  ZH Z
     KIZXGRXZO NZGGVI, RU LMV YVORVEVH HSV LI SV SZH NZWV VMLFTS LU GSLHV
     XSLRXVH, GSZG KVIHLM SZH Z IRTSG GL ZHHVIG Z XLKBIRTSG ZMW HLNVLMV
     VOHV NFHG ZHHVIG GSZG GSV DLIP RH MLG XLKBIRTSGZYOV.  GSV NLIV
     NVXSZMRXZO, GSV NLIV ZFGLNZGRX, Z GSRMT RH, GSV OVHH ORPVOB RG RH GL
     YV XLKBIRTSGZYOV.

      MVZIOB ZOO KSLGLTIZKSH ZIV WVVNVW GL YV XLKBIRTSGZYOV, YFG ML LMV
     DLIIRVH ZYLFG GSVN NFXS, YVXZFHV VEVIBLMV RH UIVV GL GZPV GSV HZNV
     RNZTV.  GSFH, Z KSLGLTIZKSRX XLKBIRTSG IVKIVHVMGH DSZG RH XZOOVW Z
     "GSRM" XLKBIRTSG.  GSV KSLGLTIZKS RGHVOU NFHG YV WFKORXZGVW, RM
     LIWVI ULI XLKBIRTSG GL YV ERLOZGVW.

      GSV XLKBIRTSG LUURXV GZPVH GSV KLHRGRLM GSZG CIZBH ZIV MLG
     XLKBIRTSGZYOV YVXZFHV GSVB ZIV NVXSZMRXZO.  RG  XZM YV ZITFVW
     DSVGSVI LI MLG RNZTV VMSZMXVNVMG RM HXZMMRMT XZM YV KILGVXGVW.  LMV
     NFHG VCVIXRHV XZIV DRGS NZGVIRZO XIVZGVW DRGS KFYORX UFMWH ZMW
     TVMVIZOOB RM GSV KFYORX WLNZRM.  ZM ZIGRXOV DIRGGVM YB Z UVWVIZO
     VNKOLBVV, RU DIRGGVM ZH KZIG LU LUURXRZO WFGRVH, RH MLG
     XLKBIRTSGZYOV.  SLDVEVI, XLMGILO LEVI Z HXRVMGRURX ZIGRXOV DIRGGVM
     YB Z MZGRLMZO RMHGRGFGVH LU SVZOGS TIZMGVV R.V., HLNVLMV DSL
     IVXVREVH NLMVB UILN GSV F.H. TLEVIMNVMG, WVKVMWH LM MRS KLORXB.  RU
     GSV TLEVIMNVMG ZTVMXB SZH ML KLORXB ZMW GSZG KLORXB XZM YV
     XLMGZRMVW RM RGH IVTFOZGRLMH, GSV XLMGIZXG, LI GSV TIZMG, GSV
     ZFGSLI IVGZRMH XLKBIRTSG.  RU Z KILERHRLM LU GSV XLMGIZXG, TIZMG, LI
     IVTFOZGRLM HGZGVH GSZG GSVIV DROO YV ML XLKBIRTSG, GSVM RG WLVH MLG
     VCRHG.  DSVM Z DLIP RH XIVZGVW, XLKBIRTSG ZFGLNZGRXZOOB XLNVH RMGL
     VCRHGVMXV FMOVHH HLNVGSRMT VCRHGH GSZG HZBH RG WLVH MLG.

      ZM VMSZMXVW VOVXGILMRX XLKB LU Z KIRMG XLKB LU ZM LOWVI IVUVIVMXV
     DLIP RM GSV KFYORX WLNZRM GSZG WLVH MLG XLMGZRM XLKBIRTSGZYOV MVD
     NZGVIRZO RH Z KFIVOB NVXSZMRXZO IVMWRGRLM LU GSV LIRTRMZO DLIP, ZMW
     RH MLG XLKBIRTSGZYOV.

      FHFZOOB, DSVM Z DLIP VMGVIH GSV KFYORX WLNZRM, MLGSRMT XZM IVNLEV
     RG.  ULI VCZNKOV, XLMTIVHH IVXVMGOB KZHHVW RMGL OZD GSV XLMXVKG LU
     ZFGLNZGRX IVMVDZO, DSRXS NVZMH GSZG XLKBIRTSG LM ZMB DLIP KFYORHSVW
     YVGDVVM O964 ZMW O978 WLVH MLG SZEV GL YV IVMVDVW RM LIWVI GL
     IVXVREV Z HVEVMGBUREVBVZI GVIN.  YFG ZMB DLIP MLG IVMVDVW YVULIV
     1964 RH RM GSV KFYORX WLNZRM.

      XLMXVIMRMT DSVGSVI LI MLG GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH PVVKH GIZXP LU DSVM
     ZFGSLIH WRV, MLGSRMT DZH VEVI WLMV, MLI RH ZMBGSRMT YVRMT WLMV ZG
     GSV NLNVMG YB GSV XLKBIRTSG LUURXV.

      HLUGDZIV GSZG WIREVH Z NVXSZMRXZO KILXVHH RH RGHVOU XLKBIRTSGZYOV.
     RU LMV XSZMTVH KOZGULINH, GSV HLUGDZIV RGHVOU SZH Z XLKBIRTSG.  GSV
     DLIOW RMGVOOVXGFZO KILKVIGB LITZMRAZGRLM DROO SLOW Z HBNKLHRFN 28
     NZIXS GSILFTS 2 ZKIRO O993, ZG SZIEZIW FMREVIHRGB, LM WRTRGZO
     GVXSMLOLTB, ZMW DROO HGFWB GSRH VMGRIV RHHFV.  RU LMV KFIXSZHVH Z
     XLNKFGVI HLUGDZIV KZXPZTV, HFXS ZH NZXKZRMG, ZMW XIVZGVH HLNVGSRMT
     MVD, LMV IVXVREVH KILGVXGRLM LMOB ULI GSZG DSRXS SZH YVVM ZWWVW.

