future, when many more texts are available for online searching, real
problems in finding what is wanted will develop, if one is faced with
millions of words of data.  It therefore becomes important to consider
putting markup in texts to help searchers home in on the actual things
they wish to retrieve.  Various approaches to refining retrieval methods
toward this end include building on a computer version of a dictionary
and letting the computer look up words in it to obtain more information
about the semantic structure or semantic field of a word, its grammatical
structure, and syntactic structure.

HOCKEY commented on the present keen interest in the encoding world
in creating:  1 machinereadable versions of dictionaries that can be
initially tagged in SGML, which gives a structure to the dictionary entry
these entries can then be converted into a more rigid or otherwise
different database structure inside the computer, which can be treated as
a dynamic tool for searching mechanisms 2 large bodies of text to study
the language.  In order to incorporate more sophisticated mechanisms,
more about how words behave needs to be known, which can be learned in
part from information in dictionaries.  However, the last ten years have
seen much interest in studying the structure of printed dictionaries
converted into computerreadable form.  The information one derives about
many words from those is only partial, one or two definitions of the
common or the usual meaning of a word, and then numerous definitions of
unusual usages.  If the computer is using a dictionary to help retrieve
words in a text, it needs much more information about the common usages,
because those are the ones that occur over and over again.  Hence the
current interest in developing large bodies of text in computerreadable
form in order to study the language.  Several projects are engaged in
compiling, for example, 100 million words. HOCKEY described one with
which she was associated briefly at Oxford University involving
compilation of 100 million words of British English:  about 10 percent of
that will contain detailed linguistic tagging encoded in SGML it will
have word class taggings, with words identified as nouns, verbs,
adjectives, or other parts of speech.  This tagging can then be used by
programs which will begin to learn a bit more about the structure of the
language, and then, can go to tag more text.

HOCKEY said that the more that is tagged accurately, the more one can
refine the tagging process and thus the bigger body of text one can build
up with linguistic tagging incorporated into it.  Hence, the more tagging
or annotation there is in the text, the more one may begin to learn about
language and the more it will help accomplish more intelligent OCR.  She
recommended the development of software tools that will help one begin to
understand more about a text, which can then be applied to scanning
images of that text in that format and to using more intelligence to help
one interpret or understand the text.

HOCKEY posited the need to think about common methods of textencoding
for a long time to come, because building these large bodies of text is
extremely expensive and will only be done once.

In the more general discussion on approaches to encoding that followed,
these points were made:

BESSER identified the underlying problem with standards that all have to
struggle with in adopting a standard, namely, the tension between a very
highly defined standard that is very interchangeable but does not work
for everyone because something is lacking, and a standard that is less
defined, more open, more adaptable, but less interchangeable.  Contending
that the way in which people use SGML is not sufficiently defined, BESSER
wondered 1 if people resist the TEI because they think it is too defined
in certain things they do not fit into, and 2 how progress with
interchangeability can be made without frightening people away.

SPERBERGMcQUEEN replied that the published drafts of the TEI had met
with surprisingly little objection on the grounds that they do not allow
one to handle X or Y or Z.  Particular concerns of the affiliated
projects have led, in practice, to discussions of how extensions are to
be made the primary concern of any project has to be how it can be
represented locally, thus making interchange secondary.  The TEI has
received much criticism based on the notion that everything in it is
required or even recommended, which, as it happens, is a misconception
from the beginning,   because none of it is required and very little is
actually actively recommended for all cases, except that one document
ones source.

SPERBERGMcQUEEN agreed with BESSER about this tradeoff:  all the
projects in a set of twenty TEIconformant projects will not necessarily
tag the material in the same way.  One result of the TEI will be that the
easiest problems will be solvedthose dealing with the external form of
the information but the problem that is hardest in interchange is that
one is not encoding what another wants, and vice versa.  Thus, after
the adoption of a common notation, the differences in the underlying
conceptions of what is interesting about texts become more visible.
The success of a standard like the TEI will lie in the ability of
the recipient of interchanged texts to use some of what it contains
and to add the information that was not encoded that one wants, in a
layered way, so that texts can be gradually enriched and one does not
have to put in everything all at once.  Hence, having a wellbehaved
markup scheme is important.

STEVENS followed up on the paradoxical analogy that BESSER alluded to in
the example of the MARC records, namely, the formats that are the same
except that they are different.  STEVENS drew a parallel between
documenttype definitions and MARC records for books and serials and maps,
where one has a tagging structure and there is a textinterchange.
STEVENS opined that the producers of the information will set the terms
for the standard i.e., develop documenttype definitions for the users
of their products, creating a situation that will be problematical for
an institution like the Library of Congress, which will have to deal with
the DTDs in the event that a multiplicity of them develops.  Thus,
numerous people are seeking a standard but cannot find the tag set that
will be acceptable to them and their clients.  SPERBERGMcQUEEN agreed
with this view, and said that the situation was in a way worse:  attempting
to unify arbitrary DTDs resembled attempting to unify a MARC record with a
bibliographic record done according to the Prussian instructions.
According to STEVENS, this situation occurred very early in the process.

WATERS recalled from early discussions on Project Open Book the concern
of many people that merely by producing images, POB was not really
enhancing intellectual access to the material.  Nevertheless, not wishing
to overemphasize the opposition between imaging and full text, WATERS
stated that POB views getting the images as a first step toward possibly
converting to full text through character recognition, if the technology
is appropriate.  WATERS also emphasized that encoding is involved even
with a set of images.

SPERBERGMcQUEEN agreed with WATERS that one can create an SGML document
consisting wholly of images.  At first sight, organizing graphic images
with an SGML document may not seem to offer great advantages, but the
advantages of the scheme WATERS described would be precisely that
ability to move into something that is more of a multimedia document:
a combination of transcribed text and page images.  WEIBEL concurred in
this judgment, offering evidence from Project ADAPT, where a page is
divided into text elements and graphic elements, and in fact the text
elements are organized by columns and lines.  These lines may be used as
the basis for distributing documents in a network environment.  As one
develops software intelligent enough to recognize what those elements
are, it makes sense to apply SGML to an image initially, that may, in
fact, ultimately become more and more text, either through OCR or edited
OCR or even just through keying.  For WATERS, the labor of composing the
document and saying this set of documents or this set of images belongs
to this document constitutes a significant investment.

WEIBEL also made the point that the AAP tag sets, while not excessively
prescriptive, offer a common starting point they do not define the
structure of the documents, though.  They have some recommendations about
DTDs one could use as examples, but they do just HFTTVHG GZT HVGH.   ULI
VCZNKOV, GSV XLIV KILQVXG ZGGVNKGH GL FHV GSV ZZK NZIPFK ZH NFXS ZH
KLHHRYOV, YFG GSVIV ZIV XOVZIOB ZIVZH DSVIV HGIFXGFIV NFHG YV ZWWVW.
GSZG RM ML DZB XLMGIZWRXGH GSV FHV LU ZZK GZT HVGH.

HKVIYVITNXJFVVM MLGVW GSZG GSV GVR KIVKZIVW Z OLMT DLIPRMT KZKVI VZIOB
LM ZYLFG GSV ZZK GZT HVG ZMW DSZG RG OZXPVW GSZG GSV GVR GSLFTSG RG
MVVWVW, ZMW Z UZRIOB OLMT XIRGRJFV LU GSV MZNRMT XLMEVMGRLMH, DSRXS SZH
OVW GL Z EVIB WRUUVIVMG HGBOV LU MZNRMT RM GSV GVR.  SV HGIVHHVW GSV
RNKLIGZMXV LU GSV LKKLHRGRLM YVGDVVM KIVHXIRKGREV NZIPFK, GSV PRMW GSZG Z
KFYORHSVI LI ZMBYLWB XZM WL DSVM KILWFXRMT WLXFNVMGH WV MLEL, ZMW
WVHXIRKGREV NZIPFK, RM DSRXS LMV SZH GL GZPV DSZG GSV GVCG XZIIRVI
KILERWVH.  RM GSVHV KZIGRXFOZI GZT HVGH RG RH VZHB GL LEVIVNKSZHRAV GSRH
LKKLHRGRLM, YVXZFHV GSV ZZK GZT HVG RH VCGIVNVOB UOVCRYOV.  VEVM RU LMV
QFHG FHVW GSV WGWH, GSVB ZOOLD ZONLHG ZMBGSRMT GL ZKKVZI ZONLHG ZMBDSVIV.

                                 

HVHHRLM ER.  XLKBIRTSG RHHFVH


KVGVIH  HVEVIZO XZFGRLMH XLMXVIMRMT XLKBIRTSG RM ZM VOVXGILMRX
VMERILMNVMG  IVERVD LU XLKBIRTSG OZD RM GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH  GSV MLGRLM
LU GSV KFYORX TLLW ZMW GSV WVHRIZYRORGB LU RMXVMGREVH GL KILNLGV RG 
DSZG XLKBIRTSG KILGVXGH  DLIPH MLG KILGVXGVW YB XLKBIRTSG  GSV IRTSGH
LU XLKBIRTSG SLOWVIH  KFYORHSVIH XLMXVIMH RM GLWZBH VOVXGILMRX
VMERILMNVMG  XLNKFOHLIB ORXVMHVH  GSV KIRXV LU XLKBIRTSG RM Z WRTRGZO
NVWRFN ZMW GSV MVVW ULI XLLKVIZGRLM  ZWWRGRLMZO XOZIRURXZGRLMH   ILFTS
QFHGRXV LUGVMGRNVH GSV LFGXLNV RM MFNVILFH XLKBIRTSG NZGGVIH  XLKBIRTSG
RM ZM VOVXGILMRX HLXRVGB  XLKBIRTSG OZD ZODZBH LMOB HVGH FK GSV
YLFMWZIRVH ZMBGSRMT XZM YV XSZMTVW YB XLMGIZXG 


NZIBYVGS KVGVIH, KLORXB KOZMMRMT ZWERHVI GL GSV IVTRHGVI LU XLKBIRTSGH,
ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH,   NZWV HVEVIZO TVMVIZO XLNNVMGH ZMW GSVM LKVMVW GSV
UOLLI GL WRHXFHHRLM LU HFYQVXGH LU RMGVIVHG GL GSV ZFWRVMXV.

SZERMT ZGGVMWVW HVEVIZO HVHHRLMH RM ZM VUULIG GL TZRM Z HVMHV LU DSZG
KVLKOV WRW ZMW DSVIV XLKBIRTSG DLFOW ZUUVXG GSVRI OREVH, KVGVIH VCKIVHHVW
GSV ULOOLDRMT XZFGRLMH:

      RU LMV GZPVH ZMW XLMEVIGH NZGVIRZOH ZMW KFGH GSVN RM MVD ULINH,
     GSVM, UILN Z XLKBIRTSG KLRMG LU ERVD, LMV RH XIVZGRMT HLNVGSRMT ZMW
     DROO IVXVREV HLNV IRTSGH.

      SLDVEVI, RU DSZG LMV RH XLMEVIGRMT ZOIVZWB VCRHGH, Z JFVHGRLM
     RNNVWRZGVOB ZIRHVH ZYLFG GSV HGZGFH LU GSV NZGVIRZOH RM JFVHGRLM.

      KFGGRMT HLNVGSRMT RM GSV KFYORX WLNZRM RM GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH LUUVIH
     HLNV UIVVWLN UILN ZMCRVGB, YFG WRHGIRYFGRMT RG GSILFTSLFG GSV DLIOW
     LM Z MVGDLIP RH ZMLGSVI NZGGVI, VEVM RU LMV SZH KFG RG RM GSV KFYORX
     WLNZRM RM GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH.  IV ULIVRTM OZDH, EVIB UIVJFVMGOB Z
     DLIP XZM YV RM GSV KFYORX WLNZRM RM GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH YFG KILGVXGVW
     RM LGSVI XLFMGIRVH.  GSFH, LMV NFHG XLMHRWVI ZOO LU GSV KOZXVH Z
     DLIP NZB IVZXS, OVHG LMV FMDRGGRMTOB YVXLNV ORZYOV GL YVRMT UZXVW
     DRGS Z HFRG ULI XLKBIRTSG RMUIRMTVNVMG, LI ZG OVZHG Z OVGGVI
     WVNZMWRMT WRHXFHHRLM LU DSZG LMV RH WLRMT.

KVGVIH IVERVDVW XLKBIRTSG OZD RM GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH.  GSV F.H.
XLMHGRGFGRLM VUUVXGREVOB HGZGVH GSZG XLMTIVHH SZH GSV KLDVI GL VMZXG
XLKBIRTSG OZDH ULI GDL KFIKLHVH:  1 GL VMXLFIZTV GSV XIVZGRLM ZMW
WRHHVNRMZGRLM LU RMGVOOVXGFZO DLIPH ULI GSV TLLW LU HLXRVGB ZH Z DSLOV
ZMW, HRTMRURXZMGOB, 2 GL TREV XIVZGLIH ZMW GSLHV DSL KZXPZTV ZMW
WRHHVNRMZGV NZGVIRZOH GSV VXLMLNRX IVDZIWH GSZG ZIV WFV GSVN.

XLMTIVHH HGIREVH GL HGIRPV Z YZOZMXV, DSRXS ZG GRNVH XZM YVXLNV ZM
VNLGRLMZO RHHFV.  GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH SZH MVEVI ZXXVKGVW GSV MLGRLM LU GSV
MZGFIZO IRTSG LU ZM ZFGSLI HL NFXS ZH RG SZH ZXXVKGVW GSV MLGRLM LU GSV
KFYORX TLLW ZMW GSV WVHRIZYRORGB LU RMXVMGREVH GL KILNLGV RG.  GSRH HGZGV
LU ZUUZRIH, SLDVEVI, SZH XIVZGVW HGIZRMH LM GSV RMGVIMZGRLMZO OVEVO ZMW
RH GSV IVZHLM ULI HVEVIZO LU GSV WRUUVIVMXVH RM GSV OZDH GSZG DV SZEV.
GLWZB GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH KILGVXGH ZONLHG VEVIB PRMW LU DLIP GSZG XZM YV
XZOOVW ZM VCKIVHHRLM LU ZM ZFGSLI.  GSV HGZMWZIW ULI TZRMRMT XLKBIRTSG
KILGVXGRLM RH HRNKOB LIRTRMZORGB.  GSRH RH Z OLD HGZMWZIW ZMW NVZMH GSZG
Z DLIP RH MLG XLKRVW UILN HLNVGSRMT VOHV, ZH DVOO ZH HSLDH Z XVIGZRM
NRMRNZO ZNLFMG LU ZFGSLIHSRK.  LMV XZM ZOHL ZXJFRIV XLKBIRTSG KILGVXGRLM
ULI NZPRMT Z MVD EVIHRLM LU KIVVCRHGRMT NZGVIRZO, KILERWVW RG NZMRUVHGH
HLNV HKZIP LU XIVZGRERGB.

SLDVEVI, XLKBIRTSG WLVH MLG KILGVXG RWVZH, NVGSLWH, HBHGVNHLMOB GSV DZB
GSZG LMV VCKIVHHVH GSLHV GSRMTH.  MLI WLVH XLKBIRTSG KILGVXG ZMBGSRMT
GSZG RH NVXSZMRXZO, ZMBGSRMT GSZG WLVH MLG RMELOEV XSLRXV, LI XIRGVIRZ
XLMXVIMRMT DSVGSVI LI MLG LMV HSLFOW WL Z GSRMT.  ULI VCZNKOV, GSV
IVHFOGH LU Z KILXVHH XZOOVW WVXORXPRMT, RM DSRXS LMV NVXSZMRXZOOB IVNLEVH
RNKFIV HLFMWH UILN LOW IVXLIWRMTH, ZIV MLG XLKBIRTSGZYOV.  LM GSV LGSVI
SZMW, GSV XSLRXV GL IVXLIW Z HLMT WRTRGZOOB ZMW GL RMXIVZHV GSV HLFMW LU
ERLORMH LI GL YIRMT FK GSV GBNKZMR XLMHGRGFGVH GSV IVHFOGH LU XLMEVIHRLM
GSZG ZIV XLKBIRTSGZYOV.  NLIVLEVI, RU Z DLIP RH KILGVXGVW YB XLKBIRTSG RM
GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH, LMV TVMVIZOOB MVVWH GSV KVINRHHRLM LU GSV XLKBIRTSG
LDMVI GL XLMEVIG RG.  MLINZOOB, DSL DROO LDM GSV MVDGSZG RH, XLMEVIGVW
NZGVIRZO RH Z NZGGVI LU XLMGIZXG.  RM GSV ZYHVMXV LU Z XLMGIZXG, GSV
KVIHLM DSL XIVZGVH GSV MVD NZGVIRZO RH GSV ZFGSLI ZMW LDMVI.  YFG KVLKOV
WL MLG TVMVIZOOB GSRMP ZYLFG GSV XLKBIRTSG RNKORXZGRLMH FMGRO ZUGVI GSV
UZXG.  KVGVIH HGIVHHVW GSV MVVW DSVM WVZORMT DRGS XLKBIRTSGVW DLIPH GL
GSRMP ZYLFG XLKBIRTSG RM ZWEZMXV.  LMVH YZITZRMRMT KLDVI RH NFXS TIVZGVI
FK UILMG GSZM RG RH WLDM GSV ILZW.

KVGVIH MVCG WRHXFHHVW DLIPH MLG KILGVXGVW YB XLKBIRTSG, ULI VCZNKOV, ZMB
DLIP WLMV YB Z UVWVIZO VNKOLBVV ZH KZIG LU SRH LI SVI LUURXRZO WFGRVH RH
RM GSV KFYORX WLNZRM RM GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH.  GSV RHHFV RH MLG DSLOOB UIVV
LU WLFYG XLMXVIMRMT DSVGSVI LI MLG GSV DLIP RH RM GSV KFYORX WLNZRM
LFGHRWV GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH.  LGSVI NZGVIRZOH RM GSV KFYORX WLNZRM RMXOFWV:
ZMB DLIPH KFYORHSVW NLIV GSZM HVEVMGBUREV BVZIH ZTL, ZMW ZMB DLIP
KFYORHSVW RM GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH NLIV GSZM GDVMGBVRTSG BVZIH ZTL, DSLHV
XLKBIRTSG DZH MLG IVMVDVW.  RM GZOPRMT ZYLFG GSV MVD GVXSMLOLTB ZMW
KFGGRMT NZGVIRZO RM Z WRTRGZO ULIN GL HVMW ZOO LEVI GSV DLIOW, KVGVIH
XZFGRLMVW, LMV NFHG PVVK RM NRMW GSZG DSROV GSV IRTSGH NZB MLG YV ZM
RHHFV RM GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH, GSVB NZB YV RM WRUUVIVMG KZIGH LU GSV DLIOW,
DSVIV NLHG XLFMGIRVH KIVERLFHOB VNKOLBVW Z XLKBIRTSG GVIN LU GSV ORUV LU
GSV ZFGSLI KOFH URUGB BVZIH.

KVGVIH MVCG IVERVDVW GSV VXLMLNRXH LU XLKBIRTSG SLOWRMT.  HRNKOB,
VXLMLNRX IRTSGH ZIV GSV IRTSGH GL XLMGILO GSV IVKILWFXGRLM LU Z DLIP RM
ZMB ULIN.  GSVB YVOLMT GL GSV ZFGSLI, LI RM GSV XZHV LU Z DLIP NZWV ULI
SRIV, GSV VNKOLBVI.  GSV HVXLMW IRTSG, DSRXS RH XIRGRXZO GL XLMEVIHRLM,
RH GSV IRTSG GL XSZMTV Z DLIP.  GSV IRTSG GL NZPV MVD EVIHRLMH RH KVISZKH
LMV LU GSV NLHG HRTMRURXZMG IRTSGH LU ZFGSLIH, KZIGRXFOZIOB RM ZM
VOVXGILMRX DLIOW.  GSV GSRIW IRTSG RH GSV IRTSG GL KFYORHS GSV DLIP ZMW
GSV IRTSG GL WRHHVNRMZGV RG, HLNVGSRMT GSZG VEVIBLMV DSL WVZOH RM ZM
VOVXGILMRX NVWRFN MVVWH GL PMLD.  GSV YZHRX IFOV RH RU Z XLKB RH HLOW,
ZOO IRTSGH LU WRHGIRYFGRLM ZIV VCGRMTFRHSVW DRGS GSV HZOV LU GSZG XLKB.
GSV PVB RH GSZG RG NFHG YV HLOW.  Z MFNYVI LU XLNKZMRVH LEVIXLNV GSRH
LYHGZXOV YB OVZHRMT LI IVMGRMT GSVRI KILWFXG.  GSVHV XLNKZMRVH ZITFV GSZG
RU GSV NZGVIRZO RH IVMGVW LI OVZHVW ZMW MLG HLOW, GSVB XLMGILO GSV FHVH
LU Z DLIP.  GSV ULFIGS IRTSG, ZMW LMV EVIB RNKLIGZMG RM Z WRTRGZO DLIOW,
RH Z IRTSG LU KFYORX KVIULINZMXV, DSRXS NVZMH GSV IRTSG GL HSLD GSV DLIP
HVJFVMGRZOOB.  ULI VCZNKOV, XLKBIRTSG LDMVIH XLMGILO GSV HSLDRMT LU Z
XWILN KILWFXG RM Z KFYORX KOZXV HFXS ZH Z KFYORX ORYIZIB.  GSV IVEVIHV
HRWV LU KFYORX KVIULINZMXV RH HLNVGSRMT XZOOVW GSV IRTSG LU KFYORX
WRHKOZB.  NLIZO IRTSGH ZOHL VCRHG, DSRXS ZG GSV UVWVIZO OVEVO ZKKOB LMOB
GL EVIB ORNRGVW ERHFZO DLIPH LU ZIG, YFG RM GSVLIB NZB ZKKOB FMWVI
XLMGIZXG ZMW LGSVI KIRMXRKOVH.  NLIZO IRTSGH NZB RMXOFWV GSV IRTSG LU ZM
ZFGSLI GL SZEV SRH LI SVI MZNV LM Z DLIP, GSV IRTSG LU ZGGIRYFGRLM, ZMW
GSV IRTSG GL LYQVXG GL WRHGLIGRLM LI NFGROZGRLMGSV IRTSG LU RMGVTIRGB.

GSV DZB XLKBIRTSG OZD RH DLIWVW TREVH NFXS OZGRGFWV GL ZXGRERGRVH HFXS ZH
KIVHVIEZGRLM GL FHV LU NZGVIRZO ULI HXSLOZIOB ZMW IVHVZIXS KFIKLHVH DSVM
GSV FHVI WLVH MLG NZPV NFOGRKOV XLKRVH ZMW GL GSV TVMVIZGRLM LU
UZXHRNROV XLKRVH LU FMKFYORHSVW DLIPH YB ORYIZIRVH ULI GSVNHVOEVH ZMW
LGSVI ORYIZIRVH.  YFG GSV OZD WLVH MLG ZOOLD ZMBLMV GL YVXLNV GSV
WRHGIRYFGLI LU GSV KILWFXG ULI GSV VMGRIV DLIOW.  RM GLWZBH VOVXGILMRX
VMERILMNVMG, KFYORHSVIH ZIV VCGIVNVOB XLMXVIMVW GSZG GSV VMGRIV DLIOW RH
MVGDLIPVW ZMW XZM LYGZRM GSV RMULINZGRLM WVHRIVW UILN Z HRMTOV XLKB RM Z
HRMTOV ORYIZIB.  SVMXV, RU GSVIV RH GL YV LMOB LMV HZOV, DSRXS KFYORHSVIH
NZB XSLLHV GL OREV DRGS, GSVB DROO LYGZRM GSVRI NLMVB RM LGSVI DZBH, ULI
