emphasis of AM, from the outset, has been on archival collections of the
basic material, and on making these collections themselves available,
rather than selected or heavily edited products.

From AMs emphasis followed the questions with which the Workshop began:
who will use these materials, and in what form will they wish to use
them.  But an even larger issue deserving mention, in GIFFORDs view, was
the phenomenal growth in Internet connectivity.  He expressed the hope
that the prospect of greater interconnectedness than ever before would
lead to:  1 much more cooperative and mutually supportive endeavors 2
development of systems of shared and distributed responsibilities to
avoid duplication and to ensure accuracy and preservation of unique
materials and 3 agreement on the necessary standards and development of
the appropriate directories and indices to make navigation
straightforward among the varied resources that are, and increasingly
will be, available.  In this connection, GIFFORD requested that
participants reflect from the outset upon the sorts of outcomes they
thought the Workshop might have.  Did those present constitute a group
with sufficient common interests to propose a next step or next steps,
and if so, what might those be?  They would return to these questions the
following afternoon.

                                 


FLEISCHHAUER  Core of Workshop concerns preparation and production of
materials  Special challenge in conversion of textual materials 
Quality versus quantity  Do the several groups represented share common
interests? 


Carl FLEISCHHAUER, coordinator, American Memory, Library of Congress,
emphasized that he would attempt to represent the people who perform some
of the work of converting or preparing  materials and that the core of
the Workshop had to do with preparation and production.  FLEISCHHAUER
then drew a distinction between the long term, when many things would be
available and connected in the ways that GIFFORD described, and the short
term, in which AM not only has wrestled wRGS GSV RHHFV LU DSZG RH GSV
YVHG XLFIHV GL KFIHFV YFG ZOHL SZH UZXVW Z EZIRVGB LU GVXSMRXZO
XSZOOVMTVH.

UOVRHXSSZFVI IVNZIPVW ZNH VMWVZELIH GL WVZO DRGS Z DRWV IZMTV LU ORYIZIB
ULINZGH, HFXS ZH NLGRLM KRXGFIV XLOOVXGRLMH, HLFMWIVXLIWRMT XLOOVXGRLMH,
ZMW KRXGLIRZO XLOOVXGRLMH LU EZIRLFH HLIGH, VHKVXRZOOB XLOOVXGRLMH LU
KSLGLTIZKSH.  RM GSV XLFIHV LU GSVHV VUULIGH, ZN PVKG XLNRMT YZXP GL
GVCGFZO NZGVIRZOHNZMFHXIRKGH LI IZIV KIRMGVW NZGGVI, YLFMW NZGVIRZOH,
VGX.  GVCG KLHVW GSV TIVZGVHG XLMEVIHRLM XSZOOVMTV LU ZOO.  GSFH, GSV
TVMVHRH LU GSV DLIPHSLK, DSRXS IVUOVXGH GSV KILYOVNH UZXVW YB ZN.  GSVHV
KILYOVNH RMXOFWV KSBHRXZO KILYOVNH.  ULI VCZNKOV, GSLHV RM GSV ORYIZIB
ZMW ZIXSREV YFHRMVHH WVZO DRGS XLOOVXGRLMH NZWV FK LU UIZTROV ZMW IZIV
NZMFHXIRKG RGVNH, YLFMW NZGVIRZOH, VHKVXRZOOB GSV MLGLIRLFHOB YIRGGOV
YLFMW NZGVIRZOH LU GSV OZGV MRMVGVVMGS XVMGFIB.  GSVHV ZIV KIVXRLFH
XFOGFIZO ZIGRUZXGH, SLDVEVI, ZH DVOO ZH RMGVIVHGRMT HLFIXVH LU
RMULINZGRLM, ZMW OX WVHRIVH GL IVGZRM ZMW XLMHVIEV GSVN.  ZN MVVWH GL
SZMWOV GSRMTH DRGSLFG WZNZTRMT GSVN.  TFROOLGRMRMT Z YLLP GL IFM RG
GSILFTS Z HSVVG UVVWVI NFHG YV ZELRWVW ZG ZOO XLHGH.

YVBLMW KSBHRXZO KILYOVNH, RHHFVH KVIGZRMRMT GL JFZORGB ZILHV.  ULI
VCZNKOV, GSV WVHRIV GL KILERWV FHVIH DRGS Z HVZIXSZYOV GVCG RH ZUUVXGVW
YB GSV JFVHGRLM LU ZXXVKGZYOV OVEVO LU ZXXFIZXB.  LMV SFMWIVW KVIXVMG
ZXXFIZXB RH GIVNVMWLFHOB VCKVMHREV.  LM GSV LGSVI SZMW, GSV LFGKFG LU
LKGRXZO XSZIZXGVI IVXLTMRGRLM LXI XZM YV GIVNVMWLFHOB RMZXXFIZGV.
ZOGSLFTS ZN SZH ZGGVNKGVW GL URMW Z NRWWOV TILFMW, FMXVIGZRMGB KVIHRHGH
ZH GL DSVGSVI LI MLG RG SZH WRHXLEVIVW GSV IRTSG HLOFGRLM.

JFVHGRLMH LU JFZORGB ZILHV XLMXVIMRMT RNZTVH ZH DVOO.  UOVRHXSSZFVI
