the Cornell Xerox Project with AMs efforts to provide a browsequality
or accessquality image, as opposed to an archival or preservation image.
FLEISCHHAUER therefore welcomed the opportunity to compare notes.

FLEISCHHAUER observed in passing that conversations he had had about
networks have begun to signal that for various forms of media a
determination may be made that there is a browsequality item, or a
distributionandaccessquality item that may coexist in some systems
with a higher quality archival item that would be inconvenient to send
through the network because of its size.  FLEISCHHAUER referred, of
course, to images more than to searchable text.

As AM considered those questions, several conceptual issues arose:  ought
AM occasionally to reproduce materials entirely through an image set, at
other times, entirely through a text set, and in some cases, a mix?
There probably would be times when the historical authenticity of an
artifact would require that its image be used.  An image might be
desirable as a recourse for users if one could not provide 100percent
accurate text.  Again, AM wondered, as a practical matter, if a
distinction could be drawn between rare printed matter that might exist
in multiple collectionsthat is, in ten or fifteen libraries.  In such
cases, the need for perfect reproduction would be less than for unique
items.  Implicit in his remarks, FLEISCHHAUER conceded, was the admission
that AM has been tilting strongly towards quantity and drawing back a
little from perfect quality.  That is, it seemed to AM that society would
be better served if more things were distributed by LCeven if they were
not quite perfectthan if fewer things, perfectly represented, were
distributed.  This was stated as a proposition to be tested, with
responses to be gathered from users.

In thinking about issues related to reproduction of materials and seeing
other people engaged in parallel activities, AM deemed it useful to
convene a conference.  Hence, the Workshop.  FLEISCHHAUER thereupon
surveyed the several groups represented:  1 the world of images image
users and image makers 2 the world of text and scholarship and, within
this group, those concerned with languageFLEISCHHAUER confessed to finding
delightful irony in the fact that some of the most advanced thinkers on
computerized texts are those dealing with ancient Greek and Roman materials
3 the network world and 4 the general world of library science, which
includes people interested in preservation and cataloging.

FLEISCHHAUER concluded his remarks with special thanks to the David and
Lucile Packard Foundation for its support of the meetinT, GSV ZNVIRXZM
NVNLIB TILFK, GSV LUURXV ULI HXSLOZIOB KILTIZNH, GSV MZGRLMZO
WVNLMHGIZGRLM OZY, ZMW GSV LUURXV LU HKVXRZO VEVMGH.  SV VCKIVHHVW GSV
SLKV GSZG WZERW DLLWOVB KZXPZIW NRTSG YV ZYOV GL ZGGVMW, MLGRMT GSZG
KZXPZIWH DLIP ZMW GSV DLIP LU GSV ULFMWZGRLM SZW HKLMHLIVW Z MFNYVI LU
KILQVXGH RM GSV GVCG ZIVZ.

                                 

HVHHRLM R.  XLMGVMG RM Z MVD ULIN:   DSL DROO FHV RG ZMW DSZG DROO GSVB WL?


WZOB  ZXPMLDOVWTVNVMGH  Z MVD OZGRM ZFGSLIH WRHP   VUUVXGH LU GSV MVD
GVXSMLOLTB LM KIVERLFH NVGSLWH LU IVHVZIXS 


HVIERMT ZH NLWVIZGLI, QZNVH WZOB ZXPMLDOVWTVW GSV TVMVILHRGB LU ZOO GSV
KIVHVMGVIH ULI TRERMT LU GSVRI GRNV, XLFMHVO, ZMW KZGRVMXV RM KOZMMRMT
GSV DLIPHSLK, ZH DVOO ZH LU NVNYVIH LU GSV ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB KILQVXG ZMW
LGSVI ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH HGZUU, ZMW GSV WZERW ZMW OFXROV KZXPZIW
ULFMWZGRLM ZMW RGH VCVXFGREV WRIVXGLI, XLOYFIM H. DROYFI.

