in the Humanities CETH and the Department of Classics at Rutgers
University, where an old friend, Lowell Edmunds, introduced him to the
departments IBYCUS scholarly personal computer, and, in particular, the
new Latin CDROM, containing, among other things, almost all classical
Latin literary texts through A.D. 200.  Packard Humanities Institute
PHI, Los Altos, California, released this disk late in 1991, with a
nominal triennial licensing fee.

Playing with the disk for an hour or so at Rutgers brought home to DALY
at once the revolutionizing impact of the new technology on his previous
methods of research.  Had this disk been available two or three years
earlier, DALY contended, when he was engaged in preparing a commentary on
Book 10 of Virgils Aeneid for Cambridge University Press, he would not
have required a fortyeightsquarefoot table on which to spread the
numerous, most frequently consulted items, including some ten or twelve
concordances to key Latin authors, an almost equal number of lexica to
authors who lacked concordances, and where either lexica or concordances
were lacking, numerous editions of authors antedating and postdating Virgil.

Nor, when checking each of the average six to seven words contained in
the Virgilian hexameter for its usage elsewhere in Virgils works or
other Latin authors, would DALY have had to maintain the laborious
mechanical process of flipping through these concordances, lexica, and
editions each time.  Nor would he have had to frequent as often the
Milton S. Eisenhower Library at the Johns Hopkins University to consult
the Thesaurus Linguae Latinae.  Instead of devoting countless hours, or
the bulk of his research time, to gathering data concerning Virgils use
of words, DALYnow freed by PHIs Latin authors disk from the
tyrannical, yet in some ways paradoxically happy scholarly drudgery
would have been able to devote that same bulk of time to analyzing and
interpreting Virgilian verbal usage.

Citing Theodore Brunner, Gregory Crane, Elli MYLONAS, and Avra MICHELSON,
DALY argued that this reversal in his style of work, made possible by the
new technology, would perhaps have rVHFOGVW RM YVGGVI, NLIV KILWFXGREV
IVHVZIXS.  RMWVVW, VEVM RM GSV XLFIHV LU SRH YILDHRMT GSV OZGRM ZFGSLIH
WRHP ZG IFGTVIH, RGH KLDVIUFO HVZIXS, IVGIRVEZO, ZMW SRTSORTSGRMT
XZKZYRORGRVH HFTTVHGVW GL SRN HVEVIZO MVD ZEVMFVH LU IVHVZIXS RMGL
ERITROH FHV LU HLFMW VUUVXGH.  GSRH ZMVXWLGZO ZXXLFMG, WZOB NZRMGZRMVW,
NZB HVIEV GL ROOFHGIZGV RM KZIG GSV HFWWVM ZMW IZWRXZO GIZMHULINZGRLM
YVRMT DILFTSG RM GSV DZBH HXSLOZIH DLIP.

                                 


NRXSVOHLM  VOVNVMGH IVOZGVW GL HXSLOZIHSRK ZMW GVXSMLOLTB  VOVXGILMRX
GVCGH DRGSRM GSV XLMGVCG LU YILZWVI GIVMWH DRGSRM RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTB
ZMW HXSLOZIOB XLNNFMRXZGRLM  VEZOFZGRLM LU GSV KILHKVXGH ULI GSV FHV LU
VOVXGILMRX GVCGH  IVOZGRLMHSRK LU VOVXGILMRX GVCGH GL KILXVHHVH LU
HXSLOZIOB XLNNFMRXZGRLM RM SFNZMRGRVH IVHVZIXS  MVD VCXSZMTV ULINZGH
XIVZGVW YB HXSLOZIH  KILQVXGH RMRGRZGVW GL RMXIVZHV HXSLOZIOB ZXXVHH GL
XLMEVIGVW GVCG  GIVMW GLDZIW NZPRMT VOVXGILMRX IVHLFIXVH ZEZROZYOV
GSILFTS IVHVZIXS ZMW VWFXZGRLM MVGDLIPH  XSZMTVH GZPRMT KOZXV RM
HXSLOZIOB XLNNFMRXZGRLM ZNLMT SFNZMRGRVH HXSLOZIH  MVGDLIPNVWRZGVW
HXSLOZIHSRK GIZMHULINRMT GIZWRGRLMZO HXSLOZIOB KIZXGRXVH  PVB
RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTB GIVMWH ZUUVXGRMT GSV XLMWFXG LU HXSLOZIOB
XLNNFMRXZGRLM LEVI GSV MVCG WVXZWV  GSV GIVMW GLDZIW VMWFHVI XLNKFGRMT
 GSV GIVMW GLDZIW TIVZGVI XLMMVXGRERGB  VUUVXGH LU GSVHV GIVMWH  PVB
GIZMHULINZGRLMH GZPRMT KOZXV  HFNNZIB LU KIRMXRKZO ZITFNVMGH 


ZEIZ NRXSVOHLM, ZIXSREZO IVHVZIXS ZMW VEZOFZGRLM HGZUU, MZGRLMZO ZIXSREVH
ZMW IVXLIWH ZWNRMRHGIZGRLM MZIZ, ZITFVW GSZG VHGZYORHSRMT DSL DROO FHV
VOVXGILMRX GVCGH ZMW DSZG GSVB DROO FHV GSVN ULI RMELOEVH Z XLMHRWVIZGRLM
LU YLGS RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTB ZMW HXSLOZIHSRK GIVMWH.  GSRH
XLMHRWVIZGRLM RMXOFWVH HVEVIZO VOVNVMGH IVOZGVW GL HXSLOZIHSRK ZMW
