relevant to scholarship 2 the key trends in the use of currently
available technology by scholars in the nonscientific community and 3
the relationship between these two very distinct but interrelated trends.
The investment in understanding this relationship being made by
information providers, technologists, and public policy developers, as
well as by scholars themselves, seems to be pervasive and growing,
MICHELSON contended.  She drew on collaborative work with Jeff Rothenberg
on the scholarly use of technology.

MICHELSON sought to place the phenomenon of electronic texts within the
context of broader trends within information technology and scholarly
communication.  She argued that electronic texts are of most use to
researchers to the extent that the researchers working context i.e.,
their relevant bibliographic sources, collegial feedback, analytic tools,
notes, drafts, etc., along with their fields primary and secondary
sources, also is accessible in electronic form and can be integrated in
ways that are unique to the online environment.

Evaluation of the prospects for the use of electronic texts includes two
elements:  1 an examination of the ways in which researchers currently
are using electronic texts along with other electronic resources, and 2
an analysis of key information technology trends that are affecting the
longterm conduct of scholarly communication.  MICHELSON limited her
discussion of the use of electronic texts to the practices of humanists
and noted that the scientific community was outside the panels overview.

MICHELSON examined the nature of the current relationship of electronic
texts in particular, and electronic resources in general, to what she
maintained were, essentially, five processes of scholarly communication
in humanities research.  Researchers 1 identify sources, 2 communicate
with their colleagues, 3 interpret and analyze data, 4 disseminate
their research findings, and 5 prepare curricula to instruct the next
generation of scholars and students.  This examination would produce a
clearer understanding of the synergy among these five processes that
fuels the tendency of the use of electronic resources for one process to
stimulate its use for other processes of scholarly communication.

For the first process of scholarly communication, the identification of
sources, MICHELSON remarked the opportunity scholars now enjoy to
supplement traditional wordofmouth searches for sources among their
colleagues with new forms of electronic searching.  So, for example,
instead of having to visit the library, researchers are able to explore
descriptions of holdings in their LUURXVH.  UFIGSVINLIV, RU GSVRI LDM
RMHGRGFGRLMH SLOWRMTH KILEV RMHFUURXRVMG, HXSLOZIH XZM ZXXVHH NLIV GSZM
200 NZQLI ZNVIRXZM ORYIZIB XZGZOLTFVH LEVI RMGVIMVG, RMXOFWRMT GSV
FMREVIHRGRVH LU XZORULIMRZ, NRXSRTZM, KVMMHBOEZMRZ, ZMW DRHXLMHRM.
WRIVXG ZXXVHH GL GSV YRYORLTIZKSRX WZGZYZHVH LUUVIH RMGVOOVXGFZO
VNKLDVINVMG GL HXSLOZIH YB KIVHVMGRMT Z XLNKIVSVMHREV NVZMH LU YILDHRMT
GSILFTS ORYIZIRVH UILN GSVRI SLNVH ZMW LUURXVH ZG GSVRI XLMEVMRVMXV.

GSV HVXLMW KILXVHH LU XLNNFMRXZGRLM RMELOEVH XLNNFMRXZGRLM ZNLMT
HXSLOZIH.  YVBLMW GSV NLHG XLNNLM NVGSLWH LU XLNNFMRXZGRLM, HXSLOZIH ZIV
FHRMT VNZRO ZMW Z EZIRVGB LU MVD VOVXGILMRX XLNNFMRXZGRLMH ULINZGH
WVIREVW UILN RG ULI UFIGSVI ZXZWVNRX RMGVIXSZMTV.  VNZRO VCXSZMTVH ZIV
TILDRMT ZG ZM ZHGLMRHSRMT IZGV, IVKLIGVWOB 15 KVIXVMG Z NLMGS.  GSVB
XFIIVMGOB XLMHGRGFGV ZKKILCRNZGVOB SZOU GSV GIZUURX LM IVHVZIXS ZMW
VWFXZGRLM MVGDLIPH.  NLIVLEVI, GSV TOLYZO HKIVZW LU VNZRO SZH YVVM HL
IZKRW GSZG RG RH MLD KLHHRYOV ULI ZNVIRXZM HXSLOZIH GL FHV RG GL
XLNNFMRXZGV DRGS XLOOVZTFVH RM XOLHV GL 140 LGSVI XLFMGIRVH.

LGSVI MVD VCXSZMTV ULINZGH XIVZGVW YB HXSLOZIH ZMW LKVIZGRMT LM RMGVIMVG
RMXOFWV NLIV GSZM 700 XLMUVIVMXVH, DRGS ZYLFG 80 KVIXVMG LU GSVHV WVELGVW
GL GLKRXH RM GSV HLXRZO HXRVMXVH ZMW SFNZMRGRVH.  GSV IZGV LU TILDGS LU
GSVHV HXSLOZIOB VOVXGILMRX XLMUVIVMXVH ZOHL RH ZHGLMRHSRMT.  UILN O990 GL
O991, 200 MVD XLMUVIVMXVH DVIV RWVMGRURVW LM RMGVIMVG.  UILN LXGLYVI 1991
