viewing workstation has been created by Xerox, with input into the design
by a committee of Cornell librarians and computer professionals.  This
will allow us to experiment with patron access to the images that make up
the digital library.  The viewing station provides search, retrieval, and
ultimately printing functions with enhancements to facilitate
navigation through multiple documents.

Cornell currently is working to extend access to the digital library to
readers using workstations from their offices.  This year is devoted to
the development of a network resident image conversion and delivery
server, and client software that will support readers who use Apple
Macintosh computers, IBM windows platforms, and Sun workstations.
Equipment for this development was provided by Sun Microsystems with
support from the Commission on Preservation and Access.

During the showandtell session of the Workshop on Electronic Texts, a
prototype view station will be demonstrated.  In addition, a display of
original library books that have been digitized will be available for
review with associated printed copies for comparison.  The fifteenminute
overview of the project will include a slide presentation that
constitutes a "tour" of the preservation digitizing process.

The final networkconnected version of the viewing station will provide
library users with another mechanism for accessing the digital library,
and will also provide the capability of viewing images directly.  This
will not require special software, although a powerful computer with good
graphics will be needed.

The Joint Study in Digital Preservation has generated a great deal of
interest in the library community.  Unfortunately, or perhaps
fortunately, this project serves to raise a vast number of other issues
surrounding the use of digital technology for the preservation and use of
deteriorating library materials, which subsequent projects will need to
examine.  Much work remains.

SESSION III

Howard BESSER                      Networking Multimedia Databases

What do we have to consider in building and distributing databases of
visual materials in a multiuser environment?  This presentation examines
a variety of concerns that need to be addressed before a multimedia
database can be set up in a networked environment.

In the past it has not been feasible to implement databases of visual
materials in shareduser environments because of technological barriers.
Each of the two basic models for multiuser multimedia databases has
posed its own problem.  The analog multimedia storage model represented
by Project Athenas parallel analog and digital networks has required an
incredibly complex and expensive infrastructure.  The economies of
scale that make multiuser setups cheaper per user served do not operate
in an environment that requires a computer workstation, videodisc player,
and two display devices for each user.

The digital multimedia storage model has required vast amounts of storage
space as much as one gigabyte per thirty still images.  In the past the
cost of such a large amount of storage space made this model a
prohibitive choice as well.  But plunging storage costs are finally
making this second alternative viable.

If storage no longer poses such an impediment, what do we need to
consider in building digitally stored multiuser databases of visual
materials?  This presentation will examine the networking and
telecommunication constraints that must be overcome before such databases
can become commonplace and useful to a large number of people.

The key problem is the vast size of multimedia documents, and how this
affects not only storage but telecommunications transmission time.
Anything slower than T1 speed is impractical for files of 1 megabyte or
larger which is likely to be small for a multimedia document.  For
instance, even on a 56 Kb line it would take three minutes to transfer a
1megabyte file.  And these figures assume ideal circumstances, and do
not take into consideration other users contending for network bandwidth,
disk access time, or the time needed for remote display.  Current common
telephone transmission rates would be completely impractical few users
would be willing to wait the hour necessary to transmit a single image at
2400 baud.

This necessitates compression, which itself raises a number of other
issues.  In order to decrease file sizes significantly, we must employ
lossy compression algorithms.  But how much quality can we afford to
lose?  To date there has been only one significant study done of
imagequality needs for a particular user group, and this study did not
look at loss resulting from compression.  Only after identifying
imagequality needs can we begin to address storage and network bandwidth
needs.

Experience with XWindowsbased applications such as Imagequery, the
University of California at Berkeley image database demonstrates the
utility of a clientserver topology, but also points to the limitation of
current software for a distributed environment.  For example,
applications like Imagequery can incorporate compression, but current X
implementations do not permit decompression at the end users
workstation.  Such decompression at the host computer alleviates storage
capacity problems while doing nothing to address problems of
telecommunications bandwidth.

We need to examine the effects on network throughput of moving
multimedia documents around on a network.  We need to examine various
topologies that will help us avoid bottlenecks around servers and
gateways.  Experience with applications such as these raise still broader
questions. How closely is the multimedia document tied to the software
for viewing it?  Can it be accessed and viewed from other applications?
Experience with the MARC format and more recently with the Z39.50
protocols shows how useful it can be to store documents in a form in
which they can be accessed by a variety of application software.

Finally, from an intellectualaccess standpoint, we need to address the
issue of providing access to these multimedia documents in
interdisciplinary environments.  We need to examine terminology and
indexing strategies that will allow us to provide access to this material
in a crossdisciplinary way.

Ronald LARSEN            Directions in HighPerformance Networking for
                         Libraries

The pace at which computing technology has advanced over the past forty
years shows no sign of abating.  Roughly speaking, each fiveyear period
has yielded an orderofmagnitude improvement in price and performance of
computing equipment.  No fundamental hurdles are likely to prevent this
pace from continuing for at least the next decade.  It is only in the
past five years, though, that computing has become ubiquitous in
libraries, affecting all staff and patrons, directly or indirectly.

During these same five years, communications rates on the Internet, the
principaO ZXZWVNRX XLNKFGRMT MVGDLIP, SZEV TILDM UILN 56 PYKH GL 1.5
NYKH, ZMW GSV MHUMVG YZXPYLMV RH MLD IFMMRMT 45 NYKH.  LEVI GSV MVCG UREV
BVZIH, XLNNFMRXZGRLM IZGVH LM GSV YZXPYLMV ZIV VCKVXGVW GL VCXVVW 1 TYKH.
TILDGS RM YLGS GSV KLKFOZGRLM LU MVGDLIP FHVIH ZMW GSV ELOFNV LU MVGDLIP
GIZUURX  SZH XLMGRMFVW GL TILD TVLNVGIRXZOOB, ZG IZGVH ZKKILZXSRMT 15
KVIXVMG KVI NLMGS.  GSRH UOLLW LU XZKZXRGB ZMW FHV, ORPVMVW YB HLNV GL
"WIRMPRMT UILN Z URIVSLHV,"  XIVZGVH RNNVMHV LKKLIGFMRGRVH ZMW XSZOOVMTVH
ULI ORYIZIRVH.  ORYIZIRVH NFHG ZMGRXRKZGV GSV UFGFIV RNKORXZGRLMH LU GSRH
GVXSMLOLTB, KZIGRXRKZGV RM RGH WVEVOLKNVMG, ZMW WVKOLB RG GL VMHFIV
ZXXVHH GL GSV DLIOWH RMULINZGRLM IVHLFIXVH.

GSV RMUIZHGIFXGFIV ULI GSV RMULINZGRLM ZTV RH YVRMT KFG RM KOZXV.
ORYIZIRVH UZXV HGIZGVTRX WVXRHRLMH ZYLFG GSVRI ILOV RM GSV WVEVOLKNVMG,
WVKOLBNVMG, ZMW FHV LU GSRH RMUIZHGIFXGFIV.  GSV VNVITRMT RMUIZHGIFXGFIV
RH NFXS NLIV GSZM XLNKFGVIH ZMW XLNNFMRXZGRLM ORMVH.  RG RH NLIV GSZM GSV
ZYRORGB GL XLNKFGV ZG Z IVNLGV HRGV, HVMW VOVXGILMRX NZRO GL Z KVVI
ZXILHH GSV XLFMGIB, LI NLEV Z UROV UILN LMV ORYIZIB GL ZMLGSVI.  GSV MVCG
UREV BVZIH DROO DRGMVHH HFYHGZMGRZO WVEVOLKNVMG LU GSV RMULINZGRLM
RMUIZHGIFXGFIV LU GSV MVGDLIP.

RM LIWVI GL KILERWV ZKKILKIRZGV OVZWVIHSRK, ORYIZIB KILUVHHRLMZOH NFHG
SZEV Z UFMWZNVMGZO FMWVIHGZMWRMT LU ZMW ZKKIVXRZGRLM ULI XLNKFGVI
MVGDLIPRMT, UILN OLXZO ZIVZ MVGDLIPH GL GSV MZGRLMZO IVHVZIXS ZMW
VWFXZGRLM MVGDLIP MIVM.  GSRH KIVHVMGZGRLM ZWWIVHHVH GSVHV
UFMWZNVMGZOH, ZMW SLD GSVB IVOZGV GL ORYIZIRVH GLWZB ZMW RM GSV MVZI
UFGFIV.

VWDRM YILDMIRTT               VOVXGILMRX ORYIZIB ERHRLMH ZMW IVZORGRVH

GSV VOVXGILMRX ORYIZIB SZH YVVM Z ERHRLM WVHRIVW YB NZMBZMW IVQVXGVW YB
HLNVHRMXV EZMMVEZI YFHS XLRMVW GSV GVIN NVNVC GL WVHXIRYV ZM ZFGLNZGVW,
RMGVOORTVMG, KVIHLMZO RMULINZGRLM HBHGVN.  EZIRZGRLMH LM GSRH ERHRLM SZEV
RMXOFWVW GVW MVOHLMH CZMZWZF, ZOZM PZBH WBMZYLLP, ZMW OZMXZHGVIH
"KZKVIOVHH ORYIZIB," DRGS GSV NLHG IVXVMG RMXZIMZGRLM YVRMT GSV
"PMLDOVWTV MZERTZGLI" WVHXIRYVW YB QLSM HXFOOB LU ZKKOV.  YFG GSV IVZORGB
LU ORYIZIB HVIERXV SZH YVVM OVHH ERHRLMZIB ZMW GSV OVZK GL GSV VOVXGILMRX
ORYIZIB SZH VOFWVW FMREVIHRGRVH, KFYORHSVIH, ZMW RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTB
UROVH.

GSV NVNVC IVHVZIXS RMHGRGFGV NVNIR, ZM RMWVKVMWVMG, MLMKILURG IVHVZIXS
ZMW WVEVOLKNVMG LITZMRAZGRLM, SZH XIVZGVW ZM VOVXGILMRX ORYIZIB KILTIZN
LU HSZIVW IVHVZIXS ZMW WVEVOLKNVMG RM LIWVI GL NZPV GSV XLOOVXGREV ERHRLM
NLIV XLMXIVGV.  GSV KILTIZN RH DLIPRMT GLDZIW GSV XIVZGRLM LU OZITV,
RMWVCVW KFYORXOB ZEZROZYOV VOVXGILMRX RNZTV XLOOVXGRLMH LU KFYORHSVW
WLXFNVMGH RM ZXZWVNRX, HKVXRZO, ZMW KFYORX ORYIZIRVH.  GSRH HGIZGVTRX
KOZM RH GSV IVHFOG LU GSV URIHG HGZTV LU GSV KILTIZN, DSRXS SZH YVVM ZM
RMEVHGRTZGRLM LU GSV RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTRVH ZEZROZYOV GL HFKKLIG HFXS
ZM VUULIG, GSV VXLMLNRX KZIZNVGVIH LU VOVXGILMRX HVIERXV XLNKZIVW GL
GIZWRGRLMZO ORYIZIB LKVIZGRLMH, ZMW GSV YFHRMVHH ZMW KLORGRXZO UZXGLIH
ZUUVXGRMT GSV HSRUG UILN KIRMG WRHGIRYFGRLM GL VOVXGILMRX MVGDLIPVW
ZXXVHH.

GSV HGIZGVTRX KOZM VMERHRLMH Z XLNYRMZGRLM LU KFYORXOB HVZIXSZYOV ZXXVHH
WZGZYZHVH, RNZTV ZMW GVCG WLXFNVMG XLOOVXGRLMH HGLIVW LM MVGDLIP "UROV
HVIEVIH," OLXZO ZMW IVNLGV MVGDLIP ZXXVHH, ZMW ZM RMGVOOVXGFZO KILKVIGB
NZMZTVNVMGXLMGILO HBHGVN.  GSRH XLNYRMZGRLM LU GVXSMLOLTB ZMW
RMULINZGRLM XLMGVMG RH WVURMVW RM GSRH KOZM ZH ZM VORYIZIB LI VORYIZIB
XLOOVXGRLM.  HLNV KZIGRXRKZGRMT HKLMHLIH ZIV ZOIVZWB WVEVOLKRMT KILQVXGH
YZHVW LM NVNIRH IVXLNNVMWVW WRIVXGRLMH.

GSV VORYIZIB HGIZGVTB KILQVXGVW RM GSRH KOZM RH Z ERHRLMZIB LMV GSZG XZM
VMZYOV NZQLI XSZMTVH ZMW RNKILEVNVMGH RM ZXZWVNRX, KFYORX, ZMW HKVXRZO
ORYIZIB HVIERXV.  GSRH ERHRLM RH, GSLFTS, LMV GSZG XZM YV IVZORAVW DRGS
GLWZBH GVXSMLOLTB.  ZG GSV HZNV GRNV, RG DROO XSZOOVMTV GSV KLORGRXZO
ZMW HLXRZO HGIFXGFIV DRGSRM DSRXS ORYIZIRVH LKVIZGV:  RM ZXZWVNRX
ORYIZIRVH, GSV GIZWRGRLMZO VNKSZHRH LM OLXZO XLOOVXGRLMH, VCGVMWRMT GL
ZXXIVWRGZGRLM RHHFVH RM KFYORX ORYIZIRVH, GSV KLGVMGRZO LU VOVXGILMRX
YIZMXS ZMW XVMGIZO ORYIZIRVH UFOOB ZEZROZYOV GL GSV KFYORX ZMW ULI
HKVXRZO ORYIZIRVH, MVD LKKLIGFMRGRVH ULI HSZIVW XLOOVXGRLMH ZMW MVGDLIPH.

GSV VMERILMNVMG RM DSRXS GSRH HGIZGVTRX KOZM SZH YVVM WVEVOLKVW RH, ZG
GSV NLNVMG, WLNRMZGVW YB Z HVMHV LU ORYIZIB ORNRGH.  GSV XLMGRMFVW
VCKZMHRLM ZMW IZKRW TILDGS LU OLXZO ZXZWVNRX ORYIZIB XLOOVXGRLMH RH MLD
XOVZIOB ZG ZM VMW.  XLIKLIZGV ORYIZIRVH, ZMW VEVM OZD ORYIZIRVH, ZIV
UZXVW DRGS LKVIZGRMT DRGSRM Z WRUURXFOG VXLMLNRX XORNZGV, ZH DVOO ZH DRGS
EVIB ZXGREV XLNKVGRGRLM UILN XLNNVIXRZO RMULINZGRLM HLFIXVH.  ULI
VCZNKOV, KFYORX ORYIZIRVH NZB YV HVVM ZH Z WVHRIZYOV YFG MLG XIRGRXZO
NFMRXRKZO HVIERXV RM Z GRNV DSVM GSV YFWTVGH LU HZUVGB ZMW SVZOGS
