demonstrated derived from Perseus 1.0 version 2.0 will implement even
better means of retrieval.

MYLONAS closed by looking at one of the pictures and noting again that
one can do a great deal of research using the iconography as well as the
texts.  For instance, students in a core course at Harvard this year were
highly interested in Greek concepts of foreigners and representations of
nonGreeks.  So they performed a great deal of research, both with texts
e.g., Herodotus and with iconography on vases and coins, on how the
Greeks portrayed nonGreeks.  At the same time, art historians who study
iconography were also interested, and were able to use this material.

                                 


DISCUSSION  Indexing and searchability of all English words in Perseus 
Several features of Perseus 1.0  Several levels of customization
possible  Perseus used for general education  Perseus effects on
education  Contextual information in Perseus  Main challenge and
emphasis of Perseus 


Several points emerged in the discussion that followed MYLONASs presentation.

Although MYLONAS had not demonstrated Perseus ability to crosssearch
documents, she confirmed that all English words in Perseus are indexed
and can be searched.  So, for example, sacrifice could have been searched
in all texts, the historical essay, and all the catalogue entries with
their descriptionsin short, in all of Perseus.

Boolean logic is not in Perseus 1.0 but will be added to the next
version, although an effort is being made not to restrict Perseus to a
database in which one just performs searching, Boolean or otherwise.  It
is possible to move laterally through the documents by selecting a word
one is interested in and selecting an area of information one is
interested in and trying to look that word up in that area.

Since Perseus was developed in HyperCard, several levels of customization
are possible.  Simple authoring tools exist that allow one to creZGV
ZMMLGZGVW KZGSH GSILFTS GSV RMULINZGRLM, DSRXS ZIV FHVUFO ULI MLGVGZPRMT
ZMW ULI TFRWVW GLFIH ULI GVZXSRMT KFIKLHVH ZMW ULI VCKLHRGLIB DIRGRMT.
DRGS Z ORGGOV NLIV RMTVMFRGB RG RH KLHHRYOV GL YVTRM GL ZWW LI HFYHGRGFGV
NZGVIRZO RM KVIHVFH.

KVIHVFH SZH MLG YVVM FHVW HL NFXS ULI XOZHHRXH VWFXZGRLM ZH ULI TVMVIZO
VWFXZGRLM, DSVIV RG HVVNVW GL SZEV ZM RNKZXG LM GSV HGFWVMGH RM GSV XLIV
XLFIHV ZG SZIEZIW Z TVMVIZO IVJFRIVW XLFIHV GSZG HGFWVMGH NFHG GZPV RM
XVIGZRM ZIVZH.  HGFWVMGH DVIV ZYOV GL FHV KIRNZIB NZGVIRZO NFXS NLIV.

GSV KVIHVFH KILQVXG SZH ZM VEZOFZGRLM GVZN ZG GSV FMREVIHRGB LU NZIBOZMW
GSZG SZH YVVM WLXFNVMGRMT KVIHVFH VUUVXGH LM VWFXZGRLM.  KVIHVFH RH EVIB
KLKFOZI, ZMW ZMVXWLGZO VERWVMXV RMWRXZGVH GSZG RG RH SZERMT ZM VUUVXG ZG
KOZXVH LGSVI GSZM SZIEZIW, ULI VCZNKOV, GVHG HRGVH ZG YZOO HGZGV
FMREVIHRGB, WIFIB XLOOVTV, ZMW MFNVILFH HNZOO KOZXVH DSVIV LKKLIGFMRGRVH
GL FHV EZHG ZNLFMGH LU KIRNZIB WZGZ NZB MLG VCRHG.  LMV WLXFNVMGVW VUUVXG
RH GSZG ZIXSZVLOLTRXZO, ZMGSILKLOLTRXZO, ZMW KSROLOLTRXZO IVHVZIXS RH
YVRMT WLMV YB GSV HZNV KVIHLM RMHGVZW LU YB GSIVV WRUUVIVMG KVLKOV.

GSV XLMGVCGFZO RMULINZGRLM RM KVIHVFH RMXOFWVH ZM LEVIERVD VHHZB, Z
UZRIOB ORMVZI SRHGLIRXZO VHHZB LM GSV URUGS XVMGFIB Y.X. GSZG KILERWVH
ORMPH RMGL GSV KIRNZIB NZGVIRZO V.T., SVILWLGFH, GSFXBWRWVH, ZMW
