passages.  These are handmade links into other material.

To different extents, most of the production work was done at Harvard,
where the people and the equipment are located.  Much of the
collaborative activity involved data collection and structuring, because
the main challenge and the emphasis of Perseus is the gathering of
primary material, that is, building a useful environment for studying
classical Greece, collecting data, and making it useful.
Systemsbuilding is definitely not the main concern.  Thus, much of the
work has involved writing essays, collecting information, rewriting it,
and tagging it.  That can be done off site.  The creative link for the
overview essay as well as for both systems and data was collaborative,
and was forged via Email and paper mail with professors at Pomona and
Bowdoin.

                                 


CALALUCA  PLDs principal focus and contribution to scholarship 
Various questions preparatory to beginning the project  Basis for
project  Basic rule in converting PLD  Concerning the images in PLD 
Running PLD under a variety of retrieval softwares  Encoding the
database a hardfought issue  Various features demonstrated  Importance
of user documentation  Limitations of the CDROM version 


Eric CALALUCA, vice president, ChadwyckHealey, Inc., demonstrated a
software interpretation of the Patrologia Latina Database PLD.  PLDs
principal focus from the beginning of the project about threeandahalf
years ago was on converting Mignes Latin series, and in the end,
CALALUCA suggested, conversion of the text will be the major contribution
to scholarship.  CALALUCA stressed that, as possibly the only private
publishing organization at the Workshop, ChadwyckHealey had sought no
federal funds or national foundation support before embarking upon the
project, but instead had relied upon a great deal of homework and
marketing to accomplish the task of conversion.

Ever since the possibilities of computersearching have emerged, scholars
in the field of late ancient and early medieval studies philosophers,
theologians, classicists, and those studying the history of natural law
and the history of the legal development of Western civilization have
been longing for a fully searchable version of Western literature, for
example, all the texts of Augustine and Bernard of Clairvaux and
Boethius, not to mention all the secondary and tertiary authors.

Various questions arose, CALALUCA said.  Should one convert Migne?
Should the database be encoded?  Is it necessary to do that?  How shoFOW
RG YV WVOREVIVW?  DSZG ZYLFG XWILN?  HRMXV GSRH RH Z GIZMHRGRLMZO
NVWRFN, DSB VEVM YLGSVI GL XIVZGV HLUGDZIV GL IFM LM Z XWILN?  HRMXV
VEVIBYLWB PMLDH KVLKOV DROO YV MVGDLIPRMT RMULINZGRLM, DSB TL GL GSV
GILFYOVDSRXS RH UZI TIVZGVI DRGS XWILN GSZM DRGS GSV KILWFXGRLM LU
NZTMVGRX WZGZ?  URMZOOB, SLD WLVH LMV NZPV GSV WZGZ ZEZROZYOV?  XZM NZMB
LU GSV SFIWOVH GL FHRMT VOVXGILMRX RMULINZGRLM GSZG HLNV KFYORHSVIH SZEV
RNKLHVW FKLM WZGZYZHVH YV VORNRMZGVW?

GSV KOW KILQVXG DZH YZHVW LM GSV KIRMXRKOV GSZG XLNKFGVIHVZIXSRMT LU
GVCGH RH NLHG VUUVXGREV DSVM RG RH WLMV DRGS Z OZITV WZGZYZHV.  YVXZFHV
KOW IVKIVHVMGVW Z XLOOVXGRLM GSZG HVIEVH HL NZMB WRHXRKORMVH ZXILHH HL
NZMB KVIRLWH, RG DZH RIIVHRHGRYOV.

GSV YZHRX IFOV RM XLMEVIGRMT KOW DZH GL WL ML SZIN, GL ZELRW GSV HRMH LU
RMGIFHRLM RM HFXS Z WZGZYZHV:  ML RMGILWFXGRLM LU MVDVI VWRGRLMH, ML
