
Further, libraries in general have a very high labortocost ratio in
their budgets, and labor costs are still increasing, notwithstanding
automation investments.  It is difficult for libraries to obtain capital,
startup, or seed funding for innovative activities, and those
technologyintensive initiatives that offer the potential of decreased
labor costs can provoke the opposition of library staff.

However, libraries have achieved some considerable successes in the past
two decades by improving both their service and their credibility within
their organizationsand these positive changes have been accomplished
mostly with judicious use of information technologies.  The advances in
computing and information technology have been wellchronicled:  the
continuing precipitous drop in computing costs, the growth of the
Internet and private networks, and the explosive increase in publicly
available information databases.

For example, OCLC has become one of the largest computer network
organizations in the world by creating a cooperative cataloging network
of more than 6,000 libraries worldwide.  Online public access catalogs
now serve millions of users on more than 50,000 dedicated terminals in
the United States alone.  The University of California MELVYL online
catalog system has now expanded into an index database reference service
and supports more than six million searches a year.  And, libraries have
become the largest group of customers of CDROM publishing technology
more than 30,000 optical media publications such as those offered by
InfoTrac and Silver Platter are subscribed to by U.S. libraries.

This march of technology continues and in the next decade will result in
further innovations that are extremely difficult to predict.  What is
clear is that libraries can now go beyond automation of their order files
and catalogs to automation of their collections themselvesand it is
possible to circumvent the fiscal limitations that appear to obtain
today.

This Electronic Library Strategic Plan recommends a paradigm shift in
library service, and demonstrates the steps necessary to provide improved
library services with limited capacities and operating investments.

SESSION IVA

Anne KENNEY

The CornellXerox Joint Study in Digital Preservation resulted in the
recording of 1,000 brittle books as 600dpi digital images and the
production, on demand, of highquality and archivally sound paper
replacements.  The project, which was supported by the Commission on
Preservation and Access, also investigated some of the issues surrounding
scanning, storing, retrieving, and providing access to digital images in
a network environment.

Anne Kenney will focus on some of the issues surrounding direct scanning
as identified in the Cornell Xerox Project.  Among those to be discussed
are:  image versus text capture indexing and access imagecapture
capabilities a comparison to photocopy and microfilm production and
cost analysis storage formats, protocols, and standards and the use of
this scanning technology for preservation purposes.

The 600dpi digital images produced in the Cornell Xerox Project proved
highly acceptable for creating paper replacements of deteriorating
originals.  The 1,000 scanned volumes provided an array of imagecapture
challenges that are common to nineteenthcentury printing techniques and
embrittled material, and that defy the use of textconversion processes.
These challenges include diminished contrast between text and background,
fragile and deteriorated pages, uneven printing, elaborate type faces,
faint and bold text adjacency, handwritten text and annotations, nonRoman
languages, and a proliferation of illustrated material embedded in text.
The latter category included highfrequency and lowfrequency halftones,
continuous tone photographs, intricate mathematical drawings, maps,
etchings, reversepolarity drawings, and engravings.

The Xerox prototype scanning system provided a number of important
features for capturing this diverse material.  Technicians used multiple
threshold settings, filters, line art and halftone definitions,
autosegmentation, windowing, and softwareediting programs to optimize
image capture.  At the same time, this project focused on production.
The goal was to make scanning as affordable and acceptable as
photocopying and microfilming for preservation reformatting.  A
timeandcost study conducted during the last three months of this
project confirmed the economic viability of digital scanning, and these
findings will be discussed here.

From the outset, the Cornell Xerox Project was predicated on the use of
nonproprietary standards and the use of common protocols when standards
did not exist.  Digital files were created as TIFF images which were
compressed prior to storage using Group 4 CCITT compression.  The Xerox
software is MS DOS based and utilizes offthe shelf programs such as
Microsoft Windows and Wang Image Wizard.  The digital library is designed
to be hardwareindependent and to provide interchangeability with other
institutions through network connections.  Access to the digital files
themselves is twotiered:  Bibliographic records for the computer files
are created in RLIN and Cornells local system and access into the actual
digital images comprising a book is provided through a document control
structure and a networked image fileserver, both of which will be
described.

The presentation will conclude with a discussion of some of the issues
surrounding the use of this technology as a preservation tool storage,
refreshing, backup.

Pamela ANDRE and Judith ZIDAR

The National Agricultural Library NAL has had extensive experience with
raster scanning of printed materials.  Since 1987, the Library has
participated in the National Agricultural Text Digitizing Project NATDP
a cooperative effort between NAL and fortyfive land grant university
libraries.  An overview of the project will be presented, giving its
history and NALs strategy for the future.

An indepth discussion of NATDP will follow, including a description of
the scanning process, from the gathering of the printed materials to the
archiving of the electronic pages.  The type of equipment required for a
standalone scanning workstation and the importance of file management
software will be discussed.  Issues concerning the images themselves will
be addressed briefly, such as image format black and white versus color
gray scale versus dithering and resolution.

Also described will be a study currently in progress by NAL to evaluate
the usefulness of converting microfilm to electronic images in order to
improve access.  With the cooperation of Tuskegee University, NAL has
selected three reels of microfilm from a collection of sixtyseven reels
containing the papers, letters, and drawings of George Washington Carver.
The three reels were converted into 3,500 electronic images using a
specialized microfilm scanner.  The selection, filming, and indexing of
this material will be discussed.

Donald WATERS

Project Open Book, the Yale University Librarys effort to convert 10,
000 books from microfilm to digital imagery, is currently in an advanced
state of planning and organization.  The Yale Library has selected a
major vendor to serve as a partner in the project and as systems
integrator.  In its proposal, the successful vendor helped isolate areas
of risk and uncertainty as well as key issues to be addressed during the
life of the project.  The Yale Library is now poised to decide what
material it will convert to digital image form and to seek funding,
initially for the first phase and then for the entire proQVXG.

GSV KILKLHZO GSZG BZOV ZXXVKGVW ULI GSV RNKOVNVMGZGRLM LU KILQVXG LKVM
YLLP DROO KILERWV ZG GSV VMW LU GSIVV KSZHVH Z XLMEVIHRLM HFYHBHGVN,
YILDHRMT HGZGRLMH WRHGIRYFGVW LM GSV XZNKFH MVGDLIP DRGSRM GSV BZOV
ORYIZIB, Z HFYHBHGVN ULI HGLIRMT 10,000 YLLPH ZG 200 ZMW 600 WLGH KVI
RMXS, ZMW MVGDLIP ZXXVHH GL GSV RNZTV KIRMGVIH.  KIRXRMT ULI GSV HBHGVN
RNKOVNVMGZGRLM ZHHFNVH GSV VCRHGVMXV LU BZOVH XZNKFH VGSVIMVG MVGDLIP
ZMW RGH SRTSHKVVW RNZTV KIRMGVIH, ZMW RMXOFWVH LGSVI IVJFRHRGV SZIWDZIV
ZMW HLUGDZIV, ZH DVOO ZH HBHGVN RMGVTIZGRLM HVIERXVH.  KILKLHVW LKVIZGRMT
XLHGH RMXOFWV SZIWDZIV ZMW HLUGDZIV NZRMGVMZMXV, YFG WL MLG RMXOFWV
VHGRNZGVH ULI GSV UZXRORGRVH NZMZTVNVMG LU GSV HGLIZTV WVERXVH ZMW RNZTV
HVIEVIH.

BZOV HVOVXGVW RGH EVMWLI KZIGMVI RM Z ULINZO KILXVHH, KZIGOB UFMWVW YB
GSV XLNNRHHRLM ULI KIVHVIEZGRLM ZMW ZXXVHH.  ULOOLDRMT Z IVJFVHG ULI
KILKLHZO, GSV BZOV ORYIZIB HVOVXGVW GDL EVMWLIH ZH URMZORHGH GL DLIP DRGS
BZOV HGZUU GL TVMVIZGV Z WVGZROVW ZMZOBHRH LU IVJFRIVNVMGH ULI KILQVXG
LKVM YLLP.  VZXS EVMWLI FHVW GSV IVHFOGH LU GSV IVJFRIVNVMGH ZMZOBHRH GL
TVMVIZGV ZMW HFYNRG Z ULINZO KILKLHZO ULI GSV VMGRIV KILQVXG.  GSRH
XLNKVGRGREV KILXVHH MLG LMOB VMZYOVW GSV BZOV ORYIZIB GL HVOVXG RGH
KIRNZIB EVMWLI KZIGMVI YFG ZOHL IVEVZOVW NFXS ZYLFG GSV HGZGV LU GSV
RNZTRMT RMWFHGIB, ZYLFG GSV EZIBRMT, XLIKLIZGV XLNNRGNVMGH GL GSV NZIPVGH
ULI RNZTRMT GVXSMLOLTB, ZMW ZYLFG GSV EZIBRMT LITZMRAZGRLMZO WBMZNRXH
GSILFTS DSRXS NZQLI XLNKZMRVH ZIV IVHKLMWRMT GL ZMW HVVPRMT GL WVEVOLK
GSVHV NZIPVGH.

KILQVXG LKVM YLLP RH ULXFHVW HKVXRURXZOOB LM GSV XLMEVIHRLM LU RNZTVH
UILN NRXILURON GL WRTRGZO ULIN.  GSV GVXSMLOLTB ULI HXZMMRMT NRXILURON RH
IVZWROB ZEZROZYOV YFG RH XSZMTRMT IZKRWOB.  RM RGH KILQVXG IVJFRIVNVMGH,
GSV BZOV ORYIZIB VNKSZHRAVW UVZGFIVH LU GSV GVXSMLOLTB GSZG ZUUVXG GSV
GVXSMRXZO JFZORGB LU WRTRGZO RNZTV KILWFXGRLM ZMW GSV XLHGH LU XIVZGRMT
ZMW HGLIRMT GSV RNZTV ORYIZIB:  DSZG OVEVOH LU WRTRGZO IVHLOFGRLM XZM YV
ZXSRVEVW YB HXZMMRMT NRXILURON?  SLD WLVH EZIRZGRLM RM GSV JFZORGB LU
NRXILURON, KZIGRXFOZIOB RM URON KILWFXVW GL KIVHVIEZGRLM HGZMWZIWH,
ZUUVXG GSV JFZORGB LU GSV WRTRGZO RNZTVH?  DSZG GVXSMLOLTRVH XZM ZM
LKVIZGLI VUUVXGREVOB ZMW VXLMLNRXZOOB ZKKOB DSVM HXZMMRMT URON GL
HVKZIZGV GDLFK RNZTVH ZMW GL XLMGILO ULI ZMW XLIIVXG RNZTV
RNKVIUVXGRLMH?  SLD XZM JFZORGB XLMGILO YVHG YV RMGVTIZGVW RMGL
WRTRGRARMT DLIP UOLD GSZG RMXOFWVH WLXFNVMG RMWVCRMT ZMW HGLIZTV?

GSV ZXGFZO ZMW VCKVXGVW FHVH LU WRTRGZO RNZTVHHGLIZTV, YILDHRMT,
KIRMGRMT, ZMW LXISVOK WVGVINRMV GSV HGZMWZIWH ULI NVZHFIRMT GSVRI
JFZORGB.  YILDHRMT RH VHKVXRZOOB RNKLIGZMG, YFG GSV UZXRORGRVH ZEZROZYOV
ULI IVZWVIH GL YILDHV RNZTV WLXFNVMGH RH KVISZKH GSV DVZPVHG ZHKVXG LU
RNZTRMT GVXSMLOLTB ZMW NLHG RM MVVW LU WVEVOLKNVMG.  ZH RG WVURMVW RGH
IVJFRIVNVMGH, GSV BZOV ORYIZIB XLMXVMGIZGVW LM HLNV UFMWZNVMGZO ZHKVXGH
LU FHZYRORGB ULI RNZTV WLXFNVMGH:  WLVH GSV HBHGVN SZEV HFUURXRVMG
UOVCRYRORGB GL SZMWOV GSV UFOO IZMTV LU WLXFNVMG GBKVH, RMXOFWRMT
NLMLTIZKSH, NFOGRKZIG ZMW NFOGRELOFNV HVGH, ZMW HVIRZOH, ZH DVOO ZH
NZMFHXIRKG XLOOVXGRLMH?  DSZG XLMEVMGRLMH ZIV MVXVHHZIB GL RWVMGRUB Z
WLXFNVMG FMRJFVOB ULI HGLIZTV ZMW IVGIRVEZO?  DSVIV RH GSV WZGZYZHV LU
IVXLIW ULI HGLIRMT YRYORLTIZKSRX RMULINZGRLM ZYLFG GSV RNZTV WLXFNVMG?
SLD ZIV YZHRX RMGVIMZO HGIFXGFIVH LU WLXFNVMGH, HFXS ZH KZTRMZGRLM, NZWV
ZXXVHHRYOV GL GSV IVZWVI?  SLD ZIV GSV RNZTV WLXFNVMGH KSBHRXZOOB
KIVHVMGVW LM GSV HXIVVM GL GSV IVZWVI?

GSV BZOV ORYIZIB WVHRTMVW KILQVXG LKVM YLLP LM GSV ZHHFNKGRLM GSZG
NRXILURON RH NLIV GSZM ZWVJFZGV ZH Z NVWRFN ULI KIVHVIERMT GSV XLMGVMG LU
WVGVIRLIZGVW ORYIZIB NZGVIRZOH.  ZH KOZMMRMT RM GSV KILQVXG SZH ZWEZMXVW,
RG RH RMXIVZHRMTOB XOVZI GSZG GSV XSZOOVMTV LU WRTRGZO RNZTV GVXSMLOLTB
ZMW GSV PVB GL GSV HFXXVHH LU VUULIGH ORPV KILQVXG LKVM YLLP RH GL
KILERWV Z NVZMH LU YLGS KIVHVIERMT ZMW RNKILERMT ZXXVHH GL GSLHV
WVGVIRLIZGVW NZGVIRZOH.

HVHHRLM REY

TVLITV GSLNZ

RM GSV FHV LU VOVXGILMRX RNZTRMT ULI WLXFNVMG KIVHVIEZGRLM, GSVIV ZIV
HVEVIZO RHHFVH GL XLMHRWVI, HFXS ZH:  VMHFIRMT ZWVJFZGV RNZTV JFZORGB,
NZRMGZRMRMT HFYHGZMGRZO XLMEVIHRLM IZGVH GSILFTSKFG, KILERWRMT FMRJFV
RWVMGRURXZGRLM ULI ZFGLNZGVW ZXXVHH ZMW IVGIRVEZO, ZMW ZXXLNNLWZGRMT
YLFMW ELOFNVH ZMW UIZTROV NZGVIRZO.

GL NZRMGZRM SRTS RNZTV JFZORGB, RNZTV KILXVHHRMT UFMXGRLMH ZIV IVJFRIVW
GL XLIIVXG GSV WVURXRVMXRVH RM GSV HXZMMVW RNZTV.  HLNV XLNNVIXRZOOB
ZEZROZYOV HBHGVNH RMXOFWV GSVHV UFMXGRLMH, DSROV HLNV WL MLG.  GSV
HXZMMVW IZD RNZTV NFHG YV KILXVHHVW GL XLIIVXG XLMGIZHG WVURXRVMXRVH
YLGS KLLI LEVIZOO XLMGIZHG IVHFOGRMT UILN ORTSG KIRMG ZMWLI WZIP
YZXPTILFMW, ZMW EZIRZYOV XLMGIZHG IVHFOGRMT UILN HGZRMH ZMW
YOVVWGSILFTS.  UFIGSVINLIV, GSV HXZM WVMHRGB NFHG YV ZWVJFZGV GL ZOOLD
OVTRYRORGB LU KIRMG ZMW HFUURXRVMG URWVORGB RM GSV KHVFWLSZOUGLMVW TIZB
NZGVIRZO.  YLIWVIH LI KZTVVWTV VUUVXGH NFHG YV IVNLEVW ULI YLGS
XLNKZXGRYRORGB ZMW ZVHGSVGRXH.  KZTV HPVD NFHG YV XLIIVXGVW ULI ZVHGSVGRX
IVZHLMH ZMW GL VMZYOV ZXXFIZGV XSZIZXGVI IVXLTMRGRLM RU WVHRIVW.
XLNKLFMW RNZTVH XLMHRHGRMT LU YLGS GDLGLMVW GVCG ZMW TIZBHXZOV
ROOFHGIZGRLMH NFHG YV KILXVHHVW ZKKILKIRZGVOB GL IVGZRM GSV JFZORGB LU
