of parentheses and asks for things within so many words of others.

Until they became acquainted recently with some of the work being done in
classics, the AM staff had not realized that a large number of the
projects that involve electronic texts were being done by people with a
profound interest in language and linguistics.  Their search strategies
and thinking are oriented to those fields, as is shown in particular by
the Perseus example.  As amateur historians, the AM staff were thinking
more of searching for concepts and ideas than for particular words.
Obviously, FLEISCHHAUER conceded, searching for concepts and ideas and
searching for words may be two rather closely related things.

While displaying several images, FLEISCHHAUER observed that the Macintosh
prototype built by AM contains a greater diversity of formats.  Echoing a
previous speaker, he said that it was easier to stitch things together in
the Macintosh, though it tended to be a little more anemic in search and
retrieval.  AM, therefore, increasingly has been investigating
sophisticated retrieval engines in the IBM format.

FLEISCHHAUER demonstrated several additional examples of the prototype
interfaces:  One was AMs metaphor for the network future, in which a
kind of readingroom graphic suggests how one would be able to go around
to different materials.  AM contains a large number of photographs in
analog video form worked up from a videodisc, which enable users to make
copies to print or incorporate in digital documents.  A framegrabber is
built into the system, making it possible to bring an image into a window
and digitize or print it out.

FLEISCHHAUER next demonstrated sound recording, which included texts.
Recycled from a previous project, the collection included sixty 78rpm
phonograph records of political speeches that were made during and
immediately after World War I.  These constituted approximately three
hours of audio, as AM has digitized it, which occupy 150 megabytes on a
CD.  Thus, they are considerably compressed.  From the catalogue card,
FLEISCHHAUER proceeded to a transcript of a speech with the audio
available and with highlighted text following it aH RG KOZBVW.
Z KSLGLTIZKS SZH YVVM ZWWVW ZMW Z GIZMHXIRKGRLM NZWV.

XLMHRWVIZYOV EZOFV SZH YVVM ZWWVW YVBLMW DSZG GSV ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH
MLINZOOB DLFOW WL RM XZGZOLTFRMT Z HLFMW IVXLIWRMT, DSRXS IZRHVH HVEVIZO
JFVHGRLMH ULI ZN XLMXVIMRMT DSVIV GL WIZD ORMVH ZYLFG SLD NFXS EZOFV RG XZM
ZUULIW GL ZWW ZMW ZG DSZG KLRMG, KVISZKH, GSRH YVXLNVH NLIV GSZM ZN XLFOW
IVZHLMZYOB WL LI IVZHLMZYOB DRHS GL WL.  UOVRHXSSZFVI ZOHL WVNLMHGIZGVW
Z NLGRLM KRXGFIV.  ZH UIVVNZM SZW IVKLIGVW VZIORVI, GSV NLGRLM KRXGFIV
NZGVIRZOH SZEV KILEVW GSV NLHG KLKFOZI, MLG HFIKIRHRMTOB.  GSRH HZBH NLIV
ZYLFG GSV NVWRFN, SV GSLFTSG, GSZM ZYLFG ZNH KIVHVMGZGRLM LU RG.

YVXZFHV ZNH TLZO DZH GL YIRMT GLTVGSVI GSRMTH GSZG XLFOW YV FHVW YB
SRHGLIRZMH LI YB KVLKOV DSL DVIV XFIRLFH ZYLFG SRHGLIB,
GFIMLUGSVXVMGFIB ULLGZTV HVVNVW GL IVKIVHVMG GSV NLHG ZKKILKIRZGV
XLOOVXGRLMH UILN GSV ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH RM NLGRLM KRXGFIVH. GSVHV DVIV
GSV EVIB URIHG URONH NZWV YB GSLNZH VWRHLMH XLNKZMB ZMW HLNV LGSVIH ZG
GSZG GRNV.  GSV KZIGRXFOZI VCZNKOV ROOFHGIZGVW DZH Z YRLTIZKS URON,
YILFTSG RM DRGS Z UIZNVTIZYYVI RMGL Z DRMWLD.  Z HRMTOV ERWVLWRHX
XLMGZRMH ZYLFG URUGB GRGOVH ZMW KRVXVH LU URON UILN GSZG KVIRLW, ZOO LU
MVD BLIP XRGB.  GZPVM GLTVGSVI, ZN YVORVEVH, GSVB KILERWV ZM RMGVIVHGRMT
WLXFNVMGZIB IVHLFIXV.

                                 


WRHXFHHRLM  FHRMT GSV UIZNVTIZYYVI RM ZN  ELOFNV LU NZGVIRZO KILXVHHVW
ZMW GL YV KILXVHHVW  KFIKLHV LU ZN DRGSRM OX  XZGZOLTFRMT ZMW GSV
