accuracy can lead to exposing or sharing larger amounts, but with the
quality correspondingly impaired.

                                 


TWOHIG  A contrary experience concerning electronic options  Volume of
material in the Washington papers and a suggestion of David Packard 
Implications of Packards suggestion  Transcribing the documents for the
CDROM  Accuracy of transcriptions  The CDROM edition of the Founding
Fathers documents 


Finding encouragement in a comment of MICHELSONs from the morning
sessionthat numerous people in the humanities were choosing electronic
options to do their workDorothy TWOHIG, editor, The Papers of George
Washington, opened her illustrated talk by noting that her experience
with literary scholars and numerous people in editing was contrary to
MICHELSONs.  TWOHIG emphasized literary scholars complete ignorance of
the technological options available to them or their reluctance or, in
some cases, their downright hostility toward these options.

After providing an overview of the five Founding Fathers projects
Jefferson at Princeton, Franklin at Yale, John Adams at the
Massachusetts Historical Society, and Madison down the hall from her at
the University of Virginia, TWOHIG observed that the Washington papers,
like all of the projects, include both sides of the Washington
correspondence and deal with some 135,000 documents to be published with
extensive annotation in eighty to eightyfive volumes, a project that
will not be completed until well into the next century.  Thus, it was
with considerable enthusiasm several years ago that the Washington Papers
Project WPP greeted David Packards suggestion that the papers of the
Founding Fathers could be published easily and inexpensively, and to the
great benefit of American scholarship, via CDROM.

In pragmatic terms, funding from the Packard Foundation would expedite
the transcription of thousands of documents waiting to be put on disk in
the WPP offices.  Further, since the costs of collecting, editing, and
converting the Founding Fathers documents into letterpress editions were
running into the millions of dollars, and the considerable staffs
involved in all of these projects were devoting their careers to
producing the woIP, GSV KZXPZIW ULFMWZGRLMH HFTTVHGRLM SZW Z
IVELOFGRLMZIB ZHKVXG:  GIZMHXIRKGRLMH LU GSV VMGRIV XLIKFH LU GSV
ULFMWRMT UZGSVIH KZKVIH DLFOW YV ZEZROZYOV LM XWILN GL KFYORX ZMW
XLOOVTV ORYIZIRVH, VEVM SRTS HXSLLOH, ZG Z UIZXGRLM LU GSV XLHG
100150 ULI GSV ZMMFZO ORXVMHV UVVGL KILWFXV Z ORNRGVW FMREVIHRGB
KIVHH IFM LU 1,000 LU VZXS ELOFNV LU GSV KFYORHSVW KZKVIH ZG 45150 KVI
KIRMGVW ELOFNV.  TREVM GSV XFIIVMG YFWTVG XIFMXS RM VWFXZGRLMZO HBHGVNH
ZMW GSV XLIIVHKLMWRMT XLMHGIZRMGH LM ORYIZIRZMH RM HNZOOVI RMHGRGFGRLMH
DSL DRHS GL ZWW GSVHV ELOFNVH GL GSVRI XLOOVXGRLMH, KILWFXRMT GSV
WLXFNVMGH LM XWILN DLFOW ORPVOB LKVM Z TIVZGOB VCKZMWVW ZFWRVMXV ULI GSV
KZKVIH.  GDLSRT HGIVHHVW, SLDVEVI, GSZG WVEVOLKNVMG LU GSV ULFMWRMT
UZGSVIH XWILN RH HGROO RM RGH RMUZMXB.  HVIRLFH HLUGDZIV KILYOVNH IVNZRM
GL YV IVHLOEVW YVULIV GSV NZGVIRZO XZM YV KFG RMGL IVZWZYOV ULIN.

UFMWRMT UILN GSV KZXPZIW ULFMWZGRLM IVHFOGVW RM Z NZQLI KFHS GL
GIZMHXIRYV GSV 75,000 LI HL WLXFNVMGH LU GSV DZHSRMTGLM KZKVIH IVNZRMRMT
GL YV GIZMHXIRYVW LMGL XLNKFGVI WRHPH.  HORWVH ROOFHGIZGVW HVEVIZO LU GSV
KILYOVNH VMXLFMGVIVW, ULI VCZNKOV, GSV KIVHVMG RMZYRORGB LU XWILN GL
RMWRXZGV GSV XILHHLFGH WVOVGVW NZGVIRZO RM VRTSGVVMGS XVMGFIB
WLXFNVMGH.  GDLSRT MVCG WVHXIRYVW WLXFNVMGH UILN EZIRLFH KVIRLWH RM GSV
VRTSGVVMGS XVMGFIB GSZG SZEV YVVM GIZMHXIRYVW RM XSILMLOLTRXZO LIWVI ZMW
WVOREVIVW GL GSV KZXPZIW LUURXVH RM XZORULIMRZ, DSVIV GSVB ZIV XLMEVIGVW
GL GSV XWILN, Z KILXVHH GSZG RH VCKVXGVW GL XLMHFNV UREV BVZIH GL
