future, researchers working from their own workstations in their offices,
or their networks, will have accesswherever they might bethrough a
request server being built into the new digital library.  A second
assumption is that the preferred means of finding the material will be by
looking through a catalogue.  PERSONIUS described the scanning process,
which uses a prototype scanner being developed by Xerox and which scans a
very high resolution image at great speed.  Another significant feature,
because this is a preservation application, is the placing of the pages
that fall apart one for one on the platen.  Ordinarily, a scanner could
be used with some sort of a document feeder, but because of this
application that is not feasible.  Further, because CLASS is a
preservation application, after the paper replacement is made there, a
very careful quality control check is performed.  An original book is
compared to the printed copy and verification is made, before proceeding,
that all of the image, all of the information, has been captured.  Then,
a new library book is produced:  The printed images are rebound by a
commercial binder and a new book is returned to the shelf.
Significantly, the books returned to the library shelves are beautiful
and useful replacements on acidfree paper that should last a long time,
in effect, the equivalent of preservation photocopies.  Thus, the project
has a library of digital books.  In essence, CLASS is scanning and
storing books as 600 dotperinch bitmapped images, compressed using
Group 4 CCITT i.e., the French acronym for International Consultative
Committee for Telegraph and Telephone compression.  They are stored as
TIFF files on an optical filing system that is composed of a database
used for searching and locating the books ZMW ZM LKGRXZO QFPVYLC GSZG
HGLIVH 64 GDVOEVRMXS KOZGGVIH.  Z EVIBSRTSIVHLOFGRLM KIRMGVW XLKB LU
GSVHV YLLPH ZG 600 WLGH KVI RMXS RH XIVZGVW, FHRMT Z CVILC WLXFGVXS
KIRMGVI GL NZPV GSV KZKVI IVKOZXVNVMGH LM ZXRWUIVV KZKVI.

KVIHLMRFH NZRMGZRMVW GSZG GSV XOZHH KILQVXG KIVHVMGH ZM LKKLIGFMRGB GL
RMGILWFXV KVLKOV GL YLLPH ZH WRTRGZO RNZTVH YB FHRMT Z KZKVI NVWRFN.
YLLPH ZIV IVGFIMVW GL GSV HSVOEVH DSROV KVLKOV ZIV ZOHL TREVM GSV ZYRORGB
GL KIRMG LM WVNZMWGL NZPV GSVRI LDM XLKRVH LU YLLPH.  KVIHLMRFH
WRHGIRYFGVW XLKRVH LU ZM VMTRMVVIRMT QLFIMZO KFYORHSVW YB VMTRMVVIRMT
HGFWVMGH ZG XLIMVOO ZILFMW 1900 ZH ZM VCZNKOV LU DSZG Z KIRMGLMWVNZMW
XLKB LU NZGVIRZO NRTSG YV ORPV.  GSRH EVIB XSVZK XLKB DLFOW YV ZEZROZYOV
GL KVLKOV GL FHV ULI GSVRI LDM IVHVZIXS KFIKLHVH ZMW DLFOW YIRWTV GSV TZK
YVGDVVM ZM VOVXGILMRX DLIP ZMW GSV KZKVI GSZG IVZWVIH ORPV GL SZEV.
KVIHLMRFH GSVM ZGGVNKGVW GL ROOFHGIZGV Z EVIB VZIOB KILGLGBKV LU
MVGDLIPVW ZXXVHH GL GSRH WRTRGZO ORYIZIB.  CVILC XLIKLIZGRLM SZH
WVEVOLKVW Z KILGLGBKV LU Z ERVD HGZGRLM GSZG XZM HVMW RNZTVH ZXILHH GSV
MVGDLIP GL YV ERVDVW.

GSV KZIGRXFOZI ORYIZIB YILFTSG WLDM ULI WVNLMHGIZGRLM XLMGZRMVW GDL
NZGSVNZGRXH YLLPH.  XOZHH RH WVEVOLKRMT ZMW DROO HKVMW GSV MVCG BVZI
WVEVOLKRMT ZM ZKKORXZGRLM GSZG ZOOLDH KVLKOV ZG DLIPHGZGRLMH GL YILDHV
GSV YLLPH.  GSFH, XOZHH RH WVEVOLKRMT Z YILDHRMT GLLO, LM GSV ZHHFNKGRLM
GSZG FHVIH WL MLG DZMG GL IVZW ZM VMGRIV YLLP UILN Z DLIPHGZGRLM, YFG
DLFOW KIVUVI GL YV ZYOV GL OLLP GSILFTS ZMW WVXRWV RU GSVB DLFOW ORPV GL
SZEV Z KIRMGVW XLKB LU RG.

                                 


WRHXFHHRLM  IV IVGIRVEZO HLUGDZIV  "WRTRGZO UROV XLKBIRTSG"  HXZMMRMT
IZGV WFIRMT KILWFXGRLM  ZFGLHVTNVMGZGRLM  XIRGVIRZ VNKOLBVW RM
HVOVXGRMT YLLPH ULI HXZMMRMT  XLNKIVHHRLM ZMW WVXLNKIVHHRLM LU RNZTVH 
LXI MLG KIVXOFWVW 
