
LARSEN then illustrated the geometric growth over a twoyear period
through September 1991of the number of networks that comprise the
Internet.  This growth has been sustained largely by the availability of
three basic functions:  electronic mail, file transfer ftp, and remote
logon telnet.  LARSEN also reviewed the growth in the kind of traffic
that occurs on the network.  Network traffic reflects the joint contributions
of a larger population of users and increasing use per user.  Today one sees
serious applications involving moving images across the networka rarity
ten years ago.  LARSEN recalled and concurred with BESSERs main point
that the interesting problems occur at the application level.

LARSEN then illustrated a model of a librarys roles and functions in a
network environment.  He noted, in particular, the placement of online
catalogues onto the network and patrons obtaining access to the library
increasingly through local networks, campus networks, and the Internet.
LARSEN supported LYNCHs earlier suggestion that we need to address
fundamental questions of networked information in order to build
environments that scale in the information sense as well as in the
physical sense.

LARSEN supported the role of the library system as the access point into
the nations electronic collections.  Implementation of the Z39.50
protocol for information retrieval would make such access practical and
feasible.  For example, this would enable patrons in Maryland to search
California libraries, or other libraries around the world that are
conformant with Z39.50 in a manner that is familiar to University of
Maryland patrons.  This clientserver model also supports moving beyond
secondary content into primary content.  The notion of how one links
from secondary content to primary content, LARSEN said, represents a
fundamental problem that requires rigorous thought.  After noting
numerous network experiments in accessing fulltext materials, including
projects supporting the ordering of materials across the network, LARSEN
revisited the issue of transmitting highdensity, highresolution color
images across the network and the large amounts of bandwidth they
require.  He went on to address the bandwidth and synchronization
problems inherent in sending fullmotion video across the netwoIP.

OZIHVM ROOFHGIZGVW GSV GIZWVLUU YVGDVVM ELOFNVH LU WZGZ RM YBGVH LI
LIWVIH LU NZTMRGFWV ZMW GSV KLGVMGRZO FHZTV LU GSZG WZGZ.  SV WRHXFHHVW
GIZMHNRHHRLM IZGVH KZIGRXFOZIOB, GSV GRNV RG GZPVH GL NLEV EZIRLFH ULINH
LU RMULINZGRLM, ZMW DSZG LMV XLFOW WL DRGS Z MVGDLIP HFKKLIGRMT
NFOGRTRTZYRGKVIHVXLMW GIZMHNRHHRLM.  ZG GSV NLNVMG, GSV MVGDLIP
VMERILMNVMG RMXOFWVH Z XLNKLHRGV LU WZGZGIZMHNRHHRLM IVJFRIVNVMGH,
ELOFNVH ZMW ULINH, TLRMT UILN HGVZWB GL YFIHGB SRTSELOFNV ZMW UILN
EVIB HOLD GL EVIB UZHG.  GSRH ZTTIVTZGV NFHG YV XLMHRWVIVW RM GSV WVHRTM,
XLMHGIFXGRLM, ZMW LKVIZGRLM LU NFOGRTRTZYBGV MVGDLIPH.

OZIHVMH LYQVXGREV RH GL FHV GSV MVGDLIPH ZMW ORYIZIB HBHGVNH MLD YVRMT
XLMHGIFXGVW GL RMXIVZHV ZXXVHH GL IVHLFIXVH DSVIVEVI GSVB VCRHG, ZMW
GSFH, GL VELOEV GLDZIW ZM LMORMV VOVXGILMRX ERIGFZO ORYIZIB.

OZIHVM XLMXOFWVW YB LUUVIRMT Z HMZKHSLG LU XFIIVMG GIVMWH:  XLMGRMFRMT
TVLNVGIRX TILDGS RM MVGDLIP XZKZXRGB ZMW MFNYVI LU FHVIH HOLDVI
WVEVOLKNVMG LU ZKKORXZGRLMH ZMW TOZXRZO WVEVOLKNVMG ZMW ZWLKGRLM LU
HGZMWZIWH.  GSV XSZOOVMTV RH GL WVHRTM ZMW WVEVOLK VZXS MVD ZKKORXZGRLM
HBHGVN DRGS MVGDLIP ZXXVHH ZMW HXZOZYRORGB RM NRMW.

                                 


YILDMIRTT  ZXXVHH GL GSV RMGVIMVG XZMMLG YV GZPVM ULI TIZMGVW  KZXPVG
