

Anne KENNEY, associate director, Department of Preservation and
Conservation, Cornell University, opened her talk by observing that the
Cornell Xerox Project CXP has been guided by the assumption that the
ability to produce printed facsimiles or to replace paper with paper
would be important, at least for the present generation of users and
equipment.  She described three factors that influenced development of
the project:  1 Because the project has emphasized the preservation of
deteriorating brittle books, the quality of what was produced had to be
sufficiently high to return a paper replacement to the shelf.  CXP was
only interested in using:  2 a system that was costeffective, which
meant that it had to be costcompetitive with the processes currently
available, principally photocopy and microfilm, and 3 new or currently
available product hardware and software.

KENNEY described the advantages that using digital technology offers over
both photocopy and microfilm:  1 The potential exists to create a higher
quality reproduction of a deteriorating original than conventional
lightlens technology.  2 Because a digital image is an encoded
representation, it can be reproduced again and again with no resulting
loss of quality, as opposed to the situation with lightlens processes,
in which there is discernible difference between a second and a
subsequent generation of an image.  3 A digital image can be manipulated
in a number of ways to improve image capture for example, Xerox has
developed a windowing application that enables one to capture a page
containing both text and illustrations in a manner that optimizes the
reproduction of both.  With lightlens technology, one must choose which
to optimize, text or the illustration in preservation microfilming, the
current practice is to shoot an illustrated page twice, once to highlight
the text and the second time to provide the best capture for the
illustration.  4 A digital image can also be edited, density levels
adjusted to remove underlining and stains, and to increase legibility for
faint documents.  5 Onscreen inspection can take place at the time of
initial setup and adjustments made prior to scanning, factors that
substantially reduce the number of retakes required in quality control.

A primary goal of CXP has been to evaluate the paper output printed on
the Xerox DocuTech, a highspeed printer that produces 600dpi pages from
scanned images at a rate of 135 pages a minute.  KENNEY recounted several
publishing challenges to represent faithful ZMW OVTRYOV IVKILWFXGRLMH LU
GSV LIRTRMZOH GSZG GSV 600WKR XLKB ULI GSV NLHG KZIG HFXXVHHUFOOB
XZKGFIVW.  ULI VCZNKOV, NZMB LU GSV WVGVIRLIZGRMT ELOFNVH RM GSV KILQVXG
DVIV SVZEROB ROOFHGIZGVW DRGS URMV ORMV WIZDRMTH LI SZOUGLMVH LI XZNV RM
OZMTFZTVH HFXS ZH QZKZMVHV, RM DSRXS GSV YFROWFK LU XSZIZXGVIH XLNKIRHVW
LU EZIBRMT HGILPVH RH WRUURXFOG GL IVKILWFXV ZG OLDVI IVHLOFGRLMH Z
HFIKIRHRMT MFNYVI LU GSVN XZNV DRGS ZMMLGZGRLMH ZMW NZGSVNZGRXZO
ULINFOZH, DSRXS RG DZH XIRGRXZO GL YV ZYOV GL WFKORXZGV VCZXGOB.

PVMMVB MLGVW GSZG 1 GSV XLKRVH ZIV YVRMT KIRMGVW LM KZKVI GSZG NVVGH GSV
ZMHR HGZMWZIWH ULI KVIULINZMXV, 2 GSV WLXFGVXS KIRMGVI NVVGH GSV NZXSRMV
ZMW GLMVI IVJFRIVNVMGH ULI KILKVI ZWSVHRLM LU KIRMG GL KZTV, ZH WVHXIRYVW
YB GSV MZGRLMZO ZIXSREVH, ZMW GSFH 3 KZKVI KILWFXG RH XLMHRWVIVW GL YV
GSV ZIXSREZO VJFREZOVMG LU KIVHVIEZGRLM KSLGLXLKB.

PVMMVB GSVM WRHXFHHVW HVEVIZO HZNKOVH LU GSV JFZORGB ZXSRVEVW RM GSV
KILQVXG GSZG SZW YVVM WRHGIRYFGVW RM Z SZMWLFG, ULI VCZNKOV, Z XLKB LU Z
KIRMGLMWVNZMW EVIHRLM LU GSV 1911 IVVW OVXGFIV LM GSV HGVZN GFIYRMV,
DSRXS XLMGZRMH SZOUGLMVH, ORMV WIZDRMTH, ZMW ROOFHGIZGRLMH VNYVWWVW RM
GVCG GSV URIHG ULFI OLLHV KZTVH RM GSV ELOFNV XLNKZIVW GSV XZKGFIV
XZKZYRORGRVH LU HXZMMRMT GL KSLGLXLKB ULI Z HGZMWZIW GVHG GZITVG, GSV
RVVV HGZMWZIW 167Z 1987 GVHG XSZIG.  RM ZOO RMHGZMXVH HXZMMRMT KILEVW
HFKVIRLI GL KSLGLXLKB, GSLFTS LMOB HORTSGOB NLIV HL RM LMV.

XLMXVWRMT GSV HRNKORHGRX MZGFIV LU SVI IVERVD LU GSV JFZORGB LU HXZMMRMT
GL KSLGLXLKB, PVMMVB WVHXIRYVW RG ZH LMV IVKIVHVMGZGRLM LU GSV PRMWH LU
HVGGRMTH GSZG XLFOW YV FHVW DRGS HXZMMRMT XZKZYRORGRVH LM GSV VJFRKNVMG
XCK FHVH.  PVMMVB ZOHL KLRMGVW LFG GSZG XCK RMEVHGRTZGVW GSV JFZORGB
