transition period, greater flexibility concerning how concepts such as
backup copies and archival copies in the CXP are defined is necessary,
or the opportunity to move forward will be lost.

In terms of cooperation, particularly in the university setting, BATTIN
also argued the need to avoid going off in a hundred different
directions.  The CPA has catalyzed a small group of universities called
the La Guardia Eightbecause La Guardia Airport is where meetings take
placeHarvard, Yale, Cornell, Princeton, Penn State, Tennessee,
Stanford, and USC, to develop a digital preservation consortium to look
at all these issues and develop de facto standards as we move along,
instead of waiting for something that is officially blessed.  Continuing
to apply analog values and definitions of standards to the digital
environment, BATTIN said, will effectively lead to forfeiture of the
benefits of digital technology to research and scholarship.

Under the second rubric, the politics of reproduction, BATTIN reiterated
an oftmade argument concerning the electronic library, namely, that it
is more difficult to transform than to create, and nowhere is that belief
expressed more dramatically than in the conversion of brittle books to
new media.  Preserving information published in electronic media involves
making sure the information remains accessible and that digital
information is not lost through reproduction.  In the analog world of
photocopies and microfilm, the issue of fidelity to the original becomes
paramount, as do issues of "Whose fidelity?" and "Whose original?"

BATTIN elaborated these arguments with a few examples from a recent study
conducted by the CPA on the problems of preserving text and image.
Discussions with scholars, librarians, and curators in a variety of
disciplines dependent on text and image generated a variety of concerns,
for example:  1 Copy what is, not what the technology is capable of.
This is very important for the history of ideas.  Scholars wish to know
what the author saw and worked from.  And make availabOV ZG GSV
DLIPHGZGRLM GSV LKKLIGFMRGB GL VIZHV ZOO GSV WVUVXGH ZMW VMSZMXV GSV
KIVHVMGZGRLM.  2 GSV URWVORGB LU IVKILWFXGRLMDSZG RH TLLW VMLFTS, DSZG
XZM DV ZUULIW, ZMW GSV WRUUVIVMXV RG NZPVHRHHFVH LU HFYQVXGREV EVIHFH
LYQVXGREV IVHLOFGRLM.  3 GSV WRUUVIVMXVH YVGDVVM KIRNZIB ZMW HVXLMWZIB
FHVIH.  IVHGIRXGRMT GSV WVURMRGRLM LU KIRNZIB FHVI GL GSV LMV RM DSLHV
WRHXRKORMV GSV NZGVIRZO SZH YVVM KFYORHSVW IFMH LMV SVZWOLMT RMGL GSV
IVZORGB GSZG GSVHV KIRMGVW YLLPH SZEV SZW Z SLHG LU LGSVI FHVIH UILN Z
SLHG LU LGSVI WRHXRKORMVH, DSL MLG LMOB DVIV OLLPRMT ULI EVIB WRUUVIVMG
GSRMTH, YFG DSL ZOHL HSZIVW EZOFVH EVIB WRUUVIVMG UILN GSLHV LU GSV
KIRNZIB FHVI.  4 GSV IVOZGRLMHSRK LU GSV HGZMWZIW LU IVKILWFXGRLM GL MVD
XZKZYRORGRVH LU HXSLOZIHSRKGSV YILDHRMT HGZMWZIW EVIHFH ZM ZIXSREZO
HGZMWZIW.  SLD TLLW NFHG GSV ZIXSREZO HGZMWZIW YV?  XZM Z WRHGRMXGRLM YV
WIZDM YVGDVVM KLGVMGRZO FHVIH RM HVGGRMT HGZMWZIWH ULI IVKILWFXGRLM?
ZIXSREZO HGLIZTV, FHV XLKRVH, YILDHRMT XLKRVHLFTSG ZM ZGGVNKG GL HVG
HGZMWZIWH VEVM YV NZWV?  5 URMZOOB, XLHGH.  SLD NFXS ZIV DV KIVKZIVW GL
KZB GL XZKGFIV ZYHLOFGV URWVORGB?  DSZG ZIV GSV GIZWVLUUH YVGDVVM EZHGOB
VMSZMXVW ZXXVHH, WVTIVVH LU URWVORGB, ZMW XLHGH?

GSVHV HGZMWZIWH, YZGGRM XLMXOFWVW, HVIEV GL XLNKORXZGV UFIGSVI GSV
IVKILWFXGRLM KILXVHH, ZMW ZWW GL GSV OLMT ORHG LU GVXSMRXZO HGZMWZIWH
GSZG ZIV MVXVHHZIB GL VMHFIV DRWVHKIVZW ZXXVHH.  DZBH GL ZIGRXFOZGV ZMW
ZMZOBAV GSV XLHGH GSZG ZIV ZGGZXSVW GL GSV WRUUVIVMG OVEVOH LU HGZMWZIWH
NFHG YV ULFMW.

TREVM GSV XSZLH XLMXVIMRMT HGZMWZIWH, DSRXS KILNRHVH GL ORMTVI ULI GSV
ULIVHVVZYOV UFGFIV, YZGGRM FITVW ZWLKGRLM LU GSV ULOOLDRMT TVMVIZO
KIRMXRKOVH:

      HGIREV GL FMWVIHGZMW GSV XSZMTRMT RMULINZGRLM IVJFRIVNVMGH LU
     HXSLOZIOB WRHXRKORMVH ZH NLIV ZMW NLIV GVXSMLOLTB RH RMGVTIZGVW RMGL
     GSV KILXVHH LU IVHVZIXS ZMW HXSLOZIOB XLNNFMRXZGRLM RM LIWVI GL NVVG
     UFGFIV HXSLOZIOB MVVWH, MLG GL YFROW ULI GSV KZHG.  XZKGFIV
     WVGVIRLIZGRMT RMULINZGRLM ZG GSV SRTSVHG ZUULIWZYOV IVHLOFGRLM, VEVM
     GSLFTS GSV WRHHVNRMZGRLM ZMW WRHKOZB GVXSMLOLTRVH DROO OZT.
