whether or not particular topics appeared.  The errors, however, were
quite different.  The students with paper rarely said that something
appeared when it had not.  But they often failed to find something
actually mentioned in the issue.  The computer people found numerous
things, but they also frequently said that a topic was mentioned when it
was not.  The reason, of course, was that they were performing word
searches.  They were finding that words were mentioned and they were
concluding that they had accomplished their task.

This question also contained a trick to test the issue of serendipity.
The students were given another list of eight topics and instructed,
without taking a second look at the journal, to recall how many of this
new list of eight topics were in this particular issue.  This was an
attempt to see if they performed better at remembering what they were not
looking for.  They all performed about the same, paper or electronics,
about 62 percent accurate.  In short, LESK said, people were not very
good when it came to serendipity, but they were no worse at it with
computers than they were with paper.

LESK gave a parenthetical illustration of the learning curve of students
who used SuperBook.

The students using the electronic systems started off worse than the ones
using print, but by the third of the three sessions in the series had
caught up to print.  As one might expect, electronics provide a much
better means of finding what one wants to read reading speeds, once the
object of the search has been found, are about the same.

Almost none of the students could perform the hard taskthe analogous
transformation.  It would require the expertise of organic chemists to
complete.  But an interesting result was that the students using the text
search performed terribly, while those using the image system did best.
That the text search system is driven by text offers the explanation.
Everything is focused on the text to see the pictures, one must press
on an icon.  Many students found the right article containing the answer
to the question, but they did not click on the icon to bring up the right
figure and see it.  They did not know that they had found the right place,
and thus got it wrong.

The short answeI WVNLMHGIZGVW YB GSRH VCKVIRNVMG DZH GSZG RM GSV VEVMG
LMV WLVH MLG PMLD DSZG GL IVZW, LMV MVVWH GSV VOVXGILMRX HBHGVNH GSV
VOVXGILMRX HBHGVNH SLOW ML ZWEZMGZTV ZG GSV NLNVMG RU LMV PMLDH DSZG GL
IVZW, YFG MVRGSVI WL GSVB RNKLHV Z KVMZOGB.

OVHP XLMXOFWVW YB XLNNVMGRMT GSZG, LM LMV SZMW, GSV RNZTV HBHGVN DZH VZHB
GL FHV.  LM GSV LGSVI SZMW, GSV GVCG WRHKOZB HBHGVN, DSRXS IVKIVHVMGVW
GDVMGB NZMBVZIH LU DLIP RM KILTIZNNRMT ZMW KLORHSRMT, DZH MLG DRMMRMT,
YVXZFHV GSV GVCG DZH MLG YVRMT IVZW, QFHG HVZIXSVW.  GSV NFXS VZHRVI
HBHGVN RH SRTSOB XLNKVGRGREV ZH DVOO ZH IVNZIPZYOB VUUVXGREV ULI GSV
ZXGFZO XSVNRHGH.

                                 


VIDZB  NLHG XSZOOVMTRMT ZHKVXG LU DLIPRMT LM ZN  ZHHFNKGRLMH TFRWRMT
ZNH ZKKILZXS  GVHGRMT WRUUVIVMG GBKVH LU HVIERXV YFIVZFH  ZNH
IVJFRIVNVMG ULI 99.95 KVIXVMG ZXXFIZXB  IVJFRIVNVMGH ULI GVCGXLWRMT 
ZWWRGRLMZO UZXGLIH RMUOFVMXRMT ZNH ZKKILZXS GL XLWRMT  IVHFOGH LU ZNH
VCKVIRVMXV DRGS IVPVBRMT  LGSVI KILYOVNH RM WVZORMT DRGS HVIERXV YFIVZFH
 JFZORGB XLMGILO GSV NLHG GRNVXLMHFNRMT ZHKVXG LU XLMGIZXGRMT LFG
XLMEVIHRLM  OLMTGVIN LFGOLLP FMXVIGZRM 


GL IRXPB VIDZB, ZHHLXRZGV XLLIWRMZGLI, ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB, ORYIZIB LU
XLMTIVHH, GSV XLMHGZMG EZIRVGB LU XLMEVIHRLM KILQVXGH GZPRMT KOZXV
HRNFOGZMVLFHOB IVKIVHVMGVW KVISZKH GSV NLHG XSZOOVMTRMT ZHKVXG LU DLIPRMT
LM ZN.  GSFH, GSV XSZOOVMTV DZH MLG GL URMW Z HLOFGRLM ULI GVCG
XLMEVIHRLM YFG Z GLLO PRG LU HLOFGRLMH GL ZKKOB GL OXH EZIRVW
XLOOVXGRLMH GSZG MVVW GL YV XLMEVIGVW.  VIDZB ORNRGVW SVI IVNZIPH GL GSV
