enjoyed a happy experience with Federal Prison Industries, which
precluded the necessity of going through the requestforproposal process
to award a contract, because it is another government agency.  The
prisoners performed AMs rekeying just as well as other service bureaus
and proved handy as well.  AM shipped them the books, which they would
photocopy on a bookedge scanner.  They would perform the markup on
photocopies, return the books as soon as they were done with them,
perform the keying, and return the material to AM on WORM disks.

ZIDAR detailed the elements that constitute the previously noted cost of
approximately 7 per page.  Most significant is the editing, correction
of errors, and spellcheckings, which though they may sound easy to
perform require, in fact, a great deal of time.  Reformatting text also
takes a while, but a significant amount of NALs expenses are for equipment,
which was extremely expensive when purchased because it was one of the few
systems on the market.  The costs of equipment are being amortized over
five years but are still quite high, nearly 2,000 per month.

HOCKEY raised a general question concerning OCR and the amount of editing
required substantial in her experience to generate the kind of
structured markup necessary for manipulating the text on the computer or
loading it into any retrieval system.  She wondered if the speakers could
extend the previous question about the costbenefit of adding or exerting
structured markup.  ERWAY noted that several OCR systems retain italics,
bolding, and other spatial formatting.  While the material may not be in
the format desired, these systems possess the ability to remove the
original materials quickly from the hands of the people performing the
conversion, as well as to retain that information so that users can work
with it.  HOCKEY rejoined that the current thinking on markup is that one
should not say that something is italic or bold so much as why it is that
way.  To be sure, one needs to know that something was italicized, but
how can one get from one to the other?  One can map from the structure to
the typographic representation.

FLEISCHHAUER suggested that, given the 100 million items the Library
holds, it may not be possible for LC to do more than report that a GSRMT
DZH RM RGZORXH ZH LKKLHVW GL DSB RG DZH RGZORXH, ZOGSLFTS GSZG NZB YV
WVHRIZYOV RM HLNV XLMGVCGH.  KILNRHRMT GL GZOP Z YRG WFIRMT GSV ZUGVIMLLM
HVHHRLM ZYLFG HVEVIZO VCKVIRNVMGH LXOX KVIULINVW LM ZFGLNZGRX IVXLTMRGRLM
LU WLXFNVMG VOVNVMGH, ZMW DSRXS GSVB SLKVW GL VCGVMW, DVRYVO HZRW GSZG RM
UZXG LMV XZM IVXLTMRAV GSV NZQLI VOVNVMGH LU Z WLXFNVMG DRGS Z UZRIOB
SRTS WVTIVV LU IVORZYRORGB, ZG OVZHG ZH TLLW ZH LXI.  HGVEVMH WIVD Z
FHVUFO WRHGRMXGRLM YVGDVVM HGZMWZIW, TVMVIZORAVW NZIPFK R.V., WVURMRMT
ULI Z WLXFNVMGGBKV WVURMRGRLM GSV HGIFXGFIV LU GSV WLXFNVMG, ZMW DSZG
SV GVINVW Z HGBOV HSVVG, DSRXS SZW GL WL DRGS RGZORXH, YLOWRMT, ZMW LGSVI
ULINH LU VNKSZHRH.  GSFH, GDL WRUUVIVMG XLNKLMVMGH ZIV ZG DLIP, LMV YVRMT
GSV HGIFXGFIV LU GSV WLXFNVMG RGHVOU RGH OLTRX, ZMW GSV LGSVI YVRMT RGH
IVKIVHVMGZGRLM DSVM RG RH KFG LM GSV HXIVVM LI KIRMGVW.

                                 

HVHHRLM E.  ZKKILZXSVH GL KIVKZIRMT VOVXGILMRX GVCGH


SLXPVB  GVCG RM ZHXRR ZMW GSV IVKIVHVMGZGRLM LU VOVXGILMRX GVCG EVIHFH
ZM RNZTV  GSV MVVW GL OLLP ZG DZBH LU FHRMT NZIPFK GL ZHHRHG IVGIRVEZO 
GSV MVVW ULI ZM VMXLWRMT ULINZG GSZG DROO YV IVFHZYOV ZMW NFOGRUFMXGRLMZO


HFHZM SLXPVB, WRIVXGLI, XVMGVI ULI VOVXGILMRX GVCGH RM GSV SFNZMRGRVH
XVGS, IFGTVIH ZMW KIRMXVGLM FMREVIHRGRVH, ZMMLFMXVW GSZG LMV GZOP
DVRYVOH DZH NLEVW RMGL GSRH HVHHRLM UILN GSV NLIMRMT ZMW GSZG WZERW
KZXPZIW DZH FMZYOV GL ZGGVMW.  GSV HVHHRLM DLFOW ZGGVNKG GL ULXFH NLIV LM
DSZG LMV XZM WL DRGS Z GVCG RM ZHXRR ZMW GSV IVKIVHVMGZGRLM LU VOVXGILMRX
GVCG IZGSVI GSZM QFHG ZM RNZTV, DSZG LMV XZM WL DRGS Z XLNKFGVI GSZG
XZMMLG YV WLMV DRGS Z YLLP LI ZM RNZTV.  RG DLFOW YV ZITFVW GSZG LMV XZM
WL NFXS NLIV GSZM QFHG IVZW Z GVCG, ZMW UILN GSZG HGZIGRMT KLRMG LMV XZM
FHV NZIPFK ZMW NVGSLWH LU KIVKZIRMT GSV GVCG GL GZPV UFOO ZWEZMGZTV LU
GSV XZKZYRORGB LU GSV XLNKFGVI.  GSZG DLFOW OVZW GL Z WRHXFHHRLM LU DSZG
