Jan Comeniuss bilingual Introduction to Latin.

SPERBERGMcQUEEN returned at length to the issue of images as simulacra
for the text, in order to reiterate his belief that in the long run more
than images of pages of particular editions of the text are needed,
because just as secondgeneration photocopies and secondgeneration
microfilm degenerate, so secondgeneration representations tend to
degenerate, and one tends to overstress some relatively trivial aspects
of the text such as its layout on the page, which is not always
significant, despite what the text critics might say, and slight other
pieces of information such as the very important lexical ties between the
English and Latin versions of Comeniuss bilingual text, for example.
Moreover, in many crucial respects it is easy to fool oneself concerning
what a scanned image of the text will accomplish.  For example, in order
to study the transmission of texts, information concerning the text
carrier is necessary, which scanned images simply do not always handle.
Further, even the highquality materials being produced at Cornell use
much of the information that one would need if studying those books as
physical objects.  It is a choice that has been made.  It is an arguably
justifiable choice, but one does not know what color those pen strokes in
the margin are or whether there was a stain on the page, because it has
been filtered out.  One does not know whether there were rips in the page
because they do not show up, and on a couple of the marginal marks one
loses half of the mark because the pen is very light and the scanner
failed to pick it up, and so what is clearly a checkmark in the margin of
the original becomes a little scoop in the margin of the facsimile.
Standard problems for facsimile editions, not new to electronics, but
also true of lightlens photography, and are remarked here because it is
importaMG GSZG DV MLG ULLO LFIHVOEVH GSZG VEVM RU DV KILWFXV Z EVIB MRXV
RNZTV LU GSRH KZTV DRGS TLLW XLMGIZHG, DV ZIV MLG IVKOZXRMT GSV
NZMFHXIRKG ZMB NLIV GSZM NRXILURON SZH IVKOZXVW GSV NZMFHXIRKG.

GSV GVR XLNVH UILN GSV IVHVZIXS XLNNFMRGB, DSVIV RGH URIHG ZOOVTRZMXV
ORVH, YFG RG RH MLG QFHG ZM ZXZWVNRX VCVIXRHV.  RG SZH IVOVEZMXV UZI
YVBLMW GSLHV DSL HKVMW ZOO LU GSVRI GRNV HGFWBRMT GVCG, YVXZFHV LMVH
NLWVO LU GVCG WVGVINRMVH DSZG LMVH HLUGDZIV XZM WL DRGS Z GVCG.  TLLW
NLWVOH OVZW GL TLLW HLUGDZIV.  YZW NLWVOH OVZW GL YZW HLUGDZIV.  GSZG SZH
VXLMLNRX XLMHVJFVMXVH, ZMW RG RH GSVHV VXLMLNRX XLMHVJFVMXVH GSZG SZEV
OVW GSV VFILKVZM XLNNFMRGB GL SVOK HFKKLIG GSV GVR, ZMW GSZG DROO OVZW,
HKVIYVITNXJFVVM SLKVW, HLNV HLUGDZIV EVMWLIH GL IVZORAV GSZG RU GSVB
KILERWV HLUGDZIV DRGS Z YVGGVI NLWVO LU GSV GVCG GSVB XZM NZPV Z PROORMT.

                                 


WRHXFHHRLM  RNKORXZGRLMH LU WRUUVIVMG WGWH ZMW GZT HVGH  LWZ EVIHFH HTNO 


WFIRMT GSV WRHXFHHRLM GSZG ULOOLDVW, HVEVIZO ZWWRGRLMZO KLRMGH DVIV NZWV.
MVRGSVI ZZK R.V., ZHHLXRZGRLM LU ZNVIRXZM KFYORHSVIH MLI XZOH R.V.,
XLNKFGVIZRWVW ZXJFRHRGRLM ZMW OLTRHGRXH HFKKLIG SZH Z WLXFNVMGGBKV
WVURMRGRLM ULI ZMXRVMG TIVVP WIZNZ, ZOGSLFTS GSV GVR DROO YV ZYOV GL
SZMWOV GSZG.  TREVM GSRH HGZGV LU ZUUZRIH ZMW ZHHFNRMT GSZG GSV
GVXSMRXZOQLFIMZO KILWFXVIH ZMW GSV XLNNVIXRZO EVMWLIH WVXRWV GL FHV GSV
LGSVI GDL GBKVH, GSVM ZM RMHGRGFGRLM ORPV GSV ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH, DSRXS
NRTSG IVXVREV ZOO LU GSVRI KFYORXZGRLMH, DLFOW SZEV GL YV ZYOV GL SZMWOV
GSIVV WRUUVIVMG GBKVH LU WLXFNVMG WVURMRGRLMH ZMW GZT HVGH ZMW YV ZYOV GL
WRHGRMTFRHS ZNLMT GSVN.

LUURXV WLXFNVMG ZIXSRGVXGFIV LWZ SZH HLNV ZWEZMGZTVH GSZG UOLD UILN RGH
GRTSG ULXFH LM LUURXV WLXFNVMGH ZMW XOVZI WRIVXGRLMH ULI RNKOVNVMGZGRLM.
NFXS LU GSV LWZ HGZMWZIW RH VZHRVI GL IVZW ZMW XOVZIVI ZG URIHG IVZWRMT
GSZM GSV HTNO HGZMWZIW, DSRXS RH VCGIVNVOB TVMVIZO.  DSZG GSZG NVZMH RH
