future, when many more texts are available for online searching, real
problems in finding what is wanted will develop, if one is faced with
millions of words of data.  It therefore becomes important to consider
putting markup in texts to help searchers home in on the actual things
they wish to retrieve.  Various approaches to refining retrieval methods
toward this end include building on a computer version of a dictionary
and letting the computer look up words in it to obtain more information
about the semantic structure or semantic field of a word, its grammatical
structure, and syntactic structure.

HOCKEY commented on the present keen interest in the encoding world
in creating:  1 machinereadable versions of dictionaries that can be
initially tagged in SGML, which gives a structure to the dictionary entry
these entries can then be converted into a more rigid or otherwise
different database structure inside the computer, which can be treated as
a dynamic tool for searching mechanisms 2 large bodies of text to study
the language.  In order to incorporate more sophisticated mechanisms,
more about how words behave needs to be known, which can be learned in
part from information in dictionaries.  However, the last ten years have
seen much interest in studying the structure of printed dictionaries
converted into computerreadable form.  The information one derives about
many words from those is only partial, one or two definitions of the
common or the usual meaning of a word, and then numerous definitions of
unusual usages.  If the computer is using a dictionary to help retrieve
words in a text, it needs much more information about the common usages,
because those are the ones that occur over and over again.  Hence the
current interest in developing large bodies of text in computerreadable
form in order to study the language.  Several projects are engaged in
compiling, for example, 100 million words. HOCKEY described one with
which she was associated briefly at Oxford University involving
compilation of 100 million words of British English:  about 10 percent of
that will contain detailed linguistic tagging encoded in SGML it will
have word class taggings, with words identified as nouns, verbs,
adjectives, or other parts of HKVVXS.  GSRH GZTTRMT XZM GSVM YV FHVW YB
KILTIZNH DSRXS DROO YVTRM GL OVZIM Z YRG NLIV ZYLFG GSV HGIFXGFIV LU GSV
OZMTFZTV, ZMW GSVM, XZM TL GL GZT NLIV GVCG.

SLXPVB HZRW GSZG GSV NLIV GSZG RH GZTTVW ZXXFIZGVOB, GSV NLIV LMV XZM
IVURMV GSV GZTTRMT KILXVHH ZMW GSFH GSV YRTTVI YLWB LU GVCG LMV XZM YFROW
FK DRGS ORMTFRHGRX GZTTRMT RMXLIKLIZGVW RMGL RG.  SVMXV, GSV NLIV GZTTRMT
LI ZMMLGZGRLM GSVIV RH RM GSV GVCG, GSV NLIV LMV NZB YVTRM GL OVZIM ZYLFG
OZMTFZTV ZMW GSV NLIV RG DROO SVOK ZXXLNKORHS NLIV RMGVOORTVMG LXI.  HSV
IVXLNNVMWVW GSV WVEVOLKNVMG LU HLUGDZIV GLLOH GSZG DROO SVOK LMV YVTRM GL
FMWVIHGZMW NLIV ZYLFG Z GVCG, DSRXS XZM GSVM YV ZKKORVW GL HXZMMRMT
RNZTVH LU GSZG GVCG RM GSZG ULINZG ZMW GL FHRMT NLIV RMGVOORTVMXV GL SVOK
LMV RMGVIKIVG LI FMWVIHGZMW GSV GVCG.

SLXPVB KLHRGVW GSV MVVW GL GSRMP ZYLFG XLNNLM NVGSLWH LU GVCGVMXLWRMT
ULI Z OLMT GRNV GL XLNV, YVXZFHV YFROWRMT GSVHV OZITV YLWRVH LU GVCG RH
VCGIVNVOB VCKVMHREV ZMW DROO LMOB YV WLMV LMXV.

RM GSV NLIV TVMVIZO WRHXFHHRLM LM ZKKILZXSVH GL VMXLWRMT GSZG ULOOLDVW,
GSVHV KLRMGH DVIV NZWV:

YVHHVI RWVMGRURVW GSV FMWVIOBRMT KILYOVN DRGS HGZMWZIWH GSZG ZOO SZEV GL
HGIFTTOV DRGS RM ZWLKGRMT Z HGZMWZIW, MZNVOB, GSV GVMHRLM YVGDVVM Z EVIB
SRTSOB WVURMVW HGZMWZIW GSZG RH EVIB RMGVIXSZMTVZYOV YFG WLVH MLG DLIP
ULI VEVIBLMV YVXZFHV HLNVGSRMT RH OZXPRMT, ZMW Z HGZMWZIW GSZG RH OVHH
WVURMVW, NLIV LKVM, NLIV ZWZKGZYOV, YFG OVHH RMGVIXSZMTVZYOV.  XLMGVMWRMT
GSZG GSV DZB RM DSRXS KVLKOV FHV HTNO RH MLG HFUURXRVMGOB WVURMVW, YVHHVI
DLMWVIVW 1 RU KVLKOV IVHRHG GSV GVR YVXZFHV GSVB GSRMP RG RH GLL WVURMVW
RM XVIGZRM GSRMTH GSVB WL MLG URG RMGL, ZMW 2 SLD KILTIVHH DRGS
RMGVIXSZMTVZYRORGB XZM YV NZWV DRGSLFG UIRTSGVMRMT KVLKOV ZDZB.

HKVIYVITNXJFVVM IVKORVW GSZG GSV KFYORHSVW WIZUGH LU GSV GVR SZW NVG
DRGS HFIKIRHRMTOB ORGGOV LYQVXGRLM LM GSV TILFMWH GSZG GSVB WL MLG ZOOLD
