public good and the desirability of incentives to promote it.  This state
of affairs, however, has created strains on the international level and
is the reason for several of the differences in the laws that we have.
Today the United States protects almost every kind of work that can be
called an expression of an author.  The standard for gaining copyright
protection is simply originality.  This is a low standard and means that
a work is not copied from something else, as well as shows a certain
minimal amount of authorship.  One can also acquire copyright protection
for making a new version of preexisting material, provided it manifests
some spark of creativity.

However, copyright does not protect ideas, methods, systemsonly the way
that one expresses those things.  Nor does copyright protect anything
that is mechanical, anything that does not involve choice, or criteria
concerning whether or not one should do a thing.  For example, the
results of a process called declicking, in which one mechanically removes
impure sounds from old recordings, are not copyrightable.  On the other
hand, the choice to record a song digitally and to increase the sound of
violins or to bring up the tympani constitutes the results of conversion
that are copyrightable.  Moreover, if a work is protected by copyright in
the United States, one generally needs the permission of the copyright
owner to convert it.  Normally, who will own the newthat is, converted
material is a matter of contract.  In the absence of a contract, the
person who creates the new material is the author and owner.  But people
do not generally think about the copyright implications until after the
fact.  PETERS stressed the need when dealing with copyrighted works to
think about copyright in advance.  Ones bargaining power is much greater
up front than it is down the road.

PETERS next discussed works not protected by copyright, for example, any
work done by a federal employee as part of his or her official duties is
in the public domain in the United States.  The issue is not wholly free
of doubt concerning whether or not the work is in the public domain
outside the United States.  Other materials in the public domain include:
any works published more than seventyfive years ago, and any work
published in the United States more than twentyeight years ago, whose
copyright was not renewed.  In talking about the new technology and
putting material in a digital form to send all over the world, PETERS
cautioned, one must keep in mind that while the rights may not be an
issue in the United States, they may be in different parts of the world,
where most countries previously employed a copyright term of the life of
the auGSLI KOFH URUGB BVZIH.

KVGVIH MVCG IVERVDVW GSV VXLMLNRXH LU XLKBIRTSG SLOWRMT.  HRNKOB,
VXLMLNRX IRTSGH ZIV GSV IRTSGH GL XLMGILO GSV IVKILWFXGRLM LU Z DLIP RM
ZMB ULIN.  GSVB YVOLMT GL GSV ZFGSLI, LI RM GSV XZHV LU Z DLIP NZWV ULI
SRIV, GSV VNKOLBVI.  GSV HVXLMW IRTSG, DSRXS RH XIRGRXZO GL XLMEVIHRLM,
RH GSV IRTSG GL XSZMTV Z DLIP.  GSV IRTSG GL NZPV MVD EVIHRLMH RH KVISZKH
LMV LU GSV NLHG HRTMRURXZMG IRTSGH LU ZFGSLIH, KZIGRXFOZIOB RM ZM
VOVXGILMRX DLIOW.  GSV GSRIW IRTSG RH GSV IRTSG GL KFYORHS GSV DLIP ZMW
GSV IRTSG GL WRHHVNRMZGV RG, HLNVGSRMT GSZG VEVIBLMV DSL WVZOH RM ZM
VOVXGILMRX NVWRFN MVVWH GL PMLD.  GSV YZHRX IFOV RH RU Z XLKB RH HLOW,
ZOO IRTSGH LU WRHGIRYFGRLM ZIV VCGRMTFRHSVW DRGS GSV HZOV LU GSZG XLKB.
GSV PVB RH GSZG RG NFHG YV HLOW.  Z MFNYVI LU XLNKZMRVH LEVIXLNV GSRH
LYHGZXOV YB OVZHRMT LI IVMGRMT GSVRI KILWFXG.  GSVHV XLNKZMRVH ZITFV GSZG
RU GSV NZGVIRZO RH IVMGVW LI OVZHVW ZMW MLG HLOW, GSVB XLMGILO GSV FHVH
LU Z DLIP.  GSV ULFIGS IRTSG, ZMW LMV EVIB RNKLIGZMG RM Z WRTRGZO DLIOW,
RH Z IRTSG LU KFYORX KVIULINZMXV, DSRXS NVZMH GSV IRTSG GL HSLD GSV DLIP
HVJFVMGRZOOB.  ULI VCZNKOV, XLKBIRTSG LDMVIH XLMGILO GSV HSLDRMT LU Z
