goes beyond Congress, BESSER suggested that it was incumbent on LC to
extend those responsibilities to all the things being published in
electronic form.  This would mean eventually accepting electronic
formats.  LC could require that at some point they be in a certain
limited set of formats, and then develop mechanisms for allowing people
to access those in the same way that other things are accessed.  This
does not imply that they are on the network and available to everyone.
LC does that with most of its bibliographic records, BESSER said, which
end up migrating to the utility e.g., OCLC or somewhere else.  But just
as most of LCs books are available in some form through interlibrary
loan or some other mechanism, so in the same way electronic formats ought
to be available to others in some format, though with some copyright
considerations.  BESSER was not suggesting that these mechanisms be
established tomorrow, only that they seemed to fall within LCs purview,
and that there should be longrange plans to establish them.

Acknowledging that those from LC in the room agreed with BESSER
concerning the need to confront difficult questions, GIFFORD underscored
the magnitude of the problem of what to keep and what to select.  GIFFORD
noted that LC currently receives some 31,000 items per day, not counting
electronic materials, and argued for much more distributed responsibility
in order to maintain and store electronic information.

BESSER responded that the assembled group could be viewed as a starting
point, whose initial operating premise could be helping to move in this
direction and defining how LC could do so, for example, in areas of
standardization or distribution of responsibility.

FLEISCHHAUER added that AM was fully engaged, wrestling with some of the
questions that pertain to the conversion of older historical materials,
which would be one thing that the Library of Congress might do.  Several
points mentioned by BESSER and several others on this question have a
much greater impact on those who are concerned with cataloguing and the
networking of bibliographic information, as well as preservation itself.

Speaking directly to AM, which he considered was a largely uncopyrighted
database, LYNCH urged development of a network version of AM, or
consideration of making the data in it available to people interested in
doing network multimedia.  On account of the current great shortage of
digital data that is both appealing and unencumbered by complex rights
problems, this course of action could have a significant effect on making
network multimedia a reality.

In this connection, FLEISCHHAUER reported on a fragmentary prototype in
LCs Office of Information Technology Services that attempts to associate
digital images of photographs with cataloguing information in ways that
work within a local area networka step, so to say, toward AMs
construction of some sort of apparatus for access.  Further, AM has
attempted to use standard data forms in oIWVI GL SVOK NZPV GSZG
WRHGRMXGRLM YVGDVVM GSV ZXXVHH GLLOH ZMW GSV FMWVIOBRMT WZGZ, ZMW GSFH
YVORVEVH GSZG GSV WZGZYZHV RH MVGDLIPZYOV.

Z WVORXZGV ZMW ZTLMRARMT KLORXB JFVHGRLM ULI OX, SLDVEVI, DSRXS XLNVH
YZXP GL IVHLFIXVH ZMW FMULIGFMZGVOB SZH ZM RNKZXG LM GSRH, RH GL URMW
HLNV ZKKILKIRZGV, SLMLIZYOV, ZMW OVTZO XLHGIVXLEVIB KLHHRYRORGRVH.  Z
XVIGZRM HPRGGRHSMVHH XLMXVIMRMT XLHGIVXLEVIB SZH NZWV KVLKOV FMHFIV
VCZXGOB DSZG GL WL.  ZN DLFOW YV SRTSOB IVXVKGREV GL WRHXFHHRMT UFIGSVI
OBMXSH LUUVI GL GVHG LI WVNLMHGIZGV RGH WZGZYZHV RM Z MVGDLIP
VMERILMNVMG, UOVRHXSSZFVI HZRW.

IVGFIMRMT GSV WRHXFHHRLM GL DSZG HSV ERVDVW ZH GSV ERGZO RHHFV LU
VOVXGILMRX WVKLHRG, YZGGRM IVXLNNVMWVW GSZG OX RMRGRZGV Z XZGZOBGRX
KILXVHH RM GVINH LU WRHGIRYFGVW IVHKLMHRYRORGB, GSZG RH, YIRMT GLTVGSVI
GSV WRHGIRYFGVW LITZMRAZGRLMH ZMW HVG FK Z HGFWB TILFK GL OLLP ZG ZOO
GSVHV RHHFVH ZMW HVV DSVIV DV ZH Z MZGRLM HSLFOW NLEV.  GSV YILZWVI
RHHFVH LU SLD DV WVZO DRGS GSV NZMZTVNVMG LU VOVXGILMRX RMULINZGRLM DROO
