collection.  Some participating sponsors are already developing projects
based on MemRIs recommended directions.

The Elibrary strategy projected in this plan is a visionary one that can
enable major changes and improvements in academic, public, and special
library service.  This vision is, though, one that can be realized with
todays technology.  At the same time, it will challenge the political
and social structure within which libraries operate:  in academic
libraries, the traditional emphasis on local collections, extending to
accreditation issues in public libraries, the potential of electronic
branch and central libraries fully available to the public and for
special libraries, new opportunities for shared collections and networks.

The environment in which this strategic plan has been developed is, at
the moment, dominated by a sense of library limits.  The continued
expansion and rapid growth of local academic library collections is now
clearly at an end.  Corporate libraries, and even law libraries, are
faced with operating within a difficult economic climate, as well as with
very active competition from commercial information sources.  For
example, public libraries may be seen as a desirable but not critical
municipal service in a time when the budgets of safety and health
agencies are being cut back.

Further, libraries in general have a very high labortocost ratio in
their budgets, and labor costs are still increasing, notwithstanding
automation investments.  It is difficult for libraries to obtain capital,
startup, or seed funding for innovative activities, and those
technologyintensive initiatives that offer the potential of decreased
labor costs can provoke the opposition of library staff.

However, libraries have achieved some considerable successes in the past
two decades by improving both their service and their credibility within
their organizationsand these positive changes have been accomplished
mostly with judicious use of information technologies.  The advances in
computing and information technology have been wellchronicled:  the
continuing precipitous drop in computing costs, the growth of the
Internet and private networks, and the explosive increase in publicly
available information databases.

For example, OCLC has become one of the largest computer network
organizations in the world by creating a cooperative cataloging network
of more than 6,000 libraries worldwide.  Online public access catalogs
now serve millions of users on more than 50,000 dedicated terminals in
the United States alone.  The University of California MELVYL online
catalog system has now expanded into an index database reference service
and supports more than six million searches a year.  And, libraries have
become the largeHG TILFK LU XFHGLNVIH LU XWILN KFYORHSRMT GVXSMLOLTB
NLIV GSZM 30,000 LKGRXZO NVWRZ KFYORXZGRLMH HFXS ZH GSLHV LUUVIVW YB
RMULGIZX ZMW HROEVI KOZGGVI ZIV HFYHXIRYVW GL YB F.H. ORYIZIRVH.

GSRH NZIXS LU GVXSMLOLTB XLMGRMFVH ZMW RM GSV MVCG WVXZWV DROO IVHFOG RM
UFIGSVI RMMLEZGRLMH GSZG ZIV VCGIVNVOB WRUURXFOG GL KIVWRXG.  DSZG RH
XOVZI RH GSZG ORYIZIRVH XZM MLD TL YVBLMW ZFGLNZGRLM LU GSVRI LIWVI UROVH
ZMW XZGZOLTH GL ZFGLNZGRLM LU GSVRI XLOOVXGRLMH GSVNHVOEVHZMW RG RH
KLHHRYOV GL XRIXFNEVMG GSV URHXZO ORNRGZGRLMH GSZG ZKKVZI GL LYGZRM
GLWZB.

GSRH VOVXGILMRX ORYIZIB HGIZGVTRX KOZM IVXLNNVMWH Z KZIZWRTN HSRUG RM
ORYIZIB HVIERXV, ZMW WVNLMHGIZGVH GSV HGVKH MVXVHHZIB GL KILERWV RNKILEVW
