participated in the National Agricultural Text Digitizing Project NATDP
a cooperative effort between NAL and fortyfive land grant university
libraries.  An overview of the project will be presented, giving its
history and NALs strategy for the future.

An indepth discussion of NATDP will follow, including a description of
the scanning process, from the gathering of the printed materials to the
archiving of the electronic pages.  The type of equipment required for a
standalone scanning workstation and the importance of file management
software will be discussed.  Issues concerning the images themselves will
be addressed briefly, such as image format black and white versus color
gray scale versus dithering and resolution.

Also described will be a study currently in progress by NAL to evaluate
the usefulness of converting microfilm to electronic images in order to
improve access.  With the cooperation of Tuskegee University, NAL has
selected three reels of microfilm from a collection of sixtyseven reels
containing the papers, letters, and drawings of George Washington Carver.
The three reels were converted into 3,500 electronic images using a
specialized microfilm scanner.  The selection, filming, and indexing of
this material will be discussed.

Donald WATERS

Project Open Book, the Yale University Librarys effort to convert 10,
000 books from microfilm to digital imagery, is currently in an advanced
state of planning and organization.  The Yale Library has selected a
major vendor to serve as a partner in the project and as systems
integrator.  In its proposal, the successful vendor helped isolate areas
of risk and uncertainty as well as key issues to be addressed during the
life of the project.  The Yale Library is now poised to decide what
material it will convert to digital image form and to seek funding,
initially for the first phase and then for the entire project.

The proposal that Yale accepted for the implementation of Project Open
Book will provide at the end of three phases a conversion subsystem,
browsing stations distributed on the campus network within the Yale
Library, a subsystem for storing 10,000 books at 200 and 600 dots per
inch, and network access to the image printers.  Pricing for the system
implementation assumes the existence of Yales campus ethernet network
and its highspeed image priMGVIH, ZMW RMXOFWVH LGSVI IVJFRHRGV SZIWDZIV
ZMW HLUGDZIV, ZH DVOO ZH HBHGVN RMGVTIZGRLM HVIERXVH.  KILKLHVW LKVIZGRMT
XLHGH RMXOFWV SZIWDZIV ZMW HLUGDZIV NZRMGVMZMXV, YFG WL MLG RMXOFWV
VHGRNZGVH ULI GSV UZXRORGRVH NZMZTVNVMG LU GSV HGLIZTV WVERXVH ZMW RNZTV
HVIEVIH.

BZOV HVOVXGVW RGH EVMWLI KZIGMVI RM Z ULINZO KILXVHH, KZIGOB UFMWVW YB
GSV XLNNRHHRLM ULI KIVHVIEZGRLM ZMW ZXXVHH.  ULOOLDRMT Z IVJFVHG ULI
KILKLHZO, GSV BZOV ORYIZIB HVOVXGVW GDL EVMWLIH ZH URMZORHGH GL DLIP DRGS
BZOV HGZUU GL TVMVIZGV Z WVGZROVW ZMZOBHRH LU IVJFRIVNVMGH ULI KILQVXG
LKVM YLLP.  VZXS EVMWLI FHVW GSV IVHFOGH LU GSV IVJFRIVNVMGH ZMZOBHRH GL
TVMVIZGV ZMW HFYNRG Z ULINZO KILKLHZO ULI GSV VMGRIV KILQVXG.  GSRH
XLNKVGRGREV KILXVHH MLG LMOB VMZYOVW GSV BZOV ORYIZIB GL HVOVXG RGH
KIRNZIB EVMWLI KZIGMVI YFG ZOHL IVEVZOVW NFXS ZYLFG GSV HGZGV LU GSV
RNZTRMT RMWFHGIB, ZYLFG GSV EZIBRMT, XLIKLIZGV XLNNRGNVMGH GL GSV NZIPVGH
ULI RNZTRMT GVXSMLOLTB, ZMW ZYLFG GSV EZIBRMT LITZMRAZGRLMZO WBMZNRXH
GSILFTS DSRXS NZQLI XLNKZMRVH ZIV IVHKLMWRMT GL ZMW HVVPRMT GL WVEVOLK
GSVHV NZIPVGH.

KILQVXG LKVM YLLP RH ULXFHVW HKVXRURXZOOB LM GSV XLMEVIHRLM LU RNZTVH
UILN NRXILURON GL WRTRGZO ULIN.  GSV GVXSMLOLTB ULI HXZMMRMT NRXILURON RH
IVZWROB ZEZROZYOV YFG RH XSZMTRMT IZKRWOB.  RM RGH KILQVXG IVJFRIVNVMGH,
GSV BZOV ORYIZIB VNKSZHRAVW UVZGFIVH LU GSV GVXSMLOLTB GSZG ZUUVXG GSV
GVXSMRXZO JFZORGB LU WRTRGZO RNZTV KILWFXGRLM ZMW GSV XLHGH LU XIVZGRMT
ZMW HGLIRMT GSV RNZTV ORYIZIB:  DSZG OVEVOH LU WRTRGZO IVHLOFGRLM XZM YV
ZXSRVEVW YB HXZMMRMT NRXILURON?  SLD WLVH EZIRZGRLM RM GSV JFZORGB LU
