affect the quality of the digital images?  What technologies can an
operator effectively and economically apply when scanning film to
separate twoup images and to control for and correct image
imperfections?  How can quality control best be integrated into
digitizing work flow that includes document indexing and storage?

The actual and expected uses of digital imagesstorage, browsing,
printing, and OCRhelp determine the standards for measuring their
quality.  Browsing is especially important, but the facilities available
for readers to browse image documents is perhaps the weakest aspect of
imaging technology and most in need of development.  As it defined its
requirements, the Yale Library concentrated on some fundamental aspects
of usability for image documents:  Does the system have sufficient
flexibility to handle the full range of document types, including
monographs, multipart and multivolume sets, and serials, as well as
manuscript collections?  What conventions are necessary to identify a
document uniquely for storage and retrieval?  Where is the database of
record for storing bibliographic information about the image document?
How are basic internal structures of documents, such as pagination, made
accessible to the reader?  How are the image documents physically
presented on the screen to the reader?

The Yale Library designed Project Open Book on the assumption that
microfilm is more than adequate as a medium for preserving the content of
deteriorated library materials.  As planning in the project has advanced,
it is increasingly clear that the challenge of digital image technology
and the key to the success of efforts like Project Open Book is to
provide a means of both preserving and improving access to those
deteriorated materials.

SESSION IVB

George THOMA

In the use of electronic imaging for document preservation, there are
several issues to consider, such as:  ensuring adequate image quality,
maintaining substantial conversion rates throughput, providing unique
identification for automated access and retrieval, and ZXXLNNLWZGRMT
YLFMW ELOFNVH ZMW UIZTROV NZGVIRZO.

GL NZRMGZRM SRTS RNZTV JFZORGB, RNZTV KILXVHHRMT UFMXGRLMH ZIV IVJFRIVW
GL XLIIVXG GSV WVURXRVMXRVH RM GSV HXZMMVW RNZTV.  HLNV XLNNVIXRZOOB
ZEZROZYOV HBHGVNH RMXOFWV GSVHV UFMXGRLMH, DSROV HLNV WL MLG.  GSV
HXZMMVW IZD RNZTV NFHG YV KILXVHHVW GL XLIIVXG XLMGIZHG WVURXRVMXRVH
YLGS KLLI LEVIZOO XLMGIZHG IVHFOGRMT UILN ORTSG KIRMG ZMWLI WZIP
YZXPTILFMW, ZMW EZIRZYOV XLMGIZHG IVHFOGRMT UILN HGZRMH ZMW
YOVVWGSILFTS.  UFIGSVINLIV, GSV HXZM WVMHRGB NFHG YV ZWVJFZGV GL ZOOLD
OVTRYRORGB LU KIRMG ZMW HFUURXRVMG URWVORGB RM GSV KHVFWLSZOUGLMVW TIZB
NZGVIRZO.  YLIWVIH LI KZTVVWTV VUUVXGH NFHG YV IVNLEVW ULI YLGS
XLNKZXGRYRORGB ZMW ZVHGSVGRXH.  KZTV HPVD NFHG YV XLIIVXGVW ULI ZVHGSVGRX
IVZHLMH ZMW GL VMZYOV ZXXFIZGV XSZIZXGVI IVXLTMRGRLM RU WVHRIVW.
XLNKLFMW RNZTVH XLMHRHGRMT LU YLGS GDLGLMVW GVCG ZMW TIZBHXZOV
ROOFHGIZGRLMH NFHG YV KILXVHHVW ZKKILKIRZGVOB GL IVGZRM GSV JFZORGB LU
VZXS.

HVHHRLM REX

QVZM YZILMZH

HGZMWZIWH KFYORXZGRLMH YVRMT WVEVOLKVW YB HXRVMGRHGH, VMTRMVVIH, ZMW
YFHRMVHH NZMZTVIH RM ZHHLXRZGRLM ULI RMULINZGRLM ZMW RNZTV NZMZTVNVMG
ZRRN HGZMWZIWH XLNNRGGVVH XZM YV ZKKORVW GL VOVXGILMRX RNZTV NZMZTVNVMG
VRN KILXVHHVH RMXOFWRMT:  WLXFNVMG RNZTV GIZMHUVI, IVGIRVEZO ZMW
VEZOFZGRLM LKGRXZO WRHP ZMW WLXFNVMG HXZMMRMT ZMW WLXFNVMG WVHRTM ZMW
XLMEVIHRLM.  DSVM XLNYRMVW DRGS VRN HBHGVN KOZMMRMT ZMW LKVIZGRLMH,
