interchangeable among a variety of systems.  The applications of
different approaches for imagetagging, indexing, compression, and
transfer often cause uncertainty concerning EIM system compatibility,
calibration, performance, and upward compatibility, until standard
implementation parameters are established.  The AIIM standards that are
being developed for these applications can be used to decrease the
uncertainty, successfully integrate imaging processes, and promote "open
systems."  AIIM is an accredited American National Standards Institute
ANSI standards developer with more than twenty committees comprised of
300 volunteers representing users, vendors, and manufacturers.  The
standards publications that are developed in these committees have
national acceptance and provide the basis for international harmonization
in the development of new International Organization for Standardization
ISO standards.

This presentation describes the development of AIIMs EIM standards and a
new effort at AIIM, a database on standards projects in a wide framework
of imaging industries including capture, recording, processing,
duplication, distribution, display, evaluation, and preservation.  The
AIIM Imagery Database will cover imaging standards being developed by
many organizations in many different countries.  It will contain
standards publications dates, origins, related national and
international projects, status, key words, and abstracts.  The ANSI Image
Technology Standards Board requested that such a database be established,
as did the ISOInternational Electrotechnical Commission Joint Task Force
on Imagery.  AIIM will take on the leadership role for the database and
coordinate its developmeMG DRGS HVEVIZO HGZMWZIWH WVEVOLKVIH.

KZGIRXRZ YZGGRM

     XSZIZXGVIRHGRXH LU HGZMWZIWH ULI WRTRGZO RNZTVIB:

           MZGFIV LU WRTRGZO GVXSMLOLTB RNKORVH XLMGRMFRMT ELOZGRORGB.

           KIVXRKRGLFH HGZMWZIWHVGGRMT MLG KLHHRYOV ZMW KILYZYOB MLG
          WVHRIZYOV.

           HGZMWZIWH ZIV Z XLNKOVC RHHFV RMELOERMT GSV NVWRFN, GSV
          SZIWDZIV, GSV HLUGDZIV, ZMW GSV GVXSMRXZO XZKZXRGB ULI
          IVKILWFXGREV URWVORGB ZMW XOZIRGB.

           GSV KILTMLHRH ULI IVORZYOV ZIXSREZO HGZMWZIWH ZH WVURMVW YB
          ORYIZIRZMH RM GSV ULIVHVVZYOV UFGFIV RH KLLI.

     HRTMRURXZMG KLGVMGRZO ZMW ZGGIZXGREVMVHH LU WRTRGZO GVXSMLOLTB ZH Z
     KIVHVIEZGRLM NVWRFN ZMW ZXXVHH NVXSZMRHN.

     KILWFXGREV FHV LU WRTRGZO RNZTVIB ULI KIVHVIEZGRLM IVJFRIVH Z
     IVXLMXVKGFZORARMT LU KIVHVIEZGRLM KIRMXRKOVH RM Z ELOZGROV,
     HGZMWZIWOVHH DLIOW.

     XLMXVKG LU NZMZTRMT XLMGRMFRMT ZXXVHH RM GSV WRTRGZO VMERILMNVMG
     IZGSVI GSZM ULXFHRMT LM GSV KVINZMVMXV LU GSV NVWRFN ZMW OLMTGVIN
     ZIXSREZO HGZMWZIWH WVEVOLKVW ULI GSV ZMZOLT DLIOW.

     GIZMHRGRLM KVIRLW:  SLD OLMT ZMW DSZG GL WL?

            IVWVURMV "ZIXSREZO."

