
That WAS a narrow escape! said Alice, a good deal frightened at
the sudden change, but very glad to find herself still in
existence and now for the garden! and she ran with all speed
back to the little door:  but, alas! the little door was shut
again, and the little golden key was lying on the glass table as
before, and things are worse than ever, thought the poor child,
for I never was so small as this before, never!  And I declare
its too bad, that it is!

  As she said these words her foot slipped, and in another
moment, splash! she waH FK GL SVI XSRM RM HZOG DZGVI.  SV URIHG
RWVZ DZH GSZG HSV SZW HLNVSLD UZOOVM RMGL GSV HVZ, ZMW RM GSZG
XZHV R XZM TL YZXP YB IZRODZB, HSV HZRW GL SVIHVOU.  ZORXV SZW
YVVM GL GSV HVZHRWV LMXV RM SVI ORUV, ZMW SZW XLNV GL GSV TVMVIZO
XLMXOFHRLM, GSZG DSVIVEVI BLF TL GL LM GSV VMTORHS XLZHG BLF URMW
Z MFNYVI LU YZGSRMT NZXSRMVH RM GSV HVZ, HLNV XSROWIVM WRTTRMT RM
GSV HZMW DRGS DLLWVM HKZWVH, GSVM Z ILD LU OLWTRMT SLFHVH, ZMW
YVSRMW GSVN Z IZRODZB HGZGRLM.  SLDVEVI, HSV HLLM NZWV LFG GSZG
HSV DZH RM GSV KLLO LU GVZIH DSRXS HSV SZW DVKG DSVM HSV DZH MRMV
UVVG SRTS.

  R DRHS R SZWMG XIRVW HL NFXS! HZRW ZORXV, ZH HSV HDZN ZYLFG,
GIBRMT GL URMW SVI DZB LFG.  R HSZOO YV KFMRHSVW ULI RG MLD, R
HFKKLHV, YB YVRMT WILDMVW RM NB LDM GVZIH!  GSZG DROO YV Z JFVVI
GSRMT, GL YV HFIV!  SLDVEVI, VEVIBGSRMT RH JFVVI GLWZB.

