highlighted the virtues of Internet today and of the network that will
evolve from Internet.  Listeners could discern in these narratives a
vision of an information democracy in which millions of citizens freely
find and use what they need.  LYNCH noted that a lack of standards
inhibits disseminating multimedia on the network, a topic also discussed
by BESSER.  LARSEN addressed the issues of network scalability and
modularity and commented upon the difficulty of anticipating the effects
of growth in orders of magnitude.  BROWNRIGG talked about the ability of
packet radio to provide certain links in a network without the need for
wiring.  However, the preseMGVIH ZOHL XZOOVW ZGGVMGRLM GL GSV
HSLIGXLNRMTH ZMW RMXLMTIFRGRVH LU KIVHVMGWZB XLNKFGVI MVGDLIPH.  ULI
VCZNKOV:  1 MVGDLIP FHV RH TILDRMT WIZNZGRXZOOB, YFG NFXS MVGDLIP
GIZUURX XLMHRHGH LU KVIHLMZO XLNNFMRXZGRLM VNZRO.  2 OZITV YLWRVH LU
RMULINZGRLM ZIV ZEZROZYOV, YFG Z FHVIH ZYRORGB GL HVZIXS ZXILHH GSVRI
VMGRIVGB RH ORNRGVW.  3 GSVIV ZIV HRTMRURXZMG IVHLFIXVH ULI HXRVMXV ZMW
GVXSMLOLTB, YFG UVD MVGDLIP HLFIXVH KILERWV XLMGVMG RM GSV SFNZMRGRVH.
4 NZXSRMVIVZWZYOV GVCGH ZIV XLNNLMKOZXV, YFG GSV XZKZYRORGB LU GSV
HBHGVN GL WVZO DRGS RNZTVH OVG ZOLMV LGSVI NVWRZ ULINZGH OZTH YVSRMW.
Z TORNKHV LU Z NFOGRNVWRZ UFGFIV ULI MVGDLIPH, SLDVEVI, DZH KILERWVW YB
NZIRZ OVYILM RM SVI LEVIERVD LU GSV LMORMV QLFIMZO LU XFIIVMG XORMRXZO
GIRZOH LQXXG, ZMW GSV KILXVHH LU HXSLOZIOB KFYORHSRMT LMORMV.

GSV XLMGIZHGRMT ULIN LU GSV XWILN WRHP DZH MVEVI HBHGVNZGRXZOOB
ZMZOBAVW, YFG ZGGVMWVVH XLFOW TOVZM ZM RNKIVHHRLM UILN HVEVIZO LU GSV
HSLDZMWGVOO KIVHVMGZGRLMH.  GSV KVIHVFH ZMW ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB VCZNKOVH
