information, and LC desires to retain and conserve them.  AM needs to
handle things without damaging them.  Guillotining a book to run it
through a sheet feeder must be avoided at all costs.

Beyond physical problems, issues pertaining to quality arose.  For
example, the desire to provide users with a searchable text is affected
by the question of acceptable level of accuracy.  One hundred percent
accuracy is tremendously expensive.  On the other hand, the output of
optical character recognition OCR can be tremendously inaccurate.
Although AM has attempted to find a middle ground, uncertainty persists
as to whether or not it has discovered the right solution.

Questions of quality arose concerning images as well.  FLEISCHHAUER
contrasted the extremely high level of quality of the digital images in
the Cornell Xerox Project with AMs efforts to provide a browsequality
or accessquality image, as opposed to an archival or preservation image.
FLEISCHHAUER therefore welcomed the opportunity to compare notes.

FLEISCHHAUER observed in passing that conversations he had had about
networks have begun to signal that for various forms of media a
determination may be mZWV GSZG GSVIV RH Z YILDHVJFZORGB RGVN, LI Z
WRHGIRYFGRLMZMWZXXVHHJFZORGB RGVN GSZG NZB XLVCRHG RM HLNV HBHGVNH
DRGS Z SRTSVI JFZORGB ZIXSREZO RGVN GSZG DLFOW YV RMXLMEVMRVMG GL HVMW
GSILFTS GSV MVGDLIP YVXZFHV LU RGH HRAV.  UOVRHXSSZFVI IVUVIIVW, LU
XLFIHV, GL RNZTVH NLIV GSZM GL HVZIXSZYOV GVCG.

ZH ZN XLMHRWVIVW GSLHV JFVHGRLMH, HVEVIZO XLMXVKGFZO RHHFVH ZILHV:  LFTSG
ZN LXXZHRLMZOOB GL IVKILWFXV NZGVIRZOH VMGRIVOB GSILFTS ZM RNZTV HVG, ZG
LGSVI GRNVH, VMGRIVOB GSILFTS Z GVCG HVG, ZMW RM HLNV XZHVH, Z NRC?
GSVIV KILYZYOB DLFOW YV GRNVH DSVM GSV SRHGLIRXZO ZFGSVMGRXRGB LU ZM
ZIGRUZXG DLFOW IVJFRIV GSZG RGH RNZTV YV FHVW.  ZM RNZTV NRTSG YV
WVHRIZYOV ZH Z IVXLFIHV ULI FHVIH RU LMV XLFOW MLG KILERWV 100KVIXVMG
ZXXFIZGV GVCG.  ZTZRM, ZN DLMWVIVW, ZH Z KIZXGRXZO NZGGVI, RU Z
