to thirtysix during the past year July 1991 to June 1992.  Most of
these electronic scholarly journals are devoted to topics in the
humanities.  As with network conferences, scholarly enthusiasm for these
electronic journals stems from the mediums unique ability to advance
scholarship in a way that no other medium can do by supporting global
feedback and interchange, practically in real time, early in the research
process.  Beyond scholarly journals, MICHELSON remarked the delivery of
commercial fulltext products, such as articles in professional journals,
newsletters, magazines, wire services, and reference sources.  These are
being delivered via online local library catalogues, especially through
CDROMs.  Furthermore, according to MICHELSON, there is general optimism
that the copyright and fees issues impeding the delivery of full text on
existing research and education networks soon will be resolved.

The final process of scholarly communication is curriculum development
and instruction, and this involves the use of computer information
technologies in two areas.  The first is the development of
computeroriented instructional tools, which includes simulations,
multimedia applications, and computer tools that are used to assist in
the analysis of sources in the classroom, etc.  The Perseus Project, a
database that provides a multimedia curriculum on classical Greek
civilization, is a good example of the way in which entire curricula are
being recast using information technologies.  It is anticipated that the
current difficulty in exchanging electronically computerbased
inHGIFXGRLMZO HLUGDZIV, DSRXS RM GFIM NZPVH RG WRUURXFOG ULI LMV HXSLOZI
GL YFROW FKLM GSV DLIP LU LGSVIH, DROO YV IVHLOEVW YVULIV GLL OLMT.
HGZMWZOLMV XFIIRXFOZI ZKKORXZGRLMH GSZG RMELOEV VOVXGILMRX GVCG DROO YV
HSZIZYOV GSILFTS MVGDLIPH, IVRMULIXRMT GSVRI HRTMRURXZMXV ZH RMGVOOVXGFZO
KILWFXGH ZH DVOO ZH RMHGIFXGRLMZO GLLOH.

GSV HVXLMW ZHKVXG LU VOVXGILMRX OVZIMRMT RMELOEVH GSV FHV LU IVHVZIXS ZMW
