environment to grasp.  Because of that, it occasionally becomes difficult
to draw conclusions from what one is viewing.

FREEMAN also noted the obvious fear of the computer, which constitutes a
difficulty in using an electronic resource.  Though students in general
did not suffer from this anxiety, several older students feared that they
were computerilliterate, an assumption that became selffulfilling when
they searched for something but failed to find it.  FREEMAN said she
believed that some teachers also fear computer resources, because they
believe they lack complete control.  FREEMAN related the example of
teachers shooing away students because it was not their time to use the
system.  This was a case in which the situation had to be extremely
structured so that the teacherH DLFOW MLG UVVO GSZG GSVB SZW OLHG GSVRI
TIZHK LM DSZG GSV HBHGVN XLMGZRMVW.

Z URMZO JFVHGRLM IZRHVW YB UIVVNZM XLMXVIMVW ZXXVHH ZMW ZEZROZYRORGB LU
GSV HBHGVN.  HSV MLGVW GSV LXXZHRLMZO VCRHGVMXV LU Z TZK RM XLNNFMRXZGRLM
YVGDVVM HXSLLO ORYIZIRZMH ZMW GVZXSVIH.  LUGVM ZN HRGH RM Z HXSLLO
ORYIZIB ZMW GSV ORYIZIRZM RH GSV KVIHLM IVHKLMHRYOV ULI NLMRGLIRMT GSV
HBHGVN.  GVZXSVIH WL MLG ZODZBH GZPV RMGL GSVRI DLIOW MVD ORYIZIB
IVHLFIXVH ZYLFG DSRXS GSV ORYIZIRZM RH VCXRGVW.  RMWVVW, ZG GSV HRGVH
DSVIV ZN SZW YVVM FHVW NLHG VUUVXGREVOB DRGSRM Z ORYIZIB, GSV ORYIZIRZM
DZH IVJFRIVW GL TL GL HKVXRURX GVZXSVIH ZMW RMHGIFXG GSVN RM RGH FHV.  ZH
Z IVHFOG, HVEVIZO ZN HRGVH DROO SZEV RMHVIERXV HVHHRLMH LEVI Z HFNNVI,
RM GSV SLKV GSZG KVISZKH, DRGS Z NLIV RMWRERWFZORAVW ORMP, GVZXSVIH DROO
