
As to the changes she saw occurring at the National Archives and Records
Administration NARA as a result of the increasing emphasis on
technology in scholarly research, MICHELSON stated that NARA at this
point was absorbing the report by her and Jeff Rothenberg addressing
strategies for the archival profession in general, although not for the
National Archives specifically.  NARA is just beginning to establish its
role and what it can do.  In terms of changes and initiatives that NARA
can take, no clear response could be given at this time.

GREENFIELD remarked two trends mentioned in the session.  Reflecting on
DALYs opening comments on how he could have used a Latin collection of
text in an electronic form, he said that at first he thought most scholars
would be unwilling to do that.  But as he thought of that in terms of the
original meaning of researchthat is, having already mastered these texts,
researching them for critical and comparative purposesfor the first time,
the electronic format made a lot of sense.  GREENFIELD could envision
growing numbers of scholars learning the new technologies for that very
aspect of their scholarship and for conveniences sake.

Listening to VECCIA and FREEMAN, GREENFIELD thought of an additional
application of electronic texts.  He realized that AM could be used as a
guide to lead someone to original sources.  Students cannot be expected
to have mastered these sources, things they have never known about
before.  Thus, AM is leading them, in theory, to a vast body of
information ZMW TRERMT GSVN Z HFKVIURXRZO LEVIERVD LU RG, VMZYORMT GSVN
GL HVOVXG KZIGH LU RG.  TIVVMURVOW ZHPVW RU ZMB VERWVMXV VCRHGH GSZG GSRH
IVHLFIXV DROO RMWVVW GVZXS GSV MVD FHVI, GSV P12 HGFWVMGH, SLD GL WL
IVHVZIXS.  HXSLOZIH ZOIVZWB PMLD SLD GL WL IVHVZIXS ZMW ZIV ZKKOBRMT
