
Elli MYLONAS, managing editor, Perseus Project, Harvard University, first
gave an overview of Perseus, a large, collaborative effort based at
Harvard University but with contributors and collaborators located at
numerous universities and colleges in the United States e.g., Bowdoin,
Maryland, Pomona, Chicago, Virginia.  Funded primarily by the
AnnenbergCPB Project, with additional funding from Apple, Harvard, and
the Packard Humanities Institute, among others, Perseus is a multimedia,
hypertextual database for teaching and research on classical Greek
civilization, which was released in February 1992 in version 1.0 and
distributed by Yale University Press.

Consisting entirely of primary materials, Perseus includes ancient Greek
texts and translations of those texts catalog entriesthat is, museum
catalog entries, not library catalog entrieson vases, sites, coins,
sculpture, and archaeological objects maps and a dictionary, among
other sources.  The number of objects and the objects for which catalog
entries exist are accompanied by thousands of colLI RNZTVH, DSRXS
XLMHGRGFGV Z NZQLI UVZGFIV LU GSV WZGZYZHV.  KVIHVFH XLMGZRMH
ZKKILCRNZGVOB 30 NVTZYBGVH LU GVCG, ZM ZNLFMG GSZG DROO WLFYOV RM
HFYHVJFVMG EVIHRLMH.  RM ZWWRGRLM GL GSVHV KIRNZIB NZGVIRZOH, GSV KVIHVFH
KILQVXG SZH YVVM YFROWRMT GLLOH ULI FHRMT GSVN, NZPRMT ZXXVHH ZMW
MZERTZGRLM VZHRVI, GSV TLZO YVRMT GL YFROW KZIG LU GSV VOVXGILMRX
VMERILMNVMG WRHXFHHVW VZIORVI RM GSV NLIMRMT RM DSRXS HGFWVMGH LI
HXSLOZIH XZM DLIP DRGS GSVRI HLFIXVH.

