only lacking experience in "electronifying" things but also in automated
cataloguing.  MARC cataloguing as practiced in the United States is
heavily weighted toward the description of monograph and serial
materials, but is much thinner when one enters the world of manuscripts
and things that are held in the Librarys music collection and other
units.  In response to a comment by LESK, that AMs material is very
heavily photographic, and is so primarily because individual records have
been made for each photograph, FLEISCHHAUER observed that an itemlevel
catalog record exists, for example, for each photograph in the Detroit
Publishing collection of 25,000 pictures.  In the case of the Federal
Writers Project, for which nearly 3,000 documents exist, representing
information from twentysix different states, AM with the assistance of
Karen STUART of the Manuscript Division will attempt to find some way not
only to have a collectionlevel record but perhaps a MARC record for each
state, which will then serve as an umbrella for the 100200 documents
that come under it.  But that drama remains to be enacted.  The AM staff
is conservative and clings to cataloguing, though of course visitors tout
artificial intelligence and neural networks in a manner that suggests that
perhaps one need not have cataloguing or that much of it could be put aside.

The matter of SGML coding, FLEISCHHAUER conceded, returned the discussion
to the earlier treated question of quality versus quantity in the Library
of Congress.  Of course, text conversion can be done with 100percent
accuracy, but it means that when ones holdings are as vast as LCs only
a tiny ZNLFMG DROO YV VCKLHVW, DSVIVZH KVINRGGRMT OLDVI OVEVOH LU
ZXXFIZXB XZM OVZW GL VCKLHRMT LI HSZIRMT OZITVI ZNLFMGH, YFG DRGS GSV
JFZORGB XLIIVHKLMWRMTOB RNKZRIVW.

                                 


GDLSRT  Z XLMGIZIB VCKVIRVMXV XLMXVIMRMT VOVXGILMRX LKGRLMH  ELOFNV LU
NZGVIRZO RM GSV DZHSRMTGLM KZKVIH ZMW Z HFTTVHGRLM LU WZERW KZXPZIW 
RNKORXZGRLMH LU KZXPZIWH HFTTVHGRLM  GIZMHXIRYRMT GSV WLXFNVMGH ULI GSV
