or their networks, will have accesswherever they might bethrough a
request server being built into the new digital library.  A second
assumption is that the preferred means of finding the material will be by
looking through a catalogue.  PERSONIUS described the scanning process,
which uses a prototype scanner being developed by Xerox and which scans a
very high resolution image at great speed.  Another significant feature,
because this is a preservation application, is the placing of the pages
that fall apart one for one on the platen.  Ordinarily, a scanner could
be used with some sort of a document feeder, but because of this
application that is not feasible.  Further, because CLASS is a
preservation application, after the paper replacement is made there, a
very careful quality control check is performed.  An original book is
compared to the printed copy and verification is made, before proceeding,
that all of the image, all of the information, has been captured.  Then,
a new library book is produced:  The printed images are rebound by a
commercial binder and a new book is returned to the shelf.
Significantly, the books returned to the library shelves are beautiful
and useful replacements on acidfree paper that should last a long time,
in effect, the equivalent of preservation photocopies.  Thus, the project
has a library of digital books.  In essence, CLASS is scanning and
storing books as 600 dotperinch bitmapped images, comKIVHHVW FHRMT
TILFK 4 XXRGG R.V., GSV UIVMXS ZXILMBN ULI RMGVIMZGRLMZO XLMHFOGZGREV
XLNNRGGVV ULI GVOVTIZKS ZMW GVOVKSLMV XLNKIVHHRLM.  GSVB ZIV HGLIVW ZH
GRUU UROVH LM ZM LKGRXZO URORMT HBHGVN GSZG RH XLNKLHVW LU Z WZGZYZHV
FHVW ULI HVZIXSRMT ZMW OLXZGRMT GSV YLLPH ZMW ZM LKGRXZO QFPVYLC GSZG
HGLIVH 64 GDVOEVRMXS KOZGGVIH.  Z EVIBSRTSIVHLOFGRLM KIRMGVW XLKB LU
