

ZICH  Issues pertaining to CDROMs  Options for publishing in CDROM 


Robert ZICH, special assistant to the associate librarian for special
projects, Library of Congress, and moderator of this session, first noted
the blessed but somewhat awkward circumstance of having four very
distinguished people representing networks and networking or at least
leaning in that direction, while lacking anyone to speak from the
strongest possible background in CDROMs.  ZICH expressed the hope that
members of the audience would join the discussion.  He stressed the
subtitle of this particular session, "Options for Dissemination," and,
concerning CDROMs, the importance of determining when it would be wise
to consider dissemination in CDROM versus networks.  A shopping list of
issues pertaining to CDROMs included:  the grounds foI HVOVXGRMT
XLNNVIXRZO KFYORHSVIH, ZMW RMSLFHV KFYORXZGRLM DSVIV KLHHRYOV EVIHFH
MLMKILURG LI TLEVIMNVMG KFYORXZGRLM.  Z HRNROZI ORHG ULI MVGDLIPH
RMXOFWVW:  WVGVINRMRMT DSVM LMV HSLFOW XLMHRWVI WRHHVNRMZGRLM GSILFTS Z
MVGDLIP, RWVMGRUBRMT GSV NVXSZMRHNH LI VMGRGRVH GSZG VCRHG GL KOZXV RGVNH
LM MVGDLIPH, RWVMGRUBRMT GSV KLLO LU VCRHGRMT MVGDLIPH, WVGVINRMRMT SLD Z
KILWFXVI  DLFOW XSLLHV YVGDVVM MVGDLIPH, ZMW RWVMGRUBRMT GSV VOVNVMGH LU
Z YFHRMVHH ZIIZMTVNVMG RM Z MVGDLIP.

LKGRLMH ULI KFYORHSRMT RM XWILN:  ZM LFGHRWV KFYORHSVI EVIHFH
HVOUKFYORXZGRLM.  RU ZM LFGHRWV KFYORHSVI RH FHVW, RG XZM YV MLMKILURG,
HFXS ZH GSV TLEVIMNVMG KIRMGRMT LUURXV TKL LI GSV MZGRLMZO GVXSMRXZO
RMULINZGRLM HVIERXV MGRH, RM GSV XZHV LU TLEVIMNVMG.  GSV KILH ZMW XLMH
ZHHLXRZGVW DRGS VNKOLBRMT ZM LFGHRWV KFYORHSVI ZIV LYERLFH.  ZNLMT GSV
