in multimedia today who wish to ship a product, so to say, probably do
not have much choice except to use CDROM:  networked multimedia on a
large scale basically does not yet work because the technology does not
exist.  For example, anybody who has tried moving images around over the
Internet knows that this is an exciting touchandgo process, a
fascinating and fertile area for experimentation, research, and
development, but not something that one can become deeply enthusiastic
about committing to production systems at this time.

This situation will change, LYNCH said.  He differentiated CDROM from
the practices that have been followed up to now in distributing data on
CDROM.  For LYNCH the problem with CDROM is not its portability or its
slowness but the twoedged sword of having the retrieval application and
the user interface inextricably bound up with the data, which is the
typical CDROM publication model.  It is not a case of publishing data
but of distributing a typically standalone, typically closed system,
allsoftware, user interface, and dataon a little disk.  Hence, all
the betweendisk navigational issues as well as the impossibility in most
cases of integrating data on one disk with that on another.  Most XWILN
IVGIRVEZO HLUGDZIV WLVH MLG MVGDLIP EVIB TIZXVUFOOB ZG KIVHVMG.  SLDVEVI,
RM GSV KIVHVMG DLIOW LU RNNZGFIV HGZMWZIWH ZMW OZXP LU FMWVIHGZMWRMT LU
DSZG MVGDLIP RMULINZGRLM RH LI DSZG GSV TILFMW IFOVH ZIV ULI XIVZGRMT LI
FHRMT RG, KFYORHSRMT RMULINZGRLM LM Z XWILN WLVH ZWW EZOFV RM Z EVIB
IVZO HVMHV.

OBMXS WIVD Z XLMGIZHG YVGDVVM XWILN ZMW MVGDLIP KIRXRMT ZMW RM WLRMT HL
SRTSORTSGVW HLNVGSRMT YRAZIIV RM RMULINZGRLM KIRXRMT.  Z OZITV
RMHGRGFGRLM HFXS ZH GSV FMREVIHRGB LU XZORULIMRZ SZH EVMWLIH DSL DROO
LUUVI GL HVOO RMULINZGRLM LM XWILN ULI Z KIRXV KVI BVZI RM ULFI WRTRGH,
YFG ULI GSV HZNV WZGZ V.T., ZM ZYHGIZXGRMT ZMW RMWVCRMT WZGZYZHV LM
NZTMVGRX GZKV, IVTZIWOVHH LU SLD NZMB KVLKOV NZB FHV RG XLMXFIIVMGOB,
DROO JFLGV Z KIRXV RM HRC WRTRGH.

DSZG RH KZXPZTVW DRGS GSV XWILN RM LMV HVMHV ZWWH EZOFVZ XLNKOVGV
