The notion of layering also struck LYNCH as lurking in several of the
projects demonstrated.  Several databases in a sense constitute
information archives without a significant amount of navigation built in.
Educators, critics, and others will want a layered structureone that
defines or links paths through the layers to allow users to reach
specific points.  In LYNCHs view, layering will become increasingly
necessary, and not just within a single resource but across resources
e.g., tracing mythology and cultural themes across several classics
databases as well as a database of Renaissance culture.  This ability to
organize resources, to build things out of multiple other things on the
network or select pieces of it, represented for LYNCH one of the key
aspects of network information.

Contending that information reuse constituted another significant issue,
LYNCH commended to the audiences attention Project NEEDS i.e., National
Engineering Education Delivery System.  This projects objective is to
produce a database of engineering courseware as well as the components
that can be used to develop new courseware.  In a number of the existing
applications, LYNCH said, the issue of reuse how much one can take apart
and reuse in other applications was not being well considered.  He also
raised the issue of active versus passive use, one aspect of which  is
how much information will be manipulated locally by users.  Most people,
he argued, may do a little browsing and then will wish to print.  LYNCH
was uncertain how these resources would be used by the vast majority of
users in the network environment.

LYNCH next said a few words about XWindows as a way of differentiating
between network access and networked information.  A number of the
applications demonstrated at the WoIPHSLK XLFOW YV IVDIRGGVM GL FHV C
ZXILHH GSV MVGDLIP, HL GSZG LMV XLFOW IFM GSVN UILN ZMB CXZKZYOV WVERXV
Z DLIPHGZGRLM, ZM C GVINRMZOZMW GIZMHZXG DRGS Z WZGZYZHV ZXILHH GSV
MVGDLIP.  ZOGSLFTS GSRH LKVMH FK ZXXVHH Z ORGGOV, ZHHFNRMT LMV SZH VMLFTS
MVGDLIP GL SZMWOV RG, RG WLVH MLG KILERWV ZM RMGVIUZXV GL WVEVOLK Z
