William HOOTON, vice president of operations, INET, moderated this session.


KENNEY  Factors influencing development of CXP  Advantages of using
digital technology versus photocopy and microfilm  A primary goal of
CXP publishing challenges  Characteristics of copies printed  Quality
of samples achieved in image capture  Several factors to be considered
in choosing scanning  Emphasis of CXP on timely and costeffective
production of blackandwhite printed facsimiles  Results of producing
microfilm from digital files  Advantages of creating microfilm  Details
concerning production  Costs  Role of digital technology in library
preservation 


Anne KENNEY, associate director, Department of Preservation and
Conservation, Cornell University, opened her talk by observing that the
Cornell Xerox Project CXP has been guided by the assumption that the
ability to produce printed facsimiles or to replace paper with paper
would be important, at least for the present generation of users and
equipment.  She described three factors that influenced development of
the project:  1 Because the project has emphasized the preservation of
deteriorating brittle books, the quality of what was produced had to be
sufficiently high to return a paper replacement to the shelf.  CXP was
only interested in using:  2 a system that was costeffective, which
meant that it had to be costcompetitive with the processes currently
available, principally photocLKB ZMW NRXILURON, ZMW 3 MVD LI XFIIVMGOB
ZEZROZYOV KILWFXG SZIWDZIV ZMW HLUGDZIV.

PVMMVB WVHXIRYVW GSV ZWEZMGZTVH GSZG FHRMT WRTRGZO GVXSMLOLTB LUUVIH LEVI
YLGS KSLGLXLKB ZMW NRXILURON:  1 GSV KLGVMGRZO VCRHGH GL XIVZGV Z SRTSVI
JFZORGB IVKILWFXGRLM LU Z WVGVIRLIZGRMT LIRTRMZO GSZM XLMEVMGRLMZO
ORTSGOVMH GVXSMLOLTB.  2 YVXZFHV Z WRTRGZO RNZTV RH ZM VMXLWVW
