processing of the material is nearly identical, in which NATDP is also
scanning material and loading it on a Next microcomputer, which in turn
is linked to NALs integrated library system.  Thus, searches in NALs
bibliographic database will enable people to pull up actual page images
and text for any documents that have been entered.

In accordance with the sessions topic, ZIDAR focused her illustrated
talk on image capture, offering a primer on the three main steps in the
process:  1 assemble the printed publications 2 design the database
database design occurs in the process of preparing the material for
scanning this step entails reviewing and organizing the material,
defining the contentswhat will constitute a record, what kinds of
fields will be captured iM GVINH LU ZFGSLI, GRGOV, VGX. 3 KVIULIN Z
XVIGZRM ZNLFMG LU NZIPFK LM GSV KZKVI KFYORXZGRLMH.  MZO KVIULINH GSRH
GZHP IVXLIW YB IVXLIW, KIVKZIRMT DLIP HSVVGH LI HLNV LGSVI HLIG LU
GIZXPRMT NZGVIRZO ZMW WVHRTMRMT WVHXIRKGLIH ZMW LGSVI VMSZMXVNVMGH GL YV
ZWWVW GL GSV WZGZ GSZG DROO MLG YV XZKGFIVW UILN GSV KIRMGVW KFYORXZGRLM.
KZIG LU GSRH KILXVHH ZOHL RMELOEVH WVGVINRMRMT MZGWKH UROV ZMW WRIVXGLIB
HGIFXGFIV:  MZGWK ZGGVNKGH GL ZELRW KFGGRMT NLIV GSZM ZKKILCRNZGVOB 100
RNZTVH RM Z WRIVXGLIB, YVXZFHV KOZXRMT NLIV GSZM GSZG LM Z XWILN DLFOW
IVWFXV GSV ZXXVHH HKVVW.

GSRH FKUILMG KILXVHH GZPVH ZKKILCRNZGVOB GDL DVVPH ULI Z
6,0007,000KZTV WZGZYZHV.  GSV MVCG HGVK RH GL XZKGFIV GSV KZTV RNZTVH.
SLD OLMT GSRH KILXVHH GZPVH RH WVGVINRMVW YB GSV WVXRHRLM DSVGSVI LI MLG
