unqualified success, ZIDAR reported:  because microfilm frame sizes vary,
occasionally some frames were missed, which without spending much time
and money could not be recaptured.

OCR could not be performed from the scanned images of the frames.  The
bleeding in the text simply output text, when OCR was run, that could not
even be edited.  NATDP tested for negative versus positive images,
landscape versus portrait orientation, and single versus dualpage
microfilm, none of which seemed to affect the quality of the image but
also on none of them could OCR be performed.

In selecting the microfilm they would use, therefore, NATDP had other
factors in mind.  ZIDAR noted two factors that influenced the quality of
the images:  1 the inherent quality of the original and 2 the amount of
size reduction on the pages.

The Carver papers were selected because they are informative and visually
interesting, treat a single subject, and are valuable in their own right.
The images were scanned and divided into logical records by SAIC, then
delivered, and loaded onto NATDPs system, where bibliographic
information taken directly from the images was added.  Scanning was
completed in summer 1991 and by the end of summer 1992 the disk was
scheduled to be publisheW.

KILYOVNH VMXLFMGVIVW WFIRMT KILXVHHRMT RMXOFWVW GSV ULOOLDRMT:  YVXZFHV
GSV NRXILURON HXZMMRMT SZW GL YV WLMV RM Z YZGXS, ZWQFHGNVMG ULI
RMWRERWFZO KZTV EZIRZGRLMH DZH MLG KLHHRYOV.  GSV UIZNV HRAV EZIRVW LM
ZXXLFMG LU GSV MZGFIV LU GSV NZGVIRZO, ZMW GSVIVULIV HLNV LU GSV UIZNVH
DVIV NRHHVW DSROV LGSVIH DVIV QFHG KZIGRZO UIZNVH.  GSV LMOB DZB GL TL
YZXP ZMW XZKGFIV GSRH NZGVIRZO DZH GL KIRMG LFG GSV KZTV DRGS GSV
