digital imagery POB  The place of electronic tools in the library of
the future  The uses of images and an image library  Primary input from
preservation microfilm  Features distinguishing POB from CXP and key
hypotheses guiding POB  Use of vendor selection process to facilitate
organizational work  Criteria for selecting vendor  Finalists and
results of process for Yale  Key factor distinguishing vendors 
Components, design principles, and some estimated costs of POB  Role of
preservation materials in developing imaging market  Factors affecting
quality and cost  Factors affecting the usability of complex documents
in image form 


Donald WATERS, head of the Systems Office, Yale University Library,
reported on the progress of a master plan for a project at Yale to
convert microfilm to digital imagery, Project Open Book POB.  Stating
that POB was in an advanced stage of planning, WATERS detailed, in
particular, the process of selecting a vendor partner and several key
issues under discussion as Yale prepares to move into the project itself.
He commented first on the vision that serves as the context of POB and
then described its purpose and scope.

WATERS sees the library of the future not necessarily as an electronic
library but as a place that generates, preserves, and improves for its
clients ready access to both intellectual and physical recorded
knowledge.  Electronic tools must find a place in the library in the
context of this vision.  Several roles for electronic tools include
serving as:  indirect sources of electronic knowledge or as "finWRMT"
ZRWH GSV LMORMV XZGZOLTFVH, GSV ZIGRXOVOVEVO RMWRXVH, IVTRHGVIH ULI
WLXFNVMGH ZMW ZIXSREVH WRIVXG HLFIXVH LU IVXLIWVW PMLDOVWTV UFOOGVCG
RNZTVH ZMW EZIRLFH PRMWH LU XLNKLFMW HLFIXVH LU IVXLIWVW PMLDOVWTV GSV
HLXZOOVW XLNKLFMW WLXFNVMGH LU SBKVIGVCG, NRCVW GVCG ZMW RNZTV,
