manifested, and several techniques to overcome them.

Fixed thresholding was the first technique described, suitable for
blackandwhite text, when the contrast does not vary over the page.  One
can have many different threshold levels in scanning devices.  Thus,
THOMA offered an example of extremely poor contrast, which resulted from
the fact that the stock was a heavy red.  This is the sort of image that
when microfilmed fails to provide any legibility whatsoever.  Fixed
thresholding is the way to change the blacktored contrast to the
desired blacktowhite contrast.

Other examples included material that had been browned or yellowed by
age.  This was also a case of contrast deficiency, and correction was
done by fixed thresholding.  A final example boils down to the same
thing, slight variability, but it is not significant.  Fixed thresholding
solves this problem as well.  The microfilm equivalent is certainly legible,
but it comes with dark areas.  Though THOMA did not have a slide of the
microfilm in this case, he did show the reproduced electronic image.

When one has variable contrast over a page or the lighting over the page
area varies, especially in the case where a bound volume has light
shining on it, the image must be proceHHVW YB Z WBMZNRX GSIVHSLOWRMT
HXSVNV.  LMV HXSVNV, WBMZNRX ZEVIZTRMT, ZOOLDH GSV GSIVHSLOW OVEVO MLG GL
YV URCVW YFG GL YV IVXLNKFGVW ULI VEVIB KRCVO UILN GSV MVRTSYLIRMT
XSZIZXGVIRHGRXH.  GSV MVRTSYLIH LU Z KRCVO WVGVINRMV DSVIV GSV GSIVHSLOW
HSLFOW YV HVG ULI GSZG KRCVO.

GSLNZ HSLDVW ZM VCZNKOV LU Z KZTV GSZG SZW YVVM NZWV WVURXRVMG YB Z
EZIRVGB LU GVXSMRJFVH, RMXOFWRMT Z YFIM NZIP, XLUUVV HGZRMH, ZMW Z BVOOLD
