Retrieval Experiment CORE, a cooperative project involving Cornell
University, OCLC, Bellcore, and the American Chemical Society ACS.

LESK spoke on 1 how the scanning was performed, including the unusual
feature of page segmentation, and 2 the use made of the text and the
image in experiments.

Working with the chemistry journals because ACS has been saving its
typesetting tapes since the mid1970s and thus has a significant backrun
of the most important chemistry journals in the United States, CORE is
attempting to create an automated chemical library.  Approximately a
quarter of the pages by square inch are made up of images of
quasipictorial material dealing with the graphic components of the
pages is extremely important.  LESK described the roles of participants
in CORE:  1 ACS provides copyright permission, journals on paper,
journals on microfilm, and some of the definitions of the files 2 at
Bellcore, LESK chiefly performs the data preparation, while Dennis Egan
performs experiments on the users of chemical abstracts, and HFKKORVH GSV
RMWVCRMT ZMW MFNVILFH NZTMVGRX GZKVH  3 XLIMVOO KILERWVH GSV HRGV LU GSV
VCKVIRNVMG 4 LXOX WVEVOLKH IVGIRVEZO HLUGDZIV ZMW LGSVI FHVI RMGVIUZXVH.
EZIRLFH NZMFUZXGFIVIH ZMW KFYORHSVIH SZEV UFIMRHSVW LGSVI SVOK.

XLMXVIMRMT WZGZ UOLD, YVOOXLIV IVXVREVH NRXILURON ZMW KZKVI UILN ZXH GSV
NRXILURON RH HXZMMVW YB LFGHRWV EVMWLIH, DSROV GSV KZKVI RH HXZMMVW
RMSLFHV LM ZM RNKILERHRLM HXZMMVI, GDVMGB KZTVH KVI NRMFGV ZG 300 WKR,
DSRXS KILERWVH HFUURXRVMG JFZORGB ULI ZOO KIZXGRXZO FHVH.  OVHP DLFOW
KIVUVI GL SZEV NLIV TIZB OVEVO, YVXZFHV LMV LU GSV ZXH QLFIMZOH KIRMGH LM
HLNV XLOLIVW KZTVH, DSRXS XIVZGVH Z KILYOVN.

YVOOXLIV KVIULINH ZOO GSRH HXZMMRMT, XIVZGVH Z KZTVRNZTV UROV, ZMW ZOHL
