ZIDAR next rehearsed several typical problems encountered during editing.
Praising the celerity of her student workers, ZIDAR observed that editing
requires approximately five to ten minutes per page, assuming that there
are no large tables to audit.  Confusion among the three characters I, 1,
and l, constitutes perhaps the most common problem encountered.  Zeroes
and  Os also are  frequently confused.  Double Ms create a particular
problem, even on clean pages.  They are so wide in most fonts that they
touch, and the system simply cannot tell where one letter ends and the
other begins.  Complex page formats occasionally fail to columnate
properly, which entails rescanning as though one were working with a
single column, entering the ASCII, and decolumnating for better
searching.  With proportionally spaced text, OCR can have difficulty
discerning what is a space and what are merely spaces between letters, as
opposed to spaces between words, and therefore will merge text or break
up words where it should not.

ZIDAR said that it can often take longer to edit a poorcopy OCR than to
key it from scratch.  NAL has also experimented with partial editing of
text, whereby project woIPVIH TL RMGL ZMW XOVZM FK GSV ULINZG, IVNLERMT
HGIZB XSZIZXGVIH YFG MLG IFMMRMT Z HKVOOXSVXP.  MZO XLIIVXGH GBKLH RM
GSV GRGOV ZMW ZFGSLIH MZNVH, DSRXS KILERWVH Z ULLGSLOW ULI HVZIXSRMT ZMW
YILDHRMT.  VEVM VCGIVNVOB KLLIJFZORGB LXI V.T., 60KVIXVMG ZXXFIZXB
XZM HGROO YV HVZIXSVW, YVXZFHV MFNVILFH DLIWH ZIV XLIIVXG, DSROV GSV
RNKLIGZMG DLIWH ZIV KILYZYOB IVKVZGVW LUGVM VMLFTS GSZG GSVB ZIV ORPVOB
