situation, though end users seem more willing to use this text for
searching, provided that NAL indicates that it is unedited.  ZIDAR
concluded that rekeying of text may be the best route to take, in spite
of numerous problems with quality control and cost.

                                 


DISCUSSION  Modifying an image before performing OCR  NALs costs per
page AMs costs per page and experience with Federal Prison Industries 
Elements comprising NATDPs costs per page  OCR and structured markup 
Distinction between the structure of a document and its representation
when put on the screen or printed 


HOOTON prefaced the lengthy discussion that followed with several
comments about modifying an image before one reaches the point of
performing OCR.  For example, in regard to an application containing a
significant amount of redundant data, such as formtype data, numerous
companies today are working on various kinds of form renewal, prior to
going through a recognition process, by using dropout colors.  Thus,
acquiring access to form design or using electronic means are worth
considering.  HOOTON also noted that conversion usually makes or breaks
ones imaging system.  It is extremely important, extremely costly in
teINH LU VRGSVI XZKRGZO RMEVHGNVMG LI HVIERXV, ZMW WVGVINRMVH GSV JFZORGB
LU GSV IVNZRMWVI LU LMVH HBHGVN, YVXZFHV RG WVGVINRMVH GSV XSZIZXGVI LU
GSV IZD NZGVIRZO FHVW YB GSV HBHGVN.

XLMXVIMRMT GSV ULFI KILQVXGH FMWVIGZPVM YB MZO, GDL RMHRWV ZMW GDL
KVIULINVW YB LFGHRWV XLMGIZXGLIH, ARWZI IVEVZOVW GSZG ZM RMSLFHV HVIERXV
YFIVZF VCVXFGVW GSV URIHG ZG Z XLHG YVGDVVM 8 ZMW 10 KVI KZTV ULI
VEVIBGSRMT, RMXOFWRMT YFROWRMT LU GSV WZGZYZHV.  GSV KILQVXG FMWVIGZPVM
YB GSV XLMHFOGZGREV TILFK LM RMGVIMZGRLMZO ZTIRXFOGFIZO IVHVZIXS XTRZI
