
SPERBERGMcQUEEN discussed the variety of forms of formal grammars,
implicit and explicit, as applied to text, and their capabilities.  He
argued that these grammars correspond to different models of text that
different developers have.  For example, one implicit model of the text
is that there is no internal structure, but just one thing after another,
a few characters and then perhaps a starttitle command, and then a few
more characters and an endtitle command.  SPERBERGMcQUEEN also
distinguished several kinds of text that have a sort of hierarchical
structure that is not very well defined, which, typically, corresponds
to grammars that are not very well defined, as well as hierarchies that
are very well defined e.g., the Thesaurus Linguae Graecae and extremely
complicated things such as SGML, which handle strictly hierarchical data
very nicely.

SPERBERGMcQUEEN conceded that one other model not illustrated on his two
displays was the model of text as a bitmapped image, an image of a page,
and confessed to having been converted to a limited extent by the
Workshop to the view that electronic images constitute a promising,
probably superior alternative to microfilming.  But he was not convinced
that electronic images represent a serious attempt to represent text in
electronic form.  Many of their problems stem from the fact that they are
not direct attempts to represent the text but attempts to represent the
page, thus making them representations of representations.

In this situation of increasingly complicated textual information and tSV
MVVW GL XLMGILO GSZG XLNKOVCRGB RM Z FHVUFO DZB DSRXS YVTH GSV JFVHGRLM
LU GSV MVVW ULI TLLW GVCGFZO TIZNNZIH, LMV SZH GSV RMGILWFXGRLM LU HTNO.
DRGS HTNO, LMV XZM WVEVOLK HKVXRURX WLXFNVMGGBKV WVXOZIZGRLMH
ULI HKVXRURX GVCG GBKVH LI, ZH DRGS GSV GVR, ZGGVNKGH GL TVMVIZGV
