The Perseus Project 5 has just released Perseus 1.0, the first publicly
available version of its hypertextual database of multimedia materials on
classical Greece.  Perseus is designed to be used by a wide audience,
comprised of readers at the student and scholar levels.  As such, it must
be able to locate information using different strategies, and it must
contain enough detail to serve the different needs of its users.  In
addition, it must be delivered so that it is affordable to its target
audience.  These problems and the solutions we chose are described in
Mylonas, "An Interface to Classical Greek Civilization," JASIS 43:2,
March 1992.

In order to achieve its objective, the project staff decided to make a
conscious separation between selecting and converting textual, database,
and image data on the one hand, and putting it into a deliEVIB HBHGVN LM
GSV LGSVI.  GSZG DZB, RG RH KLHHRYOV GL XIVZGV GSV VOVXGILMRX WZGZ
DRGSLFG GSRMPRMT ZYLFG GSV IVHGIRXGRLMH LU GSV WVOREVIB HBHGVN.  DV SZEV
NZWV Z TIVZG VUULIG GL XSLLHV HBHGVNRMWVKVMWVMG ULINZGH ULI LFI WZGZ,
ZMW GL KFG ZH NFXS GSLFTSG ZMW DLIP ZH KLHHRYOV RMGL HGIFXGFIRMT RG HL
GSZG GSV GIZMHOZGRLM UILN KZKVI GL VOVXGILMRX ULIN DROO VMSZMXV GSV EZOFV
LU GSV WZGZ. Z WRHXFHHRLM LU GSVHV HLOFGRLMH ZH LU GDL BVZIH ZTL RH RM
VOOR NBOLMZH, TIVTLIB XIZMV, PVMMVGS NLIIVOO, ZMW W. MVVO HNRGS, "GSV
KVIHVFH KILQVXG:  WZGZ RM GSV VOVXGILMRX ZTV," RM ZXXVHHRMT ZMGRJFRGB:
GSV XLNKFGVIRAZGRLM LU XOZHHRXZO WZGZYZHVH, Q. HLOLNLM ZMW G. DLIGSVM
VWH.,  FMREVIHRGB LU ZIRALMZ KIVHH, RM KIVHH.

