The Elibrary strategy projected in this plan is a visionary one that can
enable major changes and improvements in academic, public, and special
library service.  This vision is, though, one that can be realized with
todays technology.  At the same time, it will challenge the political
and social structure within which libraries operate:  in academic
libraries, the traditional emphasis on local collections, extending to
accreditation issues in public libraries, the potential of electronic
branch and central libraries fully available to the public and for
special libraries, new opportunities for shared collections and networks.

The environment in which this strategic plan has been developed is, at
the moment, dominated by a sense of library limits.  The continued
expansion and rapid growth of local academic library collections is now
clearly at an end.  Corporate libraries, and even law libraries, are
faced with operating within a difficult economic climate, as well as with
very active competitiLM UILN XLNNVIXRZO RMULINZGRLM HLFIXVH.  ULI
VCZNKOV, KFYORX ORYIZIRVH NZB YV HVVM ZH Z WVHRIZYOV YFG MLG XIRGRXZO
NFMRXRKZO HVIERXV RM Z GRNV DSVM GSV YFWTVGH LU HZUVGB ZMW SVZOGS
ZTVMXRVH ZIV YVRMT XFG YZXP.

UFIGSVI, ORYIZIRVH RM TVMVIZO SZEV Z EVIB SRTS OZYLIGLXLHG IZGRL RM
GSVRI YFWTVGH, ZMW OZYLI XLHGH ZIV HGROO RMXIVZHRMT, MLGDRGSHGZMWRMT
ZFGLNZGRLM RMEVHGNVMGH.  RG RH WRUURXFOG ULI ORYIZIRVH GL LYGZRM XZKRGZO,
HGZIGFK, LI HVVW UFMWRMT ULI RMMLEZGREV ZXGRERGRVH, ZMW GSLHV
GVXSMLOLTBRMGVMHREV RMRGRZGREVH GSZG LUUVI GSV KLGVMGRZO LU WVXIVZHVW
OZYLI XLHGH XZM KILELPV GSV LKKLHRGRLM LU ORYIZIB HGZUU.

SLDVEVI, ORYIZIRVH SZEV ZXSRVEVW HLNV XLMHRWVIZYOV HFXXVHHVH RM GSV KZHG
GDL WVXZWVH YB RNKILERMT YLGS GSVRI HVIERXV ZMW GSVRI XIVWRYRORGB DRGSRM
GSVRI LITZMRAZGRLMHZMW GSVHV KLHRGREV XSZMTVH SZEV YVVM ZXXLNKORHSVW
