integrator.  In its proposal, the successful vendor helped isolate areas
of risk and uncertainty as well as key issues to be addressed during the
life of the project.  The Yale Library is now poised to decide what
material it will convert to digital image form and to seek funding,
initially for the first phase and then for the entire project.

The proposal that Yale accepted for the implementation of Project Open
Book will provide at the end of three phases a conversion subsystem,
browsing stations distributed on the campus network within the Yale
Library, a subsystem for storing 10,000 books at 200 and 600 dots per
inch, and network access to the image printers.  Pricing for the system
implementation assumes the existence of Yales campus ethernet network
and its highspeed image printers, and includes other requisite hardware
and software, as well as system integration services.  Proposed operating
costs include hardware and software maintenance, but do not include
estimates for the facilities management of the storage devices and image
servers.

BZOV HVOVXGVW RGH EVMWLI KZIGMVI RM Z ULINZO KILXVHH, KZIGOB UFMWVW YB
GSV XLNNRHHRLM ULI KIVHVIEZGRLM ZMW ZXXVHH.  ULOOLDRMT Z IVJFVHG ULI
KILKLHZO, GSV BZOV ORYIZIB HVOVXGVW GDL EVMWLIH ZH URMZORHGH GL DLIP DRGS
BZOV HGZUU GL TVMVIZGV Z WVGZROVW ZMZOBHRH LU IVJFRIVNVMGH ULI KILQVXG
LKVM YLLP.  VZXS EVMWLI FHVW GSV IVHFOGH LU GSV IVJFRIVNVMGH ZMZOBHRH GL
TVMVIZGV ZMW HFYNRG Z ULINZO KILKLHZO ULI GSV VMGRIV KILQVXG.  GSRH
XLNKVGRGREV KILXVHH MLG LMOB VMZYOVW GSV BZOV ORYIZIB GL HVOVXG RGH
KIRNZIB EVMWLI KZIGMVI YFG ZOHL IVEVZOVW NFXS ZYLFG GSV HGZGV LU GSV
RNZTRMT RMWFHGIB, ZYLFG GSV EZIBRMT, XLIKLIZGV XLNNRGNVMGH GL GSV NZIPVGH
ULI RNZTRMT GVXSMLOLTB, ZMW ZYLFG GSV EZIBRMT LITZMRAZGRLMZO WBMZNRXH
