analyzed, but attendees could glean an impression from several of the
showandtell presentations.  The Perseus and American Memory examples
demonstrated recently published disks, while the descriptions of the
IBYCUS version of the Papers of George Washington and ChadwyckHealeys
Patrologia Latina Database PLD told of disks to come.  According to
Eric CALALUCA, PLDs principal focus has been on converting JacquesPaul
Mignes definitive collection of Latin texts to machinereadable form.
Although everyone could share the network advocates enthusiasm for an
online future, the possibility of rolling up ones sleeves for a session
with a CDROM containing both textual materials and a powerful retrieval
engine made the disk seem an appealing vessel indeed.  The overall
discussion suggested that the transition from CDROM to online networked
access may prove far slower and more difficult than has been anticipated.


WHO ARE THE USERS AND WHAT DO THEY DO?

Although concerned with the technicalities of production, the Workshop
never lost sight of the purposes and uses of electronic versions of
textual materials.  As noted above, those interested in imaging discussed
the problematical matter of digital preservation, while the TEI proponents
described how machinereadable texts can be used in research.  This latter
topic received thorough treatment in the paper read by Avra MICHELSON.
She placed the phenomenon of electronic texts within the context of
broader trends in information technology and scholarly communication.

Among other things, MICHELSON described online conferences that
represent a vigorous and important intellectual forum for certain
disciplines.  Internet now carries more than 700 conferences, with about
80 percent of these devoted to topics in the social sciences and the
humanities.  Other scholars use online networks for "distance learning."
Meanwhile, there has been a tremendous growth in enduser computing
professors today are less likely than their predecessors to ask the
campus computer center to process their data.  Electronic texts are one
key to these sophisticated applications, MICHELSON reported, and more and
more scholars in the humanities now work in an online environment.
Toward the end of the Workshop, Michael LESK presented a corollary to
MICHELSONs talk, reporting the results of an experiment that compared
the work of one group of chemistry students using traditional printed
texts and two groups using electronic sources.  The experiment
demonstrated that in the event one does not know what to read, one needs
the electronic systems the electronic systems hold no advantage at the
moment if one knows what to read, but neither do they impose a penalty.

DALY provided an anecdotal account of the revolutionizing impact of the
new technology on his previous methods of research in the field of classics.
His account, by extrapolation, served to illustrate in part the arguments
made by MICHELSON concerning the positive effects of the sudden and radical
transformation being wrought in the ways scholars work.

Susan VECCIA and Joanne FREEMAN delineated the use of electronic
materials outside the university.  The most interesting aspect of their
use, FREEMAN said, could be seen as a paradox:  teachers in elementary
and secondary schools requested access to primary source materials but,
at the same time, found that "primariness" itself made these materials
difficult for their students to use.


OTHER TOPICS

Marybeth PETERS reviewed copyright law in the United States and offered
advice during a lively discussion of this subject.  But uncertainty
remains concerning the price of copyright in a digital medium, because a
solution remains to be worked out concerning management and synthesis of
copyrighted and outofcopyright pieces of a database.

As moderator of the final session of the Workshop, Prosser GIFFORD directed
discussion to future courses of action and the potential role of LC in
advancing them.  Among the recommendations that emerged were the following:

      Workshop participants should 1 begin to think about working
     with image material, but structure and digitize it in such a
     way that at a later stage it can be interpreted into text, and
     2 find a common way to build text and images together so that
     they can be used jointly at some stage in the future, with
     appropriate network support, because that is how users will want
     to access these materials.  The Library might encourage attempts
     to bring together people who are working on texts and images.

      A network version of American Memory should be developed or
     consideration should be given to making the data in it
     available to people interested in doing network multimedia.
     Given the current dearth of digital data that is appealing and
     unencumbered by extremely complex rights problems, developing a
     network version of American Memory could do much to help make
     network multimedia a reality.

      Concerning the thorny issue of electronic deposit, LC should
     initiate a catalytic process in terms of distributed
     responsibility, that is, bring together the distributed
     organizations and set up a study group to look at all the
     issues related to electronic deposit and see where we as a
     nation should move.  For example, LC might attempt to persuade
     one major library in each state to deal with its state
     equivalent publisher, which might produce a cooperative project
     that would be equitably distributed around the country, and one
     in which LC would be dealing with a minimal number of publishers
     and minimal copyright problems.  LC must also deal with the
     concept of online publishing, determining, among other things,
     how serials such as OJCCT might be deposited for copyright.

      Since a number of projects are planning to carry out
     preservation by creating digital images that will end up in
     online or nearline storage at some institution, LC might play
     a helpful role, at least in the near term, by accelerating how
     to catalog that information into the Research Library Information
     Network RLIN and then into OCLC, so that it would be accessible.
     This would reduce the possibility of multiple institutions digitizing
     the same work.


CONCLUSION

The Workshop was valuable because it brought together partisans from
various groups and provided an occasion to compare goals and methods.
The more committed partisans frequently communicate with others in their
groups, but less often across group boundaries.  The Workshop was also
valuable to attendeesincluding those involved with American Memorywho
came less committed to particular approaches or concepts.  These
attendees learned a great deal, and plan to select and employ elements of
imaging, textcoding, and networked distribution that suit their
respective projects and purposes.

Still, reality rears its ugly head:  no breakthrough has been achieved.
On the imaging side, one confronts a proliferation of competing
datainterchange standards and a lack of consensus on the role of digital
facsimiles in preservation.  In the realm of machinereadable texts, one
encounters a reasonably mature standard but methodological difficulties
and high costs.  These latter problems, of course, represent a special
impediment to the desire, as it is sometimes expressed in the popular
press, "to put the contents of the Library of Congress on line."  In
the words of one participant, there was "no solution to the economic
problemsthe projects that are out there are surviving, but it is going
to be a lot of work to transform the information industry, and so far the
investment to do that is not forthcoming" LESK, per litteras.


                                 


                               PROCEEDINGS


WELCOME


GIFFORD  Origin of Workshop in current Librarians desire to make LCs
XLOOVXGRLMH NLIV DRWVOB ZEZROZYOV  WVHRWVIZGZ ZIRHRMT UILN GSV KILHKVXG
LU TIVZGVI RMGVIXLMMVXGVWMVHH 


ZUGVI DVOXLNRMT KZIGRXRKZMGH LM YVSZOU LU GSV ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH,
ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB ZN, ZMW GSV MZGRLMZO WVNLMHGIZGRLM OZY, KILHHVI
TRUULIW, WRIVXGLI ULI HXSLOZIOB KILTIZNH, ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH, OLXZGVW
GSV LIRTRM LU GSV DLIPHSLK LM VOVXGILMRX GVCGH RM Z XLMEVIHZGRLM SV SZW
SZW XLMHRWVIZYOB NLIV GSZM Z BVZI ZTL DRGS XZIO UOVRHXSSZFVI XLMXVIMRMT
HLNV LU GSV RHHFVH UZXVW YB ZN.  LM GSV ZHHFNKGRLM GSZG MFNVILFH LGSVI
KVLKOV DVIV ZHPRMT GSV HZNV JFVHGRLMH, GSV WVXRHRLM DZH NZWV GL YIRMT
GLTVGSVI ZH NZMB LU GSVHV KVLKOV ZH KLHHRYOV GL ZHP GSV HZNV JFVHGRLMH
GLTVGSVI.  RM Z WVVKVI HVMHV, TRUULIW HZRW, GSV LIRTRM LU GSV DLIPHSLK
OZB RM GSV WVHRIV LU GSV XFIIVMG ORYIZIRZM LU XLMTIVHH, QZNVH S.
YROORMTGLM, GL NZPV GSV XLOOVXGRLMH LU GSV ORYIZIB, VHKVXRZOOB GSLHV
LUUVIRMT FMRJFV LI FMFHFZO GVHGRNLMB LM ZHKVXGH LU GSV ZNVIRXZM
VCKVIRVMXV, ZEZROZYOV GL Z NFXS DRWVI XRIXOV LU FHVIH GSZM GSLHV UVD
KVLKOV DSL XZM XLNV GL DZHSRMTGLM GL FHV GSVN.  GSRH NVZMG GSZG GSV
VNKSZHRH LU ZN, UILN GSV LFGHVG, SZH YVVM LM ZIXSREZO XLOOVXGRLMH LU GSV
YZHRX NZGVIRZO, ZMW LM NZPRMT GSVHV XLOOVXGRLMH GSVNHVOEVH ZEZROZYOV,
IZGSVI GSZM HVOVXGVW LI SVZEROB VWRGVW KILWFXGH.

UILN ZNH VNKSZHRH ULOOLDVW GSV JFVHGRLMH DRGS DSRXS GSV DLIPHSLK YVTZM:
DSL DROO FHV GSVHV NZGVIRZOH, ZMW RM DSZG ULIN DROO GSVB DRHS GL FHV
