large conversion projects as well, such as American Memory.

While scholars have been making converted text available to one another,
typically on disk or on CDROM, the clear trend is toward making these
resources available through research and education networks.  Thus, the
American and French Research on the Treasury of the French Language
ARTFL and the Dante Project are already available on Internet.
MICHELSON summarized this section on interpretation and analysis by
noting that:  1 increasing numbers of humanities scholars in the library
community are recognizing the importance to the advancement of
scholarship of retrospective conversion of source materials in the arts
and humanities and 2 there is a growing realization that making the
sources available on research and education networks maximizes their
usefulness for the analysis performed by humanities scholars.

The fourth process of scholarly communication is dissemination of
research findings, that is, publication.  Scholars are using existing
research and education networks to engineer a new type of publication:
scholarlycontrolled journals that are electronically produced and
disseminated.  Although such journals are still emerging as a
communication format, their number has grown, from approximately twelve
to thirtysix during the past year July 1991 to June 1992.  Most of
these electronic scholarly journals are devoted to topics in the
humanities.  As with network conferences, scholarly enthusiasm for these
electronic journals stems from the mediums unique ability to advance
scholarship in a way that no other medium can do by supporting global
feedback and interchange, practically in real time, early in the research
process.  Beyond scholarly journals, MICHELSON remarked the delivery of
commercial fulltext products, such as articles in professional journals,
newsletters, magazines, wire services, and reference sources.  These are
being delivered via online local library catalogues, especially through
CDROMs.  Furthermore, according to MICHELSON, there is general optimism
that the copyright and fees issues impeding the delivery of full text on
existing research and education networks soon will be resolved.

The final process of scholarly communication is curriculum development
and instruction, and this involves the use of computer information
technologies in two areas.  The firHG RH GSV WVEVOLKNVMG LU
XLNKFGVILIRVMGVW RMHGIFXGRLMZO GLLOH, DSRXS RMXOFWVH HRNFOZGRLMH,
NFOGRNVWRZ ZKKORXZGRLMH, ZMW XLNKFGVI GLLOH GSZG ZIV FHVW GL ZHHRHG RM
GSV ZMZOBHRH LU HLFIXVH RM GSV XOZHHILLN, VGX.  GSV KVIHVFH KILQVXG, Z
WZGZYZHV GSZG KILERWVH Z NFOGRNVWRZ XFIIRXFOFN LM XOZHHRXZO TIVVP
XRERORAZGRLM, RH Z TLLW VCZNKOV LU GSV DZB RM DSRXS VMGRIV XFIIRXFOZ ZIV
YVRMT IVXZHG FHRMT RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTRVH.  RG RH ZMGRXRKZGVW GSZG GSV
XFIIVMG WRUURXFOGB RM VCXSZMTRMT VOVXGILMRXZOOB XLNKFGVIYZHVW
RMHGIFXGRLMZO HLUGDZIV, DSRXS RM GFIM NZPVH RG WRUURXFOG ULI LMV HXSLOZI
GL YFROW FKLM GSV DLIP LU LGSVIH, DROO YV IVHLOEVW YVULIV GLL OLMT.
HGZMWZOLMV XFIIRXFOZI ZKKORXZGRLMH GSZG RMELOEV VOVXGILMRX GVCG DROO YV
HSZIZYOV GSILFTS MVGDLIPH, IVRMULIXRMT GSVRI HRTMRURXZMXV ZH RMGVOOVXGFZO
KILWFXGH ZH DVOO ZH RMHGIFXGRLMZO GLLOH.

GSV HVXLMW ZHKVXG LU VOVXGILMRX OVZIMRMT RMELOEVH GSV FHV LU IVHVZIXS ZMW
VWFXZGRLM MVGDLIPH ULI WRHGZMXV VWFXZGRLM KILTIZNH.  HFXS KILTIZNH
RMGVIZXGREVOB ORMP GVZXSVIH DRGS HGFWVMGH RM TVLTIZKSRXZOOB HXZGGVIVW
OLXZGRLMH ZMW IVOB LM GSV ZEZROZYRORGB LU VOVXGILMRX RMHGIFXGRLMZO
IVHLFIXVH.  WRHGZMXV VWFXZGRLM KILTIZNH ZIV TZRMRMT DRWV ZKKVZO ZNLMT
HGZGV WVKZIGNVMGH LU VWFXZGRLM YVXZFHV LU GSVRI WVNLMHGIZGVW XZKZXRGB GL
YIRMT ZWEZMXVW HKVXRZORAVW XLFIHV DLIP ZMW ZM ZIIZB LU VCKVIGH GL NZMB
XOZHHILLNH.  Z IVXVMG IVKLIG ULFMW GSZG ZG OVZHG 32 HGZGVH LKVIZGVW ZG
OVZHG LMV HGZGVDRWV MVGDLIP ULI VWFXZGRLM RM 1991, DRGS MVGDLIPH FMWVI
WVEVOLKNVMG RM NZMB LU GSV IVNZRMRMT HGZGVH.

NRXSVOHLM HFNNZIRAVW GSRH HVXGRLM YB MLGRMT GDL HGIRPRMT XSZMTVH GZPRMT
