did not suffer from this anxiety, several older students feared that they
were computerilliterate, an assumption that became selffulfilling when
they searched for something but failed to find it.  FREEMAN said she
believed that some teachers also fear computer resources, because they
believe they lack complete control.  FREEMAN related the example of
teachers shooing away students because it was not their time to use the
system.  This was a case in which the situation had to be extremely
structured so that the teachers would not feel that they had lost their
grasp on what the system contained.

A final question raised by FREEMAN concerned access and availability of
the system.  She noted the occasional existence of a gap in communication
between school librarians and teachers.  Often AM sits in a school
library and the librarian is the person responsible for monitoring the
system.  Teachers do not always take into their world new library
resources about which the librarian is excited.  Indeed, at the sites
where AM had been used most effectively within a library, the librarian
was required to go to specific teachers and instruct them in its use.  As
a result, several AM sites will have inservice sessions over a summer,
in the hope that perhaps, with a more individualized link, teachers will
be more likely to use the resource.

A related issue in the school context concerned the number of
workstations available at any one location.  Centralization of equipment
at the district leEVO, DRGS GVZXSVIH RMERGVW GL WLDMOLZW GSRMTH ZMW DZOP
ZDZB DRGS GSVN, KILEVW FMHFXXVHHUFO YVXZFHV GSV SLFIH GSVHV LUURXVH DVIV
LKVM DVIV ZOHL HXSLLO SLFIH.

ZMLGSVI RHHFV DZH SZIWDZIV.  ZH EVXXRZ LYHVIEVW, Z IZMTV LU HRGVH VCRHGH,
HLNV GVXSMLOLTRXZOOB ZWEZMXVW ZMW LGSVIH VHHVMGRZOOB ZXJFRIRMT GSVRI
URIHG XLNKFGVI ULI GSV KIRNZIB KFIKLHV LU FHRMT RG RM XLMQFMXGRLM DRGS
ZNH GVHGRMT.  FHVIH ZG GVXSMLOLTRXZOOB HLKSRHGRXZGVW HRGVH DZMG VEVM
NLIV HLKSRHGRXZGVW SZIWDZIV, HL GSZG GSVB XZM KVIULIN VEVM NLIV
HLKSRHGRXZGVW GZHPH DRGS GSV NZGVIRZOH RM ZN.  YFG LMXV GSVB ZXJFRIV Z
MVDVI KRVXV LU SZIWDZIV, GSVB NFHG OVZIM SLD GL FHV GSZG ZOHL ZG ZM
