materials digitized and stored on the imagefiling system are cataloged
in the online catalogue.  In fact, a record for each of these electronic
books is stored in the RLIN database so that a record exists of what is
in the digital library throughout standard catalogue procedures.  In the
future, researchers working from their own workstations in their offices,
or their networks, will have accesswherever they might bethrough a
request server being built into the new digital library.  A second
assumption is that the preferred means of finding the material will be by
looking through a catalogue.  PERSONIUS described the scanning process,
which uses a prototype scanner being developed by Xerox and which scans a
very high resolution image at great speed.  Another significant feature,
because this is a preservation application, is the placing of the pages
that fall apart one for one on the platen.  Ordinarily, a scanner could
be used with some sort of a document feeder, but because of this
application that is not feasible.  Further, because CLASS is a
preservation application, after the paper replacement is made there, a
very careful quality control check is performed.  An original book is
compared to the printed copy and verification is made, before proceeding,
that all of the image, all of the information, has been captured.  Then,
a new library book is produced:  The printed images are rebound by a
commercial binder and a new book is returned to the shelf.
Significantly, the books returned to the library shelves are beautiful
and useful replacements on acidfree paper that should last a long time,
in effect, the equivalent of preservation photocopies.  Thus, the project
has a library of digital books.  In essence, CLASS is scanning and
storing books as 600 dotperinch bitmapped images, compressed using
Group 4 CCITT i.e., the French acronym for International Consultative
Committee for Telegraph and Telephone compression.  They are stored as
TIFF files on an optical filing system that is composed of a database
used for searching and locating the books and an optical jukebox that
stores 64 twelveinch platters.  A veryhighresolution printed copy of
these books at 600 dots per inch is created, using a Xerox DocuTech
printer to make the paper replacements on acidfree paper.

PERSONIUS maintained that the CLASS Project presents an opportunity to
introduce people to books as digital images by using a paper medium.
Books are returned to the shelves while people are also given the ability
to print on demandto make their own copies of books.  PERSONIUS
distributed copies of an engineering journal published by engineering
students at Cornell around 1900 as an example of what a printondemand
copy of material might be like.  This very cheap copy would be available
to people to use for their own research purposes and would bridge the gap
between an electronic work and the paper that readers like to have.
PERSONIUS then attempted to illustrate a very early prototype of
networked access to this digital library.  Xerox Corporation has
developed a prototype of a view station that can send images across the
network to be viewed.

The particular library brought down for demonstration contained two
mathematics books.  CLASS is developing and will spend the next year
developing an application that allows people at workstations to browse
the books.  Thus, CLASS is developing a browsing tool, on the assumption
that users do not want to rVZW ZM VMGRIV YLLP UILN Z DLIPHGZGRLM, YFG
DLFOW KIVUVI GL YV ZYOV GL OLLP GSILFTS ZMW WVXRWV RU GSVB DLFOW ORPV GL
SZEV Z KIRMGVW XLKB LU RG.

                                 


WRHXFHHRLM  IV IVGIRVEZO HLUGDZIV  "WRTRGZO UROV XLKBIRTSG"  HXZMMRMT
IZGV WFIRMT KILWFXGRLM  ZFGLHVTNVMGZGRLM  XIRGVIRZ VNKOLBVW RM
HVOVXGRMT YLLPH ULI HXZMMRMT  XLNKIVHHRLM ZMW WVXLNKIVHHRLM LU RNZTVH 
LXI MLG KIVXOFWVW 


WFIRMT GSV JFVHGRLMZMWZMHDVI KVIRLW GSZG ULOOLDVW SVI KIVHVMGZGRLM,
KVIHLMRFH NZWV GSVHV ZWWRGRLMZO KLRMGH:

      IV IVGIRVEZO HLUGDZIV, XLIMVOO RH WVEVOLKRMT Z FMRCYZHVW HVIEVI
     ZH DVOO ZH XORVMGH ULI GSV HVIEVI GSZG HFKKLIG NFOGRKOV KOZGULINH
     NZXRMGLHS, RYN ZMW HFM DLIPHGZGRLMH, RM GSV SLKV GSZG KVLKOV UILN
     ZMB LU GSLHV KOZGULINH DROO IVGIRVEV YLLPH Z UFIGSVI LKVIZGRMT
     ZHHFNKGRLM RH GSZG HGZMWZIW RMGVIUZXVH DROO YV FHVW ZH NFXS ZH
     KLHHRYOV, DSVIV HGZMWZIWH XZM YV KFG RM KOZXV, YVXZFHV XOZHH
     XLMHRWVIH GSRH IVGIRVEZO HLUGDZIV Z ORYIZIB ZKKORXZGRLM ZMW DLFOW
     ORPV GL YV ZYOV GL OLLP ZG NZGVIRZO MLG LMOB ZG XLIMVOO YFG ZG LGSVI
     RMHGRGFGRLMH.

      GSV KSIZHV "WRTRGZO UROV XLKBIRTSG YB XLIMVOO FMREVIHRGB" DZH
     ZWWVW ZG GSV ZWERXV LU XLIMVOOH OVTZO HGZUU DRGS GSV XZEVZG GSZG RG
     KILYZYOB DLFOW MLG SLOW FK RM XLFIG.  XLIMVOO WLVH MLG DZMG KVLKOV
     GL XLKB RGH YLLPH ZMW HVOO GSVN YFG DLFOW ORPV GL PVVK GSVN
     ZEZROZYOV ULI FHV RM Z ORYIZIB VMERILMNVMG ULI ORYIZIB KFIKLHVH.

      RM KILWFXGRLM GSV HXZMMVI XZM HXZM ZYLFG 300 KZTVH KVI SLFI,
     XZKGFIRMT 600 WLGH KVI RMXS.

      GSV CVILC HLUGDZIV SZH UROGVIH GL HXZM SZOUGLMV NZGVIRZO ZMW ZELRW
     GSV NLRIV KZGGVIMH GSZG LXXFI DSVM SZOUGLMV NZGVIRZO RH HXZMMVW.
     CVILC SZH YVVM DLIPRMT LM SZIWDZIV ZMW HLUGDZIV GSZG DLFOW VMZYOV
     GSV HXZMMVI RGHVOU GL IVXLTMRAV GSRH HRGFZGRLM ZMW WVZO DRGS RG
     ZKKILKIRZGVOBZ PRMW LU ZFGLHVTNVMGZGRLM GSZG DLFOW VMZYOV GSV
     HXZMMVI GL SZMWOV SZOUGLMV NZGVIRZO ZH DVOO ZH GVCG LM Z HRMTOV KZTV.

      GSV YLLPH HFYQVXGVW GL GSV VOZYLIZGV KILXVHH WVHXIRYVW ZYLEV DVIV
     HVOVXGVW YVXZFHV XOZHH RH Z KIVHVIEZGRLM KILQVXG, DRGS GSV URIHG 500
     YLLPH HVOVXGVW XLNRMT UILN XLIMVOOH NZGSVNZGRXH XLOOVXGRLM, YVXZFHV
     GSVB DVIV HGROO YVRMT SVZEROB FHVW ZMW YVXZFHV, ZOGSLFTS GSVB DVIV
     RM MVVW LU KIVHVIEZGRLM, GSV NZGSVNZGRXH ORYIZIB ZMW GSV NZGSVNZGRXH
     UZXFOGB DVIV FMXLNULIGZYOV SZERMT GSVN NRXILURONVW.  GSVB DZMGVW Z
     KIRMGVW XLKB.  GSFH, GSVHV YLLPH YVXZNV Z OLTRXZO XSLRXV ULI GSRH
     KILQVXG.  LGSVI YLLPH DVIV XSLHVM YB GSV KILQVXGH HVOVXGRLM XLNNRGGVVH
     ULI VCKVIRNVMGH DRGS GSV GVXSMLOLTB, ZH DVOO ZH GL NVVG Z WVNZMW LI MVVW.

      RNZTVH DROO YV WVXLNKIVHHVW YVULIV GSVB ZIV HVMG LEVI GSV ORMV ZG
     GSRH GRNV GSVB ZIV XLNKIVHHVW ZMW HVMG GL GSV RNZTV URORMT HBHGVN
     ZMW GSVM HVMG GL GSV KIRMGVI ZH XLNKIVHHVW RNZTVH GSVB ZIV IVGFIMVW
     GL GSV DLIPHGZGRLM ZH XLNKIVHHVW 600WKR RNZTVH ZMW GSV DLIPHGZGRLM
     WVXLNKIVHHVH ZMW HXZOVH GSVN ULI WRHKOZBZM RMVUURXRVMG DZB GL
     ZXXVHH GSV NZGVIRZO GSLFTS RG DLIPH JFRGV DVOO ULI KIRMGRMT ZMW
     LGSVI KFIKLHVH.

      XOZHH RH ZOHL WVXLNKIVHHRMT LM NZXRMGLHS ZMW RYN, Z HOLD KILXVHH
     IRTSG MLD.  VEVMGFZOOB, XLNKIVHHRLM ZMW WVXLNKIVHHRLM DROO GZPV
     KOZXV LM ZM RNZTV XLMEVIHRLM HVIEVI.  GIZWVLUUH DROO YV NZWV, YZHVW
     LM UFGFIV KVIULINZMXV GVHGRMT, XLMXVIMRMT DSVIV GSV UROV RH
     XLNKIVHHVW ZMW DSZG IVHLOFGRLM RNZTV RH HVMG.

      LXI SZH MLG YVVM KIVXOFWVW RNZTVH ZIV YVRMT HGLIVW GSZG SZEV YVVM
     HXZMMVW ZG Z SRTS IVHLOFGRLM, DSRXS KIVHFNZYOB DLFOW HFRG GSVN DVOO
     GL ZM LXI KILXVHH.  YVXZFHV GSV NZGVIRZO YVRMT HXZMMVW RH ZYLFG 100
     BVZIH LOW ZMW DZH KIRMGVW DRGS OVHHGSZMRWVZO GVXSMLOLTRVH, EVIB
     VZIOB ZMW KIVORNRMZIB GVHGH SZEV MLG KILWFXVW TLLW IVHFOGH.  YFG GSV
     KILQVXG RH XZKGFIRMT ZM RNZTV GSZG RH LU HFUURXRVMG IVHLOFGRLM GL YV
     HFYQVXGVW GL LXI RM GSV UFGFIV.  NLIVLEVI, GSV HBHGVN ZIXSRGVXGFIV
     ZMW GSV HBHGVN KOZM SZEV Z OLTRXZO KOZXV GL HGLIV ZM LXI RNZTV RU RG
     SZH YVVM XZKGFIVW.  YFG GSZG RH MLG YVRMT WLMV MLD.

                                 

HVHHRLM RRR.  WRHGIRYFGRLM, MVGDLIPH, ZMW MVGDLIPRMT:  LKGRLMH ULI
WRHHVNRMZGRLM


ARXS  RHHFVH KVIGZRMRMT GL XWILNH  LKGRLMH ULI KFYORHSRMT RM XWILN 


ILYVIG ARXS, HKVXRZO ZHHRHGZMG GL GSV ZHHLXRZGV ORYIZIRZM ULI HKVXRZO
KILQVXGH, ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH, ZMW NLWVIZGLI LU GSRH HVHHRLM, URIHG MLGVW
GSV YOVHHVW YFG HLNVDSZG ZDPDZIW XRIXFNHGZMXV LU SZERMT ULFI EVIB
WRHGRMTFRHSVW KVLKOV IVKIVHVMGRMT MVGDLIPH ZMW MVGDLIPRMT LI ZG OVZHG
OVZMRMT RM GSZG WRIVXGRLM, DSROV OZXPRMT ZMBLMV GL HKVZP UILN GSV
HGILMTVHG KLHHRYOV YZXPTILFMW RM XWILNH.  ARXS VCKIVHHVW GSV SLKV GSZG
NVNYVIH LU GSV ZFWRVMXV DLFOW QLRM GSV WRHXFHHRLM.  SV HGIVHHVW GSV
HFYGRGOV LU GSRH KZIGRXFOZI HVHHRLM, "LKGRLMH ULI WRHHVNRMZGRLM," ZMW,
XLMXVIMRMT XWILNH, GSV RNKLIGZMXV LU WVGVINRMRMT DSVM RG DLFOW YV DRHV
GL XLMHRWVI WRHHVNRMZGRLM RM XWILN EVIHFH MVGDLIPH.  Z HSLKKRMT ORHG LU
RHHFVH KVIGZRMRMT GL XWILNH RMXOFWVW:  GSV TILFMWH ULI HVOVXGRMT
XLNNVIXRZO KFYORHSVIH, ZMW RMSLFHV KFYORXZGRLM DSVIV KLHHRYOV EVIHFH
MLMKILURG LI TLEVIMNVMG KFYORXZGRLM.  Z HRNROZI ORHG ULI MVGDLIPH
RMXOFWVW:  WVGVINRMRMT DSVM LMV HSLFOW XLMHRWVI WRHHVNRMZGRLM GSILFTS Z
