produce a database of engineering courseware as well as the components
that can be used to develop new courseware.  In a number of the existing
applications, LYNCH said, the issue of reuse how much one can take apart
and reuse in other applications was not being well considered.  He also
raised the issue of active versus passive use, one aspect of which  is
how much information will be manipulated locally by users.  Most people,
he argued, may do a little browsing and then will wish to print.  LYNCH
was uncertain how these resources would be used by the vast majority of
users in the network environment.

LYNCH next said a few words about XWindows as a way of differentiating
between network access and networked information.  A number of the
applications demonstrated at the Workshop could be rewritten to use X
across the network, so that one could run them from any Xcapable device
a workstation, an X terminaland transact with a database across the
network.  Although this opens up access a little, assuming one has enough
network to handle it, it does not provide an interface to develop a
program that conveniently integrates information from multiple databases.
X is a viewing technology that has limits.  In a real sense, it is just a
graphical version of remote login across the network.  Xtype applications
represent only one step in the progression towards real accesH.

OBMXS MVCG WRHXFHHVW YZIIRVIH GL GSV WRHGIRYFGRLM LU MVGDLIPVW NFOGRNVWRZ
RMULINZGRLM.  GSV SVZIG LU GSV KILYOVN RH Z OZXP LU HGZMWZIWH GL KILERWV
GSV ZYRORGB ULI XLNKFGVIH GL GZOP GL VZXS LGSVI, IVGIRVEV RMULINZGRLM,
ZMW HSFUUOV RG ZILFMW UZRIOB XZHFZOOB.  ZG GSV NLNVMG, ORGGOV KILTIVHH RH
YVRMT NZWV LM HGZMWZIWH ULI MVGDLIPVW RMULINZGRLM ULI VCZNKOV, KIVHVMG
HGZMWZIWH WL MLG XLEVI RNZTVH, WRTRGZO ELRXV, ZMW WRTRGZO ERWVL.  Z
FHVUFO GLLO PRG LU VCXSZMTV ULINZGH ULI YZHRX GVCGH RH LMOB MLD YVRMT
ZHHVNYOVW.  GSV HBMXSILMRAZGRLM LU XLMGVMG HGIVZNH R.V., HBMXSILMRARMT Z
ELRXV GIZXP GL Z ERWVL GIZXP, VHGZYORHSRMT GVNKLIZO IVOZGRLMH YVGDVVM
WRUUVIVMG XLNKLMVMGH RM Z NFOGRNVWRZ LYQVXG XLMHGRGFGVH ZMLGSVI RHHFV
ULI MVGDLIPVW NFOGRNVWRZ GSZG RH QFHG YVTRMMRMT GL IVXVREV ZGGVMGRLM.

FMWVIOBRMT MVGDLIP KILGLXLOH ZOHL MVVW HLNV DLIP TLLW, IVZOGRNV
WVOREVIB KILGLXLOH LM GSV RMGVIMVG WL MLG BVG VCRHG.  RM OBMXSH ERVD,
SRTSOB RNKLIGZMG RM GSRH XLMGVCG RH GSV MLGRLM LU MVGDLIPVW WRTRGZO
LYQVXG RWH, GSV ZYRORGB LU LMV LYQVXG LM GSV MVGDLIP GL KLRMG GL ZMLGSVI
LYQVXG LI XLNKLMVMG GSVIVLU LM GSV MVGDLIP.  HVIRLFH YZMWDRWGS RHHFVH
