Maryland patrons.  This clientserver model also supports moving beyond
secondary content into primary content.  The notion of how one links
from secondary content to primary content, LARSEN said, represents a
fundamental problem that requires rigorous thought.  After noting
numerous network experiments in accessing fulltext materials, including
projects supporting the ordering of materials across the network, LARSEN
revisited the issue of transmitting highdensity, highresolution color
images across the network and the large amounts of bandwidth they
require.  He went on to address the bandwidth and synchronization
problems inherent in sending fullmotion video across the network.

LARSEN illustrated the tradeoff between volumes of data in bytes or
orders of magnitude and the potential usage of that data.  He discussed
transmission rates particularly, the time it takes to move various forms
of information, and what one could do with a network supporting
multigigabitpersecond transmission.  At the moment, the network
environment includes a composite of datatransmission requirements,
volumes and forms, going from steady to bursty highvolume and from
very slow to very fast.  This aggregate must be considered in the design,
construction, and operation of multigigabyte networks.

LARSENs objective is to use the networks and library systems now being
constructed to increase accesH GL IVHLFIXVH DSVIVEVI GSVB VCRHG, ZMW
GSFH, GL VELOEV GLDZIW ZM LMORMV VOVXGILMRX ERIGFZO ORYIZIB.

OZIHVM XLMXOFWVW YB LUUVIRMT Z HMZKHSLG LU XFIIVMG GIVMWH:  XLMGRMFRMT
TVLNVGIRX TILDGS RM MVGDLIP XZKZXRGB ZMW MFNYVI LU FHVIH HOLDVI
WVEVOLKNVMG LU ZKKORXZGRLMH ZMW TOZXRZO WVEVOLKNVMG ZMW ZWLKGRLM LU
HGZMWZIWH.  GSV XSZOOVMTV RH GL WVHRTM ZMW WVEVOLK VZXS MVD ZKKORXZGRLM
HBHGVN DRGS MVGDLIP ZXXVHH ZMW HXZOZYRORGB RM NRMW.

                                 

