scanning this step entails reviewing and organizing the material,
defining the contentswhat will constitute a record, what kinds of
fields will be captured in terms of author, title, etc. 3 perform a
certain amount of markup on the paper publications.  NAL performs this
task record by record, preparing work sheets or some other sort of
tracking material and designing descriptors and other enhancements to be
added to the data that will not be captured from the printed publication.
Part of this process also involves determining NATDPs file and directory
structure:  NATDP attempts to avoid putting more than approximately 100
images in a directory, because placing more than that on a CDROM would
reduce the access speed.

This upfront process takes approximately two weeks for a
6,0007,000page database.  The next step is to capture the page images.
How long this process takes is determined by the decision whether or not
to perform OCR.  Not performing OCR speeds the process, whereas text
capture requires greater care because of the quality of the image:  it
has to be straighter and allowance must be made for text on a page, not
just for the capture of photographs.

NATDP keys in tracking data, that is, a standard bibliographic record
including the title of the book and the title of the chapter, which will
later either become the access information or will be attached to the
front of a fulltext record so that it is searchable.

Images are scanned from a bound or unbound publication, chiefly from
bound publications in the case of NATDP, however, because often they are
the only copies and the publications are returned to the shelves.  NATDP
usually scans one record at a time, because its database tracking system
tracks the document in that way and does not require further logical
separating of the images.  After performing optical character
recognition, NATDP moves the images off the hard disk and maintains a
volume sheet.  Though the system tracks electronically, all the
processing steps are also tracked manually with a log sheet.

ZIDAR next illustrated the kinds of adjustments that one can make when
scanning from paper and microfilm, for example, redoing images that need
special handling, setting for dithering or gray scale, and adjusting for
brightness or for the whole book at one time.

NATDP is scanning at 300 dots per inch, a standard scanning resolution.
Though adequate for capturing text that is all of a standard size, 300
dpi is unsuitable for any kind of photographic material or for very small
text.  Many scanners allow for different image formats, TIFF, of course,
being a de facto standard.  But if one intends to exchange images with
other people, the ability to scan other image formats, even if they are
less common, becomes highly desirable.

CCITT Group 4 is the standard compression for normal blackandwhite
images, JPEG for gray scale or color.   ZIDAR recommended 1 using the
standard compressions, particularly if one attempts to make material
available and to allow users to download images and reuse them from
CDROMs and 2 maintaining the ability to output an uncompressed image,
because in image exchange uncompressed images are more likely to be able
to cross platforms.

ZIDAR emphasized the importance of deskewing and filtering as
requirements on NATDPs upgraded system.  For instance, scanning bound
books, particularly books published by the federal government whose pages
are skewed, and trying to scan them straight if OCR is to be performed,
is extremely timeconsuming.  The same holds for filtering of
poorquality or older materials.

ZIDAR described image capture from microform, using as an example three
reels from a sixtysevenreel set of the papers and letters of George
Washington Carver that had been produced by Tuskegee University.  These
resulted in approximately 3,500 imZTVH, DSRXS MZGWK SZW SZW HXZMMVW YB
RGH HVIERXV XLMGIZXGLI, HXRVMXV ZKKORXZGRLMH RMGVIMZGRLMZO XLIKLIZGRLM
HZRX.  MZGWK ZOHL XIVZGVW YRYORLTIZKSRX IVXLIWH ULI ZXXVHH.  MZGWK WRW
MLG SZEV HFXS HKVXRZORAVW VJFRKNVMG ZH Z NRXILURON HXZMMVI.

FMULIGFMZGVOB, GSV KILXVHH LU HXZMMRMT UILN NRXILURON DZH MLG ZM
FMJFZORURVW HFXXVHH, ARWZI IVKLIGVW:  YVXZFHV NRXILURON UIZNV HRAVH EZIB,
LXXZHRLMZOOB HLNV UIZNVH DVIV NRHHVW, DSRXS DRGSLFG HKVMWRMT NFXS GRNV
ZMW NLMVB XLFOW MLG YV IVXZKGFIVW.

LXI XLFOW MLG YV KVIULINVW UILN GSV HXZMMVW RNZTVH LU GSV UIZNVH.  GSV
YOVVWRMT RM GSV GVCG HRNKOB LFGKFG GVCG, DSVM LXI DZH IFM, GSZG XLFOW MLG
VEVM YV VWRGVW.  MZGWK GVHGVW ULI MVTZGREV EVIHFH KLHRGREV RNZTVH,
OZMWHXZKV EVIHFH KLIGIZRG LIRVMGZGRLM, ZMW HRMTOV EVIHFH WFZOKZTV
NRXILURON, MLMV LU DSRXS HVVNVW GL ZUUVXG GSV JFZORGB LU GSV RNZTV YFG
ZOHL LM MLMV LU GSVN XLFOW LXI YV KVIULINVW.

RM HVOVXGRMT GSV NRXILURON GSVB DLFOW FHV, GSVIVULIV, MZGWK SZW LGSVI
UZXGLIH RM NRMW.  ARWZI MLGVW GDL UZXGLIH GSZG RMUOFVMXVW GSV JFZORGB LU
GSV RNZTVH:  1 GSV RMSVIVMG JFZORGB LU GSV LIRTRMZO ZMW 2 GSV ZNLFMG LU
HRAV IVWFXGRLM LM GSV KZTVH.

GSV XZIEVI KZKVIH DVIV HVOVXGVW YVXZFHV GSVB ZIV RMULINZGREV ZMW ERHFZOOB
RMGVIVHGRMT, GIVZG Z HRMTOV HFYQVXG, ZMW ZIV EZOFZYOV RM GSVRI LDM IRTSG.
GSV RNZTVH DVIV HXZMMVW ZMW WRERWVW RMGL OLTRXZO IVXLIWH YB HZRX, GSVM
WVOREVIVW, ZMW OLZWVW LMGL MZGWKH HBHGVN, DSVIV YRYORLTIZKSRX
RMULINZGRLM GZPVM WRIVXGOB UILN GSV RNZTVH DZH ZWWVW.  HXZMMRMT DZH
XLNKOVGVW RM HFNNVI 1991 ZMW YB GSV VMW LU HFNNVI 1992 GSV WRHP DZH
HXSVWFOVW GL YV KFYORHSVW.

KILYOVNH VMXLFMGVIVW WFIRMT KILXVHHRMT RMXOFWVW GSV ULOOLDRMT:  YVXZFHV
GSV NRXILURON HXZMMRMT SZW GL YV WLMV RM Z YZGXS, ZWQFHGNVMG ULI
RMWRERWFZO KZTV EZIRZGRLMH DZH MLG KLHHRYOV.  GSV UIZNV HRAV EZIRVW LM
ZXXLFMG LU GSV MZGFIV LU GSV NZGVIRZO, ZMW GSVIVULIV HLNV LU GSV UIZNVH
DVIV NRHHVW DSROV LGSVIH DVIV QFHG KZIGRZO UIZNVH.  GSV LMOB DZB GL TL
YZXP ZMW XZKGFIV GSRH NZGVIRZO DZH GL KIRMG LFG GSV KZTV DRGS GSV
NRXILURON IVZWVI UILN GSV NRHHRMT UIZNV ZMW GSVM HXZM RG RM UILN GSV
KZTV, DSRXS DZH VCGIVNVOB GRNVXLMHFNRMT.  GSV JFZORGB LU GSV RNZTVH
HXZMMVW UILN GSV KIRMGLFG LU GSV NRXILURON XLNKZIVW FMUZELIZYOB DRGS GSZG
LU GSV LIRTRMZO RNZTVH XZKGFIVW WRIVXGOB UILN GSV NRXILURON.  GSV
RMZYRORGB GL KVIULIN LXI ZOHL DZH Z NZQLI WRHZKKLRMGNVMG.  ZG GSV GRNV,
XLNKFGVI LFGKFG NRXILURON DZH FMZEZROZYOV GL GVHG.

GSV VJFRKNVMG FHVW ULI Z HXZMMRMT HBHGVN DZH GSV OZHG GLKRX ZWWIVHHVW YB
ARWZI.  GSV GBKV LU VJFRKNVMG GSZG LMV DLFOW KFIXSZHV ULI Z HXZMMRMT
HBHGVN RMXOFWVW:  Z NRXILXLNKFGVI, ZG OVZHG Z 386, YFG KIVUVIZYOB Z 486
Z OZITV SZIW WRHP, 380 NVTZYBGV ZG NRMRNFN Z NFOGRGZHPRMT LKVIZGRMT
HBHGVN GSZG ZOOLDH LMV GL IFM HLNV GSRMTH RM YZGXS RM GSV YZXPTILFMW
DSROV HXZMMRMT LI WLRMT GVCG VWRGRMT, ULI VCZNKOV, FMRC LI LH2 ZMW,
GSVLIVGRXZOOB, DRMWLDH Z SRTSHKVVW HXZMMVI ZMW HXZMMRMT HLUGDZIV GSZG
ZOOLDH LMV GL NZPV GSV EZIRLFH ZWQFHGNVMGH NVMGRLMVW VZIORVI Z
SRTSIVHLOFGRLM NLMRGLI 150 WKR  LXI HLUGDZIV ZMW SZIWDZIV GL KVIULIN
GVCG IVXLTMRGRLM ZM LKGRXZO WRHP HFYHBHGVN LM DSRXS GL ZIXSREV ZOO GSV
RNZTVH ZH GSV KILXVHHRMT RH WLMV UROV NZMZTVNVMG ZMW GIZXPRMT HLUGDZIV.
