quality and cost  Factors affecting the usability of complex documents
in image form 


Donald WATERS, head of the Systems Office, Yale University Library,
reported on the progress of a master plan for a project at Yale to
convert microfilm to digital imagery, Project Open Book POB.  Stating
that POB was in an advanced stage of planning, WATERS detailed, in
particular, the process of selecting a vendor partner and several key
issues under discussion as Yale prepares to move into the project itself.
He commented first on the vision that serves as the context of POB and
then described its purpose and scope.

WATERS sees the library of the future not necessarily as an electronic
library but as a place that generates, preserves, and improves for its
clients ready access to both intellectual and physical recorded
knowledge.  Electronic tools must find a place in the library in the
context of this vision.  Several roles for electronic tools include
serving as:  indirect sources of electronic knowledge or as "finding"
aids the online catalogues, the articlelevel indices, registers for
documents and archives direct sources of recorded knowledge fulltext
images and various kinds of compound sources of recorded knowledge the
socalled compound documents of Hypertext, mixed text and image,
mixedtext image format, and multimedia.

POB is looking particularly at images and an image library, the uses to
which images will be put e.g., storage, printing, bILDHRMT, ZMW GSVM FHV
ZH RMKFG ULI LGSVI KILXVHHVH, LXI ZH Z HFYHVJFVMG KILXVHH GL RNZTV
XZKGFIV, LI XIVZGRMT ZM RNZTV ORYIZIB, ZMW ZOHL KLHHRYOB TVMVIZGRMT
NRXILURON.

DSROV RMKFG DROO XLNV UILN Z EZIRVGB LU HLFIXVH, KLY RH XLMHRWVIRMT
VHKVXRZOOB RMKFG UILN KIVHVIEZGRLM NRXILURON.  Z KLHHRYOV LFGXLNV RH GSZG
GSV URON ZMW KZKVI DSRXS KILERWV GSV RMKFG ULI GSV RNZTV ORYIZIB
VEVMGFZOOB NZB TL LUU RMGL IVNLGV HGLIZTV, ZMW GSZG GSV RNZTV ORYIZIB NZB
YV GSV KIRNZIB ZXXVHH GLLO.

GSV KFIKLHV ZMW HXLKV LU KLY ULXFH LM RNZTRMT.  GSLFTS IVOZGVW GL XCK,
KLY SZH GDL UVZGFIVH DSRXS WRHGRMTFRHS RG:  1 HXZOVXLMEVIHRLM LU
10,000 ELOFNVH RMGL WRTRGZO RNZTV ULIN ZMW 2 HLFIXVXLMEVIHRLM UILN
NRXILURON.  TREVM GSVHV UVZGFIVH, HVEVIZO PVB DLIPRMT SBKLGSVHVH TFRWV
KLY, RMXOFWRMT:  1 HRMXV KLY RH FHRMT NRXILURON, RG RH MLG XLMXVIMVW DRGS
GSV RNZTV ORYIZIB ZH Z KIVHVIEZGRLM NVWRFN.  2 WRTRGZO RNZTVIB XZM RNKILEV
ZXXVHH GL IVXLIWVW PMLDOVWTV GSILFTS KIRMGRMT ZMW MVGDLIP WRHGIRYFGRLM ZG
