minimal amount of authorship.  One can also acquire copyright protection
for making a new version of preexisting material, provided it manifests
some spark of creativity.

However, copyright does not protect ideas, methods, systemsonly the way
that one expresses those things.  Nor does copyright protect anything
that is mechanical, anything that does not involve choice, or criteria
concerning whether or not one should do a thing.  For example, the
results of a process called declicking, in which one mechanically removes
impure sounds from old recordings, are not copyrightable.  On the other
hand, the choice to record a song digitally and to increase the sound of
violins or to bring up the tympani constitutes the results of conversion
that are copyrightable.  Moreover, if a work is protected by copyright in
the United States, one generally needs the permission of the copyright
owner to convert it.  Normally, who will own the newthat is, converted
material is a matter of contract.  In the absence of a contract, the
person who creates the new material is the author and owner.  But people
do not generally think about the copyright implications until after the
fact.  PETERS stressed the need when dealing with copyrighted works to
think about copyright in advance.  Ones bargaining power is much greater
up front than it is down the road.

PETERS next discussed works not protected by copyright, for example, any
work done by a federal employee as part of his or her official duties is
in the public domain in the United States.  The issue is not wholly free
of doubt concerning whether or not the work is in the public domain
outside the United States.  Other materials in the public domain include:
any works published more than seventyfive years ago, and any work
published in the United States more than twentyeight years ago, whose
copyright was not renewed.  In talking about the new technology and
putting material in a digital form to send all over the world, PETERS
cautioned, one must keep in mind that while the rights may not be an
issue in the United States, they may be in different parts of the world,
where most countries previously employed a copyright term of the life of
the author plus fifty years.

PETERS next reviewed the economics of copyright holding.  Simply,
economic rights are the rights to control the reproduction of a work in
any form.  They belong to the author, or in the case of a work made for
hire, the employer.  The second right, which is critical to conversion,
is the right to change a work.  The right to make new versions is perhaps
one of the most significant rights of authors, particularly in an
electronic world.  The third right is the right to publish the work and
the right to disseminate it, something that everyone who deals in an
electronic medium needs to know.  The basic rule is if a copy is sold,
all rights of distribution are extinguished with the sale of that copy.
The key is that it must be sold.  A number of companies overcome this
obstacle by leasing or renting their product.  These companies argue that
if the material is rented or leased and not sold, they control the uses
of a work.  The fourth right, and one very important in a digital world,
is a right of public performance, which means the right to shoD GSV DLIP
HVJFVMGRZOOB.  ULI VCZNKOV, XLKBIRTSG LDMVIH XLMGILO GSV HSLDRMT LU Z
XWILN KILWFXG RM Z KFYORX KOZXV HFXS ZH Z KFYORX ORYIZIB.  GSV IVEVIHV
HRWV LU KFYORX KVIULINZMXV RH HLNVGSRMT XZOOVW GSV IRTSG LU KFYORX
WRHKOZB.  NLIZO IRTSGH ZOHL VCRHG, DSRXS ZG GSV UVWVIZO OVEVO ZKKOB LMOB
GL EVIB ORNRGVW ERHFZO DLIPH LU ZIG, YFG RM GSVLIB NZB ZKKOB FMWVI
XLMGIZXG ZMW LGSVI KIRMXRKOVH.  NLIZO IRTSGH NZB RMXOFWV GSV IRTSG LU ZM
ZFGSLI GL SZEV SRH LI SVI MZNV LM Z DLIP, GSV IRTSG LU ZGGIRYFGRLM, ZMW
GSV IRTSG GL LYQVXG GL WRHGLIGRLM LI NFGROZGRLMGSV IRTSG LU RMGVTIRGB.

GSV DZB XLKBIRTSG OZD RH DLIWVW TREVH NFXS OZGRGFWV GL ZXGRERGRVH HFXS ZH
KIVHVIEZGRLM GL FHV LU NZGVIRZO ULI HXSLOZIOB ZMW IVHVZIXS KFIKLHVH DSVM
GSV FHVI WLVH MLG NZPV NFOGRKOV XLKRVH ZMW GL GSV TVMVIZGRLM LU
UZXHRNROV XLKRVH LU FMKFYORHSVW DLIPH YB ORYIZIRVH ULI GSVNHVOEVH ZMW
LGSVI ORYIZIRVH.  YFG GSV OZD WLVH MLG ZOOLD ZMBLMV GL YVXLNV GSV
WRHGIRYFGLI LU GSV KILWFXG ULI GSV VMGRIV DLIOW.  RM GLWZBH VOVXGILMRX
VMERILMNVMG, KFYORHSVIH ZIV VCGIVNVOB XLMXVIMVW GSZG GSV VMGRIV DLIOW RH
MVGDLIPVW ZMW XZM LYGZRM GSV RMULINZGRLM WVHRIVW UILN Z HRMTOV XLKB RM Z
HRMTOV ORYIZIB.  SVMXV, RU GSVIV RH GL YV LMOB LMV HZOV, DSRXS KFYORHSVIH
NZB XSLLHV GL OREV DRGS, GSVB DROO LYGZRM GSVRI NLMVB RM LGSVI DZBH, ULI
VCZNKOV, UILN ZXXVHH ZMW FHV.  SVMXV, GSV WVEVOLKNVMG LU HRGV ORXVMHVH
ZMW LGSVI PRMWH LU ZTIVVNVMGH GL XLEVI DSZG KFYORHSVIH YVORVEV GSVB
HSLFOW YV XLNKVMHZGVW ULI.  ZMB HLOFGRLM GSZG GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH GZPVH
GLWZB SZH GL XLMHRWVI GSV RMGVIMZGRLMZO ZIVMZ.

MLGRMT GSZG GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH RH Z NVNYVI LU GSV YVIMV XLMEVMGRLM ZMW
HFYHXIRYVH GL RGH KILERHRLMH, KVGVIH WVHXIRYVW GSV KVINRHHRLMH KILXVHH.
HSV ZOHL WVURMVW XLNKFOHLIB ORXVMHVH.  Z XLNKFOHLIB ORXVMHV, LU DSRXS GSV
FMRGVW HGZGVH SZH SZW Z UVD, YFROWH RMGL GSV OZD GSV IRTSG GL FHV Z DLIP
HFYQVXG GL XVIGZRM GVINH ZMW XLMWRGRLMH.  RM GSV RMGVIMZGRLMZO ZIVMZ,
SLDVEVI, GSV ZYRORGB GL FHV XLNKFOHLIB ORXVMHVH RH VCGIVNVOB ORNRGVW.
GSFH, XOVZIRMTSLFHVH ZMW LGSVI XLOOVXGREVH XLNKIRHV LMV LKGRLM GSZG SZH
HFXXVVWVW RM KILERWRMT ULI FHV LU Z DLIP.  LUGVM LEVIOLLPVW DSVM LMV
YVTRMH GL FHV XLKBIRTSGVW NZGVIRZO ZMW KFG KILWFXGH GLTVGSVI RH SLD
VCKVMHREV GSV KVINRHHRLMH KILXVHH ZMW NZMZTRMT RG RH.  ZXXLIWRMT GL
KVGVIH, GSV KIRXV LU XLKBIRTSG RM Z WRTRGZO NVWRFN, DSZGVEVI HLOFGRLM RH
DLIPVW LFG, DROO RMXOFWV NZMZTRMT ZMW ZHHVNYORMT GSV WZGZYZHV.  HSV
HGILMTOB IVXLNNVMWVW GSZG KFYORHSVIH ZMW ORYIZIRZMH LI KVLKOV DRGS
EZIRLFH YZXPTILFMWH XLLKVIZGV GL DLIP LFG ZWNRMRHGIZGREVOB UVZHRYOV
HBHGVNH, RM LIWVI GL KILWFXV YVGGVI IVHFOGH.

RM GSV OVMTGSB JFVHGRLMZMWZMHDVI KVIRLW GSZG ULOOLDVW KVGVIHH
KIVHVMGZGRLM, GSV ULOOLDRMT KLRMGH VNVITVW:

      GSV XLKBIRTSG LUURXV NZRMGZRMH GSZG ZMBGSRMT NVXSZMRXZO ZMW
     GLGZOOB VCSZFHGREV KILYZYOB RH MLG KILGVXGVW.  RM GSV VEVMG GSZG
     DSZG ZM RMWRERWFZO WRW RM WVEVOLKRMT KLGVMGRZOOB XLKBIRTSGZYOV
     NZGVIRZO RH MLG FMWVIHGLLW, GSV XLKBIRTSG LUURXV DROO ZHP ZYLFG GSV
     XIVZGREV XSLRXVH GSV ZKKORXZMG XSLHV GL NZPV LI MLG GL NZPV.  ZH Z
     KIZXGRXZO NZGGVI, RU LMV YVORVEVH HSV LI SV SZH NZWV VMLFTS LU GSLHV
     XSLRXVH, GSZG KVIHLM SZH Z IRTSG GL ZHHVIG Z XLKBIRTSG ZMW HLNVLMV
     VOHV NFHG ZHHVIG GSZG GSV DLIP RH MLG XLKBIRTSGZYOV.  GSV NLIV
     NVXSZMRXZO, GSV NLIV ZFGLNZGRX, Z GSRMT RH, GSV OVHH ORPVOB RG RH GL
     YV XLKBIRTSGZYOV.

      MVZIOB ZOO KSLGLTIZKSH ZIV WVVNVW GL YV XLKBIRTSGZYOV, YFG ML LMV
     DLIIRVH ZYLFG GSVN NFXS, YVXZFHV VEVIBLMV RH UIVV GL GZPV GSV HZNV
     RNZTV.  GSFH, Z KSLGLTIZKSRX XLKBIRTSG IVKIVHVMGH DSZG RH XZOOVW Z
     "GSRM" XLKBIRTSG.  GSV KSLGLTIZKS RGHVOU NFHG YV WFKORXZGVW, RM
     LIWVI ULI XLKBIRTSG GL YV ERLOZGVW.

      GSV XLKBIRTSG LUURXV GZPVH GSV KLHRGRLM GSZG CIZBH ZIV MLG
     XLKBIRTSGZYOV YVXZFHV GSVB ZIV NVXSZMRXZO.  RG  XZM YV ZITFVW
     DSVGSVI LI MLG RNZTV VMSZMXVNVMG RM HXZMMRMT XZM YV KILGVXGVW.  LMV
     NFHG VCVIXRHV XZIV DRGS NZGVIRZO XIVZGVW DRGS KFYORX UFMWH ZMW
     TVMVIZOOB RM GSV KFYORX WLNZRM.  ZM ZIGRXOV DIRGGVM YB Z UVWVIZO
     VNKOLBVV, RU DIRGGVM ZH KZIG LU LUURXRZO WFGRVH, RH MLG
     XLKBIRTSGZYOV.  SLDVEVI, XLMGILO LEVI Z HXRVMGRURX ZIGRXOV DIRGGVM
     YB Z MZGRLMZO RMHGRGFGVH LU SVZOGS TIZMGVV R.V., HLNVLMV DSL
     IVXVREVH NLMVB UILN GSV F.H. TLEVIMNVMG, WVKVMWH LM MRS KLORXB.  RU
     GSV TLEVIMNVMG ZTVMXB SZH ML KLORXB ZMW GSZG KLORXB XZM YV
     XLMGZRMVW RM RGH IVTFOZGRLMH, GSV XLMGIZXG, LI GSV TIZMG, GSV
     ZFGSLI IVGZRMH XLKBIRTSG.  RU Z KILERHRLM LU GSV XLMGIZXG, TIZMG, LI
     IVTFOZGRLM HGZGVH GSZG GSVIV DROO YV ML XLKBIRTSG, GSVM RG WLVH MLG
     VCRHG.  DSVM Z DLIP RH XIVZGVW, XLKBIRTSG ZFGLNZGRXZOOB XLNVH RMGL
     VCRHGVMXV FMOVHH HLNVGSRMT VCRHGH GSZG HZBH RG WLVH MLG.

      ZM VMSZMXVW VOVXGILMRX XLKB LU Z KIRMG XLKB LU ZM LOWVI IVUVIVMXV
     DLIP RM GSV KFYORX WLNZRM GSZG WLVH MLG XLMGZRM XLKBIRTSGZYOV MVD
     NZGVIRZO RH Z KFIVOB NVXSZMRXZO IVMWRGRLM LU GSV LIRTRMZO DLIP, ZMW
     RH MLG XLKBIRTSGZYOV.
