LYNCHs offer to test or demonstrate its database in a network
environment, FLEISCHHAUER said.

Returning the discussion to what she viewed as the vital issue of
electronic deposit, BATTIN recommended that LC initiate a catalytic
process in terms of distributed responsibility, that is, bring together
the distributed organizations and set up a study group to look at all
these issues and see where we as a nation should move.  The broader
issues of how we deal with the management of electronic information will
not disappear, but only grow worse.

LESK took up this theme and suggested that LC attempt to persuade one
major library in each state to deal with its state equivalent publisher,
which might produce a cooperative project that would be equitably
distributed around the country, and one in which LC would be dealing with
a minimal number of publishers and minimal copyright problems.

GRABER remarked the recent development in the scientific community of a
willingness to use SGML and either deposit or interchange on a fairly
standardized format.  He wondered if a similar movement was taking place
in the humanities.  Although the National Library of Medicine found only
a few publishers to cooperate in a like venture two or three years ago, a
new effort might generate a much larger number willing to cooperate.

KIMBALL recounted his units MachineReadable Collections Reading Room
troubles with the commercial publishers of electronic media in acquiring
materials for LCs collections, in particular the publishers fear that
they would not be able to cover their costs and would lose control of
their products, that LC would give them away or sell them and make
profits from them.  He doubted that the publishing industry was prepared
to move into this area at the moment, given its resistance to allowing LC
to use its machinereadable materials as the Library would like.

The copyright law now addresses compact disk as a medium, and LC can
request one copy of that, or two copies if it is the only version, and
can request copies of software, but that fails to address magazines or
books or anything like that which is in machinereadable form.

GIFFORD acknowledged the thorny nature of this issue, which he illustrated
with the example of the cumbersome process involved in putting a copy of a
scientific database on a LAN in LCs science reading room.  He also
acknowledged that LC needs help and could enlist the energies and talents
of Workshop participants in thinking through a number of these problems.

GIFFORD returned the discussion to getting the image and text people to
think through together where they want to go in the long term.  MYLONAS
conceded that her experience at the Pierce Symposium the previous week at
Georgetown University and this week at LC had forced her to reevaluate
her perspective on the usefulness of text as images.  MYLONAS framed the
issues in a series of questions:  How do we acquire machinereadable
text?  Do we take pictures of it and perform OCR on it later?  Is it
important to obtain very highquality images and text, etc.?
FLEISCHHAUER agreed with MYLONASs framing LU HGIZGVTRX JFVHGRLMH, ZWWRMT
GSZG Z OZITV RMHGRGFGRLM HFXS ZH OX KILYZYOB SZH GL WL ZOO LU GSLHV
GSRMTH ZG WRUUVIVMG GRNVH.  GSFH, GSV GIRXP RH GL VCVIXRHV QFWTNVMG.  GSV
DLIPHSLK SZW ZWWVW GL SRH ZMW ZNH XLMHRWVIZGRLMH RM NZPRMT GSLHV
QFWTNVMGH.  XLMXVIMRMT UFGFIV NVVGRMTH LI WRHXFHHRLMH, NBOLMZH HFTTVHGVW
GSZG HXIVVMRMT KIRLIRGRVH DLFOW YV SVOKUFO.

DVRYVO LKRMVW GSZG GSV WREVIHRGB IVUOVXGVW RM GSRH TILFK DZH Z HRTM YLGS
LU GSV SVZOGS ZMW LU GSV RNNZGFIRGB LU GSV URVOW, ZMW NLIV GRNV DLFOW
SZEV GL KZHH YVULIV DV XLMERMXV LMV ZMLGSVI XLMXVIMRMT HGZMWZIWH.

ZM VCXSZMTV YVGDVVM NBOLMZH ZMW YZGGRM XOZIRURVW GSV KLRMG GSZG GSV
WIRERMT ULIXV YVSRMW YLGS GSV KVIHVFH ZMW GSV XLIMVOO CVILC KILQVXGH DZH
GSV KIVHVIEZGRLM LU PMLDOVWTV ULI GSV UFGFIV, MLG HRNKOB ULI KZIGRXFOZI
IVHVZIXS FHV.  RM GSV XZHV LU KVIHVFH, NBOLMZH HZRW, GSV ZHHFNKGRLM DZH
GSZG GSV GVCGH DLFOW MLG YV VMGVIVW ZTZRM RMGL VOVXGILMRXZOOB IVZWZYOV
ULIN.  HKVIYVITNXJFVVM ZWWVW GSZG Z HXZMMVW RNZTV DLFOW MLG HVIEV ZH ZM
ZIXSREZO XLKB ULI KFIKLHVH LU KIVHVIEZGRLM RM GSV XZHV LU, HZB, GSV YROO
LU IRTSGH, RM GSV HVMHV GSZG GSV HXZMMVW RNZTVH ZIV VUUVXGREVOB GSV
ZIXSREZO XLKRVH ULI GSV XLIMVOO NZGSVNZGRXH YLLPH.


                                 


                          ZKKVMWRC R:  KILTIZN



                                DLIPHSLK
                                   LM
                               VOVXGILMRX
                                  GVCGH



                             910 QFMV 1992

                           ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH
                            DZHSRMTGLM, W.X.



    HFKKLIGVW YB Z TIZMG UILN GSV WZERW ZMW OFXROV KZXPZIW ULFMWZGRLM


GFVHWZB, 9 QFMV 1992

MZGRLMZO WVNLMHGIZGRLM OZY, ZGIRFN, ORYIZIB NZWRHLM

8:30 ZN   XLUUVV ZMW WZMRHS, IVTRHGIZGRLM

9:00 ZN   DVOXLNV

          KILHHVI TRUULIW, WRIVXGLI ULI HXSLOZIOB KILTIZNH, ZMW XZIO
             UOVRHXSSZFVI, XLLIWRMZGLI, ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB, ORYIZIB LU
             XLMTIVHH

9:O5 ZN   HVHHRLM R.  XLMGVMG RM Z MVD ULIN:  DSL DROO FHV RG ZMW DSZG
          DROO GSVB WL?

          YILZW WVHXIRKGRLM LU GSV IZMTV LU VOVXGILMRX RMULINZGRLM.
          XSZIZXGVIRAZGRLM LU DSL FHVH RG ZMW SLD RG RH LI NZB YV FHVW.
          RM ZWWRGRLM GL Z OLLP ZG HXSLOZIOB FHVH, GSRH HVHHRLM DROO
          RMXOFWV Z KIVHVMGZGRLM LM FHV YB HGFWVMGH P12 ZMW XLOOVTV
          ZMW GSV TVMVIZO KFYORX.

          NLWVIZGLI:  QZNVH WZOB
          ZEIZ NRXSVOHLM, ZIXSREZO IVHVZIXS ZMW VEZOFZGRLM HGZUU,
             MZGRLMZO ZIXSREVH ZMW IVXLIWH ZWNRMRHGIZGRLM LEVIERVD
          HFHZM S. EVXXRZ, GVZN OVZWVI, ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB, FHVI VEZOFZGRLM,
             ZMW
          QLZMMV UIVVNZM, ZHHLXRZGV XLLIWRMZGLI, ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB, ORYIZIB
             LU XLMTIVHH YVBLMW GSV HXSLOZI

10:30
11:00 ZN  YIVZP

11:00 ZN  HVHHRLM RR.  HSLD ZMW GVOO.

          VZXS KIVHVMGZGRLM GL XLMHRHG LU Z URUGVVMNRMFGV
          HGZGVNVMGHSLD TILFK WRHXFHHRLM DROO ULOOLD OFMXS.

          NLWVIZGLI:  QZXJFVORMV SVHH, WRIVXGLI, MZGRLMZO WVNLMHGIZGRLM
             OZY

            1.  Z XOZHHRXH KILQVXG, HGIVHHRMT GVCGH ZMW GVCG IVGIRVEZO
                NLIV GSZM NFOGRNVWRZ:  KVIHVFH KILQVXG, SZIEZIW
                FMREVIHRGB
                VOOR NBOLMZH, NZMZTRMT VWRGLI

            2.  LGSVI SFNZMRGRVH KILQVXGH VNKOLBRMT GSV VNVITRMT MLINH LU
                GSV GVCG VMXLWRMT RMRGRZGREV GVR:  XSZWDBXPSVZOVBH
                GSV VMTORHS KLVGIB UFOO GVCG WZGZYZHV ZMWLI KZGILOLTRZ
                OZGRMZ WZGZYZHV
                VIRX N. XZOZOFXZ, ERXV KIVHRWVMG, XSZWDBXPSVZOVB, RMX.

            3.  ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB
                XZIO UOVRHXSSZFVI, XLLIWRMZGLI, ZMW
                IRXPB VIDZB, ZHHLXRZGV XLLIWRMZGLI, ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH

            4.  ULFMWRMT UZGSVIH VCZNKOV UILN KZXPZIW SFNZMRGRVH
                RMHGRGFGV:  GSV KZKVIH LU TVLITV DZHSRMTGLM, FMREVIHRGB
                LU ERITRMRZ
                WLILGSB GDLSRT, NZMZTRMT VWRGLI, ZMWLI
                WZERW DLLWOVB KZXPZIW

            5.  ZM VOVXGILMRX NVWRXZO QLFIMZO LUUVIRMT TIZKSRXH ZMW
                UFOOGVCG HVZIXSZYRORGB:  GSV LMORMV QLFIMZO LU XFIIVMG
                XORMRXZO GIRZOH, ZNVIRXZM ZHHLXRZGRLM ULI GSV ZWEZMXVNVMG
                LU HXRVMXV
                NZIRZ O. OVYILM, NZMZTRMT VWRGLI

            6.  Z KILQVXG GSZG LUUVIH UZXHRNROV RNZTVH LU KZTVH YFG LNRGH
                HVZIXSZYOV GVCG:  XLIMVOO NZGS YLLPH
                OBMMV P. KVIHLMRFH, ZHHRHGZMG WRIVXGLI, XLIMVOO
                   RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTRVH ULI HXSLOZIOB RMULINZGRLM
                   HLFIXVH, XLIMVOO FMREVIHRGB

12:30 KN  OFMXS  WRMRMT ILLN Z, ORYIZIB NZWRHLM 620.  VCSRYRGH
          ZEZROZYOV.

1:30 KN   HVHHRLM RR.  HSLD ZMW GVOO XLMGW..

3:00
3:30 KN   YIVZP
