This joint discussion focuses on nonscholarly applications of electronic
library materials, specifically addressing use of the Library of Congress
American Memory AM program in a small number of public and school
libraries throughout the United States.  AM consists of selected Library
of Congress primary archival materials, stored on optical media
CDROMvideodisc, and presented with little or no editing.  Many
collections are accompanied by electronic introductions and users guides
offering background information and historical context.  Collections
represent a variety of formats including photographs, graphic arts,
motion pictures, recorded sound, music, broadsides and manuscripts,
books, and pamphlets.

In 1991, the Library of Congress began a nationwide evaluation of AM in
different types of institutions.  Test sites include public libraries,
elementary and secondary school libraries, college and university
libraries, state libraries, and special libraries.  Susan VECCIA and
Joanne FREEMAN will discuss their observations on the use of AM by the
nonscholarly community, using evidence gleaned from this ongoing
evaluation effort.

VECCIA will comment on the overall goals of the evaluation project, and
the types of public and school libraries included in this study.  Her
comments on nonscholarly use of AM will focus on the public library as a
cultural and community institution, often bridging the gap between formal
and informal education.  FREEMAN will discuss the use of AM in school
libraries.  Use by students and teachers has revealed some broad
questions about the use of electronic resources, as well as definite
benefits gained by the "nonscholar."  Topics will include the problem of
grasping content and context in an electronic environment, the stumbling
blocks created by "new" technologies, and the unique skills and interests
awakened through use of electronic resources.

SESSION II

Elli MYLONAS             The Perseus Project:  Interactive Sources and
                         Studies in Classical Greece

The Perseus Project 5 has just released Perseus 1.0, the first publicly
available version of its hypertextual database of multimedia materials on
classical Greece.  Perseus is designed to be used by a wide audience,
comprised of readers at the student and scholar levels.  As such, it must
be able to locate information using different strategies, and it must
contain enough detail to serve the different needs of its users.  In
addition, it must be delivered so that it is affordable to its target
audience.  These problems and the solutions we chose are described in
Mylonas, "An Interface to Classical Greek Civilization," JASIS 43:2,
March 1992.

In order to achieve its objective, the project staff decided to make a
conscious separation between selecting and converting textual, database,
and image data on the one hand, and putting it into a delivery system on
the other.  That way, it is possible to create the electronic data
without thinking about the restrictions of the delivery system.  We have
made a great effort to choose systemindependent formats for our data,
and to put as much thought and work as possible into structuring it so
that the translation from paper to electronic form will enhance the value
of the data. A discussion of these solutions as of two years ago is in
Elli Mylonas, Gregory Crane, Kenneth Morrell, and D. Neel Smith, "The
Perseus Project:  Data in the Electronic Age," in Accessing Antiquity:
The Computerization of Classical Databases, J. Solomon and T. Worthen
eds.,  University of Arizona Press, in press.

Much of the work on Perseus is focused on collecting and converting the
data on which the project is based.  At the same time, it is necessary to
provide means of access to the information, in order to make it usable,
and them to investigate how it is used.  As we learn more about what
students and scholars from different backgrounds do with Perseus, we can
adjust our data collection, and also modify the system to accommodate
them.  In creating a delivery system for general use, we have tried to
avoid favoring any one type of use by allowing multiple forms of access
to and navigation through the system.

The way text is handled exemplifies some of these principles.  All text
in Perseus is tagged using SGML, following the guidelines of the Text
Encoding Initiative TEI.  This markup is used to index the text, and
process it so that it can be imported into HyperCard.  No SGML markup
remains in the text that reaches the user, because currently it would be
too expensive to create a system that acts on SGML in real time.
However, the regularity provided by SGML is essential for verifying the
content of the texts, and greatly speeds all the processing pVIULINVW LM
GSVN.  GSV UZXG GSZG GSV GVCGH VCRHG RM HTNO VMHFIVH GSZG GSVB DROO YV
IVOZGREVOB VZHB GL KLIG GL WRUUVIVMG SZIWDZIV ZMW HLUGDZIV, ZMW HL DROO
LFGOZHG GSV XFIIVMG WVOREVIB KOZGULIN.  URMZOOB, GSV HTNO NZIPFK
RMXLIKLIZGVH VCRHGRMT XZMLMRXZO IVUVIVMXV HBHGVNH XSZKGVI, EVIHV, ORMV,
VGX. RMWVCRMT ZMW MZERTZGRLM ZIV YZHVW LM GSVHV UVZGFIVH.  GSRH VMHFIVH
GSZG GSV HZNV XZMLMRXZO IVUVIVMXV DROO ZODZBH IVHLOEV GL GSV HZNV KLRMG
DRGSRM Z GVCG, ZMW GSZG ZOO EVIHRLMH LU LFI GVCGH, IVTZIWOVHH LU WVOREVIB
KOZGULIN VEVM KZKVI KIRMGLFGH DROO UFMXGRLM GSV HZNV DZB.

RM LIWVI GL KILERWV GLLOH ULI FHVIH, GSV GVCG RH KILXVHHVW YB Z
NLIKSLOLTRXZO ZMZOBAVI, ZMW GSV IVHFOGH ZIV HGLIVW RM Z WZGZYZHV.
GLTVGSVI DRGS GSV RMWVC, GSV TIVVPVMTORHS OVCRXLM, ZMW GSV RMWVC LU ZOO
GSV VMTORHS DLIWH RM GSV WVURMRGRLMH LU GSV OVCRXLM, GSV NLIKSLOLTRXZO
ZMZOBHVH XLNKIRHV Z HVG LU ORMTFRHGRX GLLOH GSZG ZOOLD FHVIH LU ZOO
OVEVOH GL DLIP DRGS GSV GVCGFZO RMULINZGRLM, ZMW GL ZXXLNKORHS WRUUVIVMG
GZHPH.  ULI VCZNKOV, HGFWVMGH DSL IVZW ML TIVVP NZB VCKOLIV Z XLMXVKG ZH
RG ZKKVZIH RM TIVVP GVCGH YB FHRMT GSV VMTORHSTIVVP RMWVC, ZMW GSVM
OLLPRMT FK DLIPH RM GSV GVCGH ZMW GIZMHOZGRLMH, LI HXSLOZIH NZB WL
