archiving of the electronic pages.  The type of equipment required for a
standalone scanning workstation and the importance of file management
software will be discussed.  Issues concerning the images themselves will
be addressed briefly, such as image format black and white versus color
gray scale versus dithering and resolution.

Also described will be a study currently in progress by NAL to evaluate
the usefulness of converting microfilm to electronic images in order to
improve access.  With the cooperation of Tuskegee University, NAL has
selected three reels of microfilm from a collection of sixtyseven reels
containing the papers, letters, and drawings of George Washington Carver.
The three reels were converted into 3,500 electronic images using a
specialized microfilm scanner.  The selection, filming, and indexing of
this material will be discussed.

Donald WATERS

Project Open Book, the Yale University Librarys effort to convert 10,
000 books from microfilm to digital imagery, is currently in an advanced
state of planning and organization.  The Yale Library has selected a
major vendor to serve as a partner in the project and as systems
integrator.  In its proposal, the successful vendor helped isolate areas
of risk and uncertainty as well as key issues to be addressed during the
life of the project.  The Yale Library is now poised to decide what
material it will convert to digital image form and to seek funding,
initially for the first phase and then for the entire project.

The proposal that Yale accepted for the implementation of Project Open
Book will provide at the end of three phases a conversion subsystem,
browsing stations distributed on the campus network within the Yale
Library, a subsystem for storing 10,000 books at 200 and 600 dots per
inch, and network access to the image printers.  Pricing for the system
implementation assumes the existence of Yales campus ethernet network
and its highspeed image printers, and includes other requisite hardware
and software, as well as system integration services.  Proposed operating
costs include hardware and software maintenance, but do not include
estimates for the facilities management of the storage devices and image
servers.

Yale selected its vendor partner in a formal process, partly funded by
the Commission for Preservation and Access.  Following a request for
proposal, the Yale Library selected two vendors as finalists to work with
Yale staff to generate a detailed analysis of requirements for Project
Open Book.  Each vendor used the results of the requirements analysis to
generate and submit a formal proposal for the entire project.  This
competitive process not only enabled the Yale Library to select its
primary vendor partner but also revealed much about the state of the
imaging industry, about the varying, corporate commitments to the markets
for imaging technology, and about the varying organizational dynamics
through which major companies are responding to and seeking to develop
these markets.

Project Open Book is focused specifically on the conversion of images
from microfilm to digital form.  The technology for scanning microfilm is
readily avaiOZYOV YFG RH XSZMTRMT IZKRWOB.  RM RGH KILQVXG IVJFRIVNVMGH,
GSV BZOV ORYIZIB VNKSZHRAVW UVZGFIVH LU GSV GVXSMLOLTB GSZG ZUUVXG GSV
GVXSMRXZO JFZORGB LU WRTRGZO RNZTV KILWFXGRLM ZMW GSV XLHGH LU XIVZGRMT
ZMW HGLIRMT GSV RNZTV ORYIZIB:  DSZG OVEVOH LU WRTRGZO IVHLOFGRLM XZM YV
ZXSRVEVW YB HXZMMRMT NRXILURON?  SLD WLVH EZIRZGRLM RM GSV JFZORGB LU
NRXILURON, KZIGRXFOZIOB RM URON KILWFXVW GL KIVHVIEZGRLM HGZMWZIWH,
ZUUVXG GSV JFZORGB LU GSV WRTRGZO RNZTVH?  DSZG GVXSMLOLTRVH XZM ZM
LKVIZGLI VUUVXGREVOB ZMW VXLMLNRXZOOB ZKKOB DSVM HXZMMRMT URON GL
HVKZIZGV GDLFK RNZTVH ZMW GL XLMGILO ULI ZMW XLIIVXG RNZTV
RNKVIUVXGRLMH?  SLD XZM JFZORGB XLMGILO YVHG YV RMGVTIZGVW RMGL
WRTRGRARMT DLIP UOLD GSZG RMXOFWVH WLXFNVMG RMWVCRMT ZMW HGLIZTV?

GSV ZXGFZO ZMW VCKVXGVW FHVH LU WRTRGZO RNZTVHHGLIZTV, YILDHRMT,
KIRMGRMT, ZMW LXISVOK WVGVINRMV GSV HGZMWZIWH ULI NVZHFIRMT GSVRI
JFZORGB.  YILDHRMT RH VHKVXRZOOB RNKLIGZMG, YFG GSV UZXRORGRVH ZEZROZYOV
ULI IVZWVIH GL YILDHV RNZTV WLXFNVMGH RH KVISZKH GSV DVZPVHG ZHKVXG LU
RNZTRMT GVXSMLOLTB ZMW NLHG RM MVVW LU WVEVOLKNVMG.  ZH RG WVURMVW RGH
IVJFRIVNVMGH, GSV BZOV ORYIZIB XLMXVMGIZGVW LM HLNV UFMWZNVMGZO ZHKVXGH
LU FHZYRORGB ULI RNZTV WLXFNVMGH:  WLVH GSV HBHGVN SZEV HFUURXRVMG
UOVCRYRORGB GL SZMWOV GSV UFOO IZMTV LU WLXFNVMG GBKVH, RMXOFWRMT
NLMLTIZKSH, NFOGRKZIG ZMW NFOGRELOFNV HVGH, ZMW HVIRZOH, ZH DVOO ZH
NZMFHXIRKG XLOOVXGRLMH?  DSZG XLMEVMGRLMH ZIV MVXVHHZIB GL RWVMGRUB Z
WLXFNVMG FMRJFVOB ULI HGLIZTV ZMW IVGIRVEZO?  DSVIV RH GSV WZGZYZHV LU
IVXLIW ULI HGLIRMT YRYORLTIZKSRX RMULINZGRLM ZYLFG GSV RNZTV WLXFNVMG?
SLD ZIV YZHRX RMGVIMZO HGIFXGFIVH LU WLXFNVMGH, HFXS ZH KZTRMZGRLM, NZWV
ZXXVHHRYOV GL GSV IVZWVI?  SLD ZIV GSV RNZTV WLXFNVMGH KSBHRXZOOB
