as did the ISOInternational Electrotechnical Commission Joint Task Force
on Imagery.  AIIM will take on the leadership role for the database and
coordinate its development with several standards developers.

Patricia BATTIN

     Characteristics of standards for digital imagery:

           Nature of digital technology implies continuing volatility.

           Precipitous standardsetting not possible and probably not
          desirable.

           Standards are a complex issue involving the medium, the
          hardware, the software, and the technical capacity for
          reproductive fidelity and clarity.

           The prognosis for reliable archival standards as defined by
          librarians in the foreseeable future is poor.

     Significant potential and attractiveness of digital technology as a
     preservation medium and access mechanism.

     Productive use of digital imagery for preservation requires a
     reconceptualizing of preservation principles in a volatile,
     standardless world.

     Concept of managing continuing access in the digital environment
     rather than focusing on the permanence of the medium and longterm
     archival standards developed for the analog world.

     Transition period:  How long and what to do?

            Redefine "archival."

            Remove the burden of "archival copy" from paper artifacts.

            Use digital technology for storage, develop management
          strategies for refreshing medium, hardware and software.

            Create acidfree paper copies for transition period backup
          until we develop reliable procedures for ensuring continuing
          access to digital files.

SESSION IVD

Stuart WEIBEL            The Role of SGML Markup in the CORE Project 6

The emergence of highspeed telecommunications networks as a basic
feature of the scholarly workplace is driving the demand for electronic
document delivery.  Three distinct categories of electronic
publishingrepublishing are necessary to support access demands in this
emerging environment:

     1.  Conversion of paper or microfilm archives to electronic format
     2.  Conversion of electronic files to formats tailored to
          electronic retrieval and display
     3.  Primary electronic publishing materials for which the
          electronic version is the primary format

OCLC has experimental or product development activities in each of these
areas.  Among the challenges that lie ahead is the integration of these
three types of information stores in coherent distributed systems.

The CORE Chemistry Online Retrieval Experiment Project is a model for
the conversion of large text and graphics collections for which
electronic typesetting files are available category 2.  The American
Chemical Society has made available computer typography files dating from
1980 for its twenty journals.  This collection of some 250 journalyears
is being converted to an electronic format that will be accessible
through several enduser applications.

The use of Standard Generalized Markup Language SGML offers the means
to capture the structural richness of the original articles in a way that
will support a variety of retrieval, navigation, and display options
necessary to navigate effectively in very large text databases.

An SGML document consists of text that is marked up with descriptive tags
that specify the function of a given element within the document.  As a
formal language construct, an SGML document can be parsed against a
documenttype definition DTD that unambiguously defines what elements
are allowed and where in the document they can or must occur.  This
formalized map of article structure allows the user interface design to
be uncoupled from the underlying database system, an important step
toward interoperability.  Demonstration of this separability is a part of
the CORE project, wherein user interface designs born of very different
philosophies will access the same database.

NOTES:
     6  The CORE project is a collaboration among Cornell Universitys
     Mann Library, Bell Communications Research Bellcore, the American
     Chemical Society ACS, the Chemical Abstracts Service CAS, and
     OCLC.

Michael LESK                  The CORE Electronic Chemistry Library

A major online file of chemical journal literature complete with
graphics is being developed to test the usability of fully electronic
access to WLXFNVMGH, ZH Z QLRMG KILQVXG LU XLIMVOO FMREVIHRGB, GSV
ZNVIRXZM XSVNRXZO HLXRVGB, GSV XSVNRXZO ZYHGIZXGH HVIERXV, LXOX, ZMW
YVOOXLIV DRGS ZWWRGRLMZO HFKKLIG UILN HFM NRXILHBHGVNH, HKIRMTVIEVIOZT,
WRTRGZR VJFRKNVMG XLIKLIZGRLM, HLMB XLIKLIZGRLM LU ZNVIRXZ, ZMW ZKKOV
XLNKFGVIH.  LFI UROV XLMGZRMH GSV ZNVIRXZM XSVNRXZO HLXRVGBH LMORMV
QLFIMZOH, HFKKOVNVMGVW DRGS GSV TIZKSRXH UILN GSV KZKVI KFYORXZGRLM.  GSV
RMWVCRMT LU GSV ZIGRXOVH UILN XSVNRXZO ZYHGIZXGH WLXFNVMGH RH ZEZROZYOV
RM YLGS RNZTV ZMW GVCG ULINZG, ZMW HVEVIZO WRUUVIVMG RMGVIUZXVH XZM YV
FHVW.  LFI TLZOH ZIV 1 GL ZHHVHH GSV VUUVXGREVMVHH ZMW ZXXVKGZYRORGB LU
VOVXGILMRX ZXXVHH GL KIRNZIB QLFIMZOH ZH XLNKZIVW DRGS KZKVI, ZMW 2 GL
RWVMGRUB GSV NLHG WVHRIZYOV UFMXGRLMH LU GSV FHVI RMGVIUZXV GL ZM
VOVXGILMRX HBHGVN LU QLFIMZOH, RMXOFWRMT RM KZIGRXFOZI Z XLNKZIRHLM LU
KZTVRNZTV WRHKOZB DRGS ZHXRR WRHKOZB RMGVIUZXVH.  VZIOB VCKVIRNVMGH DRGS
XSVNRHGIB HGFWVMGH LM Z EZIRVGB LU GZHPH HFTTVHG GSZG HVZIXSRMT GZHPH ZIV
XLNKOVGVW NFXS UZHGVI DRGS ZMB VOVXGILMRX HBHGVN GSZM DRGS KZKVI, YFG
GSZG ULI IVZWRMT ZOO EVIHRLMH LU GSV ZIGRXOVH ZIV ILFTSOB VJFREZOVMG.

KZNVOZ ZMWIV ZMW QFWRGS ARWZI

GVCG XLMEVIHRLM RH UZI NLIV VCKVMHREV ZMW GRNVXLMHFNRMT GSZM RNZTV
XZKGFIV ZOLMV.  MZOH VCKVIRVMXV DRGS LKGRXZO XSZIZXGVI IVXLTMRGRLM LXI
DROO YV IVOZGVW ZMW XLNKZIVW DRGS GSV VCKVIRVMXV LU SZERMT GVCG IVPVBVW.
DSZG UZXGLIH ZUUVXG LXI ZXXFIZXB?  SLD ZXXFIZGV WLVH UFOO GVCG SZEV GL YV
RM LIWVI GL YV FHVUFO?  SLD WL WRUUVIVMG FHVIH IVZXG GL RNKVIUVXG GVCG?
GSVHV ZIV JFVHGRLMH GSZG DROO YV VCKOLIVW.  ULI NZMB, Z HVIERXV YFIVZF
NZB YV Z YVGGVI HLOFGRLM GSZM KVIULINRMT GSV DLIP RMSLFHV GSRH DROO ZOHL
YV WRHXFHHVW.

HVHHRLM ER

NZIBYVGS KVGVIH

XLKBIRTSG OZD KILGVXGH XIVZGREV DLIPH.  KILGVXGRLM TIZMGVW YB GSV OZD GL
ZFGSLIH ZMW WRHHVNRMZGLIH LU DLIPH RMXOFWVH GSV IRTSG GL WL LI ZFGSLIRAV
GSV ULOOLDRMT:  IVKILWFXV GSV DLIP, KIVKZIV WVIREZGREV DLIPH, WRHGIRYFGV
GSV DLIP GL GSV KFYORX, ZMW KFYORXOB KVIULIN LI WRHKOZB GSV DLIP.  RM
ZWWRGRLM, XLKBIRTSG LDMVIH LU HLFMW IVXLIWRMTH ZMW XLNKFGVI KILTIZNH SZEV
GSV IRTSG GL XLMGILO IVMGZO LU GSVRI DLIPH.  GSVHV IRTSGH ZIV MLG
FMORNRGVW GSVIV ZIV Z MFNYVI LU VCXVKGRLMH ZMW ORNRGZGRLMH.

ZM VOVXGILMRX VMERILMNVMG KOZXVH HGIZRMH LM GSV XLKBIRTSG HBHGVN.
XLKBIRTSG LDMVIH DZMG GL XLMGILO FHVH LU GSVRI DLIP ZMW YV KZRW ULI ZMB
FHV GSV KFYORX DZMGH JFRXP ZMW VZHB ZXXVHH ZG ORGGOV LI ML XLHG.  GSV
NZIPVGKOZXV RH DLIPRMT RM GSRH ZIVZ.  XLMGIZXGH, TFRWVORMVH LM VOVXGILMRX
FHV, ZMW XLOOVXGREV ORXVMHRMT ZIV RM FHV ZMW YVRMT IVURMVW.

RHHFVH XLMXVIMRMT GSV ZYRORGB GL XSZMTV DLIPH DRGSLFG WVGVXGRLM ZIV NLIV
WRUURXFOG GL WVZO DRGS.  JFVHGRLMH XLMXVIMRMT GSV RMGVTIRGB LU GSV DLIP
ZMW GSV HGZGFH LU GSV XSZMTVW EVIHRLM FMWVI GSV XLKBIRTSG OZD ZIV GL YV
ZWWIVHHVW.  GSVHV ZIV KFYORX KLORXB RHHFVH DSRXS IVJFRIV RMULINVW
WRZOLTFV.


                                 


                ZKKVMWRC RRR:  WRIVXGLIB LU KZIGRXRKZMGH


KIVHVMGVIH:

     KZNVOZ J.Q. ZMWIV
