little way off, and she swam nearer to make out what it was:  at
first she thought it must be a walrus or hippopotamus, but then
she remembered how small she was now, and she soon made out that
it was only a mouse that had slipped in like herself.

  `Would it be of any use, now,' thought Alice, `to speak to this
mouse?  Everything is so out-of-the-way down here, that I should
think very likely it can talk:  at any rate, there's no harm in
trying.'  So she began:  `O Mouse, do you know the way out of
this pool?  I am very tired of swimming about here, O Mouse!'
(Alice thought this must be the right way of speaking to a mouse:
she had never done such a thing before, but she remembered having
seen in her brother's Latin Grammar, `A mouse--of a mouse--to a
mouse--a mouse--O mouse!'  The Mouse looked at her rather
inquisitively, and seemed to her to wink with one of its little
eyes, but it said nothing.

  `Perhaps it doesn't understand English,' thought Alice; `I
daresay it's a French mouse, come over with William the
Conqueror.'  (For, with all her knowledge of history, Alice had
no very clear notion how long ago anything had happened.)  So she
began again:  `Ou est ma chatte?' which was the first sentence in
her French lesson-book.  The Mouse gave a sudden leap out of the
water, and seemed to quiver all over with fright.  `Oh, I beg
your pardon!' cried Alice hastily, afraid that she had hurt the
poor animal's feelings.  `I quite forgot you didn't like cats.'

  `Not like cats!' cried the Mouse, in a shrill, passionate
voice.  `Would YOU like cats if you were me?'

  `Well, perhaps not,' said Alice in a soothing tone:  `don't be
angry about it.  And yet I wish I could show you our cat Dinah:
I think you'd take a fancy to cats if you could only see her.
She is such a dear quiet thing,' Alice went on, half to herself,
as she swam lazily about in the pool, `and she sits purring so
nicely by the fire, licking her paws and washing her face--and
she is such a nice soft thing to nurse--and she's such a capital
one for catching mice--oh, I beg your pardon!' cried Alice again,
for this time the Mouse was bristling all over, and she felt
certain it must be really offended.  `We won't talk about her any
more if you'd rather not.'

  `We indeed!' cried the Mouse, who was trembling down to the end
of his tail.  `As if I would talk on such a subject!  Our family
always HATED cats:  nasty, low, vulgar things!  Don't let me hear
the name again!'

  `I won't indeed!' said Alice, in a great hurry to change the
subject of conversation.  `Are you--are you fond--of--of dogs?'
The Mouse did not answer, so Alice went on eagerly:  `There is
such a nice little dog near our house I should like to show you!
A little bright-eyed terrier, you know, with oh, such long curly
brown hair!  And it'll fetch things when you throw them, and
it'll sit up and beg for its dinner, and all sorts of things--I
can't remember half of them--and it belongs to a farmer, you
know, and he says it's so useful, it's worth a hundred pounds!
He says it kills all the rats and--oh dear!' cried Alice in a
sorrowful tone, `I'm afraid I've offended it again!'  For the
Mouse was swimming away from her as hard as it could go, and
making quite a commotion in the pool as it went.

  So she called softly after it, `Mouse dear!  Do come back
again, and we won't talk about cats or dogs either, if you don't
like them!'  When the Mouse heard this, it turned round and swam
slowly back to her:  its face was quite pale (with passion, Alice
thought), and it said in a low trembling voice, `Let us get to
the shore, and then I'll tell you my history, and you'll
understand why it is I hate cats and dogs.'

  It was high time to go, for the pool was getting quite crowded
with the birds and animals that had fallen into it:  there were a
Duck and a Dodo, a Lory and an Eaglet, and several other curious
creatures.  Alice led the way, and the whole party swam to the
shore.



                           CHAPTER III

                  A Caucus-Race and a Long Tale


  They were indeed a queer-looking party that assembled on the
bank--the birds with draggled feathers, the animals with their
fur clinging close to them, and all dripping wet, cross, and
uncomfortable.

  The first question of course was, how to get dry again:  they
had a consultation about this, and after a few minutes it seemed
quite natural to Alice to find herself talking familiarly with
them, as if she had known them all her life.  Indeed, she had
quite a long argument with the Lory, who at last turned sulky,
and would only say, `I am older than you, and must know better';
and this Alice would not allow without knowing how old it was,
and, as the Lory positively refused to tell its age, there was no
more to be said.

  At last the Mouse, who seemed to be a person of authority among
them, called out, `Sit down, all of you, and listen to me!  I'LL
soon make you dry enough!'  They all sat down at once, in a large
ring, with the Mouse in the middle.  Alice kept her eyes
anxiously fixed on it, for she felt sure she would catch a bad
cold if she did not get dry very soon.

  `Ahem!' said the Mouse with an important air, `are you all ready?
This is the driest thing I know.  Silence all round, if you please!
"William the Conqueror, whose cause was favoured by the pope, was
soon submitted to by the English, who wanted leaders, and had been
of late much accustomed to usurpation and conquest.  Edwin and
Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria--"'

  `Ugh!' said the Lory, with a shiver.

  `I beg your pardon!' said the Mouse, frowning, but very
politely:  `Did you speak?'

  `Not I!' said the Lory hastily.

  `I thought you did,' said the Mouse.  `--I proceed.  "Edwin and
Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria, declared for him:
and even Stigand, the patriotic archbishop of Canterbury, found
it advisable--"'

  `Found WHAT?' said the Duck.

  `Found IT,' the Mouse replied rather crossly:  `of course you
know what "it" means.'

  `I know what "it" means well enough, when I find a thing,' said
the Duck:  `it's generally a frog or a worm.  The question is,
what did thV ZIXSYRHSLK URMW?'

  GSV NLFHV WRW MLG MLGRXV GSRH JFVHGRLM, YFG SFIIRVWOB DVMG LM,
`"--ULFMW RG ZWERHZYOV GL TL DRGS VWTZI ZGSVORMT GL NVVG DROORZN
ZMW LUUVI SRN GSV XILDM.  DROORZN'H XLMWFXG ZG URIHG DZH
NLWVIZGV.  YFG GSV RMHLOVMXV LU SRH MLINZMH--"  SLD ZIV BLF
TVGGRMT LM MLD, NB WVZI?' RG XLMGRMFVW, GFIMRMT GL ZORXV ZH RG
HKLPV.

  `ZH DVG ZH VEVI,' HZRW ZORXV RM Z NVOZMXSLOB GLMV:  `RG WLVHM'G
HVVN GL WIB NV ZG ZOO.'

  `RM GSZG XZHV,' HZRW GSV WLWL HLOVNMOB, IRHRMT GL RGH UVVG, `R
NLEV GSZG GSV NVVGRMT ZWQLFIM, ULI GSV RNNVWRZGV ZWLKGRLM LU NLIV
VMVITVGRX IVNVWRVH--'

  `HKVZP VMTORHS!' HZRW GSV VZTOVG.  `R WLM'G PMLD GSV NVZMRMT LU
SZOU GSLHV OLMT DLIWH, ZMW, DSZG'H NLIV, R WLM'G YVORVEV BLF WL
VRGSVI!'  ZMW GSV VZTOVG YVMG WLDM RGH SVZW GL SRWV Z HNROV:
HLNV LU GSV LGSVI YRIWH GRGGVIVW ZFWRYOB.

  `DSZG R DZH TLRMT GL HZB,' HZRW GSV WLWL RM ZM LUUVMWVW GLMV,
`DZH, GSZG GSV YVHG GSRMT GL TVG FH WIB DLFOW YV Z XZFXFH-IZXV.'

  `DSZG RH Z XZFXFH-IZXV?' HZRW ZORXV; MLG GSZG HSV DZMGVW NFXS
GL PMLD, YFG GSV WLWL SZW KZFHVW ZH RU RG GSLFTSG GSZG HLNVYLWB
LFTSG GL HKVZP, ZMW ML LMV VOHV HVVNVW RMXORMVW GL HZB ZMBGSRMT.

  `DSB,' HZRW GSV WLWL, `GSV YVHG DZB GL VCKOZRM RG RH GL WL RG.'
(ZMW, ZH BLF NRTSG ORPV GL GIB GSV GSRMT BLFIHVOU, HLNV DRMGVI
WZB, R DROO GVOO BLF SLD GSV WLWL NZMZTVW RG.)

  URIHG RG NZIPVW LFG Z IZXV-XLFIHV, RM Z HLIG LU XRIXOV, (`GSV
VCZXG HSZKV WLVHM'G NZGGVI,' RG HZRW,) ZMW GSVM ZOO GSV KZIGB
DVIV KOZXVW ZOLMT GSV XLFIHV, SVIV ZMW GSVIV.  GSVIV DZH ML `LMV,
GDL, GSIVV, ZMW ZDZB,' YFG GSVB YVTZM IFMMRMT DSVM GSVB ORPVW,
ZMW OVUG LUU DSVM GSVB ORPVW, HL GSZG RG DZH MLG VZHB GL PMLD
DSVM GSV IZXV DZH LEVI.  SLDVEVI, DSVM GSVB SZW YVVM IFMMRMT SZOU
ZM SLFI LI HL, ZMW DVIV JFRGV WIB ZTZRM, GSV WLWL HFWWVMOB XZOOVW
LFG `GSV IZXV RH LEVI!' ZMW GSVB ZOO XILDWVW ILFMW RG, KZMGRMT,
ZMW ZHPRMT, `YFG DSL SZH DLM?'

  GSRH JFVHGRLM GSV WLWL XLFOW MLG ZMHDVI DRGSLFG Z TIVZG WVZO LU
GSLFTSG, ZMW RG HZG ULI Z OLMT GRNV DRGS LMV URMTVI KIVHHVW FKLM
RGH ULIVSVZW (GSV KLHRGRLM RM DSRXS BLF FHFZOOB HVV HSZPVHKVZIV,
RM GSV KRXGFIVH LU SRN), DSROV GSV IVHG DZRGVW RM HROVMXV.  ZG
OZHG GSV WLWL HZRW, `VEVIBYLWB SZH DLM, ZMW ZOO NFHG SZEV
KIRAVH.'

  `YFG DSL RH GL TREV GSV KIRAVH?' JFRGV Z XSLIFH LU ELRXVH
ZHPVW.

  `DSB, HSV, LU XLFIHV,' HZRW GSV WLWL, KLRMGRMT GL ZORXV DRGS
LMV URMTVI; ZMW GSV DSLOV KZIGB ZG LMXV XILDWVW ILFMW SVI,
XZOORMT LFG RM Z XLMUFHVW DZB, `KIRAVH! KIRAVH!'

  ZORXV SZW ML RWVZ DSZG GL WL, ZMW RM WVHKZRI HSV KFG SVI SZMW
RM SVI KLXPVG, ZMW KFOOVW LFG Z YLC LU XLNURGH, (OFXPROB GSV HZOG
DZGVI SZW MLG TLG RMGL RG), ZMW SZMWVW GSVN ILFMW ZH KIRAVH.
GSVIV DZH VCZXGOB LMV Z-KRVXV ZOO ILFMW.

  `YFG HSV NFHG SZEV Z KIRAV SVIHVOU, BLF PMLD,' HZRW GSV NLFHV.

  `LU XLFIHV,' GSV WLWL IVKORVW EVIB TIZEVOB.  `DSZG VOHV SZEV
BLF TLG RM BLFI KLXPVG?' SV DVMG LM, GFIMRMT GL ZORXV.

  `LMOB Z GSRNYOV,' HZRW ZORXV HZWOB.

  `SZMW RG LEVI SVIV,' HZRW GSV WLWL.

  GSVM GSVB ZOO XILDWVW ILFMW SVI LMXV NLIV, DSROV GSV WLWL
HLOVNMOB KIVHVMGVW GSV GSRNYOV, HZBRMT `DV YVT BLFI ZXXVKGZMXV LU
GSRH VOVTZMG GSRNYOV'; ZMW, DSVM RG SZW URMRHSVW GSRH HSLIG
HKVVXS, GSVB ZOO XSVVIVW.

  ZORXV GSLFTSG GSV DSLOV GSRMT EVIB ZYHFIW, YFG GSVB ZOO OLLPVW
HL TIZEV GSZG HSV WRW MLG WZIV GL OZFTS; ZMW, ZH HSV XLFOW MLG
GSRMP LU ZMBGSRMT GL HZB, HSV HRNKOB YLDVW, ZMW GLLP GSV GSRNYOV,
OLLPRMT ZH HLOVNM ZH HSV XLFOW.

  GSV MVCG GSRMT DZH GL VZG GSV XLNURGH:  GSRH XZFHVW HLNV MLRHV
ZMW XLMUFHRLM, ZH GSV OZITV YRIWH XLNKOZRMVW GSZG GSVB XLFOW MLG
GZHGV GSVRIH, ZMW GSV HNZOO LMVH XSLPVW ZMW SZW GL YV KZGGVW LM
GSV YZXP.  SLDVEVI, RG DZH LEVI ZG OZHG, ZMW GSVB HZG WLDM ZTZRM
RM Z IRMT, ZMW YVTTVW GSV NLFHV GL GVOO GSVN HLNVGSRMT NLIV.

  `BLF KILNRHVW GL GVOO NV BLFI SRHGLIB, BLF PMLD,' HZRW ZORXV,
`ZMW DSB RG RH BLF SZGV--X ZMW W,' HSV ZWWVW RM Z DSRHKVI, SZOU
ZUIZRW GSZG RG DLFOW YV LUUVMWVW ZTZRM.

  `NRMV RH Z OLMT ZMW Z HZW GZOV!' HZRW GSV NLFHV, GFIMRMT GL
ZORXV, ZMW HRTSRMT.

  `RG RH Z OLMT GZRO, XVIGZRMOB,' HZRW ZORXV, OLLPRMT WLDM DRGS
DLMWVI ZG GSV NLFHV'H GZRO; `YFG DSB WL BLF XZOO RG HZW?'  ZMW
HSV PVKG LM KFAAORMT ZYLFG RG DSROV GSV NLFHV DZH HKVZPRMT, HL
GSZG SVI RWVZ LU GSV GZOV DZH HLNVGSRMT ORPV GSRH:--

                    `UFIB HZRW GL Z
                   NLFHV, GSZG SV
                 NVG RM GSV
               SLFHV,
            "OVG FH
              YLGS TL GL
                OZD:  R DROO
                  KILHVXFGV
                    BLF.  --XLNV,
                       R'OO GZPV ML
                        WVMRZO; DV
                     NFHG SZEV Z
                 GIRZO:  ULI
              IVZOOB GSRH
           NLIMRMT R'EV
          MLGSRMT
         GL WL."
           HZRW GSV
             NLFHV GL GSV
               XFI, "HFXS
                 Z GIRZO,
                   WVZI HRI,
                         DRGS
                     ML QFIB
                  LI QFWTV,
                DLFOW YV
              DZHGRMT
             LFI
              YIVZGS."
               "R'OO YV
                 QFWTV, R'OO
                   YV QFIB,"
                         HZRW
                    XFMMRMT
                      LOW UFIB:
                     "R'OO
                      GIB GSV
                         DSLOV
                          XZFHV,
                             ZMW
                        XLMWVNM
                       BLF
                      GL
                       WVZGS."'


  `BLF ZIV MLG ZGGVMWRMT!' HZRW GSV NLFHV GL ZORXV HVEVIVOB.
`DSZG ZIV BLF GSRMPRMT LU?'

  `R YVT BLFI KZIWLM,' HZRW ZORXV EVIB SFNYOB:  `BLF SZW TLG GL
GSV URUGS YVMW, R GSRMP?'

  `R SZW MLG!' XIRVW GSV NLFHV, HSZIKOB ZMW EVIB ZMTIROB.

  `Z PMLG!' HZRW ZORXV, ZODZBH IVZWB GL NZPV SVIHVOU FHVUFO, ZMW
OLLPRMT ZMCRLFHOB ZYLFG SVI.  `LS, WL OVG NV SVOK GL FMWL RG!'

  `R HSZOO WL MLGSRMT LU GSV HLIG,' HZRW GSV NLFHV, TVGGRMT FK
ZMW DZOPRMT ZDZB.  `BLF RMHFOG NV YB GZOPRMT HFXS MLMHVMHV!'

  `R WRWM'G NVZM RG!' KOVZWVW KLLI ZORXV.  `YFG BLF'IV HL VZHROB
LUUVMWVW, BLF PMLD!'

  GSV NLFHV LMOB TILDOVW RM IVKOB.

  `KOVZHV XLNV YZXP ZMW URMRHS BLFI HGLIB!' ZORXV XZOOVW ZUGVI
RG; ZMW GSV LGSVIH ZOO QLRMVW RM XSLIFH, `BVH, KOVZHV WL!' YFG
GSV NLFHV LMOB HSLLP RGH SVZW RNKZGRVMGOB, ZMW DZOPVW Z ORGGOV
JFRXPVI.

  `DSZG Z KRGB RG DLFOWM'G HGZB!' HRTSVW GSV OLIB, ZH HLLM ZH RG
DZH JFRGV LFG LU HRTSG; ZMW ZM LOW XIZY GLLP GSV LKKLIGFMRGB LU
HZBRMT GL SVI WZFTSGVI `ZS, NB WVZI!  OVG GSRH YV Z OVHHLM GL BLF
MVEVI GL OLHV BLFI GVNKVI!'  `SLOW BLFI GLMTFV, NZ!' HZRW GSV
BLFMT XIZY, Z ORGGOV HMZKKRHSOB.  `BLF'IV VMLFTS GL GIB GSV
KZGRVMXV LU ZM LBHGVI!'

  `R DRHS R SZW LFI WRMZS SVIV, R PMLD R WL!' HZRW ZORXV ZOLFW,
ZWWIVHHRMT MLYLWB RM KZIGRXFOZI.  `HSV'W HLLM UVGXS RG YZXP!'

  `ZMW DSL RH WRMZS, RU R NRTSG EVMGFIV GL ZHP GSV JFVHGRLM?'
HZRW GSV OLIB.

  ZORXV IVKORVW VZTVIOB, ULI HSV DZH ZODZBH IVZWB GL GZOP ZYLFG
SVI KVG:  `WRMZS'H LFI XZG.  ZMW HSV'H HFXS Z XZKRGZO LMV ULI
XZGXSRMT NRXV BLF XZM'G GSRMP!  ZMW LS, R DRHS BLF XLFOW HVV SVI
ZUGVI GSV YRIWH!  DSB, HSV'OO VZG Z ORGGOV YRIW ZH HLLM ZH OLLP
ZG RG!'

  GSRH HKVVXS XZFHVW Z IVNZIPZYOV HVMHZGRLM ZNLMT GSV KZIGB.
HLNV LU GSV YRIWH SFIIRVW LUU ZG LMXV:  LMV GSV LOW NZTKRV YVTZM
DIZKKRMT RGHVOU FK EVIB XZIVUFOOB, IVNZIPRMT, `R IVZOOB NFHG YV
TVGGRMT SLNV; GSV MRTSG-ZRI WLVHM'G HFRG NB GSILZG!' ZMW Z XZMZIB
XZOOVW LFG RM Z GIVNYORMT ELRXV GL RGH XSROWIVM, `XLNV ZDZB, NB
WVZIH!  RG'H SRTS GRNV BLF DVIV ZOO RM YVW!'  LM EZIRLFH KIVGVCGH
GSVB ZOO NLEVW LUU, ZMW ZORXV DZH HLLM OVUG ZOLMV.

  `R DRHS R SZWM'G NVMGRLMVW WRMZS!' HSV HZRW GL SVIHVOU RM Z
