sure she's the best cat in the world!  Oh, my dear Dinah!  I
wonder if I shall ever see you any more!'  And here poor Alice
began to cry again, for she felt very lonely and low-spirited.
In a little while, however, she again heard a little pattering of
footsteps in the distance, and she looked up eagerly, half hoping
that the Mouse had changed his mind, and was coming back to
finish his story.



                           CHAPTER IV

                The Rabbit Sends in a Little Bill


  It was the White Rabbit, trotting slowly back again, and
looking anxiously about as it went, as if it had lost something;
and she heard it muttering to itself `The Duchess!  The Duchess!
Oh my dear paws!  Oh my fur and whiskers!  She'll get me
executed, as sure as ferrets are ferrets!  Where CAN I have
dropped them, I wonder?'  Alice guessed in a moment that it was
looking for the fan and the pair of white kid gloves, and she
very good-naturedly began hunting about for them, but they were
nowhere to be seen--everything seemed to have changed since her
swim in the pool, and the great hall, with the glass table and
the little door, had vanished completely.

  Very soon the Rabbit noticed Alice, as she went hunting about,
and called out to her in an angry tone, `Why, Mary Ann, what ARE
you doing out here?  Run home this moment, and fetch me a pair of
gloves and a fan!  Quick, now!'  And Alice was so much frightened
that she ran off at once in the direction it pointed to, without
trying to explain the mistake it had made.

  `He took me for his housemaid,' she said to herself as she ran.
`How surprised he'll be when he finds out who I am!  But I'd
better take him his fan and gloves--that is, if I can find them.'
As she said this, she came upon a neat little house, on the door
of which was a bright brass plate with the name `W. RABBIT'
engraved upon it.  She went in without knocking, and hurried
upstairs, in great fear lest she should meet the real Mary Ann,
and be turned out of the house before she had found the fan and
gloves.

  `How queer it seems,' Alice said to herself, `to be going
messages for a rabbit!  I suppose Dinah'll be sending me on
messages next!'  And she began fancying the sort of thing that
would happen:  `"Miss Alice!  Come here directly, and get ready
for your walk!" "Coming in a minute, nurse!  But I've got to see
that the mouse doesn't get out."  Only I don't think,' Alice went
on, `that they'd let Dinah stop in the house if it began ordering
people about like that!'

  By this time she had found her way into a tidy little room with
a table in the window, and on it (as she had hoped) a fan and two
or three pairs of tiny white kid gloves:  she took up the fan and
a pair of the gloves, and was just going to leave the room, when
her eye fell upon a little bottle that stood near the looking-
glass.  There was no label this time with the words `DRINK ME,'
but nevertheless she uncorked it and put it to her lips.  `I know
SOMETHING interesting is sure to happen,' she said to herself,
`whenever I eat or drink anything; so I'll just see what this
bottle does.  I do hope it'll make me grow large again, for
really I'm quite tired of being such a tiny little thing!'

  It did so indeed, and much sooner than she had expected:
before she had drunk half the bottle, she found her head pressing
against the ceiling, and had to stoop to save her neck from being
broken.  She hastily put down the bottle, saying to herself
`That's quite enough--I hope I shan't grow any more--As it is, I
can't get out at the door--I do wish I hadn't drunk quite so
much!'

  Alas! it was too late to wish that!  She went on growing, and
growing, and very soon had to kneel down on the floor:  in
another minute there was not even room for this, and she tried
the effect of lying down with one elbow against the door, and the
other arm curled round her head.  Still she went on growing, and,
as a last resource, she put one arm out of the window, and one
foot up the chimney, and said to herself `Now I can do no more,
whatever happens.  What WILL become of me?'

  Luckily for Alice, the little magic bottle had now had its full
effect, and she grew no larger:  still it was very uncomfortable,
and, as there seemed to be no sort of chance of her ever getting
out of the room again, no wonder she felt unhappy.

  `It was much pleasanter at home,' thought poor Alice, `when one
wasn't always growing larger and smaller, and being ordered about
by mice and rabbits.  I almost wish I hadn't gone down that
rabbit-hole--and yet--and yet--it's rather curious, you know,
this sort of life!  I do wonder what CAN have happened to me!
When I used to read fairy-tales, I fancied that kind of thing
never happened, and now here I am in the middle of one!  There
ought to be a book written about me, that there ought!  And when
I grow up, I'll write one--but I'm grown up now,' she added in a
sorrowful tone; `at least there's no room to grow up any more
HERE.'

  `But then,' thought Alice, `shall I NEVER get any older than I
am now?  That'll be a comfort, one way--never to be an old woman-
-but then--always to have lessons to learn!  Oh, I shouldn't like
THAT!'

  `Oh, you foolish Alice!' she answered herself.  `How can you
learn lessons in here?  Why, there's hardly room for YOU, and no
room at all for any lesson-books!'

  And so she went on, taking first one side and then the other,
and making quite a conversation of it altogether; but after a few
minutes she heard a voice outside, and stopped to listen.

  `Mary Ann!  Mary Ann!' said the voice.  `Fetch me my gloves
this moment!'  Then came a little pattering of feet on the
stairs.  Alice knew it was the Rabbit coming to look for her, and
she trembled till she shook the house, quite forgetting that she
was now about a thousand times as large as the Rabbit, and had no
reason to be afraid of it.

  Presently GSV IZYYRG XZNV FK GL GSV WLLI, ZMW GIRVW GL LKVM RG;
YFG, ZH GSV WLLI LKVMVW RMDZIWH, ZMW ZORXV'H VOYLD DZH KIVHHVW
SZIW ZTZRMHG RG, GSZG ZGGVNKG KILEVW Z UZROFIV.  ZORXV SVZIW RG
HZB GL RGHVOU `GSVM R'OO TL ILFMW ZMW TVG RM ZG GSV DRMWLD.'

  `GSZG BLF DLM'G' GSLFTSG ZORXV, ZMW, ZUGVI DZRGRMT GROO HSV
UZMXRVW HSV SVZIW GSV IZYYRG QFHG FMWVI GSV DRMWLD, HSV HFWWVMOB
HKIVZW LFG SVI SZMW, ZMW NZWV Z HMZGXS RM GSV ZRI.  HSV WRW MLG
TVG SLOW LU ZMBGSRMT, YFG HSV SVZIW Z ORGGOV HSIRVP ZMW Z UZOO,
ZMW Z XIZHS LU YILPVM TOZHH, UILN DSRXS HSV XLMXOFWVW GSZG RG DZH
QFHG KLHHRYOV RG SZW UZOOVM RMGL Z XFXFNYVI-UIZNV, LI HLNVGSRMT
LU GSV HLIG.

  MVCG XZNV ZM ZMTIB ELRXV--GSV IZYYRG'H--`KZG! KZG!  DSVIV ZIV
BLF?'  ZMW GSVM Z ELRXV HSV SZW MVEVI SVZIW YVULIV, `HFIV GSVM
R'N SVIV!  WRTTRMT ULI ZKKOVH, BVI SLMLFI!'

  `WRTTRMT ULI ZKKOVH, RMWVVW!' HZRW GSV IZYYRG ZMTIROB.  `SVIV!
XLNV ZMW SVOK NV LFG LU GSRH!'  (HLFMWH LU NLIV YILPVM TOZHH.)

  `MLD GVOO NV, KZG, DSZG'H GSZG RM GSV DRMWLD?'

  `HFIV, RG'H ZM ZIN, BVI SLMLFI!'  (SV KILMLFMXVW RG `ZIIFN.')

  `ZM ZIN, BLF TLLHV!   DSL VEVI HZD LMV GSZG HRAV?  DSB, RG
UROOH GSV DSLOV DRMWLD!'

  `HFIV, RG WLVH, BVI SLMLFI:  YFG RG'H ZM ZIN ULI ZOO GSZG.'

  `DVOO, RG'H TLG ML YFHRMVHH GSVIV, ZG ZMB IZGV:  TL ZMW GZPV RG
ZDZB!'

  GSVIV DZH Z OLMT HROVMXV ZUGVI GSRH, ZMW ZORXV XLFOW LMOB SVZI
DSRHKVIH MLD ZMW GSVM; HFXS ZH, `HFIV, R WLM'G ORPV RG, BVI
SLMLFI, ZG ZOO, ZG ZOO!'  `WL ZH R GVOO BLF, BLF XLDZIW!' ZMW ZG
OZHG HSV HKIVZW LFG SVI SZMW ZTZRM, ZMW NZWV ZMLGSVI HMZGXS RM
GSV ZRI.  GSRH GRNV GSVIV DVIV GDL ORGGOV HSIRVPH, ZMW NLIV
HLFMWH LU YILPVM TOZHH.  `DSZG Z MFNYVI LU XFXFNYVI-UIZNVH GSVIV
NFHG YV!' GSLFTSG ZORXV.  `R DLMWVI DSZG GSVB'OO WL MVCG!  ZH ULI
KFOORMT NV LFG LU GSV DRMWLD, R LMOB DRHS GSVB XLFOW!  R'N HFIV R
WLM'G DZMG GL HGZB RM SVIV ZMB OLMTVI!'

  HSV DZRGVW ULI HLNV GRNV DRGSLFG SVZIRMT ZMBGSRMT NLIV:  ZG
OZHG XZNV Z IFNYORMT LU ORGGOV XZIGDSVVOH, ZMW GSV HLFMW LU Z
TLLW NZMB ELRXV ZOO GZOPRMT GLTVGSVI:  HSV NZWV LFG GSV DLIWH:
`DSVIV'H GSV LGSVI OZWWVI?--DSB, R SZWM'G GL YIRMT YFG LMV;
YROO'H TLG GSV LGSVI--YROO! UVGXS RG SVIV, OZW!--SVIV, KFG 'VN FK
ZG GSRH XLIMVI--ML, GRV 'VN GLTVGSVI URIHG--GSVB WLM'G IVZXS SZOU
SRTS VMLFTS BVG--LS! GSVB'OO WL DVOO VMLFTS; WLM'G YV KZIGRXFOZI-
-SVIV, YROO! XZGXS SLOW LU GSRH ILKV--DROO GSV ILLU YVZI?--NRMW
GSZG OLLHV HOZGV--LS, RG'H XLNRMT WLDM!  SVZWH YVOLD!' (Z OLFW
XIZHS)--`MLD, DSL WRW GSZG?--RG DZH YROO, R UZMXB--DSL'H GL TL
WLDM GSV XSRNMVB?--MZB, R HSZM'G! BLF WL RG!--GSZG R DLM'G,
GSVM!--YROO'H GL TL WLDM--SVIV, YROO! GSV NZHGVI HZBH BLF'IV GL
TL WLDM GSV XSRNMVB!'

  `LS! HL YROO'H TLG GL XLNV WLDM GSV XSRNMVB, SZH SV?' HZRW
ZORXV GL SVIHVOU.  `HSB, GSVB HVVN GL KFG VEVIBGSRMT FKLM YROO!
R DLFOWM'G YV RM YROO'H KOZXV ULI Z TLLW WVZO:  GSRH URIVKOZXV RH
MZIILD, GL YV HFIV; YFG R GSRMP R XZM PRXP Z ORGGOV!'

  HSV WIVD SVI ULLG ZH UZI WLDM GSV XSRNMVB ZH HSV XLFOW, ZMW
DZRGVW GROO HSV SVZIW Z ORGGOV ZMRNZO (HSV XLFOWM'G TFVHH LU DSZG
HLIG RG DZH) HXIZGXSRMT ZMW HXIZNYORMT ZYLFG RM GSV XSRNMVB XOLHV
ZYLEV SVI:  GSVM, HZBRMT GL SVIHVOU `GSRH RH YROO,' HSV TZEV LMV
HSZIK PRXP, ZMW DZRGVW GL HVV DSZG DLFOW SZKKVM MVCG.

