Bill!' then the Rabbit's voice along--`Catch him, you by the
hedge!' then silence, and then another confusion of voices--`Hold
up his head--Brandy now--Don't choke him--How was it, old fellow?
What happened to you?  Tell us all about it!'

  Last came a little feeble, squeaking voice, (`That's Bill,'
thought Alice,) `Well, I hardly know--No more, thank ye; I'm
better now--but I'm a deal too flustered to tell you--all I know
is, something comes at me like a Jack-in-the-box, and up I goes
like a sky-rocket!'

  `So you did, old fellow!' said the others.

  `We must burn the house down!' said the Rabbit's voice; and
Alice called out as loud as she could, `If you do.  I'll set
Dinah at you!'

  There was a dead silence instantly, and Alice thought to
herself, `I wonder what they WILL do next!  If they had any
sense, they'd take the roof off.'  After a minute or two, they
began moving about again, and Alice heard the Rabbit say, `A
barrowful will do, to begin with.'

  `A barrowful of WHAT?' thought Alice; but she had not long to
doubt, for the next moment a shower of little pebbles came
rattling in at the window, and some of them hit her in the face.
`I'll put a stop to this,' she said to herself, and shouted out,
`You'd better not do that again!' which produced another dead
silence.

  Alice noticed with some surprise that the pebbles were all
turning into little cakes as they lay on the floor, and a bright
idea came into her head.  `If I eat one of these cakes,' she
thought, `it's sure to make SOME change in my size; and as it
can't possibly make me larger, it must make me smaller, I
suppose.'

  So she swallowed one of the cakes, and was delighted to find
that she began shrinking directly.  As soon as she was small
enough to get through the door, she ran out of the house, and
found quite a crowd of little animals and birds waiting outside.
The poor little Lizard, Bill, was in the middle, being held up by
two guinea-pigs, who were giving it something out of a bottle.
They all made a rush at Alice the moment she appeared; but she
ran off as hard as she could, and soon found herself safe in a
thick wood.

  `The first thing I've got to do,' said Alice to herself, as she
wandered about in the wood, `is to grow to my right size again;
and the second thing is to find my way into that lovely garden.
I think that will be the best plan.'

  It sounded an excellent plan, no doubt, and very neatly and
simply arranged; the only difficulty was, that she had not the
smallest idea how to set about it; and while she was peering
about anxiously among the trees, a little sharp bark just over
her head made her look up in a great hurry.

  An enormous puppy was looking down at her with large round
eyes, and feebly stretching out one paw, trying to touch her.
`Poor little thing!' said Alice, in a coaxing tone, and she tried
hard to whistle to it; but she was terribly frightened all the
time at the thought that it might be hungry, in which case it
would be very likely to eat her up in spite of all her coaxing.

  Hardly knowing what she did, she picked up a little bit of
stick, and held it out to the puppy; whereupon the puppy jumped
into the air off all its feet at once, with a yelp of delight,
and rushed at the stick, and made believe to worry it; then Alice
dodged behind a great thistle, to keep herself from being run
over; and the moment she appeared on the other side, the puppy
made another rush at the stick, and tumbled head over heels in
its hurry to get hold of it; then Alice, thinking it was very
like having a game of play with a cart-horse, and expecting every
moment to be trampled under its feet, ran round the thistle
again; then the puppy began a series of short charges at the
stick, running a very little way forwards each time and a long
way back, and barking hoarsely all the while, till at last it sat
down a good way off, panting, with its tongue hanging out of its
mouth, and its great eyes half shut.

  This seemed to Alice a good opportunity for making her escape;
so she set off at once, and ran till she was quite tired and out
of breath, and till the puppy's bark sounded quite faint in the
distance.

  `And yet what a dear little puppy it was!' said Alice, as she
leant against a buttercup to rest herself, and fanned herself
with one of the leaves:  `I should have liked teaching it tricks
very much, if--if I'd only been the right size to do it!  Oh
dear!  I'd nearly forgotten that I've got to grow up again!  Let
me see--how IS it to be managed?  I suppose I ought to eat or
drink something or other; but the great question is, what?'

  The great question certainly was, what?  Alice looked all round
her at the flowers and the blades of grass, but she did not see
anything that looked like the right thing to eat or drink under
the circumstances.  There was a large mushroom growing near her,
about the same height as herself; and when she had looked under
it, and on both sides of it, and behind it, it occurred to her
that she might as well look and see what was on the top of it.

  She stretched herself up on tiptoe, and peeped over the edge of
the mushroom, and her eyes immediately met those of a large
caterpillar, that was sitting on the top with its arms folded,
quietly smoking a long hookah, and taking not the smallest notice
of her or of anything else.



                            CHAPTER V

                    Advice from a Caterpillar


  The Caterpillar and Alice looked at each other for some time in
silence:  at last the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its
mouth, and addressed her in a languid, sleepy voice.

  `Who are YOU?' said the Caterpillar.

  This was not an encouraging opening for a conversation.  Alice
replied, rather shyly, `I--I hardly know, sir, just at present--
at least I know who I WAS when I got up this morning, but I think
I must have been changed several times since then.'

  `What do you mean by that?' said the Caterpillar sternly.
`Explain yourself!'

  `I can't explain MYSELF, I'm afraid, sir' said Alice, `because
I'm not myself, you see.'

  `I don't see,' said the Caterpillar.

  `I'm afraid I can't put it more clearly,' Alice replied very
politely, `for I can't understand it myself to begin with; and
being so many different sizes in a day is very confusing.'

  `It isn't,' said the Caterpillar.

  `Well, perhaps you haven't found it so yet,' said Alice; `but
when you have GL GFIM RMGL Z XSIBHZORH--BLF DROO HLNV WZB, BLF
PMLD--ZMW GSVM ZUGVI GSZG RMGL Z YFGGVIUOB, R HSLFOW GSRMP BLF'OO
UVVO RG Z ORGGOV JFVVI, DLM'G BLF?'

  `MLG Z YRG,' HZRW GSV XZGVIKROOZI.

  `DVOO, KVISZKH BLFI UVVORMTH NZB YV WRUUVIVMG,' HZRW ZORXV;
`ZOO R PMLD RH, RG DLFOW UVVO EVIB JFVVI GL NV.'

  `BLF!' HZRW GSV XZGVIKROOZI XLMGVNKGFLFHOB.  `DSL ZIV BLF?'

  DSRXS YILFTSG GSVN YZXP ZTZRM GL GSV YVTRMMRMT LU GSV
XLMEVIHZGRLM.  ZORXV UVOG Z ORGGOV RIIRGZGVW ZG GSV XZGVIKROOZI'H
NZPRMT HFXS EVIB HSLIG IVNZIPH, ZMW HSV WIVD SVIHVOU FK ZMW HZRW,
EVIB TIZEVOB, `R GSRMP, BLF LFTSG GL GVOO NV DSL BLF ZIV, URIHG.'

  `DSB?' HZRW GSV XZGVIKROOZI.

  SVIV DZH ZMLGSVI KFAAORMT JFVHGRLM; ZMW ZH ZORXV XLFOW MLG
GSRMP LU ZMB TLLW IVZHLM, ZMW ZH GSV XZGVIKROOZI HVVNVW GL YV RM
Z EVIB FMKOVZHZMG HGZGV LU NRMW, HSV GFIMVW ZDZB.

  `XLNV YZXP!' GSV XZGVIKROOZI XZOOVW ZUGVI SVI.  `R'EV HLNVGSRMT
RNKLIGZMG GL HZB!'

  GSRH HLFMWVW KILNRHRMT, XVIGZRMOB:  ZORXV GFIMVW ZMW XZNV YZXP
ZTZRM.

  `PVVK BLFI GVNKVI,' HZRW GSV XZGVIKROOZI.

  `RH GSZG ZOO?' HZRW ZORXV, HDZOOLDRMT WLDM SVI ZMTVI ZH DVOO ZH
HSV XLFOW.

  `ML,' HZRW GSV XZGVIKROOZI.

  ZORXV GSLFTSG HSV NRTSG ZH DVOO DZRG, ZH HSV SZW MLGSRMT VOHV
GL WL, ZMW KVISZKH ZUGVI ZOO RG NRTSG GVOO SVI HLNVGSRMT DLIGS
SVZIRMT.  ULI HLNV NRMFGVH RG KFUUVW ZDZB DRGSLFG HKVZPRMT, YFG
ZG OZHG RG FMULOWVW RGH ZINH, GLLP GSV SLLPZS LFG LU RGH NLFGS
ZTZRM, ZMW HZRW, `HL BLF GSRMP BLF'IV XSZMTVW, WL BLF?'

  `R'N ZUIZRW R ZN, HRI,' HZRW ZORXV; `R XZM'G IVNVNYVI GSRMTH ZH
R FHVW--ZMW R WLM'G PVVK GSV HZNV HRAV ULI GVM NRMFGVH GLTVGSVI!'

  `XZM'G IVNVNYVI DSZG GSRMTH?' HZRW GSV XZGVIKROOZI.

  `DVOO, R'EV GIRVW GL HZB "SLD WLGS GSV ORGGOV YFHB YVV," YFG RG
ZOO XZNV WRUUVIVMG!' ZORXV IVKORVW RM Z EVIB NVOZMXSLOB ELRXV.

  `IVKVZG, "BLF ZIV LOW, UZGSVI DROORZN,"' HZRW GSV XZGVIKROOZI.

  ZORXV ULOWVW SVI SZMWH, ZMW YVTZM:--

    `BLF ZIV LOW, UZGSVI DROORZN,' GSV BLFMT NZM HZRW,
      `ZMW BLFI SZRI SZH YVXLNV EVIB DSRGV;
    ZMW BVG BLF RMXVHHZMGOB HGZMW LM BLFI SVZW--
      WL BLF GSRMP, ZG BLFI ZTV, RG RH IRTSG?'

    `RM NB BLFGS,' UZGSVI DROORZN IVKORVW GL SRH HLM,
      `R UVZIVW RG NRTSG RMQFIV GSV YIZRM;
    YFG, MLD GSZG R'N KVIUVXGOB HFIV R SZEV MLMV,
      DSB, R WL RG ZTZRM ZMW ZTZRM.'

    `BLF ZIV LOW,' HZRW GSV BLFGS, `ZH R NVMGRLMVW YVULIV,
      ZMW SZEV TILDM NLHG FMXLNNLMOB UZG;
    BVG BLF GFIMVW Z YZXP-HLNVIHZFOG RM ZG GSV WLLI--
      KIZB, DSZG RH GSV IVZHLM LU GSZG?'

    `RM NB BLFGS,' HZRW GSV HZTV, ZH SV HSLLP SRH TIVB OLXPH,
      `R PVKG ZOO NB ORNYH EVIB HFKKOV
    YB GSV FHV LU GSRH LRMGNVMG--LMV HSROORMT GSV YLC--
      ZOOLD NV GL HVOO BLF Z XLFKOV?'

    `BLF ZIV LOW,' HZRW GSV BLFGS, `ZMW BLFI QZDH ZIV GLL DVZP
      ULI ZMBGSRMT GLFTSVI GSZM HFVG;
    BVG BLF URMRHSVW GSV TLLHV, DRGS GSV YLMVH ZMW GSV YVZP--
      KIZB SLD WRW BLF NZMZTV GL WL RG?'

    `RM NB BLFGS,' HZRW SRH UZGSVI, `R GLLP GL GSV OZD,
      ZMW ZITFVW VZXS XZHV DRGS NB DRUV;
    ZMW GSV NFHXFOZI HGIVMTGS, DSRXS RG TZEV GL NB QZD,
      SZH OZHGVW GSV IVHG LU NB ORUV.'

    `BLF ZIV LOW,' HZRW GSV BLFGS, `LMV DLFOW SZIWOB HFKKLHV
      GSZG BLFI VBV DZH ZH HGVZWB ZH VEVI;
    BVG BLF YZOZMXVW ZM VVO LM GSV VMW LU BLFI MLHV--
      DSZG NZWV BLF HL ZDUFOOB XOVEVI?'

    `R SZEV ZMHDVIVW GSIVV JFVHGRLMH, ZMW GSZG RH VMLFTS,'
      HZRW SRH UZGSVI; `WLM'G TREV BLFIHVOU ZRIH!
    WL BLF GSRMP R XZM ORHGVM ZOO WZB GL HFXS HGFUU?
      YV LUU, LI R'OO PRXP BLF WLDM HGZRIH!'


