  `Once upon a time there were three little sisters,' the
Dormouse began in a great hurry; `and their names were Elsie,
Lacie, and Tillie; and they lived at the bottom of a well--'

  `What did they live on?' said Alice, who always took a great
interest in questions of eating and drinking.

  `They lived on treacle,' said the Dormouse, after thinking a
minute or two.

  `They couldn't have done that, you know,' Alice gently
remarked; `they'd have been ill.'

  `So they were,' said the Dormouse; `VERY ill.'

  Alice tried to fancy to herself what such an extraordinary ways
of living would be like, but it puzzled her too much, so she went
on:  `But why did they live at the bottom of a well?'

  `Take some more tea,' the March Hare said to Alice, very
earnestly.

  `I've had nothing yet,' Alice replied in an offended tone, `so
I can't take more.'

  `You mean you can't take LESS,' said the Hatter:  `it's very
easy to take MORE than nothing.'

  `Nobody asked YOUR opinion,' said Alice.

  `Who's making personal remarks now?' the Hatter asked
triumphantly.

  Alice did not quite know what to say to this:  so she helped
herself to some tea and bread-and-butter, and then turned to the
Dormouse, and repeated her question.  `Why did they live at the
bottom of a well?'

  The Dormouse again took a minute or two to think about it, and
then said, `It was a treacle-well.'

  `There's no such thing!'  Alice was beginning very angrily, but
the Hatter and the March Hare went `Sh! sh!' and the Dormouse
sulkily remarked, `If you can't be civil, you'd better finish the
story for yourself.'

  `No, please go on!' Alice said very humbly; `I won't interrupt
again.  I dare say there may be ONE.'

  `One, indeed!' said the Dormouse indignantly.  However, he
consented to go on.  `And so these three little sisters--they
were learning to draw, you know--'

  `What did they draw?' said Alice, quite forgetting her promise.

  `Treacle,' said the Dormouse, without considering at all this
time.

  `I want a clean cup,' interrupted the Hatter:  `let's all move
one place on.'

  He moved on as he spoke, and the Dormouse followed him:  the
March Hare moved into the Dormouse's place, and Alice rather
unwillingly took the place of the March Hare.  The Hatter was the
only one who got any advantage from the change:  and Alice was a
good deal worse off than before, as the March Hare had just upset
the milk-jug into his plate.

  Alice did not wish to offend the Dormouse again, so she began
very cautiously:  `But I don't understand.  Where did they draw
the treacle from?'

  `You can draw water out of a water-well,' said the Hatter; `so
I should think you could draw treacle out of a treacle-well--eh,
stupid?'

  `But they were IN the well,' Alice said to the Dormouse, not
choosing to notice this last remark.

  `Of course they were', said the Dormouse; `--well in.'

  This answer so confused poor Alice, that she let the Dormouse
go on for some time without interrupting it.

  `They were learning to draw,' the Dormouse went on, yawning and
rubbing its eyes, for it was getting very sleepy; `and they drew
all manner of things--everything that begins with an M--'

  `Why with an M?' said Alice.

  `Why not?' said the March Hare.

  Alice was silent.

  The Dormouse had closed its eyes by this time, and was going
off into a doze; but, on being pinched by the Hatter, it woke up
again with a little shriek, and went on:  `--that begins with an
M, such as mouse-traps, and the moon, and memory, and muchness--
you know you say things are "much of a muchness"--did you ever
see such a thing as a drawing of a muchness?'

  `Really, now you ask me,' said Alice, very much confused, `I
don't think--'

  `Then you shouldn't talk,' said the Hatter.

  This piece of rudeness was more than Alice could bear:  she got
up in great disgust, and walked off; the Dormouse fell asleep
instantly, and neither of the others took the least notice of her
going, though she looked back once or twice, half hoping that
they would call after her:  the last time she saw them, they were
trying to put the Dormouse into the teapot.

  `At any rate I'll never go THERV ZTZRM!' HZRW ZORXV ZH HSV
KRXPVW SVI DZB GSILFTS GSV DLLW.  `RG'H GSV HGFKRWVHG GVZ-KZIGB R
VEVI DZH ZG RM ZOO NB ORUV!'

  QFHG ZH HSV HZRW GSRH, HSV MLGRXVW GSZG LMV LU GSV GIVVH SZW Z
WLLI OVZWRMT IRTSG RMGL RG.  `GSZG'H EVIB XFIRLFH!' HSV GSLFTSG.
`YFG VEVIBGSRMT'H XFIRLFH GLWZB.  R GSRMP R NZB ZH DVOO TL RM ZG
LMXV.'  ZMW RM HSV DVMG.

  LMXV NLIV HSV ULFMW SVIHVOU RM GSV OLMT SZOO, ZMW XOLHV GL GSV
ORGGOV TOZHH GZYOV.  `MLD, R'OO NZMZTV YVGGVI GSRH GRNV,' HSV
HZRW GL SVIHVOU, ZMW YVTZM YB GZPRMT GSV ORGGOV TLOWVM PVB, ZMW
FMOLXPRMT GSV WLLI GSZG OVW RMGL GSV TZIWVM.  GSVM HSV DVMG GL
DLIP MRYYORMT ZG GSV NFHSILLN (HSV SZW PVKG Z KRVXV LU RG RM SVI
KLXPVW) GROO HSV DZH ZYLFG Z ULLG SRTS:  GSVM HSV DZOPVW WLDM GSV
ORGGOV KZHHZTV:  ZMW GSVM--HSV ULFMW SVIHVOU ZG OZHG RM GSV
YVZFGRUFO TZIWVM, ZNLMT GSV YIRTSG UOLDVI-YVWH ZMW GSV XLLO
ULFMGZRMH.



                          XSZKGVI ERRR

                   GSV JFVVM'H XILJFVG-TILFMW


  Z OZITV ILHV-GIVV HGLLW MVZI GSV VMGIZMXV LU GSV TZIWVM:  GSV
ILHVH TILDRMT LM RG DVIV DSRGV, YFG GSVIV DVIV GSIVV TZIWVMVIH ZG
RG, YFHROB KZRMGRMT GSVN IVW.  ZORXV GSLFTSG GSRH Z EVIB XFIRLFH
GSRMT, ZMW HSV DVMG MVZIVI GL DZGXS GSVN, ZMW QFHG ZH HSV XZNV FK
GL GSVN HSV SVZIW LMV LU GSVN HZB, `OLLP LFG MLD, UREV!  WLM'G TL
HKOZHSRMT KZRMG LEVI NV ORPV GSZG!'

  `R XLFOWM'G SVOK RG,' HZRW UREV, RM Z HFOPB GLMV; `HVEVM QLTTVW
NB VOYLD.'

  LM DSRXS HVEVM OLLPVW FK ZMW HZRW, `GSZG'H IRTSG, UREV!  ZODZBH
OZB GSV YOZNV LM LGSVIH!'

  `BLF'W YVGGVI MLG GZOP!' HZRW UREV.  `R SVZIW GSV JFVVM HZB LMOB
BVHGVIWZB BLF WVHVIEVW GL YV YVSVZWVW!'

  `DSZG ULI?' HZRW GSV LMV DSL SZW HKLPVM URIHG.

  `GSZG'H MLMV LU BLFI YFHRMVHH, GDL!' HZRW HVEVM.

  `BVH, RG RH SRH YFHRMVHH!' HZRW UREV, `ZMW R'OO GVOO SRN--RG
DZH ULI YIRMTRMT GSV XLLP GFORK-ILLGH RMHGVZW LU LMRLMH.'

  HVEVM UOFMT WLDM SRH YIFHS, ZMW SZW QFHG YVTFM `DVOO, LU ZOO
GSV FMQFHG GSRMTH--' DSVM SRH VBV XSZMXVW GL UZOO FKLM ZORXV, ZH
HSV HGLLW DZGXSRMT GSVN, ZMW SV XSVXPVW SRNHVOU HFWWVMOB:  GSV
LGSVIH OLLPVW ILFMW ZOHL, ZMW ZOO LU GSVN YLDVW OLD.

  `DLFOW BLF GVOO NV,' HZRW ZORXV, Z ORGGOV GRNRWOB, `DSB BLF ZIV
KZRMGRMT GSLHV ILHVH?'

  UREV ZMW HVEVM HZRW MLGSRMT, YFG OLLPVW ZG GDL.  GDL YVTZM RM Z
OLD ELRXV, `DSB GSV UZXG RH, BLF HVV, NRHH, GSRH SVIV LFTSG GL
SZEV YVVM Z IVW ILHV-GIVV, ZMW DV KFG Z DSRGV LMV RM YB NRHGZPV;
ZMW RU GSV JFVVM DZH GL URMW RG LFG, DV HSLFOW ZOO SZEV LFI SVZWH
XFG LUU, BLF PMLD.  HL BLF HVV, NRHH, DV'IV WLRMT LFI YVHG, ZULIV
HSV XLNVH, GL--'  ZG GSRH NLNVMG UREV, DSL SZW YVVM ZMCRLFHOB
OLLPRMT ZXILHH GSV TZIWVM, XZOOVW LFG `GSV JFVVM!  GSV JFVVM!'
ZMW GSV GSIVV TZIWVMVIH RMHGZMGOB GSIVD GSVNHVOEVH UOZG FKLM
GSVRI UZXVH.  GSVIV DZH Z HLFMW LU NZMB ULLGHGVKH, ZMW ZORXV
OLLPVW ILFMW, VZTVI GL HVV GSV JFVVM.

  URIHG XZNV GVM HLOWRVIH XZIIBRMT XOFYH; GSVHV DVIV ZOO HSZKVW
ORPV GSV GSIVV TZIWVMVIH, LYOLMT ZMW UOZG, DRGS GSVRI SZMWH ZMW
UVVG ZG GSV XLIMVIH:  MVCG GSV GVM XLFIGRVIH; GSVHV DVIV
LIMZNVMGVW ZOO LEVI DRGS WRZNLMWH, ZMW DZOPVW GDL ZMW GDL, ZH GSV
HLOWRVIH WRW.  ZUGVI GSVHV XZNV GSV ILBZO XSROWIVM; GSVIV DVIV
GVM LU GSVN, ZMW GSV ORGGOV WVZIH XZNV QFNKRMT NVIIROB ZOLMT SZMW
RM SZMW, RM XLFKOVH:  GSVB DVIV ZOO LIMZNVMGVW DRGS SVZIGH.  MVCG
XZNV GSV TFVHGH, NLHGOB PRMTH ZMW JFVVMH, ZMW ZNLMT GSVN ZORXV
IVXLTMRHVW GSV DSRGV IZYYRG:  RG DZH GZOPRMT RM Z SFIIRVW MVIELFH
NZMMVI, HNRORMT ZG VEVIBGSRMT GSZG DZH HZRW, ZMW DVMG YB DRGSLFG
