Concurring with these remarks, DALY closed the session with the thought that
the more that producers produced for teachers and for scholars to use with
their students, the more successful their electronic products would prove.

                                 ******

SESSION II.  SHOW AND TELL

Jacqueline HESS, director, National Demonstration Laboratory, served as
moderator of the "show-and-tell" session.  She noted that a
question-and-answer period would follow each presentation.

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
MYLONAS * Overview and content of Perseus * Perseus' primary materials
exist in a system-independent, archival form * A concession * Textual
aspects of Perseus * Tools to use with the Greek text * Prepared indices
and full-text searches in Perseus * English-Greek word search leads to
close study of words and concepts * Navigating Perseus by tracing down
indices * Using the iconography to perform research *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Elli MYLONAS, managing editor, Perseus Project, Harvard University, first
gave an overview of Perseus, a large, collaborative effort based at
Harvard University but with contributors and collaborators located at
numerous universities and colleges in the United States (e.g., Bowdoin,
Maryland, Pomona, Chicago, Virginia).  Funded primarily by the
Annenberg/CPB Project, with additional funding from Apple, Harvard, and
the Packard Humanities Institute, among others, Perseus is a multimedia,
hypertextual database for teaching and research on classical Greek
civilization, which was released in February 1992 in version 1.0 and
distributed by Yale University Press.

Consisting entirely of primary materials, Perseus includes ancient Greek
texts and translations of those texts; catalog entries--that is, museum
catalog entries, not library catalog entries--on vases, sites, coins,
sculpture, and archaeological objects; maps; and a dictionary, among
other sources.  The number of objects and the objects for which catalog
entries exist are accompanied by thousands of color images, which
constitute a major feature of the database.  Perseus contains
approximately 30 megabytes of text, an amount that will double in
subsequent versions.  In addition to these primary materials, the Perseus
Project has been building tools for using them, making access and
navigation easier, the goal being to build part of the electronic
environment discussed earlier in the morning in which students or
scholars can work with their sources.

The demonstration of Perseus will show only a fraction of the real work
that has gone into it, because the project had to face the dilemma of
what to enter when putting something into machine-readable form:  should
one aim for very high quality or make concessions in order to get the
material in?  Since Perseus decided to opt for very high quality, all of
its primary materials exist in a system-independent--insofar as it is
possible to be system-independent--archival form.  Deciding what that
archival form would be and attaining it required much work and thought.
For example, all the texts are marked up in SGML, which will be made
compatible with the guidelines of the Text Encoding Initiative (TEI) when
they are issued.

Drawings are postscript files, not meeting international standards, but
at least designed to go across platforms.  Images, or rather the real
archival forms, consist of the best available slides, which are being
digitized.  Much of the catalog material exists in database form--a form
that the average user could use, manipulate, and display on a personal
computer, but only at great cost.  Thus, this is where the concession
comes in:  All of this rich, well-marked-up information is stripped of
much of its content; the images are converted into bit-maps and the text
into small formatted chunks.  All this information can then be imported
into HyperCard and run on a mid-range Macintosh, which is what Perseus
users have.  This fact has made it possible for Perseus to attain wide
use fairly rapidly.  Without those archival forms the HyperCard version
being demonstrated could not be made easily, and the project could not
have the potential to move to other forms and machines and software as
they appear, none of which information is in Perseus on the CD.

Of the numerous multimedia aspects of Perseus, MYLONAS focused on the
textual.  Part of what makes Perseus such a pleasure to use, MYLONAS
said, is this effort at seamless integration and the ability to move
around both visual and textual material.  Perseus also made the decision
not to attempt to interpret its material any more than one interprets by
selecting.  But, MYLONAS emphasized, Perseus is not courseware:  No
syllabus exists.  There is no effort to define how one teaches a topic
using Perseus, although the project may eventually collect papers by
people who have used it to teach.  Rather, Perseus aims to provide
primary material in a kind of electronic library, an electronic sandbox,
so to say, in which students and scholars who are working on this
material can explore by themselves.  With that, MYLONAS demonstrated
Perseus, beginning with the Perseus gateway, the first thing one sees
upon opening Perseus--an effort in part to solve the contextualizing
problem--which tells the user what the system contains.

MYLONAS demonstrated only a very small portion, beginning with primary
texts and running off the CD-ROM.  Having selected Aeschylus' Prometheus
Bound, which was viewable in Greek and English pretty much in the same
segments together, MYLONAS demonstrated tools to use with the Greek text,
something not possible with a book:  looking up the dictionary entry form
of an unfamiliar word in Greek after subjecting it to Perseus'
morphological analysis for all the texts.  After finding out about a
word, a user may then decide to see if it is used anywhere else in Greek.
Because vast amounts of indexing support all of the primary material, one
can find out where else all forms of a particular Greek word appear--
often not a trivial matter because Greek is highly inflected.  Further,
since the story of Prometheus has to do with the origins of sacrifice, a
user may wish to study and explore sacrifice in Greek literature; by
typing sacrifice into a small window, a user goes to the English-Greek
word list--something one cannot do without the computer (Perseus has
indexed the definitions of its dictionary)--the string sacrifice appears
in the definitions of these sixty-five words.  One may then find out
where any of those words is used in the work(s) of a particular author.
The English definitions are not lemmatized.

All of the indices driving this kind of usage were originally devised for
speed, MYLONAS observed; in other words, all that kind of information--
all forms of all words, where they exist, the dictionary form they belong
to--were collected into databases, which will expedite searching.  Then
it was discovered that one can do things searching in these databases
that could not be done searching in the full texts.  Thus, although there
are full-text searches in Perseus, much of the work is done behind the
scenes, using prepared indices.  Re the indexing that is done behind the
scenes, MYLONAS pointed out that without the SGML forms of the text, it
could not be done effectively.  Much of this indexing is based on the
structures that are made explicit by the SGML tagging.

It was found that one of the things many of Perseus' non-Greek-reading
users do is start from the dictionary and then move into the close study
of words and concepts via this kind of English-Greek word search, by which
means they might select a concept.  This exercise has been assigned to
students in core courses at Harvard--to study a concept by looking for the
English word in the dictionary, finding the Greek words, and then finding
the words in the Greek but, of course, reading across in the English.
That tells them a great deal about what a translation means as well.

Should one also wish to see images that have to do with sacrifice, that
person would go to the object key word search, which allows one to
perform a similar kind of index retrieval on the database of
archaeological objects.  Without words, pictures are useless; Perseus has
not reached the point where it can do much with images that are not
cataloged.  Thus, although it is possible in Perseus with text and images
to navigate by knowing where one wants to end up--for example, a
red-figure vase from the Boston Museum of Fine Arts--one can perform this
kind of navigation very easily by tracing down indices.  MYLONAS
illustrated several generic scenes of sacrifice on vases.  The features
demonstrated derived from Perseus 1.0; version 2.0 will implement even
better means of retrieval.

MYLONAS closed by looking at one of the pictures and noting again that
one can do a great deal of research using the iconography as well as the
texts.  For instance, students in a core course at Harvard this year were
highly interested in Greek concepts of foreigners and representations of
non-Greeks.  So they performed a great deal of research, both with texts
(e.g., Herodotus) and with iconography on vases and coins, on how the
Greeks portrayed non-Greeks.  At the same time, art historians who study
iconography were also interested, and were able to use this material.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Indexing and searchability of all English words in Perseus *
Several features of Perseus 1.0 * Several levels of customization
possible * Perseus used for general education * Perseus' effects on
education * Contextual information in Perseus * Main challenge and
emphasis of Perseus *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Several points emerged in the discussion that followed MYLONAS's presentation.

Although MYLONAS had not demonstrated Perseus' ability to cross-search
documents, she confirmed that all English words in Perseus are indexed
and can be searched.  So, for example, sacrifice could have been searched
in all texts, the historical essay, and all the catalogue entries with
their descriptions--in short, in all of Perseus.

Boolean logic is not in Perseus 1.0 but will be added to the next
version, although an effort is being made not to restrict Perseus to a
database in which one just performs searching, Boolean or otherwise.  It
is possible to move laterally through the documents by selecting a word
one is interested in and selecting an area of information one is
interested in and trying to look that word up in that area.

Since Perseus was developed in HyperCard, several levels of customization
are possible.  Simple authoring tools exist that allow one to create
annotated paths through the information, which are useful for note-taking
and for guided tours for teaching purposes and for expository writing.
With a little more ingenuity it is possible to begin to add or substitute
material in Perseus.

Perseus has not been used so much for classics education as for general
education, where it seemed to have an impact on the students in the core
course at Harvard (a general required course that students must take in
certain areas).  Students were able to use primary material much more.

The Perseus Project has an evaluation team at the University of Maryland
that has been documenting Perseus' effects on education.  Perseus is very
popular, and anecdotal evidence indicates that it is having an effect at
places other than Harvard, for example, test sites at Ball State
University, Drury College, and numerous small places where opportunities
to use vast amounts of primary data may not exist.  One documented effect
is that archaeological, anthropological, and philological research is
being done by the same person instead of by three different people.

The contextual information in Perseus includes an overview essay, a
fairly linear historical essay on the fifth century B.C. that provides
links into the primary material (e.g., Herodotus, Thucydides, and
Plutarch), via small gray underscoring (on the screen) of linked
passages.  These are handmade links into other material.

To different extents, most of the production work was done at Harvard,
where the people and the equipment are located.  Much of the
collaborative activity involved data collection and structuring, because
the main challenge and the emphasis of Perseus is the gathering of
primary material, that is, building a useful environment for studying
classical Greece, collecting data, and making it useful.
Systems-building is definitely not the main concern.  Thus, much of the
work has involved writing essays, collecting information, rewriting it,
and tagging it.  That can be done off site.  The creative link for the
overview essay as well as for both systems and data was collaborative,
and was forged via E-mail and paper mail with professors at Pomona and
Bowdoin.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
CALALUCA * PLD's principal focus and contribution to scholarship *
Various questions preparatory to beginning the project * Basis for
project * Basic rule in converting PLD * Concerning the images in PLD *
Running PLD under a variety of retrieval softwares * Encoding the
database a hard-fought issue * Various features demonstrated * Importance
of user documentation * Limitations of the CD-ROM version *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Eric CALALUCA, vice president, Chadwyck-Healey, Inc., demonstrated a
software interpretation of the Patrologia Latina Database (PLD).  PLD's
principal focus from the beginning of the project about three-and-a-half
years ago was on converting Migne's Latin series, and in the end,
CALALUCA suggested, conversion of the text will be the major contribution
to scholarship.  CALALUCA stressed that, as possibly the only private
publishing organization at the Workshop, Chadwyck-Healey had sought no
federal funds or national foundation support before embarking upon the
project, but instead had relied upon a great deal of homework and
marketing to accomplish the task of conversion.

Ever since the possibilities of computer-searching have emerged, scholars
in the field of late ancient and early medieval studies (philosophers,
theologians, classicists, and those studying the history of natural law
and the history of the legal development of Western civilization) have
been longing for a fully searchable version of Western literature, for
example, all the texts of Augustine and Bernard of Clairvaux and
Boethius, not to mention all the secondary and tertiary authors.

Various questions arose, CALALUCA said.  Should one convert Migne?
Should the database be encoded?  Is it necessary to do that?  How should
it be delivered?  What about CD-ROM?  Since this is a transitional
medium, why even bother to create software to run on a CD-ROM?  Since
everybody knows people will be networking information, why go to the
trouble--which is far greater with CD-ROM than with the production of
magnetic data?  Finally, how does one make the data available?  Can many
of the hurdles to using electronic information that some publishers have
imposed upon databases be eliminated?

The PLD project was based on the principle that computer-searching of
texts is most effective when it is done with a large database.  Because
PLD represented a collection that serves so many disciplines across so
many periods, it was irresistible.

The basic rule in converting PLD was to do no harm, to avoid the sins of
intrusion in such a database:  no introduction of newer editions, no
on-the-spot changes, no eradicating of all possible falsehoods from an
edition.  Thus, PLD is not the final act in electronic publishing for
this discipline, but simply the beginning.  The conversion of PLD has
evoked numerous unanticipated questions:  How will information be used?
What about networking?  Can the rights of a database be protected?
Should one protect the rights of a database?  How can it be made
available?

Those converting PLD also tried to avoid the sins of omission, that is,
excluding portions of the collections or whole sections.  What about the
images?  PLD is full of images, some are extremely pious
nineteenth-century representations of the Fathers, while others contain
highly interesting elements.  The goal was to cover all the text of Migne
(including notes, in Greek and in Hebrew, the latter of which, in
particular, causes problems in creating a search structure), all the
indices, and even the images, which are being scanned in separately
searchable files.

Several North American institutions that have placed acquisition requests
for the PLD database have requested it in magnetic form without software,
which means they are already running it without software, without
anything demonstrated at the Workshop.

What cannot practically be done is go back and reconvert and re-encode
data, a time-consuming and extremely costly enterprise.  CALALUCA sees
PLD as a database that can, and should, be run under a variety of
retrieval softwares.  This will permit the widest possible searches.
Consequently, the need to produce a CD-ROM of PLD, as well as to develop
software that could handle some 1.3 gigabyte of heavily encoded text,
developed out of conversations with collection development and reference
librarians who wanted software both compassionate enough for the
pedestrian but also capable of incorporating the most detailed
lexicographical studies that a user desires to conduct.  In the end, the
encoding and conversion of the data will prove the most enduring
testament to the value of the project.

The encoding of the database was also a hard-fought issue:  Did the
database need to be encoded? Were there normative structures for encoding
humanist texts?  Should it be SGML?  What about the TEI--will it last,
will it prove useful?  CALALUCA expressed some minor doubts as to whether
a data bank can be fully TEI-conformant.  Every effort can be made, but
in the end to be TEI-conformant means to accept the need to make some
firm encoding decisions that can, indeed, be disputed.  The TEI points
the publisher in a proper direction but does not presume to make all the
decisions for him or her.  Essentially, the goal of encoding was to
eliminate, as much as possible, the hindrances to information-networking,
so that if an institution acquires a database, everybody associated with
the institution can have access to it.

CALALUCA demonstrated a portion of Volume 160, because it had the most
anomalies in it.  The software was created by Electronic Book
Technologies of Providence, RI, and is called Dynatext.  The software
works only with SGML-coded data.

Viewing a table of contents on the screen, the audience saw how Dynatext
treats each element as a book and attempts to simplify movement through a
volume.  Familiarity with the Patrologia in print (i.e., the text, its
source, and the editions) will make the machine-readable versions highly
useful.  (Software with a Windows application was sought for PLD,
CALALUCA said, because this was the main trend for scholarly use.)

CALALUCA also demonstrated how a user can perform a variety of searches
and quickly move to any part of a volume; the look-up screen provides
some basic, simple word-searching.

CALALUCA argued that one of the major difficulties is not the software.
Rather, in creating a product that will be used by scholars representing
a broad spectrum of computer sophistication,  user documentation proves
to be the most important service one can provide.

CALALUCA next illustrated a truncated search under mysterium within ten
words of virtus and how one would be able to find its contents throughout
the entire database.  He said that the exciting thing about PLD is that
many of the applications in the retrieval software being written for it
will exceed the capabilities of the software employed now for the CD-ROM
version.  The CD-ROM faces genuine ORNRGZGRLMH, RM GVINH LU HKVVW ZMW
XLNKIVSVMHREVMVHH, RM GSV XIVZGRLM LU Z IVGIRVEZO HLUGDZIV GL IFM RG.
XZOZOFXZ HZRW SV SLKVW GSZG RMWRERWFZO HXSLOZIH DROO WLDMOLZW GSV WZGZ,
RU GSVB DRHS, GL GSVRI KVIHLMZO XLNKFGVIH, ZMW SZEV IVZWB ZXXVHH GL
RNKLIGZMG GVCGH LM Z XLMHGZMG YZHRH, DSRXS GSVB DROO YV ZYOV GL FHV RM
GSVRI IVHVZIXS ZMW UILN DSRXS GSVB NRTSG VEVM YV ZYOV GL KFYORHS.

(XZOZOFXZ VCKOZRMVW GSZG GSV YOFV MFNYVIH IVKIVHVMGVW NRTMV'H XLOFNM MFNYVIH,
DSRXS ZIV GSV HGZMWZIW HXSLOZIOB IVUVIVMXVH.  KFOORMT FK Z MLGV, SV HGZGVW
GSZG GSVHV GVCGH DVIV SVZEROB VWRGVW ZMW GSV RNZTV UROVH DLFOW ZKKVZI HRNKOB
ZH Z MLGV ZH DVOO, HL GSZG LMV XLFOW JFRXPOB ZXXVHH ZM RNZTV.)

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
UOVRHXSSZFVI/VIDZB * HVEVIZO KILYOVNH DRGS DSRXS ZN RH HGROO DIVHGORMT *
EZIRLFH HVZIXS ZMW IVGIRVEZO XZKZYRORGRVH * ROOFHGIZGRLM LU ZFGLNZGRX
HGVNNRMT ZMW Z GIFMXZGVW HVZIXS * ZN'H ZGGVNKG GL URMW DZBH GL XLMMVXG
XZGZOLTRMT GL GSV GVCGH * ZN'H TIZERGZGRLM GLDZIWH HTNO * HGIRPRMT Z
YZOZMXV YVGDVVM JFZMGRGB ZMW JFZORGB * SLD ZN UFIMRHSVH FHVIH IVXLFIHV GL
RNZTVH * XLMWFXGRMT Z HVZIXS RM Z UFOO-GVCG VMERILMNVMG * NZXRMGLHS ZMW
RYN KILGLGBKVH LU ZN * NFOGRNVWRZ ZHKVXGH LU ZN *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Z WVNLMHGIZGRLM LU ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB YB RGH XLLIWRMZGLI, XZIO UOVRHXSSZFVI,
ZMW IRXPB VIDZB, ZHHLXRZGV XLLIWRMZGLI, ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH, XLMXOFWVW
GSV NLIMRMT HVHHRLM.  YVTRMMRMT DRGS Z XLOOVXGRLM LU YILZWHRWVH UILN GSV
XLMGRMVMGZO XLMTIVHH ZMW GSV XLMHGRGFGRLMZO XLMEVMGRLM, GSV LMOB GVCG
XLOOVXGRLM RM Z KIVHVMGZYOV ULIN ZG GSV GRNV LU GSV DLIPHSLK, UOVRHXSSZFVI
SRTSORTSGVW HVEVIZO LU GSV KILYOVNH DRGS DSRXS ZN RH HGROO DIVHGORMT.
(RM RGH URMZO ULIN, GSV WRHP DROO XLMGZRM GDL XLOOVXGRLMH, MLG LMOB GSV
YILZWHRWVH YFG ZOHL GSV UFOO GVCG DRGS ROOFHGIZGRLMH LU Z HVG LU
ZKKILCRNZGVOB 300 ZUIRXZM-ZNVIRXZM KZNKSOVGH UILN GSV KVIRLW 1870 GL 1910.)

ZH UIVVNZM SZW VCKOZRMVW VZIORVI, ZN SZH ZGGVNKGVW GL FHV Z HNZOO ZNLFMG
LU RMGVIKIVGZGRLM GL RMGILWFXV XLOOVXGRLMH.  RM GSV KIVHVMG XZHV, GSV
XLMGIZXGLI, Z XLNKZMB MZNVW JFRXP HLFIXV, RM HROEVI HKIRMT, NW., FHVW
HLUGDZIV XZOOVW GLLOYLLP ZMW KFG GLTVGSVI Z NLWVHGOB RMGVIZXGREV
RMGILWFXGRLM GL GSV XLOOVXGRLM.  ORPV GSV GDL KIVXVWRMT HKVZPVIH,
UOVRHXSSZFVI ZITFVW GSZG GSV IVZO ZHHVG DZH GSV FMWVIOBRMT XLOOVXGRLM.

UOVRHXSSZFVI KILXVVWVW GL WVHXIRYV EZIRLFH HVZIXS ZMW IVGIRVEZO
XZKZYRORGRVH DSROV VIDZB DLIPVW GSV XLNKFGVI.  RM GSRH KZIGRXFOZI KZXPZTV
GSV "TL GL" KFOO-WLDM ZOOLDVW GSV FHVI RM VUUVXG GL QFNK LFG LU GLLOYLLP,
DSVIV GSV RMGVIZXGREV KILTIZN DZH OLXZGVW, ZMW VMGVI GSV GSRIW-KZIGB
HLUGDZIV FHVW YB ZN ULI GSRH GVCG XLOOVXGRLM, DSRXS RH XZOOVW KVIHLMZO
ORYIZIRZM.  GSRH DZH GSV DRMWLDH EVIHRLM LU KVIHLMZO ORYIZIRZM, Z
HLUGDZIV ZKKORXZGRLM KFG GLTVGSVI YB Z XLNKZMB RM ILXPEROOV, NW.

HRMXV GSV YILZWHRWVH XZNV UILN GSV IVELOFGRLMZIB DZI KVIRLW, Z HVZIXS DZH
XLMWFXGVW FHRMT GSV DLIWH YIRGRHS LI DZI, DRGS GSV WVUZFOG LKVIZGLI IVHVG
ZH LI.  UOVRHXSSZFVI WVNLMHGIZGVW YLGS ZFGLNZGRX HGVNNRMT (DSRXS URMWH
LGSVI ULINH LU GSV HZNV ILLG) ZMW Z GIFMXZGVW HVZIXS.  LMV LU KVIHLMZO
ORYIZIRZM'H HGILMTVHG UVZGFIVH, GSV IVOVEZMXV IZMPRMT, DZH IVKIVHVMGVW YB
Z XSZIG GSZG RMWRXZGVW SLD LUGVM DLIWH YVRMT HLFTSG ZKKVZIVW RM
WLXFNVMGH, DRGS GSV LMV IVXVRERMT GSV NLHG "SRGH" LYGZRMRMT GSV SRTSVHG
HXLIV.  GSV "SRG ORHG" GSZG RH HFKKORVW GZPVH GSV IVOVEZMXV IZMPRMT RMGL
ZXXLFMG, NZPRMT GSV URIHG SRG, RM VUUVXG, GSV LMV GSV HLUGDZIV SZH
HVOVXGVW ZH GSV NLHG IVOVEZMG VCZNKOV.
