image quality which, without belaboring the obvious, means different
things for maps, medical X-rays, or broadcast television.  In the case of
documents, THOMA said, image quality boils down to legibility of the
textual parts, and fidelity in the case of gray or color photo print-type
material.  Legibility boils down to scan density, the standard in most
cases being 300 dpi.  Increasing the resolution with scanners that
perform 600 or 1200 dpi, however, comes at a cost.

Better image quality entails at least four different kinds of costs:  1)
equipment costs, because the CCD (i.e., charge-couple device) with
greater number of elements costs more;  2) time costs that translate to
the actual capture costs, because manual labor is involved (the time is
also dependent on the fact that more data has to be moved around in the
machine in the scanning or network devices that perform the scanning as
well as the storage);  3) media costs, because at high resolutions larger
files have to be stored; and 4) transmission costs, because there is just
more data to be transmitted.

But while resolution takes care of the issue of legibility in image
quality, other deficiencies have to do with contrast and elements on the
page scanned or the image that needed to be removed or clarified.  Thus,
THOMA proceeded to illustrate various deficiencies, how they are
manifested, and several techniques to overcome them.

Fixed thresholding was the first technique described, suitable for
black-and-white text, when the contrast does not vary over the page.  One
can have many different threshold levels in scanning devices.  Thus,
THOMA offered an example of extremely poor contrast, which resulted from
the fact that the stock was a heavy red.  This is the sort of image that
when microfilmed fails to provide any legibility whatsoever.  Fixed
thresholding is the way to change the black-to-red contrast to the
desired black-to-white contrast.

Other examples included material that had been browned or yellowed by
age.  This was also a case of contrast deficiency, and correction was
done by fixed thresholding.  A final example boils down to the same
thing, slight variability, but it is not significant.  Fixed thresholding
solves this problem as well.  The microfilm equivalent is certainly legible,
but it comes with dark areas.  Though THOMA did not have a slide of the
microfilm in this case, he did show the reproduced electronic image.

When one has variable contrast over a page or the lighting over the page
area varies, especially in the case where a bound volume has light
shining on it, the image must be processed by a dynamic thresholding
scheme.  One scheme, dynamic averaging, allows the threshold level not to
be fixed but to be recomputed for every pixel from the neighboring
characteristics.  The neighbors of a pixel determine where the threshold
should be set for that pixel.

THOMA showed an example of a page that had been made deficient by a
variety of techniques, including a burn mark, coffee stains, and a yellow
marker.  Application of a fixed-thresholding scheme, THOMA argued, might
take care of several deficiencies on the page but not all of them.
Performing the calculation for a dynamic threshold setting, however,
removes most of the deficiencies so that at least the text is legible.

Another problem is representing a gray level with black-and-white pixels
by a process known as dithering or electronic screening.  But dithering
does not provide good image quality for pure black-and-white textual
material.  THOMA illustrated this point with examples. Although its
suitability for photoprint is the reason for electronic screening or
dithering, it cannot be used for every compound image.  In the document
that was distributed by CXP, THOMA noticed that the dithered image of the
IEEE test chart evinced some deterioration in the text.  He presented an
extreme example of deterioration in the text in which compounded
documents had to be set right by other techniques.  The technique
illustrated by the present example was an image merge in which the page
is scanned twice and the settings go from fixed threshold to the
dithering matrix; the resulting images are merged to give the best
results with each technique.

THOMA illustrated how dithering is also used in nonphotographic or
nonprint materials with an example of a grayish page from a medical text,
which was reproduced to show all of the gray that appeared in the
original.  Dithering provided a reproduction of all the gray in the
original of another example from the same text.

THOMA finally illustrated the problem of bordering, or page-edge,
effects.  Books and bound volumes that are placed on a photocopy machine
or a scanner produce page-edge effects that are undesirable for two
reasons:  1) the aesthetics of the image; after all, if the image is to
be preserved, one does not necessarily want to keep all of its
deficiencies; 2) compression (with the bordering problem THOMA
illustrated, the compression ratio deteriorated tremendously).  One way
to eliminate this more serious problem is to have the operator at the
point of scanning window the part of the image that is desirable and
automatically turn all of the pixels out of that picture to white.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
FLEISCHHAUER * AM's experience with scanning bound materials * Dithering
*
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Carl FLEISCHHAUER, coordinator, American Memory, Library of Congress,
reported AM's experience with scanning bound materials, which he likened
to the problems involved in using photocopying machines.  Very few
devices in the industry offer book-edge scanning, let alone book cradles.
The problem may be unsolvable, FLEISCHHAUER said, because a large enough
market does not exist for a preservation-quality scanner.  AM is using a
Kurzweil scanner, which is a book-edge scanner now sold by Xerox.

Devoting the remainder of his brief presentation to dithering,
FLEISCHHAUER related AM's experience with a contractor who was using
unsophisticated equipment and software to reduce moire patterns from
printed halftones.  AM took the same image and used the dithering
algorithm that forms part of the same Kurzweil Xerox scanner; it
disguised moire patterns much more effectively.

FLEISCHHAUER also observed that dithering produces a binary file which is
useful for numerous purposes, for example, printing it on a laser printer
without having to "re-halftone" it.  But it tends to defeat efficient
compression, because the very thing that dithers to reduce moire patterns
also tends to work against compression schemes.  AM thought the
difference in image quality was worth it.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Relative use as a criterion for POB's selection of books to
be converted into digital form *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the discussion period, WATERS noted that one of the criteria for
selecting books among the 10,000 to be converted into digital image form
would be how much relative use they would receive--a subject still
requiring evaluation.  The challenge will be to understand whether
coherent bodies of material will increase usage or whether POB should
seek material that is being used, scan that, and make it more accessible.
POB might decide to digitize materials that are already heavily used, in
order to make them more accessible and decrease wear on them.  Another
approach would be to provide a large body of intellectually coherent
material that may be used more in digital form than it is currently used
in microfilm.  POB would seek material that was out of copyright.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
BARONAS * Origin and scope of AIIM * Types of documents produced in
AIIM's standards program * Domain of AIIM's standardization work * AIIM's
structure * TC 171 and MS23 * Electronic image management standards *
Categories of EIM standardization where AIIM standards are being
developed *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Jean BARONAS, senior manager, Department of Standards and Technology,
Association for Information and Image Management (AIIM), described the
not-for-profit association and the national and international programs
for standardization in which AIIM is active.

Accredited for twenty-five years as the nation's standards development
organization for document image management, AIIM began life in a library
community developing microfilm standards.  Today the association
maintains both its library and business-image management standardization
activities--and has moved into electronic image-management
standardization (EIM).

BARONAS defined the program's scope.  AIIM deals with:  1) the
terminology of standards and of the technology it uses; 2) methods of
measurement for the systems, as well as quality; 3) methodologies for
users to evaluate and measure quality; 4) the features of apparatus used
to manage and edit images; and 5) the procedures used to manage images.

BARONAS noted that three types of documents are produced in the AIIM
standards program:  the first two, accredited by the American National
Standards Institute (ANSI), are standards and standard recommended
practices.  Recommended practices differ from standards in that they
contain more tutorial information.  A technical report is not an ANSI
standard.  Because AIIM's policies and procedures for developing
standards are approved by ANSI, its standards are labeled ANSI/AIIM,
followed by the number and title of the standard.

BARONAS then illustrated the domain of AIIM's standardization work.  For
example, AIIM is the administrator of the U.S. Technical Advisory Group
(TAG) to the International Standards Organization's (ISO) technical
committee, TC l7l Micrographics and Optical Memories for Document and
Image Recording, Storage, and Use.  AIIM officially works through ANSI in
the international standardization process.

BARONAS described AIIM's structure, including its board of directors, its
standards board of twelve individuals active in the image-management
industry, its strategic planning and legal admissibility task forces, and
its National Standards Council, which is comprised of the members of a
number of organizations who vote on every AIIM standard before it is
published.  BARONAS pointed out that AIIM's liaisons deal with numerous
other standards developers, including the optical disk community, office
and publishing systems, image-codes-and-character set committees, and the
National Information Standards Organization (NISO).

BARONAS illustrated the procedures of TC l7l, which covers all aspects of
image management.  When AIIM's national program has conceptualized a new
project, it is usually submitted to the international level, so that the
member countries of TC l7l can simultaneously work on the development of
the standard or the technical report.  BARONAS also illustrated a classic
microfilm standard, MS23, which deals with numerous imaging concepts that
apply to electronic imaging.  Originally developed in the l970s, revised
in the l980s, and revised again in l991, this standard is scheduled for
another revision.  MS23 is an active standard whereby users may propose
new density ranges and new methods of evaluating film images in the
standard's revision.

BARONAS detailed several electronic image-management standards, for
instance, ANSI/AIIM MS44, a quality-control guideline for scanning 8.5"
by 11" black-and-white office documents.  This standard is used with the
IEEE fax image--a continuous tone photographic image with gray scales,
text, and several continuous tone pictures--and AIIM test target number
2, a representative document used in office document management.

BARONAS next outlined the four categories of EIM standardization in which
AIIM standards are being developed:  transfer and retrieval, evaluation,
optical disc and document scanning applications, and design and
conversion of WLXFNVMGH.  HSV WVGZROVW HVEVIZO LU GSV NZRM KILQVXGH LU
VZXS:  1) RM GSV XZGVTLIB LU RNZTV GIZMHUVI ZMW IVGIRVEZO, Z YR-OVEVO
RNZTV GIZMHUVI ULINZG, ZMHR/ZRRN NH53, DSRXS RH Z KILKLHVW HGZMWZIW GSZG
WVHXIRYVH Z UROV SVZWVI ULI RNZTV GIZMHUVI YVGDVVM FMORPV HBHGVNH DSVM
GSV RNZTVH ZIV XLNKIVHHVW FHRMT T3 ZMW T4 XLNKIVHHRLM; 2) GSV XZGVTLIB LU
RNZTV VEZOFZGRLM, DSRXS RMXOFWVH GSV ZRRN-KILKLHVW GI26 GFGLIRZO LM RNZTV
IVHLOFGRLM (GSRH GVXSMRXZO IVKLIG DROO GIVZG GSV WRUUVIVMXVH ZMW
HRNROZIRGRVH YVGDVVM XOZHHRXZO LI KSLGLTIZKSRX ZMW VOVXGILMRX RNZTRMT);
3) WVHRTM ZMW XLMEVIHRLM, DSRXS RMXOFWVH Z KILKLHVW GVXSMRXZO IVKLIG
XZOOVW "ULINH WVHRTM LKGRNRAZGRLM ULI VRN" (GSRH IVKLIG XLMHRWVIH SLD
TVMVIZO-KFIKLHV YFHRMVHH ULINH XZM YV YVHG WVHRTMVW HL GSZG HXZMMRMT RH
LKGRNRAVW; IVKILTIZKSRX XSZIZXGVIRHGRXH HFXS ZH GBKV, IFOVH, YZXPTILFMW,
GRMG, ZMW XLOLI DROO ORPVDRHV YV GIVZGVW RM GSV GVXSMRXZO IVKLIG); 4)
WRHP ZMW WLXFNVMG HXZMMRMT ZKKORXZGRLMH RMXOFWVH Z KILQVXG Z) LM KOZMMRMT
KOZGGVIH ZMW WRHP NZMZTVNVMG, Y) LM TVMVIZGRMT ZM ZKKORXZGRLM KILUROV ULI
VRN DSVM RNZTVH ZIV HGLIVW ZMW WRHGIRYFGVW LM XW-ILN, ZMW X) LM
VEZOFZGRMT HXHR2, ZMW SLD Z XLNNLM XLNNZMW HVG XZM YV TVMVIZGVW ULI HXHR2
HL GSZG WLXFNVMG HXZMMVIH ZIV NLIV VZHROB RMGVTIZGVW.  (ZMHR/ZRRN NH53
DROO ZOHL ZKKOB GL XLNKIVHHVW RNZTVH.)

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
YZGGRM * GSV RNKORXZGRLMH LU HGZMWZIWH ULI KIVHVIEZGRLM * Z NZQLI
LYHGZXOV GL HFXXVHHUFO XLLKVIZGRLM * Z SRMWIZMXV GL ZXXVHH RM GSV WRTRGZO
VMERILMNVMG * HGZMWZIWH Z WLFYOV-VWTVW HDLIW ULI GSLHV XLMXVIMVW DRGS GSV
KIVHVIEZGRLM LU GSV SFNZM IVXLIW * MVZI-GVIN KILTMLHRH ULI IVORZYOV
ZIXSREZO HGZMWZIWH * KIVHVIEZGRLM XLMXVIMH ULI VOVXGILMRX NVWRZ * MVVW
ULI IVXLMXVKGFZORARMT LFI KIVHVIEZGRLM KIRMXRKOVH * HGZMWZIWH RM GSV IVZO
DLIOW ZMW GSV KLORGRXH LU IVKILWFXGRLM * MVVW GL IVWVURMV GSV XLMXVKG LU
ZIXSREZO ZMW GL YVTRM GL GSRMP RM GVINH LU ORUV XBXOVH * XLLKVIZGRLM ZMW
GSV OZ TFZIWRZ VRTSG * XLMXVIMH TVMVIZGVW YB WRHXFHHRLMH LM GSV KILYOVNH
LU KIVHVIERMT GVCG ZMW RNZTV * TVMVIZO KIRMXRKOVH GL YV ZWLKGVW RM Z
DLIOW DRGSLFG HGZMWZIWH *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

KZGIRXRZ YZGGRM, KIVHRWVMG, GSV XLNNRHHRLM LM KIVHVIEZGRLM ZMW ZXXVHH
(XKZ), ZWWIVHHVW GSV RNKORXZGRLMH LU HGZMWZIWH ULI KIVHVIEZGRLM.  HSV
ORHGVW HVEVIZO ZIVZH DSVIV GSV ORYIZIB KILUVHHRLM ZMW GSV ZMZOLT DLIOW LU
GSV KIRMGVW YLLP SZW NZWV VMLINLFH XLMGIRYFGRLMH LEVI GSV KZHG SFMWIVW
BVZIH--ULI VCZNKOV, RM YRYORLTIZKSRX ULINZGH, YRMWRMT HGZMWZIWH, ZMW, NLHG
RNKLIGZMG, RM WVGVINRMRMT DSZG XLMHGRGFGVH OLMTVERGB LI ZIXSREZO JFZORGB.

ZOGSLFTS HGZMWZIWH SZEV ORTSGVMVW GSV KIVHVIEZGRLM YFIWVM GSILFTS GSV
WVEVOLKNVMG LU MZGRLMZO ZMW RMGVIMZGRLMZO XLOOZYLIZGREV KILTIZNH,
MVEVIGSVOVHH, Z KVIEZHREV NRHGIFHG LU LGSVI KVLKOV'H HGZMWZIWH IVNZRMH Z
NZQLI LYHGZXOV GL HFXXVHHUFO XLLKVIZGRLM, YZGGRM HZRW.

GSV AVZO GL ZXSRVEV KVIUVXGRLM, IVTZIWOVHH LU GSV XLHG, SZH SRMWVIVW
IZGSVI GSZM UZXRORGZGVW ZXXVHH RM HLNV RMHGZMXVH, ZMW RM GSV WRTRGZO
VMERILMNVMG, DSVIV ML IVZO HGZMWZIWH VCRHG, SZH YILFTSG ZM RILMRXZOOB
QFHG IVDZIW.

YZGGRM ZITFVW GSZG HGZMWZIWH ZIV Z WLFYOV-VWTVW HDLIW ULI GSLHV XLMXVIMVW
DRGS GSV KIVHVIEZGRLM LU GSV SFNZM IVXLIW, GSZG RH, GSV KILERHRLM LU
ZXXVHH GL IVXLIWVW PMLDOVWTV RM Z NFOGRGFWV LU NVWRZ ZH UZI RMGL GSV
UFGFIV ZH KLHHRYOV.  HGZMWZIWH ZIV VHHVMGRZO GL UZXRORGZGV
RMGVIXLMMVXGRERGB ZMW ZXXVHH, YFG, YZGGRM HZRW, ZH OBMXS KLRMGVW LFG
BVHGVIWZB, RU HVG GLL HLLM GSVB XZM SRMWVI XIVZGRERGB, VCKZMHRLM LU
XZKZYRORGB, ZMW GSV YILZWVMRMT LU ZXXVHH.  GSV XSZIZXGVIRHGRXH LU
HGZMWZIWH ULI WRTRGZO RNZTVIB WRUUVI IZWRXZOOB UILN GSLHV ULI ZMZOLT
RNZTVIB.  ZMW GSV MZGFIV LU WRTRGZO GVXSMLOLTB RNKORVH XLMGRMFRMT
ELOZGRORGB ZMW XSZMTV.  GL IVRGVIZGV, KIVXRKRGLFH HGZMWZIW-HVGGRMT XZM
RMSRYRG XIVZGRERGB, YFG WVOZBVW HGZMWZIW-HVGGRMT IVHFOGH RM XSZLH.

HRMXV RM YZGGRM'H LKRMRLM GSV MVZI-GVIN KILTMLHRH ULI IVORZYOV ZIXSREZO
HGZMWZIWH, ZH WVURMVW YB ORYIZIRZMH RM GSV ZMZOLT DLIOW, RH KLLI, GDL
ZOGVIMZGREVH IVNZRM:  HGZMWRMT KZG DRGS GSV LOW GVXSMLOLTB, LI
IVXLMXVKGFZORARMT.

KIVHVIEZGRLM XLMXVIMH ULI VOVXGILMRX NVWRZ UZOO RMGL GDL TVMVIZO WLNZRMH.
LMV RH GSV XLMGRMFRMT ZHHFIZMXV LU ZXXVHH GL PMLDOVWTV LIRTRMZOOB
TVMVIZGVW, HGLIVW, WRHHVNRMZGVW, ZMW FHVW RM VOVXGILMRX ULIN.  GSRH
WLNZRM XLMGZRMH HVEVIZO HFYWRERHRLMH, RMXOFWRMT 1) GSV XOLHVW,
KILKIRVGZIB HBHGVNH WRHXFHHVW GSV KIVERLFH WZB, YFMWOVW RMULINZGRLM HFXS
ZH VOVXGILMRX QLFIMZOH ZMW TLEVIMNVMG ZTVMXB IVXLIWH, ZMW VOVXGILMRXZOOB
KILWFXVW LI XZKGFIVW IZD WZGZ; ZMW 2) GSV ZKKORXZGRLM LU WRTRGZO
GVXSMLOLTRVH GL GSV IVULINZGGRMT LU NZGVIRZOH LIRTRMZOOB KFYORHSVW LM Z
WVGVIRLIZGRMT ZMZOLT NVWRFN HFXS ZH ZXRW KZKVI LI ERWVLGZKV.

GSV KIVHVIEZGRLM LU VOVXGILMRX NVWRZ IVJFRIVH Z IVXLMXVKGFZORARMT LU LFI
KIVHVIEZGRLM KIRMXRKOVH WFIRMT Z ELOZGROV, HGZMWZIWOVHH GIZMHRGRLM DSRXS
NZB OZHG UZI OLMTVI GSZM ZMB LU FH VMERHRLM GLWZB.  YZGGRM FITVW GSV
MVXVHHRGB LU HSRUGRMT ULXFH UILN ZHHVHHRMT, NVZHFIRMT, ZMW HVGGRMT
HGZMWZIWH ULI GSV KVINZMVMXV LU GSV NVWRFN GL GSV XLMXVKG LU NZMZTRMT
XLMGRMFRMT ZXXVHH GL RMULINZGRLM HGLIVW LM Z EZIRVGB LU NVWRZ ZMW
IVJFRIRMT Z EZIRVGB LU VEVI-XSZMTRMT SZIWDZIV ZMW HLUGDZIV ULI ZXXVHH--Z
UFMWZNVMGZO HSRUG ULI GSV ORYIZIB KILUVHHRLM.

YZGGRM LUUVIVW Z KIRNVI LM SLD GL NLEV ULIDZIW DRGS IVZHLMZYOV XLMURWVMXV
RM Z DLIOW DRGSLFG HGZMWZIWH.  SVI XLNNVMGH UVOO ILFTSOB RMGL GDL HVXGRLMH:
1) HGZMWZIWH RM GSV IVZO DLIOW ZMW 2) GSV KLORGRXH LU IVKILWFXGRLM.

RM IVTZIW GL IVZO-DLIOW HGZMWZIWH, YZGGRM ZITFVW GSV MVVW GL IVWVURMV GSV
XLMXVKG LU ZIXSREV ZMW GL YVTRM GL GSRMP RM GVINH LU ORUV XBXOVH.  RM
GSV KZHG, GSV MZREV ZHHFNKGRLM GSZG KZKVI DLFOW OZHG ULIVEVI KILWFXVW Z
XZEZORVI ZGGRGFWV GLDZIW ORUV XBXOVH.  GSV GIZMHRVMG MZGFIV LU GSV
VOVXGILMRX NVWRZ SZH XLNKVOOVW KVLKOV GL IVXLTMRAV ZMW ZXXVKG FKUILMG GSV
XLMXVKG LU ORUV XBXOVH RM KOZXV LU KVINZMVMXB.

WRTRGZO HGZMWZIWH SZEV GL YV WVEVOLKVW ZMW HVG RM Z XLLKVIZGREV XLMGVCG
GL VMHFIV VUURXRVMG VCXSZMTV LU RMULINZGRLM.  NLIVLEVI, WFIRMT GSRH
GIZMHRGRLM KVIRLW, TIVZGVI UOVCRYRORGB XLMXVIMRMT SLD XLMXVKGH HFXS ZH
YZXPFK XLKRVH ZMW ZIXSREZO XLKRVH RM GSV XCK ZIV WVURMVW RH MVXVHHZIB,
LI GSV LKKLIGFMRGB GL NLEV ULIDZIW DROO YV OLHG.

RM GVINH LU XLLKVIZGRLM, KZIGRXFOZIOB RM GSV FMREVIHRGB HVGGRMT, YZGGRM
ZOHL ZITFVW GSV MVVW GL ZELRW TLRMT LUU RM Z SFMWIVW WRUUVIVMG
WRIVXGRLMH.  GSV XKZ SZH XZGZOBAVW Z HNZOO TILFK LU FMREVIHRGRVH XZOOVW
GSV OZ TFZIWRZ VRTSG--YVXZFHV OZ TFZIWRZ ZRIKLIG RH DSVIV NVVGRMTH GZPV
KOZXV--SZIEZIW, BZOV, XLIMVOO, KIRMXVGLM, KVMM HGZGV, GVMMVHHVV,
HGZMULIW, ZMW FHX, GL WVEVOLK Z WRTRGZO KIVHVIEZGRLM XLMHLIGRFN GL OLLP
ZG ZOO GSVHV RHHFVH ZMW WVEVOLK WV UZXGL HGZMWZIWH ZH DV NLEV ZOLMT,
RMHGVZW LU DZRGRMT ULI HLNVGSRMT GSZG RH LUURXRZOOB YOVHHVW.  XLMGRMFRMT
GL ZKKOB ZMZOLT EZOFVH ZMW WVURMRGRLMH LU HGZMWZIWH GL GSV WRTRGZO
VMERILMNVMG, YZGGRM HZRW, DROO VUUVXGREVOB OVZW GL ULIUVRGFIV LU GSV
YVMVURGH LU WRTRGZO GVXSMLOLTB GL IVHVZIXS ZMW HXSLOZIHSRK.

FMWVI GSV HVXLMW IFYIRX, GSV KLORGRXH LU IVKILWFXGRLM, YZGGRM IVRGVIZGVW
ZM LUG-NZWV ZITFNVMG XLMXVIMRMT GSV VOVXGILMRX ORYIZIB, MZNVOB, GSZG RG
RH NLIV WRUURXFOG GL GIZMHULIN GSZM GL XIVZGV, ZMW MLDSVIV RH GSZG YVORVU
VCKIVHHVW NLIV WIZNZGRXZOOB GSZM RM GSV XLMEVIHRLM LU YIRGGOV YLLPH GL
MVD NVWRZ.  KIVHVIERMT RMULINZGRLM KFYORHSVW RM VOVXGILMRX NVWRZ RMELOEVH
NZPRMT HFIV GSV RMULINZGRLM IVNZRMH ZXXVHHRYOV ZMW GSZG WRTRGZO
RMULINZGRLM RH MLG OLHG GSILFTS IVKILWFXGRLM.  RM GSV ZMZOLT DLIOW LU
KSLGLXLKRVH ZMW NRXILURON, GSV RHHFV LU URWVORGB GL GSV LIRTRMZO YVXLNVH
KZIZNLFMG, ZH WL RHHFVH LU "DSLHV URWVORGB?" ZMW "DSLHV LIRTRMZO?"

YZGGRM VOZYLIZGVW GSVHV ZITFNVMGH DRGS Z UVD VCZNKOVH UILN Z IVXVMG HGFWB
XLMWFXGVW YB GSV XKZ LM GSV KILYOVNH LU KIVHVIERMT GVCG ZMW RNZTV.
WRHXFHHRLMH DRGS HXSLOZIH, ORYIZIRZMH, ZMW XFIZGLIH RM Z EZIRVGB LU
WRHXRKORMVH WVKVMWVMG LM GVCG ZMW RNZTV TVMVIZGVW Z EZIRVGB LU XLMXVIMH,
ULI VCZNKOV:  1) XLKB DSZG RH, MLG DSZG GSV GVXSMLOLTB RH XZKZYOV LU.
GSRH RH EVIB RNKLIGZMG ULI GSV SRHGLIB LU RWVZH.  HXSLOZIH DRHS GL PMLD
DSZG GSV ZFGSLI HZD ZMW DLIPVW UILN.  ZMW NZPV ZEZROZYOV ZG GSV
DLIPHGZGRLM GSV LKKLIGFMRGB GL VIZHV ZOO GSV WVUVXGH ZMW VMSZMXV GSV
KIVHVMGZGRLM.  2) GSV URWVORGB LU IVKILWFXGRLM--DSZG RH TLLW VMLFTS, DSZG
XZM DV ZUULIW, ZMW GSV WRUUVIVMXV RG NZPVH--RHHFVH LU HFYQVXGREV EVIHFH
LYQVXGREV IVHLOFGRLM.  3) GSV WRUUVIVMXVH YVGDVVM KIRNZIB ZMW HVXLMWZIB
FHVIH.  IVHGIRXGRMT GSV WVURMRGRLM LU KIRNZIB FHVI GL GSV LMV RM DSLHV
WRHXRKORMV GSV NZGVIRZO SZH YVVM KFYORHSVW IFMH LMV SVZWOLMT RMGL GSV
IVZORGB GSZG GSVHV KIRMGVW YLLPH SZEV SZW Z SLHG LU LGSVI FHVIH UILN Z
SLHG LU LGSVI WRHXRKORMVH, DSL MLG LMOB DVIV OLLPRMT ULI EVIB WRUUVIVMG
GSRMTH, YFG DSL ZOHL HSZIVW EZOFVH EVIB WRUUVIVMG UILN GSLHV LU GSV
KIRNZIB FHVI.  4) GSV IVOZGRLMHSRK LU GSV HGZMWZIW LU IVKILWFXGRLM GL MVD
XZKZYRORGRVH LU HXSLOZIHSRK--GSV YILDHRMT HGZMWZIW EVIHFH ZM ZIXSREZO
HGZMWZIW.  SLD TLLW NFHG GSV ZIXSREZO HGZMWZIW YV?  XZM Z WRHGRMXGRLM YV
WIZDM YVGDVVM KLGVMGRZO FHVIH RM HVGGRMT HGZMWZIWH ULI IVKILWFXGRLM?
ZIXSREZO HGLIZTV, FHV XLKRVH, YILDHRMT XLKRVH--LFTSG ZM ZGGVNKG GL HVG
HGZMWZIWH VEVM YV NZWV?  5) URMZOOB, XLHGH.  SLD NFXS ZIV DV KIVKZIVW GL
KZB GL XZKGFIV ZYHLOFGV URWVORGB?  DSZG ZIV GSV GIZWV-LUUH YVGDVVM EZHGOB
VMSZMXVW ZXXVHH, WVTIVVH LU URWVORGB, ZMW XLHGH?

GSVHV HGZMWZIWH, YZGGRM XLMXOFWVW, HVIEV GL XLNKORXZGV UFIGSVI GSV
IVKILWFXGRLM KILXVHH, ZMW ZWW GL GSV OLMT ORHG LU GVXSMRXZO HGZMWZIWH
GSZG ZIV MVXVHHZIB GL VMHFIV DRWVHKIVZW ZXXVHH.  DZBH GL ZIGRXFOZGV ZMW
ZMZOBAV GSV XLHGH GSZG ZIV ZGGZXSVW GL GSV WRUUVIVMG OVEVOH LU HGZMWZIWH
NFHG YV ULFMW.

TREVM GSV XSZLH XLMXVIMRMT HGZMWZIWH, DSRXS KILNRHVH GL ORMTVI ULI GSV
ULIVHVVZYOV UFGFIV, YZGGRM FITVW ZWLKGRLM LU GSV ULOOLDRMT TVMVIZO
KIRMXRKOVH:

     * HGIREV GL FMWVIHGZMW GSV XSZMTRMT RMULINZGRLM IVJFRIVNVMGH LU
     HXSLOZIOB WRHXRKORMVH ZH NLIV ZMW NLIV GVXSMLOLTB RH RMGVTIZGVW RMGL
     GSV KILXVHH LU IVHVZIXS ZMW HXSLOZIOB XLNNFMRXZGRLM RM LIWVI GL NVVG
     UFGFIV HXSLOZIOB MVVWH, MLG GL YFROW ULI GSV KZHG.  XZKGFIV
