distinguish among them.

Office Document Architecture (ODA) has some advantages that flow from its
tight focus on office documents and clear directions for implementation.
Much of the ODA standard is easier to read and clearer at first reading
than the SGML standard, which is extremely general.  What that means is
that if one wants to use graphics in TIFF and ODA, one is stuck, because
ODA defines graphics formats while TIFF does not, whereas SGML says the
world is not waiting for this work group to create another graphics format.
What is needed is an ability to use whatever graphics format one wants.

The TEI provides a socket that allows one to connect the SGML document to
the graphics.  The notation that the graphics are in is clearly a choice
that one needs to make based on her or his environment, and that is one
advantage.  SGML is less megalomaniacal in attempting to define formats
for all kinds of information, though more megalomaniacal in attempting to
cover all sorts of documents.  The other advantage is that the model of
text represented by SGML is simply an order of magnitude richer and more
flexible than the model of text offered by ODA.  Both offer hierarchical
structures, but SGML recognizes that the hierarchical model of the text
that one is looking at may not have been in the minds of the designers,
whereas ODA does not.

ODA is not really aiming for the kind of document that the TEI wants to
encompass.  The TEI can handle the kind of material ODA has, as well as a
significantly broader range of material.  ODA seems to be very much
focused on office documents, which is what it started out being called--
office document architecture.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
CALALUCA * Text-encoding from a publisher's perspective *
Responsibilities of a publisher * Reproduction of Migne's Latin series
whole and complete with SGML tags based on perceived need and expected
use * Particular decisions arising from the general decision to produce
and publish PLD *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

The final speaker in this session, Eric CALALUCA, vice president,
Chadwyck-Healey, Inc., spoke from the perspective of a publisher re
text-encoding, rather than as one qualified to discuss methods of
encoding data, and observed that the presenters sitting in the room,
whether they had chosen to or not, were acting as publishers:  making
choices, gathering data, gathering information, and making assessments.
CALALUCA offered the hard-won conviction that in publishing very large
text files (such as PLD), one cannot avoid making personal judgments of
appropriateness and structure.

In CALALUCA's view, encoding decisions stem from prior judgments.  Two
notions have become axioms for him in the consideration of future sources
for electronic publication:  1) electronic text publishing is as personal
as any other kind of publishing, and questions of if and how to encode
the data are simply a consequence of that prior decision;  2) all
personal decisions are open to criticism, which is unavoidable.

CALALUCA rehearsed his role as a publisher or, better, as an intermediary
between what is viewed as a sound idea and the people who would make use
of it.  Finding the specialist to advise in this process is the core of
that function.  The publisher must monitor and hug the fine line between
giving users what they want and suggesting what they might need.  One
responsibility of a publisher is to represent the desires of scholars and
research librarians as opposed to bullheadedly forcing them into areas
they would not choose to enter.

CALALUCA likened the questions being raised today about data structure
and standards to the decisions faced by the Abbe Migne himself during
production of the Patrologia series in the mid-nineteenth century.
Chadwyck-Healey's decision to reproduce Migne's Latin series whole and
complete with SGML tags was also based upon a perceived need and an
expected use.  In the same way that Migne's work came to be far more than
a simple handbook for clerics, PLD is already far more than a database
for theologians.  It is a bedrock source for the study of Western
civilization, CALALUCA asserted.

In regard to the decision to produce and publish PLD, the editorial board
offered direct judgments on the question of appropriateness of these
texts for conversion, their encoding and their distribution, and
concluded that the best possible project was one that avoided overt
intrusions or exclusions in so important a resource.  Thus, the general
decision to transmit the original collection as clearly as possible with
the widest possible avenues for use led to other decisions:  1) To encode
the data or not, SGML or not, TEI or not.  Again, the expected user
community asserted the need for normative tagging structures of important
humanities texts, and the TEI seemed the most appropriate structure for
that purpose.  Research librarians, who are trained to view the larger
impact of electronic text sources on 80 or 90 or 100 doctoral
disciplines, loudly approved the decision to include tagging.  They see
what is coming better than the specialist who is completely focused on
one edition of Ambrose's De Anima, and they also understand that the
potential uses exceed present expectations.  2) What will be tagged and
what will not.  Once again, the board realized that one must tag the
obvious.  But in no way should one attempt to identify through encoding
schemes every single discrete area of a text that might someday be
searched.  That was another decision.  Searching by a column number, an
author, a word, a volume, permitting combination searches, and tagging
notations seemed logical choices as core elements.  3) How does one make
the data available?  Tieing it to a CD-ROM edition creates limitations,
but a magnetic tape file that is very large, is accompanied by the
encoding specifications, and that allows one to make local modifications
also allows one to incorporate any changes one may desire within the
bounds of private research, though exporting tag files from a CD-ROM
could serve just as well.  Since no one on the board could possibly
anticipate each and every way in which a scholar might choose to mine
this data bank, it was decided to satisfy the basics and make some
provisions for what might come.  4) Not to encode the database would rob
it of the interchangeability and portability these important texts should
accommodate.  For CALALUCA, the extensive options presented by full-text
searching require care in text selection and strongly support encoding of
data to facilitate the widest possible search strategies.  Better
software can always be created, but summoning the resources, the people,
and the energy to reconvert the text is another matter.

PLD is being encoded, captured, and distributed, because to
Chadwyck-Healey and the board it offers the widest possible array of
future research applications that can be seen today.  CALALUCA concluded
by urging the encoding of all important text sources in whatever way
seems most appropriate and durable at the time, without blanching at the
thought that one's work may require emendation in the future.  (Thus,
Chadwyck-Healey produced a very large humanities text database before the
final release of the TEI Guidelines.)

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Creating texts with markup advocated * Trends in encoding *
The TEI and the issue of interchangeability of standards * A
misconception concerning the TEI * Implications for an institution like
LC in the event that a multiplicity of DTDs develops * Producing images
as a first step towards possible conversion to full text through
character recognition * The AAP tag sets as a common starting point and
the need for caution *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

HOCKEY prefaced the discussion that followed with several comments in
favor of creating texts with markup and on trends in encoding.  In the
future, when many more texts are available for on-line searching, real
problems in finding what is wanted will develop, if one is faced with
millions of words of data.  It therefore becomes important to consider
putting markup in texts to help searchers home in on the actual things
they wish to retrieve.  Various approaches to refining retrieval methods
toward this end include building on a computer version of a dictionary
and letting the computer look up words in it to obtain more information
about the semantic structure or semantic field of a word, its grammatical
structure, and syntactic structure.

HOCKEY commented on the present keen interest in the encoding world
in creating:  1) machine-readable versions of dictionaries that can be
initially tagged in SGML, which gives a structure to the dictionary entry;
these entries can then be converted into a more rigid or otherwise
different database structure inside the computer, which can be treated as
a dynamic tool for searching mechanisms; 2) large bodies of text to study
the language.  In order to incorporate more sophisticated mechanisms,
more about how words behave needs to be known, which can be learned in
part from information in dictionaries.  However, the last ten years have
seen much interest in studying the structure of printed dictionaries
converted into computer-readable form.  The information one derives about
many words from those is only partial, one or two definitions of the
common or the usual meaning of a word, and then numerous definitions of
unusual usages.  If the computer is using a dictionary to help retrieve
words in a text, it needs much more information about the common usages,
because those are the ones that occur over and over again.  Hence the
current interest in developing large bodies of text in computer-readable
form in order to study the language.  Several projects are engaged in
compiling, for example, 100 million words. HOCKEY described one with
which she was associated briefly at Oxford University involving
compilation of 100 million words of British English:  about 10 percent of
that will contain detailed linguistic tagging encoded in SGML; it will
have word class taggings, with words identified as nouns, verbs,
adjectives, or other parts of speech.  This tagging can then be used by
programs which will begin to learn a bit more about the structure of the
language, and then, can go to tag more text.

HOCKEY said that the more that is tagged accurately, the more one can
refine the tagging process and thus the bigger body of text one can build
up with linguistic tagging incorporated into it.  Hence, the more tagging
or annotation there is in the text, the more one may begin to learn about
language and the more it will help accomplish more intelligent OCR.  She
recommended the development of software tools that will help one begin to
understand more about a text, which can then be applied to scanning
images of that text in that format and to using more intelligence to help
one interpret or understand the text.

HOCKEY posited the need to think about common methods of text-encoding
for a long time to come, because building these large bodies of text is
extremely expensive and will only be done once.

In the more general discussion on approaches to encoding that followed,
these points were made:

BESSER identified the underlying problem with standards that all have to
struggle with in adopting a standard, namely, the tension between a very
highly defined standard that is very interchangeable but does not work
for everyone because something is lacking, and a standard that is less
defined, more open, more adaptable, but less interchangeable.  Contending
that the way in which people use SGML is not sufficiently defined, BESSER
wondered 1) if people resist the TEI because they think it is too defined
in certain things they do not fit into, and 2) how progress with
interchangeability can be made without frightening people away.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN replied that the published drafts of the TEI had met
with surprisingly little objection on the grounds that they do not allow
one to handle X or Y or Z.  Particular concerns of the affiliated
projects have led, in practice, to discussions of how extensions are to
be made; the primary concern of any project has to be how it can be
represented locally, thus making interchange secondary.  The TEI has
received much criticism based on the notion that everything in it is
required or even recommended, which, as it happens, is a misconception
from the beginning,   because none of it is required and very little is
actually actively recommended for all cases, except that one document
one's source.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN agreed with BESSER about this trade-off:  all the
projects in a set of twenty TEI-conformant projects will not necessarily
tag the material in the same way.  One result of the TEI will be that the
easiest problems will be solved--those dealing with the external form of
the information; but the problem that is hardest in interchange is that
one is not encoding what another wants, and vice versa.  Thus, after
the adoption of a common notation, the differences in the underlying
conceptions of what is interesting about texts become more visible.
The success of a standard like the TEI will lie in the ability of
the recipient of interchanged texts to use some of what it contains
and to add the information that was not encoded that one wants, in a
layered way, so that texts can be gradually enriched and one does not
have to put in everything all at once.  Hence, having a well-behaved
markup scheme is important.

STEVENS followed up on the paradoxical analogy that BESSER alluded to in
the example of the MARC records, namely, the formats that are the same
except that they are different.  STEVENS drew a parallel between
document-type definitions and MARC records for books and serials and maps,
where one has a tagging structure and there is a text-interchange.
STEVENS opined that the producers of the information will set the terms
for the standard (i.e., develop document-type definitions for the users
of their products), creating a situation that will be problematical for
an institution like the Library of Congress, which will have to deal with
the DTDs in the event that a multiplicity of them develops.  Thus,
numerous people are seeking a standard but cannot find the tag set that
will be acceptable to them and their clients.  SPERBERG-McQUEEN agreed
with this view, and said that the situation was in a way worse:  attempting
to unify arbitrary DTDs resembled attempting to unify a MARC record with a
bibliographic record done according to the Prussian instructions.
According to STEVENS, this situation occurred very early in the process.

WATERS recalled from early discussions on Project Open Book the concern
of many people that merely by producing images, POB was not really
enhancing intellectual access to the material.  Nevertheless, not wishing
to overemphasize the opposition between imaging and full text, WATERS
stated that POB views getting the images as a first step toward possibly
converting to full text through character recognition, if the technology
is appropriate.  WATERS also emphasized that encoding is involved even
with a set of images.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN agreed with WATERS that one can create an SGML document
consisting wholly of images.  At first sight, organizing graphic images
with an SGML document may not seem to offer great advantages, but the
advantages of the scheme WATERS described would be precisely that
ability to move into something that is more of a multimedia document:
a combination of transcribed text and page images.  WEIBEL concurred in
this judgment, offering evidence from Project ADAPT, where a page is
divided into text elements and graphic elements, and in fact the text
elements are organized by columns and lines.  These lines may be used as
the basis for distributing documents in a network environment.  As one
develops software intelligent enough to recognize what those elements
are, it makes sense to apply SGML to an image initially, that may, in
fact, ultimately become more and more text, either thILFTS LXI LI VWRGVW
LXI LI VEVM QFHG GSILFTS PVBRMT.  ULI DZGVIH, GSV OZYLI LU XLNKLHRMT GSV
WLXFNVMG ZMW HZBRMT GSRH HVG LU WLXFNVMGH LI GSRH HVG LU RNZTVH YVOLMTH
GL GSRH WLXFNVMG XLMHGRGFGVH Z HRTMRURXZMG RMEVHGNVMG.

DVRYVO ZOHL NZWV GSV KLRMG GSZG GSV ZZK GZT HVGH, DSROV MLG VCXVHHREVOB
KIVHXIRKGREV, LUUVI Z XLNNLM HGZIGRMT KLRMG; GSVB WL MLG WVURMV GSV
HGIFXGFIV LU GSV WLXFNVMGH, GSLFTS.  GSVB SZEV HLNV IVXLNNVMWZGRLMH ZYLFG
WGWH LMV XLFOW FHV ZH VCZNKOVH, YFG GSVB WL QFHG HFTTVHG GZT HVGH.   ULI
VCZNKOV, GSV XLIV KILQVXG ZGGVNKGH GL FHV GSV ZZK NZIPFK ZH NFXS ZH
KLHHRYOV, YFG GSVIV ZIV XOVZIOB ZIVZH DSVIV HGIFXGFIV NFHG YV ZWWVW.
GSZG RM ML DZB XLMGIZWRXGH GSV FHV LU ZZK GZT HVGH.

HKVIYVIT-NXJFVVM MLGVW GSZG GSV GVR KIVKZIVW Z OLMT DLIPRMT KZKVI VZIOB
LM ZYLFG GSV ZZK GZT HVG ZMW DSZG RG OZXPVW GSZG GSV GVR GSLFTSG RG
MVVWVW, ZMW Z UZRIOB OLMT XIRGRJFV LU GSV MZNRMT XLMEVMGRLMH, DSRXS SZH
OVW GL Z EVIB WRUUVIVMG HGBOV LU MZNRMT RM GSV GVR.  SV HGIVHHVW GSV
RNKLIGZMXV LU GSV LKKLHRGRLM YVGDVVM KIVHXIRKGREV NZIPFK, GSV PRMW GSZG Z
KFYORHSVI LI ZMBYLWB XZM WL DSVM KILWFXRMT WLXFNVMGH WV MLEL, ZMW
WVHXIRKGREV NZIPFK, RM DSRXS LMV SZH GL GZPV DSZG GSV GVCG XZIIRVI
KILERWVH.  RM GSVHV KZIGRXFOZI GZT HVGH RG RH VZHB GL LEVIVNKSZHRAV GSRH
LKKLHRGRLM, YVXZFHV GSV ZZK GZT HVG RH VCGIVNVOB UOVCRYOV.  VEVM RU LMV
QFHG FHVW GSV WGWH, GSVB ZOOLD ZONLHG ZMBGSRMT GL ZKKVZI ZONLHG ZMBDSVIV.

                                 ******

HVHHRLM ER.  XLKBIRTSG RHHFVH

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
KVGVIH * HVEVIZO XZFGRLMH XLMXVIMRMT XLKBIRTSG RM ZM VOVXGILMRX
VMERILMNVMG * IVERVD LU XLKBIRTSG OZD RM GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH * GSV MLGRLM
LU GSV KFYORX TLLW ZMW GSV WVHRIZYRORGB LU RMXVMGREVH GL KILNLGV RG *
DSZG XLKBIRTSG KILGVXGH * DLIPH MLG KILGVXGVW YB XLKBIRTSG * GSV IRTSGH
LU XLKBIRTSG SLOWVIH * KFYORHSVIH' XLMXVIMH RM GLWZB'H VOVXGILMRX
VMERILMNVMG * XLNKFOHLIB ORXVMHVH * GSV KIRXV LU XLKBIRTSG RM Z WRTRGZO
NVWRFN ZMW GSV MVVW ULI XLLKVIZGRLM * ZWWRGRLMZO XOZIRURXZGRLMH *  ILFTS
QFHGRXV LUGVMGRNVH GSV LFGXLNV RM MFNVILFH XLKBIRTSG NZGGVIH * XLKBIRTSG
RM ZM VOVXGILMRX HLXRVGB * XLKBIRTSG OZD ZODZBH LMOB HVGH FK GSV
YLFMWZIRVH; ZMBGSRMT XZM YV XSZMTVW YB XLMGIZXG *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

NZIBYVGS KVGVIH, KLORXB KOZMMRMT ZWERHVI GL GSV IVTRHGVI LU XLKBIRTSGH,
ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH,   NZWV HVEVIZO TVMVIZO XLNNVMGH ZMW GSVM LKVMVW GSV
UOLLI GL WRHXFHHRLM LU HFYQVXGH LU RMGVIVHG GL GSV ZFWRVMXV.

SZERMT ZGGVMWVW HVEVIZO HVHHRLMH RM ZM VUULIG GL TZRM Z HVMHV LU DSZG
KVLKOV WRW ZMW DSVIV XLKBIRTSG DLFOW ZUUVXG GSVRI OREVH, KVGVIH VCKIVHHVW
GSV ULOOLDRMT XZFGRLMH:

     * RU LMV GZPVH ZMW XLMEVIGH NZGVIRZOH ZMW KFGH GSVN RM MVD ULINH,
     GSVM, UILN Z XLKBIRTSG KLRMG LU ERVD, LMV RH XIVZGRMT HLNVGSRMT ZMW
     DROO IVXVREV HLNV IRTSGH.

     * SLDVEVI, RU DSZG LMV RH XLMEVIGRMT ZOIVZWB VCRHGH, Z JFVHGRLM
     RNNVWRZGVOB ZIRHVH ZYLFG GSV HGZGFH LU GSV NZGVIRZOH RM JFVHGRLM.

     * KFGGRMT HLNVGSRMT RM GSV KFYORX WLNZRM RM GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH LUUVIH
     HLNV UIVVWLN UILN ZMCRVGB, YFG WRHGIRYFGRMT RG GSILFTSLFG GSV DLIOW
     LM Z MVGDLIP RH ZMLGSVI NZGGVI, VEVM RU LMV SZH KFG RG RM GSV KFYORX
     WLNZRM RM GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH.  IV ULIVRTM OZDH, EVIB UIVJFVMGOB Z
     DLIP XZM YV RM GSV KFYORX WLNZRM RM GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH YFG KILGVXGVW
     RM LGSVI XLFMGIRVH.  GSFH, LMV NFHG XLMHRWVI ZOO LU GSV KOZXVH Z
     DLIP NZB IVZXS, OVHG LMV FMDRGGRMTOB YVXLNV ORZYOV GL YVRMT UZXVW
     DRGS Z HFRG ULI XLKBIRTSG RMUIRMTVNVMG, LI ZG OVZHG Z OVGGVI
     WVNZMWRMT WRHXFHHRLM LU DSZG LMV RH WLRMT.

KVGVIH IVERVDVW XLKBIRTSG OZD RM GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH.  GSV F.H.
XLMHGRGFGRLM VUUVXGREVOB HGZGVH GSZG XLMTIVHH SZH GSV KLDVI GL VMZXG
XLKBIRTSG OZDH ULI GDL KFIKLHVH:  1) GL VMXLFIZTV GSV XIVZGRLM ZMW
WRHHVNRMZGRLM LU RMGVOOVXGFZO DLIPH ULI GSV TLLW LU HLXRVGB ZH Z DSLOV;
ZMW, HRTMRURXZMGOB, 2) GL TREV XIVZGLIH ZMW GSLHV DSL KZXPZTV ZMW
WRHHVNRMZGV NZGVIRZOH GSV VXLMLNRX IVDZIWH GSZG ZIV WFV GSVN.

XLMTIVHH HGIREVH GL HGIRPV Z YZOZMXV, DSRXS ZG GRNVH XZM YVXLNV ZM
VNLGRLMZO RHHFV.  GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH SZH MVEVI ZXXVKGVW GSV MLGRLM LU GSV
MZGFIZO IRTSG LU ZM ZFGSLI HL NFXS ZH RG SZH ZXXVKGVW GSV MLGRLM LU GSV
KFYORX TLLW ZMW GSV WVHRIZYRORGB LU RMXVMGREVH GL KILNLGV RG.  GSRH HGZGV
LU ZUUZRIH, SLDVEVI, SZH XIVZGVW HGIZRMH LM GSV RMGVIMZGRLMZO OVEVO ZMW
RH GSV IVZHLM ULI HVEVIZO LU GSV WRUUVIVMXVH RM GSV OZDH GSZG DV SZEV.
GLWZB GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH KILGVXGH ZONLHG VEVIB PRMW LU DLIP GSZG XZM YV
XZOOVW ZM VCKIVHHRLM LU ZM ZFGSLI.  GSV HGZMWZIW ULI TZRMRMT XLKBIRTSG
KILGVXGRLM RH HRNKOB LIRTRMZORGB.  GSRH RH Z OLD HGZMWZIW ZMW NVZMH GSZG
Z DLIP RH MLG XLKRVW UILN HLNVGSRMT VOHV, ZH DVOO ZH HSLDH Z XVIGZRM
NRMRNZO ZNLFMG LU ZFGSLIHSRK.  LMV XZM ZOHL ZXJFRIV XLKBIRTSG KILGVXGRLM
ULI NZPRMT Z MVD EVIHRLM LU KIVVCRHGRMT NZGVIRZO, KILERWVW RG NZMRUVHGH
HLNV HKZIP LU XIVZGRERGB.

SLDVEVI, XLKBIRTSG WLVH MLG KILGVXG RWVZH, NVGSLWH, HBHGVNH--LMOB GSV DZB
GSZG LMV VCKIVHHVH GSLHV GSRMTH.  MLI WLVH XLKBIRTSG KILGVXG ZMBGSRMT
GSZG RH NVXSZMRXZO, ZMBGSRMT GSZG WLVH MLG RMELOEV XSLRXV, LI XIRGVIRZ
XLMXVIMRMT DSVGSVI LI MLG LMV HSLFOW WL Z GSRMT.  ULI VCZNKOV, GSV
IVHFOGH LU Z KILXVHH XZOOVW WVXORXPRMT, RM DSRXS LMV NVXSZMRXZOOB IVNLEVH
RNKFIV HLFMWH UILN LOW IVXLIWRMTH, ZIV MLG XLKBIRTSGZYOV.  LM GSV LGSVI
SZMW, GSV XSLRXV GL IVXLIW Z HLMT WRTRGZOOB ZMW GL RMXIVZHV GSV HLFMW LU
ERLORMH LI GL YIRMT FK GSV GBNKZMR XLMHGRGFGVH GSV IVHFOGH LU XLMEVIHRLM
GSZG ZIV XLKBIRTSGZYOV.  NLIVLEVI, RU Z DLIP RH KILGVXGVW YB XLKBIRTSG RM
GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH, LMV TVMVIZOOB MVVWH GSV KVINRHHRLM LU GSV XLKBIRTSG
LDMVI GL XLMEVIG RG.  MLINZOOB, DSL DROO LDM GSV MVD--GSZG RH, XLMEVIGVW-
-NZGVIRZO RH Z NZGGVI LU XLMGIZXG.  RM GSV ZYHVMXV LU Z XLMGIZXG, GSV
KVIHLM DSL XIVZGVH GSV MVD NZGVIRZO RH GSV ZFGSLI ZMW LDMVI.  YFG KVLKOV
WL MLG TVMVIZOOB GSRMP ZYLFG GSV XLKBIRTSG RNKORXZGRLMH FMGRO ZUGVI GSV
UZXG.  KVGVIH HGIVHHVW GSV MVVW DSVM WVZORMT DRGS XLKBIRTSGVW DLIPH GL
GSRMP ZYLFG XLKBIRTSG RM ZWEZMXV.  LMV'H YZITZRMRMT KLDVI RH NFXS TIVZGVI
FK UILMG GSZM RG RH WLDM GSV ILZW.

KVGVIH MVCG WRHXFHHVW DLIPH MLG KILGVXGVW YB XLKBIRTSG, ULI VCZNKOV, ZMB
DLIP WLMV YB Z UVWVIZO VNKOLBVV ZH KZIG LU SRH LI SVI LUURXRZO WFGRVH RH
RM GSV KFYORX WLNZRM RM GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH.  GSV RHHFV RH MLG DSLOOB UIVV
LU WLFYG XLMXVIMRMT DSVGSVI LI MLG GSV DLIP RH RM GSV KFYORX WLNZRM
LFGHRWV GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH.  LGSVI NZGVIRZOH RM GSV KFYORX WLNZRM RMXOFWV:
ZMB DLIPH KFYORHSVW NLIV GSZM HVEVMGB-UREV BVZIH ZTL, ZMW ZMB DLIP
KFYORHSVW RM GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH NLIV GSZM GDVMGB-VRTSG BVZIH ZTL, DSLHV
XLKBIRTSG DZH MLG IVMVDVW.  RM GZOPRMT ZYLFG GSV MVD GVXSMLOLTB ZMW
KFGGRMT NZGVIRZO RM Z WRTRGZO ULIN GL HVMW ZOO LEVI GSV DLIOW, KVGVIH
XZFGRLMVW, LMV NFHG PVVK RM NRMW GSZG DSROV GSV IRTSGH NZB MLG YV ZM
RHHFV RM GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH, GSVB NZB YV RM WRUUVIVMG KZIGH LU GSV DLIOW,
DSVIV NLHG XLFMGIRVH KIVERLFHOB VNKOLBVW Z XLKBIRTSG GVIN LU GSV ORUV LU
GSV ZFGSLI KOFH URUGB BVZIH.

KVGVIH MVCG IVERVDVW GSV VXLMLNRXH LU XLKBIRTSG SLOWRMT.  HRNKOB,
VXLMLNRX IRTSGH ZIV GSV IRTSGH GL XLMGILO GSV IVKILWFXGRLM LU Z DLIP RM
ZMB ULIN.  GSVB YVOLMT GL GSV ZFGSLI, LI RM GSV XZHV LU Z DLIP NZWV ULI
SRIV, GSV VNKOLBVI.  GSV HVXLMW IRTSG, DSRXS RH XIRGRXZO GL XLMEVIHRLM,
RH GSV IRTSG GL XSZMTV Z DLIP.  GSV IRTSG GL NZPV MVD EVIHRLMH RH KVISZKH
LMV LU GSV NLHG HRTMRURXZMG IRTSGH LU ZFGSLIH, KZIGRXFOZIOB RM ZM
VOVXGILMRX DLIOW.  GSV GSRIW IRTSG RH GSV IRTSG GL KFYORHS GSV DLIP ZMW
GSV IRTSG GL WRHHVNRMZGV RG, HLNVGSRMT GSZG VEVIBLMV DSL WVZOH RM ZM
VOVXGILMRX NVWRFN MVVWH GL PMLD.  GSV YZHRX IFOV RH RU Z XLKB RH HLOW,
ZOO IRTSGH LU WRHGIRYFGRLM ZIV VCGRMTFRHSVW DRGS GSV HZOV LU GSZG XLKB.
GSV PVB RH GSZG RG NFHG YV HLOW.  Z MFNYVI LU XLNKZMRVH LEVIXLNV GSRH
LYHGZXOV YB OVZHRMT LI IVMGRMT GSVRI KILWFXG.  GSVHV XLNKZMRVH ZITFV GSZG
RU GSV NZGVIRZO RH IVMGVW LI OVZHVW ZMW MLG HLOW, GSVB XLMGILO GSV FHVH
LU Z DLIP.  GSV ULFIGS IRTSG, ZMW LMV EVIB RNKLIGZMG RM Z WRTRGZO DLIOW,
RH Z IRTSG LU KFYORX KVIULINZMXV, DSRXS NVZMH GSV IRTSG GL HSLD GSV DLIP
HVJFVMGRZOOB.  ULI VCZNKOV, XLKBIRTSG LDMVIH XLMGILO GSV HSLDRMT LU Z
XW-ILN KILWFXG RM Z KFYORX KOZXV HFXS ZH Z KFYORX ORYIZIB.  GSV IVEVIHV
HRWV LU KFYORX KVIULINZMXV RH HLNVGSRMT XZOOVW GSV IRTSG LU KFYORX
WRHKOZB.  NLIZO IRTSGH ZOHL VCRHG, DSRXS ZG GSV UVWVIZO OVEVO ZKKOB LMOB
GL EVIB ORNRGVW ERHFZO DLIPH LU ZIG, YFG RM GSVLIB NZB ZKKOB FMWVI
XLMGIZXG ZMW LGSVI KIRMXRKOVH.  NLIZO IRTSGH NZB RMXOFWV GSV IRTSG LU ZM
ZFGSLI GL SZEV SRH LI SVI MZNV LM Z DLIP, GSV IRTSG LU ZGGIRYFGRLM, ZMW
GSV IRTSG GL LYQVXG GL WRHGLIGRLM LI NFGROZGRLM--GSV IRTSG LU RMGVTIRGB.

GSV DZB XLKBIRTSG OZD RH DLIWVW TREVH NFXS OZGRGFWV GL ZXGRERGRVH HFXS ZH
KIVHVIEZGRLM; GL FHV LU NZGVIRZO ULI HXSLOZIOB ZMW IVHVZIXS KFIKLHVH DSVM
GSV FHVI WLVH MLG NZPV NFOGRKOV XLKRVH; ZMW GL GSV TVMVIZGRLM LU
UZXHRNROV XLKRVH LU FMKFYORHSVW DLIPH YB ORYIZIRVH ULI GSVNHVOEVH ZMW
LGSVI ORYIZIRVH.  YFG GSV OZD WLVH MLG ZOOLD ZMBLMV GL YVXLNV GSV
WRHGIRYFGLI LU GSV KILWFXG ULI GSV VMGRIV DLIOW.  RM GLWZB'H VOVXGILMRX
VMERILMNVMG, KFYORHSVIH ZIV VCGIVNVOB XLMXVIMVW GSZG GSV VMGRIV DLIOW RH
MVGDLIPVW ZMW XZM LYGZRM GSV RMULINZGRLM WVHRIVW UILN Z HRMTOV XLKB RM Z
HRMTOV ORYIZIB.  SVMXV, RU GSVIV RH GL YV LMOB LMV HZOV, DSRXS KFYORHSVIH
NZB XSLLHV GL OREV DRGS, GSVB DROO LYGZRM GSVRI NLMVB RM LGSVI DZBH, ULI
VCZNKOV, UILN ZXXVHH ZMW FHV.  SVMXV, GSV WVEVOLKNVMG LU HRGV ORXVMHVH
ZMW LGSVI PRMWH LU ZTIVVNVMGH GL XLEVI DSZG KFYORHSVIH YVORVEV GSVB
HSLFOW YV XLNKVMHZGVW ULI.  ZMB HLOFGRLM GSZG GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH GZPVH
GLWZB SZH GL XLMHRWVI GSV RMGVIMZGRLMZO ZIVMZ.

MLGRMT GSZG GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH RH Z NVNYVI LU GSV YVIMV XLMEVMGRLM ZMW
HFYHXIRYVH GL RGH KILERHRLMH, KVGVIH WVHXIRYVW GSV KVINRHHRLMH KILXVHH.
HSV ZOHL WVURMVW XLNKFOHLIB ORXVMHVH.  Z XLNKFOHLIB ORXVMHV, LU DSRXS GSV
FMRGVW HGZGVH SZH SZW Z UVD, YFROWH RMGL GSV OZD GSV IRTSG GL FHV Z DLIP
HFYQVXG GL XVIGZRM GVINH ZMW XLMWRGRLMH.  RM GSV RMGVIMZGRLMZO ZIVMZ,
SLDVEVI, GSV ZYRORGB GL FHV XLNKFOHLIB ORXVMHVH RH VCGIVNVOB ORNRGVW.
GSFH, XOVZIRMTSLFHVH ZMW LGSVI XLOOVXGREVH XLNKIRHV LMV LKGRLM GSZG SZH
HFXXVVWVW RM KILERWRMT ULI FHV LU Z DLIP.  LUGVM LEVIOLLPVW DSVM LMV
YVTRMH GL FHV XLKBIRTSGVW NZGVIRZO ZMW KFG KILWFXGH GLTVGSVI RH SLD
VCKVMHREV GSV KVINRHHRLMH KILXVHH ZMW NZMZTRMT RG RH.  ZXXLIWRMT GL
KVGVIH, GSV KIRXV LU XLKBIRTSG RM Z WRTRGZO NVWRFN, DSZGVEVI HLOFGRLM RH
DLIPVW LFG, DROO RMXOFWV NZMZTRMT ZMW ZHHVNYORMT GSV WZGZYZHV.  HSV
HGILMTOB IVXLNNVMWVW GSZG KFYORHSVIH ZMW ORYIZIRZMH LI KVLKOV DRGS
EZIRLFH YZXPTILFMWH XLLKVIZGV GL DLIP LFG ZWNRMRHGIZGREVOB UVZHRYOV
HBHGVNH, RM LIWVI GL KILWFXV YVGGVI IVHFOGH.

RM GSV OVMTGSB JFVHGRLM-ZMW-ZMHDVI KVIRLW GSZG ULOOLDVW KVGVIH'H
KIVHVMGZGRLM, GSV ULOOLDRMT KLRMGH VNVITVW:

     * GSV XLKBIRTSG LUURXV NZRMGZRMH GSZG ZMBGSRMT NVXSZMRXZO ZMW
     GLGZOOB VCSZFHGREV KILYZYOB RH MLG KILGVXGVW.  RM GSV VEVMG GSZG
     DSZG ZM RMWRERWFZO WRW RM WVEVOLKRMT KLGVMGRZOOB XLKBIRTSGZYOV
