did not save it; has LC taken any action to have its copyright deposit
operation start collecting these machine-readable versions?  In the
absence of PETERS, GIFFORD replied that the question was being
actively considered but that that was only one dimension of the problem.
Another dimension is the whole question of the integrity of the original
electronic document.  It becomes highly important in science to prove
authorship.  How will that be done?

ERWAY explained that, under the old policy, to make a claim for a
copyright for works that were published in electronic form, including
software, one had to submit a paper copy of the first and last twenty
pages of code--something that represented the work but did not include
the entire work itself and had little value to anyone.  As a temporary
measure, LC has claimed the right to demand electronic versions of
electronic publications.  This measure entails a proactive role for the
Library to say that it wants a particular electronic version.  Publishers
then have perhaps a year to submit it.  But the real problem for LC is
what to do with all this material in all these different formats.  Will
the Library mount it?  How will it give people access to it?  How does LC
keep track of the appropriate computers, software, and media?  The situation
is so hard to control, ERWAY said, that it makes sense for each publishing
house to maintain its own archive.  But LC cannot enforce that either.

GIFFORD acknowledged LESK's suggestion that establishing a priority
offered the solution, albeit a fairly complicated one.  But who maintains
that register?, he asked.  GRABER noted that LC does attempt to collect a
Macintosh version and the IBM-compatible version of software.  It does
not collect other versions.  But while true for software, BYRUM observed,
this reply does not speak to materials, that is, all the materials that
were published that were on somebody's microcomputer or driver tapes
at a publishing office across the country.  LC does well to acquire
specific machine-readable products selectively that were intended to be
machine-readable.  Materials that were in machine-readable form at one time,
BYRUM said, would be beyond LC's capability at the moment, insofar as
attempting to acquire, organize, and preserve them are concerned--and
preservation would be the most important consideration.  In this
connection, GIFFORD reiterated the need to work out some sense of
distributive responsibility for a number of these issues, which
inevitably will require significant cooperation and discussion.
Nobody can do it all.

LESK suggested that some publishers may look with favor on LC beginning
to serve as a depository of tapes in an electronic manuscript standard.
Publishers may view this as a service that they did not have to perform
and they might send in tapes.  However, SPERBERG-McQUEEN countered,
although publishers have had equivalent services available to them for a
long time, the electronic text archive has never turned away or been
flooded with tapes and is forever sending feedback to the depositor.
Some publishers do send in tapes.

ANDRE viewed this discussion as an allusion to the issue of standards.
She recommended that the AAP standard and the TEI, which has already been
somewhat harmonized internationally and which also shares several
compatibilities with the AAP, be harmonized to ensure sufficient
compatibility in the software.  She drew the line at saying LC ought to
be the locus or forum for such harmonization.

Taking the group in a slightly different direction, but one where at
least in the near term LC might play a helpful role, LYNCH remarked the
plans of a number of projects to carry out preservation by creating
digital images that will end up in on-line or near-line storage at some
institution.   Presumably, LC will link this material somehow to its
on-line catalog in most cases.  Thus, it is in a digital form.  LYNCH had
the impression that many of these institutions would be willing to make
those files accessible to other people outside the institution, provided
that there is no copyright problem.  This desideratum will require
propagating the knowledge that those digitized files exist, so that they
can end up in other on-line catalogs.  Although uncertain about the
mechanism for achieving this result, LYNCH said that it warranted
scrutiny because it seemed to be connected to some of the basic issues of
cataloging and distribution of records.  It would be  foolish, given the
amount of work that all of us have to do and our meager resources, to
discover multiple institutions digitizing the same work.  Re microforms,
LYNCH said, we are in pretty good shape.

BATTIN called this a big problem and noted that the Cornell people (who
had already departed) were working on it.  At issue from the beginning
was to learn how to catalog that information into RLIN and then into
OCLC, so that it would be accessible.  That issue remains to be resolved.
LYNCH rejoined that putting it into OCLC or RLIN was helpful insofar as
somebody who is thinking of performing preservation activity on that work
could learn about it.  It is not necessarily helpful for institutions to
make that available.  BATTIN opined that the idea was that it not only be
for preservation purposes but for the convenience of people looking for
this material.  She endorsed LYNCH's dictum that duplication of this
effort was to be avoided by every means.

HOCKEY informed the Workshop about one major current activity of CETH,
namely a catalogue of machine-readable texts in the humanities.  Held on
RLIN at present, the catalogue has been concentrated on ASCII as opposed
to digitized images of text.  She is exploring ways to improve the
catalogue and make it more widely available, and welcomed suggestions
about these concerns.  CETH owns the records, which are not just
restricted to RLIN, and can distribute them however it wishes.

Taking up LESK's earlier question, BATTIN inquired whether LC, since it
is accepting electronic files and designing a mechanism for dealing with
that rather than putting books on shelves, would become responsible for
the National Copyright Depository of Electronic Materials.  Of course
that could not be accomplished overnight, but it would be something LC
could plan for.  GIFFORD acknowledged that much thought was being devoted
to that set of problems and returned the discussion to the issue raised
by LYNCH--whether or not putting the kind of records that both BATTIN and
HOCKEY have been talking about in RLIN is not a satisfactory solution.
It seemed to him that RLIN answered LYNCH's original point concerning
some kind of directory for these kinds of materials.  In a situation
where somebody is attempting to decide whether or not to scan this or
film that or to learn whether or not someone has already done so, LYNCH
suggested, RLIN is helpful, but it is not helpful in the case of a local,
on-line catalogue.  Further, one would like to have her or his system be
aware that that exists in digital form, so that one can present it to a
patron, even though one did not digitize it, if it is out of copyright.
The only way to make those linkages would be to perform a tremendous
amount of real-time look-up, which would be awkward at best, or
periodically to yank the whole file from RLIN and match it against one's
own stuff, which is a nuisance.

But where, ERWAY inquired, does one stop including things that are
available with Internet, for instance, in one's local catalogue?
It almost seems that that is LC's means to acquire access to them.
That represents LC's new form of library loan.  Perhaps LC's new on-line
catalogue is an amalgamation of all these catalogues on line.  LYNCH
conceded that perhaps that was true in the very long term, but was not
applicable to scanning in the short term.  In his view, the totals cited
by Yale, 10,000 books over perhaps a four-year period, and 1,000-1,500
books from Cornell, were not big numbers, while searching all over
creation for relatively rare occurrences will prove to be less efficient.
As GIFFORD wondered if this would not be a separable file on RLIN and
could be requested from them, BATTIN interjected that it was easily
accessible to an institution.  SEVERTSON pointed out that that file, cum
enhancements, was available with reference information on CD-ROM, which
makes it a little more available.

In HOCKEY's view, the real question facing the Workshop is what to put in
this catalogue, because that raises the question of what constitutes a
publication in the electronic world.  (WEIBEL interjected that Eric Joule
in OCLC's Office of Research is also wrestling with this particular
problem, while GIFFORD thought it sounded fairly generic.)  HOCKEY
contended that a majority of texts in the humanities are in the hands
of either a small number of large research institutions or individuals
and are not generally available for anyone else to access at all.
She wondered if these texts ought to be catalogued.

After argument proceeded back and forth for several minutes over why
cataloguing might be a necessary service, LEBRON suggested that this
issue involved the responsibility of a publisher.  The fact that someone
has created something electronically and keeps it under his or her
control does not constitute publication.  Publication implies
dissemination.  While it would be important for a scholar to let other
people know that this creation exists, in many respects this is no
different from an unpublished manuscript.  That is what is being accessed
in there, except that now one is not looking at it in the hard-copy but
in the electronic environment.

LEBRON expressed puzzlement at the variety of ways electronic publishing
has been viewed.  Much of what has been discussed throughout these two
days has concerned CD-ROM publishing, whereas in the on-line environment
that she confronts, the constraints and challenges are very different.
Sooner or later LC will have to deal with the concept of on-line
publishing.  Taking up the comment ERWAY made earlier about storing
copies, LEBRON gave her own journal as an example.  How would she deposit
OJCCT for copyright?, she asked, because the journal will exist in the
mainframe at OCLC and people will be able to access it.  Here the
situation is different, ownership versus access, and is something that
arises with publication in the on-line environment, faster than is
sometimes realized.  Lacking clear answers to all of these questions
herself, LEBRON did not anticipate that LC would be able to take a role
in helping to define some of them for quite a while.

GREENFIELD observed that LC's Network Development Office is attempting,
among other things, to explore the limits of MARC as a standard in terms
of handling electronic information.  GREENFIELD also noted that Rebecca
GUENTHER from that office gave a paper to the American Society for
Information Science (ASIS) summarizing several of the discussion papers
that were coming out of the Network Development Office.  GREENFIELD said
he understood that that office had a list-server soliciting just the kind
of feedback received today concerning the difficulties of identifying and
cataloguing electronic information.  GREENFIELD hoped that everybody
would be aware of that and somehow contribute to that conversation.

Noting two of LC's roles, first, to act as a repository of record for
material that is copyrighted in this country, and second, to make
materials it holds available in some limited form to a clientele that
goes beyond Congress, BESSER suggested that it was incumbent on LC to
extend those responsibilities to all the things being published in
electronic form.  GSRH DLFOW NVZM VEVMGFZOOB ZXXVKGRMT VOVXGILMRX
ULINZGH.  OX XLFOW IVJFRIV GSZG ZG HLNV KLRMG GSVB YV RM Z XVIGZRM
ORNRGVW HVG LU ULINZGH, ZMW GSVM WVEVOLK NVXSZMRHNH ULI ZOOLDRMT KVLKOV
GL ZXXVHH GSLHV RM GSV HZNV DZB GSZG LGSVI GSRMTH ZIV ZXXVHHVW.  GSRH
WLVH MLG RNKOB GSZG GSVB ZIV LM GSV MVGDLIP ZMW ZEZROZYOV GL VEVIBLMV.
OX WLVH GSZG DRGS NLHG LU RGH YRYORLTIZKSRX IVXLIWH, YVHHVI HZRW, DSRXS
VMW FK NRTIZGRMT GL GSV FGRORGB (V.T., LXOX) LI HLNVDSVIV VOHV.  YFG QFHG
ZH NLHG LU OX'H YLLPH ZIV ZEZROZYOV RM HLNV ULIN GSILFTS RMGVIORYIZIB
OLZM LI HLNV LGSVI NVXSZMRHN, HL RM GSV HZNV DZB VOVXGILMRX ULINZGH LFTSG
GL YV ZEZROZYOV GL LGSVIH RM HLNV ULINZG, GSLFTS DRGS HLNV XLKBIRTSG
XLMHRWVIZGRLMH.  YVHHVI DZH MLG HFTTVHGRMT GSZG GSVHV NVXSZMRHNH YV
VHGZYORHSVW GLNLIILD, LMOB GSZG GSVB HVVNVW GL UZOO DRGSRM OX'H KFIERVD,
ZMW GSZG GSVIV HSLFOW YV OLMT-IZMTV KOZMH GL VHGZYORHS GSVN.

ZXPMLDOVWTRMT GSZG GSLHV UILN OX RM GSV ILLN ZTIVVW DRGS YVHHVI
XLMXVIMRMT GSV MVVW GL XLMUILMG WRUURXFOG JFVHGRLMH, TRUULIW FMWVIHXLIVW
GSV NZTMRGFWV LU GSV KILYOVN LU DSZG GL PVVK ZMW DSZG GL HVOVXG.  TRUULIW
MLGVW GSZG OX XFIIVMGOB IVXVREVH HLNV 31,000 RGVNH KVI WZB, MLG XLFMGRMT
VOVXGILMRX NZGVIRZOH, ZMW ZITFVW ULI NFXS NLIV WRHGIRYFGVW IVHKLMHRYRORGB
RM LIWVI GL NZRMGZRM ZMW HGLIV VOVXGILMRX RMULINZGRLM.

YVHHVI IVHKLMWVW GSZG GSV ZHHVNYOVW TILFK XLFOW YV ERVDVW ZH Z HGZIGRMT
KLRMG, DSLHV RMRGRZO LKVIZGRMT KIVNRHV XLFOW YV SVOKRMT GL NLEV RM GSRH
WRIVXGRLM ZMW WVURMRMT SLD OX XLFOW WL HL, ULI VCZNKOV, RM ZIVZH LU
HGZMWZIWRAZGRLM LI WRHGIRYFGRLM LU IVHKLMHRYRORGB.

UOVRHXSSZFVI ZWWVW GSZG ZN DZH UFOOB VMTZTVW, DIVHGORMT DRGS HLNV LU GSV
JFVHGRLMH GSZG KVIGZRM GL GSV XLMEVIHRLM LU LOWVI SRHGLIRXZO NZGVIRZOH,
DSRXS DLFOW YV LMV GSRMT GSZG GSV ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH NRTSG WL.  HVEVIZO
KLRMGH NVMGRLMVW YB YVHHVI ZMW HVEVIZO LGSVIH LM GSRH JFVHGRLM SZEV Z
NFXS TIVZGVI RNKZXG LM GSLHV DSL ZIV XLMXVIMVW DRGS XZGZOLTFRMT ZMW GSV
MVGDLIPRMT LU YRYORLTIZKSRX RMULINZGRLM, ZH DVOO ZH KIVHVIEZGRLM RGHVOU.

HKVZPRMT WRIVXGOB GL ZN, DSRXS SV XLMHRWVIVW DZH Z OZITVOB FMXLKBIRTSGVW
WZGZYZHV, OBMXS FITVW WVEVOLKNVMG LU Z MVGDLIP EVIHRLM LU ZN, LI
XLMHRWVIZGRLM LU NZPRMT GSV WZGZ RM RG ZEZROZYOV GL KVLKOV RMGVIVHGVW RM
WLRMT MVGDLIP NFOGRNVWRZ.  LM ZXXLFMG LU GSV XFIIVMG TIVZG HSLIGZTV LU
WRTRGZO WZGZ GSZG RH YLGS ZKKVZORMT ZMW FMVMXFNYVIVW YB XLNKOVC IRTSGH
KILYOVNH, GSRH XLFIHV LU ZXGRLM XLFOW SZEV Z HRTMRURXZMG VUUVXG LM NZPRMT
MVGDLIP NFOGRNVWRZ Z IVZORGB.

RM GSRH XLMMVXGRLM, UOVRHXSSZFVI IVKLIGVW LM Z UIZTNVMGZIB KILGLGBKV RM
OX'H LUURXV LU RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTB HVIERXVH GSZG ZGGVNKGH GL ZHHLXRZGV
WRTRGZO RNZTVH LU KSLGLTIZKSH DRGS XZGZOLTFRMT RMULINZGRLM RM DZBH GSZG
DLIP DRGSRM Z OLXZO ZIVZ MVGDLIP--Z HGVK, HL GL HZB, GLDZIW ZN'H
XLMHGIFXGRLM LU HLNV HLIG LU ZKKZIZGFH ULI ZXXVHH.  UFIGSVI, ZN SZH
ZGGVNKGVW GL FHV HGZMWZIW WZGZ ULINH RM LIWVI GL SVOK NZPV GSZG
WRHGRMXGRLM YVGDVVM GSV ZXXVHH GLLOH ZMW GSV FMWVIOBRMT WZGZ, ZMW GSFH
YVORVEVH GSZG GSV WZGZYZHV RH MVGDLIPZYOV.

Z WVORXZGV ZMW ZTLMRARMT KLORXB JFVHGRLM ULI OX, SLDVEVI, DSRXS XLNVH
YZXP GL IVHLFIXVH ZMW FMULIGFMZGVOB SZH ZM RNKZXG LM GSRH, RH GL URMW
HLNV ZKKILKIRZGV, SLMLIZYOV, ZMW OVTZO XLHG-IVXLEVIB KLHHRYRORGRVH.  Z
XVIGZRM HPRGGRHSMVHH XLMXVIMRMT XLHG-IVXLEVIB SZH NZWV KVLKOV FMHFIV
VCZXGOB DSZG GL WL.  ZN DLFOW YV SRTSOB IVXVKGREV GL WRHXFHHRMT UFIGSVI
OBMXS'H LUUVI GL GVHG LI WVNLMHGIZGV RGH WZGZYZHV RM Z MVGDLIP
VMERILMNVMG, UOVRHXSSZFVI HZRW.

IVGFIMRMT GSV WRHXFHHRLM GL DSZG HSV ERVDVW ZH GSV ERGZO RHHFV LU
VOVXGILMRX WVKLHRG, YZGGRM IVXLNNVMWVW GSZG OX RMRGRZGV Z XZGZOBGRX
KILXVHH RM GVINH LU WRHGIRYFGVW IVHKLMHRYRORGB, GSZG RH, YIRMT GLTVGSVI
GSV WRHGIRYFGVW LITZMRAZGRLMH ZMW HVG FK Z HGFWB TILFK GL OLLP ZG ZOO
GSVHV RHHFVH ZMW HVV DSVIV DV ZH Z MZGRLM HSLFOW NLEV.  GSV YILZWVI
RHHFVH LU SLD DV WVZO DRGS GSV NZMZTVNVMG LU VOVXGILMRX RMULINZGRLM DROO
MLG WRHZKKVZI, YFG LMOB TILD DLIHV.

OVHP GLLP FK GSRH GSVNV ZMW HFTTVHGVW GSZG OX ZGGVNKG GL KVIHFZWV LMV
NZQLI ORYIZIB RM VZXS HGZGV GL WVZO DRGS RGH HGZGV VJFREZOVMG KFYORHSVI,
DSRXS NRTSG KILWFXV Z XLLKVIZGREV KILQVXG GSZG DLFOW YV VJFRGZYOB
WRHGIRYFGVW ZILFMW GSV XLFMGIB, ZMW LMV RM DSRXS OX DLFOW YV WVZORMT DRGS
Z NRMRNZO MFNYVI LU KFYORHSVIH ZMW NRMRNZO XLKBIRTSG KILYOVNH.

TIZYVI IVNZIPVW GSV IVXVMG WVEVOLKNVMG RM GSV HXRVMGRURX XLNNFMRGB LU Z
DROORMTMVHH GL FHV HTNO ZMW VRGSVI WVKLHRG LI RMGVIXSZMTV LM Z UZRIOB
HGZMWZIWRAVW ULINZG.  SV DLMWVIVW RU Z HRNROZI NLEVNVMG DZH GZPRMT KOZXV
RM GSV SFNZMRGRVH.  ZOGSLFTS GSV MZGRLMZO ORYIZIB LU NVWRXRMV ULFMW LMOB
Z UVD KFYORHSVIH GL XLLKVIZGV RM Z ORPV EVMGFIV GDL LI GSIVV BVZIH ZTL, Z
MVD VUULIG NRTSG TVMVIZGV Z NFXS OZITVI MFNYVI DROORMT GL XLLKVIZGV.

PRNYZOO IVXLFMGVW SRH FMRG'H (NZXSRMV-IVZWZYOV XLOOVXGRLMH IVZWRMT ILLN)
GILFYOVH DRGS GSV XLNNVIXRZO KFYORHSVIH LU VOVXGILMRX NVWRZ RM ZXJFRIRMT
NZGVIRZOH ULI OX'H XLOOVXGRLMH, RM KZIGRXFOZI GSV KFYORHSVIH' UVZI GSZG
GSVB DLFOW MLG YV ZYOV GL XLEVI GSVRI XLHGH ZMW DLFOW OLHV XLMGILO LU
GSVRI KILWFXGH, GSZG OX DLFOW TREV GSVN ZDZB LI HVOO GSVN ZMW NZPV
KILURGH UILN GSVN.  SV WLFYGVW GSZG GSV KFYORHSRMT RMWFHGIB DZH KIVKZIVW
GL NLEV RMGL GSRH ZIVZ ZG GSV NLNVMG, TREVM RGH IVHRHGZMXV GL ZOOLDRMT OX
GL FHV RGH NZXSRMV-IVZWZYOV NZGVIRZOH ZH GSV ORYIZIB DLFOW ORPV.

GSV XLKBIRTSG OZD MLD ZWWIVHHVH XLNKZXG WRHP ZH Z NVWRFN, ZMW OX XZM
IVJFVHG LMV XLKB LU GSZG, LI GDL XLKRVH RU RG RH GSV LMOB EVIHRLM, ZMW
XZM IVJFVHG XLKRVH LU HLUGDZIV, YFG GSZG UZROH GL ZWWIVHH NZTZARMVH LI
YLLPH LI ZMBGSRMT ORPV GSZG DSRXS RH RM NZXSRMV-IVZWZYOV ULIN.

TRUULIW ZXPMLDOVWTVW GSV GSLIMB MZGFIV LU GSRH RHHFV, DSRXS SV ROOFHGIZGVW
DRGS GSV VCZNKOV LU GSV XFNYVIHLNV KILXVHH RMELOEVW RM KFGGRMT Z XLKB LU Z
HXRVMGRURX WZGZYZHV LM Z OZM RM OX'H HXRVMXV IVZWRMT ILLN.  SV ZOHL
ZXPMLDOVWTVW GSZG OX MVVWH SVOK ZMW XLFOW VMORHG GSV VMVITRVH ZMW GZOVMGH
LU DLIPHSLK KZIGRXRKZMGH RM GSRMPRMT GSILFTS Z MFNYVI LU GSVHV KILYOVNH.

TRUULIW IVGFIMVW GSV WRHXFHHRLM GL TVGGRMT GSV RNZTV ZMW GVCG KVLKOV GL
GSRMP GSILFTS GLTVGSVI DSVIV GSVB DZMG GL TL RM GSV OLMT GVIN.  NBOLMZH
XLMXVWVW GSZG SVI VCKVIRVMXV ZG GSV KRVIXV HBNKLHRFN GSV KIVERLFH DVVP ZG
TVLITVGLDM FMREVIHRGB ZMW GSRH DVVP ZG OX SZW ULIXVW SVI GL IVVEZOFZGV
SVI KVIHKVXGREV LM GSV FHVUFOMVHH LU GVCG ZH RNZTVH.  NBOLMZH UIZNVW GSV
RHHFVH RM Z HVIRVH LU JFVHGRLMH:  SLD WL DV ZXJFRIV NZXSRMV-IVZWZYOV
