
The E-library strategy projected in this plan is a visionary one that can
enable major changes and improvements in academic, public, and special
library service.  This vision is, though, one that can be realized with
today's technology.  At the same time, it will challenge the political
and social structure within which libraries operate:  in academic
libraries, the traditional emphasis on local collections, extending to
accreditation issues; in public libraries, the potential of electronic
branch and central libraries fully available to the public; and for
special libraries, new opportunities for shared collections and networks.

The environment in which this strategic plan has been developed is, at
the moment, dominated by a sense of library limits.  The continued
expansion and rapid growth of local academic library collections is now
clearly at an end.  Corporate libraries, and even law libraries, are
faced with operating within a difficult economic climate, as well as with
very active competition from commercial information sources.  For
example, public libraries may be seen as a desirable but not critical
municipal service in a time when the budgets of safety and health
agencies are being cut back.

Further, libraries in general have a very high labor-to-cost ratio in
their budgets, and labor costs are still increasing, notwithstanding
automation investments.  It is difficult for libraries to obtain capital,
startup, or seed funding for innovative activities, and those
technology-intensive initiatives that offer the potential of decreased
labor costs can provoke the opposition of library staff.

However, libraries have achieved some considerable successes in the past
two decades by improving both their service and their credibility within
their organizations--and these positive changes have been accomplished
mostly with judicious use of information technologies.  The advances in
computing and information technology have been well-chronicled:  the
continuing precipitous drop in computing costs, the growth of the
Internet and private networks, and the explosive increase in publicly
available information databases.

For example, OCLC has become one of the largest computer network
organizations in the world by creating a cooperative cataloging network
of more than 6,000 libraries worldwide.  On-line public access catalogs
now serve millions of users on more than 50,000 dedicated terminals in
the United States alone.  The University of California MELVYL on-line
catalog system has now expanded into an index database reference service
and supports more than six million searches a year.  And, libraries have
become the largest group of customers of CD-ROM publishing technology;
more than 30,000 optical media publications such as those offered by
InfoTrac and Silver Platter are subscribed to by U.S. libraries.

This march of technology continues and in the next decade will result in
further innovations that are extremely difficult to predict.  What is
clear is that libraries can now go beyond automation of their order files
and catalogs to automation of their collections themselves--and it is
possible to circumvent the fiscal limitations that appear to obtain
today.

This Electronic Library Strategic Plan recommends a paradigm shift in
library service, and demonstrates the steps necessary to provide improved
library services with limited capacities and operating investments.

SESSION IV-A

Anne KENNEY

The Cornell/Xerox Joint Study in Digital Preservation resulted in the
recording of 1,000 brittle books as 600-dpi digital images and the
production, on demand, of high-quality and archivally sound paper
replacements.  The project, which was supported by the Commission on
Preservation and Access, also investigated some of the issues surrounding
scanning, storing, retrieving, and providing access to digital images in
a network environment.

Anne Kenney will focus on some of the issues surrounding direct scanning
as identified in the Cornell Xerox Project.  Among those to be discussed
are:  image versus text capture; indexing and access; image-capture
capabilities; a comparison to photocopy and microfilm; production and
cost analysis; storage formats, protocols, and standards; and the use of
this scanning technology for preservation purposes.

The 600-dpi digital images produced in the Cornell Xerox Project proved
highly acceptable for creating paper replacements of deteriorating
originals.  The 1,000 scanned volumes provided an array of image-capture
challenges that are common to nineteenth-century printing techniques and
embrittled material, and that defy the use of text-conversion processes.
These challenges include diminished contrast between text and background,
fragile and deteriorated pages, uneven printing, elaborate type faces,
faint and bold text adjacency, handwritten text and annotations, nonRoman
languages, and a proliferation of illustrated material embedded in text.
The latter category included high-frequency and low-frequency halftones,
continuous tone photographs, intricate mathematical drawings, maps,
etchings, reverse-polarity drawings, and engravings.

The Xerox prototype scanning system provided a number of important
features for capturing this diverse material.  Technicians used multiple
threshold settings, filters, line art and halftone definitions,
autosegmentation, windowing, and software-editing programs to optimize
image capture.  At the same time, this project focused on production.
The goal was to make scanning as affordable and acceptable as
photocopying and microfilming for preservation reformatting.  A
time-and-cost study conducted during the last three months of this
project confirmed the economic viability of digital scanning, and these
findings will be discussed here.

From the outset, the Cornell Xerox Project was predicated on the use of
nonproprietary standards and the use of common protocols when standards
did not exist.  Digital files were created as TIFF images which were
compressed prior to storage using Group 4 CCITT compression.  The Xerox
software is MS DOS based and utilizes off-the shelf programs such as
Microsoft Windows and Wang Image Wizard.  The digital library is designed
to be hardware-independent and to provide interchangeability with other
institutions through network connections.  Access to the digital files
themselves is two-tiered:  Bibliographic records for the computer files
are created in RLIN and Cornell's local system and access into the actual
digital images comprising a book is provided through a document control
structure and a networked image file-server, both of which will be
described.

The presentation will conclude with a discussion of some of the issues
surrounding the use of this technology as a preservation tool (storage,
refreshing, backup).

Pamela ANDRE and Judith ZIDAR

The National Agricultural Library (NAL) has had extensive experience with
raster scanning of printed materials.  Since 1987, the Library has
participated in the National Agricultural Text Digitizing Project (NATDP)
a cooperative effort between NAL and forty-five land grant university
libraries.  An overview of the project will be presented, giving its
history and NAL's strategy for the future.

An in-depth discussion of NATDP will follow, including a description of
the scanning process, from the gathering of the printed materials to the
archiving of the electronic pages.  The type of equipment required for a
stand-alone scanning workstation and the importance of file management
software will be discussed.  Issues concerning the images themHVOEVH DROO
YV ZWWIVHHVW YIRVUOB, HFXS ZH RNZTV ULINZG; YOZXP ZMW DSRGV EVIHFH XLOLI;
TIZB HXZOV EVIHFH WRGSVIRMT; ZMW IVHLOFGRLM.

ZOHL WVHXIRYVW DROO YV Z HGFWB XFIIVMGOB RM KILTIVHH YB MZO GL VEZOFZGV
GSV FHVUFOMVHH LU XLMEVIGRMT NRXILURON GL VOVXGILMRX RNZTVH RM LIWVI GL
RNKILEV ZXXVHH.  DRGS GSV XLLKVIZGRLM LU GFHPVTVV FMREVIHRGB, MZO SZH
HVOVXGVW GSIVV IVVOH LU NRXILURON UILN Z XLOOVXGRLM LU HRCGB-HVEVM IVVOH
XLMGZRMRMT GSV KZKVIH, OVGGVIH, ZMW WIZDRMTH LU TVLITV DZHSRMTGLM XZIEVI.
GSV GSIVV IVVOH DVIV XLMEVIGVW RMGL 3,500 VOVXGILMRX RNZTVH FHRMT Z
HKVXRZORAVW NRXILURON HXZMMVI.  GSV HVOVXGRLM, URONRMT, ZMW RMWVCRMT LU
GSRH NZGVIRZO DROO YV WRHXFHHVW.

WLMZOW DZGVIH

KILQVXG LKVM YLLP, GSV BZOV FMREVIHRGB ORYIZIB'H VUULIG GL XLMEVIG 10,
000 YLLPH UILN NRXILURON GL WRTRGZO RNZTVIB, RH XFIIVMGOB RM ZM ZWEZMXVW
HGZGV LU KOZMMRMT ZMW LITZMRAZGRLM.  GSV BZOV ORYIZIB SZH HVOVXGVW Z
NZQLI EVMWLI GL HVIEV ZH Z KZIGMVI RM GSV KILQVXG ZMW ZH HBHGVNH
RMGVTIZGLI.  RM RGH KILKLHZO, GSV HFXXVHHUFO EVMWLI SVOKVW RHLOZGV ZIVZH
LU IRHP ZMW FMXVIGZRMGB ZH DVOO ZH PVB RHHFVH GL YV ZWWIVHHVW WFIRMT GSV
ORUV LU GSV KILQVXG.  GSV BZOV ORYIZIB RH MLD KLRHVW GL WVXRWV DSZG
NZGVIRZO RG DROO XLMEVIG GL WRTRGZO RNZTV ULIN ZMW GL HVVP UFMWRMT,
RMRGRZOOB ULI GSV URIHG KSZHV ZMW GSVM ULI GSV VMGRIV KILQVXG.

GSV KILKLHZO GSZG BZOV ZXXVKGVW ULI GSV RNKOVNVMGZGRLM LU KILQVXG LKVM
YLLP DROO KILERWV ZG GSV VMW LU GSIVV KSZHVH Z XLMEVIHRLM HFYHBHGVN,
YILDHRMT HGZGRLMH WRHGIRYFGVW LM GSV XZNKFH MVGDLIP DRGSRM GSV BZOV
ORYIZIB, Z HFYHBHGVN ULI HGLIRMT 10,000 YLLPH ZG 200 ZMW 600 WLGH KVI
RMXS, ZMW MVGDLIP ZXXVHH GL GSV RNZTV KIRMGVIH.  KIRXRMT ULI GSV HBHGVN
RNKOVNVMGZGRLM ZHHFNVH GSV VCRHGVMXV LU BZOV'H XZNKFH VGSVIMVG MVGDLIP
ZMW RGH SRTS-HKVVW RNZTV KIRMGVIH, ZMW RMXOFWVH LGSVI IVJFRHRGV SZIWDZIV
ZMW HLUGDZIV, ZH DVOO ZH HBHGVN RMGVTIZGRLM HVIERXVH.  KILKLHVW LKVIZGRMT
XLHGH RMXOFWV SZIWDZIV ZMW HLUGDZIV NZRMGVMZMXV, YFG WL MLG RMXOFWV
VHGRNZGVH ULI GSV UZXRORGRVH NZMZTVNVMG LU GSV HGLIZTV WVERXVH ZMW RNZTV
HVIEVIH.

BZOV HVOVXGVW RGH EVMWLI KZIGMVI RM Z ULINZO KILXVHH, KZIGOB UFMWVW YB
GSV XLNNRHHRLM ULI KIVHVIEZGRLM ZMW ZXXVHH.  ULOOLDRMT Z IVJFVHG ULI
KILKLHZO, GSV BZOV ORYIZIB HVOVXGVW GDL EVMWLIH ZH URMZORHGH GL DLIP DRGS
BZOV HGZUU GL TVMVIZGV Z WVGZROVW ZMZOBHRH LU IVJFRIVNVMGH ULI KILQVXG
LKVM YLLP.  VZXS EVMWLI FHVW GSV IVHFOGH LU GSV IVJFRIVNVMGH ZMZOBHRH GL
TVMVIZGV ZMW HFYNRG Z ULINZO KILKLHZO ULI GSV VMGRIV KILQVXG.  GSRH
XLNKVGRGREV KILXVHH MLG LMOB VMZYOVW GSV BZOV ORYIZIB GL HVOVXG RGH
KIRNZIB EVMWLI KZIGMVI YFG ZOHL IVEVZOVW NFXS ZYLFG GSV HGZGV LU GSV
RNZTRMT RMWFHGIB, ZYLFG GSV EZIBRMT, XLIKLIZGV XLNNRGNVMGH GL GSV NZIPVGH
ULI RNZTRMT GVXSMLOLTB, ZMW ZYLFG GSV EZIBRMT LITZMRAZGRLMZO WBMZNRXH
GSILFTS DSRXS NZQLI XLNKZMRVH ZIV IVHKLMWRMT GL ZMW HVVPRMT GL WVEVOLK
GSVHV NZIPVGH.

KILQVXG LKVM YLLP RH ULXFHVW HKVXRURXZOOB LM GSV XLMEVIHRLM LU RNZTVH
UILN NRXILURON GL WRTRGZO ULIN.  GSV GVXSMLOLTB ULI HXZMMRMT NRXILURON RH
IVZWROB ZEZROZYOV YFG RH XSZMTRMT IZKRWOB.  RM RGH KILQVXG IVJFRIVNVMGH,
GSV BZOV ORYIZIB VNKSZHRAVW UVZGFIVH LU GSV GVXSMLOLTB GSZG ZUUVXG GSV
GVXSMRXZO JFZORGB LU WRTRGZO RNZTV KILWFXGRLM ZMW GSV XLHGH LU XIVZGRMT
ZMW HGLIRMT GSV RNZTV ORYIZIB:  DSZG OVEVOH LU WRTRGZO IVHLOFGRLM XZM YV
ZXSRVEVW YB HXZMMRMT NRXILURON?  SLD WLVH EZIRZGRLM RM GSV JFZORGB LU
NRXILURON, KZIGRXFOZIOB RM URON KILWFXVW GL KIVHVIEZGRLM HGZMWZIWH,
ZUUVXG GSV JFZORGB LU GSV WRTRGZO RNZTVH?  DSZG GVXSMLOLTRVH XZM ZM
LKVIZGLI VUUVXGREVOB ZMW VXLMLNRXZOOB ZKKOB DSVM HXZMMRMT URON GL
HVKZIZGV GDL-FK RNZTVH ZMW GL XLMGILO ULI ZMW XLIIVXG RNZTV
RNKVIUVXGRLMH?  SLD XZM JFZORGB XLMGILO YVHG YV RMGVTIZGVW RMGL
WRTRGRARMT DLIP UOLD GSZG RMXOFWVH WLXFNVMG RMWVCRMT ZMW HGLIZTV?

GSV ZXGFZO ZMW VCKVXGVW FHVH LU WRTRGZO RNZTVH--HGLIZTV, YILDHRMT,
KIRMGRMT, ZMW LXI--SVOK WVGVINRMV GSV HGZMWZIWH ULI NVZHFIRMT GSVRI
JFZORGB.  YILDHRMT RH VHKVXRZOOB RNKLIGZMG, YFG GSV UZXRORGRVH ZEZROZYOV
ULI IVZWVIH GL YILDHV RNZTV WLXFNVMGH RH KVISZKH GSV DVZPVHG ZHKVXG LU
RNZTRMT GVXSMLOLTB ZMW NLHG RM MVVW LU WVEVOLKNVMG.  ZH RG WVURMVW RGH
IVJFRIVNVMGH, GSV BZOV ORYIZIB XLMXVMGIZGVW LM HLNV UFMWZNVMGZO ZHKVXGH
LU FHZYRORGB ULI RNZTV WLXFNVMGH:  WLVH GSV HBHGVN SZEV HFUURXRVMG
UOVCRYRORGB GL SZMWOV GSV UFOO IZMTV LU WLXFNVMG GBKVH, RMXOFWRMT
NLMLTIZKSH, NFOGR-KZIG ZMW NFOGRELOFNV HVGH, ZMW HVIRZOH, ZH DVOO ZH
NZMFHXIRKG XLOOVXGRLMH?  DSZG XLMEVMGRLMH ZIV MVXVHHZIB GL RWVMGRUB Z
WLXFNVMG FMRJFVOB ULI HGLIZTV ZMW IVGIRVEZO?  DSVIV RH GSV WZGZYZHV LU
IVXLIW ULI HGLIRMT YRYORLTIZKSRX RMULINZGRLM ZYLFG GSV RNZTV WLXFNVMG?
SLD ZIV YZHRX RMGVIMZO HGIFXGFIVH LU WLXFNVMGH, HFXS ZH KZTRMZGRLM, NZWV
ZXXVHHRYOV GL GSV IVZWVI?  SLD ZIV GSV RNZTV WLXFNVMGH KSBHRXZOOB
KIVHVMGVW LM GSV HXIVVM GL GSV IVZWVI?

GSV BZOV ORYIZIB WVHRTMVW KILQVXG LKVM YLLP LM GSV ZHHFNKGRLM GSZG
NRXILURON RH NLIV GSZM ZWVJFZGV ZH Z NVWRFN ULI KIVHVIERMT GSV XLMGVMG LU
WVGVIRLIZGVW ORYIZIB NZGVIRZOH.  ZH KOZMMRMT RM GSV KILQVXG SZH ZWEZMXVW,
RG RH RMXIVZHRMTOB XOVZI GSZG GSV XSZOOVMTV LU WRTRGZO RNZTV GVXSMLOLTB
ZMW GSV PVB GL GSV HFXXVHH LU VUULIGH ORPV KILQVXG LKVM YLLP RH GL
KILERWV Z NVZMH LU YLGS KIVHVIERMT ZMW RNKILERMT ZXXVHH GL GSLHV
WVGVIRLIZGVW NZGVIRZOH.

HVHHRLM RE-Y

TVLITV GSLNZ

RM GSV FHV LU VOVXGILMRX RNZTRMT ULI WLXFNVMG KIVHVIEZGRLM, GSVIV ZIV
HVEVIZO RHHFVH GL XLMHRWVI, HFXS ZH:  VMHFIRMT ZWVJFZGV RNZTV JFZORGB,
NZRMGZRMRMT HFYHGZMGRZO XLMEVIHRLM IZGVH (GSILFTS-KFG), KILERWRMT FMRJFV
RWVMGRURXZGRLM ULI ZFGLNZGVW ZXXVHH ZMW IVGIRVEZO, ZMW ZXXLNNLWZGRMT
YLFMW ELOFNVH ZMW UIZTROV NZGVIRZO.

GL NZRMGZRM SRTS RNZTV JFZORGB, RNZTV KILXVHHRMT UFMXGRLMH ZIV IVJFRIVW
GL XLIIVXG GSV WVURXRVMXRVH RM GSV HXZMMVW RNZTV.  HLNV XLNNVIXRZOOB
ZEZROZYOV HBHGVNH RMXOFWV GSVHV UFMXGRLMH, DSROV HLNV WL MLG.  GSV
HXZMMVW IZD RNZTV NFHG YV KILXVHHVW GL XLIIVXG XLMGIZHG WVURXRVMXRVH--
YLGS KLLI LEVIZOO XLMGIZHG IVHFOGRMT UILN ORTSG KIRMG ZMW/LI WZIP
YZXPTILFMW, ZMW EZIRZYOV XLMGIZHG IVHFOGRMT UILN HGZRMH ZMW
YOVVW-GSILFTS.  UFIGSVINLIV, GSV HXZM WVMHRGB NFHG YV ZWVJFZGV GL ZOOLD
OVTRYRORGB LU KIRMG ZMW HFUURXRVMG URWVORGB RM GSV KHVFWL-SZOUGLMVW TIZB
NZGVIRZO.  YLIWVIH LI KZTV-VWTV VUUVXGH NFHG YV IVNLEVW ULI YLGS
XLNKZXGRYRORGB ZMW ZVHGSVGRXH.  KZTV HPVD NFHG YV XLIIVXGVW ULI ZVHGSVGRX
IVZHLMH ZMW GL VMZYOV ZXXFIZGV XSZIZXGVI IVXLTMRGRLM RU WVHRIVW.
XLNKLFMW RNZTVH XLMHRHGRMT LU YLGS GDL-GLMVW GVCG ZMW TIZB-HXZOV
ROOFHGIZGRLMH NFHG YV KILXVHHVW ZKKILKIRZGVOB GL IVGZRM GSV JFZORGB LU
VZXS.

HVHHRLM RE-X

QVZM YZILMZH

HGZMWZIWH KFYORXZGRLMH YVRMT WVEVOLKVW YB HXRVMGRHGH, VMTRMVVIH, ZMW
YFHRMVHH NZMZTVIH RM ZHHLXRZGRLM ULI RMULINZGRLM ZMW RNZTV NZMZTVNVMG
(ZRRN) HGZMWZIWH XLNNRGGVVH XZM YV ZKKORVW GL VOVXGILMRX RNZTV NZMZTVNVMG
(VRN) KILXVHHVH RMXOFWRMT:  WLXFNVMG (RNZTV) GIZMHUVI, IVGIRVEZO ZMW
VEZOFZGRLM; LKGRXZO WRHP ZMW WLXFNVMG HXZMMRMT; ZMW WLXFNVMG WVHRTM ZMW
XLMEVIHRLM.  DSVM XLNYRMVW DRGS VRN HBHGVN KOZMMRMT ZMW LKVIZGRLMH,
HGZMWZIWH XZM ZHHRHG RM TVMVIZGRMT RNZTV WZGZYZHVH GSZG ZIV
RMGVIXSZMTVZYOV ZNLMT Z EZIRVGB LU HBHGVNH.  GSV ZKKORXZGRLMH LU
WRUUVIVMG ZKKILZXSVH ULI RNZTV-GZTTRMT, RMWVCRMT, XLNKIVHHRLM, ZMW
GIZMHUVI LUGVM XZFHV FMXVIGZRMGB XLMXVIMRMT VRN HBHGVN XLNKZGRYRORGB,
XZORYIZGRLM, KVIULINZMXV, ZMW FKDZIW XLNKZGRYRORGB, FMGRO HGZMWZIW
RNKOVNVMGZGRLM KZIZNVGVIH ZIV VHGZYORHSVW.  GSV ZRRN HGZMWZIWH GSZG ZIV
YVRMT WVEVOLKVW ULI GSVHV ZKKORXZGRLMH XZM YV FHVW GL WVXIVZHV GSV
FMXVIGZRMGB, HFXXVHHUFOOB RMGVTIZGV RNZTRMT KILXVHHVH, ZMW KILNLGV "LKVM
HBHGVNH."  ZRRN RH ZM ZXXIVWRGVW ZNVIRXZM MZGRLMZO HGZMWZIWH RMHGRGFGV
(ZMHR) HGZMWZIWH WVEVOLKVI DRGS NLIV GSZM GDVMGB XLNNRGGVVH XLNKIRHVW LU
300 ELOFMGVVIH IVKIVHVMGRMT FHVIH, EVMWLIH, ZMW NZMFUZXGFIVIH.  GSV
HGZMWZIWH KFYORXZGRLMH GSZG ZIV WVEVOLKVW RM GSVHV XLNNRGGVVH SZEV
MZGRLMZO ZXXVKGZMXV ZMW KILERWV GSV YZHRH ULI RMGVIMZGRLMZO SZINLMRAZGRLM
RM GSV WVEVOLKNVMG LU MVD RMGVIMZGRLMZO LITZMRAZGRLM ULI HGZMWZIWRAZGRLM
(RHL) HGZMWZIWH.

GSRH KIVHVMGZGRLM WVHXIRYVH GSV WVEVOLKNVMG LU ZRRN'H VRN HGZMWZIWH ZMW Z
MVD VUULIG ZG ZRRN, Z WZGZYZHV LM HGZMWZIWH KILQVXGH RM Z DRWV UIZNVDLIP
LU RNZTRMT RMWFHGIRVH RMXOFWRMT XZKGFIV, IVXLIWRMT, KILXVHHRMT,
WFKORXZGRLM, WRHGIRYFGRLM, WRHKOZB, VEZOFZGRLM, ZMW KIVHVIEZGRLM.  GSV
ZRRN RNZTVIB WZGZYZHV DROO XLEVI RNZTRMT HGZMWZIWH YVRMT WVEVOLKVW YB
NZMB LITZMRAZGRLMH RM NZMB WRUUVIVMG XLFMGIRVH.  RG DROO XLMGZRM
HGZMWZIWH KFYORXZGRLMH' WZGVH, LIRTRMH, IVOZGVW MZGRLMZO ZMW
RMGVIMZGRLMZO KILQVXGH, HGZGFH, PVB DLIWH, ZMW ZYHGIZXGH.  GSV ZMHR RNZTV
GVXSMLOLTB HGZMWZIWH YLZIW IVJFVHGVW GSZG HFXS Z WZGZYZHV YV VHGZYORHSVW,
ZH WRW GSV RHL/RMGVIMZGRLMZO VOVXGILGVXSMRXZO XLNNRHHRLM QLRMG GZHP ULIXV
LM RNZTVIB.  ZRRN DROO GZPV LM GSV OVZWVIHSRK ILOV ULI GSV WZGZYZHV ZMW
XLLIWRMZGV RGH WVEVOLKNVMG DRGS HVEVIZO HGZMWZIWH WVEVOLKVIH.

KZGIRXRZ YZGGRM

     XSZIZXGVIRHGRXH LU HGZMWZIWH ULI WRTRGZO RNZTVIB:

          * MZGFIV LU WRTRGZO GVXSMLOLTB RNKORVH XLMGRMFRMT ELOZGRORGB.

          * KIVXRKRGLFH HGZMWZIW-HVGGRMT MLG KLHHRYOV ZMW KILYZYOB MLG
          WVHRIZYOV.

          * HGZMWZIWH ZIV Z XLNKOVC RHHFV RMELOERMT GSV NVWRFN, GSV
          SZIWDZIV, GSV HLUGDZIV, ZMW GSV GVXSMRXZO XZKZXRGB ULI
          IVKILWFXGREV URWVORGB ZMW XOZIRGB.

          * GSV KILTMLHRH ULI IVORZYOV ZIXSREZO HGZMWZIWH (ZH WVURMVW YB
          ORYIZIRZMH) RM GSV ULIVHVVZYOV UFGFIV RH KLLI.

     HRTMRURXZMG KLGVMGRZO ZMW ZGGIZXGREVMVHH LU WRTRGZO GVXSMLOLTB ZH Z
