what is called network-mediated scholarship.

MICHELSON next turned to the second element of the framework she proposed
at the outset of her talk for evaluating the prospects for electronic
text, namely the key information technology trends affecting the conduct
of scholarly communication over the next decade:  1) end-user computing
and 2) connectivity.

End-user computing means that the person touching the keyboard, or
performing computations, is the same as the person who initiates or
consumes the computation.  The emergence of personal computers, along
with a host of other forces, such as ubiquitous computing, advances in
interface design, and the on-line transition, is prompting the consumers
of computation to do their own computing, and is thus rendering obsolete
the traditional distinction between end users and ultimate users.

The trend toward end-user computing is significant to consideration of
GSV KILHKVXGH ULI VOVXGILMRX GVCGH YVXZFHV RG NVZMH GSZG IVHVZIXSVIH ZIV
YVXLNRMT NLIV ZWVKG ZG WLRMT GSVRI LDM XLNKFGZGRLMH ZMW, GSFH, NLIV
XLNKVGVMG RM GSV FHV LU VOVXGILMRX NVWRZ.  YB ZELRWRMT KILTIZNNVI
RMGVINVWRZIRVH, XLNKFGZGRLM RH YVXLNRMT XVMGIZO GL GSV IVHVZIXSVI'H
GSLFTSG KILXVHH.  GSRH WRIVXG RMELOEVNVMG RM XLNKFGRMT RH XSZMTRMT GSV
IVHVZIXSVI'H KVIHKVXGREV LM GSV MZGFIV LU IVHVZIXS RGHVOU, GSZG RH, GSV
PRMWH LU JFVHGRLMH GSZG XZM YV KLHVW, GSV ZMZOBGRXZO NVGSLWLOLTRVH GSZG
XZM YV FHVW, GSV GBKVH ZMW ZNLFMG LU HLFIXVH GSZG ZIV ZKKILKIRZGV ULI
ZMZOBHVH, ZMW GSV ULIN RM DSRXS URMWRMTH ZIV KIVHVMGVW.  GSV GIVMW GLDZIW
VMW-FHVI XLNKFGRMT NVZMH GSZG, RMXIVZHRMTOB, VOVXGILMRX NVWRZ ZMW
XLNKFGZGRLM ZIV YVRMT RMUFHVW RMGL ZOO KILXVHHVH LU SFNZMRGRVH
HXSLOZIHSRK, RMHKRIRMT IVNZIPZYOV GIZMHULINZGRLMH RM HXSLOZIOB
XLNNFMRXZGRLM.

GSV GIVMW GLDZIW TIVZGVI XLMMVXGRERGB HFTTVHGH GSZG IVHVZIXSVIH ZIV FHRMT
