important to scholarship because it erases the distance that separates
students from teachers and scholars from their colleagues, while allowing
users to access remote databases, share information in many different
media, connect to their working context wherever they are, and
collaborate in all phases of research.

The combination of the trend toward end-user computing and the trend
toward connectivity suggests that the scholarly use of electronic
resources, already evident among some researchers, will soon become an
established feature of scholarship.  The effects of these trends, along
with ongoing changes in scholarly practices, point to a future in which
humanities researchers will use computation and electronic communication
to help them formulate ideas, access sources, perform research,
collaborate with colleagues, seek peer review, publish and disseminate
results, and engage in many other professional and educational activities.

In summary, MICHELSON emphasizVW ULFI KLRMGH:  1) Z KLIGRLM LU SFNZMRGRVH
HXSLOZIH ZOIVZWB XLMHRWVI VOVXGILMRX GVCGH GSV KIVUVIIVW ULINZG ULI
ZMZOBHRH ZMW WRHHVNRMZGRLM.  2) HXSLOZIH ZIV FHRMT GSVHV VOVXGILMRX
GVCGH, RM XLMQFMXGRLM DRGS LGSVI VOVXGILMRX IVHLFIXVH, RM ZOO GSV
KILXVHHVH LU HXSLOZIOB XLNNFMRXZGRLM.  3) GSV SFNZMRGRVH HXSLOZIH'
DLIPRMT XLMGVCG RH RM GSV KILXVHH LU XSZMTRMT UILN KIRMG GVXSMLOLTB GL
VOVXGILMRX GVXSMLOLTB, RM NZMB DZBH NRIILIRMT GIZMHULINZGRLMH GSZG SZEV
LXXFIIVW LI ZIV LXXFIIRMT DRGSRM GSV HXRVMGRURX XLNNFMRGB.  4) GSVHV
XSZMTVH ZIV LXXFIIRMT RM XLMQFMXGRLM DRGS GSV WVEVOLKNVMG LU Z MVD
XLNNFMRXZGRLM NVWRFN:  IVHVZIXS ZMW VWFXZGRLM MVGDLIPH GSZG ZIV
