



                ALICE'S ADVENTURES IN WONDERLAND

                          Lewis Carroll

               THE MILLENNIUM FULCRUM EDITION 2.9




                            CHAPTER I

                      Down the Rabbit-Hole


  Alice was beginning to get very tired of sitting by her sister
on the bank, and of having nothing to do:  once or twice she had
peeped into the book her sister was reading, but it had no
pictures or conversations in it, `and what is the use of a book,'
thought Alice `without pictures or conversation?'

  So she was considering in her own mind (as well as she could,
for the hot day made her feel very sleepy and stupid), whether
the pleasure of making a daisy-chain would be worth the trouble
of getting up and picking the daisies, when suddenly a White
Rabbit with pink eyes ran close by her.

  There was nothing so VERY remarkable in that; nor did Alice
think it so VERY much out of the way to hear the Rabbit say to
itself, `Oh dear!  Oh dear!  I shall be late!'  (when she thought
it over afterwards, it occurred to her that she ought to have
wondered at this, but at the time it all seemed quite natural);
but when the Rabbit actually TOOK A WATCH OUT OF ITS WAISTCOAT-
POCKET, and looked at it, and then hurried on, Alice started to
her feet, for it flashed across her mind that she had never
before seen a rabbit with either a waistcoat-pocket, or a watch to
take out of it, and burning with curiosity, she ran across the
field after it, and fortunately was just in time to see it pop
down a large rabbit-hole under the hedge.

  In another moment down went Alice after it, never once
considering how in the world she was to get out again.

  The rabbit-hole went straight on like a tunnel for some way,
and then dipped suddenly down, so suddenly that Alice had not a
moment to think about stopping herself before she found herself
falling down a very deep well.

  Either the well was very deep, or she fell very slowly, for she
had plenty of time as she went down to look about her and to
wonder what was going to happen next.  First, she tried to look
down and make out what she was coming to, but it was too dark to
see anything; then she looked at the sides of the well, and
noticed that they were filled with cupboards and book-shelves;
here and there she saw maps and pictures hung upon pegs.  She
took down a jar from one of the shelves as she passed; it was
labelled `ORANGE MARMALADE', but to her great disappointment it
was empty:  she did not like to drop the jar for fear of killing
somebody, so managed to put it into one of the cupboards as she
fell past it.

  `Well!' thought Alice to herself, `after such a fall as this, I
shall think nothing of tumbling down stairs!  How brave they'll
all think me at home!  Why, I wouldn't say anything about it,
even if I fell off the top of the house!' (Which was very likely
true.)

  Down, down, down.  Would the fall NEVER come to an end!  `I
wonder how many miles I've fallen by this time?' she said aloud.
`I must be getting somewhere near the centre of the earth.  Let
me see:  that would be four thousand miles down, I think--' (for,
you see, Alice had learnt several things of this sort in her
lessons in the schoolroom, and though this was not a VERY good
opportunity for showing off her knowledge, as there was no one to
listen to her, still it was good practice to say it over) `--yes,
that's about the right distance--but then I wonder what Latitude
or Longitude I've got to?'  (Alice had no idea what Latitude was,
or Longitude either, but thought they were nice grand words to
say.)

  Presently she began again.  `I wonder if I shall fall right
THROUGH the earth!  How funny it'll seem to come out among the
people that walk with their heads downward!  The Antipathies, I
think--' (she was rather glad there WAS no one listening, this
time, as it didn't sound at all the right word) `--but I shall
have to ask them what the name of the country is, you know.
Please, Ma'am, is this New Zealand or Australia?' (and she tried
to curtsey as she spoke--fancy CURTSEYING as you're falling
through the air!  Do you think you could manage it?)  `And what
an ignorant little girl she'll think me for asking!  No, it'll
never do to ask:  perhaps I shall see it written up somewhere.'

  Down, down, down.  There was nothing else to do, so Alice soon
began talking again.  `Dinah'll miss me very much to-night, I
should think!'  (Dinah was the cat.)  `I hope they'll remember
her saucer of milk at tea-time.  Dinah my dear!  I wish you were
down here with me!  There are no mice in the air, I'm afraid, but
you might catch a bat, and that's very like a mouse, you know.
But do cats eat bats, I wonder?'  And here Alice began to get
rather sleepy, and went on saying to herself, in a dreamy sort of
way, `Do cats eat bats?  Do cats eat bats?' and sometimes, `Do
bats eat cats?' for, you see, as she couldn't answer either
question, it didn't much matter which way she put it.  She felt
that she was dozing off, and had just begun to dream that she
was walking hand in hand with Dinah, and saying to her very
earnestly, `Now, Dinah, tell me the truth:  did you ever eat a
bat?' when suddenly, thump! thump! down she came upon a heap of
sticks and dry leaves, and the fall was over.

  Alice was not a bit hurt, and she jumped up on to her feet in a
moment:  she looked up, but it was all dark overhead; before her
was another long passage, and the White Rabbit was still in
sight, hurrying down it.  There was not a moment to be lost:
away went Alice like the wind, and was just in time to hear it
say, as it turned a corner, `Oh my ears and whiskers, how late
it's getting!'  She was close behind it when she turned the
corner, but the Rabbit was no longer to be seen:  she found
herself in a long, low hall, which was lit up by a row of lamps
hanging from the roof.

  There were doors all round the hall, but they were all locked;
and when Alice had been all the way down one side and up the
other, trying every door, she walked sadly down the middle,
wondering how she was ever to get out again.

  Suddenly she came upon a little three-legged table, all made of
solid glass; there was nothing on it except a tiny golden key,
and Alice's first thought was that it might belong to one of the
doors of the hall; but, alas! either the locks were too large, or
the key was too small, but at any rate it would not open any of
them.  However, on the second time round, she came upon a low
curtain she had not noticed before, and behind it was a little
door about fifteen inches high:  she tried the little golden key
in the lock, and to her great delight it fitted!

  Alice opened the door and found that it led into a small
passage, not much larger than a rat-hole:  she knelt down and
looked along the passage into the loveliest garden you ever saw.
How she longed to get out of that dark hall, and wander about
among those beds of bright flowers and those cool fountains, but
she could not even get her head though the doorway; `and even if
my head would go through,' thought poor Alice, `it would be of
very little use without my shoulders.  Oh, how I wish
I could shut up like a telescope!  I think I could, if I only
know how to begin.'  For, you see, so many out-of-the-way things
had happened lately, that Alice had begun to think that very few
things indeed were really impossible.

  There seemed to be no use in waiting by the little door, so she
went back to the table, half hoping she might find another key on
it, or at any rate a book of rules for shutting people up like
telescopes:  this time she found a little bottle on it, (`which
certainly was not here before,' said Alice,) and round the neck
of the bottle was a paper label, with the words `DRINK ME'
beautifully printed on it in large letters.

  It was all very well to say `Drink me,' but the wise little
Alice was not going to do THAT in a hurry.  `No, I'll look
first,' she said, `and see whether it's marked "poison" or not';
for she had read several nice little histories about children who
had got burnt, and eaten up by wild beasts and other unpleasant
things, all because they WOULD not remember the simple rules
their friends had taught them:  such as, that a red-hot poker
will burn you if you hold it too long; and that if you cut your
finger VERY deeply with a knife, it usually bleeds; and she had
never forgotten that, if you drink much from a bottle marked
`poison,' it is almost certain to disagree with you, sooner or
later.

  However, this bottle was NOT marked `poison,' so Alice ventured
to taste it, and finding it very nice, (it had, in fact, a sort
of mixed flavour of cherry-tart, custard, pine-apple, roast
turkey, toffee, and hot buttered toast,) she very soon finished
it off.

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

         *       *       *       *       *       *

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

  `What a curious feeling!' said Alice; `I must be shutting up
like a telescope.'

  And so it was indeed:  she was now only ten inches high, and
her face brightened up at the thought that she was now the right
size for going though the little door into that lovely garden.
First, however, she waited for a few minutes to see if she was
going to shrink any further:  she felt a little nervous about
this; `for it might end, you know,' said Alice to herself, `in my
going out altogether, like a candle.  I wonder what I should be
like then?'  And she tried to fancy what the flame of a candle is
like after the candle is blown out, for she could not remember
ever having seen such a thing.

  After a while, finding that nothing more happened, she decided
on going into the garden at once; but, alas for poor Alice! when
she got to the door, she found he had forgotten the little golden
key, and when she went back to the table for it, she found she
could not possibly reach it:  she could see it quite plainly
through the glass, and she tried her best to climb up one of the
legs of the table, but it was too slippery; and when she had
tired herself out with trying, the poor little thing sat down and
cried.

  `Come, there's no use in crying like that!' said Alice to
herself, rather sharply; `I advise you to leave off this minute!'
She generally gave herself very good advice, (though she very
seldom followed it), and sometimes she scolded herself so
severely as to bring tears into her eyes; and once she remembered
trying to box her own ears for having cheated herself in a game
of croquet she was playing against herself, for this curious
child was very fond of pretending to be two people.  `But it's no
use now,' thought poor Alice, `to pretend to be two people!  Why,
there's hardly enough of me left to make ONE respectable
person!'

  Soon her eye fell on a little glass box that was lying under
the table:  she opened it, and found in it a very small cake, on
which the words `EAT ME' were beautifully marked in currants.
`Well, I'll eat it,' said Alice, `and if it makes me grow larger,
I can reach the key; and if it makes me grow smaller, I can creep
under the door; so either way I'll get into the garden, and I
don't care which happens!'

  She ate a little bit, and said anxiously to herself, `Which
way?  Which way?', holding her hand on the top of her head to
feel which way it was growing, and she was quite surprised to
find that she remained the same size:  to be sure, this generally
happens when one eats cake, but Alice had got so much into the
way of expecting nothing but out-of-the-way things to happen,
that it seemed quite dull and stupid for life to go on in the
common way.

  So she set to work, and very soon finished off the cake.

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

         *       *       *       *       *       *

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *




                           CHAPTER II

                        The Pool of Tears


  `Curiouser and curiouser!' cried Alice (she was so much
surprised, that for the moment she quite forgot how to speak good
English); `now I'm opening out like the largest telescope that
ever was!  Good-bye, feet!' (for when she looked down at her
feet, they seemed to be almost out of sight, they were getting so
far off).  `Oh, my poor little feet, I wonder who will put on
your shoes and stockings for you now, dears?  I'm sure _I_ shan't
be able!  I shall be a great deal too far off to trouble myself
about you:  you must manage the best way you can; --but I must be
kind to them,' thought Alice, `or perhaps they won't walk the
way I want to go!  Let me see:  I'll give them a new pair of
boots every Christmas.'

  And she went on planning to herself how she would manage it.
`They must go by the carrier,' she thought; `and how funny it'll
seem, sending presents to one's own feet!  And how odd the
directions will look!

            ALICE'S RIGHT FOOT, ESQ.
                HEARTHRUG,
                    NEAR THE FENDER,
                        (WITH ALICE'S LOVE).

Oh dear, what nonsense I'm talking!'

  Just then her head struck against the roof of the hall:  in
fact she was now more than nine feet high, and she at once took
up the little golden key and hurried off to the garden door.

  Poor Alice!  It was as much as she could do, lying down on one
side, to look through into the garden with one eye; but to get
through was more hopeless than ever:  she sat down and began to
cry again.

  `You ought to be ashamed of yourself,' said Alice, `a great
girl like you,' (she might well say this), `to go on crying in
this way!  Stop this moment, I tell you!'  But she went on all
the same, shedding gallons of tears, until there was a large pool
all round her, about four inches deep and reaching half down the
hall.

  After a time she heard a little pattering of feet in the
distance, and she hastily dried her eyes to see what was coming.
It was the White Rabbit returning, splendidly dressed, with a
pair of white kid gloves in one hand and a large fan in the
other:  he came trotting along in a great hurry, muttering to
himself as he came, `Oh! the Duchess, the Duchess! Oh! won't she
be savage if I've kept her waiting!'  Alice felt so desperate
that she was ready to ask help of any one; so, when the Rabbit
came near her, she began, in a low, timid voice, `If you please,
sir--'  The Rabbit started violently, dropped the white kid
gloves and the fan, and skurried away into the darkness as hard
as he could go.

  Alice took up the fan and gloves, and, as the hall was very
hot, she kept fanning herself all the time she went on talking:
`Dear, dear!  How queer everything is to-day!  And yesterday
things went on just as usual.  I wonder if I've been changed in
the night?  Let me think:  was I the same when I got up this
morning?  I almost think I can remember feeling a little
different.  But if I'm not the same, the next question is, Who in
the world am I?  Ah, THAT'S the great puzzle!'  And she began
thinking over all the children she knew that were of the same age
as herself, to see if she could have been changed for any of
them.

  `I'm sure I'm not Ada,' she said, `for her hair goes in such
long ringlets, and mine doesn't go in ringlets at all; and I'm
sure I can't be Mabel, for I know all sorts of things, and she,
oh! she knows such a very little!  Besides, SHE'S she, and I'm I,
and--oh dear, how puzzling it all is!  I'll try if I know all the
things I used to know.  Let me see:  four times five is twelve,
and four times six is thirteen, and four times seven is--oh dear!
I shall never get to twenty at that rate!  However, the
Multiplication Table doesn't signify:  let's try Geography.
London is the capital of Paris, and Paris is the capital of Rome,
and Rome--no, THAT'S all wrong, I'm certain!  I must have been
changed for Mabel!  I'll try and say "How doth the little--"'
and she crossed her hands on her lap as if she were saying lessons,
and began to repeat it, but her voice sounded hoarse and
strange, and the words did not come the same as they used to do:--

            `How doth the little crocodile
              Improve his shining tail,
            And pour the waters of the Nile
              On every golden scale!

            `How cheerfully he seems to grin,
              How neatly spread his claws,
            And welcome little fishes in
              With gently smiling jaws!'

  `I'm sure those are not the right words,' said poor Alice, and
her eyes filled with tears again as she went on, `I must be Mabel
after all, and I shall have to go and live in that poky little
house, and have next to no toys to play with, and oh! ever so
many lessons to learn!  No, I've made up my mind about it; if I'm
Mabel, I'll stay down here!  It'll be no use their putting their
heads down and saying "Come up again, dear!"  I shall only look
up and say "Who am I then?  Tell me that first, and then, if I
like being that person, I'll come up:  if not, I'll stay down
here till I'm somebody else"--but, oh dear!' cried Alice, with a
sudden burst of tears, `I do wish they WOULD put their heads
down!  I am so VERY tired of being all alone here!'

  As she said this she looked down at her hands, and was
surprised to see that she had put on one of the Rabbit's little
white kid gloves while she was talking.  `How CAN I have done
that?' she thought.  `I must be growing small again.'  She got up
and went to the table to measure herself by it, and found that,
as nearly as she could guess, she was now about two feet high,
and was going on shrinking rapidly:  she soon found out that the
cause of this was the fan she was holding, and she dropped it
hastily, just in time to avoid shrinking away altogether.

`That WAS a narrow escape!' said Alice, a good deal frightened at
the sudden change, but very glad to find herself still in
existence; `and now for the garden!' and she ran with all speed
back to the little door:  but, alas! the little door was shut
again, and the little golden key was lying on the glass table as
before, `and things are worse than ever,' thought the poor child,
`for I never was so small as this before, never!  And I declare
it's too bad, that it is!'

  As she said these words her foot slipped, and in another
moment, splash! she was up to her chin in salt water.  He first
idea was that she had somehow fallen into the sea, `and in that
case I can go back by railway,' she said to herself.  (Alice had
been to the seaside once in her life, and had come to the general
conclusion, that wherever you go to on the English coast you find
a number of bathing machines in the sea, some children digging in
the sand with wooden spades, then a row of lodging houses, and
behind them a railway station.)  However, she soon made out that
she was in the pool of tears which she had wept when she was nine
feet high.

  `I wish I hadn't cried so much!' said Alice, as she swam about,
trying to find her way out.  `I shall be punished for it now, I
suKKLHV, YB YVRMT WILDMVW RM NB LDM GVZIH!  GSZG DROO YV Z JFVVI
GSRMT, GL YV HFIV!  SLDVEVI, VEVIBGSRMT RH JFVVI GL-WZB.'

  QFHG GSVM HSV SVZIW HLNVGSRMT HKOZHSRMT ZYLFG RM GSV KLLO Z
ORGGOV DZB LUU, ZMW HSV HDZN MVZIVI GL NZPV LFG DSZG RG DZH:  ZG
URIHG HSV GSLFTSG RG NFHG YV Z DZOIFH LI SRKKLKLGZNFH, YFG GSVM
HSV IVNVNYVIVW SLD HNZOO HSV DZH MLD, ZMW HSV HLLM NZWV LFG GSZG
RG DZH LMOB Z NLFHV GSZG SZW HORKKVW RM ORPV SVIHVOU.

  `DLFOW RG YV LU ZMB FHV, MLD,' GSLFTSG ZORXV, `GL HKVZP GL GSRH
NLFHV?  VEVIBGSRMT RH HL LFG-LU-GSV-DZB WLDM SVIV, GSZG R HSLFOW
GSRMP EVIB ORPVOB RG XZM GZOP:  ZG ZMB IZGV, GSVIV'H ML SZIN RM
GIBRMT.'  HL HSV YVTZM:  `L NLFHV, WL BLF PMLD GSV DZB LFG LU
GSRH KLLO?  R ZN EVIB GRIVW LU HDRNNRMT ZYLFG SVIV, L NLFHV!'
(ZORXV GSLFTSG GSRH NFHG YV GSV IRTSG DZB LU HKVZPRMT GL Z NLFHV:
HSV SZW MVEVI WLMV HFXS Z GSRMT YVULIV, YFG HSV IVNVNYVIVW SZERMT
HVVM RM SVI YILGSVI'H OZGRM TIZNNZI, `Z NLFHV--LU Z NLFHV--GL Z
NLFHV--Z NLFHV--L NLFHV!'  GSV NLFHV OLLPVW ZG SVI IZGSVI
RMJFRHRGREVOB, ZMW HVVNVW GL SVI GL DRMP DRGS LMV LU RGH ORGGOV
VBVH, YFG RG HZRW MLGSRMT.

  `KVISZKH RG WLVHM'G FMWVIHGZMW VMTORHS,' GSLFTSG ZORXV; `R
WZIVHZB RG'H Z UIVMXS NLFHV, XLNV LEVI DRGS DROORZN GSV
XLMJFVILI.'  (ULI, DRGS ZOO SVI PMLDOVWTV LU SRHGLIB, ZORXV SZW
ML EVIB XOVZI MLGRLM SLD OLMT ZTL ZMBGSRMT SZW SZKKVMVW.)  HL HSV
YVTZM ZTZRM:  `LF VHG NZ XSZGGV?' DSRXS DZH GSV URIHG HVMGVMXV RM
SVI UIVMXS OVHHLM-YLLP.  GSV NLFHV TZEV Z HFWWVM OVZK LFG LU GSV
DZGVI, ZMW HVVNVW GL JFREVI ZOO LEVI DRGS UIRTSG.  `LS, R YVT
BLFI KZIWLM!' XIRVW ZORXV SZHGROB, ZUIZRW GSZG HSV SZW SFIG GSV
KLLI ZMRNZO'H UVVORMTH.  `R JFRGV ULITLG BLF WRWM'G ORPV XZGH.'

  `MLG ORPV XZGH!' XIRVW GSV NLFHV, RM Z HSIROO, KZHHRLMZGV
ELRXV.  `DLFOW BLF ORPV XZGH RU BLF DVIV NV?'

  `DVOO, KVISZKH MLG,' HZRW ZORXV RM Z HLLGSRMT GLMV:  `WLM'G YV
ZMTIB ZYLFG RG.  ZMW BVG R DRHS R XLFOW HSLD BLF LFI XZG WRMZS:
R GSRMP BLF'W GZPV Z UZMXB GL XZGH RU BLF XLFOW LMOB HVV SVI.
HSV RH HFXS Z WVZI JFRVG GSRMT,' ZORXV DVMG LM, SZOU GL SVIHVOU,
ZH HSV HDZN OZAROB ZYLFG RM GSV KLLO, `ZMW HSV HRGH KFIIRMT HL
MRXVOB YB GSV URIV, ORXPRMT SVI KZDH ZMW DZHSRMT SVI UZXV--ZMW
HSV RH HFXS Z MRXV HLUG GSRMT GL MFIHV--ZMW HSV'H HFXS Z XZKRGZO
LMV ULI XZGXSRMT NRXV--LS, R YVT BLFI KZIWLM!' XIRVW ZORXV ZTZRM,
ULI GSRH GRNV GSV NLFHV DZH YIRHGORMT ZOO LEVI, ZMW HSV UVOG
XVIGZRM RG NFHG YV IVZOOB LUUVMWVW.  `DV DLM'G GZOP ZYLFG SVI ZMB
NLIV RU BLF'W IZGSVI MLG.'

  `DV RMWVVW!' XIRVW GSV NLFHV, DSL DZH GIVNYORMT WLDM GL GSV VMW
LU SRH GZRO.  `ZH RU R DLFOW GZOP LM HFXS Z HFYQVXG!  LFI UZNROB
ZODZBH SZGVW XZGH:  MZHGB, OLD, EFOTZI GSRMTH!  WLM'G OVG NV SVZI
GSV MZNV ZTZRM!'

  `R DLM'G RMWVVW!' HZRW ZORXV, RM Z TIVZG SFIIB GL XSZMTV GSV
HFYQVXG LU XLMEVIHZGRLM.  `ZIV BLF--ZIV BLF ULMW--LU--LU WLTH?'
GSV NLFHV WRW MLG ZMHDVI, HL ZORXV DVMG LM VZTVIOB:  `GSVIV RH
HFXS Z MRXV ORGGOV WLT MVZI LFI SLFHV R HSLFOW ORPV GL HSLD BLF!
Z ORGGOV YIRTSG-VBVW GVIIRVI, BLF PMLD, DRGS LS, HFXS OLMT XFIOB
YILDM SZRI!  ZMW RG'OO UVGXS GSRMTH DSVM BLF GSILD GSVN, ZMW
RG'OO HRG FK ZMW YVT ULI RGH WRMMVI, ZMW ZOO HLIGH LU GSRMTH--R
XZM'G IVNVNYVI SZOU LU GSVN--ZMW RG YVOLMTH GL Z UZINVI, BLF
PMLD, ZMW SV HZBH RG'H HL FHVUFO, RG'H DLIGS Z SFMWIVW KLFMWH!
SV HZBH RG PROOH ZOO GSV IZGH ZMW--LS WVZI!' XIRVW ZORXV RM Z
HLIILDUFO GLMV, `R'N ZUIZRW R'EV LUUVMWVW RG ZTZRM!'  ULI GSV
NLFHV DZH HDRNNRMT ZDZB UILN SVI ZH SZIW ZH RG XLFOW TL, ZMW
NZPRMT JFRGV Z XLNNLGRLM RM GSV KLLO ZH RG DVMG.

  HL HSV XZOOVW HLUGOB ZUGVI RG, `NLFHV WVZI!  WL XLNV YZXP
ZTZRM, ZMW DV DLM'G GZOP ZYLFG XZGH LI WLTH VRGSVI, RU BLF WLM'G
ORPV GSVN!'  DSVM GSV NLFHV SVZIW GSRH, RG GFIMVW ILFMW ZMW HDZN
HOLDOB YZXP GL SVI:  RGH UZXV DZH JFRGV KZOV (DRGS KZHHRLM, ZORXV
GSLFTSG), ZMW RG HZRW RM Z OLD GIVNYORMT ELRXV, `OVG FH TVG GL
GSV HSLIV, ZMW GSVM R'OO GVOO BLF NB SRHGLIB, ZMW BLF'OO
FMWVIHGZMW DSB RG RH R SZGV XZGH ZMW WLTH.'

  RG DZH SRTS GRNV GL TL, ULI GSV KLLO DZH TVGGRMT JFRGV XILDWVW
DRGS GSV YRIWH ZMW ZMRNZOH GSZG SZW UZOOVM RMGL RG:  GSVIV DVIV Z
WFXP ZMW Z WLWL, Z OLIB ZMW ZM VZTOVG, ZMW HVEVIZO LGSVI XFIRLFH
XIVZGFIVH.  ZORXV OVW GSV DZB, ZMW GSV DSLOV KZIGB HDZN GL GSV
HSLIV.



                           XSZKGVI RRR

                  Z XZFXFH-IZXV ZMW Z OLMT GZOV


  GSVB DVIV RMWVVW Z JFVVI-OLLPRMT KZIGB GSZG ZHHVNYOVW LM GSV
YZMP--GSV YRIWH DRGS WIZTTOVW UVZGSVIH, GSV ZMRNZOH DRGS GSVRI
UFI XORMTRMT XOLHV GL GSVN, ZMW ZOO WIRKKRMT DVG, XILHH, ZMW
FMXLNULIGZYOV.

  GSV URIHG JFVHGRLM LU XLFIHV DZH, SLD GL TVG WIB ZTZRM:  GSVB
SZW Z XLMHFOGZGRLM ZYLFG GSRH, ZMW ZUGVI Z UVD NRMFGVH RG HVVNVW
JFRGV MZGFIZO GL ZORXV GL URMW SVIHVOU GZOPRMT UZNRORZIOB DRGS
GSVN, ZH RU HSV SZW PMLDM GSVN ZOO SVI ORUV.  RMWVVW, HSV SZW
JFRGV Z OLMT ZITFNVMG DRGS GSV OLIB, DSL ZG OZHG GFIMVW HFOPB,
ZMW DLFOW LMOB HZB, `R ZN LOWVI GSZM BLF, ZMW NFHG PMLD YVGGVI';
ZMW GSRH ZORXV DLFOW MLG ZOOLD DRGSLFG PMLDRMT SLD LOW RG DZH,
ZMW, ZH GSV OLIB KLHRGREVOB IVUFHVW GL GVOO RGH ZTV, GSVIV DZH ML
NLIV GL YV HZRW.

  ZG OZHG GSV NLFHV, DSL HVVNVW GL YV Z KVIHLM LU ZFGSLIRGB ZNLMT
GSVN, XZOOVW LFG, `HRG WLDM, ZOO LU BLF, ZMW ORHGVM GL NV!  R'OO
HLLM NZPV BLF WIB VMLFTS!'  GSVB ZOO HZG WLDM ZG LMXV, RM Z OZITV
IRMT, DRGS GSV NLFHV RM GSV NRWWOV.  ZORXV PVKG SVI VBVH
ZMCRLFHOB URCVW LM RG, ULI HSV UVOG HFIV HSV DLFOW XZGXS Z YZW
XLOW RU HSV WRW MLG TVG WIB EVIB HLLM.

  `ZSVN!' HZRW GSV NLFHV DRGS ZM RNKLIGZMG ZRI, `ZIV BLF ZOO IVZWB?
GSRH RH GSV WIRVHG GSRMT R PMLD.  HROVMXV ZOO ILFMW, RU BLF KOVZHV!
"DROORZN GSV XLMJFVILI, DSLHV XZFHV DZH UZELFIVW YB GSV KLKV, DZH
HLLM HFYNRGGVW GL YB GSV VMTORHS, DSL DZMGVW OVZWVIH, ZMW SZW YVVM
LU OZGV NFXS ZXXFHGLNVW GL FHFIKZGRLM ZMW XLMJFVHG.  VWDRM ZMW
NLIXZI, GSV VZIOH LU NVIXRZ ZMW MLIGSFNYIRZ--"'

  `FTS!' HZRW GSV OLIB, DRGS Z HSREVI.

  `R YVT BLFI KZIWLM!' HZRW GSV NLFHV, UILDMRMT, YFG EVIB
KLORGVOB:  `WRW BLF HKVZP?'

  `MLG R!' HZRW GSV OLIB SZHGROB.

  `R GSLFTSG BLF WRW,' HZRW GSV NLFHV.  `--R KILXVVW.  "VWDRM ZMW
NLIXZI, GSV VZIOH LU NVIXRZ ZMW MLIGSFNYIRZ, WVXOZIVW ULI SRN:
ZMW VEVM HGRTZMW, GSV KZGIRLGRX ZIXSYRHSLK LU XZMGVIYFIB, ULFMW
RG ZWERHZYOV--"'

  `ULFMW DSZG?' HZRW GSV WFXP.

  `ULFMW RG,' GSV NLFHV IVKORVW IZGSVI XILHHOB:  `LU XLFIHV BLF
PMLD DSZG "RG" NVZMH.'

  `R PMLD DSZG "RG" NVZMH DVOO VMLFTS, DSVM R URMW Z GSRMT,' HZRW
GSV WFXP:  `RG'H TVMVIZOOB Z UILT LI Z DLIN.  GSV JFVHGRLM RH,
DSZG WRW GSV ZIXSYRHSLK URMW?'

  GSV NLFHV WRW MLG MLGRXV GSRH JFVHGRLM, YFG SFIIRVWOB DVMG LM,
`"--ULFMW RG ZWERHZYOV GL TL DRGS VWTZI ZGSVORMT GL NVVG DROORZN
ZMW LUUVI SRN GSV XILDM.  DROORZN'H XLMWFXG ZG URIHG DZH
NLWVIZGV.  YFG GSV RMHLOVMXV LU SRH MLINZMH--"  SLD ZIV BLF
TVGGRMT LM MLD, NB WVZI?' RG XLMGRMFVW, GFIMRMT GL ZORXV ZH RG
HKLPV.

  `ZH DVG ZH VEVI,' HZRW ZORXV RM Z NVOZMXSLOB GLMV:  `RG WLVHM'G
HVVN GL WIB NV ZG ZOO.'

  `RM GSZG XZHV,' HZRW GSV WLWL HLOVNMOB, IRHRMT GL RGH UVVG, `R
NLEV GSZG GSV NVVGRMT ZWQLFIM, ULI GSV RNNVWRZGV ZWLKGRLM LU NLIV
VMVITVGRX IVNVWRVH--'





                ZORXV'H ZWEVMGFIVH RM DLMWVIOZMW

                          OVDRH XZIILOO

               GSV NROOVMMRFN UFOXIFN VWRGRLM 2.9




                            XSZKGVI R

                      WLDM GSV IZYYRG-SLOV


  ZORXV DZH YVTRMMRMT GL TVG EVIB GRIVW LU HRGGRMT YB SVI HRHGVI
LM GSV YZMP, ZMW LU SZERMT MLGSRMT GL WL:  LMXV LI GDRXV HSV SZW
KVVKVW RMGL GSV YLLP SVI HRHGVI DZH IVZWRMT, YFG RG SZW ML
KRXGFIVH LI XLMEVIHZGRLMH RM RG, `ZMW DSZG RH GSV FHV LU Z YLLP,'
GSLFTSG ZORXV `DRGSLFG KRXGFIVH LI XLMEVIHZGRLM?'

  HL HSV DZH XLMHRWVIRMT RM SVI LDM NRMW (ZH DVOO ZH HSV XLFOW,
ULI GSV SLG WZB NZWV SVI UVVO EVIB HOVVKB ZMW HGFKRW), DSVGSVI
GSV KOVZHFIV LU NZPRMT Z WZRHB-XSZRM DLFOW YV DLIGS GSV GILFYOV
LU TVGGRMT FK ZMW KRXPRMT GSV WZRHRVH, DSVM HFWWVMOB Z DSRGV
IZYYRG DRGS KRMP VBVH IZM XOLHV YB SVI.

  GSVIV DZH MLGSRMT HL EVIB IVNZIPZYOV RM GSZG; MLI WRW ZORXV
GSRMP RG HL EVIB NFXS LFG LU GSV DZB GL SVZI GSV IZYYRG HZB GL
RGHVOU, `LS WVZI!  LS WVZI!  R HSZOO YV OZGV!'  (DSVM HSV GSLFTSG
RG LEVI ZUGVIDZIWH, RG LXXFIIVW GL SVI GSZG HSV LFTSG GL SZEV
DLMWVIVW ZG GSRH, YFG ZG GSV GRNV RG ZOO HVVNVW JFRGV MZGFIZO);
YFG DSVM GSV IZYYRG ZXGFZOOB GLLP Z DZGXS LFG LU RGH DZRHGXLZG-
KLXPVG, ZMW OLLPVW ZG RG, ZMW GSVM SFIIRVW LM, ZORXV HGZIGVW GL
SVI UVVG, ULI RG UOZHSVW ZXILHH SVI NRMW GSZG HSV SZW MVEVI
YVULIV HVVM Z IZYYRG DRGS VRGSVI Z DZRHGXLZG-KLXPVG, LI Z DZGXS GL
GZPV LFG LU RG, ZMW YFIMRMT DRGS XFIRLHRGB, HSV IZM ZXILHH GSV
URVOW ZUGVI RG, ZMW ULIGFMZGVOB DZH QFHG RM GRNV GL HVV RG KLK
WLDM Z OZITV IZYYRG-SLOV FMWVI GSV SVWTV.

  RM ZMLGSVI NLNVMG WLDM DVMG ZORXV ZUGVI RG, MVEVI LMXV
XLMHRWVIRMT SLD RM GSV DLIOW HSV DZH GL TVG LFG ZTZRM.

  GSV IZYYRG-SLOV DVMG HGIZRTSG LM ORPV Z GFMMVO ULI HLNV DZB,
ZMW GSVM WRKKVW HFWWVMOB WLDM, HL HFWWVMOB GSZG ZORXV SZW MLG Z
NLNVMG GL GSRMP ZYLFG HGLKKRMT SVIHVOU YVULIV HSV ULFMW SVIHVOU
UZOORMT WLDM Z EVIB WVVK DVOO.

  VRGSVI GSV DVOO DZH EVIB WVVK, LI HSV UVOO EVIB HOLDOB, ULI HSV
SZW KOVMGB LU GRNV ZH HSV DVMG WLDM GL OLLP ZYLFG SVI ZMW GL
DLMWVI DSZG DZH TLRMT GL SZKKVM MVCG.  URIHG, HSV GIRVW GL OLLP
WLDM ZMW NZPV LFG DSZG HSV DZH XLNRMT GL, YFG RG DZH GLL WZIP GL
HVV ZMBGSRMT; GSVM HSV OLLPVW ZG GSV HRWVH LU GSV DVOO, ZMW
MLGRXVW GSZG GSVB DVIV UROOVW DRGS XFKYLZIWH ZMW YLLP-HSVOEVH;
SVIV ZMW GSVIV HSV HZD NZKH ZMW KRXGFIVH SFMT FKLM KVTH.  HSV
GLLP WLDM Z QZI UILN LMV LU GSV HSVOEVH ZH HSV KZHHVW; RG DZH
OZYVOOVW `LIZMTV NZINZOZWV', YFG GL SVI TIVZG WRHZKKLRMGNVMG RG
DZH VNKGB:  HSV WRW MLG ORPV GL WILK GSV QZI ULI UVZI LU PROORMT
HLNVYLWB, HL NZMZTVW GL KFG RG RMGL LMV LU GSV XFKYLZIWH ZH HSV
UVOO KZHG RG.

  `DVOO!' GSLFTSG ZORXV GL SVIHVOU, `ZUGVI HFXS Z UZOO ZH GSRH, R
HSZOO GSRMP MLGSRMT LU GFNYORMT WLDM HGZRIH!  SLD YIZEV GSVB'OO
ZOO GSRMP NV ZG SLNV!  DSB, R DLFOWM'G HZB ZMBGSRMT ZYLFG RG,
VEVM RU R UVOO LUU GSV GLK LU GSV SLFHV!' (DSRXS DZH EVIB ORPVOB
GIFV.)

  WLDM, WLDM, WLDM.  DLFOW GSV UZOO MVEVI XLNV GL ZM VMW!  `R
DLMWVI SLD NZMB NROVH R'EV UZOOVM YB GSRH GRNV?' HSV HZRW ZOLFW.
`R NFHG YV TVGGRMT HLNVDSVIV MVZI GSV XVMGIV LU GSV VZIGS.  OVG
NV HVV:  GSZG DLFOW YV ULFI GSLFHZMW NROVH WLDM, R GSRMP--' (ULI,
BLF HVV, ZORXV SZW OVZIMG HVEVIZO GSRMTH LU GSRH HLIG RM SVI
OVHHLMH RM GSV HXSLLOILLN, ZMW GSLFTS GSRH DZH MLG Z EVIB TLLW
LKKLIGFMRGB ULI HSLDRMT LUU SVI PMLDOVWTV, ZH GSVIV DZH ML LMV GL
ORHGVM GL SVI, HGROO RG DZH TLLW KIZXGRXV GL HZB RG LEVI) `--BVH,
GSZG'H ZYLFG GSV IRTSG WRHGZMXV--YFG GSVM R DLMWVI DSZG OZGRGFWV
LI OLMTRGFWV R'EV TLG GL?'  (ZORXV SZW ML RWVZ DSZG OZGRGFWV DZH,
LI OLMTRGFWV VRGSVI, YFG GSLFTSG GSVB DVIV MRXV TIZMW DLIWH GL
HZB.)

  KIVHVMGOB HSV YVTZM ZTZRM.  `R DLMWVI RU R HSZOO UZOO IRTSG
GSILFTS GSV VZIGS!  SLD UFMMB RG'OO HVVN GL XLNV LFG ZNLMT GSV
KVLKOV GSZG DZOP DRGS GSVRI SVZWH WLDMDZIW!  GSV ZMGRKZGSRVH, R
GSRMP--' (HSV DZH IZGSVI TOZW GSVIV DZH ML LMV ORHGVMRMT, GSRH
GRNV, ZH RG WRWM'G HLFMW ZG ZOO GSV IRTSG DLIW) `--YFG R HSZOO
SZEV GL ZHP GSVN DSZG GSV MZNV LU GSV XLFMGIB RH, BLF PMLD.
KOVZHV, NZ'ZN, RH GSRH MVD AVZOZMW LI ZFHGIZORZ?' (ZMW HSV GIRVW
GL XFIGHVB ZH HSV HKLPV--UZMXB XFIGHVBRMT ZH BLF'IV UZOORMT
GSILFTS GSV ZRI!  WL BLF GSRMP BLF XLFOW NZMZTV RG?)  `ZMW DSZG
ZM RTMLIZMG ORGGOV TRIO HSV'OO GSRMP NV ULI ZHPRMT!  ML, RG'OO
MVEVI WL GL ZHP:  KVISZKH R HSZOO HVV RG DIRGGVM FK HLNVDSVIV.'

  WLDM, WLDM, WLDM.  GSVIV DZH MLGSRMT VOHV GL WL, HL ZORXV HLLM
YVTZM GZOPRMT ZTZRM.  `WRMZS'OO NRHH NV EVIB NFXS GL-MRTSG, R
HSLFOW GSRMP!'  (WRMZS DZH GSV XZG.)  `R SLKV GSVB'OO IVNVNYVI
SVI HZFXVI LU NROP ZG GVZ-GRNV.  WRMZS NB WVZI!  R DRHS BLF DVIV
WLDM SVIV DRGS NV!  GSVIV ZIV ML NRXV RM GSV ZRI, R'N ZUIZRW, YFG
BLF NRTSG XZGXS Z YZG, ZMW GSZG'H EVIB ORPV Z NLFHV, BLF PMLD.
YFG WL XZGH VZG YZGH, R DLMWVI?'  ZMW SVIV ZORXV YVTZM GL TVG
IZGSVI HOVVKB, ZMW DVMG LM HZBRMT GL SVIHVOU, RM Z WIVZNB HLIG LU
DZB, `WL XZGH VZG YZGH?  WL XZGH VZG YZGH?' ZMW HLNVGRNVH, `WL
YZGH VZG XZGH?' ULI, BLF HVV, ZH HSV XLFOWM'G ZMHDVI VRGSVI
JFVHGRLM, RG WRWM'G NFXS NZGGVI DSRXS DZB HSV KFG RG.  HSV UVOG
GSZG HSV DZH WLARMT LUU, ZMW SZW QFHG YVTFM GL WIVZN GSZG HSV
DZH DZOPRMT SZMW RM SZMW DRGS WRMZS, ZMW HZBRMT GL SVI EVIB
VZIMVHGOB, `MLD, WRMZS, GVOO NV GSV GIFGS:  WRW BLF VEVI VZG Z
YZG?' DSVM HFWWVMOB, GSFNK! GSFNK! WLDM HSV XZNV FKLM Z SVZK LU
HGRXPH ZMW WIB OVZEVH, ZMW GSV UZOO DZH LEVI.

  ZORXV DZH MLG Z YRG SFIG, ZMW HSV QFNKVW FK LM GL SVI UVVG RM Z
NLNVMG:  HSV OLLPVW FK, YFG RG DZH ZOO WZIP LEVISVZW; YVULIV SVI
DZH ZMLGSVI OLMT KZHHZTV, ZMW GSV DSRGV IZYYRG DZH HGROO RM
HRTSG, SFIIBRMT WLDM RG.  GSVIV DZH MLG Z NLNVMG GL YV OLHG:
ZDZB DVMG ZORXV ORPV GSV DRMW, ZMW DZH QFHG RM GRNV GL SVZI RG
HZB, ZH RG GFIMVW Z XLIMVI, `LS NB VZIH ZMW DSRHPVIH, SLD OZGV
RG'H TVGGRMT!'  HSV DZH XOLHV YVSRMW RG DSVM HSV GFIMVW GSV
XLIMVI, YFG GSV IZYYRG DZH ML OLMTVI GL YV HVVM:  HSV ULFMW
SVIHVOU RM Z OLMT, OLD SZOO, DSRXS DZH ORG FK YB Z ILD LU OZNKH
SZMTRMT UILN GSV ILLU.

  GSVIV DVIV WLLIH ZOO ILFMW GSV SZOO, YFG GSVB DVIV ZOO OLXPVW;
ZMW DSVM ZORXV SZW YVVM ZOO GSV DZB WLDM LMV HRWV ZMW FK GSV
LGSVI, GIBRMT VEVIB WLLI, HSV DZOPVW HZWOB WLDM GSV NRWWOV,
DLMWVIRMT SLD HSV DZH VEVI GL TVG LFG ZTZRM.

  HFWWVMOB HSV XZNV FKLM Z ORGGOV GSIVV-OVTTVW GZYOV, ZOO NZWV LU
HLORW TOZHH; GSVIV DZH MLGSRMT LM RG VCXVKG Z GRMB TLOWVM PVB,
ZMW ZORXV'H URIHG GSLFTSG DZH GSZG RG NRTSG YVOLMT GL LMV LU GSV
WLLIH LU GSV SZOO; YFG, ZOZH! VRGSVI GSV OLXPH DVIV GLL OZITV, LI
GSV PVB DZH GLL HNZOO, YFG ZG ZMB IZGV RG DLFOW MLG LKVM ZMB LU
GSVN.  SLDVEVI, LM GSV HVXLMW GRNV ILFMW, HSV XZNV FKLM Z OLD
XFIGZRM HSV SZW MLG MLGRXVW YVULIV, ZMW YVSRMW RG DZH Z ORGGOV
WLLI ZYLFG URUGVVM RMXSVH SRTS:  HSV GIRVW GSV ORGGOV TLOWVM PVB
RM GSV OLXP, ZMW GL SVI TIVZG WVORTSG RG URGGVW!

  ZORXV LKVMVW GSV WLLI ZMW ULFMW GSZG RG OVW RMGL Z HNZOO
KZHHZTV, MLG NFXS OZITVI GSZM Z IZG-SLOV:  HSV PMVOG WLDM ZMW
OLLPVW ZOLMT GSV KZHHZTV RMGL GSV OLEVORVHG TZIWVM BLF VEVI HZD.
SLD HSV OLMTVW GL TVG LFG LU GSZG WZIP SZOO, ZMW DZMWVI ZYLFG
ZNLMT GSLHV YVWH LU YIRTSG UOLDVIH ZMW GSLHV XLLO ULFMGZRMH, YFG
HSV XLFOW MLG VEVM TVG SVI SVZW GSLFTS GSV WLLIDZB; `ZMW VEVM RU
NB SVZW DLFOW TL GSILFTS,' GSLFTSG KLLI ZORXV, `RG DLFOW YV LU
EVIB ORGGOV FHV DRGSLFG NB HSLFOWVIH.  LS, SLD R DRHS
R XLFOW HSFG FK ORPV Z GVOVHXLKV!  R GSRMP R XLFOW, RU R LMOB
PMLD SLD GL YVTRM.'  ULI, BLF HVV, HL NZMB LFG-LU-GSV-DZB GSRMTH
SZW SZKKVMVW OZGVOB, GSZG ZORXV SZW YVTFM GL GSRMP GSZG EVIB UVD
GSRMTH RMWVVW DVIV IVZOOB RNKLHHRYOV.

  GSVIV HVVNVW GL YV ML FHV RM DZRGRMT YB GSV ORGGOV WLLI, HL HSV
DVMG YZXP GL GSV GZYOV, SZOU SLKRMT HSV NRTSG URMW ZMLGSVI PVB LM
RG, LI ZG ZMB IZGV Z YLLP LU IFOVH ULI HSFGGRMT KVLKOV FK ORPV
GVOVHXLKVH:  GSRH GRNV HSV ULFMW Z ORGGOV YLGGOV LM RG, (`DSRXS
XVIGZRMOB DZH MLG SVIV YVULIV,' HZRW ZORXV,) ZMW ILFMW GSV MVXP
LU GSV YLGGOV DZH Z KZKVI OZYVO, DRGS GSV DLIWH `WIRMP NV'
YVZFGRUFOOB KIRMGVW LM RG RM OZITV OVGGVIH.

  RG DZH ZOO EVIB DVOO GL HZB `WIRMP NV,' YFG GSV DRHV ORGGOV
ZORXV DZH MLG TLRMT GL WL GSZG RM Z SFIIB.  `ML, R'OO OLLP
URIHG,' HSV HZRW, `ZMW HVV DSVGSVI RG'H NZIPVW "KLRHLM" LI MLG';
ULI HSV SZW IVZW HVEVIZO MRXV ORGGOV SRHGLIRVH ZYLFG XSROWIVM DSL
SZW TLG YFIMG, ZMW VZGVM FK YB DROW YVZHGH ZMW LGSVI FMKOVZHZMG
GSRMTH, ZOO YVXZFHV GSVB DLFOW MLG IVNVNYVI GSV HRNKOV IFOVH
GSVRI UIRVMWH SZW GZFTSG GSVN:  HFXS ZH, GSZG Z IVW-SLG KLPVI
DROO YFIM BLF RU BLF SLOW RG GLL OLMT; ZMW GSZG RU BLF XFG BLFI
URMTVI EVIB WVVKOB DRGS Z PMRUV, RG FHFZOOB YOVVWH; ZMW HSV SZW
MVEVI ULITLGGVM GSZG, RU BLF WIRMP NFXS UILN Z YLGGOV NZIPVW
`KLRHLM,' RG RH ZONLHG XVIGZRM GL WRHZTIVV DRGS BLF, HLLMVI LI
OZGVI.

  SLDVEVI, GSRH YLGGOV DZH MLG NZIPVW `KLRHLM,' HL ZORXV EVMGFIVW
GL GZHGV RG, ZMW URMWRMT RG EVIB MRXV, (RG SZW, RM UZXG, Z HLIG
LU NRCVW UOZELFI LU XSVIIB-GZIG, XFHGZIW, KRMV-ZKKOV, ILZHG
GFIPVB, GLUUVV, ZMW SLG YFGGVIVW GLZHG,) HSV EVIB HLLM URMRHSVW
RG LUU.

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

         *       *       *       *       *       *

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

  `DSZG Z XFIRLFH UVVORMT!' HZRW ZORXV; `R NFHG YV HSFGGRMT FK
ORPV Z GVOVHXLKV.'

  ZMW HL RG DZH RMWVVW:  HSV DZH MLD LMOB GVM RMXSVH SRTS, ZMW
SVI UZXV YIRTSGVMVW FK ZG GSV GSLFTSG GSZG HSV DZH MLD GSV IRTSG
HRAV ULI TLRMT GSLFTS GSV ORGGOV WLLI RMGL GSZG OLEVOB TZIWVM.
URIHG, SLDVEVI, HSV DZRGVW ULI Z UVD NRMFGVH GL HVV RU HSV DZH
TLRMT GL HSIRMP ZMB UFIGSVI:  HSV UVOG Z ORGGOV MVIELFH ZYLFG
GSRH; `ULI RG NRTSG VMW, BLF PMLD,' HZRW ZORXV GL SVIHVOU, `RM NB
TLRMT LFG ZOGLTVGSVI, ORPV Z XZMWOV.  R DLMWVI DSZG R HSLFOW YV
ORPV GSVM?'  ZMW HSV GIRVW GL UZMXB DSZG GSV UOZNV LU Z XZMWOV RH
ORPV ZUGVI GSV XZMWOV RH YOLDM LFG, ULI HSV XLFOW MLG IVNVNYVI
VEVI SZERMT HVVM HFXS Z GSRMT.

  ZUGVI Z DSROV, URMWRMT GSZG MLGSRMT NLIV SZKKVMVW, HSV WVXRWVW
LM TLRMT RMGL GSV TZIWVM ZG LMXV; YFG, ZOZH ULI KLLI ZORXV! DSVM
HSV TLG GL GSV WLLI, HSV ULFMW SV SZW ULITLGGVM GSV ORGGOV TLOWVM
PVB, ZMW DSVM HSV DVMG YZXP GL GSV GZYOV ULI RG, HSV ULFMW HSV
XLFOW MLG KLHHRYOB IVZXS RG:  HSV XLFOW HVV RG JFRGV KOZRMOB
GSILFTS GSV TOZHH, ZMW HSV GIRVW SVI YVHG GL XORNY FK LMV LU GSV
OVTH LU GSV GZYOV, YFG RG DZH GLL HORKKVIB; ZMW DSVM HSV SZW
GRIVW SVIHVOU LFG DRGS GIBRMT, GSV KLLI ORGGOV GSRMT HZG WLDM ZMW
XIRVW.

  `XLNV, GSVIV'H ML FHV RM XIBRMT ORPV GSZG!' HZRW ZORXV GL
SVIHVOU, IZGSVI HSZIKOB; `R ZWERHV BLF GL OVZEV LUU GSRH NRMFGV!'
HSV TVMVIZOOB TZEV SVIHVOU EVIB TLLW ZWERXV, (GSLFTS HSV EVIB
HVOWLN ULOOLDVW RG), ZMW HLNVGRNVH HSV HXLOWVW SVIHVOU HL
HVEVIVOB ZH GL YIRMT GVZIH RMGL SVI VBVH; ZMW LMXV HSV IVNVNYVIVW
GIBRMT GL YLC SVI LDM VZIH ULI SZERMT XSVZGVW SVIHVOU RM Z TZNV
LU XILJFVG HSV DZH KOZBRMT ZTZRMHG SVIHVOU, ULI GSRH XFIRLFH
XSROW DZH EVIB ULMW LU KIVGVMWRMT GL YV GDL KVLKOV.  `YFG RG'H ML
FHV MLD,' GSLFTSG KLLI ZORXV, `GL KIVGVMW GL YV GDL KVLKOV!  DSB,
GSVIV'H SZIWOB VMLFTS LU NV OVUG GL NZPV LMV IVHKVXGZYOV
KVIHLM!'

  HLLM SVI VBV UVOO LM Z ORGGOV TOZHH YLC GSZG DZH OBRMT FMWVI
GSV GZYOV:  HSV LKVMVW RG, ZMW ULFMW RM RG Z EVIB HNZOO XZPV, LM
DSRXS GSV DLIWH `VZG NV' DVIV YVZFGRUFOOB NZIPVW RM XFIIZMGH.
`DVOO, R'OO VZG RG,' HZRW ZORXV, `ZMW RU RG NZPVH NV TILD OZITVI,
R XZM IVZXS GSV PVB; ZMW RU RG NZPVH NV TILD HNZOOVI, R XZM XIVVK
FMWVI GSV WLLI; HL VRGSVI DZB R'OO TVG RMGL GSV TZIWVM, ZMW R
WLM'G XZIV DSRXS SZKKVMH!'

  HSV ZGV Z ORGGOV YRG, ZMW HZRW ZMCRLFHOB GL SVIHVOU, `DSRXS
DZB?  DSRXS DZB?', SLOWRMT SVI SZMW LM GSV GLK LU SVI SVZW GL
UVVO DSRXS DZB RG DZH TILDRMT, ZMW HSV DZH JFRGV HFIKIRHVW GL
URMW GSZG HSV IVNZRMVW GSV HZNV HRAV:  GL YV HFIV, GSRH TVMVIZOOB
SZKKVMH DSVM LMV VZGH XZPV, YFG ZORXV SZW TLG HL NFXS RMGL GSV
DZB LU VCKVXGRMT MLGSRMT YFG LFG-LU-GSV-DZB GSRMTH GL SZKKVM,
GSZG RG HVVNVW JFRGV WFOO ZMW HGFKRW ULI ORUV GL TL LM RM GSV
XLNNLM DZB.

  HL HSV HVG GL DLIP, ZMW EVIB HLLM URMRHSVW LUU GSV XZPV.

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

         *       *       *       *       *       *

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *




                           XSZKGVI RR

                        GSV KLLO LU GVZIH


  `XFIRLFHVI ZMW XFIRLFHVI!' XIRVW ZORXV (HSV DZH HL NFXS
HFIKIRHVW, GSZG ULI GSV NLNVMG HSV JFRGV ULITLG SLD GL HKVZP TLLW
VMTORHS); `MLD R'N LKVMRMT LFG ORPV GSV OZITVHG GVOVHXLKV GSZG
VEVI DZH!  TLLW-YBV, UVVG!' (ULI DSVM HSV OLLPVW WLDM ZG SVI
UVVG, GSVB HVVNVW GL YV ZONLHG LFG LU HRTSG, GSVB DVIV TVGGRMT HL
UZI LUU).  `LS, NB KLLI ORGGOV UVVG, R DLMWVI DSL DROO KFG LM
BLFI HSLVH ZMW HGLXPRMTH ULI BLF MLD, WVZIH?  R'N HFIV _R_ HSZM'G
YV ZYOV!  R HSZOO YV Z TIVZG WVZO GLL UZI LUU GL GILFYOV NBHVOU
ZYLFG BLF:  BLF NFHG NZMZTV GSV YVHG DZB BLF XZM; --YFG R NFHG YV
PRMW GL GSVN,' GSLFTSG ZORXV, `LI KVISZKH GSVB DLM'G DZOP GSV
DZB R DZMG GL TL!  OVG NV HVV:  R'OO TREV GSVN Z MVD KZRI LU
YLLGH VEVIB XSIRHGNZH.'

  ZMW HSV DVMG LM KOZMMRMT GL SVIHVOU SLD HSV DLFOW NZMZTV RG.
`GSVB NFHG TL YB GSV XZIIRVI,' HSV GSLFTSG; `ZMW SLD UFMMB RG'OO
HVVN, HVMWRMT KIVHVMGH GL LMV'H LDM UVVG!  ZMW SLD LWW GSV
WRIVXGRLMH DROO OLLP!

            ZORXV'H IRTSG ULLG, VHJ.
                SVZIGSIFT,
                    MVZI GSV UVMWVI,
                        (DRGS ZORXV'H OLEV).

LS WVZI, DSZG MLMHVMHV R'N GZOPRMT!'

  QFHG GSVM SVI SVZW HGIFXP ZTZRMHG GSV ILLU LU GSV SZOO:  RM
UZXG HSV DZH MLD NLIV GSZM MRMV UVVG SRTS, ZMW HSV ZG LMXV GLLP
FK GSV ORGGOV TLOWVM PVB ZMW SFIIRVW LUU GL GSV TZIWVM WLLI.

  KLLI ZORXV!  RG DZH ZH NFXS ZH HSV XLFOW WL, OBRMT WLDM LM LMV
HRWV, GL OLLP GSILFTS RMGL GSV TZIWVM DRGS LMV VBV; YFG GL TVG
GSILFTS DZH NLIV SLKVOVHH GSZM VEVI:  HSV HZG WLDM ZMW YVTZM GL
XIB ZTZRM.

  `BLF LFTSG GL YV ZHSZNVW LU BLFIHVOU,' HZRW ZORXV, `Z TIVZG
TRIO ORPV BLF,' (HSV NRTSG DVOO HZB GSRH), `GL TL LM XIBRMT RM
GSRH DZB!  HGLK GSRH NLNVMG, R GVOO BLF!'  YFG HSV DVMG LM ZOO
GSV HZNV, HSVWWRMT TZOOLMH LU GVZIH, FMGRO GSVIV DZH Z OZITV KLLO
ZOO ILFMW SVI, ZYLFG ULFI RMXSVH WVVK ZMW IVZXSRMT SZOU WLDM GSV
SZOO.

  ZUGVI Z GRNV HSV SVZIW Z ORGGOV KZGGVIRMT LU UVVG RM GSV
WRHGZMXV, ZMW HSV SZHGROB WIRVW SVI VBVH GL HVV DSZG DZH XLNRMT.
RG DZH GSV DSRGV IZYYRG IVGFIMRMT, HKOVMWRWOB WIVHHVW, DRGS Z
KZRI LU DSRGV PRW TOLEVH RM LMV SZMW ZMW Z OZITV UZM RM GSV
LGSVI:  SV XZNV GILGGRMT ZOLMT RM Z TIVZG SFIIB, NFGGVIRMT GL
SRNHVOU ZH SV XZNV, `LS! GSV WFXSVHH, GSV WFXSVHH! LS! DLM'G HSV
YV HZEZTV RU R'EV PVKG SVI DZRGRMT!'  ZORXV UVOG HL WVHKVIZGV
GSZG HSV DZH IVZWB GL ZHP SVOK LU ZMB LMV; HL, DSVM GSV IZYYRG
XZNV MVZI SVI, HSV YVTZM, RM Z OLD, GRNRW ELRXV, `RU BLF KOVZHV,
HRI--'  GSV IZYYRG HGZIGVW ERLOVMGOB, WILKKVW GSV DSRGV PRW
TOLEVH ZMW GSV UZM, ZMW HPFIIRVW ZDZB RMGL GSV WZIPMVHH ZH SZIW
ZH SV XLFOW TL.

  ZORXV GLLP FK GSV UZM ZMW TOLEVH, ZMW, ZH GSV SZOO DZH EVIB
SLG, HSV PVKG UZMMRMT SVIHVOU ZOO GSV GRNV HSV DVMG LM GZOPRMT:
`WVZI, WVZI!  SLD JFVVI VEVIBGSRMT RH GL-WZB!  ZMW BVHGVIWZB
GSRMTH DVMG LM QFHG ZH FHFZO.  R DLMWVI RU R'EV YVVM XSZMTVW RM
GSV MRTSG?  OVG NV GSRMP:  DZH R GSV HZNV DSVM R TLG FK GSRH
NLIMRMT?  R ZONLHG GSRMP R XZM IVNVNYVI UVVORMT Z ORGGOV
WRUUVIVMG.  YFG RU R'N MLG GSV HZNV, GSV MVCG JFVHGRLM RH, DSL RM
GSV DLIOW ZN R?  ZS, GSZG'H GSV TIVZG KFAAOV!'  ZMW HSV YVTZM
GSRMPRMT LEVI ZOO GSV XSROWIVM HSV PMVD GSZG DVIV LU GSV HZNV ZTV
ZH SVIHVOU, GL HVV RU HSV XLFOW SZEV YVVM XSZMTVW ULI ZMB LU
GSVN.

  `R'N HFIV R'N MLG ZWZ,' HSV HZRW, `ULI SVI SZRI TLVH RM HFXS
OLMT IRMTOVGH, ZMW NRMV WLVHM'G TL RM IRMTOVGH ZG ZOO; ZMW R'N
HFIV R XZM'G YV NZYVO, ULI R PMLD ZOO HLIGH LU GSRMTH, ZMW HSV,
LS! HSV PMLDH HFXS Z EVIB ORGGOV!  YVHRWVH, HSV'H HSV, ZMW R'N R,
ZMW--LS WVZI, SLD KFAAORMT RG ZOO RH!  R'OO GIB RU R PMLD ZOO GSV
GSRMTH R FHVW GL PMLD.  OVG NV HVV:  ULFI GRNVH UREV RH GDVOEV,
ZMW ULFI GRNVH HRC RH GSRIGVVM, ZMW ULFI GRNVH HVEVM RH--LS WVZI!
R HSZOO MVEVI TVG GL GDVMGB ZG GSZG IZGV!  SLDVEVI, GSV
NFOGRKORXZGRLM GZYOV WLVHM'G HRTMRUB:  OVG'H GIB TVLTIZKSB.
OLMWLM RH GSV XZKRGZO LU KZIRH, ZMW KZIRH RH GSV XZKRGZO LU ILNV,
ZMW ILNV--ML, GSZG'H ZOO DILMT, R'N XVIGZRM!  R NFHG SZEV YVVM
XSZMTVW ULI NZYVO!  R'OO GIB ZMW HZB "SLD WLGS GSV ORGGOV--"'
ZMW HSV XILHHVW SVI SZMWH LM SVI OZK ZH RU HSV DVIV HZBRMT OVHHLMH,
ZMW YVTZM GL IVKVZG RG, YFG SVI ELRXV HLFMWVW SLZIHV ZMW
HGIZMTV, ZMW GSV DLIWH WRW MLG XLNV GSV HZNV ZH GSVB FHVW GL WL:--

            `SLD WLGS GSV ORGGOV XILXLWROV
              RNKILEV SRH HSRMRMT GZRO,
            ZMW KLFI GSV DZGVIH LU GSV MROV
              LM VEVIB TLOWVM HXZOV!

            `SLD XSVVIUFOOB SV HVVNH GL TIRM,
              SLD MVZGOB HKIVZW SRH XOZDH,
            ZMW DVOXLNV ORGGOV URHSVH RM
              DRGS TVMGOB HNRORMT QZDH!'

  `R'N HFIV GSLHV ZIV MLG GSV IRTSG DLIWH,' HZRW KLLI ZORXV, ZMW
SVI VBVH UROOVW DRGS GVZIH ZTZRM ZH HSV DVMG LM, `R NFHG YV NZYVO
ZUGVI ZOO, ZMW R HSZOO SZEV GL TL ZMW OREV RM GSZG KLPB ORGGOV
SLFHV, ZMW SZEV MVCG GL ML GLBH GL KOZB DRGS, ZMW LS! VEVI HL
NZMB OVHHLMH GL OVZIM!  ML, R'EV NZWV FK NB NRMW ZYLFG RG; RU R'N
NZYVO, R'OO HGZB WLDM SVIV!  RG'OO YV ML FHV GSVRI KFGGRMT GSVRI
SVZWH WLDM ZMW HZBRMT "XLNV FK ZTZRM, WVZI!"  R HSZOO LMOB OLLP
FK ZMW HZB "DSL ZN R GSVM?  GVOO NV GSZG URIHG, ZMW GSVM, RU R
ORPV YVRMT GSZG KVIHLM, R'OO XLNV FK:  RU MLG, R'OO HGZB WLDM
SVIV GROO R'N HLNVYLWB VOHV"--YFG, LS WVZI!' XIRVW ZORXV, DRGS Z
HFWWVM YFIHG LU GVZIH, `R WL DRHS GSVB DLFOW KFG GSVRI SVZWH
WLDM!  R ZN HL EVIB GRIVW LU YVRMT ZOO ZOLMV SVIV!'

  ZH HSV HZRW GSRH HSV OLLPVW WLDM ZG SVI SZMWH, ZMW DZH
HFIKIRHVW GL HVV GSZG HSV SZW KFG LM LMV LU GSV IZYYRG'H ORGGOV
DSRGV PRW TOLEVH DSROV HSV DZH GZOPRMT.  `SLD XZM R SZEV WLMV
GSZG?' HSV GSLFTSG.  `R NFHG YV TILDRMT HNZOO ZTZRM.'  HSV TLG FK
ZMW DVMG GL GSV GZYOV GL NVZHFIV SVIHVOU YB RG, ZMW ULFMW GSZG,
ZH MVZIOB ZH HSV XLFOW TFVHH, HSV DZH MLD ZYLFG GDL UVVG SRTS,
ZMW DZH TLRMT LM HSIRMPRMT IZKRWOB:  HSV HLLM ULFMW LFG GSZG GSV
XZFHV LU GSRH DZH GSV UZM HSV DZH SLOWRMT, ZMW HSV WILKKVW RG
SZHGROB, QFHG RM GRNV GL ZELRW HSIRMPRMT ZDZB ZOGLTVGSVI.

`GSZG DZH Z MZIILD VHXZKV!' HZRW ZORXV, Z TLLW WVZO UIRTSGVMVW ZG
GSV HFWWVM XSZMTV, YFG EVIB TOZW GL URMW SVIHVOU HGROO RM
VCRHGVMXV; `ZMW MLD ULI GSV TZIWVM!' ZMW HSV IZM DRGS ZOO HKVVW
YZXP GL GSV ORGGOV WLLI:  YFG, ZOZH! GSV ORGGOV WLLI DZH HSFG
ZTZRM, ZMW GSV ORGGOV TLOWVM PVB DZH OBRMT LM GSV TOZHH GZYOV ZH
YVULIV, `ZMW GSRMTH ZIV DLIHV GSZM VEVI,' GSLFTSG GSV KLLI XSROW,
`ULI R MVEVI DZH HL HNZOO ZH GSRH YVULIV, MVEVI!  ZMW R WVXOZIV
RG'H GLL YZW, GSZG RG RH!'

  ZH HSV HZRW GSVHV DLIWH SVI ULLG HORKKVW, ZMW RM ZMLGSVI
NLNVMG, HKOZHS! HSV DZH FK GL SVI XSRM RM HZOG DZGVI.  SV URIHG
RWVZ DZH GSZG HSV SZW HLNVSLD UZOOVM RMGL GSV HVZ, `ZMW RM GSZG
XZHV R XZM TL YZXP YB IZRODZB,' HSV HZRW GL SVIHVOU.  (ZORXV SZW
YVVM GL GSV HVZHRWV LMXV RM SVI ORUV, ZMW SZW XLNV GL GSV TVMVIZO
XLMXOFHRLM, GSZG DSVIVEVI BLF TL GL LM GSV VMTORHS XLZHG BLF URMW
Z MFNYVI LU YZGSRMT NZXSRMVH RM GSV HVZ, HLNV XSROWIVM WRTTRMT RM
GSV HZMW DRGS DLLWVM HKZWVH, GSVM Z ILD LU OLWTRMT SLFHVH, ZMW
YVSRMW GSVN Z IZRODZB HGZGRLM.)  SLDVEVI, HSV HLLM NZWV LFG GSZG
HSV DZH RM GSV KLLO LU GVZIH DSRXS HSV SZW DVKG DSVM HSV DZH MRMV
UVVG SRTS.

  `R DRHS R SZWM'G XIRVW HL NFXS!' HZRW ZORXV, ZH HSV HDZN ZYLFG,
GIBRMT GL URMW SVI DZB LFG.  `R HSZOO YV KFMRHSVW ULI RG MLD, R
HFKKLHV, YB YVRMT WILDMVW RM NB LDM GVZIH!  GSZG DROO YV Z JFVVI
GSRMT, GL YV HFIV!  SLDVEVI, VEVIBGSRMT RH JFVVI GL-WZB.'

  QFHG GSVM HSV SVZIW HLNVGSRMT HKOZHSRMT ZYLFG RM GSV KLLO Z
ORGGOV DZB LUU, ZMW HSV HDZN MVZIVI GL NZPV LFG DSZG RG DZH:  ZG
URIHG HSV GSLFTSG RG NFHG YV Z DZOIFH LI SRKKLKLGZNFH, YFG GSVM
HSV IVNVNYVIVW SLD HNZOO HSV DZH MLD, ZMW HSV HLLM NZWV LFG GSZG
RG DZH LMOB Z NLFHV GSZG SZW HORKKVW RM ORPV SVIHVOU.

  `DLFOW RG YV LU ZMB FHV, MLD,' GSLFTSG ZORXV, `GL HKVZP GL GSRH
NLFHV?  VEVIBGSRMT RH HL LFG-LU-GSV-DZB WLDM SVIV, GSZG R HSLFOW
GSRMP EVIB ORPVOB RG XZM GZOP:  ZG ZMB IZGV, GSVIV'H ML SZIN RM
GIBRMT.'  HL HSV YVTZM:  `L NLFHV, WL BLF PMLD GSV DZB LFG LU
GSRH KLLO?  R ZN EVIB GRIVW LU HDRNNRMT ZYLFG SVIV, L NLFHV!'
(ZORXV GSLFTSG GSRH NFHG YV GSV IRTSG DZB LU HKVZPRMT GL Z NLFHV:
HSV SZW MVEVI WLMV HFXS Z GSRMT YVULIV, YFG HSV IVNVNYVIVW SZERMT
HVVM RM SVI YILGSVI'H OZGRM TIZNNZI, `Z NLFHV--LU Z NLFHV--GL Z
NLFHV--Z NLFHV--L NLFHV!'  GSV NLFHV OLLPVW ZG SVI IZGSVI
RMJFRHRGREVOB, ZMW HVVNVW GL SVI GL DRMP DRGS LMV LU RGH ORGGOV
VBVH, YFG RG HZRW MLGSRMT.

  `KVISZKH RG WLVHM'G FMWVIHGZMW VMTORHS,' GSLFTSG ZORXV; `R
WZIVHZB RG'H Z UIVMXS NLFHV, XLNV LEVI DRGS DROORZN GSV
XLMJFVILI.'  (ULI, DRGS ZOO SVI PMLDOVWTV LU SRHGLIB, ZORXV SZW
ML EVIB XOVZI MLGRLM SLD OLMT ZTL ZMBGSRMT SZW SZKKVMVW.)  HL HSV
YVTZM ZTZRM:  `LF VHG NZ XSZGGV?' DSRXS DZH GSV URIHG HVMGVMXV RM
SVI UIVMXS OVHHLM-YLLP.  GSV NLFHV TZEV Z HFWWVM OVZK LFG LU GSV
DZGVI, ZMW HVVNVW GL JFREVI ZOO LEVI DRGS UIRTSG.  `LS, R YVT
BLFI KZIWLM!' XIRVW ZORXV SZHGROB, ZUIZRW GSZG HSV SZW SFIG GSV
KLLI ZMRNZO'H UVVORMTH.  `R JFRGV ULITLG BLF WRWM'G ORPV XZGH.'

  `MLG ORPV XZGH!' XIRVW GSV NLFHV, RM Z HSIROO, KZHHRLMZGV
ELRXV.  `DLFOW BLF ORPV XZGH RU BLF DVIV NV?'

  `DVOO, KVISZKH MLG,' HZRW ZORXV RM Z HLLGSRMT GLMV:  `WLM'G YV
ZMTIB ZYLFG RG.  ZMW BVG R DRHS R XLFOW HSLD BLF LFI XZG WRMZS:
R GSRMP BLF'W GZPV Z UZMXB GL XZGH RU BLF XLFOW LMOB HVV SVI.
HSV RH HFXS Z WVZI JFRVG GSRMT,' ZORXV DVMG LM, SZOU GL SVIHVOU,
ZH HSV HDZN OZAROB ZYLFG RM GSV KLLO, `ZMW HSV HRGH KFIIRMT HL
MRXVOB YB GSV URIV, ORXPRMT SVI KZDH ZMW DZHSRMT SVI UZXV--ZMW
HSV RH HFXS Z MRXV HLUG GSRMT GL MFIHV--ZMW HSV'H HFXS Z XZKRGZO
LMV ULI XZGXSRMT NRXV--LS, R YVT BLFI KZIWLM!' XIRVW ZORXV ZTZRM,
ULI GSRH GRNV GSV NLFHV DZH YIRHGORMT ZOO LEVI, ZMW HSV UVOG
XVIGZRM RG NFHG YV IVZOOB LUUVMWVW.  `DV DLM'G GZOP ZYLFG SVI ZMB
NLIV RU BLF'W IZGSVI MLG.'

  `DV RMWVVW!' XIRVW GSV NLFHV, DSL DZH GIVNYORMT WLDM GL GSV VMW
LU SRH GZRO.  `ZH RU R DLFOW GZOP LM HFXS Z HFYQVXG!  LFI UZNROB
