disappeared; so the King and the executioner ran wildly up and
down looking for it, while the rest of the party went back to the game.



                           CHAPTER IX

                     The Mock Turtle's Story


  `You can't think how glad I am to see you again, you dear old
thing!' said the Duchess, as she tucked her arm affectionately
into Alice's, and they walked off together.

  Alice was very glad to find her in such a pleasant temper, and
thought to herself that perhaps it was only the pepper that had
made her so savage when they met in the kitchen.

  `When I'M a Duchess,' she said to herself, (not in a very
hopeful tone though), `I won't have any pepper in my kitchen AT
ALL.  Soup does very well without--Maybe it's always pepper that
makes people hot-tempered,' she went on, very much pleased at
having found out a new kind of rule, `and vinegar that makes them
sour--and camomile that makes them bitter--and--and barley-sugar
and such things that make children sweet-tempered.  I only wish
people knew that:  then they wouldn't be so stingy about it, you
know--'

  She had quite forgotten the Duchess by this time, and was a
little startled when she heard her voice close to her ear.
`You're thinking about something, my dear, and that makes you
forget to talk.  I can't tell you just now what the moral of that
is, but I shall remember it in a bit.'

  `Perhaps it hasn't one,' Alice ventured to remark.

  `Tut, tut, child!' said the Duchess.  `Everything's got a
moral, if only you can find it.'  And she squeezed herself up
closer to Alice's side as she spoke.

  Alice did not much like keeping so close to her:  first,
because the Duchess was VERY ugly; and secondly, because she was
exactly the right height to rest her chin upon Alice's shoulder,
and it was an uncomfortably sharp chin.  However, she did not
like to be rude, so she bore it as well as she could.

  `The game's going on rather better now,' she said, by way of
keeping up the conversation a little.

  `'Tis so,' said the Duchess:  `and the moral of that is--"Oh,
'tis love, 'tis love, that makes the world go round!"'

  `Somebody said,' Alice whispered, `that it's done by everybody
minding their own business!'

  `Ah, well!  It means much the same thing,' said the Duchess,
digging her sharp little chin into Alice's shoulder as she added,
`and the moral of THAT is--"Take care of the sense, and the
sounds will take care of themselves."'

  `How fond she is of finding morals in things!' Alice thought to
herself.

  `I dare say you're wondering why I don't put my arm round your
waist,' the Duchess said after a pause:  `the reason is, that I'm
doubtful about the temper of your flamingo.  Shall I try the
experiment?'

  `HE might bite,' Alice cautiously replied, not feeling at all
anxious to have the experiment tried.

  `Very true,' said the Duchess:  `flamingoes and mustard both
bite.  And the moral of that is--"Birds of a feather flock
together."'

  `Only mustard isn't a bird,' Alice remarked.

  `Right, as usual,' said the Duchess:  `what a clear way you
have of putting things!'

  `It's a mineral, I THINK,' said Alice.

  `Of course it is,' said the Duchess, who seemed ready to agree
to everything that Alice said; `there's a large mustard-mine near
here.  And the moral of that is--"The more there is of mine, the
less there is of yours."'

  `Oh, I know!' exclaimed Alice, who had not attended to this
last remark, `it's a vegetable.  It doesn't look like one, but it
is.'

  `I quite agree with you,' said the Duchess; `and the moral of
that is--"Be what you would seem to be"--or if you'd like it put
more simply--"Never imagine yourself not to be otherwise than
what it might appear to others that what you were or might have
been was not otherwise than what you had been would have appeared
to them to be otherwise."'

  `I think I should understand that better,' Alice said very
politely, `if I had it written down:  but I can't quite follow it
as you say it.'

  `That's nothing to what I could say if I chose,' the Duchess
replied, in a pleased tone.

  `No, I didn't,' said Alice:  `I don't think it's at all a pity.
I said "What for?"'

  `She boxed the Queen's ears--' the Rabbit began.  Alice gave a
little scream of laughter.  `Oh, hush!' the Rabbit whispered in a
frightened tone.  `The Queen will hear you!  You see, she came
rather late, and the Queen said--'

  `Get to your places!' shouted the Queen in a voice of thunder,
and people began running about in all directions, tumbling up
against each other; however, they got settled down in a minute or
two, and the game began.  Alice thought she had never seen such a
curious croquet-ground in her life; it was all ridges and
furrows; the balls were live hedgehogs, the mallets live
flamingoes, and the soldiers had to double themselves up and to
stand on their hands and feet, to make the arches.

  The chief difficulty Alice found at first was in managing her
flamingo:  she succeeded in getting its body tucked away,
comfortably enough, under her arm, with its legs hanging down,
but generally, just as she had got its neck nicely straightened
out, and was going to give the hedgehog a blow with its head, it
WOULD twist itself round and look up in her face, with such a
puzzled expression that she could not help bursting out laughing:
and when she had got its head down, and was going to begin again,
it was very provoking to find that the hedgehog had unrolled
itself, and was in the act of crawling away:  besides all this,
there was generally a ridge or furrow in the way wherever she
wanted to send the hedgehog to, and, as the doubled-up soldiers
were always getting up and walking off to other parts of the
ground, Alice soon came to the conclusion that it was a very
difficult game indeed.

  The players all played at once without waiting for turns,
quarrelling all the while, and fighting for the hedgehogs; and in
a very short time the Queen was in a furious passion, and went
stamping about, and shouting `Off with his head!' or `Off with
her head!' about once in a minute.

  Alice began to feel very uneasy:  to be sure, she had not as
yet had any dispute with the Queen, but she knew that it might
happen any minute, `and then,' thought she, `what would become of
me?  They're dreadfully fond of beheading people here; the great
wonder is, that there's any one left alive!'

  She was looking about for some way of escape, and wondering
whether she could get away without being seen, when she noticed a
curious appearance in the air:  it puzzled her very much at
first, but, after watching it a minute or two, she made it out to
be a grin, and she said to herself `It's the Cheshire Cat:  now I
shall have somebody to talk to.'

  `How are you getting on?' said the Cat, as soon as there was
mouth enough for it to speak with.

  Alice waited till the eyes appeared, and then nodded.  `It's no
use speaking to it,' she thought, `till its ears have come, or at
least one of them.'  In another minute the whole head appeared,
and then Alice put down her flamingo, and began an account of the
game, feeling very glad she had someone to listen to her.  The
Cat seemed to think that there was enough of it now in sight, and
no more of it appeared.

  `I don't think they play at all fairly,' Alice began, in raGSVI
Z XLNKOZRMRMT GLMV, `ZMW GSVB ZOO JFZIIVO HL WIVZWUFOOB LMV XZM'G
SVZI LMVHVOU HKVZP--ZMW GSVB WLM'G HVVN GL SZEV ZMB IFOVH RM
KZIGRXFOZI; ZG OVZHG, RU GSVIV ZIV, MLYLWB ZGGVMWH GL GSVN--ZMW
BLF'EV ML RWVZ SLD XLMUFHRMT RG RH ZOO GSV GSRMTH YVRMT ZOREV;
ULI RMHGZMXV, GSVIV'H GSV ZIXS R'EV TLG GL TL GSILFTS MVCG
DZOPRMT ZYLFG ZG GSV LGSVI VMW LU GSV TILFMW--ZMW R HSLFOW SZEV
XILJFVGVW GSV JFVVM'H SVWTVSLT QFHG MLD, LMOB RG IZM ZDZB DSVM RG
HZD NRMV XLNRMT!'

  `SLD WL BLF ORPV GSV JFVVM?' HZRW GSV XZG RM Z OLD ELRXV.

  `MLG ZG ZOO,' HZRW ZORXV:  `HSV'H HL VCGIVNVOB--'  QFHG GSVM
HSV MLGRXVW GSZG GSV JFVVM DZH XOLHV YVSRMW SVI, ORHGVMRMT:  HL
HSV DVMG LM, `--ORPVOB GL DRM, GSZG RG'H SZIWOB DLIGS DSROV
URMRHSRMT GSV TZNV.'

  GSV JFVVM HNROVW ZMW KZHHVW LM.

  `DSL ZIV BLF GZOPRMT GL?' HZRW GSV PRMT, TLRMT FK GL ZORXV, ZMW
OLLPRMT ZG GSV XZG'H SVZW DRGS TIVZG XFIRLHRGB.

  `RG'H Z UIRVMW LU NRMV--Z XSVHSRIV XZG,' HZRW ZORXV:  `ZOOLD NV
GL RMGILWFXV RG.'

  `R WLM'G ORPV GSV OLLP LU RG ZG ZOO,' HZRW GSV PRMT:  `SLDVEVI,
RG NZB PRHH NB SZMW RU RG ORPVH.'

  `R'W IZGSVI MLG,' GSV XZG IVNZIPVW.

  `WLM'G YV RNKVIGRMVMG,' HZRW GSV PRMT, `ZMW WLM'G OLLP ZG NV
ORPV GSZG!'  SV TLG YVSRMW ZORXV ZH SV HKLPV.

  `Z XZG NZB OLLP ZG Z PRMT,' HZRW ZORXV.  `R'EV IVZW GSZG RM
HLNV YLLP, YFG R WLM'G IVNVNYVI DSVIV.'

  `DVOO, RG NFHG YV IVNLEVW,' HZRW GSV PRMT EVIB WVXRWVWOB, ZMW
SV XZOOVW GSV JFVVM, DSL DZH KZHHRMT ZG GSV NLNVMG, `NB WVZI!  R
DRHS BLF DLFOW SZEV GSRH XZG IVNLEVW!'

  GSV JFVVM SZW LMOB LMV DZB LU HVGGORMT ZOO WRUURXFOGRVH, TIVZG
LI HNZOO.  `LUU DRGS SRH SVZW!' HSV HZRW, DRGSLFG VEVM OLLPRMT
ILFMW.

  `R'OO UVGXS GSV VCVXFGRLMVI NBHVOU,' HZRW GSV PRMT VZTVIOB, ZMW
SV SFIIRVW LUU.

  ZORXV GSLFTSG HSV NRTSG ZH DVOO TL YZXP, ZMW HVV SLD GSV TZNV
DZH TLRMT LM, ZH HSV SVZIW GSV JFVVM'H ELRXV RM GSV WRHGZMXV,
HXIVZNRMT DRGS KZHHRLM.  HSV SZW ZOIVZWB SVZIW SVI HVMGVMXV GSIVV
LU GSV KOZBVIH GL YV VCVXFGVW ULI SZERMT NRHHVW GSVRI GFIMH, ZMW
HSV WRW MLG ORPV GSV OLLP LU GSRMTH ZG ZOO, ZH GSV TZNV DZH RM
HFXS XLMUFHRLM GSZG HSV MVEVI PMVD DSVGSVI RG DZH SVI GFIM LI
MLG.  HL HSV DVMG RM HVZIXS LU SVI SVWTVSLT.

  GSV SVWTVSLT DZH VMTZTVW RM Z URTSG DRGS ZMLGSVI SVWTVSLT,
DSRXS HVVNVW GL ZORXV ZM VCXVOOVMG LKKLIGFMRGB ULI XILJFVGRMT LMV
LU GSVN DRGS GSV LGSVI:  GSV LMOB WRUURXFOGB DZH, GSZG SVI
UOZNRMTL DZH TLMV ZXILHH GL GSV LGSVI HRWV LU GSV TZIWVM, DSVIV
ZORXV XLFOW HVV RG GIBRMT RM Z SVOKOVHH HLIG LU DZB GL UOB FK
RMGL Z GIVV.

  YB GSV GRNV HSV SZW XZFTSG GSV UOZNRMTL ZMW YILFTSG RG YZXP,
GSV URTSG DZH LEVI, ZMW YLGS GSV SVWTVSLTH DVIV LFG LU HRTSG:
`YFG RG WLVHM'G NZGGVI NFXS,' GSLFTSG ZORXV, `ZH ZOO GSV ZIXSVH
ZIV TLMV UILN GSRH HRWV LU GSV TILFMW.'  HL HSV GFXPVW RG ZDZB
FMWVI SVI ZIN, GSZG RG NRTSG MLG VHXZKV ZTZRM, ZMW DVMG YZXP ULI
Z ORGGOV NLIV XLMEVIHZGRLM DRGS SVI UIRVMW.

  DSVM HSV TLG YZXP GL GSV XSVHSRIV XZG, HSV DZH HFIKIRHVW GL
URMW JFRGV Z OZITV XILDW XLOOVXGVW ILFMW RG:  GSVIV DZH Z WRHKFGV
TLRMT LM YVGDVVM GSV VCVXFGRLMVI, GSV PRMT, ZMW GSV JFVVM, DSL
DVIV ZOO GZOPRMT ZG LMXV, DSROV ZOO GSV IVHG DVIV JFRGV HROVMG,
ZMW OLLPVW EVIB FMXLNULIGZYOV.

  GSV NLNVMG ZORXV ZKKVZIVW, HSV DZH ZKKVZOVW GL YB ZOO GSIVV GL
HVGGOV GSV JFVHGRLM, ZMW GSVB IVKVZGVW GSVRI ZITFNVMGH GL SVI,
GSLFTS, ZH GSVB ZOO HKLPV ZG LMXV, HSV ULFMW RG EVIB SZIW RMWVVW
GL NZPV LFG VCZXGOB DSZG GSVB HZRW.

  GSV VCVXFGRLMVI'H ZITFNVMG DZH, GSZG BLF XLFOWM'G XFG LUU Z
SVZW FMOVHH GSVIV DZH Z YLWB GL XFG RG LUU UILN:  GSZG SV SZW
MVEVI SZW GL WL HFXS Z GSRMT YVULIV, ZMW SV DZHM'G TLRMT GL YVTRM
ZG SRH GRNV LU ORUV.

  GSV PRMT'H ZITFNVMG DZH, GSZG ZMBGSRMT GSZG SZW Z SVZW XLFOW YV
YVSVZWVW, ZMW GSZG BLF DVIVM'G GL GZOP MLMHVMHV.

  GSV JFVVM'H ZITFNVMG DZH, GSZG RU HLNVGSRMT DZHM'G WLMV ZYLFG
RG RM OVHH GSZM ML GRNV HSV'W SZEV VEVIBYLWB VCVXFGVW, ZOO ILFMW.
(RG DZH GSRH OZHG IVNZIP GSZG SZW NZWV GSV DSLOV KZIGB OLLP HL
TIZEV ZMW ZMCRLFH.)

  ZORXV XLFOW GSRMP LU MLGSRMT VOHV GL HZB YFG `RG YVOLMTH GL GSV
WFXSVHH:  BLF'W YVGGVI ZHP SVI ZYLFG RG.'

  `HSV'H RM KIRHLM,' GSV JFVVM HZRW GL GSV VCVXFGRLMVI:  `UVGXS
SVI SVIV.'  ZMW GSV VCVXFGRLMVI DVMG LUU ORPV ZM ZIILD.

   GSV XZG'H SVZW YVTZM UZWRMT ZDZB GSV NLNVMG SV DZH TLMV, ZMW,
YB GSV GRNV SV SZW XLNV YZXP DRGS GSV WFGXSVHH, RG SZW VMGRIVOB
WRHZKKVZIVW; HL GSV PRMT ZMW GSV VCVXFGRLMVI IZM DROWOB FK ZMW
WLDM OLLPRMT ULI RG, DSROV GSV IVHG LU GSV KZIGB DVMG YZXP GL GSV TZNV.



                           XSZKGVI RC

                     GSV NLXP GFIGOV'H HGLIB


  `BLF XZM'G GSRMP SLD TOZW R ZN GL HVV BLF ZTZRM, BLF WVZI LOW
GSRMT!' HZRW GSV WFXSVHH, ZH HSV GFXPVW SVI ZIN ZUUVXGRLMZGVOB
RMGL ZORXV'H, ZMW GSVB DZOPVW LUU GLTVGSVI.

  ZORXV DZH EVIB TOZW GL URMW SVI RM HFXS Z KOVZHZMG GVNKVI, ZMW
GSLFTSG GL SVIHVOU GSZG KVISZKH RG DZH LMOB GSV KVKKVI GSZG SZW
NZWV SVI HL HZEZTV DSVM GSVB NVG RM GSV PRGXSVM.

  `DSVM R'N Z WFXSVHH,' HSV HZRW GL SVIHVOU, (MLG RM Z EVIB
