  `Pray don't trouble yourself to say it any longer than that,'
said Alice.

  `Oh, don't talk about trouble!' said the Duchess.  `I make you
a present of everything I've said as yet.'

  `A cheap sort of present!' thought Alice.  `I'm glad they don't
give birthday presents like that!'  But she did not venture to
say it out loud.

  `Thinking again?' the Duchess asked, with another dig of her
sharp little chin.

  `I've a right to think,' said Alice sharply, for she was
beginning to feel a little worried.

  `Just about as much right,' said the Duchess, `as pigs have to
fly; and the m--'

  But here, to Alice's great surprise, the Duchess's voice died
away, even in the middle of her favourite word `moral,' and the
arm that was linked into hers began to tremble.  Alice looked up,
and there stood the Queen in front of them, with her arms folded,
frowning like a thunderstorm.

  `A fine day, your Majesty!' the Duchess began in a low, weak
voice.

  `Now, I give you fair warning,' shouted the Queen, stamping on
the ground as she spoke; `either you or your head must be off,
and that in about half no time!  Take your choice!'

  The Duchess took her choice, and was gone in a moment.

  `Let's go on with the game,' the Queen said to Alice; and Alice
was too much frightened to say a word, but slowly followed her
back to the croquet-ground.

  The other guests had taken advantage of the Queen's absence,
and were resting in the shade:  however, the moment they saw her,
they hurried back to the game, the Queen merely remarking that a
moment's delay would cost them their lives.

  All the time they were playing the Queen never left off
quarrelling with the other players, and shouting `Off with his
head!' or `Off with her head!'  Those whom she sentenced were
taken into custody by the soldiers, who of course had to leave
off being arches to do this, so that by the end of half an hour
or so there were no arches left, and all the players, except the
King, the Queen, and Alice, were in custody and under sentence of
execution.

  Then the Queen left off, quite out of breath, and said to
Alice, `Have you seen the Mock Turtle yet?'

  `No,' said Alice.  `I don't even know what a Mock Turtle is.'

  `It's the thing Mock Turtle Soup is made from,' said the Queen.

  `I never saw one, or heard of one,' said Alice.

  `Come on, then,' said the Queen, `and he shall tell you his
history,'

  As they walked off together, Alice heard the King say in a low
voice, to the company generally, `You are all pardoned.'  `Come,
THAT'S a good thing!' she said to herself, for she had felt quite
unhappy at the number of executions the Queen had ordered.

  They very soon came upon a Gryphon, lying fast asleep in the
sun.  (IF you don't know what a Gryphon is, look at the picture.)
`Up, lazy thing!' said the Queen, `and take this young lady to
see the Mock Turtle, and to hear his history.  I must go back and
see after some executions I have ordered'; and she walked off,
leaving Alice alone with the Gryphon.  Alice did not quite like
the look of the creature, but on the whole she thought it would
be quite as safe to stay with it as to go after that savage
Queen:  so she waited.

  The Gryphon sat up and rubbed its eyes:  then it watched the
Queen till she was out of sight:  then it chuckled.  `What fun!'
said the Gryphon, half to itself, half to Alice.

  `What IS the fun?' said Alice.

  `Why, SHE,' said the Gryphon.  `It's all her fancy, that:  they
never executes nobody, you know.  Come on!'

  `Everybody says "come on!" here,' thought Alice, as she went
slowly after it:  `I never was so ordered about in all my life,
never!'

  They had not gone far before they saw the Mock Turtle in the
distance, sitting sad and lonely on a little ledge of rock, and,
as they came nearer, Alice could hear him sighing as if his heart
would break.  She pitied him deeply.  `What is his sorrow?' she
asked the Gryphon, and the Gryphon answered, very nearly in the
same words as before, `It's all his fancy, that:  he hasn't got
no sorrow, you know.  Come on!'

  So they went up to the Mock Turtle, who looked at them with
large eyes full of tears, but said nothing.

  `This here young lady,' said the Gryphon, `she wants for to
know your history, she do.'

  `I'll tell it her,' said the Mock Turtle in a deep, hollow
tone:  `sit down, both of you, and don't speak a word till I've
finished.'

  So they sat down, and nobody spoke for some minutes.  Alice
thought to herself, `I don't see how he can EVEN finish, if he
doesn't begin.'  But she waited patiently.

  `Once,' said the Mock Turtle at last, with a deep sigh, `I was
a real Turtle.'

  These words were followed by a very long silence, broken only
by an occasional exclamation of `Hjckrrh!' from the Gryphon, and
the constant heavy sobbing of the Mock Turtle.  Alice was very
nearly getting up and saying, `Thank you, sir, for your
interesting story,' but she could not help thinking there MUST be
more to come, so she sat still and said nothing.

  `When we were little,' the Mock Turtle went on at last, more
calmly, though still sobbing a little now and then, `we went to
school in the sea.  The master was an old Turtle--we used to call
him Tortoise--'

  `Why did you call him Tortoise, if he wasn't one?' Alice asked.

  `We called him Tortoise because he taught us,' said the Mock
Turtle angrily:  `really you are very dull!'

  `You ought to be ashamed of yourself for asking such a simple
question,' added the Gryphon; and then they both sat silent and
looked at poor Alice, who felt ready to sink into the earth.  At
last the Gryphon said to the Mock Turtle, `Drive on, old fellow!
Don't be all day about it!' and he went on in these words:

  `Yes, we went to school in the sea, though you mayn't believe
it--'

  `I never said I didn't!' interrupted Alice.

  `You did,' said the Mock Turtle.

  `Hold your tongue!' added the Gryphon, before Alice could speak
again.  The Mock Turtle went on.

  `We had the best of educations--in fact, we went to school
every day--'

  `I'VE been to a day-school, too,' said Alice; `you needn't be
so proud as all that.'

  `With extras?' asked the Mock Turtle a little anxiously.

  `Yes,' said Alice, `we learned French and music.'

  `And washing?' said the Mock Turtle.

  `Certainly not!' said Alice indignantly.

  `Ah! then yours wasn't a really good school,' said the Mock
Turtle in a tone of great relief.  `Now at OURS they had at the
end of the bill, "French, music, AND WASHING--extra."'

  `You couldn't have wanted it much,' said Alice; `living at the
bottom of the sea.'

  `I couldn't afford to learn it.' said the Mock Turtle with a
sigh.  `I only took the regular course.'

  `What was that?' inquired Alice.

  `Reeling and Writhing, of course, to begin with,' the Mock
Turtle replied; `and then the different branches of Arithmetic--
Ambition, Distraction, Uglification, and Derision.'

  `I never heard of "Uglification,"' Alice ventured to say.  `What
is it?'

  The Gryphon lifted up both its paws in surprise.  `What!  Never
heard of uglifying!' it exclaimed.  `You know what to beautify
is, I suppose?'

  `Yes,' said Alice doubtfully:  `it means--to--make--anything--
prettier.'

  `Well, then,' the Gryphon went on, `if you don't know what to
uglify is, you ARE a simpleton.'

  Alice did not feel encouraged to ask any more questions about
it, so she turned to the Mock Turtle, and said `What else had you
to learn?'

  `Well, there was Mystery,' the Mock Turtle replied, counting
off the subjects on his flappers, `--Mystery, ancient and modern,
with Seaography:  then Drawling--the Drawling-master was an old
conger-eel, that used to come once a week:  HE taught us
Drawling, Stretching, and Fainting in Coils.'

  `What was THAT like?' said Alice.

  `Well, I can't show it you myself,' the Mock Turtle said:  `I'm
too stiff.  And the Gryphon never learnt it.'

  `Hadn't time,' said the Gryphon:  `I went to the Classics
master, though.  He was an old crab, HE was.'

  `I never went to him,' the Mock Turtle said with a sigh:  `he
taught Laughing and Grief, they used to say.'

  `So he did, so he did,' said the Gryphon, sighing in his turn;
and both creatures hid their faces in their paws.

  `And how many hours a day did you do lessons?' said Alice, in a
hurry to change the subject.

  `Ten hours the first day,' said the Mock Turtle: `nine the
next, and so on.'

  `What a curious plan!' exclaimed Alice.

  `That's the reason they're called lessons,' the Gryphon
remarked:  `because they lessen from day to day.'

  This was quite a new idea to Alice, and she thought it over a
little before she made her next remark.  `Then the eleventh day
must have been a holiday?'

  `Of course it was,' said the Mock Turtle.

  `And how did you manage on the twelfth?' Alice went on eagerly.

  `That's enough about lessons,' the Gryphon interrupted in a
very decided tone:  `tell her something about the games now.'



                            CHAPTER X

                      The Lobster Quadrille


  The Mock Turtle sighed deeply, and drew the back of one flapper
across his eyes.  He looked at Alice, and tried to speak, but for
a minute or two sobs choked his voice.  `Same as if he had a bone
in his throat,' said the Gryphon:  and it set to work shaking him
and punching him in the back.  At last the Mock Turtle recovered
his voice, and, with tears running down his cheeks, he went on
again:--

  `You may not have lived much under the sea--' (`I haven't,'
said Alice)--`and perhaps you were never even introduced to a lobster--'
(Alice began to say `I once tasted--' but checked herself hastily,
and said `No, never') `--so you can have no idea what a delightful
thing a Lobster Quadrille is!'

  `No, indeed,' said Alice.  `What sort of a dance is it?'

  `Why,' said the Gryphon, `you first form into a line along the
sea-shore--'

  `Two lines!' cried the Mock Turtle.  `Seals, turtles, salmon,
and so on; then, when you've cleared all the jelly-fish out of
the way--'

  `THAT generally takes some time,' interrupted the Gryphon.

  `--you advance twice--'

  `Each with a lobster as a partner!' cried the Gryphon.

  `Of course,' the Mock Turtle said:  `advance twice, set to
partners--'

  `--change lobsters, and retire in same order,' continued the
Gryphon.

  `Then, you know,' the Mock Turtle went on, `you throw the--'

  `The lobsters!' shouted the Gryphon, with a bound into the air.

  `--as far out to sea as you can--'

  `Swim after them!' screamed the Gryphon.

  `Turn a somersault in the sea!' cried the Mock Turtle,
capering wildly about.

  `Back to land again, and that's all the first figure,' said the
Mock Turtle, suddenly dropping his voice; and the two creatures,
who had been jumping about like mad things all this time, sat
down again very sadly and quietly, and looked at Alice.

  `It must be a very pretty dance,' said Alice timidly.

  `Would you like to see a little of it?' said the Mock Turtle.

  `Very much indeed,' said Alice.

  `Come, let's try the first figure!' said the Mock Turtle to the
Gryphon.  `We can do without lobsters, you know.  Which shall
sing?'

  `Oh, YOU sing,' said the Gryphon.  `I've forgotten the words.'

  So they began solemnly dancing round and round Alice, every now
and then treading on her toes when they passed too close, and
waving their forepaws to mark the time, while the Mock Turtle
sang this, very slowly and sadly:--


`"Will you walk a little faster?" said a whiting to a snail.
"There's a porpoise close behind us, and he's treading on my
 tail.
See how eagerly the lobsters and the turtles all advance!
They are waiting on the shingle--will you come and join the
dance?

Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, will you join the
dance?
Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, won't you join the
dance?


"You can really have no notion how delightful it will be
When they take us up and throw us, with the lobsters, out to
                                                      sea!"
But the snail replied "Too far, too far!" and gave a look
                                                       askance--
Said he thanked the whiting kindly, but he would not join the
   dance.
    Would not, could not, would not, could not, would not join
        the dance.
    Would not, could not, would not, could not, could not join
        the dance.

`"What matters it how far we go?" his scaly friend replied.
"There is another shore, you know, upon the other side.
The further off from England the nearer is to France--
Then turn not pale, beloved snail, but come and join the dance.

    Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, will you join the
         dance?
    Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, won't you join the
         dance?"'



  `Thank you, it's a very interesting dance to watch,' said
Alice, feeling very glad that it was over at last:  `and I do so
like that curious song about the whiting!'

  `Oh, as to the whiting,' said the Mock Turtle, `they--you've
seen them, of course?'

  `Yes,' said Alice, `I've often seen them at dinn--' she
checked herself hastily.

  `I don't know where Dinn may be,' said the Mock Turtle, `but
if you've seen them so often, of course you know what they're
like.'

  `I believe so,' Alice replied thoughtfully.  `They have their
tails in their mouths--and they're all over crumbs.'

  `You're wrong about the crumbs,' said the Mock Turtle:
`crumbs would all wash off in the sea.  But they HAVE their tails
in their mouths; and the reason is--' here the Mock Turtle
yawned and shut his eyes.--`Tell her about the reason and all
that,' he said to the Gryphon.

  `The reason is,' said the Gryphon, `that they WOULD go with
the lobsters to the dance.  So they got thrown out to sea.  So
they had to fall a long way.  So they got their tails fast in
their mouths.  So they couldn't get them out again.  That's all.'

  `Thank you,' said Alice, `it's very interesting.  I never knew
so much about a whiting before.'

  `I can tell you more than that, if you like,' said the
Gryphon.  `Do you know why it's called a whiting?'

  `I never thought about it,' said Alice.  `Why?'

  `IT DOES THE BOOTS AND SHOES.' the Gryphon replied very
solemnly.

  Alice was thoroughly puzzled.  `Does the boots and shoes!' she
repeated in a wondering tone.

  `Why, what are YOUR shoes done with?' said the Gryphon.  `I
mean, what makes them so shiny?'

  Alice looked down at them, and considered a little before she
gave her answer.  `They're done with blacking, I believe.'

  `Boots and shoes under the sea,' the Gryphon went on in a deep
voice, `are done with a whiting.  Now you know.'

  `And what are they made of?' Alice asked in a tone of great
curiosity.

  `Soles and eels, of course,' the Gryphon replied rather
impatiently:  `any shrimp could have told you that.'

  `If I'd been the whiting,' said Alice, whose thoughts were
still running on the song, `I'd have said to the porpoise, "Keep
back, please:  we don't want YOU with us!"'

  `They were obliged to have him with them,' the Mock Turtle
said:  `no wise fish would go anywhere without a porpoise.'

  `Wouldn't it really?' said Alice in a tone of great surprise.

  `Of course not,' said the Mock Turtle:  `why, if a fish came
to ME, and told me he was going a journey, I should say "With
what porpoise?"'

  `Don't you mean "purpose"?' said Alice.

  `I mean what I say,' the Mock Turtle replied in an offended
tone.  And the Gryphon added `Come, let's hear some of YOUR
adventures.'

  `I could tell you my adventures--beginning from this morning,'
said Alice a little timidly:  `but it's no use going back to
yesterday, because I was a different person then.'

  `Explain all that,' said the Mock Turtle.

  `No, no!  The adventures first,' said the Gryphon in an
impatient tone:  `explanations take such a dreadful time.'

  So Alice began telling them her adventures from the time when
she first saw the White Rabbit.  She was a little nervous about
it just at first, the two creatures got so close to her, one on
each side, and opened their eyes and mouths so VERY wide, but she
gained courage as she went on.  Her listeners were perfectly
quiet till she got to the part about her repeating `YOU ARE OLD,
FATHER WILLIAM,' to the Caterpillar, and the words all coming
different, and then the Mock Turtle drew a long breath, and said
`That's very curious.'

  `It's all about as curious as it can be,' said the Gryphon.

  `It all came different!' the Mock Turtle repeated
thoughtfully.  `I should like to hear her try and repeat
something now.  Tell her to begin.'  He looked at the Gryphon as
if he thought it had some kind of authority over Alice.

  `Stand up and repeat "'TIS THE VOICE OF THE SLUGGARD,"' said
the Gryphon.

  `How the creatures order one about, and make one repeat
lessons!' thought Alice; `I might as well be at school at once.'
However, she got up, and began to repeat it, but her head was so
full of the Lobster Quadrille, that she hardly knew what she was
saying, and the words came very queer indeed:--

    `'Tis the voice of the Lobster; I heard him declare,
    "You have baked me too brown, I must sugar my hair."
    As a duck with its eyelids, so he with his nose
    Trims his belt and his buttons, and turns out his toes.'

              [later editions continued as follows
    When the sands are all dry, he is gay as a lark,
    And will talk in contemptuous tones of the Shark,
    But, when the tide rises and sharks are around,
    His voice has a timid and tremulous sound.]

  `That's different from what I used to say when I was a child,'
said the Gryphon.

  `Well, I never heard it before,' said the Mock Turtle; `but it
sounds uncommon nonsense.'

  Alice said nothing; she had sat down with her face in her
hands, wondering if anything would EVER happen in a natural way
again.

  `I should like to have it explained,' said the Mock Turtle.

  `She can't explain it,' said the Gryphon hastily.  `Go on with
the next verse.'

  `But about his toes?' the Mock Turtle persisted.  `How COULD
he turn them out with his nose, you know?'

  `It's the first position in dancing.' Alice said; but was
dreadfully puzzled by the whole thing, and longed to change the
subject.

  `Go on with the next verse,' the Gryphon repeated impatiently:
`it begins "I passed by his garden."'

  Alice did not dare to disobey, though she felt sure it would
all come wrong, and she went on in a trembling voice:--

    `I passed by his garden, and marked, with one eye,
    How the Owl and the Panther were sharing a pie--'

        [later editions continued as follows
    The Panther took pie-crust, and gravy, and meat,
    While the Owl had the dish as its share of the treat.
    When the pie was all finished, the Owl, as a boon,
    Was kindly permitted to pocket the spoon:
    While the Panther received knife and fork with a growl,
    And concluded the banquet--]

  `What IS the use of repeating all that stuff,' the Mock Turtle
interrupted, `if you don't explain it as you go on?  It's by far
the most confusing thing I ever heard!'

  `Yes, I think you'd better leave off,' said the Gryphon:  and
Alice was only too glad to do so.

  `Shall we try another figure of the Lobster Quadrille?' the
Gryphon went on.  `Or would you like the Mock Turtle to sing you
a song?'

  `Oh, a song, please, if the Mock Turtle would be so kind,'
Alice replied, so eagerly that the Gryphon said, in a rather
offended tone, `Hm! No accounting for tastes!  Sing her "Turtle
Soup," will you, old fellow?'

  The Mock Turtle sighed deeply, and began, in a voice sometimes
choked with sobs, to sing this:--


    `Beautiful Soup, so rich and green,
    Waiting in a hot tureen!
    Who for such dainties would not stoop?
    Soup of the evening, beautiful Soup!
    Soup of the evening, beautiful Soup!
        Beau--ootiful Soo--oop!
        Beau--ootiful Soo--oop!
    Soo--oop of the e--e--evening,
        Beautiful, beautiful Soup!

    `Beautiful Soup!  Who cares for fish,
    Game, or any other dish?
    Who would not give all else for two p
    ennyworth only of beautiful Soup?
    Pennyworth only of beautiful Soup?
        Beau--ootiful Soo--oop!
        Beau--ootiful Soo--oop!
    Soo--oop of the e--e--evening,
        Beautiful, beauti--FUL SOUP!'

  `Chorus again!' cried the Gryphon, and the Mock Turtle had
just begun to repeat it, when a cry of `The trial's beginning!'
was heard in the distance.

  `Come on!' cried the Gryphon, and, taking Alice by the hand,
it hurried off, without waiting for the end of the song.

  `What trial is it?' Alice panted as she ran; but the Gryphon
only answered `Come on!' and ran the faster, while more and more
faintly came, carried on the breeze that followed them, the
melancholy words:--

    `Soo--oop of the e--e--evening,
        Beautiful, beautiful Soup!'



                           CHAPTER XI

                      Who Stole the Tarts?


  The King and Queen of Hearts were seated on their throne when
they arrived, with a great crowd assembled about them--all sorts
of little birds and beasts, as well as the whole pack of cards:
the Knave was standing before them, in chains, with a soldier on
each side to guard him; and near the King was the White Rabbit,
with a trumpet in one hand, and a scroll of parchment in the
other.  In the very middle of the court was a table, with a large
dish of tarts upon it:  they looked so good, that it made Alice
quite hungry to look at them--`I wish they'd get the trial done,'
she thought, `and hand round the refreshments!'  But there seemed
to be no chance of this, so she began looking at everything about
her, to pass away the time.

  Alice had never been in a court of justice before, but she had
read about them in books, and she was quite pleased to find that
she knew the name of nearly everything there.  `That's the
judge,' she said to herself, `because of his great wig.'

  The judge, by the way, was the King; and as he wore his crown
over the wig, (look at the frontispiece if you want to see how he
did it,) he did not look at all comfortable, and it was certainly
not becoming.

  `And that's the jury-box,' thought Alice, `and those twelve
creatures,' (she was obliged to say `creatures,' you see, because
some of them were animals, and some were birds,) `I suppose they
are the jurors.'  She said this last word two or three times over
to herself, being rather proud of it:  for she thought, and
rightly too, that very few little girls of her age knew the
meaning of it at all.  However, `jury-men' would have done just
as well.

  The twelve jurors were all writing very busily on slates.
`What are they doing?'  Alice whispered to the Gryphon.  `They
can't have anything to put down yet, before the trial's begun.'

  `They're putting down their names,' the Gryphon whispered in
reply, `for fear they should forget them before the end of the
trial.'

  `Stupid things!' Alice began in a loud, indignant voice, but
she stopped hastily, for the White Rabbit cried out, `Silence in
the court!' and the King put on his spectacles and looked
anxiously round, to make out who was talking.

  Alice could see, as well as if she were looking over their
shoulders, that all the jurors were writing down `stupid things!'
on their slates, and she could even make out that one of them
didn't know how to spell `stupid,' and that he had to ask his
neighbour to tell him.  `A nice muddle their slates'll be in
before the trial's over!' thought Alice.

  One of the jurors had a pencil that squeaked.  This of course,
Alice could not stand, and she went round the court and got
behind him, and very soon found an opportunity of taking it
away.  She did it so quickly that the poor little juror (it was
Bill, the Lizard) could not make out at all what had become of
it; so, after hunting all about for it, he was obliged to write
with one finger for the rest of the day; and this was of very
little use, as it left no mark on the slate.

  `Herald, read the accusation!' said the King.

  On this the White Rabbit blew three blasts on the trumpet, and
then unrolled the parchment scroll, and read as follows:--

    `The Queen of Hearts, she made some tarts,
          All on a summer day:
      The Knave of Hearts, he stole those tarts,
          And took them quite away!'

  `Consider your verdict,' the King said to the jury.

  `Not yet, not yet!' the Rabbit hastily interrupted.  `There's
a great deal to come before that!'

  `Call the first witness,' said the King; and the White Rabbit
blew three blasts on the trumpet, and called out, `First
witness!'

  The first witness was the Hatter.  He came in with a teacup in
one hand and a piece of bread-and-butter in the other.  `I beg
pardon, your Majesty,' he began, `for bringing these in:  but I
hadn't quite finished my tea when I was sent for.'

  `You ought to have finished,' said the King.  `When did you
begin?'

  The Hatter looked at the March Hare, who had followed him into
the court, arm-in-arm with the Dormouse.  `Fourteenth of March, I
think it was,' he said.

  `Fifteenth,' said the March Hare.

  `Sixteenth,' added the Dormouse.

  `Write that down,' the King said to the jury, and the jury
eagerly wrote down all three dates on their slates, and then
added them up, and reduced the answer to shillings and pence.

  `Take off your hat,' the King said to the Hatter.

  `It isn't mine,' said the Hatter.

  `Stolen!' the King exclaimed, turning to the jury, who
instantly made a memorandum of the fact.

  `I keep them to sell,' the Hatter added as an explanation;
`I've none of my own.  I'm a hatter.'

  Here the Queen put on her spectacles, and began staring at the
Hatter, who turned pale and fidgeted.

  `Give your evidence,' said the King; `and don't be nervous, or
I'll have you executed on the spot.'

  This did not seem to encourage the witness at all:  he kept
shifting from one foot to the other, looking uneasily at the
Queen, and in his confusion he bit a large piece out of his
teacup instead of the bread-and-butter.

  Just at this moment Alice felt a very curious sensation, which
puzzled her a good deal until she made out what it was:  she was
beginning to grow larger again, and she thought at first she
would get up and leave the court; but on second thoughts she
decided to remain where she was as long as there was room for
her.

  `I wish you wouldn't squeeze so.' said the Dormouse, who was
sitting next to her.  `I can hardly breathe.'

  `I can't help it,' said Alice very meekly:  `I'm growing.'

  `You've no right to grow here,' said the Dormouse.

  `Don't talk nonsense,' said Alice more boldly:  `you know
you're growing too.'

  `Yes, but I grow at a reasonable pace,' said the Dormouse:
`not in that ridiculous fashion.'  And he got up very sulkily
and crossed over to the other side of the court.

  All this time the Queen had never left off staring at the
Hatter, and, just as the Dormouse crossed the court, she said to
one of the officers of the court, `Bring me the list of the
singers in the last concert!' on which the wretched Hatter
trembled so, that he shook both his shoes off.

  `Give your evidence,' the King repeated angrily, `or I'll have
you executed, whether you're nervous or not.'

  `I'm a poor man, your Majesty,' the Hatter began, in a
trembling voice, `--and I hadn't begun my tea--not above a week
or so--and what with the bread-and-butter getting so thin--and
the twinkling of the tea--'

  `The twinkling of the what?' said the King.

  `It began with the tea,' the Hatter replied.

  `Of course twinkling begins with a T!' said the King sharply.
`Do you take me for a dunce?  Go on!'

  `I'm a poor man,' the Hatter went on, `and most things
twinkled after that--only the March Hare said--'

  `I didn't!' the March Hare interrupted in a great hurry.

  `You did!' said the Hatter.

  `I deny it!' said the March Hare.

  `He denies it,' said the King:  `leave out that part.'

  `Well, at any rate, the Dormouse said--' the Hatter went on,
looking anxiously round to see if he would deny it too:  but the
Dormouse denied nothing, being fast asleep.

  `After that,' continued the Hatter, `I cut some more bread-
and-butter--'

  `But what did the Dormouse say?' one of the jury asked.

  `That I can't remember,' said the Hatter.

  `You MUST remember,' remarked the King, `or I'll have you
executed.'

  The miserable Hatter dropped his teacup and bread-and-butter,
and went down on one knee.  `I'm a poor man, your Majesty,' he
began.

  `You're a very poor speaker,' said the King.

  Here one of the guinea-pigs cheered, and was immediately
suppressed by the officers of the court.  (As that is rather a
hard word, I will just explain to you how it was done.  They had
a large canvas bag, which tied up at the mouth with strings:
into this they slipped the guinea-pig, head first, and then sat
upon it.)

  `I'm glad I've seen that done,' thought Alice.  `I've so often
read in the newspapers, at the end of trials, "There was some
attempts at applause, which was immediately suppressed by the
officers of the court," and I never understood what it meant
till now.'

  `If that's all you know about it, you may stand down,'
continued the King.

  `I can't go no lower,' said the Hatter:  `I'm on the floor, as
it is.'

  `Then you may SIT down,' the King replied.

  Here the other guinea-pig cheered, and was suppressed.

  `Come, that finished the guinea-pigs!' thought Alice.  `Now we
shall get on better.'

  `I'd rather finish my tea,' said the Hatter, with an anxious
look at the Queen, who was reading the list of singers.

  `You may go,' said the King, and the Hatter hurriedly left the
court, without even waiting to put his shoes on.

  `--and just take his head off outside,' the Queen added to one
of the officers:  but the Hatter was out of sight before the
officer could get to the door.

  `Call the next witness!' said the King.

  The next witness was the Duchess's cook.  She carried the
pepper-box in her hand, and Alice guessed who it was, even before
she got into the court, by the way the people near the door began
sneezing all at once.

  `Give your evidence,' said the King.

  `Shan't,' said the cook.

  The King looked anxiously at the White Rabbit, who said in a
low voice, `Your Majesty must cross-examine THIS witness.'

  `Well, if I must, I must,' the King said, with a melancholy
air, and, after folding his arms and frowning at the cook till
his eyes were nearly out of sight, he said in a deep voice, `What
are tarts made of?'

  `Pepper, mostly,' said the cook.

  `Treacle,' said a sleepy voice behind her.

  `Collar that Dormouse,' the Queen shrieked out.  `Behead that
Dormouse!  Turn that Dormouse out of court!  Suppress him!  Pinch
him!  Off with his whiskers!'

  For some minutes the whole court was in confusion, getting the
Dormouse turned out, and, by the time they had settled down
again, the cook had disappeared.

  `Never mind!' said the King, with an air of great relief.
`Call the next witness.'  And he added in an undertone to the
Queen, `Really, my dear, YOU must cross-examine the next witness.
It quite makes my forehead ache!'

  Alice watched the White Rabbit as he fumbled over the list,
feeling very curious to see what the next witness would be like,
`--for they haven't got much evidence YET,' she said to herself.
Imagine her surprise, when the White Rabbit read out, at the top
of his shrill little voice, the name `Alice!'



                           CHAPTER XII

                        Alice's Evidence


  `Here!' cried Alice, quite forgetting in the flurry of the
moment how large she had grown in the last few minutes, and she
jumped up in such a hurry that she tipped over the jury-box with
the edge of her skirt, upsetting all the jurymen on to the heads
of the crowd below, and there they lay sprawling about, reminding
her very much of a globe of goldfish she had accidentally upset
the week before.

  `Oh, I BEG your pardon!' she exclaimed in a tone of great
dismay, and began picking them up again as quickly as she could,
for the accident of the goldfish kept running in her head, and
she had a vague sort of idea that they must be collected at once
and put back into the jury-box, or they would die.

  `The trial cannot proceed,' said the King in a very grave
voice, `until all the jurymen are back in their proper places--
ALL,' he repeated with great emphasis, looking hard at Alice as
he said do.

  Alice looked at the jury-box, and saw that, in her haste, she
had put the Lizard in head downwards, and the poor little thing
was waving its tail about in a melancholy way, being quite unable
ALL.  Soup does very well without--Maybe it's always pepper that
makes people hot-tempered,' she went on, very much pleased at
having found out a new kind of rule, `and vinegar that makes them
sour--and camomile that makes them bitter--and--and barley-sugar
and such things that make children sweet-tempered.  I only wish
people knew that:  then they wouldn't be so stingy about it, you
know--'

  She had quite forgotten the Duchess by this time, and was a
little startled when she heard her voice close to her ear.
`You're thinking about something, my dear, and that makes you
forget to talk.  I can't tell you just now what the moral of that
is, but I shall remember it in a bit.'

  `Perhaps it hasn't one,' Alice ventured to remark.

  `Tut, tut, child!' said the Duchess.  `Everything's got a
moral, if only you can find it.'  And she squeezed herself up
closer to Alice's side as she spoke.

  Alice did not much like keeping so close to her:  first,
because the Duchess was VERY ugly; and secondly, because she was
exactly the right height to rest her chin upon Alice's shoulder,
and it was an uncomfortably sharp chin.  However, she did not
like to be rude, so she bore it as well as she could.

  `The game's going on rather better now,' she said, by way of
keeping up the conversation a little.

  `'Tis so,' said the Duchess:  `and the moral of that is--"Oh,
'tis love, 'tis love, that makes the world go round!"'

  `Somebody said,' Alice whispered, `that it's done by everybody
minding their own business!'

  `Ah, well!  It means much the same thing,' said the Duchess,
digging her sharp little chin into Alice's shoulder as she added,
`and the moral of THAT is--"Take care of the sense, and the
sounds will take care of themselves."'

  `How fond she is of finding morals in things!' Alice thought to
herself.

  `I dare say you're wondering why I don't put my arm round your
waist,' the Duchess said after a pause:  `the reason is, that I'm
doubtful about the temper of your flamingo.  Shall I try the
experiment?'

  `HE might bite,' Alice cautiously replied, not feeling at all
anxious to have the experiment tried.

  `Very true,' said the Duchess:  `flamingoes and mustard both
bite.  And the moral of that is--"Birds of a feather flock
together."'

  `Only mustard isn't a bird,' Alice remarked.

  `Right, as usual,' said the Duchess:  `what a clear way you
have of putting things!'

  `It's a mineral, I THINK,' said Alice.

  `Of course it is,' said the Duchess, who seemed ready to agree
to everything that Alice said; `there's a large mustard-mine near
here.  And the moral of that is--"The more there is of mine, the
less there is of yours."'

  `Oh, I know!' exclaimed Alice, who had not attended to this
last remark, `it's a vegetable.  It doesn't look like one, but it
is.'

  `I quite agree with you,' said the Duchess; `and the moral of
that is--"Be what you would seem to be"--or if you'd like it put
more simply--"Never imagine yourself not to be otherwise than
what it might appear to others that what you were or might have
been was not otherwise than what you had been would have appeared
to them to be otherwise."'

  `I think I should understand that better,' Alice said very
politely, `if I had it written down:  but I can't quite follow it
as you say it.'

  `That's nothing to what I could say if I chose,' the Duchess
replied, in a pleased tone.

  `Pray don't trouble yourself to say it any longer than that,'
said Alice.

  `Oh, don't talk about trouble!' said the Duchess.  `I make you
a present of everything I've said as yet.'

  `A cheap sort of present!' thought Alice.  `I'm glad they don't
give birthday presents like that!'  But she did not venture to
say it out loud.

  `Thinking again?' the Duchess asked, with another dig of her
sharp little chin.

  `I've a right to think,' said Alice sharply, for she was
beginning to feel a little worried.

  `Just about as much right,' said the Duchess, `as pigs have to
fly; and the m--'

  But here, to Alice's great surprise, the Duchess's voice died
away, even in the middle of her favourite word `moral,' and the
arm that was linked into hers began to tremble.  Alice looked up,
and there stood the Queen in front of them, with her arms folded,
frowning like a thunderstorm.

  `A fine day, your Majesty!' the Duchess began in a low, weak
voice.

  `Now, I give you fair warning,' shouted the Queen, stamping on
the ground as she spoke; `either you or your head must be off,
and that in about half no time!  Take your choice!'

  The Duchess took her choice, and was gone in a moment.

  `Let's go on with the game,' the Queen said to Alice; and Alice
was too much frightened to say a word, but slowly followed her
back to the croquet-ground.

  The other guests had taken advantage of the Queen's absence,
and were resting in the shade:  however, the moment they saw her,
they hurried back to the game, the Queen merely remarking that a
moment's delay would cost them their lives.

  All the time they were playing the Queen never left off
quarrelling with the other players, and shouting `Off with his
head!' or `Off with her head!'  Those whom she sentenced were
taken into custody by the soldiers, who of course had to leave
off being arches to do this, so that by the end of half an hour
or so there were no arches left, and all the players, except the
King, the Queen, and Alice, were in custody and under sentence of
execution.

  Then the Queen left off, quite out of breath, and said to
Alice, `Have you seen the Mock Turtle yet?'

  `No,' said Alice.  `I don't even know what a Mock Turtle is.'

  `It's the thing Mock Turtle Soup is made from,' said the Queen.

  `I never saw one, or heard of one,' said Alice.

  `XLNV LM, GSVM,' HZRW GSV JFVVM, `ZMW SV HSZOO GVOO BLF SRH
SRHGLIB,'

  ZH GSVB DZOPVW LUU GLTVGSVI, ZORXV SVZIW GSV PRMT HZB RM Z OLD
ELRXV, GL GSV XLNKZMB TVMVIZOOB, `BLF ZIV ZOO KZIWLMVW.'  `XLNV,
GSZG'H Z TLLW GSRMT!' HSV HZRW GL SVIHVOU, ULI HSV SZW UVOG JFRGV
FMSZKKB ZG GSV MFNYVI LU VCVXFGRLMH GSV JFVVM SZW LIWVIVW.

  GSVB EVIB HLLM XZNV FKLM Z TIBKSLM, OBRMT UZHG ZHOVVK RM GSV
HFM.  (RU BLF WLM'G PMLD DSZG Z TIBKSLM RH, OLLP ZG GSV KRXGFIV.)
`FK, OZAB GSRMT!' HZRW GSV JFVVM, `ZMW GZPV GSRH BLFMT OZWB GL
HVV GSV NLXP GFIGOV, ZMW GL SVZI SRH SRHGLIB.  R NFHG TL YZXP ZMW
HVV ZUGVI HLNV VCVXFGRLMH R SZEV LIWVIVW'; ZMW HSV DZOPVW LUU,
OVZERMT ZORXV ZOLMV DRGS GSV TIBKSLM.  ZORXV WRW MLG JFRGV ORPV
GSV OLLP LU GSV XIVZGFIV, YFG LM GSV DSLOV HSV GSLFTSG RG DLFOW
YV JFRGV ZH HZUV GL HGZB DRGS RG ZH GL TL ZUGVI GSZG HZEZTV
JFVVM:  HL HSV DZRGVW.

  GSV TIBKSLM HZG FK ZMW IFYYVW RGH VBVH:  GSVM RG DZGXSVW GSV
JFVVM GROO HSV DZH LFG LU HRTSG:  GSVM RG XSFXPOVW.  `DSZG UFM!'
HZRW GSV TIBKSLM, SZOU GL RGHVOU, SZOU GL ZORXV.

  `DSZG RH GSV UFM?' HZRW ZORXV.

  `DSB, HSV,' HZRW GSV TIBKSLM.  `RG'H ZOO SVI UZMXB, GSZG:  GSVB
MVEVI VCVXFGVH MLYLWB, BLF PMLD.  XLNV LM!'

  `VEVIBYLWB HZBH "XLNV LM!" SVIV,' GSLFTSG ZORXV, ZH HSV DVMG
HOLDOB ZUGVI RG:  `R MVEVI DZH HL LIWVIVW ZYLFG RM ZOO NB ORUV,
MVEVI!'

  GSVB SZW MLG TLMV UZI YVULIV GSVB HZD GSV NLXP GFIGOV RM GSV
WRHGZMXV, HRGGRMT HZW ZMW OLMVOB LM Z ORGGOV OVWTV LU ILXP, ZMW,
ZH GSVB XZNV MVZIVI, ZORXV XLFOW SVZI SRN HRTSRMT ZH RU SRH SVZIG
DLFOW YIVZP.  HSV KRGRVW SRN WVVKOB.  `DSZG RH SRH HLIILD?' HSV
ZHPVW GSV TIBKSLM, ZMW GSV TIBKSLM ZMHDVIVW, EVIB MVZIOB RM GSV
HZNV DLIWH ZH YVULIV, `RG'H ZOO SRH UZMXB, GSZG:  SV SZHM'G TLG
ML HLIILD, BLF PMLD.  XLNV LM!'

  HL GSVB DVMG FK GL GSV NLXP GFIGOV, DSL OLLPVW ZG GSVN DRGS
OZITV VBVH UFOO LU GVZIH, YFG HZRW MLGSRMT.

  `GSRH SVIV BLFMT OZWB,' HZRW GSV TIBKSLM, `HSV DZMGH ULI GL
PMLD BLFI SRHGLIB, HSV WL.'

  `R'OO GVOO RG SVI,' HZRW GSV NLXP GFIGOV RM Z WVVK, SLOOLD
GLMV:  `HRG WLDM, YLGS LU BLF, ZMW WLM'G HKVZP Z DLIW GROO R'EV
URMRHSVW.'

  HL GSVB HZG WLDM, ZMW MLYLWB HKLPV ULI HLNV NRMFGVH.  ZORXV
GSLFTSG GL SVIHVOU, `R WLM'G HVV SLD SV XZM VEVM URMRHS, RU SV
WLVHM'G YVTRM.'  YFG HSV DZRGVW KZGRVMGOB.

  `LMXV,' HZRW GSV NLXP GFIGOV ZG OZHG, DRGS Z WVVK HRTS, `R DZH
Z IVZO GFIGOV.'

  GSVHV DLIWH DVIV ULOOLDVW YB Z EVIB OLMT HROVMXV, YILPVM LMOB
YB ZM LXXZHRLMZO VCXOZNZGRLM LU `SQXPIIS!' UILN GSV TIBKSLM, ZMW
GSV XLMHGZMG SVZEB HLYYRMT LU GSV NLXP GFIGOV.  ZORXV DZH EVIB
MVZIOB TVGGRMT FK ZMW HZBRMT, `GSZMP BLF, HRI, ULI BLFI
RMGVIVHGRMT HGLIB,' YFG HSV XLFOW MLG SVOK GSRMPRMT GSVIV NFHG YV
NLIV GL XLNV, HL HSV HZG HGROO ZMW HZRW MLGSRMT.

  `DSVM DV DVIV ORGGOV,' GSV NLXP GFIGOV DVMG LM ZG OZHG, NLIV
XZONOB, GSLFTS HGROO HLYYRMT Z ORGGOV MLD ZMW GSVM, `DV DVMG GL
HXSLLO RM GSV HVZ.  GSV NZHGVI DZH ZM LOW GFIGOV--DV FHVW GL XZOO
SRN GLIGLRHV--'

  `DSB WRW BLF XZOO SRN GLIGLRHV, RU SV DZHM'G LMV?' ZORXV ZHPVW.

  `DV XZOOVW SRN GLIGLRHV YVXZFHV SV GZFTSG FH,' HZRW GSV NLXP
GFIGOV ZMTIROB:  `IVZOOB BLF ZIV EVIB WFOO!'

  `BLF LFTSG GL YV ZHSZNVW LU BLFIHVOU ULI ZHPRMT HFXS Z HRNKOV
JFVHGRLM,' ZWWVW GSV TIBKSLM; ZMW GSVM GSVB YLGS HZG HROVMG ZMW
OLLPVW ZG KLLI ZORXV, DSL UVOG IVZWB GL HRMP RMGL GSV VZIGS.  ZG
OZHG GSV TIBKSLM HZRW GL GSV NLXP GFIGOV, `WIREV LM, LOW UVOOLD!
WLM'G YV ZOO WZB ZYLFG RG!' ZMW SV DVMG LM RM GSVHV DLIWH:

  `BVH, DV DVMG GL HXSLLO RM GSV HVZ, GSLFTS BLF NZBM'G YVORVEV
RG--'

  `R MVEVI HZRW R WRWM'G!' RMGVIIFKGVW ZORXV.

  `BLF WRW,' HZRW GSV NLXP GFIGOV.

  `SLOW BLFI GLMTFV!' ZWWVW GSV TIBKSLM, YVULIV ZORXV XLFOW HKVZP
ZTZRM.  GSV NLXP GFIGOV DVMG LM.

  `DV SZW GSV YVHG LU VWFXZGRLMH--RM UZXG, DV DVMG GL HXSLLO
VEVIB WZB--'

  `R'EV YVVM GL Z WZB-HXSLLO, GLL,' HZRW ZORXV; `BLF MVVWM'G YV
HL KILFW ZH ZOO GSZG.'

  `DRGS VCGIZH?' ZHPVW GSV NLXP GFIGOV Z ORGGOV ZMCRLFHOB.

  `BVH,' HZRW ZORXV, `DV OVZIMVW UIVMXS ZMW NFHRX.'

  `ZMW DZHSRMT?' HZRW GSV NLXP GFIGOV.

  `XVIGZRMOB MLG!' HZRW ZORXV RMWRTMZMGOB.

  `ZS! GSVM BLFIH DZHM'G Z IVZOOB TLLW HXSLLO,' HZRW GSV NLXP
GFIGOV RM Z GLMV LU TIVZG IVORVU.  `MLD ZG LFIH GSVB SZW ZG GSV
VMW LU GSV YROO, "UIVMXS, NFHRX, ZMW DZHSRMT--VCGIZ."'

  `BLF XLFOWM'G SZEV DZMGVW RG NFXS,' HZRW ZORXV; `ORERMT ZG GSV
YLGGLN LU GSV HVZ.'

  `R XLFOWM'G ZUULIW GL OVZIM RG.' HZRW GSV NLXP GFIGOV DRGS Z
HRTS.  `R LMOB GLLP GSV IVTFOZI XLFIHV.'

  `DSZG DZH GSZG?' RMJFRIVW ZORXV.

  `IVVORMT ZMW DIRGSRMT, LU XLFIHV, GL YVTRM DRGS,' GSV NLXP
GFIGOV IVKORVW; `ZMW GSVM GSV WRUUVIVMG YIZMXSVH LU ZIRGSNVGRX--
ZNYRGRLM, WRHGIZXGRLM, FTORURXZGRLM, ZMW WVIRHRLM.'

  `R MVEVI SVZIW LU "FTORURXZGRLM,"' ZORXV EVMGFIVW GL HZB.  `DSZG
RH RG?'

  GSV TIBKSLM ORUGVW FK YLGS RGH KZDH RM HFIKIRHV.  `DSZG!  MVEVI
SVZIW LU FTORUBRMT!' RG VCXOZRNVW.  `BLF PMLD DSZG GL YVZFGRUB
RH, R HFKKLHV?'

  `BVH,' HZRW ZORXV WLFYGUFOOB:  `RG NVZMH--GL--NZPV--ZMBGSRMT--
KIVGGRVI.'

  `DVOO, GSVM,' GSV TIBKSLM DVMG LM, `RU BLF WLM'G PMLD DSZG GL
FTORUB RH, BLF ZIV Z HRNKOVGLM.'

  ZORXV WRW MLG UVVO VMXLFIZTVW GL ZHP ZMB NLIV JFVHGRLMH ZYLFG
RG, HL HSV GFIMVW GL GSV NLXP GFIGOV, ZMW HZRW `DSZG VOHV SZW BLF
GL OVZIM?'

  `DVOO, GSVIV DZH NBHGVIB,' GSV NLXP GFIGOV IVKORVW, XLFMGRMT
LUU GSV HFYQVXGH LM SRH UOZKKVIH, `--NBHGVIB, ZMXRVMG ZMW NLWVIM,
DRGS HVZLTIZKSB:  GSVM WIZDORMT--GSV WIZDORMT-NZHGVI DZH ZM LOW
XLMTVI-VVO, GSZG FHVW GL XLNV LMXV Z DVVP:  SV GZFTSG FH
WIZDORMT, HGIVGXSRMT, ZMW UZRMGRMT RM XLROH.'

  `DSZG DZH GSZG ORPV?' HZRW ZORXV.

  `DVOO, R XZM'G HSLD RG BLF NBHVOU,' GSV NLXP GFIGOV HZRW:  `R'N
GLL HGRUU.  ZMW GSV TIBKSLM MVEVI OVZIMG RG.'

  `SZWM'G GRNV,' HZRW GSV TIBKSLM:  `R DVMG GL GSV XOZHHRXH
NZHGVI, GSLFTS.  SV DZH ZM LOW XIZY, SV DZH.'

  `R MVEVI DVMG GL SRN,' GSV NLXP GFIGOV HZRW DRGS Z HRTS:  `SV
GZFTSG OZFTSRMT ZMW TIRVU, GSVB FHVW GL HZB.'

  `HL SV WRW, HL SV WRW,' HZRW GSV TIBKSLM, HRTSRMT RM SRH GFIM;
ZMW YLGS XIVZGFIVH SRW GSVRI UZXVH RM GSVRI KZDH.

  `ZMW SLD NZMB SLFIH Z WZB WRW BLF WL OVHHLMH?' HZRW ZORXV, RM Z
SFIIB GL XSZMTV GSV HFYQVXG.

  `GVM SLFIH GSV URIHG WZB,' HZRW GSV NLXP GFIGOV: `MRMV GSV
MVCG, ZMW HL LM.'

  `DSZG Z XFIRLFH KOZM!' VCXOZRNVW ZORXV.

  `GSZG'H GSV IVZHLM GSVB'IV XZOOVW OVHHLMH,' GSV TIBKSLM
IVNZIPVW:  `YVXZFHV GSVB OVHHVM UILN WZB GL WZB.'

  GSRH DZH JFRGV Z MVD RWVZ GL ZORXV, ZMW HSV GSLFTSG RG LEVI Z
ORGGOV YVULIV HSV NZWV SVI MVCG IVNZIP.  `GSVM GSV VOVEVMGS WZB
NFHG SZEV YVVM Z SLORWZB?'

  `LU XLFIHV RG DZH,' HZRW GSV NLXP GFIGOV.

  `ZMW SLD WRW BLF NZMZTV LM GSV GDVOUGS?' ZORXV DVMG LM VZTVIOB.

  `GSZG'H VMLFTS ZYLFG OVHHLMH,' GSV TIBKSLM RMGVIIFKGVW RM Z
EVIB WVXRWVW GLMV:  `GVOO SVI HLNVGSRMT ZYLFG GSV TZNVH MLD.'



                            XSZKGVI C

                      GSV OLYHGVI JFZWIROOV


  GSV NLXP GFIGOV HRTSVW WVVKOB, ZMW WIVD GSV YZXP LU LMV UOZKKVI
ZXILHH SRH VBVH.  SV OLLPVW ZG ZORXV, ZMW GIRVW GL HKVZP, YFG ULI
Z NRMFGV LI GDL HLYH XSLPVW SRH ELRXV.  `HZNV ZH RU SV SZW Z YLMV
RM SRH GSILZG,' HZRW GSV TIBKSLM:  ZMW RG HVG GL DLIP HSZPRMT SRN
ZMW KFMXSRMT SRN RM GSV YZXP.  ZG OZHG GSV NLXP GFIGOV IVXLEVIVW
SRH ELRXV, ZMW, DRGS GVZIH IFMMRMT WLDM SRH XSVVPH, SV DVMG LM
ZTZRM:--

  `BLF NZB MLG SZEV OREVW NFXS FMWVI GSV HVZ--' (`R SZEVM'G,'
HZRW ZORXV)--`ZMW KVISZKH BLF DVIV MVEVI VEVM RMGILWFXVW GL Z OLYHGVI--'
(ZORXV YVTZM GL HZB `R LMXV GZHGVW--' YFG XSVXPVW SVIHVOU SZHGROB,
ZMW HZRW `ML, MVEVI') `--HL BLF XZM SZEV ML RWVZ DSZG Z WVORTSGUFO
GSRMT Z OLYHGVI JFZWIROOV RH!'

  `ML, RMWVVW,' HZRW ZORXV.  `DSZG HLIG LU Z WZMXV RH RG?'

  `DSB,' HZRW GSV TIBKSLM, `BLF URIHG ULIN RMGL Z ORMV ZOLMT GSV
HVZ-HSLIV--'

  `GDL ORMVH!' XIRVW GSV NLXP GFIGOV.  `HVZOH, GFIGOVH, HZONLM,
ZMW HL LM; GSVM, DSVM BLF'EV XOVZIVW ZOO GSV QVOOB-URHS LFG LU
GSV DZB--'

  `GSZG TVMVIZOOB GZPVH HLNV GRNV,' RMGVIIFKGVW GSV TIBKSLM.

  `--BLF ZWEZMXV GDRXV--'

  `VZXS DRGS Z OLYHGVI ZH Z KZIGMVI!' XIRVW GSV TIBKSLM.

  `LU XLFIHV,' GSV NLXP GFIGOV HZRW:  `ZWEZMXV GDRXV, HVG GL
KZIGMVIH--'

  `--XSZMTV OLYHGVIH, ZMW IVGRIV RM HZNV LIWVI,' XLMGRMFVW GSV
TIBKSLM.

  `GSVM, BLF PMLD,' GSV NLXP GFIGOV DVMG LM, `BLF GSILD GSV--'

  `GSV OLYHGVIH!' HSLFGVW GSV TIBKSLM, DRGS Z YLFMW RMGL GSV ZRI.

  `--ZH UZI LFG GL HVZ ZH BLF XZM--'

  `HDRN ZUGVI GSVN!' HXIVZNVW GSV TIBKSLM.

  `GFIM Z HLNVIHZFOG RM GSV HVZ!' XIRVW GSV NLXP GFIGOV,
XZKVIRMT DROWOB ZYLFG.

  `YZXP GL OZMW ZTZRM, ZMW GSZG'H ZOO GSV URIHG URTFIV,' HZRW GSV
NLXP GFIGOV, HFWWVMOB WILKKRMT SRH ELRXV; ZMW GSV GDL XIVZGFIVH,
DSL SZW YVVM QFNKRMT ZYLFG ORPV NZW GSRMTH ZOO GSRH GRNV, HZG
WLDM ZTZRM EVIB HZWOB ZMW JFRVGOB, ZMW OLLPVW ZG ZORXV.

  `RG NFHG YV Z EVIB KIVGGB WZMXV,' HZRW ZORXV GRNRWOB.

  `DLFOW BLF ORPV GL HVV Z ORGGOV LU RG?' HZRW GSV NLXP GFIGOV.

  `EVIB NFXS RMWVVW,' HZRW ZORXV.

  `XLNV, OVG'H GIB GSV URIHG URTFIV!' HZRW GSV NLXP GFIGOV GL GSV
TIBKSLM.  `DV XZM WL DRGSLFG OLYHGVIH, BLF PMLD.  DSRXS HSZOO
HRMT?'

  `LS, BLF HRMT,' HZRW GSV TIBKSLM.  `R'EV ULITLGGVM GSV DLIWH.'

  HL GSVB YVTZM HLOVNMOB WZMXRMT ILFMW ZMW ILFMW ZORXV, VEVIB MLD
ZMW GSVM GIVZWRMT LM SVI GLVH DSVM GSVB KZHHVW GLL XOLHV, ZMW
DZERMT GSVRI ULIVKZDH GL NZIP GSV GRNV, DSROV GSV NLXP GFIGOV
HZMT GSRH, EVIB HOLDOB ZMW HZWOB:--


`"DROO BLF DZOP Z ORGGOV UZHGVI?" HZRW Z DSRGRMT GL Z HMZRO.
"GSVIV'H Z KLIKLRHV XOLHV YVSRMW FH, ZMW SV'H GIVZWRMT LM NB
 GZRO.
HVV SLD VZTVIOB GSV OLYHGVIH ZMW GSV GFIGOVH ZOO ZWEZMXV!
GSVB ZIV DZRGRMT LM GSV HSRMTOV--DROO BLF XLNV ZMW QLRM GSV
WZMXV?

DROO BLF, DLM'G BLF, DROO BLF, DLM'G BLF, DROO BLF QLRM GSV
WZMXV?
DROO BLF, DLM'G BLF, DROO BLF, DLM'G BLF, DLM'G BLF QLRM GSV
WZMXV?


"BLF XZM IVZOOB SZEV ML MLGRLM SLD WVORTSGUFO RG DROO YV
DSVM GSVB GZPV FH FK ZMW GSILD FH, DRGS GSV OLYHGVIH, LFG GL
                                                      HVZ!"
YFG GSV HMZRO IVKORVW "GLL UZI, GLL UZI!" ZMW TZEV Z OLLP
                                                       ZHPZMXV--
HZRW SV GSZMPVW GSV DSRGRMT PRMWOB, YFG SV DLFOW MLG QLRM GSV
   WZMXV.
    DLFOW MLG, XLFOW MLG, DLFOW MLG, XLFOW MLG, DLFOW MLG QLRM
        GSV WZMXV.
    DLFOW MLG, XLFOW MLG, DLFOW MLG, XLFOW MLG, XLFOW MLG QLRM
        GSV WZMXV.

`"DSZG NZGGVIH RG SLD UZI DV TL?" SRH HXZOB UIRVMW IVKORVW.
"GSVIV RH ZMLGSVI HSLIV, BLF PMLD, FKLM GSV LGSVI HRWV.
GSV UFIGSVI LUU UILN VMTOZMW GSV MVZIVI RH GL UIZMXV--
GSVM GFIM MLG KZOV, YVOLEVW HMZRO, YFG XLNV ZMW QLRM GSV WZMXV.

    DROO BLF, DLM'G BLF, DROO BLF, DLM'G BLF, DROO BLF QLRM GSV
         WZMXV?
    DROO BLF, DLM'G BLF, DROO BLF, DLM'G BLF, DLM'G BLF QLRM GSV
         WZMXV?"'



  `GSZMP BLF, RG'H Z EVIB RMGVIVHGRMT WZMXV GL DZGXS,' HZRW
ZORXV, UVVORMT EVIB TOZW GSZG RG DZH LEVI ZG OZHG:  `ZMW R WL HL
ORPV GSZG XFIRLFH HLMT ZYLFG GSV DSRGRMT!'

  `LS, ZH GL GSV DSRGRMT,' HZRW GSV NLXP GFIGOV, `GSVB--BLF'EV
HVVM GSVN, LU XLFIHV?'

  `BVH,' HZRW ZORXV, `R'EV LUGVM HVVM GSVN ZG WRMM--' HSV
XSVXPVW SVIHVOU SZHGROB.

  `R WLM'G PMLD DSVIV WRMM NZB YV,' HZRW GSV NLXP GFIGOV, `YFG
RU BLF'EV HVVM GSVN HL LUGVM, LU XLFIHV BLF PMLD DSZG GSVB'IV
ORPV.'

  `R YVORVEV HL,' ZORXV IVKORVW GSLFTSGUFOOB.  `GSVB SZEV GSVRI
GZROH RM GSVRI NLFGSH--ZMW GSVB'IV ZOO LEVI XIFNYH.'

  `BLF'IV DILMT ZYLFG GSV XIFNYH,' HZRW GSV NLXP GFIGOV:
`XIFNYH DLFOW ZOO DZHS LUU RM GSV HVZ.  YFG GSVB SZEV GSVRI GZROH
RM GSVRI NLFGSH; ZMW GSV IVZHLM RH--' SVIV GSV NLXP GFIGOV
BZDMVW ZMW HSFG SRH VBVH.--`GVOO SVI ZYLFG GSV IVZHLM ZMW ZOO
GSZG,' SV HZRW GL GSV TIBKSLM.

  `GSV IVZHLM RH,' HZRW GSV TIBKSLM, `GSZG GSVB DLFOW TL DRGS
GSV OLYHGVIH GL GSV WZMXV.  HL GSVB TLG GSILDM LFG GL HVZ.  HL
GSVB SZW GL UZOO Z OLMT DZB.  HL GSVB TLG GSVRI GZROH UZHG RM
GSVRI NLFGSH.  HL GSVB XLFOWM'G TVG GSVN LFG ZTZRM.  GSZG'H ZOO.'

  `GSZMP BLF,' HZRW ZORXV, `RG'H EVIB RMGVIVHGRMT.  R MVEVI PMVD
HL NFXS ZYLFG Z DSRGRMT YVULIV.'

  `R XZM GVOO BLF NLIV GSZM GSZG, RU BLF ORPV,' HZRW GSV
TIBKSLM.  `WL BLF PMLD DSB RG'H XZOOVW Z DSRGRMT?'

  `R MVEVI GSLFTSG ZYLFG RG,' HZRW ZORXV.  `DSB?'

  `RG WLVH GSV YLLGH ZMW HSLVH.' GSV TIBKSLM IVKORVW EVIB
HLOVNMOB.

  ZORXV DZH GSLILFTSOB KFAAOVW.  `WLVH GSV YLLGH ZMW HSLVH!' HSV
IVKVZGVW RM Z DLMWVIRMT GLMV.

  `DSB, DSZG ZIV BLFI HSLVH WLMV DRGS?' HZRW GSV TIBKSLM.  `R
NVZM, DSZG NZPVH GSVN HL HSRMB?'

  ZORXV OLLPVW WLDM ZG GSVN, ZMW XLMHRWVIVW Z ORGGOV YVULIV HSV
TZEV SVI ZMHDVI.  `GSVB'IV WLMV DRGS YOZXPRMT, R YVORVEV.'

  `YLLGH ZMW HSLVH FMWVI GSV HVZ,' GSV TIBKSLM DVMG LM RM Z WVVK
ELRXV, `ZIV WLMV DRGS Z DSRGRMT.  MLD BLF PMLD.'

  `ZMW DSZG ZIV GSVB NZWV LU?' ZORXV ZHPVW RM Z GLMV LU TIVZG
XFIRLHRGB.

  `HLOVH ZMW VVOH, LU XLFIHV,' GSV TIBKSLM IVKORVW IZGSVI
RNKZGRVMGOB:  `ZMB HSIRNK XLFOW SZEV GLOW BLF GSZG.'

  `RU R'W YVVM GSV DSRGRMT,' HZRW ZORXV, DSLHV GSLFTSGH DVIV
HGROO IFMMRMT LM GSV HLMT, `R'W SZEV HZRW GL GSV KLIKLRHV, "PVVK
YZXP, KOVZHV:  DV WLM'G DZMG BLF DRGS FH!"'

  `GSVB DVIV LYORTVW GL SZEV SRN DRGS GSVN,' GSV NLXP GFIGOV
HZRW:  `ML DRHV URHS DLFOW TL ZMBDSVIV DRGSLFG Z KLIKLRHV.'
