literacy among the sites.  AM is situated in forty-four locations, of
which six are public libraries and sixteen are schools.  Represented
among the schools are elementary, junior high, and high schools.
District offices also are involved in the evaluation, which will
conclude in summer 1993.

VECCIA focused the remainder of her talk on the six public libraries, one
of which doubles as a state library.  They represent a range of
geographic areas and a range of demographic characteristics.  For
example, three are located in urban settings, two in rural settings, and
one in a suburban setting.  A range of technical expertise is to be found
among these facilities as well.  For example, one is an "Apple library of
the future," while two others are rural one-room libraries--in one, AM
sits at the front desk next to a tractor manual.

All public libraries have been extremely enthusiastic, supportive, and
appreciative of the work that AM has been doing.  VECCIA characterized
various users:  Most users in public libraries describe themselves as
general readers; of the students who use AM in the public libraries,
those in fourth grade and above seem most interested.  Public libraries
in rural sites tend to attract retired people, who have been highly
receptive to AM.  Users tend to fall into two additional categories:
people interested in the content and historical connotations of these
KIRNZIB IVHLFIXVH, ZMW GSLHV UZHXRMZGVW YB GSV GVXSMLOLTB.  GSV ULINZG
IVXVRERMT GSV NLHG XLNNVMGH SZH YVVM NLGRLM KRXGFIVH.  GSV ZWFOG FHVIH RM
KFYORX ORYIZIRVH ZIV NLIV XLNULIGZYOV DRGS RYN XLNKFGVIH, DSVIVZH BLFMT
KVLKOV HVVN XLNULIGZYOV DRGS VRGSVI RYN LI NZXRMGLHS, ZOGSLFTS NLHG LU
GSVN HVVN GL XLNV UILN Z NZXRMGLHS YZXPTILFMW.  GSRH HZNV GVMWVMXB RH
ULFMW RM GSV HXSLLOH.

DSZG PRMWH LU GSRMTH WL FHVIH WL DRGS ZN?  RM Z KFYORX ORYIZIB GSVIV ZIV
GDL NZRM TLZOH LI DZBH GSZG ZN RH YVRMT FHVW:  ZH ZM RMWRERWFZO OVZIMRMT
GLLO, ZMW ZH Z OVRHFIV ZXGRERGB.  ZWFOG OVZIMRMT DZH LMV ZIVZ GSZG EVXXRZ
