described a patron of a rural public library who comes in every day on
his lunch hour and literally reads AM, methodically going through the
collection image by image.  At the end of his hour he makes an electronic
bookmark, puts it in his pocket, and returns to work.  The next day he
comes in and resumes where he left off.  Interestingly, this man had
never been in the library before he used AM.  In another small, rural
library, the coordinator reports that AM is a popular activity for some
of the older, retired people in the community, who ordinarily would not
use "those things,"--computers.  Another example of adult learning in
public libraries is book groups, one of which, in particular, is using AM
as part of its reading on industrialization, integration, and urbanization
in the early 1900s.

One library reports that a family is using AM to help educate their
children.  In another instance, individuals from a local museum came in
to use AM to prepare an exhibit on toys of the past.  These two examples
emphasize the mission of the public library as a cultural institution,
reaching out to people who do not have the same resources available to
those who live in a metropolitan area or have access to a major library.
One rural library reports that junior high school students in large
numbers came in one afternoon to use AM for entertainment.  A number of
public libraries reported great interest amonT KLHGXZIW XLOOVXGLIH RM GSV
WVGILRG XLOOVXGRLM, DSRXS DZH VHHVMGRZOOB Z XLOOVXGRLM LU RNZTVH FHVW LM
KLHGXZIWH ZILFMW GSV GFIM LU GSV XVMGFIB.  GIZRM YFUUH ZIV HRNROZIOB
RMGVIVHGVW YVXZFHV GSZG DZH Z GRNV LU TIVZG RMGVIVHG RM IZROILZWRMT.
KVLKOV, RG DZH ULFMW, IVOZGV GL GSRMTH GSZG GSVB PMLD LU URIHGSZMW.  ULI
VCZNKOV, RM YLGS IFIZO KFYORX ORYIZIRVH DSVIV ZN DZH NZWV ZEZROZYOV,
LYHVIEVIH IVKLIGVW GSZG GSV LOWVI KVLKOV DRGS KVIHLMZO IVNVNYIZMXVH LU
GSV GFIM LU GSV XVMGFIB DVIV TIZERGZGRMT GL GSV WVGILRG XLOOVXGRLM.
GSVHV VCZNKOVH HVIEVW GL FMWVIHXLIV NRXSVOHLM'H LYHVIEZGRLM IV GSV
RMGVTIZGRLM LU VOVXGILMRX GLLOH ZMW RWVZH--GSZG KVLKOV OVZIM YVHG DSVM
GSV NZGVIRZO IVOZGVH GL HLNVGSRMT GSVB PMLD.

EVXXRZ NZWV GSV URMZO KLRMG GSZG RM NZMB XZHVH ZN HVIEVH ZH Z
