Perseus has not been used so much for classics education as for general
education, where it seemed to have an impact on the students in the core
course at Harvard (a general required course that students must take in
certain areas).  Students were able to use primary material much more.

The Perseus Project has an evaluation team at the University of Maryland
that has been documenting Perseus' effects on education.  Perseus is very
popular, and anecdotal evidence indicates that it is having an effect at
places other than Harvard, for example, test sites at Ball State
University, Drury College, and numerous small places where opportunities
to use vast amounts of primary data may not exist.  One documented effect
is that archaeological, anthropological, and philological research is
being done by the same person instead of by three different people.

The contextual information in Perseus includes an overview essay, a
fairly linear historical essay on the fifth century B.C. that provides
links into the primary material (e.g., Herodotus, Thucydides, and
Plutarch), via small gray underscoring (on the screen) of linked
passages.  These are handmade links into other material.

To different extents, most of the production work was done at Harvard,
where the people and the equipment are located.  Much of the
collaborative activity involved data collection and structuring, because
the main challenge and the emphasis of Perseus is the gathering of
primary material, that is, building a useful environment for studying
classical Greece, collecting data, and making it useful.
Systems-building is definitely not the main concern.  Thus, much of the
work has involved writing essays, collecting information, rewriting it,
and tagging it.  That can be done off site.  The creative link for the
overview essay as well as for both systems and data was collaborative,
and was forged via E-mail and paper mail with professors at Pomona and
Bowdoin.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
CALALUCA * PLD's principal focus and contribution to scholarship *
Various questions preparatory to beginning the project * Basis for
project * Basic rule in converting PLD * Concerning the images in PLD *
Running PLD under a variety of retrieval softwares * Encoding the
database a hard-fought issue * Various features demonstrated * Importance
of user documentation * Limitations of the CD-ROM version *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Eric CALALUCA, vice president, Chadwyck-Healey, Inc., demonstrated a
software interpretation of the Patrologia Latina Database (PLD).  PLD's
principal focus from the beginning of the project about three-and-a-half
years ago was on converting Migne's Latin series, and in the end,
CALALUCA suggested, conversion of the text will be the major contribution
to scholarship.  CALALUCA stressed that, as possibly the only private
publishing organization at the Workshop, Chadwyck-Healey had sought no
federal funds or national foundation support before embarking upon the
project, but instead had relied upon a great deal of homework and
marketing to accomplish the task of conversion.

Ever since the possibilities of computer-searching have emerged, scholars
in the field of late ancient and early medieval studies (philosophers,
theologians, classicists, and those studying the history of natural law
and the history of the legal development of Western civilization) have
been longing for a fully searchable version of Western literature, for
example, all the texts of Augustine and Bernard of Clairvaux and
Boethius, not to mention all the secondary and tertiary authors.

Various questions arose, CALALUCA said.  Should one convert Migne?
Should the database be encoded?  Is it necessary to do that?  How should
it be delivered?  What about CD-ROM?  Since this is a transitional
medium, why even bother to create software to run on a CD-ROM?  Since
everybody knows people will be networking information, why go to the
trouble--which is far greater with CD-ROM than with the production of
magnetic data?  Finally, how does one make the data available?  Can many
of the hurdles to using electronic information that some publishers have
imposed upon databases be eliminated?

The PLD project was based on the principle that computer-searching of
texts is most effective when it is done with a large database.  Because
PLD represented a collection that serves so many disciplines across so
many periods, it was irresistible.

The basic rule in converting PLD was to do no harm, to avoid the sins of
intrusion in such a database:  no introduction of newer editions, no
on-the-spot changes, no eradicating of all possible falsehoods from an
edition.  Thus, PLD is not the final act in electronic publishing for
this discipline, but simply the beginning.  The conversion of PLD has
evoked numerous unanticipated questions:  How will information be used?
What about networking?  Can the rights of a database be protected?
Should one protect the rights of a database?  How can it be made
available?

Those converting PLD also tried to avoid the sins of omission, that is,
excluding portions of the collections or whole sections.  What about the
images?  PLD is full of images, some are extremely pious
nineteenth-century representations of the Fathers, while others contain
highly interesting elements.  The goal was to cover all the text of Migne
(including notes, in Greek and in Hebrew, the latter of which, in
particular, causes problems in creating a search structure), all the
indices, and even the images, which are being scanned in separately
searchable files.

Several North American institutions that have placed acquisition requests
for the PLD database have requested it in magnetic form without software,
which means they are already running it without software, without
anything demonstrated at the Workshop.

What cannot practically be done is go back and reconvert and re-encode
data, a time-consuming and extremely costly enterprise.  CALALUCA sees
PLD as a database that can, and should, be run under a variety of
retrieval softwares.  This will permit the widest possible searches.
Consequently, the need to produce a CD-ROM of PLD, as well as to develop
software that could handle some 1.3 gigabyte of heavily encoded text,
developed out of conversations with collection development and reference
librarians who wanted software both compassionate enough for the
pedestrian but also capable of incorporating the most detailed
lexicographical studies that a user desires to conduct.  In the end, the
encoding and conversion of the data will prove the most enduring
testament to the value of the project.

The encoding of the database was also a hard-fought issue:  Did the
database need to be encoded? Were there normative structures for encoding
humanist texts?  Should it be SGML?  What about the TEI--will it last,
will it prove useful?  CALALUCA expressed some minor doubts as to whether
a data bank can be fully TEI-conformant.  Every effort can be made, but
in the end to be TEI-conformant means to accept the need to make some
firm encoding decisions that can, indeed, be disputed.  The TEI points
the publisher in a proper direction but does not presume to make all the
decisions for him or her.  Essentially, the goal of encoding was to
eliminate, as much as possible, the hindrances to information-networking,
so that if an institution acquires a database, everybody associated with
the institution can have access to it.

CALALUCA demonstrated a portion of Volume 160, because it had the most
anomalies in it.  The software was created by Electronic Book
Technologies of Providence, RI, and is called Dynatext.  The software
works only with SGML-coded data.

Viewing a table of contents on the screen, the audience saw how Dynatext
treats each element as a book and attempts to simplify movement through a
volume.  Familiarity with the Patrologia in print (i.e., the text, its
source, and the editions) will make the machine-readable versions highly
useful.  (Software with a Windows application was sought for PLD,
CALALUCA said, because this was the main trend for scholarly use.)

CALALUCA also demonstrated how a user can perform a variety of searches
and quickly move to any part of a volume; the look-up screen provides
some basic, simple word-searching.

CALALUCA argued that one of the major difficulties is not the software.
Rather, in creating a product that will be used by scholars representing
a broad spectrum of computer sophistication,  user documentation proves
to be the most important service one can provide.

CALALUCA next illustrated a truncated search under mysterium within ten
words of virtus and how one would be able to find its contents throughout
the entire database.  He said that the exciting thing about PLD is that
many of the applications in the retrieval software being written for it
will exceed the capabilities of the software employed now for the CD-ROM
version.  The CD-ROM faces genuine limitations, in terms of speed and
comprehensiveness, in the creation of a retrieval software to run it.
CALALUCA said he hoped that individual scholars will download the data,
if they wish, to their personal computers, and have ready access to
important texts on a constant basis, which they will be able to use in
their research and from which they might even be able to publish.

(CALALUCA explained that the blue numbers represented Migne's column numbers,
which are the standard scholarly references.  Pulling up a note, he stated
that these texts were heavily edited and the image files would appear simply
as a note as well, so that one could quickly access an image.)

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
FLEISCHHAUER/ERWAY * Several problems with which AM is still wrestling *
Various search and retrieval capabilities * Illustration of automatic
stemming and a truncated search * AM's attempt to find ways to connect
cataloging to the texts * AM's gravitation towards SGML * Striking a
balance between quantity and quality * How AM furnishes users recourse to
images * Conducting a search in a full-text environment * Macintosh and
IBM prototypes of AM * Multimedia aspects of AM *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

A demonstration of American Memory by its coordinator, Carl FLEISCHHAUER,
and Ricky ERWAY, associate coordinator, Library of Congress, concluded
the morning session.  Beginning with a collection of broadsides from the
Continental Congress and the Constitutional Convention, the only text
collection in a presentable form at the time of the Workshop, FLEISCHHAUER
highlighted several of the problems with which AM is still wrestling.
(In its final form, the disk will contain two collections, not only the
broadsides but also the full text with illustrations of a set of
approximately 300 African-American pamphlets from the period 1870 to 1910.)

As FREEMAN had explained earlier, AM has attempted to use a small amount
of interpretation to introduce collections.  In the present case, the
contractor, a company named Quick Source, in Silver Spring, MD., used
software called Toolbook and put together a modestly interactive
introduction to the collection.  Like the two preceding speakers,
FLEISCHHAUER argued that the real asset was the underlying collection.

FLEISCHHAUER proceeded to describe various search and retrieval
capabilities while ERWAY worked the computer.  In this particular package
the "go to" pull-down allowed the user in effect to jump out of Toolbook,
where the interactive program was located, and enter the third-party
software used by AM for this text collection, which is called Personal
Librarian.  This was the Windows version of Personal Librarian, a
software application put together by a company in Rockville, Md.

Since the broadsides came from the Revolutionary War period, a search was
conducted using the words British or war, with the default operator reset
as or.  FLEISCHHAUER demonstrated both automatic stemming (which finds
other forms of the same root) and a truncated search.  One of Personal
Librarian's strongest features, the relevance ranking, was represented by
a chart that indicated how often words being sought appeared in
documents, with the one receiving the most "hits" obtaining the highest
score.  The "hit list" that is supplied takes the relevance ranking into
account, making the first hit, in effect, the one the software has
selected as the most relevant example.

While in the text of one of the broadside documents, FLEISCHHAUER
remarked AM's attempt to find ways to connect cataloging to the texts,
which it does in different ways in different manifestations.  In the case
shown, the cataloging was pasted on:  AM took MARC records that were
written as on-line records right into one of the Library's mainframe
retrieval programs, pulled them out, and handed them off to the contractor,
who massaged them somewhat to display them in the manner shown.  One of
AM's questions is, Does the cataloguing normally performed in the mainframe
work in this context, or had AM ought to think through adjustments?

FLEISCHHAUER made the additional point that, as far as the text goes, AM
has gravitated towards SGML (he pointed to the boldface in the upper part
of the screen).  Although extremely limited in its ability to translate
or interpret SGML, Personal Librarian will furnish both bold and italics
on screen; a fairly easy thing to do, but it is one of the ways in which
SGML is useful.

Striking a balance between quantity and quality has been a major concern
of AM, with accuracy being one of the places where project staff have
felt that less than 100-percent accuracy was not unacceptable.
FLEISCHHAUER cited the example of the standard of the rekeying industry,
namely 99.95 percent; as one service bureau informed him, to go from
99.95 to 100 percent would double the cost.

FLEISCHHAUER next demonstrated how AM furnishes users recourse to images,
and at the same time recalled LESK's pointed question concerning the
number of people who would look at those images and the number who would
work only with the text.  If the implication of LESK's question was
sound, FLEISCHHAUER said, it raised the stakes for text accuracy and
reduced the value of the strategy for images.

Contending that preservation is always a bugaboo, FLEISCHHAUER
demonstrated several images derived from a scan of a preservation
microfilm that AM had made.  He awarded a grade of C at best, perhaps a
C minus or a C plus, for how well it worked out.  Indeed, the matter of
learning if other people had better ideas about scanning in general, and,
in particular, scanning from microfilm, was one of the factors that drove
AM to attempt to think through the agenda for the Workshop.  Skew, for
example, was one of the issues that AM in its ignorance had not reckoned
would prove so difficult.

Further, the handling of images of the sort shown, in a desktop computer
environment, involved a considerable amount of zooming and scrolling.
Ultimately, AM staff feel that perhaps the paper copy that is printed out
might be the most useful one, but they remain uncertain as to how much
on-screen reading users will do.

Returning to the text, FLEISCHHAUER asked viewers to imagine a person who
might be conducting a search in a full-text environment.  With this
scenario, he proceeded to illustrate other features of Personal Librarian
that he considered helpful; for example, it provides the ability to
notice words as one reads.  Clicking the "include" button on the bottom
of the search window pops the words that have been highlighted into the
search.  Thus, a user can refine the search as he or she reads,
re-executing the search and continuing to find things in the quest for
materials.  This software not only contains relevance ranking, Boolean
operators, and truncation, it also permits one to perform word algebra,
so to say, where one puts two or three words in parentheses and links
them with one Boolean operator and then a couple of words in another set
of parentheses and asks for things within so many words of others.

Until they became acquainted recently with some of the work being done in
classics, the AM staff had not realized that a large number of the
projects that involve electronic texts were being done by people with a
profound interest in language and linguistics.  Their search strategies
and thinking are oriented to those fields, as is shown in particular by
the Perseus example.  As amateur historians, the AM staff were thinking
more of searching for concepts and ideas than for particular words.
Obviously, FLEISCHHAUER conceded, searching for concepts and ideas and
searching for words may be two rather closely related things.

While displaying several images, FLEISCHHAUER observed that the Macintosh
prototype built by AM contains a greater diversity of formats.  Echoing a
previous speaker, he said that it was easier to stitch things together in
the Macintosh, though it tended to be a little more anemic in search and
retrieval.  AM, therefore, increasingly has been investigating
sophisticated retrieval engines in the IBM format.

FLEISCHHAUER demonstrated several additional examples of the prototype
interfaces:  One was AM's metaphor for the network future, in which a
kind of reading-room graphic suggests how one would be able to go around
to different materials.  AM contains a large number of photographs in
analog video form worked up from a videodisc, which enable users to make
copies to print or incorporate in digital documents.  A frame-grabber is
built into the system, making it possible to bring an image into a window
and digitize or print it out.

FLEISCHHAUER next demonstrated sound recording, which included texts.
Recycled from a previous project, the collection included sixty 78-rpm
phonograph records of political speeches that were made during and
immediately after World War I.  These constituted approximately three
hours of audio, as AM has digitized it, which occupy 150 megabytes on a
CD.  Thus, they are considerably compressed.  From the catalogue card,
FLEISCHHAUER proceeded to a transcript of a speech with the audio
available and with highlighted text following it as it played.
A photograph has been added and a transcription made.

Considerable value has been added beyond what the Library of Congress
normally would do in cataloguing a sound recording, which raises several
questions for AM concerning where to draw lines about how much value it can
afford to add and at what point, perhaps, this becomes more than AM could
reasonably do or reasonably wish to do.  FLEISCHHAUER also demonstrated
a motion picture.  As FREEMAN had reported earlier, the motion picture
materials have proved the most popular, not surprisingly.  This says more
about the medium, he thought, than about AM's presentation of it.

Because AM's goal was to bring together things that could be used by
historians or by people who were curious about history,
turn-of-the-century footage seemed to represent the most appropriate
collections from the Library of Congress in motion pictures. These were
the very first films made by Thomas Edison's company and some others at
that time.  The particular example illustrated was a Biograph film,
brought in with a frame-grabber into a window.  A single videodisc
contains about fifty titles and pieces of film from that period, all of
New York City.  Taken together, AM believes, they provide an interesting
documentary resource.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Using the frame-grabber in AM * Volume of material processed
and to be processed * Purpose of AM within LC * CatalogFRMT ZMW GSV
MZGFIV LU ZN'H NZGVIRZO * HTNO XLWRMT ZMW GSV JFVHGRLM LU JFZORGB EVIHFH
JFZMGRGB *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

WFIRMT GSV JFVHGRLM-ZMW-ZMHDVI KVIRLW GSZG ULOOLDVW UOVRHXSSZFVI'H
KIVHVMGZGRLM, HVEVIZO XOZIRURXZGRLMH DVIV NZWV.

ZN RH YIRMTRMT RM NLGRLM KRXGFIVH UILN Z ERWVLWRHX.  GSV UIZNV-TIZYYVI
WVERXVH XIVZGV Z DRMWLD LM Z XLNKFGVI HXIVVM, DSRXS KVINRGH FHVIH GL
WRTRGRAV Z HRMTOV UIZNV LU GSV NLERV LI LMV LU GSV KSLGLTIZKSH.  RG
KILWFXVH Z XIFWV, ILFTS-ZMW-IVZWB RNZTV GSZG SRTS HXSLLO HGFWVMGH XZM
RMXLIKLIZGV RMGL KZKVIH, ZMW GSZG SZH DLIPVW EVIB MRXVOB RM GSRH DZB.

XLNNVMGRMT LM UOVRHXSSZFVI'H ZHHVIGRLM GSZG ZN DZH OLLPRMT NLIV ZG
HVZIXSRMT RWVZH GSZM DLIWH, NBOLMZH ZITFVW GSZG DRGSLFG DLIWH ZM RWVZ
WLVH MLG VCRHG.  UOVRHXSSZFVI XLMXVWVW GSZG SV LFTSG GL SZEV ZIGRXFOZGVW
SRH KLRMG NLIV XOVZIOB.  NBOLMZH HGZGVW GSZG GSVB DVIV RM UZXG YLGS
GZOPRMT ZYLFG GSV HZNV GSRMT.  YB HVZIXSRMT ULI DLIWH ZMW YB ULIXRMT
KVLKOV GL ULXFH LM GSV DLIW, GSV KVIHVFH KILQVXG UVOG GSZG GSVB DLFOW TVG
GSVN GL GSV RWVZ.  GSV DZB LMV IVERVDH IVHFOGH RH GZROLIVW NLIV GL LMV
PRMW LU FHVI GSZM ZMLGSVI.

XLMXVIMRMT GSV GLGZO ELOFNV LU NZGVIRZO GSZG SZH YVVM KILXVHHVW RM GSRH
DZB, ZN ZG GSRH KLRMG SZH RM IVGIRVEZYOV ULIN HVEVM LI VRTSG XLOOVXGRLMH,
ZOO LU GSVN KSLGLTIZKSRX.  RM GSV NZXRMGLHS VMERILMNVMG, ULI VCZNKOV,
GSVIV KILYZYOB ZIV 35,000-40,000 KSLGLTIZKSH.  GSV HLFMW IVXLIWRMTH
MFNYVI HRCGB RGVNH.  GSV YILZWHRWVH MFNYVI ZYLFG 300 RGVNH.  GSVIV ZIV
500 KLORGRXZO XZIGLLMH RM GSV ULIN LU WIZDRMTH.  GSV NLGRLM KRXGFIVH, ZH
RMWRERWFZO RGVNH, MFNYVI HRCGB GL HVEVMGB.

ZN ZOHL SZH Z NZMFHXIRKG XLOOVXGRLM, GSV ORUV SRHGLIB KLIGRLM LU LMV LU
GSV UVWVIZO KILQVXG HVIRVH, DSRXS DROO XLMGZRM 2,900 RMWRERWFZO
WLXFNVMGH, ZOO URIHG-KVIHLM MZIIZGREVH.  ZN SZH RM KILXVHH ZYLFG 350
ZUIRXZM-ZNVIRXZM KZNKSOVGH, LI ZYLFG 12,000 KIRMGVW KZTVH ULI GSV KVIRLW
1870-1910.  ZOHL RM GSV DLIPH ZIV HLNV 4,000 KZMLIZNRX KSLGLTIZKSH.  ZN
SZH IVXBXOVW Z UZRI ZNLFMG LU GSV DLIP WLMV YB OX'H KIRMGH ZMW
KSLGLTIZKSH WRERHRLM WFIRMT GSV ORYIZIB'H LKGRXZO WRHP KROLG KILQVXG RM
GSV 1980H.  ULI VCZNKOV, Z HKVXRZO WRERHRLM LU OX SZH GLLOVW FK ZMW
GSLFTSG GSILFTS ZOO GSV IZNRURXZGRLMH LU VOVXGILMRX KIVHVMGZGRLM LU
KSLGLTIZKSH.  RMWVVW, GSVB ZIV DSVVORMT GSVN LFG RM TIVZG YZIIVO OLZWH.
GSV KFIKLHV LU ZN DRGSRM GSV ORYIZIB, RG RH SLKVW, RH GL XZGZOBAV HVEVIZO
LU GSV LGSVI HKVXRZO XLOOVXGRLM WRERHRLMH DSRXS SZEV ML KZIGRXFOZI
VCKVIRVMXV DRGS, RM HLNV XZHVH, NRCVW UVVORMTH ZYLFG, ZM ZXGRERGB HFXS ZH
ZN.  NLIVLEVI, RM NZMB XZHVH GSV WRERHRLMH NZB YV XSZIZXGVIRAVW ZH MLG
LMOB OZXPRMT VCKVIRVMXV RM "VOVXGILMRUBRMT" GSRMTH YFG ZOHL RM ZFGLNZGVW
XZGZOLTFRMT.  NZIX XZGZOLTFRMT ZH KIZXGRXVW RM GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH RH
SVZEROB DVRTSGVW GLDZIW GSV WVHXIRKGRLM LU NLMLTIZKS ZMW HVIRZO
NZGVIRZOH, YFG RH NFXS GSRMMVI DSVM LMV VMGVIH GSV DLIOW LU NZMFHXIRKGH
ZMW GSRMTH GSZG ZIV SVOW RM GSV ORYIZIB'H NFHRX XLOOVXGRLM ZMW LGSVI
FMRGH.  RM IVHKLMHV GL Z XLNNVMG YB OVHP, GSZG ZN'H NZGVIRZO RH EVIB
SVZEROB KSLGLTIZKSRX, ZMW RH HL KIRNZIROB YVXZFHV RMWRERWFZO IVXLIWH SZEV
YVVM NZWV ULI VZXS KSLGLTIZKS, UOVRHXSSZFVI LYHVIEVW GSZG ZM RGVN-OVEVO
XZGZOLT IVXLIW VCRHGH, ULI VCZNKOV, ULI VZXS KSLGLTIZKS RM GSV WVGILRG
KFYORHSRMT XLOOVXGRLM LU 25,000 KRXGFIVH.  RM GSV XZHV LU GSV UVWVIZO
DIRGVIH KILQVXG, ULI DSRXS MVZIOB 3,000 WLXFNVMGH VCRHG, IVKIVHVMGRMT
RMULINZGRLM UILN GDVMGB-HRC WRUUVIVMG HGZGVH, ZN DRGS GSV ZHHRHGZMXV LU
PZIVM HGFZIG LU GSV NZMFHXIRKG WRERHRLM DROO ZGGVNKG GL URMW HLNV DZB MLG
LMOB GL SZEV Z XLOOVXGRLM-OVEVO IVXLIW YFG KVISZKH Z NZIX IVXLIW ULI VZXS
HGZGV, DSRXS DROO GSVM HVIEV ZH ZM FNYIVOOZ ULI GSV 100-200 WLXFNVMGH
GSZG XLNV FMWVI RG.  YFG GSZG WIZNZ IVNZRMH GL YV VMZXGVW.  GSV ZN HGZUU
RH XLMHVIEZGREV ZMW XORMTH GL XZGZOLTFRMT, GSLFTS LU XLFIHV ERHRGLIH GLFG
ZIGRURXRZO RMGVOORTVMXV ZMW MVFIZO MVGDLIPH RM Z NZMMVI GSZG HFTTVHGH GSZG
KVISZKH LMV MVVW MLG SZEV XZGZOLTFRMT LI GSZG NFXS LU RG XLFOW YV KFG ZHRWV.

GSV NZGGVI LU HTNO XLWRMT, UOVRHXSSZFVI XLMXVWVW, IVGFIMVW GSV WRHXFHHRLM
GL GSV VZIORVI GIVZGVW JFVHGRLM LU JFZORGB EVIHFH JFZMGRGB RM GSV ORYIZIB
LU XLMTIVHH.  LU XLFIHV, GVCG XLMEVIHRLM XZM YV WLMV DRGS 100-KVIXVMG
ZXXFIZXB, YFG RG NVZMH GSZG DSVM LMV'H SLOWRMTH ZIV ZH EZHG ZH OX'H LMOB
Z GRMB ZNLFMG DROO YV VCKLHVW, DSVIVZH KVINRGGRMT OLDVI OVEVOH LU
ZXXFIZXB XZM OVZW GL VCKLHRMT LI HSZIRMT OZITVI ZNLFMGH, YFG DRGS GSV
JFZORGB XLIIVHKLMWRMTOB RNKZRIVW.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
GDLSRT * Z XLMGIZIB VCKVIRVMXV XLMXVIMRMT VOVXGILMRX LKGRLMH * ELOFNV LU
NZGVIRZO RM GSV DZHSRMTGLM KZKVIH ZMW Z HFTTVHGRLM LU WZERW KZXPZIW *
RNKORXZGRLMH LU KZXPZIW'H HFTTVHGRLM * GIZMHXIRYRMT GSV WLXFNVMGH ULI GSV
XW-ILN * ZXXFIZXB LU GIZMHXIRKGRLMH * GSV XW-ILN VWRGRLM LU GSV ULFMWRMT
UZGSVIH WLXFNVMGH *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

URMWRMT VMXLFIZTVNVMG RM Z XLNNVMG LU NRXSVOHLM'H UILN GSV NLIMRMT
HVHHRLM--GSZG MFNVILFH KVLKOV RM GSV SFNZMRGRVH DVIV XSLLHRMT VOVXGILMRX
LKGRLMH GL WL GSVRI DLIP--WLILGSB GDLSRT, VWRGLI, GSV KZKVIH LU TVLITV
DZHSRMTGLM, LKVMVW SVI ROOFHGIZGVW GZOP YB MLGRMT GSZG SVI VCKVIRVMXV
DRGS ORGVIZIB HXSLOZIH ZMW MFNVILFH KVLKOV RM VWRGRMT DZH XLMGIZIB GL
NRXSVOHLM'H.  GDLSRT VNKSZHRAVW ORGVIZIB HXSLOZIH' XLNKOVGV RTMLIZMXV LU
GSV GVXSMLOLTRXZO LKGRLMH ZEZROZYOV GL GSVN LI GSVRI IVOFXGZMXV LI, RM
HLNV XZHVH, GSVRI WLDMIRTSG SLHGRORGB GLDZIW GSVHV LKGRLMH.

ZUGVI KILERWRMT ZM LEVIERVD LU GSV UREV ULFMWRMT UZGSVIH KILQVXGH
(QVUUVIHLM ZG KIRMXVGLM, UIZMPORM ZG BZOV, QLSM ZWZNH ZG GSV
NZHHZXSFHVGGH SRHGLIRXZO HLXRVGB, ZMW NZWRHLM WLDM GSV SZOO UILN SVI ZG
GSV FMREVIHRGB LU ERITRMRZ), GDLSRT LYHVIEVW GSZG GSV DZHSRMTGLM KZKVIH,
ORPV ZOO LU GSV KILQVXGH, RMXOFWV YLGS HRWVH LU GSV DZHSRMTGLM
XLIIVHKLMWVMXV ZMW WVZO DRGS HLNV 135,000 WLXFNVMGH GL YV KFYORHSVW DRGS
VCGVMHREV ZMMLGZGRLM RM VRTSGB GL VRTSGB-UREV ELOFNVH, Z KILQVXG GSZG
DROO MLG YV XLNKOVGVW FMGRO DVOO RMGL GSV MVCG XVMGFIB.  GSFH, RG DZH
DRGS XLMHRWVIZYOV VMGSFHRZHN HVEVIZO BVZIH ZTL GSZG GSV DZHSRMTGLM KZKVIH
KILQVXG (DKK) TIVVGVW WZERW KZXPZIW'H HFTTVHGRLM GSZG GSV KZKVIH LU GSV
ULFMWRMT UZGSVIH XLFOW YV KFYORHSVW VZHROB ZMW RMVCKVMHREVOB, ZMW GL GSV
TIVZG YVMVURG LU ZNVIRXZM HXSLOZIHSRK, ERZ XW-ILN.

RM KIZTNZGRX GVINH, UFMWRMT UILN GSV KZXPZIW ULFMWZGRLM DLFOW VCKVWRGV
GSV GIZMHXIRKGRLM LU GSLFHZMWH LU WLXFNVMGH DZRGRMT GL YV KFG LM WRHP RM
GSV DKK LUURXVH.  UFIGSVI, HRMXV GSV XLHGH LU XLOOVXGRMT, VWRGRMT, ZMW
XLMEVIGRMT GSV ULFMWRMT UZGSVIH WLXFNVMGH RMGL OVGGVIKIVHH VWRGRLMH DVIV
IFMMRMT RMGL GSV NROORLMH LU WLOOZIH, ZMW GSV XLMHRWVIZYOV HGZUUH
RMELOEVW RM ZOO LU GSVHV KILQVXGH DVIV WVELGRMT GSVRI XZIVVIH GL
KILWFXRMT GSV DLIP, GSV KZXPZIW ULFMWZGRLM'H HFTTVHGRLM SZW Z
IVELOFGRLMZIB ZHKVXG:  GIZMHXIRKGRLMH LU GSV VMGRIV XLIKFH LU GSV
ULFMWRMT UZGSVIH KZKVIH DLFOW YV ZEZROZYOV LM XW-ILN GL KFYORX ZMW
XLOOVTV ORYIZIRVH, VEVM SRTS HXSLLOH, ZG Z UIZXGRLM LU GSV XLHG--
$100-$150 ULI GSV ZMMFZO ORXVMHV UVV--GL KILWFXV Z ORNRGVW FMREVIHRGB
KIVHH IFM LU 1,000 LU VZXS ELOFNV LU GSV KFYORHSVW KZKVIH ZG $45-$150 KVI
KIRMGVW ELOFNV.  TREVM GSV XFIIVMG YFWTVG XIFMXS RM VWFXZGRLMZO HBHGVNH
ZMW GSV XLIIVHKLMWRMT XLMHGIZRMGH LM ORYIZIRZMH RM HNZOOVI RMHGRGFGRLMH
DSL DRHS GL ZWW GSVHV ELOFNVH GL GSVRI XLOOVXGRLMH, KILWFXRMT GSV
WLXFNVMGH LM XW-ILN DLFOW ORPVOB LKVM Z TIVZGOB VCKZMWVW ZFWRVMXV ULI GSV
KZKVIH.  GDLSRT HGIVHHVW, SLDVEVI, GSZG WVEVOLKNVMG LU GSV ULFMWRMT
UZGSVIH XW-ILN RH HGROO RM RGH RMUZMXB.  HVIRLFH HLUGDZIV KILYOVNH IVNZRM
GL YV IVHLOEVW YVULIV GSV NZGVIRZO XZM YV KFG RMGL IVZWZYOV ULIN.

UFMWRMT UILN GSV KZXPZIW ULFMWZGRLM IVHFOGVW RM Z NZQLI KFHS GL
GIZMHXIRYV GSV 75,000 LI HL WLXFNVMGH LU GSV DZHSRMTGLM KZKVIH IVNZRMRMT
GL YV GIZMHXIRYVW LMGL XLNKFGVI WRHPH.  HORWVH ROOFHGIZGVW HVEVIZO LU GSV
KILYOVNH VMXLFMGVIVW, ULI VCZNKOV, GSV KIVHVMG RMZYRORGB LU XW-ILN GL
RMWRXZGV GSV XILHH-LFGH (WVOVGVW NZGVIRZO) RM VRTSGVVMGS XVMGFIB
WLXFNVMGH.  GDLSRT MVCG WVHXIRYVW WLXFNVMGH UILN EZIRLFH KVIRLWH RM GSV
VRTSGVVMGS XVMGFIB GSZG SZEV YVVM GIZMHXIRYVW RM XSILMLOLTRXZO LIWVI ZMW
WVOREVIVW GL GSV KZXPZIW LUURXVH RM XZORULIMRZ, DSVIV GSVB ZIV XLMEVIGVW
GL GSV XW-ILN, Z KILXVHH GSZG RH VCKVXGVW GL XLMHFNV UREV BVZIH GL
XLNKOVGV (GSZG RH, IVXPLMRMT UILN WZERW KZXPZIW'H HFTTVHGRLM NZWV HVEVIZO
BVZIH ZTL, FMGRO ZYLFG QFOB 1994).  GDLSRT ULFMW ZM VMXLFIZTRMT
RMWRXZGRLM LU GSV KILQVXG'H YVMVURGH RM GSV LMTLRMT FHV NZWV YB HXSLOZIH
LU GSV HVZIXS UFMXGRLMH LU GSV XW-ILN, KZIGRXFOZIOB RM IVWFXRMT GSV GRNV
HKVMG RM NZMFZOOB GFIMRMT GSV KZTVH LU GSV DZHSRMTGLM KZKVIH.

GDLSRT MVCG UFIMRHSVW WVGZROH XLMXVIMRMT GSV ZXXFIZXB LU GIZMHXIRKGRLMH.
ULI RMHGZMXV, GSV RMHVIGRLM LU GSLFHZMWH LU WLXFNVMGH LM GSV XW-ILN
XFIIVMGOB WLVH MLG KVINRG VZXS WLXFNVMG GL YV EVIRURVW ZTZRMHG GSV
LIRTRMZO NZMFHXIRKG HVEVIZO GRNVH ZH RM GSV XZHV LU WLXFNVMGH GSZG ZKKVZI
RM GSV KFYORHSVW VWRGRLM.  SLDVEVI, GSV GIZMHXIRKGRLMH IVXVREV Z XFIHLIB
XSVXP ULI LYERLFH GBKLH, GSV NRHHKVOORMTH LU KILKVI MZNVH, ZMW LGSVI
VIILIH UILN GSV DKK XW-ILN VWRGLI.  VEVMGFZOOB, ZOO WLXFNVMGH GSZG ZKKVZI
RM GSV VOVXGILMRX EVIHRLM DROO YV XSVXPVW YB KILQVXG VWRGLIH.  ZOGSLFTS
GSRH KILXVHH SZH NVG DRGS LKKLHRGRLM UILN HLNV LU GSV VWRGLIH LM GSV
TILFMWH GSZG RNKVIUVXG DLIP NZB OVZEV GSVRI LUURXVH, GSV ZWEZMGZTVH RM
NZPRMT GSRH NZGVIRZO ZEZROZYOV ZH Z IVHVZIXS GLLO LFGDVRTS  UVZIH ZYLFG GSV
NRHHKVOORMT LU KILKVI MZNVH ZMW LGSVI IVOZGREVOB NRMLI VWRGLIRZO NZGGVIH.

XLNKOVGRLM LU ZOO UREV ULFMWRMT UZGSVIH KILQVXGH (R.V., IVGIRVEZYRORGB
ZMW HVZIXSZYRORGB LU ZOO LU GSV WLXFNVMGH YB KILKVI MZNVH, ZOGVIMZGV
HKVOORMTH, LI EZIRVGRVH LU HFYQVXGH) DROO KILERWV LMV LU GSV IRXSVHG
HLFIXVH LU GSRH HRAV ULI GSV SRHGLIB LU GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH RM GSV OZGGVI
KZIG LU GSV VRTSGVVMGS XVMGFIB.  UFIGSVI, KFYORXZGRLM LM XW-ILN DROO
ZOOLD VWRGLIH GL RMXOFWV VEVM NRMFGRZV, HFXS ZH OZFMWIB ORHGH, MLG
RMXOFWVW RM GSV KIRMGVW ELOFNVH.

RG HVVNH KLHHRYOV GSZG GSV VCGVMHREV ZMMLGZGRLM KILERWVW RM GSV KIRMGVW
ELOFNVH VEVMGFZOOB DROO YV ZWWVW GL GSV XW-ILN VWRGRLM, KVMWRMT
MVTLGRZGRLMH DRGS GSV KFYORHSVIH LU GSV KZKVIH.  ZG GSV NLNVMG, GSV
ULFMWRMT UZGSVIH XW-ILN RH ZXXVHHRYOV LMOB LM GSV RYBXFH, Z XLNKFGVI
WVEVOLKVW LFG LU GSV GSVHZFIFH ORMTFZV TIZVXZV KILQVXG ZMW WVHRTMVW ULI
GSV FHV LU XOZHHRXZO HXSLOZIH.  GSVIV ZIV KVISZKH 400 RYBXFH XLNKFGVIH RM
GSV XLFMGIB, NLHG LU DSRXS ZIV RM FMREVIHRGB XOZHHRXH WVKZIGNVMGH.
FOGRNZGVOB, RG RH ZMGRXRKZGVW GSZG GSV XW-ILN VWRGRLM LU GSV ULFMWRMT
UZGSVIH WLXFNVMGH DROO IFM LM ZMB RYN-XLNKZGRYOV LI NZXRMGLHS XLNKFGVI
DRGS Z XW-ILN WIREV.  MFNVILFH XSZMTVH RM GSV HLUGDZIV DROO ZOHL LXXFI
YVULIV GSV KILQVXG RH XLNKOVGVW.  (VWRGLI'H MLGV: ZM RYBXFH DZH
FMZEZROZYOV GL WVNLMHGIZGV GSV XW-ILN.)

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
WRHXFHHRLM * HVEVIZO ZWWRGRLMZO UVZGFIVH LU DKK XOZIRURVW *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

WRHXFHHRLM ULOOLDRMT GDLSRT'H KIVHVMGZGRLM HVIEVW GL XOZIRUB HVEVIZO
ZWWRGRLMZO UVZGFIVH, RMXOFWRMT (1) GSZG GSV KILQVXG'H KIRNZIB
RMGVOOVXGFZO KILWFXG XLMHRHGH RM GSV VOVXGILMRX GIZMHXIRKGRLM LU GSV
NZGVIRZO; (2) GSZG GSV GVCG GIZMHNRGGVW GL GSV XW-ILN KVLKOV RH MLG
NZIPVW FK; (3) GSZG XZGZOLTRMT ZMW HFYQVXG-RMWVCRMT LU GSV NZGVIRZO
IVNZRM GL YV DLIPVW LFG (GSLFTS ZG GSRH KLRMG NZGVIRZO XZM YV IVGIRVEVW
YB MZNV); ZMW (4) GSZG YVXZFHV ZOO GSV HVZIXSRMT RH WLMV RM GSV SZIWDZIV,
GSV RYBXFH RH WVHRTMVW GL IVZW Z XW-ILN DSRXS XLMGZRMH LMOB HVJFVMGRZO
GVCG UROVH.  GVXSMRXZOOB, RG GSVM YVXLNVH EVIB VZHB GL IVZW GSV NZGVIRZO
LUU ZMW KFG RG LM ZMLGSVI WVERXV.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
OVYILM * LEVIERVD LU GSV SRHGLIB LU GSV QLRMG KILQVXG YVGDVVM ZZZH ZMW
LXOX * HVEVIZO KIZXGRXVH GSV LM-ORMV VMERILMNVMG HSZIVH DRGS GIZWRGRLMZO
KFYORHSRMT LM SZIW XLKB * HVEVIZO GVXSMRXZO ZMW YVSZERLIZO YZIIRVIH GL
VOVXGILMRX KFYORHSRMT * SLD ZZZH ZMW LXOX ZIIREVW ZG GSV HFYQVXG LU
XORMRXZO GIRZOH * ZWEZMGZTVH LU GSV VOVXGILMRX ULINZG ZMW LGSVI UVZGFIVH
LU LQXXG * ZM ROOFHGIZGVW GLFI LU GSV QLFIMZO *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

NZIRZ OVYILM, NZMZTRMT VWRGLI, GSV LMORMV QLFIMZO LU XFIIVMG XORMRXZO
GIRZOH (LQXXG), KIVHVMGVW ZM ROOFHGIZGVW LEVIERVD LU GSV SRHGLIB LU GSV
QLRMG KILQVXG YVGDVVM GSV ZNVIRXZM ZHHLXRZGRLM ULI GSV ZWEZMXVNVMG LU
HXRVMXV (ZZZH) ZMW GSV LMORMV XLNKFGVI ORYIZIB XVMGVI, RMX. (LXOX).  GSV
QLRMG EVMGFIV YVGDVVM ZZZH ZMW LXOX LDVH RGH YVTRMMRMT GL Z
IVLITZMRAZGRLM OZFMXSVW YB GSV MVD XSRVU VCVXFGREV LUURXVI ZG LXOX ZYLFG
GSIVV BVZIH ZTL ZMW XLNYRMVH GSV HGIVMTGSH LU GSVHV GDL WRHKZIZGV
LITZMRAZGRLMH.  RM HSLIG, LQXXG IVKIVHVMGH GSV KILXVHH LU HXSLOZIOB
KFYORHSRMT LM ORMV.

OVYILM MVCG WRHXFHHVW HVEVIZO KIZXGRXVH GSV LM-ORMV VMERILMNVMG HSZIVH
DRGS GIZWRGRLMZO KFYORHSRMT LM SZIW XLKB--ULI VCZNKOV, KVVI IVERVD LU
NZMFHXIRKGH--GSZG ZIV SRTSOB RNKLIGZMG RM GSV ZXZWVNRX DLIOW.  OVYILM
MLGVW RM KZIGRXFOZI GSV RNKORXZGRLMH LU XRGZGRLM XLFMGH ULI GVMFIV
XLNNRGGVVH ZMW TIZMGH XLNNRGGVVH.  RM GSV GIZWRGRLMZO SZIW-XLKB
VMERILMNVMG, XRGZGRLM XLFMGH ZIV IVZWROB WVNLMHGIZYOV, DSVIVZH GSV
LM-ORMV VMERILMNVMG IVKIVHVMGH ZM VGSVIVZO NVWRFN GL NLHG ZXZWVNRXH.

OVYILM IVNZIPVW HVEVIZO GVXSMRXZO ZMW YVSZERLIZO YZIIRVIH GL VOVXGILMRX
KFYORHSRMT, ULI RMHGZMXV, GSV KILYOVNH RM GIZMHNRHHRLM XIVZGVW YB HKVXRZO
XSZIZXGVIH LI YB XLNKOVC TIZKSRXH ZMW SZOUGLMVH.  RM ZWWRGRLM, HSV MLGVW
VXLMLNRX ORNRGZGRLMH HFXS ZH GSV HGLIZTV XLHGH LU NZRMGZRMRMT YZXP RHHFVH
ZMW NZIPVG LI ZFWRVMXV VWFXZGRLM.

NZMFHXIRKGH XZMMLG YV FKOLZWVW GL LQXXG, OVYILM VCKOZRMVW, YVXZFHV RG RH
MLG Z YFOOVGRM YLZIW LI V-NZRO, ULINH LU VOVXGILMRX GIZMHNRHHRLM LU
RMULINZGRLM GSZG SZEV XIVZGVW ZM ZNYRVMXV XOLFWRMT KVLKOV'H FMWVIHGZMWRMT
LU DSZG GSV QLFIMZO RH ZGGVNKGRMT GL WL.  LQXXG, DSRXS KFYORHSVH
KVVI-IVERVDVW NVWRXZO ZIGRXOVH WVZORMT DRGS GSV HFYQVXG LU XORMRXZO
GIRZOH, RMXOFWVH GVCG, GZYFOZI NZGVIRZO, ZMW TIZKSRXH, ZOGSLFTS ZG GSRH
GRNV RG XZM GIZMHNRG LMOB ORMV ROOFHGIZGRLMH.

MVCG, OVYILM WVHXIRYVW SLD ZZZH ZMW LXOX ZIIREVW ZG GSV HFYQVXG LU
XORMRXZO GIRZOH:  RG RH 1) Z SRTSOB HGZGRHGRXZO WRHXRKORMV GSZG 2) WLVH
MLG IVJFRIV SZOUGLMVH YFG XZM HZGRHUB GSV MVVWH LU RGH ZFWRVMXV DRGS ORMV
ROOFHGIZGRLMH ZMW TIZKSRX NZGVIRZO, ZMW 3) GSVIV RH Z MVVW ULI GSV HKVVWB
WRHHVNRMZGRLM LU SRTS-JFZORGB IVHVZIXS IVHFOGH.  XORMRXZO GIRZOH ZIV
IVHVZIXS ZXGRERGRVH GSZG RMELOEV GSV ZWNRMRHGIZGRLM LU Z GVHG GIVZGNVMG
GL HLNV VCKVIRNVMGZO FMRG RM LIWVI GL GVHG RGH FHVUFOMVHH YVULIV RG RH
NZWV ZEZROZYOV GL GSV TVMVIZO KLKFOZGRLM.  OVYILM KILXVVWVW GL TREV
ZWWRGRLMZO RMULINZGRLM LM LQXXG XLMXVIMRMT RGH VWRGLI-RM-XSRVU, VWRGLIRZO
YLZIW, VWRGLIRZO XLMGVMG, ZMW GSV GBKVH LU ZIGRXOVH RG KFYORHSVH
(RMXOFWRMT KVVI-IVERVDVW IVHVZIXS IVKLIGH ZMW IVERVDH), ZH DVOO ZH
UVZGFIVH HSZIVW YB LGSVI GIZWRGRLMZO SZIW-XLKB QLFIMZOH.

ZNLMT GSV ZWEZMGZTVH LU GSV VOVXGILMRX ULINZG ZIV UZHGVI WRHHVNRMZGRLM LU
RMULINZGRLM, RMXOFWRMT IZD WZGZ, ZMW GSV ZYHVMXV LU HKZXV XLMHGIZRMGH
YVXZFHV KZTVH WL MLG VCRHG.  (GSRH OZGGVI UZXG XIVZGVH ZM RMGVIVHGRMT
HRGFZGRLM DSVM RG XLNVH GL XRGZGRLMH.)  MLI ZIV GSVIV ZMB RHHFVH.  ZZZH'H
XZKZXRGB GL WLDMOLZW NZGVIRZOH WRIVXGOB UILN GSV QLFIMZO GL Z
HFYHXIRYVI'H KIRMGVI, SZIW WIREV, LI UOLKKB WRHP SVOKH VMHFIV SRTSOB
ZXXFIZGV GIZMHXIRKGRLM.  LGSVI UVZGFIVH LU LQXXG RMXOFWV LM-HXIVVM ZOVIGH
GSZG ZOOLD ORMPZTV LU HFYHVJFVMGOB KFYORHSVW WLXFNVMGH GL GSV LIRTRMZO
WLXFNVMGH; LM-ORMV HVZIXSRMT YB HFYQVXG, ZFGSLI, GRGOV, VGX.; RMWVCRMT LU
VEVIB HRMTOV DLIW GSZG ZKKVZIH RM ZM ZIGRXOV; ERVDRMT ZXXVHH GL ZM
ZIGRXOV YB XLNKLMVMG (ZYHGIZXG, UFOO GVCG, LI TIZKSH); MFNYVIVW
KZIZTIZKSH GL IVKOZXV KZTV XLFMGH; KFYORXZGRLM RM HXRVMXV VEVIB GSRIGB
WZBH LU RMWVCRMT LU ZOO ZIGRXOVH KFYORHSVW RM GSV QLFIMZO;
GBKVHVG-JFZORGB HXIVVMH; ZMW SBKVIGVCG ORMPH GSZG VMZYOV HFYHXIRYVIH GL
YIRMT FK NVWORMV ZYHGIZXGH WRIVXGOB DRGSLFG OVZERMT GSV QLFIMZO.

ZUGVI WVGZRORMT GSV GDL KIRNZIB DZBH GL TZRM ZXXVHH GL GSV QLFIMZO,
GSILFTS GSV LXOX MVGDLIP ZMW XLNKFHVIE RU LMV WVHRIVH TIZKSRXH LI GSILFTS
GSV RMGVIMVG RU QFHG ZM ZHXRR UROV RH WVHRIVW, OVYILM ROOFHGIZGVW GSV
HKVVWB VWRGLIRZO KILXVHH ZMW GSV XLWRMT LU GSV WLXFNVMG FHRMT HTNO GZTH
ZUGVI RG SZH YVVM ZXXVKGVW ULI KFYORXZGRLM.  HSV ZOHL TZEV ZM ROOFHGIZGVW
GLFI LU GSV QLFIMZO, RGH HVZIXS-ZMW-IVGIRVEZO XZKZYRORGRVH RM KZIGRXFOZI,
YFG ZOHL RMXOFWRMT KILYOVNH ZHHLXRZGVW DRGS HXZMMRMT RM ROOFHGIZGRLMH,
ZMW GSV RNKLIGZMXV LU LM-HXIVVM ZOVIGH GL GSV NVWRXZO KILUVHHRLM IV
IVGIZXGRLMH LI XLIIVXGRLMH, LI NLIV UIVJFVMGOB, VWRGLIRZOH, OVGGVIH GL
GSV VWRGLIH, LI ULOOLD-FK IVKLIGH.  HSV XOLHVW YB RMERGRMT GSV ZFWRVMXV
GL QLRM ZZZH LM 1 QFOB, DSVM LQXXG DZH HXSVWFOVW GL TL LM-ORMV.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
WRHXFHHRLM * ZWWRGRLMZO UVZGFIVH LU LQXXG *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

RM GSV OVMTGSB WRHXFHHRLM GSZG ULOOLDVW OVYILM'H KIVHVMGZGRLM, GSVHV
KLRMGH VNVITVW:

     * GSV HTNO GVCG XZM YV GZROLIVW ZH FHVIH DRHS.

     * ZOO GSVHV ZIGRXOVH SZEV Z UZRIOB HRNKOV WLXFNVMG WVURMRGRLM.

     * WLXFNVMG-GBKV WVURMRGRLMH (WGWH) DVIV WVEVOLKVW ZMW TREVM GL LQXXG
     ULI XLWRMT.

     * ML ZIGRXOVH DROO YV IVNLEVW UILN GSV QLFIMZO.  (YVXZFHV GSVIV ZIV
     ML YZXP RHHFVH, GSVIV ZIV ML OLHG RHHFVH VRGSVI.  LMXV Z HFYHXIRYVI
     OLTH LMGL GSV QLFIMZO SV LI HSV SZH ZXXVHH MLG LMOB GL GSV XFIIVMGOB
     KFYORHSVW NZGVIRZOH, YFG IVGILHKVXGREVOB GL VEVIBGSRMT GSZG SZH YVVM
     KFYORHSVW RM RG.  GSFH GSV GZYOV LU XLMGVMGH TILDH YRTTVI.  GSV WZGV
     LU KFYORXZGRLM HVIEVH GL WRHGRMTFRHS YVGDVVM XFIIVMGOB KFYORHSVW
     NZGVIRZOH ZMW LOWVI NZGVIRZOH.)

     * GSV KIRXRMT HBHGVN ULI GSV QLFIMZO IVHVNYOVH GSZG ULI NLHG NVWRXZO
     QLFIMZOH:  ULI 1992, $95 ULI Z BVZI, KOFH GVOVXLNNFMRXZGRLMH XSZITVH
     (GSVIV ZIV ML XLMMVXG GRNV XSZITVH);    ULI 1993, $110 ULI GSV
     VMGRIV BVZI ULI HRMTOV FHVIH, GSLFTS GSV QLFIMZO XZM YV KFG LM Z
     OLXZO ZIVZ MVGDLIP (OZM).  SLDVEVI, LMOB LMV KVIHLM XZM ZXXVHH GSV
     QLFIMZO ZG Z GRNV.  HRGV ORXVMHVH NZB XLNV RM GSV UFGFIV.

     * ZZZH RH DLIPRMT XOLHVOB DRGS XLOOVZTFVH ZG LXOX GL WRHKOZB
     NZGSVNZGRXZO VJFZGRLMH LM HXIVVM.

     * DRGSLFG XLNKILNRHRMT ZMB HGVKH RM GSV VWRGLIRZO KILXVHH, GSV
     GVXSMLOLTB SZH IVWFXVW GSV GRNV OZT YVGDVVM DSVM Z NZMFHXIRKG RH
     LIRTRMZOOB HFYNRGGVW ZMW GSV GRNV RG RH ZXXVKGVW; GSV IVERVD KILXVHH
     WLVH MLG WRUUVI TIVZGOB UILN GSV HGZMWZIW HRC-GL-VRTSG DVVPH
     VNKOLBVW YB NZMB LU GSV SZIW-XLKB QLFIMZOH.  GSV KILXVHH HGROO
     WVKVMWH LM KVLKOV.

     * ZH UZI ZH Z KIVHVIEZGRLM XLKB RH XLMXVIMVW, ZIGRXOVH DROO YV
     NZRMGZRMVW LM GSV XLNKFGVI KVINZMVMGOB ZMW HFYHXIRYVIH, ZH KZIG LU
     GSVRI HFYHXIRKGRLM, DROO IVXVREV Z NRXILURXSV-JFZORGB ZIXSREZO XLKB
     LU VEVIBGSRMT KFYORHSVW WFIRMT GSZG BVZI; RM ZWWRGRLM, IVKIRMGH XZM
     YV KFIXSZHVW RM NFXS GSV HZNV DZB ZH RM Z SZIW-XLKB VMERILMNVMG.
     SZIW XLKRVH ZIV KIVKZIVW YFG ZIV MLG GSV KIRNZIB NVWRFN ULI GSV
     WRHHVNRMZGRLM LU GSV RMULINZGRLM.

     * YVXZFHV LQXXG RH MLG BVG LM ORMV, RG RH WRUURXFOG GL PMLD SLD NZMB
     KVLKOV DLFOW HRNKOB YILDHV GSILFTS GSV QLFIMZO LM GSV HXIVVM ZH
     LKKLHVW GL WLDMOLZWRMT GSV DSLOV GSRMT ZMW KIRMGRMT RG LFG; Z NRC LU
     YLGS GBKVH LU FHVIH ORPVOB DROO IVHFOG.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
KVIHLMRFH * WVEVOLKNVMGH RM GVXSMLOLTB LEVI GSV KZHG WVXZWV * GSV XOZHH
KILQVXG * ZWEZMGZTVH ULI GVXSMLOLTB ZMW ULI GSV XOZHH KILQVXG *
WVEVOLKRMT Z MVGDLIP ZKKORXZGRLM ZM FMWVIOBRMT ZHHFNKGRLM LU GSV KILQVXG
* WVGZROH LU GSV HXZMMRMT KILXVHH * KIRMG-LM-WVNZMW XLKRVH LU YLLPH *
UFGFIV KOZMH RMXOFWV WVEVOLKNVMG LU Z YILDHRMT GLLO *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

OBMMV KVIHLMRFH, ZHHRHGZMG WRIVXGLI, XLIMVOO RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTRVH ULI
HXSLOZIOB RMULINZGRLM HVIERXVH, XLIMVOO FMREVIHRGB, URIHG XLNNVMGVW LM
GSV GIVNVMWLFH RNKZXG GSZG WVEVOLKNVMGH RM GVXSMLOLTB LEVI GSV KZHG GVM
BVZIH--MVGDLIPRMT, RM KZIGRXFOZI--SZEV SZW LM GSV DZB RMULINZGRLM RH
SZMWOVW, ZMW SLD, RM SVI LDM XZHV, GSVHV WVEVOLKNVMGH SZEV XLFMGVIYZOZMXVW
XLIMVOO'H IVOZGREV TVLTIZKSRXZO RHLOZGRLM.  LGSVI HRTMRURXZMG GVXSMLOLTRVH
RMXOFWV HXZMMVIH, DSRXS ZIV NFXS NLIV HLKSRHGRXZGVW GSZM GSVB DVIV GVM BVZIH
ZTL; NZHH HGLIZTV ZMW GSV WIZNZGRX HZERMTH GSZG IVHFOG UILN RG RM GVINH LU
YLGS HKZXV ZMW NLMVB IVOZGREV GL GDVMGB LI GSRIGB BVZIH ZTL; MVD ZMW
RNKILEVW KIRMGRMT GVXSMLOLTRVH, DSRXS SZEV TIVZGOB ZUUVXGVW GSV WRHGIRYFGRLM
LU RMULINZGRLM; ZMW, LU XLFIHV, WRTRGZO GVXSMLOLTRVH, DSLHV ZKKORXZYRORGB GL
ORYIZIB KIVHVIEZGRLM IVNZRMH ZG RHHFV.

TREVM GSZG XLMGVCG, KVIHLMRFH WVHXIRYVW GSV XLOOVTV ORYIZIB ZXXVHH ZMW
HGLIZTV HBHGVN (XOZHH) KILQVXG, Z ORYIZIB KIVHVIEZGRLM KILQVXG,
KIRNZIROB, ZMW DSZG SZH YVVM ZXXLNKORHSVW.  WRIVXGOB UFMWVW YB GSV
XLNNRHHRLM LM KIVHVIEZGRLM ZMW ZXXVHH ZMW YB GSV CVILC XLIKLIZGRLM, DSRXS
SZH KILERWVW Z HRTMRURXZMG ZNLFMG LU SZIWDZIV, GSV XOZHH KILQVXG SZH YVVM
DLIPRMT DRGS Z WVEVOLKNVMG GVZN ZG CVILC GL WVEVOLK Z HLUGDZIV
ZKKORXZGRLM GZROLIVW GL ORYIZIB KIVHVIEZGRLM IVJFRIVNVMGH.  DRGSRM
XLIMVOO, KZIGRXRKZMGH RM GSV KILQVXG SZEV YVVM DLIPRMT QLRMGOB DRGS YLGS
ORYIZIB ZMW RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTRVH.  GSV ULXFH LU GSV KILQVXG SZH YVVM
LM IVULINZGGRMT ZMW HZERMT YLLPH GSZG ZIV RM YIRGGOV XLMWRGRLM.
KVIHLMRFH HSLDVW DLIPHSLK KZIGRXRKZMGH Z YIRGGOV YLLP, ZMW WVHXIRYVW SLD
HFXS YLLPH DVIV GSV IVHFOG LU WVEVOLKNVMGH RM KZKVINZPRMT ZILFMW GSV
YVTRMMRMT LU GSV RMWFHGIRZO IVELOFGRLM.  GSV KZKVINZPRMT KILXVHH DZH
XSZMTVW HL GSZG Z HRTMRURXZMG ZNLFMG LU ZXRW DZH RMGILWFXVW RMGL GSV
ZXGFZO KZKVI RGHVOU, DSRXS WVGVIRLIZGVH ZH RG HRGH LM ORYIZIB HSVOEVH.

LMV LU GSV ZWEZMGZTVH ULI GVXSMLOLTB ZMW ULI GSV XOZHH KILQVXG RH GSZG
GSV RMULINZGRLM RM YIRGGOV YLLPH RH NLHGOB LFG LU XLKBIRTSG ZMW GSFH
LUUVIH ZM LKKLIGFMRGB GL DLIP DRGS NZGVIRZO GSZG IVJFRIVH ORYIZIB
KIVHVIEZGRLM, ZMW GL XIVZGV ZMW DLIP LM ZM RMUIZHGIFXGFIV GL HZEV GSV
NZGVIRZO.  ZXPMLDOVWTRMT GSV UZNRORZIRGB LU GSLHV DLIPRMT RM KIVHVIEZGRLM
DRGS GSRH RMULINZGRLM, KVIHLMRFH MLGVW GSZG HVEVIZO GSRMTH ZIV YVRMT
WLMV:  GSV KIRNZIB KIVHVIEZGRLM GVXSMLOLTB FHVW GLWZB RH KSLGLXLKBRMT LU
YIRGGOV NZGVIRZO.  HZERMT GSV RMGVOOVXGFZO XLMGVMG LU GSV NZGVIRZO RH GSV
NZRM TLZO.  DRGS NRXILURON XLKB, GSV RMGVOOVXGFZO XLMGVMG RH KIVHVIEVW LM
GSV ZHHFNKGRLM GSZG RM GSV UFGFIV GSV RNZTV XZM YV IVULINZGGVW RM ZMB
LGSVI DZB GSZG GSVM VCRHGH.

ZM FMWVIOBRMT ZHHFNKGRLM LU GSV XOZHH KILQVXG UILN GSV YVTRMMRMT DZH
GSZG RG DLFOW WVEVOLK Z MVGDLIP ZKKORXZGRLM.  KILQVXG HGZUU HXZM YLLPH
ZG Z DLIPHGZGRLM OLXZGVW RM GSV ORYIZIB, MVZI GSV YIRGGOV NZGVIRZO.
ZM RNZTV-HVIEVI URORMT HBHGVN RH OLXZGVW ZG Z WRHGZMXV UILN GSZG
DLIPHGZGRLM, ZMW Z KIRMGVI RH OLXZGVW RM ZMLGSVI YFROWRMT.  ZOO LU GSV
NZGVIRZOH WRTRGRAVW ZMW HGLIVW LM GSV RNZTV-URORMT HBHGVN ZIV XZGZOLTVW
RM GSV LM-ORMV XZGZOLTFV.  RM UZXG, Z IVXLIW ULI VZXS LU GSVHV VOVXGILMRX
YLLPH RH HGLIVW RM GSV IORM WZGZYZHV HL GSZG Z IVXLIW VCRHGH LU DSZG RH
RM GSV WRTRGZO ORYIZIB GSILFTSLFG HGZMWZIW XZGZOLTFV KILXVWFIVH.  RM GSV
UFGFIV, IVHVZIXSVIH DLIPRMT UILN GSVRI LDM DLIPHGZGRLMH RM GSVRI LUURXVH,
LI GSVRI MVGDLIPH, DROO SZEV ZXXVHH--DSVIVEVI GSVB NRTSG YV--GSILFTS Z
IVJFVHG HVIEVI YVRMT YFROG RMGL GSV MVD WRTRGZO ORYIZIB.  Z HVXLMW
ZHHFNKGRLM RH GSZG GSV KIVUVIIVW NVZMH LU URMWRMT GSV NZGVIRZO DROO YV YB
OLLPRMT GSILFTS Z XZGZOLTFV.  KVIHLMRFH WVHXIRYVW GSV HXZMMRMT KILXVHH,
DSRXS FHVH Z KILGLGBKV HXZMMVI YVRMT WVEVOLKVW YB CVILC ZMW DSRXS HXZMH Z
EVIB SRTS IVHLOFGRLM RNZTV ZG TIVZG HKVVW.  ZMLGSVI HRTMRURXZMG UVZGFIV,
YVXZFHV GSRH RH Z KIVHVIEZGRLM ZKKORXZGRLM, RH GSV KOZXRMT LU GSV KZTVH

ZOGSLFTS GSV DLIPHSLK WRW MLG RMXOFWV Z HBHGVNZGRX VCZNRMZGRLM LU GSV
NVGSLWH ULI XLMEVIGRMT GVCGH UILN KZKVI (LI UILN UZXHRNROV RNZTVH) RMGL
NZXSRMV-IVZWZYOV ULIN, MVEVIGSVOVHH, EZIRLFH HKVZPVIH GLFXSVW FKLM GSRH
NZGGVI.  ULI VCZNKOV, DVRYVO IVKLIGVW GSZG LXOX SZH VCKVIRNVMGVW DRGS Z
NVITRMT LU NFOGRKOV LKGRXZO XSZIZXGVI IVXLTMRGRLM HBHGVNH GSZG DROO
IVWFXV VIILIH UILN ZM FMZXXVKGZYOV IZGV LU 5 XSZIZXGVIH LFG LU VEVIB
O,000 GL ZM FMZXXVKGZYOV IZGV LU 2 XSZIZXGVIH LFG LU VEVIB O,000.

KZNVOZ ZMWIV KIVHVMGVW ZM LEVIERVD LU MZO'H GVCG WRTRGRAZGRLM KILTIZN ZMW
QFWRGS ARWZI WRHXFHHVW GSV GVXSMRXZO WVGZROH.  ARWZI VCKOZRMVW SLD MZO
KFIXSZHVW SZIWDZIV ZMW HLUGDZIV XZKZYOV LU KVIULINRMT LKGRXZO XSZIZXGVI
IVXLTMRGRLM (LXI) ZMW GVCG XLMEVIHRLM ZMW FHVW RGH LDM HGZUU GL XLMEVIG
GVCGH.  GSV KILXVHH, ARWZI HZRW, IVJFRIVW VCGVMHREV VWRGRMT ZMW KILQVXG
HGZUU ULFMW GSVNHVOEVH XLMHRWVIRMT ZOGVIMZGREVH, RMXOFWRMT IVPVBRMT
ZMW/LI XIVZGRMT ZYHGIZXGH LI HFNNZIRVH LU GVCGH.  MZO IVXPLMVW XLHGH ZG
$7 KVI KZTV.  YB DZB LU XLMGIZHG, IRXPB VIDZB VCKOZRMVW GSZG ZNVIRXZM
NVNLIB SZW WVXRWVW UILN GSV HGZIG GL XLMGIZXG LFG XLMEVIHRLM GL VCGVIMZO
HVIERXV YFIVZFH.  GSV XIRGVIRZ FHVW GL HVOVXG GSVHV XLMGIZXGLIH DVIV XLHG
ZMW JFZORGB LU IVHFOGH, ZH LKKLHVW GL NVGSLWH LU XLMEVIHRLM.  VIDZB MLGVW
GSZG SRHGLIRXZO WLXFNVMGH LI YLLPH LUGVM WL MLG OVMW GSVNHVOEVH GL LXI.
YLFMW NZGVIRZOH IVKIVHVMG Z HKVXRZO KILYOVN.  RM SVI VCKVIRVMXV, JFZORGB
XLMGILO--RMHKVXGRMT RMXLNRMT NZGVIRZOH, XLFMGRMT VIILIH RM HZNKOVH--KLHVW
GSV NLHG GRNV-XLMHFNRMT ZHKVXG LU XLMGIZXGRMT LFG XLMEVIHRLM.  VIDZB
IVXPLMVW ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB'H XLHGH ZG $4 KVI KZTV, YFG XZFGRLMVW GSZG UVDVI
XLHG-VOVNVMGH SZW YVVM RMXOFWVW GSZM RM MZO'H URTFIV.


LKGRLMH ULI WRHHVNRMZGRLM

GSV GLKRX LU WRHHVNRMZGRLM KILKVI VNVITVW ZG EZIRLFH KLRMGH WFIRMT GSV
DLIPHSLK.  ZG GSV HVHHRLM WVELGVW GL MZGRLMZO ZMW RMGVIMZGRLMZO XLNKFGVI
MVGDLIPH, OBMXS, SLDZIW YVHHVI, ILMZOW OZIHVM, ZMW VWDRM YILDMIRTT
SRTSORTSGVW GSV ERIGFVH LU RMGVIMVG GLWZB ZMW LU GSV MVGDLIP GSZG DROO
VELOEV UILN RMGVIMVG.  ORHGVMVIH XLFOW WRHXVIM RM GSVHV MZIIZGREVH Z
ERHRLM LU ZM RMULINZGRLM WVNLXIZXB RM DSRXS NROORLMH LU XRGRAVMH UIVVOB
URMW ZMW FHV DSZG GSVB MVVW.  OBMXS MLGVW GSZG Z OZXP LU HGZMWZIWH
RMSRYRGH WRHHVNRMZGRMT NFOGRNVWRZ LM GSV MVGDLIP, Z GLKRX ZOHL WRHXFHHVW
YB YVHHVI.  OZIHVM ZWWIVHHVW GSV RHHFVH LU MVGDLIP HXZOZYRORGB ZMW
NLWFOZIRGB ZMW XLNNVMGVW FKLM GSV WRUURXFOGB LU ZMGRXRKZGRMT GSV VUUVXGH
LU TILDGS RM LIWVIH LU NZTMRGFWV.  YILDMIRTT GZOPVW ZYLFG GSV ZYRORGB LU
KZXPVG IZWRL GL KILERWV XVIGZRM ORMPH RM Z MVGDLIP DRGSLFG GSV MVVW ULI
DRIRMT.  SLDVEVI, GSV KIVHVMGVIH ZOHL XZOOVW ZGGVMGRLM GL GSV
HSLIGXLNRMTH ZMW RMXLMTIFRGRVH LU KIVHVMG-WZB XLNKFGVI MVGDLIPH.  ULI
VCZNKOV:  1) MVGDLIP FHV RH TILDRMT WIZNZGRXZOOB, YFG NFXS MVGDLIP
GIZUURX XLMHRHGH LU KVIHLMZO XLNNFMRXZGRLM (V-NZRO).  2) OZITV YLWRVH LU
RMULINZGRLM ZIV ZEZROZYOV, YFG Z FHVI'H ZYRORGB GL HVZIXS ZXILHH GSVRI
VMGRIVGB RH ORNRGVW.  3) GSVIV ZIV HRTMRURXZMG IVHLFIXVH ULI HXRVMXV ZMW
GVXSMLOLTB, YFG UVD MVGDLIP HLFIXVH KILERWV XLMGVMG RM GSV SFNZMRGRVH.
4) NZXSRMV-IVZWZYOV GVCGH ZIV XLNNLMKOZXV, YFG GSV XZKZYRORGB LU GSV
HBHGVN GL WVZO DRGS RNZTVH (OVG ZOLMV LGSVI NVWRZ ULINZGH) OZTH YVSRMW.
Z TORNKHV LU Z NFOGRNVWRZ UFGFIV ULI MVGDLIPH, SLDVEVI, DZH KILERWVW YB
NZIRZ OVYILM RM SVI LEVIERVD LU GSV LMORMV QLFIMZO LU XFIIVMG XORMRXZO
GIRZOH (LQXXG), ZMW GSV KILXVHH LU HXSLOZIOB KFYORHSRMT LM-ORMV.

GSV XLMGIZHGRMT ULIN LU GSV XW-ILN WRHP DZH MVEVI HBHGVNZGRXZOOB
ZMZOBAVW, YFG ZGGVMWVVH XLFOW TOVZM ZM RNKIVHHRLM UILN HVEVIZO LU GSV
HSLD-ZMW-GVOO KIVHVMGZGRLMH.  GSV KVIHVFH ZMW ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB VCZNKOVH
WVNLMHGIZGVW IVXVMGOB KFYORHSVW WRHPH, DSROV GSV WVHXIRKGRLMH LU GSV
RYBXFH EVIHRLM LU GSV KZKVIH LU TVLITV DZHSRMTGLM ZMW XSZWDBXP-SVZOVB'H
KZGILOLTRZ OZGRMZ WZGZYZHV (KOW) GLOW LU WRHPH GL XLNV.  ZXXLIWRMT GL
VIRX XZOZOFXZ, KOW'H KIRMXRKZO ULXFH SZH YVVM LM XLMEVIGRMT QZXJFVH-KZFO
NRTMV'H WVURMRGREV XLOOVXGRLM LU OZGRM GVCGH GL NZXSRMV-IVZWZYOV ULIN.
ZOGSLFTS VEVIBLMV XLFOW HSZIV GSV MVGDLIP ZWELXZGVH' VMGSFHRZHN ULI ZM
LM-ORMV UFGFIV, GSV KLHHRYRORGB LU ILOORMT FK LMV'H HOVVEVH ULI Z HVHHRLM
DRGS Z XW-ILN XLMGZRMRMT YLGS GVCGFZO NZGVIRZOH ZMW Z KLDVIUFO IVGIRVEZO
VMTRMV NZWV GSV WRHP HVVN ZM ZKKVZORMT EVHHVO RMWVVW.  GSV LEVIZOO
WRHXFHHRLM HFTTVHGVW GSZG GSV GIZMHRGRLM UILN XW-ILN GL LM-ORMV MVGDLIPVW
ZXXVHH NZB KILEV UZI HOLDVI ZMW NLIV WRUURXFOG GSZM SZH YVVM ZMGRXRKZGVW.


DSL ZIV GSV FHVIH ZMW DSZG WL GSVB WL?

ZOGSLFTS XLMXVIMVW DRGS GSV GVXSMRXZORGRVH LU KILWFXGRLM, GSV DLIPHSLK
MVEVI OLHG HRTSG LU GSV KFIKLHVH ZMW FHVH LU VOVXGILMRX EVIHRLMH LU
GVCGFZO NZGVIRZOH.  ZH MLGVW ZYLEV, GSLHV RMGVIVHGVW RM RNZTRMT WRHXFHHVW
GSV KILYOVNZGRXZO NZGGVI LU WRTRGZO KIVHVIEZGRLM, DSROV GSV GVR KILKLMVMGH
WVHXIRYVW SLD NZXSRMV-IVZWZYOV GVCGH XZM YV FHVW RM IVHVZIXS.  GSRH OZGGVI
GLKRX IVXVREVW GSLILFTS GIVZGNVMG RM GSV KZKVI IVZW YB ZEIZ NRXSVOHLM.
HSV KOZXVW GSV KSVMLNVMLM LU VOVXGILMRX GVCGH DRGSRM GSV XLMGVCG LU
YILZWVI GIVMWH RM RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTB ZMW HXSLOZIOB XLNNFMRXZGRLM.

ZNLMT LGSVI GSRMTH, NRXSVOHLM WVHXIRYVW LM-ORMV XLMUVIVMXVH GSZG
IVKIVHVMG Z ERTLILFH ZMW RNKLIGZMG RMGVOOVXGFZO ULIFN ULI XVIGZRM
WRHXRKORMVH.  RMGVIMVG MLD XZIIRVH NLIV GSZM 700 XLMUVIVMXVH, DRGS ZYLFG
80 KVIXVMG LU GSVHV WVELGVW GL GLKRXH RM GSV HLXRZO HXRVMXVH ZMW GSV
SFNZMRGRVH.  LGSVI HXSLOZIH FHV LM-ORMV MVGDLIPH ULI "WRHGZMXV OVZIMRMT."
NVZMDSROV, GSVIV SZH YVVM Z GIVNVMWLFH TILDGS RM VMW-FHVI XLNKFGRMT;
KILUVHHLIH GLWZB ZIV OVHH ORPVOB GSZM GSVRI KIVWVXVHHLIH GL ZHP GSV
XZNKFH XLNKFGVI XVMGVI GL KILXVHH GSVRI WZGZ.  VOVXGILMRX GVCGH ZIV LMV
PVB GL GSVHV HLKSRHGRXZGVW ZKKORXZGRLMH, NRXSVOHLM IVKLIGVW, ZMW NLIV ZMW
NLIV HXSLOZIH RM GSV SFNZMRGRVH MLD DLIP RM ZM LM-ORMV VMERILMNVMG.
GLDZIW GSV VMW LU GSV DLIPHSLK, NRXSZVO OVHP KIVHVMGVW Z XLILOOZIB GL
NRXSVOHLM'H GZOP, IVKLIGRMT GSV IVHFOGH LU ZM VCKVIRNVMG GSZG XLNKZIVW
GSV DLIP LU LMV TILFK LU XSVNRHGIB HGFWVMGH FHRMT GIZWRGRLMZO KIRMGVW
GVCGH ZMW GDL TILFKH FHRMT VOVXGILMRX HLFIXVH.  GSV VCKVIRNVMG
WVNLMHGIZGVW GSZG RM GSV VEVMG LMV WLVH MLG PMLD DSZG GL IVZW, LMV MVVWH
GSV VOVXGILMRX HBHGVNH; GSV VOVXGILMRX HBHGVNH SLOW ML ZWEZMGZTV ZG GSV
NLNVMG RU LMV PMLDH DSZG GL IVZW, YFG MVRGSVI WL GSVB RNKLHV Z KVMZOGB.

WZOB KILERWVW ZM ZMVXWLGZO ZXXLFMG LU GSV IVELOFGRLMRARMT RNKZXG LU GSV
MVD GVXSMLOLTB LM SRH KIVERLFH NVGSLWH LU IVHVZIXS RM GSV URVOW LU XOZHHRXH.
SRH ZXXLFMG, YB VCGIZKLOZGRLM, HVIEVW GL ROOFHGIZGV RM KZIG GSV ZITFNVMGH
NZWV YB NRXSVOHLM XLMXVIMRMT GSV KLHRGREV VUUVXGH LU GSV HFWWVM ZMW IZWRXZO
GIZMHULINZGRLM YVRMT DILFTSG RM GSV DZBH HXSLOZIH DLIP.

HFHZM EVXXRZ ZMW QLZMMV UIVVNZM WVORMVZGVW GSV FHV LU VOVXGILMRX
NZGVIRZOH LFGHRWV GSV FMREVIHRGB.  GSV NLHG RMGVIVHGRMT ZHKVXG LU GSVRI
FHV, UIVVNZM HZRW, XLFOW YV HVVM ZH Z KZIZWLC:  GVZXSVIH RM VOVNVMGZIB
ZMW HVXLMWZIB HXSLLOH IVJFVHGVW ZXXVHH GL KIRNZIB HLFIXV NZGVIRZOH YFG,
ZG GSV HZNV GRNV, ULFMW GSZG "KIRNZIRMVHH" RGHVOU NZWV GSVHV NZGVIRZOH
WRUURXFOG ULI GSVRI HGFWVMGH GL FHV.


LGSVI GLKRXH

NZIBYVGS KVGVIH IVERVDVW XLKBIRTSG OZD RM GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH ZMW LUUVIVW
ZWERXV WFIRMT Z OREVOB WRHXFHHRLM LU GSRH HFYQVXG.  YFG FMXVIGZRMGB
IVNZRMH XLMXVIMRMT GSV KIRXV LU XLKBIRTSG RM Z WRTRGZO NVWRFN, YVXZFHV Z
HLOFGRLM IVNZRMH GL YV DLIPVW LFG XLMXVIMRMT NZMZTVNVMG ZMW HBMGSVHRH LU
XLKBIRTSGVW ZMW LFG-LU-XLKBIRTSG KRVXVH LU Z WZGZYZHV.

ZH NLWVIZGLI LU GSV URMZO HVHHRLM LU GSV DLIPHSLK, KILHHVI TRUULIW WRIVXGVW
WRHXFHHRLM GL UFGFIV XLFIHVH LU ZXGRLM ZMW GSV KLGVMGRZO ILOV LU OX RM
ZWEZMXRMT GSVN.  ZNLMT GSV IVXLNNVMWZGRLMH GSZG VNVITVW DVIV GSV ULOOLDRMT:

     * DLIPHSLK KZIGRXRKZMGH HSLFOW 1) YVTRM GL GSRMP ZYLFG DLIPRMT
     DRGS RNZTV NZGVIRZO, YFG HGIFXGFIV ZMW WRTRGRAV RG RM HFXS Z
     DZB GSZG ZG Z OZGVI HGZTV RG XZM YV RMGVIKIVGVW RMGL GVCG, ZMW
     2) URMW Z XLNNLM DZB GL YFROW GVCG ZMW RNZTVH GLTVGSVI HL GSZG
     GSVB XZM YV FHVW QLRMGOB ZG HLNV HGZTV RM GSV UFGFIV, DRGS
     ZKKILKIRZGV MVGDLIP HFKKLIG, YVXZFHV GSZG RH SLD FHVIH DROO DZMG
     GL ZXXVHH GSVHV NZGVIRZOH.  GSV ORYIZIB NRTSG VMXLFIZTV ZGGVNKGH
     GL YIRMT GLTVGSVI KVLKOV DSL ZIV DLIPRMT LM GVCGH ZMW RNZTVH.

     * Z MVGDLIP EVIHRLM LU ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB HSLFOW YV WVEVOLKVW LI
     XLMHRWVIZGRLM HSLFOW YV TREVM GL NZPRMT GSV WZGZ RM RG
     ZEZROZYOV GL KVLKOV RMGVIVHGVW RM WLRMT MVGDLIP NFOGRNVWRZ.
     TREVM GSV XFIIVMG WVZIGS LU WRTRGZO WZGZ GSZG RH ZKKVZORMT ZMW
     FMVMXFNYVIVW YB VCGIVNVOB XLNKOVC IRTSGH KILYOVNH, WVEVOLKRMT Z
     MVGDLIP EVIHRLM LU ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB XLFOW WL NFXS GL SVOK NZPV
     MVGDLIP NFOGRNVWRZ Z IVZORGB.

     * XLMXVIMRMT GSV GSLIMB RHHFV LU VOVXGILMRX WVKLHRG, OX HSLFOW
     RMRGRZGV Z XZGZOBGRX KILXVHH RM GVINH LU WRHGIRYFGVW
     IVHKLMHRYRORGB, GSZG RH, YIRMT GLTVGSVI GSV WRHGIRYFGVW
     LITZMRAZGRLMH ZMW HVG FK Z HGFWB TILFK GL OLLP ZG ZOO GSV
     RHHFVH IVOZGVW GL VOVXGILMRX WVKLHRG ZMW HVV DSVIV DV ZH Z
     MZGRLM HSLFOW NLEV.  ULI VCZNKOV, OX NRTSG ZGGVNKG GL KVIHFZWV
     LMV NZQLI ORYIZIB RM VZXS HGZGV GL WVZO DRGS RGH HGZGV
     VJFREZOVMG KFYORHSVI, DSRXS NRTSG KILWFXV Z XLLKVIZGREV KILQVXG
     GSZG DLFOW YV VJFRGZYOB WRHGIRYFGVW ZILFMW GSV XLFMGIB, ZMW LMV
     RM DSRXS OX DLFOW YV WVZORMT DRGS Z NRMRNZO MFNYVI LU KFYORHSVIH
     ZMW NRMRNZO XLKBIRTSG KILYOVNH.  OX NFHG ZOHL WVZO DRGS GSV
     XLMXVKG LU LM-ORMV KFYORHSRMT, WVGVINRMRMT, ZNLMT LGSVI GSRMTH,
     SLD HVIRZOH HFXS ZH LQXXG NRTSG YV WVKLHRGVW ULI XLKBIRTSG.

     * HRMXV Z MFNYVI LU KILQVXGH ZIV KOZMMRMT GL XZIIB LFG
     KIVHVIEZGRLM YB XIVZGRMT WRTRGZO RNZTVH GSZG DROO VMW FK RM
     LM-ORMV LI MVZI-ORMV HGLIZTV ZG HLNV RMHGRGFGRLM, OX NRTSG KOZB
     Z SVOKUFO ILOV, ZG OVZHG RM GSV MVZI GVIN, YB ZXXVOVIZGRMT SLD
     GL XZGZOLT GSZG RMULINZGRLM RMGL GSV IVHVZIXS ORYIZIB RMULINZGRLM
     MVGDLIP (IORM) ZMW GSVM RMGL LXOX, HL GSZG RG DLFOW YV ZXXVHHRYOV.
     GSRH DLFOW IVWFXV GSV KLHHRYRORGB LU NFOGRKOV RMHGRGFGRLMH WRTRGRARMT
     GSV HZNV DLIP.


XLMXOFHRLM

GSV DLIPHSLK DZH EZOFZYOV YVXZFHV RG YILFTSG GLTVGSVI KZIGRHZMH UILN
EZIRLFH TILFKH ZMW KILERWVW ZM LXXZHRLM GL XLNKZIV TLZOH ZMW NVGSLWH.
GSV NLIV XLNNRGGVW KZIGRHZMH UIVJFVMGOB XLNNFMRXZGV DRGS LGSVIH RM GSVRI
TILFKH, YFG OVHH LUGVM ZXILHH TILFK YLFMWZIRVH.  GSV DLIPHSLK DZH ZOHL
EZOFZYOV GL ZGGVMWVVH--RMXOFWRMT GSLHV RMELOEVW DRGS ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB--DSL
XZNV OVHH XLNNRGGVW GL KZIGRXFOZI ZKKILZXSVH LI XLMXVKGH.  GSVHV
ZGGVMWVVH OVZIMVW Z TIVZG WVZO, ZMW KOZM GL HVOVXG ZMW VNKOLB VOVNVMGH LU
RNZTRMT, GVCG-XLWRMT, ZMW MVGDLIPVW WRHGIRYFGRLM GSZG HFRG GSVRI
IVHKVXGREV KILQVXGH ZMW KFIKLHVH.

HGROO, IVZORGB IVZIH RGH FTOB SVZW:  ML YIVZPGSILFTS SZH YVVM ZXSRVEVW.
LM GSV RNZTRMT HRWV, LMV XLMUILMGH Z KILORUVIZGRLM LU XLNKVGRMT
WZGZ-RMGVIXSZMTV HGZMWZIWH ZMW Z OZXP LU XLMHVMHFH LM GSV ILOV LU WRTRGZO
UZXHRNROVH RM KIVHVIEZGRLM.  RM GSV IVZON LU NZXSRMV-IVZWZYOV GVCGH, LMV
VMXLFMGVIH Z IVZHLMZYOB NZGFIV HGZMWZIW YFG NVGSLWLOLTRXZO WRUURXFOGRVH
ZMW SRTS XLHGH.  GSVHV OZGGVI KILYOVNH, LU XLFIHV, IVKIVHVMG Z HKVXRZO
RNKVWRNVMG GL GSV WVHRIV, ZH RG RH HLNVGRNVH VCKIVHHVW RM GSV KLKFOZI
KIVHH, "GL KFG GSV [XLMGVMGH LU GSV] ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH LM ORMV."  RM
GSV DLIWH LU LMV KZIGRXRKZMG, GSVIV DZH "ML HLOFGRLM GL GSV VXLMLNRX
KILYOVNH--GSV KILQVXGH GSZG ZIV LFG GSVIV ZIV HFIERERMT, YFG RG RH TLRMT
GL YV Z OLG LU DLIP GL GIZMHULIN GSV RMULINZGRLM RMWFHGIB, ZMW HL UZI GSV
RMEVHGNVMG GL WL GSZG RH MLG ULIGSXLNRMT" (OVHP, KVI ORGGVIZH).


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                               KILXVVWRMTH


DVOXLNV

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
TRUULIW * LIRTRM LU DLIPHSLK RM XFIIVMG ORYIZIRZM'H WVHRIV GL NZPV OX'H
XLOOVXGRLMH NLIV DRWVOB ZEZROZYOV * WVHRWVIZGZ ZIRHRMT UILN GSV KILHKVXG
LU TIVZGVI RMGVIXLMMVXGVWMVHH *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

ZUGVI DVOXLNRMT KZIGRXRKZMGH LM YVSZOU LU GSV ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH,
ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB (ZN), ZMW GSV MZGRLMZO WVNLMHGIZGRLM OZY, KILHHVI
TRUULIW, WRIVXGLI ULI HXSLOZIOB KILTIZNH, ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH, OLXZGVW
GSV LIRTRM LU GSV DLIPHSLK LM VOVXGILMRX GVCGH RM Z XLMEVIHZGRLM SV SZW
SZW XLMHRWVIZYOB NLIV GSZM Z BVZI ZTL DRGS XZIO UOVRHXSSZFVI XLMXVIMRMT
HLNV LU GSV RHHFVH UZXVW YB ZN.  LM GSV ZHHFNKGRLM GSZG MFNVILFH LGSVI
KVLKOV DVIV ZHPRMT GSV HZNV JFVHGRLMH, GSV WVXRHRLM DZH NZWV GL YIRMT
GLTVGSVI ZH NZMB LU GSVHV KVLKOV ZH KLHHRYOV GL ZHP GSV HZNV JFVHGRLMH
GLTVGSVI.  RM Z WVVKVI HVMHV, TRUULIW HZRW, GSV LIRTRM LU GSV DLIPHSLK
OZB RM GSV WVHRIV LU GSV XFIIVMG ORYIZIRZM LU XLMTIVHH, QZNVH S.
YROORMTGLM, GL NZPV GSV XLOOVXGRLMH LU GSV ORYIZIB, VHKVXRZOOB GSLHV
LUUVIRMT FMRJFV LI FMFHFZO GVHGRNLMB LM ZHKVXGH LU GSV ZNVIRXZM
VCKVIRVMXV, ZEZROZYOV GL Z NFXS DRWVI XRIXOV LU FHVIH GSZM GSLHV UVD
KVLKOV DSL XZM XLNV GL DZHSRMTGLM GL FHV GSVN.  GSRH NVZMG GSZG GSV
VNKSZHRH LU ZN, UILN GSV LFGHVG, SZH YVVM LM ZIXSREZO XLOOVXGRLMH LU GSV
YZHRX NZGVIRZO, ZMW LM NZPRMT GSVHV XLOOVXGRLMH GSVNHVOEVH ZEZROZYOV,
IZGSVI GSZM HVOVXGVW LI SVZEROB VWRGVW KILWFXGH.

UILN ZN'H VNKSZHRH ULOOLDVW GSV JFVHGRLMH DRGS DSRXS GSV DLIPHSLK YVTZM:
DSL DROO FHV GSVHV NZGVIRZOH, ZMW RM DSZG ULIN DROO GSVB DRHS GL FHV
GSVN.  YFG ZM VEVM OZITVI RHHFV WVHVIERMT NVMGRLM, RM TRUULIW'H ERVD, DZH
GSV KSVMLNVMZO TILDGS RM RMGVIMVG XLMMVXGRERGB.  SV VCKIVHHVW GSV SLKV
GSZG GSV KILHKVXG LU TIVZGVI RMGVIXLMMVXGVWMVHH GSZM VEVI YVULIV DLFOW
OVZW GL:  1) NFXS NLIV XLLKVIZGREV ZMW NFGFZOOB HFKKLIGREV VMWVZELIH; 2)
