be used with some sort of a document feeder, but because of this
application that is not feasible.  Further, because CLASS is a
preservation application, after the paper replacement is made there, a
very careful quality control check is performed.  An original book is
compared to the printed copy and verification is made, before proceeding,
that all of the image, all of the information, has been captured.  Then,
a new library book is produced:  The printed images are rebound by a
commercial binder and a new book is returned to the shelf.
Significantly, the books returned to the library shelves are beautiful
and useful replacements on acid-free paper that should last a long time,
in effect, the equivalent of preservation photocopies.  Thus, the project
has a library of digital books.  In essence, CLASS is scanning and
storing books as 600 dot-per-inch bit-mapped images, compressed using
Group 4 CCITT (i.e., the French acronym for International Consultative
Committee for Telegraph and Telephone) compression.  They are stored as
TIFF files on an optical filing system that is composed of a database
used for searching and locating the books and an optical jukebox that
stores 64 twelve-inch platters.  A very-high-resolution printed copy of
these books at 600 dots per inch is created, using a Xerox DocuTech
printer to make the paper replacements on acid-free paper.

PERSONIUS maintained that the CLASS Project presents an opportunity to
introduce people to books as digital images by using a paper medium.
Books are returned to the shelves while people are also given the ability
to print on demand--to make their own copies of books.  (PERSONIUS
distributed copies of an engineering journal published by engineering
students at Cornell around 1900 as an example of what a print-on-demand
copy of material might be like.  This very cheap copy would be available
to people to use for their own research purposes and would bridge the gap
between an electronic work and the paper that readers like to have.)
PERSONIUS then attempted to illustrate a very early prototype of
networked access to this digital library.  Xerox Corporation has
developed a prototype of a view station that can send images across the
network to be viewed.

The particular library brought down for demonstration contained two
mathematics books.  CLASS is developing and will spend the next year
developing an application that allows people at workstations to browse
the books.  Thus, CLASS is developing a browsing tool, on the assumption
that users do not want to read an entire book from a workstation, but
would prefer to be able to look through and decide if they would like to
have a printed copy of it.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Re retrieval software * "Digital file copyright" * Scanning
rate during production * Autosegmentation * Criteria employed in
selecting books for scanning * Compression and decompression of images *
OCR not precluded *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the question-and-answer period that followed her presentation,
PERSONIUS made these additional points:

     * Re retrieval software, Cornell is developing a Unix-based server
     as well as clients for the server that support multiple platforms
     (Macintosh, IBM and Sun workstations), in the hope that people from
     any of those platforms will retrieve books; a further operating
     assumption is that standard interfaces will be used as much as
     possible, where standards can be put in place, because CLASS
     considers this retrieval software a library application and would
     like to be able to look at material not only at Cornell but at other
     institutions.

     * The phrase "digital file copyright by Cornell University" was
     added at the advice of Cornell's legal staff with the caveat that it
     probably would not hold up in court.  Cornell does not want people
     to copy its books and sell them but would like to keep them
     available for use in a library environment for library purposes.

     * In production the scanner can scan about 300 pages per hour,
     capturing 600 dots per inch.

     * The Xerox software has filters to scan halftone material and avoid
     the moire patterns that occur when halftone material is scanned.
     Xerox has been working on hardware and software that would enable
     the scanner itself to recognize this situation and deal with it
     appropriately--a kind of autosegmentation that would enable the
     scanner to handle halftone material as well as text on a single page.

     * The books subjected to the elaborate process described above were
     selected because CLASS is a preservation project, with the first 500
     books selected coming from Cornell's mathematics collection, because
     they were still being heavily used and because, although they were
     in need of preservation, the mathematics library and the mathematics
     faculty were uncomfortable having them microfilmed.  (They wanted a
     printed copy.)  Thus, these books became a logical choice for this
     project.  Other books were chosen by the project's selection committees
     for experiments with the technology, as well as to meet a demand or need.

     * Images will be decompressed before they are sent over the line; at
     this time they are compressed and sent to the image filing system
     and then sent to the printer as compressed images; they are returned
     to the workstation as compressed 600-dpi images and the workstation
     decompresses and scales them for display--an inefficient way to
     access the material though it works quite well for printing and
     other purposes.

     * CLASS is also decompressing on Macintosh and IBM, a slow process
     right now.  Eventually, compression and decompression will take
     place on an image conversion server.  Trade-offs will be made, based
     on future performance testing, concerning where the file is
     compressed and what resolution image is sent.

     * OCR has not been precluded; images are being stored that have been
     scanned at a high resolution, which presumably would suit them well
     to an OCR process.  Because the material being scanned is about 100
     years old and was printed with less-than-ideal technologies, very
     early and preliminary tests have not produced good results.  But the
     project is capturing an image that is of sufficient resolution to be
     subjected to OCR in the future.  Moreover, the system architecture
     and the system plan have a logical place to store an OCR image if it
     has been captured.  But that is not being done now.

                                 ******

SESSION III.  DISTRIBUTION, NETWORKS, AND NETWORKING:  OPTIONS FOR
DISSEMINATION

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
ZICH * Issues pertaining to CD-ROMs * Options for publishing in CD-ROM *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Robert ZICH, special assistant to the associate librarian for special
projects, Library of Congress, and moderator of this session, first noted
the blessed but somewhat awkward circumstance of having four very
distinguished people representing networks and networking or at least
leaning in that direction, while lacking anyone to speak from the
strongest possible background in CD-ROMs.  ZICH expressed the hope that
members of the audience would join the discussion.  He stressed the
subtitle of this particular session, "Options for Dissemination," and,
concerning CD-ROMs, the importance of determining when it would be wise
to consider dissemination in CD-ROM versus networks.  A shopping list of
issues pertaining to CD-ROMs included:  the grounds for selecting
commercial publishers, and in-house publication where possible versus
nonprofit or government publication.  A similar list for networks
included:  determining when one should consider dissemination through a
network, identifying the mechanisms or entities that exist to place items
on networks, identifying the pool of existing networks, determining how a
producer  would choose between networks, and identifying the elements of
a business arrangement in a network.

Options for publishing in CD-ROM:  an outside publisher versus
self-publication.  If an outside publisher is used, it can be nonprofit,
such as the Government Printing Office (GPO) or the National Technical
Information Service (NTIS), in the case of government.  The pros and cons
associated with employing an outside publisher are obvious.  Among the
pros, there is no trouble getting accepted.  One pays the bill and, in
effect, goes one's way.  Among the cons, when one pays an outside
publisher to perform the work, that publisher will perform the work it is
obliged to do, but perhaps without the production expertise and skill in
marketing and dissemination that some would seek.  There is the body of
commercial publishers that do possess that kind of expertise in
distribution and marketing but that obviously are selective.  In
self-publication, one exercises full control, but then one must handle
matters such as distribution and marketing.  Such are some of the options
for publishing in the case of CD-ROM.

In the case of technical and design issues, which are also important,
there are many matters which many at the Workshop already knew a good
deal about:  retrieval system requirements and costs, what to do about
images, the various capabilities and platforms, the trade-offs between
cost and performance, concerns about local-area networkability,
interoperability, etc.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
LYNCH * Creating networked information is different from using networks
as an access or dissemination vehicle * Networked multimedia on a large
scale does not yet work * Typical CD-ROM publication model a two-edged
sword * Publishing information on a CD-ROM in the present world of
immature standards * Contrast between CD-ROM and network pricing *
Examples demonstrated earlier in the day as a set of insular information
gems * Paramount need to link databases * Layering to become increasingly
necessary * Project NEEDS and the issues of information reuse and active
versus passive use * X-Windows as a way of differentiating between
network access and networked information * Barriers to the distribution
of networked multimedia information * Need for good, real-time delivery
protocols * The question of presentation integrity in client-server
computing in the academic world * Recommendations for producing multimedia
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Clifford LYNCH, director, Library Automation, University of California,
opened his talk with the general observation that networked information
constituted a difficult and elusive topic because it is something just
starting to develop and not yet fully understood.  LYNCH contended that
creating genuinely networked information was different from using
networks as an access or dissemination vehicle and was more sophisticated
and more subtle.  He invited the members of the audience to extrapolate,
from what they heard about the preceding demonstration projects, to what
sort of a world of electronics information--scholarly, archival,
cultural, etc.--they wished to end up with ten or fifteen years from now.
LYNCH suggested that to extrapolate directly from these projects would
produce unpleasant results.

Putting the issue of CD-ROM in perspective before getting into
generalities on networked information, LYNCH observed that those engaged
in multimedia today who wish to ship a product, so to say, probably do
not have much choice except to use CD-ROM:  networked multimedia on a
large scale basically does not yet work because the technology does not
exist.  For example, anybody who has tried moving images around over the
Internet knows that this is an exciting touch-and-go process, a
fascinating and fertile area for experimentation, research, and
development, but not something that one can become deeply enthusiastic
about committing to production systems at this time.

This situation will change, LYNCH said.  He differentiated CD-ROM from
the practices that have been followed up to now in distributing data on
CD-ROM.  For LYNCH the problem with CD-ROM is not its portability or its
slowness but the two-edged sword of having the retrieval application and
the user interface inextricably bound up with the data, which is the
typical CD-ROM publication model.  It is not a case of publishing data
but of distributing a typically stand-alone, typically closed system,
all--software, user interface, and data--on a little disk.  Hence, all
the between-disk navigational issues as well as the impossibility in most
cases of integrating data on one disk with that on another.  Most CD-ROM
retrieval software does not network very gracefully at present.  However,
in the present world of immature standards and lack of understanding of
what network information is or what the ground rules are for creating or
using it, publishing information on a CD-ROM does add value in a very
real sense.

LYNCH drew a contrast between CD-ROM and network pricing and in doing so
highlighted something bizarre in information pricing.  A large
institution such as the University of California has vendors who will
offer to sell information on CD-ROM for a price per year in four digits,
but for the same data (e.g., an abstracting and indexing database) on
magnetic tape, regardless of how many people may use it concurrently,
will quote a price in six digits.

What is packaged with the CD-ROM in one sense adds value--a complete
access system, not just raw, unrefined information--although it is not
generally perceived that way.  This is because the access software,
although it adds value, is viewed by some people, particularly in the
university environment where there is a very heavy commitment to
networking, as being developed in the wrong direction.

Given that context, LYNCH described the examples demonstrated as a set of
insular information gems--Perseus, for example, offers nicely linked
information, but would be very difficult to integrate with other
databases, that is, to link together seamlessly with other source files
from other sources.  It resembles an island, and in this respect is
similar to numerous stand-alone projects that are based on videodiscs,
that is, on the single-workstation concept.

As scholarship evolves in a network environment, the paramount need will
be to link databases.  We must link personal databases to public
databases, to group databases, in fairly seamless ways--which is
extremely difficult in the environments under discussion with copies of
databases proliferating all over the place.

The notion of layering also struck LYNCH as lurking in several of the
projects demonstrated.  Several databases in a sense constitute
information archives without a significant amount of navigation built in.
Educators, critics, and others will want a layered structure--one that
defines or links paths through the layers to allow users to reach
specific points.  In LYNCH's view, layering will become increasingly
necessary, and not just within a single resource but across resources
(e.g., tracing mythology and cultural themes across several classics
databases as well as a database of Renaissance culture).  This ability to
organize resources, to build things out of multiple other things on the
network or select pieces of it, represented for LYNCH one of the key
aspects of network information.

Contending that information reuse constituted another significant issue,
LYNCH commended to the audience's attention Project NEEDS (i.e., National
Engineering Education Delivery System).  This project's objective is to
produce a database of engineering courseware as well as the components
that can be used to develop new courseware.  In a number of the existing
applications, LYNCH said, the issue of reuse (how much one can take apart
and reuse in other applications) was not being well considered.  He also
raised the issue of active versus passive use, one aspect of which  is
how much information will be manipulated locally by users.  Most people,
he argued, may do a little browsing and then will wish to print.  LYNCH
was uncertain how these resources would be used by the vast majority of
users in the network environment.

LYNCH next said a few words about X-Windows as a way of differentiating
between network access and networked information.  A number of the
applications demonstrated at the Workshop could be rewritten to use X
across the network, so that one could run them from any X-capable device-
-a workstation, an X terminal--and transact with a database across the
network.  Although this opens up access a little, assuming one has enough
network to handle it, it does not provide an interface to develop a
program that conveniently integrates information from multiple databases.
X is a viewing technology that has limits.  In a real sense, it is just a
graphical version of remote log-in across the network.  X-type applications
represent only one step in the progression towards real access.

LYNCH next discussed barriers to the distribution of networked multimedia
information.  The heart of the problem is a lack of standards to provide
the ability for computers to talk to each other, retrieve information,
and shuffle it around fairly casually.  At the moment, little progress is
being made on standards for networked information; for example, present
standards do not cover images, digital voice, and digital video.  A
useful tool kit of exchange formats for basic texts is only now being
assembled.  The synchronization of content streams (i.e., synchronizing a
voice track to a video track, establishing temporal relations between
different components in a multimedia object) constitutes another issue
for networked multimedia that is just beginning to receive attention.

Underlying network protocols also need some work; good, real-time
delivery protocols on the Internet do not yet exist.  In LYNCH's view,
highly important in this context is the notion of networked digital
object IDs, the ability of one object on the network to point to another
object (or component thereof) on the network.  Serious bandwidth issues
also exist.  LYNCH was uncertain if billion-bit-per-second networks would
prove sufficient if numerous people ran video in parallel.

LYNCH concluded by offering an issue for database creators to consider,
as well as several comments about what might constitute good trial
multimedia experiments.  In a networked information world the database
builder or service builder (publisher) does not exercise the same
extensive control over the integrity of the presentation; strange
programs "munge" with one's data before the user sees it.  Serious
thought must be given to what guarantees integrity of presentation.  Part
of that is related to where one draws the boundaries around a networked
information service.  This question of presentation integrity in
client-server computing has not been stressed enough in the academic
world, LYNCH argued, though commercial service providers deal with it
regularly.

Concerning multimedia, LYNCH observed that good multimedia at the moment
is hideously expensive to produce.  He recommended producing multimedia
with either very high sale value, or multimedia with a very long life
span, or multimedia that will have a very broad usage base and whose
costs therefore can be amortized among large numbers of users.  In this
connection, historical and humanistically oriented material may be a good
place to start, because it tends to have a longer life span than much of
the scientific material, as well as a wider user base.  LYNCH noted, for
example, that American Memory fits many of the criteria outlined.  He
remarked the extensive discussion about bringing the Internet or the
National Research and Education Network (NREN) into the K-12 environment
as a way of helping the American educational system.

LYNCH closed by noting that the kinds of applications demonstrated struck
him as excellent justifications of broad-scale networking for K-12, but
that at this time no "killer" application exists to mobilize the K-12
community to obtain connectivity.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Dearth of genuinely interesting applications on the network
a slow-changing situation * The issue of the integrity of presentation in
a networked environment * Several reasons why CD-ROM software does not
network *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the discussion period that followed LYNCH's presentation, several
additional points were made.

LYNCH reiterated even more strongly his contention that, historically,
once one goes outside high-end science and the group of those who need
access to supercomputers, there is a great dearth of genuinely
interesting applications on the network.  He saw this situation changing
slowly, with some of the scientific databases and scholarly discussion
groups and electronic journals coming on as well as with the availability
of Wide Area Information Servers (WAIS) and some of the databases that
are being mounted there.  However, many of those things do not seem to
have piqued great popular interest.  For instance, most high school
students of LYNCH's acquaintance would not qualify as devotees of serious
molecular biology.

Concerning the issue of the integrity of presentation, LYNCH believed
that a couple of information providers have laid down the law at least on
certain things.  For example, his recollection was that the National
Library of Medicine feels strongly that one needs to employ the
identifier field if he or she is to mount a database commercially.  The
problem with a real networked environment is that one does not know who
is reformatting and reprocessing one's data when one enters a client
server mode.  It becomes anybody's guess, for example, if the network
uses a Z39.50 server, or what clients are doing with one's data.  A data
provider can say that his contract will only permit clients to have
access to his data after he vets them and their presentation and makes
certain it suits him.  But LYNCH held out little expectation that the
network marketplace would evolve in that way, because it required too
much prior negotiation.

CD-ROM software does not network for a variety of reasons, LYNCH said.
He speculated that CD-ROM publishers are not eager to have their products
really hook into wide area networks, because they fear it will make their
data suppliers nervous.  Moreover, until relatively recently, one had to
be rather adroit to run a full TCP/IP stack plus applications on a
PC-size machine, whereas nowadays it is becoming easier as PCs grow
bigger and faster.  LYNCH also speculated that software providers had not
heard from their customers until the last year or so, or had not heard
from enough of their customers.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
BESSER * Implications of disseminating images on the network; planning
the distribution of multimedia documents poses two critical
implementation problems * Layered approach represents the way to deal
with users' capabilities * Problems in platform design; file size and its
implications for networking * Transmission of megabyte size images
impractical * Compression and decompression at the user's end * Promising
trends for compression * A disadvantage of using X-Windows * A project at
the Smithsonian that mounts images on several networks *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Howard BESSER, School of Library and Information Science, University of
Pittsburgh, spoke primarily about multimedia, focusing on images and the
broad implications of disseminating them on the network.  He argued that
planning the distribution of multimedia documents posed two critical
implementation problems, which he framed in the form of two questions:
1) What platform will one use and what hardware and software will users
have for viewing of the material?  and 2) How can one deliver a
sufficiently robust set of information in an accessible format in a
reasonable amount of time?  Depending on whether network or CD-ROM is the
medium used, this question raises different issues of storage,
compression, and transmission.

Concerning the design of platforms (e.g., sound, gray scale, simple
color, etc.) and the various capabilities users may have, BESSER
maintained that a layered approach was the way to deal with users'
capabilities.  A result would be that users with less powerful
workstations would simply have less functionality.  He urged members of
the audience to advocate standards and accompanying software that handle
layered functionality across a wide variety of platforms.

BESSER also addressed problems in platform design, namely, deciding how
large a machine to design for situations when the largest number of users
have the lowest level of the machine, and one desires higher
functionality.  BESSER then proceeded to the question of file size and
its implications for networking.  He discussed still images in the main.
For example, a digital color image that fills the screen of a standard
mega-pel workstation (Sun or Next) will require one megabyte of storage
for an eight-bit image or three megabytes of storage for a true color or
twenty-four-bit image.  Lossless compression algorithms (that is,
computational procedures in which no data is lost in the process of
compressing [and decompressing] an image--the exact bit-representation is
maintained) might bring storage down to a third of a megabyte per image,
but not much further than that.  The question of size makes it difficult
to fit an appropriately sized set of these images on a single disk or to
transmit them quickly enough on a network.

With these full screen mega-pVO RNZTVH GSZG XLMHGRGFGV Z GSRIW LU Z
NVTZYBGV, LMV TVGH 1,000-3,000 UFOO-HXIVVM RNZTVH LM Z LMV-TRTZYBGV WRHP;
Z HGZMWZIW XW-ILN IVKIVHVMGH ZKKILCRNZGVOB 60 KVIXVMG LU GSZG.  HGLIRMT
RNZTVH GSV HRAV LU Z KX HXIVVM (QFHG 8 YRG XLOLI) RMXIVZHVH HGLIZTV
XZKZXRGB GL 4,000-12,000 RNZTVH KVI TRTZYBGV; 60 KVIXVMG LU GSZG TREVH
LMV GSV HRAV LU Z XW-ILN, DSRXS RM GFIM XIVZGVH Z NZQLI KILYOVN.  LMV
XZMMLG SZEV UFOO-HXIVVM, UFOO-XLOLI RNZTVH DRGS OLHHOVHH XLNKIVHHRLM; LMV
NFHG XLNKIVHH GSVN LI FHV Z OLDVI IVHLOFGRLM.  ULI NVTZYBGV-HRAV RNZTVH,
ZMBGSRMT HOLDVI GSZM Z G-1 HKVVW RH RNKIZXGRXZO.  ULI VCZNKOV, LM Z
URUGB-HRC-PROLYZFW ORMV, RG GZPVH GSIVV NRMFGVH GL GIZMHUVI Z
LMV-NVTZYBGV UROV, RU RG RH MLG XLNKIVHHVW; ZMW GSRH HKVVW ZHHFNVH RWVZO
XRIXFNHGZMXVH (ML LGSVI FHVI XLMGVMWRMT ULI MVGDLIP YZMWDRWGS).  GSFH,
JFVHGRLMH LU WRHP ZXXVHH, IVNLGV WRHKOZB, ZMW XFIIVMG GVOVKSLMV
XLMMVXGRLM HKVVW NZPV GIZMHNRHHRLM LU NVTZYBGV-HRAV RNZTVH RNKIZXGRXZO.

YVHHVI GSVM WRHXFHHVW DZBH GL WVZO DRGS GSVHV OZITV RNZTVH, ULI VCZNKOV,
XLNKIVHHRLM ZMW WVXLNKIVHHRLM ZG GSV FHVI'H VMW.  RM GSRH XLMMVXGRLM, GSV
RHHFVH LU SLD NFXS LMV RH DROORMT GL OLHV RM GSV XLNKIVHHRLM KILXVHH ZMW
DSZG RNZTV JFZORGB LMV MVVWH RM GSV URIHG KOZXV ZIV FMPMLDM.  YFG DSZG RH
PMLDM RH GSZG XLNKIVHHRLM VMGZROH HLNV OLHH LU WZGZ.  YVHHVI FITVW GSZG
NLIV HGFWRVH YV XLMWFXGVW LM RNZTV JFZORGB RM WRUUVIVMG HRGFZGRLMH, ULI
VCZNKOV, DSZG PRMW LU RNZTVH ZIV MVVWVW ULI DSZG PRMW LU WRHXRKORMVH, ZMW
DSZG PRMW LU RNZTV JFZORGB RH MVVWVW ULI Z YILDHRMT GLLO, ZM RMGVINVWRZGV
ERVDRMT GLLO, ZMW ZIXSRERMT.

YVHHVI IVNZIPVW GDL KILNRHRMT GIVMWH ULI XLNKIVHHRLM:  UILN Z GVXSMRXZO
KVIHKVXGREV, ZOTLIRGSNH GSZG FHV DSZG RH XZOOVW HFYQVXGREV IVWFMWZMXB
VNKOLB KIRMXRKOVH UILN ERHFZO KHBXSL-KSBHRXH GL RWVMGRUB ZMW IVNLEV
RMULINZGRLM UILN GSV RNZTV GSZG GSV SFNZM VBV XZMMLG KVIXVREV; UILN ZM
RMGVIXSZMTV ZMW RMGVILKVIZYRORGB KVIHKVXGREV, GSV QKVT (R.V., QLRMG
KSLGLTIZKSRX VCKVIGH TILFK, ZM RHL HGZMWZIW) XLNKIVHHRLM ZOTLIRGSNH ZOHL
LUUVI KILNRHV.  GSVHV RHHFVH LU XLNKIVHHRLM ZMW WVXLNKIVHHRLM, YVHHVI
ZITFVW, IVHVNYOVW GSLHV IZRHVW VZIORVI XLMXVIMRMT GSV WVHRTM LU WRUUVIVMG
KOZGULINH.  TZFTRMT GSV XZKZYRORGRVH LU KLGVMGRZO FHVIH XLMHGRGFGVH Z
KIRNZIB TLZO.  YVHHVI ZWELXZGVW OZBVIRMT LI HVKZIZGRMT GSV RNZTVH UILN
GSV ZKKORXZGRLMH GSZG IVGIRVEV ZMW WRHKOZB GSVN, GL ZELRW GBRMT GSVN GL
KZIGRXFOZI HLUGDZIV.

YVHHVI WVGZROVW HVEVIZO OVHHLMH OVZIMVW UILN SRH DLIP ZG YVIPVOVB DRGS
RNZTVJFVIB, VHKVXRZOOB GSV ZWEZMGZTVH ZMW WRHZWEZMGZTVH LU FHRMT
C-DRMWLDH.  RM GSV OZGGVI XZGVTLIB, ULI VCZNKOV, IVGIRVEZO RH GRVW
WRIVXGOB GL LMV'H WZGZ, ZM RMGLOVIZYOV HRGFZGRLM RM GSV OLMT IFM LM Z
MVGDLIPVW HBHGVN.  URMZOOB, YVHHVI WVHXIRYVW Z KILQVXG LU QRN DZOOZXV ZG
GSV HNRGSHLMRZM RMHGRGFGRLM, DSL RH NLFMGRMT RNZTVH RM Z VCGIVNVOB
IFWRNVMGZIB DZB LM GSV XLNKFHVIE ZMW TVMRV MVGDLIPH ZMW RH KIVKZIRMT GL
NLFMG GSVN LM ZNVIRXZ LM ORMV.  ZOGSLFTS GSV ZEVIZTV FHVI GZPVH LEVI
GSRIGB NRMFGVH GL WLDMOLZW GSVHV RNZTVH (ZHHFNRMT Z UZRIOB UZHG NLWVN),
MVEVIGSVOVHH, RNZTVH SZEV YVVM WLDMOLZWVW 25,000 GRNVH.

YVHHVI XLMXOFWVW SRH GZOP DRGS HVEVIZO XLNNVMGH LM GSV YFHRMVHH
ZIIZMTVNVMG YVGDVVM GSV HNRGSHLMRZM ZMW XLNKFHVIE.  SV XLMGVMWVW GSZG MLG
VMLFTS RH PMLDM XLMXVIMRMT GSV EZOFV LU RNZTVH.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
WRHXFHHRLM * XIVZGRMT WRTRGRAVW KSLGLTIZKSRX XLOOVXGRLMH MVZIOB
RNKLHHRYOV VCXVKG DRGS OZITV LITZMRAZGRLMH ORPV NFHVFNH * MVVW ULI HGFWB
GL WVGVINRMV JFZORGB LU RNZTVH FHVIH DROO GLOVIZGV *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

WFIRMT GSV YIRVU VCXSZMTV YVGDVVM OVHP ZMW YVHHVI GSZG ULOOLDVW, HVEVIZO
XOZIRURXZGRLMH VNVITVW.

OVHP ZITFVW GSZG GSV KSLGLTIZKSVIH DVIV UZI ZSVZW LU YVHHVI:  RG RH
ZONLHG RNKLHHRYOV GL XIVZGV HFXS WRTRGRAVW KSLGLTIZKSRX XLOOVXGRLMH
VCXVKG DRGS OZITV LITZMRAZGRLMH ORPV NFHVFNH, YVXZFHV ZOO GSV
KSLGLTIZKSRX ZTVMXRVH SZEV YVVM TLRMT XIZAB ZYLFG GSRH ZMW DROO MLG HRTM
ORXVMHRMT ZTIVVNVMGH LM ZMB HLIG LU IVZHLMZYOV GVINH.  OVHP SZW SVZIW
GSZG MZGRLMZO TVLTIZKSRX, ULI VCZNKOV, SZW GIRVW GL YFB GSV IRTSG GL FHV
HLNV RNZTV RM HLNV PRMW LU VWFXZGRLMZO KILWFXGRLM ULI $100 KVI RNZTV, YFG
GSV KSLGLTIZKSVIH DROO MLG GLFXS RG.  GSVB DZMG ZXXLFMGRMT ZMW KZBNVMG
ULI VZXS FHV, DSRXS XZMMLG YV ZXXLNKORHSVW DRGSRM GSV HBHGVN.  YVHHVI
IVHKLMWVW GSZG Z XLMHLIGRFN LU KSLGLTIZKSVIH, SVZWVW YB Z ULINVI MZGRLMZO
TVLTIZKSRX KSLGLTIZKSVI, SZW HGZIGVW ZHHVNYORMT RGH LDM XLOOVXGRLM LU
VOVXGILMRX IVKILWFXGRLMH LU RNZTVH, DRGS GSV NLMVB TLRMT YZXP GL GSV
XLLKVIZGREV.

OVHP XLMGVMWVW GSZG YVHHVI DZH FMMVXVHHZIROB KVHHRNRHGRX ZYLFG NFOGRNVWRZ
RNZTVH, YVXZFHV KVLKOV ZIV ZXXFHGLNVW GL OLD-JFZORGB RNZTVH, KZIGRXFOZIOB
UILN ERWVL.  YVHHVI FITVW GSV OZFMXSRMT LU Z HGFWB GL WVGVINRMV DSZG
FHVIH DLFOW GLOVIZGV, DSZG GSVB DLFOW UVVO XLNULIGZYOV DRGS, ZMW DSZG
ZYHLOFGVOB RH GSV SRTSVHG JFZORGB GSVB DLFOW VEVI MVVW.  XLMXVWRMT GSZG
SV SZW ZWLKGVW Z WRIV GLMV RM LIWVI GL ZILFHV KVLKOV ZYLFG GSV RHHFV,
YVHHVI XOLHVW LM Z HZMTFRMV MLGV YB HZBRMT GSZG SV DLFOW MLG YV RM GSRH
YFHRMVHH RU SV WRW MLG GSRMP GSZG GSRMTH XLFOW YV ZXXLNKORHSVW.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
OZIHVM * RHHFVH LU HXZOZYRORGB ZMW NLWFOZIRGB * TVLNVGIRX TILDGS LU GSV
RMGVIMVG ZMW GSV ILOV KOZBVW YB OZBVIRMT * YZHRX UFMXGRLMH HFHGZRMRMT
GSRH TILDGS * Z ORYIZIB'H ILOVH ZMW UFMXGRLMH RM Z MVGDLIP VMERILMNVMG *
VUUVXGH LU RNKOVNVMGZGRLM LU GSV A39.50 KILGLXLO ULI RMULINZGRLM
IVGIRVEZO LM GSV ORYIZIB HBHGVN * GSV GIZWV-LUU YVGDVVM ELOFNVH LU WZGZ
ZMW RGH KLGVMGRZO FHZTV * Z HMZKHSLG LU XFIIVMG GIVMWH *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

ILMZOW OZIHVM, ZHHLXRZGV WRIVXGLI ULI RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTB, FMREVIHRGB
LU NZIBOZMW ZG XLOOVTV KZIP, URIHG ZWWIVHHVW GSV RHHFVH LU HXZOZYRORGB
ZMW NLWFOZIRGB.  SV MLGVW GSV WRUURXFOGB LU ZMGRXRKZGRMT GSV VUUVXGH LU
LIWVIH-LU-NZTMRGFWV TILDGS, IVUOVXGRMT LM GSV GDVMGB BVZIH LU VCKVIRVMXV
DRGS GSV ZIKZMVG ZMW RMGVIMVG.  IVXZOORMT GSV WZB'H WVNLMHGIZGRLMH LU
XW-ILN ZMW LKGRXZO WRHP NZGVIRZO, SV DVMG LM GL ZHP RU GSV URVOW SZH BVG
OVZIMVW SLD GL HXZOV MVD HBHGVNH GL VMZYOV WVOREVIB ZMW WRHHVNRMZGRLM
ZXILHH OZITV-HXZOV MVGDLIPH.

OZIHVM ULXFHVW LM GSV TVLNVGIRX TILDGS LU GSV RMGVIMVG UILN RGH RMXVKGRLM
XRIXZ 1969 GL GSV KIVHVMG, ZMW GSV ZWQFHGNVMGH IVJFRIVW GL IVHKLMW GL
GSZG IZKRW TILDGS.  GL ROOFHGIZGV GSV RHHFV LU HXZOZYRORGB, OZIHVM
XLMHRWVIVW XLNKFGVI MVGDLIPH ZH RMXOFWRMT GSIVV TVMVIRX XLNKLMVMGH:
XLNKFGVIH, MVGDLIP XLNNFMRXZGRLM MLWVH, ZMW XLNNFMRXZGRLM NVWRZ.  VZXS
XLNKLMVMG HXZOVH (V.T., XLNKFGVIH IZMTV UILN KXH GL HFKVIXLNKFGVIH;
MVGDLIP MLWVH HXZOV UILN RMGVIUZXV XZIWH RM Z KX GSILFTS HLKSRHGRXZGVW
ILFGVIH ZMW TZGVDZBH; ZMW XLNNFMRXZGRLM NVWRZ IZMTV UILN 2,400-YZFW
WRZO-FK UZXRORGRVH GSILFTS 4.5-NYKH YZXPYLMV ORMPH, ZMW VEVMGFZOOB GL
NFOGRTRTZYRG-KVI-HVXLMW XLNNFMRXZGRLM ORMVH), ZMW ZIXSRGVXGFIZOOB, GSV
XLNKLMVMGH ZIV LITZMRAVW GL HXZOV SRVIZIXSRXZOOB UILN OLXZO ZIVZ MVGDLIPH
GL RMGVIMZGRLMZO-HXZOV MVGDLIPH.  HFXS TILDGS RH NZWV KLHHRYOV YB
YFROWRMT OZBVIH LU XLNNFMRXZGRLM KILGLXLOH, ZH YVHHVI KLRMGVW LFG.
YB OZBVIRMT YLGS KSBHRXZOOB ZMW OLTRXZOOB, Z HVMHV LU HXZOZYRORGB RH
NZRMGZRMVW UILN OLXZO ZIVZ MVGDLIPH RM LUURXVH, ZXILHH XZNKFHVH, GSILFTS
YIRWTVH, ILFGVIH, XZNKFH YZXPYLMVH, URYVI-LKGRX ORMPH, VGX., FK RMGL
IVTRLMZO MVGDLIPH ZMW FOGRNZGVOB RMGL MZGRLMZO ZMW RMGVIMZGRLMZO
MVGDLIPH.

OZIHVM GSVM ROOFHGIZGVW GSV TVLNVGIRX TILDGS LEVI Z GDL-BVZI KVIRLW--
GSILFTS HVKGVNYVI 1991--LU GSV MFNYVI LU MVGDLIPH GSZG XLNKIRHV GSV
RMGVIMVG.  GSRH TILDGS SZH YVVM HFHGZRMVW OZITVOB YB GSV ZEZROZYRORGB LU
GSIVV YZHRX UFMXGRLMH:  VOVXGILMRX NZRO, UROV GIZMHUVI (UGK), ZMW IVNLGV
OLT-LM (GVOMVG).  OZIHVM ZOHL IVERVDVW GSV TILDGS RM GSV PRMW LU GIZUURX
GSZG LXXFIH LM GSV MVGDLIP.  MVGDLIP GIZUURX IVUOVXGH GSV QLRMG XLMGIRYFGRLMH
LU Z OZITVI KLKFOZGRLM LU FHVIH ZMW RMXIVZHRMT FHV KVI FHVI.  GLWZB LMV HVVH
HVIRLFH ZKKORXZGRLMH RMELOERMT NLERMT RNZTVH ZXILHH GSV MVGDLIP--Z IZIRGB
GVM BVZIH ZTL.  OZIHVM IVXZOOVW ZMW XLMXFIIVW DRGS YVHHVI'H NZRM KLRMG
GSZG GSV RMGVIVHGRMT KILYOVNH LXXFI ZG GSV ZKKORXZGRLM OVEVO.

OZIHVM GSVM ROOFHGIZGVW Z NLWVO LU Z ORYIZIB'H ILOVH ZMW UFMXGRLMH RM Z
MVGDLIP VMERILMNVMG.  SV MLGVW, RM KZIGRXFOZI, GSV KOZXVNVMG LU LM-ORMV
XZGZOLTFVH LMGL GSV MVGDLIP ZMW KZGILMH LYGZRMRMT ZXXVHH GL GSV ORYIZIB
RMXIVZHRMTOB GSILFTS OLXZO MVGDLIPH, XZNKFH MVGDLIPH, ZMW GSV RMGVIMVG.
OZIHVM HFKKLIGVW OBMXS'H VZIORVI HFTTVHGRLM GSZG DV MVVW GL ZWWIVHH
UFMWZNVMGZO JFVHGRLMH LU MVGDLIPVW RMULINZGRLM RM LIWVI GL YFROW
VMERILMNVMGH GSZG HXZOV RM GSV RMULINZGRLM HVMHV ZH DVOO ZH RM GSV
KSBHRXZO HVMHV.

OZIHVM HFKKLIGVW GSV ILOV LU GSV ORYIZIB HBHGVN ZH GSV ZXXVHH KLRMG RMGL
GSV MZGRLM'H VOVXGILMRX XLOOVXGRLMH.  RNKOVNVMGZGRLM LU GSV A39.50
KILGLXLO ULI RMULINZGRLM IVGIRVEZO DLFOW NZPV HFXS ZXXVHH KIZXGRXZO ZMW
UVZHRYOV.  ULI VCZNKOV, GSRH DLFOW VMZYOV KZGILMH RM NZIBOZMW GL HVZIXS
XZORULIMRZ ORYIZIRVH, LI LGSVI ORYIZIRVH ZILFMW GSV DLIOW GSZG ZIV
XLMULINZMG DRGS A39.50 RM Z NZMMVI GSZG RH UZNRORZI GL FMREVIHRGB LU
NZIBOZMW KZGILMH.  GSRH XORVMG-HVIEVI NLWVO ZOHL HFKKLIGH NLERMT YVBLMW
HVXLMWZIB XLMGVMG RMGL KIRNZIB XLMGVMG.  (GSV MLGRLM LU SLD LMV ORMPH
UILN HVXLMWZIB XLMGVMG GL KIRNZIB XLMGVMG, OZIHVM HZRW, IVKIVHVMGH Z
UFMWZNVMGZO KILYOVN GSZG IVJFRIVH IRTLILFH GSLFTSG.)  ZUGVI MLGRMT
MFNVILFH MVGDLIP VCKVIRNVMGH RM ZXXVHHRMT UFOO-GVCG NZGVIRZOH, RMXOFWRMT
KILQVXGH HFKKLIGRMT GSV LIWVIRMT LU NZGVIRZOH ZXILHH GSV MVGDLIP, OZIHVM
IVERHRGVW GSV RHHFV LU GIZMHNRGGRMT SRTS-WVMHRGB, SRTS-IVHLOFGRLM XLOLI
RNZTVH ZXILHH GSV MVGDLIP ZMW GSV OZITV ZNLFMGH LU YZMWDRWGS GSVB
IVJFRIV.  SV DVMG LM GL ZWWIVHH GSV YZMWDRWGS ZMW HBMXSILMRAZGRLM
KILYOVNH RMSVIVMG RM HVMWRMT UFOO-NLGRLM ERWVL ZXILHH GSV MVGDLIP.

OZIHVM ROOFHGIZGVW GSV GIZWV-LUU YVGDVVM ELOFNVH LU WZGZ RM YBGVH LI
LIWVIH LU NZTMRGFWV ZMW GSV KLGVMGRZO FHZTV LU GSZG WZGZ.  SV WRHXFHHVW
GIZMHNRHHRLM IZGVH (KZIGRXFOZIOB, GSV GRNV RG GZPVH GL NLEV EZIRLFH ULINH
LU RMULINZGRLM), ZMW DSZG LMV XLFOW WL DRGS Z MVGDLIP HFKKLIGRMT
NFOGRTRTZYRG-KVI-HVXLMW GIZMHNRHHRLM.  ZG GSV NLNVMG, GSV MVGDLIP
VMERILMNVMG RMXOFWVH Z XLNKLHRGV LU WZGZ-GIZMHNRHHRLM IVJFRIVNVMGH,
ELOFNVH ZMW ULINH, TLRMT UILN HGVZWB GL YFIHGB (SRTS-ELOFNV) ZMW UILN
EVIB HOLD GL EVIB UZHG.  GSRH ZTTIVTZGV NFHG YV XLMHRWVIVW RM GSV WVHRTM,
XLMHGIFXGRLM, ZMW LKVIZGRLM LU NFOGRTRTZYBGV MVGDLIPH.

OZIHVM'H LYQVXGREV RH GL FHV GSV MVGDLIPH ZMW ORYIZIB HBHGVNH MLD YVRMT
XLMHGIFXGVW GL RMXIVZHV ZXXVHH GL IVHLFIXVH DSVIVEVI GSVB VCRHG, ZMW
GSFH, GL VELOEV GLDZIW ZM LM-ORMV VOVXGILMRX ERIGFZO ORYIZIB.

OZIHVM XLMXOFWVW YB LUUVIRMT Z HMZKHSLG LU XFIIVMG GIVMWH:  XLMGRMFRMT
TVLNVGIRX TILDGS RM MVGDLIP XZKZXRGB ZMW MFNYVI LU FHVIH; HOLDVI
WVEVOLKNVMG LU ZKKORXZGRLMH; ZMW TOZXRZO WVEVOLKNVMG ZMW ZWLKGRLM LU
HGZMWZIWH.  GSV XSZOOVMTV RH GL WVHRTM ZMW WVEVOLK VZXS MVD ZKKORXZGRLM
HBHGVN DRGS MVGDLIP ZXXVHH ZMW HXZOZYRORGB RM NRMW.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
YILDMIRTT * ZXXVHH GL GSV RMGVIMVG XZMMLG YV GZPVM ULI TIZMGVW * KZXPVG
IZWRL ZMW GSV WVEVOLKNVMG LU NVOEBO RM 1980-81 RM GSV WRERHRLM LU ORYIZIB
ZFGLNZGRLM ZG GSV FMREVIHRGB LU XZORULIMRZ  *  WVHRTM XIRGVIRZ ULI KZXPVG
IZWRL * Z WVNLMHGIZGRLM KILQVXG RM HZM WRVTL ZMW UFGFIV KOZMH * HKIVZW
HKVXGIFN * UIVJFVMXRVH ZG DSRXS GSV IZWRLH DROO IFM ZMW KOZMH GL
IVRNKOVNVMG GSV DZRH HVIEVI HLUGDZIV RM GSV KFYORX WLNZRM * MVVW ULI ZM
RMUIZHGIFXGFIV LU IZWRLH GSZG WL MLG NLEV ZILFMW *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

VWDRM YILDMIRTT, VCVXFGREV WRIVXGLI, NVNVC IVHVZIXS RMHGRGFGV, URIHG
KLOOVW GSV ZFWRVMXV RM LIWVI GL HVVP LFG IVTFOZI FHVIH LU GSV RMGVIMVG ZH
DVOO ZH GSLHV KOZMMRMT GL FHV RG HLNV GRNV RM GSV UFGFIV.  DRGS MVZIOB
VEVIBYLWB RM GSV ILLN UZOORMT RMGL LMV XZGVTLIB LI GSV LGSVI, YILDMIRTT
NZWV Z KLRMG IV ZXXVHH, MZNVOB GSZG MFNVILFH RMWRERWFZOH, VHKVXRZOOB GSLHV
DSL FHV GSV RMGVIMVG VEVIB WZB, GZPV ULI TIZMGVW GSVRI ZXXVHH GL RG, GSV
HKVVWH DRGS DSRXS GSVB ZIV XLMMVXGVW, ZMW SLD DVOO RG ZOO DLIPH.
SLDVEVI, ZH YILDMIRTT WRHXLEVIVW YVGDVVM 1987 ZMW 1989 RM ZFHGIZORZ,
RU LMV DZMGH ZXXVHH GL GSV RMGVIMVG YFG XZMMLG ZUULIW RG LI SZH HLNV
KSBHRXZO YLFMWZIB GSZG KIVEVMGH SVI LI SRN UILN TZRMRMT ZXXVHH, RG XZM
YV VCGIVNVOB UIFHGIZGRMT.  SV HFTTVHGVW GSZG YVXZFHV LU VXLMLNRXH ZMW
KSBHRXZO YZIIRVIH DV DVIV YVTRMMRMT GL XIVZGV Z DLIOW LU SZEVH ZMW SZEV-MLGH
RM GSV KILXVHH LU HXSLOZIOB XLNNFMRXZGRLM, VEVM RM GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH.

YILDMIRTT WVGZROVW GSV WVEVOLKNVMG LU NVOEBO RM ZXZWVNRX BVZI 1980-81 RM
GSV WRERHRLM LU ORYIZIB ZFGLNZGRLM ZG GSV FMREVIHRGB LU XZORULIMRZ, RM
LIWVI GL FMWVIHXLIV GSV RHHFV LU ZXXVHH GL GSV HBHGVN, DSRXS ZG GSV
LFGHVG DZH VCGIVNVOB ORNRGVW.  RM HSLIG, GSV KILQVXG MVVWVW GL YFROW Z
MVGDLIP, DSRXS ZG GSZG GRNV VMGZROVW FHV LU HZGVOORGV GVXSMLOLTB, GSZG RH,
KFGGRMT VZIGS HGZGRLMH LM XZNKFH ZMW ZOHL ZXJFRIRMT HLNV GVIIVHGIRZO ORMPH
UILN GSV HGZGV LU XZORULIMRZ'H NRXILDZEV HBHGVN.  GSV RMHGZOOZGRLM LU
HZGVOORGV ORMPH, SLDVEVI, WRW MLG HLOEV GSV KILYOVN (DSRXS ZXGFZOOB
ULINVW KZIG LU Z OZITVI KILYOVN RMELOERMT KLORGRXH ZMW URMZMXRZO IVHLFIXVH).
ULI DSROV GSV KILQVXG GVZN XLFOW TVG Z HRTMZO LMGL Z XZNKFH, RG SZW ML NVZMH
LU WRHGIRYFGRMT GSV HRTMZO GSILFTSLFG GSV XZNKFH.  GSV HLOFGRLM RMELOEVW
ZWLKGRMT Z IVXVMG WVEVOLKNVMG RM DRIVOVHH XLNNFMRXZGRLM XZOOVW KZXPVG IZWRL,
DSRXS XLNYRMVW GSV YZHRX MLGRLM LU KZXPVG-HDRGXSRMT DRGS IZWRL.  GSV KILQVXG
FHVW GSRH GVXSMLOLTB GL TVG GSV HRTMZO UILN Z KLRMG LM XZNKFH DSVIV RG
XZNV WLDM, ZM VZIGS HGZGRLM ULI VCZNKOV, RMGL GSV ORYIZIRVH, YVXZFHV RG
ULFMW GSZG DRIRMT GSV ORYIZIRVH, VHKVXRZOOB GSV LOWVI NZIYOV YFROWRMTH,
DLFOW XLHG $2,000-$5,000 KVI GVINRMZO.

YILDMIRTT MLGVW GSZG, GVM BVZIH ZTL, GSV KILQVXG SZW MVRGSVI GSV KFYORX
KLORXB MLI GSV GVXSMLOLTB GSZG DLFOW SZEV ZOOLDVW RG GL FHV KZXPVG IZWRL
RM ZMB NVZMRMTUFO DZB.  HRMXV GSVM NFXS SZW XSZMTVW.  SV KILXVVWVW GL
WVGZRO IVHVZIXS ZMW WVEVOLKNVMG LU GSV GVXSMLOLTB, SLD RG RH YVRMT
WVKOLBVW RM XZORULIMRZ, ZMW DSZG WRIVXGRLM SV GSLFTSG RG DLFOW GZPV.
GSV WVHRTM XIRGVIRZ ZIV GL KILWFXV Z SRTS-HKVVW, LMV-GRNV, OLD-XLHG,
SRTS-JFZORGB, HVXFIV, ORXVMHV-UIVV WVERXV (KZXPVG IZWRL) GSZG LMV XZM
KOFT RM ZMW KOZB GLWZB, ULITVG ZYLFG RG, ZMW SZEV ZXXVHH GL GSV RMGVIMVG.
YB SRTS HKVVW, YILDMIRTT NVZMG 1 NVTZYBGV ZMW 1.5 NVTZYBGVH.  GSLHV FMRGH
SZEV YVVM YFROG, SV XLMGRMFVW, ZMW ZIV RM GSV KILXVHH LU YVRMT
GBKV-XVIGRURVW YB ZM RMWVKVMWVMG FMWVIDIRGRMT OZYLIZGLIB HL GSZG GSVB XZM
YV GBKV-ORXVMHVW YB GSV UVWVIZO XLNNFMRXZGRLMH XLNNRHHRLM.  ZH RH GSV
XZHV DRGS XRGRAVMH YZMW, LMV DROO YV ZYOV GL KFIXSZHV Z FMRG ZMW MLG SZEV
GL DLIIB ZYLFG ZKKOBRMT ULI Z ORXVMHV.

GSV YZHRX RWVZ, YILDMIRTT VOZYLIZGVW, RH GL GZPV SRTS-HKVVW IZWRL WZGZ
GIZMHNRHHRLM ZMW XIVZGV Z YZXPYLMV MVGDLIP GSZG ZG XVIGZRM HGIZGVTRX
KLRMGH RM GSV MVGDLIP DROO "TZGVDZB" RMGL Z NVWRFN-HKVVW KZXPVG IZWRL
(R.V., LMV GSZG IFMH ZG 38.4 PROLYBGVH), HL GSZG KVISZKH YB 1994-1995
KVLKOV, ORPV GSLHV RM GSV ZFWRVMXV ULI GSV KIRXV LU Z EXI XLFOW KFIXSZHV
Z NVWRFN-HKVVW IZWRL ULI GSV LUURXV LI SLNV, SZEV UFOO MVGDLIP XLMMVXGRERGB
GL GSV RMGVIMVG, ZMW KZIGZPV LU ZOO RGH HVIERXVH, DRGS ML MVVW ULI ZM UXX
ORXVMHV ZMW ML IVTFOZI YROO UILN GSV OLXZO XLNNLM XZIIRVI.  YILDMIRTT
KIVHVMGVW HVEVIZO WVGZROH LU Z WVNLMHGIZGRLM KILQVXG XFIIVMGOB GZPRMT
KOZXV RM HZM WRVTL ZMW WVHXIRYVW KOZMH, KVMWRMT UFMWRMT, GL RMHGZOO Z
UFOO-YLIV MVGDLIP RM GSV HZM UIZMXRHXL ZIVZ.  GSRH MVGDLIP DROO SZEV 600
MLWVH IFMMRMT ZG YZXPYLMV HKVVWH, ZMW 100 LU GSVHV MLWVH DROO YV ORYIZIRVH,
DSRXS RM GFIM DROO YV GSV TZGVDZB KLIGH GL GSV 38.4 PROLYBGV IZWRLH GSZG
DROO TREV XLEVIZTV ULI GSV MVRTSYLISLLWH HFIILFMWRMT GSV ORYIZIRVH.

YILDMIRTT MVCG VCKOZRMVW KZIG 15.247, Z MVD IFOV DRGSRM GRGOV 47 LU GSV
XLWV LU UVWVIZO IVTFOZGRLMH VMZXGVW YB GSV UXX RM 1985.  GSRH IFOV
XSZOOVMTVW GSV RMWFHGIB, DSRXS SZH LMOB MLD IRHVM GL GSV LXXZHRLM, GL
YFROW Z IZWRL GSZG DLFOW IFM ZG ML NLIV GSZM LMV DZGG LU LFGKFG KLDVI ZMW
FHV Z UZRIOB VCLGRX NVGSLW LU NLWFOZGRMT GSV IZWRL DZEV XZOOVW HKIVZW
HKVXGIFN.  HKIVZW HKVXGIFN RM UZXG KVINRGH GSV YFROWRMT LU MVGDLIPH HL
GSZG MFNVILFH WZGZ XLNNFMRXZGRLMH XZM LXXFI HRNFOGZMVLFHOB, DRGSLFG
RMGVIUVIRMT DRGS VZXS LGSVI, DRGSRM GSV HZNV DRWV IZWRL XSZMMVO.

YILDMIRTT VCKOZRMVW GSZG GSV UIVJFVMXRVH ZG DSRXS GSV IZWRLH DLFOW IFM
ZIV EVIB HSLIG DZEV HRTMZOH.  GSVB ZIV DVOO ZYLEV HGZMWZIW NRXILDZEV ZMW
IZWZI.  DRGS Z IZWRL DZEV GSZG HNZOO, LMV DZGG YVXLNVH Z GIVNVMWLFH KFMXS
KVI YRG ZMW GSFH NZPVH GIZMHNRHHRLM ZG IVZHLMZYOV HKVVW KLHHRYOV.  RM
LIWVI GL NRMRNRAV GSV KLGVMGRZO ULI XLMTVHGRLM, GSV KILQVXG RH
FMWVIGZPRMT GL IVRNKOVNVMG HLUGDZIV DSRXS SZH YVVM ZEZROZYOV RM GSV
MVGDLIPRMT YFHRMVHH ZMW RH GZPVM ULI TIZMGVW MLD, ULI VCZNKOV, GXK/RK,
ILFGRMT ZOTLIRGSNH, YIRWTVH, ZMW TZGVDZBH.  RM ZWWRGRLM, GSV KILQVXG
KOZMH GL GZPV GSV DZRH HVIEVI HLUGDZIV RM GSV KFYORX WLNZRM ZMW
IVRNKOVNVMG RG HL GSZG LMV XZM SZEV Z DZRH HVIEVI LM Z NZX RMHGVZW LU Z
FMRC NZXSRMV.  GSV NVNVC IVHVZIXS RMHGRGFGV YVORVEVH GSZG ORYIZIRVH, RM
KZIGRXFOZI, DROO DZMG GL FHV GSV DZRH HVIEVIH DRGS KZXPVG IZWRL.  GSRH
KILQVXG, DSRXS SZH Z GVZN LU ZYLFG GDVOEV KVLKOV, DROO IFM GSILFTS 1993
ZMW DROO RMXOFWV GSV 100 ORYIZIRVH ZOIVZWB NVMGRLMVW ZH DVOO ZH LGSVI
KILUVHHRLMZOH HFXS ZH GSLHV RM GSV NVWRXZO KILUVHHRLM, VMTRMVVIRMT, ZMW
OZD.  GSFH, GSV MVVW RH GL XIVZGV ZM RMUIZHGIFXGFIV LU IZWRLH GSZG WL MLG
NLEV ZILFMW, DSRXS, YILDMIRTT SLKVH, DROO HLOEV Z KILYOVN MLG LMOB ULI
ORYIZIRVH YFG ULI RMWRERWFZOH DSL, YB ZMW OZITV GLWZB, WL MLG SZEV ZXXVHH
ZELRW WFKORXZGRLM ZMW GL VMHFIV ZXXFIZXB ZMW KIVHVIEZGRLM LU FMRJFV
NZGVIRZOH; ZMW 3) ZTIVVNVMG LM GSV MVXVHHZIB HGZMWZIWH ZMW WVEVOLKNVMG LU
GSV ZKKILKIRZGV WRIVXGLIRVH ZMW RMWRXVH GL NZPV MZERTZGRLM
HGIZRTSGULIDZIW ZNLMT GSV EZIRVW IVHLFIXVH GSZG ZIV, ZMW RMXIVZHRMTOB
DROO YV, ZEZROZYOV.  RM GSRH XLMMVXGRLM, TRUULIW IVJFVHGVW GSZG
KZIGRXRKZMGH IVUOVXG UILN GSV LFGHVG FKLM GSV HLIGH LU LFGXLNVH GSVB
GSLFTSG GSV DLIPHSLK NRTSG SZEV.  WRW GSLHV KIVHVMG XLMHGRGFGV Z TILFK
DRGS HFUURXRVMG XLNNLM RMGVIVHGH GL KILKLHV Z MVCG HGVK LI MVCG HGVKH,
ZMW RU HL, DSZG NRTSG GSLHV YV?  GSVB DLFOW IVGFIM GL GSVHV JFVHGRLMH GSV
ULOOLDRMT ZUGVIMLLM.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
UOVRHXSSZFVI * XLIV LU DLIPHSLK XLMXVIMH KIVKZIZGRLM ZMW KILWFXGRLM LU
NZGVIRZOH * HKVXRZO XSZOOVMTV RM XLMEVIHRLM LU GVCGFZO NZGVIRZOH *
JFZORGB EVIHFH JFZMGRGB * WL GSV HVEVIZO TILFKH IVKIVHVMGVW HSZIV XLNNLM
RMGVIVHGH? *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

XZIO UOVRHXSSZFVI, XLLIWRMZGLI, ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB, ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH,
VNKSZHRAVW GSZG SV DLFOW ZGGVNKG GL IVKIVHVMG GSV KVLKOV DSL KVIULIN HLNV
LU GSV DLIP LU XLMEVIGRMT LI KIVKZIRMT  NZGVIRZOH ZMW GSZG GSV XLIV LU
GSV DLIPHSLK SZW GL WL DRGS KIVKZIZGRLM ZMW KILWFXGRLM.  UOVRHXSSZFVI
GSVM WIVD Z WRHGRMXGRLM YVGDVVM GSV OLMT GVIN, DSVM NZMB GSRMTH DLFOW YV
ZEZROZYOV ZMW XLMMVXGVW RM GSV DZBH GSZG TRUULIW WVHXIRYVW, ZMW GSV HSLIG
GVIN, RM DSRXS ZN MLG LMOB SZH DIVHGOVW DRGS GSV RHHFV LU DSZG RH GSV
YVHG XLFIHV GL KFIHFV YFG ZOHL SZH UZXVW Z EZIRVGB LU GVXSMRXZO
XSZOOVMTVH.

UOVRHXSSZFVI IVNZIPVW ZN'H VMWVZELIH GL WVZO DRGS Z DRWV IZMTV LU ORYIZIB
ULINZGH, HFXS ZH NLGRLM KRXGFIV XLOOVXGRLMH, HLFMW-IVXLIWRMT XLOOVXGRLMH,
ZMW KRXGLIRZO XLOOVXGRLMH LU EZIRLFH HLIGH, VHKVXRZOOB XLOOVXGRLMH LU
KSLGLTIZKSH.  RM GSV XLFIHV LU GSVHV VUULIGH, ZN PVKG XLNRMT YZXP GL
GVCGFZO NZGVIRZOH--NZMFHXIRKGH LI IZIV KIRMGVW NZGGVI, YLFMW NZGVIRZOH,
VGX.  GVCG KLHVW GSV TIVZGVHG XLMEVIHRLM XSZOOVMTV LU ZOO.  GSFH, GSV
TVMVHRH LU GSV DLIPHSLK, DSRXS IVUOVXGH GSV KILYOVNH UZXVW YB ZN.  GSVHV
KILYOVNH RMXOFWV KSBHRXZO KILYOVNH.  ULI VCZNKOV, GSLHV RM GSV ORYIZIB
ZMW ZIXSREV YFHRMVHH WVZO DRGS XLOOVXGRLMH NZWV FK LU UIZTROV ZMW IZIV
NZMFHXIRKG RGVNH, YLFMW NZGVIRZOH, VHKVXRZOOB GSV MLGLIRLFHOB YIRGGOV
YLFMW NZGVIRZOH LU GSV OZGV MRMVGVVMGS XVMGFIB.  GSVHV ZIV KIVXRLFH
XFOGFIZO ZIGRUZXGH, SLDVEVI, ZH DVOO ZH RMGVIVHGRMT HLFIXVH LU
RMULINZGRLM, ZMW OX WVHRIVH GL IVGZRM ZMW XLMHVIEV GSVN.  ZN MVVWH GL
SZMWOV GSRMTH DRGSLFG WZNZTRMT GSVN.  TFROOLGRMRMT Z YLLP GL IFM RG
GSILFTS Z HSVVG UVVWVI NFHG YV ZELRWVW ZG ZOO XLHGH.

YVBLMW KSBHRXZO KILYOVNH, RHHFVH KVIGZRMRMT GL JFZORGB ZILHV.  ULI
VCZNKOV, GSV WVHRIV GL KILERWV FHVIH DRGS Z HVZIXSZYOV GVCG RH ZUUVXGVW
YB GSV JFVHGRLM LU ZXXVKGZYOV OVEVO LU ZXXFIZXB.  LMV SFMWIVW KVIXVMG
ZXXFIZXB RH GIVNVMWLFHOB VCKVMHREV.  LM GSV LGSVI SZMW, GSV LFGKFG LU
LKGRXZO XSZIZXGVI IVXLTMRGRLM (LXI) XZM YV GIVNVMWLFHOB RMZXXFIZGV.
ZOGSLFTS ZN SZH ZGGVNKGVW GL URMW Z NRWWOV TILFMW, FMXVIGZRMGB KVIHRHGH
ZH GL DSVGSVI LI MLG RG SZH WRHXLEVIVW GSV IRTSG HLOFGRLM.

JFVHGRLMH LU JFZORGB ZILHV XLMXVIMRMT RNZTVH ZH DVOO.  UOVRHXSSZFVI
XLMGIZHGVW GSV VCGIVNVOB SRTS OVEVO LU JFZORGB LU GSV WRTRGZO RNZTVH RM
GSV XLIMVOO CVILC KILQVXG DRGS ZN'H VUULIGH GL KILERWV Z YILDHV-JFZORGB
LI ZXXVHH-JFZORGB RNZTV, ZH LKKLHVW GL ZM ZIXSREZO LI KIVHVIEZGRLM RNZTV.
UOVRHXSSZFVI GSVIVULIV DVOXLNVW GSV LKKLIGFMRGB GL XLNKZIV MLGVH.

UOVRHXSSZFVI LYHVIEVW RM KZHHRMT GSZG XLMEVIHZGRLMH SV SZW SZW ZYLFG
MVGDLIPH SZEV YVTFM GL HRTMZO GSZG ULI EZIRLFH ULINH LU NVWRZ Z
WVGVINRMZGRLM NZB YV NZWV GSZG GSVIV RH Z YILDHV-JFZORGB RGVN, LI Z
WRHGIRYFGRLM-ZMW-ZXXVHH-JFZORGB RGVN GSZG NZB XLVCRHG RM HLNV HBHGVNH
DRGS Z SRTSVI JFZORGB ZIXSREZO RGVN GSZG DLFOW YV RMXLMEVMRVMG GL HVMW
GSILFTS GSV MVGDLIP YVXZFHV LU RGH HRAV.  UOVRHXSSZFVI IVUVIIVW, LU
XLFIHV, GL RNZTVH NLIV GSZM GL HVZIXSZYOV GVCG.

ZH ZN XLMHRWVIVW GSLHV JFVHGRLMH, HVEVIZO XLMXVKGFZO RHHFVH ZILHV:  LFTSG
ZN LXXZHRLMZOOB GL IVKILWFXV NZGVIRZOH VMGRIVOB GSILFTS ZM RNZTV HVG, ZG
LGSVI GRNVH, VMGRIVOB GSILFTS Z GVCG HVG, ZMW RM HLNV XZHVH, Z NRC?
GSVIV KILYZYOB DLFOW YV GRNVH DSVM GSV SRHGLIRXZO ZFGSVMGRXRGB LU ZM
ZIGRUZXG DLFOW IVJFRIV GSZG RGH RNZTV YV FHVW.  ZM RNZTV NRTSG YV
WVHRIZYOV ZH Z IVXLFIHV ULI FHVIH RU LMV XLFOW MLG KILERWV 100-KVIXVMG
ZXXFIZGV GVCG.  ZTZRM, ZN DLMWVIVW, ZH Z KIZXGRXZO NZGGVI, RU Z
WRHGRMXGRLM XLFOW YV WIZDM YVGDVVM IZIV KIRMGVW NZGGVI GSZG NRTSG VCRHG
RM NFOGRKOV XLOOVXGRLMH--GSZG RH, RM GVM LI URUGVVM ORYIZIRVH.  RM HFXS
XZHVH, GSV MVVW ULI KVIUVXG IVKILWFXGRLM DLFOW YV OVHH GSZM ULI FMRJFV
RGVNH.  RNKORXRG RM SRH IVNZIPH, UOVRHXSSZFVI XLMXVWVW, DZH GSV ZWNRHHRLM
GSZG ZN SZH YVVM GROGRMT HGILMTOB GLDZIWH JFZMGRGB ZMW WIZDRMT YZXP Z
ORGGOV UILN KVIUVXG JFZORGB.  GSZG RH, RG HVVNVW GL ZN GSZG HLXRVGB DLFOW
YV YVGGVI HVIEVW RU NLIV GSRMTH DVIV WRHGIRYFGVW YB OX--VEVM RU GSVB DVIV
MLG JFRGV KVIUVXG--GSZM RU UVDVI GSRMTH, KVIUVXGOB IVKIVHVMGVW, DVIV
WRHGIRYFGVW.  GSRH DZH HGZGVW ZH Z KILKLHRGRLM GL YV GVHGVW, DRGS
IVHKLMHVH GL YV TZGSVIVW UILN FHVIH.

RM GSRMPRMT ZYLFG RHHFVH IVOZGVW GL IVKILWFXGRLM LU NZGVIRZOH ZMW HVVRMT
LGSVI KVLKOV VMTZTVW RM KZIZOOVO ZXGRERGRVH, ZN WVVNVW RG FHVUFO GL
XLMEVMV Z XLMUVIVMXV.  SVMXV, GSV DLIPHSLK.  UOVRHXSSZFVI GSVIVFKLM
HFIEVBVW GSV HVEVIZO TILFKH IVKIVHVMGVW:  1) GSV DLIOW LU RNZTVH (RNZTV
FHVIH ZMW RNZTV NZPVIH); 2) GSV DLIOW LU GVCG ZMW HXSLOZIHSRK ZMW, DRGSRM
GSRH TILFK, GSLHV XLMXVIMVW DRGS OZMTFZTV--UOVRHXSSZFVI XLMUVHHVW GL URMWRMT
WVORTSGUFO RILMB RM GSV UZXG GSZG HLNV LU GSV NLHG ZWEZMXVW GSRMPVIH LM
XLNKFGVIRAVW GVCGH ZIV GSLHV WVZORMT DRGS ZMXRVMG TIVVP ZMW ILNZM NZGVIRZOH;
3) GSV MVGDLIP DLIOW; ZMW 4) GSV TVMVIZO DLIOW LU ORYIZIB HXRVMXV, DSRXS
RMXOFWVH KVLKOV RMGVIVHGVW RM KIVHVIEZGRLM ZMW XZGZOLTRMT.

UOVRHXSSZFVI XLMXOFWVW SRH IVNZIPH DRGS HKVXRZO GSZMPH GL GSV WZERW ZMW
OFXROV KZXPZIW ULFMWZGRLM ULI RGH HFKKLIG LU GSV NVVGRMT, GSV ZNVIRXZM
NVNLIB TILFK, GSV LUURXV ULI HXSLOZIOB KILTIZNH, GSV MZGRLMZO
WVNLMHGIZGRLM OZY, ZMW GSV LUURXV LU HKVXRZO VEVMGH.  SV VCKIVHHVW GSV
SLKV GSZG WZERW DLLWOVB KZXPZIW NRTSG YV ZYOV GL ZGGVMW, MLGRMT GSZG
KZXPZIW'H DLIP ZMW GSV DLIP LU GSV ULFMWZGRLM SZW HKLMHLIVW Z MFNYVI LU
KILQVXGH RM GSV GVCG ZIVZ.

                                 ******

HVHHRLM R.  XLMGVMG RM Z MVD ULIN:   DSL DROO FHV RG ZMW DSZG DROO GSVB WL?

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
WZOB * ZXPMLDOVWTVNVMGH * Z MVD OZGRM ZFGSLIH WRHP *  VUUVXGH LU GSV MVD
GVXSMLOLTB LM KIVERLFH NVGSLWH LU IVHVZIXS *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

HVIERMT ZH NLWVIZGLI, QZNVH WZOB ZXPMLDOVWTVW GSV TVMVILHRGB LU ZOO GSV
KIVHVMGVIH ULI TRERMT LU GSVRI GRNV, XLFMHVO, ZMW KZGRVMXV RM KOZMMRMT
GSV DLIPHSLK, ZH DVOO ZH LU NVNYVIH LU GSV ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB KILQVXG ZMW
LGSVI ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH HGZUU, ZMW GSV WZERW ZMW OFXROV KZXPZIW
ULFMWZGRLM ZMW RGH VCVXFGREV WRIVXGLI, XLOYFIM H. DROYFI.

WZOB GSVM IVXLFMGVW SRH ERHRG RM NZIXS GL GSV XVMGVI ULI VOVXGILMRX GVCGH
RM GSV SFNZMRGRVH (XVGS) ZMW GSV WVKZIGNVMG LU XOZHHRXH ZG IFGTVIH
FMREVIHRGB, DSVIV ZM LOW UIRVMW, OLDVOO VWNFMWH, RMGILWFXVW SRN GL GSV
WVKZIGNVMG'H RYBXFH HXSLOZIOB KVIHLMZO XLNKFGVI, ZMW, RM KZIGRXFOZI, GSV
MVD OZGRM XW-ILN, XLMGZRMRMT, ZNLMT LGSVI GSRMTH, ZONLHG ZOO XOZHHRXZO
OZGRM ORGVIZIB GVCGH GSILFTS Z.W. 200.  KZXPZIW SFNZMRGRVH RMHGRGFGV
(KSR), OLH ZOGLH, XZORULIMRZ, IVOVZHVW GSRH WRHP OZGV RM 1991, DRGS Z
MLNRMZO GIRVMMRZO ORXVMHRMT UVV.

KOZBRMT DRGS GSV WRHP ULI ZM SLFI LI HL ZG IFGTVIH YILFTSG SLNV GL WZOB
ZG LMXV GSV IVELOFGRLMRARMT RNKZXG LU GSV MVD GVXSMLOLTB LM SRH KIVERLFH
NVGSLWH LU IVHVZIXS.  SZW GSRH WRHP YVVM ZEZROZYOV GDL LI GSIVV BVZIH
VZIORVI, WZOB XLMGVMWVW, DSVM SV DZH VMTZTVW RM KIVKZIRMT Z XLNNVMGZIB LM
YLLP 10 LU ERITRO'H ZVMVRW ULI XZNYIRWTV FMREVIHRGB KIVHH, SV DLFOW MLG
SZEV IVJFRIVW Z ULIGB-VRTSG-HJFZIV-ULLG GZYOV LM DSRXS GL HKIVZW GSV
MFNVILFH, NLHG UIVJFVMGOB XLMHFOGVW RGVNH, RMXOFWRMT HLNV GVM LI GDVOEV
XLMXLIWZMXVH GL PVB OZGRM ZFGSLIH, ZM ZONLHG VJFZO MFNYVI LU OVCRXZ GL
ZFGSLIH DSL OZXPVW XLMXLIWZMXVH, ZMW DSVIV VRGSVI OVCRXZ LI XLMXLIWZMXVH
DVIV OZXPRMT, MFNVILFH VWRGRLMH LU ZFGSLIH ZMGVWZGRMT ZMW KLHGWZGRMT ERITRO.

MLI, DSVM XSVXPRMT VZXS LU GSV ZEVIZTV HRC GL HVEVM DLIWH XLMGZRMVW RM
GSV ERITRORZM SVCZNVGVI ULI RGH FHZTV VOHVDSVIV RM ERITRO'H DLIPH LI
LGSVI OZGRM ZFGSLIH, DLFOW WZOB SZEV SZW GL NZRMGZRM GSV OZYLIRLFH
NVXSZMRXZO KILXVHH LU UORKKRMT GSILFTS GSVHV XLMXLIWZMXVH, OVCRXZ, ZMW
VWRGRLMH VZXS GRNV.  MLI DLFOW SV SZEV SZW GL UIVJFVMG ZH LUGVM GSV
NROGLM H. VRHVMSLDVI ORYIZIB ZG GSV QLSMH SLKPRMH FMREVIHRGB GL XLMHFOG
GSV GSVHZFIFH ORMTFZV OZGRMZV.  RMHGVZW LU WVELGRMT XLFMGOVHH SLFIH, LI
GSV YFOP LU SRH IVHVZIXS GRNV, GL TZGSVIRMT WZGZ XLMXVIMRMT ERITRO'H FHV
LU DLIWH, WZOB--MLD UIVVW YB KSR'H OZGRM ZFGSLIH WRHP UILN GSV
GBIZMMRXZO, BVG RM HLNV DZBH KZIZWLCRXZOOB SZKKB HXSLOZIOB WIFWTVIB--
DLFOW SZEV YVVM ZYOV GL WVELGV GSZG HZNV YFOP LU GRNV GL ZMZOBARMT ZMW
RMGVIKIVGRMT ERITRORZM EVIYZO FHZTV.

XRGRMT GSVLWLIV YIFMMVI, TIVTLIB XIZMV, VOOR NBOLMZH, ZMW ZEIZ NRXSVOHLM,
WZOB ZITFVW GSZG GSRH IVEVIHZO RM SRH HGBOV LU DLIP, NZWV KLHHRYOV YB GSV
MVD GVXSMLOLTB, DLFOW KVISZKH SZEV IVHFOGVW RM YVGGVI, NLIV KILWFXGREV
IVHVZIXS.  RMWVVW, VEVM RM GSV XLFIHV LU SRH YILDHRMT GSV OZGRM ZFGSLIH
WRHP ZG IFGTVIH, RGH KLDVIUFO HVZIXS, IVGIRVEZO, ZMW SRTSORTSGRMT
XZKZYRORGRVH HFTTVHGVW GL SRN HVEVIZO MVD ZEVMFVH LU IVHVZIXS RMGL
ERITRO'H FHV LU HLFMW VUUVXGH.  GSRH ZMVXWLGZO ZXXLFMG, WZOB NZRMGZRMVW,
NZB HVIEV GL ROOFHGIZGV RM KZIG GSV HFWWVM ZMW IZWRXZO GIZMHULINZGRLM
YVRMT DILFTSG RM GSV DZBH HXSLOZIH DLIP.

                                 ******

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
NRXSVOHLM * VOVNVMGH IVOZGVW GL HXSLOZIHSRK ZMW GVXSMLOLTB * VOVXGILMRX
GVCGH DRGSRM GSV XLMGVCG LU YILZWVI GIVMWH DRGSRM RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTB
ZMW HXSLOZIOB XLNNFMRXZGRLM * VEZOFZGRLM LU GSV KILHKVXGH ULI GSV FHV LU
VOVXGILMRX GVCGH * IVOZGRLMHSRK LU VOVXGILMRX GVCGH GL KILXVHHVH LU
HXSLOZIOB XLNNFMRXZGRLM RM SFNZMRGRVH IVHVZIXS * MVD VCXSZMTV ULINZGH
XIVZGVW YB HXSLOZIH * KILQVXGH RMRGRZGVW GL RMXIVZHV HXSLOZIOB ZXXVHH GL
XLMEVIGVW GVCG * GIVMW GLDZIW NZPRMT VOVXGILMRX IVHLFIXVH ZEZROZYOV
GSILFTS IVHVZIXS ZMW VWFXZGRLM MVGDLIPH * XSZMTVH GZPRMT KOZXV RM
HXSLOZIOB XLNNFMRXZGRLM ZNLMT SFNZMRGRVH HXSLOZIH * MVGDLIP-NVWRZGVW
HXSLOZIHSRK GIZMHULINRMT GIZWRGRLMZO HXSLOZIOB KIZXGRXVH * PVB
RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTB GIVMWH ZUUVXGRMT GSV XLMWFXG LU HXSLOZIOB
XLNNFMRXZGRLM LEVI GSV MVCG WVXZWV * GSV GIVMW GLDZIW VMW-FHVI XLNKFGRMT
* GSV GIVMW GLDZIW TIVZGVI XLMMVXGRERGB * VUUVXGH LU GSVHV GIVMWH * PVB
GIZMHULINZGRLMH GZPRMT KOZXV * HFNNZIB LU KIRMXRKZO ZITFNVMGH *
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

ZEIZ NRXSVOHLM, ZIXSREZO IVHVZIXS ZMW VEZOFZGRLM HGZUU, MZGRLMZO ZIXSREVH
ZMW IVXLIWH ZWNRMRHGIZGRLM (MZIZ), ZITFVW GSZG VHGZYORHSRMT DSL DROO FHV
VOVXGILMRX GVCGH ZMW DSZG GSVB DROO FHV GSVN ULI RMELOEVH Z XLMHRWVIZGRLM
LU YLGS RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTB ZMW HXSLOZIHSRK GIVMWH.  GSRH
XLMHRWVIZGRLM RMXOFWVH HVEVIZO VOVNVMGH IVOZGVW GL HXSLOZIHSRK ZMW
GVXSMLOLTB:  1) GSV PVB GIVMWH RM RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTB GSZG ZIV NLHG
IVOVEZMG GL HXSLOZIHSRK; 2) GSV PVB GIVMWH RM GSV FHV LU XFIIVMGOB
ZEZROZYOV GVXSMLOLTB YB HXSLOZIH RM GSV MLMHXRVMGRURX XLNNFMRGB; ZMW 3)
GSV IVOZGRLMHSRK YVGDVVM GSVHV GDL EVIB WRHGRMXG YFG RMGVIIVOZGVW GIVMWH.
GSV RMEVHGNVMG RM FMWVIHGZMWRMT GSRH IVOZGRLMHSRK YVRMT NZWV YB
RMULINZGRLM KILERWVIH, GVXSMLOLTRHGH, ZMW KFYORX KLORXB WVEVOLKVIH, ZH
DVOO ZH YB HXSLOZIH GSVNHVOEVH, HVVNH GL YV KVIEZHREV ZMW TILDRMT,
NRXSVOHLM XLMGVMWVW.  HSV WIVD LM XLOOZYLIZGREV DLIP DRGS QVUU ILGSVMYVIT
LM GSV HXSLOZIOB FHV LU GVXSMLOLTB.

NRXSVOHLM HLFTSG GL KOZXV GSV KSVMLNVMLM LU VOVXGILMRX GVCGH DRGSRM GSV
XLMGVCG LU YILZWVI GIVMWH DRGSRM RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTB ZMW HXSLOZIOB
XLNNFMRXZGRLM.  HSV ZITFVW GSZG VOVXGILMRX GVCGH ZIV LU NLHG FHV GL
IVHVZIXSVIH GL GSV VCGVMG GSZG GSV IVHVZIXSVIH' DLIPRMT XLMGVCG (R.V.,
GSVRI IVOVEZMG YRYORLTIZKSRX HLFIXVH, XLOOVTRZO UVVWYZXP, ZMZOBGRX GLLOH,
MLGVH, WIZUGH, VGX.), ZOLMT DRGS GSVRI URVOW'H KIRNZIB ZMW HVXLMWZIB
HLFIXVH, ZOHL RH ZXXVHHRYOV RM VOVXGILMRX ULIN ZMW XZM YV RMGVTIZGVW RM
DZBH GSZG ZIV FMRJFV GL GSV LM-ORMV VMERILMNVMG.

VEZOFZGRLM LU GSV KILHKVXGH ULI GSV FHV LU VOVXGILMRX GVCGH RMXOFWVH GDL
VOVNVMGH:  1) ZM VCZNRMZGRLM LU GSV DZBH RM DSRXS IVHVZIXSVIH XFIIVMGOB
ZIV FHRMT VOVXGILMRX GVCGH ZOLMT DRGS LGSVI VOVXGILMRX IVHLFIXVH, ZMW 2)
ZM ZMZOBHRH LU PVB RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTB GIVMWH GSZG ZIV ZUUVXGRMT GSV
OLMT-GVIN XLMWFXG LU HXSLOZIOB XLNNFMRXZGRLM.  NRXSVOHLM ORNRGVW SVI
WRHXFHHRLM LU GSV FHV LU VOVXGILMRX GVCGH GL GSV KIZXGRXVH LU SFNZMRHGH
ZMW MLGVW GSZG GSV HXRVMGRURX XLNNFMRGB DZH LFGHRWV GSV KZMVO'H LEVIERVD.

NRXSVOHLM VCZNRMVW GSV MZGFIV LU GSV XFIIVMG IVOZGRLMHSRK LU VOVXGILMRX
GVCGH RM KZIGRXFOZI, ZMW VOVXGILMRX IVHLFIXVH RM TVMVIZO, GL DSZG HSV
NZRMGZRMVW DVIV, VHHVMGRZOOB, UREV KILXVHHVH LU HXSLOZIOB XLNNFMRXZGRLM
RM SFNZMRGRVH IVHVZIXS.  IVHVZIXSVIH 1) RWVMGRUB HLFIXVH, 2) XLNNFMRXZGV
DRGS GSVRI XLOOVZTFVH, 3) RMGVIKIVG ZMW ZMZOBAV WZGZ, 4) WRHHVNRMZGV
GSVRI IVHVZIXS URMWRMTH, ZMW 5) KIVKZIV XFIIRXFOZ GL RMHGIFXG GSV MVCG
TVMVIZGRLM LU HXSLOZIH ZMW HGFWVMGH.  GSRH VCZNRMZGRLM DLFOW KILWFXV Z
XOVZIVI FMWVIHGZMWRMT LU GSV HBMVITB ZNLMT GSVHV UREV KILXVHHVH GSZG
UFVOH GSV GVMWVMXB LU GSV FHV LU VOVXGILMRX IVHLFIXVH ULI LMV KILXVHH GL
HGRNFOZGV RGH FHV ULI LGSVI KILXVHHVH LU HXSLOZIOB XLNNFMRXZGRLM.

ULI GSV URIHG KILXVHH LU HXSLOZIOB XLNNFMRXZGRLM, GSV RWVMGRURXZGRLM LU
HLFIXVH, NRXSVOHLM IVNZIPVW GSV LKKLIGFMRGB HXSLOZIH MLD VMQLB GL
HFKKOVNVMG GIZWRGRLMZO DLIW-LU-NLFGS HVZIXSVH ULI HLFIXVH ZNLMT GSVRI
XLOOVZTFVH DRGS MVD ULINH LU VOVXGILMRX HVZIXSRMT.  HL, ULI VCZNKOV,
RMHGVZW LU SZERMT GL ERHRG GSV ORYIZIB, IVHVZIXSVIH ZIV ZYOV GL VCKOLIV
WVHXIRKGRLMH LU SLOWRMTH RM GSVRI LUURXVH.  UFIGSVINLIV, RU GSVRI LDM
RMHGRGFGRLMH' SLOWRMTH KILEV RMHFUURXRVMG, HXSLOZIH XZM ZXXVHH NLIV GSZM
200 NZQLI ZNVIRXZM ORYIZIB XZGZOLTFVH LEVI RMGVIMVG, RMXOFWRMT GSV
FMREVIHRGRVH LU XZORULIMRZ, NRXSRTZM, KVMMHBOEZMRZ, ZMW DRHXLMHRM.
WRIVXG ZXXVHH GL GSV YRYORLTIZKSRX WZGZYZHVH LUUVIH RMGVOOVXGFZO
VNKLDVINVMG GL HXSLOZIH YB KIVHVMGRMT Z XLNKIVSVMHREV NVZMH LU YILDHRMT
GSILFTS ORYIZIRVH UILN GSVRI SLNVH ZMW LUURXVH ZG GSVRI XLMEVMRVMXV.

GSV HVXLMW KILXVHH LU XLNNFMRXZGRLM RMELOEVH XLNNFMRXZGRLM ZNLMT
HXSLOZIH.  YVBLMW GSV NLHG XLNNLM NVGSLWH LU XLNNFMRXZGRLM, HXSLOZIH ZIV
FHRMT V-NZRO ZMW Z EZIRVGB LU MVD VOVXGILMRX XLNNFMRXZGRLMH ULINZGH
WVIREVW UILN RG ULI UFIGSVI ZXZWVNRX RMGVIXSZMTV.  V-NZRO VCXSZMTVH ZIV
TILDRMT ZG ZM ZHGLMRHSRMT IZGV, IVKLIGVWOB 15 KVIXVMG Z NLMGS.  GSVB
XFIIVMGOB XLMHGRGFGV ZKKILCRNZGVOB SZOU GSV GIZUURX LM IVHVZIXS ZMW
VWFXZGRLM MVGDLIPH.  NLIVLEVI, GSV TOLYZO HKIVZW LU V-NZRO SZH YVVM HL
IZKRW GSZG RG RH MLD KLHHRYOV ULI ZNVIRXZM HXSLOZIH GL FHV RG GL
XLNNFMRXZGV DRGS XLOOVZTFVH RM XOLHV GL 140 LGSVI XLFMGIRVH.

LGSVI MVD VCXSZMTV ULINZGH XIVZGVW YB HXSLOZIH ZMW LKVIZGRMT LM RMGVIMVG
RMXOFWV NLIV GSZM 700 XLMUVIVMXVH, DRGS ZYLFG 80 KVIXVMG LU GSVHV WVELGVW
GL GLKRXH RM GSV HLXRZO HXRVMXVH ZMW SFNZMRGRVH.  GSV IZGV LU TILDGS LU
GSVHV HXSLOZIOB VOVXGILMRX XLMUVIVMXVH ZOHL RH ZHGLMRHSRMT.  UILN O990 GL
O991, 200 MVD XLMUVIVMXVH DVIV RWVMGRURVW LM RMGVIMVG.  UILN LXGLYVI 1991
GL QFMV 1992, ZM ZWWRGRLMZO 150 XLMUVIVMXVH RM GSV HLXRZO HXRVMXVH ZMW
SFNZMRGRVH DVIV ZWWVW GL GSRH WRIVXGLIB LU ORHGRMTH.  HXSLOZIH SZEV
VHGZYORHSVW XLMUVIVMXVH RM ERIGFZOOB VEVIB URVOW, DRGSRM VEVIB WRUUVIVMG
WRHXRKORMV.  ULI VCZNKOV, GSVIV ZIV XFIIVMGOB XOLHV GL 600 ZXGREV HLXRZO
HXRVMXV ZMW SFNZMRGRVH  XLMUVIVMXVH LM GLKRXH HFXS ZH ZIG ZMW
ZIXSRGVXGFIV, VGSMLNFHRXLOLTB, ULOPOLIV, QZKZMVHV XFOGFIV, NVWRXZO
VWFXZGRLM, ZMW TRUGVW ZMW GZOVMGVW VWFXZGRLM.  GSV ZKKVZO GL HXSLOZIH LU
XLNNFMRXZGRMT GSILFTS GSVHV XLMUVIVMXVH RH GSZG, FMORPV ZMB LGSVI NVWRFN,
VOVXGILMRX XLMUVIVMXVH GLWZB KILERWV Z ULIFN ULI TOLYZO XLNNFMRXZGRLM
DRGS KVVIH ZG GSV UILMG VMW LU GSV IVHVZIXS KILXVHH.

RMGVIKIVGZGRLM ZMW ZMZOBHRH LU HLFIXVH XLMHGRGFGVH GSV GSRIW KILXVHH LU
HXSLOZIOB XLNNFMRXZGRLM GSZG NRXSVOHLM WRHXFHHVW RM GVINH LU GVCGH ZMW
GVCGFZO IVHLFIXVH.  GSV NVGSLWH FHVW GL ZMZOBAV HLFIXVH UZOO HLNVDSVIV LM
Z XLMGRMFFN UILN JFZMGRGZGREV ZMZOBHRH GL JFZORGZGREV ZMZOBHRH.
GBKRXZOOB, VERWVMXV RH XFOOVW ZMW VEZOFZGVW FHRMT NVGSLWH WIZDM UILN YLGS
VMWH LU GSRH XLMGRMFFN.  ZG LMV VMW, JFZMGRGZGREV ZMZOBHRH RMELOEVH GSV
FHV LU NZGSVNZGRXZO KILXVHHVH HFXS ZH Z XLFMG LU UIVJFVMXRVH ZMW
WRHGIRYFGRLMH LU LXXFIIVMXVH LI, LM Z SRTSVI OVEVO, IVTIVHHRLM ZMZOBHRH.
ZG GSV LGSVI VMW LU GSV XLMGRMFFN, JFZORGZGREV ZMZOBHRH GBKRXZOOB
RMELOEVH MLMNZGSVNZGRXZO KILXVHHVH LIRVMGVW GLDZIW OZMTFZTV
RMGVIKIVGZGRLM LI GSV YFROWRMT LU GSVLIB.  ZHKVXGH LU GSRH DLIP RMELOEV
GSV KILXVHHRMT--VRGSVI NZMFZO LI XLNKFGZGRLMZO--LU OZITV ZMW HLNVGRNVH
NZHHREV ZNLFMGH LU GVCGFZO HLFIXVH, ZOGSLFTS GSV FHV LU MLMGVCGFZO
HLFIXVH ZH VERWVMXV, HFXS ZH KSLGLTIZKSH, HLFMW IVXLIWRMTH, URON ULLGZTV,
ZMW ZIGRUZXGH, RH HRTMRURXZMG ZH DVOO.

HXSLOZIH SZEV WRHXLEVIVW GSZG NZMB LU GSV NVGSLWH LU RMGVIKIVGZGRLM ZMW
ZMZOBHRH GSZG ZIV IVOZGVW GL YLGS JFZMGRGZGREV ZMW JFZORGZGREV NVGSLWH
ZIV KILXVHHVH GSZG XZM YV KVIULINVW YB XLNKFGVIH.  ULI VCZNKOV, XLNKFGVIH
XZM XLFMG.  GSVB XZM XLFMG YIFHS HGILPVH FHVW RM Z IVNYIZMWG KZRMGRMT LI
KVIULIN IVTIVHHRLM ZMZOBHRH ULI FMWVIHGZMWRMT XZFHV ZMW VUUVXG.  YB NVZMH
LU ZWEZMXVW GVXSMLOLTRVH, XLNKFGVIH XZM IVXLTMRAV KZGGVIMH, ZMZOBAV GVCG,
ZMW NLWVO XLMXVKGH.  UFIGSVINLIV, XLNKFGVIH XZM XLNKOVGV GSVHV KILXVHHVH
UZHGVI DRGS NLIV HLFIXVH ZMW DRGS TIVZGVI KIVXRHRLM GSZM HXSLOZIH DSL
NFHG IVOB LM NZMFZO RMGVIKIVGZGRLM LU WZGZ.  YFG RU HXSLOZIH ZIV GL FHV
XLNKFGVIH ULI GSVHV KILXVHHVH, HLFIXV NZGVIRZOH NFHG YV RM Z ULIN
ZNVMZYOV GL XLNKFGVI-ZHHRHGVW ZMZOBHRH.  ULI GSRH IVZHLM NZMB HXSLOZIH,
LMXV GSVB SZEV RWVMGRURVW GSV HLFIXVH GSZG ZIV PVB GL GSVRI IVHVZIXS, ZIV
XLMEVIGRMT GSVN GL NZXSRMV-IVZWZYOV ULIN.  GSFH, Z IVKIVHVMGZGREV VCZNKOV
LU GSV MFNVILFH GVCGFZO XLMEVIHRLM KILQVXGH LITZMRAVW YB HXSLOZIH ZILFMW
GSV DLIOW RM IVXVMG BVZIH GL HFKKLIG XLNKFGZGRLMZO GVCG ZMZOBHRH RH GSV
GOT, GSV GSVHZFIFH ORMTFZV TIZVXZV.  GSRH KILQVXG RH WVELGVW GL
XLMEVIGRMT GSV VCGZMG ZMXRVMG GVCGH LU XOZHHRXZO TIVVXV.  (VWRGLI'H MLGV:
ZXXLIWRMT GL GSV GOT MVDHOVGGVI LU NZB O992, GOT DZH RM FHV RM GSRIGB-GDL
WRUUVIVMG XLFMGIRVH.  GSRH URTFIV FKWZGVH NRXSVOHLM'H KIVERLFH XLFMG YB LMV.)

GSV HXSLOZIH KVIULINRMT GSVHV XLMEVIHRLMH SZEV YVVM ZHPVW GL IVXLTMRAV
GSZG GSV VOVXGILMRX HLFIXVH GSVB ZIV XLMEVIGRMT ULI LMV FHV KLHHVHH EZOFV
ULI LGSVI IVHVZIXS KFIKLHVH ZH DVOO.  ZH Z IVHFOG, WFIRMT GSV KZHG UVD
BVZIH, SFNZMRGRVH HXSLOZIH SZEV RMRGRZGVW Z MFNYVI LU KILQVXGH GL
RMXIVZHV HXSLOZIOB ZXXVHH GL XLMEVIGVW GVCG.  HL, ULI VCZNKOV, GSV GVCG
VMXLWRMT RMRGRZGREV (GVR), ZYLFG DSRXS NLIV RH HZRW OZGVI RM GSV KILTIZN,
DZH VHGZYORHSVW ZH ZM VUULIG YB HXSLOZIH GL WVGVINRMV HGZMWZIW VOVNVMGH
ZMW NVGSLWH ULI VMXLWRMT NZXSRMV-IVZWZYOV GVCG ULI VOVXGILMRX VCXSZMTV.
RM Z HVXLMW VUULIG GL UZXRORGZGV GSV HSZIRMT LU XLMEVIGVW GVCG, HXSLOZIH
SZEV XIVZGVW Z MVD RMHGRGFGRLM, GSV XVMGVI ULI VOVXGILMRX GVCGH RM GSV
SFNZMRGRVH (XVGS).  GSV XVMGVI VHGRNZGVH GSZG GSVIV ZIV 8,000 HVIRVH LU
HLFIXV GVCGH RM GSV SFNZMRGRVH GSZG SZEV YVVM XLMEVIGVW GL
NZXSRMV-IVZWZYOV ULIN DLIOWDRWV.  XVGS RH FMWVIGZPRMT ZM RMGVIMZGRLMZO
HVZIXS ULI XLMEVIGVW GVCG RM GSV SFNZMRGRVH, XLNKRORMT RG RMGL ZM
VOVXGILMRX ORYIZIB, ZMW KIVKZIRMT YRYORLTIZKSRX WVHXIRKGRLMH LU GSV
HLFIXVH ULI GSV IVHVZIXS ORYIZIRVH RMULINZGRLM MVGDLIP'H (IORM)
NZXSRMV-IVZWZYOV WZGZ UROV.  GSV ORYIZIB KILUVHHRLM SZH YVTFM GL RMRGRZGV
OZITV XLMEVIHRLM KILQVXGH ZH DVOO, HFXS ZH ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB.

DSROV HXSLOZIH SZEV YVVM NZPRMT XLMEVIGVW GVCG ZEZROZYOV GL LMV ZMLGSVI,
GBKRXZOOB LM WRHP LI LM XW-ILN, GSV XOVZI GIVMW RH GLDZIW NZPRMT GSVHV
IVHLFIXVH ZEZROZYOV GSILFTS IVHVZIXS ZMW VWFXZGRLM MVGDLIPH.  GSFH, GSV
ZNVIRXZM ZMW UIVMXS IVHVZIXS LM GSV GIVZHFIB LU GSV UIVMXS OZMTFZTV
(ZIGUO) ZMW GSV WZMGV KILQVXG ZIV ZOIVZWB ZEZROZYOV LM RMGVIMVG.
NRXSVOHLM HFNNZIRAVW GSRH HVXGRLM LM RMGVIKIVGZGRLM ZMW ZMZOBHRH YB
MLGRMT GSZG:  1) RMXIVZHRMT MFNYVIH LU SFNZMRGRVH HXSLOZIH RM GSV ORYIZIB
XLNNFMRGB ZIV IVXLTMRARMT GSV RNKLIGZMXV GL GSV ZWEZMXVNVMG LU
HXSLOZIHSRK LU IVGILHKVXGREV XLMEVIHRLM LU HLFIXV NZGVIRZOH RM GSV ZIGH
ZMW SFNZMRGRVH; ZMW 2) GSVIV RH Z TILDRMT IVZORAZGRLM GSZG NZPRMT GSV
HLFIXVH ZEZROZYOV LM IVHVZIXS ZMW VWFXZGRLM MVGDLIPH NZCRNRAVH GSVRI
FHVUFOMVHH ULI GSV ZMZOBHRH KVIULINVW YB SFNZMRGRVH HXSLOZIH.

GSV ULFIGS KILXVHH LU HXSLOZIOB XLNNFMRXZGRLM RH WRHHVNRMZGRLM LU
IVHVZIXS URMWRMTH, GSZG RH, KFYORXZGRLM.  HXSLOZIH ZIV FHRMT VCRHGRMT
IVHVZIXS ZMW VWFXZGRLM MVGDLIPH GL VMTRMVVI Z MVD GBKV LU KFYORXZGRLM:
HXSLOZIOB-XLMGILOOVW QLFIMZOH GSZG ZIV VOVXGILMRXZOOB KILWFXVW ZMW
WRHHVNRMZGVW.  ZOGSLFTS HFXS QLFIMZOH ZIV HGROO VNVITRMT ZH Z
XLNNFMRXZGRLM ULINZG, GSVRI MFNYVI SZH TILDM, UILN ZKKILCRNZGVOB GDVOEV
GL GSRIGB-HRC WFIRMT GSV KZHG BVZI (QFOB 1991 GL QFMV 1992).  NLHG LU
GSVHV VOVXGILMRX HXSLOZIOB QLFIMZOH ZIV WVELGVW GL GLKRXH RM GSV
SFNZMRGRVH.  ZH DRGS MVGDLIP XLMUVIVMXVH, HXSLOZIOB VMGSFHRZHN ULI GSVHV
VOVXGILMRX QLFIMZOH HGVNH UILN GSV NVWRFN'H FMRJFV ZYRORGB GL ZWEZMXV
HXSLOZIHSRK RM Z DZB GSZG ML LGSVI NVWRFN XZM WL YB HFKKLIGRMT TOLYZO
UVVWYZXP ZMW RMGVIXSZMTV, KIZXGRXZOOB RM IVZO GRNV, VZIOB RM GSV IVHVZIXS
KILXVHH.  YVBLMW HXSLOZIOB QLFIMZOH, NRXSVOHLM IVNZIPVW GSV WVOREVIB LU
XLNNVIXRZO UFOO-GVCG KILWFXGH, HFXS ZH ZIGRXOVH RM KILUVHHRLMZO QLFIMZOH,
MVDHOVGGVIH, NZTZARMVH, DRIV HVIERXVH, ZMW IVUVIVMXV HLFIXVH.  GSVHV ZIV
YVRMT WVOREVIVW ERZ LM-ORMV OLXZO ORYIZIB XZGZOLTFVH, VHKVXRZOOB GSILFTS
XW-ILNH.  UFIGSVINLIV, ZXXLIWRMT GL NRXSVOHLM, GSVIV RH TVMVIZO LKGRNRHN
GSZG GSV XLKBIRTSG ZMW UVVH RHHFVH RNKVWRMT GSV WVOREVIB LU UFOO GVCG LM
VCRHGRMT IVHVZIXS ZMW VWFXZGRLM MVGDLIPH HLLM DROO YV IVHLOEVW.

GSV URMZO KILXVHH LU HXSLOZIOB XLNNFMRXZGRLM RH XFIIRXFOFN WVEVOLKNVMG
ZMW RMHGIFXGRLM, ZMW GSRH RMELOEVH GSV FHV LU XLNKFGVI RMULINZGRLM
GVXSMLOLTRVH RM GDL ZIVZH.  GSV URIHG RH GSV WVEVOLKNVMG LU
XLNKFGVI-LIRVMGVW RMHGIFXGRLMZO GLLOH, DSRXS RMXOFWVH HRNFOZGRLMH,
NFOGRNVWRZ ZKKORXZGRLMH, ZMW XLNKFGVI GLLOH GSZG ZIV FHVW GL ZHHRHG RM
GSV ZMZOBHRH LU HLFIXVH RM GSV XOZHHILLN, VGX.  GSV KVIHVFH KILQVXG, Z
WZGZYZHV GSZG KILERWVH Z NFOGRNVWRZ XFIIRXFOFN LM XOZHHRXZO TIVVP
XRERORAZGRLM, RH Z TLLW VCZNKOV LU GSV DZB RM DSRXS VMGRIV XFIIRXFOZ ZIV
YVRMT IVXZHG FHRMT RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTRVH.  RG RH ZMGRXRKZGVW GSZG GSV
XFIIVMG WRUURXFOGB RM VCXSZMTRMT VOVXGILMRXZOOB XLNKFGVI-YZHVW
RMHGIFXGRLMZO HLUGDZIV, DSRXS RM GFIM NZPVH RG WRUURXFOG ULI LMV HXSLOZI
GL YFROW FKLM GSV DLIP LU LGSVIH, DROO YV IVHLOEVW YVULIV GLL OLMT.
HGZMW-ZOLMV XFIIRXFOZI ZKKORXZGRLMH GSZG RMELOEV VOVXGILMRX GVCG DROO YV
HSZIZYOV GSILFTS MVGDLIPH, IVRMULIXRMT GSVRI HRTMRURXZMXV ZH RMGVOOVXGFZO
KILWFXGH ZH DVOO ZH RMHGIFXGRLMZO GLLOH.

GSV HVXLMW ZHKVXG LU VOVXGILMRX OVZIMRMT RMELOEVH GSV FHV LU IVHVZIXS ZMW
VWFXZGRLM MVGDLIPH ULI WRHGZMXV VWFXZGRLM KILTIZNH.  HFXS KILTIZNH
RMGVIZXGREVOB ORMP GVZXSVIH DRGS HGFWVMGH RM TVLTIZKSRXZOOB HXZGGVIVW
OLXZGRLMH ZMW IVOB LM GSV ZEZROZYRORGB LU VOVXGILMRX RMHGIFXGRLMZO
IVHLFIXVH.  WRHGZMXV VWFXZGRLM KILTIZNH ZIV TZRMRMT DRWV ZKKVZO ZNLMT
HGZGV WVKZIGNVMGH LU VWFXZGRLM YVXZFHV LU GSVRI WVNLMHGIZGVW XZKZXRGB GL
YIRMT ZWEZMXVW HKVXRZORAVW XLFIHV DLIP ZMW ZM ZIIZB LU VCKVIGH GL NZMB
XOZHHILLNH.  Z IVXVMG IVKLIG ULFMW GSZG ZG OVZHG 32 HGZGVH LKVIZGVW ZG
OVZHG LMV HGZGVDRWV MVGDLIP ULI VWFXZGRLM RM 1991, DRGS MVGDLIPH FMWVI
WVEVOLKNVMG RM NZMB LU GSV IVNZRMRMT HGZGVH.

NRXSVOHLM HFNNZIRAVW GSRH HVXGRLM YB MLGRMT GDL HGIRPRMT XSZMTVH GZPRMT
KOZXV RM HXSLOZIOB XLNNFMRXZGRLM ZNLMT SFNZMRGRVH HXSLOZIH.  URIHG RH GSV
VCGVMG GL DSRXS VOVXGILMRX GVCG RM KZIGRXFOZI, ZMW VOVXGILMRX IVHLFIXVH
RM TVMVIZO, ZIV YVRMT RMUFHVW RMGL VZXS LU GSV UREV KILXVHHVH WVHXIRYVW
ZYLEV.  ZH NVMGRLMVW VZIORVI, GSVIV RH Z XVIGZRM HBMVITB ZG DLIP SVIV.
GSV FHV LU VOVXGILMRX IVHLFIXVH ULI LMV KILXVHH GVMWH GL HGRNFOZGV RGH
FHV ULI LGSVI KILXVHHVH, YVXZFHV GSV XSRVU XLFIHV LU NLEVNVMG RH GLDZIW Z
XLNKIVSVMHREV LM-ORMV DLIPRMT XLMGVCG ULI SFNZMRGRVH HXSLOZIH GSZG
RMXOFWVH LM-ORMV ZEZROZYRORGB LU PVB YRYORLTIZKSRVH, HXSLOZIOB UVVWYZXP,
HLFIXVH, ZMZOBGRXZO GLLOH, ZMW KFYORXZGRLMH.  NRXSVOHLM MLGVW UFIGSVI
GSZG GSV NLEVNVMG GLDZIW Z XLNKIVSVMHREV LM-ORMV DLIPRMT XLMGVCG ULI
SFNZMRGRVH HXSLOZIH RH MLG MVD.  RM UZXG, RG SZH YVVM FMWVIDZB ULI NLIV
GSZM ULIGB BVZIH RM GSV SFNZMRGRVH, HRMXV UZGSVI ILYVIGL YFHZ YVTZM
WVEVOLKRMT ZM VOVXGILMRX XLMXLIWZMXV LU GSV DLIPH LU HZRMG GSLNZH ZJFRMZH
RM 1949.  DSZG DV ZIV DRGMVHHRMT GLWZB, NRXSVOHLM XLMGVMWVW, RH MLG GSV
YVTRMMRMT LU GSRH LM-ORMV GIZMHRGRLM YFG, ULI ZG OVZHG HLNV SFNZMRGRVH
HXSLOZIH, GSV GFIMRMT KLRMG RM GSV GIZMHRGRLM UILN Z KIRMG GL ZM
VOVXGILMRX DLIPRMT XLMGVCG.  XLRMXRWRMT DRGS GSV LM-ORMV GIZMHRGRLM, GSV
HVXLMW HGIRPRMT XSZMTV RH GSV VCGVMG GL DSRXS IVHVZIXS ZMW VWFXZGRLM
MVGDLIPH ZIV YVXLNRMT GSV MVD NVWRFN LU HXSLOZIOB XLNNFMRXZGRLM.  GSV
VCRHGRMT RMGVIMVG ZMW GSV KVMWRMT MZGRLMZO VWFXZGRLM ZMW IVHVZIXS MVGDLIP
(MIVM) IVKIVHVMG GSV MVD NVVGRMT TILFMW DSVIV HXSLOZIH ZIV TLRMT ULI
YRYORLTIZKSRX RMULINZGRLM, HXSLOZIOB WRZOLTFV ZMW UVVWYZXP, GSV NLHG
XFIIVMG KFYORXZGRLMH RM GSVRI URVOW, ZMW SRTS-OVEVO VWFXZGRLMZO
LUUVIRMTH.  GIZWRGRLMZO HXSLOZIOB KIZXGRXVH ZIV FMWVITLRMT GIVNVMWLFH
GIZMHULINZGRLMH ZH Z IVHFOG LU GSV VNVITVMXV ZMW TILDRMT KILNRMVMXV LU
DSZG RH XZOOVW MVGDLIP-NVWRZGVW HXSLOZIHSRK.

NRXSVOHLM MVCG GFIMVW GL GSV HVXLMW VOVNVMG LU GSV UIZNVDLIP HSV KILKLHVW
ZG GSV LFGHVG LU SVI GZOP ULI VEZOFZGRMT GSV KILHKVXGH ULI VOVXGILMRX
GVCG, MZNVOB GSV PVB RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTB GIVMWH ZUUVXGRMT GSV XLMWFXG
LU HXSLOZIOB XLNNFMRXZGRLM LEVI GSV MVCG WVXZWV:  1) VMW-FHVI XLNKFGRMT
ZMW 2) XLMMVXGRERGB.

VMW-FHVI XLNKFGRMT NVZMH GSZG GSV KVIHLM GLFXSRMT GSV PVBYLZIW, LI
KVIULINRMT XLNKFGZGRLMH, RH GSV HZNV ZH GSV KVIHLM DSL RMRGRZGVH LI
XLMHFNVH GSV XLNKFGZGRLM.  GSV VNVITVMXV LU KVIHLMZO XLNKFGVIH, ZOLMT
DRGS Z SLHG LU LGSVI ULIXVH, HFXS ZH FYRJFRGLFH XLNKFGRMT, ZWEZMXVH RM
RMGVIUZXV WVHRTM, ZMW GSV LM-ORMV GIZMHRGRLM, RH KILNKGRMT GSV XLMHFNVIH
LU XLNKFGZGRLM GL WL GSVRI LDM XLNKFGRMT, ZMW RH GSFH IVMWVIRMT LYHLOVGV
GSV GIZWRGRLMZO WRHGRMXGRLM YVGDVVM VMW FHVIH ZMW FOGRNZGV FHVIH.

GSV GIVMW GLDZIW VMW-FHVI XLNKFGRMT RH HRTMRURXZMG GL XLMHRWVIZGRLM LU
GSV KILHKVXGH ULI VOVXGILMRX GVCGH YVXZFHV RG NVZMH GSZG IVHVZIXSVIH ZIV
YVXLNRMT NLIV ZWVKG ZG WLRMT GSVRI LDM XLNKFGZGRLMH ZMW, GSFH, NLIV
XLNKVGVMG RM GSV FHV LU VOVXGILMRX NVWRZ.  YB ZELRWRMT KILTIZNNVI
RMGVINVWRZIRVH, XLNKFGZGRLM RH YVXLNRMT XVMGIZO GL GSV IVHVZIXSVI'H
GSLFTSG KILXVHH.  GSRH WRIVXG RMELOEVNVMG RM XLNKFGRMT RH XSZMTRMT GSV
IVHVZIXSVI'H KVIHKVXGREV LM GSV MZGFIV LU IVHVZIXS RGHVOU, GSZG RH, GSV
PRMWH LU JFVHGRLMH GSZG XZM YV KLHVW, GSV ZMZOBGRXZO NVGSLWLOLTRVH GSZG
XZM YV FHVW, GSV GBKVH ZMW ZNLFMG LU HLFIXVH GSZG ZIV ZKKILKIRZGV ULI
ZMZOBHVH, ZMW GSV ULIN RM DSRXS URMWRMTH ZIV KIVHVMGVW.  GSV GIVMW GLDZIW
VMW-FHVI XLNKFGRMT NVZMH GSZG, RMXIVZHRMTOB, VOVXGILMRX NVWRZ ZMW
XLNKFGZGRLM ZIV YVRMT RMUFHVW RMGL ZOO KILXVHHVH LU SFNZMRGRVH
HXSLOZIHSRK, RMHKRIRMT IVNZIPZYOV GIZMHULINZGRLMH RM HXSLOZIOB
XLNNFMRXZGRLM.

GSV GIVMW GLDZIW TIVZGVI XLMMVXGRERGB HFTTVHGH GSZG IVHVZIXSVIH ZIV FHRMT
XLNKFGZGRLM RMXIVZHRMTOB RM MVGDLIP VMERILMNVMGH.  XLMMVXGRERGB RH
RNKLIGZMG GL HXSLOZIHSRK YVXZFHV RG VIZHVH GSV WRHGZMXV GSZG HVKZIZGVH
HGFWVMGH UILN GVZXSVIH ZMW HXSLOZIH UILN GSVRI XLOOVZTFVH, DSROV ZOOLDRMT
FHVIH GL ZXXVHH IVNLGV WZGZYZHVH, HSZIV RMULINZGRLM RM NZMB WRUUVIVMG
NVWRZ, XLMMVXG GL GSVRI DLIPRMT XLMGVCG DSVIVEVI GSVB ZIV, ZMW
XLOOZYLIZGV RM ZOO KSZHVH LU IVHVZIXS.

GSV XLNYRMZGRLM LU GSV GIVMW GLDZIW VMW-FHVI XLNKFGRMT ZMW GSV GIVMW
GLDZIW XLMMVXGRERGB HFTTVHGH GSZG GSV HXSLOZIOB FHV LU VOVXGILMRX
IVHLFIXVH, ZOIVZWB VERWVMG ZNLMT HLNV IVHVZIXSVIH, DROO HLLM YVXLNV ZM
VHGZYORHSVW UVZGFIV LU HXSLOZIHSRK.  GSV VUUVXGH LU GSVHV GIVMWH, ZOLMT
DRGS LMTLRMT XSZMTVH RM HXSLOZIOB KIZXGRXVH, KLRMG GL Z UFGFIV RM DSRXS
SFNZMRGRVH IVHVZIXSVIH DROO FHV XLNKFGZGRLM ZMW VOVXGILMRX XLNNFMRXZGRLM
GL SVOK GSVN ULINFOZGV RWVZH, ZXXVHH HLFIXVH, KVIULIN IVHVZIXS,
XLOOZYLIZGV DRGS XLOOVZTFVH, HVVP KVVI IVERVD, KFYORHS ZMW WRHHVNRMZGV
IVHFOGH, ZMW VMTZTV RM NZMB LGSVI KILUVHHRLMZO ZMW VWFXZGRLMZO ZXGRERGRVH.

RM HFNNZIB, NRXSVOHLM VNKSZHRAVW ULFI KLRMGH:  1) Z KLIGRLM LU SFNZMRGRVH
HXSLOZIH ZOIVZWB XLMHRWVI VOVXGILMRX GVCGH GSV KIVUVIIVW ULINZG ULI
ZMZOBHRH ZMW WRHHVNRMZGRLM.  2) HXSLOZIH ZIV FHRMT GSVHV VOVXGILMRX
GVCGH, RM XLMQFMXGRLM DRGS LGSVI VOVXGILMRX IVHLFIXVH, RM ZOO GSV
KILXVHHVH LU HXSLOZIOB XLNNFMRXZGRLM.  3) GSV SFNZMRGRVH HXSLOZIH'
DLIPRMT XLMGVCG RH RM GSV KILXVHH LU XSZMTRMT UILN KIRMG GVXSMLOLTB GL
VOVXGILMRX GVXSMLOLTB, RM NZMB DZBH NRIILIRMT GIZMHULINZGRLMH GSZG SZEV
LXXFIIVW LI ZIV LXXFIIRMT DRGSRM GSV HXRVMGRURX XLNNFMRGB.  4) GSVHV
XSZMTVH ZIV LXXFIIRMT RM XLMQFMXGRLM DRGS GSV WVEVOLKNVMG LU Z MVD
XLNNFMRXZGRLM NVWRFN:  IVHVZIXS ZMW VWFXZGRLM MVGDLIPH GSZG ZIV
XSZIZXGVIRAVW YB GSVRI XZKZXRGB GL ZWEZMXV HXSLOZIHSRK RM Z DSLOOB FMRJFV
DZB.

NRXSVOHLM ZOHL IVRGVIZGVW SVI GSIVV KIRMXRKZO ZITFNVMGH:  O) VOVXGILMRX
GVCGH ZIV YVHG FMWVIHGLLW RM GVINH LU GSV IVOZGRLMHSRK GL LGSVI
VOVXGILMRX IVHLFIXVH ZMW GSV TILDRMT KILNRMVMXV LU MVGDLIP-NVWRZGVW
HXSLOZIHSRK.  2) GSV KILHKVXGH ULI VOVXGILMRX GVCGH ORV RM GSVRI XZKZXRGB
GL YV RMGVTIZGVW RMGL GSV LM-ORMV MVGDLIP LU VOVXGILMRX IVHLFIXVH GSZG
XLNKIRHV GSV MVD DLIPRMT XLMGVCG ULI HXSLOZIH.  3) IVGILHKVXGREV XLMEVIHRLM
LU KLIGRLMH LU GSV HXSLOZIOB IVXLIW HSLFOW YV Z PVB HGIZGVTB ZH RMULINZGRLM
KILERWVIH IVHKLMW GL XSZMTVH RM HXSLOZIOB XLNNFMRXZGRLM KIZXGRXVH.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
EVXXRZ * ZN'H VEZOFZGRLM KILQVXG ZMW KFYORX FHVIH LU VOVXGILMRX IVHLFIXVH
* ZN ZMW RGH WVHRTM * HRGV HVOVXGRLM ZMW VEZOFZGRMT GSV NZXRMGLHS
RNKOVNVMGZGRLM LU ZN * XSZIZXGVIRHGRXH LU GSV HRC KFYORX ORYIZIRVH
HVOVXGVW * XSZIZXGVIRHGRXH LU ZN'H FHVIH RM GSVHV ORYIZIRVH * KIRMXRKZO
DZBH ZN RH YVRMT FHVW *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

HFHZM EVXXRZ, GVZN OVZWVI, ZMW QLZMMV UIVVNZM, ZHHLXRZGV XLLIWRMZGLI,
ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB, ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH, TZEV Z QLRMG KIVHVMGZGRLM.  URIHG,
YB DZB LU RMGILWFXGRLM, EVXXRZ VCKOZRMVW SVI ZMW UIVVNZM'H ILOVH RM
ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB (ZN).  HVIERMT KIRMXRKZOOB ZH ZM LYHVIEVI, EVXXRZ SZH
ZHHRHGVW DRGS GSV VEZOFZGRLM KILQVXG LU ZN, KOZXRMT ZN XLOOVXGRLMH RM Z
EZIRVGB LU WRUUVIVMG HRGVH ZILFMW GSV XLFMGIB ZMW SVOKRMT GL LITZMRAV ZMW
RNKOVNVMG GSZG KILQVXG.  UIVVNZM SZH YVVM ZM ZHHLXRZGV XLLIWRMZGLI LU ZN
ZMW SZH YVVM RMELOEVW KIRMXRKZOOB DRGS GSV RMGVIKIVGZGREV NZGVIRZOH,
KIVKZIRMT HLNV LU GSV VOVXGILMRX VCSRYRGH ZMW KIRMGVW SRHGLIRXZO
RMULINZGRLM GSZG ZXXLNKZMRVH ZN ZMW GSZG RH IVJFVHGVW YB FHVIH.  EVXXRZ
ZMW UIVVNZM HSZIVW ZMVXWLGZO LYHVIEZGRLMH XLMXVIMRMT ZN DRGS KFYORX FHVIH
LU VOVXGILMRX IVHLFIXVH.  MLGDRGSHGZMWRMT Z UZRIOB HGIFXGFIVW VEZOFZGRLM
RM KILTIVHH, YLGS EVXXRZ ZMW UIVVNZM XSLHV MLG GL IVKLIG LM HKVXRURXH RM
GVINH LU MFNYVIH, VGX., YVXZFHV GSVB UVOG RG DZH GLL VZIOB RM GSV
VEZOFZGRLM KILQVXG GL WL HL.

ZN RH ZM VOVXGILMRX ZIXSREV LU KIRNZIB HLFIXV NZGVIRZOH UILN GSV ORYIZIB
LU XLMTIVHH, HVOVXGVW XLOOVXGRLMH IVKIVHVMGRMT Z EZIRVGB LU ULINZGH--
KSLGLTIZKSH, TIZKSRX ZIGH, IVXLIWVW HLFMW, NLGRLM KRXGFIVH, YILZWHRWVH,
ZMW HLLM, KZNKSOVGH ZMW YLLPH.  RM GVINH LU GSV WVHRTM LU GSRH HBHGVN,
GSV RMGVIKIVGZGREV VCSRYRGH SZEV YVVM PVKG HVKZIZGV UILN GSV KIRNZIB
