
                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Project operating frequencies *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During a brief discussion period, which also concluded the day's
proceedings, BROWNRIGG stated that the project was operating in four
frequencies.  The slow speed is operating at 435 megahertz, and it would
later go up to 920 megahertz.  With the high-speed frequency, the
one-megabyte radios will run at 2.4 gigabits, and 1.5 will run at 5.7.
At 5.7, rain can be a factor, but it would have to be tropical rain,
unlike what falls in most parts of the United States.

                                 ******

SESSION IV.  IMAGE CAPTURE, TEXT CAPTURE, OVERVIEW OF TEXT AND
             IMAGE STORAGE FORMATS

William HOOTON, vice president of operations, I-NET, moderated this session.

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
KENNEY * Factors influencing development of CXP * Advantages of using
digital technology versus photocopy and microfilm * A primary goal of
CXP; publishing challenges * Characteristics of copies printed * Quality
of samples achieved in image capture * Several factors to be considered
in choosing scanning * Emphasis of CXP on timely and cost-effective
production of black-and-white printed facsimiles * Results of producing
microfilm from digital files * Advantages of creating microfilm * Details
concerning production * Costs * Role of digital technology in library
preservation *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Anne KENNEY, associate director, Department of Preservation and
Conservation, Cornell University, opened her talk by observing that the
Cornell Xerox Project (CXP) has been guided by the assumption that the
ability to produce printed facsimiles or to replace paper with paper
would be important, at least for the present generation of users and
equipment.  She described three factors that influenced development of
the project:  1) Because the project has emphasized the preservation of
deteriorating brittle books, the quality of what was produced had to be
sufficiently high to return a paper replacement to the shelf.  CXP was
only interested in using:  2) a system that was cost-effective, which
meant that it had to be cost-competitive with the processes currently
available, principally photocopy and microfilm, and 3) new or currently
available product hardware and software.

KENNEY described the advantages that using digital technology offers over
both photocopy and microfilm:  1) The potential exists to create a higher
quality reproduction of a deteriorating original than conventional
light-lens technology.  2) Because a digital image is an encoded
representation, it can be reproduced again and again with no resulting
loss of quality, as opposed to the situation with light-lens processes,
in which there is discernible difference between a second and a
subsequent generation of an image.  3) A digital image can be manipulated
in a number of ways to improve image capture; for example, Xerox has
developed a windowing application that enables one to capture a page
containing both text and illustrations in a manner that optimizes the
reproduction of both.  (With light-lens technology, one must choose which
to optimize, text or the illustration; in preservation microfilming, the
current practice is to shoot an illustrated page twice, once to highlight
the text and the second time to provide the best capture for the
illustration.)  4) A digital image can also be edited, density levels
adjusted to remove underlining and stains, and to increase legibility for
faint documents.  5) On-screen inspection can take place at the time of
initial setup and adjustments made prior to scanning, factors that
substantially reduce the number of retakes required in quality control.

A primary goal of CXP has been to evaluate the paper output printed on
the Xerox DocuTech, a high-speed printer that produces 600-dpi pages from
scanned images at a rate of 135 pages a minute.  KENNEY recounted several
publishing challenges to represent faithful and legible reproductions of
the originals that the 600-dpi copy for the most part successfully
captured.  For example, many of the deteriorating volumes in the project
were heavily illustrated with fine line drawings or halftones or came in
languages such as Japanese, in which the buildup of characters comprised
of varying strokes is difficult to reproduce at lower resolutions; a
surprising number of them came with annotations and mathematical
formulas, which it was critical to be able to duplicate exactly.

KENNEY noted that 1) the copies are being printed on paper that meets the
ANSI standards for performance, 2) the DocuTech printer meets the machine
and toner requirements for proper adhesion of print to page, as described
by the National Archives, and thus 3) paper product is considered to be
the archival equivalent of preservation photocopy.

KENNEY then discussed several samples of the quality achieved in the
project that had been distributed in a handout, for example, a copy of a
print-on-demand version of the 1911 Reed lecture on the steam turbine,
which contains halftones, line drawings, and illustrations embedded in
text; the first four loose pages in the volume compared the capture
capabilities of scanning to photocopy for a standard test target, the
IEEE standard 167A 1987 test chart.  In all instances scanning proved
superior to photocopy, though only slightly more so in one.

Conceding the simplistic nature of her review of the quality of scanning
to photocopy, KENNEY described it as one representation of the kinds of
settings that could be used with scanning capabilities on the equipment
CXP uses.  KENNEY also pointed out that CXP investigated the quality
achieved with binary scanning only, and noted the great promise in gray
scale and color scanning, whose advantages and disadvantages need to be
examined.  She argued further that scanning resolutions and file formats
can represent a complex trade-off between the time it takes to capture
material, file size, fidelity to the original, and on-screen display; and
printing and equipment availability.  All these factors must be taken
into consideration.

CXP placed primary emphasis on the production in a timely and
cost-effective manner of printed facsimiles that consisted largely of
black-and-white text.  With binary scanning, large files may be
compressed efficiently and in a lossless manner (i.e., no data is lost in
the process of compressing [and decompressing] an image--the exact
bit-representation is maintained) using Group 4 CCITT (i.e., the French
acronym for International Consultative Committee for Telegraph and
Telephone) compression.  CXP was getting compression ratios of about
forty to one.  Gray-scale compression, which primarily uses JPEG, is much
less economical and can represent a lossy compression (i.e., not
lossless), so that as one compresses and decompresses, the illustration
is subtly changed.  While binary files produce a high-quality printed
version, it appears 1) that other combinations of spatial resolution with
gray and/or color hold great promise as well, and 2) that gray scale can
represent a tremendous advantage for on-screen viewing.  The quality
associated with binary and gray scale also depends on the equipment used.
For instance, binary scanning produces a much better copy on a binary
printer.

Among CXP's findings concerning the production of microfilm from digital
files, KENNEY reported that the digital files for the same Reed lecture
were used to produce sample film using an electron beam recorder.  The
resulting film was faithful to the image capture of the digital files,
and while CXP felt that the text and image pages represented in the Reed
lecture were superior to that of the light-lens film, the resolution
readings for the 600 dpi were not as high as standard microfilming.
KENNEY argued that the standards defined for light-lens technology are
not totally transferable to a digital environment.  Moreover, they are
based on definition of quality for a preservation copy.  Although making
this case will prove to be a long, uphill struggle, CXP plans to continue
to investigate the issue over the course of the next year.

KENNEY concluded this portion of her talk with a discussion of the
advantages of creating film:  it can serve as a primary backup and as a
preservation master to the digital file; it could then become the print
or production master and service copies could be paper, film, optical
disks, magnetic media, or on-screen display.

Finally, KENNEY presented details re production:

     * Development and testing of a moderately-high resolution production
     scanning workstation represented a third goal of CXP; to date, 1,000
     volumes have been scanned, or about 300,000 images.

     * The resulting digital files are stored and used to produce
     hard-copy replacements for the originals and additional prints on
     demand; although the initial costs are high, scanning technology
     offers an affordable means for reformatting brittle material.

     * A technician in production mode can scan 300 pages per hour when
     performing single-sheet scanning, which is a necessity when working
     with truly brittle paper; this figure is expected to increase
     significantly with subsequent iterations of the software from Xerox;
     a three-month time-and-cost study of scanning found that the average
     300-page book would take about an hour and forty minutes to scan
     (this figure included the time for setup, which involves keying in
     primary bibliographic data, going into quality control mode to
     define page size, establishing front-to-back registration, and
     scanning sample pages to identify a default range of settings for
     the entire book--functions not dissimilar to those performed by
     filmers or those preparing a book for photocopy).

     * The final step in the scanning process involved rescans, which
     happily were few and far between, representing well under 1 percent
     of the total pages scanned.

In addition to technician time, CXP costed out equipment, amortized over
four years, the cost of storing and refreshing the digital files every
four years, and the cost of printing and binding, book-cloth binding, a
paper reproduction.  The total amounted to a little under $65 per single
300-page volume, with 30 percent overhead included--a figure competitive
with the prices currently charged by photocopy vendors.

Of course, with scanning, in addition to the paper facsimile, one is left
with a digital file from which subsequent copies of the book can be
produced for a fraction of the cost of photocopy, with readers afforded
choices in the form of these copies.

KENNEY concluded that digital technology offers an electronic means for a
library preservation effort to pay for itself.  If a brittle-book program
included the means of disseminating reprints of books that are in demand
by libraries and researchers alike, the initial investment in capture
could be recovered and used to preserve additional but less popular
books.  She disclosed that an economic model for a self-sustaining
program could be developed for CXP's report to the Commission on
Preservation and Access (CPA).

KENNEY stressed that the focus of CXP has been on obtaining high quality
in a production environment.  The use of digital technology is viewed as
an affordable alternative to other reformatting options.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
ANDRE * Overview and history of NATDP * Various agricultural CD-ROM
products created inhouse and by service bureaus * Pilot project on
Internet transmission * Additional products in progress *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Pamela ANDRE, associate director for automation, National Agricultural
Text Digitizing Program (NATDP), National Agricultural Library (NAL),
presented an overview of NATDP, which has been underway at NAL the last
four years, before Judith ZIDAR discussed the technical details.  ANDRE
defined agricultural information as a broad range of material going from
basic and applied research in the hard sciences to the one-page pamphlets
that are distributed by the cooperative state extension services on such
things as how to grow blueberries.

NATDP began in late 1986 with a meeting of representatives from the
land-grant library community to deal with the issue of electronic
information.  NAL and forty-five of these libraries banded together to
establish this project--to evaluate the technology for converting what
were then source documents in paper form into electronic form, to provide
access to that digital information, and then to distribute it.
Distributing that material to the community--the university community as
well as the extension service community, potentially down to the county
level--constituted the group's chief concern.

Since January 1988 (when the microcomputer-based scanning system was
installed at NAL), NATDP has done a variety of things, concerning which
ZIDAR would provide further details.  For example, the first technology
considered in the project's discussion phase was digital videodisc, which
indicates how long ago it was conceived.

Over the four years of this project, four separate CD-ROM products on
four different agricultural topics were created, two at a
scanning-and-OCR station installed at NAL, and two by service bureaus.
Thus, NATDP has gained comparative information in terms of those relative
costs.  Each of these products contained the full ASCII text as well as
page images of the material, or between 4,000 and 6,000 pages of material
on these disks.  Topics included aquaculture, food, agriculture and
science (i.e., international agriculture and research), acid rain, and
Agent Orange, which was the final product distributed (approximately
eighteen months before the Workshop).

The third phase of NATDP focused on delivery mechanisms other than
CD-ROM.  At the suggestion of Clifford LYNCH, who was a technical
consultant to the project at this point, NATDP became involved with the
Internet and initiated a project with the help of North Carolina State
University, in which fourteen of the land-grant university libraries are
transmitting digital images over the Internet in response to interlibrary
loan requests--a topic for another meeting.  At this point, the pilot
project had been completed for about a year and the final report would be
available shortly after the Workshop.  In the meantime, the project's
success had led to its extension.  (ANDRE noted that one of the first
things done under the program title was to select a retrieval package to
use with subsequent products; Windows Personal Librarian was the package
of choice after a lengthy evaluation.)

Three additional products had been planned and were in progress:

     1) An arrangement with the American Society of Agronomy--a
     professional society that has published the Agronomy Journal since
     about 1908--to scan and create bit-mapped images of its journal.
     ASA granted permission first to put and then to distribute this
     material in electronic form, to hold it at NAL, and to use these
     electronic images as a mechanism to deliver documents or print out
     material for patrons, among other uses.  Effectively, NAL has the
     right to use this material in support of its program.
     (Significantly, this arrangement offers a potential cooperative
     model for working with other professional societies in agriculture
     to try to do the same thing--put the journals of particular interest
     to agriculture research into electronic form.)

     2) An extension of the earlier product on aquaculture.

     3) The George Washington Carver Papers--a joint project with
     Tuskegee University to scan and convert from microfilm some 3,500
     images of Carver's papers, letters, and drawings.

It was anticipated that all of these products would appear no more than
six months after the Workshop.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
ZIDAR * (A separate arena for scanning) * Steps in creating a database *
Image capture, with and without performing OCR * Keying in tracking data
* Scanning, with electronic and manual tracking * Adjustments during
scanning process * Scanning resolutions * Compression * De-skewing and
filtering * Image capture from microform:  the papers and letters of
George Washington Carver * Equipment used for a scanning system *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Judith ZIDAR, coordinator, National Agricultural Text Digitizing Program
(NATDP), National Agricultural Library (NAL), illustrated the technical
details of NATDP, including her primary responsibility, scanning and
creating databases on a topic and putting them on CD-ROM.

(ZIDAR remarked a separate arena from the CD-ROM projects, although the
processing of the material is nearly identical, in which NATDP is also
scanning material and loading it on a Next microcomputer, which in turn
is linked to NAL's integrated library system.  Thus, searches in NAL's
bibliographic database will enable people to pull up actual page images
and text for any documents that have been entered.)

In accordance with the session's topic, ZIDAR focused her illustrated
talk on image capture, offering a primer on the three main steps in the
process:  1) assemble the printed publications; 2) design the database
(database design occurs in the process of preparing the material for
scanning; this step entails reviewing and organizing the material,
defining the contents--what will constitute a record, what kinds of
fields will be captured in terms of author, title, etc.); 3) perform a
certain amount of markup on the paper publications.  NAL performs this
task record by record, preparing work sheets or some other sort of
tracking material and designing descriptors and other enhancements to be
added to the data that will not be captured from the printed publication.
Part of this process also involves determining NATDP's file and directory
structure:  NATDP attempts to avoid putting more than approximately 100
images in a directory, because placing more than that on a CD-ROM would
reduce the access speed.

This up-front process takes approximately two weeks for a
6,000-7,000-page database.  The next step is to capture the page images.
How long this process takes is determined by the decision whether or not
to perform OCR.  Not performing OCR speeds the process, whereas text
capture requires greater care because of the quality of the image:  it
has to be straighter and allowance must be made for text on a page, not
just for the capture of photographs.

NATDP keys in tracking data, that is, a standard bibliographic record
including the title of the book and the title of the chapter, which will
later either become the access information or will be attached to the
front of a full-text record so that it is searchable.

Images are scanned from a bound or unbound publication, chiefly from
bound publications in the case of NATDP, however, because often they are
the only copies and the publications are returned to the shelves.  NATDP
usually scans one record at a time, because its database tracking system
tracks the document in that way and does not require further logical
separating of the images.  After performing optical character
recognition, NATDP moves the images off the hard disk and maintains a
volume sheet.  Though the system tracks electronically, all the
processing steps are also tracked manually with a log sheet.

ZIDAR next illustrated the kinds of adjustments that one can make when
scanning from paper and microfilm, for example, redoing images that need
special handling, setting for dithering or gray scale, and adjusting for
brightness or for the whole book at one time.

NATDP is scanning at 300 dots per inch, a standard scanning resolution.
Though adequate for capturing text that is all of a standard size, 300
dpi is unsuitable for any kind of photographic material or for very small
text.  Many scanners allow for different image formats, TIFF, of course,
being a de facto standard.  But if one intends to exchange images with
other people, the ability to scan other image formats, even if they are
less common, becomes highly desirable.

CCITT Group 4 is the standard compression for normal black-and-white
images, JPEG for gray scale or color.   ZIDAR recommended 1) using the
standard compressions, particularly if one attempts to make material
available and to allow users to download images and reuse them from
CD-ROMs; and 2) maintaining the ability to output an uncompressed image,
because in image exchange uncompressed images are more likely to be able
to cross platforms.

ZIDAR emphasized the importance of de-skewing and filtering as
requirements on NATDP's upgraded system.  For instance, scanning bound
books, particularly books published by the federal government whose pages
are skewed, and trying to scan them straight if OCR is to be performed,
is extremely time-consuming.  The same holds for filtering of
poor-quality or older materials.

ZIDAR deHXIRYVW RNZTV XZKGFIV UILN NRXILULIN, FHRMT ZH ZM VCZNKOV GSIVV
IVVOH UILN Z HRCGB-HVEVM-IVVO HVG LU GSV KZKVIH ZMW OVGGVIH LU TVLITV
DZHSRMTGLM XZIEVI GSZG SZW YVVM KILWFXVW YB GFHPVTVV FMREVIHRGB.  GSVHV
IVHFOGVW RM ZKKILCRNZGVOB 3,500 RNZTVH, DSRXS MZGWK SZW SZW HXZMMVW YB
RGH HVIERXV XLMGIZXGLI, HXRVMXV ZKKORXZGRLMH RMGVIMZGRLMZO XLIKLIZGRLM
(HZRX).  MZGWK ZOHL XIVZGVW YRYORLTIZKSRX IVXLIWH ULI ZXXVHH.  (MZGWK WRW
MLG SZEV HFXS HKVXRZORAVW VJFRKNVMG ZH Z NRXILURON HXZMMVI.

FMULIGFMZGVOB, GSV KILXVHH LU HXZMMRMT UILN NRXILURON DZH MLG ZM
FMJFZORURVW HFXXVHH, ARWZI IVKLIGVW:  YVXZFHV NRXILURON UIZNV HRAVH EZIB,
LXXZHRLMZOOB HLNV UIZNVH DVIV NRHHVW, DSRXS DRGSLFG HKVMWRMT NFXS GRNV
ZMW NLMVB XLFOW MLG YV IVXZKGFIVW.

LXI XLFOW MLG YV KVIULINVW UILN GSV HXZMMVW RNZTVH LU GSV UIZNVH.  GSV
YOVVWRMT RM GSV GVCG HRNKOB LFGKFG GVCG, DSVM LXI DZH IFM, GSZG XLFOW MLG
VEVM YV VWRGVW.  MZGWK GVHGVW ULI MVTZGREV EVIHFH KLHRGREV RNZTVH,
OZMWHXZKV EVIHFH KLIGIZRG LIRVMGZGRLM, ZMW HRMTOV- EVIHFH WFZO-KZTV
NRXILURON, MLMV LU DSRXS HVVNVW GL ZUUVXG GSV JFZORGB LU GSV RNZTV; YFG
ZOHL LM MLMV LU GSVN XLFOW LXI YV KVIULINVW.

RM HVOVXGRMT GSV NRXILURON GSVB DLFOW FHV, GSVIVULIV, MZGWK SZW LGSVI
UZXGLIH RM NRMW.  ARWZI MLGVW GDL UZXGLIH GSZG RMUOFVMXVW GSV JFZORGB LU
GSV RNZTVH:  1) GSV RMSVIVMG JFZORGB LU GSV LIRTRMZO ZMW 2) GSV ZNLFMG LU
HRAV IVWFXGRLM LM GSV KZTVH.

GSV XZIEVI KZKVIH DVIV HVOVXGVW YVXZFHV GSVB ZIV RMULINZGREV ZMW ERHFZOOB
RMGVIVHGRMT, GIVZG Z HRMTOV HFYQVXG, ZMW ZIV EZOFZYOV RM GSVRI LDM IRTSG.
GSV RNZTVH DVIV HXZMMVW ZMW WRERWVW RMGL OLTRXZO IVXLIWH YB HZRX, GSVM
WVOREVIVW, ZMW OLZWVW LMGL MZGWK'H HBHGVN, DSVIV YRYORLTIZKSRX
RMULINZGRLM GZPVM WRIVXGOB UILN GSV RNZTVH DZH ZWWVW.  HXZMMRMT DZH
XLNKOVGVW RM HFNNVI 1991 ZMW YB GSV VMW LU HFNNVI 1992 GSV WRHP DZH
HXSVWFOVW GL YV KFYORHSVW.

KILYOVNH VMXLFMGVIVW WFIRMT KILXVHHRMT RMXOFWVW GSV ULOOLDRMT:  YVXZFHV
GSV NRXILURON HXZMMRMT SZW GL YV WLMV RM Z YZGXS, ZWQFHGNVMG ULI
RMWRERWFZO KZTV EZIRZGRLMH DZH MLG KLHHRYOV.  GSV UIZNV HRAV EZIRVW LM
ZXXLFMG LU GSV MZGFIV LU GSV NZGVIRZO, ZMW GSVIVULIV HLNV LU GSV UIZNVH
DVIV NRHHVW DSROV LGSVIH DVIV QFHG KZIGRZO UIZNVH.  GSV LMOB DZB GL TL
YZXP ZMW XZKGFIV GSRH NZGVIRZO DZH GL KIRMG LFG GSV KZTV DRGS GSV
NRXILURON IVZWVI UILN GSV NRHHRMT UIZNV ZMW GSVM HXZM RG RM UILN GSV
KZTV, DSRXS DZH VCGIVNVOB GRNV-XLMHFNRMT.  GSV JFZORGB LU GSV RNZTVH
HXZMMVW UILN GSV KIRMGLFG LU GSV NRXILURON XLNKZIVW FMUZELIZYOB DRGS GSZG
LU GSV LIRTRMZO RNZTVH XZKGFIVW WRIVXGOB UILN GSV NRXILURON.  GSV
RMZYRORGB GL KVIULIN LXI ZOHL DZH Z NZQLI WRHZKKLRMGNVMG.  ZG GSV GRNV,
XLNKFGVI LFGKFG NRXILURON DZH FMZEZROZYOV GL GVHG.

GSV VJFRKNVMG FHVW ULI Z HXZMMRMT HBHGVN DZH GSV OZHG GLKRX ZWWIVHHVW YB
ARWZI.  GSV GBKV LU VJFRKNVMG GSZG LMV DLFOW KFIXSZHV ULI Z HXZMMRMT
HBHGVN RMXOFWVW:  Z NRXILXLNKFGVI, ZG OVZHG Z 386, YFG KIVUVIZYOB Z 486;
Z OZITV SZIW WRHP, 380 NVTZYBGV ZG NRMRNFN; Z NFOGR-GZHPRMT LKVIZGRMT
HBHGVN GSZG ZOOLDH LMV GL IFM HLNV GSRMTH RM YZGXS RM GSV YZXPTILFMW
DSROV HXZMMRMT LI WLRMT GVCG VWRGRMT, ULI VCZNKOV, FMRC LI LH/2 ZMW,
GSVLIVGRXZOOB, DRMWLDH; Z SRTS-HKVVW HXZMMVI ZMW HXZMMRMT HLUGDZIV GSZG
ZOOLDH LMV GL NZPV GSV EZIRLFH ZWQFHGNVMGH NVMGRLMVW VZIORVI; Z
SRTS-IVHLOFGRLM NLMRGLI (150 WKR ); LXI HLUGDZIV ZMW SZIWDZIV GL KVIULIN
GVCG IVXLTMRGRLM; ZM LKGRXZO WRHP HFYHBHGVN LM DSRXS GL ZIXSREV ZOO GSV
RNZTVH ZH GSV KILXVHHRMT RH WLMV; UROV NZMZTVNVMG ZMW GIZXPRMT HLUGDZIV.

ARWZI LKRMVW GSZG GSV HLUGDZIV LMV KFIXSZHVH DZH NLIV RNKLIGZMG GSZM GSV
SZIWDZIV ZMW NRTSG ZOHL XLHG NLIV GSZM GSV SZIWDZIV, YFG RG DZH ORPVOB GL
KILEV XIRGRXZO GL GSV HFXXVHH LI UZROFIV LU LMV'H HBHGVN.  RM ZWWRGRLM GL
Z HGZMW-ZOLMV HXZMMRMT DLIPHGZGRLM ULI RNZTV XZKGFIV, GSVM, GVCG XZKGFIV
IVJFRIVH LMV LI GDL VWRGRMT HGZGRLMH MVGDLIPVW GL GSRH HXZMMRMT HGZGRLM
GL KVIULIN VWRGRMT.  VWRGRMT GSV GVCG GZPVH GDL LI GSIVV GRNVH ZH OLMT ZH
XZKGFIRMT GSV RNZTVH.

URMZOOB, ARWZI HGIVHHVW GSV RNKLIGZMXV LU YFBRMT ZM LKVM HBHGVN GSZG ZOOLDH
ULI NLIV GSZM LMV EVMWLI, XLNKORVH DRGS HGZMWZIWH, ZMW XZM YV FKTIZWVW.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DZGVIH *BZOV FMREVIHRGB ORYIZIB'H NZHGVI KOZM GL XLMEVIG NRXILURON GL
WRTRGZO RNZTVIB (KLY) * GSV KOZXV LU VOVXGILMRX GLLOH RM GSV ORYIZIB LU
GSV UFGFIV * GSV FHVH LU RNZTVH ZMW ZM RNZTV ORYIZIB * KIRNZIB RMKFG UILN
KIVHVIEZGRLM NRXILURON * UVZGFIVH WRHGRMTFRHSRMT KLY UILN XCK ZMW PVB
SBKLGSVHVH TFRWRMT KLY * FHV LU EVMWLI HVOVXGRLM KILXVHH GL UZXRORGZGV
LITZMRAZGRLMZO DLIP * XIRGVIRZ ULI HVOVXGRMT EVMWLI * URMZORHGH ZMW
IVHFOGH LU KILXVHH ULI BZOV * PVB UZXGLI WRHGRMTFRHSRMT EVMWLIH *
XLNKLMVMGH, WVHRTM KIRMXRKOVH, ZMW HLNV VHGRNZGVW XLHGH LU KLY * ILOV LU
KIVHVIEZGRLM NZGVIRZOH RM WVEVOLKRMT RNZTRMT NZIPVG * UZXGLIH ZUUVXGRMT
JFZORGB ZMW XLHG * UZXGLIH ZUUVXGRMT GSV FHZYRORGB LU XLNKOVC WLXFNVMGH
RM RNZTV ULIN *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

WLMZOW DZGVIH, SVZW LU GSV HBHGVNH LUURXV, BZOV FMREVIHRGB ORYIZIB,
IVKLIGVW LM GSV KILTIVHH LU Z NZHGVI KOZM ULI Z KILQVXG ZG BZOV GL
XLMEVIG NRXILURON GL WRTRGZO RNZTVIB, KILQVXG LKVM YLLP (KLY).  HGZGRMT
GSZG KLY DZH RM ZM ZWEZMXVW HGZTV LU KOZMMRMT, DZGVIH WVGZROVW, RM
KZIGRXFOZI, GSV KILXVHH LU HVOVXGRMT Z EVMWLI KZIGMVI ZMW HVEVIZO PVB
RHHFVH FMWVI WRHXFHHRLM ZH BZOV KIVKZIVH GL NLEV RMGL GSV KILQVXG RGHVOU.
SV XLNNVMGVW URIHG LM GSV ERHRLM GSZG HVIEVH ZH GSV XLMGVCG LU KLY ZMW
GSVM WVHXIRYVW RGH KFIKLHV ZMW HXLKV.

DZGVIH HVVH GSV ORYIZIB LU GSV UFGFIV MLG MVXVHHZIROB ZH ZM VOVXGILMRX
ORYIZIB YFG ZH Z KOZXV GSZG TVMVIZGVH, KIVHVIEVH, ZMW RNKILEVH ULI RGH
XORVMGH IVZWB ZXXVHH GL YLGS RMGVOOVXGFZO ZMW KSBHRXZO IVXLIWVW
PMLDOVWTV.  VOVXGILMRX GLLOH NFHG URMW Z KOZXV RM GSV ORYIZIB RM GSV
XLMGVCG LU GSRH ERHRLM.  HVEVIZO ILOVH ULI VOVXGILMRX GLLOH RMXOFWV
HVIERMT ZH:  RMWRIVXG HLFIXVH LU VOVXGILMRX PMLDOVWTV LI ZH "URMWRMT"
ZRWH (GSV LM-ORMV XZGZOLTFVH, GSV ZIGRXOV-OVEVO RMWRXVH, IVTRHGVIH ULI
WLXFNVMGH ZMW ZIXSREVH); WRIVXG HLFIXVH LU IVXLIWVW PMLDOVWTV; UFOO-GVCG
RNZTVH; ZMW EZIRLFH PRMWH LU XLNKLFMW HLFIXVH LU IVXLIWVW PMLDOVWTV (GSV
HL-XZOOVW XLNKLFMW WLXFNVMGH LU SBKVIGVCG, NRCVW GVCG ZMW RNZTV,
NRCVW-GVCG RNZTV ULINZG, ZMW NFOGRNVWRZ).

KLY RH OLLPRMT KZIGRXFOZIOB ZG RNZTVH ZMW ZM RNZTV ORYIZIB, GSV FHVH GL
DSRXS RNZTVH DROO YV KFG (V.T., HGLIZTV, KIRMGRMT, YILDHRMT, ZMW GSVM FHV
ZH RMKFG ULI LGSVI KILXVHHVH), LXI ZH Z HFYHVJFVMG KILXVHH GL RNZTV
XZKGFIV, LI XIVZGRMT ZM RNZTV ORYIZIB, ZMW ZOHL KLHHRYOB TVMVIZGRMT
NRXILURON.

DSROV RMKFG DROO XLNV UILN Z EZIRVGB LU HLFIXVH, KLY RH XLMHRWVIRMT
VHKVXRZOOB RMKFG UILN KIVHVIEZGRLM NRXILURON.  Z KLHHRYOV LFGXLNV RH GSZG
GSV URON ZMW KZKVI DSRXS KILERWV GSV RMKFG ULI GSV RNZTV ORYIZIB
VEVMGFZOOB NZB TL LUU RMGL IVNLGV HGLIZTV, ZMW GSZG GSV RNZTV ORYIZIB NZB
YV GSV KIRNZIB ZXXVHH GLLO.

GSV KFIKLHV ZMW HXLKV LU KLY ULXFH LM RNZTRMT.  GSLFTS IVOZGVW GL XCK,
KLY SZH GDL UVZGFIVH DSRXS WRHGRMTFRHS RG:  1) HXZOV--XLMEVIHRLM LU
10,000 ELOFNVH RMGL WRTRGZO RNZTV ULIN; ZMW 2) HLFIXV--XLMEVIHRLM UILN
NRXILURON.  TREVM GSVHV UVZGFIVH, HVEVIZO PVB DLIPRMT SBKLGSVHVH TFRWV
KLY, RMXOFWRMT:  1) HRMXV KLY RH FHRMT NRXILURON, RG RH MLG XLMXVIMVW DRGS
GSV RNZTV ORYIZIB ZH Z KIVHVIEZGRLM NVWRFN.  2) WRTRGZO RNZTVIB XZM RNKILEV
ZXXVHH GL IVXLIWVW PMLDOVWTV GSILFTS KIRMGRMT ZMW MVGDLIP WRHGIRYFGRLM ZG
Z NLWVHG RMXIVNVMGZO XLHG LU NRXILURON.  3) XZKGFIRMT ZMW HGLIRMT WLXFNVMGH
RM Z WRTRGZO RNZTV ULIN RH MVXVHHZIB GL UFIGSVI RNKILEVNVMGH RM ZXXVHH.
(KLY WRHGRMTFRHSVH YVGDVVM GSV RNZTRMT, WRTRGRARMT KILXVHH ZMW LXI,
DSRXS ZG GSRH HGZTV RG WLVH MLG KOZM GL KVIULIN.)

XFIIVMGOB RM RGH URIHG LI LITZMRAZGRLMZO KSZHV, KLY ULFMW GSZG RG XLFOW
FHV Z EVMWLI HVOVXGRLM KILXVHH GL UZXRORGZGV Z TLLW WVZO LU GSV
LITZMRAZGRLMZO DLIP (V.T., XIVZGRMT Z KILQVXG GVZN ZMW ZWERHLIB YLZIW,
XLMURINRMT GSV EZORWRGB LU GSV KOZM, VHGZYORHSRMT GSV XLHG LU GSV KILQVXG
ZMW Z YFWTVG, HVOVXGRMT GSV NZGVIRZOH GL XLMEVIG, ZMW GSVM IZRHRMT GSV
MVXVHHZIB UFMWH).

KLY WVEVOLKVW MFNVILFH HVOVXGRLM XIRGVIRZ, RMXOFWRMT:  Z URIN XLNNRGGVW
GL RNZTV-WLXFNVMG NZMZTVNVMG, GSV ZYRORGB GL HVIEV ZH HBHGVNH RMGVTIZGLI
RM Z OZITV-HXZOV KILQVXG LEVI HVEVIZO BVZIH, RMGVIVHG RM WVEVOLKRMT GSV
IVJFRHRGV HLUGDZIV ZH Z HGZMWZIW IZGSVI GSZM Z XFHGLN KILWFXG, ZMW Z
DROORMTMVHH GL RMEVHG HFYHGZMGRZO IVHLFIXVH RM GSV KILQVXG RGHVOU.

GDL EVMWLIH, WVX ZMW CVILC, DVIV HVOVXGVW ZH URMZORHGH RM LXGLYVI 1991,
ZMW DRGS GSV HFKKLIG LU GSV XLNNRHHRLM LM KIVHVIEZGRLM ZMW ZXXVHH, VZXS
DZH XLNNRHHRLMVW GL TVMVIZGV Z WVGZROVW IVJFRIVNVMGH ZMZOBHRH ULI GSV
KILQVXG ZMW GSVM GL HFYNRG Z ULINZO KILKLHZO ULI GSV XLNKOVGRLM LU GSV
KILQVXG, DSRXS RMXOFWVW Z YFWTVG ZMW XLHGH. GSV GVINH DVIV GSZG KLY DLFOW
KZB GSV OLHVI.  GSV IVHFOGH ULI BZOV LU RMELOERMT Z EVMWLI RMXOFWVW:
YILZW RMELOEVNVMG LU BZOV HGZUU ZXILHH GSV YLZIW ZG Z IVOZGREVOB OLD
XLHG, DSRXS NZB SZEV OLMT-GVIN HRTMRURXZMXV RM XZIIBRMT LFG GSV KILQVXG
(GDVMGB-UREV GL GSRIGB FMREVIHRGB KVLKOV ZIV VMTZTVW RM KLY); YVGGVI
FMWVIHGZMWRMT LU GSV UZXGLIH GSZG ZUUVXG XLIKLIZGV IVHKLMHV GL NZIPVGH
ULI RNZTRMT KILWFXGH; Z XLNKVGRGREV KILKLHZO; ZMW Z NLIV HLKSRHGRXZGVW
ERVD LU GSV RNZTRMT NZIPVGH.

GSV NLHG RNKLIGZMG UZXGLI GSZG WRHGRMTFRHSVW GSV EVMWLIH FMWVI
XLMHRWVIZGRLM DZH GSVRI RWVMGRURXZGRLM DRGS GSV XFHGLNVI.  GSV HRAV ZMW
RMGVIMZO XLNKOVCRGB LU GSV XLNKZMB ZOHL DZH ZM RNKLIGZMG UZXGLI.  KLY DZH
OLLPRMT ZG OZITV XLNKZMRVH GSZG SZW HFYHGZMGRZO IVHLFIXVH.  RM GSV VMW,
GSV KILXVHH TVMVIZGVW ULI BZOV GDL XLNKVGRGREV KILKLHZOH, DRGS CVILC'H
GSV XOVZI DRMMVI.  DZGVIH GSVM WVHXIRYVW GSV XLNKLMVMGH LU GSV KILKLHZO,
GSV WVHRTM KIRMXRKOVH, ZMW HLNV LU GSV XLHGH VHGRNZGVW ULI GSV KILXVHH.

XLNKLMVMGH ZIV VHHVMGRZOOB ULFI:  Z XLMEVIHRLM HFYHBHGVN, Z
MVGDLIP-ZXXVHHRYOV HGLIZTV HFYHBHGVN ULI 10,000 YLLPH (ZMW KLY VCKVXGH
200 GL 600 WKR HGLIZTV), YILDHRMT HGZGRLMH WRHGIRYFGVW LM GSV XZNKFH
MVGDLIP, ZMW MVGDLIP ZXXVHH GL GSV RNZTV KIRMGVIH.

ZNLMT GSV WVHRTM KIRMXRKOVH, KLY DZMGVW XLMEVIHRLM ZG GSV SRTSVHG
KLHHRYOV IVHLOFGRLM.  ZHHFNRMT GRUU UROVH, GRUU UROVH DRGS TILFK 4
XLNKIVHHRLM, GXK/RK, ZMW VGSVIMVG MVGDLIP LM XZNKFH, KLY DZMGVW Z
XORVMG-HVIEVI ZKKILZXS DRGS RNZTV WLXFNVMGH WRHGIRYFGVW GL GSV
DLIPHGZGRLMH ZMW NZWV ZXXVHHRYOV GSILFTS MZGREV DLIPHGZGRLM RMGVIUZXVH
HFXS ZH DRMWLDH.  KLY ZOHL RMHRHGVW LM Z KSZHVW ZKKILZXS GL
RNKOVNVMGZGRLM:  1) Z HGZMW-ZOLMV, HRMTOV-FHVI, OLD-XLHG VMGIB RMGL GSV
YFHRMVHH DRGS Z DLIPHGZGRLM ULXFHVW LM XLMEVIHRLM ZMW ZOOLDRMT KLY GL
VCKOLIV FHVI ZXXVHH; 2) NLEVNVMG RMGL Z SRTSVI-ELOFNV XLMEVIHRLM DRGS
MVGDLIP-ZXXVHHRYOV HGLIZTV ZMW NFOGRKOV ZXXVHH HGZGRLMH; ZMW 3) Z
SRTS-ELOFNV XLMEVIHRLM, UFOO-XZKZXRGB HGLIZTV, ZMW NFOGRKOV YILDHRMT
HGZGRLMH WRHGIRYFGVW GSILFTSLFG GSV XZNKFH.

GSV XLHGH KILKLHVW ULI HGZIG-FK ZHHFNVW GSV VCRHGVMXV LU GSV BZOV MVGDLIP
ZMW RGH GDL WLXFGVXS RNZTV KIRMGVIH.  LGSVI HGZIG-FK XLHGH ZIV VHGRNZGVW
ZG $1 NROORLM LEVI GSV GSIVV KSZHVH.  ZG GSV VMW LU GSV KILQVXG, GSV ZMMFZO
LKVIZGRMT XLHGH VHGRNZGVW KIRNZIROB ULI GSV HLUGDZIV ZMW SZIWDZIV KILKLHVW
XLNV GL ZYLFG $60,000, YFG GSVHV VCXOFWV XLHGH ULI OZYLI MVVWVW RM GSV
XLMEVIHRLM KILXVHH, MVGDLIP ZMW KIRMGVI FHZTV, ZMW UZXRORGRVH NZMZTVNVMG.

URMZOOB, GSV HVOVXGRLM KILXVHH KILWFXVW ULI BZOV Z NLIV HLKSRHGRXZGVW
ERVD LU GSV RNZTRMT NZIPVGH:  GSV NZMZTVNVMG LU XLNKOVC WLXFNVMGH RM
RNZTV ULIN RH MLG Z KIVHVIEZGRLM KILYOVN, MLG Z ORYIZIB KILYOVN, YFG Z
TVMVIZO KILYOVN RM Z YILZW, TVMVIZO RMWFHGIB.  KIVHVIEZGRLM NZGVIRZOH ZIV
FHVUFO ULI WVEVOLKRMT GSZG NZIPVG YVXZFHV LU GSV JFZORGRVH LU GSV
NZGVIRZO.  ULI VCZNKOV, NFXS LU RG RH LFG LU XLKBIRTSG.  GSV IVHLOFGRLM
LU PVB RHHFVH HFXS ZH GSV JFZORGB LU HXZMMRMT ZMW RNZTV YILDHRMT ZOHL
DROO ZUUVXG WVEVOLKNVMG LU GSZG NZIPVG.

GSV GVXSMLOLTB RH IVZWROB ZEZROZYOV YFG XSZMTRMT IZKRWOB.  RM GSRH
XLMGVCG LU IZKRW XSZMTV, HVEVIZO UZXGLIH ZUUVXG JFZORGB ZMW XLHG, GL
DSRXS KLY RMGVMWH GL KZB KZIGRXFOZI ZGGVMGRLM, ULI VCZNKOV, GSV EZIRLFH
OVEVOH LU IVHLOFGRLM GSZG XZM YV ZXSRVEVW.  KLY YVORVEVH RG XZM YIRMT
IVHLOFGRLM FK GL 600 WKR, YFG ZM RMGVIKLOZGRLM KILXVHH UILN 400 GL 600 RH
NLIV ORPVOB.  GSV EZIRZGRLM JFZORGB RM NRXILURON DROO KILEV GL YV Z
SRTSOB RNKLIGZMG UZXGLI.  KLY NZB IVVCZNRMV GSV HGZMWZIWH FHVW GL URON RM
GSV URIHG KOZXV YB OLLPRMT ZG GSRH KILXVHH ZH Z ULOOLD-LM GL NRXILURONRMT.

LGSVI RNKLIGZMG UZXGLIH RMXOFWV:  GSV GVXSMRJFVH ZEZROZYOV GL GSV
LKVIZGLI ULI SZMWORMT NZGVIRZO, GSV DZBH LU RMGVTIZGRMT JFZORGB XLMGILO
RMGL GSV WRTRGRARMT DLIP UOLD, ZMW Z DLIP UOLD GSZG RMXOFWVH RMWVCRMT ZMW
HGLIZTV.  KLY'H IVJFRIVNVMG DZH GL YV ZYOV GL WVZO DRGS JFZORGB XLMGILO
ZG GSV KLRMG LU HXZMMRMT.  GSFH, GSZMPH GL CVILC, KLY ZMGRXRKZGVH SZERMT
Z NVXSZMRHN DSRXS DROO ZOOLD RG MLG LMOB GL HXZM RM YZGXS ULIN, YFG GL
IVERVD GSV NZGVIRZO ZH RG TLVH GSILFTS GSV HXZMMVI ZMW XLMGILO JFZORGB
UILN GSV LFGHVG.

GSV HGZMWZIWH ULI NVZHFIRMT JFZORGB ZMW XLHGH WVKVMW TIVZGOB LM GSV FHVH
LU GSV NZGVIRZO, RMXOFWRMT HFYHVJFVMG LXI, HGLIZTV, KIRMGRMT, ZMW
YILDHRMT.  YFG VHKVXRZOOB ZG RHHFV ULI KLY RH GSV UZXRORGB ULI YILDHRMT.
GSRH UZXRORGB, DZGVIH HZRW, RH KVISZKH GSV DVZPVHG ZHKVXG LU RNZTRMT
GVXSMLOLTB ZMW GSV NLHG RM MVVW LU WVEVOLKNVMG.

Z EZIRVGB LU UZXGLIH ZUUVXG GSV FHZYRORGB LU XLNKOVC WLXFNVMGH RM RNZTV
ULIN, ZNLMT GSVN:  1) GSV ZYRORGB LU GSV HBHGVN GL SZMWOV GSV UFOO IZMTV
LU WLXFNVMG GBKVH, MLG QFHG NLMLTIZKSH YFG HVIRZOH, NFOGR-KZIG
NLMLTIZKSH, ZMW NZMFHXIRKGH; 2) GSV OLXZGRLM LU GSV WZGZYZHV LU IVXLIW
ULI YRYORLTIZKSRX RMULINZGRLM ZYLFG GSV RNZTV WLXFNVMG, DSRXS KLY DZMGH
GL VMGVI LMXV ZMW RM GSV NLHG FHVUFO KOZXV, GSV LM-ORMV XZGZOLT; 3) Z
WLXFNVMG RWVMGRURVI ULI IVUVIVMXRMT GSV YRYORLTIZKSRX RMULINZGRLM RM LMV
KOZXV ZMW GSV RNZTVH RM ZMLGSVI; 4) GSV GVXSMRJFV ULI NZPRMT GSV YZHRX
RMGVIMZO HGIFXGFIV LU GSV WLXFNVMG ZXXVHHRYOV GL GSV IVZWVI; ZMW URMZOOB,
5) GSV KSBHRXZO KIVHVMGZGRLM LM GSV XIG LU GSLHV WLXFNVMGH.  KLY RH IVZWB
GL XLNKOVGV GSRH KSZHV MLD.  LMV OZHG WVXRHRLM RMELOEVH WVXRWRMT DSRXS
NZGVIRZO GL HXZM.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
WRHXFHHRLM * GRUU UROVH XLMHGRGFGV WV UZXGL HGZMWZIW * MZIZ'H VCKVIRVMXV
DRGS RNZTV XLMEVIHRLM HLUGDZIV ZMW GVCG XLMEVIHRLM * IUX 1314 *
XLMHRWVIZYOV UOFC XLMXVIMRMT ZEZROZYOV SZIWDZIV ZMW HLUGDZIV HLOFGRLMH *
MZO GSILFTS-KFG IZGV WFIRMT HXZMMRMT * DRMWLD NZMZTVNVMG JFVHGRLMH *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

RM GSV JFVHGRLM-ZMW-ZMHDVI KVIRLW GSZG ULOOLDVW DZGVIH'H KIVHVMGZGRLM,
GSV ULOOLDRMT KLRMGH VNVITVW:

     * ARWZI'H HGZGVNVMG ZYLFG FHRMT GRUU UROVH ZH Z HGZMWZIW NVZMG WV
     UZXGL HGZMWZIW.  GSRH RH DSZG NLHG KVLKOV FHV ZMW GBKRXZOOB VCXSZMTV
     DRGS LGSVI TILFKH, ZXILHH KOZGULINH, LI VEVM LXXZHRLMZOOB ZXILHH
     WRHKOZB HLUGDZIV.

     * SLONVH XLNNVMGVW LM GSV FMHFXXVHHUFO VCKVIRVMXV LU MZIZ RM
     ZGGVNKGRMT GL IFM RNZTV-XLMEVIHRLM HLUGDZIV LI GL VCXSZMTV YVGDVVM
     ZKKORXZGRLMH:  DSZG ZIV HFKKLHVWOB GRUU UROVH TL RMGL LGSVI HLUGDZIV
     GSZG RH HFKKLHVW GL YV ZYOV GL ZXXVKG GRUU YFG XZMMLG IVXLTMRAV GSV
     ULINZG ZMW XZMMLG WVZO DRGS RG, ZMW GSFH IVMWVIH GSV VCXSZMTV
     FHVOVHH.  IV GVCG XLMEVIHRLM, SV MLGVW GSV WRUUVIVMG IVXLTMRGRLM
     IZGVH LYGZRMVW YB HFYHGRGFGRMT GSV NZPV ZMW NLWVO LU HXZMMVIH RM
     MZIZ'H IVXVMG GVHG LU ZM "RMGVOORTVMG" XSZIZXGVI-IVXLTMRGRLM KILWFXG
     ULI Z MVD XLNKZMB.  RM GSV HVOVXGRLM LU SZIWDZIV ZMW HLUGDZIV,
     SLONVH ZITFVW, HLUGDZIV ML OLMTVI XLMHGRGFGVH GSV LEVIIRWRMT UZXGLI
     RG WRW FMGRO ZYLFG Z BVZI ZTL; IZGSVI RG RH KVISZKH RNKLIGZMG GL
     OLLP ZG YLGS MLD.

     * WZMMB XLSVM ZMW ZOZM PZGA LU GSV FMREVIHRGB LU HLFGSVIM XZORULIMRZ
     RMULINZGRLM HXRVMXVH RMHGRGFGV YVTZM XRIXFOZGRMT ZH ZM RMGVIMVG IUX
     (IUX 1314) ZYLFG Z NLMGS ZTL Z HGZMWZIW ULI Z GRUU RMGVIXSZMTV
     ULINZG ULI RMGVIMVG WRHGIRYFGRLM LU NLMLXSILNV YRG-NZKKVW RNZTVH,
     DSRXS OBMXS HZRW SV YVORVEVW DLFOW YV FHVW ZH Z WV UZXGL HGZMWZIW.

     * UOVRHXSSZFVI'H RNKIVHHRLM UILN SVZIRMT GSVHV IVKLIGH ZMW GSRMPRMT
     ZYLFG ZN'H VCKVIRVMXV DZH GSZG GSVIV RH XLMHRWVIZYOV UOFC XLMXVIMRMT
     ZEZROZYOV SZIWDZIV ZMW HLUGDZIV HLOFGRLMH.  SLLGLM ZTIVVW ZMW
     XLNNVMGVW ZG GSV HZNV GRNV LM ARWZI'H HGZGVNVMG GSZG GSV VJFRKNVMG
     VNKOLBVW ZUUVXGH GSV IVHFOGH KILWFXVW.  LMV XZMMLG WIZD Z XLNKOVGV
     XLMXOFHRLM YB HZBRMT RG RH WRUURXFOG LI RNKLHHRYOV GL KVIULIN LXI
     UILN HXZMMRMT NRXILURON, ULI VCZNKOV, DRGS GSZG WVERXV,  GSZG HVG LU
     KZIZNVGVIH, ZMW HBHGVN IVJFRIVNVMGH, YVXZFHV MFNVILFH LGSVI KVLKOV
     ZIV ZXXLNKORHSRMT QFHG GSZG, FHRMT LGSVI XLNKLMVMGH, KVISZKH.
     SLLGLM LKRMVW GSZG YLGS GSV SZIWDZIV ZMW GSV HLUGDZIV DVIV SRTSOB
     RNKLIGZMG.  NLHG LU GSV KILYOVNH WRHXFHHVW GLWZB SZEV YVVM HLOEVW RM
     MFNVILFH WRUUVIVMG DZBH YB LGSVI KVLKOV.  GSLFTS RG RH TLLW GL YV
     XLTMRAZMG LU EZIRLFH VCKVIRVMXVH, GSRH RH MLG GL HZB GSZG RG DROO
     ZODZBH YV GSFH.

     * ZG MZO, GSV GSILFTS-KFG IZGV LU GSV HXZMMRMT KILXVHH ULI KZKVI,
     KZTV YB KZTV, KVIULINRMT LXI, IZMTVH UILN 300 GL 600 KZTVH KVI WZB;
     MLG KVIULINRMT LXI RH XLMHRWVIZYOB UZHGVI, ZOGSLFTS SLD NFXS UZHGVI
     RH MLG PMLDM.  GSRH RH ULI HXZMMRMT UILN YLFMW YLLPH, DSRXS RH NFXS
     HOLDVI.

     * DZGVIH XLNNVMGVW LM DRMWLD NZMZTVNVMG JFVHGRLMH:  WVX KILKLHVW ZM
     C-DRMWLDH HLOFGRLM DSRXS DZH KILYOVNZGRXZO ULI GDL IVZHLMH.  LMV DZH
     KLY'H IVJFRIVNVMG GL YV ZYOV GL NZMRKFOZGV RNZTVH LM GSV DLIPHGZGRLM
     ZMW YIRMT GSVN WLDM GL GSV DLIPHGZGRLM RGHVOU ZMW GSV LGSVI DZH
     MVGDLIP FHZTV.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
GSLNZ * ROOFHGIZGRLM LU WVURXRVMXRVH RM HXZMMRMT ZMW HGLIZTV KILXVHH *
RNZTV JFZORGB RM GSRH KILXVHH * WRUUVIVMG XLHGH VMGZROVW YB YVGGVI RNZTV
JFZORGB * GVXSMRJFVH ULI LEVIXLNRMT EZIRLFH WV-URXRVMXRVH:  URCVW
GSIVHSLOWRMT, WBMZNRX GSIVHSLOWRMT, WRGSVIRMT, RNZTV NVITV * KZTV VWTV
VUUVXGH *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

TVLITV GSLNZ, XSRVU, XLNNFMRXZGRLMH VMTRMVVIRMT YIZMXS, MZGRLMZO ORYIZIB
LU NVWRXRMV (MON), ROOFHGIZGVW HVEVIZO LU GSV WVURXRVMXRVH WRHXFHHVW YB
GSV KIVERLFH HKVZPVIH.  SV RMGILWFXVW GSV GLKRX LU HKVXRZO KILYOVNH YB
MLGRMT GSV ZWEZMGZTVH LU VOVXGILMRX RNZTRMT.  ULI VCZNKOV, RG RH IVTVMVIZYOV
YVXZFHV RG RH Z XLWVW UROV, ZMW IVZO-GRNV JFZORGB XLMGILO RH KLHHRYOV DRGS
VOVXGILMRX XZKGFIV, DSVIVZH RM KSLGLTIZKSRX XZKGFIV RG RH MLG.

LMV LU GSV WRUURXFOGRVH WRHXFHHVW RM GSV HXZMMRMT ZMW HGLIZTV KILXVHH DZH
RNZTV JFZORGB DSRXS, DRGSLFG YVOZYLIRMT GSV LYERLFH, NVZMH WRUUVIVMG
GSRMTH ULI NZKH, NVWRXZO C-IZBH, LI YILZWXZHG GVOVERHRLM.  RM GSV XZHV LU
WLXFNVMGH, GSLNZ HZRW, RNZTV JFZORGB YLROH WLDM GL OVTRYRORGB LU GSV
GVCGFZO KZIGH, ZMW URWVORGB RM GSV XZHV LU TIZB LI XLOLI KSLGL KIRMG-GBKV
NZGVIRZO.  OVTRYRORGB YLROH WLDM GL HXZM WVMHRGB, GSV HGZMWZIW RM NLHG
XZHVH YVRMT 300 WKR.  RMXIVZHRMT GSV IVHLOFGRLM DRGS HXZMMVIH GSZG
KVIULIN 600 LI 1200 WKR, SLDVEVI, XLNVH ZG Z XLHG.

YVGGVI RNZTV JFZORGB VMGZROH ZG OVZHG ULFI WRUUVIVMG PRMWH LU XLHGH:  1)
VJFRKNVMG XLHGH, YVXZFHV GSV XXW (R.V., XSZITV-XLFKOV WVERXV) DRGS
TIVZGVI MFNYVI LU VOVNVMGH XLHGH NLIV;  2) GRNV XLHGH GSZG GIZMHOZGV GL
GSV ZXGFZO XZKGFIV XLHGH, YVXZFHV NZMFZO OZYLI RH RMELOEVW (GSV GRNV RH
ZOHL WVKVMWVMG LM GSV UZXG GSZG NLIV WZGZ SZH GL YV NLEVW ZILFMW RM GSV
NZXSRMV RM GSV HXZMMRMT LI MVGDLIP WVERXVH GSZG KVIULIN GSV HXZMMRMT ZH
DVOO ZH GSV HGLIZTV);  3) NVWRZ XLHGH, YVXZFHV ZG SRTS IVHLOFGRLMH OZITVI
UROVH SZEV GL YV HGLIVW; ZMW 4) GIZMHNRHHRLM XLHGH, YVXZFHV GSVIV RH QFHG
NLIV WZGZ GL YV GIZMHNRGGVW.

YFG DSROV IVHLOFGRLM GZPVH XZIV LU GSV RHHFV LU OVTRYRORGB RM RNZTV
JFZORGB, LGSVI WVURXRVMXRVH SZEV GL WL DRGS XLMGIZHG ZMW VOVNVMGH LM GSV
KZTV HXZMMVW LI GSV RNZTV GSZG MVVWVW GL YV IVNLEVW LI XOZIRURVW.  GSFH,
GSLNZ KILXVVWVW GL ROOFHGIZGV EZIRLFH WVURXRVMXRVH, SLD GSVB ZIV
NZMRUVHGVW, ZMW HVEVIZO GVXSMRJFVH GL LEVIXLNV GSVN.

URCVW GSIVHSLOWRMT DZH GSV URIHG GVXSMRJFV WVHXIRYVW, HFRGZYOV ULI
YOZXP-ZMW-DSRGV GVCG, DSVM GSV XLMGIZHG WLVH MLG EZIB LEVI GSV KZTV.  LMV
XZM SZEV NZMB WRUUVIVMG GSIVHSLOW OVEVOH RM HXZMMRMT WVERXVH.  GSFH,
GSLNZ LUUVIVW ZM VCZNKOV LU VCGIVNVOB KLLI XLMGIZHG, DSRXS IVHFOGVW UILN
GSV UZXG GSZG GSV HGLXP DZH Z SVZEB IVW.  GSRH RH GSV HLIG LU RNZTV GSZG
DSVM NRXILURONVW UZROH GL KILERWV ZMB OVTRYRORGB DSZGHLVEVI.  URCVW
GSIVHSLOWRMT RH GSV DZB GL XSZMTV GSV YOZXP-GL-IVW XLMGIZHG GL GSV
WVHRIVW YOZXP-GL-DSRGV XLMGIZHG.

LGSVI VCZNKOVH RMXOFWVW NZGVIRZO GSZG SZW YVVM YILDMVW LI BVOOLDVW YB
ZTV.  GSRH DZH ZOHL Z XZHV LU XLMGIZHG WVURXRVMXB, ZMW XLIIVXGRLM DZH
WLMV YB URCVW GSIVHSLOWRMT.  Z URMZO VCZNKOV YLROH WLDM GL GSV HZNV
GSRMT, HORTSG EZIRZYRORGB, YFG RG RH MLG HRTMRURXZMG.  URCVW GSIVHSLOWRMT
WLXFNVMGZGRLM ZMW FHVI TFRWVH, ZH DVOO ZH TFRWVH GSZG UIVVNZM KIVKZIVW ULI
GVZXSVIH HL GSZG GSVB NZB YVTRM FHRMT GSV XLMGVMG LU GSV HBHGVN ZG LMXV.

EVXXRZ WVHXIRYVW GSV VEZOFZGRLM KILQVXG YVULIV GZOPRMT ZYLFG GSV KFYORX
FHVIH LU ZN, ORNRGRMT SVI IVNZIPH GL KFYORX ORYIZIRVH, YVXZFHV UIVVNZM
DLFOW GZOP NLIV HKVXRURXZOOB ZYLFG HXSLLOH UILN PRMWVITZIGVM GL GDVOUGS
TIZWV (P-12).   SZERMT HGZIGVW RM HKIRMT 1991, GSV VEZOFZGRLM XFIIVMGOB
RMELOEVH GVHGRMT LU GSV NZXRMGLHS RNKOVNVMGZGRLM LU ZN.  HRMXV GSV
KIRNZIB TLZO LU GSRH VEZOFZGRLM RH GL WVGVINRMV GSV NLHG ZKKILKIRZGV
ZFWRVMXV LI ZFWRVMXVH ULI ZN, EVIB WRUUVIVMG HRGVH DVIV HVOVXGVW.  GSRH
NZPVH VEZOFZGRLM WRUURXFOG YVXZFHV LU GSV EZIBRMT WVTIVVH LU GVXSMLOLTB
ORGVIZXB ZNLMT GSV HRGVH.  ZN RH HRGFZGVW RM ULIGB-ULFI OLXZGRLMH, LU
DSRXS HRC ZIV KFYORX ORYIZIRVH ZMW HRCGVVM ZIV HXSLLOH.  IVKIVHVMGVW
ZNLMT GSV HXSLLOH ZIV VOVNVMGZIB, QFMRLI SRTS, ZMW SRTS HXSLLOH.
WRHGIRXG LUURXVH ZOHL ZIV RMELOEVW RM GSV VEZOFZGRLM, DSRXS DROO
XLMXOFWV RM HFNNVI 1993.

EVXXRZ ULXFHVW GSV IVNZRMWVI LU SVI GZOP LM GSV HRC KFYORX ORYIZIRVH, LMV
LU DSRXS WLFYOVH ZH Z HGZGV ORYIZIB.  GSVB IVKIVHVMG Z IZMTV LU
TVLTIZKSRX ZIVZH ZMW Z IZMTV LU WVNLTIZKSRX XSZIZXGVIRHGRXH.  ULI
VCZNKOV, GSIVV ZIV OLXZGVW RM FIYZM HVGGRMTH, GDL RM IFIZO HVGGRMTH, ZMW
LMV RM Z HFYFIYZM HVGGRMT.  Z IZMTV LU GVXSMRXZO VCKVIGRHV RH GL YV ULFMW
ZNLMT GSVHV UZXRORGRVH ZH DVOO.  ULI VCZNKOV, LMV RH ZM "ZKKOV ORYIZIB LU
GSV UFGFIV," DSROV GDL LGSVIH ZIV IFIZO LMV-ILLN ORYIZIRVH--RM LMV, ZN
HRGH ZG GSV UILMG WVHP MVCG GL Z GIZXGLI NZMFZO.

ZOO KFYORX ORYIZIRVH SZEV YVVM VCGIVNVOB VMGSFHRZHGRX, HFKKLIGREV, ZMW
ZKKIVXRZGREV LU GSV DLIP GSZG ZN SZH YVVM WLRMT.  EVXXRZ XSZIZXGVIRAVW
EZIRLFH FHVIH:  NLHG FHVIH RM KFYORX ORYIZIRVH WVHXIRYV GSVNHVOEVH ZH
TVMVIZO IVZWVIH; LU GSV HGFWVMGH DSL FHV ZN RM GSV KFYORX ORYIZIRVH,
GSLHV RM ULFIGS TIZWV ZMW ZYLEV HVVN NLHG RMGVIVHGVW.  KFYORX ORYIZIRVH
RM IFIZO HRGVH GVMW GL ZGGIZXG IVGRIVW KVLKOV, DSL SZEV YVVM SRTSOB
IVXVKGREV GL ZN.  FHVIH GVMW GL UZOO RMGL GDL ZWWRGRLMZO XZGVTLIRVH:
KVLKOV RMGVIVHGVW RM GSV XLMGVMG ZMW SRHGLIRXZO XLMMLGZGRLMH LU GSVHV
KIRNZIB IVHLFIXVH, ZMW GSLHV UZHXRMZGVW YB GSV GVXSMLOLTB.  GSV ULINZG
IVXVRERMT GSV NLHG XLNNVMGH SZH YVVM NLGRLM KRXGFIVH.  GSV ZWFOG FHVIH RM
KFYORX ORYIZIRVH ZIV NLIV XLNULIGZYOV DRGS RYN XLNKFGVIH, DSVIVZH BLFMT
KVLKOV HVVN XLNULIGZYOV DRGS VRGSVI RYN LI NZXRMGLHS, ZOGSLFTS NLHG LU
GSVN HVVN GL XLNV UILN Z NZXRMGLHS YZXPTILFMW.  GSRH HZNV GVMWVMXB RH
ULFMW RM GSV HXSLLOH.

DSZG PRMWH LU GSRMTH WL FHVIH WL DRGS ZN?  RM Z KFYORX ORYIZIB GSVIV ZIV
GDL NZRM TLZOH LI DZBH GSZG ZN RH YVRMT FHVW:  ZH ZM RMWRERWFZO OVZIMRMT
GLLO, ZMW ZH Z OVRHFIV ZXGRERGB.  ZWFOG OVZIMRMT DZH LMV ZIVZ GSZG EVXXRZ
DLFOW SRTSORTSG ZH Z KLHHRYOV ZKKORXZGRLM ULI Z GLLO HFXS ZH ZN.  HSV
WVHXIRYVW Z KZGILM LU Z IFIZO KFYORX ORYIZIB DSL XLNVH RM VEVIB WZB LM
SRH OFMXS SLFI ZMW ORGVIZOOB IVZWH ZN, NVGSLWRXZOOB TLRMT GSILFTS GSV
XLOOVXGRLM RNZTV YB RNZTV.  ZG GSV VMW LU SRH SLFI SV NZPVH ZM VOVXGILMRX
YLLPNZIP, KFGH RG RM SRH KLXPVG, ZMW IVGFIMH GL DLIP.  GSV MVCG WZB SV
XLNVH RM ZMW IVHFNVH DSVIV SV OVUG LUU.  RMGVIVHGRMTOB, GSRH NZM SZW
MVEVI YVVM RM GSV ORYIZIB YVULIV SV FHVW ZN.  RM ZMLGSVI HNZOO, IFIZO
ORYIZIB, GSV XLLIWRMZGLI IVKLIGH GSZG ZN RH Z KLKFOZI ZXGRERGB ULI HLNV
LU GSV LOWVI, IVGRIVW KVLKOV RM GSV XLNNFMRGB, DSL LIWRMZIROB DLFOW MLG
FHV "GSLHV GSRMTH,"--XLNKFGVIH.  ZMLGSVI VCZNKOV LU ZWFOG OVZIMRMT RM
KFYORX ORYIZIRVH RH YLLP TILFKH, LMV LU DSRXS, RM KZIGRXFOZI, RH FHRMT ZN
ZH KZIG LU RGH IVZWRMT LM RMWFHGIRZORAZGRLM, RMGVTIZGRLM, ZMW FIYZMRAZGRLM
RM GSV VZIOB 1900H.

LMV ORYIZIB IVKLIGH GSZG Z UZNROB RH FHRMT ZN GL SVOK VWFXZGV GSVRI
XSROWIVM.  RM ZMLGSVI RMHGZMXV, RMWRERWFZOH UILN Z OLXZO NFHVFN XZNV RM
GL FHV ZN GL KIVKZIV ZM VCSRYRG LM GLBH LU GSV KZHG.  GSVHV GDL VCZNKOVH
VNKSZHRAV GSV NRHHRLM LU GSV KFYORX ORYIZIB ZH Z XFOGFIZO RMHGRGFGRLM,
IVZXSRMT LFG GL KVLKOV DSL WL MLG SZEV GSV HZNV IVHLFIXVH ZEZROZYOV GL
GSLHV DSL OREV RM Z NVGILKLORGZM ZIVZ LI SZEV ZXXVHH GL Z NZQLI ORYIZIB.
LMV IFIZO ORYIZIB IVKLIGH GSZG QFMRLI SRTS HXSLLO HGFWVMGH RM OZITV
MFNYVIH XZNV RM LMV ZUGVIMLLM GL FHV ZN ULI VMGVIGZRMNVMG.  Z MFNYVI LU
KFYORX ORYIZIRVH IVKLIGVW TIVZG RMGVIVHG ZNLMT KLHGXZIW XLOOVXGLIH RM GSV
WVGILRG XLOOVXGRLM, DSRXS DZH VHHVMGRZOOB Z XLOOVXGRLM LU RNZTVH FHVW LM
KLHGXZIWH ZILFMW GSV GFIM LU GSV XVMGFIB.  GIZRM YFUUH ZIV HRNROZIOB
RMGVIVHGVW YVXZFHV GSZG DZH Z GRNV LU TIVZG RMGVIVHG RM IZROILZWRMT.
KVLKOV, RG DZH ULFMW, IVOZGV GL GSRMTH GSZG GSVB PMLD LU URIHGSZMW.  ULI
VCZNKOV, RM YLGS IFIZO KFYORX ORYIZIRVH DSVIV ZN DZH NZWV ZEZROZYOV,
LYHVIEVIH IVKLIGVW GSZG GSV LOWVI KVLKOV DRGS KVIHLMZO IVNVNYIZMXVH LU
GSV GFIM LU GSV XVMGFIB DVIV TIZERGZGRMT GL GSV WVGILRG XLOOVXGRLM.
GSVHV VCZNKOVH HVIEVW GL FMWVIHXLIV NRXSVOHLM'H LYHVIEZGRLM IV GSV
RMGVTIZGRLM LU VOVXGILMRX GLLOH ZMW RWVZH--GSZG KVLKOV OVZIM YVHG DSVM
GSV NZGVIRZO IVOZGVH GL HLNVGSRMT GSVB PMLD.

EVXXRZ NZWV GSV URMZO KLRMG GSZG RM NZMB XZHVH ZN HVIEVH ZH Z
KFYORX-IVOZGRLMH GLLO ULI GSV KFYORX ORYIZIRVH GSZG ZIV GVHGRMT RG.  RM
LMV XZHV, ZN RH YVRMT FHVW ZH Z EVSRXOV GL HVXFIV ZWWRGRLMZO UFMWRMT ULI
GSV ORYIZIB.  RM ZMLGSVI XZHV, ZN SZH HVIEVW ZH ZM RMHKRIZGRLM GL GSV
HGZUU LU Z NZQLI OLXZO KFYORX ORYIZIB RM GSV HLFGS GL GSRMP ZYLFG DZBH GL
NZPV RGH LDM XLOOVXGRLM LU KSLGLTIZKSH NLIV ZXXVHHRYOV GL GSV KFYORX.

                                  ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
UIVVNZM * ZN ZMW ZIXSREZO VOVXGILMRX IVHLFIXVH RM Z HXSLLO VMERILMNVMG *
JFVHGRLMH XLMXVIMRMT XLMGVCG * JFVHGRLMH XLMXVIMRMT GSV VOVXGILMRX ULINZG
RGHVOU * XLNKFGVI ZMCRVGB * ZXXVHH ZMW ZEZROZYRORGB LU GSV HBHGVN *
SZIWDZIV * HGIVMTGSH TZRMVW GSILFTS GSV FHV LU ZIXSREZO IVHLFIXVH RM
