in microfilm.  POB would seek material that was out of copyright.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
BARONAS * Origin and scope of AIIM * Types of documents produced in
AIIM's standards program * Domain of AIIM's standardization work * AIIM's
structure * TC 171 and MS23 * Electronic image management standards *
Categories of EIM standardization where AIIM standards are being
developed *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Jean BARONAS, senior manager, Department of Standards and Technology,
Association for Information and Image Management (AIIM), described the
not-for-profit association and the national and international programs
for standardization in which AIIM is active.

Accredited for twenty-five years as the nation's standards development
organization for document image management, AIIM began life in a library
community developing microfilm standards.  Today the association
maintains both its library and business-image management standardization
activities--and has moved into electronic image-management
standardization (EIM).

BARONAS defined the program's scope.  AIIM deals with:  1) the
terminology of standards and of the technology it uses; 2) methods of
measurement for the systems, as well as quality; 3) methodologies for
users to evaluate and measure quality; 4) the features of apparatus used
to manage and edit images; and 5) the procedures used to manage images.

BARONAS noted that three types of documents are produced in the AIIM
standards program:  the first two, accredited by the American National
Standards Institute (ANSI), are standards and standard recommended
practices.  Recommended practices differ from standards in that they
contain more tutorial information.  A technical report is not an ANSI
standard.  Because AIIM's policies and procedures for developing
standards are approved by ANSI, its standards are labeled ANSI/AIIM,
followed by the number and title of the standard.

BARONAS then illustrated the domain of AIIM's standardization work.  For
example, AIIM is the administrator of the U.S. Technical Advisory Group
(TAG) to the International Standards Organization's (ISO) technical
committee, TC l7l Micrographics and Optical Memories for Document and
Image Recording, Storage, and Use.  AIIM officially works through ANSI in
the international standardization process.

BARONAS described AIIM's structure, including its board of directors, its
standards board of twelve individuals active in the image-management
industry, its strategic planning and legal admissibility task forces, and
its National Standards Council, which is comprised of the members of a
number of organizations who vote on every AIIM standard before it is
published.  BARONAS pointed out that AIIM's liaisons deal with numerous
other standards developers, including the optical disk community, office
and publishing systems, image-codes-and-character set committees, and the
National Information Standards Organization (NISO).

BARONAS illustrated the procedures of TC l7l, which covers all aspects of
image management.  When AIIM's national program has conceptualized a new
project, it is usually submitted to the international level, so that the
member countries of TC l7l can simultaneously work on the development of
the standard or the technical report.  BARONAS also illustrated a classic
microfilm standard, MS23, which deals with numerous imaging concepts that
apply to electronic imaging.  Originally developed in the l970s, revised
in the l980s, and revised again in l991, this standard is scheduled for
another revision.  MS23 is an active standard whereby users may propose
new density ranges and new methods of evaluating film images in the
standard's revision.

BARONAS detailed several electronic image-management standards, for
instance, ANSI/AIIM MS44, a quality-control guideline for scanning 8.5"
by 11" black-and-white office documents.  This standard is used with the
IEEE fax image--a continuous tone photographic image with gray scales,
text, and several continuous tone pictures--and AIIM test target number
2, a representative document used in office document management.

BARONAS next outlined the four categories of EIM standardization in which
AIIM standards are being developed:  transfer and retrieval, evaluation,
optical disc and document scanning applications, and design and
conversion of documents.  She detailed several of the main projects of
each:  1) in the category of image transfer and retrieval, a bi-level
image transfer format, ANSI/AIIM MS53, which is a proposed standard that
describes a file header for image transfer between unlike systems when
the images are compressed using G3 and G4 compression; 2) the category of
image evaluation, which includes the AIIM-proposed TR26 tutorial on image
resolution (this technical report will treat the differences and
similarities between classical or photographic and electronic imaging);
3) design and conversion, which includes a proposed technical report
called "Forms Design Optimization for EIM" (this report considers how
general-purpose business forms can be best designed so that scanning is
optimized; reprographic characteristics such as type, rules, background,
tint, and color will likewise be treated in the technical report); 4)
disk and document scanning applications includes a project a) on planning
platters and disk management, b) on generating an application profile for
EIM when images are stored and distributed on CD-ROM, and c) on
evaluating SCSI2, and how a common command set can be generated for SCSI2
so that document scanners are more easily integrated.  (ANSI/AIIM MS53
will also apply to compressed images.)

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
BATTIN * The implications of standards for preservation * A major
obstacle to successful cooperation * A hindrance to access in the digital
environment * Standards a double-edged sword for those concerned with the
preservation of the human record * Near-term prognosis for reliable
archival standards * Preservation concerns for electronic media * Need
for reconceptualizing our preservation principles * Standards in the real
world and the politics of reproduction * Need to redefine the concept of
archival and to begin to think in terms of life cycles * Cooperation and
the La Guardia Eight * Concerns generated by discussions on the problems
of preserving text and image * General principles to be adopted in a
world without standards *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Patricia BATTIN, president, the Commission on Preservation and Access
(CPA), addressed the implications of standards for preservation.  She
listed several areas where the library profession and the analog world of
the printed book had made enormous contributions over the past hundred
years--for example, in bibliographic formats, binding standards, and, most
important, in determining what constitutes longevity or archival quality.

Although standards have lightened the preservation burden through the
development of national and international collaborative programs,
nevertheless, a pervasive mistrust of other people's standards remains a
major obstacle to successful cooperation, BATTIN said.

The zeal to achieve perfection, regardless of the cost, has hindered
rather than facilitated access in some instances, and in the digital
environment, where no real standards exist, has brought an ironically
just reward.

BATTIN argued that standards are a double-edged sword for those concerned
with the preservation of the human record, that is, the provision of
access to recorded knowledge in a multitude of media as far into the
future as possible.  Standards are essential to facilitate
interconnectivity and access, but, BATTIN said, as LYNCH pointed out
yesterday, if set too soon they can hinder creativity, expansion of
capability, and the broadening of access.  The characteristics of
standards for digital imagery differ radically from those for analog
imagery.  And the nature of digital technology implies continuing
volatility and change.  To reiterate, precipitous standard-setting can
inhibit creativity, but delayed standard-setting results in chaos.

Since in BATTIN'S opinion the near-term prognosis for reliable archival
standards, as defined by librarians in the analog world, is poor, two
alternatives remain:  standing pat with the old technology, or
reconceptualizing.

Preservation concerns for electronic media fall into two general domains.
One is the continuing assurance of access to knowledge originally
generated, stored, disseminated, and used in electronic form.  This
domain contains several subdivisions, including 1) the closed,
proprietary systems discussed the previous day, bundled information such
as electronic journals and government agency records, and electronically
produced or captured raw data; and 2) the application of digital
technologies to the reformatting of materials originally published on a
deteriorating analog medium such as acid paper or videotape.

The preservation of electronic media requires a reconceptualizing of our
preservation principles during a volatile, standardless transition which
may last far longer than any of us envision today.  BATTIN urged the
necessity of shifting focus from assessing, measuring, and setting
standards for the permanence of the medium to the concept of managing
continuing access to information stored on a variety of media and
requiring a variety of ever-changing hardware and software for access--a
fundamental shift for the library profession.

BATTIN offered a primer on how to move forward with reasonable confidence
in a world without standards.  Her comments fell roughly into two sections:
1) standards in the real world and 2) the politics of reproduction.

In regard to real-world standards, BATTIN argued the need to redefine the
concept of archive and to begin to think in terms of life cycles.  In
the past, the naive assumption that paper would last forever produced a
cavalier attitude toward life cycles.  The transient nature of the
electronic media has compelled people to recognize and accept upfront the
concept of life cycles in place of permanency.

Digital standards have to be developed and set in a cooperative context
to ensure efficient exchange of information.  Moreover, during this
transition period, greater flexibility concerning how concepts such as
backup copies and archival copies in the CXP are defined is necessary,
or the opportunity to move forward will be lost.

In terms of cooperation, particularly in the university setting, BATTIN
also argued the need to avoid going off in a hundred different
directions.  The CPA has catalyzed a small group of universities called
the La Guardia Eight--because La Guardia Airport is where meetings take
place--Harvard, Yale, Cornell, Princeton, Penn State, Tennessee,
Stanford, and USC, to develop a digital preservation consortium to look
at all these issues and develop de facto standards as we move along,
instead of waiting for something that is officially blessed.  Continuing
to apply analog values and definitions of standards to the digital
environment, BATTIN said, will effectively lead to forfeiture of the
benefits of digital technology to research and scholarship.

Under the second rubric, the politics of reproduction, BATTIN reiterated
an oft-made argument concerning the electronic library, namely, that it
is more difficult to transform than to create, and nowhere is that belief
expressed more dramatically than in the conversion of brittle books to
new media.  Preserving information published in electronic media involves
making sure the information remains accessible and that digital
information is not lost through reproduction.  In the analog world of
photocopies and microfilm, the issue of fidelity to the original becomes
paramount, as do issues of "Whose fidelity?" and "Whose original?"

BATTIN elaborated these arguments with a few examples from a recent study
conducted by the CPA on the problems of preserving text and image.
Discussions with scholars, librarians, and curators in a variety of
disciplines dependent on text and image generated a variety of concerns,
for example:  1) Copy what is, not what the technology is capable of.
This is very important for the history of ideas.  Scholars wish to know
what the author saw and worked from.  And make available at the
workstation the opportunity to erase all the defects and enhance the
presentation.  2) The fidelity of reproduction--what is good enough, what
can we afford, and the difference it makes--issues of subjective versus
objective resolution.  3) The differences between primary and secondary
users.  Restricting the definition of primary user to the one in whose
discipline the material has been published runs one headlong into the
reality that these printed books have had a host of other users from a
host of other disciplines, who not only were looking for very different
things, but who also shared values very different from those of the
primary user.  4) The relationship of the standard of reproduction to new
capabilities of scholarship--the browsing standard versus an archival
standard.  How good must the archival standard be?  Can a distinction be
drawn between potential users in setting standards for reproduction?
Archival storage, use copies, browsing copies--ought an attempt to set
standards even be made?  5) Finally, costs.  How much are we prepared to
pay to capture absolute fidelity?  What are the trade-offs between vastly
enhanced access, degrees of fidelity, and costs?

These standards, BATTIN concluded, serve to complicate further the
reproduction process, and add to the long list of technical standards
that are necessary to ensure widespread access.  Ways to articulate and
analyze the costs that are attached to the different levels of standards
must be found.

Given the chaos concerning standards, which promises to linger for the
foreseeable future, BATTIN urged adoption of the following general
principles:

     * Strive to understand the changing information requirements of
     scholarly disciplines as more and more technology is integrated into
     the process of research and scholarly communication in order to meet
     future scholarly needs, not to build for the past.  Capture
     deteriorating information at the highest affordable resolution, even
     though the dissemination and display technologies will lag.

     * Develop cooperative mechanisms to foster agreement on protocols
     for document structure and other interchange mechanisms necessary
     for widespread dissemination and use before official standards are
     set.

     * Accept that, in a transition period, de facto standards will have
     to be developed.

     * Capture information in a way that keeps all options open and
     provides for total convertibility:  OCR, scanning of microfilm,
     producing microfilm from scanned documents, etc.

     * Work closely with the generators of information and the builders
     of networks and databases to ensure that continuing accessibility is
     a primary concern from the beginning.

     * Piggyback on standards under development for the broad market, and
     avoid library-specific standards; work with the vendors, in order to
     take advantage of that which is being standardized for the rest of
     the world.

     * Concentrate efforts on managing permanence in the digital world,
     rather than perfecting the longevity of a particular medium.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Additional comments on TIFF *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the brief discussion period that followed BATTIN's presentation,
BARONAS explained that TIFF was not developed in collaboration with or
under the auspices of AIIM.  TIFF is a company product, not a standard,
is owned by two corporations, and is always changing.  BARONAS also
observed that ANSI/AIIM MS53, a bi-level image file transfer format that
allows unlike systems to exchange images, is compatible with TIFF as well
as with DEC's architecture and IBM's MODCA/IOCA.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
HOOTON * Several questions to be considered in discussing text conversion
*
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

HOOTON introduced the final topic, text conversion, by noting that it is
becoming an increasingly important part of the imaging business.  Many
people now realize that it enhances their system to be able to have more
and more character data as part of their imaging system.  Re the issue of
OCR versus rekeying, HOOTON posed several questions:  How does one get
text into computer-readable form?  Does one use automated processes?
Does one attempt to eliminate the use of operators where possible?
Standards for accuracy, he said, are extremely important:  it makes a
major difference in cost and time whether one sets as a standard 98.5
percent acceptance or 99.5 percent.  He mentioned outsourcing as a
possibility for converting text.  Finally, what one does with the image
to prepare it for the recognition process is also important, he said,
because such preparation changes how recognition is viewed, as well as
facilitates recognition itself.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
LESK * Roles of participants in CORE * Data flow * The scanning process *
The image interface * Results of experiments involving the use of
electronic resources and traditional paper copies * Testing the issue of
serendipity * Conclusions *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Michael LESK, executive director, Computer Science Research, Bell
Communications Research, Inc. (Bellcore), discussed the Chemical Online
Retrieval Experiment (CORE), a cooperative project involving Cornell
University, OCLC, Bellcore, and the American Chemical Society (ACS).

LESK spoke on 1) how the scanning was performed, including the unusual
feature of page segmentation, and 2) the use made of the text and the
image in experiments.

Working with the chemistry journals (because ACS has been saving its
typesetting tapes since the mid-1970s and thus has a significant back-run
of the most important chemistry journals in the United States), CORE is
attempting to create an automated chemical library.  Approximately a
quarter of the pages by square inch are made up of images of
quasi-pictorial material; dealing with the graphic components of the
pages is extremely important.  LESK described the roles of participants
in CORE:  1) ACS provides copyright permission, journals on paper,
journals on microfilm, and some of the definitions of the files; 2) at
Bellcore, LESK chiefly performs the data preparation, while Dennis Egan
performs experiments on the users of chemical abstracts, and supplies the
indexing and numerous magnetic tapes;  3) Cornell provides the site of the
experiment; 4) OCLC develops retrieval software and other user interfaces.
Various manufacturers and publishers have furnished other help.

Concerning data flow, Bellcore receives microfilm and paper from ACS; the
microfilm is scanned by outside vendors, while the paper is scanned
inhouse on an Improvision scanner, twenty pages per minute at 300 dpi,
which provides sufficient quality for all practical uses.  LESK would
prefer to have more gray level, because one of the ACS journals prints on
some colored pages, which creates a problem.

Bellcore performs all this scanning, creates a page-image file, and also
selects from the pages the graphics, to mix with the text file (which is
discussed later in the Workshop).  The user is always searching the ASCII
file, but she or he may see a display based on the ASCII or a display
based on the images.

LESK illustrated how the program performs page analysis, and the image
interface.  (The user types several words, is presented with a list--
usually of the titles of articles contained in an issue--that derives
from the ASCII, clicks on an icon and receives an image that mirrors an
ACS page.)  LESK also illustrated an alternative interface, based on text
on the ASCII, the so-called SuperBook interface from Bellcore.

LESK next presented the results of an experiment conducted by Dennis Egan
and involving thirty-six students at Cornell, one third of them
undergraduate chemistry majors, one third senior undergraduate chemistry
majors, and one third graduate chemistry students.  A third of them
received the paper journals, the traditional paper copies and chemical
abstracts on paper.  A third received image displays of the pictures of
the pages, and a third received the text display with pop-up graphics.

The students were given several questions made up by some chemistry
professors.  The questions fell into five classes, ranging from very easy
to very difficult, and included questions designed to simulate browsing
as well as a traditional information retrieval-type task.

LESK furnished the following results.  In the straightforward question
search--the question being, what is the phosphorus oxygen bond distance
and hydroxy phosphate?--the students were told that they could take
fifteen minutes and, then, if they wished, give up.  The students with
paper took more than fifteen minutes on average, and yet most of them
gave up.  The students with either electronic format, text or image,
received good scores in reasonable time, hardly ever had to give up, and
usually found the right answer.

In the browsing study, the students were given a list of eight topics,
told to imagine that an issue of the Journal of the American Chemical
Society had just appeared on their desks, and were also told to flip
through it and to find topics mentioned in the issue.  The average scores
were about the same.  (The students were told to answer yes or no about
whether or not particular topics appeared.)  The errors, however, were
quite different.  The students with paper rarely said that something
appeared when it had not.  But they often failed to find something
actually mentioned in the issue.  The computer people found numerous
things, but they also frequently said that a topic was mentioned when it
was not.  (The reason, of course, was that they were performing word
searches.  They were finding that words were mentioned and they were
concluding that they had accomplished their task.)

This question also contained a trick to test the issue of serendipity.
The students were given another list of eight topics and instructed,
without taking a second look at the journal, to recall how many of this
new list of eight topics were in this particular issue.  This was an
attempt to see if they performed better at remembering what they were not
looking for.  They all performed about the same, paper or electronics,
about 62 percent accurate.  In short, LESK said, people were not very
good when it came to serendipity, but they were no worse at it with
computers than they were with paper.

(LESK gave a parenthetical illustration of the learning curve of students
who used SuperBook.)

The students using the electronic systems started off worse than the ones
using print, but by the third of the three sessions in the series had
caught up to print.  As one might expect, electronics provide a much
better means of finding what one wants to read; reading speeds, once the
object of the search has been found, are about the same.

Almost none of the students could perform the hard task--the analogous
transformation.  (It would require the expertise of organic chemists to
complete.)  But an interesting result was that the students using the text
search performed terribly, while those using the image system did best.
That the text search system is driven by text offers the explanation.
Everything is focused on the text; to see the pictures, one must press
on an icon.  Many students found the right article containing the answer
to the question, but they did not click on the icon to bring up the right
figure and see it.  They did not know that they had found the right place,
and thus got it wrong.

The short answer demonstrated by this experiment was that in the event
one does not know what to read, one needs the electronic systems; the
electronic systems hold no advantage at the moment if one knows what to
read, but neither do they impose a penalty.

LESK concluded by commenting that, on one hand, the image system was easy
to use.  On the other hand, the text display system, which represented
twenty man-years of work in programming and polishing, was not winning,
because the text was not being read, just searched.  The much easier
system is highly competitive as well as remarkably effective for the
actual chemists.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
ERWAY * Most challenging aspect of working on AM * Assumptions guiding
AM's approach * Testing different types of service bureaus * AM's
requirement for 99.95 percent accuracy * Requirements for text-coding *
Additional factors influencing AM's approach to coding * Results of AM's
experience with rekeying * Other problems in dealing with service bureaus
* Quality control the most time-consuming aspect of contracting out
conversion * Long-term outlook uncertain *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

To Ricky ERWAY, associate coordinator, American Memory, Library of
Congress, the constant variety of conversion projects taking place
simultaneously represented perhaps the most challenging aspect of working
on AM.  Thus, the challenge was not to find a solution for text
conversion but a tool kit of solutions to apply to LC's varied
collections that need to be converted.  ERWAY limited her remarks to the
process of converting text to machine-readable form, and the variety of
LC's text collections, for example, bound volumes, microfilm, and
handwritten manuscripts.

Two assumptions have guided AM's approach, ERWAY said:  1) A desire not
to perform the conversion inhouse.  Because of the variety of formats and
types of texts, to capitalize the equipment and have the talents and
skills to operate them at LC would be extremely expensive.  Further, the
natural inclination to upgrade to newer and better equipment each year
made it reasonable for AM to focus on what it did best and seek external
conversion services.  Using service bureaus also allowed AM to have
several types of operZGRLMH GZPV KOZXV ZG GSV HZNV GRNV.  2) ZN DZH MLG Z
GVXSMLOLTB KILQVXG, YFG ZM VUULIG GL RNKILEV ZXXVHH GL ORYIZIB
XLOOVXGRLMH.  SVMXV, DSVGSVI GVCG DZH XLMEVIGVW FHRMT LXI LI IVPVBRMT
NZGGVIVW ORGGOV GL ZN.  DSZG NZGGVIVW DVIV XLHG ZMW ZXXFIZXB LU IVHFOGH.

ZN XLMHRWVIVW WRUUVIVMG GBKVH LU HVIERXV YFIVZFH ZMW HVOVXGVW GSIVV GL
KVIULIN HVEVIZO HNZOO GVHGH RM LIWVI GL ZXJFRIV Z HVMHV LU GSV URVOW.
GSV HZNKOV XLOOVXGRLMH DRGS DSRXS GSVB DLIPVW RMXOFWVW SZMWDIRGGVM
XLIIVHKLMWVMXV, GBKVDIRGGVM NZMFHXIRKGH UILN GSV 1940H, ZMW
VRTSGVVMGS-XVMGFIB KIRMGVW YILZWHRWVH LM NRXILURON.  LM MLMV LU GSVHV
HZNKOVH DZH LXI KVIULINVW; GSVB DVIV ZOO IVPVBVW.  ZN SZW HVEVIZO HKVXRZO
IVJFRIVNVMGH ULI GSV GSIVV HVIERXV YFIVZFH RG SZW VMTZTVW.  ULI RMHGZMXV,
ZMB VIILIH RM GSV LIRTRMZO GVCG DVIV GL YV IVGZRMVW.  DLIPRMT UILN YLFMW
ELOFNVH LI ZMBGSRMT GSZG XLFOW MLG YV HSVVG-UVW ZOHL XLMHGRGFGVW Z UZXGLI
VORNRMZGRMT XLNKZMRVH GSZG DLFOW SZEV KVIULINVW LXI.

ZN IVJFRIVH 99.95 KVIXVMG ZXXFIZXB, DSRXS, GSLFTS RG HLFMWH SRTS, LUGVM
NVZMH LMV LI GDL VIILIH KVI KZTV.  GSV RMRGRZO YZGXS LU GVHG HZNKOVH
XLMGZRMVW HVEVIZO SZMWDIRGGVM NZGVIRZOH ULI DSRXS ZN WRW MLG IVJFRIV
GVCG-XLWRMT.  GSV IVHFOGH, VIDZB IVKLIGVW, DVIV RM ZOO XZHVH UZRIOB
XLNKZIZYOV:  ULI GSV NLHG KZIG, ZOO GSIVV HVIERXV YFIVZFH ZXSRVEVW 99.95
KVIXVMG ZXXFIZXB.  ZN DZH HZGRHURVW DRGS GSV DLIP YFG HFIKIRHVW ZG GSV XLHG.

ZH ZN YVTZM XLMEVIGRMT DSLOV XLOOVXGRLMH, RG IVGZRMVW GSV IVJFRIVNVMG ULI
99.95 KVIXVMG ZXXFIZXB ZMW ZWWVW IVJFRIVNVMGH ULI GVCG-XLWRMT.  ZN MVVWVW
GL YVTRM KVIULINRMT DLIP NLIV GSZM GSIVV BVZIH ZTL YVULIV OX IVJFRIVNVMGH
ULI HTNO ZKKORXZGRLMH SZW YVVM VHGZYORHSVW.  HRMXV ZN'H TLZO DZH HRNKOB
GL IVGZRM ZMB LU GSV RMGVOOVXGFZO XLMGVMG IVKIVHVMGVW YB GSV ULINZGGRMT
LU GSV WLXFNVMG (DSRXS DLFOW YV OLHG RU LMV KVIULINVW Z HGIZRTSG ZHXRR
XLMEVIHRLM), ZN FHVW "HTNO-ORPV" XLWVH.  GSVHV XLWVH IVHVNYOVW HTNO GZTH
YFG DVIV FHVW DRGSLFG GSV YVMVURG LU WLXFNVMG-GBKV WVURMRGRLMH.  ZN ULFMW
GSZG NZMB HVIERXV YFIVZFH DVIV MLG BVG HTNO-KILURXRVMG.

ZWWRGRLMZO UZXGLIH RMUOFVMXRMT GSV ZKKILZXS ZN GLLP DRGS IVHKVXG GL
XLWRMT RMXOFWVW:  1) GSV RMZYRORGB LU ZMB PMLDM NRXILXLNKFGVI-YZHVW
FHVI-IVGIRVEZO HLUGDZIV GL GZPV ZWEZMGZTV LU HTNO XLWRMT; ZMW 2) GSV
NFOGRKOV RMXLMHRHGVMXRVH RM ULINZG LU GSV LOWVI WLXFNVMGH, DSRXS
XLMURINVW ZN RM RGH WVHRIV MLG GL ZGGVNKG GL ULIXV GSV WRUUVIVMG ULINZGH
GL XLMULIN GL Z HRMTOV WLXFNVMG-GBKV WVURMRGRLM (WGW) ZMW GSFH XIVZGV GSV
MVVW ULI Z HVKZIZGV WGW ULI VZXS WLXFNVMG.

GSV UREV GVCG XLOOVXGRLMH GSZG ZN SZH XLMEVIGVW LI RH RM GSV KILXVHH LU
XLMEVIGRMT RMXOFWV Z XLOOVXGRLM LU VRTSGVVMGS-XVMGFIB YILZWHRWVH, Z
XLOOVXGRLM LU KZNKSOVGH, GDL GBKVHXIRKG WLXFNVMG XLOOVXGRLMH, ZMW Z
XLOOVXGRLM LU 150 YLLPH.

VIDZB MVCG IVERVDVW GSV IVHFOGH LU ZN'H VCKVIRVMXV DRGS IVPVBRMT, MLGRMT
ZTZRM GSZG YVXZFHV GSV YFOP LU ZN'H NZGVIRZOH ZIV SRHGLIRXZO, GSV JFZORGB
LU GSV GVCG LUGVM WLVH MLG OVMW RGHVOU GL LXI.  DSROV MLM-VMTORHS
HKVZPVIH ZIV OVHH ORPVOB GL TFVHH LI VOZYLIZGV LI XLIIVXG GBKLH RM GSV
LIRTRMZO GVCG, GSVB ZIV ZOHL OVHH ZYOV GL RMUVI DSZG DV DLFOW; GSVB ZOHL
ZIV MVZIOB RMXZKZYOV LU XLMEVIGRMT SZMWDIRGGVM GVCG.  ZMLGSVI
WRHZWEZMGZTV LU DLIPRMT DRGS LEVIHVZH PVBVIH RH GSZG GSVB ZIV NFXS OVHH
ORPVOB GL GVOVKSLMV DRGS JFVHGRLMH, VHKVXRZOOB LM GSV XLWRMT, DRGS GSV
IVHFOG GSZG GSVB WVEVOLK GSVRI LDM IFOVH ZH GSVB VMXLFMGVI MVD
HRGFZGRLMH.

TLEVIMNVMG XLMGIZXGRMT KILXVWFIVH ZMW GRNV UIZNVH KLHVW Z NZQLI XSZOOVMTV
GL KVIULINRMT GSV XLMEVIHRLM.  NZMB HVIERXV YFIVZFH ZIV MLG ZXXFHGLNVW GL
IVGZRMRMT GSV RNZTV, VEVM RU GSVB KVIULIN LXI.  GSFH, JFVHGRLMH LU RNZTV
ULINZG ZMW HGLIZTV NVWRZ DVIV HLNVDSZG MLEVO GL NZMB LU GSVN.  VIDZB ZOHL
IVNZIPVW LGSVI KILYOVNH RM WVZORMT DRGS HVIERXV YFIVZFH, ULI VCZNKOV,
GSVRI RMZYRORGB GL KVIULIN GVCG XLMEVIHRLM UILN GSV PRMW LU NRXILURON
GSZG OX FHVH ULI KIVHVIEZGRLM KFIKLHVH.

YFG JFZORGB XLMGILO, RM VIDZB'H VCKVIRVMXV, DZH GSV NLHG GRNV-XLMHFNRMT
ZHKVXG LU XLMGIZXGRMT LFG XLMEVIHRLM.  ZN SZH YVVM ZGGVNKGRMT GL KVIULIN
Z 10-KVIXVMG JFZORGB IVERVD, OLLPRMT ZG VRGSVI VEVIB GVMGS WLXFNVMG LI
VEVIB GVMGS KZTV GL NZPV XVIGZRM GSZG GSV HVIERXV YFIVZFH ZIV NZRMGZRMRMT
99.95 KVIXVMG ZXXFIZXB.  YFG VEVM RU GSVB ZIV XLNKOBRMT DRGS GSV
IVJFRIVNVMG ULI ZXXFIZXB, URMWRMT VIILIH KILWFXVH Z WVHRIV GL XLIIVXG
GSVN ZMW, RM GFIM, GL XOVZM FK GSV DSLOV XLOOVXGRLM, DSRXS WVUVZGH GSV
KFIKLHV GL HLNV VCGVMG.  VEVM Z WLFYOV VMGIB IVJFRIVH Z
XSZIZXGVI-YB-XSZIZXGVI XLNKZIRHLM GL GSV LIRTRMZO GL NVVG GSV ZXXFIZXB
IVJFRIVNVMG.  OX RH MLG ZXXFHGLNVW GL KFYORHS RNKVIUVXG GVCGH, DSRXS
NZPVH ZGGVNKGRMT GL WVZO DRGS GSV RMWFHGIB HGZMWZIW ZM VNLGRLMZOOB
UIZFTSG RHHFV ULI ZN.  ZH DZH NVMGRLMVW RM GSV KIVERLFH WZB'H WRHXFHHRLM,
TLRMT UILN 99.95 GL 99.99 KVIXVMG ZXXFIZXB FHFZOOB WLFYOVH XLHGH ZMW
NVZMH Z GSRIW PVBRMT LI ZMLGSVI XLNKOVGV IFM-GSILFTS LU GSV GVCG.

ZOGSLFTS ZN SZH OVZIMVW NFXS UILN RGH VCKVIRVMXVH DRGS EZIRLFH XLOOVXGRLMH
ZMW EZIRLFH HVIERXV YFIVZFH, VIDZB XLMXOFWVW KVHHRNRHGRXZOOB GSZG ML
YIVZPGSILFTS SZH YVVM ZXSRVEVW.   RMXIVNVMGZO RNKILEVNVMGH SZEV LXXFIIVW
RM HLNV LU GSV LXI GVXSMLOLTB, HLNV LU GSV KILXVHHVH, ZMW HLNV LU GSV
HGZMWZIWH ZXXVKGZMXVH, DSRXS, GSLFTS GSVB NZB OVZW GL HLNVDSZG OLDVI XLHGH,
WL MLG LUUVI NFXS VMXLFIZTVNVMG GL NZMB KVLKOV DSL ZIV ZMCRLFHOB ZDZRGRMT
GSV WZB GSZG GSV VMGRIV XLMGVMGH LU OX ZIV ZEZROZYOV LM-ORMV.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
ARWZI * HVEVIZO ZMHDVIH GL DSB LMV ZGGVNKGH GL KVIULIN UFOO-GVCG
XLMEVIHRLM * KVI KZTV XLHG LU KVIULINRMT LXI * GBKRXZO KILYOVNH
VMXLFMGVIVW WFIRMT VWRGRMT * VWRGRMT KLLI XLKB LXI EH. IVPVBRMT *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

QFWRGS ARWZI, XLLIWRMZGLI, MZGRLMZO ZTIRXFOGFIZO GVCG WRTRGRARMT KILTIZN
(MZGWK), MZGRLMZO ZTIRXFOGFIZO ORYIZIB (MZO), LUUVIVW HVEVIZO ZMHDVIH GL
GSV JFVHGRLM LU DSB LMV ZGGVNKGH GL KVIULIN UFOO-GVCG XLMEVIHRLM:  1)
GVCG RM ZM RNZTV XZM YV IVZW YB Z SFNZM YFG MLG YB Z XLNKFGVI, HL LU
XLFIHV RG RH MLG HVZIXSZYOV ZMW GSVIV RH MLG NFXS LMV XZM WL DRGS RG.  2)
HLNV NZGVIRZO HRNKOB IVJFRIVH DLIW-OVEVO ZXXVHH.  ULI RMHGZMXV, GSV OVTZO
KILUVHHRLM RMHRHGH LM UFOO-GVCG ZXXVHH GL RGH NZGVIRZO; DRGS GZCLMLNRX LI
TVLTIZKSRX NZGVIRZO, DSRXS VMGZROH MFNVILFH MZNVH, LMV ERIGFZOOB IVJFRIVH
DLIW-OVEVO ZXXVHH.  3) UFOO GVCG KVINRGH IZKRW YILDHRMT ZMW HVZIXSRMT,
HLNVGSRMT GSZG XZMMLG YV ZXSRVEVW RM ZM RNZTV DRGS GLWZB'H GVXSMLOLTB.
4) GVCG HGLIVW ZH ZHXRR ZMW WVOREVIVW RM ZHXRR RH HGZMWZIWRAVW ZMW SRTSOB
KLIGZYOV.  5) KVLKOV QFHG DZMG UFOO-GVCG HVZIXSRMT, VEVM GSLHV DSL WL MLG
PMLD SLD GL WL RG.  MZO, ULI GSV NLHG KZIG, RH KVIULINRMT LXI ZG ZM
ZXGFZO XLHG KVI ZEVIZTV-HRAV KZTV LU ZKKILCRNZGVOB $7.  MZO HXZMH GSV
KZTV GL XIVZGV GSV VOVXGILMRX RNZTV ZMW KZHHVH RG GSILFTS GSV LXI WVERXV.

ARWZI MVCG IVSVZIHVW HVEVIZO GBKRXZO KILYOVNH VMXLFMGVIVW WFIRMT VWRGRMT.
KIZRHRMT GSV XVOVIRGB LU SVI HGFWVMG DLIPVIH, ARWZI LYHVIEVW GSZG VWRGRMT
IVJFRIVH ZKKILCRNZGVOB UREV GL GVM NRMFGVH KVI KZTV, ZHHFNRMT GSZG GSVIV
ZIV ML OZITV GZYOVH GL ZFWRG.  XLMUFHRLM ZNLMT GSV GSIVV XSZIZXGVIH R, 1,
ZMW O, XLMHGRGFGVH KVISZKH GSV NLHG XLNNLM KILYOVN VMXLFMGVIVW.  AVILVH
ZMW  L'H ZOHL ZIV  UIVJFVMGOB XLMUFHVW.  WLFYOV N'H XIVZGV Z KZIGRXFOZI
KILYOVN, VEVM LM XOVZM KZTVH.  GSVB ZIV HL DRWV RM NLHG ULMGH GSZG GSVB
GLFXS, ZMW GSV HBHGVN HRNKOB XZMMLG GVOO DSVIV LMV OVGGVI VMWH ZMW GSV
LGSVI YVTRMH.  XLNKOVC KZTV ULINZGH LXXZHRLMZOOB UZRO GL XLOFNMZGV
KILKVIOB, DSRXS VMGZROH IVHXZMMRMT ZH GSLFTS LMV DVIV DLIPRMT DRGS Z
HRMTOV XLOFNM, VMGVIRMT GSV ZHXRR, ZMW WVXLOFNMZGRMT ULI YVGGVI
HVZIXSRMT.  DRGS KILKLIGRLMZOOB HKZXVW GVCG, LXI XZM SZEV WRUURXFOGB
WRHXVIMRMT DSZG RH Z HKZXV ZMW DSZG ZIV NVIVOB HKZXVH YVGDVVM OVGGVIH, ZH
LKKLHVW GL HKZXVH YVGDVVM DLIWH, ZMW GSVIVULIV DROO NVITV GVCG LI YIVZP
FK DLIWH DSVIV RG HSLFOW MLG.

ARWZI HZRW GSZG RG XZM LUGVM GZPV OLMTVI GL VWRG Z KLLI-XLKB LXI GSZM GL
PVB RG UILN HXIZGXS.  MZO SZH ZOHL VCKVIRNVMGVW DRGS KZIGRZO VWRGRMT LU
GVCG, DSVIVYB KILQVXG DLIPVIH TL RMGL ZMW XOVZM FK GSV ULINZG, IVNLERMT
HGIZB XSZIZXGVIH YFG MLG IFMMRMT Z HKVOO-XSVXP.  MZO XLIIVXGH GBKLH RM
GSV GRGOV ZMW ZFGSLIH' MZNVH, DSRXS KILERWVH Z ULLGSLOW ULI HVZIXSRMT ZMW
YILDHRMT.  VEVM VCGIVNVOB KLLI-JFZORGB LXI (V.T., 60-KVIXVMG ZXXFIZXB)
XZM HGROO YV HVZIXSVW, YVXZFHV MFNVILFH DLIWH ZIV XLIIVXG, DSROV GSV
RNKLIGZMG DLIWH ZIV KILYZYOB IVKVZGVW LUGVM VMLFTS GSZG GSVB ZIV ORPVOB
GL YV ULFMW XLIIVXG HLNVDSVIV.  ORYIZIRZMH, SLDVEVI, XZMMLG GLOVIZGV GSRH
HRGFZGRLM, GSLFTS VMW FHVIH HVVN NLIV DROORMT GL FHV GSRH GVCG ULI
HVZIXSRMT, KILERWVW GSZG MZO RMWRXZGVH GSZG RG RH FMVWRGVW.  ARWZI
XLMXOFWVW GSZG IVPVBRMT LU GVCG NZB YV GSV YVHG ILFGV GL GZPV, RM HKRGV
LU MFNVILFH KILYOVNH DRGS JFZORGB XLMGILO ZMW XLHG.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
WRHXFHHRLM * NLWRUBRMT ZM RNZTV YVULIV KVIULINRMT LXI * MZO'H XLHGH KVI
KZTV *ZN'H XLHGH KVI KZTV ZMW VCKVIRVMXV DRGS UVWVIZO KIRHLM RMWFHGIRVH *
VOVNVMGH XLNKIRHRMT MZGWK'H XLHGH KVI KZTV * LXI ZMW HGIFXGFIVW NZIPFK *
WRHGRMXGRLM YVGDVVM GSV HGIFXGFIV LU Z WLXFNVMG ZMW RGH IVKIVHVMGZGRLM
DSVM KFG LM GSV HXIVVM LI KIRMGVW *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

SLLGLM KIVUZXVW GSV OVMTGSB WRHXFHHRLM GSZG ULOOLDVW DRGS HVEVIZO
XLNNVMGH ZYLFG NLWRUBRMT ZM RNZTV YVULIV LMV IVZXSVH GSV KLRMG LU
KVIULINRMT LXI.  ULI VCZNKOV, RM IVTZIW GL ZM ZKKORXZGRLM XLMGZRMRMT Z
HRTMRURXZMG ZNLFMG LU IVWFMWZMG WZGZ, HFXS ZH ULIN-GBKV WZGZ, MFNVILFH
XLNKZMRVH GLWZB ZIV DLIPRMT LM EZIRLFH PRMWH LU ULIN IVMVDZO, KIRLI GL
TLRMT GSILFTS Z IVXLTMRGRLM KILXVHH, YB FHRMT WILKLFG XLOLIH.  GSFH,
ZXJFRIRMT ZXXVHH GL ULIN WVHRTM LI FHRMT VOVXGILMRX NVZMH ZIV DLIGS
XLMHRWVIRMT.  SLLGLM ZOHL MLGVW GSZG XLMEVIHRLM FHFZOOB NZPVH LI YIVZPH
LMV'H RNZTRMT HBHGVN.  RG RH VCGIVNVOB RNKLIGZMG, VCGIVNVOB XLHGOB RM
GVINH LU VRGSVI XZKRGZO RMEVHGNVMG LI HVIERXV, ZMW WVGVINRMVH GSV JFZORGB
LU GSV IVNZRMWVI LU LMV'H HBHGVN, YVXZFHV RG WVGVINRMVH GSV XSZIZXGVI LU
GSV IZD NZGVIRZO FHVW YB GSV HBHGVN.

ZOO LU GSV RMWRXVH WIRERMT GSRH PRMW LU FHZTV DVIV LIRTRMZOOB WVERHVW ULI
HKVVW, NBOLMZH LYHVIEVW; RM LGSVI DLIWH, ZOO GSZG PRMW LU RMULINZGRLM--
ZOO ULINH LU ZOO DLIWH, DSVIV GSVB VCRHG, GSV WRXGRLMZIB ULIN GSVB YVOLMT
GL--DVIV XLOOVXGVW RMGL WZGZYZHVH, DSRXS DROO VCKVWRGV HVZIXSRMT.  GSVM
RG DZH WRHXLEVIVW GSZG LMV XZM WL GSRMTH HVZIXSRMT RM GSVHV WZGZYZHVH
GSZG XLFOW MLG YV WLMV HVZIXSRMT RM GSV UFOO GVCGH.  GSFH, ZOGSLFTS GSVIV
ZIV UFOO-GVCG HVZIXSVH RM KVIHVFH, NFXS LU GSV DLIP RH WLMV YVSRMW GSV
HXVMVH, FHRMT KIVKZIVW RMWRXVH.  IV GSV RMWVCRMT GSZG RH WLMV YVSRMW GSV
HXVMVH, NBOLMZH KLRMGVW LFG GSZG DRGSLFG GSV HTNO ULINH LU GSV GVCG, RG
XLFOW MLG YV WLMV VUUVXGREVOB.  NFXS LU GSRH RMWVCRMT RH YZHVW LM GSV
HGIFXGFIVH GSZG ZIV NZWV VCKORXRG YB GSV HTNO GZTTRMT.

RG DZH ULFMW GSZG LMV LU GSV GSRMTH NZMB LU KVIHVFH' MLM-TIVVP-IVZWRMT
FHVIH WL RH HGZIG UILN GSV WRXGRLMZIB ZMW GSVM NLEV RMGL GSV XOLHV HGFWB
LU DLIWH ZMW XLMXVKGH ERZ GSRH PRMW LU VMTORHS-TIVVP DLIW HVZIXS, YB DSRXS
NVZMH GSVB NRTSG HVOVXG Z XLMXVKG.  GSRH VCVIXRHV SZH YVVM ZHHRTMVW GL
HGFWVMGH RM XLIV XLFIHVH ZG SZIEZIW--GL HGFWB Z XLMXVKG YB OLLPRMT ULI GSV
VMTORHS DLIW RM GSV WRXGRLMZIB, URMWRMT GSV TIVVP DLIWH, ZMW GSVM URMWRMT
GSV DLIWH RM GSV TIVVP YFG, LU XLFIHV, IVZWRMT ZXILHH RM GSV VMTORHS.
GSZG GVOOH GSVN Z TIVZG WVZO ZYLFG DSZG Z GIZMHOZGRLM NVZMH ZH DVOO.

HSLFOW LMV ZOHL DRHS GL HVV RNZTVH GSZG SZEV GL WL DRGS HZXIRURXV, GSZG
KVIHLM DLFOW TL GL GSV LYQVXG PVB DLIW HVZIXS, DSRXS ZOOLDH LMV GL
KVIULIN Z HRNROZI PRMW LU RMWVC IVGIRVEZO LM GSV WZGZYZHV LU
ZIXSZVLOLTRXZO LYQVXGH.  DRGSLFG DLIWH, KRXGFIVH ZIV FHVOVHH; KVIHVFH SZH
MLG IVZXSVW GSV KLRMG DSVIV RG XZM WL NFXS DRGS RNZTVH GSZG ZIV MLG
XZGZOLTVW.  GSFH, ZOGSLFTS RG RH KLHHRYOV RM KVIHVFH DRGS GVCG ZMW RNZTVH
GL MZERTZGV YB PMLDRMT DSVIV LMV DZMGH GL VMW FK--ULI VCZNKOV, Z
IVW-URTFIV EZHV UILN GSV YLHGLM NFHVFN LU URMV ZIGH--LMV XZM KVIULIN GSRH
PRMW LU MZERTZGRLM EVIB VZHROB YB GIZXRMT WLDM RMWRXVH.  NBOLMZH
ROOFHGIZGVW HVEVIZO TVMVIRX HXVMVH LU HZXIRURXV LM EZHVH.  GSV UVZGFIVH
WVNLMHGIZGVW WVIREVW UILN KVIHVFH 1.0; EVIHRLM 2.0 DROO RNKOVNVMG VEVM
YVGGVI NVZMH LU IVGIRVEZO.

NBOLMZH XOLHVW YB OLLPRMT ZG LMV LU GSV KRXGFIVH ZMW MLGRMT ZTZRM GSZG
LMV XZM WL Z TIVZG WVZO LU IVHVZIXS FHRMT GSV RXLMLTIZKSB ZH DVOO ZH GSV
GVCGH.  ULI RMHGZMXV, HGFWVMGH RM Z XLIV XLFIHV ZG SZIEZIW GSRH BVZI DVIV
SRTSOB RMGVIVHGVW RM TIVVP XLMXVKGH LU ULIVRTMVIH ZMW IVKIVHVMGZGRLMH LU
MLM-TIVVPH.  HL GSVB KVIULINVW Z TIVZG WVZO LU IVHVZIXS, YLGS DRGS GVCGH
(V.T., SVILWLGFH) ZMW DRGS RXLMLTIZKSB LM EZHVH ZMW XLRMH, LM SLD GSV
TIVVPH KLIGIZBVW MLM-TIVVPH.  ZG GSV HZNV GRNV, ZIG SRHGLIRZMH DSL HGFWB
RXLMLTIZKSB DVIV ZOHL RMGVIVHGVW, ZMW DVIV ZYOV GL FHV GSRH NZGVIRZO.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
WRHXFHHRLM * RMWVCRMT ZMW HVZIXSZYRORGB LU ZOO VMTORHS DLIWH RM KVIHVFH *
HVEVIZO UVZGFIVH LU KVIHVFH 1.0 * HVEVIZO OVEVOH LU XFHGLNRAZGRLM
KLHHRYOV * KVIHVFH FHVW ULI TVMVIZO VWFXZGRLM * KVIHVFH' VUUVXGH LM
VWFXZGRLM * XLMGVCGFZO RMULINZGRLM RM KVIHVFH * NZRM XSZOOVMTV ZMW
VNKSZHRH LU KVIHVFH *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

HVEVIZO KLRMGH VNVITVW RM GSV WRHXFHHRLM GSZG ULOOLDVW NBOLMZH'H KIVHVMGZGRLM.

ZOGSLFTS NBOLMZH SZW MLG WVNLMHGIZGVW KVIHVFH' ZYRORGB GL XILHH-HVZIXS
WLXFNVMGH, HSV XLMURINVW GSZG ZOO VMTORHS DLIWH RM KVIHVFH ZIV RMWVCVW
ZMW XZM YV HVZIXSVW.  HL, ULI VCZNKOV, HZXIRURXV XLFOW SZEV YVVM HVZIXSVW
RM ZOO GVCGH, GSV SRHGLIRXZO VHHZB, ZMW ZOO GSV XZGZOLTFV VMGIRVH DRGS
GSVRI WVHXIRKGRLMH--RM HSLIG, RM ZOO LU KVIHVFH.

YLLOVZM OLTRX RH MLG RM KVIHVFH 1.0 YFG DROO YV ZWWVW GL GSV MVCG
EVIHRLM, ZOGSLFTS ZM VUULIG RH YVRMT NZWV MLG GL IVHGIRXG KVIHVFH GL Z
WZGZYZHV RM DSRXS LMV QFHG KVIULINH HVZIXSRMT, YLLOVZM LI LGSVIDRHV.  RG
RH KLHHRYOV GL NLEV OZGVIZOOB GSILFTS GSV WLXFNVMGH YB HVOVXGRMT Z DLIW
LMV RH RMGVIVHGVW RM ZMW HVOVXGRMT ZM ZIVZ LU RMULINZGRLM LMV RH
RMGVIVHGVW RM ZMW GIBRMT GL OLLP GSZG DLIW FK RM GSZG ZIVZ.

HRMXV KVIHVFH DZH WVEVOLKVW RM SBKVIXZIW, HVEVIZO OVEVOH LU XFHGLNRAZGRLM
ZIV KLHHRYOV.  HRNKOV ZFGSLIRMT GLLOH VCRHG GSZG ZOOLD LMV GL XIVZGV
ZMMLGZGVW KZGSH GSILFTS GSV RMULINZGRLM, DSRXS ZIV FHVUFO ULI MLGV-GZPRMT
ZMW ULI TFRWVW GLFIH ULI GVZXSRMT KFIKLHVH ZMW ULI VCKLHRGLIB DIRGRMT.
DRGS Z ORGGOV NLIV RMTVMFRGB RG RH KLHHRYOV GL YVTRM GL ZWW LI HFYHGRGFGV
NZGVIRZO RM KVIHVFH.

KVIHVFH SZH MLG YVVM FHVW HL NFXS ULI XOZHHRXH VWFXZGRLM ZH ULI TVMVIZO
VWFXZGRLM, DSVIV RG HVVNVW GL SZEV ZM RNKZXG LM GSV HGFWVMGH RM GSV XLIV
XLFIHV ZG SZIEZIW (Z TVMVIZO IVJFRIVW XLFIHV GSZG HGFWVMGH NFHG GZPV RM
XVIGZRM ZIVZH).  HGFWVMGH DVIV ZYOV GL FHV KIRNZIB NZGVIRZO NFXS NLIV.

GSV KVIHVFH KILQVXG SZH ZM VEZOFZGRLM GVZN ZG GSV FMREVIHRGB LU NZIBOZMW
GSZG SZH YVVM WLXFNVMGRMT KVIHVFH' VUUVXGH LM VWFXZGRLM.  KVIHVFH RH EVIB
KLKFOZI, ZMW ZMVXWLGZO VERWVMXV RMWRXZGVH GSZG RG RH SZERMT ZM VUUVXG ZG
KOZXVH LGSVI GSZM SZIEZIW, ULI VCZNKOV, GVHG HRGVH ZG YZOO HGZGV
FMREVIHRGB, WIFIB XLOOVTV, ZMW MFNVILFH HNZOO KOZXVH DSVIV LKKLIGFMRGRVH
GL FHV EZHG ZNLFMGH LU KIRNZIB WZGZ NZB MLG VCRHG.  LMV WLXFNVMGVW VUUVXG
RH GSZG ZIXSZVLOLTRXZO, ZMGSILKLOLTRXZO, ZMW KSROLOLTRXZO IVHVZIXS RH
YVRMT WLMV YB GSV HZNV KVIHLM RMHGVZW LU YB GSIVV WRUUVIVMG KVLKOV.

GSV XLMGVCGFZO RMULINZGRLM RM KVIHVFH RMXOFWVH ZM LEVIERVD VHHZB, Z
UZRIOB ORMVZI SRHGLIRXZO VHHZB LM GSV URUGS XVMGFIB Y.X. GSZG KILERWVH
ORMPH RMGL GSV KIRNZIB NZGVIRZO (V.T., SVILWLGFH, GSFXBWRWVH, ZMW
KOFGZIXS), ERZ HNZOO TIZB FMWVIHXLIRMT (LM GSV HXIVVM) LU ORMPVW
KZHHZTVH.  GSVHV ZIV SZMWNZWV ORMPH RMGL LGSVI NZGVIRZO.

GL WRUUVIVMG VCGVMGH, NLHG LU GSV KILWFXGRLM DLIP DZH WLMV ZG SZIEZIW,
DSVIV GSV KVLKOV ZMW GSV VJFRKNVMG ZIV OLXZGVW.  NFXS LU GSV
XLOOZYLIZGREV ZXGRERGB RMELOEVW WZGZ XLOOVXGRLM ZMW HGIFXGFIRMT, YVXZFHV
GSV NZRM XSZOOVMTV ZMW GSV VNKSZHRH LU KVIHVFH RH GSV TZGSVIRMT LU
KIRNZIB NZGVIRZO, GSZG RH, YFROWRMT Z FHVUFO VMERILMNVMG ULI HGFWBRMT
XOZHHRXZO TIVVXV, XLOOVXGRMT WZGZ, ZMW NZPRMT RG FHVUFO.
HBHGVNH-YFROWRMT RH WVURMRGVOB MLG GSV NZRM XLMXVIM.  GSFH, NFXS LU GSV
DLIP SZH RMELOEVW DIRGRMT VHHZBH, XLOOVXGRMT RMULINZGRLM, IVDIRGRMT RG,
ZMW GZTTRMT RG.  GSZG XZM YV WLMV LUU HRGV.  GSV XIVZGREV ORMP ULI GSV
LEVIERVD VHHZB ZH DVOO ZH ULI YLGS HBHGVNH ZMW WZGZ DZH XLOOZYLIZGREV,
ZMW DZH ULITVW ERZ V-NZRO ZMW KZKVI NZRO DRGS KILUVHHLIH ZG KLNLMZ ZMW
YLDWLRM.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
XZOZOFXZ * KOW'H KIRMXRKZO ULXFH ZMW XLMGIRYFGRLM GL HXSLOZIHSRK *
EZIRLFH JFVHGRLMH KIVKZIZGLIB GL YVTRMMRMT GSV KILQVXG * YZHRH ULI
KILQVXG * YZHRX IFOV RM XLMEVIGRMT KOW * XLMXVIMRMT GSV RNZTVH RM KOW *
IFMMRMT KOW FMWVI Z EZIRVGB LU IVGIRVEZO HLUGDZIVH * VMXLWRMT GSV
WZGZYZHV Z SZIW-ULFTSG RHHFV * EZIRLFH UVZGFIVH WVNLMHGIZGVW * RNKLIGZMXV
LU FHVI WLXFNVMGZGRLM * ORNRGZGRLMH LU GSV XW-ILN EVIHRLM *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

VIRX XZOZOFXZ, ERXV KIVHRWVMG, XSZWDBXP-SVZOVB, RMX., WVNLMHGIZGVW Z
HLUGDZIV RMGVIKIVGZGRLM LU GSV KZGILOLTRZ OZGRMZ WZGZYZHV (KOW).  KOW'H
KIRMXRKZO ULXFH UILN GSV YVTRMMRMT LU GSV KILQVXG ZYLFG GSIVV-ZMW-Z-SZOU
BVZIH ZTL DZH LM XLMEVIGRMT NRTMV'H OZGRM HVIRVH, ZMW RM GSV VMW,
XZOZOFXZ HFTTVHGVW, XLMEVIHRLM LU GSV GVCG DROO YV GSV NZQLI XLMGIRYFGRLM
GL HXSLOZIHSRK.  XZOZOFXZ HGIVHHVW GSZG, ZH KLHHRYOB GSV LMOB KIREZGV
KFYORHSRMT LITZMRAZGRLM ZG GSV DLIPHSLK, XSZWDBXP-SVZOVB SZW HLFTSG ML
UVWVIZO UFMWH LI MZGRLMZO ULFMWZGRLM HFKKLIG YVULIV VNYZIPRMT FKLM GSV
KILQVXG, YFG RMHGVZW SZW IVORVW FKLM Z TIVZG WVZO LU SLNVDLIP ZMW
NZIPVGRMT GL ZXXLNKORHS GSV GZHP LU XLMEVIHRLM.

VEVI HRMXV GSV KLHHRYRORGRVH LU XLNKFGVI-HVZIXSRMT SZEV VNVITVW, HXSLOZIH
RM GSV URVOW LU OZGV ZMXRVMG ZMW VZIOB NVWRVEZO HGFWRVH (KSROLHLKSVIH,
GSVLOLTRZMH, XOZHHRXRHGH, ZMW GSLHV HGFWBRMT GSV SRHGLIB LU MZGFIZO OZD
ZMW GSV SRHGLIB LU GSV OVTZO WVEVOLKNVMG LU DVHGVIM XRERORAZGRLM) SZEV
YVVM OLMTRMT ULI Z UFOOB HVZIXSZYOV EVIHRLM LU DVHGVIM ORGVIZGFIV, ULI
VCZNKOV, ZOO GSV GVCGH LU ZFTFHGRMV ZMW YVIMZIW LU XOZRIEZFC ZMW
YLVGSRFH, MLG GL NVMGRLM ZOO GSV HVXLMWZIB ZMW GVIGRZIB ZFGSLIH.

EZIRLFH JFVHGRLMH ZILHV, XZOZOFXZ HZRW.  HSLFOW LMV XLMEVIG NRTMV?
HSLFOW GSV WZGZYZHV YV VMXLWVW?  RH RG MVXVHHZIB GL WL GSZG?  SLD HSLFOW
RG YV WVOREVIVW?  DSZG ZYLFG XW-ILN?  HRMXV GSRH RH Z GIZMHRGRLMZO
NVWRFN, DSB VEVM YLGSVI GL XIVZGV HLUGDZIV GL IFM LM Z XW-ILN?  HRMXV
VEVIBYLWB PMLDH KVLKOV DROO YV MVGDLIPRMT RMULINZGRLM, DSB TL GL GSV
GILFYOV--DSRXS RH UZI TIVZGVI DRGS XW-ILN GSZM DRGS GSV KILWFXGRLM LU
NZTMVGRX WZGZ?  URMZOOB, SLD WLVH LMV NZPV GSV WZGZ ZEZROZYOV?  XZM NZMB
LU GSV SFIWOVH GL FHRMT VOVXGILMRX RMULINZGRLM GSZG HLNV KFYORHSVIH SZEV
RNKLHVW FKLM WZGZYZHVH YV VORNRMZGVW?

GSV KOW KILQVXG DZH YZHVW LM GSV KIRMXRKOV GSZG XLNKFGVI-HVZIXSRMT LU
GVCGH RH NLHG VUUVXGREV DSVM RG RH WLMV DRGS Z OZITV WZGZYZHV.  YVXZFHV
KOW IVKIVHVMGVW Z XLOOVXGRLM GSZG HVIEVH HL NZMB WRHXRKORMVH ZXILHH HL
NZMB KVIRLWH, RG DZH RIIVHRHGRYOV.

GSV YZHRX IFOV RM XLMEVIGRMT KOW DZH GL WL ML SZIN, GL ZELRW GSV HRMH LU
RMGIFHRLM RM HFXS Z WZGZYZHV:  ML RMGILWFXGRLM LU MVDVI VWRGRLMH, ML
LM-GSV-HKLG XSZMTVH, ML VIZWRXZGRMT LU ZOO KLHHRYOV UZOHVSLLWH UILN ZM
VWRGRLM.  GSFH, KOW RH MLG GSV URMZO ZXG RM VOVXGILMRX KFYORHSRMT ULI
GSRH WRHXRKORMV, YFG HRNKOB GSV YVTRMMRMT.  GSV XLMEVIHRLM LU KOW SZH
VELPVW MFNVILFH FMZMGRXRKZGVW JFVHGRLMH:  SLD DROO RMULINZGRLM YV FHVW?
DSZG ZYLFG MVGDLIPRMT?  XZM GSV IRTSGH LU Z WZGZYZHV YV KILGVXGVW?
HSLFOW LMV KILGVXG GSV IRTSGH LU Z WZGZYZHV?  SLD XZM RG YV NZWV
ZEZROZYOV?

GSLHV XLMEVIGRMT KOW ZOHL GIRVW GL ZELRW GSV HRMH LU LNRHHRLM, GSZG RH,
VCXOFWRMT KLIGRLMH LU GSV XLOOVXGRLMH LI DSLOV HVXGRLMH.  DSZG ZYLFG GSV
RNZTVH?  KOW RH UFOO LU RNZTVH, HLNV ZIV VCGIVNVOB KRLFH
MRMVGVVMGS-XVMGFIB IVKIVHVMGZGRLMH LU GSV UZGSVIH, DSROV LGSVIH XLMGZRM
SRTSOB RMGVIVHGRMT VOVNVMGH.  GSV TLZO DZH GL XLEVI ZOO GSV GVCG LU NRTMV
(RMXOFWRMT MLGVH, RM TIVVP ZMW RM SVYIVD, GSV OZGGVI LU DSRXS, RM
KZIGRXFOZI, XZFHVH KILYOVNH RM XIVZGRMT Z HVZIXS HGIFXGFIV), ZOO GSV
RMWRXVH, ZMW VEVM GSV RNZTVH, DSRXS ZIV YVRMT HXZMMVW RM HVKZIZGVOB
HVZIXSZYOV UROVH.

HVEVIZO MLIGS ZNVIRXZM RMHGRGFGRLMH GSZG SZEV KOZXVW ZXJFRHRGRLM IVJFVHGH
ULI GSV KOW WZGZYZHV SZEV IVJFVHGVW RG RM NZTMVGRX ULIN DRGSLFG HLUGDZIV,
DSRXS NVZMH GSVB ZIV ZOIVZWB IFMMRMT RG DRGSLFG HLUGDZIV, DRGSLFG
ZMBGSRMT WVNLMHGIZGVW ZG GSV DLIPHSLK.

DSZG XZMMLG KIZXGRXZOOB YV WLMV RH TL YZXP ZMW IVXLMEVIG ZMW IV-VMXLWV
WZGZ, Z GRNV-XLMHFNRMT ZMW VCGIVNVOB XLHGOB VMGVIKIRHV.  XZOZOFXZ HVVH
KOW ZH Z WZGZYZHV GSZG XZM, ZMW HSLFOW, YV IFM FMWVI Z EZIRVGB LU
IVGIRVEZO HLUGDZIVH.  GSRH DROO KVINRG GSV DRWVHG KLHHRYOV HVZIXSVH.
XLMHVJFVMGOB, GSV MVVW GL KILWFXV Z XW-ILN LU KOW, ZH DVOO ZH GL WVEVOLK
HLUGDZIV GSZG XLFOW SZMWOV HLNV 1.3 TRTZYBGV LU SVZEROB VMXLWVW GVCG,
WVEVOLKVW LFG LU XLMEVIHZGRLMH DRGS XLOOVXGRLM WVEVOLKNVMG ZMW IVUVIVMXV
ORYIZIRZMH DSL DZMGVW HLUGDZIV YLGS XLNKZHHRLMZGV VMLFTS ULI GSV
KVWVHGIRZM YFG ZOHL XZKZYOV LU RMXLIKLIZGRMT GSV NLHG WVGZROVW
OVCRXLTIZKSRXZO HGFWRVH GSZG Z FHVI WVHRIVH GL XLMWFXG.  RM GSV VMW, GSV
VMXLWRMT ZMW XLMEVIHRLM LU GSV WZGZ DROO KILEV GSV NLHG VMWFIRMT
GVHGZNVMG GL GSV EZOFV LU GSV KILQVXG.

GSV VMXLWRMT LU GSV WZGZYZHV DZH ZOHL Z SZIW-ULFTSG RHHFV:  WRW GSV
WZGZYZHV MVVW GL YV VMXLWVW? DVIV GSVIV MLINZGREV HGIFXGFIVH ULI VMXLWRMT
SFNZMRHG GVCGH?  HSLFOW RG YV HTNO?  DSZG ZYLFG GSV GVR--DROO RG OZHG,
DROO RG KILEV FHVUFO?  XZOZOFXZ VCKIVHHVW HLNV NRMLI WLFYGH ZH GL DSVGSVI
Z WZGZ YZMP XZM YV UFOOB GVR-XLMULINZMG.  VEVIB VUULIG XZM YV NZWV, YFG
RM GSV VMW GL YV GVR-XLMULINZMG NVZMH GL ZXXVKG GSV MVVW GL NZPV HLNV
URIN VMXLWRMT WVXRHRLMH GSZG XZM, RMWVVW, YV WRHKFGVW.  GSV GVR KLRMGH
GSV KFYORHSVI RM Z KILKVI WRIVXGRLM YFG WLVH MLG KIVHFNV GL NZPV ZOO GSV
WVXRHRLMH ULI SRN LI SVI.  VHHVMGRZOOB, GSV TLZO LU VMXLWRMT DZH GL
VORNRMZGV, ZH NFXS ZH KLHHRYOV, GSV SRMWIZMXVH GL RMULINZGRLM-MVGDLIPRMT,
HL GSZG RU ZM RMHGRGFGRLM ZXJFRIVH Z WZGZYZHV, VEVIBYLWB ZHHLXRZGVW DRGS
GSV RMHGRGFGRLM XZM SZEV ZXXVHH GL RG.

XZOZOFXZ WVNLMHGIZGVW Z KLIGRLM LU ELOFNV 160, YVXZFHV RG SZW GSV NLHG
ZMLNZORVH RM RG.  GSV HLUGDZIV DZH XIVZGVW YB VOVXGILMRX YLLP
GVXSMLOLTRVH LU KILERWVMXV, IR, ZMW RH XZOOVW WBMZGVCG.  GSV HLUGDZIV
DLIPH LMOB DRGS HTNO-XLWVW WZGZ.

ERVDRMT Z GZYOV LU XLMGVMGH LM GSV HXIVVM, GSV ZFWRVMXV HZD SLD WBMZGVCG
GIVZGH VZXS VOVNVMG ZH Z YLLP ZMW ZGGVNKGH GL HRNKORUB NLEVNVMG GSILFTS Z
ELOFNV.  UZNRORZIRGB DRGS GSV KZGILOLTRZ RM KIRMG (R.V., GSV GVCG, RGH
HLFIXV, ZMW GSV VWRGRLMH) DROO NZPV GSV NZXSRMV-IVZWZYOV EVIHRLMH SRTSOB
FHVUFO.  (HLUGDZIV DRGS Z DRMWLDH ZKKORXZGRLM DZH HLFTSG ULI KOW,
XZOZOFXZ HZRW, YVXZFHV GSRH DZH GSV NZRM GIVMW ULI HXSLOZIOB FHV.)

XZOZOFXZ ZOHL WVNLMHGIZGVW SLD Z FHVI XZM KVIULIN Z EZIRVGB LU HVZIXSVH
ZMW JFRXPOB NLEV GL ZMB KZIG LU Z ELOFNV; GSV OLLP-FK HXIVVM KILERWVH
HLNV YZHRX, HRNKOV DLIW-HVZIXSRMT.

XZOZOFXZ ZITFVW GSZG LMV LU GSV NZQLI WRUURXFOGRVH RH MLG GSV HLUGDZIV.
IZGSVI, RM XIVZGRMT Z KILWFXG GSZG DROO YV FHVW YB HXSLOZIH IVKIVHVMGRMT
Z YILZW HKVXGIFN LU XLNKFGVI HLKSRHGRXZGRLM,  FHVI WLXFNVMGZGRLM KILEVH
GL YV GSV NLHG RNKLIGZMG HVIERXV LMV XZM KILERWV.

XZOZOFXZ MVCG ROOFHGIZGVW Z GIFMXZGVW HVZIXS FMWVI NBHGVIRFN DRGSRM GVM
DLIWH LU ERIGFH ZMW SLD LMV DLFOW YV ZYOV GL URMW RGH XLMGVMGH GSILFTSLFG
GSV VMGRIV WZGZYZHV.  SV HZRW GSZG GSV VCXRGRMT GSRMT ZYLFG KOW RH GSZG
NZMB LU GSV ZKKORXZGRLMH RM GSV IVGIRVEZO HLUGDZIV YVRMT DIRGGVM ULI RG
DROO VCXVVW GSV XZKZYRORGRVH LU GSV HLUGDZIV VNKOLBVW MLD ULI GSV XW-ILN
EVIHRLM.  GSV XW-ILN UZXVH TVMFRMV ORNRGZGRLMH, RM GVINH LU HKVVW ZMW
XLNKIVSVMHREVMVHH, RM GSV XIVZGRLM LU Z IVGIRVEZO HLUGDZIV GL IFM RG.
XZOZOFXZ HZRW SV SLKVW GSZG RMWRERWFZO HXSLOZIH DROO WLDMOLZW GSV WZGZ,
RU GSVB DRHS, GL GSVRI KVIHLMZO XLNKFGVIH, ZMW SZEV IVZWB ZXXVHH GL
RNKLIGZMG GVCGH LM Z XLMHGZMG YZHRH, DSRXS GSVB DROO YV ZYOV GL FHV RM
GSVRI IVHVZIXS ZMW UILN DSRXS GSVB NRTSG VEVM YV ZYOV GL KFYORHS.

(XZOZOFXZ VCKOZRMVW GSZG GSV YOFV MFNYVIH IVKIVHVMGVW NRTMV'H XLOFNM MFNYVIH,
DSRXS ZIV GSV HGZMWZIW HXSLOZIOB IVUVIVMXVH.  KFOORMT FK Z MLGV, SV HGZGVW
GSZG GSVHV GVCGH DVIV SVZEROB VWRGVW ZMW GSV RNZTV UROVH DLFOW ZKKVZI HRNKOB
ZH Z MLGV ZH DVOO, HL GSZG LMV XLFOW JFRXPOB ZXXVHH ZM RNZTV.)

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
UOVRHXSSZFVI/VIDZB * HVEVIZO KILYOVNH DRGS DSRXS ZN RH HGROO DIVHGORMT *
EZIRLFH HVZIXS ZMW IVGIRVEZO XZKZYRORGRVH * ROOFHGIZGRLM LU ZFGLNZGRX
HGVNNRMT ZMW Z GIFMXZGVW HVZIXS * ZN'H ZGGVNKG GL URMW DZBH GL XLMMVXG
XZGZOLTRMT GL GSV GVCGH * ZN'H TIZERGZGRLM GLDZIWH HTNO * HGIRPRMT Z
YZOZMXV YVGDVVM JFZMGRGB ZMW JFZORGB * SLD ZN UFIMRHSVH FHVIH IVXLFIHV GL
RNZTVH * XLMWFXGRMT Z HVZIXS RM Z UFOO-GVCG VMERILMNVMG * NZXRMGLHS ZMW
RYN KILGLGBKVH LU ZN * NFOGRNVWRZ ZHKVXGH LU ZN *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Z WVNLMHGIZGRLM LU ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB YB RGH XLLIWRMZGLI, XZIO UOVRHXSSZFVI,
ZMW IRXPB VIDZB, ZHHLXRZGV XLLIWRMZGLI, ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH, XLMXOFWVW
GSV NLIMRMT HVHHRLM.  YVTRMMRMT DRGS Z XLOOVXGRLM LU YILZWHRWVH UILN GSV
XLMGRMVMGZO XLMTIVHH ZMW GSV XLMHGRGFGRLMZO XLMEVMGRLM, GSV LMOB GVCG
XLOOVXGRLM RM Z KIVHVMGZYOV ULIN ZG GSV GRNV LU GSV DLIPHSLK, UOVRHXSSZFVI
SRTSORTSGVW HVEVIZO LU GSV KILYOVNH DRGS DSRXS ZN RH HGROO DIVHGORMT.
(RM RGH URMZO ULIN, GSV WRHP DROO XLMGZRM GDL XLOOVXGRLMH, MLG LMOB GSV
YILZWHRWVH YFG ZOHL GSV UFOO GVCG DRGS ROOFHGIZGRLMH LU Z HVG LU
ZKKILCRNZGVOB 300 ZUIRXZM-ZNVIRXZM KZNKSOVGH UILN GSV KVIRLW 1870 GL 1910.)

ZH UIVVNZM SZW VCKOZRMVW VZIORVI, ZN SZH ZGGVNKGVW GL FHV Z HNZOO ZNLFMG
LU RMGVIKIVGZGRLM GL RMGILWFXV XLOOVXGRLMH.  RM GSV KIVHVMG XZHV, GSV
XLMGIZXGLI, Z XLNKZMB MZNVW JFRXP HLFIXV, RM HROEVI HKIRMT, NW., FHVW
HLUGDZIV XZOOVW GLLOYLLP ZMW KFG GLTVGSVI Z NLWVHGOB RMGVIZXGREV
RMGILWFXGRLM GL GSV XLOOVXGRLM.  ORPV GSV GDL KIVXVWRMT HKVZPVIH,
UOVRHXSSZFVI ZITFVW GSZG GSV IVZO ZHHVG DZH GSV FMWVIOBRMT XLOOVXGRLM.

UOVRHXSSZFVI KILXVVWVW GL WVHXIRYV EZIRLFH HVZIXS ZMW IVGIRVEZO
XZKZYRORGRVH DSROV VIDZB DLIPVW GSV XLNKFGVI.  RM GSRH KZIGRXFOZI KZXPZTV
GSV "TL GL" KFOO-WLDM ZOOLDVW GSV FHVI RM VUUVXG GL QFNK LFG LU GLLOYLLP,
DSVIV GSV RMGVIZXGREV KILTIZN DZH OLXZGVW, ZMW VMGVI GSV GSRIW-KZIGB
HLUGDZIV FHVW YB ZN ULI GSRH GVCG XLOOVXGRLM, DSRXS RH XZOOVW KVIHLMZO
ORYIZIRZM.  GSRH DZH GSV DRMWLDH EVIHRLM LU KVIHLMZO ORYIZIRZM, Z
HLUGDZIV ZKKORXZGRLM KFG GLTVGSVI YB Z XLNKZMB RM ILXPEROOV, NW.

HRMXV GSV YILZWHRWVH XZNV UILN GSV IVELOFGRLMZIB DZI KVIRLW, Z HVZIXS DZH
XLMWFXGVW FHRMT GSV DLIWH YIRGRHS LI DZI, DRGS GSV WVUZFOG LKVIZGLI IVHVG
ZH LI.  UOVRHXSSZFVI WVNLMHGIZGVW YLGS ZFGLNZGRX HGVNNRMT (DSRXS URMWH
LGSVI ULINH LU GSV HZNV ILLG) ZMW Z GIFMXZGVW HVZIXS.  LMV LU KVIHLMZO
ORYIZIRZM'H HGILMTVHG UVZGFIVH, GSV IVOVEZMXV IZMPRMT, DZH IVKIVHVMGVW YB
Z XSZIG GSZG RMWRXZGVW SLD LUGVM DLIWH YVRMT HLFTSG ZKKVZIVW RM
WLXFNVMGH, DRGS GSV LMV IVXVRERMT GSV NLHG "SRGH" LYGZRMRMT GSV SRTSVHG
HXLIV.  GSV "SRG ORHG" GSZG RH HFKKORVW GZPVH GSV IVOVEZMXV IZMPRMT RMGL
ZXXLFMG, NZPRMT GSV URIHG SRG, RM VUUVXG, GSV LMV GSV HLUGDZIV SZH
HVOVXGVW ZH GSV NLHG IVOVEZMG VCZNKOV.

DSROV RM GSV GVCG LU LMV LU GSV YILZWHRWV WLXFNVMGH, UOVRHXSSZFVI
IVNZIPVW ZN'H ZGGVNKG GL URMW DZBH GL XLMMVXG XZGZOLTRMT GL GSV GVCGH,
DSRXS RG WLVH RM WRUUVIVMG DZBH RM WRUUVIVMG NZMRUVHGZGRLMH.  RM GSV XZHV
HSLDM, GSV XZGZOLTRMT DZH KZHGVW LM:  ZN GLLP NZIX IVXLIWH GSZG DVIV
DIRGGVM ZH LM-ORMV IVXLIWH IRTSG RMGL LMV LU GSV ORYIZIB'H NZRMUIZNV
IVGIRVEZO KILTIZNH, KFOOVW GSVN LFG, ZMW SZMWVW GSVN LUU GL GSV XLMGIZXGLI,
DSL NZHHZTVW GSVN HLNVDSZG GL WRHKOZB GSVN RM GSV NZMMVI HSLDM.  LMV LU
ZN'H JFVHGRLMH RH, WLVH GSV XZGZOLTFRMT MLINZOOB KVIULINVW RM GSV NZRMUIZNV
DLIP RM GSRH XLMGVCG, LI SZW ZN LFTSG GL GSRMP GSILFTS ZWQFHGNVMGH?

UOVRHXSSZFVI NZWV GSV ZWWRGRLMZO KLRMG GSZG, ZH UZI ZH GSV GVCG TLVH, ZN
SZH TIZERGZGVW GLDZIWH HTNO (SV KLRMGVW GL GSV YLOWUZXV RM GSV FKKVI KZIG
LU GSV HXIVVM).  ZOGSLFTS VCGIVNVOB ORNRGVW RM RGH ZYRORGB GL GIZMHOZGV
LI RMGVIKIVG HTNO, KVIHLMZO ORYIZIRZM DROO UFIMRHS YLGS YLOW ZMW RGZORXH
LM HXIVVM; Z UZRIOB VZHB GSRMT GL WL, YFG RG RH LMV LU GSV DZBH RM DSRXS
HTNO RH FHVUFO.

HGIRPRMT Z YZOZMXV YVGDVVM JFZMGRGB ZMW JFZORGB SZH YVVM Z NZQLI XLMXVIM
LU ZN, DRGS ZXXFIZXB YVRMT LMV LU GSV KOZXVH DSVIV KILQVXG HGZUU SZEV
UVOG GSZG OVHH GSZM 100-KVIXVMG ZXXFIZXB DZH MLG FMZXXVKGZYOV.
UOVRHXSSZFVI XRGVW GSV VCZNKOV LU GSV HGZMWZIW LU GSV IVPVBRMT RMWFHGIB,
MZNVOB 99.95 KVIXVMG; ZH LMV HVIERXV YFIVZF RMULINVW SRN, GL TL UILN
99.95 GL 100 KVIXVMG DLFOW WLFYOV GSV XLHG.

UOVRHXSSZFVI MVCG WVNLMHGIZGVW SLD ZN UFIMRHSVH FHVIH IVXLFIHV GL RNZTVH,
ZMW ZG GSV HZNV GRNV IVXZOOVW OVHP'H KLRMGVW JFVHGRLM XLMXVIMRMT GSV
MFNYVI LU KVLKOV DSL DLFOW OLLP ZG GSLHV RNZTVH ZMW GSV MFNYVI DSL DLFOW
DLIP LMOB DRGS GSV GVCG.  RU GSV RNKORXZGRLM LU OVHP'H JFVHGRLM DZH
HLFMW, UOVRHXSSZFVI HZRW, RG IZRHVW GSV HGZPVH ULI GVCG ZXXFIZXB ZMW
IVWFXVW GSV EZOFV LU GSV HGIZGVTB ULI RNZTVH.

XLMGVMWRMT GSZG KIVHVIEZGRLM RH ZODZBH Z YFTZYLL, UOVRHXSSZFVI
WVNLMHGIZGVW HVEVIZO RNZTVH WVIREVW UILN Z HXZM LU Z KIVHVIEZGRLM
NRXILURON GSZG ZN SZW NZWV.  SV ZDZIWVW Z TIZWV LU X ZG YVHG, KVISZKH Z
X NRMFH LI Z X KOFH, ULI SLD DVOO RG DLIPVW LFG.  RMWVVW, GSV NZGGVI LU
OVZIMRMT RU LGSVI KVLKOV SZW YVGGVI RWVZH ZYLFG HXZMMRMT RM TVMVIZO, ZMW,
RM KZIGRXFOZI, HXZMMRMT UILN NRXILURON, DZH LMV LU GSV UZXGLIH GSZG WILEV
ZN GL ZGGVNKG GL GSRMP GSILFTS GSV ZTVMWZ ULI GSV DLIPHSLK.  HPVD, ULI
VCZNKOV, DZH LMV LU GSV RHHFVH GSZG ZN RM RGH RTMLIZMXV SZW MLG IVXPLMVW
DLFOW KILEV HL WRUURXFOG.

UFIGSVI, GSV SZMWORMT LU RNZTVH LU GSV HLIG HSLDM, RM Z WVHPGLK XLNKFGVI
VMERILMNVMG, RMELOEVW Z XLMHRWVIZYOV ZNLFMG LU ALLNRMT ZMW HXILOORMT.
FOGRNZGVOB, ZN HGZUU UVVO GSZG KVISZKH GSV KZKVI XLKB GSZG RH KIRMGVW LFG
NRTSG YV GSV NLHG FHVUFO LMV, YFG GSVB IVNZRM FMXVIGZRM ZH GL SLD NFXS
LM-HXIVVM IVZWRMT FHVIH DROO WL.

IVGFIMRMT GL GSV GVCG, UOVRHXSSZFVI ZHPVW ERVDVIH GL RNZTRMV Z KVIHLM DSL
NRTSG YV XLMWFXGRMT Z HVZIXS RM Z UFOO-GVCG VMERILMNVMG.  DRGS GSRH
HXVMZIRL, SV KILXVVWVW GL ROOFHGIZGV LGSVI UVZGFIVH LU KVIHLMZO ORYIZIRZM
GSZG SV XLMHRWVIVW SVOKUFO; ULI VCZNKOV, RG KILERWVH GSV ZYRORGB GL
MLGRXV DLIWH ZH LMV IVZWH.  XORXPRMT GSV "RMXOFWV" YFGGLM LM GSV YLGGLN
LU GSV HVZIXS DRMWLD KLKH GSV DLIWH GSZG SZEV YVVM SRTSORTSGVW RMGL GSV
HVZIXS.  GSFH, Z FHVI XZM IVURMV GSV HVZIXS ZH SV LI HSV IVZWH,
IV-VCVXFGRMT GSV HVZIXS ZMW XLMGRMFRMT GL URMW GSRMTH RM GSV JFVHG ULI
NZGVIRZOH.  GSRH HLUGDZIV MLG LMOB XLMGZRMH IVOVEZMXV IZMPRMT, YLLOVZM
LKVIZGLIH, ZMW GIFMXZGRLM, RG ZOHL KVINRGH LMV GL KVIULIN DLIW ZOTVYIZ,
HL GL HZB, DSVIV LMV KFGH GDL LI GSIVV DLIWH RM KZIVMGSVHVH ZMW ORMPH
GSVN DRGS LMV YLLOVZM LKVIZGLI ZMW GSVM Z XLFKOV LU DLIWH RM ZMLGSVI HVG
LU KZIVMGSVHVH ZMW ZHPH ULI GSRMTH DRGSRM HL NZMB DLIWH LU LGSVIH.

FMGRO GSVB YVXZNV ZXJFZRMGVW IVXVMGOB DRGS HLNV LU GSV DLIP YVRMT WLMV RM
XOZHHRXH, GSV ZN HGZUU SZW MLG IVZORAVW GSZG Z OZITV MFNYVI LU GSV
KILQVXGH GSZG RMELOEV VOVXGILMRX GVCGH DVIV YVRMT WLMV YB KVLKOV DRGS Z
KILULFMW RMGVIVHG RM OZMTFZTV ZMW ORMTFRHGRXH.  GSVRI HVZIXS HGIZGVTRVH
ZMW GSRMPRMT ZIV LIRVMGVW GL GSLHV URVOWH, ZH RH HSLDM RM KZIGRXFOZI YB
GSV KVIHVFH VCZNKOV.  ZH ZNZGVFI SRHGLIRZMH, GSV ZN HGZUU DVIV GSRMPRMT
NLIV LU HVZIXSRMT ULI XLMXVKGH ZMW RWVZH GSZM ULI KZIGRXFOZI DLIWH.
LYERLFHOB, UOVRHXSSZFVI XLMXVWVW, HVZIXSRMT ULI XLMXVKGH ZMW RWVZH ZMW
HVZIXSRMT ULI DLIWH NZB YV GDL IZGSVI XOLHVOB IVOZGVW GSRMTH.

DSROV WRHKOZBRMT HVEVIZO RNZTVH, UOVRHXSSZFVI LYHVIEVW GSZG GSV NZXRMGLHS
KILGLGBKV YFROG YB ZN XLMGZRMH Z TIVZGVI WREVIHRGB LU ULINZGH.  VXSLRMT Z
KIVERLFH HKVZPVI, SV HZRW GSZG RG DZH VZHRVI GL HGRGXS GSRMTH GLTVGSVI RM
GSV NZXRMGLHS, GSLFTS RG GVMWVW GL YV Z ORGGOV NLIV ZMVNRX RM HVZIXS ZMW
IVGIRVEZO.  ZN, GSVIVULIV, RMXIVZHRMTOB SZH YVVM RMEVHGRTZGRMT
HLKSRHGRXZGVW IVGIRVEZO VMTRMVH RM GSV RYN ULINZG.

UOVRHXSSZFVI WVNLMHGIZGVW HVEVIZO ZWWRGRLMZO VCZNKOVH LU GSV KILGLGBKV
RMGVIUZXVH:  LMV DZH ZN'H NVGZKSLI ULI GSV MVGDLIP UFGFIV, RM DSRXS Z
PRMW LU IVZWRMT-ILLN TIZKSRX HFTTVHGH SLD LMV DLFOW YV ZYOV GL TL ZILFMW
GL WRUUVIVMG NZGVIRZOH.  ZN XLMGZRMH Z OZITV MFNYVI LU KSLGLTIZKSH RM
ZMZOLT ERWVL ULIN DLIPVW FK UILN Z ERWVLWRHX, DSRXS VMZYOV FHVIH GL NZPV
XLKRVH GL KIRMG LI RMXLIKLIZGV RM WRTRGZO WLXFNVMGH.  Z UIZNV-TIZYYVI RH
YFROG RMGL GSV HBHGVN, NZPRMT RG KLHHRYOV GL YIRMT ZM RNZTV RMGL Z DRMWLD
ZMW WRTRGRAV LI KIRMG RG LFG.

UOVRHXSSZFVI MVCG WVNLMHGIZGVW HLFMW IVXLIWRMT, DSRXS RMXOFWVW GVCGH.
IVXBXOVW UILN Z KIVERLFH KILQVXG, GSV XLOOVXGRLM RMXOFWVW HRCGB 78-IKN
KSLMLTIZKS IVXLIWH LU KLORGRXZO HKVVXSVH GSZG DVIV NZWV WFIRMT ZMW
RNNVWRZGVOB ZUGVI DLIOW DZI R.  GSVHV XLMHGRGFGVW ZKKILCRNZGVOB GSIVV
SLFIH LU ZFWRL, ZH ZN SZH WRTRGRAVW RG, DSRXS LXXFKB 150 NVTZYBGVH LM Z
XW.  GSFH, GSVB ZIV XLMHRWVIZYOB XLNKIVHHVW.  UILN GSV XZGZOLTFV XZIW,
UOVRHXSSZFVI KILXVVWVW GL Z GIZMHXIRKG LU Z HKVVXS DRGS GSV ZFWRL
ZEZROZYOV ZMW DRGS SRTSORTSGVW GVCG ULOOLDRMT RG ZH RG KOZBVW.
Z KSLGLTIZKS SZH YVVM ZWWVW ZMW Z GIZMHXIRKGRLM NZWV.

