for making a new version of preexisting material, provided it manifests
some spark of creativity.

However, copyright does not protect ideas, methods, systems--only the way
that one expresses those things.  Nor does copyright protect anything
that is mechanical, anything that does not involve choice, or criteria
concerning whether or not one should do a thing.  For example, the
results of a process called declicking, in which one mechanically removes
impure sounds from old recordings, are not copyrightable.  On the other
hand, the choice to record a song digitally and to increase the sound of
violins or to bring up the tympani constitutes the results of conversion
that are copyrightable.  Moreover, if a work is protected by copyright in
the United States, one generally needs the permission of the copyright
owner to convert it.  Normally, who will own the new--that is, converted-
-material is a matter of contract.  In the absence of a contract, the
person who creates the new material is the author and owner.  But people
do not generally think about the copyright implications until after the
fact.  PETERS stressed the need when dealing with copyrighted works to
think about copyright in advance.  One's bargaining power is much greater
up front than it is down the road.

PETERS next discussed works not protected by copyright, for example, any
work done by a federal employee as part of his or her official duties is
in the public domain in the United States.  The issue is not wholly free
of doubt concerning whether or not the work is in the public domain
outside the United States.  Other materials in the public domain include:
any works published more than seventy-five years ago, and any work
published in the United States more than twenty-eight years ago, whose
copyright was not renewed.  In talking about the new technology and
putting material in a digital form to send all over the world, PETERS
cautioned, one must keep in mind that while the rights may not be an
issue in the United States, they may be in different parts of the world,
where most countries previously employed a copyright term of the life of
the author plus fifty years.

PETERS next reviewed the economics of copyright holding.  Simply,
economic rights are the rights to control the reproduction of a work in
any form.  They belong to the author, or in the case of a work made for
hire, the employer.  The second right, which is critical to conversion,
is the right to change a work.  The right to make new versions is perhaps
one of the most significant rights of authors, particularly in an
electronic world.  The third right is the right to publish the work and
the right to disseminate it, something that everyone who deals in an
electronic medium needs to know.  The basic rule is if a copy is sold,
all rights of distribution are extinguished with the sale of that copy.
The key is that it must be sold.  A number of companies overcome this
obstacle by leasing or renting their product.  These companies argue that
if the material is rented or leased and not sold, they control the uses
of a work.  The fourth right, and one very important in a digital world,
is a right of public performance, which means the right to show the work
sequentially.  For example, copyright owners control the showing of a
CD-ROM product in a public place such as a public library.  The reverse
side of public performance is something called the right of public
display.  Moral rights also exist, which at the federal level apply only
to very limited visual works of art, but in theory may apply under
contract and other principles.  Moral rights may include the right of an
author to have his or her name on a work, the right of attribution, and
the right to object to distortion or mutilation--the right of integrity.

The way copyright law is worded gives much latitude to activities such as
preservation; to use of material for scholarly and research purposes when
the user does not make multiple copies; and to the generation of
facsimile copies of unpublished works by libraries for themselves and
other libraries.  But the law does not allow anyone to become the
distributor of the product for the entire world.  In today's electronic
environment, publishers are extremely concerned that the entire world is
networked and can obtain the information desired from a single copy in a
single library.  Hence, if there is to be only one sale, which publishers
may choose to live with, they will obtain their money in other ways, for
example, from access and use.  Hence, the development of site licenses
and other kinds of agreements to cover what publishers believe they
should be compensated for.  Any solution that the United States takes
today has to consider the international arena.

Noting that the United States is a member of the Berne Convention and
subscribes to its provisions, PETERS described the permissions process.
She also defined compulsory licenses.  A compulsory license, of which the
United States has had a few, builds into the law the right to use a work
subject to certain terms and conditions.  In the international arena,
however, the ability to use compulsory licenses is extremely limited.
Thus, clearinghouses and other collectives comprise one option that has
succeeded in providing for use of a work.  Often overlooked when one
begins to use copyrighted material and put products together is how
expensive the permissions process and managing it is.  According to
PETERS, the price of copyright in a digital medium, whatever solution is
worked out, will include managing and assembling the database.  She
strongly recommended that publishers and librarians or people with
various backgrounds cooperate to work out administratively feasible
systems, in order to produce better results.

In the lengthy question-and-answer period that followed PETERS's
presentation, the following points emerged:

     * The Copyright Office maintains that anything mechanical and
     totally exhaustive probably is not protected.  In the event that
     what an individual did in developing potentially copyrightable
     material is not understood, the Copyright Office will ask about the
     creative choices the applicant chose to make or not to make.  As a
     practical matter, if one believes she or he has made enough of those
     choices, that person has a right to assert a copyright and someone
     else must assert that the work is not copyrightable.  The more
     mechanical, the more automatic, a thing is, the less likely it is to
     be copyrightable.

     * Nearly all photographs are deemed to be copyrightable, but no one
     worries about them much, because everyone is free to take the same
     image.  Thus, a photographic copyright represents what is called a
     "thin" copyright.  The photograph itself must be duplicated, in
     order for copyright to be violated.

     * The Copyright Office takes the position that X-rays are not
     copyrightable because they are mechanical.  It  can be argued
     whether or not image enhancement in scanning can be protected.  One
     must exercise care with material created with public funds and
     generally in the public domain.  An article written by a federal
     employee, if written as part of official duties, is not
     copyrightable.  However, control over a scientific article written
     by a National Institutes of Health grantee (i.e., someone who
     receives money from the U.S. government), depends on NIH policy.  If
     the government agency has no policy (and that policy can be
     contained in its regulations, the contract, or the grant), the
     author retains copyright.  If a provision of the contract, grant, or
     regulation states that there will be no copyright, then it does not
     exist.  When a work is created, copyright automatically comes into
     existence unless something exists that says it does not.

     * An enhanced electronic copy of a print copy of an older reference
     work in the public domain that does not contain copyrightable new
     material is a purely mechanical rendition of the original work, and
     is not copyrightable.

     * Usually, when a work enters the public domain, nothing can remove
     it.  For example, Congress recently passed into law the concept of
     automatic renewal, which means that copyright on any work published
     between l964 and l978 does not have to be renewed in order to
     receive a seventy-five-year term.  But any work not renewed before
     1964 is in the public domain.

     * Concerning whether or not the United States keeps track of when
     authors die, nothing was ever done, nor is anything being done at
     the moment by the Copyright Office.

     * Software that drives a mechanical process is itself copyrightable.
     If one changes platforms, the software itself has a copyright.  The
     World Intellectual Property Organization will hold a symposium 28
     March through 2 April l993, at Harvard University, on digital
     technology, and will study this entire issue.  If one purchases a
     computer software package, such as MacPaint, and creates something
     new, one receives protection only for that which has been added.

PETERS added that often in copyright matters, rough justice is the
outcome, for example, in collective licensing, ASCAP (i.e., American
Society of Composers, Authors, and Publishers), and BMI (i.e., Broadcast
Music, Inc.), where it may seem that the big guys receive more than their
due.  Of course, people ought not to copy a creative product without
paying for it; there should be some compensation.  But the truth of the
world, and it is not a great truth, is that the big guy gets played on
the radio more frequently than the little guy, who has to do much more
until he becomes a big guy.  That is true of every author, every
composer, everyone, and, unfortunately, is part of life.

Copyright always originates with the author, except in cases of works
made for hire.  (Most software falls into this category.)  When an author
sends his article to a journal, he has not relinquished copyright, though
he retains the right to relinquish it.  The author receives absolutely
everything.  The less prominent the author, the more leverage the
publisher will have in contract negotiations.  In order to transfer the
rights, the author must sign an agreement giving them away.

In an electronic society, it is important to be able to license a writer
and work out deals.  With regard to use of a work, it usually is much
easier when a publisher holds the rights.  In an electronic era, a real
problem arises when one is digitizing and making information available.
PETERS referred again to electronic licensing clearinghouses.  Copyright
ought to remain with the author, but as one moves forward globally in the
electronic arena, a middleman who can handle the various rights becomes
increasingly necessary.

The notion of copyright law is that it resides with the individual, but
in an on-line environment, where a work can be adapted and tinkered with
by many individuals, there is concern.  If changes are authorized and
there is no agreement to the contrary, the person who changes a work owns
the changes.  To put it another way, the person who acquires permission
to change a work technically will become the author and the owner, unless
some agreement to the contrary has been made.  It is typical for the
original publisher to try to control all of the versions and all of the
uses.  Copyright law always only sets up the boundaries.  Anything can be
changed by contract.

                                 ******

SESSION VII.  CONCLUSION

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
GENERAL DISCUSSION * Two questions for discussion * Different emphases in
the Workshop * Bringing the text and image partisans together *
Desiderata in planning the long-term development of something * Questions
surrounding the issue of electronic deposit * Discussion of electronic
deposit as an allusion to the issue of standards * Need for a directory
of preservation projects in digital form and for access to their
digitized files * CETH's catalogue of machine-readable texts in the
humanities * What constitutes a publication in the electronic world? *
Need for LC to deal with the concept of on-line publishing * LC's Network
Development Office  exploring the limits of MARC as a standard in terms
of handling electronic information * Magnitude of the problem and the
need for distributed responsibility in order to maintain and store
electronic information * Workshop participants to be viewed as a starting
point * Development of a network version of AM urged * A step toward AM's
construction of some sort of apparatus for network access * A delicate
and agonizing policy question for LC * Re the issue of electronic
deposit, LC urged to initiate a catalytic process in terms of distributed
responsibility * Suggestions for cooperative ventures * Commercial
publishers' fears * Strategic questions for getting the image and text
people to think through long-term cooperation * Clarification of the
driving force behind both the Perseus and the Cornell Xerox projects *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

In his role as moderator of the concluding session, GIFFORD raised two
questions he believed would benefit from discussion:  1) Are there enough
commonalities among those of us that have been here for two days so that
we can see courses of action that should be taken in the future?  And, if
so, what are they and who might take them?  2) Partly derivative from
that, but obviously very dangerous to LC as host, do you see a role for
the Library of Congress in all this?  Of course, the Library of Congress
holds a rather special status in a number of these matters, because it is
not perceived as a player with an economic stake in them, but are there
roles that LC can play that can help advance us toward where we are heading?

Describing himself as an uninformed observer of the technicalities of the
last two days, GIFFORD detected three different emphases in the Workshop:
1) people who are very deeply committed to text; 2) people who are almost
passionate about images; and 3) a few people who are very committed to
what happens to the networks.  In other words, the new networking
dimension, the accessibility of the processability, the portability of
all this across the networks.  How do we pull those three together?

Adding a question that reflected HOCKEY's comment that this was the
fourth workshop she had attended in the previous thirty days, FLEISCHHAUER
wondered to what extent this meeting had reinvented the wheel, or if it
had contributed anything in the way of bringing together a different group
of people from those who normally appear on the workshop circuit.

HOCKEY confessed to being struck at this meeting and the one the
Electronic Pierce Consortium organized the previous week that this was a
coming together of people working on texts and not images.  Attempting to
bring the two together is something we ought to be thinking about for the
future:  How one can think about working with image material to begin
with, but structuring it and digitizing it in such a way that at a later
stage it can be interpreted into text, and find a common way of building
text and images together so that they can be used jointly in the future,
with the network support to begin there because that is how people will
want to access it.

In planning the long-term development of something, which is what is
being done in electronic text, HOCKEY stressed the importance not only
of discussing the technical aspects of how one does it but particularly
of thinking about what the people who use the stuff will want to do.
But conversely, there are numerous things that people start to do with
electronic text or material that nobody ever thought of in the beginning.

LESK, in response to the question concerning the role of the Library of
Congress, remarked the often suggested desideratum of having electronic
deposit:  Since everything is now computer-typeset, an entire decade of
material that was machine-readable exists, but the publishers frequently
did not save it; has LC taken any action to have its copyright deposit
operation start collecting these machine-readable versions?  In the
absence of PETERS, GIFFORD replied that the question was being
actively considered but that that was only one dimension of the problem.
Another dimension is the whole question of the integrity of the original
electronic document.  It becomes highly important in science to prove
authorship.  How will that be done?

ERWAY explained that, under the old policy, to make a claim for a
copyright for works that were published in electronic form, including
software, one had to submit a paper copy of the first and last twenty
pages of code--something that represented the work but did not include
the entire work itself and had little value to anyone.  As a temporary
measure, LC has claimed the right to demand electronic versions of
electronic publications.  This measure entails a proactive role for the
Library to say that it wants a particular electronic version.  Publishers
then have perhaps a year to submit it.  But the real problem for LC is
what to do with all this material in all these different formats.  Will
the Library mount it?  How will it give people access to it?  How does LC
keep track of the appropriate computers, software, and media?  The situation
is so hard to control, ERWAY said, that it makes sense for each publishing
house to maintain its own archive.  But LC cannot enforce that either.

GIFFORD acknowledged LESK's suggestion that establishing a priority
offered the solution, albeit a fairly complicated one.  But who maintains
that register?, he asked.  GRABER noted that LC does attempt to collect a
Macintosh version and the IBM-compatible version of software.  It does
not collect other versions.  But while true for software, BYRUM observed,
this reply does not speak to materials, that is, all the materials that
were published that were on somebody's microcomputer or driver tapes
at a publishing office across the country.  LC does well to acquire
specific machine-readable products selectively that were intended to be
machine-readable.  Materials that were in machine-readable form at one time,
BYRUM said, would be beyond LC's capability at the moment, insofar as
attempting to acquire, organize, and preserve them are concerned--and
preservation would be the most important consideration.  In this
connection, GIFFORD reiterated the need to work out some sense of
distributive responsibility for a number of these issues, which
inevitably will require significant cooperation and discussion.
Nobody can do it all.

LESK suggested that some publishers may look with favor on LC beginning
to serve as a depository of tapes in an electronic manuscript standard.
Publishers may view this as a service that they did not have to perform
and they might send in tapes.  However, SPERBERG-McQUEEN countered,
although publishers have had equivalent services available to them for a
long time, the electronic text archive has never turned away or been
flooded with tapes and is forever sending feedback to the depositor.
Some publishers do send in tapes.

ANDRE viewed this discussion as an allusion to the issue of standards.
She recommended that the AAP standard and the TEI, which has already been
somewhat harmonized internationally and which also shares several
compatibilities with the AAP, be harmonized to ensure sufficient
compatibility in the software.  She drew the line at saying LC ought to
be the locus or forum for such harmonization.

Taking the group in a slightly different direction, but one where at
least in the near term LC might play a helpful role, LYNCH remarked the
plans of a number of projects to carry out preservation by creating
digital images that will end up in on-line or near-line storage at some
institution.   Presumably, LC will link this material somehow to its
on-line catalog in most cases.  Thus, it is in a digital form.  LYNCH had
the impression that many of these institutions would be willing to make
those files accessible to other people outside the institution, provided
that there is no copyright problem.  This desideratum will require
propagating the knowledge that those digitized files exist, so that they
can end up in other on-line catalogs.  Although uncertain about the
mechanism for achieving this result, LYNCH said that it warranted
scrutiny because it seemed to be connected to some of the basic issues of
cataloging and distribution of records.  It would be  foolish, given the
amount of work that all of us have to do and our meager resources, to
discover multiple institutions digitizing the same work.  Re microforms,
LYNCH said, we are in pretty good shape.

BATTIN called this a big problem and noted that the Cornell people (who
had already departed) were working on it.  At issue from the beginning
was to learn how to catalog that information into RLIN and then into
OCLC, so that it would be accessible.  That issue remains to be resolved.
LYNCH rejoined that putting it into OCLC or RLIN was helpful insofar as
somebody who is thinking of performing preservation activity on that work
could learn about it.  It is not necessarily helpful for institutions to
make that available.  BATTIN opined that the idea was that it not only be
for preservation purposes but for the convenience of people looking for
this material.  She endorsed LYNCH's dictum that duplication of this
effort was to be avoided by every means.

HOCKEY informed the Workshop about one major current activity of CETH,
namely a catalogue of machine-readable texts in the humanities.  Held on
RLIN at present, the catalogue has been concentrated on ASCII as opposed
to digitized images of text.  She is exploring ways to improve the
catalogue and make it more widely available, and welcomed suggestions
about these concerns.  CETH owns the records, which are not just
restricted to RLIN, and can distribute them however it wishes.

Taking up LESK's earlier question, BATTIN inquired whether LC, since it
is accepting electronic files and designing a mechanism for dealing with
that rather than putting books on shelves, would become responsible for
the National Copyright Depository of Electronic Materials.  Of course
that could not be accomplished overnight, but it would be something LC
could plan for.  GIFFORD acknowledged that much thought was being devoted
to that set of problems and returned the discussion to the issue raised
by LYNCH--whether or not putting the kind of records that both BATTIN and
HOCKEY have been talking about in RLIN is not a satisfactory solution.
It seemed to him that RLIN answered LYNCH's original point concerning
some kind of directory for these kinds of materials.  In a situation
where somebody is attempting to decide whether or not to scan this or
film that or to learn whether or not someone has already done so, LYNCH
suggested, RLIN is helpful, but it is not helpful in the case of a local,
on-line catalogue.  Further, one would like to have her or his system be
aware that that exists in digital form, so that one can present it to a
patron, even though one did not digitize it, if it is out of copyright.
The only way to make those linkages would be to perform a tremendous
amount of real-time look-up, which would be awkward at best, or
periodically to yank the whole file from RLIN and match it against one's
own stuff, which is a nuisance.

But where, ERWAY inquired, does one stop including things that are
available with Internet, for instance, in one's local catalogue?
It almost seems that that is LC's means to acquire access to them.
That represents LC's new form of library loan.  Perhaps LC's new on-line
catalogue is an amalgamation of all these catalogues on line.  LYNCH
conceded that perhaps that was true in the very long term, but was not
applicable to scanning in the short term.  In his view, the totals cited
by Yale, 10,000 books over perhaps a four-year period, and 1,000-1,500
books from Cornell, were not big numbers, while searching all over
creation for relatively rare occurrences will prove to be less efficient.
As GIFFORD wondered if this would not be a separable file on RLIN and
could be requested from them, BATTIN interjected that it was easily
accessible to an institution.  SEVERTSON pointed out that that file, cum
enhancements, was available with reference information on CD-ROM, which
makes it a little more available.

In HOCKEY's view, the real question facing the Workshop is what to put in
this catalogue, because that raises the question of what constitutes a
publication in the electronic world.  (WEIBEL interjected that Eric Joule
in OCLC's Office of Research is also wrestling with this particular
problem, while GIFFORD thought it sounded fairly generic.)  HOCKEY
contended that a majority of texts in the humanities are in the hands
of either a small number of large research institutions or individuals
and are not generally available for anyone else to access at all.
She wondered if these texts ought to be catalogued.

After argument proceeded back and forth for several minutes over why
cataloguing might be a necessary service, LEBRON suggested that this
issue involved the responsibility of a publisher.  The fact that someone
has created something electronically and keeps it under his or her
control does not constitute publication.  Publication implies
dissemination.  While it would be important for a scholar to let other
people know that this creation exists, in many respects this is no
different from an unpublished manuscript.  That is what is being accessed
in there, except that now one is not looking at it in the hard-copy but
in the electronic environment.

LEBRON expressed puzzlement at the variety of ways electronic publishing
has been viewed.  Much of what has been discussed throughout these two
days has concerned CD-ROM publishing, whereas in the on-line environment
that she confronts, the constraints and challenges are very different.
Sooner or later LC will have to deal with the concept of on-line
publishing.  Taking up the comment ERWAY made earlier about storing
copies, LEBRON gave her own journal as an example.  How would she deposit
OJCCT for copyright?, she asked, because the journal will exist in the
mainframe at OCLC and people will be able to access it.  Here the
situation is different, ownership versus access, and is something that
arises with publication in the on-line environment, faster than is
sometimes realized.  Lacking clear answers to all of these questions
herself, LEBRON did not anticipate that LC would be able to take a role
in helping to define some of them for quite a while.

GREENFIELD observed that LC's Network Development Office is attempting,
among other things, to explore the limits of MARC as a standard in terms
of handling electronic information.  GREENFIELD also noted that Rebecca
GUENTHER from that office gave a paper to the American Society for
Information Science (ASIS) summarizing several of the discussion papers
that were coming out of the Network Development Office.  GREENFIELD said
he understood that that office had a list-server soliciting just the kind
of feedback received today concerning the difficulties of identifying and
cataloguing electronic information.  GREENFIELD hoped that everybody
would be aware of that and somehow contribute to that conversation.

Noting two of LC's roles, first, to act as a repository of record for
material that is copyrighted in this country, and second, to make
materials it holds available in some limited form to a clientele that
goes beyond Congress, BESSER suggested that it was incumbent on LC to
extend those responsibilities to all the things being published in
electronic form.  This would mean eventually accepting electronic
formats.  LC could require that at some point they be in a certain
limited set of formats, and then develop mechanisms for allowing people
to access those in the same way that other things are accessed.  This
does not imply that they are on the network and available to everyone.
LC does that with most of its bibliographic records, BESSER said, which
end up migrating to the utility (e.g., OCLC) or somewhere else.  But just
as most of LC's books are available in some form through interlibrary
loan or some other mechanism, so in the same way electronic formats ought
to be available to others in some format, though with some copyright
considerations.  BESSER was not suggesting that these mechanisms be
established tomorrow, only that they seemed to fall within LC's purview,
and that there should be long-range plans to establish them.

Acknowledging that those from LC in the room agreed with BESSER
concerning the need to confront difficult questions, GIFFORD underscored
the magnitude of the problem of what to keep and what to select.  GIFFORD
noted that LC currently receives some 31,000 items per day, not counting
electronic materials, and argued for much more distributed responsibility
in order to maintain and store electronic information.

BESSER responded that the assembled group could be viewed as a starting
point, whose initial operating premise could be helping to move in this
direction and defining how LC could do so, for example, in areas of
standardization or distribution of responsibility.

FLEISCHHAUER added that AM was fully engaged, wrestling with some of the
questions that pertain to the conversion of older historical materials,
which would be one thing that the Library of Congress might do.  Several
points mentioned by BESSER and several others on this question have a
much greater impact on those who are concerned with cataloguing and the
networking of bibliographic information, as well as preservation itself.

Speaking directly to AM, which he considered was a largely uncopyrighted
database, LYNCH urged development of a network version of AM, or
consideration of making the data in it available to people interested in
doing network multimedia.  On account of the current great shortage of
digital data that is both appealing and unencumbered by complex rights
problems, this course of action could have a significant effect on making
network multimedia a reality.

In this connection, FLEISCHHAUER reported on a fragmentary prototype in
LC's Office of Information Technology Services that attempts to associate
digital images of photographs with cataloguing information in ways that
work within a local area network--a step, so to say, toward AM's
construction of some sort of apparatus for access.  Further, AM has
attempted to use standard data forms in order to help make that
distinction between the access tools and the underlying data, and thus
believes that the database is networkable.

A delicate and agonizing policy question for LC, however, which comes
back to resources and unfortunately has an impact on this, is to find
some appropriate, honorable, and legal cost-recovery possibilities.  A
certain skittishness concerning cost-recovery has made people unsure
exactly what to do.  AM would be highly receptive to discussing further
LYNCH's offer to test or demonstrate its database in a network
environment, FLEISCHHAUER said.

Returning the discussion to what she viewed as the vital issue of
electronic deposit, BATTIN recommended that LC initiate a catalytic
process in terms of distributed responsibility, that is, bring together
the distributed organizations and set up a study group to look at all
these issues and see where we as a nation should move.  The broader
issues of how we deal with the management of electronic information will
not disappear, but only grow worse.

LESK took up this theme and suggested that LC attempt to persuade one
major library in each state to deal with its state equivalent publisher,
which might produce a cooperative project that would be equitably
distributed around the country, and one in which LC would be dealing with
a minimal number of publishers and minimal copyright problems.

GRABER remarked the recent development in the scientific community of a
willingness to use SGML and either deposit or interchange on a fairly
standardized format.  He wondered if a similar movement was taking place
in the humanities.  Although the National Library of Medicine found only
a few publishers to cooperate in a like venture two or three years ago, a
new effort might generate a much larger number willing to cooperate.

KIMBALL recounted his unit's (Machine-Readable Collections Reading Room)
troubles with the commercial publishers of electronic media in acquiring
materials for LC's collections, in particular the publishers' fear that
they would not be able to cover their costs and would lose control of
their products, that LC would give them away or sell them and make
profits from them.  He doubted that the publishing industry was prepared
to move into this area at the moment, given its resistance to allowing LC
to use its machine-readable materials as the Library would like.

The copyright law now addresses compact disk as a medium, and LC can
request one copy of that, or two copies if it is the only version, and
can request copies of software, but that fails to address magazines or
books or anything like that which is in machine-readable form.

GIFFORD acknowledged the thorny nature of this issue, which he illustrated
with the example of the cumbersome process involved in putting a copy of a
scientific database on a LAN in LC's science reading room.  He also
acknowledged that LC needs help and could enlist the energies and talents
of Workshop participants in thinking through a number of these problems.

GIFFORD returned the discussion to getting the image and text people to
think through together where they want to go in the long term.  MYLONAS
conceded that her experience at the Pierce Symposium the previous week at
Georgetown University and this week at LC had forced her to reevaluate
her perspective on the usefulness of text as images.  MYLONAS framed the
issues in a series of questions:  How do we acquire machine-readable
text?  Do we take pictures of it and perform OCR on it later?  Is it
important to obtain very high-quality images and text, etc.?
FLEISCHHAUER agreed with MYLONAS's framing of strategic questions, adding
that a large institution such as LC probably has to do all of those
things at different times.  Thus, the trick is to exercise judgment.  The
Workshop had added to his and AM's considerations in making those
judgments.  Concerning future meetings or discussions, MYLONAS suggested
that screening priorities would be helpful.

WEIBEL opined that the diversity reflected in this group was a sign both
of the health and of the immaturity of the field, and more time would
have to pass before we convince one another concerning standards.

An exchange between MYLONAS and BATTIN clarified the point that the
driving force behind both the Perseus and the Cornell Xerox projects was
the preservation of knowledge for the future, not simply for particular
research use.  In the case of Perseus, MYLONAS said, the assumption was
that the texts would not be entered again into electronically readable
form.  SPERBERG-McQUEEN added that a scanned image would not serve as an
archival copy for purposes of preservation in the case of, say, the Bill
of Rights, in the sense that the scanned images are effectively the
archival copies for the Cornell mathematics books.


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                          Appendix I:  PROGRAM



                                WORKSHOP
                                   ON
                               ELECTRONIC
                                  TEXTS



                             9-10 June 1992

                           Library of Congress
                            Washington, D.C.



    Supported by a Grant from the David and Lucile Packard Foundation


Tuesday, 9 June 1992

NATIONAL DEMONSTRATION LAB, ATRIUM, LIBRARY MADISON

8:30 AM   Coffee and Danish, registration

9:00 AM   Welcome

          Prosser Gifford, Director for Scholarly Programs, and Carl
             Fleischhauer, Coordinator, American Memory, Library of
             Congress

9:l5 AM   Session I.  Content in a New Form:  Who Will Use It and What
          Will They Do?

          Broad description of the range of electronic information.
          Characterization of who uses it and how it is or may be used.
          In addition to a look at scholarly uses, this session will
          include a presentation on use by students (K-12 and college)
          and the general public.

          Moderator:  James Daly
          Avra Michelson, Archival Research and Evaluation Staff,
             National Archives and Records Administration (Overview)
          Susan H. Veccia, Team Leader, American Memory, User Evaluation,
             and
          Joanne Freeman, Associate Coordinator, American Memory, Library
             of Congress (Beyond the scholar)

10:30-
11:00 AM  Break

11:00 AM  Session II.  Show and Tell.

          Each presentation to consist of a fifteen-minute
          statement/show; group discussion will follow lunch.

          Moderator:  Jacqueline Hess, Director, National Demonstration
             Lab

            1.  A classics project, stressing texts and text retrieval
                more than multimedia:  Perseus Project, Harvard
                University
                Elli Mylonas, Managing Editor

            2.  Other humanities projects employing the emerging norms of
                the Text Encoding Initiative (TEI):  Chadwyck-Healey's
                The English Poetry Full Text Database and/or Patrologia
                Latina Database
                Eric M. Calaluca, Vice President, Chadwyck-Healey, Inc.

            3.  American Memory
                Carl Fleischhauer, Coordinator, and
                Ricky Erway, Associate Coordinator, Library of Congress

            4.  Founding Fathers example from Packard Humanities
                Institute:  The Papers of George Washington, University
                of Virginia
                Dorothy Twohig, Managing Editor, and/or
                David Woodley Packard

            5.  An electronic medical journal offering graphics and
                full-text searchability:  The Online Journal of Current
                Clinical Trials, American Association for the Advancement
                of Science
                Maria L. Lebron, Managing Editor

            6.  A project that offers facsimile images of pages but omits
                searchable text:  Cornell math books
                Lynne K. Personius, Assistant Director, Cornell
                   Information Technologies for Scholarly Information
                   Sources, Cornell University

12:30 PM  Lunch  (Dining Room A, Library Madison 620.  Exhibits
          available.)

1:30 PM   Session II.  Show and Tell (Cont'd.).

3:00-
3:30 PM   Break

3:30-
5:30 PM   Session III.  Distribution, Networks, and Networking:  Options
          for Dissemination.

          Published disks:  University presses and public-sector
             publishers, private-sector publishers
          Computer networks

          Moderator:  Robert G. Zich, Special Assistant to the AssociatV
             ORYIZIRZM ULI HKVXRZO KILQVXGH, ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH
          XORUULIW Z. OBMXS, WRIVXGLI, ORYIZIB ZFGLNZGRLM, FMREVIHRGB LU
             XZORULIMRZ
          SLDZIW YVHHVI, HXSLLO LU ORYIZIB ZMW RMULINZGRLM HXRVMXV,
             FMREVIHRGB LU KRGGHYFITS
          ILMZOW O. OZIHVM, ZHHLXRZGV WRIVXGLI LU ORYIZIRVH ULI
             RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTB, FMREVIHRGB LU NZIBOZMW ZG XLOOVTV
             KZIP
          VWDRM Y. YILDMIRTT, VCVXFGREV WRIVXGLI, NVNVC IVHVZIXS
             RMHGRGFGV

6:30 KN   IVXVKGRLM  (NLMGKVORVI ILLN, ORYIZIB NZWRHLM 619.)

                                 ******

DVWMVHWZB, 10 QFMV 1992

WRMRMT ILLN Z, ORYIZIB NZWRHLM 620

8:30 ZN   XLUUVV ZMW WZMRHS

9:00 ZN   HVHHRLM RE.  RNZTV XZKGFIV, GVCG XZKGFIV, LEVIERVD LU GVCG ZMW
          RNZTV HGLIZTV ULINZGH.

          NLWVIZGLI:  DROORZN O. SLLGLM, ERXV KIVHRWVMG LU LKVIZGRLMH,
             R-MVG

          Z) KIRMXRKZO NVGSLWH ULI RNZTV XZKGFIV LU GVCG:
             WRIVXG HXZMMRMT
             FHV LU NRXILULIN

          ZMMV I. PVMMVB, ZHHRHGZMG WRIVXGLI, WVKZIGNVMG LU KIVHVIEZGRLM
             ZMW XLMHVIEZGRLM, XLIMVOO FMREVIHRGB
          KZNVOZ J.Q. ZMWIV, ZHHLXRZGV WRIVXGLI, ZFGLNZGRLM, ZMW
          QFWRGS Z. ARWZI, XLLIWRMZGLI, MZGRLMZO ZTIRXFOGFIZO GVCG
             WRTRGRARMT KILTIZN (MZGWK), MZGRLMZO ZTIRXFOGFIZO ORYIZIB
             (MZO)
          WLMZOW Q. DZGVIH, SVZW, HBHGVNH LUURXV, BZOV FMREVIHRGB ORYIZIB

          Y) HKVXRZO KILYOVNH:
             YLFMW ELOFNVH
             XLMHVIEZGRLM
             IVKILWFXRMT KIRMGVW SZOUGLMVH

          XZIO UOVRHXSSZFVI, XLLIWRMZGLI, ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB, ORYIZIB LU
             XLMTIVHH
          TVLITV GSLNZ, XSRVU, XLNNFMRXZGRLMH VMTRMVVIRMT YIZMXS,
             MZGRLMZO ORYIZIB LU NVWRXRMV (MON)

10:30-
11:00 ZN  YIVZP

11:00 ZN  HVHHRLM RE.  RNZTV XZKGFIV, GVCG XZKGFIV, LEVIERVD LU GVCG ZMW
          RNZTV HGLIZTV ULINZGH (XLMG'W.).

          X) RNZTV HGZMWZIWH ZMW RNKORXZGRLMH ULI KIVHVIEZGRLM

          QVZM YZILMZH, HVMRLI NZMZTVI, WVKZIGNVMG LU HGZMWZIWH ZMW
             GVXSMLOLTB, ZHHLXRZGRLM ULI RMULINZGRLM ZMW RNZTV NZMZTVNVMG
             (ZRRN)
          KZGIRXRZ YZGGRM, KIVHRWVMG, GSV XLNNRHHRLM LM KIVHVIEZGRLM ZMW
             ZXXVHH (XKZ)

          W) GVCG XLMEVIHRLM:
             LXI EH. IVPVBRMT
             HGZMWZIWH LU ZXXFIZXB ZMW FHV LU RNKVIUVXG GVCGH
             HVIERXV YFIVZFH

          HGFZIG DVRYVO, HVMRLI IVHVZIXS HKVXRZORHG, LMORMV XLNKFGVI
             ORYIZIB XVMGVI, RMX. (LXOX)
          NRXSZVO OVHP, VCVXFGREV WRIVXGLI, XLNKFGVI HXRVMXV IVHVZIXS,
             YVOOXLIV
          IRXPB VIDZB, ZHHLXRZGV XLLIWRMZGLI, ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB, ORYIZIB LU
             XLMTIVHH
          KZNVOZ J.Q. ZMWIV, ZHHLXRZGV WRIVXGLI, ZFGLNZGRLM, ZMW
          QFWRGS Z. ARWZI, XLLIWRMZGLI, MZGRLMZO ZTIRXFOGFIZO GVCG
             WRTRGRARMT KILTIZN (MZGWK), MZGRLMZO ZTIRXFOGFIZO ORYIZIB
             (MZO)

12:30-
1:30 KN   OFMXS

1:30 KN   HVHHRLM E.  ZKKILZXSVH GL KIVKZIRMT VOVXGILMRX GVCGH.

          WRHXFHHRLM LU ZKKILZXSVH GL HGIFXGFIRMT GVCG ULI GSV XLNKFGVI;
          KILH ZMW XLMH LU GVCG XLWRMT, WVHXIRKGRLM LU NVGSLWH RM
          KIZXGRXV, ZMW XLNKZIRHLM LU GVCG-XLWRMT NVGSLWH.

          NLWVIZGLI:  HFHZM SLXPVB, WRIVXGLI, XVMGVI ULI VOVXGILMRX GVCGH
             RM GSV SFNZMRGRVH (XVGS), IFGTVIH ZMW KIRMXVGLM FMREVIHRGRVH
          WZERW DLLWOVB KZXPZIW
          X.N. HKVIYVIT-NXJFVVM, VWRGLI, GVCG VMXLWRMT RMRGRZGREV (GVR),
             FMREVIHRGB LU ROORMLRH-XSRXZTL
          VIRX N. XZOZOFXZ, ERXV KIVHRWVMG, XSZWDBXP-SVZOVB, RMX.

3:30-
4:00 KN   YIVZP

4:00 KN   HVHHRLM ER.  XLKBIRTSG RHHFVH.

          NZIBYVGS KVGVIH, KLORXB KOZMMRMT ZWERHVI GL GSV IVTRHGVI LU
             XLKBIRTSGH, ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH

5:00 KN   HVHHRLM ERR. XLMXOFHRLM.

          TVMVIZO WRHXFHHRLM.
          DSZG GLKRXH DVIV LNRGGVW LI TREVM HSLIG HSIRUG GSZG ZMBLMV
             DLFOW ORPV GL GZOP ZYLFG MLD?
          RH GSVIV Z "TILFK" SVIV?  DSZG HSLFOW GSV TILFK WL MVCG, RU
             ZMBGSRMT?  DSZG HSLFOW GSV ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH WL MVCG, RU
             ZMBGSRMT?
          NLWVIZGLI:  KILHHVI TRUULIW, WRIVXGLI ULI HXSLOZIOB KILTIZNH,
             ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH

6:00 KN   ZWQLFIM


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                         ZKKVMWRC RR:  ZYHGIZXGH


HVHHRLM R

ZEIZ NRXSVOHLM           ULIVXZHGRMT GSV FHV LU VOVXGILMRX GVCGH YB
                         HLXRZO HXRVMXVH ZMW SFNZMRGRVH HXSLOZIH

GSRH KIVHVMGZGRLM VCKOLIVH GSV DZBH RM DSRXS VOVXGILMRX GVCGH ZIV ORPVOB
GL YV FHVW YB GSV MLM-HXRVMGRURX HXSLOZIOB XLNNFMRGB.  NZMB LU GSV
IVNZIPH ZIV WIZDM UILN Z IVKLIG GSV HKVZPVI XLZFGSLIVW DRGS QVUU
ILGSVMYVIT, Z XLNKFGVI HXRVMGRHG ZG GSV IZMW XLIKLIZGRLM.

GSV HKVZPVI ZHHVHHVH 1) XFIIVMG HXSLOZIOB FHV LU RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTB
ZMW 2) GSV PVB GIVMWH RM RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTB NLHG IVOVEZMG GL GSV
IVHVZIXS KILXVHH, RM LIWVI GL KIVWRXG SLD HLXRZO HXRVMXVH ZMW SFNZMRGRVH
HXSLOZIH ZIV ZKG GL FHV VOVXGILMRX GVCGH.  RM RMGILWFXRMT GSV GLKRX,
XFIIVMG FHV LU VOVXGILMRX GVCGH RH VCKOLIVW YILZWOB DRGSRM GSV XLMGVCG LU
HXSLOZIOB XLNNFMRXZGRLM.  UILN GSV KVIHKVXGREV LU HXSLOZIOB
XLNNFMRXZGRLM, GSV DLIP LU SFNZMRGRVH ZMW HLXRZO HXRVMXVH HXSLOZIH
RMELOEVH UREV KILXVHHVH:  1) RWVMGRURXZGRLM LU HLFIXVH, 2) XLNNFMRXZGRLM
DRGS XLOOVZTFVH, 3) RMGVIKIVGZGRLM ZMW ZMZOBHRH LU WZGZ, 4) WRHHVNRMZGRLM
LU IVHVZIXS URMWRMTH, ZMW 5) XFIIRXFOFN WVEVOLKNVMG ZMW RMHGIFXGRLM.  GSV
VCGVMG GL DSRXS XLNKFGZGRLM XFIIVMGOB KVINVZGVH ZHKVXGH LU HXSLOZIOB
XLNNFMRXZGRLM IVKIVHVMGH Z ERZYOV RMWRXZGLI LU GSV KILHKVXGH ULI
VOVXGILMRX GVCGH.

GSV WRHXFHHRLM LU XFIIVMG KIZXGRXV RH YZOZMXVW YB ZM ZMZOBHRH LU PVB
ZYLFG XLNNRGGRMT GL KILWFXGRLM HBHGVNH ZG GSRH GRNV.

GSRH HRGFZGRLM DROO XSZMTV, OBMXS HZRW.  SV WRUUVIVMGRZGVW XW-ILN UILN
GSV KIZXGRXVH GSZG SZEV YVVM ULOOLDVW FK GL MLD RM WRHGIRYFGRMT WZGZ LM
XW-ILN.  ULI OBMXS GSV KILYOVN DRGS XW-ILN RH MLG RGH KLIGZYRORGB LI RGH
HOLDMVHH YFG GSV GDL-VWTVW HDLIW LU SZERMT GSV IVGIRVEZO ZKKORXZGRLM ZMW
GSV FHVI RMGVIUZXV RMVCGIRXZYOB YLFMW FK DRGS GSV WZGZ, DSRXS RH GSV
GBKRXZO XW-ILN KFYORXZGRLM NLWVO.  RG RH MLG Z XZHV LU KFYORHSRMT WZGZ
YFG LU WRHGIRYFGRMT Z GBKRXZOOB HGZMW-ZOLMV, GBKRXZOOB XOLHVW HBHGVN,
ZOO--HLUGDZIV, FHVI RMGVIUZXV, ZMW WZGZ--LM Z ORGGOV WRHP.  SVMXV, ZOO
GSV YVGDVVM-WRHP MZERTZGRLMZO RHHFVH ZH DVOO ZH GSV RNKLHHRYRORGB RM NLHG
XZHVH LU RMGVTIZGRMT WZGZ LM LMV WRHP DRGS GSZG LM ZMLGSVI.  NLHG XW-ILN
IVGIRVEZO HLUGDZIV WLVH MLG MVGDLIP EVIB TIZXVUFOOB ZG KIVHVMG.  SLDVEVI,
RM GSV KIVHVMG DLIOW LU RNNZGFIV HGZMWZIWH ZMW OZXP LU FMWVIHGZMWRMT LU
DSZG MVGDLIP RMULINZGRLM RH LI DSZG GSV TILFMW IFOVH ZIV ULI XIVZGRMT LI
FHRMT RG, KFYORHSRMT RMULINZGRLM LM Z XW-ILN WLVH ZWW EZOFV RM Z EVIB
IVZO HVMHV.

OBMXS WIVD Z XLMGIZHG YVGDVVM XW-ILN ZMW MVGDLIP KIRXRMT ZMW RM WLRMT HL
SRTSORTSGVW HLNVGSRMT YRAZIIV RM RMULINZGRLM KIRXRMT.  Z OZITV
RMHGRGFGRLM HFXS ZH GSV FMREVIHRGB LU XZORULIMRZ SZH EVMWLIH DSL DROO
LUUVI GL HVOO RMULINZGRLM LM XW-ILN ULI Z KIRXV KVI BVZI RM ULFI WRTRGH,
YFG ULI GSV HZNV WZGZ (V.T., ZM ZYHGIZXGRMT ZMW RMWVCRMT WZGZYZHV) LM
NZTMVGRX GZKV, IVTZIWOVHH LU SLD NZMB KVLKOV NZB FHV RG XLMXFIIVMGOB,
DROO JFLGV Z KIRXV RM HRC WRTRGH.

DSZG RH KZXPZTVW DRGS GSV XW-ILN RM LMV HVMHV ZWWH EZOFV--Z XLNKOVGV
ZXXVHH HBHGVN, MLG QFHG IZD, FMIVURMVW RMULINZGRLM--ZOGSLFTS RG RH MLG
TVMVIZOOB KVIXVREVW GSZG DZB.  GSRH RH YVXZFHV GSV ZXXVHH HLUGDZIV,
ZOGSLFTS RG ZWWH EZOFV, RH ERVDVW YB HLNV KVLKOV, KZIGRXFOZIOB RM GSV
FMREVIHRGB VMERILMNVMG DSVIV GSVIV RH Z EVIB SVZEB XLNNRGNVMG GL
MVGDLIPRMT, ZH YVRMT WVEVOLKVW RM GSV DILMT WRIVXGRLM.

TREVM GSZG XLMGVCG, OBMXS WVHXIRYVW GSV VCZNKOVH WVNLMHGIZGVW ZH Z HVG LU
RMHFOZI RMULINZGRLM TVNH--KVIHVFH, ULI VCZNKOV, LUUVIH MRXVOB ORMPVW
RMULINZGRLM, YFG DLFOW YV EVIB WRUURXFOG GL RMGVTIZGV DRGS LGSVI
WZGZYZHVH, GSZG RH, GL ORMP GLTVGSVI HVZNOVHHOB DRGS LGSVI HLFIXV UROVH
UILN LGSVI HLFIXVH.  RG IVHVNYOVH ZM RHOZMW, ZMW RM GSRH IVHKVXG RH
HRNROZI GL MFNVILFH HGZMW-ZOLMV KILQVXGH GSZG ZIV YZHVW LM ERWVLWRHXH,
GSZG RH, LM GSV HRMTOV-DLIPHGZGRLM XLMXVKG.

ZH HXSLOZIHSRK VELOEVH RM Z MVGDLIP VMERILMNVMG, GSV KZIZNLFMG MVVW DROO
YV GL ORMP WZGZYZHVH.  DV NFHG ORMP KVIHLMZO WZGZYZHVH GL KFYORX
WZGZYZHVH, GL TILFK WZGZYZHVH, RM UZRIOB HVZNOVHH DZBH--DSRXS RH
VCGIVNVOB WRUURXFOG RM GSV VMERILMNVMGH FMWVI WRHXFHHRLM DRGS XLKRVH LU
WZGZYZHVH KILORUVIZGRMT ZOO LEVI GSV KOZXV.

GSV MLGRLM LU OZBVIRMT ZOHL HGIFXP OBMXS ZH OFIPRMT RM HVEVIZO LU GSV
KILQVXGH WVNLMHGIZGVW.  HVEVIZO WZGZYZHVH RM Z HVMHV XLMHGRGFGV
RMULINZGRLM ZIXSREVH DRGSLFG Z HRTMRURXZMG ZNLFMG LU MZERTZGRLM YFROG RM.
VWFXZGLIH, XIRGRXH, ZMW LGSVIH DROO DZMG Z OZBVIVW HGIFXGFIV--LMV GSZG
WVURMVH LI ORMPH KZGSH GSILFTS GSV OZBVIH GL ZOOLD FHVIH GL IVZXS
HKVXRURX KLRMGH.  RM OBMXS'H ERVD, OZBVIRMT DROO YVXLNV RMXIVZHRMTOB
MVXVHHZIB, ZMW MLG QFHG DRGSRM Z HRMTOV IVHLFIXV YFG ZXILHH IVHLFIXVH
(V.T., GIZXRMT NBGSLOLTB ZMW XFOGFIZO GSVNVH ZXILHH HVEVIZO XOZHHRXH
WZGZYZHVH ZH DVOO ZH Z WZGZYZHV LU IVMZRHHZMXV XFOGFIV).  GSRH ZYRORGB GL
LITZMRAV IVHLFIXVH, GL YFROW GSRMTH LFG LU NFOGRKOV LGSVI GSRMTH LM GSV
MVGDLIP LI HVOVXG KRVXVH LU RG, IVKIVHVMGVW ULI OBMXS LMV LU GSV PVB
ZHKVXGH LU MVGDLIP RMULINZGRLM.

XLMGVMWRMT GSZG RMULINZGRLM IVFHV XLMHGRGFGVW ZMLGSVI HRTMRURXZMG RHHFV,
OBMXS XLNNVMWVW GL GSV ZFWRVMXV'H ZGGVMGRLM KILQVXG MVVWH (R.V., MZGRLMZO
VMTRMVVIRMT VWFXZGRLM WVOREVIB HBHGVN).  GSRH KILQVXG'H LYQVXGREV RH GL
KILWFXV Z WZGZYZHV LU VMTRMVVIRMT XLFIHVDZIV ZH DVOO ZH GSV XLNKLMVMGH
GSZG XZM YV FHVW GL WVEVOLK MVD XLFIHVDZIV.  RM Z MFNYVI LU GSV VCRHGRMT
ZKKORXZGRLMH, OBMXS HZRW, GSV RHHFV LU IVFHV (SLD NFXS LMV XZM GZPV ZKZIG
ZMW IVFHV RM LGSVI ZKKORXZGRLMH) DZH MLG YVRMT DVOO XLMHRWVIVW.  SV ZOHL
IZRHVW GSV RHHFV LU ZXGREV EVIHFH KZHHREV FHV, LMV ZHKVXG LU DSRXS  RH
SLD NFXS RMULINZGRLM DROO YV NZMRKFOZGVW OLXZOOB YB FHVIH.  NLHG KVLKOV,
SV ZITFVW, NZB WL Z ORGGOV YILDHRMT ZMW GSVM DROO DRHS GL KIRMG.  OBMXS
DZH FMXVIGZRM SLD GSVHV IVHLFIXVH DLFOW YV FHVW YB GSV EZHG NZQLIRGB LU
FHVIH RM GSV MVGDLIP VMERILMNVMG.

OBMXS MVCG HZRW Z UVD DLIWH ZYLFG C-DRMWLDH ZH Z DZB LU WRUUVIVMGRZGRMT
YVGDVVM MVGDLIP ZXXVHH ZMW MVGDLIPVW RMULINZGRLM.  Z MFNYVI LU GSV
ZKKORXZGRLMH WVNLMHGIZGVW ZG GSV DLIPHSLK XLFOW YV IVDIRGGVM GL FHV C
ZXILHH GSV MVGDLIP, HL GSZG LMV XLFOW IFM GSVN UILN ZMB C-XZKZYOV WVERXV-
-Z DLIPHGZGRLM, ZM C GVINRMZO--ZMW GIZMHZXG DRGS Z WZGZYZHV ZXILHH GSV
MVGDLIP.  ZOGSLFTS GSRH LKVMH FK ZXXVHH Z ORGGOV, ZHHFNRMT LMV SZH VMLFTS
MVGDLIP GL SZMWOV RG, RG WLVH MLG KILERWV ZM RMGVIUZXV GL WVEVOLK Z
KILTIZN GSZG XLMEVMRVMGOB RMGVTIZGVH RMULINZGRLM UILN NFOGRKOV WZGZYZHVH.
C RH Z ERVDRMT GVXSMLOLTB GSZG SZH ORNRGH.  RM Z IVZO HVMHV, RG RH QFHG Z
TIZKSRXZO EVIHRLM LU IVNLGV OLT-RM ZXILHH GSV MVGDLIP.  C-GBKV ZKKORXZGRLMH
IVKIVHVMG LMOB LMV HGVK RM GSV KILTIVHHRLM GLDZIWH IVZO ZXXVHH.

OBMXS MVCG WRHXFHHVW YZIIRVIH GL GSV WRHGIRYFGRLM LU MVGDLIPVW NFOGRNVWRZ
RMULINZGRLM.  GSV SVZIG LU GSV KILYOVN RH Z OZXP LU HGZMWZIWH GL KILERWV
GSV ZYRORGB ULI XLNKFGVIH GL GZOP GL VZXS LGSVI, IVGIRVEV RMULINZGRLM,
ZMW HSFUUOV RG ZILFMW UZRIOB XZHFZOOB.  ZG GSV NLNVMG, ORGGOV KILTIVHH RH
YVRMT NZWV LM HGZMWZIWH ULI MVGDLIPVW RMULINZGRLM; ULI VCZNKOV, KIVHVMG
HGZMWZIWH WL MLG XLEVI RNZTVH, WRTRGZO ELRXV, ZMW WRTRGZO ERWVL.  Z
FHVUFO GLLO PRG LU VCXSZMTV ULINZGH ULI YZHRX GVCGH RH LMOB MLD YVRMT
ZHHVNYOVW.  GSV HBMXSILMRAZGRLM LU XLMGVMG HGIVZNH (R.V., HBMXSILMRARMT Z
ELRXV GIZXP GL Z ERWVL GIZXP, VHGZYORHSRMT GVNKLIZO IVOZGRLMH YVGDVVM
WRUUVIVMG XLNKLMVMGH RM Z NFOGRNVWRZ LYQVXG) XLMHGRGFGVH ZMLGSVI RHHFV
ULI MVGDLIPVW NFOGRNVWRZ GSZG RH QFHG YVTRMMRMT GL IVXVREV ZGGVMGRLM.

FMWVIOBRMT MVGDLIP KILGLXLOH ZOHL MVVW HLNV DLIP; TLLW, IVZO-GRNV
WVOREVIB KILGLXLOH LM GSV RMGVIMVG WL MLG BVG VCRHG.  RM OBMXS'H ERVD,
SRTSOB RNKLIGZMG RM GSRH XLMGVCG RH GSV MLGRLM LU MVGDLIPVW WRTRGZO
LYQVXG RWH, GSV ZYRORGB LU LMV LYQVXG LM GSV MVGDLIP GL KLRMG GL ZMLGSVI
LYQVXG (LI XLNKLMVMG GSVIVLU) LM GSV MVGDLIP.  HVIRLFH YZMWDRWGS RHHFVH
ZOHL VCRHG.  OBMXS DZH FMXVIGZRM RU YROORLM-YRG-KVI-HVXLMW MVGDLIPH DLFOW
KILEV HFUURXRVMG RU MFNVILFH KVLKOV IZM ERWVL RM KZIZOOVO.

OBMXS XLMXOFWVW YB LUUVIRMT ZM RHHFV ULI WZGZYZHV XIVZGLIH GL XLMHRWVI,
ZH DVOO ZH HVEVIZO XLNNVMGH ZYLFG DSZG NRTSG XLMHGRGFGV TLLW GIRZO
NFOGRNVWRZ VCKVIRNVMGH.  RM Z MVGDLIPVW RMULINZGRLM DLIOW GSV WZGZYZHV
YFROWVI LI HVIERXV YFROWVI (KFYORHSVI) WLVH MLG VCVIXRHV GSV HZNV
VCGVMHREV XLMGILO LEVI GSV RMGVTIRGB LU GSV KIVHVMGZGRLM; HGIZMTV
KILTIZNH "NFMTV" DRGS LMV'H WZGZ YVULIV GSV FHVI HVVH RG.  HVIRLFH
GSLFTSG NFHG YV TREVM GL DSZG TFZIZMGVVH RMGVTIRGB LU KIVHVMGZGRLM.  KZIG
LU GSZG RH IVOZGVW GL DSVIV LMV WIZDH GSV YLFMWZIRVH ZILFMW Z MVGDLIPVW
RMULINZGRLM HVIERXV.  GSRH JFVHGRLM LU KIVHVMGZGRLM RMGVTIRGB RM
XORVMG-HVIEVI XLNKFGRMT SZH MLG YVVM HGIVHHVW VMLFTS RM GSV ZXZWVNRX
DLIOW, OBMXS ZITFVW, GSLFTS XLNNVIXRZO HVIERXV KILERWVIH WVZO DRGS RG
IVTFOZIOB.

XLMXVIMRMT NFOGRNVWRZ, OBMXS LYHVIEVW GSZG TLLW NFOGRNVWRZ ZG GSV NLNVMG
RH SRWVLFHOB VCKVMHREV GL KILWFXV.  SV IVXLNNVMWVW KILWFXRMT NFOGRNVWRZ
DRGS VRGSVI EVIB SRTS HZOV EZOFV, LI NFOGRNVWRZ DRGS Z EVIB OLMT ORUV
HKZM, LI NFOGRNVWRZ GSZG DROO SZEV Z EVIB YILZW FHZTV YZHV ZMW DSLHV
XLHGH GSVIVULIV XZM YV ZNLIGRAVW ZNLMT OZITV MFNYVIH LU FHVIH.  RM GSRH
XLMMVXGRLM, SRHGLIRXZO ZMW SFNZMRHGRXZOOB LIRVMGVW NZGVIRZO NZB YV Z TLLW
KOZXV GL HGZIG, YVXZFHV RG GVMWH GL SZEV Z OLMTVI ORUV HKZM GSZM NFXS LU
GSV HXRVMGRURX NZGVIRZO, ZH DVOO ZH Z DRWVI FHVI YZHV.  OBMXS MLGVW, ULI
VCZNKOV, GSZG ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB URGH NZMB LU GSV XIRGVIRZ LFGORMVW.  SV
IVNZIPVW GSV VCGVMHREV WRHXFHHRLM ZYLFG YIRMTRMT GSV RMGVIMVG LI GSV
MZGRLMZO IVHVZIXS ZMW VWFXZGRLM MVGDLIP (MIVM) RMGL GSV P-12 VMERILMNVMG
ZH Z DZB LU SVOKRMT GSV ZNVIRXZM VWFXZGRLMZO HBHGVN.

OBMXS XOLHVW YB MLGRMT GSZG GSV PRMWH LU ZKKORXZGRLMH WVNLMHGIZGVW HGIFXP
SRN ZH VCXVOOVMG QFHGRURXZGRLMH LU YILZW-HXZOV MVGDLIPRMT ULI P-12, YFG
GSZG ZG GSRH GRNV ML "PROOVI" ZKKORXZGRLM VCRHGH GL NLYRORAV GSV P-12
XLNNFMRGB GL LYGZRM XLMMVXGRERGB.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
WRHXFHHRLM * WVZIGS LU TVMFRMVOB RMGVIVHGRMT ZKKORXZGRLMH LM GSV MVGDLIP
Z HOLD-XSZMTRMT HRGFZGRLM * GSV RHHFV LU GSV RMGVTIRGB LU KIVHVMGZGRLM RM
Z MVGDLIPVW VMERILMNVMG * HVEVIZO IVZHLMH DSB XW-ILN HLUGDZIV WLVH MLG
MVGDLIP *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

WFIRMT GSV WRHXFHHRLM KVIRLW GSZG ULOOLDVW OBMXS'H KIVHVMGZGRLM, HVEVIZO
ZWWRGRLMZO KLRMGH DVIV NZWV.

OBMXS IVRGVIZGVW VEVM NLIV HGILMTOB SRH XLMGVMGRLM GSZG, SRHGLIRXZOOB,
LMXV LMV TLVH LFGHRWV SRTS-VMW HXRVMXV ZMW GSV TILFK LU GSLHV DSL MVVW
ZXXVHH GL HFKVIXLNKFGVIH, GSVIV RH Z TIVZG WVZIGS LU TVMFRMVOB
RMGVIVHGRMT ZKKORXZGRLMH LM GSV MVGDLIP.  SV HZD GSRH HRGFZGRLM XSZMTRMT
HOLDOB, DRGS HLNV LU GSV HXRVMGRURX WZGZYZHVH ZMW HXSLOZIOB WRHXFHHRLM
TILFKH ZMW VOVXGILMRX QLFIMZOH XLNRMT LM ZH DVOO ZH DRGS GSV ZEZROZYRORGB
LU DRWV ZIVZ RMULINZGRLM HVIEVIH (DZRH) ZMW HLNV LU GSV WZGZYZHVH GSZG
ZIV YVRMT NLFMGVW GSVIV.  SLDVEVI, NZMB LU GSLHV GSRMTH WL MLG HVVN GL
SZEV KRJFVW TIVZG KLKFOZI RMGVIVHG.  ULI RMHGZMXV, NLHG SRTS HXSLLO
HGFWVMGH LU OBMXS'H ZXJFZRMGZMXV DLFOW MLG JFZORUB ZH WVELGVVH LU HVIRLFH
NLOVXFOZI YRLOLTB.

XLMXVIMRMT GSV RHHFV LU GSV RMGVTIRGB LU KIVHVMGZGRLM, OBMXS YVORVEVW
GSZG Z XLFKOV LU RMULINZGRLM KILERWVIH SZEV OZRW WLDM GSV OZD ZG OVZHG LM
XVIGZRM GSRMTH.  ULI VCZNKOV, SRH IVXLOOVXGRLM DZH GSZG GSV MZGRLMZO
ORYIZIB LU NVWRXRMV UVVOH HGILMTOB GSZG LMV MVVWH GL VNKOLB GSV
RWVMGRURVI URVOW RU SV LI HSV RH GL NLFMG Z WZGZYZHV XLNNVIXRZOOB.  GSV
KILYOVN DRGS Z IVZO MVGDLIPVW VMERILMNVMG RH GSZG LMV WLVH MLG PMLD DSL
RH IVULINZGGRMT ZMW IVKILXVHHRMT LMV'H WZGZ DSVM LMV VMGVIH Z XORVMG
HVIEVI NLWV.  RG YVXLNVH ZMBYLWB'H TFVHH, ULI VCZNKOV, RU GSV MVGDLIP
FHVH Z A39.50 HVIEVI, LI DSZG XORVMGH ZIV WLRMT DRGS LMV'H WZGZ.  Z WZGZ
KILERWVI XZM HZB GSZG SRH XLMGIZXG DROO LMOB KVINRG XORVMGH GL SZEV
ZXXVHH GL SRH WZGZ ZUGVI SV EVGH GSVN ZMW GSVRI KIVHVMGZGRLM ZMW NZPVH
XVIGZRM RG HFRGH SRN.  YFG OBMXS SVOW LFG ORGGOV VCKVXGZGRLM GSZG GSV
MVGDLIP NZIPVGKOZXV DLFOW VELOEV RM GSZG DZB, YVXZFHV RG IVJFRIVW GLL
NFXS KIRLI MVTLGRZGRLM.

XW-ILN HLUGDZIV WLVH MLG MVGDLIP ULI Z EZIRVGB LU IVZHLMH, OBMXS HZRW.
SV HKVXFOZGVW GSZG XW-ILN KFYORHSVIH ZIV MLG VZTVI GL SZEV GSVRI KILWFXGH
IVZOOB SLLP RMGL DRWV ZIVZ MVGDLIPH, YVXZFHV GSVB UVZI RG DROO NZPV GSVRI
WZGZ HFKKORVIH MVIELFH.  NLIVLEVI, FMGRO IVOZGREVOB IVXVMGOB, LMV SZW GL
YV IZGSVI ZWILRG GL IFM Z UFOO GXK/RK HGZXP KOFH ZKKORXZGRLMH LM Z
KX-HRAV NZXSRMV, DSVIVZH MLDZWZBH RG RH YVXLNRMT VZHRVI ZH KXH TILD
YRTTVI ZMW UZHGVI.  OBMXS ZOHL HKVXFOZGVW GSZG HLUGDZIV KILERWVIH SZW MLG
SVZIW UILN GSVRI XFHGLNVIH FMGRO GSV OZHG BVZI LI HL, LI SZW MLG SVZIW
UILN VMLFTS LU GSVRI XFHGLNVIH.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
YVHHVI * RNKORXZGRLMH LU WRHHVNRMZGRMT RNZTVH LM GSV MVGDLIP; KOZMMRMT
GSV WRHGIRYFGRLM LU NFOGRNVWRZ WLXFNVMGH KLHVH GDL XIRGRXZO
