trends toward end-user computing and connectivity, which provide a
framework for forecasting the use of electronic texts through this
millennium.  The presentation concludes with a summary of the ways in
which the nonscientific scholarly community can be expected to use
electronic texts, and the implications of that use for information
providers.

Susan VECCIA and Joanne FREEMAN    Electronic Archives for the Public:
                                   Use of American Memory in Public and
                                   School Libraries

This joint discussion focuses on nonscholarly applications of electronic
library materials, specifically addressing use of the Library of Congress
American Memory (AM) program in a small number of public and school
libraries throughout the United States.  AM consists of selected Library
of Congress primary archival materials, stored on optical media
(CD-ROM/videodisc), and presented with little or no editing.  Many
collections are accompanied by electronic introductions and user's guides
offering background information and historical context.  Collections
represent a variety of formats including photographs, graphic arts,
motion pictures, recorded sound, music, broadsides and manuscripts,
books, and pamphlets.

In 1991, the Library of Congress began a nationwide evaluation of AM in
different types of institutions.  Test sites include public libraries,
elementary and secondary school libraries, college and university
libraries, state libraries, and special libraries.  Susan VECCIA and
Joanne FREEMAN will discuss their observations on the use of AM by the
nonscholarly community, using evidence gleaned from this ongoing
evaluation effort.

VECCIA will comment on the overall goals of the evaluation project, and
the types of public and school libraries included in this study.  Her
comments on nonscholarly use of AM will focus on the public library as a
cultural and community institution, often bridging the gap between formal
and informal education.  FREEMAN will discuss the use of AM in school
libraries.  Use by students and teachers has revealed some broad
questions about the use of electronic resources, as well as definite
benefits gained by the "nonscholar."  Topics will include the problem of
grasping content and context in an electronic environment, the stumbling
blocks created by "new" technologies, and the unique skills and interests
awakened through use of electronic resources.

SESSION II
with users' capabilities * Problems in platform design; file size and its
implications for networking * Transmission of megabyte size images
impractical * Compression and decompression at the user's end * Promising
trends for compression * A disadvantage of using X-Windows * A project at
the Smithsonian that mounts images on several networks *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Howard BESSER, School of Library and Information Science, University of
Pittsburgh, spoke primarily about multimedia, focusing on images and the
broad implications of disseminating them on the network.  He argued that
planning the distribution of multimedia documents posed two critical
implementation problems, which he framed in the form of two questions:
1) What platform will one use and what hardware and software will users
have for viewing of the material?  and 2) How can one deliver a
sufficiently robust set of information in an accessible format in a
reasonable amount of time?  Depending on whether network or CD-ROM is the
medium used, this question raises different issues of storage,
compression, and transmission.

Concerning the design of platforms (e.g., sound, gray scale, simple
color, etc.) and the various capabilities users may have, BESSER
maintained that a layered approach was the way to deal with users'
capabilities.  A result would be that users with less powerful
workstations would simply have less functionality.  He urged members of
the audience to advocate standards and accompanying software that handle
layered functionality across a wide variety of platforms.

BESSER also addressed problems in platform design, namely, deciding how
large a machine to design for situations when the largest number of users
have the lowest level of the machine, and one desires higher
functionality.  BESSER then proceeded to the question of file size and
its implications for networking.  He discussed still images in the main.
For example, a digital color image that fills the screen of a standard
mega-pel workstation (Sun or Next) will require one megabyte of storage
for an eight-bit image or three megabytes of storage for a true color or
twenty-four-bit image.  Lossless compression algorithms (that is,
computational procedures in which no data is lost in the process of
compressing [and decompressing] an image--the exact bit-representation is
maintained) might bring storage down to a third of a megabyte per image,
but not much further than that.  The question of size makes it difficult
to fit an appropriately sized set of these images on a single disk or to
transmit them quickly enough on a network.

With these full screen mega-pel images that constitute a third of a
megabyte, one gets 1,000-3,000 full-screen images on a one-gigabyte disk;
a standard CD-ROM represents approximately 60 percent LU GSZG.  HGLIRMT
RNZTVH GSV HRAV LU Z KX HXIVVM (QFHG 8 YRG XLOLI) RMXIVZHVH HGLIZTV
XZKZXRGB GL 4,000-12,000 RNZTVH KVI TRTZYBGV; 60 KVIXVMG LU GSZG TREVH
LMV GSV HRAV LU Z XW-ILN, DSRXS RM GFIM XIVZGVH Z NZQLI KILYOVN.  LMV
XZMMLG SZEV UFOO-HXIVVM, UFOO-XLOLI RNZTVH DRGS OLHHOVHH XLNKIVHHRLM; LMV
NFHG XLNKIVHH GSVN LI FHV Z OLDVI IVHLOFGRLM.  ULI NVTZYBGV-HRAV RNZTVH,
ZMBGSRMT HOLDVI GSZM Z G-1 HKVVW RH RNKIZXGRXZO.  ULI VCZNKOV, LM Z
URUGB-HRC-PROLYZFW ORMV, RG GZPVH GSIVV NRMFGVH GL GIZMHUVI Z
LMV-NVTZYBGV UROV, RU RG RH MLG XLNKIVHHVW; ZMW GSRH HKVVW ZHHFNVH RWVZO
XRIXFNHGZMXVH (ML LGSVI FHVI XLMGVMWRMT ULI MVGDLIP YZMWDRWGS).  GSFH,
JFVHGRLMH LU WRHP ZXXVHH, IVNLGV WRHKOZB, ZMW XFIIVMG GVOVKSLMV
XLMMVXGRLM HKVVW NZPV GIZMHNRHHRLM LU NVTZYBGV-HRAV RNZTVH RNKIZXGRXZO.

YVHHVI GSVM WRHXFHHVW DZBH GL WVZO DRGS GSVHV OZITV RNZTVH, ULI VCZNKOV,
XLNKIVHHRLM ZMW WVXLNKIVHHRLM ZG GSV FHVI'H VMW.  RM GSRH XLMMVXGRLM, GSV
RHHFVH LU SLD NFXS LMV RH DROORMT GL OLHV RM GSV XLNKIVHHRLM KILXVHH ZMW
DSZG RNZTV JFZORGB LMV MVVWH RM GSV URIHG KOZXV ZIV FMPMLDM.  YFG DSZG RH
PMLDM RH GSZG XLNKIVHHRLM VMGZROH HLNV OLHH LU WZGZ.  YVHHVI FITVW GSZG
NLIV HGFWRVH YV XLMWFXGVW LM RNZTV JFZORGB RM WRUUVIVMG HRGFZGRLMH, ULI
VCZNKOV, DSZG PRMW LU RNZTVH ZIV MVVWVW ULI DSZG PRMW LU WRHXRKORMVH, ZMW
DSZG PRMW LU RNZTV JFZORGB RH MVVWVW ULI Z YILDHRMT GLLO, ZM RMGVINVWRZGV
ERVDRMT GLLO, ZMW ZIXSRERMT.

YVHHVI IVNZIPVW GDL KILNRHRMT GIVMWH ULI XLNKIVHHRLM:  UILN Z GVXSMRXZO
KVIHKVXGREV, ZOTLIRGSNH GSZG FHV DSZG RH XZOOVW HFYQVXGREV IVWFMWZMXB
VNKOLB KIRMXRKOVH UILN ERHFZO KHBXSL-KSBHRXH GL RWVMGRUB ZMW IVNLEV
RMULINZGRLM UILN GSV RNZTV GSZG GSV SFNZM VBV XZMMLG KVIXVREV; UILN ZM
RMGVIXSZMTV ZMW RMGVILKVIZYRORGB KVIHKVXGREV, GSV QKVT (R.V., QLRMG
KSLGLTIZKSRX VCKVIGH TILFK, ZM RHL HGZMWZIW) XLNKIVHHRLM ZOTLIRGSNH ZOHL
LUUVI KILNRHV.  GSVHV RHHFVH LU XLNKIVHHRLM ZMW WVXLNKIVHHRLM, YVHHVI
ZITFVW, IVHVNYOVW GSLHV IZRHVW VZIORVI XLMXVIMRMT GSV WVHRTM LU WRUUVIVMG
KOZGULINH.  TZFTRMT GSV XZKZYRORGRVH LU KLGVMGRZO FHVIH XLMHGRGFGVH Z
KIRNZIB TLZO.  YVHHVI ZWELXZGVW OZBVIRMT LI HVKZIZGRMT GSV RNZTVH UILN
GSV ZKKORXZGRLMH GSZG IVGIRVEV ZMW WRHKOZB GSVN, GL ZELRW GBRMT GSVN GL
KZIGRXFOZI HLUGDZIV.

YVHHVI WVGZROVW HVEVIZO OVHHLMH OVZIMVW UILN SRH DLIP ZG YVIPVOVB DRGS
RNZTVJFVIB, VHKVXRZOOB GSV ZWEZMGZTVH ZMW WRHZWEZMGZTVH LU FHRMT
C-DRMWLDH.  RM GSV OZGGVI XZGVTLIB, ULI VCZNKOV, IVGIRVEZO RH GRVW
WRIVXGOB GL LMV'H WZGZ, ZM RMGLOVIZYOV HRGFZGRLM RM GSV OLMT IFM LM Z
MVGDLIPVW HBHGVN.  URMZOOB, YVHHVI WVHXIRYVW Z KILQVXG LU QRN DZOOZXV ZG
GSV HNRGSHLMRZM RMHGRGFGRLM, DSL RH NLFMGRMT RNZTVH RM Z VCGIVNVOB
IFWRNVMGZIB DZB LM GSV XLNKFHVIE ZMW TVMRV MVGDLIPH ZMW RH KIVKZIRMT GL
NLFMG GSVN LM ZNVIRXZ LM ORMV.  ZOGSLFTS GSV ZEVIZTV FHVI GZPVH LEVI
GSRIGB NRMFGVH GL WLDMOLZW GSVHV RNZTVH (ZHHFNRMT Z UZRIOB UZHG NLWVN),
MVEVIGSVOVHH, RNZTVH SZEV YVVM WLDMOLZWVW 25,000 GRNVH.

YVHHVI XLMXOFWVW SRH GZOP DRGS HVEVIZO XLNNVMGH LM GSV YFHRMVHH
ZIIZMTVNVMG YVGDVVM GSV HNRGSHLMRZM ZMW XLNKFHVIE.  SV XLMGVMWVW GSZG MLG
VMLFTS RH PMLDM XLMXVIMRMT GSV EZOFV LU RNZTVH.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
WRHXFHHRLM * XIVZGRMT WRTRGRAVW KSLGLTIZKSRX XLOOVXGRLMH MVZIOB
RNKLHHRYOV VCXVKG DRGS OZITV LITZMRAZGRLMH ORPV NFHVFNH * MVVW ULI HGFWB
GL WVGVINRMV JFZORGB LU RNZTVH FHVIH DROO GLOVIZGV *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

WFIRMT GSV YIRVU VCXSZMTV YVGDVVM OVHP ZMW YVHHVI GSZG ULOOLDVW, HVEVIZO
XOZIRURXZGRLMH VNVITVW.

