resulting in a system that is specifically tailored to the preservation
application.

A digital library of 1,000 volumes (or approximately 300,000 images) has
been created and is stored on an optical jukebox that resides in CCC.
The library includes a collection of select mathematics monographs that
provides mathematics faculty with an opportunity to use the electronic
library.  The remaining volumes were chosen for the library to test the
various capabilities of the scanning system.

One project objective is to provide users of the Cornell library and the
library staff with the ability to request facsimiles of digitized images
or to retrieve the actual electronic image for browsing.  A prototype
viewing workstation has been created by Xerox, with input into the design
by a committee of Cornell librarians and computer professionals.  This
will allow us to experiment with patron access to the images that make up
the digital library.  The viewing station provides search, retrieval, and
(ultimately) printing functions with enhancements to facilitate
navigation through multiple documents.

Cornell currently is working to extend access to the digital library to
readers using workstations from their offices.  This year is devoted to
the development of a network resident image conversion and delivery
server, and client software that will support readers who use Apple
Macintosh computers, IBM windows platforms, and Sun workstations.
Equipment for this development was provided by Sun Microsystems with
support from the Commission on Preservation and Access.

During the show-and-tell session of the Workshop on Electronic Texts, a
prototype view station will be demonstrated.  In addition, a display of
original library books that have been digitized will be available for
review with associated printed copies for comparison.  The fifteen-minute
overview of the project will include a slide presentation that
constitutes a "tour" of the preservation digitizing process.

The final network-connected version of the viewing station will provide
library users with another mechanism for accessing the digital library,
and will also provide the capability of viewing images directly.  This
will not require special software, although a powerful computer with good
graphics will be needed.

The Joint Study in Digital Preservation has generated a great deal of
interest in the library community.  Unfortunately, or perhaps
fortunately, this project serves to raise a vast number of other issues
surrounding the use of digital technology for the preservation and use of
deteriorating library materials, which subsequent projects will need to
examine.  Much work remains.

SESSION III

Howard BESSER                      Networking Multimedia Databases

What do we have to consider in building and distributing databases of
visual materials in a multi-user environment?  This presentation examines
a variety of concerns that need to be addressed before a multimedia
database can be set up in a networked environment.

In the past it has not been feasible to implement databases of visual
materials in shared-user environments because of technological barriers.
Each of the two basic models for multi-user multimedia databases has
posed its own problem.  The analog multimedia storage model (represented
by Project Athena's parallel analog and digital networks) has required an
incredibly complex (and expensive) infrastructure.  The economies of
scale that make multi-user setups cheaper per user served do not operate
in an environment that requires a computer workstation, videodisc player,
and two display devices for each user.

The digital multimedia storage model has required vast amounts of storage
space (as much as one gigabyte per thirty still images).  In the past the
cost of such a large amount of storage space made this model a
prohibitive choice as well.  But plunging storage costs are finally
making this second alternative viable.

If storage no longer poses such an impediment, what do we need to
consider in building digitally stored multi-user databases of visual
materials?  This presentation will examine the networking and
telecommunication constraints that must be overcome before such databases
can become commonplace and useful to a large number of people.

The key problem is the vast size of multimedia documents, and how this
affects not only storage but telecommunications transmission time.
Anything slower than T-1 speed is impractical for files of 1 megabyte or
larger (which is likely to be small for a multimedia document).  For
instance, even on a 56 Kb line it would take three minutes to transfer a
1-megabyte file.  And these figures assume ideal circumstances, and do
not take into consideration other users contending for network bandwidth,
disk access time, or the time needed for remote display.  Current common
telephone transmission rates would be completely impractical; few users
would be willing to wait the hour necessary to transmit a single image at
2400 baud.

This necessitates compression, which itself raises a number of other
issues.  In order to decrease file sizes significantly, we must employ
lossy compression algorithms.  But how much quality can we afford to
lose?  To date there has been only one significant study done of
image-quality needs for a particular user group, and this study did not
look at loss resulting from compression.  Only after identifying
image-quality needs can we begin to address storage and network bandwidth
needs.

Experience with X-Windows-based applications (such as Imagequery, the
University of California at Berkeley image database) demonstrates the
utility of a client-server topology, but also points to the limitation of
current software for a distributed environment.  For example,
applications like Imagequery can incorporate compression, but current X
By high speed, BROWNRIGG meant 1 megabyte and 1.5 megabytes.  Those units
have been built, he continued, and are in the process of being
type-certified by an independent underwriting laboratory so that they can
be type-licensed by the Federal Communications Commission.  As is the
case with citizens band, one will be able to purchase a unit and not have
to worry about applying for a license.

The basic idea, BROWNRIGG elaborated, is to take high-speed radio data
transmission and create a backbone network that at certain strategic
points in the network will "gateway" into a medium-speed packet radio
(i.e., one that runs at 38.4 kilobytes), so that perhaps by 1994-1995
people, like those in the audience for the price of a VCR could purchase
a medium-speed radio for the office or home, have full network connectivity
to the Internet, and partake of all its services, with no need for an FCC
license and no regular bill from the local common carrier.  BROWNRIGG
presented several details of a demonstration project currently taking
place in San Diego and described plans, pending funding, to install a
full-bore network in the San Francisco area.  This network will have 600
nodes running at backbone speeds, and 100 of these nodes will be libraries,
which in turn will be the gateway ports to the 38.4 kilobyte radios that
will give coverage for the neighborhoods surrounding the libraries.

BROWNRIGG next explained Part 15.247, a new rule within Title 47 of the
Code of Federal Regulations enacted by the FCC in 1985.  This rule
challenged the industry, which has only now risen to the occasion, to
build a radio that would run at no more than one watt of output power and
use a fairly exotic method of modulating the radio wave called spread
spectrum.  Spread spectrum in fact permits the building of networks so
that numerous data communications can occur simultaneously, without
interfering with each other, within the same wide radio channel.

BROWNRIGG explained that the frequencies at which the radios would run
are very short wave signals.  They are well above standard microwave and
radar.  With a radio wave that small, one watt becomes a tremendous punch
per bit and thus makes transmission at reasonable speed possible.  In
order to minimize the potential for congestion, the project is
undertaking to reimplement software which has been available in the
networking business and is taken for granted now, for example, TCP/IP,
routing algorithms, bridges, and gateways.  In addition, the project
plans to take the WAIS server software in the public domain and
reimplement it so that one can have a WAIS server on a Mac instead of a
Unix machine.  The Memex Research Institute believes that libraries, in
particular, will want to use the WAIS servers with packet radio.  This
project, which has a team of about twelve people, will run through 1993
and will include the 100 libraries already mentioned as well as other
professionals such aH GSLHV RM GSV NVWRXZO KILUVHHRLM, VMTRMVVIRMT, ZMW
OZD.  GSFH, GSV MVVW RH GL XIVZGV ZM RMUIZHGIFXGFIV LU IZWRLH GSZG WL MLG
NLEV ZILFMW, DSRXS, YILDMIRTT SLKVH, DROO HLOEV Z KILYOVN MLG LMOB ULI
ORYIZIRVH YFG ULI RMWRERWFZOH DSL, YB ZMW OZITV GLWZB, WL MLG SZEV ZXXVHH
GL GSV RMGVIMVG UILN GSVRI SLNVH ZMW LUURXVH.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
WRHXFHHRLM * KILQVXG LKVIZGRMT UIVJFVMXRVH *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

WFIRMT Z YIRVU WRHXFHHRLM KVIRLW, DSRXS ZOHL XLMXOFWVW GSV WZB'H
KILXVVWRMTH, YILDMIRTT HGZGVW GSZG GSV KILQVXG DZH LKVIZGRMT RM ULFI
UIVJFVMXRVH.  GSV HOLD HKVVW RH LKVIZGRMT ZG 435 NVTZSVIGA, ZMW RG DLFOW
OZGVI TL FK GL 920 NVTZSVIGA.  DRGS GSV SRTS-HKVVW UIVJFVMXB, GSV
LMV-NVTZYBGV IZWRLH DROO IFM ZG 2.4 TRTZYRGH, ZMW 1.5 DROO IFM ZG 5.7.
ZG 5.7, IZRM XZM YV Z UZXGLI, YFG RG DLFOW SZEV GL YV GILKRXZO IZRM,
FMORPV DSZG UZOOH RM NLHG KZIGH LU GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH.

                                 ******

HVHHRLM RE.  RNZTV XZKGFIV, GVCG XZKGFIV, LEVIERVD LU GVCG ZMW
             RNZTV HGLIZTV ULINZGH

DROORZN SLLGLM, ERXV KIVHRWVMG LU LKVIZGRLMH, R-MVG, NLWVIZGVW GSRH HVHHRLM.

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
PVMMVB * UZXGLIH RMUOFVMXRMT WVEVOLKNVMG LU XCK * ZWEZMGZTVH LU FHRMT
WRTRGZO GVXSMLOLTB EVIHFH KSLGLXLKB ZMW NRXILURON * Z KIRNZIB TLZO LU
XCK; KFYORHSRMT XSZOOVMTVH * XSZIZXGVIRHGRXH LU XLKRVH KIRMGVW * JFZORGB
LU HZNKOVH ZXSRVEVW RM RNZTV XZKGFIV * HVEVIZO UZXGLIH GL YV XLMHRWVIVW
RM XSLLHRMT HXZMMRMT * VNKSZHRH LU XCK LM GRNVOB ZMW XLHG-VUUVXGREV
KILWFXGRLM LU YOZXP-ZMW-DSRGV KIRMGVW UZXHRNROVH * IVHFOGH LU KILWFXRMT
NRXILURON UILN WRTRGZO UROVH * ZWEZMGZTVH LU XIVZGRMT NRXILURON * WVGZROH
XLMXVIMRMT KILWFXGRLM * XLHGH * ILOV LU WRTRGZO GVXSMLOLTB RM ORYIZIB
KIVHVIEZGRLM *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

ZMMV PVMMVB, ZHHLXRZGV WRIVXGLI, WVKZIGNVMG LU KIVHVIEZGRLM ZMW
XLMHVIEZGRLM, XLIMVOO FMREVIHRGB, LKVMVW SVI GZOP YB LYHVIERMT GSZG GSV
XLIMVOO CVILC KILQVXG (XCK) SZH YVVM TFRWVW YB GSV ZHHFNKGRLM GSZG GSV
ZYRORGB GL KILWFXV KIRMGVW UZXHRNROVH LI GL IVKOZXV KZKVI DRGS KZKVI
DLFOW YV RNKLIGZMG, ZG OVZHG ULI GSV KIVHVMG TVMVIZGRLM LU FHVIH ZMW
VJFRKNVMG.  HSV WVHXIRYVW GSIVV UZXGLIH GSZG RMUOFVMXVW WVEVOLKNVMG LU
GSV KILQVXG:  1) YVXZFHV GSV KILQVXG SZH VNKSZHRAVW GSV KIVHVIEZGRLM LU
WVGVIRLIZGRMT YIRGGOV YLLPH, GSV JFZORGB LU DSZG DZH KILWFXVW SZW GL YV
HFUURXRVMGOB SRTS GL IVGFIM Z KZKVI IVKOZXVNVMG GL GSV HSVOU.  XCK DZH
LMOB RMGVIVHGVW RM FHRMT:  2) Z HBHGVN GSZG DZH XLHG-VUUVXGREV, DSRXS
NVZMG GSZG RG SZW GL YV XLHG-XLNKVGRGREV DRGS GSV KILXVHHVH XFIIVMGOB
ZEZROZYOV, KIRMXRKZOOB KSLGLXLKB ZMW NRXILURON, ZMW 3) MVD LI XFIIVMGOB
ZEZROZYOV KILWFXG SZIWDZIV ZMW HLUGDZIV.

PVMMVB WVHXIRYVW GSV ZWEZMGZTVH GSZG FHRMT WRTRGZO GVXSMLOLTB LUUVIH LEVI
YLGS KSLGLXLKB ZMW NRXILURON:  1) GSV KLGVMGRZO VCRHGH GL XIVZGV Z SRTSVI
JFZORGB IVKILWFXGRLM LU Z WVGVIRLIZGRMT LIRTRMZO GSZM XLMEVMGRLMZO
ORTSG-OVMH GVXSMLOLTB.  2) YVXZFHV Z WRTRGZO RNZTV RH ZM VMXLWVW
IVKIVHVMGZGRLM, RG XZM YV IVKILWFXVW ZTZRM ZMW ZTZRM DRGS ML IVHFOGRMT
OLHH LU JFZORGB, ZH LKKLHVW GL GSV HRGFZGRLM DRGS ORTSG-OVMH KILXVHHVH,
RM DSRXS GSVIV RH WRHXVIMRYOV WRUUVIVMXV YVGDVVM Z HVXLMW ZMW Z
HFYHVJFVMG TVMVIZGRLM LU ZM RNZTV.  3) Z WRTRGZO RNZTV XZM YV NZMRKFOZGVW
RM Z MFNYVI LU DZBH GL RNKILEV RNZTV XZKGFIV; ULI VCZNKOV, CVILC SZH
WVEVOLKVW Z DRMWLDRMT ZKKORXZGRLM GSZG VMZYOVH LMV GL XZKGFIV Z KZTV
XLMGZRMRMT YLGS GVCG ZMW ROOFHGIZGRLMH RM Z NZMMVI GSZG LKGRNRAVH GSV
IVKILWFXGRLM LU YLGS.  (DRGS ORTSG-OVMH GVXSMLOLTB, LMV NFHG XSLLHV DSRXS
GL LKGRNRAV, GVCG LI GSV ROOFHGIZGRLM; RM KIVHVIEZGRLM NRXILURONRMT, GSV
XFIIVMG KIZXGRXV RH GL HSLLG ZM ROOFHGIZGVW KZTV GDRXV, LMXV GL SRTSORTSG
GSV GVCG ZMW GSV HVXLMW GRNV GL KILERWV GSV YVHG XZKGFIV ULI GSV
ROOFHGIZGRLM.)  4) Z WRTRGZO RNZTV XZM ZOHL YV VWRGVW, WVMHRGB OVEVOH
ZWQFHGVW GL IVNLEV FMWVIORMRMT ZMW HGZRMH, ZMW GL RMXIVZHV OVTRYRORGB ULI
UZRMG WLXFNVMGH.  5) LM-HXIVVM RMHKVXGRLM XZM GZPV KOZXV ZG GSV GRNV LU
RMRGRZO HVGFK ZMW ZWQFHGNVMGH NZWV KIRLI GL HXZMMRMT, UZXGLIH GSZG
HFYHGZMGRZOOB IVWFXV GSV MFNYVI LU IVGZPVH IVJFRIVW RM JFZORGB XLMGILO.

Z KIRNZIB TLZO LU XCK SZH YVVM GL VEZOFZGV GSV KZKVI LFGKFG KIRMGVW LM
GSV CVILC WLXFGVXS, Z SRTS-HKVVW KIRMGVI GSZG KILWFXVH 600-WKR KZTVH UILN
HXZMMVW RNZTVH ZG Z IZGV LU 135 KZTVH Z NRMFGV.  PVMMVB IVXLFMGVW HVEVIZO
KFYORHSRMT XSZOOVMTVH GL IVKIVHVMG UZRGSUFO ZMW OVTRYOV IVKILWFXGRLMH LU
GSV LIRTRMZOH GSZG GSV 600-WKR XLKB ULI GSV NLHG KZIG HFXXVHHUFOOB
XZKGFIVW.  ULI VCZNKOV, NZMB LU GSV WVGVIRLIZGRMT ELOFNVH RM GSV KILQVXG
DVIV SVZEROB ROOFHGIZGVW DRGS URMV ORMV WIZDRMTH LI SZOUGLMVH LI XZNV RM
OZMTFZTVH HFXS ZH QZKZMVHV, RM DSRXS GSV YFROWFK LU XSZIZXGVIH XLNKIRHVW
LU EZIBRMT HGILPVH RH WRUURXFOG GL IVKILWFXV ZG OLDVI IVHLOFGRLMH; Z
HFIKIRHRMT MFNYVI LU GSVN XZNV DRGS ZMMLGZGRLMH ZMW NZGSVNZGRXZO
ULINFOZH, DSRXS RG DZH XIRGRXZO GL YV ZYOV GL WFKORXZGV VCZXGOB.

PVMMVB MLGVW GSZG 1) GSV XLKRVH ZIV YVRMT KIRMGVW LM KZKVI GSZG NVVGH GSV
ZMHR HGZMWZIWH ULI KVIULINZMXV, 2) GSV WLXFGVXS KIRMGVI NVVGH GSV NZXSRMV
ZMW GLMVI IVJFRIVNVMGH ULI KILKVI ZWSVHRLM LU KIRMG GL KZTV, ZH WVHXIRYVW
YB GSV MZGRLMZO ZIXSREVH, ZMW GSFH 3) KZKVI KILWFXG RH XLMHRWVIVW GL YV
GSV ZIXSREZO VJFREZOVMG LU KIVHVIEZGRLM KSLGLXLKB.

PVMMVB GSVM WRHXFHHVW HVEVIZO HZNKOVH LU GSV JFZORGB ZXSRVEVW RM GSV
KILQVXG GSZG SZW YVVM WRHGIRYFGVW RM Z SZMWLFG, ULI VCZNKOV, Z XLKB LU Z
KIRMG-LM-WVNZMW EVIHRLM LU GSV 1911 IVVW OVXGFIV LM GSV HGVZN GFIYRMV,
DSRXS XLMGZRMH SZOUGLMVH, ORMV WIZDRMTH, ZMW ROOFHGIZGRLMH VNYVWWVW RM
GVCG; GSV URIHG ULFI OLLHV KZTVH RM GSV ELOFNV XLNKZIVW GSV XZKGFIV
XZKZYRORGRVH LU HXZMMRMT GL KSLGLXLKB ULI Z HGZMWZIW GVHG GZITVG, GSV
RVVV HGZMWZIW 167Z 1987 GVHG XSZIG.  RM ZOO RMHGZMXVH HXZMMRMT KILEVW
