across the country, or move a file from one library to another.  The next
five years will witness substantial development of the information
infrastructure of the network.

In order to provide appropriate leadership, library professionals must
have a fundamental understanding of and appreciation for computer
networking, from local area networks to the National Research and
Education Network (NREN).  This presentation addresses these
fundamentals, and how they relate to libraries today and in the near
future.

Edwin BROWNRIGG               Electronic Library Visions and Realities

The electronic library has been a vision desired by many--and rejected by
some--since Vannevar Bush coined the term memex to describe an automated,
intelligent, personal information system.  Variations on this vision have
included Ted Nelson's Xanadau, Alan Kay's Dynabook, and Lancaster's
"paperless library," with the most recent incarnation being the
"Knowledge Navigator" described by John Scully of Apple.  But the reality
of library service has been less visionary and the leap to the electronic
library has eluded universities, publishers, and information technology
files.

The Memex Research Institute (MemRI), an independent, nonprofit research
and development organization, has created an Electronic Library Program
of shared research and development in order to make the collective vision
more concrete.  The program is working toward the creation of large,
indexed publicly available electronic image collections of published
documents in academic, special, and public libraries.  This strategic
plan is the result of the first stage of the program, which has been an
investigation of the information technologies available to support such
an effort, the economic parameters of electronic service compared to
traditional library operations, and the business and political factors
affecting the shift from print distribution to electronic networked
access.

The strategic plan envisions a combination of publicly searchable access
databases, image (and text) document collections stored on network "file
servers," local and remote network access, and an intellectual property
management-control system.  This combination of technology and
information content is defined in this plan as an E-library or E-library
collection.  Some participating sponsors are already developing projects
based on MemRI's recommended directions.

The E-library strategy projected in this plan is a visionary one that can
enable major changes and improvements in academic, public, and special
library service.  This vision is, though, one that can be realized with
today's technology.  At the same time, it will challenge the political
and social structure within which libraries operate:  in academic
libraries, the traditional emphasis on local collections, extending to
accreditation issues; in public libraries, the potential of electronic
branch and central libraries fully available to the public; and for
special libraries, new opportunities for shared collections and networks.

The environment in which this strategic plan has been developed is, at
the moment, dominated by a sense of library limits.  The continued
expansion and rapid growth of local academic library collections is now
clearly at an end.  Corporate libraries, and even law libraries, are
faced with operating within a difficult economic climate, as well as with
very active competition from commercial information sources.  For
example, public libraries may be seen as a desirable but not critical
municipal service in a time when the budgets of safety and health
agencies are being cut back.

Further, libraries in general have a very high labor-to-cost ratio in
their budgets, and labor costs are still increasing, notwithstanding
automation investments.  It is difficult for libraries to obtain capital,
startup, or seed funding for innovative activities, and those
technology-intensive initiatives that offer the potential of decreased
labor costs can provoke the opposition of library staff.

However, libraries have achieved some considerable successes in the past
two decades by improving both their service and their credibility within
their organizations--and these positive changes have been accomplished
mostly with judicious use of information technologies.  The advances in
computing and information technology have been well-chronicled:  the
continuing precipitous drop in computing costs, the growth of the
Internet and private networks, and the explosive increase in publicly
available information databases.

For example, OCLC has become one of the largest computer network
organizations in the world by creating a cooperative cataloging network
of more than 6,000 libraries worldwide.  On-line public access catalogs
now serve millions of users on more than 50,000 dedicated terminals in
the United States alone.  The University of California MELVYL on-line
catalog system has now expanded into an index database reference service
and supports more than six million searches a year.  And, libraries have
become the largest group of customers of CD-ROM publishing technology;
more than 30,000 optical media publications such as those offered by
InfoTrac and Silver Platter are subscribed to by U.S. libraries.

This march of technology continues and in the next decade will result in
further innovations that are extremely difficult to predict.  What is
clear is that libraries can now go beyond automation of their order files
and catalogs to automation of their collections themselves--and it is
possible to circumvent the fiscal limitations that appear to obtain
today.

This Electronic Library Strategic Plan recommends a paradigm shift in
library service, and demonstrates the steps necessary to provide improved
library services with limited capacities and operating investments.

SESSION IV-A

Anne KENNEY

The Cornell/Xerox Joint Study in Digital Preservation resulted in the
recording of 1,000 brittle books as 600-dpi digital images and the
production, on demand, of high-quality and archivally sound paper
replacements.  The project, which was supported by the Commission on
Preservation and Access, also investigated some of the issues surrounding
scanning, storing, retrieving, and providing access to digital images in
a network environment.

Anne Kenney will focus on some of the issues surrounding direct scanning
as identified in the Cornell Xerox Project.  Among those to be discussed
are:  image versus text capture; indexing and access; image-capture
capabilities; a comparison to photocopy and microfilm; production and
cost analysis; storage formats, protocols, and standards; and the use of
this scanning technology for preservation purposes.

The 600-dpi digital images produced in the Cornell Xerox Project proved
highly acceptable for creating paper replacements of deteriorating
originals.  The 1,000 scanned volumes provided an array of image-capture
challenges that are common to nineteenth-century printing techniques and
embrittled material, and that defy the use of text-conversion processes.
These challenges include diminished contrast between text and background,
fragile and deteriorated pages, uneven printing, elaborate type faces,
faint and bold text adjacency, handwritten text and annotations, nonRoman
languages, and a proliferation of illustrated material embedded in text.
The latter category included high-frequency and low-frequency halftones,
continuous tone photographs, intricate mathematical drawings, maps,
etchings, reverse-polarity drawings, and engravings.

The Xerox prototype scanning system provided a number of important
features for capturing this diverse material.  Technicians used multiple
threshold settings, filters, line art and halftone definitions,
autosegmentation, windowing, and software-editing programs to optimize
image capture.  At the same time, this project focused on production.
The goal was to make scanning as affordable and acceptable as
photocopying and microfilming for preservation reformatting.  A
time-and-cost study conducted during the last three months of this
project confirmed the economic viability of digital scanning, and these
findings will be discussed here.

From the outset, the Cornell Xerox Project was predicated on the use of
nonproprietary standards and the use of common protocols when standards
did not exist.  Digital files were created as TIFF images which were
compressed prior to storage using Group 4 CCITT compression.  The Xerox
software is MS DOS based and utilizes off-the shelf programs such as
Microsoft Windows and Wang Image Wizard.  The digital library is designed
to be hardware-independent and to provide interchangeability with other
institutions through network connections.  Access to the digital files
themselves is two-tiered:  Bibliographic records for the computer files
are created in RLIN and Cornell's local system and access into the actual
digital images comprising a book is provided through a document control
structure and a networked image file-server, both of which will be
described.

The presentation will conclude with a discussion of some of the issues
surrounding the use of this technology as a preservation tool (storage,
refreshing, backup).

Pamela ANDRE and Judith ZIDAR

The National Agricultural Library (NAL) has had extensive experience with
raster scanning of printed materials.  Since 1987, the Library has
participated in the National Agricultural Text Digitizing Project (NATDP)
a cooperative effort between NAL and forty-five land grant university
libraries.  An overview of the project will be presented, giving its
history and NAL's strategy for the future.

An in-depth discussion of NATDP will follow, including a description of
the scanning process, from the gathering of the printed materials to the
archiving of the electronic pages.  The type of equipment required for a
stand-alone scanning workstation and the importance of file management
software will be discussed.  Issues concerning the images themselves will
be addressed briefly, such as image format; black and white versus color;
gray scale versus dithering; and resolution.

Also described will be a study currently in progress by NAL to evaluate
the usefulness of converting microfilm to electronic images in order to
improve access.  With the cooperation of Tuskegee University, NAL has
selected three reels of microfilm from a collection of sixty-seven reels
containing the papers, letters, and drawings of George Washington Carver.
The three reels were converted into 3,500 electronic images using a
specialized microfilm scanner.  The selection, filming, and indexing of
this material will be discussed.

Donald WATERS

Project Open Book, the Yale University Library's effort to convert 10,
000 books from microfilm to digital imagery, is currently in an advanced
state of planning and organization.  The Yale Library has selected a
major vendor to serve as a partner in the project and as systems
integrator.  In its proposal, the successful vendor helped isolate areas
of risk and uncertainty as well as key issues to be addressed during the
life of the project.  The Yale Library is now poised to decide what
material it will convert to digital image form and to seek funding,
initially for the first phase and then for the entire project.

The proposal that Yale accepted for the implementation of Project Open
Book will provide at the end of three phases a conversion subsystem,
browsing stations distributed on the campus network within the Yale
Library, a subsystem for storing 10,000 books at 200 and 600 dots per
inch, and network access to the image printers.  Pricing for the system
implementation assumes the existence of Yale's campus ethernet network
and its high-speed image printers, and includes other requisite hardware
and software, as well as system integration services.  Proposed operating
costs include hardware and software maintenance, but do not include
estimates for the facilities management of the storage devices and image
servers.

Yale selected its vendor partner in a formal process, partly funded by
the Commission for Preservation and Access.  Following a request for
proposal, the Yale Library selected two vendors as finalists to work with
Yale staff to generate a detailed analysis of requirements for Project
Open Book.  Each vendor used the results of the requirements analysis to
generate and submit a formal proposal for the entire project.  This
competitive process not only enabled the Yale Library to select its
primary vendor partner but also revealed much about the state of the
imaging industry, about the varying, corporate commitments to the markets
for imaging technology, and about the varying organizational dynamics
through which major companies are responding to and seeking to develop
these markets.

Project Open Book is focused specifically on the conversion of images
from microfilm to digital form.  The technology for scanning microfilm is
readily available but is changing rapidly.  In its project requirements,
the Yale Library emphasized features of the technology that affect the
technical quality of digital image production and the costs of creating
and storing the image library:  What levels of digital resolution can be
achieved by scanning microfilm?  How does variation in the quality of
microfilm, particularly in film produced to preservation standards,
affect the quality of the digital images?  What technologies can an
operator effectively and economically apply when scanning film to
separate two-up images and to control for and correct image
imperfections?  How can quality control best be integrated into
digitizing work flow that includes document indexing and storage?

The actual and expected uses of digital images--storage, browsing,
printing, and OCR--help determine the standards for measuring their
quality.  Browsing is especially important, but the facilities available
for readers to browse image documents is perhaps the weakest aspect of
imaging technology and most in need of development.  As it defined its
requirements, the Yale Library concentrated on some fundamental aspects
of usability for image documents:  Does the system have sufficient
flexibility to handle the full range of document types, including
monographs, multi-part and multivolume sets, and serials, as well as
manuscript collections?  What conventions are necessary to identify a
document uniquely for storage and retrieval?  Where is the database of
record for storing bibliographic information about the image document?
How are basic internal structures of documents, such as pagination, made
accessible to the reader?  How are the image documents physically
presented on the screen to the reader?

The Yale Library designed Project Open Book on the assumption that
microfilm is more than adequate as a medium for preserving the content of
deteriorated library materials.  As planning in the project has advanced,
it is increasingly clear that the challenge of digital image technology
and the key to the success of efforts like Project Open Book is to
provide a means of both preserving and improving access to those
deteriorated materials.

SESSION IV-B

George THOMA

In the use of electronic imaging for document preservation, there are
several issues to consider, such as:  ensuring adequate image quality,
maintaining substantial conversion rates (through-put), providing unique
identification for automated access and retrieval, and accommodating
bound volumes and fragile material.

To maintain high image quality, image processing functions are required
to correct the deficiencies in the scanned image.  Some commercially
available systems include these functions, while some do not.  The
scanned raw image must be processed to correct contrast deficiencies--
both poor overall contrast resulting from light print and/or dark
background, and variable contrast resulting from stains and
bleed-through.  Furthermore, the scan density must be adequate to allow
legibility of print and sufficient fidelity in the pseudo-halftoned gray
material.  Borders or page-edge effects must be removed for both
compactibility and aesthetics.  Page skew must be corrected for aesthetic
reasons and to enable accurate character recognition if desired.
Compound images consisting of both two-toned text and gray-scale
illustrations must be processed appropriately to retain the quality of
each.

SESSION IV-C

Jean BARONAS

Standards publications being developed by scientists, engineers, and
business managers in Association for Information and Image Management
(AIIM) standards committees can be applied to electronic image management
(EIM) processes including:  document (image) transfer, retrieval and
evaluation; optical disk and document scanning; and document design and
conversion.  When combined with EIM system planning and operations,
standards can assist in generating image databases that are
interchangeable among a variety of systems.  The applications of
different approaches for image-tagging, indexing, compression, and
transfer often cause uncertainty concerning EIM system compatibility,
calibration, performance, and upward compatibility, until standard
implementation parameters are established.  The AIIM standards that are
being developed for these applications can be used to decrease the
uncertainty, successfully integrate imaging processes, and promote "open
systems."  AIIM is an accredited American National Standards Institute
(ANSI) standards developer with more than twenty committees comprised of
300 volunteers representing users, vendors, and manufacturers.  The
standards publications that are developed in these committees have
national acceptance and provide the basis for international harmonization
in the development of new International Organization for Standardization
(ISO) standards.

This presentation describes the development of AIIM's EIM standards and a
new effort at AIIM, a database on standards projects in a wide framewoIP
LU RNZTRMT RMWFHGIRVH RMXOFWRMT XZKGFIV, IVXLIWRMT, KILXVHHRMT,
WFKORXZGRLM, WRHGIRYFGRLM, WRHKOZB, VEZOFZGRLM, ZMW KIVHVIEZGRLM.  GSV
ZRRN RNZTVIB WZGZYZHV DROO XLEVI RNZTRMT HGZMWZIWH YVRMT WVEVOLKVW YB
NZMB LITZMRAZGRLMH RM NZMB WRUUVIVMG XLFMGIRVH.  RG DROO XLMGZRM
HGZMWZIWH KFYORXZGRLMH' WZGVH, LIRTRMH, IVOZGVW MZGRLMZO ZMW
RMGVIMZGRLMZO KILQVXGH, HGZGFH, PVB DLIWH, ZMW ZYHGIZXGH.  GSV ZMHR RNZTV
GVXSMLOLTB HGZMWZIWH YLZIW IVJFVHGVW GSZG HFXS Z WZGZYZHV YV VHGZYORHSVW,
ZH WRW GSV RHL/RMGVIMZGRLMZO VOVXGILGVXSMRXZO XLNNRHHRLM QLRMG GZHP ULIXV
LM RNZTVIB.  ZRRN DROO GZPV LM GSV OVZWVIHSRK ILOV ULI GSV WZGZYZHV ZMW
XLLIWRMZGV RGH WVEVOLKNVMG DRGS HVEVIZO HGZMWZIWH WVEVOLKVIH.

KZGIRXRZ YZGGRM

     XSZIZXGVIRHGRXH LU HGZMWZIWH ULI WRTRGZO RNZTVIB:

          * MZGFIV LU WRTRGZO GVXSMLOLTB RNKORVH XLMGRMFRMT ELOZGRORGB.

          * KIVXRKRGLFH HGZMWZIW-HVGGRMT MLG KLHHRYOV ZMW KILYZYOB MLG
          WVHRIZYOV.

          * HGZMWZIWH ZIV Z XLNKOVC RHHFV RMELOERMT GSV NVWRFN, GSV
          SZIWDZIV, GSV HLUGDZIV, ZMW GSV GVXSMRXZO XZKZXRGB ULI
          IVKILWFXGREV URWVORGB ZMW XOZIRGB.

          * GSV KILTMLHRH ULI IVORZYOV ZIXSREZO HGZMWZIWH (ZH WVURMVW YB
          ORYIZIRZMH) RM GSV ULIVHVVZYOV UFGFIV RH KLLI.

     HRTMRURXZMG KLGVMGRZO ZMW ZGGIZXGREVMVHH LU WRTRGZO GVXSMLOLTB ZH Z
     KIVHVIEZGRLM NVWRFN ZMW ZXXVHH NVXSZMRHN.

     KILWFXGREV FHV LU WRTRGZO RNZTVIB ULI KIVHVIEZGRLM IVJFRIVH Z
     IVXLMXVKGFZORARMT LU KIVHVIEZGRLM KIRMXRKOVH RM Z ELOZGROV,
     HGZMWZIWOVHH DLIOW.

     XLMXVKG LU NZMZTRMT XLMGRMFRMT ZXXVHH RM GSV WRTRGZO VMERILMNVMG
     IZGSVI GSZM ULXFHRMT LM GSV KVINZMVMXV LU GSV NVWRFN ZMW OLMT-GVIN
     ZIXSREZO HGZMWZIWH WVEVOLKVW ULI GSV ZMZOLT DLIOW.

     GIZMHRGRLM KVIRLW:  SLD OLMT ZMW DSZG GL WL?

          *  IVWVURMV "ZIXSREZO."

          *  IVNLEV GSV YFIWVM LU "ZIXSREZO XLKB" UILN KZKVI ZIGRUZXGH.

          *  FHV WRTRGZO GVXSMLOLTB ULI HGLIZTV, WVEVOLK NZMZTVNVMG
          HGIZGVTRVH ULI IVUIVHSRMT NVWRFN, SZIWDZIV ZMW HLUGDZIV.

          *  XIVZGV ZXRW-UIVV KZKVI XLKRVH ULI GIZMHRGRLM KVIRLW YZXPFK
          FMGRO DV WVEVOLK IVORZYOV KILXVWFIVH ULI VMHFIRMT XLMGRMFRMT
          ZXXVHH GL WRTRGZO UROVH.

HVHHRLM RE-W

HGFZIG DVRYVO            GSV ILOV LU HTNO NZIPFK RM GSV XLIV KILQVXG (6)

GSV VNVITVMXV LU SRTS-HKVVW GVOVXLNNFMRXZGRLMH MVGDLIPH ZH Z YZHRX
UVZGFIV LU GSV HXSLOZIOB DLIPKOZXV RH WIRERMT GSV WVNZMW ULI VOVXGILMRX
WLXFNVMG WVOREVIB.  GSIVV WRHGRMXG XZGVTLIRVH LU VOVXGILMRX
KFYORHSRMT/IVKFYORHSRMT ZIV MVXVHHZIB GL HFKKLIG ZXXVHH WVNZMWH RM GSRH
VNVITRMT VMERILMNVMG:

     1.)  XLMEVIHRLM LU KZKVI LI NRXILURON ZIXSREVH GL VOVXGILMRX ULINZG
     2.)  XLMEVIHRLM LU VOVXGILMRX UROVH GL ULINZGH GZROLIVW GL
          VOVXGILMRX IVGIRVEZO ZMW WRHKOZB
     3.)  KIRNZIB VOVXGILMRX KFYORHSRMT (NZGVIRZOH ULI DSRXS GSV
          VOVXGILMRX EVIHRLM RH GSV KIRNZIB ULINZG)

LXOX SZH VCKVIRNVMGZO LI KILWFXG WVEVOLKNVMG ZXGRERGRVH RM VZXS LU GSVHV
ZIVZH.  ZNLMT GSV XSZOOVMTVH GSZG ORV ZSVZW RH GSV RMGVTIZGRLM LU GSVHV
GSIVV GBKVH LU RMULINZGRLM HGLIVH RM XLSVIVMG WRHGIRYFGVW HBHGVNH.

GSV XLIV (XSVNRHGIB LMORMV IVGIRVEZO VCKVIRNVMG) KILQVXG RH Z NLWVO ULI
GSV XLMEVIHRLM LU OZITV GVCG ZMW TIZKSRXH XLOOVXGRLMH ULI DSRXS
VOVXGILMRX GBKVHVGGRMT UROVH ZIV ZEZROZYOV (XZGVTLIB 2).  GSV ZNVIRXZM
XSVNRXZO HLXRVGB SZH NZWV ZEZROZYOV XLNKFGVI GBKLTIZKSB UROVH WZGRMT UILN
1980 ULI RGH GDVMGB QLFIMZOH.  GSRH XLOOVXGRLM LU HLNV 250 QLFIMZO-BVZIH
RH YVRMT XLMEVIGVW GL ZM VOVXGILMRX ULINZG GSZG DROO YV ZXXVHHRYOV
GSILFTS HVEVIZO VMW-FHVI ZKKORXZGRLMH.

GSV FHV LU HGZMWZIW TVMVIZORAVW NZIPFK OZMTFZTV (HTNO) LUUVIH GSV NVZMH
GL XZKGFIV GSV HGIFXGFIZO IRXSMVHH LU GSV LIRTRMZO ZIGRXOVH RM Z DZB GSZG
DROO HFKKLIG Z EZIRVGB LU IVGIRVEZO, MZERTZGRLM, ZMW WRHKOZB LKGRLMH
MVXVHHZIB GL MZERTZGV VUUVXGREVOB RM EVIB OZITV GVCG WZGZYZHVH.

ZM HTNO WLXFNVMG XLMHRHGH LU GVCG GSZG RH NZIPVW FK DRGS WVHXIRKGREV GZTH
GSZG HKVXRUB GSV UFMXGRLM LU Z TREVM VOVNVMG DRGSRM GSV WLXFNVMG.  ZH Z
ULINZO OZMTFZTV XLMHGIFXG, ZM HTNO WLXFNVMG XZM YV KZIHVW ZTZRMHG Z
WLXFNVMG-GBKV WVURMRGRLM (WGW) GSZG FMZNYRTFLFHOB WVURMVH DSZG VOVNVMGH
ZIV ZOOLDVW ZMW DSVIV RM GSV WLXFNVMG GSVB XZM (LI NFHG) LXXFI.  GSRH
ULINZORAVW NZK LU ZIGRXOV HGIFXGFIV ZOOLDH GSV FHVI RMGVIUZXV WVHRTM GL
YV FMXLFKOVW UILN GSV FMWVIOBRMT WZGZYZHV HBHGVN, ZM RNKLIGZMG HGVK
GLDZIW RMGVILKVIZYRORGB.  WVNLMHGIZGRLM LU GSRH HVKZIZYRORGB RH Z KZIG LU
GSV XLIV KILQVXG, DSVIVRM FHVI RMGVIUZXV WVHRTMH YLIM LU EVIB WRUUVIVMG
KSROLHLKSRVH DROO ZXXVHH GSV HZNV WZGZYZHV.

MLGVH:
     (6)  GSV XLIV KILQVXG RH Z XLOOZYLIZGRLM ZNLMT XLIMVOO FMREVIHRGB'H
     NZMM ORYIZIB, YVOO XLNNFMRXZGRLMH IVHVZIXS (YVOOXLIV), GSV ZNVIRXZM
     XSVNRXZO HLXRVGB (ZXH), GSV XSVNRXZO ZYHGIZXGH HVIERXV (XZH), ZMW
     LXOX.

NRXSZVO OVHP                  GSV XLIV VOVXGILMRX XSVNRHGIB ORYIZIB

Z NZQLI LM-ORMV UROV LU XSVNRXZO QLFIMZO ORGVIZGFIV XLNKOVGV DRGS
TIZKSRXH RH YVRMT WVEVOLKVW GL GVHG GSV FHZYRORGB LU UFOOB VOVXGILMRX
ZXXVHH GL WLXFNVMGH, ZH Z QLRMG KILQVXG LU XLIMVOO FMREVIHRGB, GSV
ZNVIRXZM XSVNRXZO HLXRVGB, GSV XSVNRXZO ZYHGIZXGH HVIERXV, LXOX, ZMW
YVOOXLIV (DRGS ZWWRGRLMZO HFKKLIG UILN HFM NRXILHBHGVNH, HKIRMTVI-EVIOZT,
WRTRGZR VJFRKNVMG XLIKLIZGRLM, HLMB XLIKLIZGRLM LU ZNVIRXZ, ZMW ZKKOV
XLNKFGVIH).  LFI UROV XLMGZRMH GSV ZNVIRXZM XSVNRXZO HLXRVGB'H LM-ORMV
QLFIMZOH, HFKKOVNVMGVW DRGS GSV TIZKSRXH UILN GSV KZKVI KFYORXZGRLM.  GSV
RMWVCRMT LU GSV ZIGRXOVH UILN XSVNRXZO ZYHGIZXGH WLXFNVMGH RH ZEZROZYOV
RM YLGS RNZTV ZMW GVCG ULINZG, ZMW HVEVIZO WRUUVIVMG RMGVIUZXVH XZM YV
FHVW.  LFI TLZOH ZIV (1) GL ZHHVHH GSV VUUVXGREVMVHH ZMW ZXXVKGZYRORGB LU
VOVXGILMRX ZXXVHH GL KIRNZIB QLFIMZOH ZH XLNKZIVW DRGS KZKVI, ZMW (2) GL
RWVMGRUB GSV NLHG WVHRIZYOV UFMXGRLMH LU GSV FHVI RMGVIUZXV GL ZM
VOVXGILMRX HBHGVN LU QLFIMZOH, RMXOFWRMT RM KZIGRXFOZI Z XLNKZIRHLM LU
KLY WVEVOLKVW MFNVILFH HVOVXGRLM XIRGVIRZ, RMXOFWRMT:  Z URIN XLNNRGGVW
GL RNZTV-WLXFNVMG NZMZTVNVMG, GSV ZYRORGB GL HVIEV ZH HBHGVNH RMGVTIZGLI
RM Z OZITV-HXZOV KILQVXG LEVI HVEVIZO BVZIH, RMGVIVHG RM WVEVOLKRMT GSV
IVJFRHRGV HLUGDZIV ZH Z HGZMWZIW IZGSVI GSZM Z XFHGLN KILWFXG, ZMW Z
DROORMTMVHH GL RMEVHG HFYHGZMGRZO IVHLFIXVH RM GSV KILQVXG RGHVOU.

GDL EVMWLIH, WVX ZMW CVILC, DVIV HVOVXGVW ZH URMZORHGH RM LXGLYVI 1991,
ZMW DRGS GSV HFKKLIG LU GSV XLNNRHHRLM LM KIVHVIEZGRLM ZMW ZXXVHH, VZXS
DZH XLNNRHHRLMVW GL TVMVIZGV Z WVGZROVW IVJFRIVNVMGH ZMZOBHRH ULI GSV
KILQVXG ZMW GSVM GL HFYNRG Z ULINZO KILKLHZO ULI GSV XLNKOVGRLM LU GSV
KILQVXG, DSRXS RMXOFWVW Z YFWTVG ZMW XLHGH. GSV GVINH DVIV GSZG KLY DLFOW
KZB GSV OLHVI.  GSV IVHFOGH ULI BZOV LU RMELOERMT Z EVMWLI RMXOFWVW:
YILZW RMELOEVNVMG LU BZOV HGZUU ZXILHH GSV YLZIW ZG Z IVOZGREVOB OLD
XLHG, DSRXS NZB SZEV OLMT-GVIN HRTMRURXZMXV RM XZIIBRMT LFG GSV KILQVXG
(GDVMGB-UREV GL GSRIGB FMREVIHRGB KVLKOV ZIV VMTZTVW RM KLY); YVGGVI
FMWVIHGZMWRMT LU GSV UZXGLIH GSZG ZUUVXG XLIKLIZGV IVHKLMHV GL NZIPVGH
ULI RNZTRMT KILWFXGH; Z XLNKVGRGREV KILKLHZO; ZMW Z NLIV HLKSRHGRXZGVW
ERVD LU GSV RNZTRMT NZIPVGH.

GSV NLHG RNKLIGZMG UZXGLI GSZG WRHGRMTFRHSVW GSV EVMWLIH FMWVI
XLMHRWVIZGRLM DZH GSVRI RWVMGRURXZGRLM DRGS GSV XFHGLNVI.  GSV HRAV ZMW
RMGVIMZO XLNKOVCRGB LU GSV XLNKZMB ZOHL DZH ZM RNKLIGZMG UZXGLI.  KLY DZH
OLLPRMT ZG OZITV XLNKZMRVH GSZG SZW HFYHGZMGRZO IVHLFIXVH.  RM GSV VMW,
GSV KILXVHH TVMVIZGVW ULI BZOV GDL XLNKVGRGREV KILKLHZOH, DRGS CVILC'H
GSV XOVZI DRMMVI.  DZGVIH GSVM WVHXIRYVW GSV XLNKLMVMGH LU GSV KILKLHZO,
GSV WVHRTM KIRMXRKOVH, ZMW HLNV LU GSV XLHGH VHGRNZGVW ULI GSV KILXVHH.

XLNKLMVMGH ZIV VHHVMGRZOOB ULFI:  Z XLMEVIHRLM HFYHBHGVN, Z
MVGDLIP-ZXXVHHRYOV HGLIZTV HFYHBHGVN ULI 10,000 YLLPH (ZMW KLY VCKVXGH
200 GL 600 WKR HGLIZTV), YILDHRMT HGZGRLMH WRHGIRYFGVW LM GSV XZNKFH
MVGDLIP, ZMW MVGDLIP ZXXVHH GL GSV RNZTV KIRMGVIH.

ZNLMT GSV WVHRTM KIRMXRKOVH, KLY DZMGVW XLMEVIHRLM ZG GSV SRTSVHG
KLHHRYOV IVHLOFGRLM.  ZHHFNRMT GRUU UROVH, GRUU UROVH DRGS TILFK 4
XLNKIVHHRLM, GXK/RK, ZMW VGSVIMVG MVGDLIP LM XZNKFH, KLY DZMGVW Z
XORVMG-HVIEVI ZKKILZXS DRGS RNZTV WLXFNVMGH WRHGIRYFGVW GL GSV
DLIPHGZGRLMH ZMW NZWV ZXXVHHRYOV GSILFTS MZGREV DLIPHGZGRLM RMGVIUZXVH
HFXS ZH DRMWLDH.  KLY ZOHL RMHRHGVW LM Z KSZHVW ZKKILZXS GL
RNKOVNVMGZGRLM:  1) Z HGZMW-ZOLMV, HRMTOV-FHVI, OLD-XLHG VMGIB RMGL GSV
YFHRMVHH DRGS Z DLIPHGZGRLM ULXFHVW LM XLMEVIHRLM ZMW ZOOLDRMT KLY GL
VCKOLIV FHVI ZXXVHH; 2) NLEVNVMG RMGL Z SRTSVI-ELOFNV XLMEVIHRLM DRGS
MVGDLIP-ZXXVHHRYOV HGLIZTV ZMW NFOGRKOV ZXXVHH HGZGRLMH; ZMW 3) Z
SRTS-ELOFNV XLMEVIHRLM, UFOO-XZKZXRGB HGLIZTV, ZMW NFOGRKOV YILDHRMT
HGZGRLMH WRHGIRYFGVW GSILFTSLFG GSV XZNKFH.

GSV XLHGH KILKLHVW ULI HGZIG-FK ZHHFNVW GSV VCRHGVMXV LU GSV BZOV MVGDLIP
ZMW RGH GDL WLXFGVXS RNZTV KIRMGVIH.  LGSVI HGZIG-FK XLHGH ZIV VHGRNZGVW
ZG $1 NROORLM LEVI GSV GSIVV KSZHVH.  ZG GSV VMW LU GSV KILQVXG, GSV ZMMFZO
LKVIZGRMT XLHGH VHGRNZGVW KIRNZIROB ULI GSV HLUGDZIV ZMW SZIWDZIV KILKLHVW
XLNV GL ZYLFG $60,000, YFG GSVHV VCXOFWV XLHGH ULI OZYLI MVVWVW RM GSV
XLMEVIHRLM KILXVHH, MVGDLIP ZMW KIRMGVI FHZTV, ZMW UZXRORGRVH NZMZTVNVMG.

URMZOOB, GSV HVOVXGRLM KILXVHH KILWFXVW ULI BZOV Z NLIV HLKSRHGRXZGVW
ERVD LU GSV RNZTRMT NZIPVGH:  GSV NZMZTVNVMG LU XLNKOVC WLXFNVMGH RM
RNZTV ULIN RH MLG Z KIVHVIEZGRLM KILYOVN, MLG Z ORYIZIB KILYOVN, YFG Z
TVMVIZO KILYOVN RM Z YILZW, TVMVIZO RMWFHGIB.  KIVHVIEZGRLM NZGVIRZOH ZIV
FHVUFO ULI WVEVOLKRMT GSZG NZIPVG YVXZFHV LU GSV JFZORGRVH LU GSV
NZGVIRZO.  ULI VCZNKOV, NFXS LU RG RH LFG LU XLKBIRTSG.  GSV IVHLOFGRLM
LU PVB RHHFVH HFXS ZH GSV JFZORGB LU HXZMMRMT ZMW RNZTV YILDHRMT ZOHL
DROO ZUUVXG WVEVOLKNVMG LU GSZG NZIPVG.

GSV GVXSMLOLTB RH IVZWROB ZEZROZYOV YFG XSZMTRMT IZKRWOB.  RM GSRH
XLMGVCG LU IZKRW XSZMTV, HVEVIZO UZXGLIH ZUUVXG JFZORGB ZMW XLHG, GL
DSRXS KLY RMGVMWH GL KZB KZIGRXFOZI ZGGVMGRLM, ULI VCZNKOV, GSV EZIRLFH
OVEVOH LU IVHLOFGRLM GSZG XZM YV ZXSRVEVW.  KLY YVORVEVH RG XZM YIRMT
IVHLOFGRLM FK GL 600 WKR, YFG ZM RMGVIKLOZGRLM KILXVHH UILN 400 GL 600 RH
NLIV ORPVOB.  GSV EZIRZGRLM JFZORGB RM NRXILURON DROO KILEV GL YV Z
SRTSOB RNKLIGZMG UZXGLI.  KLY NZB IVVCZNRMV GSV HGZMWZIWH FHVW GL URON RM
GSV URIHG KOZXV YB OLLPRMT ZG GSRH KILXVHH ZH Z ULOOLD-LM GL NRXILURONRMT.

LGSVI RNKLIGZMG UZXGLIH RMXOFWV:  GSV GVXSMRJFVH ZEZROZYOV GL GSV
LKVIZGLI ULI SZMWORMT NZGVIRZO, GSV DZBH LU RMGVTIZGRMT JFZORGB XLMGILO
RMGL GSV WRTRGRARMT DLIP UOLD, ZMW Z DLIP UOLD GSZG RMXOFWVH RMWVCRMT ZMW
HGLIZTV.  KLY'H IVJFRIVNVMG DZH GL YV ZYOV GL WVZO DRGS JFZORGB XLMGILO
ZG GSV KLRMG LU HXZMMRMT.  GSFH, GSZMPH GL CVILC, KLY ZMGRXRKZGVH SZERMT
Z NVXSZMRHN DSRXS DROO ZOOLD RG MLG LMOB GL HXZM RM YZGXS ULIN, YFG GL
IVERVD GSV NZGVIRZO ZH RG TLVH GSILFTS GSV HXZMMVI ZMW XLMGILO JFZORGB
UILN GSV LFGHVG.

GSV HGZMWZIWH ULI NVZHFIRMT JFZORGB ZMW XLHGH WVKVMW TIVZGOB LM GSV FHVH
LU GSV NZGVIRZO, RMXOFWRMT HFYHVJFVMG LXI, HGLIZTV, KIRMGRMT, ZMW
YILDHRMT.  YFG VHKVXRZOOB ZG RHHFV ULI KLY RH GSV UZXRORGB ULI YILDHRMT.
GSRH UZXRORGB, DZGVIH HZRW, RH KVISZKH GSV DVZPVHG ZHKVXG LU RNZTRMT
GVXSMLOLTB ZMW GSV NLHG RM MVVW LU WVEVOLKNVMG.

Z EZIRVGB LU UZXGLIH ZUUVXG GSV FHZYRORGB LU XLNKOVC WLXFNVMGH RM RNZTV
ULIN, ZNLMT GSVN:  1) GSV ZYRORGB LU GSV HBHGVN GL SZMWOV GSV UFOO IZMTV
LU WLXFNVMG GBKVH, MLG QFHG NLMLTIZKSH YFG HVIRZOH, NFOGR-KZIG
NLMLTIZKSH, ZMW NZMFHXIRKGH; 2) GSV OLXZGRLM LU GSV WZGZYZHV LU IVXLIW
ULI YRYORLTIZKSRX RMULINZGRLM ZYLFG GSV RNZTV WLXFNVMG, DSRXS KLY DZMGH
GL VMGVI LMXV ZMW RM GSV NLHG FHVUFO KOZXV, GSV LM-ORMV XZGZOLT; 3) Z
WLXFNVMG RWVMGRURVI ULI IVUVIVMXRMT GSV YRYORLTIZKSRX RMULINZGRLM RM LMV
KOZXV ZMW GSV RNZTVH RM ZMLGSVI; 4) GSV GVXSMRJFV ULI NZPRMT GSV YZHRX
RMGVIMZO HGIFXGFIV LU GSV WLXFNVMG ZXXVHHRYOV GL GSV IVZWVI; ZMW URMZOOB,
5) GSV KSBHRXZO KIVHVMGZGRLM LM GSV XIG LU GSLHV WLXFNVMGH.  KLY RH IVZWB
GL XLNKOVGV GSRH KSZHV MLD.  LMV OZHG WVXRHRLM RMELOEVH WVXRWRMT DSRXS
NZGVIRZO GL HXZM.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
WRHXFHHRLM * GRUU UROVH XLMHGRGFGV WV UZXGL HGZMWZIW * MZIZ'H VCKVIRVMXV
DRGS RNZTV XLMEVIHRLM HLUGDZIV ZMW GVCG XLMEVIHRLM * IUX 1314 *
XLMHRWVIZYOV UOFC XLMXVIMRMT ZEZROZYOV SZIWDZIV ZMW HLUGDZIV HLOFGRLMH *
