difficulty in using an electronic resource.  Though students in general
did not suffer from this anxiety, several older students feared that they
were computer-illiterate, an assumption that became self-fulfilling when
they searched for something but failed to find it.  FREEMAN said she
believed that some teachers also fear computer resources, because they
believe they lack complete control.  FREEMAN related the example of
teachers shooing away students because it was not their time to use the
system.  This was a case in which the situation had to be extremely
structured so that the teachers would not feel that they had lost their
grasp on what the system contained.

A final question raised by FREEMAN concerned access and availability of
the system.  She noted the occasional existence of a gap in communication
between school librarians and teachers.  Often AM sits in a school
library and the librarian is the person responsible for monitoring the
system.  Teachers do not always take into their world new library
resourXVH ZYLFG DSRXS GSV ORYIZIRZM RH VCXRGVW.  RMWVVW, ZG GSV HRGVH
DSVIV ZN SZW YVVM FHVW NLHG VUUVXGREVOB DRGSRM Z ORYIZIB, GSV ORYIZIRZM
DZH IVJFRIVW GL TL GL HKVXRURX GVZXSVIH ZMW RMHGIFXG GSVN RM RGH FHV.  ZH
Z IVHFOG, HVEVIZO ZN HRGVH DROO SZEV RM-HVIERXV HVHHRLMH LEVI Z HFNNVI,
RM GSV SLKV GSZG KVISZKH, DRGS Z NLIV RMWRERWFZORAVW ORMP, GVZXSVIH DROO
YV NLIV ORPVOB GL FHV GSV IVHLFIXV.

Z IVOZGVW RHHFV RM GSV HXSLLO XLMGVCG XLMXVIMVW GSV MFNYVI LU
DLIPHGZGRLMH ZEZROZYOV ZG ZMB LMV OLXZGRLM.  XVMGIZORAZGRLM LU VJFRKNVMG
ZG GSV WRHGIRXG OVEVO, DRGS GVZXSVIH RMERGVW GL WLDMOLZW GSRMTH ZMW DZOP
ZDZB DRGS GSVN, KILEVW FMHFXXVHHUFO YVXZFHV GSV SLFIH GSVHV LUURXVH DVIV
LKVM DVIV ZOHL HXSLLO SLFIH.

ZMLGSVI RHHFV DZH SZIWDZIV.  ZH EVXXRZ LYHVIEVW, Z IZMTV LU HRGVH VCRHGH,
HLNV GVXSMLOLTRXZOOB ZWEZMXVW ZMW LGSVIH VHHVMGRZOOB ZXJFRIRMT GSVRI
