see anything; then she looked at the sides of the well, and
noticed that they were filled with cupboards and book-shelves;
here and there she saw maps and pictures hung upon pegs.  She
took down a jar from one of the shelves as she passed; it was
labelled `ORANGE MARMALADE', but to her great disappointment it
was empty:  she did not like to drop the jar for fear of killing
somebody, so managed to put it into one of the cupboards as she
fell past it.

  `Well!' thought Alice to herself, `after such a fall as this, I
shall think nothing of tumbling down stairs!  How brave they'll
all think me at home!  Why, I wouldn't say anything about it,
even if I fell off the top of the house!' (Which was very likely
true.)

  Down, down, down.  Would the fall NEVER come to an end!  `I
wonder how many miles I've fallen by this time?' she said aloud.
`I must be getting somewhere near the centre of the earth.  Let
me see:  that would be four thousand miles down, I think--' (fLI,
BLF HVV, ZORXV SZW OVZIMG HVEVIZO GSRMTH LU GSRH HLIG RM SVI
OVHHLMH RM GSV HXSLLOILLN, ZMW GSLFTS GSRH DZH MLG Z EVIB TLLW
LKKLIGFMRGB ULI HSLDRMT LUU SVI PMLDOVWTV, ZH GSVIV DZH ML LMV GL
ORHGVM GL SVI, HGROO RG DZH TLLW KIZXGRXV GL HZB RG LEVI) `--BVH,
GSZG'H ZYLFG GSV IRTSG WRHGZMXV--YFG GSVM R DLMWVI DSZG OZGRGFWV
LI OLMTRGFWV R'EV TLG GL?'  (ZORXV SZW ML RWVZ DSZG OZGRGFWV DZH,
LI OLMTRGFWV VRGSVI, YFG GSLFTSG GSVB DVIV MRXV TIZMW DLIWH GL
HZB.)

  KIVHVMGOB HSV YVTZM ZTZRM.  `R DLMWVI RU R HSZOO UZOO IRTSG
GSILFTS GSV VZIGS!  SLD UFMMB RG'OO HVVN GL XLNV LFG ZNLMT GSV
KVLKOV GSZG DZOP DRGS GSVRI SVZWH WLDMDZIW!  GSV ZMGRKZGSRVH, R
