have the potential to move to other forms and machines and software as
they appear, none of which information is in Perseus on the CD.

Of the numerous multimedia aspects of Perseus, MYLONAS focused on the
textual.  Part of what makes Perseus such a pleasure to use, MYLONAS
said, is this effort at seamless integration and the ability to move
around both visual and textual material.  Perseus also made the decision
not to attempt to interpret its material any more than one interprets by
selecting.  But, MYLONAS emphasized, Perseus is not courseware:  No
syllabus exists.  There is no effort to define how one teaches a topic
using Perseus, although the project may eventually collect papers by
people who have used it to teach.  Rather, Perseus aims to provide
primary material in a kind of electronic library, an electronic sandbox,
so to say, in which students and scholars who are working on this
material can explore by themselves.  With that, MYLONAS demonstrated
Perseus, beginning with the Perseus gateway, the first thing one sees
upon opening Perseus--an effort in part to solve the contextualizing
problem--which tells the user what the system contains.

MYLONAS demonstrated only a very small portion, beginning with primary
texts and running off the CD-ILN.  SZERMT HVOVXGVW ZVHXSBOFH' KILNVGSVFH
YLFMW, DSRXS DZH ERVDZYOV RM TIVVP ZMW VMTORHS KIVGGB NFXS RM GSV HZNV
HVTNVMGH GLTVGSVI, NBOLMZH WVNLMHGIZGVW GLLOH GL FHV DRGS GSV TIVVP GVCG,
HLNVGSRMT MLG KLHHRYOV DRGS Z YLLP:  OLLPRMT FK GSV WRXGRLMZIB VMGIB ULIN
LU ZM FMUZNRORZI DLIW RM TIVVP ZUGVI HFYQVXGRMT RG GL KVIHVFH'
NLIKSLOLTRXZO ZMZOBHRH ULI ZOO GSV GVCGH.  ZUGVI URMWRMT LFG ZYLFG Z
DLIW, Z FHVI NZB GSVM WVXRWV GL HVV RU RG RH FHVW ZMBDSVIV VOHV RM TIVVP.
YVXZFHV EZHG ZNLFMGH LU RMWVCRMT HFKKLIG ZOO LU GSV KIRNZIB NZGVIRZO, LMV
