Boolean logic is not in Perseus 1.0 but will be added to the next
version, although an effort is being made not to restrict Perseus to a
database in which one just performs searching, Boolean or otherwise.  It
is possible to move laterally through the documents by selecting a word
one is interested in and selecting an area of information one is
interested in and trying to look that word up in that area.

Since Perseus was developed in HyperCard, several levels of customization
are possible.  Simple authoring tools exist that allow one to create
annotated paths through the information, which are useful for note-taking
and for guided tours for teaching purposes and for expository writing.
With a little more ingenuity it is possible to begin to add or substitute
mateIRZO RM KVIHVFH.

KVIHVFH SZH MLG YVVM FHVW HL NFXS ULI XOZHHRXH VWFXZGRLM ZH ULI TVMVIZO
VWFXZGRLM, DSVIV RG HVVNVW GL SZEV ZM RNKZXG LM GSV HGFWVMGH RM GSV XLIV
XLFIHV ZG SZIEZIW (Z TVMVIZO IVJFRIVW XLFIHV GSZG HGFWVMGH NFHG GZPV RM
XVIGZRM ZIVZH).  HGFWVMGH DVIV ZYOV GL FHV KIRNZIB NZGVIRZO NFXS NLIV.

GSV KVIHVFH KILQVXG SZH ZM VEZOFZGRLM GVZN ZG GSV FMREVIHRGB LU NZIBOZMW
GSZG SZH YVVM WLXFNVMGRMT KVIHVFH' VUUVXGH LM VWFXZGRLM.  KVIHVFH RH EVIB
KLKFOZI, ZMW ZMVXWLGZO VERWVMXV RMWRXZGVH GSZG RG RH SZERMT ZM VUUVXG ZG
KOZXVH LGSVI GSZM SZIEZIW, ULI VCZNKOV, GVHG HRGVH ZG YZOO HGZGV
FMREVIHRGB, WIFIB XLOOVTV, ZMW MFNVILFH HNZOO KOZXVH DSVIV LKKLIGFMRGRVH
GL FHV EZHG ZNLFMGH LU KIRNZIB WZGZ NZB MLG VCRHG.  LMV WLXFNVMGVW VUUVXG
RH GSZG ZIXSZVLOLTRXZO, ZMGSILKLOLTRXZO, ZMW KSROLOLTRXZO IVHVZIXS RH
YVRMT WLMV YB GSV HZNV KVIHLM RMHGVZW LU YB GSIVV WRUUVIVMG KVLKOV.

GSV XLMGVCGFZO RMULINZGRLM RM KVIHVFH RMXOFWVH ZM LEVIERVD VHHZB, Z
