
  Alice was not a bit hurt, and she jumped up on to her feet in a
moment:  she looked up, but it was all dark overhead; before her
was another long passage, and the White Rabbit was still in
sight, hurrying down it.  There was not a moment to be lost:
away went Alice like the wind, and was just in time to hear it
say, as it turned a corner, `Oh my ears and whiskers, how late
it's getting!'  She was close behind it when she turned the
corner, but the Rabbit was no longer to be seen:  she found
herself in a long, low hall, which was lit up by a row of lamps
hanging from the roof.

  There were doors all round the hall, but they were all locked;
and when Alice had been all the way down one side and up the
other, trying every door, she walked sadly down the middle,
wondering how she was ever to get out again.

  Suddenly she came upon a little three-legged table, all made of
solid glass; there was nothing on it except a tiny golden key,
and Alice's first thought was that it might belong to one of the
doors of the hall; but, alas! either the locks were too large, or
the key was too small, but at any rate it would not open any of
them.  However, on the second time round, she came upon a low
curtain she had not noticed before, and behind it was a little
door about fifteen inches high:  she tried the little golden key
in the lock, and to her great delight it fitted!

  Alice opened the door and found that it led into a small
passage, not much larger than a rat-hole:  she knelt down and
looked along the passage into the loveliest garden you ever saw.
How she longed to get out of that dark hall, and wander about
among those beds of bright flowers and those cool fountains, but
she could not even get her head though the doorway; `and even if
my head would go through,' thought poor Alice, `it would be of
very little use without my shoulders.  Oh, how I wish
I could shut up like a telescope!  I think I could, if I only
know how to begin.'  For, you see, so many out-of-the-way things
had happened lately, that Alice had begun to think that very few
things indeed were really impossible.

  There seemed to be no use in waiting by the little door, so she
went back to the table, half hoping she might find another key on
it, or at any rate a book of rules for shutting people up like
telescopes:  this time she found a little bottle on it, (`which
certainly was not here before,' said Alice,) and round the neck
of the bottle was a paper label, with the words `DRINK ME'
beautifully printed on it in large letters.

  It was all very well to say `Drink me,' but the wise little
Alice was not TLRMT GL WL GSZG RM Z SFIIB.  `ML, R'OO OLLP
URIHG,' HSV HZRW, `ZMW HVV DSVGSVI RG'H NZIPVW "KLRHLM" LI MLG';
ULI HSV SZW IVZW HVEVIZO MRXV ORGGOV SRHGLIRVH ZYLFG XSROWIVM DSL
SZW TLG YFIMG, ZMW VZGVM FK YB DROW YVZHGH ZMW LGSVI FMKOVZHZMG
GSRMTH, ZOO YVXZFHV GSVB DLFOW MLG IVNVNYVI GSV HRNKOV IFOVH
GSVRI UIRVMWH SZW GZFTSG GSVN:  HFXS ZH, GSZG Z IVW-SLG KLPVI
DROO YFIM BLF RU BLF SLOW RG GLL OLMT; ZMW GSZG RU BLF XFG BLFI
URMTVI EVIB WVVKOB DRGS Z PMRUV, RG FHFZOOB YOVVWH; ZMW HSV SZW
MVEVI ULITLGGVM GSZG, RU BLF WIRMP NFXS UILN Z YLGGOV NZIPVW
`KLRHLM,' RG RH ZONLHG XVIGZRM GL WRHZTIVV DRGS BLF, HLLMVI LI
OZGVI.

  SLDVEVI, GSRH YLGGOV DZH MLG NZIPVW `KLRHLM,' HL ZORXV EVMGFIVW
GL GZHGV RG, ZMW URMWRMT RG EVIB MRXV, (RG SZW, RM UZXG, Z HLIG
LU NRCVW UOZELFI LU XSVIIB-GZIG, XFHGZIW, KRMV-ZKKOV, ILZHG
GFIPVB, GLUUVV, ZMW SLG YFGGVIVW GLZHG,) HSV EVIB HLLM URMRHSVW
RG LUU.

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

         *       *       *       *       *       *

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

  `DSZG Z XFIRLFH UVVORMT!' HZRW ZORXV; `R NFHG YV HSFGGRMT FK
ORPV Z GVOVHXLKV.'

  ZMW HL RG DZH RMWVVW:  HSV DZH MLD LMOB GVM RMXSVH SRTS, ZMW
SVI UZXV YIRTSGVMVW FK ZG GSV GSLFTSG GSZG HSV DZH MLD GSV IRTSG
HRAV ULI TLRMT GSLFTS GSV ORGGOV WLLI RMGL GSZG OLEVOB TZIWVM.
URIHG, SLDVEVI, HSV DZRGVW ULI Z UVD NRMFGVH GL HVV RU HSV DZH
TLRMT GL HSIRMP ZMB UFIGSVI:  HSV UVOG Z ORGGOV MVIELFH ZYLFG
GSRH; `ULI RG NRTSG VMW, BLF PMLD,' HZRW ZORXV GL SVIHVOU, `RM NB
TLRMT LFG ZOGLTVGSVI, ORPV Z XZMWOV.  R DLMWVI DSZG R HSLFOW YV
ORPV GSVM?'  ZMW HSV GIRVW GL UZMXB DSZG GSV UOZNV LU Z XZMWOV RH
ORPV ZUGVI GSV XZMWOV RH YOLDM LFG, ULI HSV XLFOW MLG IVNVNYVI
VEVI SZERMT HVVM HFXS Z GSRMT.

