on going into the garden at once; but, alas for poor Alice! when
she got to the door, she found he had forgotten the little golden
key, and when she went back to the table for it, she found she
could not possibly reach it:  she could see it quite plainly
through the glass, and she tried her best to climb up one of the
legs of the table, but it was too slippery; and when she had
tired herself out with trying, the poor little thing sat down and
cried.

  `Come, there's no use in crying like that!' said Alice to
herself, rather sharply; `I advise you to leave off this minute!'
She generally gave herself very good advice, (though she very
seldom followed it), and sometimes she scolded herself so
severely as to bring tears into her eyes; and once she remembered
trying to box her own ears for having cheated herself in a game
of croquet she was playing against herself, for this curious
child was very fond of pretending to be two people.  `But it's no
use now,' thought poor Alice, `to pretend to be two people!  Why,
there's hardly enough of me left to make ONE respectable
person!'

  Soon her eye fell on a little glass box that was lying under
the table:  she opened it, and found in it a very small cake, on
which the words `EAT ME' were beautifully marked in currants.
`Well, I'll eat it,' said Alice, `and if it makes me grow larger,
I can reach the key; and if it makes me grow smaller, I can creep
under the door; so either way I'll get into the garden, and I
don't care which happens!'

  She ate a little bit, and said anxiously to herself, `Which
way?  Which way?', holding her hand on the top of her head to
feel which way it was growing, and she was quite surprised to
find that she remained the same size:  to be sure, this generally
happens when one eats cake, but Alice had got so much into the
way of expecting nothing but out-of-the-way things to happen,
that it seemed quite dull and stupid for life to go on in the
common way.

  So she set to work, and very soon finished off the cake.

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

         *       *       *       *       *       *

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *




                           XSZKGVI RR

                        GSV KLLO LU GVZIH


  `XFIRLFHVI ZMW XFIRLFHVI!' XIRVW ZORXV (HSV DZH HL NFXS
HFIKIRHVW, GSZG ULI GSV NLNVMG HSV JFRGV ULITLG SLD GL HKVZP TLLW
VMTORHS); `MLD R'N LKVMRMT LFG ORPV GSV OZITVHG GVOVHXLKV GSZG
VEVI DZH!  TLLW-YBV, UVVG!' (ULI DSVM HSV OLLPVW WLDM ZG SVI
UVVG, GSVB HVVNVW GL YV ZONLHG LFG LU HRTSG, GSVB DVIV TVGGRMT HL
UZI LUU).  `LS, NB KLLI ORGGOV UVVG, R DLMWVI DSL DROO KFG LM
BLFI HSLVH ZMW HGLXPRMTH ULI BLF MLD, WVZIH?  R'N HFIV _R_ HSZM'G
YV ZYOV!  R HSZOO YV Z TIVZG WVZO GLL UZI LUU GL GILFYOV NBHVOU
