  `What I was going to say,' said the Dodo in an offended tone,
`was, that the best thing to get us dry would be a Caucus-race.'

  `What IS a Caucus-race?' said Alice; not that she wanted much
to know, but the Dodo had paused as if it thought that SOMEBODY
ought to speak, and no one else seemed inclined to say anything.

  `Why,' said the Dodo, `the best way to explain it is to do it.'
(And, as you might like to try the thing yourself, some winter
day, I will tell you how the Dodo managed it.)

  First it marked out a race-course, in a sort of circle, (`the
exact shape doesn't matter,' it said,) and then all the party
were placed along the course, here and there.  There was no `One,
two, three, and away,' but they began running when they liked,
and left off when they liked, so that it was not easy to know
when the race was over.  However, when they had been running half
an hour or so, and were quite dry again, the Dodo suddenly called
out `The race is over!' and they all crowded round it, panting,
and asking, `But who has won?'

  This question the Dodo could not answer without a great deal of
thought, and it sat for a long time with one finger pressed upon
its forehead (the position in which you usually see Shakespeare,
in the pictures of him), while the rest waited in silence.  At
last the Dodo said, `EVERYBODY has won, and all must have
prizes.'

  `But who is to give the prizes?' quite a chorus of voices
asked.

  `Why, SHE, of course,' said the Dodo, pointing to Alice with
one finger; and the whole party at once crowded round her,
calling out in a confused way, `Prizes! Prizes!'

  Alice had no idea what to do, and in despair she put her hand
in her pocket, and pulled out a box of comfits, (luckily the salt
water had not got into it), and handed them round as prizes.
There was exactly one a-piece all round.

  `But she must have a prize herself, you know,' said the Mouse.

  `Of course,' the Dodo replied very gravely.  `What else have
you got in your pocket?' he went on, turning to Alice.

  `Only a thimble,' said Alice sadly.

  `Hand it over here,' said the Dodo.

  Then they all crowded round her once more, while the Dodo
solemnly presented the thimble, saying `We beg your acceptance of
this elegant thimble'; and, when it had finished this short
speech, they all cheered.

  Alice thought the whole thing very absurd, but they all looked
so grave that she did not dare to laugh; and, as she could not
think of anything to say, she simply bowed, and took the thimble,
looking as solemn as she could.

  The next thing was to eat the comfits:  this caused some noise
and confusion, as the large birds complained that they could not
taste theirs, and the small ones choked and had to be patted on
the back.  However, it was over at last, and they sat down again
in a ring, and begged the Mouse to tell them something more.

  `You promised to tell me your history, you know,' said Alice,
`and why it is you hate--C and D,' she added in a whisper, half
afraid that it would be offended again.

  `Mine is a long and a sad tale!' said the Mouse, turning to
Alice, and sighing.

  `It IS a long tail, certainly,' said Alice, looking down with
wonder at the Mouse's tail; `but why do you call it sad?'  And
she kept on puzzling about it while the Mouse was speaking, so
that her idea of the tale was something like this:--

                    `Fury said to a
                   mouse, That he
                 met in the
               house,
            "Let us
              both go to
                law:  I will
                  prosecute
                    BLF.  --XLNV,
                       R'OO GZPV ML
                        WVMRZO; DV
                     NFHG SZEV Z
                 GIRZO:  ULI
              IVZOOB GSRH
           NLIMRMT R'EV
          MLGSRMT
         GL WL."
           HZRW GSV
             NLFHV GL GSV
               XFI, "HFXS
                 Z GIRZO,
                   WVZI HRI,
                         DRGS
                     ML QFIB
                  LI QFWTV,
                DLFOW YV
              DZHGRMT
             LFI
              YIVZGS."
               "R'OO YV
                 QFWTV, R'OO
                   YV QFIB,"
                         HZRW
                    XFMMRMT
                      LOW UFIB:
                     "R'OO
                      GIB GSV
                         DSLOV
                          XZFHV,
                             ZMW
                        XLMWVNM
                       BLF
                      GL
                       WVZGS."'


  `BLF ZIV MLG ZGGVMWRMT!' HZRW GSV NLFHV GL ZORXV HVEVIVOB.
`DSZG ZIV BLF GSRMPRMT LU?'

  `R YVT BLFI KZIWLM,' HZRW ZORXV EVIB SFNYOB:  `BLF SZW TLG GL
GSV URUGS YVMW, R GSRMP?'

  `R SZW MLG!' XIRVW GSV NLFHV, HSZIKOB ZMW EVIB ZMTIROB.

  `Z PMLG!' HZRW ZORXV, ZODZBH IVZWB GL NZPV SVIHVOU FHVUFO, ZMW
OLLPRMT ZMCRLFHOB ZYLFG SVI.  `LS, WL OVG NV SVOK GL FMWL RG!'

  `R HSZOO WL MLGSRMT LU GSV HLIG,' HZRW GSV NLFHV, TVGGRMT FK
ZMW DZOPRMT ZDZB.  `BLF RMHFOG NV YB GZOPRMT HFXS MLMHVMHV!'

  `R WRWM'G NVZM RG!' KOVZWVW KLLI ZORXV.  `YFG BLF'IV HL VZHROB
LUUVMWVW, BLF PMLD!'

  GSV NLFHV LMOB TILDOVW RM IVKOB.

  `KOVZHV XLNV YZXP ZMW URMRHS BLFI HGLIB!' ZORXV XZOOVW ZUGVI
RG; ZMW GSV LGSVIH ZOO QLRMVW RM XSLIFH, `BVH, KOVZHV WL!' YFG
GSV NLFHV LMOB HSLLP RGH SVZW RNKZGRVMGOB, ZMW DZOPVW Z ORGGOV
JFRXPVI.

  `DSZG Z KRGB RG DLFOWM'G HGZB!' HRTSVW GSV OLIB, ZH HLLM ZH RG
DZH JFRGV LFG LU HRTSG; ZMW ZM LOW XIZY GLLP GSV LKKLIGFMRGB LU
HZBRMT GL SVI WZFTSGVI `ZS, NB WVZI!  OVG GSRH YV Z OVHHLM GL BLF
MVEVI GL OLHV BLFI GVNKVI!'  `SLOW BLFI GLMTFV, NZ!' HZRW GSV
BLFMT XIZY, Z ORGGOV HMZKKRHSOB.  `BLF'IV VMLFTS GL GIB GSV
KZGRVMXV LU ZM LBHGVI!'

  `R DRHS R SZW LFI WRMZS SVIV, R PMLD R WL!' HZRW ZORXV ZOLFW,
ZWWIVHHRMT MLYLWB RM KZIGRXFOZI.  `HSV'W HLLM UVGXS RG YZXP!'

  `ZMW DSL RH WRMZS, RU R NRTSG EVMGFIV GL ZHP GSV JFVHGRLM?'
HZRW GSV OLIB.

  ZORXV IVKORVW VZTVIOB, ULI HSV DZH ZODZBH IVZWB GL GZOP ZYLFG
SVI KVG:  `WRMZS'H LFI XZG.  ZMW HSV'H HFXS Z XZKRGZO LMV ULI
XZGXSRMT NRXV BLF XZM'G GSRMP!  ZMW LS, R DRHS BLF XLFOW HVV SVI
ZUGVI GSV YRIWH!  DSB, HSV'OO VZG Z ORGGOV YRIW ZH HLLM ZH OLLP
ZG RG!'

  GSRH HKVVXS XZFHVW Z IVNZIPZYOV HVMHZGRLM ZNLMT GSV KZIGB.
HLNV LU GSV YRIWH SFIIRVW LUU ZG LMXV:  LMV GSV LOW NZTKRV YVTZM
DIZKKRMT RGHVOU FK EVIB XZIVUFOOB, IVNZIPRMT, `R IVZOOB NFHG YV
TVGGRMT SLNV; GSV MRTSG-ZRI WLVHM'G HFRG NB GSILZG!' ZMW Z XZMZIB
XZOOVW LFG RM Z GIVNYORMT ELRXV GL RGH XSROWIVM, `XLNV ZDZB, NB
WVZIH!  RG'H SRTS GRNV BLF DVIV ZOO RM YVW!'  LM EZIRLFH KIVGVCGH
GSVB ZOO NLEVW LUU, ZMW ZORXV DZH HLLM OVUG ZOLMV.

  `R DRHS R SZWM'G NVMGRLMVW WRMZS!' HSV HZRW GL SVIHVOU RM Z
NVOZMXSLOB GLMV.  `MLYLWB HVVNH GL ORPV SVI, WLDM SVIV, ZMW R'N
HFIV HSV'H GSV YVHG XZG RM GSV DLIOW!  LS, NB WVZI WRMZS!  R
DLMWVI RU R HSZOO VEVI HVV BLF ZMB NLIV!'  ZMW SVIV KLLI ZORXV
YVTZM GL XIB ZTZRM, ULI HSV UVOG EVIB OLMVOB ZMW OLD-HKRIRGVW.
RM Z ORGGOV DSROV, SLDVEVI, HSV ZTZRM SVZIW Z ORGGOV KZGGVIRMT LU
ULLGHGVKH RM GSV WRHGZMXV, ZMW HSV OLLPVW FK VZTVIOB, SZOU SLKRMT
GSZG GSV NLFHV SZW XSZMTVW SRH NRMW, ZMW DZH XLNRMT YZXP GL
URMRHS SRH HGLIB.


