just possible it had fallen into a cucumber-frame, or something
of the sort.

  Next came an angry voice--the Rabbit's--`Pat! Pat!  Where are
you?'  And then a voice she had never heard before, `Sure then
I'm here!  Digging for apples, yer honour!'

  `Digging for apples, indeed!' said the Rabbit angrily.  `Here!
Come and help me out of THIS!'  (Sounds of more broken glass.)

  `Now tell me, Pat, what's that in the window?'

  `Sure, it's an arm, yer honour!'  (He pronounced it `arrum.')

  `An arm, you goose!   Who ever saw one that size?  Why, it
fills the whole window!'

  `Sure, it does, yer honour:  but it's an arm for all that.'

  `Well, it's got no business there, at any rate:  go and take it
away!'

  There was a long silence after this, and Alice could only hear
whispers now and then; such as, `Sure, I don't like it, yer
honour, at all, at all!'  `Do as I tell you, you coward!' and at
last she spread out her hand again, and made another snatch in
the air.  This time there were TWO little shrieks, and more
sounds of broken glass.  `What a number of cucumber-frames there
must be!' thought Alice.  `I wonder what they'll do next!  As for
pulling me out of the window, I only wish they COULD!  I'm sure I
don't want to stay in here any longer!'

  She waited for some time without hearing anything more:  at
last came a rumbling of little cartwheels, and the sound of a
good many voice all talking together:  she made out the words:
`Where's the other ladder?--Why, I hadn't to bring but one;
Bill's got the other--Bill! fetch it here, lad!--Here, put 'em up
at this corner--No, tie 'em together first--they don't reach half
high enough yet--Oh! they'll do well enough; don't be particular-
-Here, Bill! catch hold of this rope--Will the roof bear?--Mind
that loose slate--Oh, it's coming down!  Heads below!' (a loud
crash)--`Now, who did that?--It was Bill, I fancy--Who's to go
down the chimney?--Nay, I shan't! YOU do it!--That I won't,
then!--Bill's to go down--Here, Bill! the master says you're to
go down the chimney!'

  `Oh! So Bill's got to come down the chimney, has he?' said
Alice to herself.  `Shy, they seem to put everything upon Bill!
I wouldn't be in Bill's place for a good deal:  this fireplace is
narrow, to be sure; but I THINK I can kick a little!'

  She drew her foot as far down the chimney as she could, and
waited till she heard a little animal (she couldn't guess of what
sort it was) scratching and scrambling about in the chimney close
above her:  then, saying to herself `This is Bill,' she gave one
sharp kick, and waited to see what would happen next.

  The first thing she heard was a general chorus of `There goes
Bill!' then the Rabbit's voice along--`Catch him, you by the
hedge!' then silence, and then another confusion of voices--`Hold
up his head--Brandy now--Don't choke him--How was it, old fellow?
What happened to you?  Tell us all about it!'

  Last came a little feeble, squeaking voice, (`That's Bill,'
thought Alice,) `Well, I hardly know--No more, thank ye; I'm
better now--but I'm a deal too flustered to tell you--all I know
is, something comes at me like a Jack-in-the-box, and up I goes
like a sky-rocket!'

  `So you did, old fellow!' said the others.

  `We must burn the house down!' said the Rabbit's voice; and
Alice called out as loud as she could, `If you do.  I'll set
Dinah at you!'

  There was a dead silence instantly, and Alice thought to
herself, `I wonder what they WILL do next!  If they had any
sense, they'd take the roof off.'  After a minute or two, they
began moving about again, and Alice heard the Rabbit say, `A
barrowful will do, to begin with.'

  `A barrowful of WHAT?' thought Alice; but she had not long to
doubt, for the next moment a shower of little pebbles came
rattling in at the window, and some of them hit her in the face.
`I'll put a stop to this,' she said to herself, and shouted out,
`You'd better not do that again!' which produced another dead
silence.

  Alice noticed with some surprise that the pebbles were all
turning into little cakes as they lay on the floor, and a bright
idea came into her head.  `If I eat one of these cakes,' she
thought, `it's sure to make SOME change in my size; and as it
can't possibly make me larger, it must make me smaller, I
suppose.'

  So she swallowed one of the cakes, and was delighted to find
that she began shrinking directly.  As soon as she was small
enough to get through the door, she ran out of the house, and
found quite a crowd of little animals and birds waiting outside.
The poor little Lizard, Bill, was in the middle, being held up by
two guinea-pigs, who were giving it something out of a bottle.
They all made a rush at Alice the moment she appeared; but she
ran off as hard as she could, and soon found herself safe in a
thick wood.

  `The first thing I've got to do,' said Alice to herself, as she
wandered about in the wood, `is to grow to my right size again;
and the second thing is to find my way into that lovely garden.
I think that will be the best plan.'

  It sounded an excellent plan, no doubt, and very neatly and
simply arranged; the only difficulty was, that she had not the
smallest idea how to set about it; and while she was peering
about anxiously among the trees, a little sharp bark just over
her head made her look up in a great hurry.

  An enormous puppy was looking down at her with large round
eyes, and feebly stretching out one paw, trying to touch her.
`Poor little thing!' said Alice, in a coaxing tone, and she tried
hard to whistle to it; but she was terribly frightened all the
time at the thought that it might be hungry, in which case it
would be very likely to eat her up in spite of all her coaxing.

  Hardly knowing what she did, she picked up a little bit of
stick, and held it out to the puppy; whereupon the puppy jumped
into the air off all its feet at once, with a yelp of delight,
and rushed at the stick, and made believe to worry it; then Alice
dodged behind a great thistle, to keep herself from being run
over; and the moment she appeared on the other side, the puppy
made another rush at the stick, and tumbled head over heels in
its hurry to get hold of it; then Alice, thinking it was very
like having a game of play with a cart-horse, and expecting eEVIB
NLNVMG GL YV GIZNKOVW FMWVI RGH UVVG, IZM ILFMW GSV GSRHGOV
ZTZRM; GSVM GSV KFKKB YVTZM Z HVIRVH LU HSLIG XSZITVH ZG GSV
HGRXP, IFMMRMT Z EVIB ORGGOV DZB ULIDZIWH VZXS GRNV ZMW Z OLMT
DZB YZXP, ZMW YZIPRMT SLZIHVOB ZOO GSV DSROV, GROO ZG OZHG RG HZG
WLDM Z TLLW DZB LUU, KZMGRMT, DRGS RGH GLMTFV SZMTRMT LFG LU RGH
NLFGS, ZMW RGH TIVZG VBVH SZOU HSFG.

  GSRH HVVNVW GL ZORXV Z TLLW LKKLIGFMRGB ULI NZPRMT SVI VHXZKV;
HL HSV HVG LUU ZG LMXV, ZMW IZM GROO HSV DZH JFRGV GRIVW ZMW LFG
LU YIVZGS, ZMW GROO GSV KFKKB'H YZIP HLFMWVW JFRGV UZRMG RM GSV
WRHGZMXV.

  `ZMW BVG DSZG Z WVZI ORGGOV KFKKB RG DZH!' HZRW ZORXV, ZH HSV
OVZMG ZTZRMHG Z YFGGVIXFK GL IVHG SVIHVOU, ZMW UZMMVW SVIHVOU
DRGS LMV LU GSV OVZEVH:  `R HSLFOW SZEV ORPVW GVZXSRMT RG GIRXPH
EVIB NFXS, RU--RU R'W LMOB YVVM GSV IRTSG HRAV GL WL RG!  LS
WVZI!  R'W MVZIOB ULITLGGVM GSZG R'EV TLG GL TILD FK ZTZRM!  OVG
NV HVV--SLD RH RG GL YV NZMZTVW?  R HFKKLHV R LFTSG GL VZG LI
WIRMP HLNVGSRMT LI LGSVI; YFG GSV TIVZG JFVHGRLM RH, DSZG?'

  GSV TIVZG JFVHGRLM XVIGZRMOB DZH, DSZG?  ZORXV OLLPVW ZOO ILFMW
SVI ZG GSV UOLDVIH ZMW GSV YOZWVH LU TIZHH, YFG HSV WRW MLG HVV
ZMBGSRMT GSZG OLLPVW ORPV GSV IRTSG GSRMT GL VZG LI WIRMP FMWVI
GSV XRIXFNHGZMXVH.  GSVIV DZH Z OZITV NFHSILLN TILDRMT MVZI SVI,
ZYLFG GSV HZNV SVRTSG ZH SVIHVOU; ZMW DSVM HSV SZW OLLPVW FMWVI
RG, ZMW LM YLGS HRWVH LU RG, ZMW YVSRMW RG, RG LXXFIIVW GL SVI
GSZG HSV NRTSG ZH DVOO OLLP ZMW HVV DSZG DZH LM GSV GLK LU RG.

  HSV HGIVGXSVW SVIHVOU FK LM GRKGLV, ZMW KVVKVW LEVI GSV VWTV LU
GSV NFHSILLN, ZMW SVI VBVH RNNVWRZGVOB NVG GSLHV LU Z OZITV
XZGVIKROOZI, GSZG DZH HRGGRMT LM GSV GLK DRGS RGH ZINH ULOWVW,
JFRVGOB HNLPRMT Z OLMT SLLPZS, ZMW GZPRMT MLG GSV HNZOOVHG MLGRXV
LU SVI LI LU ZMBGSRMT VOHV.



                            XSZKGVI E

                    ZWERXV UILN Z XZGVIKROOZI


  GSV XZGVIKROOZI ZMW ZORXV OLLPVW ZG VZXS LGSVI ULI HLNV GRNV RM
HROVMXV:  ZG OZHG GSV XZGVIKROOZI GLLP GSV SLLPZS LFG LU RGH
NLFGS, ZMW ZWWIVHHVW SVI RM Z OZMTFRW, HOVVKB ELRXV.

  `DSL ZIV BLF?' HZRW GSV XZGVIKROOZI.

  GSRH DZH MLG ZM VMXLFIZTRMT LKVMRMT ULI Z XLMEVIHZGRLM.  ZORXV
IVKORVW, IZGSVI HSBOB, `R--R SZIWOB PMLD, HRI, QFHG ZG KIVHVMG--
ZG OVZHG R PMLD DSL R DZH DSVM R TLG FK GSRH NLIMRMT, YFG R GSRMP
R NFHG SZEV YVVM XSZMTVW HVEVIZO GRNVH HRMXV GSVM.'

  `DSZG WL BLF NVZM YB GSZG?' HZRW GSV XZGVIKROOZI HGVIMOB.
`VCKOZRM BLFIHVOU!'

  `R XZM'G VCKOZRM NBHVOU, R'N ZUIZRW, HRI' HZRW ZORXV, `YVXZFHV
R'N MLG NBHVOU, BLF HVV.'

  `R WLM'G HVV,' HZRW GSV XZGVIKROOZI.

  `R'N ZUIZRW R XZM'G KFG RG NLIV XOVZIOB,' ZORXV IVKORVW EVIB
KLORGVOB, `ULI R XZM'G FMWVIHGZMW RG NBHVOU GL YVTRM DRGS; ZMW
YVRMT HL NZMB WRUUVIVMG HRAVH RM Z WZB RH EVIB XLMUFHRMT.'
