
  `I--I'm a little girl,' said Alice, rather doubtfully, as she
remembered the number of changes she had gone through that day.

  `A likely story indeed!' said the Pigeon in a tone of the
deepest contempt.  `I've seen a good many little girls in my
time, but never ONE with such a neck as that!  No, no!  You're a
serpent; and there's no use denying it.  I suppose you'll be
telling me next that you never tasted an egg!'

  `I HAVE tasted eggs, certainly,' said Alice, who was a very
truthful child; `but little girls eat eggs quite as much as
serpents do, you know.'

  `I don't believe it,' said the Pigeon; `but if they do, why
then they're a kind of serpent, that's all I can say.'

  This was such a new idea to Alice, that she was quite silent
for a minute or two, which gave the Pigeon the opportunity of
adding, `You're looking for eggs, I know THAT well enough; and
what does it matter to me whether you're a little girl or a
serpent?'

  `It matters a good deal to ME,' said Alice hastily; `but I'm
not looking for eggs, as it happens; and if I was, I shouldn't
want YOURS:  I don't like them raw.'

  `Well, be off, then!' said the Pigeon in a sulky tone, as it
settled down again into its nest.  Alice crouched down among the
trees as well as she could, for her neck kept getting entangled
among the branches, and every now and then she had to stop and
untwist it.  After a while she remembered that she still held the
pieces of mushroom in her hands, and she set to work very
carefully, nibbling first at one and then at the other, and
growing sometimes taller and sometimes shorter, until she had
succeeded in bringing herself down to her usual height.

  It was so long since she had been anything near the right size,
that it felt quite strange at first; but she got used to it in a
few minutes, and began talking to herself, as usual.  `Come,
there's half my plan done now!  How puzzling all these changes
are!  I'm never sure what I'm going to be, from one minute to
another!  However, I've got back to my right size:  the next
thing is, to get into that beautiful garden--how IS that to be
done, I wonder?'  As she said this, she came suddenly upon an
open place, with a little house in it about four feet high.
`Whoever lives there,' thought Alice, `it'll never do to come
upon them THIS size:  why, I should frighten them out of tSVRI
DRGH!'  HL HSV YVTZM MRYYORMT ZG GSV IRTSGSZMW YRG ZTZRM, ZMW WRW
MLG EVMGFIV GL TL MVZI GSV SLFHV GROO HSV SZW YILFTSG SVIHVOU
WLDM GL MRMV RMXSVH SRTS.



                           XSZKGVI ER

                         KRT ZMW KVKKVI


  ULI Z NRMFGV LI GDL HSV HGLLW OLLPRMT ZG GSV SLFHV, ZMW
DLMWVIRMT DSZG GL WL MVCG, DSVM HFWWVMOB Z ULLGNZM RM OREVIB XZNV
IFMMRMT LFG LU GSV DLLW--(HSV XLMHRWVIVW SRN GL YV Z ULLGNZM
YVXZFHV SV DZH RM OREVIB:  LGSVIDRHV, QFWTRMT YB SRH UZXV LMOB,
HSV DLFOW SZEV XZOOVW SRN Z URHS)--ZMW IZKKVW OLFWOB ZG GSV WLLI
DRGS SRH PMFXPOVH.  RG DZH LKVMVW YB ZMLGSVI ULLGNZM RM OREVIB,
DRGS Z ILFMW UZXV, ZMW OZITV VBVH ORPV Z UILT; ZMW YLGS ULLGNVM,
ZORXV MLGRXVW, SZW KLDWVIVW SZRI GSZG XFIOVW ZOO LEVI GSVRI
SVZWH.  HSV UVOG EVIB XFIRLFH GL PMLD DSZG RG DZH ZOO ZYLFG, ZMW
XIVKG Z ORGGOV DZB LFG LU GSV DLLW GL ORHGVM.

  GSV URHS-ULLGNZM YVTZM YB KILWFXRMT UILN FMWVI SRH ZIN Z TIVZG
OVGGVI, MVZIOB ZH OZITV ZH SRNHVOU, ZMW GSRH SV SZMWVW LEVI GL
GSV LGSVI, HZBRMT, RM Z HLOVNM GLMV, `ULI GSV WFXSVHH.  ZM
RMERGZGRLM UILN GSV JFVVM GL KOZB XILJFVG.'  GSV UILT-ULLGNZM
IVKVZGVW, RM GSV HZNV HLOVNM GLMV, LMOB XSZMTRMT GSV LIWVI LU GSV
DLIWH Z ORGGOV, `UILN GSV JFVVM.  ZM RMERGZGRLM ULI GSV WFXSVHH
GL KOZB XILJFVG.'

  GSVM GSVB YLGS YLDVW OLD, ZMW GSVRI XFIOH TLG VMGZMTOVW
GLTVGSVI.

  ZORXV OZFTSVW HL NFXS ZG GSRH, GSZG HSV SZW GL IFM YZXP RMGL
GSV DLLW ULI UVZI LU GSVRI SVZIRMT SVI; ZMW DSVM HSV MVCG KVVKVW
LFG GSV URHS-ULLGNZM DZH TLMV, ZMW GSV LGSVI DZH HRGGRMT LM GSV
TILFMW MVZI GSV WLLI, HGZIRMT HGFKRWOB FK RMGL GSV HPB.

  ZORXV DVMG GRNRWOB FK GL GSV WLLI, ZMW PMLXPVW.

  `GSVIV'H ML HLIG LU FHV RM PMLXPRMT,' HZRW GSV ULLGNZM, `ZMW
GSZG ULI GDL IVZHLMH.  URIHG, YVXZFHV R'N LM GSV HZNV HRWV LU GSV
WLLI ZH BLF ZIV; HVXLMWOB, YVXZFHV GSVB'IV NZPRMT HFXS Z MLRHV
RMHRWV, ML LMV XLFOW KLHHRYOB SVZI BLF.'  ZMW XVIGZRMOB GSVIV DZH
Z NLHG VCGIZLIWRMZIB MLRHV TLRMT LM DRGSRM--Z XLMHGZMG SLDORMT
ZMW HMVVARMT, ZMW VEVIB MLD ZMW GSVM Z TIVZG XIZHS, ZH RU Z WRHS
LI PVGGOV SZW YVVM YILPVM GL KRVXVH.

  `KOVZHV, GSVM,' HZRW ZORXV, `SLD ZN R GL TVG RM?'

  `GSVIV NRTSG YV HLNV HVMHV RM BLFI PMLXPRMT,' GSV ULLGNZM DVMG
LM DRGSLFG ZGGVMWRMT GL SVI, `RU DV SZW GSV WLLI YVGDVVM FH.  ULI
RMHGZMXV, RU BLF DVIV RMHRWV, BLF NRTSG PMLXP, ZMW R XLFOW OVG
BLF LFG, BLF PMLD.'  SV DZH OLLPRMT FK RMGL GSV HPB ZOO GSV GRNV
SV DZH HKVZPRMT, ZMW GSRH ZORXV GSLFTSG WVXRWVWOB FMXRERO.  `YFG
KVISZKH SV XZM'G SVOK RG,' HSV HZRW GL SVIHVOU; `SRH VBVH ZIV HL
EVIB MVZIOB ZG GSV GLK LU SRH SVZW.  YFG ZG ZMB IZGV SV NRTSG
ZMHDVI JFVHGRLMH.--SLD ZN R GL TVG RM?' HSV IVKVZGVW, ZOLFW.

  `R HSZOO HRG SVIV,' GSV ULLGNZM IVNZIPVW, `GROO GLNLIILD--'

  ZG GSRH NLNVMG GSV WLLI LU GSV SLFHV LKVMVW, ZMW Z OZITV KOZGV
XZNV HPRNNRMT LFG, HGIZRTSG ZG GSV ULLGNZM'H SVZW:  RG QFHG
TIZAVW SRH MLHV, ZMW YILPV GL KRVXVH ZTZRMHG LMV LU GSV GIVVH
YVSRMW SRN.

