again:--

  `I didn't know that Cheshire cats always grinned; in fact, I
didn't know that cats COULD grin.'

  `They all can,' said the Duchess; `and most of 'em do.'

  `I don't know of any that do,' Alice said very politely,
feeling quite pleased to have got into a conversation.

  `You don't know much,' said the Duchess; `and that's a fact.'

  Alice did not at all like the tone of this remark, and thought
it would be as well to introduce some other subject of
conversation.  While she was trying to fix on one, the cook took
the cauldron of soup off the fire, and at once set to work
throwing everything within her reach at the Duchess and the baby
--the fire-irons came first; then followed a shower of saucepans,
plates, and dishes.  The Duchess took no notice of them even when
they hit her; and the baby was howling so much already, that it
was quite impossible to say whether the blows hurt it or not.

  `Oh, PLEASE mind what you're doing!' cried Alice, jumping up
and down in an agony of terror.  `Oh, there goes his PRECIOUS
nose'; as an unusually large saucepan flew close by it, and very
nearly carried it off.

  `If everybody minded their own business,' the Duchess said in a
hoarse growl, `the world would go round a deal faster than it
does.'

  `Which would NOT be an advantage,' said Alice, who felt very
glad to get an opportunity of showing off a little of her
knowledge.  `Just think of what work it would make with the day
and night!  You see the earth takes twenty-four hours to turn
round on its axis--'

  `Talking of axes,' said the Duchess, `chop off her head!'

  Alice glanced rather anxiously at the cook, to see if she meant
to take the hint; but the cook was busily stirring the soup, and
seemed not to be listening, so she went on again:  `Twenty-four
hours, I THINK; or is it twelve?  I--'

  `Oh, don't bother ME,' said the Duchess; `I never could abide
figures!'  And with that she began nursing her child again,
singing a sort of lullaby to it as she did so, and giving it a
violent shake at the end of every line:

        `Speak roughly to your little boy,
          And beat him when he sneezes:
        He only does it to annoy,
          Because he knows it teases.'

                    CHORUS.

    (In which the cook and the baby joined):--

                `Wow! wow! wow!'

  While the Duchess sang the second verse of the song, she kept
tossing the baby violently up and down, and the poor little thing
howled so, that Alice could hardly hear the words:--

        `I speak severely to my boy,
          I beat him when he sneezes;
        For he can thoroughly enjoy
          The pepper when he pleases!'

                    CHORUS.

                `Wow! wow! wow!'

  `Here! you may nurse it a bit, if you like!' the Duchess said
to Alice, flinging the baby at her as she spoke.  `I must go and
get ready to play croquet with the Queen,' and she hurried out of
the room.  The cook threw a frying-pan after her as she went out,
but it just missed her.

  Alice caught the baby with some difficulty, as it was a queer-
shaped little creature, and held out its arms and legs in all
directions, `just like a star-fish,' thought Alice.  The poor
little thing was snorting like a steam-engine when she caught it,
and kept doubling itself up and straightening itself out again,
so that altogether, for the first minute or two, it was as much
as she could do to hold it.

  As soon as she had made out the proper way of nursing it,
(which was to twist it up into a sort of knot, and then keep
tight hold of its right ear and left foot, so as to prevent its
undoing itself,) she carried it out into the open air.  `IF I
don't take this child away with me,' thought Alice, `they're sure
to kill it in a day or two:  wouldn't it be murder to leave it
behind?'  She said the last words out loud, and the little thing
grunted in reply (it had left off sneezing by this time).  `Don't
grunt,' said Alice; `that's not at all a proper way of expressing
yourself.'

  The baby grunted again, and Alice looked very anxiously into
its face to see what was the matter with it.  There could be no
doubt that it had a VERY turn-up nose, much more like a snout
than a real nose; also its eyes were getting extremely small for
a baby:  altogether Alice did not like the look of the thing at
all.  `But perhaps it was only sobbing,' she thought, and looked
into its eyes again, to see if there were any tears.

  No, there were no tears.  `If you're going to turn into a pig,
my dear,' said Alice, seriously, `I'll have nothing more to do
with you.  Mind now!'  The poor little thing sobbed again (or
grunted, it was impossible to say which), and they went on for
some while in silence.

  Alice was just beginning to think to herself, `Now, what am I
to do with this creature when I get it home?' when it grunted
again, so violently, that she looked down into its face in some
alarm.  This time there could be NO mistake about it:  it was
neither more nor less than a pig, and she felt that it would be
quite absurd for her to carry it further.

  So she set the little creature down, and felt quite relieved to
see it trot away quietly into the wood.  `If it had grown up,'
she said to herself, `it would have made a dreadfully ugly child:
but it makes rather a handsome pig, I think.'  And she began
thinking over other children she knew, who might do very well as
pigs, and was just saying to herself, `if one only knew the right
way to change them--' when she was a litGOV HGZIGOVW YB HVVRMT
GSV XSVHSRIV XZG HRGGRMT LM Z YLFTS LU Z GIVV Z UVD BZIWH LUU.

  GSV XZG LMOB TIRMMVW DSVM RG HZD ZORXV.  RG OLLPVW TLLW-
MZGFIVW, HSV GSLFTSG:  HGROO RG SZW EVIB OLMT XOZDH ZMW Z TIVZG
NZMB GVVGS, HL HSV UVOG GSZG RG LFTSG GL YV GIVZGVW DRGS IVHKVXG.

  `XSVHSRIV KFHH,' HSV YVTZM, IZGSVI GRNRWOB, ZH HSV WRW MLG ZG
ZOO PMLD DSVGSVI RG DLFOW ORPV GSV MZNV:  SLDVEVI, RG LMOB
TIRMMVW Z ORGGOV DRWVI.  `XLNV, RG'H KOVZHVW HL UZI,' GSLFTSG
ZORXV, ZMW HSV DVMG LM.  `DLFOW BLF GVOO NV, KOVZHV, DSRXS DZB R
LFTSG GL TL UILN SVIV?'

  `GSZG WVKVMWH Z TLLW WVZO LM DSVIV BLF DZMG GL TVG GL,' HZRW
GSV XZG.

  `R WLM'G NFXS XZIV DSVIV--' HZRW ZORXV.

  `GSVM RG WLVHM'G NZGGVI DSRXS DZB BLF TL,' HZRW GSV XZG.

  `--HL OLMT ZH R TVG HLNVDSVIV,' ZORXV ZWWVW ZH ZM VCKOZMZGRLM.

  `LS, BLF'IV HFIV GL WL GSZG,' HZRW GSV XZG, `RU BLF LMOB DZOP
OLMT VMLFTS.'

  ZORXV UVOG GSZG GSRH XLFOW MLG YV WVMRVW, HL HSV GIRVW ZMLGSVI
JFVHGRLM.  `DSZG HLIG LU KVLKOV OREV ZYLFG SVIV?'

  `RM GSZG WRIVXGRLM,' GSV XZG HZRW, DZERMT RGH IRTSG KZD ILFMW,
`OREVH Z SZGGVI:  ZMW RM GSZG WRIVXGRLM,' DZERMT GSV LGSVI KZD,
`OREVH Z NZIXS SZIV.  ERHRG VRGSVI BLF ORPV:  GSVB'IV YLGS NZW.'

  `YFG R WLM'G DZMG GL TL ZNLMT NZW KVLKOV,' ZORXV IVNZIPVW.

  `LS, BLF XZM'G SVOK GSZG,' HZRW GSV XZG:  `DV'IV ZOO NZW SVIV.
R'N NZW.  BLF'IV NZW.'

  `SLD WL BLF PMLD R'N NZW?' HZRW ZORXV.

