  She had not gone much farther before she came in sight of the
house of the March Hare:  she thought it must be the right house,
because the chimneys were shaped like ears and the roof was
thatched with fur.  It was so large a house, that she did not
like to go nearer till she had nibbled some more of the lefthand
bit of mushroom, and raised herself to about two feet high:  even
then she walked up towards it rather timidly, saying to herself
`Suppose it should be raving mad after all!  I almost wish I'd
gone to see the Hatter instead!'



                           CHAPTER VII

                         A Mad Tea-Party


  There was a table set out under a tree in front of the house,
and the March Hare and the Hatter were having tea at it:  a
Dormouse was sitting between them, fast asleep, and the other two
were using it as a cushion, resting their elbows on it, and the
talking over its head.  `Very uncomfortable for the Dormouse,'
thought Alice; `only, as it's asleep, I suppose it doesn't mind.'

  The table was a large one, but the three were all crowded
together at one corner of it:  `No room!  No room!' they cried
out when they saw Alice coming.  `There's PLENTY of room!' said
Alice indignantly, and she sat down in a large arm-chair at one
end of the table.

  `Have some wine,' the March Hare said in an encouraging tone.

  Alice looked aOO ILFMW GSV GZYOV, YFG GSVIV DZH MLGSRMT LM RG
YFG GVZ.  `R WLM'G HVV ZMB DRMV,' HSV IVNZIPVW.

  `GSVIV RHM'G ZMB,' HZRW GSV NZIXS SZIV.

  `GSVM RG DZHM'G EVIB XRERO LU BLF GL LUUVI RG,' HZRW ZORXV
ZMTIROB.

  `RG DZHM'G EVIB XRERO LU BLF GL HRG WLDM DRGSLFG YVRMT
RMERGVW,' HZRW GSV NZIXS SZIV.

  `R WRWM'G PMLD RG DZH BLFI GZYOV,' HZRW ZORXV; `RG'H OZRW ULI Z
TIVZG NZMB NLIV GSZM GSIVV.'

  `BLFI SZRI DZMGH XFGGRMT,' HZRW GSV SZGGVI.  SV SZW YVVM
