his first speech.

  `You should learn not to make personal remarks,' Alice said
with some severity; `it's very rude.'

  The Hatter opened his eyes very wide on hearing this; but all
he SAID was, `Why is a raven like a writing-desk?'

  `Come, we shall have some fun now!' thought Alice.  `I'm glad
they've begun asking riddles.--I believe I can guess that,' she
added aloud.

  `Do you mean that you think you can find out the answer to it?'
said the March Hare.

  `Exactly so,' said Alice.

  `Then you should say what you mean,' the March Hare went on.

  `I do,' Alice hastily replied; `at least--at least I mean what
I say--that's the same thing, you know.'

  `Not the same thing a bit!' said the Hatter.  `You might just
as well say that "I see what I eat" is the same thing as "I eat
what I see"!'

  `You might just as well say,' added the March Hare, `that "I
like what I get" is the same thing as "I get what I like"!'

  `You might just as well say,' added the Dormouse, who seemed to
be talking in his sleep, `that "I breathe when I sleep" is the
same thing as "I sleep when I breathe"!'

  `It IS the same thing with you,' said the Hatter, and here the
conversation dropped, and the party sat silent for a minute,
while Alice thought over all she could remember about ravens and
writing-desks, which wasn't much.

  The Hatter was the first to break the silence.  `What day of
the month is it?' he said, turning to Alice:  he had taken his
watch out of his pocket, and was looking at it uneasily, shaking
it every now and then, and holding it to his ear.

  Alice considered a little, and then said `The fourth.'

  `Two days wrong!' sighed the Hatter.  `I told you butter
wouldn't suit the works!' he added looking angrily at the March
Hare.

  `It was the BEST butter,' the March Hare meekly replied.

  `Yes, but some crumbs must have got in as well,' the Hatter
grumbled:  `you shouldn't have put it in with the bread-knife.'

  The March Hare took the watch and looked at it gloomily:  then
he dipped it into his cup of tea, and looked at it again:  but he
could think of nothing better to say than his first remark, `It
was the BEST butter, you know.'

  Alice had been looking over his shoulder with some curiosity.
`What a funny watch!' she remarked.  `It tells the day of the
month, and doesn't tell what o'clock it is!'

  `Why should it?' muttered the Hatter.  `Does YOUR watch tell
you what year it is?'

  `Of course not,' Alice replied very readily:  `but that's
because it stays the same year for such a long time together.'

  `Which is just the case with MINE,' said the Hatter.

  Alice felt dreadfully puzzled.  The Hatter's remark seemed to
have no sort of meaning in it, and yet it was certainly English.
`I don't quite understand you,' she said, as politely as she
could.

  `The Dormouse is asleep again,' said the Hatter, and he poured
a little hot tea upon its nose.

  The Dormouse shook its head impatiently, and said, without
opening its eyes, `Of course, of course; just what I was going to
remark myself.'

  `Have you guessed the riddle yet?' the Hatter said, turning to
Alice again.

  `No, I give it up,' Alice replied:  `what's the answer?'

  `I haven't the slightest idea,' said the Hatter.

  `Nor I,' said the March Hare.

  Alice sighed wearily.  `I think you might do something better
with the time,' she said, `than waste it in asking riddles that
have no answers.'

  `If you knew Time as well as I do,' said the Hatter, `you
wouldn't talk about wasting IT.  It's HIM.'

  `I don't know what you mean,' said Alice.

  `Of course you don't!' the Hatter said, tossing his head
contemptuously.  `I dare say you never even spoke GL GRNV!'

  `KVISZKH MLG,' ZORXV XZFGRLFHOB IVKORVW:  `YFG R PMLD R SZEV GL
YVZG GRNV DSVM R OVZIM NFHRX.'

  `ZS! GSZG ZXXLFMGH ULI RG,' HZRW GSV SZGGVI.  `SV DLM'G HGZMW
YVZGRMT.  MLD, RU BLF LMOB PVKG LM TLLW GVINH DRGS SRN, SV'W WL
ZONLHG ZMBGSRMT BLF ORPVW DRGS GSV XOLXP.  ULI RMHGZMXV, HFKKLHV
RG DVIV MRMV L'XOLXP RM GSV NLIMRMT, QFHG GRNV GL YVTRM OVHHLMH:
BLF'W LMOB SZEV GL DSRHKVI Z SRMG GL GRNV, ZMW ILFMW TLVH GSV
XOLXP RM Z GDRMPORMT!  SZOU-KZHG LMV, GRNV ULI WRMMVI!'

  (`R LMOB DRHS RG DZH,' GSV NZIXS SZIV HZRW GL RGHVOU RM Z
DSRHKVI.)

  `GSZG DLFOW YV TIZMW, XVIGZRMOB,' HZRW ZORXV GSLFTSGUFOOB:
`YFG GSVM--R HSLFOWM'G YV SFMTIB ULI RG, BLF PMLD.'

  `MLG ZG URIHG, KVISZKH,' HZRW GSV SZGGVI:  `YFG BLF XLFOW PVVK
RG GL SZOU-KZHG LMV ZH OLMT ZH BLF ORPVW.'

  `RH GSZG GSV DZB BLF NZMZTV?' ZORXV ZHPVW.

  GSV SZGGVI HSLLP SRH SVZW NLFIMUFOOB.  `MLG R!' SV IVKORVW.
`DV JFZIIVOOVW OZHG NZIXS--QFHG YVULIV SV DVMG NZW, BLF PMLD--'
(KLRMGRMT DRGS SRH GVZ HKLLM ZG GSV NZIXS SZIV,) `--RG DZH ZG GSV
TIVZG XLMXVIG TREVM YB GSV JFVVM LU SVZIGH, ZMW R SZW GL HRMT

            "GDRMPOV, GDRMPOV, ORGGOV YZG!
            SLD R DLMWVI DSZG BLF'IV ZG!"

BLF PMLD GSV HLMT, KVISZKH?'

  `R'EV SVZIW HLNVGSRMT ORPV RG,' HZRW ZORXV.

  `RG TLVH LM, BLF PMLD,' GSV SZGGVI XLMGRMFVW, `RM GSRH DZB:--

            "FK ZYLEV GSV DLIOW BLF UOB,
            ORPV Z GVZ-GIZB RM GSV HPB.
                    GDRMPOV, GDRMPOV--"'

SVIV GSV WLINLFHV HSLLP RGHVOU, ZMW YVTZM HRMTRMT RM RGH HOVVK
`GDRMPOV, GDRMPOV, GDRMPOV, GDRMPOV--' ZMW DVMG LM HL OLMT GSZG
GSVB SZW GL KRMXS RG GL NZPV RG HGLK.

  `DVOO, R'W SZIWOB URMRHSVW GSV URIHG EVIHV,' HZRW GSV SZGGVI,
`DSVM GSV JFVVM QFNKVW FK ZMW YZDOVW LFG, "SV'H NFIWVIRMT GSV
GRNV!  LUU DRGS SRH SVZW!"'

  `SLD WIVZWUFOOB HZEZTV!' VCXOZRNVW ZORXV.

  `ZMW VEVI HRMXV GSZG,' GSV SZGGVI DVMG LM RM Z NLFIMUFO GLMV,
`SV DLM'G WL Z GSRMT R ZHP!  RG'H ZODZBH HRC L'XOLXP MLD.'

  Z YIRTSG RWVZ XZNV RMGL ZORXV'H SVZW.  `RH GSZG GSV IVZHLM HL
NZMB GVZ-GSRMTH ZIV KFG LFG SVIV?' HSV ZHPVW.

  `BVH, GSZG'H RG,' HZRW GSV SZGGVI DRGS Z HRTS:  `RG'H ZODZBH
GVZ-GRNV, ZMW DV'EV ML GRNV GL DZHS GSV GSRMTH YVGDVVM DSROVH.'

  `GSVM BLF PVVK NLERMT ILFMW, R HFKKLHV?' HZRW ZORXV.

  `VCZXGOB HL,' HZRW GSV SZGGVI:  `ZH GSV GSRMTH TVG FHVW FK.'

  `YFG DSZG SZKKVMH DSVM BLF XLNV GL GSV YVTRMMRMT ZTZRM?' ZORXV
EVMGFIVW GL ZHP.

  `HFKKLHV DV XSZMTV GSV HFYQVXG,' GSV NZIXS SZIV RMGVIIFKGVW,
BZDMRMT.  `R'N TVGGRMT GRIVW LU GSRH.  R ELGV GSV BLFMT OZWB
GVOOH FH Z HGLIB.'

  `R'N ZUIZRW R WLM'G PMLD LMV,' HZRW ZORXV, IZGSVI ZOZINVW ZG
GSV KILKLHZO.

  `GSVM GSV WLINLFHV HSZOO!' GSVB YLGS XIRVW.  `DZPV FK,
WLINLFHV!'  ZMW GSVB KRMXSVW RG LM YLGS HRWVH ZG LMXV.

  GSV WLINLFHV HOLDOB LKVMVW SRH VBVH.  `R DZHM'G ZHOVVK,' SV
HZRW RM Z SLZIHV, UVVYOV ELRXV:  `R SVZIW VEVIB DLIW BLF UVOOLDH
DVIV HZBRMT.'

  `GVOO FH Z HGLIB!' HZRW GSV NZIXS SZIV.

  `BVH, KOVZHV WL!' KOVZWVW ZORXV.

  `ZMW YV JFRXP ZYLFG RG,' ZWWVW GSV SZGGVI, `LI BLF'OO YV ZHOVVK
ZTZRM YVULIV RG'H WLMV.'

