  `Of course it is,' said the Duchess, who seemed ready to agree
to everything that Alice said; `there's a large mustard-mine near
here.  And the moral of that is--"The more there is of mine, the
less there is of yours."'

  `Oh, I know!' exclaimed Alice, who had not attended to this
last remark, `it's a vegetable.  It doesn't look like one, but it
is.'

  `I quite agree with you,' said the Duchess; `and the moral of
that is--"Be what you would seem to be"--or if you'd like it put
more simply--"Never imagine yourself not to be otherwise than
what it might appear to others that what you were or might have
been was not otherwise than what you had been would have appeared
to them to be otherwise."'

  `I think I should understand that better,' Alice said very
politely, `if I had it written down:  but I can't quite follow it
as you say it.'

  `That's nothing to what I could say if I chose,' the Duchess
replied, in a pleased tone.

  `Pray don't trouble yourself to say it any longer than that,'
said Alice.

  `Oh, don't talk about trouble!' said the Duchess.  `I make you
a present of everything I've said as yet.'

  `A cheap sort of present!' thought Alice.  `I'm glad they don't
give birthday presents like that!'  But she did not venture to
say it out loud.

  `Thinking again?' the Duchess asked, with another dig of her
sharp little chin.

  `I've a right to think,' said Alice sharply, for she was
beginning to feel a little worried.

  `Just about as much right,' said the Duchess, `as pigs have to
fly; and the m--'

  But here, to Alice's great surprise, the Duchess's voice died
away, even in the middle of her favourite word `moral,' and the
arm that was linked into hers began to tremble.  Alice looked up,
and there stood the Queen in front of them, with her arms folded,
frowning like a thunderstorm.

  `A fine day, your Majesty!' the Duchess began in a low, weak
voice.

  `Now, I give you fair warning,' shouted the Queen, stamping on
the ground as she spoke; `either you or your head must be off,
and that in about half no time!  Take your choice!'

  The Duchess took her choice, and was gone in a moment.

  `Let's go on with the game,' the Queen said to Alice; and Alice
was too much frightened to say a word, but slowly followed her
back to the croquet-ground.

  The other guests had taken advantage of the Queen's absence,
and were resting in the shade:  however, the moment they saw her,
they hurried back to the game, the Queen merely remarking that a
moment's delay would cost them their lives.

  All the time they were playing the Queen never left off
quarrelling with the other players, and shouting `Off with his
head!' or `Off with her head!'  Those whom she sentenced were
taken into custody by the soldiers, who of course had to leave
off being arches to do this, so that by the end of half an hour
or so there were no arches left, and all the players, except the
King, the Queen, and Alice, were in custody and under sentence of
execution.

  Then the Queen left off, quite out of breath, and said to
Alice, `Have you seen the Mock Turtle yet?'

  `No,' said Alice.  `I don't even know what a Mock Turtle is.'

  `It's the thing Mock Turtle Soup is made from,' said the Queen.

  `I never saw one, or heard of one,' said Alice.

  `Come on, then,' said the Queen, `and he shall tell you his
history,'

  As they walked off together, Alice heard the King say in a low
voice, to the company generally, `You are all pardoned.'  `Come,
THAT'S a good thing!' she said to herself, for she had felt quite
unhappy at the number of executions the Queen had ordered.

  They very soon came upon a Gryphon, lying fast asleep in the
sun.  (IF you don't know what a Gryphon is, look at the picture.)
`Up, lazy thing!' said the Queen, `and take this young lady to
see the Mock GFIGOV, ZMW GL SVZI SRH SRHGLIB.  R NFHG TL YZXP ZMW
HVV ZUGVI HLNV VCVXFGRLMH R SZEV LIWVIVW'; ZMW HSV DZOPVW LUU,
OVZERMT ZORXV ZOLMV DRGS GSV TIBKSLM.  ZORXV WRW MLG JFRGV ORPV
GSV OLLP LU GSV XIVZGFIV, YFG LM GSV DSLOV HSV GSLFTSG RG DLFOW
YV JFRGV ZH HZUV GL HGZB DRGS RG ZH GL TL ZUGVI GSZG HZEZTV
JFVVM:  HL HSV DZRGVW.

  GSV TIBKSLM HZG FK ZMW IFYYVW RGH VBVH:  GSVM RG DZGXSVW GSV
JFVVM GROO HSV DZH LFG LU HRTSG:  GSVM RG XSFXPOVW.  `DSZG UFM!'
HZRW GSV TIBKSLM, SZOU GL RGHVOU, SZOU GL ZORXV.

  `DSZG RH GSV UFM?' HZRW ZORXV.

  `DSB, HSV,' HZRW GSV TIBKSLM.  `RG'H ZOO SVI UZMXB, GSZG:  GSVB
MVEVI VCVXFGVH MLYLWB, BLF PMLD.  XLNV LM!'

  `VEVIBYLWB HZBH "XLNV LM!" SVIV,' GSLFTSG ZORXV, ZH HSV DVMG
HOLDOB ZUGVI RG:  `R MVEVI DZH HL LIWVIVW ZYLFG RM ZOO NB ORUV,
MVEVI!'

  GSVB SZW MLG TLMV UZI YVULIV GSVB HZD GSV NLXP GFIGOV RM GSV
WRHGZMXV, HRGGRMT HZW ZMW OLMVOB LM Z ORGGOV OVWTV LU ILXP, ZMW,
ZH GSVB XZNV MVZIVI, ZORXV XLFOW SVZI SRN HRTSRMT ZH RU SRH SVZIG
DLFOW YIVZP.  HSV KRGRVW SRN WVVKOB.  `DSZG RH SRH HLIILD?' HSV
ZHPVW GSV TIBKSLM, ZMW GSV TIBKSLM ZMHDVIVW, EVIB MVZIOB RM GSV
HZNV DLIWH ZH YVULIV, `RG'H ZOO SRH UZMXB, GSZG:  SV SZHM'G TLG
ML HLIILD, BLF PMLD.  XLNV LM!'

  HL GSVB DVMG FK GL GSV NLXP GFIGOV, DSL OLLPVW ZG GSVN DRGS
OZITV VBVH UFOO LU GVZIH, YFG HZRW MLGSRMT.

  `GSRH SVIV BLFMT OZWB,' HZRW GSV TIBKSLM, `HSV DZMGH ULI GL
PMLD BLFI SRHGLIB, HSV WL.'

  `R'OO GVOO RG SVI,' HZRW GSV NLXP GFIGOV RM Z WVVK, SLOOLD
GLMV:  `HRG WLDM, YLGS LU BLF, ZMW WLM'G HKVZP Z DLIW GROO R'EV
URMRHSVW.'

  HL GSVB HZG WLDM, ZMW MLYLWB HKLPV ULI HLNV NRMFGVH.  ZORXV
GSLFTSG GL SVIHVOU, `R WLM'G HVV SLD SV XZM VEVM URMRHS, RU SV
WLVHM'G YVTRM.'  YFG HSV DZRGVW KZGRVMGOB.

  `LMXV,' HZRW GSV NLXP GFIGOV ZG OZHG, DRGS Z WVVK HRTS, `R DZH
Z IVZO GFIGOV.'

  GSVHV DLIWH DVIV ULOOLDVW YB Z EVIB OLMT HROVMXV, YILPVM LMOB
YB ZM LXXZHRLMZO VCXOZNZGRLM LU `SQXPIIS!' UILN GSV TIBKSLM, ZMW
GSV XLMHGZMG SVZEB HLYYRMT LU GSV NLXP GFIGOV.  ZORXV DZH EVIB
MVZIOB TVGGRMT FK ZMW HZBRMT, `GSZMP BLF, HRI, ULI BLFI
RMGVIVHGRMT HGLIB,' YFG HSV XLFOW MLG SVOK GSRMPRMT GSVIV NFHG YV
NLIV GL XLNV, HL HSV HZG HGROO ZMW HZRW MLGSRMT.

  `DSVM DV DVIV ORGGOV,' GSV NLXP GFIGOV DVMG LM ZG OZHG, NLIV
XZONOB, GSLFTS HGROO HLYYRMT Z ORGGOV MLD ZMW GSVM, `DV DVMG GL
HXSLLO RM GSV HVZ.  GSV NZHGVI DZH ZM LOW GFIGOV--DV FHVW GL XZOO
SRN GLIGLRHV--'

  `DSB WRW BLF XZOO SRN GLIGLRHV, RU SV DZHM'G LMV?' ZORXV ZHPVW.

  `DV XZOOVW SRN GLIGLRHV YVXZFHV SV GZFTSG FH,' HZRW GSV NLXP
GFIGOV ZMTIROB:  `IVZOOB BLF ZIV EVIB WFOO!'
