  `It's a pun!' the King added in an offended tone, and
everybody laughed, `Let the jury consider their verdict,' the
King said, for about the twentieth time that day.

  `No, no!' said the Queen.  `Sentence first--verdict afterwards.'

  `Stuff and nonsense!' said Alice loudly.  `The idea of having
the sentence first!'

  `Hold your tongue!' said the Queen, turning purple.

  `I won't!' said Alice.

  `Off with her head!' the Queen shouted at the top of her voice.
Nobody moved.

  `Who cares for you?' said Alice, (she had grown to her full
size by this time.)  `You're nothing but a pack of cards!'

  At this the whole pack rose up into the air, and came flying
down upon her:  she gave a little scream, half of fright and half
of anger, and tried to beat them off, and found herself lying on
the bank, with her head in the lap of her sister, who was gently
brushing away some dead leaves that had fluttered down from the
trees upon her face.

  `Wake up, Alice dear!' said her sister; `Why, what a long
sleep you've had!'

  `Oh, I've had such a curious dream!' said Alice, and she told
her sister, as well as she could remember them, all these strange
Adventures of hers that you have just been reading about; and
when she had finished, her sister kissed her, and said, `It WAS a
curious dream, dear, certainly:  but now run in to your tea; it's
getting late.'  So Alice got up and ran off, thinking while she
ran, as well she might, what a wonderful dream it had been.

  But her sister sat still just as she left her, leaning her
head on her hand, watching the setting sun, and thinking of
little Alice and all her wonderful Adventures, till she too began
dreaming after a fashion, and this was her dream:--

  First, she dreamed of little Alice herself, and once again the
tiny hands were clasped upon her knee, and the bright eager eyes
were looking up into hers--she could hear the very tones of her
voice, and see that queer little toss of her head to keep back
the wandering hair that WOULD always get into her eyes--and
still as she listened, or seemed to listen, the whole place
around her became alive the strange creatures of her little
sister's dream.

  The long grass rustled at heI UVVG ZH GSV DSRGV IZYYRG SFIIRVW
YB--GSV UIRTSGVMVW NLFHV HKOZHSVW SRH DZB GSILFTS GSV
MVRTSYLFIRMT KLLO--HSV XLFOW SVZI GSV IZGGOV LU GSV GVZXFKH ZH
GSV NZIXS SZIV ZMW SRH UIRVMWH HSZIVW GSVRI MVEVI-VMWRMT NVZO,
ZMW GSV HSIROO ELRXV LU GSV JFVVM LIWVIRMT LUU SVI FMULIGFMZGV
TFVHGH GL VCVXFGRLM--LMXV NLIV GSV KRT-YZYB DZH HMVVARMT LM GSV
WFXSVHH'H PMVV, DSROV KOZGVH ZMW WRHSVH XIZHSVW ZILFMW RG--LMXV
NLIV GSV HSIRVP LU GSV TIBKSLM, GSV HJFVZPRMT LU GSV ORAZIW'H
HOZGV-KVMXRO, ZMW GSV XSLPRMT LU GSV HFKKIVHHVW TFRMVZ-KRTH,
UROOVW GSV ZRI, NRCVW FK DRGS GSV WRHGZMG HLYH LU GSV NRHVIZYOV
NLXP GFIGOV.

  HL HSV HZG LM, DRGS XOLHVW VBVH, ZMW SZOU YVORVEVW SVIHVOU RM
DLMWVIOZMW, GSLFTS HSV PMVD HSV SZW YFG GL LKVM GSVN ZTZRM, ZMW
ZOO DLFOW XSZMTV GL WFOO IVZORGB--GSV TIZHH DLFOW YV LMOB
IFHGORMT RM GSV DRMW, ZMW GSV KLLO IRKKORMT GL GSV DZERMT LU GSV
IVVWH--GSV IZGGORMT GVZXFKH DLFOW XSZMTV GL GRMPORMT HSVVK-
YVOOH, ZMW GSV JFVVM'H HSIROO XIRVH GL GSV ELRXV LU GSV HSVKSVIW
YLB--ZMW GSV HMVVAV LU GSV YZYB, GSV HSIRVP LU GSV TIBKSLM, ZMW
ZOO GSB LGSVI JFVVI MLRHVH, DLFOW XSZMTV (HSV PMVD) GL GSV
XLMUFHVW XOZNLFI LU GSV YFHB UZIN-BZIW--DSROV GSV OLDRMT LU GSV
XZGGOV RM GSV WRHGZMXV DLFOW GZPV GSV KOZXV LU GSV NLXP GFIGOV'H
SVZEB HLYH.

  OZHGOB, HSV KRXGFIVW GL SVIHVOU SLD GSRH HZNV ORGGOV HRHGVI LU
SVIH DLFOW, RM GSV ZUGVI-GRNV, YV SVIHVOU Z TILDM DLNZM; ZMW SLD
HSV DLFOW PVVK, GSILFTS ZOO SVI IRKVI BVZIH, GSV HRNKOV ZMW
OLERMT SVZIG LU SVI XSROWSLLW:  ZMW SLD HSV DLFOW TZGSVI ZYLFG
SVI LGSVI ORGGOV XSROWIVM, ZMW NZPV GSVRI VBVH YIRTSG ZMW VZTVI
DRGS NZMB Z HGIZMTV GZOV, KVISZKH VEVM DRGS GSV WIVZN LU
DLMWVIOZMW LU OLMT ZTL:  ZMW SLD HSV DLFOW UVVO DRGS ZOO GSVRI
HRNKOV HLIILDH, ZMW URMW Z KOVZHFIV RM ZOO GSVRI HRNKOV QLBH,
IVNVNYVIRMT SVI LDM XSROW-ORUV, ZMW GSV SZKKB HFNNVI WZBH.

                             GSV VMW
	ZH BLF ORPV RG


	WIZNZGRH KVIHLMZV


WFPV HVMRLI	ORERMT RM YZMRHSNVMG.

WFPV UIVWVIRXP	SRH YILGSVI, ZM FHFIKVI LU SRH WLNRMRLMH.


ZNRVMH	|
	|  OLIWH ZGGVMWRMT LM GSV YZMRHSVW WFPV.
QZJFVH	|


OV YVZF	Z XLFIGRVI ZGGVMWRMT FKLM UIVWVIRXP.

XSZIOVH	DIVHGOVI GL UIVWVIRXP.


LOREVI		|
		|
QZJFVH (QZJFVH WV YLBH:)  	|  HLMH LU HRI ILDOZMW WV YLBH.
		|
LIOZMWL		|
