
From AM's emphasis followed the questions with which the Workshop began:
who will use these materials, and in what form will they wish to use
them.  But an even larger issue deserving mention, in GIFFORD's view, was
the phenomenal growth in Internet connectivity.  He expressed the hope
that the prospect of greater interconnectedness than ever before would
lead to:  1) much more cooperative and mutually supportive endeavors; 2)
development of systems of shared and distributed responsibilities to
avoid duplication and to ensure accuracy and preservation of unique
materials; and 3) agreement on the necessary standards and development of
the appropriate directories and indices to make navigation
straightforward among the varied resources that are, and increasingly
will be, available.  In this connection, GIFFORD requested that
participants reflect from the outset upon the sorts of outcomes they
thought the Workshop might have.  Did those present constitute a group
with sufficient common interests to propose a next step or next steps,
and if so, what might those be?  They would return to these questions the
following afternoon.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
FLEISCHHAUER * Core of Workshop concerns preparation and production of
materials * Special challenge in conversion of textual materials *
Quality versus quantity * Do the several groups represented share common
interests? *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Carl FLEISCHHAUER, coordinator, American Memory, Library of Congress,
emphasized that he would attempt to represent the people who perform some
of the work of converting or preparing  materials and that the core of
the Workshop had to do with preparation and production.  FLEISCHHAUER
then drew a distinction between the long term, when many things would be
available and connected in the ways that GIFFORD described, and the short
term, in which AM not only has wrestled with the issue of what is the
best course to pursue but also has faced a variety of technical
challenges.

FLEISCHHAUER remarked AM's endeavors to deal with a wide range of library
formats, such as motion picture collections, sound-recording collections,
and pictorial collections of various sorts, especially collections of
photographs.  In the course of these efforts, AM kept coming back to
textual materials--manuscripts or rare printed matter, bound materials,
etc.  Text posed the greatest conversion challenge of all.  Thus, the
genesis of the Workshop, which reflects the problems faced by AM.  These
problems include physical problems.  For example, those in the library
and archive business deal with collections made up of fragile and rare
manuscript items, bound materials, especially the notoriously brittle
bound materials of the late nineteenth century.  These are precious
cultural artifacts, however, as well as interesting sources of
information, and LC desires to retain and conserve them.  AM needs to
handle things without damaging them.  Guillotining a book to run it
through a sheet feeder must be avoided at all costs.

Beyond physical problems, issues pertaining GL JFZORGB ZILHV.  ULI
VCZNKOV, GSV WVHRIV GL KILERWV FHVIH DRGS Z HVZIXSZYOV GVCG RH ZUUVXGVW
YB GSV JFVHGRLM LU ZXXVKGZYOV OVEVO LU ZXXFIZXB.  LMV SFMWIVW KVIXVMG
ZXXFIZXB RH GIVNVMWLFHOB VCKVMHREV.  LM GSV LGSVI SZMW, GSV LFGKFG LU
LKGRXZO XSZIZXGVI IVXLTMRGRLM (LXI) XZM YV GIVNVMWLFHOB RMZXXFIZGV.
ZOGSLFTS ZN SZH ZGGVNKGVW GL URMW Z NRWWOV TILFMW, FMXVIGZRMGB KVIHRHGH
ZH GL DSVGSVI LI MLG RG SZH WRHXLEVIVW GSV IRTSG HLOFGRLM.

JFVHGRLMH LU JFZORGB ZILHV XLMXVIMRMT RNZTVH ZH DVOO.  UOVRHXSSZFVI
XLMGIZHGVW GSV VCGIVNVOB SRTS OVEVO LU JFZORGB LU GSV WRTRGZO RNZTVH RM
GSV XLIMVOO CVILC KILQVXG DRGS ZN'H VUULIGH GL KILERWV Z YILDHV-JFZORGB
LI ZXXVHH-JFZORGB RNZTV, ZH LKKLHVW GL ZM ZIXSREZO LI KIVHVIEZGRLM RNZTV.
UOVRHXSSZFVI GSVIVULIV DVOXLNVW GSV LKKLIGFMRGB GL XLNKZIV MLGVH.

UOVRHXSSZFVI LYHVIEVW RM KZHHRMT GSZG XLMEVIHZGRLMH SV SZW SZW ZYLFG
MVGDLIPH SZEV YVTFM GL HRTMZO GSZG ULI EZIRLFH ULINH LU NVWRZ Z
WVGVINRMZGRLM NZB YV NZWV GSZG GSVIV RH Z YILDHV-JFZORGB RGVN, LI Z
WRHGIRYFGRLM-ZMW-ZXXVHH-JFZORGB RGVN GSZG NZB XLVCRHG RM HLNV HBHGVNH
DRGS Z SRTSVI JFZORGB ZIXSREZO RGVN GSZG DLFOW YV RMXLMEVMRVMG GL HVMW
GSILFTS GSV MVGDLIP YVXZFHV LU RGH HRAV.  UOVRHXSSZFVI IVUVIIVW, LU
XLFIHV, GL RNZTVH NLIV GSZM GL HVZIXSZYOV GVCG.

ZH ZN XLMHRWVIVW GSLHV JFVHGRLMH, HVEVIZO XLMXVKGFZO RHHFVH ZILHV:  LFTSG
ZN LXXZHRLMZOOB GL IVKILWFXV NZGVIRZOH VMGRIVOB GSILFTS ZM RNZTV HVG, ZG
LGSVI GRNVH, VMGRIVOB GSILFTS Z GVCG HVG, ZMW RM HLNV XZHVH, Z NRC?
GSVIV KILYZYOB DLFOW YV GRNVH DSVM GSV SRHGLIRXZO ZFGSVMGRXRGB LU ZM
ZIGRUZXG DLFOW IVJFRIV GSZG RGH RNZTV YV FHVW.  ZM RNZTV NRTSG YV
WVHRIZYOV ZH Z IVXLFIHV ULI FHVIH RU LMV XLFOW MLG KILERWV 100-KVIXVMG
ZXXFIZGV GVCG.  ZTZRM, ZN DLMWVIVW, ZH Z KIZXGRXZO NZGGVI, RU Z
