Playing with the disk for an hour or so at Rutgers brought home to DALY
at once the revolutionizing impact of the new technology on his previous
methods of research.  Had this disk been available two or three years
earlier, DALY contended, when he was engaged in preparing a commentary on
Book 10 of Virgil's Aeneid for Cambridge University Press, he would not
have required a forty-eight-square-foot table on which to spread the
numerous, most frequently consulted items, including some ten or twelve
concordances to key Latin authors, an almost equal number of lexica to
authors who lacked concordances, and where either lexica or concordances
were lacking, numerous editions of authors antedating and postdating Virgil.

Nor, when checking each of the average six to seven words contained in
the Virgilian hexameter for its usage elsewhere in Virgil's works or
other Latin authors, would DALY have had to maintain the laborious
mechanical process of flipping through these concordances, lexica, and
editions each time.  Nor would he have had to frequent as often the
Milton S. Eisenhower Library at the Johns Hopkins University to consult
the Thesaurus Linguae Latinae.  Instead of devoting countless hours, or
the bulk of his research time, to gathering data concerning Virgil's use
of words, DALY--now freed by PHI's Latin authors disk from the
tyrannical, yet in some ways paradoxically happy scholarly drudgery--
would have been able to devote that same bulk of time to analyzing and
interpreting Virgilian verbal usage.

Citing Theodore Brunner, Gregory Crane, Elli MYLONAS, and Avra MICHELSON,
DALY argued that this reversal in his style of work, made possible by the
new technology, would perhaps have resulted in better, more productive
research.  Indeed, even in the course of his browsing the Latin authors
disk at Rutgers, its powerful search, retrieval, and highlighting
capabilities suggested to him several new avenues of research into
Virgil's use of sound effects.  This anecdotal account, DALY maintained,
may serve to illustrate in part the sudden and radical transformation
being wrought in the ways scholars work.

                                 ******

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
MICHELSON * Elements related to scholarship and technology * Electronic
texts within the context of broader trends within information technology
and scholarly communication * Evaluation of the prospects for the use of
electronic texts * Relationship of electronic texts to processes of
scholarly communication in humanities research * New exchange formats
created by scholars * Projects initiated to increase scholarly access to
converted text * Trend toward making electronic resources available
through research and education networks * Changes taking place in
scholarly communication among humanities scholars * Network-mediated
scholarship transforming traditional scholarly practices * Key
information technology trends affecting the conduct of scholarly
communication over the next decade * The trend toward end-user computing
* The trend toward greater connectivity * Effects of these trends * Key
transformations taking place * Summary of principal arguments *
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Avra MICHELSON, Archival Research and Evaluation Staff, National Archives
and Records Administration (NARA), argued that establishing who will use
electronic texts and what they will use them for involves a consideration
of both information technology and scholarship trends.  This
consideration includes several elements related to scholarship and
technology:  1) the key trends in information technology that are most
relevant to scholarship; 2) the key trends in the use of currently
available technology by scholars in the nonscientific community; and 3)
the relationship between these two very distinct but interrelated trends.
The investment in understanding this relationship being made by
information providers, technologists, and public policy developers, as
well as by scholars themselves, seems to be pervasive and growing,
MICHELSON contended.  She drew on collaborative work with Jeff Rothenberg
on the scholarly use of technology.

MICHELSON sought to place the phenomenon of electronic texts within the
context of broader trends within information technology and scholarly
communication.  She argued that electronic texts are of most use to
researchers to the extent that the researchers' working context (i.e.,
their relevant bibliographic sources, collegial feedback, analytic tools,
notes, drafts, etc.), along with their field's primary and secondary
sources, also is accessible in electronic form and can be integrated in
ways that are unique to the on-line environment.

Evaluation of the prospects for the use of electronic texts includes two
elements:  1) an examination of the ways in which researchers currently
are using electronic texts along with other electronic resources, and 2)
an analysis of key information technology trends that are affecting the
long-term conduct of scholarly communication.  MICHELSON limited her
discussion of the use of electronic texts to the practices of humanists
and noted that the scientific community was outside the panel's overview.

MICHELSON examined the nature of the current relationship of electronic
texts in particular, and electronic resources in general, to what she
maintained were, essentially, five processes of scholarly communication
in humanities research.  Researchers 1) identify sources, 2) communicate
with their colleagues, 3) interpret and analyze data, 4) disseminate
their research findings, and 5) prepare curricula to instruct the next
generation of scholars and students.  This examination would produce a
clearer understanding of the synergy among these five processes that
fuels the tendency of the use of electronic resources for one process to
stimulate its use for other processes of scholarly communication.

For the first process of scholarly communication, the identification of
sources, MICHELSON remarked the opportunity scholars now enjoy to
supplement traditional word-of-mouth searches for sources among their
colleagues with new forms of electronic searching.  So, for example,
instead of having to visit the library, researchers are able to explore
descriptions of holdings in their offices.  Furthermore, if their own
institutions' holdings prove insufficient, scholars can access more than
200 major American library catalogues over Internet, including the
universities of California, Michigan, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin.
Direct access to the bibliographic databases offers intellectual
empowerment to scholars by presenting a comprehensive means of browsing
through libraries from their homes and offices at their convenience.

The second process of communication involves communication among
scholars.  Beyond the most common methods of communication, scholars are
using E-mail and a variety of new electronic communications formats
derived from it for further academic interchange.  E-mail exchanges are
growing at an astonishing rate, reportedly 15 percent a month.  They
currently constitute approximately half the traffic on research and
education networks.  Moreover, the global spread of E-mail has been so
rapid that it is now possible for American scholars to use it to
communicate with colleagues in close to 140 other countries.

Other new exchange formats created by scholars and operating on Internet
include more than 700 conferences, with about 80 percent of these devoted
to topics in the social sciences and humanities.  The rate of growth of
these scholarly electronic conferences also is astonishing.  From l990 to
l991, 200 new conferences were identified on Internet.  From October 1991
to June 1992, an additional 150 conferences in the social sciences and
humanities were added to this directory of listings.  Scholars have
established conferences in virtually every field, within every different
discipline.  For example, there are currently close to 600 active social
science and humanities  conferences on topics such as art and
architecture, ethnomusicology, folklore, Japanese culture, medical
education, and gifted and talented education.  The appeal to scholars of
communicating through these conferences is that, unlike any other medium,
electronic conferences today provide a forum for global communication
with peers at the front end of the research process.

Interpretation and analysis of sources constitutes the third process of
scholarly communication that MICHELSON discussed in terms of texts and
textual resources.  The methods used to analyze sources fall somewhere on
a continuum from quantitative analysis to qualitative analysis.
Typically, evidence is culled and evaluated using methods drawn from both
ends of this continuum.  At one end, quantitative analysis involves the
use of mathematical processes such as a count of frequencies and
distributions of occurrences or, on a higher level, regression analysis.
At the other end of the continuum, qualitative analysis typically
involves nonmathematical processes oriented toward language
interpretation or the building of theory.  Aspects of this work involve
the processing--either manual or cLNKFGZGRLMZO--LU OZITV ZMW HLNVGRNVH
NZHHREV ZNLFMGH LU GVCGFZO HLFIXVH, ZOGSLFTS GSV FHV LU MLMGVCGFZO
HLFIXVH ZH VERWVMXV, HFXS ZH KSLGLTIZKSH, HLFMW IVXLIWRMTH, URON ULLGZTV,
ZMW ZIGRUZXGH, RH HRTMRURXZMG ZH DVOO.

HXSLOZIH SZEV WRHXLEVIVW GSZG NZMB LU GSV NVGSLWH LU RMGVIKIVGZGRLM ZMW
ZMZOBHRH GSZG ZIV IVOZGVW GL YLGS JFZMGRGZGREV ZMW JFZORGZGREV NVGSLWH
ZIV KILXVHHVH GSZG XZM YV KVIULINVW YB XLNKFGVIH.  ULI VCZNKOV, XLNKFGVIH
XZM XLFMG.  GSVB XZM XLFMG YIFHS HGILPVH FHVW RM Z IVNYIZMWG KZRMGRMT LI
KVIULIN IVTIVHHRLM ZMZOBHRH ULI FMWVIHGZMWRMT XZFHV ZMW VUUVXG.  YB NVZMH
LU ZWEZMXVW GVXSMLOLTRVH, XLNKFGVIH XZM IVXLTMRAV KZGGVIMH, ZMZOBAV GVCG,
ZMW NLWVO XLMXVKGH.  UFIGSVINLIV, XLNKFGVIH XZM XLNKOVGV GSVHV KILXVHHVH
UZHGVI DRGS NLIV HLFIXVH ZMW DRGS TIVZGVI KIVXRHRLM GSZM HXSLOZIH DSL
NFHG IVOB LM NZMFZO RMGVIKIVGZGRLM LU WZGZ.  YFG RU HXSLOZIH ZIV GL FHV
XLNKFGVIH ULI GSVHV KILXVHHVH, HLFIXV NZGVIRZOH NFHG YV RM Z ULIN
ZNVMZYOV GL XLNKFGVI-ZHHRHGVW ZMZOBHRH.  ULI GSRH IVZHLM NZMB HXSLOZIH,
LMXV GSVB SZEV RWVMGRURVW GSV HLFIXVH GSZG ZIV PVB GL GSVRI IVHVZIXS, ZIV
XLMEVIGRMT GSVN GL NZXSRMV-IVZWZYOV ULIN.  GSFH, Z IVKIVHVMGZGREV VCZNKOV
LU GSV MFNVILFH GVCGFZO XLMEVIHRLM KILQVXGH LITZMRAVW YB HXSLOZIH ZILFMW
GSV DLIOW RM IVXVMG BVZIH GL HFKKLIG XLNKFGZGRLMZO GVCG ZMZOBHRH RH GSV
GOT, GSV GSVHZFIFH ORMTFZV TIZVXZV.  GSRH KILQVXG RH WVELGVW GL
XLMEVIGRMT GSV VCGZMG ZMXRVMG GVCGH LU XOZHHRXZO TIVVXV.  (VWRGLI'H MLGV:
ZXXLIWRMT GL GSV GOT MVDHOVGGVI LU NZB O992, GOT DZH RM FHV RM GSRIGB-GDL
WRUUVIVMG XLFMGIRVH.  GSRH URTFIV FKWZGVH NRXSVOHLM'H KIVERLFH XLFMG YB LMV.)

GSV HXSLOZIH KVIULINRMT GSVHV XLMEVIHRLMH SZEV YVVM ZHPVW GL IVXLTMRAV
GSZG GSV VOVXGILMRX HLFIXVH GSVB ZIV XLMEVIGRMT ULI LMV FHV KLHHVHH EZOFV
ULI LGSVI IVHVZIXS KFIKLHVH ZH DVOO.  ZH Z IVHFOG, WFIRMT GSV KZHG UVD
BVZIH, SFNZMRGRVH HXSLOZIH SZEV RMRGRZGVW Z MFNYVI LU KILQVXGH GL
RMXIVZHV HXSLOZIOB ZXXVHH GL XLMEVIGVW GVCG.  HL, ULI VCZNKOV, GSV GVCG
VMXLWRMT RMRGRZGREV (GVR), ZYLFG DSRXS NLIV RH HZRW OZGVI RM GSV KILTIZN,
DZH VHGZYORHSVW ZH ZM VUULIG YB HXSLOZIH GL WVGVINRMV HGZMWZIW VOVNVMGH
ZMW NVGSLWH ULI VMXLWRMT NZXSRMV-IVZWZYOV GVCG ULI VOVXGILMRX VCXSZMTV.
RM Z HVXLMW VUULIG GL UZXRORGZGV GSV HSZIRMT LU XLMEVIGVW GVCG, HXSLOZIH
SZEV XIVZGVW Z MVD RMHGRGFGRLM, GSV XVMGVI ULI VOVXGILMRX GVCGH RM GSV
SFNZMRGRVH (XVGS).  GSV XVMGVI VHGRNZGVH GSZG GSVIV ZIV 8,000 HVIRVH LU
HLFIXV GVCGH RM GSV SFNZMRGRVH GSZG SZEV YVVM XLMEVIGVW GL
NZXSRMV-IVZWZYOV ULIN DLIOWDRWV.  XVGS RH FMWVIGZPRMT ZM RMGVIMZGRLMZO
HVZIXS ULI XLMEVIGVW GVCG RM GSV SFNZMRGRVH, XLNKRORMT RG RMGL ZM
VOVXGILMRX ORYIZIB, ZMW KIVKZIRMT YRYORLTIZKSRX WVHXIRKGRLMH LU GSV
HLFIXVH ULI GSV IVHVZIXS ORYIZIRVH RMULINZGRLM MVGDLIP'H (IORM)
NZXSRMV-IVZWZYOV WZGZ UROV.  GSV ORYIZIB KILUVHHRLM SZH YVTFM GL RMRGRZGV
OZITV XLMEVIHRLM KILQVXGH ZH DVOO, HFXS ZH ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB.

DSROV HXSLOZIH SZEV YVVM NZPRMT XLMEVIGVW GVCG ZEZROZYOV GL LMV ZMLGSVI,
GBKRXZOOB LM WRHP LI LM XW-ILN, GSV XOVZI GIVMW RH GLDZIW NZPRMT GSVHV
IVHLFIXVH ZEZROZYOV GSILFTS IVHVZIXS ZMW VWFXZGRLM MVGDLIPH.  GSFH, GSV
ZNVIRXZM ZMW UIVMXS IVHVZIXS LM GSV GIVZHFIB LU GSV UIVMXS OZMTFZTV
(ZIGUO) ZMW GSV WZMGV KILQVXG ZIV ZOIVZWB ZEZROZYOV LM RMGVIMVG.
NRXSVOHLM HFNNZIRAVW GSRH HVXGRLM LM RMGVIKIVGZGRLM ZMW ZMZOBHRH YB
MLGRMT GSZG:  1) RMXIVZHRMT MFNYVIH LU SFNZMRGRVH HXSLOZIH RM GSV ORYIZIB
XLNNFMRGB ZIV IVXLTMRARMT GSV RNKLIGZMXV GL GSV ZWEZMXVNVMG LU
HXSLOZIHSRK LU IVGILHKVXGREV XLMEVIHRLM LU HLFIXV NZGVIRZOH RM GSV ZIGH
ZMW SFNZMRGRVH; ZMW 2) GSVIV RH Z TILDRMT IVZORAZGRLM GSZG NZPRMT GSV
HLFIXVH ZEZROZYOV LM IVHVZIXS ZMW VWFXZGRLM MVGDLIPH NZCRNRAVH GSVRI
FHVUFOMVHH ULI GSV ZMZOBHRH KVIULINVW YB SFNZMRGRVH HXSLOZIH.

GSV ULFIGS KILXVHH LU HXSLOZIOB XLNNFMRXZGRLM RH WRHHVNRMZGRLM LU
IVHVZIXS URMWRMTH, GSZG RH, KFYORXZGRLM.  HXSLOZIH ZIV FHRMT VCRHGRMT
IVHVZIXS ZMW VWFXZGRLM MVGDLIPH GL VMTRMVVI Z MVD GBKV LU KFYORXZGRLM:
HXSLOZIOB-XLMGILOOVW QLFIMZOH GSZG ZIV VOVXGILMRXZOOB KILWFXVW ZMW
WRHHVNRMZGVW.  ZOGSLFTS HFXS QLFIMZOH ZIV HGROO VNVITRMT ZH Z
XLNNFMRXZGRLM ULINZG, GSVRI MFNYVI SZH TILDM, UILN ZKKILCRNZGVOB GDVOEV
GL GSRIGB-HRC WFIRMT GSV KZHG BVZI (QFOB 1991 GL QFMV 1992).  NLHG LU
GSVHV VOVXGILMRX HXSLOZIOB QLFIMZOH ZIV WVELGVW GL GLKRXH RM GSV
SFNZMRGRVH.  ZH DRGS MVGDLIP XLMUVIVMXVH, HXSLOZIOB VMGSFHRZHN ULI GSVHV
VOVXGILMRX QLFIMZOH HGVNH UILN GSV NVWRFN'H FMRJFV ZYRORGB GL ZWEZMXV
HXSLOZIHSRK RM Z DZB GSZG ML LGSVI NVWRFN XZM WL YB HFKKLIGRMT TOLYZO
UVVWYZXP ZMW RMGVIXSZMTV, KIZXGRXZOOB RM IVZO GRNV, VZIOB RM GSV IVHVZIXS
KILXVHH.  YVBLMW HXSLOZIOB QLFIMZOH, NRXSVOHLM IVNZIPVW GSV WVOREVIB LU
XLNNVIXRZO UFOO-GVCG KILWFXGH, HFXS ZH ZIGRXOVH RM KILUVHHRLMZO QLFIMZOH,
MVDHOVGGVIH, NZTZARMVH, DRIV HVIERXVH, ZMW IVUVIVMXV HLFIXVH.  GSVHV ZIV
YVRMT WVOREVIVW ERZ LM-ORMV OLXZO ORYIZIB XZGZOLTFVH, VHKVXRZOOB GSILFTS
XW-ILNH.  UFIGSVINLIV, ZXXLIWRMT GL NRXSVOHLM, GSVIV RH TVMVIZO LKGRNRHN
GSZG GSV XLKBIRTSG ZMW UVVH RHHFVH RNKVWRMT GSV WVOREVIB LU UFOO GVCG LM
VCRHGRMT IVHVZIXS ZMW VWFXZGRLM MVGDLIPH HLLM DROO YV IVHLOEVW.

