
                                  ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
FREEMAN * AM and archival electronic resources in a school environment *
Questions concerning context * Questions concerning the electronic format
itself * Computer anxiety * Access and availability of the system *
Hardware * Strengths gained through the use of archival resources in
schools *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Reiterating an observation made by VECCIA, that AM is an archival
resource made up of primary materials with very little interpretation,
FREEMAN stated that the project has attempted to bridge the gap between
these bare primary materials and a school environment, and in that cause
has created guided introductions to AM collections.  Loud demand from the
educational community,  chiefly from teachers working with the upper
grades of elementary school through high school, greeted the announcement
that AM would be tested around the country.

FREEMAN reported not only on what was learned about AM in a school
environment, but also on several universal questions that were raised
concerning archival electronic resources in schools.  She discussed
several strengths of this type of material in a school environment as
opposed to a highly structured resource that offers a limited number of
paths to follow.

FREEMAN first raised several questions about using AM in a school
environment.  There is often some difficulty in developing a sense of
what the system contains.  Many students sit down at a computer resource
and assume that, because AM comes from the Library of Congress, all of
American history is now at their fingertips.  As a result of that sort of
mistaken judgment, some students are known to conclude that AM contains
nothing of use to them when they look for one or two things and do not
find them.  It is difficult to discover that middle ground where one has
a sense of what the system contains.  Some students grope toward the idea
of an archive, a new idea to them, since they have not previously
experienced what it means to have access to a vast body of somewhat
random information.

Other questions raised by FREEMAN concerned the electronic format itself.
For instance, in a school environment it is often difficult both for
teachers and students to gain a sense of what it is they are viewing.
They understand that it is a visual image, but they do not necessarily
know that it is a postcard from the turn of the century, a panoramic
photograph, or even machine-readable text of an eighteenth-century
broadside, a twentieth-century printed book, or a nineteenth-century
diary.  That distinction is often difficult for people in a school
environment to grasp.  Because of that, it occasionally becomes difficult
to draw conclusions from what one is viewing.

FREEMAN also noted the obvious fear of the computer, which constitutes a
difficulty in using an electronic resource.  Though students in general
did not suffer from this anxiety, several older students feared that they
were computer-illiterate, an assumption that became self-fulfilling when
they searched for something but failed to find it.  FREEMAN said she
believed that some teachers also fear computer resources, because they
believe they lack complete control.  FREEMAN related the example of
teachers shooing away students because it was not their time to use the
system.  This was a case in which the situation had to be extremely
structured so that the teachers would not feel that they had lost their
grasp on what the system contained.

A final question raised by FREEMAN concerned access and availability of
the system.  She noted the occasional existence of a gap in communication
between school librarians and teachers.  Often AM sits in a school
library and the librarian is the person responsible for monitoring the
system.  Teachers do not always take into their world new library
resources about which the librarian is excited.  Indeed, at the sites
where AM had been used most effectively within a library, the librarian
was required to go to specific teachers and instruct them in its use.  As
a result, several AM sites will have in-service sessions over a summer,
in the hope that perhaps, with a more individualized link, teachers will
be more likely to use the resource.

A related issue in the school context concerned the number of
workstations available at any one location.  Centralization of equipment
at the district level, with teachers invited to download things and walk
away with them, proved unsuccessful because the hours these offices were
open were also school hours.

Another issue was hardware.  As VECCIA observed, a range of sites exists,
some technologically advanced and others essentially acquiring their
first computer for the primary purpose of using it in conjunction with
AM's testing.  Users at technologically sophisticated sites want even
more sophisticated hardware, so that they can perform even more
sophisticated tasks with the materials in AM.  But once they acquire a
newer piece of hardware, they must learn how to use that also; at an
unsophisticated site it takes an extremely long time simply to become
accustomed to the computer, not to mention the program offered with the
computer.  All of these small issues raise one large question, namely,
are systems like AM truly rewarding in a school environment, or do they
simply act as innovative toys that do little more than spark interest?

FREEMAN contended that the evaluation project has revealed several strengths
that were gained through the use of archival resources in schools, including:

     * Psychic rewards from using AM as a vast, rich database, with
     teachers assigning various projects to students--oral presentations,
     written reports, a documentary, a turn-of-the-century newspaper--
     projects that start with the materials in AM but are completed using
     other resources; AM thus is used as a research tool in conjunction
     with other electronic resources, as well as with books and items in
     the library where the system is set up.

     * Students are acquiring computer literacy in a humanities context.

     * This sort of system is overcoming the isolation between disciplines
     that often exists in schools.  For example, many English teachers are
     requiring their students to write papers on historical topics
     represented in AM.  Numerous teachers have reported that their
     students are learning critical thinking skills using the system.

     * On a broader level, AM is introducing primary materials, not only
     to students but also to teachers, in an environment where often
     simply none exist--an exciting thing for the students because it
     helps them learn to conduct research, to interpret, and to draw
     their own conclusions.  In learning to conduct research and what it
     means, students are motivated to seek knowledge.  That relates to
     another positive outcome--a high level of personal involvement of
     students with the materials in this system and greater motivation to
     conduct their own research and draw their own conclusions.

     * Perhaps the most ironic strength of these kinds of archival
     electronic resources is that many of the teachers AM interviewed
     were desperate, it is no exaggeration to say, not only for primary
     materials but for unstructured primary mateIRZOH.  GSVHV DLFOW, GSVB
     GSLFTSG, ULHGVI KVIHLMZOOB NLGREZGVW IVHVZIXS, VCKOLIZGRLM, ZMW
     VCXRGVNVMG RM GSVRI HGFWVMGH.  RMWVVW, GSVHV NZGVIRZOH SZEV WLMV
     QFHG GSZG.  RILMRXZOOB, SLDVEVI, GSRH OZXP LU HGIFXGFIV KILWFXVH
     HLNV LU GSV XLMUFHRLM GL DSRXS GSV MVDMVHH LU GSVHV PRMWH LU
     IVHLFIXVH NZB ZOHL XLMGIRYFGV.  GSV PVB GL VUUVXGREV FHV LU ZIXSREZO
     KILWFXGH RM Z HXSLLO VMERILMNVMG RH Z XOVZI, VUUVXGREV RMGILWFXGRLM
     GL GSV HBHGVN ZMW GL DSZG RG XLMGZRMH.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
WRHXFHHRLM * MLGSRMT PMLDM, JFZMGRGZGREVOB, ZYLFG GSV MFNYVI LU
SFNZMRGRVH HXSLOZIH DSL NFHG HVV GSV LIRTRMZO EVIHFH GSLHV DSL DLFOW
HVGGOV ULI ZM VWRGVW GIZMHXIRKG, LI ZYLFG GSV DZBH RM DSRXS SFNZMRGRVH
HXSLOZIH ZIV FHRMT RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTB * URIN XLMXOFHRLMH XLMXVIMRMT
GSV NZMMVI ZMW VCGVMG LU GSV FHV LU HFKKLIGRMT NZGVIRZOH RM KIRMG
KILERWVW YB ZN GL ZDZRG XLNKOVGRLM LU VEZOFZGREV HGFWB * Z ORHGVMVI'H
IVUOVXGRLMH LM ZWWRGRLMZO ZKKORXZGRLMH LU VOVXGILMRX GVCGH * ILOV LU
VOVXGILMRX IVHLFIXVH RM GVZXSRMT VOVNVMGZIB IVHVZIXS HPROOH GL HGFWVMGH *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

WFIRMT GSV WRHXFHHRLM GSZG ULOOLDVW GSV KIVHVMGZGRLMH YB NRXSVOHLM,
EVXXRZ, ZMW UIVVNZM, ZWWRGRLMZO KLRMGH VNVITVW.

OVHP ZHPVW RU NRXSVOHLM XLFOW TREV ZMB JFZMGRGZGREV VHGRNZGV LU GSV
MFNYVI LU SFNZMRGRVH HXSLOZIH DSL NFHG HVV LI DZMG GL HVV GSV LIRTRMZO,
LI GSV YVHG KLHHRYOV EVIHRLM LU GSV NZGVIRZO, EVIHFH GSLHV DSL GBKRXZOOB
DLFOW HVGGOV ULI ZM VWRGVW GIZMHXIRKG.  DSROV FMZYOV GL KILERWV Z URTFIV,
HSV LUUVIVW SVI RNKIVHHRLMH ZH ZM ZIXSRERHG DSL SZH WLMV HLNV IVUVIVMXV
DLIP ZMW SZH WRHXFHHVW GSRH RHHFV DRGS LGSVI ZIXSRERHGH DSL KVIULIN
IVUVIVMXV, GSZG GSLHV DSL FHV ZIXSREVH ZMW GSLHV DSL FHV KIRNZIB HLFIXVH
ULI DSZG DLFOW YV XLMHRWVIVW EVIB SRTS-OVEVO HXSLOZIOB IVHVZIXS, ZH
LKKLHVW GL, HZB, FMWVITIZWFZGV KZKVIH, DVIV UVD RM MFNYVI, VHKVXRZOOB
TREVM GSV KFYORX RMGVIVHG RM FHRMT KIRNZIB HLFIXVH GL XLMWFXG
TVMVZOLTRXZO LI ZELXZGRLMZO IVHVZIXS ZMW GSV PRMW LU KILUVHHRLMZO
IVHVZIXS WLMV YB KVLKOV RM KIREZGV RMWFHGIB LI GSV UVWVIZO TLEVIMNVMG.
NLIV RNKLIGZMG RM NRXSVOHLM'H ERVD DZH GSZG, JFZMGRGZGREVOB, MLGSRMT RH
PMLDM ZYLFG GSV DZBH RM DSRXS, ULI VCZNKOV, SFNZMRGRVH HXSLOZIH ZIV FHRMT
RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTB.  ML HGFWRVH VCRHG GL LUUVI TFRWZMXV RM XIVZGRMT
HGIZGVTRVH.  GSV NLHG IVXVMG HGFWB DZH XLMWFXGVW RM 1985 YB GSV ZNVIRXZM
XLFMXRO LU OVZIMVW HLXRVGRVH (ZXOH), ZMW DSZG RG HSLDVW DZH GSZG 50
KVIXVMG LU SFNZMRGRVH HXSLOZIH ZG GSZG GRNV DVIV FHRMT XLNKFGVIH.  GSZG
XLMHGRGFGVH GSV VCGVMG LU LFI PMLDOVWTV.

XLMXVIMRMT ZN'H HGIZGVTB ULI LIRVMGRMT KVLKOV GLDZIW GSV HXLKV LU
VOVXGILMRX IVHLFIXVH, UIVVNZM XLFOW LUUVI ML SZIW XLMXOFHRLMH ZG GSRH
KLRMG, YVXZFHV HSV ZMW SVI XLOOVZTFVH DVIV HGROO DZRGRMT GL HVV,
KZIGRXFOZIOB RM GSV HXSLLOH, DSZG SZH YVVM NZWV LU GSVRI VUULIGH.  DRGSRM
GSV HBHGVN, SLDVEVI, ZN SZH KILERWVW DSZG ZIV XZOOVW VOVXGILMRX VCSRYRGH-
-HFXS ZH RMGILWFXGRLMH GL GRNV KVIRLWH ZMW NZGVIRZOH--ZMW GSVHV ZIV
RMGVMWVW GL LUUVI Z HGFWVMG FHVI Z HVMHV LU DSZG Z YILZWHRWV RH  ZMW DSZG
RG NRTSG GVOO SVI LI SRN.  YFG UIVVNZM XLMXVWVW GSZG GSV KILQVXG HGZUU
DLFOW SZEV GL GZOP DRGS HGFWVMGH MVCG BVZI, ZUGVI GVZXSVIH SZEV SZW Z
HFNNVI GL FHV GSV NZGVIRZOH, ZMW ZGGVNKG GL WRHXLEVI DSZG GSV HGFWVMGH
DVIV OVZIMRMT UILN GSV NZGVIRZOH.  RM ZWWRGRLM, UIVVNZM WVHXIRYVW
HFKKLIGRMT NZGVIRZOH RM KIRMG KILERWVW YB ZN ZG GSV IVJFVHG LU OLXZO
GVZXSVIH WFIRMT Z NVVGRMT SVOW ZG OX.  GSVHV RMXOFWVW GRNV ORMVH,
YRYORLTIZKSRVH, ZMW LGSVI NZGVIRZOH GSZG XLFOW YV IVKILWFXVW LM Z
KSLGLXLKRVI RM Z XOZHHILLN.  GVZXSVIH XLFOW DZOP ZDZB DRGS ZMW FHV GSVHV,
ZMW RM GSRH DZB TZRM Z YVGGVI FMWVIHGZMWRMT LU GSV XLMGVMGH.  YFG ZTZRM,
IVZXSRMT URIN XLMXOFHRLMH XLMXVIMRMT GSV NZMMVI ZMW VCGVMG LU GSVRI FHV
DLFOW SZEV GL DZRG FMGRO MVCG BVZI.

ZH GL GSV XSZMTVH HSV HZD LXXFIIRMT ZG GSV MZGRLMZO ZIXSREVH ZMW IVXLIWH
ZWNRMRHGIZGRLM (MZIZ) ZH Z IVHFOG LU GSV RMXIVZHRMT VNKSZHRH LM
