printed volume.  Given the current budget crunch in educational systems
and the corresponding constraints on librarians in smaller institutions
who wish to add these volumes to their collections, producing the
documents on CD-ROM would likely open a greatly expanded audience for the
papers.  TWOHIG stressed, however, that development of the Founding
Fathers CD-ROM is still in its infancy.  Serious software problems remain
to be resolved before the material can be put into readable form.

Funding from the Packard Foundation resulted in a major push to
transcribe the 75,000 or so documents of the Washington papers remaining
to be transcribed onto computer disks.  Slides illustrated several of the
problems encountered, for example, the present inability of CD-ROM to
indicate the cross-outs (deleted material) in eighteenth century
documents.  TWOHIG next described documents from various periods in the
eighteenth century that have been transcribed in chronological order and
delivered to the Packard offices in California, where they are converted
to the CD-ROM, a process that is expected to consume five years to
complete (that is, reckoning from David Packard's suggestion made several
years ago, until about July 1994).  TWOHIG found an encouraging
indication of the project's benefits in the ongoing use made by scholars
of the search functions of the CD-ROM, particularly in reducing the time
spent in manually turning the pages of the Washington papers.

TWOHIG next furnished details concerning the accuracy of transcriptions.
For instance, the insertion of thousands of documents on the CD-ROM
currently does not permit each document to be verified against the
original manuscript several times as in the case of documents that appear
in the published edition.  However, the transcriptions receive a cursory
check for obvious typos, the misspellings of proper names, and other
errors from the WPP CD-ROM editor.  Eventually, all documents that appear
in the electronic version will be checked by project editors.  Although
this process has met with opposition from some of the editors on the
grounds that imperfect work may leave their offices, the advantages in
making this material available as a research tool outweigh  fears about the
misspelling of proper names and other relatively minor editorial matters.

Completion of all five Founding Fathers projects (i.e., retrievability
and searchability of all of the documents by proper names, alternate
spellings, or varieties of subjects) will provide one of the richest
sources of this size for the history of the United States in the latter
part of the eighteenth century.  Further, publication on CD-ROM will
allow editors to include even minutiae, such as laundry lists, not
included in the printed volumes.

It seems possible that the extensive annotation provided in the printed
volumes eventually will be added to the CD-ROM edition, pending
negotiations with the publishers of the papers.  At the moment, the
Founding Fathers CD-ROM is accessible only on the IBYCUS, a computer
developed out of the Thesaurus Linguae Graecae KILQVXG ZMW WVHRTMVW ULI
GSV FHV LU XOZHHRXZO HXSLOZIH.  GSVIV ZIV KVISZKH 400 RYBXFH XLNKFGVIH RM
GSV XLFMGIB, NLHG LU DSRXS ZIV RM FMREVIHRGB XOZHHRXH WVKZIGNVMGH.
FOGRNZGVOB, RG RH ZMGRXRKZGVW GSZG GSV XW-ILN VWRGRLM LU GSV ULFMWRMT
UZGSVIH WLXFNVMGH DROO IFM LM ZMB RYN-XLNKZGRYOV LI NZXRMGLHS XLNKFGVI
DRGS Z XW-ILN WIREV.  MFNVILFH XSZMTVH RM GSV HLUGDZIV DROO ZOHL LXXFI
YVULIV GSV KILQVXG RH XLNKOVGVW.  (VWRGLI'H MLGV: ZM RYBXFH DZH
FMZEZROZYOV GL WVNLMHGIZGV GSV XW-ILN.)

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
WRHXFHHRLM * HVEVIZO ZWWRGRLMZO UVZGFIVH LU DKK XOZIRURVW *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

WRHXFHHRLM ULOOLDRMT GDLSRT'H KIVHVMGZGRLM HVIEVW GL XOZIRUB HVEVIZO
ZWWRGRLMZO UVZGFIVH, RMXOFWRMT (1) GSZG GSV KILQVXG'H KIRNZIB
RMGVOOVXGFZO KILWFXG XLMHRHGH RM GSV VOVXGILMRX GIZMHXIRKGRLM LU GSV
NZGVIRZO; (2) GSZG GSV GVCG GIZMHNRGGVW GL GSV XW-ILN KVLKOV RH MLG
NZIPVW FK; (3) GSZG XZGZOLTRMT ZMW HFYQVXG-RMWVCRMT LU GSV NZGVIRZO
IVNZRM GL YV DLIPVW LFG (GSLFTS ZG GSRH KLRMG NZGVIRZO XZM YV IVGIRVEVW
YB MZNV); ZMW (4) GSZG YVXZFHV ZOO GSV HVZIXSRMT RH WLMV RM GSV SZIWDZIV,
GSV RYBXFH RH WVHRTMVW GL IVZW Z XW-ILN DSRXS XLMGZRMH LMOB HVJFVMGRZO
GVCG UROVH.  GVXSMRXZOOB, RG GSVM YVXLNVH EVIB VZHB GL IVZW GSV NZGVIRZO
LUU ZMW KFG RG LM ZMLGSVI WVERXV.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
OVYILM * LEVIERVD LU GSV SRHGLIB LU GSV QLRMG KILQVXG YVGDVVM ZZZH ZMW
LXOX * HVEVIZO KIZXGRXVH GSV LM-ORMV VMERILMNVMG HSZIVH DRGS GIZWRGRLMZO
KFYORHSRMT LM SZIW XLKB * HVEVIZO GVXSMRXZO ZMW YVSZERLIZO YZIIRVIH GL
VOVXGILMRX KFYORHSRMT * SLD ZZZH ZMW LXOX ZIIREVW ZG GSV HFYQVXG LU
XORMRXZO GIRZOH * ZWEZMGZTVH LU GSV VOVXGILMRX ULINZG ZMW LGSVI UVZGFIVH
LU LQXXG * ZM ROOFHGIZGVW GLFI LU GSV QLFIMZO *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

NZIRZ OVYILM, NZMZTRMT VWRGLI, GSV LMORMV QLFIMZO LU XFIIVMG XORMRXZO
GIRZOH (LQXXG), KIVHVMGVW ZM ROOFHGIZGVW LEVIERVD LU GSV SRHGLIB LU GSV
QLRMG KILQVXG YVGDVVM GSV ZNVIRXZM ZHHLXRZGRLM ULI GSV ZWEZMXVNVMG LU
HXRVMXV (ZZZH) ZMW GSV LMORMV XLNKFGVI ORYIZIB XVMGVI, RMX. (LXOX).  GSV
QLRMG EVMGFIV YVGDVVM ZZZH ZMW LXOX LDVH RGH YVTRMMRMT GL Z
IVLITZMRAZGRLM OZFMXSVW YB GSV MVD XSRVU VCVXFGREV LUURXVI ZG LXOX ZYLFG
GSIVV BVZIH ZTL ZMW XLNYRMVH GSV HGIVMTGSH LU GSVHV GDL WRHKZIZGV
LITZMRAZGRLMH.  RM HSLIG, LQXXG IVKIVHVMGH GSV KILXVHH LU HXSLOZIOB
