+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the brief exchange between LESK and BESSER that followed, several
clarifications emerged.

LESK argued that the photographers were far ahead of BESSER:  It is
almost impossible to create such digitized photographic collections
except with large organizations like museums, because all the
photographic agencies have been going crazy about this and will not sign
licensing agreements on any sort of reasonable terms.  LESK had heard
that National Geographic, for example, had tried to buy the right to use
some image in some kind of educational production for $100 per image, but
the photographers will not touch it.  They want accounting and payment
for each use, which cannot be accomplished within the system.  BESSER
responded that a consortium of photographers, headed by a former National
Geographic photographer, had started assembling its own collection of
electronic reproductions of images, with the money going back to the
cooperative.

LESK contended that BESSER was unnecessarily pessimistic about multimedia
images, because people are accustomed to low-quality images, particularly
from video.  BESSER urged the launching of a study to determine what
users would tolerate, what they would feel comfortable with, and what
absolutely is the highest quality they would ever need.  Conceding that
he had adopted a dire tone in order to arouse people about the issue,
BESSER closed on a sanguine note by saying that he would not be in this
business if he did not think that things could be accomplished.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
LARSEN * Issues of scalability and modularity * Geometric growth of the
Internet and the role played by layering * Basic functions sustaining
this growth * A library's roles and functions in a network environment *
Effects of implementation of the Z39.50 protocol for information
retrieval on the library system * The trade-off between volumes of data
and its potential usage * A snapshot of current trends *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Ronald LARSEN, associate director for information technology, University
of Maryland at College Park, first addressed the issues of scalability
and modularity.  He noted the difficulty of anticipating the effects of
orders-of-magnitude growth, reflecting on the twenty years of experience
with the Arpanet and Internet.  Recalling the day's demonstrations of
CD-ROM and optical disk material, he went on to ask if the field has yet
learned how to scale new systems to enable delivery and dissemination
across large-scale networks.

LARSEN focused on the geometric growth of the Internet from its inception
circa 1969 to the present, and the adjustments required to respond to
that rapid growth.  To illustrate the issue of scalability, LARSEN
considered computer networks as including three generic components:
computers, network communication nodes, and communication media.  Each
component HXZOVH (V.T., XLNKFGVIH IZMTV UILN KXH GL HFKVIXLNKFGVIH;
MVGDLIP MLWVH HXZOV UILN RMGVIUZXV XZIWH RM Z KX GSILFTS HLKSRHGRXZGVW
ILFGVIH ZMW TZGVDZBH; ZMW XLNNFMRXZGRLM NVWRZ IZMTV UILN 2,400-YZFW
WRZO-FK UZXRORGRVH GSILFTS 4.5-NYKH YZXPYLMV ORMPH, ZMW VEVMGFZOOB GL
NFOGRTRTZYRG-KVI-HVXLMW XLNNFMRXZGRLM ORMVH), ZMW ZIXSRGVXGFIZOOB, GSV
XLNKLMVMGH ZIV LITZMRAVW GL HXZOV SRVIZIXSRXZOOB UILN OLXZO ZIVZ MVGDLIPH
GL RMGVIMZGRLMZO-HXZOV MVGDLIPH.  HFXS TILDGS RH NZWV KLHHRYOV YB
YFROWRMT OZBVIH LU XLNNFMRXZGRLM KILGLXLOH, ZH YVHHVI KLRMGVW LFG.
YB OZBVIRMT YLGS KSBHRXZOOB ZMW OLTRXZOOB, Z HVMHV LU HXZOZYRORGB RH
NZRMGZRMVW UILN OLXZO ZIVZ MVGDLIPH RM LUURXVH, ZXILHH XZNKFHVH, GSILFTS
YIRWTVH, ILFGVIH, XZNKFH YZXPYLMVH, URYVI-LKGRX ORMPH, VGX., FK RMGL
IVTRLMZO MVGDLIPH ZMW FOGRNZGVOB RMGL MZGRLMZO ZMW RMGVIMZGRLMZO
MVGDLIPH.

OZIHVM GSVM ROOFHGIZGVW GSV TVLNVGIRX TILDGS LEVI Z GDL-BVZI KVIRLW--
GSILFTS HVKGVNYVI 1991--LU GSV MFNYVI LU MVGDLIPH GSZG XLNKIRHV GSV
RMGVIMVG.  GSRH TILDGS SZH YVVM HFHGZRMVW OZITVOB YB GSV ZEZROZYRORGB LU
GSIVV YZHRX UFMXGRLMH:  VOVXGILMRX NZRO, UROV GIZMHUVI (UGK), ZMW IVNLGV
OLT-LM (GVOMVG).  OZIHVM ZOHL IVERVDVW GSV TILDGS RM GSV PRMW LU GIZUURX
GSZG LXXFIH LM GSV MVGDLIP.  MVGDLIP GIZUURX IVUOVXGH GSV QLRMG XLMGIRYFGRLMH
LU Z OZITVI KLKFOZGRLM LU FHVIH ZMW RMXIVZHRMT FHV KVI FHVI.  GLWZB LMV HVVH
HVIRLFH ZKKORXZGRLMH RMELOERMT NLERMT RNZTVH ZXILHH GSV MVGDLIP--Z IZIRGB
GVM BVZIH ZTL.  OZIHVM IVXZOOVW ZMW XLMXFIIVW DRGS YVHHVI'H NZRM KLRMG
GSZG GSV RMGVIVHGRMT KILYOVNH LXXFI ZG GSV ZKKORXZGRLM OVEVO.

OZIHVM GSVM ROOFHGIZGVW Z NLWVO LU Z ORYIZIB'H ILOVH ZMW UFMXGRLMH RM Z
MVGDLIP VMERILMNVMG.  SV MLGVW, RM KZIGRXFOZI, GSV KOZXVNVMG LU LM-ORMV
XZGZOLTFVH LMGL GSV MVGDLIP ZMW KZGILMH LYGZRMRMT ZXXVHH GL GSV ORYIZIB
RMXIVZHRMTOB GSILFTS OLXZO MVGDLIPH, XZNKFH MVGDLIPH, ZMW GSV RMGVIMVG.
OZIHVM HFKKLIGVW OBMXS'H VZIORVI HFTTVHGRLM GSZG DV MVVW GL ZWWIVHH
UFMWZNVMGZO JFVHGRLMH LU MVGDLIPVW RMULINZGRLM RM LIWVI GL YFROW
VMERILMNVMGH GSZG HXZOV RM GSV RMULINZGRLM HVMHV ZH DVOO ZH RM GSV
KSBHRXZO HVMHV.

