process in terms of distributed responsibility, that is, bring together
the distributed organizations and set up a study group to look at all
these issues and see where we as a nation should move.  The broader
issues of how we deal with the management of electronic information will
not disappear, but only grow worse.

LESK took up this theme and suggested that LC attempt to persuade one
major library in each state to deal with its state equivalent publisher,
which might produce a cooperative project that would be equitably
distributed around the country, and one in which LC would be dealing with
a minimal number of publishers and minimal copyright problems.

GRABER remarked the recent development in the scientific community of a
willingness to use SGML and either deposit or interchange on a fairly
standardized format.  He wondered if a similar movement was taking place
in the humanities.  Although the National Library of Medicine found only
a few publishers to cooperate in a like venture two or three years ago, a
new effort might generate a much larger number willing to cooperate.

KIMBALL recounted his unit's (Machine-Readable Collections Reading Room)
troubles with the commercial publishers of electronic media in acquiring
materials for LC's collections, in particular the publishers' fear that
they would not be able to cover their costs and would lose control of
their products, that LC would give them away or sell them and make
profits from them.  He doubted that the publishing industry was prepared
to move into this area at the moment, given its resistance to allowing LC
to use its machine-readable materials as the Library would like.

The copyright law now addresses compact disk as a medium, and LC can
request one copy of that, or two copies if it is the only version, and
can request copies of software, but that fails to address magazines or
books or anything like that which is in machine-readable form.

GIFFORD acknowledged the thorny nature of this issue, which he illustrated
with the example of the cumbersome process involved in putting a copy of a
scientific database on a LAN in LC's science reading room.  He also
acknowledged that LC needs help and could enlist the energies and talents
of Workshop participants in thinking through a number of these problems.

GIFFORD returned the discussion to getting the image and text people to
think through together where they want to go in the long term.  MYLONAS
conceded that her experience at the Pierce Symposium the previous week at
Georgetown University and this week at LC had forced her to reevaluate
her perspective on the usefulness of text as images.  MYLONAS framed the
issues in a series of questions:  How do we acquire machine-readable
text?  Do we take pictures of it and perform OCR on it later?  Is it
important to obtain very high-quality images and text, etc.?
FLEISCHHAUER agreed with MYLONAS's framing of strategic questions, adding
that a large institution such as LC probably has to do all of those
things at different times.  Thus, the trick is to exercise judgment.  The
Workshop had added to his and AM's considerations in making those
judgments.  Concerning future meetings or discussions, MYLONAS suggested
that screening priorities would be helpful.

WEIBEL opined that the diversity reflected in this group was a sign both
of the health and of the immaturity of the field, and more time would
have to pass before we convince one another concerning standards.

An exchange between MYLONAS and BATTIN clarified the point that the
driving force behind both the Perseus and the Cornell Xerox projects was
the preservation of knowledge for the future, not simply for particular
research use.  In the case of Perseus, MYLONAS said, the assumption was
that the texts would not be entered again into electronically readable
form.  SPERBERG-McQUEEN added that a scanned image would not serve as an
archival copy for purposes of preservation in the case of, say, the Bill
of Rights, in the sense that the scanned images are effectively the
archival copies for the Cornell mathematics books.


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                          Appendix I:  PROGRAM



                                WORKSHOP
                                   ON
                               ELECTROMRX
                                  GVCGH



                             9-10 QFMV 1992

                           ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH
                            DZHSRMTGLM, W.X.



    HFKKLIGVW YB Z TIZMG UILN GSV WZERW ZMW OFXROV KZXPZIW ULFMWZGRLM


GFVHWZB, 9 QFMV 1992

MZGRLMZO WVNLMHGIZGRLM OZY, ZGIRFN, ORYIZIB NZWRHLM

8:30 ZN   XLUUVV ZMW WZMRHS, IVTRHGIZGRLM

9:00 ZN   DVOXLNV

          KILHHVI TRUULIW, WRIVXGLI ULI HXSLOZIOB KILTIZNH, ZMW XZIO
             UOVRHXSSZFVI, XLLIWRMZGLI, ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB, ORYIZIB LU
             XLMTIVHH

9:O5 ZN   HVHHRLM R.  XLMGVMG RM Z MVD ULIN:  DSL DROO FHV RG ZMW DSZG
          DROO GSVB WL?

          YILZW WVHXIRKGRLM LU GSV IZMTV LU VOVXGILMRX RMULINZGRLM.
          XSZIZXGVIRAZGRLM LU DSL FHVH RG ZMW SLD RG RH LI NZB YV FHVW.
          RM ZWWRGRLM GL Z OLLP ZG HXSLOZIOB FHVH, GSRH HVHHRLM DROO
          RMXOFWV Z KIVHVMGZGRLM LM FHV YB HGFWVMGH (P-12 ZMW XLOOVTV)
          ZMW GSV TVMVIZO KFYORX.

          NLWVIZGLI:  QZNVH WZOB
          ZEIZ NRXSVOHLM, ZIXSREZO IVHVZIXS ZMW VEZOFZGRLM HGZUU,
             MZGRLMZO ZIXSREVH ZMW IVXLIWH ZWNRMRHGIZGRLM (LEVIERVD)
          HFHZM S. EVXXRZ, GVZN OVZWVI, ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB, FHVI VEZOFZGRLM,
             ZMW
          QLZMMV UIVVNZM, ZHHLXRZGV XLLIWRMZGLI, ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB, ORYIZIB
             LU XLMTIVHH (YVBLMW GSV HXSLOZI)

10:30-
11:00 ZN  YIVZP

11:00 ZN  HVHHRLM RR.  HSLD ZMW GVOO.

          VZXS KIVHVMGZGRLM GL XLMHRHG LU Z URUGVVM-NRMFGV
          HGZGVNVMG/HSLD; TILFK WRHXFHHRLM DROO ULOOLD OFMXS.

          NLWVIZGLI:  QZXJFVORMV SVHH, WRIVXGLI, MZGRLMZO WVNLMHGIZGRLM
             OZY

            1.  Z XOZHHRXH KILQVXG, HGIVHHRMT GVCGH ZMW GVCG IVGIRVEZO
                NLIV GSZM NFOGRNVWRZ:  KVIHVFH KILQVXG, SZIEZIW
                FMREVIHRGB
                VOOR NBOLMZH, NZMZTRMT VWRGLI

            2.  LGSVI SFNZMRGRVH KILQVXGH VNKOLBRMT GSV VNVITRMT MLINH LU
                GSV GVCG VMXLWRMT RMRGRZGREV (GVR):  XSZWDBXP-SVZOVB'H
                GSV VMTORHS KLVGIB UFOO GVCG WZGZYZHV ZMW/LI KZGILOLTRZ
                OZGRMZ WZGZYZHV
                VIRX N. XZOZOFXZ, ERXV KIVHRWVMG, XSZWDBXP-SVZOVB, RMX.

            3.  ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB
                XZIO UOVRHXSSZFVI, XLLIWRMZGLI, ZMW
                IRXPB VIDZB, ZHHLXRZGV XLLIWRMZGLI, ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH

            4.  ULFMWRMT UZGSVIH VCZNKOV UILN KZXPZIW SFNZMRGRVH
                RMHGRGFGV:  GSV KZKVIH LU TVLITV DZHSRMTGLM, FMREVIHRGB
                LU ERITRMRZ
                WLILGSB GDLSRT, NZMZTRMT VWRGLI, ZMW/LI
                WZERW DLLWOVB KZXPZIW

            5.  ZM VOVXGILMRX NVWRXZO QLFIMZO LUUVIRMT TIZKSRXH ZMW
                UFOO-GVCG HVZIXSZYRORGB:  GSV LMORMV QLFIMZO LU XFIIVMG
                XORMRXZO GIRZOH, ZNVIRXZM ZHHLXRZGRLM ULI GSV ZWEZMXVNVMG
                LU HXRVMXV
                NZIRZ O. OVYILM, NZMZTRMT VWRGLI

            6.  Z KILQVXG GSZG LUUVIH UZXHRNROV RNZTVH LU KZTVH YFG LNRGH
                HVZIXSZYOV GVCG:  XLIMVOO NZGS YLLPH
                OBMMV P. KVIHLMRFH, ZHHRHGZMG WRIVXGLI, XLIMVOO
                   RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTRVH ULI HXSLOZIOB RMULINZGRLM
                   HLFIXVH, XLIMVOO FMREVIHRGB

12:30 KN  OFMXS  (WRMRMT ILLN Z, ORYIZIB NZWRHLM 620.  VCSRYRGH
          ZEZROZYOV.)

1:30 KN   HVHHRLM RR.  HSLD ZMW GVOO (XLMG'W.).

3:00-
3:30 KN   YIVZP

3:30-
5:30 KN   HVHHRLM RRR.  WRHGIRYFGRLM, MVGDLIPH, ZMW MVGDLIPRMT:  LKGRLMH
          ULI WRHHVNRMZGRLM.

          KFYORHSVW WRHPH:  FMREVIHRGB KIVHHVH ZMW KFYORX-HVXGLI
             KFYORHSVIH, KIREZGV-HVXGLI KFYORHSVIH
          XLNKFGVI MVGDLIPH

          NLWVIZGLI:  ILYVIG T. ARXS, HKVXRZO ZHHRHGZMG GL GSV ZHHLXRZGV
             ORYIZIRZM ULI HKVXRZO KILQVXGH, ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH
          XORUULIW Z. OBMXS, WRIVXGLI, ORYIZIB ZFGLNZGRLM, FMREVIHRGB LU
             XZORULIMRZ
          SLDZIW YVHHVI, HXSLLO LU ORYIZIB ZMW RMULINZGRLM HXRVMXV,
             FMREVIHRGB LU KRGGHYFITS
          ILMZOW O. OZIHVM, ZHHLXRZGV WRIVXGLI LU ORYIZIRVH ULI
             RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTB, FMREVIHRGB LU NZIBOZMW ZG XLOOVTV
             KZIP
          VWDRM Y. YILDMIRTT, VCVXFGREV WRIVXGLI, NVNVC IVHVZIXS
             RMHGRGFGV

6:30 KN   IVXVKGRLM  (NLMGKVORVI ILLN, ORYIZIB NZWRHLM 619.)

                                 ******

DVWMVHWZB, 10 QFMV 1992

WRMRMT ILLN Z, ORYIZIB NZWRHLM 620
