in the planning stages of historical projects, simply because many
historians are aware only in the vaguest way of its existence.  At least
two major new historical editing projects are considering microfilm
editions, simply because they are not aware of the possibilities of
electronic alternatives and the advantages of the new technology in terms
of flexibility and research potential compared to microfilm.  In fact,
too many of us in history and literature are still at the stage of
struggling with our PCs.  There are many historical editorial projects in
progress presently, and an equal number of literary projects.  While the
two fields have somewhat different approaches to textual editing, there
are ways in which electronic technology can be of service to both.

Since few of the editors involved in the Founding Fathers CD-ROM editions
are technical experts in any sense, I hope to point out in my discussion
of our experience how many of these electronic innovations can be used
successfully by scholars who are novices in the world of new technology.
One of the major concerns of the sponsors of the multitude of new
scholarly editions is the limited audience reached by the published
volumes.  Most of these editions are being published in small quantities
and the publishers' price for them puts them out of the reach not only of
individual scholars but of most public libraries and all but the largest
educational institutions.  However, little attention is being given to
ways in which technology can bypass conventional publication to make
historical and literary documents more widely available.

What attracted us most to the CD-ROM edition of The Papers of George
Washington was the fact that David Packard's aim was to make a complete
edition of all of the 135,000 documents we have collected available in an
inexpensive format that would be placed in public libraries, small
colleges, and even high schools.  This would provide an audience far
beyond our present 1,000-copy, $45 published edition.  Since the CD-ROM
edition will carry none of the explanatory annotation that appears in the
published volumes, we also feel that the use of the CD-ROM will lead many
researchers to seek out the published volumes.

In addition to ignorance of new technical advances, I have found that too
many editors--and historians and literary scholars--are resistant and
even hostile to suggestions that electronic technology may enhance their
work.  I intend to discuss some of the arguments traditionalists are
advancing to resist technology, ranging from distrust of the speed with
which it changes (we are already wondering what is out there that is
better than CD-ROM) to suspicion of the technical language used to
describe electronic developments.

Maria LEBRON

The Online Journal of Current Clinical Trials, a joint venture of the
American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) and the Online
Computer Library Center, Inc. (OCLC), is the first peer-reviewed journal
to provide full text, tabular material, and line illustrations on line.
This presentation will discuss the genesis and start-up period of the
journal.  Topics of discussion will include historical overview,
day-to-day management of the editorial peer review, and manuscript
tagging and publication.  A demonstration of the journal and its features
will accompany the presentation.

Lynne PERSONIUS

Cornell University Library, Cornell Information Technologies, and Xerox
Corporation, with the support of the Commission on Preservation and
Access, and Sun Microsystems, Inc., have been collaborating in a project
to test a prototype system for recording brittle books as digital images
and producing, on demand, high-quality archival paper replacements.  The
project goes beyond that, however, to investigate some of the issues
surrounding scanning, storing, retrieving, and providing access to
digital images in a network environment.

The Joint Study in Digital Preservation began in January 1990.  Xerox
provided the College Library Access and Storage System (CLASS) software,
a prototype 600-dots-per-inch (dpi) scanner, and the hardware necessary
to support network printing on the DocuTech printer housed in Cornell's
Computing and Communications Center (CCC).

The Cornell staff using the hardware and software became an integral part
of the development and testing process for enhancements to the CLASS
software system.  The collaborative nature of this relationship is
resulting in a system that is specifically tailored to the preservation
application.

A digital library of 1,000 volumes (or approximately 300,000 images) has
been created and is stored on an optical jukebox that resides in CCC.
The library includes a collection of select mathematics monographs that
provides mathematics faculty with an opportunity to use the electronic
library.  The remaining volumes were chosen for the library to test the
various capabilities of the scanning system.

One project objective is to provide users of the Cornell library and the
library staff with the ability to request facsimiles of digitized images
or to retrieve the actual electronic image for browsing.  A prototype
viewing workstation has been created by Xerox, with input into the design
by a committee of Cornell librarians and computer professionals.  This
will allow us to experiment with patron access to the images that make up
the digital library.  The viewing station provides search, retrieval, and
(ultimately) printing functions with enhancements to facilitate
navigation through multiple documents.

Cornell currently is working to extend access to the digital library to
readers using workstations from their offices.  This year is devoted to
the development of a network resident image conversion and delivery
server, and client software that will support readers who use Apple
Macintosh computers, IBM windows platforms, and Sun workstations.
Equipment for this development was provided by Sun Microsystems with
support from the Commission on Preservation and Access.

During the show-and-tell session of the Workshop on Electronic Texts, a
prototype view station will be demonstrated.  In addition, a display of
original library books that have been digitized will be available for
review with associated printed copies for comparison.  The fifteen-minute
overview of the project will include a slide presentation that
constitutes a "tour" of the preservation digitizing process.

The final network-connected version of the viewing station will provide
library users with another mechanism for accessing the digital library,
and will also provide the XZKZYRORGB LU ERVDRMT RNZTVH WRIVXGOB.  GSRH
DROO MLG IVJFRIV HKVXRZO HLUGDZIV, ZOGSLFTS Z KLDVIUFO XLNKFGVI DRGS TLLW
TIZKSRXH DROO YV MVVWVW.

GSV QLRMG HGFWB RM WRTRGZO KIVHVIEZGRLM SZH TVMVIZGVW Z TIVZG WVZO LU
RMGVIVHG RM GSV ORYIZIB XLNNFMRGB.  FMULIGFMZGVOB, LI KVISZKH
ULIGFMZGVOB, GSRH KILQVXG HVIEVH GL IZRHV Z EZHG MFNYVI LU LGSVI RHHFVH
HFIILFMWRMT GSV FHV LU WRTRGZO GVXSMLOLTB ULI GSV KIVHVIEZGRLM ZMW FHV LU
WVGVIRLIZGRMT ORYIZIB NZGVIRZOH, DSRXS HFYHVJFVMG KILQVXGH DROO MVVW GL
VCZNRMV.  NFXS DLIP IVNZRMH.

HVHHRLM RRR

SLDZIW YVHHVI                      MVGDLIPRMT NFOGRNVWRZ WZGZYZHVH

DSZG WL DV SZEV GL XLMHRWVI RM YFROWRMT ZMW WRHGIRYFGRMT WZGZYZHVH LU
ERHFZO NZGVIRZOH RM Z NFOGR-FHVI VMERILMNVMG?  GSRH KIVHVMGZGRLM VCZNRMVH
Z EZIRVGB LU XLMXVIMH GSZG MVVW GL YV ZWWIVHHVW YVULIV Z NFOGRNVWRZ
WZGZYZHV XZM YV HVG FK RM Z MVGDLIPVW VMERILMNVMG.

RM GSV KZHG RG SZH MLG YVVM UVZHRYOV GL RNKOVNVMG WZGZYZHVH LU ERHFZO
NZGVIRZOH RM HSZIVW-FHVI VMERILMNVMGH YVXZFHV LU GVXSMLOLTRXZO YZIIRVIH.
VZXS LU GSV GDL YZHRX NLWVOH ULI NFOGR-FHVI NFOGRNVWRZ WZGZYZHVH SZH
KLHVW RGH LDM KILYOVN.  GSV ZMZOLT NFOGRNVWRZ HGLIZTV NLWVO (IVKIVHVMGVW
YB KILQVXG ZGSVMZ'H KZIZOOVO ZMZOLT ZMW WRTRGZO MVGDLIPH) SZH IVJFRIVW ZM
RMXIVWRYOB XLNKOVC (ZMW VCKVMHREV) RMUIZHGIFXGFIV.  GSV VXLMLNRVH LU
HXZOV GSZG NZPV NFOGR-FHVI HVGFKH XSVZKVI KVI FHVI HVIEVW WL MLG LKVIZGV
RM ZM VMERILMNVMG GSZG IVJFRIVH Z XLNKFGVI DLIPHGZGRLM, ERWVLWRHX KOZBVI,
ZMW GDL WRHKOZB WVERXVH ULI VZXS FHVI.

GSV WRTRGZO NFOGRNVWRZ HGLIZTV NLWVO SZH IVJFRIVW EZHG ZNLFMGH LU HGLIZTV
HKZXV (ZH NFXS ZH LMV TRTZYBGV KVI GSRIGB HGROO RNZTVH).  RM GSV KZHG GSV
XLHG LU HFXS Z OZITV ZNLFMG LU HGLIZTV HKZXV NZWV GSRH NLWVO Z
KILSRYRGREV XSLRXV ZH DVOO.  YFG KOFMTRMT HGLIZTV XLHGH ZIV URMZOOB
NZPRMT GSRH HVXLMW ZOGVIMZGREV ERZYOV.

RU HGLIZTV ML OLMTVI KLHVH HFXS ZM RNKVWRNVMG, DSZG WL DV MVVW GL
XLMHRWVI RM YFROWRMT WRTRGZOOB HGLIVW NFOGR-FHVI WZGZYZHVH LU ERHFZO
NZGVIRZOH?  GSRH KIVHVMGZGRLM DROO VCZNRMV GSV MVGDLIPRMT ZMW
GVOVXLNNFMRXZGRLM XLMHGIZRMGH GSZG NFHG YV LEVIXLNV YVULIV HFXS WZGZYZHVH
XZM YVXLNV XLNNLMKOZXV ZMW FHVUFO GL Z OZITV MFNYVI LU KVLKOV.

GSV PVB KILYOVN RH GSV EZHG HRAV LU NFOGRNVWRZ WLXFNVMGH, ZMW SLD GSRH
