like all of the projects, include both sides of the Washington
correspondence and deal with some 135,000 documents to be published with
extensive annotation in eighty to eighty-five volumes, a project that
will not be completed until well into the next century.  Thus, it was
with considerable enthusiasm several years ago that the Washington Papers
Project (WPP) greeted David Packard's suggestion that the papers of the
Founding Fathers could be published easily and inexpensively, and to the
great benefit of American scholarship, via CD-ROM.

In pragmatic terms, funding from the Packard Foundation would expedite
the transcription of thousands of documents waiting to be put on disk in
the WPP offices.  Further, since the costs of collecting, editing, and
converting the Founding Fathers documents into letterpress editions were
running into the millions of dollars, and the considerable staffs
involved in all of these projects were devoting their careers to
producing the work, the Packard Foundation's suggestion had a
revolutionary aspect:  Transcriptions of the entire corpus of the
Founding Fathers papers would be available on CD-ROM to public and
college libraries, even high schools, at a fraction of the cost--
$100-$150 for the annual license fee--to produce a limited university
preHH IFM LU 1,000 LU VZXS ELOFNV LU GSV KFYORHSVW KZKVIH ZG $45-$150 KVI
KIRMGVW ELOFNV.  TREVM GSV XFIIVMG YFWTVG XIFMXS RM VWFXZGRLMZO HBHGVNH
ZMW GSV XLIIVHKLMWRMT XLMHGIZRMGH LM ORYIZIRZMH RM HNZOOVI RMHGRGFGRLMH
DSL DRHS GL ZWW GSVHV ELOFNVH GL GSVRI XLOOVXGRLMH, KILWFXRMT GSV
WLXFNVMGH LM XW-ILN DLFOW ORPVOB LKVM Z TIVZGOB VCKZMWVW ZFWRVMXV ULI GSV
KZKVIH.  GDLSRT HGIVHHVW, SLDVEVI, GSZG WVEVOLKNVMG LU GSV ULFMWRMT
UZGSVIH XW-ILN RH HGROO RM RGH RMUZMXB.  HVIRLFH HLUGDZIV KILYOVNH IVNZRM
GL YV IVHLOEVW YVULIV GSV NZGVIRZO XZM YV KFG RMGL IVZWZYOV ULIN.

UFMWRMT UILN GSV KZXPZIW ULFMWZGRLM IVHFOGVW RM Z NZQLI KFHS GL
GIZMHXIRYV GSV 75,000 LI HL WLXFNVMGH LU GSV DZHSRMTGLM KZKVIH IVNZRMRMT
