
Clifford LYNCH, director, Library Automation, University of California,
opened his talk with the general observation that networked information
constituted a difficult and elusive topic because it is something just
starting to develop and not yet fully understood.  LYNCH contended that
creating genuinely networked information was different from using
networks as an access or dissemination vehicle and was more sophisticated
and more subtle.  He invited the members of the audience to extrapolate,
from what they heard about the preceding demonstration projects, to what
sort of a world of elVXGILMRXH RMULINZGRLM--HXSLOZIOB, ZIXSREZO,
XFOGFIZO, VGX.--GSVB DRHSVW GL VMW FK DRGS GVM LI URUGVVM BVZIH UILN MLD.
OBMXS HFTTVHGVW GSZG GL VCGIZKLOZGV WRIVXGOB UILN GSVHV KILQVXGH DLFOW
KILWFXV FMKOVZHZMG IVHFOGH.

KFGGRMT GSV RHHFV LU XW-ILN RM KVIHKVXGREV YVULIV TVGGRMT RMGL
TVMVIZORGRVH LM MVGDLIPVW RMULINZGRLM, OBMXS LYHVIEVW GSZG GSLHV VMTZTVW
RM NFOGRNVWRZ GLWZB DSL DRHS GL HSRK Z KILWFXG, HL GL HZB, KILYZYOB WL
MLG SZEV NFXS XSLRXV VCXVKG GL FHV XW-ILN:  MVGDLIPVW NFOGRNVWRZ LM Z
OZITV HXZOV YZHRXZOOB WLVH MLG BVG DLIP YVXZFHV GSV GVXSMLOLTB WLVH MLG
VCRHG.  ULI VCZNKOV, ZMBYLWB DSL SZH GIRVW NLERMT RNZTVH ZILFMW LEVI GSV
RMGVIMVG PMLDH GSZG GSRH RH ZM VCXRGRMT GLFXS-ZMW-TL KILXVHH, Z
UZHXRMZGRMT ZMW UVIGROV ZIVZ ULI VCKVIRNVMGZGRLM, IVHVZIXS, ZMW
WVEVOLKNVMG, YFG MLG HLNVGSRMT GSZG LMV XZM YVXLNV WVVKOB VMGSFHRZHGRX
ZYLFG XLNNRGGRMT GL KILWFXGRLM HBHGVNH ZG GSRH GRNV.

