LESK argued that the photographers were far ahead of BESSER:  It is
almost impossible to create such digitized photographic collections
except with large organizations like museums, because all the
photographic agencies have been going crazy about this and will not sign
licensing agreements on any sort of reasonable terms.  LESK had heard
that National Geographic, for example, had tried to buy the right to use
some image in some kind of educational production for $100 per image, but
the photographers will not touch it.  They want accounting and payment
for each use, which cannot be accomplished within the system.  BESSER
responded that a consortium of photographers, headed by a former National
Geographic photographer, had started assembling its own collection of
electronic reproductions of images, with the money going back to the
cooperative.

LESK contended that BESSER was unnecessarily pessimistic about multimedia
images, becausV KVLKOV ZIV ZXXFHGLNVW GL OLD-JFZORGB RNZTVH, KZIGRXFOZIOB
UILN ERWVL.  YVHHVI FITVW GSV OZFMXSRMT LU Z HGFWB GL WVGVINRMV DSZG
FHVIH DLFOW GLOVIZGV, DSZG GSVB DLFOW UVVO XLNULIGZYOV DRGS, ZMW DSZG
ZYHLOFGVOB RH GSV SRTSVHG JFZORGB GSVB DLFOW VEVI MVVW.  XLMXVWRMT GSZG
SV SZW ZWLKGVW Z WRIV GLMV RM LIWVI GL ZILFHV KVLKOV ZYLFG GSV RHHFV,
YVHHVI XOLHVW LM Z HZMTFRMV MLGV YB HZBRMT GSZG SV DLFOW MLG YV RM GSRH
YFHRMVHH RU SV WRW MLG GSRMP GSZG GSRMTH XLFOW YV ZXXLNKORHSVW.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
OZIHVM * RHHFVH LU HXZOZYRORGB ZMW NLWFOZIRGB * TVLNVGIRX TILDGS LU GSV
RMGVIMVG ZMW GSV ILOV KOZBVW YB OZBVIRMT * YZHRX UFMXGRLMH HFHGZRMRMT
GSRH TILDGS * Z ORYIZIB'H ILOVH ZMW UFMXGRLMH RM Z MVGDLIP VMERILMNVMG *
VUUVXGH LU RNKOVNVMGZGRLM LU GSV A39.50 KILGLXLO ULI RMULINZGRLM
IVGIRVEZO LM GSV ORYIZIB HBHGVN * GSV GIZWV-LUU YVGDVVM ELOFNVH LU WZGZ
