large eyes full of tears, but said nothing.

  `This here young lady,' said the Gryphon, `she wants for to
know your history, she do.'

  `I'll tell it her,' said the Mock Turtle in a deep, hollow
tone:  `sit down, both of you, and don't speak a word till I've
finished.'

  So they sat down, and nobody spoke for some minutes.  Alice
thought to herself, `I don't see how he can EVEN finish, if he
doesn't begin.'  But she waited patiently.

  `Once,' said the Mock Turtle at last, with a deep sigh, `I was
a real Turtle.'

  These words were followed by a very long silence, broken only
by an occasional exclamation of `Hjckrrh!' from the Gryphon, and
the constant heavy sobbing of the Mock Turtle.  Alice was very
nearly getting up and saying, `Thank you, sir, for your
interesting story,' but she could not help thinking there MUST be
more to come, so she sat still and said nothing.

  `When we were little,' the Mock Turtle went on at last, more
calmly, though still sobbing a little now and then, `we went to
school in the sea.  The master was an old Turtle--we used to call
him Tortoise--'

  `Why did you call him Tortoise, if he wasn't one?' Alice asked.

  `We called him Tortoise because he taught us,' said the Mock
Turtle angrily:  `really you are very dull!'

  `You ought to be ashamed of yourself for asking such a simple
question,' added the Gryphon; and then they both sat silent and
looked at poor Alice, who felt ready to sink into the earth.  At
last the Gryphon said to the Mock Turtle, `Drive on, old fellow!
Don't be all day about it!' and he went on in these words:

  `Yes, we went to school in the sea, though you mayn't believe
it--'

  `I never said I didn't!' interrupted Alice.

  `You did,' said the Mock Turtle.

  `Hold your tongue!' added the Gryphon, before Alice could speak
again.  The Mock Turtle went on.

  `We had the best of educations--in fact, we went to school
every day--'

  `I'VE been to a day-school, too,' said Alice; `you needn't be
so proud as all that.'

  `With extras?' asked the Mock Turtle a little anxiously.

  `Yes,' said Alice, `we learned French and music.'

  `And washing?' said the Mock Turtle.

  `Certainly not!' said Alice indignantly.

  `Ah! then yours wasn't a really good school,' said the Mock
Turtle in a tone of great relief.  `Now at OURS they had at the
end of the bill, "French, music, AND WASHING--extra."'

  `You couldn't have wanted it much,' said Alice; `living at the
bottom of the sea.'

  `I couldn't afford to learn it.' said the Mock Turtle with a
sigh.  `I only took the regular course.'

  `What was that?' inquired Alice.

  `Reeling and Writhing, of course, to begin with,' the Mock
Turtle replied; `and then the different branches of Arithmetic--
Ambition, Distraction, Uglification, and Derision.'

  `I never heard of "Uglification,"' Alice ventured to say.  `What
is it?'

  The Gryphon lifted up both its paws in surprise.  `What!  Never
heard of uglifying!' it exclaimed.  `You know what to beautify
is, I suppose?'

  `Yes,' said Alice doubtfully:  `it means--to--make--anything--
prettier.'

  `Well, then,' the Gryphon went on, `if you don't know what to
uglify is, you ARE a simpleton.'

  Alice did not feel encouraged to ask any more questions about
it, so she turned to the Mock Turtle, and said `What else had you
to learn?'

  `Well, there was Mystery,' the Mock Turtle replied, counting
off the subjects on his flappers, `--Mystery, ancient and modern,
with Seaography:  then Drawling--the Drawling-master was an old
conger-eel, that used to come once a week:  HE taught us
Drawling, Stretching, and Fainting in Coils.'

  `What was THAT like?' said Alice.

  `Well, I can't show it you myself,' the Mock Turtle said:  `I'm
too stiff.  And the Gryphon never learnt it.'

  `Hadn't time,' said the Gryphon:  `I went to the Classics
master, though.  He was an old crab, HE was.'

  `I never went to him,' the Mock Turtle said with a sigh:  `he
taught Laughing and Grief, they used to say.'

  `So he did, so he did,' said the Gryphon, sighing in his turn;
and both creatures hid their faces in their paws.

  `And how many hours a day did you do lessons?' said Alice, in a
hurry to change the subject.

  `Ten hours the first day,' said the Mock Turtle: `nine the
next, and so on.'

  `What a curious plan!' exclaimed Alice.

  `That's the reason they're called lessons,' the Gryphon
remarked:  `because they lessen from day to day.'

  This was quite a new idea to Alice, and she thought it over a
little before she made her next remark.  `Then the eleventh day
must have been a holiday?'

  `Of course it was,' said the Mock Turtle.

  `And how did you manage on the twelfth?' Alice went on eagerly.

  `That's enough about lessons,' the Gryphon interrupted in a
very decided tone:  `tell her something about the games now.'



                            CHAPTER X

                      The Lobster Quadrille


  The Mock Turtle sighed deeply, and drew the back of one flapper
across his eyes.  He looked at Alice, and tried to speak, but for
a minute or two sobs choked his voice.  `Same as if he had a bone
in his throat,' said the Gryphon:  and it set to work shaking him
and punching him in the back.  At last the Mock Turtle recovered
his voice, and, with tears running down his cheeks, he went on
again:--

  `You may not have lived much under the sea--' (`I haven't,'
said Alice)--`and perhaps you were never even introduced to a lobster--'
(Alice began to say `I once tasted--' but checked herself hastily,
and said `No, never') `--so you can have no idea what a delightful
thing a Lobster Quadrille is!'

  `No, indeed,' said Alice.  `What sort of a dance is it?'

  `Why,' said the Gryphon, `you first form into a line along the
sea-shore--'

  `Two lines!' cried the Mock Turtle.  `Seals, turtles, salmon,
and so on; then, when you've cleared all the jelly-fish out of
the way--'

  `THAT generally takes some time,' interrupted the Gryphon.

  `--you advance twice--'

  `Each with a lobster as a partner!' cried the Gryphon.

  `Of course,' the Mock Turtle said:  `advance twice, set to
partners--'

  `--change lobsters, and retire in same order,' continued the
Gryphon.

  `Then, you know,' the Mock Turtle went on, `you throw the--'

  `The lobsters!' shouted the Gryphon, with a bound into the air.

  `--as far out to sea as you can--'

  `Swim after them!' screamed the Gryphon.

  `Turn a somersault in the sea!' cried the Mock Turtle,
capering wildly about.

  `Back to land again, and that's all the first figure,' said the
Mock Turtle, suddenly dropping his voice; and the two creatures,
who had been jumping about like mad things all this time, sat
down again very sadly and quietly, and looked at Alice.

  `It must be a very pretty dance,' said Alice timidly.

  `Would you like to see a little of it?' said the Mock Turtle.

  `Very much indeed,' said Alice.

  `Come, let's try the first figure!' said the Mock Turtle to the
Gryphon.  `We can do without lobsters, you know.  Which shall
sing?'

  `Oh, YOU sing,' said the Gryphon.  `I've forgotten the words.'

  So they began solemnly dancing round and round Alice, every now
and then treading on her toes when they passed too close, and
waving their forepaws to mark the time, while the Mock Turtle
sang this, very slowly and sadly:--


`"Will you walk a little faster?" said a whiting to a snail.
"There's a porpoise close behind us, and he's treading on my
 tail.
See how eagerly the lobsters and the turtles all advance!
They are waiting on the shingle--will you come and join the
dance?

Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, will you join the
dance?
Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, won't you join the
dance?


"You can really have no notion how delightful it will be
When they take us up and throw us, with the lobsters, out to
                                                      sea!"
But the snail replied "Too far, too far!" and gave a look
                                                       askance--
Said he thanked the whiting kindly, but he would not join the
   dance.
    Would not, could not, would not, could not, would not join
        the dance.
    Would not, could not, would not, could not, could not join
        the dance.

`"What matters it how far we go?" his scaly friend replied.
"There is another shore, you know, upon the other side.
The further off from England the nearer is to France--
Then turn not pale, beloved snail, but come and join the dance.

    Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, will you join the
         dance?
    Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, won't you join the
         dance?"'



  `Thank you, it's a very interesting dance to watch,' said
Alice, feeling very glad that it was over at last:  `and I do so
like that curious song about the whiting!'

  `Oh, as to the whiting,' said the Mock Turtle, `they--you've
seen them, of course?'

  `Yes,' said Alice, `I've often seen them at dinn--' she
checked herself hastily.

  `I don't know where Dinn may be,' said the Mock Turtle, `but
if you've seen them so often, of course you know what they're
like.'

  `I believe so,' Alice replied thoughtfully.  `They have their
tails in their mouths--and they're all over crumbs.'

  `You're wrong about the crumbs,' said the Mock Turtle:
`crumbs would all wash off in the sea.  But they HAVE their tails
in their mouths; and the reason is--' here the Mock Turtle
yawned and shut his eyes.--`Tell her about the reason and all
that,' he said to the Gryphon.

  `The reason is,' said the Gryphon, `that they WOULD go with
the lobsters to the dance.  So they got thrown out to sea.  So
they had to fall a long way.  So they got their tails fast in
their mouths.  So they couldn't get them out again.  That's all.'

  `Thank you,' said Alice, `it's very interesting.  I never knew
so much about a whiting before.'

  `I can tell you more than that, if you like,' said the
Gryphon.  `Do you know why it's called a whiting?'

  `I never thought about it,' said Alice.  `Why?'

  `IT DOES THE BOOTS AND SHOES.' the Gryphon replied very
solemnly.

  Alice was thoroughly puzzled.  `Does the boots and shoes!' she
repeated in a wondering tone.

  `Why, what are YOUR shoes done with?' said the Gryphon.  `I
mean, what makes them so shiny?'

  Alice looked down at them, and considered a little before she
gave her answer.  `They're done with blacking, I believe.'

  `Boots and shoes under the sea,' the Gryphon went on in a deep
voice, `are done with a whiting.  Now you know.'

  `And what are they made of?' Alice asked in a tone of great
curiosity.

  `Soles and eels, of course,' the Gryphon replied rather
impatiently:  `any shrimp could have told you that.'

  `If I'd been the whiting,' said Alice, whose thoughts were
still running on the song, `I'd have said to the porpoise, "Keep
back, please:  we don't want YOU with us!"'

  `They were obliged to have him with them,' the Mock Turtle
said:  `no wise fish would go anywhere without a porpoise.'

  `Wouldn't it really?' said Alice in a tone of great surprise.

  `Of course not,' said the Mock Turtle:  `why, if a fish came
to ME, and told me he was going a journey, I should say "With
what porpoise?"'

  `Don't you mean "purpose"?' said Alice.

  `I mean what I say,' the Mock Turtle replied in an offended
tone.  And the Gryphon added `Come, let's hear some of YOUR
adventures.'

  `I could tell you my adventures--beginning from this morning,'
said Alice a little timidly:  `but it's no use going back to
yesterday, because I was a different person then.'

  `Explain all that,' said the Mock Turtle.

  `No, no!  The adventures first,' said the Gryphon in an
impatient tone:  `explanations take such a dreadful time.'

  So Alice began telling them her adventures from the time when
she first saw the White Rabbit.  She was a little nervous about
it just at first, the two creatures got so close to her, one on
each side, and opened their eyes and mouths so VERY wide, but she
gained courage as she went on.  Her listeners were perfectly
quiet till she got to the part about her repeating `YOU ARE OLD,
FATHER WILLIAM,' to the Caterpillar, and the words all coming
different, and then the Mock Turtle drew a long breath, and said
`That's very curious.'

  `It's all about as curious as it can be,' said the Gryphon.

  `It all came different!' the Mock Turtle repeated
thoughtfully.  `I should like to hear her try and repeat
something now.  Tell her to begin.'  He looked at the Gryphon as
if he thought it had some kind of authority over Alice.

  `Stand up and repeat "'TIS THE VOICE OF THE SLUGGARD,"' said
the Gryphon.

  `How the creatures order one about, and make one repeat
lessons!' thought Alice; `I might as well be at school at once.'
However, she got up, and began to repeat it, but her head was so
full of the Lobster JFZWIROOV, GSZG HSV SZIWOB PMVD DSZG HSV DZH
HZBRMT, ZMW GSV DLIWH XZNV EVIB JFVVI RMWVVW:--

    `'GRH GSV ELRXV LU GSV OLYHGVI; R SVZIW SRN WVXOZIV,
    "BLF SZEV YZPVW NV GLL YILDM, R NFHG HFTZI NB SZRI."
    ZH Z WFXP DRGS RGH VBVORWH, HL SV DRGS SRH MLHV
    GIRNH SRH YVOG ZMW SRH YFGGLMH, ZMW GFIMH LFG SRH GLVH.'

              [OZGVI VWRGRLMH XLMGRMFVW ZH ULOOLDH
    DSVM GSV HZMWH ZIV ZOO WIB, SV RH TZB ZH Z OZIP,
    ZMW DROO GZOP RM XLMGVNKGFLFH GLMVH LU GSV HSZIP,
    YFG, DSVM GSV GRWV IRHVH ZMW HSZIPH ZIV ZILFMW,
    SRH ELRXV SZH Z GRNRW ZMW GIVNFOLFH HLFMW.]

  `GSZG'H WRUUVIVMG UILN DSZG R FHVW GL HZB DSVM R DZH Z XSROW,'
HZRW GSV TIBKSLM.

  `DVOO, R MVEVI SVZIW RG YVULIV,' HZRW GSV NLXP GFIGOV; `YFG RG
HLFMWH FMXLNNLM MLMHVMHV.'

  ZORXV HZRW MLGSRMT; HSV SZW HZG WLDM DRGS SVI UZXV RM SVI
SZMWH, DLMWVIRMT RU ZMBGSRMT DLFOW VEVI SZKKVM RM Z MZGFIZO DZB
ZTZRM.

  `R HSLFOW ORPV GL SZEV RG VCKOZRMVW,' HZRW GSV NLXP GFIGOV.

  `HSV XZM'G VCKOZRM RG,' HZRW GSV TIBKSLM SZHGROB.  `TL LM DRGS
GSV MVCG EVIHV.'

  `YFG ZYLFG SRH GLVH?' GSV NLXP GFIGOV KVIHRHGVW.  `SLD XLFOW
SV GFIM GSVN LFG DRGS SRH MLHV, BLF PMLD?'

  `RG'H GSV URIHG KLHRGRLM RM WZMXRMT.' ZORXV HZRW; YFG DZH
WIVZWUFOOB KFAAOVW YB GSV DSLOV GSRMT, ZMW OLMTVW GL XSZMTV GSV
HFYQVXG.

  `TL LM DRGS GSV MVCG EVIHV,' GSV TIBKSLM IVKVZGVW RNKZGRVMGOB:
`RG YVTRMH "R KZHHVW YB SRH TZIWVM."'

  ZORXV WRW MLG WZIV GL WRHLYVB, GSLFTS HSV UVOG HFIV RG DLFOW
ZOO XLNV DILMT, ZMW HSV DVMG LM RM Z GIVNYORMT ELRXV:--

    `R KZHHVW YB SRH TZIWVM, ZMW NZIPVW, DRGS LMV VBV,
    SLD GSV LDO ZMW GSV KZMGSVI DVIV HSZIRMT Z KRV--'

        [OZGVI VWRGRLMH XLMGRMFVW ZH ULOOLDH
    GSV KZMGSVI GLLP KRV-XIFHG, ZMW TIZEB, ZMW NVZG,
    DSROV GSV LDO SZW GSV WRHS ZH RGH HSZIV LU GSV GIVZG.
    DSVM GSV KRV DZH ZOO URMRHSVW, GSV LDO, ZH Z YLLM,
    DZH PRMWOB KVINRGGVW GL KLXPVG GSV HKLLM:
    DSROV GSV KZMGSVI IVXVREVW PMRUV ZMW ULIP DRGS Z TILDO,
    ZMW XLMXOFWVW GSV YZMJFVG--]

  `DSZG RH GSV FHV LU IVKVZGRMT ZOO GSZG HGFUU,' GSV NLXP GFIGOV
RMGVIIFKGVW, `RU BLF WLM'G VCKOZRM RG ZH BLF TL LM?  RG'H YB UZI
GSV NLHG XLMUFHRMT GSRMT R VEVI SVZIW!'

  `BVH, R GSRMP BLF'W YVGGVI OVZEV LUU,' HZRW GSV TIBKSLM:  ZMW
ZORXV DZH LMOB GLL TOZW GL WL HL.

  `HSZOO DV GIB ZMLGSVI URTFIV LU GSV OLYHGVI JFZWIROOV?' GSV
TIBKSLM DVMG LM.  `LI DLFOW BLF ORPV GSV NLXP GFIGOV GL HRMT BLF
Z HLMT?'

  `LS, Z HLMT, KOVZHV, RU GSV NLXP GFIGOV DLFOW YV HL PRMW,'
ZORXV IVKORVW, HL VZTVIOB GSZG GSV TIBKSLM HZRW, RM Z IZGSVI
LUUVMWVW GLMV, `SN! ML ZXXLFMGRMT ULI GZHGVH!  HRMT SVI "GFIGOV
HLFK," DROO BLF, LOW UVOOLD?'

  GSV NLXP GFIGOV HRTSVW WVVKOB, ZMW YVTZM, RM Z ELRXV HLNVGRNVH
XSLPVW DRGS HLYH, GL HRMT GSRH:--


    `YVZFGRUFO HLFK, HL IRXS ZMW TIVVM,
    DZRGRMT RM Z SLG GFIVVM!
    DSL ULI HFXS WZRMGRVH DLFOW MLG HGLLK?
    HLFK LU GSV VEVMRMT, YVZFGRUFO HLFK!
    HLFK LU GSV VEVMRMT, YVZFGRUFO HLFK!
        YVZF--LLGRUFO HLL--LLK!
        YVZF--LLGRUFO HLL--LLK!
    HLL--LLK LU GSV V--V--VEVMRMT,
        YVZFGRUFO, YVZFGRUFO HLFK!

    `YVZFGRUFO HLFK!  DSL XZIVH ULI URHS,
    TZNV, LI ZMB LGSVI WRHS?
    DSL DLFOW MLG TREV ZOO VOHV ULI GDL K
    VMMBDLIGS LMOB LU YVZFGRUFO HLFK?
    KVMMBDLIGS LMOB LU YVZFGRUFO HLFK?
        YVZF--LLGRUFO HLL--LLK!
        YVZF--LLGRUFO HLL--LLK!
    HLL--LLK LU GSV V--V--VEVMRMT,
        YVZFGRUFO, YVZFGR--UFO HLFK!'

  `XSLIFH ZTZRM!' XIRVW GSV TIBKSLM, ZMW GSV NLXP GFIGOV SZW
QFHG YVTFM GL IVKVZG RG, DSVM Z XIB LU `GSV GIRZO'H YVTRMMRMT!'
DZH SVZIW RM GSV WRHGZMXV.

  `XLNV LM!' XIRVW GSV TIBKSLM, ZMW, GZPRMT ZORXV YB GSV SZMW,
RG SFIIRVW LUU, DRGSLFG DZRGRMT ULI GSV VMW LU GSV HLMT.

  `DSZG GIRZO RH RG?' ZORXV KZMGVW ZH HSV IZM; YFG GSV TIBKSLM
LMOB ZMHDVIVW `XLNV LM!' ZMW IZM GSV UZHGVI, DSROV NLIV ZMW NLIV
UZRMGOB XZNV, XZIIRVW LM GSV YIVVAV GSZG ULOOLDVW GSVN, GSV
NVOZMXSLOB DLIWH:--

    `HLL--LLK LU GSV V--V--VEVMRMT,
        YVZFGRUFO, YVZFGRUFO HLFK!'



                           XSZKGVI CR

                      DSL HGLOV GSV GZIGH?


  GSV PRMT ZMW JFVVM LU SVZIGH DVIV HVZGVW LM GSVRI GSILMV DSVM
GSVB ZIIREVW, DRGS Z TIVZG XILDW ZHHVNYOVW ZYLFG GSVN--ZOO HLIGH
LU ORGGOV YRIWH ZMW YVZHGH, ZH DVOO ZH GSV DSLOV KZXP LU XZIWH:
GSV PMZEV DZH HGZMWRMT YVULIV GSVN, RM XSZRMH, DRGS Z HLOWRVI LM
VZXS HRWV GL TFZIW SRN; ZMW MVZI GSV PRMT DZH GSV DSRGV IZYYRG,
DRGS Z GIFNKVG RM LMV SZMW, ZMW Z HXILOO LU KZIXSNVMG RM GSV
LGSVI.  RM GSV EVIB NRWWOV LU GSV XLFIG DZH Z GZYOV, DRGS Z OZITV
WRHS LU GZIGH FKLM RG:  GSVB OLLPVW HL TLLW, GSZG RG NZWV ZORXV
JFRGV SFMTIB GL OLLP ZG GSVN--`R DRHS GSVB'W TVG GSV GIRZO WLMV,'
HSV GSLFTSG, `ZMW SZMW ILFMW GSV IVUIVHSNVMGH!'  YFG GSVIV HVVNVW
GL YV ML XSZMXV LU GSRH, HL HSV YVTZM OLLPRMT ZG VEVIBGSRMT ZYLFG
SVI, GL KZHH ZDZB GSV GRNV.

  ZORXV SZW MVEVI YVVM RM Z XLFIG LU QFHGRXV YVULIV, YFG HSV SZW
IVZW ZYLFG GSVN RM YLLPH, ZMW HSV DZH JFRGV KOVZHVW GL URMW GSZG
HSV PMVD GSV MZNV LU MVZIOB VEVIBGSRMT GSVIV.  `GSZG'H GSV
QFWTV,' HSV HZRW GL SVIHVOU, `YVXZFHV LU SRH TIVZG DRT.'

  GSV QFWTV, YB GSV DZB, DZH GSV PRMT; ZMW ZH SV DLIV SRH XILDM
LEVI GSV DRT, (OLLP ZG GSV UILMGRHKRVXV RU BLF DZMG GL HVV SLD SV
WRW RG,) SV WRW MLG OLLP ZG ZOO XLNULIGZYOV, ZMW RG DZH XVIGZRMOB
MLG YVXLNRMT.

  `ZMW GSZG'H GSV QFIB-YLC,' GSLFTSG ZORXV, `ZMW GSLHV GDVOEV
XIVZGFIVH,' (HSV DZH LYORTVW GL HZB `XIVZGFIVH,' BLF HVV, YVXZFHV
HLNV LU GSVN DVIV ZMRNZOH, ZMW HLNV DVIV YRIWH,) `R HFKKLHV GSVB
ZIV GSV QFILIH.'  HSV HZRW GSRH OZHG DLIW GDL LI GSIVV GRNVH LEVI
GL SVIHVOU, YVRMT IZGSVI KILFW LU RG:  ULI HSV GSLFTSG, ZMW
IRTSGOB GLL, GSZG EVIB UVD ORGGOV TRIOH LU SVI ZTV PMVD GSV
NVZMRMT LU RG ZG ZOO.  SLDVEVI, `QFIB-NVM' DLFOW SZEV WLMV QFHG
ZH DVOO.

  GSV GDVOEV QFILIH DVIV ZOO DIRGRMT EVIB YFHROB LM HOZGVH.
`DSZG ZIV GSVB WLRMT?'  ZORXV DSRHKVIVW GL GSV TIBKSLM.  `GSVB
XZM'G SZEV ZMBGSRMT GL KFG WLDM BVG, YVULIV GSV GIRZO'H YVTFM.'

  `GSVB'IV KFGGRMT WLDM GSVRI MZNVH,' GSV TIBKSLM DSRHKVIVW RM
IVKOB, `ULI UVZI GSVB HSLFOW ULITVG GSVN YVULIV GSV VMW LU GSV
GIRZO.'

  `HGFKRW GSRMTH!' ZORXV YVTZM RM Z OLFW, RMWRTMZMG ELRXV, YFG
HSV HGLKKVW SZHGROB, ULI GSV DSRGV IZYYRG XIRVW LFG, `HROVMXV RM
GSV XLFIG!' ZMW GSV PRMT KFG LM SRH HKVXGZXOVH ZMW OLLPVW
ZMCRLFHOB ILFMW, GL NZPV LFG DSL DZH GZOPRMT.

  ZORXV XLFOW HVV, ZH DVOO ZH RU HSV DVIV OLLPRMT LEVI GSVRI
HSLFOWVIH, GSZG ZOO GSV QFILIH DVIV DIRGRMT WLDM `HGFKRW GSRMTH!'
LM GSVRI HOZGVH, ZMW HSV XLFOW VEVM NZPV LFG GSZG LMV LU GSVN
WRWM'G PMLD SLD GL HKVOO `HGFKRW,' ZMW GSZG SV SZW GL ZHP SRH
MVRTSYLFI GL GVOO SRN.  `Z MRXV NFWWOV GSVRI HOZGVH'OO YV RM
YVULIV GSV GIRZO'H LEVI!' GSLFTSG ZORXV.

  LMV LU GSV QFILIH SZW Z KVMXRO GSZG HJFVZPVW.  GSRH LU XLFIHV,
ZORXV XLFOW MLG HGZMW, ZMW HSV DVMG ILFMW GSV XLFIG ZMW TLG
YVSRMW SRN, ZMW EVIB HLLM ULFMW ZM LKKLIGFMRGB LU GZPRMT RG
ZDZB.  HSV WRW RG HL JFRXPOB GSZG GSV KLLI ORGGOV QFILI (RG DZH
YROO, GSV ORAZIW) XLFOW MLG NZPV LFG ZG ZOO DSZG SZW YVXLNV LU
RG; HL, ZUGVI SFMGRMT ZOO ZYLFG ULI RG, SV DZH LYORTVW GL DIRGV
DRGS LMV URMTVI ULI GSV IVHG LU GSV WZB; ZMW GSRH DZH LU EVIB
ORGGOV FHV, ZH RG OVUG ML NZIP LM GSV HOZGV.

  `SVIZOW, IVZW GSV ZXXFHZGRLM!' HZRW GSV PRMT.

  LM GSRH GSV DSRGV IZYYRG YOVD GSIVV YOZHGH LM GSV GIFNKVG, ZMW
GSVM FMILOOVW GSV KZIXSNVMG HXILOO, ZMW IVZW ZH ULOOLDH:--

    `GSV JFVVM LU SVZIGH, HSV NZWV HLNV GZIGH,
          ZOO LM Z HFNNVI WZB:
      GSV PMZEV LU SVZIGH, SV HGLOV GSLHV GZIGH,
          ZMW GLLP GSVN JFRGV ZDZB!'

  `XLMHRWVI BLFI EVIWRXG,' GSV PRMT HZRW GL GSV QFIB.

  `MLG BVG, MLG BVG!' GSV IZYYRG SZHGROB RMGVIIFKGVW.  `GSVIV'H
Z TIVZG WVZO GL XLNV YVULIV GSZG!'

  `XZOO GSV URIHG DRGMVHH,' HZRW GSV PRMT; ZMW GSV DSRGV IZYYRG
YOVD GSIVV YOZHGH LM GSV GIFNKVG, ZMW XZOOVW LFG, `URIHG
DRGMVHH!'

  GSV URIHG DRGMVHH DZH GSV SZGGVI.  SV XZNV RM DRGS Z GVZXFK RM
LMV SZMW ZMW Z KRVXV LU YIVZW-ZMW-YFGGVI RM GSV LGSVI.  `R YVT
KZIWLM, BLFI NZQVHGB,' SV YVTZM, `ULI YIRMTRMT GSVHV RM:  YFG R
SZWM'G JFRGV URMRHSVW NB GVZ DSVM R DZH HVMG ULI.'

  `BLF LFTSG GL SZEV URMRHSVW,' HZRW GSV PRMT.  `DSVM WRW BLF
YVTRM?'

  GSV SZGGVI OLLPVW ZG GSV NZIXS SZIV, DSL SZW ULOOLDVW SRN RMGL
GSV XLFIG, ZIN-RM-ZIN DRGS GSV WLINLFHV.  `ULFIGVVMGS LU NZIXS, R
GSRMP RG DZH,' SV HZRW.

  `URUGVVMGS,' HZRW GSV NZIXS SZIV.

  `HRCGVVMGS,' ZWWVW GSV WLINLFHV.

  `DIRGV GSZG WLDM,' GSV PRMT HZRW GL GSV QFIB, ZMW GSV QFIB
VZTVIOB DILGV WLDM ZOO GSIVV WZGVH LM GSVRI HOZGVH, ZMW GSVM
ZWWVW GSVN FK, ZMW IVWFXVW GSV ZMHDVI GL HSROORMTH ZMW KVMXV.

  `GZPV LUU BLFI SZG,' GSV PRMT HZRW GL GSV SZGGVI.

  `RG RHM'G NRMV,' HZRW GSV SZGGVI.

  `HGLOVM!' GSV PRMT VCXOZRNVW, GFIMRMT GL GSV QFIB, DSL
RMHGZMGOB NZWV Z NVNLIZMWFN LU GSV UZXG.

