
	To you I give myself, for I am yours.

DUKE SENIOR	If there be truth in sight, you are my daughter.

ORLANDO	If there be truth in sight, you are my Rosalind.

PHEBE	If sight and shape be true,
	Why then, my love adieu!

ROSALIND	I'll have no father, if you be not he:
	I'll have no husband, if you be not he:
	Nor ne'er wed woman, if you be not she.

HYMEN	        Peace, ho! I bar confusion:
	'Tis I must make conclusion
	Of these most strange events:
	Here's eight that must take hands
	To join in Hymen's bands,
	If truth holds true contents.
	You and you no cross shall part:
	You and you are heart in heart
	You to his love must accord,
	Or have a woman to your lord:
	You and you are sure together,
	As the winter to foul weather.
	Whiles a wedlock-hymn we sing,
	Feed yourselves with questioning;
	That reason wonder may diminish,
	How thus we met, and these things finish.

	SONG.
	Wedding is great Juno's crown:
	O blessed bond of board and bed!
	'Tis Hymen peoples every town;
	High wedlock then be honoured:
	Honour, high honour and renown,
	To Hymen, god of every town!

DUKE SENIOR	O my dear niece, welcome thou art to me!
	Even daughter, welcome, in no less degree.

PHEBE	I will not eat my word, now thou art mine;
	Thy faith my fancy to thee doth combine.

	[Enter JAQUES DE BOYS]

JAQUES DE BOYS	Let me have audience for a word or two:
	I am the second son of old Sir Rowland,
	That bring these tidings to this fair assembly.
	Duke Frederick, hearing how that every day
	Men of great worth resorted to this forest,
	Address'd a mighty power; which were on foot,
	In his own conduct, purposely to take
	His brother here and put him to the sword:
	And to the skirts of this wild wood he came;
	Where meeting with an old religious man,
	After some question with him, was converted
	Both from his enterprise and from the world,
	His crown bequeathing to his banish'd brother,
	And all their lands restored to them again
	That were with him exiled. This to be true,
	I do engage my life.

DUKE SENIOR	Welcome, young man;
	Thou offer'st fairly to thy brothers' wedding:
	To one his lands withheld, and to the other
	A land itself at large, a potent dukedom.
	First, in this forest, let us do those ends
	That here were well begun and well begot:
	And after, every of this happy number
	That have endured shrewd days and nights with us
	Shall share the good of our returned fortune,
	According to the measure of their states.
	Meantime, forget this new-fall'n dignity
	And fall into our rustic revelry.
	Play, music! And you, brides and bridegrooms all,
	With measure heap'd in joy, to the measures fall.

JAQUES	Sir, by your patience. If I heard you rightly,
	The duke hath put on a religious life
	And thrown into neglect the pompous court?

JAQUES DE BOYS	He hath.

JAQUES	To him will I : out of these convertites
	There is much matter to be heard and learn'd.

	[To DUKE SENIOR]

	You to your former honour I bequeath;
	Your patience and your virtue well deserves it:

	[To ORLANDO]

	You to a love that your true faith doth merit:

	[To OLIVER]

	You to your land and love and great allies:

	[To SILVIUS]

	You to a long and well-deserved bed:

	[To TOUCHSTONE]

	And you to wrangling; for thy loving voyage
	Is but for two months victuall'd. So, to your pleasures:
	I am for other than for dancing measures.

DUKE SENIOR	Stay, Jaques, stay.

JAQUES	To see no pastime I	what you would have
	I'll stay to know at your abandon'd cave.

	[Exit]

DUKE SENIOR	Proceed, proceed: we will begin these rites,
	As we do trust they'll end, in true delights.

	[A dance]




	AS YOU LIKE IT

	EPILOGUE


ROSALIND	It is not the fashion to see the lady the epilogue;
	but it is no more unhandsome than to see the lord
	the prologue. If it be true that good wine needs
	no bush, 'tis true that a good play needs no
	epilogue; yet to good wine they do use good bushes,
	and good plays prove the better by the help of good
	epilogues. What a case am I in then, that am
	neither a good epilogue nor cannot insinuate with
	you in the behalf of a good play! I am not
	furnished like a beggar, therefore to beg will not
	become me: my way is to conjure you; and I'll begin
	with the women. I charge you, O women, for the love
	you bear to men, to like as much of this play as
	please you: and I charge you, O men, for the love
	you bear to women--as I perceive by your simpering,
	none of you hates them--that between you and the
	women the play may please. If I were a woman I
	would kiss as many of you as had beards that pleased
	me, complexions that liked me and breaths that I
	defied not: and, I am sure, as many as have good
	beards or good faces or sweet breaths will, for my
	kind offer, when I make curtsy, bid me farewell.

	[Exeunt]


The Project Gutenberg Etext of LOC WORKSHOP ON ELECTRONIC TEXTS




                      WORKSHOP ON ELECTRONIC TEXTS

                               PROCEEDINGS



                          Edited by James Daly







                             9-10 June 1992


                           Library of Congress
                            Washington, D.C.



    Supported by a Grant from the David and Lucile Packard Foundation


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                            TABLE OF CONTENTS


Acknowledgements

Introduction

Proceedings
   Welcome
      Prosser Gifford and Carl Fleischhauer

   Session I.  Content in a New Form:  Who Will Use It and What Will They Do?
      James Daly (Moderator)
      Avra Michelson, Overview
      Susan H. Veccia, User Evaluation
      Joanne Freeman, Beyond the Scholar
         Discussion

   Session II.  Show and Tell
      Jacqueline Hess (Moderator)
      Elli Mylonas, Perseus Project
         Discussion
      Eric M. Calaluca, Patrologia Latina Database
      Carl Fleischhauer and Ricky Erway, American Memory
         Discussion
      Dorothy Twohig, The Papers of George Washington
         Discussion
      Maria L. Lebron, The Online Journal of Current Clinical Trials
         Discussion
      Lynne K. Personius, Cornell mathematics books
         Discussion

   Session III.  Distribution, Networks, and Networking:
                 Options for Dissemination
      Robert G. Zich (Moderator)
      Clifford A. Lynch
         Discussion
      Howard Besser
         Discussion
      Ronald L. Larsen
      Edwin B. Brownrigg
         Discussion

   Session IV.  Image Capture, Text Capture, Overview of Text and
                Image Storage Formats
         William L. Hooton (Moderator)
      A) Principal Methods for Image Capture of Text:
            direct scanning, use of microform
         Anne R. Kenney
         Pamela Q.J. Andre
         Judith A. Zidar
         Donald J. Waters
            Discussion
      B) Special Problems:  bound volumes, conservation,
                            reproducing printed halftones
         George Thoma
         Carl Fleischhauer
            Discussion
      C) Image Standards and Implications for Preservation
         Jean Baronas
         Patricia Battin
            Discussion
      D) Text Conversion:  OCR vs. rekeying, standards of accuracy
                           and use of imperfect texts, service bureaus
         Michael Lesk
         Ricky Erway
         Judith A. Zidar
            Discussion

   Session V.  Approaches to Preparing Electronic Texts
      Susan Hockey (Moderator)
      Stuart Weibel
         Discussion
      C.M. Sperberg-McQueen
         Discussion
      Eric M. Calaluca
         Discussion

   Session VI.  Copyright Issues
      Marybeth Peters

   Session VII.  Conclusion
      Prosser Gifford (Moderator)
      General discussion

Appendix I:  Program

Appendix II:  Abstracts

Appendix III:  Directory of Participants


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                            Acknowledgements

I would like to thank Carl Fleischhauer and Prosser Gifford for the
opportunity to learn about areas of human activity unknown to me a scant
ten months ago, and the David and Lucile Packard Foundation for
supporting that opportunity.  The help given by others is acknowledged on
a separate page.

                                                          19 October 1992


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                              INTRODUCTION

The Workshop on Electronic Texts (1) drew together representatives of
various projects and interest groups to compare ideas, beliefs,
experiences, and, in particular, methods of placing and presenting
historical textual materials in computerized form.  Most attendees gained
much in insight and outlook from the event.  But the assembly did not
form a new nation, or, to put it another way, the diversity of projects
and interests was too great to draw the representatives into a cohesive,
action-oriented body.(2)

Everyone attending the Workshop shared an interest in preserving and
providing access to historical texts.  But within this broad field the
attendees represented a variety of formal, informal, figurative, and
literal groups, with many individuals belonging to more than one.  These
groups may be defined roughly according to the following topics or
activities:

* Imaging
* Searchable coded texts
* National and international computer networks
* CD-ROM production and dissemination
* Methods and technology for converting older paper materials into
electronic form
* Study of the use of digital materials by scholars and others

This summary is arranged thematically and does not follow the actual
sequence of presentations.

NOTES:
     (1)  In this document, the phrase electronic text is used to mean
     any computerized reproduction or version of a document, book,
     article, or manuscript (including images), and not merely a machine-
     readable or machine-searchable text.

     (2)  The Workshop was held at the Library of Congress on 9-10 June
     1992, with funding from the David and Lucile Packard Foundation.
     The document that follows represents a summary of the presentations
     made at the Workshop and was compiled by James DALY.  This
     introduction was written by DALY and Carl FLEISCHHAUER.


PRESERVATION AND IMAGING

Preservation, as that term is used by archivists,(3) was most explicitly
discussed in the context of imaging.  Anne KENNEY and Lynne PERSONIUS
explained how the concept of a faithful copy and the user-friendliness of
the traditional book have guided their project at Cornell University.(4)
Although interested in computerized dissemination, participants in the
Cornell project are creating digital image sets of older books in the
public domain as a source for a fresh paper facsimile or, in a future
phase, microfilm.  The books returned to the library shelves are
high-quality and useful replacements on acid-free paper that should last
a long time.  To date, the Cornell project has placed little or no
emphasis on creating searchable texts; one would not be surprised to find
that the project participants view such texts as new editions, and thus
not as faithful reproductions.

In her talk on preservation, Patricia BATTIN struck an ecumenical and
flexible note as she endorsed the creation and dissemination of a variety
of types of digital copies.  Do not be too narrow in defining what counts
as a preservation element, BATTIN counseled; for the present, at least,
digital copies made with preservation in mind cannot be as narrowly
standardized as, say, microfilm copies with the same objective.  Setting
standards precipitously can inhibit creativity, but delay can result in
chaos, she advised.

In part, BATTIN's position reflected the unsettled nature of image-format
standards, and attendees could hear echoes of this unsettledness in the
comments of various speakers.  For example, Jean BARONAS reviewed the
status of several formal standards moving through committees of experts;
and Clifford LYNCH encouraged the use of a new guideline for transmitting
document images on Internet.  Testimony from participants in the National
Agricultural Library's (NAL) Text Digitization Program and LC's American
Memory project highlighted some of the challenges to the actual creation
or interchange of images, including difficulties in converting
preservation microfilm to digital form.  Donald WATERS reported on the
progress of a master plan for a project at Yale University to convert
books on microfilm to digital image sets, Project Open Book (POB).

The Workshop offered rather less of an imaging practicum than planned,
but "how-to" hints emerge at various points, for example, throughout
KENNEY's presentation and in the discussion of arcana such as
thresholding and dithering offered by George THOMA and FLEISCHHAUER.

NOTES:
     (3)  Although there is a sense in which any reproductions of
     historical materials preserve the human record, specialists in the
     field have developed particular guidelines for the creation of
     acceptable preservation copies.

     (4)  Titles and affiliations of presenters are given at the
     beginning of their respective talks and in the Directory of
     Participants (Appendix III).


THE MACHINE-READABLE TEXT:  MARKUP AND USE

The sections of the Workshop that dealt with machine-readable text tended
to be more concerned with access and use than with preservation, at least
in the narrow technical sense.  Michael SPERBERG-McQUEEN made a forceful
presentation on the Text Encoding Initiative's (TEI) implementation of
the Standard Generalized Markup Language (SGML).  His ideas were echoed
by Susan HOCKEY, Elli MYLONAS, and Stuart WEIBEL.  While the
presentations made by the TEI advocates contained no practicum, their
discussion focused on the value of the finished product, what the
European Community calls reusability, but what may also be termed
durability.  They argued that marking up--that is, coding--a text in a
well-conceived way will permit it to be moved from one computer
environment to another, as well as to be used by various users.  Two
kinds of markup were distinguished:  1) procedural markup, which
describes the features of a text (e.g., dots on a page), and 2)
descriptive markup, which describes the structure or elements of a
document (e.g., chapters, paragraphs, and front matter).

The TEI proponents emphasized the importance of texts to scholarship.
They explained how heavily coded (and thus analyzed and annotated) texts
can underlie research, play a role in scholarly communication, and
facilitate classroom teaching.  SPERBERG-McQUEEN reminded listeners that
a written or printed item (e.g., a particular edition of a book) is
merely a representation of the abstraction we call a text.  To concern
ourselves with faithfully reproducing a printed instance of the text,
SPERBERG-McQUEEN argued, is to concern ourselves with the representation
of a representation ("images as simulacra for the text").  The TEI proponents'
interest in images tends to focus on corollary materials for use in teaching,
for example, photographs of the Acropolis to accompany a Greek text.

By the end of the Workshop, SPERBERG-McQUEEN confessed to having been
converted to a limited extent to the view that electronic images
constitute a promising alternative to microfilming; indeed, an
alternative probably superior to microfilming.  But he was not convinced
that electronic images constitute a serious attempt to represent text in
electronic form.  HOCKEY and MYLONAS also conceded that their experience
at the Pierce Symposium the previous week at Georgetown University and
the present conference at the Library of Congress had compelled them to
reevaluate their perspective on the usefulness of text as images.
Attendees could see that the text and image advocates were in
constructive tension, so to say.

Three nonTEI presentations described approaches to preparing
machine-readable text that are less rigorous and thus less expensive.  In
the case of the Papers of George Washington, Dorothy TWOHIG explained
that the digital version will provide a not-quite-perfect rendering of
the transcribed text--some 135,000 documents, available for research
during the decades while the perfect or print version is completed.
Members of the American Memory team and the staff of NAL's Text
Digitization Program (see below) also outlined a middle ground concerning
searchable texts.  In the case of American Memory, contractors produce
texts with about 99-percent accuracy that serve as "browse" or
"reference" versions of written or printed originals.  End users who need
faithful copies or perfect renditions must refer to accompanying sets of
digital facsimile images or consult copies of the originals in a nearby
library or archive.  American Memory staff argued that the high cost of
producing 100-percent accurate copies would prevent LC from offering
access to large parts of its collections.


THE MACHINE-READABLE TEXT:  METHODS OF CONVERSION

Although the Workshop did not include a systematic examination of the
methods for converting texts from paper (or from facsimile images) into
machine-readable form, nevertheless, various speakers touched upon this
matter.  For example, WEIBEL reported that OCLC has experimented with a
merging of multiple optical character recognition systems that will
reduce errors from an unacceptable rate of 5 characters out of every
l,000 to an unacceptable rate of 2 characters out of every l,000.

Pamela ANDRE presented an overview of NAL's Text Digitization Program and
Judith ZIDAR discussed the technical details.  ZIDAR explained how NAL
purchased hardware and software capable of performing optical character
recognition (OCR) and text conversion and used its own staff to convert
texts.  The process, ZIDAR said, required extensive editing and project
staff found themselves considering alternatives, including rekeying
and/or creating abstracts or summaries of texts.  NAL reckoned costs at
$7 per page.  By way of contrast, Ricky ERWAY explained that American
Memory had decided from the start to contract out conversion to external
service bureaus.  The criteria used to select these contractors were cost
and quality of results, as opposed to methods of conversion.  ERWAY noted
that historical documents or books often do not lend themselves to OCR.
Bound materials represent a special problem.  In her experience, quality
control--inspecting incoming materials, counting errors in samples--posed
the most time-consuming aspect of contracting out conversion.  ERWAY
reckoned American Memory's costs at $4 per page, but cautioned that fewer
cost-elements had been included than in NAL's figure.


OPTIONS FOR DISSEMINATION

The topic of dissemination proper emerged at various points during the
Workshop.  At the session devoted to national and international computer
networks, LYNCH, Howard BESSER, Ronald LARSEN, and Edwin BROWNRIGG
highlighted the virtues of Internet today and of the network that will
evolve from Internet.  Listeners could discern in these narratives a
vision of an information democracy in which millions of citizens freely
find and use what they need.  LYNCH noted that a lack of standards
inhibits disseminating multimedia on the network, a topic also discussed
by BESSER.  LARSEN addressed the issues of network scalability and
modularity and commented upon the difficulty of anticipating the effects
of growth in orders of magnitude.  BROWNRIGG talked about the ability of
packet radio to provide certain links in a network without the need for
wiring.  However, the presenters also called attention to the
shortcomings and incongruities of present-day computer networks.  For
example:  1) Network use is growing dramatically, but much network
traffic consists of personal communication (E-mail).  2) Large bodies of
information are available, but a user's ability to search across their
entirety is limited.  3) There are significant resources for science and
technology, but few network sources provide content in the humanities.
4) Machine-readable texts are commonplace, but the capability of the
system to deal with images (let alone other media formats) lags behind.
A glimpse of a multimedia future for networks, however, was provided by
Maria LEBRON in her overview of the Online Journal of Current Clinical
Trials (OJCCT), and the process of scholarly publishing on-line.

The contrasting form of the CD-ROM disk was never systematically
analyzed, but attendees could glean an impression from several of the
show-and-tell presentations.  The Perseus and American Memory examples
demonstrated recently published disks, while the descriptions of the
IBYCUS version of the Papers of George Washington and Chadwyck-Healey's
Patrologia Latina Database (PLD) told of disks to come.  According to
Eric CALALUCA, PLD's principal focus has been on converting Jacques-Paul
Migne's definitive collection of Latin texts to machine-readable form.
Although everyone could share the network advocates' enthusiasm for an
on-line future, the possibility of rolling up one's sleeves for a session
with a CD-ROM containing both textual materials and a powerful retrieval
engine made the disk seem an appealing vessel indeed.  The overall
discussion suggested that the transition from CD-ROM to on-line networked
access may prove far slower and more difficult than has been anticipated.


WHO ARE THE USERS AND WHAT DO THEY DO?

Although concerned with the technicalities of production, the Workshop
never lost sight of the purposes and uses of electronic versions of
textual materials.  As noted above, those interested in imaging discussed
the problematical matter of digital preservation, while the TEI proponents
described how machine-readable texts can be used in research.  This latter
topic received thorough treatment in the paper read by Avra MICHELSON.
She placed the phenomenon of electronic texts within the context of
broader trends in information technology and scholarly communication.

Among other things, MICHELSON described on-line conferences that
represent a vigorous and important intellectual forum for certain
disciplines.  Internet now carries more than 700 conferences, with about
80 percent of these devoted to topics in the social sciences and the
humanities.  Other scholars use on-line networks for "distance learning."
Meanwhile, there has been a tremendous growth in end-user computing;
professors today are less likely than their predecessors to ask the
campus computer center to process their data.  Electronic texts are one
key to these sophisticated applications, MICHELSON reported, and more and
more scholars in the humanities now work in an on-line environment.
Toward the end of the Workshop, Michael LESK presented a corollary to
MICHELSON's talk, reporting the results of an experiment that compared
the work of one group of chemistry students using traditional printed
texts and two groups using electronic sources.  The experiment
demonstrated that in the event one does not know what to read, one needs
the electronic systems; the electronic systems hold no advantage at the
moment if one knows what to read, but neither do they impose a penalty.

DALY provided an anecdotal account of the revolutionizing impact of the
new technology on his previous methods of research in the field of classics.
His account, by extrapolation, served to illustrate in part the arguments
made by MICHELSON concerning the positive effects of the sudden and radical
transformation being wrought in the ways scholars work.

Susan VECCIA and Joanne FREEMAN delineated the use of electronic
materials outside the university.  The most interesting aspect of their
use, FREEMAN said, could be seen as a paradox:  teachers in elementary
and secondary schools requested access to primary source materials but,
at the same time, found that "primariness" itself made these materials
difficult for their students to use.


OTHER TOPICS

Marybeth PETERS reviewed copyright law in the United States and offered
advice during a lively discussion of this subject.  But uncertainty
remains concerning the price of copyright in a digital medium, because a
solution remains to be worked out concerning management and synthesis of
copyrighted and out-of-copyright pieces of a database.

As moderator of the final sessioM LU GSV DLIPHSLK, KILHHVI TRUULIW WRIVXGVW
WRHXFHHRLM GL UFGFIV XLFIHVH LU ZXGRLM ZMW GSV KLGVMGRZO ILOV LU OX RM
ZWEZMXRMT GSVN.  ZNLMT GSV IVXLNNVMWZGRLMH GSZG VNVITVW DVIV GSV ULOOLDRMT:

     * DLIPHSLK KZIGRXRKZMGH HSLFOW 1) YVTRM GL GSRMP ZYLFG DLIPRMT
     DRGS RNZTV NZGVIRZO, YFG HGIFXGFIV ZMW WRTRGRAV RG RM HFXS Z
     DZB GSZG ZG Z OZGVI HGZTV RG XZM YV RMGVIKIVGVW RMGL GVCG, ZMW
     2) URMW Z XLNNLM DZB GL YFROW GVCG ZMW RNZTVH GLTVGSVI HL GSZG
     GSVB XZM YV FHVW QLRMGOB ZG HLNV HGZTV RM GSV UFGFIV, DRGS
     ZKKILKIRZGV MVGDLIP HFKKLIG, YVXZFHV GSZG RH SLD FHVIH DROO DZMG
     GL ZXXVHH GSVHV NZGVIRZOH.  GSV ORYIZIB NRTSG VMXLFIZTV ZGGVNKGH
     GL YIRMT GLTVGSVI KVLKOV DSL ZIV DLIPRMT LM GVCGH ZMW RNZTVH.

     * Z MVGDLIP EVIHRLM LU ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB HSLFOW YV WVEVOLKVW LI
     XLMHRWVIZGRLM HSLFOW YV TREVM GL NZPRMT GSV WZGZ RM RG
     ZEZROZYOV GL KVLKOV RMGVIVHGVW RM WLRMT MVGDLIP NFOGRNVWRZ.
     TREVM GSV XFIIVMG WVZIGS LU WRTRGZO WZGZ GSZG RH ZKKVZORMT ZMW
     FMVMXFNYVIVW YB VCGIVNVOB XLNKOVC IRTSGH KILYOVNH, WVEVOLKRMT Z
     MVGDLIP EVIHRLM LU ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB XLFOW WL NFXS GL SVOK NZPV
     MVGDLIP NFOGRNVWRZ Z IVZORGB.

     * XLMXVIMRMT GSV GSLIMB RHHFV LU VOVXGILMRX WVKLHRG, OX HSLFOW
     RMRGRZGV Z XZGZOBGRX KILXVHH RM GVINH LU WRHGIRYFGVW
     IVHKLMHRYRORGB, GSZG RH, YIRMT GLTVGSVI GSV WRHGIRYFGVW
     LITZMRAZGRLMH ZMW HVG FK Z HGFWB TILFK GL OLLP ZG ZOO GSV
     RHHFVH IVOZGVW GL VOVXGILMRX WVKLHRG ZMW HVV DSVIV DV ZH Z
     MZGRLM HSLFOW NLEV.  ULI VCZNKOV, OX NRTSG ZGGVNKG GL KVIHFZWV
     LMV NZQLI ORYIZIB RM VZXS HGZGV GL WVZO DRGS RGH HGZGV
     VJFREZOVMG KFYORHSVI, DSRXS NRTSG KILWFXV Z XLLKVIZGREV KILQVXG
     GSZG DLFOW YV VJFRGZYOB WRHGIRYFGVW ZILFMW GSV XLFMGIB, ZMW LMV
     RM DSRXS OX DLFOW YV WVZORMT DRGS Z NRMRNZO MFNYVI LU KFYORHSVIH
     ZMW NRMRNZO XLKBIRTSG KILYOVNH.  OX NFHG ZOHL WVZO DRGS GSV
     XLMXVKG LU LM-ORMV KFYORHSRMT, WVGVINRMRMT, ZNLMT LGSVI GSRMTH,
     SLD HVIRZOH HFXS ZH LQXXG NRTSG YV WVKLHRGVW ULI XLKBIRTSG.

     * HRMXV Z MFNYVI LU KILQVXGH ZIV KOZMMRMT GL XZIIB LFG
     KIVHVIEZGRLM YB XIVZGRMT WRTRGZO RNZTVH GSZG DROO VMW FK RM
     LM-ORMV LI MVZI-ORMV HGLIZTV ZG HLNV RMHGRGFGRLM, OX NRTSG KOZB
     Z SVOKUFO ILOV, ZG OVZHG RM GSV MVZI GVIN, YB ZXXVOVIZGRMT SLD
     GL XZGZOLT GSZG RMULINZGRLM RMGL GSV IVHVZIXS ORYIZIB RMULINZGRLM
     MVGDLIP (IORM) ZMW GSVM RMGL LXOX, HL GSZG RG DLFOW YV ZXXVHHRYOV.
     GSRH DLFOW IVWFXV GSV KLHHRYRORGB LU NFOGRKOV RMHGRGFGRLMH WRTRGRARMT
     GSV HZNV DLIP.


XLMXOFHRLM

GSV DLIPHSLK DZH EZOFZYOV YVXZFHV RG YILFTSG GLTVGSVI KZIGRHZMH UILN
EZIRLFH TILFKH ZMW KILERWVW ZM LXXZHRLM GL XLNKZIV TLZOH ZMW NVGSLWH.
GSV NLIV XLNNRGGVW KZIGRHZMH UIVJFVMGOB XLNNFMRXZGV DRGS LGSVIH RM GSVRI
TILFKH, YFG OVHH LUGVM ZXILHH TILFK YLFMWZIRVH.  GSV DLIPHSLK DZH ZOHL
EZOFZYOV GL ZGGVMWVVH--RMXOFWRMT GSLHV RMELOEVW DRGS ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB--DSL
XZNV OVHH XLNNRGGVW GL KZIGRXFOZI ZKKILZXSVH LI XLMXVKGH.  GSVHV
ZGGVMWVVH OVZIMVW Z TIVZG WVZO, ZMW KOZM GL HVOVXG ZMW VNKOLB VOVNVMGH LU
RNZTRMT, GVCG-XLWRMT, ZMW MVGDLIPVW WRHGIRYFGRLM GSZG HFRG GSVRI
IVHKVXGREV KILQVXGH ZMW KFIKLHVH.

HGROO, IVZORGB IVZIH RGH FTOB SVZW:  ML YIVZPGSILFTS SZH YVVM ZXSRVEVW.
LM GSV RNZTRMT HRWV, LMV XLMUILMGH Z KILORUVIZGRLM LU XLNKVGRMT
WZGZ-RMGVIXSZMTV HGZMWZIWH ZMW Z OZXP LU XLMHVMHFH LM GSV ILOV LU WRTRGZO
UZXHRNROVH RM KIVHVIEZGRLM.  RM GSV IVZON LU NZXSRMV-IVZWZYOV GVCGH, LMV
VMXLFMGVIH Z IVZHLMZYOB NZGFIV HGZMWZIW YFG NVGSLWLOLTRXZO WRUURXFOGRVH
ZMW SRTS XLHGH.  GSVHV OZGGVI KILYOVNH, LU XLFIHV, IVKIVHVMG Z HKVXRZO
RNKVWRNVMG GL GSV WVHRIV, ZH RG RH HLNVGRNVH VCKIVHHVW RM GSV KLKFOZI
KIVHH, "GL KFG GSV [XLMGVMGH LU GSV] ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH LM ORMV."  RM
GSV DLIWH LU LMV KZIGRXRKZMG, GSVIV DZH "ML HLOFGRLM GL GSV VXLMLNRX
KILYOVNH--GSV KILQVXGH GSZG ZIV LFG GSVIV ZIV HFIERERMT, YFG RG RH TLRMT
GL YV Z OLG LU DLIP GL GIZMHULIN GSV RMULINZGRLM RMWFHGIB, ZMW HL UZI GSV
RMEVHGNVMG GL WL GSZG RH MLG ULIGSXLNRMT" (OVHP, KVI ORGGVIZH).


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                               KILXVVWRMTH


DVOXLNV

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
TRUULIW * LIRTRM LU DLIPHSLK RM XFIIVMG ORYIZIRZM'H WVHRIV GL NZPV OX'H
XLOOVXGRLMH NLIV DRWVOB ZEZROZYOV * WVHRWVIZGZ ZIRHRMT UILN GSV KILHKVXG
LU TIVZGVI RMGVIXLMMVXGVWMVHH *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

ZUGVI DVOXLNRMT KZIGRXRKZMGH LM YVSZOU LU GSV ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH,
ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB (ZN), ZMW GSV MZGRLMZO WVNLMHGIZGRLM OZY, KILHHVI
TRUULIW, WRIVXGLI ULI HXSLOZIOB KILTIZNH, ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH, OLXZGVW
GSV LIRTRM LU GSV DLIPHSLK LM VOVXGILMRX GVCGH RM Z XLMEVIHZGRLM SV SZW
SZW XLMHRWVIZYOB NLIV GSZM Z BVZI ZTL DRGS XZIO UOVRHXSSZFVI XLMXVIMRMT
HLNV LU GSV RHHFVH UZXVW YB ZN.  LM GSV ZHHFNKGRLM GSZG MFNVILFH LGSVI
KVLKOV DVIV ZHPRMT GSV HZNV JFVHGRLMH, GSV WVXRHRLM DZH NZWV GL YIRMT
GLTVGSVI ZH NZMB LU GSVHV KVLKOV ZH KLHHRYOV GL ZHP GSV HZNV JFVHGRLMH
GLTVGSVI.  RM Z WVVKVI HVMHV, TRUULIW HZRW, GSV LIRTRM LU GSV DLIPHSLK
OZB RM GSV WVHRIV LU GSV XFIIVMG ORYIZIRZM LU XLMTIVHH, QZNVH S.
YROORMTGLM, GL NZPV GSV XLOOVXGRLMH LU GSV ORYIZIB, VHKVXRZOOB GSLHV
LUUVIRMT FMRJFV LI FMFHFZO GVHGRNLMB LM ZHKVXGH LU GSV ZNVIRXZM
VCKVIRVMXV, ZEZROZYOV GL Z NFXS DRWVI XRIXOV LU FHVIH GSZM GSLHV UVD
KVLKOV DSL XZM XLNV GL DZHSRMTGLM GL FHV GSVN.  GSRH NVZMG GSZG GSV
VNKSZHRH LU ZN, UILN GSV LFGHVG, SZH YVVM LM ZIXSREZO XLOOVXGRLMH LU GSV
YZHRX NZGVIRZO, ZMW LM NZPRMT GSVHV XLOOVXGRLMH GSVNHVOEVH ZEZROZYOV,
IZGSVI GSZM HVOVXGVW LI SVZEROB VWRGVW KILWFXGH.

UILN ZN'H VNKSZHRH ULOOLDVW GSV JFVHGRLMH DRGS DSRXS GSV DLIPHSLK YVTZM:
DSL DROO FHV GSVHV NZGVIRZOH, ZMW RM DSZG ULIN DROO GSVB DRHS GL FHV
GSVN.  YFG ZM VEVM OZITVI RHHFV WVHVIERMT NVMGRLM, RM TRUULIW'H ERVD, DZH
GSV KSVMLNVMZO TILDGS RM RMGVIMVG XLMMVXGRERGB.  SV VCKIVHHVW GSV SLKV
GSZG GSV KILHKVXG LU TIVZGVI RMGVIXLMMVXGVWMVHH GSZM VEVI YVULIV DLFOW
OVZW GL:  1) NFXS NLIV XLLKVIZGREV ZMW NFGFZOOB HFKKLIGREV VMWVZELIH; 2)
WVEVOLKNVMG LU HBHGVNH LU HSZIVW ZMW WRHGIRYFGVW IVHKLMHRYRORGRVH GL
