these scholarly electronic conferences also is astonishing.  From l990 to
l991, 200 new conferences were identified on Internet.  From October 1991
to June 1992, an additional 150 conferences in the social sciences and
humanities were added to this directory of listings.  Scholars have
established conferences in virtually every field, within every different
discipline.  For example, there are currently close to 600 active social
science and humanities  conferences on topics such as art and
architecture, ethnomusicology, folklore, Japanese culture, medical
education, and gifted and talented education.  The appeal to scholars of
communicating through these conferences is that, unlike any other medium,
electronic conferences today provide a forum for global communication
with peers at the front end of the research process.

Interpretation and analysis of sources constitutes the third process of
scholarly communication that MICHELSON discussed in terms of texts and
textual resources.  The methods used to analyze sources fall somewhere on
a continuum from quantitative analysis to qualitative analysis.
Typically, evidence is culled and evaluated using methods drawn from both
ends of this continuum.  At one end, quantitative analysis involves the
use of mathematical processes such as a count of frequencies and
distributions of occurrences or, on a higher level, regression analysis.
At the other end of the continuum, qualitative analysis typically
involves nonmathematical processes oriented toward language
interpretation or the building of theory.  Aspects of this work involve
the processing--either manual or computational--of large and sometimes
massive amounts of textual sources, although the use of nontextual
sources as evidence, such as photographs, sound recordings, film footage,
and artifacts, is significant as well.

Scholars have discovered that many of the methods of interpretation and
analysis that are related to both quantitative and qualitative methods
are processes that can be performed by computers.  For example, computerH
XZM XLFMG.  GSVB XZM XLFMG YIFHS HGILPVH FHVW RM Z IVNYIZMWG KZRMGRMT LI
KVIULIN IVTIVHHRLM ZMZOBHRH ULI FMWVIHGZMWRMT XZFHV ZMW VUUVXG.  YB NVZMH
LU ZWEZMXVW GVXSMLOLTRVH, XLNKFGVIH XZM IVXLTMRAV KZGGVIMH, ZMZOBAV GVCG,
ZMW NLWVO XLMXVKGH.  UFIGSVINLIV, XLNKFGVIH XZM XLNKOVGV GSVHV KILXVHHVH
UZHGVI DRGS NLIV HLFIXVH ZMW DRGS TIVZGVI KIVXRHRLM GSZM HXSLOZIH DSL
NFHG IVOB LM NZMFZO RMGVIKIVGZGRLM LU WZGZ.  YFG RU HXSLOZIH ZIV GL FHV
XLNKFGVIH ULI GSVHV KILXVHHVH, HLFIXV NZGVIRZOH NFHG YV RM Z ULIN
ZNVMZYOV GL XLNKFGVI-ZHHRHGVW ZMZOBHRH.  ULI GSRH IVZHLM NZMB HXSLOZIH,
LMXV GSVB SZEV RWVMGRURVW GSV HLFIXVH GSZG ZIV PVB GL GSVRI IVHVZIXS, ZIV
XLMEVIGRMT GSVN GL NZXSRMV-IVZWZYOV ULIN.  GSFH, Z IVKIVHVMGZGREV VCZNKOV
LU GSV MFNVILFH GVCGFZO XLMEVIHRLM KILQVXGH LITZMRAVW YB HXSLOZIH ZILFMW
GSV DLIOW RM IVXVMG BVZIH GL HFKKLIG XLNKFGZGRLMZO GVCG ZMZOBHRH RH GSV
GOT, GSV GSVHZFIFH ORMTFZV TIZVXZV.  GSRH KILQVXG RH WVELGVW GL
XLMEVIGRMT GSV VCGZMG ZMXRVMG GVCGH LU XOZHHRXZO TIVVXV.  (VWRGLI'H MLGV:
ZXXLIWRMT GL GSV GOT MVDHOVGGVI LU NZB O992, GOT DZH RM FHV RM GSRIGB-GDL
WRUUVIVMG XLFMGIRVH.  GSRH URTFIV FKWZGVH NRXSVOHLM'H KIVERLFH XLFMG YB LMV.)

GSV HXSLOZIH KVIULINRMT GSVHV XLMEVIHRLMH SZEV YVVM ZHPVW GL IVXLTMRAV
GSZG GSV VOVXGILMRX HLFIXVH GSVB ZIV XLMEVIGRMT ULI LMV FHV KLHHVHH EZOFV
ULI LGSVI IVHVZIXS KFIKLHVH ZH DVOO.  ZH Z IVHFOG, WFIRMT GSV KZHG UVD
