increase scholarly access to converted text.  So, for example, the Text
Encoding Initiative (TEI), about which more is said later in the program,
was established as an effort by scholars to determine standard elements
and methods for encoding machine-readable text for electronic exchange.
In a second effort to facilitate the sharing of converted text, scholars
have created a new institution, the Center for Electronic Texts in the
Humanities (CETH).  The center estimates that there are 8,000 series of
source texts in the humanities that have been converted to
machine-readable form worldwide.  CETH is undertaking an international
search for converted text in the humanities, compiling it into an
electronic library, and preparing bibliographic descriptions of the
sources for the Research Libraries Information Network's (RLIN)
machine-readable data file.  The library profession has begun to initiate
large conversion projects as well, such as American Memory.

While scholars have been making converted text available to one another,
typically on disk or on CD-ROM, the clear trend is toward making these
resources available through research and education networks.  Thus, the
American and French Research on the Treasury of the French Language
(ARTFL) and the Dante Project are already available on Internet.
MICHELSON summarized this section on interpretation and analysis by
noting that:  1) increasing numbers of humanities scholars in the library
community are recognizing the importance to the advancement of
scholarship of retrospective conversion of source materials in the arts
and humanities; and 2) there is a growing realization that making the
sources available on research and education networks maximizes their
usefulness for the analysis performed by humanities scholars.

The fourth process of scholarly communication is dissemination of
research findings, that is, publication.  Scholars are using existing
research and education networks to engineer a new type of publication:
scholarly-controlled journals that are electronically produced and
disseminated.  Although such journals are still emerging as a
communication format, their number has grown, from approximately twelve
to thirty-six during the past year (July 1991 to June 1992).  Most of
these electronic scholarly journals are devoted to topics in the
humanities.  As with network conferences, scholarly enthusiasm for these
electronic journals stems from the medium's unique ability to advance
scholarship in a way that no other medium can do by supporting global
feedback and interchange, practically in real time, early in the research
process.  Beyond scholarly journals, MICHELSON remarked the delivery of
commercial full-text products, such as articles in professional journals,
newsletters, magazines, wire services, and reference sources.  These are
being delivered via on-line local library catalogues, especially through
CD-ROMs.  Furthermore, according to MICHELSON, there is general optimism
that the copyright and fees issues impeding the delivery of full text on
existing research and education networks soon will be resolved.

The final process of scholarly communication is curriculum development
and instruction, and this involves the use of computer information
technologies in two areas.  The first is the development of
computer-oriented instructional tools, which includes simulations,
multimedia applications, and computer tools that are used to assist in
the analysis of sources in the classroom, etc.  The Perseus Project, a
database that provides a multimedia curriculum on classical Greek
civilization, is a good example of the way in which entire curricula are
being recast using information technologies.  It is anticipated that the
current difficulty in exchanging electronically computer-based
instructional software, which in turn makes it difficult for one scholar
to build upon the work of others, will be resolved before too long.
Stand-alone curricular applications that involve electronic text will be
sharable through networks, reinforcing their significance as intellectual
products as well as instructional tools.

The second aspect of electronic learning involves the use of research and
education networks for distance education programs.  Such programs
interactively link teachers with students in geographically scattered
locations and rely on the availability of electronic instructional
resources.  Distance education programs are gaining wide appeal among
state departments of education because of their demonstrated capacity to
bring advanced specialized course work and an array of experts to many
classrooms.  A recent report found that at least 32 states operated at
least one statewide network for education in 1991, with networks under
development in many of the remaining states.

MICHELSON summarized this section by noting two striking changes taking
place in scholarly communication among humanities scholars.  First is the
extent to which electronic text in particular, and electronic resources
in general, are being infused into each of the five processes described
above.  As mentioned earlier, there is a certain synergy at work here.
The use of electronic resources for one process tends to stimulate its
use for other processes, because the chief course of movement is toward a
comprehensive on-line working context for humanities scholars that
includes on-line availability of key bibliographies, scholarly feedback,
sources, analytical tools, and publications.  MICHELSON noted further
that the movement toward a comprehensive on-line working context for
humanities scholars is not new.  In fact, it has been underway for more
than forty years in the humanities, since Father Roberto Busa began
developing an electronic concordance of the works of Saint Thomas Aquinas
in 1949.  What we are witnessing today, MICHELSON contended, is not the
beginning of this on-line transition but, for at least some humanities
scholars, the turning point in the transition from a print to an
electronic working context.  Coinciding with the on-line transition, the
second striking change is the extent to which research and education
networks are becoming the new medium of scholarly communication.  The
existing Internet and the pending National Education and Research Network
(NREN) represent the new meeting ground where scholars are going for
bibliographic information, scholarly dialogue and feedback, the most
current publications in their field, and high-level educational
offerings.  Traditional scholarly practices are undergoing tremendous
transformations as a result of the emergence and growing prominence of
what is called network-mediated scholarship.

MICHELSON next turned to the second element of the framework she proposed
at the outset of her talk for evaluating the prospects for electronic
text, namely the key information technology trends affecting the conduct
of scholarly communication over the next decade:  1) end-user computing
and 2) connectivity.

End-user computing means that the person touching the keyboard, or
performing computations, is the same as the person who initiates or
consumes the computation.  The emergence of personal computers, along
with a host of other forces, such as ubiquitous computing, advances in
interface design, and the on-line transition, is prompting the consumers
of computation to do their own computing, and is thus rendering obsolete
the traditional distinction between end users and ultimate users.

The trend toward end-user computing is significant to consideration of
the prospects for electronic texts because it means that researchers are
becoming more adept at doing their own computations and, thus, more
competent in the use of electronic media.  By avoiding programmer
intermediaries, computation is becoming central to the researcher's
thought process.  This direct involvement in computing is changing the
researcher's perspective on the nature of research itself, that is, the
kinds of questions that can be posed, the analytical methodologies that
can be used, the types and amount of sources that are appropriate for
analyses, and the form in which findings are presented.  The trend toward
end-user computing means that, increasingly, electronic media and
computation are being infused into all processes of humanities
scholarship, inspiring remarkable transformations in scholarly
communication.

The trend toward greater connectivity suggests that researchers are using
computation increasingly in network environments.  Connectivity is
important to scholarship because it erases the distance that separates
students from teachers and scholars from their colleagues, while allowing
users to access remote databases, share information in many different
media, connect to their working context wherever they are, and
collaborate in all phases of research.

The combination of the trend toward end-user computing and the trend
toward connectivity suggests that the scholarly use of electronic
resources, already evident among some researchers, will soon become an
established feature of scholarship.  The effects of these trends, along
with ongoing changes in scholarly practices, point to a future in which
humanities researchers will use computation and electronic communication
to help them formulate ideas, access sources, perform research,
collaborate with colleagues, seek peer review, publish and disseminate
results, and engage in many other professional and educational activities.

In summary, MICHELSON emphasized four points:  1) A portion of humanities
scholars already consider electronic texts the preferred format for
analysis and dissemination.  2) Scholars are using these electronic
texts, in conjunction with other electronic resources, in all the
processes of scholarly communication.  3) The humanities scholars'
working context is in the process of changing from print technology to
electronic technology, in many ways mirroring transformations that have
occurred or are occurring within the scientific community.  4) These
changes are occurring in conjunction with the development of a new
communication medium:  research and education networks that are
characterized by their capacity to advance scholarship in a wholly unique
way.

MICHELSON also reiterated her three principal arguments:  l) Electronic
texts are best understood in terms of the relationship to other
electronic resources and the growing prominence of network-mediated
scholarship.  2) The prospects for electronic texts lie in their capacity
to be integrated into the on-line network of electronic resources that
comprise the new working context for scholars.  3) Retrospective conversion
of portions of the scholarly record should be a key strategy as information
providers respond to changes in scholarly communication practices.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
VECCIA * AM's evaluation project and public users of electronic resources
* AM and its design * Site selection and evaluating the Macintosh
implementation of AM * Characteristics of the six public libraries
selected * Characteristics of AM's users in these libraries * Principal
ways AM is being used *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Susan VECCIA, team leader, and Joanne FREEMAN, associate coordinator,
American Memory, Library of Congress, gave a joint presentation.  First,
by way of introduction, VECCIA explained her and FREEMAN's roles in
American Memory (AM).  Serving principally as an observer, VECCIA has
assisted with the evaluation project of AM, placing AM collections in a
variety of different sites around the country and helping to organize and
implement that project.  FREEMAN has been an associate coordinator of AM
and has been involved principally with the interpretative materials,
preparing some of the electronic exhibits and printed historical
information that accompanies AM and that is requested by users.  VECCIA
and FREEMAN shared anecdotal observations concerning AM with public users
of electronic resources.  Notwithstanding a fairly structured evaluation
in progress, both VECCIA and FREEMAN chose not to report on specifics in
terms of numbers, etc., because they felt it was too early in the
evaluation project to do so.

AM is an electronic archive of primary source materials from the Library
of Congress, selected collections representing a variety of formats--
photographs, graphic arts, recorded sound, motion pictures, broadsides,
and soon, pamphlets and books.  In terms of the design of this system,
the interpretative exhibits have been kept separate from the primary
resources, with good reason.  Accompanying this collection are printed
documentation and user guides, as well as guides that FREEMAN prepared for
teachers so that they may begin using the content of the system at once.

VECCIA described the evaluation project before talking about the public
users of AM, limiting her remarks to public libraries, because FREEMAN
would talk more specifically about schools from kindergarten to twelfth
grade (K-12).   Having started in spring 1991, the evaluation currently
involves testing of the Macintosh implementation of AM.  Since the
primary goal of this evaluation is to determine the most appropriate
audience or audiences for AM, very different sites were selected.  This
makes evaluation difficult because of the varying degrees of technology
literacy among the sites.  AM is situated in forty-four locations, of
which six are public libraries and sixteen are schools.  Represented
among the schools are elementary, junior high, and high schools.
District offices also are involved in the evaluation, which will
conclude in summer 1993.

VECCIA focused the remainder of her talk on the six public libraries, one
of which doubles as a state library.  They represent a range of
geographic areas and a range of demographic characteristics.  For
example, three are located in urban settings, two in rural settings, and
one in a suburban setting.  A range of technical expertise is to be found
among these facilities as well.  For example, one is an "Apple library of
the future," while two others are rural one-room libraries--in one, AM
sits at the front desk next to a tractor manual.

All public libraries have been extremely enthusiastic, supportive, and
appreciative of the work that AM has been doing.  VECCIA characterized
various users:  Most users in public libraries describe themselves as
general readers; of the students who use AM in the public libraries,
those in fourth grade and above seem most interested.  Public libraries
in rural sites tend to attract retired people, who have been highly
receptive to AM.  Users tend to fall into two additional categories:
people interested in the content and historical connotations of these
primary resources, and those fascinated by the technology.  The format
receiving the most comments has been motion pictures.  The adult users in
public libraries are more comfortable with IBM computers, whereas young
people seem comfortable with either IBM or Macintosh, although most of
them seem to come from a Macintosh background.  This same tendency is
found in the schools.

What kinds of things do users do with AM?  In a public library there are
two main goals or ways that AM is being used:  as an individual learning
tool, and as a leisure activity.  Adult learning was one area that VECCIA
would highlight as a possible application for a tool such as AM.  She
described a patron of a rural public library who comes in every day on
his lunch hour and literally reads AM, methodically going through the
collection image by image.  At the end of his hour he makes an electronic
bookmark, puts it in his pocket, and returns to work.  The next day he
comes in and resumes where he left off.  Interestingly, this man had
never been in the library before he used AM.  In another small, rural
library, the coordinator reports that AM is a popular activity for some
of the older, retired people in the community, who ordinarily would not
use "those things,"--computers.  Another example of adult learning in
public libraries is book groups, one of which, in particular, is using AM
as part of its reading on industrialization, integration, and urbanization
in the early 1900s.

One library reports that a family is using AM to help educate their
children.  In another instance, individuals from a local museum came in
to use AM to prepare an exhibit on toys of the past.  These two examples
emphasize the mission of the public library as a cultural institution,
reaching out to people who do not have the same resources available to
those who live in a metropolitan area or have access to a major library.
One rural library reports that junior high school students in large
numbers came in one afternoon to use AM for entertainment.  A number of
public libraries reported great interest among postcard collectors in the
Detroit collection, which was essentially a collection of images used on
postcards around the turn of the century.  Train buffs are similarly
interested because that was a time of great interest in railroading.
People, it was found, relate to things that they know of firsthand.  For
example, in both rural public libraries where AM was made available,
observers reported that the older people with personal remembrances of
the turn of the century were gravitating to the Detroit collection.
These examples served to underscore MICHELSON's observation re the
integration of electronic tools and ideas--that people learn best when
the material relates to something they know.

VECCIA made the final point that in many cases AM serves as a
public-relations tool for the public libraries that are testing it.  In
one case, AM is being used as a vehicle to secure additional funding for
the library.  In another case, AM has served as an inspiration to the
staff of a major local public library in the South to think about ways to
make its own collection of photographs more accessible to the public.

                                  ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
FREEMAN * AM and archival electronic resources in a school environment *
Questions concerning context * Questions concerning the electronic format
itself * Computer anxiety * Access and availability of the system *
Hardware * Strengths gained through the use of archival resources in
schools *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Reiterating an observation made by VECCIA, that AM is an archival
resource made up of primary materials with very little interpretation,
FREEMAN stated that the project has attempted to bridge the gap between
these bare primary materiaOH ZMW Z HXSLLO VMERILMNVMG, ZMW RM GSZG XZFHV
SZH XIVZGVW TFRWVW RMGILWFXGRLMH GL ZN XLOOVXGRLMH.  OLFW WVNZMW UILN GSV
VWFXZGRLMZO XLNNFMRGB,  XSRVUOB UILN GVZXSVIH DLIPRMT DRGS GSV FKKVI
TIZWVH LU VOVNVMGZIB HXSLLO GSILFTS SRTS HXSLLO, TIVVGVW GSV ZMMLFMXVNVMG
GSZG ZN DLFOW YV GVHGVW ZILFMW GSV XLFMGIB.

UIVVNZM IVKLIGVW MLG LMOB LM DSZG DZH OVZIMVW ZYLFG ZN RM Z HXSLLO
VMERILMNVMG, YFG ZOHL LM HVEVIZO FMREVIHZO JFVHGRLMH GSZG DVIV IZRHVW
XLMXVIMRMT ZIXSREZO VOVXGILMRX IVHLFIXVH RM HXSLLOH.  HSV WRHXFHHVW
HVEVIZO HGIVMTGSH LU GSRH GBKV LU NZGVIRZO RM Z HXSLLO VMERILMNVMG ZH
LKKLHVW GL Z SRTSOB HGIFXGFIVW IVHLFIXV GSZG LUUVIH Z ORNRGVW MFNYVI LU
KZGSH GL ULOOLD.

UIVVNZM URIHG IZRHVW HVEVIZO JFVHGRLMH ZYLFG FHRMT ZN RM Z HXSLLO
VMERILMNVMG.  GSVIV RH LUGVM HLNV WRUURXFOGB RM WVEVOLKRMT Z HVMHV LU
DSZG GSV HBHGVN XLMGZRMH.  NZMB HGFWVMGH HRG WLDM ZG Z XLNKFGVI IVHLFIXV
ZMW ZHHFNV GSZG, YVXZFHV ZN XLNVH UILN GSV ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH, ZOO LU
ZNVIRXZM SRHGLIB RH MLD ZG GSVRI URMTVIGRKH.  ZH Z IVHFOG LU GSZG HLIG LU
NRHGZPVM QFWTNVMG, HLNV HGFWVMGH ZIV PMLDM GL XLMXOFWV GSZG ZN XLMGZRMH
MLGSRMT LU FHV GL GSVN DSVM GSVB OLLP ULI LMV LI GDL GSRMTH ZMW WL MLG
URMW GSVN.  RG RH WRUURXFOG GL WRHXLEVI GSZG NRWWOV TILFMW DSVIV LMV SZH
Z HVMHV LU DSZG GSV HBHGVN XLMGZRMH.  HLNV HGFWVMGH TILKV GLDZIW GSV RWVZ
LU ZM ZIXSREV, Z MVD RWVZ GL GSVN, HRMXV GSVB SZEV MLG KIVERLFHOB
VCKVIRVMXVW DSZG RG NVZMH GL SZEV ZXXVHH GL Z EZHG YLWB LU HLNVDSZG
IZMWLN RMULINZGRLM.

LGSVI JFVHGRLMH IZRHVW YB UIVVNZM XLMXVIMVW GSV VOVXGILMRX ULINZG RGHVOU.
ULI RMHGZMXV, RM Z HXSLLO VMERILMNVMG RG RH LUGVM WRUURXFOG YLGS ULI
GVZXSVIH ZMW HGFWVMGH GL TZRM Z HVMHV LU DSZG RG RH GSVB ZIV ERVDRMT.
GSVB FMWVIHGZMW GSZG RG RH Z ERHFZO RNZTV, YFG GSVB WL MLG MVXVHHZIROB
PMLD GSZG RG RH Z KLHGXZIW UILN GSV GFIM LU GSV XVMGFIB, Z KZMLIZNRX
KSLGLTIZKS, LI VEVM NZXSRMV-IVZWZYOV GVCG LU ZM VRTSGVVMGS-XVMGFIB
YILZWHRWV, Z GDVMGRVGS-XVMGFIB KIRMGVW YLLP, LI Z MRMVGVVMGS-XVMGFIB
WRZIB.  GSZG WRHGRMXGRLM RH LUGVM WRUURXFOG ULI KVLKOV RM Z HXSLLO
VMERILMNVMG GL TIZHK.  YVXZFHV LU GSZG, RG LXXZHRLMZOOB YVXLNVH WRUURXFOG
GL WIZD XLMXOFHRLMH UILN DSZG LMV RH ERVDRMT.

UIVVNZM ZOHL MLGVW GSV LYERLFH UVZI LU GSV XLNKFGVI, DSRXS XLMHGRGFGVH Z
WRUURXFOGB RM FHRMT ZM VOVXGILMRX IVHLFIXV.  GSLFTS HGFWVMGH RM TVMVIZO
WRW MLG HFUUVI UILN GSRH ZMCRVGB, HVEVIZO LOWVI HGFWVMGH UVZIVW GSZG GSVB
DVIV XLNKFGVI-ROORGVIZGV, ZM ZHHFNKGRLM GSZG YVXZNV HVOU-UFOUROORMT DSVM
GSVB HVZIXSVW ULI HLNVGSRMT YFG UZROVW GL URMW RG.  UIVVNZM HZRW HSV
YVORVEVW GSZG HLNV GVZXSVIH ZOHL UVZI XLNKFGVI IVHLFIXVH, YVXZFHV GSVB
YVORVEV GSVB OZXP XLNKOVGV XLMGILO.  UIVVNZM IVOZGVW GSV VCZNKOV LU
GVZXSVIH HSLLRMT ZDZB HGFWVMGH YVXZFHV RG DZH MLG GSVRI GRNV GL FHV GSV
HBHGVN.  GSRH DZH Z XZHV RM DSRXS GSV HRGFZGRLM SZW GL YV VCGIVNVOB
HGIFXGFIVW HL GSZG GSV GVZXSVIH DLFOW MLG UVVO GSZG GSVB SZW OLHG GSVRI
TIZHK LM DSZG GSV HBHGVN XLMGZRMVW.

Z URMZO JFVHGRLM IZRHVW YB UIVVNZM XLMXVIMVW ZXXVHH ZMW ZEZROZYRORGB LU
GSV HBHGVN.  HSV MLGVW GSV LXXZHRLMZO VCRHGVMXV LU Z TZK RM XLNNFMRXZGRLM
YVGDVVM HXSLLO ORYIZIRZMH ZMW GVZXSVIH.  LUGVM ZN HRGH RM Z HXSLLO
ORYIZIB ZMW GSV ORYIZIRZM RH GSV KVIHLM IVHKLMHRYOV ULI NLMRGLIRMT GSV
HBHGVN.  GVZXSVIH WL MLG ZODZBH GZPV RMGL GSVRI DLIOW MVD ORYIZIB
IVHLFIXVH ZYLFG DSRXS GSV ORYIZIRZM RH VCXRGVW.  RMWVVW, ZG GSV HRGVH
DSVIV ZN SZW YVVM FHVW NLHG VUUVXGREVOB DRGSRM Z ORYIZIB, GSV ORYIZIRZM
DZH IVJFRIVW GL TL GL HKVXRURX GVZXSVIH ZMW RMHGIFXG GSVN RM RGH FHV.  ZH
Z IVHFOG, HVEVIZO ZN HRGVH DROO SZEV RM-HVIERXV HVHHRLMH LEVI Z HFNNVI,
RM GSV SLKV GSZG KVISZKH, DRGS Z NLIV RMWRERWFZORAVW ORMP, GVZXSVIH DROO
YV NLIV ORPVOB GL FHV GSV IVHLFIXV.

Z IVOZGVW RHHFV RM GSV HXSLLO XLMGVCG XLMXVIMVW GSV MFNYVI LU
DLIPHGZGRLMH ZEZROZYOV ZG ZMB LMV OLXZGRLM.  XVMGIZORAZGRLM LU VJFRKNVMG
ZG GSV WRHGIRXG OVEVO, DRGS GVZXSVIH RMERGVW GL WLDMOLZW GSRMTH ZMW DZOP
ZDZB DRGS GSVN, KILEVW FMHFXXVHHUFO YVXZFHV GSV SLFIH GSVHV LUURXVH DVIV
LKVM DVIV ZOHL HXSLLO SLFIH.

ZMLGSVI RHHFV DZH SZIWDZIV.  ZH EVXXRZ LYHVIEVW, Z IZMTV LU HRGVH VCRHGH,
HLNV GVXSMLOLTRXZOOB ZWEZMXVW ZMW LGSVIH VHHVMGRZOOB ZXJFRIRMT GSVRI
URIHG XLNKFGVI ULI GSV KIRNZIB KFIKLHV LU FHRMT RG RM XLMQFMXGRLM DRGS
ZN'H GVHGRMT.  FHVIH ZG GVXSMLOLTRXZOOB HLKSRHGRXZGVW HRGVH DZMG VEVM
NLIV HLKSRHGRXZGVW SZIWDZIV, HL GSZG GSVB XZM KVIULIN VEVM NLIV
HLKSRHGRXZGVW GZHPH DRGS GSV NZGVIRZOH RM ZN.  YFG LMXV GSVB ZXJFRIV Z
MVDVI KRVXV LU SZIWDZIV, GSVB NFHG OVZIM SLD GL FHV GSZG ZOHL; ZG ZM
FMHLKSRHGRXZGVW HRGV RG GZPVH ZM VCGIVNVOB OLMT GRNV HRNKOB GL YVXLNV
ZXXFHGLNVW GL GSV XLNKFGVI, MLG GL NVMGRLM GSV KILTIZN LUUVIVW DRGS GSV
XLNKFGVI.  ZOO LU GSVHV HNZOO RHHFVH IZRHV LMV OZITV JFVHGRLM, MZNVOB,
ZIV HBHGVNH ORPV ZN GIFOB IVDZIWRMT RM Z HXSLLO VMERILMNVMG, LI WL GSVB
HRNKOB ZXG ZH RMMLEZGREV GLBH GSZG WL ORGGOV NLIV GSZM HKZIP RMGVIVHG?

UIVVNZM XLMGVMWVW GSZG GSV VEZOFZGRLM KILQVXG SZH IVEVZOVW HVEVIZO HGIVMTGSH
GSZG DVIV TZRMVW GSILFTS GSV FHV LU ZIXSREZO IVHLFIXVH RM HXSLLOH, RMXOFWRMT:

     * KHBXSRX IVDZIWH UILN FHRMT ZN ZH Z EZHG, IRXS WZGZYZHV, DRGS
     GVZXSVIH ZHHRTMRMT EZIRLFH KILQVXGH GL HGFWVMGH--LIZO KIVHVMGZGRLMH,
     DIRGGVM IVKLIGH, Z WLXFNVMGZIB, Z GFIM-LU-GSV-XVMGFIB MVDHKZKVI--
     KILQVXGH GSZG HGZIG DRGS GSV NZGVIRZOH RM ZN YFG ZIV XLNKOVGVW FHRMT
     LGSVI IVHLFIXVH; ZN GSFH RH FHVW ZH Z IVHVZIXS GLLO RM XLMQFMXGRLM
     DRGS LGSVI VOVXGILMRX IVHLFIXVH, ZH DVOO ZH DRGS YLLPH ZMW RGVNH RM
     GSV ORYIZIB DSVIV GSV HBHGVN RH HVG FK.

     * HGFWVMGH ZIV ZXJFRIRMT XLNKFGVI ORGVIZXB RM Z SFNZMRGRVH XLMGVCG.

     * GSRH HLIG LU HBHGVN RH LEVIXLNRMT GSV RHLOZGRLM YVGDVVM WRHXRKORMVH
     GSZG LUGVM VCRHGH RM HXSLLOH.  ULI VCZNKOV, NZMB VMTORHS GVZXSVIH ZIV
     IVJFRIRMT GSVRI HGFWVMGH GL DIRGV KZKVIH LM SRHGLIRXZO GLKRXH
     IVKIVHVMGVW RM ZN.  MFNVILFH GVZXSVIH SZEV IVKLIGVW GSZG GSVRI
     HGFWVMGH ZIV OVZIMRMT XIRGRXZO GSRMPRMT HPROOH FHRMT GSV HBHGVN.

     * LM Z YILZWVI OVEVO, ZN RH RMGILWFXRMT KIRNZIB NZGVIRZOH, MLG LMOB
     GL HGFWVMGH YFG ZOHL GL GVZXSVIH, RM ZM VMERILMNVMG DSVIV LUGVM
     HRNKOB MLMV VCRHG--ZM VCXRGRMT GSRMT ULI GSV HGFWVMGH YVXZFHV RG
     SVOKH GSVN OVZIM GL XLMWFXG IVHVZIXS, GL RMGVIKIVG, ZMW GL WIZD
     GSVRI LDM XLMXOFHRLMH.  RM OVZIMRMT GL XLMWFXG IVHVZIXS ZMW DSZG RG
     NVZMH, HGFWVMGH ZIV NLGREZGVW GL HVVP PMLDOVWTV.  GSZG IVOZGVH GL
     ZMLGSVI KLHRGREV LFGXLNV--Z SRTS OVEVO LU KVIHLMZO RMELOEVNVMG LU
     HGFWVMGH DRGS GSV NZGVIRZOH RM GSRH HBHGVN ZMW TIVZGVI NLGREZGRLM GL
     XLMWFXG GSVRI LDM IVHVZIXS ZMW WIZD GSVRI LDM XLMXOFHRLMH.

     * KVISZKH GSV NLHG RILMRX HGIVMTGS LU GSVHV PRMWH LU ZIXSREZO
     VOVXGILMRX IVHLFIXVH RH GSZG NZMB LU GSV GVZXSVIH ZN RMGVIERVDVW
     DVIV WVHKVIZGV, RG RH ML VCZTTVIZGRLM GL HZB, MLG LMOB ULI KIRNZIB
     NZGVIRZOH YFG ULI FMHGIFXGFIVW KIRNZIB NZGVIRZOH.  GSVHV DLFOW, GSVB
     GSLFTSG, ULHGVI KVIHLMZOOB NLGREZGVW IVHVZIXS, VCKOLIZGRLM, ZMW
     VCXRGVNVMG RM GSVRI HGFWVMGH.  RMWVVW, GSVHV NZGVIRZOH SZEV WLMV
     QFHG GSZG.  RILMRXZOOB, SLDVEVI, GSRH OZXP LU HGIFXGFIV KILWFXVH
     HLNV LU GSV XLMUFHRLM GL DSRXS GSV MVDMVHH LU GSVHV PRMWH LU
     IVHLFIXVH NZB ZOHL XLMGIRYFGV.  GSV PVB GL VUUVXGREV FHV LU ZIXSREZO
     KILWFXGH RM Z HXSLLO VMERILMNVMG RH Z XOVZI, VUUVXGREV RMGILWFXGRLM
     GL GSV HBHGVN ZMW GL DSZG RG XLMGZRMH.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
WRHXFHHRLM * MLGSRMT PMLDM, JFZMGRGZGREVOB, ZYLFG GSV MFNYVI LU
SFNZMRGRVH HXSLOZIH DSL NFHG HVV GSV LIRTRMZO EVIHFH GSLHV DSL DLFOW
HVGGOV ULI ZM VWRGVW GIZMHXIRKG, LI ZYLFG GSV DZBH RM DSRXS SFNZMRGRVH
HXSLOZIH ZIV FHRMT RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTB * URIN XLMXOFHRLMH XLMXVIMRMT
GSV NZMMVI ZMW VCGVMG LU GSV FHV LU HFKKLIGRMT NZGVIRZOH RM KIRMG
KILERWVW YB ZN GL ZDZRG XLNKOVGRLM LU VEZOFZGREV HGFWB * Z ORHGVMVI'H
IVUOVXGRLMH LM ZWWRGRLMZO ZKKORXZGRLMH LU VOVXGILMRX GVCGH * ILOV LU
VOVXGILMRX IVHLFIXVH RM GVZXSRMT VOVNVMGZIB IVHVZIXS HPROOH GL HGFWVMGH *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

WFIRMT GSV WRHXFHHRLM GSZG ULOOLDVW GSV KIVHVMGZGRLMH YB NRXSVOHLM,
EVXXRZ, ZMW UIVVNZM, ZWWRGRLMZO KLRMGH VNVITVW.

OVHP ZHPVW RU NRXSVOHLM XLFOW TREV ZMB JFZMGRGZGREV VHGRNZGV LU GSV
MFNYVI LU SFNZMRGRVH HXSLOZIH DSL NFHG HVV LI DZMG GL HVV GSV LIRTRMZO,
LI GSV YVHG KLHHRYOV EVIHRLM LU GSV NZGVIRZO, EVIHFH GSLHV DSL GBKRXZOOB
DLFOW HVGGOV ULI ZM VWRGVW GIZMHXIRKG.  DSROV FMZYOV GL KILERWV Z URTFIV,
HSV LUUVIVW SVI RNKIVHHRLMH ZH ZM ZIXSRERHG DSL SZH WLMV HLNV IVUVIVMXV
DLIP ZMW SZH WRHXFHHVW GSRH RHHFV DRGS LGSVI ZIXSRERHGH DSL KVIULIN
IVUVIVMXV, GSZG GSLHV DSL FHV ZIXSREVH ZMW GSLHV DSL FHV KIRNZIB HLFIXVH
ULI DSZG DLFOW YV XLMHRWVIVW EVIB SRTS-OVEVO HXSLOZIOB IVHVZIXS, ZH
LKKLHVW GL, HZB, FMWVITIZWFZGV KZKVIH, DVIV UVD RM MFNYVI, VHKVXRZOOB
TREVM GSV KFYORX RMGVIVHG RM FHRMT KIRNZIB HLFIXVH GL XLMWFXG
TVMVZOLTRXZO LI ZELXZGRLMZO IVHVZIXS ZMW GSV PRMW LU KILUVHHRLMZO
IVHVZIXS WLMV YB KVLKOV RM KIREZGV RMWFHGIB LI GSV UVWVIZO TLEVIMNVMG.
NLIV RNKLIGZMG RM NRXSVOHLM'H ERVD DZH GSZG, JFZMGRGZGREVOB, MLGSRMT RH
PMLDM ZYLFG GSV DZBH RM DSRXS, ULI VCZNKOV, SFNZMRGRVH HXSLOZIH ZIV FHRMT
RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTB.  ML HGFWRVH VCRHG GL LUUVI TFRWZMXV RM XIVZGRMT
HGIZGVTRVH.  GSV NLHG IVXVMG HGFWB DZH XLMWFXGVW RM 1985 YB GSV ZNVIRXZM
XLFMXRO LU OVZIMVW HLXRVGRVH (ZXOH), ZMW DSZG RG HSLDVW DZH GSZG 50
KVIXVMG LU SFNZMRGRVH HXSLOZIH ZG GSZG GRNV DVIV FHRMT XLNKFGVIH.  GSZG
XLMHGRGFGVH GSV VCGVMG LU LFI PMLDOVWTV.

XLMXVIMRMT ZN'H HGIZGVTB ULI LIRVMGRMT KVLKOV GLDZIW GSV HXLKV LU
VOVXGILMRX IVHLFIXVH, UIVVNZM XLFOW LUUVI ML SZIW XLMXOFHRLMH ZG GSRH
KLRMG, YVXZFHV HSV ZMW SVI XLOOVZTFVH DVIV HGROO DZRGRMT GL HVV,
KZIGRXFOZIOB RM GSV HXSLLOH, DSZG SZH YVVM NZWV LU GSVRI VUULIGH.  DRGSRM
GSV HBHGVN, SLDVEVI, ZN SZH KILERWVW DSZG ZIV XZOOVW VOVXGILMRX VCSRYRGH-
-HFXS ZH RMGILWFXGRLMH GL GRNV KVIRLWH ZMW NZGVIRZOH--ZMW GSVHV ZIV
RMGVMWVW GL LUUVI Z HGFWVMG FHVI Z HVMHV LU DSZG Z YILZWHRWV RH  ZMW DSZG
RG NRTSG GVOO SVI LI SRN.  YFG UIVVNZM XLMXVWVW GSZG GSV KILQVXG HGZUU
DLFOW SZEV GL GZOP DRGS HGFWVMGH MVCG BVZI, ZUGVI GVZXSVIH SZEV SZW Z
HFNNVI GL FHV GSV NZGVIRZOH, ZMW ZGGVNKG GL WRHXLEVI DSZG GSV HGFWVMGH
DVIV OVZIMRMT UILN GSV NZGVIRZOH.  RM ZWWRGRLM, UIVVNZM WVHXIRYVW
HFKKLIGRMT NZGVIRZOH RM KIRMG KILERWVW YB ZN ZG GSV IVJFVHG LU OLXZO
GVZXSVIH WFIRMT Z NVVGRMT SVOW ZG OX.  GSVHV RMXOFWVW GRNV ORMVH,
YRYORLTIZKSRVH, ZMW LGSVI NZGVIRZOH GSZG XLFOW YV IVKILWFXVW LM Z
KSLGLXLKRVI RM Z XOZHHILLN.  GVZXSVIH XLFOW DZOP ZDZB DRGS ZMW FHV GSVHV,
ZMW RM GSRH DZB TZRM Z YVGGVI FMWVIHGZMWRMT LU GSV XLMGVMGH.  YFG ZTZRM,
IVZXSRMT URIN XLMXOFHRLMH XLMXVIMRMT GSV NZMMVI ZMW VCGVMG LU GSVRI FHV
DLFOW SZEV GL DZRG FMGRO MVCG BVZI.

ZH GL GSV XSZMTVH HSV HZD LXXFIIRMT ZG GSV MZGRLMZO ZIXSREVH ZMW IVXLIWH
ZWNRMRHGIZGRLM (MZIZ) ZH Z IVHFOG LU GSV RMXIVZHRMT VNKSZHRH LM
GVXSMLOLTB RM HXSLOZIOB IVHVZIXS, NRXSVOHLM HGZGVW GSZG MZIZ ZG GSRH
KLRMG DZH ZYHLIYRMT GSV IVKLIG YB SVI ZMW QVUU ILGSVMYVIT ZWWIVHHRMT
HGIZGVTRVH ULI GSV ZIXSREZO KILUVHHRLM RM TVMVIZO, ZOGSLFTS MLG ULI GSV
MZGRLMZO ZIXSREVH HKVXRURXZOOB.  MZIZ RH QFHG YVTRMMRMT GL VHGZYORHS RGH
ILOV ZMW DSZG RG XZM WL.  RM GVINH LU XSZMTVH ZMW RMRGRZGREVH GSZG MZIZ
XZM GZPV, ML XOVZI IVHKLMHV XLFOW YV TREVM ZG GSRH GRNV.

TIVVMURVOW IVNZIPVW GDL GIVMWH NVMGRLMVW RM GSV HVHHRLM.  IVUOVXGRMT LM
WZOB'H LKVMRMT XLNNVMGH LM SLD SV XLFOW SZEV FHVW Z OZGRM XLOOVXGRLM LU
GVCG RM ZM VOVXGILMRX ULIN, SV HZRW GSZG ZG URIHG SV GSLFTSG NLHG HXSLOZIH
DLFOW YV FMDROORMT GL WL GSZG.  YFG ZH SV GSLFTSG LU GSZG RM GVINH LU GSV
LIRTRMZO NVZMRMT LU IVHVZIXS--GSZG RH, SZERMT ZOIVZWB NZHGVIVW GSVHV GVCGH,
IVHVZIXSRMT GSVN ULI XIRGRXZO ZMW XLNKZIZGREV KFIKLHVH--ULI GSV URIHG GRNV,
GSV VOVXGILMRX ULINZG NZWV Z OLG LU HVMHV.  TIVVMURVOW XLFOW VMERHRLM
TILDRMT MFNYVIH LU HXSLOZIH OVZIMRMT GSV MVD GVXSMLOLTRVH ULI GSZG EVIB
ZHKVXG LU GSVRI HXSLOZIHSRK ZMW ULI XLMEVMRVMXV'H HZPV.

ORHGVMRMT GL EVXXRZ ZMW UIVVNZM, TIVVMURVOW GSLFTSG LU ZM ZWWRGRLMZO
ZKKORXZGRLM LU VOVXGILMRX GVCGH.  SV IVZORAVW GSZG ZN XLFOW YV FHVW ZH Z
TFRWV GL OVZW HLNVLMV GL LIRTRMZO HLFIXVH.  HGFWVMGH XZMMLG YV VCKVXGVW
GL SZEV NZHGVIVW GSVHV HLFIXVH, GSRMTH GSVB SZEV MVEVI PMLDM ZYLFG
YVULIV.  GSFH, ZN RH OVZWRMT GSVN, RM GSVLIB, GL Z EZHG YLWB LU
RMULINZGRLM ZMW TRERMT GSVN Z HFKVIURXRZO LEVIERVD LU RG, VMZYORMT GSVN
GL HVOVXG KZIGH LU RG.  TIVVMURVOW ZHPVW RU ZMB VERWVMXV VCRHGH GSZG GSRH
IVHLFIXV DROO RMWVVW GVZXS GSV MVD FHVI, GSV P-12 HGFWVMGH, SLD GL WL
IVHVZIXS.  HXSLOZIH ZOIVZWB PMLD SLD GL WL IVHVZIXS ZMW ZIV ZKKOBRMT
GSVHV MVD GLLOH.  YFG SV DLMWVIVW DSB HGFWVMGH DLFOW TL YVBLMW KRXPRMT
LFG GSRMTH GSZG DVIV NLHG VCXRGRMT GL GSVN.

UIVVNZM XLMXVWVW GSV XLIIVXGMVHH LU TIVVMURVOW'H LYHVIEZGRLM ZH ZKKORVW
GL Z HXSLLO VMERILMNVMG.  GSV IRHP RH GSZG Z HGFWVMG DLFOW HRG WLDM ZG Z
HBHGVN, KOZB DRGS RG, URMW HLNV GSRMTH LU RMGVIVHG, ZMW GSVM DZOP ZDZB.
YFG RM GSV IVOZGREVOB XLMGILOOVW HRGFZGRLM LU Z HXSLLO ORYIZIB, NFXS DROO
WVKVMW LM GSV RMHGIFXGRLMH Z GVZXSVI LI Z ORYIZIRZM TREVH Z HGFWVMG.  HSV
ERVDVW GSV HRGFZGRLM MLG ZH LMV LU URMV-GFMRMT IVHVZIXS HPROOH YFG LU
RMELOERMT HGFWVMGH ZG Z KVIHLMZO OVEVO RM FMWVIHGZMWRMT ZMW IVHVZIXSRMT
GSRMTH.  TREVM GSV TFRWZMXV LMV XZM IVXVREV ZG HXSLLO, RG GSVM YVXLNVH
KLHHRYOV GL GVZXS VOVNVMGZIB IVHVZIXS HPROOH GL HGFWVMGH, DSRXS RM UZXG
LMV KZIGRXFOZI ORYIZIRZM HZRW HSV DZH GVZXSRMT SVI URUGS TIZWVIH.
UIVVNZM XLMXOFWVW GSZG RMGILWFXRMT GSV RWVZ LU ULOOLDRMT LMV'H LDM KZGS
LU RMJFRIB, DSRXS RH VHHVMGRZOOB DSZG IVHVZIXS VMGZROH, RMELOEVH NLIV
GSZM GVZXSRMT HKVXRURX HPROOH.  GL GSVHV XLNNVMGH EVXXRZ ZWWVW GSV
LYHVIEZGRLM GSZG GSV RMWRERWFZO GVZXSVI ZMW GSV FHV LU Z XIVZGREV
IVHLFIXV, IZGSVI GSZM ZN RGHVOU, HVVNVW GL NZPV GSV PVB WRUUVIVMXV.
HLNV HXSLLOH ZMW HLNV GVZXSVIH ZIV NZPRMT VCXVOOVMG FHV LU GSV MZGFIV
LU XIRGRXZO GSRMPRMT ZMW GVZXSRMT HPROOH, HSV HZRW.

XLMXFIIRMT DRGS GSVHV IVNZIPH, WZOB XOLHVW GSV HVHHRLM DRGS GSV GSLFTSG GSZG
GSV NLIV GSZG KILWFXVIH KILWFXVW ULI GVZXSVIH ZMW ULI HXSLOZIH GL FHV DRGS
GSVRI HGFWVMGH, GSV NLIV HFXXVHHUFO GSVRI VOVXGILMRX KILWFXGH DLFOW KILEV.

                                 ******

HVHHRLM RR.  HSLD ZMW GVOO

QZXJFVORMV SVHH, WRIVXGLI, MZGRLMZO WVNLMHGIZGRLM OZYLIZGLIB, HVIEVW ZH
NLWVIZGLI LU GSV "HSLD-ZMW-GVOO" HVHHRLM.  HSV MLGVW GSZG Z
JFVHGRLM-ZMW-ZMHDVI KVIRLW DLFOW ULOOLD VZXS KIVHVMGZGRLM.

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
NBOLMZH * LEVIERVD ZMW XLMGVMG LU KVIHVFH * KVIHVFH' KIRNZIB NZGVIRZOH
VCRHG RM Z HBHGVN-RMWVKVMWVMG, ZIXSREZO ULIN * Z XLMXVHHRLM * GVCGFZO
ZHKVXGH LU KVIHVFH * GLLOH GL FHV DRGS GSV TIVVP GVCG * KIVKZIVW RMWRXVH
ZMW UFOO-GVCG HVZIXSVH RM KVIHVFH * VMTORHS-TIVVP DLIW HVZIXS OVZWH GL
XOLHV HGFWB LU DLIWH ZMW XLMXVKGH * MZERTZGRMT KVIHVFH YB GIZXRMT WLDM
RMWRXVH * FHRMT GSV RXLMLTIZKSB GL KVIULIN IVHVZIXS *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

VOOR NBOLMZH, NZMZTRMT VWRGLI, KVIHVFH KILQVXG, SZIEZIW FMREVIHRGB, URIHG
TZEV ZM LEVIERVD LU KVIHVFH, Z OZITV, XLOOZYLIZGREV VUULIG YZHVW ZG
SZIEZIW FMREVIHRGB YFG DRGS XLMGIRYFGLIH ZMW XLOOZYLIZGLIH OLXZGVW ZG
MFNVILFH FMREVIHRGRVH ZMW XLOOVTVH RM GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH (V.T., YLDWLRM,
NZIBOZMW, KLNLMZ, XSRXZTL, ERITRMRZ).  UFMWVW KIRNZIROB YB GSV
ZMMVMYVIT/XKY KILQVXG, DRGS ZWWRGRLMZO UFMWRMT UILN ZKKOV, SZIEZIW, ZMW
GSV KZXPZIW SFNZMRGRVH RMHGRGFGV, ZNLMT LGSVIH, KVIHVFH RH Z NFOGRNVWRZ,
SBKVIGVCGFZO WZGZYZHV ULI GVZXSRMT ZMW IVHVZIXS LM XOZHHRXZO TIVVP
XRERORAZGRLM, DSRXS DZH IVOVZHVW RM UVYIFZIB 1992 RM EVIHRLM 1.0 ZMW
WRHGIRYFGVW YB BZOV FMREVIHRGB KIVHH.

XLMHRHGRMT VMGRIVOB LU KIRNZIB NZGVIRZOH, KVIHVFH RMXOFWVH ZMXRVMG TIVVP
GVCGH ZMW GIZMHOZGRLMH LU GSLHV GVCGH; XZGZOLT VMGIRVH--GSZG RH, NFHVFN
XZGZOLT VMGIRVH, MLG ORYIZIB XZGZOLT VMGIRVH--LM EZHVH, HRGVH, XLRMH,
HXFOKGFIV, ZMW ZIXSZVLOLTRXZO LYQVXGH; NZKH; ZMW Z WRXGRLMZIB, ZNLMT
LGSVI HLFIXVH.  GSV MFNYVI LU LYQVXGH ZMW GSV LYQVXGH ULI DSRXS XZGZOLT
VMGIRVH VCRHG ZIV ZXXLNKZMRVW YB GSLFHZMWH LU XLOLI RNZTVH, DSRXS
XLMHGRGFGV Z NZQLI UVZGFIV LU GSV WZGZYZHV.  KVIHVFH XLMGZRMH
ZKKILCRNZGVOB 30 NVTZYBGVH LU GVCG, ZM ZNLFMG GSZG DROO WLFYOV RM
HFYHVJFVMG EVIHRLMH.  RM ZWWRGRLM GL GSVHV KIRNZIB NZGVIRZOH, GSV KVIHVFH
KILQVXG SZH YVVM YFROWRMT GLLOH ULI FHRMT GSVN, NZPRMT ZXXVHH ZMW
MZERTZGRLM VZHRVI, GSV TLZO YVRMT GL YFROW KZIG LU GSV VOVXGILMRX
VMERILMNVMG WRHXFHHVW VZIORVI RM GSV NLIMRMT RM DSRXS HGFWVMGH LI
HXSLOZIH XZM DLIP DRGS GSVRI HLFIXVH.

GSV WVNLMHGIZGRLM LU KVIHVFH DROO HSLD LMOB Z UIZXGRLM LU GSV IVZO DLIP
GSZG SZH TLMV RMGL RG, YVXZFHV GSV KILQVXG SZW GL UZXV GSV WROVNNZ LU
DSZG GL VMGVI DSVM KFGGRMT HLNVGSRMT RMGL NZXSRMV-IVZWZYOV ULIN:  HSLFOW
LMV ZRN ULI EVIB SRTS JFZORGB LI NZPV XLMXVHHRLMH RM LIWVI GL TVG GSV
NZGVIRZO RM?  HRMXV KVIHVFH WVXRWVW GL LKG ULI EVIB SRTS JFZORGB, ZOO LU
RGH KIRNZIB NZGVIRZOH VCRHG RM Z HBHGVN-RMWVKVMWVMG--RMHLUZI ZH RG RH
KLHHRYOV GL YV HBHGVN-RMWVKVMWVMG--ZIXSREZO ULIN.  WVXRWRMT DSZG GSZG
ZIXSREZO ULIN DLFOW YV ZMW ZGGZRMRMT RG IVJFRIVW NFXS DLIP ZMW GSLFTSG.
ULI VCZNKOV, ZOO GSV GVCGH ZIV NZIPVW FK RM HTNO, DSRXS DROO YV NZWV
XLNKZGRYOV DRGS GSV TFRWVORMVH LU GSV GVCG VMXLWRMT RMRGRZGREV (GVR) DSVM
GSVB ZIV RHHFVW.

WIZDRMTH ZIV KLHGHXIRKG UROVH, MLG NVVGRMT RMGVIMZGRLMZO HGZMWZIWH, YFG
ZG OVZHG WVHRTMVW GL TL ZXILHH KOZGULINH.  RNZTVH, LI IZGSVI GSV IVZO
ZIXSREZO ULINH, XLMHRHG LU GSV YVHG ZEZROZYOV HORWVH, DSRXS ZIV YVRMT
WRTRGRAVW.  NFXS LU GSV XZGZOLT NZGVIRZO VCRHGH RM WZGZYZHV ULIN--Z ULIN
GSZG GSV ZEVIZTV FHVI XLFOW FHV, NZMRKFOZGV, ZMW WRHKOZB LM Z KVIHLMZO
XLNKFGVI, YFG LMOB ZG TIVZG XLHG.  GSFH, GSRH RH DSVIV GSV XLMXVHHRLM
XLNVH RM:  ZOO LU GSRH IRXS, DVOO-NZIPVW-FK RMULINZGRLM RH HGIRKKVW LU
NFXS LU RGH XLMGVMG; GSV RNZTVH ZIV XLMEVIGVW RMGL YRG-NZKH ZMW GSV GVCG
RMGL HNZOO ULINZGGVW XSFMPH.  ZOO GSRH RMULINZGRLM XZM GSVM YV RNKLIGVW
RMGL SBKVIXZIW ZMW IFM LM Z NRW-IZMTV NZXRMGLHS, DSRXS RH DSZG KVIHVFH
FHVIH SZEV.  GSRH UZXG SZH NZWV RG KLHHRYOV ULI KVIHVFH GL ZGGZRM DRWV
FHV UZRIOB IZKRWOB.  DRGSLFG GSLHV ZIXSREZO ULINH GSV SBKVIXZIW EVIHRLM
YVRMT WVNLMHGIZGVW XLFOW MLG YV NZWV VZHROB, ZMW GSV KILQVXG XLFOW MLG
SZEV GSV KLGVMGRZO GL NLEV GL LGSVI ULINH ZMW NZXSRMVH ZMW HLUGDZIV ZH
GSVB ZKKVZI, MLMV LU DSRXS RMULINZGRLM RH RM KVIHVFH LM GSV XW.

LU GSV MFNVILFH NFOGRNVWRZ ZHKVXGH LU KVIHVFH, NBOLMZH ULXFHVW LM GSV
GVCGFZO.  KZIG LU DSZG NZPVH KVIHVFH HFXS Z KOVZHFIV GL FHV, NBOLMZH
HZRW, RH GSRH VUULIG ZG HVZNOVHH RMGVTIZGRLM ZMW GSV ZYRORGB GL NLEV
ZILFMW YLGS ERHFZO ZMW GVCGFZO NZGVIRZO.  KVIHVFH ZOHL NZWV GSV WVXRHRLM
MLG GL ZGGVNKG GL RMGVIKIVG RGH NZGVIRZO ZMB NLIV GSZM LMV RMGVIKIVGH YB
HVOVXGRMT.  YFG, NBOLMZH VNKSZHRAVW, KVIHVFH RH MLG XLFIHVDZIV:  ML
HBOOZYFH VCRHGH.  GSVIV RH ML VUULIG GL WVURMV SLD LMV GVZXSVH Z GLKRX
FHRMT KVIHVFH, ZOGSLFTS GSV KILQVXG NZB VEVMGFZOOB XLOOVXG KZKVIH YB
KVLKOV DSL SZEV FHVW RG GL GVZXS.  IZGSVI, KVIHVFH ZRNH GL KILERWV
KIRNZIB NZGVIRZO RM Z PRMW LU VOVXGILMRX ORYIZIB, ZM VOVXGILMRX HZMWYLC,
