disciplines dependent on text and image generated a variety of concerns,
for example:  1) Copy what is, not what the technology is capable of.
This is very important for the history of ideas.  Scholars wish to know
what the author saw and worked from.  And make available at the
workstation the opportunity to erase all the defects and enhance the
presentation.  2) The fidelity of reproduction--what is good enough, what
can we afford, and the difference it makes--issues of subjective versus
objective resolution.  3) The differences between primary and secondary
users.  Restricting the definition of primary user to the one in whose
discipline the material has been published runs one headlong into the
reality that these printed books have had a host of other users from a
host of other disciplines, who not only were looking for very different
things, but who also shared values very different from those of the
primary user.  4) The relationship of the standard of reproduction to new
capabilities of scholarship--the browsing standard versus an archival
standard.  How good must the archival standard be?  Can a distinction be
drawn between potential users in setting standards for reproduction?
Archival storage, use copies, browsing copies--ought an attempt to set
standards even be made?  5) Finally, costs.  How much are we prepared to
pay to capture absolute fidelity?  What are the trade-offs between vastly
enhanced access, degrees of fidelity, and costs?

These standards, BATTIN concluded, serve to complicate further the
reproduction process, and add to the long list of technical standards
that are necessary to ensure widespread access.  Ways to articulate and
analyze the costs that are attached to the different levels of standards
must be found.

Given the chaos concerning standards, which promises to linger for the
foreseeable future, BATTIN urged adoption of the following general
principles:

     * Strive to understand the changing information requirements of
     scholarly disciplines as more and more technology is integrated into
     the process of research and scholarly communication in order to meet
     future scholarly needs, not to build for the past.  Capture
     deteriorating information at the highest affordable resolution, even
     though the dissemination and display technologies will lag.

     * Develop cooperative mechanisms to foster agreement on protocols
     for document structure and other interchange mechanisms necessary
     for widespread dissemination and use before official standards are
     set.

     * Accept that, in a transition period, de facto standards will have
     to be developed.

     * Capture information in a way that keeps all options open and
     provides for total convertibility:  OCR, scanning of microfilm,
     producing microfilm from scanned documents, etc.

     * Work closely with the generators of information and the builders
     of networks and databases to ensure that continuing accessibility is
     a primary concern from the beginning.

     * Piggyback on standards under development for the broad market, and
     avoid library-specific standards; work with the vendors, in order to
     take advantage of that which is being standardized for the rest of
     the world.

     * Concentrate efforts on managing permanence in the digital world,
     rather than perfecting the longevity of a particular medium.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Additional comments on TIFF *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the brief discussion period that followed BATTIN's presentation,
BARONAS explained that TIFF was not developed in collaboration with or
under the auspices of AIIM.  TIFF is a company product, not a standard,
is owned by two corporations, and is always changing.  BARONAS also
observed that ANSI/AIIM MS53, a bi-level image file transfer format that
allows unlike systems to exchange images, is compatible with TIFF as well
as with DEC's architecture and IBM's MODCA/IOCA.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
HOOTON * Several questions to be considered in discussing text conversion
*
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

HOOTON introduced the final topic, text conversion, by noting that it is
becoming an increasingly important part of the imaging business.  Many
people now realize that it enhances their system to be able to have more
and more character data as part of their imaging system.  Re the issue of
OCR versus rekeying, HOOTON posed several questions:  How does one get
text into computer-readable form?  Does one use automated processes?
Does one attempt to eliminate the use of operators where possible?
Standards for accuracy, he said, are extremely important:  it makes a
major difference in cost and time whether one sets as a standard 98.5
percent acceptance or 99.5 percent.  He mentioned outsourcing as a
possibility for converting text.  Finally, what one does with the image
to prepare it for the recognition process is also important, he said,
because such preparation changes how recognition is viewed, as well as
facilitates recognition itself.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
LESK * Roles of participants in CORE * Data flow * The scanning process *
The image interface * Results of experiments involving the use of
electronic resources and traditional paper copies * Testing the issue of
serendipity * Conclusions *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Michael LESK, executive director, Computer Science Research, Bell
Communications Research, Inc. (Bellcore), discussed the Chemical Online
Retrieval Experiment (CORE), a cooperative project involving Cornell
University, OCLC, Bellcore, and the American Chemical Society (ACS).

LESK spoke on 1) how the scanning was performed, including the unusual
feature of page segmentation, and 2) the use made of the text and the
image in experiments.

Working with the chemistry journals (because ACS has been saving its
typesetting tapes since the mid-1970s and thus has a significant back-run
of the most important chemistry journals in the United States), CORE is
attempting to create an automated chemical library.  Approximately a
quarter of the pages by square inch are made up of images of
quasi-pictorial material; dealing with the graphic components of the
pages is extremely important.  LESK described the roles of participants
in CORE:  1) ACS provides copyright permission, journals on paper,
journals on microfilm, and some of the definitions of the files; 2) at
Bellcore, LESK chiefly performs the data preparation, while Dennis Egan
performs experiments on the users of chemical abstracts, and supplies the
indexing and numerous magnetic tapes;  3) Cornell provides the site of the
experiment; 4) OCLC develops retrieval software and other user interfaces.
Various manufacturers and publishers have furnished other help.

Concerning data flow, Bellcore receives microfilm and paper from ACS; the
microfilm is scanned by outside vendors, while the paper is scanned
inhouse on an Improvision scanner, twenty pages per minute at 300 dpi,
which provides sufficient quality for all practical uses.  LESK would
prefer to have more gray level, because one of the ACS journals prints on
some colored pages, which creates a problem.

Bellcore performs all this scanning, creates a page-image file, and also
selects from the pages the graphics, to mix with the text file (which is
discussed later in the Workshop).  The user is always searching the ASCII
file, but she or he may see a display based on the ASCII or a display
based on the images.

LESK illustrated how the program performs page analysis, and the image
interface.  (The user types several words, is presented with a list--
usually of the titles of articles contained in an issue--that derives
from the ASCII, clicks on an icon and receives an image that mirrors an
ACS page.)  LESK also illustrated an alternative interface, based on text
on the ASCII, the so-called SuperBook interface from Bellcore.

LESK next presented the results of an experiment conducted by Dennis Egan
and involving thirty-six students at Cornell, one third of them
undergraduate chemistry majors, one third senior undergraduate chemistry
majors, and one third graduate chemistry students.  A third of them
received the paper journals, the traditional paper copies and chemical
abstracts on paper.  A third received image displays of the pictures of
the pages, and a third received the text display with pop-up graphics.

The students were given several questions made up by some chemistry
professors.  The questions fell into five classes, ranging from very easy
to very difficult, and included questions designed to simulate browsing
as well as a traditional information retrieval-type task.

LESK furnished the following results.  In the straightforward question
search--the question being, what is the phosphorus oxygen bond distance
and hydroxy phosphate?--the students were told that they could take
fifteen minutes and, then, if they wished, give up.  The students with
paper took more than fifteen minutes on average, and yet most of them
gave up.  The students with either electronic format, text or image,
received good scores in reasonable time, hardly ever had to give up, and
usually found the right answer.

In the browsing study, the students were given a list of eight topics,
told to imagine that an issue of the Journal of the American Chemical
Society had just appeared on their desks, and were also told to flip
through it and to find topics mentioned in the issue.  The average scores
were about the same.  (The students were told to answer yes or no about
whether or not particular topics appeared.)  The errors, however, were
quite different.  The students with paper rarely said that something
appeared when it had not.  But they often failed to find something
actually mentioned in the issue.  The computer people found numerous
things, but they also frequently said that a topic was mentioned when it
was not.  (The reason, of course, was that they were performing word
searches.  They were finding that words were mentioned and they were
concluding that they had accomplished their task.)

This question also contained a trick to test the issue of serendipity.
The students were given another list of eight topics and instructed,
without taking a second look at the journal, to recall how many of this
new list of eight topics were in this particular issue.  This was an
attempt to see if they performed better at remembering what they were not
looking for.  They all performed about the same, paper or electronics,
about 62 percent accurate.  In short, LESK said, people were not very
good when it came to serendipity, but they were no worse at it with
computers than they were with paper.

(LESK gave a parenthetical illustration of the learning curve of students
who used SuperBook.)

The students using the electronic systems started off worse than the ones
using print, but by the third of the three sessions in the series had
caught up to print.  As one might expect, electronics provide a much
better means of finding what one wants to read; reading speeds, once the
object of the search has been found, are about the same.

Almost none of the students could perform the hard task--the analogous
transformation.  (It would require the expertise of organic chemists to
complete.)  But an interesting result was that the students using the text
search performed terribly, while those using the image system did best.
That the text search system is driven by text offers the explanation.
Everything is focused on the text; to see the pictures, one must press
on an icon.  Many students found the right article containing the answer
to the question, but they did not click on the icon to bring up the right
figure and see it.  They did not know that they had found the right place,
and thus got it wrong.

The short answer demonstrated by this experiment was that in the event
one does not know what to read, one needs the electronic systems; the
electronic systems hold no advantage at the moment if one knows what to
read, but neither do they impose a penalty.

LESK concluded by commenting that, on one hand, the image system was easy
to use.  On the other hand, the text display system, which represented
twenty man-years of work in programming and polishing, was not winning,
because the text was not being read, just searched.  The much easier
system is highly competitive as well as remarkably effective for the
actual chemists.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
ERWAY * Most challenging aspect of working on AM * Assumptions guiding
AM's approach * Testing different types of service bureaus * AM's
requirement for 99.95 percent accuracy * Requirements for text-coding *
Additional factors influencing AM's approach to coding * Results of AM's
experience with rekeying * Other problems in dealing with service bureaus
* Quality control the most time-consuming aspect of contracting out
conversion * Long-term outlook uncertain *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

To Ricky ERWAY, associate coordinator, American Memory, Library of
Congress, the constant variety of conversion projects taking place
simultaneously represented perhaps the most challenging aspect of working
on AM.  Thus, the challenge was not to find a solution for text
conversion but a tool kit of solutions to apply to LC's varied
collections that need to be converted.  ERWAY limited her remarks to the
process of converting text to machine-readable form, and the variety of
LC's text collections, for example, bound volumes, microfilm, and
handwritten manuscripts.

Two assumptions have guided AM's approach, ERWAY said:  1) A desire not
to perform the conversion inhouse.  Because of the variety of formats and
types of texts, to capitalize the equipment and have the talents and
skills to operate them at LC would be extremely expensive.  Further, the
natural inclination to upgrade to newer and better equipment each year
made it reasonable for AM to focus on what it did best and seek external
conversion services.  Using service bureaus also allowed AM to have
several types of operations take place at the same time.  2) AM was not a
technology project, but an effort to improve access to library
collections.  Hence, whether text was converted using OCR or rekeying
mattered little to AM.  What mattered were cost and accuracy of results.

AM considered different types of service bureaus and selected three to
perform several small tests in order to acquire a sense of the field.
The sample collections with which they worked included handwritten
correspondence, typewritten manuscripts from the 1940s, and
eighteenth-century printed broadsides on microfilm.  On none of these
samples was OCR performed; they were all rekeyed.  AM had several special
requirements for the three service bureaus it had engaged.  For instance,
any errors in the original text were to be retained.  Working from bound
volumes or anything that could not be sheet-fed also constituted a factor
eliminating companies that would have performed OCR.

AM requires 99.95 percent accuracy, which, though it sounds high, often
means one or two errors per page.  The initial batch of test samples
contained several handwritten materials for which AM did not require
text-coding.  The results, ERWAY reported, were in all cases fairly
comparable:  for the most part, all three service bureaus achieved 99.95
percent accuracy.  AM was satisfied with the work but surprised at the cost.

As AM began converting whole collections, it retained the requirement for
99.95 percent accuracy and added requirements for text-coding.  AM needed
to begin performing work more than three years ago before LC requirements
for SGML applications had been established.  Since AM's goal was simply
to retain any of the intellectual content represented by the formatting
of the document (which would be lost if one performed a straight ASCII
conversion), AM used "SGML-like" codes.  These codes resembled SGML tags
but were used without the benefit of document-type definitions.  AM found
that many service bureaus were not yet SGML-proficient.

Additional factors influencing the approach AM took with respect to
coding included:  1) the inability of any known microcomputer-based
user-retrieval software to take advantage of SGML coding; and 2) the
multiple inconsistencies in format of the older documents, which
confirmed AM in its desire not to attempt to force the different formats
to conform to a single document-type definition (DTD) and thus create the
need for a separate DTD for each document.

The five text collections that AM has converted or is in the process of
converting include a collection of eighteenth-century broadsides, a
collection of pamphlets, two typescript document collections, and a
collection of 150 books.

ERWAY next reviewed the results of AM's experience with rekeying, noting
again that because the bulk of AM's materials are historical, the quality
of the text often does not lend itself to OCR.  While non-English
speakers are less likely to guess or elaborate or correct typos in the
original text, they are also less able to infer what we would; they also
are nearly incapable of converting handwritten text.  Another
disadvantage of working with overseas keyers is that they are much less
likely to telephone with questions, especially on the coding, with the
result that they develop their own rules as they encounter new
situations.

Government contracting procedures and time frames posed a major challenge
to performing the conversion.  Many service bureaus are not accustomed to
retaining the image, even if they perform OCR.  Thus, questions of image
format and storage media were somewhat novel to many of them.  ERWAY also
remarked other problems in dealing with service bureaus, for example,
their inability to perform text conversion from the kind of microfilm
that LC uses for preservation purposes.

But quality control, in ERWAY's experience, was the most time-consuming
aspect of contracting out conversion.  AM has been attempting to perform
a 10-percent quality review, looking at either every tenth document or
every tenth page to make certain that the service bureaus are maintaining
99.95 percent accuracy.  But even if they are complying with the
requirement for accuracy, finding errors produces a desire to correct
them and, in turn, to clean up the whole collection, which defeats the
purpose to some extent.  Even a double entry requires a
character-by-character comparison to the original to meet the accuracy
requirement.  LC is not accustomed to publish imperfect texts, which
makes attempting to deal with the industry standard an emotionally
fraught issue for AM.  As was mentioned in the previous day's discussion,
going from 99.95 to 99.99 percent accuracy usually doubles costs and
means a third keying or another complete run-through of the text.

Although AM has learned much from its experiences with various collections
and various service bureaus, ERWAY concluded pessimistically that no
breakthrough has been achieved.   Incremental improvements have occurred
in some of the OCR technology, some of the processes, and some of the
standards acceptances, which, though they may lead to somewhat lower costs,
do not offer much encouragement to many people who are anxiously awaiting
the day that the entire contents of LC are available on-line.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
ZIDAR * Several answers to why one attempts to perform full-text
conversion * Per page cost of performing OCR * Typical problems
encountered during editing * Editing poor copy OCR vs. rekeying *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Judith ZIDAR, coordinator, National Agricultural Text Digitizing Program
(NATDP), National Agricultural Library (NAL), offered several answers to
the question of why one attempts to perform full-text conversion:  1)
Text in an image can be read by a human but not by a computer, so of
course it is not searchable and there is not much one can do with it.  2)
Some material simply requires word-level access.  For instance, the legal
profession insists on full-text access to its material; with taxonomic or
geographic material, which entails numerous names, one virtually requires
word-level access.  3) Full text permits rapid browsing and searching,
something that cannot be achieved in an image with today's technology.
4) Text stored as ASCII and delivered in ASCII is standardized and highly
portable.  5) People just want full-text searching, even those who do not
know how to do it.  NAL, for the most part, is performing OCR at an
actual cost per average-size page of approximately $7.  NAL scans the
page to create the electronic image and passes it through the OCR device.

ZIDAR next rehearsed several typical problems encountered during editing.
Praising the celerity of her student workers, ZIDAR observed that editing
requires approximately five to ten minutes per page, assuming that there
are no large tables to audit.  Confusion among the three characters I, 1,
and l, constitutes perhaps the most common problem encountered.  Zeroes
and  O's also are  frequently confused.  Double M's create a particular
problem, even on clean pages.  They are so wide in most fonts that they
touch, and the system simply cannot tell where one letter ends and the
other begins.  Complex page formats occasionally fail to columnate
properly, which entails rescanning as though one were working with a
single column, entering the ASCII, and decolumnating for better
searching.  With proportionally spaced text, OCR can have difficulty
discerning what is a space and what are merely spaces between letters, as
opposed to spaces between words, and therefore will merge text or break
up words where it should not.

ZIDAR said that it can often take longer to edit a poor-copy OCR than to
key it from scratch.  NAL has also experimented with partial editing of
text, whereby project workers go into and clean up the format, removing
stray characters but not running a spell-check.  NAL corrects typos in
the title and authors' names, which provides a foothold for searching and
browsing.  Even extremely poor-quality OCR (e.g., 60-percent accuracy)
can still be searched, because numerous words are correct, while the
important words are probably repeated often enough that they are likely
to be found correct somewhere.  Librarians, however, cannot tolerate this
situation, though end users seem more willing to use this text for
searching, provided that NAL indicates that it is unedited.  ZIDAR
concluded that rekeying of text may be the best route to take, in spite
of numerous problems with quality control and cost.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Modifying an image before performing OCR * NAL's costs per
page *AM's costs per page and experience with Federal Prison Industries *
Elements comprising NATDP's costs per page * OCR and structured markup *
Distinction between the structure of a document and its representation
when put on the screen or printed *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

HOOTON prefaced the lengthy discussion that followed with several
comments about modifying an image before one reaches the point of
performing OCR.  For example, in regard to an application containing a
significant amount of redundant data, such as form-type data, numerous
companies today are working on various kinds of form renewal, prior to
going through a recognition process, by using dropout colors.  Thus,
acquiring access to form design or using electronic means are worth
considering.  HOOTON also noted that conversion usually makes or breaks
one's imaging system.  It is extremely important, extremely costly in
terms of either capital investment or service, and determines the quality
of the remainder of one's system, because it determines the character of
the raw material used by the system.

Concerning the four projects undertaken by NAL, two inside and two
performed by outside contractors, ZIDAR revealed that an in-house service
bureau executed the first at a cost between $8 and $10 per page for
everything, including building of the database.  The project undertaken
by the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR)
cost approximately $10 per page for the conversion, plus some expenses
for the software and building of the database.  The Acid Rain Project--a
two-disk set produced by the University of Vermont, consisting of
Canadian publications on acid rain--cost $6.70 per page for everything,
including keying of the text, which was double keyed, scanning of the
images, and building of the database.  The in-house project offered
considerable ease of convenience and greater control of the process.  On
the other hand, the service bureaus know their job and perform it
expeditiously, because they have more people.

As a useful comparison, ERWAY revealed AM's costs as follows:  $0.75
cents to $0.85 cents per thousand characters, with an average page
containing 2,700 characters.  Requirements for coding and imZTRMT
RMXIVZHV GSV XLHGH.  GSFH, XLMEVIHRLM LU GSV GVCG, RMXOFWRMT GSV XLWRMT,
XLHGH ZKKILCRNZGVOB $3 KVI KZTV.  (GSRH URTFIV WLVH MLG RMXOFWV GSV
RNZTRMT ZMW WZGZYZHV-YFROWRMT RMXOFWVW RM GSV MZO XLHGH.)  ZN ZOHL
VMQLBVW Z SZKKB VCKVIRVMXV DRGS UVWVIZO KIRHLM RMWFHGIRVH, DSRXS
KIVXOFWVW GSV MVXVHHRGB LU TLRMT GSILFTS GSV IVJFVHG-ULI-KILKLHZO KILXVHH
GL ZDZIW Z XLMGIZXG, YVXZFHV RG RH ZMLGSVI TLEVIMNVMG ZTVMXB.  GSV
KIRHLMVIH KVIULINVW ZN'H IVPVBRMT QFHG ZH DVOO ZH LGSVI HVIERXV YFIVZFH
ZMW KILEVW SZMWB ZH DVOO.  ZN HSRKKVW GSVN GSV YLLPH, DSRXS GSVB DLFOW
KSLGLXLKB LM Z YLLP-VWTV HXZMMVI.  GSVB DLFOW KVIULIN GSV NZIPFK LM
KSLGLXLKRVH, IVGFIM GSV YLLPH ZH HLLM ZH GSVB DVIV WLMV DRGS GSVN,
KVIULIN GSV PVBRMT, ZMW IVGFIM GSV NZGVIRZO GL ZN LM DLIN WRHPH.

ARWZI WVGZROVW GSV VOVNVMGH GSZG XLMHGRGFGV GSV KIVERLFHOB MLGVW XLHG LU
ZKKILCRNZGVOB $7 KVI KZTV.  NLHG HRTMRURXZMG RH GSV VWRGRMT, XLIIVXGRLM
LU VIILIH, ZMW HKVOO-XSVXPRMTH, DSRXS GSLFTS GSVB NZB HLFMW VZHB GL
KVIULIN IVJFRIV, RM UZXG, Z TIVZG WVZO LU GRNV.  IVULINZGGRMT GVCG ZOHL
GZPVH Z DSROV, YFG Z HRTMRURXZMG ZNLFMG LU MZO'H VCKVMHVH ZIV ULI VJFRKNVMG,
DSRXS DZH VCGIVNVOB VCKVMHREV DSVM KFIXSZHVW YVXZFHV RG DZH LMV LU GSV UVD
HBHGVNH LM GSV NZIPVG.  GSV XLHGH LU VJFRKNVMG ZIV YVRMT ZNLIGRAVW LEVI
UREV BVZIH YFG ZIV HGROO JFRGV SRTS, MVZIOB $2,000 KVI NLMGS.

SLXPVB IZRHVW Z TVMVIZO JFVHGRLM XLMXVIMRMT LXI ZMW GSV ZNLFMG LU VWRGRMT
IVJFRIVW (HFYHGZMGRZO RM SVI VCKVIRVMXV) GL TVMVIZGV GSV PRMW LU
HGIFXGFIVW NZIPFK MVXVHHZIB ULI NZMRKFOZGRMT GSV GVCG LM GSV XLNKFGVI LI
OLZWRMT RG RMGL ZMB IVGIRVEZO HBHGVN.  HSV DLMWVIVW RU GSV HKVZPVIH XLFOW
VCGVMW GSV KIVERLFH JFVHGRLM ZYLFG GSV XLHG-YVMVURG LU ZWWRMT LI VCVIGRMT
HGIFXGFIVW NZIPFK.  VIDZB MLGVW GSZG HVEVIZO LXI HBHGVNH IVGZRM RGZORXH,
YLOWRMT, ZMW LGSVI HKZGRZO ULINZGGRMT.  DSROV GSV NZGVIRZO NZB MLG YV RM
GSV ULINZG WVHRIVW, GSVHV HBHGVNH KLHHVHH GSV ZYRORGB GL IVNLEV GSV
LIRTRMZO NZGVIRZOH JFRXPOB UILN GSV SZMWH LU GSV KVLKOV KVIULINRMT GSV
XLMEVIHRLM, ZH DVOO ZH GL IVGZRM GSZG RMULINZGRLM HL GSZG FHVIH XZM DLIP
DRGS RG.  SLXPVB IVQLRMVW GSZG GSV XFIIVMG GSRMPRMT LM NZIPFK RH GSZG LMV
HSLFOW MLG HZB GSZG HLNVGSRMT RH RGZORX LI YLOW HL NFXS ZH DSB RG RH GSZG
DZB.  GL YV HFIV, LMV MVVWH GL PMLD GSZG HLNVGSRMT DZH RGZORXRAVW, YFG
SLD XZM LMV TVG UILN LMV GL GSV LGSVI?  LMV XZM NZK UILN GSV HGIFXGFIV GL
GSV GBKLTIZKSRX IVKIVHVMGZGRLM.

UOVRHXSSZFVI HFTTVHGVW GSZG, TREVM GSV 100 NROORLM RGVNH GSV ORYIZIB
SLOWH, RG NZB MLG YV KLHHRYOV ULI OX GL WL NLIV GSZM IVKLIG GSZG Z GSRMT
DZH RM RGZORXH ZH LKKLHVW GL DSB RG DZH RGZORXH, ZOGSLFTS GSZG NZB YV
WVHRIZYOV RM HLNV XLMGVCGH.  KILNRHRMT GL GZOP Z YRG WFIRMT GSV ZUGVIMLLM
HVHHRLM ZYLFG HVEVIZO VCKVIRNVMGH LXOX KVIULINVW LM ZFGLNZGRX IVXLTMRGRLM
LU WLXFNVMG VOVNVMGH, ZMW DSRXS GSVB SLKVW GL VCGVMW, DVRYVO HZRW GSZG RM
UZXG LMV XZM IVXLTMRAV GSV NZQLI VOVNVMGH LU Z WLXFNVMG DRGS Z UZRIOB
SRTS WVTIVV LU IVORZYRORGB, ZG OVZHG ZH TLLW ZH LXI.  HGVEVMH WIVD Z
FHVUFO WRHGRMXGRLM YVGDVVM HGZMWZIW, TVMVIZORAVW NZIPFK (R.V., WVURMRMT
ULI Z WLXFNVMG-GBKV WVURMRGRLM GSV HGIFXGFIV LU GSV WLXFNVMG), ZMW DSZG
SV GVINVW Z HGBOV HSVVG, DSRXS SZW GL WL DRGS RGZORXH, YLOWRMT, ZMW LGSVI
ULINH LU VNKSZHRH.  GSFH, GDL WRUUVIVMG XLNKLMVMGH ZIV ZG DLIP, LMV YVRMT
GSV HGIFXGFIV LU GSV WLXFNVMG RGHVOU (RGH OLTRX), ZMW GSV LGSVI YVRMT RGH
IVKIVHVMGZGRLM DSVM RG RH KFG LM GSV HXIVVM LI KIRMGVW.

                                 ******

HVHHRLM E.  ZKKILZXSVH GL KIVKZIRMT VOVXGILMRX GVCGH

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
SLXPVB * GVCG RM ZHXRR ZMW GSV IVKIVHVMGZGRLM LU VOVXGILMRX GVCG EVIHFH
ZM RNZTV * GSV MVVW GL OLLP ZG DZBH LU FHRMT NZIPFK GL ZHHRHG IVGIRVEZO *
GSV MVVW ULI ZM VMXLWRMT ULINZG GSZG DROO YV IVFHZYOV ZMW NFOGRUFMXGRLMZO
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

HFHZM SLXPVB, WRIVXGLI, XVMGVI ULI VOVXGILMRX GVCGH RM GSV SFNZMRGRVH
(XVGS), IFGTVIH ZMW KIRMXVGLM FMREVIHRGRVH, ZMMLFMXVW GSZG LMV GZOP
(DVRYVO'H) DZH NLEVW RMGL GSRH HVHHRLM UILN GSV NLIMRMT ZMW GSZG WZERW
KZXPZIW DZH FMZYOV GL ZGGVMW.  GSV HVHHRLM DLFOW ZGGVNKG GL ULXFH NLIV LM
DSZG LMV XZM WL DRGS Z GVCG RM ZHXRR ZMW GSV IVKIVHVMGZGRLM LU VOVXGILMRX
GVCG IZGSVI GSZM QFHG ZM RNZTV, DSZG LMV XZM WL DRGS Z XLNKFGVI GSZG
XZMMLG YV WLMV DRGS Z YLLP LI ZM RNZTV.  RG DLFOW YV ZITFVW GSZG LMV XZM
WL NFXS NLIV GSZM QFHG IVZW Z GVCG, ZMW UILN GSZG HGZIGRMT KLRMG LMV XZM
FHV NZIPFK ZMW NVGSLWH LU KIVKZIRMT GSV GVCG GL GZPV UFOO ZWEZMGZTV LU
GSV XZKZYRORGB LU GSV XLNKFGVI.  GSZG DLFOW OVZW GL Z WRHXFHHRLM LU DSZG
