This presentation describes the development of AIIM's EIM standards and a
new effort at AIIM, a database on standards projects in a wide framework
of imaging industries including capture, recording, processing,
duplication, distribution, display, evaluation, and preservation.  The
AIIM Imagery Database will cover imaging standards being developed by
many organizations in many different countries.  It will contain
standards publications' dates, origins, related national and
international projects, status, key words, and abstracts.  The ANSI Image
Technology Standards Board requested that such a database be established,
as did the ISO/International Electrotechnical Commission Joint Task Force
on Imagery.  AIIM will take on the leadership role for the database and
coordinate its development with several standards developers.

Patricia BATTIN

     Characteristics of standards for digital imagery:

          * Nature of digital technology implies continuing volatility.

          * Precipitous standard-setting not possible and probably not
          desirable.

          * Standards are a complex issue involving the medium, the
          hardware, the software, and the technical capacity for
          reproductive fidelity and clarity.

          * The prognosis for reliable archival standards (as defined by
          librarians) in the foreseeable future is poor.

     Significant potential and attractiveness of digital technology as a
     preservation medium and access mechanism.

     Productive use of digital imagery for preservation requires a
     reconceptualizing of preservation principles in a volatile,
     standardless world.

     Concept of managing continuing access in the digital environment
     rather than focusing on the permanence of the medium and long-term
     archival standards developed for the analog world.

     Transition period:  How long and what to do?

          *  Redefine "archival."

          *  Remove the burden of "archival copy" from paper artifacts.

          *  Use digital technology for storage, develop management
          strategies for refreshing medium, hardware and software.

          *  Create acid-free paper copies for transition period backup
          until we develop reliable procedures for ensuring continuing
          access to digital files.

SESSION IV-D

Stuart WEIBEL            The Role of SGML Markup in the CORE Project (6)

The emergence of high-speed telecommunications networks as a basic
feature of the scholarly workplace is driving the demand for electronic
document delivery.  Three distinct categories of electronic
publishing/republishing are necessary to support access demands in this
emerging environment:

     1.)  Conversion of paper or microfilm archives to electronic format
     2.)  Conversion of electronic files to formats tailored to
          electronic retrieval and display
     3.)  Primary electronic publishing (materials for which the
          electronic version is the primary format)

OCLC has experimental or product development activities in each of these
areas.  Among the challenges that lie ahead is the integration of these
three types of information stores in coherent distributed systems.

The CORE (Chemistry Online Retrieval Experiment) Project is a model for
the conversion of large text and graphics collections for which
electronic typesetting files are available (category 2).  The American
Chemical Society has made available computer typography files dating from
1980 for its twenty journals.  This collection of some 250 journal-years
is being converted to an electronic format that will be accessible
through several end-user applications.

The use of Standard Generalized Markup Language (SGML) offers the means
to capture the structural richness of the original articles in a way that
will support a variety of retrieval, navigation, and display options
necessary to navigate effectively in very large text databases.

An SGML document consists of text that is marked up with descriptive tags
that specify the function of a given element within the document.  As a
formal language construct, an SGML document can be parsed against a
document-type definition (DTD) that unambiguously defines what elements
are allowed and where in the document they can (or must) occur.  This
formalized map of article structure allows the user interface design to
be uncoupled from the underlying database system, an important step
toward interoperability.  Demonstration of this separability is a part of
the CORE project, wherein user interface designs born of very different
philosophies will access the same database.

NOTES:
     (6)  The CORE project is a collaboration among Cornell University's
     Mann Library, Bell Communications Research (Bellcore), the American
     Chemical Society (ACS), the Chemical Abstracts Service (CAS), and
     OCLC.

Michael LESK                  The CORE Electronic Chemistry Library

A major on-line file of chemical journal literature complete with
graphics is being developed to test the usability of fully electronic
access to documents, as a joint project of Cornell University, the
American Chemical Society, the Chemical Abstracts Service, OCLC, and
Bellcore (with additional support from Sun Microsystems, Springer-Verlag,
DigitaI Equipment Corporation, Sony Corporation of America, and Apple
Computers).  Our file contains the American Chemical Society's on-line
journals, supplemented with the graphics from the paper publication.  The
indexing of the articles from Chemical Abstracts Documents is available
in both image and text format, and several different interfaces can be
used.  Our goals are (1) to assess the effectiveness and acceptability of
electronic access to primary journals as compared with paper, and (2) to
identify the most desirable functions of the user interface to an
electronic system of journals, including in particular a comparison of
page-image display with ASCII display interfaces.  Early experiments with
chemistry students on a variety of tasks suggest that searching tasks are
completed much faster with any electronic system than with paper, but
that for reading all versions of the articles are roughly equivalent.

Pamela ANDRE and Judith ZIDAR

Text conversion is far more expensive and time-consuming than image
capture alone.  NAL's experience with optical character recognition (OCR)
will be related and compared with the experience of having text rekeyed.
What factors affect OCR accuracy?  How accurate does full text have to be
in order to be useful?  How do different users react to imperfect text?
These are questions that will be explored.  For many, a service bureau
may be a better solution than performing the work inhouse; this will also
be discussed.

SESSION VI

Marybeth PETERS

Copyright law protects creative works.  Protection granted by the law to
authors and disseminators of works includes the right to do or authorize
the following:  reproduce the work, prepare derivative works, distribute
the work to the public, and publicly perform or display the work.  In
addition, copyright owners of sound recordings and computer programs have
the right to control rental of their works.  These rights are not
unlimited; there are a number of exceptions and limitations.

An electronic environment places strains on the copyright system.
Copyright owners want to control uses of their work and be paid for any
use; the public wants quick and easy access at little or no cost.  The
marketplace is working in this area.  Contracts, guidelines on electronic
use, and collective licensing are in use and being refined.

Issues concerning the ability to change works without detection are more
difficult to deal with.  Questions concerning the integrity of the work
and the status of the changed version under the copyright law are to be
addressed.  These are public policy issues which require informed
dialogue.


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                Appendix III:  DIRECTORY OF PARTICIPANTS


PRESENTERS:

     Pamela Q.J. Andre
     Associate Director, AutomatiLM
     MZGRLMZO ZTIRXFOGFIZO ORYIZIB
     10301 YZOGRNLIV YLFOVEZIW
     YVOGHEROOV, NW 20705-2351
     KSLMV:  (301) 504-6813
     UZC:  (301) 504-7473
     V-NZRO:  RMGVIMVG:  KZMWIV@ZHII.ZIHFHWZ.TLE

     QVZM YZILMZH, HVMRLI NZMZTVI
     WVKZIGNVMG LU HGZMWZIWH ZMW GVXSMLOLTB
     ZHHLXRZGRLM ULI RMULINZGRLM ZMW RNZTV NZMZTVNVMG (ZRRN)
     1100 DZBMV ZEVMFV, HFRGV 1100
     HROEVI HKIRMT, NW 20910
     KSLMV:  (301) 587-8202
     UZC:  (301) 587-2711

     KZGIRXRZ YZGGRM, KIVHRWVMG
     GSV XLNNRHHRLM LM KIVHVIEZGRLM ZMW ZXXVHH
     1400 16GS HGIVVG, M.D.
     HFRGV 740
     DZHSRMTGLM, WX 20036-2217
     KSLMV:  (202) 939-3400
     UZC:  (202) 939-3407
     V-NZRO:  XKZ@TDFEN.YRGMVG

     SLDZIW YVHHVI
     XVMGIV XZMZWRVM W'ZIXSRGVXGFIV
     (XZMZWRZM XVMGVI ULI ZIXSRGVXGFIV)
     1920, IFV YZROV
     NLMGIVZO, JFVYVX S3S 2H6
     XZMZWZ
     KSLMV:  (514) 939-7001
     UZC:  (514) 939-7020
     V-NZRO:  SLDZIW@ORH.KRGG.VWF

     VWDRM Y. YILDMIRTT, VCVXFGREV WRIVXGLI
     NVNVC IVHVZIXS RMHGRGFGV
     422 YLMRGZ ZEVMFV
     ILHVEROOV, XZ 95678
     KSLMV:  (916) 784-2298
     UZC:  (916) 786-7559
     V-NZRO:  YRGMVG:  NVNVC@XZOHGZGV.2

     VIRX N. XZOZOFXZ, ERXV KIVHRWVMG
     XSZWDBXP-SVZOVB, RMX.
     1101 PRMT HGIVVG
     ZOVCZMWIRZ, EZ 223O4
     KSLMV:  (800) 752-05O5
     UZC:  (703) 683-7589

     QZNVH WZOB
     4015 WVVKDLLW ILZW
     YZOGRNLIV, NW 21218-1404
     KSLMV:  (410) 235-0763

     IRXPB VIDZB, ZHHLXRZGV XLLIWRMZGLI
     ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB
     ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH
     KSLMV:  (202) 707-6233
     UZC:  (202) 707-3764

     XZIO UOVRHXSSZFVI, XLLIWRMZGLI
     ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB
     ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH
     KSLMV:  (202) 707-6233
     UZC:  (202) 707-3764

     QLZMMV UIVVNZM
     2000 QVUUVIHLM KZIP ZEVMFV, ML. 7
     XSZIOLGGVHEROOV, EZ  22903

     KILHHVI TRUULIW
     WRIVXGLI ULI HXSLOZIOB KILTIZNH
     ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH
     KSLMV:  (202) 707-1517
     UZC:  (202) 707-9898
     V-NZRO:  KTRU@HVJ1.OLX.TLE

     QZXJFVORMV SVHH, WRIVXGLI
     MZGRLMZO WVNLMHGIZGRLM OZYLIZGLIB
       ULI RMGVIZXGREV RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTRVH
     ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH
     KSLMV:  (202) 707-4157
     UZC:  (202) 707-2829

     HFHZM SLXPVB, WRIVXGLI
     XVMGVI ULI VOVXGILMRX GVCGH RM GSV SFNZMRGRVH (XVGS)
     ZOVCZMWVI ORYIZIB
     IFGTVIH FMREVIHRGB
     169 XLOOVTV ZEVMFV
     MVD YIFMHDRXP, MQ 08903
     KSLMV:  (908) 932-1384
     UZC:  (908) 932-1386
     V-NZRO:  SLXPVB@ALWRZX.IFGTVIH.VWF

     DROORZN O. SLLGLM, ERXV KIVHRWVMG
     YFHRMVHH & GVXSMRXZO WVEVOLKNVMG
       RNZTRMT & RMULINZGRLM HBHGVNH TILFK
     R-MVG
     6430 ILXPOVWTV WIREV, HFRGV 400
     YVGSVHWZ, NW 208O7
     KSLMV:  (301) 564-6750
     UZC:  (513) 564-6867

     ZMMV I. PVMMVB, ZHHLXRZGV WRIVXGLI
     WVKZIGNVMG LU KIVHVIEZGRLM ZMW XLMHVIEZGRLM
     701 LORM ORYIZIB
     XLIMVOO FMREVIHRGB
     RGSZXZ, MB 14853
     KSLMV:  (607) 255-6875
     UZC:  (607) 255-9346
     V-NZRO:  OBWB@XLIMVOOZ.YRGMVG

     ILMZOW O. OZIHVM
     ZHHLXRZGV WRIVXGLI ULI RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTB
     FMREVIHRGB LU NZIBOZMW ZG XLOOVTV KZIP
     ILLN Y0224, NXPVOWRM ORYIZIB
     XLOOVTV KZIP, NW 20742-7011
     KSLMV:  (301) 405-9194
     UZC:  (301) 314-9865
     V-NZRO:  IOZIHVM@ORYI.FNW.VWF

     NZIRZ O. OVYILM, NZMZTRMT VWRGLI
     GSV LMORMV QLFIMZO LU XFIIVMG XORMRXZO GIRZOH
     O333 S HGIVVG, M.D.
     DZHSRMTGLM, WX 20005
     KSLMV:  (202) 326-6735
     UZC:  (202) 842-2868
     V-NZRO:  KFYHZZZH@TDFEN.YRGMVG

     NRXSZVO OVHP, VCVXFGREV WRIVXGLI
     XLNKFGVI HXRVMXV IVHVZIXS
     YVOO XLNNFMRXZGRLMH IVHVZIXS, RMX.
     IN 2Z-385
     445 HLFGS HGIVVG
     NLIIRHGLDM, MQ 07960-O9O0
     KSLMV:  (201) 829-4070
     UZC:  (201) 829-5981
     V-NZRO:  OVHP@YVOOXLIV.XLN (RMGVIMVG) LI YVOOXLIV!OVHP (FFXK)

     XORUULIW Z. OBMXS
     WRIVXGLI, ORYIZIB ZFGLNZGRLM
     FMREVIHRGB LU XZORULIMRZ,
        LUURXV LU GSV KIVHRWVMG
     300 OZPVHRWV WIREV, 8GS UOLLI
     LZPOZMW, XZ 94612-3350
     KSLMV:  (510) 987-0522
     UZC:  (510) 839-3573
     V-NZRO:  XZOFI@FXXNEHZ

     ZEIZ NRXSVOHLM
     MZGRLMZO ZIXSREVH ZMW IVXLIWH ZWNRMRHGIZGRLM
     MHA IN. 14M
     7GS & KVMMHBOEZMRZ, M.D.
     DZHSRMTGLM, W.X. 20408
     KSLMV:  (202) 501-5544
     UZC:  (202) 501-5533
     V-NZRO:  GNR@XF.MRS.TLE

     VOOR NBOLMZH, NZMZTRMT VWRGLI
     KVIHVFH KILQVXG
     WVKZIGNVMG LU GSV XOZHHRXH
     SZIEZIW FMREVIHRGB
     319 YLBOHGLM SZOO
     XZNYIRWTV, NZ 02138
     KSLMV:  (617) 495-9025, (617) 495-0456 (WRIVXG)
     UZC:  (617) 496-8886
     V-NZRO:  VOOR@RPZILH.SZIEZIW.VWF LI VOOR@DQS12.SZIEZIW.VWF

     WZERW DLLWOVB KZXPZIW
     KZXPZIW SFNZMRGRVH RMHGRGFGV
     300 HVXLMW HGIVVG, HFRGV 201
     OLH ZOGLH, XZ 94002
     KSLMV:  (415) 948-0150 (KSR)
     UZC:  (415) 948-5793

     OBMMV P. KVIHLMRFH, ZHHRHGZMG WRIVXGLI
     XLIMVOO RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTRVH ULI
      HXSLOZIOB RMULINZGRLM HLFIXVH
     502 LORM ORYIZIB
     XLIMVOO FMREVIHRGB
     RGSZXZ, MB 14853
     KSLMV:  (607) 255-3393
     UZC:  (607) 255-9346
     V-NZRO:  QIM@XLIMVOOX.YRGMVG

     NZIBYVGS KVGVIH
     KLORXB KOZMMRMT ZWERHVI GL GSV
       IVTRHGVI LU XLKBIRTSGH
     ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH
     LUURXV ON 403
     KSLMV:  (202) 707-8350
     UZC:  (202) 707-8366

     X. NRXSZVO HKVIYVIT-NXJFVVM
     VWRGLI, GVCG VMXLWRMT RMRGRZGREV
     XLNKFGVI XVMGVI (N/X 135)
     FMREVIHRGB LU ROORMLRH ZG XSRXZTL
     YLC 6998
     XSRXZTL, RO 60680
     KSLMV:  (312) 413-0317
     UZC:  (312) 996-6834
