material, file size, fidelity to the original, and on-screen display; and
printing and equipment availability.  All these factors must be taken
into consideration.

CXP placed primary emphasis on the production in a timely and
cost-effective manner of printed facsimiles that consisted largely of
black-and-white text.  With binary scanning, large files may be
compressed efficiently and in a lossless manner (i.e., no data is lost in
the process of compressing [and decompressing] an image--the exact
bit-representation is maintained) using Group 4 CCITT (i.e., the French
acronym for International Consultative Committee for Telegraph and
Telephone) compression.  CXP was getting compression ratios of about
forty to one.  Gray-scale compression, which primarily uses JPEG, is much
less economical and can represent a lossy compression (i.e., not
lossless), so that as one compresses and decompresses, the illustration
is subtly changed.  While binary files produce a high-quality printed
version, it appears 1) that other combinations of spatial resolution with
gray and/or color hold great promise as well, and 2) that gray scale can
represent a tremendous advantage for on-screen viewing.  The qFZORGB
ZHHLXRZGVW DRGS YRMZIB ZMW TIZB HXZOV ZOHL WVKVMWH LM GSV VJFRKNVMG FHVW.
ULI RMHGZMXV, YRMZIB HXZMMRMT KILWFXVH Z NFXS YVGGVI XLKB LM Z YRMZIB
KIRMGVI.

ZNLMT XCK'H URMWRMTH XLMXVIMRMT GSV KILWFXGRLM LU NRXILURON UILN WRTRGZO
UROVH, PVMMVB IVKLIGVW GSZG GSV WRTRGZO UROVH ULI GSV HZNV IVVW OVXGFIV
DVIV FHVW GL KILWFXV HZNKOV URON FHRMT ZM VOVXGILM YVZN IVXLIWVI.  GSV
IVHFOGRMT URON DZH UZRGSUFO GL GSV RNZTV XZKGFIV LU GSV WRTRGZO UROVH,
ZMW DSROV XCK UVOG GSZG GSV GVCG ZMW RNZTV KZTVH IVKIVHVMGVW RM GSV IVVW
OVXGFIV DVIV HFKVIRLI GL GSZG LU GSV ORTSG-OVMH URON, GSV IVHLOFGRLM
IVZWRMTH ULI GSV 600 WKR DVIV MLG ZH SRTS ZH HGZMWZIW NRXILURONRMT.
PVMMVB ZITFVW GSZG GSV HGZMWZIWH WVURMVW ULI ORTSG-OVMH GVXSMLOLTB ZIV
MLG GLGZOOB GIZMHUVIZYOV GL Z WRTRGZO VMERILMNVMG.  NLIVLEVI, GSVB ZIV
