such confusion that she never knew whether it was her turn or
not.  So she went in search of her hedgehog.

  The hedgehog was engaged in a fight with another hedgehog,
which seemed to Alice an excellent opportunity for croqueting one
of them with the other:  the only difficulty was, that her
flamingo was gone across to the other side of the garden, where
Alice could see it trying in a helpless sort of way to fly up
into a tree.

  By the time she had caught the flamingo and brought it back,
the fight was over, and both the hedgehogs were out of sight:
`but it doesn't matter much,' thought Alice, `as all the arches
are gone from this side of the ground.'  So she tucked it away
under her arm, that it might not escape again, and went back for
a little more conversation with her friend.

  When she got back to the Cheshire Cat, she was surprised to
find quite a large crowd collected round it:  there was a dispute
going on between the executioner, the King, and the Queen, who
were all talking at once, while all the rest were quite silent,
and looked very uncomfortable.

  The moment Alice appeared, she was appealed to by all three to
settle the question, and they repeated their arguments to her,
though, as they all spoke at once, she found it very hard indeed
to make out exactly what they said.

  The executioner's argument was, that you couldn't cut off a
head unless there was a body to cut it off from:  that he had
never had to do such a thing before, and he wasn't going to begin
at HIS time of life.

  The King's argument was, that anything that had a head could be
beheaded, and that you weren't to talk nonsense.

  The Queen's argument was, that if something wasn't done about
it in less than no time she'd have everybody executed, all round.
(It was this last remark that had made the whole party look so
grave and anxious.)

  Alice could think of nothing else to say but `It belongs to the
Duchess:  you'd better ask HER about it.'

  `She's in prison,' the Queen said to the executioner:  `fetch
her here.'  And the executioner went off like an arrow.

   The Cat's head began fading away the moment he was gonV, ZMW,
YB GSV GRNV SV SZW XLNV YZXP DRGS GSV WFGXSVHH, RG SZW VMGRIVOB
WRHZKKVZIVW; HL GSV PRMT ZMW GSV VCVXFGRLMVI IZM DROWOB FK ZMW
WLDM OLLPRMT ULI RG, DSROV GSV IVHG LU GSV KZIGB DVMG YZXP GL GSV TZNV.



                           XSZKGVI RC

                     GSV NLXP GFIGOV'H HGLIB


  `BLF XZM'G GSRMP SLD TOZW R ZN GL HVV BLF ZTZRM, BLF WVZI LOW
GSRMT!' HZRW GSV WFXSVHH, ZH HSV GFXPVW SVI ZIN ZUUVXGRLMZGVOB
RMGL ZORXV'H, ZMW GSVB DZOPVW LUU GLTVGSVI.

  ZORXV DZH EVIB TOZW GL URMW SVI RM HFXS Z KOVZHZMG GVNKVI, ZMW
GSLFTSG GL SVIHVOU GSZG KVISZKH RG DZH LMOB GSV KVKKVI GSZG SZW
NZWV SVI HL HZEZTV DSVM GSVB NVG RM GSV PRGXSVM.

  `DSVM R'N Z WFXSVHH,' HSV HZRW GL SVIHVOU, (MLG RM Z EVIB
SLKVUFO GLMV GSLFTS), `R DLM'G SZEV ZMB KVKKVI RM NB PRGXSVM ZG
ZOO.  HLFK WLVH EVIB DVOO DRGSLFG--NZBYV RG'H ZODZBH KVKKVI GSZG
NZPVH KVLKOV SLG-GVNKVIVW,' HSV DVMG LM, EVIB NFXS KOVZHVW ZG
SZERMT ULFMW LFG Z MVD PRMW LU IFOV, `ZMW ERMVTZI GSZG NZPVH GSVN
HLFI--ZMW XZNLNROV GSZG NZPVH GSVN YRGGVI--ZMW--ZMW YZIOVB-HFTZI
ZMW HFXS GSRMTH GSZG NZPV XSROWIVM HDVVG-GVNKVIVW.  R LMOB DRHS
KVLKOV PMVD GSZG:  GSVM GSVB DLFOWM'G YV HL HGRMTB ZYLFG RG, BLF
PMLD--'

  HSV SZW JFRGV ULITLGGVM GSV WFXSVHH YB GSRH GRNV, ZMW DZH Z
ORGGOV HGZIGOVW DSVM HSV SVZIW SVI ELRXV XOLHV GL SVI VZI.
`BLF'IV GSRMPRMT ZYLFG HLNVGSRMT, NB WVZI, ZMW GSZG NZPVH BLF
ULITVG GL GZOP.  R XZM'G GVOO BLF QFHG MLD DSZG GSV NLIZO LU GSZG
RH, YFG R HSZOO IVNVNYVI RG RM Z YRG.'

  `KVISZKH RG SZHM'G LMV,' ZORXV EVMGFIVW GL IVNZIP.

  `GFG, GFG, XSROW!' HZRW GSV WFXSVHH.  `VEVIBGSRMT'H TLG Z
NLIZO, RU LMOB BLF XZM URMW RG.'  ZMW HSV HJFVVAVW SVIHVOU FK
XOLHVI GL ZORXV'H HRWV ZH HSV HKLPV.

  ZORXV WRW MLG NFXS ORPV PVVKRMT HL XOLHV GL SVI:  URIHG,
YVXZFHV GSV WFXSVHH DZH EVIB FTOB; ZMW HVXLMWOB, YVXZFHV HSV DZH
VCZXGOB GSV IRTSG SVRTSG GL IVHG SVI XSRM FKLM ZORXV'H HSLFOWVI,
ZMW RG DZH ZM FMXLNULIGZYOB HSZIK XSRM.  SLDVEVI, HSV WRW MLG
ORPV GL YV IFWV, HL HSV YLIV RG ZH DVOO ZH HSV XLFOW.

  `GSV TZNV'H TLRMT LM IZGSVI YVGGVI MLD,' HSV HZRW, YB DZB LU
PVVKRMT FK GSV XLMEVIHZGRLM Z ORGGOV.

  `'GRH HL,' HZRW GSV WFXSVHH:  `ZMW GSV NLIZO LU GSZG RH--"LS,
