
  `Somebody said,' Alice whispered, `that it's done by everybody
minding their own business!'

  `Ah, well!  It means much the same thing,' said the Duchess,
digging her sharp little chin into Alice's shoulder as she added,
`and the moral of THAT is--"Take care of the sense, and the
sounds will take care of themselves."'

  `How fond she is of finding morals in things!' Alice thought to
herself.

  `I dare say you're wondering why I don't put my arm round your
waist,' the Duchess said after a pause:  `the reason is, that I'm
doubtful about the temper of your flamingo.  Shall I try the
experiment?'

  `HE might bite,' Alice cautiously replied, not feeling at all
anxious to have the experiment tried.

  `Very true,' said the Duchess:  `flamingoes and mustard both
bite.  And the moral of that is--"Birds of a feather flock
together."'

  `Only mustard isn't a bird,' Alice remarked.

  `Right, as usual,' said the Duchess:  `what a clear way you
have of putting things!'

  `It's a mineral, I THINK,' said Alice.

  `Of course it is,' said the Duchess, who seemed ready to agree
to everything that Alice said; `there's a large mustard-mine near
here.  And the moral of that is--"The more there is of mine, the
less there is of yours."'

  `Oh, I know!' exclaimed Alice, who had not attended to this
last remark, `it's a vegetable.  It doesn't look like one, but it
is.'

  `I quite agree with you,' said the Duchess; `and the moral of
that is--"Be what you would seem to be"--or if you'd like it put
more simply--"Never imagine yourself not to be otherwise than
what it might appear to others that what you were or might have
been was not otherwise than what you had been would have appeared
to them to be otherwise."'

  `I think I should understand that better,' Alice said very
politely, `if I had it written down:  but I can't quite follow it
as you say it.'

  `That's nothing to what I could say if I chose,' the Duchess
replied, in a pleased tone.

  `Pray don't trouble yourself to say it any longer than that,'
said Alice.

  `Oh, don't talk about trouble!' said the Duchess.  `I make you
a present of everything I've said as yet.'

  `A cheap sort of present!' thought Alice.  `I'm glad they don't
give birthday presents like that!'  But she did not venture to
say it out loud.

  `Thinking again?' the Duchess asked, with another dig of her
sharp little chin.

  `I've a right to think,' said Alice sharply, for she was
beginning to feel a little worried.

  `Just about as much right,' said the Duchess, `as pigs have to
fly; and the m--'

  But here, to Alice's great surprise, the Duchess's voice died
away, even in the middle of her favourite word `moral,' and the
arm that was linked into hers began to tremble.  Alice looked up,
and there stood the Queen in front of them, with her arms folded,
frowning like a thunderstorm.

  `A fine day, your Majesty!' the Duchess began in a low, weak
voice.

  `Now, I give you fair warning,' shouted the Queen, stamping on
the ground as she spoke; `either you or your head must be off,
and that in about half no time!  Take your choice!'

  The Duchess took her choice, and was gone in a moment.

  `Let's go on with the game,' the Queen said to Alice; and Alice
was too much frightened to say a word, but slowly followed her
back to the croquet-ground.

  The other guests had taken advantage of the Queen's absence,
and were resting in the shade:  however, the moment they saw her,
they hurried back to the game, the Queen merely remarking that a
moment's delay would cost them their lives.

  All the time they were playing the Queen never left off
quarrelling with the other players, and shouting `Off with his
head!' or `Off with her head!'  Those whom she sentenced were
taken into custody by the soldiers, who of course had to leave
off being arches to do this, so that by the end of half an hour
or so there were no arches left, and all the players, except the
King, the Queen, and Alice, were in custody and under sentence of
execution.

  Then the Queen left off, quite out of breath, and said to
Alice, `Have you seen the Mock Turtle yet?'

  `No,' said Alice.  `I don't even know what a Mock Turtle is.'

  `It's the thing Mock Turtle Soup is made from,' said the Queen.

  `I never saw one, or heard of one,' said Alice.

  `Come on, then,' said the Queen, `and he shall tell you his
history,'

  As they walked off together, Alice heard the King say in a low
voice, to the company generally, `You are all pardoned.'  `Come,
THAT'S a good thing!' she said to herself, for she had felt quite
unhappy at the number of executions the Queen had ordered.

  They very soon came upon a Gryphon, lying fast asleep in the
sun.  (IF you don't know what a Gryphon is, look at the picture.)
`Up, lazy thing!' said the Queen, `and take this young lady to
see the Mock Turtle, and to hear his history.  I must go back and
see after some executions I have ordered'; and she walked off,
leaving Alice alone with the Gryphon.  Alice did not quite like
the look of the creature, but on the whole she thought it would
be quite as safe to stay with it as to go after that savage
Queen:  so she waited.

  The Gryphon sat up and rubbed its eyes:  then it watched the
Queen till she was out of sight:  then it chuckled.  `What fun!'
said the Gryphon, half to itself, half to Alice.

  `What IS the fun?' said Alice.

  `Why, SHE,' said the Gryphon.  `It's all her fancy, that:  they
never executes nobody, you know.  Come on!'

  `Everybody says "come on!" here,' thought Alice, as she went
slowly after it:  `I never was so ordered about in all my life,
never!'

  They had not gone far before they saw the Mock Turtle in the
distance, sitting sad and lonely on a little ledge of rock, and,
as they came nearer, Alice could hear him sighing as if his heart
would break.  She pitied him deeply.  `What is his sorrow?' she
asked the Gryphon, and the Gryphon answered, very nearly in the
same words as before, `It's all his fancy, that:  he hasn't got
no sorrow, you know.  Come on!'

  So they went up to the Mock Turtle, who looked at them with
large eyes full of tears, but said nothing.

  `This here young lady,' said the Gryphon, `she wants for to
know your history, she do.'

  `I'll tell it her,' said the Mock Turtle in a deep, hollow
tone:  `sit down, both of you, and don't speak a word till I've
finished.'

  So they sat down, and nobody spoke for some minutes.  Alice
thought to herself, `I don't see how he can EVEN finish, if he
doesn't begin.'  But she waited patiently.

  `Once,' said the Mock Turtle at last, with a deep sigh, `I was
a real Turtle.'

  These words were followed by a very long silence, broken only
by an occasional exclamation of `Hjckrrh!' from the Gryphon, and
the constant heavy sobbing of the Mock Turtle.  Alice was very
nearly getting up and saying, `Thank you, sir, for your
interesting story,' but she could not help thinking there MUST be
more to come, so she sat still and said nothing.

  `When we were little,' the Mock Turtle went on at last, more
calmly, though still sobbing a little now and then, `we went to
school in the sea.  The master was an old Turtle--we used to call
him Tortoise--'

  `Why did you call him Tortoise, if he wasn't one?' Alice asked.

  `We called him Tortoise because he taught us,' said the Mock
Turtle angrily:  `really you are very dull!'

  `You ought to be ashamed of yourself for asking such a simple
question,' added the Gryphon; and then they both sat silent and
looked at poor Alice, who felt ready to sink into the earth.  At
last the Gryphon said to the Mock Turtle, `Drive on, old fellow!
Don't be all day about it!' and he went on in these words:

  `Yes, we went to school in the sea, though you mayn't believe
it--'

  `I never said I didn't!' interrupted Alice.

  `You did,' said the Mock Turtle.

  `Hold your tongue!' added the Gryphon, before Alice could speak
again.  The Mock Turtle went on.

  `We had the best of educations--in fact, we went to school
every day--'

  `I'VE been to a day-school, too,' said Alice; `you needn't be
so proud as all that.'

  `With extras?' asked the Mock Turtle a little anxiously.

  `Yes,' said Alice, `we learned French and music.'

  `And washing?' said the Mock Turtle.

  `Certainly not!' said Alice indignantly.

  `Ah! then yours wasn't a really good HXSLLO,' HZRW GSV NLXP
GFIGOV RM Z GLMV LU TIVZG IVORVU.  `MLD ZG LFIH GSVB SZW ZG GSV
VMW LU GSV YROO, "UIVMXS, NFHRX, ZMW DZHSRMT--VCGIZ."'

  `BLF XLFOWM'G SZEV DZMGVW RG NFXS,' HZRW ZORXV; `ORERMT ZG GSV
YLGGLN LU GSV HVZ.'

  `R XLFOWM'G ZUULIW GL OVZIM RG.' HZRW GSV NLXP GFIGOV DRGS Z
HRTS.  `R LMOB GLLP GSV IVTFOZI XLFIHV.'

  `DSZG DZH GSZG?' RMJFRIVW ZORXV.

  `IVVORMT ZMW DIRGSRMT, LU XLFIHV, GL YVTRM DRGS,' GSV NLXP
GFIGOV IVKORVW; `ZMW GSVM GSV WRUUVIVMG YIZMXSVH LU ZIRGSNVGRX--
ZNYRGRLM, WRHGIZXGRLM, FTORURXZGRLM, ZMW WVIRHRLM.'

  `R MVEVI SVZIW LU "FTORURXZGRLM,"' ZORXV EVMGFIVW GL HZB.  `DSZG
RH RG?'

  GSV TIBKSLM ORUGVW FK YLGS RGH KZDH RM HFIKIRHV.  `DSZG!  MVEVI
SVZIW LU FTORUBRMT!' RG VCXOZRNVW.  `BLF PMLD DSZG GL YVZFGRUB
RH, R HFKKLHV?'

  `BVH,' HZRW ZORXV WLFYGUFOOB:  `RG NVZMH--GL--NZPV--ZMBGSRMT--
KIVGGRVI.'

  `DVOO, GSVM,' GSV TIBKSLM DVMG LM, `RU BLF WLM'G PMLD DSZG GL
FTORUB RH, BLF ZIV Z HRNKOVGLM.'

  ZORXV WRW MLG UVVO VMXLFIZTVW GL ZHP ZMB NLIV JFVHGRLMH ZYLFG
RG, HL HSV GFIMVW GL GSV NLXP GFIGOV, ZMW HZRW `DSZG VOHV SZW BLF
GL OVZIM?'

  `DVOO, GSVIV DZH NBHGVIB,' GSV NLXP GFIGOV IVKORVW, XLFMGRMT
LUU GSV HFYQVXGH LM SRH UOZKKVIH, `--NBHGVIB, ZMXRVMG ZMW NLWVIM,
DRGS HVZLTIZKSB:  GSVM WIZDORMT--GSV WIZDORMT-NZHGVI DZH ZM LOW
XLMTVI-VVO, GSZG FHVW GL XLNV LMXV Z DVVP:  SV GZFTSG FH
WIZDORMT, HGIVGXSRMT, ZMW UZRMGRMT RM XLROH.'

  `DSZG DZH GSZG ORPV?' HZRW ZORXV.

  `DVOO, R XZM'G HSLD RG BLF NBHVOU,' GSV NLXP GFIGOV HZRW:  `R'N
GLL HGRUU.  ZMW GSV TIBKSLM MVEVI OVZIMG RG.'

  `SZWM'G GRNV,' HZRW GSV TIBKSLM:  `R DVMG GL GSV XOZHHRXH
NZHGVI, GSLFTS.  SV DZH ZM LOW XIZY, SV DZH.'

  `R MVEVI DVMG GL SRN,' GSV NLXP GFIGOV HZRW DRGS Z HRTS:  `SV
GZFTSG OZFTSRMT ZMW TIRVU, GSVB FHVW GL HZB.'

  `HL SV WRW, HL SV WRW,' HZRW GSV TIBKSLM, HRTSRMT RM SRH GFIM;
ZMW YLGS XIVZGFIVH SRW GSVRI UZXVH RM GSVRI KZDH.

  `ZMW SLD NZMB SLFIH Z WZB WRW BLF WL OVHHLMH?' HZRW ZORXV, RM Z
SFIIB GL XSZMTV GSV HFYQVXG.

  `GVM SLFIH GSV URIHG WZB,' HZRW GSV NLXP GFIGOV: `MRMV GSV
MVCG, ZMW HL LM.'

  `DSZG Z XFIRLFH KOZM!' VCXOZRNVW ZORXV.

  `GSZG'H GSV IVZHLM GSVB'IV XZOOVW OVHHLMH,' GSV TIBKSLM
IVNZIPVW:  `YVXZFHV GSVB OVHHVM UILN WZB GL WZB.'

  GSRH DZH JFRGV Z MVD RWVZ GL ZORXV, ZMW HSV GSLFTSG RG LEVI Z
ORGGOV YVULIV HSV NZWV SVI MVCG IVNZIP.  `GSVM GSV VOVEVMGS WZB
NFHG SZEV YVVM Z SLORWZB?'

  `LU XLFIHV RG DZH,' HZRW GSV NLXP GFIGOV.

  `ZMW SLD WRW BLF NZMZTV LM GSV GDVOUGS?' ZORXV DVMG LM VZTVIOB.

  `GSZG'H VMLFTS ZYLFG OVHHLMH,' GSV TIBKSLM RMGVIIFKGVW RM Z
EVIB WVXRWVW GLMV:  `GVOO SVI HLNVGSRMT ZYLFG GSV TZNVH MLD.'



                            XSZKGVI C

                      GSV OLYHGVI JFZWIROOV


  GSV NLXP GFIGOV HRTSVW WVVKOB, ZMW WIVD GSV YZXP LU LMV UOZKKVI
ZXILHH SRH VBVH.  SV OLLPVW ZG ZORXV, ZMW GIRVW GL HKVZP, YFG ULI
Z NRMFGV LI GDL HLYH XSLPVW SRH ELRXV.  `HZNV ZH RU SV SZW Z YLMV
RM SRH GSILZG,' HZRW GSV TIBKSLM:  ZMW RG HVG GL DLIP HSZPRMT SRN
ZMW KFMXSRMT SRN RM GSV YZXP.  ZG OZHG GSV NLXP GFIGOV IVXLEVIVW
SRH ELRXV, ZMW, DRGS GVZIH IFMMRMT WLDM SRH XSVVPH, SV DVMG LM
ZTZRM:--

  `BLF NZB MLG SZEV OREVW NFXS FMWVI GSV HVZ--' (`R SZEVM'G,'
HZRW ZORXV)--`ZMW KVISZKH BLF DVIV MVEVI VEVM RMGILWFXVW GL Z OLYHGVI--'
(ZORXV YVTZM GL HZB `R LMXV GZHGVW--' YFG XSVXPVW SVIHVOU SZHGROB,
ZMW HZRW `ML, MVEVI') `--HL BLF XZM SZEV ML RWVZ DSZG Z WVORTSGUFO
GSRMT Z OLYHGVI JFZWIROOV RH!'

  `ML, RMWVVW,' HZRW ZORXV.  `DSZG HLIG LU Z WZMXV RH RG?'

  `DSB,' HZRW GSV TIBKSLM, `BLF URIHG ULIN RMGL Z ORMV ZOLMT GSV
HVZ-HSLIV--'

  `GDL ORMVH!' XIRVW GSV NLXP GFIGOV.  `HVZOH, GFIGOVH, HZONLM,
ZMW HL LM; GSVM, DSVM BLF'EV XOVZIVW ZOO GSV QVOOB-URHS LFG LU
GSV DZB--'

  `GSZG TVMVIZOOB GZPVH HLNV GRNV,' RMGVIIFKGVW GSV TIBKSLM.

  `--BLF ZWEZMXV GDRXV--'

  `VZXS DRGS Z OLYHGVI ZH Z KZIGMVI!' XIRVW GSV TIBKSLM.

  `LU XLFIHV,' GSV NLXP GFIGOV HZRW:  `ZWEZMXV GDRXV, HVG GL
KZIGMVIH--'

  `--XSZMTV OLYHGVIH, ZMW IVGRIV RM HZNV LIWVI,' XLMGRMFVW GSV
TIBKSLM.

  `GSVM, BLF PMLD,' GSV NLXP GFIGOV DVMG LM, `BLF GSILD GSV--'

  `GSV OLYHGVIH!' HSLFGVW GSV TIBKSLM, DRGS Z YLFMW RMGL GSV ZRI.

  `--ZH UZI LFG GL HVZ ZH BLF XZM--'

  `HDRN ZUGVI GSVN!' HXIVZNVW GSV TIBKSLM.

  `GFIM Z HLNVIHZFOG RM GSV HVZ!' XIRVW GSV NLXP GFIGOV,
XZKVIRMT DROWOB ZYLFG.

  `YZXP GL OZMW ZTZRM, ZMW GSZG'H ZOO GSV URIHG URTFIV,' HZRW GSV
NLXP GFIGOV, HFWWVMOB WILKKRMT SRH ELRXV; ZMW GSV GDL XIVZGFIVH,
DSL SZW YVVM QFNKRMT ZYLFG ORPV NZW GSRMTH ZOO GSRH GRNV, HZG
WLDM ZTZRM EVIB HZWOB ZMW JFRVGOB, ZMW OLLPVW ZG ZORXV.

