All of the indices driving this kind of usage were originally devised for
speed, MYLONAS observed; in other words, all that kind of information--
all forms of all words, where they exist, the dictionary form they belong
to--were collected into databases, which will expedite searching.  Then
it was discovered that one can do things searching in these databases
that could not be done searching in the full texts.  Thus, although there
are full-text searches in Perseus, much of the work is done behind the
scenes, using prepared indices.  Re the indexing that is done behind the
scenes, MYLONAS pointed out that without the SGML forms of the text, it
could not be done effectively.  Much of this indexing is based on the
structures that are made explicit by the SGML tagging.

It was found that one of the things many of Perseus' non-Greek-reading
users do is start from the dictionary and then move into the close study
of words and concepts via this kind of English-Greek word search, by which
means they might select a concept.  This exercise has been assigned to
students in core courses at Harvard--to study a concept by looking for the
English word in the dictionary, finding the Greek words, and then finding
the words in the Greek but, of course, reading across in the English.
That tells them a great deal about what a translation means as well.

Should one also wish to see images that have to do with sacrifice, that
person would go to the object key word search, which allows one to
perform a similar kind of index retrieval on the database of
archaeological objects.  Without words, pictures are useless; Perseus has
not reached the point where it can do much with images that are not
cataloged.  Thus, although it is possible in Perseus with text and images
to navigate by knowing where one wants to end up--for example, a
red-figure vase from the Boston Museum of Fine Arts--one can perform this
kind of navigation very easily by tracing down indices.  MYLONAS
illustrated several generic scenes of sacrifice on vases.  The features
demonstrated derived from Perseus 1.0; version 2.0 will implement even
better means of retrieval.

MYLONAS closed by looking at one of the pictures and noting again that
one can do a great deal of research using the iconography as well as the
texts.  For instance, students in a core course at Harvard this year were
highly interested in Greek concepts of foreigners and representations of
non-Greeks.  So they performed a great deal of research, both with texts
(e.g., Herodotus) and with iconography on vases and coins, on how the
Greeks portrayed non-Greeks.  At the same time, art historians who study
iconography were also interested, and were able to use this material.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Indexing and searchability of all English words in Perseus *
Several features of Perseus 1.0 * Several levels of customization
possible * Perseus used for general education * Perseus' effects on
education * Contextual information in Perseus * Main challenge and
emphasis of Perseus *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Several points emerged in the discussion that followed MYLONAS's presentation.

Although MYLONAS had not demonstrated Perseus' ability to cross-search
documents, she confirmed that all English words in Perseus are indexed
and can be searched.  So, for example, sacrifice could have been searched
in all texts, the historical essay, and all the catalogue entries with
their descriptions--in short, in all of Perseus.

Boolean logic is not in Perseus 1.0 but will be added to the next
version, although an effort is being made not to restrict Perseus to a
database in which one just performs searching, Boolean or otherwise.  It
is possible to move laterally through the documents by selecting a word
one is interested in and selecting an area of information one is
interested in and trying to look that word up in that area.

Since Perseus was developed in HyperCard, several levels of customization
are possible.  Simple authoring tools exist that allow one to create
annotated paths through the information, which are useful for note-taking
and for guided tours for teaching purposes and for expository writing.
With a little more ingenuity it is possible to begin to add or substitute
material in Perseus.

Perseus has not been used so much for classics education as for general
education, where it seemed to have an impact on the students in the core
course at Harvard (a general required course that students must take in
certain areas).  Students were able to use primary material much more.

The Perseus Project has an evaluation team at the University of Maryland
that has been documenting Perseus' effects on education.  Perseus is very
popular, and anecdotal evidence indicates that it is having an effect at
places other than Harvard, for example, test sites at Ball State
University, Drury College, and numerous small places where opportunities
to use vast amounts of primary data may not exist.  One documented effect
is that archaeological, anthropological, and philological research is
being done by the same person instead of by three different people.

The contextual information in Perseus includes an overview essay, a
fairly linear historical essay on the fifth century B.C. that provides
links into the primary material (e.g., Herodotus, Thucydides, and
Plutarch), via small gray underscoring (on the screen) of linked
passages.  These are handmade links into other material.

To different extents, most of the production work was done at Harvard,
where the people and the equipment are located.  Much of the
collaborative activity involved data collection and structuring, because
the main challenge and the emphasis of Perseus is the gathering of
primary material, that is, building a useful environment for studying
classical Greece, collecting data, and making it useful.
Systems-building is definitely not the main concern.  Thus, much of the
work has involved writing essays, collecting information, rewriting it,
and tagging it.  That can be done off site.  The creative link for the
overview essay as well as for both systems and data was collaborative,
and was forged via E-mail and paper mail with professors at Pomona and
Bowdoin.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
CALALUCA * PLD's principal focus and contribution to scholarship *
Various questions preparatory to beginning the project * Basis for
project * Basic rule in converting PLD * Concerning the images in PLD *
Running PLD under a variety of retrieval softwares * Encoding the
database a hard-fought issue * Various features demonstrated * Importance
of user documentation * Limitations of the CD-ROM version *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Eric CALALUCA, vice president, Chadwyck-Healey, Inc., demonstrated a
software interpretation of the Patrologia Latina Database (PLD).  PLD's
principal focus from the beginning of the project about three-and-a-half
years ago was on converting Migne's Latin series, and in the end,
CALALUCA suggested, conversion of the text will be the major contribution
to scholarship.  CALALUCA stressed that, as possibly the only private
publishing organization at the Workshop, Chadwyck-Healey had sought no
federal funds or national foundation support before embarking upon the
project, but instead had relied upon a great deal of homework and
marketing to accomplish the task of conversion.

Ever since the possibilities of computer-searching have emerged, scholars
in the field of late ancient and early medieval studies (philosophers,
theologians, classicists, and those studying the history of natural law
and the history of the legal development of Western civilization) have
been longing for a fully searchable version of Western literature, for
example, all the texts of Augustine and Bernard of Clairvaux and
Boethius, not to mention all the secondary and tertiary authors.

Various questions arose, CALALUCA said.  Should one convert Migne?
Should the database be encoded?  Is it necessary to do that?  How should
it be delivered?  What about CD-ROM?  Since this is a transitional
medium, why even bother to create software to run on a CD-ROM?  Since
everybody knows people will be networking information, why go to the
trouble--which is far greater with CD-ROM than with the production of
magnetic data?  Finally, how does one make the data available?  Can many
of the hurdles to using electronic information that some publishers have
imposed upon databases be eliminated?

The PLD project was based on the principle that computer-searching of
texts is most effective when it is done with a large database.  Because
PLD represented a collection that serves so many disciplines across so
many periods, it was irresistible.

The basic rule in converting PLD was to do no harm, to avoid the sins of
intrusion in such a database:  no introduction of newer editions, no
on-the-spot changes, no eradicating of all possible falsehoods from an
edition.  Thus, PLD is not the final act in electronic publishing for
this discipline, but simply the beginning.  The conversion of PLD has
evoked numerous unanticipated questions:  How will information be used?
What about networking?  Can the rights of a database be protected?
Should one protect the rights of a database?  How can it be made
available?

Those converting PLD also tried to avoid the sins of omission, that is,
excluding portions of the collections or whole sections.  What about the
images?  PLD is full of images, some are extremely pious
nineteenth-century representations of the Fathers, while others contain
highly interesting elements.  The goal was to cover all the text of Migne
(including notes, in Greek and in Hebrew, the latter of which, in
particular, causes problems in creating a search structure), all the
indices, and even the images, which are being scanned in separately
searchable files.

Several North American institutions that have placed acquisition requests
for the PLD database have requested it in magnetic form without software,
which means they are already running it without software, without
anything demonstrated at the Workshop.

What cannot practically be done is go back and reconvert and re-encode
data, a time-consuming and extremely costly enterprise.  CALALUCA sees
PLD as a database that can, and should, be run under a variety of
retrieval softwares.  This will permit the widest possible searches.
Consequently, the need to produce a CD-ROM of PLD, as well as to develop
software that could handle some 1.3 gigabyte of heavily encoded text,
developed out of conversations with collection development and reference
librarians who wanted software both compassionate enough for the
pedestrian but also capable of incorporating the most detailed
lexicographical studies that a user desires to conduct.  In the end, the
encoding and conversion of the data will prove the most enduring
testament to the value of the project.

The encoding of the database was also a hard-fought issue:  Did the
database need to be encoded? Were there normative structures for encoding
humanist texts?  Should it be SGML?  What about the TEI--will it last,
will it prove useful?  CALALUCA expressed some minor doubts as to whether
a data bank can be fully TEI-conformant.  Every effort can be made, but
in the end to be TEI-conformant means to accept the need to make some
firm encoding decisions that can, indeed, be disputed.  The TEI points
the publisher in a proper direction but does not presume to make all the
decisions for him or her.  Essentially, the goal of encoding was to
eliminate, as much as possible, the hindrances to information-networking,
so that if an institution acquires a database, everybody associated with
the institution can have access to it.

CALALUCA demonstrated a portion of Volume 160, because it had the most
anomalies in it.  The software was created by Electronic Book
Technologies of Providence, RI, and is called Dynatext.  The software
works only with SGML-coded data.

Viewing a table of contents on the screen, the audience saw how Dynatext
treats each element as a book and attempts to simplify movement through a
volume.  Familiarity with the Patrologia in print (i.e., the text, its
source, and the editions) will make the machine-readable versions highly
useful.  (Software with a Windows application was sought for PLD,
CALALUCA said, because this was the main trend for scholarly use.)

CALALUCA also demonstrated how a user can perform a variety of searches
and quickly move to any part of a volume; the look-up screen provides
some basic, simple word-searching.

CALALUCA argued that one of the major difficulties is not the software.
Rather, in creating a product that will be used by scholars representing
a broad spectrum of computer sophistication,  user documentation proves
to be the most important service one can provide.

CALALUCA next illustrated a truncated search under mysterium within ten
words of virtus and how one would be able to find its contents throughout
the entire database.  He said that the exciting thing about PLD is that
many of the applications in the retrieval software being written for it
will exceed the capabilities of the software employed now for the CD-ROM
version.  The CD-ROM faces genuine limitations, in terms of speed and
comprehensiveness, in the creation of a retrieval software to run it.
CALALUCA said he hoped that individual scholars will download the data,
if they wish, to their personal computers, and have ready access to
important texts on a constant basis, which they will be able to use in
their research and from which they might even be able to publish.

(CALALUCA explained that the blue numbers represented Migne's column numbers,
which are the standard scholarly references.  Pulling up a note, he stated
that these texts were heavily edited and the image files would appear simply
as a note as well, so that one could quickly access an image.)

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
FLEISCHHAUER/ERWAY * Several problems with which AM is still wrestling *
Various search and retrieval capabilities * Illustration of automatic
stemming and a truncated search * AM's attempt to find ways to connect
cataloging to the texts * AM's gravitation towards SGML * Striking a
balance between quantity and quality * How AM furnishes users recourse to
images * Conducting a search in a full-text environment * Macintosh and
IBM prototypes of AM * Multimedia aspects of AM *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

A demonstration of American Memory by its coordinator, Carl FLEISCHHAUER,
and Ricky ERWAY, associate coordinator, Library of Congress, concluded
the morning session.  Beginning with a collection of broadsides from the
Continental Congress and the Constitutional Convention, the only text
collection in a presentable form at the time of the Workshop, FLEISCHHAUER
highlighted several of the problems with which AM is still wrestling.
(In its final form, the disk will contain two collections, not only the
broadsides but also the full text with illustrations of a set of
approximately 300 African-American pamphlets from the period 1870 to 1910.)

As FREEMAN had explained earlier, AM has attempted to use a small amount
of interpretation to introduce collections.  In the present case, the
contractor, a company named Quick Source, in Silver Spring, MD., used
software called Toolbook and put together a modestly interactive
introduction to the collection.  Like the two preceding speakers,
FLEISCHHAUER argued that the real asset was the underlying collection.

FLEISCHHAUER proceeded to describe various search and retrieval
capabilities while ERWAY worked the computer.  In this particular package
the "go to" pull-down allowed the user in effect to jump out of Toolbook,
where the interactive program was located, and enter the third-party
software used by AM for this text collection, which is called Personal
Librarian.  This was the Windows version of Personal Librarian, a
software application put together by a company in Rockville, Md.

Since the broadsides came from the Revolutionary War period, a search was
conducted using the words British or war, with the default operator reset
as or.  FLEISCHHAUER demonstrated both automatic stemming (which finds
other forms of the same root) and a truncated search.  One of Personal
Librarian's strongest features, the relevance ranking, was represented by
a chart that indicated how often wLIWH YVRMT HLFTSG ZKKVZIVW RM
WLXFNVMGH, DRGS GSV LMV IVXVRERMT GSV NLHG "SRGH" LYGZRMRMT GSV SRTSVHG
HXLIV.  GSV "SRG ORHG" GSZG RH HFKKORVW GZPVH GSV IVOVEZMXV IZMPRMT RMGL
ZXXLFMG, NZPRMT GSV URIHG SRG, RM VUUVXG, GSV LMV GSV HLUGDZIV SZH
HVOVXGVW ZH GSV NLHG IVOVEZMG VCZNKOV.

DSROV RM GSV GVCG LU LMV LU GSV YILZWHRWV WLXFNVMGH, UOVRHXSSZFVI
IVNZIPVW ZN'H ZGGVNKG GL URMW DZBH GL XLMMVXG XZGZOLTRMT GL GSV GVCGH,
DSRXS RG WLVH RM WRUUVIVMG DZBH RM WRUUVIVMG NZMRUVHGZGRLMH.  RM GSV XZHV
HSLDM, GSV XZGZOLTRMT DZH KZHGVW LM:  ZN GLLP NZIX IVXLIWH GSZG DVIV
DIRGGVM ZH LM-ORMV IVXLIWH IRTSG RMGL LMV LU GSV ORYIZIB'H NZRMUIZNV
IVGIRVEZO KILTIZNH, KFOOVW GSVN LFG, ZMW SZMWVW GSVN LUU GL GSV XLMGIZXGLI,
DSL NZHHZTVW GSVN HLNVDSZG GL WRHKOZB GSVN RM GSV NZMMVI HSLDM.  LMV LU
ZN'H JFVHGRLMH RH, WLVH GSV XZGZOLTFRMT MLINZOOB KVIULINVW RM GSV NZRMUIZNV
DLIP RM GSRH XLMGVCG, LI SZW ZN LFTSG GL GSRMP GSILFTS ZWQFHGNVMGH?

UOVRHXSSZFVI NZWV GSV ZWWRGRLMZO KLRMG GSZG, ZH UZI ZH GSV GVCG TLVH, ZN
SZH TIZERGZGVW GLDZIWH HTNO (SV KLRMGVW GL GSV YLOWUZXV RM GSV FKKVI KZIG
LU GSV HXIVVM).  ZOGSLFTS VCGIVNVOB ORNRGVW RM RGH ZYRORGB GL GIZMHOZGV
LI RMGVIKIVG HTNO, KVIHLMZO ORYIZIRZM DROO UFIMRHS YLGS YLOW ZMW RGZORXH
LM HXIVVM; Z UZRIOB VZHB GSRMT GL WL, YFG RG RH LMV LU GSV DZBH RM DSRXS
HTNO RH FHVUFO.

HGIRPRMT Z YZOZMXV YVGDVVM JFZMGRGB ZMW JFZORGB SZH YVVM Z NZQLI XLMXVIM
LU ZN, DRGS ZXXFIZXB YVRMT LMV LU GSV KOZXVH DSVIV KILQVXG HGZUU SZEV
UVOG GSZG OVHH GSZM 100-KVIXVMG ZXXFIZXB DZH MLG FMZXXVKGZYOV.
UOVRHXSSZFVI XRGVW GSV VCZNKOV LU GSV HGZMWZIW LU GSV IVPVBRMT RMWFHGIB,
MZNVOB 99.95 KVIXVMG; ZH LMV HVIERXV YFIVZF RMULINVW SRN, GL TL UILN
99.95 GL 100 KVIXVMG DLFOW WLFYOV GSV XLHG.

UOVRHXSSZFVI MVCG WVNLMHGIZGVW SLD ZN UFIMRHSVH FHVIH IVXLFIHV GL RNZTVH,
ZMW ZG GSV HZNV GRNV IVXZOOVW OVHP'H KLRMGVW JFVHGRLM XLMXVIMRMT GSV
MFNYVI LU KVLKOV DSL DLFOW OLLP ZG GSLHV RNZTVH ZMW GSV MFNYVI DSL DLFOW
DLIP LMOB DRGS GSV GVCG.  RU GSV RNKORXZGRLM LU OVHP'H JFVHGRLM DZH
HLFMW, UOVRHXSSZFVI HZRW, RG IZRHVW GSV HGZPVH ULI GVCG ZXXFIZXB ZMW
IVWFXVW GSV EZOFV LU GSV HGIZGVTB ULI RNZTVH.

XLMGVMWRMT GSZG KIVHVIEZGRLM RH ZODZBH Z YFTZYLL, UOVRHXSSZFVI
WVNLMHGIZGVW HVEVIZO RNZTVH WVIREVW UILN Z HXZM LU Z KIVHVIEZGRLM
NRXILURON GSZG ZN SZW NZWV.  SV ZDZIWVW Z TIZWV LU X ZG YVHG, KVISZKH Z
X NRMFH LI Z X KOFH, ULI SLD DVOO RG DLIPVW LFG.  RMWVVW, GSV NZGGVI LU
OVZIMRMT RU LGSVI KVLKOV SZW YVGGVI RWVZH ZYLFG HXZMMRMT RM TVMVIZO, ZMW,
RM KZIGRXFOZI, HXZMMRMT UILN NRXILURON, DZH LMV LU GSV UZXGLIH GSZG WILEV
ZN GL ZGGVNKG GL GSRMP GSILFTS GSV ZTVMWZ ULI GSV DLIPHSLK.  HPVD, ULI
VCZNKOV, DZH LMV LU GSV RHHFVH GSZG ZN RM RGH RTMLIZMXV SZW MLG IVXPLMVW
DLFOW KILEV HL WRUURXFOG.

UFIGSVI, GSV SZMWORMT LU RNZTVH LU GSV HLIG HSLDM, RM Z WVHPGLK XLNKFGVI
VMERILMNVMG, RMELOEVW Z XLMHRWVIZYOV ZNLFMG LU ALLNRMT ZMW HXILOORMT.
FOGRNZGVOB, ZN HGZUU UVVO GSZG KVISZKH GSV KZKVI XLKB GSZG RH KIRMGVW LFG
NRTSG YV GSV NLHG FHVUFO LMV, YFG GSVB IVNZRM FMXVIGZRM ZH GL SLD NFXS
LM-HXIVVM IVZWRMT FHVIH DROO WL.

IVGFIMRMT GL GSV GVCG, UOVRHXSSZFVI ZHPVW ERVDVIH GL RNZTRMV Z KVIHLM DSL
NRTSG YV XLMWFXGRMT Z HVZIXS RM Z UFOO-GVCG VMERILMNVMG.  DRGS GSRH
HXVMZIRL, SV KILXVVWVW GL ROOFHGIZGV LGSVI UVZGFIVH LU KVIHLMZO ORYIZIRZM
GSZG SV XLMHRWVIVW SVOKUFO; ULI VCZNKOV, RG KILERWVH GSV ZYRORGB GL
MLGRXV DLIWH ZH LMV IVZWH.  XORXPRMT GSV "RMXOFWV" YFGGLM LM GSV YLGGLN
LU GSV HVZIXS DRMWLD KLKH GSV DLIWH GSZG SZEV YVVM SRTSORTSGVW RMGL GSV
HVZIXS.  GSFH, Z FHVI XZM IVURMV GSV HVZIXS ZH SV LI HSV IVZWH,
IV-VCVXFGRMT GSV HVZIXS ZMW XLMGRMFRMT GL URMW GSRMTH RM GSV JFVHG ULI
NZGVIRZOH.  GSRH HLUGDZIV MLG LMOB XLMGZRMH IVOVEZMXV IZMPRMT, YLLOVZM
LKVIZGLIH, ZMW GIFMXZGRLM, RG ZOHL KVINRGH LMV GL KVIULIN DLIW ZOTVYIZ,
HL GL HZB, DSVIV LMV KFGH GDL LI GSIVV DLIWH RM KZIVMGSVHVH ZMW ORMPH
GSVN DRGS LMV YLLOVZM LKVIZGLI ZMW GSVM Z XLFKOV LU DLIWH RM ZMLGSVI HVG
LU KZIVMGSVHVH ZMW ZHPH ULI GSRMTH DRGSRM HL NZMB DLIWH LU LGSVIH.

FMGRO GSVB YVXZNV ZXJFZRMGVW IVXVMGOB DRGS HLNV LU GSV DLIP YVRMT WLMV RM
XOZHHRXH, GSV ZN HGZUU SZW MLG IVZORAVW GSZG Z OZITV MFNYVI LU GSV
KILQVXGH GSZG RMELOEV VOVXGILMRX GVCGH DVIV YVRMT WLMV YB KVLKOV DRGS Z
KILULFMW RMGVIVHG RM OZMTFZTV ZMW ORMTFRHGRXH.  GSVRI HVZIXS HGIZGVTRVH
ZMW GSRMPRMT ZIV LIRVMGVW GL GSLHV URVOWH, ZH RH HSLDM RM KZIGRXFOZI YB
GSV KVIHVFH VCZNKOV.  ZH ZNZGVFI SRHGLIRZMH, GSV ZN HGZUU DVIV GSRMPRMT
NLIV LU HVZIXSRMT ULI XLMXVKGH ZMW RWVZH GSZM ULI KZIGRXFOZI DLIWH.
LYERLFHOB, UOVRHXSSZFVI XLMXVWVW, HVZIXSRMT ULI XLMXVKGH ZMW RWVZH ZMW
HVZIXSRMT ULI DLIWH NZB YV GDL IZGSVI XOLHVOB IVOZGVW GSRMTH.

DSROV WRHKOZBRMT HVEVIZO RNZTVH, UOVRHXSSZFVI LYHVIEVW GSZG GSV NZXRMGLHS
KILGLGBKV YFROG YB ZN XLMGZRMH Z TIVZGVI WREVIHRGB LU ULINZGH.  VXSLRMT Z
KIVERLFH HKVZPVI, SV HZRW GSZG RG DZH VZHRVI GL HGRGXS GSRMTH GLTVGSVI RM
GSV NZXRMGLHS, GSLFTS RG GVMWVW GL YV Z ORGGOV NLIV ZMVNRX RM HVZIXS ZMW
IVGIRVEZO.  ZN, GSVIVULIV, RMXIVZHRMTOB SZH YVVM RMEVHGRTZGRMT
HLKSRHGRXZGVW IVGIRVEZO VMTRMVH RM GSV RYN ULINZG.

UOVRHXSSZFVI WVNLMHGIZGVW HVEVIZO ZWWRGRLMZO VCZNKOVH LU GSV KILGLGBKV
RMGVIUZXVH:  LMV DZH ZN'H NVGZKSLI ULI GSV MVGDLIP UFGFIV, RM DSRXS Z
PRMW LU IVZWRMT-ILLN TIZKSRX HFTTVHGH SLD LMV DLFOW YV ZYOV GL TL ZILFMW
GL WRUUVIVMG NZGVIRZOH.  ZN XLMGZRMH Z OZITV MFNYVI LU KSLGLTIZKSH RM
ZMZOLT ERWVL ULIN DLIPVW FK UILN Z ERWVLWRHX, DSRXS VMZYOV FHVIH GL NZPV
XLKRVH GL KIRMG LI RMXLIKLIZGV RM WRTRGZO WLXFNVMGH.  Z UIZNV-TIZYYVI RH
YFROG RMGL GSV HBHGVN, NZPRMT RG KLHHRYOV GL YIRMT ZM RNZTV RMGL Z DRMWLD
ZMW WRTRGRAV LI KIRMG RG LFG.

UOVRHXSSZFVI MVCG WVNLMHGIZGVW HLFMW IVXLIWRMT, DSRXS RMXOFWVW GVCGH.
IVXBXOVW UILN Z KIVERLFH KILQVXG, GSV XLOOVXGRLM RMXOFWVW HRCGB 78-IKN
KSLMLTIZKS IVXLIWH LU KLORGRXZO HKVVXSVH GSZG DVIV NZWV WFIRMT ZMW
RNNVWRZGVOB ZUGVI DLIOW DZI R.  GSVHV XLMHGRGFGVW ZKKILCRNZGVOB GSIVV
SLFIH LU ZFWRL, ZH ZN SZH WRTRGRAVW RG, DSRXS LXXFKB 150 NVTZYBGVH LM Z
XW.  GSFH, GSVB ZIV XLMHRWVIZYOB XLNKIVHHVW.  UILN GSV XZGZOLTFV XZIW,
UOVRHXSSZFVI KILXVVWVW GL Z GIZMHXIRKG LU Z HKVVXS DRGS GSV ZFWRL
ZEZROZYOV ZMW DRGS SRTSORTSGVW GVCG ULOOLDRMT RG ZH RG KOZBVW.
Z KSLGLTIZKS SZH YVVM ZWWVW ZMW Z GIZMHXIRKGRLM NZWV.

XLMHRWVIZYOV EZOFV SZH YVVM ZWWVW YVBLMW DSZG GSV ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH
MLINZOOB DLFOW WL RM XZGZOLTFRMT Z HLFMW IVXLIWRMT, DSRXS IZRHVH HVEVIZO
JFVHGRLMH ULI ZN XLMXVIMRMT DSVIV GL WIZD ORMVH ZYLFG SLD NFXS EZOFV RG XZM
ZUULIW GL ZWW ZMW ZG DSZG KLRMG, KVISZKH, GSRH YVXLNVH NLIV GSZM ZN XLFOW
IVZHLMZYOB WL LI IVZHLMZYOB DRHS GL WL.  UOVRHXSSZFVI ZOHL WVNLMHGIZGVW
Z NLGRLM KRXGFIV.  ZH UIVVNZM SZW IVKLIGVW VZIORVI, GSV NLGRLM KRXGFIV
NZGVIRZOH SZEV KILEVW GSV NLHG KLKFOZI, MLG HFIKIRHRMTOB.  GSRH HZBH NLIV
ZYLFG GSV NVWRFN, SV GSLFTSG, GSZM ZYLFG ZN'H KIVHVMGZGRLM LU RG.

YVXZFHV ZN'H TLZO DZH GL YIRMT GLTVGSVI GSRMTH GSZG XLFOW YV FHVW YB
SRHGLIRZMH LI YB KVLKOV DSL DVIV XFIRLFH ZYLFG SRHGLIB,
GFIM-LU-GSV-XVMGFIB ULLGZTV HVVNVW GL IVKIVHVMG GSV NLHG ZKKILKIRZGV
XLOOVXGRLMH UILN GSV ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH RM NLGRLM KRXGFIVH. GSVHV DVIV
GSV EVIB URIHG URONH NZWV YB GSLNZH VWRHLM'H XLNKZMB ZMW HLNV LGSVIH ZG
GSZG GRNV.  GSV KZIGRXFOZI VCZNKOV ROOFHGIZGVW DZH Z YRLTIZKS URON,
YILFTSG RM DRGS Z UIZNV-TIZYYVI RMGL Z DRMWLD.  Z HRMTOV ERWVLWRHX
XLMGZRMH ZYLFG URUGB GRGOVH ZMW KRVXVH LU URON UILN GSZG KVIRLW, ZOO LU
MVD BLIP XRGB.  GZPVM GLTVGSVI, ZN YVORVEVH, GSVB KILERWV ZM RMGVIVHGRMT
WLXFNVMGZIB IVHLFIXV.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
WRHXFHHRLM * FHRMT GSV UIZNV-TIZYYVI RM ZN * ELOFNV LU NZGVIRZO KILXVHHVW
ZMW GL YV KILXVHHVW * KFIKLHV LU ZN DRGSRM OX * XZGZOLTFRMT ZMW GSV
MZGFIV LU ZN'H NZGVIRZO * HTNO XLWRMT ZMW GSV JFVHGRLM LU JFZORGB EVIHFH
JFZMGRGB *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

WFIRMT GSV JFVHGRLM-ZMW-ZMHDVI KVIRLW GSZG ULOOLDVW UOVRHXSSZFVI'H
KIVHVMGZGRLM, HVEVIZO XOZIRURXZGRLMH DVIV NZWV.

ZN RH YIRMTRMT RM NLGRLM KRXGFIVH UILN Z ERWVLWRHX.  GSV UIZNV-TIZYYVI
WVERXVH XIVZGV Z DRMWLD LM Z XLNKFGVI HXIVVM, DSRXS KVINRGH FHVIH GL
WRTRGRAV Z HRMTOV UIZNV LU GSV NLERV LI LMV LU GSV KSLGLTIZKSH.  RG
KILWFXVH Z XIFWV, ILFTS-ZMW-IVZWB RNZTV GSZG SRTS HXSLLO HGFWVMGH XZM
RMXLIKLIZGV RMGL KZKVIH, ZMW GSZG SZH DLIPVW EVIB MRXVOB RM GSRH DZB.

XLNNVMGRMT LM UOVRHXSSZFVI'H ZHHVIGRLM GSZG ZN DZH OLLPRMT NLIV ZG
HVZIXSRMT RWVZH GSZM DLIWH, NBOLMZH ZITFVW GSZG DRGSLFG DLIWH ZM RWVZ
WLVH MLG VCRHG.  UOVRHXSSZFVI XLMXVWVW GSZG SV LFTSG GL SZEV ZIGRXFOZGVW
SRH KLRMG NLIV XOVZIOB.  NBOLMZH HGZGVW GSZG GSVB DVIV RM UZXG YLGS
GZOPRMT ZYLFG GSV HZNV GSRMT.  YB HVZIXSRMT ULI DLIWH ZMW YB ULIXRMT
KVLKOV GL ULXFH LM GSV DLIW, GSV KVIHVFH KILQVXG UVOG GSZG GSVB DLFOW TVG
GSVN GL GSV RWVZ.  GSV DZB LMV IVERVDH IVHFOGH RH GZROLIVW NLIV GL LMV
PRMW LU FHVI GSZM ZMLGSVI.

XLMXVIMRMT GSV GLGZO ELOFNV LU NZGVIRZO GSZG SZH YVVM KILXVHHVW RM GSRH
DZB, ZN ZG GSRH KLRMG SZH RM IVGIRVEZYOV ULIN HVEVM LI VRTSG XLOOVXGRLMH,
ZOO LU GSVN KSLGLTIZKSRX.  RM GSV NZXRMGLHS VMERILMNVMG, ULI VCZNKOV,
GSVIV KILYZYOB ZIV 35,000-40,000 KSLGLTIZKSH.  GSV HLFMW IVXLIWRMTH
MFNYVI HRCGB RGVNH.  GSV YILZWHRWVH MFNYVI ZYLFG 300 RGVNH.  GSVIV ZIV
500 KLORGRXZO XZIGLLMH RM GSV ULIN LU WIZDRMTH.  GSV NLGRLM KRXGFIVH, ZH
RMWRERWFZO RGVNH, MFNYVI HRCGB GL HVEVMGB.

ZN ZOHL SZH Z NZMFHXIRKG XLOOVXGRLM, GSV ORUV SRHGLIB KLIGRLM LU LMV LU
GSV UVWVIZO KILQVXG HVIRVH, DSRXS DROO XLMGZRM 2,900 RMWRERWFZO
WLXFNVMGH, ZOO URIHG-KVIHLM MZIIZGREVH.  ZN SZH RM KILXVHH ZYLFG 350
ZUIRXZM-ZNVIRXZM KZNKSOVGH, LI ZYLFG 12,000 KIRMGVW KZTVH ULI GSV KVIRLW
1870-1910.  ZOHL RM GSV DLIPH ZIV HLNV 4,000 KZMLIZNRX KSLGLTIZKSH.  ZN
SZH IVXBXOVW Z UZRI ZNLFMG LU GSV DLIP WLMV YB OX'H KIRMGH ZMW
KSLGLTIZKSH WRERHRLM WFIRMT GSV ORYIZIB'H LKGRXZO WRHP KROLG KILQVXG RM
GSV 1980H.  ULI VCZNKOV, Z HKVXRZO WRERHRLM LU OX SZH GLLOVW FK ZMW
GSLFTSG GSILFTS ZOO GSV IZNRURXZGRLMH LU VOVXGILMRX KIVHVMGZGRLM LU
KSLGLTIZKSH.  RMWVVW, GSVB ZIV DSVVORMT GSVN LFG RM TIVZG YZIIVO OLZWH.
GSV KFIKLHV LU ZN DRGSRM GSV ORYIZIB, RG RH SLKVW, RH GL XZGZOBAV HVEVIZO
LU GSV LGSVI HKVXRZO XLOOVXGRLM WRERHRLMH DSRXS SZEV ML KZIGRXFOZI
VCKVIRVMXV DRGS, RM HLNV XZHVH, NRCVW UVVORMTH ZYLFG, ZM ZXGRERGB HFXS ZH
ZN.  NLIVLEVI, RM NZMB XZHVH GSV WRERHRLMH NZB YV XSZIZXGVIRAVW ZH MLG
LMOB OZXPRMT VCKVIRVMXV RM "VOVXGILMRUBRMT" GSRMTH YFG ZOHL RM ZFGLNZGVW
XZGZOLTFRMT.  NZIX XZGZOLTFRMT ZH KIZXGRXVW RM GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH RH
SVZEROB DVRTSGVW GLDZIW GSV WVHXIRKGRLM LU NLMLTIZKS ZMW HVIRZO
NZGVIRZOH, YFG RH NFXS GSRMMVI DSVM LMV VMGVIH GSV DLIOW LU NZMFHXIRKGH
ZMW GSRMTH GSZG ZIV SVOW RM GSV ORYIZIB'H NFHRX XLOOVXGRLM ZMW LGSVI
FMRGH.  RM IVHKLMHV GL Z XLNNVMG YB OVHP, GSZG ZN'H NZGVIRZO RH EVIB
SVZEROB KSLGLTIZKSRX, ZMW RH HL KIRNZIROB YVXZFHV RMWRERWFZO IVXLIWH SZEV
YVVM NZWV ULI VZXS KSLGLTIZKS, UOVRHXSSZFVI LYHVIEVW GSZG ZM RGVN-OVEVO
XZGZOLT IVXLIW VCRHGH, ULI VCZNKOV, ULI VZXS KSLGLTIZKS RM GSV WVGILRG
KFYORHSRMT XLOOVXGRLM LU 25,000 KRXGFIVH.  RM GSV XZHV LU GSV UVWVIZO
DIRGVIH KILQVXG, ULI DSRXS MVZIOB 3,000 WLXFNVMGH VCRHG, IVKIVHVMGRMT
RMULINZGRLM UILN GDVMGB-HRC WRUUVIVMG HGZGVH, ZN DRGS GSV ZHHRHGZMXV LU
PZIVM HGFZIG LU GSV NZMFHXIRKG WRERHRLM DROO ZGGVNKG GL URMW HLNV DZB MLG
LMOB GL SZEV Z XLOOVXGRLM-OVEVO IVXLIW YFG KVISZKH Z NZIX IVXLIW ULI VZXS
HGZGV, DSRXS DROO GSVM HVIEV ZH ZM FNYIVOOZ ULI GSV 100-200 WLXFNVMGH
GSZG XLNV FMWVI RG.  YFG GSZG WIZNZ IVNZRMH GL YV VMZXGVW.  GSV ZN HGZUU
RH XLMHVIEZGREV ZMW XORMTH GL XZGZOLTFRMT, GSLFTS LU XLFIHV ERHRGLIH GLFG
ZIGRURXRZO RMGVOORTVMXV ZMW MVFIZO MVGDLIPH RM Z NZMMVI GSZG HFTTVHGH GSZG
KVISZKH LMV MVVW MLG SZEV XZGZOLTFRMT LI GSZG NFXS LU RG XLFOW YV KFG ZHRWV.

GSV NZGGVI LU HTNO XLWRMT, UOVRHXSSZFVI XLMXVWVW, IVGFIMVW GSV WRHXFHHRLM
GL GSV VZIORVI GIVZGVW JFVHGRLM LU JFZORGB EVIHFH JFZMGRGB RM GSV ORYIZIB
LU XLMTIVHH.  LU XLFIHV, GVCG XLMEVIHRLM XZM YV WLMV DRGS 100-KVIXVMG
ZXXFIZXB, YFG RG NVZMH GSZG DSVM LMV'H SLOWRMTH ZIV ZH EZHG ZH OX'H LMOB
Z GRMB ZNLFMG DROO YV VCKLHVW, DSVIVZH KVINRGGRMT OLDVI OVEVOH LU
ZXXFIZXB XZM OVZW GL VCKLHRMT LI HSZIRMT OZITVI ZNLFMGH, YFG DRGS GSV
JFZORGB XLIIVHKLMWRMTOB RNKZRIVW.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
GDLSRT * Z XLMGIZIB VCKVIRVMXV XLMXVIMRMT VOVXGILMRX LKGRLMH * ELOFNV LU
NZGVIRZO RM GSV DZHSRMTGLM KZKVIH ZMW Z HFTTVHGRLM LU WZERW KZXPZIW *
RNKORXZGRLMH LU KZXPZIW'H HFTTVHGRLM * GIZMHXIRYRMT GSV WLXFNVMGH ULI GSV
XW-ILN * ZXXFIZXB LU GIZMHXIRKGRLMH * GSV XW-ILN VWRGRLM LU GSV ULFMWRMT
UZGSVIH WLXFNVMGH *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

URMWRMT VMXLFIZTVNVMG RM Z XLNNVMG LU NRXSVOHLM'H UILN GSV NLIMRMT
HVHHRLM--GSZG MFNVILFH KVLKOV RM GSV SFNZMRGRVH DVIV XSLLHRMT VOVXGILMRX
LKGRLMH GL WL GSVRI DLIP--WLILGSB GDLSRT, VWRGLI, GSV KZKVIH LU TVLITV
DZHSRMTGLM, LKVMVW SVI ROOFHGIZGVW GZOP YB MLGRMT GSZG SVI VCKVIRVMXV
DRGS ORGVIZIB HXSLOZIH ZMW MFNVILFH KVLKOV RM VWRGRMT DZH XLMGIZIB GL
NRXSVOHLM'H.  GDLSRT VNKSZHRAVW ORGVIZIB HXSLOZIH' XLNKOVGV RTMLIZMXV LU
GSV GVXSMLOLTRXZO LKGRLMH ZEZROZYOV GL GSVN LI GSVRI IVOFXGZMXV LI, RM
HLNV XZHVH, GSVRI WLDMIRTSG SLHGRORGB GLDZIW GSVHV LKGRLMH.

ZUGVI KILERWRMT ZM LEVIERVD LU GSV UREV ULFMWRMT UZGSVIH KILQVXGH
(QVUUVIHLM ZG KIRMXVGLM, UIZMPORM ZG BZOV, QLSM ZWZNH ZG GSV
NZHHZXSFHVGGH SRHGLIRXZO HLXRVGB, ZMW NZWRHLM WLDM GSV SZOO UILN SVI ZG
GSV FMREVIHRGB LU ERITRMRZ), GDLSRT LYHVIEVW GSZG GSV DZHSRMTGLM KZKVIH,
ORPV ZOO LU GSV KILQVXGH, RMXOFWV YLGS HRWVH LU GSV DZHSRMTGLM
XLIIVHKLMWVMXV ZMW WVZO DRGS HLNV 135,000 WLXFNVMGH GL YV KFYORHSVW DRGS
VCGVMHREV ZMMLGZGRLM RM VRTSGB GL VRTSGB-UREV ELOFNVH, Z KILQVXG GSZG
DROO MLG YV XLNKOVGVW FMGRO DVOO RMGL GSV MVCG XVMGFIB.  GSFH, RG DZH
DRGS XLMHRWVIZYOV VMGSFHRZHN HVEVIZO BVZIH ZTL GSZG GSV DZHSRMTGLM KZKVIH
KILQVXG (DKK) TIVVGVW WZERW KZXPZIW'H HFTTVHGRLM GSZG GSV KZKVIH LU GSV
