great benefit of American scholarship, via CD-ROM.

In pragmatic terms, funding from the Packard Foundation would expedite
the transcription of thousands of documents waiting to be put on disk in
the WPP offices.  Further, since the costs of collecting, editing, and
converting the Founding Fathers documents into letterpress editions were
running into the millions of dollars, and the considerable staffs
involved in all of these projects were devoting their careers to
producing the work, the Packard Foundation's suggestion had a
revolutionary aspect:  Transcriptions of the entire corpus of the
Founding Fathers papers would be available on CD-ROM to public and
college libraries, even high schools, at a fraction of the cost--
$100-$150 for the annual license fee--to produce a limited university
press run of 1,000 of each volume of the published papers at $45-$150 per
printed volume.  Given the current budget crunch in educational systems
and the corresponding constraints on librarians in smaller institutions
who wish to add these volumes to their collections, producing the
documents on CD-ROM would likely open a greatly expanded audience for the
papers.  TWOHIG stressed, however, that development of the Founding
Fathers CD-ROM is still in its infancy.  Serious software problems remain
to be resolved before the material can be put into readable form.

Funding from the Packard Foundation resulted in a major push to
transcribe the 75,000 or so documents of the Washington papers remaining
to be transcribed onto computer disks.  Slides illustrated several of the
problems encountered, for example, the present inability of CD-ROM to
indicate the cross-outs (deleted material) in eighteenth century
documents.  TWOHIG next described documents from various periods in the
eighteenth century that have been transcribed in chronological order and
delivered to the Packard offices in California, where they are converted
to the CD-ROM, a process that is expected to consume five years to
complete (that is, reckoning from David Packard's suggestion made several
years ago, until about July 1994).  TWOHIG found an encouraging
indication of the project's benefits in the ongoing use made by scholars
of the search functions of the CD-ROM, particularly in reducing the time
spent in manually turning the pages of the Washington papers.

TWOHIG next furnished details concerning the accuracy of transcriptions.
For instance, the insertion of thousands of documents on the CD-ROM
currently does not permit each document to be verified against the
original manuscript several times as in the case of documents that appear
in the published edition.  However, the transcriptions receive a cursory
check for obvious typos, the misspellings of proper names, and other
errors from the WPP CD-ROM editor.  Eventually, all documents that appear
in the electronic version will be checked by project editors.  Although
this process has met with opposition from some of the editors on the
grounds that imperfect work may leave their offices, the advantages in
making this material available as a research tool outweigh  fears about the
misspelling of proper names and other relatively minor editorial matters.

Completion of all five Founding Fathers projects (i.e., retrievability
and searchability of all of the documents by proper names, alternate
spellings, or varieties of subjects) will provide one of the richest
sources of this size for the history of the United States in the latter
part of the eighteenth century.  Further, publication on CD-ROM will
allow editors to include even minutiae, such as laundry lists, not
included in the printed volumes.

It seems possible that the extensive annotation provided in the printed
volumes eventually will be added to the CD-ROM edition, pending
negotiations with the publishers of the papers.  At the moment, the
Founding Fathers CD-ROM is accessible only on the IBYCUS, a computer
developed out of the Thesaurus Linguae Graecae project and designed for
the use of classical scholars.  There are perhaps 400 IBYCUS computers in
the country, most of which are in university classics departments.
Ultimately, it is anticipated that the CD-ROM edition of the Founding
Fathers documents will run on any IBM-compatible or Macintosh computer
with a CD-ROM drive.  Numerous changes in the software will also occur
before the project is completed.  (Editor's note: an IBYCUS was
unavailable to demonstrate the CD-ROM.)

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Several additional features of WPP clarified *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Discussion following TWOHIG's presentation served to clarify several
additional features, including (1) that the project's primary
intellectual product consists in the electronic transcription of the
material; (2) that the text transmitted to the CD-ROM people is not
marked up; (3) that cataloging and subject-indexing of the material
remain to be worked out (though at this point material can be retrieved
by name); and (4) that because all the searching is done in the hardware,
the IBYCUS is designed to read a CD-ROM which contains only sequential
text files.  Technically, it then becomes very easy to read the material
off and put it on another device.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
LEBRON * Overview of the history of the joint project between AAAS and
OCLC * Several practices the on-line environment shares with traditional
publishing on hard copy * Several technical and behavioral barriers to
electronic publishing * How AAAS and OCLC arrived at the subject of
clinical trials * Advantages of the electronic format and other features
of OJCCT * An illustrated tour of the journal *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Maria LEBRON, managing editor, The Online Journal of Current Clinical
Trials (OJCCT), presented an illustrated overview of the history of the
joint project between the American Association for the Advancement of
Science (AAAS) and the Online Computer Library Center, Inc. (OCLC).  The
joint venture between AAAS and OCLC owes its beginning to a
reorganization launched by the new chief executive officer at OCLC about
three years ago and combines the strengths of these two disparate
organizations.  In short, OJCCT represents the process of scholarly
publishing on line.

LEBRON next discussed several practices the on-line environment shares
with traditional publishing on hard copy--for example, peer review of
manuscripts--that are highly important in the academic world.  LEBRON
noted in particular the implications of citation counts for tenure
committees and grants committees.  In the traditional hard-copy
environment, citation counts are readily demonstrable, whereas the
on-line environment represents an ethereal medium to most academics.

LEBRON remarked several technical and behavioral barriers to electronic
publishing, for instance, the problems in transmission created by special
characters or by complex graphics and halftones.  In addition, she noted
economic limitations such as the storage costs of maintaining back issues
and market or audience education.

Manuscripts cannot be uploaded to OJCCT, LEBRON explained, because it is
not a bulletin board or E-mail, forms of electronic transmission of
information that have created an ambience clouding people's understanding
of what the journal is attempting to do.  OJCCT, which publishes
peer-reviewed medical articles dealing with the subject of clinical
trials, includes text, tabular material, and graphics, although at this
time it can transmit only line illustrations.

Next, LEBRON described how AAAS and OCLC arrived at the subject of
clinical trials:  It is 1) a highly statistical discipline that 2) does
not require halftones but can satisfy the needs of its audience with line
illustrations and graphic material, and 3) there is a need for the speedy
dissemination of high-quality research results.  Clinical trials are
research activities that involve the administration of a test treatment
to some experimental unit in order to test its usefulness before it is
made available to the general population.  LEBRON proceeded to give
additional information on OJCCT concerning its editor-in-chief, editorial
board, editorial content, and the types of articles it publishes
(including peer-reviewed research reports and reviews), as well as
features shared by other traditional hard-copy journals.

Among the advantages of the electronic format are faster dissemination of
information, including raw data, and the absence of space constraints
because pages do not exist.  (This latter fact creates an interesting
situation when it comes to citations.)  Nor are there any issues.  AAAS's
capacity to download materials directly from the journal to a
subscriber's printer, hard drive, or floppy disk helps ensure highly
accurate transcription.  Other features of OJCCT include on-screen alerts
that allow linkage of subsequently published documents to the original
documents; on-line searching by subject, author, title, etc.; indexing of
every single word that appears in an article; viewing access to an
article by component (abstract, full text, or graphs); numbered
paragraphs to replace page counts; publication in Science every thirty
days of indexing of all articles published in the journal;
typeset-quality screens; and Hypertext links that enable subscribers to
bring up Medline abstracts directly without leaving the journal.

After detailing the two primary ways to gain access to the journal,
through the OCLC network and Compuserv if one desires graphics or through
the Internet if just an ASCII file is desired, LEBRON illustrated the
speedy editorial process and the coding of the document using SGML tags
after it has been accepted for publication.  She also gave an illustrated
tour of the journal, its search-and-retrieval capabilities in particular,
but also including problems associated with scanning in illustrations,
and the importance of on-screen alerts to the medical profession re
retractions or corrections, or more frequently, editorials, letters to
the editors, or follow-up reports.  She closed by inviting the audience
to join AAAS on 1 July, when OJCCT was scheduled to go on-line.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Additional features of OJCCT *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

In the lengthy discussion that followed LEBRON's presentation, these
points emerged:

     * The SGML text can be tailored as users wish.

     * All these articles have a fairly simple document definition.

     * Document-type definitions (DTDs) were developed and given to OJCCT
     for coding.

     * No articles will be removed from the journal.  (Because there are
     no back issues, there are no lost issues either.  Once a subscriber
     logs onto the journal he or she has access not only to the currently
     published materials, but retrospectively to everything that has been
     published in it.  Thus the table of contents grows bigger.  The date
     of publication serves to distinguish between currently published
     materials and older materials.)

     * The pricing system for the journal resembles that for most medical
     journals:  for 1992, $95 for a year, plus telecommunications charges
     (there are no connect time charges);    for 1993, $110 for the
     entire year for single users, though the journal can be put on a
     local area network (LAN).  However, only one person can access the
     journal at a time.  Site licenses may come in the future.

     * AAAS is working closely with colleagues at OCLC to display
     mathematical equations on screen.

     * Without compromising any steps in the editorial process, the
     technology has reduced the time lag between when a manuscript is
     originally submitted and the time it is accepted; the review process
     does not differ greatly from the standard six-to-eight weeks
     employed by many of the hard-copy journals.  The process still
     depends on people.

     * As far as a preservation copy is concerned, articles will be
     maintained on the computer permanently and subscribers, as part of
     their subscription, will receive a microfiche-quality archival copy
     of everything published during that year; in addition, reprints can
     be purchased in much the same way as in a hard-copy environment.
     Hard copies are prepared but are not the primary medium for the
     dissemination of the information.

     * Because OJCCT is not yet on line, it is difficult to know how many
     people would simply browse through the journal on the screen as
     opposed to downloading the whole thing and printing it out; a mix of
     both types of users likely will result.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
PERSONIUS * Developments in technology over the past decade * The CLASS
Project * Advantages for technology and for the CLASS Project *
Developing a network application an underlying assumption of the project
* Details of the scanning process * Print-on-demand copies of books *
Future plans include development of a browsing tool *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Lynne PERSONIUS, assistant director, Cornell Information Technologies for
Scholarly Information Services, Cornell University, first commented on
the tremendous impact that developments in technology over the past ten
years--networking, in particular--have had on the way information is
handled, and how, in her own case, these developments have counterbalanced
Cornell's relative geographical isolation.  Other significant technologies
include scanners, which are much more sophisticated than they were ten years
ago; mass storage and the dramatic savings that result from it in terms of
both space and money relative to twenty or thirty years ago; new and
improved printing technologies, which have greatly affected the distribution
of information; and, of course, digital technologies, whose applicability to
library preservation remains at issue.

Given that context, PERSONIUS described the College Library Access and
Storage System (CLASS) Project, a library preservation project,
primarily, and what has been accomplished.  Directly funded by the
Commission on Preservation and Access and by the Xerox Corporation, which
has provided a significant amount of hardware, the CLASS Project has been
working with a development team at Xerox to develop a software
application tailored to library preservation requirements.  Within
Cornell, participants in the project have been working jointly with both
library and information technologies.  The focus of the project has been
on reformatting and saving books that are in brittle condition.
PERSONIUS showed Workshop participants a brittle book, and described how
such books were the result of developments in papermaking around the
beginning of the Industrial Revolution.  The papermaking process was
changed so that a significant amount of acid was introduced into the
actual paper itself, which deteriorates as it sits on library shelves.

One of the advantages for technology and for the CLASS Project is that
the information in brittle books is mostly out of copyright and thus
offers an opportunity to work with material that requires library
preservation, and to create and work on an infrastructure to save the
material.  Acknowledging the familiarity of those working in preservation
with this information, PERSONIUS noted that several things are being
done:  the primary preservation technology used today is photocopying of
brittle material.  Saving the intellectual content of the material is the
main goal.  With microfilm copy, the intellectual content is preserved on
the assumption that in the future the image can be reformatted in any
other way that then exists.

An underlying assumption of the CLASS Project from the beginning was
that it would develop a network application.  Project staff scan books
at a workstation located in the library, near the brittle material.
An image-server filing system is located at a distance from that
workstation, and a printer is located in another building.  All of the
materials digitized and stored on the image-filing system are cataloged
in the on-line catalogue.  In fact, a record for each of these electronic
books is stored in the RLIN database so that a record exists of what is
in the digital library throughout standard catalogue procedures.  In the
future, researchers working from their own workstations in their offices,
or their networks, will have access--wherever they NRTSG YV--GSILFTS Z
IVJFVHG HVIEVI YVRMT YFROG RMGL GSV MVD WRTRGZO ORYIZIB.  Z HVXLMW
ZHHFNKGRLM RH GSZG GSV KIVUVIIVW NVZMH LU URMWRMT GSV NZGVIRZO DROO YV YB
OLLPRMT GSILFTS Z XZGZOLTFV.  KVIHLMRFH WVHXIRYVW GSV HXZMMRMT KILXVHH,
DSRXS FHVH Z KILGLGBKV HXZMMVI YVRMT WVEVOLKVW YB CVILC ZMW DSRXS HXZMH Z
EVIB SRTS IVHLOFGRLM RNZTV ZG TIVZG HKVVW.  ZMLGSVI HRTMRURXZMG UVZGFIV,
YVXZFHV GSRH RH Z KIVHVIEZGRLM ZKKORXZGRLM, RH GSV KOZXRMT LU GSV KZTVH
GSZG UZOO ZKZIG LMV ULI LMV LM GSV KOZGVM.  LIWRMZIROB, Z HXZMMVI XLFOW
YV FHVW DRGS HLNV HLIG LU Z WLXFNVMG UVVWVI, YFG YVXZFHV LU GSRH
ZKKORXZGRLM GSZG RH MLG UVZHRYOV.  UFIGSVI, YVXZFHV XOZHH RH Z
KIVHVIEZGRLM ZKKORXZGRLM, ZUGVI GSV KZKVI IVKOZXVNVMG RH NZWV GSVIV, Z
EVIB XZIVUFO JFZORGB XLMGILO XSVXP RH KVIULINVW.  ZM LIRTRMZO YLLP RH
XLNKZIVW GL GSV KIRMGVW XLKB ZMW EVIRURXZGRLM RH NZWV, YVULIV KILXVVWRMT,
GSZG ZOO LU GSV RNZTV, ZOO LU GSV RMULINZGRLM, SZH YVVM XZKGFIVW.  GSVM,
Z MVD ORYIZIB YLLP RH KILWFXVW:  GSV KIRMGVW RNZTVH ZIV IVYLFMW YB Z
XLNNVIXRZO YRMWVI ZMW Z MVD YLLP RH IVGFIMVW GL GSV HSVOU.
HRTMRURXZMGOB, GSV YLLPH IVGFIMVW GL GSV ORYIZIB HSVOEVH ZIV YVZFGRUFO
ZMW FHVUFO IVKOZXVNVMGH LM ZXRW-UIVV KZKVI GSZG HSLFOW OZHG Z OLMT GRNV,
RM VUUVXG, GSV VJFREZOVMG LU KIVHVIEZGRLM KSLGLXLKRVH.  GSFH, GSV KILQVXG
SZH Z ORYIZIB LU WRTRGZO YLLPH.  RM VHHVMXV, XOZHH RH HXZMMRMT ZMW
HGLIRMT YLLPH ZH 600 WLG-KVI-RMXS YRG-NZKKVW RNZTVH, XLNKIVHHVW FHRMT
TILFK 4 XXRGG (R.V., GSV UIVMXS ZXILMBN ULI RMGVIMZGRLMZO XLMHFOGZGREV
XLNNRGGVV ULI GVOVTIZKS ZMW GVOVKSLMV) XLNKIVHHRLM.  GSVB ZIV HGLIVW ZH
GRUU UROVH LM ZM LKGRXZO URORMT HBHGVN GSZG RH XLNKLHVW LU Z WZGZYZHV
FHVW ULI HVZIXSRMT ZMW OLXZGRMT GSV YLLPH ZMW ZM LKGRXZO QFPVYLC GSZG
HGLIVH 64 GDVOEV-RMXS KOZGGVIH.  Z EVIB-SRTS-IVHLOFGRLM KIRMGVW XLKB LU
GSVHV YLLPH ZG 600 WLGH KVI RMXS RH XIVZGVW, FHRMT Z CVILC WLXFGVXS
KIRMGVI GL NZPV GSV KZKVI IVKOZXVNVMGH LM ZXRW-UIVV KZKVI.

KVIHLMRFH NZRMGZRMVW GSZG GSV XOZHH KILQVXG KIVHVMGH ZM LKKLIGFMRGB GL
RMGILWFXV KVLKOV GL YLLPH ZH WRTRGZO RNZTVH YB FHRMT Z KZKVI NVWRFN.
YLLPH ZIV IVGFIMVW GL GSV HSVOEVH DSROV KVLKOV ZIV ZOHL TREVM GSV ZYRORGB
GL KIRMG LM WVNZMW--GL NZPV GSVRI LDM XLKRVH LU YLLPH.  (KVIHLMRFH
WRHGIRYFGVW XLKRVH LU ZM VMTRMVVIRMT QLFIMZO KFYORHSVW YB VMTRMVVIRMT
HGFWVMGH ZG XLIMVOO ZILFMW 1900 ZH ZM VCZNKOV LU DSZG Z KIRMG-LM-WVNZMW
XLKB LU NZGVIRZO NRTSG YV ORPV.  GSRH EVIB XSVZK XLKB DLFOW YV ZEZROZYOV
GL KVLKOV GL FHV ULI GSVRI LDM IVHVZIXS KFIKLHVH ZMW DLFOW YIRWTV GSV TZK
YVGDVVM ZM VOVXGILMRX DLIP ZMW GSV KZKVI GSZG IVZWVIH ORPV GL SZEV.)
KVIHLMRFH GSVM ZGGVNKGVW GL ROOFHGIZGV Z EVIB VZIOB KILGLGBKV LU
MVGDLIPVW ZXXVHH GL GSRH WRTRGZO ORYIZIB.  CVILC XLIKLIZGRLM SZH
WVEVOLKVW Z KILGLGBKV LU Z ERVD HGZGRLM GSZG XZM HVMW RNZTVH ZXILHH GSV
MVGDLIP GL YV ERVDVW.

GSV KZIGRXFOZI ORYIZIB YILFTSG WLDM ULI WVNLMHGIZGRLM XLMGZRMVW GDL
NZGSVNZGRXH YLLPH.  XOZHH RH WVEVOLKRMT ZMW DROO HKVMW GSV MVCG BVZI
WVEVOLKRMT ZM ZKKORXZGRLM GSZG ZOOLDH KVLKOV ZG DLIPHGZGRLMH GL YILDHV
GSV YLLPH.  GSFH, XOZHH RH WVEVOLKRMT Z YILDHRMT GLLO, LM GSV ZHHFNKGRLM
GSZG FHVIH WL MLG DZMG GL IVZW ZM VMGRIV YLLP UILN Z DLIPHGZGRLM, YFG
DLFOW KIVUVI GL YV ZYOV GL OLLP GSILFTS ZMW WVXRWV RU GSVB DLFOW ORPV GL
SZEV Z KIRMGVW XLKB LU RG.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
WRHXFHHRLM * IV IVGIRVEZO HLUGDZIV * "WRTRGZO UROV XLKBIRTSG" * HXZMMRMT
IZGV WFIRMT KILWFXGRLM * ZFGLHVTNVMGZGRLM * XIRGVIRZ VNKOLBVW RM
HVOVXGRMT YLLPH ULI HXZMMRMT * XLNKIVHHRLM ZMW WVXLNKIVHHRLM LU RNZTVH *
LXI MLG KIVXOFWVW *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

WFIRMT GSV JFVHGRLM-ZMW-ZMHDVI KVIRLW GSZG ULOOLDVW SVI KIVHVMGZGRLM,
KVIHLMRFH NZWV GSVHV ZWWRGRLMZO KLRMGH:

     * IV IVGIRVEZO HLUGDZIV, XLIMVOO RH WVEVOLKRMT Z FMRC-YZHVW HVIEVI
     ZH DVOO ZH XORVMGH ULI GSV HVIEVI GSZG HFKKLIG NFOGRKOV KOZGULINH
     (NZXRMGLHS, RYN ZMW HFM DLIPHGZGRLMH), RM GSV SLKV GSZG KVLKOV UILN
     ZMB LU GSLHV KOZGULINH DROO IVGIRVEV YLLPH; Z UFIGSVI LKVIZGRMT
     ZHHFNKGRLM RH GSZG HGZMWZIW RMGVIUZXVH DROO YV FHVW ZH NFXS ZH
     KLHHRYOV, DSVIV HGZMWZIWH XZM YV KFG RM KOZXV, YVXZFHV XOZHH
     XLMHRWVIH GSRH IVGIRVEZO HLUGDZIV Z ORYIZIB ZKKORXZGRLM ZMW DLFOW
     ORPV GL YV ZYOV GL OLLP ZG NZGVIRZO MLG LMOB ZG XLIMVOO YFG ZG LGSVI
     RMHGRGFGRLMH.

     * GSV KSIZHV "WRTRGZO UROV XLKBIRTSG YB XLIMVOO FMREVIHRGB" DZH
     ZWWVW ZG GSV ZWERXV LU XLIMVOO'H OVTZO HGZUU DRGS GSV XZEVZG GSZG RG
     KILYZYOB DLFOW MLG SLOW FK RM XLFIG.  XLIMVOO WLVH MLG DZMG KVLKOV
     GL XLKB RGH YLLPH ZMW HVOO GSVN YFG DLFOW ORPV GL PVVK GSVN
     ZEZROZYOV ULI FHV RM Z ORYIZIB VMERILMNVMG ULI ORYIZIB KFIKLHVH.

     * RM KILWFXGRLM GSV HXZMMVI XZM HXZM ZYLFG 300 KZTVH KVI SLFI,
     XZKGFIRMT 600 WLGH KVI RMXS.

     * GSV CVILC HLUGDZIV SZH UROGVIH GL HXZM SZOUGLMV NZGVIRZO ZMW ZELRW
     GSV NLRIV KZGGVIMH GSZG LXXFI DSVM SZOUGLMV NZGVIRZO RH HXZMMVW.
     CVILC SZH YVVM DLIPRMT LM SZIWDZIV ZMW HLUGDZIV GSZG DLFOW VMZYOV
     GSV HXZMMVI RGHVOU GL IVXLTMRAV GSRH HRGFZGRLM ZMW WVZO DRGS RG
     ZKKILKIRZGVOB--Z PRMW LU ZFGLHVTNVMGZGRLM GSZG DLFOW VMZYOV GSV
     HXZMMVI GL SZMWOV SZOUGLMV NZGVIRZO ZH DVOO ZH GVCG LM Z HRMTOV KZTV.

     * GSV YLLPH HFYQVXGVW GL GSV VOZYLIZGV KILXVHH WVHXIRYVW ZYLEV DVIV
     HVOVXGVW YVXZFHV XOZHH RH Z KIVHVIEZGRLM KILQVXG, DRGS GSV URIHG 500
     YLLPH HVOVXGVW XLNRMT UILN XLIMVOO'H NZGSVNZGRXH XLOOVXGRLM, YVXZFHV
     GSVB DVIV HGROO YVRMT SVZEROB FHVW ZMW YVXZFHV, ZOGSLFTS GSVB DVIV
     RM MVVW LU KIVHVIEZGRLM, GSV NZGSVNZGRXH ORYIZIB ZMW GSV NZGSVNZGRXH
     UZXFOGB DVIV FMXLNULIGZYOV SZERMT GSVN NRXILURONVW.  (GSVB DZMGVW Z
     KIRMGVW XLKB.)  GSFH, GSVHV YLLPH YVXZNV Z OLTRXZO XSLRXV ULI GSRH
     KILQVXG.  LGSVI YLLPH DVIV XSLHVM YB GSV KILQVXG'H HVOVXGRLM XLNNRGGVVH
     ULI VCKVIRNVMGH DRGS GSV GVXSMLOLTB, ZH DVOO ZH GL NVVG Z WVNZMW LI MVVW.

     * RNZTVH DROO YV WVXLNKIVHHVW YVULIV GSVB ZIV HVMG LEVI GSV ORMV; ZG
     GSRH GRNV GSVB ZIV XLNKIVHHVW ZMW HVMG GL GSV RNZTV URORMT HBHGVN
     ZMW GSVM HVMG GL GSV KIRMGVI ZH XLNKIVHHVW RNZTVH; GSVB ZIV IVGFIMVW
     GL GSV DLIPHGZGRLM ZH XLNKIVHHVW 600-WKR RNZTVH ZMW GSV DLIPHGZGRLM
     WVXLNKIVHHVH ZMW HXZOVH GSVN ULI WRHKOZB--ZM RMVUURXRVMG DZB GL
     ZXXVHH GSV NZGVIRZO GSLFTS RG DLIPH JFRGV DVOO ULI KIRMGRMT ZMW
     LGSVI KFIKLHVH.

     * XOZHH RH ZOHL WVXLNKIVHHRMT LM NZXRMGLHS ZMW RYN, Z HOLD KILXVHH
     IRTSG MLD.  VEVMGFZOOB, XLNKIVHHRLM ZMW WVXLNKIVHHRLM DROO GZPV
     KOZXV LM ZM RNZTV XLMEVIHRLM HVIEVI.  GIZWV-LUUH DROO YV NZWV, YZHVW
     LM UFGFIV KVIULINZMXV GVHGRMT, XLMXVIMRMT DSVIV GSV UROV RH
     XLNKIVHHVW ZMW DSZG IVHLOFGRLM RNZTV RH HVMG.

     * LXI SZH MLG YVVM KIVXOFWVW; RNZTVH ZIV YVRMT HGLIVW GSZG SZEV YVVM
     HXZMMVW ZG Z SRTS IVHLOFGRLM, DSRXS KIVHFNZYOB DLFOW HFRG GSVN DVOO
     GL ZM LXI KILXVHH.  YVXZFHV GSV NZGVIRZO YVRMT HXZMMVW RH ZYLFG 100
     BVZIH LOW ZMW DZH KIRMGVW DRGS OVHH-GSZM-RWVZO GVXSMLOLTRVH, EVIB
     VZIOB ZMW KIVORNRMZIB GVHGH SZEV MLG KILWFXVW TLLW IVHFOGH.  YFG GSV
     KILQVXG RH XZKGFIRMT ZM RNZTV GSZG RH LU HFUURXRVMG IVHLOFGRLM GL YV
     HFYQVXGVW GL LXI RM GSV UFGFIV.  NLIVLEVI, GSV HBHGVN ZIXSRGVXGFIV
     ZMW GSV HBHGVN KOZM SZEV Z OLTRXZO KOZXV GL HGLIV ZM LXI RNZTV RU RG
     SZH YVVM XZKGFIVW.  YFG GSZG RH MLG YVRMT WLMV MLD.

                                 ******

HVHHRLM RRR.  WRHGIRYFGRLM, MVGDLIPH, ZMW MVGDLIPRMT:  LKGRLMH ULI
WRHHVNRMZGRLM

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
ARXS * RHHFVH KVIGZRMRMT GL XW-ILNH * LKGRLMH ULI KFYORHSRMT RM XW-ILN *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

ILYVIG ARXS, HKVXRZO ZHHRHGZMG GL GSV ZHHLXRZGV ORYIZIRZM ULI HKVXRZO
KILQVXGH, ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH, ZMW NLWVIZGLI LU GSRH HVHHRLM, URIHG MLGVW
GSV YOVHHVW YFG HLNVDSZG ZDPDZIW XRIXFNHGZMXV LU SZERMT ULFI EVIB
WRHGRMTFRHSVW KVLKOV IVKIVHVMGRMT MVGDLIPH ZMW MVGDLIPRMT LI ZG OVZHG
OVZMRMT RM GSZG WRIVXGRLM, DSROV OZXPRMT ZMBLMV GL HKVZP UILN GSV
HGILMTVHG KLHHRYOV YZXPTILFMW RM XW-ILNH.  ARXS VCKIVHHVW GSV SLKV GSZG
NVNYVIH LU GSV ZFWRVMXV DLFOW QLRM GSV WRHXFHHRLM.  SV HGIVHHVW GSV
HFYGRGOV LU GSRH KZIGRXFOZI HVHHRLM, "LKGRLMH ULI WRHHVNRMZGRLM," ZMW,
XLMXVIMRMT XW-ILNH, GSV RNKLIGZMXV LU WVGVINRMRMT DSVM RG DLFOW YV DRHV
GL XLMHRWVI WRHHVNRMZGRLM RM XW-ILN EVIHFH MVGDLIPH.  Z HSLKKRMT ORHG LU
RHHFVH KVIGZRMRMT GL XW-ILNH RMXOFWVW:  GSV TILFMWH ULI HVOVXGRMT
XLNNVIXRZO KFYORHSVIH, ZMW RM-SLFHV KFYORXZGRLM DSVIV KLHHRYOV EVIHFH
MLMKILURG LI TLEVIMNVMG KFYORXZGRLM.  Z HRNROZI ORHG ULI MVGDLIPH
RMXOFWVW:  WVGVINRMRMT DSVM LMV HSLFOW XLMHRWVI WRHHVNRMZGRLM GSILFTS Z
MVGDLIP, RWVMGRUBRMT GSV NVXSZMRHNH LI VMGRGRVH GSZG VCRHG GL KOZXV RGVNH
LM MVGDLIPH, RWVMGRUBRMT GSV KLLO LU VCRHGRMT MVGDLIPH, WVGVINRMRMT SLD Z
KILWFXVI  DLFOW XSLLHV YVGDVVM MVGDLIPH, ZMW RWVMGRUBRMT GSV VOVNVMGH LU
Z YFHRMVHH ZIIZMTVNVMG RM Z MVGDLIP.

LKGRLMH ULI KFYORHSRMT RM XW-ILN:  ZM LFGHRWV KFYORHSVI EVIHFH
HVOU-KFYORXZGRLM.  RU ZM LFGHRWV KFYORHSVI RH FHVW, RG XZM YV MLMKILURG,
HFXS ZH GSV TLEVIMNVMG KIRMGRMT LUURXV (TKL) LI GSV MZGRLMZO GVXSMRXZO
RMULINZGRLM HVIERXV (MGRH), RM GSV XZHV LU TLEVIMNVMG.  GSV KILH ZMW XLMH
ZHHLXRZGVW DRGS VNKOLBRMT ZM LFGHRWV KFYORHSVI ZIV LYERLFH.  ZNLMT GSV
KILH, GSVIV RH ML GILFYOV TVGGRMT ZXXVKGVW.  LMV KZBH GSV YROO ZMW, RM
VUUVXG, TLVH LMV'H DZB.  ZNLMT GSV XLMH, DSVM LMV KZBH ZM LFGHRWV
KFYORHSVI GL KVIULIN GSV DLIP, GSZG KFYORHSVI DROO KVIULIN GSV DLIP RG RH
LYORTVW GL WL, YFG KVISZKH DRGSLFG GSV KILWFXGRLM VCKVIGRHV ZMW HPROO RM
NZIPVGRMT ZMW WRHHVNRMZGRLM GSZG HLNV DLFOW HVVP.  GSVIV RH GSV YLWB LU
XLNNVIXRZO KFYORHSVIH GSZG WL KLHHVHH GSZG PRMW LU VCKVIGRHV RM
WRHGIRYFGRLM ZMW NZIPVGRMT YFG GSZG LYERLFHOB ZIV HVOVXGREV.  RM
HVOU-KFYORXZGRLM, LMV VCVIXRHVH UFOO XLMGILO, YFG GSVM LMV NFHG SZMWOV
NZGGVIH HFXS ZH WRHGIRYFGRLM ZMW NZIPVGRMT.  HFXS ZIV HLNV LU GSV LKGRLMH
ULI KFYORHSRMT RM GSV XZHV LU XW-ILN.

RM GSV XZHV LU GVXSMRXZO ZMW WVHRTM RHHFVH, DSRXS ZIV ZOHL RNKLIGZMG,
GSVIV ZIV NZMB NZGGVIH DSRXS NZMB ZG GSV DLIPHSLK ZOIVZWB PMVD Z TLLW
WVZO ZYLFG:  IVGIRVEZO HBHGVN IVJFRIVNVMGH ZMW XLHGH, DSZG GL WL ZYLFG
RNZTVH, GSV EZIRLFH XZKZYRORGRVH ZMW KOZGULINH, GSV GIZWV-LUUH YVGDVVM
XLHG ZMW KVIULINZMXV, XLMXVIMH ZYLFG OLXZO-ZIVZ MVGDLIPZYRORGB,
RMGVILKVIZYRORGB, VGX.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
OBMXS * XIVZGRMT MVGDLIPVW RMULINZGRLM RH WRUUVIVMG UILN FHRMT MVGDLIPH
ZH ZM ZXXVHH LI WRHHVNRMZGRLM EVSRXOV * MVGDLIPVW NFOGRNVWRZ LM Z OZITV
HXZOV WLVH MLG BVG DLIP * GBKRXZO XW-ILN KFYORXZGRLM NLWVO Z GDL-VWTVW
HDLIW * KFYORHSRMT RMULINZGRLM LM Z XW-ILN RM GSV KIVHVMG DLIOW LU
RNNZGFIV HGZMWZIWH * XLMGIZHG YVGDVVM XW-ILN ZMW MVGDLIP KIRXRMT *
VCZNKOVH WVNLMHGIZGVW VZIORVI RM GSV WZB ZH Z HVG LU RMHFOZI RMULINZGRLM
TVNH * KZIZNLFMG MVVW GL ORMP WZGZYZHVH * OZBVIRMT GL YVXLNV RMXIVZHRMTOB
MVXVHHZIB * KILQVXG MVVWH ZMW GSV RHHFVH LU RMULINZGRLM IVFHV ZMW ZXGREV
EVIHFH KZHHREV FHV * C-DRMWLDH ZH Z DZB LU WRUUVIVMGRZGRMT YVGDVVM
MVGDLIP ZXXVHH ZMW MVGDLIPVW RMULINZGRLM * YZIIRVIH GL GSV WRHGIRYFGRLM
LU MVGDLIPVW NFOGRNVWRZ RMULINZGRLM * MVVW ULI TLLW, IVZO-GRNV WVOREVIB
KILGLXLOH * GSV JFVHGRLM LU KIVHVMGZGRLM RMGVTIRGB RM XORVMG-HVIEVI
XLNKFGRMT RM GSV ZXZWVNRX DLIOW * IVXLNNVMWZGRLMH ULI KILWFXRMT NFOGRNVWRZ
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

XORUULIW OBMXS, WRIVXGLI, ORYIZIB ZFGLNZGRLM, FMREVIHRGB LU XZORULIMRZ,
LKVMVW SRH GZOP DRGS GSV TVMVIZO LYHVIEZGRLM GSZG MVGDLIPVW RMULINZGRLM
XLMHGRGFGVW Z WRUURXFOG ZMW VOFHREV GLKRX YVXZFHV RG RH HLNVGSRMT QFHG
HGZIGRMT GL WVEVOLK ZMW MLG BVG UFOOB FMWVIHGLLW.  OBMXS XLMGVMWVW GSZG
XIVZGRMT TVMFRMVOB MVGDLIPVW RMULINZGRLM DZH WRUUVIVMG UILN FHRMT
MVGDLIPH ZH ZM ZXXVHH LI WRHHVNRMZGRLM EVSRXOV ZMW DZH NLIV HLKSRHGRXZGVW
ZMW NLIV HFYGOV.  SV RMERGVW GSV NVNYVIH LU GSV ZFWRVMXV GL VCGIZKLOZGV,
UILN DSZG GSVB SVZIW ZYLFG GSV KIVXVWRMT WVNLMHGIZGRLM KILQVXGH, GL DSZG
HLIG LU Z DLIOW LU VOVXGILMRXH RMULINZGRLM--HXSLOZIOB, ZIXSREZO,
XFOGFIZO, VGX.--GSVB DRHSVW GL VMW FK DRGS GVM LI URUGVVM BVZIH UILN MLD.
OBMXS HFTTVHGVW GSZG GL VCGIZKLOZGV WRIVXGOB UILN GSVHV KILQVXGH DLFOW
KILWFXV FMKOVZHZMG IVHFOGH.

KFGGRMT GSV RHHFV LU XW-ILN RM KVIHKVXGREV YVULIV TVGGRMT RMGL
TVMVIZORGRVH LM MVGDLIPVW RMULINZGRLM, OBMXS LYHVIEVW GSZG GSLHV VMTZTVW
RM NFOGRNVWRZ GLWZB DSL DRHS GL HSRK Z KILWFXG, HL GL HZB, KILYZYOB WL
MLG SZEV NFXS XSLRXV VCXVKG GL FHV XW-ILN:  MVGDLIPVW NFOGRNVWRZ LM Z
OZITV HXZOV YZHRXZOOB WLVH MLG BVG DLIP YVXZFHV GSV GVXSMLOLTB WLVH MLG
VCRHG.  ULI VCZNKOV, ZMBYLWB DSL SZH GIRVW NLERMT RNZTVH ZILFMW LEVI GSV
RMGVIMVG PMLDH GSZG GSRH RH ZM VCXRGRMT GLFXS-ZMW-TL KILXVHH, Z
UZHXRMZGRMT ZMW UVIGROV ZIVZ ULI VCKVIRNVMGZGRLM, IVHVZIXS, ZMW
WVEVOLKNVMG, YFG MLG HLNVGSRMT GSZG LMV XZM YVXLNV WVVKOB VMGSFHRZHGRX
ZYLFG XLNNRGGRMT GL KILWFXGRLM HBHGVNH ZG GSRH GRNV.

GSRH HRGFZGRLM DROO XSZMTV, OBMXS HZRW.  SV WRUUVIVMGRZGVW XW-ILN UILN
GSV KIZXGRXVH GSZG SZEV YVVM ULOOLDVW FK GL MLD RM WRHGIRYFGRMT WZGZ LM
XW-ILN.  ULI OBMXS GSV KILYOVN DRGS XW-ILN RH MLG RGH KLIGZYRORGB LI RGH
HOLDMVHH YFG GSV GDL-VWTVW HDLIW LU SZERMT GSV IVGIRVEZO ZKKORXZGRLM ZMW
GSV FHVI RMGVIUZXV RMVCGIRXZYOB YLFMW FK DRGS GSV WZGZ, DSRXS RH GSV
GBKRXZO XW-ILN KFYORXZGRLM NLWVO.  RG RH MLG Z XZHV LU KFYORHSRMT WZGZ
YFG LU WRHGIRYFGRMT Z GBKRXZOOB HGZMW-ZOLMV, GBKRXZOOB XOLHVW HBHGVN,
ZOO--HLUGDZIV, FHVI RMGVIUZXV, ZMW WZGZ--LM Z ORGGOV WRHP.  SVMXV, ZOO
GSV YVGDVVM-WRHP MZERTZGRLMZO RHHFVH ZH DVOO ZH GSV RNKLHHRYRORGB RM NLHG
XZHVH LU RMGVTIZGRMT WZGZ LM LMV WRHP DRGS GSZG LM ZMLGSVI.  NLHG XW-ILN
IVGIRVEZO HLUGDZIV WLVH MLG MVGDLIP EVIB TIZXVUFOOB ZG KIVHVMG.  SLDVEVI,
RM GSV KIVHVMG DLIOW LU RNNZGFIV HGZMWZIWH ZMW OZXP LU FMWVIHGZMWRMT LU
DSZG MVGDLIP RMULINZGRLM RH LI DSZG GSV TILFMW IFOVH ZIV ULI XIVZGRMT LI
FHRMT RG, KFYORHSRMT RMULINZGRLM LM Z XW-ILN WLVH ZWW EZOFV RM Z EVIB
IVZO HVMHV.

OBMXS WIVD Z XLMGIZHG YVGDVVM XW-ILN ZMW MVGDLIP KIRXRMT ZMW RM WLRMT HL
SRTSORTSGVW HLNVGSRMT YRAZIIV RM RMULINZGRLM KIRXRMT.  Z OZITV
RMHGRGFGRLM HFXS ZH GSV FMREVIHRGB LU XZORULIMRZ SZH EVMWLIH DSL DROO
LUUVI GL HVOO RMULINZGRLM LM XW-ILN ULI Z KIRXV KVI BVZI RM ULFI WRTRGH,
YFG ULI GSV HZNV WZGZ (V.T., ZM ZYHGIZXGRMT ZMW RMWVCRMT WZGZYZHV) LM
NZTMVGRX GZKV, IVTZIWOVHH LU SLD NZMB KVLKOV NZB FHV RG XLMXFIIVMGOB,
DROO JFLGV Z KIRXV RM HRC WRTRGH.

DSZG RH KZXPZTVW DRGS GSV XW-ILN RM LMV HVMHV ZWWH EZOFV--Z XLNKOVGV
ZXXVHH HBHGVN, MLG QFHG IZD, FMIVURMVW RMULINZGRLM--ZOGSLFTS RG RH MLG
TVMVIZOOB KVIXVREVW GSZG DZB.  GSRH RH YVXZFHV GSV ZXXVHH HLUGDZIV,
ZOGSLFTS RG ZWWH EZOFV, RH ERVDVW YB HLNV KVLKOV, KZIGRXFOZIOB RM GSV
FMREVIHRGB VMERILMNVMG DSVIV GSVIV RH Z EVIB SVZEB XLNNRGNVMG GL
MVGDLIPRMT, ZH YVRMT WVEVOLKVW RM GSV DILMT WRIVXGRLM.

TREVM GSZG XLMGVCG, OBMXS WVHXIRYVW GSV VCZNKOVH WVNLMHGIZGVW ZH Z HVG LU
RMHFOZI RMULINZGRLM TVNH--KVIHVFH, ULI VCZNKOV, LUUVIH MRXVOB ORMPVW
RMULINZGRLM, YFG DLFOW YV EVIB WRUURXFOG GL RMGVTIZGV DRGS LGSVI
WZGZYZHVH, GSZG RH, GL ORMP GLTVGSVI HVZNOVHHOB DRGS LGSVI HLFIXV UROVH
UILN LGSVI HLFIXVH.  RG IVHVNYOVH ZM RHOZMW, ZMW RM GSRH IVHKVXG RH
HRNROZI GL MFNVILFH HGZMW-ZOLMV KILQVXGH GSZG ZIV YZHVW LM ERWVLWRHXH,
GSZG RH, LM GSV HRMTOV-DLIPHGZGRLM XLMXVKG.

ZH HXSLOZIHSRK VELOEVH RM Z MVGDLIP VMERILMNVMG, GSV KZIZNLFMG MVVW DROO
YV GL ORMP WZGZYZHVH.  DV NFHG ORMP KVIHLMZO WZGZYZHVH GL KFYORX
WZGZYZHVH, GL TILFK WZGZYZHVH, RM UZRIOB HVZNOVHH DZBH--DSRXS RH
VCGIVNVOB WRUURXFOG RM GSV VMERILMNVMGH FMWVI WRHXFHHRLM DRGS XLKRVH LU
WZGZYZHVH KILORUVIZGRMT ZOO LEVI GSV KOZXV.

GSV MLGRLM LU OZBVIRMT ZOHL HGIFXP OBMXS ZH OFIPRMT RM HVEVIZO LU GSV
KILQVXGH WVNLMHGIZGVW.  HVEVIZO WZGZYZHVH RM Z HVMHV XLMHGRGFGV
RMULINZGRLM ZIXSREVH DRGSLFG Z HRTMRURXZMG ZNLFMG LU MZERTZGRLM YFROG RM.
VWFXZGLIH, XIRGRXH, ZMW LGSVIH DROO DZMG Z OZBVIVW HGIFXGFIV--LMV GSZG
WVURMVH LI ORMPH KZGSH GSILFTS GSV OZBVIH GL ZOOLD FHVIH GL IVZXS
HKVXRURX KLRMGH.  RM OBMXS'H ERVD, OZBVIRMT DROO YVXLNV RMXIVZHRMTOB
MVXVHHZIB, ZMW MLG QFHG DRGSRM Z HRMTOV IVHLFIXV YFG ZXILHH IVHLFIXVH
(V.T., GIZXRMT NBGSLOLTB ZMW XFOGFIZO GSVNVH ZXILHH HVEVIZO XOZHHRXH
WZGZYZHVH ZH DVOO ZH Z WZGZYZHV LU IVMZRHHZMXV XFOGFIV).  GSRH ZYRORGB GL
LITZMRAV IVHLFIXVH, GL YFROW GSRMTH LFG LU NFOGRKOV LGSVI GSRMTH LM GSV
MVGDLIP LI HVOVXG KRVXVH LU RG, IVKIVHVMGVW ULI OBMXS LMV LU GSV PVB
ZHKVXGH LU MVGDLIP RMULINZGRLM.

XLMGVMWRMT GSZG RMULINZGRLM IVFHV XLMHGRGFGVW ZMLGSVI HRTMRURXZMG RHHFV,
OBMXS XLNNVMWVW GL GSV ZFWRVMXV'H ZGGVMGRLM KILQVXG MVVWH (R.V., MZGRLMZO
VMTRMVVIRMT VWFXZGRLM WVOREVIB HBHGVN).  GSRH KILQVXG'H LYQVXGREV RH GL
KILWFXV Z WZGZYZHV LU VMTRMVVIRMT XLFIHVDZIV ZH DVOO ZH GSV XLNKLMVMGH
GSZG XZM YV FHVW GL WVEVOLK MVD XLFIHVDZIV.  RM Z MFNYVI LU GSV VCRHGRMT
ZKKORXZGRLMH, OBMXS HZRW, GSV RHHFV LU IVFHV (SLD NFXS LMV XZM GZPV ZKZIG
ZMW IVFHV RM LGSVI ZKKORXZGRLMH) DZH MLG YVRMT DVOO XLMHRWVIVW.  SV ZOHL
IZRHVW GSV RHHFV LU ZXGREV EVIHFH KZHHREV FHV, LMV ZHKVXG LU DSRXS  RH
SLD NFXS RMULINZGRLM DROO YV NZMRKFOZGVW OLXZOOB YB FHVIH.  NLHG KVLKOV,
SV ZITFVW, NZB WL Z ORGGOV YILDHRMT ZMW GSVM DROO DRHS GL KIRMG.  OBMXS
DZH FMXVIGZRM SLD GSVHV IVHLFIXVH DLFOW YV FHVW YB GSV EZHG NZQLIRGB LU
FHVIH RM GSV MVGDLIP VMERILMNVMG.

OBMXS MVCG HZRW Z UVD DLIWH ZYLFG C-DRMWLDH ZH Z DZB LU WRUUVIVMGRZGRMT
YVGDVVM MVGDLIP ZXXVHH ZMW MVGDLIPVW RMULINZGRLM.  Z MFNYVI LU GSV
ZKKORXZGRLMH WVNLMHGIZGVW ZG GSV DLIPHSLK XLFOW YV IVDIRGGVM GL FHV C
ZXILHH GSV MVGDLIP, HL GSZG LMV XLFOW IFM GSVN UILN ZMB C-XZKZYOV WVERXV-
-Z DLIPHGZGRLM, ZM C GVINRMZO--ZMW GIZMHZXG DRGS Z WZGZYZHV ZXILHH GSV
MVGDLIP.  ZOGSLFTS GSRH LKVMH FK ZXXVHH Z ORGGOV, ZHHFNRMT LMV SZH VMLFTS
MVGDLIP GL SZMWOV RG, RG WLVH MLG KILERWV ZM RMGVIUZXV GL WVEVOLK Z
KILTIZN GSZG XLMEVMRVMGOB RMGVTIZGVH RMULINZGRLM UILN NFOGRKOV WZGZYZHVH.
C RH Z ERVDRMT GVXSMLOLTB GSZG SZH ORNRGH.  RM Z IVZO HVMHV, RG RH QFHG Z
TIZKSRXZO EVIHRLM LU IVNLGV OLT-RM ZXILHH GSV MVGDLIP.  C-GBKV ZKKORXZGRLMH
IVKIVHVMG LMOB LMV HGVK RM GSV KILTIVHHRLM GLDZIWH IVZO ZXXVHH.

OBMXS MVCG WRHXFHHVW YZIIRVIH GL GSV WRHGIRYFGRLM LU MVGDLIPVW NFOGRNVWRZ
RMULINZGRLM.  GSV SVZIG LU GSV KILYOVN RH Z OZXP LU HGZMWZIWH GL KILERWV
GSV ZYRORGB ULI XLNKFGVIH GL GZOP GL VZXS LGSVI, IVGIRVEV RMULINZGRLM,
ZMW HSFUUOV RG ZILFMW UZRIOB XZHFZOOB.  ZG GSV NLNVMG, ORGGOV KILTIVHH RH
YVRMT NZWV LM HGZMWZIWH ULI MVGDLIPVW RMULINZGRLM; ULI VCZNKOV, KIVHVMG
HGZMWZIWH WL MLG XLEVI RNZTVH, WRTRGZO ELRXV, ZMW WRTRGZO ERWVL.  Z
FHVUFO GLLO PRG LU VCXSZMTV ULINZGH ULI YZHRX GVCGH RH LMOB MLD YVRMT
ZHHVNYOVW.  GSV HBMXSILMRAZGRLM LU XLMGVMG HGIVZNH (R.V., HBMXSILMRARMT Z
ELRXV GIZXP GL Z ERWVL GIZXP, VHGZYORHSRMT GVNKLIZO IVOZGRLMH YVGDVVM
WRUUVIVMG XLNKLMVMGH RM Z NFOGRNVWRZ LYQVXG) XLMHGRGFGVH ZMLGSVI RHHFV
ULI MVGDLIPVW NFOGRNVWRZ GSZG RH QFHG YVTRMMRMT GL IVXVREV ZGGVMGRLM.

FMWVIOBRMT MVGDLIP KILGLXLOH ZOHL MVVW HLNV DLIP; TLLW, IVZO-GRNV
WVOREVIB KILGLXLOH LM GSV RMGVIMVG WL MLG BVG VCRHG.  RM OBMXS'H ERVD,
SRTSOB RNKLIGZMG RM GSRH XLMGVCG RH GSV MLGRLM LU MVGDLIPVW WRTRGZO
LYQVXG RWH, GSV ZYRORGB LU LMV LYQVXG LM GSV MVGDLIP GL KLRMG GL ZMLGSVI
LYQVXG (LI XLNKLMVMG GSVIVLU) LM GSV MVGDLIP.  HVIRLFH YZMWDRWGS RHHFVH
ZOHL VCRHG.  OBMXS DZH FMXVIGZRM RU YROORLM-YRG-KVI-HVXLMW MVGDLIPH DLFOW
KILEV HFUURXRVMG RU MFNVILFH KVLKOV IZM ERWVL RM KZIZOOVO.

OBMXS XLMXOFWVW YB LUUVIRMT ZM RHHFV ULI WZGZYZHV XIVZGLIH GL XLMHRWVI,
ZH DVOO ZH HVEVIZO XLNNVMGH ZYLFG DSZG NRTSG XLMHGRGFGV TLLW GIRZO
NFOGRNVWRZ VCKVIRNVMGH.  RM Z MVGDLIPVW RMULINZGRLM DLIOW GSV WZGZYZHV
YFROWVI LI HVIERXV YFROWVI (KFYORHSVI) WLVH MLG VCVIXRHV GSV HZNV
VCGVMHREV XLMGILO LEVI GSV RMGVTIRGB LU GSV KIVHVMGZGRLM; HGIZMTV
KILTIZNH "NFMTV" DRGS LMV'H WZGZ YVULIV GSV FHVI HVVH RG.  HVIRLFH
GSLFTSG NFHG YV TREVM GL DSZG TFZIZMGVVH RMGVTIRGB LU KIVHVMGZGRLM.  KZIG
LU GSZG RH IVOZGVW GL DSVIV LMV WIZDH GSV YLFMWZIRVH ZILFMW Z MVGDLIPVW
RMULINZGRLM HVIERXV.  GSRH JFVHGRLM LU KIVHVMGZGRLM RMGVTIRGB RM
XORVMG-HVIEVI XLNKFGRMT SZH MLG YVVM HGIVHHVW VMLFTS RM GSV ZXZWVNRX
DLIOW, OBMXS ZITFVW, GSLFTS XLNNVIXRZO HVIERXV KILERWVIH WVZO DRGS RG
IVTFOZIOB.

XLMXVIMRMT NFOGRNVWRZ, OBMXS LYHVIEVW GSZG TLLW NFOGRNVWRZ ZG GSV NLNVMG
RH SRWVLFHOB VCKVMHREV GL KILWFXV.  SV IVXLNNVMWVW KILWFXRMT NFOGRNVWRZ
DRGS VRGSVI EVIB SRTS HZOV EZOFV, LI NFOGRNVWRZ DRGS Z EVIB OLMT ORUV
HKZM, LI NFOGRNVWRZ GSZG DROO SZEV Z EVIB YILZW FHZTV YZHV ZMW DSLHV
XLHGH GSVIVULIV XZM YV ZNLIGRAVW ZNLMT OZITV MFNYVIH LU FHVIH.  RM GSRH
XLMMVXGRLM, SRHGLIRXZO ZMW SFNZMRHGRXZOOB LIRVMGVW NZGVIRZO NZB YV Z TLLW
KOZXV GL HGZIG, YVXZFHV RG GVMWH GL SZEV Z OLMTVI ORUV HKZM GSZM NFXS LU
GSV HXRVMGRURX NZGVIRZO, ZH DVOO ZH Z DRWVI FHVI YZHV.  OBMXS MLGVW, ULI
VCZNKOV, GSZG ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB URGH NZMB LU GSV XIRGVIRZ LFGORMVW.  SV
IVNZIPVW GSV VCGVMHREV WRHXFHHRLM ZYLFG YIRMTRMT GSV RMGVIMVG LI GSV
MZGRLMZO IVHVZIXS ZMW VWFXZGRLM MVGDLIP (MIVM) RMGL GSV P-12 VMERILMNVMG
