
ZIDAR emphasized the importance of de-skewing and filtering as
requirements on NATDP's upgraded system.  For instance, scanning bound
books, particularly books published by the federal government whose pages
are skewed, and trying to scan them straight if OCR is to be performed,
is extremely time-consuming.  The same holds for filtering of
poor-quality or older materials.

ZIDAR described image capture from microform, using as an example three
reels from a sixty-seven-reel set of the papers and letters of George
Washington Carver that had been produced by Tuskegee University.  These
resulted in approximately 3,500 images, which NATDP had had scanned by
its service contractor, Science Applications International Corporation
(SAIC).  NATDP also created bibliographic records for access.  (NATDP did
not have such specialized equipment as a microfilm scanner.

Unfortunately, the process of scanning from microfilm was not an
unqualified success, ZIDAR reported:  because microfilm frame sizes vary,
occasionally some frames were missed, which without spending much time
and money could not be recaptured.

OCR could not be performed from the scanned images of the frames.  The
bleeding in the text simply output text, when OCR was run, that could not
even be edited.  NATDP tested for negative versus positive images,
landscape versus portrait orientation, and single- versus dual-page
microfilm, none of which seemed to affect the quality of the image; but
also on none of them could OCR be performed.

In selecting the microfilm they would use, therefore, NATDP had other
factors in mind.  ZIDAR noted two factors that influenced the quality of
the images:  1) the inherent quality of the original and 2) the amount of
size reduction on the pages.

The Carver papers were selected because they are informative and visually
interesting, treat a single subject, and are valuable in their own right.
The images were scanned and divided into logical records by SAIC, then
delivered, and loaded onto NATDP's system, where bibliographic
information taken directly from the images was added.  Scanning was
completed in summer 1991 and by the end of summer 1992 the disk was
scheduled to be published.

Problems encountered during processing included the following:  Because
the microfilm scanning had to be done in a batch, adjustment for
individual page variations was not possible.  The frame size varied on
account of the nature of the material, and therefore some of the frames
were missed while others were just partial frames.  The only way to go
back and capture this material was to print out the page with the
microfilm reader from the missing frame and then scan it in from the
page, which was extremely time-consuming.  The quality of the images
scanned from the printout of the microfilm compared unfavorably with that
of the original images captured directly from the microfilm.  The
inability to perform OCR also was a major disappointment.  At the time,
computer output microfilm was unavailable to test.

The equipment used for a scanning system was the last topic addressed by
ZIDAR.  The type of equipment that one would purchase for a scanning
system included:  a microcomputer, at least a 386, but preferably a 486;
a large hard disk, 380 megabyte at minimum; a multi-tasking operating
system that allows one to run some things in batch in the background
while scanning or doing text editing, for example, Unix or OS/2 and,
theoretically, Windows; a high-speed scanner and scanning software that
allows one to make the various adjustments mentioned earlier; a
high-resolution monitor (150 dpi ); OCR software and hardware to perform
text recognition; an optical disk subsystem on which to archive all the
images as the processing is done; file management and tracking software.

ZIDAR opined that the software one purchases was more important than the
hardware and might also cost more than the hardware, but it was likely to
prove critical to the success or failure of one's system.  In addition to
a stand-alone scanning workstation for image capture, then, text capture
requires one or two editing stations networked to this scanning station
to perform editing.  Editing the text takes two or three times as long as
capturing the images.

Finally, ZIDAR stressed the importance of buying an open system that allows
for more than one vendor, complies with standards, and can be upgraded.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
WATERS *Yale University Library's master plan to convert microfilm to
digital imagery (POB) * The place of electronic tools in the library of
the future * The uses of images and an image library * Primary input from
preservation microfilm * Features distinguishing POB from CXP and key
hypotheses guiding POB * Use of vendor selection process to facilitate
organizational work * Criteria for selecting vendor * Finalists and
results of process for Yale * Key factor distinguishing vendors *
Components, design principles, and some estimated costs of POB * Role of
preservation materials in developing imaging market * Factors affecting
quality and cost * Factors affecting the usability of complex documents
in image form *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Donald WATERS, head of the Systems Office, Yale University Library,
reported on the progress of a master plan for a project at Yale to
convert microfilm to digital imagery, Project Open Book (POB).  Stating
that POB was in an advanced stage of planning, WATERS detailed, in
particular, the process of selecting a vendor partner and several key
issues under discussion as Yale prepares to move into the project itself.
He commented first on the vision that serves as the context of POB and
then described its purpose and scope.

WATERS sees the library of the future not necessarily as an electronic
library but as a place that generates, preserves, and improves for its
clients ready access to both intellectual and physical recorded
knowledge.  Electronic tools must find a place in the library in the
context of this vision.  Several roles for electronic tools include
serving as:  indirect sources of electronic knowledge or as "finding"
aids (the on-line catalogues, the article-level indices, registers for
documents and archives); direct sources of recorded knowledge; full-text
images; and various kinds of compound sources of recorded knowledge (the
so-called compound documents of Hypertext, mixed text and image,
mixed-text image format, and multimedia).

POB is looking particularly at images and an image library, the uses to
which images will be put (e.g., storage, printing, browsing, and then use
as input for other processes), OCR as a subsequent process to image
capture, or creating an image library, and also possibly generating
microfilm.

While input will come from a variety of sources, POB is considering
especially input from preservation microfilm.  A possible outcome is that
the film and paper which provide the input for the image library
eventually may go off into remote storage, and that the image library may
be the primary access tool.

The purpose and scope of POB focus on imaging.  Though related to CXP,
POB has two features which distinguish it:  1) scale--conversion of
10,000 volumes into digital image form; and 2) source--conversion from
microfilm.  Given these features, several key working hypotheses guide
POB, including:  1) Since POB is using microfilm, it is not concerned with
the image library as a preservation medium.  2) Digital imagery can improve
access to recorded knowledge through printing and network distribution at
a modest incremental cost of microfilm.  3) Capturing and storing documents
in a digital image form is necessary to further improvements in access.
(POB distinguishes between the imaging, digitizing process and OCR,
which at this stage it does not plan to perform.)

Currently in its first or organizational phase, POB found that it could
use a vendor selection process to facilitate a good deal of the
organizational work (e.g., creating a project team and advisory board,
confirming the validity of the plan, establishing the cost of the project
and a budget, selecting the materials to convert, and then raising the
necessary funds).

POB developed numerous selection criteria, including:  a firm committed
to image-document management, the ability to serve as systems integrator
in a large-scale project over several years, interest in developing the
requisite software as a standard rather than a custom product, and a
willingness to invest substantial resources in the project itself.

Two vendors, DEC and Xerox, were selected as finalists in October 1991,
and with the support of the Commission on Preservation and Access, each
was commissioned to generate a detailed requirements analysis for the
project and then to submit a formal proposal for the completion of the
project, which included a budget and costs. The terms were that POB would
pay the loser.  The results for Yale of involving a vendor included:
broad involvement of Yale staff across the board at a relatively low
cost, which may have long-term significance in carrying out the project
(twenty-five to thirty university people are engaged in POB); better
understanding of the factors that affect corporate response to markets
for imaging products; a competitive proposal; and a more sophisticated
view of the imaging markets.

The most important factor that distinguished the vendors under
consideration was their identification with the customer.  The size and
internal complexity of the company also was an important factor.  POB was
looking at large companies that had substantial resources.  In the end,
the process generated for Yale two competitive proposals, with Xerox's
the clear winner.  WATERS then described the components of the proposal,
the design principles, and some of the costs estimated for the process.

Components are essentially four:  a conversion subsystem, a
network-accessible storage subsystem for 10,000 books (and POB expects
200 to 600 dpi storage), browsing stations distributed on the campus
network, and network access to the image printeIH.

ZNLMT GSV WVHRTM KIRMXRKOVH, KLY DZMGVW XLMEVIHRLM ZG GSV SRTSVHG
KLHHRYOV IVHLOFGRLM.  ZHHFNRMT GRUU UROVH, GRUU UROVH DRGS TILFK 4
XLNKIVHHRLM, GXK/RK, ZMW VGSVIMVG MVGDLIP LM XZNKFH, KLY DZMGVW Z
XORVMG-HVIEVI ZKKILZXS DRGS RNZTV WLXFNVMGH WRHGIRYFGVW GL GSV
DLIPHGZGRLMH ZMW NZWV ZXXVHHRYOV GSILFTS MZGREV DLIPHGZGRLM RMGVIUZXVH
HFXS ZH DRMWLDH.  KLY ZOHL RMHRHGVW LM Z KSZHVW ZKKILZXS GL
RNKOVNVMGZGRLM:  1) Z HGZMW-ZOLMV, HRMTOV-FHVI, OLD-XLHG VMGIB RMGL GSV
YFHRMVHH DRGS Z DLIPHGZGRLM ULXFHVW LM XLMEVIHRLM ZMW ZOOLDRMT KLY GL
VCKOLIV FHVI ZXXVHH; 2) NLEVNVMG RMGL Z SRTSVI-ELOFNV XLMEVIHRLM DRGS
MVGDLIP-ZXXVHHRYOV HGLIZTV ZMW NFOGRKOV ZXXVHH HGZGRLMH; ZMW 3) Z
SRTS-ELOFNV XLMEVIHRLM, UFOO-XZKZXRGB HGLIZTV, ZMW NFOGRKOV YILDHRMT
HGZGRLMH WRHGIRYFGVW GSILFTSLFG GSV XZNKFH.

GSV XLHGH KILKLHVW ULI HGZIG-FK ZHHFNVW GSV VCRHGVMXV LU GSV BZOV MVGDLIP
ZMW RGH GDL WLXFGVXS RNZTV KIRMGVIH.  LGSVI HGZIG-FK XLHGH ZIV VHGRNZGVW
ZG $1 NROORLM LEVI GSV GSIVV KSZHVH.  ZG GSV VMW LU GSV KILQVXG, GSV ZMMFZO
LKVIZGRMT XLHGH VHGRNZGVW KIRNZIROB ULI GSV HLUGDZIV ZMW SZIWDZIV KILKLHVW
XLNV GL ZYLFG $60,000, YFG GSVHV VCXOFWV XLHGH ULI OZYLI MVVWVW RM GSV
XLMEVIHRLM KILXVHH, MVGDLIP ZMW KIRMGVI FHZTV, ZMW UZXRORGRVH NZMZTVNVMG.

URMZOOB, GSV HVOVXGRLM KILXVHH KILWFXVW ULI BZOV Z NLIV HLKSRHGRXZGVW
ERVD LU GSV RNZTRMT NZIPVGH:  GSV NZMZTVNVMG LU XLNKOVC WLXFNVMGH RM
RNZTV ULIN RH MLG Z KIVHVIEZGRLM KILYOVN, MLG Z ORYIZIB KILYOVN, YFG Z
TVMVIZO KILYOVN RM Z YILZW, TVMVIZO RMWFHGIB.  KIVHVIEZGRLM NZGVIRZOH ZIV
FHVUFO ULI WVEVOLKRMT GSZG NZIPVG YVXZFHV LU GSV JFZORGRVH LU GSV
NZGVIRZO.  ULI VCZNKOV, NFXS LU RG RH LFG LU XLKBIRTSG.  GSV IVHLOFGRLM
LU PVB RHHFVH HFXS ZH GSV JFZORGB LU HXZMMRMT ZMW RNZTV YILDHRMT ZOHL
DROO ZUUVXG WVEVOLKNVMG LU GSZG NZIPVG.

GSV GVXSMLOLTB RH IVZWROB ZEZROZYOV YFG XSZMTRMT IZKRWOB.  RM GSRH
XLMGVCG LU IZKRW XSZMTV, HVEVIZO UZXGLIH ZUUVXG JFZORGB ZMW XLHG, GL
DSRXS KLY RMGVMWH GL KZB KZIGRXFOZI ZGGVMGRLM, ULI VCZNKOV, GSV EZIRLFH
OVEVOH LU IVHLOFGRLM GSZG XZM YV ZXSRVEVW.  KLY YVORVEVH RG XZM YIRMT
IVHLOFGRLM FK GL 600 WKR, YFG ZM RMGVIKLOZGRLM KILXVHH UILN 400 GL 600 RH
NLIV ORPVOB.  GSV EZIRZGRLM JFZORGB RM NRXILURON DROO KILEV GL YV Z
SRTSOB RNKLIGZMG UZXGLI.  KLY NZB IVVCZNRMV GSV HGZMWZIWH FHVW GL URON RM
GSV URIHG KOZXV YB OLLPRMT ZG GSRH KILXVHH ZH Z ULOOLD-LM GL NRXILURONRMT.

LGSVI RNKLIGZMG UZXGLIH RMXOFWV:  GSV GVXSMRJFVH ZEZROZYOV GL GSV
LKVIZGLI ULI SZMWORMT NZGVIRZO, GSV DZBH LU RMGVTIZGRMT JFZORGB XLMGILO
RMGL GSV WRTRGRARMT DLIP UOLD, ZMW Z DLIP UOLD GSZG RMXOFWVH RMWVCRMT ZMW
HGLIZTV.  KLY'H IVJFRIVNVMG DZH GL YV ZYOV GL WVZO DRGS JFZORGB XLMGILO
ZG GSV KLRMG LU HXZMMRMT.  GSFH, GSZMPH GL CVILC, KLY ZMGRXRKZGVH SZERMT
Z NVXSZMRHN DSRXS DROO ZOOLD RG MLG LMOB GL HXZM RM YZGXS ULIN, YFG GL
IVERVD GSV NZGVIRZO ZH RG TLVH GSILFTS GSV HXZMMVI ZMW XLMGILO JFZORGB
UILN GSV LFGHVG.

GSV HGZMWZIWH ULI NVZHFIRMT JFZORGB ZMW XLHGH WVKVMW TIVZGOB LM GSV FHVH
LU GSV NZGVIRZO, RMXOFWRMT HFYHVJFVMG LXI, HGLIZTV, KIRMGRMT, ZMW
YILDHRMT.  YFG VHKVXRZOOB ZG RHHFV ULI KLY RH GSV UZXRORGB ULI YILDHRMT.
GSRH UZXRORGB, DZGVIH HZRW, RH KVISZKH GSV DVZPVHG ZHKVXG LU RNZTRMT
GVXSMLOLTB ZMW GSV NLHG RM MVVW LU WVEVOLKNVMG.

Z EZIRVGB LU UZXGLIH ZUUVXG GSV FHZYRORGB LU XLNKOVC WLXFNVMGH RM RNZTV
ULIN, ZNLMT GSVN:  1) GSV ZYRORGB LU GSV HBHGVN GL SZMWOV GSV UFOO IZMTV
LU WLXFNVMG GBKVH, MLG QFHG NLMLTIZKSH YFG HVIRZOH, NFOGR-KZIG
NLMLTIZKSH, ZMW NZMFHXIRKGH; 2) GSV OLXZGRLM LU GSV WZGZYZHV LU IVXLIW
ULI YRYORLTIZKSRX RMULINZGRLM ZYLFG GSV RNZTV WLXFNVMG, DSRXS KLY DZMGH
GL VMGVI LMXV ZMW RM GSV NLHG FHVUFO KOZXV, GSV LM-ORMV XZGZOLT; 3) Z
WLXFNVMG RWVMGRURVI ULI IVUVIVMXRMT GSV YRYORLTIZKSRX RMULINZGRLM RM LMV
KOZXV ZMW GSV RNZTVH RM ZMLGSVI; 4) GSV GVXSMRJFV ULI NZPRMT GSV YZHRX
RMGVIMZO HGIFXGFIV LU GSV WLXFNVMG ZXXVHHRYOV GL GSV IVZWVI; ZMW URMZOOB,
5) GSV KSBHRXZO KIVHVMGZGRLM LM GSV XIG LU GSLHV WLXFNVMGH.  KLY RH IVZWB
GL XLNKOVGV GSRH KSZHV MLD.  LMV OZHG WVXRHRLM RMELOEVH WVXRWRMT DSRXS
NZGVIRZO GL HXZM.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
WRHXFHHRLM * GRUU UROVH XLMHGRGFGV WV UZXGL HGZMWZIW * MZIZ'H VCKVIRVMXV
DRGS RNZTV XLMEVIHRLM HLUGDZIV ZMW GVCG XLMEVIHRLM * IUX 1314 *
XLMHRWVIZYOV UOFC XLMXVIMRMT ZEZROZYOV SZIWDZIV ZMW HLUGDZIV HLOFGRLMH *
MZO GSILFTS-KFG IZGV WFIRMT HXZMMRMT * DRMWLD NZMZTVNVMG JFVHGRLMH *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

RM GSV JFVHGRLM-ZMW-ZMHDVI KVIRLW GSZG ULOOLDVW DZGVIH'H KIVHVMGZGRLM,
GSV ULOOLDRMT KLRMGH VNVITVW:

     * ARWZI'H HGZGVNVMG ZYLFG FHRMT GRUU UROVH ZH Z HGZMWZIW NVZMG WV
     UZXGL HGZMWZIW.  GSRH RH DSZG NLHG KVLKOV FHV ZMW GBKRXZOOB VCXSZMTV
     DRGS LGSVI TILFKH, ZXILHH KOZGULINH, LI VEVM LXXZHRLMZOOB ZXILHH
     WRHKOZB HLUGDZIV.

     * SLONVH XLNNVMGVW LM GSV FMHFXXVHHUFO VCKVIRVMXV LU MZIZ RM
     ZGGVNKGRMT GL IFM RNZTV-XLMEVIHRLM HLUGDZIV LI GL VCXSZMTV YVGDVVM
     ZKKORXZGRLMH:  DSZG ZIV HFKKLHVWOB GRUU UROVH TL RMGL LGSVI HLUGDZIV
     GSZG RH HFKKLHVW GL YV ZYOV GL ZXXVKG GRUU YFG XZMMLG IVXLTMRAV GSV
     ULINZG ZMW XZMMLG WVZO DRGS RG, ZMW GSFH IVMWVIH GSV VCXSZMTV
     FHVOVHH.  IV GVCG XLMEVIHRLM, SV MLGVW GSV WRUUVIVMG IVXLTMRGRLM
     IZGVH LYGZRMVW YB HFYHGRGFGRMT GSV NZPV ZMW NLWVO LU HXZMMVIH RM
     MZIZ'H IVXVMG GVHG LU ZM "RMGVOORTVMG" XSZIZXGVI-IVXLTMRGRLM KILWFXG
     ULI Z MVD XLNKZMB.  RM GSV HVOVXGRLM LU SZIWDZIV ZMW HLUGDZIV,
     SLONVH ZITFVW, HLUGDZIV ML OLMTVI XLMHGRGFGVH GSV LEVIIRWRMT UZXGLI
     RG WRW FMGRO ZYLFG Z BVZI ZTL; IZGSVI RG RH KVISZKH RNKLIGZMG GL
     OLLP ZG YLGS MLD.

     * WZMMB XLSVM ZMW ZOZM PZGA LU GSV FMREVIHRGB LU HLFGSVIM XZORULIMRZ
     RMULINZGRLM HXRVMXVH RMHGRGFGV YVTZM XRIXFOZGRMT ZH ZM RMGVIMVG IUX
     (IUX 1314) ZYLFG Z NLMGS ZTL Z HGZMWZIW ULI Z GRUU RMGVIXSZMTV
     ULINZG ULI RMGVIMVG WRHGIRYFGRLM LU NLMLXSILNV YRG-NZKKVW RNZTVH,
     DSRXS OBMXS HZRW SV YVORVEVW DLFOW YV FHVW ZH Z WV UZXGL HGZMWZIW.

     * UOVRHXSSZFVI'H RNKIVHHRLM UILN SVZIRMT GSVHV IVKLIGH ZMW GSRMPRMT
     ZYLFG ZN'H VCKVIRVMXV DZH GSZG GSVIV RH XLMHRWVIZYOV UOFC XLMXVIMRMT
     ZEZROZYOV SZIWDZIV ZMW HLUGDZIV HLOFGRLMH.  SLLGLM ZTIVVW ZMW
     XLNNVMGVW ZG GSV HZNV GRNV LM ARWZI'H HGZGVNVMG GSZG GSV VJFRKNVMG
     VNKOLBVW ZUUVXGH GSV IVHFOGH KILWFXVW.  LMV XZMMLG WIZD Z XLNKOVGV
     XLMXOFHRLM YB HZBRMT RG RH WRUURXFOG LI RNKLHHRYOV GL KVIULIN LXI
     UILN HXZMMRMT NRXILURON, ULI VCZNKOV, DRGS GSZG WVERXV,  GSZG HVG LU
     KZIZNVGVIH, ZMW HBHGVN IVJFRIVNVMGH, YVXZFHV MFNVILFH LGSVI KVLKOV
     ZIV ZXXLNKORHSRMT QFHG GSZG, FHRMT LGSVI XLNKLMVMGH, KVISZKH.
     SLLGLM LKRMVW GSZG YLGS GSV SZIWDZIV ZMW GSV HLUGDZIV DVIV SRTSOB
     RNKLIGZMG.  NLHG LU GSV KILYOVNH WRHXFHHVW GLWZB SZEV YVVM HLOEVW RM
     MFNVILFH WRUUVIVMG DZBH YB LGSVI KVLKOV.  GSLFTS RG RH TLLW GL YV
     XLTMRAZMG LU EZIRLFH VCKVIRVMXVH, GSRH RH MLG GL HZB GSZG RG DROO
     ZODZBH YV GSFH.

     * ZG MZO, GSV GSILFTS-KFG IZGV LU GSV HXZMMRMT KILXVHH ULI KZKVI,
     KZTV YB KZTV, KVIULINRMT LXI, IZMTVH UILN 300 GL 600 KZTVH KVI WZB;
     MLG KVIULINRMT LXI RH XLMHRWVIZYOB UZHGVI, ZOGSLFTS SLD NFXS UZHGVI
     RH MLG PMLDM.  GSRH RH ULI HXZMMRMT UILN YLFMW YLLPH, DSRXS RH NFXS
     HOLDVI.

     * DZGVIH XLNNVMGVW LM DRMWLD NZMZTVNVMG JFVHGRLMH:  WVX KILKLHVW ZM
     C-DRMWLDH HLOFGRLM DSRXS DZH KILYOVNZGRXZO ULI GDL IVZHLMH.  LMV DZH
     KLY'H IVJFRIVNVMG GL YV ZYOV GL NZMRKFOZGV RNZTVH LM GSV DLIPHGZGRLM
     ZMW YIRMT GSVN WLDM GL GSV DLIPHGZGRLM RGHVOU ZMW GSV LGSVI DZH
     MVGDLIP FHZTV.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
GSLNZ * ROOFHGIZGRLM LU WVURXRVMXRVH RM HXZMMRMT ZMW HGLIZTV KILXVHH *
RNZTV JFZORGB RM GSRH KILXVHH * WRUUVIVMG XLHGH VMGZROVW YB YVGGVI RNZTV
JFZORGB * GVXSMRJFVH ULI LEVIXLNRMT EZIRLFH WV-URXRVMXRVH:  URCVW
GSIVHSLOWRMT, WBMZNRX GSIVHSLOWRMT, WRGSVIRMT, RNZTV NVITV * KZTV VWTV
VUUVXGH *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

TVLITV GSLNZ, XSRVU, XLNNFMRXZGRLMH VMTRMVVIRMT YIZMXS, MZGRLMZO ORYIZIB
LU NVWRXRMV (MON), ROOFHGIZGVW HVEVIZO LU GSV WVURXRVMXRVH WRHXFHHVW YB
GSV KIVERLFH HKVZPVIH.  SV RMGILWFXVW GSV GLKRX LU HKVXRZO KILYOVNH YB
MLGRMT GSV ZWEZMGZTVH LU VOVXGILMRX RNZTRMT.  ULI VCZNKOV, RG RH IVTVMVIZYOV
YVXZFHV RG RH Z XLWVW UROV, ZMW IVZO-GRNV JFZORGB XLMGILO RH KLHHRYOV DRGS
VOVXGILMRX XZKGFIV, DSVIVZH RM KSLGLTIZKSRX XZKGFIV RG RH MLG.

LMV LU GSV WRUURXFOGRVH WRHXFHHVW RM GSV HXZMMRMT ZMW HGLIZTV KILXVHH DZH
RNZTV JFZORGB DSRXS, DRGSLFG YVOZYLIRMT GSV LYERLFH, NVZMH WRUUVIVMG
GSRMTH ULI NZKH, NVWRXZO C-IZBH, LI YILZWXZHG GVOVERHRLM.  RM GSV XZHV LU
WLXFNVMGH, GSLNZ HZRW, RNZTV JFZORGB YLROH WLDM GL OVTRYRORGB LU GSV
GVCGFZO KZIGH, ZMW URWVORGB RM GSV XZHV LU TIZB LI XLOLI KSLGL KIRMG-GBKV
NZGVIRZO.  OVTRYRORGB YLROH WLDM GL HXZM WVMHRGB, GSV HGZMWZIW RM NLHG
XZHVH YVRMT 300 WKR.  RMXIVZHRMT GSV IVHLOFGRLM DRGS HXZMMVIH GSZG
KVIULIN 600 LI 1200 WKR, SLDVEVI, XLNVH ZG Z XLHG.

YVGGVI RNZTV JFZORGB VMGZROH ZG OVZHG ULFI WRUUVIVMG PRMWH LU XLHGH:  1)
VJFRKNVMG XLHGH, YVXZFHV GSV XXW (R.V., XSZITV-XLFKOV WVERXV) DRGS
TIVZGVI MFNYVI LU VOVNVMGH XLHGH NLIV;  2) GRNV XLHGH GSZG GIZMHOZGV GL
GSV ZXGFZO XZKGFIV XLHGH, YVXZFHV NZMFZO OZYLI RH RMELOEVW (GSV GRNV RH
ZOHL WVKVMWVMG LM GSV UZXG GSZG NLIV WZGZ SZH GL YV NLEVW ZILFMW RM GSV
NZXSRMV RM GSV HXZMMRMT LI MVGDLIP WVERXVH GSZG KVIULIN GSV HXZMMRMT ZH
DVOO ZH GSV HGLIZTV);  3) NVWRZ XLHGH, YVXZFHV ZG SRTS IVHLOFGRLMH OZITVI
UROVH SZEV GL YV HGLIVW; ZMW 4) GIZMHNRHHRLM XLHGH, YVXZFHV GSVIV RH QFHG
NLIV WZGZ GL YV GIZMHNRGGVW.

YFG DSROV IVHLOFGRLM GZPVH XZIV LU GSV RHHFV LU OVTRYRORGB RM RNZTV
JFZORGB, LGSVI WVURXRVMXRVH SZEV GL WL DRGS XLMGIZHG ZMW VOVNVMGH LM GSV
KZTV HXZMMVW LI GSV RNZTV GSZG MVVWVW GL YV IVNLEVW LI XOZIRURVW.  GSFH,
GSLNZ KILXVVWVW GL ROOFHGIZGV EZIRLFH WVURXRVMXRVH, SLD GSVB ZIV
NZMRUVHGVW, ZMW HVEVIZO GVXSMRJFVH GL LEVIXLNV GSVN.

URCVW GSIVHSLOWRMT DZH GSV URIHG GVXSMRJFV WVHXIRYVW, HFRGZYOV ULI
YOZXP-ZMW-DSRGV GVCG, DSVM GSV XLMGIZHG WLVH MLG EZIB LEVI GSV KZTV.  LMV
XZM SZEV NZMB WRUUVIVMG GSIVHSLOW OVEVOH RM HXZMMRMT WVERXVH.  GSFH,
GSLNZ LUUVIVW ZM VCZNKOV LU VCGIVNVOB KLLI XLMGIZHG, DSRXS IVHFOGVW UILN
GSV UZXG GSZG GSV HGLXP DZH Z SVZEB IVW.  GSRH RH GSV HLIG LU RNZTV GSZG
DSVM NRXILURONVW UZROH GL KILERWV ZMB OVTRYRORGB DSZGHLVEVI.  URCVW
GSIVHSLOWRMT RH GSV DZB GL XSZMTV GSV YOZXP-GL-IVW XLMGIZHG GL GSV
WVHRIVW YOZXP-GL-DSRGV XLMGIZHG.

LGSVI VCZNKOVH RMXOFWVW NZGVIRZO GSZG SZW YVVM YILDMVW LI BVOOLDVW YB
ZTV.  GSRH DZH ZOHL Z XZHV LU XLMGIZHG WVURXRVMXB, ZMW XLIIVXGRLM DZH
WLMV YB URCVW GSIVHSLOWRMT.  Z URMZO VCZNKOV YLROH WLDM GL GSV HZNV
GSRMT, HORTSG EZIRZYRORGB, YFG RG RH MLG HRTMRURXZMG.  URCVW GSIVHSLOWRMT
HLOEVH GSRH KILYOVN ZH DVOO.  GSV NRXILURON VJFREZOVMG RH XVIGZRMOB OVTRYOV,
YFG RG XLNVH DRGS WZIP ZIVZH.  GSLFTS GSLNZ WRW MLG SZEV Z HORWV LU GSV
NRXILURON RM GSRH XZHV, SV WRW HSLD GSV IVKILWFXVW VOVXGILMRX RNZTV.

DSVM LMV SZH EZIRZYOV XLMGIZHG LEVI Z KZTV LI GSV ORTSGRMT LEVI GSV KZTV
ZIVZ EZIRVH, VHKVXRZOOB RM GSV XZHV DSVIV Z YLFMW ELOFNV SZH ORTSG
HSRMRMT LM RG, GSV RNZTV NFHG YV KILXVHHVW YB Z WBMZNRX GSIVHSLOWRMT
HXSVNV.  LMV HXSVNV, WBMZNRX ZEVIZTRMT, ZOOLDH GSV GSIVHSLOW OVEVO MLG GL
YV URCVW YFG GL YV IVXLNKFGVW ULI VEVIB KRCVO UILN GSV MVRTSYLIRMT
XSZIZXGVIRHGRXH.  GSV MVRTSYLIH LU Z KRCVO WVGVINRMV DSVIV GSV GSIVHSLOW
HSLFOW YV HVG ULI GSZG KRCVO.

GSLNZ HSLDVW ZM VCZNKOV LU Z KZTV GSZG SZW YVVM NZWV WVURXRVMG YB Z
EZIRVGB LU GVXSMRJFVH, RMXOFWRMT Z YFIM NZIP, XLUUVV HGZRMH, ZMW Z BVOOLD
NZIPVI.  ZKKORXZGRLM LU Z URCVW-GSIVHSLOWRMT HXSVNV, GSLNZ ZITFVW, NRTSG
GZPV XZIV LU HVEVIZO WVURXRVMXRVH LM GSV KZTV YFG MLG ZOO LU GSVN.
KVIULINRMT GSV XZOXFOZGRLM ULI Z WBMZNRX GSIVHSLOW HVGGRMT, SLDVEVI,
IVNLEVH NLHG LU GSV WVURXRVMXRVH HL GSZG ZG OVZHG GSV GVCG RH OVTRYOV.

ZMLGSVI KILYOVN RH IVKIVHVMGRMT Z TIZB OVEVO DRGS YOZXP-ZMW-DSRGV KRCVOH
YB Z KILXVHH PMLDM ZH WRGSVIRMT LI VOVXGILMRX HXIVVMRMT.  YFG WRGSVIRMT
WLVH MLG KILERWV TLLW RNZTV JFZORGB ULI KFIV YOZXP-ZMW-DSRGV GVCGFZO
NZGVIRZO.  GSLNZ ROOFHGIZGVW GSRH KLRMG DRGS VCZNKOVH. ZOGSLFTS RGH
HFRGZYRORGB ULI KSLGLKIRMG RH GSV IVZHLM ULI VOVXGILMRX HXIVVMRMT LI
WRGSVIRMT, RG XZMMLG YV FHVW ULI VEVIB XLNKLFMW RNZTV.  RM GSV WLXFNVMG
GSZG DZH WRHGIRYFGVW YB XCK, GSLNZ MLGRXVW GSZG GSV WRGSVIVW RNZTV LU GSV
RVVV GVHG XSZIG VERMXVW HLNV WVGVIRLIZGRLM RM GSV GVCG.  SV KIVHVMGVW ZM
VCGIVNV VCZNKOV LU WVGVIRLIZGRLM RM GSV GVCG RM DSRXS XLNKLFMWVW
WLXFNVMGH SZW GL YV HVG IRTSG YB LGSVI GVXSMRJFVH.  GSV GVXSMRJFV
