                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Additional comments on TIFF *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the brief discussion period that followed BATTIN's presentation,
BARONAS explained that TIFF was not developed in collaboration with or
under the auspices of AIIM.  TIFF is a company product, not a standard,
is owned by two corporations, and is always changing.  BARONAS also
observed that ANSI/AIIM MS53, a bi-level image file transfer format that
allows unlike systems to exchange images, is compatible with TIFF as well
as with DEC's architecture and IBM's MODCA/IOCA.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
HOOTON * Several questions to be considered in discussing text conversion
*
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

HOOTON introduced the final topic, text conversion, by noting that it is
becoming an increasingly important part of the imaging business.  Many
people now realize that it enhances their system to be able to have more
and more character data as part of their imaging system.  Re the issue of
OCR versus rekeying, HOOTON posed several questions:  How does one get
text into computer-readable form?  Does one use automated processes?
Does one attempt to eliminate the use of operators where possible?
Standards for accuracy, he said, are extremely important:  it makes a
major difference in cost and time whether one sets as a standard 98.5
percent acceptance or 99.5 percent.  He mentioned outsourcing as a
possibility for converting text.  Finally, what one does with the image
to prepare it for the recognition process is also important, he said,
because such preparation changes how recognition is viewed, as well as
facilitates recognition itself.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
LESK * Roles of participants in CORE * Data flow * The scanning process *
The image interface * Results of experiments involving the use of
electronic resources and traditional paper copies * Testing the issue of
serendipity * Conclusions *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Michael LESK, executive director, Computer Science Research, Bell
Communications Research, Inc. (Bellcore), discussed the Chemical Online
Retrieval Experiment (CORE), a cooperative project involving Cornell
University, OCLC, Bellcore, and the American Chemical Society (ACS).

LESK spoke on 1) how the scanning was performed, including the unusual
feature of page segmentation, and 2) the use made of the text and the
image in experiments.

Working with the chemistry journals (because ACS has been saving its
typesetting tapes since the mid-1970s and thus has a significant back-run
of the most important chemistry journals in the United States), CORE is
attempting to create an automated chemical library.  Approximately a
quarter of the pages by square inch are made up of images of
quasi-pictorial material; dealing with the graphic components of the
pages is extremely important.  LESK described the roles of participants
in CORE:  1) ACS provides copyright permission, journals on paper,
journals on microfilm, and some of the definitions of the files; 2) at
Bellcore, LESK chiefly performs the data preparation, while Dennis Egan
performs experiments on the users of chemical abstracts, and supplies the
indexing and numerous magnetic tapes;  3) Cornell provides the site of the
experiment; 4) OCLC develops retrieval software and other user interfaces.
Various manufacturers and publishers have furnished other help.

Concerning data flow, Bellcore receives microfilm and paper from ACS; the
microfilm is scanned by outside vendors, while the paper is scanned
inhouse on an Improvision scanner, twenty pages per minute at 300 dpi,
which provides sufficient quality for all practical uses.  LESK would
prefer to have more gray level, because one of the ACS journals prints on
some colored pages, which creates a problem.

Bellcore performs all this scanning, creates a page-image file, and also
selects from the pages the graphics, to mix with the text file (which is
discussed later in the Workshop).  The user is always searching the ASCII
file, but she or he may see a display based on the ASCII or a display
based on the images.

LESK illustrated how the program performs page analysis, and the image
interface.  (The user types several words, is presented with a list--
usually of the titles of articles contained in an issue--that derives
from the ASCII, clicks on an icon and receives an image that mirrors an
ACS page.)  LESK also illustrated an alternative interface, based on text
on the ASCII, the so-called SuperBook interface from Bellcore.

LESK next presented the results of an experiment conducted by Dennis Egan
and involving thirty-six students at Cornell, one third of them
undergraduate chemistry majors, one third senior undergraduate chemistry
majors, and one third graduate chemistry students.  A third of them
received the paper journals, the traditional paper copies and chemical
abstracts on paper.  A third received image displays of the pictures of
the pages, and a third received the text display with pop-up graphics.

The students were given several questions made up by some chemistry
professors.  The questions fell into five classes, ranging from very easy
to very difficult, and included questions designed to simulate browsing
as well as a traditional information retrieval-type task.

LESK furnished the following results.  In the straightforward question
search--the question being, what is the phosphorus oxygen bond distance
and hydroxy phosphate?--the students were told that they could take
fifteen minutes and, then, if they wished, give up.  The students with
paper took more than fifteen minutes on average, and yet most of them
gave up.  The students with either electronic format, text or image,
received good scores in reasonable time, hardly ever had to give up, and
usually found the right answer.

In the browsing study, the students were given a list of eight topics,
told to imagine that an issue of the Journal of the American Chemical
Society had just appeared on their desks, and were also told to flip
through it and to find topics mentioned in the issue.  The average scores
were about the same.  (The students were told to answer yes or no about
whether or not particular topics appeared.)  The errors, however, were
quite different.  The students with paper rarely said that something
appeared when it had not.  But they often failed to find something
actually mentioned in the issue.  The computer people found numerous
things, but they also frequently said that a topic was mentioned when it
was not.  (The reason, of course, was that they were performing word
searches.  They were finding that words were mentioned and they were
concluding that they had accomplished their task.)

This question also contained a trick to test the issue of serendipity.
The students were given another list of eight topics and instructed,
without taking a second look at the journal, to recall how many of this
new list of eight topics were in this particular issue.  This was an
attempt to see if they performed better at remembering what they were not
looking for.  They all performed about the same, paper or electronics,
about 62 percent accurate.  In short, LESK said, people were not very
good when it came to serendipity, but they were no worse at it with
computers than they were with paper.

(LESK gave a parenthetical illustration of the learning curve of students
who used SuperBook.)

The students using the electronic systems started off worse than the ones
using print, but by the third of the three sessions in the series had
caught up to print.  As one might expect, electronics provide a much
better means of finding what one wants to read; reading speeds, once the
object of the search has been found, are about the same.

Almost none of the students could perform the hard task--the analogous
transformation.  (It would require the expertise of organic chemists to
complete.)  But an interesting result was that the students using the text
search performed terribly, while those using the image system did best.
That the text search system is driven by text offers the explanation.
Everything is focused on the text; to see the pictures, one must press
on an icon.  Many students found the right article containing the answer
to the question, but they did not click on the icon to bring up the right
figure and see it.  They did not know that they had found the right place,
and thus got it wrong.

The short answer demonstrated by this experiment was that in the event
one does not know what to read, one needs the electronic systems; the
electronic systems hold no advantage at the moment if one knows what to
read, but neither do they impose a penalty.

LESK concluded by commenting that, on one hand, the image system was easy
to use.  On the other hand, the text display system, which represented
twenty man-years of work in programming and polishing, was not winning,
because the text was not being read, just searched.  The much easier
system is highly competitive as well as remarkably effective for the
actual chemists.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
ERWAY * Most challenging aspect of working on AM * Assumptions guiding
AM's approach * Testing different types of service bureaus * AM's
requirement for 99.95 percent accuracy * Requirements for text-coding *
Additional factors influencing AM's approach to coding * Results of AM's
experience with rekeying * Other problems in dealing with service bureaus
* Quality control the most time-consuming aspect of contracting out
conversion * Long-term outlook uncertain *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

To Ricky ERWAY, associate coordinator, American Memory, Library of
Congress, the constant variety of conversion projects taking place
simultaneously represented perhaps the most challenging aspect of working
on AM.  Thus, the challenge was not to find a solution for text
conversion but a tool kit of solutions to apply to LC's varied
collections that need to be converted.  ERWAY limited her remarks to the
process of converting text to machine-readable form, and the variety of
LC's text collections, for example, bound volumes, microfilm, and
handwritten manuscripts.

Two assumptions have guided AM's approach, ERWAY said:  1) A desire not
to perform the conversion inhouse.  Because of the variety of formats and
types of texts, to capitalize the equipment and have the talents and
skills to operate them at LC would be extremely expensive.  Further, the
natural inclination to upgrade to newer and better equipment each year
made it reasonable for AM to focus on what it did best and seek external
conversion services.  Using service bureaus also allowed AM to have
several types of operations take place at the same time.  2) AM was not a
technology project, but an effort to improve access to library
collections.  Hence, whether text was converted using OCR or rekeying
mattered little to AM.  What mattered were cost and accuracy of results.

AM considered different types of service bureaus and selected three to
perform several small tests in order to acquire a sense of the field.
The sample collections with which they worked included handwritten
correspondence, typewritten manuscripts from the 1940s, and
eighteenth-century printed broadsides on microfilm.  On none of these
samples was OCR performed; they were all rekeyed.  AM had several special
requirements for the three service bureaus it had engaged.  For instance,
any errors in the original text were to be retained.  Working from bound
volumes or anything that could not be sheet-fed also constituted a factor
eliminating companies that would have performed OCR.

AM requires 99.95 percent accuracy, which, though it sounds high, often
means one or two errors per pagV.  GSV RMRGRZO YZGXS LU GVHG HZNKOVH
XLMGZRMVW HVEVIZO SZMWDIRGGVM NZGVIRZOH ULI DSRXS ZN WRW MLG IVJFRIV
GVCG-XLWRMT.  GSV IVHFOGH, VIDZB IVKLIGVW, DVIV RM ZOO XZHVH UZRIOB
XLNKZIZYOV:  ULI GSV NLHG KZIG, ZOO GSIVV HVIERXV YFIVZFH ZXSRVEVW 99.95
KVIXVMG ZXXFIZXB.  ZN DZH HZGRHURVW DRGS GSV DLIP YFG HFIKIRHVW ZG GSV XLHG.

ZH ZN YVTZM XLMEVIGRMT DSLOV XLOOVXGRLMH, RG IVGZRMVW GSV IVJFRIVNVMG ULI
99.95 KVIXVMG ZXXFIZXB ZMW ZWWVW IVJFRIVNVMGH ULI GVCG-XLWRMT.  ZN MVVWVW
GL YVTRM KVIULINRMT DLIP NLIV GSZM GSIVV BVZIH ZTL YVULIV OX IVJFRIVNVMGH
ULI HTNO ZKKORXZGRLMH SZW YVVM VHGZYORHSVW.  HRMXV ZN'H TLZO DZH HRNKOB
GL IVGZRM ZMB LU GSV RMGVOOVXGFZO XLMGVMG IVKIVHVMGVW YB GSV ULINZGGRMT
LU GSV WLXFNVMG (DSRXS DLFOW YV OLHG RU LMV KVIULINVW Z HGIZRTSG ZHXRR
XLMEVIHRLM), ZN FHVW "HTNO-ORPV" XLWVH.  GSVHV XLWVH IVHVNYOVW HTNO GZTH
YFG DVIV FHVW DRGSLFG GSV YVMVURG LU WLXFNVMG-GBKV WVURMRGRLMH.  ZN ULFMW
GSZG NZMB HVIERXV YFIVZFH DVIV MLG BVG HTNO-KILURXRVMG.

ZWWRGRLMZO UZXGLIH RMUOFVMXRMT GSV ZKKILZXS ZN GLLP DRGS IVHKVXG GL
XLWRMT RMXOFWVW:  1) GSV RMZYRORGB LU ZMB PMLDM NRXILXLNKFGVI-YZHVW
FHVI-IVGIRVEZO HLUGDZIV GL GZPV ZWEZMGZTV LU HTNO XLWRMT; ZMW 2) GSV
NFOGRKOV RMXLMHRHGVMXRVH RM ULINZG LU GSV LOWVI WLXFNVMGH, DSRXS
XLMURINVW ZN RM RGH WVHRIV MLG GL ZGGVNKG GL ULIXV GSV WRUUVIVMG ULINZGH
GL XLMULIN GL Z HRMTOV WLXFNVMG-GBKV WVURMRGRLM (WGW) ZMW GSFH XIVZGV GSV
MVVW ULI Z HVKZIZGV WGW ULI VZXS WLXFNVMG.

GSV UREV GVCG XLOOVXGRLMH GSZG ZN SZH XLMEVIGVW LI RH RM GSV KILXVHH LU
XLMEVIGRMT RMXOFWV Z XLOOVXGRLM LU VRTSGVVMGS-XVMGFIB YILZWHRWVH, Z
XLOOVXGRLM LU KZNKSOVGH, GDL GBKVHXIRKG WLXFNVMG XLOOVXGRLMH, ZMW Z
XLOOVXGRLM LU 150 YLLPH.

VIDZB MVCG IVERVDVW GSV IVHFOGH LU ZN'H VCKVIRVMXV DRGS IVPVBRMT, MLGRMT
ZTZRM GSZG YVXZFHV GSV YFOP LU ZN'H NZGVIRZOH ZIV SRHGLIRXZO, GSV JFZORGB
LU GSV GVCG LUGVM WLVH MLG OVMW RGHVOU GL LXI.  DSROV MLM-VMTORHS
HKVZPVIH ZIV OVHH ORPVOB GL TFVHH LI VOZYLIZGV LI XLIIVXG GBKLH RM GSV
LIRTRMZO GVCG, GSVB ZIV ZOHL OVHH ZYOV GL RMUVI DSZG DV DLFOW; GSVB ZOHL
ZIV MVZIOB RMXZKZYOV LU XLMEVIGRMT SZMWDIRGGVM GVCG.  ZMLGSVI
WRHZWEZMGZTV LU DLIPRMT DRGS LEVIHVZH PVBVIH RH GSZG GSVB ZIV NFXS OVHH
ORPVOB GL GVOVKSLMV DRGS JFVHGRLMH, VHKVXRZOOB LM GSV XLWRMT, DRGS GSV
IVHFOG GSZG GSVB WVEVOLK GSVRI LDM IFOVH ZH GSVB VMXLFMGVI MVD
HRGFZGRLMH.

TLEVIMNVMG XLMGIZXGRMT KILXVWFIVH ZMW GRNV UIZNVH KLHVW Z NZQLI XSZOOVMTV
GL KVIULINRMT GSV XLMEVIHRLM.  NZMB HVIERXV YFIVZFH ZIV MLG ZXXFHGLNVW GL
IVGZRMRMT GSV RNZTV, VEVM RU GSVB KVIULIN LXI.  GSFH, JFVHGRLMH LU RNZTV
ULINZG ZMW HGLIZTV NVWRZ DVIV HLNVDSZG MLEVO GL NZMB LU GSVN.  VIDZB ZOHL
IVNZIPVW LGSVI KILYOVNH RM WVZORMT DRGS HVIERXV YFIVZFH, ULI VCZNKOV,
GSVRI RMZYRORGB GL KVIULIN GVCG XLMEVIHRLM UILN GSV PRMW LU NRXILURON
GSZG OX FHVH ULI KIVHVIEZGRLM KFIKLHVH.

YFG JFZORGB XLMGILO, RM VIDZB'H VCKVIRVMXV, DZH GSV NLHG GRNV-XLMHFNRMT
ZHKVXG LU XLMGIZXGRMT LFG XLMEVIHRLM.  ZN SZH YVVM ZGGVNKGRMT GL KVIULIN
Z 10-KVIXVMG JFZORGB IVERVD, OLLPRMT ZG VRGSVI VEVIB GVMGS WLXFNVMG LI
VEVIB GVMGS KZTV GL NZPV XVIGZRM GSZG GSV HVIERXV YFIVZFH ZIV NZRMGZRMRMT
