actually actively recommended for all cases, except that one document
one's source.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN agreed with BESSER about this trade-off:  all the
projects in a set of twenty TEI-conformant projects will not necessarily
tag the material in the same way.  One result of the TEI will be that the
easiest problems will be solved--those dealing with the external form of
the information; but the problem that is hardest in interchange is that
one is not encoding what another wants, and vice versa.  Thus, after
the adoption of a common notation, the differences in the underlying
conceptions of what is interesting about texts become more visible.
The success of a standard like the TEI will lie in the ability of
the recipient of interchanged texts to use some of what it contains
and to add the information that was not encoded that one wants, in a
layered way, so that texts can be gradually enriched and one does not
have to put in everything all at once.  Hence, having a well-behaved
markup scheme is important.

STEVENS followed up on the paradoxical analogy that BESSER alluded to in
the example of the MARC records, namely, the formats that are the same
except that they are different.  STEVENS drew a parallel between
document-type definitions and MARC records for books and serials and maps,
where one has a tagging structure and there is a text-interchange.
STEVENS opined that the producers of the information will set the terms
for the standard (i.e., develop document-type definitions for the users
of their products), creating a situation that will be problematical for
an institution like the Library of Congress, which will have to deal with
the DTDs in the event that a multiplicity of them develops.  Thus,
numerous people are seeking a standard but cannot find the tag set that
will be acceptable to them and their clients.  SPERBERG-McQUEEN agreed
with this view, and said that the situation was in a way worse:  attempting
to unify arbitrary DTDs resembled attempting to unify a MARC record with a
bibliographic record done according to the Prussian instructions.
According to STEVENS, this situation occurred very early in the process.

WATERS recalled from early discussions on Project Open Book the concern
of many people that merely by producing images, POB was not really
enhancing intellectual access to the material.  Nevertheless, not wishing
to overemphasize the opposition between imaging and full text, WATERS
stated that POB views getting the images as a first step toward possibly
converting to full text through character recognition, if the technology
is appropriate.  WATERS also emphasized that encoding is involved even
with a set of images.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN agreed with WATERS that one can create an SGML document
consisting wholly of images.  At first sight, organizing graphic images
with an SGML document may not seem to offer great advantages, but the
advantages of the scheme WATERS described would be precisely that
ability to move into something that is more of a multimedia document:
a combination of transcribed text and page images.  WEIBEL concurred in
this judgment, offering evidence from Project ADAPT, where a page is
divided into text elements and graphic elements, and in fact the text
elements are organized by columns and lines.  These lines may be used as
the basis for distributing documents in a network environment.  As one
develops software intelligent enough to recognize what those elements
are, it makes sense to apply SGML to an image initially, that may, in
fact, ultimately become more and more text, either through OCR or edited
OCR or even just through keying.  For WATERS, the labor of composing the
document and saying this set of documents or this set of images belongs
to this document constitutes a significant investment.

WEIBEL also made the point that the AAP tag sets, while not excessively
prescriptive, offer a common starting point; they do not define the
structure of the documents, though.  They have some recommendations about
DTDs one could use as examples, but they do just suggest tag sets.   For
example, the CORE project attempts to use the AAP markup as much as
possible, but there are clearly areas where structure must be added.
That in no way contradicts the use of AAP tag sets.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN noted that the TEI prepared a long working paper early
on about the AAP tag set and what it lacked that the TEI thought it
needed, and a fairly long critique of the naming conventions, which has
led to a very different style of naming in the TEI.  He stressed the
importance of the opposition between prescriptive markup, the kind that a
publisher or anybody can do when producing documents de novo, and
descriptive markup, in which one has to take what the text carrier
provides.  In these particular tag sets it is easy to overemphasize this
opposition, because the AAP tag set is extremely flexible.  Even if one
just used the DTDs, they allow almost anything to appear almost anywhere.

                                 ******

SESSION VI.  COPYRIGHT ISSUES

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
PETERS * Several cautions concerning copyright in an electronic
environment * Review of copyright law in the United States * The notion
of the public good and the desirability of incentives to promote it *
What copyright protects * Works not protected by copyright * The rights
of copyright holders * Publishers' concerns in today's electronic
environment * Compulsory licenses * The price of copyright in a digital
medium and the need for cooperation * Additional clarifications *  Rough
justice oftentimes the outcome in numerous copyright matters * Copyright
in an electronic society * Copyright law always only sets up the
boundaries; anything can be changed by contract *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Marybeth PETERS, policy planning adviser to the Register of Copyrights,
Library of Congress,   made several general comments and then opened the
floor to discussion of subjects of interest to the audience.

Having attended several sessions in an effort to gain a sense of what
people did and where copyright would affect their lives, PETERS expressed
the following cautions:

     * If one takes and converts materials and puts them in new forms,
     then, from a copyright point of view, one is creating something and
     will receive some rights.

     * However, if what one is converting already exists, a question
     immediately arises about the status of the materials in question.

     * Putting something in the public domain in the United States offers
     some freedom from anxiety, but distributing it throughout the world
     on a network is another matter, even if one has put it in the public
     domain in the United States.  Re foreign laws, very frequently a
     work can be in the public domain in the United States but protected
     in other countries.  Thus, one must consider all of the places a
     work may reach, lest one unwittingly become liable to being faced
     with a suit for copyright infringement, or at least a letter
     demanding discussion of what one is doing.

PETERS reviewed copyright law in the United States.  The U.S.
Constitution effectively states that Congress has the power to enact
copyright laws for two purposes:  1) to encourage the creation and
dissemination of intellectual works for the good of society as a whole;
and, significantly, 2) to give creators and those who package and
disseminate materials the economic rewards that are due them.

Congress strives to strike a balance, which at times can become an
emotional issue.  The United States has never accepted the notion of the
natural right of an author so much as it has accepted the notion of the
public good and the desirability of incentives to promote it.  This state
of affairs, however, has created strains on the international level and
is the reason for several of the differences in the laws that we have.
Today the United States protects almost every kind of work that can be
called an expression of an author.  The standard for gaining copyright
protection is simply originality.  This is a low standard and means that
a work is not copied from something else, as well as shows a certain
minimal ZNLFMG LU ZFGSLIHSRK.  LMV XZM ZOHL ZXJFRIV XLKBIRTSG KILGVXGRLM
ULI NZPRMT Z MVD EVIHRLM LU KIVVCRHGRMT NZGVIRZO, KILERWVW RG NZMRUVHGH
HLNV HKZIP LU XIVZGRERGB.

SLDVEVI, XLKBIRTSG WLVH MLG KILGVXG RWVZH, NVGSLWH, HBHGVNH--LMOB GSV DZB
GSZG LMV VCKIVHHVH GSLHV GSRMTH.  MLI WLVH XLKBIRTSG KILGVXG ZMBGSRMT
GSZG RH NVXSZMRXZO, ZMBGSRMT GSZG WLVH MLG RMELOEV XSLRXV, LI XIRGVIRZ
XLMXVIMRMT DSVGSVI LI MLG LMV HSLFOW WL Z GSRMT.  ULI VCZNKOV, GSV
IVHFOGH LU Z KILXVHH XZOOVW WVXORXPRMT, RM DSRXS LMV NVXSZMRXZOOB IVNLEVH
RNKFIV HLFMWH UILN LOW IVXLIWRMTH, ZIV MLG XLKBIRTSGZYOV.  LM GSV LGSVI
SZMW, GSV XSLRXV GL IVXLIW Z HLMT WRTRGZOOB ZMW GL RMXIVZHV GSV HLFMW LU
ERLORMH LI GL YIRMT FK GSV GBNKZMR XLMHGRGFGVH GSV IVHFOGH LU XLMEVIHRLM
GSZG ZIV XLKBIRTSGZYOV.  NLIVLEVI, RU Z DLIP RH KILGVXGVW YB XLKBIRTSG RM
GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH, LMV TVMVIZOOB MVVWH GSV KVINRHHRLM LU GSV XLKBIRTSG
LDMVI GL XLMEVIG RG.  MLINZOOB, DSL DROO LDM GSV MVD--GSZG RH, XLMEVIGVW-
-NZGVIRZO RH Z NZGGVI LU XLMGIZXG.  RM GSV ZYHVMXV LU Z XLMGIZXG, GSV
KVIHLM DSL XIVZGVH GSV MVD NZGVIRZO RH GSV ZFGSLI ZMW LDMVI.  YFG KVLKOV
WL MLG TVMVIZOOB GSRMP ZYLFG GSV XLKBIRTSG RNKORXZGRLMH FMGRO ZUGVI GSV
UZXG.  KVGVIH HGIVHHVW GSV MVVW DSVM WVZORMT DRGS XLKBIRTSGVW DLIPH GL
GSRMP ZYLFG XLKBIRTSG RM ZWEZMXV.  LMV'H YZITZRMRMT KLDVI RH NFXS TIVZGVI
FK UILMG GSZM RG RH WLDM GSV ILZW.

KVGVIH MVCG WRHXFHHVW DLIPH MLG KILGVXGVW YB XLKBIRTSG, ULI VCZNKOV, ZMB
DLIP WLMV YB Z UVWVIZO VNKOLBVV ZH KZIG LU SRH LI SVI LUURXRZO WFGRVH RH
RM GSV KFYORX WLNZRM RM GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH.  GSV RHHFV RH MLG DSLOOB UIVV
LU WLFYG XLMXVIMRMT DSVGSVI LI MLG GSV DLIP RH RM GSV KFYORX WLNZRM
LFGHRWV GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH.  LGSVI NZGVIRZOH RM GSV KFYORX WLNZRM RMXOFWV:
ZMB DLIPH KFYORHSVW NLIV GSZM HVEVMGB-UREV BVZIH ZTL, ZMW ZMB DLIP
KFYORHSVW RM GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH NLIV GSZM GDVMGB-VRTSG BVZIH ZTL, DSLHV
XLKBIRTSG DZH MLG IVMVDVW.  RM GZOPRMT ZYLFG GSV MVD GVXSMLOLTB ZMW
KFGGRMT NZGVIRZO RM Z WRTRGZO ULIN GL HVMW ZOO LEVI GSV DLIOW, KVGVIH
XZFGRLMVW, LMV NFHG PVVK RM NRMW GSZG DSROV GSV IRTSGH NZB MLG YV ZM
RHHFV RM GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH, GSVB NZB YV RM WRUUVIVMG KZIGH LU GSV DLIOW,
DSVIV NLHG XLFMGIRVH KIVERLFHOB VNKOLBVW Z XLKBIRTSG GVIN LU GSV ORUV LU
GSV ZFGSLI KOFH URUGB BVZIH.

KVGVIH MVCG IVERVDVW GSV VXLMLNRXH LU XLKBIRTSG SLOWRMT.  HRNKOB,
VXLMLNRX IRTSGH ZIV GSV IRTSGH GL XLMGILO GSV IVKILWFXGRLM LU Z DLIP RM
ZMB ULIN.  GSVB YVOLMT GL GSV ZFGSLI, LI RM GSV XZHV LU Z DLIP NZWV ULI
SRIV, GSV VNKOLBVI.  GSV HVXLMW IRTSG, DSRXS RH XIRGRXZO GL XLMEVIHRLM,
RH GSV IRTSG GL XSZMTV Z DLIP.  GSV IRTSG GL NZPV MVD EVIHRLMH RH KVISZKH
LMV LU GSV NLHG HRTMRURXZMG IRTSGH LU ZFGSLIH, KZIGRXFOZIOB RM ZM
VOVXGILMRX DLIOW.  GSV GSRIW IRTSG RH GSV IRTSG GL KFYORHS GSV DLIP ZMW
GSV IRTSG GL WRHHVNRMZGV RG, HLNVGSRMT GSZG VEVIBLMV DSL WVZOH RM ZM
VOVXGILMRX NVWRFN MVVWH GL PMLD.  GSV YZHRX IFOV RH RU Z XLKB RH HLOW,
ZOO IRTSGH LU WRHGIRYFGRLM ZIV VCGRMTFRHSVW DRGS GSV HZOV LU GSZG XLKB.
GSV PVB RH GSZG RG NFHG YV HLOW.  Z MFNYVI LU XLNKZMRVH LEVIXLNV GSRH
LYHGZXOV YB OVZHRMT LI IVMGRMT GSVRI KILWFXG.  GSVHV XLNKZMRVH ZITFV GSZG
RU GSV NZGVIRZO RH IVMGVW LI OVZHVW ZMW MLG HLOW, GSVB XLMGILO GSV FHVH
LU Z DLIP.  GSV ULFIGS IRTSG, ZMW LMV EVIB RNKLIGZMG RM Z WRTRGZO DLIOW,
RH Z IRTSG LU KFYORX KVIULINZMXV, DSRXS NVZMH GSV IRTSG GL HSLD GSV DLIP
HVJFVMGRZOOB.  ULI VCZNKOV, XLKBIRTSG LDMVIH XLMGILO GSV HSLDRMT LU Z
XW-ILN KILWFXG RM Z KFYORX KOZXV HFXS ZH Z KFYORX ORYIZIB.  GSV IVEVIHV
HRWV LU KFYORX KVIULINZMXV RH HLNVGSRMT XZOOVW GSV IRTSG LU KFYORX
WRHKOZB.  NLIZO IRTSGH ZOHL VCRHG, DSRXS ZG GSV UVWVIZO OVEVO ZKKOB LMOB
GL EVIB ORNRGVW ERHFZO DLIPH LU ZIG, YFG RM GSVLIB NZB ZKKOB FMWVI
XLMGIZXG ZMW LGSVI KIRMXRKOVH.  NLIZO IRTSGH NZB RMXOFWV GSV IRTSG LU ZM
ZFGSLI GL SZEV SRH LI SVI MZNV LM Z DLIP, GSV IRTSG LU ZGGIRYFGRLM, ZMW
GSV IRTSG GL LYQVXG GL WRHGLIGRLM LI NFGROZGRLM--GSV IRTSG LU RMGVTIRGB.

GSV DZB XLKBIRTSG OZD RH DLIWVW TREVH NFXS OZGRGFWV GL ZXGRERGRVH HFXS ZH
KIVHVIEZGRLM; GL FHV LU NZGVIRZO ULI HXSLOZIOB ZMW IVHVZIXS KFIKLHVH DSVM
GSV FHVI WLVH MLG NZPV NFOGRKOV XLKRVH; ZMW GL GSV TVMVIZGRLM LU
UZXHRNROV XLKRVH LU FMKFYORHSVW DLIPH YB ORYIZIRVH ULI GSVNHVOEVH ZMW
LGSVI ORYIZIRVH.  YFG GSV OZD WLVH MLG ZOOLD ZMBLMV GL YVXLNV GSV
WRHGIRYFGLI LU GSV KILWFXG ULI GSV VMGRIV DLIOW.  RM GLWZB'H VOVXGILMRX
VMERILMNVMG, KFYORHSVIH ZIV VCGIVNVOB XLMXVIMVW GSZG GSV VMGRIV DLIOW RH
MVGDLIPVW ZMW XZM LYGZRM GSV RMULINZGRLM WVHRIVW UILN Z HRMTOV XLKB RM Z
HRMTOV ORYIZIB.  SVMXV, RU GSVIV RH GL YV LMOB LMV HZOV, DSRXS KFYORHSVIH
NZB XSLLHV GL OREV DRGS, GSVB DROO LYGZRM GSVRI NLMVB RM LGSVI DZBH, ULI
VCZNKOV, UILN ZXXVHH ZMW FHV.  SVMXV, GSV WVEVOLKNVMG LU HRGV ORXVMHVH
ZMW LGSVI PRMWH LU ZTIVVNVMGH GL XLEVI DSZG KFYORHSVIH YVORVEV GSVB
HSLFOW YV XLNKVMHZGVW ULI.  ZMB HLOFGRLM GSZG GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH GZPVH
GLWZB SZH GL XLMHRWVI GSV RMGVIMZGRLMZO ZIVMZ.

MLGRMT GSZG GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH RH Z NVNYVI LU GSV YVIMV XLMEVMGRLM ZMW
HFYHXIRYVH GL RGH KILERHRLMH, KVGVIH WVHXIRYVW GSV KVINRHHRLMH KILXVHH.
HSV ZOHL WVURMVW XLNKFOHLIB ORXVMHVH.  Z XLNKFOHLIB ORXVMHV, LU DSRXS GSV
FMRGVW HGZGVH SZH SZW Z UVD, YFROWH RMGL GSV OZD GSV IRTSG GL FHV Z DLIP
HFYQVXG GL XVIGZRM GVINH ZMW XLMWRGRLMH.  RM GSV RMGVIMZGRLMZO ZIVMZ,
SLDVEVI, GSV ZYRORGB GL FHV XLNKFOHLIB ORXVMHVH RH VCGIVNVOB ORNRGVW.
GSFH, XOVZIRMTSLFHVH ZMW LGSVI XLOOVXGREVH XLNKIRHV LMV LKGRLM GSZG SZH
HFXXVVWVW RM KILERWRMT ULI FHV LU Z DLIP.  LUGVM LEVIOLLPVW DSVM LMV
YVTRMH GL FHV XLKBIRTSGVW NZGVIRZO ZMW KFG KILWFXGH GLTVGSVI RH SLD
VCKVMHREV GSV KVINRHHRLMH KILXVHH ZMW NZMZTRMT RG RH.  ZXXLIWRMT GL
KVGVIH, GSV KIRXV LU XLKBIRTSG RM Z WRTRGZO NVWRFN, DSZGVEVI HLOFGRLM RH
DLIPVW LFG, DROO RMXOFWV NZMZTRMT ZMW ZHHVNYORMT GSV WZGZYZHV.  HSV
HGILMTOB IVXLNNVMWVW GSZG KFYORHSVIH ZMW ORYIZIRZMH LI KVLKOV DRGS
EZIRLFH YZXPTILFMWH XLLKVIZGV GL DLIP LFG ZWNRMRHGIZGREVOB UVZHRYOV
HBHGVNH, RM LIWVI GL KILWFXV YVGGVI IVHFOGH.

RM GSV OVMTGSB JFVHGRLM-ZMW-ZMHDVI KVIRLW GSZG ULOOLDVW KVGVIH'H
KIVHVMGZGRLM, GSV ULOOLDRMT KLRMGH VNVITVW:

     * GSV XLKBIRTSG LUURXV NZRMGZRMH GSZG ZMBGSRMT NVXSZMRXZO ZMW
     GLGZOOB VCSZFHGREV KILYZYOB RH MLG KILGVXGVW.  RM GSV VEVMG GSZG
     DSZG ZM RMWRERWFZO WRW RM WVEVOLKRMT KLGVMGRZOOB XLKBIRTSGZYOV
     NZGVIRZO RH MLG FMWVIHGLLW, GSV XLKBIRTSG LUURXV DROO ZHP ZYLFG GSV
     XIVZGREV XSLRXVH GSV ZKKORXZMG XSLHV GL NZPV LI MLG GL NZPV.  ZH Z
     KIZXGRXZO NZGGVI, RU LMV YVORVEVH HSV LI SV SZH NZWV VMLFTS LU GSLHV
     XSLRXVH, GSZG KVIHLM SZH Z IRTSG GL ZHHVIG Z XLKBIRTSG ZMW HLNVLMV
     VOHV NFHG ZHHVIG GSZG GSV DLIP RH MLG XLKBIRTSGZYOV.  GSV NLIV
     NVXSZMRXZO, GSV NLIV ZFGLNZGRX, Z GSRMT RH, GSV OVHH ORPVOB RG RH GL
     YV XLKBIRTSGZYOV.

     * MVZIOB ZOO KSLGLTIZKSH ZIV WVVNVW GL YV XLKBIRTSGZYOV, YFG ML LMV
     DLIIRVH ZYLFG GSVN NFXS, YVXZFHV VEVIBLMV RH UIVV GL GZPV GSV HZNV
     RNZTV.  GSFH, Z KSLGLTIZKSRX XLKBIRTSG IVKIVHVMGH DSZG RH XZOOVW Z
     "GSRM" XLKBIRTSG.  GSV KSLGLTIZKS RGHVOU NFHG YV WFKORXZGVW, RM
     LIWVI ULI XLKBIRTSG GL YV ERLOZGVW.

     * GSV XLKBIRTSG LUURXV GZPVH GSV KLHRGRLM GSZG C-IZBH ZIV MLG
     XLKBIRTSGZYOV YVXZFHV GSVB ZIV NVXSZMRXZO.  RG  XZM YV ZITFVW
     DSVGSVI LI MLG RNZTV VMSZMXVNVMG RM HXZMMRMT XZM YV KILGVXGVW.  LMV
     NFHG VCVIXRHV XZIV DRGS NZGVIRZO XIVZGVW DRGS KFYORX UFMWH ZMW
     TVMVIZOOB RM GSV KFYORX WLNZRM.  ZM ZIGRXOV DIRGGVM YB Z UVWVIZO
     VNKOLBVV, RU DIRGGVM ZH KZIG LU LUURXRZO WFGRVH, RH MLG
     XLKBIRTSGZYOV.  SLDVEVI, XLMGILO LEVI Z HXRVMGRURX ZIGRXOV DIRGGVM
     YB Z MZGRLMZO RMHGRGFGVH LU SVZOGS TIZMGVV (R.V., HLNVLMV DSL
     IVXVREVH NLMVB UILN GSV F.H. TLEVIMNVMG), WVKVMWH LM MRS KLORXB.  RU
     GSV TLEVIMNVMG ZTVMXB SZH ML KLORXB (ZMW GSZG KLORXB XZM YV
     XLMGZRMVW RM RGH IVTFOZGRLMH, GSV XLMGIZXG, LI GSV TIZMG), GSV
     ZFGSLI IVGZRMH XLKBIRTSG.  RU Z KILERHRLM LU GSV XLMGIZXG, TIZMG, LI
     IVTFOZGRLM HGZGVH GSZG GSVIV DROO YV ML XLKBIRTSG, GSVM RG WLVH MLG
     VCRHG.  DSVM Z DLIP RH XIVZGVW, XLKBIRTSG ZFGLNZGRXZOOB XLNVH RMGL
     VCRHGVMXV FMOVHH HLNVGSRMT VCRHGH GSZG HZBH RG WLVH MLG.

     * ZM VMSZMXVW VOVXGILMRX XLKB LU Z KIRMG XLKB LU ZM LOWVI IVUVIVMXV
     DLIP RM GSV KFYORX WLNZRM GSZG WLVH MLG XLMGZRM XLKBIRTSGZYOV MVD
     NZGVIRZO RH Z KFIVOB NVXSZMRXZO IVMWRGRLM LU GSV LIRTRMZO DLIP, ZMW
     RH MLG XLKBIRTSGZYOV.

     * FHFZOOB, DSVM Z DLIP VMGVIH GSV KFYORX WLNZRM, MLGSRMT XZM IVNLEV
