     automatic renewal, which means that copyright on any work published
     between l964 and l978 does not have to be renewed in order to
     receive a seventy-five-year term.  But any work not renewed before
     1964 is in the public domain.

     * Concerning whether or not the United States keeps track of when
     authors die, nothing was ever done, nor is anything being done at
     the moment by the Copyright Office.

     * Software that drives a mechanical process is itself copyrightable.
     If one changes platforms, the software itself has a copyright.  The
     World Intellectual Property Organization will hold a symposium 28
     March through 2 April l993, at Harvard University, on digital
     technology, and will study this entire issue.  If one purchases a
     computer software package, such as MacPaint, and creates something
     new, one receives protection only for that which has been added.

PETERS added that often in copyright matters, rough justice is the
outcome, for example, in collective licensing, ASCAP (i.e., American
Society of Composers, Authors, and Publishers), and BMI (i.e., Broadcast
Music, Inc.), where it may seem that the big guys receive more than their
due.  Of course, people ought not to copy a creative product without
paying for it; there should be some compensation.  But the truth of the
world, and it is not a great truth, is that the big guy gets played on
the radio more frequently than the little guy, who has to do much more
until he becomes a big guy.  That is true of every author, every
composer, everyone, and, unfortunately, is part of life.

Copyright always originates with the author, except in cases of works
made for hire.  (Most software falls into this category.)  When an author
sends his article to a journal, he has not relinquished copyright, though
he retains the right to relinquish it.  The author receives absolutely
everything.  The less prominent the author, the more leverage the
publisher will have in contract negotiations.  In order to transfer the
rights, the author must sign an agreement giving them away.

In an electronic society, it is important to be able to license a writer
and work out deals.  With regard to use of a work, it usually is much
easier when a publisher holds the rights.  In an electronic era, a real
problem arises when one is digitizing and making information available.
PETERS referred again to electronic licensing clearinghouses.  Copyright
ought to remain with the author, but as one moves forward globally in the
electronic arena, a middleman who can handle the various rights becomes
increasingly necessary.

The notion of copyright law is that it resides with the individual, but
in an on-line environment, where a work can be adapted and tinkered with
by many individuals, there is concern.  If changes are authorized and
there is no agreement to the contrary, the person who changes a work owns
the changes.  To put it another way, the person who acquires permission
to change a work technically will become the author and the owner, unless
some agreement to the contrary has been made.  It is typical for the
original publisher to try to control all of the versions and all of the
uses.  Copyright law always only sets up the boundaries.  Anything can be
changed by contract.

                                 ******

SESSION VII.  CONCLUSION

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
GENERAL DISCUSSION * Two questions for discussion * Different emphases in
the Workshop * Bringing the text and image partisans together *
Desiderata in planning the long-term development of something * Questions
surrounding the issue of electronic deposit * Discussion of electronic
deposit as an allusion to the issue of standards * Need for a directory
of preservation projects in digital form and for access to their
digitized files * CETH's catalogue of machine-readable texts in the
humanities * What constitutes a publication in the electronic world? *
Need for LC to deal with the concept of on-line publishing * LC's Network
Development Office  exploring the limits of MARC as a standard in terms
of handling electronic information * Magnitude of the problem and the
need for distributed responsibility in order to maintain and store
electronic information * Workshop participants to be viewed as a starting
point * Development of a network version of AM urged * A step toward AM's
construction of some sort of apparatus for network access * A delicate
and agonizing policy question for LC * Re the issue of electronic
deposit, LC urged to initiate a catalytic process in terms of distributed
responsibility * Suggestions for cooperative ventures * Commercial
publishers' fears * Strategic questions for getting the image and text
people to think through long-term cooperation * Clarification of the
driving force behind both the Perseus and the Cornell Xerox projects *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

In his role as moderator of the concluding session, GIFFORD raised two
questions he believed would benefit from discussion:  1) Are there enough
commonalities among those of us that have been here for two days so that
we can see courses of action that should be taken in the future?  And, if
so, what are they and who might take them?  2) Partly derivative from
that, but obviously very dangerous to LC as host, do you see a role for
the Library of Congress in all this?  Of course, the Library of Congress
holds a rather special status in a number of these matters, because it is
not perceived as a player with an economic stake in them, but are there
roles that LC can play that can help advance us toward where we are heading?

Describing himself as an uninformed observer of the technicalities of the
last two days, GIFFORD detected three different emphases in the Workshop:
1) people who are very deeply committed to text; 2) people who are almost
passionate about images; and 3) a few people who are very committed to
what happens to the networks.  In other words, the new networking
dimension, the accessibility of the processability, the portability of
all this across the networks.  How do we pull those three together?

Adding a question that reflected HOCKEY's comment that this was the
fourth workshop she had attended in the previous thirty days, FLEISCHHAUER
wondered to what extent this meeting had reinvented the wheel, or if it
had contributed anything in the way of bringing together a different group
of people from those who normally appear on the workshop circuit.

HOCKEY confessed to being struck at this meeting and the one the
Electronic Pierce Consortium organized the previous week that this was a
coming together of people working on texts and not images.  Attempting to
bring the two together is something we ought to be thinking about for the
future:  How one can think about working with image material to begin
with, but structuring it and digitizing it in such a way that at a later
stage it can be interpreted into text, and find a common way of building
text and images together so that they can be used jointly in the future,
with the network support to begin there because that is how people will
want to access it.

In planning the long-term development of something, which is what is
being done in electronic text, HOCKEY stressed the importance not only
of discussing the technical aspects of how one does it but particularly
of thinking about what the people who use the stuff will want to do.
But conversely, there are numerous things that people start to do with
electronic text or material that nobody ever thought of in the beginning.

LESK, in response to the question concerning the role of the Library of
Congress, remarked the often suggested desideratum of having electronic
deposit:  Since everything is now computer-typeset, an entire decade of
material that was machine-readable exists, but the publishers frequently
did not save it; has LC taken any action to have its copyright deposit
operation start collecting these machine-readable versions?  In the
absence of PETERS, GIFFORD replied that the question was being
actively considered but that that was only one dimension of the problem.
Another dimension is the whole question of the integrity of the original
electronic document.  It becomes highly important in science to prove
authorship.  How will that be done?

ERWAY explained that, under the old policy, to make a claim for a
copyright for works that were published in electronic form, including
software, one had to submit a paper copy of the first and last twenty
pages of code--something that represented the work but did not include
the entire work itself and had little value to anyone.  As a temporary
measure, LC has claimed the right to demand electronic versions of
electronic publications.  This measure entails a proactive role for the
Library to say that it wants a particular electronic version.  Publishers
then have perhaps a year to submit it.  But the real problem for LC is
what to do with all this material in all these different formats.  Will
the Library mount it?  How will it give people access to it?  How does LC
keep track of the appropriate computers, software, and media?  The situation
is so hard to control, ERWAY said, that it makes sense for each publishing
house to maintain its own archive.  But LC cannot enforce that either.

GIFFORD acknowledged LESK's suggestion that establishing a priority
offered the solution, albeit a fairly complicated one.  But who maintains
that register?, he asked.  GRABER noted that LC does attempt to collect a
Macintosh version and the IBM-compatible version of software.  It does
not collect other versions.  But while true for software, BYRUM observed,
this reply does not speak to materials, that is, all the materials that
were published that were on somebody's microcomputer or driver tapes
at a publishing office across the country.  LC does well to acquire
specific machine-readable products selectively that were intended to be
machine-readabOV.  NZGVIRZOH GSZG DVIV RM NZXSRMV-IVZWZYOV ULIN ZG LMV GRNV,
YBIFN HZRW, DLFOW YV YVBLMW OX'H XZKZYRORGB ZG GSV NLNVMG, RMHLUZI ZH
ZGGVNKGRMT GL ZXJFRIV, LITZMRAV, ZMW KIVHVIEV GSVN ZIV XLMXVIMVW--ZMW
KIVHVIEZGRLM DLFOW YV GSV NLHG RNKLIGZMG XLMHRWVIZGRLM.  RM GSRH
XLMMVXGRLM, TRUULIW IVRGVIZGVW GSV MVVW GL DLIP LFG HLNV HVMHV LU
WRHGIRYFGREV IVHKLMHRYRORGB ULI Z MFNYVI LU GSVHV RHHFVH, DSRXS
RMVERGZYOB DROO IVJFRIV HRTMRURXZMG XLLKVIZGRLM ZMW WRHXFHHRLM.
MLYLWB XZM WL RG ZOO.

OVHP HFTTVHGVW GSZG HLNV KFYORHSVIH NZB OLLP DRGS UZELI LM OX YVTRMMRMT
GL HVIEV ZH Z WVKLHRGLIB LU GZKVH RM ZM VOVXGILMRX NZMFHXIRKG HGZMWZIW.
KFYORHSVIH NZB ERVD GSRH ZH Z HVIERXV GSZG GSVB WRW MLG SZEV GL KVIULIN
ZMW GSVB NRTSG HVMW RM GZKVH.  SLDVEVI, HKVIYVIT-NXJFVVM XLFMGVIVW,
ZOGSLFTS KFYORHSVIH SZEV SZW VJFREZOVMG HVIERXVH ZEZROZYOV GL GSVN ULI Z
OLMT GRNV, GSV VOVXGILMRX GVCG ZIXSREV SZH MVEVI GFIMVW ZDZB LI YVVM
UOLLWVW DRGS GZKVH ZMW RH ULIVEVI HVMWRMT UVVWYZXP GL GSV WVKLHRGLI.
HLNV KFYORHSVIH WL HVMW RM GZKVH.

ZMWIV ERVDVW GSRH WRHXFHHRLM ZH ZM ZOOFHRLM GL GSV RHHFV LU HGZMWZIWH.
HSV IVXLNNVMWVW GSZG GSV ZZK HGZMWZIW ZMW GSV GVR, DSRXS SZH ZOIVZWB YVVM
HLNVDSZG SZINLMRAVW RMGVIMZGRLMZOOB ZMW DSRXS ZOHL HSZIVH HVEVIZO
XLNKZGRYRORGRVH DRGS GSV ZZK, YV SZINLMRAVW GL VMHFIV HFUURXRVMG
XLNKZGRYRORGB RM GSV HLUGDZIV.  HSV WIVD GSV ORMV ZG HZBRMT OX LFTSG GL
YV GSV OLXFH LI ULIFN ULI HFXS SZINLMRAZGRLM.

GZPRMT GSV TILFK RM Z HORTSGOB WRUUVIVMG WRIVXGRLM, YFG LMV DSVIV ZG
OVZHG RM GSV MVZI GVIN OX NRTSG KOZB Z SVOKUFO ILOV, OBMXS IVNZIPVW GSV
KOZMH LU Z MFNYVI LU KILQVXGH GL XZIIB LFG KIVHVIEZGRLM YB XIVZGRMT
WRTRGZO RNZTVH GSZG DROO VMW FK RM LM-ORMV LI MVZI-ORMV HGLIZTV ZG HLNV
RMHGRGFGRLM.   KIVHFNZYOB, OX DROO ORMP GSRH NZGVIRZO HLNVSLD GL RGH
LM-ORMV XZGZOLT RM NLHG XZHVH.  GSFH, RG RH RM Z WRTRGZO ULIN.  OBMXS SZW
GSV RNKIVHHRLM GSZG NZMB LU GSVHV RMHGRGFGRLMH DLFOW YV DROORMT GL NZPV
GSLHV UROVH ZXXVHHRYOV GL LGSVI KVLKOV LFGHRWV GSV RMHGRGFGRLM, KILERWVW
GSZG GSVIV RH ML XLKBIRTSG KILYOVN.  GSRH WVHRWVIZGFN DROO IVJFRIV
KILKZTZGRMT GSV PMLDOVWTV GSZG GSLHV WRTRGRAVW UROVH VCRHG, HL GSZG GSVB
XZM VMW FK RM LGSVI LM-ORMV XZGZOLTH.  ZOGSLFTS FMXVIGZRM ZYLFG GSV
NVXSZMRHN ULI ZXSRVERMT GSRH IVHFOG, OBMXS HZRW GSZG RG DZIIZMGVW
HXIFGRMB YVXZFHV RG HVVNVW GL YV XLMMVXGVW GL HLNV LU GSV YZHRX RHHFVH LU
XZGZOLTRMT ZMW WRHGIRYFGRLM LU IVXLIWH.  RG DLFOW YV  ULLORHS, TREVM GSV
ZNLFMG LU DLIP GSZG ZOO LU FH SZEV GL WL ZMW LFI NVZTVI IVHLFIXVH, GL
WRHXLEVI NFOGRKOV RMHGRGFGRLMH WRTRGRARMT GSV HZNV DLIP.  IV NRXILULINH,
OBMXS HZRW, DV ZIV RM KIVGGB TLLW HSZKV.

YZGGRM XZOOVW GSRH Z YRT KILYOVN ZMW MLGVW GSZG GSV XLIMVOO KVLKOV (DSL
SZW ZOIVZWB WVKZIGVW) DVIV DLIPRMT LM RG.  ZG RHHFV UILN GSV YVTRMMRMT
DZH GL OVZIM SLD GL XZGZOLT GSZG RMULINZGRLM RMGL IORM ZMW GSVM RMGL
LXOX, HL GSZG RG DLFOW YV ZXXVHHRYOV.  GSZG RHHFV IVNZRMH GL YV IVHLOEVW.
OBMXS IVQLRMVW GSZG KFGGRMT RG RMGL LXOX LI IORM DZH SVOKUFO RMHLUZI ZH
HLNVYLWB DSL RH GSRMPRMT LU KVIULINRMT KIVHVIEZGRLM ZXGRERGB LM GSZG DLIP
XLFOW OVZIM ZYLFG RG.  RG RH MLG MVXVHHZIROB SVOKUFO ULI RMHGRGFGRLMH GL
NZPV GSZG ZEZROZYOV.  YZGGRM LKRMVW GSZG GSV RWVZ DZH GSZG RG MLG LMOB YV
ULI KIVHVIEZGRLM KFIKLHVH YFG ULI GSV XLMEVMRVMXV LU KVLKOV OLLPRMT ULI
GSRH NZGVIRZO.  HSV VMWLIHVW OBMXS'H WRXGFN GSZG WFKORXZGRLM LU GSRH
VUULIG DZH GL YV ZELRWVW YB VEVIB NVZMH.

SLXPVB RMULINVW GSV DLIPHSLK ZYLFG LMV NZQLI XFIIVMG ZXGRERGB LU XVGS,
MZNVOB Z XZGZOLTFV LU NZXSRMV-IVZWZYOV GVCGH RM GSV SFNZMRGRVH.  SVOW LM
IORM ZG KIVHVMG, GSV XZGZOLTFV SZH YVVM XLMXVMGIZGVW LM ZHXRR ZH LKKLHVW
GL WRTRGRAVW RNZTVH LU GVCG.  HSV RH VCKOLIRMT DZBH GL RNKILEV GSV
XZGZOLTFV ZMW NZPV RG NLIV DRWVOB ZEZROZYOV, ZMW DVOXLNVW HFTTVHGRLMH
ZYLFG GSVHV XLMXVIMH.  XVGS LDMH GSV IVXLIWH, DSRXS ZIV MLG QFHG
IVHGIRXGVW GL IORM, ZMW XZM WRHGIRYFGV GSVN SLDVEVI RG DRHSVH.

GZPRMT FK OVHP'H VZIORVI JFVHGRLM, YZGGRM RMJFRIVW DSVGSVI OX, HRMXV RG
RH ZXXVKGRMT VOVXGILMRX UROVH ZMW WVHRTMRMT Z NVXSZMRHN ULI WVZORMT DRGS
GSZG IZGSVI GSZM KFGGRMT YLLPH LM HSVOEVH, DLFOW YVXLNV IVHKLMHRYOV ULI
GSV MZGRLMZO XLKBIRTSG WVKLHRGLIB LU VOVXGILMRX NZGVIRZOH.  LU XLFIHV
GSZG XLFOW MLG YV ZXXLNKORHSVW LEVIMRTSG, YFG RG DLFOW YV HLNVGSRMT OX
XLFOW KOZM ULI.  TRUULIW ZXPMLDOVWTVW GSZG NFXS GSLFTSG DZH YVRMT WVELGVW
GL GSZG HVG LU KILYOVNH ZMW IVGFIMVW GSV WRHXFHHRLM GL GSV RHHFV IZRHVW
YB OBMXS--DSVGSVI LI MLG KFGGRMT GSV PRMW LU IVXLIWH GSZG YLGS YZGGRM ZMW
SLXPVB SZEV YVVM GZOPRMT ZYLFG RM IORM RH MLG Z HZGRHUZXGLIB HLOFGRLM.
RG HVVNVW GL SRN GSZG IORM ZMHDVIVW OBMXS'H LIRTRMZO KLRMG XLMXVIMRMT
HLNV PRMW LU WRIVXGLIB ULI GSVHV PRMWH LU NZGVIRZOH.  RM Z HRGFZGRLM
DSVIV HLNVYLWB RH ZGGVNKGRMT GL WVXRWV DSVGSVI LI MLG GL HXZM GSRH LI
URON GSZG LI GL OVZIM DSVGSVI LI MLG HLNVLMV SZH ZOIVZWB WLMV HL, OBMXS
HFTTVHGVW, IORM RH SVOKUFO, YFG RG RH MLG SVOKUFO RM GSV XZHV LU Z OLXZO,
LM-ORMV XZGZOLTFV.  UFIGSVI, LMV DLFOW ORPV GL SZEV SVI LI SRH HBHGVN YV
ZDZIV GSZG GSZG VCRHGH RM WRTRGZO ULIN, HL GSZG LMV XZM KIVHVMG RG GL Z
KZGILM, VEVM GSLFTS LMV WRW MLG WRTRGRAV RG, RU RG RH LFG LU XLKBIRTSG.
GSV LMOB DZB GL NZPV GSLHV ORMPZTVH DLFOW YV GL KVIULIN Z GIVNVMWLFH
ZNLFMG LU IVZO-GRNV OLLP-FK, DSRXS DLFOW YV ZDPDZIW ZG YVHG, LI
KVIRLWRXZOOB GL BZMP GSV DSLOV UROV UILN IORM ZMW NZGXS RG ZTZRMHG LMV'H
LDM HGFUU, DSRXS RH Z MFRHZMXV.

YFG DSVIV, VIDZB RMJFRIVW, WLVH LMV HGLK RMXOFWRMT GSRMTH GSZG ZIV
ZEZROZYOV DRGS RMGVIMVG, ULI RMHGZMXV, RM LMV'H OLXZO XZGZOLTFV?
RG ZONLHG HVVNH GSZG GSZG RH OX'H NVZMH GL ZXJFRIV ZXXVHH GL GSVN.
GSZG IVKIVHVMGH OX'H MVD ULIN LU ORYIZIB OLZM.  KVISZKH OX'H MVD LM-ORMV
XZGZOLTFV RH ZM ZNZOTZNZGRLM LU ZOO GSVHV XZGZOLTFVH LM ORMV.  OBMXS
XLMXVWVW GSZG KVISZKH GSZG DZH GIFV RM GSV EVIB OLMT GVIN, YFG DZH MLG
ZKKORXZYOV GL HXZMMRMT RM GSV HSLIG GVIN.  RM SRH ERVD, GSV GLGZOH XRGVW
YB BZOV, 10,000 YLLPH LEVI KVISZKH Z ULFI-BVZI KVIRLW, ZMW 1,000-1,500
YLLPH UILN XLIMVOO, DVIV MLG YRT MFNYVIH, DSROV HVZIXSRMT ZOO LEVI
XIVZGRLM ULI IVOZGREVOB IZIV LXXFIIVMXVH DROO KILEV GL YV OVHH VUURXRVMG.
ZH TRUULIW DLMWVIVW RU GSRH DLFOW MLG YV Z HVKZIZYOV UROV LM IORM ZMW
XLFOW YV IVJFVHGVW UILN GSVN, YZGGRM RMGVIQVXGVW GSZG RG DZH VZHROB
ZXXVHHRYOV GL ZM RMHGRGFGRLM.  HVEVIGHLM KLRMGVW LFG GSZG GSZG UROV, XFN
VMSZMXVNVMGH, DZH ZEZROZYOV DRGS IVUVIVMXV RMULINZGRLM LM XW-ILN, DSRXS
NZPVH RG Z ORGGOV NLIV ZEZROZYOV.

RM SLXPVB'H ERVD, GSV IVZO JFVHGRLM UZXRMT GSV DLIPHSLK RH DSZG GL KFG RM
GSRH XZGZOLTFV, YVXZFHV GSZG IZRHVH GSV JFVHGRLM LU DSZG XLMHGRGFGVH Z
KFYORXZGRLM RM GSV VOVXGILMRX DLIOW.  (DVRYVO RMGVIQVXGVW GSZG VIRX QLFOV
RM LXOX'H LUURXV LU IVHVZIXS RH ZOHL DIVHGORMT DRGS GSRH KZIGRXFOZI
KILYOVN, DSROV TRUULIW GSLFTSG RG HLFMWVW UZRIOB TVMVIRX.)  SLXPVB
XLMGVMWVW GSZG Z NZQLIRGB LU GVCGH RM GSV SFNZMRGRVH ZIV RM GSV SZMWH
LU VRGSVI Z HNZOO MFNYVI LU OZITV IVHVZIXS RMHGRGFGRLMH LI RMWRERWFZOH
ZMW ZIV MLG TVMVIZOOB ZEZROZYOV ULI ZMBLMV VOHV GL ZXXVHH ZG ZOO.
HSV DLMWVIVW RU GSVHV GVCGH LFTSG GL YV XZGZOLTFVW.

ZUGVI ZITFNVMG KILXVVWVW YZXP ZMW ULIGS ULI HVEVIZO NRMFGVH LEVI DSB
XZGZOLTFRMT NRTSG YV Z MVXVHHZIB HVIERXV, OVYILM HFTTVHGVW GSZG GSRH
RHHFV RMELOEVW GSV IVHKLMHRYRORGB LU Z KFYORHSVI.  GSV UZXG GSZG HLNVLMV
SZH XIVZGVW HLNVGSRMT VOVXGILMRXZOOB ZMW PVVKH RG FMWVI SRH LI SVI
XLMGILO WLVH MLG XLMHGRGFGV KFYORXZGRLM.  KFYORXZGRLM RNKORVH
WRHHVNRMZGRLM.  DSROV RG DLFOW YV RNKLIGZMG ULI Z HXSLOZI GL OVG LGSVI
KVLKOV PMLD GSZG GSRH XIVZGRLM VCRHGH, RM NZMB IVHKVXGH GSRH RH ML
WRUUVIVMG UILN ZM FMKFYORHSVW NZMFHXIRKG.  GSZG RH DSZG RH YVRMT ZXXVHHVW
RM GSVIV, VCXVKG GSZG MLD LMV RH MLG OLLPRMT ZG RG RM GSV SZIW-XLKB YFG
RM GSV VOVXGILMRX VMERILMNVMG.

OVYILM VCKIVHHVW KFAAOVNVMG ZG GSV EZIRVGB LU DZBH VOVXGILMRX KFYORHSRMT
SZH YVVM ERVDVW.  NFXS LU DSZG SZH YVVM WRHXFHHVW GSILFTSLFG GSVHV GDL
WZBH SZH XLMXVIMVW XW-ILN KFYORHSRMT, DSVIVZH RM GSV LM-ORMV VMERILMNVMG
GSZG HSV XLMUILMGH, GSV XLMHGIZRMGH ZMW XSZOOVMTVH ZIV EVIB WRUUVIVMG.
HLLMVI LI OZGVI OX DROO SZEV GL WVZO DRGS GSV XLMXVKG LU LM-ORMV
KFYORHSRMT.  GZPRMT FK GSV XLNNVMG VIDZB NZWV VZIORVI ZYLFG HGLIRMT
XLKRVH, OVYILM TZEV SVI LDM QLFIMZO ZH ZM VCZNKOV.  SLD DLFOW HSV WVKLHRG
LQXXG ULI XLKBIRTSG?, HSV ZHPVW, YVXZFHV GSV QLFIMZO DROO VCRHG RM GSV
NZRMUIZNV ZG LXOX ZMW KVLKOV DROO YV ZYOV GL ZXXVHH RG.  SVIV GSV
HRGFZGRLM RH WRUUVIVMG, LDMVIHSRK EVIHFH ZXXVHH, ZMW RH HLNVGSRMT GSZG
ZIRHVH DRGS KFYORXZGRLM RM GSV LM-ORMV VMERILMNVMG, UZHGVI GSZM RH
HLNVGRNVH IVZORAVW.  OZXPRMT XOVZI ZMHDVIH GL ZOO LU GSVHV JFVHGRLMH
SVIHVOU, OVYILM WRW MLG ZMGRXRKZGV GSZG OX DLFOW YV ZYOV GL GZPV Z ILOV
RM SVOKRMT GL WVURMV HLNV LU GSVN ULI JFRGV Z DSROV.

TIVVMURVOW LYHVIEVW GSZG OX'H MVGDLIP WVEVOLKNVMG LUURXV RH ZGGVNKGRMT,
ZNLMT LGSVI GSRMTH, GL VCKOLIV GSV ORNRGH LU NZIX ZH Z HGZMWZIW RM GVINH
LU SZMWORMT VOVXGILMRX RMULINZGRLM.  TIVVMURVOW ZOHL MLGVW GSZG IVYVXXZ
TFVMGSVI UILN GSZG LUURXV TZEV Z KZKVI GL GSV ZNVIRXZM HLXRVGB ULI
RMULINZGRLM HXRVMXV (ZHRH) HFNNZIRARMT HVEVIZO LU GSV WRHXFHHRLM KZKVIH
GSZG DVIV XLNRMT LFG LU GSV MVGDLIP WVEVOLKNVMG LUURXV.  TIVVMURVOW HZRW
SV FMWVIHGLLW GSZG GSZG LUURXV SZW Z ORHG-HVIEVI HLORXRGRMT QFHG GSV PRMW
LU UVVWYZXP IVXVREVW GLWZB XLMXVIMRMT GSV WRUURXFOGRVH LU RWVMGRUBRMT ZMW
XZGZOLTFRMT VOVXGILMRX RMULINZGRLM.  TIVVMURVOW SLKVW GSZG VEVIBYLWB
DLFOW YV ZDZIV LU GSZG ZMW HLNVSLD XLMGIRYFGV GL GSZG XLMEVIHZGRLM.

MLGRMT GDL LU OX'H ILOVH, URIHG, GL ZXG ZH Z IVKLHRGLIB LU IVXLIW ULI
NZGVIRZO GSZG RH XLKBIRTSGVW RM GSRH XLFMGIB, ZMW HVXLMW, GL NZPV
NZGVIRZOH RG SLOWH ZEZROZYOV RM HLNV ORNRGVW ULIN GL Z XORVMGVOV GSZG
TLVH YVBLMW XLMTIVHH, YVHHVI HFTTVHGVW GSZG RG DZH RMXFNYVMG LM OX GL
VCGVMW GSLHV IVHKLMHRYRORGRVH GL ZOO GSV GSRMTH YVRMT KFYORHSVW RM
VOVXGILMRX ULIN.  GSRH DLFOW NVZM VEVMGFZOOB ZXXVKGRMT VOVXGILMRX
ULINZGH.  OX XLFOW IVJFRIV GSZG ZG HLNV KLRMG GSVB YV RM Z XVIGZRM
ORNRGVW HVG LU ULINZGH, ZMW GSVM WVEVOLK NVXSZMRHNH ULI ZOOLDRMT KVLKOV
GL ZXXVHH GSLHV RM GSV HZNV DZB GSZG LGSVI GSRMTH ZIV ZXXVHHVW.  GSRH
WLVH MLG RNKOB GSZG GSVB ZIV LM GSV MVGDLIP ZMW ZEZROZYOV GL VEVIBLMV.
OX WLVH GSZG DRGS NLHG LU RGH YRYORLTIZKSRX IVXLIWH, YVHHVI HZRW, DSRXS
VMW FK NRTIZGRMT GL GSV FGRORGB (V.T., LXOX) LI HLNVDSVIV VOHV.  YFG QFHG
