loan or some other mechanism, so in the same way electronic formats ought
to be available to others in some format, though with some copyright
considerations.  BESSER was not suggesting that these mechanisms be
established tomorrow, only that they seemed to fall within LC's purview,
and that there should be long-range plans to establish them.

Acknowledging that those from LC in the room agreed with BESSER
concerning the need to confront difficult questions, GIFFORD underscored
the magnitude of the problem of what to keep and what to select.  GIFFORD
noted that LC currently receives some 31,000 items per day, not counting
electronic materials, and argued for much more distributed responsibility
in order to maintain and store electronic information.

BESSER responded that the assembled group could be viewed as a starting
point, whose initial operating premise could be helping to move in this
direction and defining how LC could do so, for example, in areas of
standardization or distribution of responsibility.

FLEISCHHAUER added that AM was fully engaged, wrestling with some of the
questions that pertain to the conversion of older historical materials,
which would be one thing that the Library of Congress might do.  Several
points mentioned by BESSER and several others on this question have a
much greater impact on those who are concerned with cataloguing and the
networking of bibliographic information, as well as preservation itself.

Speaking directly to AM, which he considered was a largely uncopyrighted
database, LYNCH urged development of a network version of AM, or
consideration of making the data in it available to people interested in
doing network multimedia.  On account of the current great shortage of
digital data that is both appealing and unencumbered by complex rights
problems, this course of action could have a significant effect on making
network multimedia a reality.

In this connection, FLEISCHHAUER reported on a fragmentary prototype in
LC's Office of Information Technology Services that attempts to associate
digital images of photographs with cataloguing information in ways that
work within a local area network--a step, so to say, toward AM's
construction of some sort of apparatus for access.  Further, AM has
attempted to use standard data forms in order to help make that
distinction between the access tools and the underlying data, and thus
believes that the database is networkable.

A delicate and agonizing policy question for LC, however, which comes
back to resources and unfortunately has an impact on this, is to find
some appropriate, honorable, and legal cost-recovery possibilities.  A
certain skittishness concerning cost-recovery has made people unsure
exactly what to do.  AM would be highly receptive to discussing further
LYNCH's offer to test or demonstrate its database in a network
environment, FLEISCHHAUER said.

Returning the discussion to what she viewed as the vital issue of
electronic deposit, BATTIN recommended that LC initiate a catalytic
process in terms of distributed responsibility, that is, bring together
the distributed organizations and set up a study group to look at all
these issues and see where we as a nation should move.  The broader
issues of how we deal with the management of electronic information will
not disappear, but only grow worse.

LESK took up this theme and suggested that LC attempt to persuade one
major library in each state to deal with its state equivalent publisher,
which might produce a cooperative project that would be equitably
distributed around the country, and one in which LC would be dealing with
a minimal number of publishers and minimal copyright problems.

GRABER remarked the recent development in the scientific community of a
willingness to use SGML and either deposit or interchange on a fairly
standardized format.  He wondered if a similar movement was taking place
in the humanities.  Although the National Library of Medicine found only
a few publishers to cooperate in a like venture two or three years ago, a
new effort might generate a much larger number willing to cooperate.

KIMBALL recounted his unit's (Machine-Readable Collections Reading Room)
troubles with the commercial publishers of electronic media in acquiring
materials for LC's collections, in particular the publishers' fear that
they would not be able to cover their costs and would lose control of
their products, that LC would give them away or sell them and make
profits from them.  He doubted that the publishing industry was prepared
to move into this area at the moment, given its resistance to allowing LC
to use its machine-readable materials as the Library would like.

The copyright law now addresses compact disk as a medium, and LC can
request one copy of that, or two copies if it is the only version, and
can request copies of software, but that fails to address magazines or
books or anything like that which is in machine-readable form.

GIFFORD acknowledged the thorny nature of this issue, which he illustrated
with the example of the cumbersome process involved in putting a copy of a
scientific database on a LAN in LC's science reading room.  He also
acknowledged that LC needs help and could enlist the energies and talents
of Workshop participants in thinking through a number of these problems.

GIFFORD returned the discussion to getting the image and text people to
think through together where they want to go in the long term.  MYLONAS
conceded that her experience at the Pierce Symposium the previous week at
Georgetown University and this week at LC had forced her to reevaluate
her perspective on the usefulness of text as images.  MYLONAS framed the
issues in a series of questions:  How do we acquire machine-readable
text?  Do we take pictures of it and perform OCR on it later?  Is it
important to obtain very high-quality images and text, etc.?
FLEISCHHAUER agreed with MYLONAS's framing of strategic questions, adding
that a large institution such as LC probably has to do all of those
things at different times.  Thus, the trick is to exercise judgment.  The
Workshop had added to his and AM's considerations in making those
judgments.  Concerning future meetings or discussions, MYLONAS suggested
that screening priorities would be helpful.

WEIBEL opined that the diversity reflected in this group was a sign both
of the health and of the immaturity of the field, and more time would
have to pass before we convince one another concerning standards.

An exchange between MYLONAS and BATTIN clarified the point that the
driving force behind both the Perseus and the Cornell Xerox projects was
the preservation of knowledge for the future, not simply for particular
research use.  In the case of Perseus, MYLONAS said, the assumption was
that the texts would not be entered again into electronically readable
form.  SPERBERG-McQUEEN added that a scanned image would not serve as an
archival copy for purposes of preservation in the case of, say, the Bill
of Rights, in the sense that the scanned images are effectively the
archival copies for the Cornell mathematics books.


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                          Appendix I:  PROGRAM



                                WORKSHOP
                                   ON
                               ELECTRONIC
                                  TEXTS



                             9-10 June 1992

                           Library of Congress
                            Washington, D.C.



    Supported by a Grant from the David and Lucile Packard Foundation


Tuesday, 9 June 1992

NATIONAL DEMONSTRATION LAB, ATRIUM, LIBRARY MADISON

8:30 AM   Coffee and Danish, registration

9:00 AM   Welcome

          Prosser Gifford, Director for Scholarly Programs, and Carl
             Fleischhauer, Coordinator, American Memory, Library of
             Congress

9:l5 AM   Session I.  Content in a New Form:  Who Will Use It and What
          Will They Do?

          Broad description of the range of electronic information.
          Characterization of who uses it and how it is or may be used.
          In addition to a look at scholarly uses, this session will
          include a presentation on use by students (K-12 and college)
          and the general public.

          Moderator:  James Daly
          Avra Michelson, Archival Research and Evaluation Staff,
             National Archives and Records Administration (Overview)
          Susan H. Veccia, Team Leader, American Memory, User Evaluation,
             and
          Joanne Freeman, Associate Coordinator, American Memory, Library
             of Congress (Beyond the scholar)

10:30-
11:00 AM  Break

11:00 AM  Session II.  Show and Tell.

          Each presentation to consist of a fifteen-minute
          statement/show; group discussion will follow lunch.

          Moderator:  Jacqueline Hess, Director, National Demonstration
             Lab

            1.  A classics project, stressing texts and text retrieval
                more than multimedia:  Perseus Project, Harvard
                University
                Elli Mylonas, Managing Editor

            2.  Other humanities projects employing the emerging norms of
                the Text Encoding Initiative (TEI):  Chadwyck-Healey's
                The English Poetry Full Text Database and/or Patrologia
                Latina Database
                Eric M. Calaluca, Vice President, Chadwyck-Healey, Inc.

            3.  American Memory
                Carl Fleischhauer, Coordinator, and
                Ricky Erway, Associate Coordinator, Library of Congress

            4.  Founding Fathers example from Packard Humanities
                Institute:  The Papers of George Washington, University
                of Virginia
                Dorothy Twohig, Managing Editor, and/or
                David Woodley Packard

            5.  An electronic medical journal offering graphics and
                full-text searchability:  The Online Journal of Current
                Clinical Trials, American Association for the Advancement
                of Science
                Maria L. Lebron, Managing Editor

            6.  A project that offers facsimile images of pages but omits
                searchable text:  Cornell math books
                Lynne K. Personius, Assistant Director, Cornell
                   Information Technologies for Scholarly Information
                   Sources, Cornell University

12:30 PM  Lunch  (Dining Room A, Library Madison 620.  Exhibits
          available.)

1:30 PM   Session II.  Show and Tell (Cont'd.).

3:00-
3:30 PM   Break

3:30-
5:30 PM   Session III.  Distribution, Networks, and Networking:  Options
          for Dissemination.

          Published disks:  University presses and public-sector
             publishers, private-sector publishers
          Computer networks

          Moderator:  Robert G. Zich, Special Assistant to the Associate
             Librarian for Special Projects, Library of Congress
          Clifford A. Lynch, Director, Library Automation, University of
             California
          Howard Besser, School of Library and Information Science,
             University of Pittsburgh
          Ronald L. Larsen, Associate Director of Libraries for
             Information Technology, University of Maryland at College
             Park
          Edwin B. Brownrigg, Executive Director, Memex Research
             Institute

6:30 PM   Reception  (Montpelier Room, Library Madison 619.)

                                 ******

Wednesday, 10 June 1992

DINING ROOM A, LIBRARY MADISON 620

8:30 AM   Coffee and Danish

9:00 AM   Session IV.  Image Capture, Text Capture, Overview of Text and
          Image Storage Formats.

          Moderator:  William L. Hooton, Vice President of Operations,
             I-NET

          A) Principal Methods for Image Capture of Text:
             Direct scanning
             Use of microform

          Anne R. Kenney, Assistant Director, Department of Preservation
             and Conservation, Cornell University
          Pamela Q.J. Andre, Associate Director, Automation, and
          Judith A. Zidar, Coordinator, National Agricultural Text
             Digitizing Program (NATDP), National Agricultural Library
             (NAL)
          Donald J. Waters, Head, Systems Office, Yale University Library

          B) Special Problems:
             Bound volumes
             Conservation
             Reproducing printed halftones

          Carl Fleischhauer, Coordinator, American Memory, Library of
             Congress
          George Thoma, Chief, Communications Engineering Branch,
             National Library of Medicine (NLM)

10:30-
11:00 AM  Break

11:00 AM  Session IV.  Image Capture, Text Capture, Overview of Text and
          Image Storage Formats (Cont'd.).

          X) RNZTV HGZMWZIWH ZMW RNKORXZGRLMH ULI KIVHVIEZGRLM

          QVZM YZILMZH, HVMRLI NZMZTVI, WVKZIGNVMG LU HGZMWZIWH ZMW
             GVXSMLOLTB, ZHHLXRZGRLM ULI RMULINZGRLM ZMW RNZTV NZMZTVNVMG
             (ZRRN)
          KZGIRXRZ YZGGRM, KIVHRWVMG, GSV XLNNRHHRLM LM KIVHVIEZGRLM ZMW
             ZXXVHH (XKZ)

          W) GVCG XLMEVIHRLM:
             LXI EH. IVPVBRMT
             HGZMWZIWH LU ZXXFIZXB ZMW FHV LU RNKVIUVXG GVCGH
             HVIERXV YFIVZFH

          HGFZIG DVRYVO, HVMRLI IVHVZIXS HKVXRZORHG, LMORMV XLNKFGVI
             ORYIZIB XVMGVI, RMX. (LXOX)
          NRXSZVO OVHP, VCVXFGREV WRIVXGLI, XLNKFGVI HXRVMXV IVHVZIXS,
             YVOOXLIV
          IRXPB VIDZB, ZHHLXRZGV XLLIWRMZGLI, ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB, ORYIZIB LU
             XLMTIVHH
          KZNVOZ J.Q. ZMWIV, ZHHLXRZGV WRIVXGLI, ZFGLNZGRLM, ZMW
          QFWRGS Z. ARWZI, XLLIWRMZGLI, MZGRLMZO ZTIRXFOGFIZO GVCG
             WRTRGRARMT KILTIZN (MZGWK), MZGRLMZO ZTIRXFOGFIZO ORYIZIB
             (MZO)

12:30-
1:30 KN   OFMXS

1:30 KN   HVHHRLM E.  ZKKILZXSVH GL KIVKZIRMT VOVXGILMRX GVCGH.

          WRHXFHHRLM LU ZKKILZXSVH GL HGIFXGFIRMT GVCG ULI GSV XLNKFGVI;
          KILH ZMW XLMH LU GVCG XLWRMT, WVHXIRKGRLM LU NVGSLWH RM
          KIZXGRXV, ZMW XLNKZIRHLM LU GVCG-XLWRMT NVGSLWH.

          NLWVIZGLI:  HFHZM SLXPVB, WRIVXGLI, XVMGVI ULI VOVXGILMRX GVCGH
             RM GSV SFNZMRGRVH (XVGS), IFGTVIH ZMW KIRMXVGLM FMREVIHRGRVH
          WZERW DLLWOVB KZXPZIW
          X.N. HKVIYVIT-NXJFVVM, VWRGLI, GVCG VMXLWRMT RMRGRZGREV (GVR),
             FMREVIHRGB LU ROORMLRH-XSRXZTL
          VIRX N. XZOZOFXZ, ERXV KIVHRWVMG, XSZWDBXP-SVZOVB, RMX.

3:30-
4:00 KN   YIVZP

4:00 KN   HVHHRLM ER.  XLKBIRTSG RHHFVH.

          NZIBYVGS KVGVIH, KLORXB KOZMMRMT ZWERHVI GL GSV IVTRHGVI LU
             XLKBIRTSGH, ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH

5:00 KN   HVHHRLM ERR. XLMXOFHRLM.

          TVMVIZO WRHXFHHRLM.
          DSZG GLKRXH DVIV LNRGGVW LI TREVM HSLIG HSIRUG GSZG ZMBLMV
             DLFOW ORPV GL GZOP ZYLFG MLD?
          RH GSVIV Z "TILFK" SVIV?  DSZG HSLFOW GSV TILFK WL MVCG, RU
             ZMBGSRMT?  DSZG HSLFOW GSV ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH WL MVCG, RU
             ZMBGSRMT?
          NLWVIZGLI:  KILHHVI TRUULIW, WRIVXGLI ULI HXSLOZIOB KILTIZNH,
             ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH

6:00 KN   ZWQLFIM


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                         ZKKVMWRC RR:  ZYHGIZXGH


HVHHRLM R

ZEIZ NRXSVOHLM           ULIVXZHGRMT GSV FHV LU VOVXGILMRX GVCGH YB
                         HLXRZO HXRVMXVH ZMW SFNZMRGRVH HXSLOZIH

GSRH KIVHVMGZGRLM VCKOLIVH GSV DZBH RM DSRXS VOVXGILMRX GVCGH ZIV ORPVOB
GL YV FHVW YB GSV MLM-HXRVMGRURX HXSLOZIOB XLNNFMRGB.  NZMB LU GSV
IVNZIPH ZIV WIZDM UILN Z IVKLIG GSV HKVZPVI XLZFGSLIVW DRGS QVUU
ILGSVMYVIT, Z XLNKFGVI HXRVMGRHG ZG GSV IZMW XLIKLIZGRLM.

GSV HKVZPVI ZHHVHHVH 1) XFIIVMG HXSLOZIOB FHV LU RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTB
ZMW 2) GSV PVB GIVMWH RM RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTB NLHG IVOVEZMG GL GSV
IVHVZIXS KILXVHH, RM LIWVI GL KIVWRXG SLD HLXRZO HXRVMXVH ZMW SFNZMRGRVH
HXSLOZIH ZIV ZKG GL FHV VOVXGILMRX GVCGH.  RM RMGILWFXRMT GSV GLKRX,
XFIIVMG FHV LU VOVXGILMRX GVCGH RH VCKOLIVW YILZWOB DRGSRM GSV XLMGVCG LU
HXSLOZIOB XLNNFMRXZGRLM.  UILN GSV KVIHKVXGREV LU HXSLOZIOB
XLNNFMRXZGRLM, GSV DLIP LU SFNZMRGRVH ZMW HLXRZO HXRVMXVH HXSLOZIH
RMELOEVH UREV KILXVHHVH:  1) RWVMGRURXZGRLM LU HLFIXVH, 2) XLNNFMRXZGRLM
DRGS XLOOVZTFVH, 3) RMGVIKIVGZGRLM ZMW ZMZOBHRH LU WZGZ, 4) WRHHVNRMZGRLM
LU IVHVZIXS URMWRMTH, ZMW 5) XFIIRXFOFN WVEVOLKNVMG ZMW RMHGIFXGRLM.  GSV
VCGVMG GL DSRXS XLNKFGZGRLM XFIIVMGOB KVINVZGVH ZHKVXGH LU HXSLOZIOB
XLNNFMRXZGRLM IVKIVHVMGH Z ERZYOV RMWRXZGLI LU GSV KILHKVXGH ULI
VOVXGILMRX GVCGH.

GSV WRHXFHHRLM LU XFIIVMG KIZXGRXV RH YZOZMXVW YB ZM ZMZOBHRH LU PVB
GIVMWH RM GSV HXSLOZIOB FHV LU RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTB.  GSVHV RMXOFWV GSV
GIVMWH GLDZIW VMW-FHVI XLNKFGRMT ZMW XLMMVXGRERGB, DSRXS KILERWV Z
UIZNVDLIP ULI ULIVXZHGRMT GSV FHV LU VOVXGILMRX GVCGH GSILFTS GSRH
NROOVMMRFN.  GSV KIVHVMGZGRLM XLMXOFWVH DRGS Z HFNNZIB LU GSV DZBH RM
DSRXS GSV MLMHXRVMGRURX HXSLOZIOB XLNNFMRGB XZM YV VCKVXGVW GL FHV
VOVXGILMRX GVCGH, ZMW GSV RNKORXZGRLMH LU GSZG FHV ULI RMULINZGRLM
KILERWVIH.

HFHZM EVXXRZ ZMW QLZMMV UIVVNZM    VOVXGILMRX ZIXSREVH ULI GSV KFYORX:
                                   FHV LU ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB RM KFYORX ZMW
                                   HXSLLO ORYIZIRVH

GSRH QLRMG WRHXFHHRLM ULXFHVH LM MLMHXSLOZIOB ZKKORXZGRLMH LU VOVXGILMRX
ORYIZIB NZGVIRZOH, HKVXRURXZOOB ZWWIVHHRMT FHV LU GSV ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH
ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB (ZN) KILTIZN RM Z HNZOO MFNYVI LU KFYORX ZMW HXSLLO
ORYIZIRVH GSILFTSLFG GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH.  ZN XLMHRHGH LU HVOVXGVW ORYIZIB
LU XLMTIVHH KIRNZIB ZIXSREZO NZGVIRZOH, HGLIVW LM LKGRXZO NVWRZ
(XW-ILN/ERWVLWRHX), ZMW KIVHVMGVW DRGS ORGGOV LI ML VWRGRMT.  NZMB
XLOOVXGRLMH ZIV ZXXLNKZMRVW YB VOVXGILMRX RMGILWFXGRLMH ZMW FHVI'H TFRWVH
LUUVIRMT YZXPTILFMW RMULINZGRLM ZMW SRHGLIRXZO XLMGVCG.  XLOOVXGRLMH
IVKIVHVMG Z EZIRVGB LU ULINZGH RMXOFWRMT KSLGLTIZKSH, TIZKSRX ZIGH,
NLGRLM KRXGFIVH, IVXLIWVW HLFMW, NFHRX, YILZWHRWVH ZMW NZMFHXIRKGH,
YLLPH, ZMW KZNKSOVGH.

RM 1991, GSV ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH YVTZM Z MZGRLMDRWV VEZOFZGRLM LU ZN RM
WRUUVIVMG GBKVH LU RMHGRGFGRLMH.  GVHG HRGVH RMXOFWV KFYORX ORYIZIRVH,
VOVNVMGZIB ZMW HVXLMWZIB HXSLLO ORYIZIRVH, XLOOVTV ZMW FMREVIHRGB
ORYIZIRVH, HGZGV ORYIZIRVH, ZMW HKVXRZO ORYIZIRVH.  HFHZM EVXXRZ ZMW
QLZMMV UIVVNZM DROO WRHXFHH GSVRI LYHVIEZGRLMH LM GSV FHV LU ZN YB GSV
MLMHXSLOZIOB XLNNFMRGB, FHRMT VERWVMXV TOVZMVW UILN GSRH LMTLRMT
VEZOFZGRLM VUULIG.

EVXXRZ DROO XLNNVMG LM GSV LEVIZOO TLZOH LU GSV VEZOFZGRLM KILQVXG, ZMW
GSV GBKVH LU KFYORX ZMW HXSLLO ORYIZIRVH RMXOFWVW RM GSRH HGFWB.  SVI
XLNNVMGH LM MLMHXSLOZIOB FHV LU ZN DROO ULXFH LM GSV KFYORX ORYIZIB ZH Z
XFOGFIZO ZMW XLNNFMRGB RMHGRGFGRLM, LUGVM YIRWTRMT GSV TZK YVGDVVM ULINZO
ZMW RMULINZO VWFXZGRLM.  UIVVNZM DROO WRHXFHH GSV FHV LU ZN RM HXSLLO
ORYIZIRVH.  FHV YB HGFWVMGH ZMW GVZXSVIH SZH IVEVZOVW HLNV YILZW
JFVHGRLMH ZYLFG GSV FHV LU VOVXGILMRX IVHLFIXVH, ZH DVOO ZH WVURMRGV
YVMVURGH TZRMVW YB GSV "MLMHXSLOZI."  GLKRXH DROO RMXOFWV GSV KILYOVN LU
TIZHKRMT XLMGVMG ZMW XLMGVCG RM ZM VOVXGILMRX VMERILMNVMG, GSV HGFNYORMT
YOLXPH XIVZGVW YB "MVD" GVXSMLOLTRVH, ZMW GSV FMRJFV HPROOH ZMW RMGVIVHGH
ZDZPVMVW GSILFTS FHV LU VOVXGILMRX IVHLFIXVH.

HVHHRLM RR

VOOR NBOLMZH             GSV KVIHVFH KILQVXG:  RMGVIZXGREV HLFIXVH ZMW
                         HGFWRVH RM XOZHHRXZO TIVVXV

GSV KVIHVFH KILQVXG (5) SZH QFHG IVOVZHVW KVIHVFH 1.0, GSV URIHG KFYORXOB
ZEZROZYOV EVIHRLM LU RGH SBKVIGVCGFZO WZGZYZHV LU NFOGRNVWRZ NZGVIRZOH LM
XOZHHRXZO TIVVXV.  KVIHVFH RH WVHRTMVW GL YV FHVW YB Z DRWV ZFWRVMXV,
XLNKIRHVW LU IVZWVIH ZG GSV HGFWVMG ZMW HXSLOZI OVEVOH.  ZH HFXS, RG NFHG
YV ZYOV GL OLXZGV RMULINZGRLM FHRMT WRUUVIVMG HGIZGVTRVH, ZMW RG NFHG
XLMGZRM VMLFTS WVGZRO GL HVIEV GSV WRUUVIVMG MVVWH LU RGH FHVIH.  RM
ZWWRGRLM, RG NFHG YV WVOREVIVW HL GSZG RG RH ZUULIWZYOV GL RGH GZITVG
ZFWRVMXV.  [GSVHV KILYOVNH ZMW GSV HLOFGRLMH DV XSLHV ZIV WVHXIRYVW RM
NBOLMZH, "ZM RMGVIUZXV GL XOZHHRXZO TIVVP XRERORAZGRLM," QZHRH 43:2,
NZIXS 1992.]

RM LIWVI GL ZXSRVEV RGH LYQVXGREV, GSV KILQVXG HGZUU WVXRWVW GL NZPV Z
XLMHXRLFH HVKZIZGRLM YVGDVVM HVOVXGRMT ZMW XLMEVIGRMT GVCGFZO, WZGZYZHV,
ZMW RNZTV WZGZ LM GSV LMV SZMW, ZMW KFGGRMT RG RMGL Z WVOREVIB HBHGVN LM
GSV LGSVI.  GSZG DZB, RG RH KLHHRYOV GL XIVZGV GSV VOVXGILMRX WZGZ
DRGSLFG GSRMPRMT ZYLFG GSV IVHGIRXGRLMH LU GSV WVOREVIB HBHGVN.  DV SZEV
NZWV Z TIVZG VUULIG GL XSLLHV HBHGVN-RMWVKVMWVMG ULINZGH ULI LFI WZGZ,
ZMW GL KFG ZH NFXS GSLFTSG ZMW DLIP ZH KLHHRYOV RMGL HGIFXGFIRMT RG HL
GSZG GSV GIZMHOZGRLM UILN KZKVI GL VOVXGILMRX ULIN DROO VMSZMXV GSV EZOFV
LU GSV WZGZ. [Z WRHXFHHRLM LU GSVHV HLOFGRLMH ZH LU GDL BVZIH ZTL RH RM
VOOR NBOLMZH, TIVTLIB XIZMV, PVMMVGS NLIIVOO, ZMW W. MVVO HNRGS, "GSV
KVIHVFH KILQVXG:  WZGZ RM GSV VOVXGILMRX ZTV," RM ZXXVHHRMT ZMGRJFRGB:
GSV XLNKFGVIRAZGRLM LU XOZHHRXZO WZGZYZHVH, Q. HLOLNLM ZMW G. DLIGSVM
(VWH.),  FMREVIHRGB LU ZIRALMZ KIVHH, RM KIVHH.]

NFXS LU GSV DLIP LM KVIHVFH RH ULXFHVW LM XLOOVXGRMT ZMW XLMEVIGRMT GSV
WZGZ LM DSRXS GSV KILQVXG RH YZHVW.  ZG GSV HZNV GRNV, RG RH MVXVHHZIB GL
KILERWV NVZMH LU ZXXVHH GL GSV RMULINZGRLM, RM LIWVI GL NZPV RG FHZYOV,
ZMW GSVN GL RMEVHGRTZGV SLD RG RH FHVW.  ZH DV OVZIM NLIV ZYLFG DSZG
HGFWVMGH ZMW HXSLOZIH UILN WRUUVIVMG YZXPTILFMWH WL DRGS KVIHVFH, DV XZM
ZWQFHG LFI WZGZ XLOOVXGRLM, ZMW ZOHL NLWRUB GSV HBHGVN GL ZXXLNNLWZGV
GSVN.  RM XIVZGRMT Z WVOREVIB HBHGVN ULI TVMVIZO FHV, DV SZEV GIRVW GL
ZELRW UZELIRMT ZMB LMV GBKV LU FHV YB ZOOLDRMT NFOGRKOV ULINH LU ZXXVHH
GL ZMW MZERTZGRLM GSILFTS GSV HBHGVN.

GSV DZB GVCG RH SZMWOVW VCVNKORURVH HLNV LU GSVHV KIRMXRKOVH.  ZOO GVCG
RM KVIHVFH RH GZTTVW FHRMT HTNO, ULOOLDRMT GSV TFRWVORMVH LU GSV GVCG
VMXLWRMT RMRGRZGREV (GVR).  GSRH NZIPFK RH FHVW GL RMWVC GSV GVCG, ZMW
KILXVHH RG HL GSZG RG XZM YV RNKLIGVW RMGL SBKVIXZIW.  ML HTNO NZIPFK
IVNZRMH RM GSV GVCG GSZG IVZXSVH GSV FHVI, YVXZFHV XFIIVMGOB RG DLFOW YV
GLL VCKVMHREV GL XIVZGV Z HBHGVN GSZG ZXGH LM HTNO RM IVZO GRNV.
SLDVEVI, GSV IVTFOZIRGB KILERWVW YB HTNO RH VHHVMGRZO ULI EVIRUBRMT GSV
XLMGVMG LU GSV GVCGH, ZMW TIVZGOB HKVVWH ZOO GSV KILXVHHRMT KVIULINVW LM
GSVN.  GSV UZXG GSZG GSV GVCGH VCRHG RM HTNO VMHFIVH GSZG GSVB DROO YV
IVOZGREVOB VZHB GL KLIG GL WRUUVIVMG SZIWDZIV ZMW HLUGDZIV, ZMW HL DROO
LFGOZHG GSV XFIIVMG WVOREVIB KOZGULIN.  URMZOOB, GSV HTNO NZIPFK
RMXLIKLIZGVH VCRHGRMT XZMLMRXZO IVUVIVMXV HBHGVNH (XSZKGVI, EVIHV, ORMV,
VGX.); RMWVCRMT ZMW MZERTZGRLM ZIV YZHVW LM GSVHV UVZGFIVH.  GSRH VMHFIVH
GSZG GSV HZNV XZMLMRXZO IVUVIVMXV DROO ZODZBH IVHLOEV GL GSV HZNV KLRMG
DRGSRM Z GVCG, ZMW GSZG ZOO EVIHRLMH LU LFI GVCGH, IVTZIWOVHH LU WVOREVIB
KOZGULIN (VEVM KZKVI KIRMGLFGH) DROO UFMXGRLM GSV HZNV DZB.

RM LIWVI GL KILERWV GLLOH ULI FHVIH, GSV GVCG RH KILXVHHVW YB Z
NLIKSLOLTRXZO ZMZOBAVI, ZMW GSV IVHFOGH ZIV HGLIVW RM Z WZGZYZHV.
GLTVGSVI DRGS GSV RMWVC, GSV TIVVP-VMTORHS OVCRXLM, ZMW GSV RMWVC LU ZOO
GSV VMTORHS DLIWH RM GSV WVURMRGRLMH LU GSV OVCRXLM, GSV NLIKSLOLTRXZO
ZMZOBHVH XLNKIRHV Z HVG LU ORMTFRHGRX GLLOH GSZG ZOOLD FHVIH LU ZOO
OVEVOH GL DLIP DRGS GSV GVCGFZO RMULINZGRLM, ZMW GL ZXXLNKORHS WRUUVIVMG
GZHPH.  ULI VCZNKOV, HGFWVMGH DSL IVZW ML TIVVP NZB VCKOLIV Z XLMXVKG ZH
RG ZKKVZIH RM TIVVP GVCGH YB FHRMT GSV VMTORHS-TIVVP RMWVC, ZMW GSVM
OLLPRMT FK DLIPH RM GSV GVCGH ZMW GIZMHOZGRLMH, LI HXSLOZIH NZB WL
WVGZROVW NLIKSLOLTRXZO HGFWRVH LU DLIW FHV YB FHRMT GSV NLIKSLOLTRXZO
ZMZOBHVH LU GSV GVCGH.  YVXZFHV GSVHV GLLOH DVIV MLG WVHRTMVW ULI ZMB LMV
FHV, GSV HZNV GLLOH ZMW GSV HZNV WZGZ XZM YV FHVW YB YLGS HGFWVMGH ZMW
HXSLOZIH.

MLGVH:
