     several other universities.  The project has been funded primarily
     by the Annenberg/CPB Project, as well as by Harvard University,
     Apple Computer, and others.  It is published by Yale University
     Press.  Perseus runs on Macintosh computers, under the HyperCard
     program.

Eric CALALUCA

Chadwyck-Healey embarked last year on two distinct yet related full-text
humanities database projects.

The English Poetry Full-Text Database and the Patrologia Latina Database
represent new approaches to linguistic research resources.  The size and
complexity of the projects present problems for electronic publishers,
but surmountable ones if they remain abreast of the latest possibilities
in data capture and retrieval software techniques.

The issues which required address prior to the commencement of the
projects were legion:

     1.   Editorial selection (or exclusion) of materials in each
          database

     2.   Deciding whether or not to incorporate a normative encoding
          structure into the databases?
               A.  If one is selected, should it be SGML?
               B.  If SGML, then the TEI?

     3.   Deliver as CD-ROM, magnetic tape, or both?

     4.   Can one produce retrieval software advanced enough for the
          postdoctoral linguist, yet accessible enough for unattended
          general use?  Should one try?

     5.   Re fair and liberal networking policies, what are the risks to
          an electronic publisher?

     6.   How does the emergence of national and international education
          networks affect the use and viability of research projects
          requiring high investment?  Do the new European Community
          directives concerning database protection necessitate two
          distinct publishing projects, one for North America and one for
          overseas?

From new notions of "scholarly fair use" to the future of optical media,
virtually every issue related to electronic publishing was aired.  The
result is two projects which have been constructed to provide the quality
research resources with the fewest encumbrances to use by teachers and
private scholars.

Dorothy TWOHIG

In spring 1988 the editors of the papers of George Washington, John
Adams, Thomas Jefferson, James Madison, and Benjamin Franklin were
approached by classics scholar David Packard on behalf of the Packard
Humanities Foundation with a proposal to produce a CD-ROM edition of the
complete papers of each of the Founding Fathers.  This electronic edition
will supplement the published volumes, making the documents widely
available to students and researchers at reasonable cost.  We estimate
that our CD-ROM edition of Washington's Papers will be substantially
completed within the next two years and ready for publication.  Within
the next ten years or so, similar CD-ROM editions of the Franklin, Adams,
Jefferson, and Madison papers also will be available.  At the Library of
Congress's session on technology, I would like to discuss not only the
experience of the Washington Papers in producing the CD-ROM edition, but
the impact technology has had on these major editorial projects.
Already, we are editing our volumes with an eye to the material that will
be readily available in the CD-ROM edition.  The completed electronic
edition will provide immense possibilities for the searching of documents
for information in a way never possible before.  The kind of technical
innovations that are currently available and on the drawing board will
soon revolutionize historical research and the production of historical
documents.  Unfortunately, much of this new technology is not being used
in the planning stages of historical projects, simply because many
historians are aware only in the vaguest way of its existence.  At least
two major new historical editing projects are considering microfilm
editions, simply because they are not aware of the possibilities of
electronic alternatives and the advantages of the new technology in terms
of flexibility and research potential compared to microfilm.  In fact,
too many of us in history and literature are still at the stage of
struggling with our PCs.  There are many historical editorial projects in
progress presently, and an equal number of literary projects.  While the
two fields have somewhat different approaches to textual editing, there
are ways in which electronic technology can be of service to both.

Since few of the editors involved in the Founding Fathers CD-ROM editions
are technical experts in any sense, I hope to point out in my discussion
of our experience how many of these electronic innovations can be used
successfully by scholars who are novices in the world of new technology.
One of the major concerns of the sponsors of the multitude of new
scholarly editions is the limited audience reached by the published
volumes.  Most of these editions are being published in small quantities
and the publishers' price for them puts them out of the reach not only of
individual scholars but of most public libraries and all but the largest
educational institutions.  However, little attention is being given to
ways in which technology can bypass conventional publication to make
historical and literary documents more widely available.

What attracted us most to the CD-ROM edition of The Papers of George
Washington was the fact that David Packard's aim was to make a complete
edition of all of the 135,000 documents we have collected available in an
inexpensive format that would be placed in public libraries, small
colleges, and even high schools.  This would provide an audience far
beyond our present 1,000-copy, $45 published edition.  Since the CD-ROM
edition will carry none of the explanatory annotation that appears in the
published volumes, we also feel that the use of the CD-ROM will lead many
researchers to seek out the published volumes.

In addition to ignorance of new technical advances, I have found that too
many editors--and historians and literary scholars--are resistant and
even hostile to suggestions that electronic technology may enhance their
work.  I intend to discuss some of the arguments traditionalists are
advancing to resist technology, ranging from distrust of the speed with
which it changes (we are already wondering what is out there that is
better than CD-ROM) to suspicion of the technical language used to
describe electronic developments.

Maria LEBRON

The Online Journal of Current Clinical Trials, a joint venture of the
American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) and the Online
Computer Library Center, Inc. (OCLC), is the first peer-reviewed journal
to provide full text, tabular material, and line illustrations on line.
This presentation will discuss the genesis and start-up period of the
journal.  Topics of discussion will include historical overview,
day-to-day management of the editorial peer review, and manuscript
tagging and publication.  A demonstration of the journal and its features
will accompany the presentation.

Lynne PERSONIUS

Cornell University Library, Cornell Information Technologies, and Xerox
Corporation, with the support of the Commission on Preservation and
Access, and Sun Microsystems, Inc., have been collaborating in a project
to test a prototype system for recording brittle books as digital images
and producing, on demand, high-quality archival paper replacements.  The
project goes beyond that, however, to investigate some of the issues
surrounding scanning, storing, retrieving, and providing access to
digital images in a network environment.

The Joint Study in Digital Preservation began in January 1990.  Xerox
provided the College Library Access and Storage System (CLASS) software,
a prototype 600-dots-per-inch (dpi) scanner, and the hardware necessary
to support network printing on the DocuTech printer housed in Cornell's
Computing and Communications Center (CCC).

The Cornell staff using the hardware and software became an integral part
of the development and testing process for enhancements to the CLASS
software system.  The collaborative nature of this relationship is
resulting in a system that is specifically tailored to the preservation
application.

A digital library of 1,000 volumes (or approximately 300,000 images) has
been created and is stored on an optical jukebox that resides in CCC.
The library includes a collection of select mathematics monographs that
provides mathematics faculty with an opportunity to use the electronic
library.  The remaining volumes were chosen for the library to test the
various capabilities of the scanning system.

One project objective is to provide users of the Cornell library and the
library staff with the ability to request facsimiles of digitized images
or to retrieve the actual electronic image for browsing.  A prototype
viewing workstation has been created by Xerox, with input into the design
by a committee of Cornell librarians and computer professionals.  This
will allow us to experiment with patron access to the images that make up
the digital library.  The viewing station provides search, retrieval, and
(ultimately) printing functions with enhancements to facilitate
navigation through multiple documents.

Cornell currently is working to extend access to the digital library to
readers using workstations from their offices.  This year is devoted to
the development of a network resident image conversion and delivery
server, and client software that will support readers who use Apple
Macintosh computers, IBM windows platforms, and Sun workstations.
Equipment for this development was provided by Sun Microsystems with
support from the Commission on Preservation and Access.

During the show-and-tell session of the Workshop on Electronic Texts, a
prototype view station will be demonstrated.  In addition, a display of
original library books that have been digitized will be available for
review with associated printed copies for comparison.  The fifteen-minute
overview of the project will include a slide presentation that
constitutes a "tour" of the preservation digitizing process.

The final network-connected version of the viewing station will provide
library users with another mechanism for accessing the digital library,
and will also provide the capability of viewing images directly.  This
will not require special software, although a powerful computer with good
graphics will be needed.

The Joint Study in Digital Preservation has generated a great deal of
interest in the library community.  Unfortunately, or perhaps
fortunately, this project serves to raise a vast number of other issues
surrounding the use of digital technology for the preservation and use of
deteriorating library materials, which subsequent projects will need to
examine.  Much work remains.

SESSION III

Howard BESSER                      Networking Multimedia Databases

What do we have to consider in building and distributing databases of
visual materials in a multi-user environment?  This presentation examines
a variety of concerns that need to be addressed before a multimedia
database can be set up in a networked environment.

In the past it has not been feasible to implement databases of visual
materials in shared-user environments because of technological barriers.
Each of the two basic models for multi-user multimedia databases has
posed its own problem.  The analog multimedia storage model (represented
by Project Athena's parallel analog and digital networks) has required an
incredibly complex (and expensive) infrastructure.  The economies of
scale that make multi-user setups cheaper per user served do not operate
in an environment that requires a computer workstation, videodisc player,
and two display devices for each user.

The digital multimedia storage model has required vast amounts of storage
space (as much as one gigabyte per thirty still images).  In the past the
cost of such a large amount of storage space made this model a
prohibitive choice as well.  But plunging storage costs are finally
making this second alternative viable.

If storage no longer poses such an impediment, what do we need to
consider in building digitally stored multi-user databases of visual
materials?  This presentation will examine the networking and
telecommunication constraints that must be overcome before such databases
can become commonplace and useful to a large number of people.

The key problem is the vast size of multimedia documents, and how this
affects not only storage but telecommunications transmission time.
Anything slower than T-1 speed is impractical for files of 1 megabyte or
larger (which is likely to be small for a multimedia document).  For
instance, even on a 56 Kb line it would take three minutes to transfer a
1-megabyte file.  And these figures assume ideal circumstances, and do
not take into consideration other users contending for network bandwidth,
disk access time, or the time needed for remote display.  Current common
telephone transmission rates would be completely impractical; few users
would be willing to wait the hour necessary to transmit a single image at
2400 baud.

This necessitates compression, which itself raises a number of other
issues.  In order to decrease file sizes significantly, we must employ
lossy compression algorithms.  But how much quality can we afford to
lose?  To date there has been only one significant study done of
image-quality needs for a particular user group, and this study did not
look at loss resulting from compression.  Only after identifying
image-quality needs can we begin to address storage and network bandwidth
needs.

Experience with X-Windows-based applications (such as Imagequery, the
University of California at Berkeley image database) demonstrates the
utility of a client-server topology, but also points to the limitation of
current software for a distributed environment.  For example,
applications like Imagequery can incorporate compression, but current X
implementations do not permit decompression at the end user's
workstation.  Such decompression at the host computer alleviates storage
capacity problems while doing nothing to address problems of
telecommunications bandwidth.

We need to examine the effects on network through-put of movRMT
NFOGRNVWRZ WLXFNVMGH ZILFMW LM Z MVGDLIP.  DV MVVW GL VCZNRMV EZIRLFH
GLKLOLTRVH GSZG DROO SVOK FH ZELRW YLGGOVMVXPH ZILFMW HVIEVIH ZMW
TZGVDZBH.  VCKVIRVMXV DRGS ZKKORXZGRLMH HFXS ZH GSVHV IZRHV HGROO YILZWVI
JFVHGRLMH. SLD XOLHVOB RH GSV NFOGRNVWRZ WLXFNVMG GRVW GL GSV HLUGDZIV
ULI ERVDRMT RG?  XZM RG YV ZXXVHHVW ZMW ERVDVW UILN LGSVI ZKKORXZGRLMH?
VCKVIRVMXV DRGS GSV NZIX ULINZG (ZMW NLIV IVXVMGOB DRGS GSV A39.50
KILGLXLOH) HSLDH SLD FHVUFO RG XZM YV GL HGLIV WLXFNVMGH RM Z ULIN RM
DSRXS GSVB XZM YV ZXXVHHVW YB Z EZIRVGB LU ZKKORXZGRLM HLUGDZIV.

URMZOOB, UILN ZM RMGVOOVXGFZO-ZXXVHH HGZMWKLRMG, DV MVVW GL ZWWIVHH GSV
RHHFV LU KILERWRMT ZXXVHH GL GSVHV NFOGRNVWRZ WLXFNVMGH RM
RMGVIWRHXRKORMZIB VMERILMNVMGH.  DV MVVW GL VCZNRMV GVINRMLOLTB ZMW
RMWVCRMT HGIZGVTRVH GSZG DROO ZOOLD FH GL KILERWV ZXXVHH GL GSRH NZGVIRZO
RM Z XILHH-WRHXRKORMZIB DZB.

ILMZOW OZIHVM            WRIVXGRLMH RM SRTS-KVIULINZMXV MVGDLIPRMT ULI
                         ORYIZIRVH

GSV KZXV ZG DSRXS XLNKFGRMT GVXSMLOLTB SZH ZWEZMXVW LEVI GSV KZHG ULIGB
BVZIH HSLDH ML HRTM LU ZYZGRMT.  ILFTSOB HKVZPRMT, VZXS UREV-BVZI KVIRLW
SZH BRVOWVW ZM LIWVI-LU-NZTMRGFWV RNKILEVNVMG RM KIRXV ZMW KVIULINZMXV LU
XLNKFGRMT VJFRKNVMG.  ML UFMWZNVMGZO SFIWOVH ZIV ORPVOB GL KIVEVMG GSRH
KZXV UILN XLMGRMFRMT ULI ZG OVZHG GSV MVCG WVXZWV.  RG RH LMOB RM GSV
KZHG UREV BVZIH, GSLFTS, GSZG XLNKFGRMT SZH YVXLNV FYRJFRGLFH RM
ORYIZIRVH, ZUUVXGRMT ZOO HGZUU ZMW KZGILMH, WRIVXGOB LI RMWRIVXGOB.

WFIRMT GSVHV HZNV UREV BVZIH, XLNNFMRXZGRLMH IZGVH LM GSV RMGVIMVG, GSV
KIRMXRKZO ZXZWVNRX XLNKFGRMT MVGDLIP, SZEV TILDM UILN 56 PYKH GL 1.5
NYKH, ZMW GSV MHUMVG YZXPYLMV RH MLD IFMMRMT 45 NYKH.  LEVI GSV MVCG UREV
BVZIH, XLNNFMRXZGRLM IZGVH LM GSV YZXPYLMV ZIV VCKVXGVW GL VCXVVW 1 TYKH.
TILDGS RM YLGS GSV KLKFOZGRLM LU MVGDLIP FHVIH ZMW GSV ELOFNV LU MVGDLIP
GIZUURX  SZH XLMGRMFVW GL TILD TVLNVGIRXZOOB, ZG IZGVH ZKKILZXSRMT 15
KVIXVMG KVI NLMGS.  GSRH UOLLW LU XZKZXRGB ZMW FHV, ORPVMVW YB HLNV GL
"WIRMPRMT UILN Z URIVSLHV,"  XIVZGVH RNNVMHV LKKLIGFMRGRVH ZMW XSZOOVMTVH
ULI ORYIZIRVH.  ORYIZIRVH NFHG ZMGRXRKZGV GSV UFGFIV RNKORXZGRLMH LU GSRH
GVXSMLOLTB, KZIGRXRKZGV RM RGH WVEVOLKNVMG, ZMW WVKOLB RG GL VMHFIV
ZXXVHH GL GSV DLIOW'H RMULINZGRLM IVHLFIXVH.

GSV RMUIZHGIFXGFIV ULI GSV RMULINZGRLM ZTV RH YVRMT KFG RM KOZXV.
ORYIZIRVH UZXV HGIZGVTRX WVXRHRLMH ZYLFG GSVRI ILOV RM GSV WVEVOLKNVMG,
WVKOLBNVMG, ZMW FHV LU GSRH RMUIZHGIFXGFIV.  GSV VNVITRMT RMUIZHGIFXGFIV
RH NFXS NLIV GSZM XLNKFGVIH ZMW XLNNFMRXZGRLM ORMVH.  RG RH NLIV GSZM GSV
ZYRORGB GL XLNKFGV ZG Z IVNLGV HRGV, HVMW VOVXGILMRX NZRO GL Z KVVI
ZXILHH GSV XLFMGIB, LI NLEV Z UROV UILN LMV ORYIZIB GL ZMLGSVI.  GSV MVCG
UREV BVZIH DROO DRGMVHH HFYHGZMGRZO WVEVOLKNVMG LU GSV RMULINZGRLM
RMUIZHGIFXGFIV LU GSV MVGDLIP.

RM LIWVI GL KILERWV ZKKILKIRZGV OVZWVIHSRK, ORYIZIB KILUVHHRLMZOH NFHG
SZEV Z UFMWZNVMGZO FMWVIHGZMWRMT LU ZMW ZKKIVXRZGRLM ULI XLNKFGVI
MVGDLIPRMT, UILN OLXZO ZIVZ MVGDLIPH GL GSV MZGRLMZO IVHVZIXS ZMW
VWFXZGRLM MVGDLIP (MIVM).  GSRH KIVHVMGZGRLM ZWWIVHHVH GSVHV
UFMWZNVMGZOH, ZMW SLD GSVB IVOZGV GL ORYIZIRVH GLWZB ZMW RM GSV MVZI
UFGFIV.

VWDRM YILDMIRTT               VOVXGILMRX ORYIZIB ERHRLMH ZMW IVZORGRVH

GSV VOVXGILMRX ORYIZIB SZH YVVM Z ERHRLM WVHRIVW YB NZMB--ZMW IVQVXGVW YB
HLNV--HRMXV EZMMVEZI YFHS XLRMVW GSV GVIN NVNVC GL WVHXIRYV ZM ZFGLNZGVW,
RMGVOORTVMG, KVIHLMZO RMULINZGRLM HBHGVN.  EZIRZGRLMH LM GSRH ERHRLM SZEV
RMXOFWVW GVW MVOHLM'H CZMZWZF, ZOZM PZB'H WBMZYLLP, ZMW OZMXZHGVI'H
"KZKVIOVHH ORYIZIB," DRGS GSV NLHG IVXVMG RMXZIMZGRLM YVRMT GSV
"PMLDOVWTV MZERTZGLI" WVHXIRYVW YB QLSM HXFOOB LU ZKKOV.  YFG GSV IVZORGB
LU ORYIZIB HVIERXV SZH YVVM OVHH ERHRLMZIB ZMW GSV OVZK GL GSV VOVXGILMRX
ORYIZIB SZH VOFWVW FMREVIHRGRVH, KFYORHSVIH, ZMW RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTB
UROVH.

GSV NVNVC IVHVZIXS RMHGRGFGV (NVNIR), ZM RMWVKVMWVMG, MLMKILURG IVHVZIXS
ZMW WVEVOLKNVMG LITZMRAZGRLM, SZH XIVZGVW ZM VOVXGILMRX ORYIZIB KILTIZN
LU HSZIVW IVHVZIXS ZMW WVEVOLKNVMG RM LIWVI GL NZPV GSV XLOOVXGREV ERHRLM
NLIV XLMXIVGV.  GSV KILTIZN RH DLIPRMT GLDZIW GSV XIVZGRLM LU OZITV,
RMWVCVW KFYORXOB ZEZROZYOV VOVXGILMRX RNZTV XLOOVXGRLMH LU KFYORHSVW
WLXFNVMGH RM ZXZWVNRX, HKVXRZO, ZMW KFYORX ORYIZIRVH.  GSRH HGIZGVTRX
KOZM RH GSV IVHFOG LU GSV URIHG HGZTV LU GSV KILTIZN, DSRXS SZH YVVM ZM
RMEVHGRTZGRLM LU GSV RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTRVH ZEZROZYOV GL HFKKLIG HFXS
ZM VUULIG, GSV VXLMLNRX KZIZNVGVIH LU VOVXGILMRX HVIERXV XLNKZIVW GL
GIZWRGRLMZO ORYIZIB LKVIZGRLMH, ZMW GSV YFHRMVHH ZMW KLORGRXZO UZXGLIH
ZUUVXGRMT GSV HSRUG UILN KIRMG WRHGIRYFGRLM GL VOVXGILMRX MVGDLIPVW
ZXXVHH.

GSV HGIZGVTRX KOZM VMERHRLMH Z XLNYRMZGRLM LU KFYORXOB HVZIXSZYOV ZXXVHH
WZGZYZHVH, RNZTV (ZMW GVCG) WLXFNVMG XLOOVXGRLMH HGLIVW LM MVGDLIP "UROV
HVIEVIH," OLXZO ZMW IVNLGV MVGDLIP ZXXVHH, ZMW ZM RMGVOOVXGFZO KILKVIGB
NZMZTVNVMG-XLMGILO HBHGVN.  GSRH XLNYRMZGRLM LU GVXSMLOLTB ZMW
RMULINZGRLM XLMGVMG RH WVURMVW RM GSRH KOZM ZH ZM V-ORYIZIB LI V-ORYIZIB
XLOOVXGRLM.  HLNV KZIGRXRKZGRMT HKLMHLIH ZIV ZOIVZWB WVEVOLKRMT KILQVXGH
YZHVW LM NVNIR'H IVXLNNVMWVW WRIVXGRLMH.

GSV V-ORYIZIB HGIZGVTB KILQVXGVW RM GSRH KOZM RH Z ERHRLMZIB LMV GSZG XZM
VMZYOV NZQLI XSZMTVH ZMW RNKILEVNVMGH RM ZXZWVNRX, KFYORX, ZMW HKVXRZO
ORYIZIB HVIERXV.  GSRH ERHRLM RH, GSLFTS, LMV GSZG XZM YV IVZORAVW DRGS
GLWZB'H GVXSMLOLTB.  ZG GSV HZNV GRNV, RG DROO XSZOOVMTV GSV KLORGRXZO
ZMW HLXRZO HGIFXGFIV DRGSRM DSRXS ORYIZIRVH LKVIZGV:  RM ZXZWVNRX
ORYIZIRVH, GSV GIZWRGRLMZO VNKSZHRH LM OLXZO XLOOVXGRLMH, VCGVMWRMT GL
ZXXIVWRGZGRLM RHHFVH; RM KFYORX ORYIZIRVH, GSV KLGVMGRZO LU VOVXGILMRX
YIZMXS ZMW XVMGIZO ORYIZIRVH UFOOB ZEZROZYOV GL GSV KFYORX; ZMW ULI
HKVXRZO ORYIZIRVH, MVD LKKLIGFMRGRVH ULI HSZIVW XLOOVXGRLMH ZMW MVGDLIPH.

GSV VMERILMNVMG RM DSRXS GSRH HGIZGVTRX KOZM SZH YVVM WVEVOLKVW RH, ZG
GSV NLNVMG, WLNRMZGVW YB Z HVMHV LU ORYIZIB ORNRGH.  GSV XLMGRMFVW
VCKZMHRLM ZMW IZKRW TILDGS LU OLXZO ZXZWVNRX ORYIZIB XLOOVXGRLMH RH MLD
XOVZIOB ZG ZM VMW.  XLIKLIZGV ORYIZIRVH, ZMW VEVM OZD ORYIZIRVH, ZIV
UZXVW DRGS LKVIZGRMT DRGSRM Z WRUURXFOG VXLMLNRX XORNZGV, ZH DVOO ZH DRGS
EVIB ZXGREV XLNKVGRGRLM UILN XLNNVIXRZO RMULINZGRLM HLFIXVH.  ULI
VCZNKOV, KFYORX ORYIZIRVH NZB YV HVVM ZH Z WVHRIZYOV YFG MLG XIRGRXZO
NFMRXRKZO HVIERXV RM Z GRNV DSVM GSV YFWTVGH LU HZUVGB ZMW SVZOGS
ZTVMXRVH ZIV YVRMT XFG YZXP.

UFIGSVI, ORYIZIRVH RM TVMVIZO SZEV Z EVIB SRTS OZYLI-GL-XLHG IZGRL RM
GSVRI YFWTVGH, ZMW OZYLI XLHGH ZIV HGROO RMXIVZHRMT, MLGDRGSHGZMWRMT
ZFGLNZGRLM RMEVHGNVMGH.  RG RH WRUURXFOG ULI ORYIZIRVH GL LYGZRM XZKRGZO,
HGZIGFK, LI HVVW UFMWRMT ULI RMMLEZGREV ZXGRERGRVH, ZMW GSLHV
GVXSMLOLTB-RMGVMHREV RMRGRZGREVH GSZG LUUVI GSV KLGVMGRZO LU WVXIVZHVW
OZYLI XLHGH XZM KILELPV GSV LKKLHRGRLM LU ORYIZIB HGZUU.

SLDVEVI, ORYIZIRVH SZEV ZXSRVEVW HLNV XLMHRWVIZYOV HFXXVHHVH RM GSV KZHG
GDL WVXZWVH YB RNKILERMT YLGS GSVRI HVIERXV ZMW GSVRI XIVWRYRORGB DRGSRM
GSVRI LITZMRAZGRLMH--ZMW GSVHV KLHRGREV XSZMTVH SZEV YVVM ZXXLNKORHSVW
NLHGOB DRGS QFWRXRLFH FHV LU RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTRVH.  GSV ZWEZMXVH RM
XLNKFGRMT ZMW RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTB SZEV YVVM DVOO-XSILMRXOVW:  GSV
XLMGRMFRMT KIVXRKRGLFH WILK RM XLNKFGRMT XLHGH, GSV TILDGS LU GSV
RMGVIMVG ZMW KIREZGV MVGDLIPH, ZMW GSV VCKOLHREV RMXIVZHV RM KFYORXOB
ZEZROZYOV RMULINZGRLM WZGZYZHVH.

ULI VCZNKOV, LXOX SZH YVXLNV LMV LU GSV OZITVHG XLNKFGVI MVGDLIP
LITZMRAZGRLMH RM GSV DLIOW YB XIVZGRMT Z XLLKVIZGREV XZGZOLTRMT MVGDLIP
LU NLIV GSZM 6,000 ORYIZIRVH DLIOWDRWV.  LM-ORMV KFYORX ZXXVHH XZGZOLTH
MLD HVIEV NROORLMH LU FHVIH LM NLIV GSZM 50,000 WVWRXZGVW GVINRMZOH RM
GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH ZOLMV.  GSV FMREVIHRGB LU XZORULIMRZ NVOEBO LM-ORMV
XZGZOLT HBHGVN SZH MLD VCKZMWVW RMGL ZM RMWVC WZGZYZHV IVUVIVMXV HVIERXV
ZMW HFKKLIGH NLIV GSZM HRC NROORLM HVZIXSVH Z BVZI.  ZMW, ORYIZIRVH SZEV
YVXLNV GSV OZITVHG TILFK LU XFHGLNVIH LU XW-ILN KFYORHSRMT GVXSMLOLTB;
NLIV GSZM 30,000 LKGRXZO NVWRZ KFYORXZGRLMH HFXS ZH GSLHV LUUVIVW YB
RMULGIZX ZMW HROEVI KOZGGVI ZIV HFYHXIRYVW GL YB F.H. ORYIZIRVH.

GSRH NZIXS LU GVXSMLOLTB XLMGRMFVH ZMW RM GSV MVCG WVXZWV DROO IVHFOG RM
UFIGSVI RMMLEZGRLMH GSZG ZIV VCGIVNVOB WRUURXFOG GL KIVWRXG.  DSZG RH
XOVZI RH GSZG ORYIZIRVH XZM MLD TL YVBLMW ZFGLNZGRLM LU GSVRI LIWVI UROVH
ZMW XZGZOLTH GL ZFGLNZGRLM LU GSVRI XLOOVXGRLMH GSVNHVOEVH--ZMW RG RH
KLHHRYOV GL XRIXFNEVMG GSV URHXZO ORNRGZGRLMH GSZG ZKKVZI GL LYGZRM
GLWZB.

GSRH VOVXGILMRX ORYIZIB HGIZGVTRX KOZM IVXLNNVMWH Z KZIZWRTN HSRUG RM
ORYIZIB HVIERXV, ZMW WVNLMHGIZGVH GSV HGVKH MVXVHHZIB GL KILERWV RNKILEVW
ORYIZIB HVIERXVH DRGS ORNRGVW XZKZXRGRVH ZMW LKVIZGRMT RMEVHGNVMGH.

HVHHRLM RE-Z

ZMMV PVMMVB

GSV XLIMVOO/CVILC QLRMG HGFWB RM WRTRGZO KIVHVIEZGRLM IVHFOGVW RM GSV
IVXLIWRMT LU 1,000 YIRGGOV YLLPH ZH 600-WKR WRTRGZO RNZTVH ZMW GSV
KILWFXGRLM, LM WVNZMW, LU SRTS-JFZORGB ZMW ZIXSREZOOB HLFMW KZKVI
IVKOZXVNVMGH.  GSV KILQVXG, DSRXS DZH HFKKLIGVW YB GSV XLNNRHHRLM LM
KIVHVIEZGRLM ZMW ZXXVHH, ZOHL RMEVHGRTZGVW HLNV LU GSV RHHFVH HFIILFMWRMT
HXZMMRMT, HGLIRMT, IVGIRVERMT, ZMW KILERWRMT ZXXVHH GL WRTRGZO RNZTVH RM
Z MVGDLIP VMERILMNVMG.

ZMMV PVMMVB DROO ULXFH LM HLNV LU GSV RHHFVH HFIILFMWRMT WRIVXG HXZMMRMT
ZH RWVMGRURVW RM GSV XLIMVOO CVILC KILQVXG.  ZNLMT GSLHV GL YV WRHXFHHVW
ZIV:  RNZTV EVIHFH GVCG XZKGFIV; RMWVCRMT ZMW ZXXVHH; RNZTV-XZKGFIV
XZKZYRORGRVH; Z XLNKZIRHLM GL KSLGLXLKB ZMW NRXILURON; KILWFXGRLM ZMW
XLHG ZMZOBHRH; HGLIZTV ULINZGH, KILGLXLOH, ZMW HGZMWZIWH; ZMW GSV FHV LU
GSRH HXZMMRMT GVXSMLOLTB ULI KIVHVIEZGRLM KFIKLHVH.

GSV 600-WKR WRTRGZO RNZTVH KILWFXVW RM GSV XLIMVOO CVILC KILQVXG KILEVW
SRTSOB ZXXVKGZYOV ULI XIVZGRMT KZKVI IVKOZXVNVMGH LU WVGVIRLIZGRMT
LIRTRMZOH.  GSV 1,000 HXZMMVW ELOFNVH KILERWVW ZM ZIIZB LU RNZTV-XZKGFIV
