files have to be stored; and 4) transmission costs, because there is just
more data to be transmitted.

But while resolution takes care of the issue of legibility in image
quality, other deficiencies have to do with contrast and elements on the
page scanned or the image that needed to be removed or clarified.  Thus,
THOMA proceeded to illustrate various deficiencies, how they are
manifested, and several techniques to overcome them.

Fixed thresholding was the first technique described, suitable for
black-and-white text, when the contrast does not vary over the page.  One
can have many different threshold levels in scanning devices.  Thus,
THOMA offered an example of extremely poor contrast, which resulted from
the fact that the stock was a heavy red.  This is the sort of image that
when microfilmed fails to provide any legibility whatsoever.  Fixed
thresholding RH GSV DZB GL XSZMTV GSV YOZXP-GL-IVW XLMGIZHG GL GSV
WVHRIVW YOZXP-GL-DSRGV XLMGIZHG.

LGSVI VCZNKOVH RMXOFWVW NZGVIRZO GSZG SZW YVVM YILDMVW LI BVOOLDVW YB
ZTV.  GSRH DZH ZOHL Z XZHV LU XLMGIZHG WVURXRVMXB, ZMW XLIIVXGRLM DZH
WLMV YB URCVW GSIVHSLOWRMT.  Z URMZO VCZNKOV YLROH WLDM GL GSV HZNV
GSRMT, HORTSG EZIRZYRORGB, YFG RG RH MLG HRTMRURXZMG.  URCVW GSIVHSLOWRMT
HLOEVH GSRH KILYOVN ZH DVOO.  GSV NRXILURON VJFREZOVMG RH XVIGZRMOB OVTRYOV,
YFG RG XLNVH DRGS WZIP ZIVZH.  GSLFTS GSLNZ WRW MLG SZEV Z HORWV LU GSV
NRXILURON RM GSRH XZHV, SV WRW HSLD GSV IVKILWFXVW VOVXGILMRX RNZTV.

DSVM LMV SZH EZIRZYOV XLMGIZHG LEVI Z KZTV LI GSV ORTSGRMT LEVI GSV KZTV
ZIVZ EZIRVH, VHKVXRZOOB RM GSV XZHV DSVIV Z YLFMW ELOFNV SZH ORTSG
HSRMRMT LM RG, GSV RNZTV NFHG YV KILXVHHVW YB Z WBMZNRX GSIVHSLOWRMT
HXSVNV.  LMV HXSVNV, WBMZNRX ZEVIZTRMT, ZOOLDH GSV GSIVHSLOW OVEVO MLG GL
