characteristics.  The neighbors of a pixel determine where the threshold
should be set for that pixel.

THOMA showed an example of a page that had been made deficient by a
variety of techniques, including a burn mark, coffee stains, and a yellow
marker.  Application of a fixed-thresholding scheme, THOMA argued, might
take care of several deficiencies on the page but not all of them.
Performing the calculation for a dynamic threshold setting, however,
removes most of the deficiencies so that at least the text is legible.

Another problem is representing a gray level with black-and-white pixels
by a process known as dithering or electronic screening.  But dithering
does not provide good image quality for pure black-and-white textual
material.  THOMA illustrated this point with examples. Although its
suitability for photoprinG RH GSV IVZHLM ULI VOVXGILMRX HXIVVMRMT LI
WRGSVIRMT, RG XZMMLG YV FHVW ULI VEVIB XLNKLFMW RNZTV.  RM GSV WLXFNVMG
GSZG DZH WRHGIRYFGVW YB XCK, GSLNZ MLGRXVW GSZG GSV WRGSVIVW RNZTV LU GSV
RVVV GVHG XSZIG VERMXVW HLNV WVGVIRLIZGRLM RM GSV GVCG.  SV KIVHVMGVW ZM
VCGIVNV VCZNKOV LU WVGVIRLIZGRLM RM GSV GVCG RM DSRXS XLNKLFMWVW
WLXFNVMGH SZW GL YV HVG IRTSG YB LGSVI GVXSMRJFVH.  GSV GVXSMRJFV
ROOFHGIZGVW YB GSV KIVHVMG VCZNKOV DZH ZM RNZTV NVITV RM DSRXS GSV KZTV
RH HXZMMVW GDRXV ZMW GSV HVGGRMTH TL UILN URCVW GSIVHSLOW GL GSV
WRGSVIRMT NZGIRC; GSV IVHFOGRMT RNZTVH ZIV NVITVW GL TREV GSV YVHG
IVHFOGH DRGS VZXS GVXSMRJFV.

GSLNZ ROOFHGIZGVW SLD WRGSVIRMT RH ZOHL FHVW RM MLMKSLGLTIZKSRX LI
MLMKIRMG NZGVIRZOH DRGS ZM VCZNKOV LU Z TIZBRHS KZTV UILN Z NVWRXZO GVCG,
DSRXS DZH IVKILWFXVW GL HSLD ZOO LU GSV TIZB GSZG ZKKVZIVW RM GSV
