Patricia BATTIN, president, the Commission on Preservation and Access
(CPA), addressed the implications of standards for preservation.  She
listed several areas where the library profession and the analog world of
the printed book had made enormous contributions over the past hundred
years--for example, in bibliographic formats, binding standards, and, most
important, in determining what constitutes longevity or archival quality.

Although standards have lightened the preservation burden through the
development of national and international collaborative programs,
nevertheless, a pervasive mistrust of other people's standards remains a
major obstacle to successful cooperation, BATTIN said.

The zeal to achieve perfection, regardless of the cost, has hindered
rather than facilitated access in some instances, and in the digital
environment, where no real standards exist, has brought an ironically
just reward.

BATTIN argued that standards are a double-edged sword for those concerned
with the preservation of the human record, that is, the provision of
access to recorded knowledge in a multitude of media as far into thV
UFGFIV ZH KLHHRYOV.  HGZMWZIWH ZIV VHHVMGRZO GL UZXRORGZGV
RMGVIXLMMVXGRERGB ZMW ZXXVHH, YFG, YZGGRM HZRW, ZH OBMXS KLRMGVW LFG
BVHGVIWZB, RU HVG GLL HLLM GSVB XZM SRMWVI XIVZGRERGB, VCKZMHRLM LU
XZKZYRORGB, ZMW GSV YILZWVMRMT LU ZXXVHH.  GSV XSZIZXGVIRHGRXH LU
HGZMWZIWH ULI WRTRGZO RNZTVIB WRUUVI IZWRXZOOB UILN GSLHV ULI ZMZOLT
RNZTVIB.  ZMW GSV MZGFIV LU WRTRGZO GVXSMLOLTB RNKORVH XLMGRMFRMT
ELOZGRORGB ZMW XSZMTV.  GL IVRGVIZGV, KIVXRKRGLFH HGZMWZIW-HVGGRMT XZM
RMSRYRG XIVZGRERGB, YFG WVOZBVW HGZMWZIW-HVGGRMT IVHFOGH RM XSZLH.

HRMXV RM YZGGRM'H LKRMRLM GSV MVZI-GVIN KILTMLHRH ULI IVORZYOV ZIXSREZO
