  Alice was not much surprised at this, she was getting so used
to queer things happening.  While she was looking at the place
where it had been, it suddenly appeared again.

  `By-the-bye, what became of the baby?' said the Cat.  `I'd
nearly forgotten to ask.'

  `It turned into a pig,' Alice quietly said, just as if it had
come back in a natural way.

  `I thought it would,' said the Cat, and vanished again.

  Alice waited a little, half expecting to see it again, but it
did not appear, and after a minute or two she walked on in the
direction in which the March Hare was said to live.  `I've seen
hatters before,' she said to herself; `the March Hare will be
much the most interesting, and perhaps as this is May it won't be
raving mad--at least not so mad as it was in March.'  As she said
this, she looked up, and there was the Cat again, sitting on a
branch of a tree.

  `Did you say pig, or fig?' said the Cat.

  `I said pig,' replied Alice; `and I wish you wouldn't keep
appearing and vanishing so suddenly:  you make one quite giddy.'

  `All right,' said the Cat; and this time it vanished quite
slowly, beginning with the end of the tail, and ending with the
grin, which remained some time after the rest of it had gone.

  `Well!  I've often seen a cat without a grin,' thought Alice;
`but a grin without a cat!  It's the most curious thing I ever
say in my life!'

  She had not gone much farther before she came in sight of the
house of the March Hare:  she thought it must be the right house,
because the chimneys were shaped like ears and the roof was
thatched with fur.  It was so large a house, that she did not
like to go nearer till she had nibbled some more of the lefthand
bit of mushroom, and raised herself to about two feet high:  even
then she walked up towards it rather timidly, saying to herself
`Suppose it should be raving mad after all!  I almost wish I'd
gone to see the Hatter instead!'



                           CHAPTER VII

                         A Mad Tea-Party


  There was a table set out under a tree in front of the house,
and the March Hare and the Hatter were having tea at it:  a
Dormouse was sitting between them, fast asleep, and the other two
were using it as a cushion, resting their elbows on it, and the
talking over its head.  `Very uncomfortable for the Dormouse,'
thought Alice; `only, as it's asleep, I suppose it doesn't mind.'

  The table was a large one, but the three were all crowded
together at one corner of it:  `No room!  No room!' they cried
out when they saw Alice coming.  `There's PLENTY of room!' said
Alice indignantly, and she sat down in a large arm-chair at one
end of the table.

  `Have some wine,' the March Hare said in an encouraging tone.

  Alice looked all round the table, but there was nothing on it
but tea.  `I don't see any wine,' she remarked.

  `There isn't any,' said the March Hare.

  `Then it wasn't very civil of you to offer it,' said Alice
angrily.

  `It wasn't very civil of you to sit down without being
invited,' said the March Hare.

  `I didn't know it was YOUR table,' said Alice; `it's laid for a
great many more than three.'

  `Your hair wants cutting,' said the Hatter.  He had been
looking at Alice for some time with great curiosity, and this was
his first speech.

  `You should learn not to make personal remarks,' Alice said
with some severity; `it's very rude.'

  The Hatter opened his eyes very wide on hearing this; but all
he SAID was, `Why is a raven like a writing-desk?'

  `Come, we shall have some fun now!' thought Alice.  `I'm glad
they've begun asking riddles.--I believe I can guess that,' she
added aloud.

  `Do you mean that you think you can find out the answer to it?'
said the March Hare.

  `Exactly so,' said Alice.

  `Then you should say what you mean,' the March Hare went on.

  `I do,' Alice hastily replied; `at least--at least I mean what
I say--that's the same thing, you know.'

  `Not the same thing a bit!' said the Hatter.  `You might just
as well say that "I see what I eat" is the same thing as "I eat
what I see"!'

  `You might just as well say,' added the March Hare, `that "I
like what I get" is the same thing as "I get what I like"!'

  `You might just as well say,' added the Dormouse, who seemed to
be talking in his sleep, `that "I breathe when I sleep" is the
same thing as "I sleep when I breathe"!'

  `It IS the same thing with you,' said the Hatter, and here the
conversation dropped, and the party sat silent for a minute,
while Alice thought over all she could remember about ravens and
writing-desks, which wasn't much.

  The Hatter was the first to break the silence.  `What day of
the month is it?' he said, turning to Alice:  he had taken his
watch out of his pocket, and was looking at it uneasily, shaking
it every now and then, and holding it to his ear.

  Alice considered a little, and then said `The fourth.'

  `Two days wrong!' sighed the Hatter.  `I told you butter
wouldn't suit the works!' he added looking angrily at the March
Hare.

  `It was the BEST butter,' the March Hare meekly replied.

  `Yes, but some crumbs must have got in as well,' the Hatter
grumbled:  `you shouldn't have put it in with the bread-knife.'

  The March Hare took the watch and looked at it gloomily:  then
he dipped it into his cup of tea, and looked at it again:  but he
could think of nothing better to say than his first remark, `It
was the BEST butter, you know.'

  Alice had been looking over his shoulder with some curiosity.
`What a funny watch!' she remarked.  `It tells the day of the
month, and doesn't tell what o'clock it is!'

  `Why should it?' muttered the Hatter.  `Does YOUR watch tell
you what year it is?'

  `Of course not,' Alice replied very readily:  `but that's
because it stays the same year for such a long time together.'

  `Which is just the case with MINE,' said the Hatter.

  Alice felt dreadfully puzzled.  The Hatter's remark seemed to
have no sort of meaning in it, and yet it was certainly English.
`I don't quite understand you,' she said, as politely as she
could.

  `The Dormouse is asleep again,' said the Hatter, and he poured
a little hot tea upon its nose.

  The Dormouse shook its head impatiently, and said, without
opening its eyes, `Of course, of course; just what I was going to
remark myself.'

  `Have you guessed the riddle yet?' the Hatter said, turning to
Alice again.

  `No, I give it up,' Alice replied:  `what's the answer?'

  `I haven't the slightest idea,' said the Hatter.

  `Nor I,' said the March Hare.

  Alice sighed wearily.  `I think you might do something better
with the time,' she said, `than waste it in asking riddles that
have no answers.'

  `If you knew Time as well as I do,' said the Hatter, `you
wouldn't talk about wasting IT.  It's HIM.'

  `I don't know what you mean,' said Alice.

  `Of course you don't!' the Hatter said, tossing his head
contemptuously.  `I dare say you never even spoke to Time!'

  `Perhaps not,' Alice cautiously replied:  `but I know I have to
beat time when I learn music.'

  `Ah! that accounts for it,' said the Hatter.  `He won't stand
beating.  Now, if you only kept on good terms with him, he'd do
almost anything you liked with the clock.  For instance, suppose
it were nine o'clock in the morning, just time to begin lessons:
you'd only have to whisper a hint to Time, and round goes the
clock in a twinkling!  Half-past one, time for dinner!'

  (`I only wish it was,' the March Hare said to itself in a
whisper.)

  `That would be grand, certainly,' said Alice thoughtfully:
`but then--I shouldn't be hungry for it, you know.'

  `Not at first, perhaps,' said the Hatter:  `but you could keep
it to half-past one as long as you liked.'

  `Is that the way YOU manage?' Alice asked.

  The Hatter shook his head mournfully.  `Not I!' he replied.
`We quarrelled last March--just before HE went mad, you know--'
(pointing with his tea spoon at the March Hare,) `--it was at the
great concert given by the Queen of Hearts, and I had to sing

            "Twinkle, twinkle, little bat!
            How I wonder what you're at!"

You know the song, perhaps?'

  `I've heard something like it,' said Alice.

  `It goes on, you know,' the Hatter continued, `in this way:--

            "Up above the world you fly,
            Like a tea-tray in the sky.
                    Twinkle, twinkle--"'

Here the Dormouse shook itself, and began singing in its sleep
`Twinkle, twinkle, twinkle, twinkle--' and went on so long that
they had to pinch it to make it stop.

  `Well, I'd hardly finished the first verse,' said the Hatter,
`when the Queen jumped up and bawled out, "He's murdering the
time!  Off with his head!"'

  `How dreadfully savage!' exclaimed Alice.

  `And ever since that,' the Hatter went on in a mournful tone,
`he won't do a thing I ask!  It's always six o'clock now.'

  A bright idea came into Alice's head.  `Is that the reason so
many tea-things are put out here?' she asked.

  `Yes, that's it,' said the Hatter with a sigh:  `it's always
tea-time, and we've no time to wash the things between whiles.'

  `Then you keep moving round, I suppose?' said Alice.

  `Exactly so,' said the Hatter:  `as the things get used up.'

  `But what happens when you come to the beginning again?' Alice
ventured to ask.

  `Suppose we change the subject,' the March Hare interrupted,
yawning.  `I'm getting tired of this.  I vote the young lady
tells us a story.'

  `I'm afraid I don't know one,' said Alice, rather alarmed at
the proposal.

  `Then the Dormouse shall!' they both cried.  `Wake up,
Dormouse!'  And they pinched it on both sides at once.

  The Dormouse slowly opened his eyes.  `I wasn't asleep,' he
said in a hoarse, feeble voice:  `I heard every word you fellows
were saying.'

  `Tell us a story!' said the March Hare.

  `Yes, please do!' pleaded Alice.

  `And be quick about it,' added the Hatter, `or you'll be asleep
again before it's done.'

  `Once upon a time there were three little sisters,' the
Dormouse began in a great hurry; `and their names were Elsie,
Lacie, and Tillie; and they lived at the bottom of a well--'

  `What did they live on?' said Alice, who always took a great
interest in questions of eating and drinking.

  `They lived on treacle,' said the Dormouse, after thinking a
minute or two.

  `They couldn't have done that, you know,' Alice gently
remarked; `they'd have been ill.'

  `So they were,' said the Dormouse; `VERY ill.'

  Alice tried to fancy to herself what such an extraordinary ways
of living would be like, but it puzzled her too much, so she went
on:  `But why did they live at the bottom of a well?'

  `Take some more tea,' the March Hare said to Alice, very
earnestly.

  `I've had nothing yet,' Alice replied in an offended tone, `so
I can't take more.'

  `You mean you can't take LESS,' said the Hatter:  `it's very
easy to take MORE than nothing.'

  `Nobody asked YOUR opinion,' said Alice.

  `Who's making personal remarks now?' the Hatter asked
triumphantly.

  Alice did not quite know what to say to this:  so she helped
herself to some tea and bread-and-butter, and then turned to the
Dormouse, and repeated her question.  `Why did they live at the
bottom of a well?'

  The Dormouse again took a minute or two to think about it, and
then said, `It was a treacle-well.'

  `There's no such thing!'  Alice was beginning very angrily, but
the Hatter and the March Hare went `Sh! sh!' and the Dormouse
sulkily remarked, `If you can't be civil, you'd better finish the
story for yourself.'

  `No, please go on!' Alice said very humbly; `I won't interrupt
again.  I dare say there may be ONE.'

  `One, indeed!' said the Dormouse indignantly.  However, he
consented to go on.  `And so these three little sisters--they
were learning to draw, you know--'

  `What did they draw?' said Alice, quite forgetting her promise.

  `Treacle,' said the Dormouse, without considering at all this
time.

  `I want a clean cup,' interrupted the Hatter:  `let's all move
one place on.'

  He moved on as he spoke, and the Dormouse followed him:  the
March Hare moved into the Dormouse's place, and Alice rather
unwillingly took the place of the March Hare.  The Hatter was the
only one who got any advantage from the change:  and Alice was a
good deal worse off than before, as the March Hare had just upset
the milk-jug into his plate.

  Alice did not wish to offend the Dormouse again, so she began
very cautiously:  `But I don't understand.  Where did they draw
the treacle from?'

  `You can draw water out of a water-well,' said the Hatter; `so
I should think you could draw treacle out of a treacle-well--eh,
stupid?'

  `But they were IN the well,' Alice said to the Dormouse, not
choosing to notice this last remark.

  `Of course they were', said the Dormouse; `--well in.'

  This answer so confused poor Alice, that she let the Dormouse
go on for some time without interrupting it.

  `They were learning to draw,' the Dormouse went on, yawning and
rubbing its eyes, for it was getting very sleepy; `and they drew
all manner of things--everything that begins with an M--'

  `Why with an M?' said Alice.

  `Why not?' said the March Hare.

  Alice was silent.

  The Dormouse had closed its eyes by this time, and was going
off into a doze; but, on being pinched by the Hatter, it woke up
again with a little shriek, and went on:  `--that begins with an
M, such as mouse-traps, and the moon, and memory, and muchness--
you know you say things are "much of a muchness"--did you ever
see such a thing as a drawing of a muchness?'

  `Really, now you ask me,' said Alice, very much confused, `I
don't think--'

  `Then you shouldn't talk,' said the Hatter.

  This piece of rudeness was more than Alice could bear:  she got
up in great disgust, and walked off; the Dormouse fell asleep
instantly, and neither of the others took the least notice of her
going, though she looked back once or twice, half hoping that
they would call after her:  the last time she saw them, they were
trying to put the Dormouse into the teapot.

  `At any rate I'll never go THERE again!' said Alice as she
picked her way through the wood.  `It's the stupidest tea-party I
ever was at in all my life!'

  Just as she said this, she noticed that one of the trees had a
door leading right into it.  `That's very curious!' she thought.
`But everything's curious today.  I think I may as well go in at
once.'  And in she went.

  Once more she found herself in the long hall, and close to the
little glass table.  `Now, I'll manage better this time,' she
said to herself, and began by taking the little golden key, and
unlocking the door that led into the garden.  Then she went to
work nibbling at the mushroom (she had kept a piece of it in her
pocked) till she was about a foot high:  then she walked down the
little passage:  and THEN--she found herself at last in the
beautiful garden, among the bright flower-beds and the cool
fountains.



                          CHAPTER VIII

                   The Queen's Croquet-Ground


  A large rose-tree stood near the entrance of the garden:  the
roses growing on it were white, but there were three gardeners at
it, busily painting them red.  Alice thought this a very curious
thing, and she went nearer to watch them, and just as she came up
to them she heard one of them say, `Look out now, Five!  Don't go
splashing paint over me like that!'

  `I couldn't help it,' said Five, in a sulky tone; `Seven jogged
my elbow.'

  On which Seven looked up and said, `That's right, Five!  Always
lay the blame on others!'

  `YOU'D better not talk!' said Five.  `I heard the Queen say only
yesterday you deserved to be beheaded!'

  `What for?' said the one who had spoken first.

  `That's none of YOUR business, Two!' said Seven.

  `Yes, it IS his business!' said Five, `and I'll tell him--it
was for bringing the cook tulip-roots instead of onions.'

  Seven flung down his brush, and had just begun `Well, of all
the unjust things--' when his eye chanced to fall upon Alice, as
she stood watching them, and he checked himself suddenly:  the
others looked round also, and all of them bowed low.

  `Would you tell me,' said Alice, a little timidly, `why you are
painting those roses?'

  Five and Seven said nothing, but looked at Two.  Two began in a
low voice, `Why the fact is, you see, Miss, this here ought to
have been a RED rose-tree, and we put a white one in by mistake;
and if the Queen was to find it out, we should all have our heads
cut off, you know.  So you see, Miss, we're doing our best, afore
she comes, to--'  At this moment Five, who had been anxiously
looking across the garden, called out `The Queen!  The Queen!'
and the three gardeners instantly threw GSVNHVOEVH UOZG FKLM
GSVRI UZXVH.  GSVIV DZH Z HLFMW LU NZMB ULLGHGVKH, ZMW ZORXV
OLLPVW ILFMW, VZTVI GL HVV GSV JFVVM.

  URIHG XZNV GVM HLOWRVIH XZIIBRMT XOFYH; GSVHV DVIV ZOO HSZKVW
ORPV GSV GSIVV TZIWVMVIH, LYOLMT ZMW UOZG, DRGS GSVRI SZMWH ZMW
UVVG ZG GSV XLIMVIH:  MVCG GSV GVM XLFIGRVIH; GSVHV DVIV
LIMZNVMGVW ZOO LEVI DRGS WRZNLMWH, ZMW DZOPVW GDL ZMW GDL, ZH GSV
HLOWRVIH WRW.  ZUGVI GSVHV XZNV GSV ILBZO XSROWIVM; GSVIV DVIV
GVM LU GSVN, ZMW GSV ORGGOV WVZIH XZNV QFNKRMT NVIIROB ZOLMT SZMW
RM SZMW, RM XLFKOVH:  GSVB DVIV ZOO LIMZNVMGVW DRGS SVZIGH.  MVCG
XZNV GSV TFVHGH, NLHGOB PRMTH ZMW JFVVMH, ZMW ZNLMT GSVN ZORXV
IVXLTMRHVW GSV DSRGV IZYYRG:  RG DZH GZOPRMT RM Z SFIIRVW MVIELFH
NZMMVI, HNRORMT ZG VEVIBGSRMT GSZG DZH HZRW, ZMW DVMG YB DRGSLFG
MLGRXRMT SVI.  GSVM ULOOLDVW GSV PMZEV LU SVZIGH, XZIIBRMT GSV
PRMT'H XILDM LM Z XIRNHLM EVOEVG XFHSRLM; ZMW, OZHG LU ZOO GSRH
TIZMW KILXVHHRLM, XZNV GSV PRMT ZMW JFVVM LU SVZIGH.

  ZORXV DZH IZGSVI WLFYGUFO DSVGSVI HSV LFTSG MLG GL ORV WLDM LM
SVI UZXV ORPV GSV GSIVV TZIWVMVIH, YFG HSV XLFOW MLG IVNVNYVI
VEVIB SZERMT SVZIW LU HFXS Z IFOV ZG KILXVHHRLMH; `ZMW YVHRWVH,
DSZG DLFOW YV GSV FHV LU Z KILXVHHRLM,' GSLFTSG HSV, `RU KVLKOV
SZW ZOO GL ORV WLDM FKLM GSVRI UZXVH, HL GSZG GSVB XLFOWM'G HVV
RG?'  HL HSV HGLLW HGROO DSVIV HSV DZH, ZMW DZRGVW.

  DSVM GSV KILXVHHRLM XZNV LKKLHRGV GL ZORXV, GSVB ZOO HGLKKVW
ZMW OLLPVW ZG SVI, ZMW GSV JFVVM HZRW HVEVIVOB `DSL RH GSRH?'
HSV HZRW RG GL GSV PMZEV LU SVZIGH, DSL LMOB YLDVW ZMW HNROVW RM
IVKOB.

  `RWRLG!' HZRW GSV JFVVM, GLHHRMT SVI SVZW RNKZGRVMGOB; ZMW,
GFIMRMT GL ZORXV, HSV DVMG LM, `DSZG'H BLFI MZNV, XSROW?'

  `NB MZNV RH ZORXV, HL KOVZHV BLFI NZQVHGB,' HZRW ZORXV EVIB
KLORGVOB; YFG HSV ZWWVW, GL SVIHVOU, `DSB, GSVB'IV LMOB Z KZXP LU
XZIWH, ZUGVI ZOO.  R MVVWM'G YV ZUIZRW LU GSVN!'

  `ZMW DSL ZIV GSVHV?' HZRW GSV JFVVM, KLRMGRMT GL GSV GSIVV
TZIWVMVIH DSL DVIV OBRMT ILFMW GSV ILHVGIVV; ULI, BLF HVV, ZH
GSVB DVIV OBRMT LM GSVRI UZXVH, ZMW GSV KZGGVIM LM GSVRI YZXPH
DZH GSV HZNV ZH GSV IVHG LU GSV KZXP, HSV XLFOW MLG GVOO DSVGSVI
GSVB DVIV TZIWVMVIH, LI HLOWRVIH, LI XLFIGRVIH, LI GSIVV LU SVI
LDM XSROWIVM.

  `SLD HSLFOW R PMLD?' HZRW ZORXV, HFIKIRHVW ZG SVI LDM XLFIZTV.
`RG'H ML YFHRMVHH LU NRMV.'

  GSV JFVVM GFIMVW XIRNHLM DRGS UFIB, ZMW, ZUGVI TOZIRMT ZG SVI
ULI Z NLNVMG ORPV Z DROW YVZHG, HXIVZNVW `LUU DRGS SVI SVZW!
LUU--'

  `MLMHVMHV!' HZRW ZORXV, EVIB OLFWOB ZMW WVXRWVWOB, ZMW GSV
JFVVM DZH HROVMG.

  GSV PRMT OZRW SRH SZMW FKLM SVI ZIN, ZMW GRNRWOB HZRW
`XLMHRWVI, NB WVZI:  HSV RH LMOB Z XSROW!'

  GSV JFVVM GFIMVW ZMTIROB ZDZB UILN SRN, ZMW HZRW GL GSV PMZEV
`GFIM GSVN LEVI!'

  GSV PMZEV WRW HL, EVIB XZIVUFOOB, DRGS LMV ULLG.

  `TVG FK!' HZRW GSV JFVVM, RM Z HSIROO, OLFW ELRXV, ZMW GSV
GSIVV TZIWVMVIH RMHGZMGOB QFNKVW FK, ZMW YVTZM YLDRMT GL GSV
PRMT, GSV JFVVM, GSV ILBZO XSROWIVM, ZMW VEVIBYLWB VOHV.

  `OVZEV LUU GSZG!' HXIVZNVW GSV JFVVM.  `BLF NZPV NV TRWWB.'
ZMW GSVM, GFIMRMT GL GSV ILHV-GIVV, HSV DVMG LM, `DSZG SZEV BLF
YVVM WLRMT SVIV?'

  `NZB RG KOVZHV BLFI NZQVHGB,' HZRW GDL, RM Z EVIB SFNYOV GLMV,
TLRMT WLDM LM LMV PMVV ZH SV HKLPV, `DV DVIV GIBRMT--'

  `R HVV!' HZRW GSV JFVVM, DSL SZW NVZMDSROV YVVM VCZNRMRMT GSV
ILHVH.  `LUU DRGS GSVRI SVZWH!' ZMW GSV KILXVHHRLM NLEVW LM,
GSIVV LU GSV HLOWRVIH IVNZRMRMT YVSRMW GL VCVXFGV GSV FMULIGFMZGV
TZIWVMVIH, DSL IZM GL ZORXV ULI KILGVXGRLM.

  `BLF HSZM'G YV YVSVZWVW!' HZRW ZORXV, ZMW HSV KFG GSVN RMGL Z
OZITV UOLDVI-KLG GSZG HGLLW MVZI.  GSV GSIVV HLOWRVIH DZMWVIVW
ZYLFG ULI Z NRMFGV LI GDL, OLLPRMT ULI GSVN, ZMW GSVM JFRVGOB
NZIXSVW LUU ZUGVI GSV LGSVIH.

  `ZIV GSVRI SVZWH LUU?' HSLFGVW GSV JFVVM.

  `GSVRI SVZWH ZIV TLMV, RU RG KOVZHV BLFI NZQVHGB!' GSV HLOWRVIH
HSLFGVW RM IVKOB.

  `GSZG'H IRTSG!' HSLFGVW GSV JFVVM.  `XZM BLF KOZB XILJFVG?'

  GSV HLOWRVIH DVIV HROVMG, ZMW OLLPVW ZG ZORXV, ZH GSV JFVHGRLM
DZH VERWVMGOB NVZMG ULI SVI.

  `BVH!' HSLFGVW ZORXV.

  `XLNV LM, GSVM!' ILZIVW GSV JFVVM, ZMW ZORXV QLRMVW GSV
KILXVHHRLM, DLMWVIRMT EVIB NFXS DSZG DLFOW SZKKVM MVCG.

  `RG'H--RG'H Z EVIB URMV WZB!' HZRW Z GRNRW ELRXV ZG SVI HRWV.
HSV DZH DZOPRMT YB GSV DSRGV IZYYRG, DSL DZH KVVKRMT ZMCRLFHOB
RMGL SVI UZXV.

  `EVIB,' HZRW ZORXV:  `--DSVIV'H GSV WFXSVHH?'

  `SFHS!  SFHS!' HZRW GSV IZYYRG RM Z OLD, SFIIRVW GLMV.  SV
OLLPVW ZMCRLFHOB LEVI SRH HSLFOWVI ZH SV HKLPV, ZMW GSVM IZRHVW
SRNHVOU FKLM GRKGLV, KFG SRH NLFGS XOLHV GL SVI VZI, ZMW
DSRHKVIVW `HSV'H FMWVI HVMGVMXV LU VCVXFGRLM.'

  `DSZG ULI?' HZRW ZORXV.

  `WRW BLF HZB "DSZG Z KRGB!"?' GSV IZYYRG ZHPVW.

  `ML, R WRWM'G,' HZRW ZORXV:  `R WLM'G GSRMP RG'H ZG ZOO Z KRGB.
R HZRW "DSZG ULI?"'

  `HSV YLCVW GSV JFVVM'H VZIH--' GSV IZYYRG YVTZM.  ZORXV TZEV Z
ORGGOV HXIVZN LU OZFTSGVI.  `LS, SFHS!' GSV IZYYRG DSRHKVIVW RM Z
UIRTSGVMVW GLMV.  `GSV JFVVM DROO SVZI BLF!  BLF HVV, HSV XZNV
IZGSVI OZGV, ZMW GSV JFVVM HZRW--'

  `TVG GL BLFI KOZXVH!' HSLFGVW GSV JFVVM RM Z ELRXV LU GSFMWVI,
ZMW KVLKOV YVTZM IFMMRMT ZYLFG RM ZOO WRIVXGRLMH, GFNYORMT FK
ZTZRMHG VZXS LGSVI; SLDVEVI, GSVB TLG HVGGOVW WLDM RM Z NRMFGV LI
GDL, ZMW GSV TZNV YVTZM.  ZORXV GSLFTSG HSV SZW MVEVI HVVM HFXS Z
XFIRLFH XILJFVG-TILFMW RM SVI ORUV; RG DZH ZOO IRWTVH ZMW
UFIILDH; GSV YZOOH DVIV OREV SVWTVSLTH, GSV NZOOVGH OREV
UOZNRMTLVH, ZMW GSV HLOWRVIH SZW GL WLFYOV GSVNHVOEVH FK ZMW GL
HGZMW LM GSVRI SZMWH ZMW UVVG, GL NZPV GSV ZIXSVH.

  GSV XSRVU WRUURXFOGB ZORXV ULFMW ZG URIHG DZH RM NZMZTRMT SVI
UOZNRMTL:  HSV HFXXVVWVW RM TVGGRMT RGH YLWB GFXPVW ZDZB,
XLNULIGZYOB VMLFTS, FMWVI SVI ZIN, DRGS RGH OVTH SZMTRMT WLDM,
YFG TVMVIZOOB, QFHG ZH HSV SZW TLG RGH MVXP MRXVOB HGIZRTSGVMVW
LFG, ZMW DZH TLRMT GL TREV GSV SVWTVSLT Z YOLD DRGS RGH SVZW, RG
DLFOW GDRHG RGHVOU ILFMW ZMW OLLP FK RM SVI UZXV, DRGS HFXS Z
KFAAOVW VCKIVHHRLM GSZG HSV XLFOW MLG SVOK YFIHGRMT LFG OZFTSRMT:
ZMW DSVM HSV SZW TLG RGH SVZW WLDM, ZMW DZH TLRMT GL YVTRM ZTZRM,
RG DZH EVIB KILELPRMT GL URMW GSZG GSV SVWTVSLT SZW FMILOOVW
RGHVOU, ZMW DZH RM GSV ZXG LU XIZDORMT ZDZB:  YVHRWVH ZOO GSRH,
GSVIV DZH TVMVIZOOB Z IRWTV LI UFIILD RM GSV DZB DSVIVEVI HSV
DZMGVW GL HVMW GSV SVWTVSLT GL, ZMW, ZH GSV WLFYOVW-FK HLOWRVIH
DVIV ZODZBH TVGGRMT FK ZMW DZOPRMT LUU GL LGSVI KZIGH LU GSV
TILFMW, ZORXV HLLM XZNV GL GSV XLMXOFHRLM GSZG RG DZH Z EVIB
WRUURXFOG TZNV RMWVVW.

  GSV KOZBVIH ZOO KOZBVW ZG LMXV DRGSLFG DZRGRMT ULI GFIMH,
JFZIIVOORMT ZOO GSV DSROV, ZMW URTSGRMT ULI GSV SVWTVSLTH; ZMW RM
Z EVIB HSLIG GRNV GSV JFVVM DZH RM Z UFIRLFH KZHHRLM, ZMW DVMG
HGZNKRMT ZYLFG, ZMW HSLFGRMT `LUU DRGS SRH SVZW!' LI `LUU DRGS
SVI SVZW!' ZYLFG LMXV RM Z NRMFGV.

  ZORXV YVTZM GL UVVO EVIB FMVZHB:  GL YV HFIV, HSV SZW MLG ZH
BVG SZW ZMB WRHKFGV DRGS GSV JFVVM, YFG HSV PMVD GSZG RG NRTSG
SZKKVM ZMB NRMFGV, `ZMW GSVM,' GSLFTSG HSV, `DSZG DLFOW YVXLNV LU
NV?  GSVB'IV WIVZWUFOOB ULMW LU YVSVZWRMT KVLKOV SVIV; GSV TIVZG
DLMWVI RH, GSZG GSVIV'H ZMB LMV OVUG ZOREV!'

  HSV DZH OLLPRMT ZYLFG ULI HLNV DZB LU VHXZKV, ZMW DLMWVIRMT
DSVGSVI HSV XLFOW TVG ZDZB DRGSLFG YVRMT HVVM, DSVM HSV MLGRXVW Z
XFIRLFH ZKKVZIZMXV RM GSV ZRI:  RG KFAAOVW SVI EVIB NFXS ZG
URIHG, YFG, ZUGVI DZGXSRMT RG Z NRMFGV LI GDL, HSV NZWV RG LFG GL
YV Z TIRM, ZMW HSV HZRW GL SVIHVOU `RG'H GSV XSVHSRIV XZG:  MLD R
HSZOO SZEV HLNVYLWB GL GZOP GL.'

  `SLD ZIV BLF TVGGRMT LM?' HZRW GSV XZG, ZH HLLM ZH GSVIV DZH
NLFGS VMLFTS ULI RG GL HKVZP DRGS.

  ZORXV DZRGVW GROO GSV VBVH ZKKVZIVW, ZMW GSVM MLWWVW.  `RG'H ML
FHV HKVZPRMT GL RG,' HSV GSLFTSG, `GROO RGH VZIH SZEV XLNV, LI ZG
OVZHG LMV LU GSVN.'  RM ZMLGSVI NRMFGV GSV DSLOV SVZW ZKKVZIVW,
ZMW GSVM ZORXV KFG WLDM SVI UOZNRMTL, ZMW YVTZM ZM ZXXLFMG LU GSV
TZNV, UVVORMT EVIB TOZW HSV SZW HLNVLMV GL ORHGVM GL SVI.  GSV
XZG HVVNVW GL GSRMP GSZG GSVIV DZH VMLFTS LU RG MLD RM HRTSG, ZMW
ML NLIV LU RG ZKKVZIVW.

  `R WLM'G GSRMP GSVB KOZB ZG ZOO UZRIOB,' ZORXV YVTZM, RM IZGSVI
Z XLNKOZRMRMT GLMV, `ZMW GSVB ZOO JFZIIVO HL WIVZWUFOOB LMV XZM'G
SVZI LMVHVOU HKVZP--ZMW GSVB WLM'G HVVN GL SZEV ZMB IFOVH RM
KZIGRXFOZI; ZG OVZHG, RU GSVIV ZIV, MLYLWB ZGGVMWH GL GSVN--ZMW
BLF'EV ML RWVZ SLD XLMUFHRMT RG RH ZOO GSV GSRMTH YVRMT ZOREV;
ULI RMHGZMXV, GSVIV'H GSV ZIXS R'EV TLG GL TL GSILFTS MVCG
DZOPRMT ZYLFG ZG GSV LGSVI VMW LU GSV TILFMW--ZMW R HSLFOW SZEV
XILJFVGVW GSV JFVVM'H SVWTVSLT QFHG MLD, LMOB RG IZM ZDZB DSVM RG
HZD NRMV XLNRMT!'

  `SLD WL BLF ORPV GSV JFVVM?' HZRW GSV XZG RM Z OLD ELRXV.

  `MLG ZG ZOO,' HZRW ZORXV:  `HSV'H HL VCGIVNVOB--'  QFHG GSVM
HSV MLGRXVW GSZG GSV JFVVM DZH XOLHV YVSRMW SVI, ORHGVMRMT:  HL
HSV DVMG LM, `--ORPVOB GL DRM, GSZG RG'H SZIWOB DLIGS DSROV
URMRHSRMT GSV TZNV.'

  GSV JFVVM HNROVW ZMW KZHHVW LM.

  `DSL ZIV BLF GZOPRMT GL?' HZRW GSV PRMT, TLRMT FK GL ZORXV, ZMW
OLLPRMT ZG GSV XZG'H SVZW DRGS TIVZG XFIRLHRGB.

  `RG'H Z UIRVMW LU NRMV--Z XSVHSRIV XZG,' HZRW ZORXV:  `ZOOLD NV
GL RMGILWFXV RG.'

  `R WLM'G ORPV GSV OLLP LU RG ZG ZOO,' HZRW GSV PRMT:  `SLDVEVI,
RG NZB PRHH NB SZMW RU RG ORPVH.'

  `R'W IZGSVI MLG,' GSV XZG IVNZIPVW.

  `WLM'G YV RNKVIGRMVMG,' HZRW GSV PRMT, `ZMW WLM'G OLLP ZG NV
ORPV GSZG!'  SV TLG YVSRMW ZORXV ZH SV HKLPV.

  `Z XZG NZB OLLP ZG Z PRMT,' HZRW ZORXV.  `R'EV IVZW GSZG RM
