      Stuart Weibel
         Discussion
      C.M. Sperberg-McQueen
         Discussion
      Eric M. Calaluca
         Discussion

   Session VI.  Copyright Issues
      Marybeth Peters

   Session VII.  Conclusion
      Prosser Gifford (Moderator)
      General discussion

Appendix I:  Program

Appendix II:  Abstracts

Appendix III:  Directory of Participants


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                            Acknowledgements

I would like to thank Carl Fleischhauer and Prosser Gifford for the
opportunity to learn about areas of human activity unknown to me a scant
ten months ago, and the David and Lucile Packard Foundation for
supporting that opportunity.  The help given by others is acknowledged on
a separate page.

                                                          19 October 1992


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                              INTRODUCTION

The Workshop on Electronic Texts (1) drew together representatives of
various projects and interest groups to compare ideas, beliefs,
experiences, and, in particular, methods of placing and presenting
historical textual materials in computerized form.  Most attendees gained
much in insight and outlook from the event.  But the assembly did not
form a new nation, or, to put it another way, the diversity of projects
and interests was too great to draw the representatives into a cohesive,
action-oriented body.(2)

Everyone attending the Workshop shared an interest in preserving and
providing access to historical texts.  But within this broad field the
attendees represented a variety of formal, informal, figurative, and
literal groups, with many individuals belonging to more than one.  These
groups may be defined roughly according to the following topics or
activities:

* Imaging
* Searchable coded texts
* National and international computer networks
* CD-ROM production and dissemination
* Methods and technology for converting older paper materials into
electronic form
* Study of the use of digital materials by scholars and others

This summary is arranged thematically and does not follow the actual
sequence of presentations.

NOTES:
     (1)  In this document, the phrase electronic text is used to mean
     any computerized reproduction or version of a document, book,
     article, or manuscript (including images), and not merely a machine-
     readable or machine-searchable text.

     (2)  The Workshop was held at the Library of Congress on 9-10 June
     1992, with funding from the David and Lucile Packard Foundation.
     The document that follows represents a summary of the presentations
     made at the Workshop and was compiled by James DALY.  This
     introduction was written by DALY and Carl FLEISCHHAUER.


PRESERVATION AND IMAGING

Preservation, as that term is used by archivists,(3) was most explicitly
discussed in the context of imaging.  Anne KENNEY and Lynne PERSONIUS
explained how the concept of a faithful copy and the user-friendliness of
the traditional book have guided their project at Cornell University.(4)
Although interested in computerized dissemination, participants in the
Cornell project are creating digital image sets of older books in the
public domain as a source for a fresh paper facsimile or, in a future
phase, microfilm.  The books returned to the library shelves are
high-quality and useful replacements on acid-free paper that should last
a long time.  To date, the Cornell project has placed little or no
emphasis on creating searchable texts; one would not be surprised to find
that the project participants view such texts as new editions, and thus
not as faithful reproductions.

In her talk on preservation, Patricia BATTIN struck an ecumenical and
flexible note as she endorsed the creation and dissemination of a variety
of types of digital copies.  Do not be too narrow in defining what counts
as a preservation element, BATTIN counseled; for the present, at least,
digital copies made with preservation in mind cannot be as narrowly
standardized as, say, microfilm copies with the same objective.  Setting
standards precipitously can inhibit creativity, but delay can result in
chaos, she advised.

In part, BATTIN's position reflected the unsettled nature of image-format
standards, and attendees could hear echoes of this unsettledness in the
comments of various speakers.  For example, Jean BARONAS reviewed the
status of several formal standards moving through committees of experts;
and Clifford LYNCH encouraged the use of a new guideline for transmitting
document images on Internet.  Testimony from participants in the National
Agricultural Library's (NAL) Text Digitization Program and LC's American
Memory project highlighted some of the challenges to the actual creation
or interchange of images, including difficulties in converting
preservation microfilm to digital form.  Donald WATERS reported on the
progress of a master plan for a project at Yale University to convert
books on microfilm to digital image sets, Project Open Book (POB).

The Workshop offered rather less of an imaging practicum than planned,
but "how-to" hints emerge at various points, for example, throughout
KENNEY's presentation and in the discussion of arcana such as
thresholding and dithering offered by George THOMA and FLEISCHHAUER.

NOTES:
     (3)  Although there is a sense in which any reproductions of
     historical materials preserve the human record, specialists in the
     field have developed particular guidelines for the creation of
     acceptable preservation copies.

     (4)  Titles and affiliations of presenters are given at the
     beginning of their respective talks and in the Directory of
     Participants (Appendix III).


THE MACHINE-READABLE TEXT:  MARKUP AND USE

The sections of the Workshop that dealt with machine-readable text tended
to be more concerned with access and use than with preservation, at least
in the narrow technical sense.  Michael SPERBERG-McQUEEN made a forceful
presentation on the Text Encoding Initiative's (TEI) implementation of
the Standard Generalized Markup Language (SGML).  His ideas were echoed
by Susan HOCKEY, Elli MYLONAS, and Stuart WEIBEL.  While the
presentations made by the TEI advocates contained no practicum, their
discussion focused on the value of the finished product, what the
European Community calls reusability, but what may also be termed
durability.  They argued that marking up--that is, coding--a text in a
well-conceived way will permit it to be moved from one computer
environment to another, as well as to be used by various users.  Two
kinds of markup were distinguished:  1) procedural markup, which
describes the features of a text (e.g., dots on a page), and 2)
descriptive markup, which describes the structure or elements of a
document (e.g., chapters, paragraphs, and front matter).

The TEI proponents emphasized the importance of texts to scholarship.
They explained how heavily coded (and thus analyzed and annotated) texts
can underlie research, play a role in scholarly communication, and
facilitate classroom teaching.  SPERBERG-McQUEEN reminded listeners that
a written or printed item (e.g., a particular edition of a book) is
merely a representation of the abstraction we call a text.  To concern
ourselves with faithfully reproducing a printed instance of the text,
SPERBERG-McQUEEN argued, is to concern ourselves with the representation
of a representation ("images as simulacra for the text").  The TEI proponents'
interest in images tends to focus on corollary materials for use in teaching,
for example, photographs of the Acropolis to accompany a Greek text.

By the end of the Workshop, SPERBERG-McQUEEN confessed to having been
converted to a limited extent to the view that electronic images
constitute a promising alternative to microfilming; indeed, an
alternative probably superior to microfilming.  But he was not convinced
that electronic images constitute a serious attempt to represent text in
electronic form.  HOCKEY and MYLONAS also conceded that their experience
at the Pierce Symposium the previous week at Georgetown University and
the present conference at the Library of Congress had compelled them to
reevaluate their perspective on the usefulness of text as images.
Attendees could see that the text and image advocates were in
constructive tension, so to say.

Three nonTEI presentations described approaches to preparing
machine-readable text that are less rigorous and thus less expensive.  In
the case of the Papers of George Washington, Dorothy TWOHIG explained
that the digital version will provide a not-quite-perfect rendering of
the transcribed text--some 135,000 documents, available for research
during the decades while the perfect or print version is completed.
Members of the American Memory team and the staff of NAL's Text
Digitization Program (see below) also outlined a middle ground concerning
searchable texts.  In the case of American Memory, contractors produce
texts with about 99-percent accuracy that serve as "browse" or
"reference" versions of written or printed originals.  End users who need
faithful copies or perfect renditions must refer to accompanying sets of
digital facsimile images or consult copies of the originals in a nearby
library or archive.  American Memory staff argued that the high cost of
producing 100-percent accurate copies would prevent LC from offering
access to large parts of its collections.


THE MACHINE-READABLE TEXT:  METHODS OF CONVERSION

Although the Workshop did not include a systematic examination of the
methods for converting texts from paper (or from facsimile images) into
machine-readable form, nevertheless, various speakers touched upon this
matter.  For example, WEIBEL reported that OCLC has experimented with a
merging of multiple optical character recognition systems that will
reduce errors from an unacceptable rate of 5 characters out of every
l,000 to an unacceptable rate of 2 characters out of every l,000.

Pamela ANDRE presented an overview of NAL's Text Digitization Program and
Judith ZIDAR discussed the technical details.  ZIDAR explained how NAL
purchased hardware and software capable of performing optical character
recognition (OCR) and text conversion and used its own staff to convert
texts.  The process, ZIDAR said, required extensive editing and project
staff found themselves considering alternatives, including rekeying
and/or creating abstracts or summaries of texts.  NAL reckoned costs at
$7 per page.  By way of contrast, Ricky ERWAY explained that American
Memory had decided from the start to contract out conversion to external
service bureaus.  The criteria used to select these contractors were cost
and quality of results, as opposed to methods of conversion.  ERWAY noted
that historical documents or books often do not lend themselves to OCR.
Bound materials represent a special problem.  In her experience, quality
control--inspecting incoming materials, counting errors in samples--posed
the most time-consuming aspect of contracting out conversion.  ERWAY
reckoned American Memory's costs at $4 per page, but cautioned that fewer
cost-elements had been included than in NAL's figure.


OPTIONS FOR DISSEMINATION

The topic of dissemination proper emerged at various points during the
Workshop.  At the session devoted to national and international computer
networks, LYNCH, Howard BESSER, Ronald LARSEN, and Edwin BROWNRIGG
highlighted the virtues of Internet today and of the network that will
evolve from Internet.  Listeners could discern in these narratives a
vision of an information democracy in which millions of citizens freely
find and use what they need.  LYNCH noted that a lack of standards
inhibits disseminating multimedia on the network, a topic also WRHXFHHVW
YB YVHHVI.  OZIHVM ZWWIVHHVW GSV RHHFVH LU MVGDLIP HXZOZYRORGB ZMW
NLWFOZIRGB ZMW XLNNVMGVW FKLM GSV WRUURXFOGB LU ZMGRXRKZGRMT GSV VUUVXGH
LU TILDGS RM LIWVIH LU NZTMRGFWV.  YILDMIRTT GZOPVW ZYLFG GSV ZYRORGB LU
KZXPVG IZWRL GL KILERWV XVIGZRM ORMPH RM Z MVGDLIP DRGSLFG GSV MVVW ULI
DRIRMT.  SLDVEVI, GSV KIVHVMGVIH ZOHL XZOOVW ZGGVMGRLM GL GSV
HSLIGXLNRMTH ZMW RMXLMTIFRGRVH LU KIVHVMG-WZB XLNKFGVI MVGDLIPH.  ULI
VCZNKOV:  1) MVGDLIP FHV RH TILDRMT WIZNZGRXZOOB, YFG NFXS MVGDLIP
GIZUURX XLMHRHGH LU KVIHLMZO XLNNFMRXZGRLM (V-NZRO).  2) OZITV YLWRVH LU
RMULINZGRLM ZIV ZEZROZYOV, YFG Z FHVI'H ZYRORGB GL HVZIXS ZXILHH GSVRI
VMGRIVGB RH ORNRGVW.  3) GSVIV ZIV HRTMRURXZMG IVHLFIXVH ULI HXRVMXV ZMW
GVXSMLOLTB, YFG UVD MVGDLIP HLFIXVH KILERWV XLMGVMG RM GSV SFNZMRGRVH.
4) NZXSRMV-IVZWZYOV GVCGH ZIV XLNNLMKOZXV, YFG GSV XZKZYRORGB LU GSV
HBHGVN GL WVZO DRGS RNZTVH (OVG ZOLMV LGSVI NVWRZ ULINZGH) OZTH YVSRMW.
Z TORNKHV LU Z NFOGRNVWRZ UFGFIV ULI MVGDLIPH, SLDVEVI, DZH KILERWVW YB
NZIRZ OVYILM RM SVI LEVIERVD LU GSV LMORMV QLFIMZO LU XFIIVMG XORMRXZO
GIRZOH (LQXXG), ZMW GSV KILXVHH LU HXSLOZIOB KFYORHSRMT LM-ORMV.

GSV XLMGIZHGRMT ULIN LU GSV XW-ILN WRHP DZH MVEVI HBHGVNZGRXZOOB
ZMZOBAVW, YFG ZGGVMWVVH XLFOW TOVZM ZM RNKIVHHRLM UILN HVEVIZO LU GSV
HSLD-ZMW-GVOO KIVHVMGZGRLMH.  GSV KVIHVFH ZMW ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB VCZNKOVH
WVNLMHGIZGVW IVXVMGOB KFYORHSVW WRHPH, DSROV GSV WVHXIRKGRLMH LU GSV
RYBXFH EVIHRLM LU GSV KZKVIH LU TVLITV DZHSRMTGLM ZMW XSZWDBXP-SVZOVB'H
KZGILOLTRZ OZGRMZ WZGZYZHV (KOW) GLOW LU WRHPH GL XLNV.  ZXXLIWRMT GL
VIRX XZOZOFXZ, KOW'H KIRMXRKZO ULXFH SZH YVVM LM XLMEVIGRMT QZXJFVH-KZFO
NRTMV'H WVURMRGREV XLOOVXGRLM LU OZGRM GVCGH GL NZXSRMV-IVZWZYOV ULIN.
ZOGSLFTS VEVIBLMV XLFOW HSZIV GSV MVGDLIP ZWELXZGVH' VMGSFHRZHN ULI ZM
LM-ORMV UFGFIV, GSV KLHHRYRORGB LU ILOORMT FK LMV'H HOVVEVH ULI Z HVHHRLM
DRGS Z XW-ILN XLMGZRMRMT YLGS GVCGFZO NZGVIRZOH ZMW Z KLDVIUFO IVGIRVEZO
VMTRMV NZWV GSV WRHP HVVN ZM ZKKVZORMT EVHHVO RMWVVW.  GSV LEVIZOO
WRHXFHHRLM HFTTVHGVW GSZG GSV GIZMHRGRLM UILN XW-ILN GL LM-ORMV MVGDLIPVW
ZXXVHH NZB KILEV UZI HOLDVI ZMW NLIV WRUURXFOG GSZM SZH YVVM ZMGRXRKZGVW.


DSL ZIV GSV FHVIH ZMW DSZG WL GSVB WL?

ZOGSLFTS XLMXVIMVW DRGS GSV GVXSMRXZORGRVH LU KILWFXGRLM, GSV DLIPHSLK
MVEVI OLHG HRTSG LU GSV KFIKLHVH ZMW FHVH LU VOVXGILMRX EVIHRLMH LU
GVCGFZO NZGVIRZOH.  ZH MLGVW ZYLEV, GSLHV RMGVIVHGVW RM RNZTRMT WRHXFHHVW
GSV KILYOVNZGRXZO NZGGVI LU WRTRGZO KIVHVIEZGRLM, DSROV GSV GVR KILKLMVMGH
WVHXIRYVW SLD NZXSRMV-IVZWZYOV GVCGH XZM YV FHVW RM IVHVZIXS.  GSRH OZGGVI
GLKRX IVXVREVW GSLILFTS GIVZGNVMG RM GSV KZKVI IVZW YB ZEIZ NRXSVOHLM.
HSV KOZXVW GSV KSVMLNVMLM LU VOVXGILMRX GVCGH DRGSRM GSV XLMGVCG LU
YILZWVI GIVMWH RM RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTB ZMW HXSLOZIOB XLNNFMRXZGRLM.

ZNLMT LGSVI GSRMTH, NRXSVOHLM WVHXIRYVW LM-ORMV XLMUVIVMXVH GSZG
IVKIVHVMG Z ERTLILFH ZMW RNKLIGZMG RMGVOOVXGFZO ULIFN ULI XVIGZRM
WRHXRKORMVH.  RMGVIMVG MLD XZIIRVH NLIV GSZM 700 XLMUVIVMXVH, DRGS ZYLFG
80 KVIXVMG LU GSVHV WVELGVW GL GLKRXH RM GSV HLXRZO HXRVMXVH ZMW GSV
SFNZMRGRVH.  LGSVI HXSLOZIH FHV LM-ORMV MVGDLIPH ULI "WRHGZMXV OVZIMRMT."
NVZMDSROV, GSVIV SZH YVVM Z GIVNVMWLFH TILDGS RM VMW-FHVI XLNKFGRMT;
KILUVHHLIH GLWZB ZIV OVHH ORPVOB GSZM GSVRI KIVWVXVHHLIH GL ZHP GSV
XZNKFH XLNKFGVI XVMGVI GL KILXVHH GSVRI WZGZ.  VOVXGILMRX GVCGH ZIV LMV
PVB GL GSVHV HLKSRHGRXZGVW ZKKORXZGRLMH, NRXSVOHLM IVKLIGVW, ZMW NLIV ZMW
NLIV HXSLOZIH RM GSV SFNZMRGRVH MLD DLIP RM ZM LM-ORMV VMERILMNVMG.
GLDZIW GSV VMW LU GSV DLIPHSLK, NRXSZVO OVHP KIVHVMGVW Z XLILOOZIB GL
NRXSVOHLM'H GZOP, IVKLIGRMT GSV IVHFOGH LU ZM VCKVIRNVMG GSZG XLNKZIVW
GSV DLIP LU LMV TILFK LU XSVNRHGIB HGFWVMGH FHRMT GIZWRGRLMZO KIRMGVW
GVCGH ZMW GDL TILFKH FHRMT VOVXGILMRX HLFIXVH.  GSV VCKVIRNVMG
WVNLMHGIZGVW GSZG RM GSV VEVMG LMV WLVH MLG PMLD DSZG GL IVZW, LMV MVVWH
GSV VOVXGILMRX HBHGVNH; GSV VOVXGILMRX HBHGVNH SLOW ML ZWEZMGZTV ZG GSV
NLNVMG RU LMV PMLDH DSZG GL IVZW, YFG MVRGSVI WL GSVB RNKLHV Z KVMZOGB.

WZOB KILERWVW ZM ZMVXWLGZO ZXXLFMG LU GSV IVELOFGRLMRARMT RNKZXG LU GSV
MVD GVXSMLOLTB LM SRH KIVERLFH NVGSLWH LU IVHVZIXS RM GSV URVOW LU XOZHHRXH.
SRH ZXXLFMG, YB VCGIZKLOZGRLM, HVIEVW GL ROOFHGIZGV RM KZIG GSV ZITFNVMGH
NZWV YB NRXSVOHLM XLMXVIMRMT GSV KLHRGREV VUUVXGH LU GSV HFWWVM ZMW IZWRXZO
GIZMHULINZGRLM YVRMT DILFTSG RM GSV DZBH HXSLOZIH DLIP.

HFHZM EVXXRZ ZMW QLZMMV UIVVNZM WVORMVZGVW GSV FHV LU VOVXGILMRX
NZGVIRZOH LFGHRWV GSV FMREVIHRGB.  GSV NLHG RMGVIVHGRMT ZHKVXG LU GSVRI
FHV, UIVVNZM HZRW, XLFOW YV HVVM ZH Z KZIZWLC:  GVZXSVIH RM VOVNVMGZIB
ZMW HVXLMWZIB HXSLLOH IVJFVHGVW ZXXVHH GL KIRNZIB HLFIXV NZGVIRZOH YFG,
ZG GSV HZNV GRNV, ULFMW GSZG "KIRNZIRMVHH" RGHVOU NZWV GSVHV NZGVIRZOH
WRUURXFOG ULI GSVRI HGFWVMGH GL FHV.


LGSVI GLKRXH

NZIBYVGS KVGVIH IVERVDVW XLKBIRTSG OZD RM GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH ZMW LUUVIVW
ZWERXV WFIRMT Z OREVOB WRHXFHHRLM LU GSRH HFYQVXG.  YFG FMXVIGZRMGB
IVNZRMH XLMXVIMRMT GSV KIRXV LU XLKBIRTSG RM Z WRTRGZO NVWRFN, YVXZFHV Z
HLOFGRLM IVNZRMH GL YV DLIPVW LFG XLMXVIMRMT NZMZTVNVMG ZMW HBMGSVHRH LU
XLKBIRTSGVW ZMW LFG-LU-XLKBIRTSG KRVXVH LU Z WZGZYZHV.

ZH NLWVIZGLI LU GSV URMZO HVHHRLM LU GSV DLIPHSLK, KILHHVI TRUULIW WRIVXGVW
WRHXFHHRLM GL UFGFIV XLFIHVH LU ZXGRLM ZMW GSV KLGVMGRZO ILOV LU OX RM
ZWEZMXRMT GSVN.  ZNLMT GSV IVXLNNVMWZGRLMH GSZG VNVITVW DVIV GSV ULOOLDRMT:

     * DLIPHSLK KZIGRXRKZMGH HSLFOW 1) YVTRM GL GSRMP ZYLFG DLIPRMT
     DRGS RNZTV NZGVIRZO, YFG HGIFXGFIV ZMW WRTRGRAV RG RM HFXS Z
     DZB GSZG ZG Z OZGVI HGZTV RG XZM YV RMGVIKIVGVW RMGL GVCG, ZMW
     2) URMW Z XLNNLM DZB GL YFROW GVCG ZMW RNZTVH GLTVGSVI HL GSZG
     GSVB XZM YV FHVW QLRMGOB ZG HLNV HGZTV RM GSV UFGFIV, DRGS
     ZKKILKIRZGV MVGDLIP HFKKLIG, YVXZFHV GSZG RH SLD FHVIH DROO DZMG
     GL ZXXVHH GSVHV NZGVIRZOH.  GSV ORYIZIB NRTSG VMXLFIZTV ZGGVNKGH
     GL YIRMT GLTVGSVI KVLKOV DSL ZIV DLIPRMT LM GVCGH ZMW RNZTVH.

     * Z MVGDLIP EVIHRLM LU ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB HSLFOW YV WVEVOLKVW LI
     XLMHRWVIZGRLM HSLFOW YV TREVM GL NZPRMT GSV WZGZ RM RG
     ZEZROZYOV GL KVLKOV RMGVIVHGVW RM WLRMT MVGDLIP NFOGRNVWRZ.
     TREVM GSV XFIIVMG WVZIGS LU WRTRGZO WZGZ GSZG RH ZKKVZORMT ZMW
     FMVMXFNYVIVW YB VCGIVNVOB XLNKOVC IRTSGH KILYOVNH, WVEVOLKRMT Z
     MVGDLIP EVIHRLM LU ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB XLFOW WL NFXS GL SVOK NZPV
     MVGDLIP NFOGRNVWRZ Z IVZORGB.

     * XLMXVIMRMT GSV GSLIMB RHHFV LU VOVXGILMRX WVKLHRG, OX HSLFOW
     RMRGRZGV Z XZGZOBGRX KILXVHH RM GVINH LU WRHGIRYFGVW
     IVHKLMHRYRORGB, GSZG RH, YIRMT GLTVGSVI GSV WRHGIRYFGVW
     LITZMRAZGRLMH ZMW HVG FK Z HGFWB TILFK GL OLLP ZG ZOO GSV
     RHHFVH IVOZGVW GL VOVXGILMRX WVKLHRG ZMW HVV DSVIV DV ZH Z
     MZGRLM HSLFOW NLEV.  ULI VCZNKOV, OX NRTSG ZGGVNKG GL KVIHFZWV
     LMV NZQLI ORYIZIB RM VZXS HGZGV GL WVZO DRGS RGH HGZGV
     VJFREZOVMG KFYORHSVI, DSRXS NRTSG KILWFXV Z XLLKVIZGREV KILQVXG
     GSZG DLFOW YV VJFRGZYOB WRHGIRYFGVW ZILFMW GSV XLFMGIB, ZMW LMV
     RM DSRXS OX DLFOW YV WVZORMT DRGS Z NRMRNZO MFNYVI LU KFYORHSVIH
     ZMW NRMRNZO XLKBIRTSG KILYOVNH.  OX NFHG ZOHL WVZO DRGS GSV
     XLMXVKG LU LM-ORMV KFYORHSRMT, WVGVINRMRMT, ZNLMT LGSVI GSRMTH,
     SLD HVIRZOH HFXS ZH LQXXG NRTSG YV WVKLHRGVW ULI XLKBIRTSG.

     * HRMXV Z MFNYVI LU KILQVXGH ZIV KOZMMRMT GL XZIIB LFG
     KIVHVIEZGRLM YB XIVZGRMT WRTRGZO RNZTVH GSZG DROO VMW FK RM
     LM-ORMV LI MVZI-ORMV HGLIZTV ZG HLNV RMHGRGFGRLM, OX NRTSG KOZB
     Z SVOKUFO ILOV, ZG OVZHG RM GSV MVZI GVIN, YB ZXXVOVIZGRMT SLD
     GL XZGZOLT GSZG RMULINZGRLM RMGL GSV IVHVZIXS ORYIZIB RMULINZGRLM
     MVGDLIP (IORM) ZMW GSVM RMGL LXOX, HL GSZG RG DLFOW YV ZXXVHHRYOV.
     GSRH DLFOW IVWFXV GSV KLHHRYRORGB LU NFOGRKOV RMHGRGFGRLMH WRTRGRARMT
     GSV HZNV DLIP.


XLMXOFHRLM

GSV DLIPHSLK DZH EZOFZYOV YVXZFHV RG YILFTSG GLTVGSVI KZIGRHZMH UILN
EZIRLFH TILFKH ZMW KILERWVW ZM LXXZHRLM GL XLNKZIV TLZOH ZMW NVGSLWH.
GSV NLIV XLNNRGGVW KZIGRHZMH UIVJFVMGOB XLNNFMRXZGV DRGS LGSVIH RM GSVRI
TILFKH, YFG OVHH LUGVM ZXILHH TILFK YLFMWZIRVH.  GSV DLIPHSLK DZH ZOHL
EZOFZYOV GL ZGGVMWVVH--RMXOFWRMT GSLHV RMELOEVW DRGS ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB--DSL
XZNV OVHH XLNNRGGVW GL KZIGRXFOZI ZKKILZXSVH LI XLMXVKGH.  GSVHV
ZGGVMWVVH OVZIMVW Z TIVZG WVZO, ZMW KOZM GL HVOVXG ZMW VNKOLB VOVNVMGH LU
RNZTRMT, GVCG-XLWRMT, ZMW MVGDLIPVW WRHGIRYFGRLM GSZG HFRG GSVRI
IVHKVXGREV KILQVXGH ZMW KFIKLHVH.

HGROO, IVZORGB IVZIH RGH FTOB SVZW:  ML YIVZPGSILFTS SZH YVVM ZXSRVEVW.
LM GSV RNZTRMT HRWV, LMV XLMUILMGH Z KILORUVIZGRLM LU XLNKVGRMT
WZGZ-RMGVIXSZMTV HGZMWZIWH ZMW Z OZXP LU XLMHVMHFH LM GSV ILOV LU WRTRGZO
UZXHRNROVH RM KIVHVIEZGRLM.  RM GSV IVZON LU NZXSRMV-IVZWZYOV GVCGH, LMV
VMXLFMGVIH Z IVZHLMZYOB NZGFIV HGZMWZIW YFG NVGSLWLOLTRXZO WRUURXFOGRVH
ZMW SRTS XLHGH.  GSVHV OZGGVI KILYOVNH, LU XLFIHV, IVKIVHVMG Z HKVXRZO
RNKVWRNVMG GL GSV WVHRIV, ZH RG RH HLNVGRNVH VCKIVHHVW RM GSV KLKFOZI
KIVHH, "GL KFG GSV [XLMGVMGH LU GSV] ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH LM ORMV."  RM
GSV DLIWH LU LMV KZIGRXRKZMG, GSVIV DZH "ML HLOFGRLM GL GSV VXLMLNRX
KILYOVNH--GSV KILQVXGH GSZG ZIV LFG GSVIV ZIV HFIERERMT, YFG RG RH TLRMT
GL YV Z OLG LU DLIP GL GIZMHULIN GSV RMULINZGRLM RMWFHGIB, ZMW HL UZI GSV
RMEVHGNVMG GL WL GSZG RH MLG ULIGSXLNRMT" (OVHP, KVI ORGGVIZH).


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                               KILXVVWRMTH


DVOXLNV

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
TRUULIW * LIRTRM LU DLIPHSLK RM XFIIVMG ORYIZIRZM'H WVHRIV GL NZPV OX'H
XLOOVXGRLMH NLIV DRWVOB ZEZROZYOV * WVHRWVIZGZ ZIRHRMT UILN GSV KILHKVXG
LU TIVZGVI RMGVIXLMMVXGVWMVHH *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

ZUGVI DVOXLNRMT KZIGRXRKZMGH LM YVSZOU LU GSV ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH,
ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB (ZN), ZMW GSV MZGRLMZO WVNLMHGIZGRLM OZY, KILHHVI
TRUULIW, WRIVXGLI ULI HXSLOZIOB KILTIZNH, ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH, OLXZGVW
