primarily, and what has been accomplished.  Directly funded by the
Commission on Preservation and Access and by the Xerox Corporation, which
has provided a significant amount of hardware, the CLASS Project has been
working with a development team at Xerox to develop a software
application tailored to library preservation requirements.  Within
Cornell, participants in the project have been working jointly with both
library and information technologies.  The focus of the project has been
on reformatting and saving books that are in brittle condition.
PERSONIUS showed Workshop participants a brittle book, and described how
such books were the result of developments in papermaking around the
beginning of the Industrial Revolution.  The papermaking process was
changed so that a significant amount of acid was introduced into the
actual paper itself, which deteriorates as it sits on library shelves.

One of the advantages for technology and for the CLASS Project is that
the information in brittle books is mostly out of copyright and thus
offers an opportunity to work with material that requires library
preservation, and to create and work on an infrastructure to save the
material.  Acknowledging the familiarity of those working in preservation
with this information, PERSONIUS noted that several things are being
done:  the primary preservation technology used today is photocopying of
brittle material.  Saving the intellectual content of the material is the
main goal.  With microfilm copy, the intellectual content is preserved on
the assumption that in the future the image can be reformatted in any
other way that then exists.

An underlying assumption of the CLASS Project from the beginning was
that it would develop a network application.  Project staff scan books
at a workstation located in the library, near the brittle material.
An image-server filing system is located at a distance from that
workstation, and a printer is located in another building.  All of the
materials digitized and stored on the image-filing system are cataloged
in the on-line catalogue.  In fact, a record for each of these electronic
books is stored in the RLIN database so that a record exists of what is
in the digital library throughout standard catalogue procedures.  In the
future, researchers working from their own workstations in their offices,
or their networks, will have access--wherever they might be--through a
request server being built into the new digital library.  A second
assumption is that the preferred means of finding the material will be by
looking through a catalogue.  PERSONIUS described the scanning process,
which uses a prototype scanner being developed by Xerox and which scans a
very high resolution image at great speed.  Another significant feature,
because this is a preservation application, is the placing of the pages
that fall apart one for one on the platen.  Ordinarily, a scanner could
be used with some sort of a document feeder, but because of this
application that is not feasible.  Further, because CLASS is a
preservation application, after the paper replacement is made there, a
very careful quality control check is performed.  An original book is
compared to the printed copy and verification is made, before proceeding,
that all of the image, all of the information, has been captured.  Then,
a new library book is produced:  The printed images are rebound by a
commercial binder and a new book is returned to the shelf.
Significantly, the books returned to the library shelves are beautiful
and useful replacements on acid-free paper that should last a long time,
in effect, the equivalent of preservation photocopies.  Thus, the project
has a library of digital books.  In essence, CLASS is scanning and
storing books as 600 dot-per-inch bit-mapped images, compressed using
Group 4 CCITT (i.e., the French acronym for International Consultative
Committee for Telegraph and Telephone) compression.  They are stored as
TIFF files on an optical filing system that is composed of a database
used for searching and locating the books and an optical jukebox that
stores 64 twelve-inch platters.  A very-high-resolution printed copy of
these books at 600 dots per inch is created, using a Xerox DocuTech
KIRMGVI GL NZPV GSV KZKVI IVKOZXVNVMGH LM ZXRW-UIVV KZKVI.

KVIHLMRFH NZRMGZRMVW GSZG GSV XOZHH KILQVXG KIVHVMGH ZM LKKLIGFMRGB GL
RMGILWFXV KVLKOV GL YLLPH ZH WRTRGZO RNZTVH YB FHRMT Z KZKVI NVWRFN.
YLLPH ZIV IVGFIMVW GL GSV HSVOEVH DSROV KVLKOV ZIV ZOHL TREVM GSV ZYRORGB
GL KIRMG LM WVNZMW--GL NZPV GSVRI LDM XLKRVH LU YLLPH.  (KVIHLMRFH
WRHGIRYFGVW XLKRVH LU ZM VMTRMVVIRMT QLFIMZO KFYORHSVW YB VMTRMVVIRMT
HGFWVMGH ZG XLIMVOO ZILFMW 1900 ZH ZM VCZNKOV LU DSZG Z KIRMG-LM-WVNZMW
XLKB LU NZGVIRZO NRTSG YV ORPV.  GSRH EVIB XSVZK XLKB DLFOW YV ZEZROZYOV
GL KVLKOV GL FHV ULI GSVRI LDM IVHVZIXS KFIKLHVH ZMW DLFOW YIRWTV GSV TZK
YVGDVVM ZM VOVXGILMRX DLIP ZMW GSV KZKVI GSZG IVZWVIH ORPV GL SZEV.)
KVIHLMRFH GSVM ZGGVNKGVW GL ROOFHGIZGV Z EVIB VZIOB KILGLGBKV LU
MVGDLIPVW ZXXVHH GL GSRH WRTRGZO ORYIZIB.  CVILC XLIKLIZGRLM SZH
WVEVOLKVW Z KILGLGBKV LU Z ERVD HGZGRLM GSZG XZM HVMW RNZTVH ZXILHH GSV
MVGDLIP GL YV ERVDVW.

GSV KZIGRXFOZI ORYIZIB YILFTSG WLDM ULI WVNLMHGIZGRLM XLMGZRMVW GDL
NZGSVNZGRXH YLLPH.  XOZHH RH WVEVOLKRMT ZMW DROO HKVMW GSV MVCG BVZI
WVEVOLKRMT ZM ZKKORXZGRLM GSZG ZOOLDH KVLKOV ZG DLIPHGZGRLMH GL YILDHV
GSV YLLPH.  GSFH, XOZHH RH WVEVOLKRMT Z YILDHRMT GLLO, LM GSV ZHHFNKGRLM
GSZG FHVIH WL MLG DZMG GL IVZW ZM VMGRIV YLLP UILN Z DLIPHGZGRLM, YFG
DLFOW KIVUVI GL YV ZYOV GL OLLP GSILFTS ZMW WVXRWV RU GSVB DLFOW ORPV GL
SZEV Z KIRMGVW XLKB LU RG.

                                 ******

