DISCUSSION * Re retrieval software * "Digital file copyright" * Scanning
rate during production * Autosegmentation * Criteria employed in
selecting books for scanning * Compression and decompression of images *
OCR not precluded *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the question-and-answer period that followed her presentation,
PERSONIUS made these additional points:

     * Re retrieval software, Cornell is developing a Unix-based server
     as well as clients for the server that support multiple platforms
     (Macintosh, IBM and Sun workstations), in the hope that people from
     any of those platforms will retrieve books; a further operating
     assumption is that standard interfaces will be used as much as
     possible, where standards can be put in place, because CLASS
     considers this retrieval software a library application and would
     like to be able to look at material not only at Cornell but at other
     institutions.

     * The phrase "digital file copyright by Cornell University" was
     added at the advice of Cornell's legal staff with the caveat that it
     probably would not hold up in court.  Cornell does not want people
     to copy its books and sell them but would like to keep them
     available for use in a library environment for library purposes.

     * In production the scanner can scan about 300 pages per hour,
     capturing 600 dots per inch.

     * The Xerox software has filters to scan halftone material and avoid
     the moire patterns that occur when halftone material is scanned.
     Xerox has been working on hardware and software that would enable
     the scanner itself to recognize this situation and deal with it
     appropriately--a kind of autosegmentation that would enable the
     scanner to handle halftone material as well as text on a single page.

     * The books subjected to the elaborate process described above were
     selected because CLASS is a preservation project, with the first 500
     books selected coming from Cornell's mathematics collection, because
     they were still being heavily used and because, although they were
     in need of preservation, the mathematics library and the mathematics
     faculty were uncomfortable having them microfilmed.  (They wanted a
     printed copy.)  Thus, these books became a logical choice for this
     project.  Other books were chosen by the project's selection committees
     for experiments with the technology, as well as to meet a demand or need.

     * Images will be decompressed before they are sent over the line; at
     this time they are compressed and sent to the image filing system
     and then sent to the printer as compressed images; they are returned
     to the workstation as compressed 600-dpi images and the workstation
     decompresses and scales them for display--an inefficient way to
     access the material though it works quite well for printing and
     other purposes.

     * CLASS is also decompressing on Macintosh and IBM, a slow process
     right now.  Eventually, compression and decompression will take
     place on an image conversion server.  Trade-offs will be made, based
     on future performance testing, concerning where the file is
     compressed and what resolution image is sent.

     * OCR has not been precluded; images are being stored that have been
     scanned at a high resolution, which presumably would suit them well
     to an OCR process.  Because the material being scanned is about 100
     years old and was printed with less-than-ideal technologies, very
     early and preliminary tests have not produced good results.  But the
     project is capturing an image that is of sufficient resolution to be
     subjected to OCR in the future.  Moreover, the system architecture
     and the system plan have a logical place to store an OCR image if it
     has been captured.  But that is not being done now.

                                 ******

SESSION III.  DISTRIBUTION, NETWORKS, AND NETWORKING:  OPTIONS FOR
DISSEMINATION

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
ZICH * Issues pertaining to CD-ROMs * Options for publishing in CD-ROM *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Robert ZICH, special assistant to the associate librarian for special
projects, Library of Congress, and moderator of this session, first noted
the blessed but somewhat awkward circumstance of having four very
distinguished people representing networks and networking or at least
leaning in that direction, while lacking anyone to speak from the
strongest possible background in CD-ROMs.  ZICH expressed the hope that
members of the audience would join the discussion.  He stressed the
subtitle of this particular session, "Options for Dissemination," and,
concerning CD-ROMs, the importance of determining when it would be wise
to consider dissemination in CD-ROM versus networks.  A shopping list of
issues pertaining to CD-ROMs included:  the grounds for selecting
commercial publishers, and in-house publication where possible versus
nonprofit or government publication.  A similar list for networks
included:  determining when one should consider dissemination through a
network, identifying the mechanisms or entities that exist to place items
on networks, identifying the pool of existing networks, determining how a
producer  would choose between networks, and identifying the elements of
a business arrangement in a network.

Options for publishing in CD-ROM:  an outside publisher versus
self-publication.  If an outside publisher is used, it can be nonprofit,
such as the Government Printing Office (GPO) or the National Technical
Information Service (NTIS), in the case of government.  The pros and cons
associated with employing an outside publisher are obvious.  Among the
pros, there is no trouble getting accepted.  One pays the bill and, in
effect, goes one's way.  Among the cons, when one pays an outside
publisher to perform the work, that publisher will perform the work it is
obliged to do, but perhaps without the production expertise and skill in
marketing and dissemination that some would seek.  There is the body of
commercial publishers that do possess that kind of expertise in
distribution and marketing but that obviously are selective.  In
self-publication, one exercises full control, but then one must handle
matters such as distribution and marketing.  Such are some of the options
for publishing in the case of CD-ROM.

In the case of technical and design issues, which are also important,
there are many matters which many at the Workshop already knew a good
deal about:  retrieval system requirements and costs, what to do about
images, the various capabilities and platforms, the trade-offs between
cost and performance, concerns about local-area networkability,
interoperability, etc.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
LYNCH * Creating networked information is different from using networks
as an access or dissemination vehicle * Networked multimedia on a large
scale does not yet work * Typical CD-ROM publication model a two-edged
sword * Publishing information on a CD-ROM in the present world of
immature standards * Contrast between CD-ROM and network pricing *
Examples demonstrated earlier in the day as a set of insular information
gems * Paramount need to link databases * Layering to become increasingly
necessary * Project NEEDS and the issues of information reuse and active
versus passive use * X-Windows as a way of differentiating between
network access and networked information * Barriers to the distribution
of networked multimedia information * Need for good, real-time delivery
protocols * The question of presentation integrity in client-server
computing in the academic world * Recommendations for producing multimedia
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Clifford LYNCH, director, Library Automation, University of California,
opened his talk with the general observation that networked information
constituted a difficult and elusive topic because it is something just
starting to develop and not yet fully understood.  LYNCH contended that
creating genuinely networked information was different from using
networks as an access or dissemination vehicle and was more sophisticated
and more subtle.  He invited the members of the audience to extrapolate,
from what they heard about the preceding demonstration projects, to what
sort of a world of electronics information--scholarly, archival,
cultural, etc.--they wished to end up with ten or fifteen years from now.
LYNCH suggested that to extrapolate directly from these projects would
produce unpleasant results.

Putting the issue of CD-ROM in perspective before getting into
generalities on networked information, LYNCH observed that those engaged
in multimedia today who wish to ship a product, so to say, probably do
not have much choice except to use CD-ROM:  networked multimedia on a
large scale basically does not yet work because the technology does not
exist.  For example, anybody who has tried moving images around over the
Internet knows that this is an exciting touch-and-go process, a
fascinating and fertile area for experimentation, research, and
development, but not something that one can become deeply enthusiastic
about committing to production systems at this time.

This situation will change, LYNCH said.  He differentiated CD-ROM from
the practices that have been followed up to now in distributing data on
CD-ROM.  For LYNCH the problem with CD-ROM is not its portability or its
slowness but the two-edged sword of having the retrieval application and
the user interface inextricably bound up with the data, which is the
typical CD-ROM publication model.  It is not a case of publishing data
but of distributing a typically stand-alone, typically closed system,
all--software, user interface, and data--on a little disk.  Hence, all
the between-disk navigational issues as well as the impossibility in most
cases of integrating data on one disk with that on another.  Most CD-ROM
retrieval software does not network very gracefully at present.  However,
in the present world of immature standards and lack of understanding of
what network information is or what the ground rules are for creating or
using it, publishing information on a CD-ROM does add value in a very
real sense.

LYNCH drew a contrast between CD-ROM and network pricing and in doing so
highlighted something bizarre in information pricing.  A large
institution such as the University of California has vendors who will
offer to sell information on CD-ROM for a price per year in four digits,
but for the same data (e.g., an abstracting and indexing database) on
magnetic tape, regardless of how many people may use it concurrently,
will quote a price in six digits.

What is packaged with the CD-ROM in one sense adds value--a complete
access system, not just raw, unrefined information--although it is not
generally perceived that way.  This is because the access software,
although it adds value, is viewed by some people, particularly in the
university environment where there is a very heavy commitment to
networking, as being developed in the wrong direction.

Given that context, LYNCH described the examples demonstrated as a set of
insular information gems--Perseus, for example, offers nicely linked
information, but would be very difficult to integrate with other
databases, that is, to link together seamlessly with other source files
from other sources.  It resembles an island, and in this respect is
similar to numerous stand-alone projects that are based on videodiscs,
that is, on the single-workstation concept.

As scholarship evolves in a network environment, the paramount need will
be to link databases.  We must link personal databases to public
databases, to group databases, in fairly seamless ways--which is
extremely difficult in the environments under discussion with copies of
databases proliferating all over the place.

The notion of layering also struck LYNCH as lurking in several of the
projects demonstrated.  Several databases in a sense constitute
information archives without a significant amount of navigation built in.
Educators, critics, and others will want a layered structure--one that
defines or links paths through the layers to allow users to reach
specific points.  In LYNCH's view, layering will become increasingly
necessary, and not just within a single resource but across resources
(e.g., tracing mythology and cultural themes across several classics
databases as well as a database of Renaissance culture).  This ability to
organize resources, to build things out of multiple other things on the
network or select pieces of it, represented for LYNCH one of the key
aspects of network information.

Contending that information reuse constituted another significant issue,
LYNCH commended to the audience's attention Project NEEDS (i.e., National
Engineering Education Delivery System).  This project's objective is to
produce a database of engineering courseware as well as the components
that can be used to develop new courseware.  In a number of the existing
applications, LYNCH said, the issue of reuse (how much one can take apart
and reuse in other applications) was not being well considered.  He also
raised the issue of active versus passive use, one aspect of which  is
how much information will be manipulated locally by users.  Most people,
he argued, may do a little browsing and then will wish to print.  LYNCH
was uncertain how these resources would be used by the vast majority of
users in the network environment.

LYNCH next said a few words about X-Windows as a way of differentiating
between network access and networked information.  A number of the
applications demonstrated at the Workshop could be rewritten to use X
across the network, so that one could run them from any X-capable device-
-a workstation, an X terminal--and transact with a database across the
network.  Although this opens up access a little, assuming one has enough
network to handle it, it does not provide an interface to develop a
program that conveniently integrates information from multiple databases.
X is a viewing technology that has limits.  In a real sense, it is just a
graphical version of remote log-in across the network.  X-type applications
represent only one step in the progression towards real access.

LYNCH next discussed barriers to the distribution of networked multimedia
information.  The heart of the problem is a lack of standards to provide
the ability for computers to talk to each other, retrieve information,
and shuffle it around fairly casually.  At the moment, little progress is
being made on standards for networked information; for example, present
standards do not cover images, digital voice, and digital video.  A
useful tool kit of exchange formats for basic texts is only now being
assembled.  The synchronization of content streams (i.e., synchronizing a
voice track to a video track, establishing temporal relations between
different components in a multimedia object) constitutes another issue
for networked multimedia that is just beginning to receive attention.

Underlying network protocols also need some work; good, real-time
delivery protocols on the Internet do not yet exist.  In LYNCH's view,
highly important in this context is the notion of networked digital
object IDs, the ability of one object on the network to point to another
object (or component thereof) on the network.  Serious bandwidth issues
also exist.  LYNCH was uncertain if billion-bit-per-second networks would
prove sufficient if numerous people ran video in parallel.

LYNCH concluded by offering an issue for database creators to consider,
as well as several comments about what might constitute good trial
multimedia experiments.  In a networked information world the database
builder or service builder (publisher) does not exercise the same
extensive control over the integrity of the presentation; strange
programs "munge" with one's data before the user sees it.  Serious
thought must be given to what guarantees integrity of presentation.  Part
of that is related to where one draws the boundaries around a networked
information service.  This question of presentation integrity in
client-server computing has not been stressed enough in the academic
world, LYNCH argued, though commercial service providers deal with it
regularly.

Concerning multimedia, LYNCH observed that good multimedia at the moment
is hideously expensive to produce.  He recommended producing multimedia
with either very high sale value, or multimedia with a very long life
span, or multimedia that will have a very broad usage base and whose
costs therefore can be amortized among large numbers of users.  In this
connection, historical and humanistically oriented material may be a good
place to start, because it tends to have a longer life span than much of
the scientific material, as well as a wider user base.  LYNCH noted, for
example, that American Memory fits many of the criteria outlined.  He
remarked the extensive discussion about bringing the Internet or the
National Research and Education Network (NREN) into the K-12 environment
as a way of helping the American educational system.

LYNCH closed by noting that the kinds of applications demonstrated struck
him as excellent justifications of broad-scale networking for K-12, but
that at this time no "killer" application exists to mobilize the K-12
community to obtain connectivity.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Dearth of genuinely interesting applications on the network
a slow-changing situation * The issue of the integrity of presentation in
a networked environment * Several reasons why CD-ROM software does not
network *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the discussion period that followed LYNCH's presentation, several
additional points were made.

LYNCH reiterated even more strongly his contention that, historically,
once one goes outside high-end science and the group of those who need
access to supercomputers, there is a great dearth of genuinely
interesting applications on the network.  He saw this situation changing
slowly, with some of the scientific databases and scholarly discussion
groups and electronic journals coming on as well as with the availability
of Wide Area Information Servers (WAIS) and some of the databases that
are being mounted there.  However, many of those things do not seem to
have piqued great popular interest.  For instance, most high school
students of LYNCH's acquaintance would not qualify as devotees of serious
molecular biology.

Concerning the issue of the integrity of presentation, LYNCH believed
that a couple of information providers have laid down the law at least on
certain things.  For example, his recollection was that the National
Library of Medicine feels strongly that one needs to employ the
identifier field if he or she is to mount a database commercially.  The
problem with a real networked environment is that one does not know who
is reformatting and reprocessing one's data when one enters a client
server mode.  It becomes anybody's guess, for example, if the network
uses a Z39.50 server, or what clients are doing with one's data.  A data
provider can say that his contract will only permit clients to have
access to his data after he vets them and their presentation and makes
certain it suits him.  But LYNCH held out little expectation that the
network marketplace would evolve in that way, because it required too
much prior negotiation.

CD-ROM software does not network for a variety of reasons, LYNCH said.
He speculated that CD-ROM publishers are not eager to have their products
really hook into wide area networks, because they fear it will make their
data suppliers nervous.  Moreover, until relatively recently, one had to
be rather adroit to run a full TCP/IP stack plus applications on a
PC-size machine, whereas nowadays it is becoming easier as PCs grow
bigger and faster.  LYNCH also speculated that software providers had not
heard from their customers until the last year or so, or had not heard
from enough of their customers.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
BESSER * Implications of disseminating images on the network; planning
the distribution of multimedia documents poses two critical
implementation problems * Layered approach represents the way to deal
with users' capabilities * Problems in platform design; file size and its
implications for networking * Transmission of megabyte size images
impractical * CompressioM ZMW WVXLNKIVHHRLM ZG GSV FHVI'H VMW * KILNRHRMT
GIVMWH ULI XLNKIVHHRLM * Z WRHZWEZMGZTV LU FHRMT C-DRMWLDH * Z KILQVXG ZG
GSV HNRGSHLMRZM GSZG NLFMGH RNZTVH LM HVEVIZO MVGDLIPH *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

SLDZIW YVHHVI, HXSLLO LU ORYIZIB ZMW RMULINZGRLM HXRVMXV, FMREVIHRGB LU
KRGGHYFITS, HKLPV KIRNZIROB ZYLFG NFOGRNVWRZ, ULXFHRMT LM RNZTVH ZMW GSV
YILZW RNKORXZGRLMH LU WRHHVNRMZGRMT GSVN LM GSV MVGDLIP.  SV ZITFVW GSZG
KOZMMRMT GSV WRHGIRYFGRLM LU NFOGRNVWRZ WLXFNVMGH KLHVW GDL XIRGRXZO
RNKOVNVMGZGRLM KILYOVNH, DSRXS SV UIZNVW RM GSV ULIN LU GDL JFVHGRLMH:
1) DSZG KOZGULIN DROO LMV FHV ZMW DSZG SZIWDZIV ZMW HLUGDZIV DROO FHVIH
SZEV ULI ERVDRMT LU GSV NZGVIRZO?  ZMW 2) SLD XZM LMV WVOREVI Z
HFUURXRVMGOB ILYFHG HVG LU RMULINZGRLM RM ZM ZXXVHHRYOV ULINZG RM Z
IVZHLMZYOV ZNLFMG LU GRNV?  WVKVMWRMT LM DSVGSVI MVGDLIP LI XW-ILN RH GSV
NVWRFN FHVW, GSRH JFVHGRLM IZRHVH WRUUVIVMG RHHFVH LU HGLIZTV,
XLNKIVHHRLM, ZMW GIZMHNRHHRLM.

XLMXVIMRMT GSV WVHRTM LU KOZGULINH (V.T., HLFMW, TIZB HXZOV, HRNKOV
XLOLI, VGX.) ZMW GSV EZIRLFH XZKZYRORGRVH FHVIH NZB SZEV, YVHHVI
NZRMGZRMVW GSZG Z OZBVIVW ZKKILZXS DZH GSV DZB GL WVZO DRGS FHVIH'
XZKZYRORGRVH.  Z IVHFOG DLFOW YV GSZG FHVIH DRGS OVHH KLDVIUFO
DLIPHGZGRLMH DLFOW HRNKOB SZEV OVHH UFMXGRLMZORGB.  SV FITVW NVNYVIH LU
GSV ZFWRVMXV GL ZWELXZGV HGZMWZIWH ZMW ZXXLNKZMBRMT HLUGDZIV GSZG SZMWOV
OZBVIVW UFMXGRLMZORGB ZXILHH Z DRWV EZIRVGB LU KOZGULINH.

YVHHVI ZOHL ZWWIVHHVW KILYOVNH RM KOZGULIN WVHRTM, MZNVOB, WVXRWRMT SLD
OZITV Z NZXSRMV GL WVHRTM ULI HRGFZGRLMH DSVM GSV OZITVHG MFNYVI LU FHVIH
SZEV GSV OLDVHG OVEVO LU GSV NZXSRMV, ZMW LMV WVHRIVH SRTSVI
UFMXGRLMZORGB.  YVHHVI GSVM KILXVVWVW GL GSV JFVHGRLM LU UROV HRAV ZMW
RGH RNKORXZGRLMH ULI MVGDLIPRMT.  SV WRHXFHHVW HGROO RNZTVH RM GSV NZRM.
ULI VCZNKOV, Z WRTRGZO XLOLI RNZTV GSZG UROOH GSV HXIVVM LU Z HGZMWZIW
NVTZ-KVO DLIPHGZGRLM (HFM LI MVCG) DROO IVJFRIV LMV NVTZYBGV LU HGLIZTV
ULI ZM VRTSG-YRG RNZTV LI GSIVV NVTZYBGVH LU HGLIZTV ULI Z GIFV XLOLI LI
GDVMGB-ULFI-YRG RNZTV.  OLHHOVHH XLNKIVHHRLM ZOTLIRGSNH (GSZG RH,
XLNKFGZGRLMZO KILXVWFIVH RM DSRXS ML WZGZ RH OLHG RM GSV KILXVHH LU
XLNKIVHHRMT [ZMW WVXLNKIVHHRMT] ZM RNZTV--GSV VCZXG YRG-IVKIVHVMGZGRLM RH
NZRMGZRMVW) NRTSG YIRMT HGLIZTV WLDM GL Z GSRIW LU Z NVTZYBGV KVI RNZTV,
YFG MLG NFXS UFIGSVI GSZM GSZG.  GSV JFVHGRLM LU HRAV NZPVH RG WRUURXFOG
GL URG ZM ZKKILKIRZGVOB HRAVW HVG LU GSVHV RNZTVH LM Z HRMTOV WRHP LI GL
GIZMHNRG GSVN JFRXPOB VMLFTS LM Z MVGDLIP.

DRGS GSVHV UFOO HXIVVM NVTZ-KVO RNZTVH GSZG XLMHGRGFGV Z GSRIW LU Z
NVTZYBGV, LMV TVGH 1,000-3,000 UFOO-HXIVVM RNZTVH LM Z LMV-TRTZYBGV WRHP;
Z HGZMWZIW XW-ILN IVKIVHVMGH ZKKILCRNZGVOB 60 KVIXVMG LU GSZG.  HGLIRMT
RNZTVH GSV HRAV LU Z KX HXIVVM (QFHG 8 YRG XLOLI) RMXIVZHVH HGLIZTV
XZKZXRGB GL 4,000-12,000 RNZTVH KVI TRTZYBGV; 60 KVIXVMG LU GSZG TREVH
LMV GSV HRAV LU Z XW-ILN, DSRXS RM GFIM XIVZGVH Z NZQLI KILYOVN.  LMV
XZMMLG SZEV UFOO-HXIVVM, UFOO-XLOLI RNZTVH DRGS OLHHOVHH XLNKIVHHRLM; LMV
NFHG XLNKIVHH GSVN LI FHV Z OLDVI IVHLOFGRLM.  ULI NVTZYBGV-HRAV RNZTVH,
ZMBGSRMT HOLDVI GSZM Z G-1 HKVVW RH RNKIZXGRXZO.  ULI VCZNKOV, LM Z
URUGB-HRC-PROLYZFW ORMV, RG GZPVH GSIVV NRMFGVH GL GIZMHUVI Z
LMV-NVTZYBGV UROV, RU RG RH MLG XLNKIVHHVW; ZMW GSRH HKVVW ZHHFNVH RWVZO
XRIXFNHGZMXVH (ML LGSVI FHVI XLMGVMWRMT ULI MVGDLIP YZMWDRWGS).  GSFH,
JFVHGRLMH LU WRHP ZXXVHH, IVNLGV WRHKOZB, ZMW XFIIVMG GVOVKSLMV
XLMMVXGRLM HKVVW NZPV GIZMHNRHHRLM LU NVTZYBGV-HRAV RNZTVH RNKIZXGRXZO.

YVHHVI GSVM WRHXFHHVW DZBH GL WVZO DRGS GSVHV OZITV RNZTVH, ULI VCZNKOV,
XLNKIVHHRLM ZMW WVXLNKIVHHRLM ZG GSV FHVI'H VMW.  RM GSRH XLMMVXGRLM, GSV
RHHFVH LU SLD NFXS LMV RH DROORMT GL OLHV RM GSV XLNKIVHHRLM KILXVHH ZMW
DSZG RNZTV JFZORGB LMV MVVWH RM GSV URIHG KOZXV ZIV FMPMLDM.  YFG DSZG RH
PMLDM RH GSZG XLNKIVHHRLM VMGZROH HLNV OLHH LU WZGZ.  YVHHVI FITVW GSZG
NLIV HGFWRVH YV XLMWFXGVW LM RNZTV JFZORGB RM WRUUVIVMG HRGFZGRLMH, ULI
VCZNKOV, DSZG PRMW LU RNZTVH ZIV MVVWVW ULI DSZG PRMW LU WRHXRKORMVH, ZMW
DSZG PRMW LU RNZTV JFZORGB RH MVVWVW ULI Z YILDHRMT GLLO, ZM RMGVINVWRZGV
ERVDRMT GLLO, ZMW ZIXSRERMT.

YVHHVI IVNZIPVW GDL KILNRHRMT GIVMWH ULI XLNKIVHHRLM:  UILN Z GVXSMRXZO
KVIHKVXGREV, ZOTLIRGSNH GSZG FHV DSZG RH XZOOVW HFYQVXGREV IVWFMWZMXB
VNKOLB KIRMXRKOVH UILN ERHFZO KHBXSL-KSBHRXH GL RWVMGRUB ZMW IVNLEV
RMULINZGRLM UILN GSV RNZTV GSZG GSV SFNZM VBV XZMMLG KVIXVREV; UILN ZM
RMGVIXSZMTV ZMW RMGVILKVIZYRORGB KVIHKVXGREV, GSV QKVT (R.V., QLRMG
KSLGLTIZKSRX VCKVIGH TILFK, ZM RHL HGZMWZIW) XLNKIVHHRLM ZOTLIRGSNH ZOHL
LUUVI KILNRHV.  GSVHV RHHFVH LU XLNKIVHHRLM ZMW WVXLNKIVHHRLM, YVHHVI
ZITFVW, IVHVNYOVW GSLHV IZRHVW VZIORVI XLMXVIMRMT GSV WVHRTM LU WRUUVIVMG
KOZGULINH.  TZFTRMT GSV XZKZYRORGRVH LU KLGVMGRZO FHVIH XLMHGRGFGVH Z
KIRNZIB TLZO.  YVHHVI ZWELXZGVW OZBVIRMT LI HVKZIZGRMT GSV RNZTVH UILN
GSV ZKKORXZGRLMH GSZG IVGIRVEV ZMW WRHKOZB GSVN, GL ZELRW GBRMT GSVN GL
KZIGRXFOZI HLUGDZIV.

YVHHVI WVGZROVW HVEVIZO OVHHLMH OVZIMVW UILN SRH DLIP ZG YVIPVOVB DRGS
RNZTVJFVIB, VHKVXRZOOB GSV ZWEZMGZTVH ZMW WRHZWEZMGZTVH LU FHRMT
C-DRMWLDH.  RM GSV OZGGVI XZGVTLIB, ULI VCZNKOV, IVGIRVEZO RH GRVW
WRIVXGOB GL LMV'H WZGZ, ZM RMGLOVIZYOV HRGFZGRLM RM GSV OLMT IFM LM Z
MVGDLIPVW HBHGVN.  URMZOOB, YVHHVI WVHXIRYVW Z KILQVXG LU QRN DZOOZXV ZG
GSV HNRGSHLMRZM RMHGRGFGRLM, DSL RH NLFMGRMT RNZTVH RM Z VCGIVNVOB
IFWRNVMGZIB DZB LM GSV XLNKFHVIE ZMW TVMRV MVGDLIPH ZMW RH KIVKZIRMT GL
NLFMG GSVN LM ZNVIRXZ LM ORMV.  ZOGSLFTS GSV ZEVIZTV FHVI GZPVH LEVI
GSRIGB NRMFGVH GL WLDMOLZW GSVHV RNZTVH (ZHHFNRMT Z UZRIOB UZHG NLWVN),
MVEVIGSVOVHH, RNZTVH SZEV YVVM WLDMOLZWVW 25,000 GRNVH.

YVHHVI XLMXOFWVW SRH GZOP DRGS HVEVIZO XLNNVMGH LM GSV YFHRMVHH
ZIIZMTVNVMG YVGDVVM GSV HNRGSHLMRZM ZMW XLNKFHVIE.  SV XLMGVMWVW GSZG MLG
VMLFTS RH PMLDM XLMXVIMRMT GSV EZOFV LU RNZTVH.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
WRHXFHHRLM * XIVZGRMT WRTRGRAVW KSLGLTIZKSRX XLOOVXGRLMH MVZIOB
RNKLHHRYOV VCXVKG DRGS OZITV LITZMRAZGRLMH ORPV NFHVFNH * MVVW ULI HGFWB
GL WVGVINRMV JFZORGB LU RNZTVH FHVIH DROO GLOVIZGV *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

WFIRMT GSV YIRVU VCXSZMTV YVGDVVM OVHP ZMW YVHHVI GSZG ULOOLDVW, HVEVIZO
XOZIRURXZGRLMH VNVITVW.

OVHP ZITFVW GSZG GSV KSLGLTIZKSVIH DVIV UZI ZSVZW LU YVHHVI:  RG RH
ZONLHG RNKLHHRYOV GL XIVZGV HFXS WRTRGRAVW KSLGLTIZKSRX XLOOVXGRLMH
VCXVKG DRGS OZITV LITZMRAZGRLMH ORPV NFHVFNH, YVXZFHV ZOO GSV
KSLGLTIZKSRX ZTVMXRVH SZEV YVVM TLRMT XIZAB ZYLFG GSRH ZMW DROO MLG HRTM
ORXVMHRMT ZTIVVNVMGH LM ZMB HLIG LU IVZHLMZYOV GVINH.  OVHP SZW SVZIW
GSZG MZGRLMZO TVLTIZKSRX, ULI VCZNKOV, SZW GIRVW GL YFB GSV IRTSG GL FHV
HLNV RNZTV RM HLNV PRMW LU VWFXZGRLMZO KILWFXGRLM ULI $100 KVI RNZTV, YFG
GSV KSLGLTIZKSVIH DROO MLG GLFXS RG.  GSVB DZMG ZXXLFMGRMT ZMW KZBNVMG
ULI VZXS FHV, DSRXS XZMMLG YV ZXXLNKORHSVW DRGSRM GSV HBHGVN.  YVHHVI
IVHKLMWVW GSZG Z XLMHLIGRFN LU KSLGLTIZKSVIH, SVZWVW YB Z ULINVI MZGRLMZO
TVLTIZKSRX KSLGLTIZKSVI, SZW HGZIGVW ZHHVNYORMT RGH LDM XLOOVXGRLM LU
