transition period, greater flexibility concerning how concepts such as
backup copies and archival copies in the CXP are defined is necessary,
or the opportunity to move forward will be lost.

In terms of cooperation, particularly in the university setting, BATTIN
also argued the need to avoid going off in a hundred different
directions.  The CPA has catalyzed a small group of universities called
the La Guardia Eight--because La Guardia Airport is where meetings take
place--Harvard, Yale, Cornell, Princeton, Penn State, Tennessee,
Stanford, and USC, to develop a digital preservation consortium to look
at all these issues and develop de facto standards as we move along,
instead of waiting for something that is officially blessed.  Continuing
to apply analog values and definitions of standards to the digital
environment, BATTIN said, will effectively lead to forfeiture of the
benefits of digital technology to research and scholarship.

Under the second rubric, the politics of reproduction, BATTIN reiterated
an oft-made argument concerning the electronic library, namely, that it
is more difficult to transform than to create, and nowhere is that belief
expressed more dramatically than in the conversion of brittle books to
new media.  Preserving information published in electronic media involves
making sure the information remains accessible and that digital
information is not lost through reproduction.  In the analog world of
photocopies and microfilm, the issue of fidelity to the original becomes
paramount, as do issues of "Whose fidelity?" and "Whose original?"

BATTIN elaborated thesV ZITFNVMGH DRGS Z UVD VCZNKOVH UILN Z IVXVMG HGFWB
XLMWFXGVW YB GSV XKZ LM GSV KILYOVNH LU KIVHVIERMT GVCG ZMW RNZTV.
WRHXFHHRLMH DRGS HXSLOZIH, ORYIZIRZMH, ZMW XFIZGLIH RM Z EZIRVGB LU
WRHXRKORMVH WVKVMWVMG LM GVCG ZMW RNZTV TVMVIZGVW Z EZIRVGB LU XLMXVIMH,
ULI VCZNKOV:  1) XLKB DSZG RH, MLG DSZG GSV GVXSMLOLTB RH XZKZYOV LU.
GSRH RH EVIB RNKLIGZMG ULI GSV SRHGLIB LU RWVZH.  HXSLOZIH DRHS GL PMLD
