                Elli Mylonas, Managing Editor

            2.  Other humanities projects employing the emerging norms of
                the Text Encoding Initiative (TEI):  Chadwyck-Healey's
                The English Poetry Full Text Database and/or Patrologia
                Latina Database
                Eric M. Calaluca, Vice President, Chadwyck-Healey, Inc.

            3.  American Memory
                Carl Fleischhauer, Coordinator, and
                Ricky Erway, Associate Coordinator, Library of Congress

            4.  Founding Fathers example from Packard Humanities
                Institute:  The Papers of George Washington, University
                of Virginia
                Dorothy Twohig, Managing Editor, and/or
                David Woodley Packard

            5.  An electronic medical journal offering graphics and
                full-text searchability:  The Online Journal of Current
                Clinical Trials, American Association for the Advancement
                of Science
                Maria L. Lebron, Managing Editor

            6.  A project that offers facsimile images of pages but omits
                searchable text:  Cornell math books
                Lynne K. Personius, Assistant Director, Cornell
                   Information Technologies for Scholarly Information
                   Sources, Cornell University

12:30 PM  Lunch  (Dining Room A, Library Madison 620.  Exhibits
          available.)

1:30 PM   Session II.  Show and Tell (Cont'd.).

3:00-
3:30 PM   Break

3:30-
5:30 PM   Session III.  Distribution, Networks, and Networking:  Options
          for Dissemination.

          Published disks:  University presses and public-sector
             publishers, private-sector publishers
          Computer networks

          Moderator:  Robert G. Zich, Special Assistant to the Associate
             Librarian for Special Projects, Library of Congress
          Clifford A. Lynch, Director, Library Automation, University of
             California
          Howard Besser, School of Library and Information Science,
             University of Pittsburgh
          Ronald L. Larsen, Associate Director of Libraries for
             Information Technology, University of Maryland at College
             Park
          Edwin B. Brownrigg, Executive Director, Memex Research
             Institute

6:30 PM   Reception  (Montpelier Room, Library Madison 619.)

                                 ******

Wednesday, 10 June 1992

DINING ROOM A, LIBRARY MADISON 620

8:30 AM   Coffee and Danish

9:00 AM   Session IV.  Image Capture, Text Capture, Overview of Text and
          Image Storage Formats.

          Moderator:  William L. Hooton, Vice President of Operations,
             I-NET

          A) Principal Methods for Image Capture of Text:
             Direct scanning
             Use of microform

          Anne R. Kenney, Assistant Director, Department of Preservation
             and Conservation, Cornell University
          Pamela Q.J. Andre, Associate Director, Automation, and
          Judith A. Zidar, Coordinator, National Agricultural Text
             Digitizing Program (NATDP), National Agricultural Library
             (NAL)
          Donald J. Waters, Head, Systems Office, Yale University Library

          B) Special Problems:
             Bound volumes
             Conservation
             Reproducing printed halftones

          Carl Fleischhauer, Coordinator, American Memory, Library of
             Congress
          George Thoma, Chief, Communications Engineering Branch,
             National Library of Medicine (NLM)

10:30-
11:00 AM  Break

11:00 AM  Session IV.  Image Capture, Text Capture, Overview of Text and
          Image Storage Formats (Cont'd.).

          C) Image Standards and Implications for Preservation

          Jean Baronas, Senior Manager, Department of Standards and
             Technology, Association for Information and Image Management
             (AIIM)
          Patricia Battin, President, The Commission on Preservation and
             Access (CPA)

          D) Text Conversion:
             OCR vs. rekeying
             Standards of accuracy and use of imperfect texts
             Service bureaus

          Stuart Weibel, Senior Research Specialist, Online Computer
             Library Center, Inc. (OCLC)
          Michael Lesk, Executive Director, Computer Science Research,
             Bellcore
          Ricky Erway, Associate Coordinator, American Memory, Library of
             Congress
          Pamela Q.J. Andre, Associate Director, Automation, and
          Judith A. Zidar, Coordinator, National Agricultural Text
             Digitizing Program (NATDP), National Agricultural Library
             (NAL)

12:30-
1:30 PM   Lunch

1:30 PM   Session V.  Approaches to Preparing Electronic Texts.

          Discussion of approaches to structuring text for the computer;
          pros and cons of text coding, description of methods in
          practice, and comparison of text-coding methods.

          Moderator:  Susan Hockey, Director, Center for Electronic Texts
             in the Humanities (CETH), Rutgers and Princeton Universities
          David Woodley Packard
          C.M. Sperberg-McQueen, Editor, Text Encoding Initiative (TEI),
             University of Illinois-Chicago
          Eric M. Calaluca, Vice President, Chadwyck-Healey, Inc.

3:30-
4:00 PM   Break

4:00 PM   Session VI.  Copyright Issues.

          Marybeth Peters, Policy Planning Adviser to the Register of
             Copyrights, Library of Congress

5:00 PM   Session VII. Conclusion.

          General discussion.
          What topics were omitted or given short shrift that anyone
             would like to talk about now?
          Is there a "group" here?  What should the group do next, if
             anything?  What should the Library of Congress do next, if
             anything?
          Moderator:  Prosser Gifford, Director for Scholarly Programs,
             Library of Congress

6:00 PM   Adjourn


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                         Appendix II:  ABSTRACTS


SESSION I

Avra MICHELSON           Forecasting the Use of Electronic Texts by
                         Social Sciences and Humanities Scholars

This presentation explores the ways in which electronic texts are likely
to be used by the non-scientific scholarly community.  Many of the
remarks are drawn from a report the speaker coauthored with Jeff
Rothenberg, a computer scientist at The RAND Corporation.

The speaker assesses 1) current scholarly use of information technology
and 2) the key trends in information technology most relevant to the
research process, in order to predict how social sciences and humanities
scholars are apt to use electronic texts.  In introducing the topic,
current use of electronic texts is explored broadly within the context of
scholarly communication.  From the perspective of scholarly
communication, the work of humanities and social sciences scholars
involves five processes:  1) identification of sources, 2) communication
with colleagues, 3) interpretation and analysis of data, 4) dissemination
of research findings, and 5) curriculum development and instruction.  The
extent to which computation currently permeates aspects of scholarly
communication represents a viable indicator of the prospects for
electronic texts.

The discussion of current practice is balanced by an analysis of key
trends in the scholarly use of information technology.  These include the
trends toward end-user computing and connectivity, which provide a
framework for forecasting the use of electronic texts through this
millennium.  The presentation concludes with a summary of the ways in
which the nonscientific scholarly community can be expected to use
electronic texts, and the implications of that use for information
providers.

Susan VECCIA and Joanne FREEMAN    Electronic Archives for the Public:
                                   Use of American Memory in Public and
                                   School Libraries

This joint discussion focuses on nonscholarly applications of electronic
library materials, specifically addressing use of the LRYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH
ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB (ZN) KILTIZN RM Z HNZOO MFNYVI LU KFYORX ZMW HXSLLO
ORYIZIRVH GSILFTSLFG GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH.  ZN XLMHRHGH LU HVOVXGVW ORYIZIB
LU XLMTIVHH KIRNZIB ZIXSREZO NZGVIRZOH, HGLIVW LM LKGRXZO NVWRZ
(XW-ILN/ERWVLWRHX), ZMW KIVHVMGVW DRGS ORGGOV LI ML VWRGRMT.  NZMB
XLOOVXGRLMH ZIV ZXXLNKZMRVW YB VOVXGILMRX RMGILWFXGRLMH ZMW FHVI'H TFRWVH
LUUVIRMT YZXPTILFMW RMULINZGRLM ZMW SRHGLIRXZO XLMGVCG.  XLOOVXGRLMH
IVKIVHVMG Z EZIRVGB LU ULINZGH RMXOFWRMT KSLGLTIZKSH, TIZKSRX ZIGH,
NLGRLM KRXGFIVH, IVXLIWVW HLFMW, NFHRX, YILZWHRWVH ZMW NZMFHXIRKGH,
YLLPH, ZMW KZNKSOVGH.

RM 1991, GSV ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH YVTZM Z MZGRLMDRWV VEZOFZGRLM LU ZN RM
WRUUVIVMG GBKVH LU RMHGRGFGRLMH.  GVHG HRGVH RMXOFWV KFYORX ORYIZIRVH,
VOVNVMGZIB ZMW HVXLMWZIB HXSLLO ORYIZIRVH, XLOOVTV ZMW FMREVIHRGB
ORYIZIRVH, HGZGV ORYIZIRVH, ZMW HKVXRZO ORYIZIRVH.  HFHZM EVXXRZ ZMW
QLZMMV UIVVNZM DROO WRHXFHH GSVRI LYHVIEZGRLMH LM GSV FHV LU ZN YB GSV
MLMHXSLOZIOB XLNNFMRGB, FHRMT VERWVMXV TOVZMVW UILN GSRH LMTLRMT
VEZOFZGRLM VUULIG.

EVXXRZ DROO XLNNVMG LM GSV LEVIZOO TLZOH LU GSV VEZOFZGRLM KILQVXG, ZMW
GSV GBKVH LU KFYORX ZMW HXSLLO ORYIZIRVH RMXOFWVW RM GSRH HGFWB.  SVI
XLNNVMGH LM MLMHXSLOZIOB FHV LU ZN DROO ULXFH LM GSV KFYORX ORYIZIB ZH Z
XFOGFIZO ZMW XLNNFMRGB RMHGRGFGRLM, LUGVM YIRWTRMT GSV TZK YVGDVVM ULINZO
ZMW RMULINZO VWFXZGRLM.  UIVVNZM DROO WRHXFHH GSV FHV LU ZN RM HXSLLO
ORYIZIRVH.  FHV YB HGFWVMGH ZMW GVZXSVIH SZH IVEVZOVW HLNV YILZW
JFVHGRLMH ZYLFG GSV FHV LU VOVXGILMRX IVHLFIXVH, ZH DVOO ZH WVURMRGV
YVMVURGH TZRMVW YB GSV "MLMHXSLOZI."  GLKRXH DROO RMXOFWV GSV KILYOVN LU
TIZHKRMT XLMGVMG ZMW XLMGVCG RM ZM VOVXGILMRX VMERILMNVMG, GSV HGFNYORMT
YOLXPH XIVZGVW YB "MVD" GVXSMLOLTRVH, ZMW GSV FMRJFV HPROOH ZMW RMGVIVHGH
ZDZPVMVW GSILFTS FHV LU VOVXGILMRX IVHLFIXVH.

HVHHRLM RR

VOOR NBOLMZH             GSV KVIHVFH KILQVXG:  RMGVIZXGREV HLFIXVH ZMW
                         HGFWRVH RM XOZHHRXZO TIVVXV

GSV KVIHVFH KILQVXG (5) SZH QFHG IVOVZHVW KVIHVFH 1.0, GSV URIHG KFYORXOB
ZEZROZYOV EVIHRLM LU RGH SBKVIGVCGFZO WZGZYZHV LU NFOGRNVWRZ NZGVIRZOH LM
