workstation the opportunity to erase all the defects and enhance the
presentation.  2) The fidelity of reproduction--what is good enough, what
can we afford, and the difference it makes--issues of subjective versus
objective resolution.  3) The differences between primary and secondary
users.  Restricting the definition of primary user to the one in whose
discipline the material has been published runs one headlong into the
reality that these printed books have had a host of other users from a
host of other disciplines, who not only were looking for very different
things, but who also shared values very different from those of the
primary user.  4) The relationship of the standard of reproduction to new
capabilities of scholarship--the browsing standard versus an archival
standard.  How good must the archival standard be?  Can a distinction be
drawn between potential users in setting standards for reproduction?
Archival storage, use copies, browsing copies--ought an attempt to set
standards even be made?  5) Finally, costs.  How much are we prepared to
pay to capture absolute fidelity?  What are the trade-offs between vastly
enhanced access, degrees of fidelity, and costs?

These standards, BATTIN concluded, serve to complicate further the
reproduction process, and add to the long list of technical standards
that are necessary to ensure widespread access.  Ways to articulate ZMW
ZMZOBAV GSV XLHGH GSZG ZIV ZGGZXSVW GL GSV WRUUVIVMG OVEVOH LU HGZMWZIWH
NFHG YV ULFMW.

TREVM GSV XSZLH XLMXVIMRMT HGZMWZIWH, DSRXS KILNRHVH GL ORMTVI ULI GSV
ULIVHVVZYOV UFGFIV, YZGGRM FITVW ZWLKGRLM LU GSV ULOOLDRMT TVMVIZO
KIRMXRKOVH:

     * HGIREV GL FMWVIHGZMW GSV XSZMTRMT RMULINZGRLM IVJFRIVNVMGH LU
     HXSLOZIOB WRHXRKORMVH ZH NLIV ZMW NLIV GVXSMLOLTB RH RMGVTIZGVW RMGL
     GSV KILXVHH LU IVHVZIXS ZMW HXSLOZIOB XLNNFMRXZGRLM RM LIWVI GL NVVG
     UFGFIV HXSLOZIOB MVVWH, MLG GL YFROW ULI GSV KZHG.  XZKGFIV
     WVGVIRLIZGRMT RMULINZGRLM ZG GSV SRTSVHG ZUULIWZYOV IVHLOFGRLM, VEVM
