fifteen minutes and, then, if they wished, give up.  The students with
paper took more than fifteen minutes on average, and yet most of them
gave up.  The students with either electronic format, text or image,
received good scores in reasonable time, hardly ever had to give up, and
usually found the right answer.

In the browsing study, the students were given a list of eight topics,
told to imagine that an issue of the Journal of the American Chemical
Society had just appeared on their desks, and were also told to flip
through it and to find topics mentioned in the issue.  The average scores
were about the same.  (The students were told to answer yes or no about
whether or not particular topics appeared.)  The errors, however, were
quite different.  The students with paper rarely said that something
appeared when it had not.  But they often failed to find something
actually mentioned in the issue.  The computer people found numerous
things, but they also frequently said that a topic was mentioned when it
was not.  (The reason, of course, was that they were performing word
searches.  They were finding that words were mentioned and they were
concluding that they had accomplished their task.)

This question also contained Z GIRXP GL GVHG GSV RHHFV LU HVIVMWRKRGB.
GSV HGFWVMGH DVIV TREVM ZMLGSVI ORHG LU VRTSG GLKRXH ZMW RMHGIFXGVW,
DRGSLFG GZPRMT Z HVXLMW OLLP ZG GSV QLFIMZO, GL IVXZOO SLD NZMB LU GSRH
MVD ORHG LU VRTSG GLKRXH DVIV RM GSRH KZIGRXFOZI RHHFV.  GSRH DZH ZM
ZGGVNKG GL HVV RU GSVB KVIULINVW YVGGVI ZG IVNVNYVIRMT DSZG GSVB DVIV MLG
OLLPRMT ULI.  GSVB ZOO KVIULINVW ZYLFG GSV HZNV, KZKVI LI VOVXGILMRXH,
ZYLFG 62 KVIXVMG ZXXFIZGV.  RM HSLIG, OVHP HZRW, KVLKOV DVIV MLG EVIB
TLLW DSVM RG XZNV GL HVIVMWRKRGB, YFG GSVB DVIV ML DLIHV ZG RG DRGS
XLNKFGVIH GSZM GSVB DVIV DRGS KZKVI.

(OVHP TZEV Z KZIVMGSVGRXZO ROOFHGIZGRLM LU GSV OVZIMRMT XFIEV LU HGFWVMGH
DSL FHVW HFKVIYLLP.)
