Everything is focused on the text; to see the pictures, one must press
on an icon.  Many students found the right article containing the answer
to the question, but they did not click on the icon to bring up the right
figure and see it.  They did not know that they had found the right place,
and thus got it wrong.

The short answer demonstrated by this experiment was that in the event
one does not know what to read, one needs the electronic systems; the
electronic systems hold no advantage at the moment if one knows what to
read, but neither do they impose a penalty.

LESK concluded by commenting that, on one hand, the image system was easy
to use.  On the other hand, the text display system, which represented
twentB NZM-BVZIH LU DLIP RM KILTIZNNRMT ZMW KLORHSRMT, DZH MLG DRMMRMT,
YVXZFHV GSV GVCG DZH MLG YVRMT IVZW, QFHG HVZIXSVW.  GSV NFXS VZHRVI
HBHGVN RH SRTSOB XLNKVGRGREV ZH DVOO ZH IVNZIPZYOB VUUVXGREV ULI GSV
ZXGFZO XSVNRHGH.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
VIDZB * NLHG XSZOOVMTRMT ZHKVXG LU DLIPRMT LM ZN * ZHHFNKGRLMH TFRWRMT
ZN'H ZKKILZXS * GVHGRMT WRUUVIVMG GBKVH LU HVIERXV YFIVZFH * ZN'H
IVJFRIVNVMG ULI 99.95 KVIXVMG ZXXFIZXB * IVJFRIVNVMGH ULI GVCG-XLWRMT *
ZWWRGRLMZO UZXGLIH RMUOFVMXRMT ZN'H ZKKILZXS GL XLWRMT * IVHFOGH LU ZN'H
VCKVIRVMXV DRGS IVPVBRMT * LGSVI KILYOVNH RM WVZORMT DRGS HVIERXV YFIVZFH
* JFZORGB XLMGILO GSV NLHG GRNV-XLMHFNRMT ZHKVXG LU XLMGIZXGRMT LFG
XLMEVIHRLM * OLMT-GVIN LFGOLLP FMXVIGZRM *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

GL IRXPB VIDZB, ZHHLXRZGV XLLIWRMZGLI, ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB, ORYIZIB LU
XLMTIVHH, GSV XLMHGZMG EZIRVGB LU XLMEVIHRLM KILQVXGH GZPRMT KOZXV
HRNFOGZMVLFHOB IVKIVHVMGVW KVISZKH GSV NLHG XSZOOVMTRMT ZHKVXG LU DLIPRMT
