  There was nothing so VERY remarkable in that; nor did Alice
think it so VERY much out of the way to hear the Rabbit say to
itself, `Oh dear!  Oh dear!  I shall be late!'  (when she thought
it over afterwards, it occurred to her that she ought to have
wondered at this, but at the time it all seemed quite natural);
but when the Rabbit actually TOOK A WATCH OUT OF ITS WAISTCOAT-
POCKET, and looked at it, and then hurried on, Alice started to
her feet, for it flashed across her mind that she had never
before seen a rabbit with either a waistcoat-pocket, or a watch to
take out of it, and burning with curiosity, she ran across the
field after it, and fortunately was just in time to see it pop
down a large rabbit-hole under the hedge.

  In another moment down went Alice after it, never once
considering how in the world she was to get out again.

  The rabbit-hole went straight on like a tunnel for some way,
and then dipped suddenly down, so suddenly that Alice had not a
moment to think about stopping herself before she found herself
falling down a very deep well.

  Either the well was very deep, or she fell very slowly, for she
had plenty of time as she went down to look about her and to
wonder what was going to happen next.  First, she tried to look
down and make out what she was coming to, but it was too dark to
see anything; then she looked at the sides of the well, and
noticed that they were filled with cupboards and book-shelves;
here and there she saw maps and pictures hung upon pegs.  She
took down a jar from one of the shelves as she passed; it was
labelled `ORANGE MARMALADE', but to her great disappointment it
was empty:  she did not like to drop the jar for fear of killing
somebody, so managed to put it into one of the cupboards as she
fell past it.

  `Well!' thought Alice to herself, `after such a fall as this, I
shall think nothing of tumbling down stairs!  How brave they'll
all think me at home!  Why, I wouldn't say anything about it,
even if I fell off the top of the house!' (Which was very likely
true.)

  Down, down, down.  Would the fall NEVER come to an end!  `I
wonder how many miles I've fallen by this time?' she said aloud.
`I must be getting somewhere near the centre of the earth.  Let
me see:  that would be four thousand miles down, I think--' (for,
you see, Alice had learnt several things of this sort in her
lessons in the schoolroom, and though this was not a VERY good
opportunity for showing off her knowledge, as there was no one to
listen to her, still it was good practice to say it over) `--yes,
that's about the right distance--but then I wonder what Latitude
or Longitude I've got to?'  (Alice had no idea what Latitude was,
or Longitude either, but thought they were nice grand words to
say.)

  Presently she began again.  `I wonder if I shall fall right
THROUGH the earth!  How funny it'll seem to come out among the
people that walk with their heads downward!  The Antipathies, I
think--' (she was rather glad there WAS no one listening, this
time, as it didn't sound at all the right word) `--but I shall
have to ask them what the name of the country is, you know.
Please, Ma'am, is this New Zealand or Australia?' (and she tried
to curtsey as she spoke--fancy CURTSEYING as you're falling
through the air!  Do you think you could manage it?)  `And what
an ignorant little girl she'll think me for asking!  No, it'll
never do to ask:  perhaps I shall see it written up somewhere.'

  Down, down, down.  There was nothing else to do, so Alice soon
began talking again.  `Dinah'll miss me very much to-night, I
should think!'  (Dinah was the cat.)  `I hope they'll remember
her saucer of milk at tea-time.  Dinah my dear!  I wish you were
down here with me!  There are no mice in the air, I'm afraid, but
you might catch a bat, and that's very like a mouse, you know.
But do cats eat bats, I wonder?'  And here Alice began to get
rather sleepy, and went on saying to herself, in a dreamy sort of
way, `Do cats eat bats?  Do cats eat bats?' and sometimes, `Do
bats eat cats?' for, you see, as she couldn't answer either
question, it didn't much matter which way she put it.  She felt
that she was dozing off, and had just begun to dream that she
was walking hand in hand with Dinah, and saying to her very
earnestly, `Now, Dinah, tell me the truth:  did you ever eat a
bat?' when suddenly, thump! thump! down she came upon a heap of
sticks and dry leaves, and the fall was over.

  Alice was not a bit hurt, and she jumped up on to her feet in a
moment:  she looked up, but it was all dark overhead; before her
was another long passage, and the White Rabbit was still in
sight, hurrying down it.  There was not a moment to be lost:
away went Alice like the wind, and was just in time to hear it
say, as it turned a corner, `Oh my ears and whiskers, how late
it's getting!'  She was close behind it when she turned the
corner, but the Rabbit was no longer to be seen:  she found
herself in a long, low hall, which was lit up by a row of lamps
hanging from the roof.

  There were doors all round the hall, but they were all locked;
and when Alice had been all the way down one side and up the
other, trying every door, she walked sadly down the middle,
wondering how she was ever to get out again.

  Suddenly she came upon a little three-legged table, all made of
solid glass; there was nothing on it except a tiny golden key,
and Alice's first thought was that it might belong to one of the
doors of the hall; but, alas! either the locks were too large, or
the key was too small, but at any rate it would not open any of
them.  However, on the second time round, she came upon a low
curtain she had not noticed before, and behind it was a little
door about fifteen inches high:  she tried the little golden key
in the lock, and to her great delight it fitted!

  Alice opened the door and found that it led into a small
passage, not much larger than a rat-hole:  she knelt down and
looked along the passage into the loveliest garden you ever saw.
How she longed to get out of that dark hall, and wander about
among those beds of bright flowers and those cool fountains, but
she could not even get her head though the doorway; `and even if
my head would go through,' thought poor Alice, `it would be of
very little use without my shoulders.  Oh, how I wish
I could shut up like a telescope!  I think I could, if I only
know how to begin.'  For, you see, so many out-of-the-way things
had happened lately, that Alice had begun to think that very few
things indeed were really impossible.

  There seemed to be no use in waiting by the little door, so she
went back to the table, half hoping she might find another key on
it, or at any rate a book of rules for shutting people up like
telescopes:  this time she found a little bottle on it, (`which
certainly was not here before,' said Alice,) and round the neck
of the bottle was a paper label, with the words `DRINK ME'
beautifully printed on it in large letters.

  It was all very well to say `Drink me,' but the wise little
Alice was not going to do THAT in a hurry.  `No, I'll look
first,' she said, `and see whether it's marked "poison" or not';
for she had read several nice little histories about children who
had got burnt, and eaten up by wild beasts and other unpleasant
things, all because they WOULD not remember the simple rules
their friends had taught them:  such as, that a red-hot poker
will burn you if you hold it too long; and that if you cut your
finger VERY deeply with a knife, it usually bleeds; and she had
never forgotten that, if you drink much from a bottle marked
`poison,' it is almost certain to disagree with you, sooner or
later.

  However, this bottle was NOT marked `poison,' so Alice ventured
to taste it, and finding it very nice, (it had, in fact, a sort
of mixed flavour of cherry-tart, custard, pine-apple, roast
turkey, toffee, and hot buttered toast,) she very soon finished
it off.

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

         *       *       *       *       *       *

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

  `What a curious feeling!' said Alice; `I must be shutting up
like a telescope.'

  And so it was indeed:  she was now only ten inches high, and
her face brightened up at the thought that she was now the right
size for going though the little door into that lovely garden.
First, however, she waited for a few minutes to see if she was
going to shrink any further:  she felt a little nervous about
this; `for it might end, you know,' said Alice to herself, `in my
going out altogether, like a candle.  I wonder what I should be
like then?'  And she tried to fancy what the flame of a candle is
like after the candle is blown out, for she could not remember
ever having seen such a thing.

  After a while, finding that nothing more happened, she decided
on going into the garden at once; but, alas for poor Alice! when
she got to the door, she found he had forgotten the little golden
key, and when she went back to the table for it, she found she
could not possibly reach it:  she could see it quite plainly
through the glass, and she tried her best to climb up one of the
legs of the table, but it was too slippery; and when she had
tired herself out with trying, the poor little thing sat down and
cried.

  `Come, there's no use in crying like that!' said Alice to
herself, rather sharply; `I advise you to leave off this minute!'
She generally gave herself very good advice, (though she very
seldom followed it), and sometimes she scolded herself so
severely as to bring tears into her eyes; and once she remembered
trying to box her own ears for having cheated herself in a game
of croquet she was playing against herself, for this curious
child was very fond of pretending to be two people.  `But it's no
use now,' thought poor Alice, `to pretend to be two people!  Why,
there's hardly enough of me left to make ONE respectable
person!'

  Soon her eye fell on a little glass box that was lying under
the table:  she opened it, and found in it a very small cake, on
which the words `EAT ME' were beautifully marked in currants.
`Well, I'll eat it,' said Alice, `and if it makes me grow larger,
I can reach the key; and if it makes me grow smaller, I can creep
under the door; so either way I'll get into the garden, and I
don't care which happens!'

  She ate a little bit, and said anxiously to herself, `Which
way?  Which way?', holding her hand on the top of her head to
feel which way it was growing, and she was quite surprised to
find that she remained the same size:  to be sure, this generally
happens when one eats cake, but Alice had got so much into the
way of expecting nothing but out-of-the-way things to happen,
that it seemed quite dull and stupid for life to go on in the
common way.

  So she set to work, and very soon finished off the cake.

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

         *       *       *       *       *       *

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *




                           CHAPTER II

                        The Pool of Tears


  `Curiouser and curiouser!' cried Alice (she was so much
surprised, that for the moment she quite forgot how to speak good
English); `now I'm opening out like the largest telescope that
ever was!  Good-bye, feet!' (for when she looked down at her
feet, they seemed to be almost out of sight, they were getting so
far off).  `Oh, my poor little feet, I wonder who will put on
your shoes and stockings for you now, dears?  I'm sure _I_ shan't
be able!  I shall be a great deal too far off to trouble myself
about you:  you must manage the best way you can; --but I must be
kind to them,' thought Alice, `or perhaps they won't walk the
way I want to go!  Let me see:  I'll give them a new pair of
boots every Christmas.'

  And she went on planning to herself how she would manage it.
`They must go by the carrier,' she thought; `and how funny it'll
seem, sending presents to one's own feet!  And how odd the
directions will look!

            ALICE'S RIGHT FOOT, ESQ.
                HEARTHRUG,
                    NEAR THE FENDER,
                        (WITH ALICE'S LOVE).

Oh dear, what nonsense I'm talking!'

  Just then her head struck against the roof of the hall:  in
fact she was now more than nine feet high, and she at once took
up the little golden key and hurried off to the garden door.

  Poor Alice!  It was as much as she could do, lying down on one
side, to look through into the garden with one eye; but to get
through was more hopeless than ever:  she sat down and began to
cry again.

  `You ought to be ashamed of yourself,' said Alice, `a great
girl like you,' (she might well say this), `to go on crying in
this way!  Stop this moment, I tell you!'  But she went on all
the same, shedding gallons of tears, until there was a large pool
all round her, about four inches deep and reaching half down the
hall.

  After a time she heard a little pattering of feet in the
distance, and she hastily dried her eyes to see what was coming.
It was the White Rabbit returning, splendidly dressed, with a
pair of white kid gloves in one hand and a large fan in the
other:  he came trotting along in a great hurry, muttering to
himself as he came, `Oh! the Duchess, the Duchess! Oh! won't she
be savage if I've kept her waiting!'  Alice felt so desperate
that she was ready to ask help of any one; so, when the Rabbit
came near her, she began, in a low, timid voice, `If you please,
sir--'  The Rabbit started violently, dropped the white kid
gloves and the fan, and skurried away into the darkness as hard
as he could go.

  Alice took up the fan and gloves, and, as the hall was very
hot, she kept fanning herself all the time she went on talking:
`Dear, dear!  How queer everything is to-day!  And yesterday
things went on just as usual.  I wonder if I've been changed in
the night?  Let me think:  was I the same when I got up this
morning?  I almost think I can remember feeling a little
different.  But if I'm not the same, the next question is, Who in
the world am I?  Ah, THAT'S the great puzzle!'  And she began
thinking over all the children she knew that were of the same age
as herself, to see if she could have been changed for any of
them.

  `I'm sure I'm not Ada,' she said, `for her hair goes in such
long ringlets, and mine doesn't go in ringlets at all; and I'm
sure I can't be Mabel, for I know all sorts of things, and she,
oh! she knows such a very little!  Besides, SHE'S she, and I'm I,
and--oh dear, how puzzling it all is!  I'll try if I know all the
things I used to know.  Let me see:  four times five is twelve,
and four times six is thirteen, and four times seven is--oh dear!
I shall never get to twenty at that rate!  However, the
Multiplication Table doesn't signify:  let's try Geography.
London is the capital of Paris, and Paris is the capital of Rome,
and Rome--no, THAT'S all wrong, I'm certain!  I must have been
changed for Mabel!  I'll try and say "How doth the little--"'
and she crossed her hands on her lap as if she were saying lessons,
and began to repeat it, but her voice sounded hoarse and
strange, and the words did not come the same as they used to do:--

            `How doth the little crocodile
              Improve his shining tail,
            And pour the waters of the Nile
              On every golden scale!

            `How cheerfully he seems to grin,
              How neatly spread his claws,
            And welcome little fishes in
              With gently smiling jaws!'

  `I'm sure those are not the right words,' said poor Alice, and
her eyes filled with tears again as she went on, `I must be Mabel
after all, and I shall have to go and live in that poky little
house, and have next to no toys to play with, and oh! ever so
many lessons to learn!  No, I've made up my mind about it; if I'm
Mabel, I'll stay down here!  It'll be no use their putting their
heads down and saying "Come up again, dear!"  I shall only look
up and say "Who am I then?  Tell me that first, and then, if I
like being that person, I'll come up:  if not, I'll stay down
here till I'm somebody else"--but, oh dear!' cried Alice, with a
sudden burst of tears, `I do wish they WOULD put their heads
down!  I am so VERY tired of being all alone here!'

  As she said this she looked down at her hands, and was
surprised to see that she had put on one of the Rabbit's little
white kid gloves while she was talking.  `How CAN I have done
that?' she thought.  `I must be growing small again.'  She got up
and went to the table to measure herself by it, and found that,
as nearly as she could guess, she was now about two feet high,
and was going on shrinking rapidly:  she soon found out that the
cause of this was the fan she was holding, and she dropped it
hastily, just in time to avoid shrinking away altogether.

`That WAS a narrow escape!' said Alice, a good deal frightened at
the sudden change, but very glad to find herself still in
existence; `and now for the garden!' and she ran with all speed
back to the little door:  but, alas! the little door was shut
again, and the little golden key was lying on the glass table as
before, `and things are worse than ever,' thought the poor child,
`for I never was so small as this before, never!  And I declare
it's too bad, that it is!'

  As she said these words her foot slipped, and in another
moment, splash! she was up to her chin in salt water.  He first
RWVZ DZH GSZG HSV SZW HLNVSLD UZOOVM RMGL GSV HVZ, `ZMW RM GSZG
XZHV R XZM TL YZXP YB IZRODZB,' HSV HZRW GL SVIHVOU.  (ZORXV SZW
YVVM GL GSV HVZHRWV LMXV RM SVI ORUV, ZMW SZW XLNV GL GSV TVMVIZO
XLMXOFHRLM, GSZG DSVIVEVI BLF TL GL LM GSV VMTORHS XLZHG BLF URMW
Z MFNYVI LU YZGSRMT NZXSRMVH RM GSV HVZ, HLNV XSROWIVM WRTTRMT RM
GSV HZMW DRGS DLLWVM HKZWVH, GSVM Z ILD LU OLWTRMT SLFHVH, ZMW
YVSRMW GSVN Z IZRODZB HGZGRLM.)  SLDVEVI, HSV HLLM NZWV LFG GSZG
HSV DZH RM GSV KLLO LU GVZIH DSRXS HSV SZW DVKG DSVM HSV DZH MRMV
UVVG SRTS.

  `R DRHS R SZWM'G XIRVW HL NFXS!' HZRW ZORXV, ZH HSV HDZN ZYLFG,
GIBRMT GL URMW SVI DZB LFG.  `R HSZOO YV KFMRHSVW ULI RG MLD, R
HFKKLHV, YB YVRMT WILDMVW RM NB LDM GVZIH!  GSZG DROO YV Z JFVVI
GSRMT, GL YV HFIV!  SLDVEVI, VEVIBGSRMT RH JFVVI GL-WZB.'

  QFHG GSVM HSV SVZIW HLNVGSRMT HKOZHSRMT ZYLFG RM GSV KLLO Z
ORGGOV DZB LUU, ZMW HSV HDZN MVZIVI GL NZPV LFG DSZG RG DZH:  ZG
URIHG HSV GSLFTSG RG NFHG YV Z DZOIFH LI SRKKLKLGZNFH, YFG GSVM
HSV IVNVNYVIVW SLD HNZOO HSV DZH MLD, ZMW HSV HLLM NZWV LFG GSZG
RG DZH LMOB Z NLFHV GSZG SZW HORKKVW RM ORPV SVIHVOU.

  `DLFOW RG YV LU ZMB FHV, MLD,' GSLFTSG ZORXV, `GL HKVZP GL GSRH
NLFHV?  VEVIBGSRMT RH HL LFG-LU-GSV-DZB WLDM SVIV, GSZG R HSLFOW
GSRMP EVIB ORPVOB RG XZM GZOP:  ZG ZMB IZGV, GSVIV'H ML SZIN RM
GIBRMT.'  HL HSV YVTZM:  `L NLFHV, WL BLF PMLD GSV DZB LFG LU
GSRH KLLO?  R ZN EVIB GRIVW LU HDRNNRMT ZYLFG SVIV, L NLFHV!'
(ZORXV GSLFTSG GSRH NFHG YV GSV IRTSG DZB LU HKVZPRMT GL Z NLFHV:
HSV SZW MVEVI WLMV HFXS Z GSRMT YVULIV, YFG HSV IVNVNYVIVW SZERMT
HVVM RM SVI YILGSVI'H OZGRM TIZNNZI, `Z NLFHV--LU Z NLFHV--GL Z
NLFHV--Z NLFHV--L NLFHV!'  GSV NLFHV OLLPVW ZG SVI IZGSVI
RMJFRHRGREVOB, ZMW HVVNVW GL SVI GL DRMP DRGS LMV LU RGH ORGGOV
VBVH, YFG RG HZRW MLGSRMT.

  `KVISZKH RG WLVHM'G FMWVIHGZMW VMTORHS,' GSLFTSG ZORXV; `R
WZIVHZB RG'H Z UIVMXS NLFHV, XLNV LEVI DRGS DROORZN GSV
XLMJFVILI.'  (ULI, DRGS ZOO SVI PMLDOVWTV LU SRHGLIB, ZORXV SZW
ML EVIB XOVZI MLGRLM SLD OLMT ZTL ZMBGSRMT SZW SZKKVMVW.)  HL HSV
YVTZM ZTZRM:  `LF VHG NZ XSZGGV?' DSRXS DZH GSV URIHG HVMGVMXV RM
SVI UIVMXS OVHHLM-YLLP.  GSV NLFHV TZEV Z HFWWVM OVZK LFG LU GSV
DZGVI, ZMW HVVNVW GL JFREVI ZOO LEVI DRGS UIRTSG.  `LS, R YVT
BLFI KZIWLM!' XIRVW ZORXV SZHGROB, ZUIZRW GSZG HSV SZW SFIG GSV
KLLI ZMRNZO'H UVVORMTH.  `R JFRGV ULITLG BLF WRWM'G ORPV XZGH.'

  `MLG ORPV XZGH!' XIRVW GSV NLFHV, RM Z HSIROO, KZHHRLMZGV
ELRXV.  `DLFOW BLF ORPV XZGH RU BLF DVIV NV?'

  `DVOO, KVISZKH MLG,' HZRW ZORXV RM Z HLLGSRMT GLMV:  `WLM'G YV
ZMTIB ZYLFG RG.  ZMW BVG R DRHS R XLFOW HSLD BLF LFI XZG WRMZS:
R GSRMP BLF'W GZPV Z UZMXB GL XZGH RU BLF XLFOW LMOB HVV SVI.
HSV RH HFXS Z WVZI JFRVG GSRMT,' ZORXV DVMG LM, SZOU GL SVIHVOU,
ZH HSV HDZN OZAROB ZYLFG RM GSV KLLO, `ZMW HSV HRGH KFIIRMT HL
MRXVOB YB GSV URIV, ORXPRMT SVI KZDH ZMW DZHSRMT SVI UZXV--ZMW
HSV RH HFXS Z MRXV HLUG GSRMT GL MFIHV--ZMW HSV'H HFXS Z XZKRGZO
LMV ULI XZGXSRMT NRXV--LS, R YVT BLFI KZIWLM!' XIRVW ZORXV ZTZRM,
ULI GSRH GRNV GSV NLFHV DZH YIRHGORMT ZOO LEVI, ZMW HSV UVOG
XVIGZRM RG NFHG YV IVZOOB LUUVMWVW.  `DV DLM'G GZOP ZYLFG SVI ZMB
NLIV RU BLF'W IZGSVI MLG.'

  `DV RMWVVW!' XIRVW GSV NLFHV, DSL DZH GIVNYORMT WLDM GL GSV VMW
LU SRH GZRO.  `ZH RU R DLFOW GZOP LM HFXS Z HFYQVXG!  LFI UZNROB
ZODZBH SZGVW XZGH:  MZHGB, OLD, EFOTZI GSRMTH!  WLM'G OVG NV SVZI
GSV MZNV ZTZRM!'

  `R DLM'G RMWVVW!' HZRW ZORXV, RM Z TIVZG SFIIB GL XSZMTV GSV
HFYQVXG LU XLMEVIHZGRLM.  `ZIV BLF--ZIV BLF ULMW--LU--LU WLTH?'
GSV NLFHV WRW MLG ZMHDVI, HL ZORXV DVMG LM VZTVIOB:  `GSVIV RH
HFXS Z MRXV ORGGOV WLT MVZI LFI SLFHV R HSLFOW ORPV GL HSLD BLF!
Z ORGGOV YIRTSG-VBVW GVIIRVI, BLF PMLD, DRGS LS, HFXS OLMT XFIOB
YILDM SZRI!  ZMW RG'OO UVGXS GSRMTH DSVM BLF GSILD GSVN, ZMW
RG'OO HRG FK ZMW YVT ULI RGH WRMMVI, ZMW ZOO HLIGH LU GSRMTH--R
XZM'G IVNVNYVI SZOU LU GSVN--ZMW RG YVOLMTH GL Z UZINVI, BLF
PMLD, ZMW SV HZBH RG'H HL FHVUFO, RG'H DLIGS Z SFMWIVW KLFMWH!
SV HZBH RG PROOH ZOO GSV IZGH ZMW--LS WVZI!' XIRVW ZORXV RM Z
HLIILDUFO GLMV, `R'N ZUIZRW R'EV LUUVMWVW RG ZTZRM!'  ULI GSV
NLFHV DZH HDRNNRMT ZDZB UILN SVI ZH SZIW ZH RG XLFOW TL, ZMW
NZPRMT JFRGV Z XLNNLGRLM RM GSV KLLO ZH RG DVMG.

  HL HSV XZOOVW HLUGOB ZUGVI RG, `NLFHV WVZI!  WL XLNV YZXP
ZTZRM, ZMW DV DLM'G GZOP ZYLFG XZGH LI WLTH VRGSVI, RU BLF WLM'G
ORPV GSVN!'  DSVM GSV NLFHV SVZIW GSRH, RG GFIMVW ILFMW ZMW HDZN
HOLDOB YZXP GL SVI:  RGH UZXV DZH JFRGV KZOV (DRGS KZHHRLM, ZORXV
GSLFTSG), ZMW RG HZRW RM Z OLD GIVNYORMT ELRXV, `OVG FH TVG GL
GSV HSLIV, ZMW GSVM R'OO GVOO BLF NB SRHGLIB, ZMW BLF'OO
FMWVIHGZMW DSB RG RH R SZGV XZGH ZMW WLTH.'

  RG DZH SRTS GRNV GL TL, ULI GSV KLLO DZH TVGGRMT JFRGV XILDWVW
DRGS GSV YRIWH ZMW ZMRNZOH GSZG SZW UZOOVM RMGL RG:  GSVIV DVIV Z
WFXP ZMW Z WLWL, Z OLIB ZMW ZM VZTOVG, ZMW HVEVIZO LGSVI XFIRLFH
XIVZGFIVH.  ZORXV OVW GSV DZB, ZMW GSV DSLOV KZIGB HDZN GL GSV
HSLIV.



                           XSZKGVI RRR

                  Z XZFXFH-IZXV ZMW Z OLMT GZOV


  GSVB DVIV RMWVVW Z JFVVI-OLLPRMT KZIGB GSZG ZHHVNYOVW LM GSV
YZMP--GSV YRIWH DRGS WIZTTOVW UVZGSVIH, GSV ZMRNZOH DRGS GSVRI
UFI XORMTRMT XOLHV GL GSVN, ZMW ZOO WIRKKRMT DVG, XILHH, ZMW
FMXLNULIGZYOV.

  GSV URIHG JFVHGRLM LU XLFIHV DZH, SLD GL TVG WIB ZTZRM:  GSVB
SZW Z XLMHFOGZGRLM ZYLFG GSRH, ZMW ZUGVI Z UVD NRMFGVH RG HVVNVW
JFRGV MZGFIZO GL ZORXV GL URMW SVIHVOU GZOPRMT UZNRORZIOB DRGS
GSVN, ZH RU HSV SZW PMLDM GSVN ZOO SVI ORUV.  RMWVVW, HSV SZW
JFRGV Z OLMT ZITFNVMG DRGS GSV OLIB, DSL ZG OZHG GFIMVW HFOPB,
ZMW DLFOW LMOB HZB, `R ZN LOWVI GSZM BLF, ZMW NFHG PMLD YVGGVI';
ZMW GSRH ZORXV DLFOW MLG ZOOLD DRGSLFG PMLDRMT SLD LOW RG DZH,
ZMW, ZH GSV OLIB KLHRGREVOB IVUFHVW GL GVOO RGH ZTV, GSVIV DZH ML
NLIV GL YV HZRW.

  ZG OZHG GSV NLFHV, DSL HVVNVW GL YV Z KVIHLM LU ZFGSLIRGB ZNLMT
GSVN, XZOOVW LFG, `HRG WLDM, ZOO LU BLF, ZMW ORHGVM GL NV!  R'OO
HLLM NZPV BLF WIB VMLFTS!'  GSVB ZOO HZG WLDM ZG LMXV, RM Z OZITV
