anxiously fixed on it, for she felt sure she would catch a bad
cold if she did not get dry very soon.

  `Ahem!' said the Mouse with an important air, `are you all ready?
This is the driest thing I know.  Silence all round, if you please!
"William the Conqueror, whose cause was favoured by the pope, was
soon submitted to by the English, who wanted leaders, and had been
of late much accustomed to usurpation and conquest.  Edwin and
Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria--"'

  `Ugh!' said the Lory, with a shiver.

  `I beg your pardon!' said the Mouse, frowning, but very
politely:  `Did you speak?'

  `Not I!' said the Lory hastily.

  `I thought you did,' said the Mouse.  `--I proceed.  "Edwin and
Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria, declared for him:
and even Stigand, the patriotic archbishop of Canterbury, found
it advisable--"'

  `Found WHAT?' said the Duck.

  `Found IT,' the Mouse replied rather crossly:  `of course you
know what "it" means.'

  `I know what "it" means well enough, when I find a thing,' said
the Duck:  `it's generally a frog or a worm.  The question is,
what did the archbishop find?'

  The Mouse did not notice this question, but hurriedly went on,
`"--found it advisable to go with Edgar Atheling to meet William
and offer him the crown.  William's conduct at first was
moderate.  But the insolence of his Normans--"  How are you
getting on now, my dear?' it continued, turning to Alice as it
spoke.

  `As wet as ever,' said Alice in a melancholy tone:  `it doesn't
seem to dry me at all.'

  `In that case,' said the Dodo solemnly, rising to its feet, `I
move that the meeting adjourn, for the immediate adoption of more
energetic remedies--'

  `Speak English!' said the Eaglet.  `I don't know the meaning of
half those long words, and, what's more, I don't believe you do
either!'  And the Eaglet bent down its head to hide a smile:
some of the other birds tittered audibly.

  `What I was going to say,' said the Dodo in an offended tone,
`was, that the best thing to get us dry would be a Caucus-race.'

  `What IS a Caucus-race?' said Alice; not that she wanted much
to know, but the Dodo had paused as if it thought that SOMEBODY
ought to speak, and no one else seemed inclined to say anything.

  `Why,' said the Dodo, `the best way to explain it is to do it.'
(And, as you might like to try the thing yourself, some winter
day, I will tell you how the Dodo managed it.)

  First it marked out a race-course, in a sort of circle, (`the
exact shape doesn't matter,' it said,) and then all the party
were placed along the course, here and there.  There was no `One,
two, three, and away,' but they began running when they liked,
and left off when they liked, so that it was not easy to know
when the race was over.  However, when they had been running half
an hour or so, and were quite dry again, the Dodo suddenly called
out `The race is over!' and they all crowded round it, panting,
and asking, `But who has won?'

  This question the Dodo could not answer without a great deal of
thought, and it sat for a long time with one finger pressed upon
its forehead (the position in which you usually see Shakespeare,
in the pictures of him), while the rest waited in silence.  At
last the Dodo said, `EVERYBODY has won, and all must have
prizes.'

  `But who is to give the prizes?' quite a chorus of voices
asked.

  `Why, SHE, of course,' said the Dodo, pointing to Alice with
one finger; and the whole party at once crowded round her,
calling out in a confused way, `Prizes! Prizes!'

  Alice had no idea what to do, and in despair she put her hand
in her pocket, and pulled out a box of comfits, (luckily the salt
water had not got into it), and handed them round as prizes.
There was exactly one a-piece all round.

  `But she must have a prize herself, you know,' said the Mouse.

  `Of course,' the Dodo replied very gravely.  `What else have
you got in your pocket?' he went on, turning to Alice.

  `Only a thimble,' said Alice sadly.

  `Hand it over here,' said the Dodo.

  Then they all crowded round her once more, while the Dodo
solemnly presented the thimble, saying `We beg your acceptance of
this elegant thimble'; and, when it had finished this short
speech, they all cheered.

  Alice thought the whole thing very absurd, but they all looked
so grave that she did not dare to laugh; and, as she could not
think of anything to say, she simply bowed, and took the thimble,
looking as solemn as she could.

  The next thing was to eat the comfits:  this caused some noise
and confusion, as the large birds complained that they could not
taste theirs, and the small ones choked and had to be patted on
the back.  However, it was over at last, and they sat down again
in a ring, and begged the Mouse to tell them something more.

  `You promised to tell me your history, you know,' said Alice,
`and why it is you hate--C and D,' she added in a whisper, half
afraid that it would be offended again.

  `Mine is a long and a sad tale!' said the Mouse, turning to
Alice, and sighing.

  `It IS a long tail, certainly,' said Alice, looking down with
wonder at the Mouse's tail; `but why do you call it sad?'  And
she kept on puzzling about it while the Mouse was speaking, so
that her idea of the tale was something like this:--

                    `Fury said to a
                   mouse, That he
                 met in the
               house,
            "Let us
              both go to
                law:  I will
                  prosecute
                    YOU.  --Come,
                       I'll take no
                        denial; We
                     must have a
                 trial:  For
              really this
           morning I've
          nothing
         to do."
           Said the
             mouse to the
               cur, "Such
                 a trial,
                   dear Sir,
                         With
                     no jury
                  or judge,
                would be
              wasting
             our
              breath."
               "I'll be
                 judge, I'll
                   be jury,"
                         Said
                    cunning
                      old Fury:
                     "I'll
                      try the
                         whole
                          cause,
                             and
                        condemn
                       you
                      to
                       death."'


  `You are not attending!' said the Mouse to Alice severely.
`What are you thinking of?'

  `I beg your pardon,' said Alice very humbly:  `you had got to
the fifth bend, I think?'

  `I had NOT!' cried the Mouse, sharply and very angrily.

  `A knot!' said Alice, always ready to make herself useful, and
looking anxiously about her.  `Oh, do let me help to undo it!'

  `I shall do nothing of the sort,' said the Mouse, getting up
and walking away.  `You insult me by talking such nonsense!'

  `I didn't mean it!' pleaded poor Alice.  `But you're so easily
offended, you know!'

  The Mouse only growled in reply.

  `Please come back and finish your story!' Alice called after
it; and the others all joined in chorus, `Yes, please do!' but
the Mouse only shook its head impatiently, and walked a little
quicker.

  `What a pity it wouldn't stay!' sighed the Lory, as soon as it
was quite out of sight; and an old Crab took the opportunity of
saying to her daughter `Ah, my dear!  Let this be a lesson to you
never to lose YOUR temper!'  `Hold your tongue, Ma!' said the
young Crab, a little snappishly.  `You're enough to try the
patience of an oyster!'

  `I wish I had our Dinah here, I know I do!' said Alice aloud,
addressing nobody in particular.  `She'd soon fetch it back!'

  `And who is Dinah, if I might venture to ask the question?'
said the Lory.

  Alice replied eagerly, for she was always ready to talk about
her pet:  `Dinah's our cat.  And she's such a capital one for
catching mice you can't think!  And oh, I wish you could see her
after the birds!  Why, she'll eat a little bird as soon as look
at it!'

  This speech caused a remarkable sensation among the party.
Some of the birds hurried off at once:  one the old Magpie began
wrapping itself up very carefully, remarking, `I really must be
getting home; the night-air doesn't suit my throat!' and a Canary
called out in a trembling voice to its children, `Come away, my
dears!  It's high time you were all in bed!'  On various pretexts
they all moved off, and Alice was soon left alone.

  `I wish I hadn't mentioned Dinah!' she said to herself in a
melancholy tone.  `Nobody seems to like her, down here, and I'm
sure she's the best cat in the world!  Oh, my dear Dinah!  I
wonder if I shall ever see you any more!'  And here poor Alice
began to cry again, for she felt very lonely and low-spirited.
In a little while, however, she again heard a little pattering of
footsteps in the distance, and she looked up eagerly, half hoping
that the Mouse had changed his mind, and was coming back to
finish his story.



                           CHAPTER IV

                The Rabbit Sends in a Little Bill


  It was the White Rabbit, trotting slowly back again, and
looking anxiously about as it went, as if it had lost something;
and she heard it muttering to itself `The Duchess!  The Duchess!
Oh my dear paws!  Oh my fur and whiskers!  She'll get me
executed, as sure as ferrets are ferrets!  Where CAN I have
dropped them, I wonder?'  Alice guessed in a moment that it was
looking for the fan and the pair of white kid gloves, and she
very good-naturedly began hunting about for them, but they were
nowhere to be seen--everything seemed to have changed since her
swim in the pool, and the great hall, with the glass table and
the little door, had vanished completely.

  Very soon the Rabbit noticed Alice, as she went hunting about,
and called out to her in an angry tone, `Why, Mary Ann, what ARE
you doing out here?  Run home this moment, and fetch me a pair of
gloves and a fan!  Quick, now!'  And Alice was so much frightened
that she ran off at once in the direction it pointed to, without
trying to explain the mistake it had made.

  `He took me for his housemaid,' she said to herself as she ran.
`How surprised he'll be when he finds out who I am!  But I'd
better take him his fan and gloves--that is, if I can find them.'
As she said this, she came upon a neat little house, on the door
of which was a bright brass plate with the name `W. RABBIT'
engraved upon it.  She went in without knocking, and hurried
upstairs, in great fear lest she should meet the real Mary Ann,
and be turned out of the house before she had found the fan and
gloves.

  `How queer it seems,' Alice said to herself, `to be going
messages for a rabbit!  I suppose Dinah'll be sending me on
messages next!'  And she began fancying the sort of thing that
would happen:  `"Miss Alice!  Come here directly, and get ready
for your walk!" "Coming in a minute, nurse!  But I've got to see
that the mouse doesn't get out."  Only I don't think,' Alice went
on, `that they'd let Dinah stop in the house if it began ordering
people about like that!'

  By this time she had found her way into a tidy little room with
a table in the window, and on it (as she had hoped) a fan and two
or three pairs of tiny white kid gloves:  she took up the fan and
a pair of the gloves, and was just going to leave the room, when
her eye fell upon a little bottle that stood near the looking-
glass.  There was no label this time with the words `DRINK ME,'
but nevertheless she uncorked it and put it to her lips.  `I know
SOMETHING interesting is sure to happen,' she said to herself,
`whenever I eat or drink anything; so I'll just see what this
bottle does.  I do hope it'll make me grow large again, for
really I'm quite tired of being such a tiny little thing!'

  It did so indeed, and much sooner than she had expected:
before she had drunk half the bottle, she found her head pressing
against the ceiling, and had to stoop to save her neck from being
broken.  She hastily put down the bottle, saying to herself
`That's quite enough--I hope I shan't grow any more--As it is, I
can't get out at the door--I do wish I hadn't drunk quite so
much!'

  Alas! it was too late to wish that!  She went on growing, and
growing, and very soon had to kneel down on the floor:  in
another minute there was not even room for this, and she tried
the effect of lying down with one elbow against the door, and the
other arm curled round her head.  Still she went on growing, and,
as a last resource, she put one arm out of the window, and one
foot up the chimney, and said to herself `Now I can do no more,
whatever happens.  What WILL become of me?'

  Luckily for Alice, the little magic bottle had now had its full
effect, and she grew no larger:  still it was very uncomfortable,
and, as there seemed to be no sort of chance of her ever getting
out of the room again, no wonder she felt unhappy.

  `It was much pleasanter at home,' thought poor Alice, `when one
wasn't always growing larger and smaller, and being ordered about
by mice and rabbits.  I almost wish I hadn't gone down that
rabbit-hole--and yet--and yet--it's rather curious, you know,
this sort of life!  I do wonder what CAN have happened to me!
When I used to read fairy-tales, I fancied that kind of thing
never happened, and now here I am in the middle of one!  There
ought to be a book written about me, that there ought!  And when
I grow up, I'll write one--but I'm grown up now,' she added in a
sorrowful tone; `at least there's no room to grow up any more
HERE.'

  `But then,' thought Alice, `shall I NEVER get any older than I
am now?  That'll be a comfort, one way--never to be an old woman-
-but then--always to have lessons to learn!  Oh, I shouldn't like
THAT!'

  `Oh, you foolish Alice!' she answered herself.  `How can you
learn lessons in here?  Why, there's hardly room for YOU, and no
room at all for any lesson-books!'

  And so she went on, taking first one side and then the other,
and making quite a conversation of it altogether; but after a few
minutes she heard a voice outside, and stopped to listen.

  `Mary Ann!  Mary Ann!' said the voice.  `Fetch me my gloves
this moment!'  Then came a little pattering of feet on the
stairs.  Alice knew it was the Rabbit coming to look for her, and
she trembled till she shook the house, quite forgetting that she
was now about a thousand times as large as the Rabbit, and had no
reason to be afraid of it.

  Presently the Rabbit came up to the door, and tried to open it;
but, as the door opened inwards, and Alice's elbow was pressed
hard against it, that attempt proved a failure.  Alice heard it
say to itself `Then I'll go round and get in at the window.'

  `THAT you won't' thought Alice, and, after waiting till she
fancied she heard the Rabbit just under the window, she suddenly
spread out her hand, and made a snatch in the air.  She did not
get hold of anything, but she heard a little shriek and a fall,
and a crash of broken glass, froN DSRXS HSV XLMXOFWVW GSZG RG DZH
QFHG KLHHRYOV RG SZW UZOOVM RMGL Z XFXFNYVI-UIZNV, LI HLNVGSRMT
LU GSV HLIG.

  MVCG XZNV ZM ZMTIB ELRXV--GSV IZYYRG'H--`KZG! KZG!  DSVIV ZIV
BLF?'  ZMW GSVM Z ELRXV HSV SZW MVEVI SVZIW YVULIV, `HFIV GSVM
R'N SVIV!  WRTTRMT ULI ZKKOVH, BVI SLMLFI!'

  `WRTTRMT ULI ZKKOVH, RMWVVW!' HZRW GSV IZYYRG ZMTIROB.  `SVIV!
XLNV ZMW SVOK NV LFG LU GSRH!'  (HLFMWH LU NLIV YILPVM TOZHH.)

  `MLD GVOO NV, KZG, DSZG'H GSZG RM GSV DRMWLD?'

  `HFIV, RG'H ZM ZIN, BVI SLMLFI!'  (SV KILMLFMXVW RG `ZIIFN.')

  `ZM ZIN, BLF TLLHV!   DSL VEVI HZD LMV GSZG HRAV?  DSB, RG
UROOH GSV DSLOV DRMWLD!'

  `HFIV, RG WLVH, BVI SLMLFI:  YFG RG'H ZM ZIN ULI ZOO GSZG.'

  `DVOO, RG'H TLG ML YFHRMVHH GSVIV, ZG ZMB IZGV:  TL ZMW GZPV RG
ZDZB!'

  GSVIV DZH Z OLMT HROVMXV ZUGVI GSRH, ZMW ZORXV XLFOW LMOB SVZI
DSRHKVIH MLD ZMW GSVM; HFXS ZH, `HFIV, R WLM'G ORPV RG, BVI
SLMLFI, ZG ZOO, ZG ZOO!'  `WL ZH R GVOO BLF, BLF XLDZIW!' ZMW ZG
OZHG HSV HKIVZW LFG SVI SZMW ZTZRM, ZMW NZWV ZMLGSVI HMZGXS RM
GSV ZRI.  GSRH GRNV GSVIV DVIV GDL ORGGOV HSIRVPH, ZMW NLIV
HLFMWH LU YILPVM TOZHH.  `DSZG Z MFNYVI LU XFXFNYVI-UIZNVH GSVIV
NFHG YV!' GSLFTSG ZORXV.  `R DLMWVI DSZG GSVB'OO WL MVCG!  ZH ULI
KFOORMT NV LFG LU GSV DRMWLD, R LMOB DRHS GSVB XLFOW!  R'N HFIV R
WLM'G DZMG GL HGZB RM SVIV ZMB OLMTVI!'

  HSV DZRGVW ULI HLNV GRNV DRGSLFG SVZIRMT ZMBGSRMT NLIV:  ZG
OZHG XZNV Z IFNYORMT LU ORGGOV XZIGDSVVOH, ZMW GSV HLFMW LU Z
TLLW NZMB ELRXV ZOO GZOPRMT GLTVGSVI:  HSV NZWV LFG GSV DLIWH:
`DSVIV'H GSV LGSVI OZWWVI?--DSB, R SZWM'G GL YIRMT YFG LMV;
YROO'H TLG GSV LGSVI--YROO! UVGXS RG SVIV, OZW!--SVIV, KFG 'VN FK
ZG GSRH XLIMVI--ML, GRV 'VN GLTVGSVI URIHG--GSVB WLM'G IVZXS SZOU
SRTS VMLFTS BVG--LS! GSVB'OO WL DVOO VMLFTS; WLM'G YV KZIGRXFOZI-
-SVIV, YROO! XZGXS SLOW LU GSRH ILKV--DROO GSV ILLU YVZI?--NRMW
GSZG OLLHV HOZGV--LS, RG'H XLNRMT WLDM!  SVZWH YVOLD!' (Z OLFW
XIZHS)--`MLD, DSL WRW GSZG?--RG DZH YROO, R UZMXB--DSL'H GL TL
WLDM GSV XSRNMVB?--MZB, R HSZM'G! BLF WL RG!--GSZG R DLM'G,
GSVM!--YROO'H GL TL WLDM--SVIV, YROO! GSV NZHGVI HZBH BLF'IV GL
TL WLDM GSV XSRNMVB!'

  `LS! HL YROO'H TLG GL XLNV WLDM GSV XSRNMVB, SZH SV?' HZRW
ZORXV GL SVIHVOU.  `HSB, GSVB HVVN GL KFG VEVIBGSRMT FKLM YROO!
R DLFOWM'G YV RM YROO'H KOZXV ULI Z TLLW WVZO:  GSRH URIVKOZXV RH
MZIILD, GL YV HFIV; YFG R GSRMP R XZM PRXP Z ORGGOV!'

  HSV WIVD SVI ULLG ZH UZI WLDM GSV XSRNMVB ZH HSV XLFOW, ZMW
DZRGVW GROO HSV SVZIW Z ORGGOV ZMRNZO (HSV XLFOWM'G TFVHH LU DSZG
HLIG RG DZH) HXIZGXSRMT ZMW HXIZNYORMT ZYLFG RM GSV XSRNMVB XOLHV
ZYLEV SVI:  GSVM, HZBRMT GL SVIHVOU `GSRH RH YROO,' HSV TZEV LMV
HSZIK PRXP, ZMW DZRGVW GL HVV DSZG DLFOW SZKKVM MVCG.

  GSV URIHG GSRMT HSV SVZIW DZH Z TVMVIZO XSLIFH LU `GSVIV TLVH
YROO!' GSVM GSV IZYYRG'H ELRXV ZOLMT--`XZGXS SRN, BLF YB GSV
SVWTV!' GSVM HROVMXV, ZMW GSVM ZMLGSVI XLMUFHRLM LU ELRXVH--`SLOW
FK SRH SVZW--YIZMWB MLD--WLM'G XSLPV SRN--SLD DZH RG, LOW UVOOLD?
DSZG SZKKVMVW GL BLF?  GVOO FH ZOO ZYLFG RG!'

  OZHG XZNV Z ORGGOV UVVYOV, HJFVZPRMT ELRXV, (`GSZG'H YROO,'
GSLFTSG ZORXV,) `DVOO, R SZIWOB PMLD--ML NLIV, GSZMP BV; R'N
YVGGVI MLD--YFG R'N Z WVZO GLL UOFHGVIVW GL GVOO BLF--ZOO R PMLD
RH, HLNVGSRMT XLNVH ZG NV ORPV Z QZXP-RM-GSV-YLC, ZMW FK R TLVH
ORPV Z HPB-ILXPVG!'

  `HL BLF WRW, LOW UVOOLD!' HZRW GSV LGSVIH.

  `DV NFHG YFIM GSV SLFHV WLDM!' HZRW GSV IZYYRG'H ELRXV; ZMW
ZORXV XZOOVW LFG ZH OLFW ZH HSV XLFOW, `RU BLF WL.  R'OO HVG
WRMZS ZG BLF!'

  GSVIV DZH Z WVZW HROVMXV RMHGZMGOB, ZMW ZORXV GSLFTSG GL
SVIHVOU, `R DLMWVI DSZG GSVB DROO WL MVCG!  RU GSVB SZW ZMB
HVMHV, GSVB'W GZPV GSV ILLU LUU.'  ZUGVI Z NRMFGV LI GDL, GSVB
YVTZM NLERMT ZYLFG ZTZRM, ZMW ZORXV SVZIW GSV IZYYRG HZB, `Z
YZIILDUFO DROO WL, GL YVTRM DRGS.'

  `Z YZIILDUFO LU DSZG?' GSLFTSG ZORXV; YFG HSV SZW MLG OLMT GL
WLFYG, ULI GSV MVCG NLNVMG Z HSLDVI LU ORGGOV KVYYOVH XZNV
IZGGORMT RM ZG GSV DRMWLD, ZMW HLNV LU GSVN SRG SVI RM GSV UZXV.
`R'OO KFG Z HGLK GL GSRH,' HSV HZRW GL SVIHVOU, ZMW HSLFGVW LFG,
`BLF'W YVGGVI MLG WL GSZG ZTZRM!' DSRXS KILWFXVW ZMLGSVI WVZW
HROVMXV.

  ZORXV MLGRXVW DRGS HLNV HFIKIRHV GSZG GSV KVYYOVH DVIV ZOO
GFIMRMT RMGL ORGGOV XZPVH ZH GSVB OZB LM GSV UOLLI, ZMW Z YIRTSG
RWVZ XZNV RMGL SVI SVZW.  `RU R VZG LMV LU GSVHV XZPVH,' HSV
GSLFTSG, `RG'H HFIV GL NZPV HLNV XSZMTV RM NB HRAV; ZMW ZH RG
XZM'G KLHHRYOB NZPV NV OZITVI, RG NFHG NZPV NV HNZOOVI, R
HFKKLHV.'

  HL HSV HDZOOLDVW LMV LU GSV XZPVH, ZMW DZH WVORTSGVW GL URMW
GSZG HSV YVTZM HSIRMPRMT WRIVXGOB.  ZH HLLM ZH HSV DZH HNZOO
VMLFTS GL TVG GSILFTS GSV WLLI, HSV IZM LFG LU GSV SLFHV, ZMW
ULFMW JFRGV Z XILDW LU ORGGOV ZMRNZOH ZMW YRIWH DZRGRMT LFGHRWV.
GSV KLLI ORGGOV ORAZIW, YROO, DZH RM GSV NRWWOV, YVRMT SVOW FK YB
GDL TFRMVZ-KRTH, DSL DVIV TRERMT RG HLNVGSRMT LFG LU Z YLGGOV.
GSVB ZOO NZWV Z IFHS ZG ZORXV GSV NLNVMG HSV ZKKVZIVW; YFG HSV
IZM LUU ZH SZIW ZH HSV XLFOW, ZMW HLLM ULFMW SVIHVOU HZUV RM Z
GSRXP DLLW.

  `GSV URIHG GSRMT R'EV TLG GL WL,' HZRW ZORXV GL SVIHVOU, ZH HSV
DZMWVIVW ZYLFG RM GSV DLLW, `RH GL TILD GL NB IRTSG HRAV ZTZRM;
ZMW GSV HVXLMW GSRMT RH GL URMW NB DZB RMGL GSZG OLEVOB TZIWVM.
R GSRMP GSZG DROO YV GSV YVHG KOZM.'

  RG HLFMWVW ZM VCXVOOVMG KOZM, ML WLFYG, ZMW EVIB MVZGOB ZMW
HRNKOB ZIIZMTVW; GSV LMOB WRUURXFOGB DZH, GSZG HSV SZW MLG GSV
HNZOOVHG RWVZ SLD GL HVG ZYLFG RG; ZMW DSROV HSV DZH KVVIRMT
ZYLFG ZMCRLFHOB ZNLMT GSV GIVVH, Z ORGGOV HSZIK YZIP QFHG LEVI
SVI SVZW NZWV SVI OLLP FK RM Z TIVZG SFIIB.

  ZM VMLINLFH KFKKB DZH OLLPRMT WLDM ZG SVI DRGS OZITV ILFMW
VBVH, ZMW UVVYOB HGIVGXSRMT LFG LMV KZD, GIBRMT GL GLFXS SVI.
`KLLI ORGGOV GSRMT!' HZRW ZORXV, RM Z XLZCRMT GLMV, ZMW HSV GIRVW
SZIW GL DSRHGOV GL RG; YFG HSV DZH GVIIRYOB UIRTSGVMVW ZOO GSV
GRNV ZG GSV GSLFTSG GSZG RG NRTSG YV SFMTIB, RM DSRXS XZHV RG
DLFOW YV EVIB ORPVOB GL VZG SVI FK RM HKRGV LU ZOO SVI XLZCRMT.

  SZIWOB PMLDRMT DSZG HSV WRW, HSV KRXPVW FK Z ORGGOV YRG LU
HGRXP, ZMW SVOW RG LFG GL GSV KFKKB; DSVIVFKLM GSV KFKKB QFNKVW
RMGL GSV ZRI LUU ZOO RGH UVVG ZG LMXV, DRGS Z BVOK LU WVORTSG,
ZMW IFHSVW ZG GSV HGRXP, ZMW NZWV YVORVEV GL DLIIB RG; GSVM ZORXV
WLWTVW YVSRMW Z TIVZG GSRHGOV, GL PVVK SVIHVOU UILN YVRMT IFM
LEVI; ZMW GSV NLNVMG HSV ZKKVZIVW LM GSV LGSVI HRWV, GSV KFKKB
NZWV ZMLGSVI IFHS ZG GSV HGRXP, ZMW GFNYOVW SVZW LEVI SVVOH RM
RGH SFIIB GL TVG SLOW LU RG; GSVM ZORXV, GSRMPRMT RG DZH EVIB
ORPV SZERMT Z TZNV LU KOZB DRGS Z XZIG-SLIHV, ZMW VCKVXGRMT VEVIB
NLNVMG GL YV GIZNKOVW FMWVI RGH UVVG, IZM ILFMW GSV GSRHGOV
ZTZRM; GSVM GSV KFKKB YVTZM Z HVIRVH LU HSLIG XSZITVH ZG GSV
HGRXP, IFMMRMT Z EVIB ORGGOV DZB ULIDZIWH VZXS GRNV ZMW Z OLMT
DZB YZXP, ZMW YZIPRMT SLZIHVOB ZOO GSV DSROV, GROO ZG OZHG RG HZG
WLDM Z TLLW DZB LUU, KZMGRMT, DRGS RGH GLMTFV SZMTRMT LFG LU RGH
NLFGS, ZMW RGH TIVZG VBVH SZOU HSFG.

  GSRH HVVNVW GL ZORXV Z TLLW LKKLIGFMRGB ULI NZPRMT SVI VHXZKV;
HL HSV HVG LUU ZG LMXV, ZMW IZM GROO HSV DZH JFRGV GRIVW ZMW LFG
LU YIVZGS, ZMW GROO GSV KFKKB'H YZIP HLFMWVW JFRGV UZRMG RM GSV
WRHGZMXV.

  `ZMW BVG DSZG Z WVZI ORGGOV KFKKB RG DZH!' HZRW ZORXV, ZH HSV
OVZMG ZTZRMHG Z YFGGVIXFK GL IVHG SVIHVOU, ZMW UZMMVW SVIHVOU
DRGS LMV LU GSV OVZEVH:  `R HSLFOW SZEV ORPVW GVZXSRMT RG GIRXPH
EVIB NFXS, RU--RU R'W LMOB YVVM GSV IRTSG HRAV GL WL RG!  LS
WVZI!  R'W MVZIOB ULITLGGVM GSZG R'EV TLG GL TILD FK ZTZRM!  OVG
NV HVV--SLD RH RG GL YV NZMZTVW?  R HFKKLHV R LFTSG GL VZG LI
WIRMP HLNVGSRMT LI LGSVI; YFG GSV TIVZG JFVHGRLM RH, DSZG?'

  GSV TIVZG JFVHGRLM XVIGZRMOB DZH, DSZG?  ZORXV OLLPVW ZOO ILFMW
SVI ZG GSV UOLDVIH ZMW GSV YOZWVH LU TIZHH, YFG HSV WRW MLG HVV
ZMBGSRMT GSZG OLLPVW ORPV GSV IRTSG GSRMT GL VZG LI WIRMP FMWVI
GSV XRIXFNHGZMXVH.  GSVIV DZH Z OZITV NFHSILLN TILDRMT MVZI SVI,
ZYLFG GSV HZNV SVRTSG ZH SVIHVOU; ZMW DSVM HSV SZW OLLPVW FMWVI
RG, ZMW LM YLGS HRWVH LU RG, ZMW YVSRMW RG, RG LXXFIIVW GL SVI
GSZG HSV NRTSG ZH DVOO OLLP ZMW HVV DSZG DZH LM GSV GLK LU RG.

  HSV HGIVGXSVW SVIHVOU FK LM GRKGLV, ZMW KVVKVW LEVI GSV VWTV LU
GSV NFHSILLN, ZMW SVI VBVH RNNVWRZGVOB NVG GSLHV LU Z OZITV
XZGVIKROOZI, GSZG DZH HRGGRMT LM GSV GLK DRGS RGH ZINH ULOWVW,
JFRVGOB HNLPRMT Z OLMT SLLPZS, ZMW GZPRMT MLG GSV HNZOOVHG MLGRXV
LU SVI LI LU ZMBGSRMT VOHV.



                            XSZKGVI E

                    ZWERXV UILN Z XZGVIKROOZI


  GSV XZGVIKROOZI ZMW ZORXV OLLPVW ZG VZXS LGSVI ULI HLNV GRNV RM
HROVMXV:  ZG OZHG GSV XZGVIKROOZI GLLP GSV SLLPZS LFG LU RGH
NLFGS, ZMW ZWWIVHHVW SVI RM Z OZMTFRW, HOVVKB ELRXV.

  `DSL ZIV BLF?' HZRW GSV XZGVIKROOZI.

  GSRH DZH MLG ZM VMXLFIZTRMT LKVMRMT ULI Z XLMEVIHZGRLM.  ZORXV
IVKORVW, IZGSVI HSBOB, `R--R SZIWOB PMLD, HRI, QFHG ZG KIVHVMG--
ZG OVZHG R PMLD DSL R DZH DSVM R TLG FK GSRH NLIMRMT, YFG R GSRMP
R NFHG SZEV YVVM XSZMTVW HVEVIZO GRNVH HRMXV GSVM.'

  `DSZG WL BLF NVZM YB GSZG?' HZRW GSV XZGVIKROOZI HGVIMOB.
`VCKOZRM BLFIHVOU!'

  `R XZM'G VCKOZRM NBHVOU, R'N ZUIZRW, HRI' HZRW ZORXV, `YVXZFHV
R'N MLG NBHVOU, BLF HVV.'

  `R WLM'G HVV,' HZRW GSV XZGVIKROOZI.

  `R'N ZUIZRW R XZM'G KFG RG NLIV XOVZIOB,' ZORXV IVKORVW EVIB
KLORGVOB, `ULI R XZM'G FMWVIHGZMW RG NBHVOU GL YVTRM DRGS; ZMW
YVRMT HL NZMB WRUUVIVMG HRAVH RM Z WZB RH EVIB XLMUFHRMT.'

  `RG RHM'G,' HZRW GSV XZGVIKROOZI.

  `DVOO, KVISZKH BLF SZEVM'G ULFMW RG HL BVG,' HZRW ZORXV; `YFG
DSVM BLF SZEV GL GFIM RMGL Z XSIBHZORH--BLF DROO HLNV WZB, BLF
PMLD--ZMW GSVM ZUGVI GSZG RMGL Z YFGGVIUOB, R HSLFOW GSRMP BLF'OO
UVVO RG Z ORGGOV JFVVI, DLM'G BLF?'

  `MLG Z YRG,' HZRW GSV XZGVIKROOZI.

  `DVOO, KVISZKH BLFI UVVORMTH NZB YV WRUUVIVMG,' HZRW ZORXV;
`ZOO R PMLD RH, RG DLFOW UVVO EVIB JFVVI GL NV.'

  `BLF!' HZRW GSV XZGVIKROOZI XLMGVNKGFLFHOB.  `DSL ZIV BLF?'

  DSRXS YILFTSG GSVN YZXP ZTZRM GL GSV YVTRMMRMT LU GSV
XLMEVIHZGRLM.  ZORXV UVOG Z ORGGOV RIIRGZGVW ZG GSV XZGVIKROOZI'H
NZPRMT HFXS EVIB HSLIG IVNZIPH, ZMW HSV WIVD SVIHVOU FK ZMW HZRW,
EVIB TIZEVOB, `R GSRMP, BLF LFTSG GL GVOO NV DSL BLF ZIV, URIHG.'

  `DSB?' HZRW GSV XZGVIKROOZI.

  SVIV DZH ZMLGSVI KFAAORMT JFVHGRLM; ZMW ZH ZORXV XLFOW MLG
GSRMP LU ZMB TLLW IVZHLM, ZMW ZH GSV XZGVIKROOZI HVVNVW GL YV RM
Z EVIB FMKOVZHZMG HGZGV LU NRMW, HSV GFIMVW ZDZB.

  `XLNV YZXP!' GSV XZGVIKROOZI XZOOVW ZUGVI SVI.  `R'EV HLNVGSRMT
RNKLIGZMG GL HZB!'

  GSRH HLFMWVW KILNRHRMT, XVIGZRMOB:  ZORXV GFIMVW ZMW XZNV YZXP
ZTZRM.

  `PVVK BLFI GVNKVI,' HZRW GSV XZGVIKROOZI.

  `RH GSZG ZOO?' HZRW ZORXV, HDZOOLDRMT WLDM SVI ZMTVI ZH DVOO ZH
HSV XLFOW.

  `ML,' HZRW GSV XZGVIKROOZI.

  ZORXV GSLFTSG HSV NRTSG ZH DVOO DZRG, ZH HSV SZW MLGSRMT VOHV
GL WL, ZMW KVISZKH ZUGVI ZOO RG NRTSG GVOO SVI HLNVGSRMT DLIGS
SVZIRMT.  ULI HLNV NRMFGVH RG KFUUVW ZDZB DRGSLFG HKVZPRMT, YFG
ZG OZHG RG FMULOWVW RGH ZINH, GLLP GSV SLLPZS LFG LU RGH NLFGS
ZTZRM, ZMW HZRW, `HL BLF GSRMP BLF'IV XSZMTVW, WL BLF?'

  `R'N ZUIZRW R ZN, HRI,' HZRW ZORXV; `R XZM'G IVNVNYVI GSRMTH ZH
R FHVW--ZMW R WLM'G PVVK GSV HZNV HRAV ULI GVM NRMFGVH GLTVGSVI!'

  `XZM'G IVNVNYVI DSZG GSRMTH?' HZRW GSV XZGVIKROOZI.

  `DVOO, R'EV GIRVW GL HZB "SLD WLGS GSV ORGGOV YFHB YVV," YFG RG
ZOO XZNV WRUUVIVMG!' ZORXV IVKORVW RM Z EVIB NVOZMXSLOB ELRXV.

  `IVKVZG, "BLF ZIV LOW, UZGSVI DROORZN,"' HZRW GSV XZGVIKROOZI.

  ZORXV ULOWVW SVI SZMWH, ZMW YVTZM:--

    `BLF ZIV LOW, UZGSVI DROORZN,' GSV BLFMT NZM HZRW,
      `ZMW BLFI SZRI SZH YVXLNV EVIB DSRGV;
    ZMW BVG BLF RMXVHHZMGOB HGZMW LM BLFI SVZW--
      WL BLF GSRMP, ZG BLFI ZTV, RG RH IRTSG?'

    `RM NB BLFGS,' UZGSVI DROORZN IVKORVW GL SRH HLM,
      `R UVZIVW RG NRTSG RMQFIV GSV YIZRM;
    YFG, MLD GSZG R'N KVIUVXGOB HFIV R SZEV MLMV,
      DSB, R WL RG ZTZRM ZMW ZTZRM.'

    `BLF ZIV LOW,' HZRW GSV BLFGS, `ZH R NVMGRLMVW YVULIV,
      ZMW SZEV TILDM NLHG FMXLNNLMOB UZG;
    BVG BLF GFIMVW Z YZXP-HLNVIHZFOG RM ZG GSV WLLI--
      KIZB, DSZG RH GSV IVZHLM LU GSZG?'

    `RM NB BLFGS,' HZRW GSV HZTV, ZH SV HSLLP SRH TIVB OLXPH,
      `R PVKG ZOO NB ORNYH EVIB HFKKOV
    YB GSV FHV LU GSRH LRMGNVMG--LMV HSROORMT GSV YLC--
      ZOOLD NV GL HVOO BLF Z XLFKOV?'

    `BLF ZIV LOW,' HZRW GSV BLFGS, `ZMW BLFI QZDH ZIV GLL DVZP
      ULI ZMBGSRMT GLFTSVI GSZM HFVG;
    BVG BLF URMRHSVW GSV TLLHV, DRGS GSV YLMVH ZMW GSV YVZP--
      KIZB SLD WRW BLF NZMZTV GL WL RG?'

    `RM NB BLFGS,' HZRW SRH UZGSVI, `R GLLP GL GSV OZD,
      ZMW ZITFVW VZXS XZHV DRGS NB DRUV;
    ZMW GSV NFHXFOZI HGIVMTGS, DSRXS RG TZEV GL NB QZD,
      SZH OZHGVW GSV IVHG LU NB ORUV.'

    `BLF ZIV LOW,' HZRW GSV BLFGS, `LMV DLFOW SZIWOB HFKKLHV
      GSZG BLFI VBV DZH ZH HGVZWB ZH VEVI;
    BVG BLF YZOZMXVW ZM VVO LM GSV VMW LU BLFI MLHV--
      DSZG NZWV BLF HL ZDUFOOB XOVEVI?'

    `R SZEV ZMHDVIVW GSIVV JFVHGRLMH, ZMW GSZG RH VMLFTS,'
      HZRW SRH UZGSVI; `WLM'G TREV BLFIHVOU ZRIH!
    WL BLF GSRMP R XZM ORHGVM ZOO WZB GL HFXS HGFUU?
      YV LUU, LI R'OO PRXP BLF WLDM HGZRIH!'


  `GSZG RH MLG HZRW IRTSG,' HZRW GSV XZGVIKROOZI.

  `MLG JFRGV IRTSG, R'N ZUIZRW,' HZRW ZORXV, GRNRWOB; `HLNV LU GSV
DLIWH SZEV TLG ZOGVIVW.'

  `RG RH DILMT UILN YVTRMMRMT GL VMW,' HZRW GSV XZGVIKROOZI
WVXRWVWOB, ZMW GSVIV DZH HROVMXV ULI HLNV NRMFGVH.

  GSV XZGVIKROOZI DZH GSV URIHG GL HKVZP.

  `DSZG HRAV WL BLF DZMG GL YV?' RG ZHPVW.

  `LS, R'N MLG KZIGRXFOZI ZH GL HRAV,' ZORXV SZHGROB IVKORVW;
`LMOB LMV WLVHM'G ORPV XSZMTRMT HL LUGVM, BLF PMLD.'

  `R WLM'G PMLD,' HZRW GSV XZGVIKROOZI.

  ZORXV HZRW MLGSRMT:  HSV SZW MVEVI YVVM HL NFXS XLMGIZWRXGVW RM
SVI ORUV YVULIV, ZMW HSV UVOG GSZG HSV DZH OLHRMT SVI GVNKVI.

  `ZIV BLF XLMGVMG MLD?' HZRW GSV XZGVIKROOZI.

  `DVOO, R HSLFOW ORPV GL YV Z ORGGOV OZITVI, HRI, RU BLF
DLFOWM'G NRMW,' HZRW ZORXV:  `GSIVV RMXSVH RH HFXS Z DIVGXSVW
SVRTSG GL YV.'

  `RG RH Z EVIB TLLW SVRTSG RMWVVW!' HZRW GSV XZGVIKROOZI
ZMTIROB, IVZIRMT RGHVOU FKIRTSG ZH RG HKLPV (RG DZH VCZXGOB GSIVV
RMXSVH SRTS).

  `YFG R'N MLG FHVW GL RG!' KOVZWVW KLLI ZORXV RM Z KRGVLFH GLMV.
ZMW HSV GSLFTSG LU SVIHVOU, `R DRHS GSV XIVZGFIVH DLFOWM'G YV HL
VZHROB LUUVMWVW!'

  `BLF'OO TVG FHVW GL RG RM GRNV,' HZRW GSV XZGVIKROOZI; ZMW RG
KFG GSV SLLPZS RMGL RGH NLFGS ZMW YVTZM HNLPRMT ZTZRM.

  GSRH GRNV ZORXV DZRGVW KZGRVMGOB FMGRO RG XSLHV GL HKVZP ZTZRM.
RM Z NRMFGV LI GDL GSV XZGVIKROOZI GLLP GSV SLLPZS LFG LU RGH
NLFGS ZMW BZDMVW LMXV LI GDRXV, ZMW HSLLP RGHVOU.  GSVM RG TLG
WLDM LUU GSV NFHSILLN, ZMW XIZDOVW ZDZB RM GSV TIZHH, NVIVOB
IVNZIPRMT ZH RG DVMG, `LMV HRWV DROO NZPV BLF TILD GZOOVI, ZMW
GSV LGSVI HRWV DROO NZPV BLF TILD HSLIGVI.'

  `LMV HRWV LU DSZG?  GSV LGSVI HRWV LU DSZG?' GSLFTSG ZORXV GL
SVIHVOU.

  `LU GSV NFHSILLN,' HZRW GSV XZGVIKROOZI, QFHG ZH RU HSV SZW
ZHPVW RG ZOLFW; ZMW RM ZMLGSVI NLNVMG RG DZH LFG LU HRTSG.

  ZORXV IVNZRMVW OLLPRMT GSLFTSGUFOOB ZG GSV NFHSILLN ULI Z
NRMFGV, GIBRMT GL NZPV LFG DSRXS DVIV GSV GDL HRWVH LU RG; ZMW ZH
RG DZH KVIUVXGOB ILFMW, HSV ULFMW GSRH Z EVIB WRUURXFOG JFVHGRLM.
SLDVEVI, ZG OZHG HSV HGIVGXSVW SVI ZINH ILFMW RG ZH UZI ZH GSVB
DLFOW TL, ZMW YILPV LUU Z YRG LU GSV VWTV DRGS VZXS SZMW.

  `ZMW MLD DSRXS RH DSRXS?' HSV HZRW GL SVIHVOU, ZMW MRYYOVW Z
ORGGOV LU GSV IRTSG-SZMW YRG GL GIB GSV VUUVXG:  GSV MVCG NLNVMG
HSV UVOG Z ERLOVMG YOLD FMWVIMVZGS SVI XSRM:  RG SZW HGIFXP SVI
ULLG!

  HSV DZH Z TLLW WVZO UIRTSGVMVW YB GSRH EVIB HFWWVM XSZMTV, YFG
HSV UVOG GSZG GSVIV DZH ML GRNV GL YV OLHG, ZH HSV DZH HSIRMPRMT
IZKRWOB; HL HSV HVG GL DLIP ZG LMXV GL VZG HLNV LU GSV LGSVI YRG.
SVI XSRM DZH KIVHHVW HL XOLHVOB ZTZRMHG SVI ULLG, GSZG GSVIV DZH
