voice, to the company generally, `You are all pardoned.'  `Come,
THAT'S a good thing!' she said to herself, for she had felt quite
unhappy at the number of executions the Queen had ordered.

  They very soon came upon a Gryphon, lying fast asleep in the
sun.  (IF you don't know what a Gryphon is, look at the picture.)
`Up, lazy thing!' said the Queen, `and take this young lady to
see the Mock Turtle, and to hear his history.  I must go back and
see after some executions I have ordered'; and she walked off,
leaving Alice alone with the Gryphon.  Alice did not quite like
the look of the creature, but on the whole she thought it would
be quite as safe to stay with it as to go after that savage
Queen:  so she waited.

  The Gryphon sat up and rubbed its eyes:  then it watched the
Queen till she was out of sight:  then it chuckled.  `What fun!'
said the Gryphon, half to itself, half to Alice.

  `What IS the fun?' said Alice.

  `Why, SHE,' said the Gryphon.  `It's all her fancy, that:  they
never executes nobody, you know.  Come on!'

  `Everybody says "come on!" here,' thought Alice, as she went
slowly after it:  `I never was so ordered about in all my life,
never!'

  They had not gone far before they saw the Mock Turtle in the
distance, sitting sad and lonely on a little ledge of rock, and,
as they came nearer, Alice could hear him sighing as if his heart
would break.  She pitied him deeply.  `What is his sorrow?' she
asked the Gryphon, and the Gryphon answered, very nearly in the
same words as before, `It's all his fancy, that:  he hasn't got
no sorrow, you know.  Come on!'

  So they went up to the Mock Turtle, who looked at them with
large eyes full of tears, but said nothing.

  `This here young lady,' said the Gryphon, `she wants for to
know your history, she do.'

  `I'll tell it her,' said the Mock Turtle in a deep, hollow
tone:  `sit down, both of you, and don't speak a word till I've
finished.'

  So they sat down, and nobody spoke for some minutes.  Alice
thought to herself, `I don't see how he can EVEN finish, if he
doesn't begin.'  But she waited patiently.

  `Once,' said the Mock Turtle at last, with a deep sigh, `I was
a real Turtle.'

  These words were followed by a very long silence, broken only
by an occasional exclamation of `Hjckrrh!' from the Gryphon, and
the constant heavy sobbing of the Mock Turtle.  Alice was very
nearly getting up and saying, `Thank you, sir, for your
interesting story,' but she could not help thinking there MUST be
more to come, so she sat still and said nothing.

  `When we were little,' the Mock Turtle went on at last, more
calmly, though still sobbing a little now and then, `we went to
school in the sea.  The master was an old Turtle--we used to call
him Tortoise--'

  `Why did you call him Tortoise, if he wasn't one?' Alice asked.

  `We called him Tortoise because he taught us,' said the Mock
Turtle angrily:  `really you are very dull!'

  `You ought to be ashamed of yourself for asking such a simple
question,' added the Gryphon; and then they both sat silent and
looked at poor Alice, who felt ready to sink into the earth.  At
last the Gryphon said to the Mock Turtle, `Drive on, old fellow!
Don't be all day about it!' and he went on in these words:

  `Yes, we went to school in the sea, though you mayn't believe
it--'

  `I never said I didn't!' interrupted Alice.

  `You did,' said the Mock Turtle.

  `Hold your tongue!' added the Gryphon, before Alice could speak
again.  The Mock Turtle went on.

  `We had the best of educations--in fact, we went to school
every day--'

  `I'VE been to a day-school, too,' said Alice; `you needn't be
so proud as all that.'

  `With extras?' asked the Mock Turtle a little anxiously.

  `Yes,' said Alice, `we learned French and music.'

  `And washing?' said the Mock Turtle.

  `Certainly not!' said Alice indignantly.

  `Ah! then yours wasn't a really good school,' said the Mock
Turtle in a tone of great relief.  `Now at OURS they had at the
end of the bill, "French, music, AND WASHING--extra."'

  `You couldn't have wanted it much,' said Alice; `living at the
bottom of the sea.'

  `I couldn't afford to learn it.' said the Mock Turtle with a
sigh.  `I only took the regular course.'

  `What was that?' inquired Alice.

  `Reeling and Writhing, of course, to begin with,' the Mock
Turtle replied; `and then the different branches of Arithmetic--
Ambition, Distraction, Uglification, and Derision.'

  `I never heard of "Uglification,"' Alice ventured to say.  `What
is it?'

  The Gryphon lifted up both its paws in surprise.  `What!  Never
heard of uglifying!' it exclaimed.  `You know what to beautify
is, I suppose?'

  `Yes,' said Alice doubtfully:  `it means--to--make--anything--
prettier.'

  `Well, then,' the Gryphon went on, `if you don't know what to
uglify is, you ARE a simpleton.'

  Alice did not feel encouraged to ask any more questions about
it, so she turned to the Mock Turtle, and said `What else had you
to learn?'

  `Well, there was Mystery,' the Mock Turtle replied, counting
off the subjects on his flappers, `--Mystery, ancient and modern,
with Seaography:  then Drawling--the Drawling-master was an old
conger-eel, that used to come once a week:  HE taught us
Drawling, Stretching, and Fainting in Coils.'

  `What was THAT like?' said Alice.

  `Well, I can't show it you myself,' the Mock Turtle said:  `I'm
too stiff.  And the Gryphon never learnt it.'

  `Hadn't time,' said the Gryphon:  `I went to the Classics
master, though.  He was an old crab, HE was.'

  `I never went to him,' the Mock Turtle said with a sigh:  `he
taught Laughing and Grief, they used to say.'

  `So he did, so he did,' said the Gryphon, sighing in his turn;
and both creatures hid their faces in their paws.

  `And how many hours a day did you do lessons?' said Alice, in a
hurry to change the subject.

  `Ten hours the first day,' said the Mock Turtle: `nine the
next, and so on.'

  `What a curious plan!' exclaimed Alice.

  `That's the reason they're called lessons,' the Gryphon
remarked:  `because they lessen from day to day.'

  This was quite a new idea to Alice, and she thought it over a
little before she made her next remark.  `Then the eleventh day
must have been a holiday?'

  `Of course it was,' said the Mock Turtle.

  `And how did you manage on the twelfth?' Alice went on eagerly.

  `That's enough about lessons,' the Gryphon interrupted in a
very decided tone:  `tell her something about the games now.'



                            CHAPTER X

                      The Lobster Quadrille


  The Mock Turtle sighed deeply, and drew the back of one flapper
across his eyes.  He looked at Alice, and tried to speak, but for
a minute or two sobs choked his voice.  `Same as if he had a bone
in his throat,' said the Gryphon:  and it set to work shaking him
and punching him in the back.  At last the Mock Turtle recovered
his voice, and, with tears running down his cheeks, he went on
again:--

  `You may not have lived much under the sea--' (`I haven't,'
said Alice)--`and perhaps you were never even introduced to a lobster--'
(Alice began to say `I once tasted--' but checked herself hastily,
and said `No, never') `--so you can have no idea what a delightful
thing a Lobster Quadrille is!'

  `No, indeed,' said Alice.  `What sort of a dance is it?'

  `Why,' said the Gryphon, `you first form into a line along the
sea-shore--'

  `Two lines!' cried the Mock Turtle.  `Seals, turtles, salmon,
and so on; then, when you've cleared all the jelly-fish out of
the way--'

  `THAT generally takes some time,' interrupted the Gryphon.

  `--you advance twice--'

  `Each with a lobster as a partner!' cried the Gryphon.

  `Of course,' the Mock Turtle said:  `advance twice, set to
partners--'

  `--change lobsters, and retire in same order,' continued the
Gryphon.

  `Then, you know,' the Mock Turtle went on, `you throw the--'

  `The lobsters!' shouted the Gryphon, with a bound into the air.

  `--as far out to sea as you can--'

  `Swim after them!' screamed the Gryphon.

  `Turn a somersault in the sea!' cried the Mock Turtle,
capering wildly about.

  `Back to land again, and that's all the first figure,' said the
Mock Turtle, suddenly dropping his voice; and the two creatures,
who had been jumping about like mad things all this time, sat
down again very sadly and quietly, and looked at Alice.

  `It must be a very pretty dance,' said Alice timidly.

  `Would you like to see a littlV LU RG?' HZRW GSV NLXP GFIGOV.

  `EVIB NFXS RMWVVW,' HZRW ZORXV.

  `XLNV, OVG'H GIB GSV URIHG URTFIV!' HZRW GSV NLXP GFIGOV GL GSV
TIBKSLM.  `DV XZM WL DRGSLFG OLYHGVIH, BLF PMLD.  DSRXS HSZOO
HRMT?'

  `LS, BLF HRMT,' HZRW GSV TIBKSLM.  `R'EV ULITLGGVM GSV DLIWH.'

  HL GSVB YVTZM HLOVNMOB WZMXRMT ILFMW ZMW ILFMW ZORXV, VEVIB MLD
ZMW GSVM GIVZWRMT LM SVI GLVH DSVM GSVB KZHHVW GLL XOLHV, ZMW
DZERMT GSVRI ULIVKZDH GL NZIP GSV GRNV, DSROV GSV NLXP GFIGOV
HZMT GSRH, EVIB HOLDOB ZMW HZWOB:--


`"DROO BLF DZOP Z ORGGOV UZHGVI?" HZRW Z DSRGRMT GL Z HMZRO.
"GSVIV'H Z KLIKLRHV XOLHV YVSRMW FH, ZMW SV'H GIVZWRMT LM NB
 GZRO.
HVV SLD VZTVIOB GSV OLYHGVIH ZMW GSV GFIGOVH ZOO ZWEZMXV!
GSVB ZIV DZRGRMT LM GSV HSRMTOV--DROO BLF XLNV ZMW QLRM GSV
WZMXV?

DROO BLF, DLM'G BLF, DROO BLF, DLM'G BLF, DROO BLF QLRM GSV
WZMXV?
DROO BLF, DLM'G BLF, DROO BLF, DLM'G BLF, DLM'G BLF QLRM GSV
WZMXV?


"BLF XZM IVZOOB SZEV ML MLGRLM SLD WVORTSGUFO RG DROO YV
DSVM GSVB GZPV FH FK ZMW GSILD FH, DRGS GSV OLYHGVIH, LFG GL
                                                      HVZ!"
YFG GSV HMZRO IVKORVW "GLL UZI, GLL UZI!" ZMW TZEV Z OLLP
                                                       ZHPZMXV--
HZRW SV GSZMPVW GSV DSRGRMT PRMWOB, YFG SV DLFOW MLG QLRM GSV
   WZMXV.
    DLFOW MLG, XLFOW MLG, DLFOW MLG, XLFOW MLG, DLFOW MLG QLRM
        GSV WZMXV.
    DLFOW MLG, XLFOW MLG, DLFOW MLG, XLFOW MLG, XLFOW MLG QLRM
        GSV WZMXV.

`"DSZG NZGGVIH RG SLD UZI DV TL?" SRH HXZOB UIRVMW IVKORVW.
"GSVIV RH ZMLGSVI HSLIV, BLF PMLD, FKLM GSV LGSVI HRWV.
GSV UFIGSVI LUU UILN VMTOZMW GSV MVZIVI RH GL UIZMXV--
GSVM GFIM MLG KZOV, YVOLEVW HMZRO, YFG XLNV ZMW QLRM GSV WZMXV.

    DROO BLF, DLM'G BLF, DROO BLF, DLM'G BLF, DROO BLF QLRM GSV
         WZMXV?
    DROO BLF, DLM'G BLF, DROO BLF, DLM'G BLF, DLM'G BLF QLRM GSV
         WZMXV?"'



  `GSZMP BLF, RG'H Z EVIB RMGVIVHGRMT WZMXV GL DZGXS,' HZRW
ZORXV, UVVORMT EVIB TOZW GSZG RG DZH LEVI ZG OZHG:  `ZMW R WL HL
ORPV GSZG XFIRLFH HLMT ZYLFG GSV DSRGRMT!'

  `LS, ZH GL GSV DSRGRMT,' HZRW GSV NLXP GFIGOV, `GSVB--BLF'EV
HVVM GSVN, LU XLFIHV?'

  `BVH,' HZRW ZORXV, `R'EV LUGVM HVVM GSVN ZG WRMM--' HSV
XSVXPVW SVIHVOU SZHGROB.

  `R WLM'G PMLD DSVIV WRMM NZB YV,' HZRW GSV NLXP GFIGOV, `YFG
RU BLF'EV HVVM GSVN HL LUGVM, LU XLFIHV BLF PMLD DSZG GSVB'IV
ORPV.'

  `R YVORVEV HL,' ZORXV IVKORVW GSLFTSGUFOOB.  `GSVB SZEV GSVRI
GZROH RM GSVRI NLFGSH--ZMW GSVB'IV ZOO LEVI XIFNYH.'

  `BLF'IV DILMT ZYLFG GSV XIFNYH,' HZRW GSV NLXP GFIGOV:
`XIFNYH DLFOW ZOO DZHS LUU RM GSV HVZ.  YFG GSVB SZEV GSVRI GZROH
RM GSVRI NLFGSH; ZMW GSV IVZHLM RH--' SVIV GSV NLXP GFIGOV
BZDMVW ZMW HSFG SRH VBVH.--`GVOO SVI ZYLFG GSV IVZHLM ZMW ZOO
GSZG,' SV HZRW GL GSV TIBKSLM.

  `GSV IVZHLM RH,' HZRW GSV TIBKSLM, `GSZG GSVB DLFOW TL DRGS
GSV OLYHGVIH GL GSV WZMXV.  HL GSVB TLG GSILDM LFG GL HVZ.  HL
GSVB SZW GL UZOO Z OLMT DZB.  HL GSVB TLG GSVRI GZROH UZHG RM
GSVRI NLFGSH.  HL GSVB XLFOWM'G TVG GSVN LFG ZTZRM.  GSZG'H ZOO.'

  `GSZMP BLF,' HZRW ZORXV, `RG'H EVIB RMGVIVHGRMT.  R MVEVI PMVD
HL NFXS ZYLFG Z DSRGRMT YVULIV.'

  `R XZM GVOO BLF NLIV GSZM GSZG, RU BLF ORPV,' HZRW GSV
TIBKSLM.  `WL BLF PMLD DSB RG'H XZOOVW Z DSRGRMT?'

  `R MVEVI GSLFTSG ZYLFG RG,' HZRW ZORXV.  `DSB?'

  `RG WLVH GSV YLLGH ZMW HSLVH.' GSV TIBKSLM IVKORVW EVIB
HLOVNMOB.

  ZORXV DZH GSLILFTSOB KFAAOVW.  `WLVH GSV YLLGH ZMW HSLVH!' HSV
IVKVZGVW RM Z DLMWVIRMT GLMV.

  `DSB, DSZG ZIV BLFI HSLVH WLMV DRGS?' HZRW GSV TIBKSLM.  `R
NVZM, DSZG NZPVH GSVN HL HSRMB?'

  ZORXV OLLPVW WLDM ZG GSVN, ZMW XLMHRWVIVW Z ORGGOV YVULIV HSV
TZEV SVI ZMHDVI.  `GSVB'IV WLMV DRGS YOZXPRMT, R YVORVEV.'

  `YLLGH ZMW HSLVH FMWVI GSV HVZ,' GSV TIBKSLM DVMG LM RM Z WVVK
ELRXV, `ZIV WLMV DRGS Z DSRGRMT.  MLD BLF PMLD.'

  `ZMW DSZG ZIV GSVB NZWV LU?' ZORXV ZHPVW RM Z GLMV LU TIVZG
XFIRLHRGB.

  `HLOVH ZMW VVOH, LU XLFIHV,' GSV TIBKSLM IVKORVW IZGSVI
RNKZGRVMGOB:  `ZMB HSIRNK XLFOW SZEV GLOW BLF GSZG.'

  `RU R'W YVVM GSV DSRGRMT,' HZRW ZORXV, DSLHV GSLFTSGH DVIV
HGROO IFMMRMT LM GSV HLMT, `R'W SZEV HZRW GL GSV KLIKLRHV, "PVVK
YZXP, KOVZHV:  DV WLM'G DZMG BLF DRGS FH!"'

  `GSVB DVIV LYORTVW GL SZEV SRN DRGS GSVN,' GSV NLXP GFIGOV
HZRW:  `ML DRHV URHS DLFOW TL ZMBDSVIV DRGSLFG Z KLIKLRHV.'

  `DLFOWM'G RG IVZOOB?' HZRW ZORXV RM Z GLMV LU TIVZG HFIKIRHV.

  `LU XLFIHV MLG,' HZRW GSV NLXP GFIGOV:  `DSB, RU Z URHS XZNV
GL NV, ZMW GLOW NV SV DZH TLRMT Z QLFIMVB, R HSLFOW HZB "DRGS
DSZG KLIKLRHV?"'

  `WLM'G BLF NVZM "KFIKLHV"?' HZRW ZORXV.

  `R NVZM DSZG R HZB,' GSV NLXP GFIGOV IVKORVW RM ZM LUUVMWVW
GLMV.  ZMW GSV TIBKSLM ZWWVW `XLNV, OVG'H SVZI HLNV LU BLFI
ZWEVMGFIVH.'
