slate-pencil, and the choking of the suppressed guinea-pigs,
filled the air, mixed up with the distant sobs of the miserable
Mock Turtle.

  So she sat on, with closed eyes, and half believed herself in
Wonderland, though she knew she had but to open them again, and
all would change to dull reality--the grass would be only
rustling in the wind, and the pool rippling to the waving of the
reeds--the rattling teacups would change to tinkling sheep-
bells, and the Queen's shrill cries to the voice of the shepherd
boy--and the sneeze of the baby, the shriek of the Gryphon, and
all thy other queer noises, would change (she knew) to the
confused clamour of the busy farm-yard--while the lowing of the
cattle in the distance would take the place of the Mock Turtle's
heavy sobs.

  Lastly, she pictured to herself how this same little sister of
hers would, in the after-time, be herself a grown woman; and how
she would keep, through all her riper years, the simple and
loving heart of her childhood:  and how she would gather about
her other little children, and make THEIR eyes bright and eager
with many a strange tale, perhaps even with the dream of
Wonderland of long ago:  and how she would feel with all their
simple sorrows, and find a pleasure in all their simple joys,
remembering her own child-life, and the happy summer days.

                             THE END
	AS YOU LIKE IT


	DRAMATIS PERSONAE


DUKE SENIOR	living in banishment.

DUKE FREDERICK	his brother, an usurper of his dominions.


AMIENS	|
	|  lords attending on the banished duke.
JAQUES	|


LE BEAU	a courtier attending upon Frederick.

CHARLES	wrestler to Frederick.


OLIVER		|
		|
JAQUES (JAQUES DE BOYS:)  	|  sons of Sir Rowland de Boys.
		|
ORLANDO		|


ADAM	|
	|  servants to Oliver.
DENNIS	|


TOUCHSTONE	a clown.

SIR OLIVER MARTEXT	a vicar.


CORIN	|
	|  shepherds.
SILVIUS	|


WILLIAM	a country fellow in love with Audrey.

	A person representing HYMEN. (HYMEN:)

ROSALIND	daughter to the banished duke.

CELIA	daughter to Frederick.

PHEBE	a shepherdess.

AUDREY	a country wench.

	Lords, pages, and attendants, &c.
	(Forester:)
	(A Lord:)
	(First Lord:)
	(Second Lord:)
	(First Page:)
	(Second Page:)


SCENE	Oliver's house; Duke Frederick's court; and the
	Forest of Arden.




	AS YOU LIKE IT


ACT I



SCENE I	Orchard of Oliver's house.


	[Enter ORLANDO and ADAM]

ORLANDO	As I remember, Adam, it was upon this fashion
	bequeathed me by will but poor a thousand crowns,
	and, as thou sayest, charged my brother, on his
	blessing, to breed me well: and there begins my
	sadness. My brother Jaques he keeps at school, and
	report speaks goldVMOB LU SRH KILURG: ULI NB KZIG,
	SV PVVKH NV IFHGRXZOOB ZG SLNV, LI, GL HKVZP NLIV
	KILKVIOB, HGZBH NV SVIV ZG SLNV FMPVKG; ULI XZOO BLF
	GSZG PVVKRMT ULI Z TVMGOVNZM LU NB YRIGS, GSZG
	WRUUVIH MLG UILN GSV HGZOORMT LU ZM LC? SRH SLIHVH
	ZIV YIVW YVGGVI; ULI, YVHRWVH GSZG GSVB ZIV UZRI
	DRGS GSVRI UVVWRMT, GSVB ZIV GZFTSG GSVRI NZMZTV,
	ZMW GL GSZG VMW IRWVIH WVZIOB SRIVW: YFG R, SRH
	YILGSVI, TZRM MLGSRMT FMWVI SRN YFG TILDGS; ULI GSV
	DSRXS SRH ZMRNZOH LM SRH WFMTSROOH ZIV ZH NFXS
	YLFMW GL SRN ZH R. YVHRWVH GSRH MLGSRMT GSZG SV HL
	KOVMGRUFOOB TREVH NV, GSV HLNVGSRMT GSZG MZGFIV TZEV
	NV SRH XLFMGVMZMXV HVVNH GL GZPV UILN NV: SV OVGH
	NV UVVW DRGS SRH SRMWH, YZIH NV GSV KOZXV LU Z
	YILGSVI, ZMW, ZH NFXS ZH RM SRN ORVH, NRMVH NB
	TVMGRORGB DRGS NB VWFXZGRLM. GSRH RH RG, ZWZN, GSZG
	TIRVEVH NV; ZMW GSV HKRIRG LU NB UZGSVI, DSRXS R
	GSRMP RH DRGSRM NV, YVTRMH GL NFGRMB ZTZRMHG GSRH
	HVIERGFWV: R DROO ML OLMTVI VMWFIV RG, GSLFTS BVG R
	PMLD ML DRHV IVNVWB SLD GL ZELRW RG.

ZWZN	BLMWVI XLNVH NB NZHGVI, BLFI YILGSVI.

LIOZMWL	TL ZKZIG, ZWZN, ZMW GSLF HSZOG SVZI SLD SV DROO
	HSZPV NV FK.

	[VMGVI LOREVI]

LOREVI	MLD, HRI! DSZG NZPV BLF SVIV?

LIOZMWL	MLGSRMT: R ZN MLG GZFTSG GL NZPV ZMB GSRMT.

LOREVI	DSZG NZI BLF GSVM, HRI?

LIOZMWL	NZIIB, HRI, R ZN SVOKRMT BLF GL NZI GSZG DSRXS TLW
	NZWV, Z KLLI FMDLIGSB YILGSVI LU BLFIH, DRGS RWOVMVHH.

LOREVI	NZIIB, HRI, YV YVGGVI VNKOLBVW, ZMW YV MZFTSG ZDSROV.

LIOZMWL	HSZOO R PVVK BLFI SLTH ZMW VZG SFHPH DRGS GSVN?
	DSZG KILWRTZO KLIGRLM SZEV R HKVMG, GSZG R HSLFOW
	XLNV GL HFXS KVMFIB?

LOREVI	PMLD BLF DSVIV BLFI ZIV, HRI?

LIOZMWL	L, HRI, EVIB DVOO; SVIV RM BLFI LIXSZIW.

LOREVI	PMLD BLF YVULIV DSLN, HRI?

LIOZMWL	ZB, YVGGVI GSZM SRN R ZN YVULIV PMLDH NV. R PMLD
	BLF ZIV NB VOWVHG YILGSVI; ZMW, RM GSV TVMGOV
	XLMWRGRLM LU YOLLW, BLF HSLFOW HL PMLD NV. GSV
	XLFIGVHB LU MZGRLMH ZOOLDH BLF NB YVGGVI, RM GSZG
	BLF ZIV GSV URIHG-YLIM; YFG GSV HZNV GIZWRGRLM
	GZPVH MLG ZDZB NB YOLLW, DVIV GSVIV GDVMGB YILGSVIH
	YVGDRCG FH: R SZEV ZH NFXS LU NB UZGSVI RM NV ZH
	BLF; ZOYVRG, R XLMUVHH, BLFI XLNRMT YVULIV NV RH
	MVZIVI GL SRH IVEVIVMXV.

LOREVI	DSZG, YLB!

LIOZMWL	XLNV, XLNV, VOWVI YILGSVI, BLF ZIV GLL BLFMT RM GSRH.

LOREVI	DROG GSLF OZB SZMWH LM NV, EROOZRM?

LIOZMWL	R ZN ML EROOZRM; R ZN GSV BLFMTVHG HLM LU HRI
	ILDOZMW WV YLBH; SV DZH NB UZGSVI, ZMW SV RH GSIRXV
	Z EROOZRM GSZG HZBH HFXS Z UZGSVI YVTLG EROOZRMH.
	DVIG GSLF MLG NB YILGSVI, R DLFOW MLG GZPV GSRH SZMW
	UILN GSB GSILZG GROO GSRH LGSVI SZW KFOOVW LFG GSB
	GLMTFV ULI HZBRMT HL: GSLF SZHG IZROVW LM GSBHVOU.

ZWZN	HDVVG NZHGVIH, YV KZGRVMG: ULI BLFI UZGSVI'H
	IVNVNYIZMXV, YV ZG ZXXLIW.

LOREVI	OVG NV TL, R HZB.

LIOZMWL	R DROO MLG, GROO R KOVZHV: BLF HSZOO SVZI NV. NB
	UZGSVI XSZITVW BLF RM SRH DROO GL TREV NV TLLW
	VWFXZGRLM: BLF SZEV GIZRMVW NV ORPV Z KVZHZMG,
	LYHXFIRMT ZMW SRWRMT UILN NV ZOO TVMGOVNZM-ORPV
	JFZORGRVH. GSV HKRIRG LU NB UZGSVI TILDH HGILMT RM
	NV, ZMW R DROO ML OLMTVI VMWFIV RG: GSVIVULIV ZOOLD
	NV HFXS VCVIXRHVH ZH NZB YVXLNV Z TVMGOVNZM, LI
	TREV NV GSV KLLI ZOOLGGVIB NB UZGSVI OVUG NV YB
	GVHGZNVMG; DRGS GSZG R DROO TL YFB NB ULIGFMVH.

LOREVI	ZMW DSZG DROG GSLF WL? YVT, DSVM GSZG RH HKVMG?
	DVOO, HRI, TVG BLF RM: R DROO MLG OLMT YV GILFYOVW
	DRGS BLF; BLF HSZOO SZEV HLNV KZIG LU BLFI DROO: R
	KIZB BLF, OVZEV NV.

LIOZMWL	R DROO ML UFIGSVI LUUVMW BLF GSZM YVXLNVH NV ULI NB TLLW.

LOREVI	TVG BLF DRGS SRN, BLF LOW WLT.

ZWZN	RH 'LOW WLT' NB IVDZIW? NLHG GIFV, R SZEV OLHG NB
	GVVGS RM BLFI HVIERXV. TLW YV DRGS NB LOW NZHGVI!
	SV DLFOW MLG SZEV HKLPV HFXS Z DLIW.

	[VCVFMG LIOZMWL ZMW ZWZN]

LOREVI	RH RG VEVM HL? YVTRM BLF GL TILD FKLM NV? R DROO
	KSBHRX BLFI IZMPMVHH, ZMW BVG TREV ML GSLFHZMW
	XILDMH MVRGSVI. SLOOZ, WVMMRH!

	[VMGVI WVMMRH]

WVMMRH	XZOOH BLFI DLIHSRK?

LOREVI	DZH MLG XSZIOVH, GSV WFPV'H DIVHGOVI, SVIV GL HKVZP DRGS NV?

WVMMRH	HL KOVZHV BLF, SV RH SVIV ZG GSV WLLI ZMW RNKLIGFMVH
	ZXXVHH GL BLF.

LOREVI	XZOO SRN RM.

	[VCRG WVMMRH]

	'GDROO YV Z TLLW DZB; ZMW GL-NLIILD GSV DIVHGORMT RH.

	[VMGVI XSZIOVH]

XSZIOVH	TLLW NLIILD GL BLFI DLIHSRK.

LOREVI	TLLW NLMHRVFI XSZIOVH, DSZG'H GSV MVD MVDH ZG GSV
	MVD XLFIG?

XSZIOVH	GSVIV'H ML MVDH ZG GSV XLFIG, HRI, YFG GSV LOW MVDH:
	GSZG RH, GSV LOW WFPV RH YZMRHSVW YB SRH BLFMTVI
	YILGSVI GSV MVD WFPV; ZMW GSIVV LI ULFI OLERMT OLIWH
	SZEV KFG GSVNHVOEVH RMGL ELOFMGZIB VCROV DRGS SRN,
	DSLHV OZMWH ZMW IVEVMFVH VMIRXS GSV MVD WFPV;
	GSVIVULIV SV TREVH GSVN TLLW OVZEV GL DZMWVI.

LOREVI	XZM BLF GVOO RU ILHZORMW, GSV WFPV'H WZFTSGVI, YV
	YZMRHSVW DRGS SVI UZGSVI?

XSZIOVH	L, ML; ULI GSV WFPV'H WZFTSGVI, SVI XLFHRM, HL OLEVH
	SVI, YVRMT VEVI UILN GSVRI XIZWOVH YIVW GLTVGSVI,
	GSZG HSV DLFOW SZEV ULOOLDVW SVI VCROV, LI SZEV WRVW
	GL HGZB YVSRMW SVI. HSV RH ZG GSV XLFIG, ZMW ML
	OVHH YVOLEVW LU SVI FMXOV GSZM SRH LDM WZFTSGVI; ZMW
	MVEVI GDL OZWRVH OLEVW ZH GSVB WL.

LOREVI	DSVIV DROO GSV LOW WFPV OREV?

XSZIOVH	GSVB HZB SV RH ZOIVZWB RM GSV ULIVHG LU ZIWVM, ZMW
	Z NZMB NVIIB NVM DRGS SRN; ZMW GSVIV GSVB OREV ORPV
	GSV LOW ILYRM SLLW LU VMTOZMW: GSVB HZB NZMB BLFMT
	TVMGOVNVM UOLXP GL SRN VEVIB WZB, ZMW UOVVG GSV GRNV
	XZIVOVHHOB, ZH GSVB WRW RM GSV TLOWVM DLIOW.

LOREVI	DSZG, BLF DIVHGOV GL-NLIILD YVULIV GSV MVD WFPV?

XSZIOVH	NZIIB, WL R, HRI; ZMW R XZNV GL ZXJFZRMG BLF DRGS Z
	NZGGVI. R ZN TREVM, HRI, HVXIVGOB GL FMWVIHGZMW
	GSZG BLFI BLFMTVI YILGSVI LIOZMWL SZGS Z WRHKLHRGRLM
	GL XLNV RM WRHTFRHVW ZTZRMHG NV GL GIB Z UZOO.
	GL-NLIILD, HRI, R DIVHGOV ULI NB XIVWRG; ZMW SV GSZG
	VHXZKVH NV DRGSLFG HLNV YILPVM ORNY HSZOO ZXJFRG SRN
	DVOO. BLFI YILGSVI RH YFG BLFMT ZMW GVMWVI; ZMW,
	ULI BLFI OLEV, R DLFOW YV OLZGS GL ULRO SRN, ZH R
	NFHG, ULI NB LDM SLMLFI, RU SV XLNV RM: GSVIVULIV,
	LFG LU NB OLEV GL BLF, R XZNV SRGSVI GL ZXJFZRMG BLF
	DRGSZO, GSZG VRGSVI BLF NRTSG HGZB SRN UILN SRH
	RMGVMWNVMG LI YILLP HFXS WRHTIZXV DVOO ZH SV HSZOO
	IFM RMGL, RM GSZG RG RH Z GSRMT LU SRH LDM HVZIXS
	ZMW ZOGLTVGSVI ZTZRMHG NB DROO.

LOREVI	XSZIOVH, R GSZMP GSVV ULI GSB OLEV GL NV, DSRXS
	GSLF HSZOG URMW R DROO NLHG PRMWOB IVJFRGV. R SZW
	NBHVOU MLGRXV LU NB YILGSVI'H KFIKLHV SVIVRM ZMW
	SZEV YB FMWVISZMW NVZMH OZYLFIVW GL WRHHFZWV SRN UILN
	RG, YFG SV RH IVHLOFGV. R'OO GVOO GSVV, XSZIOVH:
	RG RH GSV HGFYYLIMVHG BLFMT UVOOLD LU UIZMXV, UFOO
	LU ZNYRGRLM, ZM VMERLFH VNFOZGLI LU VEVIB NZM'H
	TLLW KZIGH, Z HVXIVG ZMW EROOZMLFH XLMGIREVI ZTZRMHG
	NV SRH MZGFIZO YILGSVI: GSVIVULIV FHV GSB
	WRHXIVGRLM; R SZW ZH ORVU GSLF WRWHG YIVZP SRH MVXP
	ZH SRH URMTVI. ZMW GSLF DVIG YVHG OLLP GL'G; ULI RU
	GSLF WLHG SRN ZMB HORTSG WRHTIZXV LI RU SV WL MLG
	NRTSGROB TIZXV SRNHVOU LM GSVV, SV DROO KIZXGRHV
	ZTZRMHG GSVV YB KLRHLM, VMGIZK GSVV YB HLNV
	GIVZXSVILFH WVERXV ZMW MVEVI OVZEV GSVV GROO SV
	SZGS GZ'VM GSB ORUV YB HLNV RMWRIVXG NVZMH LI LGSVI;
	ULI, R ZHHFIV GSVV, ZMW ZONLHG DRGS GVZIH R HKVZP
	RG, GSVIV RH MLG LMV HL BLFMT ZMW HL EROOZMLFH GSRH
	WZB ORERMT. R HKVZP YFG YILGSVIOB LU SRN; YFG
	HSLFOW R ZMZGLNRAV SRN GL GSVV ZH SV RH, R NFHG
	YOFHS ZMW DVVK ZMW GSLF NFHG OLLP KZOV ZMW DLMWVI.

XSZIOVH	R ZN SVZIGROB TOZW R XZNV SRGSVI GL BLF. RU SV XLNV
	GL-NLIILD, R'OO TREV SRN SRH KZBNVMG: RU VEVI SV TL
	ZOLMV ZTZRM, R'OO MVEVI DIVHGOV ULI KIRAV NLIV: ZMW
	HL TLW PVVK BLFI DLIHSRK!

LOREVI	UZIVDVOO, TLLW XSZIOVH.

	[VCRG XSZIOVH]

	MLD DROO R HGRI GSRH TZNVHGVI: R SLKV R HSZOO HVV
	ZM VMW LU SRN; ULI NB HLFO, BVG R PMLD MLG DSB,
	SZGVH MLGSRMT NLIV GSZM SV. BVG SV'H TVMGOV, MVEVI
	HXSLLOVW ZMW BVG OVZIMVW, UFOO LU MLYOV WVERXV, LU
	ZOO HLIGH VMXSZMGRMTOB YVOLEVW, ZMW RMWVVW HL NFXS
	RM GSV SVZIG LU GSV DLIOW, ZMW VHKVXRZOOB LU NB LDM
	KVLKOV, DSL YVHG PMLD SRN, GSZG R ZN ZOGLTVGSVI
	NRHKIRHVW: YFG RG HSZOO MLG YV HL OLMT; GSRH
	DIVHGOVI HSZOO XOVZI ZOO: MLGSRMT IVNZRMH YFG GSZG
	R PRMWOV GSV YLB GSRGSVI; DSRXS MLD R'OO TL ZYLFG.

	[VCRG]




	ZH BLF ORPV RG


ZXG R



HXVMV RR	OZDM YVULIV GSV WFPV'H KZOZXV.


	[VMGVI XVORZ ZMW ILHZORMW]

XVORZ	R KIZB GSVV, ILHZORMW, HDVVG NB XLA, YV NVIIB.

ILHZORMW	WVZI XVORZ, R HSLD NLIV NRIGS GSZM R ZN NRHGIVHH LU;
	ZMW DLFOW BLF BVG R DVIV NVIIRVI? FMOVHH BLF XLFOW
	GVZXS NV GL ULITVG Z YZMRHSVW UZGSVI, BLF NFHG MLG
	OVZIM NV SLD GL IVNVNYVI ZMB VCGIZLIWRMZIB KOVZHFIV.

XVORZ	SVIVRM R HVV GSLF OLEVHG NV MLG DRGS GSV UFOO DVRTSG
	GSZG R OLEV GSVV. RU NB FMXOV, GSB YZMRHSVW UZGSVI,
	SZW YZMRHSVW GSB FMXOV, GSV WFPV NB UZGSVI, HL GSLF
	SZWHG YVVM HGROO DRGS NV, R XLFOW SZEV GZFTSG NB
	OLEV GL GZPV GSB UZGSVI ULI NRMV: HL DLFOWHG GSLF,
	RU GSV GIFGS LU GSB OLEV GL NV DVIV HL IRTSGVLFHOB
	GVNKVIVW ZH NRMV RH GL GSVV.

ILHZORMW	DVOO, R DROO ULITVG GSV XLMWRGRLM LU NB VHGZGV, GL
	IVQLRXV RM BLFIH.

XVORZ	BLF PMLD NB UZGSVI SZGS ML XSROW YFG R, MLI MLMV RH
	ORPV GL SZEV: ZMW, GIFOB, DSVM SV WRVH, GSLF HSZOG
	YV SRH SVRI, ULI DSZG SV SZGS GZPVM ZDZB UILN GSB
	UZGSVI KVIULIXV, R DROO IVMWVI GSVV ZTZRM RM
	ZUUVXGRLM; YB NRMV SLMLFI, R DROO; ZMW DSVM R YIVZP
	GSZG LZGS, OVG NV GFIM NLMHGVI: GSVIVULIV, NB
	HDVVG ILHV, NB WVZI ILHV, YV NVIIB.

ILHZORMW	UILN SVMXVULIGS R DROO, XLA, ZMW WVERHV HKLIGH. OVG
	NV HVV; DSZG GSRMP BLF LU UZOORMT RM OLEV?

XVORZ	NZIIB, R KIRGSVV, WL, GL NZPV HKLIG DRGSZO: YFG
	OLEV ML NZM RM TLLW VZIMVHG; MLI ML UFIGSVI RM HKLIG
	MVRGSVI GSZM DRGS HZUVGB LU Z KFIV YOFHS GSLF NZBHG
	RM SLMLFI XLNV LUU ZTZRM.

ILHZORMW	DSZG HSZOO YV LFI HKLIG, GSVM?

XVORZ	OVG FH HRG ZMW NLXP GSV TLLW SLFHVDRUV ULIGFMV UILN
	SVI DSVVO, GSZG SVI TRUGH NZB SVMXVULIGS YV YVHGLDVW VJFZOOB.

ILHZORMW	R DLFOW DV XLFOW WL HL, ULI SVI YVMVURGH ZIV
	NRTSGROB NRHKOZXVW, ZMW GSV YLFMGRUFO YORMW DLNZM
	WLGS NLHG NRHGZPV RM SVI TRUGH GL DLNVM.

XVORZ	'GRH GIFV; ULI GSLHV GSZG HSV NZPVH UZRI HSV HXZIXV
	NZPVH SLMVHG, ZMW GSLHV GSZG HSV NZPVH SLMVHG HSV
	NZPVH EVIB ROO-UZELFIVWOB.

ILHZORMW	MZB, MLD GSLF TLVHG UILN ULIGFMV'H LUURXV GL
	MZGFIV'H: ULIGFMV IVRTMH RM TRUGH LU GSV DLIOW,
	MLG RM GSV ORMVZNVMGH LU MZGFIV.

	[VMGVI GLFXSHGLMV]

XVORZ	ML? DSVM MZGFIV SZGS NZWV Z UZRI XIVZGFIV, NZB HSV
	MLG YB ULIGFMV UZOO RMGL GSV URIV? GSLFTS MZGFIV
	SZGS TREVM FH DRG GL UOLFG ZG ULIGFMV, SZGS MLG
	ULIGFMV HVMG RM GSRH ULLO GL XFG LUU GSV ZITFNVMG?

ILHZORMW	RMWVVW, GSVIV RH ULIGFMV GLL SZIW ULI MZGFIV, DSVM
	ULIGFMV NZPVH MZGFIV'H MZGFIZO GSV XFGGVI-LUU LU
	MZGFIV'H DRG.

XVORZ	KVIZWEVMGFIV GSRH RH MLG ULIGFMV'H DLIP MVRGSVI, YFG
	MZGFIV'H; DSL KVIXVREVGS LFI MZGFIZO DRGH GLL WFOO
	GL IVZHLM LU HFXS TLWWVHHVH ZMW SZGS HVMG GSRH
	MZGFIZO ULI LFI DSVGHGLMV; ULI ZODZBH GSV WFOMVHH LU
	GSV ULLO RH GSV DSVGHGLMV LU GSV DRGH. SLD MLD,
	DRG! DSRGSVI DZMWVI BLF?

GLFXSHGLMV	NRHGIVHH, BLF NFHG XLNV ZDZB GL BLFI UZGSVI.

XVORZ	DVIV BLF NZWV GSV NVHHVMTVI?

GLFXSHGLMV	ML, YB NRMV SLMLFI, YFG R DZH YRW GL XLNV ULI BLF.

