systems on the market.  The costs of equipment are being amortized over
five years but are still quite high, nearly $2,000 per month.

HOCKEY raised a general question concerning OCR and the amount of editing
required (substantial in her experience) to generate the kind of
structured markup necessary for manipulating the text on the computer or
loading it into any retrieval system.  She wondered if the speakers could
extend the previous question about the cost-benefit of adding or exerting
structured markup.  ERWAY noted that several OCR systems retain italics,
bolding, and other spatial formatting.  While the material may not be in
the format desired, these systems possess the ability to remove the
original materials quickly from the hands of the people performing the
conversion, as well as to retain that information so that users can work
with it.  HOCKEY rejoined that the current thinking on markup is that one
should not say that something is italic or bold so much as why it is that
way.  To be sure, one needs to know that something was italicized, but
how can one get from one to the other?  One can map from the structure to
the typographic representation.

FLEISCHHAUER suggVHGVW GSZG, TREVM GSV 100 NROORLM RGVNH GSV ORYIZIB
SLOWH, RG NZB MLG YV KLHHRYOV ULI OX GL WL NLIV GSZM IVKLIG GSZG Z GSRMT
DZH RM RGZORXH ZH LKKLHVW GL DSB RG DZH RGZORXH, ZOGSLFTS GSZG NZB YV
WVHRIZYOV RM HLNV XLMGVCGH.  KILNRHRMT GL GZOP Z YRG WFIRMT GSV ZUGVIMLLM
HVHHRLM ZYLFG HVEVIZO VCKVIRNVMGH LXOX KVIULINVW LM ZFGLNZGRX IVXLTMRGRLM
LU WLXFNVMG VOVNVMGH, ZMW DSRXS GSVB SLKVW GL VCGVMW, DVRYVO HZRW GSZG RM
UZXG LMV XZM IVXLTMRAV GSV NZQLI VOVNVMGH LU Z WLXFNVMG DRGS Z UZRIOB
SRTS WVTIVV LU IVORZYRORGB, ZG OVZHG ZH TLLW ZH LXI.  HGVEVMH WIVD Z
FHVUFO WRHGRMXGRLM YVGDVVM HGZMWZIW, TVMVIZORAVW NZIPFK (R.V., WVURMRMT
ULI Z WLXFNVMG-GBKV WVURMRGRLM GSV HGIFXGFIV LU GSV WLXFNVMG), ZMW DSZG
SV GVINVW Z HGBOV HSVVG, DSRXS SZW GL WL DRGS RGZORXH, YLOWRMT, ZMW LGSVI
ULINH LU VNKSZHRH.  GSFH, GDL WRUUVIVMG XLNKLMVMGH ZIV ZG DLIP, LMV YVRMT
GSV HGIFXGFIV LU GSV WLXFNVMG RGHVOU (RGH OLTRX), ZMW GSV LGSVI YVRMT RGH
IVKIVHVMGZGRLM DSVM RG RH KFG LM GSV HXIVVM LI KIRMGVW.

