interest in images tends to focus on corollary materials for use in teaching,
for example, photographs of the Acropolis to accompany a Greek text.

By the end of the Workshop, SPERBERG-McQUEEN confessed to having been
converted to a limited extent to the view that electronic images
constitute a promising alternative to microfilming; indeed, an
alternative probably superior to microfilming.  But he was not convinced
that electronic images constitute a serious attempt to represent text in
electronic form.  HOCKEY and MYLONAS also conceded that their experience
at the Pierce Symposium the previous week at Georgetown University and
the present conference at the Library of Congress had compelled them to
reevaluate their perspective on the usefulness of text as images.
Attendees could see that the text and image advocates were in
constructive tension, so to say.

Three nonTEI presentations described approaches to preparing
machine-readable text that are less rigorous and thus less expensive.  In
the case of the Papers of George Washington, Dorothy TWOHIG explained
that the digital version will provide a not-quite-perfect rendering of
the transcribed text--some 135,000 documents, available for research
during the decades while the perfect or print version is completed.
Members of the American Memory team and the staff of NAL's Text
Digitization Program (see below) also outlined a middle ground concerning
searchable texts.  In the case of American Memory, contractors produce
texts with about 99-percent accuracy that serve as "browse" or
"reference" versions of written or printed originals.  End users who need
faithful copies or perfect renditions must refer to accompanying sets of
digital facsimile images or consult copies of the originals in a nearby
library or archive.  American Memory staff argued that the high cost of
producing 100-percent accurate copies would prevent LC from offering
access to large parts of its collections.


THE MACHINE-READABLE TEXT:  METHODS OF CONVERSION

Although the Workshop did not include a systematic examination of the
methods for converting texts from paper (or from facsimile images) into
machine-readable form, nevertheless, various speakers touched upon this
matter.  For example, WEIBEL reported that OCLC has experimented with a
merging of multiple optical character recognition systems that will
reduce errors from an unacceptable rate of 5 characters out of every
l,000 to an unacceptable rate of 2 characters out of every l,000.

Pamela ANDRE presented an overview of NAL's Text Digitization Program and
Judith ZIDAR discussed the technical details.  ZIDAR explained how NAL
purchased hardware and software capable of performing optical character
recognition (OCR) and text conversion and used its own staff to convert
texts.  The process, ZIDAR said, required extensive editing and project
staff found themselves considering alternatives, including rekeying
and/or creating abstracts or summaries of texts.  NAL reckoned costs at
$7 per page.  By way of contrast, Ricky ERWAY explained that American
Memory had decided from the start to contract out conversion to external
service bureaus.  The criteria used to select these contractors were cost
and quality of results, as opposed to methods of conversion.  ERWAY noted
that historical documents or books often do not lend themselves to OCR.
Bound materials represent a special problem.  In her experience, quality
control--inspecting incoming materials, counting errors in samples--posed
the most time-consuming aspect of contracting out conversion.  ERWAY
reckoned American Memory's costs at $4 per page, but cautioned that fewer
cost-elements had been included than in NAL's figure.


OPTIONS FOR DISSEMINATION

The topic of dissemination proper emerged at various points during the
Workshop.  At the session devoted to national and international computer
networks, LYNCH, Howard BESSER, Ronald LARSEN, and Edwin BROWNRIGG
highlighted the virtues of Internet today and of the network that will
evolve from Internet.  Listeners could discern in these narratives a
vision of an information democracy in which millions of citizens freely
find and use what they need.  LYNCH noted that a lack of standards
inhibits disseminating multimedia on the network, a topic also discussed
by BESSER.  LARSEN addressed the issues of network scalability and
modularity and commented upon the difficulty of anticipating the effects
of growth in orders of magnitude.  BROWNRIGG talked about the ability of
packet radio to provide certain links in a network without the need for
wiring.  However, the presenters also called attention to the
shortcomings and incongruities of present-day computer networks.  For
example:  1) Network use is growing dramatically, but much network
traffic consists of personal communication (E-mail).  2) Large bodies of
information are available, but a user's ability to search across their
entirety is limited.  3) There are significant resources for science and
technology, but few network sources provide content in the humanities.
4) Machine-readable texts are commonplace, but the capability of the
system to deal with images (let alone other media formats) lags behind.
A glimpse of a multimedia future for networks, however, was provided by
Maria LEBRON in her overview of the Online Journal of Current Clinical
Trials (OJCCT), and the process of scholarly publishing on-line.

The contrasting form of the CD-ROM disk was never systematically
analyzed, but attendees could glean an impression from several of the
show-and-tell presentations.  The Perseus and American Memory examples
demonstrated recently published disks, while the descriptions of the
IBYCUS version of the Papers of George Washington and Chadwyck-Healey's
Patrologia Latina Database (PLD) told of disks to come.  According to
Eric CALALUCA, PLD's principal focus has been on converting Jacques-Paul
Migne's definitive collection of Latin texts to machine-readable form.
Although everyone could share the network advocates' enthusiasm for an
on-line future, the possibility of rolling up one's sleeves for a session
with a CD-ROM containing both textual materials and a powerful retrieval
engine made the disk seem an appealing vessel indeed.  The overall
discussion suggested that the transition from CD-ROM to on-line networked
access may prove far slower and more difficult than has been anticipated.


WHO ARE THE USERS AND WHAT DO THEY DO?

Although concerned with the technicalities of production, the Workshop
never lost sight of the purposes and uses of electronic versions of
textual materials.  As noted above, those interested in imaging discussed
the problematical matter of digital preservation, while the TEI proponents
described how machine-readable texts can be used in research.  This latter
topic received thorough treatment in the paper read by Avra MICHELSON.
She placed the phenomenon of electronic texts within the context of
broader trends in information technology and scholarly communication.

Among other things, MICHELSON described on-line conferences that
represent a vigorous and important intellectual forum for certain
disciplines.  Internet now carries more than 700 conferences, with about
80 percent of these devoted to topics in the social sciences and the
humanities.  Other scholars use on-line networks for "distance learning."
Meanwhile, there has been a tremendous growth in end-user computing;
professors today are less likely than their predecessors to ask the
campus computer center to process their data.  Electronic texts are one
key to these sophisticated applications, MICHELSON reported, and more and
more scholars in the humanities now work in an on-line environment.
Toward the end of the Workshop, Michael LESK presented a corollary to
MICHELSON's talk, reporting the results of an experiment that compared
the work of one group of chemistry students using traditional printed
texts and two groups using electronic sources.  The experiment
demonstrated that in the event one does not know what to read, one needs
the electronic systems; the electronic systems hold no advantage at the
moment if one knows what to read, but neither do they impose a penalty.

DALY provided an anecdotal account of the revolutionizing impact of the
new technology on his previous methods of research in the field of classics.
His account, by extrapolation, served to illustrate in part the arguments
made by MICHELSON concerning the positive effects of the sudden and radical
transformation being wrought in the ways scholars work.

Susan VECCIA and Joanne FREEMAN delineated the use of electronic
materials outside the university.  The most interesting aspect of their
use, FREEMAN said, could be seen as a paradox:  teachers in elementary
and secondary schools requested access to primary source materials but,
at the same time, found that "primariness" itself made these materials
difficult for their students to use.


OTHER TOPICS

Marybeth PETERS reviewed copyright law in the United States and offered
advice during a lively discussion of this subject.  But uncertainty
remains concerning the price of copyright in a digital medium, because a
solution remains to be worked out concerning management and synthesis of
copyrighted and out-of-copyright pieces of a database.

As moderator of the final session of the Workshop, Prosser GIFFORD directed
discussion to future courses of action and the potential role of LC in
advancing them.  Among the recommendations that emerged were the following:

     * Workshop participants should 1) begin to think about working
     with image material, but structure and digitize it in such a
     way that at a later stage it can be interpreted into text, and
     2) find a common way to build text and images together so that
     they can be used jointly at some stage in the future, with
     appropriate network support, because that is how users will want
     to access these materials.  The Library might encourage attempts
     to bring together people who are working on texts and images.

     * A network version of American Memory should be developed or
     consideration should be given to making the data in it
     available to people interested in doing network multimedia.
     Given the current dearth of digital data that is appealing and
     unencumbered by extremely complex rights problems, developing a
     network version of American Memory could do much to help make
     network multimedia a reality.

     * Concerning the thorny issue of electronic deposit, LC should
     initiate a catalytic process in terms of distributed
     responsibility, that is, bring together the distributed
     organizations and set up a study group to look at all the
     issues related to electronic deposit and see where we as a
     nation should move.  For example, LC might attempt to persuade
     one major library in each state to deal with its state
     equivalent publisher, which might produce a cooperative project
     that would be equitably distributed around the country, and one
     in which LC would be dealing with a minimal number of publishers
     and minimal copyright problems.  LC must also deal with the
     concept of on-line publishing, determining, among other things,
     how serials such as OJCCT might be deposited for copyright.

     * Since a number of projects are planning to carry out
     preservation by creating digital images that will end up in
     on-line or near-line storage at some institution, LC might play
     a helpful role, at least in the near term, by accelerating how
     to catalog that information into the Research Library Information
     Network (RLIN) and then into OCLC, so that it would be accessible.
     This would reduce the possibility of multiple institutions digitizing
     the same work.


CONCLUSION

The Workshop was valuable because it brought together partisans from
various groups and provided an occasion to compare goals and methods.
The more committed partisans frequently communicate with others in their
groups, but less often across group boundaries.  The Workshop was also
valuable to attendees--including those involved with American Memory--who
came less committed to particular approaches or concepts.  These
attendees learned a great deal, and plan to select and employ elements of
imaging, text-coding, and networked distribution that suit their
respective projects and purposes.

Still, reality rears its ugly head:  no breakthrough has been achieved.
On the imaging side, one confronts a proliferation of competing
data-interchange standards and a lack of consensus on the role of digital
facsimiles in preservation.  In the realm of machine-readable texts, one
encounters a reasonably mature standard but methodological difficulties
and high costs.  These latter problems, of course, represent a special
impediment to the desire, as it is sometimes expressed in the popular
press, "to put the [contents of the] Library of Congress on line."  In
the words of one participant, there was "no solution to the economic
problems--the projects that are out there are surviving, but it is going
to be a lot of work to transform the information industry, and so far the
investment to do that is not forthcoming" (LESK, per litteras).


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                               PROCEEDINGS


WELCOME

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
GIFFORD * Origin of Workshop in current Librarian's desire to make LC's
collections more widely available * Desiderata arising from the prospect
of greater interconnectedness *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

After welcoming participants on behalf of the Library of Congress,
American Memory (AM), and the National Demonstration Lab, Prosser
GIFFORD, director for scholarly programs, Library of Congress, located
the origin of the Workshop on Electronic Texts in a conversation he had
had considerably more than a year ago with Carl FLEISCHHAUER concerning
some of the issues faced by AM.  On the assumption that numerous other
people were asking the same questions, the decision was made to bring
together as many of these people as possible to ask the same questions
together.  In a deeper sense, GIFFORD said, the origin of the Workshop
lay in the desire of the current Librarian of Congress, James H.
Billington, to make the collections of the Library, especially those
offering unique or unusual testimony on aspects of the American
experience, available to a much wider circle of users than those few
people who can come to Washington to use them.  This meant that the
emphasis of AM, from the outset, has been on archival collections of the
basic material, and on making these collections themselves available,
rather than selected or heavily edited products.

From AM's emphasis followed the questions with which the Workshop began:
who will use these materials, and in what form will they wish to use
them.  But an even larger issue deserving mention, in GIFFORD's view, was
the phenomenal growth in Internet connectivity.  He expressed the hope
that the prospect of greater interconnectedness than ever before would
lead to:  1) much more cooperative and mutually supportive endeavors; 2)
development of systems of shared and distributed responsibilities to
avoid duplication and to ensure accuracy and preservation of unique
materials; and 3) agreement on the necessary standards and development of
the appropriate directories and indices to make navigation
straightforward among the varied resources that are, and increasingly
will be, available.  In this connection, GIFFORD requested that
participants reflect from the outset upon the sorts of outcomes they
thought the Workshop might have.  Did those present constitute a group
with sufficient common interests to propose a next step or next steps,
and if so, what might those be?  They would return to these questions the
following afternoon.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
FLEISCHHAUER * Core of Workshop concerns preparation and production of
materials * Special challenge in conversion of textual materials *
Quality versus quantity * Do the several groups represented share common
interests? *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Carl FLEISCHHAUER, coordinator, American Memory, Library of Congress,
emphasized that he would attempt to represent the people who perform some
of the work of converting or preparing  materials and that the core of
the Workshop had to do with preparation and production.  FLEISCHHAUER
then drew a distinction between the long term, when many things would be
available and connected in the ways that GIFFORD described, and the short
term, in which AM not only has wrestled with the issue of what is the
best course to pursue but also has faced a variety of technical
challenges.

FLEISCHHAUER remarked AM's endeavors to deal with a wide range of library
formats, such as motion picture collections, sound-recording collections,
and pictorial collections of various sorts, especially collections of
photographs.  In the course of these efforts, AM kept coming back to
textual materials--manuscripts or rare printed matter, bound materials,
etc.  Text posed the greatest conversion challenge of all.  Thus, the
genesis of the Workshop, which reflects the problems faced by AM.  These
problems include physical problems.  For example, those in the library
and archive business deal with collections made up of fragile and rare
manuscript items, bound materials, especially the notoriously brittle
bound materials of the late nineteenth century.  These are precious
cultural artifacts, however, as well as interesting sources of
information, and LC desires to retain and conserve them.  AM needs to
handle things without damaging them.  Guillotining a book to run it
through a sheet feeder must be avoided at all costs.

Beyond physical problems, issues pertaining to quality arose.  For
example, the desire to provide users with a searchable text is affected
by the question of acceptable level of accuracy.  One hundred percent
accuracy is tremendously expensive.  On the other hand, the output of
optical character recognition (OCR) can be tremendously inaccurate.
Although AM has attempted to find a middle ground, uncertainty persists
as to whether or not it has discovered the right solution.

Questions of quality arose concerning images as well.  FLEISCHHAUER
contrasted the extremely high level of quality of the digital images in
the Cornell Xerox Project with AM's efforts to provide a browse-quality
or access-quality image, as opposed to an archival or preservation image.
FLEISCHHAUER therefore welcomed the opportunity to compare notes.

FLEISCHHAUER observed in passing that conversations he had had about
networks have begun to signal that for various forms of media a
determination may be made that there is a browse-quality item, or a
distribution-and-access-quality item that may coexist in some systems
with a higher quality archival item that would be inconvenient to send
through the network because of its size.  FLEISCHHAUER referred, of
course, to images more than to searchable text.

As AM considered those questions, several conceptual issues arose:  ought
AM occasionally to reproduce materials entirely through an image set, at
other times, entirely through a text set, and in some cases, a mix?
There probably would be times when the historical authenticity of an
artifact would require that its image be used.  An image might be
desirable as a recourse for users if one could not provide 100-percent
accurate text.  Again, AM wondered, as a practical matter, if a
distinction could be drawn between rare printed matter that might exist
in multiple collections--that is, in ten or fifteen libraries.  In such
cases, the need for perfect reproduction would be less than for unique
items.  Implicit in his remarks, FLEISCHHAUER conceded, was the admission
that AM has been tilting strongly towards quantity and drawing back a
little from perfect quality.  That is, it seemed to AM that society would
be better served if more things were distributed by LC--even if they were
not quite perfect--than if fewer things, perfectly represented, were
distributed.  This was stated as a proposition to be tested, with
responses to be gathered from users.

In GSRMPRMT ZYLFG RHHFVH IVOZGVW GL IVKILWFXGRLM LU NZGVIRZOH ZMW HVVRMT
LGSVI KVLKOV VMTZTVW RM KZIZOOVO ZXGRERGRVH, ZN WVVNVW RG FHVUFO GL
XLMEVMV Z XLMUVIVMXV.  SVMXV, GSV DLIPHSLK.  UOVRHXSSZFVI GSVIVFKLM
HFIEVBVW GSV HVEVIZO TILFKH IVKIVHVMGVW:  1) GSV DLIOW LU RNZTVH (RNZTV
FHVIH ZMW RNZTV NZPVIH); 2) GSV DLIOW LU GVCG ZMW HXSLOZIHSRK ZMW, DRGSRM
GSRH TILFK, GSLHV XLMXVIMVW DRGS OZMTFZTV--UOVRHXSSZFVI XLMUVHHVW GL URMWRMT
WVORTSGUFO RILMB RM GSV UZXG GSZG HLNV LU GSV NLHG ZWEZMXVW GSRMPVIH LM
XLNKFGVIRAVW GVCGH ZIV GSLHV WVZORMT DRGS ZMXRVMG TIVVP ZMW ILNZM NZGVIRZOH;
3) GSV MVGDLIP DLIOW; ZMW 4) GSV TVMVIZO DLIOW LU ORYIZIB HXRVMXV, DSRXS
RMXOFWVH KVLKOV RMGVIVHGVW RM KIVHVIEZGRLM ZMW XZGZOLTRMT.

UOVRHXSSZFVI XLMXOFWVW SRH IVNZIPH DRGS HKVXRZO GSZMPH GL GSV WZERW ZMW
OFXROV KZXPZIW ULFMWZGRLM ULI RGH HFKKLIG LU GSV NVVGRMT, GSV ZNVIRXZM
NVNLIB TILFK, GSV LUURXV ULI HXSLOZIOB KILTIZNH, GSV MZGRLMZO
WVNLMHGIZGRLM OZY, ZMW GSV LUURXV LU HKVXRZO VEVMGH.  SV VCKIVHHVW GSV
SLKV GSZG WZERW DLLWOVB KZXPZIW NRTSG YV ZYOV GL ZGGVMW, MLGRMT GSZG
KZXPZIW'H DLIP ZMW GSV DLIP LU GSV ULFMWZGRLM SZW HKLMHLIVW Z MFNYVI LU
KILQVXGH RM GSV GVCG ZIVZ.

                                 ******

HVHHRLM R.  XLMGVMG RM Z MVD ULIN:   DSL DROO FHV RG ZMW DSZG DROO GSVB WL?

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
WZOB * ZXPMLDOVWTVNVMGH * Z MVD OZGRM ZFGSLIH WRHP *  VUUVXGH LU GSV MVD
GVXSMLOLTB LM KIVERLFH NVGSLWH LU IVHVZIXS *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

HVIERMT ZH NLWVIZGLI, QZNVH WZOB ZXPMLDOVWTVW GSV TVMVILHRGB LU ZOO GSV
KIVHVMGVIH ULI TRERMT LU GSVRI GRNV, XLFMHVO, ZMW KZGRVMXV RM KOZMMRMT
GSV DLIPHSLK, ZH DVOO ZH LU NVNYVIH LU GSV ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB KILQVXG ZMW
LGSVI ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH HGZUU, ZMW GSV WZERW ZMW OFXROV KZXPZIW
ULFMWZGRLM ZMW RGH VCVXFGREV WRIVXGLI, XLOYFIM H. DROYFI.

WZOB GSVM IVXLFMGVW SRH ERHRG RM NZIXS GL GSV XVMGVI ULI VOVXGILMRX GVCGH
RM GSV SFNZMRGRVH (XVGS) ZMW GSV WVKZIGNVMG LU XOZHHRXH ZG IFGTVIH
FMREVIHRGB, DSVIV ZM LOW UIRVMW, OLDVOO VWNFMWH, RMGILWFXVW SRN GL GSV
WVKZIGNVMG'H RYBXFH HXSLOZIOB KVIHLMZO XLNKFGVI, ZMW, RM KZIGRXFOZI, GSV
MVD OZGRM XW-ILN, XLMGZRMRMT, ZNLMT LGSVI GSRMTH, ZONLHG ZOO XOZHHRXZO
OZGRM ORGVIZIB GVCGH GSILFTS Z.W. 200.  KZXPZIW SFNZMRGRVH RMHGRGFGV
(KSR), OLH ZOGLH, XZORULIMRZ, IVOVZHVW GSRH WRHP OZGV RM 1991, DRGS Z
MLNRMZO GIRVMMRZO ORXVMHRMT UVV.

KOZBRMT DRGS GSV WRHP ULI ZM SLFI LI HL ZG IFGTVIH YILFTSG SLNV GL WZOB
ZG LMXV GSV IVELOFGRLMRARMT RNKZXG LU GSV MVD GVXSMLOLTB LM SRH KIVERLFH
NVGSLWH LU IVHVZIXS.  SZW GSRH WRHP YVVM ZEZROZYOV GDL LI GSIVV BVZIH
VZIORVI, WZOB XLMGVMWVW, DSVM SV DZH VMTZTVW RM KIVKZIRMT Z XLNNVMGZIB LM
YLLP 10 LU ERITRO'H ZVMVRW ULI XZNYIRWTV FMREVIHRGB KIVHH, SV DLFOW MLG
SZEV IVJFRIVW Z ULIGB-VRTSG-HJFZIV-ULLG GZYOV LM DSRXS GL HKIVZW GSV
MFNVILFH, NLHG UIVJFVMGOB XLMHFOGVW RGVNH, RMXOFWRMT HLNV GVM LI GDVOEV
XLMXLIWZMXVH GL PVB OZGRM ZFGSLIH, ZM ZONLHG VJFZO MFNYVI LU OVCRXZ GL
ZFGSLIH DSL OZXPVW XLMXLIWZMXVH, ZMW DSVIV VRGSVI OVCRXZ LI XLMXLIWZMXVH
DVIV OZXPRMT, MFNVILFH VWRGRLMH LU ZFGSLIH ZMGVWZGRMT ZMW KLHGWZGRMT ERITRO.

MLI, DSVM XSVXPRMT VZXS LU GSV ZEVIZTV HRC GL HVEVM DLIWH XLMGZRMVW RM
GSV ERITRORZM SVCZNVGVI ULI RGH FHZTV VOHVDSVIV RM ERITRO'H DLIPH LI
LGSVI OZGRM ZFGSLIH, DLFOW WZOB SZEV SZW GL NZRMGZRM GSV OZYLIRLFH
NVXSZMRXZO KILXVHH LU UORKKRMT GSILFTS GSVHV XLMXLIWZMXVH, OVCRXZ, ZMW
VWRGRLMH VZXS GRNV.  MLI DLFOW SV SZEV SZW GL UIVJFVMG ZH LUGVM GSV
NROGLM H. VRHVMSLDVI ORYIZIB ZG GSV QLSMH SLKPRMH FMREVIHRGB GL XLMHFOG
GSV GSVHZFIFH ORMTFZV OZGRMZV.  RMHGVZW LU WVELGRMT XLFMGOVHH SLFIH, LI
GSV YFOP LU SRH IVHVZIXS GRNV, GL TZGSVIRMT WZGZ XLMXVIMRMT ERITRO'H FHV
LU DLIWH, WZOB--MLD UIVVW YB KSR'H OZGRM ZFGSLIH WRHP UILN GSV
GBIZMMRXZO, BVG RM HLNV DZBH KZIZWLCRXZOOB SZKKB HXSLOZIOB WIFWTVIB--
DLFOW SZEV YVVM ZYOV GL WVELGV GSZG HZNV YFOP LU GRNV GL ZMZOBARMT ZMW
RMGVIKIVGRMT ERITRORZM EVIYZO FHZTV.

XRGRMT GSVLWLIV YIFMMVI, TIVTLIB XIZMV, VOOR NBOLMZH, ZMW ZEIZ NRXSVOHLM,
WZOB ZITFVW GSZG GSRH IVEVIHZO RM SRH HGBOV LU DLIP, NZWV KLHHRYOV YB GSV
MVD GVXSMLOLTB, DLFOW KVISZKH SZEV IVHFOGVW RM YVGGVI, NLIV KILWFXGREV
IVHVZIXS.  RMWVVW, VEVM RM GSV XLFIHV LU SRH YILDHRMT GSV OZGRM ZFGSLIH
WRHP ZG IFGTVIH, RGH KLDVIUFO HVZIXS, IVGIRVEZO, ZMW SRTSORTSGRMT
XZKZYRORGRVH HFTTVHGVW GL SRN HVEVIZO MVD ZEVMFVH LU IVHVZIXS RMGL
ERITRO'H FHV LU HLFMW VUUVXGH.  GSRH ZMVXWLGZO ZXXLFMG, WZOB NZRMGZRMVW,
NZB HVIEV GL ROOFHGIZGV RM KZIG GSV HFWWVM ZMW IZWRXZO GIZMHULINZGRLM
YVRMT DILFTSG RM GSV DZBH HXSLOZIH DLIP.

                                 ******

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
NRXSVOHLM * VOVNVMGH IVOZGVW GL HXSLOZIHSRK ZMW GVXSMLOLTB * VOVXGILMRX
GVCGH DRGSRM GSV XLMGVCG LU YILZWVI GIVMWH DRGSRM RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTB
ZMW HXSLOZIOB XLNNFMRXZGRLM * VEZOFZGRLM LU GSV KILHKVXGH ULI GSV FHV LU
VOVXGILMRX GVCGH * IVOZGRLMHSRK LU VOVXGILMRX GVCGH GL KILXVHHVH LU
HXSLOZIOB XLNNFMRXZGRLM RM SFNZMRGRVH IVHVZIXS * MVD VCXSZMTV ULINZGH
XIVZGVW YB HXSLOZIH * KILQVXGH RMRGRZGVW GL RMXIVZHV HXSLOZIOB ZXXVHH GL
XLMEVIGVW GVCG * GIVMW GLDZIW NZPRMT VOVXGILMRX IVHLFIXVH ZEZROZYOV
GSILFTS IVHVZIXS ZMW VWFXZGRLM MVGDLIPH * XSZMTVH GZPRMT KOZXV RM
HXSLOZIOB XLNNFMRXZGRLM ZNLMT SFNZMRGRVH HXSLOZIH * MVGDLIP-NVWRZGVW
HXSLOZIHSRK GIZMHULINRMT GIZWRGRLMZO HXSLOZIOB KIZXGRXVH * PVB
RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTB GIVMWH ZUUVXGRMT GSV XLMWFXG LU HXSLOZIOB
XLNNFMRXZGRLM LEVI GSV MVCG WVXZWV * GSV GIVMW GLDZIW VMW-FHVI XLNKFGRMT
* GSV GIVMW GLDZIW TIVZGVI XLMMVXGRERGB * VUUVXGH LU GSVHV GIVMWH * PVB
GIZMHULINZGRLMH GZPRMT KOZXV * HFNNZIB LU KIRMXRKZO ZITFNVMGH *
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

ZEIZ NRXSVOHLM, ZIXSREZO IVHVZIXS ZMW VEZOFZGRLM HGZUU, MZGRLMZO ZIXSREVH
ZMW IVXLIWH ZWNRMRHGIZGRLM (MZIZ), ZITFVW GSZG VHGZYORHSRMT DSL DROO FHV
VOVXGILMRX GVCGH ZMW DSZG GSVB DROO FHV GSVN ULI RMELOEVH Z XLMHRWVIZGRLM
LU YLGS RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTB ZMW HXSLOZIHSRK GIVMWH.  GSRH
XLMHRWVIZGRLM RMXOFWVH HVEVIZO VOVNVMGH IVOZGVW GL HXSLOZIHSRK ZMW
GVXSMLOLTB:  1) GSV PVB GIVMWH RM RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTB GSZG ZIV NLHG
IVOVEZMG GL HXSLOZIHSRK; 2) GSV PVB GIVMWH RM GSV FHV LU XFIIVMGOB
ZEZROZYOV GVXSMLOLTB YB HXSLOZIH RM GSV MLMHXRVMGRURX XLNNFMRGB; ZMW 3)
GSV IVOZGRLMHSRK YVGDVVM GSVHV GDL EVIB WRHGRMXG YFG RMGVIIVOZGVW GIVMWH.
GSV RMEVHGNVMG RM FMWVIHGZMWRMT GSRH IVOZGRLMHSRK YVRMT NZWV YB
RMULINZGRLM KILERWVIH, GVXSMLOLTRHGH, ZMW KFYORX KLORXB WVEVOLKVIH, ZH
DVOO ZH YB HXSLOZIH GSVNHVOEVH, HVVNH GL YV KVIEZHREV ZMW TILDRMT,
NRXSVOHLM XLMGVMWVW.  HSV WIVD LM XLOOZYLIZGREV DLIP DRGS QVUU ILGSVMYVIT
LM GSV HXSLOZIOB FHV LU GVXSMLOLTB.

NRXSVOHLM HLFTSG GL KOZXV GSV KSVMLNVMLM LU VOVXGILMRX GVCGH DRGSRM GSV
XLMGVCG LU YILZWVI GIVMWH DRGSRM RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTB ZMW HXSLOZIOB
XLNNFMRXZGRLM.  HSV ZITFVW GSZG VOVXGILMRX GVCGH ZIV LU NLHG FHV GL
IVHVZIXSVIH GL GSV VCGVMG GSZG GSV IVHVZIXSVIH' DLIPRMT XLMGVCG (R.V.,
GSVRI IVOVEZMG YRYORLTIZKSRX HLFIXVH, XLOOVTRZO UVVWYZXP, ZMZOBGRX GLLOH,
MLGVH, WIZUGH, VGX.), ZOLMT DRGS GSVRI URVOW'H KIRNZIB ZMW HVXLMWZIB
HLFIXVH, ZOHL RH ZXXVHHRYOV RM VOVXGILMRX ULIN ZMW XZM YV RMGVTIZGVW RM
DZBH GSZG ZIV FMRJFV GL GSV LM-ORMV VMERILMNVMG.

VEZOFZGRLM LU GSV KILHKVXGH ULI GSV FHV LU VOVXGILMRX GVCGH RMXOFWVH GDL
VOVNVMGH:  1) ZM VCZNRMZGRLM LU GSV DZBH RM DSRXS IVHVZIXSVIH XFIIVMGOB
ZIV FHRMT VOVXGILMRX GVCGH ZOLMT DRGS LGSVI VOVXGILMRX IVHLFIXVH, ZMW 2)
ZM ZMZOBHRH LU PVB RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTB GIVMWH GSZG ZIV ZUUVXGRMT GSV
OLMT-GVIN XLMWFXG LU HXSLOZIOB XLNNFMRXZGRLM.  NRXSVOHLM ORNRGVW SVI
WRHXFHHRLM LU GSV FHV LU VOVXGILMRX GVCGH GL GSV KIZXGRXVH LU SFNZMRHGH
ZMW MLGVW GSZG GSV HXRVMGRURX XLNNFMRGB DZH LFGHRWV GSV KZMVO'H LEVIERVD.

NRXSVOHLM VCZNRMVW GSV MZGFIV LU GSV XFIIVMG IVOZGRLMHSRK LU VOVXGILMRX
GVCGH RM KZIGRXFOZI, ZMW VOVXGILMRX IVHLFIXVH RM TVMVIZO, GL DSZG HSV
NZRMGZRMVW DVIV, VHHVMGRZOOB, UREV KILXVHHVH LU HXSLOZIOB XLNNFMRXZGRLM
RM SFNZMRGRVH IVHVZIXS.  IVHVZIXSVIH 1) RWVMGRUB HLFIXVH, 2) XLNNFMRXZGV
DRGS GSVRI XLOOVZTFVH, 3) RMGVIKIVG ZMW ZMZOBAV WZGZ, 4) WRHHVNRMZGV
GSVRI IVHVZIXS URMWRMTH, ZMW 5) KIVKZIV XFIIRXFOZ GL RMHGIFXG GSV MVCG
TVMVIZGRLM LU HXSLOZIH ZMW HGFWVMGH.  GSRH VCZNRMZGRLM DLFOW KILWFXV Z
XOVZIVI FMWVIHGZMWRMT LU GSV HBMVITB ZNLMT GSVHV UREV KILXVHHVH GSZG
UFVOH GSV GVMWVMXB LU GSV FHV LU VOVXGILMRX IVHLFIXVH ULI LMV KILXVHH GL
HGRNFOZGV RGH FHV ULI LGSVI KILXVHHVH LU HXSLOZIOB XLNNFMRXZGRLM.

ULI GSV URIHG KILXVHH LU HXSLOZIOB XLNNFMRXZGRLM, GSV RWVMGRURXZGRLM LU
HLFIXVH, NRXSVOHLM IVNZIPVW GSV LKKLIGFMRGB HXSLOZIH MLD VMQLB GL
HFKKOVNVMG GIZWRGRLMZO DLIW-LU-NLFGS HVZIXSVH ULI HLFIXVH ZNLMT GSVRI
XLOOVZTFVH DRGS MVD ULINH LU VOVXGILMRX HVZIXSRMT.  HL, ULI VCZNKOV,
RMHGVZW LU SZERMT GL ERHRG GSV ORYIZIB, IVHVZIXSVIH ZIV ZYOV GL VCKOLIV
WVHXIRKGRLMH LU SLOWRMTH RM GSVRI LUURXVH.  UFIGSVINLIV, RU GSVRI LDM
RMHGRGFGRLMH' SLOWRMTH KILEV RMHFUURXRVMG, HXSLOZIH XZM ZXXVHH NLIV GSZM
200 NZQLI ZNVIRXZM ORYIZIB XZGZOLTFVH LEVI RMGVIMVG, RMXOFWRMT GSV
FMREVIHRGRVH LU XZORULIMRZ, NRXSRTZM, KVMMHBOEZMRZ, ZMW DRHXLMHRM.
WRIVXG ZXXVHH GL GSV YRYORLTIZKSRX WZGZYZHVH LUUVIH RMGVOOVXGFZO
VNKLDVINVMG GL HXSLOZIH YB KIVHVMGRMT Z XLNKIVSVMHREV NVZMH LU YILDHRMT
GSILFTS ORYIZIRVH UILN GSVRI SLNVH ZMW LUURXVH ZG GSVRI XLMEVMRVMXV.

GSV HVXLMW KILXVHH LU XLNNFMRXZGRLM RMELOEVH XLNNFMRXZGRLM ZNLMT
HXSLOZIH.  YVBLMW GSV NLHG XLNNLM NVGSLWH LU XLNNFMRXZGRLM, HXSLOZIH ZIV
FHRMT V-NZRO ZMW Z EZIRVGB LU MVD VOVXGILMRX XLNNFMRXZGRLMH ULINZGH
WVIREVW UILN RG ULI UFIGSVI ZXZWVNRX RMGVIXSZMTV.  V-NZRO VCXSZMTVH ZIV
TILDRMT ZG ZM ZHGLMRHSRMT IZGV, IVKLIGVWOB 15 KVIXVMG Z NLMGS.  GSVB
XFIIVMGOB XLMHGRGFGV ZKKILCRNZGVOB SZOU GSV GIZUURX LM IVHVZIXS ZMW
VWFXZGRLM MVGDLIPH.  NLIVLEVI, GSV TOLYZO HKIVZW LU V-NZRO SZH YVVM HL
IZKRW GSZG RG RH MLD KLHHRYOV ULI ZNVIRXZM HXSLOZIH GL FHV RG GL
XLNNFMRXZGV DRGS XLOOVZTFVH RM XOLHV GL 140 LGSVI XLFMGIRVH.

LGSVI MVD VCXSZMTV ULINZGH XIVZGVW YB HXSLOZIH ZMW LKVIZGRMT LM RMGVIMVG
RMXOFWV NLIV GSZM 700 XLMUVIVMXVH, DRGS ZYLFG 80 KVIXVMG LU GSVHV WVELGVW
GL GLKRXH RM GSV HLXRZO HXRVMXVH ZMW SFNZMRGRVH.  GSV IZGV LU TILDGS LU
GSVHV HXSLOZIOB VOVXGILMRX XLMUVIVMXVH ZOHL RH ZHGLMRHSRMT.  UILN O990 GL
O991, 200 MVD XLMUVIVMXVH DVIV RWVMGRURVW LM RMGVIMVG.  UILN LXGLYVI 1991
GL QFMV 1992, ZM ZWWRGRLMZO 150 XLMUVIVMXVH RM GSV HLXRZO HXRVMXVH ZMW
SFNZMRGRVH DVIV ZWWVW GL GSRH WRIVXGLIB LU ORHGRMTH.  HXSLOZIH SZEV
VHGZYORHSVW XLMUVIVMXVH RM ERIGFZOOB VEVIB URVOW, DRGSRM VEVIB WRUUVIVMG
WRHXRKORMV.  ULI VCZNKOV, GSVIV ZIV XFIIVMGOB XOLHV GL 600 ZXGREV HLXRZO
HXRVMXV ZMW SFNZMRGRVH  XLMUVIVMXVH LM GLKRXH HFXS ZH ZIG ZMW
ZIXSRGVXGFIV, VGSMLNFHRXLOLTB, ULOPOLIV, QZKZMVHV XFOGFIV, NVWRXZO
VWFXZGRLM, ZMW TRUGVW ZMW GZOVMGVW VWFXZGRLM.  GSV ZKKVZO GL HXSLOZIH LU
XLNNFMRXZGRMT GSILFTS GSVHV XLMUVIVMXVH RH GSZG, FMORPV ZMB LGSVI NVWRFN,
VOVXGILMRX XLMUVIVMXVH GLWZB KILERWV Z ULIFN ULI TOLYZO XLNNFMRXZGRLM
DRGS KVVIH ZG GSV UILMG VMW LU GSV IVHVZIXS KILXVHH.

RMGVIKIVGZGRLM ZMW ZMZOBHRH LU HLFIXVH XLMHGRGFGVH GSV GSRIW KILXVHH LU
HXSLOZIOB XLNNFMRXZGRLM GSZG NRXSVOHLM WRHXFHHVW RM GVINH LU GVCGH ZMW
GVCGFZO IVHLFIXVH.  GSV NVGSLWH FHVW GL ZMZOBAV HLFIXVH UZOO HLNVDSVIV LM
Z XLMGRMFFN UILN JFZMGRGZGREV ZMZOBHRH GL JFZORGZGREV ZMZOBHRH.
GBKRXZOOB, VERWVMXV RH XFOOVW ZMW VEZOFZGVW FHRMT NVGSLWH WIZDM UILN YLGS
VMWH LU GSRH XLMGRMFFN.  ZG LMV VMW, JFZMGRGZGREV ZMZOBHRH RMELOEVH GSV
FHV LU NZGSVNZGRXZO KILXVHHVH HFXS ZH Z XLFMG LU UIVJFVMXRVH ZMW
WRHGIRYFGRLMH LU LXXFIIVMXVH LI, LM Z SRTSVI OVEVO, IVTIVHHRLM ZMZOBHRH.
ZG GSV LGSVI VMW LU GSV XLMGRMFFN, JFZORGZGREV ZMZOBHRH GBKRXZOOB
RMELOEVH MLMNZGSVNZGRXZO KILXVHHVH LIRVMGVW GLDZIW OZMTFZTV
RMGVIKIVGZGRLM LI GSV YFROWRMT LU GSVLIB.  ZHKVXGH LU GSRH DLIP RMELOEV
GSV KILXVHHRMT--VRGSVI NZMFZO LI XLNKFGZGRLMZO--LU OZITV ZMW HLNVGRNVH
NZHHREV ZNLFMGH LU GVCGFZO HLFIXVH, ZOGSLFTS GSV FHV LU MLMGVCGFZO
HLFIXVH ZH VERWVMXV, HFXS ZH KSLGLTIZKSH, HLFMW IVXLIWRMTH, URON ULLGZTV,
ZMW ZIGRUZXGH, RH HRTMRURXZMG ZH DVOO.

HXSLOZIH SZEV WRHXLEVIVW GSZG NZMB LU GSV NVGSLWH LU RMGVIKIVGZGRLM ZMW
ZMZOBHRH GSZG ZIV IVOZGVW GL YLGS JFZMGRGZGREV ZMW JFZORGZGREV NVGSLWH
ZIV KILXVHHVH GSZG XZM YV KVIULINVW YB XLNKFGVIH.  ULI VCZNKOV, XLNKFGVIH
XZM XLFMG.  GSVB XZM XLFMG YIFHS HGILPVH FHVW RM Z IVNYIZMWG KZRMGRMT LI
KVIULIN IVTIVHHRLM ZMZOBHRH ULI FMWVIHGZMWRMT XZFHV ZMW VUUVXG.  YB NVZMH
LU ZWEZMXVW GVXSMLOLTRVH, XLNKFGVIH XZM IVXLTMRAV KZGGVIMH, ZMZOBAV GVCG,
ZMW NLWVO XLMXVKGH.  UFIGSVINLIV, XLNKFGVIH XZM XLNKOVGV GSVHV KILXVHHVH
UZHGVI DRGS NLIV HLFIXVH ZMW DRGS TIVZGVI KIVXRHRLM GSZM HXSLOZIH DSL
NFHG IVOB LM NZMFZO RMGVIKIVGZGRLM LU WZGZ.  YFG RU HXSLOZIH ZIV GL FHV
XLNKFGVIH ULI GSVHV KILXVHHVH, HLFIXV NZGVIRZOH NFHG YV RM Z ULIN
ZNVMZYOV GL XLNKFGVI-ZHHRHGVW ZMZOBHRH.  ULI GSRH IVZHLM NZMB HXSLOZIH,
LMXV GSVB SZEV RWVMGRURVW GSV HLFIXVH GSZG ZIV PVB GL GSVRI IVHVZIXS, ZIV
XLMEVIGRMT GSVN GL NZXSRMV-IVZWZYOV ULIN.  GSFH, Z IVKIVHVMGZGREV VCZNKOV
LU GSV MFNVILFH GVCGFZO XLMEVIHRLM KILQVXGH LITZMRAVW YB HXSLOZIH ZILFMW
GSV DLIOW RM IVXVMG BVZIH GL HFKKLIG XLNKFGZGRLMZO GVCG ZMZOBHRH RH GSV
GOT, GSV GSVHZFIFH ORMTFZV TIZVXZV.  GSRH KILQVXG RH WVELGVW GL
XLMEVIGRMT GSV VCGZMG ZMXRVMG GVCGH LU XOZHHRXZO TIVVXV.  (VWRGLI'H MLGV:
ZXXLIWRMT GL GSV GOT MVDHOVGGVI LU NZB O992, GOT DZH RM FHV RM GSRIGB-GDL
WRUUVIVMG XLFMGIRVH.  GSRH URTFIV FKWZGVH NRXSVOHLM'H KIVERLFH XLFMG YB LMV.)

GSV HXSLOZIH KVIULINRMT GSVHV XLMEVIHRLMH SZEV YVVM ZHPVW GL IVXLTMRAV
GSZG GSV VOVXGILMRX HLFIXVH GSVB ZIV XLMEVIGRMT ULI LMV FHV KLHHVHH EZOFV
ULI LGSVI IVHVZIXS KFIKLHVH ZH DVOO.  ZH Z IVHFOG, WFIRMT GSV KZHG UVD
BVZIH, SFNZMRGRVH HXSLOZIH SZEV RMRGRZGVW Z MFNYVI LU KILQVXGH GL
RMXIVZHV HXSLOZIOB ZXXVHH GL XLMEVIGVW GVCG.  HL, ULI VCZNKOV, GSV GVCG
VMXLWRMT RMRGRZGREV (GVR), ZYLFG DSRXS NLIV RH HZRW OZGVI RM GSV KILTIZN,
DZH VHGZYORHSVW ZH ZM VUULIG YB HXSLOZIH GL WVGVINRMV HGZMWZIW VOVNVMGH
ZMW NVGSLWH ULI VMXLWRMT NZXSRMV-IVZWZYOV GVCG ULI VOVXGILMRX VCXSZMTV.
RM Z HVXLMW VUULIG GL UZXRORGZGV GSV HSZIRMT LU XLMEVIGVW GVCG, HXSLOZIH
SZEV XIVZGVW Z MVD RMHGRGFGRLM, GSV XVMGVI ULI VOVXGILMRX GVCGH RM GSV
SFNZMRGRVH (XVGS).  GSV XVMGVI VHGRNZGVH GSZG GSVIV ZIV 8,000 HVIRVH LU
HLFIXV GVCGH RM GSV SFNZMRGRVH GSZG SZEV YVVM XLMEVIGVW GL
NZXSRMV-IVZWZYOV ULIN DLIOWDRWV.  XVGS RH FMWVIGZPRMT ZM RMGVIMZGRLMZO
HVZIXS ULI XLMEVIGVW GVCG RM GSV SFNZMRGRVH, XLNKRORMT RG RMGL ZM
VOVXGILMRX ORYIZIB, ZMW KIVKZIRMT YRYORLTIZKSRX WVHXIRKGRLMH LU GSV
HLFIXVH ULI GSV IVHVZIXS ORYIZIRVH RMULINZGRLM MVGDLIP'H (IORM)
NZXSRMV-IVZWZYOV WZGZ UROV.  GSV ORYIZIB KILUVHHRLM SZH YVTFM GL RMRGRZGV
OZITV XLMEVIHRLM KILQVXGH ZH DVOO, HFXS ZH ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB.

DSROV HXSLOZIH SZEV YVVM NZPRMT XLMEVIGVW GVCG ZEZROZYOV GL LMV ZMLGSVI,
GBKRXZOOB LM WRHP LI LM XW-ILN, GSV XOVZI GIVMW RH GLDZIW NZPRMT GSVHV
IVHLFIXVH ZEZROZYOV GSILFTS IVHVZIXS ZMW VWFXZGRLM MVGDLIPH.  GSFH, GSV
ZNVIRXZM ZMW UIVMXS IVHVZIXS LM GSV GIVZHFIB LU GSV UIVMXS OZMTFZTV
(ZIGUO) ZMW GSV WZMGV KILQVXG ZIV ZOIVZWB ZEZROZYOV LM RMGVIMVG.
NRXSVOHLM HFNNZIRAVW GSRH HVXGRLM LM RMGVIKIVGZGRLM ZMW ZMZOBHRH YB
MLGRMT GSZG:  1) RMXIVZHRMT MFNYVIH LU SFNZMRGRVH HXSLOZIH RM GSV ORYIZIB
XLNNFMRGB ZIV IVXLTMRARMT GSV RNKLIGZMXV GL GSV ZWEZMXVNVMG LU
HXSLOZIHSRK LU IVGILHKVXGREV XLMEVIHRLM LU HLFIXV NZGVIRZOH RM GSV ZIGH
ZMW SFNZMRGRVH; ZMW 2) GSVIV RH Z TILDRMT IVZORAZGRLM GSZG NZPRMT GSV
HLFIXVH ZEZROZYOV LM IVHVZIXS ZMW VWFXZGRLM MVGDLIPH NZCRNRAVH GSVRI
FHVUFOMVHH ULI GSV ZMZOBHRH KVIULINVW YB SFNZMRGRVH HXSLOZIH.

GSV ULFIGS KILXVHH LU HXSLOZIOB XLNNFMRXZGRLM RH WRHHVNRMZGRLM LU
IVHVZIXS URMWRMTH, GSZG RH, KFYORXZGRLM.  HXSLOZIH ZIV FHRMT VCRHGRMT
IVHVZIXS ZMW VWFXZGRLM MVGDLIPH GL VMTRMVVI Z MVD GBKV LU KFYORXZGRLM:
HXSLOZIOB-XLMGILOOVW QLFIMZOH GSZG ZIV VOVXGILMRXZOOB KILWFXVW ZMW
WRHHVNRMZGVW.  ZOGSLFTS HFXS QLFIMZOH ZIV HGROO VNVITRMT ZH Z
XLNNFMRXZGRLM ULINZG, GSVRI MFNYVI SZH TILDM, UILN ZKKILCRNZGVOB GDVOEV
GL GSRIGB-HRC WFIRMT GSV KZHG BVZI (QFOB 1991 GL QFMV 1992).  NLHG LU
GSVHV VOVXGILMRX HXSLOZIOB QLFIMZOH ZIV WVELGVW GL GLKRXH RM GSV
SFNZMRGRVH.  ZH DRGS MVGDLIP XLMUVIVMXVH, HXSLOZIOB VMGSFHRZHN ULI GSVHV
VOVXGILMRX QLFIMZOH HGVNH UILN GSV NVWRFN'H FMRJFV ZYRORGB GL ZWEZMXV
HXSLOZIHSRK RM Z DZB GSZG ML LGSVI NVWRFN XZM WL YB HFKKLIGRMT TOLYZO
UVVWYZXP ZMW RMGVIXSZMTV, KIZXGRXZOOB RM IVZO GRNV, VZIOB RM GSV IVHVZIXS
KILXVHH.  YVBLMW HXSLOZIOB QLFIMZOH, NRXSVOHLM IVNZIPVW GSV WVOREVIB LU
XLNNVIXRZO UFOO-GVCG KILWFXGH, HFXS ZH ZIGRXOVH RM KILUVHHRLMZO QLFIMZOH,
MVDHOVGGVIH, NZTZARMVH, DRIV HVIERXVH, ZMW IVUVIVMXV HLFIXVH.  GSVHV ZIV
YVRMT WVOREVIVW ERZ LM-ORMV OLXZO ORYIZIB XZGZOLTFVH, VHKVXRZOOB GSILFTS
XW-ILNH.  UFIGSVINLIV, ZXXLIWRMT GL NRXSVOHLM, GSVIV RH TVMVIZO LKGRNRHN
GSZG GSV XLKBIRTSG ZMW UVVH RHHFVH RNKVWRMT GSV WVOREVIB LU UFOO GVCG LM
VCRHGRMT IVHVZIXS ZMW VWFXZGRLM MVGDLIPH HLLM DROO YV IVHLOEVW.

GSV URMZO KILXVHH LU HXSLOZIOB XLNNFMRXZGRLM RH XFIIRXFOFN WVEVOLKNVMG
ZMW RMHGIFXGRLM, ZMW GSRH RMELOEVH GSV FHV LU XLNKFGVI RMULINZGRLM
GVXSMLOLTRVH RM GDL ZIVZH.  GSV URIHG RH GSV WVEVOLKNVMG LU
XLNKFGVI-LIRVMGVW RMHGIFXGRLMZO GLLOH, DSRXS RMXOFWVH HRNFOZGRLMH,
NFOGRNVWRZ ZKKORXZGRLMH, ZMW XLNKFGVI GLLOH GSZG ZIV FHVW GL ZHHRHG RM
GSV ZMZOBHRH LU HLFIXVH RM GSV XOZHHILLN, VGX.  GSV KVIHVFH KILQVXG, Z
WZGZYZHV GSZG KILERWVH Z NFOGRNVWRZ XFIIRXFOFN LM XOZHHRXZO TIVVP
XRERORAZGRLM, RH Z TLLW VCZNKOV LU GSV DZB RM DSRXS VMGRIV XFIIRXFOZ ZIV
YVRMT IVXZHG FHRMT RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTRVH.  RG RH ZMGRXRKZGVW GSZG GSV
XFIIVMG WRUURXFOGB RM VCXSZMTRMT VOVXGILMRXZOOB XLNKFGVI-YZHVW
RMHGIFXGRLMZO HLUGDZIV, DSRXS RM GFIM NZPVH RG WRUURXFOG ULI LMV HXSLOZI
GL YFROW FKLM GSV DLIP LU LGSVIH, DROO YV IVHLOEVW YVULIV GLL OLMT.
HGZMW-ZOLMV XFIIRXFOZI ZKKORXZGRLMH GSZG RMELOEV VOVXGILMRX GVCG DROO YV
HSZIZYOV GSILFTS MVGDLIPH, IVRMULIXRMT GSVRI HRTMRURXZMXV ZH RMGVOOVXGFZO
KILWFXGH ZH DVOO ZH RMHGIFXGRLMZO GLLOH.

GSV HVXLMW ZHKVXG LU VOVXGILMRX OVZIMRMT RMELOEVH GSV FHV LU IVHVZIXS ZMW
VWFXZGRLM MVGDLIPH ULI WRHGZMXV VWFXZGRLM KILTIZNH.  HFXS KILTIZNH
RMGVIZXGREVOB ORMP GVZXSVIH DRGS HGFWVMGH RM TVLTIZKSRXZOOB HXZGGVIVW
OLXZGRLMH ZMW IVOB LM GSV ZEZROZYRORGB LU VOVXGILMRX RMHGIFXGRLMZO
IVHLFIXVH.  WRHGZMXV VWFXZGRLM KILTIZNH ZIV TZRMRMT DRWV ZKKVZO ZNLMT
HGZGV WVKZIGNVMGH LU VWFXZGRLM YVXZFHV LU GSVRI WVNLMHGIZGVW XZKZXRGB GL
YIRMT ZWEZMXVW HKVXRZORAVW XLFIHV DLIP ZMW ZM ZIIZB LU VCKVIGH GL NZMB
XOZHHILLNH.  Z IVXVMG IVKLIG ULFMW GSZG ZG OVZHG 32 HGZGVH LKVIZGVW ZG
OVZHG LMV HGZGVDRWV MVGDLIP ULI VWFXZGRLM RM 1991, DRGS MVGDLIPH FMWVI
WVEVOLKNVMG RM NZMB LU GSV IVNZRMRMT HGZGVH.

NRXSVOHLM HFNNZIRAVW GSRH HVXGRLM YB MLGRMT GDL HGIRPRMT XSZMTVH GZPRMT
KOZXV RM HXSLOZIOB XLNNFMRXZGRLM ZNLMT SFNZMRGRVH HXSLOZIH.  URIHG RH GSV
VCGVMG GL DSRXS VOVXGILMRX GVCG RM KZIGRXFOZI, ZMW VOVXGILMRX IVHLFIXVH
RM TVMVIZO, ZIV YVRMT RMUFHVW RMGL VZXS LU GSV UREV KILXVHHVH WVHXIRYVW
ZYLEV.  ZH NVMGRLMVW VZIORVI, GSVIV RH Z XVIGZRM HBMVITB ZG DLIP SVIV.
GSV FHV LU VOVXGILMRX IVHLFIXVH ULI LMV KILXVHH GVMWH GL HGRNFOZGV RGH
FHV ULI LGSVI KILXVHHVH, YVXZFHV GSV XSRVU XLFIHV LU NLEVNVMG RH GLDZIW Z
XLNKIVSVMHREV LM-ORMV DLIPRMT XLMGVCG ULI SFNZMRGRVH HXSLOZIH GSZG
RMXOFWVH LM-ORMV ZEZROZYRORGB LU PVB YRYORLTIZKSRVH, HXSLOZIOB UVVWYZXP,
HLFIXVH, ZMZOBGRXZO GLLOH, ZMW KFYORXZGRLMH.  NRXSVOHLM MLGVW UFIGSVI
GSZG GSV NLEVNVMG GLDZIW Z XLNKIVSVMHREV LM-ORMV DLIPRMT XLMGVCG ULI
SFNZMRGRVH HXSLOZIH RH MLG MVD.  RM UZXG, RG SZH YVVM FMWVIDZB ULI NLIV
GSZM ULIGB BVZIH RM GSV SFNZMRGRVH, HRMXV UZGSVI ILYVIGL YFHZ YVTZM
WVEVOLKRMT ZM VOVXGILMRX XLMXLIWZMXV LU GSV DLIPH LU HZRMG GSLNZH ZJFRMZH
RM 1949.  DSZG DV ZIV DRGMVHHRMT GLWZB, NRXSVOHLM XLMGVMWVW, RH MLG GSV
YVTRMMRMT LU GSRH LM-ORMV GIZMHRGRLM YFG, ULI ZG OVZHG HLNV SFNZMRGRVH
HXSLOZIH, GSV GFIMRMT KLRMG RM GSV GIZMHRGRLM UILN Z KIRMG GL ZM
VOVXGILMRX DLIPRMT XLMGVCG.  XLRMXRWRMT DRGS GSV LM-ORMV GIZMHRGRLM, GSV
HVXLMW HGIRPRMT XSZMTV RH GSV VCGVMG GL DSRXS IVHVZIXS ZMW VWFXZGRLM
MVGDLIPH ZIV YVXLNRMT GSV MVD NVWRFN LU HXSLOZIOB XLNNFMRXZGRLM.  GSV
VCRHGRMT RMGVIMVG ZMW GSV KVMWRMT MZGRLMZO VWFXZGRLM ZMW IVHVZIXS MVGDLIP
(MIVM) IVKIVHVMG GSV MVD NVVGRMT TILFMW DSVIV HXSLOZIH ZIV TLRMT ULI
YRYORLTIZKSRX RMULINZGRLM, HXSLOZIOB WRZOLTFV ZMW UVVWYZXP, GSV NLHG
XFIIVMG KFYORXZGRLMH RM GSVRI URVOW, ZMW SRTS-OVEVO VWFXZGRLMZO
LUUVIRMTH.  GIZWRGRLMZO HXSLOZIOB KIZXGRXVH ZIV FMWVITLRMT GIVNVMWLFH
GIZMHULINZGRLMH ZH Z IVHFOG LU GSV VNVITVMXV ZMW TILDRMT KILNRMVMXV LU
DSZG RH XZOOVW MVGDLIP-NVWRZGVW HXSLOZIHSRK.

NRXSVOHLM MVCG GFIMVW GL GSV HVXLMW VOVNVMG LU GSV UIZNVDLIP HSV KILKLHVW
ZG GSV LFGHVG LU SVI GZOP ULI VEZOFZGRMT GSV KILHKVXGH ULI VOVXGILMRX
GVCG, MZNVOB GSV PVB RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTB GIVMWH ZUUVXGRMT GSV XLMWFXG
LU HXSLOZIOB XLNNFMRXZGRLM LEVI GSV MVCG WVXZWV:  1) VMW-FHVI XLNKFGRMT
ZMW 2) XLMMVXGRERGB.

VMW-FHVI XLNKFGRMT NVZMH GSZG GSV KVIHLM GLFXSRMT GSV PVBYLZIW, LI
KVIULINRMT XLNKFGZGRLMH, RH GSV HZNV ZH GSV KVIHLM DSL RMRGRZGVH LI
XLMHFNVH GSV XLNKFGZGRLM.  GSV VNVITVMXV LU KVIHLMZO XLNKFGVIH, ZOLMT
DRGS Z SLHG LU LGSVI ULIXVH, HFXS ZH FYRJFRGLFH XLNKFGRMT, ZWEZMXVH RM
RMGVIUZXV WVHRTM, ZMW GSV LM-ORMV GIZMHRGRLM, RH KILNKGRMT GSV XLMHFNVIH
LU XLNKFGZGRLM GL WL GSVRI LDM XLNKFGRMT, ZMW RH GSFH IVMWVIRMT LYHLOVGV
GSV GIZWRGRLMZO WRHGRMXGRLM YVGDVVM VMW FHVIH ZMW FOGRNZGV FHVIH.

GSV GIVMW GLDZIW VMW-FHVI XLNKFGRMT RH HRTMRURXZMG GL XLMHRWVIZGRLM LU
GSV KILHKVXGH ULI VOVXGILMRX GVCGH YVXZFHV RG NVZMH GSZG IVHVZIXSVIH ZIV
YVXLNRMT NLIV ZWVKG ZG WLRMT GSVRI LDM XLNKFGZGRLMH ZMW, GSFH, NLIV
XLNKVGVMG RM GSV FHV LU VOVXGILMRX NVWRZ.  YB ZELRWRMT KILTIZNNVI
RMGVINVWRZIRVH, XLNKFGZGRLM RH YVXLNRMT XVMGIZO GL GSV IVHVZIXSVI'H
GSLFTSG KILXVHH.  GSRH WRIVXG RMELOEVNVMG RM XLNKFGRMT RH XSZMTRMT GSV
IVHVZIXSVI'H KVIHKVXGREV LM GSV MZGFIV LU IVHVZIXS RGHVOU, GSZG RH, GSV
PRMWH LU JFVHGRLMH GSZG XZM YV KLHVW, GSV ZMZOBGRXZO NVGSLWLOLTRVH GSZG
XZM YV FHVW, GSV GBKVH ZMW ZNLFMG LU HLFIXVH GSZG ZIV ZKKILKIRZGV ULI
ZMZOBHVH, ZMW GSV ULIN RM DSRXS URMWRMTH ZIV KIVHVMGVW.  GSV GIVMW GLDZIW
VMW-FHVI XLNKFGRMT NVZMH GSZG, RMXIVZHRMTOB, VOVXGILMRX NVWRZ ZMW
XLNKFGZGRLM ZIV YVRMT RMUFHVW RMGL ZOO KILXVHHVH LU SFNZMRGRVH
HXSLOZIHSRK, RMHKRIRMT IVNZIPZYOV GIZMHULINZGRLMH RM HXSLOZIOB
XLNNFMRXZGRLM.

GSV GIVMW GLDZIW TIVZGVI XLMMVXGRERGB HFTTVHGH GSZG IVHVZIXSVIH ZIV FHRMT
XLNKFGZGRLM RMXIVZHRMTOB RM MVGDLIP VMERILMNVMGH.  XLMMVXGRERGB RH
RNKLIGZMG GL HXSLOZIHSRK YVXZFHV RG VIZHVH GSV WRHGZMXV GSZG HVKZIZGVH
HGFWVMGH UILN GVZXSVIH ZMW HXSLOZIH UILN GSVRI XLOOVZTFVH, DSROV ZOOLDRMT
FHVIH GL ZXXVHH IVNLGV WZGZYZHVH, HSZIV RMULINZGRLM RM NZMB WRUUVIVMG
NVWRZ, XLMMVXG GL GSVRI DLIPRMT XLMGVCG DSVIVEVI GSVB ZIV, ZMW
XLOOZYLIZGV RM ZOO KSZHVH LU IVHVZIXS.

GSV XLNYRMZGRLM LU GSV GIVMW GLDZIW VMW-FHVI XLNKFGRMT ZMW GSV GIVMW
GLDZIW XLMMVXGRERGB HFTTVHGH GSZG GSV HXSLOZIOB FHV LU VOVXGILMRX
IVHLFIXVH, ZOIVZWB VERWVMG ZNLMT HLNV IVHVZIXSVIH, DROO HLLM YVXLNV ZM
VHGZYORHSVW UVZGFIV LU HXSLOZIHSRK.  GSV VUUVXGH LU GSVHV GIVMWH, ZOLMT
DRGS LMTLRMT XSZMTVH RM HXSLOZIOB KIZXGRXVH, KLRMG GL Z UFGFIV RM DSRXS
SFNZMRGRVH IVHVZIXSVIH DROO FHV XLNKFGZGRLM ZMW VOVXGILMRX XLNNFMRXZGRLM
GL SVOK GSVN ULINFOZGV RWVZH, ZXXVHH HLFIXVH, KVIULIN IVHVZIXS,
XLOOZYLIZGV DRGS XLOOVZTFVH, HVVP KVVI IVERVD, KFYORHS ZMW WRHHVNRMZGV
IVHFOGH, ZMW VMTZTV RM NZMB LGSVI KILUVHHRLMZO ZMW VWFXZGRLMZO ZXGRERGRVH.

RM HFNNZIB, NRXSVOHLM VNKSZHRAVW ULFI KLRMGH:  1) Z KLIGRLM LU SFNZMRGRVH
HXSLOZIH ZOIVZWB XLMHRWVI VOVXGILMRX GVCGH GSV KIVUVIIVW ULINZG ULI
ZMZOBHRH ZMW WRHHVNRMZGRLM.  2) HXSLOZIH ZIV FHRMT GSVHV VOVXGILMRX
GVCGH, RM XLMQFMXGRLM DRGS LGSVI VOVXGILMRX IVHLFIXVH, RM ZOO GSV
KILXVHHVH LU HXSLOZIOB XLNNFMRXZGRLM.  3) GSV SFNZMRGRVH HXSLOZIH'
DLIPRMT XLMGVCG RH RM GSV KILXVHH LU XSZMTRMT UILN KIRMG GVXSMLOLTB GL
VOVXGILMRX GVXSMLOLTB, RM NZMB DZBH NRIILIRMT GIZMHULINZGRLMH GSZG SZEV
LXXFIIVW LI ZIV LXXFIIRMT DRGSRM GSV HXRVMGRURX XLNNFMRGB.  4) GSVHV
XSZMTVH ZIV LXXFIIRMT RM XLMQFMXGRLM DRGS GSV WVEVOLKNVMG LU Z MVD
XLNNFMRXZGRLM NVWRFN:  IVHVZIXS ZMW VWFXZGRLM MVGDLIPH GSZG ZIV
XSZIZXGVIRAVW YB GSVRI XZKZXRGB GL ZWEZMXV HXSLOZIHSRK RM Z DSLOOB FMRJFV
DZB.

NRXSVOHLM ZOHL IVRGVIZGVW SVI GSIVV KIRMXRKZO ZITFNVMGH:  O) VOVXGILMRX
GVCGH ZIV YVHG FMWVIHGLLW RM GVINH LU GSV IVOZGRLMHSRK GL LGSVI
VOVXGILMRX IVHLFIXVH ZMW GSV TILDRMT KILNRMVMXV LU MVGDLIP-NVWRZGVW
HXSLOZIHSRK.  2) GSV KILHKVXGH ULI VOVXGILMRX GVCGH ORV RM GSVRI XZKZXRGB
GL YV RMGVTIZGVW RMGL GSV LM-ORMV MVGDLIP LU VOVXGILMRX IVHLFIXVH GSZG
XLNKIRHV GSV MVD DLIPRMT XLMGVCG ULI HXSLOZIH.  3) IVGILHKVXGREV XLMEVIHRLM
LU KLIGRLMH LU GSV HXSLOZIOB IVXLIW HSLFOW YV Z PVB HGIZGVTB ZH RMULINZGRLM
KILERWVIH IVHKLMW GL XSZMTVH RM HXSLOZIOB XLNNFMRXZGRLM KIZXGRXVH.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
EVXXRZ * ZN'H VEZOFZGRLM KILQVXG ZMW KFYORX FHVIH LU VOVXGILMRX IVHLFIXVH
* ZN ZMW RGH WVHRTM * HRGV HVOVXGRLM ZMW VEZOFZGRMT GSV NZXRMGLHS
RNKOVNVMGZGRLM LU ZN * XSZIZXGVIRHGRXH LU GSV HRC KFYORX ORYIZIRVH
HVOVXGVW * XSZIZXGVIRHGRXH LU ZN'H FHVIH RM GSVHV ORYIZIRVH * KIRMXRKZO
DZBH ZN RH YVRMT FHVW *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

HFHZM EVXXRZ, GVZN OVZWVI, ZMW QLZMMV UIVVNZM, ZHHLXRZGV XLLIWRMZGLI,
ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB, ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH, TZEV Z QLRMG KIVHVMGZGRLM.  URIHG,
YB DZB LU RMGILWFXGRLM, EVXXRZ VCKOZRMVW SVI ZMW UIVVNZM'H ILOVH RM
