FLEISCHHAUER argued that the real asset was the underlying collection.

FLEISCHHAUER proceeded to describe various search and retrieval
capabilities while ERWAY worked the computer.  In this particular package
the "go to" pull-down allowed the user in effect to jump out of Toolbook,
where the interactive program was located, and enter the third-party
software used by AM for this text collection, which is called Personal
Librarian.  This was the Windows version of Personal Librarian, a
software application put together by a company in Rockville, Md.

Since the broadsides came from the Revolutionary War period, a search was
conducted using the words British or war, with the default operator reset
as or.  FLEISCHHAUER demonstrated both automatic stemming (which finds
other forms of the same root) and a truncated search.  One of Personal
Librarian's strongest features, the relevance ranking, was represented by
a chart that indicated how often words being sought appeared in
documents, with the one receiving the most "hits" obtaining the highest
score.  The "hit list" that is supplied takes the relevance ranking into
account, making the first hit, in effect, the one the software has
selected as the most relevant example.

While in the text of one of the broadside documents, FLEISCHHAUER
remarked AM's attempt to find ways to connect cataloging to the texts,
which it does in different ways in different manifestations.  In the case
shown, the cataloging was pasted on:  AM took MARC records that were
written as on-line records right into one of the Library's mainframe
retrieval programs, pulled them out, and handed them off to the contractor,
who massaged them somewhat to display them in the manner shown.  One of
AM's questions is, Does the cataloguing normally performed in the mainframe
work in this context, or had AM ought to think through adjustments?

FLEISCHHAUER made the additional point that, as far as the text goes, AM
has gravitated towards SGML (he pointed to the boldface in the upper part
of the screen).  Although extremely limited in its ability to translate
or interpret SGML, Personal Librarian will furnish both bold and italics
on screen; a fairly easy thing to do, but it is one of the ways in which
SGML is useful.

Striking a balance between quantity and quality has been a major concern
of AM, with accuracy being one of the places where project staff have
felt that less than 100-percent accuracy was not unacceptable.
FLEISCHHAUER cited the example of the standard of the rekeying industry,
namely 99.95 percent; as one service bureau informed him, to go from
99.95 to 100 percent would double the cost.

FLEISCHHAUER next demonstrated how AM furnishes users recourse to images,
and at the same time recalled LESK's pointed question concerning the
number of people who would look at those images and the number who would
work only with the text.  If the implication of LESK's question was
sound, FLEISCHHAUER said, it raised the stakes for text accuracy and
reduced the value of the strategy for images.

Contending that preservation is always a bugaboo, FLEISCHHAUER
demonstrated several images derived from a scan of a preservation
microfilm that AM had made.  He awarded a grade of C at best, perhaps a
C minus or a C plus, for how well it worked out.  Indeed, the matter of
learning if other people had better ideas about scanning in general, and,
in particular, scanning from microfilm, was one of the factors that drove
AM to attempt to think through the agenda for the Workshop.  Skew, for
example, was one of the issues that AM in its ignorance had not reckoned
would prove so difficult.

Further, the handling of images of the sort shown, in a desktop computer
environment, involved a considerable amount of zooming and scrolling.
Ultimately, AM staff feel that perhaps the paper copy that is printed out
might be the most useful one, but they remain uncertain as to how much
on-screen reading users will do.

Returning to the text, FLEISCHHAUER asked viewers to imagine a person who
might be conducting a search in a full-text environment.  With this
scenario, he proceeded to illustrate other features of Personal Librarian
that he considered helpful; for example, it provides the ability to
notice words as one reads.  Clicking the "include" button on the bottom
of the search window pops the words that have been highlighted into the
search.  Thus, a user can refine the search as he or she reads,
re-executing the search and continuing to find things in the quest for
materials.  This software not only contains relevance ranking, Boolean
operators, and truncation, it also permits one to perform word algebra,
so to say, where one puts two or three words in parentheses and links
them with one Boolean operator and then a couple of words in another set
of parentheses and asks for things within so many words of others.

Until they became acquainted recently with some of the work being done in
classics, the AM staff had not realized that a large number of the
projects that involve electronic texts were being done by people with a
profound interest in language and linguistics.  Their search strategies
and thinking are oriented to those fields, as is shown in particular by
the Perseus example.  As amateur historians, the AM staff were thinking
more of searching for concepts and ideas than for particular words.
Obviously, FLEISCHHAUER conceded, searching for concepts and ideas and
searching for words may be two rather closely related things.

While displaying several images, FLEISCHHAUER observed that the Macintosh
prototype built by AM contains a greater diversity of formats.  Echoing a
previous speaker, he said that it was easier to stitch things together in
the Macintosh, though it tended to be a little more anemic in search and
retrieval.  AM, therefore, increasingly has been investigating
sophisticated retrieval engines in the IBM format.

FLEISCHHAUER demonstrated several additional examples of the prototype
interfaces:  One was AM's metaphor for the network future, in which a
kind of reading-room graphic suggests how one would be able to go around
to different materials.  AM contains a large number of photographs in
analog video form worked up from a videodisc, which enable users to make
copies to print or incorporate in digital documents.  A frame-grabber is
built into the system, making it possible to bring an image into a window
and digitize or print it out.

FLEISCHHAUER next demonstrated sound recording, which included texts.
Recycled from a previous project, the collection included sixty 78-rpm
phonograph records of political speeches that were made during and
immediately after World War I.  These constituted approximately three
hours of audio, as AM has digitized it, which occupy 150 megabytes on a
CD.  Thus, they are considerably compressed.  From the catalogue card,
FLEISCHHAUER proceeded to a transcript of a speech with the audio
available and with highlighted text following it as it played.
A photograph has been added and a transcription made.

Considerable value has been added beyond what the Library of Congress
normally would do in cataloguing a sound recording, which raises several
questions for AM concerning where to draw lines about how much value it can
afford to add and at what point, perhaps, this becomes more than AM could
reasonably do or reasonably wish to do.  FLEISCHHAUER also demonstrated
a motion picture.  As FREEMAN had reported earlier, the motion picture
materials have proved the most popular, not surprisingly.  This says more
about the medium, he thought, than about AM's presentation of it.

Because AM's goal was to bring together things that could be used by
historians or by people who were curious about history,
turn-of-the-century footage seemed to represent the most appropriate
collections from the Library of Congress in motion pictures. These were
the very first films made by Thomas Edison's company and some others at
that time.  The particular example illustrated was a Biograph film,
brought in with a frame-grabber into a window.  A single videodisc
contains about fifty titles and pieces of film from that period, all of
New York City.  Taken together, AM believes, they provide an interesting
documentary resource.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Using the frame-grabber in AM * Volume of material processed
and to be processed * Purpose of AM within LC * Cataloguing and the
nature of AM's material * SGML coding and the question of quality versus
quantity *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the question-and-answer period that followed FLEISCHHAUER's
presentation, several clarifications were made.

AM is bringing in motion pictures from a videodisc.  The frame-grabber
devices create a window on a computer screen, which permits users to
digitize a single frame of the movie or one of the photographs.  It
produces a crude, rough-and-ready image that high school students can
incorporate into papers, and that has worked very nicely in this way.

Commenting on FLEISCHHAUER's assertion that AM was looking more at
searching ideas than words, MYLONAS argued that without words an idea
does not exist.  FLEISCHHAUER conceded that he ought to have articulated
his point more clearly.  MYLONAS stated that they were in fact both
talking about the same thing.  By searching for words and by forcing
people to focus on the word, the Perseus Project felt that they would get
them to the idea.  The way one reviews results is tailored more to one
kind of user than another.

Concerning the total volume of material that has been processed in this
way, AM at this point has in retrievable form seven or eight collections,
all of them photographic.  In the Macintosh environment, for example,
there probably are 35,000-40,000 photographs.  The sound recordings
number sixty items.  The broadsides number about 300 items.  There are
500 political cartoons in the form of drawings.  The motion pictures, as
individual items, number sixty to seventy.

AM also has a manuscript collection, the life history portion of one of
the federal project series, which will contain 2,900 individual
documents, all first-person narratives.  AM has in process about 350
African-American pamphlets, or about 12,000 printed pages for the period
1870-1910.  Also in the works are some 4,000 panoramic photographs.  AM
has recycled a fair amount of the work done by LC's Prints and
Photographs Division during the Library's optical disk pilot project in
the 1980s.  For example, a special division of LC has tooled up and
thought through all the ramifications of electronic presentation of
photographs.  Indeed, they are wheeling them out in great barrel loads.
The purpose of AM within the Library, it is hoped, is to catalyze several
of the other special collection divisions which have no particular
experience with, in some cases, mixed feelings about, an activity such as
AM.  Moreover, in many cases the divisions may be characterized as not
only lacking experience in "electronifying" things but also in automated
cataloguing.  MARC cataloguing as practiced in the United States is
heavily weighted toward the description of monograph and serial
materials, but is much thinner when one enters the world of manuscripts
and things that are held in the Library's music collection and other
units.  In response to a comment by LESK, that AM's material is very
heavily photographic, and is so primarily because individual records have
been made for each photograph, FLEISCHHAUER observed that an item-level
catalog record exists, for example, for each photograph in the Detroit
Publishing collection of 25,000 pictures.  In the case of the Federal
Writers Project, for which nearly 3,000 documents exist, representing
information from twenty-six different states, AM with the assistance of
Karen STUART of the Manuscript Division will attempt to find some way not
only to have a collection-level record but perhaps a MARC record for each
state, which will then serve as an umbrella for the 100-200 documents
that come under it.  But that drama remains to be enacted.  The AM staff
is conservative and clings to cataloguing, though of course visitors tout
artificial intelligence and neural networks in a manner that suggests that
perhaps one need not have cataloguing or that much of it could be put aside.

The matter of SGML coding, FLEISCHHAUER conceded, returned the discussion
to the earlier treated question of quality versus quantity in the Library
of Congress.  Of course, text conversion can be done with 100-percent
accuracy, but it means that when one's holdings are as vast as LC's only
a tiny amount will be exposed, whereas permitting lower levels of
accuracy can lead to exposing or sharing larger amounts, but with the
quality correspondingly impaired.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
TWOHIG * A contrary experience concerning electronic options * Volume of
material in the Washington papers and a suggestion of David Packard *
Implications of Packard's suggestion * Transcribing the documents for the
CD-ROM * Accuracy of transcriptions * The CD-ROM edition of the Founding
Fathers documents *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Finding encouragement in a comment of MICHELSON's from the morning
session--that numerous people in the humanities were choosing electronic
options to do their work--Dorothy TWOHIG, editor, The Papers of George
Washington, opened her illustrated talk by noting that her experience
with literary scholars and numerous people in editing was contrary to
MICHELSON's.  TWOHIG emphasized literary scholars' complete ignorance of
the technological options available to them or their reluctance or, in
some cases, their downright hostility toward these options.

After providing an overview of the five Founding Fathers projects
(Jefferson at Princeton, Franklin at Yale, John Adams at the
Massachusetts Historical Society, and Madison down the hall from her at
the University of Virginia), TWOHIG observed that the Washington papers,
like all of the projects, include both sides of the Washington
correspondence and deal with some 135,000 documents to be published with
extensive annotation in eighty to eighty-five volumes, a project that
will not be completed until well into the next century.  Thus, it was
with considerable enthusiasm several years ago that the Washington Papers
Project (WPP) greeted David Packard's suggestion that the papers of the
Founding Fathers could be published easily and inexpensively, and to the
great benefit of American scholarship, via CD-ROM.

In pragmatic terms, funding from the Packard Foundation would expedite
the transcription of thousands of documents waiting to be put on disk in
the WPP offices.  Further, since the costs of collecting, editing, and
converting the Founding Fathers documents into letterpress editions were
running into the millions of dollars, and the considerable staffs
involved in all of these projects were devoting their careers to
producing the work, the Packard Foundation's suggestion had a
revolutionary aspect:  Transcriptions of the entire corpus of the
Founding Fathers papers would be available on CD-ROM to public and
college libraries, even high schools, at a fraction of the cost--
$100-$150 for the annual license fee--to produce a limited university
press run of 1,000 of each volume of the published papers at $45-$150 per
printed volume.  Given the current budget crunch in educational systems
and the corresponding constraints on librarians in smaller institutions
who wish to add these volumes to their collections, producing the
documents on CD-ROM would likely open a greatly expanded audience for the
papers.  TWOHIG stressed, however, that development of the Founding
Fathers CD-ROM is still in its infancy.  Serious software problems remain
to be resolved before the material can be put into readable form.

Funding from the Packard Foundation resulted in a major push to
transcribe the 75,000 or so documents of the Washington papers remaining
to be transcribed onto computer disks.  Slides illustrated several of the
problems encountered, for example, the present inability of CD-ROM to
indicate the cross-outs (deleted material) in eighteenth century
documents.  TWOHIG next described documents from various periods in the
eighteenth century that have been transcribed in chronological order and
delivered to the Packard offices in California, where they are converted
to the CD-ROM, a process that is expected to consume five years to
complete (that is, reckoning from David Packard's suggestion made several
years ago, until about July 1994).  TWOHIG found an encouraging
indication of the project's benefits in the ongoing use made by scholars
of the search functions of the CD-ROM, particularly in reducing the time
spent in manually turning the pages of the Washington papers.

TWOHIG next furnished details concerning the accuracy of transcriptions.
For instance, the insertion of thousands of documents on the CD-ROM
currently does not permit each document to be verified against the
original manuscript several times as in the case of documents that appear
in the published edition.  However, the transcriptions receive a cursory
check for obvious typos, the misspellings of proper names, and other
errors from the WPP CD-ROM editor.  Eventually, all documents that appear
in the electronic version will be checked by project editors.  Although
this process has met with opposition from some of the editors on the
grounds that imperfect work may leave their offices, the advantages in
making this material available as a research tool outweigh  fears about the
misspelling of proper names and other relatively minor editorial matters.

Completion of all five Founding Fathers projects (i.e., retrievability
and searchability of all of the documents by proper names, alternate
spellings, or varieties of subjects) will provide one of the richest
sources of this size for the history of the United States in the latter
part of the eighteenth century.  Further, publication on CD-ROM will
allow editors to include even miMFGRZV, HFXS ZH OZFMWIB ORHGH, MLG
RMXOFWVW RM GSV KIRMGVW ELOFNVH.

RG HVVNH KLHHRYOV GSZG GSV VCGVMHREV ZMMLGZGRLM KILERWVW RM GSV KIRMGVW
ELOFNVH VEVMGFZOOB DROO YV ZWWVW GL GSV XW-ILN VWRGRLM, KVMWRMT
MVTLGRZGRLMH DRGS GSV KFYORHSVIH LU GSV KZKVIH.  ZG GSV NLNVMG, GSV
ULFMWRMT UZGSVIH XW-ILN RH ZXXVHHRYOV LMOB LM GSV RYBXFH, Z XLNKFGVI
WVEVOLKVW LFG LU GSV GSVHZFIFH ORMTFZV TIZVXZV KILQVXG ZMW WVHRTMVW ULI
GSV FHV LU XOZHHRXZO HXSLOZIH.  GSVIV ZIV KVISZKH 400 RYBXFH XLNKFGVIH RM
GSV XLFMGIB, NLHG LU DSRXS ZIV RM FMREVIHRGB XOZHHRXH WVKZIGNVMGH.
FOGRNZGVOB, RG RH ZMGRXRKZGVW GSZG GSV XW-ILN VWRGRLM LU GSV ULFMWRMT
UZGSVIH WLXFNVMGH DROO IFM LM ZMB RYN-XLNKZGRYOV LI NZXRMGLHS XLNKFGVI
DRGS Z XW-ILN WIREV.  MFNVILFH XSZMTVH RM GSV HLUGDZIV DROO ZOHL LXXFI
YVULIV GSV KILQVXG RH XLNKOVGVW.  (VWRGLI'H MLGV: ZM RYBXFH DZH
FMZEZROZYOV GL WVNLMHGIZGV GSV XW-ILN.)

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
WRHXFHHRLM * HVEVIZO ZWWRGRLMZO UVZGFIVH LU DKK XOZIRURVW *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

WRHXFHHRLM ULOOLDRMT GDLSRT'H KIVHVMGZGRLM HVIEVW GL XOZIRUB HVEVIZO
ZWWRGRLMZO UVZGFIVH, RMXOFWRMT (1) GSZG GSV KILQVXG'H KIRNZIB
RMGVOOVXGFZO KILWFXG XLMHRHGH RM GSV VOVXGILMRX GIZMHXIRKGRLM LU GSV
NZGVIRZO; (2) GSZG GSV GVCG GIZMHNRGGVW GL GSV XW-ILN KVLKOV RH MLG
NZIPVW FK; (3) GSZG XZGZOLTRMT ZMW HFYQVXG-RMWVCRMT LU GSV NZGVIRZO
IVNZRM GL YV DLIPVW LFG (GSLFTS ZG GSRH KLRMG NZGVIRZO XZM YV IVGIRVEVW
YB MZNV); ZMW (4) GSZG YVXZFHV ZOO GSV HVZIXSRMT RH WLMV RM GSV SZIWDZIV,
GSV RYBXFH RH WVHRTMVW GL IVZW Z XW-ILN DSRXS XLMGZRMH LMOB HVJFVMGRZO
GVCG UROVH.  GVXSMRXZOOB, RG GSVM YVXLNVH EVIB VZHB GL IVZW GSV NZGVIRZO
LUU ZMW KFG RG LM ZMLGSVI WVERXV.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
OVYILM * LEVIERVD LU GSV SRHGLIB LU GSV QLRMG KILQVXG YVGDVVM ZZZH ZMW
LXOX * HVEVIZO KIZXGRXVH GSV LM-ORMV VMERILMNVMG HSZIVH DRGS GIZWRGRLMZO
KFYORHSRMT LM SZIW XLKB * HVEVIZO GVXSMRXZO ZMW YVSZERLIZO YZIIRVIH GL
VOVXGILMRX KFYORHSRMT * SLD ZZZH ZMW LXOX ZIIREVW ZG GSV HFYQVXG LU
XORMRXZO GIRZOH * ZWEZMGZTVH LU GSV VOVXGILMRX ULINZG ZMW LGSVI UVZGFIVH
LU LQXXG * ZM ROOFHGIZGVW GLFI LU GSV QLFIMZO *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

NZIRZ OVYILM, NZMZTRMT VWRGLI, GSV LMORMV QLFIMZO LU XFIIVMG XORMRXZO
GIRZOH (LQXXG), KIVHVMGVW ZM ROOFHGIZGVW LEVIERVD LU GSV SRHGLIB LU GSV
QLRMG KILQVXG YVGDVVM GSV ZNVIRXZM ZHHLXRZGRLM ULI GSV ZWEZMXVNVMG LU
HXRVMXV (ZZZH) ZMW GSV LMORMV XLNKFGVI ORYIZIB XVMGVI, RMX. (LXOX).  GSV
QLRMG EVMGFIV YVGDVVM ZZZH ZMW LXOX LDVH RGH YVTRMMRMT GL Z
IVLITZMRAZGRLM OZFMXSVW YB GSV MVD XSRVU VCVXFGREV LUURXVI ZG LXOX ZYLFG
GSIVV BVZIH ZTL ZMW XLNYRMVH GSV HGIVMTGSH LU GSVHV GDL WRHKZIZGV
LITZMRAZGRLMH.  RM HSLIG, LQXXG IVKIVHVMGH GSV KILXVHH LU HXSLOZIOB
KFYORHSRMT LM ORMV.

OVYILM MVCG WRHXFHHVW HVEVIZO KIZXGRXVH GSV LM-ORMV VMERILMNVMG HSZIVH
DRGS GIZWRGRLMZO KFYORHSRMT LM SZIW XLKB--ULI VCZNKOV, KVVI IVERVD LU
NZMFHXIRKGH--GSZG ZIV SRTSOB RNKLIGZMG RM GSV ZXZWVNRX DLIOW.  OVYILM
MLGVW RM KZIGRXFOZI GSV RNKORXZGRLMH LU XRGZGRLM XLFMGH ULI GVMFIV
XLNNRGGVVH ZMW TIZMGH XLNNRGGVVH.  RM GSV GIZWRGRLMZO SZIW-XLKB
VMERILMNVMG, XRGZGRLM XLFMGH ZIV IVZWROB WVNLMHGIZYOV, DSVIVZH GSV
LM-ORMV VMERILMNVMG IVKIVHVMGH ZM VGSVIVZO NVWRFN GL NLHG ZXZWVNRXH.

OVYILM IVNZIPVW HVEVIZO GVXSMRXZO ZMW YVSZERLIZO YZIIRVIH GL VOVXGILMRX
KFYORHSRMT, ULI RMHGZMXV, GSV KILYOVNH RM GIZMHNRHHRLM XIVZGVW YB HKVXRZO
XSZIZXGVIH LI YB XLNKOVC TIZKSRXH ZMW SZOUGLMVH.  RM ZWWRGRLM, HSV MLGVW
VXLMLNRX ORNRGZGRLMH HFXS ZH GSV HGLIZTV XLHGH LU NZRMGZRMRMT YZXP RHHFVH
ZMW NZIPVG LI ZFWRVMXV VWFXZGRLM.

NZMFHXIRKGH XZMMLG YV FKOLZWVW GL LQXXG, OVYILM VCKOZRMVW, YVXZFHV RG RH
MLG Z YFOOVGRM YLZIW LI V-NZRO, ULINH LU VOVXGILMRX GIZMHNRHHRLM LU
RMULINZGRLM GSZG SZEV XIVZGVW ZM ZNYRVMXV XOLFWRMT KVLKOV'H FMWVIHGZMWRMT
LU DSZG GSV QLFIMZO RH ZGGVNKGRMT GL WL.  LQXXG, DSRXS KFYORHSVH
KVVI-IVERVDVW NVWRXZO ZIGRXOVH WVZORMT DRGS GSV HFYQVXG LU XORMRXZO
GIRZOH, RMXOFWVH GVCG, GZYFOZI NZGVIRZO, ZMW TIZKSRXH, ZOGSLFTS ZG GSRH
GRNV RG XZM GIZMHNRG LMOB ORMV ROOFHGIZGRLMH.

MVCG, OVYILM WVHXIRYVW SLD ZZZH ZMW LXOX ZIIREVW ZG GSV HFYQVXG LU
XORMRXZO GIRZOH:  RG RH 1) Z SRTSOB HGZGRHGRXZO WRHXRKORMV GSZG 2) WLVH
MLG IVJFRIV SZOUGLMVH YFG XZM HZGRHUB GSV MVVWH LU RGH ZFWRVMXV DRGS ORMV
ROOFHGIZGRLMH ZMW TIZKSRX NZGVIRZO, ZMW 3) GSVIV RH Z MVVW ULI GSV HKVVWB
WRHHVNRMZGRLM LU SRTS-JFZORGB IVHVZIXS IVHFOGH.  XORMRXZO GIRZOH ZIV
IVHVZIXS ZXGRERGRVH GSZG RMELOEV GSV ZWNRMRHGIZGRLM LU Z GVHG GIVZGNVMG
GL HLNV VCKVIRNVMGZO FMRG RM LIWVI GL GVHG RGH FHVUFOMVHH YVULIV RG RH
NZWV ZEZROZYOV GL GSV TVMVIZO KLKFOZGRLM.  OVYILM KILXVVWVW GL TREV
ZWWRGRLMZO RMULINZGRLM LM LQXXG XLMXVIMRMT RGH VWRGLI-RM-XSRVU, VWRGLIRZO
YLZIW, VWRGLIRZO XLMGVMG, ZMW GSV GBKVH LU ZIGRXOVH RG KFYORHSVH
(RMXOFWRMT KVVI-IVERVDVW IVHVZIXS IVKLIGH ZMW IVERVDH), ZH DVOO ZH
UVZGFIVH HSZIVW YB LGSVI GIZWRGRLMZO SZIW-XLKB QLFIMZOH.

ZNLMT GSV ZWEZMGZTVH LU GSV VOVXGILMRX ULINZG ZIV UZHGVI WRHHVNRMZGRLM LU
RMULINZGRLM, RMXOFWRMT IZD WZGZ, ZMW GSV ZYHVMXV LU HKZXV XLMHGIZRMGH
YVXZFHV KZTVH WL MLG VCRHG.  (GSRH OZGGVI UZXG XIVZGVH ZM RMGVIVHGRMT
HRGFZGRLM DSVM RG XLNVH GL XRGZGRLMH.)  MLI ZIV GSVIV ZMB RHHFVH.  ZZZH'H
XZKZXRGB GL WLDMOLZW NZGVIRZOH WRIVXGOB UILN GSV QLFIMZO GL Z
HFYHXIRYVI'H KIRMGVI, SZIW WIREV, LI UOLKKB WRHP SVOKH VMHFIV SRTSOB
ZXXFIZGV GIZMHXIRKGRLM.  LGSVI UVZGFIVH LU LQXXG RMXOFWV LM-HXIVVM ZOVIGH
GSZG ZOOLD ORMPZTV LU HFYHVJFVMGOB KFYORHSVW WLXFNVMGH GL GSV LIRTRMZO
WLXFNVMGH; LM-ORMV HVZIXSRMT YB HFYQVXG, ZFGSLI, GRGOV, VGX.; RMWVCRMT LU
VEVIB HRMTOV DLIW GSZG ZKKVZIH RM ZM ZIGRXOV; ERVDRMT ZXXVHH GL ZM
ZIGRXOV YB XLNKLMVMG (ZYHGIZXG, UFOO GVCG, LI TIZKSH); MFNYVIVW
KZIZTIZKSH GL IVKOZXV KZTV XLFMGH; KFYORXZGRLM RM HXRVMXV VEVIB GSRIGB
WZBH LU RMWVCRMT LU ZOO ZIGRXOVH KFYORHSVW RM GSV QLFIMZO;
GBKVHVG-JFZORGB HXIVVMH; ZMW SBKVIGVCG ORMPH GSZG VMZYOV HFYHXIRYVIH GL
YIRMT FK NVWORMV ZYHGIZXGH WRIVXGOB DRGSLFG OVZERMT GSV QLFIMZO.

ZUGVI WVGZRORMT GSV GDL KIRNZIB DZBH GL TZRM ZXXVHH GL GSV QLFIMZO,
GSILFTS GSV LXOX MVGDLIP ZMW XLNKFHVIE RU LMV WVHRIVH TIZKSRXH LI GSILFTS
GSV RMGVIMVG RU QFHG ZM ZHXRR UROV RH WVHRIVW, OVYILM ROOFHGIZGVW GSV
HKVVWB VWRGLIRZO KILXVHH ZMW GSV XLWRMT LU GSV WLXFNVMG FHRMT HTNO GZTH
ZUGVI RG SZH YVVM ZXXVKGVW ULI KFYORXZGRLM.  HSV ZOHL TZEV ZM ROOFHGIZGVW
GLFI LU GSV QLFIMZO, RGH HVZIXS-ZMW-IVGIRVEZO XZKZYRORGRVH RM KZIGRXFOZI,
YFG ZOHL RMXOFWRMT KILYOVNH ZHHLXRZGVW DRGS HXZMMRMT RM ROOFHGIZGRLMH,
ZMW GSV RNKLIGZMXV LU LM-HXIVVM ZOVIGH GL GSV NVWRXZO KILUVHHRLM IV
IVGIZXGRLMH LI XLIIVXGRLMH, LI NLIV UIVJFVMGOB, VWRGLIRZOH, OVGGVIH GL
GSV VWRGLIH, LI ULOOLD-FK IVKLIGH.  HSV XOLHVW YB RMERGRMT GSV ZFWRVMXV
GL QLRM ZZZH LM 1 QFOB, DSVM LQXXG DZH HXSVWFOVW GL TL LM-ORMV.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
WRHXFHHRLM * ZWWRGRLMZO UVZGFIVH LU LQXXG *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

RM GSV OVMTGSB WRHXFHHRLM GSZG ULOOLDVW OVYILM'H KIVHVMGZGRLM, GSVHV
KLRMGH VNVITVW:

     * GSV HTNO GVCG XZM YV GZROLIVW ZH FHVIH DRHS.

     * ZOO GSVHV ZIGRXOVH SZEV Z UZRIOB HRNKOV WLXFNVMG WVURMRGRLM.

     * WLXFNVMG-GBKV WVURMRGRLMH (WGWH) DVIV WVEVOLKVW ZMW TREVM GL LQXXG
     ULI XLWRMT.

     * ML ZIGRXOVH DROO YV IVNLEVW UILN GSV QLFIMZO.  (YVXZFHV GSVIV ZIV
     ML YZXP RHHFVH, GSVIV ZIV ML OLHG RHHFVH VRGSVI.  LMXV Z HFYHXIRYVI
     OLTH LMGL GSV QLFIMZO SV LI HSV SZH ZXXVHH MLG LMOB GL GSV XFIIVMGOB
     KFYORHSVW NZGVIRZOH, YFG IVGILHKVXGREVOB GL VEVIBGSRMT GSZG SZH YVVM
     KFYORHSVW RM RG.  GSFH GSV GZYOV LU XLMGVMGH TILDH YRTTVI.  GSV WZGV
     LU KFYORXZGRLM HVIEVH GL WRHGRMTFRHS YVGDVVM XFIIVMGOB KFYORHSVW
     NZGVIRZOH ZMW LOWVI NZGVIRZOH.)

     * GSV KIRXRMT HBHGVN ULI GSV QLFIMZO IVHVNYOVH GSZG ULI NLHG NVWRXZO
     QLFIMZOH:  ULI 1992, $95 ULI Z BVZI, KOFH GVOVXLNNFMRXZGRLMH XSZITVH
     (GSVIV ZIV ML XLMMVXG GRNV XSZITVH);    ULI 1993, $110 ULI GSV
     VMGRIV BVZI ULI HRMTOV FHVIH, GSLFTS GSV QLFIMZO XZM YV KFG LM Z
     OLXZO ZIVZ MVGDLIP (OZM).  SLDVEVI, LMOB LMV KVIHLM XZM ZXXVHH GSV
     QLFIMZO ZG Z GRNV.  HRGV ORXVMHVH NZB XLNV RM GSV UFGFIV.

     * ZZZH RH DLIPRMT XOLHVOB DRGS XLOOVZTFVH ZG LXOX GL WRHKOZB
     NZGSVNZGRXZO VJFZGRLMH LM HXIVVM.

     * DRGSLFG XLNKILNRHRMT ZMB HGVKH RM GSV VWRGLIRZO KILXVHH, GSV
     GVXSMLOLTB SZH IVWFXVW GSV GRNV OZT YVGDVVM DSVM Z NZMFHXIRKG RH
     LIRTRMZOOB HFYNRGGVW ZMW GSV GRNV RG RH ZXXVKGVW; GSV IVERVD KILXVHH
     WLVH MLG WRUUVI TIVZGOB UILN GSV HGZMWZIW HRC-GL-VRTSG DVVPH
     VNKOLBVW YB NZMB LU GSV SZIW-XLKB QLFIMZOH.  GSV KILXVHH HGROO
     WVKVMWH LM KVLKOV.

     * ZH UZI ZH Z KIVHVIEZGRLM XLKB RH XLMXVIMVW, ZIGRXOVH DROO YV
     NZRMGZRMVW LM GSV XLNKFGVI KVINZMVMGOB ZMW HFYHXIRYVIH, ZH KZIG LU
     GSVRI HFYHXIRKGRLM, DROO IVXVREV Z NRXILURXSV-JFZORGB ZIXSREZO XLKB
     LU VEVIBGSRMT KFYORHSVW WFIRMT GSZG BVZI; RM ZWWRGRLM, IVKIRMGH XZM
     YV KFIXSZHVW RM NFXS GSV HZNV DZB ZH RM Z SZIW-XLKB VMERILMNVMG.
     SZIW XLKRVH ZIV KIVKZIVW YFG ZIV MLG GSV KIRNZIB NVWRFN ULI GSV
     WRHHVNRMZGRLM LU GSV RMULINZGRLM.

     * YVXZFHV LQXXG RH MLG BVG LM ORMV, RG RH WRUURXFOG GL PMLD SLD NZMB
     KVLKOV DLFOW HRNKOB YILDHV GSILFTS GSV QLFIMZO LM GSV HXIVVM ZH
     LKKLHVW GL WLDMOLZWRMT GSV DSLOV GSRMT ZMW KIRMGRMT RG LFG; Z NRC LU
     YLGS GBKVH LU FHVIH ORPVOB DROO IVHFOG.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
KVIHLMRFH * WVEVOLKNVMGH RM GVXSMLOLTB LEVI GSV KZHG WVXZWV * GSV XOZHH
KILQVXG * ZWEZMGZTVH ULI GVXSMLOLTB ZMW ULI GSV XOZHH KILQVXG *
WVEVOLKRMT Z MVGDLIP ZKKORXZGRLM ZM FMWVIOBRMT ZHHFNKGRLM LU GSV KILQVXG
* WVGZROH LU GSV HXZMMRMT KILXVHH * KIRMG-LM-WVNZMW XLKRVH LU YLLPH *
UFGFIV KOZMH RMXOFWV WVEVOLKNVMG LU Z YILDHRMT GLLO *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

OBMMV KVIHLMRFH, ZHHRHGZMG WRIVXGLI, XLIMVOO RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTRVH ULI
HXSLOZIOB RMULINZGRLM HVIERXVH, XLIMVOO FMREVIHRGB, URIHG XLNNVMGVW LM
GSV GIVNVMWLFH RNKZXG GSZG WVEVOLKNVMGH RM GVXSMLOLTB LEVI GSV KZHG GVM
BVZIH--MVGDLIPRMT, RM KZIGRXFOZI--SZEV SZW LM GSV DZB RMULINZGRLM RH
SZMWOVW, ZMW SLD, RM SVI LDM XZHV, GSVHV WVEVOLKNVMGH SZEV XLFMGVIYZOZMXVW
XLIMVOO'H IVOZGREV TVLTIZKSRXZO RHLOZGRLM.  LGSVI HRTMRURXZMG GVXSMLOLTRVH
RMXOFWV HXZMMVIH, DSRXS ZIV NFXS NLIV HLKSRHGRXZGVW GSZM GSVB DVIV GVM BVZIH
ZTL; NZHH HGLIZTV ZMW GSV WIZNZGRX HZERMTH GSZG IVHFOG UILN RG RM GVINH LU
YLGS HKZXV ZMW NLMVB IVOZGREV GL GDVMGB LI GSRIGB BVZIH ZTL; MVD ZMW
RNKILEVW KIRMGRMT GVXSMLOLTRVH, DSRXS SZEV TIVZGOB ZUUVXGVW GSV WRHGIRYFGRLM
LU RMULINZGRLM; ZMW, LU XLFIHV, WRTRGZO GVXSMLOLTRVH, DSLHV ZKKORXZYRORGB GL
ORYIZIB KIVHVIEZGRLM IVNZRMH ZG RHHFV.

TREVM GSZG XLMGVCG, KVIHLMRFH WVHXIRYVW GSV XLOOVTV ORYIZIB ZXXVHH ZMW
HGLIZTV HBHGVN (XOZHH) KILQVXG, Z ORYIZIB KIVHVIEZGRLM KILQVXG,
KIRNZIROB, ZMW DSZG SZH YVVM ZXXLNKORHSVW.  WRIVXGOB UFMWVW YB GSV
XLNNRHHRLM LM KIVHVIEZGRLM ZMW ZXXVHH ZMW YB GSV CVILC XLIKLIZGRLM, DSRXS
SZH KILERWVW Z HRTMRURXZMG ZNLFMG LU SZIWDZIV, GSV XOZHH KILQVXG SZH YVVM
DLIPRMT DRGS Z WVEVOLKNVMG GVZN ZG CVILC GL WVEVOLK Z HLUGDZIV
ZKKORXZGRLM GZROLIVW GL ORYIZIB KIVHVIEZGRLM IVJFRIVNVMGH.  DRGSRM
XLIMVOO, KZIGRXRKZMGH RM GSV KILQVXG SZEV YVVM DLIPRMT QLRMGOB DRGS YLGS
ORYIZIB ZMW RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTRVH.  GSV ULXFH LU GSV KILQVXG SZH YVVM
LM IVULINZGGRMT ZMW HZERMT YLLPH GSZG ZIV RM YIRGGOV XLMWRGRLM.
KVIHLMRFH HSLDVW DLIPHSLK KZIGRXRKZMGH Z YIRGGOV YLLP, ZMW WVHXIRYVW SLD
HFXS YLLPH DVIV GSV IVHFOG LU WVEVOLKNVMGH RM KZKVINZPRMT ZILFMW GSV
YVTRMMRMT LU GSV RMWFHGIRZO IVELOFGRLM.  GSV KZKVINZPRMT KILXVHH DZH
XSZMTVW HL GSZG Z HRTMRURXZMG ZNLFMG LU ZXRW DZH RMGILWFXVW RMGL GSV
ZXGFZO KZKVI RGHVOU, DSRXS WVGVIRLIZGVH ZH RG HRGH LM ORYIZIB HSVOEVH.

LMV LU GSV ZWEZMGZTVH ULI GVXSMLOLTB ZMW ULI GSV XOZHH KILQVXG RH GSZG
GSV RMULINZGRLM RM YIRGGOV YLLPH RH NLHGOB LFG LU XLKBIRTSG ZMW GSFH
LUUVIH ZM LKKLIGFMRGB GL DLIP DRGS NZGVIRZO GSZG IVJFRIVH ORYIZIB
KIVHVIEZGRLM, ZMW GL XIVZGV ZMW DLIP LM ZM RMUIZHGIFXGFIV GL HZEV GSV
NZGVIRZO.  ZXPMLDOVWTRMT GSV UZNRORZIRGB LU GSLHV DLIPRMT RM KIVHVIEZGRLM
DRGS GSRH RMULINZGRLM, KVIHLMRFH MLGVW GSZG HVEVIZO GSRMTH ZIV YVRMT
WLMV:  GSV KIRNZIB KIVHVIEZGRLM GVXSMLOLTB FHVW GLWZB RH KSLGLXLKBRMT LU
YIRGGOV NZGVIRZO.  HZERMT GSV RMGVOOVXGFZO XLMGVMG LU GSV NZGVIRZO RH GSV
NZRM TLZO.  DRGS NRXILURON XLKB, GSV RMGVOOVXGFZO XLMGVMG RH KIVHVIEVW LM
GSV ZHHFNKGRLM GSZG RM GSV UFGFIV GSV RNZTV XZM YV IVULINZGGVW RM ZMB
LGSVI DZB GSZG GSVM VCRHGH.

ZM FMWVIOBRMT ZHHFNKGRLM LU GSV XOZHH KILQVXG UILN GSV YVTRMMRMT DZH
GSZG RG DLFOW WVEVOLK Z MVGDLIP ZKKORXZGRLM.  KILQVXG HGZUU HXZM YLLPH
ZG Z DLIPHGZGRLM OLXZGVW RM GSV ORYIZIB, MVZI GSV YIRGGOV NZGVIRZO.
ZM RNZTV-HVIEVI URORMT HBHGVN RH OLXZGVW ZG Z WRHGZMXV UILN GSZG
DLIPHGZGRLM, ZMW Z KIRMGVI RH OLXZGVW RM ZMLGSVI YFROWRMT.  ZOO LU GSV
NZGVIRZOH WRTRGRAVW ZMW HGLIVW LM GSV RNZTV-URORMT HBHGVN ZIV XZGZOLTVW
RM GSV LM-ORMV XZGZOLTFV.  RM UZXG, Z IVXLIW ULI VZXS LU GSVHV VOVXGILMRX
YLLPH RH HGLIVW RM GSV IORM WZGZYZHV HL GSZG Z IVXLIW VCRHGH LU DSZG RH
RM GSV WRTRGZO ORYIZIB GSILFTSLFG HGZMWZIW XZGZOLTFV KILXVWFIVH.  RM GSV
UFGFIV, IVHVZIXSVIH DLIPRMT UILN GSVRI LDM DLIPHGZGRLMH RM GSVRI LUURXVH,
LI GSVRI MVGDLIPH, DROO SZEV ZXXVHH--DSVIVEVI GSVB NRTSG YV--GSILFTS Z
IVJFVHG HVIEVI YVRMT YFROG RMGL GSV MVD WRTRGZO ORYIZIB.  Z HVXLMW
ZHHFNKGRLM RH GSZG GSV KIVUVIIVW NVZMH LU URMWRMT GSV NZGVIRZO DROO YV YB
OLLPRMT GSILFTS Z XZGZOLTFV.  KVIHLMRFH WVHXIRYVW GSV HXZMMRMT KILXVHH,
DSRXS FHVH Z KILGLGBKV HXZMMVI YVRMT WVEVOLKVW YB CVILC ZMW DSRXS HXZMH Z
EVIB SRTS IVHLOFGRLM RNZTV ZG TIVZG HKVVW.  ZMLGSVI HRTMRURXZMG UVZGFIV,
YVXZFHV GSRH RH Z KIVHVIEZGRLM ZKKORXZGRLM, RH GSV KOZXRMT LU GSV KZTVH
GSZG UZOO ZKZIG LMV ULI LMV LM GSV KOZGVM.  LIWRMZIROB, Z HXZMMVI XLFOW
YV FHVW DRGS HLNV HLIG LU Z WLXFNVMG UVVWVI, YFG YVXZFHV LU GSRH
ZKKORXZGRLM GSZG RH MLG UVZHRYOV.  UFIGSVI, YVXZFHV XOZHH RH Z
KIVHVIEZGRLM ZKKORXZGRLM, ZUGVI GSV KZKVI IVKOZXVNVMG RH NZWV GSVIV, Z
EVIB XZIVUFO JFZORGB XLMGILO XSVXP RH KVIULINVW.  ZM LIRTRMZO YLLP RH
XLNKZIVW GL GSV KIRMGVW XLKB ZMW EVIRURXZGRLM RH NZWV, YVULIV KILXVVWRMT,
GSZG ZOO LU GSV RNZTV, ZOO LU GSV RMULINZGRLM, SZH YVVM XZKGFIVW.  GSVM,
Z MVD ORYIZIB YLLP RH KILWFXVW:  GSV KIRMGVW RNZTVH ZIV IVYLFMW YB Z
XLNNVIXRZO YRMWVI ZMW Z MVD YLLP RH IVGFIMVW GL GSV HSVOU.
HRTMRURXZMGOB, GSV YLLPH IVGFIMVW GL GSV ORYIZIB HSVOEVH ZIV YVZFGRUFO
ZMW FHVUFO IVKOZXVNVMGH LM ZXRW-UIVV KZKVI GSZG HSLFOW OZHG Z OLMT GRNV,
RM VUUVXG, GSV VJFREZOVMG LU KIVHVIEZGRLM KSLGLXLKRVH.  GSFH, GSV KILQVXG
SZH Z ORYIZIB LU WRTRGZO YLLPH.  RM VHHVMXV, XOZHH RH HXZMMRMT ZMW
HGLIRMT YLLPH ZH 600 WLG-KVI-RMXS YRG-NZKKVW RNZTVH, XLNKIVHHVW FHRMT
TILFK 4 XXRGG (R.V., GSV UIVMXS ZXILMBN ULI RMGVIMZGRLMZO XLMHFOGZGREV
XLNNRGGVV ULI GVOVTIZKS ZMW GVOVKSLMV) XLNKIVHHRLM.  GSVB ZIV HGLIVW ZH
GRUU UROVH LM ZM LKGRXZO URORMT HBHGVN GSZG RH XLNKLHVW LU Z WZGZYZHV
FHVW ULI HVZIXSRMT ZMW OLXZGRMT GSV YLLPH ZMW ZM LKGRXZO QFPVYLC GSZG
HGLIVH 64 GDVOEV-RMXS KOZGGVIH.  Z EVIB-SRTS-IVHLOFGRLM KIRMGVW XLKB LU
GSVHV YLLPH ZG 600 WLGH KVI RMXS RH XIVZGVW, FHRMT Z CVILC WLXFGVXS
KIRMGVI GL NZPV GSV KZKVI IVKOZXVNVMGH LM ZXRW-UIVV KZKVI.

KVIHLMRFH NZRMGZRMVW GSZG GSV XOZHH KILQVXG KIVHVMGH ZM LKKLIGFMRGB GL
RMGILWFXV KVLKOV GL YLLPH ZH WRTRGZO RNZTVH YB FHRMT Z KZKVI NVWRFN.
YLLPH ZIV IVGFIMVW GL GSV HSVOEVH DSROV KVLKOV ZIV ZOHL TREVM GSV ZYRORGB
GL KIRMG LM WVNZMW--GL NZPV GSVRI LDM XLKRVH LU YLLPH.  (KVIHLMRFH
WRHGIRYFGVW XLKRVH LU ZM VMTRMVVIRMT QLFIMZO KFYORHSVW YB VMTRMVVIRMT
HGFWVMGH ZG XLIMVOO ZILFMW 1900 ZH ZM VCZNKOV LU DSZG Z KIRMG-LM-WVNZMW
XLKB LU NZGVIRZO NRTSG YV ORPV.  GSRH EVIB XSVZK XLKB DLFOW YV ZEZROZYOV
GL KVLKOV GL FHV ULI GSVRI LDM IVHVZIXS KFIKLHVH ZMW DLFOW YIRWTV GSV TZK
YVGDVVM ZM VOVXGILMRX DLIP ZMW GSV KZKVI GSZG IVZWVIH ORPV GL SZEV.)
KVIHLMRFH GSVM ZGGVNKGVW GL ROOFHGIZGV Z EVIB VZIOB KILGLGBKV LU
MVGDLIPVW ZXXVHH GL GSRH WRTRGZO ORYIZIB.  CVILC XLIKLIZGRLM SZH
WVEVOLKVW Z KILGLGBKV LU Z ERVD HGZGRLM GSZG XZM HVMW RNZTVH ZXILHH GSV
MVGDLIP GL YV ERVDVW.

GSV KZIGRXFOZI ORYIZIB YILFTSG WLDM ULI WVNLMHGIZGRLM XLMGZRMVW GDL
NZGSVNZGRXH YLLPH.  XOZHH RH WVEVOLKRMT ZMW DROO HKVMW GSV MVCG BVZI
WVEVOLKRMT ZM ZKKORXZGRLM GSZG ZOOLDH KVLKOV ZG DLIPHGZGRLMH GL YILDHV
GSV YLLPH.  GSFH, XOZHH RH WVEVOLKRMT Z YILDHRMT GLLO, LM GSV ZHHFNKGRLM
GSZG FHVIH WL MLG DZMG GL IVZW ZM VMGRIV YLLP UILN Z DLIPHGZGRLM, YFG
DLFOW KIVUVI GL YV ZYOV GL OLLP GSILFTS ZMW WVXRWV RU GSVB DLFOW ORPV GL
SZEV Z KIRMGVW XLKB LU RG.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
WRHXFHHRLM * IV IVGIRVEZO HLUGDZIV * "WRTRGZO UROV XLKBIRTSG" * HXZMMRMT
IZGV WFIRMT KILWFXGRLM * ZFGLHVTNVMGZGRLM * XIRGVIRZ VNKOLBVW RM
HVOVXGRMT YLLPH ULI HXZMMRMT * XLNKIVHHRLM ZMW WVXLNKIVHHRLM LU RNZTVH *
LXI MLG KIVXOFWVW *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

WFIRMT GSV JFVHGRLM-ZMW-ZMHDVI KVIRLW GSZG ULOOLDVW SVI KIVHVMGZGRLM,
KVIHLMRFH NZWV GSVHV ZWWRGRLMZO KLRMGH:

     * IV IVGIRVEZO HLUGDZIV, XLIMVOO RH WVEVOLKRMT Z FMRC-YZHVW HVIEVI
     ZH DVOO ZH XORVMGH ULI GSV HVIEVI GSZG HFKKLIG NFOGRKOV KOZGULINH
     (NZXRMGLHS, RYN ZMW HFM DLIPHGZGRLMH), RM GSV SLKV GSZG KVLKOV UILN
     ZMB LU GSLHV KOZGULINH DROO IVGIRVEV YLLPH; Z UFIGSVI LKVIZGRMT
     ZHHFNKGRLM RH GSZG HGZMWZIW RMGVIUZXVH DROO YV FHVW ZH NFXS ZH
     KLHHRYOV, DSVIV HGZMWZIWH XZM YV KFG RM KOZXV, YVXZFHV XOZHH
     XLMHRWVIH GSRH IVGIRVEZO HLUGDZIV Z ORYIZIB ZKKORXZGRLM ZMW DLFOW
     ORPV GL YV ZYOV GL OLLP ZG NZGVIRZO MLG LMOB ZG XLIMVOO YFG ZG LGSVI
     RMHGRGFGRLMH.

     * GSV KSIZHV "WRTRGZO UROV XLKBIRTSG YB XLIMVOO FMREVIHRGB" DZH
     ZWWVW ZG GSV ZWERXV LU XLIMVOO'H OVTZO HGZUU DRGS GSV XZEVZG GSZG RG
     KILYZYOB DLFOW MLG SLOW FK RM XLFIG.  XLIMVOO WLVH MLG DZMG KVLKOV
     GL XLKB RGH YLLPH ZMW HVOO GSVN YFG DLFOW ORPV GL PVVK GSVN
     ZEZROZYOV ULI FHV RM Z ORYIZIB VMERILMNVMG ULI ORYIZIB KFIKLHVH.

     * RM KILWFXGRLM GSV HXZMMVI XZM HXZM ZYLFG 300 KZTVH KVI SLFI,
     XZKGFIRMT 600 WLGH KVI RMXS.

     * GSV CVILC HLUGDZIV SZH UROGVIH GL HXZM SZOUGLMV NZGVIRZO ZMW ZELRW
     GSV NLRIV KZGGVIMH GSZG LXXFI DSVM SZOUGLMV NZGVIRZO RH HXZMMVW.
     CVILC SZH YVVM DLIPRMT LM SZIWDZIV ZMW HLUGDZIV GSZG DLFOW VMZYOV
     GSV HXZMMVI RGHVOU GL IVXLTMRAV GSRH HRGFZGRLM ZMW WVZO DRGS RG
     ZKKILKIRZGVOB--Z PRMW LU ZFGLHVTNVMGZGRLM GSZG DLFOW VMZYOV GSV
     HXZMMVI GL SZMWOV SZOUGLMV NZGVIRZO ZH DVOO ZH GVCG LM Z HRMTOV KZTV.

     * GSV YLLPH HFYQVXGVW GL GSV VOZYLIZGV KILXVHH WVHXIRYVW ZYLEV DVIV
     HVOVXGVW YVXZFHV XOZHH RH Z KIVHVIEZGRLM KILQVXG, DRGS GSV URIHG 500
     YLLPH HVOVXGVW XLNRMT UILN XLIMVOO'H NZGSVNZGRXH XLOOVXGRLM, YVXZFHV
     GSVB DVIV HGROO YVRMT SVZEROB FHVW ZMW YVXZFHV, ZOGSLFTS GSVB DVIV
     RM MVVW LU KIVHVIEZGRLM, GSV NZGSVNZGRXH ORYIZIB ZMW GSV NZGSVNZGRXH
     UZXFOGB DVIV FMXLNULIGZYOV SZERMT GSVN NRXILURONVW.  (GSVB DZMGVW Z
     KIRMGVW XLKB.)  GSFH, GSVHV YLLPH YVXZNV Z OLTRXZO XSLRXV ULI GSRH
     KILQVXG.  LGSVI YLLPH DVIV XSLHVM YB GSV KILQVXG'H HVOVXGRLM XLNNRGGVVH
     ULI VCKVIRNVMGH DRGS GSV GVXSMLOLTB, ZH DVOO ZH GL NVVG Z WVNZMW LI MVVW.

     * RNZTVH DROO YV WVXLNKIVHHVW YVULIV GSVB ZIV HVMG LEVI GSV ORMV; ZG
     GSRH GRNV GSVB ZIV XLNKIVHHVW ZMW HVMG GL GSV RNZTV URORMT HBHGVN
     ZMW GSVM HVMG GL GSV KIRMGVI ZH XLNKIVHHVW RNZTVH; GSVB ZIV IVGFIMVW
     GL GSV DLIPHGZGRLM ZH XLNKIVHHVW 600-WKR RNZTVH ZMW GSV DLIPHGZGRLM
     WVXLNKIVHHVH ZMW HXZOVH GSVN ULI WRHKOZB--ZM RMVUURXRVMG DZB GL
     ZXXVHH GSV NZGVIRZO GSLFTS RG DLIPH JFRGV DVOO ULI KIRMGRMT ZMW
     LGSVI KFIKLHVH.

     * XOZHH RH ZOHL WVXLNKIVHHRMT LM NZXRMGLHS ZMW RYN, Z HOLD KILXVHH
     IRTSG MLD.  VEVMGFZOOB, XLNKIVHHRLM ZMW WVXLNKIVHHRLM DROO GZPV
     KOZXV LM ZM RNZTV XLMEVIHRLM HVIEVI.  GIZWV-LUUH DROO YV NZWV, YZHVW
     LM UFGFIV KVIULINZMXV GVHGRMT, XLMXVIMRMT DSVIV GSV UROV RH
     XLNKIVHHVW ZMW DSZG IVHLOFGRLM RNZTV RH HVMG.

     * LXI SZH MLG YVVM KIVXOFWVW; RNZTVH ZIV YVRMT HGLIVW GSZG SZEV YVVM
     HXZMMVW ZG Z SRTS IVHLOFGRLM, DSRXS KIVHFNZYOB DLFOW HFRG GSVN DVOO
     GL ZM LXI KILXVHH.  YVXZFHV GSV NZGVIRZO YVRMT HXZMMVW RH ZYLFG 100
     BVZIH LOW ZMW DZH KIRMGVW DRGS OVHH-GSZM-RWVZO GVXSMLOLTRVH, EVIB
     VZIOB ZMW KIVORNRMZIB GVHGH SZEV MLG KILWFXVW TLLW IVHFOGH.  YFG GSV
     KILQVXG RH XZKGFIRMT ZM RNZTV GSZG RH LU HFUURXRVMG IVHLOFGRLM GL YV
     HFYQVXGVW GL LXI RM GSV UFGFIV.  NLIVLEVI, GSV HBHGVN ZIXSRGVXGFIV
     ZMW GSV HBHGVN KOZM SZEV Z OLTRXZO KOZXV GL HGLIV ZM LXI RNZTV RU RG
     SZH YVVM XZKGFIVW.  YFG GSZG RH MLG YVRMT WLMV MLD.

                                 ******

HVHHRLM RRR.  WRHGIRYFGRLM, MVGDLIPH, ZMW MVGDLIPRMT:  LKGRLMH ULI
WRHHVNRMZGRLM

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
ARXS * RHHFVH KVIGZRMRMT GL XW-ILNH * LKGRLMH ULI KFYORHSRMT RM XW-ILN *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

ILYVIG ARXS, HKVXRZO ZHHRHGZMG GL GSV ZHHLXRZGV ORYIZIRZM ULI HKVXRZO
KILQVXGH, ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH, ZMW NLWVIZGLI LU GSRH HVHHRLM, URIHG MLGVW
GSV YOVHHVW YFG HLNVDSZG ZDPDZIW XRIXFNHGZMXV LU SZERMT ULFI EVIB
WRHGRMTFRHSVW KVLKOV IVKIVHVMGRMT MVGDLIPH ZMW MVGDLIPRMT LI ZG OVZHG
OVZMRMT RM GSZG WRIVXGRLM, DSROV OZXPRMT ZMBLMV GL HKVZP UILN GSV
HGILMTVHG KLHHRYOV YZXPTILFMW RM XW-ILNH.  ARXS VCKIVHHVW GSV SLKV GSZG
NVNYVIH LU GSV ZFWRVMXV DLFOW QLRM GSV WRHXFHHRLM.  SV HGIVHHVW GSV
HFYGRGOV LU GSRH KZIGRXFOZI HVHHRLM, "LKGRLMH ULI WRHHVNRMZGRLM," ZMW,
XLMXVIMRMT XW-ILNH, GSV RNKLIGZMXV LU WVGVINRMRMT DSVM RG DLFOW YV DRHV
GL XLMHRWVI WRHHVNRMZGRLM RM XW-ILN EVIHFH MVGDLIPH.  Z HSLKKRMT ORHG LU
RHHFVH KVIGZRMRMT GL XW-ILNH RMXOFWVW:  GSV TILFMWH ULI HVOVXGRMT
XLNNVIXRZO KFYORHSVIH, ZMW RM-SLFHV KFYORXZGRLM DSVIV KLHHRYOV EVIHFH
MLMKILURG LI TLEVIMNVMG KFYORXZGRLM.  Z HRNROZI ORHG ULI MVGDLIPH
RMXOFWVW:  WVGVINRMRMT DSVM LMV HSLFOW XLMHRWVI WRHHVNRMZGRLM GSILFTS Z
MVGDLIP, RWVMGRUBRMT GSV NVXSZMRHNH LI VMGRGRVH GSZG VCRHG GL KOZXV RGVNH
LM MVGDLIPH, RWVMGRUBRMT GSV KLLO LU VCRHGRMT MVGDLIPH, WVGVINRMRMT SLD Z
KILWFXVI  DLFOW XSLLHV YVGDVVM MVGDLIPH, ZMW RWVMGRUBRMT GSV VOVNVMGH LU
Z YFHRMVHH ZIIZMTVNVMG RM Z MVGDLIP.

LKGRLMH ULI KFYORHSRMT RM XW-ILN:  ZM LFGHRWV KFYORHSVI EVIHFH
HVOU-KFYORXZGRLM.  RU ZM LFGHRWV KFYORHSVI RH FHVW, RG XZM YV MLMKILURG,
