identifier field if he or she is to mount a database commercially.  The
problem with a real networked environment is that one does not know who
is reformatting and reprocessing one's data when one enters a client
server mode.  It becomes anybody's guess, for example, if the network
uses a Z39.50 server, or what clients are doing with one's data.  A data
provider can say that his contract will only permit clients to have
access to his data after he vets them and their presentation and makes
certain it suits him.  But LYNCH held out little expectation that the
network marketplace would evolve in that way, because it required too
much prior negotiation.

CD-ROM software does not network for a variety of reasons, LYNCH said.
He speculated that CD-ROM publishers are not eager to have their products
really hook into wide area networks, because they fear it will make their
data suppliers nervous.  Moreover, until relatively recently, one had to
be rather adroit to run a full TCP/IP stack plus applications on a
PC-size machine, whereas nowadays it is becoming easier as PCs grow
bigger and faster.  LYNCH also speculated that software providers had not
heard from their customers until the last year or so, or had not heard
from enough of their customers.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
BESSER * Implications of disseminating images on the network; planning
the distribution of multimedia documents poses two critical
implementation problems * Layered approach represents the way to deal
with users' capabilities * Problems in platform design; file size and its
implications for networking * Transmission of megabyte size images
impractical * Compression and decompression at the user's end * Promising
trends for compression * A disadvantage of using X-Windows * A project at
the Smithsonian that mounts images on several networks *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Howard BESSER, School of Library and Information Science, University of
Pittsburgh, spoke primarily about multimedia, focusing on images and the
broad implications of disseminating them on the network.  He argued that
planning the distribution of multimedia documents posed two critical
implementation problems, which he framed in the form of two questions:
1) What platform will one use and what hardware and software will users
have for viewing of the material?  and 2) How can one deliver a
sufficiently robust set of information in an accessible format in a
reasonable amount of time?  Depending on whether network or CD-ROM is the
medium used, this question raises different issues of storage,
compression, and transmission.

Concerning the design of platforms (e.g., sound, gray scale, simple
color, etc.) and the various capabilities users may have, BESSER
maintained that a layered approach was the way to deal with users'
capabilities.  A result would be that users with less powerful
workstations would simply have less functionality.  He urged members of
the audience to advocate standards and accompanying software that handle
layered functionality across a wide variety of platforms.

BESSER also addressed problems in platform design, namely, deciding how
large a machine to design for situations when the largest number of users
have the lowest level of the machine, and one desires higher
functionality.  BESSER then proceeded to the question of file size and
its implications for networking.  He discussed still images in the main.
For example, a digital color image that fills the screen of a standard
mega-pel workstation (Sun or Next) will require one megabyte of storage
for an eight-bit image or three megabytes of storage for a true color or
twenty-four-bit image.  Lossless compression algorithms (that is,
computational procedures in which no data is lost in the process of
compressing [and decompressing] an image--the exact bit-representation is
maintained) might bring storage down to a third of a megabyte per image,
but not much further than that.  The question of size makes it difficult
to fit an appropriately sized set of these images on a single disk or to
transmit them quickly enough on a network.

With these full screen mega-pel images that constitute a third of a
megabyte, one gets 1,000-3,000 full-screen images on a one-gigabyte disk;
a standard CD-ROM represents approximately 60 percent of that.  Storing
images the size of a PC screen (just 8 bit color) increases storage
capacity to 4,000-12,000 images per gigabyte; 60 percent of that gives
one the size of a CD-ROM, which in turn creates a major problem.  One
cannot have full-screen, full-color images with lossless compression; one
must compress them or use a lower resolution.  For megabyte-size images,
anything slower than a T-1 speed is impractical.  For example, on a
fifty-six-kilobaud line, it takes three minutes to transfer a
one-megabyte file, if it is not compressed; and this speed assumes ideal
circumstances (no other user contending for network bandwidth).  Thus,
questions of disk access, remote display, and current telephone
connection speed make transmission of megabyte-size images impractical.

BESSER then discussed ways to deal with these large images, for example,
compression and decompression at the user's end.  In this connection, the
issues of how much one is willing to lose in the compression process and
what image quality one needs in the first place are unknown.  But what is
known is that compression entails some loss of data.  BESSER urged that
more studies be conducted on image quality in different situations, for
example, what kind of images are needed for what kind of disciplines, and
what kind of image quality is needed for a browsing tool, an intermediate
viewing tool, and archiving.

BESSER remarked two promising trends for compression:  from a technical
perspective, algorithms that use what is called subjective redundancy
employ principles from visual psycho-physics to identify and remove
information from the image that the human eye cannot perceive; from an
interchange and interoperability perspective, the JPEG (i.e., Joint
Photographic Experts Group, an ISO standard) compression algorithms also
offer promise.  These issues of compression and decompression, BESSER
argued, resembled those raised earlier concerning the design of different
platforms.  Gauging the capabilities of potential users constitutes a
primary goal.  BESSER advocated layering or separating the images from
the applications that retrieve and display them, to avoid tying them to
particular software.

BESSER detailed several lessons learned from his work at Berkeley with
Imagequery, especially the advantages and disadvantages of using
X-Windows.  In the latter category, for example, retrieval is tied
directly to one's data, an intolerable situation in the long run on a
networked system.  Finally, BESSER described a project of Jim Wallace at
the Smithsonian Institution, who is mounting images in a extremely
rudimentary way on the Compuserv and Genie networks and is preparing to
mount them on America On Line.  Although the average user takes over
thirty minutes to download these images (assuming a fairly fast modem),
nevertheless, images have been downloaded 25,000 times.

BESSER concluded his talk with several comments on the business
arrangement between the Smithsonian and Compuserv.  He contended that not
enough is known concerning the value of images.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
WRHXFHHRLM * XIVZGRMT WRTRGRAVW KSLGLTIZKSRX XLOOVXGRLMH MVZIOB
RNKLHHRYOV VCXVKG DRGS OZITV LITZMRAZGRLMH ORPV NFHVFNH * MVVW ULI HGFWB
GL WVGVINRMV JFZORGB LU RNZTVH FHVIH DROO GLOVIZGV *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

WFIRMT GSV YIRVU VCXSZMTV YVGDVVM OVHP ZMW YVHHVI GSZG ULOOLDVW, HVEVIZO
XOZIRURXZGRLMH VNVITVW.

OVHP ZITFVW GSZG GSV KSLGLTIZKSVIH DVIV UZI ZSVZW LU YVHHVI:  RG RH
ZONLHG RNKLHHRYOV GL XIVZGV HFXS WRTRGRAVW KSLGLTIZKSRX XLOOVXGRLMH
VCXVKG DRGS OZITV LITZMRAZGRLMH ORPV NFHVFNH, YVXZFHV ZOO GSV
KSLGLTIZKSRX ZTVMXRVH SZEV YVVM TLRMT XIZAB ZYLFG GSRH ZMW DROO MLG HRTM
ORXVMHRMT ZTIVVNVMGH LM ZMB HLIG LU IVZHLMZYOV GVINH.  OVHP SZW SVZIW
GSZG MZGRLMZO TVLTIZKSRX, ULI VCZNKOV, SZW GIRVW GL YFB GSV IRTSG GL FHV
HLNV RNZTV RM HLNV PRMW LU VWFXZGRLMZO KILWFXGRLM ULI $100 KVI RNZTV, YFG
GSV KSLGLTIZKSVIH DROO MLG GLFXS RG.  GSVB DZMG ZXXLFMGRMT ZMW KZBNVMG
ULI VZXS FHV, DSRXS XZMMLG YV ZXXLNKORHSVW DRGSRM GSV HBHGVN.  YVHHVI
IVHKLMWVW GSZG Z XLMHLIGRFN LU KSLGLTIZKSVIH, SVZWVW YB Z ULINVI MZGRLMZO
TVLTIZKSRX KSLGLTIZKSVI, SZW HGZIGVW ZHHVNYORMT RGH LDM XLOOVXGRLM LU
VOVXGILMRX IVKILWFXGRLMH LU RNZTVH, DRGS GSV NLMVB TLRMT YZXP GL GSV
XLLKVIZGREV.

OVHP XLMGVMWVW GSZG YVHHVI DZH FMMVXVHHZIROB KVHHRNRHGRX ZYLFG NFOGRNVWRZ
RNZTVH, YVXZFHV KVLKOV ZIV ZXXFHGLNVW GL OLD-JFZORGB RNZTVH, KZIGRXFOZIOB
UILN ERWVL.  YVHHVI FITVW GSV OZFMXSRMT LU Z HGFWB GL WVGVINRMV DSZG
FHVIH DLFOW GLOVIZGV, DSZG GSVB DLFOW UVVO XLNULIGZYOV DRGS, ZMW DSZG
ZYHLOFGVOB RH GSV SRTSVHG JFZORGB GSVB DLFOW VEVI MVVW.  XLMXVWRMT GSZG
SV SZW ZWLKGVW Z WRIV GLMV RM LIWVI GL ZILFHV KVLKOV ZYLFG GSV RHHFV,
YVHHVI XOLHVW LM Z HZMTFRMV MLGV YB HZBRMT GSZG SV DLFOW MLG YV RM GSRH
YFHRMVHH RU SV WRW MLG GSRMP GSZG GSRMTH XLFOW YV ZXXLNKORHSVW.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
OZIHVM * RHHFVH LU HXZOZYRORGB ZMW NLWFOZIRGB * TVLNVGIRX TILDGS LU GSV
RMGVIMVG ZMW GSV ILOV KOZBVW YB OZBVIRMT * YZHRX UFMXGRLMH HFHGZRMRMT
GSRH TILDGS * Z ORYIZIB'H ILOVH ZMW UFMXGRLMH RM Z MVGDLIP VMERILMNVMG *
VUUVXGH LU RNKOVNVMGZGRLM LU GSV A39.50 KILGLXLO ULI RMULINZGRLM
IVGIRVEZO LM GSV ORYIZIB HBHGVN * GSV GIZWV-LUU YVGDVVM ELOFNVH LU WZGZ
ZMW RGH KLGVMGRZO FHZTV * Z HMZKHSLG LU XFIIVMG GIVMWH *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

ILMZOW OZIHVM, ZHHLXRZGV WRIVXGLI ULI RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTB, FMREVIHRGB
LU NZIBOZMW ZG XLOOVTV KZIP, URIHG ZWWIVHHVW GSV RHHFVH LU HXZOZYRORGB
ZMW NLWFOZIRGB.  SV MLGVW GSV WRUURXFOGB LU ZMGRXRKZGRMT GSV VUUVXGH LU
LIWVIH-LU-NZTMRGFWV TILDGS, IVUOVXGRMT LM GSV GDVMGB BVZIH LU VCKVIRVMXV
DRGS GSV ZIKZMVG ZMW RMGVIMVG.  IVXZOORMT GSV WZB'H WVNLMHGIZGRLMH LU
XW-ILN ZMW LKGRXZO WRHP NZGVIRZO, SV DVMG LM GL ZHP RU GSV URVOW SZH BVG
OVZIMVW SLD GL HXZOV MVD HBHGVNH GL VMZYOV WVOREVIB ZMW WRHHVNRMZGRLM
ZXILHH OZITV-HXZOV MVGDLIPH.

OZIHVM ULXFHVW LM GSV TVLNVGIRX TILDGS LU GSV RMGVIMVG UILN RGH RMXVKGRLM
XRIXZ 1969 GL GSV KIVHVMG, ZMW GSV ZWQFHGNVMGH IVJFRIVW GL IVHKLMW GL
GSZG IZKRW TILDGS.  GL ROOFHGIZGV GSV RHHFV LU HXZOZYRORGB, OZIHVM
XLMHRWVIVW XLNKFGVI MVGDLIPH ZH RMXOFWRMT GSIVV TVMVIRX XLNKLMVMGH:
XLNKFGVIH, MVGDLIP XLNNFMRXZGRLM MLWVH, ZMW XLNNFMRXZGRLM NVWRZ.  VZXS
XLNKLMVMG HXZOVH (V.T., XLNKFGVIH IZMTV UILN KXH GL HFKVIXLNKFGVIH;
MVGDLIP MLWVH HXZOV UILN RMGVIUZXV XZIWH RM Z KX GSILFTS HLKSRHGRXZGVW
ILFGVIH ZMW TZGVDZBH; ZMW XLNNFMRXZGRLM NVWRZ IZMTV UILN 2,400-YZFW
WRZO-FK UZXRORGRVH GSILFTS 4.5-NYKH YZXPYLMV ORMPH, ZMW VEVMGFZOOB GL
NFOGRTRTZYRG-KVI-HVXLMW XLNNFMRXZGRLM ORMVH), ZMW ZIXSRGVXGFIZOOB, GSV
XLNKLMVMGH ZIV LITZMRAVW GL HXZOV SRVIZIXSRXZOOB UILN OLXZO ZIVZ MVGDLIPH
GL RMGVIMZGRLMZO-HXZOV MVGDLIPH.  HFXS TILDGS RH NZWV KLHHRYOV YB
YFROWRMT OZBVIH LU XLNNFMRXZGRLM KILGLXLOH, ZH YVHHVI KLRMGVW LFG.
YB OZBVIRMT YLGS KSBHRXZOOB ZMW OLTRXZOOB, Z HVMHV LU HXZOZYRORGB RH
NZRMGZRMVW UILN OLXZO ZIVZ MVGDLIPH RM LUURXVH, ZXILHH XZNKFHVH, GSILFTS
YIRWTVH, ILFGVIH, XZNKFH YZXPYLMVH, URYVI-LKGRX ORMPH, VGX., FK RMGL
IVTRLMZO MVGDLIPH ZMW FOGRNZGVOB RMGL MZGRLMZO ZMW RMGVIMZGRLMZO
MVGDLIPH.

OZIHVM GSVM ROOFHGIZGVW GSV TVLNVGIRX TILDGS LEVI Z GDL-BVZI KVIRLW--
GSILFTS HVKGVNYVI 1991--LU GSV MFNYVI LU MVGDLIPH GSZG XLNKIRHV GSV
RMGVIMVG.  GSRH TILDGS SZH YVVM HFHGZRMVW OZITVOB YB GSV ZEZROZYRORGB LU
GSIVV YZHRX UFMXGRLMH:  VOVXGILMRX NZRO, UROV GIZMHUVI (UGK), ZMW IVNLGV
OLT-LM (GVOMVG).  OZIHVM ZOHL IVERVDVW GSV TILDGS RM GSV PRMW LU GIZUURX
GSZG LXXFIH LM GSV MVGDLIP.  MVGDLIP GIZUURX IVUOVXGH GSV QLRMG XLMGIRYFGRLMH
LU Z OZITVI KLKFOZGRLM LU FHVIH ZMW RMXIVZHRMT FHV KVI FHVI.  GLWZB LMV HVVH
HVIRLFH ZKKORXZGRLMH RMELOERMT NLERMT RNZTVH ZXILHH GSV MVGDLIP--Z IZIRGB
GVM BVZIH ZTL.  OZIHVM IVXZOOVW ZMW XLMXFIIVW DRGS YVHHVI'H NZRM KLRMG
GSZG GSV RMGVIVHGRMT KILYOVNH LXXFI ZG GSV ZKKORXZGRLM OVEVO.

OZIHVM GSVM ROOFHGIZGVW Z NLWVO LU Z ORYIZIB'H ILOVH ZMW UFMXGRLMH RM Z
MVGDLIP VMERILMNVMG.  SV MLGVW, RM KZIGRXFOZI, GSV KOZXVNVMG LU LM-ORMV
XZGZOLTFVH LMGL GSV MVGDLIP ZMW KZGILMH LYGZRMRMT ZXXVHH GL GSV ORYIZIB
RMXIVZHRMTOB GSILFTS OLXZO MVGDLIPH, XZNKFH MVGDLIPH, ZMW GSV RMGVIMVG.
OZIHVM HFKKLIGVW OBMXS'H VZIORVI HFTTVHGRLM GSZG DV MVVW GL ZWWIVHH
UFMWZNVMGZO JFVHGRLMH LU MVGDLIPVW RMULINZGRLM RM LIWVI GL YFROW
VMERILMNVMGH GSZG HXZOV RM GSV RMULINZGRLM HVMHV ZH DVOO ZH RM GSV
KSBHRXZO HVMHV.

OZIHVM HFKKLIGVW GSV ILOV LU GSV ORYIZIB HBHGVN ZH GSV ZXXVHH KLRMG RMGL
GSV MZGRLM'H VOVXGILMRX XLOOVXGRLMH.  RNKOVNVMGZGRLM LU GSV A39.50
KILGLXLO ULI RMULINZGRLM IVGIRVEZO DLFOW NZPV HFXS ZXXVHH KIZXGRXZO ZMW
UVZHRYOV.  ULI VCZNKOV, GSRH DLFOW VMZYOV KZGILMH RM NZIBOZMW GL HVZIXS
XZORULIMRZ ORYIZIRVH, LI LGSVI ORYIZIRVH ZILFMW GSV DLIOW GSZG ZIV
XLMULINZMG DRGS A39.50 RM Z NZMMVI GSZG RH UZNRORZI GL FMREVIHRGB LU
NZIBOZMW KZGILMH.  GSRH XORVMG-HVIEVI NLWVO ZOHL HFKKLIGH NLERMT YVBLMW
HVXLMWZIB XLMGVMG RMGL KIRNZIB XLMGVMG.  (GSV MLGRLM LU SLD LMV ORMPH
UILN HVXLMWZIB XLMGVMG GL KIRNZIB XLMGVMG, OZIHVM HZRW, IVKIVHVMGH Z
UFMWZNVMGZO KILYOVN GSZG IVJFRIVH IRTLILFH GSLFTSG.)  ZUGVI MLGRMT
MFNVILFH MVGDLIP VCKVIRNVMGH RM ZXXVHHRMT UFOO-GVCG NZGVIRZOH, RMXOFWRMT
KILQVXGH HFKKLIGRMT GSV LIWVIRMT LU NZGVIRZOH ZXILHH GSV MVGDLIP, OZIHVM
IVERHRGVW GSV RHHFV LU GIZMHNRGGRMT SRTS-WVMHRGB, SRTS-IVHLOFGRLM XLOLI
RNZTVH ZXILHH GSV MVGDLIP ZMW GSV OZITV ZNLFMGH LU YZMWDRWGS GSVB
IVJFRIV.  SV DVMG LM GL ZWWIVHH GSV YZMWDRWGS ZMW HBMXSILMRAZGRLM
KILYOVNH RMSVIVMG RM HVMWRMT UFOO-NLGRLM ERWVL ZXILHH GSV MVGDLIP.

OZIHVM ROOFHGIZGVW GSV GIZWV-LUU YVGDVVM ELOFNVH LU WZGZ RM YBGVH LI
LIWVIH LU NZTMRGFWV ZMW GSV KLGVMGRZO FHZTV LU GSZG WZGZ.  SV WRHXFHHVW
GIZMHNRHHRLM IZGVH (KZIGRXFOZIOB, GSV GRNV RG GZPVH GL NLEV EZIRLFH ULINH
LU RMULINZGRLM), ZMW DSZG LMV XLFOW WL DRGS Z MVGDLIP HFKKLIGRMT
NFOGRTRTZYRG-KVI-HVXLMW GIZMHNRHHRLM.  ZG GSV NLNVMG, GSV MVGDLIP
VMERILMNVMG RMXOFWVH Z XLNKLHRGV LU WZGZ-GIZMHNRHHRLM IVJFRIVNVMGH,
ELOFNVH ZMW ULINH, TLRMT UILN HGVZWB GL YFIHGB (SRTS-ELOFNV) ZMW UILN
EVIB HOLD GL EVIB UZHG.  GSRH ZTTIVTZGV NFHG YV XLMHRWVIVW RM GSV WVHRTM,
XLMHGIFXGRLM, ZMW LKVIZGRLM LU NFOGRTRTZYBGV MVGDLIPH.

OZIHVM'H LYQVXGREV RH GL FHV GSV MVGDLIPH ZMW ORYIZIB HBHGVNH MLD YVRMT
XLMHGIFXGVW GL RMXIVZHV ZXXVHH GL IVHLFIXVH DSVIVEVI GSVB VCRHG, ZMW
GSFH, GL VELOEV GLDZIW ZM LM-ORMV VOVXGILMRX ERIGFZO ORYIZIB.

OZIHVM XLMXOFWVW YB LUUVIRMT Z HMZKHSLG LU XFIIVMG GIVMWH:  XLMGRMFRMT
TVLNVGIRX TILDGS RM MVGDLIP XZKZXRGB ZMW MFNYVI LU FHVIH; HOLDVI
WVEVOLKNVMG LU ZKKORXZGRLMH; ZMW TOZXRZO WVEVOLKNVMG ZMW ZWLKGRLM LU
HGZMWZIWH.  GSV XSZOOVMTV RH GL WVHRTM ZMW WVEVOLK VZXS MVD ZKKORXZGRLM
