convert microfilm to digital imagery, Project Open Book (POB).  Stating
that POB was in an advanced stage of planning, WATERS detailed, in
particular, the process of selecting a vendor partner and several key
issues under discussion as Yale prepares to move into the project itself.
He commented first on the vision that serves as the context of POB and
then described its purpose and scope.

WATERS sees the library of the future not necessarily as an electronic
library but as a place that generates, preserves, and improves for its
clients ready access to both intellectual and physical recorded
knowledge.  Electronic tools must find a place in the library in the
context of this vision.  Several roles for electronic tools include
serving as:  indirect sources of electronic knowledge or as "finding"
aids (the on-line catalogues, the article-level indices, registers for
documents and archives); direct sources of recorded knowledge; full-text
images; and various kinds of compound sources of recorded knowledge (the
so-called compound documents of Hypertext, mixed text and image,
mixed-text image format, and multimedia).

POB is looking particularly at images and an image library, the uses to
which images will be put (e.g., storage, printing, browsing, and then use
as input for other processes), OCR as a subsequent process to image
capture, or creating an image library, and also possibly generating
microfilm.

While input will come from a variety of sources, POB is considering
especially input from preservation microfilm.  A possible outcome is that
the film and paper which provide the input for the image library
eventually may go off into remote storage, and that the image library may
be the primary access tool.

The purpose and scope of POB focus on imaging.  Though related to CXP,
POB has two features which distinguish it:  1) scale--conversion of
10,000 volumes into digital image form; and 2) source--conversion from
microfilm.  Given these features, several key working hypotheses guide
POB, including:  1) Since POB is using microfilm, it is not concerned with
the image library as a preservation medium.  2) Digital imagery can improve
access to recorded knowledge through printing and network distribution at
a modest incremental cost of microfilm.  3) Capturing and storing documents
in a digital image form is necessary to further improvements in access.
(POB distinguishes between the imaging, digitizing process and OCR,
which at this stage it does not plan to perform.)

Currently in its first or organizational phase, POB found that it could
use a vendor selection process to facilitate a good deal of the
organizational work (e.g., creating a project team and advisory board,
confirming the validity of the plan, establishing the cost of the project
and a budget, selecting the materials to convert, and then raising the
necessary funds).

POB developed numerous selection criteria, including:  a firm committed
to image-document management, the ability to serve as systems integrator
in a large-scale project over several years, interest in developing the
requisite software as a standard rather than a custom product, and a
willingness to invest substantial resources in the project itself.

Two vendors, DEC and Xerox, were selected as finalists in October 1991,
and with the support of the Commission on Preservation and Access, each
was commissioned to generate a detailed requirements analysis for the
project and then to submit a formal proposal for the completion of the
project, which included a budget and costs. The terms were that POB would
pay the loser.  The results for Yale of involving a vendor included:
broad involvement of Yale staff across the board at a relatively low
cost, which may have long-term significance in carrying out the project
(twenty-five to thirty university people are engaged in POB); better
understanding of the factors that affect corporate response to markets
for imaging products; a competitive proposal; and a more sophisticated
view of the imaging markets.

The most important factor that distinguished the vendors under
consideration was their identification with the customer.  The size and
internal complexity of the company also was an important factor.  POB was
looking at large companies that had substantial resources.  In the end,
the process generated for Yale two competitive proposals, with CVILC'H
GSV XOVZI DRMMVI.  DZGVIH GSVM WVHXIRYVW GSV XLNKLMVMGH LU GSV KILKLHZO,
GSV WVHRTM KIRMXRKOVH, ZMW HLNV LU GSV XLHGH VHGRNZGVW ULI GSV KILXVHH.

XLNKLMVMGH ZIV VHHVMGRZOOB ULFI:  Z XLMEVIHRLM HFYHBHGVN, Z
MVGDLIP-ZXXVHHRYOV HGLIZTV HFYHBHGVN ULI 10,000 YLLPH (ZMW KLY VCKVXGH
200 GL 600 WKR HGLIZTV), YILDHRMT HGZGRLMH WRHGIRYFGVW LM GSV XZNKFH
MVGDLIP, ZMW MVGDLIP ZXXVHH GL GSV RNZTV KIRMGVIH.

ZNLMT GSV WVHRTM KIRMXRKOVH, KLY DZMGVW XLMEVIHRLM ZG GSV SRTSVHG
KLHHRYOV IVHLOFGRLM.  ZHHFNRMT GRUU UROVH, GRUU UROVH DRGS TILFK 4
XLNKIVHHRLM, GXK/RK, ZMW VGSVIMVG MVGDLIP LM XZNKFH, KLY DZMGVW Z
XORVMG-HVIEVI ZKKILZXS DRGS RNZTV WLXFNVMGH WRHGIRYFGVW GL GSV
DLIPHGZGRLMH ZMW NZWV ZXXVHHRYOV GSILFTS MZGREV DLIPHGZGRLM RMGVIUZXVH
HFXS ZH DRMWLDH.  KLY ZOHL RMHRHGVW LM Z KSZHVW ZKKILZXS GL
RNKOVNVMGZGRLM:  1) Z HGZMW-ZOLMV, HRMTOV-FHVI, OLD-XLHG VMGIB RMGL GSV
YFHRMVHH DRGS Z DLIPHGZGRLM ULXFHVW LM XLMEVIHRLM ZMW ZOOLDRMT KLY GL
VCKOLIV FHVI ZXXVHH; 2) NLEVNVMG RMGL Z SRTSVI-ELOFNV XLMEVIHRLM DRGS
MVGDLIP-ZXXVHHRYOV HGLIZTV ZMW NFOGRKOV ZXXVHH HGZGRLMH; ZMW 3) Z
SRTS-ELOFNV XLMEVIHRLM, UFOO-XZKZXRGB HGLIZTV, ZMW NFOGRKOV YILDHRMT
HGZGRLMH WRHGIRYFGVW GSILFTSLFG GSV XZNKFH.

GSV XLHGH KILKLHVW ULI HGZIG-FK ZHHFNVW GSV VCRHGVMXV LU GSV BZOV MVGDLIP
ZMW RGH GDL WLXFGVXS RNZTV KIRMGVIH.  LGSVI HGZIG-FK XLHGH ZIV VHGRNZGVW
ZG $1 NROORLM LEVI GSV GSIVV KSZHVH.  ZG GSV VMW LU GSV KILQVXG, GSV ZMMFZO
LKVIZGRMT XLHGH VHGRNZGVW KIRNZIROB ULI GSV HLUGDZIV ZMW SZIWDZIV KILKLHVW
XLNV GL ZYLFG $60,000, YFG GSVHV VCXOFWV XLHGH ULI OZYLI MVVWVW RM GSV
XLMEVIHRLM KILXVHH, MVGDLIP ZMW KIRMGVI FHZTV, ZMW UZXRORGRVH NZMZTVNVMG.

URMZOOB, GSV HVOVXGRLM KILXVHH KILWFXVW ULI BZOV Z NLIV HLKSRHGRXZGVW
ERVD LU GSV RNZTRMT NZIPVGH:  GSV NZMZTVNVMG LU XLNKOVC WLXFNVMGH RM
RNZTV ULIN RH MLG Z KIVHVIEZGRLM KILYOVN, MLG Z ORYIZIB KILYOVN, YFG Z
TVMVIZO KILYOVN RM Z YILZW, TVMVIZO RMWFHGIB.  KIVHVIEZGRLM NZGVIRZOH ZIV
FHVUFO ULI WVEVOLKRMT GSZG NZIPVG YVXZFHV LU GSV JFZORGRVH LU GSV
NZGVIRZO.  ULI VCZNKOV, NFXS LU RG RH LFG LU XLKBIRTSG.  GSV IVHLOFGRLM
LU PVB RHHFVH HFXS ZH GSV JFZORGB LU HXZMMRMT ZMW RNZTV YILDHRMT ZOHL
DROO ZUUVXG WVEVOLKNVMG LU GSZG NZIPVG.

GSV GVXSMLOLTB RH IVZWROB ZEZROZYOV YFG XSZMTRMT IZKRWOB.  RM GSRH
XLMGVCG LU IZKRW XSZMTV, HVEVIZO UZXGLIH ZUUVXG JFZORGB ZMW XLHG, GL
DSRXS KLY RMGVMWH GL KZB KZIGRXFOZI ZGGVMGRLM, ULI VCZNKOV, GSV EZIRLFH
OVEVOH LU IVHLOFGRLM GSZG XZM YV ZXSRVEVW.  KLY YVORVEVH RG XZM YIRMT
IVHLOFGRLM FK GL 600 WKR, YFG ZM RMGVIKLOZGRLM KILXVHH UILN 400 GL 600 RH
NLIV ORPVOB.  GSV EZIRZGRLM JFZORGB RM NRXILURON DROO KILEV GL YV Z
SRTSOB RNKLIGZMG UZXGLI.  KLY NZB IVVCZNRMV GSV HGZMWZIWH FHVW GL URON RM
GSV URIHG KOZXV YB OLLPRMT ZG GSRH KILXVHH ZH Z ULOOLD-LM GL NRXILURONRMT.

LGSVI RNKLIGZMG UZXGLIH RMXOFWV:  GSV GVXSMRJFVH ZEZROZYOV GL GSV
LKVIZGLI ULI SZMWORMT NZGVIRZO, GSV DZBH LU RMGVTIZGRMT JFZORGB XLMGILO
RMGL GSV WRTRGRARMT DLIP UOLD, ZMW Z DLIP UOLD GSZG RMXOFWVH RMWVCRMT ZMW
HGLIZTV.  KLY'H IVJFRIVNVMG DZH GL YV ZYOV GL WVZO DRGS JFZORGB XLMGILO
ZG GSV KLRMG LU HXZMMRMT.  GSFH, GSZMPH GL CVILC, KLY ZMGRXRKZGVH SZERMT
Z NVXSZMRHN DSRXS DROO ZOOLD RG MLG LMOB GL HXZM RM YZGXS ULIN, YFG GL
IVERVD GSV NZGVIRZO ZH RG TLVH GSILFTS GSV HXZMMVI ZMW XLMGILO JFZORGB
UILN GSV LFGHVG.

GSV HGZMWZIWH ULI NVZHFIRMT JFZORGB ZMW XLHGH WVKVMW TIVZGOB LM GSV FHVH
LU GSV NZGVIRZO, RMXOFWRMT HFYHVJFVMG LXI, HGLIZTV, KIRMGRMT, ZMW
YILDHRMT.  YFG VHKVXRZOOB ZG RHHFV ULI KLY RH GSV UZXRORGB ULI YILDHRMT.
GSRH UZXRORGB, DZGVIH HZRW, RH KVISZKH GSV DVZPVHG ZHKVXG LU RNZTRMT
GVXSMLOLTB ZMW GSV NLHG RM MVVW LU WVEVOLKNVMG.

Z EZIRVGB LU UZXGLIH ZUUVXG GSV FHZYRORGB LU XLNKOVC WLXFNVMGH RM RNZTV
ULIN, ZNLMT GSVN:  1) GSV ZYRORGB LU GSV HBHGVN GL SZMWOV GSV UFOO IZMTV
LU WLXFNVMG GBKVH, MLG QFHG NLMLTIZKSH YFG HVIRZOH, NFOGR-KZIG
NLMLTIZKSH, ZMW NZMFHXIRKGH; 2) GSV OLXZGRLM LU GSV WZGZYZHV LU IVXLIW
ULI YRYORLTIZKSRX RMULINZGRLM ZYLFG GSV RNZTV WLXFNVMG, DSRXS KLY DZMGH
GL VMGVI LMXV ZMW RM GSV NLHG FHVUFO KOZXV, GSV LM-ORMV XZGZOLT; 3) Z
WLXFNVMG RWVMGRURVI ULI IVUVIVMXRMT GSV YRYORLTIZKSRX RMULINZGRLM RM LMV
KOZXV ZMW GSV RNZTVH RM ZMLGSVI; 4) GSV GVXSMRJFV ULI NZPRMT GSV YZHRX
RMGVIMZO HGIFXGFIV LU GSV WLXFNVMG ZXXVHHRYOV GL GSV IVZWVI; ZMW URMZOOB,
5) GSV KSBHRXZO KIVHVMGZGRLM LM GSV XIG LU GSLHV WLXFNVMGH.  KLY RH IVZWB
GL XLNKOVGV GSRH KSZHV MLD.  LMV OZHG WVXRHRLM RMELOEVH WVXRWRMT DSRXS
NZGVIRZO GL HXZM.
