current interest in developing large bodies of text in computer-readable
form in order to study the language.  Several projects are engaged in
compiling, for example, 100 million words. HOCKEY described one with
which she was associated briefly at Oxford University involving
compilation of 100 million words of British English:  about 10 percent of
that will contain detailed linguistic tagging encoded in SGML; it will
have word class taggings, with words identified as nouns, verbs,
adjectives, or other parts of speech.  This tagging can then be used by
programs which will begin to learn a bit more about the structure of the
language, and then, can go to tag more text.

HOCKEY said that the more that is tagged accurately, the more one can
refine the tagging process and thus the bigger body of text one can build
up with linguistic tagging incorporated into it.  Hence, the more tagging
or annotation there is in the text, the more one may begin to learn about
language and the more it will help accomplish more intelligent OCR.  She
recommended the development of software tools that will help one begin to
understand more about a text, which can then be applied to scanning
images of that text in that format and to using more intelligence to help
one interpret or understand the text.

HOCKEY posited the need to think about common methods of text-encoding
for a long time to come, because building these large bodies of text is
extremely expensive and will only be done once.

In the more general discussion on approaches to encoding that followed,
these points were made:

BESSER identified the underlying problem with standards that all have to
struggle with in adopting a standard, namely, the tension between a very
highly defined standard that is very interchangeable but does not work
for everyone because something is lacking, and a standard that is less
defined, more open, more adaptable, but less interchangeable.  Contending
that the way in which people use SGML is not sufficiently defined, BESSER
wondered 1) if people resist the TEI because they think it is too defined
in certain things they do not fit into, and 2) how progress with
interchangeability can be made without frightening people away.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN replied that the published drafts of the TEI had met
with surprisingly little objection on the grounds that they do not allow
one to handle X or Y or Z.  Particular concerns of the affiliated
projects have led, in practice, to discussions of how extensions are to
be made; the primary concern of any project has to be how it can be
represented locally, thus making interchange secondary.  The TEI has
received much criticism based on the notion that everything in it is
required or even recommended, which, as it happens, is a misconception
from the beginning,   because none of it is required and very little is
actually actively recommended for all cases, except that one document
one's source.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN agreed with BESSER about this trade-off:  all the
projects in a set of twenty TEI-conformant projects will not necessarily
tag the material in the same way.  One result of the TEI will be that the
easiest problems will be solved--those dealing with the external form of
the information; but the problem that is hardest in interchange is that
one is not encoding what another wants, and vice versa.  Thus, after
the adoption of a common notation, the differences in the underlying
conceptions of what is interesting about texts become more visible.
The success of a standard like the TEI will lie in the ability of
the recipient of interchanged texts to use some of what it contains
and to add the information that was not encoded that one wants, in a
layered way, so that texts can be gradually enriched and one does not
have to put in everything all at once.  Hence, having a well-behaved
markup scheme is important.

STEVENS followed up on the paradoxical analogy that BESSER alluded to in
the example of the MARC records, namely, the formats that are the same
except that they are different.  STEVENS drew a parallel between
document-type definitions and MARC records for books and serials and maps,
where one has a tagging structure and there is a text-interchange.
STEVENS opined that the producers of the information will set the terms
for the standard (i.e., develop document-type definitions for the users
of their products), creating a situation that will be problematical for
an institution like the Library of Congress, which will have to deal with
the DTDs in the event that a multiplicity of them develops.  Thus,
numerous people are seeking a standard but cannot find the tag set that
will be acceptable to them and their clients.  SPERBERG-McQUEEN agreed
with this view, and said that the situation was in a way worse:  attempting
to unify arbitrary DTDs resembled attempting to unify a MARC record with a
bibliographic record done according to the Prussian instructions.
According to STEVENS, this situation occurred very early in the process.

WATERS recalled from early discussions on Project Open Book the concern
of many people that merely by producing images, POB was not really
enhancing intellectual access to the material.  Nevertheless, not wishing
to overemphasize the opposition between imaging and full text, WATERS
stated that POB views getting the images as a first step toward possibly
converting to full text through character recognition, if the technology
is appropriate.  WATERS also emphasized that encoding is involved even
with a set of images.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN agreed with WATERS that one can create an SGML document
consisting wholly of images.  At first sight, organizing graphic images
with an SGML document may not seem to offer great advantages, but the
advantages of the schVNV DZGVIH WVHXIRYVW DLFOW YV KIVXRHVOB GSZG
ZYRORGB GL NLEV RMGL HLNVGSRMT GSZG RH NLIV LU Z NFOGRNVWRZ WLXFNVMG:
Z XLNYRMZGRLM LU GIZMHXIRYVW GVCG ZMW KZTV RNZTVH.  DVRYVO XLMXFIIVW RM
GSRH QFWTNVMG, LUUVIRMT VERWVMXV UILN KILQVXG ZWZKG, DSVIV Z KZTV RH
WRERWVW RMGL GVCG VOVNVMGH ZMW TIZKSRX VOVNVMGH, ZMW RM UZXG GSV GVCG
VOVNVMGH ZIV LITZMRAVW YB XLOFNMH ZMW ORMVH.  GSVHV ORMVH NZB YV FHVW ZH
GSV YZHRH ULI WRHGIRYFGRMT WLXFNVMGH RM Z MVGDLIP VMERILMNVMG.  ZH LMV
WVEVOLKH HLUGDZIV RMGVOORTVMG VMLFTS GL IVXLTMRAV DSZG GSLHV VOVNVMGH
ZIV, RG NZPVH HVMHV GL ZKKOB HTNO GL ZM RNZTV RMRGRZOOB, GSZG NZB, RM
UZXG, FOGRNZGVOB YVXLNV NLIV ZMW NLIV GVCG, VRGSVI GSILFTS LXI LI VWRGVW
LXI LI VEVM QFHG GSILFTS PVBRMT.  ULI DZGVIH, GSV OZYLI LU XLNKLHRMT GSV
WLXFNVMG ZMW HZBRMT GSRH HVG LU WLXFNVMGH LI GSRH HVG LU RNZTVH YVOLMTH
GL GSRH WLXFNVMG XLMHGRGFGVH Z HRTMRURXZMG RMEVHGNVMG.

DVRYVO ZOHL NZWV GSV KLRMG GSZG GSV ZZK GZT HVGH, DSROV MLG VCXVHHREVOB
KIVHXIRKGREV, LUUVI Z XLNNLM HGZIGRMT KLRMG; GSVB WL MLG WVURMV GSV
HGIFXGFIV LU GSV WLXFNVMGH, GSLFTS.  GSVB SZEV HLNV IVXLNNVMWZGRLMH ZYLFG
WGWH LMV XLFOW FHV ZH VCZNKOVH, YFG GSVB WL QFHG HFTTVHG GZT HVGH.   ULI
VCZNKOV, GSV XLIV KILQVXG ZGGVNKGH GL FHV GSV ZZK NZIPFK ZH NFXS ZH
KLHHRYOV, YFG GSVIV ZIV XOVZIOB ZIVZH DSVIV HGIFXGFIV NFHG YV ZWWVW.
GSZG RM ML DZB XLMGIZWRXGH GSV FHV LU ZZK GZT HVGH.

HKVIYVIT-NXJFVVM MLGVW GSZG GSV GVR KIVKZIVW Z OLMT DLIPRMT KZKVI VZIOB
LM ZYLFG GSV ZZK GZT HVG ZMW DSZG RG OZXPVW GSZG GSV GVR GSLFTSG RG
MVVWVW, ZMW Z UZRIOB OLMT XIRGRJFV LU GSV MZNRMT XLMEVMGRLMH, DSRXS SZH
OVW GL Z EVIB WRUUVIVMG HGBOV LU MZNRMT RM GSV GVR.  SV HGIVHHVW GSV
RNKLIGZMXV LU GSV LKKLHRGRLM YVGDVVM KIVHXIRKGREV NZIPFK, GSV PRMW GSZG Z
KFYORHSVI LI ZMBYLWB XZM WL DSVM KILWFXRMT WLXFNVMGH WV MLEL, ZMW
WVHXIRKGREV NZIPFK, RM DSRXS LMV SZH GL GZPV DSZG GSV GVCG XZIIRVI
KILERWVH.  RM GSVHV KZIGRXFOZI GZT HVGH RG RH VZHB GL LEVIVNKSZHRAV GSRH
LKKLHRGRLM, YVXZFHV GSV ZZK GZT HVG RH VCGIVNVOB UOVCRYOV.  VEVM RU LMV
QFHG FHVW GSV WGWH, GSVB ZOOLD ZONLHG ZMBGSRMT GL ZKKVZI ZONLHG ZMBDSVIV.

                                 ******

HVHHRLM ER.  XLKBIRTSG RHHFVH

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
KVGVIH * HVEVIZO XZFGRLMH XLMXVIMRMT XLKBIRTSG RM ZM VOVXGILMRX
VMERILMNVMG * IVERVD LU XLKBIRTSG OZD RM GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH * GSV MLGRLM
LU GSV KFYORX TLLW ZMW GSV WVHRIZYRORGB LU RMXVMGREVH GL KILNLGV RG *
DSZG XLKBIRTSG KILGVXGH * DLIPH MLG KILGVXGVW YB XLKBIRTSG * GSV IRTSGH
LU XLKBIRTSG SLOWVIH * KFYORHSVIH' XLMXVIMH RM GLWZB'H VOVXGILMRX
VMERILMNVMG * XLNKFOHLIB ORXVMHVH * GSV KIRXV LU XLKBIRTSG RM Z WRTRGZO
NVWRFN ZMW GSV MVVW ULI XLLKVIZGRLM * ZWWRGRLMZO XOZIRURXZGRLMH *  ILFTS
QFHGRXV LUGVMGRNVH GSV LFGXLNV RM MFNVILFH XLKBIRTSG NZGGVIH * XLKBIRTSG
RM ZM VOVXGILMRX HLXRVGB * XLKBIRTSG OZD ZODZBH LMOB HVGH FK GSV
YLFMWZIRVH; ZMBGSRMT XZM YV XSZMTVW YB XLMGIZXG *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

NZIBYVGS KVGVIH, KLORXB KOZMMRMT ZWERHVI GL GSV IVTRHGVI LU XLKBIRTSGH,
ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH,   NZWV HVEVIZO TVMVIZO XLNNVMGH ZMW GSVM LKVMVW GSV
UOLLI GL WRHXFHHRLM LU HFYQVXGH LU RMGVIVHG GL GSV ZFWRVMXV.

SZERMT ZGGVMWVW HVEVIZO HVHHRLMH RM ZM VUULIG GL TZRM Z HVMHV LU DSZG
KVLKOV WRW ZMW DSVIV XLKBIRTSG DLFOW ZUUVXG GSVRI OREVH, KVGVIH VCKIVHHVW
GSV ULOOLDRMT XZFGRLMH:

     * RU LMV GZPVH ZMW XLMEVIGH NZGVIRZOH ZMW KFGH GSVN RM MVD ULINH,
     GSVM, UILN Z XLKBIRTSG KLRMG LU ERVD, LMV RH XIVZGRMT HLNVGSRMT ZMW
     DROO IVXVREV HLNV IRTSGH.

     * SLDVEVI, RU DSZG LMV RH XLMEVIGRMT ZOIVZWB VCRHGH, Z JFVHGRLM
     RNNVWRZGVOB ZIRHVH ZYLFG GSV HGZGFH LU GSV NZGVIRZOH RM JFVHGRLM.

     * KFGGRMT HLNVGSRMT RM GSV KFYORX WLNZRM RM GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH LUUVIH
     HLNV UIVVWLN UILN ZMCRVGB, YFG WRHGIRYFGRMT RG GSILFTSLFG GSV DLIOW
     LM Z MVGDLIP RH ZMLGSVI NZGGVI, VEVM RU LMV SZH KFG RG RM GSV KFYORX
     WLNZRM RM GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH.  IV ULIVRTM OZDH, EVIB UIVJFVMGOB Z
     DLIP XZM YV RM GSV KFYORX WLNZRM RM GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH YFG KILGVXGVW
     RM LGSVI XLFMGIRVH.  GSFH, LMV NFHG XLMHRWVI ZOO LU GSV KOZXVH Z
     DLIP NZB IVZXS, OVHG LMV FMDRGGRMTOB YVXLNV ORZYOV GL YVRMT UZXVW
     DRGS Z HFRG ULI XLKBIRTSG RMUIRMTVNVMG, LI ZG OVZHG Z OVGGVI
     WVNZMWRMT WRHXFHHRLM LU DSZG LMV RH WLRMT.

KVGVIH IVERVDVW XLKBIRTSG OZD RM GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH.  GSV F.H.
XLMHGRGFGRLM VUUVXGREVOB HGZGVH GSZG XLMTIVHH SZH GSV KLDVI GL VMZXG
XLKBIRTSG OZDH ULI GDL KFIKLHVH:  1) GL VMXLFIZTV GSV XIVZGRLM ZMW
WRHHVNRMZGRLM LU RMGVOOVXGFZO DLIPH ULI GSV TLLW LU HLXRVGB ZH Z DSLOV;
ZMW, HRTMRURXZMGOB, 2) GL TREV XIVZGLIH ZMW GSLHV DSL KZXPZTV ZMW
WRHHVNRMZGV NZGVIRZOH GSV VXLMLNRX IVDZIWH GSZG ZIV WFV GSVN.

XLMTIVHH HGIREVH GL HGIRPV Z YZOZMXV, DSRXS ZG GRNVH XZM YVXLNV ZM
VNLGRLMZO RHHFV.  GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH SZH MVEVI ZXXVKGVW GSV MLGRLM LU GSV
MZGFIZO IRTSG LU ZM ZFGSLI HL NFXS ZH RG SZH ZXXVKGVW GSV MLGRLM LU GSV
KFYORX TLLW ZMW GSV WVHRIZYRORGB LU RMXVMGREVH GL KILNLGV RG.  GSRH HGZGV
LU ZUUZRIH, SLDVEVI, SZH XIVZGVW HGIZRMH LM GSV RMGVIMZGRLMZO OVEVO ZMW
RH GSV IVZHLM ULI HVEVIZO LU GSV WRUUVIVMXVH RM GSV OZDH GSZG DV SZEV.
GLWZB GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH KILGVXGH ZONLHG VEVIB PRMW LU DLIP GSZG XZM YV
XZOOVW ZM VCKIVHHRLM LU ZM ZFGSLI.  GSV HGZMWZIW ULI TZRMRMT XLKBIRTSG
KILGVXGRLM RH HRNKOB LIRTRMZORGB.  GSRH RH Z OLD HGZMWZIW ZMW NVZMH GSZG
Z DLIP RH MLG XLKRVW UILN HLNVGSRMT VOHV, ZH DVOO ZH HSLDH Z XVIGZRM
NRMRNZO ZNLFMG LU ZFGSLIHSRK.  LMV XZM ZOHL ZXJFRIV XLKBIRTSG KILGVXGRLM
ULI NZPRMT Z MVD EVIHRLM LU KIVVCRHGRMT NZGVIRZO, KILERWVW RG NZMRUVHGH
HLNV HKZIP LU XIVZGRERGB.

SLDVEVI, XLKBIRTSG WLVH MLG KILGVXG RWVZH, NVGSLWH, HBHGVNH--LMOB GSV DZB
GSZG LMV VCKIVHHVH GSLHV GSRMTH.  MLI WLVH XLKBIRTSG KILGVXG ZMBGSRMT
GSZG RH NVXSZMRXZO, ZMBGSRMT GSZG WLVH MLG RMELOEV XSLRXV, LI XIRGVIRZ
