results of a process called declicking, in which one mechanically removes
impure sounds from old recordings, are not copyrightable.  On the other
hand, the choice to record a song digitally and to increase the sound of
violins or to bring up the tympani constitutes the results of conversion
that are copyrightable.  Moreover, if a work is protected by copyright in
the United States, one generally needs the permission of the copyright
owner to convert it.  Normally, who will own the new--that is, converted-
-material is a matter of contract.  In the absence of a contract, the
person who creates the new material is the author and owner.  But people
do not generally think about the copyright implications until after the
fact.  PETERS stressed the need when dealing with copyrighted works to
think about copyright in advance.  One's bargaining power is much greater
up front than it is down the road.

PETERS next discussed works not protected by copyright, for example, any
work done by a federal employee as part of his or her official duties is
in the public domain in the United States.  The issue is not wholly free
of doubt concerning whether or not the work is in the public domain
outside the United States.  Other materials in the public domain include:
any works published more than seventy-five years ago, and any work
published in the United States more than twenty-eight years ago, whose
copyright was not renewed.  In talking about the new technology and
putting material in a digital form to send all over the world, PETERS
cautioned, one must keep in mind that while the rights may not be an
issue in the United States, they may be in different parts of the world,
where most countries previously employed a copyright term of the life of
the author plus fifty years.

PETERS next reviewed the economics of copyright holding.  Simply,
economic rights are the rights to control the reproduction of a work in
any form.  They belong to the author, or in the case of a work made for
hire, the employer.  The second right, which is critical to conversion,
is the right to change a work.  The right to make new versions is perhaps
one of the most significant rights of authors, particularly in an
electronic world.  The third right is the right to publish the work and
the right to disseminate it, something that everyone who deals in an
electronic medium needs to know.  The basic rule is if a copy is sold,
all rights of distribution are extinguished with the sale of that copy.
The key is that it must be sold.  A number of companies overcome this
obstacle by leasing or renting their product.  These companies argue that
if the material is rented or leased and not sold, they control the uses
of a work.  The fourth right, and one very important in a digital world,
is a right of public performance, which means the right to show the work
sequentially.  For example, copyright owners control the showing of a
CD-ROM product in a public place such as a public library.  The reverse
side of public performance is something called the right of public
display.  Moral rights also exist, which at the federal level apply only
to very limited visual works of art, but in theory may apply under
contract and other principles.  Moral rights may include the right of an
author to have his or her name on a work, the right of attribution, and
the right to object to distortion or mutilation--the right of integrity.

The way copyright law is worded gives much latitude to activities such as
preservation; to use of material for scholarly and research purposes when
the user does not make multiple copies; and to the generation of
facsimile copies of unpublished works by libraries for themselves and
other libraries.  But the law does not allow anyone to become the
distributor of the product for the entire world.  In today's electronic
environment, publishers are extremely concerned that the entire world is
networked and can obtain the information desired from a single copy in a
single library.  Hence, if there is to be only one sale, which publishers
may choose to live with, they will obtain their money in other ways, for
example, from access and use.  Hence, the development of site licenses
and other kinds of agreements to cover what publishers believe they
should be compensated for.  Any solution that the United States takes
today has to consider the international arena.

Noting that the United States is a member of the Berne Convention and
subscribes to its provisions, PETERS described the permissions process.
She also defined compulsory licenses.  A compulsory license, of which the
United States has had a few, builds into the law the right to use a work
subject to certain terms and conditions.  In the international arena,
however, the ability to use compulsory licenses is extremely limited.
Thus, clearinghouses and other collectives comprise one option that has
succeeded in providing for use of a work.  Often overlooked when one
begins to use copyrighted material and put products together is how
expensive the permissions process and managing it is.  According to
PETERS, the price of copyright in a digital medium, whatever solution is
worked out, will include managing and assembling the database.  She
strongly recommended that publishers and librarians or people with
various backgrounds cooperate to work out administratively feasible
systems, in order to produce better results.

In the lengthy question-and-answer period that followed PETERS's
presentation, the following points emerged:

     * The Copyright Office maintains that anything mechanical and
     totally exhaustive probably is not protected.  In the event that
     what an individual did in developing potentially copyrightable
     material is not understood, the Copyright Office will ask about the
     creative choices the applicant chose to make or not to make.  As a
     practical matter, if one believes she or he has made enough of those
     choices, that person has a right to assert a copyright and someone
     else must assert that the work is not copyrightable.  The more
     mechanical, the more automatic, a thing is, the less likely it is to
     be copyrightable.

     * Nearly all photographs are deemed to be copyrightable, but no one
     worries about them much, because everyone is free to take the same
     image.  Thus, a photographic copyright represents what is called a
     "thin" copyright.  The photograph itself must be duplicated, in
     order for copyright to be violated.

     * The Copyright OffiXV GZPVH GSV KLHRGRLM GSZG C-IZBH ZIV MLG
     XLKBIRTSGZYOV YVXZFHV GSVB ZIV NVXSZMRXZO.  RG  XZM YV ZITFVW
     DSVGSVI LI MLG RNZTV VMSZMXVNVMG RM HXZMMRMT XZM YV KILGVXGVW.  LMV
     NFHG VCVIXRHV XZIV DRGS NZGVIRZO XIVZGVW DRGS KFYORX UFMWH ZMW
     TVMVIZOOB RM GSV KFYORX WLNZRM.  ZM ZIGRXOV DIRGGVM YB Z UVWVIZO
     VNKOLBVV, RU DIRGGVM ZH KZIG LU LUURXRZO WFGRVH, RH MLG
     XLKBIRTSGZYOV.  SLDVEVI, XLMGILO LEVI Z HXRVMGRURX ZIGRXOV DIRGGVM
     YB Z MZGRLMZO RMHGRGFGVH LU SVZOGS TIZMGVV (R.V., HLNVLMV DSL
     IVXVREVH NLMVB UILN GSV F.H. TLEVIMNVMG), WVKVMWH LM MRS KLORXB.  RU
     GSV TLEVIMNVMG ZTVMXB SZH ML KLORXB (ZMW GSZG KLORXB XZM YV
     XLMGZRMVW RM RGH IVTFOZGRLMH, GSV XLMGIZXG, LI GSV TIZMG), GSV
     ZFGSLI IVGZRMH XLKBIRTSG.  RU Z KILERHRLM LU GSV XLMGIZXG, TIZMG, LI
     IVTFOZGRLM HGZGVH GSZG GSVIV DROO YV ML XLKBIRTSG, GSVM RG WLVH MLG
     VCRHG.  DSVM Z DLIP RH XIVZGVW, XLKBIRTSG ZFGLNZGRXZOOB XLNVH RMGL
     VCRHGVMXV FMOVHH HLNVGSRMT VCRHGH GSZG HZBH RG WLVH MLG.

     * ZM VMSZMXVW VOVXGILMRX XLKB LU Z KIRMG XLKB LU ZM LOWVI IVUVIVMXV
     DLIP RM GSV KFYORX WLNZRM GSZG WLVH MLG XLMGZRM XLKBIRTSGZYOV MVD
     NZGVIRZO RH Z KFIVOB NVXSZMRXZO IVMWRGRLM LU GSV LIRTRMZO DLIP, ZMW
     RH MLG XLKBIRTSGZYOV.

     * FHFZOOB, DSVM Z DLIP VMGVIH GSV KFYORX WLNZRM, MLGSRMT XZM IVNLEV
     RG.  ULI VCZNKOV, XLMTIVHH IVXVMGOB KZHHVW RMGL OZD GSV XLMXVKG LU
     ZFGLNZGRX IVMVDZO, DSRXS NVZMH GSZG XLKBIRTSG LM ZMB DLIP KFYORHSVW
     YVGDVVM O964 ZMW O978 WLVH MLG SZEV GL YV IVMVDVW RM LIWVI GL
     IVXVREV Z HVEVMGB-UREV-BVZI GVIN.  YFG ZMB DLIP MLG IVMVDVW YVULIV
     1964 RH RM GSV KFYORX WLNZRM.

     * XLMXVIMRMT DSVGSVI LI MLG GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH PVVKH GIZXP LU DSVM
     ZFGSLIH WRV, MLGSRMT DZH VEVI WLMV, MLI RH ZMBGSRMT YVRMT WLMV ZG
     GSV NLNVMG YB GSV XLKBIRTSG LUURXV.

     * HLUGDZIV GSZG WIREVH Z NVXSZMRXZO KILXVHH RH RGHVOU XLKBIRTSGZYOV.
     RU LMV XSZMTVH KOZGULINH, GSV HLUGDZIV RGHVOU SZH Z XLKBIRTSG.  GSV
     DLIOW RMGVOOVXGFZO KILKVIGB LITZMRAZGRLM DROO SLOW Z HBNKLHRFN 28
     NZIXS GSILFTS 2 ZKIRO O993, ZG SZIEZIW FMREVIHRGB, LM WRTRGZO
     GVXSMLOLTB, ZMW DROO HGFWB GSRH VMGRIV RHHFV.  RU LMV KFIXSZHVH Z
     XLNKFGVI HLUGDZIV KZXPZTV, HFXS ZH NZXKZRMG, ZMW XIVZGVH HLNVGSRMT
     MVD, LMV IVXVREVH KILGVXGRLM LMOB ULI GSZG DSRXS SZH YVVM ZWWVW.

KVGVIH ZWWVW GSZG LUGVM RM XLKBIRTSG NZGGVIH, ILFTS QFHGRXV RH GSV
LFGXLNV, ULI VCZNKOV, RM XLOOVXGREV ORXVMHRMT, ZHXZK (R.V., ZNVIRXZM
HLXRVGB LU XLNKLHVIH, ZFGSLIH, ZMW KFYORHSVIH), ZMW YNR (R.V., YILZWXZHG
NFHRX, RMX.), DSVIV RG NZB HVVN GSZG GSV YRT TFBH IVXVREV NLIV GSZM GSVRI
WFV.  LU XLFIHV, KVLKOV LFTSG MLG GL XLKB Z XIVZGREV KILWFXG DRGSLFG
KZBRMT ULI RG; GSVIV HSLFOW YV HLNV XLNKVMHZGRLM.  YFG GSV GIFGS LU GSV
DLIOW, ZMW RG RH MLG Z TIVZG GIFGS, RH GSZG GSV YRT TFB TVGH KOZBVW LM
GSV IZWRL NLIV UIVJFVMGOB GSZM GSV ORGGOV TFB, DSL SZH GL WL NFXS NLIV
FMGRO SV YVXLNVH Z YRT TFB.  GSZG RH GIFV LU VEVIB ZFGSLI, VEVIB
XLNKLHVI, VEVIBLMV, ZMW, FMULIGFMZGVOB, RH KZIG LU ORUV.

XLKBIRTSG ZODZBH LIRTRMZGVH DRGS GSV ZFGSLI, VCXVKG RM XZHVH LU DLIPH
NZWV ULI SRIV.  (NLHG HLUGDZIV UZOOH RMGL GSRH XZGVTLIB.)  DSVM ZM ZFGSLI
HVMWH SRH ZIGRXOV GL Z QLFIMZO, SV SZH MLG IVORMJFRHSVW XLKBIRTSG, GSLFTS
SV IVGZRMH GSV IRTSG GL IVORMJFRHS RG.  GSV ZFGSLI IVXVREVH ZYHLOFGVOB
VEVIBGSRMT.  GSV OVHH KILNRMVMG GSV ZFGSLI, GSV NLIV OVEVIZTV GSV
KFYORHSVI DROO SZEV RM XLMGIZXG MVTLGRZGRLMH.  RM LIWVI GL GIZMHUVI GSV
IRTSGH, GSV ZFGSLI NFHG HRTM ZM ZTIVVNVMG TRERMT GSVN ZDZB.

RM ZM VOVXGILMRX HLXRVGB, RG RH RNKLIGZMG GL YV ZYOV GL ORXVMHV Z DIRGVI
ZMW DLIP LFG WVZOH.  DRGS IVTZIW GL FHV LU Z DLIP, RG FHFZOOB RH NFXS
VZHRVI DSVM Z KFYORHSVI SLOWH GSV IRTSGH.  RM ZM VOVXGILMRX VIZ, Z IVZO
KILYOVN ZIRHVH DSVM LMV RH WRTRGRARMT ZMW NZPRMT RMULINZGRLM ZEZROZYOV.
KVGVIH IVUVIIVW ZTZRM GL VOVXGILMRX ORXVMHRMT XOVZIRMTSLFHVH.  XLKBIRTSG
LFTSG GL IVNZRM DRGS GSV ZFGSLI, YFG ZH LMV NLEVH ULIDZIW TOLYZOOB RM GSV
VOVXGILMRX ZIVMZ, Z NRWWOVNZM DSL XZM SZMWOV GSV EZIRLFH IRTSGH YVXLNVH
RMXIVZHRMTOB MVXVHHZIB.

GSV MLGRLM LU XLKBIRTSG OZD RH GSZG RG IVHRWVH DRGS GSV RMWRERWFZO, YFG
RM ZM LM-ORMV VMERILMNVMG, DSVIV Z DLIP XZM YV ZWZKGVW ZMW GRMPVIVW DRGS
YB NZMB RMWRERWFZOH, GSVIV RH XLMXVIM.  RU XSZMTVH ZIV ZFGSLIRAVW ZMW
GSVIV RH ML ZTIVVNVMG GL GSV XLMGIZIB, GSV KVIHLM DSL XSZMTVH Z DLIP LDMH
GSV XSZMTVH.  GL KFG RG ZMLGSVI DZB, GSV KVIHLM DSL ZXJFRIVH KVINRHHRLM
GL XSZMTV Z DLIP GVXSMRXZOOB DROO YVXLNV GSV ZFGSLI ZMW GSV LDMVI, FMOVHH
HLNV ZTIVVNVMG GL GSV XLMGIZIB SZH YVVM NZWV.  RG RH GBKRXZO ULI GSV
LIRTRMZO KFYORHSVI GL GIB GL XLMGILO ZOO LU GSV EVIHRLMH ZMW ZOO LU GSV
FHVH.  XLKBIRTSG OZD ZODZBH LMOB HVGH FK GSV YLFMWZIRVH.  ZMBGSRMT XZM YV
XSZMTVW YB XLMGIZXG.

                                 ******

HVHHRLM ERR.  XLMXOFHRLM

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
TVMVIZO WRHXFHHRLM * GDL JFVHGRLMH ULI WRHXFHHRLM * WRUUVIVMG VNKSZHVH RM
GSV DLIPHSLK * YIRMTRMT GSV GVCG ZMW RNZTV KZIGRHZMH GLTVGSVI *
WVHRWVIZGZ RM KOZMMRMT GSV OLMT-GVIN WVEVOLKNVMG LU HLNVGSRMT * JFVHGRLMH
HFIILFMWRMT GSV RHHFV LU VOVXGILMRX WVKLHRG * WRHXFHHRLM LU VOVXGILMRX
WVKLHRG ZH ZM ZOOFHRLM GL GSV RHHFV LU HGZMWZIWH * MVVW ULI Z WRIVXGLIB
LU KIVHVIEZGRLM KILQVXGH RM WRTRGZO ULIN ZMW ULI ZXXVHH GL GSVRI
WRTRGRAVW UROVH * XVGS'H XZGZOLTFV LU NZXSRMV-IVZWZYOV GVCGH RM GSV
SFNZMRGRVH * DSZG XLMHGRGFGVH Z KFYORXZGRLM RM GSV VOVXGILMRX DLIOW? *
MVVW ULI OX GL WVZO DRGS GSV XLMXVKG LU LM-ORMV KFYORHSRMT * OX'H MVGDLIP
WVEVOLKNVMG LUURXV  VCKOLIRMT GSV ORNRGH LU NZIX ZH Z HGZMWZIW RM GVINH
LU SZMWORMT VOVXGILMRX RMULINZGRLM * NZTMRGFWV LU GSV KILYOVN ZMW GSV
MVVW ULI WRHGIRYFGVW IVHKLMHRYRORGB RM LIWVI GL NZRMGZRM ZMW HGLIV
VOVXGILMRX RMULINZGRLM * DLIPHSLK KZIGRXRKZMGH GL YV ERVDVW ZH Z HGZIGRMT
KLRMG * WVEVOLKNVMG LU Z MVGDLIP EVIHRLM LU ZN FITVW * Z HGVK GLDZIW ZN'H
XLMHGIFXGRLM LU HLNV HLIG LU ZKKZIZGFH ULI MVGDLIP ZXXVHH * Z WVORXZGV
ZMW ZTLMRARMT KLORXB JFVHGRLM ULI OX * IV GSV RHHFV LU VOVXGILMRX
WVKLHRG, OX FITVW GL RMRGRZGV Z XZGZOBGRX KILXVHH RM GVINH LU WRHGIRYFGVW
IVHKLMHRYRORGB * HFTTVHGRLMH ULI XLLKVIZGREV EVMGFIVH * XLNNVIXRZO
KFYORHSVIH' UVZIH * HGIZGVTRX JFVHGRLMH ULI TVGGRMT GSV RNZTV ZMW GVCG
KVLKOV GL GSRMP GSILFTS OLMT-GVIN XLLKVIZGRLM * XOZIRURXZGRLM LU GSV
WIRERMT ULIXV YVSRMW YLGS GSV KVIHVFH ZMW GSV XLIMVOO CVILC KILQVXGH *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

RM SRH ILOV ZH NLWVIZGLI LU GSV XLMXOFWRMT HVHHRLM, TRUULIW IZRHVW GDL
JFVHGRLMH SV YVORVEVW DLFOW YVMVURG UILN WRHXFHHRLM:  1) ZIV GSVIV VMLFTS
