     3.)  Primary electronic publishing (materials for which the
          electronic version is the primary format)

OCLC has experimental or product development activities in each of these
areas.  Among the challenges that lie ahead is the integration of these
three types of information stores in coherent distributed systems.

The CORE (Chemistry Online Retrieval Experiment) Project is a model for
the conversion of large text and graphics collections for which
electronic typesetting files are available (category 2).  The American
Chemical Society has made available computer typography files dating from
1980 for its twenty journals.  This collection of some 250 journal-years
is being converted to an electronic format that will be accessible
through several end-user applications.

The use of Standard Generalized Markup Language (SGML) offers the means
to capture the structural richness of the original articles in a way that
will support a variety of retrieval, navigation, and display options
necessary to navigate effectively in very large text databases.

An SGML document consists of text that is marked up with descriptive tags
that specify the function of a given element within the document.  As a
formal language construct, an SGML document can be parsed against a
document-type definition (DTD) that unambiguously defines what elements
are allowed and where in the document they can (or must) occur.  This
formalized map of article structure allows the user interface design to
be uncoupled from the underlying database system, an important step
toward interoperability.  Demonstration of this separability is a part of
the CORE project, wherein user interface designs born of very different
philosophies will access the same database.

NOTES:
     (6)  The CORE project is a collaboration among Cornell University's
     Mann Library, Bell Communications Research (Bellcore), the American
     Chemical Society (ACS), the Chemical Abstracts Service (CAS), and
     OCLC.

Michael LESK                  The CORE Electronic Chemistry Library

A major on-line file of chemical journal literature complete with
graphics is being developed to test the usability of fully electronic
access to documents, as a joint project of Cornell University, the
American Chemical Society, the Chemical Abstracts Service, OCLC, and
Bellcore (with additional support from Sun Microsystems, Springer-Verlag,
DigitaI Equipment Corporation, Sony Corporation of America, and Apple
Computers).  Our file contains the American Chemical Society's on-line
journals, supplemented with the graphics from the paper publication.  The
indexing of the articles from Chemical Abstracts Documents is available
in both image and text format, and several different interfaces can be
used.  Our goals are (1) to assess the effectiveness and acceptability of
electronic access to primary journals as compared with paper, and (2) to
identify the most desirable functions of the user interface to an
electronic system of journals, including in particular a comparison of
page-image display with ASCII display interfaces.  Early experiments with
chemistry students on a variety of tasks suggest that searching tasks are
completed much faster with any electronic system than with paper, but
that for reading all versions of the articles are roughly equivalent.

Pamela ANDRE and Judith ZIDAR

Text conversion is far more expensive and time-consuming than image
capture alone.  NAL's experience with optical character recognition (OCR)
will be related and compared with the experience of having text rekeyed.
What factors affect OCR accuracy?  How accurate does full text have to be
in order to be useful?  How do different users react to imperfect text?
GSVHV ZIV JFVHGRLMH GSZG DROO YV VCKOLIVW.  ULI NZMB, Z HVIERXV YFIVZF
NZB YV Z YVGGVI HLOFGRLM GSZM KVIULINRMT GSV DLIP RMSLFHV; GSRH DROO ZOHL
YV WRHXFHHVW.

HVHHRLM ER

NZIBYVGS KVGVIH

XLKBIRTSG OZD KILGVXGH XIVZGREV DLIPH.  KILGVXGRLM TIZMGVW YB GSV OZD GL
ZFGSLIH ZMW WRHHVNRMZGLIH LU DLIPH RMXOFWVH GSV IRTSG GL WL LI ZFGSLIRAV
GSV ULOOLDRMT:  IVKILWFXV GSV DLIP, KIVKZIV WVIREZGREV DLIPH, WRHGIRYFGV
GSV DLIP GL GSV KFYORX, ZMW KFYORXOB KVIULIN LI WRHKOZB GSV DLIP.  RM
ZWWRGRLM, XLKBIRTSG LDMVIH LU HLFMW IVXLIWRMTH ZMW XLNKFGVI KILTIZNH SZEV
GSV IRTSG GL XLMGILO IVMGZO LU GSVRI DLIPH.  GSVHV IRTSGH ZIV MLG
FMORNRGVW; GSVIV ZIV Z MFNYVI LU VCXVKGRLMH ZMW ORNRGZGRLMH.

ZM VOVXGILMRX VMERILMNVMG KOZXVH HGIZRMH LM GSV XLKBIRTSG HBHGVN.
XLKBIRTSG LDMVIH DZMG GL XLMGILO FHVH LU GSVRI DLIP ZMW YV KZRW ULI ZMB
FHV; GSV KFYORX DZMGH JFRXP ZMW VZHB ZXXVHH ZG ORGGOV LI ML XLHG.  GSV
NZIPVGKOZXV RH DLIPRMT RM GSRH ZIVZ.  XLMGIZXGH, TFRWVORMVH LM VOVXGILMRX
FHV, ZMW XLOOVXGREV ORXVMHRMT ZIV RM FHV ZMW YVRMT IVURMVW.

RHHFVH XLMXVIMRMT GSV ZYRORGB GL XSZMTV DLIPH DRGSLFG WVGVXGRLM ZIV NLIV
WRUURXFOG GL WVZO DRGS.  JFVHGRLMH XLMXVIMRMT GSV RMGVTIRGB LU GSV DLIP
ZMW GSV HGZGFH LU GSV XSZMTVW EVIHRLM FMWVI GSV XLKBIRTSG OZD ZIV GL YV
ZWWIVHHVW.  GSVHV ZIV KFYORX KLORXB RHHFVH DSRXS IVJFRIV RMULINVW
WRZOLTFV.


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                ZKKVMWRC RRR:  WRIVXGLIB LU KZIGRXRKZMGH


KIVHVMGVIH:

     KZNVOZ J.Q. ZMWIV
     ZHHLXRZGV WRIVXGLI, ZFGLNZGRLM
     MZGRLMZO ZTIRXFOGFIZO ORYIZIB
     10301 YZOGRNLIV YLFOVEZIW
     YVOGHEROOV, NW 20705-2351
     KSLMV:  (301) 504-6813
     UZC:  (301) 504-7473
     V-NZRO:  RMGVIMVG:  KZMWIV@ZHII.ZIHFHWZ.TLE

     QVZM YZILMZH, HVMRLI NZMZTVI
     WVKZIGNVMG LU HGZMWZIWH ZMW GVXSMLOLTB
     ZHHLXRZGRLM ULI RMULINZGRLM ZMW RNZTV NZMZTVNVMG (ZRRN)
     1100 DZBMV ZEVMFV, HFRGV 1100
     HROEVI HKIRMT, NW 20910
     KSLMV:  (301) 587-8202
     UZC:  (301) 587-2711

     KZGIRXRZ YZGGRM, KIVHRWVMG
     GSV XLNNRHHRLM LM KIVHVIEZGRLM ZMW ZXXVHH
     1400 16GS HGIVVG, M.D.
     HFRGV 740
     DZHSRMTGLM, WX 20036-2217
     KSLMV:  (202) 939-3400
     UZC:  (202) 939-3407
     V-NZRO:  XKZ@TDFEN.YRGMVG

     SLDZIW YVHHVI
     XVMGIV XZMZWRVM W'ZIXSRGVXGFIV
     (XZMZWRZM XVMGVI ULI ZIXSRGVXGFIV)
     1920, IFV YZROV
     NLMGIVZO, JFVYVX S3S 2H6
     XZMZWZ
     KSLMV:  (514) 939-7001
     UZC:  (514) 939-7020
     V-NZRO:  SLDZIW@ORH.KRGG.VWF

     VWDRM Y. YILDMIRTT, VCVXFGREV WRIVXGLI
     NVNVC IVHVZIXS RMHGRGFGV
     422 YLMRGZ ZEVMFV
     ILHVEROOV, XZ 95678
     KSLMV:  (916) 784-2298
     UZC:  (916) 786-7559
     V-NZRO:  YRGMVG:  NVNVC@XZOHGZGV.2

     VIRX N. XZOZOFXZ, ERXV KIVHRWVMG
     XSZWDBXP-SVZOVB, RMX.
     1101 PRMT HGIVVG
     ZOVCZMWIRZ, EZ 223O4
     KSLMV:  (800) 752-05O5
     UZC:  (703) 683-7589

     QZNVH WZOB
     4015 WVVKDLLW ILZW
     YZOGRNLIV, NW 21218-1404
     KSLMV:  (410) 235-0763

     IRXPB VIDZB, ZHHLXRZGV XLLIWRMZGLI
     ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB
     ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH
     KSLMV:  (202) 707-6233
