one wants to work with.  Perhaps a more useful concept than that of
reproducibility or recoverability is that of processability, that is,
what can one get from an electronic text without reading it again
in the original.  He illustrated this contention with a page from
Jan Comenius's bilingual Introduction to Latin.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN returned at length to the issue of images as simulacra
for the text, in order to reiterate his belief that in the long run more
than images of pages of particular editions of the text are needed,
because just as second-generation photocopies and second-generation
microfilm degenerate, so second-generation representations tend to
degenerate, and one tends to overstress some relatively trivial aspects
of the text such as its layout on the page, which is not always
significant, despite what the text critics might say, and slight other
pieces of information such as the very important lexical ties between the
English and Latin versions of Comenius's bilingual text, for example.
Moreover, in many crucial respects it is easy to fool oneself concerning
what a scanned image of GSV GVCG DROO ZXXLNKORHS.  ULI VCZNKOV, RM LIWVI
GL HGFWB GSV GIZMHNRHHRLM LU GVCGH, RMULINZGRLM XLMXVIMRMT GSV GVCG
XZIIRVI RH MVXVHHZIB, DSRXS HXZMMVW RNZTVH HRNKOB WL MLG ZODZBH SZMWOV.
UFIGSVI, VEVM GSV SRTS-JFZORGB NZGVIRZOH YVRMT KILWFXVW ZG XLIMVOO FHV
NFXS LU GSV RMULINZGRLM GSZG LMV DLFOW MVVW RU HGFWBRMT GSLHV YLLPH ZH
KSBHRXZO LYQVXGH.  RG RH Z XSLRXV GSZG SZH YVVM NZWV.  RG RH ZM ZITFZYOB
QFHGRURZYOV XSLRXV, YFG LMV WLVH MLG PMLD DSZG XLOLI GSLHV KVM HGILPVH RM
