Pigeon; `but I must be on the look-out for serpents night and
day!  Why, I haven't had a wink of sleep these three weeks!'

  `I'm very sorry you've been annoyed,' said Alice, who was
beginning to see its meaning.

  `And just as I'd taken the highest tree in the wood,' continued
the Pigeon, raising its voice to a shriek, `and just as I was
thinking I should be free of them at last, they must needs come
wriggling down from the sky!  Ugh, Serpent!'

  `But I'm NOT a serpent, I tell you!' said Alice.  `I'm a--I'm
a--'

  `Well!  WHAT are you?' said the Pigeon.  `I can see you're
trying to invent something!'

  `I--I'm a little girl,' said Alice, rather doubtfully, as she
remembered the number of changes she had gone through that day.

  `A likely story indeed!' said the Pigeon in a tone of the
deepest contempt.  `I've seen a good many little girls in my
time, but never ONE with such a neck as that!  No, no!  You're a
serpent; and there's no use denying it.  I suppose you'll be
telling me next that you never tasted an egg!'

  `I HAVE tasted eggs, certainly,' said Alice, who was a very
truthful child; `but little girls eat eggs quite as much as
serpents do, you know.'

  `I don't believe it,' said the Pigeon; `but if they do, why
then they're a kind of serpent, that's all I can say.'

  This was such a new idea to Alice, that she was quite silent
for a minute or two, which gave the Pigeon the opportunity of
adding, `You're looking for eggs, I know THAT well enough; and
what does it matter to me whether you're a little girl or a
serpent?'

  `It matters a good deal to ME,' said Alice hastily; `but I'm
not looking for eggs, as it happens; and if I was, I shouldn't
want YOURS:  I don't like them raw.'

  `Well, be off, then!' said the Pigeon in a sulky tone, as it
settled down again into its nest.  Alice crouched down among the
trees as well as she could, for her neck kept getting entangled
among the branches, and every now and then she had to stop and
untwist it.  After a while she remembered that she still held the
pieces of mushroom in her hands, and she set to work very
carefully, nibbling first at one and then at the other, and
growing sometimes taller and sometimes shorter, until she had
succeeded in bringing herself down to her usual height.

  It was so long since she had been anything near the right size,
that it felt quite strange at first; but she got used to it in a
few minutes, and began talking to herself, as usual.  `Come,
there's half my plan done now!  How puzzling all these changes
are!  I'm never sure what I'm going to be, from one minute to
another!  However, I've got back to my right size:  the next
thing is, to get into that beautiful garden--how IS that to be
done, I wonder?'  As she said this, she came suddenly upon an
open place, with a little house in it about four feet high.
`Whoever lives there,' thought Alice, `it'll never do to come
upon them THIS size:  why, I should frighten them out of their
wits!'  So she began nibbling at the righthand bit again, and did
not venture to go near the house till she had brought herself
down to nine inches high.



                           CHAPTER VI

                         Pig and Pepper


  For a minute or two she stood looking at the house, and
wondering what to do next, when suddenly a footman in livery came
running out of the wood--(she considered him to be a footman
because he was in livery:  otherwise, judging by his face only,
she would have called him a fish)--and rapped loudly at the door
with his knuckles.  It was opened by another footman in livery,
with a round face, and large eyes like a frog; and both footmen,
Alice noticed, had powdered hair that curled all over their
heads.  She felt very curious to know what it was all about, and
crept a little way out of the wood to listen.

  The Fish-Footman began by producing from under his arm a great
letter, nearly as large as himself, and this he handed over to
the other, saying, in a solemn tone, `For the Duchess.  An
invitation from the Queen to play croquet.'  The Frog-Footman
repeated, in the same solemn tone, only changing the order of the
words a little, `From the Queen.  An invitation for the Duchess
to play croquet.'

  Then they both bowed low, and their curls got entangled
together.

  Alice laughed so much at this, that she had to run back into
the wood for fear of their hearing her; and when she next peeped
out the Fish-Footman was gone, and the other was sitting on the
ground near the door, staring stupidly up into the sky.

  Alice went timidly up to the door, and knocked.

  `There's no sort of use in knocking,' said the Footman, `and
that for two reasons.  First, because I'm on the same side of the
door as you are; secondly, because they're making such a noise
inside, no one could possibly hear you.'  And certainly there was
a most extraordinary noise going on within--a constant howling
and sneezing, and every now and then a great crash, as if a dish
or kettle had been broken to pieces.

  `Please, then,' said Alice, `how am I to get in?'

  `There might be some sense in your knocking,' the Footman went
on without attending to her, `if we had the door between us.  For
instance, if you were INSIDE, you might knock, and I could let
you out, you know.'  He was looking up into the sky all the time
he was speaking, and this Alice thought decidedly uncivil.  `But
perhaps he can't help it,' she said to herself; `his eyes are so
VERY nearly at the top of his head.  But at any rate he might
answer questions.--How am I to get in?' she repeated, aloud.

  `I shall sit here,' the Footman remarked, `till tomorrow--'

  At this moment the door of the house opened, and a large plate
came skimming out, straight at the Footman's head:  it just
grazed his nose, and broke to pieces against one of the trees
behind him.

  `--or next day, maybe,' the Footman continued in the same tone,
exactly as if nothing had happened.

  `How am I to get in?' asked Alice again, in a louder tone.

  `ARE you to get in at all?' said the Footman.  `That's the
first question, you know.'

  It was, no doubt:  only Alice did not like to be told so.
`It's really dreadful,' she muttered to herself, `the way all the
creatures argue.  It's enough to drive one crazy!'

  The Footman seemed to think this a good opportunity for
repeating his remark, with variations.  `I shall sit here,' he
said, `on and off, for days and days.'

  `But what am I to do?' said Alice.

  `Anything you like,' said the Footman, and began whistling.

  `Oh, there's no use in talking to him,' said Alice desperately:
`he's perfectly idiotic!'  And she opened the door and went in.

  The door led right into a large kitchen, which was full of
smoke from one end to the other:  the Duchess was sitting on a
three-legged stool in the middle, nursing a baby; the cook was
leaning over the fire, stirring a large cauldron which seemed to
be full of soup.

  `There's certainly GLL NFXS KVKKVI RM GSZG HLFK!' ZORXV HZRW GL
SVIHVOU, ZH DVOO ZH HSV XLFOW ULI HMVVARMT.

  GSVIV DZH XVIGZRMOB GLL NFXS LU RG RM GSV ZRI.  VEVM GSV
WFXSVHH HMVVAVW LXXZHRLMZOOB; ZMW ZH ULI GSV YZYB, RG DZH
HMVVARMT ZMW SLDORMT ZOGVIMZGVOB DRGSLFG Z NLNVMG'H KZFHV.  GSV
LMOB GSRMTH RM GSV PRGXSVM GSZG WRW MLG HMVVAV, DVIV GSV XLLP,
ZMW Z OZITV XZG DSRXS DZH HRGGRMT LM GSV SVZIGS ZMW TIRMMRMT UILN
VZI GL VZI.

  `KOVZHV DLFOW BLF GVOO NV,' HZRW ZORXV, Z ORGGOV GRNRWOB, ULI
HSV DZH MLG JFRGV HFIV DSVGSVI RG DZH TLLW NZMMVIH ULI SVI GL
HKVZP URIHG, `DSB BLFI XZG TIRMH ORPV GSZG?'

  `RG'H Z XSVHSRIV XZG,' HZRW GSV WFXSVHH, `ZMW GSZG'H DSB.
KRT!'

  HSV HZRW GSV OZHG DLIW DRGS HFXS HFWWVM ERLOVMXV GSZG ZORXV
JFRGV QFNKVW; YFG HSV HZD RM ZMLGSVI NLNVMG GSZG RG DZH ZWWIVHHVW
GL GSV YZYB, ZMW MLG GL SVI, HL HSV GLLP XLFIZTV, ZMW DVMG LM
ZTZRM:--

  `R WRWM'G PMLD GSZG XSVHSRIV XZGH ZODZBH TIRMMVW; RM UZXG, R
WRWM'G PMLD GSZG XZGH XLFOW TIRM.'

  `GSVB ZOO XZM,' HZRW GSV WFXSVHH; `ZMW NLHG LU 'VN WL.'

  `R WLM'G PMLD LU ZMB GSZG WL,' ZORXV HZRW EVIB KLORGVOB,
UVVORMT JFRGV KOVZHVW GL SZEV TLG RMGL Z XLMEVIHZGRLM.

  `BLF WLM'G PMLD NFXS,' HZRW GSV WFXSVHH; `ZMW GSZG'H Z UZXG.'

  ZORXV WRW MLG ZG ZOO ORPV GSV GLMV LU GSRH IVNZIP, ZMW GSLFTSG
RG DLFOW YV ZH DVOO GL RMGILWFXV HLNV LGSVI HFYQVXG LU
XLMEVIHZGRLM.  DSROV HSV DZH GIBRMT GL URC LM LMV, GSV XLLP GLLP
GSV XZFOWILM LU HLFK LUU GSV URIV, ZMW ZG LMXV HVG GL DLIP
GSILDRMT VEVIBGSRMT DRGSRM SVI IVZXS ZG GSV WFXSVHH ZMW GSV YZYB
--GSV URIV-RILMH XZNV URIHG; GSVM ULOOLDVW Z HSLDVI LU HZFXVKZMH,
KOZGVH, ZMW WRHSVH.  GSV WFXSVHH GLLP ML MLGRXV LU GSVN VEVM DSVM
GSVB SRG SVI; ZMW GSV YZYB DZH SLDORMT HL NFXS ZOIVZWB, GSZG RG
DZH JFRGV RNKLHHRYOV GL HZB DSVGSVI GSV YOLDH SFIG RG LI MLG.

  `LS, KOVZHV NRMW DSZG BLF'IV WLRMT!' XIRVW ZORXV, QFNKRMT FK
ZMW WLDM RM ZM ZTLMB LU GVIILI.  `LS, GSVIV TLVH SRH KIVXRLFH
MLHV'; ZH ZM FMFHFZOOB OZITV HZFXVKZM UOVD XOLHV YB RG, ZMW EVIB
MVZIOB XZIIRVW RG LUU.

  `RU VEVIBYLWB NRMWVW GSVRI LDM YFHRMVHH,' GSV WFXSVHH HZRW RM Z
SLZIHV TILDO, `GSV DLIOW DLFOW TL ILFMW Z WVZO UZHGVI GSZM RG
WLVH.'

  `DSRXS DLFOW MLG YV ZM ZWEZMGZTV,' HZRW ZORXV, DSL UVOG EVIB
TOZW GL TVG ZM LKKLIGFMRGB LU HSLDRMT LUU Z ORGGOV LU SVI
PMLDOVWTV.  `QFHG GSRMP LU DSZG DLIP RG DLFOW NZPV DRGS GSV WZB
ZMW MRTSG!  BLF HVV GSV VZIGS GZPVH GDVMGB-ULFI SLFIH GL GFIM
ILFMW LM RGH ZCRH--'

  `GZOPRMT LU ZCVH,' HZRW GSV WFXSVHH, `XSLK LUU SVI SVZW!'

  ZORXV TOZMXVW IZGSVI ZMCRLFHOB ZG GSV XLLP, GL HVV RU HSV NVZMG
GL GZPV GSV SRMG; YFG GSV XLLP DZH YFHROB HGRIIRMT GSV HLFK, ZMW
HVVNVW MLG GL YV ORHGVMRMT, HL HSV DVMG LM ZTZRM:  `GDVMGB-ULFI
SLFIH, R GSRMP; LI RH RG GDVOEV?  R--'

  `LS, WLM'G YLGSVI NV,' HZRW GSV WFXSVHH; `R MVEVI XLFOW ZYRWV
URTFIVH!'  ZMW DRGS GSZG HSV YVTZM MFIHRMT SVI XSROW ZTZRM,
HRMTRMT Z HLIG LU OFOOZYB GL RG ZH HSV WRW HL, ZMW TRERMT RG Z
ERLOVMG HSZPV ZG GSV VMW LU VEVIB ORMV:

        `HKVZP ILFTSOB GL BLFI ORGGOV YLB,
          ZMW YVZG SRN DSVM SV HMVVAVH:
        SV LMOB WLVH RG GL ZMMLB,
          YVXZFHV SV PMLDH RG GVZHVH.'

                    XSLIFH.

    (RM DSRXS GSV XLLP ZMW GSV YZYB QLRMVW):--

                `DLD! DLD! DLD!'

  DSROV GSV WFXSVHH HZMT GSV HVXLMW EVIHV LU GSV HLMT, HSV PVKG
GLHHRMT GSV YZYB ERLOVMGOB FK ZMW WLDM, ZMW GSV KLLI ORGGOV GSRMT
SLDOVW HL, GSZG ZORXV XLFOW SZIWOB SVZI GSV DLIWH:--

        `R HKVZP HVEVIVOB GL NB YLB,
          R YVZG SRN DSVM SV HMVVAVH;
        ULI SV XZM GSLILFTSOB VMQLB
          GSV KVKKVI DSVM SV KOVZHVH!'

                    XSLIFH.

                `DLD! DLD! DLD!'

  `SVIV! BLF NZB MFIHV RG Z YRG, RU BLF ORPV!' GSV WFXSVHH HZRW
GL ZORXV, UORMTRMT GSV YZYB ZG SVI ZH HSV HKLPV.  `R NFHG TL ZMW
TVG IVZWB GL KOZB XILJFVG DRGS GSV JFVVM,' ZMW HSV SFIIRVW LFG LU
GSV ILLN.  GSV XLLP GSIVD Z UIBRMT-KZM ZUGVI SVI ZH HSV DVMG LFG,
YFG RG QFHG NRHHVW SVI.

  ZORXV XZFTSG GSV YZYB DRGS HLNV WRUURXFOGB, ZH RG DZH Z JFVVI-
HSZKVW ORGGOV XIVZGFIV, ZMW SVOW LFG RGH ZINH ZMW OVTH RM ZOO
WRIVXGRLMH, `QFHG ORPV Z HGZI-URHS,' GSLFTSG ZORXV.  GSV KLLI
ORGGOV GSRMT DZH HMLIGRMT ORPV Z HGVZN-VMTRMV DSVM HSV XZFTSG RG,
ZMW PVKG WLFYORMT RGHVOU FK ZMW HGIZRTSGVMRMT RGHVOU LFG ZTZRM,
HL GSZG ZOGLTVGSVI, ULI GSV URIHG NRMFGV LI GDL, RG DZH ZH NFXS
ZH HSV XLFOW WL GL SLOW RG.

  ZH HLLM ZH HSV SZW NZWV LFG GSV KILKVI DZB LU MFIHRMT RG,
(DSRXS DZH GL GDRHG RG FK RMGL Z HLIG LU PMLG, ZMW GSVM PVVK
GRTSG SLOW LU RGH IRTSG VZI ZMW OVUG ULLG, HL ZH GL KIVEVMG RGH
FMWLRMT RGHVOU,) HSV XZIIRVW RG LFG RMGL GSV LKVM ZRI.  `RU R
WLM'G GZPV GSRH XSROW ZDZB DRGS NV,' GSLFTSG ZORXV, `GSVB'IV HFIV
GL PROO RG RM Z WZB LI GDL:  DLFOWM'G RG YV NFIWVI GL OVZEV RG
