grunted in reply (it had left off sneezing by this time).  `Don't
grunt,' said Alice; `that's not at all a proper way of expressing
yourself.'

  The baby grunted again, and Alice looked very anxiously into
its face to see what was the matter with it.  There could be no
doubt that it had a VERY turn-up nose, much more like a snout
than a real nose; also its eyes were getting extremely small for
a baby:  altogether Alice did not like the look of the thing at
all.  `But perhaps it was only sobbing,' she thought, and looked
into its eyes again, to see if there were any tears.

  No, there were no tears.  `If you're going to turn into a pig,
my dear,' said Alice, seriously, `I'll have nothing more to do
with you.  Mind now!'  The poor little thing sobbed again (or
grunted, it was impossible to say which), and they went on for
some while in silence.

  Alice was just beginning to think to herself, `Now, what am I
to do with this creature when I get it home?' when it grunted
again, so violently, that she looked down into its face in some
alarm.  This time there could be NO mistake about it:  it was
neither more nor less than a pig, and she felt that it would be
quite absurd for her to carry it further.

  So she set the little creature down, and felt quite relieved to
see it trot away quietly into the wood.  `If it had grown up,'
she said to herself, `it would have made a dreadfully ugly child:
but it makes rather a handsome pig, I think.'  And she began
thinking over other children she knew, who might do very well as
pigs, and was just saying to herself, `if one only knew the right
way to change them--' when she was a little startled by seeing
the Cheshire Cat sitting on a bough of a tree a few yards off.

  The Cat only grinned when it saw Alice.  It looked good-
natured, she thought:  still it had VERY long claws and a great
many teeth, so she felt that it ought to be treated with respect.

  `Cheshire Puss,' she began, rather timidly, as she did not at
all know whether it would like the name:  however, it only
grinned a little wider.  `Come, it's pleased so far,' thought
Alice, and she went on.  `Would you tell me, please, which way I
ought to go from here?'

  `That depends a good deal on where you want to get to,' said
the Cat.

  `I don't much care where--' said Alice.

  `Then it doesn't matter which way you go,' said the Cat.

  `--so long as I get SOMEWHERE,' Alice added as an explanation.

  `Oh, you're sure to do that,' said the Cat, `if you only walk
long enough.'

  Alice felt that this could not be denied, so she tried another
question.  `What sort of people live about here?'

  `In THAT direction,' the Cat said, waving its right paw round,
`lives a Hatter:  and in THAT direction,' waving the other paw,
`lives a March Hare.  Visit either you like:  they're both mad.'

  `But I don't want to go among mad people,' Alice remarked.

  `Oh, you can't help that,' said the Cat:  `we're all mad here.
I'm mad.  You're mad.'

  `How do you know I'm mad?' said Alice.

  `You must be,' said the Cat, `or you wouldn't have come here.'

  Alice didn't think that proved it at all; however, she went on
`And how do you know that you're mad?'

  `To begin with,' said the Cat, `a dog's not mad.  You grant
that?'

  `I suppose so,' said Alice.

  `Well, then,' the Cat went on, `you see, a dog growls when it's
angry, and wags its tail when it's pleased.  Now I growl when I'm
pleased, and wag my tail when I'm angry.  Therefore I'm mad.'

  `I call it purring, not growling,' said Alice.

  `Call it what you like,' said the Cat.  `Do you play croquet
with the Queen to-day?'

  `I should like it very much,' said Alice, `but I haven't been
invited yet.'

  `You'll see me there,' said the Cat, and vanished.

  Alice was not much surprised at this, she was getting so used
to queer things happening.  While she was looking at the place
where it had been, it suddenly appeared again.

  `By-the-bye, what became of the baby?' said the Cat.  `I'd
nearly forgotten to ask.'

  `It turned into a pig,' Alice quietly said, just as if it had
come back in a natural way.

  `I thought it would,' said the Cat, and vanished again.

  Alice waited a little, half expecting to see it again, but it
did not appear, and after a minute or two she walked on in the
direction in which the March Hare was said to live.  `I've seen
hatters before,' she said to herself; `the March Hare will be
much the most interesting, and perhaps as this is May it won't be
raving mad--at least not so mad as it was in March.'  As she said
this, she looked up, and there was the Cat again, sitting on a
branch of a tree.

  `Did you say pig, or fig?' said the Cat.

  `I said pig,' replied Alice; `and I wish you wouldn't keep
appearing and vanishing so suddenly:  you make one quite giddy.'

  `All right,' said the Cat; and this time it vanished quite
slowly, beginning with the end of the tail, and ending with the
grin, which remained some time after the rest of it had gone.

  `Well!  I've often seen a cat without a grin,' thought Alice;
`but a grin without a cat!  It's the most curious thing I ever
say in my life!'

  She had not gone much farther before she came in sight of the
house of the March Hare:  she thought it must be the right house,
because the chimneys were shaped like ears and the roof was
thatched with fur.  It was so large a house, that she did not
like to go nearer till she had nibbled some more of the lefthand
bit of mushroom, and raised herself to about two feet high:  even
then she walked up towards it rather timidly, saying to herself
`Suppose it should be raving mad after all!  I almost wish I'd
gone to see the Hatter instead!'



                           CHAPTER VII

                         A Mad Tea-Party


  There was a table set out under a tree in front of the house,
and the March Hare and the Hatter were having tea at it:  a
Dormouse was sitting between them, fast asleep, and the other two
were using it as a cushion, resting their elbows on it, and the
talking over its head.  `Very uncomfortable for the Dormouse,'
thought Alice; `only, as it's asleep, I suppose it doesn't mind.'

  The table was a large one, but the three were all crowded
together at one corner of it:  `No room!  No room!' they cried
out when they saw Alice coming.  `There's PLENTY of room!' said
Alice indignantly, and she sat down in a large arm-chair at one
end of the table.

  `Have some wine,' the March Hare said in an encouraging tone.

  Alice looked all round the table, but there was nothing on it
but tea.  `I don't see any wine,' she remarked.

  `There isn't any,' said the March Hare.

  `Then it wasn't very civil of you to offer it,' said Alice
angrily.

  `It wasn't very civil of you to sit down without being
invited,' said the March Hare.

  `I didn't know it was YOUR table,' said Alice; `it's laid for a
great many more than three.'

  `Your hair wants cutting,' said the Hatter.  He had been
looking at Alice for some time with great curiosity, and this was
his first speech.

  `You should learn not to make personal remarks,' Alice said
with some severity; `it's very rude.'

  The Hatter opened his eyes very wide on hearing this; but all
he SAID was, `Why is a raven like a writing-desk?'

  `Come, we shall have some fun now!' thought Alice.  `I'm glad
they've begun asking riddles.--I believe I can guess that,' she
added aloud.

  `Do you mean that you think you can find out the answer to it?'
said the March Hare.

  `Exactly so,' said Alice.

  `Then you should say what you mean,' the March Hare went on.

  `I do,' Alice hastily replied; `at least--at least I mean what
I say--that's the same thing, you know.'

  `Not the same thing a bit!' said the Hatter.  `You might just
as well say that "I see what I eat" is the same thing as "I eat
what I see"!'

  `You might just as well say,' added the March Hare, `that "I
like what I get" is the same thing as "I get what I like"!'

  `You might just as well say,' added the Dormouse, who seemed to
be talking in his sleep, `that "I breathe when I sleep" is the
same thing as "I sleep when I breathe"!'

  `It IS the same thing with you,' said the Hatter, and here the
conversation dropped, and the party sat silent for a minute,
while Alice thought over all she could remember about ravens and
writing-desks, which wasn't much.

  The Hatter was the first to break the silence.  `What day of
the month is it?' he said, turning to Alice:  he had taken his
watch out of his pocket, and was looking at it uneasily, shaking
it every now and then, and holding it to his ear.

  Alice considered a little, and then said `The fourth.'

  `Two days wrong!' sighed the Hatter.  `I told you butter
wouldn't suit the works!' he added looking angrily at the March
Hare.

  `It was the BEST butter,' the March Hare meekly replied.

  `Yes, but some crumbs must have got in as well,' the Hatter
grumbled:  `you shouldn't have put it in with the bread-knife.'

  The March Hare took the watch and looked at it gloomily:  then
he dipped it into his cup of tea, and looked at it again:  but he
could think of nothing better to say than his first remark, `It
was the BEST butter, you know.'

  Alice had been looking over his shoulder with some curiosity.
`What a funny watch!' she remarked.  `It tells the day of the
month, and doesn't tell what o'clock it is!'

  `Why should it?' muttered the Hatter.  `Does YOUR watch tell
you what year it is?'

  `Of course not,' Alice replied very readily:  `but that's
because it stays the same year for such a long time together.'

  `Which is just the case with MINE,' said the Hatter.

  Alice felt dreadfully puzzled.  The Hatter's remark seemed to
have no sort of meaning in it, and yet it was certainly English.
`I don't quite understand you,' she said, as politely as she
could.

  `The Dormouse is asleep again,' said the Hatter, and he poured
a little hot tea upon its nose.

  The Dormouse shook its head impatiently, and said, without
opening its eyes, `Of course, of course; just what I was going to
remark myself.'

  `Have you guessed the riddle yet?' the Hatter said, turning to
Alice again.

  `No, I give it up,' Alice replied:  `what's the answer?'

  `I haven't the slightest idea,' said the Hatter.

  `Nor I,' said the March Hare.

  Alice sighed wearily.  `I think you might do something better
with the time,' she said, `than waste it in asking riddles that
have no answers.'

  `If you knew Time as well as I do,' said the Hatter, `you
wouldn't talk about wasting IT.  It's HIM.'

  `I don't know what you mean,' said Alice.

  `Of course you don't!' the Hatter said, tossing his head
contemptuously.  `I dare say you never even spoke to Time!'

  `Perhaps not,' Alice cautiously replied:  `but I know I have to
beat time when I learn music.'

  `Ah! that accounts for it,' said the Hatter.  `He won't stand
beating.  Now, if you only kept on good terms with him, he'd do
almost anything you liked with the clock.  For instance, suppose
it were nine o'clock in the morning, just time to begin lessons:
you'd only have to whisper a hint to Time, and round goes the
clock in a twinkling!  Half-past one, time for dinner!'

  (`I only wish it was,' the March Hare said to itself in a
whisper.)

  `That would be grand, certainly,' said Alice thoughtfully:
`but then--I shouldn't be hungry for it, you know.'

  `Not at first, perhaps,' said the Hatter:  `but you could keep
it to half-past one as long as you liked.'

  `Is that the way YOU manage?' Alice asked.

  The Hatter shook his head mournfully.  `Not I!' he replied.
`We quarrelled last March--just before HE went mad, you know--'
(pointing with his tea spoon at the March Hare,) `--it was at the
great concert given by the Queen of Hearts, and I had to sing

            "Twinkle, twinkle, little bat!
            How I wonder what you're at!"

You know the song, perhaps?'

  `I've heard something like it,' said Alice.

  `It goes on, you know,' the Hatter continued, `in this way:--

            "Up above the world you fly,
            Like a tea-tray in the sky.
                    Twinkle, twinkle--"'

Here the Dormouse shook itself, and began singing in its sleep
`Twinkle, twinkle, twinkle, twinkle--' and went on so long that
they had to pinch it to make it stop.

  `Well, I'd hardly finished the first verse,' said the Hatter,
`when the Queen jumped up and bawled out, "He's murdering the
time!  Off with his head!"'

  `How dreadfully savage!' exclaimed Alice.

  `And ever since that,' the Hatter went on in a mournful tone,
`he won't do a thing I ask!  It's always six o'clock now.'

  A bright idea came into Alice's head.  `Is that the reason so
many tea-things are put out here?' she asked.

  `Yes, that's it,' said the Hatter with a sigh:  `it's always
tea-time, and we've no time to wash the things between whiles.'

  `Then you keep moving round, I suppose?' said Alice.

  `Exactly so,' said the Hatter:  `as the things get used up.'

  `But what happens when you come to the beginning again?' Alice
ventured to aHP.

  `HFKKLHV DV XSZMTV GSV HFYQVXG,' GSV NZIXS SZIV RMGVIIFKGVW,
BZDMRMT.  `R'N TVGGRMT GRIVW LU GSRH.  R ELGV GSV BLFMT OZWB
GVOOH FH Z HGLIB.'

  `R'N ZUIZRW R WLM'G PMLD LMV,' HZRW ZORXV, IZGSVI ZOZINVW ZG
GSV KILKLHZO.

  `GSVM GSV WLINLFHV HSZOO!' GSVB YLGS XIRVW.  `DZPV FK,
WLINLFHV!'  ZMW GSVB KRMXSVW RG LM YLGS HRWVH ZG LMXV.

  GSV WLINLFHV HOLDOB LKVMVW SRH VBVH.  `R DZHM'G ZHOVVK,' SV
HZRW RM Z SLZIHV, UVVYOV ELRXV:  `R SVZIW VEVIB DLIW BLF UVOOLDH
DVIV HZBRMT.'

  `GVOO FH Z HGLIB!' HZRW GSV NZIXS SZIV.

  `BVH, KOVZHV WL!' KOVZWVW ZORXV.

  `ZMW YV JFRXP ZYLFG RG,' ZWWVW GSV SZGGVI, `LI BLF'OO YV ZHOVVK
ZTZRM YVULIV RG'H WLMV.'

  `LMXV FKLM Z GRNV GSVIV DVIV GSIVV ORGGOV HRHGVIH,' GSV
WLINLFHV YVTZM RM Z TIVZG SFIIB; `ZMW GSVRI MZNVH DVIV VOHRV,
OZXRV, ZMW GROORV; ZMW GSVB OREVW ZG GSV YLGGLN LU Z DVOO--'

  `DSZG WRW GSVB OREV LM?' HZRW ZORXV, DSL ZODZBH GLLP Z TIVZG
RMGVIVHG RM JFVHGRLMH LU VZGRMT ZMW WIRMPRMT.

  `GSVB OREVW LM GIVZXOV,' HZRW GSV WLINLFHV, ZUGVI GSRMPRMT Z
NRMFGV LI GDL.

  `GSVB XLFOWM'G SZEV WLMV GSZG, BLF PMLD,' ZORXV TVMGOB
IVNZIPVW; `GSVB'W SZEV YVVM ROO.'

  `HL GSVB DVIV,' HZRW GSV WLINLFHV; `EVIB ROO.'

  ZORXV GIRVW GL UZMXB GL SVIHVOU DSZG HFXS ZM VCGIZLIWRMZIB DZBH
LU ORERMT DLFOW YV ORPV, YFG RG KFAAOVW SVI GLL NFXS, HL HSV DVMG
LM:  `YFG DSB WRW GSVB OREV ZG GSV YLGGLN LU Z DVOO?'

  `GZPV HLNV NLIV GVZ,' GSV NZIXS SZIV HZRW GL ZORXV, EVIB
VZIMVHGOB.

  `R'EV SZW MLGSRMT BVG,' ZORXV IVKORVW RM ZM LUUVMWVW GLMV, `HL
R XZM'G GZPV NLIV.'

  `BLF NVZM BLF XZM'G GZPV OVHH,' HZRW GSV SZGGVI:  `RG'H EVIB
VZHB GL GZPV NLIV GSZM MLGSRMT.'

  `MLYLWB ZHPVW BLFI LKRMRLM,' HZRW ZORXV.

  `DSL'H NZPRMT KVIHLMZO IVNZIPH MLD?' GSV SZGGVI ZHPVW
GIRFNKSZMGOB.

  ZORXV WRW MLG JFRGV PMLD DSZG GL HZB GL GSRH:  HL HSV SVOKVW
SVIHVOU GL HLNV GVZ ZMW YIVZW-ZMW-YFGGVI, ZMW GSVM GFIMVW GL GSV
WLINLFHV, ZMW IVKVZGVW SVI JFVHGRLM.  `DSB WRW GSVB OREV ZG GSV
YLGGLN LU Z DVOO?'

  GSV WLINLFHV ZTZRM GLLP Z NRMFGV LI GDL GL GSRMP ZYLFG RG, ZMW
GSVM HZRW, `RG DZH Z GIVZXOV-DVOO.'

  `GSVIV'H ML HFXS GSRMT!'  ZORXV DZH YVTRMMRMT EVIB ZMTIROB, YFG
GSV SZGGVI ZMW GSV NZIXS SZIV DVMG `HS! HS!' ZMW GSV WLINLFHV
HFOPROB IVNZIPVW, `RU BLF XZM'G YV XRERO, BLF'W YVGGVI URMRHS GSV
HGLIB ULI BLFIHVOU.'

  `ML, KOVZHV TL LM!' ZORXV HZRW EVIB SFNYOB; `R DLM'G RMGVIIFKG
ZTZRM.  R WZIV HZB GSVIV NZB YV LMV.'

  `LMV, RMWVVW!' HZRW GSV WLINLFHV RMWRTMZMGOB.  SLDVEVI, SV
XLMHVMGVW GL TL LM.  `ZMW HL GSVHV GSIVV ORGGOV HRHGVIH--GSVB
DVIV OVZIMRMT GL WIZD, BLF PMLD--'

  `DSZG WRW GSVB WIZD?' HZRW ZORXV, JFRGV ULITVGGRMT SVI KILNRHV.

  `GIVZXOV,' HZRW GSV WLINLFHV, DRGSLFG XLMHRWVIRMT ZG ZOO GSRH
GRNV.

  `R DZMG Z XOVZM XFK,' RMGVIIFKGVW GSV SZGGVI:  `OVG'H ZOO NLEV
LMV KOZXV LM.'

  SV NLEVW LM ZH SV HKLPV, ZMW GSV WLINLFHV ULOOLDVW SRN:  GSV
NZIXS SZIV NLEVW RMGL GSV WLINLFHV'H KOZXV, ZMW ZORXV IZGSVI
FMDROORMTOB GLLP GSV KOZXV LU GSV NZIXS SZIV.  GSV SZGGVI DZH GSV
LMOB LMV DSL TLG ZMB ZWEZMGZTV UILN GSV XSZMTV:  ZMW ZORXV DZH Z
TLLW WVZO DLIHV LUU GSZM YVULIV, ZH GSV NZIXS SZIV SZW QFHG FKHVG
GSV NROP-QFT RMGL SRH KOZGV.

  ZORXV WRW MLG DRHS GL LUUVMW GSV WLINLFHV ZTZRM, HL HSV YVTZM
EVIB XZFGRLFHOB:  `YFG R WLM'G FMWVIHGZMW.  DSVIV WRW GSVB WIZD
GSV GIVZXOV UILN?'

  `BLF XZM WIZD DZGVI LFG LU Z DZGVI-DVOO,' HZRW GSV SZGGVI; `HL
R HSLFOW GSRMP BLF XLFOW WIZD GIVZXOV LFG LU Z GIVZXOV-DVOO--VS,
HGFKRW?'

  `YFG GSVB DVIV RM GSV DVOO,' ZORXV HZRW GL GSV WLINLFHV, MLG
XSLLHRMT GL MLGRXV GSRH OZHG IVNZIP.

  `LU XLFIHV GSVB DVIV', HZRW GSV WLINLFHV; `--DVOO RM.'

  GSRH ZMHDVI HL XLMUFHVW KLLI ZORXV, GSZG HSV OVG GSV WLINLFHV
TL LM ULI HLNV GRNV DRGSLFG RMGVIIFKGRMT RG.

  `GSVB DVIV OVZIMRMT GL WIZD,' GSV WLINLFHV DVMG LM, BZDMRMT ZMW
IFYYRMT RGH VBVH, ULI RG DZH TVGGRMT EVIB HOVVKB; `ZMW GSVB WIVD
ZOO NZMMVI LU GSRMTH--VEVIBGSRMT GSZG YVTRMH DRGS ZM N--'

  `DSB DRGS ZM N?' HZRW ZORXV.

  `DSB MLG?' HZRW GSV NZIXS SZIV.

  ZORXV DZH HROVMG.

  GSV WLINLFHV SZW XOLHVW RGH VBVH YB GSRH GRNV, ZMW DZH TLRMT
LUU RMGL Z WLAV; YFG, LM YVRMT KRMXSVW YB GSV SZGGVI, RG DLPV FK
ZTZRM DRGS Z ORGGOV HSIRVP, ZMW DVMG LM:  `--GSZG YVTRMH DRGS ZM
N, HFXS ZH NLFHV-GIZKH, ZMW GSV NLLM, ZMW NVNLIB, ZMW NFXSMVHH--
BLF PMLD BLF HZB GSRMTH ZIV "NFXS LU Z NFXSMVHH"--WRW BLF VEVI
HVV HFXS Z GSRMT ZH Z WIZDRMT LU Z NFXSMVHH?'

  `IVZOOB, MLD BLF ZHP NV,' HZRW ZORXV, EVIB NFXS XLMUFHVW, `R
WLM'G GSRMP--'

  `GSVM BLF HSLFOWM'G GZOP,' HZRW GSV SZGGVI.

  GSRH KRVXV LU IFWVMVHH DZH NLIV GSZM ZORXV XLFOW YVZI:  HSV TLG
FK RM TIVZG WRHTFHG, ZMW DZOPVW LUU; GSV WLINLFHV UVOO ZHOVVK
RMHGZMGOB, ZMW MVRGSVI LU GSV LGSVIH GLLP GSV OVZHG MLGRXV LU SVI
TLRMT, GSLFTS HSV OLLPVW YZXP LMXV LI GDRXV, SZOU SLKRMT GSZG
GSVB DLFOW XZOO ZUGVI SVI:  GSV OZHG GRNV HSV HZD GSVN, GSVB DVIV
GIBRMT GL KFG GSV WLINLFHV RMGL GSV GVZKLG.

  `ZG ZMB IZGV R'OO MVEVI TL GSVIV ZTZRM!' HZRW ZORXV ZH HSV
KRXPVW SVI DZB GSILFTS GSV DLLW.  `RG'H GSV HGFKRWVHG GVZ-KZIGB R
VEVI DZH ZG RM ZOO NB ORUV!'

  QFHG ZH HSV HZRW GSRH, HSV MLGRXVW GSZG LMV LU GSV GIVVH SZW Z
WLLI OVZWRMT IRTSG RMGL RG.  `GSZG'H EVIB XFIRLFH!' HSV GSLFTSG.
`YFG VEVIBGSRMT'H XFIRLFH GLWZB.  R GSRMP R NZB ZH DVOO TL RM ZG
LMXV.'  ZMW RM HSV DVMG.

  LMXV NLIV HSV ULFMW SVIHVOU RM GSV OLMT SZOO, ZMW XOLHV GL GSV
ORGGOV TOZHH GZYOV.  `MLD, R'OO NZMZTV YVGGVI GSRH GRNV,' HSV
HZRW GL SVIHVOU, ZMW YVTZM YB GZPRMT GSV ORGGOV TLOWVM PVB, ZMW
FMOLXPRMT GSV WLLI GSZG OVW RMGL GSV TZIWVM.  GSVM HSV DVMG GL
DLIP MRYYORMT ZG GSV NFHSILLN (HSV SZW PVKG Z KRVXV LU RG RM SVI
KLXPVW) GROO HSV DZH ZYLFG Z ULLG SRTS:  GSVM HSV DZOPVW WLDM GSV
ORGGOV KZHHZTV:  ZMW GSVM--HSV ULFMW SVIHVOU ZG OZHG RM GSV
YVZFGRUFO TZIWVM, ZNLMT GSV YIRTSG UOLDVI-YVWH ZMW GSV XLLO
ULFMGZRMH.



                          XSZKGVI ERRR

                   GSV JFVVM'H XILJFVG-TILFMW


  Z OZITV ILHV-GIVV HGLLW MVZI GSV VMGIZMXV LU GSV TZIWVM:  GSV
ILHVH TILDRMT LM RG DVIV DSRGV, YFG GSVIV DVIV GSIVV TZIWVMVIH ZG
RG, YFHROB KZRMGRMT GSVN IVW.  ZORXV GSLFTSG GSRH Z EVIB XFIRLFH
GSRMT, ZMW HSV DVMG MVZIVI GL DZGXS GSVN, ZMW QFHG ZH HSV XZNV FK
GL GSVN HSV SVZIW LMV LU GSVN HZB, `OLLP LFG MLD, UREV!  WLM'G TL
HKOZHSRMT KZRMG LEVI NV ORPV GSZG!'

  `R XLFOWM'G SVOK RG,' HZRW UREV, RM Z HFOPB GLMV; `HVEVM QLTTVW
NB VOYLD.'

  LM DSRXS HVEVM OLLPVW FK ZMW HZRW, `GSZG'H IRTSG, UREV!  ZODZBH
OZB GSV YOZNV LM LGSVIH!'

  `BLF'W YVGGVI MLG GZOP!' HZRW UREV.  `R SVZIW GSV JFVVM HZB LMOB
BVHGVIWZB BLF WVHVIEVW GL YV YVSVZWVW!'

  `DSZG ULI?' HZRW GSV LMV DSL SZW HKLPVM URIHG.

  `GSZG'H MLMV LU BLFI YFHRMVHH, GDL!' HZRW HVEVM.

  `BVH, RG RH SRH YFHRMVHH!' HZRW UREV, `ZMW R'OO GVOO SRN--RG
DZH ULI YIRMTRMT GSV XLLP GFORK-ILLGH RMHGVZW LU LMRLMH.'

  HVEVM UOFMT WLDM SRH YIFHS, ZMW SZW QFHG YVTFM `DVOO, LU ZOO
GSV FMQFHG GSRMTH--' DSVM SRH VBV XSZMXVW GL UZOO FKLM ZORXV, ZH
HSV HGLLW DZGXSRMT GSVN, ZMW SV XSVXPVW SRNHVOU HFWWVMOB:  GSV
LGSVIH OLLPVW ILFMW ZOHL, ZMW ZOO LU GSVN YLDVW OLD.

  `DLFOW BLF GVOO NV,' HZRW ZORXV, Z ORGGOV GRNRWOB, `DSB BLF ZIV
KZRMGRMT GSLHV ILHVH?'

  UREV ZMW HVEVM HZRW MLGSRMT, YFG OLLPVW ZG GDL.  GDL YVTZM RM Z
OLD ELRXV, `DSB GSV UZXG RH, BLF HVV, NRHH, GSRH SVIV LFTSG GL
SZEV YVVM Z IVW ILHV-GIVV, ZMW DV KFG Z DSRGV LMV RM YB NRHGZPV;
ZMW RU GSV JFVVM DZH GL URMW RG LFG, DV HSLFOW ZOO SZEV LFI SVZWH
XFG LUU, BLF PMLD.  HL BLF HVV, NRHH, DV'IV WLRMT LFI YVHG, ZULIV
HSV XLNVH, GL--'  ZG GSRH NLNVMG UREV, DSL SZW YVVM ZMCRLFHOB
OLLPRMT ZXILHH GSV TZIWVM, XZOOVW LFG `GSV JFVVM!  GSV JFVVM!'
ZMW GSV GSIVV TZIWVMVIH RMHGZMGOB GSIVD GSVNHVOEVH UOZG FKLM
GSVRI UZXVH.  GSVIV DZH Z HLFMW LU NZMB ULLGHGVKH, ZMW ZORXV
OLLPVW ILFMW, VZTVI GL HVV GSV JFVVM.

  URIHG XZNV GVM HLOWRVIH XZIIBRMT XOFYH; GSVHV DVIV ZOO HSZKVW
ORPV GSV GSIVV TZIWVMVIH, LYOLMT ZMW UOZG, DRGS GSVRI SZMWH ZMW
UVVG ZG GSV XLIMVIH:  MVCG GSV GVM XLFIGRVIH; GSVHV DVIV
LIMZNVMGVW ZOO LEVI DRGS WRZNLMWH, ZMW DZOPVW GDL ZMW GDL, ZH GSV
HLOWRVIH WRW.  ZUGVI GSVHV XZNV GSV ILBZO XSROWIVM; GSVIV DVIV
GVM LU GSVN, ZMW GSV ORGGOV WVZIH XZNV QFNKRMT NVIIROB ZOLMT SZMW
RM SZMW, RM XLFKOVH:  GSVB DVIV ZOO LIMZNVMGVW DRGS SVZIGH.  MVCG
XZNV GSV TFVHGH, NLHGOB PRMTH ZMW JFVVMH, ZMW ZNLMT GSVN ZORXV
IVXLTMRHVW GSV DSRGV IZYYRG:  RG DZH GZOPRMT RM Z SFIIRVW MVIELFH
NZMMVI, HNRORMT ZG VEVIBGSRMT GSZG DZH HZRW, ZMW DVMG YB DRGSLFG
MLGRXRMT SVI.  GSVM ULOOLDVW GSV PMZEV LU SVZIGH, XZIIBRMT GSV
PRMT'H XILDM LM Z XIRNHLM EVOEVG XFHSRLM; ZMW, OZHG LU ZOO GSRH
TIZMW KILXVHHRLM, XZNV GSV PRMT ZMW JFVVM LU SVZIGH.

  ZORXV DZH IZGSVI WLFYGUFO DSVGSVI HSV LFTSG MLG GL ORV WLDM LM
SVI UZXV ORPV GSV GSIVV TZIWVMVIH, YFG HSV XLFOW MLG IVNVNYVI
VEVIB SZERMT SVZIW LU HFXS Z IFOV ZG KILXVHHRLMH; `ZMW YVHRWVH,
DSZG DLFOW YV GSV FHV LU Z KILXVHHRLM,' GSLFTSG HSV, `RU KVLKOV
SZW ZOO GL ORV WLDM FKLM GSVRI UZXVH, HL GSZG GSVB XLFOWM'G HVV
RG?'  HL HSV HGLLW HGROO DSVIV HSV DZH, ZMW DZRGVW.

  DSVM GSV KILXVHHRLM XZNV LKKLHRGV GL ZORXV, GSVB ZOO HGLKKVW
ZMW OLLPVW ZG SVI, ZMW GSV JFVVM HZRW HVEVIVOB `DSL RH GSRH?'
HSV HZRW RG GL GSV PMZEV LU SVZIGH, DSL LMOB YLDVW ZMW HNROVW RM
IVKOB.

  `RWRLG!' HZRW GSV JFVVM, GLHHRMT SVI SVZW RNKZGRVMGOB; ZMW,
GFIMRMT GL ZORXV, HSV DVMG LM, `DSZG'H BLFI MZNV, XSROW?'

  `NB MZNV RH ZORXV, HL KOVZHV BLFI NZQVHGB,' HZRW ZORXV EVIB
KLORGVOB; YFG HSV ZWWVW, GL SVIHVOU, `DSB, GSVB'IV LMOB Z KZXP LU
XZIWH, ZUGVI ZOO.  R MVVWM'G YV ZUIZRW LU GSVN!'

  `ZMW DSL ZIV GSVHV?' HZRW GSV JFVVM, KLRMGRMT GL GSV GSIVV
TZIWVMVIH DSL DVIV OBRMT ILFMW GSV ILHVGIVV; ULI, BLF HVV, ZH
GSVB DVIV OBRMT LM GSVRI UZXVH, ZMW GSV KZGGVIM LM GSVRI YZXPH
DZH GSV HZNV ZH GSV IVHG LU GSV KZXP, HSV XLFOW MLG GVOO DSVGSVI
GSVB DVIV TZIWVMVIH, LI HLOWRVIH, LI XLFIGRVIH, LI GSIVV LU SVI
LDM XSROWIVM.

  `SLD HSLFOW R PMLD?' HZRW ZORXV, HFIKIRHVW ZG SVI LDM XLFIZTV.
`RG'H ML YFHRMVHH LU NRMV.'

  GSV JFVVM GFIMVW XIRNHLM DRGS UFIB, ZMW, ZUGVI TOZIRMT ZG SVI
ULI Z NLNVMG ORPV Z DROW YVZHG, HXIVZNVW `LUU DRGS SVI SVZW!
LUU--'

  `MLMHVMHV!' HZRW ZORXV, EVIB OLFWOB ZMW WVXRWVWOB, ZMW GSV
JFVVM DZH HROVMG.

  GSV PRMT OZRW SRH SZMW FKLM SVI ZIN, ZMW GRNRWOB HZRW
`XLMHRWVI, NB WVZI:  HSV RH LMOB Z XSROW!'

  GSV JFVVM GFIMVW ZMTIROB ZDZB UILN SRN, ZMW HZRW GL GSV PMZEV
`GFIM GSVN LEVI!'

  GSV PMZEV WRW HL, EVIB XZIVUFOOB, DRGS LMV ULLG.

  `TVG FK!' HZRW GSV JFVVM, RM Z HSIROO, OLFW ELRXV, ZMW GSV
GSIVV TZIWVMVIH RMHGZMGOB QFNKVW FK, ZMW YVTZM YLDRMT GL GSV
PRMT, GSV JFVVM, GSV ILBZO XSROWIVM, ZMW VEVIBYLWB VOHV.

  `OVZEV LUU GSZG!' HXIVZNVW GSV JFVVM.  `BLF NZPV NV TRWWB.'
ZMW GSVM, GFIMRMT GL GSV ILHV-GIVV, HSV DVMG LM, `DSZG SZEV BLF
YVVM WLRMT SVIV?'

  `NZB RG KOVZHV BLFI NZQVHGB,' HZRW GDL, RM Z EVIB SFNYOV GLMV,
TLRMT WLDM LM LMV PMVV ZH SV HKLPV, `DV DVIV GIBRMT--'

  `R HVV!' HZRW GSV JFVVM, DSL SZW NVZMDSROV YVVM VCZNRMRMT GSV
ILHVH.  `LUU DRGS GSVRI SVZWH!' ZMW GSV KILXVHHRLM NLEVW LM,
GSIVV LU GSV HLOWRVIH IVNZRMRMT YVSRMW GL VCVXFGV GSV FMULIGFMZGV
TZIWVMVIH, DSL IZM GL ZORXV ULI KILGVXGRLM.

  `BLF HSZM'G YV YVSVZWVW!' HZRW ZORXV, ZMW HSV KFG GSVN RMGL Z
OZITV UOLDVI-KLG GSZG HGLLW MVZI.  GSV GSIVV HLOWRVIH DZMWVIVW
ZYLFG ULI Z NRMFGV LI GDL, OLLPRMT ULI GSVN, ZMW GSVM JFRVGOB
NZIXSVW LUU ZUGVI GSV LGSVIH.

  `ZIV GSVRI SVZWH LUU?' HSLFGVW GSV JFVVM.

  `GSVRI SVZWH ZIV TLMV, RU RG KOVZHV BLFI NZQVHGB!' GSV HLOWRVIH
HSLFGVW RM IVKOB.

  `GSZG'H IRTSG!' HSLFGVW GSV JFVVM.  `XZM BLF KOZB XILJFVG?'

  GSV HLOWRVIH DVIV HROVMG, ZMW OLLPVW ZG ZORXV, ZH GSV JFVHGRLM
DZH VERWVMGOB NVZMG ULI SVI.

  `BVH!' HSLFGVW ZORXV.

  `XLNV LM, GSVM!' ILZIVW GSV JFVVM, ZMW ZORXV QLRMVW GSV
KILXVHHRLM, DLMWVIRMT EVIB NFXS DSZG DLFOW SZKKVM MVCG.

  `RG'H--RG'H Z EVIB URMV WZB!' HZRW Z GRNRW ELRXV ZG SVI HRWV.
HSV DZH DZOPRMT YB GSV DSRGV IZYYRG, DSL DZH KVVKRMT ZMCRLFHOB
RMGL SVI UZXV.

  `EVIB,' HZRW ZORXV:  `--DSVIV'H GSV WFXSVHH?'

  `SFHS!  SFHS!' HZRW GSV IZYYRG RM Z OLD, SFIIRVW GLMV.  SV
OLLPVW ZMCRLFHOB LEVI SRH HSLFOWVI ZH SV HKLPV, ZMW GSVM IZRHVW
SRNHVOU FKLM GRKGLV, KFG SRH NLFGS XOLHV GL SVI VZI, ZMW
DSRHKVIVW `HSV'H FMWVI HVMGVMXV LU VCVXFGRLM.'

  `DSZG ULI?' HZRW ZORXV.

  `WRW BLF HZB "DSZG Z KRGB!"?' GSV IZYYRG ZHPVW.

  `ML, R WRWM'G,' HZRW ZORXV:  `R WLM'G GSRMP RG'H ZG ZOO Z KRGB.
R HZRW "DSZG ULI?"'

  `HSV YLCVW GSV JFVVM'H VZIH--' GSV IZYYRG YVTZM.  ZORXV TZEV Z
ORGGOV HXIVZN LU OZFTSGVI.  `LS, SFHS!' GSV IZYYRG DSRHKVIVW RM Z
UIRTSGVMVW GLMV.  `GSV JFVVM DROO SVZI BLF!  BLF HVV, HSV XZNV
IZGSVI OZGV, ZMW GSV JFVVM HZRW--'

  `TVG GL BLFI KOZXVH!' HSLFGVW GSV JFVVM RM Z ELRXV LU GSFMWVI,
ZMW KVLKOV YVTZM IFMMRMT ZYLFG RM ZOO WRIVXGRLMH, GFNYORMT FK
ZTZRMHG VZXS LGSVI; SLDVEVI, GSVB TLG HVGGOVW WLDM RM Z NRMFGV LI
GDL, ZMW GSV TZNV YVTZM.  ZORXV GSLFTSG HSV SZW MVEVI HVVM HFXS Z
XFIRLFH XILJFVG-TILFMW RM SVI ORUV; RG DZH ZOO IRWTVH ZMW
UFIILDH; GSV YZOOH DVIV OREV SVWTVSLTH, GSV NZOOVGH OREV
UOZNRMTLVH, ZMW GSV HLOWRVIH SZW GL WLFYOV GSVNHVOEVH FK ZMW GL
HGZMW LM GSVRI SZMWH ZMW UVVG, GL NZPV GSV ZIXSVH.

  GSV XSRVU WRUURXFOGB ZORXV ULFMW ZG URIHG DZH RM NZMZTRMT SVI
UOZNRMTL:  HSV HFXXVVWVW RM TVGGRMT RGH YLWB GFXPVW ZDZB,
XLNULIGZYOB VMLFTS, FMWVI SVI ZIN, DRGS RGH OVTH SZMTRMT WLDM,
YFG TVMVIZOOB, QFHG ZH HSV SZW TLG RGH MVXP MRXVOB HGIZRTSGVMVW
LFG, ZMW DZH TLRMT GL TREV GSV SVWTVSLT Z YOLD DRGS RGH SVZW, RG
DLFOW GDRHG RGHVOU ILFMW ZMW OLLP FK RM SVI UZXV, DRGS HFXS Z
KFAAOVW VCKIVHHRLM GSZG HSV XLFOW MLG SVOK YFIHGRMT LFG OZFTSRMT:
ZMW DSVM HSV SZW TLG RGH SVZW WLDM, ZMW DZH TLRMT GL YVTRM ZTZRM,
RG DZH EVIB KILELPRMT GL URMW GSZG GSV SVWTVSLT SZW FMILOOVW
RGHVOU, ZMW DZH RM GSV ZXG LU XIZDORMT ZDZB:  YVHRWVH ZOO GSRH,
GSVIV DZH TVMVIZOOB Z IRWTV LI UFIILD RM GSV DZB DSVIVEVI HSV
DZMGVW GL HVMW GSV SVWTVSLT GL, ZMW, ZH GSV WLFYOVW-FK HLOWRVIH
DVIV ZODZBH TVGGRMT FK ZMW DZOPRMT LUU GL LGSVI KZIGH LU GSV
TILFMW, ZORXV HLLM XZNV GL GSV XLMXOFHRLM GSZG RG DZH Z EVIB
WRUURXFOG TZNV RMWVVW.

  GSV KOZBVIH ZOO KOZBVW ZG LMXV DRGSLFG DZRGRMT ULI GFIMH,
JFZIIVOORMT ZOO GSV DSROV, ZMW URTSGRMT ULI GSV SVWTVSLTH; ZMW RM
Z EVIB HSLIG GRNV GSV JFVVM DZH RM Z UFIRLFH KZHHRLM, ZMW DVMG
HGZNKRMT ZYLFG, ZMW HSLFGRMT `LUU DRGS SRH SVZW!' LI `LUU DRGS
SVI SVZW!' ZYLFG LMXV RM Z NRMFGV.

  ZORXV YVTZM GL UVVO EVIB FMVZHB:  GL YV HFIV, HSV SZW MLG ZH
BVG SZW ZMB WRHKFGV DRGS GSV JFVVM, YFG HSV PMVD GSZG RG NRTSG
SZKKVM ZMB NRMFGV, `ZMW GSVM,' GSLFTSG HSV, `DSZG DLFOW YVXLNV LU
NV?  GSVB'IV WIVZWUFOOB ULMW LU YVSVZWRMT KVLKOV SVIV; GSV TIVZG
DLMWVI RH, GSZG GSVIV'H ZMB LMV OVUG ZOREV!'

  HSV DZH OLLPRMT ZYLFG ULI HLNV DZB LU VHXZKV, ZMW DLMWVIRMT
DSVGSVI HSV XLFOW TVG ZDZB DRGSLFG YVRMT HVVM, DSVM HSV MLGRXVW Z
XFIRLFH ZKKVZIZMXV RM GSV ZRI:  RG KFAAOVW SVI EVIB NFXS ZG
URIHG, YFG, ZUGVI DZGXSRMT RG Z NRMFGV LI GDL, HSV NZWV RG LFG GL
YV Z TIRM, ZMW HSV HZRW GL SVIHVOU `RG'H GSV XSVHSRIV XZG:  MLD R
HSZOO SZEV HLNVYLWB GL GZOP GL.'

  `SLD ZIV BLF TVGGRMT LM?' HZRW GSV XZG, ZH HLLM ZH GSVIV DZH
NLFGS VMLFTS ULI RG GL HKVZP DRGS.

  ZORXV DZRGVW GROO GSV VBVH ZKKVZIVW, ZMW GSVM MLWWVW.  `RG'H ML
FHV HKVZPRMT GL RG,' HSV GSLFTSG, `GROO RGH VZIH SZEV XLNV, LI ZG
OVZHG LMV LU GSVN.'  RM ZMLGSVI NRMFGV GSV DSLOV SVZW ZKKVZIVW,
ZMW GSVM ZORXV KFG WLDM SVI UOZNRMTL, ZMW YVTZM ZM ZXXLFMG LU GSV
TZNV, UVVORMT EVIB TOZW HSV SZW HLNVLMV GL ORHGVM GL SVI.  GSV
XZG HVVNVW GL GSRMP GSZG GSVIV DZH VMLFTS LU RG MLD RM HRTSG, ZMW
ML NLIV LU RG ZKKVZIVW.

  `R WLM'G GSRMP GSVB KOZB ZG ZOO UZRIOB,' ZORXV YVTZM, RM IZGSVI
Z XLNKOZRMRMT GLMV, `ZMW GSVB ZOO JFZIIVO HL WIVZWUFOOB LMV XZM'G
SVZI LMVHVOU HKVZP--ZMW GSVB WLM'G HVVN GL SZEV ZMB IFOVH RM
KZIGRXFOZI; ZG OVZHG, RU GSVIV ZIV, MLYLWB ZGGVMWH GL GSVN--ZMW
BLF'EV ML RWVZ SLD XLMUFHRMT RG RH ZOO GSV GSRMTH YVRMT ZOREV;
ULI RMHGZMXV, GSVIV'H GSV ZIXS R'EV TLG GL TL GSILFTS MVCG
DZOPRMT ZYLFG ZG GSV LGSVI VMW LU GSV TILFMW--ZMW R HSLFOW SZEV
XILJFVGVW GSV JFVVM'H SVWTVSLT QFHG MLD, LMOB RG IZM ZDZB DSVM RG
HZD NRMV XLNRMT!'

  `SLD WL BLF ORPV GSV JFVVM?' HZRW GSV XZG RM Z OLD ELRXV.

  `MLG ZG ZOO,' HZRW ZORXV:  `HSV'H HL VCGIVNVOB--'  QFHG GSVM
HSV MLGRXVW GSZG GSV JFVVM DZH XOLHV YVSRMW SVI, ORHGVMRMT:  HL
HSV DVMG LM, `--ORPVOB GL DRM, GSZG RG'H SZIWOB DLIGS DSROV
URMRHSRMT GSV TZNV.'

  GSV JFVVM HNROVW ZMW KZHHVW LM.

