looking at the Cat's head with great curiosity.

  `It's a friend of mine--a Cheshire Cat,' said Alice:  `allow me
to introduce it.'

  `I don't like the look of it at all,' said the King:  `however,
it may kiss my hand if it likes.'

  `I'd rather not,' the Cat remarked.

  `Don't be impertinent,' said the King, `and don't look at me
like that!'  He got behind Alice as he spoke.

  `A cat may look at a king,' said Alice.  `I've read that in
some book, but I don't remember where.'

  `Well, it must be removed,' said the King very decidedly, and
he called the Queen, who was passing at the moment, `My dear!  I
wish you would have this cat removed!'

  The Queen had only one way of settling all difficulties, great
or small.  `Off with his head!' she said, without even looking
round.

  `I'll fetch the executioner myself,' said the King eagerly, and
he hurried off.

  Alice thought she might as well go back, and see how the game
was going on, as she heard the Queen's voice in the distance,
screaming with passion.  She had already heard her sentence three
of the players to be executed for having missed their turns, and
she did not like the look of things at all, as the game was in
such confusion that she never knew whether it was her turn or
not.  So she went in search of her hedgehog.

  The hedgehog was engaged in a fight with another hedgehog,
which seemed to Alice an excellent opportunity for croqueting one
of them with the other:  the only difficulty was, that her
flamingo was gone across to the other side of the garden, where
Alice could see it trying in a helpless sort of way to fly up
into a tree.

  By the time she had caught the flamingo and brought it back,
the fight was over, and both the hedgehogs were out of sight:
`but it doesn't matter much,' thought Alice, `as all the arches
are gone from this side of the ground.'  So she tucked it away
under her arm, that it might not escape again, and went back for
a little more conversation with her friend.

  When she got back to the Cheshire Cat, she was surprised to
find quite a large crowd collected round it:  there was a dispute
going on between the executioner, the King, and the Queen, who
were all talking at once, while all the rest were quite silent,
and looked very uncomfortable.

  The moment Alice appeared, she was appealed to by all three to
settle the question, and they repeated their arguments to her,
though, as they all spoke at once, she found it very hard indeed
to make out exactly what they said.

  The executioner's argument was, that you couldn't cut off a
head unless there was a body to cut it off from:  that he had
never had to do such a thing before, and he wasn't going to begin
at HIS time of life.

  The King's argument was, that anything that had a head could be
beheaded, and that you weren't to talk nonsense.

  The Queen's argument was, that if something wasn't done about
it in less than no time she'd have everybody executed, all round.
(It was this last remark that had made the whole party look so
grave and anxious.)

  Alice could think of nothing else to say but `It belongs to the
Duchess:  you'd better ask HER about it.'

  `She's in prison,' the Queen said to the executioner:  `fetch
her here.'  And the executioner went off like an arrow.

   The Cat's head began fading away the moment he was gone, and,
by the time he had come back with the Dutchess, it had entirely
disappeared; so the King and the executioner ran wildly up and
down looking for it, while the rest of the party went back to the game.



                           CHAPTER IX

                     The Mock Turtle's Story


  `You can't think how glad I am to see you again, you dear old
thing!' said the Duchess, as she tucked her arm affectionately
into Alice's, and they walked off together.

  Alice was very glad to find her in such a pleasant temper, and
thought to herself that perhaps it was only the pepper that had
made her so savage when they met in the kitchen.

  `When I'M a Duchess,' she said to herself, (not in a very
hopeful tone though), `I won't have any pepper in my kitchen AT
ALL.  Soup does very well without--Maybe it's always pepper that
makes people hot-tempered,' she went on, very much pleased at
having found out a new kind of rule, `and vinegar that makes them
sour--and camomile that makes them bitter--and--and barley-sugar
and such things that make children sweet-tempered.  I only wish
people knew that:  then they wouldn't be so stingy about it, you
know--'

  She had quite forgotten the Duchess by this time, and was a
little startled when she heard her voice close to her ear.
`You're thinking about something, my dear, and that makes you
forget to talk.  I can't tell you just now what the moral of that
is, but I shall remember it in a bit.'

  `Perhaps it hasn't one,' Alice ventured to remark.

  `Tut, tut, child!' said the Duchess.  `Everything's got a
moral, if only you can find it.'  And she squeezed herself up
closer to Alice's side as she spoke.

  Alice did not much like keeping so close to her:  first,
because the Duchess was VERY ugly; and secondly, because she was
exactly the right height to rest her chin upon Alice's shoulder,
and it was an uncomfortably sharp chin.  However, she did not
like to be rude, so she bore it as well as she could.

  `The game's going on rather better now,' she said, by way of
keeping up the conversation a little.

  `'Tis so,' said the Duchess:  `and the moral of that is--"Oh,
'tis love, 'tis love, that makes the world go round!"'

  `Somebody said,' Alice whispered, `that it's done by everybody
minding their own business!'

  `Ah, well!  It means much the same thing,' said the Duchess,
digging her sharp little chin into Alice's shoulder as she added,
`and the moral of THAT is--"Take care of the sense, and the
sounds will take care of themselves."'

  `How fond she is of finding morals in things!' Alice thought to
herself.

  `I dare say you're wondering why I don't put my arm round your
waist,' the Duchess said after a pause:  `the reason is, that I'm
doubtful about the temper of your flamingo.  Shall I try the
experiment?'

  `HE might bite,' Alice cautiously replied, not feeling at all
anxious to have the experiment tried.

  `Very true,' said the Duchess:  `flamingoes and mustard both
bite.  And the moral of that is--"Birds of a feather flock
together."'

  `Only mustard isn't a bird,' Alice remarked.

  `Right, as usual,' said the Duchess:  `what a clear way you
have of putting things!'

  `It's a mineral, I THINK,' said Alice.

  `Of course it is,' said the Duchess, who seemed ready to agree
to everything that Alice said; `there's a large mustard-mine near
here.  And the moral of that is--"The more there is of mine, the
less there is of yours."'

  `Oh, I know!' exclaimed Alice, who had not attended to this
last remark, `it's a vegetable.  It doesn't look like one, but it
is.'

  `I quite agree with you,' said the Duchess; `and the moral of
that is--"Be what you would seem to be"--or if you'd like it put
more simply--"Never imagine yourself not to be otherwise than
what it might appear to others that what you were or might have
been was not otherwise than what you had been would have appeared
to them to be otherwise."'

  `I think I should understand that better,' Alice said very
politely, `if I had it written down:  but I can't quite follow it
as you say it.'

  `That's nothing to what I could say if I chose,' the Duchess
replied, in a pleased tone.

  `Pray don't trouble yourself to say it any longer than that,'
said Alice.

  `Oh, don't talk about trouble!' said the Duchess.  `I make you
a present of everything I've said as yet.'

  `A cheap sort of present!' thought Alice.  `I'm glad they don't
give birthday presents like that!'  But she did not venture to
say it out loud.

  `Thinking again?' the Duchess asked, with another dig of her
sharp little chin.

  `I've a right to think,' said Alice sharply, for she was
beginning to feel a little worried.

  `Just about as much right,' said the Duchess, `as pigs have to
fly; and the m--'

  But here, to Alice's great surprise, the Duchess's voice died
away, even in the middle of her favourite word `moral,' and the
arm that was linked into hers began to tremble.  Alice looked up,
and there stood the Queen in front of them, with her arms folded,
frowning like a thunderstorm.

  `A fine day, your Majesty!' the Duchess began in a low, weak
voice.

  `Now, I give you fair warning,' shouted the Queen, stamping on
the ground as she spoke; `either you or your head must be off,
and that in about half no time!  Take your choice!'

  The Duchess took her choice, and was gone in a moment.

  `Let's go on with the game,' the Queen said to Alice; and Alice
was too much frightened to say a word, but slowly followed her
back to the croquet-ground.

  The other guests had taken advantage of the Queen's absence,
and were resting in the shade:  however, the moment they saw her,
they hurried back to the game, the Queen merely remarking that a
moment's delay would cost them their lives.

  All the time they were playing the Queen never left off
quarrelling with the other players, and shouting `Off with his
head!' or `Off with her head!'  Those whom she sentenced were
taken into custody by the soldiers, who of course had to leave
off being arches to do this, so that by the end of half an hour
or so there were no arches left, and all the players, except the
King, the Queen, and Alice, were in custody and under sentence of
execution.

  Then the Queen left off, quite out of breath, and said to
Alice, `Have you seen the Mock Turtle yet?'

  `No,' said Alice.  `I don't even know what a Mock Turtle is.'

  `It's the thing Mock Turtle Soup is made from,' said the Queen.

  `I never saw one, or heard of one,' said Alice.

  `Come on, then,' said the Queen, `and he shall tell you his
history,'

  As they walked off together, Alice heard the King say in a low
voice, to the company generally, `You are all pardoned.'  `Come,
THAT'S a good thing!' she said to herself, for she had felt quite
unhappy at the number of executions the Queen had ordered.

  They very soon came upon a Gryphon, lying fast asleep in the
sun.  (IF you don't know what a Gryphon is, look at the picture.)
`Up, lazy thing!' said the Queen, `and take this young lady to
see the Mock Turtle, and to hear his history.  I must go back and
see after some executions I have ordered'; and she walked off,
leaving Alice alone with the Gryphon.  Alice did not quite like
the look of the creature, but on the whole she thought it would
be quite as safe to stay with it as to go after that savage
Queen:  so she waited.

  The Gryphon sat up and rubbed its eyes:  then it watched the
Queen till she was out of sight:  then it chuckled.  `What fun!'
said the Gryphon, half to itself, half to Alice.

  `What IS the fun?' said Alice.

  `Why, SHE,' said the Gryphon.  `It's all her fancy, that:  they
never executes nobody, you know.  Come on!'

  `Everybody says "come on!" here,' thought Alice, as she went
slowly after it:  `I never was so ordered about in all my life,
never!'

  They had not gone far before they saw the Mock Turtle in the
distance, sitting sad and lonely on a little ledge of rock, and,
as they came nearer, Alice could hear him sighing as if his heart
would break.  She pitied him deeply.  `What is his sorrow?' she
asked the Gryphon, and the Gryphon answered, very nearly in the
same words as before, `It's all his fancy, that:  he hasn't got
no sorrow, you know.  Come on!'

  So they went up to the Mock Turtle, who looked at them with
large eyes full of tears, but said nothing.

  `This here young lady,' said the Gryphon, `she wants for to
know your history, she do.'

  `I'll tell it her,' said the Mock Turtle in a deep, hollow
tone:  `sit down, both of you, and don't speak a word till I've
finished.'

  So they sat down, and nobody spoke for some minutes.  Alice
thought to herself, `I don't see how he cZM VEVM URMRHS, RU SV
WLVHM'G YVTRM.'  YFG HSV DZRGVW KZGRVMGOB.

  `LMXV,' HZRW GSV NLXP GFIGOV ZG OZHG, DRGS Z WVVK HRTS, `R DZH
Z IVZO GFIGOV.'

  GSVHV DLIWH DVIV ULOOLDVW YB Z EVIB OLMT HROVMXV, YILPVM LMOB
YB ZM LXXZHRLMZO VCXOZNZGRLM LU `SQXPIIS!' UILN GSV TIBKSLM, ZMW
GSV XLMHGZMG SVZEB HLYYRMT LU GSV NLXP GFIGOV.  ZORXV DZH EVIB
MVZIOB TVGGRMT FK ZMW HZBRMT, `GSZMP BLF, HRI, ULI BLFI
RMGVIVHGRMT HGLIB,' YFG HSV XLFOW MLG SVOK GSRMPRMT GSVIV NFHG YV
NLIV GL XLNV, HL HSV HZG HGROO ZMW HZRW MLGSRMT.

  `DSVM DV DVIV ORGGOV,' GSV NLXP GFIGOV DVMG LM ZG OZHG, NLIV
XZONOB, GSLFTS HGROO HLYYRMT Z ORGGOV MLD ZMW GSVM, `DV DVMG GL
HXSLLO RM GSV HVZ.  GSV NZHGVI DZH ZM LOW GFIGOV--DV FHVW GL XZOO
SRN GLIGLRHV--'

  `DSB WRW BLF XZOO SRN GLIGLRHV, RU SV DZHM'G LMV?' ZORXV ZHPVW.

  `DV XZOOVW SRN GLIGLRHV YVXZFHV SV GZFTSG FH,' HZRW GSV NLXP
GFIGOV ZMTIROB:  `IVZOOB BLF ZIV EVIB WFOO!'

  `BLF LFTSG GL YV ZHSZNVW LU BLFIHVOU ULI ZHPRMT HFXS Z HRNKOV
JFVHGRLM,' ZWWVW GSV TIBKSLM; ZMW GSVM GSVB YLGS HZG HROVMG ZMW
OLLPVW ZG KLLI ZORXV, DSL UVOG IVZWB GL HRMP RMGL GSV VZIGS.  ZG
OZHG GSV TIBKSLM HZRW GL GSV NLXP GFIGOV, `WIREV LM, LOW UVOOLD!
WLM'G YV ZOO WZB ZYLFG RG!' ZMW SV DVMG LM RM GSVHV DLIWH:

  `BVH, DV DVMG GL HXSLLO RM GSV HVZ, GSLFTS BLF NZBM'G YVORVEV
RG--'

  `R MVEVI HZRW R WRWM'G!' RMGVIIFKGVW ZORXV.

  `BLF WRW,' HZRW GSV NLXP GFIGOV.

  `SLOW BLFI GLMTFV!' ZWWVW GSV TIBKSLM, YVULIV ZORXV XLFOW HKVZP
ZTZRM.  GSV NLXP GFIGOV DVMG LM.

  `DV SZW GSV YVHG LU VWFXZGRLMH--RM UZXG, DV DVMG GL HXSLLO
VEVIB WZB--'

  `R'EV YVVM GL Z WZB-HXSLLO, GLL,' HZRW ZORXV; `BLF MVVWM'G YV
HL KILFW ZH ZOO GSZG.'

  `DRGS VCGIZH?' ZHPVW GSV NLXP GFIGOV Z ORGGOV ZMCRLFHOB.

  `BVH,' HZRW ZORXV, `DV OVZIMVW UIVMXS ZMW NFHRX.'

  `ZMW DZHSRMT?' HZRW GSV NLXP GFIGOV.

  `XVIGZRMOB MLG!' HZRW ZORXV RMWRTMZMGOB.

  `ZS! GSVM BLFIH DZHM'G Z IVZOOB TLLW HXSLLO,' HZRW GSV NLXP
GFIGOV RM Z GLMV LU TIVZG IVORVU.  `MLD ZG LFIH GSVB SZW ZG GSV
VMW LU GSV YROO, "UIVMXS, NFHRX, ZMW DZHSRMT--VCGIZ."'

  `BLF XLFOWM'G SZEV DZMGVW RG NFXS,' HZRW ZORXV; `ORERMT ZG GSV
YLGGLN LU GSV HVZ.'

  `R XLFOWM'G ZUULIW GL OVZIM RG.' HZRW GSV NLXP GFIGOV DRGS Z
HRTS.  `R LMOB GLLP GSV IVTFOZI XLFIHV.'

  `DSZG DZH GSZG?' RMJFRIVW ZORXV.

  `IVVORMT ZMW DIRGSRMT, LU XLFIHV, GL YVTRM DRGS,' GSV NLXP
GFIGOV IVKORVW; `ZMW GSVM GSV WRUUVIVMG YIZMXSVH LU ZIRGSNVGRX--
ZNYRGRLM, WRHGIZXGRLM, FTORURXZGRLM, ZMW WVIRHRLM.'

  `R MVEVI SVZIW LU "FTORURXZGRLM,"' ZORXV EVMGFIVW GL HZB.  `DSZG
RH RG?'

  GSV TIBKSLM ORUGVW FK YLGS RGH KZDH RM HFIKIRHV.  `DSZG!  MVEVI
SVZIW LU FTORUBRMT!' RG VCXOZRNVW.  `BLF PMLD DSZG GL YVZFGRUB
RH, R HFKKLHV?'

  `BVH,' HZRW ZORXV WLFYGUFOOB:  `RG NVZMH--GL--NZPV--ZMBGSRMT--
KIVGGRVI.'

  `DVOO, GSVM,' GSV TIBKSLM DVMG LM, `RU BLF WLM'G PMLD DSZG GL
FTORUB RH, BLF ZIV Z HRNKOVGLM.'

  ZORXV WRW MLG UVVO VMXLFIZTVW GL ZHP ZMB NLIV JFVHGRLMH ZYLFG
RG, HL HSV GFIMVW GL GSV NLXP GFIGOV, ZMW HZRW `DSZG VOHV SZW BLF
GL OVZIM?'

  `DVOO, GSVIV DZH NBHGVIB,' GSV NLXP GFIGOV IVKORVW, XLFMGRMT
LUU GSV HFYQVXGH LM SRH UOZKKVIH, `--NBHGVIB, ZMXRVMG ZMW NLWVIM,
DRGS HVZLTIZKSB:  GSVM WIZDORMT--GSV WIZDORMT-NZHGVI DZH ZM LOW
XLMTVI-VVO, GSZG FHVW GL XLNV LMXV Z DVVP:  SV GZFTSG FH
WIZDORMT, HGIVGXSRMT, ZMW UZRMGRMT RM XLROH.'

  `DSZG DZH GSZG ORPV?' HZRW ZORXV.

  `DVOO, R XZM'G HSLD RG BLF NBHVOU,' GSV NLXP GFIGOV HZRW:  `R'N
GLL HGRUU.  ZMW GSV TIBKSLM MVEVI OVZIMG RG.'

  `SZWM'G GRNV,' HZRW GSV TIBKSLM:  `R DVMG GL GSV XOZHHRXH
NZHGVI, GSLFTS.  SV DZH ZM LOW XIZY, SV DZH.'

  `R MVEVI DVMG GL SRN,' GSV NLXP GFIGOV HZRW DRGS Z HRTS:  `SV
GZFTSG OZFTSRMT ZMW TIRVU, GSVB FHVW GL HZB.'

  `HL SV WRW, HL SV WRW,' HZRW GSV TIBKSLM, HRTSRMT RM SRH GFIM;
ZMW YLGS XIVZGFIVH SRW GSVRI UZXVH RM GSVRI KZDH.

  `ZMW SLD NZMB SLFIH Z WZB WRW BLF WL OVHHLMH?' HZRW ZORXV, RM Z
SFIIB GL XSZMTV GSV HFYQVXG.

  `GVM SLFIH GSV URIHG WZB,' HZRW GSV NLXP GFIGOV: `MRMV GSV
MVCG, ZMW HL LM.'

  `DSZG Z XFIRLFH KOZM!' VCXOZRNVW ZORXV.

  `GSZG'H GSV IVZHLM GSVB'IV XZOOVW OVHHLMH,' GSV TIBKSLM
IVNZIPVW:  `YVXZFHV GSVB OVHHVM UILN WZB GL WZB.'

  GSRH DZH JFRGV Z MVD RWVZ GL ZORXV, ZMW HSV GSLFTSG RG LEVI Z
ORGGOV YVULIV HSV NZWV SVI MVCG IVNZIP.  `GSVM GSV VOVEVMGS WZB
NFHG SZEV YVVM Z SLORWZB?'

  `LU XLFIHV RG DZH,' HZRW GSV NLXP GFIGOV.

  `ZMW SLD WRW BLF NZMZTV LM GSV GDVOUGS?' ZORXV DVMG LM VZTVIOB.

  `GSZG'H VMLFTS ZYLFG OVHHLMH,' GSV TIBKSLM RMGVIIFKGVW RM Z
EVIB WVXRWVW GLMV:  `GVOO SVI HLNVGSRMT ZYLFG GSV TZNVH MLD.'



                            XSZKGVI C

                      GSV OLYHGVI JFZWIROOV


  GSV NLXP GFIGOV HRTSVW WVVKOB, ZMW WIVD GSV YZXP LU LMV UOZKKVI
ZXILHH SRH VBVH.  SV OLLPVW ZG ZORXV, ZMW GIRVW GL HKVZP, YFG ULI
Z NRMFGV LI GDL HLYH XSLPVW SRH ELRXV.  `HZNV ZH RU SV SZW Z YLMV
RM SRH GSILZG,' HZRW GSV TIBKSLM:  ZMW RG HVG GL DLIP HSZPRMT SRN
ZMW KFMXSRMT SRN RM GSV YZXP.  ZG OZHG GSV NLXP GFIGOV IVXLEVIVW
SRH ELRXV, ZMW, DRGS GVZIH IFMMRMT WLDM SRH XSVVPH, SV DVMG LM
ZTZRM:--

  `BLF NZB MLG SZEV OREVW NFXS FMWVI GSV HVZ--' (`R SZEVM'G,'
HZRW ZORXV)--`ZMW KVISZKH BLF DVIV MVEVI VEVM RMGILWFXVW GL Z OLYHGVI--'
(ZORXV YVTZM GL HZB `R LMXV GZHGVW--' YFG XSVXPVW SVIHVOU SZHGROB,
ZMW HZRW `ML, MVEVI') `--HL BLF XZM SZEV ML RWVZ DSZG Z WVORTSGUFO
GSRMT Z OLYHGVI JFZWIROOV RH!'

  `ML, RMWVVW,' HZRW ZORXV.  `DSZG HLIG LU Z WZMXV RH RG?'

  `DSB,' HZRW GSV TIBKSLM, `BLF URIHG ULIN RMGL Z ORMV ZOLMT GSV
HVZ-HSLIV--'

  `GDL ORMVH!' XIRVW GSV NLXP GFIGOV.  `HVZOH, GFIGOVH, HZONLM,
ZMW HL LM; GSVM, DSVM BLF'EV XOVZIVW ZOO GSV QVOOB-URHS LFG LU
GSV DZB--'

  `GSZG TVMVIZOOB GZPVH HLNV GRNV,' RMGVIIFKGVW GSV TIBKSLM.

  `--BLF ZWEZMXV GDRXV--'

  `VZXS DRGS Z OLYHGVI ZH Z KZIGMVI!' XIRVW GSV TIBKSLM.

  `LU XLFIHV,' GSV NLXP GFIGOV HZRW:  `ZWEZMXV GDRXV, HVG GL
KZIGMVIH--'

  `--XSZMTV OLYHGVIH, ZMW IVGRIV RM HZNV LIWVI,' XLMGRMFVW GSV
TIBKSLM.

  `GSVM, BLF PMLD,' GSV NLXP GFIGOV DVMG LM, `BLF GSILD GSV--'

  `GSV OLYHGVIH!' HSLFGVW GSV TIBKSLM, DRGS Z YLFMW RMGL GSV ZRI.

  `--ZH UZI LFG GL HVZ ZH BLF XZM--'

  `HDRN ZUGVI GSVN!' HXIVZNVW GSV TIBKSLM.

  `GFIM Z HLNVIHZFOG RM GSV HVZ!' XIRVW GSV NLXP GFIGOV,
XZKVIRMT DROWOB ZYLFG.

  `YZXP GL OZMW ZTZRM, ZMW GSZG'H ZOO GSV URIHG URTFIV,' HZRW GSV
NLXP GFIGOV, HFWWVMOB WILKKRMT SRH ELRXV; ZMW GSV GDL XIVZGFIVH,
DSL SZW YVVM QFNKRMT ZYLFG ORPV NZW GSRMTH ZOO GSRH GRNV, HZG
WLDM ZTZRM EVIB HZWOB ZMW JFRVGOB, ZMW OLLPVW ZG ZORXV.

  `RG NFHG YV Z EVIB KIVGGB WZMXV,' HZRW ZORXV GRNRWOB.

  `DLFOW BLF ORPV GL HVV Z ORGGOV LU RG?' HZRW GSV NLXP GFIGOV.

  `EVIB NFXS RMWVVW,' HZRW ZORXV.

  `XLNV, OVG'H GIB GSV URIHG URTFIV!' HZRW GSV NLXP GFIGOV GL GSV
TIBKSLM.  `DV XZM WL DRGSLFG OLYHGVIH, BLF PMLD.  DSRXS HSZOO
HRMT?'

  `LS, BLF HRMT,' HZRW GSV TIBKSLM.  `R'EV ULITLGGVM GSV DLIWH.'

  HL GSVB YVTZM HLOVNMOB WZMXRMT ILFMW ZMW ILFMW ZORXV, VEVIB MLD
ZMW GSVM GIVZWRMT LM SVI GLVH DSVM GSVB KZHHVW GLL XOLHV, ZMW
DZERMT GSVRI ULIVKZDH GL NZIP GSV GRNV, DSROV GSV NLXP GFIGOV
HZMT GSRH, EVIB HOLDOB ZMW HZWOB:--


`"DROO BLF DZOP Z ORGGOV UZHGVI?" HZRW Z DSRGRMT GL Z HMZRO.
"GSVIV'H Z KLIKLRHV XOLHV YVSRMW FH, ZMW SV'H GIVZWRMT LM NB
 GZRO.
HVV SLD VZTVIOB GSV OLYHGVIH ZMW GSV GFIGOVH ZOO ZWEZMXV!
GSVB ZIV DZRGRMT LM GSV HSRMTOV--DROO BLF XLNV ZMW QLRM GSV
WZMXV?

DROO BLF, DLM'G BLF, DROO BLF, DLM'G BLF, DROO BLF QLRM GSV
WZMXV?
DROO BLF, DLM'G BLF, DROO BLF, DLM'G BLF, DLM'G BLF QLRM GSV
WZMXV?


"BLF XZM IVZOOB SZEV ML MLGRLM SLD WVORTSGUFO RG DROO YV
DSVM GSVB GZPV FH FK ZMW GSILD FH, DRGS GSV OLYHGVIH, LFG GL
                                                      HVZ!"
YFG GSV HMZRO IVKORVW "GLL UZI, GLL UZI!" ZMW TZEV Z OLLP
                                                       ZHPZMXV--
HZRW SV GSZMPVW GSV DSRGRMT PRMWOB, YFG SV DLFOW MLG QLRM GSV
   WZMXV.
    DLFOW MLG, XLFOW MLG, DLFOW MLG, XLFOW MLG, DLFOW MLG QLRM
        GSV WZMXV.
    DLFOW MLG, XLFOW MLG, DLFOW MLG, XLFOW MLG, XLFOW MLG QLRM
        GSV WZMXV.

`"DSZG NZGGVIH RG SLD UZI DV TL?" SRH HXZOB UIRVMW IVKORVW.
"GSVIV RH ZMLGSVI HSLIV, BLF PMLD, FKLM GSV LGSVI HRWV.
GSV UFIGSVI LUU UILN VMTOZMW GSV MVZIVI RH GL UIZMXV--
GSVM GFIM MLG KZOV, YVOLEVW HMZRO, YFG XLNV ZMW QLRM GSV WZMXV.

    DROO BLF, DLM'G BLF, DROO BLF, DLM'G BLF, DROO BLF QLRM GSV
         WZMXV?
    DROO BLF, DLM'G BLF, DROO BLF, DLM'G BLF, DLM'G BLF QLRM GSV
         WZMXV?"'



  `GSZMP BLF, RG'H Z EVIB RMGVIVHGRMT WZMXV GL DZGXS,' HZRW
ZORXV, UVVORMT EVIB TOZW GSZG RG DZH LEVI ZG OZHG:  `ZMW R WL HL
ORPV GSZG XFIRLFH HLMT ZYLFG GSV DSRGRMT!'

  `LS, ZH GL GSV DSRGRMT,' HZRW GSV NLXP GFIGOV, `GSVB--BLF'EV
HVVM GSVN, LU XLFIHV?'

  `BVH,' HZRW ZORXV, `R'EV LUGVM HVVM GSVN ZG WRMM--' HSV
XSVXPVW SVIHVOU SZHGROB.

  `R WLM'G PMLD DSVIV WRMM NZB YV,' HZRW GSV NLXP GFIGOV, `YFG
RU BLF'EV HVVM GSVN HL LUGVM, LU XLFIHV BLF PMLD DSZG GSVB'IV
ORPV.'

  `R YVORVEV HL,' ZORXV IVKORVW GSLFTSGUFOOB.  `GSVB SZEV GSVRI
GZROH RM GSVRI NLFGSH--ZMW GSVB'IV ZOO LEVI XIFNYH.'

  `BLF'IV DILMT ZYLFG GSV XIFNYH,' HZRW GSV NLXP GFIGOV:
`XIFNYH DLFOW ZOO DZHS LUU RM GSV HVZ.  YFG GSVB SZEV GSVRI GZROH
RM GSVRI NLFGSH; ZMW GSV IVZHLM RH--' SVIV GSV NLXP GFIGOV
BZDMVW ZMW HSFG SRH VBVH.--`GVOO SVI ZYLFG GSV IVZHLM ZMW ZOO
GSZG,' SV HZRW GL GSV TIBKSLM.

  `GSV IVZHLM RH,' HZRW GSV TIBKSLM, `GSZG GSVB DLFOW TL DRGS
GSV OLYHGVIH GL GSV WZMXV.  HL GSVB TLG GSILDM LFG GL HVZ.  HL
GSVB SZW GL UZOO Z OLMT DZB.  HL GSVB TLG GSVRI GZROH UZHG RM
GSVRI NLFGSH.  HL GSVB XLFOWM'G TVG GSVN LFG ZTZRM.  GSZG'H ZOO.'

  `GSZMP BLF,' HZRW ZORXV, `RG'H EVIB RMGVIVHGRMT.  R MVEVI PMVD
HL NFXS ZYLFG Z DSRGRMT YVULIV.'

  `R XZM GVOO BLF NLIV GSZM GSZG, RU BLF ORPV,' HZRW GSV
TIBKSLM.  `WL BLF PMLD DSB RG'H XZOOVW Z DSRGRMT?'

  `R MVEVI GSLFTSG ZYLFG RG,' HZRW ZORXV.  `DSB?'

  `RG WLVH GSV YLLGH ZMW HSLVH.' GSV TIBKSLM IVKORVW EVIB
HLOVNMOB.

  ZORXV DZH GSLILFTSOB KFAAOVW.  `WLVH GSV YLLGH ZMW HSLVH!' HSV
IVKVZGVW RM Z DLMWVIRMT GLMV.

