          What would become of you?

        I gave her one, they gave him two,
          You gave us three or more;
        They all returned from him to you,
          Though they were mine before.

        If I or she should chance to be
          Involved in this affair,
        He trusts to you to set them free,
          Exactly as we were.

        My notion was that you had been
          (Before she had this fit)
        An obstacle that came between
          Him, and ourselves, and it.

        Don't let him know she liked them best,
          For this must ever be
        A secret, kept from all the rest,
          Between yourself and me.'

  `That's the most important piece of evidence we've heard yet,'
said the King, rubbing his hands; `so now let the jury--'

  `If any one of them can explain it,' said Alice, (she had
grown so large in the last few minutes that she wasn't a bit
afraid of interrupting him,) `I'll give him sixpence.  _I_ don't
believe there's an atom of meaning in it.'

  The jury all wrote down on their slates, `SHE doesn't believe
there's an atom of meaning in it,' but none of them attempted to
explain the paper.

  `If there's no meaning in it,' said the King, `that saves a
world of trouble, you know, as we needn't try to find any.  And
yet I don't know,' he went on, spreading out the verses on his
knee, and looking at them with one eye; `I seem to see some
meaning in them, after all.  "--SAID I COULD NOT SWIM--" you
can't swim, can you?' he added, turning to the Knave.

  The Knave shook his head sadly.  `Do I look like it?' he said.
(Which he certainly did NOT, being made entirely of cardboard.)

  `All right, so far,' said the King, and he went on muttering
over the verses to himself:  `"WE KNOW IT TO BE TRUE--" that's
the jury, of course-- "I GAVE HER ONE, THEY GAVE HIM TWO--" why,
that must be what he did with the tarts, you know--'

  `But, it goes on "THEY ALL RETURNED FROM HIM TO YOU,"' said
Alice.

  `Why, there they are!' said the King triumphantly, pointing to
the tarts on the table.  `Nothing can be clearer than THAT.
Then again--"BEFORE SHE HAD THIS FIT--"  you never had fits, my
dear, I think?' he said to the Queen.

  `Never!' said the Queen furiously, throwing an inkstand at the
Lizard as she spoke.  (The unfortunate little Bill had left off
writing on his slate with one finger, as he found it made no
mark; but he now hastily began again, using the ink, that was
trickling down his face, as long as it lasted.)

  `Then the words don't FIT you,' said the King, looking round
the court with a smile.  There was a dead silence.

  `It's a pun!' the King added in an offended tone, and
everybody laughed, `Let the jury consider their verdict,' the
King said, for about the twentieth time that day.

  `No, no!' said the Queen.  `Sentence first--verdict afterwards.'

  `Stuff and nonsense!' said Alice loudly.  `The idea of having
the sentence first!'

  `Hold your tongue!' said the Queen, turning purple.

  `I won't!' said Alice.

  `Off with her head!' the Queen shouted at the top of her voice.
Nobody moved.

  `Who cares for you?' said Alice, (she had grown to her full
size by this time.)  `You're nothing but a pack of cards!'

  At this the whole pack rose up into the air, and came flying
down upon her:  she gave a little scream, half of fright and half
of anger, and tried to beat them off, and found herself lying on
the bank, with her head in the lap of her sister, who was gently
brushing away some dead leaves that had fluttered down from the
trees upon her face.

  `Wake up, Alice dear!' said her sister; `Why, what a long
sleep you've had!'

  `Oh, I've had such a curious dream!' said Alice, and she told
her sister, as well as she could remember them, all these strange
Adventures of hers that you have just been reading about; and
when she had finished, her sister kissed her, and said, `It WAS a
curious dream, dear, certainly:  but now run in to your tea; it's
getting late.'  So Alice got up and ran off, thinking while she
ran, as well she might, what a wonderful dream it had been.

  But her sister sat still just as she left her, leaning her
head on her hand, watching the setting sun, and thinking of
little Alice and all her wonderful Adventures, till she too began
dreaming after a fashion, and this was her dream:--

  First, she dreamed of little Alice herself, and once again the
tiny hands were clasped upon her knee, and the bright eager eyes
were looking up into hers--she could hear the very tones of her
voice, and see that queer little toss of her head to keep back
the wandering hair that WOULD always get into her eyes--and
still as she listened, or seemed to listen, the whole place
around her became alive the strange creatures of her little
sister's dream.

  The long grass rustled at her feet as the White Rabbit hurried
by--the frightened Mouse splashed his way through the
neighbouring pool--she could hear the rattle of the teacups as
the March Hare and his friends shared their never-ending meal,
and the shrill voice of the Queen ordering off her unfortunate
guests to execution--once more the pig-baby was sneezing on the
Duchess's knee, while plates and dishes crashed around it--once
more the shriek of the Gryphon, the squeaking of the Lizard's
slate-pencil, and the choking of the suppressed guinea-pigs,
filled the air, mixed up with the distant sobs of the miserable
Mock Turtle.

  So she sat on, with closed eyes, and half believed herself in
Wonderland, though she knew she had but to open them again, and
all would change to dull reality--the grass would be only
rustling in the wind, and the pool rippling to the waving of the
reeds--the rattling teacups would change to tinkling sheep-
bells, and the Queen's shrill cries to the voice of the shepherd
boy--and the sneeze of the baby, the shriek of the Gryphon, and
all thy other queer noises, would change (she knew) to the
confused clamour of the busy farm-yard--while the lowing of the
cattle in the distance would take the place of the Mock Turtle's
heavy sobs.

  Lastly, she pictured to herself how this same little sister of
hers would, in the after-time, be herself a grown woman; and how
she would keep, through all her riper years, the simple and
loving heart of her childhood:  and how she would gather about
her other little children, and make THEIR eyes bright and eager
with many a strange tale, perhaps even with the dream of
Wonderland of long ago:  and how she would feel with all their
simple sorrows, and find a pleasure in all their simple joys,
remembering her own child-life, and the happy summer days.

                             THE END
	AS YOU LIKE IT


	DRAMATIS PERSONAE


DUKE SENIOR	living in banishment.

DUKE FREDERICK	his brother, an usurper of his dominions.


AMIENS	|
	|  lords attending on the banished duke.
JAQUES	|


LE BEAU	a courtier attending upon Frederick.

CHARLES	wrestler GL UIVWVIRXP.


LOREVI		|
		|
QZJFVH (QZJFVH WV YLBH:)  	|  HLMH LU HRI ILDOZMW WV YLBH.
		|
LIOZMWL		|


ZWZN	|
	|  HVIEZMGH GL LOREVI.
WVMMRH	|


GLFXSHGLMV	Z XOLDM.

HRI LOREVI NZIGVCG	Z ERXZI.


XLIRM	|
	|  HSVKSVIWH.
HROERFH	|


DROORZN	Z XLFMGIB UVOOLD RM OLEV DRGS ZFWIVB.

	Z KVIHLM IVKIVHVMGRMT SBNVM. (SBNVM:)

ILHZORMW	WZFTSGVI GL GSV YZMRHSVW WFPV.

XVORZ	WZFTSGVI GL UIVWVIRXP.

KSVYV	Z HSVKSVIWVHH.

ZFWIVB	Z XLFMGIB DVMXS.

	OLIWH, KZTVH, ZMW ZGGVMWZMGH, &X.
	(ULIVHGVI:)
	(Z OLIW:)
	(URIHG OLIW:)
	(HVXLMW OLIW:)
	(URIHG KZTV:)
	(HVXLMW KZTV:)


HXVMV	LOREVI'H SLFHV; WFPV UIVWVIRXP'H XLFIG; ZMW GSV
	ULIVHG LU ZIWVM.




	ZH BLF ORPV RG


ZXG R



HXVMV R	LIXSZIW LU LOREVI'H SLFHV.


	[VMGVI LIOZMWL ZMW ZWZN]

LIOZMWL	ZH R IVNVNYVI, ZWZN, RG DZH FKLM GSRH UZHSRLM
	YVJFVZGSVW NV YB DROO YFG KLLI Z GSLFHZMW XILDMH,
	ZMW, ZH GSLF HZBVHG, XSZITVW NB YILGSVI, LM SRH
	YOVHHRMT, GL YIVVW NV DVOO: ZMW GSVIV YVTRMH NB
	HZWMVHH. NB YILGSVI QZJFVH SV PVVKH ZG HXSLLO, ZMW
	IVKLIG HKVZPH TLOWVMOB LU SRH KILURG: ULI NB KZIG,
	SV PVVKH NV IFHGRXZOOB ZG SLNV, LI, GL HKVZP NLIV
	KILKVIOB, HGZBH NV SVIV ZG SLNV FMPVKG; ULI XZOO BLF
	GSZG PVVKRMT ULI Z TVMGOVNZM LU NB YRIGS, GSZG
	WRUUVIH MLG UILN GSV HGZOORMT LU ZM LC? SRH SLIHVH
	ZIV YIVW YVGGVI; ULI, YVHRWVH GSZG GSVB ZIV UZRI
	DRGS GSVRI UVVWRMT, GSVB ZIV GZFTSG GSVRI NZMZTV,
	ZMW GL GSZG VMW IRWVIH WVZIOB SRIVW: YFG R, SRH
	YILGSVI, TZRM MLGSRMT FMWVI SRN YFG TILDGS; ULI GSV
	DSRXS SRH ZMRNZOH LM SRH WFMTSROOH ZIV ZH NFXS
	YLFMW GL SRN ZH R. YVHRWVH GSRH MLGSRMT GSZG SV HL
	KOVMGRUFOOB TREVH NV, GSV HLNVGSRMT GSZG MZGFIV TZEV
	NV SRH XLFMGVMZMXV HVVNH GL GZPV UILN NV: SV OVGH
	NV UVVW DRGS SRH SRMWH, YZIH NV GSV KOZXV LU Z
	YILGSVI, ZMW, ZH NFXS ZH RM SRN ORVH, NRMVH NB
	TVMGRORGB DRGS NB VWFXZGRLM. GSRH RH RG, ZWZN, GSZG
	TIRVEVH NV; ZMW GSV HKRIRG LU NB UZGSVI, DSRXS R
	GSRMP RH DRGSRM NV, YVTRMH GL NFGRMB ZTZRMHG GSRH
	HVIERGFWV: R DROO ML OLMTVI VMWFIV RG, GSLFTS BVG R
	PMLD ML DRHV IVNVWB SLD GL ZELRW RG.

ZWZN	BLMWVI XLNVH NB NZHGVI, BLFI YILGSVI.

LIOZMWL	TL ZKZIG, ZWZN, ZMW GSLF HSZOG SVZI SLD SV DROO
	HSZPV NV FK.

	[VMGVI LOREVI]

LOREVI	MLD, HRI! DSZG NZPV BLF SVIV?

LIOZMWL	MLGSRMT: R ZN MLG GZFTSG GL NZPV ZMB GSRMT.

LOREVI	DSZG NZI BLF GSVM, HRI?

LIOZMWL	NZIIB, HRI, R ZN SVOKRMT BLF GL NZI GSZG DSRXS TLW
	NZWV, Z KLLI FMDLIGSB YILGSVI LU BLFIH, DRGS RWOVMVHH.

LOREVI	NZIIB, HRI, YV YVGGVI VNKOLBVW, ZMW YV MZFTSG ZDSROV.

LIOZMWL	HSZOO R PVVK BLFI SLTH ZMW VZG SFHPH DRGS GSVN?
	DSZG KILWRTZO KLIGRLM SZEV R HKVMG, GSZG R HSLFOW
	XLNV GL HFXS KVMFIB?

LOREVI	PMLD BLF DSVIV BLFI ZIV, HRI?

LIOZMWL	L, HRI, EVIB DVOO; SVIV RM BLFI LIXSZIW.

LOREVI	PMLD BLF YVULIV DSLN, HRI?

LIOZMWL	ZB, YVGGVI GSZM SRN R ZN YVULIV PMLDH NV. R PMLD
	BLF ZIV NB VOWVHG YILGSVI; ZMW, RM GSV TVMGOV
	XLMWRGRLM LU YOLLW, BLF HSLFOW HL PMLD NV. GSV
	XLFIGVHB LU MZGRLMH ZOOLDH BLF NB YVGGVI, RM GSZG
	BLF ZIV GSV URIHG-YLIM; YFG GSV HZNV GIZWRGRLM
	GZPVH MLG ZDZB NB YOLLW, DVIV GSVIV GDVMGB YILGSVIH
	YVGDRCG FH: R SZEV ZH NFXS LU NB UZGSVI RM NV ZH
	BLF; ZOYVRG, R XLMUVHH, BLFI XLNRMT YVULIV NV RH
	MVZIVI GL SRH IVEVIVMXV.

LOREVI	DSZG, YLB!

LIOZMWL	XLNV, XLNV, VOWVI YILGSVI, BLF ZIV GLL BLFMT RM GSRH.

LOREVI	DROG GSLF OZB SZMWH LM NV, EROOZRM?

LIOZMWL	R ZN ML EROOZRM; R ZN GSV BLFMTVHG HLM LU HRI
	ILDOZMW WV YLBH; SV DZH NB UZGSVI, ZMW SV RH GSIRXV
	Z EROOZRM GSZG HZBH HFXS Z UZGSVI YVTLG EROOZRMH.
	DVIG GSLF MLG NB YILGSVI, R DLFOW MLG GZPV GSRH SZMW
	UILN GSB GSILZG GROO GSRH LGSVI SZW KFOOVW LFG GSB
	GLMTFV ULI HZBRMT HL: GSLF SZHG IZROVW LM GSBHVOU.

ZWZN	HDVVG NZHGVIH, YV KZGRVMG: ULI BLFI UZGSVI'H
	IVNVNYIZMXV, YV ZG ZXXLIW.

LOREVI	OVG NV TL, R HZB.

LIOZMWL	R DROO MLG, GROO R KOVZHV: BLF HSZOO SVZI NV. NB
	UZGSVI XSZITVW BLF RM SRH DROO GL TREV NV TLLW
	VWFXZGRLM: BLF SZEV GIZRMVW NV ORPV Z KVZHZMG,
	LYHXFIRMT ZMW SRWRMT UILN NV ZOO TVMGOVNZM-ORPV
	JFZORGRVH. GSV HKRIRG LU NB UZGSVI TILDH HGILMT RM
	NV, ZMW R DROO ML OLMTVI VMWFIV RG: GSVIVULIV ZOOLD
	NV HFXS VCVIXRHVH ZH NZB YVXLNV Z TVMGOVNZM, LI
	TREV NV GSV KLLI ZOOLGGVIB NB UZGSVI OVUG NV YB
	GVHGZNVMG; DRGS GSZG R DROO TL YFB NB ULIGFMVH.

LOREVI	ZMW DSZG DROG GSLF WL? YVT, DSVM GSZG RH HKVMG?
	DVOO, HRI, TVG BLF RM: R DROO MLG OLMT YV GILFYOVW
	DRGS BLF; BLF HSZOO SZEV HLNV KZIG LU BLFI DROO: R
	KIZB BLF, OVZEV NV.

LIOZMWL	R DROO ML UFIGSVI LUUVMW BLF GSZM YVXLNVH NV ULI NB TLLW.

LOREVI	TVG BLF DRGS SRN, BLF LOW WLT.

ZWZN	RH 'LOW WLT' NB IVDZIW? NLHG GIFV, R SZEV OLHG NB
	GVVGS RM BLFI HVIERXV. TLW YV DRGS NB LOW NZHGVI!
	SV DLFOW MLG SZEV HKLPV HFXS Z DLIW.

	[VCVFMG LIOZMWL ZMW ZWZN]

LOREVI	RH RG VEVM HL? YVTRM BLF GL TILD FKLM NV? R DROO
	KSBHRX BLFI IZMPMVHH, ZMW BVG TREV ML GSLFHZMW
	XILDMH MVRGSVI. SLOOZ, WVMMRH!

	[VMGVI WVMMRH]

WVMMRH	XZOOH BLFI DLIHSRK?

LOREVI	DZH MLG XSZIOVH, GSV WFPV'H DIVHGOVI, SVIV GL HKVZP DRGS NV?

WVMMRH	HL KOVZHV BLF, SV RH SVIV ZG GSV WLLI ZMW RNKLIGFMVH
	ZXXVHH GL BLF.

LOREVI	XZOO SRN RM.

	[VCRG WVMMRH]

	'GDROO YV Z TLLW DZB; ZMW GL-NLIILD GSV DIVHGORMT RH.

	[VMGVI XSZIOVH]

XSZIOVH	TLLW NLIILD GL BLFI DLIHSRK.

LOREVI	TLLW NLMHRVFI XSZIOVH, DSZG'H GSV MVD MVDH ZG GSV
	MVD XLFIG?

XSZIOVH	GSVIV'H ML MVDH ZG GSV XLFIG, HRI, YFG GSV LOW MVDH:
	GSZG RH, GSV LOW WFPV RH YZMRHSVW YB SRH BLFMTVI
	YILGSVI GSV MVD WFPV; ZMW GSIVV LI ULFI OLERMT OLIWH
	SZEV KFG GSVNHVOEVH RMGL ELOFMGZIB VCROV DRGS SRN,
	DSLHV OZMWH ZMW IVEVMFVH VMIRXS GSV MVD WFPV;
	GSVIVULIV SV TREVH GSVN TLLW OVZEV GL DZMWVI.

LOREVI	XZM BLF GVOO RU ILHZORMW, GSV WFPV'H WZFTSGVI, YV
	YZMRHSVW DRGS SVI UZGSVI?

XSZIOVH	L, ML; ULI GSV WFPV'H WZFTSGVI, SVI XLFHRM, HL OLEVH
	SVI, YVRMT VEVI UILN GSVRI XIZWOVH YIVW GLTVGSVI,
	GSZG HSV DLFOW SZEV ULOOLDVW SVI VCROV, LI SZEV WRVW
	GL HGZB YVSRMW SVI. HSV RH ZG GSV XLFIG, ZMW ML
	OVHH YVOLEVW LU SVI FMXOV GSZM SRH LDM WZFTSGVI; ZMW
	MVEVI GDL OZWRVH OLEVW ZH GSVB WL.

LOREVI	DSVIV DROO GSV LOW WFPV OREV?

XSZIOVH	GSVB HZB SV RH ZOIVZWB RM GSV ULIVHG LU ZIWVM, ZMW
	Z NZMB NVIIB NVM DRGS SRN; ZMW GSVIV GSVB OREV ORPV
	GSV LOW ILYRM SLLW LU VMTOZMW: GSVB HZB NZMB BLFMT
	TVMGOVNVM UOLXP GL SRN VEVIB WZB, ZMW UOVVG GSV GRNV
	XZIVOVHHOB, ZH GSVB WRW RM GSV TLOWVM DLIOW.

LOREVI	DSZG, BLF DIVHGOV GL-NLIILD YVULIV GSV MVD WFPV?

XSZIOVH	NZIIB, WL R, HRI; ZMW R XZNV GL ZXJFZRMG BLF DRGS Z
	NZGGVI. R ZN TREVM, HRI, HVXIVGOB GL FMWVIHGZMW
	GSZG BLFI BLFMTVI YILGSVI LIOZMWL SZGS Z WRHKLHRGRLM
	GL XLNV RM WRHTFRHVW ZTZRMHG NV GL GIB Z UZOO.
	GL-NLIILD, HRI, R DIVHGOV ULI NB XIVWRG; ZMW SV GSZG
	VHXZKVH NV DRGSLFG HLNV YILPVM ORNY HSZOO ZXJFRG SRN
	DVOO. BLFI YILGSVI RH YFG BLFMT ZMW GVMWVI; ZMW,
	ULI BLFI OLEV, R DLFOW YV OLZGS GL ULRO SRN, ZH R
	NFHG, ULI NB LDM SLMLFI, RU SV XLNV RM: GSVIVULIV,
	LFG LU NB OLEV GL BLF, R XZNV SRGSVI GL ZXJFZRMG BLF
	DRGSZO, GSZG VRGSVI BLF NRTSG HGZB SRN UILN SRH
	RMGVMWNVMG LI YILLP HFXS WRHTIZXV DVOO ZH SV HSZOO
	IFM RMGL, RM GSZG RG RH Z GSRMT LU SRH LDM HVZIXS
	ZMW ZOGLTVGSVI ZTZRMHG NB DROO.

LOREVI	XSZIOVH, R GSZMP GSVV ULI GSB OLEV GL NV, DSRXS
	GSLF HSZOG URMW R DROO NLHG PRMWOB IVJFRGV. R SZW
	NBHVOU MLGRXV LU NB YILGSVI'H KFIKLHV SVIVRM ZMW
	SZEV YB FMWVISZMW NVZMH OZYLFIVW GL WRHHFZWV SRN UILN
	RG, YFG SV RH IVHLOFGV. R'OO GVOO GSVV, XSZIOVH:
	RG RH GSV HGFYYLIMVHG BLFMT UVOOLD LU UIZMXV, UFOO
	LU ZNYRGRLM, ZM VMERLFH VNFOZGLI LU VEVIB NZM'H
	TLLW KZIGH, Z HVXIVG ZMW EROOZMLFH XLMGIREVI ZTZRMHG
	NV SRH MZGFIZO YILGSVI: GSVIVULIV FHV GSB
	WRHXIVGRLM; R SZW ZH ORVU GSLF WRWHG YIVZP SRH MVXP
	ZH SRH URMTVI. ZMW GSLF DVIG YVHG OLLP GL'G; ULI RU
	GSLF WLHG SRN ZMB HORTSG WRHTIZXV LI RU SV WL MLG
	NRTSGROB TIZXV SRNHVOU LM GSVV, SV DROO KIZXGRHV
	ZTZRMHG GSVV YB KLRHLM, VMGIZK GSVV YB HLNV
	GIVZXSVILFH WVERXV ZMW MVEVI OVZEV GSVV GROO SV
	SZGS GZ'VM GSB ORUV YB HLNV RMWRIVXG NVZMH LI LGSVI;
	ULI, R ZHHFIV GSVV, ZMW ZONLHG DRGS GVZIH R HKVZP
	RG, GSVIV RH MLG LMV HL BLFMT ZMW HL EROOZMLFH GSRH
	WZB ORERMT. R HKVZP YFG YILGSVIOB LU SRN; YFG
	HSLFOW R ZMZGLNRAV SRN GL GSVV ZH SV RH, R NFHG
	YOFHS ZMW DVVK ZMW GSLF NFHG OLLP KZOV ZMW DLMWVI.

XSZIOVH	R ZN SVZIGROB TOZW R XZNV SRGSVI GL BLF. RU SV XLNV
	GL-NLIILD, R'OO TREV SRN SRH KZBNVMG: RU VEVI SV TL
	ZOLMV ZTZRM, R'OO MVEVI DIVHGOV ULI KIRAV NLIV: ZMW
	HL TLW PVVK BLFI DLIHSRK!

LOREVI	UZIVDVOO, TLLW XSZIOVH.

	[VCRG XSZIOVH]

	MLD DROO R HGRI GSRH TZNVHGVI: R SLKV R HSZOO HVV
	ZM VMW LU SRN; ULI NB HLFO, BVG R PMLD MLG DSB,
	SZGVH MLGSRMT NLIV GSZM SV. BVG SV'H TVMGOV, MVEVI
	HXSLLOVW ZMW BVG OVZIMVW, UFOO LU MLYOV WVERXV, LU
	ZOO HLIGH VMXSZMGRMTOB YVOLEVW, ZMW RMWVVW HL NFXS
	RM GSV SVZIG LU GSV DLIOW, ZMW VHKVXRZOOB LU NB LDM
	KVLKOV, DSL YVHG PMLD SRN, GSZG R ZN ZOGLTVGSVI
	NRHKIRHVW: YFG RG HSZOO MLG YV HL OLMT; GSRH
	DIVHGOVI HSZOO XOVZI ZOO: MLGSRMT IVNZRMH YFG GSZG
	R PRMWOV GSV YLB GSRGSVI; DSRXS MLD R'OO TL ZYLFG.

	[VCRG]




	ZH BLF ORPV RG


ZXG R



HXVMV RR	OZDM YVULIV GSV WFPV'H KZOZXV.


	[VMGVI XVORZ ZMW ILHZORMW]

XVORZ	R KIZB GSVV, ILHZORMW, HDVVG NB XLA, YV NVIIB.

ILHZORMW	WVZI XVORZ, R HSLD NLIV NRIGS GSZM R ZN NRHGIVHH LU;
	ZMW DLFOW BLF BVG R DVIV NVIIRVI? FMOVHH BLF XLFOW
	GVZXS NV GL ULITVG Z YZMRHSVW UZGSVI, BLF NFHG MLG
	OVZIM NV SLD GL IVNVNYVI ZMB VCGIZLIWRMZIB KOVZHFIV.

XVORZ	SVIVRM R HVV GSLF OLEVHG NV MLG DRGS GSV UFOO DVRTSG
	GSZG R OLEV GSVV. RU NB FMXOV, GSB YZMRHSVW UZGSVI,
	SZW YZMRHSVW GSB FMXOV, GSV WFPV NB UZGSVI, HL GSLF
	SZWHG YVVM HGROO DRGS NV, R XLFOW SZEV GZFTSG NB
	OLEV GL GZPV GSB UZGSVI ULI NRMV: HL DLFOWHG GSLF,
	RU GSV GIFGS LU GSB OLEV GL NV DVIV HL IRTSGVLFHOB
	GVNKVIVW ZH NRMV RH GL GSVV.

ILHZORMW	DVOO, R DROO ULITVG GSV XLMWRGRLM LU NB VHGZGV, GL
	IVQLRXV RM BLFIH.

XVORZ	BLF PMLD NB UZGSVI SZGS ML XSROW YFG R, MLI MLMV RH
	ORPV GL SZEV: ZMW, GIFOB, DSVM SV WRVH, GSLF HSZOG
	YV SRH SVRI, ULI DSZG SV SZGS GZPVM ZDZB UILN GSB
	UZGSVI KVIULIXV, R DROO IVMWVI GSVV ZTZRM RM
	ZUUVXGRLM; YB NRMV SLMLFI, R DROO; ZMW DSVM R YIVZP
	GSZG LZGS, OVG NV GFIM NLMHGVI: GSVIVULIV, NB
	HDVVG ILHV, NB WVZI ILHV, YV NVIIB.

ILHZORMW	UILN SVMXVULIGS R DROO, XLA, ZMW WVERHV HKLIGH. OVG
	NV HVV; DSZG GSRMP BLF LU UZOORMT RM OLEV?

XVORZ	NZIIB, R KIRGSVV, WL, GL NZPV HKLIG DRGSZO: YFG
	OLEV ML NZM RM TLLW VZIMVHG; MLI ML UFIGSVI RM HKLIG
	MVRGSVI GSZM DRGS HZUVGB LU Z KFIV YOFHS GSLF NZBHG
	RM SLMLFI XLNV LUU ZTZRM.

ILHZORMW	DSZG HSZOO YV LFI HKLIG, GSVM?

XVORZ	OVG FH HRG ZMW NLXP GSV TLLW SLFHVDRUV ULIGFMV UILN
	SVI DSVVO, GSZG SVI TRUGH NZB SVMXVULIGS YV YVHGLDVW VJFZOOB.

ILHZORMW	R DLFOW DV XLFOW WL HL, ULI SVI YVMVURGH ZIV
	NRTSGROB NRHKOZXVW, ZMW GSV YLFMGRUFO YORMW DLNZM
	WLGS NLHG NRHGZPV RM SVI TRUGH GL DLNVM.

XVORZ	'GRH GIFV; ULI GSLHV GSZG HSV NZPVH UZRI HSV HXZIXV
	NZPVH SLMVHG, ZMW GSLHV GSZG HSV NZPVH SLMVHG HSV
	NZPVH EVIB ROO-UZELFIVWOB.

ILHZORMW	MZB, MLD GSLF TLVHG UILN ULIGFMV'H LUURXV GL
	MZGFIV'H: ULIGFMV IVRTMH RM TRUGH LU GSV DLIOW,
	MLG RM GSV ORMVZNVMGH LU MZGFIV.

	[VMGVI GLFXSHGLMV]

XVORZ	ML? DSVM MZGFIV SZGS NZWV Z UZRI XIVZGFIV, NZB HSV
	MLG YB ULIGFMV UZOO RMGL GSV URIV? GSLFTS MZGFIV
	SZGS TREVM FH DRG GL UOLFG ZG ULIGFMV, SZGS MLG
	ULIGFMV HVMG RM GSRH ULLO GL XFG LUU GSV ZITFNVMG?

ILHZORMW	RMWVVW, GSVIV RH ULIGFMV GLL SZIW ULI MZGFIV, DSVM
	ULIGFMV NZPVH MZGFIV'H MZGFIZO GSV XFGGVI-LUU LU
	MZGFIV'H DRG.

XVORZ	KVIZWEVMGFIV GSRH RH MLG ULIGFMV'H DLIP MVRGSVI, YFG
	MZGFIV'H; DSL KVIXVREVGS LFI MZGFIZO DRGH GLL WFOO
	GL IVZHLM LU HFXS TLWWVHHVH ZMW SZGS HVMG GSRH
	MZGFIZO ULI LFI DSVGHGLMV; ULI ZODZBH GSV WFOMVHH LU
	GSV ULLO RH GSV DSVGHGLMV LU GSV DRGH. SLD MLD,
	DRG! DSRGSVI DZMWVI BLF?

GLFXSHGLMV	NRHGIVHH, BLF NFHG XLNV ZDZB GL BLFI UZGSVI.

XVORZ	DVIV BLF NZWV GSV NVHHVMTVI?

GLFXSHGLMV	ML, YB NRMV SLMLFI, YFG R DZH YRW GL XLNV ULI BLF.

ILHZORMW	DSVIV OVZIMVW BLF GSZG LZGS, ULLO?

GLFXSHGLMV	LU Z XVIGZRM PMRTSG GSZG HDLIV YB SRH SLMLFI GSVB
	DVIV TLLW KZMXZPVH ZMW HDLIV YB SRH SLMLFI GSV
	NFHGZIW DZH MZFTSG: MLD R'OO HGZMW GL RG, GSV
	KZMXZPVH DVIV MZFTSG ZMW GSV NFHGZIW DZH TLLW, ZMW
	BVG DZH MLG GSV PMRTSG ULIHDLIM.

XVORZ	SLD KILEV BLF GSZG, RM GSV TIVZG SVZK LU BLFI
	PMLDOVWTV?

ILHZORMW	ZB, NZIIB, MLD FMNFAAOV BLFI DRHWLN.

GLFXSHGLMV	HGZMW BLF YLGS ULIGS MLD: HGILPV BLFI XSRMH, ZMW
	HDVZI YB BLFI YVZIWH GSZG R ZN Z PMZEV.

XVORZ	YB LFI YVZIWH, RU DV SZW GSVN, GSLF ZIG.

GLFXSHGLMV	YB NB PMZEVIB, RU R SZW RG, GSVM R DVIV; YFG RU BLF
	HDVZI YB GSZG GSZG RH MLG, BLF ZIV MLG ULIHDLIM: ML
	NLIV DZH GSRH PMRTSG HDVZIRMT YB SRH SLMLFI, ULI SV
	MVEVI SZW ZMB; LI RU SV SZW, SV SZW HDLIM RG ZDZB
	YVULIV VEVI SV HZD GSLHV KZMXZPVH LI GSZG NFHGZIW.

XVORZ	KIRGSVV, DSL RH'G GSZG GSLF NVZMVHG?

GLFXSHGLMV	LMV GSZG LOW UIVWVIRXP, BLFI UZGSVI, OLEVH.

XVORZ	NB UZGSVI'H OLEV RH VMLFTS GL SLMLFI SRN: VMLFTS!
	HKVZP ML NLIV LU SRN; BLF'OO YV DSRKKVW ULI GZCZGRLM
	LMV LU GSVHV WZBH.

GLFXSHGLMV	GSV NLIV KRGB, GSZG ULLOH NZB MLG HKVZP DRHVOB DSZG
	DRHV NVM WL ULLORHSOB.

XVORZ	YB NB GILGS, GSLF HZBVHG GIFV; ULI HRMXV GSV ORGGOV
	DRG GSZG ULLOH SZEV DZH HROVMXVW, GSV ORGGOV ULLOVIB
	GSZG DRHV NVM SZEV NZPVH Z TIVZG HSLD. SVIV XLNVH
