	[To ORLANDO]

	To you I give myself, for I am yours.

DUKE SENIOR	If there be truth in sight, you are my daughter.

ORLANDO	If there be truth in sight, you are my Rosalind.

PHEBE	If sight and shape be true,
	Why then, my love adieu!

ROSALIND	I'll have no father, if you be not he:
	I'll have no husband, if you be not he:
	Nor ne'er wed woman, if you be not she.

HYMEN	        Peace, ho! I bar confusion:
	'Tis I must make conclusion
	Of these most strange events:
	Here's eight that must take hands
	To join in Hymen's bands,
	If truth holds true contents.
	You and you no cross shall part:
	You and you are heart in heart
	You to his love must accord,
	Or have a woman to your lord:
	You and you are sure together,
	As the winter to foul weather.
	Whiles a wedlock-hymn we sing,
	Feed yourselves with questioning;
	That reason wonder may diminish,
	How thus we met, and these things finish.

	SONG.
	Wedding is great Juno's crown:
	O blessed bond of board and bed!
	'Tis Hymen peoples every town;
	High wedlock then be honoured:
	Honour, high honour and renown,
	To Hymen, god of every town!

DUKE SENIOR	O my dear niece, welcome thou art to me!
	Even daughter, welcome, in no less degree.

PHEBE	I will not eat my word, now thou art mine;
	Thy faith my fancy to thee doth combine.

	[Enter JAQUES DE BOYS]

JAQUES DE BOYS	Let me have audience for a word or two:
	I am the second son of old Sir Rowland,
	That bring these tidings to this fair assembly.
	Duke Frederick, hearing how that every day
	Men of great worth resorted to this forest,
	Address'd a mighty power; which were on foot,
	In his own conduct, purposely to take
	His brother here and put him to the sword:
	And to the skirts of this wild wood he came;
	Where meeting with an old religious man,
	After some question with him, was converted
	Both from his enterprise and from the world,
	His crown bequeathing to his banish'd brother,
	And all their lands restored to them again
	That were with him exiled. This to be true,
	I do engage my life.

DUKE SENIOR	Welcome, young man;
	Thou offer'st fairly to thy brothers' wedding:
	To one his lands withheld, and to the other
	A land itself at large, a potent dukedom.
	First, in this forest, let us do those ends
	That here were well begun and well begot:
	And after, every of this happy number
	That have endured shrewd days and nights with us
	Shall share the good of our returned fortune,
	According to the measure of their states.
	Meantime, forget this new-fall'n dignity
	And fall into our rustic revelry.
	Play, music! And you, brides and bridegrooms all,
	With measure heap'd in joy, to the measures fall.

JAQUES	Sir, by your patience. If I heard you rightly,
	The duke hath put on a religious life
	And thrown into neglect the pompous court?

JAQUES DE BOYS	He hath.

JAQUES	To him will I : out of these convertites
	There is much matter to be heard and learn'd.

	[To DUKE SENIOR]

	You to your former honour I bequeath;
	Your patience and your virtue well deserves it:

	[To ORLANDO]

	You to a love that your true faith doth merit:

	[To OLIVER]

	You to your land and love and great allies:

	[To SILVIUS]

	You to a long and well-deserved bed:

	[To TOUCHSTONE]

	And you to wrangling; for thy loving voyage
	Is but for two months victuall'd. So, to your pleasures:
	I am for other than for dancing measures.

DUKE SENIOR	Stay, Jaques, stay.

JAQUES	To see no pastime I	what you would have
	I'll stay to know at your abandon'd cave.

	[Exit]

DUKE SENIOR	Proceed, proceed: we will begin these rites,
	As we do trust they'll end, in true delights.

	[A dance]




	AS YOU LIKE IT

	EPILOGUE


ROSALIND	It is not the fashion to see the lady the epilogue;
	but it is no more unhandsome than to see the lord
	the prologue. If it be true that good wine needs
	no bush, 'tis true that a good play needs no
	epilogue; yet to good wine they do use good bushes,
	and good plays prove the better by the help of good
	epilogues. What a case am I in then, that am
	neither a good epilogue nor cannot insinuate with
	you in the behalf of a good play! I am not
	furnished like a beggar, therefore to beg will not
	become me: my way is to conjure you; and I'll begin
	with the women. I charge you, O women, for the love
	you bear to men, to like as much of this play as
	please you: and I charge you, O men, for the love
	you bear to women--as I perceive by your simpering,
	none of you hates them--that between you and the
	women the play may please. If I were a woman I
	would kiss as many of you as had beards that pleased
	me, complexions that liked me and breaths that I
	defied not: and, I am sure, as many as have good
	beards or good faces or sweet breaths will, for my
	kind offer, when I make curtsy, bid me farewell.

	[Exeunt]


The Project Gutenberg Etext of LOC WORKSHOP ON ELECTRONIC TEXTS




                      WORKSHOP ON ELECTRONIC TEXTS

                               PROCEEDINGS



                          Edited by James Daly







                             9-10 June 1992


                           Library of Congress
                            Washington, D.C.



    Supported by a Grant from the David and Lucile Packard Foundation


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                            TABLE OF CONTENTS


Acknowledgements

Introduction

Proceedings
   Welcome
      Prosser Gifford and Carl Fleischhauer

   Session I.  Content in a New Form:  Who Will Use It and What Will They Do?
      James Daly (Moderator)
      Avra Michelson, Overview
      Susan H. Veccia, User Evaluation
      Joanne Freeman, Beyond the Scholar
         Discussion

   Session II.  Show and Tell
      Jacqueline Hess (Moderator)
      Elli Mylonas, Perseus Project
         Discussion
      Eric M. Calaluca, Patrologia Latina Database
      Carl Fleischhauer and Ricky Erway, American Memory
         Discussion
      Dorothy Twohig, The Papers of George Washington
         Discussion
      Maria L. Lebron, The Online Journal of Current Clinical Trials
         Discussion
      Lynne K. Personius, Cornell mathematics books
         Discussion

   Session III.  Distribution, Networks, and Networking:
                 Options for Dissemination
      Robert G. Zich (Moderator)
      Clifford A. Lynch
         Discussion
      Howard Besser
         Discussion
      Ronald L. Larsen
      Edwin B. Brownrigg
         Discussion

   Session IV.  Image Capture, Text Capture, Overview of Text and
                Image Storage Formats
         William L. Hooton (Moderator)
      A) Principal Methods for Image Capture of Text:
            direct scanning, use of microform
         Anne R. Kenney
         Pamela Q.J. Andre
         Judith A. Zidar
         Donald J. Waters
            Discussion
      B) Special Problems:  bound volumes, conservation,
                            reproducing printed halftones
         George Thoma
         Carl Fleischhauer
            Discussion
      C) Image Standards and Implications for Preservation
         Jean Baronas
         Patricia Battin
            Discussion
      D) Text Conversion:  OCR vs. rekeying, standards of accuracy
                           and use of imperfect texts, service bureaus
         Michael Lesk
         Ricky Erway
         Judith A. Zidar
            Discussion

   Session V.  Approaches to Preparing Electronic Texts
      Susan Hockey (Moderator)
      Stuart Weibel
         Discussion
      C.M. Sperberg-McQueen
         Discussion
      Eric M. Calaluca
         Discussion

   Session VI.  Copyright Issues
      Marybeth Peters

   Session VII.  Conclusion
      Prosser Gifford (Moderator)
      General discussion

Appendix I:  Program

Appendix II:  Abstracts

Appendix III:  Directory of Participants


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                            Acknowledgements

I would like to thank Carl Fleischhauer and Prosser Gifford for the
opportunity to learn about areas of human activity unknown to me a scant
ten months ago, and the David and Lucile Packard Foundation for
supporting that opportunity.  The help given by others is acknowledged on
a separate page.

                                                          19 October 1992


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                              INTRODUCTION

The Workshop on Electronic Texts (1) drew together representatives of
various projects and interest groups to compare ideas, beliefs,
experiences, and, in particular, methods of placing and presenting
historical textual materials in computerized form.  Most attendees gained
much in insight and outlook from the event.  But the assembly did not
form a new nation, or, to put it another way, the diversity of projects
and interests was too great to draw the representatives into a cohesive,
action-oriented body.(2)

Everyone attending the Workshop shared an interest in preserving and
providing access to historical texts.  But within this broad field the
attendees represented a variety of formal, informal, figurative, and
literal groups, with many individuals belonging to more than one.  These
groups may be defined roughly according to the following topics or
activities:

* Imaging
* Searchable coded texts
* National and international computer networks
* CD-ROM production and dissemination
* Methods and technology for converting older paper materials into
electronic form
* Study of the use of digital materials by scholars and others

This summary is arranged thematically and does not follow the actual
sequence of presentations.

NOTES:
     (1)  In this document, the phrase electronic text is used to mean
     any computerized reproduction or version of a document, book,
     article, or manuscript (including images), and not merely a machine-
     readable or machine-searchable text.

     (2)  The Workshop was held at the Library of Congress on 9-10 June
     1992, with funding from the David and Lucile Packard Foundation.
     The document that follows represents a summary of the presentations
     made at the Workshop and was compiled by James DALY.  This
     introduction was written by DALY and Carl FLEISCHHAUER.


PRESERVATION AND IMAGING

Preservation, as that term is used by archivists,(3) was most explicitly
discussed in the context of imaging.  Anne KENNEY and Lynne PERSONIUS
explained how the concept of a faithful copy and the user-friendliness of
the traditional book have guided their project at Cornell University.(4)
Although interested in computerized dissemination, participants in the
Cornell project are creating digital image sets of older books in the
public domain as a source for a fresh paper facsimile or, in a future
phase, microfilm.  The books returned to the library shelves are
high-quality and useful replacements on acid-free paper that should last
a long time.  To date, the Cornell project has placed little or no
emphasis on creating searchable texts; one would not be surprised to find
that the project participants view such texts as new editions, and thus
not as faithful reproductions.

In her talk on preservation, Patricia BATTIN struck an ecumenical and
flexible note as she endorsed the creation and dissemination of a variety
of types of digital copies.  Do not be too narrow in defining what counts
as a preservation element, BATTIN counseled; for the present, at least,
digital copies made with preservation in mind cannot be as narrowly
standardized as, say, microfilm copies with the same objective.  Setting
standards precipitously can inhibit creativity, but delay can result in
chaos, she advised.

In part, BATTIN's position reflected the unsettled nature of image-format
standards, and attendees could hear echoes of this unsettledness in the
comments of various speakers.  For example, Jean BARONAS reviewed the
status of several formal standards moving through committees of experts;
and Clifford LYNCH encouraged the use of a new guideline for transmitting
document images on Internet.  Testimony from participants in the National
Agricultural Library's (NAL) Text Digitization Program and LC's American
Memory project highlighted some of the challenges to the actual creation
or interchange of images, including difficulties in converting
preservation microfilm to digital form.  Donald WATERS reported on the
progress of a master plan for a project at Yale University to convert
books on microfilm to digital image sets, Project Open Book (POB).

The Workshop offered rather less of an imaging practicum than planned,
but "how-to" hints emerge at various points, for example, throughout
KENNEY's presentation and in the discussion of arcana such as
thresholding and dithering offered by George THOMA and FLEISCHHAUER.

NOTES:
     (3)  Although there is a sense in which any reproductions of
     historical materials preserve the human record, specialists in the
     field have developed particular guidelines for the creation of
     acceptable preservation copies.

     (4)  Titles and affiliations of presenters are given at the
     beginning of their respective talks and in the Directory of
     Participants (Appendix III).


THE MACHINE-READABLE TEXT:  MARKUP AND USE

The sections of the Workshop that dealt with machine-readable text tended
to be more concerned with access and use than with preservation, at least
in the narrow technical sense.  Michael SPERBERG-McQUEEN made a forceful
presentation on the Text Encoding Initiative's (TEI) implementation of
the Standard Generalized Markup Language (SGML).  His ideas were echoed
by Susan HOCKEY, Elli MYLONAS, and Stuart WEIBEL.  While the
presentations made by the TEI advocates contained no practicum, their
discussion focused on the value of the finished product, what the
European Community calls reusability, but what may also be termed
durability.  They argued that marking up--that is, coding--a text in a
well-conceived way will permit it to be moved from one computer
environment to another, as well as to be used by various users.  Two
kinds of markup were distinguished:  1) procedural markup, which
describes the features of a text (e.g., dots on a page), and 2)
descriptive markup, which describes the structure or elements of a
document (e.g., chapters, paragraphs, and front matter).

The TEI proponents emphasized the importance of texts to scholarship.
They explained how heavily coded (and thus analyzed and annotated) texts
can underlie research, play a role in scholarly communication, and
facilitate classroom teaching.  SPERBERG-McQUEEN reminded listeners that
a written or printed item (e.g., a particular edition of a book) is
merely a representation of the abstraction we call a text.  To concern
ourselves with faithfully reproducing a printed instance of the text,
SPERBERG-McQUEEN argued, is to concern ourselves with the representation
of a representation ("images as simulacra for the text").  The TEI proponents'
interest in images tends to focus on corollary materials for use in teaching,
for example, photographs of the Acropolis to accompany a Greek text.

By the end of the Workshop, SPERBERG-McQUEEN confessed to having been
converted to a limited extent to the view that electronic images
constitute a promising alternative to microfilming; indeed, an
alternative probably superior to microfilming.  But he was not convinced
that electronic images constitute a serious attempt to represent text in
electronic form.  HOCKEY and MYLONAS also conceded that their experience
at the Pierce Symposium the previous week at Georgetown University and
the present conference at the Library of Congress had compelled them to
reevaluate their perspective on the usefulness of text as images.
Attendees could see that the text and image advocates were in
constructive tension, so to say.

Three nonTEI presentations described approaches to preparing
machine-readable text that are less rigorous and thus less expensive.  In
the case of the Papers of George Washington, Dorothy TWOHIG explained
that the digital version will provide a not-quite-perfect rendering of
the transcribed text--some 135,000 documents, available for research
during the decades while the perfect or print version is completed.
Members of the American Memory team and the staff of NAL's Text
Digitization Program (see below) also outlined a middle ground concerning
searchable texts.  In the case of American Memory, contractors produce
texts with about 99-percent accuracy that serve as "browse" or
"reference" versions of written or printed originals.  End users who need
faithful copies or perfect renditions must refer to accompanying sets of
digital facsimile images or consult copies of the originals in a nearby
library or archive.  American Memory staff argued that the high cost of
producing 100-percent accurate copies would prevent LC from offering
access to large parts of its collections.


THE MACHINE-READABLE TEXT:  METHODS OF CONVERSION

Although the Workshop did not include a systematic examination of the
methods for converting texts from paper (or from facsimile images) into
machine-readable form, nevertheless, various speakers touched upon this
matter.  For example, WEIBEL reported that OCLC has experimented with a
merging of multiple optical character recognition systems that will
reduce errors from an unacceptable rate of 5 characters out of every
l,000 to an unacceptable rate of 2 characters out of every l,000.

Pamela ANDRE presented an overview of NAL's Text Digitization Program and
Judith ZIDAR discussed the technical details.  ZIDAR explained how NAL
purchased hardware and software capable of performing optical character
recognition (OCR) and text conversion and used its own staff to convert
texts.  The process, ZIDAR said, required extensive editing and project
staff found themselves considering alternatives, including rekeying
and/or creating abstracts or summaries of texts.  NAL reckoned costs at
$7 per page.  By way of contrast, Ricky ERWAY explained that American
Memory had decided from the start to contract out conversion to external
service bureaus.  The criteria used to select these contractors were cost
and quality of results, as opposed to methods of conversion.  ERWAY noted
that historical documents or books often do not lend themselves to OCR.
Bound materials represent a special problem.  In her experience, quality
control--inspecting incoming materials, counting errors in samples--posed
the most time-consuming aspect of contracting out conversion.  ERWAY
reckoned American Memory's costs at $4 per page, but cautioned that fewer
cost-elements had been included than in NAL's figure.


OPTIONS FOR DISSEMINATION

The topic of dissemination proper emerged at various points during the
Workshop.  At the session devoted to national and international computer
networks, LYNCH, Howard BESSER, Ronald LARSEN, and Edwin BROWNRIGG
highlighted the virtues of Internet today and of the network that will
evolve from Internet.  Listeners could discern in these narratives a
vision of an information democracy in which millions of citizens freely
find and use what they need.  LYNCH noted that a lack of standards
inhibits disseminating multimedia on the network, a topic also discussed
by BESSER.  LARSEN addressed the issues of network scalability and
modularity and commented upon the difficulty of anticipating the effects
of growth in orders of magnitude.  BROWNRIGG talked about the ability of
packet radio to provide certain links in a network without the need for
wiring.  However, the presenters also called attention to the
shortcomings and incongruities of present-day computer networks.  For
example:  1) Network use is growing dramatically, but much network
traffic consists of personal communication (E-mail).  2) Large bodies of
information are available, but a user's ability to search across their
entirety is limited.  3) There are significant resources for science and
technology, but few network sources provide content in the humanities.
4) Machine-readable texts are commonplace, but the capability of the
system to deal with images (let alone other media formats) lags behind.
A glimpse of a multimedia future for networks, however, was provided by
Maria LEBRON in her overview of the Online Journal of Current Clinical
Trials (OJCCT), and the process of scholarly publishing on-line.

The contrasting form of the CD-ROM disk was never systematically
analyzed, but attendees could glean an impression from several of the
show-and-tell presentations.  The Perseus and American Memory examples
demonstrated recently published disks, while the descriptions of the
IBYCUS version of the Papers of George Washington and Chadwyck-Healey's
Patrologia Latina Database (PLD) told of disks to come.  According to
Eric CALALUCA, PLD's principal focus has been on converting Jacques-Paul
Migne's definitive collection of Latin texts to machine-readable form.
Although everyone could share the network advocates' enthusiasm for an
on-line future, the possibility of rolling up one's sleeves for a session
with a CD-ROM containing both textual materials and a powerful retrieval
engine made the disk seem an appealing vessel indeed.  The overall
discussion suggested that the transition from CD-ROM to on-line networked
access may prove far slower and more difficult than has been anticipated.


WHO ARE THE USERS AND WHAT DO THEY DO?

Although concerned with the technicalities of production, the Workshop
never lost sight of the purposes and uses of electronic versions of
textual materials.  As noted above, those interested in imaging discussed
the problematical matter of digital preservation, while the TEI proponents
described how machine-readable texts can be used in research.  This latter
topic received thorough treatment in the paper read by Avra MICHELSON.
She placed the phenomenon of electronic texts within the context of
broader trends in information technology and scholarly communication.

Among other things, MICHELSON described on-line conferences that
represent a vigorous and important intellectual forum for certain
disciplines.  Internet now carries more than 700 conferences, with about
80 percent of these devoted to topics in the social sciences and the
humanities.  Other scholars use on-line networks for "distance learning."
Meanwhile, there has been a tremendous growth in end-user computing;
professors today are less likely than their predecessors to ask the
campus computer center to process their data.  Electronic texts are one
key to these sophisticated applications, MICHELSON reported, and more and
more scholars in the humanities now work in an on-line environment.
Toward the end of the Workshop, Michael LESK presented a corollary to
MICHELSON's talk, reporting the results of an experiment that compared
the work of one group of chemistry students using traditional printed
texts and two groups using electronic sources.  The experiment
demonstrated that in the event one does not know what to read, one needs
the electronic systems; the electronic systems hold no advantage at the
moment if one knows what to read, but neither do they impose a penalty.

DALY provided an anecdotal account of the revolutionizing impact of the
new technology on his previous methods of research in the field of classics.
His account, by extrapolation, served to illustrate in part the arguments
made by MICHELSON concerning the positive effects of the sudden and radical
transformation being wrought in the ways scholars work.

Susan VECCIA and Joanne FREEMAN delineated the use of electronic
materials outside the university.  The most interesting aspect of their
use, FREEMAN said, could be seen as a paradox:  teachers in elementary
and secondary schools requested access to primary source materials but,
at the same time, found that "primariness" itself made these materials
difficult for their students to use.


OTHER TOPICS

Marybeth PETERS reviewed copyright law in the United States and offered
advice during a lively discussion of this subject.  But uncertainty
remains concerning the price of copyright in a digital medium, because a
solution remains to be worked out concerning management and synthesis of
copyrighted and out-of-copyright pieces of a database.

As moderator of the final session of the Workshop, Prosser GIFFORD directed
discussion to future courses of action and the potential role of LC in
advancing them.  Among the recommendations that emerged were the following:

     * Workshop participants should 1) begin to think about working
     with image material, but structure and digitize it in such a
     way that at a later stage it can be interpreted into text, and
     2) find a common way to build text and images together so that
     they can be used jointly at some stage in the future, with
     appropriate network support, because that is how users will want
     to access these materials.  The Library might encourage attempts
     to bring together people who are working on texts and images.

     * A network version of American Memory should be developed or
     consideration should be given to making the data in it
     available to people interested in doing network multimedia.
     Given the current dearth of digital data that is appealing and
     unencumbered by extremely complex rights problems, developing a
     network version of American Memory could do much to help make
     network multimedia a reality.

     * Concerning the thorny issue of electronic deposit, LC should
     initiate a catalytic process in terms of distributed
     responsibility, that is, bring together the distributed
     organizations and set up a study group to look at all the
     issues related to electronic deposit and see where we as a
     nation should move.  For example, LC might attempt to persuade
     one major library in each state to deal with its state
     equivalent publisher, which might produce a cooperative project
     that would be equitably distributed around the country, and one
     in which LC would be dealing with a minimal number of publishers
     and minimal copyright problems.  LC must also deal with the
     concept of on-line publishing, determining, among other things,
     how serials such as OJCCT might be deposited for copyright.

     * Since a number of projects are planning to carry out
     preservation by creating digital images that will end up in
     on-line or near-line storage at some institution, LC might play
     a helpful role, at least in the near term, by accelerating how
     to catalog that information into the Research Library Information
     Network (RLIN) and then into OCLC, so that it would be accessible.
     This would reduce the possibility of multiple institutions digitizing
     the same work.


CONCLUSION

The Workshop was valuable because it brought together partisans from
various groups and provided an occasion to compare goals and methods.
The more committed partisans frequently communicate with others in their
groups, but less often across group boundaries.  The Workshop was also
valuable to attendees--including those involved with American Memory--who
came less committed to particular approaches or concepts.  These
attendees learned a great deal, and plan to select and employ elements of
imaging, text-coding, and networked distribution that suit their
respective projects and purposes.

Still, reality rears its ugly head:  no breakthrough has been achieved.
On the imaging side, one confronts a proliferation of competing
data-interchange standards and a lack of consensus on the role of digital
facsimiles in preservation.  In the realm of machine-readable texts, one
encounters a reasonably mature standard but methodological difficulties
and high costs.  These latter problems, of course, represent a special
impediment to the desire, as it is sometimes expressed in the popular
press, "to put the [contents of the] Library of Congress on line."  In
the words of one participant, there was "no solution to the economic
problems--the projects that are out there are surviving, but it is going
to be a lot of work to transform the information industry, and so far the
investment to do that is not forthcoming" (LESK, per litteras).


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                               PROCEEDINGS


WELCOME

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
GIFFORD * Origin of Workshop in current Librarian's desire to make LC's
collections more widely available * Desiderata arising from the prospect
of greater interconnectedness *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

After welcoming participants on behalf of the Library of Congress,
American Memory (AM), and the National Demonstration Lab, Prosser
GIFFORD, director for scholarly programs, Library of Congress, located
the origin of the Workshop on Electronic Texts in a conversation he had
had considerably more than a year ago with Carl FLEISCHHAUER concerning
some of the issues faced by AM.  On the assumption that numerous other
people were asking the same questions, the decision was made to bring
together as many of these people as possible to ask the same questions
together.  In a deeper sense, GIFFORD said, the origin of the Workshop
lay in the dVHRIV LU GSV XFIIVMG ORYIZIRZM LU XLMTIVHH, QZNVH S.
YROORMTGLM, GL NZPV GSV XLOOVXGRLMH LU GSV ORYIZIB, VHKVXRZOOB GSLHV
LUUVIRMT FMRJFV LI FMFHFZO GVHGRNLMB LM ZHKVXGH LU GSV ZNVIRXZM
VCKVIRVMXV, ZEZROZYOV GL Z NFXS DRWVI XRIXOV LU FHVIH GSZM GSLHV UVD
KVLKOV DSL XZM XLNV GL DZHSRMTGLM GL FHV GSVN.  GSRH NVZMG GSZG GSV
VNKSZHRH LU ZN, UILN GSV LFGHVG, SZH YVVM LM ZIXSREZO XLOOVXGRLMH LU GSV
YZHRX NZGVIRZO, ZMW LM NZPRMT GSVHV XLOOVXGRLMH GSVNHVOEVH ZEZROZYOV,
IZGSVI GSZM HVOVXGVW LI SVZEROB VWRGVW KILWFXGH.

UILN ZN'H VNKSZHRH ULOOLDVW GSV JFVHGRLMH DRGS DSRXS GSV DLIPHSLK YVTZM:
DSL DROO FHV GSVHV NZGVIRZOH, ZMW RM DSZG ULIN DROO GSVB DRHS GL FHV
GSVN.  YFG ZM VEVM OZITVI RHHFV WVHVIERMT NVMGRLM, RM TRUULIW'H ERVD, DZH
GSV KSVMLNVMZO TILDGS RM RMGVIMVG XLMMVXGRERGB.  SV VCKIVHHVW GSV SLKV
GSZG GSV KILHKVXG LU TIVZGVI RMGVIXLMMVXGVWMVHH GSZM VEVI YVULIV DLFOW
OVZW GL:  1) NFXS NLIV XLLKVIZGREV ZMW NFGFZOOB HFKKLIGREV VMWVZELIH; 2)
WVEVOLKNVMG LU HBHGVNH LU HSZIVW ZMW WRHGIRYFGVW IVHKLMHRYRORGRVH GL
ZELRW WFKORXZGRLM ZMW GL VMHFIV ZXXFIZXB ZMW KIVHVIEZGRLM LU FMRJFV
NZGVIRZOH; ZMW 3) ZTIVVNVMG LM GSV MVXVHHZIB HGZMWZIWH ZMW WVEVOLKNVMG LU
GSV ZKKILKIRZGV WRIVXGLIRVH ZMW RMWRXVH GL NZPV MZERTZGRLM
HGIZRTSGULIDZIW ZNLMT GSV EZIRVW IVHLFIXVH GSZG ZIV, ZMW RMXIVZHRMTOB
DROO YV, ZEZROZYOV.  RM GSRH XLMMVXGRLM, TRUULIW IVJFVHGVW GSZG
KZIGRXRKZMGH IVUOVXG UILN GSV LFGHVG FKLM GSV HLIGH LU LFGXLNVH GSVB
GSLFTSG GSV DLIPHSLK NRTSG SZEV.  WRW GSLHV KIVHVMG XLMHGRGFGV Z TILFK
DRGS HFUURXRVMG XLNNLM RMGVIVHGH GL KILKLHV Z MVCG HGVK LI MVCG HGVKH,
ZMW RU HL, DSZG NRTSG GSLHV YV?  GSVB DLFOW IVGFIM GL GSVHV JFVHGRLMH GSV
ULOOLDRMT ZUGVIMLLM.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
UOVRHXSSZFVI * XLIV LU DLIPHSLK XLMXVIMH KIVKZIZGRLM ZMW KILWFXGRLM LU
NZGVIRZOH * HKVXRZO XSZOOVMTV RM XLMEVIHRLM LU GVCGFZO NZGVIRZOH *
JFZORGB EVIHFH JFZMGRGB * WL GSV HVEVIZO TILFKH IVKIVHVMGVW HSZIV XLNNLM
RMGVIVHGH? *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

XZIO UOVRHXSSZFVI, XLLIWRMZGLI, ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB, ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH,
VNKSZHRAVW GSZG SV DLFOW ZGGVNKG GL IVKIVHVMG GSV KVLKOV DSL KVIULIN HLNV
LU GSV DLIP LU XLMEVIGRMT LI KIVKZIRMT  NZGVIRZOH ZMW GSZG GSV XLIV LU
GSV DLIPHSLK SZW GL WL DRGS KIVKZIZGRLM ZMW KILWFXGRLM.  UOVRHXSSZFVI
GSVM WIVD Z WRHGRMXGRLM YVGDVVM GSV OLMT GVIN, DSVM NZMB GSRMTH DLFOW YV
ZEZROZYOV ZMW XLMMVXGVW RM GSV DZBH GSZG TRUULIW WVHXIRYVW, ZMW GSV HSLIG
GVIN, RM DSRXS ZN MLG LMOB SZH DIVHGOVW DRGS GSV RHHFV LU DSZG RH GSV
YVHG XLFIHV GL KFIHFV YFG ZOHL SZH UZXVW Z EZIRVGB LU GVXSMRXZO
XSZOOVMTVH.

UOVRHXSSZFVI IVNZIPVW ZN'H VMWVZELIH GL WVZO DRGS Z DRWV IZMTV LU ORYIZIB
ULINZGH, HFXS ZH NLGRLM KRXGFIV XLOOVXGRLMH, HLFMW-IVXLIWRMT XLOOVXGRLMH,
ZMW KRXGLIRZO XLOOVXGRLMH LU EZIRLFH HLIGH, VHKVXRZOOB XLOOVXGRLMH LU
KSLGLTIZKSH.  RM GSV XLFIHV LU GSVHV VUULIGH, ZN PVKG XLNRMT YZXP GL
GVCGFZO NZGVIRZOH--NZMFHXIRKGH LI IZIV KIRMGVW NZGGVI, YLFMW NZGVIRZOH,
VGX.  GVCG KLHVW GSV TIVZGVHG XLMEVIHRLM XSZOOVMTV LU ZOO.  GSFH, GSV
TVMVHRH LU GSV DLIPHSLK, DSRXS IVUOVXGH GSV KILYOVNH UZXVW YB ZN.  GSVHV
KILYOVNH RMXOFWV KSBHRXZO KILYOVNH.  ULI VCZNKOV, GSLHV RM GSV ORYIZIB
ZMW ZIXSREV YFHRMVHH WVZO DRGS XLOOVXGRLMH NZWV FK LU UIZTROV ZMW IZIV
NZMFHXIRKG RGVNH, YLFMW NZGVIRZOH, VHKVXRZOOB GSV MLGLIRLFHOB YIRGGOV
YLFMW NZGVIRZOH LU GSV OZGV MRMVGVVMGS XVMGFIB.  GSVHV ZIV KIVXRLFH
XFOGFIZO ZIGRUZXGH, SLDVEVI, ZH DVOO ZH RMGVIVHGRMT HLFIXVH LU
RMULINZGRLM, ZMW OX WVHRIVH GL IVGZRM ZMW XLMHVIEV GSVN.  ZN MVVWH GL
SZMWOV GSRMTH DRGSLFG WZNZTRMT GSVN.  TFROOLGRMRMT Z YLLP GL IFM RG
GSILFTS Z HSVVG UVVWVI NFHG YV ZELRWVW ZG ZOO XLHGH.

YVBLMW KSBHRXZO KILYOVNH, RHHFVH KVIGZRMRMT GL JFZORGB ZILHV.  ULI
VCZNKOV, GSV WVHRIV GL KILERWV FHVIH DRGS Z HVZIXSZYOV GVCG RH ZUUVXGVW
YB GSV JFVHGRLM LU ZXXVKGZYOV OVEVO LU ZXXFIZXB.  LMV SFMWIVW KVIXVMG
ZXXFIZXB RH GIVNVMWLFHOB VCKVMHREV.  LM GSV LGSVI SZMW, GSV LFGKFG LU
LKGRXZO XSZIZXGVI IVXLTMRGRLM (LXI) XZM YV GIVNVMWLFHOB RMZXXFIZGV.
ZOGSLFTS ZN SZH ZGGVNKGVW GL URMW Z NRWWOV TILFMW, FMXVIGZRMGB KVIHRHGH
ZH GL DSVGSVI LI MLG RG SZH WRHXLEVIVW GSV IRTSG HLOFGRLM.

JFVHGRLMH LU JFZORGB ZILHV XLMXVIMRMT RNZTVH ZH DVOO.  UOVRHXSSZFVI
XLMGIZHGVW GSV VCGIVNVOB SRTS OVEVO LU JFZORGB LU GSV WRTRGZO RNZTVH RM
GSV XLIMVOO CVILC KILQVXG DRGS ZN'H VUULIGH GL KILERWV Z YILDHV-JFZORGB
LI ZXXVHH-JFZORGB RNZTV, ZH LKKLHVW GL ZM ZIXSREZO LI KIVHVIEZGRLM RNZTV.
UOVRHXSSZFVI GSVIVULIV DVOXLNVW GSV LKKLIGFMRGB GL XLNKZIV MLGVH.

UOVRHXSSZFVI LYHVIEVW RM KZHHRMT GSZG XLMEVIHZGRLMH SV SZW SZW ZYLFG
MVGDLIPH SZEV YVTFM GL HRTMZO GSZG ULI EZIRLFH ULINH LU NVWRZ Z
WVGVINRMZGRLM NZB YV NZWV GSZG GSVIV RH Z YILDHV-JFZORGB RGVN, LI Z
WRHGIRYFGRLM-ZMW-ZXXVHH-JFZORGB RGVN GSZG NZB XLVCRHG RM HLNV HBHGVNH
DRGS Z SRTSVI JFZORGB ZIXSREZO RGVN GSZG DLFOW YV RMXLMEVMRVMG GL HVMW
GSILFTS GSV MVGDLIP YVXZFHV LU RGH HRAV.  UOVRHXSSZFVI IVUVIIVW, LU
XLFIHV, GL RNZTVH NLIV GSZM GL HVZIXSZYOV GVCG.

ZH ZN XLMHRWVIVW GSLHV JFVHGRLMH, HVEVIZO XLMXVKGFZO RHHFVH ZILHV:  LFTSG
ZN LXXZHRLMZOOB GL IVKILWFXV NZGVIRZOH VMGRIVOB GSILFTS ZM RNZTV HVG, ZG
LGSVI GRNVH, VMGRIVOB GSILFTS Z GVCG HVG, ZMW RM HLNV XZHVH, Z NRC?
GSVIV KILYZYOB DLFOW YV GRNVH DSVM GSV SRHGLIRXZO ZFGSVMGRXRGB LU ZM
ZIGRUZXG DLFOW IVJFRIV GSZG RGH RNZTV YV FHVW.  ZM RNZTV NRTSG YV
WVHRIZYOV ZH Z IVXLFIHV ULI FHVIH RU LMV XLFOW MLG KILERWV 100-KVIXVMG
ZXXFIZGV GVCG.  ZTZRM, ZN DLMWVIVW, ZH Z KIZXGRXZO NZGGVI, RU Z
WRHGRMXGRLM XLFOW YV WIZDM YVGDVVM IZIV KIRMGVW NZGGVI GSZG NRTSG VCRHG
RM NFOGRKOV XLOOVXGRLMH--GSZG RH, RM GVM LI URUGVVM ORYIZIRVH.  RM HFXS
XZHVH, GSV MVVW ULI KVIUVXG IVKILWFXGRLM DLFOW YV OVHH GSZM ULI FMRJFV
RGVNH.  RNKORXRG RM SRH IVNZIPH, UOVRHXSSZFVI XLMXVWVW, DZH GSV ZWNRHHRLM
GSZG ZN SZH YVVM GROGRMT HGILMTOB GLDZIWH JFZMGRGB ZMW WIZDRMT YZXP Z
ORGGOV UILN KVIUVXG JFZORGB.  GSZG RH, RG HVVNVW GL ZN GSZG HLXRVGB DLFOW
YV YVGGVI HVIEVW RU NLIV GSRMTH DVIV WRHGIRYFGVW YB OX--VEVM RU GSVB DVIV
MLG JFRGV KVIUVXG--GSZM RU UVDVI GSRMTH, KVIUVXGOB IVKIVHVMGVW, DVIV
WRHGIRYFGVW.  GSRH DZH HGZGVW ZH Z KILKLHRGRLM GL YV GVHGVW, DRGS
IVHKLMHVH GL YV TZGSVIVW UILN FHVIH.

RM GSRMPRMT ZYLFG RHHFVH IVOZGVW GL IVKILWFXGRLM LU NZGVIRZOH ZMW HVVRMT
LGSVI KVLKOV VMTZTVW RM KZIZOOVO ZXGRERGRVH, ZN WVVNVW RG FHVUFO GL
XLMEVMV Z XLMUVIVMXV.  SVMXV, GSV DLIPHSLK.  UOVRHXSSZFVI GSVIVFKLM
HFIEVBVW GSV HVEVIZO TILFKH IVKIVHVMGVW:  1) GSV DLIOW LU RNZTVH (RNZTV
FHVIH ZMW RNZTV NZPVIH); 2) GSV DLIOW LU GVCG ZMW HXSLOZIHSRK ZMW, DRGSRM
GSRH TILFK, GSLHV XLMXVIMVW DRGS OZMTFZTV--UOVRHXSSZFVI XLMUVHHVW GL URMWRMT
WVORTSGUFO RILMB RM GSV UZXG GSZG HLNV LU GSV NLHG ZWEZMXVW GSRMPVIH LM
XLNKFGVIRAVW GVCGH ZIV GSLHV WVZORMT DRGS ZMXRVMG TIVVP ZMW ILNZM NZGVIRZOH;
3) GSV MVGDLIP DLIOW; ZMW 4) GSV TVMVIZO DLIOW LU ORYIZIB HXRVMXV, DSRXS
RMXOFWVH KVLKOV RMGVIVHGVW RM KIVHVIEZGRLM ZMW XZGZOLTRMT.

UOVRHXSSZFVI XLMXOFWVW SRH IVNZIPH DRGS HKVXRZO GSZMPH GL GSV WZERW ZMW
OFXROV KZXPZIW ULFMWZGRLM ULI RGH HFKKLIG LU GSV NVVGRMT, GSV ZNVIRXZM
NVNLIB TILFK, GSV LUURXV ULI HXSLOZIOB KILTIZNH, GSV MZGRLMZO
WVNLMHGIZGRLM OZY, ZMW GSV LUURXV LU HKVXRZO VEVMGH.  SV VCKIVHHVW GSV
SLKV GSZG WZERW DLLWOVB KZXPZIW NRTSG YV ZYOV GL ZGGVMW, MLGRMT GSZG
KZXPZIW'H DLIP ZMW GSV DLIP LU GSV ULFMWZGRLM SZW HKLMHLIVW Z MFNYVI LU
KILQVXGH RM GSV GVCG ZIVZ.

                                 ******
