as or.  FLEISCHHAUER demonstrated both automatic stemming (which finds
other forms of the same root) and a truncated search.  One of Personal
Librarian's strongest features, the relevance ranking, was represented by
a chart that indicated how often words being sought appeared in
documents, with the one receiving the most "hits" obtaining the highest
score.  The "hit list" that is supplied takes the relevance ranking into
account, making the first hit, in effect, the one the software has
selected as the most relevant example.

While in the text of one of the broadside documents, FLEISCHHAUER
remarked AM's attempt to find ways to connect cataloging to the texts,
which it does in different ways in different manifestations.  In the case
shown, the cataloging was pasted on:  AM took MARC records that were
written as on-line records right into one of the Library's mainframe
retrieval programs, pulled them out, and handed them off to the contractor,
who massaged them somewhat to display them in the manner shown.  One of
AM's questions is, Does the cataloguing normally performed in the mainframe
work in this context, or had AM ought to think through adjustments?

FLEISCHHAUER made the additional point that, as far as the text goes, AM
has gravitated towards SGML (he pointed to the boldface in the upper part
of the screen).  Although extremely limited in its ability to translate
or interpret SGML, Personal Librarian will furnish both bold and italics
on screen; a fairly easy thing to do, but it is one of the ways in which
SGML is useful.

Striking a balance between quantity and quality has been a major concern
of AM, with accuracy being one of the places where project staff have
felt that less than 100-percent accuracy was not unacceptable.
FLEISCHHAUER cited the example of the standard of the rekeying industry,
namely 99.95 percent; as one service bureau informed him, to go from
99.95 to 100 percent would double the cost.

FLEISCHHAUER next demonstrated how AM furnishes users recourse to images,
and at the same time recalled LESK's pointed question concerning the
number of people who would look at those images and the number who would
work only with the text.  If the implication of LESK's question was
sound, FLEISCHHAUER said, it raised the stakes for text accuracy and
reduced the value of the strategy for images.

Contending that preservation is always a bugaboo, FLEISCHHAUER
demonstrated several images derived from a scan of a preservation
microfilm that AM had made.  He awarded a grade of C at best, perhaps a
C minus or a C plus, for how well it worked out.  Indeed, the matter of
learning if other people had better ideas about scanning in general, and,
in particular, scanning from microfilm, was one of the factors that drove
AM to attempt to think through the agenda for the Workshop.  Skew, for
example, was one of the issues that AM in its ignorance had not reckoned
would prove so difficult.

Further, the handling of images of the sort shown, in a desktop computer
environment, involved a considerable amount of zooming and scrolling.
Ultimately, AM staff feel that perhaps the paper copy that is printed out
might be the most useful one, but they remain uncertain as to how much
on-screen reading users will do.

Returning to the text, FLEISCHHAUER asked viewers to imagine a person who
might be conducting a search in a full-text environment.  With this
scenario, he proceeded to illustrate other features of Personal Librarian
that he considered helpful; for example, it provides the ability to
notice words as one reads.  Clicking the "include" button on the bottom
of the search window pops the words that have been highlighted into the
search.  Thus, a user can refine the search as he or she reads,
re-executing the search and continuing to find things in the quest for
materials.  This software not only contains relevance ranking, Boolean
operators, and truncation, it also permits one to perform word algebra,
so to say, where one puts two or three words in parentheses and links
them with one Boolean operator and then a couple of words in another set
of parentheses and asks for things within so many words of others.

Until they became acquainted recently with some of the work being done in
classics, the AM staff had not realized that a large number of the
projects that involve electronic texts were being done by people with a
profound interest in language and linguistics.  Their search strategies
and thinking are oriented to those fields, as is shown in particular by
the Perseus example.  As amateur historians, the AM staff were thinking
more of searching for concepts and ideas than for particular words.
Obviously, FLEISCHHAUER conceded, searching for concepts and ideas and
searching for words may be two rather closely related things.

While displaying several images, FLEISCHHAUER observed that the Macintosh
prototype built by AM contains a greater diversity of formats.  Echoing a
previous speaker, he said that it was easier to stitch things together in
the Macintosh, though it tended to be a little more anemic in search and
retrieval.  AM, therefore, increasingly has been investigating
sophisticated retrieval engines in the IBM format.

FLEISCHHAUER demonstrated several additional examples of the prototype
interfaces:  One was AM's metaphor for the network future, in which a
kind of reading-room graphic suggests how one would be able to go around
to different materials.  AM contains a large number of photographs in
analog video form worked up from a videodisc, which enable users to make
copies to print or incorporate in digital documents.  A frame-grabber is
built into the system, making it possible to bring an image into a window
and digitize or print it out.

FLEISCHHAUER next demonstrated sound recording, which included texts.
Recycled from a previous project, the collection included sixty 78-rpm
phonograph records of political speeches that were made during and
immediately after World War I.  These constituted approximately three
hours of audio, as AM has digitized it, which occupy 150 megabytes on a
CD.  Thus, they are considerably compressed.  From the catalogue card,
FLEISCHHAUER proceeded to a transcript of a speech with the audio
available and with highlighted text following it as it played.
A photograph has been added and a transcription made.

Considerable value has been added beyond what the Library of Congress
normally would do in cataloguing a sound recording, which raises several
questions for AM concerning where to draw lines about how much value it can
afford to add and at what point, perhaps, this becomes more than AM could
reasonably do or reasonably wish to do.  FLEISCHHAUER also demonstrated
a motion picture.  As FREEMAN had reported earlier, the motion picture
materials have proved the most popular, not surprisingly.  This says more
about the medium, he thought, than about AM's presentation of it.

Because AM's goal was to bring together things that could be used by
historians or by people who were curious about history,
turn-of-the-century footage seemed to represent the most appropriate
collections from the Library of Congress in motion pictures. These were
the very first films made by Thomas Edison's company and some others at
that time.  The particular example illustrated was a Biograph film,
brought in with a frame-grabber into a window.  A single videodisc
contains about fifty titles and pieces of film from that period, all of
New York City.  Taken together, AM believes, they provide an interesting
documentary resource.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Using the frame-grabber in AM * Volume of material processed
and to be processed * Purpose of AM within LC * Cataloguing and the
nature of AM's material * SGML coding and the question of quality versus
quantity *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

WFIRMT GSV JFVHGRLM-ZMW-ZMHDVI KVIRLW GSZG ULOOLDVW UOVRHXSSZFVI'H
KIVHVMGZGRLM, HVEVIZO XOZIRURXZGRLMH DVIV NZWV.

ZN RH YIRMTRMT RM NLGRLM KRXGFIVH UILN Z ERWVLWRHX.  GSV UIZNV-TIZYYVI
WVERXVH XIVZGV Z DRMWLD LM Z XLNKFGVI HXIVVM, DSRXS KVINRGH FHVIH GL
WRTRGRAV Z HRMTOV UIZNV LU GSV NLERV LI LMV LU GSV KSLGLTIZKSH.  RG
KILWFXVH Z XIFWV, ILFTS-ZMW-IVZWB RNZTV GSZG SRTS HXSLLO HGFWVMGH XZM
RMXLIKLIZGV RMGL KZKVIH, ZMW GSZG SZH DLIPVW EVIB MRXVOB RM GSRH DZB.

XLNNVMGRMT LM UOVRHXSSZFVI'H ZHHVIGRLM GSZG ZN DZH OLLPRMT NLIV ZG
HVZIXSRMT RWVZH GSZM DLIWH, NBOLMZH ZITFVW GSZG DRGSLFG DLIWH ZM RWVZ
WLVH MLG VCRHG.  UOVRHXSSZFVI XLMXVWVW GSZG SV LFTSG GL SZEV ZIGRXFOZGVW
SRH KLRMG NLIV XOVZIOB.  NBOLMZH HGZGVW GSZG GSVB DVIV RM UZXG YLGS
GZOPRMT ZYLFG GSV HZNV GSRMT.  YB HVZIXSRMT ULI DLIWH ZMW YB ULIXRMT
KVLKOV GL ULXFH LM GSV DLIW, GSV KVIHVFH KILQVXG UVOG GSZG GSVB DLFOW TVG
GSVN GL GSV RWVZ.  GSV DZB LMV IVERVDH IVHFOGH RH GZROLIVW NLIV GL LMV
PRMW LU FHVI GSZM ZMLGSVI.

XLMXVIMRMT GSV GLGZO ELOFNV LU NZGVIRZO GSZG SZH YVVM KILXVHHVW RM GSRH
DZB, ZN ZG GSRH KLRMG SZH RM IVGIRVEZYOV ULIN HVEVM LI VRTSG XLOOVXGRLMH,
ZOO LU GSVN KSLGLTIZKSRX.  RM GSV NZXRMGLHS VMERILMNVMG, ULI VCZNKOV,
GSVIV KILYZYOB ZIV 35,000-40,000 KSLGLTIZKSH.  GSV HLFMW IVXLIWRMTH
MFNYVI HRCGB RGVNH.  GSV YILZWHRWVH MFNYVI ZYLFG 300 RGVNH.  GSVIV ZIV
500 KLORGRXZO XZIGLLMH RM GSV ULIN LU WIZDRMTH.  GSV NLGRLM KRXGFIVH, ZH
RMWRERWFZO RGVNH, MFNYVI HRCGB GL HVEVMGB.

ZN ZOHL SZH Z NZMFHXIRKG XLOOVXGRLM, GSV ORUV SRHGLIB KLIGRLM LU LMV LU
GSV UVWVIZO KILQVXG HVIRVH, DSRXS DROO XLMGZRM 2,900 RMWRERWFZO
WLXFNVMGH, ZOO URIHG-KVIHLM MZIIZGREVH.  ZN SZH RM KILXVHH ZYLFG 350
ZUIRXZM-ZNVIRXZM KZNKSOVGH, LI ZYLFG 12,000 KIRMGVW KZTVH ULI GSV KVIRLW
1870-1910.  ZOHL RM GSV DLIPH ZIV HLNV 4,000 KZMLIZNRX KSLGLTIZKSH.  ZN
SZH IVXBXOVW Z UZRI ZNLFMG LU GSV DLIP WLMV YB OX'H KIRMGH ZMW
KSLGLTIZKSH WRERHRLM WFIRMT GSV ORYIZIB'H LKGRXZO WRHP KROLG KILQVXG RM
GSV 1980H.  ULI VCZNKOV, Z HKVXRZO WRERHRLM LU OX SZH GLLOVW FK ZMW
GSLFTSG GSILFTS ZOO GSV IZNRURXZGRLMH LU VOVXGILMRX KIVHVMGZGRLM LU
KSLGLTIZKSH.  RMWVVW, GSVB ZIV DSVVORMT GSVN LFG RM TIVZG YZIIVO OLZWH.
GSV KFIKLHV LU ZN DRGSRM GSV ORYIZIB, RG RH SLKVW, RH GL XZGZOBAV HVEVIZO
LU GSV LGSVI HKVXRZO XLOOVXGRLM WRERHRLMH DSRXS SZEV ML KZIGRXFOZI
VCKVIRVMXV DRGS, RM HLNV XZHVH, NRCVW UVVORMTH ZYLFG, ZM ZXGRERGB HFXS ZH
ZN.  NLIVLEVI, RM NZMB XZHVH GSV WRERHRLMH NZB YV XSZIZXGVIRAVW ZH MLG
LMOB OZXPRMT VCKVIRVMXV RM "VOVXGILMRUBRMT" GSRMTH YFG ZOHL RM ZFGLNZGVW
XZGZOLTFRMT.  NZIX XZGZOLTFRMT ZH KIZXGRXVW RM GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH RH
SVZEROB DVRTSGVW GLDZIW GSV WVHXIRKGRLM LU NLMLTIZKS ZMW HVIRZO
NZGVIRZOH, YFG RH NFXS GSRMMVI DSVM LMV VMGVIH GSV DLIOW LU NZMFHXIRKGH
ZMW GSRMTH GSZG ZIV SVOW RM GSV ORYIZIB'H NFHRX XLOOVXGRLM ZMW LGSVI
FMRGH.  RM IVHKLMHV GL Z XLNNVMG YB OVHP, GSZG ZN'H NZGVIRZO RH EVIB
SVZEROB KSLGLTIZKSRX, ZMW RH HL KIRNZIROB YVXZFHV RMWRERWFZO IVXLIWH SZEV
YVVM NZWV ULI VZXS KSLGLTIZKS, UOVRHXSSZFVI LYHVIEVW GSZG ZM RGVN-OVEVO
XZGZOLT IVXLIW VCRHGH, ULI VCZNKOV, ULI VZXS KSLGLTIZKS RM GSV WVGILRG
KFYORHSRMT XLOOVXGRLM LU 25,000 KRXGFIVH.  RM GSV XZHV LU GSV UVWVIZO
DIRGVIH KILQVXG, ULI DSRXS MVZIOB 3,000 WLXFNVMGH VCRHG, IVKIVHVMGRMT
RMULINZGRLM UILN GDVMGB-HRC WRUUVIVMG HGZGVH, ZN DRGS GSV ZHHRHGZMXV LU
PZIVM HGFZIG LU GSV NZMFHXIRKG WRERHRLM DROO ZGGVNKG GL URMW HLNV DZB MLG
LMOB GL SZEV Z XLOOVXGRLM-OVEVO IVXLIW YFG KVISZKH Z NZIX IVXLIW ULI VZXS
HGZGV, DSRXS DROO GSVM HVIEV ZH ZM FNYIVOOZ ULI GSV 100-200 WLXFNVMGH
GSZG XLNV FMWVI RG.  YFG GSZG WIZNZ IVNZRMH GL YV VMZXGVW.  GSV ZN HGZUU
RH XLMHVIEZGREV ZMW XORMTH GL XZGZOLTFRMT, GSLFTS LU XLFIHV ERHRGLIH GLFG
ZIGRURXRZO RMGVOORTVMXV ZMW MVFIZO MVGDLIPH RM Z NZMMVI GSZG HFTTVHGH GSZG
KVISZKH LMV MVVW MLG SZEV XZGZOLTFRMT LI GSZG NFXS LU RG XLFOW YV KFG ZHRWV.

GSV NZGGVI LU HTNO XLWRMT, UOVRHXSSZFVI XLMXVWVW, IVGFIMVW GSV WRHXFHHRLM
GL GSV VZIORVI GIVZGVW JFVHGRLM LU JFZORGB EVIHFH JFZMGRGB RM GSV ORYIZIB
LU XLMTIVHH.  LU XLFIHV, GVCG XLMEVIHRLM XZM YV WLMV DRGS 100-KVIXVMG
ZXXFIZXB, YFG RG NVZMH GSZG DSVM LMV'H SLOWRMTH ZIV ZH EZHG ZH OX'H LMOB
Z GRMB ZNLFMG DROO YV VCKLHVW, DSVIVZH KVINRGGRMT OLDVI OVEVOH LU
ZXXFIZXB XZM OVZW GL VCKLHRMT LI HSZIRMT OZITVI ZNLFMGH, YFG DRGS GSV
JFZORGB XLIIVHKLMWRMTOB RNKZRIVW.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
GDLSRT * Z XLMGIZIB VCKVIRVMXV XLMXVIMRMT VOVXGILMRX LKGRLMH * ELOFNV LU
NZGVIRZO RM GSV DZHSRMTGLM KZKVIH ZMW Z HFTTVHGRLM LU WZERW KZXPZIW *
RNKORXZGRLMH LU KZXPZIW'H HFTTVHGRLM * GIZMHXIRYRMT GSV WLXFNVMGH ULI GSV
XW-ILN * ZXXFIZXB LU GIZMHXIRKGRLMH * GSV XW-ILN VWRGRLM LU GSV ULFMWRMT
UZGSVIH WLXFNVMGH *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

URMWRMT VMXLFIZTVNVMG RM Z XLNNVMG LU NRXSVOHLM'H UILN GSV NLIMRMT
HVHHRLM--GSZG MFNVILFH KVLKOV RM GSV SFNZMRGRVH DVIV XSLLHRMT VOVXGILMRX
LKGRLMH GL WL GSVRI DLIP--WLILGSB GDLSRT, VWRGLI, GSV KZKVIH LU TVLITV
DZHSRMTGLM, LKVMVW SVI ROOFHGIZGVW GZOP YB MLGRMT GSZG SVI VCKVIRVMXV
DRGS ORGVIZIB HXSLOZIH ZMW MFNVILFH KVLKOV RM VWRGRMT DZH XLMGIZIB GL
NRXSVOHLM'H.  GDLSRT VNKSZHRAVW ORGVIZIB HXSLOZIH' XLNKOVGV RTMLIZMXV LU
GSV GVXSMLOLTRXZO LKGRLMH ZEZROZYOV GL GSVN LI GSVRI IVOFXGZMXV LI, RM
HLNV XZHVH, GSVRI WLDMIRTSG SLHGRORGB GLDZIW GSVHV LKGRLMH.

ZUGVI KILERWRMT ZM LEVIERVD LU GSV UREV ULFMWRMT UZGSVIH KILQVXGH
(QVUUVIHLM ZG KIRMXVGLM, UIZMPORM ZG BZOV, QLSM ZWZNH ZG GSV
NZHHZXSFHVGGH SRHGLIRXZO HLXRVGB, ZMW NZWRHLM WLDM GSV SZOO UILN SVI ZG
GSV FMREVIHRGB LU ERITRMRZ), GDLSRT LYHVIEVW GSZG GSV DZHSRMTGLM KZKVIH,
ORPV ZOO LU GSV KILQVXGH, RMXOFWV YLGS HRWVH LU GSV DZHSRMTGLM
XLIIVHKLMWVMXV ZMW WVZO DRGS HLNV 135,000 WLXFNVMGH GL YV KFYORHSVW DRGS
VCGVMHREV ZMMLGZGRLM RM VRTSGB GL VRTSGB-UREV ELOFNVH, Z KILQVXG GSZG
DROO MLG YV XLNKOVGVW FMGRO DVOO RMGL GSV MVCG XVMGFIB.  GSFH, RG DZH
DRGS XLMHRWVIZYOV VMGSFHRZHN HVEVIZO BVZIH ZTL GSZG GSV DZHSRMTGLM KZKVIH
KILQVXG (DKK) TIVVGVW WZERW KZXPZIW'H HFTTVHGRLM GSZG GSV KZKVIH LU GSV
ULFMWRMT UZGSVIH XLFOW YV KFYORHSVW VZHROB ZMW RMVCKVMHREVOB, ZMW GL GSV
TIVZG YVMVURG LU ZNVIRXZM HXSLOZIHSRK, ERZ XW-ILN.

RM KIZTNZGRX GVINH, UFMWRMT UILN GSV KZXPZIW ULFMWZGRLM DLFOW VCKVWRGV
GSV GIZMHXIRKGRLM LU GSLFHZMWH LU WLXFNVMGH DZRGRMT GL YV KFG LM WRHP RM
GSV DKK LUURXVH.  UFIGSVI, HRMXV GSV XLHGH LU XLOOVXGRMT, VWRGRMT, ZMW
XLMEVIGRMT GSV ULFMWRMT UZGSVIH WLXFNVMGH RMGL OVGGVIKIVHH VWRGRLMH DVIV
