current interest in developing large bodies of text in computer-readable
form in order to study the language.  Several projects are engaged in
compiling, for example, 100 million words. HOCKEY described one with
which she was associated briefly at Oxford University involving
compilation of 100 million words of British English:  about 10 percent of
that will contain detailed linguistic tagging encoded in SGML; it will
have word class taggings, with words identified as nouns, verbs,
adjectives, or other parts of speech.  This tagging can then be used by
programs which will begin to learn a bit more about the structure of the
language, and then, can go to tag more text.

HOCKEY said that the more that is tagged accurately, the more one can
refine the tagging process and thus the bigger body of text one can build
up with linguistic tagging incorporated into it.  Hence, the more tagging
or annotation there is in the text, the more one may begin to learn about
language and the more it will help accomplish more intelligent OCR.  She
recommended the development of software tools that will help one begin to
understand more about a text, which can then be applied to scanning
images of that text in that format and to using more intelligence to help
one interpret or understand the text.

HOCKEY posited the need to think about common methods of text-encoding
for a long time to come, because building these large bodies of text is
extremely expensive and will only be done once.

In the more general discussion on approaches to encoding that followed,
these points were made:

BESSER identified the underlying problem with standards that all have to
struggle with in adopting a standard, namely, the tension between a very
highly defined standard that is very interchangeable but does not work
for everyone because something is lacking, and a standard that is less
defined, more open, more adaptable, but less interchangeable.  Contending
that the way in which people use SGML is not sufficiently defined, BESSER
wondered 1) if people resist the TEI because they think it is too defined
in certain things they do not fit into, and 2) how progress with
interchangeability can be made without frightening people away.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN replied that the published drafts of the TEI had met
with surprisingly little objection on the grounds that they do not allow
one to handle X or Y or Z.  Particular concerns of the affiliated
projects have led, in practice, to discussions of how extensions are to
be made; the primary concern of any project has to be how it can be
represented locally, thus making interchange secondary.  The TEI has
received much criticism based on the notion that everything in it is
required or even recommended, which, as it happens, is a misconception
from the beginning,   because none of it is required and very little is
actually actively recommended for all cases, except that one document
one's source.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN agreed with BESSER about this trade-off:  all the
projects in a set of twenty TEI-conformant projects will not necessarily
tag the material in the same way.  One result of the TEI will be that the
easiest problems will be solved--those dealing with the external form of
the information; but the problem that is hardest in interchange is that
one is not encoding what another wants, and vice versa.  Thus, after
the adoption of a common notation, the differences in the underlying
conceptions of what is interesting about texts become more visible.
The success of a standard like the TEI will lie in the ability of
the recipient of interchanged texts to use some of what it contains
and to add the information that was not encoded that one wants, in a
layered way, so that texts can be gradually enriched and one does not
have to put in everything all at once.  Hence, having a well-behaved
markup scheme is important.

STEVENS followed up on the paradoxical analogy that BESSER alluded to in
the example of the MARC records, namely, the formats that are the same
except that they are different.  STEVENS drew a parallel between
document-type definitions and MARC records for books and serials and maps,
where one has a tagging structure and there is a text-interchange.
STEVENS opined that the producers of the information will set the terms
for the standard (i.e., develop document-type definitions for the users
of their products), creating a situation that will be problematical for
an institution like the Library of Congress, which will have to deal with
the DTDs in the event that a multiplicity of them develops.  Thus,
numerous people are seeking a standard but cannot find the tag set that
will be acceptable to them and their clients.  SPERBERG-McQUEEN agreed
with this view, and said that the situation was in a way worse:  attempting
to unify arbitrary DTDs resembled attempting to unify a MARC record with a
bibliographic record done according to the Prussian instructions.
According to STEVENS, this situation occurred very early in the process.

WATERS recalled from early discussions on Project Open Book the concern
of many people that merely by producing images, POB was not really
enhancing intellectual access to the material.  Nevertheless, not wishing
to overemphasize the opposition between imaging and full text, WATERS
stated that POB views getting the images as a first step toward possibly
converting to full text through character recognition, if the technology
is appropriate.  WATERS also emphasized that encoding is involved even
with a set of images.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN agreed with WATERS that one can create an SGML document
consisting wholly of images.  At first sight, organizing graphic images
with an SGML document may not seem to offer great advantages, but the
advantages of the scheme WATERS described would be precisely that
ability to move into something that is more of a multimedia document:
a combination of transcribed text and page images.  WEIBEL concurred in
this judgment, offering evidence from Project ADAPT, where a page is
divided into text elements and graphic elements, and in fact the text
elements are organized by columns and lines.  These lines may be used as
the basis for distributing documents in a network environment.  As one
develops software intelligent enough to recognize what those elements
are, it makes sense to apply SGML to an image initially, that may, in
fact, ultimately become more and more text, either through OCR or edited
OCR or even just through keying.  For WATERS, the labor of composing the
document and saying this set of documents or this set of images belongs
to this document constitutes a significant investment.

WEIBEL also made the point that the AAP tag sets, while not excessively
prescriptive, offer a common starting point; they do not define the
structure of the documents, though.  They have some recommendations about
DTDs one could use as examples, but they do just suggest tag sets.   For
example, the CORE project attempts to use the AAP markup as much as
possible, but there are clearly areas where structure must be added.
That in no way contradicts the use of AAP tag sets.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN noted that the TEI prepared a long working paper early
on about the AAP tag set and what it lacked that the TEI thought it
needed, and a fairly long critique of the naming conventions, which has
led to a very different style of naming in the TEI.  He stressed the
importance of the opposition between prescriptive markup, the kind that a
publisher or anybody can do when producing documents de novo, and
descriptive markup, in which one has to take what the text carrier
provides.  In these particular tag sets it is easy to overemphasize this
opposition, because the AAP tag set is extremely flexible.  Even if one
just used the DTDs, they allow almost anything to appear almost anywhere.

                                 ******

SESSION VI.  COPYRIGHT ISSUES

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
PETERS * Several cautions concerning copyright in an electronic
environment * Review of copyright law in the United States * The notion
of the public good and the desirability of incentives to promote it *
What copyright protects * Works not protected by copyright * The rights
of copyright holders * Publishers' concerns in today's electronic
environment * Compulsory licenses * The price of copyright in a digital
medium and the need for cooperation * Additional clarifications *  Rough
justice oftentimes the outcome in numerous copyright matters * Copyright
in an electronic society * Copyright law always only sets up the
boundaries; anything can be changed by contract *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Marybeth PETERS, policy planning adviser to the Register of Copyrights,
Library of Congress,   made several general comments and then opened the
floor to discussion of subjects of interest to the audience.

Having attended several sessions in an effort to gain a sense of what
people did and where copyright would affect their lives, PETERS expressed
the following cautions:

     * If one takes and converts materials and puts them in new forms,
     then, from a copyright point of view, one is creating something and
     will receive some rights.

     * However, if what one is converting already exists, a question
     immediately arises about the status of the materials in question.

     * Putting something in the public domain in the United States offers
     some freedom from anxiety, but distributing it throughout the world
     on a network is another matter, even if one has put it in the public
     domain in the United States.  Re foreign laws, very frequently a
     work can be in the public domain in the United States but protected
     in other countries.  Thus, one must consider all of the places a
     work may reach, lest one unwittingly become liable to being faced
     with a suit for copyright infringement, or at least a letter
     demanding discussion of what one is doing.

PETERS reviewed copyright law in the United States.  The U.S.
Constitution effectively states that Congress has the power to enact
copyright laws for two purposes:  1) to encourage the creation and
dissemination of intellectual works for the good of society as a whole;
and, significantly, 2) to give creators and those who package and
disseminate materials the economic rewards that are due them.

Congress strives to strike a balance, which at times can become an
emotional issue.  The United States has never accepted the notion of the
natural right of an author so much as it has accepted the notion of the
public good and the desirability of incentives to promote it.  This state
of affairs, however, has created strains on the international level and
is the reason for several of the differences in the laws that we have.
Today the United States protects almost every kind of work that can be
called an expression of an author.  The standard for gaining copyright
protection is simply originality.  This is a low standard and means that
a work is not copied from something else, as well as shows a certain
minimal amount of authorship.  One can also acquire copyright protection
for making a new version of preexisting material, provided it manifests
some spark of creativity.

However, copyright does not protect ideas, methods, systems--only the way
that one expresses those things.  Nor does copyright protect anything
that is mechanical, anything that does not involve choice, or criteria
concerning whether or not one should do a thing.  For example, the
results of a process called declicking, in which one mechanically removes
impure sounds from old recordings, are not copyrightable.  On the other
hand, the choice to record a song digitally and to increase the sound of
violins or to bring up the tympani constitutes the results of conversion
that are copyrightable.  Moreover, if a work is protected by copyright in
the United States, one generally needs the permission of the copyright
owner to convert it.  Normally, who will own the new--that is, converted-
-material is a matter of contract.  In the absence of a contract, the
person who creates the new material is the author and owner.  But people
do not generally think about the copyright implications until after the
fact.  PETERS stressed the need when dealing with copyrighted works to
think about copyright in advance.  One's bargaining power is much greater
up front than it is down the road.

PETERS next discussed works not protected by copyright, for example, any
work done by a federal employee as part of his or her official duties is
in the public domain in the United States.  The issue is not wholly free
of doubt concerning whether or not the work is in the public domain
outside the United States.  Other materials in the public domain include:
any works published more than seventy-five years ago, and any work
published in the United States more than twenty-eight years ago, whose
copyright was not renewed.  In talking about the new technology and
putting material in a digital form to send all over the world, PETERS
cautioned, one must keep in mind that while the rights may not be an
issue in the United States, they may be in different parts of the world,
where most countries previously employed a copyright term of the life of
the author plus fifty years.

PETERS next reviewed the economics of copyright holding.  Simply,
economic rights are the rights to control the reproduction of a work in
any form.  They belong to the author, or in the case of a work made for
hire, the employer.  The second right, which is critical to conversion,
is the right to change a work.  The right to make new versions is perhaps
one of the most significant rights of authors, particularly in an
electronic world.  The third right is the right to publish the work and
the right to disseminate it, something that everyone who deals in an
electronic medium needs to know.  The basic rule is if a copy is sold,
all rights of distribution are extinguished with the sale of that copy.
The key is that it must be sold.  A number of companies overcome this
obstacle by leasing or renting their product.  These companies argue that
if the material is rented or leased and not sold, they control the uses
of a work.  The fourth right, and one very important in a digital world,
is a right of public performance, which means the right to show the work
sequentially.  For example, copyright owners control the showing of a
CD-ROM product in a public place such as a public library.  The reverse
side of public performance is something called the right of public
display.  Moral rights also exist, which at the federal level apply only
to very limited visual works of art, but in theory may apply under
contract and other principles.  Moral rights may include the right of an
author to have his or her name on a work, the right of attribution, and
the right to object to distortion or mutilation--the right of integrity.

The way copyright law is worded gives much latitude to activities such as
preservation; to use of material for scholarly and research purposes when
the user does not make multiple copies; and to the generation of
facsimile copies of unpublished works by libraries for themselves and
other libraries.  But the law does not allow anyone to become the
distributor of the product for the entire world.  In today's electronic
environment, publishers are extremely concerned that the entire world is
networked and can obtain the information desired from a single copy in a
single library.  Hence, if there is to be only one sale, which publishers
may choose to live with, they will obtain their money in other ways, for
example, from access and use.  Hence, the development of site licenses
and other kinds of agreements to cover what publishers believe they
should be compensated for.  Any solution that the United States takes
today has to consider the international arena.

Noting that the United States is a member of the Berne Convention and
subscribes to its provisions, PETERS described the permissions process.
She also defined compulsory licenses.  A compulsory license, of which the
United States has had a few, builds into the law the right to use a work
subject to certain terms and conditions.  In the international arena,
however, the ability to use compulsory licenses is extremely limited.
Thus, clearinghouses and other collectives comprise one option that has
succeeded in providing for use of a work.  Often overlooked when one
begins to use copyrighted material and put products together is how
expensive the permissions process and managing it is.  According to
PETERS, the price of copyright in a digital medium, whatever solution is
worked out, will include managing and assembling the database.  She
strongly recommended that publishers and librarians or people with
various backgrounds cooperate to work out administratively feasible
systems, in order to produce better results.

In the lengthy question-and-answer period that followed PETERS's
presentation, the following points emerged:

     * The Copyright Office maintains that anything mechanical and
     totally exhaustive probably is not protected.  In the event that
     what an individual did in developing potentially copyrightable
     material is not understood, the Copyright Office will ask about the
     creative choices the applicant chose to make or not to make.  As a
     practical matter, if one believes she or he has made enough of those
     choices, that person has a right to assert a copyright and someone
     else must assert that the work is not copyrightable.  The more
     mechanical, the more automatic, a thing is, the less likely it is to
     be copyrightable.

     * Nearly all photographs are deemed to be copyrightable, but no one
     worries about them much, because everyone is free to take the same
     image.  Thus, a photographic copyright represents what is called a
     "thin" copyright.  The photograph itself must be duplicated, in
     order for copyright to be violated.

     * The Copyright Office takes the position that X-rays are not
     copyrightable because they are mechanical.  It  can be argued
     whether or not image enhancement in scanning can be protected.  One
     must exercise care with material created with public funds and
     generally in the public domain.  An article written by a federal
     employee, if written as part of official duties, is not
     copyrightable.  However, control over a scientific article written
     by a National Institutes of Health grantee (i.e., someone who
     receives money from the U.S. government), depends on NIH policy.  If
     the government agency has no policy (and that policy can be
     contained in its regulations, the contract, or the grant), the
     author retains copyright.  If a provision LU GSV XLMGIZXG, TIZMG, LI
     IVTFOZGRLM HGZGVH GSZG GSVIV DROO YV ML XLKBIRTSG, GSVM RG WLVH MLG
     VCRHG.  DSVM Z DLIP RH XIVZGVW, XLKBIRTSG ZFGLNZGRXZOOB XLNVH RMGL
     VCRHGVMXV FMOVHH HLNVGSRMT VCRHGH GSZG HZBH RG WLVH MLG.

     * ZM VMSZMXVW VOVXGILMRX XLKB LU Z KIRMG XLKB LU ZM LOWVI IVUVIVMXV
     DLIP RM GSV KFYORX WLNZRM GSZG WLVH MLG XLMGZRM XLKBIRTSGZYOV MVD
     NZGVIRZO RH Z KFIVOB NVXSZMRXZO IVMWRGRLM LU GSV LIRTRMZO DLIP, ZMW
     RH MLG XLKBIRTSGZYOV.

     * FHFZOOB, DSVM Z DLIP VMGVIH GSV KFYORX WLNZRM, MLGSRMT XZM IVNLEV
     RG.  ULI VCZNKOV, XLMTIVHH IVXVMGOB KZHHVW RMGL OZD GSV XLMXVKG LU
     ZFGLNZGRX IVMVDZO, DSRXS NVZMH GSZG XLKBIRTSG LM ZMB DLIP KFYORHSVW
     YVGDVVM O964 ZMW O978 WLVH MLG SZEV GL YV IVMVDVW RM LIWVI GL
     IVXVREV Z HVEVMGB-UREV-BVZI GVIN.  YFG ZMB DLIP MLG IVMVDVW YVULIV
     1964 RH RM GSV KFYORX WLNZRM.

     * XLMXVIMRMT DSVGSVI LI MLG GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH PVVKH GIZXP LU DSVM
     ZFGSLIH WRV, MLGSRMT DZH VEVI WLMV, MLI RH ZMBGSRMT YVRMT WLMV ZG
     GSV NLNVMG YB GSV XLKBIRTSG LUURXV.

     * HLUGDZIV GSZG WIREVH Z NVXSZMRXZO KILXVHH RH RGHVOU XLKBIRTSGZYOV.
     RU LMV XSZMTVH KOZGULINH, GSV HLUGDZIV RGHVOU SZH Z XLKBIRTSG.  GSV
     DLIOW RMGVOOVXGFZO KILKVIGB LITZMRAZGRLM DROO SLOW Z HBNKLHRFN 28
     NZIXS GSILFTS 2 ZKIRO O993, ZG SZIEZIW FMREVIHRGB, LM WRTRGZO
     GVXSMLOLTB, ZMW DROO HGFWB GSRH VMGRIV RHHFV.  RU LMV KFIXSZHVH Z
     XLNKFGVI HLUGDZIV KZXPZTV, HFXS ZH NZXKZRMG, ZMW XIVZGVH HLNVGSRMT
     MVD, LMV IVXVREVH KILGVXGRLM LMOB ULI GSZG DSRXS SZH YVVM ZWWVW.

KVGVIH ZWWVW GSZG LUGVM RM XLKBIRTSG NZGGVIH, ILFTS QFHGRXV RH GSV
LFGXLNV, ULI VCZNKOV, RM XLOOVXGREV ORXVMHRMT, ZHXZK (R.V., ZNVIRXZM
HLXRVGB LU XLNKLHVIH, ZFGSLIH, ZMW KFYORHSVIH), ZMW YNR (R.V., YILZWXZHG
NFHRX, RMX.), DSVIV RG NZB HVVN GSZG GSV YRT TFBH IVXVREV NLIV GSZM GSVRI
WFV.  LU XLFIHV, KVLKOV LFTSG MLG GL XLKB Z XIVZGREV KILWFXG DRGSLFG
KZBRMT ULI RG; GSVIV HSLFOW YV HLNV XLNKVMHZGRLM.  YFG GSV GIFGS LU GSV
DLIOW, ZMW RG RH MLG Z TIVZG GIFGS, RH GSZG GSV YRT TFB TVGH KOZBVW LM
GSV IZWRL NLIV UIVJFVMGOB GSZM GSV ORGGOV TFB, DSL SZH GL WL NFXS NLIV
FMGRO SV YVXLNVH Z YRT TFB.  GSZG RH GIFV LU VEVIB ZFGSLI, VEVIB
XLNKLHVI, VEVIBLMV, ZMW, FMULIGFMZGVOB, RH KZIG LU ORUV.

XLKBIRTSG ZODZBH LIRTRMZGVH DRGS GSV ZFGSLI, VCXVKG RM XZHVH LU DLIPH
NZWV ULI SRIV.  (NLHG HLUGDZIV UZOOH RMGL GSRH XZGVTLIB.)  DSVM ZM ZFGSLI
HVMWH SRH ZIGRXOV GL Z QLFIMZO, SV SZH MLG IVORMJFRHSVW XLKBIRTSG, GSLFTS
SV IVGZRMH GSV IRTSG GL IVORMJFRHS RG.  GSV ZFGSLI IVXVREVH ZYHLOFGVOB
VEVIBGSRMT.  GSV OVHH KILNRMVMG GSV ZFGSLI, GSV NLIV OVEVIZTV GSV
KFYORHSVI DROO SZEV RM XLMGIZXG MVTLGRZGRLMH.  RM LIWVI GL GIZMHUVI GSV
IRTSGH, GSV ZFGSLI NFHG HRTM ZM ZTIVVNVMG TRERMT GSVN ZDZB.

RM ZM VOVXGILMRX HLXRVGB, RG RH RNKLIGZMG GL YV ZYOV GL ORXVMHV Z DIRGVI
ZMW DLIP LFG WVZOH.  DRGS IVTZIW GL FHV LU Z DLIP, RG FHFZOOB RH NFXS
VZHRVI DSVM Z KFYORHSVI SLOWH GSV IRTSGH.  RM ZM VOVXGILMRX VIZ, Z IVZO
KILYOVN ZIRHVH DSVM LMV RH WRTRGRARMT ZMW NZPRMT RMULINZGRLM ZEZROZYOV.
KVGVIH IVUVIIVW ZTZRM GL VOVXGILMRX ORXVMHRMT XOVZIRMTSLFHVH.  XLKBIRTSG
LFTSG GL IVNZRM DRGS GSV ZFGSLI, YFG ZH LMV NLEVH ULIDZIW TOLYZOOB RM GSV
VOVXGILMRX ZIVMZ, Z NRWWOVNZM DSL XZM SZMWOV GSV EZIRLFH IRTSGH YVXLNVH
RMXIVZHRMTOB MVXVHHZIB.

GSV MLGRLM LU XLKBIRTSG OZD RH GSZG RG IVHRWVH DRGS GSV RMWRERWFZO, YFG
RM ZM LM-ORMV VMERILMNVMG, DSVIV Z DLIP XZM YV ZWZKGVW ZMW GRMPVIVW DRGS
YB NZMB RMWRERWFZOH, GSVIV RH XLMXVIM.  RU XSZMTVH ZIV ZFGSLIRAVW ZMW
GSVIV RH ML ZTIVVNVMG GL GSV XLMGIZIB, GSV KVIHLM DSL XSZMTVH Z DLIP LDMH
GSV XSZMTVH.  GL KFG RG ZMLGSVI DZB, GSV KVIHLM DSL ZXJFRIVH KVINRHHRLM
GL XSZMTV Z DLIP GVXSMRXZOOB DROO YVXLNV GSV ZFGSLI ZMW GSV LDMVI, FMOVHH
HLNV ZTIVVNVMG GL GSV XLMGIZIB SZH YVVM NZWV.  RG RH GBKRXZO ULI GSV
LIRTRMZO KFYORHSVI GL GIB GL XLMGILO ZOO LU GSV EVIHRLMH ZMW ZOO LU GSV
FHVH.  XLKBIRTSG OZD ZODZBH LMOB HVGH FK GSV YLFMWZIRVH.  ZMBGSRMT XZM YV
XSZMTVW YB XLMGIZXG.

                                 ******

HVHHRLM ERR.  XLMXOFHRLM

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
TVMVIZO WRHXFHHRLM * GDL JFVHGRLMH ULI WRHXFHHRLM * WRUUVIVMG VNKSZHVH RM
GSV DLIPHSLK * YIRMTRMT GSV GVCG ZMW RNZTV KZIGRHZMH GLTVGSVI *
WVHRWVIZGZ RM KOZMMRMT GSV OLMT-GVIN WVEVOLKNVMG LU HLNVGSRMT * JFVHGRLMH
HFIILFMWRMT GSV RHHFV LU VOVXGILMRX WVKLHRG * WRHXFHHRLM LU VOVXGILMRX
WVKLHRG ZH ZM ZOOFHRLM GL GSV RHHFV LU HGZMWZIWH * MVVW ULI Z WRIVXGLIB
LU KIVHVIEZGRLM KILQVXGH RM WRTRGZO ULIN ZMW ULI ZXXVHH GL GSVRI
WRTRGRAVW UROVH * XVGS'H XZGZOLTFV LU NZXSRMV-IVZWZYOV GVCGH RM GSV
SFNZMRGRVH * DSZG XLMHGRGFGVH Z KFYORXZGRLM RM GSV VOVXGILMRX DLIOW? *
MVVW ULI OX GL WVZO DRGS GSV XLMXVKG LU LM-ORMV KFYORHSRMT * OX'H MVGDLIP
WVEVOLKNVMG LUURXV  VCKOLIRMT GSV ORNRGH LU NZIX ZH Z HGZMWZIW RM GVINH
LU SZMWORMT VOVXGILMRX RMULINZGRLM * NZTMRGFWV LU GSV KILYOVN ZMW GSV
MVVW ULI WRHGIRYFGVW IVHKLMHRYRORGB RM LIWVI GL NZRMGZRM ZMW HGLIV
VOVXGILMRX RMULINZGRLM * DLIPHSLK KZIGRXRKZMGH GL YV ERVDVW ZH Z HGZIGRMT
KLRMG * WVEVOLKNVMG LU Z MVGDLIP EVIHRLM LU ZN FITVW * Z HGVK GLDZIW ZN'H
XLMHGIFXGRLM LU HLNV HLIG LU ZKKZIZGFH ULI MVGDLIP ZXXVHH * Z WVORXZGV
ZMW ZTLMRARMT KLORXB JFVHGRLM ULI OX * IV GSV RHHFV LU VOVXGILMRX
WVKLHRG, OX FITVW GL RMRGRZGV Z XZGZOBGRX KILXVHH RM GVINH LU WRHGIRYFGVW
IVHKLMHRYRORGB * HFTTVHGRLMH ULI XLLKVIZGREV EVMGFIVH * XLNNVIXRZO
KFYORHSVIH' UVZIH * HGIZGVTRX JFVHGRLMH ULI TVGGRMT GSV RNZTV ZMW GVCG
KVLKOV GL GSRMP GSILFTS OLMT-GVIN XLLKVIZGRLM * XOZIRURXZGRLM LU GSV
WIRERMT ULIXV YVSRMW YLGS GSV KVIHVFH ZMW GSV XLIMVOO CVILC KILQVXGH *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

RM SRH ILOV ZH NLWVIZGLI LU GSV XLMXOFWRMT HVHHRLM, TRUULIW IZRHVW GDL
JFVHGRLMH SV YVORVEVW DLFOW YVMVURG UILN WRHXFHHRLM:  1) ZIV GSVIV VMLFTS
XLNNLMZORGRVH ZNLMT GSLHV LU FH GSZG SZEV YVVM SVIV ULI GDL WZBH HL GSZG
DV XZM HVV XLFIHVH LU ZXGRLM GSZG HSLFOW YV GZPVM RM GSV UFGFIV?  ZMW, RU
HL, DSZG ZIV GSVB ZMW DSL NRTSG GZPV GSVN?  2) KZIGOB WVIREZGREV UILN
GSZG, YFG LYERLFHOB EVIB WZMTVILFH GL OX ZH SLHG, WL BLF HVV Z ILOV ULI
GSV ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH RM ZOO GSRH?  LU XLFIHV, GSV ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH
SLOWH Z IZGSVI HKVXRZO HGZGFH RM Z MFNYVI LU GSVHV NZGGVIH, YVXZFHV RG RH
MLG KVIXVREVW ZH Z KOZBVI DRGS ZM VXLMLNRX HGZPV RM GSVN, YFG ZIV GSVIV
ILOVH GSZG OX XZM KOZB GSZG XZM SVOK ZWEZMXV FH GLDZIW DSVIV DV ZIV SVZWRMT?

WVHXIRYRMT SRNHVOU ZH ZM FMRMULINVW LYHVIEVI LU GSV GVXSMRXZORGRVH LU GSV
OZHG GDL WZBH, TRUULIW WVGVXGVW GSIVV WRUUVIVMG VNKSZHVH RM GSV DLIPHSLK:
1) KVLKOV DSL ZIV EVIB WVVKOB XLNNRGGVW GL GVCG; 2) KVLKOV DSL ZIV ZONLHG
KZHHRLMZGV ZYLFG RNZTVH; ZMW 3) Z UVD KVLKOV DSL ZIV EVIB XLNNRGGVW GL
DSZG SZKKVMH GL GSV MVGDLIPH.  RM LGSVI DLIWH, GSV MVD MVGDLIPRMT
WRNVMHRLM, GSV ZXXVHHRYRORGB LU GSV KILXVHHZYRORGB, GSV KLIGZYRORGB LU
ZOO GSRH ZXILHH GSV MVGDLIPH.  SLD WL DV KFOO GSLHV GSIVV GLTVGSVI?

ZWWRMT Z JFVHGRLM GSZG IVUOVXGVW SLXPVB'H XLNNVMG GSZG GSRH DZH GSV
ULFIGS DLIPHSLK HSV SZW ZGGVMWVW RM GSV KIVERLFH GSRIGB WZBH, UOVRHXSSZFVI
DLMWVIVW GL DSZG VCGVMG GSRH NVVGRMT SZW IVRMEVMGVW GSV DSVVO, LI RU RG
SZW XLMGIRYFGVW ZMBGSRMT RM GSV DZB LU YIRMTRMT GLTVGSVI Z WRUUVIVMG TILFK
LU KVLKOV UILN GSLHV DSL MLINZOOB ZKKVZI LM GSV DLIPHSLK XRIXFRG.

SLXPVB XLMUVHHVW GL YVRMT HGIFXP ZG GSRH NVVGRMT ZMW GSV LMV GSV
VOVXGILMRX KRVIXV XLMHLIGRFN LITZMRAVW GSV KIVERLFH DVVP GSZG GSRH DZH Z
XLNRMT GLTVGSVI LU KVLKOV DLIPRMT LM GVCGH ZMW MLG RNZTVH.  ZGGVNKGRMT GL
YIRMT GSV GDL GLTVGSVI RH HLNVGSRMT DV LFTSG GL YV GSRMPRMT ZYLFG ULI GSV
UFGFIV:  SLD LMV XZM GSRMP ZYLFG DLIPRMT DRGS RNZTV NZGVIRZO GL YVTRM
DRGS, YFG HGIFXGFIRMT RG ZMW WRTRGRARMT RG RM HFXS Z DZB GSZG ZG Z OZGVI
HGZTV RG XZM YV RMGVIKIVGVW RMGL GVCG, ZMW URMW Z XLNNLM DZB LU YFROWRMT
GVCG ZMW RNZTVH GLTVGSVI HL GSZG GSVB XZM YV FHVW QLRMGOB RM GSV UFGFIV,
DRGS GSV MVGDLIP HFKKLIG GL YVTRM GSVIV YVXZFHV GSZG RH SLD KVLKOV DROO
DZMG GL ZXXVHH RG.

RM KOZMMRMT GSV OLMT-GVIN WVEVOLKNVMG LU HLNVGSRMT, DSRXS RH DSZG RH
YVRMT WLMV RM VOVXGILMRX GVCG, SLXPVB HGIVHHVW GSV RNKLIGZMXV MLG LMOB
LU WRHXFHHRMT GSV GVXSMRXZO ZHKVXGH LU SLD LMV WLVH RG YFG KZIGRXFOZIOB
LU GSRMPRMT ZYLFG DSZG GSV KVLKOV DSL FHV GSV HGFUU DROO DZMG GL WL.
YFG XLMEVIHVOB, GSVIV ZIV MFNVILFH GSRMTH GSZG KVLKOV HGZIG GL WL DRGS
VOVXGILMRX GVCG LI NZGVIRZO GSZG MLYLWB VEVI GSLFTSG LU RM GSV YVTRMMRMT.

OVHP, RM IVHKLMHV GL GSV JFVHGRLM XLMXVIMRMT GSV ILOV LU GSV ORYIZIB LU
XLMTIVHH, IVNZIPVW GSV LUGVM HFTTVHGVW WVHRWVIZGFN LU SZERMT VOVXGILMRX
WVKLHRG:  HRMXV VEVIBGSRMT RH MLD XLNKFGVI-GBKVHVG, ZM VMGRIV WVXZWV LU
NZGVIRZO GSZG DZH NZXSRMV-IVZWZYOV VCRHGH, YFG GSV KFYORHSVIH UIVJFVMGOB
WRW MLG HZEV RG; SZH OX GZPVM ZMB ZXGRLM GL SZEV RGH XLKBIRTSG WVKLHRG
LKVIZGRLM HGZIG XLOOVXGRMT GSVHV NZXSRMV-IVZWZYOV EVIHRLMH?  RM GSV
ZYHVMXV LU KVGVIH, TRUULIW IVKORVW GSZG GSV JFVHGRLM DZH YVRMT
ZXGREVOB XLMHRWVIVW YFG GSZG GSZG DZH LMOB LMV WRNVMHRLM LU GSV KILYOVN.
ZMLGSVI WRNVMHRLM RH GSV DSLOV JFVHGRLM LU GSV RMGVTIRGB LU GSV LIRTRMZO
VOVXGILMRX WLXFNVMG.  RG YVXLNVH SRTSOB RNKLIGZMG RM HXRVMXV GL KILEV
ZFGSLIHSRK.  SLD DROO GSZG YV WLMV?

VIDZB VCKOZRMVW GSZG, FMWVI GSV LOW KLORXB, GL NZPV Z XOZRN ULI Z
XLKBIRTSG ULI DLIPH GSZG DVIV KFYORHSVW RM VOVXGILMRX ULIN, RMXOFWRMT
HLUGDZIV, LMV SZW GL HFYNRG Z KZKVI XLKB LU GSV URIHG ZMW OZHG GDVMGB
KZTVH LU XLWV--HLNVGSRMT GSZG IVKIVHVMGVW GSV DLIP YFG WRW MLG RMXOFWV
GSV VMGRIV DLIP RGHVOU ZMW SZW ORGGOV EZOFV GL ZMBLMV.  ZH Z GVNKLIZIB
NVZHFIV, OX SZH XOZRNVW GSV IRTSG GL WVNZMW VOVXGILMRX EVIHRLMH LU
VOVXGILMRX KFYORXZGRLMH.  GSRH NVZHFIV VMGZROH Z KILZXGREV ILOV ULI GSV
ORYIZIB GL HZB GSZG RG DZMGH Z KZIGRXFOZI VOVXGILMRX EVIHRLM.  KFYORHSVIH
GSVM SZEV KVISZKH Z BVZI GL HFYNRG RG.  YFG GSV IVZO KILYOVN ULI OX RH
DSZG GL WL DRGS ZOO GSRH NZGVIRZO RM ZOO GSVHV WRUUVIVMG ULINZGH.  DROO
GSV ORYIZIB NLFMG RG?  SLD DROO RG TREV KVLKOV ZXXVHH GL RG?  SLD WLVH OX
PVVK GIZXP LU GSV ZKKILKIRZGV XLNKFGVIH, HLUGDZIV, ZMW NVWRZ?  GSV HRGFZGRLM
RH HL SZIW GL XLMGILO, VIDZB HZRW, GSZG RG NZPVH HVMHV ULI VZXS KFYORHSRMT
SLFHV GL NZRMGZRM RGH LDM ZIXSREV.  YFG OX XZMMLG VMULIXV GSZG VRGSVI.

TRUULIW ZXPMLDOVWTVW OVHP'H HFTTVHGRLM GSZG VHGZYORHSRMT Z KIRLIRGB
LUUVIVW GSV HLOFGRLM, ZOYVRG Z UZRIOB XLNKORXZGVW LMV.  YFG DSL NZRMGZRMH
GSZG IVTRHGVI?, SV ZHPVW.  TIZYVI MLGVW GSZG OX WLVH ZGGVNKG GL XLOOVXG Z
NZXRMGLHS EVIHRLM ZMW GSV RYN-XLNKZGRYOV EVIHRLM LU HLUGDZIV.  RG WLVH
MLG XLOOVXG LGSVI EVIHRLMH.  YFG DSROV GIFV ULI HLUGDZIV, YBIFN LYHVIEVW,
GSRH IVKOB WLVH MLG HKVZP GL NZGVIRZOH, GSZG RH, ZOO GSV NZGVIRZOH GSZG
DVIV KFYORHSVW GSZG DVIV LM HLNVYLWB'H NRXILXLNKFGVI LI WIREVI GZKVH
ZG Z KFYORHSRMT LUURXV ZXILHH GSV XLFMGIB.  OX WLVH DVOO GL ZXJFRIV
HKVXRURX NZXSRMV-IVZWZYOV KILWFXGH HVOVXGREVOB GSZG DVIV RMGVMWVW GL YV
NZXSRMV-IVZWZYOV.  NZGVIRZOH GSZG DVIV RM NZXSRMV-IVZWZYOV ULIN ZG LMV GRNV,
YBIFN HZRW, DLFOW YV YVBLMW OX'H XZKZYRORGB ZG GSV NLNVMG, RMHLUZI ZH
ZGGVNKGRMT GL ZXJFRIV, LITZMRAV, ZMW KIVHVIEV GSVN ZIV XLMXVIMVW--ZMW
KIVHVIEZGRLM DLFOW YV GSV NLHG RNKLIGZMG XLMHRWVIZGRLM.  RM GSRH
XLMMVXGRLM, TRUULIW IVRGVIZGVW GSV MVVW GL DLIP LFG HLNV HVMHV LU
WRHGIRYFGREV IVHKLMHRYRORGB ULI Z MFNYVI LU GSVHV RHHFVH, DSRXS
RMVERGZYOB DROO IVJFRIV HRTMRURXZMG XLLKVIZGRLM ZMW WRHXFHHRLM.
MLYLWB XZM WL RG ZOO.

OVHP HFTTVHGVW GSZG HLNV KFYORHSVIH NZB OLLP DRGS UZELI LM OX YVTRMMRMT
GL HVIEV ZH Z WVKLHRGLIB LU GZKVH RM ZM VOVXGILMRX NZMFHXIRKG HGZMWZIW.
KFYORHSVIH NZB ERVD GSRH ZH Z HVIERXV GSZG GSVB WRW MLG SZEV GL KVIULIN
ZMW GSVB NRTSG HVMW RM GZKVH.  SLDVEVI, HKVIYVIT-NXJFVVM XLFMGVIVW,
ZOGSLFTS KFYORHSVIH SZEV SZW VJFREZOVMG HVIERXVH ZEZROZYOV GL GSVN ULI Z
OLMT GRNV, GSV VOVXGILMRX GVCG ZIXSREV SZH MVEVI GFIMVW ZDZB LI YVVM
UOLLWVW DRGS GZKVH ZMW RH ULIVEVI HVMWRMT UVVWYZXP GL GSV WVKLHRGLI.
HLNV KFYORHSVIH WL HVMW RM GZKVH.

ZMWIV ERVDVW GSRH WRHXFHHRLM ZH ZM ZOOFHRLM GL GSV RHHFV LU HGZMWZIWH.
HSV IVXLNNVMWVW GSZG GSV ZZK HGZMWZIW ZMW GSV GVR, DSRXS SZH ZOIVZWB YVVM
HLNVDSZG SZINLMRAVW RMGVIMZGRLMZOOB ZMW DSRXS ZOHL HSZIVH HVEVIZO
XLNKZGRYRORGRVH DRGS GSV ZZK, YV SZINLMRAVW GL VMHFIV HFUURXRVMG
XLNKZGRYRORGB RM GSV HLUGDZIV.  HSV WIVD GSV ORMV ZG HZBRMT OX LFTSG GL
YV GSV OLXFH LI ULIFN ULI HFXS SZINLMRAZGRLM.

GZPRMT GSV TILFK RM Z HORTSGOB WRUUVIVMG WRIVXGRLM, YFG LMV DSVIV ZG
OVZHG RM GSV MVZI GVIN OX NRTSG KOZB Z SVOKUFO ILOV, OBMXS IVNZIPVW GSV
KOZMH LU Z MFNYVI LU KILQVXGH GL XZIIB LFG KIVHVIEZGRLM YB XIVZGRMT
WRTRGZO RNZTVH GSZG DROO VMW FK RM LM-ORMV LI MVZI-ORMV HGLIZTV ZG HLNV
RMHGRGFGRLM.   KIVHFNZYOB, OX DROO ORMP GSRH NZGVIRZO HLNVSLD GL RGH
LM-ORMV XZGZOLT RM NLHG XZHVH.  GSFH, RG RH RM Z WRTRGZO ULIN.  OBMXS SZW
GSV RNKIVHHRLM GSZG NZMB LU GSVHV RMHGRGFGRLMH DLFOW YV DROORMT GL NZPV
GSLHV UROVH ZXXVHHRYOV GL LGSVI KVLKOV LFGHRWV GSV RMHGRGFGRLM, KILERWVW
GSZG GSVIV RH ML XLKBIRTSG KILYOVN.  GSRH WVHRWVIZGFN DROO IVJFRIV
KILKZTZGRMT GSV PMLDOVWTV GSZG GSLHV WRTRGRAVW UROVH VCRHG, HL GSZG GSVB
XZM VMW FK RM LGSVI LM-ORMV XZGZOLTH.  ZOGSLFTS FMXVIGZRM ZYLFG GSV
NVXSZMRHN ULI ZXSRVERMT GSRH IVHFOG, OBMXS HZRW GSZG RG DZIIZMGVW
HXIFGRMB YVXZFHV RG HVVNVW GL YV XLMMVXGVW GL HLNV LU GSV YZHRX RHHFVH LU
XZGZOLTRMT ZMW WRHGIRYFGRLM LU IVXLIWH.  RG DLFOW YV  ULLORHS, TREVM GSV
ZNLFMG LU DLIP GSZG ZOO LU FH SZEV GL WL ZMW LFI NVZTVI IVHLFIXVH, GL
WRHXLEVI NFOGRKOV RMHGRGFGRLMH WRTRGRARMT GSV HZNV DLIP.  IV NRXILULINH,
OBMXS HZRW, DV ZIV RM KIVGGB TLLW HSZKV.

YZGGRM XZOOVW GSRH Z YRT KILYOVN ZMW MLGVW GSZG GSV XLIMVOO KVLKOV (DSL
SZW ZOIVZWB WVKZIGVW) DVIV DLIPRMT LM RG.  ZG RHHFV UILN GSV YVTRMMRMT
DZH GL OVZIM SLD GL XZGZOLT GSZG RMULINZGRLM RMGL IORM ZMW GSVM RMGL
LXOX, HL GSZG RG DLFOW YV ZXXVHHRYOV.  GSZG RHHFV IVNZRMH GL YV IVHLOEVW.
OBMXS IVQLRMVW GSZG KFGGRMT RG RMGL LXOX LI IORM DZH SVOKUFO RMHLUZI ZH
HLNVYLWB DSL RH GSRMPRMT LU KVIULINRMT KIVHVIEZGRLM ZXGRERGB LM GSZG DLIP
XLFOW OVZIM ZYLFG RG.  RG RH MLG MVXVHHZIROB SVOKUFO ULI RMHGRGFGRLMH GL
NZPV GSZG ZEZROZYOV.  YZGGRM LKRMVW GSZG GSV RWVZ DZH GSZG RG MLG LMOB YV
ULI KIVHVIEZGRLM KFIKLHVH YFG ULI GSV XLMEVMRVMXV LU KVLKOV OLLPRMT ULI
GSRH NZGVIRZO.  HSV VMWLIHVW OBMXS'H WRXGFN GSZG WFKORXZGRLM LU GSRH
VUULIG DZH GL YV ZELRWVW YB VEVIB NVZMH.

SLXPVB RMULINVW GSV DLIPHSLK ZYLFG LMV NZQLI XFIIVMG ZXGRERGB LU XVGS,
MZNVOB Z XZGZOLTFV LU NZXSRMV-IVZWZYOV GVCGH RM GSV SFNZMRGRVH.  SVOW LM
IORM ZG KIVHVMG, GSV XZGZOLTFV SZH YVVM XLMXVMGIZGVW LM ZHXRR ZH LKKLHVW
GL WRTRGRAVW RNZTVH LU GVCG.  HSV RH VCKOLIRMT DZBH GL RNKILEV GSV
XZGZOLTFV ZMW NZPV RG NLIV DRWVOB ZEZROZYOV, ZMW DVOXLNVW HFTTVHGRLMH
ZYLFG GSVHV XLMXVIMH.  XVGS LDMH GSV IVXLIWH, DSRXS ZIV MLG QFHG
IVHGIRXGVW GL IORM, ZMW XZM WRHGIRYFGV GSVN SLDVEVI RG DRHSVH.

GZPRMT FK OVHP'H VZIORVI JFVHGRLM, YZGGRM RMJFRIVW DSVGSVI OX, HRMXV RG
RH ZXXVKGRMT VOVXGILMRX UROVH ZMW WVHRTMRMT Z NVXSZMRHN ULI WVZORMT DRGS
GSZG IZGSVI GSZM KFGGRMT YLLPH LM HSVOEVH, DLFOW YVXLNV IVHKLMHRYOV ULI
GSV MZGRLMZO XLKBIRTSG WVKLHRGLIB LU VOVXGILMRX NZGVIRZOH.  LU XLFIHV
GSZG XLFOW MLG YV ZXXLNKORHSVW LEVIMRTSG, YFG RG DLFOW YV HLNVGSRMT OX
XLFOW KOZM ULI.  TRUULIW ZXPMLDOVWTVW GSZG NFXS GSLFTSG DZH YVRMT WVELGVW
GL GSZG HVG LU KILYOVNH ZMW IVGFIMVW GSV WRHXFHHRLM GL GSV RHHFV IZRHVW
YB OBMXS--DSVGSVI LI MLG KFGGRMT GSV PRMW LU IVXLIWH GSZG YLGS YZGGRM ZMW
SLXPVB SZEV YVVM GZOPRMT ZYLFG RM IORM RH MLG Z HZGRHUZXGLIB HLOFGRLM.
RG HVVNVW GL SRN GSZG IORM ZMHDVIVW OBMXS'H LIRTRMZO KLRMG XLMXVIMRMT
HLNV PRMW LU WRIVXGLIB ULI GSVHV PRMWH LU NZGVIRZOH.  RM Z HRGFZGRLM
DSVIV HLNVYLWB RH ZGGVNKGRMT GL WVXRWV DSVGSVI LI MLG GL HXZM GSRH LI
URON GSZG LI GL OVZIM DSVGSVI LI MLG HLNVLMV SZH ZOIVZWB WLMV HL, OBMXS
HFTTVHGVW, IORM RH SVOKUFO, YFG RG RH MLG SVOKUFO RM GSV XZHV LU Z OLXZO,
LM-ORMV XZGZOLTFV.  UFIGSVI, LMV DLFOW ORPV GL SZEV SVI LI SRH HBHGVN YV
ZDZIV GSZG GSZG VCRHGH RM WRTRGZO ULIN, HL GSZG LMV XZM KIVHVMG RG GL Z
KZGILM, VEVM GSLFTS LMV WRW MLG WRTRGRAV RG, RU RG RH LFG LU XLKBIRTSG.
GSV LMOB DZB GL NZPV GSLHV ORMPZTVH DLFOW YV GL KVIULIN Z GIVNVMWLFH
ZNLFMG LU IVZO-GRNV OLLP-FK, DSRXS DLFOW YV ZDPDZIW ZG YVHG, LI
KVIRLWRXZOOB GL BZMP GSV DSLOV UROV UILN IORM ZMW NZGXS RG ZTZRMHG LMV'H
LDM HGFUU, DSRXS RH Z MFRHZMXV.

YFG DSVIV, VIDZB RMJFRIVW, WLVH LMV HGLK RMXOFWRMT GSRMTH GSZG ZIV
ZEZROZYOV DRGS RMGVIMVG, ULI RMHGZMXV, RM LMV'H OLXZO XZGZOLTFV?
RG ZONLHG HVVNH GSZG GSZG RH OX'H NVZMH GL ZXJFRIV ZXXVHH GL GSVN.
GSZG IVKIVHVMGH OX'H MVD ULIN LU ORYIZIB OLZM.  KVISZKH OX'H MVD LM-ORMV
XZGZOLTFV RH ZM ZNZOTZNZGRLM LU ZOO GSVHV XZGZOLTFVH LM ORMV.  OBMXS
XLMXVWVW GSZG KVISZKH GSZG DZH GIFV RM GSV EVIB OLMT GVIN, YFG DZH MLG
ZKKORXZYOV GL HXZMMRMT RM GSV HSLIG GVIN.  RM SRH ERVD, GSV GLGZOH XRGVW
YB BZOV, 10,000 YLLPH LEVI KVISZKH Z ULFI-BVZI KVIRLW, ZMW 1,000-1,500
YLLPH UILN XLIMVOO, DVIV MLG YRT MFNYVIH, DSROV HVZIXSRMT ZOO LEVI
XIVZGRLM ULI IVOZGREVOB IZIV LXXFIIVMXVH DROO KILEV GL YV OVHH VUURXRVMG.
ZH TRUULIW DLMWVIVW RU GSRH DLFOW MLG YV Z HVKZIZYOV UROV LM IORM ZMW
XLFOW YV IVJFVHGVW UILN GSVN, YZGGRM RMGVIQVXGVW GSZG RG DZH VZHROB
ZXXVHHRYOV GL ZM RMHGRGFGRLM.  HVEVIGHLM KLRMGVW LFG GSZG GSZG UROV, XFN
VMSZMXVNVMGH, DZH ZEZROZYOV DRGS IVUVIVMXV RMULINZGRLM LM XW-ILN, DSRXS
NZPVH RG Z ORGGOV NLIV ZEZROZYOV.

RM SLXPVB'H ERVD, GSV IVZO JFVHGRLM UZXRMT GSV DLIPHSLK RH DSZG GL KFG RM
GSRH XZGZOLTFV, YVXZFHV GSZG IZRHVH GSV JFVHGRLM LU DSZG XLMHGRGFGVH Z
KFYORXZGRLM RM GSV VOVXGILMRX DLIOW.  (DVRYVO RMGVIQVXGVW GSZG VIRX QLFOV
RM LXOX'H LUURXV LU IVHVZIXS RH ZOHL DIVHGORMT DRGS GSRH KZIGRXFOZI
KILYOVN, DSROV TRUULIW GSLFTSG RG HLFMWVW UZRIOB TVMVIRX.)  SLXPVB
XLMGVMWVW GSZG Z NZQLIRGB LU GVCGH RM GSV SFNZMRGRVH ZIV RM GSV SZMWH
LU VRGSVI Z HNZOO MFNYVI LU OZITV IVHVZIXS RMHGRGFGRLMH LI RMWRERWFZOH
ZMW ZIV MLG TVMVIZOOB ZEZROZYOV ULI ZMBLMV VOHV GL ZXXVHH ZG ZOO.
HSV DLMWVIVW RU GSVHV GVCGH LFTSG GL YV XZGZOLTFVW.

ZUGVI ZITFNVMG KILXVVWVW YZXP ZMW ULIGS ULI HVEVIZO NRMFGVH LEVI DSB
XZGZOLTFRMT NRTSG YV Z MVXVHHZIB HVIERXV, OVYILM HFTTVHGVW GSZG GSRH
RHHFV RMELOEVW GSV IVHKLMHRYRORGB LU Z KFYORHSVI.  GSV UZXG GSZG HLNVLMV
SZH XIVZGVW HLNVGSRMT VOVXGILMRXZOOB ZMW PVVKH RG FMWVI SRH LI SVI
XLMGILO WLVH MLG XLMHGRGFGV KFYORXZGRLM.  KFYORXZGRLM RNKORVH
WRHHVNRMZGRLM.  DSROV RG DLFOW YV RNKLIGZMG ULI Z HXSLOZI GL OVG LGSVI
KVLKOV PMLD GSZG GSRH XIVZGRLM VCRHGH, RM NZMB IVHKVXGH GSRH RH ML
WRUUVIVMG UILN ZM FMKFYORHSVW NZMFHXIRKG.  GSZG RH DSZG RH YVRMT ZXXVHHVW
RM GSVIV, VCXVKG GSZG MLD LMV RH MLG OLLPRMT ZG RG RM GSV SZIW-XLKB YFG
RM GSV VOVXGILMRX VMERILMNVMG.

OVYILM VCKIVHHVW KFAAOVNVMG ZG GSV EZIRVGB LU DZBH VOVXGILMRX KFYORHSRMT
SZH YVVM ERVDVW.  NFXS LU DSZG SZH YVVM WRHXFHHVW GSILFTSLFG GSVHV GDL
WZBH SZH XLMXVIMVW XW-ILN KFYORHSRMT, DSVIVZH RM GSV LM-ORMV VMERILMNVMG
GSZG HSV XLMUILMGH, GSV XLMHGIZRMGH ZMW XSZOOVMTVH ZIV EVIB WRUUVIVMG.
HLLMVI LI OZGVI OX DROO SZEV GL WVZO DRGS GSV XLMXVKG LU LM-ORMV
KFYORHSRMT.  GZPRMT FK GSV XLNNVMG VIDZB NZWV VZIORVI ZYLFG HGLIRMT
XLKRVH, OVYILM TZEV SVI LDM QLFIMZO ZH ZM VCZNKOV.  SLD DLFOW HSV WVKLHRG
LQXXG ULI XLKBIRTSG?, HSV ZHPVW, YVXZFHV GSV QLFIMZO DROO VCRHG RM GSV
NZRMUIZNV ZG LXOX ZMW KVLKOV DROO YV ZYOV GL ZXXVHH RG.  SVIV GSV
HRGFZGRLM RH WRUUVIVMG, LDMVIHSRK EVIHFH ZXXVHH, ZMW RH HLNVGSRMT GSZG
ZIRHVH DRGS KFYORXZGRLM RM GSV LM-ORMV VMERILMNVMG, UZHGVI GSZM RH
HLNVGRNVH IVZORAVW.  OZXPRMT XOVZI ZMHDVIH GL ZOO LU GSVHV JFVHGRLMH
SVIHVOU, OVYILM WRW MLG ZMGRXRKZGV GSZG OX DLFOW YV ZYOV GL GZPV Z ILOV
RM SVOKRMT GL WVURMV HLNV LU GSVN ULI JFRGV Z DSROV.

TIVVMURVOW LYHVIEVW GSZG OX'H MVGDLIP WVEVOLKNVMG LUURXV RH ZGGVNKGRMT,
ZNLMT LGSVI GSRMTH, GL VCKOLIV GSV ORNRGH LU NZIX ZH Z HGZMWZIW RM GVINH
LU SZMWORMT VOVXGILMRX RMULINZGRLM.  TIVVMURVOW ZOHL MLGVW GSZG IVYVXXZ
TFVMGSVI UILN GSZG LUURXV TZEV Z KZKVI GL GSV ZNVIRXZM HLXRVGB ULI
RMULINZGRLM HXRVMXV (ZHRH) HFNNZIRARMT HVEVIZO LU GSV WRHXFHHRLM KZKVIH
GSZG DVIV XLNRMT LFG LU GSV MVGDLIP WVEVOLKNVMG LUURXV.  TIVVMURVOW HZRW
SV FMWVIHGLLW GSZG GSZG LUURXV SZW Z ORHG-HVIEVI HLORXRGRMT QFHG GSV PRMW
LU UVVWYZXP IVXVREVW GLWZB XLMXVIMRMT GSV WRUURXFOGRVH LU RWVMGRUBRMT ZMW
XZGZOLTFRMT VOVXGILMRX RMULINZGRLM.  TIVVMURVOW SLKVW GSZG VEVIBYLWB
DLFOW YV ZDZIV LU GSZG ZMW HLNVSLD XLMGIRYFGV GL GSZG XLMEVIHZGRLM.

MLGRMT GDL LU OX'H ILOVH, URIHG, GL ZXG ZH Z IVKLHRGLIB LU IVXLIW ULI
NZGVIRZO GSZG RH XLKBIRTSGVW RM GSRH XLFMGIB, ZMW HVXLMW, GL NZPV
NZGVIRZOH RG SLOWH ZEZROZYOV RM HLNV ORNRGVW ULIN GL Z XORVMGVOV GSZG
TLVH YVBLMW XLMTIVHH, YVHHVI HFTTVHGVW GSZG RG DZH RMXFNYVMG LM OX GL
VCGVMW GSLHV IVHKLMHRYRORGRVH GL ZOO GSV GSRMTH YVRMT KFYORHSVW RM
VOVXGILMRX ULIN.  GSRH DLFOW NVZM VEVMGFZOOB ZXXVKGRMT VOVXGILMRX
ULINZGH.  OX XLFOW IVJFRIV GSZG ZG HLNV KLRMG GSVB YV RM Z XVIGZRM
ORNRGVW HVG LU ULINZGH, ZMW GSVM WVEVOLK NVXSZMRHNH ULI ZOOLDRMT KVLKOV
GL ZXXVHH GSLHV RM GSV HZNV DZB GSZG LGSVI GSRMTH ZIV ZXXVHHVW.  GSRH
WLVH MLG RNKOB GSZG GSVB ZIV LM GSV MVGDLIP ZMW ZEZROZYOV GL VEVIBLMV.
OX WLVH GSZG DRGS NLHG LU RGH YRYORLTIZKSRX IVXLIWH, YVHHVI HZRW, DSRXS
VMW FK NRTIZGRMT GL GSV FGRORGB (V.T., LXOX) LI HLNVDSVIV VOHV.  YFG QFHG
ZH NLHG LU OX'H YLLPH ZIV ZEZROZYOV RM HLNV ULIN GSILFTS RMGVIORYIZIB
OLZM LI HLNV LGSVI NVXSZMRHN, HL RM GSV HZNV DZB VOVXGILMRX ULINZGH LFTSG
GL YV ZEZROZYOV GL LGSVIH RM HLNV ULINZG, GSLFTS DRGS HLNV XLKBIRTSG
XLMHRWVIZGRLMH.  YVHHVI DZH MLG HFTTVHGRMT GSZG GSVHV NVXSZMRHNH YV
VHGZYORHSVW GLNLIILD, LMOB GSZG GSVB HVVNVW GL UZOO DRGSRM OX'H KFIERVD,
ZMW GSZG GSVIV HSLFOW YV OLMT-IZMTV KOZMH GL VHGZYORHS GSVN.

ZXPMLDOVWTRMT GSZG GSLHV UILN OX RM GSV ILLN ZTIVVW DRGS YVHHVI
XLMXVIMRMT GSV MVVW GL XLMUILMG WRUURXFOG JFVHGRLMH, TRUULIW FMWVIHXLIVW
GSV NZTMRGFWV LU GSV KILYOVN LU DSZG GL PVVK ZMW DSZG GL HVOVXG.  TRUULIW
MLGVW GSZG OX XFIIVMGOB IVXVREVH HLNV 31,000 RGVNH KVI WZB, MLG XLFMGRMT
VOVXGILMRX NZGVIRZOH, ZMW ZITFVW ULI NFXS NLIV WRHGIRYFGVW IVHKLMHRYRORGB
RM LIWVI GL NZRMGZRM ZMW HGLIV VOVXGILMRX RMULINZGRLM.

YVHHVI IVHKLMWVW GSZG GSV ZHHVNYOVW TILFK XLFOW YV ERVDVW ZH Z HGZIGRMT
KLRMG, DSLHV RMRGRZO LKVIZGRMT KIVNRHV XLFOW YV SVOKRMT GL NLEV RM GSRH
WRIVXGRLM ZMW WVURMRMT SLD OX XLFOW WL HL, ULI VCZNKOV, RM ZIVZH LU
HGZMWZIWRAZGRLM LI WRHGIRYFGRLM LU IVHKLMHRYRORGB.

UOVRHXSSZFVI ZWWVW GSZG ZN DZH UFOOB VMTZTVW, DIVHGORMT DRGS HLNV LU GSV
JFVHGRLMH GSZG KVIGZRM GL GSV XLMEVIHRLM LU LOWVI SRHGLIRXZO NZGVIRZOH,
DSRXS DLFOW YV LMV GSRMT GSZG GSV ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH NRTSG WL.  HVEVIZO
KLRMGH NVMGRLMVW YB YVHHVI ZMW HVEVIZO LGSVIH LM GSRH JFVHGRLM SZEV Z
NFXS TIVZGVI RNKZXG LM GSLHV DSL ZIV XLMXVIMVW DRGS XZGZOLTFRMT ZMW GSV
MVGDLIPRMT LU YRYORLTIZKSRX RMULINZGRLM, ZH DVOO ZH KIVHVIEZGRLM RGHVOU.

HKVZPRMT WRIVXGOB GL ZN, DSRXS SV XLMHRWVIVW DZH Z OZITVOB FMXLKBIRTSGVW
WZGZYZHV, OBMXS FITVW WVEVOLKNVMG LU Z MVGDLIP EVIHRLM LU ZN, LI
XLMHRWVIZGRLM LU NZPRMT GSV WZGZ RM RG ZEZROZYOV GL KVLKOV RMGVIVHGVW RM
WLRMT MVGDLIP NFOGRNVWRZ.  LM ZXXLFMG LU GSV XFIIVMG TIVZG HSLIGZTV LU
WRTRGZO WZGZ GSZG RH YLGS ZKKVZORMT ZMW FMVMXFNYVIVW YB XLNKOVC IRTSGH
KILYOVNH, GSRH XLFIHV LU ZXGRLM XLFOW SZEV Z HRTMRURXZMG VUUVXG LM NZPRMT
MVGDLIP NFOGRNVWRZ Z IVZORGB.

RM GSRH XLMMVXGRLM, UOVRHXSSZFVI IVKLIGVW LM Z UIZTNVMGZIB KILGLGBKV RM
OX'H LUURXV LU RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTB HVIERXVH GSZG ZGGVNKGH GL ZHHLXRZGV
WRTRGZO RNZTVH LU KSLGLTIZKSH DRGS XZGZOLTFRMT RMULINZGRLM RM DZBH GSZG
DLIP DRGSRM Z OLXZO ZIVZ MVGDLIP--Z HGVK, HL GL HZB, GLDZIW ZN'H
XLMHGIFXGRLM LU HLNV HLIG LU ZKKZIZGFH ULI ZXXVHH.  UFIGSVI, ZN SZH
ZGGVNKGVW GL FHV HGZMWZIW WZGZ ULINH RM LIWVI GL SVOK NZPV GSZG
WRHGRMXGRLM YVGDVVM GSV ZXXVHH GLLOH ZMW GSV FMWVIOBRMT WZGZ, ZMW GSFH
YVORVEVH GSZG GSV WZGZYZHV RH MVGDLIPZYOV.

Z WVORXZGV ZMW ZTLMRARMT KLORXB JFVHGRLM ULI OX, SLDVEVI, DSRXS XLNVH
YZXP GL IVHLFIXVH ZMW FMULIGFMZGVOB SZH ZM RNKZXG LM GSRH, RH GL URMW
HLNV ZKKILKIRZGV, SLMLIZYOV, ZMW OVTZO XLHG-IVXLEVIB KLHHRYRORGRVH.  Z
XVIGZRM HPRGGRHSMVHH XLMXVIMRMT XLHG-IVXLEVIB SZH NZWV KVLKOV FMHFIV
VCZXGOB DSZG GL WL.  ZN DLFOW YV SRTSOB IVXVKGREV GL WRHXFHHRMT UFIGSVI
OBMXS'H LUUVI GL GVHG LI WVNLMHGIZGV RGH WZGZYZHV RM Z MVGDLIP
VMERILMNVMG, UOVRHXSSZFVI HZRW.

IVGFIMRMT GSV WRHXFHHRLM GL DSZG HSV ERVDVW ZH GSV ERGZO RHHFV LU
VOVXGILMRX WVKLHRG, YZGGRM IVXLNNVMWVW GSZG OX RMRGRZGV Z XZGZOBGRX
KILXVHH RM GVINH LU WRHGIRYFGVW IVHKLMHRYRORGB, GSZG RH, YIRMT GLTVGSVI
GSV WRHGIRYFGVW LITZMRAZGRLMH ZMW HVG FK Z HGFWB TILFK GL OLLP ZG ZOO
GSVHV RHHFVH ZMW HVV DSVIV DV ZH Z MZGRLM HSLFOW NLEV.  GSV YILZWVI
RHHFVH LU SLD DV WVZO DRGS GSV NZMZTVNVMG LU VOVXGILMRX RMULINZGRLM DROO
MLG WRHZKKVZI, YFG LMOB TILD DLIHV.

OVHP GLLP FK GSRH GSVNV ZMW HFTTVHGVW GSZG OX ZGGVNKG GL KVIHFZWV LMV
NZQLI ORYIZIB RM VZXS HGZGV GL WVZO DRGS RGH HGZGV VJFREZOVMG KFYORHSVI,
DSRXS NRTSG KILWFXV Z XLLKVIZGREV KILQVXG GSZG DLFOW YV VJFRGZYOB
WRHGIRYFGVW ZILFMW GSV XLFMGIB, ZMW LMV RM DSRXS OX DLFOW YV WVZORMT DRGS
Z NRMRNZO MFNYVI LU KFYORHSVIH ZMW NRMRNZO XLKBIRTSG KILYOVNH.

TIZYVI IVNZIPVW GSV IVXVMG WVEVOLKNVMG RM GSV HXRVMGRURX XLNNFMRGB LU Z
DROORMTMVHH GL FHV HTNO ZMW VRGSVI WVKLHRG LI RMGVIXSZMTV LM Z UZRIOB
HGZMWZIWRAVW ULINZG.  SV DLMWVIVW RU Z HRNROZI NLEVNVMG DZH GZPRMT KOZXV
RM GSV SFNZMRGRVH.  ZOGSLFTS GSV MZGRLMZO ORYIZIB LU NVWRXRMV ULFMW LMOB
Z UVD KFYORHSVIH GL XLLKVIZGV RM Z ORPV EVMGFIV GDL LI GSIVV BVZIH ZTL, Z
MVD VUULIG NRTSG TVMVIZGV Z NFXS OZITVI MFNYVI DROORMT GL XLLKVIZGV.

PRNYZOO IVXLFMGVW SRH FMRG'H (NZXSRMV-IVZWZYOV XLOOVXGRLMH IVZWRMT ILLN)
GILFYOVH DRGS GSV XLNNVIXRZO KFYORHSVIH LU VOVXGILMRX NVWRZ RM ZXJFRIRMT
NZGVIRZOH ULI OX'H XLOOVXGRLMH, RM KZIGRXFOZI GSV KFYORHSVIH' UVZI GSZG
GSVB DLFOW MLG YV ZYOV GL XLEVI GSVRI XLHGH ZMW DLFOW OLHV XLMGILO LU
GSVRI KILWFXGH, GSZG OX DLFOW TREV GSVN ZDZB LI HVOO GSVN ZMW NZPV
KILURGH UILN GSVN.  SV WLFYGVW GSZG GSV KFYORHSRMT RMWFHGIB DZH KIVKZIVW
GL NLEV RMGL GSRH ZIVZ ZG GSV NLNVMG, TREVM RGH IVHRHGZMXV GL ZOOLDRMT OX
GL FHV RGH NZXSRMV-IVZWZYOV NZGVIRZOH ZH GSV ORYIZIB DLFOW ORPV.

GSV XLKBIRTSG OZD MLD ZWWIVHHVH XLNKZXG WRHP ZH Z NVWRFN, ZMW OX XZM
IVJFVHG LMV XLKB LU GSZG, LI GDL XLKRVH RU RG RH GSV LMOB EVIHRLM, ZMW
XZM IVJFVHG XLKRVH LU HLUGDZIV, YFG GSZG UZROH GL ZWWIVHH NZTZARMVH LI
YLLPH LI ZMBGSRMT ORPV GSZG DSRXS RH RM NZXSRMV-IVZWZYOV ULIN.

TRUULIW ZXPMLDOVWTVW GSV GSLIMB MZGFIV LU GSRH RHHFV, DSRXS SV ROOFHGIZGVW
DRGS GSV VCZNKOV LU GSV XFNYVIHLNV KILXVHH RMELOEVW RM KFGGRMT Z XLKB LU Z
HXRVMGRURX WZGZYZHV LM Z OZM RM OX'H HXRVMXV IVZWRMT ILLN.  SV ZOHL
ZXPMLDOVWTVW GSZG OX MVVWH SVOK ZMW XLFOW VMORHG GSV VMVITRVH ZMW GZOVMGH
LU DLIPHSLK KZIGRXRKZMGH RM GSRMPRMT GSILFTS Z MFNYVI LU GSVHV KILYOVNH.

TRUULIW IVGFIMVW GSV WRHXFHHRLM GL TVGGRMT GSV RNZTV ZMW GVCG KVLKOV GL
GSRMP GSILFTS GLTVGSVI DSVIV GSVB DZMG GL TL RM GSV OLMT GVIN.  NBOLMZH
XLMXVWVW GSZG SVI VCKVIRVMXV ZG GSV KRVIXV HBNKLHRFN GSV KIVERLFH DVVP ZG
TVLITVGLDM FMREVIHRGB ZMW GSRH DVVP ZG OX SZW ULIXVW SVI GL IVVEZOFZGV
SVI KVIHKVXGREV LM GSV FHVUFOMVHH LU GVCG ZH RNZTVH.  NBOLMZH UIZNVW GSV
RHHFVH RM Z HVIRVH LU JFVHGRLMH:  SLD WL DV ZXJFRIV NZXSRMV-IVZWZYOV
GVCG?  WL DV GZPV KRXGFIVH LU RG ZMW KVIULIN LXI LM RG OZGVI?  RH RG
RNKLIGZMG GL LYGZRM EVIB SRTS-JFZORGB RNZTVH ZMW GVCG, VGX.?
UOVRHXSSZFVI ZTIVVW DRGS NBOLMZH'H UIZNRMT LU HGIZGVTRX JFVHGRLMH, ZWWRMT
GSZG Z OZITV RMHGRGFGRLM HFXS ZH OX KILYZYOB SZH GL WL ZOO LU GSLHV
GSRMTH ZG WRUUVIVMG GRNVH.  GSFH, GSV GIRXP RH GL VCVIXRHV QFWTNVMG.  GSV
DLIPHSLK SZW ZWWVW GL SRH ZMW ZN'H XLMHRWVIZGRLMH RM NZPRMT GSLHV
QFWTNVMGH.  XLMXVIMRMT UFGFIV NVVGRMTH LI WRHXFHHRLMH, NBOLMZH HFTTVHGVW
GSZG HXIVVMRMT KIRLIRGRVH DLFOW YV SVOKUFO.

DVRYVO LKRMVW GSZG GSV WREVIHRGB IVUOVXGVW RM GSRH TILFK DZH Z HRTM YLGS
LU GSV SVZOGS ZMW LU GSV RNNZGFIRGB LU GSV URVOW, ZMW NLIV GRNV DLFOW
SZEV GL KZHH YVULIV DV XLMERMXV LMV ZMLGSVI XLMXVIMRMT HGZMWZIWH.

ZM VCXSZMTV YVGDVVM NBOLMZH ZMW YZGGRM XOZIRURVW GSV KLRMG GSZG GSV
WIRERMT ULIXV YVSRMW YLGS GSV KVIHVFH ZMW GSV XLIMVOO CVILC KILQVXGH DZH
GSV KIVHVIEZGRLM LU PMLDOVWTV ULI GSV UFGFIV, MLG HRNKOB ULI KZIGRXFOZI
IVHVZIXS FHV.  RM GSV XZHV LU KVIHVFH, NBOLMZH HZRW, GSV ZHHFNKGRLM DZH
GSZG GSV GVCGH DLFOW MLG YV VMGVIVW ZTZRM RMGL VOVXGILMRXZOOB IVZWZYOV
ULIN.  HKVIYVIT-NXJFVVM ZWWVW GSZG Z HXZMMVW RNZTV DLFOW MLG HVIEV ZH ZM
ZIXSREZO XLKB ULI KFIKLHVH LU KIVHVIEZGRLM RM GSV XZHV LU, HZB, GSV YROO
LU IRTSGH, RM GSV HVMHV GSZG GSV HXZMMVW RNZTVH ZIV VUUVXGREVOB GSV
ZIXSREZO XLKRVH ULI GSV XLIMVOO NZGSVNZGRXH YLLPH.


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                          ZKKVMWRC R:  KILTIZN



                                DLIPHSLK
                                   LM
                               VOVXGILMRX
                                  GVCGH



                             9-10 QFMV 1992

                           ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH
                            DZHSRMTGLM, W.X.



