  `It matters a good deal to ME,' said Alice hastily; `but I'm
not looking for eggs, as it happens; and if I was, I shouldn't
want YOURS:  I don't like them raw.'

  `Well, be off, then!' said the Pigeon in a sulky tone, as it
settled down again into its nest.  Alice crouched down among the
trees as well as she could, for her neck kept getting entangled
among the branches, and every now and then she had to stop and
untwist it.  After a while she remembered that she still held the
pieces of mushroom in her hands, and she set to work very
carefully, nibbling first at one and then at the other, and
growing sometimes taller and sometimes shorter, until she had
succeeded in bringing herself down to her usual height.

  It was so long since she had been anything near the right size,
that it felt quite strange at first; but she got used to it in a
few minutes, and began talking to herself, as usual.  `Come,
there's half my plan done now!  How puzzling all these changes
are!  I'm never sure what I'm going to be, from one minute to
another!  However, I've got back to my right size:  the next
thing is, to get into that beautiful garden--how IS that to be
done, I wondVI?'  ZH HSV HZRW GSRH, HSV XZNV HFWWVMOB FKLM ZM
LKVM KOZXV, DRGS Z ORGGOV SLFHV RM RG ZYLFG ULFI UVVG SRTS.
`DSLVEVI OREVH GSVIV,' GSLFTSG ZORXV, `RG'OO MVEVI WL GL XLNV
FKLM GSVN GSRH HRAV:  DSB, R HSLFOW UIRTSGVM GSVN LFG LU GSVRI
DRGH!'  HL HSV YVTZM MRYYORMT ZG GSV IRTSGSZMW YRG ZTZRM, ZMW WRW
MLG EVMGFIV GL TL MVZI GSV SLFHV GROO HSV SZW YILFTSG SVIHVOU
WLDM GL MRMV RMXSVH SRTS.



