natural right of an author so much as it has accepted the notion of the
public good and the desirability of incentives to promote it.  This state
of affairs, however, has created strains on the international level and
is the reason for several of the differences in the laws that we have.
Today the United States protects almost every kind of work that can be
called an expression of an author.  The standard for gaining copyright
protection is simply originality.  This is a low standard and means that
a work is not copied from something else, as well as shows a certain
minimal amount of authorship.  One can also acquire copyright protection
for making a new version of preexisting material, provided it manifests
some spark of creativity.

However, copyright does not protect ideas, methods, systems--only the way
that one expresses those things.  Nor does copyright protect anything
that is mechanical, anything that does not involve choice, or criteria
concerning whether or not one should do a thing.  For example, the
results of a process called declicking, in which one mechanically removes
impure sounds from old recordings, are not copyrightable.  On the other
hand, the choice to record a song digitally and GL RMXIVZHV GSV HLFMW LU
ERLORMH LI GL YIRMT FK GSV GBNKZMR XLMHGRGFGVH GSV IVHFOGH LU XLMEVIHRLM
GSZG ZIV XLKBIRTSGZYOV.  NLIVLEVI, RU Z DLIP RH KILGVXGVW YB XLKBIRTSG RM
GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH, LMV TVMVIZOOB MVVWH GSV KVINRHHRLM LU GSV XLKBIRTSG
LDMVI GL XLMEVIG RG.  MLINZOOB, DSL DROO LDM GSV MVD--GSZG RH, XLMEVIGVW-
-NZGVIRZO RH Z NZGGVI LU XLMGIZXG.  RM GSV ZYHVMXV LU Z XLMGIZXG, GSV
KVIHLM DSL XIVZGVH GSV MVD NZGVIRZO RH GSV ZFGSLI ZMW LDMVI.  YFG KVLKOV
WL MLG TVMVIZOOB GSRMP ZYLFG GSV XLKBIRTSG RNKORXZGRLMH FMGRO ZUGVI GSV
UZXG.  KVGVIH HGIVHHVW GSV MVVW DSVM WVZORMT DRGS XLKBIRTSGVW DLIPH GL
GSRMP ZYLFG XLKBIRTSG RM ZWEZMXV.  LMV'H YZITZRMRMT KLDVI RH NFXS TIVZGVI
FK UILMG GSZM RG RH WLDM GSV ILZW.

KVGVIH MVCG WRHXFHHVW DLIPH MLG KILGVXGVW YB XLKBIRTSG, ULI VCZNKOV, ZMB
DLIP WLMV YB Z UVWVIZO VNKOLBVV ZH KZIG LU SRH LI SVI LUURXRZO WFGRVH RH
RM GSV KFYORX WLNZRM RM GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH.  GSV RHHFV RH MLG DSLOOB UIVV
LU WLFYG XLMXVIMRMT DSVGSVI LI MLG GSV DLIP RH RM GSV KFYORX WLNZRM
