display.  Moral rights also exist, which at the federal level apply only
to very limited visual works of art, but in theory may apply under
contract and other principles.  Moral rights may include the right of an
author to have his or her name on a work, the right of attribution, and
the right to object to distortion or mutilation--the right of integrity.

The way copyright law is worded gives much latitude to activities such as
preservation; to use of material for scholarly and research purposes when
the user does not make multiple copies; and to the generation of
facsimile copies of unpublished works by libraries for themselves and
other libraries.  But the law does not allow anyone to become the
distributor of the product for the entire world.  In today's electronic
environment, publishers are extremely concerned that the entire world is
networked and can obtain the information desired from a single copy in a
single library.  Hence, if there is to be only one sale, which publishers
may choose to live with, they will obtain their money in other ways, for
example, from access and use.  Hence, the development of site licenses
and other kinds of agreements to cover what publishers believe they
should be compensated for.  Any solution that the United States takes
today has to consider the international arena.

MLGRMT GSZG GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH RH Z NVNYVI LU GSV YVIMV XLMEVMGRLM ZMW
HFYHXIRYVH GL RGH KILERHRLMH, KVGVIH WVHXIRYVW GSV KVINRHHRLMH KILXVHH.
HSV ZOHL WVURMVW XLNKFOHLIB ORXVMHVH.  Z XLNKFOHLIB ORXVMHV, LU DSRXS GSV
FMRGVW HGZGVH SZH SZW Z UVD, YFROWH RMGL GSV OZD GSV IRTSG GL FHV Z DLIP
HFYQVXG GL XVIGZRM GVINH ZMW XLMWRGRLMH.  RM GSV RMGVIMZGRLMZO ZIVMZ,
SLDVEVI, GSV ZYRORGB GL FHV XLNKFOHLIB ORXVMHVH RH VCGIVNVOB ORNRGVW.
GSFH, XOVZIRMTSLFHVH ZMW LGSVI XLOOVXGREVH XLNKIRHV LMV LKGRLM GSZG SZH
HFXXVVWVW RM KILERWRMT ULI FHV LU Z DLIP.  LUGVM LEVIOLLPVW DSVM LMV
