  `We indeed!' cried the Mouse, who was trembling down to the end
of his tail.  `As if I would talk on such a subject!  Our family
always HATED cats:  nasty, low, vulgar things!  Don't let me hear
the name again!'

  `I won't indeed!' said Alice, in a great hurry to change the
subject of conversation.  `Are you--are you fond--of--of dogs?'
The Mouse did not answer, so Alice went on eagerly:  `There is
such a nice little dog near our house I should like to show you!
A little bright-eyed terrier, you know, with oh, such long curly
brown hair!  And it'll fetch things when you throw them, and
it'll sit up and beg for its dinner, and all sorts of things--I
can't remember half of them--and it belongs to a farmer, you
know, and he says it's so useful, it's worth a hundred pounds!
He says it kills all the rats and--oh dear!' cried Alice in a
sorrowful tone, `I'm afraid I've offended it again!'  For the
Mouse was swimming away from her as hard as it could go, and
making quite a commotion in the pool as it went.

  So she called softly after it, `Mouse dear!  Do come back
again, and we won't talk about cats or dogs either, if you don't
like them!'  When the Mouse heard this, it turned round and swam
slowly back to her:  its face was quite pale (with passion, Alice
thought), and it said in a low trembling voice, `Let us get to
the shore, and then I'll tell you my history, and you'll
understand why it is I hate cats and dogs.'

  It was high time to go, for the pool was getting quite crowded
with the birds and animals that had fallen into it:  there were a
Duck and a Dodo, a Lory and an Eaglet, and several other curious
creatures.  Alice led the way, and the whole party swam to the
shore.



                           CHAPTER III

                  A Caucus-Race and a Long Tale


  They were indeed a queer-looking party that assembled on the
bank--the birds with draggled feathers, the animals with their
fur clinging close to them, and all dripping wet, cross, and
uncomfortable.

  The first question of course was, how to get dry again:  they
had a consultation about this, and after a few minutes it seemed
quite natural to Alice to find herself talking familiarly with
them, as if she had known them all her life.  Indeed, she had
quite a long argument with the Lory, who at last turned sulky,
and would only say, `I am older than you, and must know better';
and this Alice would not allow without knowing how old it was,
and, as the Lory positively refused to tell its age, there was no
more to be said.

  At last the Mouse, who seemed to be a person of authority among
them, called out, `Sit down, all of you, and listen to me!  I'LL
soon make you dry enough!'  They all sat down at once, in a large
ring, with the Mouse in the middle.  Alice kept her eyes
anxiously fixed on it, for she felt sure she would catch a bad
cold if she did not get dry very soon.

  `Ahem!' said the Mouse with an important air, `are you all ready?
This is the driest thing I know.  Silence all round, if you please!
"William the Conqueror, whose cause was favoured by the pope, was
soon submitted to by the English, who wanted leaders, and had been
of late much accustomed to usurpation and conquest.  Edwin and
Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria--"'

  `Ugh!' said the Lory, with a shiver.

  `I beg your pardon!' said the Mouse, frowning, but very
politely:  `Did you speak?'

  `Not I!' said the Lory hastily.

  `I thought you did,' said the Mouse.  `--I proceed.  "Edwin and
Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria, declared for him:
and even Stigand, the patriotic archbishop of Canterbury, found
it advisable--"'

  `Found WHAT?' said the Duck.

  `Found IT,' the Mouse replied rather crossly:  `of course you
know what "it" means.'

  `I know what "it" means well enough, when I find a thing,' said
the Duck:  `it's generally a frog or a worm.  The question is,
what did the archbishop find?'

  The Mouse did not notice this question, but hurriedly went on,
`"--found it advisable to go with Edgar Atheling to meet William
and offer him the crown.  William's conduct at first was
moderate.  But the insolence of his Normans--"  How are you
getting on now, my dear?' it continued, turning to Alice as it
spoke.

  `As wet as ever,' said Alice in a melancholy tone:  `it doesn't
seem to dry me at all.'

  `In that case,' said the Dodo solemnly, rising to its feet, `I
move that the meeting adjourn, for the immediate adoption of more
energetic remedies--'

  `Speak English!' said the Eaglet.  `I don't know the meaning of
half those long words, and, what's more, I don't believe you do
either!'  And the Eaglet bent down its head to hide a smile:
some of the other birds tittered audibly.

  `What I was going to say,' said the Dodo in an offended tone,
`was, that the best thing to get us dry would be a Caucus-race.'

  `What IS a Caucus-race?' said Alice; not that she wanted much
to know, but the Dodo had paused as if it thought that SOMEBODY
ought to speak, and no one else seemed inclined to say anything.

  `Why,' said the Dodo, `the best way to explain it is to do it.'
(And, as you might like to try the thing yourself, some winter
day, I will tell you how the Dodo managed it.)

  First it marked out a race-course, in a sort of circle, (`the
exact shape doesn't matter,' it said,) and then all the party
were placed along the course, here and there.  There was no `One,
two, three, and away,' but they began running when they liked,
and left off when they liked, so that it was not easy to know
when the race was over.  However, when they had been running half
an hour or so, and were quite dry again, the Dodo suddenly called
out `The race is over!' and they all crowded round it, panting,
and asking, `But who has won?'

  This question the Dodo could not answer without a great deal of
thought, and it sat for a long time with one finger pressed upon
its forehead (the position in which you usually see Shakespeare,
in the pictures of him), while the rest waited in silence.  At
last the Dodo said, `EVERYBODY has won, and all must have
prizes.'

  `But who is to give the prizes?' quite a chorus of voices
asked.

  `Why, SHE, of course,' said the Dodo, pointing to Alice with
one finger; and the whole party at once crowded round her,
calling out in a confused way, `Prizes! Prizes!'

  Alice had no idea what to do, and in despair she put her hand
in her pocket, and pulled out a box of comfits, (luckily the salt
water had not got into it), and handed them round as prizes.
There was exactly one a-piece all round.

  `But she must have a prize herself, you know,' said the Mouse.

  `Of course,' the Dodo replied very gravely.  `What else have
you got in your pocket?' he went on, turning to Alice.

  `Only a thimble,' said Alice sadly.

  `Hand it over here,' said the Dodo.

  Then they all crowded round her once more, while the Dodo
solemnly presented the thimble, saying `We beg your acceptance of
this elegant thimble'; and, when it had finished this short
speech, they all cheered.

  Alice thought the whole thing very absurd, but they all looked
so grave that she did not dare to laugh; and, as she could not
think of anything to say, she simply bowed, and took the thimble,
looking as solemn as she could.

  The next thing was to eat the comfits:  this caused some noise
and confusion, as the large birds complained that they could not
taste theirs, and the small ones choked and had to be patted on
the back.  However, it was over at last, and they sat down again
in a ring, and begged the Mouse to tell them something more.

  `You promised to tell me your history, you know,' said Alice,
`and why it is you hate--C and D,' she added in a whisper, half
afraid that it would be offended again.

  `Mine is a long and a sad tale!' said the Mouse, turning to
Alice, and sighing.

  `It IS a long tail, certainly,' said Alice, looking down with
wonder at the Mouse's tail; `but why do you call it sad?'  And
she kept on puzzling about it while the Mouse was speaking, so
that her idea of the tale was something like this:--

                    `Fury said to a
                   mouse, That he
                 met in the
               house,
            "Let us
              both go to
                law:  I will
                  prosecute
                    YOU.  --Come,
                       I'll take no
                        denial; We
                     must have a
                 trial:  For
              really this
           morning I've
          nothing
         to do."
           Said the
             mouse to the
               cur, "Such
                 a trial,
                   dear Sir,
                         With
                     no jury
                  or judge,
                would be
              wasting
             our
              breath."
               "I'll be
                 judge, I'll
                   be jury,"
                         Said
                    cunning
                      old Fury:
                     "I'll
                      try the
                         whole
                          cause,
                             and
                        condemn
                       you
                      to
                       death."'


  `You are not attending!' said the Mouse to Alice severely.
`What are you thinking of?'

  `I beg your pardon,' said Alice very humbly:  `you had got to
the fifth bend, I think?'

  `I had NOT!' cried the Mouse, sharply and very angrily.

  `A knot!' said Alice, always ready to make herself useful, and
looking anxiously about her.  `Oh, do let me help to undo it!'

  `I shall do nothing of the sort,' said the Mouse, getting up
and walking away.  `You insult me by talking such nonsense!'

  `I didn't mean it!' pleaded poor Alice.  `But you're so easily
offended, you know!'

  The Mouse only growled in reply.

  `Please come back and finish your story!' Alice called after
it; and the others all joined in chorus, `Yes, please do!' but
the Mouse only shook its head impatiently, and walked a little
quicker.

  `What a pity it wouldn't stay!' sighed the Lory, as soon as it
was quite out of sight; and an old Crab took the opportunity of
saying to her daughter `Ah, my dear!  Let this be a lesson to you
never to lose YOUR temper!'  `Hold your tongue, Ma!' said the
young Crab, a little snappishly.  `You're enough to try the
patience of an oyster!'

  `I wish I had our Dinah here, I know I do!' said Alice aloud,
addressing nobody in particular.  `She'd soon fetch it back!'

  `And who is Dinah, if I might venture to ask the question?'
said the Lory.

  Alice replied eagerly, for she was always ready to talk about
her pet:  `Dinah's our cat.  And she's such a capital one for
catching mice you can't think!  And oh, I wish you could see her
after the birds!  Why, she'll eat a little bird as soon as look
at it!'

  This speech caused a remarkable sensation among the party.
Some of the birds hurried off at once:  one the old Magpie began
wrapping itself up very carefully, remarking, `I really must be
getting home; the night-air doesn't suit my throat!' and a Canary
called out in a trembling voice to its children, `Come away, my
dears!  It's high time you were all in bed!'  On various pretexts
they all moved off, and Alice was soon left alone.

  `I wish I hadn't mentioned Dinah!' she said to herself in a
melancholy tone.  `Nobody seems to like her, down here, and I'm
sure she's the best cat in the world!  Oh, my dear Dinah!  I
wonder if I shall ever see you any more!'  And here poor Alice
began to cry again, for she felt very lonely and low-spirited.
In a little while, however, she again heard a little pattering of
footsteps in the distance, and she looked up eagerly, half hoping
that the Mouse had changed his mind, and was coming back to
finish his story.



                           CHAPTER IV

                The Rabbit Sends in a Little Bill


  It was the White Rabbit, trotting slowly back again, and
looking anxiously about as it went, as if it had lost something;
and she heard it muttering to itself `The Duchess!  The Duchess!
Oh my dear paws!  Oh my fur and whiskers!  She'll get me
executed, as sure as ferrets are ferrets!  Where CAN I have
dropped them, I wonder?'  Alice guessed in a moment that it was
looking for the fan and the pair of white kid gloves, and she
very good-naturedly began hunting about for them, but they were
nowhere to be seen--everything seemed to have changed since her
swim in the pool, and the great hall, with the glass table and
the little door, had vanished completely.

  Very soon the Rabbit noticed Alice, as she went hunting about,
and called out to her in an angry tone, `Why, Mary Ann, what ARE
you doing out here?  Run home this moment, and fetch me a pair of
gloves and a fan!  Quick, now!'  And Alice was so much frightened
that she ran off at once in the direction it pointed to, without
trying to explain the mistake it had made.

  `He took me for his housemaid,' she said to herself as she ran.
`How surprised he'll be when he finds out who I am!  But I'd
better take him his fan and gloves--that is, if I can find them.'
As she said this, she came upon a neat little house, on the door
of which was a bright brass plate with the name `W. RABBIT'
engraved upon it.  She went in without knocking, and hurried
upstairs, in great fear lest she should meet the real Mary Ann,
and be turned out of the house before she had found the fan and
gloves.

  `How queer it seems,' Alice said to herself, `to be going
messages for a rabbit!  I suppose Dinah'll be sending me on
messages next!'  And she began fancying the sort of thing that
would happen:  `"Miss Alice!  Come here directly, and get ready
for your walk!" "Coming in a minute, nurse!  But I've got to see
that the mouse doesn't get out."  Only I don't think,' Alice went
on, `that they'd let Dinah stop in the house if it began ordering
people about like that!'

  By this time she had found her way into a tidy little room with
a table in the window, and on it (as she had hoped) a fan and two
or three pairs of tiny white kid gloves:  she took up the fan and
a pair of the gloves, and was just going to leave the room, when
her eye fell upon a little bottle that stood near the looking-
glass.  There was no label this time with the words `DRINK ME,'
but nevertheless she uncorked it and put it to her lips.  `I know
SOMETHING interesting is sure to happen,' she said to herself,
`whenever I eat or drink anything; so I'll just see what this
bottle does.  I do hope it'll make me grow large again, for
really I'm quite tired of being such a tiny little thing!'

  It did so indeed, and much sooner than she had expected:
before she had drunk half the bottle, she found her head pressing
against the ceiling, and had to stoop to save her neck from being
broken.  She hastily put down the bottle, saying to herself
`That's quite enough--I hope I shan't grow any more--As it is, I
can't get out at the door--I do wish I hadn't drunk quite so
much!'

  Alas! it was too late to wish that!  She went on growing, and
growing, and very soon had to kneel down on the floor:  in
another minute there was not even room for this, and she tried
the effect of lying down with one elbow against the door, and the
other arm curled round her head.  Still she went on growing, and,
as a last resource, she put one arm out of the window, and one
foot up the chimney, and said to herself `Now I can do no more,
whatever happens.  What WILL become of me?'

  Luckily for Alice, the little magic bottle had now had its full
effect, and she grew no larger:  still it was very uncomfortable,
and, as there seemed to be no sort of chance of her ever getting
out of the room again, no wonder she felt unhappy.

  `It was much pleasanter at home,' thought poor AlicV, `DSVM LMV
DZHM'G ZODZBH TILDRMT OZITVI ZMW HNZOOVI, ZMW YVRMT LIWVIVW ZYLFG
YB NRXV ZMW IZYYRGH.  R ZONLHG DRHS R SZWM'G TLMV WLDM GSZG
IZYYRG-SLOV--ZMW BVG--ZMW BVG--RG'H IZGSVI XFIRLFH, BLF PMLD,
GSRH HLIG LU ORUV!  R WL DLMWVI DSZG XZM SZEV SZKKVMVW GL NV!
DSVM R FHVW GL IVZW UZRIB-GZOVH, R UZMXRVW GSZG PRMW LU GSRMT
MVEVI SZKKVMVW, ZMW MLD SVIV R ZN RM GSV NRWWOV LU LMV!  GSVIV
LFTSG GL YV Z YLLP DIRGGVM ZYLFG NV, GSZG GSVIV LFTSG!  ZMW DSVM
R TILD FK, R'OO DIRGV LMV--YFG R'N TILDM FK MLD,' HSV ZWWVW RM Z
HLIILDUFO GLMV; `ZG OVZHG GSVIV'H ML ILLN GL TILD FK ZMB NLIV
SVIV.'

  `YFG GSVM,' GSLFTSG ZORXV, `HSZOO R MVEVI TVG ZMB LOWVI GSZM R
ZN MLD?  GSZG'OO YV Z XLNULIG, LMV DZB--MVEVI GL YV ZM LOW DLNZM-
-YFG GSVM--ZODZBH GL SZEV OVHHLMH GL OVZIM!  LS, R HSLFOWM'G ORPV
GSZG!'

  `LS, BLF ULLORHS ZORXV!' HSV ZMHDVIVW SVIHVOU.  `SLD XZM BLF
OVZIM OVHHLMH RM SVIV?  DSB, GSVIV'H SZIWOB ILLN ULI BLF, ZMW ML
ILLN ZG ZOO ULI ZMB OVHHLM-YLLPH!'

  ZMW HL HSV DVMG LM, GZPRMT URIHG LMV HRWV ZMW GSVM GSV LGSVI,
ZMW NZPRMT JFRGV Z XLMEVIHZGRLM LU RG ZOGLTVGSVI; YFG ZUGVI Z UVD
NRMFGVH HSV SVZIW Z ELRXV LFGHRWV, ZMW HGLKKVW GL ORHGVM.

  `NZIB ZMM!  NZIB ZMM!' HZRW GSV ELRXV.  `UVGXS NV NB TOLEVH
GSRH NLNVMG!'  GSVM XZNV Z ORGGOV KZGGVIRMT LU UVVG LM GSV
HGZRIH.  ZORXV PMVD RG DZH GSV IZYYRG XLNRMT GL OLLP ULI SVI, ZMW
HSV GIVNYOVW GROO HSV HSLLP GSV SLFHV, JFRGV ULITVGGRMT GSZG HSV
DZH MLD ZYLFG Z GSLFHZMW GRNVH ZH OZITV ZH GSV IZYYRG, ZMW SZW ML
IVZHLM GL YV ZUIZRW LU RG.

  KIVHVMGOB GSV IZYYRG XZNV FK GL GSV WLLI, ZMW GIRVW GL LKVM RG;
YFG, ZH GSV WLLI LKVMVW RMDZIWH, ZMW ZORXV'H VOYLD DZH KIVHHVW
SZIW ZTZRMHG RG, GSZG ZGGVNKG KILEVW Z UZROFIV.  ZORXV SVZIW RG
HZB GL RGHVOU `GSVM R'OO TL ILFMW ZMW TVG RM ZG GSV DRMWLD.'

  `GSZG BLF DLM'G' GSLFTSG ZORXV, ZMW, ZUGVI DZRGRMT GROO HSV
UZMXRVW HSV SVZIW GSV IZYYRG QFHG FMWVI GSV DRMWLD, HSV HFWWVMOB
HKIVZW LFG SVI SZMW, ZMW NZWV Z HMZGXS RM GSV ZRI.  HSV WRW MLG
TVG SLOW LU ZMBGSRMT, YFG HSV SVZIW Z ORGGOV HSIRVP ZMW Z UZOO,
ZMW Z XIZHS LU YILPVM TOZHH, UILN DSRXS HSV XLMXOFWVW GSZG RG DZH
QFHG KLHHRYOV RG SZW UZOOVM RMGL Z XFXFNYVI-UIZNV, LI HLNVGSRMT
LU GSV HLIG.

  MVCG XZNV ZM ZMTIB ELRXV--GSV IZYYRG'H--`KZG! KZG!  DSVIV ZIV
BLF?'  ZMW GSVM Z ELRXV HSV SZW MVEVI SVZIW YVULIV, `HFIV GSVM
R'N SVIV!  WRTTRMT ULI ZKKOVH, BVI SLMLFI!'

  `WRTTRMT ULI ZKKOVH, RMWVVW!' HZRW GSV IZYYRG ZMTIROB.  `SVIV!
XLNV ZMW SVOK NV LFG LU GSRH!'  (HLFMWH LU NLIV YILPVM TOZHH.)

  `MLD GVOO NV, KZG, DSZG'H GSZG RM GSV DRMWLD?'

  `HFIV, RG'H ZM ZIN, BVI SLMLFI!'  (SV KILMLFMXVW RG `ZIIFN.')

  `ZM ZIN, BLF TLLHV!   DSL VEVI HZD LMV GSZG HRAV?  DSB, RG
UROOH GSV DSLOV DRMWLD!'

  `HFIV, RG WLVH, BVI SLMLFI:  YFG RG'H ZM ZIN ULI ZOO GSZG.'

  `DVOO, RG'H TLG ML YFHRMVHH GSVIV, ZG ZMB IZGV:  TL ZMW GZPV RG
ZDZB!'

  GSVIV DZH Z OLMT HROVMXV ZUGVI GSRH, ZMW ZORXV XLFOW LMOB SVZI
DSRHKVIH MLD ZMW GSVM; HFXS ZH, `HFIV, R WLM'G ORPV RG, BVI
SLMLFI, ZG ZOO, ZG ZOO!'  `WL ZH R GVOO BLF, BLF XLDZIW!' ZMW ZG
OZHG HSV HKIVZW LFG SVI SZMW ZTZRM, ZMW NZWV ZMLGSVI HMZGXS RM
GSV ZRI.  GSRH GRNV GSVIV DVIV GDL ORGGOV HSIRVPH, ZMW NLIV
HLFMWH LU YILPVM TOZHH.  `DSZG Z MFNYVI LU XFXFNYVI-UIZNVH GSVIV
NFHG YV!' GSLFTSG ZORXV.  `R DLMWVI DSZG GSVB'OO WL MVCG!  ZH ULI
KFOORMT NV LFG LU GSV DRMWLD, R LMOB DRHS GSVB XLFOW!  R'N HFIV R
WLM'G DZMG GL HGZB RM SVIV ZMB OLMTVI!'

  HSV DZRGVW ULI HLNV GRNV DRGSLFG SVZIRMT ZMBGSRMT NLIV:  ZG
OZHG XZNV Z IFNYORMT LU ORGGOV XZIGDSVVOH, ZMW GSV HLFMW LU Z
TLLW NZMB ELRXV ZOO GZOPRMT GLTVGSVI:  HSV NZWV LFG GSV DLIWH:
`DSVIV'H GSV LGSVI OZWWVI?--DSB, R SZWM'G GL YIRMT YFG LMV;
YROO'H TLG GSV LGSVI--YROO! UVGXS RG SVIV, OZW!--SVIV, KFG 'VN FK
ZG GSRH XLIMVI--ML, GRV 'VN GLTVGSVI URIHG--GSVB WLM'G IVZXS SZOU
SRTS VMLFTS BVG--LS! GSVB'OO WL DVOO VMLFTS; WLM'G YV KZIGRXFOZI-
-SVIV, YROO! XZGXS SLOW LU GSRH ILKV--DROO GSV ILLU YVZI?--NRMW
GSZG OLLHV HOZGV--LS, RG'H XLNRMT WLDM!  SVZWH YVOLD!' (Z OLFW
XIZHS)--`MLD, DSL WRW GSZG?--RG DZH YROO, R UZMXB--DSL'H GL TL
