
  There was certainly too much of it in the air.  Even the
Duchess sneezed occasionally; and as for the baby, it was
sneezing and howling alternately without a moment's pause.  The
only things in the kitchen that did not sneeze, were the cook,
and a large cat which was sitting on the hearth and grinning from
ear to ear.

  `Please would you tell me,' said Alice, a little timidly, for
she was not quite sure whether it was good manners for her to
speak first, `why your cat grins like that?'

  `It's a Cheshire cat,' said the Duchess, `and that's why.
Pig!'

  She said the last word with such sudden violence that Alice
quite jumped; but she saw in another moment that it was addressed
to the baby, and not to her, so she took courage, and went on
again:--

  `I didn't know that Cheshire cats always grinned; in fact, I
didn't know that cats COULD grin.'

  `They all can,' said the Duchess; `and most of 'em do.'

  `I don't know of any that do,' Alice said very politely,
feeling quite pleased to have got into a conversation.

  `You don't know much,' said the Duchess; `and that's a fact.'

  Alice did not at all like the tone of this remark, and thought
it would be as well to introduce some other subject of
conversation.  While she was trying to fix on one, the cook took
the cauldron of soup off the fire, and at once set to work
throwing everything within her reach at the Duchess and the baby
--the fire-irons came first; then followed a shower of saucepans,
plates, and dishes.  The Duchess took no notice of them even when
they hit her; and the baby was howling so much already, that it
was quite impossible to say whether the blows hurt it or not.

  `Oh, PLEASE mind what you're doing!' cried Alice, jumping up
and down in an agony of terror.  `Oh, there goes his PRECIOUS
nose'; as an unusually large saucepan flew close by it, and very
nearly carried it off.

  `If everybody minded their own business,' the Duchess said in a
hoarse growl, `the world would go round a deal faster than it
does.'

  `Which would NOT be an advantage,' said Alice, who felt very
glad to get an opportunity of showing off a little of her
knowledge.  `Just think of what work it would make with the day
and night!  You see the earth takes twenty-four hours to turn
round on its axis--'

  `Talking of axes,' said the Duchess, `chop off her head!'

  Alice glanced rather anxiously at the cook, to see if she meant
to take the hint; but the cook was busily stirring the soup, and
seemed not to be listening, so she went on again:  `Twenty-four
hours, I THINK; or is it twelve?  I--'

  `Oh, don't bother ME,' said the Duchess; `I never could abide
figures!'  And with that she began nursing her child again,
singing a sort of lullaby to it as she did so, and giving it a
violent shake at the end of every line:

        `Speak roughly to your little boy,
          And beat him when he sneezes:
        He only does it to annoy,
          Because he knows it teases.'

                    CHORUS.

    (In which the cook and the baby joined):--

                `Wow! wow! wow!'

  While the Duchess sang the second verse of the song, she kept
tossing the baby violently up and down, and the poor little thing
howled so, that Alice could hardly hear the words:--

        `I speak severely to my boy,
          I beat him when he sneezes;
        For he can thoroughly enjoy
          The pepper when he pleases!'

                    CHORUS.

                `Wow! wow! wow!'

  `Here! you may nurse it a bit, if you like!' the Duchess said
to Alice, flinging the baby at her as she spoke.  `I must go and
get ready to play croquet with the Queen,' and she hurried out of
the room.  The cook threw a frying-pan after her as she went out,
but it just missed her.

  Alice caught the baby with some difficulty, as it was a queer-
shaped little creature, and held out its arms and legs in all
directions, `just like a star-fish,' thought Alice.  The poor
little thing was snorting like a steam-engine when she caught it,
and kept doubling itself up and straightening itself out again,
so that altogether, for the first minute or two, it was as much
as she could do to hold it.

  As soon as she had made out the proper way of nursing it,
(which was to twist it up into a sort of knot, and then keep
tight hold of its right ear and left foot, so as to prevent its
undoing itself,) she carried it out into the open air.  `IF I
don't take this child away with me,' thought Alice, `they're sure
to kill it in a day or two:  wouldn't it be murder to leave it
behind?'  She said the last words out loud, and the little thing
grunted in reply (it had left off sneezing by this time).  `Don't
grunt,' said Alice; `that's not at all a proper way of expressing
yourself.'

  The baby grunted again, and Alice looked very anxiously into
its face to see what was the matter with it.  There could be no
doubt that it had a VERY turn-up nose, much more like a snout
than a real nose; also its eyes were getting extremely small for
a baby:  altogether Alice did not like the look of the thing at
all.  `But perhaps it was only sobbing,' she thought, and looked
into its eyes again, to see if there were any tears.

  No, there were no tears.  `If you're going to turn into a pig,
my dear,' said Alice, seriously, `I'll have nothing more to do
with you.  Mind now!'  The poor little thing sobbed again (or
grunted, it was impossible to say which), and they went on for
some while in silence.

  Alice was just beginning to think to herself, `Now, what am I
to do with this creature when I get it home?' when it grunted
again, so violently, that she looked down into its face in some
alarm.  This time there could be NO mistake about it:  it was
neither more nor less than a pig, and she felt that it would be
quite absurd for her to carry it further.

  So she set the little creature down, and felt quite relieved to
see it trot away quietly into the wood.  `If it had grown up,'
she said to herself, `it would have made a dreadfully ugly child:
but it makes rather a handsome pig, I think.'  And she began
thinking over other children she knew, who might do very well as
pigs, and was just saying to herself, `if one only knew the right
way to change them--' when she was a little startled by seeing
the Cheshire Cat sitting on a bough of a tree a few yards off.

  The Cat only grinned when it saw Alice.  It looked good-
natured, she thought:  still it had VERY long claws and a great
many teeth, so she felt that it ought to be treated with respect.

  `Cheshire Puss,' she began, rather timidly, as she did not at
all know whether it would like the name:  however, it only
grinned a little wider.  `Come, it's pleased so far,' thought
Alice, and she went on.  `Would you tell me, please, which way I
ought to go from here?'

  `That depends a good deal on where you want to get to,' said
the Cat.

  `I don't much care where--' said Alice.

  `Then it doesn't matter which way you go,' said the Cat.

  `--so long as I get SOMEWHERE,' Alice added as an explanation.

  `Oh, you're sure to do that,' said the Cat, `if you only walk
long enough.'

  Alice felt that this could not be denied, so she tried another
question.  `What sort of people live about here?'

  `In THAT direction,' the Cat said, waving its right paw round,
`lives a Hatter:  and in THAT direction,' waving the other paw,
`lives a March Hare.  Visit either you like:  they're both mad.'

  `But I don't want to go among mad people,' Alice remarked.

  `Oh, you can't help that,' said the Cat:  `we're all mad here.
I'm mad.  You're mad.'

  `How do you know I'm mad?' said Alice.

  `You must be,' said the Cat, `or you wouldn't have come here.'

  Alice didn't think that proved it at all; however, she went on
`And how do you know that you're mad?'

  `To begin with,' said the Cat, `a dog's not mad.  You grant
that?'

  `I suppose so,' said Alice.

  `Well, then,' the Cat went on, `you see, a dog growls when it's
angry, and wags its tail when it's pleased.  Now I growl when I'm
pleased, and wag my tail when I'm angry.  Therefore I'm mad.'

  `I call it purring, not growling,' said Alice.

  `Call it what you like,' said the Cat.  `Do you play croquet
with the Queen to-day?'

  `I should like it very much,' said Alice, `but I haven't been
invited yet.'

  `You'll see me there,' said the Cat, and vanished.

  Alice was not much surprised at this, she was getting so used
to queer things happening.  While she was looking at the place
where it had been, it suddenly appeared again.

  `By-the-bye, what became of the baby?' said the Cat.  `I'd
nearly forgotten to ask.'

  `It turned into a pig,' Alice quietly said, just as if it had
come back in a natural way.

  `I thought it would,' said the Cat, and vanished again.

  Alice waited a little, half expecting to see it again, but it
did not appear, and after a minute or two she walked on in the
direction in which the March Hare was said to live.  `I've seen
hatters before,' she said to herself; `the March Hare will be
much the most interesting, and perhaps as this is May it won't be
raving mad--at least not so mad as it was in March.'  As she said
this, she looked up, and there was the Cat again, sitting on a
branch of a tree.

  `Did you say pig, or fig?' said the Cat.

  `I said pig,' replied Alice; `and I wish you wouldn't keep
appearing and vanishing so suddenly:  you make one quite giddy.'

  `All right,' said the Cat; and this time it vanished quite
slowly, beginning with the end of the tail, and ending with the
grin, which remained some time after the rest of it had gone.

  `Well!  I've often seen a cat without a grin,' thought Alice;
`but a grin without a cat!  It's the most curious thing I ever
say in my life!'

  She had not gone much farther before she came in sight of the
house of the March Hare:  she thought it must be the right house,
because the chimneys were shaped like ears and the roof was
thatched with fur.  It was so large a house, that she did not
like to go nearer till she had nibbled some more of the lefthand
bit of mushroom, and raised herself to about two feet high:  even
then she walked up towards it rather timidly, saying to herself
`Suppose it should be raving mad after all!  I almost wish I'd
gone to see the Hatter instead!'



                           CHAPTER VII

                         A Mad Tea-Party


  There was a table set out under a tree in front of the house,
and the March Hare and the Hatter were having tea at it:  a
Dormouse was sitting between them, fast asleep, and the other two
were using it as a cushion, resting their elbows on it, and the
talking over its head.  `Very uncomfortable for the Dormouse,'
thought Alice; `only, as it's asleep, I sFKKLHV RG WLVHM'G NRMW.'

  GSV GZYOV DZH Z OZITV LMV, YFG GSV GSIVV DVIV ZOO XILDWVW
GLTVGSVI ZG LMV XLIMVI LU RG:  `ML ILLN!  ML ILLN!' GSVB XIRVW
LFG DSVM GSVB HZD ZORXV XLNRMT.  `GSVIV'H KOVMGB LU ILLN!' HZRW
ZORXV RMWRTMZMGOB, ZMW HSV HZG WLDM RM Z OZITV ZIN-XSZRI ZG LMV
VMW LU GSV GZYOV.

  `SZEV HLNV DRMV,' GSV NZIXS SZIV HZRW RM ZM VMXLFIZTRMT GLMV.

  ZORXV OLLPVW ZOO ILFMW GSV GZYOV, YFG GSVIV DZH MLGSRMT LM RG
YFG GVZ.  `R WLM'G HVV ZMB DRMV,' HSV IVNZIPVW.

  `GSVIV RHM'G ZMB,' HZRW GSV NZIXS SZIV.

  `GSVM RG DZHM'G EVIB XRERO LU BLF GL LUUVI RG,' HZRW ZORXV
ZMTIROB.

  `RG DZHM'G EVIB XRERO LU BLF GL HRG WLDM DRGSLFG YVRMT
RMERGVW,' HZRW GSV NZIXS SZIV.

  `R WRWM'G PMLD RG DZH BLFI GZYOV,' HZRW ZORXV; `RG'H OZRW ULI Z
TIVZG NZMB NLIV GSZM GSIVV.'

  `BLFI SZRI DZMGH XFGGRMT,' HZRW GSV SZGGVI.  SV SZW YVVM
OLLPRMT ZG ZORXV ULI HLNV GRNV DRGS TIVZG XFIRLHRGB, ZMW GSRH DZH
SRH URIHG HKVVXS.

  `BLF HSLFOW OVZIM MLG GL NZPV KVIHLMZO IVNZIPH,' ZORXV HZRW
DRGS HLNV HVEVIRGB; `RG'H EVIB IFWV.'

  GSV SZGGVI LKVMVW SRH VBVH EVIB DRWV LM SVZIRMT GSRH; YFG ZOO
SV HZRW DZH, `DSB RH Z IZEVM ORPV Z DIRGRMT-WVHP?'

  `XLNV, DV HSZOO SZEV HLNV UFM MLD!' GSLFTSG ZORXV.  `R'N TOZW
GSVB'EV YVTFM ZHPRMT IRWWOVH.--R YVORVEV R XZM TFVHH GSZG,' HSV
ZWWVW ZOLFW.

  `WL BLF NVZM GSZG BLF GSRMP BLF XZM URMW LFG GSV ZMHDVI GL RG?'
HZRW GSV NZIXS SZIV.

  `VCZXGOB HL,' HZRW ZORXV.

  `GSVM BLF HSLFOW HZB DSZG BLF NVZM,' GSV NZIXS SZIV DVMG LM.

  `R WL,' ZORXV SZHGROB IVKORVW; `ZG OVZHG--ZG OVZHG R NVZM DSZG
R HZB--GSZG'H GSV HZNV GSRMT, BLF PMLD.'

  `MLG GSV HZNV GSRMT Z YRG!' HZRW GSV SZGGVI.  `BLF NRTSG QFHG
ZH DVOO HZB GSZG "R HVV DSZG R VZG" RH GSV HZNV GSRMT ZH "R VZG
DSZG R HVV"!'

  `BLF NRTSG QFHG ZH DVOO HZB,' ZWWVW GSV NZIXS SZIV, `GSZG "R
ORPV DSZG R TVG" RH GSV HZNV GSRMT ZH "R TVG DSZG R ORPV"!'

  `BLF NRTSG QFHG ZH DVOO HZB,' ZWWVW GSV WLINLFHV, DSL HVVNVW GL
YV GZOPRMT RM SRH HOVVK, `GSZG "R YIVZGSV DSVM R HOVVK" RH GSV
HZNV GSRMT ZH "R HOVVK DSVM R YIVZGSV"!'

  `RG RH GSV HZNV GSRMT DRGS BLF,' HZRW GSV SZGGVI, ZMW SVIV GSV
XLMEVIHZGRLM WILKKVW, ZMW GSV KZIGB HZG HROVMG ULI Z NRMFGV,
DSROV ZORXV GSLFTSG LEVI ZOO HSV XLFOW IVNVNYVI ZYLFG IZEVMH ZMW
DIRGRMT-WVHPH, DSRXS DZHM'G NFXS.

  GSV SZGGVI DZH GSV URIHG GL YIVZP GSV HROVMXV.  `DSZG WZB LU
GSV NLMGS RH RG?' SV HZRW, GFIMRMT GL ZORXV:  SV SZW GZPVM SRH
DZGXS LFG LU SRH KLXPVG, ZMW DZH OLLPRMT ZG RG FMVZHROB, HSZPRMT
RG VEVIB MLD ZMW GSVM, ZMW SLOWRMT RG GL SRH VZI.

  ZORXV XLMHRWVIVW Z ORGGOV, ZMW GSVM HZRW `GSV ULFIGS.'

  `GDL WZBH DILMT!' HRTSVW GSV SZGGVI.  `R GLOW BLF YFGGVI
DLFOWM'G HFRG GSV DLIPH!' SV ZWWVW OLLPRMT ZMTIROB ZG GSV NZIXS
SZIV.

  `RG DZH GSV YVHG YFGGVI,' GSV NZIXS SZIV NVVPOB IVKORVW.

  `BVH, YFG HLNV XIFNYH NFHG SZEV TLG RM ZH DVOO,' GSV SZGGVI
TIFNYOVW:  `BLF HSLFOWM'G SZEV KFG RG RM DRGS GSV YIVZW-PMRUV.'

  GSV NZIXS SZIV GLLP GSV DZGXS ZMW OLLPVW ZG RG TOLLNROB:  GSVM
SV WRKKVW RG RMGL SRH XFK LU GVZ, ZMW OLLPVW ZG RG ZTZRM:  YFG SV
XLFOW GSRMP LU MLGSRMT YVGGVI GL HZB GSZM SRH URIHG IVNZIP, `RG
DZH GSV YVHG YFGGVI, BLF PMLD.'

  ZORXV SZW YVVM OLLPRMT LEVI SRH HSLFOWVI DRGS HLNV XFIRLHRGB.
`DSZG Z UFMMB DZGXS!' HSV IVNZIPVW.  `RG GVOOH GSV WZB LU GSV
NLMGS, ZMW WLVHM'G GVOO DSZG L'XOLXP RG RH!'

  `DSB HSLFOW RG?' NFGGVIVW GSV SZGGVI.  `WLVH BLFI DZGXS GVOO
BLF DSZG BVZI RG RH?'

  `LU XLFIHV MLG,' ZORXV IVKORVW EVIB IVZWROB:  `YFG GSZG'H
YVXZFHV RG HGZBH GSV HZNV BVZI ULI HFXS Z OLMT GRNV GLTVGSVI.'

  `DSRXS RH QFHG GSV XZHV DRGS NRMV,' HZRW GSV SZGGVI.

  ZORXV UVOG WIVZWUFOOB KFAAOVW.  GSV SZGGVI'H IVNZIP HVVNVW GL
SZEV ML HLIG LU NVZMRMT RM RG, ZMW BVG RG DZH XVIGZRMOB VMTORHS.
`R WLM'G JFRGV FMWVIHGZMW BLF,' HSV HZRW, ZH KLORGVOB ZH HSV
XLFOW.

  `GSV WLINLFHV RH ZHOVVK ZTZRM,' HZRW GSV SZGGVI, ZMW SV KLFIVW
Z ORGGOV SLG GVZ FKLM RGH MLHV.

  GSV WLINLFHV HSLLP RGH SVZW RNKZGRVMGOB, ZMW HZRW, DRGSLFG
LKVMRMT RGH VBVH, `LU XLFIHV, LU XLFIHV; QFHG DSZG R DZH TLRMT GL
IVNZIP NBHVOU.'

  `SZEV BLF TFVHHVW GSV IRWWOV BVG?' GSV SZGGVI HZRW, GFIMRMT GL
ZORXV ZTZRM.

  `ML, R TREV RG FK,' ZORXV IVKORVW:  `DSZG'H GSV ZMHDVI?'

  `R SZEVM'G GSV HORTSGVHG RWVZ,' HZRW GSV SZGGVI.

  `MLI R,' HZRW GSV NZIXS SZIV.

  ZORXV HRTSVW DVZIROB.  `R GSRMP BLF NRTSG WL HLNVGSRMT YVGGVI
DRGS GSV GRNV,' HSV HZRW, `GSZM DZHGV RG RM ZHPRMT IRWWOVH GSZG
SZEV ML ZMHDVIH.'

  `RU BLF PMVD GRNV ZH DVOO ZH R WL,' HZRW GSV SZGGVI, `BLF
DLFOWM'G GZOP ZYLFG DZHGRMT RG.  RG'H SRN.'

  `R WLM'G PMLD DSZG BLF NVZM,' HZRW ZORXV.

  `LU XLFIHV BLF WLM'G!' GSV SZGGVI HZRW, GLHHRMT SRH SVZW
XLMGVNKGFLFHOB.  `R WZIV HZB BLF MVEVI VEVM HKLPV GL GRNV!'

  `KVISZKH MLG,' ZORXV XZFGRLFHOB IVKORVW:  `YFG R PMLD R SZEV GL
YVZG GRNV DSVM R OVZIM NFHRX.'

  `ZS! GSZG ZXXLFMGH ULI RG,' HZRW GSV SZGGVI.  `SV DLM'G HGZMW
YVZGRMT.  MLD, RU BLF LMOB PVKG LM TLLW GVINH DRGS SRN, SV'W WL
ZONLHG ZMBGSRMT BLF ORPVW DRGS GSV XOLXP.  ULI RMHGZMXV, HFKKLHV
RG DVIV MRMV L'XOLXP RM GSV NLIMRMT, QFHG GRNV GL YVTRM OVHHLMH:
BLF'W LMOB SZEV GL DSRHKVI Z SRMG GL GRNV, ZMW ILFMW TLVH GSV
XOLXP RM Z GDRMPORMT!  SZOU-KZHG LMV, GRNV ULI WRMMVI!'

  (`R LMOB DRHS RG DZH,' GSV NZIXS SZIV HZRW GL RGHVOU RM Z
DSRHKVI.)

  `GSZG DLFOW YV TIZMW, XVIGZRMOB,' HZRW ZORXV GSLFTSGUFOOB:
`YFG GSVM--R HSLFOWM'G YV SFMTIB ULI RG, BLF PMLD.'

  `MLG ZG URIHG, KVISZKH,' HZRW GSV SZGGVI:  `YFG BLF XLFOW PVVK
RG GL SZOU-KZHG LMV ZH OLMT ZH BLF ORPVW.'

  `RH GSZG GSV DZB BLF NZMZTV?' ZORXV ZHPVW.

  GSV SZGGVI HSLLP SRH SVZW NLFIMUFOOB.  `MLG R!' SV IVKORVW.
`DV JFZIIVOOVW OZHG NZIXS--QFHG YVULIV SV DVMG NZW, BLF PMLD--'
(KLRMGRMT DRGS SRH GVZ HKLLM ZG GSV NZIXS SZIV,) `--RG DZH ZG GSV
TIVZG XLMXVIG TREVM YB GSV JFVVM LU SVZIGH, ZMW R SZW GL HRMT

            "GDRMPOV, GDRMPOV, ORGGOV YZG!
            SLD R DLMWVI DSZG BLF'IV ZG!"

BLF PMLD GSV HLMT, KVISZKH?'

  `R'EV SVZIW HLNVGSRMT ORPV RG,' HZRW ZORXV.

  `RG TLVH LM, BLF PMLD,' GSV SZGGVI XLMGRMFVW, `RM GSRH DZB:--

            "FK ZYLEV GSV DLIOW BLF UOB,
            ORPV Z GVZ-GIZB RM GSV HPB.
                    GDRMPOV, GDRMPOV--"'

SVIV GSV WLINLFHV HSLLP RGHVOU, ZMW YVTZM HRMTRMT RM RGH HOVVK
`GDRMPOV, GDRMPOV, GDRMPOV, GDRMPOV--' ZMW DVMG LM HL OLMT GSZG
GSVB SZW GL KRMXS RG GL NZPV RG HGLK.

  `DVOO, R'W SZIWOB URMRHSVW GSV URIHG EVIHV,' HZRW GSV SZGGVI,
`DSVM GSV JFVVM QFNKVW FK ZMW YZDOVW LFG, "SV'H NFIWVIRMT GSV
GRNV!  LUU DRGS SRH SVZW!"'

  `SLD WIVZWUFOOB HZEZTV!' VCXOZRNVW ZORXV.

  `ZMW VEVI HRMXV GSZG,' GSV SZGGVI DVMG LM RM Z NLFIMUFO GLMV,
`SV DLM'G WL Z GSRMT R ZHP!  RG'H ZODZBH HRC L'XOLXP MLD.'

  Z YIRTSG RWVZ XZNV RMGL ZORXV'H SVZW.  `RH GSZG GSV IVZHLM HL
NZMB GVZ-GSRMTH ZIV KFG LFG SVIV?' HSV ZHPVW.

  `BVH, GSZG'H RG,' HZRW GSV SZGGVI DRGS Z HRTS:  `RG'H ZODZBH
GVZ-GRNV, ZMW DV'EV ML GRNV GL DZHS GSV GSRMTH YVGDVVM DSROVH.'

  `GSVM BLF PVVK NLERMT ILFMW, R HFKKLHV?' HZRW ZORXV.

  `VCZXGOB HL,' HZRW GSV SZGGVI:  `ZH GSV GSRMTH TVG FHVW FK.'

  `YFG DSZG SZKKVMH DSVM BLF XLNV GL GSV YVTRMMRMT ZTZRM?' ZORXV
EVMGFIVW GL ZHP.

  `HFKKLHV DV XSZMTV GSV HFYQVXG,' GSV NZIXS SZIV RMGVIIFKGVW,
BZDMRMT.  `R'N TVGGRMT GRIVW LU GSRH.  R ELGV GSV BLFMT OZWB
GVOOH FH Z HGLIB.'

  `R'N ZUIZRW R WLM'G PMLD LMV,' HZRW ZORXV, IZGSVI ZOZINVW ZG
GSV KILKLHZO.
