
What is packaged with the CD-ROM in one sense adds value--a complete
access system, not just raw, unrefined information--although it is not
generally perceived that way.  This is because the access software,
although it adds value, is viewed by some people, particularly in the
university environment where there is a very heavy commitment to
networking, as being developed in the wrong direction.

Given that context, LYNCH described the examples demonstrated as a set of
insular information gems--Perseus, for example, offers nicely linked
information, but would be very difficult to integrate with other
databases, that is, to link together seamlessly with other source files
from other sources.  It resembles an island, and in this respect is
similar to numerous stand-alone projects that are based on videodiscs,
that is, on the single-workstation concept.

As scholarship evolves in a network environment, the paramount need will
be to link databases.  We must link personal databases to public
databases, to group databases, in fairly seamless ways--which is
extremely difficult in the environments under discussion with copies of
databases proliferating all over the place.

The notion of layering also struck LYNCH as lurking in several of the
projects demonstrated.  Several databases in a sense constitute
information archives without a significant amount of navigation built in.
Educators, critics, and others will want a layered structure--one that
defines or links paths through the layers to allow users to reach
specific points.  In LYNCH's view, layering will become increasingly
necessary, and not just within a single resource but across resources
(e.g., tracing mythology and cultural themes across several classics
databases as well as a database of Renaissance culture).  This ability to
organize resources, to build things out of multiple other things on the
network or select pieces of it, represented for LYNCH one of the key
aspects of network information.

Contending that information reuse constituted another significant issue,
LYNCH commended to the audience's attention Project NEEDS (i.e., National
Engineering Education Delivery System).  This project's objective is to
produce a database of engineering courseware as well as the components
that can be used to develop new courseware.  In a number of the existing
applications, LYNCH said, the issue of reuse (how much one can take apart
and reuse in other applications) was not being well considered.  He also
raised the issue of active versus passive use, one aspect of which  is
how much information will be manipulated locally by users.  Most people,
he argued, may do a little browsing and then will wish to print.  LYNCH
was uncertain how these resources would be used by the vast majority of
users in the network environment.

LYNCH next said a few words about X-Windows as a way of differentiating
between network access and networked information.  A number of the
applications demonstrated at the Workshop could be rewritten to use X
across the network, so that one could run them from any X-capable device-
-a workstation, an X terminal--and transact with a database across the
network.  Although this opens up access a little, assuming one has enough
network to handle it, it does not provide an interface to develop a
program that conveniently integrates information from multiple databases.
X is a viewing technology that has limits.  In a real sense, it is just a
graphical version of remote log-in across the network.  X-type applications
represent only one step in the progression towards real access.

LYNCH next discussed barriers to the distribution of networked multimedia
information.  The heart of the problem is a lack of standards to provide
the ability for computers to talk to each other, retrieve information,
and shuffle it around fairly casually.  At the moment, little progress is
being made on standards for networked information; for example, present
standards do not cover images, digital voice, and digital video.  A
useful tool kit of exchange formats for basic texts is only now being
assembled.  The synchronization of content streams (i.e., synchronizing a
voice track to a video track, establishing temporal relations between
different components in a multimedia object) constitutes another issue
for networked multimedia that is just beginning to receive attention.

Underlying network protocols also need some work; good, real-time
delivery protocols on the Internet do not yet exist.  In LYNCH's view,
highly important in this context is the notion of networked digital
object IDs, the ability of one object on the network to point to another
object (or component thereof) on the network.  Serious bandwidth issues
also exist.  LYNCH was uncertain if billion-bit-per-second networks would
prove sufficient if numerous people ran video in parallel.

LYNCH concluded by offering an issue for database creators to consider,
as well as several comments about what might constitute good trial
multimedia experiments.  In a networked information world the database
builder or service builder (publisher) does not exercise the same
extensive control over the integrity of the presentation; strange
programs "munge" with one's data before the user sees it.  Serious
thought must be given to what guarantees integrity of presentation.  Part
of that is related to where one draws the boundaries around a networked
information service.  This question of presentation integrity in
client-server computing has not been stressed enough in the academic
world, LYNCH argued, though commercial service providers deal with it
regularly.

Concerning multimedia, LYNCH observed that good multimedia at the moment
is hideously expensive to produce.  He recommended producing multimedia
with either very high sale value, or multimedia with a very long life
span, or multimedia that will have a very broad usage base and whose
costs therefore can be amortized among large numbers of users.  In this
connection, historical and humanistically oriented material may be a good
place to start, because it tends to have a longer life span than much of
the scientific material, as well as a wider user base.  LYNCH noted, for
example, that American Memory fits many of the criteria outlined.  He
remarked the extensive discussion about bringing the Internet or the
National Research and Education Network (NREN) into the K-12 environment
as a way of helping the American educational system.

LYNCH closed by noting that the kinds of applications demonstrated struck
him as excellent justifications of broad-scale networking for K-12, but
that at this time no "killer" application exists to mobilize the K-12
community to obtain connectivity.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Dearth of genuinely interesting applications on the network
a slow-changing situation * The issue of the integrity of presentation in
a networked environment * Several reasons why CD-ROM software does not
network *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the discussion period that followed LYNCH's presentation, several
additional points were made.

LYNCH reiterated even more strongly his contention that, historically,
once one goes outside high-end science and the group of those who need
access to supercomputers, there is a great dearth of genuinely
interesting applications on the network.  He saw this situation changing
slowly, with some of the scientific databases and scholarly discussion
groups and electronic journals coming on as well as with the availability
of Wide Area Information Servers (WAIS) and some of the databases that
are being mounted there.  However, many of those things do not seem to
have piqued great popular interest.  For instance, most high school
students of LYNCH's acquaintance would not qualify as devotees of serious
molecular biology.

Concerning the issue of the integrity of presentation, LYNCH believed
that a couple of information providers have laid down the law at least on
certain things.  For example, his recollection was that the National
Library of Medicine feels strongly that one needs to employ the
identifier field if he or she is to mount a database commercially.  The
problem with a real networked environment is that one does not know who
is reformatting and reprocessing one's data when one enters a client
server mode.  It becomes anybody's guess, for example, if the network
uses a Z39.50 server, or what clients are doing with one's data.  A data
provider can say that his contract will only permit clients to have
access to his data after he vets them and their presentation and makes
certain it suits him.  But LYNCH held out little expectation that the
network marketplace would evolve in that way, because it required too
much prior negotiation.

CD-ROM software does not network for a variety of reasons, LYNCH said.
He speculated that CD-ROM publishers are not eager to have their products
really hook into wide area networks, because they fear it will make their
data suppliers nervous.  Moreover, until relatively recently, one had to
be rather adroit to run a full TCP/IP stack plus applications on a
PC-size machine, whereas nowadays it is becoming easier as PCs grow
bigger and faster.  LYNCH also speculated that software providers had not
heard from their customers until the last year or so, or had not heard
from enough of their customers.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
BESSER * Implications of disseminating images on the network; planning
the distribution of multimedia documents poses two critical
implementation problems * Layered approach represents the way to deal
with users' capabilities * Problems in platform design; file size and its
implications for networking * Transmission of megabyte size images
impractical * Compression and decompression at the user's end * Promising
trends for compression * A disadvantage of using X-Windows * A project at
the Smithsonian that mounts images on several networks *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Howard BESSER, School of Library and Information Science, University of
Pittsburgh, spoke primarily about multimedia, focusing on images and the
broad implications of disseminating them on the network.  He argued that
planning the distribution of multimedia documents posed two critical
implementation problems, which he framed in the form of two questions:
1) What platform will one use and what hardware and software will users
have for viewing of the material?  and 2) How can one deliver a
sufficiently robust set of information in an accessible format in a
reasonable amount of time?  Depending on whether network or CD-ROM is the
medium used, this question raises different issues of storage,
compression, and transmission.

Concerning the design of platforms (e.g., sound, gray scale, simple
color, etc.) and the various capabilities users may have, BESSER
maintained that a layered approach was the way to deal with users'
capabilities.  A result would be that users with less powerful
workstations would simply have less functionality.  He urged members of
the audience to advocate standards and accompanying software that handle
layered functionality across a wide variety of platforms.

BESSER also addressed problems in platform design, namely, deciding how
large a machine to design for situations when the largest number of users
have the lowest level of the machine, and one desires higher
functionality.  BESSER then proceeded to the question of file size and
its implications for networking.  He discussed still images in the main.
For example, a digital color image that fills the screen of a standard
mega-pel workstation (Sun or Next) will require one megabyte of storage
for an eight-bit image or three megabytes of storage for a true color or
twenty-four-bit image.  Lossless compression algorithms (that is,
computational procedures in which no data is lost in the process of
compressing [and decompressing] an image--the exact bit-representation is
maintained) might bring storage down to a third of a megabyte per image,
but not much further than that.  The question of size makes it difficult
to fit an appropriately sized set of these images on a single disk or to
transmit them quickly enough on a network.

With these full screen mega-pel images that constitute a third of a
megabyte, one gets 1,000-3,000 full-screen images on a one-gigabyte disk;
a standard CD-ROM represents approximately 60 percent of that.  Storing
images the size of a PC screen (just 8 bit color) increases storage
capacity to 4,000-12,000 images per gigabyte; 60 percent of that gives
one the size of a CD-ROM, which in turn creates a major problem.  One
cannot have full-screen, full-color images with lossless compression; one
must compress them or use a lower resolution.  For megabyte-size images,
anything slower than a T-1 speed is impractical.  For example, on a
fifty-six-kilobaud line, it takes three minutes to transfer a
one-megabyte file, if it is not compressed; and this speed assumes ideal
circumstances (no other user contending for network bandwidth).  Thus,
questions of disk access, remote display, and current telephone
connection speed make transmission of megabyte-size images impractical.

BESSER then discussed ways to deal with these large images, for example,
compression and decompression at the user's end.  In this connection, the
issues of how much one is willing to lose in the compression process and
what image quality one needs in the first place are unknown.  But what is
known is that compression entails some loss of data.  BESSER urged that
more studies be conducted on image quality in different situations, for
example, what kind of images are needed for what kind of disciplines, and
what kind of image quality is needed for a browsing tool, an intermediate
viewing tool, and archiving.

BESSER remarked two promising trends for compression:  from a technical
perspective, algorithms that use what is called subjective redundancy
employ principles from visual psycho-physics to identify and remove
information from the image that the human eye cannot perceive; from an
interchange and interoperability perspective, the JPEG (i.e., Joint
Photographic Experts Group, an ISO standard) compression algorithms also
offer promise.  These issues of compression and decompression, BESSER
argued, resembled those raised earlier concerning the design of different
platforms.  Gauging the capabilities of potential users constitutes a
primary goal.  BESSER advocated layering or separating the images from
the applications that retrieve and display them, to avoid tying them to
particular software.

BESSER detailed several lessons learned from his work at Berkeley with
Imagequery, especially the advantages and disadvantages of using
X-Windows.  In the latter category, for example, retrieval is tied
directly to one's data, an intolerable situation in the long run on a
networked system.  Finally, BESSER described a project of Jim Wallace at
the Smithsonian Institution, who is mounting images in a extremely
rudimentary way on the Compuserv and Genie networks and is preparing to
mount them on America On Line.  Although the average user takes over
thirty minutes to download these images (assuming a fairly fast modem),
nevertheless, images have been downloaded 25,000 times.

BESSER concluded his talk with several comments on the business
arrangement between the Smithsonian and Compuserv.  He contended that not
enough is known concerning the value of images.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Creating digitized photographic collections nearly
impossible except with large organizations like museums * Need for study
to determine quality of images users will tolerate *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the brief exchange between LESK and BESSER that followed, several
clarifications emerged.

LESK argued that the photographers were far ahead of BESSER:  It is
almost impossible to create such digitized photographic collections
except with large organizations like museums, because all the
photographic agencies have been going crazy about this and will not sign
licensing agreements on any sort of reasonable terms.  LESK had heard
that National Geographic, for example, had tried to buy the right to use
some image in some kind of educational production for $100 per image, but
the photographers will not touch it.  They want accounting and payment
for each use, which cannot be accomplished within the system.  BESSER
responded that a consortium of photographers, headed by a former National
Geographic photographer, had started assembling its own collection of
electronic reproductions of images, with the money going back to the
cooperative.

LESK contended that BESSER was unnecessarily pessimistic about multimedia
images, because people are accustomed to low-quality images, particularly
from video.  BESSER urged the launching of a study to determine what
users would tolerate, what they would feel comfortable with, and what
absolutely is the highest quality they would ever need.  Conceding that
he had adopted a dire tone in order to arouse people about the issue,
BESSER closed on a sanguine note by saying that he would not be in this
business if he did not think that things could be accomplished.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
LARSEN * Issues of scalability and modularity * Geometric growth of the
Internet and the role played by layering * Basic functions sustaining
this growth * A library's roles and functions in a network environment *
Effects of implementation of the Z39.50 protocol for information
retrieval on the library system * The trade-off between volumes of data
and its potential usage * A snapshot of current trends *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Ronald LARSEN, associate director for information technology, University
of Maryland at College Park, first addressed the issues of scalability
and modularity.  He noted the difficulty of anticipating the effects of
orders-of-magnitude growth, reflecting on the twenty years of experience
with the Arpanet and Internet.  Recalling the day's demonstrations of
CD-ROM and optical disk material, he went on to ask if the field has yet
learned how to scale new systems to enable delivery and dissemination
across large-scale networks.

LARSEN focused on the geometric growth of the Internet from its inception
circa 1969 to the present, and the adjustments required to respond to
that rapid growth.  To illustrate the issue of scalability, LARSEN
considered computer networks as including three generic components:
computers, network communication nodes, and communication media.  Each
component scales (e.g., computers range from PCs to supercomputers;
network nodes scale from interface cards in a PC through sophisticated
routers and gateways; and communication media range from 2,400-baud
dial-up facilities through 4.5-Mbps backbone links, and eventually to
multigigabit-per-second communication lines), and architecturally, the
components are organized to scale hierarchically from local area networks
to international-scale networks.  Such growth is made possible by
building layers of communication protocols, as BESSER pointed out.
By layering both physically and logically, a sense of scalability is
maintained from local area networks in offices, across campuses, through
bridges, routers, campus backbones, fiber-optic links, etc., up into
regional networks and ultimately into national and international
networks.

LARSEN then illustrated the geometric growth over a two-year period--
through September 1991--of the number of networks that comprise GSV
RMGVIMVG.  GSRH TILDGS SZH YVVM HFHGZRMVW OZITVOB YB GSV ZEZROZYRORGB LU
GSIVV YZHRX UFMXGRLMH:  VOVXGILMRX NZRO, UROV GIZMHUVI (UGK), ZMW IVNLGV
OLT-LM (GVOMVG).  OZIHVM ZOHL IVERVDVW GSV TILDGS RM GSV PRMW LU GIZUURX
GSZG LXXFIH LM GSV MVGDLIP.  MVGDLIP GIZUURX IVUOVXGH GSV QLRMG XLMGIRYFGRLMH
LU Z OZITVI KLKFOZGRLM LU FHVIH ZMW RMXIVZHRMT FHV KVI FHVI.  GLWZB LMV HVVH
HVIRLFH ZKKORXZGRLMH RMELOERMT NLERMT RNZTVH ZXILHH GSV MVGDLIP--Z IZIRGB
GVM BVZIH ZTL.  OZIHVM IVXZOOVW ZMW XLMXFIIVW DRGS YVHHVI'H NZRM KLRMG
GSZG GSV RMGVIVHGRMT KILYOVNH LXXFI ZG GSV ZKKORXZGRLM OVEVO.

OZIHVM GSVM ROOFHGIZGVW Z NLWVO LU Z ORYIZIB'H ILOVH ZMW UFMXGRLMH RM Z
MVGDLIP VMERILMNVMG.  SV MLGVW, RM KZIGRXFOZI, GSV KOZXVNVMG LU LM-ORMV
XZGZOLTFVH LMGL GSV MVGDLIP ZMW KZGILMH LYGZRMRMT ZXXVHH GL GSV ORYIZIB
RMXIVZHRMTOB GSILFTS OLXZO MVGDLIPH, XZNKFH MVGDLIPH, ZMW GSV RMGVIMVG.
OZIHVM HFKKLIGVW OBMXS'H VZIORVI HFTTVHGRLM GSZG DV MVVW GL ZWWIVHH
UFMWZNVMGZO JFVHGRLMH LU MVGDLIPVW RMULINZGRLM RM LIWVI GL YFROW
VMERILMNVMGH GSZG HXZOV RM GSV RMULINZGRLM HVMHV ZH DVOO ZH RM GSV
KSBHRXZO HVMHV.

OZIHVM HFKKLIGVW GSV ILOV LU GSV ORYIZIB HBHGVN ZH GSV ZXXVHH KLRMG RMGL
GSV MZGRLM'H VOVXGILMRX XLOOVXGRLMH.  RNKOVNVMGZGRLM LU GSV A39.50
KILGLXLO ULI RMULINZGRLM IVGIRVEZO DLFOW NZPV HFXS ZXXVHH KIZXGRXZO ZMW
UVZHRYOV.  ULI VCZNKOV, GSRH DLFOW VMZYOV KZGILMH RM NZIBOZMW GL HVZIXS
XZORULIMRZ ORYIZIRVH, LI LGSVI ORYIZIRVH ZILFMW GSV DLIOW GSZG ZIV
XLMULINZMG DRGS A39.50 RM Z NZMMVI GSZG RH UZNRORZI GL FMREVIHRGB LU
NZIBOZMW KZGILMH.  GSRH XORVMG-HVIEVI NLWVO ZOHL HFKKLIGH NLERMT YVBLMW
HVXLMWZIB XLMGVMG RMGL KIRNZIB XLMGVMG.  (GSV MLGRLM LU SLD LMV ORMPH
UILN HVXLMWZIB XLMGVMG GL KIRNZIB XLMGVMG, OZIHVM HZRW, IVKIVHVMGH Z
UFMWZNVMGZO KILYOVN GSZG IVJFRIVH IRTLILFH GSLFTSG.)  ZUGVI MLGRMT
MFNVILFH MVGDLIP VCKVIRNVMGH RM ZXXVHHRMT UFOO-GVCG NZGVIRZOH, RMXOFWRMT
KILQVXGH HFKKLIGRMT GSV LIWVIRMT LU NZGVIRZOH ZXILHH GSV MVGDLIP, OZIHVM
IVERHRGVW GSV RHHFV LU GIZMHNRGGRMT SRTS-WVMHRGB, SRTS-IVHLOFGRLM XLOLI
RNZTVH ZXILHH GSV MVGDLIP ZMW GSV OZITV ZNLFMGH LU YZMWDRWGS GSVB
IVJFRIV.  SV DVMG LM GL ZWWIVHH GSV YZMWDRWGS ZMW HBMXSILMRAZGRLM
KILYOVNH RMSVIVMG RM HVMWRMT UFOO-NLGRLM ERWVL ZXILHH GSV MVGDLIP.

OZIHVM ROOFHGIZGVW GSV GIZWV-LUU YVGDVVM ELOFNVH LU WZGZ RM YBGVH LI
LIWVIH LU NZTMRGFWV ZMW GSV KLGVMGRZO FHZTV LU GSZG WZGZ.  SV WRHXFHHVW
GIZMHNRHHRLM IZGVH (KZIGRXFOZIOB, GSV GRNV RG GZPVH GL NLEV EZIRLFH ULINH
LU RMULINZGRLM), ZMW DSZG LMV XLFOW WL DRGS Z MVGDLIP HFKKLIGRMT
NFOGRTRTZYRG-KVI-HVXLMW GIZMHNRHHRLM.  ZG GSV NLNVMG, GSV MVGDLIP
VMERILMNVMG RMXOFWVH Z XLNKLHRGV LU WZGZ-GIZMHNRHHRLM IVJFRIVNVMGH,
ELOFNVH ZMW ULINH, TLRMT UILN HGVZWB GL YFIHGB (SRTS-ELOFNV) ZMW UILN
EVIB HOLD GL EVIB UZHG.  GSRH ZTTIVTZGV NFHG YV XLMHRWVIVW RM GSV WVHRTM,
XLMHGIFXGRLM, ZMW LKVIZGRLM LU NFOGRTRTZYBGV MVGDLIPH.

OZIHVM'H LYQVXGREV RH GL FHV GSV MVGDLIPH ZMW ORYIZIB HBHGVNH MLD YVRMT
XLMHGIFXGVW GL RMXIVZHV ZXXVHH GL IVHLFIXVH DSVIVEVI GSVB VCRHG, ZMW
GSFH, GL VELOEV GLDZIW ZM LM-ORMV VOVXGILMRX ERIGFZO ORYIZIB.

OZIHVM XLMXOFWVW YB LUUVIRMT Z HMZKHSLG LU XFIIVMG GIVMWH:  XLMGRMFRMT
TVLNVGIRX TILDGS RM MVGDLIP XZKZXRGB ZMW MFNYVI LU FHVIH; HOLDVI
WVEVOLKNVMG LU ZKKORXZGRLMH; ZMW TOZXRZO WVEVOLKNVMG ZMW ZWLKGRLM LU
HGZMWZIWH.  GSV XSZOOVMTV RH GL WVHRTM ZMW WVEVOLK VZXS MVD ZKKORXZGRLM
HBHGVN DRGS MVGDLIP ZXXVHH ZMW HXZOZYRORGB RM NRMW.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
YILDMIRTT * ZXXVHH GL GSV RMGVIMVG XZMMLG YV GZPVM ULI TIZMGVW * KZXPVG
IZWRL ZMW GSV WVEVOLKNVMG LU NVOEBO RM 1980-81 RM GSV WRERHRLM LU ORYIZIB
ZFGLNZGRLM ZG GSV FMREVIHRGB LU XZORULIMRZ  *  WVHRTM XIRGVIRZ ULI KZXPVG
IZWRL * Z WVNLMHGIZGRLM KILQVXG RM HZM WRVTL ZMW UFGFIV KOZMH * HKIVZW
HKVXGIFN * UIVJFVMXRVH ZG DSRXS GSV IZWRLH DROO IFM ZMW KOZMH GL
IVRNKOVNVMG GSV DZRH HVIEVI HLUGDZIV RM GSV KFYORX WLNZRM * MVVW ULI ZM
RMUIZHGIFXGFIV LU IZWRLH GSZG WL MLG NLEV ZILFMW *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

VWDRM YILDMIRTT, VCVXFGREV WRIVXGLI, NVNVC IVHVZIXS RMHGRGFGV, URIHG
KLOOVW GSV ZFWRVMXV RM LIWVI GL HVVP LFG IVTFOZI FHVIH LU GSV RMGVIMVG ZH
DVOO ZH GSLHV KOZMMRMT GL FHV RG HLNV GRNV RM GSV UFGFIV.  DRGS MVZIOB
VEVIBYLWB RM GSV ILLN UZOORMT RMGL LMV XZGVTLIB LI GSV LGSVI, YILDMIRTT
NZWV Z KLRMG IV ZXXVHH, MZNVOB GSZG MFNVILFH RMWRERWFZOH, VHKVXRZOOB GSLHV
DSL FHV GSV RMGVIMVG VEVIB WZB, GZPV ULI TIZMGVW GSVRI ZXXVHH GL RG, GSV
HKVVWH DRGS DSRXS GSVB ZIV XLMMVXGVW, ZMW SLD DVOO RG ZOO DLIPH.
SLDVEVI, ZH YILDMIRTT WRHXLEVIVW YVGDVVM 1987 ZMW 1989 RM ZFHGIZORZ,
RU LMV DZMGH ZXXVHH GL GSV RMGVIMVG YFG XZMMLG ZUULIW RG LI SZH HLNV
KSBHRXZO YLFMWZIB GSZG KIVEVMGH SVI LI SRN UILN TZRMRMT ZXXVHH, RG XZM
YV VCGIVNVOB UIFHGIZGRMT.  SV HFTTVHGVW GSZG YVXZFHV LU VXLMLNRXH ZMW
KSBHRXZO YZIIRVIH DV DVIV YVTRMMRMT GL XIVZGV Z DLIOW LU SZEVH ZMW SZEV-MLGH
RM GSV KILXVHH LU HXSLOZIOB XLNNFMRXZGRLM, VEVM RM GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH.

YILDMIRTT WVGZROVW GSV WVEVOLKNVMG LU NVOEBO RM ZXZWVNRX BVZI 1980-81 RM
GSV WRERHRLM LU ORYIZIB ZFGLNZGRLM ZG GSV FMREVIHRGB LU XZORULIMRZ, RM
LIWVI GL FMWVIHXLIV GSV RHHFV LU ZXXVHH GL GSV HBHGVN, DSRXS ZG GSV
LFGHVG DZH VCGIVNVOB ORNRGVW.  RM HSLIG, GSV KILQVXG MVVWVW GL YFROW Z
MVGDLIP, DSRXS ZG GSZG GRNV VMGZROVW FHV LU HZGVOORGV GVXSMLOLTB, GSZG RH,
KFGGRMT VZIGS HGZGRLMH LM XZNKFH ZMW ZOHL ZXJFRIRMT HLNV GVIIVHGIRZO ORMPH
UILN GSV HGZGV LU XZORULIMRZ'H NRXILDZEV HBHGVN.  GSV RMHGZOOZGRLM LU
HZGVOORGV ORMPH, SLDVEVI, WRW MLG HLOEV GSV KILYOVN (DSRXS ZXGFZOOB
ULINVW KZIG LU Z OZITVI KILYOVN RMELOERMT KLORGRXH ZMW URMZMXRZO IVHLFIXVH).
ULI DSROV GSV KILQVXG GVZN XLFOW TVG Z HRTMZO LMGL Z XZNKFH, RG SZW ML NVZMH
LU WRHGIRYFGRMT GSV HRTMZO GSILFTSLFG GSV XZNKFH.  GSV HLOFGRLM RMELOEVW
ZWLKGRMT Z IVXVMG WVEVOLKNVMG RM DRIVOVHH XLNNFMRXZGRLM XZOOVW KZXPVG IZWRL,
DSRXS XLNYRMVW GSV YZHRX MLGRLM LU KZXPVG-HDRGXSRMT DRGS IZWRL.  GSV KILQVXG
FHVW GSRH GVXSMLOLTB GL TVG GSV HRTMZO UILN Z KLRMG LM XZNKFH DSVIV RG
XZNV WLDM, ZM VZIGS HGZGRLM ULI VCZNKOV, RMGL GSV ORYIZIRVH, YVXZFHV RG
ULFMW GSZG DRIRMT GSV ORYIZIRVH, VHKVXRZOOB GSV LOWVI NZIYOV YFROWRMTH,
DLFOW XLHG $2,000-$5,000 KVI GVINRMZO.

YILDMIRTT MLGVW GSZG, GVM BVZIH ZTL, GSV KILQVXG SZW MVRGSVI GSV KFYORX
KLORXB MLI GSV GVXSMLOLTB GSZG DLFOW SZEV ZOOLDVW RG GL FHV KZXPVG IZWRL
RM ZMB NVZMRMTUFO DZB.  HRMXV GSVM NFXS SZW XSZMTVW.  SV KILXVVWVW GL
WVGZRO IVHVZIXS ZMW WVEVOLKNVMG LU GSV GVXSMLOLTB, SLD RG RH YVRMT
WVKOLBVW RM XZORULIMRZ, ZMW DSZG WRIVXGRLM SV GSLFTSG RG DLFOW GZPV.
GSV WVHRTM XIRGVIRZ ZIV GL KILWFXV Z SRTS-HKVVW, LMV-GRNV, OLD-XLHG,
SRTS-JFZORGB, HVXFIV, ORXVMHV-UIVV WVERXV (KZXPVG IZWRL) GSZG LMV XZM
KOFT RM ZMW KOZB GLWZB, ULITVG ZYLFG RG, ZMW SZEV ZXXVHH GL GSV RMGVIMVG.
YB SRTS HKVVW, YILDMIRTT NVZMG 1 NVTZYBGV ZMW 1.5 NVTZYBGVH.  GSLHV FMRGH
SZEV YVVM YFROG, SV XLMGRMFVW, ZMW ZIV RM GSV KILXVHH LU YVRMT
GBKV-XVIGRURVW YB ZM RMWVKVMWVMG FMWVIDIRGRMT OZYLIZGLIB HL GSZG GSVB XZM
YV GBKV-ORXVMHVW YB GSV UVWVIZO XLNNFMRXZGRLMH XLNNRHHRLM.  ZH RH GSV
XZHV DRGS XRGRAVMH YZMW, LMV DROO YV ZYOV GL KFIXSZHV Z FMRG ZMW MLG SZEV
GL DLIIB ZYLFG ZKKOBRMT ULI Z ORXVMHV.

GSV YZHRX RWVZ, YILDMIRTT VOZYLIZGVW, RH GL GZPV SRTS-HKVVW IZWRL WZGZ
GIZMHNRHHRLM ZMW XIVZGV Z YZXPYLMV MVGDLIP GSZG ZG XVIGZRM HGIZGVTRX
KLRMGH RM GSV MVGDLIP DROO "TZGVDZB" RMGL Z NVWRFN-HKVVW KZXPVG IZWRL
(R.V., LMV GSZG IFMH ZG 38.4 PROLYBGVH), HL GSZG KVISZKH YB 1994-1995
KVLKOV, ORPV GSLHV RM GSV ZFWRVMXV ULI GSV KIRXV LU Z EXI XLFOW KFIXSZHV
Z NVWRFN-HKVVW IZWRL ULI GSV LUURXV LI SLNV, SZEV UFOO MVGDLIP XLMMVXGRERGB
GL GSV RMGVIMVG, ZMW KZIGZPV LU ZOO RGH HVIERXVH, DRGS ML MVVW ULI ZM UXX
ORXVMHV ZMW ML IVTFOZI YROO UILN GSV OLXZO XLNNLM XZIIRVI.  YILDMIRTT
KIVHVMGVW HVEVIZO WVGZROH LU Z WVNLMHGIZGRLM KILQVXG XFIIVMGOB GZPRMT
KOZXV RM HZM WRVTL ZMW WVHXIRYVW KOZMH, KVMWRMT UFMWRMT, GL RMHGZOO Z
UFOO-YLIV MVGDLIP RM GSV HZM UIZMXRHXL ZIVZ.  GSRH MVGDLIP DROO SZEV 600
MLWVH IFMMRMT ZG YZXPYLMV HKVVWH, ZMW 100 LU GSVHV MLWVH DROO YV ORYIZIRVH,
DSRXS RM GFIM DROO YV GSV TZGVDZB KLIGH GL GSV 38.4 PROLYBGV IZWRLH GSZG
DROO TREV XLEVIZTV ULI GSV MVRTSYLISLLWH HFIILFMWRMT GSV ORYIZIRVH.

YILDMIRTT MVCG VCKOZRMVW KZIG 15.247, Z MVD IFOV DRGSRM GRGOV 47 LU GSV
XLWV LU UVWVIZO IVTFOZGRLMH VMZXGVW YB GSV UXX RM 1985.  GSRH IFOV
XSZOOVMTVW GSV RMWFHGIB, DSRXS SZH LMOB MLD IRHVM GL GSV LXXZHRLM, GL
YFROW Z IZWRL GSZG DLFOW IFM ZG ML NLIV GSZM LMV DZGG LU LFGKFG KLDVI ZMW
FHV Z UZRIOB VCLGRX NVGSLW LU NLWFOZGRMT GSV IZWRL DZEV XZOOVW HKIVZW
HKVXGIFN.  HKIVZW HKVXGIFN RM UZXG KVINRGH GSV YFROWRMT LU MVGDLIPH HL
GSZG MFNVILFH WZGZ XLNNFMRXZGRLMH XZM LXXFI HRNFOGZMVLFHOB, DRGSLFG
RMGVIUVIRMT DRGS VZXS LGSVI, DRGSRM GSV HZNV DRWV IZWRL XSZMMVO.

YILDMIRTT VCKOZRMVW GSZG GSV UIVJFVMXRVH ZG DSRXS GSV IZWRLH DLFOW IFM
ZIV EVIB HSLIG DZEV HRTMZOH.  GSVB ZIV DVOO ZYLEV HGZMWZIW NRXILDZEV ZMW
IZWZI.  DRGS Z IZWRL DZEV GSZG HNZOO, LMV DZGG YVXLNVH Z GIVNVMWLFH KFMXS
KVI YRG ZMW GSFH NZPVH GIZMHNRHHRLM ZG IVZHLMZYOV HKVVW KLHHRYOV.  RM
LIWVI GL NRMRNRAV GSV KLGVMGRZO ULI XLMTVHGRLM, GSV KILQVXG RH
FMWVIGZPRMT GL IVRNKOVNVMG HLUGDZIV DSRXS SZH YVVM ZEZROZYOV RM GSV
MVGDLIPRMT YFHRMVHH ZMW RH GZPVM ULI TIZMGVW MLD, ULI VCZNKOV, GXK/RK,
ILFGRMT ZOTLIRGSNH, YIRWTVH, ZMW TZGVDZBH.  RM ZWWRGRLM, GSV KILQVXG
KOZMH GL GZPV GSV DZRH HVIEVI HLUGDZIV RM GSV KFYORX WLNZRM ZMW
IVRNKOVNVMG RG HL GSZG LMV XZM SZEV Z DZRH HVIEVI LM Z NZX RMHGVZW LU Z
FMRC NZXSRMV.  GSV NVNVC IVHVZIXS RMHGRGFGV YVORVEVH GSZG ORYIZIRVH, RM
KZIGRXFOZI, DROO DZMG GL FHV GSV DZRH HVIEVIH DRGS KZXPVG IZWRL.  GSRH
KILQVXG, DSRXS SZH Z GVZN LU ZYLFG GDVOEV KVLKOV, DROO IFM GSILFTS 1993
ZMW DROO RMXOFWV GSV 100 ORYIZIRVH ZOIVZWB NVMGRLMVW ZH DVOO ZH LGSVI
KILUVHHRLMZOH HFXS ZH GSLHV RM GSV NVWRXZO KILUVHHRLM, VMTRMVVIRMT, ZMW
OZD.  GSFH, GSV MVVW RH GL XIVZGV ZM RMUIZHGIFXGFIV LU IZWRLH GSZG WL MLG
NLEV ZILFMW, DSRXS, YILDMIRTT SLKVH, DROO HLOEV Z KILYOVN MLG LMOB ULI
ORYIZIRVH YFG ULI RMWRERWFZOH DSL, YB ZMW OZITV GLWZB, WL MLG SZEV ZXXVHH
GL GSV RMGVIMVG UILN GSVRI SLNVH ZMW LUURXVH.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
WRHXFHHRLM * KILQVXG LKVIZGRMT UIVJFVMXRVH *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

WFIRMT Z YIRVU WRHXFHHRLM KVIRLW, DSRXS ZOHL XLMXOFWVW GSV WZB'H
KILXVVWRMTH, YILDMIRTT HGZGVW GSZG GSV KILQVXG DZH LKVIZGRMT RM ULFI
UIVJFVMXRVH.  GSV HOLD HKVVW RH LKVIZGRMT ZG 435 NVTZSVIGA, ZMW RG DLFOW
OZGVI TL FK GL 920 NVTZSVIGA.  DRGS GSV SRTS-HKVVW UIVJFVMXB, GSV
LMV-NVTZYBGV IZWRLH DROO IFM ZG 2.4 TRTZYRGH, ZMW 1.5 DROO IFM ZG 5.7.
ZG 5.7, IZRM XZM YV Z UZXGLI, YFG RG DLFOW SZEV GL YV GILKRXZO IZRM,
FMORPV DSZG UZOOH RM NLHG KZIGH LU GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH.

                                 ******

HVHHRLM RE.  RNZTV XZKGFIV, GVCG XZKGFIV, LEVIERVD LU GVCG ZMW
             RNZTV HGLIZTV ULINZGH
