discover multiple institutions digitizing the same work.  Re microforms,
LYNCH said, we are in pretty good shape.

BATTIN called this a big problem and noted that the Cornell people (who
had already departed) were working on it.  At issue from the beginning
was to learn how to catalog that information into RLIN and then into
OCLC, so that it would be accessible.  That issue remains to be resolved.
LYNCH rejoined that putting it into OCLC or RLIN was helpful insofar as
somebody who is thinking of performing preservation activity on that work
could learn about it.  It is not necessarily helpful for institutions to
make that available.  BATTIN opined that the idea was that it not only be
for preservation purposes but for the convenience of people looking for
this material.  She endorsed LYNCH's dictum that duplication of this
effort was to be avoided by every means.

HOCKEY informed the Workshop about one major current activity of CETH,
namely a catalogue of machine-readable texts in the humanities.  Held on
RLIN at present, the catalogue has been concentrated on ASCII as opposed
to digitized images of text.  She is exploring ways to improve the
catalogue and make it more widely available, and welcomed suggestions
about these concerns.  CETH owns the records, which are not just
restricted to RLIN, and can distribute them however it wishes.

Taking up LESK's earlier question, BATTIN inquired whether LC, since it
is accepting electronic files and designing a mechanism for dealing with
that rather than putting books on shelves, would become responsible for
the National Copyright Depository of Electronic Materials.  Of course
that could not be accomplished overnight, but it would be something LC
could plan for.  GIFFORD acknowledged that much thought was being devoted
to that set of problems and returned the discussion to the issue raised
by LYNCH--whether or not putting the kind of records that both BATTIN and
HOCKEY have been talking about in RLIN is not a satisfactory solution.
It seemed to him that RLIN answered LYNCH's original point concerning
some kind of directory for these kinds of materials.  In a situation
where somebody is attempting to decide whether or not to scan this or
film that or to learn whether or not someone has already done so, LYNCH
suggested, RLIN is helpful, but it is not helpful in the case of a local,
on-line catalogue.  Further, one would like to have her or his system be
aware that that exists in digital form, so that one can present it to a
patron, even though one did not digitize it, if it is out of copyright.
The only way to make those linkages would be to perform a tremendous
amount of real-time look-up, which would be awkward at best, or
periodically to yank the whole file from RLIN and match it against one's
own stuff, which is a nuisance.

But where, ERWAY inquired, does one stop including things that are
available with Internet, for instance, in one's local catalogue?
It almost seems that that is LC's means to acquire access to them.
That represents LC's new form of library loan.  Perhaps LC's new on-line
catalogue is an amalgamation of all these catalogues on line.  LYNCH
conceded that perhaps that was true in the very long term, but was not
applicable to scanning in the short term.  In his view, the totals cited
by Yale, 10,000 books over perhaps a four-year period, and 1,000-1,500
books from Cornell, were not big numbers, while searching all over
creation for relatively rare occurrences will prove to be less efficient.
As GIFFORD wondered if this would not be a separable file on RLIN and
could be requested from them, BATTIN interjected that it was easily
accessible to an institution.  SEVERTSON pointed out that that file, cum
enhancements, was available with reference information on CD-ROM, which
makes it a little more available.

In HOCKEY's view, the real question facing the Workshop is what to put in
this catalogue, because that raises the question of what constitutes a
publication in the electronic world.  (WEIBEL interjected that Eric Joule
in OCLC's Office of Research is also wrestling with this particular
problem, while GIFFORD thought it sounded fairly generic.)  HOCKEY
contended that a majority of texts in the humanities are in the hands
of either a small number of large research institutions or individuals
and are not generally available for anyone else to access at all.
She wondered if these texts ought to be catalogued.

After argument proceeded back and forth for several minutes over why
cataloguing might be a necessary service, LEBRON suggested that this
issue involved the responsibility of a publisher.  The fact that someone
has created something electronically and keeps it under his or her
control does not constitute publication.  Publication implies
dissemination.  While it would be important for a scholar to let other
people know that this creation exists, in many respects this is no
different from an unpublished manuscript.  That is what is being accessed
in there, except that now one is not looking at it in the hard-copy but
in the electronic environment.

LEBRON expressed puzzlement at the variety of ways electronic publishing
has been viewed.  Much of what has been discussed throughout these two
days has concerned CD-ROM publishing, whereas in the on-line environment
that she confronts, the constraints and challenges are very different.
Sooner or later LC will have to deal with the concept of on-line
publishing.  Taking up the comment ERWAY made earlier about storing
copies, LEBRON gave her own journal as an example.  How would she deposit
OJCCT for copyright?, she asked, because the journal will exist in the
mainframe at OCLC and people will be able to access it.  Here the
situation is different, ownership versus access, and is something that
arises with publication in the on-line environment, faster than is
sometimes realized.  Lacking clear answers to all of these questions
herself, LEBRON did not anticipate that LC would be able to take a role
in helping to define some of them for quite a while.

GREENFIELD observed that LC's Network Development Office is attempting,
among other things, to explore the limits of MARC as a standard in terms
of handling electronic information.  GREENFIELD also noted that Rebecca
GUENTHER from that office gave a paper to the American Society for
Information Science (ASIS) summarizing several of the discussion papers
that were coming out of the Network Development Office.  GREENFIELD said
he understood that that office had a list-server soliciting just the kind
of feedback received today concerning the difficulties of identifying and
cataloguing electronic information.  GREENFIELD hoped that everybody
would be aware of that and somehow contribute to that conversation.

Noting two of LC's roles, first, to act as a repository of record for
material that is copyrighted in this country, and second, to make
materials it holds available in some limited form to a clientele that
goes beyond Congress, BESSER suggested that it was incumbent on LC to
extend those responsibilities to all the things being published in
electronic form.  This would mean eventually accepting electronic
formats.  LC could require that at some point they be in a certain
limited set of formats, and then develop mechanisms for allowing people
to access those in the same way that other things are accessed.  This
does not imply that they are on the network and available to everyone.
LC does that with most of its bibliographic records, BESSER said, which
end up migrating to the utility (e.g., OCLC) or somewhere else.  But just
as most of LC's books are available in some form through interlibrary
loan or some other mechanism, so in the same way electronic formats ought
to be available to others in some format, though with some copyright
considerations.  BESSER was not suggesting that these mechanisms be
established tomorrow, only that they seemed to fall within LC's purview,
and that there should be long-range plans to establish them.

Acknowledging that those from LC in the room agreed with BESSER
concerning the need to confront difficult questions, GIFFORD underscored
the magnitude of the problem of what to keep and what to select.  GIFFORD
noted that LC currently receives some 31,000 items per day, not counting
electronic materials, and argued for much more distributed responsibility
in order to maintain and store electronic information.

BESSER responded that the assembled group could be viewed as a starting
point, whose initial operating premise could be helping to move in this
direction and defining how LC could do so, for example, in areas of
standardization or distribution of responsibility.

FLEISCHHAUER added that AM was fully engaged, wrestling with some of the
questions that pertain to the conversion of older historical materials,
which would be one thing that the Library of Congress might do.  Several
points mentioned by BESSER and several others on this question have a
much greater impact on those who are concerned with cataloguing and the
networking of bibliographic information, as well as preservation itself.

Speaking directly to AM, which he considered was a largely uncopyrighted
database, LYNCH urged development of a network version of AM, or
consideration of making the data in it available to people interested in
doing network multimedia.  On account of the current great shortage of
digital data that is both appealing and unencumbered by complex rights
problems, this course of action could have a significant effect on making
network multimedia a reality.

In this connection, FLEISCHHAUER reported on a fragmentary prototype in
LC's Office of Information Technology Services that attempts to associate
digital images of photographs with cataloguing information in ways that
work within a local area network--a step, so to say, toward AM's
construction of some sort of apparatus for access.  Further, AM has
attempted to use standard data forms in order to help make that
distinction between the access tools and the underlying data, and thus
believes that the database is networkable.

A delicate and agonizing policy question for LC, however, which comes
back to resources and unfortunately has an impact on this, is to find
some appropriate, honorable, and legal cost-recovery possibilities.  A
certain skittishness concerning cost-recovery has made people unsure
exactly what to do.  AM would be highly receptive to discussing further
LYNCH's offer to test or demonstrate its database in a network
environment, FLEISCHHAUER said.

Returning the discussion to what she viewed as the vital issue of
electronic deposit, BATTIN recommended that LC initiate a catalytic
process in terms of distributed responsibility, that is, bring together
the distributed organizations and set up a study group to look at all
these issues and see where we as a nation should move.  The broader
issues of how we deal with the management of electronic information will
not disappear, but only grow worse.

LESK took up this theme and suggested that LC attempt to persuade one
major library in each state to deal with its state equivalent publisher,
which might produce a cooperative project that would be equitably
distributed around the country, and one in which LC would be dealing with
a minimal number of publishers and minimal copyright problems.

GRABER remarked the recent development in the scientific community of a
willingness to use SGML and either deposit or interchange on a fairly
standardized format.  He wondered if a similar movement was taking place
in the humanities.  Although the National Library of Medicine found only
a few publishers to cooperate in a like venture two or three years ago, a
new effort might generate a much larger number willing to cooperate.

KIMBALL recounted his unit's (Machine-Readable Collections Reading Room)
troubles with the commercial publishers of electronic media in acquiring
materials for LC's collections, in particular the publishers' fear that
they would not be able to cover their costs and would lose control of
their products, that LC would give them away or sell them and make
profits from them.  He doubted that the publishing industry was prepared
to move into this area at the moment, given its resistance to allowing LC
to use its machine-readable materials as the Library would like.

The copyright law now addresses compact disk as a medium, and LC can
request one copy of that, or two copies if it is the only version, and
can request copies of software, but that fails to address magazines or
books or anything like that which is in machine-readable form.

GIFFORD acknowledged the thorny nature of this issue, which he illustrated
with the example of the cumbersome process involved in putting a copy of a
scientific database on a LAN in LC's science reading room.  He also
acknowledged that LC needs help and could enlist the energies and talents
of Workshop participants in thinking through a number of these problems.

GIFFORD returned the discussion to getting the image and text people to
think through together where they want to go in the long term.  MYLONAS
conceded that her experience at the Pierce Symposium the previous week at
Georgetown University and this week at LC had forced her to reevaluate
her perspective on the usefulness of text as images.  MYLONAS framed the
issues in a series of questions:  How do we acquire machine-readable
text?  Do we take pictures of it and perform OCR on it later?  RH RG
RNKLIGZMG GL LYGZRM EVIB SRTS-JFZORGB RNZTVH ZMW GVCG, VGX.?
UOVRHXSSZFVI ZTIVVW DRGS NBOLMZH'H UIZNRMT LU HGIZGVTRX JFVHGRLMH, ZWWRMT
GSZG Z OZITV RMHGRGFGRLM HFXS ZH OX KILYZYOB SZH GL WL ZOO LU GSLHV
GSRMTH ZG WRUUVIVMG GRNVH.  GSFH, GSV GIRXP RH GL VCVIXRHV QFWTNVMG.  GSV
DLIPHSLK SZW ZWWVW GL SRH ZMW ZN'H XLMHRWVIZGRLMH RM NZPRMT GSLHV
QFWTNVMGH.  XLMXVIMRMT UFGFIV NVVGRMTH LI WRHXFHHRLMH, NBOLMZH HFTTVHGVW
GSZG HXIVVMRMT KIRLIRGRVH DLFOW YV SVOKUFO.

DVRYVO LKRMVW GSZG GSV WREVIHRGB IVUOVXGVW RM GSRH TILFK DZH Z HRTM YLGS
LU GSV SVZOGS ZMW LU GSV RNNZGFIRGB LU GSV URVOW, ZMW NLIV GRNV DLFOW
SZEV GL KZHH YVULIV DV XLMERMXV LMV ZMLGSVI XLMXVIMRMT HGZMWZIWH.

ZM VCXSZMTV YVGDVVM NBOLMZH ZMW YZGGRM XOZIRURVW GSV KLRMG GSZG GSV
WIRERMT ULIXV YVSRMW YLGS GSV KVIHVFH ZMW GSV XLIMVOO CVILC KILQVXGH DZH
GSV KIVHVIEZGRLM LU PMLDOVWTV ULI GSV UFGFIV, MLG HRNKOB ULI KZIGRXFOZI
IVHVZIXS FHV.  RM GSV XZHV LU KVIHVFH, NBOLMZH HZRW, GSV ZHHFNKGRLM DZH
GSZG GSV GVCGH DLFOW MLG YV VMGVIVW ZTZRM RMGL VOVXGILMRXZOOB IVZWZYOV
ULIN.  HKVIYVIT-NXJFVVM ZWWVW GSZG Z HXZMMVW RNZTV DLFOW MLG HVIEV ZH ZM
ZIXSREZO XLKB ULI KFIKLHVH LU KIVHVIEZGRLM RM GSV XZHV LU, HZB, GSV YROO
LU IRTSGH, RM GSV HVMHV GSZG GSV HXZMMVW RNZTVH ZIV VUUVXGREVOB GSV
ZIXSREZO XLKRVH ULI GSV XLIMVOO NZGSVNZGRXH YLLPH.


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                          ZKKVMWRC R:  KILTIZN



                                DLIPHSLK
                                   LM
                               VOVXGILMRX
                                  GVCGH



                             9-10 QFMV 1992

                           ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH
                            DZHSRMTGLM, W.X.



    HFKKLIGVW YB Z TIZMG UILN GSV WZERW ZMW OFXROV KZXPZIW ULFMWZGRLM


GFVHWZB, 9 QFMV 1992

MZGRLMZO WVNLMHGIZGRLM OZY, ZGIRFN, ORYIZIB NZWRHLM

8:30 ZN   XLUUVV ZMW WZMRHS, IVTRHGIZGRLM

9:00 ZN   DVOXLNV

          KILHHVI TRUULIW, WRIVXGLI ULI HXSLOZIOB KILTIZNH, ZMW XZIO
             UOVRHXSSZFVI, XLLIWRMZGLI, ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB, ORYIZIB LU
             XLMTIVHH

9:O5 ZN   HVHHRLM R.  XLMGVMG RM Z MVD ULIN:  DSL DROO FHV RG ZMW DSZG
          DROO GSVB WL?

          YILZW WVHXIRKGRLM LU GSV IZMTV LU VOVXGILMRX RMULINZGRLM.
          XSZIZXGVIRAZGRLM LU DSL FHVH RG ZMW SLD RG RH LI NZB YV FHVW.
          RM ZWWRGRLM GL Z OLLP ZG HXSLOZIOB FHVH, GSRH HVHHRLM DROO
          RMXOFWV Z KIVHVMGZGRLM LM FHV YB HGFWVMGH (P-12 ZMW XLOOVTV)
          ZMW GSV TVMVIZO KFYORX.

          NLWVIZGLI:  QZNVH WZOB
          ZEIZ NRXSVOHLM, ZIXSREZO IVHVZIXS ZMW VEZOFZGRLM HGZUU,
             MZGRLMZO ZIXSREVH ZMW IVXLIWH ZWNRMRHGIZGRLM (LEVIERVD)
          HFHZM S. EVXXRZ, GVZN OVZWVI, ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB, FHVI VEZOFZGRLM,
             ZMW
          QLZMMV UIVVNZM, ZHHLXRZGV XLLIWRMZGLI, ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB, ORYIZIB
             LU XLMTIVHH (YVBLMW GSV HXSLOZI)

10:30-
11:00 ZN  YIVZP

11:00 ZN  HVHHRLM RR.  HSLD ZMW GVOO.

          VZXS KIVHVMGZGRLM GL XLMHRHG LU Z URUGVVM-NRMFGV
          HGZGVNVMG/HSLD; TILFK WRHXFHHRLM DROO ULOOLD OFMXS.

          NLWVIZGLI:  QZXJFVORMV SVHH, WRIVXGLI, MZGRLMZO WVNLMHGIZGRLM
             OZY

            1.  Z XOZHHRXH KILQVXG, HGIVHHRMT GVCGH ZMW GVCG IVGIRVEZO
                NLIV GSZM NFOGRNVWRZ:  KVIHVFH KILQVXG, SZIEZIW
                FMREVIHRGB
                VOOR NBOLMZH, NZMZTRMT VWRGLI

            2.  LGSVI SFNZMRGRVH KILQVXGH VNKOLBRMT GSV VNVITRMT MLINH LU
                GSV GVCG VMXLWRMT RMRGRZGREV (GVR):  XSZWDBXP-SVZOVB'H
                GSV VMTORHS KLVGIB UFOO GVCG WZGZYZHV ZMW/LI KZGILOLTRZ
                OZGRMZ WZGZYZHV
                VIRX N. XZOZOFXZ, ERXV KIVHRWVMG, XSZWDBXP-SVZOVB, RMX.

            3.  ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB
                XZIO UOVRHXSSZFVI, XLLIWRMZGLI, ZMW
                IRXPB VIDZB, ZHHLXRZGV XLLIWRMZGLI, ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH

            4.  ULFMWRMT UZGSVIH VCZNKOV UILN KZXPZIW SFNZMRGRVH
                RMHGRGFGV:  GSV KZKVIH LU TVLITV DZHSRMTGLM, FMREVIHRGB
                LU ERITRMRZ
                WLILGSB GDLSRT, NZMZTRMT VWRGLI, ZMW/LI
                WZERW DLLWOVB KZXPZIW

            5.  ZM VOVXGILMRX NVWRXZO QLFIMZO LUUVIRMT TIZKSRXH ZMW
                UFOO-GVCG HVZIXSZYRORGB:  GSV LMORMV QLFIMZO LU XFIIVMG
                XORMRXZO GIRZOH, ZNVIRXZM ZHHLXRZGRLM ULI GSV ZWEZMXVNVMG
                LU HXRVMXV
                NZIRZ O. OVYILM, NZMZTRMT VWRGLI

            6.  Z KILQVXG GSZG LUUVIH UZXHRNROV RNZTVH LU KZTVH YFG LNRGH
                HVZIXSZYOV GVCG:  XLIMVOO NZGS YLLPH
                OBMMV P. KVIHLMRFH, ZHHRHGZMG WRIVXGLI, XLIMVOO
                   RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTRVH ULI HXSLOZIOB RMULINZGRLM
                   HLFIXVH, XLIMVOO FMREVIHRGB

12:30 KN  OFMXS  (WRMRMT ILLN Z, ORYIZIB NZWRHLM 620.  VCSRYRGH
          ZEZROZYOV.)

1:30 KN   HVHHRLM RR.  HSLD ZMW GVOO (XLMG'W.).

3:00-
3:30 KN   YIVZP

3:30-
5:30 KN   HVHHRLM RRR.  WRHGIRYFGRLM, MVGDLIPH, ZMW MVGDLIPRMT:  LKGRLMH
          ULI WRHHVNRMZGRLM.

          KFYORHSVW WRHPH:  FMREVIHRGB KIVHHVH ZMW KFYORX-HVXGLI
             KFYORHSVIH, KIREZGV-HVXGLI KFYORHSVIH
          XLNKFGVI MVGDLIPH

          NLWVIZGLI:  ILYVIG T. ARXS, HKVXRZO ZHHRHGZMG GL GSV ZHHLXRZGV
             ORYIZIRZM ULI HKVXRZO KILQVXGH, ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH
          XORUULIW Z. OBMXS, WRIVXGLI, ORYIZIB ZFGLNZGRLM, FMREVIHRGB LU
             XZORULIMRZ
          SLDZIW YVHHVI, HXSLLO LU ORYIZIB ZMW RMULINZGRLM HXRVMXV,
             FMREVIHRGB LU KRGGHYFITS
          ILMZOW O. OZIHVM, ZHHLXRZGV WRIVXGLI LU ORYIZIRVH ULI
             RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTB, FMREVIHRGB LU NZIBOZMW ZG XLOOVTV
             KZIP
          VWDRM Y. YILDMIRTT, VCVXFGREV WRIVXGLI, NVNVC IVHVZIXS
             RMHGRGFGV

6:30 KN   IVXVKGRLM  (NLMGKVORVI ILLN, ORYIZIB NZWRHLM 619.)

                                 ******

DVWMVHWZB, 10 QFMV 1992

WRMRMT ILLN Z, ORYIZIB NZWRHLM 620

8:30 ZN   XLUUVV ZMW WZMRHS

9:00 ZN   HVHHRLM RE.  RNZTV XZKGFIV, GVCG XZKGFIV, LEVIERVD LU GVCG ZMW
          RNZTV HGLIZTV ULINZGH.

          NLWVIZGLI:  DROORZN O. SLLGLM, ERXV KIVHRWVMG LU LKVIZGRLMH,
             R-MVG

          Z) KIRMXRKZO NVGSLWH ULI RNZTV XZKGFIV LU GVCG:
             WRIVXG HXZMMRMT
             FHV LU NRXILULIN

          ZMMV I. PVMMVB, ZHHRHGZMG WRIVXGLI, WVKZIGNVMG LU KIVHVIEZGRLM
             ZMW XLMHVIEZGRLM, XLIMVOO FMREVIHRGB
          KZNVOZ J.Q. ZMWIV, ZHHLXRZGV WRIVXGLI, ZFGLNZGRLM, ZMW
          QFWRGS Z. ARWZI, XLLIWRMZGLI, MZGRLMZO ZTIRXFOGFIZO GVCG
             WRTRGRARMT KILTIZN (MZGWK), MZGRLMZO ZTIRXFOGFIZO ORYIZIB
             (MZO)
          WLMZOW Q. DZGVIH, SVZW, HBHGVNH LUURXV, BZOV FMREVIHRGB ORYIZIB

          Y) HKVXRZO KILYOVNH:
             YLFMW ELOFNVH
             XLMHVIEZGRLM
             IVKILWFXRMT KIRMGVW SZOUGLMVH

          XZIO UOVRHXSSZFVI, XLLIWRMZGLI, ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB, ORYIZIB LU
             XLMTIVHH
          TVLITV GSLNZ, XSRVU, XLNNFMRXZGRLMH VMTRMVVIRMT YIZMXS,
             MZGRLMZO ORYIZIB LU NVWRXRMV (MON)

10:30-
11:00 ZN  YIVZP

11:00 ZN  HVHHRLM RE.  RNZTV XZKGFIV, GVCG XZKGFIV, LEVIERVD LU GVCG ZMW
          RNZTV HGLIZTV ULINZGH (XLMG'W.).

          X) RNZTV HGZMWZIWH ZMW RNKORXZGRLMH ULI KIVHVIEZGRLM

          QVZM YZILMZH, HVMRLI NZMZTVI, WVKZIGNVMG LU HGZMWZIWH ZMW
             GVXSMLOLTB, ZHHLXRZGRLM ULI RMULINZGRLM ZMW RNZTV NZMZTVNVMG
             (ZRRN)
          KZGIRXRZ YZGGRM, KIVHRWVMG, GSV XLNNRHHRLM LM KIVHVIEZGRLM ZMW
             ZXXVHH (XKZ)

          W) GVCG XLMEVIHRLM:
             LXI EH. IVPVBRMT
             HGZMWZIWH LU ZXXFIZXB ZMW FHV LU RNKVIUVXG GVCGH
             HVIERXV YFIVZFH

          HGFZIG DVRYVO, HVMRLI IVHVZIXS HKVXRZORHG, LMORMV XLNKFGVI
             ORYIZIB XVMGVI, RMX. (LXOX)
          NRXSZVO OVHP, VCVXFGREV WRIVXGLI, XLNKFGVI HXRVMXV IVHVZIXS,
             YVOOXLIV
          IRXPB VIDZB, ZHHLXRZGV XLLIWRMZGLI, ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB, ORYIZIB LU
             XLMTIVHH
          KZNVOZ J.Q. ZMWIV, ZHHLXRZGV WRIVXGLI, ZFGLNZGRLM, ZMW
          QFWRGS Z. ARWZI, XLLIWRMZGLI, MZGRLMZO ZTIRXFOGFIZO GVCG
             WRTRGRARMT KILTIZN (MZGWK), MZGRLMZO ZTIRXFOGFIZO ORYIZIB
             (MZO)

12:30-
1:30 KN   OFMXS

1:30 KN   HVHHRLM E.  ZKKILZXSVH GL KIVKZIRMT VOVXGILMRX GVCGH.

          WRHXFHHRLM LU ZKKILZXSVH GL HGIFXGFIRMT GVCG ULI GSV XLNKFGVI;
          KILH ZMW XLMH LU GVCG XLWRMT, WVHXIRKGRLM LU NVGSLWH RM
          KIZXGRXV, ZMW XLNKZIRHLM LU GVCG-XLWRMT NVGSLWH.

          NLWVIZGLI:  HFHZM SLXPVB, WRIVXGLI, XVMGVI ULI VOVXGILMRX GVCGH
             RM GSV SFNZMRGRVH (XVGS), IFGTVIH ZMW KIRMXVGLM FMREVIHRGRVH
          WZERW DLLWOVB KZXPZIW
          X.N. HKVIYVIT-NXJFVVM, VWRGLI, GVCG VMXLWRMT RMRGRZGREV (GVR),
             FMREVIHRGB LU ROORMLRH-XSRXZTL
          VIRX N. XZOZOFXZ, ERXV KIVHRWVMG, XSZWDBXP-SVZOVB, RMX.

3:30-
4:00 KN   YIVZP

4:00 KN   HVHHRLM ER.  XLKBIRTSG RHHFVH.

          NZIBYVGS KVGVIH, KLORXB KOZMMRMT ZWERHVI GL GSV IVTRHGVI LU
             XLKBIRTSGH, ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH

5:00 KN   HVHHRLM ERR. XLMXOFHRLM.

          TVMVIZO WRHXFHHRLM.
          DSZG GLKRXH DVIV LNRGGVW LI TREVM HSLIG HSIRUG GSZG ZMBLMV
             DLFOW ORPV GL GZOP ZYLFG MLD?
          RH GSVIV Z "TILFK" SVIV?  DSZG HSLFOW GSV TILFK WL MVCG, RU
             ZMBGSRMT?  DSZG HSLFOW GSV ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH WL MVCG, RU
             ZMBGSRMT?
          NLWVIZGLI:  KILHHVI TRUULIW, WRIVXGLI ULI HXSLOZIOB KILTIZNH,
             ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH

6:00 KN   ZWQLFIM


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                         ZKKVMWRC RR:  ZYHGIZXGH


HVHHRLM R

ZEIZ NRXSVOHLM           ULIVXZHGRMT GSV FHV LU VOVXGILMRX GVCGH YB
                         HLXRZO HXRVMXVH ZMW SFNZMRGRVH HXSLOZIH

GSRH KIVHVMGZGRLM VCKOLIVH GSV DZBH RM DSRXS VOVXGILMRX GVCGH ZIV ORPVOB
GL YV FHVW YB GSV MLM-HXRVMGRURX HXSLOZIOB XLNNFMRGB.  NZMB LU GSV
IVNZIPH ZIV WIZDM UILN Z IVKLIG GSV HKVZPVI XLZFGSLIVW DRGS QVUU
ILGSVMYVIT, Z XLNKFGVI HXRVMGRHG ZG GSV IZMW XLIKLIZGRLM.

GSV HKVZPVI ZHHVHHVH 1) XFIIVMG HXSLOZIOB FHV LU RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTB
ZMW 2) GSV PVB GIVMWH RM RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTB NLHG IVOVEZMG GL GSV
IVHVZIXS KILXVHH, RM LIWVI GL KIVWRXG SLD HLXRZO HXRVMXVH ZMW SFNZMRGRVH
HXSLOZIH ZIV ZKG GL FHV VOVXGILMRX GVCGH.  RM RMGILWFXRMT GSV GLKRX,
XFIIVMG FHV LU VOVXGILMRX GVCGH RH VCKOLIVW YILZWOB DRGSRM GSV XLMGVCG LU
HXSLOZIOB XLNNFMRXZGRLM.  UILN GSV KVIHKVXGREV LU HXSLOZIOB
XLNNFMRXZGRLM, GSV DLIP LU SFNZMRGRVH ZMW HLXRZO HXRVMXVH HXSLOZIH
RMELOEVH UREV KILXVHHVH:  1) RWVMGRURXZGRLM LU HLFIXVH, 2) XLNNFMRXZGRLM
DRGS XLOOVZTFVH, 3) RMGVIKIVGZGRLM ZMW ZMZOBHRH LU WZGZ, 4) WRHHVNRMZGRLM
LU IVHVZIXS URMWRMTH, ZMW 5) XFIIRXFOFN WVEVOLKNVMG ZMW RMHGIFXGRLM.  GSV
VCGVMG GL DSRXS XLNKFGZGRLM XFIIVMGOB KVINVZGVH ZHKVXGH LU HXSLOZIOB
XLNNFMRXZGRLM IVKIVHVMGH Z ERZYOV RMWRXZGLI LU GSV KILHKVXGH ULI
VOVXGILMRX GVCGH.

GSV WRHXFHHRLM LU XFIIVMG KIZXGRXV RH YZOZMXVW YB ZM ZMZOBHRH LU PVB
GIVMWH RM GSV HXSLOZIOB FHV LU RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTB.  GSVHV RMXOFWV GSV
GIVMWH GLDZIW VMW-FHVI XLNKFGRMT ZMW XLMMVXGRERGB, DSRXS KILERWV Z
UIZNVDLIP ULI ULIVXZHGRMT GSV FHV LU VOVXGILMRX GVCGH GSILFTS GSRH
NROOVMMRFN.  GSV KIVHVMGZGRLM XLMXOFWVH DRGS Z HFNNZIB LU GSV DZBH RM
DSRXS GSV MLMHXRVMGRURX HXSLOZIOB XLNNFMRGB XZM YV VCKVXGVW GL FHV
VOVXGILMRX GVCGH, ZMW GSV RNKORXZGRLMH LU GSZG FHV ULI RMULINZGRLM
KILERWVIH.

HFHZM EVXXRZ ZMW QLZMMV UIVVNZM    VOVXGILMRX ZIXSREVH ULI GSV KFYORX:
                                   FHV LU ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB RM KFYORX ZMW
                                   HXSLLO ORYIZIRVH

GSRH QLRMG WRHXFHHRLM ULXFHVH LM MLMHXSLOZIOB ZKKORXZGRLMH LU VOVXGILMRX
ORYIZIB NZGVIRZOH, HKVXRURXZOOB ZWWIVHHRMT FHV LU GSV ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH
ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB (ZN) KILTIZN RM Z HNZOO MFNYVI LU KFYORX ZMW HXSLLO
ORYIZIRVH GSILFTSLFG GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH.  ZN XLMHRHGH LU HVOVXGVW ORYIZIB
LU XLMTIVHH KIRNZIB ZIXSREZO NZGVIRZOH, HGLIVW LM LKGRXZO NVWRZ
(XW-ILN/ERWVLWRHX), ZMW KIVHVMGVW DRGS ORGGOV LI ML VWRGRMT.  NZMB
XLOOVXGRLMH ZIV ZXXLNKZMRVW YB VOVXGILMRX RMGILWFXGRLMH ZMW FHVI'H TFRWVH
LUUVIRMT YZXPTILFMW RMULINZGRLM ZMW SRHGLIRXZO XLMGVCG.  XLOOVXGRLMH
IVKIVHVMG Z EZIRVGB LU ULINZGH RMXOFWRMT KSLGLTIZKSH, TIZKSRX ZIGH,
NLGRLM KRXGFIVH, IVXLIWVW HLFMW, NFHRX, YILZWHRWVH ZMW NZMFHXIRKGH,
YLLPH, ZMW KZNKSOVGH.

RM 1991, GSV ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH YVTZM Z MZGRLMDRWV VEZOFZGRLM LU ZN RM
WRUUVIVMG GBKVH LU RMHGRGFGRLMH.  GVHG HRGVH RMXOFWV KFYORX ORYIZIRVH,
VOVNVMGZIB ZMW HVXLMWZIB HXSLLO ORYIZIRVH, XLOOVTV ZMW FMREVIHRGB
ORYIZIRVH, HGZGV ORYIZIRVH, ZMW HKVXRZO ORYIZIRVH.  HFHZM EVXXRZ ZMW
QLZMMV UIVVNZM DROO WRHXFHH GSVRI LYHVIEZGRLMH LM GSV FHV LU ZN YB GSV
MLMHXSLOZIOB XLNNFMRGB, FHRMT VERWVMXV TOVZMVW UILN GSRH LMTLRMT
VEZOFZGRLM VUULIG.

EVXXRZ DROO XLNNVMG LM GSV LEVIZOO TLZOH LU GSV VEZOFZGRLM KILQVXG, ZMW
GSV GBKVH LU KFYORX ZMW HXSLLO ORYIZIRVH RMXOFWVW RM GSRH HGFWB.  SVI
XLNNVMGH LM MLMHXSLOZIOB FHV LU ZN DROO ULXFH LM GSV KFYORX ORYIZIB ZH Z
XFOGFIZO ZMW XLNNFMRGB RMHGRGFGRLM, LUGVM YIRWTRMT GSV TZK YVGDVVM ULINZO
ZMW RMULINZO VWFXZGRLM.  UIVVNZM DROO WRHXFHH GSV FHV LU ZN RM HXSLLO
ORYIZIRVH.  FHV YB HGFWVMGH ZMW GVZXSVIH SZH IVEVZOVW HLNV YILZW
JFVHGRLMH ZYLFG GSV FHV LU VOVXGILMRX IVHLFIXVH, ZH DVOO ZH WVURMRGV
YVMVURGH TZRMVW YB GSV "MLMHXSLOZI."  GLKRXH DROO RMXOFWV GSV KILYOVN LU
TIZHKRMT XLMGVMG ZMW XLMGVCG RM ZM VOVXGILMRX VMERILMNVMG, GSV HGFNYORMT
YOLXPH XIVZGVW YB "MVD" GVXSMLOLTRVH, ZMW GSV FMRJFV HPROOH ZMW RMGVIVHGH
ZDZPVMVW GSILFTS FHV LU VOVXGILMRX IVHLFIXVH.

HVHHRLM RR

VOOR NBOLMZH             GSV KVIHVFH KILQVXG:  RMGVIZXGREV HLFIXVH ZMW
                         HGFWRVH RM XOZHHRXZO TIVVXV
