and catalogs to automation of their collections themselves--and it is
possible to circumvent the fiscal limitations that appear to obtain
today.

This Electronic Library Strategic Plan recommends a paradigm shift in
library service, and demonstrates the steps necessary to provide improved
library services with limited capacities and operating investments.

SESSION IV-A

Anne KENNEY

The Cornell/Xerox Joint Study in Digital Preservation resulted in the
recording of 1,000 brittle books as 600-dpi digital images and the
production, on demand, of high-quality and archivally sound paper
replacements.  The project, which was supported by the Commission on
Preservation and Access, also investigated some of the issues surrounding
scanning, storing, retrieving, and providing access to digital images in
a network environment.

Anne Kenney will focus on some of the issues surrounding direct scanning
as identified in the Cornell Xerox Project.  Among those to be discussed
are:  image versus text capture; indexing and access; image-capture
capabilities; a comparison to photocopy and microfilm; production and
cost analysis; storage formats, protocols, and standards; and the use of
this scanning technology for preservation purposes.

The 600-dpi digital images produced in the Cornell Xerox Project proved
highly acceptable for creating paper replacements of deteriorating
originals.  The 1,000 scanned volumes provided an array of image-capture
challenges that are common to nineteenth-century printing techniques and
embrittled material, and that defy the use of text-conversion processes.
These challenges include diminished contrast between text and background,
fragile and deteriorated pages, uneven printing, elaborate type faces,
faint and bold text adjacency, handwritten text and annotations, nonRoman
languages, and a proliferation of illustrated material embedded in text.
The latter category included high-frequency and low-frequency halftones,
continuous tone photographs, intricate mathematical drawings, maps,
etchings, reverse-polarity drawings, and engravings.

The Xerox prototype scanning system provided a number of important
features for capturing this diverse material.  Technicians used multiple
threshold settings, filters, line art and halftone definitions,
autosegmentation, windowing, and software-editing programs to optimize
image capture.  At the same time, this project focused on production.
The goal was to make scanning as affordable and acceptable as
photocopying and microfilming for preservation reformatting.  A
time-and-cost study conducted during the last three months of this
project confirmed the economic viability of digital scanning, and these
findings will be discussed here.

From the outset, the Cornell Xerox Project was predicated on the use of
nonproprietary standards and the use of common protocols when standards
did not exist.  Digital files were created as TIFF images which were
compressed prior to storage using Group 4 CCITT compression.  The Xerox
software is MS DOS based and utilizes off-the shelf programs such as
Microsoft Windows and Wang Image Wizard.  The digital library is designed
to be hardware-independent and to provide interchangeability with other
institutions through network connections.  Access to the digital files
themselves is two-tiered:  Bibliographic records for the computer files
are created in RLIN and Cornell's local system and access into the actual
digital images comprising a book is provided through a document control
structure and a networked image file-server, both of which will be
described.

The presentation will conclude with a discussion of some of the issues
surrounding the use of this technology as a preservation tool (storage,
refreshing, backup).

Pamela ANDRE and Judith ZIDAR

The National Agricultural Library (NAL) has had extensive experience with
raster scanning of printed materials.  Since 1987, the Library has
participated in the National Agricultural Text Digitizing Project (NATDP)
a cooperative effort between NAL and forty-five land grant university
libraries.  An overview of the project will be presented, giving its
history and NAL's strategy for the future.

An in-depth discussion of NATDP will follow, including a description of
the scanning process, from the gathering of the printed materials to the
archiving of the electronic pages.  The type of equipment required for a
stand-alone scanning workstation and the importance of file management
software will be discussed.  Issues concerning the images themselves will
be addressed briefly, such as image format; black and white versus color;
gray scale versus dithering; and resolution.

Also described will be a study currently in progress by NAL to evaluate
the usefulness of converting microfilm to electronic images in order to
improve access.  With the cooperation of Tuskegee University, NAL has
selected three reels of microfilm from a collection of sixty-seven reels
containing the papers, letters, and drawings of George Washington Carver.
The three reels were converted into 3,500 electronic images using a
specialized microfilm scanner.  The selection, filming, and indexing of
this material will be discussed.

Donald WATERS

Project Open Book, the Yale University Library's effort to convert 10,
000 books from microfilm to digital imagery, is currently in an advanced
state of planning and organization.  The Yale Library has selected a
major vendor to serve as a partner in the project and as systems
integrator.  In its proposal, the successful vendor helped isolate areas
of risk and uncertainty as well as key issues to be addressed during the
life of the project.  The Yale Library is now poised to decide what
material it will convert to digital image form and to seek funding,
initially for the first phase and then for the entire project.

The proposal that Yale accepted for the implementation of Project Open
Book will provide at the end of three phases a conversion subsystem,
browsing stations distributed on the campus network within the Yale
Library, a subsystem for storing 10,000 books at 200 and 600 dots per
inch, and network access to the image printers.  Pricing for the system
implementation assumes the existence of Yale's campus ethernet network
and its high-speed image printers, and includes other requisite hardware
and software, as well as system integration services.  Proposed operating
costs include hardware and software maintenance, but do not include
estimates for the facilities management of the storage devices and image
servers.

Yale selected its vendor partner in a formal process, partly funded by
the Commission for Preservation and Access.  Following a request for
proposal, the Yale Library selected two vendors as finalists to work with
Yale staff to generate a detailed analysis of requirements for Project
Open Book.  Each vendor used the results of the requirements analysis to
generate and submit a formal proposal for the entire project.  This
competitive process not only enabled the Yale Library to select its
primary vendor partner but also revealed much about the state of the
imaging industry, about the varying, corporate commitments to the markets
for imaging technology, and about the varying organizational dynamics
through which major companies are responding to and seeking to develop
these markets.

Project Open Book is focused specifically on the conversion of images
from microfilm to digital form.  The technology for scanning microfilm is
readily available but is changing rapidly.  In its project requirements,
the Yale Library emphasized features of the technology that affect the
technical quality of digital image production and the costs of creating
and storing the image library:  What levels of digital resolution can be
achieved by scanning microfilm?  How does variation in the quality of
microfilm, particularly in film produced to preservation standards,
affect the quality of the digital images?  What technologies can an
operator effectively and economically apply when scanning film to
separate two-up images and to control for and correct image
imperfections?  How can quality control best be integrated into
digitizing work flow that includes document indexing and storage?

The actual and expected uses of digital images--storage, browsing,
printing, and OCR--help determine the standards for measuring their
quality.  Browsing is especially important, but the facilities available
for readers to browse image documents is perhaps the weakest aspect of
imaging technology and most in need of development.  As it defined its
requirements, the Yale Library concentrated on some fundamental aspects
of usability for image documents:  Does the system have sufficient
flexibility to handle the full range of document types, including
monographs, multi-part and multivolume sets, and serials, as well as
manuscript collections?  What conventions are necessary to identify a
document uniquely for storage and retrieval?  Where is the database of
record for storing bibliographic information about the image document?
How are basic internal structures of documents, such as pagination, made
accessible to the reader?  How are the image documents physically
presented on the screen to the reader?

The Yale Library designed Project Open Book on the assumption that
microfilm is more than adequate as a mediFN ULI KIVHVIERMT GSV XLMGVMG LU
WVGVIRLIZGVW ORYIZIB NZGVIRZOH.  ZH KOZMMRMT RM GSV KILQVXG SZH ZWEZMXVW,
RG RH RMXIVZHRMTOB XOVZI GSZG GSV XSZOOVMTV LU WRTRGZO RNZTV GVXSMLOLTB
ZMW GSV PVB GL GSV HFXXVHH LU VUULIGH ORPV KILQVXG LKVM YLLP RH GL
KILERWV Z NVZMH LU YLGS KIVHVIERMT ZMW RNKILERMT ZXXVHH GL GSLHV
WVGVIRLIZGVW NZGVIRZOH.

HVHHRLM RE-Y

TVLITV GSLNZ

RM GSV FHV LU VOVXGILMRX RNZTRMT ULI WLXFNVMG KIVHVIEZGRLM, GSVIV ZIV
HVEVIZO RHHFVH GL XLMHRWVI, HFXS ZH:  VMHFIRMT ZWVJFZGV RNZTV JFZORGB,
NZRMGZRMRMT HFYHGZMGRZO XLMEVIHRLM IZGVH (GSILFTS-KFG), KILERWRMT FMRJFV
RWVMGRURXZGRLM ULI ZFGLNZGVW ZXXVHH ZMW IVGIRVEZO, ZMW ZXXLNNLWZGRMT
YLFMW ELOFNVH ZMW UIZTROV NZGVIRZO.

GL NZRMGZRM SRTS RNZTV JFZORGB, RNZTV KILXVHHRMT UFMXGRLMH ZIV IVJFRIVW
GL XLIIVXG GSV WVURXRVMXRVH RM GSV HXZMMVW RNZTV.  HLNV XLNNVIXRZOOB
ZEZROZYOV HBHGVNH RMXOFWV GSVHV UFMXGRLMH, DSROV HLNV WL MLG.  GSV
HXZMMVW IZD RNZTV NFHG YV KILXVHHVW GL XLIIVXG XLMGIZHG WVURXRVMXRVH--
YLGS KLLI LEVIZOO XLMGIZHG IVHFOGRMT UILN ORTSG KIRMG ZMW/LI WZIP
YZXPTILFMW, ZMW EZIRZYOV XLMGIZHG IVHFOGRMT UILN HGZRMH ZMW
YOVVW-GSILFTS.  UFIGSVINLIV, GSV HXZM WVMHRGB NFHG YV ZWVJFZGV GL ZOOLD
OVTRYRORGB LU KIRMG ZMW HFUURXRVMG URWVORGB RM GSV KHVFWL-SZOUGLMVW TIZB
NZGVIRZO.  YLIWVIH LI KZTV-VWTV VUUVXGH NFHG YV IVNLEVW ULI YLGS
XLNKZXGRYRORGB ZMW ZVHGSVGRXH.  KZTV HPVD NFHG YV XLIIVXGVW ULI ZVHGSVGRX
IVZHLMH ZMW GL VMZYOV ZXXFIZGV XSZIZXGVI IVXLTMRGRLM RU WVHRIVW.
XLNKLFMW RNZTVH XLMHRHGRMT LU YLGS GDL-GLMVW GVCG ZMW TIZB-HXZOV
ROOFHGIZGRLMH NFHG YV KILXVHHVW ZKKILKIRZGVOB GL IVGZRM GSV JFZORGB LU
VZXS.

HVHHRLM RE-X

QVZM YZILMZH

HGZMWZIWH KFYORXZGRLMH YVRMT WVEVOLKVW YB HXRVMGRHGH, VMTRMVVIH, ZMW
YFHRMVHH NZMZTVIH RM ZHHLXRZGRLM ULI RMULINZGRLM ZMW RNZTV NZMZTVNVMG
(ZRRN) HGZMWZIWH XLNNRGGVVH XZM YV ZKKORVW GL VOVXGILMRX RNZTV NZMZTVNVMG
(VRN) KILXVHHVH RMXOFWRMT:  WLXFNVMG (RNZTV) GIZMHUVI, IVGIRVEZO ZMW
VEZOFZGRLM; LKGRXZO WRHP ZMW WLXFNVMG HXZMMRMT; ZMW WLXFNVMG WVHRTM ZMW
XLMEVIHRLM.  DSVM XLNYRMVW DRGS VRN HBHGVN KOZMMRMT ZMW LKVIZGRLMH,
HGZMWZIWH XZM ZHHRHG RM TVMVIZGRMT RNZTV WZGZYZHVH GSZG ZIV
RMGVIXSZMTVZYOV ZNLMT Z EZIRVGB LU HBHGVNH.  GSV ZKKORXZGRLMH LU
WRUUVIVMG ZKKILZXSVH ULI RNZTV-GZTTRMT, RMWVCRMT, XLNKIVHHRLM, ZMW
GIZMHUVI LUGVM XZFHV FMXVIGZRMGB XLMXVIMRMT VRN HBHGVN XLNKZGRYRORGB,
XZORYIZGRLM, KVIULINZMXV, ZMW FKDZIW XLNKZGRYRORGB, FMGRO HGZMWZIW
RNKOVNVMGZGRLM KZIZNVGVIH ZIV VHGZYORHSVW.  GSV ZRRN HGZMWZIWH GSZG ZIV
YVRMT WVEVOLKVW ULI GSVHV ZKKORXZGRLMH XZM YV FHVW GL WVXIVZHV GSV
FMXVIGZRMGB, HFXXVHHUFOOB RMGVTIZGV RNZTRMT KILXVHHVH, ZMW KILNLGV "LKVM
HBHGVNH."  ZRRN RH ZM ZXXIVWRGVW ZNVIRXZM MZGRLMZO HGZMWZIWH RMHGRGFGV
(ZMHR) HGZMWZIWH WVEVOLKVI DRGS NLIV GSZM GDVMGB XLNNRGGVVH XLNKIRHVW LU
300 ELOFMGVVIH IVKIVHVMGRMT FHVIH, EVMWLIH, ZMW NZMFUZXGFIVIH.  GSV
HGZMWZIWH KFYORXZGRLMH GSZG ZIV WVEVOLKVW RM GSVHV XLNNRGGVVH SZEV
MZGRLMZO ZXXVKGZMXV ZMW KILERWV GSV YZHRH ULI RMGVIMZGRLMZO SZINLMRAZGRLM
RM GSV WVEVOLKNVMG LU MVD RMGVIMZGRLMZO LITZMRAZGRLM ULI HGZMWZIWRAZGRLM
(RHL) HGZMWZIWH.

GSRH KIVHVMGZGRLM WVHXIRYVH GSV WVEVOLKNVMG LU ZRRN'H VRN HGZMWZIWH ZMW Z
MVD VUULIG ZG ZRRN, Z WZGZYZHV LM HGZMWZIWH KILQVXGH RM Z DRWV UIZNVDLIP
LU RNZTRMT RMWFHGIRVH RMXOFWRMT XZKGFIV, IVXLIWRMT, KILXVHHRMT,
WFKORXZGRLM, WRHGIRYFGRLM, WRHKOZB, VEZOFZGRLM, ZMW KIVHVIEZGRLM.  GSV
ZRRN RNZTVIB WZGZYZHV DROO XLEVI RNZTRMT HGZMWZIWH YVRMT WVEVOLKVW YB
NZMB LITZMRAZGRLMH RM NZMB WRUUVIVMG XLFMGIRVH.  RG DROO XLMGZRM
HGZMWZIWH KFYORXZGRLMH' WZGVH, LIRTRMH, IVOZGVW MZGRLMZO ZMW
RMGVIMZGRLMZO KILQVXGH, HGZGFH, PVB DLIWH, ZMW ZYHGIZXGH.  GSV ZMHR RNZTV
GVXSMLOLTB HGZMWZIWH YLZIW IVJFVHGVW GSZG HFXS Z WZGZYZHV YV VHGZYORHSVW,
ZH WRW GSV RHL/RMGVIMZGRLMZO VOVXGILGVXSMRXZO XLNNRHHRLM QLRMG GZHP ULIXV
LM RNZTVIB.  ZRRN DROO GZPV LM GSV OVZWVIHSRK ILOV ULI GSV WZGZYZHV ZMW
XLLIWRMZGV RGH WVEVOLKNVMG DRGS HVEVIZO HGZMWZIWH WVEVOLKVIH.

KZGIRXRZ YZGGRM

     XSZIZXGVIRHGRXH LU HGZMWZIWH ULI WRTRGZO RNZTVIB:

          * MZGFIV LU WRTRGZO GVXSMLOLTB RNKORVH XLMGRMFRMT ELOZGRORGB.

          * KIVXRKRGLFH HGZMWZIW-HVGGRMT MLG KLHHRYOV ZMW KILYZYOB MLG
          WVHRIZYOV.

          * HGZMWZIWH ZIV Z XLNKOVC RHHFV RMELOERMT GSV NVWRFN, GSV
          SZIWDZIV, GSV HLUGDZIV, ZMW GSV GVXSMRXZO XZKZXRGB ULI
          IVKILWFXGREV URWVORGB ZMW XOZIRGB.

          * GSV KILTMLHRH ULI IVORZYOV ZIXSREZO HGZMWZIWH (ZH WVURMVW YB
          ORYIZIRZMH) RM GSV ULIVHVVZYOV UFGFIV RH KLLI.

     HRTMRURXZMG KLGVMGRZO ZMW ZGGIZXGREVMVHH LU WRTRGZO GVXSMLOLTB ZH Z
     KIVHVIEZGRLM NVWRFN ZMW ZXXVHH NVXSZMRHN.

     KILWFXGREV FHV LU WRTRGZO RNZTVIB ULI KIVHVIEZGRLM IVJFRIVH Z
     IVXLMXVKGFZORARMT LU KIVHVIEZGRLM KIRMXRKOVH RM Z ELOZGROV,
     HGZMWZIWOVHH DLIOW.

     XLMXVKG LU NZMZTRMT XLMGRMFRMT ZXXVHH RM GSV WRTRGZO VMERILMNVMG
     IZGSVI GSZM ULXFHRMT LM GSV KVINZMVMXV LU GSV NVWRFN ZMW OLMT-GVIN
     ZIXSREZO HGZMWZIWH WVEVOLKVW ULI GSV ZMZOLT DLIOW.

     GIZMHRGRLM KVIRLW:  SLD OLMT ZMW DSZG GL WL?

          *  IVWVURMV "ZIXSREZO."

          *  IVNLEV GSV YFIWVM LU "ZIXSREZO XLKB" UILN KZKVI ZIGRUZXGH.

          *  FHV WRTRGZO GVXSMLOLTB ULI HGLIZTV, WVEVOLK NZMZTVNVMG
          HGIZGVTRVH ULI IVUIVHSRMT NVWRFN, SZIWDZIV ZMW HLUGDZIV.

          *  XIVZGV ZXRW-UIVV KZKVI XLKRVH ULI GIZMHRGRLM KVIRLW YZXPFK
          FMGRO DV WVEVOLK IVORZYOV KILXVWFIVH ULI VMHFIRMT XLMGRMFRMT
          ZXXVHH GL WRTRGZO UROVH.

HVHHRLM RE-W

HGFZIG DVRYVO            GSV ILOV LU HTNO NZIPFK RM GSV XLIV KILQVXG (6)

GSV VNVITVMXV LU SRTS-HKVVW GVOVXLNNFMRXZGRLMH MVGDLIPH ZH Z YZHRX
UVZGFIV LU GSV HXSLOZIOB DLIPKOZXV RH WIRERMT GSV WVNZMW ULI VOVXGILMRX
WLXFNVMG WVOREVIB.  GSIVV WRHGRMXG XZGVTLIRVH LU VOVXGILMRX
KFYORHSRMT/IVKFYORHSRMT ZIV MVXVHHZIB GL HFKKLIG ZXXVHH WVNZMWH RM GSRH
VNVITRMT VMERILMNVMG:

     1.)  XLMEVIHRLM LU KZKVI LI NRXILURON ZIXSREVH GL VOVXGILMRX ULINZG
     2.)  XLMEVIHRLM LU VOVXGILMRX UROVH GL ULINZGH GZROLIVW GL
          VOVXGILMRX IVGIRVEZO ZMW WRHKOZB
     3.)  KIRNZIB VOVXGILMRX KFYORHSRMT (NZGVIRZOH ULI DSRXS GSV
          VOVXGILMRX EVIHRLM RH GSV KIRNZIB ULINZG)

LXOX SZH VCKVIRNVMGZO LI KILWFXG WVEVOLKNVMG ZXGRERGRVH RM VZXS LU GSVHV
ZIVZH.  ZNLMT GSV XSZOOVMTVH GSZG ORV ZSVZW RH GSV RMGVTIZGRLM LU GSVHV
GSIVV GBKVH LU RMULINZGRLM HGLIVH RM XLSVIVMG WRHGIRYFGVW HBHGVNH.

GSV XLIV (XSVNRHGIB LMORMV IVGIRVEZO VCKVIRNVMG) KILQVXG RH Z NLWVO ULI
GSV XLMEVIHRLM LU OZITV GVCG ZMW TIZKSRXH XLOOVXGRLMH ULI DSRXS
VOVXGILMRX GBKVHVGGRMT UROVH ZIV ZEZROZYOV (XZGVTLIB 2).  GSV ZNVIRXZM
XSVNRXZO HLXRVGB SZH NZWV ZEZROZYOV XLNKFGVI GBKLTIZKSB UROVH WZGRMT UILN
1980 ULI RGH GDVMGB QLFIMZOH.  GSRH XLOOVXGRLM LU HLNV 250 QLFIMZO-BVZIH
RH YVRMT XLMEVIGVW GL ZM VOVXGILMRX ULINZG GSZG DROO YV ZXXVHHRYOV
GSILFTS HVEVIZO VMW-FHVI ZKKORXZGRLMH.

GSV FHV LU HGZMWZIW TVMVIZORAVW NZIPFK OZMTFZTV (HTNO) LUUVIH GSV NVZMH
GL XZKGFIV GSV HGIFXGFIZO IRXSMVHH LU GSV LIRTRMZO ZIGRXOVH RM Z DZB GSZG
DROO HFKKLIG Z EZIRVGB LU IVGIRVEZO, MZERTZGRLM, ZMW WRHKOZB LKGRLMH
MVXVHHZIB GL MZERTZGV VUUVXGREVOB RM EVIB OZITV GVCG WZGZYZHVH.

ZM HTNO WLXFNVMG XLMHRHGH LU GVCG GSZG RH NZIPVW FK DRGS WVHXIRKGREV GZTH
GSZG HKVXRUB GSV UFMXGRLM LU Z TREVM VOVNVMG DRGSRM GSV WLXFNVMG.  ZH Z
ULINZO OZMTFZTV XLMHGIFXG, ZM HTNO WLXFNVMG XZM YV KZIHVW ZTZRMHG Z
WLXFNVMG-GBKV WVURMRGRLM (WGW) GSZG FMZNYRTFLFHOB WVURMVH DSZG VOVNVMGH
ZIV ZOOLDVW ZMW DSVIV RM GSV WLXFNVMG GSVB XZM (LI NFHG) LXXFI.  GSRH
ULINZORAVW NZK LU ZIGRXOV HGIFXGFIV ZOOLDH GSV FHVI RMGVIUZXV WVHRTM GL
YV FMXLFKOVW UILN GSV FMWVIOBRMT WZGZYZHV HBHGVN, ZM RNKLIGZMG HGVK
GLDZIW RMGVILKVIZYRORGB.  WVNLMHGIZGRLM LU GSRH HVKZIZYRORGB RH Z KZIG LU
GSV XLIV KILQVXG, DSVIVRM FHVI RMGVIUZXV WVHRTMH YLIM LU EVIB WRUUVIVMG
KSROLHLKSRVH DROO ZXXVHH GSV HZNV WZGZYZHV.

MLGVH:
     (6)  GSV XLIV KILQVXG RH Z XLOOZYLIZGRLM ZNLMT XLIMVOO FMREVIHRGB'H
     NZMM ORYIZIB, YVOO XLNNFMRXZGRLMH IVHVZIXS (YVOOXLIV), GSV ZNVIRXZM
     XSVNRXZO HLXRVGB (ZXH), GSV XSVNRXZO ZYHGIZXGH HVIERXV (XZH), ZMW
     LXOX.

NRXSZVO OVHP                  GSV XLIV VOVXGILMRX XSVNRHGIB ORYIZIB

Z NZQLI LM-ORMV UROV LU XSVNRXZO QLFIMZO ORGVIZGFIV XLNKOVGV DRGS
TIZKSRXH RH YVRMT WVEVOLKVW GL GVHG GSV FHZYRORGB LU UFOOB VOVXGILMRX
ZXXVHH GL WLXFNVMGH, ZH Z QLRMG KILQVXG LU XLIMVOO FMREVIHRGB, GSV
ZNVIRXZM XSVNRXZO HLXRVGB, GSV XSVNRXZO ZYHGIZXGH HVIERXV, LXOX, ZMW
YVOOXLIV (DRGS ZWWRGRLMZO HFKKLIG UILN HFM NRXILHBHGVNH, HKIRMTVI-EVIOZT,
WRTRGZR VJFRKNVMG XLIKLIZGRLM, HLMB XLIKLIZGRLM LU ZNVIRXZ, ZMW ZKKOV
XLNKFGVIH).  LFI UROV XLMGZRMH GSV ZNVIRXZM XSVNRXZO HLXRVGB'H LM-ORMV
QLFIMZOH, HFKKOVNVMGVW DRGS GSV TIZKSRXH UILN GSV KZKVI KFYORXZGRLM.  GSV
RMWVCRMT LU GSV ZIGRXOVH UILN XSVNRXZO ZYHGIZXGH WLXFNVMGH RH ZEZROZYOV
RM YLGS RNZTV ZMW GVCG ULINZG, ZMW HVEVIZO WRUUVIVMG RMGVIUZXVH XZM YV
FHVW.  LFI TLZOH ZIV (1) GL ZHHVHH GSV VUUVXGREVMVHH ZMW ZXXVKGZYRORGB LU
VOVXGILMRX ZXXVHH GL KIRNZIB QLFIMZOH ZH XLNKZIVW DRGS KZKVI, ZMW (2) GL
RWVMGRUB GSV NLHG WVHRIZYOV UFMXGRLMH LU GSV FHVI RMGVIUZXV GL ZM
VOVXGILMRX HBHGVN LU QLFIMZOH, RMXOFWRMT RM KZIGRXFOZI Z XLNKZIRHLM LU
KZTV-RNZTV WRHKOZB DRGS ZHXRR WRHKOZB RMGVIUZXVH.  VZIOB VCKVIRNVMGH DRGS
XSVNRHGIB HGFWVMGH LM Z EZIRVGB LU GZHPH HFTTVHG GSZG HVZIXSRMT GZHPH ZIV
XLNKOVGVW NFXS UZHGVI DRGS ZMB VOVXGILMRX HBHGVN GSZM DRGS KZKVI, YFG
GSZG ULI IVZWRMT ZOO EVIHRLMH LU GSV ZIGRXOVH ZIV ILFTSOB VJFREZOVMG.

KZNVOZ ZMWIV ZMW QFWRGS ARWZI

GVCG XLMEVIHRLM RH UZI NLIV VCKVMHREV ZMW GRNV-XLMHFNRMT GSZM RNZTV
XZKGFIV ZOLMV.  MZO'H VCKVIRVMXV DRGS LKGRXZO XSZIZXGVI IVXLTMRGRLM (LXI)
DROO YV IVOZGVW ZMW XLNKZIVW DRGS GSV VCKVIRVMXV LU SZERMT GVCG IVPVBVW.
DSZG UZXGLIH ZUUVXG LXI ZXXFIZXB?  SLD ZXXFIZGV WLVH UFOO GVCG SZEV GL YV
RM LIWVI GL YV FHVUFO?  SLD WL WRUUVIVMG FHVIH IVZXG GL RNKVIUVXG GVCG?
GSVHV ZIV JFVHGRLMH GSZG DROO YV VCKOLIVW.  ULI NZMB, Z HVIERXV YFIVZF
NZB YV Z YVGGVI HLOFGRLM GSZM KVIULINRMT GSV DLIP RMSLFHV; GSRH DROO ZOHL
YV WRHXFHHVW.

HVHHRLM ER

NZIBYVGS KVGVIH

XLKBIRTSG OZD KILGVXGH XIVZGREV DLIPH.  KILGVXGRLM TIZMGVW YB GSV OZD GL
ZFGSLIH ZMW WRHHVNRMZGLIH LU DLIPH RMXOFWVH GSV IRTSG GL WL LI ZFGSLIRAV
GSV ULOOLDRMT:  IVKILWFXV GSV DLIP, KIVKZIV WVIREZGREV DLIPH, WRHGIRYFGV
GSV DLIP GL GSV KFYORX, ZMW KFYORXOB KVIULIN LI WRHKOZB GSV DLIP.  RM
ZWWRGRLM, XLKBIRTSG LDMVIH LU HLFMW IVXLIWRMTH ZMW XLNKFGVI KILTIZNH SZEV
GSV IRTSG GL XLMGILO IVMGZO LU GSVRI DLIPH.  GSVHV IRTSGH ZIV MLG
FMORNRGVW; GSVIV ZIV Z MFNYVI LU VCXVKGRLMH ZMW ORNRGZGRLMH.

ZM VOVXGILMRX VMERILMNVMG KOZXVH HGIZRMH LM GSV XLKBIRTSG HBHGVN.
XLKBIRTSG LDMVIH DZMG GL XLMGILO FHVH LU GSVRI DLIP ZMW YV KZRW ULI ZMB
FHV; GSV KFYORX DZMGH JFRXP ZMW VZHB ZXXVHH ZG ORGGOV LI ML XLHG.  GSV
NZIPVGKOZXV RH DLIPRMT RM GSRH ZIVZ.  XLMGIZXGH, TFRWVORMVH LM VOVXGILMRX
FHV, ZMW XLOOVXGREV ORXVMHRMT ZIV RM FHV ZMW YVRMT IVURMVW.

RHHFVH XLMXVIMRMT GSV ZYRORGB GL XSZMTV DLIPH DRGSLFG WVGVXGRLM ZIV NLIV
WRUURXFOG GL WVZO DRGS.  JFVHGRLMH XLMXVIMRMT GSV RMGVTIRGB LU GSV DLIP
ZMW GSV HGZGFH LU GSV XSZMTVW EVIHRLM FMWVI GSV XLKBIRTSG OZD ZIV GL YV
ZWWIVHHVW.  GSVHV ZIV KFYORX KLORXB RHHFVH DSRXS IVJFRIV RMULINVW
WRZOLTFV.


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                ZKKVMWRC RRR:  WRIVXGLIB LU KZIGRXRKZMGH


KIVHVMGVIH:

     KZNVOZ J.Q. ZMWIV
     ZHHLXRZGV WRIVXGLI, ZFGLNZGRLM
     MZGRLMZO ZTIRXFOGFIZO ORYIZIB
     10301 YZOGRNLIV YLFOVEZIW
     YVOGHEROOV, NW 20705-2351
     KSLMV:  (301) 504-6813
     UZC:  (301) 504-7473
     V-NZRO:  RMGVIMVG:  KZMWIV@ZHII.ZIHFHWZ.TLE

     QVZM YZILMZH, HVMRLI NZMZTVI
     WVKZIGNVMG LU HGZMWZIWH ZMW GVXSMLOLTB
     ZHHLXRZGRLM ULI RMULINZGRLM ZMW RNZTV NZMZTVNVMG (ZRRN)
     1100 DZBMV ZEVMFV, HFRGV 1100
     HROEVI HKIRMT, NW 20910
     KSLMV:  (301) 587-8202
     UZC:  (301) 587-2711

     KZGIRXRZ YZGGRM, KIVHRWVMG
     GSV XLNNRHHRLM LM KIVHVIEZGRLM ZMW ZXXVHH
     1400 16GS HGIVVG, M.D.
     HFRGV 740
     DZHSRMTGLM, WX 20036-2217
     KSLMV:  (202) 939-3400
     UZC:  (202) 939-3407
     V-NZRO:  XKZ@TDFEN.YRGMVG

     SLDZIW YVHHVI
     XVMGIV XZMZWRVM W'ZIXSRGVXGFIV
     (XZMZWRZM XVMGVI ULI ZIXSRGVXGFIV)
     1920, IFV YZROV
     NLMGIVZO, JFVYVX S3S 2H6
     XZMZWZ
     KSLMV:  (514) 939-7001
     UZC:  (514) 939-7020
     V-NZRO:  SLDZIW@ORH.KRGG.VWF

     VWDRM Y. YILDMIRTT, VCVXFGREV WRIVXGLI
     NVNVC IVHVZIXS RMHGRGFGV
     422 YLMRGZ ZEVMFV
     ILHVEROOV, XZ 95678
     KSLMV:  (916) 784-2298
     UZC:  (916) 786-7559
     V-NZRO:  YRGMVG:  NVNVC@XZOHGZGV.2

     VIRX N. XZOZOFXZ, ERXV KIVHRWVMG
     XSZWDBXP-SVZOVB, RMX.
     1101 PRMT HGIVVG
     ZOVCZMWIRZ, EZ 223O4
     KSLMV:  (800) 752-05O5
     UZC:  (703) 683-7589

     QZNVH WZOB
     4015 WVVKDLLW ILZW
     YZOGRNLIV, NW 21218-1404
     KSLMV:  (410) 235-0763

     IRXPB VIDZB, ZHHLXRZGV XLLIWRMZGLI
     ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB
     ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH
     KSLMV:  (202) 707-6233
     UZC:  (202) 707-3764

     XZIO UOVRHXSSZFVI, XLLIWRMZGLI
     ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB
     ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH
     KSLMV:  (202) 707-6233
     UZC:  (202) 707-3764

     QLZMMV UIVVNZM
     2000 QVUUVIHLM KZIP ZEVMFV, ML. 7
     XSZIOLGGVHEROOV, EZ  22903

     KILHHVI TRUULIW
     WRIVXGLI ULI HXSLOZIOB KILTIZNH
     ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH
     KSLMV:  (202) 707-1517
     UZC:  (202) 707-9898
     V-NZRO:  KTRU@HVJ1.OLX.TLE

     QZXJFVORMV SVHH, WRIVXGLI
     MZGRLMZO WVNLMHGIZGRLM OZYLIZGLIB
       ULI RMGVIZXGREV RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTRVH
     ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH
     KSLMV:  (202) 707-4157
     UZC:  (202) 707-2829

     HFHZM SLXPVB, WRIVXGLI
     XVMGVI ULI VOVXGILMRX GVCGH RM GSV SFNZMRGRVH (XVGS)
     ZOVCZMWVI ORYIZIB
     IFGTVIH FMREVIHRGB
     169 XLOOVTV ZEVMFV
     MVD YIFMHDRXP, MQ 08903
     KSLMV:  (908) 932-1384
     UZC:  (908) 932-1386
     V-NZRO:  SLXPVB@ALWRZX.IFGTVIH.VWF

     DROORZN O. SLLGLM, ERXV KIVHRWVMG
     YFHRMVHH & GVXSMRXZO WVEVOLKNVMG
       RNZTRMT & RMULINZGRLM HBHGVNH TILFK
     R-MVG
     6430 ILXPOVWTV WIREV, HFRGV 400
     YVGSVHWZ, NW 208O7
     KSLMV:  (301) 564-6750
     UZC:  (513) 564-6867

     ZMMV I. PVMMVB, ZHHLXRZGV WRIVXGLI
     WVKZIGNVMG LU KIVHVIEZGRLM ZMW XLMHVIEZGRLM
     701 LORM ORYIZIB
     XLIMVOO FMREVIHRGB
     RGSZXZ, MB 14853
     KSLMV:  (607) 255-6875
     UZC:  (607) 255-9346
     V-NZRO:  OBWB@XLIMVOOZ.YRGMVG

     ILMZOW O. OZIHVM
     ZHHLXRZGV WRIVXGLI ULI RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTB
     FMREVIHRGB LU NZIBOZMW ZG XLOOVTV KZIP
     ILLN Y0224, NXPVOWRM ORYIZIB
     XLOOVTV KZIP, NW 20742-7011
     KSLMV:  (301) 405-9194
     UZC:  (301) 314-9865
     V-NZRO:  IOZIHVM@ORYI.FNW.VWF

     NZIRZ O. OVYILM, NZMZTRMT VWRGLI
     GSV LMORMV QLFIMZO LU XFIIVMG XORMRXZO GIRZOH
     O333 S HGIVVG, M.D.
     DZHSRMTGLM, WX 20005
     KSLMV:  (202) 326-6735
     UZC:  (202) 842-2868
     V-NZRO:  KFYHZZZH@TDFEN.YRGMVG

     NRXSZVO OVHP, VCVXFGREV WRIVXGLI
     XLNKFGVI HXRVMXV IVHVZIXS
     YVOO XLNNFMRXZGRLMH IVHVZIXS, RMX.
     IN 2Z-385
     445 HLFGS HGIVVG
     NLIIRHGLDM, MQ 07960-O9O0
     KSLMV:  (201) 829-4070
     UZC:  (201) 829-5981
     V-NZRO:  OVHP@YVOOXLIV.XLN (RMGVIMVG) LI YVOOXLIV!OVHP (FFXK)

     XORUULIW Z. OBMXS
     WRIVXGLI, ORYIZIB ZFGLNZGRLM
     FMREVIHRGB LU XZORULIMRZ,
        LUURXV LU GSV KIVHRWVMG
     300 OZPVHRWV WIREV, 8GS UOLLI
     LZPOZMW, XZ 94612-3350
     KSLMV:  (510) 987-0522
     UZC:  (510) 839-3573
     V-NZRO:  XZOFI@FXXNEHZ

     ZEIZ NRXSVOHLM
     MZGRLMZO ZIXSREVH ZMW IVXLIWH ZWNRMRHGIZGRLM
     MHA IN. 14M
     7GS & KVMMHBOEZMRZ, M.D.
     DZHSRMTGLM, W.X. 20408
     KSLMV:  (202) 501-5544
     UZC:  (202) 501-5533
     V-NZRO:  GNR@XF.MRS.TLE

     VOOR NBOLMZH, NZMZTRMT VWRGLI
     KVIHVFH KILQVXG
     WVKZIGNVMG LU GSV XOZHHRXH
     SZIEZIW FMREVIHRGB
     319 YLBOHGLM SZOO
     XZNYIRWTV, NZ 02138
     KSLMV:  (617) 495-9025, (617) 495-0456 (WRIVXG)
     UZC:  (617) 496-8886
     V-NZRO:  VOOR@RPZILH.SZIEZIW.VWF LI VOOR@DQS12.SZIEZIW.VWF

     WZERW DLLWOVB KZXPZIW
     KZXPZIW SFNZMRGRVH RMHGRGFGV
     300 HVXLMW HGIVVG, HFRGV 201
     OLH ZOGLH, XZ 94002
     KSLMV:  (415) 948-0150 (KSR)
     UZC:  (415) 948-5793

     OBMMV P. KVIHLMRFH, ZHHRHGZMG WRIVXGLI
     XLIMVOO RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTRVH ULI
      HXSLOZIOB RMULINZGRLM HLFIXVH
     502 LORM ORYIZIB
     XLIMVOO FMREVIHRGB
     RGSZXZ, MB 14853
     KSLMV:  (607) 255-3393
     UZC:  (607) 255-9346
     V-NZRO:  QIM@XLIMVOOX.YRGMVG

     NZIBYVGS KVGVIH
     KLORXB KOZMMRMT ZWERHVI GL GSV
       IVTRHGVI LU XLKBIRTSGH
     ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH
     LUURXV ON 403
     KSLMV:  (202) 707-8350
     UZC:  (202) 707-8366

     X. NRXSZVO HKVIYVIT-NXJFVVM
     VWRGLI, GVCG VMXLWRMT RMRGRZGREV
     XLNKFGVI XVMGVI (N/X 135)
     FMREVIHRGB LU ROORMLRH ZG XSRXZTL
     YLC 6998
     XSRXZTL, RO 60680
     KSLMV:  (312) 413-0317
     UZC:  (312) 996-6834
     V-NZRO:  F35395@FRXEN..XX.FRX.VWF LI F35395@FRXEN.YRGMVG

     TVLITV I. GSLNZ, XSRVU
     XLNNFMRXZGRLMH VMTRMVVIRMT YIZMXS
     MZGRLMZO ORYIZIB LU NVWRXRMV
     8600 ILXPEROOV KRPV
     YVGSVHWZ, NW 20894
     KSLMV:  (301) 496-4496
     UZC:  (301) 402-0341
     V-NZRO:  GSLNZ@OSX.MON.MRS.TLE

     WLILGSB GDLSRT, VWRGLI
     GSV KZKVIH LU TVLITV DZHSRMTGLM
     504 ZOWVINZM ORYIZIB
     FMREVIHRGB LU ERITRMRZ
     XSZIOLGGVHEROOV, EZ 22903-2498
     KSLMV:  (804) 924-0523
     UZC:  (804) 924-4337

     HFHZM S. EVXXRZ, GVZN OVZWVI
     ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB, FHVI VEZOFZGRLM
     ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH
     ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB VEZOFZGRLM KILQVXG
     KSLMV:  (202) 707-9104
     UZC:  (202) 707-3764
     V-NZRO:  HEVX@HVJ1.OLX.TLE

     WLMZOW Q. DZGVIH, SVZW
     HBHGVNH LUURXV
     BZOV FMREVIHRGB ORYIZIB
     MVD SZEVM, XG 06520
