effort was to be avoided by every means.

HOCKEY informed the Workshop about one major current activity of CETH,
namely a catalogue of machine-readable texts in the humanities.  Held on
RLIN at present, the catalogue has been concentrated on ASCII as opposed
to digitized images of text.  She is exploring ways to improve the
catalogue and make it more widely available, and welcomed suggestions
about these concerns.  CETH owns the records, which are not just
restricted to RLIN, and can distribute them however it wishes.

Taking up LESK's earlier question, BATTIN inquired whether LC, since it
is accepting electronic files and designing a mechanism for dealing with
that rather than putting books on shelves, would become responsible for
the National Copyright Depository of Electronic Materials.  Of course
that could not be accomplished overnight, but it would be something LC
could plan for.  GIFFORD acknowledged that much thought was being devoted
to that set of probOVNH ZMW IVGFIMVW GSV WRHXFHHRLM GL GSV RHHFV IZRHVW
YB OBMXS--DSVGSVI LI MLG KFGGRMT GSV PRMW LU IVXLIWH GSZG YLGS YZGGRM ZMW
SLXPVB SZEV YVVM GZOPRMT ZYLFG RM IORM RH MLG Z HZGRHUZXGLIB HLOFGRLM.
RG HVVNVW GL SRN GSZG IORM ZMHDVIVW OBMXS'H LIRTRMZO KLRMG XLMXVIMRMT
HLNV PRMW LU WRIVXGLIB ULI GSVHV PRMWH LU NZGVIRZOH.  RM Z HRGFZGRLM
DSVIV HLNVYLWB RH ZGGVNKGRMT GL WVXRWV DSVGSVI LI MLG GL HXZM GSRH LI
URON GSZG LI GL OVZIM DSVGSVI LI MLG HLNVLMV SZH ZOIVZWB WLMV HL, OBMXS
HFTTVHGVW, IORM RH SVOKUFO, YFG RG RH MLG SVOKUFO RM GSV XZHV LU Z OLXZO,
LM-ORMV XZGZOLTFV.  UFIGSVI, LMV DLFOW ORPV GL SZEV SVI LI SRH HBHGVN YV
ZDZIV GSZG GSZG VCRHGH RM WRTRGZO ULIN, HL GSZG LMV XZM KIVHVMG RG GL Z
KZGILM, VEVM GSLFTS LMV WRW MLG WRTRGRAV RG, RU RG RH LFG LU XLKBIRTSG.
GSV LMOB DZB GL NZPV GSLHV ORMPZTVH DLFOW YV GL KVIULIN Z GIVNVMWLFH
ZNLFMG LU IVZO-GRNV OLLP-FK, DSRXS DLFOW YV ZDPDZIW ZG YVHG, LI
KVIRLWRXZOOB GL BZMP GSV DSLOV UROV UILN IORM ZMW NZGXS RG ZTZRMHG LMV'H
