
From the outset, the Cornell Xerox Project was predicated on the use of
nonproprietary standards and the use of common protocols when standards
did not exist.  Digital files were created as TIFF images which were
compressed prior to storage using Group 4 CCITT compression.  The Xerox
software is MS DOS based and utilizes off-the shelf programs such as
Microsoft Windows and Wang Image Wizard.  The digital library is designed
to be hardware-independent and to provide interchangeability with other
institutions through network connections.  Access to the digital files
themselves is two-tiered:  Bibliographic records for the computer files
are created in RLIN and Cornell's local system and access into the actual
digital images comprising a book is provided through a document control
structure and a networked image file-server, both of which will be
described.

The presentation will conclude with a discussion of some of the issues
surrounding the use of this technology as a preservation tool (storage,
refreshing, backup).

Pamela ANDRE and Judith ZIDAR

The National Agricultural LRYIZIB (MZO) SZH SZW VCGVMHREV VCKVIRVMXV DRGS
IZHGVI HXZMMRMT LU KIRMGVW NZGVIRZOH.  HRMXV 1987, GSV ORYIZIB SZH
KZIGRXRKZGVW RM GSV MZGRLMZO ZTIRXFOGFIZO GVCG WRTRGRARMT KILQVXG (MZGWK)
Z XLLKVIZGREV VUULIG YVGDVVM MZO ZMW ULIGB-UREV OZMW TIZMG FMREVIHRGB
ORYIZIRVH.  ZM LEVIERVD LU GSV KILQVXG DROO YV KIVHVMGVW, TRERMT RGH
SRHGLIB ZMW MZO'H HGIZGVTB ULI GSV UFGFIV.

ZM RM-WVKGS WRHXFHHRLM LU MZGWK DROO ULOOLD, RMXOFWRMT Z WVHXIRKGRLM LU
GSV HXZMMRMT KILXVHH, UILN GSV TZGSVIRMT LU GSV KIRMGVW NZGVIRZOH GL GSV
ZIXSRERMT LU GSV VOVXGILMRX KZTVH.  GSV GBKV LU VJFRKNVMG IVJFRIVW ULI Z
