material.  Borders or page-edge effects must be removed for both
compactibility and aesthetics.  Page skew must be corrected for aesthetic
reasons and to enable accurate character recognition if desired.
Compound images consisting of both two-toned text and gray-scale
illustrations must be processed appropriately to retain the quality of
each.

SESSION IV-C

Jean BARONAS

Standards publications being developed by scientists, engineers, and
business managers in Association for Information and Image Management
(AIIM) standards committees can be applied to electronic image management
(EIM) processes including:  document (image) transfer, retrieval and
evaluation; optical disk and document scanning; and document design and
conversion.  When combined with EIM system planning and operations,
standards can assist in generating image databases that are
interchangeable among a variety of systems.  The applications of
different approaches for image-tagging, indexing, compression, and
transfer often cause uncertainty concerning EIM system compatibility,
calibration, performance, and upward compatibility, unGRO HGZMWZIW
RNKOVNVMGZGRLM KZIZNVGVIH ZIV VHGZYORHSVW.  GSV ZRRN HGZMWZIWH GSZG ZIV
YVRMT WVEVOLKVW ULI GSVHV ZKKORXZGRLMH XZM YV FHVW GL WVXIVZHV GSV
FMXVIGZRMGB, HFXXVHHUFOOB RMGVTIZGV RNZTRMT KILXVHHVH, ZMW KILNLGV "LKVM
HBHGVNH."  ZRRN RH ZM ZXXIVWRGVW ZNVIRXZM MZGRLMZO HGZMWZIWH RMHGRGFGV
(ZMHR) HGZMWZIWH WVEVOLKVI DRGS NLIV GSZM GDVMGB XLNNRGGVVH XLNKIRHVW LU
300 ELOFMGVVIH IVKIVHVMGRMT FHVIH, EVMWLIH, ZMW NZMFUZXGFIVIH.  GSV
HGZMWZIWH KFYORXZGRLMH GSZG ZIV WVEVOLKVW RM GSVHV XLNNRGGVVH SZEV
MZGRLMZO ZXXVKGZMXV ZMW KILERWV GSV YZHRH ULI RMGVIMZGRLMZO SZINLMRAZGRLM
RM GSV WVEVOLKNVMG LU MVD RMGVIMZGRLMZO LITZMRAZGRLM ULI HGZMWZIWRAZGRLM
(RHL) HGZMWZIWH.

GSRH KIVHVMGZGRLM WVHXIRYVH GSV WVEVOLKNVMG LU ZRRN'H VRN HGZMWZIWH ZMW Z
