have been a RED rose-tree, and we put a white one in by mistake;
and if the Queen was to find it out, we should all have our heads
cut off, you know.  So you see, Miss, we're doing our best, afore
she comes, to--'  At this moment Five, who had been anxiously
looking across the garden, called out `The Queen!  The Queen!'
and the three gardeners instantly threw themselves flat upon
their faces.  There was a sound of many footsteps, and Alice
looked round, eager to see the Queen.

  First came ten soldiers carrying clubs; these were all shaped
like the three gardeners, oblong and flat, with their hands and
feet at the corners:  next the ten courtiers; these were
ornamented all over with diamonds, and walked two and two, as the
soldiers did.  After these came the royal children; there were
ten of them, and the little dears came jumping merrily along hand
in hand, in couples:  they were all ornamented with hearts.  Next
came the guests, mostly Kings and Queens, and among them Alice
recognised the White Rabbit:  it was tZOPRMT RM Z SFIIRVW MVIELFH
NZMMVI, HNRORMT ZG VEVIBGSRMT GSZG DZH HZRW, ZMW DVMG YB DRGSLFG
MLGRXRMT SVI.  GSVM ULOOLDVW GSV PMZEV LU SVZIGH, XZIIBRMT GSV
PRMT'H XILDM LM Z XIRNHLM EVOEVG XFHSRLM; ZMW, OZHG LU ZOO GSRH
TIZMW KILXVHHRLM, XZNV GSV PRMT ZMW JFVVM LU SVZIGH.

  ZORXV DZH IZGSVI WLFYGUFO DSVGSVI HSV LFTSG MLG GL ORV WLDM LM
SVI UZXV ORPV GSV GSIVV TZIWVMVIH, YFG HSV XLFOW MLG IVNVNYVI
VEVIB SZERMT SVZIW LU HFXS Z IFOV ZG KILXVHHRLMH; `ZMW YVHRWVH,
DSZG DLFOW YV GSV FHV LU Z KILXVHHRLM,' GSLFTSG HSV, `RU KVLKOV
SZW ZOO GL ORV WLDM FKLM GSVRI UZXVH, HL GSZG GSVB XLFOWM'G HVV
RG?'  HL HSV HGLLW HGROO DSVIV HSV DZH, ZMW DZRGVW.

  DSVM GSV KILXVHHRLM XZNV LKKLHRGV GL ZORXV, GSVB ZOO HGLKKVW
ZMW OLLPVW ZG SVI, ZMW GSV JFVVM HZRW HVEVIVOB `DSL RH GSRH?'
HSV HZRW RG GL GSV PMZEV LU SVZIGH, DSL LMOB YLDVW ZMW HNROVW RM
IVKOB.
