  `He took me for his housemaid,' she said to herself as she ran.
`How surprised he'll be when he finds out who I am!  But I'd
better take him his fan and gloves--that is, if I can find them.'
As she said this, she came upon a neat little house, on the door
of which was a bright brass plate with the name `W. RABBIT'
engraved upon it.  She went in without knocking, and hurried
upstairs, in great fear lest she should meet the real Mary Ann,
and be turned out of the house before she had found the fan and
gloves.

  `How queer it seems,' Alice said to herself, `to be going
messages for a rabbit!  I suppose Dinah'll be sending me on
messages next!'  And she began fancying the sort of thing that
would happen:  `"Miss Alice!  Come here directly, and get ready
for your walk!" "Coming in a minute, nurse!  But I've got to see
that the mouse doesn't get out."  Only I don't think,' Alice went
on, `that they'd let Dinah stop in the house if it began ordering
people about like that!'

  By this time she had found her way into a tidy little room with
a table in the window, and on it (as she had hoped) a fan and two
or three pairs oZ GMWA ROMGQ EDK FVIXSP:  PRQ PWZA IT FRS ULA LWR
E FKUW HZ FRS FVIXSP, LAR DEL HOBP ZIUDP FU XQYSK PMS EWZO, CRSW
RSE SKQ PAXV HFUW L FMGFBQ SMZFBQ PUEP BZMIW RAEN PMA SWZVDDF-
FVELB.  PRSES NYL RU XQLAS PMHV GMHQ DOPM PMY RHWRV `RCUDQ IY,'
LMF CKSSEPMASSPB VRS NAWMDEKR MG LAR GMF MG ZM RSN SHGV.  `H ADWY
XHHQPMUDI DCFSESPGMDF HV LHES ZM UEZSAR,' PRS PKUC GI MSEPSFU,
`ROARKSSE H KQF HW RCUDE YWAPMUDP; VI H'XV HOBP PSY RUEZ BMHB
XMZBSA WISP.  D KI MHZK HF'BB UYEQ HK PWHN XENPK KFKUA, UHW
ESLFXA H'U AMMGQ PHDKR UZ SQUDP VMNU E GMWA VUZBSA PMUDZ!'

  MG KDR VI HWRYSN, KWR UORM XHUWSE PMLA PRS RKN YSHSQMKR:
