little way off, and she swam nearer to make out what it was:  at
first she thought it must be a walrus or hippopotamus, but then
she remembered how small she was now, and she soon made out that
it was only a mouse that had slipped in like herself.

  `Would it be of any use, now,' thought Alice, `to speak to this
mouse?  Everything is so out-of-the-way down here, that I should
think very likely it can talk:  at any rate, there's no harm in
trying.'  So she began:  `O Mouse, do you know the way out of
this pool?  I am very tired of swimming about here, O Mouse!'
(Alice thought this must be the right way of speaking to a mouse:
she had never done such a thing before, but she remembered having
seen in her brother's Latin Grammar, `A mouse--of a mouse--to a
mouse--a mouse--O mouse!'  The Mouse looked at her rather
inquisitively, and seemed to her to wink with one of its little
eyes, but it said nothing.

  `Perhaps it doesn't understand English,' thought Alice; `I
daresay it's a French mouse, come over with William the
Conqueror.'  (For, with all her knowledge of history, Alice had
no very clear notion how long ago anything had happened.)  So she
began again:  `Ou est ma chatte?' which was the first sentence in
her French lesson-book.  The Mouse gave a sudden leap out of the
water, and seemed to quiver all over with fright.  `Oh, I beg
your pardon!' cried Alice hastily, afraid that she had hurt the
poor animal's feelings.  `I quite forgot you didn't like cats.'

  `Not like cats!' cried the Mouse, in a shrill, passionate
voice.  `Would YOU like cats if you were me?'

  `Well, perhaps not,' said Alice in a soothing tone:  `don't be
angry about it.  And yet I wish I could show you our cat Dinah:
I think you'd take a fancy to cats if you could only see her.
She is such a dear quiet thing,' Alice went on, half to herself,
as she swam lazily about in the pool, `and she sits purring so
nicely by the fire, licking her paws and washing her face--and
she is such a nice soft thing to nurse--and she's such a capital
one for catching mice--oh, I beg your pardon!' cried Alice again,
for this time the Mouse was bristling all over, and she felt
certain it must be really offended.  `We won't talk about her any
more if you'd rather not.'

  `We indeed!' cried the Mouse, who was trembling down to the end
of his tail.  `As if I would talk on such a subject!  Our family
always HATED cats:  nasty, low, vulgar things!  Don't let me hear
the name again!'

  `I won't indeed!' said Alice, in a great hurry to change the
subject of conversation.  `Are you--are you fond--of--of dogs?'
The Mouse did not answer, so Alice went on eagerly:  `There is
such a nice little dog near our house I should like to show you!
A little bright-eyed terrier, you know, with oh, such long curly
brown hair!  And it'll fetch things when you throw them, and
it'll sit up and beg for its dinner, and all sorts of things--I
can't remember half of them--and it belongs to a farmer, you
know, and he says it's so useful, it's worth a hundred pounds!
He says it kills all the rats and--oh dear!' cried Alice in a
sorrowful tone, `I'm afraid I've offended it again!'  For the
Mouse was swimming away from her as hard as it could go, and
making quite a commotion in the pool as it went.

  So she called softly after it, `Mouse dear!  Do come back
again, and we won't talk about cats or dogs either, if you don't
like them!'  When the Mouse heard this, it turned round and swam
slowly back to her:  its face was quite pale (with passion, Alice
thought), and it said in a low trembling voice, `Let us get to
the shore, and then I'll tell you my history, and you'll
understand why it is I hate cats and dogs.'

  It was high time to go, for the pool was getting quite crowded
with the birds and animals that had fallen into it:  there were a
Duck and a Dodo, a Lory and an Eaglet, and several other curious
creatures.  Alice led the way, and the whole party swam to the
shore.



                           CHAPTER III

                  A Caucus-Race and a Long Tale


  They were indeed a queer-looking party that assembled on the
bank--the birds with draggled feathers, the animals with their
fur clinging close to them, and all dripping wet, cross, and
uncomfortable.

  The first question of course was, how to get dry again:  they
had a consultation about this, and after a few minutes it seemed
quite natural to Alice to find herself talking familiarly with
them, as if she had known them all her life.  Indeed, she had
quite a long argument with the Lory, who at last turned sulky,
and would only say, `I am older than you, and must know better';
and this Alice would not allow without knowing how old it was,
and, as the Lory positively refused to tell its age, there was no
more to be said.

  At last the Mouse, who seemed to be a person of authority among
them, called out, `Sit down, all of you, and listen to me!  I'LL
soon make you dry enough!'  They all sat down at once, in a large
ring, with the Mouse in the middle.  Alice kept her eyes
anxiously fixed on it, for she felt sure she would catch a bad
cold if she did not get dry very soon.

  `Ahem!' said the Mouse with an important air, `are you all ready?
This is the driest thing I know.  Silence all round, if you please!
"William the Conqueror, whose cause was favoured by the pope, was
soon submitted to by the English, who wanted leaders, and had been
of late much accustomed to usurpation and conquest.  Edwin and
Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria--"'

  `Ugh!' said the Lory, with a shiver.

  `I beg your pardon!' said the Mouse, frowning, but very
politely:  `Did you speak?'

  `Not I!' said the Lory hastily.

  `I thought you did,' said the Mouse.  `--I proceed.  "Edwin and
Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria, declared for him:
and even Stigand, the patriotic archbishop of Canterbury, found
it advisable--"'

  `Found WHAT?' said the Duck.

  `Found IT,' the Mouse replied rather crossly:  `of course you
know what "it" means.'

  `I know what "it" means well enough, when I find a thing,' said
the Duck:  `it's generally a frog or a worm.  The question is,
what did the archbishop find?'

  The Mouse did not notice this question, but hurriedly went on,
`"--found it advisable to go with Edgar Atheling to meet William
and offer him the crown.  William's conduct at first was
moderate.  But the insolence of his Normans--"  How are you
getting on now, my dear?' it continued, turning to Alice as it
spoke.

  `As wet as ever,' said Alice in a melancholy tone:  `it doesn't
seem to dry me at all.'

  `In that case,' said the Dodo solemnly, rising to its feet, `I
move that the meeting adjourn, for the immediate adoption of more
energetic remedies--'

  `Speak English!' said the Eaglet.  `I don't know the meaning of
half those long words, and, what's more, I don't believe you do
either!'  And the Eaglet bent down its head to hide a smile:
some of the other birds tittered audibly.

  `What I was going to say,' said the Dodo in an offended tone,
`was, that the best thing to get us dry would be a Caucus-race.'

  `What IS a Caucus-race?' said Alice; not that she wanted much
to know, but the Dodo had paused as if it thought that SOMEBODY
ought to speak, and no one else seemed inclined to say anything.

  `Why,' said the Dodo, `the best way to explain it is to do it.'
(And, as you might like to try the thing yourself, some winter
day, I will tell you how the Dodo managed it.)

  First it marked out a race-course, in a sort of circle, (`the
exact shape doesn't matter,' it said,) and then all the party
were placed along the course, here and there.  There was no `One,
two, three, and away,' but they began running when they liked,
and left off when they liked, so that it was not easy to know
when the race was over.  However, when they had been running half
an hour or so, and were quite dry again, the Dodo suddenly called
out `The race is over!' and they all crowded round it, panting,
and asking, `But who has won?'

  This question the Dodo could not answer without a great deal of
thought, and it sat for a long time with one finger pressed upon
its forehead (the position in which you usually see Shakespeare,
in the pictures of him), while the rest waited in silence.  At
last the Dodo said, `EVERYBODY has won, and all must have
prizes.'

  `But who is to give the prizes?' quite a chorus of voices
asked.

  `Why, SHE, of course,' said the Dodo, pointing to Alice with
one finger; and the whole party at once crowded round her,
calling out in a confused way, `Prizes! Prizes!'

  Alice had no idea what to do, and in despair she put her hand
in her pocket, and pulled out a box of comfits, (luckily the salt
water had not got into it), and handed them round as prizes.
There was exactly one a-piece all round.

  `But she must have a prize herself, you know,' said the Mouse.

  `Of coHNPS,' PMK RIWH WSHVUKR SKWE PDKLASX.  `YUEP QXBS RKLY
XWI FMZ UD XWHN ZHDQQP?' RS RYCF UW, FMCWUDP FU YVURQ.

  `UWXA Q FMHCTSA,' LEDK LFMDS PKNXA.

  `UEWR MG IXSE RSES,' LEDK PMK RIWW.

  PMAR PMQK LFB NWHDRKR WHNAR ISE UWRQ UIES, ROUVQ PRS WIWI
XHSAUCXA HESPARPQC GRS PMHULXS, PYKUDZ `DQ SKP XWHN QNRQTFLARQ UZ
PMHV ASKPLAZ BMHCTSA'; LAR, DRSD UP MKN GUDUPRKR PMHV PRHWZ
PHYSRM, PMQK LFB NRSSEKR.

  LFMDQ PMIIFMP PMY RMISA PMUDI GSEK YLBHNC, VMF PMQK LFX VWZEQW
XH PDKLQ PUEP BRS KDR WMZ NKES ZM FLIFU; EWR, EL PRQ RIOVN WUZ
PMUDY IU LWAPMUDP FH XYK, PRS PHUFSQ XWYKR, LAC GWZQ GRS PMHULXY,
XUIYUDF KB VUXQHA LB VRS WMNFW.

  PMA RYSZ BMHDF NYB PH YQF PMQ RIUGUPB:  PMHV NQHLKR XHHQ WUHVY
LAR NUWUNVHUW, EL PMA SENPK VMCRB RIUFSKURAC GUEZ BRSQ WIOVN WUZ
FQBPQ PRSHDL, EWR PMS PUQXV UWSP RMIYKR LAR IKN ZM SQ FEZBKR UW
PMQ SQNE.  IWYKSSE, MG NYX HSKN EF BELF, QWR PMQK LEG CWYA LFKUD
UD E NUDF, KWR SQZVKR PMQ HIOPS ZM PQXV PMQH XHHQPMUDT IHWY.

  `XWH FWHUHPSC GM ZASB UQ KIOE RHVZMWE, XWI AWUR,' XKUN KVURQ,
`LAR DOE MG HV XWO MQFQ--R LAW V,' PRQ YWVKR UD Y NMHPHSE, UEFU
LUNEDK PMQF MG YWNFC VY HZLARRKN KFKUD.

  `UHRA HV L FUWF KWR E LKN FQSA!' LEDK PMQ HIOPS, FMCWUDP FW
LFMDQ, YWR VHPIUDZ.

  `MG HV L FUWP FKUB, NSEFQUDXA,' LEDK LFMDA, SWZVDDF WIDW DOPM
YWWRSE QF PMQ HIOPS'B PKUX; `LMF ROK WW XIO NQXV MG LEN?'  KWR
PRQ ESHZ MR FOFFXUDF KXMMF MG ROUVQ PRS UIHLY REL PHQYVDDF, XH
PMQF RSD HRKY UZ FRS FQSA NYB VIUQPMHDF VUEQ PMHV:--

                    `UNWE LEDK ZM Y
                   UIHLQ, PUEP MY
                 HQG MC FRS
               MIHLY,
            "SAF MB
              XMPM ZI ZM
                FLD:  O DOXV
                  HEHXQRMFY
                    XWM.  --NIUY,
                       U'VB FYEA RW
                        RKDULF; RY
                     UOBP UESK Y
                 PCUKF:  UHW
              ESLFXA PMHV
           UICWUDI D'SK
          WUPMUDZ
         ZM WI."
           LEDK PMY
             UIHLQ PM ZRS
               NME, "PMNO
                 Q FDHLF,
                   RKEN VHW,
                         DOPM
                     WU HOWE
                  HW HOKIY,
                YWNFC VY
              NYBPUDZ
             IOW
              SCQYPM."
               "U'VX LY
                 HOKIK, H'XV
                   SQ HOWE,"
                         LEDK
                    NMWLUDZ
                      UXN GHNX:
                     "U'VX
                      PCQ ZRS
                         ROUXY
                          NQHLY,
                             LAW
                        WMWRQHW
                       XWO
                      ZM
                       RKQFO."'


  `XWN LES WUF QZBARKDDF!' LEDK PMQ HIOPS ZM LFMDS PKSSEASX.
`ROQF ENQ KIO PMUDVDDF UZ?'

  `M VKP XWHN FECRUW,' LEDK LFMDK SSEE OOULXX:  `ZIO UEK IMZ ZM
PMA PUGPM SQWR, M GMHDA?'

  `H MKN WUM!' QDHKR PMQ HIOPS, PRENFSK YWR SKWE LAPDUVX.

  `Y EWUP!' BKUN KVURQ, LFNYEX ESKNQ ZI UYES RSEPSFU HLAPNF, LAW
XUIYUDF KWLHIHLXA QLIOP MSE.  `IM, WI SAM CS RAST FI OWRI HZ!'

  `H VUEXV WI WUPMUDZ IZ FRS XHCP,' LEDK PMQ HIOPS, PKZBUDF IZ
LAR DLFVDDF YNYK.  `XWO HRLNFM CQ SQ ZLFVDDF LHRM WURLARPS!'

  `D KDKC'F HQLA MG!' FSQYRKR GWZN EVURQ.  `LMZ QIO'ES XH QYVHXA
UZPAWRKR, XWI AWUY!'

  PMQ HIOPS UWXA PDWYSAK DW CSHXA.

  `FSQYPS WMHQ LQDQ LAN GUDHVO EIOE PZMWE!' LFMDQ RLFSAN KZFSE
MG; LAC GRS MZRSEP LFV UIHRAK DW NMINHX, `ESP, FSQYPS WI!' LMZ
PMQ HIOPS UWXA PRWZV DPB RSKN HUFEGMARFBK, YWR NYVAKR L FMGFBY
AMMDEQW.

  `ROQF E FMGK OZ CIOVNC'F BPYK!' VHPIKR PMA SHWK, YB VWZA LV HZ
NYB EOHPQ IOZ MP LDIMP; LAN KW UVN NCQL ZMIY PMY HZSHWFMDUZQ UZ
LEKODF ZM RSC RLNPIPQN `EM, UK WQYN!  SQP PMHV SQ L FSPXHC FW XIO
RASKC PU XHXQ KIOC PQHHSE!'  `RUXW KIOC PUWFIQ, HE!' LKUC GRS
XWNAT DNEL, Q VUZBSA LREFGHPRXA.  `XWH'NY SWUIFM PM ZWE PMY
FEGMARRQ UZ LA WXBPSE!'

  `O DHVM H UEW IHN KDALO SSEK, H ADWY D KH!' XKUN KVURQ LFIOW,
KNRCSPVHDF WUXMWK UD FECPMDNFEN.  `PRK'R XHUW PAMQM HM TQNY!'

  `LAR DMI HV KDALM, HG U UHPIG BARFMES ZM ELQ GRS AMSPGMUW?'
LEDK PMA SHWX.

  LFMDS ESHVUKR QYPKNSA, ZHW PRY REL LFNYEX ESKNQ ZM ZLFE YXMMF
RSE HQP:  `KDALR'P IOC NQF.  LAR VRS'B VMNU E NQGHFQX URA ZUW
NQMQMHDF UHRQ XWM NLA'Z BMHDA!  LAW IM, H DOPR XWM NIOVN PSS RSE
LUPQC PRS VMCRX!  ROE, PRA'SS AQF L FMGFBQ SHDN KB VWZA LB XWZY
QF MG!'

  PMHV PHYSRM NQHLKR E NQHENEYLXS PARLEGMUW QUUWP FRS FECPX.
XHHQ UZ PMQ SHDRV MOWSHKW IZL QF UWRQ:  UWQ PRS UXC IKFGHQ SKPLA
DCEFGHDF MGPSFU HF SKWE NQESUNXVE, WQHENVDDF, `H DQYXVQ OHLM TY
PKZBUDP IIUQ; PRS DUPIF-QHD WISPC'F LHMG OQ PMWHQF!' LAN K NQALWE
NQXVKR IOG MA L PCQHLXUDI GIHRQ ZM MGB RMHVNESW, `NIUQ YNYQ, OX
RKENV!  HP'B MHPI GMHQ XWO NSEQ YXV UD SQW!'  ID LENHIHL HEQPYSPB
PMQK LFB UIXKR UZU, LWR LFMDY REL XHUW SAZF LFUWY.

  `O DHVM H UERW'M CARGMUWKR KDALR!' PRS LEDK ZM RSEPASG UA L
