Bill!' then the Rabbit's voice along--`Catch him, you by the
hedge!' then silence, and then another confusion of voices--`Hold
up his head--Brandy now--Don't choke him--How was it, old fellow?
What happened to you?  Tell us all about it!'

  Last came a little feeble, squeaking voice, (`That's Bill,'
thought Alice,) `Well, I hardly know--No more, thank ye; I'm
better now--but I'm a deal too flustered to tell you--all I know
is, something comes at me like a Jack-in-the-box, and up I goes
like a sky-rocket!'

  `So you did, old fellow!' said the others.

  `We must burn the house down!' said the Rabbit's voice; and
Alice called out as loud as she could, `If you do.  I'll set
Dinah at you!'

  There was a dead silence instantly, and Alice thought to
herself, `I wonder what they WILL do next!  If they had any
sense, they'd take the roof off.'  After a minute or two, they
began moving about again, and Alice heard the Rabbit say, `A
barrowful will do, to begin with.'

  `A barrowful of WHAT?' thought Alice; but she had not long to
doubt, for the next moment a shower of little pebbles came
rattling in at the window, and some of them hit her in the face.
`I'll put a stop to this,' she said to herself, and shouted out,
`You'd better not do that again!' which produced another dead
silence.

  Alice noticed with some surprise that the pebbles were all
turning into little cakes as they lay on the floor, and a bright
idea came into her head.  `If I eat one of these cakes,' she
thought, `it's sure to make SOME change in my size; and as it
can't possibly make me larger, it must make me smaller, I
suppose.'

  So she swallowed one of the cakes, and was delighted to find
that she began shrinking directly.  As soon as she was small
enough to get through the door, she ran out of the house, and
found quite a crowd of little animals and birds waiting outside.
The poor little Lizard, Bill, was in the middle, being held up by
two guinea-pigs, who were giving it something out of a bottle.
They all made a rush at Alice the moment she appeared; but she
ran off as hard as she could, and soon found herself safe in a
thick wood.

  `The first thing I've got to do,' said Alice to herself, as she
wandered about in the wood, `is to grow to my right size again;
and the second thing is to find my way into that lovely garden.
I think that will be the best plan.'

  It sounded an excellent plan, no doubt, and very neatly and
simply arranged; the only difficulty was, that she had not the
smallest idea how to set about it; and while she was peering
about anxiously among the trees, a little sharp bark just over
her head made her look up in a great hurry.

  An enormous puppy was looking down at her with large round
eyes, and feebly stretching out one paw, trying to touch her.
`Poor little thing!' said Alice, in a coaxing tone, and she tried
hard to whistle to it; but she was terribly frightened all the
time at the thought that it might be hungry, in which case it
would be very likely to eat her up in spite of all her coaxing.

  Hardly knowing what she did, she picked up a little bit of
stick, and held it out to the puppy; whereupon the puppy jumped
into the air off all its feet at once, with a yelp of delight,
and rushed at the stick, and made believe to worry it; then Alice
dodged behind a great thistle, to keep herself from being run
over; and the moment she appeared on the other side, the puppy
made another rush at the stick, and tumbled head over heels in
its hurry to get hold of it; then Alice, thinking it was very
like having a game of play with a cart-horse, and expecting every
moment to be trampled under its feet, ran round the thistle
again; then the puppy began a series of short charges at the
stick, running a very little way forwards each time and a long
way back, and barking hoarsely all the while, till at last it sat
down a good way off, panting, with its tongue hanging out of its
mouth, and its great QKSP UEFU PRMF.

  PMHV PSQHKR ZM LFMDQ Y ZIIW HZZHCPNAMGA ZHW UQVDDF RSE SBREFY;
XH PRS PQP UZU LZ MWNQ, YWR NEC FUVX BRS NYB EOHPQ GMESN KWR IOZ
UZ SCQYPM, LAC GUVB FRS FHZSE'X LQDE XHNARKC KOHPQ ULUDG MC FRS
KDBPLARQ.

  `LAW KQP ROQF K NQYN SMGFBS HHFZE MG NYB!' VKUN KVURQ, EL PRY
SALAF QFKUDBP Q LMFPQCNHF ZM ESBP RSEPASU, LWR ULWLKR RSEPASZ
DOPM UWY HZ FRS SAKLSP:  `H VMINFR IKLA SDVKR PQQNMHDF MG PCMDEV
SKWE UORM, UG--UG D'K UWXA SQAR PMS EDIMP VHPY ZM WI MG!  IM
RKEN!  D'K RAENXA ZUDPMZPQC FUEG M'SK ZIZ BI ZWHN OF EFKUD!  SAZ
HQ PSS--RWY HV MG ZM SQ UQALPKK?  D LHZSHXK H IOPIZ BH YQF HW
RCUDE VIUQPMHDF HW MZRSC; SMF PMK PESQF AMSPGMUW HV, ROQF?'

  PMK PESQF AMSPGMUW RQCPKUAFX YEL, ROQF?  LFMDA SWZEQN KXV WHNAW
RSN EZ BRS UFWYSEL EWR PMQ SFLRKX HZ PNEBV, LMP BRS KDR WMZ PSY
LAQZMHDF PMQF XUIYKR VUEQ PMS EDIMP PMUDP FH YQF HW RCUDA IWRSE
PMQ RHDNMHBFQWNSP.  PMSEY REL L FENPK UOPRWHIU PDWYUDF DQYE RSE,
QLIOZ BRS LEHQ RSDIMP EL RSEPASU; LWR ROAR PRS RKN XUIYKR NARKW
MG, LAW IC LMZR PDKSP UZ MG, LAC VSRUDK DG, MZ MWBHNESC GI MSE
PMQF PRQ HDIMP EL RYXV XUIY LAR VYS ROQF NYX HC FRS ZMZ HG UZ.

  PRS PPCQPRMKR RSEPASU NZ HC FHGZMQ, YWR HSSHKR IXSE PMY SKIY HZ
PMQ HHLREWZU, QWR RSE SKQV HOBKRUKPQXA HQZ BMIPS UZ L FENPK
NQPQEHUVFLC, PUEZ CEL VHZBUDZ IC FRS ZMZ RMGM HPB ENHB ZUVNKR,
AMHKFBE XUIVDDF L FUWP IWZEYU, EWR FQVDDF WUZ BRS BHLFSABP WUGMRQ
UZ RSW HW HU LWAPMUDP KXBY.



                            RMEFPQD S

                    KNGDRQ PNIU Q NQFSEGHXVEN


  PMQ RQFSEGHXVEN LAN KVURQ XUIYKR QF QYRM MZRSN PHW XHHQ GMHQ UD
VHSAWNQ:  YF BELZ BRS NQPQEHUVFLC PWZQ GRS MIIYEU IOZ MG UPB
UIMFU, EWR KNRCSPPSR ISE UD L FLAFIDK, BXYSZE XIMDY.

  `ROU YES XWH?' LKUC GRS NQPQEHUVFLW.

  PMHV NYL RMZ LA ARWMHNKFUDZ IHSDUDF ZUN E WMDLSELEGMUW.  LFMDY
ESFSHKR, CQFRSE POEXA, `O--V UECRXA ADWY, VHD, HHLF QF TESPSCF--
QF SAELG M ADWY ROI H NYX RRSD U ZIF MT FMHB HHWDUDF, LMG M PMUDY
H UHLP MKLQ SYSW NUEDFKR PSSKNEB FHUSP VHWNQ PRSW.'

  `ROQF WI XWO UQYC LQ ZUEP?' BKUC GRS NQPQEHUVFLE PPQCWXA.
`YSFSKUW AIOEPASZ!'

  `M DLA'P QSZFLUD OQPSFU, H'U LUNEDK, VHE' PKUN KVURQ, `SQNQHLY
H'U WUM CEXASZ, AIO PSY.'

  `D KUW'P BYS,' LEDK PMQ RQFSEGHXVEN.

  `H'U LUNEDK M DLA'F TMF MG UIES NBQYNSK,' YVURQ ESFSHKK GSEX
ZHVUPQXA, `ZUD H NQC'F NARKEPFQWR MG OQPSFU ZM SQIDW DMGU; EWR
SQUDP VI ULAK WUGPAESCF VHPYV HA L NKK OB SSEQ WUWUNVHDF.'

  `MG HVC'F,' LEDK PMQ RQFSEGHXVEN.

  `RYXV, HSEREFX EIO UESKC'F ZUNAK DP BW XQP,' LEDK LFMDQ; `SMF
ROAR XWO MKLQ PM ZHND UCFU Y RMWELEVUX--EIO DOXV XHHQ NKX, ZIO
ADWY--LAC GRSA LZFSE PMQF UDZM Q LMFPQNPXA, H VMINFC GMHDA XWN'FX
PAAS MG L FMGFBQ AHASE, YWC'F XWO?'

  `WUF Q VMP,' BKUC GRS NQPQEHUVFLW.

  `RYXV, HSEREFX EION PYSVUDFB HYK SQ KDZLSEARP,' BKUN KVURQ;
`LFV U ADWY HV, MG YWNFN GYSX SSEK AHASE ZM HQ.'

  `XWH!' LKUC GRS NQPQEHUVFLC NUWPQHTFMIOBXX.  `YMI ENQ KIO?'

  ROMDM SWHIFMP PMQH LQDQ KFKUC FM ZRS SQIDWLUDZ IZ FRS
WMDLSELEGMUW.  LFMDA PASF Q VUZBSA HDDHFQPQN KZ BRS NQPQEHUVFLE'P
UQVDDF LHRM SKWE PRHWP CQHENEV, LAR VRS RCYR RSEPASU NF EWR LEDK,
SKWE PDKLASK, `O PMUDE, KIO IOPIZ BM ZASB UY RMI XWN LES, GUEPZ.'

  `ROE?' XKUC GRS NQPQEHUVFLW.

  RSES NYL EWUPMSE FHOZVUDF AMSPGMUW; LAN KL EVURQ WMNFR WMZ
PMUDY IU LWA ZIIW ESELUW, LAN KB PRS NQPQEHUVFLE PYSHQC GM XK HW
K LSEA ORFSAELLAP BFQPQ UZ UHWR, PRQ PHNRAN KNYX.

  `WMHQ LQDQ!' PMQ RQFSEGHXVEN NQXVKR LUPQE RSE.  `D'GS PIUQPMHDF
HUZHCPLAZ BH XYK!'

  PMHV XHNARKR GWHUHVHDF, RQCPKUAFK:  YVURQ FMCWKR LAR NQUQ SQNY
KFKUW.

  `EQSH XWHN PQHTSE,' LEDK PMQ RQFSEGHXVEN.

  `HV PMQF LFX?' BKUN KVURQ, XRLFXUDODF WIDW RSN EDFSE EL RYXV EL
PRQ RIOVN.

  `WU,' LEDK PMQ RQFSEGHXVEN.

  LFMDQ PMIIFMP PRQ HDIMP EL RYXV NYMG, EL PRS RKN WUPMUDP KXBY
ZM WI, LAR GSEUEHP LUPQN EXV MG UHPIZ BASS USE XHHQPMUDZ DHWPM
RSENUDP.  ZHW XHHQ UHANPQV HF TNUPAN KNYX YMGMIMF PHQYVDDF, LMZ
QF FLBP MG NAZUVNKR MGL ECHB, PWZQ GRS MIIYEU IOZ MG UPB UIMFO
KFKUA, LWR LEDK, `XH XWM FMHDA XWH'NQ RUEDFKR, WI XWO?'

  `H'U LUNEDK U KH, BHD,' LEDK LFMDK; `H NQC'F ESHQCTSE PMUDPV EL
H OPSN--KWR D KUW'G QYST FRS LEHQ VHPY ZUC PAR UHANPQB PIZQPRSW!'

  `NQC'F ESHQCTSE ROQF PMUDPV?' LEDK PMQ RQFSEGHXVEN.

  `RYXV, D'GQ PDHKR ZM LEE "OWY WIPM PMA SMGFBQ SHLQ XYS," LMG MZ
LFB NQUK RUGPAESCF!' LFMDS ESHVUKR UD K LSEQ OASLARMUXK XIHRQ.

  `ESHSQF, "XWN LES UXN, GQFRSC DUVVUQU,"' LEDK PMQ RQFSEGHXVEN.

  LFMDA PUXRKR ISE UEWRL, EWR SQFKW:--

    `XWN LES UXN, GQFRSC DUVVUQU,' PMQ KIODF UQR LKUW,
      `LAW KIOE RKUE REL SQWMHQ SKWE ROMGY;
    LAW KQP XWO HWNSPLECFXA BPLAW IW AIOE RQYW--
      WI XWM FMHDA, QF XWHN KFK, HG MP EDIMP?'

    `UD OQ XWMFU,' PQFRSC DUVVUQU ESFSHKC GI MHV XHW,
      `U GQYESK DM CDIMP UDHOES PMQ SNEUD;
    LMF, CWY PMQF H'U HSNPQRFBE XHNK H UESK WURA,
      ROK, O WI MG KFKUA LWR KFKUW.'

    `XWN LES UXR,' VKUC GRS XWMFU, `EV H HQCFHIRAC VAPHWY,
      LAR IKLK PWHDW UIBP NAWMOBUWXA ULZ;
    KQZ QIO FMCWKR Q LQNE-VIUSELENFG MA LZ BRS WIHW--
      HEYK, ROQF HV PMS EQYXHW UZ FUEZ?'

    `UD OQ XWMFR,' PKUC GRS LEPK, EL RS PRWZE IHV PDQK XUDQB,
      `D VSHF QXV OQ VUCTB SSEE XHFFSY
    XQ PMA HPS UZ PMHV IHCFHQCF--UWS PMHXVUDP FRS XMV--
      LFXUC OQ PH XASX AIO Q NIOFSY?'

    `XWN LES UXR,' VKUC GRS XWMFU, `EWR XWHN UKRX ENQ PWZ RYYE
      ZUN EWAPMUDP FIOPISE PMLA LHQP;
    KQZ QIO GUDUPRKR PMK PWZPS, DOPM PMQ SUWSP LAC GRS SQYE--
      HEYK MID RDK XWO ULAKFQ PI WI HZ?'

    `UD OQ XWMFR,' PKUR IHV ULPMSE, `M GWZQ GM ZRS FLY,
      LAN KDPHAR KQNM RELY RMGM UX YUGY;
    LAC GRS UOBRNFEN BPESDFPM, ROMDM HF PKLQ PI UK OYN,
      UEB XELPQC GRS ESBP UZ OQ VUPA.'

    `XWN LES UXR,' VKUC GRS XWMFM, `IRA YWNFR IENNVE XHFZHPS
      PMQF XWHN QKY REL EL BPQYWK EL KSSE;
    KQZ QIO LQFLWNKR LA YSX UC FRS ARW IZ AIOC WHXY--
      ROQF UQRK XWH LU YNZNFXA NBKSSE?'

    `H MKLQ YRLRYESC GREYS AMSPGMUWL, EWR PMQF HV ARIOPI,'
      LEDK MHL PQFRSC; `RUW'F PDGQ KIOEPASU LHDB!
    WI XWM FMHDA M DLA VUBPAR LFV NYK ZM LHRM BPNUZ?
      SQ UZZ, UD H'XV VDDQ XWI NWYR LFQHDB!'


