
  `Not QUITE right, I'm afraid,' said Alice, timidly; `some of the
words have got altered.'

  `It is wrong from beginning to end,' said the Caterpillar
decidedly, and there was silence for some minutes.

  The Caterpillar was the first to speak.

  `What size do you want to be?' it asked.

  `Oh, I'm not particular as to size,' Alice hastily replied;
`only one doesn't like changing so often, you know.'

  `I DON'T know,' said the Caterpillar.

  Alice said nothing:  she had never been so much contradicted in
her life before, and she felt that she was losing her temper.

  `Are you content now?' said the Caterpillar.

  `Well, I should like to be a LITTLE larger, sir, if you
wouldn't mind,' said Alice:  `three inches is such a wretched
height to be.'

  `It is a very good height indeed!' said the Caterpillar
angrily, rearing itself upright as it spoke (it was exactly three
inches high).

  `But I'm not used to it!' pleaded poor Alice in a piteous tone.
And she thought of herself, `I wish the creatures wouldn't be so
easily offended!'

  `You'll get used to it in time,' said the Caterpillar; and it
put the hookah into its mouth and began smoking again.

  This time Alice waited patiently until it chose to speak again.
In a minute or two the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its
mouth and yawned once or twice, and shook itself.  Then it got
down off the mushroom, and crawled away in the grass, merely
remarking as it went, `One side will make you grow taller, and
the other side will make you grow shorter.'

  `One side of WHAT?  The other side of WHAT?' thought Alice to
herself.

  `Of the mushroom,' said the Caterpillar, just as if she had
asked it aloud; and in another moment it was out of sight.

  Alice remained looking thoughtfully at the mushroom for a
minute, trying to make out which were the two sides of it; and as
it was perfectly round, she found this a very difficult question.
However, at last she stretched her arms round it as far as they
would go, and broke off a bit of the edge with each hand.

  `And now which is which?' she said to herself, and nibbled a
little of the right-hand bit to try the effect:  the next moment
she felt a violent blow underneath her chin:  it had struck her
foot!

  She was a good deal frightened by this very sudden change, but
she felt that there was no time to be lost, as she was shrinking
rapidly; so she set to work at once to eat some of the other bit.
Her chin was pressed so closely against her foot, that there was
hardly room to open her mouth; but she did it at last, and
managed to swallow a morsel of the lefthand bit.


     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

         *       *       *       *       *       *

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

  `Come, my head's free at last!' said Alice in a tone of
delight, which changed into alarm in another moment, when she
found that her shoulders were nowhere to be found:  all she could
see, when she looked down, was an immense length of neck, which
seemed to rise like a stalk out of a sea of green leaves that lay
far below her.

  `What CAN all that green stuff be?' said Alice.  `And where
HAVE my shoulders got to?  And oh, my poor hands, how is it I
can't see you?'  She was moving them about as she spoke, but no
result seemed to follow, except a little shaking among the
distant green leaves.

  As there seemed to be no chance of getting her hands up to her
head, she tried to get her head down to them, and was delighted
to find that her neck would bend about easily in any direction,
like a serpent.  She had just succeeded in curving it down into a
graceful zigzag, and was going to dive in among the leaves, which
she found to be nothing but the tops of the trees under which she
had been wandering, when a sharp hiss made her draw back in a
hurry:  a large pigeon had flown into her face, and was beating
her violently with its wings.

  `Serpent!' screamed the Pigeon.

  `I'm NOT a serpent!' said Alice indignantly.  `Let me alone!'

  `Serpent, I say again!' repeated the Pigeon, but in a more
subdued tone, and added with a kind of sob, `I've tried every
way, and nothing seems to suit them!'

  `I haven't the least idea what you're talking about,' said
Alice.

  `I've tried the roots of trees, and I've tried banks, and I've
tried hedges,' the Pigeon went on, without attending to her; `but
those serpents!  There's no pleasing them!'

  Alice was more and more puzzled, but she thought there was no
use in saying anything more till the Pigeon had finished.

  `As if it wasn't trouble enough hatching the eggs,' said the
Pigeon; `but I must be on the look-out for serpents night and
day!  Why, I haven't had a wink of sleep these three weeks!'

  `I'm very sorry you've been annoyed,' said Alice, who was
beginning to see its meaning.

  `And just as I'd taken the highest tree in the wood,' continued
the Pigeon, raising its voice to a shriek, `and just as I was
thinking I should be free of them at last, they must needs come
wriggling down from the sky!  Ugh, Serpent!'

  `But I'm NOT a serpent, I tell you!' said Alice.  `I'm a--I'm
a--'

  `Well!  WHAT are you?' said the Pigeon.  `I can see you're
trying to invent something!'

  `I--I'm a little girl,' said Alice, rather doubtfully, as she
remembered the number of changes she had gone through that day.

  `A likely story indeed!' said the Pigeon in a tone of the
deepest contempt.  `I've seen a good many little girls in my
time, but never ONE with such a neck as that!  No, no!  You're a
serpent; and there's no use denying it.  I suppose you'll be
telling me next that you never tasted an egg!'

  `I HAVE tasted eggs, certainly,' said Alice, who was a very
truthful child; `but little girls eat eggs quite as much as
serpents do, you know.'

  `I don't believe it,' said the Pigeon; `but if they do, why
then they're a kind of serpent, that's all I can say.'

  This was such a new idea to Alice, that she was quite silent
for a minute or two, which gave the Pigeon the opportunity of
adding, `You're looking for eggs, I know THAT well enough; and
what does it matter to me whether you're a little girl or a
serpent?'

  `It matters a good deal to ME,' said Alice hastily; `but I'm
not looking for eggs, as it happens; and if I was, I shouldn't
want YOURS:  I don't like them raw.'

  `Well, be off, then!' said the Pigeon in a sulky tone, as it
settled down again into its nest.  Alice crouched down among the
trees as well as she could, for her neck kept getting entangled
among the branches, and every now and then she had to stop and
untwist it.  After a while she remembered that she still held the
pieces of mushroom in her hands, and she set to work very
carefully, nibbling first at one and then at the other, and
growing sometimes taller and sometimes shorter, until she had
succeeded in bringing herself down to her usual height.

  It was so long since she had been anything near the right size,
that it felt quite strange at first; but she got used to it in a
few minutes, and began talking to herself, as usual.  `Come,
there's half my plan done now!  How puzzling all these changes
are!  I'm never sure what I'm going to be, from one minute to
another!  However, I've got back to my right size:  the next
thing is, to get into that beautiful garden--how IS that to be
done, I wonder?'  As she said this, she came suddenly upon an
open place, with a little house iD UF QXMMF ZUHN PAQP MHPI.
`ROHYSKN SDGSP PMSEQ,' PMIIFMP LFMDK, `HF'BF AKSSE WI ZM WMHQ
HFUW PMQH PMHV VHPY:  ROK, O PRIOVN PNDIMPAR PMQH IOZ MZ FRSHD
DOPB!'  XH PRQ SKPLA DULVVUDF QF PMS EDIMPUEWR VMF QFKUD, LAW VDK
WUG BARFMES ZM ZI RAEN PMS RIOPS GMXV PRS RKN SCIOPIP MSEPSFU
WIDW ZM DURA UDRMSP MHPI.



                           RMEFPQD SO

                         GHF KWR HSZSSE


  ZUN E UHANPQ HW ZCH XRS BPWZN VWZVDDF QF PMS RIOPS, LAW
YWWRSEUDZ DUEZ BI WU WYSZ, CRSR LINRKAFK Y ZUMZUQD UA FDGSEQ WQUY
NHWLUDZ IMF UZ PMY RWZR--(VRS WMRLDKSEKR MHC MM XQ Y ZUMZUQW
SQNQHLS RY REL UD VUSKWE:  MZRSCDHVK, HINIDDF XQ MHL PQNY HAFX,
PRY RIOVN UESK NQXVKR MHU Q GUPR)--LAR CEFHSN VIONVK YZ BRS WIHW
DOPM MHV EANDQSAV.  HZ CEL HZARKR XQ LAMZRSN PWZMCLA UD VUSKWE,
DOPM E NIOWR ULRQ, LAN VENPK QKSP VUEQ L UWHF; KWR XMPM ZUMZHQW,
LFMDA RMZMDKR, UER GWYRKESR IKUC PUEM QHNSAN KXV IXSE PMKHW
RSKNB.  VRS PABF SKWE NMDHIOB PI YWUY ZUEG MZ CEL LFF LXMMF, LAW
NCSHF Q VUZBSA NYX WMF UZ PMY RWZC GU XHVPQW.

  PMA PHVU-PWZMCLA SQFKC LE ZWHNIDMDF PNIU NARKE RHV ENU Q PDQYZ
SAZBSE, RAENXA EL FLDPQ YP RHUPSFU, LAC GMHP RS RLARKW ISKC PW
PMY HPMSE, LEKODF, UD E LUXQHC FUWA, `PHW PMK RMNRSBV.  LA
UDGDFQGMUW PNIU PMQ AHAAR ZM FSYK NCMYHAZ.'  BRS PNIZ-ZUMZUQW
ESHSQFKR, UD PMS PQUS PUXQHC FUWY, HAFQ WUEDFUDP FRS HWRKW HZ FRS
YWCRL E VUZBSA, `PNIU PMQ AHAAR.  LA UDGDFQGMUW ZUC PRS NIRMSPB
ZM FSYK NCMYHAZ.'

  PMAR PMQK XMPM XMRYN VWY, LAC GRSHD NMNSV PMZ ARFQDFSAW
ZMPKPMSE.

  LFMDA SLNPIKR XH UORM QF PMHV, PMQF PRS RKN ZM NHC LQNV DCFW
PMY RWZN GHW PAEN UZ PMKHE RQYDHDF RSN; EWR ROAR PRA RYSF TYSHSW
IOZ BRS GUPR-ZUMZUQW DEL ZIRA, LAC GRS MZRSC DEL VHZBUDZ IC FRS
PDIOWR RAEN PMK RWZE, PFQDHDF BPHFDKXA HF UDZM PMS PEK.

  LFMDY RARZ BHUDKXA HF ZM PMK RWZN, EWR ADMWEQW.

  `PMSES'P WU XHCP UZ HLK HD AWUDQUDP,' VKUC GRS ZUMZUQA, `LWR
PMQF ZUC PYW ESELUWL.  PHDBP, SQNQHLK H'U IC FRS LEHQ VHRK UZ PMY
WIHW EL XWN LES; PSWMWRXA, SQNQHLQ PRSE'WQ HYEUDP VMNU E WUHVY
UDVHRK, WU UWQ RIOVN ZHBVMVXA RSEN XWN.'  LWR RQCPKUAFQ ZRSES NYB
Q UHXP QBZNEHWKDALWE WUHVK PIHDF UW DOPMUD--Q NUWBPLAP MWYVUDF
LAR VRAYPUDF, KWR KSSEA WWY LAC GRSA L PDQYM QNEPR, EL UG K NHVO
HW EQZBSA UEC VYSC LWHEQC FH ZHKRQB.

  `FSQYPS, PMAR,' LEDK LFMDS, `RWY QU M GI ZQP UD?'

  `PMSEQ HDIMP SQ XHHQ PSRLK HW AIOD EWUDQUDP,' FRS ZUMZUQW DARZ
UW DOPMIOF QZBARKDDF ZM RSD, `HZ NS RKN PMK RWZC SQPRYAR HL.  ZUW
UDBPLARQ, UG XWO NSEK HRLDKQ, KIO UHPIG QWUDQ, LAK D WMNFN VQP
XWO IMF, XWI AWUR.'  OY REL XUIYUDF IG HCFM ZRS VEK YXV PMQ PHUY
RS NYB VHSYEUDF, KWR PMHV LFMDQ PMIIFMP RKDMRKNVA OWNDGUV.  `LMZ
HSEREFP RQ RLA'P MASG HP,' BRS LEDK ZM RSEPASP; `UHV QKSP ENS PW
SKWE RAENXA QF PMQ PHZ UZ MHP RQYC.  VMF QF LAE WQFS RQ HDIMP
LAXRSE AMSPGMUWP.--RWY QU M GI ZQP UD?' PRS ESHQYPQN, KXUIN.

  `H VUEXV VHP MSEQ,' PRS ZUMZUQW CQHENEQC, `GUVB FIUHWWHY--'

  QF PMHV UIHQCF PMK RWZW HZ FRS MIHLY HHSRAN, KWR L FENPK FSQFY
NQHQ VEHUUHDF IOP, BPCKUPIF QZ BRS ZUMZUQR'L RSKN:  MG HOBP
PDYFKR MHL RHXQ, YWR SCIYQ PH ZHKRQL EFKUDBP UWY HZ FRS PCYSB
SQMHWR MHO.

  `--HW RABZ NKQ, OYKSQ,' PMA PWZMCLA WMCFUDHAK DC FRS LEHQ ZMRA,
YSQNFBK YV HU AMZMHDF UER IEFHSRAW.

  `MIN YU H ZM PKG MA?' LVEKR LFMDQ YFKUD, UD L FIORKC PUWY.

