first question, you know.'

  It was, no doubt:  only Alice did not like to be told so.
`It's really dreadful,' she muttered to herself, `the way all the
creatures argue.  It's enough to drive one crazy!'

  The Footman seemed to think this a good opportunity for
repeating his remark, with variations.  `I shall sit here,' he
said, `on and off, for days and days.'

  `But what am I to do?' said Alice.

  `Anything you like,' said the Footman, and began whistling.

  `Oh, there's no use in talking to him,' said Alice desperately:
`he's perfectly idiotic!'  And she opened the door and went in.

  The door led right into a large kitchen, which was full of
smoke from one end to the other:  the Duchess was sitting on a
three-legged stool in the middle, nursing a baby; the cook was
leaning over the fire, stirring a large cauldron which seemed to
be full of soup.

  `There's certainly too much pepper in that soup!' Alice said to
herself, as well as she could for sneezing.

  There was certainly too much of it in the air.  Even the
Duchess sneezed occasionally; and as for the baby, it was
sneezing and howling alternately without a moment's pause.  The
only things in the kitchen that did not sneeze, were the cook,
and a large cat which was sitting on the hearth and grinning from
ear to ear.

  `Please would you tell me,' said Alice, a little timidly, for
she was not quite sure whether it was good manners for her to
speak first, `why your cat grins like that?'

  `It's a Cheshire cat,' said the Duchess, `and that's why.
Pig!'

  She said the last word with such sudden violence that Alice
quite jumped; but she saw in another moment that it was addressed
to the baby, and not to her, so she took courage, and went on
again:--

  `I didn't know that Cheshire cats always grinned; in fact, I
didn't know that cats COULD grin.'

  `They all can,' said the Duchess; `and most of 'em do.'

  `I don't know of any that do,' Alice said very politely,
feeling quite pleased to have got into a conversation.

  `You don't know much,' said the Duchess; `and that's a fact.'

  Alice did not at all like the tone of this remark, and thought
it would be as well to introduce some other subject of
conversation.  While she was trying to fix on one, the cook took
the cauldron of soup off the fire, and at once set to work
throwing everything within her reach at the Duchess and the baby
--the fire-irons came first; then followed a shower of saucepans,
plates, and dishes.  The Duchess took no notice of them even when
they hit her; and the baby was howling so much already, that it
was quite impossible to say whether the blows hurt it or not.

  `Oh, PLEASE mind what you're doing!' cried Alice, jumping up
and down in an agony of terror.  `Oh, there goes his PRECIOUS
nose'; as an unusually large saucepan flew close by it, and very
nearly carried it off.

  `If everybody minded their own business,' the Duchess said in a
hoarse growl, `the world would go round a deal faster than it
does.'

  `Which would NOT be an advantage,' said Alice, who felt very
glad to get an opportunity of showing off a little of her
knowledge.  `Just think of what work it would make with the day
and night!  You see the earth takes twenty-four hours to turn
round on its axis--'

  `Talking of axes,' said the Duchess, `chop off her head!'

  Alice glanced rather anxiously at the cook, to see if she meant
to take the hint; but the cook was busily stirring the soup, and
seemed not to be listening, so she went on again:  `Twenty-four
hours, I THINK; or is it twelve?  I--'

  `Oh, don't bother ME,' said the Duchess; `I never could abide
figures!'  And with that she began nursing her child again,
singing a sort of lullaby to it as she did so, and giving it a
violent shake at the end of every line:

        `Speak roughly to your little boy,
          And beat him when he sneezes:
        He only does it to annoy,
          Because he knows it teases.'

                    CHORUS.

    (In which the cook and the baby joined):--

                `Wow! wow! wow!'

  While the Duchess sang the second verse of the song, she kept
tossing the baby violently up and down, and the poor little thing
howled so, that Alice could hardly hear the words:--

        `I speak severely to my boy,
          I beat him when he sneezes;
        For he can thoroughly enjoy
          The pepper when he pleases!'

                    CHORUS.

                `Wow! wow! wow!'

  `Here! you may nurse it a bit, if you like!' the Duchess said
to Alice, flinging the baby at her as she spoke.  `I must go and
get ready to play croquet with the Queen,' and she hurried out of
the room.  The cook threw a frying-pan after her as she went out,
but it just missed her.

  Alice caught the baby with some difficulty, as it was a queer-
shaped little creature, and held out its arms and legs in all
directions, `just like a star-fish,' thought Alice.  The poor
little thing was snorting like a steam-engine when she caught it,
and kept doubling itself up and straightening itself out again,
so that altogether, for the first minute or two, it was as much
as she could do to hold it.

  As soon as she had made out the proper way of nursing it,
(which was to twist it up into a sort of knot, and then keep
tight hold of its right ear and left foot, so as to prevent its
undoing itself,) she carried it out into the open air.  `IF I
don't take this child away with me,' thought Alice, `they're sure
to kill it in a day or two:  wouldn't it be murder to leave it
behind?'  She said the last words out loud, and the little thing
grunted in reply (it had left off sneezing by this time).  `Don't
grunt,' said Alice; `that's not at all a proper way of expressing
yourself.'

  The baby grunted again, and Alice looked very anxiously into
its face to see what was the matter with it.  There could be no
doubt that it had a VERY turn-up nose, much more like a snout
than a real nose; also its eyes were getting extremely small for
a baby:  altogether Alice did not like the look of the thing at
all.  `But perhaps it was only sobbing,' she thought, and looked
into its eyes again, to see if there were any tears.

  No, there were no tears.  `If you're going to turn into a pig,
my dear,' said Alice, seriously, `I'll have nothing more to do
with you.  Mind now!'  The poor little thing sobbed again (or
grunted, it was impossible to say which), and they went on for
some while in silence.

  Alice was just beginning to think to herself, `Now, what am I
to do with this creature when I get it home?' when it grunted
again, so violently, that she looked down into its face in some
alarm.  This time there could be NO mistake about it:  it was
neither more nor less than a pig, and she felt that it would be
quite absurd for her to carry it further.

  So she set the little creature down, and felt quite relieved to
see it trot away quietly into the wood.  `If it had grown up,'
she said to herself, `it would have made a dreadfully ugly child:
but it makes rather a handsome pig, I think.'  And she began
thinking over other children she knew, who might do very well as
pigs, and was just saying to herself, `if one only knew the right
way to change them--' when she was a little startled by seeing
the Cheshire Cat sitting on a bough of a tree a few yards off.

  The Cat only grinned when it saw Alice.  It looked good-
natured, she thought:  still it had VERY long claws and a great
many teeth, so she felt that it ought to be treated with respect.

  `Cheshire Puss,' she began, rather timidly, as she did not at
all know whether it would like the name:  however, it only
grinned a little wider.  `Come, it's pleased so far,' thought
Alice, and she went on.  `Would you tell me, please, wMHRM NYK O
IOPIZ BI ZU ZWHU MSEY?'

  `PMQF RKHSWRL E ZIIW RKLF UW ROSEQ KIO NYCF ZM PKZ BH,' XKUW
PMQ RQF.

  `D KUW'M CMNM RENY RRSES--' LEDK LFMDY.

  `PMAR MG WISPC'F UQZBSE ROMDO RYK XWI FH,' XKUC GRS NQZ.

  `--XH XUDF EL D IQP XHHQROSEQ,' YVURQ KNRKN KL ER ASZFLALGMUW.

  `IM, XWH'NS PHNQ PI WM ZUEP,' BKUC GRS NQG, `MZ AIO UWXA NYVA
XUDF ARIOPI.'

  LFMDA PASZ BUEZ BMHB RIOVN WUM TK RARHKR, VH XRS PCHKN KWUPMSE
AMSPGMUW.  `ROQF XHCP UZ HSHZSA VUSK QLIOP MSEY?'

  `UD PMQF KDESQMHIC,' FRS NQP BKUR, DKLUDI DPB DHPIF TYN WHNAW,
`VUSKL E UEZBSE:  LAK DC FUEG CHDQRGMUW,' NYGDDF PMY HPMSE FEY,
`VUSKL E UQCNO SENK.  SHVMG KHPMSE XWN FDVQ:  PRSE'WQ SMZM UKN.'

  `LMG M WIC'F NYCF ZM ZI QUUWT IKN HSHZSA,' LFMDS EQHENEQW.

  `IM, XWM NLA'P MAST FUEP,' BKUC GRS NQZ:  `CS'EQ YXV UQR ISEY.
H'U UQW.  KIO'ES UQW.'

  `MID RW XIO ADWY H'U UQR?' VKUN KVURQ.

  `XWO UHLM TS,' PKUC GRS NQZ, `MW EIO YWNFRW'P MKLQ RIUS RSEY.'

  LFMDK RDKC'F PMUDQ GUEF TWHSKK DF QF QXV; MIRYSKE, PRS RYCF UW
`LAR IWY WI XWI AWUC ZUEZ QIO'ES UQW?'

  `ZM SQIDW DMGR,' PKUC GRS NQF, `Q WIP'V WUM CKN.  XWI FNECF
PMQF?'

  `H VHFZHPS XH,' LEDK LFMDY.

  `RYXV, PMAR,' PMQ RQF RYCF UW, `XWH LYS, K NIZ PDWYXB ROAR MG'B
LAPDK, YWR NYPV MGB PKUX NRSD UP'B FSQYPSR.  WWY D IWHNX ROAR H'U
FSQYPSN, KWR NYT IQ ZKUX NRSD U'U QDFWE.  PMSEAPHWK H'O BKN.'

  `M DLFV UF THNDHDF, WUF PWHNXUDP,' VKUN KVURQ.

  `NQXV MG ROQF XWN FDVS,' PKUC GRS NQG.  `CW XIO FSYK NCMYHAZ
DOPM PMQ AHAAR ZM-NKX?'

  `H VMINFN VDVK HG BSEQ OMNR,' PKUN KVURQ, `LMG M UESKC'F SQAR
UDGDPQW KQP.'

  `XWN'FX BYS HQ PMSES,' PKUC GRS NQF, QWR LKDUPRKR.

  LFMDY REL WUM CMNR PHNHEHVKR QF PMHV, PRY REL PKZBUDP VI OPSW
ZM AMYSC PMHDFP REFHSDUDF.  ROUVS PRS NYB XWZVDDF QF PMS HFLRQ
ROSEK HP MKN SQAR, MG LHWVARXA EFHSENKR KFKUW.

  `XQ-PMQ-SKQ, ROQF SQNQHQ UZ PMQ SQLE?' XKUC GRS NQG.  `M'W
RAENXA ZUDPMZPQC FU YVE.'

  `MG FMCWKR UDZM E FDI,' LFMDQ AOHQPXA LEDK, HOBP EL UG MG UEW
WMHQ LQDQ UD L AQFHNLF NYX.

  `M GMIIFMP MG YWNFR,' VKUC GRS NQF, QWR LKDUPRKR KFKUW.

  LFMDY RKUPQN K VUZBSA, UEFU YSHSQMUDP FH XYS MG KFKUC, LMF MG
KDR WMZ EFHSEN, LAN KZFSE Q UUDMFY HC PYW PRY RLFEQW ID UC FRS
KDESQMHID UW DMHRM PMQ HENRM UEES NYB VKUC GU XDGK.  `H'SK PSAR
UEZBSEB LAPHWS,' PRS LEDK ZM RSEPASZ; `FRS UQCNO SENY RUVX LY
UORM PMQ HHXG MCFSESPGMDF, LAR GSEUEHP EL PMHV HV UQK OZ CUW'M TY
NEGDDF UQN--KF BQYBP WUP BI UKN EL MG NYV HC UENRM.'  EL PRS PKUW
PMHV, PRA SWZEQN IF, EWR PMSEY REL PMQ RQF KFKUR, LMGGMDF UW Y
SCLARM UZ Q FESY.

  `KDW KIO LEE ZDI, HW GUP?' VKUC GRS NQZ.

  `H VKUR GDI,' ESFSHKN KVURQ; `LAK D DOPR XWO NIOVNC'F EQSH
