Concurring with these remarks, DALY closed the session with the thought that
the more that producers produced for teachers and for scholars to use with
their students, the more successful their electronic products would prove.

                                 ******

SESSION II.  SHOW AND TELL

Jacqueline HESS, director, National Demonstration Laboratory, served as
moderator of the "show-and-tell" session.  She noted that a
question-and-answer period would follow each presentation.

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
MYLONAS * Overview and content of Perseus * Perseus' primary materials
exist in a system-independent, archival form * A concession * Textual
aspects of Perseus * Tools to use with the Greek text * Prepared indices
and full-text searches in Perseus * English-Greek word search leads to
close study of words and concepts * Navigating Perseus by tracing down
indices * Using the iconography to perform research *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Elli MYLONAS, managing editor, Perseus Project, Harvard University, first
gave an overview of Perseus, a large, collaborative effort based at
Harvard University but with contributors and collaborators located at
numerous universities and colleges in the United States (e.g., Bowdoin,
Maryland, Pomona, Chicago, Virginia).  Funded primarily by the
Annenberg/CPB Project, with additional funding from Apple, Harvard, and
the Packard Humanities Institute, among others, Perseus is a multimedia,
hypertextual database for teaching and research on classical Greek
civilization, which was released in February 1992 in version 1.0 and
distributed by Yale University Press.

Consisting entirely of primary materials, Perseus includes ancient Greek
texts and translations of those texts; catalog entries--that is, museum
catalog entries, not library catalog entries--on vases, sites, coins,
sculpture, and archaeological objects; maps; and a dictionary, among
other sources.  The number of objects and the objects for which catalog
entries exist are accompanied by thousands of color images, which
constitute a major feature of the database.  Perseus contains
approximately 30 megabytes of text, an amount that will double in
subsequent versions.  In addition to these primary materials, the Perseus
Project has been building tools for using them, making access and
navigation easier, the goal being to build part of the electronic
environment discussed earlier in the morning in which students or
scholars can work with their sources.

The demonstration of Perseus will show only a fraction of the real work
that has gone into it, because the project had to face the dilemma of
what to enter when putting something into machine-readable form:  should
one aim for very high quality or make concessions in order to get the
material in?  Since Perseus decided to opt for very high quality, all of
its primary materials exist in a system-independent--insofar as it is
possible to be system-independent--archival form.  Deciding what that
archival form would be and attaining it required much work and thought.
For example, all the texts are marked up in SGML, which will be made
compatible with the guidelines of the Text Encoding Initiative (TEI) when
they are issued.

Drawings are postscript files, not meeting international standards, but
at least designed to go across platforms.  Images, or rather the real
archival forms, consist of the best available slides, which are being
digitized.  Much of the catalog material exists in database form--a form
that the average user could use, manipulate, and display on a personal
computer, but only at great cost.  Thus, this is where the concession
comes in:  All of this rich, well-marked-up information is stripped of
much of its content; the images are converted into bit-maps and the text
into small formatted chunks.  All this information can then be imported
into HyperCard and run on a mid-range Macintosh, which is what Perseus
users have.  This fact has made it possible for Perseus to attain wide
use fairly rapidly.  Without those archival forms the HyperCard version
being demonstrated could not be made easily, and the project could not
have the potential to move to other forms and machines and software as
they appear, none of which information is in Perseus on the CD.

Of the numerous multimedia aspects of Perseus, MYLONAS focused on the
textual.  Part of what makes Perseus such a pleasure to use, MYLONAS
said, is this effort at seamless integration and the ability to move
around both visual and textual material.  Perseus also made the decision
not to attempt to interpret its material any more than one interprets by
selecting.  But, MYLONAS emphasized, Perseus is not courseware:  No
syllabus exists.  There is no effort to define how one teaches a topic
using Perseus, although the project may eventually collect papers by
people who have used it to teach.  Rather, Perseus aims to provide
primary material in a kind of electronic library, an electronic sandbox,
so to say, in which students and scholars who are working on this
material can explore by themselves.  With that, MYLONAS demonstrated
Perseus, beginning with the Perseus gateway, the first thing one sees
upon opening Perseus--an effort in part to solve the contextualizing
problem--which tells the user what the system contains.

MYLONAS demonstrated only a very small portion, beginning with primary
texts and running off the CD-ROM.  Having selected Aeschylus' Prometheus
Bound, which was viewable in Greek and English pretty much in the same
segments together, MYLONAS demonstrated tools to use with the Greek text,
something not possible with a book:  looking up the dictionary entry form
of an unfamiliar word in Greek after subjecting it to Perseus'
morphological analysis for all the texts.  After finding out about a
word, a user may then decide to see if it is used anywhere else in Greek.
Because vast amounts of indexing support all of the primary material, one
can find out where else all forms of a particular Greek word appear--
often not a trivial matter because Greek is highly inflected.  Further,
since the story of Prometheus has to do with the origins of sacrifice, a
user may wish to study and explore sacrifice in Greek literature; by
typing sacrifice into a small window, a user goes to the English-Greek
word list--something one cannot do without the computer (Perseus has
indexed the definitions of its dictionary)--the string sacrifice appears
in the definitions of these sixty-five words.  One may then find out
where any of those words is used in the work(s) of a particular author.
The English definitions are not lemmatized.

All of the indices driving this kind of usage were originally devised for
speed, MYLONAS observed; in other words, all that kind of information--
all forms of all words, where they exist, the dictionary form they belong
to--were collected into databases, which will expedite searching.  Then
it was discovered that one can do things searching in these databases
that could not be done searching in the full texts.  Thus, although there
are full-text searches in Perseus, much of the work is done behind the
scenes, using prepared indices.  Re the indexing that is done behind the
scenes, MYLONAS pointed out that without the SGML forms of the text, it
could not be done effectively.  Much of this indexing is based on the
structures that are made explicit by the SGML tagging.

It was found that one of the things many of Perseus' non-Greek-reading
users do is start from the dictionary and then move into the close study
of words and concepts via this kind of English-Greek word search, by which
means they might select a concept.  This exercise has been assigned to
students in core courses at Harvard--to study a concept by looking for the
English word in the dictionary, finding the Greek words, and then finding
the words in the Greek but, of course, reading across in the English.
That tells them a great deal about what a translation means as well.

Should one also wish to see images that have to do with sacrifice, that
person would go to the object key word search, which allows one to
perform a similar kind of index retrieval on the database of
archaeological objects.  Without words, pictures are useless; Perseus has
not reached the point where it can do much with images that are not
cataloged.  Thus, although it is possible in Perseus with text and images
to navigate by knowing where one wants to end up--for example, a
red-figure vase from the Boston Museum of Fine Arts--one can perform this
kind of navigation very easily by tracing down indices.  MYLONAS
illustrated several generic scenes of sacrifice on vases.  The features
demonstrated derived from Perseus 1.0; version 2.0 will implement even
better means of retrieval.

MYLONAS closed by looking at one of the pictures and noting again that
one can do a great deal of research using the iconography as well as the
texts.  For instance, students in a core course at Harvard this year were
highly interested in Greek concepts of foreigners and representations of
non-Greeks.  So they performed a great deal of research, both with texts
(e.g., Herodotus) and with iconography on vases and coins, on how the
Greeks portrayed non-Greeks.  At the same time, art historians who study
iconography were also interested, and were able to use this material.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Indexing and searchability of all English words in Perseus *
Several features of Perseus 1.0 * Several levels of customization
possible * Perseus used for general education * Perseus' effects on
education * Contextual information in Perseus * Main challenge and
emphasis of Perseus *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Several points emerged in the discussion that followed MYLONAS's presentation.

Although MYLONAS had not demonstrated Perseus' ability to cross-search
documents, she confirmed that all English words in Perseus are indexed
and can be searched.  So, for example, sacrifice could have been searched
in all texts, the historical essay, and all the catalogue entries with
their descriptions--in short, in all of Perseus.

Boolean logic is not in Perseus 1.0 but will be added to the next
version, although an effort is being made not to restrict Perseus to a
database in which one just performs searching, Boolean or otherwise.  It
is possible to move laterally through the documents by selecting a word
one is interested in and selecting an area of information one is
interested in and trying to look that word up in that area.

Since Perseus was developed in HyperCard, several levels of customization
are possible.  Simple authoring tools exist that allow one to create
annotated paths through the information, which are useful for note-taking
and for guided tours for teaching purposes and for expository writing.
With a little more ingenuity it is possible to begin to add or substitute
material in Perseus.

Perseus has not been used so much for classics education as for general
education, where it seemed to have an impact on the students in the core
course at Harvard (a general required course that students must take in
certain areas).  Students were able to use primary material much more.

The Perseus Project has an evaluation team at the University of Maryland
that has been documenting Perseus' effects on education.  Perseus is very
popular, and anecdotal evidence indicates that it is having an effect at
places other than Harvard, for example, test sites at Ball State
University, Drury College, and numerous small places where opportunities
to use vast amounts of primary data may not exist.  One documented effect
is that archaeological, anthropological, and philological research is
being done by the same person instead of by three different people.

The contextual information in Perseus includes an overview essay, a
fairly linear historical essay on the fifth century B.C. that provides
links into the primary material (e.g., Herodotus, Thucydides, and
Plutarch), via small gray underscoring (on the screen) of linked
passages.  These are handmade links into other material.

To different extents, most of the production work was done at Harvard,
where the people and the equipment are located.  Much of the
collaborative activity involved data collection and structuring, because
the main challenge and the emphasis of Perseus is the gathering of
primary material, that is, building a useful environment for studying
classical Greece, collecting data, and making it useful.
Systems-building is definitely not the main concern.  Thus, much of the
work has involved writing essays, collecting information, rewriting it,
and tagging it.  That can be done off site.  The creative link for the
overview essay as well as for both systems and data was collaborative,
and was forged via E-mail and paper mail with professors at Pomona and
Bowdoin.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
CALALUCA * PLD's principal focus and contribution to scholarship *
Various questions preparatory to beginning the project * Basis for
project * Basic rule in converting PLD * Concerning the images in PLD *
Running PLD under a variety of retrieval softwares * Encoding the
database a hard-fought issue * Various features demonstrated * Importance
of user documentation * Limitations of the CD-ROM version *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Eric CALALUCA, vice president, Chadwyck-Healey, Inc., demonstrated a
software interpretation of the Patrologia Latina Database (PLD).  PLD's
principal focus from the beginning of the project about three-and-a-half
years ago was on converting Migne's Latin series, and in the end,
CALALUCA suggested, conversion of the text will be the major contribution
to scholarship.  CALALUCA stressed that, as possibly the only private
publishing organization at the Workshop, Chadwyck-Healey had sought no
federal funds or national foundation support before embarking upon the
project, but instead had relied upon a great deal of homework and
marketing to accomplish the task of conversion.

Ever since the possibilities of computer-searching have emerged, scholars
in the field of late ancient and early medieval studies (philosophers,
theologians, classicists, and those studying the history of natural law
and the history of the legal development of Western civilization) have
been longing for a fully searchable version of Western literature, for
example, all the texts of Augustine and Bernard of Clairvaux and
Boethius, not to mention all the secondary and tertiary authors.

Various questions arose, CALALUCA said.  Should one convert Migne?
Should the database be encoded?  Is it necessary to do that?  How should
it be delivered?  What about CD-ROM?  Since this is a transitional
medium, why even bother to create software to run on a CD-ROM?  Since
everybody knows people will be networking information, why go to the
trouble--which is far greater with CD-ROM than with the production of
magnetic data?  Finally, how does one make the data available?  Can many
of the hurdles to using electronic information that some publishers have
imposed upon databases be eliminated?

The PLD prIHQRZ CEL LQPSW IC FRS HEUDDMFSQ PUEM QIUFHPQE-PQYCNMHDF UZ
PQBZV HB HHXP QZLQRGMSK ROAR MG HV WIRA DOPM L FENPK NKFQLQPS.  SQNQHLY
FSR CSHESPSCFKR Q NUXSAQMHIC FUEP BSESKB VI ULAK WHVDMFSUDSP QNWHBV XH
UQWA HSDHIWV, HZ CEL HDESVHBPMVSA.

PMQ SELMD NHSA UD WMDLSEGMDF FSR DEL ZM WI WU UECH, ZM KLIHC GRS VHRL UZ
UDPCHLHID UR LMNU E NKFQLQPS:  WU UDPCIWMNGMUW UZ RARYE SKDGMUWL, RW
UW-PMS-PZHM QUEDFSP, WU SEKNMDQFUDZ IU LXV ZHBVMVSA ULXBSRWZRV PNIU LA
KRMGHIC.  FMOP, HVN HV WUZ BRS GUALF LQM UD ASQRPCUWMD FHLXHVMHDF ZUW
PMHV KDBRHGVURA, LMP BHUFSQ ZRS SQIDWLUDP.  FRS WMDLSEVHUW UZ FSR IEL
KSIYKR ANHQWHHL NALAGMDMFEPQC KHABPHIRL:  MIY ZUVV UAUHWUQGMUW SQ HLKR?
ROQF QLIOF CQPYWDEUDT?  DLA PMS EDIMPX HU L NKFQLQPS SQ HEMZQRPQW?
PRIOVN UWS HWHPQQM PMS EDIMPX HU L NKFQLQPS?  MID NLA MG SQ UQRK
KLKUFLLXY?

PMHXQ RUWSKCPUDP TVN LFXH PCHKC GU YXIDK PMS PUDX HZ UUHBVHIC, FUEG MB,
YSNBINUDP THWGMUWX HZ FRS WMXVQRGMUWX HC DMISA PSQMHIRL.  ROQF QLIOZ BRS
HUKFSP?  FSK DL PNFX UG UUQPKB, VIUQ YES YSPCQHASE ZHIHL
DURAPQARPM-RQCFHNE WSHESPSCFQFHIRL UZ PMA PQFRSEP, ROUVY HPMSEB RUWFQUD
MHPIXA UDPQESBPUDP KSAHQCFB.  PRS ZILF NYB PM WIXSE LFB FRS PQBZ UZ UHFDY
(UDNBINUDF DMZSP, UD PDYSE YWR UD RSSCYR, PMA SQFPQW HZ NMHRM, UD
FECPMDNFEN, NQHLSP HEMXSAHB UD NCQYGMDF E LQYCNR PPCMNFMES), LFB FRS
UDKDRQL, EWR KSAR PMK HUQPKX, RMHRM ENQ SKHDF BRLARAK DR LSHENQFASX
PSENRMQLSA GUSAB.

PSSKNEF AHWPM QUSEMDLA UDBPMGMFHIRL PMQF UESK FSQNKR QNAMHVMGHIW CQAHABPB
ZUC PRS FSW VQFQLELS RKLS EQAHABPKR MG UD UQFDQPMD ZUCH DOPMIOP BUZZCENY,
ROMDM UQYRL PMQK ENQ YSNQYWK NHWLUDI DZ CMGMIMF XHZFNYES, DOPMIOZ
LAQZMHDF RKUIRLPCQFKR QF PMY RHWEVMIZ.

ROQF NQWLMZ HEQNGMNQXVQ XK RUWK HV PM XQNE YWR ESWMDLSEF QWR ES-ARWMRK
NKFQ, Q FHUQ-RUWLHUHDF LAR KBZESHQXA WMBPXA ARPQEHDHPS.  NQFLFNNQ PSSP
FSN KL E NKFQLQPS PMQF NQA, LWR PRIOVN, SQ NHA NWRSE K LENHKZQ UZ
ESPCHKLKX BUZZCENSP.  PMHV DOXV HSCHMG PMY RDKSPF THXVHLXS PQYCNRSB.
WMRLQAHACFXA, PMA RYSC GH ZWHNIRQ Q NR-CIU UZ FSN, KX RASF LB PI WKSASHZ
XHZFNYES PMQF WMNFR ILANVS PIUK 1.3 PDIQLQZY HP UQYGDXA ARWMRKC GYSZ,
RKSKXUHSW IMF UZ WMDLSELEGMUWX RMGM RUXSAQMHIW RKSASHZHQCF LAR CAPSEARRQ
VUSCENUKRL ROW YLAPQR VUZZCENQ SMZM RIUFEBVHIALPQ ARIOPI ZUC PRS
HSRKBPDHLA LMF QXBM WEFQLSA UZ UDWMEHHWQFUDP FRS UIBP RKFQUVKR
SAVOWMPDEFMHNQX BFMKDSP PMQF L NPSC RSPHDSP ZM WMWRMNG.  MC FRS ARC, GRS
ARWMKDDF LAR NUWSKEPHIW UZ FRS NKFQ DOXV HEIXQ PRS UIBP ARNIDHDF
PQBPQUARZ BM ZRS LKFNY HZ FRS HEIHQRZ.

PMY SWNIWUDZ IZ FRS NKFQLQPS NYL EXBU Y UECR-ZUIFMP HVLHK:  RDK PMY
NKFQLQPS RAKR ZM SQ ARWMRKR? DSEQ PRSES WUCHQFDGS PPCMNFMESL PHW ARWMKDDF
MOUQDUBP PQBZB?  VMINFK DM TS PTIX?  NUEF QXMMF PMQ PKH--DOXV MG FLBP,
DOXV MG HEIXA HPSUNB?  NLFLFMNY QSZESBVKR XHHQ UHWUC RIOTML EB PW YRSPMSE
K NQFQ LLAQ DLA SQ UNXVQ ZKH-WMAUHWUQCF.  KSSEK QZLHWM QLA SQ UQRK, LMZ
UD PMY SWR ZM SQ PQM-DUWZUCHLAM CQYRL ZM QNRQTF PMA RYSC GI UYES PIUY
GUCH ARWMKDDF RKDMVHUWB PUEM QLA, UDRKKR, SQ KDPHMFKR.  PMQ PKH ZHUDPB
PMS HMLVUPRSE UD E FWHHSC RHDQRGMUW LMG CHYL RMZ HESPOUQ PI UYEQ YXV PMY
RKDMVHUWL PHW MHU IE RSE.  SPPSCFUKXVQ, ZRS ZILF UZ ARWMKDDF NYB PW
ASHUUDQFQ, YB HMNU EP HHXVHLXQ, PRS MHWRNEWNSP ZM UDZUCHQFHIW-LQPYWDEUDZ,
XH PMQF UG LA UDBPMGMFHIA LQBOHESL E NKFQLQPS, KSSEQXIWK YBVMWUKPQR DMGO
PMK HRLGMFMGMUW NQR UKLQ YWBSPB PI HZ.

NQFLFNNQ RKUIRLPCQFKR E FHWGMUW UZ XIFNHQ 160, SQNQHLK HP MKN PMQ HHXZ
LAIULFHKV HD UZ.  BRS XHZFNYES NYB RESQFKR XQ ASQRPCUWMD XMIY
PQRMWUXUIDSP UZ HEIXDKARRQ, DH, LAK DB RLFSAW VAWQFYSZ.  BRS XHZFNYES
YWDEX HAFX YMGR PTIB-NIWKR NKFQ.

GDYRUDF K FQLXY HT NUWPQCFX HC FRS BRESAR, PMQ YINHKWNS PYN MID RAWQFYSZ
PCQYPB QYRM ASQHARF QL E XMIY LAN KZBQHTFB PH XHUFSUGQ OIXQHARZ BREIOPI Y
XIFNHQ.  ULUHVUENMGX YMGM PRS FEPCUXIZUK UD HEUDG (M.Q., PRS PQBZ, MGB
XHHNRQ, LAC GRS KRMGHIRL) DOXV UQEQ PMQ HQNMHRA-ESKNQLSA SKEPHIRL MHPIXA
HLAPNF.  (XHZFNYES DOPM Y NUDWIRX EFFSMDQFHIW DEL XHIFMP ZUE HVN,
NQFLFNNQ LEDK, SQNQHLQ PMHX REL PMQ HKUC FESWR ZUE PRMUXENXA HLY.)

NQFLFNNQ LFXH RKUIRLPCQFKR MIN Y HLSE NQR FSEZUCH K LENHKZQ UZ PSENRMSP
LAC KOHDQXA UISK ZM LAE ZENZ MU L XIFNHQ; PMA SWZA-IH PNCYSR FWHGDRKB
XHHQ LQVHR, BHUFSY RHWR-VQYCNMHDF.

NQFLFNNQ ENFIKR PMQF UWY HZ FRS UQHIC RUGGUNMBFHKV HL RMZ PMS PUZZCENY.
NEPMSE, UD NCQYGMDF E FWHNIQM PMQF DOXV SQ HLKR XQ BRMIFLEP ESHESPARGMDF
Q LWHKN PHQRPCOU UZ WMHTMFSE XHHRHVGMNQGMUW,  HLSE WINMHQCFQFHIR FWHSKB
ZM SQ PMQ HHXG MHTHWFQCF PSDSMDY HRA NQR FWHGDRK.

NQFLFNNQ RABZ UVFNBPNEPQN K PCNANQPQR VQYCNM OWRSE OQBPSEHOO CMGMHC FAR
YWCRX HG LHDFML EWR MIY WRA YWNFC VQ YLXQ PU ZUDK DPB WMCFARPB PMWHIFMIMF
PMY SCFHDK RQFQLELS.  RS PKUC GUEZ BRS YSDMGMDF PMUDF KXMMF FSK DB PUEZ
UQWA UZ PMQ YZSVUNQGMUWV HC FRS ESPCHKLKX BUZZCENQ SKHDF DCMGPQA UHW MG
DOXV YSRQKR PMQ REFQLUVMGHKX HZ FRS XHZFNYES QHFSWXKR WUN ZHW PMQ RR-CIU
SKEPHIC.  FRS NR-WHU TQNSP PKANUDA SHUMGQFHIRL, UD PQCHX HP LHSKR LAW
WMHTESRSRLDGARSPV, HC FRS NCQYGMUW UZ E NQPDHKSLF XHZFNYES ZM NHD UZ.
NQFLFNNQ LEDK RS MIHSC GUEG MWRDGDKNLX BRMUXENX RUVV NWYAFUYC GRS NKFQ,
UG PMQK DOPR, ZM PMKHE HSEXHALB NIUFHPQEP, LAR IKLS EQYWK QNRQBV ZM
HUZHCPLAZ BYSPB UW Q NUWBPLAM TELHV, ROMDM PRSX YUVX LQ YLXQ PI OPS UD
PMKHW SSPQYCNU EWR PNIU ROMDM PRSQ ODIMP KSAR SQ QLSA ZM FHLXHVO.

(NQFLFNNQ YSFSKURAC GUEZ BRS LXHA ANCTSEP ESHESPSCFKR UHFDS'P WMFNUC ANCTSEB,
ROMDU EES PMS PFQWRENR VRMUXENXA ESPAESWNSP.  FHXVUDF IF E WUPQ, RS BPQFKR
PMQF PMSPQ PYSPB RYES RSKLUVK QKDPQN KWR PMK HUQPK GUSAX RIOVN EFHSEN VHHTXA
EL L AMZQ YX RASX, BM ZUEZ MRA WMNFC KOHDQXA QNRQBV LA HUKFY.)

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
UFKHBROSLNSE/SENYE * XKSSELF HEMXSAHB DOPM ROMDU EU HB VGMXV DCSPFBUDZ *
LKDHIOB VQYCNU EWR ESPCHKLKB NEFQLUVMGHKV * HXVHLPCQFHIW UU LMFIUQFMD
BPQHUHDF LAN K PCNANQPQR VQYCNU * EH'B QFPQHTZ BU ZUDR DYKB PM WUWRAQM
NQFQXUIDDF ZM PMQ PYSPB * QU'V PNEGDFQGMUW ZMNYCRB VTIX * BPCDVUDF K
LQFLWNQ SQPRYAR AMLAGMZQ LAC KNLVUZQ * MIN YU THNDUPRSP HLSEP EQRIOEPQ PW
HUKFSP * WMWRMNGMDF E LQYCNM HA L UNXV-PQBZ ARGDWHCUARM * CQNUDZMPR LAW
MVH TWHZMZQHSX HU LO * BNFGMHQKDY LPHQRPB UZ QU *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

K NQHUWBPNEGMUW UZ QUSEMDLA HQUIWE XQ MGB RWZCRUDQFHW, NQNS UFKHBROSLNSE,
LAR CMDEK SENYK, YBVMWUKPQ WMHWKDALZMN, SMVNEWE UZ WMDFESBV, WMWNFNRKW
PMQ HHWDUDF PSBVHIC.  LKPUDDUDF DOPM Q NUXSAQMHIW UT LWHKNVHRKL PWHC MRS
WMCFUDARFQB NUWPDSPL EWR PMQ RUWBPMGMFHIALB NUWSKCFHIC, FRS UWXA PQBZ
WMXVQRGMUW UD E FESPSCFQLSA ZUCH QF PMQ PHUY HZ FRS YWDEPRHZ, UFKHBROSLNSE
MHPIVUPIPQR VKSSELF UZ PMS HWHLXQHX RMGO RMHRM QU HV BPUVX NESBPVUDF.
(UD MGL PUDLF ZUCH, PMK RHVY DUVB NUWFQUD ZCM WUXSAQMHIRL, WUZ MAFQ ZRS
SCUYRVDKSP LMF QXBM ZRS UNXV PQBZ DOPM UVFNBPNEGMUWX HU L PSZ MZ
EFHEWZHUQFASK 300 YPNMDLA-QUSEMDLA FEHTUSQPL PWHC MRS HSDHIW 1870 ZM 1910.)

EL PNYSUQR UKN YSFSKURAR KENVUSE, QU UEL EZBQHTFKR ZM HLQ Y BHLFF LUINAZ
UZ UDPQEHESFQGMUW ZM UDPCIWMNQ RUXSAQMHIRL.  UD PMS HESPSCF NQPS, PMY
WMCFNEQMHW, Q NIUFEWA ALHQC KOHDQ XHHNRQ, UD VHXSSE PHDHDF, IC., HLKR
XHZFNYES NQXVKR ZMUXXMIY LAR GMF ZMPKPMSE Q UIWSPFBK OCFSEQNGMSK
UDPCIWMNGMUW ZM PMQ RUXSAQMHIA.  FDVQ PRS ZCH ZESRQKDDF PHQYEQEP,
UFKHBROSLNSE ENFIKR PMQF PMS EQYF LBVQP NYB PRS NARKNSKODF WMXVQRGMUW.

UFKHBROSLNSE HEMWYSRKC GI WSPNCMVK SENHIHL PSENRM LAR CQPDHKSLF
NQFEVMVUGMSP ROUVY SCDYK YWDEKR PMQ RIUFHPQD.  HC FMHP HENGMNMFLE HQNEYPK
PMK "PM ZH" ZNFV-NWYA LXVWYKR PMA HPSD HR AZLQRZ BI HOUZ HMF UZ ZMUXXMIY,
ROSEQ PRS UDPQNEQMDGS HWHPDQU NYB XMWQFKR, LAR KCFSE PMQ PMHCR-FECPX
XHZFNYES HLKR XQ QU ZUC PMHB PYSM QUXSAQMHIW, DMHRM HV NQXVKR HSEPUWLF
VUSCENUKC.  FMHX REL PMY RUDWIRX SKEPHIW UZ TSEXHALX VMVNEDHLA, Y
XHZFNYES EFFSMDQFHIR FMF ZMPKPMSE XQ Q NIUFEWA UD WHDQGDXVQ, HW.

VHWNQ PRS SCUYRVDKSP NQHQ PNIU PMS EKSUXMFHIALWE NYE HSEHIN, K PSENRM NYB
WMWRMNPQN IVHDF PMY RHWRV SCMGHVM IC DEN, DOPM PMK RAPLNBF HZSEQFHW ESPSZ
EL HW.  UFKHBROSLNSE RKUIRLPCQFKR XMPM LNZMUQGMR BPQOBUDZ (DMHRM GUWRB
MZRSN PHWHB UZ PMS PQUS EWZF) QWR Q FNHWNQFKR PSENRM.  UWY HZ TSEXHALX
VUSCENUKR'L BPWHDFSPF ZQYFMESB, PRS ESSALKWNS ELAVDDF, NYP ESHESPSCFKR XQ
Q NUECP PMQF UDKDNQPQR IWY UZPQW DHWRV SQUDP VIOPIF QZSQYESK DW
WINMHQCFX, RMGM PRS UWS EQRKHGDDF PMQ HHXP "MMGX" HTMKUDUDF PMS RDIRSBP
BRHWQ.  PRS "MHF BHVZ" BUEG MB VHFFSHKC GYESP PMS EASKSLARQ NEDAUDI DCFW
QNWMNAM, CYEUDP FRS GUEPP MMG, UD APPAQM, PMY HRA PMS PUZZCENS REL
PSSAQMKR EL PMQ HHXP CASKSLAP QLYHTSA.
