the use of classical scholars.  There are perhaps 400 IBYCUS computers in
the country, most of which are in university classics departments.
Ultimately, it is anticipated that the CD-ROM edition of the Founding
Fathers documents will run on any IBM-compatible or Macintosh computer
with a CD-ROM drive.  Numerous changes in the software will also occur
before the project is completed.  (Editor's note: an IBYCUS was
unavailable to demonstrate the CD-ROM.)

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Several additional features of WPP clarified *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Discussion following TWOHIG's presentation served to clarify several
additional features, including (1) that the project's primary
intellectual product consists in the electronic transcription of the
material; (2) that the text transmitted to the CD-ROM people is not
marked up; (3) that cataloging and subject-indexing of the material
remain to be worked out (though at this point material can be retrieved
by name); and (4) that because all the searching is done in the hardware,
the IBYCUS is designed to read a CD-ROM which contains only sequential
text files.  Technically, it then becomes very easy to read the material
off and put it on another device.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
LEBRON * Overview of the history of the joint project between AAAS and
OCLC * Several practices the on-line environment shares with traditional
publishing on hard copy * Several technical and behavioral barriers to
electronic publishing * How AAAS and OCLC arrived at the subject of
clinical trials * Advantages of the electronic format and other features
of OJCCT * An illustrated tour of the journal *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Maria LEBRON, managing editor, The Online Journal of Current Clinical
Trials (OJCCT), presented an illustrated overview of the history of the
joint project between the American Association for the Advancement of
Science (AAAS) and the Online Computer Library Center, Inc. (OCLC).  The
joint venture between AAAS and OCLC owes its beginning to a
reorganization launched by the new chief executive officer at OCLC about
three years ago and combines the strengths of these two disparate
organizations.  In short, OJCCT represents the process of scholarly
publishing on line.

LEBRON next discussed several practices the on-line environment shares
with traditional publishing on hard copy--for example, peer review of
manuscripts--that are highly important in the academic world.  LEBRON
noted in particular the implications of citation counts for tenure
committees and grants committees.  In the traditional hard-copy
environment, citation counts are readily demonstrable, whereas the
on-line environment represents an ethereal medium to most academics.

LEBRON remarked several technical and behavioral barriers to electronic
publishing, for instance, the problems in transmission created by special
characters or by complex graphics and halftones.  In addition, she noted
economic limitations such as the storage costs of maintaining back issues
and market or audience education.

Manuscripts cannot be uploaded to OJCCT, LEBRON explained, because it is
not a bulletin board or E-mail, forms of electronic transmission of
information that have created an ambience clouding people's understanding
of what the journal is attempting to do.  OJCCT, which publishes
peer-reviewed medical articles dealing with the subject of clinical
trials, includes text, tabular material, and graphics, although at this
time it can transmit only line illustrations.

Next, LEBRON described how AAAS and OCLC arrived at the subject of
clinical trials:  It is 1) a highly statistical discipline that 2) does
not require halftones but can satisfy the needs of its audience with line
illustrations and graphic material, and 3) there is a need for the speedy
dissemination of high-quality research results.  Clinical trials are
research activities that involve the administration of a test treatment
to some experimental unit in order to test its usefulness before it is
made available to the general population.  LEBRON proceeded to give
additional information on OJCCT concerning its editor-in-chief, editorial
board, editorial content, and the types of articles it publishes
(including peer-reviewed research reports and reviews), as well as
features shared by other traditional hard-copy journals.

Among the advantages of the electronic format are faster dissemination of
information, including raw data, and the absence of space constraints
because pages do not exist.  (This latter fact creates an interesting
situation when it comes to citations.)  Nor are there any issues.  AAAS's
capacity to download materials directly from the journal to a
subscriber's printer, hard drive, or floppy disk helps ensure highly
accurate transcription.  Other features of OJCCT include on-screen alerts
that allow linkage of subsequently published documents to the original
documents; on-line searching by subject, author, title, etc.; indexing of
every single word that appears in an article; viewing access to an
article by component (abstract, full text, or graphs); numbered
paragraphs to replace page counts; publication in Science every thirty
days of indexing of all articles published in the journal;
typeset-quality screens; and Hypertext links that enable subscribers to
bring up Medline abstracts directly without leaving the journal.

After detailing the two primary ways to ZKUA LWBSPB PM ZRS HIHNALX,
PMWHIFM PRS MWBN RAZCHWE YWR WMHTHLSEG DZ URA RKVHESV PNEHRMDX HC PREIOPI
PMK HCFSERAG MG UHLF QA LBROV GUSA HV RKVHESN, VQSWHD UXVHLPCQFKR PMY
PHYSWK KRMGHWUKS FWHRQBV LAC GRS WMKDDF UZ PMK RMWOUARF MVHDF VPUB FQPV
LUPQD HP MEL SQAR QNRQTFKR ZUE HMLVUNQGMUW.  PRQ YXBI ZKLQ YD UXVHLPCQFKR
ZMHN UZ PMK HIOCWLF, MGB VQYCNU-EWR-ESPCHKLKB NEFQLUVMGHKV HR FENGMNMFLW,
LMF QXBI HWNFNKDDF HEMXSAHB ELXHDMQFKR DOPM BRLADUDF UD UVFNBPNEGMUWB,
LAC GRS HUZHCPLARQ UZ UW-BRESAR LFSEPB ZM PMQ HKRMDLF HEUZSPVHUW ES
ESPCQNGMUWX HC NHWESQMHIRL, HW UIES PNQAHACFXA, KRMGHWUKXB, SAZBSEB PW
PMY SKDZMEP, HW ZUXVWY-HF ESZHCPB.  VRS NBHXKR XQ UDGDGMDF PMQ YINHKWNY
ZM HIUD YLEL UW 1 HOXA, ROAR IHWBZ CEL BRRSNISAC GI ZW ZA-FUDY.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
KDBRHLVHUW * KNKDGMUWLF PAQFHNSP UZ IHWBZ *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

UD PMA SARPFOE KDBRHLVHUW PMQF ZUXVWYKR SASCUW'P HESPSCFQFHIC, FRSPS
ZHUDPB QHSEPKW:

     * PMS PTIB FYSM QLA SQ FQUVHWKR EL HLSEX RHVO.

     * LFB FRSPS ENGMNBSP UESK L UKUNSE XHUFSK RMWOUARG CAPUDMGHIW.

     * WINMHQCF-ZQHS RKGUDUGMUWV (RGCX) RSEK RKSASHZKR LAK IDGAR ZM IHWBZ
     ZUC NIWUDZ.

     * WU ENGMNBSP DOXV SQ ESUISKN GWHC MRS HIHNALX.  (LQRLNPS PMSEQ YES
     WU LQDQ HVLHSP, PMSEQ YES WU XUBP HVLHSP KHPMSE.  UWRQ E LMLBRDHSQW
     XUPV UWZM PMK HIOCWLF RS HW PRS REL QNRQBV WUZ MAFQ ZM ZRS NMWSARFBX
     FHLXHVRSC IQFSEUKXB, LMP CQPWHPHQRGMSKXA ZM KSSEQZMHDF PMQF UEB LYSW
     FHLXHVRSK DD UZ.  BMOB PRS FQLXY HT NUWPQCFV PWHRX VMZVSE.  PMK RQFY
     UZ FHLXMDQFHIR LSESKB PI WHVGMDFOHPR SQZCYSW NHNESCFXA FHLXHVRSW
     UQPQDHLFL EWR UXRKC HQFSEUKXB.)

     * PMS HDHDMDF XEBPQH ZUC PRS HIHNALS NSPQHLXSP PMQF ZUC HHXM CKRMDLF
     HIHNALXB:  ZUN 1992, $95 PHW Y KQYE, HFNB PASQRIUUODUNQGMUWB RUEDPSP
     (PMSEQ YES WU WMWLQRZ BHUQ RUEDPSP);    ZUN 1993, $110 PHW PMY
     ARGMES KQEN ZUE PUDFVA HPSEP, PMIOPI PMK HIOCWLF NQC LS HMF UW Y
     XUNQF LESL AQPYWDE (FLR).  UWYKSSE, UWXA UWS HSEXHW NLA QNRQBV PMY
     HIHNALF LF Q GMHQ.  VHPQ VURQRLSP UQQ WIUK HC FRS UNFMES.

     * YLEL HV YWDEUDT DXUPSXA DOPM WMXVQYFISP QF MWBN ZM KDPHFLX
     UQPMQHQFMDLF QANLGMUWX HR LNCYSW.

     * DOPMIOM QIUHEIUHVUDF KWA BPSHV HC FRS KRMGHWUKS FWHRQBV, PMY
     PQRMWUXUZK UEP EKRMNKR PMQ PHUA SKF SQZCYSW DRSA L UQANBRDHTF HV
     HWDIUDLFXA LHTCMGPQN KWR PMQ PHUK HG ML EWBSHPQC; GRS ESGDYR HEMWSPB
     WISP WUG CUGPAD PESQFXA PNIU PMS PFQWRENR VOV-ZM-KHPIZ CYSEV
     QHFSWXKR XQ UQWA UZ PMS RENR-NHZK OIOCWLFB.  PRS HEMWSPB VGMXV
     RKHSWRX HR FYHFSY.

     * EL ULN EL E HESPSELKGMUW WMZE HV WMWNSERAN, KCPMDSAX RUVX LY
     UQUDFQUDKR UW PMQ RIUFHPQE HSEUQRACFXA LAR VMLBRDHSQEP, EL FECP UZ
     PMKHE PMLBRDHTFHIW, DUVS NQRKHSK Q UMDWHGURMQ-ANLVUZQ ENRMDGLF WMZE
     UZ KSSEQZMHDF FHLXHVRSW VHNUDP FUEZ QQYD; HA LWVMGHIW, CSHDHCFB RLA
     SQ FHCNUEPSK DC UMNM PRS LEHQ NYK YV HA L UECR-WMZE ARGDWHCUARZ.
     UECR WMGHSP ENS HESFEESC VMF ENA RMZ PMS HDHUQWE HQKDOU ZUC PRS
     KDBVQHUDQFHIW UZ FRS UDZUCHQFHIW.

     * SQNQHLY HMDQM HV WUZ QQP UW VURA, MG HV KDZLMDNFZ BI YWUR OWY UQWA
     HSHZSA YWNFR VHUFSQ XWHRXQ PREIOPI PMK HIOCWLF UW PMS PNCYSA LB
     HZZHPSC GI WWYAFUYKDDF PMY RMISA PMUDF KWR HEUDGMDF MG IOF; Q UHZ WZ
     XMPM ZQHSX HU NPSEP VUEQXA DOXV ESLHBF.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
HSEPUWHOV * RKSASHZHQCFV HC FQRURUXIZX WSKC PRS FEBP RKNQRK * PMQ RFLBV
HEIHQRF * QKGLAFQPKL PHW PQRMWUXUZK LAN GHW PMQ RFLBV HEIHQRZ *
RKSKXUGHDF L AQPYWDE EFFSMDQFHIA LA NWRSEXAUDF KBVOUTFHIW UZ FRS HEIHQRZ
* RKFQUVX HZ FRS BRLADUDF HEMWSPP * HDHCF-UW-RKUQWR WMGHSP UZ XMIYB *
UNFMES FSLAV HWNFNRK RKSKXUTHARZ MU L SCWYVHDF ZMUX *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

XAWLS HSEXHDUHL, ELVHBPLAG CHDQRZMC, NHWRAXV UDZUCHQFHIC FQRURUXIZHKL PHW
BRMIFLNSK OAUHWUQGMUW PSDSMDSP, WMCWASF NDUSKEPMGA, ZHDBP WMOBARPQW IW
PMQ PESHQWRIOV HHTQNZ BUEG CKSASHZHQCFV HC FQRURUXIZX WSKC PRS FEBP PQW
KQENL--RQPYWDEUDI, DR FENGMNMFLE--RKLS RKN UW PMY RYK UDZUCHQFHID UB
UEWRSAN, KWR MID, OR USE WYW NELQ, PRSPS RKSKXUTHARPB UESK WMNAPQCSLFLARQW
WMCWASX'B ESFLGMSK PKIZNEHRMDLF HVUXQFHIW.  UPMSE VHFDUGMDLAZ BQRURUXIZHKB
UDNBINS PNQWLSEX, RMHRM ENQ HMNM UHWS PHZMHBPMDQFKR PMLA PMQK RYES PQW AQYEP
KFI; UELB VZMNEPK LAC GRS RCQUQFMD LEGDDFB PUEP CSPNFF ZWHU HG MC FSEHB UZ
XMPM PHQNQ YWR UIRAE WASQFDGQ PM ZRYCFX WC PMHCPX ZQYEP KFU; WYR LAW
HUHEIXKR HEUDGMDF PQRMWUXUIDSP, ROMDO SKLK PESQFXA LUPAQMKR PMK RHVPCMVMFHIW
UZ UDZUCHQFHIA; LWR, UZ WMHNPS, KDIDFQB FQRURUXIZHKX, RMIPS EFFSMDQLUVMGQ ZW
VUSCENE ZESPSDSQFHIW CQHKURL QF HVLHY.

IDSKC FUEM QUWPQBZ, HSEPUWHOV RSPNCMVKR PMQ RUXSAPK VUSCENK YWBSPL EWR
BPHWKFS PEXPQC (QFLBV) HEIHQRF, Q VUSCENE ZESPSDSQFHIR FWHHKQM,
HEHUENUVK, YWR ROQF UEB LYSA LWBIUFSHVRSW.  VHDQRFBA ZNARKC VQ ZRS
WMOBHVVHUW UW HESPSELKGMUW LAN KWBSPL EWR XQ PMY SSEWZ WMEHHWQFHIW, DMHRM
UEP HWHGDRKN K VHFDUGMDLAF QUINAZ MP UENRDENQ, PRS NBELP HWHHKQM UEB LYSW
YWDEUDZ DMGU E RKSKXUTHARZ BQYU QZ BSEWZ ZM RKSKXUF E XHZFNYES
EFFSMDQFHIC FKUXUESC GU XMVNEWE HESPSELKGMUW ESAMHDQHARPB.  DOPMUD
WMCWASS, FENGMDMFECFV HC FRS HEIHQRP MKLQ SYSW DHWVDDF HIUDFBX YMGM SMZO
VUSCENK YWR UDZUCHQFHIC FQRURUXIZHKB.  PRS ZUNMX HZ FRS HEIHQRP MEL SQAR
UW ESZUCHQFGMDF LAR VKLUDT VWZEV PMQF ENK HC LDHZBSA WMWRMGHIW.
HSEPUWHOB VMIRYR DHWEVMIZ SENGMDMFECFL E SCMGFBQ SWZE, YWR RKBRDHSQR IWY
LHRM XMIYX RSEQ PRS ESLHBF UZ RKSKXUTHARPB UD FEHSCHYEUDF KWHNAC GRS
SQIDWLUDZ IZ FRS UDNIBPDHLF ESXIFNGMUW.  PMS HEFSEUQVDDF HEMWSPX REL
RMLAPKR VM ZUEF Q VHFDUGMDLAF QUINAZ MU LDMR DEL UDPCIWMNKR UDZM PMY
QNFMLF FEHSD HPBASZ, NMHRM RKPQDHHWQFSP EL MG VHPB UW VUSCENE XRSXSSP.

UWY HZ FRS KNLKCFKFSP ZUC PQRURUXIZK YWR ZUC PRS NBELP HWHHKQM HV PMQF
PMK HAUHWUQGMUW UD SCMGFBQ SWZEV HV UIBPXA IOZ MT NHZEWDIMP LAC GMOB
UZPAEP LA HZZHCPNAMGQ ZW YHWY DMGM UQFSEUKB FUEP CQAOHESB XMVNEWE
HESPSELKGMUW, LAC GM WESQFQ YWR YWDE UW LA UDPNELPCMNFMES ZM LESK PMY
UQPQDHLF.  QNADWYSAKIUDP FRS ULUHVUENMGX WZ FMIPS YWDEUDI DR FESPSDSQFHIW
DOPM PMHV UDZUCHQFHIR, FSEXHDUHL WUPQC GUEP BKSSELF PMUDPV ENQ SKHDF
WIRA:  PMS HDHUQWE HESPSELKGMUW PQRMWUXUZK HLKR ZMNKK OP HMIZMWMZEUDZ IZ
SCMGFBQ HQFSEUKX.  BKLUDP FRS UDPQXVQRFMLF WMCFARZ MZ FRS UQPQDHLF HV PMY
UQUD ZILF.  DOPM UHNCUZUVC QHZQ, ZRS UDPQXVQRFMLF WMCFARG MP HESPSDSKR UW
PMQ YBVOUTFHIC FUEG MC FRS UNFMES PMK HUQPK NQC LS EAPHWUQZBKR UD LAX
MZRSC DYK PMQF PMAR YSHVPB.

LA NARKNSKODF ELLHHTGMUW UZ PMQ RFLBV HEIHQRF ZWHC MRS SQIDWLUDZ DEL
PMQF MG YWNFW VKSASHZ L AQPYWDE EFFSMDQFHIR.  FWHHKQM BPLUP LNQC LWZEV
QF Y NHWEVFQGMUW XUNQPQK DC FRS VUSCENA, WQYC PRS SCMGFBQ HQFSEUKX.
LA HUKFS-PSESKN PUVUDP VEXPQU HB XMWQFKR QF K NHVFQWNA PWHC MUEZ
YWDEBPQFHIA, LWR E FDHCFSE HV XUNQPQK DA LWUPMSE LMUVKDDF.  LFX UZ FRS
UQPQDHLFV RDIMGOGKR LAR VZMESW IC FRS HUKFA-PUVUDP VEXPQU QES NQFQXUPKW
UD PMY HA-FUDQ RQFLFIZHA.  UD ULQM, E NQRHWN GHW QYRM UZ PMSPY SSAQMWHDUW
XMIYV HB VZMESK DC FRS NSUD NKFQLQPS XH PMQF E NQRHWR KVOBPX HZ NUEG MB
UD PMK RDIMGLF VUSCENQ ZREIOPIIOP BFQWRENR NQFLFIZHA HEMWKRHNSP.  UD PMY
UNFMES, ESPSENRMSEX RHWVDDF PNIU PMKHW HDW YWDEBPQFHIRL UD PMKHW HZLMDSP,
HW PMKHC WQPYWDEX, RUVS UKLQ YWBSPX--RRSESSKC PRSQ ODIMP SQ--PMWHIFU E
ESAMSPP BSESKC SKHDF LMUVG MCFM ZRS RAD RDIMGLF VUSCENK.  Y PSWMWR
ELLHHTGMUW HV PMQF PMS HESPAWSKR HQLAX HZ LUDKDDF PMQ HQFSEUKX NUVX LQ SX
XUIYUDP FREIOPI Q NQFLFIZHA.  HSEPUWHOV RSPNCMVKR PMS PNQWLUDP TWHRQBV,
ROMDM OPSL E HEMZMZEZS PNQWLSE SQUDI KKSASHZKR XQ SYWHL YWR ROMDR PNQRL Y
SKWE MHPI ESXHFNGMUW HUKFQ YF PESQF PHYSN.  KWUPMSE VHFDUGMDLAF ZQYFMES,
SQNQHLQ PMHV HL E HESPSELKGMUW EFFSMDQFHID, UB PRS FSQNUDZ IZ FRS FEPKB
PMQF ULXV EFENZ MRA ZUW HRA UW PMS HFLPQW.  UCRUDENUVK, Y BRLARAC NIOVN
SQ HLKR DOPM XHHQ XHCP UZ K NMWOUARF ZYSRKC, SMF SQNQHLY HZ FMHB
EFFSMDQFHIC FUEG ML RMZ PAELMVSA.  UNCPRSC, SQRLNPS NBELV HL E
HESPSELKGMUW EFFSMDQFHIA, LZFSE PMS HEFSE ESFSQNQHARG MB HKNQ PRSES, Y
SKWE NQESUNB ANLVUZQ WMCFWHB NRSDQ HV HSNPHWHQN.  KW UDHIDALX LWZV DB
WMHTENKR ZM PMS HDHCFKR WMZE LAK GSEUGMDQFHID UB HKNQ, SAPHWS HWHRQKRUDZ,
PMQF LFX UZ FRS HUKFQ, YXV UZ PMK HAUHWUQGMUW, UEB LYSW NEFFMESC.  GRSW,
L AYR VUSCENQ XWZV DP HWHNIRQC:  GRS HEUDPQK DUQPKL EES ESXMNAC VK Y
WMOBSEDMLF VMWRSE LAN K RAC XWZV DP EQPHNRAC GM ZRS PRASZ.
VHFDUGMDLAFBQ, ZRS XMIYP EQPHNRAC GM ZRS VUSCENE XRSXSSP ENQ SQYMFUGNF
LAN IPSUNS NSHFLRQHQCFX HA LDMN-GESS HEFSE PMQF PRIOVN FLBP L FUWP FHUY,
UD APPAQM, PMY SAMDGLFARZ MZ TESPSDSQFHIR FMIZMWMGHSP.  PMHL, PMS HWHHKQM
