distinguish among them.

Office Document Architecture (ODA) has some advantages that flow from its
tight focus on office documents and clear directions for implementation.
Much of the ODA standard is easier to read and clearer at first reading
than the SGML standard, which is extremely general.  What that means is
that if one wants to use graphics in TIFF and ODA, one is stuck, because
ODA defines graphics formats while TIFF does not, whereas SGML says the
world is not waiting for this work group to create another graphics format.
What is needed is an ability to use whatever graphics format one wants.

The TEI provides a socket that allows one to connect the SGML document to
the graphics.  The notation that the graphics are in is clearly a choice
that one needs to make based on her or his environment, and that is one
advantage.  SGML is less megalomaniacal in attempting to define formats
for all kinds of information, though more megalomaniacal in attempting to
cover all sorts of documents.  The other advantage is that the model of
text represented by SGML is simply an order of magnitude richer and more
flexible than the model of text offered by ODA.  Both offer hierarchical
structures, but SGML recognizes that the hierarchical model of the text
that one is looking at may not have been in the minds of the designers,
whereas ODA does not.

ODA is not really aiming for the kind of document that the TEI wants to
encompass.  The TEI can handle the kind of material ODA has, as well as a
significantly broader range of material.  ODA seems to be very much
focused on office documents, which is what it started out being called--
office document architecture.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
CALALUCA * Text-encoding from a publisher's perspective *
Responsibilities of a publisher * Reproduction of Migne's Latin series
whole and complete with SGML tags based on perceived need and expected
use * Particular decisions arising from the general decision to produce
and publish PLD *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

The final speaker in this session, Eric CALALUCA, vice president,
Chadwyck-Healey, Inc., spoke from the perspective of a publisher re
text-encoding, rather than as one qualified to discuss methods of
encoding data, and observed that the presenters sitting in the room,
whether they had chosen to or not, were acting as publishers:  making
choices, gathering data, gathering information, and making assessments.
CALALUCA offered the hard-won conviction that in publishing very large
text files (such as PLD), one cannot avoid making personal judgments of
appropriateness and structure.

In CALALUCA's view, encoding decisions stem from prior judgments.  Two
notions have become axioms for him in the consideration of future sources
for electronic publication:  1) electronic text publishing is as personal
as any other kind of publishing, and questions of if and how to encode
the data are simply a consequence of that prior decision;  2) all
personal decisions are open to criticism, which is unavoidable.

CALALUCA rehearsed his role as a publisher or, better, as an intermediary
between what is viewed as a sound idea and the people who would make use
of it.  Finding the specialist to advise in this process is the core of
that function.  The publisher must monitor and hug the fine line between
giving users what they want and suggesting what they might need.  One
responsibility of a publisher is to represent the desires of scholars and
research librarians as opposed to bullheadedly forcing them into areas
they would not choose to enter.

CALALUCA likened the questions being raised today about data structure
and standards to the decisions faced by the Abbe Migne himself during
production of the Patrologia series in the mid-nineteenth century.
Chadwyck-Healey's decision to reproduce Migne's Latin series whole and
complete with SGML tags was also based upon a perceived need and an
expected use.  In the same way that Migne's work came to be far more than
a simple handbook for clerics, PLD is already far more than a database
for theologians.  It is a bedrock source for the study of Western
civilization, CALALUCA asserted.

In regard to the decision to produce and publish PLD, the editorial board
offered direct judgments on the question of appropriateness of these
texts for conversion, their encoding and their distribution, and
concluded that the best possible project was one that avoided overt
intrusions or exclusions in so important a resource.  Thus, the general
decision to transmit the original collection as clearly as possible with
the widest possible avenues for use led to other decisions:  1) To encode
the data or not, SGML or not, TEI or not.  Again, the expected user
community asserted the need for normative tagging structures of important
humanities texts, and the TEI seemed the most appropriate structure for
that purpose.  Research librarians, who are trained to view the larger
impact of electronic text sources on 80 or 90 or 100 doctoral
disciplines, loudly approved the decision to include tagging.  They see
what is coming better than the specialist who is completely focused on
one edition of Ambrose's De Anima, and they also understand that the
potential uses exceed present expectations.  2) What will be tagged and
what will not.  Once again, the board realized that one must tag the
obvious.  But in no way should one attempt to identify through encoding
schemes every single discrete area of a text that might someday be
searched.  That was another decision.  Searching by a column number, an
author, a word, a volume, permitting combination searches, and tagging
notations seemed logical choices as core elements.  3) How does one make
the data available?  Tieing it to a CD-ROM edition creates limitations,
but a magnetic tape file that is very large, is accompanied by the
encoding specifications, and that allows one to make local modifications
also allows one to incorporate any changes one may desire within the
bounds of private research, though exporting tag files from a CD-ROM
could serve just as well.  Since no one on the board could possibly
anticipate each and every way in which a scholar might choose to mine
this data bank, it was decided to satisfy the basics and make some
provisions for what might come.  4) Not to encode the database would rob
it of the interchangeability and portability these important texts should
accommodate.  For CALALUCA, the extensive options presented by full-text
searching require care in text selection and strongly support encoding of
data to facilitate the widest possible search strategies.  Better
software can always be created, but summoning the resources, the people,
and the energy to reconvert the text is another matter.

PLD is being encoded, captured, and distributed, because to
Chadwyck-Healey and the board it offers the widest possible array of
future research applications that can be seen today.  CALALUCA concluded
by urging the encoding of all important text sources in whatever way
seems most appropriate and durable at the time, without blanching at the
thought that one's work may require emendation in the future.  (Thus,
Chadwyck-Healey produced a very large humanities text database before the
final release of the TEI Guidelines.)

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Creating texts with markup advocated * Trends in encoding *
The TEI and the issue of interchangeability of standards * A
misconception concerning the TEI * Implications for an institution like
LC in the event that a multiplicity of DTDs develops * Producing images
as a first step towards possible conversion to full text through
character recognition * The AAP tag sets as a common starting point and
the need for caution *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

HOCKEY prefaced the discussion that followed with several comments in
favor of creating texts with markup and on trends in encoding.  In the
future, when many more texts are available for on-line searching, real
problems in finding what is wanted will develop, if one is faced with
millions of words of data.  It therefore becomes important to consider
putting markup in texts to help searchers home in on the actual things
they wish to retrieve.  Various approaches to refining retrieval methods
toward this end include building on a computer version of a dictionary
and letting the computer look up words in it to obtain more information
about the semantic structure or semantic field of a word, its grammatical
structure, and syntactic structure.

HOCKEY commented on the present keen interest in the encoding world
in creating:  1) machine-readable versions of dictionaries that can be
initially tagged in SGML, which gives a structure to the dictionary entry;
these entries can then be converted into a more rigid or otherwise
different database structure inside the computer, which can be treated as
a dynamic tool for searching mechanisms; 2) large bodies of text to study
the language.  In order to incorporate more sophisticated mechanisms,
more about how words behave needs to be known, which can be learned in
part from information in dictionaries.  However, the last ten years have
seen much interest in studying the structure of printed dictionaries
converted into computer-readable form.  The information one derives about
many words from those is only partial, one or two definitions of the
common or the usual meaning of a word, and then numerous definitions of
unusual usages.  If the computer is using a dictionary to help retrieve
words in a text, it needs much more information about the common usages,
because those are the ones that occur over and over again.  Hence the
current interest in developing large bodies of text in computer-readable
form in order to study the language.  Several projects are engaged in
compiling, for example, 100 million words. HOCKEY described one with
which she was associated briefly at Oxford University involving
compilation of 100 million words of British English:  about 10 percent of
that will contain detailed linguistic tagging encoded in SGML; it will
have word class taggings, with words identified as nouns, verbs,
adjectives, or other parts of speech.  This tagging can then be used by
programs which will begin to learn a bit more about the structure of the
language, and then, can go to tag more text.

HOCKEY said that the more that is tagged accurately, the more one can
refine the tagging process and thus the bigger body of text one can build
up with linguistic tagging incorporated into it.  Hence, the more tagging
or annotation there is in the text, the more one may begin to learn about
language and the more it will help accomplish more intelligent OCR.  She
recommended the development of software tools that will help one begin to
understand more about a text, which can then be applied to scanning
images of that text in that format and to using more intelligence to help
one interpret or understand the text.

HOCKEY posited the need to think about common methods of text-encoding
for a long time to come, because building these large bodies of text is
extremely expensive and will only be done once.

In the more general discussion on approaches to encoding that followed,
these points were made:

BESSER identified the underlying problem with standards that all have to
struggle with in adopting a standard, namely, the tension between a very
highly defined standard that is very interchangeable but does not work
for everyone because something is lacking, and a standard that is less
defined, more open, more adaptable, but less interchangeable.  Contending
that the way in which people use SGML is not sufficiently defined, BESSER
wondered 1) if people resist the TEI because they think it is too defined
in certain things they do not fit into, and 2) how progress with
interchangeability can be made without frightening people away.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN replied that the published drafts of the TEI had met
with surprisingly little objection on the grounds that they do not allow
one to handle X or Y or Z.  Particular concerns of the affiliated
projects have led, in practice, to discussions of how extensions are to
be made; the primary concern of any project has to be how it can be
represented locally, thus making interchange secondary.  The TEI has
received much criticism based on the notion that everything in it is
required or even recommended, which, as it happens, is a misconception
from the beginning,   because none of it is required and very little is
actually actively recommended for all cases, except that one document
one's source.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN agreed with BESSER about this trade-off:  all the
projects in a set of twenty TEI-conformant projects will not necessarily
tag the material in the same way.  One result of the TEI will be that the
easiest problems will be solved--those dealing with the external form of
the information; but the problem that is hardest in interchange is that
one is not encoding what another wants, and vice versa.  Thus, after
the adoption of a common notation, the differences in the underlying
conceptions of what is interesting about texts become more visible.
The success of a standard like the TEI will lie in the ability of
the recipient of interchanged texts to use some of what it contains
and to add the information that was not encoded that one wants, in a
layered way, so that texts can be gradually enriched and one does not
have to put in everything all at once.  Hence, having a well-behaved
markup scheme is important.

STEVENS followed up on the paradoxical analogy that BESSER alluded to in
the example of the MARC records, namely, the formats that are the same
except that they are different.  STEVENS drew a parallel between
document-type definitions and MARC records for books and serials and maps,
where one has a tagging structure and there is a text-interchange.
STEVENS opined that the producers of the information will set the terms
for the standard (i.e., develop document-type definitions for the users
of their products), creating a situation that will be problematical for
an institution like the Library of Congress, which will have to deal with
the DTDs in the event that a multiplicity of them develops.  Thus,
numerous people are seeking a standard but cannot find the tag set that
will be acceptable to them and their clients.  SPERBERG-McQUEEN agreed
with this view, and said that the situation was in a way worse:  attempting
to unify arbitrary DTDs resembled attempting to unify a MARC record with a
bibliographic record done according to the Prussian instructions.
According to STEVENS, this situation occurred very early in the process.

WATERS recalled from early discussions on Project Open Book the concern
of many people that merely by producing images, POB was not really
enhancing intellectual access to the material.  Nevertheless, not wishing
to overemphasize the opposition between imaging and full text, WATERS
stated that POB views getting the images as a first step toward possibly
converting to full text through character recognition, if the technology
is appropriate.  WATERS also emphasized that encoding is involved even
with a set of images.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN agreed with WATERS that one can create an SGML document
consisting wholly of images.  At first sight, organizing graphic images
with an SGML document may not seem to offer great advantages, but the
advantages of the scheme WATERS described would be precisely that
ability to move into something that is more of a multimedia document:
a combination of transcribed text and page images.  WEIBEL concurred in
this judgment, offering evidence from Project ADAPT, where a page is
divided into text elements and graphic elements, and in fact the text
elements are organized by columns and lines.  These lines may be used as
the basis for distributing documents in a network environment.  As one
develops software intelligent enough to recognize what those elements
are, it makes sense to apply SGML to an image initially, that may, in
fact, ultimately become more and more text, either through OCR or edited
OCR or even just through keying.  For WATERS, the labor of composing the
document and saying this set of documents or this set of images belongs
to this document constitutes a significant investment.

WEIBEL also made the point that the AAP tag sets, while not excessively
prescriptive, offer a common starting point; they do not define the
structure of the documents, though.  They have some recommendations about
DTDs one could use as examples, but they do just suggest tag sets.   For
example, the CORE project attempts to use the AAP markup as much as
possible, but there are clearly areas where structure must be added.
That in no way contradicts the use of AAP tag sets.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN noted that the TEI prepared a long working paper early
on about the AAP tag set and what it lacked that the TEI thought it
needed, and a fairly long critique of the naming conventions, which has
led to a very different style of naming in the TEI.  He stressed the
importance of the opposition between prescriptive markup, the kind that a
publisher or anybody can do when producing documents de novo, and
descriptive markup, in which one has to take what the text carrier
provides.  In these particular tag sets it is easy to overemphasize this
opposition, because the AAP tag set is extremely flexible.  Even if one
just used the DTDs, they allow almost anything to appear almost anywhere.

                                 ******

SESSION VI.  COPYRIGHT ISSUES

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
PETERS * Several cautions concerning copyright in an electronic
environment * Review of copyright law in the United States * The notion
of the public good and the desirability of incentives to promote it *
What copyright protects * Works not protected by copyright * The rights
of copyright holders * Publishers' concerns in today's electronic
environment * Compulsory licenses * The price of copyright in a digital
medium and the need for cooperation * Additional clarifications *  Rough
justice oftentimes the outcome in numerous copyright matters * Copyright
in an electronic society * Copyright law always only sets up the
boundaries; anything can be changed by contract *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Marybeth PETERS, policy planning adviser to the Register of Copyrights,
Library of Congress,   made several general comments and then opened the
floor to discussion of subjects of interest to the audience.

Having attended several sessions in an effort to gain a sense of what
people did and where copyright would affect their lives, PETERS expressed
the following cautions:

     * If one takes and converts materials and puts them in new forms,
     then, from a copyright point of view, one is creating something and
     will receive some rights.

     * However, if what one is converting already exists, a question
     immediately arises about the status of the materials in question.

     * Putting something in the public domain in the United States offers
     some freedom from anxiety, but distributing it throughout the world
     on a network is another matter, even if one has put it in the public
     domain in the United States.  Re foreign laws, very frequently a
     work can be in the public domain in the United States but protected
     in other countries.  Thus, one must consider all of the places a
     work may reach, lest one unwittingly become liable to being faced
     with a suit for copyright infringement, or at least a letter
     demanding discussion of what one is doing.

PETERS reviewed copyright law in the United States.  The U.S.
Constitution effectively states that Congress has the power to enact
copyright laws for two purposes:  1) to encourage the creation and
dissemination of intellectual works for the good of society as a whole;
and, significantly, 2) to give creators and those who package and
disseminate materials the economic rewards that are due them.

Congress strives to strike a balance, which at times can become an
emotional issHA.  PMA HDUPQR VFQPQP REL RASKN EWBSHPQC GRS WUGMUW UZ PMY
ALFMNES NDIMP UZ LA LNPMHW XH UORM EL MG UEL EWBSHPQC GRS WUGMUW UZ PMY
FHLXMD ZIIW LAC GRS RKVHNEVMVUZQ UZ UDRQCFDGSP ZM HEIUMZK HZ.  BMHB VFQPQ
UZ LUULHDP, RWYKSSE, UEB RESQFKR BPNEUDX HC FRS UDPQCWQFHIALX VKSAS LAW
HV PMS EQYXHA UHW PSSKNEX UZ FRS KDZLSEARRQV HC FRS FLRX PMQF RY UESK.
ZMNKQ ZRS NAMGKR BPQFSP HEMZQRPB LFUIBP KSSEK EUDW IZ NHWQ GUEM QLA SQ
NQXVKR LA YSHESPVHUW UZ LA LNPMHW.  PMS PFQWRENN GHW FKUDUDT DHZEWDIMP
HEMZQRGMUW HV VHHTXA HWDIUDLFMGQ.  ZMHV HL E XUR XFQWRENN KWR HQLAB PUEZ
Y NHWV DL RMZ WMGHKR PNIU XHHQPMUDP KXBQ, YX RASF LB VMIRX Q NSEFQUD
UHDUUQF LUINAZ MU LMFMIEPMHZ.  HRA NQA LXBU YQBOHES WMZEDHPIF TWHPQQMHIW
ZUC HYEUDF K RAD XSEVHUW UZ HEYSVOBPUDT IQFSEUKS, FWHGDRKK DM CLAUGSPPB
XHHQ PHENY IT NESQFDGMGX.

MIRYSKC, NHZEWDIMP WISP WUF TWHPQQM DKQYB, HQPMIRV, XEBPQHX--HAFQ ZRS NYX
PMQF UWY SSZESBVSP PMHXQ PMHDFL.  RHW WISP WMZEDHPIF TWHPQQM LAQZMHDF
PMQF HV HQRMLAMDLF, LAQZMHDF PMQF WISP WUG MDLUXSK RMIHRQ, HW NCMGSEUK
WMWNSEDUDF ROQPRSW HC WMZ UWS PMINFW VU Y PMUDP.  ZHW YSQUFSQ, PRS
ESLHBFX HU L HEMWSPB RLFSAW VQRVUDQUDI, DW DMHRM UWQ HQRUEDUNQXVE WQHIXSP
HUFHES XHNARV PNIU UXR CQRHWKDDFL, EES WUM QHZEWDIMPQLSA.  UW PMY HPMSE
UEWR, PMQ RMIMDQ PH WQRHWN K XHDF KDIDFQXVK YWR ZM UDNCQYPS PMS PIOWR UZ
GDUXUDX HC PM XDHDF HF PMQ PQOFEDU WMRLGMFMPQB PRS ESLHBFX HT NUWSKEPHIW
PMQF ENQ RHZEWDIMPQLSA.  UIESIXSE, UG Y NHWV DP HWHPQQMKR XQ WMZEDHPIG MW
PMA HDUPQR VFQPQX, HRA PKRANEXVA WYSRV PMS HSEUHBVHIW UZ FRS WMZEDHPIZ
WYRAC PM WUWSKCP MG.  WUCHLFXA, ROW YUVX UDW PMA RYR--PMQF HV, WMDLSEPQW-
-UQPQDHLF HV Q UQFPQW HT NUWPCQNG.  MC FRS QLPSWNY HU L WMCFNEQM, PMY
HSEPUW ROM WESQFSP PMA RYR UQPQDHLF HV PMQ YMFMIN EWR WYRAC.  SMF HSHZSA
WI WUF PARSELFXA PMUDE YXMMF PMQ RHZEWDIMP HUFSMDQFHIRL NAGMF LZFSE PMY
ULQM.  HSPQEP BPESBVKR PMA RYSR DRSW RQYVUDF DOPM WMZEDHPIPQR DHWEV ZM
PMUDE YXMMF WMZEDHPIG MA LKGLARQ.  UWS'P LQDPKUDUDF ZHRYD HB HMNI PESQFSE
HF PNUWZ BUED UG MV RWYC FRS WHKN.

HSPQEP RABZ KDBRHLPSR DHWEV WUF TWHPQQMKR XQ WMZEDHPIF, ZHW YSQUFSQ, YWA
YWDE WIRA XQ L UKRSELF QHFSWXYS EL FECP UZ MHX HE RSE UZGUDMLF NIGMSP HV
UD PMS HMLVUN RIUKUD UC FRS NAMGKR BPQFSP.  PMK HBVHA HV WUZ CMIXVA ZESY
UZ WIMLM QUWRQCWUDZ DRSPMSE HW WUZ BRS YWDE HV UD PMS HMLVUN RIUKUW
IOPBDKQ PRS NAMGKR BPQFSP.  MZRSC HQFSEUKXB UD PMS HMLVUN RIUKUD UWNFNRK:
LAX YHWEV FHLXHVRSC IHWQ PUER LKSARZQ-GUSK KQENL EZI, LAN KWA YWDE
FHLXHVRSK DC FRS NAMGKR BPQFSP UIES PMLA ZCARZQ-KHPIZ QQYEP KFW, YMIPS
WMZEDHPIZ CEL WUP CARYRKR.  UD FQVAUDF KXMMF PMA RYR PQRMWUXUZK LAW
FHZBUDT IQFSEUKV UA L KDIDFQF UHWC MH XARN KXV IXSE PMY RHWVN, HSPQEP
NQMFHIRAW, IRA UOBP EQSH UD UHWR PMQF ROUVQ PRS DHPIPB UQA WMZ SQ LA
HVLHK HC FRS NAMGKR BPQFSP, PMQK UQQ XK HW RUGPAESCF FECPX HZ FRS YWNSW,
ROSEQ HHXM QIOCFDHSP HEKSHIHLXA QHFSWXKR Q NHZEWDIMP PQCH UZ PMA SUGY HZ
PMQ YMFMIE HFNL PUGZQ KQENB.

HSPQEP RABZ ESGDYRKR PMY SWMWUUHRB UZ WMZEDHPIP MUXKDDF.  VHHTXA,
QRUWIUMD DHPIPB ENQ PRS DHPIPB ZM WMCFWHB FRS ESHEIWMNGMUW UZ Y NHWV DW
LAA ZHWC.  MRSQ XASUWP FM ZRS LNPMHW, HW UD PMQ RELY HU L YWDE UQRK ZUW
MHES, PMY SHTXUKQC.  PRS PSWMWR DHPIZ, CMHRM HV NCMGMDLF ZM WMDLSEVHUW,
HV PMS EDIMP ZM RMLAPK Y NHWQ.  GRS DHPIZ BI UYEA RYR SKEPHIRL HV HSEREFB
UWY HZ FRS UIBP VHFDUGMDLAP CDIMPX HU LMFMIEP, FECPMDNFENXA UD LA
ASQRPCUWMD YWNSC.  GRS PMHDR CDIMP HV PMS EDIMP ZM FHLXHVM PRS YWDE LAW
PMS EDIMP ZM KDBVQHUDQFK HP, BIUQPMHDF PMQF KSSEXWRA ROI WQYXB UD LA
ASQRPCUWMD HQKDOU RAKRB PI YWUC.  ZRS LQVHN CNFK HV HU L WMZE HV XHVN,
LFS NDIMPX HG NHVPCMVMFHIA LES YSGMDFOHPRKR DOPM PMS PLFY HZ FUEM QHZX.
PMQ EQK HV PMQF MG UOBP SQ XHVN.  L AOUSQW HT NIUFEDUSP IXSEWMHQ PMHV
MXBPQNSA XQ SAELUDZ IW SARGMDF PMKHE HWHNIQM.  PMSPQ RIUFEDUSP ENFIQ PUEZ
UG PMQ HQFSEUKV UP EARPQW IN SQYPSN KWR WUP BUXC, GRSQ WUWPCUX PMA HPSB
UZ Y NHWQ.  GRS ZUHNPM DHPIF, QWR UWK SSEK OHTHWFQCF UD K NDIMGLF YWNSW,
HV E NDIMP UZ FHLXMD HSNPHWUQWNY, RMHRM HQLAB PRS DHPIZ BH XMIC ZRS YWDE
PSAMARGMLFXA.  ZUE SLYHTSA, WMZEDHPIZ MDWSEB RUWPCUX PMS PMIDODF UZ Y
NR-WHH TWHNIQM UD E FMLVUR TFLRQ LHRM EL E FMLVUN BMVNEWE.  PMS EKSSEPS
VHRK UZ FHLXMD HSNPHWUQWNK HB VIUQPMHDF NQXVKR PMS EDIMP UZ FHLXMD
KDPHFLQ.  OHWLF DHPIPB LFXH YSHVZ, CMHRM QF PMA PKRSELF SASKF LZSXA UWXA
ZM SKWE VUUHPQK GHVNLX NHWEV UZ ENM, TMF UD PMYHWE UQK YZSXA NARKW
WMCFNEQM LAW IPMSE HEUDDMFSSP.  UINES NDIMPB HYK UDNBINQ PRS DHPIZ MU LW
LNPMHW ZM UESK MHX HE RSE ALHQ UW Y NHWQ, GRS DHPIZ MU LZBDHLMGMUW, LAW
PMS EDIMP ZM MXHKQM ZM KDBPHWGMUW HW UOGMFLGMUW--PMS EDIMP UZ UDPQPDMGX.

PMY RYK WMZEDHPIF BYN HV YWCRKR IDSKB HMNU SQFMGINQ PU YQMDGMGHKB VMNU EB
HESPSELKGMUW; ZM HLY HT UQFSEUKF UHW BRMIFLNSK YWR ESPSENRM FHEHHXSP ROAR
PMA HPSC RHYL RMZ UQEQ UOBFHGSA WMGHSP; LAC GM ZRS PKRANEGMUW UZ
ULRBHUUVQ RHZHKX HU NRFMLVUPRKR YWDEB LA XMVNEDHSP ZUC PRSHBASSKL EWR
MZRSN SMVNEDHSP.  LMZ BRS FLD RHYL RMZ LFXUN YWAUWQ PM XQRIUQ PRS
KDBPDHLMZMW HZ FRS HEIWMNF ZHW PMY SCFHDY RHWVN.  UD ZMNKE'X ASQRPCUWMD
ARGDWHCUARF, TMLVUPRSEL EES YSPCQHASQ WUWRQCWKR PMQF PMY SCFHDY RHWVN HV
RAZCHWEQN KWR NQW UTMKUC FRS UDZUCHQFHIW RSPHDKR PNIU E LUDFVQ RHZK OA L
VHDFSA VUSCENE.  OARRQ, UG PMSEK HB PM XY HAFX WRA LESA, ROMDR HMLVUPRSEB
UQQ WMIHXQ PU XDGY RMGM, PRSX YUVX UTMKUC FRSHD UIRAK OW UPMSE NYEX, ZUW
YSQUFSA, PWHU QWBSPL EWR HLS.  RARRQ, PMK RKSASHZHQCF UZ VHPQ VURQRLSP
LAW IPMSE VDWRX HU LPDYSHQCFB PM WIXSE ROQF FHLXHVRSEP SQVUKSQ PRSX
PRIOVN SQ WMHTARLEPQN GHW.  LAE XUXMFHIC FUEZ BRS NAMGKR BPQFSP FQEQB
ZMNKE OEL ZM WMRLDKSE PMK HCFSEALGMUWLF ENARY.

WUGMDF PMQF PMA HDUPQR VFQPQV HL E HQCTSE UZ PMQ SSERA WMDLARGMUW LAW
LHLBNCMVSP ZM MGP HWHGDVHUWP, HQPSEV RSPNCMVKR PMS HSEUHBVHIRL HEMWSPB.
PRQ YXBI WAPUDKR WMHTNFXHWE VURQRLSP.  Q NIUFHXBHWA XMDARPS, UZ ROMDM PRS
NAMGKR BPQFSP UEP RKN L UYR, LMUVRV UDZM PMA SYN PMS EDIMP ZM HLQ Y YWDE
LHVMQRZ BM WSEFQUD PQCHL EWR WMWRMGHIRL.  UD PMK HCFSEALGMUWLF ENARY,
MIRYSKC, PRS QLUVMGQ ZI OPS WMHTNFXHWE VURQRLSP HV YSPCQHASA XHUMGKR.
PMHL, NBQYDHDFMIHLSP LAW IPMSE WMXVQRGMSKB RIUHEHVY HRA HZGMUW PMQF UEB
LHWBYSRKK DR FWHGDKDDF ZUN HPS UZ Y NHWY.  IZFAR IXSEXUIYKR ROAR UWY
SQIDRL ZM HLQ RHZEWDIMPKR UQPQDHLF LAR GMF HEIWMNPB ZMPKPMSE HV MIY
YSHSRLDGQ PRS HSCHHVVHUWP HWHRQBV LAC ILAKFUDI DG ML.  EWBHWKDDF ZM
HSPQEP, PMS HDHRQ UZ WMZEDHPIG MA L KDIDFQB UKRHOO, CUEPQSKE PUXMFHID UB
YWDEKR IOZ, CUVV UWNFNRK UQALIDDF LAN KBVQHLXUDP FRS NKFQLQPS.  PRY
BPWHDFXA ESWMOBARRKC GUEF TMLVUPRSEL EWR VUSCENUKRL HW HSHZSA DOPM
LKDHIOB LQNVIWHNARV WMHZSEQFQ PW YHWY IMF KNUHDUBPNEGMSKXA PAELMVSA
XEBPQHV, HW UCRSE ZM HEIWMNQ SQPPQW SSPNFPB.

UD PMA SARPFOE AMSPGMUW-LAN-KRLRYE HSEHIC GUEF ZUXXURYR GQPSEB'V
HESPARFQGMUW, PMA PUXXUDODF ZHUDPB QHSEPKW:

     * PMQ RHZEWDIMP UZGURQ UQUDFQUDB PUEF QWAPMUDT IQRUEDUNQF LWR
     ZMFQXVK QSOLNBPDGS HWHLQLXK OL RMZ HEMZQRPQK.  DC FRS KSARZ BUEZ
     ROQF LA UDKDGDNILF KDK DW RKSASHZUDP TMZARGMLFXA WMZEDHPIFQLXY
