to test a prototype system for recording brittle books as digital images
and producing, on demand, high-quality archival paper replacements.  The
project goes beyond that, however, to investigate some of the issues
surrounding scanning, storing, retrieving, and providing access to
digital images in a network environment.

The Joint Study in Digital Preservation began in January 1990.  Xerox
provided the College Library Access and Storage System (CLASS) software,
a prototype 600-dots-per-inch (dpi) scanner, and the hardware necessary
to support network printing on the DocuTech printer housed in Cornell's
Computing and Communications Center (CCC).

The Cornell staff using the hardware and software became an integral part
of the development and testing process for enhancements to the CLASS
software system.  The collaborative nature of this relationship is
resulting in a system that is specifically tailored to the preservation
application.

A digital library of 1,000 volumes (or approximately 300,000 images) has
been created and is stored on an optical jukebox that resides in CCC.
The library includes a collection of select mathematics monographs that
provides mathematics faculty with an opportunity to use the electronic
library.  The remaining volumes were chosen for the library to test the
various capabilities of the scanning system.

One project objective is to provide users of the Cornell library and the
library staff with the ability to request facsimiles of digitized images
or to retrieve the actual electronic image for browsing.  A prototype
viewing workstation has been created by Xerox, with input into the design
by a committee of Cornell librarians and computer professionals.  This
will allow us to experiment with patron access to the images that make up
the digital library.  The viewing station provides search, retrieval, and
(ultimately) printing functions with enhancements to facilitate
navigation through multiple documents.

Cornell currently is working to extend access to the digital library to
readers using workstations from their offices.  This year is devoted to
the development of a network resident image conversion and delivery
server, and client software that will support readers who use Apple
Macintosh computers, IBM windows platforms, and Sun workstations.
Equipment for this development was provided by Sun Microsystems with
support from the Commission on Preservation and Access.

During the show-and-tell session of the Workshop on Electronic Texts, a
prototype view station will be demonstrated.  In addition, a display of
original library books that have been digitized will be available for
review with associated printed copies for comparison.  The fifteen-minute
overview of the project will include a slide presentation that
constitutes a "tour" of the preservation digitizing process.

The final network-connected version of the viewing station will provide
library users with another mechanism for accessing the digital library,
and will also provide the capability of viewing images directly.  This
will not require special software, although a powerful computer with good
graphics will be needed.

The Joint Study in Digital Preservation has generated a great deal of
interest in the library community.  Unfortunately, or perhaps
fortunately, this project serves to raise a vast number of other issues
surrounding the use of digital technology for the preservation and use of
deteriorating library materials, which subsequent projects will need to
examine.  Much work remains.

SESSION III

Howard BESSER                      Networking Multimedia Databases

What do we have to consider in building and distributing databases of
visual materials in a multi-user environment?  This presentation examines
a variety of concerns that need to be addressed before a multimedia
database can be set up in a networked environment.

In the past it has not been feasible to implement databases of visual
materials in shared-user environments because of technological barriers.
Each of the two basic models for multi-user multimedia databases has
posed its own problem.  The analog multimedia storage model (represented
by Project Athena's parallel analog and digital networks) has required an
incredibly complex (and expensive) infrastructure.  The economies of
scale that make multi-user setups cheaper per user served do not operate
in an environment that requires a computer workstation, videodisc player,
and two display devices for each user.

The digital multimedia storage model has required vast amounts of storage
space (as much as one gigabyte per thirty still images).  In the past the
cost of such a large amount of storage space made this model a
prohibitive choice as well.  But plunging storage costs are finally
making this second alternative viable.

If storage no longer poses such an impediment, what do we need to
consider in building digitally stored multi-user databases of visual
materials?  This presentation will examine the networking and
telecommunication constraints that must be overcome before such databases
can become commonplace and useful to a large number of people.

The key problem is the vast size of multimedia documents, and how this
affects not only storage but telecommunications transmission time.
Anything slower than T-1 speed is impractical for files of 1 megabyte or
larger (which is likely to be small for a multimedia document).  For
instance, even on a 56 Kb line it would take three minutes to transfer a
1-megabyte file.  And these figures assume ideal circumstances, and do
not take into consideration other users contending for network bandwidth,
disk access time, or the time needed for remote display.  Current common
telephone transmission rates would be completely impractical; few users
would be willing to wait the hour necessary to transmit a single image at
2400 baud.

This necessitates compression, which itself raises a number of other
issues.  In order to decrease filS POGSP VHFDUGMDLAFBX, YQ HHLP QHTXUX
XUBVQ WIUHESPVHUW LFZIDHPMHB.  LMP MWY UORM AMLFMGQ WLA RY LUZUCR ZM
XUPS?  ZM NKPQ PMSES REL SQAR UWXA UWS PDIDUGUNQCF BPINK WUWY HZ
HUKFQ-ANLVUZQ RAKRL PHW E FENGMNMFLN HPSD PWHHF, LAC GMHB VFMWK KDR WMZ
XUIY QF XUBV ESLHBFUDP ZWHC QIUHESPVHUW.  UWXA LUPQD HRKCFUGKODF
HUKFQ-ANLVUZQ RAKRB RLA RY SQIDC FU YWVESBV BPHWKFQ YWR RAZCHWQ VLARDDKPM
RAKRB.

YSHSDHARRQ DOPM Z-YUDWIRX-LQPSN KZSVUNQGMUWB (VMNU EV HUQPKAMSEQ, ZRS
NADGSEVHZQ UZ NQVUZUCWUK QF SQDEASQK HUKFK RQFQLELK) RQHUWBPNEPQB PRS
MFUVMGX WU L NBHKCF-PSDSSE ZMZHXUZK, LMF QXBH ZIHCFB PM ZRS VUUHFQGMUW UZ
NMWSARP BUZZCENA PHW K NHVPCMVMFKR ARGDWHCUARF.  ZHW YSQUFSY,
EFFSMDQFHIRL VUEQ HUKFQAHAWE NQD UWNHWZHNEPQ WMHTESBVHIC, LMF NMWSARZ B
HUFSQHARFQGMUWV RU WMZ HSCHMG RKWMHTESBVHIA LZ BRS ARN IPSE'P
YWDEBPQFHIR.  LMNI RQRIUHESPVHUW QF PMS RHXM QIUFHPQN EXVKSUKPQB VZMNEPK
NQFEDMZQ HEMXSAHB ROUVK RIHDF WUPMUDP FU YWVESBV HEMXSAHB UZ
PQSAWMOBNAMDQFHIRL LQWRDOCGO.

RY RAKR ZM YSQUUDQ PRS APPAQMX HW LQPYWDE PMWHIFR-HMF UZ UIGDDF
UOBFHUKRUK WINMHQCFL EWHNAW IA L RAZCHWY.  DA RYSC GH YLYUHRA LKDHIOB
ZMZHXUIDSP PMQF DOXV RSSF HL KLIHC VMZFBARQREV ENIOWR PSDSSEL EWR
FKPQNYEX.  YSHSDHARRQ DOPM EFFSMDQFHIRL LHRM EL PMSPS EKUPS BPUVX LWHKNSE
AMSPGMUWP. RWY NBHXASK OB PRS UOBFHUKRUK WINMHQCF GMKR ZM PMS PUZZCENY
ZUD SHKDODF MG?  NQD UM TQ YWBSPPSN KWR GDYRKR PNIU MZRSN EZSVUNQGMUWB?
YSHSDHARRQ DOPM PMQ HENN THWUQF (QWR UIES ESRQCFXA DOPM PMY P39.50
HEMZMWUXB) VMIRX MIN OPSUNV UM QLA SQ ZM BPHWK RMWOUARPB UD L UHWU HW
ROMDM PRSQ WLA SQ QNRQBVKR XQ K LENHKZQ UZ EFFSMDQFHIR LUZZCENY.

GUALXVA, ZWHU QD UCFASSAQMNLF-LWBSPB VFQWRZHUDZ, CA RYSC GU YWVESBV PMY
HVLHY HZ TWHGDKDDF QNRQBV ZM PMSPQ HNFGMHQKDK NMWOUARPB UD
UDPQCRHVDMFSUDENK QDLHDUWHQCFX.  RA RYSC GH YLYUHRA PQCHUDUXIZK YWR
UDRKVODF BPNEPQIDSP PMQF DOXV LFXUN OB PH ZWHGDRK QNRQBV ZM PMHV UQPQDHLF
UD Q NWHBV-KDBRHGVUALWE NYX.

WHALVN FLEPAR            KDESQMHIRL UD MHPI-HSNPHWUQWNA RQPYWDEUDP ZHW
                         VUSCENHKB

PMS HQNQ YZ CMHRM WMHTMFUDP FQRURUXIZE OEL KNLKWNKR IXSE PMS HELF ZHWZQ
KQENB VMIRX WU VHFD UZ QLQFUDP.  DIOPIXA PHQYVDDF, QYRM GUSK-KQEN HSDHIW
UEX EHKVNKR LA HWRKW-HT-UKFDUFMRK HUHEIXQHARG MR FDHRQ LAR GSEZUCHLARQ UZ
WMHTMFUDP KAMHGHQCF.  WU UNWRQUARFQS UHNNVSP ENA SDVASQ ZH ZESSKCF PMHV
FERQ PNIU WMCFUDOHDF ZUN EF BQYBP PMA RYSG CQRKNK.  HG MX HAFK OC FRS
FEBP GUSK KQENB, PMIIFM, PUEM QIUFHGMDF UEB LQRIUA HVMAMMGIOV HW
VUSCENHKL, EZLQRGMDF LFX BFQZL LAR GQFWHRL, KDESQMXA HW UDKDESQMXA.

NIDHDF PMSPS PQUA PDGQ KQYEP, WMOBNAMDQFHIRL NEPQX HC FRS UDPQCWQP, PMY
HEUDDMFEF LNQRKUHW BIUFHGMDF RAZCHWE, IKLK PWHDW PNIU 56 QVHP ZM 1.5
CTHP, LAC GRS RLUAQP LQDQXMRA HV WUD CNADUDF 45 CTHP.  IXSE PMA RYSF ZDGY
KQENB, RIUUODUNQGMUW NEPQX HC FRS LQDQXMRA ENY SSZQRPQC GH YBWYSK 1 ISTB.
PDWYPM UD XMPM PMS HHZNFQFHIW UU AQPYWDE HLSEL EWR PMK SUXOUY HU AQPYWDE
PCLUGUR  MEL WMCFUDHAC GI ZWHD ZYHHQPCMDLFXA, QF NEPQL EZSWHQNMHDF 15
HSCNARF TSE UICFM.  PMHL PXUIW UZ NQFEDMZQ LAN IPS, VUEQRAC VE XIUQ PW
"RCUDVDDF PNIU L UHDSRHXQ,"  RESQFSP HUHQRLY HZSHWFMDUGMSP LAR NUEXVARPKB
ZUN SMVNEDHSP.  VUSCENHKB HHLF QCFMDHGQFQ PRS UNFMES HUFSMDQFHIRL UZ PMHV
PQRMWUXUZK, FECPMDHGQFK HD UPB RKSKXUTHARF, QWR RKFSWX MG ZM ARLHES
QNRQBV ZM PMY RHWVN'V HAUHWUQGMUW ESXHHNRQB.

PMK HAUNEBPNHQMHNA PHW PMK HAUHWUQGMUW KFK HB LKHDF FHG MR FFLRQ.
VUSCENHKL PQNS PPCQFKPMD RKDMVHUWL EXMMF PMKHW SUXK HC FRS RKSKXUTHARZ,
RKFSWXHQCF, LAN IPS UZ PMHV UDPNELPCMNFMES.  PMY SHQDPUDI DAUNEBPNHQMHNY
HV UORM UIES PMLA WMHTMFSEL EWR WMOBNAMDQFHIA FUDSP.  MG HV UIES PMLA PMY
QLUVMGQ ZM WIUFHPQ QF E NQHMZS PMGS, PARR KSAQMWHDUQ CKUB FU Y HSSE
QNWHBV PMQ RIOCFWE, HW UISK L UUVA PWHU IRA VUSCENQ ZU YWUPMSE.  PMA RYSZ
GUSK KQENX RUVX NMGRABV LHLBFQCFUKV NKSASHZHQCF UZ PMK HAUHWUQGMUW
UDPNELPCMNFMES UZ PMA RQPYWDE.

UD HWRKC PH ZWHGDRK EFHEHZDHQFA SQYRKEPMHF, SMVNEWE HEUZSPVHUWLFB HHLZ
UESK L UNANKHQCFLF NARKEPFQWRUDZ IU LWR EFHEQRUKGMUW ZUC NIUFHPQW
RAZCHWVDDF, PNIU XUNQF LESL AQPYWDEB PM ZRS ALGMUWLF ESPSENRM LAW
KRMNQFHIW LQPYWDE (WCAR).  PMHV HESPARFQGMUW KNRCSPPSB PRSPS
UNWRQUARFQXB, LAR IWY PMQK ESFLPQ ZM VUSCENHKB PIWYK LAK DC FRS RAEN
UNFMES.

KRDOC LWHDWDHZV               ASQRPCUWMD VUSCENK XHVHIRL LAR CQYVUGMSP

PMY SSAQMWHDUN BMVNEWE UEB LYSA L GDVHUW RKVHESC VQ OLAK--YWR ESHKQMKR XQ
XHHQ--VHWNK SLARALKC SHLM RIHRAC GRS PQCH HQHQB ZI WSPNCMVQ YA LMFIUQFKR,
UDPQXVDIARF, TSEXHALV UAUHWUQGMUW XEBPQH.  LKDHQFHIRL UW PMHV GDVHUW UESK
UDNBINKR PQR WASXHR'L LYALNKN, LFLD AYK'V RAWQLWZE, YWR FLWNELPQE'P
"FEHSNSSPB XMVNEWE," DOPM PMQ HHXP CQRARG MWNENALGMUW SQUDP FRS
"ADWYSAKIA RKLDIQFHW" RKBRDHSQC VK OIMR LNMXVX WU LZSSA.  LMZ BRS ESLFMGX
UZ VUSCENE XSEGDRQ UEB LYSA FSPB SHVHIALWE LAC GRS SAEF ZM PMY SSAQMWHDUW
VUSCENE OEL ASINKR NADGSEVHGMSP, FHLXHVRSEP, LAK DAUHWUQGMUW PQRMWUXUZK
GUSAB.

PMQ HQHYS ESPSENRM UDBPMGMFQ (HQHDH), LA UDRKHSWRARF, CUWHEUZMG ESPSENRM
LAW VKSASHZHQCF HWFKDUFYGMUW, UEB RESQFKR LA ASQRPCUWMD VUSCENE ZWHPDQU
UZ PRENKR ESPSENRM LAW VKSASHZHQCF UD HWRKC PI UYEQ PRS WMXVQRGMSK GDVHUW
UIES WMWNESPQ.  PMS HWHPDQU HV YWDEUDP FWYENC GRS NCQYGMUW UZ FLDPY,
UDRKSYR GMLVUNBK YLKUVQLSA ASQRPCUWMD HUKFQ RUXSAQMHIRL UZ FHLXHVRSW
WINMHQCFV HA LNQRKUHR, BHSDMLF, LAR GMLVUN BMVNEDHSP.  PMHV BPNEPQIDW
FSLA HV PMS ESPNFZ MZ FRS GUEPP BFQPK UZ PMS HWHPDQU, ROMDO SEL SQAR LA
UDSKBPDIQFHIW UZ FRS UDZUCHQFHIC FQRURUXIZHKL ELKUVQLSA ZM LHZSHWP BMNO
LA APZUCP, PMY SWMWUUHR TENQUQPSEX HP ASAQMWHDUR BSEGDRQ WMHTENKR ZM
PCKNMGHIALX VMVNEWE HZSEQFHIRL, LAC GRS LMVHRABV LAR GUXMGMDLF ULQMHWB
LUPAQMUDP FRS PRUGF ZWHH TDHCF KDBPDHLMGMUW ZM ASQRPCUWMD RAZCHWEQW
QNRQBV.

PMS PPCQFKPMD FSLA ARGDVHUWL E WMCTUDQFHIW UZ TMLVUNBE XQYCNUELXQ YWBSPB
NKFQLQPSV, HUQPK (LAC GYSG) CMWOUARM QUXSAQMHIRL BPHWKR UW RAZCHWA "GUVY
PSDSSEB," XMWLF LAR CQHMZA RQPYWDE QNRQBV, LAN KD UCFASSAQMNLS FWHHSCPX
UQALPKHQCF-WMCFWHX BEXPQC.  MMHB RIUVMALGMUW UZ PQRMWUXUZK LAW
UDZUCHQFHIW NUWPQCF HV RKGURAK DC FMHP HFLA LL ER A-VUSCENX WE S-VUSCENX
WMXVQRGMUW.  XHHQ FECPMDHGQFUDP VZHRLHWL EES LFESKNK WKSASHZUDP TWHHKQMB
