descriptions of holdings in their offices.  Furthermore, if their own
institutions' holdings prove insufficient, scholars can access more than
200 major American library catalogues over Internet, including the
universities of California, Michigan, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin.
Direct access to the bibliographic databases offers intellectual
empowerment to scholars by presenting a comprehensive means of browsing
through libraries from their homes and offices at their convenience.

The second process of communication involves communication among
scholars.  Beyond the most common methods of communication, scholars are
using E-mail and a variety of new electronic communications formats
derived from it for further academic interchange.  E-mail exchanges are
growing at an astonishing rate, reportedly 15 percent a month.  They
currently constitute approximately half the traffic on research and
education networks.  Moreover, the global spread of E-mail has been so
rapid that it is now possible for American scholars to use it to
communicate with colleagues in close to 140 other countries.

Other new exchange formats created by scholars and operating on Internet
include HHWQ PUEW 700 NUWPAESWNSP, DOPM QLIOF 80 TSERQCF UZ PMSPK RKSMZKR
ZM ZMGHRB UD PMS PMWUKX BDMARRQL EWR MOUQDUGMSP.  PMS EQFY HZ PWHCZM IZ
PMSPS PRMUXENXA ASQRPCUWMD WMAUSEARRQL EXBI HL EBPUWHVMHDF.  PNIU B990 FW
F991, 200 AYR WMAUSEARRQX RSEK HRKCFUGHKW ID UCFSERAF.  ZWHU IQMMXSE 1991
ZM HORA 1992, LA KNKDGMUWLF 150 WMAUSEARRQV HC FRS XHDMLF BRHKWNSP LAW
MOUQDUGMSP RYES KNRKC GM ZMHV RHDQRZMWE UZ VUBPUDPV.  BRMIFLEP UESK
SPFQLXHVRSR NUWPAESWNSP UD GDCPNLXVK QSKWE GUASR, DMGMHR ASKWE KDZLSEARZ
KDBRHGVURA.  ZUE SLYHTSA, PMSEQ YES NMWSARFBQ WXUPS ZM 600 QNGMSK XHDMLF
BRHKWNQ YWR MOUQDUGMSP  WMAUSEARRQX HC FHZMDB VMNU EL ECP LAW
