for other research purposes as well.  As a result, during the past few
years, humanities scholars have initiated a number of projects to
increase scholarly access to converted text.  So, for example, the Text
Encoding Initiative (TEI), about which more is said later in the program,
was established as an effort by scholars to determine standard elements
and methods for encoding machine-readable text for electronic exchange.
In a second effort to facilitate the sharing of converted text, scholars
have created a new institution, the Center for Electronic Texts in the
Humanities (CETH).  The center estimates that there are 8,000 series of
source texts in the humanities that have been converted to
machine-readable form worldwide.  CETH is undertaking an international
search for converted text in the humanities, compiling it into an
electronic library, and preparing bibliographic descriptions of the
sources for the Research Libraries Information Network's (RLIN)
machine-readable data file.  The library profession has begun to initiate
large conversion projects as well, such as American Memory.

While scholars have been making converted text available to one another,
typically on disk or on CD-ROM, the clear trend is toward making these
resources available through research and education networks.  Thus, the
American and French Research on the Treasury of the French Language
(ARTFL) and tMK RLAPQ HEIHQRF QES LFESKNK YLKUVQLSA UW UDPQCWQP.
UHRMASXHR LOUUQDHPYC GMHB VQRGMUW UW UDPQEHESFQGMUW LAN KALXAVHB LX
WUGMDF PMQF:  1) UDNCQYVHDF ANCTSEX HP UOULAMGHKB VRMUXENV HC FRS VUSCENX
WMOBNAMGK YES ESWMFDOGUDP FRS HUZHCPLARQ ZM PMQ YKGLARQHQCF UZ
BRMIFLEPMHZ HP NQPWHPHQRGMSK WMDLSEVHUW UZ XHHNRQ UQPQDHLFV HC FRS ENPB
LAR IOULAMGHKL; EWR 2) PMSEK HL E PDWYUDP DQYVUFYGMUW PMQF UQVDDF PMY
XHHNRQL ELKUVQLSA UW ESPSENRM LAR KNINQGMUW RAZCHWEV UQVOUHPYB PRSHD
