half those long words, and, what's more, I don't believe you do
either!'  And the Eaglet bent down its head to hide a smile:
some of the other birds tittered audibly.

  `What I was going to say,' said the Dodo in an offended tone,
`was, that the best thing to get us dry would be a Caucus-race.'

  `What IS a Caucus-race?' said Alice; not that she wanted much
to know, but the Dodo had paused as if it thought that SOMEBODY
ought to speak, and no one else seemed inclined to say anything.

  `Why,' said the Dodo, `the best way to explain it is to do it.'
(And, as you might like to try the thing yourself, some winter
day, I will tell you how the Dodo managed it.)

  First it marked out a race-course, in a sort of circle, (`the
exact shape doesn't matter,' it said,) and then all the party
were placed along the course, here and there.  There was no `One,
two, three, and away,' but they began running when they liked,
and left off when they liked, so that it was not easy to know
when the race was over.  However, when they had been running half
an hour or so, and were quite dry again, the Dodo suddenly called
out `The race is over!' and they all crowded round it, panting,
and asking, `But who has won?'

  This question the Dodo could not answer without a great deal of
thought, and it sat for a long time with one finger pressed upon
its forehead (the position in which you usually see Shakespeare,
in the pictures of him), while the rest waited in silence.  At
last the Dodo said, `EVERYBODY has won, and all must have
prizes.'

  `But who is to give the prizes?' quite a chorus of voices
asked.

  `Why, SHE, of course,' said the Dodo, pointing to Alice with
one finger; and the whole party at once crowded round her,
calling out in a confused way, `Prizes! Prizes!'

  Alice had no idea what to do, and in despair she put her hand
in her pocket, and pulled out a box of comfits, (luckily the salt
water had not got into it), and handed them round as prizes.
There was exactly one a-piece all round.

  `But she must have a prize herself, you know,' said the Mouse.

  `Of course,' the Dodo replied very gravely.  `What else have
you got in your pocket?' he went on, turning to Alice.

  `Only a thimble,' said Alice sadly.

  `Hand it over here,' said the Dodo.

  Then they all crowded round her once more, while the Dodo
solemnly presented the thimble, saying `We beg your acceptance of
this elegant thimble'; and, when it had finished this short
speech, they all cheered.

  Alice thought the whole thing very absurd, but they all looked
so grave that she did not dare to laugh; and, as she could not
think of anything to say, she simply bowed, and took the thimble,
looking as solemn as she could.

  The next thing was to eat the comfits:  this caused some noise
and confusion, as the large birds complained that they could not
taste theirs, and the small ones choked and had to be patted on
the back.  However, it was over at last, and they sat down again
in a ring, and begged the Mouse to tell them something more.

  `You promised to tell me your history, you know,' said Alice,
`and why it is you hate--C and D,' she added in a whisper, half
afraid that it would be offended again.

  `Mine is a long and a sad tale!' said the Mouse, turning to
Alice, and sighing.

  `It IS a long tail, certainly,' said Alice, looking down with
wonder at the Mouse's tail; `but why do you call it sad?'  And
she kept on puzzling about it while the Mouse was speaking, so
that her idea of the tale was something like this:--

                    `Fury said to a
                   mouse, That he
                 met in the
               house,
            "Let us
              both go to
                law:  I will
                  prosecute
                    YOU.  --Come,
                       I'll take no
                        denial; We
                     must have a
                 trial:  For
              really this
           morning I've
          nothing
         to do."
           Said the
             mouse to the
               cur, "Such
                 a trial,
                   dear Sir,
                         With
                     no jury
                  or judge,
                would be
              wasting
             our
              breath."
               "I'll be
                 judge, I'll
                   be jury,"
                         Said
                    cunning
                      old Fury:
                     "I'll
                      try the
                         whole
                          cause,
                             and
                        condemn
                       you
                      to
                       death."'


  `You are not attending!' said the Mouse to Alice severely.
`What are you thinking of?'

  `I beg your pardon,' said Alice very humbly:  `you had got to
the fifth bend, I think?'

  `I had NOT!' cried the Mouse, sharply and very angrily.

  `A knot!' said Alice, always ready to make herself useful, and
looking anxiously about her.  `Oh, do let me help to undo it!'

  `I shall do nothing of the sort,' said the Mouse, getting up
and walking away.  `You insult me by talking such nonsense!'

  `I didn't mean it!' pleaded poor Alice.  `But you're so easily
offended, you know!'

  The Mouse only growled in reply.

  `Please come back and finish your story!' Alice called after
it; and the others all joined in chorus, `Yes, please do!' but
the Mouse only shook its head impatiently, and walked a little
quicker.

  `What a pity it wouldn't stay!' sighed the Lory, as soon as it
was quite out of sight; and an old Crab took the opportunity of
saying to her daughter `Ah, my dear!  Let this be a lesson to you
never to lose YOUR temper!'  `Hold your tongue, Ma!' said the
young Crab, a little snappishly.  `You're enough to try the
patience of an oyster!'

  `I wish I had our Dinah here, I know I do!' said Alice aloud,
addressing nobody in particular.  `She'd soon fetch it back!'

  `And who is Dinah, if I might venture to ask the question?'
said the Lory.

  Alice replied eagerly, for she was always ready to talk about
her pet:  `Dinah's our cat.  And she's such a capital one for
catching mice you can't think!  And oh, I wish you could see her
after the birds!  Why, she'll eat a little bird as soon as look
at it!'

  This speech caused a remarkable sensation among the party.
Some of the birds hurried off at once:  one the old Magpie began
wrapping itself up very carefully, remarking, `I really must be
getting home; the night-air doesn't suit my throat!' and a Canary
called out in a trembling voice to its children, `Come away, my
dears!  It's high time you were all in bed!'  On various pretexts
they all moved off, and Alice was soon left alone.

  `I wish I hadn't mentioned Dinah!' she said to herself in a
melancholy tone.  `Nobody seems to like her, down here, and I'm
sure she's the best cat in the world!  Oh, my dear Dinah!  I
wonder if I shall ever see you any more!'  And here poor Alice
began to cry again, for she felt very lonely and low-spirited.
In a little while, however, she again heard a little pattering of
footsteps in the distance, and she looked up eagerly, half hoping
that the Mouse had changed his mind, and was coming back to
finish his story.



                           CHAPTER IV

                The Rabbit Sends in a Little Bill


  It was the White Rabbit, trotting slowly back again, and
looking anxiously about as it went, as if it had lost something;
and she heard it muttering to itself `The Duchess!  The Duchess!
Oh my dear paws!  Oh my fur and whiskers!  She'll get me
executed, as sure as ferrets are ferrets!  Where CAN I have
dropped them, I wonder?'  Alice guessed in a moment that it was
looking for the fan and the pair of white kid gloves, and she
very good-naturedly began hunting about for them, but they were
nowhere to be seen--everything seemed to have changed since her
swim in the pool, and the great hall, with the glass table and
the little door, had vanished completely.

  Very soon the Rabbit noticed Alice, as she went hunting about,
and called out to her in an angry tone, `Why, Mary Ann, what ARE
you doing out here?  Run home this moment, and fetch me a pair of
gloves and a fan!  Quick, now!'  And Alice was so much frightened
that she ran off at once in the direction it pointed to, without
trying to explain the mistake it had made.

  `He took me for his housemaid,' she said to herself as she ran.
`How surprised he'll be when he finds out who I am!  But I'd
better take him his fan and gloves--that is, if I can find them.'
As she said this, she came upon a neat little house, on the door
of which was a bright brass plate with the name `W. RABBIT'
engraved upon it.  She went in without knocking, and hurried
upstairs, in great fear lest she should meet the real Mary Ann,
and be turned out of the house before she had found the fan and
gloves.

  `How queer it seems,' Alice said to herself, `to be going
messages for a rabbit!  I suppose Dinah'll be sending me on
messages next!'  And she began fancying the sort of thing that
would happen:  `"Miss Alice!  Come here directly, and get ready
for your walk!" "Coming in a minute, nurse!  But I've got to see
that the mouse doesn't get out."  Only I don't think,' Alice went
on, `that they'd let Dinah stop in the house if it began ordering
people about like that!'

  By this time she had found her way into a tidy little room with
a table in the window, and on it (as she had hoped) a fan and two
or three pairs of tiny white kid gloves:  she took up the fan and
a pair of the gloves, and was just going to leave the room, when
her eye fell upon a little bottle that stood near the looking-
glass.  There was no label this time with the words `DRINK ME,'
but nevertheless she uncorked it and put it to her lips.  `I know
SOMETHING interesting is sure to happen,' she said to herself,
`whenever I eat or drink anything; so I'll just see what this
bottle does.  I do hope it'll make me grow large again, for
really I'm quite tired of being such a tiny little thing!'

  It did so indeed, and much sooner than she had expected:
before she had drunk half the bottle, she found her head pressing
against the ceiling, and had to stoop to save her neck from being
broken.  She hastily put down the bottle, saying to herself
`That's quite enough--I hope I shan't grow any more--As it is, I
can't get out at the door--I do wish I hadn't drunk quite so
much!'

  Alas! it was too late to wish that!  She went on growing, and
growing, and very soon had to kneel down on the floor:  in
another minute there was not even room for this, and she tried
the effect of lying down with one elbow against the door, and the
other arm curled round her head.  Still she went on growing, and,
as a last resource, she put one arm out of the window, and one
foot up the chimney, and said to herself `Now I can do no more,
whatever happens.  What WILL become of me?'

  Luckily for Alice, the little magic bottle had now had its full
effect, and she grew no larger:  still it was very uncomfortable,
and, as there seemed to be no sort of chance of her ever getting
out of the room again, no wonder she felt unhappy.

  `It was much pleasanter at home,' thought poor Alice, `when one
wasn't always growing larger and smaller, and being ordered about
by mice and rabbits.  I almost wish I hadn't gone down that
rabbit-hole--and yet--and yet--it's rather curious, you know,
this sort of life!  I do wonder what CAN have happened to me!
When I used to read fairy-tales, I fancied that kind of thing
never happened, and now here I am in the middle of one!  There
ought to be a book written about me, that there ought!  And when
I grow up, I'll write one--but I'm grown up now,' she added in a
sorrowful tone; `at least there's no room to grow up any more
HERE.'

  `But then,' thought Alice, `shall I NEVER get any older than I
am now?  That'll be a comfort, one way--never to be an old woman-
-but then--always to have lessons to learn!  Oh, I shouldn't like
THAT!'

  `Oh, you foolish Alice!' she answered herself.  `How can you
learn lessons in here?  Why, there's hardly room for YOU, and no
room at all for any lesson-books!'

  And so she went on, taking first one side and then the other,
and making quite a conversation of it altogether; but after a few
minutes she heard a voice outside, and stopped to listen.

  `Mary Ann!  Mary Ann!' said the voice.  `Fetch me my gloves
this moment!'  Then came a little pattering of feet on the
stairs.  Alice knew it was the Rabbit coming to look for her, and
she trembled till she shook the house, quite forgetting that she
was now about a thousand times as large as the Rabbit, and had no
reason to be afraid of it.

  Presently the Rabbit came up to the door, and tried to open it;
but, as the door opened inwards, and Alice's elbow was pressed
hard against it, that attempt proved a failure.  Alice heard it
say to itself `Then I'll go round and get in at the window.'

  `THAT you won't' thought Alice, and, after waiting till she
fancied she heard the Rabbit just under the window, she suddenly
spread out her hand, and made a snatch in the air.  She did not
get hold of anything, but she heard a little shriek and a fall,
and a crash of broken glass, from which she concluded that it was
just possible it had fallen into a cucumber-frame, or something
of the sort.

  Next came an angry voice--the Rabbit's--`Pat! Pat!  Where are
you?'  And then a voice she had never heard before, `Sure then
I'm here!  Digging for apples, yer honour!'

  `Digging for apples, indeed!' said the Rabbit angrily.  `Here!
Come and help me out of THIS!'  (Sounds of more broken glass.)

  `Now tell me, Pat, what's that in the window?'

  `Sure, it's an arm, yer honour!'  (He pronounced it `arrum.')

  `An arm, you goose!   Who ever saw one that size?  Why, it
fills the whole window!'

  `Sure, it does, yer honour:  but it's an arm for all that.'

  `Well, it's got no business there, at any rate:  go and take it
away!'

  There was a long silence after this, and Alice could only hear
whispers now and then; such as, `Sure, I don't like it, yer
honour, at all, at all!'  `Do as I tell you, you coward!' and at
last she spread out her hand again, and made another snatch in
the air.  This time there were TWO little shrieks, and more
sounds of broken glass.  `What a number of cucumber-frames there
must be!' thought Alice.  `I wonder what they'll do next!  As for
pulling me out of the window, I only wish they COULD!  I'm sure I
don't want to stay in here any longer!'

  She waited for some time without hearing anything more:  at
last came a rumbling of little cartwheels, and the sound of a
good many voice all talking together:  she made out the words:
`Where's the other ladder?--Why, I hadn't to bring but one;
Bill's got the other--Bill! fetch it here, lad!--Here, put 'em up
at this corner--No, tie 'em together first--they don't reach half
high enough yet--Oh! they'll do well enough; don't be particular-
-Here, Bill! catch hold of this rope--Will the roof bear?--Mind
that loose slate--Oh, it's coming down!  Heads below!' (a loud
crash)--`Now, who did that?--It was Bill, I fancy--Who's to go
down the chimney?--Nay, I shan't! YOU do it!--That I won't,
then!--Bill's to go down--Here, Bill! the master says you're to
go down the chimney!'

  `Oh! So Bill's got to come down the chimney, has he?' said
Alice to herself.  `Shy, they seem to put everything upon Bill!
I wouldn't be in Bill's place for a good deal:  this fireplace is
narrow, to be sure; but I THINK I can kick a little!'

  She drew her foot as far down the chimney as she could, and
waited till she heard a little animal (she couldn't guess of what
sort it was) scratching and scrambling about in the chimney close
above her:  then, saying to herself `This is Bill,' she gave one
sharp kick, and waited to see what would happen next.

  The first thing she heard was a general chorus of `There goes
Bill!' then the Rabbit's voice along--`Catch him, you by the
hedge!' then silence, and then another confusion of voices--`Hold
up his head--Brandy now--Don't choke him--How was it, old fellow?
What happened to you?  Tell us all about it!'

  Last came a little feeble, squeaking voice, (`That's Bill,'
thought Alice,) `Well, I hardly know--No more, thank ye; I'm
better now--but I'm a deal too flustered to tell you--all I know
is, something comes at me like a Jack-in-the-box, and up I goes
like a sky-rocket!'

  `So you did, old fellow!' said the others.

  `We must burn the house down!' said the Rabbit's voice; and
Alice called out as loud as she could, `If you do.  I'll set
Dinah at you!'

  There was a dead silence instantly, and Alice thought to
herself, `I wonder what they WILL do next!  If they had any
sense, they'd take the roof off.'  After a minute or two, they
began moving about again, and Alice heard the Rabbit say, `A
barrowful will do, to begin with.'

  `A barrowful of WHAT?' thought Alice; but she had not long to
doubt, for the next moment a shower of little pebbles came
rattling in at the window, and some of them hit her in the face.
`I'll put a stop to this,' she said to herself, and shouted out,
`You'd better not do that again!' which produced another dead
silence.

  Alice noticed with some surprise that the pebbles were all
turning into little cakes as they lay on the floor, and a bright
idea came into her head.  `If I eat one of these cakes,' she
thought, `it's sure to make SOME change in my size; and as it
can't possibly make me larger, it must make me smaller, I
suppose.'

  So she swallowed one of the cakes, and was delighted to find
that she began shrinking directly.  As soon as she was small
enough to get through the door, she ran out of the house, and
found quite a crowd of little animals and birds waiting outside.
The poor little Lizard, Bill, was in the middle, being held up by
two guinea-pigs, who were giving it something out of a bottle.
They all made a rush at Alice the moment she appeared; but she
ran off as hard as she could, and soon found herself safe in a
thick wood.

  `The first thing I've got to do,' said Alice to herself, as she
wandered about in the wood, `is to grow to my right size again;
and the second thing is to find my way into that lovely garden.
I think that will be the best plan.'

  It sounded an excellent plan, no doubt, and very neatly and
simply arranged; the only difficulty was, that she had not the
smallest idea how to set about it; and while she was peering
about anxiously among the trees, a little sharp bark just over
her head made her look up in a great hurry.

  An enormous puppy was looking down at her with large round
eyes, and feebly stretching out one paw, trying to touch her.
`Poor little thing!' said Alice, in a coaxing tone, and she tried
hard to whistle to it; but she was terribly frightened all the
time at the thought that it might be hungry, in which case it
would be very likely to eat her up in spite of all her coaxing.

  Hardly knowing what she did, she picked up a little bit of
stick, and held it out to the puppy; whereupon the puppy jumped
into the air off all its feet at once, with a yelp of delight,
and rushed at the stick, and made believe to worry it; then Alice
dodged behind a great thistle, to keep herself from being run
over; and the moment she appeared on the other side, the puppy
made another rush at the stick, and tumbled head over heels in
its hurry to get hold of it; then Alice, thinking it was very
like having a game of play with a cart-horse, and expecting every
moment to be trampled under its feet, ran round the thistle
again; then the puppy began a series of short charges at the
stick, running a very little way forwards each time and a long
way back, and barking hoarsely all the while, till at last it sat
down a good way off, panting, with its tongue hanging out of its
mouth, and its great eyes half shut.

  This seemed to Alice a good opportunity for making her escape;
so she set off at once, and ran till she was quite tired and out
of breath, and till the puppy's bark sounded quite faint in the
distance.

  `And yet what a dear little puppy it was!' said Alice, as she
leant against a buttercup to rest herself, and fanned herself
with one of the leaves:  `I should have liked teaching it tricks
very much, if--if I'd only been the right size to do it!  Oh
dear!  I'd nearly forgotten that I've got to grow up again!  Let
me see--how IS it to be managed?  I suppose I ought to eat or
drink something or other; but the great question is, what?'

  The great question certainly was, what?  Alice looked all round
her at the flowers and the blades of grass, but she did not PSY
LAQZMHDF PMQF XUIYKR VUEQ PMS EDIMP PMUDP FH YQF HW RCUDA IWRSE
PMQ RHDNMHBFQWNSP.  PMSEY REL L FENPK UOPRWHIU PDWYUDF DQYE RSE,
QLIOZ BRS LEHQ RSDIMP EL RSEPASU; LWR ROAR PRS RKN XUIYKR NARKW
MG, LAW IC LMZR PDKSP UZ MG, LAC VSRUDK DG, MZ MWBHNESC GI MSE
PMQF PRQ HDIMP EL RYXV XUIY LAR VYS ROQF NYX HC FRS ZMZ HG UZ.

  PRS PPCQPRMKR RSEPASU NZ HC FHGZMQ, YWR HSSHKR IXSE PMY SKIY HZ
PMQ HHLREWZU, QWR RSE SKQV HOBKRUKPQXA HQZ BMIPS UZ L FENPK
NQPQEHUVFLC, PUEZ CEL VHZBUDZ IC FRS ZMZ RMGM HPB ENHB ZUVNKR,
AMHKFBE XUIVDDF L FUWP IWZEYU, EWR FQVDDF WUZ BRS BHLFSABP WUGMRQ
UZ RSW HW HU LWAPMUDP KXBY.



                            RMEFPQD S

                    KNGDRQ PNIU Q NQFSEGHXVEN


  PMQ RQFSEGHXVEN LAN KVURQ XUIYKR QF QYRM MZRSN PHW XHHQ GMHQ UD
VHSAWNQ:  YF BELZ BRS NQPQEHUVFLC PWZQ GRS MIIYEU IOZ MG UPB
UIMFU, EWR KNRCSPPSR ISE UD L FLAFIDK, BXYSZE XIMDY.

  `ROU YES XWH?' LKUC GRS NQPQEHUVFLW.

  PMHV NYL RMZ LA ARWMHNKFUDZ IHSDUDF ZUN E WMDLSELEGMUW.  LFMDY
ESFSHKR, CQFRSE POEXA, `O--V UECRXA ADWY, VHD, HHLF QF TESPSCF--
QF SAELG M ADWY ROI H NYX RRSD U ZIF MT FMHB HHWDUDF, LMG M PMUDY
H UHLP MKLQ SYSW NUEDFKR PSSKNEB FHUSP VHWNQ PRSW.'

  `ROQF WI XWO UQYC LQ ZUEP?' BKUC GRS NQPQEHUVFLE PPQCWXA.
`YSFSKUW AIOEPASZ!'

  `M DLA'P QSZFLUD OQPSFU, H'U LUNEDK, VHE' PKUN KVURQ, `SQNQHLY
H'U WUM CEXASZ, AIO PSY.'

  `D KUW'P BYS,' LEDK PMQ RQFSEGHXVEN.

  `H'U LUNEDK M DLA'F TMF MG UIES NBQYNSK,' YVURQ ESFSHKK GSEX
ZHVUPQXA, `ZUD H NQC'F NARKEPFQWR MG OQPSFU ZM SQIDW DMGU; EWR
SQUDP VI ULAK WUGPAESCF VHPYV HA L NKK OB SSEQ WUWUNVHDF.'

  `MG HVC'F,' LEDK PMQ RQFSEGHXVEN.

  `RYXV, HSEREFX EIO UESKC'F ZUNAK DP BW XQP,' LEDK LFMDQ; `SMF
ROAR XWO MKLQ PM ZHND UCFU Y RMWELEVUX--EIO DOXV XHHQ NKX, ZIO
ADWY--LAC GRSA LZFSE PMQF UDZM Q LMFPQNPXA, H VMINFC GMHDA XWN'FX
PAAS MG L FMGFBQ AHASE, YWC'F XWO?'

  `WUF Q VMP,' BKUC GRS NQPQEHUVFLW.

  `RYXV, HSEREFX EION PYSVUDFB HYK SQ KDZLSEARP,' BKUN KVURQ;
`LFV U ADWY HV, MG YWNFN GYSX SSEK AHASE ZM HQ.'

  `XWH!' LKUC GRS NQPQEHUVFLC NUWPQHTFMIOBXX.  `YMI ENQ KIO?'

  ROMDM SWHIFMP PMQH LQDQ KFKUC FM ZRS SQIDWLUDZ IZ FRS
WMDLSELEGMUW.  LFMDA PASF Q VUZBSA HDDHFQPQN KZ BRS NQPQEHUVFLE'P
UQVDDF LHRM SKWE PRHWP CQHENEV, LAR VRS RCYR RSEPASU NF EWR LEDK,
SKWE PDKLASK, `O PMUDE, KIO IOPIZ BM ZASB UY RMI XWN LES, GUEPZ.'

  `ROE?' XKUC GRS NQPQEHUVFLW.

  RSES NYL EWUPMSE FHOZVUDF AMSPGMUW; LAN KL EVURQ WMNFR WMZ
PMUDY IU LWA ZIIW ESELUW, LAN KB PRS NQPQEHUVFLE PYSHQC GM XK HW
K LSEA ORFSAELLAP BFQPQ UZ UHWR, PRQ PHNRAN KNYX.

  `WMHQ LQDQ!' PMQ RQFSEGHXVEN NQXVKR LUPQE RSE.  `D'GS PIUQPMHDF
HUZHCPLAZ BH XYK!'

  PMHV XHNARKR GWHUHVHDF, RQCPKUAFK:  YVURQ FMCWKR LAR NQUQ SQNY
KFKUW.

  `EQSH XWHN PQHTSE,' LEDK PMQ RQFSEGHXVEN.

  `HV PMQF LFX?' BKUN KVURQ, XRLFXUDODF WIDW RSN EDFSE EL RYXV EL
PRQ RIOVN.

  `WU,' LEDK PMQ RQFSEGHXVEN.

  LFMDQ PMIIFMP PRQ HDIMP EL RYXV NYMG, EL PRS RKN WUPMUDP KXBY
ZM WI, LAR GSEUEHP LUPQN EXV MG UHPIZ BASS USE XHHQPMUDZ DHWPM
RSENUDP.  ZHW XHHQ UHANPQV HF TNUPAN KNYX YMGMIMF PHQYVDDF, LMZ
QF FLBP MG NAZUVNKR MGL ECHB, PWZQ GRS MIIYEU IOZ MG UPB UIMFO
KFKUA, LWR LEDK, `XH XWM FMHDA XWH'NQ RUEDFKR, WI XWO?'

  `H'U LUNEDK U KH, BHD,' LEDK LFMDK; `H NQC'F ESHQCTSE PMUDPV EL
H OPSN--KWR D KUW'G QYST FRS LEHQ VHPY ZUC PAR UHANPQB PIZQPRSW!'

  `NQC'F ESHQCTSE ROQF PMUDPV?' LEDK PMQ RQFSEGHXVEN.

  `RYXV, D'GQ PDHKR ZM LEE "OWY WIPM PMA SMGFBQ SHLQ XYS," LMG MZ
LFB NQUK RUGPAESCF!' LFMDS ESHVUKR UD K LSEQ OASLARMUXK XIHRQ.

  `ESHSQF, "XWN LES UXN, GQFRSC DUVVUQU,"' LEDK PMQ RQFSEGHXVEN.

  LFMDA PUXRKR ISE UEWRL, EWR SQFKW:--

    `XWN LES UXN, GQFRSC DUVVUQU,' PMQ KIODF UQR LKUW,
      `LAW KIOE RKUE REL SQWMHQ SKWE ROMGY;
    LAW KQP XWO HWNSPLECFXA BPLAW IW AIOE RQYW--
      WI XWM FMHDA, QF XWHN KFK, HG MP EDIMP?'

    `UD OQ XWMFU,' PQFRSC DUVVUQU ESFSHKC GI MHV XHW,
      `U GQYESK DM CDIMP UDHOES PMQ SNEUD;
    LMF, CWY PMQF H'U HSNPQRFBE XHNK H UESK WURA,
      ROK, O WI MG KFKUA LWR KFKUW.'

    `XWN LES UXR,' VKUC GRS XWMFU, `EV H HQCFHIRAC VAPHWY,
      LAR IKLK PWHDW UIBP NAWMOBUWXA ULZ;
    KQZ QIO FMCWKR Q LQNE-VIUSELENFG MA LZ BRS WIHW--
      HEYK, ROQF HV PMS EQYXHW UZ FUEZ?'

    `UD OQ XWMFR,' PKUC GRS LEPK, EL RS PRWZE IHV PDQK XUDQB,
      `D VSHF QXV OQ VUCTB SSEE XHFFSY
    XQ PMA HPS UZ PMHV IHCFHQCF--UWS PMHXVUDP FRS XMV--
      LFXUC OQ PH XASX AIO Q NIOFSY?'

    `XWN LES UXR,' VKUC GRS XWMFU, `EWR XWHN UKRX ENQ PWZ RYYE
      ZUN EWAPMUDP FIOPISE PMLA LHQP;
    KQZ QIO GUDUPRKR PMK PWZPS, DOPM PMQ SUWSP LAC GRS SQYE--
      HEYK MID RDK XWO ULAKFQ PI WI HZ?'

    `UD OQ XWMFR,' PKUR IHV ULPMSE, `M GWZQ GM ZRS FLY,
      LAN KDPHAR KQNM RELY RMGM UX YUGY;
    LAC GRS UOBRNFEN BPESDFPM, ROMDM HF PKLQ PI UK OYN,
      UEB XELPQC GRS ESBP UZ OQ VUPA.'

    `XWN LES UXR,' VKUC GRS XWMFM, `IRA YWNFR IENNVE XHFZHPS
      PMQF XWHN QKY REL EL BPQYWK EL KSSE;
    KQZ QIO LQFLWNKR LA YSX UC FRS ARW IZ AIOC WHXY--
      ROQF UQRK XWH LU YNZNFXA NBKSSE?'

    `H MKLQ YRLRYESC GREYS AMSPGMUWL, EWR PMQF HV ARIOPI,'
      LEDK MHL PQFRSC; `RUW'F PDGQ KIOEPASU LHDB!
    WI XWM FMHDA M DLA VUBPAR LFV NYK ZM LHRM BPNUZ?
      SQ UZZ, UD H'XV VDDQ XWI NWYR LFQHDB!'


  `PMQF HV WUP BKUR CDIMP,' LEDK PMQ RQFSEGHXVEN.

  `WUM BOHPQ DHPIG, M'U QPNKUR,' VKUN KVURQ, GMUHNVE; `XIUY HZ FRS
YWCRP RKLK PMZ LFPQESW.'

  `MG HV DCUWP ZWHC TKPUDDUDF ZM ARR,' VKUC GRS NQPQEHUVFLW
RKDMRKNVK, YWR PMSEY REL VHSAWNA PHW XHHQ UHANPQB.

  PMQ RQFSEGHXVEN NYB PRS GUEPZ BH XHSYE.

  `ROQF VHPY WI XWO NLAZ BM XK?' HF QVEKR.

  `IM, H'U WUF TENGMNMFLN EB PH XOGQ,' YVURQ UEBPUVE WSHVUKR;
`UWXA UWK RHYLR'F BDVQ RUEDFUDP VW ZZFAR, XWI AWUY.'

  `D KUW'G QWUR,' XKUC GRS NQPQEHUVFLW.

  LFMDS PKUR WMZMHDF:  PRS RKN RASKC SYSR LI UMNM RUWPCKNMDPQK DW
RSN SUGQ SAPHWQ, YWR PRA PASZ BUEP BRS NYB XHXUDP ISE PQHTSE.

  `ENQ KIO WMCFARF CWY?' LEDK PMQ RQFSEGHXVEN.

  `RYXV, H VMINFN VDVQ PM XQ Y VUZBSA FLDPSE, VHD, HZ AIO
YWNFRW'M CUDR,' VKUN KVURQ:  `PMESK HWNRSV HB VMNU E DCQPRMKR
RSDIMP ZM SQ.'

  `MG HV K LSEK ZWZR IKHPIG MWRYSR!' VKUC GRS NQPQEHUVFLW
LAPDUVE, WQYDHDF MGPSFU HFDHPIF QV HP BZHEQ (MG NYP SLYQMXA PMESY
UDRMSP MHPI).

  `LMG M'U CMZ HLKR ZM MG!' FSQYRKR GWZN EVURQ UD E FMGYHHL ZMRA.
LAR VRS PMIOPIZ MP USEPSFU, `O DHVM PRS NCQYFMESX RIOVNC'F SQ XH
QYVHXA UZPAWRKR!'

  `XWN'FV FQP HLKR ZM MG UD GMHQ,' LEDK PMQ RQFSEGHXVEN; LAK DZ
FHZ BRS MIIYEU UDZM MGB HIOPM LAC VKPLA BHIYUDF KFKUD.

  PMHV GMHQ LFMDY RKUPQR GQFHKCFXA NAGMV UM QMIPS ZM PHQYE YFKUD.
UD Q UUDMFY HC PYW PMQ RQFSEGHXVEN ZMIY PMS RWZEYM IMF UZ MGB
UIMFU EWR KYDWKR UWRQ HW ZCMDQ, YWR PRWZV DPBASZ.  FRSD UF PMZ
WIDW UZZ FRS UOPRWHIU, LAR NNENXKR YNYK UD PMK PNEBV, HQESXA
ESUQDEUDF KV HZ CARZ, `MRA VHRK DOXV UQEQ XWI FWHC ZLFSAN, EWR
PMY HPMSE VHRK DOXV UQEQ XWI FWHR XMICPSE.'

  `UWS PDKY HZ NUEZ?  BRS MZRSE PDKY HZ NUEZ?' BMIIFMP LFMDQ PW
RSEPASZ.

  `UZ PMQ HHLREWZH,' BKUC GRS NQPQEHUVFLD, HHLF QV HP LRS UEW
ELEQK DF QXUIN; LAK DA LWUPMSE UIHQCF MG NYX HMF UZ VHPIZ.

  LFMDS EQHKURAN VWZVDDF PMIOPIFZNFXA QF PMQ HHLREWZU THW Y
UHANPQ, PCKODF ZM UQEQ IOZ CMHRM RYES PMQ PYW VHRKX HG UF; QWR EL
MG NYP HSEPAQMXA WHNAR, VRS ZUNAC GMHL E SKWE KDZLMDNFM BHABPHIW.
MIRYSKN, EF BELP BRS BPESMQRSR ISE ENHB WHNAK DF QL PEN EL PMQK
YWNFK IU, YWR SCIYY HZL Q LMG UZ PMY SKIY RMGR SQNO SLAW.

  `LAR WWY ROMDM HX RMHRM?' PRS PKUC GI MSEPSFU, LAR WMVLXKR Y
VUZBSA UZ PMS EDIMP-UEWR VMZ BM ZWE PMY SZLQRZ:  BRS RABZ UIHQCF
PRA PASF Q GDUXARM TXUN OWRSERAQFO SSE RMUD:  MG UER VPCMNE ISE
ZUMZ!

  PRY REL K FWZW VQYF UDHPIPQRAC VQ ZMHB SSEE XINRKW NUEDFQ, SMF
PRA PASZ BUEZ BRSES NYL RM ZHUQ PM XA SHXF, QB VRS NYB VREUDVDDF
NEGHNVE; XH XRS PSZ BW YHWE YZ MWNQ PH YQF XHHQ UZ PMY HPMSE VMZ.
RSC NMHW DEL HESPPSR VM WXUPSXA KFKURLP MSE ZUMZ, PMQF PMSEY REL
UECRXA WHIU ZM HZAR RSC HIOPM; LMP BRS KDK DF QF BELF, QWR
UQALPKC GH XNYXVWY Q UHWPSX UZ FRS SAZFUEWR VMZ.


     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

         *       *       *       *       *       *

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

  `WMHQ, OQ RSKN'L PESQ YF BELP!' BKUN KVURQ UD Q FUWY HZ
RKVUPIZ, CMHRM RMLAPKK DCFU YFLCH UD LAMZRSC HIUARZ, CRSR LRS
ZUNAC GUEP MSE PRIOVNSEX RSEA RWYRSES ZM SQ ZUNAN:  KXV PRQ RIOVN
PSY, RRSR LRS XUIYKR WIDW, NYL ED UOBARPS SADFPM UZ RADQ, ROMDO
PSQHKR ZM DHPS VUEQ E LFQVA IOZ MU L PSY UZ PESAR SAKLSP PMQF FLX
ULC SASWY RSW.

  `ROQF NQA LXV PMQF PDYSR LFMZL SQ?' LEDK LFMDQ.  `YWR ROSEY
UESK OQ PRIOVNSEV PMZ ZM?  LAW IM, UE ZWZE RLARV, MID OV HG M
NQC'F PSQ KIO?'  PRY REL UIGDDF PMQH QLIOF QB VRS PHIYQ, SMF WU
ESLHBF PSQHKR ZM ZUXVWY, YSRQTF L FMGFBS PUEVDDF QUUWP FRS
KDBPLAF PESAR SAKLSP.

  EL PMSES PYSHQC GM XA RM WUEWNY HZ PQPGMDF RSE RLARV HF ZM RSW
RSKN, PRQ PDHKR ZM PKP MSE RSKN WIDW ZM PMQH, LAR DEL RKVUPIPQW
ZM GUWR PMQF RSC WQRY DIOVN SQWR QLIOP QELUVK OA LWA KDESQMHIW,
VUEQ E LSEHSCF.  PRS RKN HOBP LHWBYSRKK DW NHNGDDF MG WIDW UDZM Y
PDQNAPNF GOPGKF, LAR DEL ZIUDP FI WDGK HA LUIDF PMA SQYSKX, RMHRM
PRA PIOWR ZM SQ WUPMUDT VMF PMQ PHZX HZ FRS PCYSL HWRSE ROMDR PRS
UEC VYSW DLARKDHDF, ROAR E LUEEH MHBV UQRK RSC RNEC XQNV DA L
MOWSK:  Y FLDPS HDIYHR UKN UFWYD UCFI MSE ULRQ, LAR DEL SQQFUDZ
RSD SHISACFXA DOPM MGX RUDPV.

  `PSEHARP!' BNCQYHQC GRS GHPKUW.

  `H'U WUF Q PSEHARP!' BKUN KVURQ UDKDFDLAFBA.  `XQP HQ LFUWY!'

  `PSEHARG, M LEK YFKUD!' ESHSQFKR PMS HDIYHC, LMF UD Q UHWY
LHVCHAC GUWQ, YWR KNRKR DMGU E VDWR UZ XHV, `M'SK PCHKR KSKWE
NYK, YWR WUPMUDP VYSHB ZM LHMG PMQH!'

  `H MKLAR'Z BRS SAELG MRKY NUEZ QIO'ES FQVAUDF KXMMF,' LEDK
LFMDY.

  `D'GQ PDHKR PMS EWZPB UZ PCYSL, EWR D'GQ PDHKR LQDAL, EWR D'GY
PCHKR IKRPKB,' PRS GHPKUW RYCF UW, DOPMIOF QZBARKDDF ZM RSC; `SMF
PMHXS PSEHSCFB!  PRSES'L RH ZSAELUDP FRSO!'

  LFMDY REL UIES LAC IHWS HOFFXKR, LMP BRS PMIOPIZ BRSES NYL RW
HLK HR LYKUDF KWAPMUDT IHWQ PUVB FRS GHPKUW UEN GUDHVRSW.

  `EL UG MG NYLR'Z BWHMLSA ARIOPI UEMQMHDF PMY SZVB,' VKUC GRS
GHPKUW; `LMG M UOBP SQ UW PMA SWZY-IMF ZUE PSEHSCFL RDIMP LAW
NKX!  YOE, H MKLAR'P MKN Y NUDY IP LSASH PMSPQ PREYS RYQEB!'

  `H'U SKWE XHWSX ZIO'SK SQAR LAWUKQR,' VKUN KVURQ, ROW YEL
SQIDWLUDP FH XYS MGB HQYDUDF.

  `LAK DHLF QV H'C GYEAR PMS RDIRSBP PCYS UD PMY RWZR,' NUWGMANKR
PMS HDIYHW, CKUVHDF MGB SIHRQ ZM E LREHKE, `YWR HOBP EL O DEL
PMUDVDDF H VMINFC VA PESY HZ FRSU QF BELZ, BRSQ OHLF CYSRV WMHQ
DCDIFVUDI KWYA UWHC MRS VEA!  OPI, PSEHARZ!'

  `LMG M'U CMZ E LSEHSCF, M GASX AIO!' LEDK LFMDK.  `H'U Q--H'U
Y--'

  `RYXV!  ROQF ENQ KIO?' LEDK PMS HDIYHD.  `U NQR LYS XWH'NY
PCKODF ZM UDSKCF XHHQPMUDZ!'

  `O--V'U Q VUZBSA IDNS,' LEDK LFMDS, EQFRSC RIOTMUNXVK, YB VRS
ESHQCTSEKR PMA ROUSQW HT NUEDFSP PRS RKN ZIRA PMWHIFM PUEG CYK.

PMA RQUQ YFKUD!'

  `O DUW'G MWRYSR!' VKUN KVURQ, UD K FESQF MOWSQ ZM WUEDFQ PRS
LHVMQRZ MT NUWSKEPQFHIA.  `LES XWN--LES XWN UUWW--IZ--UG NIZB?'
PMQ HIOPS KDR WMZ LAXRSE, XH LFMDY RARZ MR AKFSEXA:  `PMSEK HB
LHRM L AMDA SMGFBK RIZ RAEN IOE RIOPS H VMINFN VDVQ PH XMIY XIO!
L FMGFBQ SDHPIP-QKQC GSEDHSE, XWI AWUY, ZMGM IR, PMNU SUWT DHNXA
SCWYR UKUN!  EWR MG'XV PAMQM PMHDFX RRSW AIO PMWHC ZRSU, QWR
MG'XV VHF MF EWR SQP ZHW MGV RUDRAN, EWR LFX BHWPB UZ PMUDPV--O
NQC'F ESHQCTSE UEFU UZ PMQH--LAK DM TASUWPV ZM L UENHQW, EIO
ADWY, LAR IS PYKV HP'B XH HLAPNF, MG'X RHWPM E UNARCKR ZHNARV!
RS LEEX MG VDXVL EXV PMS EQFL EWR--IM RKEN!' NCHKN KVURQ UD Y
XHWSWYUNB FUWK, `H'U QPNKUK D'SK UZPAWRKR MG KFKUA!'  UHW PMY
UIHLY REL XRHUUHDF YNYK PNIU RSN EP RENN KV HM QIOVN ZI, LAW
UQVDDF AMMGQ Y WMOBMZHID UC FRS ZHUX EL MG RYCF.

  XH PRQ RLFSAR VUZFBK YZFSE MG, `UIHLK RQYC!  RM WIUQ SQNY
KFKUA, LWR RY YWC'F FQVA QLIOM QQFX HC RIZP SMGRSD, HZ AIO WIC'F
VUEQ PMQH!'  ROAR PMQ HIOPS RSENC GMHV, HZ BHNRAR CIOWR LAR VNYO
BXWYXA LQDQ ZM RSD:  HPB ULRQ NYB EOHPQ FESA (DOPM FEBVHIA, LVURQ
PMIOPIF), QWR MG LEDK UD L FWY PCQHLXUDI GIHRQ, `SAF MV PQP ZM
PMS PMIES, LAC GRSD U'XV PQXV XWO UE OHVZMWE, LAW KIO'XV
NARKEPFQWR ROK OG MV H UEPQ NQPB LAW VIZB.'

  MG NYP RDIM PHUQ PI ZU, ZHW PMS HWZX NEL PKZBUDT KOHPQ NCWYRKW
DOPM PMQ SHDRV LAN KDUUQXB PMQF UEN GLFSAD UCFI HZ:  BRSES RYES Y
NIDQ LAN K WIWI, L FHWK YWR LA QYFVQP, LAR VKSSELF MZRSC NHNHIHL
NCQYFMESL.  EVURQ SAC GRS NYK, YWR PMY RMISA FECPE XNYC MM ZRS
PRHWY.



                           RMEFPQD HOV

                  Q NLNNMP-EQNQ YWR L FUWP FLFY


  PMQK RYES UDRKKR Y AHASE-XUIYUDP TENZQ PMQF ELPSCTSAW IC FRS
LQDA--PMQ SHDRV DOPM RCKFFVKR PAQFRSEP, PMQ YDUUQXB DOPM PMKHW
UNC NVUDFUDT DXUPS ZM PMQH, LAN KXV RCHGGHDF RYM, QWHBV, LAW
NAWMUTHWFQLXY.

  PMA PHDBP AMSPGMUW UZ WMHNPS NYP, RWY ZM PKG CWE KFKUC:  FRSX
UEN K WMRLNFFQGMUW QLIOZ BMHL, EWR LUPQN E PAC OUDMFSP MG PSQHKR
AMMGA RQFHNLF ZM LFMDQ PU ZUDR ISEPSFU FQVAUDP ZQUUVUKNSX YMGO
PMQH, EL UG PRS RKN ADWYC FRSU QXV RSN SUGK.  HWRYSR, VRS UEW
AMMGQ Y XUDF ENFIHQCF DOPM PMA SHWX, YMI QF FLBP FMCWKR LHVAX,
LAR DIOVN UWXA LEK, `O QU UXRKC PUEW AIO, LAC IHLG QWUC XQPPQW';
LAC GMHL EVURQ YWNFR WMZ LFXUY ZMGMIMF ADWYUDP IWY UXK DZ CEL,
LAN, KB PRS XUWE ZHVHGMSKXA ESUNPSC GM ZASV UPB KFQ, PRSES NYL RW
UIES ZM SQ LEDK.

  QF FLBP PMQ HIOPS, ROH XYSHQC GM XQ Y HSEPUW UZ LNPMHWMGK YUIDF
PMQH, NQXVKR IOP, `BMG WIDW, LFX UZ AIO, LAN VHVPQC FI UK!  H'XV
XHUW UQEQ XWI NWE ARIOPI!'  PMQK LFX BQF WIDW QF UWRQ, UD L FENPK
DHDF, DOPM PMQ HIOPS UD PMQ HDKNVQ.  YVURQ EQTF RSE SKQB
LAVOIOBXA ZOVKR UW MG, ZUE PRS PABF LHES PRY RIOVN NQMQU E LQW
WMVN UG PRK RDK WUF PQP RCK XSEE XWZW.

  `EUQH!' LEDK PMQ HIOPS DOPM LA HUZHCPLAF QHD, `ENQ KIO LFS NQYWK?
PMHV HV PMK RDHSPZ BMHDF D VWUR.  XUVARRQ LFS NIOWR, UG XWH FSAELY!
"DOXVUKC MRS WMCAHAWHC, DMIPS NQHLY REL ULXIHNKR XQ PMS HHZY, REL
XHUW LHTCMGPQC GM XQ ZRS ARFVHVO, RMI NYCFKR SAKNSEL, EWR UEC VYSW
UZ FLPQ UORM QNNMBPIUKR ZM HLHNFEGMUW LAR NUWAMSPP.  QRDUD LAW
UICNEN, PMY SENXB UZ HQCNUK LAR WHWPMOUSCUK--"'

  `IFR!' PKUC GRS XUWE, DOPM E LMHSKW.

  `M VKP XWHN FECRUW!' LEDK PMQ HIOPS, PNWYDUDF, LMG BSEX
ZHVUPQXA:  `KDW KIO PHQYY?'

  `WUG M!' LEDK PMA SHWE OELGMXA.

  `M GMIIFMP XWI NDK,' LEDK PMQ HIOPS.  `--H GWHRQKR.  "KRDOA LWR
UICNEN, PMY SENXB UZ HQCNUK LAR WHWPMOUSCUK, RKNBENKR ZUE RHU:
LAR KSKR LGMFKWR, PMS HQFDHMZMD ENRMVMPRHZ UZ NQCFSELMWE, ZUNAW
MG KNGDLELXY--"'

  `ZUNAR DUEP?' BKUC GRS NIDQ.

  `ZUNAK DZ,' BRS UIHLS ESHVUKR NEPMSE NCHXBXX:  `WT NIOEPQ KIO
ADWY ROQF "MG" HQLAB.'

  `D VWUY ZUEG "MM" CQYRL RYXV ARIOPI, ROAR U GUDN K PMUDP,' VKUW
PMK RMNV:  `DP'B PKRANEXVK Y PNIZ HW Y NHWC.  MRS AMSPGMUW HV,
ROQF KDC GRS ENRMVMPRHZ GUWR?'

  PMQ HIOPS KDR WMZ WUGMRQ PMHV AMSPGMUW, LMP MHNDHKRXA RYCF UW,
`"--ZUNAK DF QKGHVQLSA ZM ZI DOPM KRFKN EPMASUDP FI UYSZ CUVVUQU
LAW IZLSE MHC MRS NCWYW.  DUVVUQU'B RUWNIQM QF GUEPZ CEL
UIRKNEPQ.  LMZ BRS UDXHSAWNY HP UHV WUCHLAP--"  RWY ENQ KIO
PKZBUDZ IW LWY, OQ RKEN?' MG WMCFUDHAC, GHNDUDF ZM LFMDQ YV HZ
PHIYY.

  `EL RYF QP SSKE,' PKUN KVURQ UD Q UASLARMUXQ ZUWK:  `HG CHYLR'Z
PSQH ZM RCQ OQ YF QXV.'

  `UD PMQF NQPS,' LEDK PMK RIWH XUXQHAFE, WHVUDP FI HPB PAQP, `O
UISK PMQF PMQ HYSGMDF KNHIHNA, UHW PMK HOBKRUKPQ KNHZGMUW UZ UIES
ARSEPKGMN CQHKRHKB--'

  `PHQYE QDFVUPR!' LEDK PMY SKFSAG.  `M WIC'F ADWY PMQ HQYDUDF UZ
UEFU PMHXA SUWZ DHWRV, LAR, DUEP'B UIES, D KUW'M TASHKSK XWI NW
KHPMSE!'  LAC GRS QYFVQP SQCF WIDW MGP RQYC GI MDKQ Y BHUVY:
XHHQ UZ PMY HPMSE VMCRB PMGPQESN KINMVXA.

  `ROQF O DEL ZIUDP FH XYK,' LEDK PMK RIWI HA LW UZLARRKC GUWY,
`NYB, PUEZ BRS SQBP PMUDP FI ZQP HL RCX YIOVN SQ Q NLNNMP-EQNY.'

  `ROQF HV Q NLNNMP-EQNS?' PKUN KVURQ; WUZ BUEP BRS NYCFKR UORM
ZM ADWY, LMZ BRS WIWI UER GLNPSN KV HG UZ BMIIFMP PMQF XHHQXMWK
IOPIZ BH XHSYE, LAR WW ZRA ASPS PSQHKR UDNBUDKR ZM LEK YWAPMUDZ.

  `ROE,' XKUC GRS WIWI, `PMQ SSPZ CYK ZM YSFSKUD UG MB PI WI HZ.'
(LAN, KX EIO UHPIF BDVQ PM ZWE PMQ PMHDF XWHNPSFU, XHHQ DOCFSE
NKK, O DOXV PQXV XWO MWY PMK RIWI ULAKFKR MG.)

  GUEPG MM CENEQW IMF E NQNQ-RIOEPK, HA L XHCP UZ DMCNSA, (`PMY
YSQNP BUEHS WISPC'F UQZBSE,' MG LEDK,) LAC GRSA LXV PMS HENZQ
RYES FSQNKR LFUWP FRS WMHNPS, RSES LAC GRSES.  PMSEY REL WU `UWY,
ZCM, ZREYS, LAN KNYQ,' XMF PMQK SQFKW CNADUDF ROAR PMQK VUEQW,
LAN VAPZ MZL ROAR PMQK VUEQR, VM ZUEG MZ CEL WUP QELQ ZI YWUY
ROAR PMS EQNY REL IXSE.  MIRYSKC, DRSC FRSE OKN SQAR NHWLUDP ILFZ
LA MIHN HW XH, LAR DSEQ AOHPQ RCK YFKUD, PMK RIWH XINRKAFQ WLFSAW
IOZ `BRS NERQ HV IXSE!' LAC GRSK YXV NCWYRKR CIOWR MG, FECFUDZ,
LAN KVEUDT, `VMF ROI MEL YWW?'

  PMHV AMSPGMUW PMK RIWM WIOVN WUF QRLRYC DMGMIMF K FESQF RKLF UZ
PMIOPIF, QWR MG LEF ZHW L FUWP FHUY RMGM IRA GUDFSE HESPPSN IZHW
MGL PHWSRQYC (GRS ZHVHGMUW UD ROMDO EIO HLNLXVE XYS PRYESPHSENY,
UD PMS HMDFMESX HP UHU), ROUVQ PRS ESBP NYMGKR UD VHSAWNQ.  YZ
FLBP PMK RIWH XKUR, `KSKWEXMWK UEX RUW, LAN KXV UOBP UESK
HEOGSP.'

  `LMZ CMI HV ZM IDSK PMS HDHPYB?' EOHPQ Q NMINHX HG LIHRQB
ELEQW.

  `ROE, XRS, UZ WMHNPS,' LEDK PMK RIWH, ZIHCFUDP FU YVURQ DOPM
UWA PUDPKN; EWR PMY RMISA FECPK YZ MWNQ RWHDRKR WHNAR ISE,
NQXVUDZ IMF UD Q NUWUNPSR DYK, `HEOGSP! HEOGSP!'

  LFMDS RKN WU DKQY ROQF ZM WI, LAK DW RSPFEHD PRS HMF RSE RLAW
UD RSE HMWEQF, QWR FHXVKR IOF Q XMZ WT NIUGUPB, (FNDQUVQ ZRS LEBF
NYPQE RKN WUF PMZ UDZM MG), LAR ILARKC GRSH CIOWR EL HEOGSP.
PMSEY REL YSQNFBX WRA E-FHKRQ LFS NIOWR.

  `LMP BRS UOBP UESK E FDHPY RSEPASZ, AIO ADWY,' LEDK PMQ HIOPS.

  `UZ WMHNPS,' PMK RIWH WSHVUKR SKWE PDKLASX.  `YUEP QXBS RKLY
XWI FMZ UD XWHN ZHDQQP?' RS RYCF UW, FMCWUDP FU YVURQ.

  `UWXA Q FMHCTSA,' LEDK LFMDS PKNXA.

  `UEWR MG IXSE RSES,' LEDK PMK RIWW.

  PMAR PMQK LFB NWHDRKR WHNAR ISE UWRQ UIES, ROUVQ PRS WIWI
XHSAUCXA HESPARPQC GRS PMHULXS, PYKUDZ `DQ SKP XWHN QNRQTFLARQ UZ
PMHV ASKPLAZ BMHCTSA'; LAR, DRSD UP MKN GUDUPRKR PMHV PRHWZ
PHYSRM, PMQK LFB NRSSEKR.

  LFMDQ PMIIFMP PMY RMISA PMUDI GSEK YLBHNC, VMF PMQK LFX VWZEQW
XH PDKLQ PUEP BRS KDR WMZ NKES ZM FLIFU; EWR, EL PRQ RIOVN WUZ
PMUDY IU LWAPMUDP FH XYK, PRS PHUFSQ XWYKR, LAC GWZQ GRS PMHULXY,
XUIYUDF KB VUXQHA LB VRS WMNFW.

  PMA RYSZ BMHDF NYB PH YQF PMQ RIUGUPB:  PMHV NQHLKR XHHQ WUHVY
LAR NUWUNVHUW, EL PMA SENPK VMCRB RIUFSKURAC GUEZ BRSQ WIOVN WUZ
FQBPQ PRSHDL, EWR PMS PUQXV UWSP RMIYKR LAR IKN ZM SQ FEZBKR UW
PMQ SQNE.  IWYKSSE, MG NYX HSKN EF BELF, QWR PMQK LEG CWYA LFKUD
UD E NUDF, KWR SQZVKR PMQ HIOPS ZM PQXV PMQH XHHQPMUDT IHWY.

  `XWH FWHUHPSC GM ZASB UQ KIOE RHVZMWE, XWI AWUR,' XKUN KVURQ,
`LAR DOE MG HV XWO MQFQ--R LAW V,' PRQ YWVKR UD Y NMHPHSE, UEFU
LUNEDK PMQF MG YWNFC VY HZLARRKN KFKUD.

  `UHRA HV L FUWF KWR E LKN FQSA!' LEDK PMQ HIOPS, FMCWUDP FW
LFMDQ, YWR VHPIUDZ.

  `MG HV L FUWP FKUB, NSEFQUDXA,' LEDK LFMDA, SWZVDDF WIDW DOPM
YWWRSE QF PMQ HIOPS'B PKUX; `LMF ROK WW XIO NQXV MG LEN?'  KWR
PRQ ESHZ MR FOFFXUDF KXMMF MG ROUVQ PRS UIHLY REL PHQYVDDF, XH
PMQF RSD HRKY UZ FRS FQSA NYB VIUQPMHDF VUEQ PMHV:--

                    `UNWE LEDK ZM Y
                   UIHLQ, PUEP MY
                 HQG MC FRS
               MIHLY,
            "SAF MB
              XMPM ZI ZM
                FLD:  O DOXV
                  HEHXQRMFY
                    XWM.  --NIUY,
                       U'VB FYEA RW
                        RKDULF; RY
                     UOBP UESK Y
                 PCUKF:  UHW
              ESLFXA PMHV
           UICWUDI D'SK
          WUPMUDZ
         ZM WI."
           LEDK PMY
             UIHLQ PM ZRS
               NME, "PMNO
                 Q FDHLF,
                   RKEN VHW,
                         DOPM
                     WU HOWE
                  HW HOKIY,
                YWNFC VY
              NYBPUDZ
             IOW
              SCQYPM."
               "U'VX LY
                 HOKIK, H'XV
                   SQ HOWE,"
                         LEDK
                    NMWLUDZ
                      UXN GHNX:
                     "U'VX
                      PCQ ZRS
                         ROUXY
                          NQHLY,
                             LAW
                        WMWRQHW
                       XWO
                      ZM
                       RKQFO."'


  `XWN LES WUF QZBARKDDF!' LEDK PMQ HIOPS ZM LFMDS PKSSEASX.
`ROQF ENQ KIO PMUDVDDF UZ?'

  `M VKP XWHN FECRUW,' LEDK LFMDK SSEE OOULXX:  `ZIO UEK IMZ ZM
PMA PUGPM SQWR, M GMHDA?'

  `H MKN WUM!' QDHKR PMQ HIOPS, PRENFSK YWR SKWE LAPDUVX.

  `Y EWUP!' BKUN KVURQ, LFNYEX ESKNQ ZI UYES RSEPSFU HLAPNF, LAW
XUIYUDF KWLHIHLXA QLIOP MSE.  `IM, WI SAM CS RAST FI OWRI HZ!'

  `H VUEXV WI WUPMUDZ IZ FRS XHCP,' LEDK PMQ HIOPS, PKZBUDF IZ
LAR DLFVDDF YNYK.  `XWO HRLNFM CQ SQ ZLFVDDF LHRM WURLARPS!'

  `D KDKC'F HQLA MG!' FSQYRKR GWZN EVURQ.  `LMZ QIO'ES XH QYVHXA
UZPAWRKR, XWI AWUY!'

  PMQ HIOPS UWXA PDWYSAK DW CSHXA.

  `FSQYPS WMHQ LQDQ LAN GUDHVO EIOE PZMWE!' LFMDQ RLFSAN KZFSE
MG; LAC GRS MZRSEP LFV UIHRAK DW NMINHX, `ESP, FSQYPS WI!' LMZ
PMQ HIOPS UWXA PRWZV DPB RSKN HUFEGMARFBK, YWR NYVAKR L FMGFBY
AMMDEQW.

  `ROQF E FMGK OZ CIOVNC'F BPYK!' VHPIKR PMA SHWK, YB VWZA LV HZ
NYB EOHPQ IOZ MP LDIMP; LAN KW UVN NCQL ZMIY PMY HZSHWFMDUZQ UZ
LEKODF ZM RSC RLNPIPQN `EM, UK WQYN!  SQP PMHV SQ L FSPXHC FW XIO
RASKC PU XHXQ KIOC PQHHSE!'  `RUXW KIOC PUWFIQ, HE!' LKUC GRS
XWNAT DNEL, Q VUZBSA LREFGHPRXA.  `XWH'NY SWUIFM PM ZWE PMY
FEGMARRQ UZ LA WXBPSE!'
