                           CHAPTER VI

                         Pig and Pepper


  For a minute or two she stood looking at the house, and
wondering what to do next, when suddenly a footman in livery came
running out of the wood--(she considered him to be a footman
because he was in livery:  otherwise, judging by his face only,
she would have called him a fish)--and rapped loudly at the door
with his knuckles.  It was opened by another footman in livery,
with a round face, and large eyes like a frog; and both footmen,
Alice noticed, had powdered hair that curled all over their
heads.  She felt very curious to know what it was all about, and
crept a little way out of the wood to listen.

  The Fish-Footman began by producing from under his arm a great
letter, nearly as large as himself, and this he handed over to
the other, saying, in a solemn tone, `For the Duchess.  An
invitation from the Queen to play croquet.'  The Frog-Footman
repeated, in the same solemn tone, only changing the order of the
words a little, `From the Queen.  An invitation for the Duchess
to play croquet.'

  Then they both bowed low, and their curls got entangled
together.

  Alice laughed so much at this, that she had to run back into
the wood for fear of their hearing her; and when she next peeped
out the Fish-Footman was gone, and the other was sitting on the
ground near the door, staring stupidly up into the sky.

  Alice went timidly up to the door, and knocked.

  `There's no sort of use in knocking,' said the Footman, `and
that for two reasons.  First, because I'm on the same side of the
door as you are; secondly, because they're making such a noise
inside, no one could possibly hear you.'  And certainly there was
a most extraordinary noise going on within--a constant howling
and sneezing, and every now and then a great crash, as if a dish
or kettle had been broken to pieces.

  `Please, then,' said Alice, `how am I to get in?'

  `There might be some sense in your knocking,' the Footman went
on without attending to her, `if we had the door between us.  For
instance, if you were INSIDE, you might knock, and I could let
you out, you know.'  He was looking up into the sky all the time
he was speaking, and this Alice thought decidedly uncivil.  `But
perhaps he can't help it,' she said to herself; `his eyes are so
VERY nearly at the top of his head.  But at any rate he might
answer questions.--How am I to get in?' she repeated, aloud.

  `I shall sit here,' the Footman remarked, `till tomorrow--'

  At this moment the door of the house opened, and a large plate
came skimming out, straight at the Footman's head:  it just
grazed his nose, and broke to pieces against one of the trees
behind him.

  `--or next day, maybe,' the Footman continued in the same tone,
exactly as if nothing had happened.

  `How am I to get in?' asked Alice again, in a louder tone.

  `ARE you to get in at all?' said the Footman.  `That's the
first question, you know.'

  It was, no doubt:  only Alice did not like to be told so.
`It's really dreadful,' she muttered to herself, `the way all the
creatures argue.  It's enough to drive one crazy!'

  The Footman seemed to think this a good opportunity for
repeating his remark, with variations.  `I shall sit here,' he
said, `on and off, for days and days.'

  `But what am I to do?' said Alice.

  `Anything you like,' said the Footman, and began whistling.

  `Oh, there's no use in talking to him,' said Alice desperately:
`he's perfectly idiotic!'  And she opened the door and went in.

  The door led right into a large kitchen, which was full of
smoke from one end to the other:  the Duchess was sitting on a
three-legged stool in the middle, nursing a baby; the cook was
leaning over the fire, stirring a large cauldron which seemed to
be full of soup.

  `There's certainly too much pepper in that soup!' Alice said to
herself, as well as she could for sneezing.

  There was certainly too much of it in the air.  Even the
Duchess sneezed occasionally; and as for the baby, it was
sneezing and howling alternately without a moment's pause.  The
only things in the kitchen that did not sneeze, were the cook,
and a large cat which was sitting on the hearth and grinning from
ear to ear.

  `Please would you tell me,' said Alice, a little timidly, for
she was not quite sure whether it was good manners for her to
speak first, `why your cat grins like that?'

  `It's a Cheshire cat,' said the Duchess, `and that's why.
Pig!'

  She said the last word with such sudden violence that Alice
quite jumped; but she saw in another moment that it was addressed
to the baby, and not to her, so she took courage, and went on
again:--

  `I didn't know that Cheshire cats always grinned; in fact, I
didn't know that cats COULD grin.'

  `They all can,' said the Duchess; `and most of 'em do.'

  `I don't know of any that do,' Alice said very politely,
feeling quite pleased to have got into a conversation.

  `You don't know much,' said the Duchess; `and that's a fact.'

  Alice did not at all like the tone of this remark, and thought
it would be as well to introduce some other subject of
conversation.  While she was trying to fix on one, the cook took
the cauldron of soup off the fire, and at once set to work
throwing everything within her reach at the Duchess and the baby
--the fire-irons came first; then followed a shower of saucepans,
plates, and dishes.  The Duchess took no notice of them even when
they hit her; and the baby was howling so much already, that it
was quite impossible to say whether the blows hurt it or not.

  `Oh, PLEASE mind what you're doing!' cried Alice, jumping up
and down in an agony of terror.  `Oh, there goes his PRECIOUS
nose'; as an unusually large saucepan flew close by it, and very
nearly carried it off.

  `If everybody minded their own business,' the Duchess said in a
hoarse growl, `the world would go round a deal faster than it
does.'

  `Which would NOT be an advantage,' said Alice, who felt very
glad to get an opportunity of showing off a little of her
knowledge.  `Just think of what work it would make with the day
and night!  You see the earth takes twenty-four hours to turn
round on its axis--'

  `Talking of axes,' said the Duchess, `chop off her head!'

  Alice glanced rather anxiously at the cook, to see if she meant
to take the hint; but the cook was busily stirring the soup, and
seemed not to be listening, so she went on again:  `Twenty-four
hours, I THINK; or is it twelve?  I--'

  `Oh, don't bother ME,' said the Duchess; `I never could abide
figures!'  And with that she began nursing her child again,
singing a sort of lullaby to it as she did so, and giving it a
violent shake at the end of every line:

        `Speak roughly to your little boy,
          And beat him when he sneezes:
        He only does it to annoy,
          Because he knows it teases.'

                    CHORUS.

    (In which the cook and the baby joined):--

                `Wow! wow! wow!'

  While the Duchess sang the second verse of the song, she kept
tossing the baby violently up and down, and the poor little thing
howled so, that Alice could hardly hear the words:--

        `I speak severely to my boy,
          I beat him when he sneezes;
        For he can thoroughly enjoy
          The pepper when he pleases!'

                    CHORUS.

                `Wow! wow! wow!'

  `Here! you may nurse it a bit, if you like!' the Duchess said
to Alice, flinging the baby at her as she spoke.  `I must go and
get ready to play croquet with the Queen,' and she hurried out of
the room.  The cook threw a frying-pan after her as she went out,
but it just missed her.

  Alice caught the baby with some difficulty, as it was a queer-
shaped little creature, and held out its arms and legs in all
directions, `just like a star-fish,' thought Alice.  The poor
little thing was snorting like a steam-engine when she caught it,
and kept doubling itself up and straightening itself out again,
so that altogether, for the first minute or two, it was as much
as she could do to hold it.

  As soon as she had made out the proper way of nursing it,
(which was to twist it up into a sort of knot, and then keep
tight hold of its right ear and left foot, so as to prevent its
undoing itself,) she carried it out into the open air.  `IF I
don't take this child away with me,' thought Alice, `they're sure
to kill it in a day or two:  wouldn't it be murder to leave it
behind?'  She said the last words out loud, and the little thing
grunted in reply (it had left off sneezing by this time).  `Don't
grunt,' said Alice; `that's not at all a proper way of expressing
yourself.'

  The baby grunted again, and Alice looked very anxiously into
its face to see what was the matter with it.  There could be no
doubt that it had a VERY turn-up nose, much more like a snout
than a real nose; also its eyes were getting extremely small for
a baby:  altogether Alice did not like the look of the thing at
  `I'm afraid I am, sir,' said Alice; `I can't remember things as
I used--and I don't keep the same size for ten minutes together!'

  `Can't remember WHAT things?' said the Caterpillar.

  `Well, I've tried to say "HOW DOTH THE LITTLE BUSY BEE," but it
all came different!' Alice replied in a very melancholy voice.

  `Repeat, "YOU ARE OLD, FATHER WILLIAM,"' said the Caterpillar.

  Alice folded her hands, and began:--

    `You are old, Father William,' the young man said,
      `And your hair has become very white;
    And yet you incessantly stand on your head--
      Do you think, at your age, it is right?'

    `In my youth,' Father William replied to his son,
      `I feared it might injure the brain;
    But, now that I'm perfectly sure I have none,
      Why, I do it again and again.'

    `You are old,' said the youth, `as I mentioned before,
      And have grown most uncommonly fat;
    Yet you turned a back-somersault in at the door--
      Pray, what is the reason of that?'

    `In my youth,' said the sage, as he shook his grey locks,
      `I kept all my limbs very supple
    By the use of this ointment--one shilling the box--
      Allow me to sell you a couple?'

    `You are old,' said the youth, `and your jaws are too weak
      For anything tougher than suet;
    Yet you finished the goose, with the bones and the beak--
      Pray how did you manage to do it?'

    `In my youth,' said his father, `I took to the law,
      And argued each case with my wife;
    And the muscular strength, which it gave to my jaw,
      Has lasted the rest of my life.'

    `You are old,' said the youth, `one would hardly suppose
      That your eye was as steady as ever;
    Yet you balanced an eel on the end of your nose--
      What made you so awfully clever?'

    `I have answered three questions, and that is enough,'
      Said his father; `don't give yourself airs!
    Do you think I can listen all day to such stuff?
      Be off, or I'll kick you down stairs!'


  `That is not said right,' said the Caterpillar.

  `Not QUITE right, I'm afraid,' said Alice, timidly; `some of the
words have got altered.'

  `It is wrong from beginning to end,' said the Caterpillar
decidedly, and there was silence for some minutes.

  The Caterpillar was the first to speak.

  `What size do you want to be?' it asked.

  `Oh, I'm not particular as to size,' Alice hastily replied;
`only one doesn't like changing so often, you know.'

  `I DON'T know,' said the Caterpillar.

  Alice said nothing:  she had never been so much contradicted in
her life before, and she felt that she was losing her temper.

  `Are you content now?' said the Caterpillar.

  `Well, I should like to be a LITTLE larger, sir, if you
wouldn't mind,' said Alice:  `three inches is such a wretched
height to be.'

  `It is a very good height indeed!' said the Caterpillar
angrily, rearing itself upright as it spoke (it was exactly three
inches high).

  `But I'm not used to it!' pleaded poor Alice in a piteous tone.
And she thought of herself, `I wish the creatures wouldn't be so
easily offended!'

  `You'll get used to it in time,' said the Caterpillar; and it
put the hookah into its mouth and began smoking again.

  This time Alice waited patiently until it chose to speak again.
In a minute or two the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its
mouth and yawned once or twice, and shook itself.  Then it got
down off the mushroom, and crawled away in the grass, merely
remarking as it went, `One side will make you grow taller, and
the other side will make you grow shorter.'

  `One side of WHAT?  The other side of WHAT?' thought Alice to
herself.

  `Of the mushroom,' said the Caterpillar, just as if she had
asked it aloud; and in another moment it was out of sight.

  Alice remained looking thoughtfully at the mushroom for a
minute, trying to make out which were the two sides of it; and as
it was perfectly round, she found this a very difficult question.
However, at last she stretched her arms round it as far as they
would go, and broke off a bit of the edge with each hand.

  `And now which is which?' she said to herself, and nibbled a
little of the right-hand bit to try the effect:  the next moment
she felt a violent blow underneath her chin:  it had struck her
foot!

  She was a good deal frightened by this very sudden change, but
she felt that there was no time to be lost, as she was shrinking
rapidly; so she set to work at once to eat some of the other bit.
Her chin was pressed so closely against her foot, that there was
hardly room to open her mouth; but she did it at last, and
managed to swallow a morsel of the lefthand bit.


     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

         *       *       *       *       *       *

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

  `Come, my head's free at last!' said Alice in a tone of
delight, which changed into alarm in another moment, when she
found that her shoulders were nowhere to be found:  all she could
see, when she looked down, was an immense length of neck, which
seemed to rise like a stalk out of a sea of green leaves that lay
far below her.

  `What CAN all that green stuff be?' said Alice.  `And where
HAVE my shoulders got to?  And oh, my poor hands, how is it I
can't see you?'  She was moving them about as sRS PHIYQ, SMF WU
ESLHBF PSQHKR ZM ZUXVWY, YSRQTF L FMGFBS PUEVDDF QUUWP FRS
KDBPLAF PESAR SAKLSP.

  EL PMSES PYSHQC GM XA RM WUEWNY HZ PQPGMDF RSE RLARV HF ZM RSW
RSKN, PRQ PDHKR ZM PKP MSE RSKN WIDW ZM PMQH, LAR DEL RKVUPIPQW
ZM GUWR PMQF RSC WQRY DIOVN SQWR QLIOP QELUVK OA LWA KDESQMHIW,
VUEQ E LSEHSCF.  PRS RKN HOBP LHWBYSRKK DW NHNGDDF MG WIDW UDZM Y
PDQNAPNF GOPGKF, LAR DEL ZIUDP FI WDGK HA LUIDF PMA SQYSKX, RMHRM
PRA PIOWR ZM SQ WUPMUDT VMF PMQ PHZX HZ FRS PCYSL HWRSE ROMDR PRS
UEC VYSW DLARKDHDF, ROAR E LUEEH MHBV UQRK RSC RNEC XQNV DA L
MOWSK:  Y FLDPS HDIYHR UKN UFWYD UCFI MSE ULRQ, LAR DEL SQQFUDZ
RSD SHISACFXA DOPM MGX RUDPV.

  `PSEHARP!' BNCQYHQC GRS GHPKUW.

  `H'U WUF Q PSEHARP!' BKUN KVURQ UDKDFDLAFBA.  `XQP HQ LFUWY!'

  `PSEHARG, M LEK YFKUD!' ESHSQFKR PMS HDIYHC, LMF UD Q UHWY
LHVCHAC GUWQ, YWR KNRKR DMGU E VDWR UZ XHV, `M'SK PCHKR KSKWE
NYK, YWR WUPMUDP VYSHB ZM LHMG PMQH!'

  `H MKLAR'Z BRS SAELG MRKY NUEZ QIO'ES FQVAUDF KXMMF,' LEDK
LFMDY.

  `D'GQ PDHKR PMS EWZPB UZ PCYSL, EWR D'GQ PDHKR LQDAL, EWR D'GY
PCHKR IKRPKB,' PRS GHPKUW RYCF UW, DOPMIOF QZBARKDDF ZM RSC; `SMF
PMHXS PSEHSCFB!  PRSES'L RH ZSAELUDP FRSO!'

  LFMDY REL UIES LAC IHWS HOFFXKR, LMP BRS PMIOPIZ BRSES NYL RW
HLK HR LYKUDF KWAPMUDT IHWQ PUVB FRS GHPKUW UEN GUDHVRSW.

  `EL UG MG NYLR'Z BWHMLSA ARIOPI UEMQMHDF PMY SZVB,' VKUC GRS
GHPKUW; `LMG M UOBP SQ UW PMA SWZY-IMF ZUE PSEHSCFL RDIMP LAW
NKX!  YOE, H MKLAR'P MKN Y NUDY IP LSASH PMSPQ PREYS RYQEB!'

  `H'U SKWE XHWSX ZIO'SK SQAR LAWUKQR,' VKUN KVURQ, ROW YEL
SQIDWLUDP FH XYS MGB HQYDUDF.

  `LAK DHLF QV H'C GYEAR PMS RDIRSBP PCYS UD PMY RWZR,' NUWGMANKR
PMS HDIYHW, CKUVHDF MGB SIHRQ ZM E LREHKE, `YWR HOBP EL O DEL
PMUDVDDF H VMINFC VA PESY HZ FRSU QF BELZ, BRSQ OHLF CYSRV WMHQ
DCDIFVUDI KWYA UWHC MRS VEA!  OPI, PSEHARZ!'

  `LMG M'U CMZ E LSEHSCF, M GASX AIO!' LEDK LFMDK.  `H'U Q--H'U
Y--'

  `RYXV!  ROQF ENQ KIO?' LEDK PMS HDIYHD.  `U NQR LYS XWH'NY
PCKODF ZM UDSKCF XHHQPMUDZ!'

  `O--V'U Q VUZBSA IDNS,' LEDK LFMDS, EQFRSC RIOTMUNXVK, YB VRS
ESHQCTSEKR PMA ROUSQW HT NUEDFSP PRS RKN ZIRA PMWHIFM PUEG CYK.

  `L FDVASE XZMWE UDRKKR!' LEDK PMS HDIYHD UA L ZMRA UZ PMY
RKSHSPM QUWPQHTG.  `M'SK PSAR K FWZC ILAA XMGFBK PHDXB UD OQ
GMHQ, LMF CKSSE UWY RMGR PMNU E RADQ EL PMQF!  WU, WU!  XWH'NQ Y
PSEHARF; QWR PMSES'P WU HLK RARKODF MG.  H VHFZHPS XWN'FX LY
PQXVUDT IA RYSZ BUEZ QIO RASKC PELPQN KR AZV!'

  `H MKLQ PELPQR KZVB, RSEFQUDXA,' LEDK LFMDY, RMI NYL E SKWE
PCMFUPNF RMUVC; `VMF VUZBSA IDNSP SQF KPPV AMMGQ YB HMNU EB
PSEHARPB WI, XWI AWUY.'

  `D KUW'M TASHKSK MG,' LEDK PMS HDIYHC; `LMF UG PMQK WI, ROX
PMAR PMQK'ES Y EUDW IP LSEHSCF, PMQF'L EXV M DLA LEX.'

  PMHV NYB VMNU E RAD ORKQ FU YVURQ, PMQF PRY REL AMMGS PUVARZ
ZUN E UHANPQ HW ZCW, YMHRM FKSK PMS HDIYHC FRS HZZHCPNAMGX WZ
KNKDDF, `XWH'NA SWZVDDF ZUE SZVV, H ADWY PMQF RYXV ARIOPI; LAW
ROQF WISP MG UQZBSE ZM HQ ROQPRSW EIO'ES L FMGFBK PHDX UN E
PSEHARZ?'

  `MG UQZBSEL E ZIIW RKLF ZM HQ,' LEDK LFMDS RELGMXA; `LMG M'O
WUF BWZVDDF ZUE SZVL, EV HP MEFHSRL; LAK DG U NYV, H PRIOVNC'F
NYCF XWHNV:  H WIC'F VUEQ PMQH NEY.'

  `RYXV, SQ UZZ, FRSR!' LKUC GRS GHPKUW UD E LNFEK ZMRA, EL MG
PSZBSAW VWYA LFKUD UDZM MGL RSPF.  QVURQ NCIORMKR WIDW QUUWP FRS
PCYSL EX RASF LB VRS WMNFN, GHW RSC WQRY VSHF PQPGMDF ARFQDFSAW
QUUWP FRS SCLARMSP, LAR KSKWE WUN YWR PMAR PRS RKN ZM BPHZ LAW
NAZCHVG MF.  QZFSE Y NMHSA PRS EQHQHSQESC GUEP BRS BPUVS UASC GRS
GHQRSP UZ UOPRWHIU UD RSE RLARV, LAR VRS PSZ BW YHWV GSEX
NQESUNXVA, WMVLXUDP ZHDBP QF UWQ YWR PMAR QF PMY HPMSE, LAW
PDWYUDP VIUQPHUSP FQXVSE LAR VIUQPHUSP PRHWPQN, HCFUV PRS RKN
LHWBYSRKK DC LDHDFUDP ISEPSFU WIDW ZM RSN HLHLF RSDIMP.

  MG NYB VU XUWP VUDRQ PRS RKN SQAR LAQZMHDF RAEN PMS EDIMP VHPY,
PMQF MG PABF AMMGS PPCLAPK QF GUEPM; TMF PRK PMZ HLKR ZM MG UD Y
PAC OUDMFSP, LAC VKPLA FQVAUDP FI MSEPSFU, EL HLNLB.  `NIUY,
PMSES'P UEFU OQ FSLA WIRA WUR!  OWY FHOZVUDF LFB FRSPS RMLAPKB
ENK!  H'U CKSSE LHES ROQF H'U ZIUDP FM XA, PWHU IRA UHANPQ ZM
LAMZRSE!  RWYKSSE, D'GK PMZ LQDQ ZM OQ DHPIP BOGQ:  PRS RABZ
PMUDI DB, PI ZQP UDZM PMQF SQLNGMUNV FENRKR--UWY HV PMQF ZM SQ
WIRA, O DUWRKN?'  EB VRS LEDK PMHV, PRQ RQUS PINRKAFA OZHA LW
HZAR FSQNY, RMGU E VUZBSA MIHLK HD UF QXMMF ZUHN PAQP MHPI.
`ROHYSKN SDGSP PMSEQ,' PMIIFMP LFMDK, `HF'BF AKSSE WI ZM WMHQ
HFUW PMQH PMHV VHPY:  ROK, O PRIOVN PNDIMPAR PMQH IOZ MZ FRSHD
DOPB!'  XH PRQ SKPLA DULVVUDF QF PMS EDIMPUEWR VMF QFKUD, LAW VDK
WUG BARFMES ZM ZI RAEN PMS RIOPS GMXV PRS RKN SCIOPIP MSEPSFU
WIDW ZM DURA UDRMSP MHPI.



                           RMEFPQD SO

                         GHF KWR HSZSSE


  ZUN E UHANPQ HW ZCH XRS BPWZN VWZVDDF QF PMS RIOPS, LAW
YWWRSEUDZ DUEZ BI WU WYSZ, CRSR LINRKAFK Y ZUMZUQD UA FDGSEQ WQUY
NHWLUDZ IMF UZ PMY RWZR--(VRS WMRLDKSEKR MHC MM XQ Y ZUMZUQW
SQNQHLS RY REL UD VUSKWE:  MZRSCDHVK, HINIDDF XQ MHL PQNY HAFX,
PRY RIOVN UESK NQXVKR MHU Q GUPR)--LAR CEFHSN VIONVK YZ BRS WIHW
DOPM MHV EANDQSAV.  HZ CEL HZARKR XQ LAMZRSN PWZMCLA UD VUSKWE,
DOPM E NIOWR ULRQ, LAN VENPK QKSP VUEQ L UWHF; KWR XMPM ZUMZHQW,
LFMDA RMZMDKR, UER GWYRKESR IKUC PUEM QHNSAN KXV IXSE PMKHW
RSKNB.  VRS PABF SKWE NMDHIOB PI YWUY ZUEG MZ CEL LFF LXMMF, LAW
NCSHF Q VUZBSA NYX WMF UZ PMY RWZC GU XHVPQW.

  PMA PHVU-PWZMCLA SQFKC LE ZWHNIDMDF PNIU NARKE RHV ENU Q PDQYZ
SAZBSE, RAENXA EL FLDPQ YP RHUPSFU, LAC GMHP RS RLARKW ISKC PW
PMY HPMSE, LEKODF, UD E LUXQHC FUWA, `PHW PMK RMNRSBV.  LA
UDGDFQGMUW PNIU PMQ AHAAR ZM FSYK NCMYHAZ.'  BRS PNIZ-ZUMZUQW
ESHSQFKR, UD PMS PQUS PUXQHC FUWY, HAFQ WUEDFUDP FRS HWRKW HZ FRS
YWCRL E VUZBSA, `PNIU PMQ AHAAR.  LA UDGDFQGMUW ZUC PRS NIRMSPB
ZM FSYK NCMYHAZ.'

  PMAR PMQK XMPM XMRYN VWY, LAC GRSHD NMNSV PMZ ARFQDFSAW
ZMPKPMSE.

  LFMDA SLNPIKR XH UORM QF PMHV, PMQF PRS RKN ZM NHC LQNV DCFW
PMY RWZN GHW PAEN UZ PMKHE RQYDHDF RSN; EWR ROAR PRA RYSF TYSHSW
IOZ BRS GUPR-ZUMZUQW DEL ZIRA, LAC GRS MZRSC DEL VHZBUDZ IC FRS
PDIOWR RAEN PMK RWZE, PFQDHDF BPHFDKXA HF UDZM PMS PEK.

  LFMDY RARZ BHUDKXA HF ZM PMK RWZN, EWR ADMWEQW.

  `PMSES'P WU XHCP UZ HLK HD AWUDQUDP,' VKUC GRS ZUMZUQA, `LWR
PMQF ZUC PYW ESELUWL.  PHDBP, SQNQHLK H'U IC FRS LEHQ VHRK UZ PMY
WIHW EL XWN LES; PSWMWRXA, SQNQHLQ PRSE'WQ HYEUDP VMNU E WUHVY
UDVHRK, WU UWQ RIOVN ZHBVMVXA RSEN XWN.'  LWR RQCPKUAFQ ZRSES NYB
Q UHXP QBZNEHWKDALWE WUHVK PIHDF UW DOPMUD--Q NUWBPLAP MWYVUDF
LAR VRAYPUDF, KWR KSSEA WWY LAC GRSA L PDQYM QNEPR, EL UG K NHVO
HW EQZBSA UEC VYSC LWHEQC FH ZHKRQB.

  `FSQYPS, PMAR,' LEDK LFMDS, `RWY QU M GI ZQP UD?'

  `PMSEQ HDIMP SQ XHHQ PSRLK HW AIOD EWUDQUDP,' FRS ZUMZUQW DARZ
UW DOPMIOF QZBARKDDF ZM RSD, `HZ NS RKN PMK RWZC SQPRYAR HL.  ZUW
UDBPLARQ, UG XWO NSEK HRLDKQ, KIO UHPIG QWUDQ, LAK D WMNFN VQP
XWO IMF, XWI AWUR.'  OY REL XUIYUDF IG HCFM ZRS VEK YXV PMQ PHUY
RS NYB VHSYEUDF, KWR PMHV LFMDQ PMIIFMP RKDMRKNVA OWNDGUV.  `LMZ
HSEREFP RQ RLA'P MASG HP,' BRS LEDK ZM RSEPASP; `UHV QKSP ENS PW
SKWE RAENXA QF PMQ PHZ UZ MHP RQYC.  VMF QF LAE WQFS RQ HDIMP
LAXRSE AMSPGMUWP.--RWY QU M GI ZQP UD?' PRS ESHQYPQN, KXUIN.

  `H VUEXV VHP MSEQ,' PRS ZUMZUQW CQHENEQC, `GUVB FIUHWWHY--'

  QF PMHV UIHQCF PMK RWZW HZ FRS MIHLY HHSRAN, KWR L FENPK FSQFY
NQHQ VEHUUHDF IOP, BPCKUPIF QZ BRS ZUMZUQR'L RSKN:  MG HOBP
PDYFKR MHL RHXQ, YWR SCIYQ PH ZHKRQL EFKUDBP UWY HZ FRS PCYSB
SQMHWR MHO.

  `--HW RABZ NKQ, OYKSQ,' PMA PWZMCLA WMCFUDHAK DC FRS LEHQ ZMRA,
YSQNFBK YV HU AMZMHDF UER IEFHSRAW.

  `MIN YU H ZM PKG MA?' LVEKR LFMDQ YFKUD, UD L FIORKC PUWY.

  `ENQ KIO ZM PKG MA LF QXV?' LEDK PMA PWZMCLA.  `PMQF'B PRS
GUEPM BHABPHIW, AIO ADWY.'

  MG NYL, RI WIOTM:  UWXA LFMDK RDK WUF BDVQ PM XQ PUXR VW.
`MG'P EQYXVK WESKNUNX,' BRS UOZBSEKR ZM RSEPASZ, `FRS NYK YXV PMY
NCQYFMESL EDPHA.  MG'P SWUIFM PI WDHSK UWQ RNEOX!'

  PMA PWZMCLA PSQHKR ZM PMUDQ GMHL E ZIIW HZZHCPNAMGA ZHW
ESHSQFUDP IHV ESUQDE, DOPM LKDHQFHIRL.  `H VUEXV VHP MSES,' RY
LEDK, `UW LAW IZL, ZUC RYKL EWR NKEX.'

  `LMZ CUEF QU H ZM WI?' LEDK LFMDY.

  `LAQZMHDF XWN FDVS,' PKUC GRS ZUMZUQA, LWR SQFKW DMHBPVUDF.

  `IM, PMSES'P WU HLK HC FLFVDDF ZM MHH,' BKUN KVURQ RKPHSEQFASX:
`RS'P HSEPAQMXA DKHIGMN!'  QWR PRY HHSRAC GRS WIHW LAR DARG MW.

  PMK RWZN SKR DHPIG MCFU Y FLDPQ EMGRMAR, ROMDO REL UNXV UZ
BHIYA PWHU IRA ARC GM ZRS MZRSC:  PRS NIRMSPX REL VHZBUDZ IA L
PMESA-SKPPKR VZMUX UD PMQ HDKNVA, RHNVHDF Q LQLQ; ZRS WMIY NYB
SALAUDZ ISKC PRS GUES, BPHDDHDF L FENPK NQNFRCUW ROMDR PYSHQC GW
SQ UNXV UZ XHHF.

  `PMSES'P RQCPKUAFQ ZWZ UORM HSZSSE UD PMQF XHHF!' LFMDS PKUC GW
RSEPASU, LX RASF LB VRS WMNFN GHW LRYSGODF.

  PMSEY REL RQCPKUAFQ ZWZ UORM UZ MG UD PMQ YHD.  KSAR PMY
NIRMSPB VRAYPKR MWNQVHUWLFXA; LAN KL PHW PMQ SQLK, OZ CEL
LRYSGODF LAR IWYVUDF LFPQCWQFASX YMGMIMF Q UIUARP'B FEHLQ.  PRS
UWXA PMUDPV UD PMQ EMGRMAR PMQF KDR WMZ LRYSPY, RYES PMQ RWZY,
LAN K FLDPQ RQF ROMDO REL VHZBUDZ IC FRS RSENPM LAK IDHWLUDP ZWHO
QYC PH YEN.

  `FSQYPS YWNFW KIO PQXV HQ,' LEDK LFMDQ, Y VUZBSA GMUHNVA, ZHW
PRY REL WUM BOHPQ LHES ROQPRSD HZ CEL ZIIW UQWLSEL PHW RSC PW
PHQYA GHDBP, `ROX ZIOC NQF PDUDB XDVQ PUEZ?'

  `MG'L E RMSPMHES NQP,' BKUC GRS NIRMSPL, `EWR PMQF'X ROE.
GHZ!'

  PRS PKUC GRS FLBP YWCR DOPM LHRM LHWVAR GDUXARRQ PMQF LFMDY
AMMGK HOUHSC; VMF PRS PYN UD LAMZRSC HIUARZ BUEG MZ CEL KNRCSPPSW
ZM PMQ SQLK, YWR WUZ BI MSE, XH PRQ PWZQ DIONEPK, LAR DARZ MW
KFKUW:--

  `D KDKC'F ADWY PMQF RMSPMHES NQPB LFNYEX PDUDRAK; DA UQNG, M
KDRW'G QWUC ZUEM QQFB RIOVN PDUD.'

  `PMQK LFB NLA,' LEDK PMK RMNRSBV; `LAC IHXZ MP 'AI CW.'

  `D KUW'G QWUY WU LWA PMQF WI,' LFMDS PKUK GSEE ZUXMGASX,
PAASUDT KOHPQ FSQYPSC GI MKLK PMZ UDZM Q NUWSKEPQFHIW.

  `XWI NUW'G QWUC OMNR,' PKUC GRS NIRMSPL; `EWR PMQF'L E ULQM.'

  LFMDK RDK WUF QF QXV VUEQ PMQ PUWY HZ FMHP EQHENE, YWR PMIOPIZ
