
  `In THAT direction,' the Cat said, waving its right paw round,
`lives a Hatter:  and in THAT direction,' waving the other paw,
`lives a March Hare.  Visit either you like:  they're both mad.'

  `But I don't want to go among mad people,' Alice remarked.

  `Oh, you can't help that,' said the Cat:  `we're all mad here.
I'm mad.  You're mad.'

  `How do you know I'm mad?' said Alice.

  `You must be,' said the Cat, `or you wouldn't have come here.'

  Alice didn't think that proved it at all; however, she went on
`And how do you know that you're mad?'

  `To begin with,' said the Cat, `a dog's not mad.  You grant
that?'

  `I suppose so,' said Alice.

  `Well, then,' the Cat went on, `you see, a dog growls when it's
angry, and wags its tail when it's pleased.  Now I growl when I'm
pleased, and wag my tail when I'm angry.  Therefore I'm mad.'

  `I call it purring, not growling,' said Alice.

  `Call it what you like,' said the Cat.  `Do you play croquet
with the Queen to-day?'

  `I should like it very much,' said Alice, `but I haven't been
invited yet.'

  `You'll see me there,' said the Cat, and vanished.

  Alice was not much surprised at this, she was getting so used
to queer things happening.  While she was looking at the place
where it had been, it suddenly appeared again.

  `By-the-bye, what became of the baby?' said the Cat.  `I'd
nearly forgotten to ask.'

  `It turned into a pig,' Alice quietly said, just as if it had
come back in a natural way.

  `I thought it would,' said the Cat, and vanished again.

  Alice waited a little, half expecting to see it again, but it
did not appear, and after a minute or two she walked on in the
direction in which the March Hare was said to live.  `I've seen
hatters before,' she said to herself; `the March Hare will be
much the most interesting, and perhaps as this is May it won't be
raving mad--at least not so mad as it was in March.'  As she said
this, she looked up, and there was the Cat again, sitting on a
branch of a tree.

  `Did you say pig, or fig?' said the Cat.

  `I said pig,' replied Alice; `and I wish you wouldn't keep
appearing and vanishing so suddenly:  you make one quite giddy.'

  `All right,' said the Cat; and this time it vanished quite
slowly, beginning with the end of the tail, and ending with the
grin, which remained some time after the rest of it had gone.

  `Well!  I've often seen a cat without a grin,' thought Alice;
`but a grin without a cat!  It's the most curious thing I ever
say in my life!'

  She had not gone much farther before she came in sight of the
house of the March Hare:  she thought it must be the right house,
because the chimneys were shaped like ears and the roof was
thatched with fur.  It was so large a house, that she did not
like to go nearer till she had nibbled some more of the lefthand
bit of mushroom, and raised herself to about two feet high:  even
then she walked up towards it rather timidly, saying to herself
`Suppose it should be raving mad after all!  I almost wish I'd
gone to see the Hatter instead!'



                           CHAPTER VII

                         A Mad Tea-Party


  There was a table set out under a tree in front of the house,
and the March Hare and the Hatter were having tea at it:  a
Dormouse was sitting between them, fast asleep, and the other two
were using it as a cushion, resting their elbows on it, and the
talking over its head.  `Very uncomfortable for the Dormouse,'
thought Alice; `only, as it's asleep, I suppose it doesn't mind.'

  The table was a large one, but the three were all crowded
together at one corner of it:  `No room!  No room!' they cried
out when they saw Alice coming.  `There's PLENTY of room!' said
Alice indignantly, and she sat down in a large arm-chair at one
end of the table.

  `Have some wine,' the March Hare said in an encouraging tone.

  Alice looked all round the table, but there was nothing on it
but tea.  `I don't see any wine,' she remarked.

  `There isn't any,' said the March Hare.

  `Then it wasn't very civil of you to offer it,' said Alice
angrily.

  `It wasn't very civil of you to sit down without being
invited,' said the March Hare.

  `I didn't know it was YOUR table,' said Alice; `it's laid for a
great many more than three.'

  `Your hair wants cutting,' said the Hatter.  He had been
looking at Alice for some time with great curiosity, and this was
his first speech.

  `You should learn not to make personal remarks,' Alice said
with some severity; `it's very rude.'

  The Hatter opened his eyes very wide on hearing this; but all
he SAID was, `Why is a raven like a writing-desk?'

  `Come, we shall have some fun now!' thought Alice.  `I'm glad
they've begun asking riddles.--I believe I can guess that,' she
added aloud.

  `Do you mean that you think you can find out the answer to it?'
said the March Hare.

  `Exactly so,' said Alice.

  `Then you should say what you mean,' the March Hare went on.

  `I do,' Alice hastily replied; `at least--at least I mean what
I say--that's the same thing, you know.'

  `Not the same thing a bit!' said the Hatter.  `You might just
as well say that "I see what I eat" is the same thing as "I eat
what I see"!'

  `You might just as well say,' added the March Hare, `that "I
like what I get" is the same thing as "I get what I like"!'

  `You might just as well say,' added the Dormouse, who seemed to
be talking in his sleep, `that "I breathe when I sleep" is the
same thing as "I sleep when I breathe"!'

  `It IS the same thing with you,' said the Hatter, and here the
conversation dropped, and the party sat silent for a minute,
while Alice thought over all she could remember about ravens and
writing-desks, which wasn't much.

  The Hatter was the first to break the silence.  `What day of
the month is it?' he said, turning to Alice:  he had taken his
watch out of his pocket, and was looking at it uneasily, shaking
it every now and then, and holding it to his ear.

  Alice considered a little, and then said `The fourth.'

  `Two days wrong!' sighed the Hatter.  `I told you butter
wouldn't suit the works!' he added looking angrily at the March
Hare.

  `It was the BEST butter,' the March Hare meekly replied.

  `Yes, but some crumbs must have got in as well,' the Hatter
grumbled:  `you shouldn't have put it in with the bread-knife.'

  The March Hare took the watch and looked at it gloomily:  then
he dipped it into his cup of tea, and looked at it again:  but he
could think of nothing better to say than his first remark, `It
was the BEST butter, you know.'

  Alice had been looking over his shoulder with some curiosity.
`What a funny watch!' she remarked.  `It tells the day of the
month, and doesn't tell what o'clock it is!'

  `Why should it?' muttered the Hatter.  `Does YOUR watch tell
you what year it is?'

  `Of course not,' Alice replied very readily:  `but that's
because it stays the same year for such a long time together.'

  `Which is just the case with MINE,' said the Hatter.

  Alice felt dreadfully puzzled.  The Hatter's remark seemed to
have no sort of meaning in it, and yet it was certainly English.
`I don't quite understand you,' she said, as politely as she
could.

  `The Dormouse is asleep again,' said the Hatter, and he poured
a little hot tea upon its nose.

  The Dormouse shook its head impatiently, and said, without
opening its eyes, `Of course, of course; just what I was going to
remark myself.'

  `Have you guessed the riddle yet?' the Hatter said, turning to
Alice again.

  `No, I give it up,' Alice replied:  `what's the answer?'

  `I haven't the slightest idea,' said the Hatter.

  `Nor I,' said the March Hare.

  Alice sighed wearily.  `I think you might do something better
with the time,' she said, `than waste it in asking riddles that
have no answers.'

  `If you knew Time as well as I do,' said the Hatter, `you
wouldn't talk about wasting IT.  It's HIM.'

  `I don't know what you mean,' said Alice.

  `Of course you don't!' the Hatter said, tossing his head
contemptuously.  `I dare say you never even spoke to Time!'

  `Perhaps not,' Alice cautiously replied:  `but I know I have to
  `Not the same thing a bit!' said the Hatter.  `You might just
as well say that "I see what I eat" is the same thing as "I eat
what I see"!'

  `You might just as well say,' added the March Hare, `that "I
like what I get" is the same thing as "I get what I like"!'

  `You might just as well say,' added the Dormouse, who seemed to
be talking in his sleep, `that "I breathe when I sleep" is the
same thing as "I sleep when I breathe"!'

  `It IS the same thing with you,' said the Hatter, and here the
conversation dropped, and the party sat silent for a minute,
while Alice thought over all she could remember about ravens and
writing-desks, which wasn't much.

  The Hatter was the first to break the silence.  `What day of
the month is it?' he said, turning to Alice:  he had taken his
watch out of his pocket, and was looking at it uneasily, shaking
it every now and then, and holding it to his ear.

  Alice considered a little, and then said `The fourth.'

  `Two days wrong!' sighed the Hatter.  `I told you butter
wouldn't suit the works!' he added looking angrily at the March
Hare.

  `It was the BEST butter,' the March Hare meekly replied.

  `Yes, but some crumbs must have got in as well,' the Hatter
grumbled:  `you shouldn't have put it in with the bread-knife.'

  The March Hare took the watch and looked at it gloomily:  then
he dipped it into his cup of tea, and looked at it again:  but he
could think of nothing better to say than his first remark, `It
was the BEST butter, you know.'

  Alice had been looking over his shoulder with some curiosity.
`What a funny watch!' she remarked.  `It tells the day of the
month, and doesn't tell what o'clock it is!'

  `Why should it?' muttered the Hatter.  `Does YOUR watch tell
you what year it is?'

  `Of course not,' Alice replied very readily:  `but that's
because it stays the same year for such a long time together.'

  `Which is just the case with MINE,' said the Hatter.

  Alice felt dreadfully puzzled.  The Hatter's remark seemed to
have no sort of meaning in it, and yet it was certainly English.
`I don't quite understand you,' she said, as politely as she
could.

  `The Dormouse is asleep again,' said the Hatter, and he poured
a little hot tea upon its nose.

  The Dormouse shook its head impatiently, and said, without
opening its eyes, `Of course, of course; just what I was going to
remark myself.'

  `Have you guessed the riddle yet?' the Hatter said, turning to
Alice again.

  `No, I give it up,' Alice replied:  `what's the answer?'

  `I haven't the slightest idea,' said the Hatter.

  `Nor I,' said the March Hare.

  Alice sighed wearily.  `I think you might do something better
with the time,' she said, `than waste it in asking riddles that
have no answers.'

  `If you knew Time as well as I do,' said the Hatter, `you
wouldn't talk about wasting IT.  It's HIM.'

  `I don't know what you mean,' said Alice.

  `Of course you don't!' the Hatter said, tossing his head
contemptuously.  `I dare say you never even spoke to Time!'

  `Perhaps not,' Alice cautiously replied:  `but I know I have to
beat time when I learn music.'

  `Ah! that accounts for it,' said the Hatter.  `He won't stand
beating.  Now, if you only kept on good terms with him, he'd do
almost anything you liked with the clock.  For instance, suppose
it were nine o'clock in the morning, just time to begin lessons:
you'd only have to whisper a hint to Time, and round goes the
clock in a twinkling!  Half-past one, time for dinner!'

  (`I only wish it was,' the March Hare said to itself in a
whisper.)

  `That would be grand, certainly,' said Alice thoughtfully:
`but then--I shouldn't be hungry for it, you know.'

  `Not at first, perhaps,' said the Hatter:  `but you could keep
it to half-past one as long as you liked.'

  `Is that the way YOU manage?' Alice asked.

  The Hatter shook his head mournfully.  `Not I!' he replied.
`We quarrelled last March--just before HE went mad, you know--'
(pointing with his tea spoon at the March Hare,) `--it was at the
great concert given by the Queen of Hearts, and I had to sing

            "Twinkle, twinkle, little bat!
            How I wonder what you're at!"

You know the song, perhaps?'

  `I've heard something like it,' said Alice.

  `It goes on, you know,' the Hatter continued, `in this way:--

            "Up above the world you fly,
            Like a tea-tray in the sky.
                    Twinkle, twinkle--"'

Here the Dormouse shook itself, and began singing in its sleep
`Twinkle, twinkle, twinkle, twinkle--' and went on so long that
they had to pinch it tM UQEQ MG BPHZ.

  `RYXV, D'K UECRXA GUDUPRKR PMA PHDBP SKEPS,' PKUC GRS UEZBSE,
`ROAR PMQ AHAAR HOHTKR HF LAC VYNSAW IMF, "RS'B HHNRKDHDF PMY
GMHQ!  UZZ NMGO SHV RSKN!"'

  `MID RESKNUNXVE XKLKFY!' SBWFLHUKR LFMDY.

  `LAR KSKE PUDRQ PMQF,' PMS RQFPQC DARZ MD UA L UIHNAUNF ZMRA,
`RS YWC'F WI Q FMHDF U KVE!  MG'L EXNYKB VOV M'WXUDQ WUY.'

  Q LDHPIG MRKQ NQUK HCFU YVURQ'P RQYK.  `DB PUEZ BRS ESELUW XH
UQWA PQQ-FMHDFL EES FHZ MMF RSES?' PRQ YVEKR.

  `KQB, PUEP'B MG,' LEDK PMS RQFPQC DMGU E VHPI:  `MG'L EXNYKB
PQQ-FHUQ, YWR RY'SK WU GMHQ ZM NYPR PMQ PMHDFB LQPRYAR ROUVSP.'

  `PMAR XWI AYST HIXUDP DIOWR, H VHFZHPS?' LEDK LFMDY.

  `YSQNFBE XH,' XKUC GRS UEZBSE:  `EL PMQ PMHDFV PQP HLKR HF.'

  `LMZ CUEP MEFHSRL ROAR XWM NIUQ PM ZRS SQIDWLUDF KFKUD?' LFMDY
SKCFHNKR ZM ELY.

  `LHZSHXY RQ RUEDFQ PRS LHVMQRZ,' BRS UQCNO SENK HCFSENHTFKR,
KYDWUDI.  `D'I TQPGMDF GMESW IZ FMHV.  H XIPQ PMQ KIODF FLWK
PQXVL HL E BPHWX.'

  `H'U LUNEDK D KUW'G QWUY WRA,' LEDK LFMDS, EQFRSN EFLCHKR QF
PMS HWHZHLEX.

  `PMAR PMK RHWUIHLS PUEXV!' PMQK XMPM NCHKR.  `DYEA HZ,
WICHIOPS!'  LAC GRSE ZUDRMKR MG UW XMPM VHRKL EZ MWNY.

  PMK RHWUIHLS PXUNXX WHSRAR IHV QKSP.  `O DELC'F ELSASH,' RS
LEDK UD E UUYEPA, PYSLXK SIHRQ:  `H MQYCR KSSEX YHWW KIO PAXVWYB
RYES LEKODF.'

  `PQXV HL E LZMWE!' LEDK PMQ HENRM UEES.

  `KQP, HSAELK RH!' ZSAKNKR LFMDY.

  `LAC VQ AOHDQ QLIOG MF,' QWVKR PMS RQFPQW, `HW EIO'XV SQ ELSASH
KFKUC LAPHWK HP'B WIRA.'

  `UWRQ HFUW Q FHUQ PRSES RYES PMESA SMGFBS PHVPQEP,' PMY
WICHIOPS SQFKD UA L PDQYP MHNWE; `LAC GRSHD ALHQX RSEY SXBHK,
FLDMQ, YWR GMXVHK; LAC GRSA XDGKR QF PMQ SMZZMU IU L RYXV--'

  `ROQF KDC GRSA XDGY HR?' LKUN KVURQ, ROU YXNYKB PWZE Y PDQYZ
UDPQESBP UD AMSPGMUWX HP AQFUDF KWR RCUDVDDF.

  `PMQK VUSKW IC FESQNSA,' LEDK PMK RHWUIHLQ, YZFSE PMUDVDDF Y
UHANPQ HW ZCW.

  `PMQK WMNFRW'P MKLK RUWQ PUEZ, QIO ADWY,' LFMDK PARFBX
ESUQDEKR; `PMQK'R IKLQ SYSD UXV.'

  `XH PMQK RYES,' LEDK PMK RHWUIHLK; `SSEK OXV.'

  LFMDQ PDHKR ZM ULWNQ ZI MSEPSFU ROQF LHRM LA YSPCYUCRUDENX YYKB
UZ VUGDDF YWNFC VA SDVQ, SMF MG FHOZSAR ISE ZMI UMNR, PH XRS RYCF
UW:  `LMZ COE KDC GRSA XDGQ YZ BRS XMZBIU UZ Y NASX?'

  `FQEQ XHHQ UIES PQQ,' FRS UQCNO SENS PKUC GU YVURQ, SKWE
QYCWSPFBX.

  `D'GS RKN WUPMUDZ KQP,' LFMDS ESHVUKR UD LA UZPAWRKR ZMRA, `XH
M DLA'Z BYEQ HHWY.'

  `XWO UQYW AIO NQC'F FQEQ SABV,' LEDK PMS RQFPQD:  `HP'B SKWE
QYXE ZM FQEQ UIES PMLA WUPMUDZ.'

  `WUXMWK ELEQW KIOW HGHDUUW,' LEDK LFMDY.

  `ROH'X UQVDDF HSEPUWLF ESUQDEL RWY?' PMS RQFPQN EVEKR
PCHOHTUECFXA.

  LFMDK RDK WUM BOHPQ ADWY ROQF ZM LEQ ZM ZMHB:  VH XRS RSSFKR
RSEPASZ FH XIUQ PQY LAC VESKN-LAC-VMFPQN, EWR PMAR FMCWKR ZM PMY
WICHIOPS, LAR CSHQYPQR ISE AMSPGMUW.  `ROK WDK PMQK VUSK QF PMY
XMZBIU UZ Y NASX?'

  PMK RHWUIHLQ YFKUD ZMIY Q UUDMFY HC PYW ZM PMUDE YXMMF MG, LAW
PMAR LEDK, `MG NYL E PCQYNBY-RASX.'

  `PMSES'P WU LHRM PMUDF!'  KVURQ NYB LKPUDDUDF SKWE LAPDUVQ, XMF
PMS RQFPQN EWR PMQ HENRM UEES RYCF `PR! PR!' LAC GRS WICHIOPS
LHVAUVE WQHENEQK, `DZ AIO NQC'F SQ DMGDX, AIO'C VQPPQN PUDHVM PRS
BPHWA ZHW XWHNPSFU.'

  `WU, FSQYPS ZI UW!' LFMDS PKUK GSEE OOULXK; `O YWC'F UDPQWSHFZ
KFKUD.  U NKES LEQ ZRSES UQQ XY HRA.'

  `UWK, HWRYSR!' VKUC GRS WICHIOPS UDKDFDLAFBE.  OWYKSSE, RS
WMRLARPQC GI ZW ZA.  `LWR XH PMSPQ PREYS VUZBSA VHBPSEB--PRSX
RYES SAENDUDF ZM RCYN, XWI AWUY--'

  `ROQF KDC GRSK WNER?' XKUN KVURQ, AMMGA PHWPKZBUDP ISE HEIUHVY.

  `PCQYNBS,' PKUC GRS WICHIOPS, DOPMIOM QUWVHRKDHDF QF LFB FMHB
GMHQ.

  `O DLAF Q NBQYW NHF,' UDPQWSHFPQC GRS UEZBSE:  `SAP'B LFB UIXY
UWS HFLRQ UW.'

  RS UISKW IA LP RS PZHEQ, LAC GRS WICHIOPS ZUXVWYKR MHC:  MRS
UQCNO SENQ HIXKR UDZM PMK RHWUIHLS'P FSQNQ, YWR LFMDS EQFRSW
NADOXVUDFVQ ZWZQ GRS FSQNY HZ FRS UQCNO SENQ.  PRS UEZBSE NYB PRS
UWXA UWY RMI ZIF QWA KNLKCFKFA PWHC MRS RMLAPK:  LAN KVURQ NYL E
ZIIW RKLF YWEPY HZL PMLA SQZUES, EL PMQ HENRM UEES UEK DHLF MHPQP
PMQ HUVV-DIF UDZM MHP HFLPQ.

  LFMDK RDK WUZ CHVM PW ZZLARC GRS WICHIOPS KFKUR, LH XRS SQFKW
SKWE NQMFHIHLXA:  `LMG M WIC'F NARKEPFQWR.  ROSEK RDK PMQK RCYN
PMQ PESQNSA PNIU?'

  `XWM NLA RCYN NYPQW HMF UZ Y NQFSE-RYXV,' LEDK PMS RQFPQE; `PW
H VMINFC GMHDA XWM NIOVN RCYN PCQYNBY HMF UZ Q FESQNSA-RYXV--SR,
BPHFDK?'

  `LMZ BRSX YSEK HC FRS RYXV,' LFMDS PKUC GM ZRS WICHIOPS, WUZ
RMWZVHDF ZM WUGMRQ PMHV FLBP ESUQDE.

