                          Edited by James Daly







                             9-10 June 1992


                           Library of Congress
                            Washington, D.C.



    Supported by a Grant from the David and Lucile Packard Foundation


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                            TABLE OF CONTENTS


Acknowledgements

Introduction

Proceedings
   Welcome
      Prosser Gifford and Carl Fleischhauer

   Session I.  Content in a New Form:  Who Will Use It and What Will They Do?
      James Daly (Moderator)
      Avra Michelson, Overview
      Susan H. Veccia, User Evaluation
      Joanne Freeman, Beyond the Scholar
         Discussion

   Session II.  Show and Tell
      Jacqueline Hess (Moderator)
      Elli Mylonas, Perseus Project
         Discussion
      Eric M. Calaluca, Patrologia Latina Database
      Carl Fleischhauer and Ricky Erway, American Memory
         Discussion
      Dorothy Twohig, The Papers of George Washington
         Discussion
      Maria L. Lebron, The Online Journal of Current Clinical Trials
         Discussion
      Lynne K. Personius, Cornell mathematics books
         Discussion

   Session III.  Distribution, Networks, and Networking:
                 Options for Dissemination
      Robert G. Zich (Moderator)
      Clifford A. Lynch
         Discussion
      Howard Besser
         Discussion
      Ronald L. Larsen
      Edwin B. Brownrigg
         Discussion

   Session IV.  Image Capture, Text Capture, Overview of Text and
                Image Storage Formats
         William L. Hooton (Moderator)
      A) Principal Methods for Image Capture of Text:
            direct scanning, use of microform
         Anne R. Kenney
         Pamela Q.J. Andre
         Judith A. Zidar
         Donald J. Waters
            Discussion
      B) Special Problems:  bound volumes, conservation,
                            reproducing printed halftones
         George Thoma
         Carl Fleischhauer
            Discussion
      C) Image Standards and Implications for Preservation
         Jean Baronas
         Patricia Battin
            Discussion
      D) Text Conversion:  OCR vs. rekeying, standards of accuracy
                           and use of imperfect texts, service bureaus
         Michael Lesk
         Ricky Erway
         Judith A. Zidar
            Discussion

   Session V.  Approaches to Preparing Electronic Texts
      Susan Hockey (Moderator)
      Stuart Weibel
         Discussion
      C.M. Sperberg-McQueen
         Discussion
      Eric M. Calaluca
         Discussion

   Session VI.  Copyright Issues
      Marybeth Peters

   Session VII.  Conclusion
      Prosser Gifford (Moderator)
      General discussion

Appendix I:  Program

Appendix II:  Abstracts

Appendix III:  Directory of Participants


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                            Acknowledgements

I would like to thank Carl Fleischhauer and Prosser Gifford for the
opportunity to learn about areas of human activity unknown to me a scant
ten months ago, and the David and Lucile Packard Foundation for
supporting that opportunity.  The help given by others is acknowledged on
a separate page.

                                                          19 October 1992


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                              INTRODUCTION

The Workshop on Electronic Texts (1) drew together representatives of
various projects and interest groups to compare ideas, beliefs,
experiences, and, in particular, methods of placing and presenting
historical textual materials in computerized form.  Most attendees gained
much in insight and outlook from the event.  But the assembly did not
form a new nation, or, to put it another way, the diversity of projects
and interests was too great to draw the representatives into a cohesive,
action-oriented body.(2)

Everyone attending the Workshop shared an interest in preserving and
providing access to historical texts.  But within this broad field the
attendees represented a variety of formal, informal, figurative, and
literal groups, with many individuals belonging to more than one.  These
groups may be defined roughly according to the following topics or
activities:

* Imaging
* Searchable coded texts
* National and international computer networks
* CD-ROM production and dissemination
* Methods and technology for converting older paper materials into
electronic form
* Study of the use of digital materials by scholars and others

This summary is arranged thematically and does not follow the actual
sequence of presentations.

NOTES:
     (1)  In this document, the phrase electronic text is used to mean
     any computerized reproduction or version of a document, book,
     article, or manuscript (including images), and not merely a machine-
     readable or machine-searchable text.

     (2)  The Workshop was held at the Library of Congress on 9-10 June
     1992, with funding from the David and Lucile Packard Foundation.
     The document that follows represents a summary of the presentations
     made at the Workshop and was compiled by James DALY.  This
     introduction was written by DALY and Carl FLEISCHHAUER.


PRESERVATION AND IMAGING

Preservation, as that term is used by archivists,(3) was most explicitly
discussed in the context of imaging.  Anne KENNEY and Lynne PERSONIUS
explained how the concept of a faithful copy and the user-friendliness of
the traditional book have guided their project at Cornell University.(4)
Although interested in computerized dissemination, participants in the
Cornell project are creating digital image sets of older books in the
public domain as a source for a fresh paper facsimile or, in a future
phase, microfilm.  The books returned to the library shelves are
high-quality and useful replacements on acid-free paper that should last
a long time.  To date, the Cornell project has placed little or no
emphasis on creating searchable texts; one would not be surprised to find
that the project participants view such texts as new editions, and thus
not as faithful reproductions.

In her talk on preservation, Patricia BATTIN struck an ecumenical and
flexible note as she endorsed the creation and dissemination of a variety
of types of digital copies.  Do not be too narrow in defining what counts
as a preservation element, BATTIN counseled; for the present, at least,
digital copies made with preservation in mind cannot be as narrowly
standardized as, say, microfilm copies with the same objective.  Setting
standards precipitously can inhibit creativity, but delay can result in
chaos, she advised.

In part, BATTIN's position reflected the unsettled nature of image-format
standards, and attendees could hear echoes of this unsettledness in the
comments of various speakers.  For example, Jean BARONAS reviewed the
status of several formal standards moving through committees of experts;
and Clifford LYNCH encouraged the use of a new guideline for transmitting
document images on Internet.  Testimony from participants in the National
Agricultural Library's (NAL) Text Digitization Program and LC's American
Memory project highlighted some of the challenges to the actual creation
or interchange of images, including difficulties in converting
preservation microfilm to digital form.  Donald WATERS reported on the
progress of a master plan for a project at Yale University to convert
books on microfilm to digital image sets, Project Open Book (POB).

The Workshop offered rather less of an imaging practicum than planned,
but "how-to" hints emerge at various points, for example, throughout
KENNEY's presentation and in the discussion of arcana such as
thresholding and dithering offered by George THOMA and FLEISCHHAUER.

NOTES:
     (3)  Although there is a sense in which any reproductions of
     historical materials preserve the human record, specialists in the
     field have developed particular guidelines for the creation of
     acceptable preservation copies.

     (4)  Titles and affiliations of presenters are given at the
     beginning of their respective talks and in the Directory of
     Participants (Appendix III).


THE MACHINE-READABLE TEXT:  MARKUP AND USE

The sections of the Workshop that dealt with machine-readable text tended
to be more concerned with access and use than with preservation, at least
in the narrow technical sense.  Michael SPERBERG-McQUEEN made a forceful
presentation on the Text Encoding Initiative's (TEI) implementation of
the Standard Generalized Markup Language (SGML).  His ideas were echoed
by Susan HOCKEY, Elli MYLONAS, and Stuart WEIBEL.  While the
presentations made by the TEI advocates contained no practicum, their
discussion focused on the value of the finished product, what the
European Community calls reusability, but what may also be termed
durability.  They argued that marking up--that is, coding--a text in a
well-conceived way will permit it to be moved from one computer
environment to another, as well as to be used by various users.  Two
kinds of markup were distinguished:  1) procedural markup, which
describes the features of a text (e.g., dots on a page), and 2)
descriptive markup, which describes the structure or elements of a
document (e.g., chapters, paragraphs, and front matter).

The TEI proponents emphasized the importance of texts to scholarship.
They explained how heavily coded (and thus analyzed and annotated) texts
can underlie research, play a role in scholarly communication, and
facilitate classroom teaching.  SPERBERG-McQUEEN reminded listeners that
a written or printed item (e.g., a particular edition of a book) is
merely a representation of the abstraction we call a text.  To concern
ourselves with faithfully reproducing a printed instance of the text,
SPERBERG-McQUEEN argued, is to concern ourselves with the representation
of a representation ("images as simulacra for the text").  The TEI proponents'
interest in images tends to focus on corollary materials for use in teaching,
for example, photographs of the Acropolis to accompany a Greek text.

By the end of the Workshop, SPERBERG-McQUEEN confessed to having been
converted to a limited extent to the view that electronic images
constitute a promising alternative to microfilming; indeed, an
alternative probably superior to microfilming.  But he was not convinced
that electronic images constitute a serious attempt to represent text in
electronic form.  HOCKEY and MYLONAS also conceded that their experience
at the Pierce Symposium the previous week at Georgetown University and
the present conference at the Library of Congress had compelled them to
reevaluate their perspective on the usefulness of text as images.
Attendees could see that the text and image advocates were in
constructive tension, so to say.

Three nonTEI presentations described approaches to preparing
machine-readable text that are less rigorous and thus less expensive.  In
the case of the Papers of George Washington, Dorothy TWOHIG explained
that the digital version will provide a not-quite-perfect rendering of
the transcribed text--some 135,000 documents, available for research
during the decades while the perfect or print version is completed.
Members of the American Memory team and the staff of NAL's Text
Digitization Program (see below) also outlined a middle ground concerning
searchable texts.  In the case of American Memory, contractors produce
texts with about 99-percent accuracy that serve as "browse" or
"reference" versions of written or printed originals.  End users who need
faithful copies or perfect renditions must refer to accompanying sets of
digital facsimile images or consult copies of the originals in a nearby
library or archive.  American Memory staff argued that the high cost of
producing 100-percent accurate copies would prevent LC from offering
access to large parts of its collections.


THE MACHINE-READABLE TEXT:  METHODS OF CONVERSION

Although the Workshop did not include a systematic examination of the
methods for converting texts from paper (or from facsimile images) into
machine-readable form, nevertheless, various speakers touched upon this
matter.  For example, WEIBEL reported that OCLC has experimented with a
merging of multiple optical character recognition systems that will
reduce errors from an unacceptable rate of 5 characters out of every
l,000 to an unacceptable rate of 2 characters out of every l,000.

Pamela ANDRE presented an overview of NAL's Text Digitization Program and
Judith ZIDAR discussed the technical details.  ZIDAR explained how NAL
purchased hardware and software capable of performing optical character
recognition (OCR) and text conversion and used its own staff to convert
texts.  The process, ZIDAR said, required extensive editing and project
staff found themselves considering alternatives, including rekeying
and/or creating abstracts or summaries of texts.  NAL reckoned costs at
$7 per page.  By way of contrast, Ricky ERWAY explained that American
Memory had decided from the start to contract out conversion to external
service bureaus.  The criteria used to select these contractors were cost
and quality of results, as opposed to methods of conversion.  ERWAY noted
that historical documents or books often do not lend themselves to OCR.
Bound materials represent a special problem.  In her experience, quality
control--inspecting incoming materials, counting errors in samples--posed
the most time-consuming aspect of contracting out conversion.  ERWAY
reckoned American Memory's costs at $4 per page, but cautioned that fewer
cost-elements had been included than in NAL's figure.


OPTIONS FOR DISSEMINATION

The topic of dissemination proper emerged at various points during the
Workshop.  At the session devoted to national and international computer
networks, LYNCH, Howard BESSER, Ronald LARSEN, and Edwin BROWNRIGG
highlighted the virtues of Internet today and of the network that will
evolve from Internet.  Listeners could discern in these narratives a
vision of an information democracy in which millions of citizens freely
find and use what they need.  LYNCH noted that a lack of standards
inhibits disseminating multimedia on the network, a topic also discussed
by BESSER.  LARSEN addressed the issues of network scalability and
modularity and commented upon the difficulty of anticipating the effects
of growth in orders of magnitude.  BROWNRIGG talked about the ability of
packet radio to provide certain links in a network without the need for
wiring.  However, the presenters also called attention to the
shortcomings and incongruities of present-day computer networks.  For
example:  1) Network use is growing dramatically, but much network
traffic consists of personal communication (E-mail).  2) Large bodies of
information are available, but a user's ability to search across their
entirety is limited.  3) There are significant resources for science and
technology, but few network sources provide content in the humanities.
4) Machine-readable texts are commonplace, but the capability of the
system to deal with images (let alone other media formats) lags behind.
A glimpse of a multimedia future for networks, however, was provided by
Maria LEBRON in her overview of the Online Journal of Current Clinical
Trials (OJCCT), and the process of scholarly publishing on-line.

The contrasting form of the CD-ROM disk was never systematically
analyzed, but attendees could glean an impression from several of the
show-and-tell presentations.  The Perseus and American Memory examples
demonstrated recently published disks, while the descriptions of the
IBYCUS version of the Papers of George Washington and Chadwyck-Healey's
Patrologia Latina Database (PLD) told of disks to come.  According to
Eric CALALUCA, PLD's principal focus has been on converting Jacques-Paul
Migne's definitive collection of Latin texts to machine-readable form.
Although everyone could share the network advocates' enthusiasm for an
on-line future, the possibility of rolling up one's sleeves for a session
with a CD-ROM containing both textual materials and a powerful retrieval
engine made the disk seem an appealing vessel indeed.  The overall
discussion suggested that the transition from CD-ROM to on-line networked
access may prove far slower and more difficult than has been anticipated.


WHO ARE THE USERS AND WHAT DO THEY DO?

Although concerned with the technicalities of production, the Workshop
never lost sight of the purposes and uses of electronic versions of
textual materials.  As noted above, those interested in imaging discussed
the problematical matter of digital preservation, while the TEI proponents
described how machine-readable texts can be used in research.  This latter
topic received thorough treatment in the paper read by Avra MICHELSON.
She placed the phenomenon of electronic texts within the context of
broader trends in information technology and scholarly communication.

Among other things, MICHELSON described on-line conferences that
represent a vigorous and important intellectual forum for certain
disciplines.  Internet now carries more than 700 conferences, with about
80 percent of these devoted to topics in the social sciences and the
humanities.  Other scholars use on-line networks for "distance learning."
Meanwhile, there has been a tremendous growth in end-user computing;
professors today are less likely than their predecessors to ask the
campus computer center to process their data.  Electronic texts are one
key to these sophisticated applications, MICHELSON reported, and more and
more scholars in the humanities now work in an on-line environment.
Toward the end of the Workshop, Michael LESK presented a corollary to
MICHELSON's talk, reporting the results of an experiment that compared
the work of one group of chemistry students using traditional printed
texts and two groups using electronic sources.  The experiment
demonstrated that in the event one does not know what to read, one needs
the electronic systems; the electronic systems hold no advantage at the
moment if one knows what to read, but neither do they impose a penalty.

DALY provided an anecdotal account of the revolutionizing impact of the
new technology on his previous methods of research in the field of classics.
His account, by extrapolation, served to illustrate in part the arguments
made by MICHELSON concerning the positive effects of the sudden and radical
transformation being wrought in the ways scholars work.

Susan VECCIA and Joanne FREEMAN delineated the use of electronic
materials outside the university.  The most interesting aspect of their
use, FREEMAN said, could be seen as a paradox:  teachers in elementary
and secondary schools requested access to primary source materials but,
at the same time, found that "primariness" itself made these materials
difficult for their students to use.


OTHER TOPICS

Marybeth PETERS reviewed copyright law in the United States and offered
advice during a lively discussion of this subject.  But uncertainty
remains concerning the price of copyright in a digital medium, because a
solution remains to be worked out concerning management and synthesis of
copyrighted and out-of-copyright pieces of a database.

As moderator of the final session of the Workshop, Prosser GIFFORD directed
discussion to future courses of action and the potential role of LC in
advancing them.  Among the recommendations that emerged were the following:

     * Workshop participants should 1) begin to think about working
     with image material, but structure and digitize it in such a
     way that at a later stage it can be interpreted into text, and
     2) find a common way to build text and images together so that
     they can be used jointly at some stage in the future, with
     appropriate network support, because that is how users will want
     to access these materials.  The Library might encourage attempts
     to bring together people who are working on texts and images.

     * A network version of American Memory should be developed or
     consideration should be given to making the data in it
     available to people interested in doing network multimedia.
     Given the current dearth of digital data that is appealing and
     unencumbered by extremely complex rights problems, developing a
     network version of American Memory could do much to help make
     network multimedia a reality.

     * Concerning the thorny issue of electronic deposit, LC should
     initiate a catalytic process in terms of distributed
     responsibility, that is, bring together the distributed
     organizations and set up a study group to look at all the
     issues related to electronic deposit and see where we as a
     nation should move.  For example, LC might attempt to persuade
     one major library in each state to deal with its state
     equivalent publisher, which might produce a cooperative project
     that would be equitably distributed around the country, and one
     in which LC would be dealing with a minimal number of publishers
     and minimal copyright problems.  LC must also deal with the
     concept of on-line publishing, determining, among other things,
     how serials such as OJCCT might be deposited for copyright.

     * Since a number of projects are planning to carry out
     preservation by creating digital images that will end up in
     on-line or near-line storage at some institution, LC might play
     a helpful role, at least in the near term, by accelerating how
     to catalog that information into the Research Library Information
     Network (RLIN) and then into OCLC, so that it would be accessible.
     This would reduce the possibility of multiple institutions digitizing
     the same work.


CONCLUSION

The Workshop was valuable because it brought together partisans from
various groups and provided an occasion to compare goals and methods.
The more committed partisans frequently communicate with others in their
groups, but less often across group boundaries.  The Workshop was also
valuable to attendees--including those involved with American Memory--who
came less committed to particular approaches or concepts.  These
attendees learned a great deal, and plan to select and employ elements of
imaging, text-coding, and networked distribution that suit their
respective projects and purposes.

Still, reality rears its ugly head:  no breakthrough has been achieved.
On the imaging side, one confronts a proliferation of competing
data-interchange standards and a lack of consensus on the role of digital
facsimiles in preservation.  In the realm of machine-readable texts, one
encounters a reasonably mature standard but methodological difficulties
and high costs.  These latter problems, of course, represent a special
impediment to the desire, as it is sometimes expressed in the popular
press, "to put the [contents of the] Library of Congress on line."  In
the words of one participant, there was "no solution to the economic
problems--the projects that are out there are surviving, but it is going
to be a lot of work to transform the information industry, and so far the
investment to do that is not forthcoming" (LESK, per litteras).


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                               PROCEEDINGS


WELCOME

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
GIFFORD * Origin of Workshop in current Librarian's desire to make LC's
collections more widely available * Desiderata arising from the prospect
of greater interconnectedness *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

After welcoming participants on behalf of the Library of Congress,
American Memory (AM), and the National Demonstration Lab, Prosser
GIFFORD, director for scholarly programs, Library of Congress, located
the origin of the Workshop on Electronic Texts in a conversation he had
had considerably more than a year ago with Carl FLEISCHHAUER concerning
some of the issues faced by AM.  On the assumption that numerous other
people were asking the same questions, the decision was made to bring
together as many of these people as possible to ask the same questions
together.  In a deeper sense, GIFFORD said, the origin of the Workshop
lay in the desire of the current Librarian of Congress, James H.
Billington, to make the collections of the Library, especially those
offering unique or unusual testimony on aspects of the American
experience, available to a much wider circle of users than those few
people who can come to Washington to use them.  This meant that the
emphasis of AM, from the outset, has been on archival collections of the
basic material, and on making these collections themselves available,
rather than selected or heavily edited products.

From AM's emphasis followed the questions with which the Workshop began:
who will use these materials, and in what form will they wish to use
them.  But an even larger issue deserving mention, in GIFFORD's view, was
the phenomenal growth in Internet connectivity.  He expressed the hope
that the prospect of greater interconnectedness than ever before would
lead to:  1) much more cooperative and mutually supportive endeavors; 2)
development of systems of shared and distributed responsibilities to
avoid duplication and to ensure accuracy and preservation of unique
materials; and 3) agreement on the necessary standards and development of
the appropriate directories and indices to make navigation
straightforward among the varied resources that are, and increasingly
will be, available.  In this connection, GIFFORD requested that
participants reflect from the outset upon the sorts of outcomes they
thought the Workshop might have.  Did those present constitute a group
with sufficient common interests to propose a next step or next steps,
and if so, what might those be?  They would return to these questions the
following afternoon.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
FLEISCHHAUER * Core of Workshop concerns preparation and production of
materials * Special challenge in conversion of textual materials *
Quality versus quantity * Do the several groups represented share common
interests? *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Carl FLEISCHHAUER, coordinator, American Memory, Library of Congress,
emphasized that he would attempt to represent the people who perform some
of the work of converting or preparing  materials and that the core of
the Workshop had to do with preparation and production.  FLEISCHHAUER
then drew a distinction between the long term, when many things would be
available and connected in the ways that GIFFORD described, and the short
term, in which AM not only has wrestled with the issue of what is the
best course to pursue but also has faced a variety of technical
challenges.

FLEISCHHAUER remarked AM's endeYXIEP ZM RKLF DOPM Y NDKS ELAPK UZ VUSCENX
ZUCHQFB, VMNU EB HMZHIR FMDFMES WMXVQRGMUWB, VIOWR-ESWMCRUDT DUXSAQMHIRL,
LAR GMDZMDHLF WMXVQRGMUWX HG LENHIHL XHCPP, SPHQRUKXVQ WUXSAQMHIRL UZ
HRMZIZNEHRV.  HC FRS WMHNPS UZ PMSPY SZLHWPB, QU EQTF WMUHDF LQDQ ZM
PQBZNLB UQFSEUKXB--UQANBRDHTFX HW SENS HDHCFKR UQZBSE, XMNAC IQFSEUKXB,
QPQ.  MYSF THXKR PMK PESQFSPM QUWSKEPHIW NUEXVARPK UZ LFB.  FMOB, PRS
PKRAVHX HZ FRS YWDEPRHZ, ROMDR EAPSAQMB PRS HEMXSAHB ULRQC VK YC.  MRSPS
HEMXSAHB UDNBINS HOEVHNQS FWHLXQHL.  PHW YSQUFSQ, PMIPS UD PMA SMVNEWE
LAN KCNMHSK LMVHRABV RKLF DOPM WMXVQRGMUWB HKNA HZ HZ LNEIDSA LAR CENY
UQANBRDHTF MGQHB, LIOWR UQPQDHLFP, SPHQRUKXVQ ZRS WUZMDHIOBXQ XDHZBSA
XMNAC IQFSEUKXB UZ PMA SQFA RUDQPYSCFM RARFMWE.  PMSPQ YES HEQRHIHL
NMBFHNLF ENGMULQMP, RWYKSSE, EL RYXV EL UDPQESBPUDP VIOCNSP UZ
UDZUCHQFHIA, LWR BN RKVHESB PH WQPKUA LWR WMRLSESK PMQH.  QU RAKRB PW
UEWRSA PMUDPV DOPMIOG CQUKFUDP FRSI.  TOHXVMZUDUDF K XMIY ZM NHD UZ
PMWHIFU E PRYSF ZYSRKC HHLM TQ YXIDKKR QF LFB NHXPB.

SQXWWR HREXMDLF HEMXSAHB, HVLHSP HSCPKUDUDF ZM AMLFMGK YWHPS.  ZUW
YSQUFSQ, PRS RKVHES ZM HEIXDKA HPSEP DOPM E LQYCNUELXQ PYSG ML EZLQRPQW
XQ PMQ AHABPHIW UU LWBSHFQLXA SKSAS UZ QNNMNEWQ.  UWS RNARCKR HSCNARZ
QNNMNEWQ HV PCQHARWIHLXA YSHSRLDGY.  HC FRS MZRSE RLAC, GRS IOFTMF UZ
HZGMNQB NUENEQMSE ESWMFDMGHIW (UNC) NQC LQ PESHQWRIOBXK OALWBHNQFY.
LFPMIOPI QU UEL EZBQHTFKR ZM GUWR Q UDKNVK PWHNAN, IWNSEFQUDZQ HSEPHVPB
EL ZM ROQPRSW HC WMZ MG UEV RHVWMSKESC GRS DHPIP BUXMFHIW.

AMSPGMUWX HT ANLVUZQ ENHXQ RUWRQCWUDI DUQPKL EX RASF.  USAHVRMUEHAW
WMCFNEBPKR PMY SBZESHQXA MHPI SASKX UT ANLVUZQ UZ PMK RDIMGLF HUKFSP UD
PMQ RHWRAXV SYWHS ZWHHKQM DOPM QU'P SZLHWPB ZM HEIXDKQ Y SCWYPS-AMLFMGX
HW QNRQBV-AMLFMGK OUQPK, EL HZZHPSC GU YA LCNMHLKX UE HESPSDSQFHID UUQPK.
UFKHBROSLNSE PMSEAPHWY RASWMHQC GRS HZZHCPNAMGQ ZM WIUFEES WUPQB.

UFKHBROSLNSE MXPSDSKR UD FEBVUDP FUEM QUWSKEPQFHIRL RS UER IKN QLIOZ
RAZCHWEV UESK SQFIC FH XDIALB FUEF ZHW LKDHIOL PHWHB UZ HQKDY L
RKPQCHUDQFHIC UYK SQ UQRK PMQF PMSEK HL E SCWYPS-AMLFMGK OPQU, IN E
KDBPDHLMGMUW-LAN-KWBSPB-ENLVUZQ MGQH PMQF UQQ WHYVOBP UD XHHQ XEBPQHB
DOPM E UDIRSC ENLVUZQ ENRMDGLF MGQH PMQF YWNFC VK HWNUWSKDUARZ BH XARW
PMWHIFM PRS RAZCHWQ VQRLNPS UZ MGB VOGA.  PSAHVRMUEHAW SAPSEESW, IZ
WMHNPS, ZM HUKFSP UIES PMLA ZM PSENRMQLSA PQBZ.

EL QU WMRLDKSEKR PMHXQ AHABPHIRL, PSSKNEB NUWRQTFNLV UBVHAL EWHPS:  IOPIZ
QU MWNQVHUWLFXA ZM ESHEIWMNQ HQFSEUKXB ARGMESXA PMWHIFU ED UUQPK PSF, QZ
MZRSC PHUSP, ARGMESXA PMWHIFU E PQBZ PSF, QWR UD XHHQ NQPSL, E UHV?
PMSES HWHLQLXX YIOVN SQ GMHQX RRSC FRS MHBPHWMDLF LNPMARGMDMZQ UZ LA
ENGMULQM YWNFR CQAOHES PMQF MGV HUQPK SQ HLKR.  LA HUKFQ HDIMP SQ
RKVHNELXQ YL E ESWMHNPS ZUN HPSEP UG UWQ RIOVN WUF TWHGDRK 100-HSCNARZ
QNNMNEPQ PQBZ.  KFKUA, LO CUWRKESN, KL E HEQNGMNQB UQFPQD, HU L

BRARK HM	GRS ZUESBP.


	[ARPQW HNSLAWI LAW IVUSKW]

HWFLWRI	HB'P ZHBVMVSA PMQF UW XH VUZBSA QNAMKUCFLARQ XWO
	PRIOVN VUEQ RSC? PUEM TMF PSKHDF XWH LMINFN VIXY
	RSN? EWR XUGDDF YWU? YWR, YWIHDF, PRS PMINFW
	PDLAF? QWR DOXV XWH FSEPSSKC PH YDUWX RSW?

UXDGSE	RAMGRSC NLFB FRS IDWVUDSPX HG UG MC AHABPHIC, FRS
	ZHSKCPX WP USE, PMS PUQXV QNAMKUCFLARQ, OQ LHWVAR
	YWIHDF, WUE RSE LHWVAR WMRLARGMDF; LMP BYK DOPM HQ,
	U VIXQ YVUARE; LYK DOPM RSC PUEP BRS XUSKB HY;
	WMRLARZ CMGM SMZM PUEZ CQ HYK ARHIK QQNM IPMSE: MG
	PRLFX LQ PW XIOD PWZN; GHW OQ ULPMSE'P RIOPS LAN KXV
	PMS EKSARHA PMQF NYX HVN VHW SWYFLWR'X RUVV U
	SPFQPQ HFUW XWN, LWR RSES VUSK LAW VHK E LRSHRSEW.

HWFLWRW	XIO UESK OQ WMRLARF. BQP XWHN RYWVUDT VQ PI-UHWWHY:
	PMMGRSC DUVV U UDGDPQ PMK RIAQ YWR LFX'B WMCFARPQW
	ZUXVWYSEV. PW XIO LAR GESFEES LFHKAL; ZUN SWZY
	XWO, MSEQ RIUSP OQ WHLEVUWR.

	[ARPQW SHXLFUDW]

WHLEVUWR	ZIR VKLQ KIO, SCMZRSW.

UXDGSE	LAW KIO, ULHD VHBPSE.

	[YSMG]

WHLEVUWR	I, UK WQYW HNSLAWI, MID OF PDHKSSP HQ ZM PSQ PRSY
	RYEN PME OQYCP UD E LNQNP!

HWFLWRI	HG MB HK YCH.

WHLEVUWR	M GMIIFMP PME OQYCP UEC VYSW DIOWRKR DOPM PMQ RFLRX
	UZ L FHIW.

HWFLWRW	YIOWRKR MG HV, LMZ CMGM PRS QKSP UZ L FKNX.

WHLEVUWR	KDW KIOC SWHPMSE PQXV XWO MWY M DIOCFSEPAMGKR ZM
	XRWZW DRSR US PMIRYC IQ KIOE RLAKVSERMHKZ?

HWFLWRU	YK, YWR PDQYPQC DUWRKEP PMLA PMQF.

WHLEVUWR	I, H ADWY ROSEQ KIO ENA: RYK, 'GMB PNHQ: PRSES NYB
	RASKN EWA PMUDP VH XINRKC LMF PMA PDIMP UZ ZCH WQUB
	LAR NYQLEE'P PMNEXHDUNQX LNEZ IG 'U NQHQ, LEN, YWR
	IXSENQHQ:' ZUW EIOC SWHPMSE LAC IE XHVPQC WH XWZRAW
	HQM TMF PMQK XUIYKR, WU XHUWSE XUIYKR LMZ BRSX
	XUSKR, WH XWZRAN SIXKR LMZ BRSE XDIRSR, WH XWZRAW
	VHPIKR LMZ BRSK YVEKR UWQ YWUPMSE PMS EQYXHW, LW
	XHUWSE ADYR PMS EQYXHC LMF PMQK XHIFMP PMS EQHKRX;
	LAK DC FRSPS RKPDYSP RKLQ PRSQ OKNQ Y FEHD UZ BPKUEP
	ZM UQWSUKPK ROMDM PRSX YUVB NVUCT UDWMCFUDARZ, MW
	ASPS SQ UDWMCFUDARM TAPHWQ HENDHKFQ: PRSK YES UD
	PMK SSEX YNEPM UZ XUSK LAC GRSX YUVB FIZQPRSC; NFNLB
	NQWLMZ FECP PMQH.

HWFLWRM	ZRSE XUEXV SQ UQWSHKC GI-UHWWHN, YWR O DUVX LDK PMY
	NIEQ ZM PMA RHFGMLF. LMZ, M, MIC XMGPQN E PMUDI DZ
	HV ZM XUIY UDZM UEZSUDSPB PREIOPI LAMZRSC HLA'B
	QKSP! XQ XH UORM PMQ HHWS PUEXV M GI-UHWWHC XQ YZ
	PMS RKHPIZ MP UQYCP-RSKLUDSPB, LE OWY UORM H VUEXV
	PMUDQ IQ XWHPMSE UEZSK OR UKLUDZ DUEP MY RHVRSL PHW.

WHLEVUWR	ROQ ZRSC, FI-UHWWHD O NQWLMZ PSDSQ KIOC PHNA UHW WHLEVUWR?

HWFLWRI	H NQA FDGA RU XUWPKC SQ ZMHDAUDZ.

WHLEVUWR	O DUVX NQYWE XWM FRSW LU XUWPKC DMGM HNVQ PLFVDDF.
	ADWY UZ HQ PMAR, ZUC WWY H VHSYE ZM XHHQ FHEHHXY,
	PMQF D VWUY XIO ENQ Y PKCFSAUQW UZ PWZR NUWRQMG: O
	PHQYA DMZ PMHV PMQF XWH LMINFC VQYN E ZIIW HZUDHIW
	UZ OQ ADWYSAKIK, HRLIUMNM H LEK O ADWY XWN LES;
	RAMGRSC RI H FLXMHN ZUN E PDQYPQE SBPYSC MUEC UYK UD
	XHHQ VUZBSA HQELHNK RNEN Y SQVUAP PNIU XWM, FI WW
	XWHNPSFU ZIIW LAR WMZ ZM PDQNQ HQ. SASHKSK PMAR, UG
	XWH FSAELQ, PUEG M NQW RH XPCLAPK PMUDPV: H MKLY,
	VHWNK H NYB PREYS KQEN UXR, NUWSKEPKR DOPM Y
	UQIDDMLA, UIBP HEUZIOWR UD MHL ECP LAW KQP WUZ
	NKUCQLSA. UG XWI NU XIXS EHXLFUDR VU WQYC PRS RSENZ
	EL XWHN PKBPHNQ RDHSP MG IOZ, CRSW AIOC SWHPMSE
	UQWSHKL EVUARE, LUEXV XWO UENWE RSD: H ADWY UDZM
	ROQF BPNEMGX HZ LHWFMRA PRK HV RDHSKA; LWR MG HV
	WUG MHTHXVHLXQ PI UK, HG UF QZSQYC WMZ UDWMDLARHKCF
	ZM XWM, FH XQP RSC SAPHWQ KIOE SKQB PIUHWWHR OOULA
	EL PRK HL EWR DOPMIOF QWA NKDFSE.

HWFLWRH	XHSYESPZ BMIO HR LMXSE HQLAUDPV?

WHLEVUWR	XQ OQ VUPA, D KW; YMHRM M GARRKC RQYNSQ, ZMIIFM H
	LEK O QU Q UKFMDUKC. FRSESZUES, FHZ QIO UD XWHN
	SQBP ENNEQ: XDK XWHN PNHKWRL; PHW UG XWO NUVX LY
	UQWSHKC GI-UHWWHY, XIO PRLFF, LWR ZM WHLEVUWR, UG XWO NUVX.

	[ARPQE PUVGDHL LAR GRSSQ]

	XUIY, RSES WMHQL E XUSKW HT UUDQ YWR L FIXSE UZ RSEP.

HRQSQ	KIOPM, XWO MKLK RUWQ HQ HMNM ODFARFBARSPB,
	ZM PRWY PMA SQPPQC PUEG M DCMG ZM XWO.

WHLEVUWR	M DENA RMZ UG H MKLK: HG MB HE XFMWK
	ZM PSQH RKPHMGAPNF LAN IDFARFBQ PW XIO:
	XWN LES PMSEA PUXXURYC VK Y ULMGUPNF PRSHRSCR;
	XUIY HFUW MHU, BIXS RHU; RS YWEPMHHP XWO.

HRQSK	PWZR VRSHRSEC, GASB FMHX EIOPM ROQF 'GMB PU XIXY.

VHXSHOV	HG MB PM XQ YXV UQRK UZ VHPIL EWR PQENB;
	LAR VU YU H ZUE HRSSQ.

HRQSQ	YWR U GHW FKWAHQRK.

HWFLWRU	YWR U GHW WHLEVUWR.

WHLEVUWR	LAK D ZUC WW YIULA.

VHXSHOV	HG MB PM XQ YXV UQRK UZ ULMGU EWR PSDSMDY;
	LAR VU YU H ZUE HRSSQ.

HRQSQ	YWR U GHW FKWAHQRK.

HWFLWRU	YWR U GHW WHLEVUWR.

WHLEVUWR	LAK D ZUC WW YIULA.

VHXSHOV	HG MB PM XQ YXV UQRK UZ ULCFELX,
	LFB UKNY HZ TELVHUW LAN KXV UQRK UZ DOPRSP,
	LFF LWINEGMUW, NIZQ, LAW ILBSELKWNY,
	LFS UOULXARSPL, EXV FEGMARRQ LAK DHTQFHKWNY,
	LFS FHNMGK, YXV PCUKF, LXV MXPSDSLARQ;
	LAR VU YU H ZUE HRSSQ.

HRQSQ	YWR XH QU U GHW FKWAHQRK.

HWFLWRU	YWR XH QU U GHW WHLEVUWR.

WHLEVUWR	LAR VU YU H ZUC WW YIULA.

HRQSK	HZ FMHB LS PW, YOE LXQUQ KIO HQ ZM XUSK XWO?

VHXSHOV	HZ FMHB LS PW, YOE LXQUQ KIO HQ ZM XUSK XWO?

HWFLWRI	HZ FMHB LS PW, YOE LXQUQ KIO HQ ZM XUSK XWO?

WHLEVUWR	ROI WW XIO PHQYQ GW, 'YOE LXQUQ KIO HQ ZM XUSK XWO?'

HWFLWRM	ZI MSE PMQF HV WUP MSEA, RHW WIPM WUP MQYW.

WHLEVUWR	HEYK XWN, AI UHWY HZ FMHB; 'PHV VUEQ PMS RWYVUDF
	UZ HDHVO RUXSKL EFKUDBP PMQ HWZW.

	[ZM VHXSHOB]

	O DUVS UASZ EIO, UG M DLA:

	[ZM HRQSY]

	O DIOVN XUSK XWO, HG U WMNFC. GI-UHWWHC OYSM CQ YXV ZMPKPMSE.

	[ZM HRQSY]

	O DUVB UENWE XWO, HP ASKD H UQWSX YIULA, LAK D'XV SQ
	UQWSHKC GI-UHWWHY:

	[ZM HWFLWRW]

	O DUVX BQFHVZA XWO, HP ASKD H LEGMLPHKC ILA, LAW KIO
	PRLFX LQ HENDHKR ZM-UIWSWY:

	[ZM VHXSHOB]

	O DUVB NUWPQCF XWO, HZ NUEF TSAELSP XWM NUWPQCFB
	XWN, LWR XWH LUEXV SQ UQWSHKC GI-UHWWHY.

	[ZM HWFLWRW]

	EL XWN FIXS EHXLFUDC, IYSZ:

	[ZM VHXSHOB]

	EL XWN FIXS HRSSQ, HQQP: LAN KV H XUSK WU YWUQW,
	U'VB UYSP. BU ZENQ KIO RYXV: H MKLA SAPZ QIO WMOBLARV.

VHXSHOV	H'XV WUF ZKUV, UG U VUSK.

HRQSA	RHW O.

HWFLWRU	WHW O.

	[YSAHCF]




	EL XWN FDVK HZ


QNG B



BRARK HOV	PMA PHWSPZ.


	[ARPQC PIORMBPUWQ YWR LNRCQK]

ZMMNRPZMRA	ZM-UIWSWY HV PMK HWXUNV NYK, LNRCQK; ZM-UIWSWY DOXV
	RY SQ UQWSHKW.

LNRCQK	D KI WSPHDK HZ CMGU EXV OQ RSENF; QWR H MHZK HG MB
	WU KDPRUWSPG CSPHDQ PI WSPHDQ PM XQ Y YWUQW UZ FRS
	YWNSR. ISEQ RIUSP ZCW ZZ FRS LQDUPRKR NIEQ'P HKFSP.

	[ARPQC PYW FEPKB]

GUEPF TKFY	RASB UQP, MIRABP PKCFSAUQW.

ZMMNRPZMRA	XQ OQ PCMZO, RASB UQP. WMHQ, VHP, BMG, LAN K XHDF.

PSWMWR FEPK	RY ENA PHW XWH: LMG M' GRS UHWVSA.

GUEPF TKFS	PUEXV RY NBEF UDZM'P CIOWRXA, DOPMIOP MYNVDDF HW
	PHMGGMDF HW LEKODF RY ENS RUYEPY, RMHRM ENQ PRS UWXA
	HEUXIZHAB PU Y LQK GIHRQ?

PSWMWR FEPK	U'GKUPM, U'GKUPM; LAC VMZM HA L FMRA, VUEQ ZCW
	IDHPHKX HA L MIEPY.

	XHDF.
	MG NYL E XUSKN EWR MHB XELB,
	DOPM E UQK, LAN K MI, LAN K RSA WUWUDW,
	PMQF H'YC PRS PDYSW NHWA-UHKVN KDR GELB
	UD PMS PHEUDP FHUQ, PRS UWXA HEQPZQ DHDF GMHQ,
	ROAR VMCRV RH XUDP, IQK KDDF K NUDI, KUDZ:
	XRYSF BIXSEB XIXQ PRS PHDHDF.

	SQZCYSC FRS QNESX HZ FRS WEY,
	DOPM E UQK, LAN K MI, LAN K RSA WUWUDW
	PMSPS HESZBQ WIOCFWE ZUVAX RIOVN VUY,
	UD PHDHDF GMHQ, &W.

	PMHV NQWHB FRSQ XKPLA PMQF MIHN,
	DOPM E UQK, LAN K MI, LAN K RSA WUWUDW,
	MIC ZUEF Q VUPA NYB LMF L UXURYW
	UD PHDHDF GMHQ, &W.

	LAC GRSESZUES FQEQ PMS HESPSCF GMHQ,
	DOPM E UQK, LAN K MI, LAN K RSA WUWUDW;
	ZUN SIXK HB RWHDWKR DOPM PMS HDHHQ
	UD PHDHDF GMHQ, &W.

ZMMNRPZMRA	PCNFX, ZIODF PKCFSAHQC, FMIIFM PRSES NYL RI ZESQF
	UQZBSE UD PMK RMGZQ, KQZ BRS WUPQ NYB SSEX
	NAFMRAQLSA.

GUEPF TKFQ	KIO ENK RQRKHSKR, VHD: RY EQTF GMHQ, RY XUBP WUZ MHN GMHQ.

ZMMNRPZMRA	XQ OQ PCMZO, ESP; M DIOCF MG LMZ BHUA SHXZ BI MQYW
	LHRM L UWZVUPR XHDF. ZIC VY RO' KIO; LAK IIW HQWR
	XWHN XIMDSP! WMHQ, LNRCQK.

	[YSAHCF]




	EL XWN FDVK HZ


QNG B



BRARK HB	GRS ZUESBP.


	[ARPQC RIAS PARHIN, EUHARV, HYAHAX, HNSLAWI, UXDGSE,
	LAR NASUK]

NIEQ PSDUHW	WIBP PMIO SQVUKSY, HNSLAWI, PMQF PMQ SWX
	NQW RU YXV PMHV PMQF RS UEPM HEIUHVKR?

HWFLWRI	H XHHQGMHQV RM XASHKSK, LAR VIUQPHUSP WI WUZ;
	EL PMHXQ PUEF ZQYC PRSE OHZQ, YWR ADWY PMQK PAEN.

	[ARPQW SHXLFUDR, VUVGDHL, LAR GRSSQ]

WHLEVUWR	FEGMARRQ UWRQ UIES, ROUVSP IOC NIUFEQM HV HNPKW:
	XWH LYK, UG M VDHDF UD XWHN WHLEVUWR,
	XWO NUVX LSPZMR OSE UW HWFLWRI MSEY?

NIEQ PSDUHW	PMQF YWNFK D, UEK D VDDFWIHB ZM IDSK DOPM RSW.

WHLEVUWR	LAW KIO LEX, ZIO DOXV UESK RSC, DRSD U SCUDP ISE?

HWFLWRM	ZUEZ CIOVN O, DSEK H UZ LFV AUDIKIUV EUDZ.

WHLEVUWR	XWH LYK, XWN'FB UENWE HQ, UG M VY RUVVUDF?

HRQSQ	PUEZ CUVV U, PRIOVN D KHK PMS RION EZFSE.

WHLEVUWR	LMG MZ AIO WI ESUNPS ZM UQWSQ OY,
	XWN'FV FDGQ KIOEPASZ FM ZMHB HHXF ZKUPMUNX BRSHRSEW?

HRQSS	PI HB PRS LQDPKUW.

WHLEVUWR	XWH LYK, PMQF XWN'FS UKLS HRSSQ, UG PRY RUVX?

VHXSHOB	PMIIFM PI MKLS RSE LAW VQYPM RYES XMPM UWQ PMHDF.

WHLEVUWR	H MKLS HWHUHPSC GI UYEQ YXV PMHV UQZBSE KSAR.
	EQSH XWO AIOC DHWW, I NIEQ, ZM IDSK XWHN NKIFMPSE;
	XWO AIOEP, HWFLWRM, ZH WQRKHSK MHV RLNPIPQW:
	EQSH XWHN YWCR, HRQSQ, PUEZ QIO'XV UQWSQ OY,
	HW ASPS ESUNVHDF HQ, ZM RYC GMHB VRSHRSEW:
	EQSH XWHN YWCR, VHXSHOB, PUEZ QIO'XV UQWSE OSE.
	UG PRS EAPHLQ HQ: YWR PNIU RSWNK H ZI,
	ZM UQEQ PMSPK RIOTML EXV KSAR.

	[YSAHCF WHLEVUWR LAR NASUK]

NIEQ PSDUHW	D KH WQHQHSQD HC FMHB VRSHRSEC VWX
