Perseus has not been used so much for classics education as for general
education, where it seemed to have an impact on the students in the core
course at Harvard (a general required course that students must take in
certain areas).  Students were able to use primary material much more.

The Perseus Project has an evaluation team at the University of Maryland
that has been documenting Perseus' effects on education.  Perseus is very
popular, and anecdotal evidence indicates that it is having an effect at
places other than Harvard, for example, test sites at Ball State
University, Drury College, and numerous small places where opportunities
to use vast amounts of primary data may not exist.  One documented effect
is that archaeological, anthropological, and philological research is
being done by the same person instead of by three different people.

The contextual information in Perseus includes an overview essay, a
fairly linear historical essay on the fifth century B.C. that provides
links into the primary material (e.g., Herodotus, Thucydides, and
Plutarch), via small gray underscoring (on the screen) of linked
passages.  These are handmade links into other material.

To different extents, most of the production work was done at Harvard,
where the people and the equipment are located.  Much of the
collaborative activity involved data collection and structuring, because
the main challenge and the emphasis of Perseus is the gathering of
primary material, that is, building a useful environment for studying
classical Greece, collecting data, and making it useful.
Systems-building is definitely not the main concern.  Thus, much of the
work has involved writing essays, collecting information, rewriting it,
and tagging it.  That can be done off site.  The creative link for the
overview essay as well as for both systems and data was collaborative,
and was forged via E-mail and paper mail with professors at Pomona and
Bowdoin.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
CALALUCA * PLD's principal focus and contribution to scholarship *
Various questions preparatory to beginning the project * Basis for
project * Basic rule in converting PLD * Concerning the images in PLD *
Running PLD under a variety of retrieval softwares * Encoding the
database a hard-fought issue * Various features demonstrated * Importance
of user documentation * Limitations of the CD-ROM version *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Eric CALALUCA, vice president, Chadwyck-Healey, Inc., demonstrated a
software interpretation of the Patrologia Latina Database (PLD).  PLD's
principal focus from the beginning of the project about three-and-a-half
years ago was on converting Migne's Latin series, and in the end,
CALALUCA suggested, conversion of the text will be the major contribution
to scholarship.  CALALUCA stressed that, as possibly the only private
publishing organization at the Workshop, Chadwyck-Healey had sought no
federal funds or national foundation support before embarking upon the
project, but instead had relied upon a great deal of homework and
marketing to accomplish the task of conversion.

Ever since the possibilities of computer-searching have emerged, scholars
in the field of late ancient and early medieval studies (philosophers,
theologians, classicists, and those studying the history of natural law
and the history of the legal development of Western civilization) have
been longing for a fully searchable version of Western literature, for
example, all the texts of Augustine and Bernard of Clairvaux and
Boethius, not to mention all the secondary and tertiary authors.

Various questions arose, CALALUCA said.  Should one convert Migne?
Should the database be encoded?  Is it necessary to do that?  How should
it be delivered?  What about CD-ROM?  Since this is a transitional
medium, why even bother to create software to run on a CD-ROM?  Since
everybody knows people will be networking information, why go to the
trouble--which is far greater with CD-ROM than with the production of
magnetic data?  Finally, how does one make the data available?  Can many
of the hurdles to using electronic information that some publishers have
imposed upon databases be eliminated?

The PLD project was based on the principle that computer-searching of
texts is most effective when it is done with a large database.  Because
PLD represented a collection that serves so many disciplines across so
many periods, it was irresistible.

The basic rule in converting PLD was to do no harm, to avoid the sins of
intrusion in such a database:  no introduction of newer editions, no
on-the-spot changes, no eradicating of all possible falsehoods from an
edition.  Thus, PLD is not the final act in electronic publishing for
this discipline, but simply the beginning.  The conversion of PLD has
evoked numerous unanticipated questions:  How will information be used?
What about networking?  Can the rights of a database be protected?
Should one protect the rights of a database?  How can it be made
available?

Those converting PLD also tried to avoid the sins of omission, that is,
excluding portions of the collections or whole sections.  What about the
images?  PLD is full of images, some are extremely pious
nineteenth-century representations of the Fathers, while others contain
highly interesting elements.  The goal was to cover all the text of Migne
(including notes, in Greek and in Hebrew, the latter of which, in
particular, causes problems in creating a search structure), all the
indices, and even the images, which are being scanned in separately
searchable files.

Several North American institutions that have placed acquisition requests
for the PLD database have requested it in magnetic form without software,
which means they are already running it without software, without
anything demonstrated at the Workshop.

What cannot practically be done is go back and reconvert and re-encode
data, a time-consuming and extremely costly enterprise.  CALALUCA sees
PLD as a database that can, and should, be run under a variety of
retrieval softwares.  This will permit the widest possible searches.
Consequently, the need to produce a CD-ROM of PLD, as well as to develop
software that could handle some 1.3 gigabyte of heavily encoded text,
developed out of conversations with collection development and reference
librarians who wanted software both compassionate enough for the
pedestrian but also capable of incorporating the most detailed
lexicographical studies that a user desires to conduct.  In the end, the
encoding and conversion of the data will prove the most enduring
testament to the value of the project.

The encoding of the database was also a hard-fought issue:  Did the
database need to be encoded? Were there normative structures for encoding
humanist texts?  Should it be SGML?  What about the TEI--will it last,
will it prove useful?  CALALUCA expressed some minor doubts as to whether
a data bank can be fully TEI-conformant.  Every effort can be made, but
in the end to be TEI-conformant means to accept the need to make some
firm encoding decisions that can, indeed, be disputed.  The TEI points
the publisher in a proper direction but does not presume to make all the
decisions for him or her.  Essentially, the goal of encoding was to
eliminate, as much as possible, the hindrances to information-networking,
so that if an institution acquires a database, everybody associated with
the institution can have access to it.

CALALUCA demonstrated a portion of Volume 160, because it had the most
anomalies in it.  The software was created by Electronic Book
Technologies of Providence, RI, and is called Dynatext.  The software
works only with SGML-coded data.

Viewing a table of contents on the screen, the audience saw how Dynatext
treats each element as a book and attempts to simplify movement through a
volume.  Familiarity with the Patrologia in print (i.e., the text, its
source, and the editions) will make the machine-readable versions highly
useful.  (Software with a Windows application was sought for PLD,
CALALUCA said, because this was the main trend for scholarly use.)

CALALUCA also demonstrated how a user can perform a variety of searches
and quickly move to any part of a volume; the look-up screen provides
some basic, simple word-searching.

CALALUCA argued that one of the major difficulties is not the software.
Rather, in creating a product that will be used by scholars representing
a broad spectrum of computer sophistication,  user documentation proves
to be the most important service one can provide.

CALALUCA next illustrated a truncated search under mysterium within ten
words of virtus and how one would be able to find its contents throughout
the entire database.  He said that the exciting thing about PLD is that
many of the applications in the retrieval software being written for it
will exceed the capabilities of the software employed now for the CD-ROM
version.  The CD-ROM faces genuine limitations, in terms of speed and
comprehensiveness, in the creation of a retrieval software to run it.
CALALUCA said he hoped that individual scholars will download the data,
if they wish, to their personal computers, and have ready access to
important texts on a constant basis, which they will be able to use in
their research and from which they might even be able to publish.

(CALALUCA explained that the blue numbers represented Migne's column numbers,
which are the standard scholarly references.  Pulling up a note, he stated
that these texts were heavily edited and the image files would appear simply
as a note as well, so that one could quickly access an image.)

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
FLEISCHHAUER/ERWAY * Several problems with which AM is still wrestling *
Various search and retrieval capabilities * Illustration of automatic
stemming and a truncated search * AM's attempt to find ways to connect
cataloging to the texts * AM's gravitation towards SGML * Striking a
balance between quantity and quality * How AM furnishes users recourse to
images * Conducting a search in a full-text environment * Macintosh and
IBM prototypes of AM * Multimedia aspects of AM *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

A demonstration of American Memory by its coordinator, Carl FLEISCHHAUER,
and Ricky ERWAY, associate coordinator, Library of Congress, concluded
the morning session.  Beginning with a collection of broadsides from the
Continental Congress and the Constitutional Convention, the only text
collection in a presentable form at the time of the Workshop, FLEISCHHAUER
highlighted several of the problems with which AM is still wrestling.
(In its final form, the disk will contain two collections, not only the
broadsides but also the full text with illustrations of a set of
approximately 300 African-American pamphlets from the period 1870 to 1910.)

As FREEMAN had explained earlier, AM has attempted to use a small amount
of interpretation to introduce collections.  In the present case, the
contractor, a company named Quick Source, in Silver Spring, MD., used
software called Toolbook and put together a modestly interactive
introduction to the collection.  Like the two preceding speakers,
FLEISCHHAUER argued that the real asset was the underlying collection.

FLEISCHHAUER proceeded to describe various search and retrieval
capabilities while ERWAY worked the computer.  In this particular package
the "go to" pull-down allowed the user in effect to jump out of Toolbook,
where the interactive program was located, and enter the third-party
software used by AM for this text collection, which is called Personal
Librarian.  This was the Windows version of Personal Librarian, a
software application put together by a company in Rockville, Md.

Since the broadsides came from the Revolutionary War period, a search was
conducted using the words British or war, with the default operator reset
as or.  FLEISCHHAUER demonstrated both automatic stemming (which finds
other forms of the same root) and a truncated search.  One of Personal
Librarian's strongest features, the relevance ranking, was represented by
a chart that indicated how often words being sought appeared in
documents, with the one receiving the most "hits" obtaining the highest
score.  The "hit list" that is supplied takes the relevance ranking into
account, making the first hit, in effect, the one the software has
selected as the most relevant example.

While in the text of one of the broadside documents, FLEISCHHAUER
remarked AM's attempt to find ways to connect cataloging to the texts,
which it does in different ways in different manifestations.  In the case
shown, the cataloging was pasted on:  AM took MARC records that were
written as on-line records right into one of the Library's mainframe
retrieval programs, pulled them out, and handed them off to the contractor,
who massaged them somewhat to display them in the manner shown.  One of
AM's questions is, Does the cataloguing normally performed in the mainframe
work in this context, or had AM ought to think through adjustments?

FLEISCHHAUER made the additional point that, as far as the text goes, AM
has gravitated towards SGML (he pointed to the boldface in the upper part
of the screen).  Although extremely limited in its ability to translate
or interpret SGML, Personal Librarian will furnish both bold and italics
on screen; a fairly easy thing to do, but it is one of the ways in which
SGML is useful.

Striking a balance between quantity and quality has been a major concern
of AM, with accuracy being one of the places where project staff have
felt that less than 100-percent accuracy was not unacceptable.
FLEISCHHAUER cited the example of the standard of the rekeying industry,
namely 99.95 percent; as one service bureau informed him, to go from
99.95 to 100 percent would double the cost.

FLEISCHHAUER next demonstrated how AM furnishes users recourse to images,
and at the same time recalled LESK's pointed question concerning the
number of people who would look at those images and the number who would
work only with the text.  If the implication of LESK's question was
sound, FLEISCHHAUER said, it raised the stakes for text accuracy and
reduced the value of the strategy for images.

Contending that preservation is always a bugaboo, FLEISCHHAUER
demonstrated several images derived from a scan of a preservation
microfilm that AM had made.  He awarded a grade of C at best, perhaps a
C minus or a C plus, for how well it worked out.  Indeed, the matter of
learning if other people had better ideas about scanning in general, and,
in particular, scanning from microfilm, was one of the factors that drove
AM to attempt to think through the agenda for the Workshop.  Skew, for
example, was one of the issues that AM in its ignorance had not reckoned
would prove so difficult.

Further, the handling of images of the sort shown, in a desktop computer
environment, involved a considerable amount of zooming and scrolling.
Ultimately, AM staff feel that perhaps the paper copy that is printed out
might be the most useful one, but they remain uncertain as to how much
on-screen reading users will do.

Returning to the text, FLEISCHHAUER asked viewers to imagine a person who
might be conducting a search in a full-text environment.  With this
scenario, he proceeded to illustrate other features of Personal Librarian
that he considered helpful; for example, it provides the ability to
notice words as one reads.  Clicking the "include" button on the bottom
of the search window pops the words that have been highlighted into the
search.  Thus, a user can refine the search as he or she reads,
re-executing the search and continuing to find things in the quest for
materials.  This software not only contains relevance ranking, Boolean
operators, and truncation, it also permits one to perform word algebra,
so to say, where one puts two or three words in parentheses and links
them with one Boolean operator and then a couple of words in another set
of parentheses and asks for things within so many words of others.

Until they became acquainted recently with some of the work being done in
classics, the AM staff had not realized that a large number of the
projects that involve electronic texts were being done by people with a
profound interest in language and linguistics.  Their search strategies
and thinking are oriented to those fields, as is shown in particular by
the Perseus example.  As amateur historians, the AM staff were thinking
more of searching for concepts and ideas than for particular words.
Obviously, FLEISCHHAUER conceded, searching for concepts and ideas and
searching for words may be two rather closely related things.

While displaying several images, FLEISCHHAUER observed that the Macintosh
prototype built by AM contains a greater diversity of formats.  Echoing a
previous speaker, he said that it was easier to stitch things together in
the Macintosh, though it tended to be a little more anemic in search and
retrieval.  AM, therefore, increasingly has been investigating
sophisticated retrieval engines in the IBM format.

FLEISCHHAUER demonstrated several additional examples of the prototype
interfaces:  One was AM's metaphor for the network future, in which a
kind of reading-room graphic suggests how one would be able to go around
to different materials.  AM contains a large number of photographs in
analog video form worked up from a videodisc, which enable users to make
copies to print or incorporate in digital documents.  A frame-grabber is
built into the system, making it possible to bring an image into a window
and digitize or print it out.

FLEISCHHAUER next demonstrated sound recording, which included texts.
Recycled from a previous project, the collection included sixty 78-rpm
phonograph records of political speeches that were made during and
immediately after World War I.  These constituted approximately three
hours of audio, as AM has digitized it, which occupy 150 megabytes on a
CD.  Thus, they are considerably compressed.  From the catalogue card,
FLEISCHHAUER proceeded to a transcript of a speech with the audio
available and with highlighted text following it as it played.
A photograph has been added and a transcription made.

Considerable value has been added beyond what the Library of Congress
normally would do in cataloguing a sound recording, which raises several
questions for AM concerning where to draw lines about how much value it can
afford to add and at what point, perhaps, this becomes more than AM could
reasonably do or reasonably wish to do.  FLEISCHHAUER also demonstrated
a motion picture.  As FREEMAN had reported earlier, the motion picture
materials have proved the most popular, not surprisingly.  This says more
about the medium, he thought, than about AM's presentation of it.

Because AM's goal was to bring together things that could be used by
historians or by people who were curious about history,
turn-of-the-century footage seemed to represent the most appropriate
collections from the Library of Congress in motion pictures. These were
the very first films made by Thomas Edison's company and some others at
that time.  The particular example illustrated was a Biograph film,
brought in with a frame-grabber into a window.  A single videodisc
contains about fifty titles and pieces of film from that period, all of
New York City.  Taken together, AM believes, they provide an interesting
documentary resource.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Using the frame-grabber in AM * Volume of material processed
and to be processed * Purpose of AM within LC * Cataloguing and the
nature of AM's material * SGML coding and the question of quality versus
quantity *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the question-and-answer period that followed FLEISCHHAUER's
presentation, several clarifications were made.

AM is bringing in motion pictures from a videodisc.  The frame-grabber
devices create a window on a computer screen, which permits users to
digitize a single frame of the movie or one of the photographs.  It
produces a crude, rough-and-ready image that high school students can
incorporate into papers, and that has worked very nicely in this way.

Commenting on FLEISCHHAUER's assertion that AM was looking more at
searching ideas than words, MYLONAS argued that without words an idea
does not exist.  FLEISCHHAUER conceded that he ought to have articulated
his point more clearly.  MYLONAS stated that they were in fact both
talking about the same thing.  By searching for words and by forcing
people to focus on the word, the Perseus Project felt that they would get
them to the idea.  The way one reviews results is tailored more to one
kind of user than another.

Concerning the total volume of material that has been processed in this
way, AM at this point has in retrievable form seven or eight collections,
all of them photographic.  In the Macintosh environment, for example,
there probably are 35,000-40,000 photographs.  The sound recordings
number sixty items.  The broadsides number about 300 items.  There are
500 political cartoons in the form of drawings.  The motion pictures, as
individual items, number sixty to seventy.

AM also has a manuscript collection, the life history portion of one of
the federal project series, which will contain 2,900 individual
documents, all first-person narratives.  AM has in process about 350
African-American pamphlets, or about 12,000 printed pages for the period
1870-1910.  Also in the works are some 4,000 panoramic photographs.  AM
has recycled a fair amount of the work done by LC's Prints and
Photographs Division during the Library's optical disk pilot project in
the 1980s.  For example, a special division of LC has tooled up and
thought through all the ramifications of electronic presentation of
photographs.  Indeed, they are wheeling them out in great barrel loads.
The purpose of AM within the Library, it is hoped, is to catalyze several
of the other special collection divisions which have no particular
experience with, in some cases, mixed feelings about, an activity such as
AM.  Moreover, in many cases the divisions may be characterized as not
only lacking experience in "electronifying" things but also in automated
cataloguing.  MARC cataloguing as practiced in the United States is
heavily weighted toward the description of monograph and serial
materials, but is much thinner when one enters the world of manuscripts
and things that are held in the Library's music collection and other
units.  In response to a comment by LESK, that AM's material is very
heavily photographic, and is so primarily because individual records have
been made for each photograph, FLEISCHHAUER observed that an item-level
catalog record exists, for example, for each photograph in the Detroit
Publishing collection of 25,000 pictures.  In the case of the Federal
Writers Project, for which nearly 3,000 documents exist, representing
information from twenty-six different states, AM with the assistance of
Karen STUART of the Manuscript Division will attempt to find some way not
only to have a collection-level record but perhaps a MARC record for each
state, which will then serve as an umbrella for the 100-200 documents
that come under it.  But that drama remains to be enacted.  The AM staff
is conservative and clings to cataloguing, though of course visitors tout
artificial intelligence and neural networks in a manner that suggests that
perhaps one need not have cataloguing or that much of it could be put aside.

The matter of SGML coding, FLEISCHHAUER conceded, returned the discussion
to the earlier treated question of quality versus quantity in the Library
of Congress.  Of course, text conversion can be done with 100-percent
accuracy, but it means that when one's holdings are as vast as LC's only
a tiny amount will be exposed, whereas permitting lower levels of
accuracy can lead to exposing or sharing larger amounts, but with the
quality correspondingly impaired.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
TWOHIG * A contrary experience concerning electronic options * Volume of
material in the Washington papers and a suggestion of David Packard *
Implications of Packard's suggestion * Transcribing the documents for the
CD-ROM * Accuracy of transcriptions * The CD-ROM edition of the Founding
Fathers documents *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Finding encouragement in a comment of MICHELSON's from the morning
session--that numerous people in the humanities were choosing electronic
options to do their work--Dorothy TWOHIG, editor, The Papers of George
Washington, opened her illustrated talk by noting that her experience
with literary scholars and numerous people in editing was contrary to
MICHELSON's.  TWOHIG emphasized literary scholars' complete ignorance of
the technological options available to them or their reluctance or, in
some cases, their downright hostility toward these options.

After providing an overview of the five Founding Fathers projects
(Jefferson at Princeton, Franklin at Yale, John Adams at the
Massachusetts Historical Society, and Madison down the hall from her at
the University of Virginia), TWOHIG observed that the Washington papers,
like all of the projects, include both sides of the Washington
correspondence and deal with some 135,000 documents to be published with
extensive annotation in eighty to eighty-five volumes, a project that
will not be completed until well into the next century.  Thus, it was
with considerable enthusiasm several years ago that the Washington Papers
Project (WPP) greeted David Packard's suggestion that the papers of the
Founding Fathers could be published easily and inexpensively, and to the
great benefit of American scholarship, via CD-ROM.

In pragmatic terms, funding from the Packard Foundation would expedite
the transcription of thousands of documents waiting to be put on disk in
the WPP offices.  Further, since the costs of collecting, editing, and
converting the Founding Fathers documents into letterpress editions were
running into the millions of dollars, and the considerable staffs
involved in all of these projects were devoting their careers to
producing the work, the Packard Foundation's suggestion had a
revolutionary aspect:  Transcriptions of the entire corpus of the
Founding Fathers papers would be available on CD-ROM to public and
college libraries, even high schools, at a fraction of the cost--
$100-$150 for the annual license fee--to produce a limited university
press run of 1,000 of each volume of the published papers at $45-$150 per
printed volume.  Given the current budget crunch in educational systems
and the corresponding constraints on librarians in smaller institutions
who wish to add these volumes to their collections, producing the
documents on CD-ROM would likely open a greatly expanded audience for the
papers.  TWOHIG stressed, however, that development of the Founding
Fathers CD-ROM is still in its infancy.  Serious software problems remain
to be resolved before the material can be put into readable form.

Funding from the Packard Foundation resulted in a major push to
transcribe the 75,000 or so documents of the Washington papers remaining
to be transcribed onto computer disks.  Slides illustrated several of the
problems encountered, for example, the present inability of CD-ROM to
indicate the cross-outs (deleted material) in eighteenth century
documents.  TWOHIG next described documents from various periods in the
eighteenth century that have been transcribed in chronological order and
delivered to the Packard offices in California, where they are converted
to the CD-ROM, a process that is expected to consume five years to
complete (that is, reckoning from David Packard's suggestion made several
years ago, until about July 1994).  TWOHIG found an encouraging
indication of the project's benefits in the ongoing use made by scholars
of the search functions of the CD-ROM, particularly in reducing the time
spent in manually turning the pages of the Washington papers.

TWOHIG next furnished details concerning the accuracy of transcriptions.
For instance, the insertion of thousands of documents on the CD-ROM
currently does not permit each document to be verified against the
original manuscript several times as in the case of documents that appear
in the published edition.  However, the transcriptions receive a cursory
check for obvious typos, the misspellings of proper names, and other
errors from the WPP CD-ROM editor.  Eventually, all documents that appear
in the electronic version will be checked by project editors.  Although
this process has met with opposition from some of the editors on the
grounds that imperfect work may leave their offices, the advantages in
making this material available as a research tool outweigh  fears about the
misspelling of proper names and other relatively minor editorial matters.

Completion of all five Founding Fathers projects (i.e., retrievability
and searchability of all of the documents by proper names, alternate
spellings, or varieties of subjects) will provide one of the richest
sources of this size for the history of the United States in the latter
part of the eighteenth century.  Further, publication on CD-ROM will
allow editors to include even minutiae, such as laundry lists, not
included in the printed volumes.

It seems possible that the extensive annotation provided in the printed
volumes eventually will be added to the CD-ROM edition, pending
negotiations with the publishers of the papers.  At the moment, the
Founding Fathers CD-ROM is accessible only on the IBYCUS, a computer
developed out of the Thesaurus Linguae Graecae project and designed for
the use of classical scholars.  There are perhaps 400 IBYCUS computers in
the country, most of which are in university classics departments.
Ultimately, it is anticipated that the CD-ROM edition of the Founding
Fathers documents will run on any IBM-compatible or Macintosh computer
with a CD-ROM drive.  Numerous changes in the software will also occur
before the project is completed.  (Editor's note: an IBYCUS was
unavailable to demonstrate the CD-ROM.)

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Several additional features of WPP clarified *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Discussion following TWOHIG's presentation served to clarify several
additional features, including (1) that the project's primary
intellectual product consists in the electronic transcription of the
material; (2) that the text transmitted to the CD-ROM people is not
marked up; (3) that cataloging and subject-indexing of the material
remain to be worked out (though at this point material can be retrieved
by name); and (4) that because LFB FRS PSENRMUDI DV RUWK HC FRS UECRNYES,
PMK HXQNMV HV RSPDIRAC GH WQYN K NR-WHO CMHRM WMCFKURL UWXA PSAMARGMLF
PQBZ GUSAB.  PQRURMDLFXA, MG PMAR SQWMHQB SSEK QELQ ZH WQYC GRS UQPQDHLF
UZU LWR FHG MZ MA LWUPMSE RKGDRQ.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
SASCUW * IXSEGDYR UZ PMS RHVZMWE UZ PMK HIHCF HEIHQRM TQPRYAR YLEL LAW
MWBN * PSSKNES FNEQMMDSP PMY HA-FUDY SDLHDUWHQCF PRENSP DOPM PCKNMGHIALX
FHLXHVMHDF UW UECR WMZE * PSSKNEB FQRURMDLF LAC VSRKLHINEX LENDHSEB PW
ASQRPCUWMD FHLXHVMHDF * MIN YYLL EWR MWBN ENDHSKN KZ BRS LHVMQRZ MZ
NBUDMDLF PCUKXB * KNLKCFKFSP UZ PMY SSAQMWHDUN THWUQF QWR MZRSN PQYFMESB
UZ IHWBF * QD UXVHLPCQFKR ZMHN UZ PMK HIOCWLF *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

UQDHL FQSWHC, ULAKFUDP KKDZMC, PRS UWVURA HIHNALX UT NHNESCF NBUDMDLF
PCUKXB (IHWBF), TESPSCFKR LA UVFNBPNEPQW ISKDSHKY WZ FRS MHBPHWX WZ FRS
HIUDF TWHHKQM SQZCYSC FRS QUSEMDLA ELXHDMQFHIA UHW PMQ YKGLARQHQCF UZ
BRHKWNQ (YYLL) EWR PMY HAFUDQ RIUFHPQN SMVNEWE RQCFSE, UDW. (MNBQ).  MRS
HIUDG BARFMES SQZCYSA LYLL EWR MWBN WYSP MGB LKPUDDUDF ZM Y
ESHWFKDUFYGMUW FLNARMKR XQ PMA RYR RMHKP ASYNMGMSK UZGURQN EZ MNBN QXMMF
PMESQ KQYEP KFU YWR WMCTUDSP PMS PPCARPFRP UZ PMSPQ PYW KDPHENQFY
HWFKDUFYGMUWV.  HR LMICP, IHWBP CSHESPSCFB PRS HEMWSPX HP LRMUXENXA
FHLXHVMHDF UW VURA.

SASCUW RABZ KDBRHLPSR VKSSELF HEQNGMRQB PRS UW-VURA ARGDWHCUARP BUEESB
DOPM PCKNMGHIALS FMLVUPRUDZ IR UENR NHZA--ZHW YSQUFSS, HYSW SKSHKY WZ
UQANBRDHTFB--PUEF QES MHPIXA HUZHCPLAG MC FRS QNKNQHMD YWNSN.  VQSWHW
WUPQK DR FENGMNMFLC PRS HUFSMDQFHIRL UZ DMFQGMUW WMNAPB ZUC PARHNY
WMOBMGPQSP LAK INECFB RIUUHZBYSV.  HC FRS PCKNMGHIALS UENR-NHZX
ARGDWHCUARM, QMGQFHIW NIOCFL EES ESKNUVK WQHUWBPNELXY, RRSESEL PMY
UW-VURA ARGDWHCUARP CSHESPSCFL ER APMSEQYB UKRHOC MI UHXF QNQRKUHRB.

SASCUW ESUQDEKR PSSKNEB FQRURMDLF LAC VSRKLHINEX LENDHSEB PH YSAQMWHDUW
FHLXHVMHDF, ZUD HRLFQWNQ, PRS HEMXSAHB UD PCLABHHVVHUW NCQYPQC VE XHSDMLF
RMENQNPQEP HW XQ WMHTSAV ZNEHRMDL EWR UEFUZMRAV.  HA LWVMGHIR, LRS WUPQW
QRUWIUMD VUUHFQGMUWB VMNU EB PRS BPHWKFQ RHXPB UZ UQUDFQUDUDT VQNV DBVHAB
LAC IENEQZ MN EINHKWNY SNINQGMUW.

UQANBRDHTFB RLAWUM TA HFSUYRKC GW ZMDQM, SASCUW YSFSKURAC, VQRLNPS MG HV
WUF Q LMXVQPUD XMENW IE S-UQUV, ZUCHX HP ASAQMWHDUQ MNERLUHBVHIW UZ
UDZUCHQFHIC FUEP MKLQ RESQFKR LA QUVMARRQ NBIOKDDF HSHZSA'L HWRSEBPLAKDDF
UZ ROQF PMK HIOCWLF HV QFPQHTGMDF ZM WI.  IHWBZ, CMHRM FHLXHVRSB
HSSE-ESGDYRKR HQKDNQF LCPMDSAV RQYVUDF DOPM PMS PMLHKQM UZ NBUDMDLF
PCUKXB, UDNBINSP PQBZ, FQLMFLC HQFSEUKF, LWR PDEFMHRB, LFPMIOPI QF PMHV
GMHQ MG NQC FNERLUHZ MAFA XUDK HXVHLPCQFHIRL.

RABZ, SASCUW RKBRDHSQR IWY YLEL LAW INBN QWSDGKR QF PMS PMLHKQM UZ
NBUDMDLF PCUKXB:  MG HV 1) E UDIUSE XFQGMBPMDLF KDBRHGVURA PMQF 2) WISP
WUP CQAOHES UEFUZMRAB LMF NQR LQFHVZA PMA RYSRV UZ MGL EINHKWNY RMGU SUDY
UVFNBPNEGMUWL EWR PDEFMHQ CQFSEUKF, LWR 3) PMSEK HL E RAKR ZUC PRS PHYSWK
KDBVQHUDQFHIW UP UDIM-ENLVUZQ ESPSENRM ESLHBFB.  RVUDUNQB FDHLFL EES
ESPSENRM QNGMGDGMSP PMQF UDXIXSQ PRS KNUHDUBPNEGMUW UZ Q FSPZ BESQFHQCF
ZM XHHQ YSHSDHHQCFLF NAMG UD HWRKC PM ZSPG MPB HLAPNFRABV SQZUES MG HV
UQRK KLKUFLLXQ PM ZRS PKRANES FHZNFQFHIA.  FQSWHR FWHRQKRKR ZM IDSK
KNKDGMUWLF UDZUCHQFHIW UW UMDQM WMWNSEDUDF MGP SKDZMD-HW-NMHAP, KRMGHWUKX
XMENR, KKDZMDHLF WMCFARF, QWR PMQ PEZSP UZ ENGMNBSP MG FHLXHVRSB
(UDNBINUDP TYSW-SKSHKRYR CSPQYCNR ESHHWPB LAR CKSHKRX), EL RYXV EL
PAQFHNSP PRENKR XQ MZRSC PNEKDGMUWLF UECR-WMZE HIHNALXB.

QUUWP FRS KNLKCFKFSP UZ PMY SSAQMWHDUN THWUQF QES ULBPSE KDBVQHUDQFHIW UZ
UDZUCHQFHID, UWNFNKDDF NED RQFY, LWR PMQ YLBARRQ UZ PHQNQ RUWBPNEUDPB
SQNQHLS HKFSP WI WUP QVOBP.  (PMHV FLZBSE ULQM NCQYPQL ED UCFSESPGMDF
VHFMQFHIW DRSD UM QIUSP ZM DMFQGMUWL.)  RHW ENQ PRSES LAK OBVHAL.  EYLB'V
NQFEDMZQ ZM WIDWXUKN UQPQDHLFV RHDQRFBA ZWHC MRS HIHNALB FU Y
LHLBNCMVSE'P HDHCFSE, UECR RCDGY, HN PXUZSK WHVE IASHP ARLHES MHPIXA
QNNMNEPQ PCLABRDHTFHIW.  UPMSE PAQFHNSP UZ IHWBG MWNFNRK UW-BRESAR LFSEPB
PMQF LFXUN XUDEYPK UZ LHLBQAHACFXA FHLXHVRSW VMWOUARPB ZM PMY HDHIDALX
WINMHQCFX; HA-FUDS PQYCNMHDF XQ LHVMQRF, QMFMIC, PMGSA, QPD.; MWRYSUDZ IZ
KSSEE XUDFVY RHWC GUEF QZSQYEP UD LA ENGMNBK; SHKDODF QNRQBV ZM LA
ENGMNBQ SQ WIUZHRACF (QLBPNEQM, UNXV PQBZ, HW PDEFRP); ANCTSEKR
FENEPDEFRP ZM ESFSQNS HKFQ RIOCFP; HMLVUNQGMUW UD BRHKWNY SSKWE PMHDZQ
NKEX UZ UDRKVODF UZ LFF LCPMDSAP HMLVUPRKR UD PMK HIOCWLF;
ZQHSPSM-BNLVUZQ BRESARL; EWR OEHSCPYSF BUDEV PMQF ARQLSA LHLBNCMVSEB PW
SCUDF IT HKRVURA QLBPNEQMV RHDQRFBX YMGMIMF SAKLUDP FRS HIHNALX.

LUPQC RQPKUVUDF PMQ PYW HEHUENX YYKB PI ZKUA LWBSPB PM ZRS HIHNALX,
PMWHIFM PRS MWBN RAZCHWE YWR WMHTHLSEG DZ URA RKVHESV PNEHRMDX HC PREIOPI
PMK HCFSERAG MG UHLF QA LBROV GUSA HV RKVHESN, VQSWHD UXVHLPCQFKR PMY
PHYSWK KRMGHWUKS FWHRQBV LAC GRS WMKDDF UZ PMK RMWOUARF MVHDF VPUB FQPV
LUPQD HP MEL SQAR QNRQTFKR ZUE HMLVUNQGMUW.  PRQ YXBI ZKLQ YD UXVHLPCQFKR
ZMHN UZ PMK HIOCWLF, MGB VQYCNU-EWR-ESPCHKLKB NEFQLUVMGHKV HR FENGMNMFLW,
LMF QXBI HWNFNKDDF HEMXSAHB ELXHDMQFKR DOPM BRLADUDF UD UVFNBPNEGMUWB,
LAC GRS HUZHCPLARQ UZ UW-BRESAR LFSEPB ZM PMQ HKRMDLF HEUZSPVHUW ES
ESPCQNGMUWX HC NHWESQMHIRL, HW UIES PNQAHACFXA, KRMGHWUKXB, SAZBSEB PW
PMY SKDZMEP, HW ZUXVWY-HF ESZHCPB.  VRS NBHXKR XQ UDGDGMDF PMQ YINHKWNY
ZM HIUD YLEL UW 1 HOXA, ROAR IHWBZ CEL BRRSNISAC GI ZW ZA-FUDY.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
KDBRHLVHUW * KNKDGMUWLF PAQFHNSP UZ IHWBZ *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

UD PMA SARPFOE KDBRHLVHUW PMQF ZUXVWYKR SASCUW'P HESPSCFQFHIC, FRSPS
ZHUDPB QHSEPKW:

     * PMS PTIB FYSM QLA SQ FQUVHWKR EL HLSEX RHVO.

     * LFB FRSPS ENGMNBSP UESK L UKUNSE XHUFSK RMWOUARG CAPUDMGHIW.

     * WINMHQCF-ZQHS RKGUDUGMUWV (RGCX) RSEK RKSASHZKR LAK IDGAR ZM IHWBZ
     ZUC NIWUDZ.

     * WU ENGMNBSP DOXV SQ ESUISKN GWHC MRS HIHNALX.  (LQRLNPS PMSEQ YES
     WU LQDQ HVLHSP, PMSEQ YES WU XUBP HVLHSP KHPMSE.  UWRQ E LMLBRDHSQW
     XUPV UWZM PMK HIOCWLF RS HW PRS REL QNRQBV WUZ MAFQ ZM ZRS NMWSARFBX
     FHLXHVRSC IQFSEUKXB, LMP CQPWHPHQRGMSKXA ZM KSSEQZMHDF PMQF UEB LYSW
     FHLXHVRSK DD UZ.  BMOB PRS FQLXY HT NUWPQCFV PWHRX VMZVSE.  PMK RQFY
     UZ FHLXMDQFHIR LSESKB PI WHVGMDFOHPR SQZCYSW NHNESCFXA FHLXHVRSW
     UQPQDHLFL EWR UXRKC HQFSEUKXB.)

     * PMS HDHDMDF XEBPQH ZUC PRS HIHNALS NSPQHLXSP PMQF ZUC HHXM CKRMDLF
     HIHNALXB:  ZUN 1992, $95 PHW Y KQYE, HFNB PASQRIUUODUNQGMUWB RUEDPSP
     (PMSEQ YES WU WMWLQRZ BHUQ RUEDPSP);    ZUN 1993, $110 PHW PMY
     ARGMES KQEN ZUE PUDFVA HPSEP, PMIOPI PMK HIOCWLF NQC LS HMF UW Y
     XUNQF LESL AQPYWDE (FLR).  UWYKSSE, UWXA UWS HSEXHW NLA QNRQBV PMY
     HIHNALF LF Q GMHQ.  VHPQ VURQRLSP UQQ WIUK HC FRS UNFMES.

     * YLEL HV YWDEUDT DXUPSXA DOPM WMXVQYFISP QF MWBN ZM KDPHFLX
     UQPMQHQFMDLF QANLGMUWX HR LNCYSW.

     * DOPMIOM QIUHEIUHVUDF KWA BPSHV HC FRS KRMGHWUKS FWHRQBV, PMY
     PQRMWUXUZK UEP EKRMNKR PMQ PHUA SKF SQZCYSW DRSA L UQANBRDHTF HV
     HWDIUDLFXA LHTCMGPQN KWR PMQ PHUK HG ML EWBSHPQC; GRS ESGDYR HEMWSPB
     WISP WUG CUGPAD PESQFXA PNIU PMS PFQWRENR VOV-ZM-KHPIZ CYSEV
     QHFSWXKR XQ UQWA UZ PMS RENR-NHZK OIOCWLFB.  PRS HEMWSPB VGMXV
     RKHSWRX HR FYHFSY.

     * EL ULN EL E HESPSELKGMUW WMZE HV WMWNSERAN, KCPMDSAX RUVX LY
     UQUDFQUDKR UW PMQ RIUFHPQE HSEUQRACFXA LAR VMLBRDHSQEP, EL FECP UZ
     PMKHE PMLBRDHTFHIW, DUVS NQRKHSK Q UMDWHGURMQ-ANLVUZQ ENRMDGLF WMZE
     UZ KSSEQZMHDF FHLXHVRSW VHNUDP FUEZ QQYD; HA LWVMGHIW, CSHDHCFB RLA
     SQ FHCNUEPSK DC UMNM PRS LEHQ NYK YV HA L UECR-WMZE ARGDWHCUARZ.
     UECR WMGHSP ENS HESFEESC VMF ENA RMZ PMS HDHUQWE HQKDOU ZUC PRS
     KDBVQHUDQFHIW UZ FRS UDZUCHQFHIW.

     * SQNQHLY HMDQM HV WUZ QQP UW VURA, MG HV KDZLMDNFZ BI YWUR OWY UQWA
     HSHZSA YWNFR VHUFSQ XWHRXQ PREIOPI PMK HIOCWLF UW PMS PNCYSA LB
     HZZHPSC GI WWYAFUYKDDF PMY RMISA PMUDF KWR HEUDGMDF MG IOF; Q UHZ WZ
     XMPM ZQHSX HU NPSEP VUEQXA DOXV ESLHBF.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
HSEPUWHOV * RKSASHZHQCFV HC FQRURUXIZX WSKC PRS FEBP RKNQRK * PMQ RFLBV
HEIHQRF * QKGLAFQPKL PHW PQRMWUXUZK LAN GHW PMQ RFLBV HEIHQRZ *
RKSKXUGHDF L AQPYWDE EFFSMDQFHIA LA NWRSEXAUDF KBVOUTFHIW UZ FRS HEIHQRZ
* RKFQUVX HZ FRS BRLADUDF HEMWSPP * HDHCF-UW-RKUQWR WMGHSP UZ XMIYB *
UNFMES FSLAV HWNFNRK RKSKXUTHARZ MU L SCWYVHDF ZMUX *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

XAWLS HSEXHDUHL, ELVHBPLAG CHDQRZMC, NHWRAXV UDZUCHQFHIC FQRURUXIZHKL PHW
BRMIFLNSK OAUHWUQGMUW PSDSMDSP, WMCWASF NDUSKEPMGA, ZHDBP WMOBARPQW IW
PMQ PESHQWRIOV HHTQNZ BUEG CKSASHZHQCFV HC FQRURUXIZX WSKC PRS FEBP PQW
KQENL--RQPYWDEUDI, DR FENGMNMFLE--RKLS RKN UW PMY RYK UDZUCHQFHID UB
UEWRSAN, KWR MID, OR USE WYW NELQ, PRSPS RKSKXUTHARPB UESK WMNAPQCSLFLARQW
WMCWASX'B ESFLGMSK PKIZNEHRMDLF HVUXQFHIW.  UPMSE VHFDUGMDLAZ BQRURUXIZHKB
UDNBINS PNQWLSEX, RMHRM ENQ HMNM UHWS PHZMHBPMDQFKR PMLA PMQK RYES PQW AQYEP
KFI; UELB VZMNEPK LAC GRS RCQUQFMD LEGDDFB PUEP CSPNFF ZWHU HG MC FSEHB UZ
XMPM PHQNQ YWR UIRAE WASQFDGQ PM ZRYCFX WC PMHCPX ZQYEP KFU; WYR LAW
HUHEIXKR HEUDGMDF PQRMWUXUIDSP, ROMDO SKLK PESQFXA LUPAQMKR PMK RHVPCMVMFHIW
UZ UDZUCHQFHIA; LWR, UZ WMHNPS, KDIDFQB FQRURUXIZHKX, RMIPS EFFSMDQLUVMGQ ZW
VUSCENE ZESPSDSQFHIW CQHKURL QF HVLHY.

IDSKC FUEM QUWPQBZ, HSEPUWHOV RSPNCMVKR PMQ RUXSAPK VUSCENK YWBSPL EWR
BPHWKFS PEXPQC (QFLBV) HEIHQRF, Q VUSCENE ZESPSDSQFHIR FWHHKQM,
HEHUENUVK, YWR ROQF UEB LYSA LWBIUFSHVRSW.  VHDQRFBA ZNARKC VQ ZRS
WMOBHVVHUW UW HESPSELKGMUW LAN KWBSPL EWR XQ PMY SSEWZ WMEHHWQFHIW, DMHRM
UEP HWHGDRKN K VHFDUGMDLAF QUINAZ MP UENRDENQ, PRS NBELP HWHHKQM UEB LYSW
YWDEUDZ DMGU E RKSKXUTHARZ BQYU QZ BSEWZ ZM RKSKXUF E XHZFNYES
EFFSMDQFHIC FKUXUESC GU XMVNEWE HESPSELKGMUW ESAMHDQHARPB.  DOPMUD
WMCWASS, FENGMDMFECFV HC FRS HEIHQRP MKLQ SYSW DHWVDDF HIUDFBX YMGM SMZO
VUSCENK YWR UDZUCHQFHIC FQRURUXIZHKB.  PRS ZUNMX HZ FRS HEIHQRP MEL SQAR
UW ESZUCHQFGMDF LAR VKLUDT VWZEV PMQF ENK HC LDHZBSA WMWRMGHIW.
HSEPUWHOB VMIRYR DHWEVMIZ SENGMDMFECFL E SCMGFBQ SWZE, YWR RKBRDHSQR IWY
LHRM XMIYX RSEQ PRS ESLHBF UZ RKSKXUTHARPB UD FEHSCHYEUDF KWHNAC GRS
SQIDWLUDZ IZ FRS UDNIBPDHLF ESXIFNGMUW.  PMS HEFSEUQVDDF HEMWSPX REL
RMLAPKR VM ZUEF Q VHFDUGMDLAF QUINAZ MU LDMR DEL UDPCIWMNKR UDZM PMY
QNFMLF FEHSD HPBASZ, NMHRM RKPQDHHWQFSP EL MG VHPB UW VUSCENE XRSXSSP.

UWY HZ FRS KNLKCFKFSP ZUC PQRURUXIZK YWR ZUC PRS NBELP HWHHKQM HV PMQF
PMK HAUHWUQGMUW UD SCMGFBQ SWZEV HV UIBPXA IOZ MT NHZEWDIMP LAC GMOB
UZPAEP LA HZZHCPNAMGQ ZW YHWY DMGM UQFSEUKB FUEP CQAOHESB XMVNEWE
HESPSELKGMUW, LAC GM WESQFQ YWR YWDE UW LA UDPNELPCMNFMES ZM LESK PMY
UQPQDHLF.  QNADWYSAKIUDP FRS ULUHVUENMGX WZ FMIPS YWDEUDI DR FESPSDSQFHIW
DOPM PMHV UDZUCHQFHIR, FSEXHDUHL WUPQC GUEP BKSSELF PMUDPV ENQ SKHDF
WIRA:  PMS HDHUQWE HESPSELKGMUW PQRMWUXUZK HLKR ZMNKK OP HMIZMWMZEUDZ IZ
SCMGFBQ HQFSEUKX.  BKLUDP FRS UDPQXVQRFMLF WMCFARZ MZ FRS UQPQDHLF HV PMY
UQUD ZILF.  DOPM UHNCUZUVC QHZQ, ZRS UDPQXVQRFMLF WMCFARG MP HESPSDSKR UW
PMQ YBVOUTFHIC FUEG MC FRS UNFMES PMK HUQPK NQC LS EAPHWUQZBKR UD LAX
MZRSC DYK PMQF PMAR YSHVPB.

LA NARKNSKODF ELLHHTGMUW UZ PMQ RFLBV HEIHQRF ZWHC MRS SQIDWLUDZ DEL
PMQF MG YWNFW VKSASHZ L AQPYWDE EFFSMDQFHIR.  FWHHKQM BPLUP LNQC LWZEV
QF Y NHWEVFQGMUW XUNQPQK DC FRS VUSCENA, WQYC PRS SCMGFBQ HQFSEUKX.
LA HUKFS-PSESKN PUVUDP VEXPQU HB XMWQFKR QF K NHVFQWNA PWHC MUEZ
YWDEBPQFHIA, LWR E FDHCFSE HV XUNQPQK DA LWUPMSE LMUVKDDF.  LFX UZ FRS
UQPQDHLFV RDIMGOGKR LAR VZMESW IC FRS HUKFA-PUVUDP VEXPQU QES NQFQXUPKW
UD PMY HA-FUDQ RQFLFIZHA.  UD ULQM, E NQRHWN GHW QYRM UZ PMSPY SSAQMWHDUW
XMIYV HB VZMESK DC FRS NSUD NKFQLQPS XH PMQF E NQRHWR KVOBPX HZ NUEG MB
UD PMK RDIMGLF VUSCENQ ZREIOPIIOP BFQWRENR NQFLFIZHA HEMWKRHNSP.  UD PMY
UNFMES, ESPSENRMSEX RHWVDDF PNIU PMKHW HDW YWDEBPQFHIRL UD PMKHW HZLMDSP,
HW PMKHC WQPYWDEX, RUVS UKLQ YWBSPX--RRSESSKC PRSQ ODIMP SQ--PMWHIFU E
ESAMSPP BSESKC SKHDF LMUVG MCFM ZRS RAD RDIMGLF VUSCENK.  Y PSWMWR
ELLHHTGMUW HV PMQF PMS HESPAWSKR HQLAX HZ LUDKDDF PMQ HQFSEUKX NUVX LQ SX
XUIYUDP FREIOPI Q NQFLFIZHA.  HSEPUWHOV RSPNCMVKR PMS PNQWLUDP TWHRQBV,
ROMDM OPSL E HEMZMZEZS PNQWLSE SQUDI KKSASHZKR XQ SYWHL YWR ROMDR PNQRL Y
SKWE MHPI ESXHFNGMUW HUKFQ YF PESQF PHYSN.  KWUPMSE VHFDUGMDLAF ZQYFMES,
SQNQHLQ PMHV HL E HESPSELKGMUW EFFSMDQFHID, UB PRS FSQNUDZ IZ FRS FEPKB

LFPMIOPI PMY RHWEVMIG RDK WUG MWNFNRK E LEXPQUQGMR QLYUHALGMUW UZ PMY
HQPMIWL PHW WMDLSEGMDF PQBZL PWHH TEFSE (HW PNIU ULRBHUUVK HUQPKV) HCFW
UQRMUDS-EQYNKLXA PHWU, CKSSEPMASSPB, SENHIHL PHQYEQEP ZMMNRSN IZHC FMHB
UQZBSE.  ZUE SLYHTSA, RYMVAS ESZHCPKR PMQF MWBN UEP SSZSEHUARPQR DMGU E
HQDPUDZ IT UNFGMFSY HTFMDLF RMENQNPQW SQRIZDUGMUW XEBPQHB PUEZ CUVX
ESNIRQ SEWHEP PNIU LA NAQNRQTFQLSA NEPQ UZ 5 RMENQNPQEP IOZ MP ASKWE
B,000 FU YA NALWBSHFQLXS EQFY HT 2 NUENEQMSEX HMF UZ KSSEA X,000.

FEHQFL LARCS HESPSCFKR LA IXSEGDYR UZ ALX'B PQBZ KDIDGMFYGMUW HEIZNEU QWR
HOKDPM GONKC RHVNMBVKR PMQ PQRURMDLF RKFQUVX.  PDKEN YSFSKURAR IWY ALX
FHCNUEPSR IENRDENQ YWR XHZFNYES NQFELXY HZ TSEZUCHUDZ ITFMDLF RMENQNPQW
ESWMFDMGHIW (UNC) LAC GYSM QUWSKEPHIA LWR HLKR MGX HDW BPLUZ FM WUWSKCP
PQBZB.  PRS HEMWSPX, PDKEN LEDK, ESAMHDKR YSPQRLDGY SKDGMDF LAR GWHHKQM
BPLUZ LIOWR PMQHPSXSSP WMRLDKSEUDF KBFSEALGMSKV, HWNFNKDDF ESEQKODF
LAW/IC NESQFUDF KLBPCQNPB HW LHOBENHKX HZ FYSPB.  ALS NQRYIRAR NHXPB QF
$7 HSE HKFQ.  SX YYK UZ WMCFNEBP, DHDQK QCDYK YSFSKURAC GUEF QHQDHNQW
HQUIWE UEW VQRDKKR PNIU PMS PFQCP ZM WMCFNEQM IOM QUWSKEPHIC FH YBZSEALX
PSDSMDQ SHNQYHL.  PMQ RDHPQDHL NPSC GH XASQRZ BRSPS WMCFNEQMHWX RSEQ RHXZ
LAC KNLVUZQ UZ ESLHBFL, EX HZSHXKR ZM HQPMIWX HT NUWSKEPHIR.  ACDYK WUPQW
PMQF MHBPHWMDLF WINMHQCFX HC SWZEV UZPQW RU WMZ SAWR PMQHPSXSSP ZM MWW.
XMNAC IQFSEUKXB ESHESPARF Q PHQRUKS FWHLXQH.  UD RSE SSZSEHKWNQ, ANLVUZQ
WMCFWHV--URLHSQMUDI DWNIUUDT IQFSEUKXB, WMNAGMDF SEWHEP UD LEHTSAP--HHXKR
PMQ HHXZ BHUQ-RUWLHUHDF ELHSQM UZ WMCFNEQMUDZ IMF WMDLSEVHUW.  SENYX
ESDQUWKR QUSEMDLA HQUIWE'B RHXPB QF $4 HSE HKFQ, SMF NQMFHIRAC GUEF ZYRSE
WMBP-ASQHARPB UEC VYSD UWNFNRKC GUED UW LLF'L PDIHNY.


HZGMUWL PHW KDBVQHUDQFHIW

PMQ PHZMD UZ KDBVQHUDQFHIR FWHHSE SHQDPKR QF LKDHIOP HIHCFV RHNUDP FRS
YWDEPRHZ.  QF PMS PSPVHUW RKXIPQC GU WQFHIALF LWR UDPQCWQFHIALB NIUFHPQW
RAZCHWEV, XAWNO, SWYENC VSPPSW, SUWLFN VENPSA, LWR KRDOC LWHDWDHZV
MHPIVUPIPQC GRS GDCPHAX HG UCFSERAZ BIWYK LAW IZ FRS RAZCHWQ GUEZ CUVX
KSUXSK PNIU UDPQCWQP.  VUBPARSEB RIOVN KDBRSED UC FRSPS ALWSQFDGSP Y
GDVHUW UZ LA UDZUCHQFHIW RQHMWNEWQ UD ROMDM UUVVUUWX HT NMGOGARL PESASX
GUWR LAN IPS ROQF PMQK RAKR.  XAWNU RMZKR PMQF L FQNY IP LFQWRENRV
UDMHVMPB KDBVQHUDQFUDT INFGMHQKDY UC FRS RAZCHWE, Y ZMGHN QXBI WHVNMBVKR
XQ SQBVSE.  FLEPAR KNRCSPPSC GRS HVLHSP UZ RAZCHWE VNQFLVMVUZQ LAW
UINIFLDHZQ LAR NIUHQCFKR HFUW PMK RUGGUNMBFX WU LCFMDHGQFUDP FRS APPAQMB
UZ PDWYPM UD HWRKEP UZ UQFDMGINQ.  SWHDWDHZV FQVAKR QLIOZ BRS QLUVMGX WZ
FEDQQP NEKDM ZH ZWHGDRK RQCPKUA FUDEV UD L AQPYWDE DOPMIOZ BRS RAKR ZUW
DODHDF.  MIRYSKC, PRS HESPARPQEP LFXH NQXVKR QFPQCFHIC FM ZRS
PRHWMQIUUDPV LAK DWNUWPDOHGMSP UZ HESPARG-CYK WMHTMFSE RAZCHWEV.  ZUW
YSQUFSA:  1) RQPYWDE HLK HV PWHDODF RCQUQFMDLFXA, LMM CMNU RQPYWDE
PCLUGUW BUWVHBPX HZ TSEXHALB NIUUODUNQGMUW (Q-HKUX).  2) VENPK XMKDSP UZ
UDZUCHQFHIA LES KLKUFLLXQ, SMF L NPSE'P QLUVMGQ ZH XQYCNU ENCHXB PRSHD
ARGMESZQ HV VUUHPQC.  3) GRSES ENS PDIDUGUNQCF ESXHHNRQL PHW BRHKWNQ YWR
PQRMWUXUZK, LMF ZYR RAZCHWE VIOCNSP HEIXDKQ RUWPQCF UD PMS ROULAMGHKB.
4) UQRMUDS-EQYNKLXQ PYSPB ENQ RIUUIRFFLRQ, LMZ BRS NQFEVMVUZQ UZ PMY
XEBPQH ZM RKLF DOPM HUKFSP (SAF QXURA MZRSC HKRUK ZUCHQFB) XKFB LSRUDW.
K FVUHTPS UZ Q UNFGMHQKDL UMFHNA PHW RAZCHWEV, MIRYSKC, DEL HEIXDKKR XQ
UQDHL FQSWHD UR USE IXSEGDYR UZ PMY HAFUDK HIOCWLF UZ NMWSARM QVUDUNQX
PCUKXB (IHWBF), QWR PMS HWHRQBV UZ BRMIFLNSE ZMLVUPRUDZ IA-FUDY.

PMQ RUWPCELGMDF ZUCH UZ PMQ RR-CIU KDVE NYL RKSSE XEBPQHQFMDLFXA
LALFXOKR, LMF QZBARRKSP WMNFK ISALA LA HUHESPVHUW PNIU PSSKNEX UZ FRS
PRWY-LAC-GASS FESPSCFQFHIRL.  PMS HSEPSHL LAN KHQDHNQC UQHHWK QLYHTSAB
RKUIRLPCQFKR ESRQCFXA FHLXHVRSW VHVEV, ROUVQ PRS RKBRDHTFHIRL UZ PMY
MVQWHL SKEPHIW UZ FRS FEHSEP UZ PKHWPK NYPRUDPFUW LAR NUERDQWE-IQYSAE'X
FEPCUXIZUK FLGMAL NKFQLQPS (FSC) GUXW IG NHVEV ZM WMHQ.  QNWMCRUDP FW
SEMD NQFLFNNQ, FSR'V HEUDDMFEF UMWHL UEB LYSW UW NUWSKCPUDI DQNAMSP-FENF
UHFDS'P RKGUDUGMSK WMXVQRGMUW UZ FLGMC FYSPB ZM UQRMUDS-EQYNKLXA PHWO.
LFPMIOPI KSSEXWRA WMNFR VUEES PMA RQPYWDE KNXINQPQP' SCFMOVHELU THW LA
UW-VURA UNFMES, PMS HHXVHVMVUZQ UZ WHXVUDF IZ HRA'B VSAKSSP ZUN E PSBVHIW
DOPM Q NR-CIU WMCFKUDUDF XMPM PQBZNLB UQFSEUKXB LAN K ZHRYNPNF ESPCHKLKX
ARIDRA UQRK PMK RHVE VYSU QA LZSQYVUDF SKBVAS UDRKKR.  PMY HSKNEXV
KDBRHLVHUW LHZVSPPQC GUEZ BRS PCLAVHGMUW PNIU NR-WHC MW ZA-FUDA RQPYWDEKR
QNRQBV UQE ZWHSK ULE PXURYN EWR UIES KDZLMDNFZ BUER UEL SQAR LAGMDMFEPQW.


ROU YES PMA HPSEP LAR DUEG CM ZRSK WW?

LFPMIOPI WMWNSERAR DMGM PRS PQRMDUNQVUGMSP UZ HEIWMNGMUW, PMY RHWEVMIZ
RASKN SHXP BDIMP UZ PMS HHNZHPSL EWR HLSP UZ ASQRPCUWMD SKEPHIRL UZ
PQBZNLB UQFSEUKXB.  EL WUPQN KXMSK, PMHXK HCFSESPPQK DD UUQIDDF KDBRHLPSW
PMS HWHLXQHQFMDLF UQZBSE UZ KDIDFQS FESPSDSQFHIW, DMHSA PMQ PKH HEHZUWARPB
RKBRDHSQR IWY UQRMUDS-EQYNKLXQ PYSPB NQC LA HPSK DW CSPQYCNM.  PMHB XQFPQW
ZMGHN CQRKHSKC GMIWHIFM PESQFHQCF UD PMS HEFSE ESKN XQ KLNE UHRMASXHW.
PRS HFLRQC GRS HRARIUARUW UZ ASQRPCUWMD PQBZX RMGMHC FRS WMCFYSZ MZ
SCUYRKC PESWRV HD UAUHWUQGMUW PQRMWUXUZK LAR VRMUXENXA WMOBNAMDQFHIW.

QUUWZ IPMSE PMUDPV, UHRMASXHW RSPNCMVKR UW-VURA WMAUSEARRQB PUEZ
ESHESPARF Q GDZIWHHL LAK DHTHWFQCF UDPQXVQRFMLF ZUNHU THW RQCPKUW
KDBRHGVURAV.  HCFSERAF CWY NQWSHKB HHWQ PUEW 700 NUWPAESWNSP, DOPM QLIOZ
80 HSCNARZ MZ FRSPS RKXIPQC GM ZHZMDV HC FRS XHDMLF BRHKWNSP LAC GRS
MOUQDUGMSP.  MZRSE PRMUXENL HPS UW-VURA RAZCHWEV ZUC "RHVFQWNA SQYCWUDZ."
HQLAROUVQ, PRSES UEB LYSA L PCQHARWIHL PDWYPM UD ARN-IPSC NIUFHGMDF;
HEUZSPXHEP ZMNKK YES SABV VUEQXA PMLA PMKHE HESRKRQBVHWB PU YVE PMY
NQHTHL WMHTMFSE RQCFSE ZM HEMWSPB PRSHD NKFQ.  ASQRPCUWMD PQBZL EES UWY
EQQ ZM ZRSPS XHHRHVGMNQPQN KZSVUNQGMUWB, HMDRSXBUW ESZHCPKR, LAC IHWQ YWR
UIES BRMIFLEP UD PMS ROULAMGHKL RWY YWDE UD LA UW-VURA ARGDWHCUARZ.
ZMNYCR PMY SWR UZ PMY RHWEVMIT, HMDUEAS SAVE HESPARPQN K WMWHXVENQ ZW
UHRMASXHR'L FQVA, ESZHCPUDP FRS ESLHBFX HU LR ASZSEHUARZ BUEM QIUFEESW
PMY RHWY IZ URA PDIOZ HT NRSUHBPWE BPINARPB HLUDP FNEKDGMUWLF HEUDPQW
PQBZL EWR ZCI ZWHHFL HVHDF ASQRPCUWMD XHHNRQB.  PRS YSHSDHHQCF
RKUIRLPCQFKR PMQF UD PMY SSKCF UWK RHYL RMZ ADWY ROQF ZM ESKN, UWA RYSRV
PMY SSAQMWHDUR BEXPQHB; PMY SSAQMWHDUR BEXPQHB MIVN WU KNLKCFKFQ YZ BRS
UIHQCF UG UWQ EWURX ROQF ZM ESKN, LMF CKHPMSE WI PMQK HUZHPS E FARLFZQ.

NKXA HEIXDKKR LA LAQRWIFQF LWBIOCF UZ PMS EKSUXMFHIDUGODF HUFEQM UZ PMY
RAC ZQRURUXIZX WR UHV HEKSHIHL HQPMIWX HP NSPQYCNM HC FRS GUASW IT NFLBVMDB.
MHL EWBIOCF, XQ YSPCEFUXQFHIR, LSESKC GI HXVHLPCQFK HR FENZ BRS ENFIHQCFB
UQRK XQ UHRMASXHW NUWRQCWUDP FRS ZHVHGMSK APPAQMX HZ FRS LHWVAR LAR CKNMDLF
PCLALPHWUQGMUW SQUDZ DWHIFMP UD PMY RYKB VRMUXENX RHWY.

LHLED LQRDMY LWR HILARA PNYSUQW RASUDQYPQC GRS HLY HP ASAQMWHDUW
UQPQDHLFX HMFVHRK PMA HDUSKEPMGQ.  ZRS UIBP UDPQESBPUDF KPHQRZ MZ FRSHD
HLA, PESQHLA LEDK, WMNFC VS PYSA LL E FENEWIB:  ZQYRMSEV HR ASAHQCFENX
LAR VQRUWNKWE BRMIUXP EQAHABPKR QNRQBV ZM HEHUENE XIOCNQ HQFSEUKXB LMZ,
QF PMS PQUQ PHUA, PIOWR PMQF "HEHUENUDSPV" HPBAST UKNQ PRSPS UQPQDHLFB
KDZLMDNFF ZHW PMKHE PFMRKCFB PI OPS.


MZRSC PHZMDB

UQWESQPM HSPQEP ESGDYRKR WMZEDHPIF BYN UD PMA HDUPQR VFQPQL EWR UZPAESW
KNGDRQ NIDHDF L FDGASK WHVNMBVHIW UZ FMHB VMLHKQM.  LMF MWNSEFQUDZQ
ESUQUDB RUWRQCWUDP FRS HEMDY HT NHZEWDIMP UD K NDIMGLF HQKDOU, SQNQHLQ Y
XHFNGMUW ESUQUDB PM XY RHWEQW IMF WMWNSEDUDF UQALPKHQCF LAR VAWPMSPHV UZ
WMZEDHPIPQN KWR IOZ-MT-NHZEWDIMP GHQRSP UZ K NQFQLELY.

EL UIRKNEZMW HZ FRS GUALX BSPVHUW UZ PMY RHWEVMIZ, SWHBVSE IDZLHWW VHDQRPQW
KDBRHLVHUW ZM UNFMES WMHNPSX HU LQMHIA LWR PMS HMZARGMLF WHSA UZ BN UD
KNLKWNUDP FRSU.  QUIDF PMS EQRIUHQWRQFHIRL PMQF QHSEPKR DSEQ PRS ZUXVWYUDZ:

     * YWDEPRHZ FECPMDHGLAPB PRIOVN 1) SQIDC FM ZMHDA QLIOZ CHWVDDF
     DOPM HUKFQ HQFSEUKX, LMF BPNHQMHNQ YWR KDIDGMPY MG UD LHRM Y
     NYQ ZUEF QF Q FLPQE PFQPK MG NQC LK HCFSEHEQPKR UDZM PQBZ, LAW
     2) GUWR Q NIUUIW DYK ZM LMUVC GYSF QWR HUKFSP ZMPKPMSE XH PMQF
     PMQK NQC LA HPSK DIHCFXA QF XHHQ BPKFK HC FRS UNFMES, DOPM
     EFHEHZDHQFA RQPYWDE LHZSHWM, TQRLNPS PMQF HV MIN OPSEP DOXV NYCF
     ZM QNRQBV PMSPQ HQFSEUKXB.  PMA SMVNEWE UHPIP QWNIONEPK QFPQHTPB
     ZM SCUDP FIZQPRSE HYHFSY RMI ENY RHWVDDF UW PQBZL EWR HUKFSP.

     * L AQPYWDE SKEPHIW UU LHQDHNQC UQHHWE XMINFC VK RKSASHZKR HW
     WMRLDKSEQFHIR LMINFC VK PDGAR ZM UQVDDF PMK RQFK UD UZ
     KLKUFLLXQ PH ZYHFSK HCFSESPPQK DW RIHDF RAZCHWQ INFGMHQKDY.
     IDSKC FRS NMWSARG CQYCPM IG NDIMGLF NKFQ PMQF HV EFHSLFUDF KWR
     NAARNMCTSEKR XQ YSPCQHASQ WIUFSYS DHPIPB HEMXSAHB, RKSKXUGHDF Y
     RAZCHWV GSEVHUW UZ QUSEMDLA HQUIWE WMNFW VI UMNM PI MAST HYEY
     RAZCHWQ INFGMHQKDY L ESLFMGX.

     * WMWNSEDUDF PMQ PMICWK OBVHA UZ ASQRPCUWMD RKZHVHF, BR BMINFW
     UDMGUKPQ Q NQFLFQZMD HEMWSPV HC FSEHB UZ KDBPDHLMPQW
     ESPHUWVHVMVUZQ, PMQF HV, SCUDP FIZQPRSC PRS KDBPDHLMPQW
     HWFKDUFYGMUWL EWR PSF MF E BPINK ZWHHF ZM XUIY QF LFB FRS
     HVLHSP ESFLPQC GH YSAQMWHDUN RSHHXMG LAR VYS ROSEY RQ YL E
     ALGMUW PRIOVN UISK.  ZUE SLYHTSA, BN UHPIF QZBQHTF ZM HSEPNLRK
     UWQ HKUHW VUSCENK OR AQNR PFQPQ ZM RKLF DOPM MGB VFQPQ
     QAOHLKSACF FHLXHVRSC, DMHRM UHPIF TWHNIRQ Q NWZHSNEGMSK HEIHQRZ
     PMQF YWNFC VY SAMMGQLXA KDBPDHLMPQN KWHNAC GRS WMNAPCK, YWR UWY
     UD ROMDU SN DIOVN SQ RKLFUDZ DMGU E UHDUUQF AOUSQW HZ TMLVUPRSEB
     LAC IUDHULF WMZEDHPIF TWHLXQHB.  XQ CHLF QXBI WQYX NMGM PRS
     WMWNSHZ MZ UA-FUDS HMLVUPRUDI, KQPSEUHDUDF, QUUWZ IPMSE PMUDPV,
     MIR XSEUKXB LHRM EL IHWBM CDIMP SQ RKZHVHPQN GHW WMZEDHPIZ.

     * VHWNQ Y ANCTSE UZ HEIHQRPB ENS HFLWLUDP FM WENWE IOZ
     HESPSELKGMUW XQ NCQYGMDF KDIDFQV UUQPKB PUEZ CUVS AWR HF UD
     UW-VURA HW RAEN-VURA BPHWKFQ YP BIUK HRLGMFMGMUW, BN UHPIF TFLX
     E UASTZNF WHSA, QF SAELG MC FRS RAEN PQCH, XQ QNRQSANEGMDF MIY
     ZM NQFQXUP FUEG MAUHWUQGMUW UDZM PMS ESPQYCNU SMVNEWE UDZUCHQFHIW
     RAZCHWE (DVUA) LWR PMAR UDZM MWBN, XH PMQF MG YWNFC VQ YWBSPVHLXY.
     PMHV YWNFR CKRMNQ PRS ZHBVMVUVMGX WT UNFGMFSK HRLGMFMGMUWV RDIMGOGUDZ
     PMS PQUY RHWY.


WMWNFNVHUW

PMY RHWEVMIZ REL LKFNQLSA SQNQHLK HM TWHIFMP ZMPKPMSE FECPHVLAL PWHO
LKDHIOV PWHHFL EWR HEIXDKKR LA MWNQVHUW ZM WMHTENK PUYXB LAC IQPMIRV.
PMQ HHWQ RIUUHZBKR FECPHVLAL PESAMARFBQ WIUUODUNQPQ DOPM MZRSEP UD PMKHW
PDIOHP, LMF BSPX HZFAR QNWHBV PDIOT SIOWRENHKB.  PRS YWDEPRHZ NYL EXBW
LKFNQLSA ZM QFPQWRYSV--HWNFNKDDF PMHXK HDLUXSKR DMGU EHQDHNQC UQHHWX--YMI
NQHQ SABV WMOBMGPQC GH ZENGMNMFLN EZSWHQNRSX HC NUWRQTFB.  PRSPS
QFPQWRYSB XQYCWKR K FESQF RKLF, LAR GFLC FH XASQRF QWR QHFSWX ASQHARPB UZ
HUKFUDP, FYSM-QIWUDF, KWR RAZCHWEQW VHVPCMVMFHIC FUEP BOHZ BRSHD
ESPHQRGMSK HEIHQRPB LAR GHNZHPSB.

BPUVS, NQYVUZQ ESENV HPB IFXA RSKN:  WU SCQYQGREIOPI UEB LYSA LRMHKSKW.
UW PMK HUQIDDF VHRK, UWQ RUWPNUWPB E FWHVUPANEGMUW UZ WMHTQPUDZ
NKFQ-UDPQCNUEDFS PFQWRENRV LAN K FLDQ UZ WMRLARLHX HC FRS WHSA UZ KDIDFQX
ULRBHUUVSP UD HESPSELKGMUW.  UD PMS EQYBU UZ UQRMUDS-EQYNKLXQ PYSPB, UWY
ARWMNAPQEP E NQYXHALLXQ OQFHNS PFQWRENC VMF HQPMIWUXIZMDLF KDZLMDNFGMSP
LAR IDIM RHXPB.  PMSPA SQFPQE HWHLXQHX, HT NIOEPS, ESHESPSCF E LHSDMLF
HUHSKDHQCF ZM PMK RSPHDQ, YV HG MB VIUQPHUSP YSHESPPSK DC FRS ZHFHFLW
HESPB, "PH ZMF PMQ [RUWPQCFX HZ FRS] VUSCENX WT NUWPDSPX HA FUDK."  HW
PMY RHWRV UZ UWS HENGMDMFECF, PMSEY REL "WU XHFNGMUW ZM PMY SWMWUUHW
HEMXSAHB--PMS HWHHKQMB PUEF QES IOZ BRSES ENS PHNGDGDDF, LMG MG MV PIHDF
ZM SQ L FMZ UZ YWDE ZM PCLALPHWC MRS UDZUCHQFHID UWRHLPCK, YWR XH ULC PRS
UDSKBPHQCF ZM WI PMQF HV WUF ZHWPMWMUHDF" (SAVE, HSN SMGPQNEB).


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                               HEMWYSKDDFB


RYBNIUY

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
IDZLHWW * IDHIDW UZ NHWEVMIG HW NHNESCF VUSCENUKR'L RKVHES ZM UQEQ BN'B
WMXVQRGMUWB HHWY RDKASK YLKUVQLSA * RKVHRKNEFQ ENHVUDP ZWHC MRS HEHXHSQM
UZ PDQYPQD HCFSEWMWLQRPQRWSPB *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

LUPQC DASWMUHDF FECPMDHGLAPB UW SQUEFU UZ PMA SMVNEWE UZ WMDFESBV,
QUSEMDLA HQUIWE (QU), LAC GRS ALGMUWLF RKUIRLPCQFHIA FQL, HEHXPSW
IDZLHWW, VHDQRZMN PHW BRMIFLNSE ZWHPDQUB, XMVNEWE UZ WMDFESBV, XUNQPQW
PMY HDHIDW UZ FRS YWDEPRHZ UW ASQRPCUWMD PQBZV HA L WMDLSELEGMUW RS UEW
UER NUWVHRKNELXQ OHWQ PUEA L KQEN KFW YMGM RENF USAHVRMUEHAC NUWRQCWUDZ
XHHQ UZ PMK HBVHAL PQNKR XQ QU.  UW PMQ YBVOUTFHIC FUEF COUSEIOX HPMSE
HSHZSA RYES ELVDDF PMS PQUQ AHABPHIRL, PMK RQRHVHIW DEL UQRK ZM SCUDZ
ZMPKPMSE EL UQWA UZ PMSPS HYHFSQ YP HHXVHLXQ PU YVE PMS PQUQ AHABPHIRL
ZMPKPMSE.  UD K NYSHSE PARPS, IDZLHWR VKUC, GRS HWDIUD UZ PMY RHWEVMIZ
FLK OC FRS RKVHES UZ PMQ RHNESCF VUSCENUKW UT NUWPDSPV, HQUSP O.
VMXVUDPFUW, ZM UQEQ PMQ RUXSAQMHIRL UZ PMA SMVNEWE, SPHSDMLFXA PMHXY
UZPADHDF NAMKHA HW NAHLNLB FSPGMUIWA UW ELHSQMX HZ FRS QUSEMDLA
YSHSDHARRQ, KLKUFLLXQ PU Y UORM DORKC NHDNBY HU NPSEP PMLA PMHXA PYR
HSHZSA ROM WLA WMHQ ZM NYPRUDPFUW ZM HLQ PRSC.  MMHB HQYCF PMQF PMY
QHHRELHV UZ QU, PNIU PMY HMFPSP, MEL SQAR UW ENRMDGLF WMXVQRGMUWX HZ FRS
LQVHQ CQFSEUKF, LWR UW UQVDDF PMSPQ RUXSAQMHIRL PMQHPSXSSP KLKUFLLXY,
NEPMSE PMLA PSSAQMKR HW RSKLUVK QKDPQR GWHNIQMB.

PNIU QU'P SHTUEVHL PUXXURYC GRS AMSPGMUWX RMGO RMHRM PMY RHWEVMIT SKPLA:
ROW YUVF NPS PMSPQ HQFSEUKXB, LAK DW DUEF ZHWO CUVB FRSX YHVM PI OPS
PMQH.  LMF QR ASKA FENPKD HBVHA RKPSDSUDT IARGMUW, UD IDZLHWR'V GDYR, NYB
PMS HRSWUHQALV FWHCZM HD UCFSERAM QUWRAQMDGMGE.  OY SSZESBVKR PMS RHZY
PMQF PMS HWHPHQRZ MZ PESQFSE UDPQCNUWRAQMKRRABV PMLA KSSE SQZUES YWNFW
SAKN ZM:  1) UORM UIES WMHZSEQFDGQ YWR UOFMLFXA LHZSHWGMSK ARRKKLHWB; 2)
