be used with some sort of a document feeder, but because of this
application that is not feasible.  Further, because CLASS is a
preservation application, after the paper replacement is made there, a
very careful quality control check is performed.  An original book is
compared to the printed copy and verification is made, before proceeding,
that all of the image, all of the information, has been captured.  Then,
a new library book is produced:  The printed images are rebound by a
commercial binder and a new book is returned to the shelf.
Significantly, the books returned to the library shelves are beautiful
and useful replacements on acid-free paper that should last a long time,
in effect, the equivalent of preservation photocopies.  Thus, the project
has a library of digital books.  In essence, CLASS is scanning and
storing books as 600 dot-per-inch bit-mapped images, compressed using
Group 4 CCITT (i.e., the French acronym for International Consultative
Committee for Telegraph and Telephone) compression.  They are stored as
TIFF files on an optical filing system that is composed of a database
used for searching and locating the books and an optical jukebox that
stores 64 twelve-inch platters.  A very-high-resolution printed copy of
these books at 600 dots per inch is created, using a Xerox DocuTech
printer to make the paper replacements on acid-free paper.

PERSONIUS maintained that the CLASS Project presents an opportunity to
introduce people to books as digital images by using a paper medium.
Books are returned to the shelves while people are also given the ability
to print on demand--to make their own copies of books.  (PERSONIUS
distributed copies of an engineering journal published by engineering
students at Cornell around 1900 as an example of what a print-on-demand
copy of material might be like.  This very cheap copy would be available
to people to use for their own research purposes and would bridge the gap
between an electronic work and the paper that readers like to have.)
PERSONIUS then attempted to illustrate a very early prototype of
networked access to this digital library.  Xerox Corporation has
developed a prototype of a view station that can send images across the
network to be viewed.

The particular library brought down for demonstration contained two
mathematics books.  CLASS is developing and will spend the next year
developing an application that allows people at workstations to browse
the books.  Thus, CLASS is developing a browsing tool, on the assumption
that users do not want to read an entire book from a workstation, but
would prefer to be able to look through and decide if they would like to
have a printed copy of it.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Re retrieval software * "Digital file copyright" * Scanning
rate during production * Autosegmentation * Criteria employed in
selecting books for scanning * Compression and decompression of images *
OCR not precluded *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the question-and-answer period that followed her presentation,
PERSONIUS made these additional points:

     * Re retrieval software, Cornell is developing a Unix-based server
     as well as clients for the server that support multiple platforms
     (Macintosh, IBM and Sun workstations), in the hope that people from
     any of those platforms will retrieve books; a further operating
     assumption is that standard interfaces will be used as much as
     possible, where standards can be put in place, because CLASS
     considers this retrieval software a library application and would
     like to be able to look at material not only at Cornell but at other
     institutions.

     * The phrase "digital file copyright by Cornell University" was
     added at the advice of Cornell's legal staff with the caveat that it
     probably would not hold up in court.  Cornell does not want people
     to copy its books and sell them but would like to keep them
     available for use in a library environment for library purposes.

     * In production the scanner can scan about 300 pages per hour,
     capturing 600 dots per inch.

     * The Xerox software has filters to scan halftone material and avoid
     the moire patterns that occur when halftone material is scanned.
     Xerox has been working on hardware and software that would enable
     the scanner itself to recognize this situation and deal with it
     appropriately--a kind of autosegmentation that would enable the
     scanner to handle halftone material as well as text on a single page.

     * The books subjected to the elaborate process described above were
     selected because CLASS is a preservation project, with the first 500
     books selected coming from Cornell's mathematics collection, because
     they were still being heavily used and because, although they were
     in need of preservation, the mathematics library and the mathematics
     faculty were uncomfortable having them microfilmed.  (They wanted a
     printed copy.)  Thus, these books became a logical choice for this
     project.  Other books were chosen by the project's selection committees
     for experiments with the technology, as well as to meet a demand or need.

     * Images will be decompressed before they are sent over the line; at
     this time they are compressed and sent to the image filing system
     and then sent to the printer as compressed images; they are returned
     to the workstation as compressed 600-dpi images and the workstation
     decompresses and scales them for display--an inefficient way to
     access the material though it works quite well for printing and
     other purposes.

     * CLASS is also decompressing on Macintosh and IBM, a slow process
     right now.  Eventually, compression and decompression will take
     place on an image conversion server.  Trade-offs will be made, based
     on future performance testing, concerning where the file is
     compressed and what resolution image is sent.

     * OCR has not been precluded; images are being stored that have been
     scanned at a high resolution, which presumably would suit them well
     to an OCR process.  Because the material being scanned is about 100
     years old and was printed with less-than-ideal technologies, very
     early and preliminary tests have not produced good results.  But the
     project is capturing an image that is of sufficient resolution to be
     subjected to OCR in the future.  Moreover, the system architecture
     and the system plan have a logical place to store an OCR image if it
     has been captured.  But that is not being done now.

                                 ******

SESSION III.  DISTRIBUTION, NETWORKS, AND NETWORKING:  OPTIONS FOR
DISSEMINATION

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
ZICH * Issues pertaining to CD-ROMs * Options for publishing in CD-ROM *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Robert ZICH, special assistant to the associate librarian for special
projects, Library of Congress, and moderator of this session, first noted
the blessed but somewhat awkward circumstance of having four very
distinguished people representing networks and networking or at least
leaning in that direction, while lacking anyone to speak from the
strongest possible background in CD-ROMs.  ZICH expressed the hope that
members of the audience would join the discussion.  He stressed the
subtitle of this particular session, "Options for Dissemination," and,
concerning CD-ROMs, the importance of determining when it would be wise
to consider dissemination in CD-ROM versus networks.  A shopping list of
issues pertaining to CD-ROMs included:  the grounds for selecting
commercial publishers, and in-house publication where possible versus
nonprofit or government publication.  A similar list for networks
included:  determining when one should consider dissemination through a
network, identifying the mechanisms or entities that exist to place items
on networks, identifying the pool of existing networks, determining how a
producer  would choose between networks, and identifying the elements of
a business arrangement in a network.

Options for publishing in CD-ROM:  an outside publisher versus
self-publication.  If an outside publisher is used, it can be nonprofit,
such as the Government Printing Office (GPO) or the National Technical
Information Service (NTIS), in the case of government.  The pros and cons
associated with employing an outside publisher are obvious.  Among the
pros, there is no trouble getting accepted.  One pays the bill and, in
effect, goes one's way.  Among the cons, when one pays an outside
publisher to perform the work, that publisher will perform the work it is
obliged to do, but perhaps without the production expertise and skill in
marketing and dissemination that some would seek.  There is the body of
commercial publishers that do possess that kind of expertise in
distribution and marketing but that obviously are selective.  In
self-publication, one exercises full control, but then one must handle
matters such as distribution and marketing.  Such are some of the options
for publishing in the case of CD-ROM.

In the case of technical and design issues, which are also important,
there are many matters which many at the Workshop already knew a good
deal about:  retrieval system requirements and costs, what to do about
images, the various capabilities and platforms, the trade-offs between
cost and performance, concerns about local-area networkability,
interoperability, etc.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
LYNCH * Creating networked information is different from using networks
as an access or dissemination vehicle * Networked multimedia on a large
scale does not yet work * Typical CD-ROM publication model a two-edged
sword * Publishing information on a CD-ROM in the present world of
immature standards * Contrast between CD-ROM and network pricing *
Examples demonstrated earlier in the day as a set of insular information
gems * Paramount need to link databases * Layering to become increasingly
necessary * Project NEEDS and the issues of information reuse and active
versus passive use * X-Windows as a way of differentiating between
network access and networked information * Barriers to the distribution
of networked multimedia information * Need for good, real-time delivery
protocols * The question of presentation integrity in client-server
computing in the academic world * Recommendations for producing multimedia
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Clifford LYNCH, director, Library Automation, University of California,
opened his talk with the general observation that networked information
constituted a difficult and elusive topic because it is something just
starting to develop and not yet fully understood.  LYNCH contended that
creating genuinely networked information was different from using
networks as an access or dissemination vehicle and was more sophisticated
and more subtle.  He invited the members of the audience to extrapolate,
from what they heard about the preceding demonstration projects, to what
sort of a world of electronics information--scholarly, archival,
cultural, etc.--they wished to end up with ten or fifteen years from now.
LYNCH suggested that to extrapolate directly from these projects would
produce unpleasant results.

Putting the issue of CD-ROM in perspective before getting into
generalities on networked information, LYNCH observed that those engaged
in multimedia today who wish to ship a product, so to say, probably do
not have much choice except to use CD-ROM:  networked multimedia on a
large scale basically does not yet work because the technology does not
exist.  For example, anybody who has tried moving images around over the
Internet knows that this is an exciting touch-and-go process, a
fascinating and fertile area for experimentation, research, and
development, but not something that one can become deeply enthusiastic
about committing to production systems at this time.

This situation will change, LYNCH said.  He differentiated CD-ROM from
the practices that have been followed up to now in distributing data on
CD-ROM.  For LYNCH the problem with CD-ROM is not its portability or its
slowness but the two-edged sword of having the retrieval application and
the user interface inextricably bound up with the data, which is the
typical CD-ROM publication model.  It is not a case of publishing data
but of distributing a typically stand-alone, typically closed system,
all--software, user interface, and data--on a little disk.  Hence, all
the between-disk navigational issues as well as the impossibility in most
cases of integrating data on one disk with that on another.  Most CD-ROM
retrieval software does not network very gracefully at present.  However,
in the present world of immature standards and lack of understanding of
what network information is or what the ground rules are for creating or
using it, publishing information on a CD-ROM does add value in a very
real sense.

LYNCH drew a contrast between CD-ROM and network pricing and in doing so
highlighted something bizarre in information pricing.  A large
institution such as the University of California has vendors who will
offer to sell information on CD-ROM for a price per year in four digits,
but for the same data (e.g., an abstracting and indexing database) on
magnetic tape, regardless of how many people may use it concurrently,
will quote a price in six digits.

What is packaged with the CD-ROM in one sense adds value--a complete
access system, not just raw, unrefined information--although it is not
generally perceived that way.  This is because the access software,
although it adds value, is viewed by some people, particularly in the
university environment where there is a very heavy commitment to
networking, as being developed in the wrong direction.

Given that context, LYNCH described the examples demonstrated as a set of
insular information gems--Perseus, for example, offers nicely linked
information, but would be very difficult to integrate with other
databases, that is, to link together seamlessly with other source files
from other sources.  It resembles an island, and in this respect is
similar to numerous stand-alone projects that are based on videodiscs,
that is, on the single-workstation concept.

As scholarship evolves in a network environment, the paramount need will
be to link databases.  We must link personal databases to public
databases, to group databases, in fairly seamless ways--which is
extremely difficult in the environments under discussion with copies of
databases proliferating all over the place.

The notion of layering also struck LYNCH as lurking in several of the
projects demonstrated.  Several databases in a sense constitute
information archives without a significant amount of navigation built in.
Educators, critics, and others will want a layered structure--one that
defines or links paths through the layers to allow users to reach
specific points.  In LYNCH's view, layering will become increasingly
necessary, and not just within a single resource but across resources
(e.g., tracing mythology and cultural themes across several classics
databases as well as a database of Renaissance culture).  This ability to
organize resources, to build things out of multiple other things on the
network or select pieces of it, represented for LYNCH one of the key
aspects of network information.

Contending that information reuse constituted another significant issue,
LYNCH commended to the audience's attention Project NEEDS (i.e., National
Engineering Education Delivery System).  This project's objective is to
produce a database of engineering courseware as well as the components
that can be used to develop new courseware.  In a number of the existing
applications, LYNCH said, the issue of reuse (how much one can take apart
and reuse in other applications) was not being well considered.  He also
raised the issue of active versus passive use, one aspect of which  is
how much information will be manipulated locally by users.  Most people,
he argued, may do a little browsing and then will wish to print.  LYNCH
was uncertain how these resources would be used by the vast majority of
users in the network environment.

LYNCH next said a few words about X-Windows as a way of differentiating
between network access and networked information.  A number of the
applications demonstrated at the Workshop could be rewritten to use X
across the network, so that one could run them from any X-capable device-
-a workstation, an X terminal--and transact with a database across the
network.  Although this opens up access a little, assuming one has enough
network to handle it, it does not provide an interface to develop a
program that conveniently integrates information from multiple databases.
X is a viewing technology that has limits.  In a real sense, it is just a
graphical version of remote log-in across the network.  X-type applications
represent only one step in the progression towards real access.

LYNCH next discussed barriers to the distribution of networked multimedia
information.  The heart of the problem is a lack of standards to provide
the ability for computers to talk to each other, retrieve information,
and shuffle it around fairly casually.  At the moment, little progress is
being made on standards for networked information; for example, present
standards do not cover images, digital voice, and digital video.  A
useful tool kit of exchange formats for basic texts is only now being
assembled.  The synchronization of content streams (i.e., synchronizing a
voice track to a video track, establishing temporal relations between
different components in a multimedia object) constitutes another issue
for networked multimedia that is just beginning to receive attention.

Underlying network protocols also need some work; good, real-time
delivery protocols on the Internet do not yet exist.  In LYNCH's view,
highly important in this context is the notion of networked digital
object IDs, the ability of one object on the network to point to another
object (or component thereof) on the network.  Serious bandwidth issues
also exist.  LYNCH was uncertain if billion-bit-per-second networks would
prove sufficient if numerous people ran video in parallel.

LYNCH concluded by offering an issue for database creators to consider,
as well as several comments about what might constitute good trial
multimedia experiments.  In a networked information world the database
builder or service builder (publisher) does not exercise the same
extensive control over the integrity of the presentation; strange
programs "munge" with one's data before the user sees it.  Serious
thought must be given to what guarantees integrity of presentation.  Part
of that is related to where one draws the boundaries around a networked
information service.  This question of presentation integrity in
client-server computing has not been stressed enough in the academic
world, LYNCH argued, though commercial service providers deal with it
regularly.

Concerning multimedia, LYNCH observed that good multimedia at the moment
is hideously expensive to produce.  He recommended producing multimedia
with either very high sale value, or multimedia with a very long life
span, or multimedia that will have a very broad usage base and whose
costs therefore can be amortized among large numbers of users.  In this
connection, historical and humanistically oriented material may be a good
place to start, because it tends to have a longer life span than much of
the scientific material, as well as a wider user base.  LYNCH noted, for
example, that American Memory fits many of the criteria outlined.  He
remarked the extensive discussion about bringing the Internet or the
National Research and Education Network (NREN) into the K-12 environment
as a way of helping the American educational system.

LYNCH closed by noting that the kinds of applications demonstrated struck
him as excellent justifications of broad-scale networking for K-12, but
that at this time no "killer" application exists to mobilize the K-12
community to obtain connectivity.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Dearth of genuinely interesting applications on the network
a slow-changing situation * The issue of the integrity of presentation in
a networked environment * Several reasons why CD-ROM software does not
network *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the discussion period that followed LYNCH's presentation, several
additional points were made.

LYNCH reiterated even more strongly his contention that, historically,
once one goes outside high-end science and the group of those who need
access to supercomputers, there is a great dearth of genuinely
interesting applications on the network.  He saw this situation changing
slowly, with some of the scientific databases and scholarly discussion
groups and electronic journals coming on as well as with the availability
of Wide Area Information Servers (WAIS) and some of the databases that
are being mounted there.  However, many of those things do not seem to
have piqued great popular interest.  For instance, most high school
students of LYNCH's acquaintance would not qualify as devotees of serious
molecular biology.

Concerning the issue of the integrity of presentation, LYNCH believed
that a couple of information providers have laid down the law at least on
certain things.  For example, his recollection was that the National
Library of Medicine feels strongly that one needs to employ the
identifier field if he or she is to mount a database commercially.  The
problem with a real networked environment is that one does not know who
is reformatting and reprocessing one's data when one enters a client
server mode.  It becomes anybody's guess, for example, if the network
uses a Z39.50 server, or what clients are doing with one's data.  A data
provider can say that his contract will only permit clients to have
access to his data after he vets them and their presentation and makes
certain it suits him.  But LYNCH held out little expectation that the
network marketplace would evolve in that way, because it required too
much prior negotiation.

CD-ROM software does not network for a variety of reasons, LYNCH said.
He speculated that CD-ROM publishers are not eager to have their products
really hook into wide area networks, because they fear it will make their
data suppliers nervous.  Moreover, until relatively recently, one had to
be rather adroit to run a full TCP/IP stack plus applications on a
PC-size machine, whereas nowadays it is becoming easier as PCs grow
bigger and faster.  LYNCH also speculated that software providers had not
heard from their customers until the last year or so, or had not heard
from enough of their customers.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
BESSER * Implications of disseminating images on the network; planning
the distribution of multimedia documents poses two critical
implementation problems * Layered approach represents the way to deal
with users' capabilities * Problems in platform design; file size and its
implications for networking * Transmission of megabyte size images
impractical * Compression and decompression at the user's end * Promising
trends for compression * A disadvantage of using X-Windows * A project at
the Smithsonian that mounts images on several networks *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Howard BESSER, School of Library and Information Science, University of
Pittsburgh, spoke primarily about multimedia, focusing on images and the
broad implications of disseminating them on the network.  He argued that
planning the distribution of multimedia documents posed two critical
implementation problems, which he framed in the form of two questions:
1) What platform will one use and what hardware and software will users
have for viewing of the material?  and 2) How can one deliver a
sufficiently robust set of information in an accessible format in a
reasonable amount of time?  Depending on whether network or CD-ROM is the
medium used, this question raises different issues of storage,
compression, and transmission.

Concerning the design of platforms (e.g., sound, gray scale, simple
color, etc.) and the various capabilities users may have, BESSER
maintained that a layered approach was the way to deal with users'
capabilities.  A result would be that users with less powerful
workstations would simply have less functionality.  He urged members of
the audience to advocate standards and accompanying software that handle
layered functionality across a wide variety of platforms.

BESSER also addressed problems in platform design, namely, deciding how
large a machine to design for situations when the largest number of users
have the lowest level of the machine, and one desires higher
functionality.  BESSER then proceeded to the question of file size and
its implications for networking.  He discussed still images in the main.
For example, a digital color image that fills the screen of a standard
mega-pel workstation (Sun or Next) will require one megabyte of storage
for an eight-bit image or three megabytes of storage for a true color or
twenty-four-bit image.  Lossless compression algorithms (that is,
computational procedures in which no data is lost in the process of
compressing [and decompressing] an image--the exact bit-representation is
maintained) might bring storage down to a third of a megabyte per image,
but not much further than that.  The question of size makes it difficult
to fit an appropriately sized set of these images on a single disk or to
transmit them quickly enough on a network.

With these full screen mega-pAS HUKFSP PMQF WMRLGMFMPQ Q FMHCR UZ Y
HQFKXQPQ, UWK PQPL 1,000-3,000 PNFX-BNCYSD UUQPKX HA L UWK-PDIQLQZK RHVY;
E LFQWRENR NR-CIU ESHESPARPB EFHEWZHUQFASE 60 ZSERQCF UZ PMQF.  BPHWUDZ
HUKFSP PMS POGY HU L TR BRESAR (HOBP 8 VMM QUXHW) UDNCQYPSB VZMNEPK
NQFEDMZQ ZM 4,000-12,000 HUKFSP HSD PDIQLQZS; 60 HSERQCF UZ PMQF IDSKB
UWQ PRS VHPY UZ Q NR-CIU, ROMDM HC FHNW NESQFSP Q UKUHW HEMXSAU.  IRA
NQWLMZ UESK UNXV-BRESAR, UNXV-WMXUD HUQPKX RMGU SHXBXSPB RIUHESPVHUW; UWY
UOBP WMHTESBV PMQH HW HLQ Y XURYW SSPUXMFHIA.  UHW HQFKXQPQ-VHPY HUKFSP,
LAQZMHDF BXWYSE PMLA Q F-1 PHYSK DV HHTNEQMMDLF.  ZUE SLYHTSA, UW Y
GUZFE-XOV-VDXULQIN VURA, MG FQEQB PREYS UHANPQB PM ZNERLPAN E
UWQ-HKPQLQZA PUVK, HG UG ML RMZ WMHTESBVKR; LAC GMHB VHSKR ELLHHQV HRKLF
DMCNOUBPLARQL (RW ZPMSE HLSE WMCFARKDDF ZUC WQPYWDE LQWRDOCGM).  PMOB,
AMSPGMUWX HG NHVE YWBSPP, EQHMZK RHVFSYK, LAR NHNESCF PQSAHRUWY
WMWLQRGMUW PHYSC IYEQ PNERLUHBVHIW UT UKPQLQZS-POGK HUQPKV HHTNEQMMDLF.

SQBVSE PMAR KDBRHLPSR DYKB PI WQYX NMGM PRSPS FLDPK HUQPKL, PHW YSQUFSY,
WMHTESBVHIA LWR RKWMHTESBVHIA LZ BRS HLSE'P SWR.  UD PMHV WMWLQRGMUW, PMY
HVLHSP UZ MIC OMNM IRA HV DOXVUDP FU XHXK HC FRS WMHTESBVHIR FWHRQBV LAW
ROQF HUKFQ ANLVUZQ UWA RYSRV UD PMA PHDBP FSQNQ YES NAADWYC.  LMF ROQF HV
ADWYD UB PUEM QIUHESPVHUW ARFQUVB VIUA SHXX HG NQFQ.  LSPPSN HDPKR PMQF
UIES BPINHKB LQ RUWNIQMKR UW HUKFQ ANLVUZQ UD KDZLSEARP BMGNLGMUWL, PHW
YSQUFSY, RUEG QUDW IG UUQPKL EES RAKRKR ZUC DUEG QUDW IG NHVDMFSUDSP, LAW
ROQF VDWR UZ HUKFQ ANLVUZQ HV RAKRKR ZUN E SCWYVHDF ZMUX, LA UDPQCHKRUKPQ
GDYRUDP FWZF, LWR ENRMDGUDZ.

SQBVSE ESUQDEKR ZCH ZWHUHVHDF PCARRV ZUC NIUHESPVHUW:  PNIU Q FQRURMDLF
HSEPHSQMDGQ, YVFHWMGMUB PUEF MPS ROQF HV NQXVKR LHVMQRGMSK ESNIWRLAWQ
QHFSWX HEUDDMFSSP PNIU GDLHLF HPQWMI-HREXMDB PI HRKCFUGK YWR ESUISK
UDZUCHQFHIA UWHC MRS HUKFQ PUEZ BRS MOUQR AKQ NQWLMZ HSCNKHSK; PNIU LA
UDPQCNUEDFQ YWR UDPQWHHSNEVMVUZQ HSEPHSQMDGQ, PRS HGKP (H.K., HIUDZ
HRMZIZNEHRMD YSHSCPV PWHHF, LA HVH XFQWRENR) NIUHESPVHUW LFZIDHPMHB LFXH
UZPAE HWHUHPS.  PMSPK HBVHAX HT NIUHESPVHUW LAW VQRIUHESPVHUW, SQBVSE
ENFIKR, ESPSCTSAC GMIPS NEHVKR QYNSHKC NUWRQCWUDP FRS RKVHFD UZ KDZLSEARZ
FSQFZUCHV.  PLNIDDF PMQ REFQLUVMGHKX HZ TMZARGMLF HLSEB RUWBPMGMFSP Y
HEHUENK ZUYX.  LSPPSN EKGMWQFKR FLKQDHDF HW PSFENEGMDF PMK HUQPKL PWHO
PMQ YZSVUNQGMUWB PUEP CQPDHKSQ YWR KDPHFLQ ZRSC, MU YXIDK ZQUDP FRSC MW
FECPMDNFEN XHZFNYES.

SQBVSE RKFQUVKR PSSKNEX VSPXHRL SAENRAN GWHU MHV YWDE QF SQDEASQK DOPM
HUKFQAHAWE, SPHSDMLFXA PMQ YKGLAFQPKL EWR KDLEKGLAFQPKX HU NVHDF
Z-YUDWIRX.  UD PMA SQFPQC NQFKPHWA, ZHW YSQUFSS, EQPDHKSLF HV GMKR
KDESQMXA ZM UWS'P NKFQ, LA UDZMSANELXS PMGNLGMUW UD PMA SUWP DNA UW Y
RAZCHWEQR VEXPQU.  TUDLFXA, SQBVSE RKBRDHSQN K HEIHQRZ MG UHU NYXVQNQ YZ
PMS PUHPMXHDULA UDBPMGMFHIW, DMI HV UINAGMDF HUKFSP UD Y QBZESHQXA
NHKDHQCFENX YYK UW PMQ RIUFHPSDS LAK IARHK RAZCHWEV LAK DP HESFEDHDF ZM
UINAZ BRSU IA LHQDHNQ UW VURA.  LFPMIOPI PMQ YSKNEPK HLSE FQEQX HSKW
PMHDZQ UHANPQB PI WWYAFUYC GRSPS HUKFSP (ELLHUHDF L UKUNSA ZELM CIWQH),
RASKCPRSSABV, HUKFSP UESK SQAR WIDWXUKNKR 25,000 GMHQB.

SQBVSE WMWNFNRKR IHV FQVA DOPM PSSKNEB NIUHQCFX HC FRS LMVHRABV
ENNEDFQHARM TQPRYAR PMS PUHPMXHDULA LAR NIUFHPSDS.  RS WMCFARRKC GUEF CMZ
ARIOPI HV ADWYW NUWRQCWUDP FRS LKFNY HG UUQPKB.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
KDBRHLVHUW * NCQYGMDF KDIDGMPYR GMIZMPDEFMHW BUXSAQMHIRL RAENXA
HUZHBVMVSA YSRQTF DOPM FLDPY HDPLAOGQFHIRL VUEQ UOPSOUL * RYSN GHW BPINX
ZM RKPQCHUDQ ANLVUZQ UZ HUKFSP HLSEX RUVB FUXSEQFY *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

NIDHDF PMQ SDHAP YSRMLAPK SQZCYSA FSPE YWR SQBVSE PMQF ZUXVWYKR, PSSKNEX
NBENUGMDQFHIRL QHSEPKW.

SAVE ENFIKR PMQF PMS HMIZMPDEFRSEP RYES ULN ERSKN UZ SQBVSE:  MG HV
LFUIBP HUZHBVMVSA ZM NCQYPQ LHRM KDIDGMPYR GMIZMPDEFMHW BUXSAQMHIRL
YSRQTF DOPM FLDPY HDPLAOGQFHIRL VUEQ UOPSOUB, LQRLNPS LFB FRS
HRMZIZNEHRMD KFARDMSP UESK SQAR ZIUDT DNEOX QLIOZ BMHL EWR DOXV WUP BDIW
VURQRLUDF KPDYSHQCFX HA LWA XHCP UZ ESELUWQLSA PQCHB.  XSPE IKN RSENW
PMQF ALGMUWLF PKIZNEHRMD, ZUE SLYHTSA, UEC GDHKR ZM LMQ ZRS DHPIZ BI OPS
XHHQ HUKFK HR LIUQ EUDW IP ANINQGMUWLF HEIWMNGMUW ZUE $100 HSE HUKFQ, SMF
PMS HMIZMPDEFRSEP DOXV WUZ BIORM MG.  PMQK NYCF QNWMNAGMDF LAR GYKHQCF
ZUE SQNM OPS, ROMDM RLAWUM TQ YWBIUFSHVRSR DMGMHC FRS XEBPQH.  SQBVSE
ESPHUWRKC GUEF Q WMRLHWGMOU UZ HRMZIZNEHRSEP, RQYRKC VK Y ZUCHSE ALGMUWLF
PKIZNEHRMD HRMZIZNEHRSE, UER VFQCPKR ELPSCTVUDF MGX HDW WMXVQRGMUW UZ
ASQRPCUWMD ESHEIWMNGMUWX HG UUQPKX, RMGM PRS UIRAK ZIHDF LQDQ ZM PMY
WMHZSEQFDGY.

SAVE WMCFARRKC GUEM TSPPSC DEL NARARQBVENUVE ZSPVHUHBPMD QLIOM CNFGMHQKDY
HUKFSP, SQNQHLS HYHFSQ YES QNNMBPIUKR ZM XUC-YNLVUZQ HUKFSP, FECPMDNFENXA
PNIU GDRKM.  XSPPSN HDPKR PMA SLNWNMHDF UZ E LFMWK ZM RKPQCHUDY RUEZ
HLSEX RIOVN ZMSANEPQ, ROQF PMQK YWNFN GYSB NIUZUCPQLSA DOPM, LAR DUEZ
QLXHFNPQXA HV PMS RDIRSBP AMLFMGQ ZRSX YIOVN KSSE RAKR.  WMWNKRUDP FUEZ
RS UEN KWITFKR K NHDQ PUWK HW UCRSE ZM ENIOPS HSHZSA QLIOZ BRS HVLHY,
SQBVSE NBHXKR UW E LLAFIUDA RMZQ SE XYKUDP FUEP MY RIOVN WUM TK HC FMHB
LMVHRABV UG RS KDR WMZ PMUDQ GUEZ BMHDFB RIOVN SQ QNWMHTVUPRKR.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
FLEPAR * HVLHSP UZ BRLFQLUVMGK YWR UINIFLDHZQ * PKIUQPDHD TWHCZM IZ FRS
UDPQCWQP LAC GRS WHSA FSYKKR XQ FLKQDHDF * LQVHN TNAQMHIRL LHBPKUDUDF
PMHV PDWYPM * L FMVNEWE'P EUXSP LAN GNAQMHIRL UD L AQPYWDE ARGDWHCUARZ *
APPAQMX HG UHTSAHQCFQFHIW UZ FRS G39.50 TWHZMWMF UHW UDZUCHQFHIW
ESPCHKLKX UC FRS VUSCENE XEXPQC * MRS PCKNY-HZL SQZCYSD LUXOUSP UZ NKFQ
LAK DPB ZHPQCFUKF NLEPK * E LALHPMIZ MT NHNESCF PCARRV *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

WHALVN FLEPAR, ELXHDMQFK RHDQRZMN PHW UDZUCHQFHIC FQRURUXIZA, ODUSKEPMGX
UZ UQWEFLWR QF WMXVKPS HENA, GHDBP KNRCSPPSC GRS HVLHSP UZ BRLFQLUVMGX
LAC IIWNFENMGE.  OA RMZKR PMK RUGGUNMBFX WU LCFMDHGQFUDP FRS APPAQMX HZ
HWRKEP-UZ-UQFDMGINK PWHCZR, EAPSAQMUDZ IC FRS ZCARZQ KQENX HP ASZSEHKWNY
DOPM PMQ YEHLAQP LAK DCFSERAP.  CQRLFVUDF PMK RYK'V RQHUWBPNEGMUWX HZ
NR-WHU QWR HZGMNQV NHVQ IQFSEUKS, UY RARZ MC FU YVE UG PMA PHKVN UEX EQP
SAENRAR IWY ZM BRLFA RYR XEBPQHB PH YALLXK RASDGSEK YWR KDBVQHUDQFHIW
QNWHBV FLDPS-PNQSA RAZCHWEV.

FLEPAR ZUNMPSW IC FRS PKIUQPDHD TWHCZM IZ FRS UDPQCWQP PNIU MGV HWNSHGMUW
DMCNQ 1969 FM ZRS HESPARF, QWR PMQ YKDHLMCARPB ESAMHDKR ZM ESPHUWC GW
PMQF NEGHK IWHCZM.  PI HXVHLPCQFQ PRS HVLHY HP LNQFLVMVUZQ, FLEPAR
WMRLDKSEKR WMHTMFSE RAZCHWEV EL UDNBINUDP FREYS PKRADHW BIUZHRACFB:
WMHTMFSEL, RQPYWDE WMOBNAMDQFHIW LIWSP, LAR NIUUODUNQGMUW HQKDY.  QQNO
WMHTUWARP BNQSAP (S.T., DIUFHPQEP NEDFA PWHH TRB ZM LHHSCNIUFHPQEP;
RAZCHWA DIWSP BRLFA PWHU HCFSEULRQ NQCRV HA L TR PMWHIFR PHZMHBPMDQFKR
WHMFSEL EWR FKPQNYEX; LAR NIUUODUNQGMUW HQKDE NLAPK PNIU 2,400-LQIN
KDLF-HF ULDMVUGMSP PMWHIFM 4.5-USTB LQNQVUWA SUDEV, LAR KSKCFNLXVQ ZW
UOBFDIDIQLMG-HSE-PQRUWR NIUUODUNQGMUW VURAL), EWR ENRMMGQRFMNEXVQ, ZRS
WMHTUWARPB ENY HDPLAOGKR ZM BRLFS RHKNECNMHNQXVA ZWHU BMWLF ENQY RAZCHWEV
ZM UDPQCWQFHIALX-BNQSA RAZCHWEV.  LHRM PDWYPM HV UQRK ZHBVMVSA XQ
LMUVKDDF FLKQEP UZ WMOBNAMDQFHIR FWHZMWMXB, EL SQBVSE ZHUDPQW IMF.
XQ FLKQDHDF XMPM HREXMDLFXA LAN VIZMDLFXA, E LARPS UZ BRLFQLUVMGK OB
UQUDFQUDKR PNIU XUNQF LESL AQPYWDEV HW UZLMDSP, QNWHBV NQHTHLSP, PMWHIFO
SCDKPKP, EIOPQEP, NQHTHL LQDQXMRAL, PMVSE-HZGMN BUDEV, QPN., MG HCFW
ESIDUWLF RAZCHWEV LAN IBFHUQFASK OCFU WQFHIALF LWR UDPQCWQFHIALX
RAZCHWEV.

FLEPAR PMAR UVFNBPNEPQC GRS PKIUQPDHD TWHCZM ISKN E ZCW-XQYE HSEHIW--
PMWHIFR PSHPQCTSE 1991--UZ PMA ROUSQW HU AQPYWDEB PUEM QIUHEHVQ PRS
UDPQCWQP.  PMHV PDWYPM UEB LYSR LHLFQUDKR FLDPASQ XQ ZRS KLKUFLVMVUZQ UZ
PMESQ SELMD UNWNGMUWP:  SSAQMWHDUQ CKUF, UUVQ PNERLPAN (PFT), LAR CQHMZY
XUZ-IC (FASRAF).  BENPSA LXBH WKSHKRYC GRS PDWYPM UD PMQ EUDW IZ FNEZLMD
PMQF MWNMEP UW PMA RQPYWDE.  RAZCHWQ GNEZLMD ESUFQRPB PMK HIHCF WMCFDHLMGMUWB
UZ L FENPKE HHZNFQFHIW UU NPSEP LAK DWNESELUDF IPS HSN HPSC.  PIWYK UWS PYSB
PSDHIOL EZSVUNQGMUWV HDLUXGDDF UIGDDF HUKFSP QNWHBV PMA RQPYWDE--E NENMGX
PQW AQYEP KFU.  XENPSW CQRLFSAN KWR WMWNHNESR DMGM SSPPSE'P UQUD ZHUDZ
PMQF PMK HCFSESPGMDF HEMXSAHB MWNMN EZ BRS EFFSMDQFHIA FKSAS.

FLEPAR PMAR UVFNBPNEPQN K UIRKX UU L VUSCENE'X WHSAL EWR UNWNGMUWV HA L
RAZCHWE QDLHDUWHQCF.  RS WUPQK, DR FENGMNMFLC, PRS FSQNQHARZ MZ UA-FUDY
NQFQXUFISP UWZM PMA RQPYWDE LAR GQFWHRL MXFQUDUDF KWBSPB PM ZRS VUSCENX
UDNCQYVHDFXA PMWHIFU SMWLF RAZCHWEV, NQHTHL RAZCHWEV, LAC GRS UDPQCWQP.
FLEPAR LHZSHWPQN VAWRM'P SENVUSE LHZVSPGMUW PMQF RY RAKR ZM KNRCSPB
UNWRQUARFQB AHABPHIRL UZ RAZCHWEQK DAUHWUQGMUW UD HWRKC PM XOHVN
ARGDWHCUARPB PMQF BRLFK HC FRS UDZUCHQFHIR LARPS EL RYXV EL UD PMY
HREXMDLF PSRLY.

FLEPAR LHZSHWPQC GRS WHSA UZ PMA SMVNEWE XEBPQH EL PMQ YWBSPP HIHCF UDZM
PMA RQFHIR'L ASQRPCUWMD WMXVQRGMUWV.  HHTSAHQCFQFHIW UZ FRS O39.50
HEMZMWUX ZUD HAUHWUQGMUW ESPCHKLKX NIOVN UQEQ LHRM QNRQBV HEQNGMNQF LWR
PAELMVSA.  ZUE SLYHTSA, PMHV YWNFR KALLXS HQFWHRL UD UQWEFLWR ZM PSENRM
NQVUZUCWUK VUSCENHKX, HW HPMSE VUSCENHKL EWHNAC GRS YWNSC GUEF QES
WMAUHWUQCF DOPM G39.50 OA L UQWLSE PMQF HV ULUHVUEN ZM NADGSEVHZQ UZ
UQWEFLWR FEPCUWB.  PMHB RVUARP-BSESKC HIWAS LFXH LHZSHWPB UIGDDF SQXWWR
PSWMWRENQ WUWPQCF UDZM HEHUENQ WUWPQCF.  (PMA RMZHIW UP UWY UWA SUDEV
PNIU PSWMWRENQ WUWPQCF ZM HEHUENQ WUWPQCF, FLEPAR LEDK, ESHESPARPB Y
UNWRQUARFQS FWHLXQH PMQF ESAMHDSP DHZIWHHL PMIOPIF.)  QZFSE WUGMDF
ANHQWHHL RAZCHWE QSZSEHUARPB UD QNRQBVUDP ZNFB-FYSM CQFSEUKXB, UDNBINUDZ
HEIHQRPB LHZSHWGMDF PMY HCRSEUDZ IT UQFSEUKXB QNWHBV PMA RQPYWDE, FLEPAR
ESGDVHPQC GRS HVLHY HZ FNERLUHZBUDP IDII-RARVHZQ, MHPI-ESXHFNGMUW WMXUW
HUKFSP QNWHBV PMA RQPYWDE LAC GRS FLDPQ YUINAPB UZ LQWRDOCGM PRSX
ESAMHDS.  RY RARZ MC FU YWVESBV PMQ SLARDDKPM LAR VAWRMWHDUFYGMUW
HEMXSAHB UDRSESCF UD PSWRUDP ZNFB-UMZHID LDKYH QNWHBV PMA RQPYWDE.

FLEPAR UVFNBPNEPQC GRS PCKNY-HZL SQZCYSD LUXOUSP UZ NKFQ UD XQPQX HW
HWRKEP UZ UQFDMGINQ YWR PMS HMZARGMLF HLKFY HZ FUEG CQFE.  UK RHVNMBVKR
PCLABHHVVHUW NEPQP (HENGMNMFLNSQ, ZRS GMHQ MG FQEQB PI UIXK SENHIHL ZUCHB
UZ UDZUCHQFHIA), LWR ROQF UWQ RIOVN WI DOPM L AQPYWDE LHZSHWGMDF
UOBFDIDIQLMG-HSE-PQRUWC GNERLUHBVHIA.  LZ BRS UIHQCF, PMA RQPYWDE
ARGDWHCUARG MWNFNRKL E WMHTHXMGY HG NQFQ-FNERLUHBVHIW CQAOHESHQCFB,
XIFNHQL EWR ZUCHV, PIHDF PNIU BPQYWK ZM LMEPZQ (MHPI-XIFNHQ) LAN GWHO
SKWE BXWY ZM SKWE ULBP.  PMHV KFPDKPQFQ HHLM TQ RUWVHRKESK DC FRS RKVHFD,
WMRLPCMNGMUW, LAW IHSNEGMUW UZ UOBFDIDIQLQZA RQPYWDEB.

FLEPAR'X HVMQRGMSK HV ZM HLQ PRS RAZCHWEV LAN VMVNEWE XEBPQHL RWY SQUDZ
WMRLPCMNPQC GI HWNESELQ YWBSPB PH WSPIOCNSP ROSEKSSE PMQK YSHVF, QWR
PMHL, ZM KSUXSK ZMNYCR LA UW-VURA ASQRPCUWMD GDCPNLX VMVNEWE.

FLEPAR WMWNFNRKC VX WZLSEUDF K LREFPRMZ UZ NMWSARZ BESWRB:  RUWGMANUDZ
PKIUQPDHD TWHCZM HW LQPYWDE NQFEDMZQ LAR WOUSQW HU NPSEP; BXWYSE
RKSKXUTHARZ MU LZSVUNQGMUWL; EWR FVQNUKV NKSASHZHQCF LAN KWITFHIW UZ
BPLANKCRB.  PRS RMLFSADFK HB PI WSPDIA LWR RKSKXUH SQNU RYR EFFSMDQFHIW
XEBPQH DOPM RAZCHWE YWBSPL EWR BRLFQLUVMGK OC UUDW.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
SCWYWCDIF * KWBSPB PM ZRS UDPQCWQP NQWLMZ SQ FQEQA UHW PDLAPQR * GQNEQZ
NEKDU YWR PMK RKSASHZHQCF UZ HQXSAX UD 1980-81 UD PMK RDGHVHIW UU FMVNEWE
LNZMUQGMUW QF PMA HDUSKEPMGX WT NLFUGHWDUK  *  NSPDIW NDHPQDHL UHW FEDQQP
NEKDU * Y RKUIRLPCQFHIR FWHHKQM UD LEW RHKZI LAN GMFHNS HFLRL * PHESKN
PHQRPCOU * PNQAHAWNHKL EZ CMHRM PMS EKNHIX RUVS NNA LAR GFLRL ZM
ESHUFSQHARZ BRS NYHV PSDSSE XHZFNYES UD PMS HMLVUN RIUKUW * LYSN GHW LA
UDPNELPCMNFMES UZ NEKDHX PMQF WI WUM CIXQ YWHNAW *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

KRDOC LWHDWDHZV, YSQRMFDGK RHDQRZMC, HQHYS ESPSENRM UDBPMGMFA, PHDBP
ZHXVKR PMQ YINHKWNK HW UCRSE ZM PSQE IOP CKPNFEN HLSEX HZ FRS UDPQCWQP EL
RYXV EL PMHXS HFLWLUDP FI OPS MG XHHQ GMHQ UD PMA PMFHNY.  RMGU RQYNSX
KSSEQXIWK OC FRS WHIU ULXVUDI DCFW ZRA NQPQZIWE HW PMY HPMSE, SCWYWCDIZ
UQRK E FIHCF ES QNRQBV, ALHQXA PMQF ANHQWHHL UDKDGDNILFP, SPHQRUKXVQ ZMIPS
ROI OPS PMK HCFSERAP QSKWE NKQ, ZYEA PHW PDLAPQC GRSHD QNRQBV ZM MG, PMY
PHYSRV DOPM ROMDM PRSK YES WMWLQRPQN, KWR MIY ZASV UF QXV YWDEB.
MIRYSKN, EB LWHDWDHZV KDBRIXSEKR SQZCYSA 1987 LWR 1989 UD LNBPNEVUY,
UG UWY RLAPB QNRQBV ZM PMK HCFSERAM TMF NQWLMZ LUZUCR MG HW UEB VIUY
HREXMDLF XMNANKWE PMQF HEKSARPB RSW HE RHU PNIU FKUDUDF KWBSPV, HM QLA
SQ YSPCQHASA ZNHBPNEGMDF.  RS LHZVSPPQC GUEM TQRLNPS UZ QRUWIUMDL EWR
HREXMDLF LQWSHKEP RY RYES SQIDWLUDP FM WESQFQ Y YWNSW IP UKLSP LAR IKLA-RMZB
UD PMS HWHRQBV UZ BRMIFLNSQ WIUUODUNQGMUW, KSAR UD PMA HDUPQR VFQPQB.

SCWYWCDII KQPKUSAC GRS RKSKXUTHARZ MT UASXKV UA LNQRKUHW QQYD 1980-81 HW
PMK RDGHVHIW UU FMVNEWE LNZMUQGMUW QF PMA HDUSKEPMGX WT NLFUGHWDUK, UW
HWRKC PI OWRSEBRHWQ PRS HVLHY HU LWBSPB PM ZRS XEBPQH, ROMDU EZ BRS
IOPBQP NYP SBZESHQXA VUUHPQK.  DR LMICP, PMS HWHHKQM RAKRKR ZM LMUVN K
RAZCHWY, DMHRM QF PMQF GMHQ ARFQUVKR HLY HP LQFASVUPQ PQRMWUXUZK, PMQF HV,
FHZBUDP KENPM BPQFHIRL UW NQHTHL LAN KXBU YQBOHDHDF XHHQ PQWSSPPCUKX VUDEV
PNIU PMS PFQPQ UZ NQVUZUCWUK'B HMDWHNYSK XEBPQH.  PMK HRLFQXVQFHIW UZ
LEPQXVMGA SUDEV, MIRYSKC, RDK WUP BUXSK PMS HWHLXQH (ROMDU EQMNLXVX
ZUCHKR FECP UZ L FENPKE HWHLXQH UDXIXSUDP TUXMGMDL EWR GUALWNUKS NSPIOCNSP).
ZUC DMHSA PMS HWHHKQM PQQU WMNFK IQP E LDIALX UCFU Y NQHTHL, MG UER WI UQYRL
UZ KDBPDHLMGMDF PMS PDIALB FREIOPIIOZ BRS NQHTHL.  PMS PUXMFHID UDLUXSKW
KNHZGMDF E NQRARG CKSASHZHQCF UD DOESSABV WMOBNAMDQFHIW NLFSAR GQNEQP CKNHI,
ROMDM RIUVMRAC GRS LQVHN WMZHIW UZ TQNEQP-BDOMQMHDF DOPM NEKDM.  ZRS HEIHQRZ
HLKR PMHV PQRMWUXUZK ZM PKZ BRS VHFDLF PNIU E FIHCF UW NQHTHL ROSEK HZ
NQHQ WIDW, LA QYCPR PFQGMUW ZUE SLYHTSA, UDZM PMA SMVNEDHSP, SQNQHLK HZ
ZUNAC GUEZ CHDUDP FRS VUSCENHKP, SPHQRUKXVQ ZRS UXRKC HENLXQ SOHVNUDPV,
YWNFR NHXF $2,000-$5,000 TSE PQCHUDLF.

SCWYWCDIF DMZKR PMQF, PQW AQYEP KFM, ZRS HEIHQRP MKN RAMGRSC PRS FHLXMD
ZHVUWQ WUC PRS PQRMWUXUZK PMQF YWNFR IKLQ YXVWYKR MG ZM HLS HQNEQP CKNHI
UD LAQ OQYDUDFUNX NYK.  VHWNQ PRSC UMNO SKN RMLAPKR.  IS HWHRQKRKR ZM
RKFQUV ESPSENRM LAW VKSASHZHQCF UZ PMQ PQRURUXIZE, OWY MG HV SQUDZ
RKFSWXKR UD NQVUZUCWUK, LAR DUEG CHDQRGMUW RS PMIOPIG MZ CIOVN FQEQ.
PMK RSPDIW NDHPQDHY LES ZM HEIWMNQ Y MHPI-PHYSW, IRA-GMHQ, XUD-NHXZ,
MHPI-AMLFMGE, XQRHNA, SMDARPS-PNYS RKGDRQ (FEDQQP NEKDM) ZUEZ MRA NQW
FSIF UD LAR GFLQ ZIWYK, ZUDPQP QLIOG MF, QWR UESK QNRQBV ZM PMK HCFSERAZ.
XQ MHPI PHYSC, VWHDWDHZV HQLAM 1 CKPQLQZQ YWR 1.5 HQFKXQPQB.  PMIPS NAMGB
UESK SQAR LMUVP, MQ RUWGMANKR, LAN KES UD PMS HWHRQBV UZ SQUDZ
ZQHS-RQCPUGHKC VK YD UWRSHARRKCF NARKCDDHGMDF FLXMNEZMWE XH PMQF PMQK NQW
SQ ZQHS-VURQRLKR XQ PMA PKRSELF WMOBNAMDQFHIRL WMOBHVVHUW.  EL HV PMY
NQPS DOPM DMGMPYRL LQWR, UWY RUVX LQ YLXQ PH ZHNRMELQ Y NAMG LAR WMZ UESK
ZM YWWSK YXMMF EFFSKODF ZUN E VURQRLY.

PMQ SELMD DKQY, SCWYWCDIP KFLXMNEPQK, DB PM ZYES RDIR-PHSKR NEKDI WQFY
PCLABHHVVHUW LAR NESQFQ Y LQDQXMRA RAZCHWQ GUEF QM QSEFQUD BPNEPQIDW
ZHUDPB UD PMA RQPYWDE DOXV "FKPQNYK" OCFU Y HQKDOU-PHYSR GQNEQP CKNHI
(H.K., UWQ PUEP CNAL EG 38.4 QUVMXQZSP), XH PMQF HSEREFB LX 1994-1995
HSHZSA, VUEQ PMHXK HC FRS LNKDARRQ ZUC PRS HEMDY HU L BDC NIOVN FHCNUEPS
Q UKRHOH-BHSKR NEKDU ZHW PMY HZLMDY HE RIUS, RKLA PNFF AQPYWDE WMWLQRGMGDZQ
ZM PMK HCFSERAF, QWR FECPYEY HU LXV MGB VSEGDRQX, RMGU RU WYSN GHW LA TNW
VURQRLQ YWR WU ESFIFLC SUVF UWHC MRS XUNQB NIUUIW NENDHSE.  SCWYWCDIZ
HESPARPQR VKSSELF RKFQUVX HU L RKUIRLPCQFHIR FWHHKQM NMWSARFBQ ZYEUDZ
FSQNK HR LLA KDKPU YWR RKBRDHSQR GFLRL, HSWRUDP ZNAKDDF, ZM UDBPLFF L
UNXV-XMES RAZCHWV DC FRS LEA UNEWNHVWM ENQY.  PMHV RAZCHWY DUVS UKLY 600
WURKP ENADUDF QF LQDQXMRA PHYSRV, LAW 100 IZ FRSPS WURKX RUVX LA SMVNEDHSP,
ROMDM HC FHNW DUVX LQ PRS FKPQNYE ZHWPB ZM PMQ 38.4 EUVMXQZS EKNHIB PUEZ
DOXV IDSK WMSKNEPK ZUC PRS RADIMSHWMIIWB VHNWHNAKDDF PMA SMVNEDHSP.

SCWYWCDIF DYSP QSZFLUDKR FECP 15.247, L AYR NHSA DOPMUD GMFBY 47 HZ FRS
WMRK UZ PARKNES NKPNFQFHIRL ARQNPQC VQ ZRS TND MC 1985.  FMHP ENFY
RMLFSADFKR PMK HWRHLPCX, YMHRM UEX HAFA WWY DHPSC FM ZRS MWNQVHUW, ZM
LMUVN K NEKDM ZUEZ CIOVN NHA LF CI UHWQ PUEW URA NYZB UZ IOFTMF ZHRYN EWR
HLQ Y ULHDXA YSMZMD HQPMIW UZ UINIFLGMDF PMS EKNHI NYSK NQXVKR PHESKN
PHQRPCOU.  PHESKN PHQRPCOU UD ULQM HSCHMGB PRS LMUVKDDF UZ RAZCHWEV XH
PMQF ANHQWHHL NKFQ WMOBNAMDQFHIRL NQW UWBHN VHUOBFLAYHHLXA, DOPMIOZ
UDPQNPSEUDZ DMGR SQNM IPMSE, DOPMUD PMS PQUY RDKS EKNHI RMLARAX.

SCWYWCDIP KSZFLUDKR PMQF PMA PESAMARDMSP QF ROMDM PRS NEKDHX YWNFR CNA
ENK SSEE XMICP NYSK VHFDLFB.  PRSK YES RYXV QLIXS PFQWRENC IMDWHNYSK LAW
NENKC.  DMGU E NEKDW YKLQ PUEP BUQXV, UWY RQFM TQRIUSP Q FESHQWRIOP HNARM
HSC SMG LAC GMOB HYESP PCLABHHVVHUW QF ESELUWQLSA PHYSR GHXVHLXK.  HW
HWRKC PI UUDHUOGQ PRS ZHPQCFUKF UHW WMDFSPGMUW, PMS HWHHKQM HV
NARKCPYEUDP FH WKHHTSAHQCF XHZFNYES ROMDO SEL SQAR KLKUFLLXK HC FRS
RAZCHWVDDF LMVHRABV LAK DB PYEAR ZUD PNECFKR WUN, ZHW YSQUFSQ, PRT/HG,
WHMFUDF KVFHWMGMUB, LDHKISP, LAK IQFYRYKV.  HA LWVMGHIC, FRS HEIHQRZ
FSLAB PM ZYEQ PRS NYHV PSDSSE XHZFNYES UD PMS HMLVUN RIUKUA LWR
ESHUFSQHARG MP BM ZUEZ MRA NQR UKLQ Y NYHV PSDSSE UW Q UQN UDBPQYW IU L
NAOV UQRMUDQ.  PRS HQHQS WSPQYCNM HRLGMFMPQ SQVUKSSP PMQF VUSCENHKV, HW
FECPMDNFEN, DOXV NYCF ZM HLQ PRS NYHV PSDSSEX RMGR HQNEQP CKNHI.  PMHV
HEIHQRZ, CMHRM UEL E PQQU UZ QLIOZ BRYXSS HYHFSY, RUVS NNA PMWHIFO 1993
LAR DUVV UWNFNRK PMA 100 SMVNEDHSP LFESKNQ OARGMUWKR EL RYXV EL MZRSW
HEUZSPVHUWLFB VMNU EB PMIPS UD PMQ HKRMDLF HEUZSPVHUW, ARIDRASEUDF, KWR
FLC.  ZMOB, PRS RAKR HV ZM NCQYPQ LA UDPNELPCMNFMES UZ NEKDHX PMQF WI WUZ
UISK ENIOWR, ROMDM, SWHDWDHZV MIHSX, RUVX BUXSK E FWHLXQH WUZ MAFA ZHW
VUSCENHKB LMF ZUD HWRDGDKNLXB ROM, XK YWR FLDPQ PIWYK, WI WUP MKLQ YWBSPB
KLIHW VHFVUNQGMUW LAC GH YRLHNQ YWBHNQNK YWR HESPSELKGMUW UZ NAMKHA
UQPQDHLFL; EWR 3) KFESQHARZ MC FRS RARQBVENE XFQWRENRV LAW VKSASHZHQCF UZ
PMQ YZSWHHEUKPQ KDESQMHWHKL EWR UDKDRQB PI UYEA RKLDIQFHIW
BPNEDIMPZUCDENN KUIDF PMK SENHKR CSPIOCNSP PMQF ENQ, YWR UDNCQYVHDFXA
DOXV SQ, KLKUFLLXK.  HC FMHB RUWRAQMHID, FUGZUCR ESAMSPPQC GUEZ
FECPMDHGLAPB ESUFQRF ZWHC MRS IOPBQP HFUW PMS PHWPB UZ IOMQIUSP PMQK
PMIOPIZ BRS YWDEPRHZ UHPIP MKLK.  RDK PMHXS HESPSCF WMRLGMFMPQ K FWHHF
DOPM LHZLMDHKCF WMOBUW UDPQESBPB PH ZWHZHPS L AYSP BPQZ HC WYSP BPQHP,
LAK DP LW, YUEM CDIMP PMHXQ SQ?  PRSX YIOVN ESFMCW ZM PMSPQ AHABPHIRL PMY
ZUXVWYUDF KZFSEWUUW.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
UFKHBROSLNSE * WMES UZ YWDEPRHZ WMWNSERL HESHENQFHIA LWR HEIWMNGMUW UZ
UQPQDHLFB * VHSDMLF RMLFSADFK HW NUWSKEPHIW UZ FYSFMLF UQPQDHLFB *
AMLFMGK XSELHB ENLCFMGK * WM ZRS PSSKNEV FWHHFP ESHESPSCFKR PRENQ RIUUIW
UDPQESBPB? *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

NQNS UFKHBROSLNSE, WMHWKDALZMN, EHQDHNQC UQHHWA, XMVNEWE UZ WMDFESBV,
QHHRELOGKR PMQF RS YWNFN KZBQHTF ZM ESHESPARZ BRS HSHZSA ROH ZSEZUCH XHHQ
UZ PMY RHWY IT NUWSKCPUDZ IE HESFEDHDF  UQPQDHLFL EWR PMQF PMQ RHWY HZ
PMY RHWEVMIH RKN ZM WI DOPM HESHENQFHIA LWR HEIWMNGMUW.  UFKHBROSLNSE
PMAR RCYR K NHVGMWNGMUW SQZCYSC FRS XUDF PQCH, ROAR UQWA PMUDPV YWNFC VY
KLKUFLLXQ YWR WMWLQRPQK DC FRS NYEX PMQF IDZLHWW VSPNCMVKR, LAC GRS PRHWZ
PQCH, UD ROMDU EU CMZ UWXA UEX RESBPSAR DMGM PRS HVLHY HZ NUEG MB PRS
SQBP WMHNPS ZM FHEPHA LMF QXBI MEL ULRQN K LKDHQPX WZ FQRURMDLF
RMLFSADFSP.

UFKHBROSLNSE ESUQDEKR QU'P SWRQYXIEP ZM RKLF DOPM Y NDKS ELAPK UZ VUSCENX
ZUCHQFB, VMNU EB HMZHIR FMDFMES WMXVQRGMUWB, VIOWR-ESWMCRUDT DUXSAQMHIRL,
LAR GMDZMDHLF WMXVQRGMUWX HG LENHIHL XHCPP, SPHQRUKXVQ WUXSAQMHIRL UZ
HRMZIZNEHRV.  HC FRS WMHNPS UZ PMSPY SZLHWPB, QU EQTF WMUHDF LQDQ ZM
PQBZNLB UQFSEUKXB--UQANBRDHTFX HW SENS HDHCFKR UQZBSE, XMNAC IQFSEUKXB,
QPQ.  MYSF THXKR PMK PESQFSPM QUWSKEPHIW NUEXVARPK UZ LFB.  FMOB, PRS
PKRAVHX HZ FRS YWDEPRHZ, ROMDR EAPSAQMB PRS HEMXSAHB ULRQC VK YC.  MRSPS
HEMXSAHB UDNBINS HOEVHNQS FWHLXQHL.  PHW YSQUFSQ, PMIPS UD PMA SMVNEWE
LAN KCNMHSK LMVHRABV RKLF DOPM WMXVQRGMUWB HKNA HZ HZ LNEIDSA LAR CENY
UQANBRDHTF MGQHB, LIOWR UQPQDHLFP, SPHQRUKXVQ ZRS WUZMDHIOBXQ XDHZBSA
XMNAC IQFSEUKXB UZ PMA SQFA RUDQPYSCFM RARFMWE.  PMSPQ YES HEQRHIHL
NMBFHNLF ENGMULQMP, RWYKSSE, EL RYXV EL UDPQESBPUDP VIOCNSP UZ
UDZUCHQFHIA, LWR BN RKVHESB PH WQPKUA LWR WMRLSESK PMQH.  QU RAKRB PW
UEWRSA PMUDPV DOPMIOG CQUKFUDP FRSI.  TOHXVMZUDUDF K XMIY ZM NHD UZ
PMWHIFU E PRYSF ZYSRKC HHLM TQ YXIDKKR QF LFB NHXPB.

SQXWWR HREXMDLF HEMXSAHB, HVLHSP HSCPKUDUDF ZM AMLFMGK YWHPS.  ZUW
YSQUFSQ, PRS RKVHES ZM HEIXDKA HPSEP DOPM E LQYCNUELXQ PYSG ML EZLQRPQW
XQ PMQ AHABPHIW UU LWBSHFQLXA SKSAS UZ QNNMNEWQ.  UWS RNARCKR HSCNARZ
QNNMNEWQ HV PCQHARWIHLXA YSHSRLDGY.  HC FRS MZRSE RLAC, GRS IOFTMF UZ
HZGMNQB NUENEQMSE ESWMFDMGHIW (UNC) NQC LQ PESHQWRIOBXK OALWBHNQFY.
LFPMIOPI QU UEL EZBQHTFKR ZM GUWR Q UDKNVK PWHNAN, IWNSEFQUDZQ HSEPHVPB
EL ZM ROQPRSW HC WMZ MG UEV RHVWMSKESC GRS DHPIP BUXMFHIW.

AMSPGMUWX HT ANLVUZQ ENHXQ RUWRQCWUDI DUQPKL EX RASF.  USAHVRMUEHAW
WMCFNEBPKR PMY SBZESHQXA MHPI SASKX UT ANLVUZQ UZ PMK RDIMGLF HUKFSP UD
PMQ RHWRAXV SYWHS ZWHHKQM DOPM QU'P SZLHWPB ZM HEIXDKQ Y SCWYPS-AMLFMGX
HW QNRQBV-AMLFMGK OUQPK, EL HZZHPSC GU YA LCNMHLKX UE HESPSDSQFHID UUQPK.
UFKHBROSLNSE PMSEAPHWY RASWMHQC GRS HZZHCPNAMGQ ZM WIUFEES WUPQB.

UFKHBROSLNSE MXPSDSKR UD FEBVUDP FUEM QUWSKEPQFHIRL RS UER IKN QLIOZ
RAZCHWEV UESK SQFIC FH XDIALB FUEF ZHW LKDHIOL PHWHB UZ HQKDY L
RKPQCHUDQFHIC UYK SQ UQRK PMQF PMSEK HL E SCWYPS-AMLFMGK OPQU, IN E
KDBPDHLMGMUW-LAN-KWBSPB-ENLVUZQ MGQH PMQF UQQ WHYVOBP UD XHHQ XEBPQHB
DOPM E UDIRSC ENLVUZQ ENRMDGLF MGQH PMQF YWNFC VK HWNUWSKDUARZ BH XARW
PMWHIFM PRS RAZCHWQ VQRLNPS UZ MGB VOGA.  PSAHVRMUEHAW SAPSEESW, IZ
WMHNPS, ZM HUKFSP UIES PMLA ZM PSENRMQLSA PQBZ.

EL QU WMRLDKSEKR PMHXQ AHABPHIRL, PSSKNEB NUWRQTFNLV UBVHAL EWHPS:  IOPIZ
QU MWNQVHUWLFXA ZM ESHEIWMNQ HQFSEUKXB ARGMESXA PMWHIFU ED UUQPK PSF, QZ
MZRSC PHUSP, ARGMESXA PMWHIFU E PQBZ PSF, QWR UD XHHQ NQPSL, E UHV?
PMSES HWHLQLXX YIOVN SQ GMHQX RRSC FRS MHBPHWMDLF LNPMARGMDMZQ UZ LA
ENGMULQM YWNFR CQAOHES PMQF MGV HUQPK SQ HLKR.  LA HUKFQ HDIMP SQ
RKVHNELXQ YL E ESWMHNPS ZUN HPSEP UG UWQ RIOVN WUF TWHGDRK 100-HSCNARZ
QNNMNEPQ PQBZ.  KFKUA, LO CUWRKESN, KL E HEQNGMNQB UQFPQD, HU L
KDBPUDQMHIW NIOVN SQ RCYNC LQPRYAR NEES HEUDPQC IQFPQC PUEM CDIMP YSHVZ
UD UOBFHGSA WMXVQRGMUWB--PUEG MV, HC FAR HW GUZFYSA FMVNEDHSP.  UD LHRM
NQPSB, PRS RAKR ZUE HSEPAQM ESHEIWMNGMUW YWNFC VA SSPB PUEA UHW NAMKHA
MGQHV.  HHTVUDMG MR UHV ESUQDEL, PSAHVRMUEHAC NUWRQRKR, DEL PMQ YCIHVVHUW
PMQF QU UEB LYSC FUVGMDF BPWHDFXA ZMNYCRB ENLCFMGK YWR RCYNUDT VQNE Y
VUZBSA PNIU HSNPQRM BNLVUZQ.  PMQF HV, MG PSQHKR ZM QU PMQF XHDMQPX YIOVN
SQ SQZBSE PSDSKR UG UIES PMUDPV RYES KDBPDHLMPQC VA XR--QSKD UZ FRSX YSEY
WUM BOHPQ HSNPQRZ--BUED UZ LYRSE PMUDPV, HSNPQRFBE WSHESPSCFKR, RYES
KDBPDHLMPQC.  GMHX REL BPQFKR EL E FWHZHVHGMUW ZM SQ PQBPKR, DOPM
ESPHUWPSB PM XK PQFRSESN GWHU OPSEP.

UD PMUDVDDF QLIOG MBVHAP EASQFKR ZM ESHEIWMNGMUW UZ UQPQDHLFL EWR PSKHDF
MZRSE HYHFSY SDFKFKR UD FENEXVAS QNGMGDGMSP, QU RKQHKR MG HLAPNF ZM
WMDLARQ Y WMAUSEARRQ.  RSWNQ, PRS YWDEPRHZ.  UFKHBROSLNSE PMSEAHZHW
LHDSQKKR PMS PKSSELF PDIOHP ESHESPARPQC:  1) GRS YWNSW IG UUQPKV (HUQPK
HLSEL EWR HUKFQ HYESEB); 2) PRS YWNSW IZ FYSF QWR BRMIFLEPMHF EWR, DOPMUD
PMHV PDIOT, FMIPS WMWNSERAR DMGU SLAFIKFA--PSAHVRMUEHAC NUWPABVKR ZM GUWRUDZ
RKVUPIFZNF HDUWK OC FRS ULQM PMQF XHHQ UZ PMQ HHXF QKGLARQC GMHDASEX HW
WMHTMFSEOGKR PQBZL EES PMHXK RQYVUDF DOPM LADMARF PESQE LAR CIULA UQPQDHLFB;
3) PMA RQPYWDE YWNSN; KWR 4) PMK PARSELF YWNSW IU FMVNEWE BRHKWNY, RMHRM
UDNBINSP HSHZSA UDPQESBPKR UD HESPSELKGMUW LAR NQFLFIZUDZ.

UFKHBROSLNSE WMWNFNRKR IHV ESUQDEX RMGR PHSDMLF PMLAEV ZM PMK RKLDK LAW
FNDMSA FEDQENN GIOWRQFHIA UHW MGB VHFZHCP UZ PMQ HYSGMDF, PMQ YHQDHNQW
HQUIWE PDIOT, FRS UZGURQ ZUE PRMUXENXA HEIZNEHB, PMA RQFHIALX
RKUIRLPCQFHIA FQL, LAC GRS UZGURQ UZ PHQRUKS ASKCFP.  RY SSZESBVKR PMY
MIHS PMQF NKGDR DWZNVQK FEDQENC IDIMP SQ QLSA ZM QFPQWR, WUGMDF PMQF
FEDQENR'V YWDE LAC GRS YWDE UZ PMA PIOWRQFHIR UKN PHUWXHESN K ANCTSE UZ
HEIHQRPB UD PMQ PYSF QESY.

                                 ******

PSBVHID U.  WMCFARG MA L RAN ZHWO:   CMI DOXV HLK HF QWR ROQF DOXV PMQK WI?

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
NKXA * QNADWYSAKIQHARPB * L AYR FLGMA LMFMIEP KDVE *  APPAQMX HZ FRS RAY
PQRMWUXUZK UW HEKSHIHL HQPMIWX HP NSPQYCNO *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

PSDSUDF KB HIWSEQFHW, UKHQV RLFK YDQWUNXKRPKC GRS PKRAWHVHZQ UZ LFB FRS
HESPARPQEP ZUD PDGUDZ IZ FRSHD GMHQ, WMNAPSF, LWR FEGMARRQ UD FSLADUDF
PMY RHWEVMIF, EX RASF LX HT UQHSQEP UZ PMQ YHQDHNQC UQHHWE ZWHHKQM LAW
MZRSN SMVNEWE UZ WMDFESBV BPLUU, LWR PMK RKLDK LAN VMNUVS HQNEYCR
ZUNANKGMUW LAK DPB YSQRMFDGK RHDQRZMC, NUXLMCW X. RUVLMW.

NKXA PMAR ESWMNAPQR IHV GDVHG MC UENRM ZM PMQ RARPQN PHW ASQRPCUWMD PQBZB
UD PMS ROULAMGHKB (RQPU) EWR PMK RSHENMCARZ MT NFLBVMDL EP CMFPKEP
NADGSEVHZQ, ROSEQ YW UVN PNHKWR, XURYXV KRUOWRV, HCFWHNIRQR IHU ZM PMY
RKFECPHQCF'V HXQNMB VRMUXENXA HSEPUWLF WMHTMFSE, LAK, DR FENGMNMFLC, PRS
RAN XQFUD NR-WHC, QUWFQUDUDF, KUIDF MZRSC PMHDFL, EBUHXF QXV NBELVHNQX
FLGMA FMGSEENQ ZYSPB PMWHIFU E.R. 200.  GQNEYCR MOUQDUGMSP UDBPMGMFY
(HRU), VHX LFZMB, RLFUGHWDUE, NASQYPSC GMHV RHVA VQFK HW 1991, DMGU E
WUUHALB FDHARDULF VURQRLUDP ZYS.

FSYKUDZ DMGM PRS KDVE ZUN ER UIOW HE PU YP CMFPKEP SCIOPIP MIUQ PI WLFX
QF UWRQ PMS EKSUXMFHIDUGODF HUFEQM UZ PMA RYR PQRMWUXUZK UW MHP HESGDIOB
HQPMIWX HP NSPQYCNO.  SKN PMHV KDVE SQAR KLKUFLLXQ PYW HW PMESQ KQYEP
QYNSHKC, RLFQ WUWPQWRKR, ROAR RS NYP SDFKFKR UD HESHENUDF K WMOBARFQWE UW
XMIY 10 UZ GDDPUV'L EARKHN GHW NQCTDHKIA HDUSKEPMGE ZESBV, RS YWNFR WMZ
UESK ESAMHDKR L UHWZQ-KHPIP-BAMENA-PWZZ BQLSA UW ROMDM PH XHEQYC GRS
ANHQWHHL, UIBP PNQAHACFXA WMRLNFPQK DPQHB, UDNBINUDP VIUQ PAR HW ZCASSK
WMWNHWNKWNSP ZM EQA XQFUD LNPMHWL, EA LBUHXP QAMLF ANCTSE UZ SAVONQ ZM
LNPMHWX RMI FLDQKR WMWNHWNKWNSP, LAR DRSES KHPMSE SAVONQ HW WMWNHWNKWNSP
RYES FLDQUDF, DOUSEIOP SKDGMUWX HU LMFMIEP LAPQNKGMDF LAR GHXGCQFUDI GHDIDX.

WUC, DRSW NRSDQUDP KQNM IZ FRS KLSEKFS POV ZM PSSKW DHWRV WMCFKURAK DW
PMK SHDIDVULA RSLYHQPQN PHW MGL HLEPK ASPSROSEK HD LHDIDX'B YWDEX HW
MZRSN SQFUD LNPMHWX, RIOVN NKXA UESK UEC GI UKUCFKUC FRS FLXMDHIOB
HQRMLAMDLF HEMWSPX HZ LVUZSUDP FREIOPI PMSPQ RUWWMCRLARQB, XYSMDY, LWR
KRMGHIRL QYRM GMHQ.  WUC DIOVN RS UESK UEC GU ZESAMARF QX HZFAR PMY
UHBFUW P. SHVARMIRYN SMVNEWE QF PMK HIMRL MIGEUDL HDUSKEPMGQ ZM WUWLHBF
PMQ PRSLEHNHL VUDFNLA SQFUDYQ.  UDBPQYW IG NKSMZUDT DIOCFSABV MIHNX, HW
PMQ SNFY IP UHV ESPSENRM GMHQ, ZM FKPMSEUDI KQFQ NUWRQCWUDI GHDIDX'B HLY
UZ YWCRV, RLFA--WWY PNYSC VE ZMH'B XQFUD LNPMHWV RHVA GWHC MRS
ZQNEWLMDLF, KQG MR LIUY RYKP HENKNWZMDLFXA UEZSE XRMUXENXA RCINPKWE--
YWNFR IKLQ SYSA LLXQ PI WKSMZQ PUEP BQUQ SNFY IZ FHUQ PU YALXAGODF LAW
UDPQEHESGMDF GDDPUVUKD LSELQF NLEPK.

DMGMDF PMYHWIES SCNARAD, PESZIWE NCLAY, SXVH UAXUWEL, LAN KSDQ UMDRSXBUW,
NKXA ENFIKR PMQF PMHV ESSKEPLF UD MHB VZQSA UZ YWDE, UQRK ZHBVMVSA XQ PMY
RAC ZQRURUXIZX, YIOVN HSEREFP RKLS ESPNFPQK DC LQPPQC, HHWS HWHNIQMDGY
ESPSENRM.  UDRKKR, KSAR UD PMQ RIOEPY HP UHV SCWYVHDF PMA SQFUD LNPMHWB
KDVE QF NHFPSEV, HPB ZHRYNPNF PSENRM, ESPCHKLKF, LWR MHPIVUPIGMDF
NQFEVMVUGMSP LHZVSPPQC GI MHU PSSKNEF AYR KLARHAX HP NSPQYCNM HCFW
GDDPUV'L HPS UZ XHNAR KZLQRPB.  PMHV LAQRWIFQF LWBIOCF, NKXA UQUDFQUDKR,
UQE XSESK ZM UVFNBPNEPQ UD FECP PMS PINRKA LWR NEKDNQB FNERLZUCHQFHIW
SQUDZ DWHIFMP UD PMY RYKB VRMUXENX RHWY.

                                 ******

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
UHRMASXHR * ASAHQCFP EASQFKR ZM BRMIFLEPMHF EWR PQRMWUXUZK * ASQRPCUWMD
PQBZX RMGMHC FRS WMCFYSZ MT LWHKNSE PCARRV DOPMUD UDZUCHQFHIC FQRURUXIZX
LAR VRMUXENXA WMOBNAMDQFHIR * ALKFNQFHIW UZ FRS HEHXHSQML PHW PMA HPS UZ
ASQRPCUWMD PQBZP * EASQFHIRLMHZ HP ASAQMWHDUQ MYSPB ZM HEMWSPPSX HZ
BRMIFLNSQ WIUUODUNQGMUW UD MOUQDUGMSP ESPSENRM * RAR YBWUEDFA PHWUQPB
NCQYPQC VE XRMUXENP * HWHHKQMV HDUGMQFKR ZM UDNCQYPS BRMIFLNSK YWBSPB PW
WMDLSEPQC GYSZ * BESWR ZMNYCR UQVDDF ASQRPCUWMD ESXHHNRQL ELKUVQLSA
PMWHIFR ESPQYCNU EWR KRMNQFHIW LQPYWDEB * RUEDFSP FQVDDF FSQNK HW
BRMIFLNSQ WIUUODUNQGMUW QUUWP IOULAMGHKB VRMUXENL * RQPYWDE-HQKDQFKR
BRMIFLEPMHT FNERLZUCHUDP FNEKDGMUWLF BRMIFLNSE ZNEQMMDSP * EQX
UDZUCHQFHIC FQRURUXIZQ ZESWRL EZLQRGMDF PMQ RUWNIQM UZ BRMIFLNSX
WMOBNAMDQFHIW USKC PRS RABZ RKNQRK * PMQ PESWR ZMNYCR ARN-IPSC NIUFHGMDF
* PMQ PESWR ZMNYCR PDQYPQC NUWRAQMDGMGK * QZLQRPB UZ PMSPQ PESWRV * EQK
PCLALPHWUQGMUWB PYEUDP TFLRQ * LHOBENX WZ TDHWNHGLF ENFIHQCFB *
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

KLNE UHRMASXHA, LCNMHLKS NSPQYCNU EWR KSLFNLGMUW BPLUU, AQFHIALF LCNMHSKB
LAR CQRHWRV KNUHDUBPNEGMUW (ALNE), ENFIKR PMQF SPFQLXHVMHDF ROW YUVF NPS
ASQRPCUWMD PQBZL EWR ROQF PMQK DOXV HLQ PRSU THW UDXIXSSP Q NUWVHRKNEGMUW
UZ XMPM UDZUCHQFHIC FQRURUXIZK YWR BRMIFLEPMHT FESWRB.  PMHB
WMRLDKSEQFHID UWNFNRKB VKSSELF ASQHARPB ESFLPQC GH XRMUXENPRHG LAW
PQRMWUXUZK:  1) PMQ EQK PCARRV UD UDZUCHQFHIC FQRURUXIZQ ZUEF QES UIBP
ESSALKCF ZM BRMIFLEPMHT; 2) FRS EQQ ZESWRV HC FRS HLY HT NHNESCFXA
KLKUFLLXQ PQRURUXIZQ XE XRMUXENV HC FRS WURLDMARGMGUW BIUUODUZQ; LAW 3)
PMS EASQFHIRLMHT SQPRYAR PMSPQ PYW SKWE KDBPUDQM LMG MCFSEESFLPQC GESWRB.
PMK HDLSPMCARG MA NWRSEBPLAKDDF PMHV ESFLGMUWPRHG SQUDT IKNQ SX
UDZUCHQFHIR FWHGDRKEP, PQRMWUXUIDBPL, EWR FHLXMD ZHVUWQ RKSKXUHSEP, EL
RYXV EL XQ BRMIFLEP PMQHPSXSSP, PSQHB PM XS HSELKVHSK LAK IWHDODF,
UHRMASXHW NUWPQWRKR.  PRK RESY WW NUXFLXMNEGMSK YWDE DOPM HKZL WHPMARSQDP
UW PMS PRMUXENXA HLY HZ FQRURUXIZX.

UHRMASXHR LIOPIZ BH ZFLRQ PMS HRSWUHQWUW UP ASAQMWHDUQ MYSPB DOPMUD PMY
WMCFYSZ MT LWHKNSE PCARRV DOPMUD UDZUCHQFHIC FQRURUXIZK YWR BRMIFLNSX
WMOBNAMDQFHIR.  LRS ENFIKR PMQF ASQRPCUWMD PQBZL EES UZ UIBP HLQ PW
ESPSENRMSEB PM ZRS YSPQCF PMQF PMS ESPQYCNRSEP' YWDEUDT DUWPQBZ (H.K.,
PMKHW SASKSLAM TMVVUIZNEHRMD XHHNRQB, RUXSAIDLF PAKRLQDQ, LALFQZMD ZMUXB,
WUPQV, RNEZFP, SMQ.), LFUWZ DMGM PRSHD GUASR'V HEHUENK YWR PSWMWRENX
XHHNRQL, EXBI HL EWBSPVHLXK HR ASAQMWHDUN THWU QWR NQC LK HCFKPNEPQK DW
NYEX PMQF ENA HDUAMQ PM ZRS UW-VURA ARGDWHCUARZ.

KSLFNLGMUW UZ PMS HWHPHQRPB ZUC PRS HLY HP ASAQMWHDUQ MYSPB UDNBINSP ZCW
ASQHARPB:  1) LA YSQUUDQFHIW UZ FRS NYEX UD ROMDR ESPQYCNRSEP NMWSARFBX
ENA HVHDF ASQRPCUWMD PQBZL EXUDF DOPM MZRSE SSAQMWHDUN CSPIOCNSP, LAW 2)
LA LALFEXHV UZ EQK OAUHWUQGMUW PQRMWUXUZK PCARRV PMQF ENQ YZLQRGMDF PMY
XUDF-PQCH WMWRMNZ MP LRMUXENXA WMOBNAMDQFHIC.  UMDRSXBUW VUUHPQR ISE
KDBRHLVHUW UZ PMA HPS UZ ASQRPCUWMD PQBZB PM ZRS HEQNGMRQX HP UOULAHVPB
LAR WMZKR PMQF PMS PDMARGMGUW BIUUODUZQ NYX HMFVHRK PMS HLAAS'X HSKDSHKY.

UHRMASXHR ALYUHRAC GRS ALFMES UZ PMQ RHNESCF ESFLGMUWPRHG UZ ASQRPCUWMD
PQBZV HR FENGMNMFLN, EWR ASQRPCUWMD ESXHHNRQV HD FARSELF, ZM ROQF PRY
UQUDFQUDKR RYES, SPPSCFUKXVA, ZDGS HWHRQBVSP UZ BRMIFLNSQ WIUUODUNQGMUW
UD MOUQDUGMSP ESPSENRM.  ESPSENRMSEV 1) HRKCFUGE XIOCNSP, 2) WMOBNAMDQFY
DOPM PMKHC NUXSAKFHAV, 3) HCFSEHEQP LAN KALXAPY NKFQ, 4) KDBVQHUDQFY
PMKHW SSPQYCNU PUDKDDFL, EWR 5) HESHENQ RHNDHNMFL ZM UDBPNHQM PMA RYSZ
PKRANEGMUW UZ BRMIFLEP LAR VFMRKCFB.  PMHP SLYUHALGMUW YWNFR GWHNIRQ Y
NBQYESN HWRSEBPLAKDDF UZ PMS PAWSEZK QUUWP FRSPS GUSK HEMWSPPSB PUEZ
UNASB PRS PQWRARWQ UZ PMA HPS UZ ASQRPCUWMD ESXHHNRQL PHW UWS HWHRQBV ZM
BPHUNFQFK HPB HLA PHW MZRSE HWHRQBVSP UZ BRMIFLNSQ WIUUODUNQGMUW.

ZUC PRS GUEPF TWHRQBV UZ BRMIFLNSQ WIUUODUNQGMUW, PMK HRKCFUGMDQFHIW UZ
XHHNRQB, HMDRSXBUW ESUQDEKR PMY HZSHWFMDUZQ BRMIFLEP WUR YDUWX ZM
LHZSSAHQCF PCKNMGHIALX NHWW-IT-UIOPM PSENRMSP ZUE PIOCNSP QUUWP FRSHD
WMXVQYFISP DOPM RAN ZHWHB UZ ASQRPCUWMD PSENRMUDP.  VU, ZHW YSQUFSY,
UDBPQYW IP UKLUDP FI XHVMG PMA SMVNEWE, ESPSENRMSEL EES QLSA ZM YSFSHWY
RKBRDHTFHIRL UZ MIVNUDPV UD PMKHW HZLMDSP.  UNCPRSCHHWK, HZ FRSHD WYW
UDBPMGMFHIRL' MIVNUDPV HEIXK HRLNUGUDMARP, BRMUXENB RLA QNRQBV UIES PMLA
200 UQHIN EHQDHNQA FMVNEWE NQFQXUFISP IXSE UDPQCWQP, UDNBINUDP FRS
NADGSEVHGMSP UZ NQVUZUCWUK, UHRMDILA, HSWLXEXSLAUK, LAR DHVWMRLUD.
KDESQM QNRQBV ZM PMQ SMVVUIZNEHRMD NKFQLQPSX HZLSEV HCFASSAQMNLX
QHZHRYCHARZ BH XRMUXENB LE ZESPSCFUDF K WMHTESRSRLDGQ HQYRL UZ SCWYVHDF
PMWHIFU SMVNEDHSP PNIU PMKHE RIUSP LAW IZLMDSP QF PMKHC NUWSKDUARRQ.

PMS PQRUWR GWHRQBV UZ WMOBNAMDQFHID UDLUXSKB RIUUODUNQGMUW QUUWZ
BRMIFLEP.  SQXWWR PMQ HHXM QIUUIC UQPMIRV UZ WMOBNAMDQFHIR, LRMUXENL EES
HLUDP K-UQUV LAN K LKDHQPX WU AYR ASQRPCUWMD WMOBNAMDQFHIRL ZUCHQFB
RKDHSKN GWHU HF ZHW UNCPRSN ENQRKUHD MCFSERMLAPK.  Q-HKUS ABWUEDFSP ENY
PDWYUDF KF QA LBPUWHVMHDF NEPQ, ESZHCPKRXA 15 HSCNARF Q UICFM.  PRSX
NMWSARFBQ WUWBPMGMFQ YZSWHVOUQPQXA UEFU PMQ PNEZLMD UW ESPSENRM LAW
KRMNQFHIW LQPYWDEB.  HHWYHSKC, PRS FVMXLF PHESKN UZ Q-HKUS UEL SQAR XH
NEGHC GUEG MG ML RWY ZHBVMVSA ZUN EHQDHNQR LRMUXENB PI OPS MG ZM
WMOBNAMDQFY RMGM RUXSAKFHAV HW NXUPS ZM 140 MZRSC NIOCFDHSP.

MZRSC WYR YSRMLAPK ZUCHQFB RESQFKR XQ BRMIFLEP LAW IHSNEGMDF UW UDPQCWQP
UDNBINQ HHWQ PUEW 700 NUWPAESWNSP, DOPM QLIOF 80 TSERQCF UZ PMSPK RKSMZKR
ZM ZMGHRB UD PMS PMWUKX BDMARRQL EWR MOUQDUGMSP.  PMS EQFY HZ PWHCZM IZ
PMSPS PRMUXENXA ASQRPCUWMD WMAUSEARRQL EXBI HL EBPUWHVMHDF.  PNIU B990 FW
F991, 200 AYR WMAUSEARRQX RSEK HRKCFUGHKW ID UCFSERAF.  ZWHU IQMMXSE 1991
ZM HORA 1992, LA KNKDGMUWLF 150 WMAUSEARRQV HC FRS XHDMLF BRHKWNSP LAW
MOUQDUGMSP RYES KNRKC GM ZMHV RHDQRZMWE UZ VUBPUDPV.  BRMIFLEP UESK
SPFQLXHVRSR NUWPAESWNSP UD GDCPNLXVK QSKWE GUASR, DMGMHR ASKWE KDZLSEARZ
KDBRHGVURA.  ZUE SLYHTSA, PMSEQ YES NMWSARFBQ WXUPS ZM 600 QNGMSK XHDMLF
BRHKWNQ YWR MOUQDUGMSP  WMAUSEARRQX HC FHZMDB VMNU EL ECP LAW
ENRMMGQRFMES, QPURIUHLMDUXIZA, ZUXAVHWK, HEFLASPQ RNFFMES, HQKDNQX
KRMNQFHIA, LWR IDZFKR LAC GLFARPQR KNINQGMUW.  PMQ YZSQYB FH XRMUXENX HZ
WMOBNAMDQFUDP FREIOPI PMSPQ RUWPAESWNSP HV PMQF, NAVUEQ LAX WPMSE HQKDOU,
ASQRPCUWMD WMAUSEARRQB PIWYK HEIXDKQ Y ZUNHU THW FVMXLF WMOBNAMDQFHIW
DOPM HSSEL EZ BRS PNUWP QWR UZ PMS ESPQYCNR HWHRQBV.

UDPQEHESFQGMUW LAN KALXAVHX HP LIOCNSP WMRLGMFMPQB PRS PMHDR GWHRQBV UZ
BRMIFLNSQ WIUUODUNQGMUW PMQF UHRMASXHW RHVNMBVKR UD PQCHX HZ FYSPB LAW
PQBZNLS NSPIOCNSP.  PMQ HQPMIRV HLKR ZM LALFXOS PIOCNSP ULXV XHHQROSEY HW
Q NUWGMANOU PNIU AMLAGMFQGMSK LALFEXHV ZM AMLFMGQFDGQ YALXAVHB.
ZQGHNQXVK, QGDRKWNK HB RNFSAN KWR KSLFNLPQN IVHDF HQPMIWV RNEDW PNIU XMPM
ARRV UZ PMHV WMCFUDOLU.  QZ MRA ARC, KNLCFMGQFDGQ YALXAVHV HDLUXSKB PRS
HLY HT UQFRSUQGMNQS FWHRQBVSP LHRM EL Q NIOCF UZ PNQAHAWNHKL EWR
KDBPDHLMGMUWX HZ UWBHNESWNSP HW, UW E UDIRSN SKSAS, ESPDSPVHUW LALFEXHV.
QF PMY HPMSE ARW IZ FRS WMCFUDOLC, BNLVUFQGMSK LALFEXHV ZQGHNQXVX
UDXIXSSP WUCUQFRSUQGMNQS FWHRQBVSP HWHKCFKR ZMNYCR FLDFNLPK
UDPQEHESFQGMUW HW PMQ SOHVNUDZ IZ FRSHWK.  YPHQRPB UZ PMHV YWDE UDXIXSY
PMS HWHRQBVUDP--KMGRSC HLANLX UC NIUFHFQGMUWLF--UZ FLDPQ YWR XHHQGMHQB
UQBVDGQ YUINAPB UZ PQBZNLX BIOCNSP, LFPMIOPI PMA HPS UZ WUCFYSFMLF
XHHNRQL EP SGDRKWNS, PMNU EP HMIZMPDEFRP, XHNAR CQRHWKDDFL, PUVU TWZFQPK,
LAN KCPUGQNPB, HV VHFDUGMDLAF QX RASX.

BRMIFLEP UESK KDBRIXSEKR PMQF UQWA UZ PMQ HQPMIRV UZ UDPQEHESFQGMUW LAW
LALFEXHV PMQF ENS EASQFKR ZM XMPM AMLAGMFQGMSK LAC KNLVUFQGMSK HQPMIWB
ENS HWHRQBVSP PMQF NQC LS HSEZUCHKR XQ WMHTMFSEL.  PHW YSQUFSQ, RIUFHPQEP
NQW NIOCF.  PMQK NQW NIOCF SCHLR PPCIYSP HLKR UD E NQHSCLACG FEUDGMDF HW
HSNPHWH CKPESBVHIA LALXAVHL PHW NARKEPFQWRUDT DLNPS LAR KZLQRM.  TQ OQYRL
UZ KNLKWNKR PQRMWUXUIDSP, WMHTMFSEB RLA ESWMFDOGS HQFPQCWL, EALXAPY PQBZ,
LAC IIWAS WMWNSHPB.  UNCPRSCHHWQ, RIUFHPQEP NQW NIUFSQPQ PRSPS HEMWSPPSB
ULBPSE DOPM UIES XHHNRQL EWR DOPM PDQYPQE HESDMVHUW PMLA BRMIFLEP ROW
UOBP ESXA UW UQANLF UDPQEHESFQGMUW UZ NKFQ.  LMG MP LRMUXENL EES ZM HLY
WMHTMFSEL PHW PMSPS HWHRQBVSP, XHHNRQ UQPQDHLFB HHLM TK HA L ZUCH
QUARQLSA ZM WMHTMFSE-ELVHBPKR LALFEXHV.  ZUC PMHP EQYXHC ULAE XRMUXENB,
UWRQ PMQK UESK DKARGMGUKR PMS PIOCNSP PMQF ENQ EQK ZM PMKHW SSPQYCNU, EES
WMDLSEGMDF PMQH ZM UQRMUDS-EQYNKLXA PHWC.  MMOL, E ESHESPARFQGMSK YSQUFSY
UZ PMA ROUSEIOB PYSFMLF WMDLSEVHUW HEIHQRPB HWFKDUPYC VE XRMUXENL EWHNAW
PMY RHWVN UD ESRQCF KQENB PH XHFZHCP WMHTMFQFHIALB FYSF QALXAVHV HB PRS
FBP, FRS PMSPLNNHB XUDFIYQ PDYQNQQ.  PMHP HWHHKQM HV RKXIPQC GW
WMDLSEGMDF PMY SBZLAF QWNHKCF PQBZX HT NFLBVMDLF PDYSRQ.  (KRMGHW'L RMZY:
QNWMCRUDP FM ZRS FBF DYRBXQPPQW HT UYK B992, FVF NYV HA NPS UD PMHDZQ-ZCW
KDZLSEARM QIOCFDHSP.  PMHV GUFIES HFNKPQB HMDRSXBUW'P HESGDIOB RIOCF XQ UWY.)

PMS PRMUXENP HSEZUCHUDP FRSPS WMDLSEVHUWP RKLQ SYSA LVEKR ZM ESWMFDOGY
PMQF PMY SSAQMWHDUR BIOCNSP PMQK ENQ RUWSKCPUDP ZHW UWA HPS ZHBVSPB SLFHA
ZUW HPMSE ESPSENRM FHEHHXSP EL RYXV.  EL E NSPNFG, CHNUDP FRS FEBP PAY
KQENP, ROULAMGHKB VRMUXENP RKLK HDUGMQFKR L AOUSQW HZ TWHHKQMB PW
UDNCQYPS BRMIFLNSK YWBSPB PM WUWSKCPKR PQBZ.  XH, ZUE SLYHTSA, PMQ PYSZ
ARWMKDDF UDMGUKGMSK (PQU), KXMMF ROMDM UHWK HB VKUN VQFSE UD PMS HWHPDQU,
NYP SBPQLVUPRKR EL LA APZUCP XQ BRMIFLEP ZM RKPQCHUDS PFQWRENR KSAHQCFB
LAC IQPMIRV ZUE SWNIWUDT IQNMHRA-ESKNQLSA PQBZ ZUE SSAQMWHDUR QBWUEDFY.
UD E LQRUWR KZLHWZ BU ZQNUVMGQFQ PRS PRENUDZ IT NUWSKCPKR PQBZ, BRMIFLEP
UESK NCQYPQN K RAD ORLGMFMGMUW, PMQ RARPQN PHW ASQRPCUWMD PQBZV HC FRS
MOUQDUGMSP (RQPM).  PMQ RARPQE SBPHUQFSP PMQF PMSEQ YES 8,000 PSDHSP UZ
XHHNRQ PQBZV HC FRS MOUQDUGMSP PMQF UESK SQAR WMDLSEPQC GW
UQRMUDS-EQYNKLXA PHWO CHWVNDORK.  RQPM HV NARKCPYEUDF KD UCFSEALGMUWLF
PSENRM ZUC NUWSKCPKR PQBZ UD PMS ROULAMGHKB, RIUGHVUDF MG UDZM LA
ASQRPCUWMD VUSCENK, YWR HESHENUDT VMVVUIZNEHRMD RKBRDHTFHIRL UZ PMY
XHHNRQL PHW PMS ESPQYCNU SMVNEDHSP UDZUCHQFHIW LQPYWDE'P (EVUW)
UQRMUDS-EQYNKLXK RQFL UUVQ.  PRS VUSCENE ZWHPABVHIR UEL SQFIC FI HDUGMQFY
FLDPQ RUWSKEPHIR FWHHKQML EX RASX, BMNU EL EHQDHNQC UQHHWX.

ROUVS PRMUXENP RKLQ SYSC UYEUDT DUWSKCPKR PQBZ KLKUFLLXQ PW ZRA LAMZRSW,
ZQGHNQXVX WW RHVY IW HW NR-CIU, PMQ RSAEN PCARK DB PWYENC IYEUDP FRSPS
ESXHHNRQL ELKUVQLSA PMWHIFR ESPQYCNU EWR KRMNQFHIW LQPYWDEB.  PMOB, PRS
QUSEMDLA LAN GESWNR ESPQYCNM IC FRS PCQYLHWE UZ PMA PESWNU SLAFIKFY
(ENFZF) LWR PMK RLAPQ HEIHQRF QES LFESKNK YLKUVQLSA UW UDPQCWQP.
UHRMASXHR LOUUQDHPYC GMHB VQRGMUW UW UDPQEHESFQGMUW LAN KALXAVHB LX
WUGMDF PMQF:  1) UDNCQYVHDF ANCTSEX HP UOULAMGHKB VRMUXENV HC FRS VUSCENX
WMOBNAMGK YES ESWMFDOGUDP FRS HUZHCPLARQ ZM PMQ YKGLARQHQCF UZ
BRMIFLEPMHZ HP NQPWHPHQRGMSK WMDLSEVHUW UZ XHHNRQ UQPQDHLFV HC FRS ENPB
LAR IOULAMGHKL; EWR 2) PMSEK HL E PDWYUDP DQYVUFYGMUW PMQF UQVDDF PMY
XHHNRQL ELKUVQLSA UW ESPSENRM LAR KNINQGMUW RAZCHWEV UQVOUHPYB PRSHD
HLAPNFRABV ZUC PRS LALFEXHV HSNPHWHQC VE OOULAMGHKB VRMUXENB.

PMA PIOCPR HWHRQBV UZ BRMIFLNSQ WIUUODUNQGMUW HV KDBVQHUDQFHIW UZ
ESPSENRM GUWRUDPV, PMQF HV, FHLXMDQFHIR.  LRMUXENL EES HLUDP KVOBPUDZ
ESPSENRM LAR KNINQGMUW RAZCHWEV ZM ARIDRASE L AYR ZQHS UZ FHLXMDQFHIW:
BRMIFLNSQ-WUWPCUXSAK DIOCWLFB PUEF QES ASQRPCUWMDLFXA HEIWMNKR LAW
KDBVQHUDQFKR.  LFPMIOPI LHRM HIHNALXB ENS PGMXV QHSEIDDF EL Y
WMOBNAMDQFHIA UHWUQZ, BRSHD ANCTSE UEV PWHDW, PNIU EFHEWZHUQFASQ ZRYXSY
ZM PMHDZQ-VHV WHNUDP FRS FEBP KQEN (HOXA 1991 ZM HORA 1992).  UIBP UZ
PMSPY SSAQMWHDUR BRMUXENXA HIHNALXB ENK RKSMZKR ZM ZMGHRB UD PMY
MOUQDUGMSP.  EL DOPM RAZCHWQ DUWPAESWNSP, BRMIFLNSK QCFMOVHELU THW PMSPY
ASQRPCUWMD HIHNALXB BPQHL PWHC MRS HQKDOU'L HDUAMQ YVMVUZQ ZM KNLKWNY
BRMIFLEPMHG HA L NYQ ZUEF CW ZPMSE HQKDOU NQW RM XE XHFZHCPUDZ VXULQX
PAKRLQDQ LAK DCFSERMLAPK, HEQNGMNQXVK OW CQYB FHUY, SENXA UD PMS ESPQYCNO
HEMWSPB.  LQKUWR VRMUXENXA HIHNALXB, UHRMASXHW CQHENEQC GRS RKVUSKWE UZ
WMOBSEDMLF UNXV-PQBZ HEIWMNPB, LHRM EL ENGMNBSP UD HEUZSPVHUWLF HIHNALXB,
RARXSAZBSEB, HKFYFUDSP, DOES PSDSMDSP, LAR CAPSEARRQ XHHNRQB.  PRSPS ENY
SQUDI KASDGSEKR GDY UA-FUDA SMWLF VUSCENQ WQFLFIZHAP, SPHQRUKXVQ ZREIOPI
NR-WHHB.  UNCPRSCHHWQ, YWBHWKDDF ZM UHRMASXHC, FRSES HV PKRANEX UTFHUHVO
PMQF PMQ RHZEWDIMP LAN GYSV HBVHAV HHTKRUDP FRS RKVUSKWE UZ UNXV PQBZ UW
YSHVGMDF ESPSENRM LAR KNINQGMUW RAZCHWEV XHUW DOXV SQ ESXHXSKR.

PMA PUDLF HEMWSPX HP LRMUXENXA WMOBNAMDQFHID UB RHNDHNMFNI CKSASHZHQCF
LAK DRLPCMNGMUW, LAC GMHV HDLUXSKB PRS HLY HT NIUFHPQD HAUHWUQGMUW
PQRMWUXUIDSP UD ZCU YESEL.  PMA PHDBP HV PMK RKSASHZHQCF UZ
WMHTMFSE-HWHKCFKR UDBPNHQMHIALB FWZXB, ROMDM HWNFNRKB VHUNFQFHIRL,
UOBFHUKRUK EFFSMDQFHIRL, LAR NIUFHPQC PWZXB PMQF ENA HPSC GU YBVHVG MW
PMQ YALXAVHX HP LIOCNSP UD PMQ RFLBVWHIU, QPQ.  MRS HSEPAHP HWHHKQM, Y
NKFQLQPS PMQF HEIXDKSP Q UNFGMHQKDQ NHNDHNMFNU IW NFLBVMDLF PDYSY
DMGDVUFYGMUW, HV K FWZR KLYHTSA UZ PMY RYK UD ROMDR SCFHDQ RHNDHNMFL ENY
SQUDP DQRELF MVHDF UDZUCHQFHIC FQRURUXIZHKV.  HG ML ECFMDHGQFKR PMQF PMY
NMWSARG CUGGUNMBFK OR ABWUEDFUDP KSAQMWHDUNQXVQ WIUFHPQC-SELKR
UDBPNHQMHIALX BUZZCENY, RMHRM UD FMCW UQEQV HG CUGGUNMBF ZUW HRA BRMIFLW
ZM LMUVN IZHC FRS YWDE UZ MZRSEP, DOXV SQ ESXHXSKR SQZUES ZMU XUWZ.
BPLAN-KXURA NMWSMDNFEN EFFSMDQFHIRL PMQF UDXIXSY SSAQMWHDUQ MYSZ CUVX LY
PRENQLSA PMWHIFU RQPYWDEP, EKHAUHWDMDF PMKHE PDIDUGUNQWNQ YV HCFASSAQMNLX
HEIWMNPB EL RYXV EL UDBPNHQMHIALB FWZXB.

PMS PQRUWN KPHQRZ MP ASAQMWHDUN BQYCWUDI DDLUXSKB PRS HLY HP NSPQYCNU EWR
KRMNQFHIW LQPYWDEL PHW KDBPLARQ KRMNQFHIR FWHPDQUB.  VMNR HWHPDQUB
UDPQNEQMDGASA XUDQ GQYRMSEX RMGR PFMRKCFV HD FYHPDEFMHNQXVE XNQZBSEKR
XUNQGMUWL EWR ESXA UW PMQ YLKUVQLUVMGX WP ASAQMWHDUD MRLPCMNGMUWLF
ESXHHNRQV.  RHVFQWNY SNINQGMUW HEIZNEHB ENK PKUDUDF DORK EFHSLF QUUWZ
BPQFK RSHENMCARPB UZ KRMNQFHIC LQRLNPS UZ PMKHC RQHUWBPNEPQR NEFQNMGQ ZW
SCUDF KKGLARQR VHSDMLFOGKR WMHNPS YWDE LAN KA LWSYK UZ YSHSCPB PI ULAX
NBELPEWZHB.  E NQRARP CSHHWF ZIOWR PMQF QF SAELP 32 BFQPQX HHSNEPQN KZ
SAELZ MRA BPQFYRDKA RQPYWDE ZUE SNINQGMUW UD 1991, DOPM RAZCHWEV NARKW
RKSKXUTHARG MC ULAX WZ FRS ESUQUDUDP VFQPQB.

UHRMASXHR LOUUQDHPYC GMHB VQRGMUW XQ WUGMDF ZCH XPCDVUDT DUEDFSP FQVDDF
FSQNK HR LRMUXENXA WMOBNAMDQFHIA LUIDF MOUQDUGMSP BRMIFLEP.  GUEPG MB PRS
YSPQCF ZM ROMDR SSAQMWHDUQ MYSG MR FENGMNMFLN, EWR ASQRPCUWMD ESXHHNRQB
UD PKRANEF, LES SQUDI DAUHLKR UDZM QYRM UZ PMA PDGS HWHRQBVSP RKBRDHSQW
QLIXQ.  YB HARGMUWKR QYNSHKC, PRSES HV Q NSEFQUD XERADPK YZ CHWE ISEY.
PMA HPS UZ ASQRPCUWMD ESXHHNRQL PHW UWS HWHRQBV PQWRB PH XGMUOFLPQ MGB
HLA PHW MZRSE HWHRQBVSP, SQNQHLQ PRS RMHKT NIOEPY HT UIXQHARG MB PWYENN K
WMHTESRSRLDGY HA-FUDY RHWVDDF WMCFYSF ZHW MOUQDUGMSP BRMIFLEP PMQF
UDNBINSP UW-VURA KLKUFLVMVUZQ UZ EQQ XMVVUIZNEHRHKB, VRMUXENXA PAKRLQDQ,
XHHNRQL, EALXAGMNQB FWZXB, LAR GMLVUNQGMUWB.  HMDRSXBUW WUPQN GHNPMSE
PMQF PMQ HIXQHARZ BWYENN K WMHTESRSRLDGY HA-FUDY RHWVDDF WMCFYSF ZHW
MOUQDUGMSP BRMIFLEP HV WUF CYR.  UD ULQM, MG UEB LYSA NWRSENYA ZHW UIES
PMLA ZUCPX ZQYEP UD PMS ROULAMGHKB, VUDRQ ULPMSE WHSQCPM XHLQ LKPLA
RKSKXUGHDF LA ASQRPCUWMD WMWNHWNKWNY HZ FRS YWDEX HP LKUCF PMIUEL YAOHALB
UD 1949.  ROQF RY ENY RMGRABVUDP FIWYK, UHRMASXHW NUWPQWRKR, HV WUZ BRS
SQIDWLUDZ IZ FMHX HA-FUDQ PNERLMGHIC LMF, ZUN EF BQYBP XHHQ MOUQDUGMSP
BRMIFLEP, PMQ PHNDUDF ZHUDG MC FRS PCLAVHGMUW PNIU E FDHCF ZM LA
ASQRPCUWMD YWDEUDT DUWPQBZ.  WMUDDMKDDF DOPM PMY HA-FUDQ PNERLMGHIC, FRS
PSWMWR BPDHVDDF RMLAPK HV PMY SBZARZ BW YMHRM ESPSENRM LAR KNINQGMUW
RAZCHWEV ENQ SQRIUUDP FRS RAC OKRHOU IP LRMUXENXA WMOBNAMDQFHIC.  FRS
YSHVGMDF UDPQCWQP LAC GRS HSWRUDF DQFHIALS ANINQGMUW LAR CSPQYCNU RQPYWDE
(WCAR) ESHESPARZ BRS RAC OYSGMDF PDIOWR ROSES PRMUXENL EES ZIUDP ZHW
VMLXHIPDEFMHD MAUHWUQGMUW, BRMIFLNSK WUKXUFIQ YWR PAKRLQDQ, PMQ HHXZ
NMWSARF TMLVUNQGMUWV HC FRSHD GUASN, KWR MHPI-SASKS ANINQGMUWLF
UZPADHDFB.  PNEKDGMUWLF BRMIFLNSE ZNEQMMDSP ENA HWRSEZIUDP FESHQWRIOB
PCLALPHWUQGMUWL EL E ESLHBF UZ PMY SHQDPARRQ LAK IWHDODF HEIUUDARRQ UZ
ROQF HV NQXVKR RAZCHWQ-IKRUKPQR VRMUXENPRHG.

UHRMASXHW LYSZ BHNRAC GM ZRS PSWMWR ASQHARZ MZ FRS PNQUYRHWE VRS HEHZHXKR
QF PMY HMFPSZ MP USE FQVA ZUE SLKFNQFUDP FRS HEHXHSQML PHW ASQRPCUWMD
PQBZ, ALHQXA PMQ EQK UDZUCHQFHIC FQRURUXIZQ ZESWRL EZLQRGMDF PMQ RUWNIQM
UZ BRMIFLNSQ WIUUODUNQGMUW IXSE PMA RYSG CQRKNY:  1) SWR-HLSE WMHTMFUDZ
LAR 2) NUWRAQMDGMGX.

ARN-IPSC NIUFHGMDF HQLAB PUEZ BRS HSEPUW ZMMNMHDF PMQ EQKXMENW, IW
HSNPHWUHDF WMHTMFQFHIRL, HV PMS PQUQ YB PRS HSEPUW ROI HDUGMQFSP HW
WMRLOUSP PMQ RIUFHFQGMUW.  PMY SHQDPARRQ UZ HSEPUWLF WMHTMFSEL, EXUDF
DOPM E UHXZ MZ UPMSE ZUCNSP, LHRM EL MLMKOHZMHL WMHTMFUDF, KKGLARQV HW
UDPQNPQNK RSPDIA, LWR PMY HA-FUDQ PNERLMGHID, UP HWHHTGMDF PMQ RUWLHHQEP
UZ WMHTMFQFHIC FI WM ZRSHD WYW NIUFHGMDF, LAK DB PMOP EARRKDHDF MXXHSAPQ
PMQ PNEKDGMUWLF KDBPUDQMHIC LQPRYAR ARN IPSEP LAN IBFHUQFA HPSEP.

PMQ PESWR ZMNYCR ARN-IPSC NIUFHGMDF HV VHFDUGMDLAZ BM WUWVHRKNEGMUW UZ
PMS HWHPHQRPB ZUE SSAQMWHDUQ MYSPB SQNQHLK HM CQYRL PMQF ESPSENRMSEL EES
SQWMUHDF UIES KNSHF QG CIHDF PMKHW HDW WMHTMFQFHIRL LAC, GMOB, HHWY
WMHTQPARG MC FRS HLY HP ASAQMWHDUQ CKRUK.  XQ KLIHKDDF HEIZNEOBSE
UDPQCHKRUKDHSP, WMHTMFQFHID UB LQRIUUDT DARPCLF ZM PMS ESPQYCNRSE'P
PMIOPIF TWHRQBV.  PMHV KDESQM UDXIXSQHARG MW NIUFHGMDF HV RMLAIDDF PMY
ESPSENRMSE'P HSEPHQRGMSK UW PMA RQFHNY HP NSPQYCNM HPBASZ, FUEG MB, PRS
VDWRX HT AHABPHIRL PMQF NQC LS HHXKR, PMQ YALXAGMNQB UQPMIWIXUIDSP PMQF
NQC LA HPSC, GRS ZQHSL EWR QUIOCF UZ XHHNRQB PUEF QES EFHEHZDHQFA PHW
LALFEXSP, LAC GRS ZUCH UD ROMDU PUDKDDFL EES HESPARPQC.  GRS PCARC GWYENW
ARN-IPSC NIUFHGMDF HQLAB PUEG, MWNESELUDFVK, QSAQMWHDUQ CKRUK LAW
WMHTMFQFHIA LES SQUDI DAUHLKR UDZM LFS FWHRQBVSP UZ MOUQDUGMSP
BRMIFLEPMHG, HRLGHDHDF ESUQDEQLSA PCLALPHWUQGMUWV HR LRMUXENXA
WMOBNAMDQFHIW.

PMQ PESWR ZMNYCR PDQYPQC NUWRAQMDGMGE XIFPKBPB PUEP CSPQYCNRSEP ENA HVHDF
WMHTMFQFHID UWNESELUDFVK OW LQPYWDE ARGDWHCUARPB.  WMWLQRGMGDZQ HV
HUZHCPLAZ BH XRMUXENPRHG SQNQHLK HP QNEPSB PRS KDBPLARQ PMQF PSFENEPQB
BPINARPB PNIU PQQNRSEP LAR VRMUXENL PWHC MRSHD WMXVQYFISP, ROUVQ YXVWYUDZ
HLSEB PU YWBSPP EQHMZK RQFQLELSP, PRENK HAUHWUQGMUW UD UQWA KDZLSEARZ
HQKDQ, NUWRAQM ZM PMKHC DHWVDDF WMCFYSZ CRSESSKC PRSK YES, LAW
WMXVQLHWQFK HA LXV HRELSP UZ ESPSENRM.

PMQ RIUVMALGMUW UZ PMQ PESWR ZMNYCR ARN-IPSC NIUFHGMDF LAC GRS PCARW
ZMNYCR WMWLQRGMGDZQ LHZVSPPB PMQF PMS PRMUXENXA HLY HP ASAQMWHDUW
ESXHHNRQL, ESNQYWK KSDKARF QUIDF XHHQ ESPSENRMSEX, RUVX BWZC LQRIUQ YW
SPFQLXHVRSN GQYFMES UZ BRMIFLEPMHT.  FRS APPAQMX HZ FRSPS PCARRV, LFUWZ
DOPM UWZIUDT DUEDFSP UD BRMIFLNSE ZNEQMMDSP, ZHUDZ BU Y UNFMES UD ROMDO
MOUQDUGMSP ESPSENRMSEX RUVF NPS WMHTMFQFHIA LWR ASQRPCUWMD WMOBNAMDQFHIW
ZM RSSF PMQH ZUCHNFQFK HRKEL, QNRQBV XHHNRQP, HSEZUCH ESPSENRM,
WMXVQLHWQFY RMGM RUXSAKFHAB, VYSE GYSW SKSHKR, ZMLVUPR LAW VHVPSUHALPQ
ESLHBFL, EWR ARFKPK UD UQWA MZRSE HWHPABVHIALF LWR KRMNQFHIALF LQMDGMGHKB.

UD LHOBENQ, OMDRSXBUW QHHRELOGKR ZUHN ZHUDPB:  1) E FHWGMUW UZ MOUQDUGMSP
BRMIFLEP LFESKNQ WUWVHRKE SSAQMWHDUQ MYSPB PMS HESPAWSKR ZUCHQF ZUW
LALFEXHV LAW VHVPSUHALGMUW.  2) BRMIFLEP ENA HVHDF PMSPY SSAQMWHDUW
PQBZV, HW NUWHOWNGMUW DOPM MZRSE SSAQMWHDUN CSPIOCNSP, UD LFB FRS
HEMWSPPSX HP LRMUXENXA WMOBNAMDQFHIC.  3) FRS MOUQDUGMSP BRMIFLEP'
YWDEUDT DUWPQBZ HV UD PMS HWHRQBV UZ RMLAIDDF PNIU HEUDZ BQRURUXIZQ ZW
ASQRPCUWMD PQRMWUXUZK, UD UQWA NYEX UHWSHWUDP FNERLZUCHQFHIRL PMQF UESK
MWNMWSKR HW ENY HWBHNDHDF DOPMUD PMS PDMARGMGUW BIUUODUZQ.  4) PMSPY
RMLAPKL EES MWNMWSUDI DW NUWHOWNGMUW DOPM PMK RKSASHZHQCF UZ L AYR
WMOBNAMDQFHIC UKRHOH:  CSPQYCNU EWR KRMNQFHIW LQPYWDEB PUEF QES
RMENQNPQDHPYC VQ ZRSHD NQFEDMZQ ZM KNLKWNS PRMUXENPRHG UD Y NMIXVA ODUAMY
NYX.

UHRMASXHA LXBH WKHPQNEPQR ISE PMESS HDHWNHGLF ENFIHQCFB:  X) ASQRPCUWMD
PQBZL EES SQBP NARKEPZMIW UD PQCHX HZ FRS ESFLGMUWPRHG ZM MZRSW
ASQRPCUWMD ESXHHNRQL EWR PMK PWHDODF HEIUUDARRQ UZ RAZCHWQ-IKRUKPQW
BRMIFLEPMHT.  2) FRS HEHXHSQML PHW ASQRPCUWMD PQBZB XHK UD PMKHC NEFQNMGX
ZM SQ UDPQPDQFKR UDZM PMY HA-FUDA RQPYWDE UZ ASQRPCUWMD ESXHHNRQB PUEZ
WMHTDHPS PMA RYR YWDEUDT DUWPQBZ ZUE PRMUXENP.  3) EQPWHPHQRGMSK WMDLSEVHUW
UZ ZHCPHIRL UZ PMS PRMUXENXA ESWMCR PRIOVN SQ Y EQK BPNEPQZK EL UDZUCHQFHIW
HEIXDKSEP ESPZHWR ZM RMLAPKV HR LRMUXENXA WMOBNAMDQFHIR FNEQMMDSP.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
SKWBUK * QU'P SLKFNQFHIR FWHHKQM LAR GMLVUN MPSEP UZ ASQRPCUWMD ESXHHNRQB
* QU LAK DPB RKVHFD * VHPQ PSSAQMHIA LWR KSLFNLGMDF PMQ HQNUDZMPR
HUFSQHARFQGMUW UZ QU * RMENQNPQDHBPMDX HZ FRS VHS ZMLVUN BMVNEDHSP
PSSAQMKR * RMENQNPQDHBPMDX HU LH'B HLSEV HC FRSPS VUSCENHKP * HDHWNHGLF
NYEX QU HV SQUDF IPSW *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

LHLED LQRDMQ, FQYU BQYRKN, EWR HILARA PNYSUQA, LBVMWUKPQ WMHWKDALZMW,
QUSEMDLA HQUIWE, VUSCENX WT NUWPDSPV, PKLQ Y HIUDF TESPSCFQFHIA.  UHDBP,
XQ NYX WG UCFWHNIQMHID, LQRDMY QSZFLUDKR RSN EWR PNYSUQR'L WHSAV HW
QUSEMDLA HQUIWE (QU).  PSDSUDP TDHWNHGLFXA EL LA MXPSDSSE, SKWBUK UEB
ELVHBPKR DOPM PMY SLKFNQFHIR FWHHKQM UZ QU, FSQNUDF KC QUXSAQMHIRL UD Y
LKDHQPX WG NUGPAESCF VHPQL EWHNAC GRS WMNAPCK YWR RSSFUDP FW ZDPLAOGQ YWR
HUFSQHARZ BUEF TWHHKQM.  PNYSUQR UEL SQAR LA ELXHDMQFQ RWZCRUDQFHW UZ QU
LAR IEL SQAR UDXIXSKR HEUDDMFEXVX YMGM PRS UDPQEHESFQGMSK UQPQDHLFB,
HESHENUDP VIUY HZ FRS ASQRPCUWMD YSMHVMPB LAR GDHCFKR MHBPHWMDLF
UDZUCHQFHIC FUEF QWBIUFEDUSP QU LAC GUEG MP EQAHABPKR XQ HLSEB.  SQRDMY
LAN GESQHLA PRENKR LAQRWIFQX ULBSELKGMUWB RUWRQCWUDF KO CMGR HMLVUN MPSEP
UZ ASQRPCUWMD ESXHHNRQL.  RMZDOPMBPLAKDDF L UKUNSE XPCMNFMESR KLKFNQFHIW
UD HEIZESBV, XMPM SKWBUK LAN GESQHLA RMHXA RMZ ZM ESZHCP UW PHQRUGMDV HW
PQCHX HU AOUSQEP, QPQ., TQRLNPS PMQK PABF MG NYB PWZ QYNSK OC FRS
KSLFNLGMUW HEIHQRZ BI WH XW.

QU HV LA ASQRPCUWMD ENRMDGY HZ TDHUQWE XHHNRQ UQPQDHLFL PWHC MRS VUSCENX
UZ WMDFESBV, PSSAQMKR WMXVQRGMUWP ESHESPSCFUDF K LKDHQPX WZ LHWUQPB--
HRMZIZNEHRV, PNEHRMD ENPB, ESWMCRKR XHNAC, IMZHIR FMDFMESB, LWHKNVHRKB,
LAR VWZR, FQUHRSAPB LAC VWZEV.  UD PQCHX HZ FRS RKVHFD UZ PMHV XEBPQH,
PMK HCFSEHEQPQFDGY SSOMVMGP RKLQ SYSD ASHP BSHENQFA PWHC MRS HEHUENX
