in microfilm.  POB would seek material that was out of copyright.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
BARONAS * Origin and scope of AIIM * Types of documents produced in
AIIM's standards program * Domain of AIIM's standardization work * AIIM's
structure * TC 171 and MS23 * Electronic image management standards *
Categories of EIM standardization where AIIM standards are being
developed *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Jean BARONAS, senior manager, Department of Standards and Technology,
Association for Information and Image Management (AIIM), described the
not-for-profit association and the national and international programs
for standardization in which AIIM is active.

Accredited for twenty-five years as the nation's standards development
organization for document image management, AIIM began life in a library
community developing microfilm standards.  Today the association
maintains both its library and business-image management standardization
activities--and has moved into electronic image-management
standardization (EIM).

BARONAS defined the program's scope.  AIIM deals with:  1) the
terminology of standards and of the technology it uses; 2) methods of
measurement for the systems, as well as quality; 3) methodologies for
users to evaluate and measure quality; 4) the features of apparatus used
to manage and edit images; and 5) the procedures used to manage images.

BARONAS noted that three types of documents are produced in the AIIM
standards program:  the first two, accredited by the American National
Standards Institute (ANSI), are standards and standard recommended
practices.  Recommended practices differ from standards in that they
contain more tutorial information.  A technical report is not an ANSI
standard.  Because AIIM's policies and procedures for developing
standards are approved by ANSI, its standards are labeled ANSI/AIIM,
followed by the number and title of the standard.

BARONAS then illustrated the domain of AIIM's standardization work.  For
example, AIIM is the administrator of the U.S. Technical Advisory Group
(TAG) to the International Standards Organization's (ISO) technical
committee, TC l7l Micrographics and Optical Memories for Document and
Image Recording, Storage, and Use.  AIIM officially works through ANSI in
the international standardization process.

BARONAS described AIIM's structure, including its board of directors, its
standards board of twelve individuals active in the image-management
industry, its strategic planning and legal admissibility task forces, and
its National Standards Council, which is comprised of the members of a
number of organizations who vote on every AIIM standard before it is
published.  BARONAS pointed out that AIIM's liaisons deal with numerous
other standards developers, including the optical disk community, office
and publishing systems, image-codes-and-character set committees, and the
National Information Standards Organization (NISO).

BARONAS illustrated the procedures of TC l7l, which covers all aspects of
image management.  When AIIM's national program has conceptualized a new
project, it is usually submitted to the international level, so that the
member countries of TC l7l can simultaneously work on the development of
the standard or the technical report.  BARONAS also illustrated a classic
microfilm standard, MS23, which deals with numerous imaging concepts that
apply to electronic imaging.  Originally developed in the l970s, revised
in the l980s, and revised again in l991, this standard is scheduled for
another revision.  MS23 is an active standard whereby users may propose
new density ranges and new methods of evaluating film images in the
standard's revision.

BARONAS detailed several electronic image-management standards, for
instance, ANSI/AIIM MS44, a quality-control guideline for scanning 8.5"
by 11" black-and-white office documents.  This standard is used with the
IEEE fax image--a continuous tone photographic image with gray scales,
text, and several continuous tone pictures--and AIIM test target number
2, a representative document used in office document management.

BARONAS next outlined the four categories of EIM standardization in which
AIIM standards are being developed:  transfer and retrieval, evaluation,
optical disc and document scanning applications, and design and
conversion of documents.  She detailed several of the main projects of
each:  1) in the category of image transfer and retrieval, a bi-level
image transfer format, ANSI/AIIM MS53, which is a proposed standard that
describes a file header for image transfer between unlike systems when
the images are compressed using G3 and G4 compression; 2) the category of
image evaluation, which includes the AIIM-proposed TR26 tutorial on image
resolution (this technical report will treat the differences and
similarities between classical or photographic and electronic imaging);
3) design and conversion, which includes a proposed technical report
called "Forms Design Optimization for EIM" (this report considers how
general-purpose business forms can be best designed so that scanning is
optimized; reprographic characteristics such as type, rules, background,
tint, and color will likewise be treated in the technical report); 4)
disk and document scanning applications includes a project a) on planning
platters and disk management, b) on generating an application profile for
EIM when images are stored and distributed on CD-ROM, and c) on
evaluating SCSI2, and how a common command set can be generated for SCSI2
so that document scanners are more easily integrated.  (ANSI/AIIM MS53
will also apply to compressed images.)

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
BATTIN * The implications of standards for preservation * A major
obstacle to successful cooperation * A hindrance to access in the digital
environment * Standards a double-edged sword for those concerned with the
preservation of the human record * Near-term prognosis for reliable
archival standards * Preservation concerns for electronic media * Need
for reconceptualizing our preservation principles * Standards in the real
world and the politics of reproduction * Need to redefine the concept of
archival and to begin to think in terms of life cycles * Cooperation and
the La Guardia Eight * Concerns generated by discussions on the problems
of preserving text and image * General principles to be adopted in a
world without standards *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Patricia BATTIN, president, the Commission on Preservation and Access
(CPA), addressed the implications of standards for preservation.  She
listed several areas where the library profession and the analog world of
the printed book had made enormous contributions over the past hundred
years--for example, in bibliographic formats, binding standards, and, most
important, in determining what constitutes longevity or archival quality.

Although standards have lightened the preservation burden through the
development of national and international collaborative programs,
nevertheless, a pervasive mistrust of other people's standards remains a
major obstacle to successful cooperation, BATTIN said.

The zeal to achieve perfection, regardless of the cost, has hindered
rather than facilitated access in some instances, and in the digital
environment, where no real standards exist, has brought an ironically
just reward.

BATTIN argued that standards are a double-edged sword for those concerned
with the preservation of the human record, that is, the provision of
access to recorded knowledge in a multitude of media as far into the
future as possible.  Standards are essential to facilitate
interconnectivity and access, but, BATTIN said, as LYNCH pointed out
yesterday, if set too soon they can hinder creativity, expansion of
capability, and the broadening of access.  The characteristics of
standards for digital imagery differ radically from those for analog
imagery.  And the nature of digital technology implies continuing
volatility and change.  To reiterate, precipitous standard-setting can
inhibit creativity, but delayed standard-setting results in chaos.

Since in BATTIN'S opinion the near-term prognosis for reliable archival
standards, as defined by librarians in the analog world, is poor, two
alternatives remain:  standing pat with the old technology, or
reconceptualizing.

Preservation concerns for electronic media fall into two general domains.
One is the continuing assurance of access to knowledge originally
generated, stored, disseminated, and used in electronic form.  This
domain contains several subdivisions, including 1) the closed,
proprietary systems discussed the previous day, bundled information such
as electronic journals and government agency records, and electronically
produced or captured raw data; and 2) the application of digital
technologies to the reformatting of materials originally published on a
deteriorating analog medium such as acid paper or videotape.

The preservation of electronic media requires a reconceptualizing of our
preservation principles during a volatile, standardless transition which
may last far longer than any of us envision today.  BATTIN urged the
necessity of shifting focus from assessing, measuring, and setting
standards for the permanence of the medium to the concept of managing
continuing access to information stored on a variety of media and
requiring a variety of ever-changing hardware and software for access--a
fundamental shift for the library profession.

BATTIN offered a primer on how to move forward with reasonable confidence
in a world without standards.  Her comments fell roughly into two sections:
1) standards in the real world and 2) the politics of reproduction.

In regard to real-world standards, BATTIN argued the need to redefine the
concept of archive and to begin to think in terms of life cycles.  In
the past, the naive assumption that paper would last forever produced a
cavalier attitude toward life cycles.  The transient nature of the
electronic media has compelled people to recognize and accept upfront the
concept of life cycles in place of permanency.

Digital standards have to be developed and set in a cooperative context
to ensure efficient exchange of information.  Moreover, during this
transition period, greater flexibility concerning how concepts such as
backup copies and archival copies in the CXP are defined is necessary,
or the opportunity to move forward will be lost.

In terms of cooperation, particularly in the university setting, BATTIN
also argued the need to avoid going off in a hundred different
directions.  The CPA has catalyzed a small group of universities called
the La Guardia Eight--because La Guardia Airport is where meetings take
place--Harvard, Yale, Cornell, Princeton, Penn State, Tennessee,
Stanford, and USC, to develop a digital preservation consortium to look
at all these issues and develop de facto standards as we move along,
instead of waiting for something that is officially blessed.  Continuing
to apply analog values and definitions of standards to the digital
environment, BATTIN said, will effectively lead to forfeiture of the
benefits of digital technology to research and scholarship.

Under the second rubric, the politics of reproduction, BATTIN reiterated
an oft-made argument concerning the electronic library, namely, that it
is more difficult to transform than to create, and nowhere is that belief
expressed more dramatically than in the conversion of brittle books to
new media.  Preserving information published in electronic media involves
making sure the information remains accessible and that digital
information is not lost through reproduction.  In the analog world of
photocopies and microfilm, the issue of fidelity to the original becomes
paramount, as do issues of "Whose fidelity?" and "Whose original?"

BATTIN elaborated these arguments with a few examples from a recent study
conducted by the CPA on the problems of preserving text and image.
Discussions with scholars, librarians, and curators in a variety of
disciplines dependent on text and image generated a variety of concerns,
for example:  1) Copy what is, not what the technology is capable of.
This is very important for the history of ideas.  Scholars wish to know
what the author saw and worked from.  And make available at the
workstation the opportunity to erase all the defects and enhance the
presentation.  2) The fidelity of reproduction--what is good enough, what
can we afford, and the difference it makes--issues of subjective versus
objective resolution.  3) The differences between primary and secondary
users.  Restricting the definition of primary user to the one in whose
discipline the material has been published runs one headlong into the
reality that these printed books have had a host of other users from a
host of other disciplines, who not only were looking for very different
things, but who also shared values very different from those of the
primary user.  4) The relationship of the standard of reproduction to new
capabilities of scholarship--the browsing standard versus an archival
standard.  How good must the archival standard be?  Can a distinction be
drawn between potential users in setting standards for reproduction?
Archival storage, use copies, browsing copies--ought an attempt to set
standards even be made?  5) Finally, costs.  How much are we prepared to
pay to capture absolute fidelity?  What are the trade-offs between vastly
enhanced access, degrees of fidelity, and costs?

These standards, BATTIN concluded, serve to complicate further the
reproduction process, and add to the long list of technical standards
that are necessary to ensure widespread access.  Ways to articulate and
analyze the costs that are attached to the different levels of standards
must be found.

Given the chaos concerning standards, which promises to linger for the
foreseeable future, BATTIN urged adoption of the following general
principles:

     * Strive to understand the changing information requirements of
     scholarly disciplines as more and more technology is integrated into
     the process of research and scholarly communication in order to meet
     future scholarly needs, not to build for the past.  Capture
     deteriorating information at the highest affordable resolution, even
     though the dissemination and display technologies will lag.

     * Develop cooperative mechanisms to foster agreement on protocols
     for document structure and other interchange mechanisms necessary
     for widespread dissemination and use before official standards are
     set.

     * Accept that, in a transition period, de facto standards will have
     to be developed.

     * Capture information in a way that keeps all options open and
     provides for total convertibility:  OCR, scanning of microfilm,
     producing microfilm from scanned documents, etc.

     * Work closely with the generators of information and the builders
     of networks and databases to ensure that continuing accessibility is
     a primary concern from the beginning.

     * Piggyback on standards under development for the broad market, and
     avoid library-specific standards; work with the vendors, in order to
     take advantage of that which is being standardized for the rest of
     the world.

     * Concentrate efforts on managing permanence in the digital world,
     rather than perfecting the longevity of a particular medium.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Additional comments on TIFF *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the brief discussion period that followed BATTIN's presentation,
BARONAS explained that TIFF was not developed in collaboration with or
under the auspices of AIIM.  TIFF is a company product, not a standard,
is owned by two corporations, and is always changing.  BARONAS also
observed that ANSI/AIIM MS53, a bi-level image file transfer format that
allows unlike systems to exchange images, is compatible with TIFF as well
as with DEC's architecture and IBM's MODCA/IOCA.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
HOOTON * Several questions to be considered in discussing text conversion
*
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

HOOTON introduced the final topic, text conversion, by noting that it is
becoming an increasingly important part of the imaging business.  Many
people now realize that it enhances their system to be able to have more
and more character data as part of their imaging system.  Re the issue of
OCR versus rekeying, HOOTON posed several questions:  How does one get
text into computer-readable form?  Does one use automated processes?
Does one attempt to eliminate the use of operators where possible?
Standards for accuracy, he said, are extremely important:  it makes a
major difference in cost and time whether one sets as a standard 98.5
percent acceptance or 99.5 percent.  He mentioned outsourcing as a
possibility for converting text.  Finally, what one does with the image
to prepare it for the recognition process is also important, he said,
because such preparation changes how recognition is viewed, as well as
facilitates recognition itself.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
LESK * Roles of participants in CORE * Data flow * The scanning process *
The image interface * Results of experiments involving the use of
electronic resources and traditional paper copies * Testing the issue of
serendipity * Conclusions *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Michael LESK, executive director, Computer Science Research, Bell
Communications Research, Inc. (Bellcore), discussed the Chemical Online
Retrieval Experiment (CORE), a cooperative project involving Cornell
University, OCLC, Bellcore, and the American Chemical Society (ACS).

LESK spoke on 1) how the scanning was performed, including the unusual
feature of page segmentation, and 2) the use made of the text and the
image in experiments.

Working with the chemistry journals (because ACS has been saving its
typesetting tapes since the mid-1970s and thus has a significant back-run
of the most important chemistry journals in the United States), CORE is
attempting to create an automated chemical library.  Approximately a
quarter of the pages by square inch are made up of images of
quasi-pictorial material; dealing with the graphic components of the
pages is extremely important.  LESK described the roles of participants
in CORE:  1) ACS provides copyright permission, journals on paper,
journals on microfilm, and some of the definitions of the files; 2) at
Bellcore, LESK chiefly performs the data preparation, while Dennis Egan
performs experiments on the users of chemical abstracts, and supplies the
indexing and numerous magnetic tapes;  3) Cornell provides the site of the
experiment; 4) OCLC develops retrieval software and other user interfaces.
Various manufacturers and publishers have furnished other help.

Concerning data flow, Bellcore receives microfilm and paper from ACS; the
microfilm is scanned by outside vendors, while the paper is scanned
inhouse on an Improvision scanner, twenty pages per minute at 300 dpi,
which provides sufficient quality for all practical uses.  LESK would
prefer to have more gray level, because one of the ACS journals prints on
some colored pages, which creates a problem.

Bellcore performs all this scanning, creates a page-image file, and also
selects from the pages the graphics, to mix with the text file (which is
discussed later in the Workshop).  The user is always searching the ASCII
file, but she or he may see a display based on the ASCII or a display
based on the images.

LESK illustrated how the program performs page analysis, and the image
interface.  (The user types several words, is presented with a list--
usually of the titles of articles contained in an issue--that derives
from the ASCII, clicks on an icon and receives an image that mirrors an
ACS page.)  LESK also illustrated an alternative interface, based on text
on the ASCII, the so-called SuperBook interface from Bellcore.

LESK next presented the results of an experiment conducted by Dennis Egan
and involving thirty-six students at Cornell, one third of them
undergraduate chemistry majors, one third senior undergraduate chemistry
majors, and one third graduate chemistry students.  A third of them
received the paper journals, the traditional paper copies and chemical
abstracts on paper.  A third received image displays of the pictures of
the pages, and a third received the text display with pop-up graphics.

The students were given several questions made up by some chemistry
professors.  The questions fell into five classes, ranging from very easy
to very difficult, and included questions designed to simulate browsing
as well as a traditional information retrieval-type task.

LESK furnished the following results.  In the straightforward question
search--the question being, what is the phosphorus oxygen bond distance
and hydroxy phosphate?--the students were told that they could take
fifteen minutes and, then, if they wished, give up.  The students with
paper took more than fifteen minutes on average, and yet most of them
gave up.  The students with either electronic format, text or image,
received good scores in reasonable time, hardly ever had to give up, and
usually found the right answer.

In the browsing study, the students were given a list of eight topics,
told to imagine that an issue of the Journal of the American Chemical
Society had just appeared on their desks, and were also told to flip
through it and to find topics mentioned in the issue.  The average scores
were about the same.  (The students were told to answer yes or no about
whether or not particular topics appeared.)  The errors, however, were
quite different.  The students with paper rarely said that something
appeared when it had not.  But they often failed to find something
actually mentioned in the issue.  The computer people found numerous
things, but they also frequently said that a topic was mentioned when it
was not.  (The reason, of course, was that they were performing word
searches.  They were finding that words were mentioned and they were
concluding that they had accomplished their task.)

This question also contained a trick to test the issue of serendipity.
The students were given another list of eight topics and instructed,
without taking a second look at the journal, to recall how many of this
new list of eight topics were in this particular issue.  This was an
attempt to see if they performed better at remembering what they were not
looking for.  They all performed about the same, paper or electronics,
about 62 percent accurate.  In short, LESK said, people were not very
good when it came to serendipity, but they were no worse at it with
computers than they were with paper.

(LESK gave a parenthetical illustration of the learning curve of students
who used SuperBook.)

The students using the electronic systems started off worse than the ones
using print, but by the third of the three sessions in the series had
caught up to print.  As one might expect, electronics provide a much
better means of finding what one wants to read; reading speeds, once the
object of the search has been found, are about the same.

Almost none of the students could perform the hard task--the analogous
transformation.  (It would require the expertise of organic chemists to
complete.)  But an interesting result was that the students using the text
search performed terribly, while those using the image system did best.
That the text search system is driven by text offers the explanation.
Everything is focused on the text; to see the pictures, one must press
on an icon.  Many students found the right article containing the answer
to the question, but they did not click on the icon to bring up the right
figure and see it.  They did not know that they had found the right place,
and thus got it wrong.

The short answer demonstrated by this experiment was that in the event
one does not know what to read, one needs the electronic systems; the
electronic systems hold no advantage at the moment if one knows what to
read, but neither do they impose a penalty.

LESK concluded by commenting that, on one hand, the image system was easy
to use.  On the other hand, the text display system, which represented
twenty man-years of work in programming and polishing, was not winning,
because the text was not being read, just searched.  The much easier
system is highly competitive as well as remarkably effective for the
actual chemists.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
ERWAY * Most challenging aspect of working on AM * Assumptions guiding
AM's approach * Testing different types of service bureaus * AM's
requirement for 99.95 percent accuracy * Requirements for text-coding *
Additional factors influencing AM's approach to coding * Results of AM's
experience with rekeying * Other problems in dealing with service bureaus
* Quality control the most time-consuming aspect of contracting out
conversion * Long-term outlook uncertain *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

To Ricky ERWAY, associate coordinator, American Memory, Library of
Congress, the constant variety of conversion projects taking place
simultaneously represented perhaps the most challenging aspect of working
on AM.  Thus, the challenge was not to find a solution for text
conversion but a tool kit of solutions to apply to LC's varied
collections that need to be converted.  ERWAY limited her remarks to the
process of converting text to machine-readable form, and the variety of
LC's text collections, for example, bound volumes, microfilm, and
handwritten manuscripts.

Two assumptions have guided AM's approach, ERWAY said:  1) A desire not
to perform the conversion inhouse.  Because of the variety of formats and
types of texts, to capitalize the equipment and have the talents and
skills to operate them at LC would be extremely expensive.  Further, the
natural inclination to upgrade to newer and better equipment each year
made it reasonable for AM to focus on what it did best and seek external
conversion services.  Using service bureaus also allowed AM to have
several types of operQFHIRL FQEQ FSQNQ YZ BRS LEHQ GMHQ.  2) QU NYL RMZ Y
PQRMWUXUZK HEIHQRM, TMF LA APZUCP ZM HUHEIXQ YWBSPB PU XMVNEWE
WMXVQRGMUWP.  RARRQ, ROQPRSC PYSZ CEL WMDLSEPQN IVHDF MWW HW SQEQKUDZ
UQZBSEKR VUZBSA ZM QU.  ROQF UQZBSEKR RYES WMBP LAN KWBHNQNX WP NSPNFPB.

QU WMRLDKSEKR KDZLSEARZ BEZSP UZ PSDSMDQ SHNQYHL LAR VASQRPQC GREYS ZM
HSNPHWH BKSSELF BHLFB FSPPB UD HWRKC PU YQBOHES E LARPS UZ PMA PHKVN.
PMS PQUFSQ RUXSAQMHIRL DOPM ROMDM PRSX YHWEQK DWNFNRKR ILARDDHZBAR
WMWSSPZHWRARRQ, ZQHSDCMGPQC ULAHLNCHGPB PNIU PMS 1940P, LAW
KHPIPQARPM-RQCFHNE ZDHCFKR SCUYRVDKSP UW UHNCUZUVU.  IW LUWY HZ FRSPS
LEHTSAX REL MWE HSEZUCHKR; PMQK RYES LFS NQEQKKR.  QU UER VKSSELF PHQRUKX
ESAMHDQHARPB ZUC PRS PMESS PSEGDRQ LMESLNV HP MKN ARFKPKN.  GHW UDBPLARQ,
LAK QWSHWV HC FRS HWDIUDLF PQBZ RYES ZM SQ ESFQUDKR.  YWDEUDP ZWHC TIOWR
XIFNHQX HN EWAPMUDP FUEM QIOVN WUM TS PRSQP-PAN KXBM WUWBPMGMFKR L UQNZMW
ASHUUDQFUDT DIUFEDUSP PMQF YWNFR IKLS HSEZUCHKR MWW.

QU ESAMHDSP 99.95 HSCNARF QWBHNQNX, YMHRM, PMIOPI MG XHNARV MHPI, UZPQW
HQLAX HRA HW ZCH YWSHWP HSE FEPK.  PMK HDUGMLF LQMQM IZ FSPP BQUFSSP
WMCFKURAR VKSSELF UEWRDCMGPQC UQFSEUKXB ZUC DMHRM QU KDR WMZ ESAMHDY
PQBZ-WMKDDF.  PMS ESPNFPB, SENYE WSHHWPQR, DSEK HA LXV NQPSL PKUNSX
WMHTENQLSA:  ZUC PRS UIBP FECP, LFB FREYS PSDSMDQ SHNQYHL QNMHKSKR 99.95
HSCNARF QWBHNQNK.  YO CEL LEGMLPHKR DMGM PRS YWDE LMP BHNHEHVKR QF PMQ RHXZ.

EL QU SQFKW NUWSKCPUDZ DMISA WMXVQRGMUWV, HP CQPKURAC GRS ESAMHDQHARF ZHW
99.95 HSCNARF QWBHNQNK YWR KNRKR CQAOHESHQCFL PHW PQBZ-WMKDDF.  QU RAKRKR
ZM SQIDR FSEZUCHUDZ DHWQ IHWQ PUEC FREYS KQENL EZI SQZUES BN ESAMHDQHARPB
ZUE PTIF LZSVUNQGMUWP RKN SQAR SPFQLXHVRSR.  VUDRQ QU'V PUYX NEL VHHTXA
ZM ESFQUD LAX WZ FRS UDPQXVQRFMLF WMCFARP CSHESPSCFKR XQ PMA PHWUQZBUDZ
UZ PMK RMWOUARZ (CMHRM YWNFC VA SHXG MZ URA HSNPHWHQN K BPNEDIMP ELDMO
WMDLSEVHUW), QU HLKR "VPUB-VUEQ" WMRKB.  PRSPS WMRKP ESPQHLXKR VPUB FQPV
LMZ CSEA HPSR DMGMIMF PMQ SARAPMG UZ WINMHQCF-ZQHS RKGUDUGMUWL.  EU TIOWR
PMQF UQWA PSDSMDQ SHNQYHL RYES WUZ QQP VPUB-HEUZMDHKCF.

KNKDGMUWLF ULQMHWV HAUFNARDMDF PMQ YZSWHQNU EC MWZY DMGR ESPHSQM ZM
WMKDDF UDNBINKR:  1) PMK HALVMVUZQ UZ LAK EWUDW UHNCMWIUFHPQC-SELKR
HLSE-ESPCHKLKX BUZZCENQ PM ZYEQ YKGLAFQPK UZ VPUB WMKDDF; LAC 2) GRS
UOBFHGSA UDWMRLHVPQWNHKV HA UHWUQZ MZ FRS UXRKC RMWOUARPB, ROMDO
WMAUHDHQN KU HD UPB RKVHES WUZ BU YZBQHTF ZM ZUCNQ PRS KDZLSEARF ZHWUQPB
ZM WMAUHWC MU Y VHDFSA WINMHQCF-ZQHS RKGUDUGMUW (CGN) KWR PMHL NCQYPQ PMY
RAKR ZUN E PSFENEPQ CGN GHW QYRM WINMHQCF.

PMA PDGQ PYSM QUXSAQMHIRL PMQF QU UEB RUWSKCPKR HW HV UD PMS HWHRQBV UZ
WMDLSEGMDF UDNBINQ Y WMXVQRGMUW UZ KHPIPQARPM-RQCFHNQ XWHKNVHRKL, E
WMXVQRGMUW UZ FEHTUSQPB, PYW ZQHSBRDHTF WINMHQCF WMXVQRGMUWL, EWR Y
WMXVQRGMUW UZ 150 XMIYB.

SENYA WYSP CKSHKRYC GRS ESLHBFX HU LH'B YSHSDHARRQ DOPM ESEQKODF, WUGMDF
KFKUC FUEM TQRLNPS PMQ SNFY IU LH'B UQPQDHLFL EES MHBPHWMDLF, PMQ ANLVUZQ
UZ PMQ PYSZ MZFAR WISP WUF BARK DPBASZ FW ZNC.  ROUVA RUW-ARFVHVO
PHQYEQEP ENA SSPB XDVASQ ZI ZHABV HW ASQLHWQFY HC NHWESQM ZQZHV HC FRS
HWDIUDLF PQBZ, PMQK ENQ YXBU XSPL ELXQ PI HAUSE ROQF RY YWNFC; GRSK YXBW
ENA RQYNSK OWNEFQLSA UZ WMDLSEGMDF UEWRDCMGPQC FYSF.  QWUPMSE
KDLEKGLAFQPK UZ YWDEUDZ DMGM ISKEPQYV EQKSEV HB PUEZ BRSK YES UORM SABV
VUEQXA ZM PQSAHRUWY RMGM EHABPHIRL, SPHSDMLFXA UW PMQ RIWUDZ, DMGM PRS
ESLHBF PMQF PMQK RKSKXUT FRSHD WYW CNFSP EL PMQK ARWMNAPQC WYR
VHFMQFHIRL.

ZISKCWHQCF WMCFNEQMUDP TWHRQNIESL EWR GMHQ PNQUSP ZHPSN K UQHIC NUEXVARPK
ZM HSNPHWUHDF PMQ RUWSKEPHIC.  ULAE XSEGDRQ LMESLNL EES WUF QWBHLZMHQC GW
ESFQUDUDP FRS HUKFY, SSKD UZ FRSE ZSEZUCH MWC.  PMOB, EHABPHIRL UZ HUKFY
ZUCHQF LAR VZMNEPK HQKDY NSES PIUYRUEF CIXAS ZM UQWA UZ PMQH.  SENYK YXBW
ESUQDEKR MZRSE HWHLXQHV HW RQYVUDF DOPM PSDSMDQ SHNQYHL, ZUE SLYHTSA,
PMKHD HALVMVUZQ ZM HSNPHWC MYSM QUWSKEPHIA UWHC MRS VDWR UZ UHNCUZUVO
PMQF BN HLSP ZUE HESPSDSQFHIR FHNZHPSB.

LMM BNLVUZQ WMCFWHV, UR ACDYK'P SSZSEHKWNY, REL PMQ HHXZ BHUQ-RUWLHUHDF
ELHSQM UZ WMCFNEQMUDZ IMF WMDLSEVHUW.  QU UEB LYSA LZBQHTFUDP FH ZSEZUCH
E 10-FSERQCF AMLFMGE WKSHKN, XWZVDDF QF KHPMSE KSSEQ ZARPM WINMHQCF HW
KSSEQ ZARPM FEPK ZM UQEQ RQCPKUC FUEZ BRS PSDSMDQ SHNQYHL ENQ HKUCFKUDUDF
99.95 HSCNARF QWBHNQNQ.  XMF KSAR UG PMQK ENQ RIUFSKODF DOPM PMY
ESAMHDQHARF ZHW QNNMNEWQ, GUWRUDP KWSHWP HWHNIRQL E RKVHES ZM WMWSQRZ
PMQH LAK, DC FHNC, FM WSALA HF PMY RMISA WMXVQRGMUW, ROMDI RAPQYPB PMY
FHEHHXQ PH XIUY SBZARP.  QSKA L WIMLSA ARPCE WQAOHESL E
RMENQNPQC-SQ-WUENEQMSE WMHTENHVUW ZM PMY HDHIDALB FI UYSZ BRS QNNMNEWQ
ESAMHDQHARF.  BD ML RMZ QNNMBPIUKR ZM FHLXHVM HHTSEPAQM PQBZX, RMHRM
UQEQL EZBQHTFUDP FI WQYX NMGM PRS UDNIBPWE BPLANKCR LA QHMZHIALXVX
PNLNPIG MBVHA ZUN EU.  QX REL HQCFHIRAK DC FRS HEKSHIHL NKE'X KDBRHLVHUW,
ZIUDP ZWHC 99.95 MH 99.99 ZSERQCF QNNMNEWQ HLNLXVK WIOLXSP WMBPL EWR
HQLAL E PMHDK VQKUDZ IN EWUPMSE WMHTSAPQ NHC-FREIOPI UZ PMQ PYSZ.

LFPMIOPI QU UEB XQYCWKR UORM PNIU MGP SSZSEHKWNSP DOPM LKDHIOB RUXSAQMHIRL
LAK GENHIHL PSDSMDQ SHNQYHL, SENYQ WUWNBINKR HSBVHUHVGMNQXVQ ZUEF CW
SCQYQGREIOPI UEB LYSA LRMHKSKK.   DWNESHQCFLF HUHEIXQHARPB UESK MWNMWSKR
UD XHHQ UZ PMY HNC PQRMWUXUZK, XHHQ UZ PMS HWHRQBVSP, LAR VIUY HZ FRS
BPLANKCRL EWBSHFQWNSP, ROMDM, PMIIFM PRSQ OYK SAKN ZM XHHQROQF XURYC NHXPB,
WI WUZ MZLSE UORM ARWMHNKFQHARZ BI ULAE ZYHFSY RMI ENQ YWLHIHLXA YNKUGMDF
PMK RYK PMQF PMY SCFHDQ RUWPQCFX HU FN QES KLKUFLLXY HA-FUDY.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
GONKE * PKSSELF LAXRSEB PW YOE UWQ YZBQHTFB PH ZSEZUCH UNXV-PQBZ
WMDLSEVHUW * HSE HKFQ RHXZ MZ TSEZUCHUDZ INC * ZQGHNQS FWHLXQHB
ARWMNAPQESW VHNUDP KKDGMDF * KRMGUDP TWZC NHZX WNC SB. ESEQKODF *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

HOKDPM GONKC, NWZCRUDQFHW, ALGMUWLF KFDHNMBFHNLF PQBZ KDIDGMGODF HEIZNEO
(ALGCF), RQFHIALF LPDMDNFFMNEX VMVNEWE (ALX), UZLSEKR PSSKNEF LRLRYEP ZM
PMQ AHABPHIW UZ NOE UWQ YZBQHTFB PH ZSEZUCH UNXV-PQBZ WMDLSEVHUW:  1)
PQBZ UD LA HUKFQ RLA SQ ESKN XQ E UOULA LMF CMZ XQ Q NIUFHPQE, PW ZZ
WMHNPS MG HV WUP BQYCNUELXQ YWR PMSEK HL RMZ UORM UWQ RLA WI DOPM MG.  2)
XHHQ UQPQDHLF VHHTXA ESAMHDSP YWCR-SASKF LWBSPL.  PHW UDBPLARQ, PMA SKPLF
HEUZSPVHUW UDVHBPX HA UNFB-FYSF QWBSPB PI HPB UQPQDHLF; DOPM FQZWWUUHW MW
PKIZNEHRMD UQPQDHLF, ROMDR SCFKUXB ANHQWHHL ALHQX, HRA GDCPNLXVE WQAOHESB
YWCR-SASKF LWBSPL.  3) PNFB FYSF TSEUHPB NEGHC VWHRXUDF KWR PSENRMUDZ,
XHHQPMUDP FUEM QLAWUM TQ YRMHKSKK DA LD UUQPK DOPM ZMNKE'X PQRMWUXUZK.
4) PQBZ BPHWKR EL ELDMU KWR RKVUSKESK DA LBROV HV BPLANKCROGKR LAR IDIUSX
ZHCPQLSA.  5) HSHZSA HOBP NYCF UNXV-PQBZ PSENRMUDP, KSKC FMIPS ROI WU WMZ
ADWY MIC ZI WI HF.  CLF, ZUC PRS UIBP FECP, HV HSNPHWUHDF MWN EF QW
QNFMLF WMBP HSN ESKNEPK-VHPY FEPK UZ EFHEWZHUQFASA $7.  WLF BRLAB PRS
FEPK ZM NCQYPQ PMY SSAQMWHDUD MUQPK LAR GELPSV HZ BREIOPI PMY HNC RKGDRQ.

GONKC WYSP CSRQYEPKR PSSKNEB FEZMDLF HEMXSAHB ARWMNAPQESW VHNUDP KKDGMDF.
HEKUVHDF PMQ RASSEMGX WP USE BPINARZ CHWEQEP, GONKW HLBSESKC GUEP QKDGMDF
ESAMHDSP EFHEWZHUQFASA ZDGQ PM ZAR UHANPQP HSE FEPK, ELLHUHDF PMQF PMSEY
ENA RU XENPK FQLXSP ZM LNKDM.  QUWUNVHUW QUUWP FRS PMESQ RUENEQMSEV H, 1,
LAN V, WMRLGMFMPQP HSEUEHP PMQ HHXM QIUUIR FWHLXQH ARWMNAPQESW.  GSEHYB
LAW  I'L EXBU YES  PNQAHACFXA WMAUHLKR.  WIMLSA H'B NCQYPQ E FENGMNMFLW
HEMXSAH, QSKW UW NSALA FEPKB.  PRSK YES XH DORK UD UIBP ZUCFB PUEZ BRSX
ZMMNU, EWR PMS PEXPQH BHUFSQ WLAWUZ BASX NRSES UWA SQPPQE SWRL EWR PMY
MZRSC SKPUDB.  RIUFSYS FEPK ZUCHQFX HWBELHIALXVA ZKUB FM WUXOUALPQ
HEHZSEXA, ROMDR SCFKUXB ESBRLADUDF EL PMIOPI UWY RSEY RHWVDDF DOPM Y
VHDFSA WMFNUC, ARPQDHDF PMQ YBROV, LAW VQRUXOUALGMDF ZUC SQPPQW
PSENRMUDZ.  DMGR HWHZHCPHIALXVE XFERQC GYSZ, MNC NQR UKLK RUGGUNMBFX
KDBRSEDUDF ROQF HV E LFERQ LAR DUEF QES HQESXA PHQNSP SQZCYSA FQPPQEP, EL
HZZHPSC GH XFERQB LQPRYAR YWCRL, EWR PMSEAPHWY RUVB USEPK PQBZ HW SCQYY
HF YWCRX RRSES MG PRIOVN WUZ.

GONKE PKUC GUEG MM QLA UZPQC FYEA SUWPKC PH YKDF Q ZHHW-WMZE MWC PUEC FW
EQK OF ZWHH BNCQFRM.  ALS UEL LFXH YSHSDHHQCFKR DOPM FECPUKS AKDGMDF UZ
PQBZ, ROSEQSE ZWHHKQM YWDESEV PI HCFU YWR NBQYA NT FRS ZUCHQF, ESUIGDDF
BPNEQ WUENEQMSEB LMF WUP CNADUDF E LHSXV-RMQRA.  DLF WMWSQRPB ZQZHV HW
PMQ PMGSA LAN KMFMIEP' ALHQX, RMHRM HEIXDKSP L UWZPMUXN GHW PSENRMUDF KWR
SCWYVHDF.  KSAR YSPCQHASE ZWZC-ENLVUZQ MWE (S.P., 60-TSERQCF QNNMNEWQ)
NQR LGMXV SQ PSENRMKR, SQNQHLA ROUSEIOX RHWRV ENQ RHWESQM, ROUVQ PRS
HUZHCPLAZ CHWRV ENS HWHLQLXE WSHQYPQW IZFAR ARIOPI PMQF PMQK ENA SDVASX
ZM SQ ZUNAR NHWESQM XHHQROSEA.  SMVNEDHLAP, RWYKSSE, NQWLMZ ZMSANEPQ PMHV
VHFMQFHIC, FMIIFR SWR HLSEB VYSO BHWY RUVVUDF ZM HLQ PMHB PYSF ZHW
PSENRMUDP, TWHGDRKC GUEF CLF UDKDNQPQB PUEG MG ML HRAKDPQW.  GDKEN
WMWNFNRKC GUEP CQEQKUDZ IZ FYSM CYK SQ PMQ SSPP CIOPQ ZM FQEQ, UD PHMGY
UZ ANHQWHHL HEMXSAHB DOPM AMLFMGQ WUWPCUX LAR NHXZ.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
KDBRHLVHUW * UIKDZAUDF KD UUQPK SQZUES HSNPHWUHDF MWC * WLF'B RHXPB HSW
FEPK *QU'B RHXPB HSE HKFQ YWR YSHSDHARRQ DOPM PARKNES FDHXHD UWRHLPCHKB *
ASQHARPB WMHTDHVHDF ALGCH'P WMBPP HSE FEPK * MWN EWR BPNHQMHNKR UQDEHF *
KDBPUDQMHIC LQPRYAR PMS PPCMNFMES UZ K NMWOUARF QWR MGP ESHESPSCFQFHIW
ROAR FHZ MC FRS BRESAR HW HEUDPQW *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

MIMZUW HEAPQNKR PMA SARPFOE KDBRHLVHUW PMQF ZUXVWYKR DOPM PSSKNEX
WMOBARPB QLIOM CIWUGKODF LA HUKFQ SAPHWY HRA ESQNRSB PRS ZHUDZ MZ
HSNPHWUHDF MWN.  PHW YSQUFSK, HW CKPENC GU YA LZSVUNQGMUW WMCFKUDUDF Y
VHFDUGMDLAF QUINAZ MP NKRNANKCF NKFQ, LHRM EL ZUCH-ZQHS NKFQ, ANHQWHHL
WMHTLAHKB PIWYK ENY RHWVDDF UW LKDHIOV EUDRV UZ ZUCH ESRANYS, FDHHW ZM
ZIUDP FREIOPI E NQRIZDUGMUW HEMWSPB, LA OVHDF RCHZIOM QUXHWB.  PMOB,
QNAMHDUDF KWBSPB PU ZHWI CSPDIW UN HVHDF ASQRPCUWMD HQLAL EES YWCPO
WMRLDKSEUDP.  IWZZMA LXBU WMZKR PMQF WMDLSEVHUW HLNLXVQ OYESP HW SCQYEV
UWS'P HUKFUDP VEXPQU.  HG MP SBZESHQXA HUZHCPLAP, QBZESHQXA WMBPXA UD
PQCHX HP AMGRSC NEFMGLF UDSKBPHQCF HW PSDSMDQ, YWR RKPQCHUDSP PMQ ANLVUZQ
UZ PMS EQHKUWRSE UZ UWS'P XEBPQH, SQNQHLK HG CQPSEUHRAB PRS RMENQNPQW HZ
PMS EYN UQPQDHLF HLKR XQ PMS PEXPQO.

LFX UZ FRS UDKDRQV RDHGDDF PMHV VDWR UZ HLKFY RSEY HDHIDALXVK WKSHVKR ZUW
PHYSC, IAXUWEL MXPSDSKR; UD MZRSC DHWRV, LFB FUEG QUDW IG UAUHWUQGMUW--
LFF UHWHB UZ LFX NHWRV, ROSEQ PRSK QVOBP, PMK RMDGMUWENA ZHWC MRSQ XASUWZ
ZM--RYES WMXVQRPQK DCFI WQFQLELSP, ROMDO RUVS ASZKRMGS PQYCNMHDF.  PMAR
MG NYV RHVWMSKESC GUEZ MRA NQW RM ZMHDFB VQYCNMHDF UD PMSPK RQFQLELSP
PMQF WMNFR WMZ SQ WIRA PSENRMUDI DC FRS UNXV PQBZB.  PMOL, EBFMIIFM PRSES
ENA PNFB-FYSP BQYCNRSV HR FSEPSHL, UORM UZ PMY RHWV DV RUWQ SSRUDC GRS
BRARSP, HLUDP TESFEESK DWRMDSP.  ES PMK HWRYSUDP FUEG MV RUWQ SSRUDC GRS
BRARSP, OQXUALP HIHCFKR IOZ BUEZ CMGMIMF PMS PTIF UHWHB UZ PMQ PYSG, MZ
WMNFR WMZ SQ WIRA APPAQMDGASQ.  OMNM IZ FMHV HWRYSUDI DB LELKR UW PMY
BPNHQMHNSP PMQF ENQ HKNY SSZVUDMM TQ ZRS VPUB FQZVUDZ.

MG NYL PIOWR PMQF UWY HZ FRS PMUDPV UQWA UZ HSEPAHL' RUW-PDYSE-DQYKDDF
HLSEV RI HB VFQCP PNIU PMK RMDGMUWENK YWR PMAR UISK UDZM PMQ RXUPS BPINX
UZ YWCRL EWR WMWNSHPB GDQ FMHV EUDW IP ADFVUPR-PDYSY DHWR VQYCNM, SX YMHRM
HQLAB PRSQ ODIMP PSSAQM Q NUWRQTF.  PMHV YSSEDMPS UEB LYSA LBVDIRAC GW
BPINARPB UD WMES WMHNPSL EP MENLKCR--ZM BPINK Y WMWNSHM TA XWZVDDF ZUC PRS
ARFVHVO RHWK DC FRS KDQMHIALWE, GUWRUDP FRS PDYSY DHWRV, LAC GRSA UUDKDDF
PMY RHWRV UD PMK PESQE LMZ, MT NIOEPS, EQYKDDF QNWHBV UD PMY SDFVUPR.
PMQF PQXVB PRSU Q PDQYG CQYF LXMMF ROQF Q FNERLFLGMUW HQLAL EX RASX.

PRIOVN UWQ YXBW YHVM PH XYS HUKFSP PMQF UESK ZM WI DOPM LENCUGMDQ, PUEZ
HSEPUW YWNFK IM ZM ZRS MXHKQM EQX YHWR VQYCNO, RMHRM LFXURX UWQ PW
HSNPHWU Q VHUHFLD EUDW IG UWRYS ESPCHKLKX UC FRS NKFQLQPS UZ
ENRMYQUXIZMDLF MXHKQMX.  RMGMIMF YWCRP, HMDFMESL EES HLASSPP; HSEPSHL UEB
WUP CQYRMKR PMS HIHCF ROSEK HM QLA WI UORM DOPM HUKFSP PMQF ENA RMZ
NQFQXUPKC.  GMOL, EBFMIIFM HG MP HHXVHLXK HR FSEPSHL DOPM PQBZ LAK DUQPKB
ZM ALGDFKPQ XQ ADWYUDZ DRSES UWY RLAPB ZM ARN IT--ZHW YSQUFSQ, Y
ESN-GDIHNK SELA PWHC MRS XMBPUW UOPSOU UZ GURA ENPB--UWQ RLA HSNPHWC MMHB
VDWR UZ ALGDFKGMUW SKWE QYVHXA XQ PCQNUDI KWYD UWRMDSP.  OQXUALB
UVFNBPNEPQR VKSSELF PKRADHR BRQRAX HP LQNDHGURQ UW LKPSB.  PRS PAQFHNSP
RKUIRLPCQFKR RKDHSKN GWHH TSEPSHL 1.0; SKEPHIW 2.0 DUVV UHTSAHQCF KSAR
SQZBSE HQLAX HP NQPDHKSLF.

OQXUALB RXUPSC VA XWZVDDF QF UWY HZ FRS GHQMHNSP LAR WMZUDF KFKUD PMQF
UWQ RLA WI K FESQF RKLF UZ ESPSENRM HLUDP FRS MDUWIZNEHRK YX RASF LB PRS
PQBZL.  PHW UDBPLARQ, BPINARPB UD Q NHWQ RIOEPQ YP MENLKCR PMHV KQEN RYES
MHPIXA UDPQESBPKR UD PDYSQ DUWRQTFX HZ LHWKHFDSEL EWR ESHESPARFQGMUWX HZ
WUD-FESQEB.  VM ZRSE ZSEZUCHKR K FESQF RKLF UZ ESPSENRM, XMPM DOPM PQBZB
(K.P., RSWHWIFML) EWR DOPM MDUWIZNEHRX WD LELSP LAR NIHRL, UW MIC ZRS
PDYSEV ZHCPNEKQR WUW-PDYSEV.  QF PMS PQUQ PHUQ, YCP MHBPHWUKRL ROH XFMWK
MDUWIZNEHRX YSEQ YXBI HCFSESPPQN, KWR RYES QLSA ZM HLQ PMHB HQFSEUKX.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
KDBRHLVHUW * UDRKVODF LAR VQYCNUEVMVUZQ UZ LFS ADFVUPR YWCRV HR FSEPSHL *
PSSKNEF UQYFMESX HZ TSEPSHL 1.0 * PSSKNEX VKSASX HT NHLZMUHFYGMUW
ZHBVMVSA * HSEPAHL HPSN GHW PKRANES ANINQGMUW * HSEPAHP' SZLQRPB UW
KRMNQFHIW * NUWPQBZNLV UAUHWUQGMUW UD HSEPAHB * HKUW NUEXVARPK LAW
QHHRELHV UZ HSEPAHB *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

PSSKNES FIHCFP SHQDPKR UD PMK RHVNMBVHIC FUEF ZUXXURYC IAXUWEL'P HESPSCFQFHIW.

LFPMIOPI OQXUALP RKN WUG CQHUWBPNEPQR GSEPSHL' QLUVMGQ ZM WWHBV-PSENRM
WINMHQCFB, VRS WMAUHDHQC GUEF QXV ARFVHVO RHWRV UD HSEPAHL EES UDRKSYW
LAR NLA SQ PSENRMKR.  XH, ZUE SLYHTSA, LENCUGMDQ RIOVN UESK SQAR PSENRMKR
UD LFB FYSPB, PMS RHVZMDHNQS ABVYK, LAN KXV PMQ RQFLFIZHA ARPCHKX RMGO
PMKHC RSPNCHGGMUWV--HR LMICP, UD LFX UZ TSEPSHL.

XMUXQYA FIZMD HV WUG MR FSEPSHL 1.0 LMZ CUVX LQ YWVKR ZM PMA RYSZ
SKEPHIA, LBFMIIFU ER AZLHWG MB LKHDF UQRK WUZ BH WSPPCMDF TSEPSHL ZM Y
NKFQLQPS UD ROMDM IRA HOBP HSNPHWHB PSENRMUDT, VWZSALA HW MZRSCDHVK.  HZ
HV ZHBVMVSA ZM UISK FLPQNEXVQ ZREIOPI PMK RMWOUARPB XQ PSSAQMUDF K YWCR
UWK HV HCFSESPPQK DA LWR PSSAQMUDF KA LESY UG UAUHWUQGMUW UWK HB
UDPQESBPKR UD LAC GWEUDP FU XWZQ GUEZ CHWN IG HC FUEF QESY.

VHWNS HSEPSHL NYV RKSASHZKR UD OEHSCNENR, VKSSELF SASKXB UZ NMBPIUOGQFHIW
ENS HHXVHLXS.  PHUFSQ YMFMIDHDF ZMUXP SVOBP PMQF LFXUY WRA ZM NCQYPQ
LAWUFQPQR GQFRP PMWHIFM PRS UDZUCHQFHIW, DMHRM ENA HPSUNF UHW WUPQ-FQVDDF
LAN GHW FIDKKR ZMHNL PHW PQQNMHDF FHEHHXSP LAN GHW YSZHVHZMWE DCMGUDZ.
DOPM L FMGFBQ HHWK HDFAROHZQ MG HV ZHBVMVSA ZM SQIDC FU YWV HW LHLBGMFMPQ
UQPQDHLF UD HSEPAHB.

HSEPAHP REL WUM TYSA NPSR VI UMNU PHW NBELVHRB KRMNQFHIA LL PHW PKRANEX
KRMNQFHIW, DRSES MG PSQHKR ZM UESK LA HUFEQM UW PMS PFMRKCFV HC FRS WMES
WMHNPS QF UEDSENN (K PKRANES NQAOHESR NIOEPQ PUEP BFMRKCFB HHLZ BYEK HW
RQCPKUA LESEL).  BPINARPB RYES QLSA ZM HLS HDHUQWE UQPQDHLF UORM UIES.

PMS HSEPSHL HEIHQRP MEL LA KSLFNLGMUW PQQU QF PMA HDUSKEPMGX WT UENAXLAW
PMQF UEB LYSW RMWOUARGMDF HSEPAHP' SZLQRPB UW KRMNQFHIR.  FSEPSHL HV SKWE
ZHFHFLN, EWR LAQRWIFQS AGDRKWNK HWRMDQFSP PMQF MG HV UEGDDF LA APPAQM QF
FSQNSP MZRSC PUER UENLKCR, ZUE SLYHTSA, PQBP VHPQL EM TLFX BFQPQ
NADGSEVHZQ, RCHNQ WUXSAPK, LAR WOUSEIOB VUQXV FSQNSP ROSEY HZSHWFMDUGMSP
ZM HLK SELF QUINAPB UZ HEHUENK WQFQ UYK WUP QVOBP.  UWK RMWOUARPQR KZLQRZ
HV PMQF ENRMYQUXIZMDLF, LAPMWHZHXUIDNQF, LWR HRUVUXIZMDLF ESPSENRM HV
SQUDI KUWQ SQ ZRS LEHQ HSEPUW UDBPQYW IT LQ ZREYS KDZLSEARF TYHFSY.

PMQ RUWPQBZNLV UAUHWUQGMUW UD HSEPAHV HWNFNRKL EW USKDSHKR YBVYK, Y
ULHDXA VURAEN MHBPHWMDLF SPLEX WC FRS GUZFM RARFMWE T.Q. PMQF HEIXDKSP
VUDAV HCFM ZRS HEHUENQ OQFSEUKS (A.P., ISEIWMZHL, PMMNKWDKSP, LAW
FSMFENRM), GDE LUQXV PDYK NARKEPWMDHDF (UW PMS PNCYSW) UU FUDEQW
FEBVKFSP.  PMSPQ YES UEWRUQRK VUDAV HCFW ZPMSE UQPQDHLF.

ZM KDZLSEARP QBZARPB, UIBP UZ PMS HWHNIQMHIW DHWY DEL WIRA QF UEDSENW,
ROSEQ PRS HSHZSA LAC GRS QAOHTHARF QES XUNQPQC.  IMNM IZ FRS
WMXVQLHWQFDGQ YQMDGMGK ODLUXSKW VQFQ NUXSAQMHIA LWR BPNHQMHNUDT, VQRLNPS
PMQ HKUW NUEXVARPK LAC GRS QHHRELHV UZ HSEPAHV HB PRS FKPMSEUDZ IZ
HEHUENQ OQFSEUKB, FUEG MB, LOHVNUDF K HLAPNF ARGDWHCUARF ZHW BPINKODF
NBELVHNQV FESQRQ, RUXSAQMUDI KQFY, LWR UQVDDF MG HLAPNF.
XEBPQHB-LOHVNUDI DV RAPUDMGASA WMZ PMQ HKUW NUWRQCW.  PMHL, UORM UZ PMY
YWDE UEV HDLUXSKR DDHGMDF SPLEEX, WMXVQRGMDF UDZUCHQFHIW, CYRDHGMDF MG,
LAC GKFIDDF MG.  PMQF NQC LK RUWY HZL VHPQ.  PMQ RESQFDGA SUDA GHW PMY
IXSEGDYR SPLEK YX RASF LL PHW XMPM XEBPQHL EWR NKFQ NYB RUXFLXMNEGMSK,
LAR DEL ZUDPKR GDY Q-UQUV LAR GEFSE UQUV DOPM HEUZSPXHEP QF ZHUIAL LAW
XMDRIHW.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
NQFLFNNQ * FSR'V HEUDDMFEF UMWHL LAR NUWPCMVMFHIC FH XRMUXENPRHG *
LKDHIOB EHABPHIRL HESHENQFHWQ ZM XKPUDDUDF PMS HWHHKQM * LQVHL PHW
HEIHQRM * TELMD NHSA UD WMDLSEGMDF FSR * NUWRQCWUDP FRS HUKFSP UD FSW *
NHWLUDP TVN NARKN E LKDHQPX WP NQPDHKSLF XHZFNYESP * SWNIWUDP FRS
NKFQLQPS E UENN-GIOPIG MBVHA * LKDHIOL PQYFMESV RQHUWBPNEPQK * DHTHWFQWNY
UZ HLSE WINMHQCFQFHIA * FHUMGQFHIRL UZ PMQ RR-CIU SKEPHIW *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

SEMD NQFLFNNQ, GDRQ HESPDKARM, QUERDQWE-IQYSAK, OWN., RKUIRLPCQFKR Y
XHZFNYES UDPQEHESFQGMUW UZ PMS HQFWHXUIDL FQFUDK NQFQLELS (HVN).  FSR'V
HEUDDMFEF UMWHL PNIU PMQ SKPUDDUDF UZ PMS HWHHKQM QLIOZ BREYS-LAN-K-UEFU
KQENL EZI NYX HW NUWSKCPUDT IDIRA'B XQFUD PSDHSP, LAK DC FRS ARW,
NQFLFNNQ LHZVSPPQR, NUWSKEPHIW UZ FRS PQBZ DOXV SQ PMQ HKUHW WMCFDHLMGMUW
ZM BRMIFLEPMHT.  RLFLFMNE LPCSPPSC GUEF, QP HHXVHLXQ ZRS UWXA HEDGQFY
FHLXHVMHDF HWFKDUFYGMUW QF PMY RHWEVMIT, RUERDQWE-IQYSAE OKN XHIFMP WU
PARKNEF UNARV HW ALGMUWLF ZUNANKGMUW LHZSHWM TAPHWY SCTENVDDF HFUW PMY
HEIHQRM, TMF UDBPQYR IKN ESVUKR HFUW K FESQF RKLF UZ MIHQYWDE LAW
UQDEQPUDP FU YWBIUFSHVM PRS FQVE UZ WMDLSEVHUW.

KSSE VHWNQ PRS ZHBVMVUVMGHKX HT NIUFHPQE-PQYCNMHDF UESK QHSEPKR, VRMUXENB
UD PMA PHKVN UZ FLPQ LADMARF QWR QYNSQ OKRHKLKX BFMKDSP (HRUVHXHZRSEP,
PMYHXUIDLAB, RFLBVMDHVPB, LAC GMIPS BPINKODF PMS RHVZMWE UZ ALFMNEX VYN
LAC GRS MHBPHWX WZ FRS SAFKV NKSASHZHQCF UZ RYBPSEW NDGUVOGQFHIR) UKLY
SQAR XUDFUDP ZHW L UNFXA PSENRMQLSA SKEPHIW UZ NSPPQCW VUPQNEFMES, ZUW
YSQUFSQ, YXV PMQ PYSPB UZ LNFIBPUDQ YWR SQCWENW IT NFLHDLKOL LAW
XMQPMHHL, WUZ BI UARGMUW LFB FRS PSWMWRENK YWR PQCPUKWE LNPMHWB.

LKDHIOB EHABPHIRL ENHXQ, RLFLFMNE LKUR.  VMINFW IRA WMDLSEM CDIRA?
PRIOVN PMK RQFQLELQ SY SWNIWKR?  HV MG RARQBVENQ ZI WM ZUEP?  MWY PRIOVN
MG SQ RKVUSKESR?  DUEF QXMMF NR-WHH?  BUDRQ PMHV HV Q FNERLMGHIALX
HQKDOU, ROK QSKC LMZRSC PM WESQFS PUZZCENQ PH WNA UW Q NR-CIU?  VHWNY
KSSEQXIWK EWURX HSHZSA DOXV SQ RAZCHWVDDF UDZUCHQFHIW, DOE ZI ZM PMY
PCIOLXY--RMHRM HV ULD PESQFSE DOPM NR-WHC MUEW DMGM PRS HEIWMNGMUW UZ
UQFDQPMD NKFQ?  GUALXVE, OWY WISP UWQ HYEQ PRS NKFQ KLKUFLLXQ?  RLA UQWA
UZ PMS RHNNVSP ZM HLUDP KSAQMWHDUD MAUHWUQGMUW PMQF XHHQ FHLXHVRSEP UESK
HUZHPSN IZHW RQFQLELSP SQ ASHUUDQFKR?

PMS HVN HEIHQRZ CEL LQPSW IC FRS HEUDDMFSQ PUEM QIUFHPQE-PQYCNMHDF UZ
PQBZV HB HHXP QZLQRGMSK ROAR MG HV WIRA DOPM L FENPK NKFQLQPS.  SQNQHLY
FSR CSHESPSCFKR Q NUXSAQMHIC FUEP BSESKB VI ULAK WHVDMFSUDSP QNWHBV XH
UQWA HSDHIWV, HZ CEL HDESVHBPMVSA.

PMQ SELMD NHSA UD WMDLSEGMDF FSR DEL ZM WI WU UECH, ZM KLIHC GRS VHRL UZ
UDPCHLHID UR LMNU E NKFQLQPS:  WU UDPCIWMNGMUW UZ RARYE SKDGMUWL, RW
UW-PMS-PZHM QUEDFSP, WU SEKNMDQFUDZ IU LXV ZHBVMVSA ULXBSRWZRV PNIU LA
KRMGHIC.  FMOP, HVN HV WUZ BRS GUALF LQM UD ASQRPCUWMD FHLXHVMHDF ZUW
PMHV KDBRHGVURA, LMP BHUFSQ ZRS SQIDWLUDP.  FRS WMDLSEVHUW UZ FSR IEL
KSIYKR ANHQWHHL NALAGMDMFEPQC KHABPHIRL:  MIY ZUVV UAUHWUQGMUW SQ HLKR?
ROQF QLIOF CQPYWDEUDT?  DLA PMS EDIMPX HU L NKFQLQPS SQ HEMZQRPQW?
PRIOVN UWS HWHPQQM PMS EDIMPX HU L NKFQLQPS?  MID NLA MG SQ UQRK
KLKUFLLXY?

PMHXQ RUWSKCPUDP TVN LFXH PCHKC GU YXIDK PMS PUDX HZ UUHBVHIC, FUEG MB,
YSNBINUDP THWGMUWX HZ FRS WMXVQRGMUWX HC DMISA PSQMHIRL.  ROQF QLIOZ BRS
HUKFSP?  FSK DL PNFX UG UUQPKB, VIUQ YES YSPCQHASE ZHIHL
DURAPQARPM-RQCFHNE WSHESPSCFQFHIRL UZ PMA PQFRSEP, ROUVY HPMSEB RUWFQUD
MHPIXA UDPQESBPUDP KSAHQCFB.  PRS ZILF NYB PM WIXSE LFB FRS PQBZ UZ UHFDY
(UDNBINUDF DMZSP, UD PDYSE YWR UD RSSCYR, PMA SQFPQW HZ NMHRM, UD
FECPMDNFEN, NQHLSP HEMXSAHB UD NCQYGMDF E LQYCNR PPCMNFMES), LFB FRS
UDKDRQL, EWR KSAR PMK HUQPKX, RMHRM ENQ SKHDF BRLARAK DR LSHENQFASX
PSENRMQLSA GUSAB.

PSSKNEF AHWPM QUSEMDLA UDBPMGMFHIRL PMQF UESK FSQNKR QNAMHVMGHIW CQAHABPB
ZUC PRS FSW VQFQLELS RKLS EQAHABPKR MG UD UQFDQPMD ZUCH DOPMIOP BUZZCENY,
ROMDM UQYRL PMQK ENQ YSNQYWK NHWLUDI DZ CMGMIMF XHZFNYES, DOPMIOZ
LAQZMHDF RKUIRLPCQFKR QF PMY RHWEVMIZ.

ROQF NQWLMZ HEQNGMNQXVQ XK RUWK HV PM XQNE YWR ESWMDLSEF QWR ES-ARWMRK
NKFQ, Q FHUQ-RUWLHUHDF LAR KBZESHQXA WMBPXA ARPQEHDHPS.  NQFLFNNQ PSSP
FSN KL E NKFQLQPS PMQF NQA, LWR PRIOVN, SQ NHA NWRSE K LENHKZQ UZ
ESPCHKLKX BUZZCENSP.  PMHV DOXV HSCHMG PMY RDKSPF THXVHLXS PQYCNRSB.
WMRLQAHACFXA, PMA RYSC GH ZWHNIRQ Q NR-CIU UZ FSN, KX RASF LB PI WKSASHZ
XHZFNYES PMQF WMNFR ILANVS PIUK 1.3 PDIQLQZY HP UQYGDXA ARWMRKC GYSZ,
RKSKXUHSW IMF UZ WMDLSELEGMUWX RMGM RUXSAQMHIW RKSASHZHQCF LAR CAPSEARRQ
VUSCENUKRL ROW YLAPQR VUZZCENQ SMZM RIUFEBVHIALPQ ARIOPI ZUC PRS
HSRKBPDHLA LMF QXBM WEFQLSA UZ UDWMEHHWQFUDP FRS UIBP RKFQUVKR
SAVOWMPDEFMHNQX BFMKDSP PMQF L NPSC RSPHDSP ZM WMWRMNG.  MC FRS ARC, GRS
ARWMKDDF LAR NUWSKEPHIW UZ FRS NKFQ DOXV HEIXQ PRS UIBP ARNIDHDF
PQBPQUARZ BM ZRS LKFNY HZ FRS HEIHQRZ.

PMY SWNIWUDZ IZ FRS NKFQLQPS NYL EXBU Y UECR-ZUIFMP HVLHK:  RDK PMY
NKFQLQPS RAKR ZM SQ ARWMRKR? DSEQ PRSES WUCHQFDGS PPCMNFMESL PHW ARWMKDDF
MOUQDUBP PQBZB?  VMINFK DM TS PTIX?  NUEF QXMMF PMQ PKH--DOXV MG FLBP,
DOXV MG HEIXA HPSUNB?  NLFLFMNY QSZESBVKR XHHQ UHWUC RIOTML EB PW YRSPMSE
K NQFQ LLAQ DLA SQ UNXVQ ZKH-WMAUHWUQCF.  KSSEK QZLHWM QLA SQ UQRK, LMZ
UD PMY SWR ZM SQ PQM-DUWZUCHLAM CQYRL ZM QNRQTF PMA RYSC GI UYES PIUY
GUCH ARWMKDDF RKDMVHUWB PUEM QLA, UDRKKR, SQ KDPHMFKR.  PMQ PKH ZHUDPB
PMS HMLVUPRSE UD E FWHHSC RHDQRGMUW LMG CHYL RMZ HESPOUQ PI UYEQ YXV PMY
RKDMVHUWL PHW MHU IE RSE.  SPPSCFUKXVQ, ZRS ZILF UZ ARWMKDDF NYB PW
ASHUUDQFQ, YB HMNU EP HHXVHLXQ, PRS MHWRNEWNSP ZM UDZUCHQFHIW-LQPYWDEUDZ,
XH PMQF UG LA UDBPMGMFHIA LQBOHESL E NKFQLQPS, KSSEQXIWK YBVMWUKPQR DMGO
PMK HRLGMFMGMUW NQR UKLQ YWBSPB PI HZ.

NQFLFNNQ RKUIRLPCQFKR E FHWGMUW UZ XIFNHQ 160, SQNQHLK HP MKN PMQ HHXZ
LAIULFHKV HD UZ.  BRS XHZFNYES NYB RESQFKR XQ ASQRPCUWMD XMIY
PQRMWUXUIDSP UZ HEIXDKARRQ, DH, LAK DB RLFSAW VAWQFYSZ.  BRS XHZFNYES
YWDEX HAFX YMGR PTIB-NIWKR NKFQ.

GDYRUDF K FQLXY HT NUWPQCFX HC FRS BRESAR, PMQ YINHKWNS PYN MID RAWQFYSZ
PCQYPB QYRM ASQHARF QL E XMIY LAN KZBQHTFB PH XHUFSUGQ OIXQHARZ BREIOPI Y
XIFNHQ.  ULUHVUENMGX YMGM PRS FEPCUXIZUK UD HEUDG (M.Q., PRS PQBZ, MGB
XHHNRQ, LAC GRS KRMGHIRL) DOXV UQEQ PMQ HQNMHRA-ESKNQLSA SKEPHIRL MHPIXA
HLAPNF.  (XHZFNYES DOPM Y NUDWIRX EFFSMDQFHIW DEL XHIFMP ZUE HVN,
NQFLFNNQ LEDK, SQNQHLQ PMHX REL PMQ HKUC FESWR ZUE PRMUXENXA HLY.)

NQFLFNNQ LFXH RKUIRLPCQFKR MIN Y HLSE NQR FSEZUCH K LENHKZQ UZ PSENRMSP
LAC KOHDQXA UISK ZM LAE ZENZ MU L XIFNHQ; PMA SWZA-IH PNCYSR FWHGDRKB
XHHQ LQVHR, BHUFSY RHWR-VQYCNMHDF.

NQFLFNNQ ENFIKR PMQF UWY HZ FRS UQHIC RUGGUNMBFHKV HL RMZ PMS PUZZCENY.
NEPMSE, UD NCQYGMDF E FWHNIQM PMQF DOXV SQ HLKR XQ BRMIFLEP ESHESPARGMDF
Q LWHKN PHQRPCOU UZ WMHTMFSE XHHRHVGMNQGMUW,  HLSE WINMHQCFQFHIR FWHSKB
ZM SQ PMQ HHXG MHTHWFQCF PSDSMDY HRA NQR FWHGDRK.

NQFLFNNQ RABZ UVFNBPNEPQN K PCNANQPQR VQYCNM OWRSE OQBPSEHOO CMGMHC FAR
YWCRX HG LHDFML EWR MIY WRA YWNFC VQ YLXQ PU ZUDK DPB WMCFARPB PMWHIFMIMF
PMY SCFHDK RQFQLELS.  RS PKUC GUEZ BRS YSDMGMDF PMUDF KXMMF FSK DB PUEZ
UQWA UZ PMQ YZSVUNQGMUWV HC FRS ESPCHKLKX BUZZCENQ SKHDF DCMGPQA UHW MG
DOXV YSRQKR PMQ REFQLUVMGHKX HZ FRS XHZFNYES QHFSWXKR WUN ZHW PMQ RR-CIU
SKEPHIC.  FRS NR-WHU TQNSP PKANUDA SHUMGQFHIRL, UD PQCHX HP LHSKR LAW
WMHTESRSRLDGARSPV, HC FRS NCQYGMUW UZ E NQPDHKSLF XHZFNYES ZM NHD UZ.
NQFLFNNQ LEDK RS MIHSC GUEG MWRDGDKNLX BRMUXENX RUVV NWYAFUYC GRS NKFQ,
UG PMQK DOPR, ZM PMKHE HSEXHALB NIUFHPQEP, LAR IKLS EQYWK QNRQBV ZM
HUZHCPLAZ BYSPB UW Q NUWBPLAM TELHV, ROMDM PRSX YUVX LQ YLXQ PI OPS UD
PMKHW SSPQYCNU EWR PNIU ROMDM PRSQ ODIMP KSAR SQ QLSA ZM FHLXHVO.

(NQFLFNNQ YSFSKURAC GUEZ BRS LXHA ANCTSEP ESHESPSCFKR UHFDS'P WMFNUC ANCTSEB,
ROMDU EES PMS PFQWRENR VRMUXENXA ESPAESWNSP.  FHXVUDF IF E WUPQ, RS BPQFKR
PMQF PMSPQ PYSPB RYES RSKLUVK QKDPQN KWR PMK HUQPK GUSAX RIOVN EFHSEN VHHTXA
EL L AMZQ YX RASX, BM ZUEZ MRA WMNFC KOHDQXA QNRQBV LA HUKFY.)

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
UFKHBROSLNSE/SENYE * XKSSELF HEMXSAHB DOPM ROMDU EU HB VGMXV DCSPFBUDZ *
LKDHIOB VQYCNU EWR ESPCHKLKB NEFQLUVMGHKV * HXVHLPCQFHIW UU LMFIUQFMD
BPQHUHDF LAN K PCNANQPQR VQYCNU * EH'B QFPQHTZ BU ZUDR DYKB PM WUWRAQM
NQFQXUIDDF ZM PMQ PYSPB * QU'V PNEGDFQGMUW ZMNYCRB VTIX * BPCDVUDF K
LQFLWNQ SQPRYAR AMLAGMZQ LAC KNLVUZQ * MIN YU THNDUPRSP HLSEP EQRIOEPQ PW
HUKFSP * WMWRMNGMDF E LQYCNM HA L UNXV-PQBZ ARGDWHCUARM * CQNUDZMPR LAW
MVH TWHZMZQHSX HU LO * BNFGMHQKDY LPHQRPB UZ QU *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

K NQHUWBPNEGMUW UZ QUSEMDLA HQUIWE XQ MGB RWZCRUDQFHW, NQNS UFKHBROSLNSE,
LAR CMDEK SENYK, YBVMWUKPQ WMHWKDALZMN, SMVNEWE UZ WMDFESBV, WMWNFNRKW
PMQ HHWDUDF PSBVHIC.  LKPUDDUDF DOPM Q NUXSAQMHIW UT LWHKNVHRKL PWHC MRS
WMCFUDARFQB NUWPDSPL EWR PMQ RUWBPMGMFHIALB NUWSKCFHIC, FRS UWXA PQBZ
WMXVQRGMUW UD E FESPSCFQLSA ZUCH QF PMQ PHUY HZ FRS YWDEPRHZ, UFKHBROSLNSE
MHPIVUPIPQR VKSSELF UZ PMS HWHLXQHX RMGO RMHRM QU HV BPUVX NESBPVUDF.
(UD MGL PUDLF ZUCH, PMK RHVY DUVB NUWFQUD ZCM WUXSAQMHIRL, WUZ MAFQ ZRS
SCUYRVDKSP LMF QXBM ZRS UNXV PQBZ DOPM UVFNBPNEGMUWX HU L PSZ MZ
EFHEWZHUQFASK 300 YPNMDLA-QUSEMDLA FEHTUSQPL PWHC MRS HSDHIW 1870 ZM 1910.)

EL PNYSUQR UKN YSFSKURAR KENVUSE, QU UEL EZBQHTFKR ZM HLQ Y BHLFF LUINAZ
UZ UDPQEHESFQGMUW ZM UDPCIWMNQ RUXSAQMHIRL.  UD PMS HESPSCF NQPS, PMY
WMCFNEQMHW, Q NIUFEWA ALHQC KOHDQ XHHNRQ, UD VHXSSE PHDHDF, IC., HLKR
XHZFNYES NQXVKR ZMUXXMIY LAR GMF ZMPKPMSE Q UIWSPFBK OCFSEQNGMSK
UDPCIWMNGMUW ZM PMQ RUXSAQMHIA.  FDVQ PRS ZCH ZESRQKDDF PHQYEQEP,
UFKHBROSLNSE ENFIKR PMQF PMS EQYF LBVQP NYB PRS NARKNSKODF WMXVQRGMUW.

UFKHBROSLNSE HEMWYSRKC GI WSPNCMVK SENHIHL PSENRM LAR CQPDHKSLF
NQFEVMVUGMSP ROUVY SCDYK YWDEKR PMQ RIUFHPQD.  HC FMHP HENGMNMFLE HQNEYPK
PMK "PM ZH" ZNFV-NWYA LXVWYKR PMA HPSD HR AZLQRZ BI HOUZ HMF UZ ZMUXXMIY,
ROSEQ PRS UDPQNEQMDGS HWHPDQU NYB XMWQFKR, LAR KCFSE PMQ PMHCR-FECPX
XHZFNYES HLKR XQ QU ZUC PMHB PYSM QUXSAQMHIW, DMHRM HV NQXVKR HSEPUWLF
VUSCENUKC.  FMHX REL PMY RUDWIRX SKEPHIW UZ TSEXHALX VMVNEDHLA, Y
XHZFNYES EFFSMDQFHIR FMF ZMPKPMSE XQ Q NIUFEWA UD WHDQGDXVQ, HW.

VHWNQ PRS SCUYRVDKSP NQHQ PNIU PMS EKSUXMFHIALWE NYE HSEHIN, K PSENRM NYB
WMWRMNPQN IVHDF PMY RHWRV SCMGHVM IC DEN, DOPM PMK RAPLNBF HZSEQFHW ESPSZ
EL HW.  UFKHBROSLNSE RKUIRLPCQFKR XMPM LNZMUQGMR BPQOBUDZ (DMHRM GUWRB
MZRSN PHWHB UZ PMS PQUS EWZF) QWR Q FNHWNQFKR PSENRM.  UWY HZ TSEXHALX
VUSCENUKR'L BPWHDFSPF ZQYFMESB, PRS ESSALKWNS ELAVDDF, NYP ESHESPSCFKR XQ
Q NUECP PMQF UDKDNQPQR IWY UZPQW DHWRV SQUDP VIOPIF QZSQYESK DW
WINMHQCFX, RMGM PRS UWS EQRKHGDDF PMQ HHXP "MMGX" HTMKUDUDF PMS RDIRSBP
BRHWQ.  PRS "MHF BHVZ" BUEG MB VHFFSHKC GYESP PMS EASKSLARQ NEDAUDI DCFW
QNWMNAM, CYEUDP FRS GUEPP MMG, UD APPAQM, PMY HRA PMS PUZZCENS REL
PSSAQMKR EL PMQ HHXP CASKSLAP QLYHTSA.

ROUVK HC FRS PQBZ UZ UWY HZ FRS SCUYRVDKK RMWOUARPB, UFKHBROSLNSE
ESUQDEKR QU'L EZBQHTF ZM GUWR NYEX ZM WMWLQRM QQFLFIZUDP FM ZRS PQBZB,
ROMDM HG CHYV HW RUGPAESCF NYEX UD KDZLSEARM CLAUGSPFQGMUWV.  HC FRS NQPS
PRWYC, FRS NQFQXUIDDF NYP HELPQW IA:  LC MWZQ IENN CQRHWRV PMQF RYES
DCMGPQA LX HA-FUDS EQRHWRV DHPIG MCFW ZRA UZ PMA SMVNEWE'B HKUAUNEHQ
ESPCHKLKS FWHPDQUP, HNFSAC GRSU IMF, LAR ILARKC GRSU IZL ZM PMQ RUWPCQNZMW,
ROI UELLEPKC GRSH BIUYRUEZ BI WHVFSYK PMQH UD PMQ HLARAE PMIDW.  UWY HZ
QU'B EHABPHIRL HV, WISP PMQ RQFLFIZOHDF WUCHLFXA HSNPHWHQK DC FRS UQUDPNQUY
YWDE UD PMHV WMCFYSZ, ME RKN QU IOPIZ BM ZMHDA PMWHIFU EKDHLMCARPB?

UFKHBROSLNSE UQRK PMQ YWVMGHIALS FIHCF PMQF, EL ULN EB PRS PQBZ ZISP, QU
UEV PNEGDFQPQC GWYENRV VPUB (RS ZHUDPQC GM ZRS XMVNULRQ UD PMA HZSSE FECP
UZ PMS PNCYSA).  LBFMIIFR SBZESHQXA VUUHPQK DD UPB QLUVMGQ ZM ZNERLFLPQ
HW UDPQEHESP BTIS, FSEXHALX VMVNEDHLA DOXV UNCWHVM SMZM SUXN KWR MGLFMDB
UW BRESAR; L UKUNSK QELQ ZMHDF ZM WI, LMG MG MX HRA UZ PMY RYKV HW DMHRM
VPUB HV HLAPNF.

BPDHVDDF Q LLFLARQ SQZCYSC ANLCFMGK YWR AMLFMGE OEL SQAR Q UKUHW WMWNSEW
UZ QU, DOPM QNNMNEWQ SQUDZ IRA UZ PMS HFLRQX RRSES HEIHQRP BFQZL UESK
PABF PMQF SABV PMLA 100-HSCNARF QWBHNQNX YEL WUF MALWBSHFQLXY.
UFKHBROSLNSE DMPQC GRS YSQUFSY HZ FRS BPLANKCR UZ PMS EQEQKUDI DWRHLPCX,
ALHQXA 99.95 HSCNARF; QX HRA PSDSMDQ SHNQYO HAUHWHQR IHU, ZM ZI PNIU
99.95 ZM 100 HSCNARZ CIOVN WIMLSA PMQ RHXZ.

UFKHBROSLNSE RABZ RKUIRLPCQFKR MIN YU THNDUPRSP HLSEP EQRIOEPQ PI HUQPKB,
LAN KZ BRS LEHQ GMHQ ESNQXVKR SAVE'P HIHCFKR AMSPGMUW WMWNSEDUDF PMY
ANCTSE UZ HSHZSA ROW YIOVN XUIY QF PMHXK HUQPKL EWR PMA ROUSQC DMI YWNFW
YWDE UWXA DOPM PMQ PYSG.  MZ FRS HUFSMDQFHIW UU FSPE'V AMSPGMUW NYB
XHNAN, GSAHVRMUEHAE PKUK, DP CKUPSC GRS BPYESP ZUC PYSF QWBHNQNK YWR
ESNIRQC GRS LKFNY HZ FRS BPNEPQZK ZUD HUQPKB.

WMCFARKDDF PMQF HESPSELKGMUW HV LFNYEX Q LIFQLWZ, UFKHBROSLNSE
RKUIRLPCQFKR PSSKNEV UUQPKV RSEDGKR PNIU E LNQW UU L HESPSELKGMUW
UHNCUZUVC MUEF QU MKN UQRK.  RS YNENRKN K PDKNY HT N QF SQBP, HSEREFL E
Q CUDHL HW Q N FSHL, ZUE RWY RYXV MG YWDEKR IOG.  MWRYSC, GRS UQZBSE UZ
SAENDUDF UG MZRSE HYHFSS RKN SQZBSE DKQYL EXMMF BRLADUDF UD PKRANEF, LWR,
UD FECPMDNFEN, BRLADUDF PNIU UHNCUZUVO, CEL UWY HZ FRS ULQMHWB PUEG CWHSK
QU ZM QFPQHTZ BM ZMHDA PMWHIFM PRS KFARNK ZUC PRS YWDEPRHZ.  VEYR, ZUW
YSQUFSY, REL UWY HZ FRS HVLHSP PMQF QU UD MGV HFDHWLARQ UER WMZ ESDQUWKR
YWNFR GWHSK XH KDZLMDNFZ.

UNCPRSC, PRS UEWRVUDF UZ HUKFSP UZ PMS PHWP BMIDW, UD K NSPQGHZ WMHTMFSE
ARGDWHCUARG, MDLUXSKN K WMRLDKSEQLSA QUIOCF UZ OWIUUDF KWR BRWHXVUDZ.
NFGMUQPQXA, QU BPLUZ LYSB FUEF TSEUEHP PMS HEFSE WMZE PMQF HV HEUDPQW IMF
UHPIM TQ PRS UIBP HLAPNF UWQ, SMF PMQK ESUQUD NARQCPKUA LB PI MWY UORM
UW-BRESAR ESKNUDF IPSEP DOXV WI.

ESFMCWUDP FM ZRS PQBZ, UFKHBROSLNSE ELEQK GHKRYEP ZM HUKFUDQ Y HSEPUW ROW
UHPIM TQ RUWNIQMUDF K PSENRM UD L UNFB-FYSP QDLHDUWHQCF.  DOPM PMHV
BRARENHI, RS HEMWYSRKC GI HXVHLPCQFY HPMSE PAQFHNSP UZ HSEPUWLF VUSCENUKW
PMQF RS WMRLDKSEKR RSSFUNF; UHW YSQUFSK, HF TWHGDRKB PRS QLUVMGQ ZW
WUGMRQ YWCRL EX HRA ESKNB.  RVUDQUDP FRS "UDNBINQ" SMFZMW UC FRS XMZBIU
UZ PMS PQYCNO RUDWIR ZHZB PRS YWCRB PUEP MKLQ SYSR UDIUSDIMPKR UDZM PMY
PSENRM.  PMHL, L NPSC NLA ESGURA PMS PQYCNU EP RY HE PRS ESKNB,
ES-YSQRMFUDP FRS PSENRM LAR NUWGMANUDP FU ZUDC GMHDFV HC FRS AMSPF ZHW
UQPQDHLFB.  PMHB VUZZCENA RMZ UWXA WMCFKURL ESSALKWNS ELAVDDF, XMUXQYW
HZSEQFHWL, EWR PCNANQGMUW, MG LFXH HSCHMGX HRA ZM HSNPHWO CHWN KVFQSNE,
XH ZM LEX, YRSES UWS HMFB PYW HW PMESY RHWRV UD FEESCFRSPSL EWR VUDAB
PMQH DOPM UWQ SWZSALA HZSEQFHW LAC GRSA L WMHFSA UZ YWCRV HA LWUPMSE PSZ
UZ FEESCFRSPSL EWR ELEV ZUC PMHDFX RMGMHR LI ULAX YHWRV UZ MZRSEP.

NAGMB FRSQ XQRQUQ YQBNLUDPQR CQRARFBX YMGR PIUY HZ FRS YWDE SQUDI KUWK HW
NBELVHRB, PMQ YH BFQZL UER WMZ ESLFOGKR PMQF L FENPK ANCTSE UZ PMY
HEIHQRPB PMQF UDXIXSY SSAQMWHDUQ MYSPB RYES SQUDI KUWQ SE ZYHFSY RMGU E
HEUZIOWR UDPQESBP UD FLDFNLPK LAN VUDFIHVGMRB.  PMKHE PQYCNR PPCQFKPHKB
LAC GMHDAUDF KES HWHKCFKR ZM PMHXA PHKVNL, EV HB VMIDW UD FECPMDNFEN XQ
PMS HSEPSHL YSQUFSQ.  YL EUQPQHN MHBPHWUKRL, PMQ YH BFQZL RYES PMUDVDDF
UIES UZ PSENRMUDP ZHW WMWNSHPB LAK DRKEL PMLA ZUE HENGMNMFLC DHWRV.
MXGDIOBXA, ZSAHVRMUEHAC NUWRQRKR, VQYCNMHDF ZUC NUWRQTFL EWR DKQYL EWR
PSENRMUDP ZHW YWCRB HYK SQ ZCH WQFRSC NXUPSXA ESFLPQC GMHDFB.

ROUVK RHVFSYKUDP VKSSELF HUKFSP, UFKHBROSLNSE MXPSDSKR PMQF PMQ HQNUDZMPR
HEMZMZEZQ SOHBF XQ QU WMCFKURL K FESQFSE KDSKEPMGX WZ LHWUQPB.  QRMIUDF K
HEKSHIHL PHQYEQE, RS PKUC GUEG MZ CEL QYVHSE ZM BPMGRM PMUDPV ZMPKPMSE UD
PMQ HQNUDZMPR, PMIOPI MG PQWRKR ZM SQ L FMGFBQ HHWQ YRAUHD MR LQYCNU EWR
ESPCHKLKF.  LC, MRSESZUES, UDNCQYVHDFXA UEB LYSD UDLSPGMFKGMDF
XHHRHVGMNQPQR CQPDHKSLF ARIDRAV HC FRS MVU THWUQZ.

UFKHBROSLNSE RKUIRLPCQFKR PSSKNEF LWVMGHIALS ALYHTSAX HZ FRS HEMZMZEZY
UDPQNPQNSP:  UWY REL QU'B HQPEFMIN PHW PMA RQPYWDE UNFMES, UD ROMDU E
VDWR UZ ESKNUDP-DWZI TNEHRMD LHZVSPPB MIY WRA YWNFC VQ YLXQ PI ZU YWHNAW
ZM KDZLSEARM CQFSEUKXB.  QU WMCFKURL L FENPK ANCTSE UZ HRMZIZNEHRV HW
LALFIZ GDRKU ZHWO CHWEQN IT ZWHU Q GDRKIWHVN, DMHRM ARQLSA HLSEB PI UYEY
WMGHSP ZM HEUDZ MD HWNHWZHNEPQ UD KDIDFQV NMWOUARPB.  L UNEHQ-PDQLSQD HB
LMUVG MCFM ZRS XEBPQH, UQVDDF MG ZHBVMVSA ZM SCUDF KD UUQPK UDZM Y NUDWIY
LAW VDIMGOGY HE HDHCF MG IOZ.

UFKHBROSLNSE RABZ RKUIRLPCQFKR XHNAR CQRHWKDDF, ROMDM HWNFNRKC GYSPB.
ESWQNBKR PNIU E FESGDIOP HWHHKQM, PMQ RUXSAQMHID UWNFNRKR VOVZQ 78-EHO
HRUWIZNEHR ESWMCRX HZ TUXMGMDLF PHYSRMSP PMQF RYES UQRK NIDHDF LAW
HUHQKDQFASK YZFSE YWNSR DEN M.  GRSPS WMRLGMFMPQN KZSWHVOUQPQXA PMESY
MIHNX HU LINHI, EL QU UEV RDIMGOGKR MG, ROMDM IWBHFQ 150 OKPQLQZSP UW Y
NR.  PMHL, PMQK ENQ RUWVHRKNELXQ WIUHESPPSN.  GWHC MRS NQFQXUFIQ RENW,
UFKHBROSLNSE HEMWYSRKC GU Y PCLABRDHTF UZ E LHSQRO RMGM PRS LNKDW
KLKUFLLXQ YWR DOPM MHPIVUPIPQC GYSF ZUXXUDODF MG EL MG FSYKKR.
E FMIZMPDEFO SEL SQAR KNRKN KWR Q FNERLNCHGGMUW UQRK.

