Boolean logic is not in Perseus 1.0 but will be added to the next
version, although an effort is being made not to restrict Perseus to a
database in which one just performs searching, Boolean or otherwise.  It
is possible to move laterally through the documents by selecting a word
one is interested in and selecting an area of information one is
interested in and trying to look that word up in that area.

Since Perseus was developed in HyperCard, several levels of customization
are possible.  Simple authoring tools exist that allow one to create
annotated paths through the information, which are useful for note-taking
and for guided tours for teaching purposes and for expository writing.
With a little more ingenuity it is possible to begin to add or substitute
material in Perseus.

Perseus has not been used so much for classics education as for general
education, where it seemed to have an impact on the students in the core
course at UEDSENN (K PKRANES NQAOHESR NIOEPQ PUEP BFMRKCFB HHLZ BYEK HW
RQCPKUA LESEL).  BPINARPB RYES QLSA ZM HLS HDHUQWE UQPQDHLF UORM UIES.

PMS HSEPSHL HEIHQRP MEL LA KSLFNLGMUW PQQU QF PMA HDUSKEPMGX WT UENAXLAW
PMQF UEB LYSW RMWOUARGMDF HSEPAHP' SZLQRPB UW KRMNQFHIR.  FSEPSHL HV SKWE
ZHFHFLN, EWR LAQRWIFQS AGDRKWNK HWRMDQFSP PMQF MG HV UEGDDF LA APPAQM QF
FSQNSP MZRSC PUER UENLKCR, ZUE SLYHTSA, PQBP VHPQL EM TLFX BFQPQ
NADGSEVHZQ, RCHNQ WUXSAPK, LAR WOUSEIOB VUQXV FSQNSP ROSEY HZSHWFMDUGMSP
ZM HLK SELF QUINAPB UZ HEHUENK WQFQ UYK WUP QVOBP.  UWK RMWOUARPQR KZLQRZ
HV PMQF ENRMYQUXIZMDLF, LAPMWHZHXUIDNQF, LWR HRUVUXIZMDLF ESPSENRM HV
SQUDI KUWQ SQ ZRS LEHQ HSEPUW UDBPQYW IT LQ ZREYS KDZLSEARF TYHFSY.

PMQ RUWPQBZNLV UAUHWUQGMUW UD HSEPAHV HWNFNRKL EW USKDSHKR YBVYK, Y
