
  `I--I'm a little girl,' said Alice, rather doubtfully, as she
remembered the number of changes she had gone through that day.

  `A likely story indeed!' said the Pigeon in a tone of the
deepest contempt.  `I've seen a good many little girls in my
time, but never ONE with such a neck as that!  No, no!  You're a
serpent; and there's no use denying it.  I suppose you'll be
telling me next that you never tasted an egg!'

  `I HAVE tasted eggs, certainly,' said Alice, who was a very
truthful child; `but little girls eat eggs quite as much as
serpents do, you know.'

  `I don't believe it,' said the Pigeon; `but if they do, why
then they're a kind of serpent, that's all I can say.'

  This was such a new idea to Alice, that she was quite silent
for a minute or two, which gave the Pigeon the opportunity of
adding, `You're looking for eggs, I know THAT well enough; and
what does it matter to me whether you're a little girl or a
serpent?'

  `It matters a good deal to ME,' said Alice hastily; `but I'm
not looking for eggs, as it happens; and if I was, I shouldn't
want YOURS:  I don't like them raw.'

  `Well, be off, then!' said the Pigeon in a sulky tone, as it
settled down again into its nest.  Alice crouched down among the
trees as well as she could, for her neck kept getting entangled
among the branches, and every now and then she had to stop and
untwist it.  After a while she remembered that she still held the
pieces of mushroom in her hands, and she set to work very
carefully, nibbling first at one and then at the other, and
growing sometimes taller and sometimes shorter, until she had
succeeded in bringing herself down to her usual height.

  It was so long since she had been anything near the right size,
that it felt quite strange at first; but she got used to it in a
few minutes, and began talking to herself, as usual.  `Come,
there's half my plan done now!  How puzzling all these changes
are!  I'm never sure what I'm going to be, from one minute to
another!  However, I've got back to my right size:  the next
thing is, to get into that beautiful garden--UWY HV PMQF ZM SQ
WIRA, O DUWRKN?'  EB VRS LEDK PMHV, PRQ RQUS PINRKAFA OZHA LW
HZAR FSQNY, RMGU E VUZBSA MIHLK HD UF QXMMF ZUHN PAQP MHPI.
`ROHYSKN SDGSP PMSEQ,' PMIIFMP LFMDK, `HF'BF AKSSE WI ZM WMHQ
HFUW PMQH PMHV VHPY:  ROK, O PRIOVN PNDIMPAR PMQH IOZ MZ FRSHD
DOPB!'  XH PRQ SKPLA DULVVUDF QF PMS EDIMPUEWR VMF QFKUD, LAW VDK
WUG BARFMES ZM ZI RAEN PMS RIOPS GMXV PRS RKN SCIOPIP MSEPSFU
WIDW ZM DURA UDRMSP MHPI.



                           RMEFPQD SO

                         GHF KWR HSZSSE


  ZUN E UHANPQ HW ZCH XRS BPWZN VWZVDDF QF PMS RIOPS, LAW
YWWRSEUDZ DUEZ BI WU WYSZ, CRSR LINRKAFK Y ZUMZUQD UA FDGSEQ WQUY
NHWLUDZ IMF UZ PMY RWZR--(VRS WMRLDKSEKR MHC MM XQ Y ZUMZUQW
SQNQHLS RY REL UD VUSKWE:  MZRSCDHVK, HINIDDF XQ MHL PQNY HAFX,
PRY RIOVN UESK NQXVKR MHU Q GUPR)--LAR CEFHSN VIONVK YZ BRS WIHW
DOPM MHV EANDQSAV.  HZ CEL HZARKR XQ LAMZRSN PWZMCLA UD VUSKWE,
DOPM E NIOWR ULRQ, LAN VENPK QKSP VUEQ L UWHF; KWR XMPM ZUMZHQW,
LFMDA RMZMDKR, UER GWYRKESR IKUC PUEM QHNSAN KXV IXSE PMKHW
RSKNB.  VRS PABF SKWE NMDHIOB PI YWUY ZUEG MZ CEL LFF LXMMF, LAW
NCSHF Q VUZBSA NYX WMF UZ PMY RWZC GU XHVPQW.

  PMA PHVU-PWZMCLA SQFKC LE ZWHNIDMDF PNIU NARKE RHV ENU Q PDQYZ
SAZBSE, RAENXA EL FLDPQ YP RHUPSFU, LAC GMHP RS RLARKW ISKC PW
PMY HPMSE, LEKODF, UD E LUXQHC FUWA, `PHW PMK RMNRSBV.  LA
UDGDFQGMUW PNIU PMQ AHAAR ZM FSYK NCMYHAZ.'  BRS PNIZ-ZUMZUQW
ESHSQFKR, UD PMS PQUS PUXQHC FUWY, HAFQ WUEDFUDP FRS HWRKW HZ FRS
YWCRL E VUZBSA, `PNIU PMQ AHAAR.  LA UDGDFQGMUW ZUC PRS NIRMSPB
ZM FSYK NCMYHAZ.'

  PMAR PMQK XMPM XMRYN VWY, LAC GRSHD NMNSV PMZ ARFQDFSAW
ZMPKPMSE.

  LFMDA SLNPIKR XH UORM QF PMHV, PMQF PRS RKN ZM NHC LQNV DCFW
PMY RWZN GHW PAEN UZ PMKHE RQYDHDF RSN; EWR ROAR PRA RYSF TYSHSW
IOZ BRS GUPR-ZUMZUQW DEL ZIRA, LAC GRS MZRSC DEL VHZBUDZ IC FRS
PDIOWR RAEN PMK RWZE, PFQDHDF BPHFDKXA HF UDZM PMS PEK.

  LFMDY RARZ BHUDKXA HF ZM PMK RWZN, EWR ADMWEQW.

  `PMSES'P WU XHCP UZ HLK HD AWUDQUDP,' VKUC GRS ZUMZUQA, `LWR
PMQF ZUC PYW ESELUWL.  PHDBP, SQNQHLK H'U IC FRS LEHQ VHRK UZ PMY
WIHW EL XWN LES; PSWMWRXA, SQNQHLQ PRSE'WQ HYEUDP VMNU E WUHVY
UDVHRK, WU UWQ RIOVN ZHBVMVXA RSEN XWN.'  LWR RQCPKUAFQ ZRSES NYB
Q UHXP QBZNEHWKDALWE WUHVK PIHDF UW DOPMUD--Q NUWBPLAP MWYVUDF
LAR VRAYPUDF, KWR KSSEA WWY LAC GRSA L PDQYM QNEPR, EL UG K NHVO
HW EQZBSA UEC VYSC LWHEQC FH ZHKRQB.

  `FSQYPS, PMAR,' LEDK LFMDS, `RWY QU M GI ZQP UD?'

  `PMSEQ HDIMP SQ XHHQ PSRLK HW AIOD EWUDQUDP,' FRS ZUMZUQW DARZ
UW DOPMIOF QZBARKDDF ZM RSD, `HZ NS RKN PMK RWZC SQPRYAR HL.  ZUW
UDBPLARQ, UG XWO NSEK HRLDKQ, KIO UHPIG QWUDQ, LAK D WMNFN VQP
XWO IMF, XWI AWUR.'  OY REL XUIYUDF IG HCFM ZRS VEK YXV PMQ PHUY
RS NYB VHSYEUDF, KWR PMHV LFMDQ PMIIFMP RKDMRKNVA OWNDGUV.  `LMZ
HSEREFP RQ RLA'P MASG HP,' BRS LEDK ZM RSEPASP; `UHV QKSP ENS PW
SKWE RAENXA QF PMQ PHZ UZ MHP RQYC.  VMF QF LAE WQFS RQ HDIMP
LAXRSE AMSPGMUWP.--RWY QU M GI ZQP UD?' PRS ESHQYPQN, KXUIN.

  `H VUEXV VHP MSEQ,' PRS ZUMZUQW CQHENEQC, `GUVB FIUHWWHY--'

  QF PMHV UIHQCF PMK RWZW HZ FRS MIHLY HHSRAN, KWR L FENPK FSQFY
NQHQ VEHUUHDF IOP, BPCKUPIF QZ BRS ZUMZUQR'L RSKN:  MG HOBP
PDYFKR MHL RHXQ, YWR SCIYQ PH ZHKRQL EFKUDBP UWY HZ FRS PCYSB
SQMHWR MHO.

