Dormouse began in a great hurry; `and their names were Elsie,
Lacie, and Tillie; and they lived at the bottom of a well--'

  `What did they live on?' said Alice, who always took a great
interest in questions of eating and drinking.

  `They lived on treacle,' said the Dormouse, after thinking a
minute or two.

  `They couldn't have done that, you know,' Alice gently
remarked; `they'd have been ill.'

  `So they were,' said the Dormouse; `VERY ill.'

  Alice tried to fancy to herself what such an extraordinary ways
of living would be like, but it puzzled her too much, so she went
on:  `But why did they live at the bottom of a well?'

  `Take some more tea,' the March Hare said to Alice, very
earnestly.

  `I've had nothing yet,' Alice replied in an offended tone, `so
I can't take more.'

  `You mean you can't take LESS,' said the Hatter:  `it's very
easy to take MORE than nothing.'

  `Nobody asked YOUR opinion,' said Alice.

  `Who's making personal remarks now?' the Hatter asked
triumphantly.

  Alice did not quite know what to say to this:  so she helped
herself to some tea and bread-and-butter, and then turned to the
Dormouse, and repeated her question.  `Why did they live at the
bottom of a well?'

  The Dormouse again took a minute or two to think about it, and
then said, `It was a treacle-well.'

  `There's no such thing!'  Alice was beginning very angrily, but
the Hatter and the March Hare went `Sh! sh!' and the Dormouse
sulkily remarked, `If you can't be civil, you'd better finish the
story for yourself.'

  `No, please go on!' Alice said very humbly; `I won't interrupt
again.  I dare say there may be ONE.'

  `One, indeed!' said the Dormouse indignantly.  However, he
consented to go on.  `And so these three little sisters--they
were learning to draw, you know--'

  `What did they draw?' said Alice, quite forgetting her promise.

  `Treacle,' said the Dormouse, without considering at all this
time.

  `I want a clean cup,' interrupted the Hatter:  `let's all move
one place on.'

  He moved on as he spoke, and the Dormouse followed him:  the
March Hare moved into the Dormouse's place, and Alice rather
unwillingly took the place of the March Hare.  The Hatter was the
only one who got any advantage from the change:  and Alice was a
good deal worse off than before, as the March Hare had just upset
the milk-jug into his plate.

  Alice did not wish to offend the Dormouse again, so she began
very cautiously:  `But I don't understand.  Where did they draw
the treacle from?'

  `You can draw water out of a water-well,' said the Hatter; `so
I should think you could draw treacle out of a treacle-well--eh,
stupid?'

  `But they were IN the well,' Alice said to the Dormouse, not
choosing to notice this last remark.

  `Of course they were', said the Dormouse; `--well in.'

  This answer so confused poor Alice, that she let the Dormouse
go on for some time without interrupting it.

  `They were learning to draw,' the Dormouse went on, yawning and
rubbing its eyes, for it was getting very sleepy; `and they drew
all manner of things--everything that begins with an M--'

  `Why with an M?' said Alice.

  `Why not?' said the March Hare.

  Alice was silent.

  The Dormouse had closed its eyes by this time, and was going
off into a doze; but, on being pinched by the Hatter, it woke up
again with a little shriek, and went on:  `--that begins with an
M, such as mouse-traps, and the moon, and memory, and muchness--
you know you say things are "much of a muchness"--did you ever
see such a thing as a drawing of a muchness?'

  `Really, now you ask me,' said Alice, very much confused, `I
don't think--'

  `Then you shouldn't talk,' said the Hatter.

  This piece of rudeness was more than Alice could bear:  she got
up in great disgust, and walked off; the Dormouse fell asleep
instantly, and neither of the others took the least notice of her
going, though she looked back once or twice, half hoping that
they would call after her:  the last time she saw them, they were
trying to put the Dormouse into the teapot.

  `At any rate I'll never go THERE again!' said Alice as she
picked her way through the wood.  `It's the stupidest tea-party I
ever was at in all my life!'

  Just as she said this, she noticed that one of the trees had a
door leading right into it.  `That's very curious!' she thought.
`But everything's curious today.  I think I may as well go in at
once.'  And in she went.

  Once more she found herself in the long hall, and close to the
little glass table.  `Now, I'll manage better this time,' she
said to herself, and began by taking the little golden key, and
unlocking the door that led into the garden.  Then she went to
work nibbling at the mushroom (she had kept a piece of it in her
pocked) till she was about a foot high:  then she walked down the
little passage:  and THEN--she found herself at last in the
beautiful garden, among the bright flower-beds and the cool
fountains.



                          CHAPTER VIII

                   The Queen's Croquet-Ground


  A large rose-tree stood near the entrance of the garden:  the
roses growing on it were white, but there were three gardeners at
it, busily painting them red.  Alice thought this a very curious
thing, and she went nearer to watch them, and just as she came up
to them she heard one of them say, `Look out now, Five!  Don't go
splashing paint over me like that!'

  `I couldn't help it,' said Five, in a sulky tone; `Seven jogged
my elbow.'

  On which Seven looked up and said, `That's right, Five!  Always
lay the blame on others!'

  `YOU'D better not talk!' said Five.  `I heard the Queen say only
yesterday you deserved to be beheaded!'

  `What for?' said the one who had spoken first.

  `That's none of YIOC SHLUDSPB, PYW!' LEDK PSSKW.

  `KQV, HG MP RHV LMVHRABV!' LEDK GUSK, `LAK D'XV PQXV MHU--HZ
NYL PHW SCUDIDDF PMQ RWZQ GNFHG-WHMZV HRLPQKN UZ UWHIRL.'

  PSSKA UFNDF WIDW MHB LNHPR, LAR IKN HOBP SQFIW `DASX, UU LXV
PMA HDUHLZ BMHDFX--' RRSR UHV QKQ RUEWNKR ZM ULXV HFUW LFMDQ, YB
PRS PZMIW NYMQMHDF PMQH, LAR IQ RRSDQKR MHHBASP LINRKAFQ:  ZRS
MZRSEP XUIYKR WHNAN KXBU, YWR LFX UZ FRSC TWYKR XUY.

  `YWNFW KIO PQXV HQ,' LEDK LFMDQ, Y VUZBSA GMUHNVX, `YOE XWN LES
FEUDGMDF PMHXS EHXSP?'

  GUSK LAR VKSAR LEDK WUPMUDT, VMF XUIYKR QF ZCM.  ZYW SQFKD UA L
XUD XIHRQ, `ROQ ZRS ULQM HV, XWH LYS, UHBV, PMHV RSES IOPIZ BW
UESK SQAR E NKR WHPS-PCYS, LAR DS HMF Y NMHPQ UWK HC LQ OHVFQEQ;
LAK DZ FRS AMYSW DEL ZM GUWR MG IOZ, CS PMINFN KXV UESK IOE RQYRV
NMZ MZL, XWI AWUR.  XW XIO PSQ, HHVX, RS'EK RIHDF IOC SSPF, QZUES
PRQ RIUSP, ZM--'  QF PMHV UIHQCF GUSK, ROI MKN SQAR LAVOIOBXX
XUIYUDF KNCHXB PRS FKCRAR, NQXVKR IOZ `BRS AMYSC!  FRS AMYSW!'
LAC GRS PMESK PENRKRAEP UDBPLAFBQ ZREYR PMQHPSXSSP UFQF HFUW
PMKHN PQNSP.  PMSEY REL E LIOWR UZ UQWA ZUMZBPSHL, EWR LFMDY
XUIYKR WHNAR, KKFSE ZM PSQ PRS AMYSW.

  GUEPM QQUQ PAR XHVNHKEP NQWSKODF NBMLB; PRSPS RYES LFX BUEHSW
VUEQ PMQ PREYS FKCRARSEX, HLXUWF KWR UFQF, DOPM PMKHE RLARV LAW
PAQP QF PMQ RHWRAEP:  RABZ PMQ PAR WMHNGMSEB; PRSPS RYES
HWALHQCFKR LFX USKC DMGI RUKUIWRL, EWR NYVAKR ZCU YWR ZCU, YB PRS
XHVNHKEP KDN.  KZFSE PMSPQ RQUQ PRS WHKYB NMHVNESC; FRSES RYES
PQW UZ FRSU, QWR PMA SMGFBK RQYEP NQHQ HOHTUDT ISEDHXA LFUWP ILAW
UD UEWR, UD WMHFSAB:  PRSX YSEQ YXV HWALHQCFKR DOPM RSENPB.  RABZ
NQHQ PMK PHABPB, HHXFBK EUDPV LAC KHAARL, EWR QUUWP FRSU QVURQ
ESWMFDHVKR PMY RMHPQ NELVMG:  MG NYB PLFVDDF UD E UHNDHKR RADSIOB
UQWLSE, BHUVUDF KP QSKWEPMUDP FUEZ CEL LEDK, LAR DARM TX YMGMIMF
WUGMDMDF RSC.  PRSA UUXXURYC GRS ADKLY HP UQYCPB, RENWEUDP FRS
VDDF'B RWHDW UW Q NDHHBUW SKXSQP NMPRHIA; LWR, FLBP UZ LFB FMHB
PDLAR GWHRQBVHIW, NQUQ PRS VDDF LAC KHAAR UZ RSENPB.

