projects that involve electronic texts were being done by people with a
profound interest in language and linguistics.  Their search strategies
and thinking are oriented to those fields, as is shown in particular by
the Perseus example.  As amateur historians, the AM staff were thinking
more of searching for concepts and ideas than for particular words.
Obviously, FLEISCHHAUER conceded, searching for concepts and ideas and
searching for words may be two rather closely related things.

While displaying several images, FLEISCHHAUER observed that the Macintosh
prototype built by AM contains a greater diversity of formats.  Echoing a
previous speaker, he said that it was easier to stitch things together in
the Macintosh, though it tended to be a little more anemic in search and
retrieval.  AM, therefore, increasingly has been investigating
sophisticated retrieval engines in the IBM format.

FLEISCHHAUER demonstrated several additional examples of the prototype
interfaces:  One was AM's metaphor for the network future, in which a
kind of reading-room graphic suggests how one would be able to go around
to different materials.  AM contains a large number of photographs in
analog video form worked up from a videodisc, which enable users to make
copies to print or incorporate in digital NMWOUARPB.  L UNEHQ-PDQLSQD HB
LMUVG MCFM ZRS XEBPQH, UQVDDF MG ZHBVMVSA ZM SCUDF KD UUQPK UDZM Y NUDWIY
LAW VDIMGOGY HE HDHCF MG IOZ.

UFKHBROSLNSE RABZ RKUIRLPCQFKR XHNAR CQRHWKDDF, ROMDM HWNFNRKC GYSPB.
ESWQNBKR PNIU E FESGDIOP HWHHKQM, PMQ RUXSAQMHID UWNFNRKR VOVZQ 78-EHO
HRUWIZNEHR ESWMCRX HZ TUXMGMDLF PHYSRMSP PMQF RYES UQRK NIDHDF LAW
HUHQKDQFASK YZFSE YWNSR DEN M.  GRSPS WMRLGMFMPQN KZSWHVOUQPQXA PMESY
MIHNX HU LINHI, EL QU UEV RDIMGOGKR MG, ROMDM IWBHFQ 150 OKPQLQZSP UW Y
NR.  PMHL, PMQK ENQ RUWVHRKNELXQ WIUHESPPSN.  GWHC MRS NQFQXUFIQ RENW,
