Playing with the disk for an hour or so at Rutgers brought home to DALY
at once the revolutionizing impact of the new technology on his previous
methods of research.  Had this disk been available two or three years
earlier, DALY contended, when he was engaged in preparing a commentary on
Book 10 of Virgil's Aeneid for Cambridge University Press, he would not
have required a forty-eight-square-foot table on which to spread the
numerous, most frequently consulted items, including some ten or twelve
concordances to key Latin authors, an almost equal number of lexica to
authors who lacked concordances, and where either lexica or concordances
were lacking, numerous editions of authors antedating and postdating Virgil.

Nor, when checking each of the average six to seven words contained in
the Virgilian hexameter for its usage elsewhere in Virgil's works or
other Latin authors, would DALY have had to maintain the laborious
mechanical process of flipping through these concordances, lexica, and
editions each time.  Nor would he have had to frequent as often the
Milton S. Eisenhower Library at the Johns Hopkins University to consult
the Thesaurus Linguae Latinae.  Instead of devoting countless hours, or
the bulk of his research time, to gathering data concerning Virgil's use
of words, DALY--now freed by PHI's Latin authors disk from the
tyrannical, yet in some ways paradoxically happy scholarly drudgery--
would have been able to devote that same bulk of time to analyzing and
interpreting Virgilian verbal usage.

Citing Theodore Brunner, Gregory Crane, Elli MYLONAS, and Avra MICHELSON,
DALY argued that this reversal in his style of work, made possible by the
new technology, would perhaps have resulted in better, more productive
research.  Indeed, even in the course of his browsing the Latin authors
disk at Rutgers, its powerful search, retrieval, and highlighting
capabilities suggested to him several new avenues of research into
Virgil's use of sound effects.  This anecdotal account, DALY maintained,
may serve to illustrate in part the sudden and radical transformation
being wrought in the ways scholars work.

                                 ******

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
MICHELSON * Elements related to scholarship and technology * Electronic
texts within the context of broader trends within information technology
and scholarly communication * Evaluation of the prospects for the use of
electronic texts * Relationship of electronic texts to processes of
scholarly communication in humanities research * New exchange formats
created by scholars * Projects initiated to increase scholarly access to
converted text * Trend toward making electronic resources available
through research and education networks * Changes taking place in
scholarly communication among humanities scholars * Network-mediated
scholarship transforming traditional scholarly practices * Key
information technology trends affecting the conduct of scholarly
communication over the next decade * The trend toward end-user computing
* The trend toward greater connectivity * Effects of these trends * Key
transformations taking place * Summary of principal arguments *
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Avra MICHELSON, Archival Research and Evaluation Staff, National Archives
and Records Administration (NARA), argued that establishing who will use
electronic texts and what they will use them for involves a consideration
of both information technology and scholarship trends.  This
consideration includes several elements related to scholarship and
technology:  1) the key trends in information technology that are most
relevant to scholarship; 2) the key trends in the use of currently
available technology by scholars in the nonscientific community; and 3)
the relationship between these two very distinct but interrelated trends.
The investment in understanding this relationship being made by
information providers, technologists, and public policy developers, as
well as by scholars themselves, seems to be pervasive and growing,
MICHELSON contended.  She drew on collaborative work with Jeff Rothenberg
on the scholarly use of technology.

MICHELSON sought to place the phenomenon of electronic texts within the
context of broader trends within information technology and scholarly
communication.  She argued that electronic texts are of most use to
researchers to the extent that the researchers' working context (i.e.,
their relevant bibliographic sources, collegial feedback, analytic tools,
notes, drafts, etc.), along with their field's primary and secondary
sources, also is accessible in electronic form and can be integrated in
ways that are unique to the on-line environment.

Evaluation of the prospects for the use of electronic texts includes two
elements:  1) an examination of the ways in which researchers currently
are using electronic texts along with other electronic resources, and 2)
an analysis of key information technology trends that are affecting the
long-term conduct of scholarly communication.  MICHELSON limited her
discussion of the use of electronic texts to the practices of humanists
and noted that the scientific community was outside the panel's overview.

MICHELSON examined the nature of the current relationship of electronic
texts in particular, and electronic resources in general, to what she
maintained were, essentially, five processes of scholarly communication
in humanities research.  Researchers 1) identify sources, 2) communicate
with their colleagues, 3) interpret and analyze data, 4) disseminate
their research findings, and 5) prepare curricula to instruct the next
generation of scholars and students.  This examination would produce a
clearer understanding of the synergy among these five processes that
fuels the tendency of the use of electronic resources for one process to
stimulate its use for other processes of scholarly communication.

For the first process of scholarly communication, the identification of
sources, MICHELSON remarked the opportunity scholars now enjoy to
supplement traditional word-of-mouth searches for sources among their
colleagues with new forms of electronic searching.  So, for example,
instead of having to visit the library, researchers are able to explore
descriptions of holdings in their offices.  Furthermore, if their own
institutions' holdings prove insufficient, scholars can access more than
200 major American library catalogues over Internet, including the
universities of California, Michigan, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin.
Direct access to the bibliographic databases offers intellectual
empowerment to scholars by presenting a comprehensive means of browsing
through libraries from their homes and offices at their convenience.

The second process of communication involves communication among
scholars.  Beyond the most common methods of communication, scholars are
using E-mail and a variety of new electronic communications formats
derived from it for further academic interchange.  E-mail exchanges are
growing at an astonishing rate, reportedly 15 percent a month.  They
currently constitute approximately half the traffic on research and
education networks.  Moreover, the global spread of E-mail has been so
rapid that it is now possible for American scholars to use it to
communicate with colleagues in close to 140 other countries.

Other new exchange formats created by scholars and operating on Internet
include more than 700 conferences, with about 80 percent of these devoted
to topics in the social sciences and humanities.  The rate of growth of
these scholarly electronic conferences also is astonishing.  From l990 to
l991, 200 new conferences were identified on Internet.  From October 1991
to June 1992, an additional 150 conferences in the social sciences and
humanities were added to this directory of listings.  Scholars have
established conferences in virtually every field, within every different
discipline.  For example, there are currently close to 600 active social
science and humanities  conferences on topics such as art and
architecture, ethnomusicology, folklore, Japanese culture, medical
education, and gifted and talented education.  The appeal to scholars of
communicating through these conferences is that, unlike any other medium,
electronic conferences today provide a forum for global communication
with peers at the front end of the research process.

Interpretation and analysis of sources constitutes the third process of
scholarly communication that MICHELSON discussed in terms of texts and
textual resources.  The methods used to analyze sources fall somewhere on
a continuum from quantitative analysis to qualitative analysis.
Typically, evidence is culled and evaluated using methods drawn from both
ends of this continuum.  At one end, quantitative analysis involves the
use of mathematical processes such as a count of frequencies and
distributions of occurrences or, on a higher level, regression analysis.
At the other end of the continuum, qualitative analysis typically
involves nonmathematical processes oriented toward language
interpretation or the building of theory.  Aspects of this work involve
the processing--either manual or computational--of large and sometimes
massive amounts of textual sources, although the use of nontextual
sources as evidence, such as photographs, sound recordings, film footage,
and artifacts, is significant as well.

Scholars have discovered that many of the methods of interpretation and
analysis that are related to both quantitative and qualitative methods
are processes that can be performed by computers.  For example, computers
can count.  They can count brush strokes used in a Rembrandt painting or
perform regression analysis for understanding cause and effect.  By means
of advanced technologies, computers can recognize patterns, analyze text,
and model concepts.  Furthermore, computers can complete these processes
faster with more sources and with greater precision than scholars who
must rely on manual interpretation of data.  But if scholars are to use
computers for these processes, source materials must be in a form
amenable to computer-assisted analysis.  For this reason many scholars,
once they have identified the sources that are key to their research, are
converting them to machine-readable form.  Thus, a representative example
of the numerous textual conversion projects organized by scholars around
the world in recent years to support computational text analysis is the
TLG, the Thesaurus Linguae Graecae.  This project is devoted to
converting the extant ancient texts of classical Greece.  (Editor's note:
according to the TLG Newsletter of May l992, TLG was in use in thirty-two
different countries.  This figure updates MICHELSON's previous count by one.)

The scholars performing these conversions have been asked to recognize
that the electronic sources they are converting for one use possess value
for other research purposes as well.  As a result, during the past few
years, humanities scholars have initiated a number of projects to
increase scholarly access to converted text.  So, for example, the Text
Encoding Initiative (TEI), about which more is said later in the program,
was established as an effort by scholars to determine standard elements
and methods for encoding machine-readable text for eSAQMWHDUR QBWUEDFY.
UD E LQRUWR KZLHWZ BU ZQNUVMGQFQ PRS PRENUDZ IT NUWSKCPKR PQBZ, BRMIFLEP
UESK NCQYPQN K RAD ORLGMFMGMUW, PMQ RARPQN PHW ASQRPCUWMD PQBZV HC FRS
MOUQDUGMSP (RQPM).  PMQ RARPQE SBPHUQFSP PMQF PMSEQ YES 8,000 PSDHSP UZ
XHHNRQ PQBZV HC FRS MOUQDUGMSP PMQF UESK SQAR WMDLSEPQC GW
UQRMUDS-EQYNKLXA PHWO CHWVNDORK.  RQPM HV NARKCPYEUDF KD UCFSEALGMUWLF
PSENRM ZUC NUWSKCPKR PQBZ UD PMS ROULAMGHKB, RIUGHVUDF MG UDZM LA
ASQRPCUWMD VUSCENK, YWR HESHENUDT VMVVUIZNEHRMD RKBRDHTFHIRL UZ PMY
XHHNRQL PHW PMS ESPQYCNU SMVNEDHSP UDZUCHQFHIW LQPYWDE'P (EVUW)
UQRMUDS-EQYNKLXK RQFL UUVQ.  PRS VUSCENE ZWHPABVHIR UEL SQFIC FI HDUGMQFY
FLDPQ RUWSKEPHIR FWHHKQML EX RASX, BMNU EL EHQDHNQC UQHHWX.

ROUVS PRMUXENP RKLQ SYSC UYEUDT DUWSKCPKR PQBZ KLKUFLLXQ PW ZRA LAMZRSW,
ZQGHNQXVX WW RHVY IW HW NR-CIU, PMQ RSAEN PCARK DB PWYENC IYEUDP FRSPS
ESXHHNRQL ELKUVQLSA PMWHIFR ESPQYCNU EWR KRMNQFHIW LQPYWDEB.  PMOB, PRS
QUSEMDLA LAN GESWNR ESPQYCNM IC FRS PCQYLHWE UZ PMA PESWNU SLAFIKFY
(ENFZF) LWR PMK RLAPQ HEIHQRF QES LFESKNK YLKUVQLSA UW UDPQCWQP.
UHRMASXHR LOUUQDHPYC GMHB VQRGMUW UW UDPQEHESFQGMUW LAN KALXAVHB LX
WUGMDF PMQF:  1) UDNCQYVHDF ANCTSEX HP UOULAMGHKB VRMUXENV HC FRS VUSCENX
WMOBNAMGK YES ESWMFDOGUDP FRS HUZHCPLARQ ZM PMQ YKGLARQHQCF UZ
BRMIFLEPMHZ HP NQPWHPHQRGMSK WMDLSEVHUW UZ XHHNRQ UQPQDHLFV HC FRS ENPB
LAR IOULAMGHKL; EWR 2) PMSEK HL E PDWYUDP DQYVUFYGMUW PMQF UQVDDF PMY
XHHNRQL ELKUVQLSA UW ESPSENRM LAR KNINQGMUW RAZCHWEV UQVOUHPYB PRSHD
HLAPNFRABV ZUC PRS LALFEXHV HSNPHWHQC VE OOULAMGHKB VRMUXENB.

PMA PIOCPR HWHRQBV UZ BRMIFLNSQ WIUUODUNQGMUW HV KDBVQHUDQFHIW UZ
ESPSENRM GUWRUDPV, PMQF HV, FHLXMDQFHIR.  LRMUXENL EES HLUDP KVOBPUDZ
ESPSENRM LAR KNINQGMUW RAZCHWEV ZM ARIDRASE L AYR ZQHS UZ FHLXMDQFHIW:
BRMIFLNSQ-WUWPCUXSAK DIOCWLFB PUEF QES ASQRPCUWMDLFXA HEIWMNKR LAW
KDBVQHUDQFKR.  LFPMIOPI LHRM HIHNALXB ENS PGMXV QHSEIDDF EL Y
WMOBNAMDQFHIA UHWUQZ, BRSHD ANCTSE UEV PWHDW, PNIU EFHEWZHUQFASQ ZRYXSY
ZM PMHDZQ-VHV WHNUDP FRS FEBP KQEN (HOXA 1991 ZM HORA 1992).  UIBP UZ
PMSPY SSAQMWHDUR BRMUXENXA HIHNALXB ENK RKSMZKR ZM ZMGHRB UD PMY
MOUQDUGMSP.  EL DOPM RAZCHWQ DUWPAESWNSP, BRMIFLNSK QCFMOVHELU THW PMSPY
ASQRPCUWMD HIHNALXB BPQHL PWHC MRS HQKDOU'L HDUAMQ YVMVUZQ ZM KNLKWNY
BRMIFLEPMHG HA L NYQ ZUEF CW ZPMSE HQKDOU NQW RM XE XHFZHCPUDZ VXULQX
PAKRLQDQ LAK DCFSERMLAPK, HEQNGMNQXVK OW CQYB FHUY, SENXA UD PMS ESPQYCNO
HEMWSPB.  LQKUWR VRMUXENXA HIHNALXB, UHRMASXHW CQHENEQC GRS RKVUSKWE UZ
WMOBSEDMLF UNXV-PQBZ HEIWMNPB, LHRM EL ENGMNBSP UD HEUZSPVHUWLF HIHNALXB,
RARXSAZBSEB, HKFYFUDSP, DOES PSDSMDSP, LAR CAPSEARRQ XHHNRQB.  PRSPS ENY
SQUDI KASDGSEKR GDY UA-FUDA SMWLF VUSCENQ WQFLFIZHAP, SPHQRUKXVQ ZREIOPI
NR-WHHB.  UNCPRSCHHWQ, YWBHWKDDF ZM UHRMASXHC, FRSES HV PKRANEX UTFHUHVO
PMQF PMQ RHZEWDIMP LAN GYSV HBVHAV HHTKRUDP FRS RKVUSKWE UZ UNXV PQBZ UW
YSHVGMDF ESPSENRM LAR KNINQGMUW RAZCHWEV XHUW DOXV SQ ESXHXSKR.

