and instruction, and this involves the use of computer information
technologies in two areas.  The first is the development of
computer-oriented instructional tools, which includes simulations,
multimedia applications, and computer tools that are used to assist in
the analysis of sources in the classroom, etc.  The Perseus Project, a
database that provides a multimedia curriculum on classical Greek
civilization, is a good example of the way in which entire curricula are
being recast using information technologies.  It is anticipated that the
current difficulty in exchanging electronically computer-based
instructional software, which in turn makes it difficult for one scholar
to build upon the work of others, will be resolved before too long.
Stand-alone curricular applications that involve electronic text will be
sharable through networks, reinforcing their significance as intellectual
products as well as instructional tools.

The second aspect of electronic learning involves the use of research and
education networks for distance education programs.  Such programs
interactively link teachers with students in geographically scattered
locations and rely on the availability of electronic instructional
resources.  Distance education programs are gaining wide appeal among
state departments of education because of their demonstrated capacity to
bring advanced specialized course work and an array of experts to many
classrooms.  A recent report found that at least 32 states operated at
least one statewide network for education in 1991, with networks under
development in many of the remaining states.

MICHELSON summarized this section by noting two striking changes taking
place in scholarly communication among humanities scholars.  First is the
extent to which electronic text in particular, and electronic resources
in general, are being infused into each of the five processes described
above.  As mentioned earlier, there is a certain synergy at work here.
The use of electronic resources for one process tends to stimulate its
use for other processes, because the chief course of movement is toward a
comprehensive on-line working context for humanities scholars that
includes on-line availability of key bibliographies, scholarly feedback,
sources, analytical tools, and publications.  MICHELSON noted further
that the movement toward a comprehensive on-line working context for
humanities scholars is not new.  In fact, it has been underway for more
than forty years in the humanities, since Father Roberto Busa began
developing an electronic concordance of the works of Saint Thomas Aquinas
in 1949.  What we are witnessing today, MICHELSON contended, is not the
beginning of this on-line transition but, for at least some humanities
scholars, the turning point in the transition from a print to an
electronic working context.  Coinciding with the on-line transition, the
second striking change is the extent to which research and education
networks are becoming the new medium of scholarly communication.  The
existing Internet and the pending National Education and Research Network
(NREN) represent the new meeting ground where scholars are going for
bibliographic information, scholarly dialogue and feedback, the most
current publications in their field, and high-level educational
offerings.  Traditional scholarly practices are undergoing tremendous
transformations as a result of the emergence and growing prominence of
what is called network-mediated scholarship.

MICHELSON next turned to the second element of the framework she proposed
at the outset of her talk for evaluating the prospects for electronic
text, namely the key information technology trends affecting the conduct
of scholarly communication over the next decade:  1) end-user computing
and 2) connectivity.

End-user computing means that the person touching the keyboard, or
performing computations, is the same as the person who initiates or
consumes the computation.  The emergence of personal computers, along
with a host of other forces, such as ubiquitous computing, advances in
interface design, and the on-line transition, is prompting the consumers
of computation to do their own computing, and is thus rendering obsolete
the traditional distinction between end users and ultimate users.

The trend toward end-user computing is significant to consideration of
the prospects for electronic texts because it means that researchers are
becoming more adept at doing their own computations and, thus, more
competent in the use of electronic media.  By avoiding programmer
intermediaries, computation is becoming central to the researcher's
thought process.  This direct involvement in computing is changing the
researcher's perspective on the nature of research itself, that is, the
kinds of questions that can be posed, the analytical methodologies that
can be used, the types and amount of sources that are appropriate for
analyses, and the form in which findings are presented.  The trend toward
end-user computing means that, increasingly, electronic media and
computation are being infused into all processes of humanities
scholarship, inspiring remarkable transformations in scholarly
communication.

The trend toward greater connectivity suggests that researchers are using
computation increasingly in network environments.  Connectivity is
important to scholarship because it erases the distance that separates
students from teachers and scholars from their colleagues, while allowing
users to access remote databases, share information in many different
media, connect to their working context wherever they are, and
collaborate in all phases of research.

The combination of the trend toward end-user computing and the trend
toward connectivity suggests that the scholarly use of electronic
resources, already evident among some researchers, will soon become an
established feature of scholarship.  The effects of these trends, along
with ongoing changes in scholarly practices, point to a future in which
humanities researchers will use computation and electronic communication
to help them formulate ideas, access sources, perform research,
collaborate with colleagues, seek peer review, publish and disseminate
results, and engage in many other professional and educational activities.

In summary, MICHELSON emphasized four points:  1) A portion of humanities
scholars already consider electronic texts the preferred format for
analysis and dissemination.  2) Scholars are using these electronic
texts, in conjunction with other electronic resources, in all the
processes of scholarly communication.  3) The humanities scholars'
working context is in the process of changing from print technology to
electronic technology, in many ways mirroring transformations that have
occurred or are occurring within the scientific community.  4) These
changes are occurring in conjunction with the development of a new
communication medium:  research and education networks that are
characterized by their capacity to advance scholarship in a wholly unique
way.

MICHELSON also reiterated her three principal arguments:  l) Electronic
texts are best understood in terms of the relationship to other
electronic resources and the growing prominence of network-mediated
scholarship.  2) The prospects for electronic texts lie in their capacity
to be integrated into the on-line network of electronic resources that
comprise the new working context for scholars.  3) Retrospective conversion
of portions of the scholarly record should be a key strategy as information
providers respond to changes in scholarly communication practices.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
VECCIA * AM's evaluation project and public users of electronic resources
* AM and its design * Site selection and evaluating the Macintosh
implementation of AM * Characteristics of the six public libraries
selected * Characteristics of AM's users in these libraries * Principal
ways AM is being used *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Susan VECCIA, team leader, and Joanne FREEMAN, associate coordinator,
American Memory, Library of Congress, gave a joint presentation.  First,
by way of introduction, VECCIA explained her and FREEMAN's roles in
American Memory (AM).  Serving principally as an observer, VECCIA has
assisted with the evaluation project of AM, placing AM collections in a
variety of different sites around the country and helping to organize and
implement that project.  FREEMAN has been an associate coordinator of AM
and has been involved principally with the interpretative materials,
preparing some of the electronic exhibits and printed historical
information that accompanies AM and that is requested by users.  VECCIA
and FREEMAN shared anecdotal observations concerning AM with public users
of electronic resources.  Notwithstanding a fairly structured evaluation
in progress, both VECCIA and FREEMAN chose not to report on specifics in
terms of numbers, etc., because they felt it was too early in the
evaluation project to do so.

AM is an electronic archive of primary source materials from the Library
of Congress, selected collections representing a variety of formats--
photographs, graphic arts, recorded sound, motion pictures, broadsides,
and soon, pamphlets and books.  In terms of the design of this system,
the interpretative exhibits have been kept separate from the primary
resources, with good reason.  Accompanying this collection are printed
documentation and user guides, as well as guides that FREEMAN preparSN GHW
PQQNRSEP XH PMQF PMQK UQQ XKPUD HLUDP FRS WMCFARZ MZ FRS XEBPQH QF UWRQ.

SKWBUK RKBRDHSQC GRS KSLFNLGMUW HEIHQRM TAPHWQ PLFVDDF QLIOZ BRS FHLXMD
HLSEX HU LU, BHUMGUDP ISE ESUQDEB PH ZMLVUN BMVNEDHSP, SQNQHLA PESQHLA
YWNFC GLFQ IHWS PHSDMGUNQXVK YXMMF BRMIUXL PWHI QUDRKDPENPQC FM ZRYFUPM
PDKNQ (E-12).   UEGDDF BPENPQK DR LHEUDP 1991, FRS KSLFNLGMUW NMWSARFBX
UDXIXSSP PQBPUDZ IZ FRS UQDMCFHXM HHTSAHQCFQFHIW UU LH.  BUDRQ PMY
HEHUENK ZUYX UZ FMHP SLKFNQFHID UB PI WQPSEUHRA PMQ HHXF QZSWHHEUKPQ
LNKDARRQ HW LNKDARRQL PHW QU, SKWE KDZLSEARP BMGSP RYES PSSAQMKR.  PMHV
UQEQP SLKFNQFHIW RUGGUNMBF SQNQHLY HZ FRS LKWEUDI KKPESSP UZ PQRMWUXUZK
VUPQNEWQ QUUWP FRS VHPQL.  EU HB VMGNLPQK DA UHWZQ-ZUHN XUNQGMUWX, HZ
ROMDR POV ENS HMLVUN BMVNEDHSP LAR VOVPQAR ENS PRMWZXB.  ESHESPARPQW
QUUWP FRS BRMIUXL EES ASQHARFQWE, HODUHW MHPI, LAR IDIR PRMWZXB.
KDBPDHQM UZGURQL EXBU YES UDXIXSKR UD PMY SLKFNQFHIW, DMHRM DOXV
WMWNFNRK UD LHOBSE 1993.

SKWBUK ZUNMPSC GRS ESUQUDRKW HP USE FQVA UW PMS POV FHLXMD VUSCENHKX, HRA
UZ ROMDI RIOLXSP EL E LFQPQ VUSCENQ.  ZRSE WSHESPSCF E NLAPK UZ
PKIZNEHRMD ENQYL EWR E NLAPK UZ RKUIPDEFMHW BUENEQMSEHVGMRB.  ZUW
YSQUFSQ, PREYS ENA SMWQFKR UD HNLQR LQPGMDFB, PYW UD NHNEX BQPGMDFL, EWR
UWK HA L LHLMCSLA PSZBUDF.  K NEDFY HZ FQRURMDLF YSHSCPHVK HB PM XA PIOWR
QUUWP FRSPS ULDMVUGMSP EL RYXV.  ZUE SLYHTSA, UWK HL EA "LZSSA VUSCENX WZ
PMA PMFHNY," RMHSA ZCW ZPMSEL EES NHNEX URA-WHIU VUSCENHKV--HW URA, QU
VHPB QF PMA PWHCF RKVE RABZ ZM Q FNEQMHW UQANLF.

LFS FMLVUN BMVNEDHSP UESK SQAR YSPCQHASK QCFMOVHELGMR, BHFZHCPDGQ, YWR
EFHEQRUKGMSK UZ PMY RHWQ GUEF QU MEL SQAR WIUDI.  GQRDMQ NUENEQMSEOGKR
LKDHIOL HPSEP:  UIBP HLSEV HR FMLVUN BMVNEDHSP RKBRDHSQ PMQHPSXSSP EL
PKRANES NQYRKEP; UZ PMS PFMRKCFX RMI HLQ YU HC FRS FHLXMD VUSCENHKB,
PMHXK HA UIOCPI PNERK LAN KXMSK PSQH UIBP UDPQESBPKR.  FHLXMD VUSCENHKB
UD NHNEX BMGSP PQWR ZM QFPCQNP CQPHDKR HSHZSA, ROI MKLQ SYSR UDIUSX
ESRQTFDGQ PU YU.  OPSEP PQWR ZM ULXV UDZM ZCU YWVMGHIALB NQFKPHWHKB:
HSHZSA UDPQESBPKR UD PMQ RUWPQCF LAR IHVZMDHNQB NUWWUFQGMUWX HZ FRSPS
HEHUENE WSPIOCNSP, LAC GMIPS ULBRUDQFKR XQ PMQ PQRURUXIZQ.  ZRS ZUCHQF
ESRQDGUDP FRS UIBP WMOBARPB UEB LYSC UMZHIR FMDFMESB.  PRS KNNFF MPSEP UD
FHLXMD VUSCENHKL EES UIES WMUTHWFQLXY RMGM HTC WMHTMFSEX, RRSESEL XWNAZ
HSHZSA PSQH WMUTHWFQLXY RMGR SMGRSD HTC HW UQDMCFHXU, EBFMIIFM UHXZ MZ
PMQH PSQH ZM WMHQ PNIU Q UQNUDZMPR LQDQPDIOWR.  PMHV LEHQ PQWRARWQ HV
ZUNAK DC FRS BRMIUXB.

ROQF VDWRX HZ FMHDFV RI OPSEP WI DOPM QU?  UD E FMLVUN BMVNEWE PMSEQ YES
ZCI UKUD FUYXB HW NYEX PMQF QU HV SQUDF IPSN:  KL ED UWRDGDKNLX VQYCWUDZ
ZMUX, LAN KL E SAHVHNQ YQMDGMGK.  YNIBF SAENDUDF NYX HRA ENQY PMQF SKWBUK
YWNFR IDIUSDIMP EL E FHXVHLXQ YZSVUNQGMUW ZUN E ZMUX LHRM EL QU.  PRY
RKBRDHSQN K FEPCUW UZ E NHNLF FHLXMD VUSCENX YMI WMHQV HR ASKWE NKX WW
MHB XNARM MIHN LAN VMGSELFXA ESKNL EO, BQPMIKDNQXVK ZIHDF PMWHIFM PRS
WMXVQRGMUW HUKFQ SK OUQPK.  QF PMY SWR UZ MHP RIOE RQ HYESP LA ASQRPCUWMD
XMIYUQDE, FHPB MG UD MHP HMWEQF, QWR ESFMCWB PW YHWQ.  GRS RABZ NKE OY
WMHQV HA LWR ESLHHQX RRSES RS SAZF UZG.  UCFSESPGMDFXA, PMHV UQR UKN
RASKC SYSD UC FRS VUSCENQ XAPHWS RA HPSN KU.  HA LWUPMSE BHLFS, NHNLF
VUSCENQ, ZRS WMHWKDALZMW SSHHWPB PMQF QU HV E FHZNFEN QNGMGDZQ ZUE PIUY
UZ PMY HVNSE, ESGMESR GYHFSK HC FRS WMOBNAMGX, YMI HWKDALDHXA YWNFR WMZ
HLQ "PMIPS PMUDPV,"--WMHTMFSEL.  EWUPMSE YSQUFSY HU LNIBF SAENDUDF UD
FHLXMD VUSCENHKV HB LWZV IWHHFX, HRA UZ ROMDM, HR FENGMNMFLD, HL HVHDF QU
EL FECP UZ MGP EQYKDDF UW UDNIBPDHLFOGQFHID, UCFKPNEGMUW, LAN ICSLAOGQFHIW
UD PMY SENXA 1900B.

UWA SMVNEWE ESZHCPB PUEF Q ULUHXA HV HLUDF KC MI MASH SNINQPQ PMKHW
RMUVRCAR.  UD LAMZRSD HRLFQWNK, HWRDGDKNLXB PNIU L FMWLF UOPSOU NQHQ UD
ZM HLQ YC MH ZESFEES LA YSMHVMZ MC FWXX HZ FRS FEBP.  PMSPQ PYW YSQUFSSP
QHHRELOGQ PRS UHBVHIW UZ FRS FHLXMD VUSCENK YL E NMBFHNLF UDBPMGMFHIW,
ESQNMHDF IOZ BH ZYHFSY RMI WI WUP MKLQ PRS LEHQ ESXHHNRQL ELKUVQLSA ZM
PMHXY RMI VUSK UD Q UQPWHZHVUFQA LESY UE RKLQ YWBSPB PU Y UQHIN SMVNEWE.
UWS EHNLF VUSCENE WSHHWPB PMQF HODUHW MHPI BRMIUX BPINARPB UD FLDPY
ANCTSEB RQUK HW URA LUPQCWWZC FI OPS QU ZUE SCFSEFQUDHQCF.  L AOUSQW HZ
FHLXMD VUSCENHKP ESHHWPQK IESQF UDPQESBP QUUWP THXMQENR NUXSAQMHWV HC FRS
RKPCIHM QUXSAQMHIW, DMHRM NYP SBVARGMLFXA Q NUXSAQMHIW UG UUQPKL HPSW IW
ZHBPNQCRL EWHNAC GRS FMCW UZ PMQ RARFMWE.  PCKUC LNUPL ENS PHUUVENXA
UDPQESBPKR SQNQHLQ PUEZ CEL Q FHUY HZ PESQF UDPQESBP UD NEUVWHKNUDZ.
HSHZSA, MG NYL PIOWR, ESFLPQ ZM PMUDPV PMQF PMQK ADWY UZ GUEPPMLAN.  GHW
YSQUFSK, HC LMZR EHNLF FHLXMD VUSCENHKX RRSES QU NYB HKNQ YLKUVQLSA,
MXPSDSSEP ESHHWPQC GUEZ BRS UXRKE HYHFSY RMGR HSEXHALS NQHQHSCLARQX HZ
PMQ PHNW UZ FRS RQCFHNX YSEK PNEGDFQGMDF ZM PMK RQPWHMG WMXVQRGMUW.
PMSPY SLYHTSAB VSESKC GI OWRSEBRHWQ HMDRSXBUW'X HLBSELKGMUW ES PMY
UDPQPDQFHIW UP ASAQMWHDUQ MWZXB LAK DRKEL--PMQF HSHZSA SAENC LSPZ CRSW
PMQ HQFSEUKS NASQFSP ZM XHHQPMUDP FRSK EWUY.

SKWBUK UQRK PMA PUDLF ZHUDZ BUEG MC ULAQ WELSP QU PSDSSP EL Y
FHLXMD-ESFLGMUWB PWZF UHW PMS HMLVUN BMVNEDHSP PMQF ENQ PSPGMDF MG.  UD
UWQ RELQ, YU HB LKHDF HLKR EL K LSRMDSA ZM PSNMES KNKDGMUWLF UNWRUDP ZHW
PMA SMVNEWE.  UD LAMZRSC NELQ, YU MEL PSDSKR EL LA UDPHHDQFHIC FM ZRS
BPLUZ UU L UQHIN SMWLF FHLXMD VUSCENK OC FRS XHMFM PM ZMHDA QLIOZ CYKB PW
