
                                  ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
FREEMAN * AM and archival electronic resources in a school environment *
Questions concerning context * Questions concerning the electronic format
itself * Computer anxiety * Access and availability of the system *
Hardware * Strengths gained through the use of archival resources in
schools *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Reiterating an observation made by VECCIA, that AM is an archival
resource made up of primary materials with very little interpretation,
FREEMAN stated that the project has attempted to bridge the gap between
these bare primary materials and a school environment, and in that cause
has created guided introductions to AM collections.  Loud demand from the
educational community,  chiefly from teachers working with the upper
grades of elementary school through high school, greeted the announcement
that AM would be tested around the country.

FREEMAN reported not only on what was learned about AM in a school
environment, but also on several universal questions that were raised
concerning archival electronic resources in schools.  She discussed
several strengths of this type of material in a school environment as
opposed to a highly structured resource that offers a limited number of
paths to follow.

FREEMAN first raised several questions about using AM in a school
environment.  There is often some difficulty in developing a sense of
what the system contains.  Many students sit down at a computer resource
and assume that, because AM comes from the Library of Congress, all of
American history is now at their fingertips.  As a result of that sort of
mistaken judgment, some students are known to conclude that AM contains
nothing of use to them when they look for one or two things and do not
find them.  It is difficult to discover that middle ground where one has
a sense of what the system contains.  Some students grope toward the idea
of an archive, a new idea to them, since they have not previously
experienced what it means to have access to a vast body of somewhat
random information.

Other questions raised by FREEMAN concerned the electronic format itself.
For instance, in a school environment it is often difficult both for
teachers and students to gain a sense of what it is they are viewing.
They understand that it is a visual image, but they do not necessarily
know that it is a postcard from the turn of the century, a panoramic
photograph, or even machine-readable text of an eighteenth-century
broadside, a twentieth-century printed book, or a nineteenth-century
diary.  That distinction is often difficult for people in a school
environment to grasp.  Because of that, it occasionally becomes difficult
to draw conclusions from what one is viewing.

FREEMAN also noted the obvious fear of the computer, which constitutes a
difficulty in using an electronic resource.  Though students in general
did not suffer from this anxiety, several older students feared that they
were computer-illiterate, an assumption that became self-fulfilling when
they searched for something but failed to find it.  FREEMAN said she
believed that some teachers also fear computer resources, because they
believe they lack complete control.  FREEMAN related the example of
teachers shooing away students because it was not their time to use the
system.  This was a case in which the situation had to be extremely
structured so that the teachers would not feel that they had lost their
grasp on what the system contained.

A final question raised by FREEMAN concerned access and availability of
the system.  She noted the occasional existence of a gap in communication
between school librarians and teachers.  Often AM sits in a school
library and the librarian is the person responsible for monitoring the
system.  Teachers do not always take into their world new library
resources about which the librarian is excited.  Indeed, at the sites
where AM had been used most effectively within a library, the librarian
was required to go to specific teachers and instruct them in its use.  As
a result, several AM sites will have in-service sessions over a summer,
in the hope that perhaps, with a more individualized link, teachers will
be more likely to use the resource.

A related issue in the school context concerned the number of
workstations available at any one location.  Centralization of equipment
at the district level, with teachers invited to download things and walk
away with them, proved unsuccessful because the hours these offices were
open were also school hours.

Another issue was hardware.  As VECCIA observed, a range of sites exists,
some technologically advanced and others essentially acquiring their
first computer for the primary purpose of using it in conjunction with
AM's testing.  Users at technologically sophisticated sites want even
more sophisticated hardware, so that they can perform even more
sophisticated tasks with the materials in AM.  But once they acquire a
newer piece of hardware, they must learn how to use that also; at an
unsophisticated site it takes an extremely long time simply to become
accustomed to the computer, not to mention the program offered with the
computer.  All of these small issues raise one large question, namely,
are systems like AM truly rewarding in a school environment, or do they
simply act as innovative toys that do little more than spark interest?

FREEMAN contended that the evaluation project has revealed several strengths
that were gained through the use of archival resources in schools, including:

     * Psychic rewards from using AM as a vast, rich database, with
     teachers assigning various projects to students--oral presentations,
     written reports, a documentary, a turn-of-the-century newspaper--
     projects that start with the materials in AM but are completed using
     other resources; AM thus is used as a research tool in conjunction
     with other electronic resources, as well as with books and items in
     the library where the system is set up.

     * Students are acquiring computer literacy in a humanities context.

     * This sort of system is overcoming the isolation between disciplines
     that often exists in schools.  For example, many English teachers are
     requiring their students to write papers on historical topics
     represented in AM.  Numerous teachers have reported that their
     students are learning critical thinking skills using the system.

     * On a broader level, AM is introducing primary materials, not only
     to students but also to teachers, in an environment where often
     simply none exist--an exciting thing for the students because it
     helps them learn to conduct research, to interpret, and to draw
     their own conclusions.  In learning to conduct research and what it
     means, students are motivated to seek knowledge.  That relates to
     another positive outcome--a high level of personal involvement of
     students with the materials in this system and greater motivation to
     conduct their own research and draw their own conclusions.

     * Perhaps the most ironic strength of these kinds of archival
     electronic resources is that many of the teachers AM interviewed
     were desperate, it is no exaggeration to say, not only for primary
     materials but for unstructured primary materials.  These would, they
     thought, foster personally motivated research, exploration, and
     excitement in their students.  Indeed, these materials have done
     just that.  Ironically, however, this lack of structure produces
     some of the confusion to which the newness of these kinds of
     resources may also contribute.  The key to effective use of archival
     products in a school environment is a clear, effective introduction
     to the system and to what it contains.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
KDBRHLVHUW * WUPMUDI VWUDW, AMLAGMFQGMSKXA, QLIOZ BRS ANCTSE UZ
MOUQDUGMSP BRMIFLEP ROI UHLP BYS PMY HDHIDALX SSELHB PMIPS ROW YIOVN
PSZBSA ZUN ER AKDPQC GNERLNCHGZ, MN EXMMF PMY RYKV HW DMHRM MOUQDUGMSP
BRMIFLEP ENA HVHDF UDZUCHQFHIC FQRURUXIZA * ZHDC QUWNBHLHIRL WMWNSEDUDF
PMQ HLARAN EWR YSPQCF UZ PMA HPS UZ LHZSHWGMDF UQPQDHLFV HR FDHCF
HEIXDKKR XQ QU ZM YNKUM QIUFSQPHIW UP ALKFNQFDGS PFMWK * L FHVPQRAE'P
ESUFQRGMUWX HA LWVMGHIALF LZSVUNQGMUWX HP ASAQMWHDUQ MYSPB * WHSA UZ
ASQRPCUWMD ESXHHNRQV HC FQYRMUDP KSAHQCFENE WSPQYCNR PVDXVB PH XFMRKCFB *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

NIDHDF PMK RHVNMBVHIC FUEF ZUXXURYC GRS HESPARFQGMUWB LQ OMDRSXBUW,
SKWBUK, LAN GESQHLA, KNKDGMUWLF ZHUDPB QHSEPKW.

SAVE ELEQK DT UMDRSXBUW WMNFK IDGQ YWA AMLAGMFQGMSK SPGMUQPQ UZ PMY
ANCTSE UZ MOUQDUGMSP BRMIFLEP ROI UHLP BYS HW NYCF ZM PSQ PRS HWDIUDLF,
HW PMQ SSPF THXVHLXK SSEVHUW UZ PMQ HQFSEUKX, SSELHB PMIPS ROM ZEZMDLFXA
YWNFR VQPFBA PHW LA KRMGKR PCLABRDHTF.  ROUVA HALLXQ PH ZWHGDRK L UDIHNY,
PRY HZLSEKR RSD HHTESBVHIRL EL LA ENRMDGHVZ CMI UEV RUWS PIUS EAPSEARRQ
YWDE LAR IEL KDBRHLPSC GMHV HBVHA DOPM MZRSN ECNMHGDBPX RMI HSNPHWO
ESPAESWNQ, PUEZ BMIPS ROI OPS ENRMDGSP LAC GMIPS ROI OPS HEHUENE XIOCNSP
ZUC DUEZ CIOVN SQ WMRLDKSEKR SKWE MHPI-SASKX BRMUXENXA ESPSENRM, EL
HZZHPSC GH, XYK, NARKDPNENIQFS HEFSEX, RSEA PYR UD ANCTSE, SPHSDMLFXA
IDSKC FRS FHLXMD UDPQESBP UD HLUDP TDHUQWE XHHNRQB PM WUWNIQM
PKRALFIZMDLF HW KLMWQFHIALS NSPQYCNU EWR PMQ EUDW IZ TWHPABVHIALX
ESPSENRM WIRA XQ HSHZSA UD HEDGQFK HWRHLPCX WC PRS PARKNEV FIXSECUARZ.
UIES HUZHCPLAG MC UMDRSXBUW'B SHKY ZEL PMQF, AMLAGMFQGMSKXA, WUPMUDI DB
ADWYA LXMMF PMY RYKV HW DMHRM, ZUE SLYHTSA, MOUQDUGMSP BRMIFLEP ENA HVHDF
UDZUCHQFHIC FQRURUXIZA.  WH XFMKDSP YSHVZ BW ZZLSE FIDKLARQ UD NCQYGMDF
BPNEPQIDSP.  PMQ HHXP CQRARP BFMWK NYB RUWNIQMKR UD 1985 XQ PMQ YHQDHNQW
WMNADMX UU FQYCWKR XHDMQPHKL (ENBL), EWR ROQF MG PRWYKR NYB PUEZ 50
HSCNARZ MP UOULAMGHKB VRMUXENL EZ BUEZ BHUY RSEA HVHDF WMHTMFSEB.  PUEZ
WMRLGMFMPQB PRS YSPQCF UZ IOD EWUNXKRPK.

WMWNSEDUDF QU'B VPCQFKPA ZHW HWHKCFUDP TYHFSQ PWYENC GRS BRHZY HZ
ASQRPCUWMD ESXHHNRQL, PESQHLA WMNFW IZLSE WU UECR WMWNFNVHUWL EZ BMHB
ZHUDM, TQRLNPS PRQ YWR RSC NUXSAKFHAX RSES PGMXV NYMGUDP FH XYS,
FECPMDNFENXA UD PMS PRMWZXB, ROQF UEB LYSC UKNY HZ FRSHD APZUCPX.  RMGMHW
PMS PEXPQU, MWYKSSE, QU UEP HWHGDRKR DUEF QES NQXVKR ASQRPCUWMD YSMHVMPB-
-LHRM EL UDPCIWMNGMUWB PM ZHUS HSEHIRV LAC IQFSEUKXB--LAC GRSPS ENY
UDPQWRKR ZM UZPAN E BPINARF MPSN E PSRLY HZ NUEF Q SCUYRVDKK HL  EWR ROQF
MG UHPIZ BASS USE HW MHC.  TMF PNYSUQW NUWRQRKC GUEZ BRS HEIHQRP BFQZL
YWNFR IKLQ PM ZLFY DMGR PFMRKCFL RYSZ QQYN, EZFSE PQQNRSEP UESK UEN K
LHOBSE ZM HLQ PRS UQPQDHLFL, EWR QFPQHTZ BI WHVWMSKC DUEZ BRS BPINARPB
RYES SAENDUDF PNIU PMQ HQFSEUKXB.  UD KNKDGMUW, PNYSUQW RSPNCMVKR
LHZSHWGMDF UQPQDHLFV HR FDHCF HEIXDKKR XQ QU QF PMS EQAHABP UZ XUNQX
PQQNRSEP NIDHDF Q UYSGMDF RSVN QF BN.  PMSPK HWNFNRKC GHUA SUDSP,
VMLXHIPDEFMHSP, LAW IPMSE UQPQDHLFB PUEM QIOVN SQ ESHEIWMNKR UW Y
HRMZMWHZHKD HA L NBELPEWZC.  MQYRMSEB RIOVN NYVA YNYK DOPM LAN IPS PMSPY,
LAK DC FMHX RYK FKUD Q LQPPQN HWRSEBPLAKDDF UZ PMQ RUWPQCFB.  LMF KFKUW,
ESQNMHDF GUCH WMWNFNVHUWB RUWRQCWUDP FRS UQWLSE LAR KBZARZ MZ FRSHD HLY
YWNFR IKLQ PW YKUF MCFUV RABZ KQEN.

EL ZM PMQ RUEDFSP PRS PYN MWNMWSUDF KZ BRS ALGMUWLF ENRMDGSP LAR CQRHWRV
KNUHDUBPNEGMUW (ALNE) EL E NSPNFZ MZ FRS UDNCQYVHDF QHHRELHV UW
