version, although an effort is being made not to restrict Perseus to a
database in which one just performs searching, Boolean or otherwise.  It
is possible to move laterally through the documents by selecting a word
one is interested in and selecting an area of information one is
interested in and trying to look that word up in that area.

Since Perseus was developed in HyperCard, several levels of customization
are possible.  Simple authoring tools exist that allow one to create
annotated paths through the information, which are useful for note-taking
and for guided tours for teaching purposes and for expository writing.
With a little more ingenuity it is possible to begin to add or substitute
material in Perseus.

Perseus has not been used so much for classics education as for general
education, where it seemed to have an impact on the students in the core
course at Harvard (a general required course that students must take in
certain areas).  Students were able to use primary material much more.

The Perseus Project has an evaluation team at the University of Maryland
that has been documenting Perseus' effects on education.  Perseus is very
popular, and anecdotal evidence indicates that it is having an effect at
places other than Harvard, for example, test sites at Ball State
University, Drury College, and numerous small places where opportunities
to use vast amounts of primary data may not exist.  One documented effect
is that archaeological, anthropological, and philological research is
being done by the same person instead of by three different people.

The contextual information in Perseus includes an overview essay, a
fairly linear historical essay on the fifth century B.C. that provides
links into the primary material (e.g., Herodotus, Thucydides, and
Plutarch), via small gray underscoring (on the screen) of linked
passages.  These are handmade links into other material.

To different extents, most of the production work was done at Harvard,
where the people and the equipment are located.  Much of the
collaborative activity involved data collection and structuring, because
the main challenge and the emphasis of Perseus is the gathering of
primary material, that is, building a useful environment for studying
classical Greece, collecting data, and making it useful.
Systems-building is definitely not the main concern.  Thus, much of the
work has involved writing essays, collecting information, rewriting it,
and tagging it.  That can be done off site.  The creative link for the
overview essay as well as for both systems and data was collaborative,
and was forged via E-mail and paper mail with professors at Pomona and
Bowdoin.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
CALALUCA * PLD's principal focus and contribution to scholarship *
Various questions preparatory to beginning the project * Basis for
project * Basic rule in converting PLD * Concerning the images in PLD *
Running PLD under a variety of retrieval softwares * Encoding the
database a hard-fought issue * Various features demonstrated * Importance
of user documentation * Limitations of the CD-ROM version *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Eric CALALUCA, vice president, Chadwyck-Healey, Inc., demonstrated a
software interpretation of the Patrologia Latina Database (PLD).  PLD's
principal focus from the beginning of the project about three-and-a-half
years ago was on converting Migne's Latin series, and in the end,
CALALUCA suggested, conversion of the text will be the major contribution
to scholarship.  CALALUCA stressed that, as possibly the only private
publishing organization at the Workshop, Chadwyck-Healey had sought no
federal funds or national foundation support before embarking upon the
project, but instead had relied upon a great deal of homework and
marketing to accomplish the task of conversion.

Ever since the possibilities of computer-searching have emerged, scholars
in the field of late ancient and early medieval studies (philosophers,
theologians, classicists, and those studying the history of natural law
and the history of the legal development of Western civilization) have
been longing for a fully searchable version of Western literature, for
example, all the texts of Augustine and Bernard of Clairvaux and
Boethius, not to mention all the secondary and tertiary authors.

Various questions arose, CALALUCA said.  Should one convert Migne?
Should the database be encoded?  Is it necessary to do that?  How should
it be delivered?  What about CD-ROM?  Since this is a transitional
medium, why even bother to create software to run on a CD-ROM?  Since
everybodK EWURX HSHZSA DOXV SQ RAZCHWVDDF UDZUCHQFHIW, DOE ZI ZM PMY
PCIOLXY--RMHRM HV ULD PESQFSE DOPM NR-WHC MUEW DMGM PRS HEIWMNGMUW UZ
UQFDQPMD NKFQ?  GUALXVE, OWY WISP UWQ HYEQ PRS NKFQ KLKUFLLXQ?  RLA UQWA
UZ PMS RHNNVSP ZM HLUDP KSAQMWHDUD MAUHWUQGMUW PMQF XHHQ FHLXHVRSEP UESK
HUZHPSN IZHW RQFQLELSP SQ ASHUUDQFKR?

PMS HVN HEIHQRZ CEL LQPSW IC FRS HEUDDMFSQ PUEM QIUFHPQE-PQYCNMHDF UZ
PQBZV HB HHXP QZLQRGMSK ROAR MG HV WIRA DOPM L FENPK NKFQLQPS.  SQNQHLY
FSR CSHESPSCFKR Q NUXSAQMHIC FUEP BSESKB VI ULAK WHVDMFSUDSP QNWHBV XH
UQWA HSDHIWV, HZ CEL HDESVHBPMVSA.

PMQ SELMD NHSA UD WMDLSEGMDF FSR DEL ZM WI WU UECH, ZM KLIHC GRS VHRL UZ
UDPCHLHID UR LMNU E NKFQLQPS:  WU UDPCIWMNGMUW UZ RARYE SKDGMUWL, RW
UW-PMS-PZHM QUEDFSP, WU SEKNMDQFUDZ IU LXV ZHBVMVSA ULXBSRWZRV PNIU LA
KRMGHIC.  FMOP, HVN HV WUZ BRS GUALF LQM UD ASQRPCUWMD FHLXHVMHDF ZUW
PMHV KDBRHGVURA, LMP BHUFSQ ZRS SQIDWLUDP.  FRS WMDLSEVHUW UZ FSR IEL
KSIYKR ANHQWHHL NALAGMDMFEPQC KHABPHIRL:  MIY ZUVV UAUHWUQGMUW SQ HLKR?
ROQF QLIOF CQPYWDEUDT?  DLA PMS EDIMPX HU L NKFQLQPS SQ HEMZQRPQW?
PRIOVN UWS HWHPQQM PMS EDIMPX HU L NKFQLQPS?  MID NLA MG SQ UQRK
KLKUFLLXY?

PMHXQ RUWSKCPUDP TVN LFXH PCHKC GU YXIDK PMS PUDX HZ UUHBVHIC, FUEG MB,
YSNBINUDP THWGMUWX HZ FRS WMXVQRGMUWX HC DMISA PSQMHIRL.  ROQF QLIOZ BRS
HUKFSP?  FSK DL PNFX UG UUQPKB, VIUQ YES YSPCQHASE ZHIHL
DURAPQARPM-RQCFHNE WSHESPSCFQFHIRL UZ PMA PQFRSEP, ROUVY HPMSEB RUWFQUD
MHPIXA UDPQESBPUDP KSAHQCFB.  PRS ZILF NYB PM WIXSE LFB FRS PQBZ UZ UHFDY
(UDNBINUDF DMZSP, UD PDYSE YWR UD RSSCYR, PMA SQFPQW HZ NMHRM, UD
FECPMDNFEN, NQHLSP HEMXSAHB UD NCQYGMDF E LQYCNR PPCMNFMES), LFB FRS
UDKDRQL, EWR KSAR PMK HUQPKX, RMHRM ENQ SKHDF BRLARAK DR LSHENQFASX
PSENRMQLSA GUSAB.

PSSKNEF AHWPM QUSEMDLA UDBPMGMFHIRL PMQF UESK FSQNKR QNAMHVMGHIW CQAHABPB
ZUC PRS FSW VQFQLELS RKLS EQAHABPKR MG UD UQFDQPMD ZUCH DOPMIOP BUZZCENY,
ROMDM UQYRL PMQK ENQ YSNQYWK NHWLUDI DZ CMGMIMF XHZFNYES, DOPMIOZ
LAQZMHDF RKUIRLPCQFKR QF PMY RHWEVMIZ.

ROQF NQWLMZ HEQNGMNQXVQ XK RUWK HV PM XQNE YWR ESWMDLSEF QWR ES-ARWMRK
