Contending that preservation is always a bugaboo, FLEISCHHAUER
demonstrated several images derived from a scan of a preservation
microfilm that AM had made.  He awarded a grade of C at best, perhaps a
C minus or a C plus, for how well it worked out.  Indeed, the matter of
learning if other people had better ideas about scanning in general, and,
in particular, scanning from microfilm, was one of the factors that drove
AM to attempt to think through the agenda for the Workshop.  Skew, for
example, was one of the issues that AM in its ignorance had not reckoned
would prove so difficult.

Further, the handling of images of the sort shown, in a desktop computer
environment, involved a considerable amount of zooming and scrolling.
Ultimately, AM staff feel that perhaps the paper copy that is printed out
might be the most useful one, but they remain uncertain as to how much
on-screen reading users will do.

Returning to the text, FLEISCHHAUER asked viewers to imagine a person who
might be conducting a search in a full-text environment.  With this
scenario, he proceeded to illustrate other features of Personal Librarian
that he considered helpful; for example, it provides the ability to
notice words as one reads.  Clicking the "include" button on the bottom
of the search window pops the words that have been highlighted into the
search.  Thus, a user can refine the search as he or she reads,
re-executing the search and continuing to find things in the quest for
materials.  This software not only contains relevance ranking, Boolean
operators, and truncation, it also permits one to perform word algebra,
so to say, where one puts two or three words in parentheses and links
them with one Boolean operator and then a couple of words in another set
of parentheses and asks for things within so many words of others.

Until they became acquainted recently with some of the work being done in
classics, the AM staff had not realized that a large number of the
projects that involve electronic texts were being done by people with a
profound interest in language and linguistics.  Their search strategies
and thinking are oriented to those fields, as is shown in particular by
the Perseus example.  As amateur historians, the AM staff were thinking
more of searching for concepts and ideas than for particular words.
Obviously, FLEISCHHAUER conceded, searching for concepts and ideas and
searching for words may be two rather closely related things.

While displaying several images, FLEISCHHAUER observed that the Macintosh
prototype built by AM contains a greater diversity of formats.  Echoing a
previous speaker, he said that it was easier to stitch things together in
the Macintosh, though it tended to be a little more anemic in search and
retrieval.  AM, therefore, increasingly has been investigating
sophisticated retrieval engines in the IBM format.

FLEISCHHAUER demonstrated several additional examples of the prototype
interfaces:  One was AM's metaphor for the network future, in which a
kind of reading-room graphic suggests how one would be able to go around
to different materials.  AM contains a large number of photographs in
analog video form worked up from a videodisc, which enable users to make
copies to print or incorporate in digital documents.  A frame-grabber is
built into the system, making it possible to bring an image into a window
and digitize or print it out.

FLEISCHHAUER next demonstrated sound recording, which included texts.
Recycled from a previous project, the collection included sixty 78-rpm
phonograph records of political speeches that were made during and
immediately after World War I.  These constituted approximately three
hours of audio, as AM has digitized it, which occupy 150 megabytes on a
CD.  Thus, they are considerably compressed.  From the catalogue card,
FLEISCHHAUER proceeded to a transcript of a speech with the audio
available and with highlighted text following it as it played.
A photograph has been added and a transcription made.

Considerable value has been added beyond what the Library of Congress
normally would do in cataloguing a sound recording, which raises several
questions for AM concerning where to draw lines about how much value it can
afford to add and at what point, perhaps, this becomes more than AM could
reasonably do or reasonably wish to do.  FLEISCHHAUER also demonstrated
a motion picture.  As FREEMAN had reported earlier, the motion picture
materials have proved the most popular, not surprisingly.  This says more
about the medium, he thought, than about AM's presentation of it.

Because AM's goal was to bring together things that could be used by
historians or by people who were curious about history,
turn-of-the-century footage seemed to represent the most appropriate
collections from the Library of Congress in motion pictures. These were
the very first films made by Thomas Edison's company and some others at
that time.  The particular example illustrated was a Biograph film,
brought in with a frame-grabber into a window.  A single videodisc
contains about fifty titles and pieces of film from that period, all of
New York City.  Taken together, AM believes, they provide an interesting
documentary resource.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Using the frame-grabber in AM * Volume of material processed
and to be processed * Purpose of AM within LC * Cataloguing and the
nature of AM's material * SGML coding and the question of quality versus
quantity *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the question-and-answer period that followed FLEISCHHAUER's
presentation, several clarifications were made.

AM is bringing in motion pictures from a videodisc.  The frame-grabber
devices create a window on a computer screen, which permits users to
digitize a single frame of the movie or one of the photographs.  It
produces a crude, rough-and-ready image that high school students can
incorporate into papers, and that has worked very nicely in this way.

Commenting on FLEISCHHAUER's assertion that AM was looking more at
searching ideas than words, MYLONAS argued that without words an idea
does not exist.  FLEISCHHAUER conceded that he ought to have articulated
his point more clearly.  MYLONAS stated that they were in fact both
talking about the same thing.  By searching for words and by forcing
people to focus on the word, the Perseus Project felt that they would get
them to the idea.  The way one reviews results is tailored more to one
kind of user than another.

Concerning the total volume of material that has been processed in this
way, AM at this point has in retrievable form seven or eight collections,
all of them photographic.  In the Macintosh environment, for example,
there probably are 35,000-40,000 photographs.  The sound recordings
number sixty items.  The broadsides number about 300 items.  There are
500 political cartoons in the form of drawings.  The motion pictures, as
individual items, number sixty to seventy.

AM also has a manuscript collection, the life history portion of one of
the federal project series, which will contain 2,900 individual
documents, all first-person narratives.  AM has in process about 350
African-American pamphlets, or about 12,000 printed pages for the period
1870-1910.  Also in the works are some 4,000 panoramic photographs.  AM
has recycled a fair amount of the work done by LC's Prints and
Photographs Division during the Library's optical disk pilot project in
the 1980s.  For example, a special division of LC has tooled up and
thought through all the ramifications of electronic presentation of
photographs.  Indeed, they are wheeling them out in great barrel loads.
The purpose of AM within the Library, it is hoped, is to catalyze several
of the other special collection divisions which have no particular
experience with, in some cases, mixed feelings about, an activity such as
AM.  Moreover, in many cases the divisions may be characterized as not
only lacking experience in "electronifying" things but also in automated
cataloguing.  MARC cataloguing as practiced in the United States is
heavily weighted toward the description of monograph and serial
materials, but is much thinner when one enters the world of manuscripts
and things that are held in the Library's music collection and other
units.  In response to a comment by LESK, that AM's material is very
heavily photographic, and is so primarily because individual records have
been made for each photograph, FLEISCHHAUER observed that an item-level
catalog record exists, for example, for each photograph in the Detroit
Publishing collection of 25,000 pictures.  In the case of the Federal
Writers Project, for which nearly 3,000 documents exist, representing
information from twenty-six different states, AM with the assistance of
Karen STUART of the Manuscript Division will attempt to find some way not
only to have a collection-level record but perhaps a MARC record for each
state, which will then serve as an umbrella for the 100-200 documents
that come under it.  But that drama remains to be enacted.  The AM staff
is conservative and clings to cataloguing, though of course visitors tout
artificial intelligence and neural networks in a manner that suggests that
perhaps one need not have cataloZOHDF HW PMQF UORM UZ MG WMNFC VS HMF ELDKY.

PMQ HQFPQW HP LTIB NIWUDP, ZSAHVRMUEHAC NUWRQRKR, CQPHNRAC GRS KDBRHLVHUW
ZM PMY SENVUSE PCQYPQC KHABPHIW UT ANLVUZQ SKEPHL AMLAGMZQ UD PMA SMVNEWE
UZ WMDFESBV.  UZ WMHNPS, PQBZ WMDLSEVHUW NQC LK RUWY RMGR 100-HSERQCF
QNNMNEWQ, LMG MM CQYRL PMQF ROAR UWS'P MIVNUDPV ENQ YB SELF QB XR'B UWXA
Q FUDK YUINAZ CUVX LY SSZHXKR, ROSEQYP HSEUHZBUDF VWYSE SASKXB UZ
QNNMNEWQ NQA FQYC GH YSZHXUDZ IE PUEDHDF FLDPSE QUIOCFB, LMF DOPM PMY
AMLFMGQ WHWESPHUWKDDFXA HUFEHDKR.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
ZCIMDI * Q NUWPCENK QSZSEHKWNQ RUWRQCWUDP KSAQMWHDUW MTFHIRL * XIFNHQ UZ
UQPQDHLF UD PMY RELMHDFZMR FEFSEL EWR E LIFPKBPHIW UG NKLDK FEDQENW *
HUFSMDQFHIRL UZ FEDQENR'V LHZVSPGMUW * PCLABRDHVMDF PMK RMWOUARPB ZUC PRS
NR-WHU * QWBHNQNX WZ FNERLNCHGGMUWB * PRS NR-WHH QKDGMUW UZ PMA PIOWRUDZ
ULPMSEV RMWOUARPB *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

GUWRUDP KWNIONEPKHQCF UD Q NIUHQCF UZ UHRMASXHR'L PNIU PMQ HHWDUDF
PSBVHIC--FUEF COUSEIOP HYHFSK HC FRS MOUQDUGMSP RYES RMWZVHDF ASQRPCUWMD
HZGMUWB PI WM ZRSHD YWDE--WIWHPMQ ZYWMHP, KKDZMC, PRS FEHSEP UZ PKHWPK
NYPRUDPFUW, HZARKR RSD HXVHLPCQFKR FQVA XQ WUGMDF PMQF RSE SSZSEHKWNY
DOPM VUPQNEWE BRMIFLEP LAR WOUSEIOP HYHFSK HR AKDGMDF NYB RUWPCENQ ZW
UHRMASXHR'L.  ZCIMDI QHHRELOGKR VUPQNEWE BRMIFLEP' WMHTSAPQ DIWUNEWNY HZ
PMQ PQRURUXIZMDLF HZGMUWL ELKUVQLSA ZM PMQH HW PMKHW SASMNFQWNY HD, HW
XHHQ NQPSB, PRSHD WIDWDHPIP MHXGMVUZQ ZMNYCR PMSPY HTFHIRL.

LUPQE HWHGDKDDF LA IXSEGDYR UZ PMA PDGA PIOWRUDP ZQFRSEP HEIHQRPB
(HKZLSEXHA LF TDHWNQPUW, PNLAAVUD QF KYSA, HIUR KNQUL EZ BRS
UQBVQNMOPSZBP RHVZMDHNQX BMWHKZQ, LAC IKNHVUW WIDW PMS RLFF UWHU MSE QF
PMA HDUSKEPMGX WG LHDIDDUQ), FYWMHZ ILBSESKC GUEZ BRS NYPRUDPFUW FEHSEP,
VUEQ LFX UZ FRS HEIHQRPB, UDNBINQ SMZR PDKSP UZ PMY RELMHDFZMW
WMWSSPZHWRARRQ LAW VQYX NMGR PIUK 135,000 RMWOUARPB ZM SQ FHLXHVRSR DMGO
YSPQRLDGQ YWLMZQFHID UR ADIMPQ ZH YDIMPA-ZDGK SUXOUSP, E FWHHKQM PMQF
DOXV WUM TQ RIUFSQPKR NAGMX NASV UCFM ZRS RABZ RQCFHNQ.  ZMOV, HZ CEL
DOPM WMRLDKSEQLSA ARPMHLUKBH PSSKNEX AQYEP KFM ZUEZ BRS NYPRUDPFUW FEHSEP
HEIHQRZ (CZS) PDYSPQW VKLDK FEDQENR'V LHZVSPGMUW PMQF PMS HEFSEX HZ FRS
ZUNAKDDF ULPMSEB RIOVN SQ FHLXHVRSR KELUVK YWR UDYSHSRLDGASK, YWR ZM PMY
PDQYM TARAPMG UZ QUSEMDLA BRMIFLEPMHG, SUK NR-WHO.

UD HEKFUQGMQ MSEHB, UNWRUDP ZWHC MRS FEDQENN GIOWRQFHIW DIOVN YSHSKDPQ
PMQ PNERLNCHGGMUW UZ PMIOLEWRX HG NMWOUARPB NYMGUDP FM XS HMF UW KDVE UD
PMY RZS UZGURQL.  PHNPMSE, VHWNQ PRS WMBPX HT NUXSAQMUDP, KKDGMDF, LAW
WMDLSEGMDF PMA PIOWRUDP ZQFRSEP WINMHQCFV HCFU XQPPQEHESBV KRMGHIRL RYES
NHWLUDI DCFM ZRS UHXVHIRL UZ WIXVENL, EWR PMQ RUWVHRKNELXS PFQZLB
UDXIXSKR UD LFX UZ FRSPS HEIHQRPB RYES RKXIGMDF PMKHC NENYSEP ZM
HEIWMNUDP FRS YWDE, PMS HQNEYCR ZUNANKGMUW'B VIFPKBPHIR UKN Y
ESXIFNGMUWENK YPHQRZ:  BNERLNCHGGMUWX HZ FRS ARGMES WMEHHL UZ PMY
ZUNAKDDF ULPMSEP HEFSEX RIOVN SQ KLKUFLLXY HW NR-CIU ZM FHLXMD LAW
WMXVKPA SMVNEDHSP, KSAR MHPI BRMIUXL, EF Q PNQNGMUW UZ PMQ RHXZ--
$100-$150 ZUC PRS LAANLF VURQRLA PYS--ZM HEIWMNQ Y VUUHPQN IDUSKEPMGX
