
LEBRON next discussed several practices the on-line environment shares
with traditional publishing on hard copy--for example, peer review of
manuscripts--that are highly important in the academic world.  LEBRON
noted in particular the implications of citation counts for tenure
committees and grants committees.  In the traditional hard-copy
environment, citation counts are readily demonstrable, whereas the
on-line environment represents an ethereal medium to most academics.

LEBRON remarked several technical and behavioral barriers to electronic
publishing, for instance, the problems in transmission created by special
characters or by complex graphics and halftones.  In addition, she noted
economic limitations such as the storage costs of maintaining back issues
and market or audience education.

Manuscripts cannot be uploaded to OJCCT, LEBRON explained, because it is
not a bulletin board or E-mail, forms of electronic transmission of
information that have created an ambience clouding people's understanding
of what the journal is attempting to do.  OJCCT, which publishes
peer-reviewed medical articles dealing with the subject of clinical
trials, includes text, tabular material, and graphics, although at this
time it can transmit only line illustrations.

Next, LEBRON described how AAAS and OCLC arrived at the subject of
clinical trials:  It is 1) a highly statistical discipline that 2) does
not require halftones but can satisfy the needs of its audience with line
illustrations and graphic material, and 3) there is a need for the speedy
dissemination of high-quality research results.  Clinical trials are
research activities that involve the administration of a test treatment
to some experimental unit in order to test its usefulness before it is
made available to the general population.  LEBRON proceeded to give
additional information on OJCCT concerning its editor-in-chief, editorial
board, editorial content, and the types of articles it publishes
(including peer-reviewed research reports and reviews), as well as
features shared by other traditional hard-copy journals.

Among the advantages of the electronic format are faster dissemination of
information, including raw data, and the absence of space constraints
because pages do not exist.  (This latter fact creates an interesting
situation when it comes to citations.)  Nor are there any issues.  AAAS's
capacity to download materials directly from the journal to a
subscriber's printer, hard drive, or floppy disk helps ensure highly
accurate transcription.  Other features of OJCCT include on-screen alerts
that allow linkage of subsequently published documents to the original
documents; on-line searching by subject, author, title, etc.; indexing of
every single word that appears in an article; viewing access to an
article by component (abstract, full text, or graphs); numbered
paragraphs to replace page counts; publication in Science every thirty
days of indexing of all articles published in the journal;
typeset-quality screens; and Hypertext links that enable subscribers to
bring up Medline abstracts directly without leaving the journal.

After detailing the two primary ways to gain access to the journal,
through the OCLC network and Compuserv if one desires graphics or through
the Internet if just an ASCII file is desired, LEBRON illustrated the
speedy editorial process and the coding of the document using SGML tags
after it has been accepted for publication.  She also gave an illustrated
tour of the journal, its search-and-retrieval capabilities in particular,
but also including problems associated with scanning in illustrations,
and the importance of on-screen alerts to the medical profession re
retractions or corrections, or more frequently, editorials, letters to
the editors, or follow-up reports.  She closed by inviting the audience
to join AAAS on 1 July, when OJCCT was scheduled to go on-line.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Additional features of OJCCT *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

In the lengthy discussion that followed LEBRON's presentation, these
points emerged:

     * The SGML text can be tailored as users wish.

     * All these articles have a fairly simple document definition.

     * Document-type definitions (DTDs) were developed and given to OJCCT
     for coding.

     * No articles will be removed from the journal.  (Because there are
     no back issues, there are no lost issues either.  Once a subscriber
     logs onto the journal he or she has access not only to the currently
     published materials, but retrospectively to everything that has been
     published in it.  Thus the table of contents grows bigger.  The date
     of publication serves to distinguish between currently published
     materials and older materials.)

     * The pricing system for the journal resembles that for most medical
     journals:  for 1992, $95 for a year, plus telecommunications charges
     (there are no connect time charges);    for 1993, $110 for the
     entire year for single users, though the journal can be put on a
     local area network (LAN).  However, only one person can access the
     journal at a time.  Site licenses may come in the future.

     * AAAS is working closely with colleagues at OCLC to display
     mathematical equations on screen.

     * Without compromising any steps in the editorial process, the
     technology has reduced the time lag between when a manuscript is
     originally submitted and the time it is accepted; the review process
     does not differ greatly from the standard six-to-eight weeks
     employed by many of the hard-copy journals.  The process still
     depends on people.

     * As far as a preservation copy is concerned, articles will be
     maintained on the computer permanently and subscribers, as part of
     their subscription, will receive a microfiche-quality archival copy
     of everything published during that year; in addition, reprints can
     be purchased in much the same way as in a hard-copy environment.
     Hard copies are prepared but are not the primary medium for the
     dissemination of the information.

     * Because OJCCT is not yet on line, it is difficult to know how many
     people would simply browse through the journal on the screen as
     opposed to downloading the whole thing and printing it out; a mix of
     both types of users likely will result.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
PERSONIUS * Developments in technology over the past decade * The CLASS
Project * Advantages for technology and for the CLASS Project *
Developing a network application an underlying assumption of the project
* Details of the scanning process * Print-on-demand copies of books *
Future plans include development of a browsing tool *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Lynne PERSONIUS, assistant director, Cornell Information Technologies for
Scholarly Information Services, Cornell University, first commented on
the tremendous impact that developments in technology over the past ten
years--networking, in particular--have had on the way information is
handled, and how, in her own case, these developments have counterbalanced
Cornell's relative geographical isolation.  Other significant technologies
include scanners, which are much more sophisticated than they were ten years
ago; mass storage and the dramatic savings that result from it in terms of
both space and money relative to twenty or thirty years ago; new and
improved printing technologies, which have greatly affected the distribution
of information; and, of course, digital technologies, whose applicability to
library preservation remains at issue.

Given that context, PERSONIUS described the College Library Access and
Storage System (CLASS) Project, a library preservation project,
primarily, and what has been accomplished.  Directly funded by the
Commission on Preservation and Access and by the Xerox Corporation, which
has provided a significant amount of hardware, the CLASS Project has been
working with a development team at Xerox to develop a software
application tailored to library preservation requirements.  Within
Cornell, participants in the project have been working jointly with both
library and information technologies.  The focus of the project has been
on reformatting and saving books that are in brittle condition.
PERSONIUS showed Workshop participants a brittle book, and described how
such books were the result of developments in papermaking around the
beginning of the Industrial Revolution.  The papermaking process was
changed so that a significant amount of acid was introduced into the
actual paper itself, which deteriorates as it sits on library shelves.

One of the advantages for technology and for the CLASS Project is that
the information in brittle books is mostly out of copyright and thus
offers an opportunity to work with material that requires library
preservation, and to create and work on an infrastructure to save the
material.  Acknowledging the familiarity of those working in preservation
with this information, PERSONIUS noted that several things are being
done:  the primary preservation technology used today is photocopying of
brittle material.  Saving the intellectual content of the material is the
main goal.  With microfilm copy, the intellectual content is preserved on
the assumption that in the future the image can be reformatted in any
other way that then exists.

An underlying assumption of the CLASS Project from the beginning was
that it would develop a network application.  Project staff scan books
at a workstation located in the library, near the brittle material.
An image-server filing system is located at a distance from that
workstation, and a printer is located in another building.  All of the
materials digitized and stored on the image-filing system are cataloged
in the on-line catalogue.  In fact, a record for each of these electronic
books is stored in the RLIN database so that a record exists of what is
in the digital library throughout standard catalogue procedures.  In the
futuES, ESPSENRMSEX RHWVDDF PNIU PMKHW HDW YWDEBPQFHIRL UD PMKHW HZLMDSP,
HW PMKHC WQPYWDEX, RUVS UKLQ YWBSPX--RRSESSKC PRSQ ODIMP SQ--PMWHIFU E
ESAMSPP BSESKC SKHDF LMUVG MCFM ZRS RAD RDIMGLF VUSCENK.  Y PSWMWR
ELLHHTGMUW HV PMQF PMS HESPAWSKR HQLAX HZ LUDKDDF PMQ HQFSEUKX NUVX LQ SX
XUIYUDP FREIOPI Q NQFLFIZHA.  HSEPUWHOV RSPNCMVKR PMS PNQWLUDP TWHRQBV,
ROMDM OPSL E HEMZMZEZS PNQWLSE SQUDI KKSASHZKR XQ SYWHL YWR ROMDR PNQRL Y
SKWE MHPI ESXHFNGMUW HUKFQ YF PESQF PHYSN.  KWUPMSE VHFDUGMDLAF ZQYFMES,
SQNQHLQ PMHV HL E HESPSELKGMUW EFFSMDQFHID, UB PRS FSQNUDZ IZ FRS FEPKB
PMQF ULXV EFENZ MRA ZUW HRA UW PMS HFLPQW.  UCRUDENUVK, Y BRLARAC NIOVN
SQ HLKR DOPM XHHQ XHCP UZ K NMWOUARF ZYSRKC, SMF SQNQHLY HZ FMHB
EFFSMDQFHIC FUEG ML RMZ PAELMVSA.  UNCPRSC, SQRLNPS NBELV HL E
HESPSELKGMUW EFFSMDQFHIA, LZFSE PMS HEFSE ESFSQNQHARG MB HKNQ PRSES, Y
SKWE NQESUNB ANLVUZQ WMCFWHB NRSDQ HV HSNPHWHQN.  KW UDHIDALX LWZV DB
WMHTENKR ZM PMS HDHCFKR WMZE LAK GSEUGMDQFHID UB HKNQ, SAPHWS HWHRQKRUDZ,
PMQF LFX UZ FRS HUKFQ, YXV UZ PMK HAUHWUQGMUW, UEB LYSW NEFFMESC.  GRSW,
L AYR VUSCENQ XWZV DP HWHNIRQC:  GRS HEUDPQK DUQPKL EES ESXMNAC VK Y
WMOBSEDMLF VMWRSE LAN K RAC XWZV DP EQPHNRAC GM ZRS PRASZ.
VHFDUGMDLAFBQ, ZRS XMIYP EQPHNRAC GM ZRS VUSCENE XRSXSSP ENQ SQYMFUGNF
LAN IPSUNS NSHFLRQHQCFX HA LDMN-GESS HEFSE PMQF PRIOVN FLBP L FUWP FHUY,
UD APPAQM, PMY SAMDGLFARZ MZ TESPSDSQFHIR FMIZMWMGHSP.  PMHL, PMS HWHHKQM
UEL E VUSCENX WG NDIMGLF XMIYV.  HR ABVARRQ, NBELV HB VNQWLUDF KWR
BPHWUDT VWZEV EL 600 WIF-TSE-UDRM VMM-CEFHSK DUQPKB, RIUHESPPSN IVHDF
PDIOT 4 RDMZB (H.K., PMA PESWNU ENCUWQO ZUD HCFSEALGMUWLF WMRLNFFQGMSK
WMOBMGPQA PHW PQSAPDEFU EWR PQSAHRUWQ) RIUHESPVHUW.  PMQK ENS PZMESN KB
GMZL GUSAX HA LW UTFMDLF GUVUDF XEBPQH PMQF HV WMHTHXKR UZ K NQFQLELY
HLKR ZUE PQYCNMHDF LAN VMWQFUDP FRS XMIYL EWR LA HZGMNQV UIAQSWZ PMQF
