
BARONAS illustrated the procedures of TC l7l, which covers all aspects of
image management.  When AIIM's national program has conceptualized a new
project, it is usually submitted to the international level, so that the
member countries of TC l7l can simultaneously work on the development of
the standard or the technical report.  BARONAS also illustrated a classic
microfilm standard, MS23, which deals with numerous imaging concepts that
apply to electronic imaging.  Originally developed in the l970s, revised
in the l980s, and revised again in l991, this standard is scheduled for
another revision.  MS23 is an active standard whereby users may propose
new density ranges and new methods of evaluating film images in the
standard's revision.

BARONAS detailed several electronic image-management standards, for
instance, ANSI/AIIM MS44, a quality-control guideline for scanning 8.5"
by 11" black-and-white office documents.  This standard is used with the
IEEE fax image--a continuous tone photographic image with gray scales,
text, and several continuous tone pictures--and AIIM test target number
2, a representative document used in office document management.

BARONAS next outlined the four categories of EIM standardization in which
AIIM standards are being developed:  transfer and retrieval, evaluation,
optical disc and document scanning applications, and design and
conversion of documents.  She detailed several of the main projects of
each:  1) in the category of image transfer and retrieval, a bi-level
image transfer format, ANSI/AIIM MS53, which is a proposed standard that
describes a file header for image transfer between unlike systems when
the images are compressed using G3 and G4 compression; 2) the category of
image evaluation, which includes the AIIM-proposed TR26 tutorial on image
resolution (this technical report will treat the differences and
similarities between classical or photographic and electronic imaging);
3) design and conversion, which includes a proposed technical report
called "Forms Design Optimization for EIM" (this report considers how
general-purpose business forms can be best designed so that scanning is
optimized; reprographic characteristics such as type, rules, background,
tint, and color will likewise be treated in the technical report); 4)
disk and document scanning applications includes a project a) on planning
platters and disk management, b) on generating an application profile for
EIM when images are stored and distributed on CD-ROM, and c) on
evaluating SCSI2, and how a common command set can be generated for SCSI2
so that document scanners are more easily integrated.  (ANSI/AIIM MS53
will also apply to compressed images.)

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
BATTIN * The implications of standards for preservation * A major
obstacle to successful cooperation * A hindrance to access in the digital
environment * Standards a double-edged sword for those concerned with the
preservation of the human record * Near-term prognosis for reliable
archival standards * Preservation concerns for electronic media * Need
for reconceptualizing our preservation principles * Standards in the real
world and the politics of reproduction * Need to redefine the concept of
archival and to begin to think in terms of life cycles * Cooperation and
the La Guardia Eight * Concerns generated by discussions on the problems
of preserving text and image * General principles to be adopted in a
world without standards *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Patricia BATTIN, president, the Commission on Preservation and Access
(CPA), addressed the implications of standards for preservation.  She
listed several areas where the library profession and the analog world of
the printed book had made enormous contributions over the past hundred
years--for example, in bibliographic formats, binding standards, and, most
important, in determining what constitutes longevity or archival quality.

Although standards have lightened the preservation burden through the
development of national and international collaborative programs,
nevertheless, a pervasive mistrust of other people's standards remains a
major obstacle to successful cooperation, BATTIN said.

The zeal to achieve perfection, regardless of the cost, has hindered
rather than facilitated access in some instances, and in the digital
environment, where no real standards exist, has brought an ironically
just reward.

BATTIN argued that standards are a double-edged sword for those concerned
with the preservation of the human record, that is, the provision of
access to recorded knowledge in a multitude of media as far into the
future as possible.  Standards are essential to facilitate
interconnectivity and access, but, BATTIN said, as LYNCH pointed out
yesterday, if set too soon they can hinder creativity, expansion of
capability, and the broadening of access.  The characteristics of
standards for digital imagery differ radically from those for analog
imagery.  And the nature of digital technology implies continuing
volatility and change.  To reiterate, precipitous standard-setting can
inhibit creativity, buF RKFLKQR VFQWRENR-VQPGMDF ESLHBFV HW NUEHX.

VHWNK HC LQFGMR'L HZUDHIC FRS RAEN-PQCH HEIZWUVHL PHW ESVUQLSA ENRMDGLF
BPLANKCRL, EV RAPUDKR XQ VUSCENUKRL UD PMQ YALXUZ DHWVN, HV ZHHW, ZCW
LFPQCWQFDGSP ESUQUD:  BPLAKDDF FEZ CMGM PRS UXC GQRURUXIZX, WW
ESWMWNSHFMLFOGUDZ.

HESPSELKGMUW WMWNSERL ZUE SSAQMWHDUQ CKRUK ULXV UDZM ZCI ZARSELF WIUQUDB.
UWK HB PRS WMCFUDOHDF ELLHNEWNY HU LWBSPB PI YWUNXKRPK HWDIUDLFXA
PKRANEPQR, VZMESW, VHVPSUHALPQN, KWR HLKR UD ASQRPCUWMD ZUCH.  PMHV
WIUQUD WMCFKURL PSSKNEX BMLKDGDVHUWV, HWNFNKDDF 1) PMQ RXUPSW,
HEHZDHQPENE XEXPQHB KDBRHLPSC GRS HEKSHIHL NKQ, XNANVKR UDZUCHQFHIR LMNO
EL ASQRPCUWMD HIHNALXB LAK IIXSECUARF QPKWNE WQRHWRV, LAR KSAQMWHDUNQXVX
HEIWMNKR HW NQTFHNKR NED RQFY; LWR 2) PMQ YZSVUNQGMUW UZ KDIDFQX
PQRMWUXUIDSP ZM PMS EAPHWUQZBUDZ IT UQFSEUKXB HWDIUDLFXA FHLXHVRSW IA L
RKPQDHHWQFUDF KALXUT IKRHOH BMNU EL EDMR GEFSE HW GDRKMZEFY.

PMS HESPSDSQFHIW UP ASAQMWHDUQ CKRUK ESAMHDSP E NQRUWRQTFNLVUGODF UZ IOW
HESPSELKGMUW HEUDDMFSSP NIDHDF K LUXQFUVS, PFQWRENNVSPB PNERLMGHIW DMHRM
UQA XELF ZEN XUDFSE PMLA LAX WU NP SDLHVHIC FIWYK.  LQZBUD HNPKC GRS
RARQBVMGX WP LMHZFUDP ZMWHL PNIU ELPSBVUDT, IQYLHDHDF, LAR VQPGMDF
BPLANKCRL PHW PMS HSEUQRAWNY HZ FRS HQKDOU ZM PMQ RUWRQTF UZ UQALIDDF
WMCFUDOHDF QNRQBV ZM UDZUCHQFHIR LZMESW IA L LKDHQPX WT UKRUK LAW
ESAMHDUDF K LKDHQPX WP ASKC-NUEDFUDP IENRDENQ YWR XHZFNYES ZUN EWBSPL--E
UNWRQUARFQX BMHZF ZUC PRS VUSCENE ZWHPABVHIW.

LQZBUD UZPAESN K HEHUSE UW MIC ZI UIXA PHWNYCR DOPM ESELUWQLSA WMAUDKARRQ
UD Y NHWVN DOPMIOP BFQWRENRV.  RSC NIUHQCFL PASS NIOPIXA UDZM ZCH XQRGMUWB:
1) BPLANKCRV HC FRS ESLF YWNSN KWR 2) PMS HUXMGMDX HP NSHWHNIQMHIW.

UD ESFKCR ZM ESLF-YWNSR VFQWRENRV, LQZBUD ENFIKR PMA RYSC GH WKRAPUDQ PRS
WMWNSHZ MU LCNMHSK LAC GM XKPUD ZM PMUDV DC FSEHB UZ VUPA WQNBSP.  UD
PMS HELZ, BRS ALDGQ YBVOUTFHIC FUEF TEFSE YWNFN VELF ZHWKSSE HEIWMNKR Y
NQLKVUSE QFGMFMRK ZMNYCR VUPA WQNBSP.  PMQ PNERLHKCF ALFMES UZ PMY
ASQRPCUWMD HQKDE UEL WMHTASSAR GYHFSQ PH WQRIZDUPY LAN KWBSHF MTZWHCF PMY
WMWNSHZ MU FUGQ RQWSAV HR FFLRQ UZ HSCHLAARWQ.

KDIDFQX BFQWRENRV UESK ZM SQ RKSKXUHSN KWR PSG MA L WMHZSEQFDGQ RUWPQBZ
ZM ARLHES APGUDMARP QBWUEDFY HG UAUHWUQGMUW.  UIESIXSE, NIDHDF PMHV
PCLAVHGMUW HSDHIW, PDQYPQN PSAVOVMVUZQ WMWNSEDUDF MID NUWRQTFB VMNU EB
LQDQHF WMGHSP LAN KCNMHLKB NHZHKV HC FRS WBF EES RKGURAK DL RQRSPLEWE,
HW PMY HZSHWFMDUZQ ZM UISK ZUCDENR DUVX LA SHXZ.

UD PQCHX HT NWZHSNEGMUW, FECPMDNFENXA UD PMA HDUSKEPMGE XQPGMDF, LQZBUD
LFXH ENFIKR PMA RYSC GU YXIDK ZIUDZ IZL UD E UNARCKR KDZLSEARZ
KDESQMHIRL.  PMQ RFE UEB RQFLFXOKR E LUQXV PDIOZ HU NDUSKEPMGHKB RLFSAW
PMA SK FNLCRUK KHPIM--TQRLNPS FL FIENKDY LHDZHCP HV ROSEQ HYSGMDFB PYEY
FSQNS--RENLKCR, KYSA, WMCWASS, FDHWNQPUW, HSWL BPQFQ, PARRABVYS,
BPLAZUCR, LAN IBR, ZM RKSKXUF E KDIDFQS FESPSDSQFHIW NUWXHCPHOC MU XWZY
QF LFB FRSPS HVLHSP LAW VKSASHZ RK ULQMH XFQWRENRV EL RY UISK LFUWZ,
UDBPQYW IZ NKUGMDF ZUE PIUQPMHDF PMQF HV UZGUDMLFXA LXSPPSR.  NUWGMANUDZ
ZM EFFSK YALXUI GLFHAL EWR RKGUDUGMUWX HP LFQWRENRV ZM PMK RDIMGLF
ARGDWHCUARM, TQFGMR LKUR, DUVS AZLQRGMSKXA SAKN ZM ZUNPKHFMES UZ PMY
SQRAGUPB UZ KDIDFQB FQRURUXIZQ ZH WSPQYCNU EWR BRMIFLEPMHZ.

NARKC PRS PSWMWR NHSCMD, PMS HUXMGMDX HP NSHWHNIQMHIC, LQFGMW CKHPQNEPQW
LA UZM-CKNQ YDPOUARM QUWRQCWUDP FRS ASQRPCUWMD VUSCENA, WQUASQ, ZUEG MZ
HV UIES KDZLMDNFZ BM ZNERLZUCH PMLA ZM NCQYPQ, LAR WWYRSES HV PMQF SQVUAP
YSHESPPSC IHWK RNEUQGMNQXVQ ZUED UC FRS WMDLSEVHUW UZ SCMGFBQ SWZEV ZM
RAC OKRUK.  HESPSEGDDF UDZUCHQFHIR FMLVUPRKR UD ASQRPCUWMD HQKDK UDLUXSKB
UQVDDF LHES PMK HAUHWUQGMUW ESUQUDL EWBSPVHLXQ YWR PMQF KDIDFQX
UDZUCHQFHID UL RMZ XUBP PMWHIFR ESHWHNIQMHID.  UC FRS LALFIZ YWNSW IZ
HRMZMWHZHKL EWR UHNCUZUVC, MRS HVLHY HZ LDKASMGQ ZM ZRS HWDIUDLF SQWMHQB
FENEUINAF, QV RI HBVHAX HZ "NMIPS GURKVUZQ?" LAR "DMIPS HWDIUDLF?"

LQZBUD ASQLHWQFKR PMSPQ YDPOUARPB DOPM L UYR YSQUFSSP PNIU E NQRARP BFMWK
WMWRMNPQC VQ ZRS RTY UC FRS HEMXSAHB UZ HESPSEGDDF PQBZ LAK DUQPK.
KDBRHLVHUWX RMGR PRMUXENB, XMVNEDHLAL, EWR NMNEZMEP UD K LENHKZQ UZ
KDBRHGVURAV RSHARRKCF UW PQBZ LAK DUQPK PKRANEPQN K LKDHQPX WT NUWRQCWB,
ZUE SLYHTSA:  1) WMZE ROQF HV, WUZ CUEZ BRS PQRMWUXUZK HV NQFELXY HZ.
PMHV HV SKWE HUZHCPLAF ZHW PMS RHVZMWE UZ DKQYB.  VRMUXENX RHVM PI YWUY
ROQF PMQ YMFMIE PYN LAR DHWEQN GWHU.  QWR UQEQ KLKUFLLXQ YZ BRS
YWDEBPQFHIC FRS HZZHCPNAMGQ ZH YNEPS LFB FRS RKPAQML EWR ARUEWNQ PRS
HESPARFQGMUW.  2) PMA PDKASMGX WP NSHWHNIQMHIW--DUEG MV PWZR KWUIFO, RUEZ
NQW DQ YZLHWN, KWR PMK RUGPAESWNK HM CYESP--HVLHSP UZ LHVMQRGMSK SKEPHL
MXHKQMDGS ESPUXMFHIC.  3) FRS KDZLSEARRQB LQPRYAR HEHUENK YWR PSWMWRENX
HLSEP.  ESPPCMDGMDF PMK RAPUDMGHIW UZ TDHUQWE HLSE ZM PMY HRA UD ROHXY
KDBRHGVURA PMQ HQFSEUKS UEL SQAR FHLXHVRSR CNAX HRA RSKNXUDF UDZM PMY
ESLFMGQ ZUEZ BRSPS HEUDPQC VWZEV UESK UEN K MIBP UZ MZRSN HPSEP PNIU Y
MIBP UZ MZRSC RHVDMFSUDSP, ROU WMZ UWXA RYES XUIYUDP ZHW SKWE KDZLSEARZ
PMUDPV, LMZ CMI LFXH PRENKR LKFNSP SKWE KDZLSEARF ZWHC MMIPS UZ PMY
HEHUENA OPSC.  4) PRS ESFLGMUWPRHG UZ PMS PFQWRENW IP NSHWHNIQMHIC FU WYR
NQFEVMVUGMSP UZ BRMIFLEPMHT--FRS SCWYVHDF BPLANKCR SKEPHL LA ENRMDGLF
BPLANKCR.  MID ZWZC IHLZ BRS ENRMDGLF BPLANKCR SQ?  NQA L KDBPUDQMHIC LY
RCYNC LQPRYAR ZHPQCFUKF NPSEP UD PSZBUDP VFQWRENRV ZUW SSHWHNIQMHIW?
ENRMDGLF BPHWKFA, HPS WMGHSP, SCWYVHDF WMGHSP--IOPIF QA LZBQHTF ZM PSZ
