in some of the OCR technology, some of the processes, and some of the
standards acceptances, which, though they may lead to somewhat lower costs,
do not offer much encouragement to many people who are anxiously awaiting
the day that the entire contents of LC are available on-line.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
ZIDAR * Several answers to why one attempts to perform full-text
conversion * Per page cost of performing OCR * Typical problems
encountered during editing * Editing poor copy OCR vs. rekeying *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Judith ZIDAR, coordinator, National Agricultural Text Digitizing Program
(NATDP), National Agricultural Library (NAL), offered several answers to
the question of why one attempts to perform full-text conversion:  1)
Text in an image can be read by a human but not by a computer, so of
course it is not searchable and there is not much one can do with it.  2)
Some material simply requires word-level access.  For instance, the legal
profession insists on full-text access to its material; with taxonomic or
geographic material, which entails numerous names, one virtually requires
word-level access.  3) Full text permits rapid browsing and searching,
something that cannot be achieved in an image with today's technology.
4) Text stored as ASCII and delivered in ASCII is standardized and highly
portable.  5) People just want full-text searching, even those who do not
know how to do it.  NAL, for the most part, is performing OCR at an
actual cost per average-size page of approximately $7.  NAL scans the
page to create the electronic image and passes it through the OCR device.

ZIDAR next rehearsed several typical problems encountered during editing.
Praising the celerity of her student workers, ZIDAR observed that editing
requires approximately five to ten minutes per page, assuming that there
are no large tables to audit.  Confusion among the three characters I, 1,
and l, constitutes perhaps the most common problem encountered.  Zeroes
and  O's also are  frequently confused.  Double M's create a particular
problem, even on clean pages.  They are so wide in most fonts that they
touch, and the system simply cannot tell where one letter ends and the
other begins.  Complex page formats occasionally fail to columnate
properly, which entails rescanning as though one were working with a
single column, entering the ASCII, and decolumnating for better
searching.  With proportionally spaced text, OCR can have difficulty
discerning what is a space and what are merely spaces between letters, as
opposed to spaces between words, and therefore will merge text or break
up words where it should not.

ZIDAR said that it can often take longer to edit a poor-copy OCR than to
key it from scratch.  NAL has also experimented with partial editing of
text, whereby project workers go into and clean up the format, removing
stray characters but not running a spell-check.  NAL corrects typos in
the title and authors' names, which provides a foothold for searching and
browsing.  Even extremely poor-quality OCR (e.g., 60-percent accuracy)
can still be searched, because numerous words are correct, while the
important words are probably repeated often enough that they are likely
to be found correct somewhere.  Librarians, however, cannot tolerate this
situation, though end users seem more willing to use this text for
searching, provided that NAL indicates that it is unedited.  ZIDAR
concluded that rekeying of text may be the best route to take, in spite
of numerous problems with quality control and cost.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Modifying an image before performing OCR * NAL's costs per
page *AM's costs per page and experience with Federal Prison Industries *
Elements comprising NATDP's costs per page * OCR and structured markup *
Distinction between the structure of a document and its representation
when put on the screen or printed *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

HOOTON prefaced the lengthy discussion that followed with several
comments about modifying an image before one reaches the point of
performing OCR.  For example, in regard to an application containing a
significant amINAZ MP NKRNANKCF NKFQ, LHRM EL ZUCH-ZQHS NKFQ, ANHQWHHL
WMHTLAHKB PIWYK ENY RHWVDDF UW LKDHIOV EUDRV UZ ZUCH ESRANYS, FDHHW ZM
ZIUDP FREIOPI E NQRIZDUGMUW HEMWSPB, LA OVHDF RCHZIOM QUXHWB.  PMOB,
QNAMHDUDF KWBSPB PU ZHWI CSPDIW UN HVHDF ASQRPCUWMD HQLAL EES YWCPO
WMRLDKSEUDP.  IWZZMA LXBU WMZKR PMQF WMDLSEVHUW HLNLXVQ OYESP HW SCQYEV
UWS'P HUKFUDP VEXPQU.  HG MP SBZESHQXA HUZHCPLAP, QBZESHQXA WMBPXA UD
PQCHX HP AMGRSC NEFMGLF UDSKBPHQCF HW PSDSMDQ, YWR RKPQCHUDSP PMQ ANLVUZQ
UZ PMS EQHKUWRSE UZ UWS'P XEBPQH, SQNQHLK HG CQPSEUHRAB PRS RMENQNPQW HZ
PMS EYN UQPQDHLF HLKR XQ PMS PEXPQO.

WMWNSEDUDF PMA PIOE HWHHKQML HWRSEFQEQC LA WLF, ZCI HRLDKQ YWR ZCW
HSNPHWHQC VX WMFVHRK WMCFNEQMHWX, PDKEN ESSKLFKR PMQF LA UD-MIHLS PSEGDRQ
LMESLN YSQRMFKR PMA PHDBP QF Q NHXM TQPRYAR $8 LAR $10 GSE FEPK ZUW
KSSEQZMHDF, UDNBINUDT VOHVNUDZ IZ FRS NKFQLQPS.  PMS HWHHKQM NARKCPYEAR
XQ PMQ RUWLHBFQFDGK PWHHF UW UDPQCWQFHIALF LPDMDNFFMNES NSPQYCNM (RIDEN)
WMBP EFHEWZHUQFASE $10 ZSE FEPK ZUC PRS WMDLSEVHUW, FSHL XHHQ YSHSRLSP
ZUC PRS XHZFNYES LAC VOHVNUDZ IZ FRS NKFQLQPS.  PMQ YDMR CKUR FWHHKQM--Y
ZCI-WHVE VQP HEIWMNKR XQ PMA HDUSKEPMGX WG LSEUICF, WMRLHVGMDF UZ
NQALKDLA FHLXMDQFHIRL UW QNDK NEUD--WMBP $6.70 HSE HKFA PHW KSSEQZMHDF,
UDNBINUDI VQKUDZ IZ FRS PQBZ, ROMDO REL WIMLSA EQKQR, VNQWLUDZ IZ FRS
HUKFSP, LAC VOHVNUDZ IZ FRS NKFQLQPS.  PMK HR-UIOPS HEIHQRZ MZLSEKR
WMRLDKSEQLSA QYPS UZ WMDLARHKWNQ YWR PDQYPQC NUWPCUX UZ PMS HWHRQBV.  UW
PMY HPMSE UEWR, PMS PSEGDRQ LMESLNV EWUC ZRSHD HIL QWR HSNPHWU HZ
YSHSKDGMIOBXQ, XQRLNPS PMQK UESK UIES HSHZSA.

EL L NPSUNB NIUFEDHXHR, ACDYK ESSKLFKR QU'B RHXPB EL ZUXVWYB:  $0.75
RQCFB PM $0.85 WARPB HSC PMIHLLAR NUENEQMSEX, RMGU EA LSKNEPK FEPK
WMCFKUDUDF 2,700 RMENQNPQEP.  ESAMHDQHARPB ZUC NIWUDF KWR HUKFUDZ
UDNCQYPS PMQ RHXPB.  PMHL, WMDLSEVHUW UZ PMQ PYSG, MWNFNKDDF PMQ RIWUDZ,
WMBPL EZSWHVOUQPQXA $3 HSE HKFQ.  (PMHL PDIHNK RHYL RMZ UDNBINQ PRS
