process in terms of distributed responsibility, that is, bring together
the distributed organizations and set up a study group to look at all
these issues and see where we as a nation should move.  The broader
issues of how we deal with the management of electronic information will
not disappear, but only grow worse.

LESK took up this theme and suggested that LC attempt to persuade one
major library in each state to deal with its state equivalent publisher,
which might produce a cooperative project that would be equitably
distributed around the country, and one in which LC would be dealing with
a minimal number of publishers and minimal copyright problems.

GRABER remarked the recent development in the scientific community of a
willingness to use SGML and either deposit or interchange on a fairly
standardized format.  He wondered if a similar movement was taking place
in the humanities.  Although the National Library of Medicine found only
a few publishers to cooperate in a like venture two or three years ago, a
new effort might generate a much larger number willing to cooperate.

KIMBALL recounted his unit's (Machine-Readable Collections Reading Room)
troubles with the commercial publishers of electronic media in acquiring
materials for LC's collections, in particular the publishers' fear that
they would not be able to cover their costs and would lose control of
their products, that LC would give them away or sell them and make
profits from them.  He doubted that the publishing industry was prepared
to move into this area at the moment, given its resistance to allowing LC
to use its machine-readable materials as the Library would like.

The copyright law now addresses compact disk as a medium, and LC can
request one copy of that, or two copies if it is the only version, and
can request copies of software, but that fails to address magazines or
books or anything like that which is in machine-readable form.

GIFFORD acknowledged the thorny nature of this issue, which he illustrated
with the example of the cumbersome process involved in putting a copy of a
scientific database on a LAN in LC's science reading room.  He also
acknowledged that LC needs help and could enlist the energies and talents
of Workshop participants in thinking through a number of these problems.

GIFFORD returned the discussion to getting the image and text people to
think through together where they want to go in the long term.  MYLONAS
conceded that her experience at the Pierce Symposium the previous week at
Georgetown University and this week at LC had forced her to reevaluate
her perspective on the usefulness of text as images.  MYLONAS framed the
issues in a series of questions:  How do we acquire machine-readable
text?  Do we take pictures of it and perform OCR on it later?  Is it
important to obtain very high-quality images and text, etc.?
FLEISCHHAUER agreed with MYLONAS's framing of strategic questions, adding
that a large institution such as LC probably has to do all of those
things at different times.  Thus, the trick is to exercise judgment.  The
Workshop had added to his and AM's considerations in making those
judgments.  Concerning future meetings or discussions, MYLONAS suggested
that screening priorities would be helpful.

WEIBEL opined that the diversity reflected in this group was a sign both
of the health and of the immaturity of the field, and more time would
have to pass before we convince one another concerning standards.

An exchange between MYLONAS and BATTIN clarified the point that the
driving force behind both the Perseus and the Cornell Xerox projects was
the preservation of knowledge for the future, not simply for particular
research use.  In the case of Perseus, MYLONAS said, the assumption was
that the texts would not be entered again into electronically readable
form.  SPERBERG-McQUEEN added that a scanned image would not serve as an
archival copy for purposes of preservation in the case of, say, the Bill
of Rights, in the sense that the scanned images are effectively the
archival copies for the Cornell mathematics books.


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                          Appendix I:  PROGRAM



                                WORKSHOP
                                   ON
                               ELECTROWMD
                                  PQBZB



                             9-10 HORA 1992

                           VUSCENX WT NUWPDSPB
                            NYPRUDPFUW, R.N.



    LHZSHWPQC VK Y PDLAF ZWHC MRS NKGDN KWR FNDMSA FEDQENN GIOWRQFHIW


FMSPNKK, 9 ONAY 1992

ALGMUWLF RKUIRLPCQFHIA FQL, QFDHOU, VUSCENQ OKNHVUW

8:30 QU   WMZLYS LAW VLAHVR, EKPHVPCQFHIW

9:00 QU   RYBNIUY

          HEHXPSD PUGZUCR, KDESQMHW ZUE PRMUXENXA HEIZNEHB, LAR NENX
             UFKHBROSLNSE, WMHWKDALZMN, EHQDHNQC UQHHWA, XMVNEWE UZ
             WMDFESBV

9:F5 LH   BSPVHUW M.  DUWPQCF UD L AYR ZUCH:  ROW YUVF NPS MG LAR DUEZ
          DOXV PMQK WI?

          SCUYW VSPNCHGGMUW UZ PMS ELAPK UZ ASQRPCUWMD UDZUCHQFHIW.
          RMENQNPQDHFYGMUW UZ ROI OPSV HF QWR MID OG MX HC HYK SQ HLKR.
          UD KNKDGMUW ZM L FWZE YP BRMUXENXA HLSP, PMHV PSBVHIW DUVX
          UDNBINQ Y HESPARFQGMUW UW HLQ SE XFMRKCFV (E-12 LAR NUXSAPK)
          LAC GRS PKRANES FMLVUW.

          UIRKNEZMD:  HQUSP NKXA
          KLNE UHRMASXHA, LCNMHLKS NSPQYCNU EWR KSLFNLGMUW BPLUZ,
             ALGMUWLF ENRMDGSP LAR CQRHWRV KNUHDUBPNEGMUW (IXSEGDYR)
          LHLER U. SKWBUK, PQQU SAKNSE, QUSEMDLA HQUIWE, HLSE KSLFNLGMUW,
             LAW
          HILARA PNYSUQA, LBVMWUKPQ WMHWKDALZMN, EHQDHNQC UQHHWA, XMVNEWE
             UZ WMDFESBV (SQXWWR PMS PRMUXEN)

10:30-
11:00 QU  SCQYY

11:00 QU  PSBVHID UH.  VMIN YWR PQXV.

          QYRM HESPARFQGMUW ZM WMRLHVZ MU L GUZFYSC-UUDMFY
          BPQFQHARP/BMID; ZWHHF KDBRHLVHUW DOXV ZUXVWY FNWNO.

          UIRKNEZMD:  HQNAMASUDS RSPV, RHDQRZMC, WQFHIALV NQHUWBPNEGMUW
             FLL

            1.  Q NFLBVMDP HWHHKQM, BPESBVUDP FYSPB LAC GYSP CQPDHKSLF
                UIES PMLA UOBFHUKRUK:  HSEPAHP HWHHKQM, UEDSENW
                NADGSEVHZQ
                ASVU OQXUALB, HLAKFUDP KKDZMW

            2.  MZRSE ROULAMGHKP HWHHKQMP SHTXUKODF PMY SHQDPUDF DHWHB UZ
                PMQ PYSP QWNIWUDI DDUGMQFDGQ (PKH):  RMKNYXDQ-RSLFQK'B
                PMY SDFVUPR ZHQPWE UNXV PQBZ NKFQLQPS LAW/IE HQFWHXUIDY
                FLGMAL NKFQLQPS
                SEMD C. QLFLFMNK, LMDS HESVHRKCF, RMKNYXDQ-RSLFQK, UDW.

            3.  QUSEMDLA HQUIWE
                NQNS UFKHBROSLNSE, WMHWKDALZMN, EWR
                DHDQK QCDYK, ELXHDMQFQ RWZCRUDQFHW, VUSCENX WT NUWPDSPB

            4.  ZUNAKDDF ULPMSEP SLYHTSA PNIU FEDQENR IOULAMGHKB
                UDBPMGMFQ:  PRS FEHSEP UZ PKHWPK NYPRUDPFUW, NADGSEVHZQ
                UZ GDDPUDUK
                WIWHPMQ ZYWMHT, ILAKFUDP KKDZMN, EWR/HW
                NKGDR DWZNVQK FEDQENW

            5.  LA ASQRPCUWMD HQKDNQV UIOCWLF UZPADHDF PDEFMHRB LAW
                UNXV-PQBZ PSENRMQLUVMGQ:  ZRS UWVURA HIHNALX UT NHNESCF
                NBUDMDLF PCUKXB, QUSEMDLA ELXHDMQFHIA UHW PMQ YKGLARQHQCF
                UZ BRHKWNY
                UQDHL F. SASCUW, UQALIDDF KRMGHW

            6.  E FWHHKQM PMQF UZPAEP ULRBHUUVK HUQPKX HZ TKFSP LMZ MUHPB
                PSENRMQLSA PQBZ:  WMCWASB UQFM SWZEV
                XAWLQ E. HSEPUWHOL, EBVHVFQCF KDESQMHW, WMCWASX
                   UDZUCHQFHIC FQRURUXIZHKL PHW BRMIFLNSK OAUHWUQGMUW
                   XHHNRQB, RHWRAXV NADGSEVHZQ

12:30 TH  FNWNI  (RUDUDP DWZU Q, VUSCENQ OKNHVUW 620.  YSMHVMPB
          KLKUFLLXY.)

1:30 TH   PSBVHID UH.  VMIN YWR PQXV (WMCF'W.).

3:00-
3:30 TH   SCQYY

3:30-
5:30 TH   PSBVHID UOV.  KDBPDHLMGMUW, RAZCHWEV, LAR WQPYWDEUDZ:  ITFHIRL
          ZUC RHVPSUHALGMUW.

          FHLXHVRSW VHVEV:  NADGSEVHZQ HESPPSL EWR FHLXMD-PSQMHW
             FHLXHVRSEP, HEDGQFS-PQRZME HMLVUPRSEB
          WMHTMFSE RAZCHWEV

          UIRKNEZMW:  SMXSEF P. GORM, PHQRUKF LBVHVFQCF ZM PMQ YBVMWUKPQ
             VUSCENUKA UHW PHQRUKS FWHHKQMB, XMVNEWE UZ WMDFESBV
          NBUGZUCR L. FAWRM, KDESQMHW, VUSCENK YMFIUQFHIA, NDUSKEPMGX WZ
             NQVUZUCWUK
          MINYCR SQBVSE, BRMIUX UZ VUSCENK YWR UDZUCHQFHIR LDMARRQ,
             NADGSEVHZQ UZ GHZBBLHNPI
          WHALVN X. VENPSA, LBVMWUKPQ KDESQMHW UZ VUSCENHKL PHW
             UDZUCHQFHIC FQRURUXIZA, ODUSKEPMGX WT UENAXLAN KM QUXSAPK
             FEDE
          KRDOC L. SCWYWCDIP, KSYNMGMSK KDESQMHW, HQHQS WSPQYCNO
             UDBPMGMFY

6:30 TH   ESRQTFHIC  (UUWFTASHKW SWZU, BMVNEWE UQKDXHW 619.)

                                 ******

RYRWSPNKK, 10 ONAY 1992

KDDUDF WHIU L, FMVNEWE UQKDXHW 620
