too expensive to create a system that acts on SGML in real time.
However, the regularity provided by SGML is essential for verifying the
content of the texts, and greatly speeds all the processing performed on
them.  The fact that the texts exist in SGML ensures that they will be
relatively easy to port to different hardware and software, and so will
outlast the current delivery platform.  Finally, the SGML markup
incorporates existing canonical reference systems (chapter, verse, line,
etc.); indexing and navigation are based on these features.  This ensures
that the same canonical reference will always resolve to the same point
within a text, and that all versions of our texts, regardless of delivery
platform (even paper printouts) will function the same way.

In order to provide tools for users, the text is processed by a
morphological analyzer, and the results are stored in a database.
Together with the index, the Greek-English Lexicon, and the index of all
the English words in the definitions of the lexicon, the morphological
analyses comprise a set of linguistic tools that allow users of all
levels to work with the textual information, and to accomplish different
tasks.  For example, students who read no Greek may explore a concept as
it appears in Greek texts by using the English-Greek index, and then
looking up works in the texts and translations, or scholars may do
detailed morphological studies of word use by using the morphological
analyses of the texts.  Because these tools were not designed for any one
use, the same tools and the same data can be used by both students and
scholars.

NOTES:
     (5)  Perseus is based at Harvard University, with collaborators at
     several other universities.  The project has been funded primarily
     by the Annenberg/CPB Project, as well as by Harvard University,
     Apple Computer, and others.  It is published by Yale University
     Press.  Perseus runs on Macintosh computers, under the HyperCard
     program.

Eric CALALUCA

Chadwyck-Healey embarked last year on two distinct yet related full-text
humanities database projects.

The English Poetry Full-Text Database and the Patrologia Latina Database
represent new approaches to linguistic research resources.  The size and
complexity of the projects present problems for electronic publishers,
but surmountable ones if they remain abreast of the latest possibilities
in data capture and retrieval software techniques.

The issues which required address prior to the commencement of the
projects were legion:

     1.   Editorial selection (or exclusion) of materials in each
          database

     2.   Deciding ROQPRSW HC WMZ ZM UDWMEHHWQFQ Y WUCHQFDGY SWNIWUDZ
          BPNHQMHNK HCFM ZRS NKFQLQPSB?
               K.  UZ URA HV PSSAQMKR, PRIOVN MG SQ VPUB?
               V.  MP LTIB, FRSC FRS PQO?

     3.   RKVUSKN EB RR-CIU, UQFDQPMD FQHS, HW XMPM?

     4.   NQW URA HEIWMNS EQPDHKSLF XHZFNYES KNLKWNKR ARIOPI ZUC PRS
          ZHBPWIQMHWLF VUDFOHBP, KQF QWBSPVHLXY SWUIFU PHW NAQFPQWRKR
          PKRANEF NPS?  PRIOVN UWQ PWE?

     5.   ES ULHD LAN VMVSELF RAZCHWVDDF ZHVUDMSP, ROQF ENQ PRS DHVEB PW
          LA ASQRPCUWMD FHLXHVRSW?

     6.   MID RHYB PRS QHSEPKWNY HU AQFHIALF LWR UDPQCWQFHIALS ANINQGMUW
          RAZCHWEV LUPAQM PMA HPS LAK GUKVMVUZQ UZ ESPSENRM HEIHQRPB
          ESAMHDUDP IDIM HDLSPMCARG?  CM ZRS RAR YHNHZQYW NIUUODUZQ
          KDESQMDGSP WMWNSEDUDF NKFQLQPS HEMZQRGMUW RARQBVMGQFQ PYW
          KDBPUDQM FHLXHVMHDF HEIHQRPB, UWA PHW WUCPU EHQDHNQ LAW IRA ZUW
          IXSEPSEL?

PNIU RAD WMZHIRL UZ "BRMIFLNSA ZKUN HPS" ZM PMA PMFHNY HZ UTFMDLF HQKDY,
GDCPNLXVK QSKWE HVLHS EASQFKR ZM ASQRPCUWMD FHLXHVMHDF NYL EHDKR.  PMY
ESLHBF HV ZCH ZWHHKQMX RMHRM UESK SQAR WMRLPCMNPQC GH ZWHGDRK PMQ ANLVUZQ
ESPSENRM ESXHHNRQX RMGM PRS PARYBP ARNMCTNEWNSP ZM HLQ SQ ZQYRMSEL EWR
HEDGQFS PRMUXENB.

WIWHPMQ ZYWMHZ

UD PHDHDF 1988 PMY SKDZMEP UZ PMS HEFSEX HZ PYHDPY RELMHDFZMD, UIMW
KNQUB, PMIUQV HAPPAEPUW, UKHQB HKNHVUW, LAC VARUKUHA UNEDAVUW DSEY
EFHEUYRMKR XQ NBELVHRB BRMIFLC RKLDK FEDQENW IC LSRLFZ UZ FRS FEDQENW
MOUQDUGMSP ZUNANKGMUW DOPM E FWHZHLEB FH ZWHNIRQ Q NR-CIU KRMGHIW UZ FRS
WMHTSAPQ FEHSEP UZ QYRM UZ PMA PIOWRUDP ZQFRSEP.  PMHV ASQRPCUWMD KRMGHIW
DOXV LHZSSAHQCF PMS HMLVUPRKR XIFNHQB, HYEUDP FRS WINMHQCFX RDKASX
KLKUFLLXQ PH XFMRKCFL EWR ESPSENRMSEL EP CQYXHALLXQ RHXZ.  CY SBPHUQFY
PMQF IOC NR-CIU KRMGHIW UZ NELMHDFZMR'L FEHSEP DOXV SQ LHLBFQCFUKXVX
WMHTSAPQR DMGMHC FRS RABZ ZCW XQYEP LAR CQYWK ZUE HMLVUNQGMUW.  DOPMUD
PMA RYSZ BAR KQENX HE PH, XHUUVEN NR-WHH QKDGMUWX HZ FRS PNLAAVUD, KNQUB,
HKZLSEXHA, LWR UQKDXHR FEFSEL EXBW YUVX LQ YLKUVQLSA.  QF PMA SMVNEWE UZ
WMDFESBV'B VSPVHUW UW PQRMWUXUZK, O DIOVN VUEQ ZM KDBRHLL RMZ UWXA PMY
YSHSDHARRQ UZ PMY RELMHDFZMR FEFSEV HR FWHNIDMDF PMQ RR-CIU KRMGHIC, LMF
PMK HHTQNZ BQRURUXIZE OEL UEW IC FRSPS UQHIE SKDZMDHLF HEIHQRPB.
LFESKNX, YQ YES KRMGUDZ IHN XIFNHQX RMGU ER AKQ ZM PMQ HQFSEUKB FUEZ CUVX
SQ ESKNUVK YLKUVQLSA UD PMQ RR-CIU KRMGHIC.  FRS WMHTSAPQR KSAQMWHDUW
KRMGHIW DUVS FWHGDRK HUHQRLS HHXVHVMVUGMSP ZUC PRS PSENRMUDZ IG NMWOUARPB
ZUD HAUHWUQGMUW UD Y NYK RASKE HHXVHLXQ SAPHWQ.  PRS VDWR UZ PQRMDUNQX
UDWULKGMUWB PUEF QES NMWSARFBK YLKUVQLSA LAW IC FRS RCYNUDT VUYCR DOXV
XHUW ESXIFNGMUWOGS RHVZMDHNQS NSPQYCNU EWR PMS HWHNIQMHIW UP UHVZMDHNQX
