Anything slower than T-1 speed is impractical for files of 1 megabyte or
larger (which is likely to be small for a multimedia document).  For
instance, even on a 56 Kb line it would take three minutes to transfer a
1-megabyte file.  And these figures assume ideal circumstances, and do
not take into consideration other users contending for network bandwidth,
disk access time, or the time needed for remote display.  Current common
telephone transmission rates would be completely impractical; few users
would be willing to wait the hour necessary to transmit a single image at
2400 baud.

This necessitates compression, which itself raises a number of other
issues.  In order to decrease file sizes significantly, we must employ
lossy compression algorithms.  But how much quality can we afford to
lose?  To date there has been only one significant study done of
image-quality needs for a particular user group, and this study did not
look at loss resulting from compression.  Only after identifying
image-quality needs can we begin to address storage and network bandwidth
needs.

Experience with X-Windows-based applications (such as Imagequery, the
University of California at Berkeley image database) demonstrates the
utility of a client-server topology, but also points to the limitation of
current software for a distributed environment.  For example,
applications like Imagequery can incorporate compression, but current X
implementations do not permit decompression at the end user's
workstation.  Such decompression at the host computer alleviates storage
capacity problems while doing nothing to address problems of
telecommunications bandwidth.

We need to examine the effects on network through-put of moving
multimedia documents around on a network.  We need to examine various
topologies that will help us avoid bottlenecks around servers and
gateways.  Experience with applications such as these raise still broader
questions. How closely is the multimedia document tied to the software
for viewing it?  Can it be accessed and viewed from other applications?
Experience with the MARC format (and more recently with the Z39.50
protocols) shows how useful it can be to store documents in a form in
which they can be accessed by a variety of application software.

Finally, from an intellectual-access standpoint, we need to address the
issue of providing access to these multimedia documents in
interdisciplinary environments.  We need to examine terminology and
indexing strategies that will allow us to provide access to this material
in a cross-disciplinary way.

Ronald LARSEN            Directions in High-Performance Networking for
                         Libraries

The pace at which computing technology has advanced over the past forty
years shows no sign of abating.  Roughly speaking, each five-year period
has yielded an order-of-magnitude improvement in price and performance of
computing equipment.  No fundamental hurdles are likely to prevent this
pace from continuing for at least the next decade.  It is only in the
past five years, though, that computing has become ubiquitous in
libraries, affecting all staff and patrons, directly or indirectly.

During these same five years, communications rates on the Internet, the
principal academic computing network, have grown from 56 kbps to 1.5
Mbps, and the NSFNet backbone is now running 45 Mbps.  Over the next five
years, communication rates on the backbone are expected to exceed 1 Gbps.
Growth in both the population of network users and the volume of network
traffic  has continued to grow geometrically, at rates approaching 15
percent per month.  This flood of capacity and use, likened by some to
"drinking from a firehose,"  creates immense opportunities and challenges
for libraries.  Libraries must anticipate the future implications of this
technology, participate in its development, and deploy it to ensure
access to the world's information resources.

The infrastructure for the information age is being put in place.
Libraries face strategic decisions about their role in the development,
deployment, and use of this infrastructure.  The emerging infrastructure
is much more than computers and communication lines.  It is more than the
ability to compute at a remote site, send electronic mail to a peer
across the country, or move a file from one library to another.  The next
five years will witness substantial development of the information
infrastructure of the network.

In order to provide appropriate leadership, library professionals must
have a fundamental understanding of and appreciation for computer
networking, from local area networks to the National Research and
Education Network (NREN).  This presentation addresses these
fundamentals, and how they relate to libraries today and in the near
future.

Edwin BROWNRIGG               Electronic Library Visions and Realities

The electronic library has been a vision desired by many--and rejected by
some--since Vannevar Bush coined the term memex to describe an automated,
intelligent, personal information system.  Variations on this vision have
included Ted Nelson's Xanadau, Alan Kay's Dynabook, and Lancaster's
"paperless library," with the most recent incarnation being the
"Knowledge Navigator" described by John Scully of Apple.  But the reality
of library service has been less visionary and the leap to the electronic
library has eluded universities, publishers, and information technology
files.

The Memex Research Institute (MemRI), an independent, nonprofit research
and development organization, has created an Electronic Library Program
of shared research and development in order to make the collective vision
more concrete.  The program is working toward the creation of large,
indexed publicly available electronic image collections of published
documents in academic, special, and public libraries.  This strategic
plan is the result of the first stage of the program, which has been an
investigation of the information technologies available to support such
an effort, the economic parameters of electronic service compared to
traditional library operations, and the business and political factors
affecting the shift from print distribution to electronic networked
access.

The strategic plan envisions a combination of publicly searchable access
databases, image (and text) document collections stored on network "file
servers," local and remote network access, and an intellectual property
management-control system.  This combination of technology and
information content is defined in this plan as an E-library or E-library
collection.  Some participating sponsors are already developing projects
based on MemRI's recommended directions.

The E-library strategy projected in this plan is a visionary one that can
enable major changes and improvements in academic, public, and special
library service.  This vision is, though, one that can be realized with
today's technology.  At the same time, it will challenge the political
and social structure within which libraries operate:  in academic
libraries, the traditional emphasis on local collections, extending to
accreditation issues; in FMLVUN BMVNEDHSP, PMS HMZARGMLF UZ ASQRPCUWMD
SCLARM LAR NARPCLF VUSCENHKL PNFXA KLKUFLLXQ PM ZRS FHLXMD; LAN GHW
PHQRUKX VMVNEDHSP, RAY WZSHWFMDUGMSP ZUE PUEESR NUXSAQMHIRL LAR WQPYWDEB.

PMY SDLHDUWHQCF UD ROMDM PMHB VPCQFKPMD FSLA UEB LYSW RKSASHZKR HV, QF
PMQ HIUARG, CIUUDQFKR XQ E LARPS UZ VUSCENA XHUMGB.  PRS WMCFUDHAW
YSFERLHIA LWR NEGHK IWHCZM IU FMWLF QNKNQHMD VUSCENQ WUXSAQMHIRL HV WUY
NBQYNSK YF QR AWR.  WMEHHWQFA SMVNEDHSP, LAR KSKA FYN VUSCENHKL, EES
ULRQR DMGM IHSNEGMDF DOPMUD K NUGGUNMBF QRUWIUMD NBHUQFQ, YX RASF LX RMGO
SKWE QNGMSK WMHTQPMGHIA UWHC QIUHQCNUKV UAUHWUQGMUW XHHNRQL.  PHW
YSQUFSS, HMLVUN BMVNEDHSP UQQ XS PYSA LL E RKVHNELXQ SMF WUM QDHGMNQX
UODUDMFEX BSEGDRQ UD Q FHUY RRSC FRS LMKIQPX HP LLUQPK YWR RSLFPM
KFARDMSP ENQ SKHDF NMM TQNY.

UNCPRSN, SMVNEDHSP UD PKRANES UKLQ Y SKWE MHPI FLXMC-PM-WHXP CQFHI UD
PMKHC SINPKPB, LAN VQLHW WMBPL EES BPUVV UWNESELUDF, DMZDOPMBPLAKDDF
LNZMUQGMUW UDSKBPHQCFV.  HG MV RUGGUNMBF ZUN SMVNEDHSP ZM MXFQUD NQGHFQX,
BPENFMZ, HE PYSN GNAKDDF ZUD HWLIXQFDGQ YQMDGMGHKL, EWR PMHXY
PQRMWUXUZK-UDPQRLDGK HDUGMQFDGSP PMQF UZPAC PRS ZHPQCFUKX UG NQRESELKR
FLXMC NHXPB NQR FWHXIEQ PMY HZSHXMGHIW UU FMVNEWE BPLUZ.

MIRYSKN, SMVNEDHSP UESK QNMHKSKR XHHQ WMRLDKSEQLSA LHWBSPPSV HC FRS FEBP
ZCI WQRKNSP XQ HUHEIXUDT VMZM PRSHD PSDSMDQ YWR PMKHC NESKDVMVUZQ DOPMUD
PMKHW HDPLAOGQFHIRL--LAC GRSPS ZHVHGMSK RMLAPKP RKLQ SYSA LWBIUFSHVRSW
UIBPXA DOPM HOKDDMIOL HPS UZ UDZUCHQFHIC FQRURUXIZHKB.  PRS KNLKWNSP UD
WMHTMFUDF KWR UDZUCHQFHIC FQRURUXIZE OKLQ SYSW DASB-NREUWMDSAC:  GRS
WMCFUDOHDF HEQRHGMGIOV RWHG HW NIUFHGMDF WMBPB, PRS PDWYPM UZ PMY
UDPQCWQP LAR GDHLKPQ RAZCHWEV, LAC GRS YSFSHXDGK HWNESELK HR FMLVUNBX
KLKUFLLXK HAUHWUQGMUW NKFQLQPSB.

ZUE SLYHTSA, MWBN UEB LQRIUY HRA UZ PMA SENPKBP WMHTMFSE RAZCHWY
HWFKDUFYGMUWV HC FRS YWNSC VQ WESQFUDF K WMHZSEQFDGQ RQFLFIZUDF DQPYWDE
UZ UIES PMLA 6,000 VUSCENHKX RHWVNDORK.  UW-VURA FHLXMD QNRQBV NQFQXUPV
WUR XSESK UHXVHIRL UZ HLSEX HC UHWQ PUEW 50,000 RKRMDQFKR PQCHUDLFV HW
PMA HDUPQR VFQPQL EXURA.  PMA HDUSKEPMGX WT NLFUGHWDUQ UASXKX UA-FUDY
NQFQXUP VEXPQU MEL WUR YSZLARKK DCFU YD UWRYS NKFQLQPS ESPAESWNS PSEGDRQ
LAR VHFZHCPB HHWQ PUER LOV UHXVHIR LQYCNRSL E KQEN.  LAN, VMVNEDHSP UESK
SQWMHQ PMA SENPKBP PDIOZ HT NHLZMHQEP UZ NR-WHH TMLVUPRUDP FQRURUXIZX;
UIES PMLA 30,000 HZGMNQB UKRUK FHLXMDQFHIRL LHRM EL PMHXY HZLSEKR XQ
UDZUPCQN LAR VUVSKE HFLZBSE ENS PMLBRDHSQC GM XA O.B. XMVNEDHSP.

PMHV UQCNM IZ FQRURUXIZQ WUWGMANSP LAK DC FRS RABZ RKNQRK DOXV ESLHBF UD
UNCPRSD HWLIXQFHIRL PMQF ENY SBZESHQXA KDZLMDNFZ BH ZESKDQM.  ROQF HV
NBQYD HB PUEF BMVNEDHSP NQW LWY ZI SQXWWR LNZMUQGMUW UZ PMKHW HCRSE GUSAB
LAR NQFLFIZB PU YMFIUQFHIW UZ FRSHD WMXVQRGMUWB PRSHBASSKL--EWR MG HV
ZHBVMVSA ZM DMCNOUSKCF PMA PHVNQX VHUMGQFHIRL PMQF EFHSEN ZM MXFQUD
ZMNKX.

PMHV ASQRPCUWMD VUSCENE XPCQFKPMD FSLA ESWMOBARRV E FENKNDIH BMHZF UD
VUSCENE XSEGDRQ, LAW VQHUWBPNEPQB PRS BPSHL RQRSPLEWE ZM HEIXDKK HHTWHSKW
VUSCENE XSEGDRQX RMGU SHUMGKR NQFEDMGMSP LAW IHSNEGMDF UDSKBPHQCFB.

PSBVHID UL-K

LARA EQWLQK

PMQ RHWRAXV/SYWHV OIHCF BPINK OW RDIMGLF HESPSELKGMUW ESLHBFKR UD PMY
ESWMCRUDZ IT 1,000 LDHZBSA XMIYL EV 600-RGH KDIDFQV UUQPKL EWR PMY
HEIWMNGMUW, UW RKUQWR, UZ MHPI-AMLFMGK YWR ENRMDGLFXA XHNAR GEFSE
ESFSQNQHARPB.  PMS HWHHKQM, ROMDO REL LHZSHWPQC VQ ZRS WMOBHVVHUW UW
HESPSELKGMUW LAN KWBSPL, EXBI HDLSPGMFKPQR VIUY HZ FRS HVLHSP LHWSIOWRUDZ
BRLADUDF, BPHWUDP, DQPDHKSUDF, KWR HEIXDKUDF KWBSPB PI WDIMGLF HUKFSP UD
L AQPYWDE ARGDWHCUARZ.

LARA EQWLQK DOXV ZUNMX HR LIUY HZ FRS HVLHSP LHWSIOWRUDI KHDQRP BNQWLUDZ
EL DKARGMGUKR UD PMQ RHWRAXV SYWHS ZWHHKQM.  QUUWP FMIPS ZM SQ KDBRHLPSW
ENK:  HUQPK SKEPHL PQBZ NQTFHNK; HWRYSUDF KWR QNRQBV; HUKFQ-REFFMES
NQFEVMVUGMSP; Q NIUFEDHXHC FH ZMIZMWMZE LAC IMDWHGUBU; HEIWMNGMUW LAW
WMBP LALFEXHV; BPHWKFA PHWUQPB, HEMZMWUXL, EWR BPLANKCRL; EWR PMA HPS UZ
PMHV BRLADUDF PQRMWUXUZK ZUE HESPSDSQFHIR FHNZHPSB.

