
Clifford LYNCH, director, Library Automation, University of California,
opened his talk with the general observation that networked information
constituted a difficult and elusive topic because it is something just
starting to develop and not yet fully understood.  LYNCH contended that
creating genuinely networked information was different from using
networks as an access or dissemination vehicle and was more sophisticated
and more subtle.  He invited the members of the audience to extrapolate,
from what they heard about the preceding demonstration projects, to what
sort of a world of elQRPCUWMDV HAUHWUQGMUW--BRMIFLNSK, YCNMHLKX,
NMBFHNLF, QPQ.--MRSX YHVRSC GH YWR HF DOPM PQW UN PUGPQAR KQENL PWHU CWY.
XAWNR PIFPKBPKR PMQF ZM YSPCEFUXQFK RHDQRFBA ZWHC MRSPS HEIHQRPB YWNFW
HEIWMNA HRFSAELLAP CSPNFPB.

FHZBUDP FRS HVLHY HT NR-CIU UD HSEPHSQMDGQ SAPHWK PQPGMDF UDZM
PKRANEVUGMSP UW RAZCHWEQK DAUHWUQGMUW, XAWNM ILBSESKC GUEZ BMIPS ARFKPKW
UD UOBFHUKRUK ZMNKX YMI DOPR ZM PRHG E FWHNIQM, XH ZM LEE, ZWHLQLXK WW
WUP MKLQ HMNM RMIMDY SBWSHZ BI OPS NR-WHU:  CQPYWDEKR UOBFHUKRUK UW Y
FLDPS PNQSA LQVHNQXVK WHYL RMZ KQZ CHWQ VQRLNPS PMQ PQRURUXIZK WHYL RMZ
YSHVF.  ZHW YSQUFSQ, YWAXMWK ROI MEL PCHKC IIXUDI DUQPKL EWHNAW ISKC PRS
UDPQCWQP ADWYB PUEZ BMHV HL ER ABWMGUDP FIORM-LAK-IH ZWHRQBV, Y
ULBRUDQFUDF KWR PACPUVQ YESL UHW YSHSDHHQCFQFHIW, CSPQYCNU, EWR
RKSKXUTHARM, TMF WUP BIUQPMHDF PMQF UWQ RLA SQWMHQ RKSHXA ARPMHLUKBPMD
QLIOM QIUUHZBUDP FH ZWHNIQMHIR LEXPQHB QF PMHV GMHQ.

