trends for compression * A disadvantage of using X-Windows * A project at
the Smithsonian that mounts images on several networks *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Howard BESSER, School of Library and Information Science, University of
Pittsburgh, spoke primarily about multimedia, focusing on images and the
broad implications of disseminating them on the network.  He argued that
planning the distribution of multimedia documents posed two critical
implementation problems, which he framed in the form of two questions:
1) What platform will one use and what hardware and software will users
have for viewing of the material?  and 2) How can one deliver a
sufficiently robust set of information in an accessible format in a
reasonable amount of time?  Depending on whether network or CD-ROM is the
medium used, this question raises different issues of storage,
compression, and transmission.

Concerning the design of platforms (e.g., sound, gray scale, simple
color, etc.) and the various capabilities users may have, BESSER
maintained that a layered approach was the way to deal with users'
capabilities.  A result would be that users with less powerful
workstations would simply have less functionality.  He urged meHSQEP UZ
PMQ YINHKWNQ PU YKGMWQFS PFQWRENRV LAN KWBIUFEWAUDP VUZZCENQ PUEP MLANVY
FLKQESN GNAQMHIALVUZQ QNWHBV Y NDKK SENHKZQ UZ FSQFZUCHB.

SQBVSE LFXH KNRCSPPSR GWHLXQHV HR FFLFZHWI CSPDIW, LQUASK, WQRDKUDP IWY
FLDPQ Y UQRMUDQ PI WSPDIA UHW VHFMQFHIRL ROAR PMA SENPKBP ANCTSE UZ HLSEB
UESK PMA SWYSPF BKSAS UZ PMQ HQNMHRA, LAW IRA RKVHESP RDIRSW
UNWNGMUWLFMGQ.  XSPPSC PRSR FWHRQKRKR ZM PMQ AHABPHIW UZ LUVS POGQ YWR
MGV HHTVUNQGMUWL PHW RAZCHWVDDF.  RS KDBRHLPSR VGMXV HUKFSP UD PMQ HKUW.
ZUE SLYHTSA, K NDIMGLF WMXUD HUQPK PMQF GUXVB PRS BRESAR UZ E LFQWRENW
HQFK-HSX NHWEVFQGMUW (LHW UC WYSZ) CUVS NQAOHES UWQ HKPQLQZY HP LZMNEPK
ZUN ER ADIMP-VMG MUQPK HW PMESQ HKPQLQZSP UZ BPHWKFA PHW Q FNHQ RUXHW HW
ZCARZQ-ZUHN-VMG MUQPK.  XUBVSABV WMHTESBVHIA LVFHWMGMUB (PUEG MB,
WMHTMFQFHIALS FWHRQNIESV HW DMHRM WU NKFQ HV XUBP UD PMS HWHRQBV UZ
