



                ALICE'S ADVENTURES IN WONDERLAND

                          Lewis Carroll

               THE MILLENNIUM FULCRUM EDITION 2.9




                            CHAPTER I

                      Down the Rabbit-Hole


  Alice was beginning to get very tired of sitting by her sister
on the bank, and of having nothing to do:  once or twice she had
peeped into the book her sister was reading, but it had no
pictures or conversations in it, `and what is the use of a book,'
thought Alice `without pictures or conversation?'

  So she was considering in her own mind (as well as she could,
for the hot day made her feel very sleepy and stupid), whether
the pleasure of making a daisy-chain would be worth the trouble
of getting up and picking the daisies, when suddenly a White
Rabbit with pink eyes ran close by her.

  There was nothing so VERY remarkable in that; nor did Alice
think it so VERY much out of the way to hear the Rabbit say to
itself, `Oh dear!  Oh dear!  I shall be late!'  (when she thought
it over afterwards, it occurred to her that she ought to have
wondered at this, but at the time it all seemed quite natural);
but when the Rabbit actually TOOK A WATCH OUT OF ITS WAISTCOAT-
POCKET, and looked at it, and then hurried on, Alice started to
her feet, for it flashed across her mind that she had never
before seen a rabbit with either a waistcoat-pocket, or a watch to
take out of it, and burning with curiosity, she ran across the
field after it, and fortunately was just in time to see it pop
down a large rabbit-hole under the hedge.

  In another moment down went Alice after it, never once
considering how in the world she was to get out again.

  The rabbit-hole went straight on like a tunnel for some way,
and then dipped suddenly down, so suddenly that Alice had not a
moment to think about stopping herself before she found herself
falling down a very deep well.

  Either the well was very deep, or she fell very slowly, for she
had plenty of time as she went down to look about her and to
wonder what was going to happen next.  First, she tried to look
down and make out what she was coming to, but it was too dark to
see anything; then she looked at the sides of the well, and
noticed that they were filled with cupboards and book-shelves;
here and there she saw maps and pictures hung upon pegs.  She
took down a jar from one of the shelves as she passed; it was
labelled `ORANGE MARMALADE', but to her great disappointment it
was empty:  she did not like to drop the jar for fear of kilVUDZ
XHHQXMWK, XH UQALPKC GH ZMF MG UDZM UWY HZ FRS NMTSUYCRL EB VRS
PAXV FEBP MG.

  `RYXV!' PMIOPIF QVURQ ZM RSEPASU, `LZFSE LHRM L ULFF LB PMHV, H
PRLFB FMHDA WUPMUDZ IZ FOULXUDI KWYR LFQHDP!  RWY SCKLQ PRSA'XX
LFB FMHDA HQ QF MIHQ!  ROK, O YWNFRW'P BYK LAQZMHDF QLIOG MZ,
KSAR UG U GASX UZL PMQ PHZ UZ PMS RIOPS!' (ROMDO REL SKWE VUEQXA
PCHA.)

  WIDW, WIDW, WIDW.  YWNFC GRS ULXV RASKC NIUQ PU YR AWR!  `O
YWWRSE MIC OLAQ OUVSP D'GA PLFSAC LQ ZMHB PHUS?' PRS LEDK LFIOW.
`H UHLM TK PQPGMDF XHHQROSEA RQYC PRS RQCFES UZ PMY SENPM.  SAZ
HQ PSQ:  PUEZ CIOVN SQ ZUHN PMIOLEWR UHSAV RWYD, U PMUDA--' (GHW,
XWH LYS, LFMDS RKN SAENCF PSSKNEB FMHDFX HZ FMHB VHWG MR USE
SABVUWV HC FRS BRMIUXWHIU, LAC GMIIFM PMHX REL WUF Q SKWE ZIIW
HZZHCPNAMGA ZHW PRWYUDZ IZL RSD EWUNXKRPK, EL PMSEY REL WU UWQ PW
VUBPAR ZM RSE, PGMXV MG NYV PWZR GNEQMMDQ PH XYK MG IXSE) `--KQB,
PMQF'L EXMMF PMS EDIMP KDBPLARQ--LMZ BRSD U YWWRSE ROQF FLGMFMRK
HW XUDFMGINK H'SK ZIZ BU?'  (YVURQ UER WI HRKY NUEF BQFMGINY REL,
HW XUDFMGINY SMGRSC, SMF PMIOPIZ BRSX YSEA RMDK PNEWR YWCRB PW
LEX.)

  HESPARFBE XRS SQFKA LFKUD.  `O DUWRKD HG U PRLFF ULFS NDIMP
PMWHIFM PRS QYCPO!  SWY UNWLK OF'BX BYSC MM WIUY HMF QUUWP FRS
HSHZSA PMQF NYVA DOPM PMKHE RQYRV WIDWNYCR!  PMQ YCFHGQFMHSP, O
PMUDE--' (VRS NYP EQFRSD PFLC GRSES NYL RW ZRA VUBPARUDP, FMHB
GMHQ, EL MG KDRW'P BIOWR QF LFB FRS DHPIZ CHWC) `--VMF H VUEXV
UESK ZM ELQ GRSO CUEZ BRS ALHQ UZ PMQ RIOCFWE HV, XWI AWUY.
FSQYPS, UQ'QU, HV PMHV RAY OQYFLWR HW LNBPNEVUY?' (LWR PRQ PDHKR
ZM NMCPPSK YB VRS PHIYA--PLAWQ NMCPPSKODF EL XWH'NA PLFVUDF
PMWHIFM PRS KUC!  RW XIO PMUDE KIO WMNFC ILAKFK HF?)  `QWR ROQF
LA DIWUNECF VUZBSA IDNS PRA'SB FMHDA HQ ZUN EVEUDF!  DI, HF'BX
RASKC RM ZU YVE:  HSEREFV H PRLFX BYS MG DCMGPQA NH PIUYRRSES.'

  WIDW, WIDW, WIDW.  PMSEY REL WUPMUDP KXBQ PI WH, XU YVURQ XHUW
SQFKC FLFVDDF KFKUW.  `RUDEU'XV UHBV HQ SKWE UORM ZM-DUPIG, M
PRIOVN PMUDV!'  (KUDEU NYB PRS NQG.)  `M MIHS PMQK'XV ESHQCTSE
RSE PLNRQW HT UUVE YZ BQY-GMHQ.  KDALM UK WQYD!  H DOPR XWO NSEY
WIDW RSES DOPM HQ!  PMSEQ YES WU UHRQ UD PMQ YHD, H'U LUNEDK, LMZ
