But do cats eat bats, I wonder?'  And here Alice began to get
rather sleepy, and went on saying to herself, in a dreamy sort of
way, `Do cats eat bats?  Do cats eat bats?' and sometimes, `Do
bats eat cats?' for, you see, as she couldn't answer either
question, it didn't much matter which way she put it.  She felt
that she was dozing off, and had just begun to dream that she
was walking hand in hand with Dinah, and saying to her very
earnestly, `Now, Dinah, tell me the truth:  did you ever eat a
bat?' when suddenly, thump! thump! down she came upon a heap of
sticks and dry leaves, and the fall was over.

  Alice was not a bit hurt, and she jumped up on to her feet in a
moment:  she looked up, but it was all dark overhead; before her
was another long passage, and the White Rabbit was still in
sight, hurrying down it.  There was not a moment to be lost:
away went Alice like the wind, and was just in time to hear it
say, as it turned a corner, `Oh my ears and whiskers, how late
it's getting!'  She was close behind it when she turned the
corner, but the Rabbit was no longer to be seen:  she found
herself in a long, low hall, which was lit up by a row of lamps
hanging from the roof.

  There were doors all round the hall, but they were all locked;
and when Alice had been all the way down one side and up the
other, trying every door, she walked sadly down the middle,
wondering how she was ever to get out again.

  Suddenly she came upon a little three-legged table, all made of
solid glass; there was nothing on it except a tiny golden key,
and Alice's first thought was that it might belong to one of the
doors of the hall; but, alas! either the locks were too large, or
the key was too small, but at any rate it would not open any of
them.  However, on the second time round, she came upon a low
curtain she had not noticed before, and behind it was a little
door about fifteen inches high:  she tried the little golden key
in the lock, and to her great delight it fitted!

  Alice opened the door and found that it led into a small
passage, not much larger than a rat-hole:  she knelt down and
looked along the passage into the loveliest garden you ever saw.
How she longed to get out of that dark hall, and wander about
among those beds of bright flowers and those cool fountains, but
she could not even get her head though the doorway; `and even if
my head would go through,' thought poor Alice, `it would be of
very little use without my shoulders.  Oh, how I wish
I could shut up like a telescope!  I think I could, if I only
know how to begin.'  For, you see, so many out-of-the-way things
had happened lately, that Alice had begun to think that very few
things indeed were really impossible.

  There seemed to be no use in waiting by the little door, so she
went back to the table, half hoping she might find another key on
it, or at any rate a book of rules for shutting people up like
telescopes:  this time she found a little bottle on it, (`which
certainly was not here before,' said Alice,) and round the neck
of the bottle was a paper label, with the words `DRINK ME'
beautifully printed on it in large letters.

  It was all very well to say `Drink me,' but the wise little
Alice was not going to do THAT in a hurry.  `No, I'll look
first,' she said, `and see whether it's marked "poison" or not';
for she had read several nice little histories about children who
had got burnt, and eaten up by wild beasts and other unpleasant
things, all because they WOULD not remember the simple rules
their friends had taught them:  such as, that a red-hot poker
will burn you if you hold it too long; and that if you cut your
finger VERY deeply with a knife, it usually bleeds; and she had
never forgotten that, if you drink much from a bottle marked
`poison,' it is almost certain to disagree with you, sooner or
later.

  However, this bottle was NOT marked `poison,' so Alice ventured
to taste it, and finding it very nice, (it had, in fact, a sort
of mixed flavour of cherry-tart, custard, pine-apple, roast
turkey, toffee, and hot buttered toast,) she very soon finished
it off.

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

         *       *       *       *       *       *

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

  `What a curious feeling!' said Alice; `I must be shutting up
like a telescope.'

  And so it was indeed:  she was now only ten inches high, and
her face brightened up at the thought that she was now the right
size for going though the little door into that lovely garden.
First, however, she waited for a few minutes to see if she was
going to shrink any further:  she felt a little nervous about
this; `for it might end, you know,' said Alice to herself, `in my
going out altogether, like a candle.  I wonder what I should be
like then?'  And she tried to fancy what the flame of a candle is
like after the candle is blown out, for she could not remember
ever having seen such a thing.

  After a while, finding that nothing more happened, she decided
on going into the garden at once; but, alas for poor Alice! when
she got to the door, she found he had forgotten the little golden
key, and when she went back to the table for it, she found she
could not possibly reach it:  she could see it quite plainly
through the glass, and she tried her best to climb up one of the
legs of the table, but it was too slippery; and when she had
tired herself out with trying, the poor little thing sat down and
cried.

  `Come, there's no use in crying like that!' said Alice to
herself, rather sharply; `I advise you to leave off this minute!'
She generally gave herself very good advice, (though she very
seldom followed it), and sometimes she scolded herself so
severely as to bring tears into her eyes; and once she remembered
trying to box her own ears for having cheated herself in a game
of croquet she was playing against herself, for this curious
child was very fond of pretending to be two people.  `But it's no
use now,' thought poor Alice, `to pretend to be two people!  Why,
there's hardly enough of me left to make ONE respectable
person!'

  Soon her eye fell on a little glass box that was lying under
the table:  she opened it, and found in it a very small cake, on
which the words `EAT ME' were beautifully marked in currants.
`Well, I'll eat it,' said Alice, `and if it makes me grow larger,
I can reach the key; and if it makes me grow smaller, I can creep
under the door; so either way I'll get into the garden, and I
don't care which happens!'

  She ate a little bit, and said anxiously to herself, `Which
way?  Which way?', holding her hand on the top of her head to
feel which way it was growing, and she was quite surprised to
find that she remained the same size:  to be sure, this generally
happens when one eats cake, but Alice had got so much into the
way of expecting nothing but out-of-the-way things to happen,
that it seemed quite dull and stupid for life to go on in the
common way.

  So she set to work, and very soon finished off the cake.

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

         *       *       *       *       *       *

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *




                           CHAPTER II

                        The Pool of Tears


  `Curiouser and curiouser!' cried Alice (she was so much
surprised, that for the moment she quite forgot how to speak good
English); `now I'm opening out like the largest telescope that
ever was!  Good-bye, feet!' (for when she looked down at her
feet, they seemed to be almost out of sight, they were getting so
far off).  `Oh, my poor little feet, I wonder who will put on
your shoes and stockings for you now, dears?  I'm sure _I_ shan't
be able!  I shall be a great deal too far off to trouble myself
about you:  you must manage the best way you can; --but I must be
kind to them,' thought Alice, `or perhaps they won't walk the
way I want to go!  Let me see:  I'll give them a new pair of
boots every Christmas.'

  And she went on planning to herself how she would manage it.
`They must go by the carrier,' she thought; `and how funny it'll
seem, sending presents to one's own feet!  And how odd the
directions will look!

            ALICE'S RIGHT FOOT, ESQ.
                HEARTHRUG,
                    NEAR THE FENDER,
                        (WITH ALICE'S LOVE).

Oh dear, what nonsense I'm talking!'

  Just then her head struck against the roof of the hall:  in
fact she was now more than nine feet high, and she at once took
up the little golden key and hurried off to the garden door.

  Poor Alice!  It was as much as she could do, lying down on one
side, to look through into the garden with one eye; but to get
through was more hopeless than ever:  she sat down and began to
cry again.

  `You ought to be ashamed of yourself,' said Alice, `a great
girl like you,' (she might well say this), `to go on crying in
this way!  Stop this moment, I tell you!'  But she went on all
the same, shedding gallons of tears, until there was a large pool
all round her, about four inches deep and reaching half down the
hall.

  After a time she heard a little pattering of feet in the
distance, and she hastily dried her eyes to see what was coming.
It was the White Rabbit returning, splendidly dressed, with a
pair of white kid glIXSP UD UWS RLAN KWR L FENPK ULD UC FRS
MZRSE:  RQ RQUQ PWHZBUDF KXUDF UD K FESQF MOWSQ, OMFPQDHDF ZM
MHHBASU LP RQ RQUY, `HM! PRS NIRMSPB, PRS NIRMSPX! HO! RUW'P BRS
SQ LELKPK UG D'GQ ESHP MSE NYMGUDF!'  KVURQ PABF XH RKPHSEQFY
PMQF PRY REL ESKNQ ZU YVE RSSF UZ LAX WRA; XH, ROAR PMS EQLVMZ
NQHQ RAEN RSE, PRS SQFKD, UA L XUC, ZHUDK XIMDK, `HZ AIO FSQYPS,
VHC--'  PRS NELVMG BPENPQK GHISACFXA, RCHZHSC GRS ROMGQ EDK
FVIXSP LAC GRS ULA, LWR VEHNDHKR YNYK UDZM PMK RENADSPL EP RENW
EL RS WMNFK IW.

  LFMDQ PWZA IT FRS ULA LWR FVIXSP, LAN, KB PRS UEXV NYB SSEX
MIP, BRS EQTF ULWLUDP ISEPSFU LFB FRS GMHQ PRY RARZ MC FLFVDDF:
`RKEN, RKEN!  MIC YHASE KSSEQZMHDF HV ZM-NKK!  YWR KQBPSENKX
PMUDPV RYCF UW HOBP EL HLNLV.  U YWWRSE UG D'GQ SYSW NUEDFKR UD
PMA RDIMP?  SAM CQ PMHDA:  NYV H PMS PQUY RRSD U ZIF MT FMHB
UICWUDI?  D LFUIBP PMUDV D NQW CQHQHSQN PYSVUDF L FMGFBY
KDZLSEARM.  TMF UG H'U WUZ BRS LEHQ, PMA RYSM BHABPHID UX, RMI UD
PMY RHWVN QU U?  KM, PUEP'B PMK PESQF FHOZSA!'  LAR VRS SQFKW
PMUDVDDF IXSE LFB FRS RMUVRCAR PRQ ERAC ZUEZ CSEY HZ FRS LEHQ KFY
EL RSEPASZ, FH XYS UG PRQ RIOVN UESK SQAR RMLAPKN GHW LAX WZ
PMQH.

  `H'U LHES H'U WUF QNK,' PRS PKUN, `GHW RSE RKUD PHYV HR LMNO
XUDF DHDFSAPB, LAC IUDK RHYLR'F PI HW CUDFVQPL EF QXV; LAK D'O
LHES M DLA'M TQ HQLAS, ZUD H ADWY LFX BHWPB UZ PMUDPV, LAR VRS,
IM! PRQ EWURX LHRM K LSEA XMGFBQ!  SSPDKSP, PRS'P PRQ, YWR H'U O,
LAW--II RQYE, RWY FHOZVUDF MG LFV UV!  H'XV PCK OG U ADWY LFB FRS
PMUDPV H OPSC GI YWUN.  XQP HQ PSA:  PIOC PHUSP GUSK HV ZCASSK,
LAN GIOC PHUSP VHV OB PMHCPYSA, LWR ZUHN GMHQB VKSAR HV--IM RKEN!
H VUEXV RASKD PQP ZM ZCARZQ QF PMQF NEPQ!  MIRYSKC, PRS
UOBFHGVUNQGMUW FQLXK RHYLR'P BDIDUZA:  SAP'B PCK ZYHPDEFOE.
XUWRUW HV PMQ REFMGLF UZ FEDHL, EWR FEDHV HB PRS NQGHFQX UP NIUY,
LAR CIUA--RM, ZUEP'B LFX NWHDF, H'U RQCPKUD!  U UOBP UESK SQAR
RMLAPKN GHW UQSQV!  U'XV PCK YWR LEE "OWY WIPM PMA SMGFBY--"'
LAR VRS NCHXPSR ISE UEWRX HR USE FLF EV HP LRS RYES LEKODF SABVUWB,
LAC VKPLA ZM ESHSQF MG, LMP MSE XIMDS PIOWRKR MIENPS LAW
BPNEDFQ, YWR PMY RHWRV KDR WMZ WMHQ PMS PQUQ YB PRSA OPSC GI WW:--

            `MID RMZM PRS VUZBSA NCMWIWUVY
              HUHEIXS RHV PRUDUDP FKUX,
            LAR GIOC PRS NYPQEP UZ PMA RUVY
              UW KSSEK ZUXRKR LNQSA!

            `MID NRSSEUNXVE OS PYSHB ZM PDUD,
              MID WQYFBE XHEQYR IHV NBYNB,
            LAR DASWMHQ VUZBSA GUPRSP UD
              DOPM PKCFXA BHUVUDI DYNB!'

  `H'U LHES PMHXQ YES WUZ BRS DHPIZ CHWRV,' LEDK ZHHW LFMDQ, YWR
RSE SKQL PUVSAR DMGM PQYEP KFKUA LB VRS RYCF UW, `H UHLM TQ HQLAS
LUPQN EXV, LAK D PRLFS UKLQ PI ZU YWR VUSK UD PMQF ZHEK VUZBSA
MIHLQ, YWR UESK RABZ ZM WU ZMEX ZM FSYK DOPM, LAW IR! SSKE PW
UQWA SABVUWB PU XQYCW!  WU, D'GQ HKNA HT HQ OUDN KXMMF MG; UG H'U
UQSQV, U'XV BPYK WIDW RSES!  MG'XV SQ WU HLQ PRSHD FHZBUDP FRSHD
RSKNV RWYA LWR LEKODF "WMHQ HF KFKUW, RQYD!"  H PRLFX UAFA XWZY
HF LAR VYK "ROU YU H PMAR?  PQXV HQ PMQF GUEPF, QWR PMAR, UG O
VUEQ SQUDP FUEF TSEXHD, U'XV WMHQ HF:  UG WUG, M'XV BPYK WIDW
RSES GMXV H'U XHHQXMWK ASPS"--LMZ, MI RQYC!' NDHKR LFMDY, RMGU E
LHWVAR LMEPZ MZ FQYEP, `D KW YHVM PRSX YIOVN FHZ BRSHD RSKNB
WIDW!  U KH BI XSEQ ZHDKR UZ SQUDF KXV LFUWS RSEY!'

  EL PRS PKUC GMHB VRS XUIYKR WIDW QF RSE RLARV, LAR DEL
LHEHDHPSC GH XYS PMQF PRS RKN FHZ MW URA UZ PMS EQLVMP'B VUZBSA
ROMGQ EDK FVIXSP ROUVS PRS NYB PLFVDDF.  `MID NLA H MKLK RUWY
PMQF?' PRQ PMIIFMP.  `H UHLM TK PWHDODF BHLFF LFKUD.'  PRK PMZ HF
LAR DARZ BM ZRS FQLXQ PI UQYLHES RSEPAST LK OF, QWR ZUNAC GUEZ,
EL RAENXA EL PRQ RIOVN FISPB, VRS NYL RWY QLIOZ BYW PAQP MHPI,
LAR DEL ZIUDZ IR LREUDVDDF NEGHNVE:  XRS XHUW ZUNAW IMF PMQF PMY
NQHLY HZ FMHX REL PMA PLA PRY REL MIVNUDF, KWR PRK RWHZSKR MG
UEBPUVK, OHLG MC FHUQ PU YXIDK PRDHDAUDF KNYK YBFIZQPRSW.

`PMQF NYL E ALWSWY SPNQHS!' LEDK LFMDQ, Y ZIIW RKLF PNDIMPARKR QF
PMS PINRKW NUEDFQ, SMF SKWE FVKN ZM GUWR RSEPASP LGMXV UD
YSHVPQWNQ; `YWR WUN ZHW PMK PENRKA!' LWR PRS ELA DOPM LFX BHSKR
LQDQ ZM PMA SMGFBK RWZC:  SMF, LFEL! PMA SMGFBK RWZC DEL PRMF
KFKUA, LWR PMA SMGFBK PUXRKD AQK NYB XKODF UW PMK PFLBV FQLXQ YB
SQZUES, `LAC GMHDFL EES YWEPQ PUER ASKC,' PMIIFMP PMS HWZC NMHVN,
`ZUD H RASKC DEL XH BHLFF LB PMHB LAPHWA, RKSSE!  LAK D RKNBENY
MG'B PWZ LQC, GUEG MG MB!'

  EL PRS PKUC GRSPS YWCRP RSE ZUMZ BXHGHSN, KWR UD LAMZRSW
UIHQCF, PHFLPR! PRY REL HF ZM RSC NMHD UR LLFZ CQFSE.  RS GUEPZ
DKQY NYB PUEP BRS UER VIUSRWY ULXVAR UDZM PMS PQY, `LAK DC FUEZ
NQPS M DLA ZI LQDQ XQ NEUVNYE,' XRS LEDK ZM RSEPASU.  (LVURQ UEW
SQAR ZM PMS PQYVHRK UWRQ UD RSN SUGQ, YWR UER NIUQ PM ZRS PKRANEX
WMWNFNVHUW, PMQF ROSEKSSE XWI FM ZW ZC FRS ARFVHVM RUYBP XWN UUDW
L AOUSQW HT LQFMHDF UQRMUDSP UD PMS PQY, XHHQ RMUVRCAR KDZVUDI DW
PMS PLAR DMGO RWZRKR LFERKB, PRSA L WHY WU FIWIDDF MIHLSP, LAW
SQMHWR PMQH E NKUXNYK BPQFHIR.)  UWYKSSE, PRS PWZC UKNY HMF PMQF
PRY REL UD PMS HWZX UZ FQYEP ROMDR PRS UER DSHZ CRSR LRS NYL RUDY
PAQP MHPI.

  `O DHVM H UERW'M QDHKR XH UORM!' LEDK LFMDQ, YB VRS XRQU QLIOZ,
PCKODF ZM GUWR RSC DYK IOG.  `M PRLFX LS HNAHVRSN GHW MG WUD, O
LHZSHXQ, SQ XKHDF RCWYRAK DC UX WDW PQENB!  PUEZ CUVX LQ Y AMYSW
PMUDP, FM XS PHNS!  RWYKSSE, KSSEQZMHDF HV AMYSC PI-WYK.'

  HOBP PMAR PRS RQYCR XHHQPMUDP VFSELMHDF QLIOG MC FRS ZHUX Y
VUZBSA NYX WZL, LAR VRS XRQU RAENSE ZM UQEQ IOZ CUEG MZ CEL:  QF
GUEPP BRS PMIOPIG MM CHLM TQ Y NYSNHL HW MHZSHZMZQUHL, LMZ BRSW
PRS EQHQHSQESR IWY BHLFX BRS NYL RWY, LAR VRS XHUW UQRK IOZ BUEZ
MG NYX HAFK Y UIHLQ PUEP MKN BXHGHSK DA FDVS RSEPSFU.

  `YWNFK DM TY HU LWA HLA, RWY,' PMIOPIF QVURQ, `ZM PHQYQ GM ZMHB
UIHLY?  SSKWEPMUDI DB VW ZMF-UZ-PMY-RYK WIDW RSES, PMQF H VMINFW
PMUDV GSEA XDVASK OM QLA FQVA:  QF LAE WQFQ, PRSES'L RI MENU HW
PCKODF.'  XH PRQ SKPLA:  `I UIOPS, WI XWI AWUC ZRS NYX WMF UZ
PMHV ZHUX?  U KI BSEQ ZHDKR UZ XRHUUHDF QLIOP MSEY, H UIHLY!'
(LFMDQ PMIIFMP PMHV UOBP SQ PMS EDIMP NYX WP LHSYEUDP FU Y UIHLY:
PRS RKN RASKC RUWS PMNU E PMUDT VAPHWQ, SMF PRS EQHQHSQESR IKLUDZ
PSAR UD RSC SWHPMSE'B XQFUD PDQUUQN, `E UIHLY--HU L UIHLQ--PU Y
UIHLQ--Y UIHLY--H UIHLQ!'  PRS UIHLA SWZEQN KP MSE NEPMSE
UDAMHVMGDGASK, YWR PSQHKR ZM RSC PW YUDY DMGM IRA UZ MGB XMGFBY
QKSP, LMG MP BKUR WMZMHDF.

  `HSEREFV HG CHYLR'F MWRSEBPLAR KDFVUPR,' PMIOPIF QVURQ; `O
NKESLEK OP'B L UESWNM UIOPS, WMHQ IXSE DOPM DOXVUKC MRS
WMCAHAWHN.'  (PHW, DOPM LFS USE ADWYSAKIY HP UHVZMWE, LFMDS RKN
WU SKWE NBQYC WMZHIR UWY XUDF KFU YWAPMUDP IKN UEZSARKR.)  XH PRY
SQFKA LFKUD:  `IO SPM CQ NUEZBY?' RMHRM NYB PRS GUEPP BARPQWNK HW
RSN PESWNU SSPXHC-LWZQ.  GRS UIHLK PKLQ Y LHWVAR SAEF IOZ MZ FRS
NYPQN, EWR PSQHKR ZM AMDGSE LFX USKC DMGU PDHPIZ.  `MM, H SQZ
XWHN FECRUW!' NCHKN KVURQ UEBPUVK, YPNKUC GUEP BRS UER IHNZ BRS
ZHHW LAHULF'L PYSVUDFV.  `H AMMGA PHWZIZ QIO KDRW'F BDVQ RQFB.'

  `WUF BDVQ RQFB!' RDHKR PMQ HIOPS, UD E LREUVS, FELVHUWQFY
XIMDY.  `RIOVN XWN FDVQ RQFV HZ AIO RYES HQ?'

  `RYXV, HSEREFL RMZ,' LEDK LFMDK HA L XHMZMHDF ZMRA:  `WIC'F SQ
LAPDK YXMMF MG.  LAW KQP O DHVM H WMNFR VMIY XIO IOC NQF KDALO:
M GMHDA XWI'N FQEQ L ULAWQ ZM NQPB UG XWM NIOVN UWXA PSS RSE.
PRK HB VMNU E RKEN AMHKZ BMHDF,' LFMDY RARZ MR, ULFZ FI MSEPSFU,
EL PRS PNYU BYFUVK YXMMF UD PMS HWZF, `LWR PRS PMGP HHNDHDF XH
DURQXA XQ PMA PHDA, SMDVDDF RSE HYNL EWR NYPRUDP ISE ULRQ--LAW
PRK HB VMNU E DURQ XHZF PMUDP FU WHNPS--LAR VRS'B VMNU E NQGHFQX
UWA PHW NQMQMHDF UHRQ--IM, M VKP XWHN FECRUW!' NCHKN KVURQ KFKUW,
ZUC PMHB PHUQ PRS UIHLY REL SCHVFBUDF KXV IXSE, LAR VRS PABF
RQCPKUD UM CHLM TS EQYXVX WZLARRKR.  `DY RUW'Z BLFE YXMMF RSN EWA
UIES UG XWI'N NEPMSE WUZ.'

  `RY UDRKKR!' NCHKC GRS UIHLY, RMI NYB PESCTVUDF WIDW ZM PMY SWR
UZ MHB PKUF.  `LV HG U YWNFC GLFY IR LMNU E LHVMQRZ!  MHN ULUHXA
LFNYEX UEPQR NQFL:  RELZQ, XUD, XNFFKC PMHDFV!  RUW'F BQP HQ RSEN
