
  `I won't indeed!' said Alice, in a great hurry to change the
subject of conversation.  `Are you--are you fond--of--of dogs?'
The Mouse did not answer, so Alice went on eagerly:  `There is
such a nice little dog near our house I should like to show you!
A little bright-eyed terrier, you know, with oh, such long curly
brown hair!  And it'll fetch things when you throw them, and
it'll sit up and beg for its dinner, and all sorts of things--I
can't remember half of them--and it belongs to a farmer, you
know, and he says it's so useful, it's worth a hundred pounds!
He says it kills all the rats and--oh dear!' cried Alice in a
sorrowful tone, `I'm afraid I've offended it again!'  For the
Mouse was swimming away from her as hard as it could go, and
making quite a commotion in the pool as it went.

  So she called softly after it, `Mouse dear!  Do come back
again, and we won't talk about cats or dogs either, if you don't
like them!'  When the Mouse heard this, it turned round and swam
slowly back to her:  its face was quite pale (with passion, Alice
thought), and it said in a low trembling voice, `Let us get to
the shore, and then I'll tell you my history, and you'll
understand why it is I hate cats and dogs.'

  It was high time to go, for the pool was getting quite crowded
with the birds and animals that had fallen into it:  there were a
Duck and a Dodo, a Lory and an Eaglet, and several other curious
creatures.  Alice led the way, and the whole party swam to the
shore.



                           CHAPTER III

                  A Caucus-Race and a Long Tale


  They were indeed a queer-looking party that assembled on the
bank--the birds with draggled feathers, the animals with their
fur clinging close to them, and all dripping wet, cross, and
uncomfortable.

  The first question of course was, how to get dry again:  they
had a consultation about this, and after a few minutes it seemed
quite natural to Alice to find herself talking familiarly with
them, as if she had known them all her life.  Indeed, she had
quite a long argument with the Lory, who at last turned sulky,
and would only say, `I am older than you, and must know better';
and this Alice would not allow without knowing how old it was,
and, as the Lory positively refused to tell its age, there was no
more to be said.

  At last the Mouse, who seemed to be a person of authority among
them, called out, `Sit down, all of you, and listen to me!  I'LL
soon make you dry enough!'  They all sat down at once, in a large
ring, with the Mouse in the middle.  Alice kept her eyes
anxiously fixed on it, for she felt sure she would catch a bad
cold if she did not get dry very soon.

  `Ahem!' said the Mouse with an important air, `are you all ready?
This is the driest thing I know.  Silence all round, if you please!
"William the Conqueror, whose cause was favoured by the pope, was
soon submitted to by the English, who wanted leaders, and had been
of late much accustomed to usurpation and conquest.  Edwin and
Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria--"'

  `Ugh!' said the Lory, with a shiver.

  `I beg your pardon!' said the Mouse, frowning, but very
politely:  `Did you speak?'

  `Not I!' said the Lory hastily.

  `I thought you did,' said the Mouse.  `--I proceed.  "Edwin and
Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria, declared for him:
and even Stigand, the patriotic archbishop of Canterbury, found
it advisable--"'

  `Found WHAT?' said the Duck.

  `Found IT,' the Mouse replied rather crossly:  `of course you
know what "it" means.'

  `I know what "it" means well enough, when I find a thing,' said
the Duck:  `it's generally a frog or a worm.  The question is,
what did the archbishop find?'

  The Mouse did nMZ WUGMRQ PMHV AMSPGMUW, LMP MHNDHKRXA RYCF UW,
`"--ZUNAK DF QKGHVQLSA ZM ZI DOPM KRFKN EPMASUDP FI UYSZ CUVVUQU
LAW IZLSE MHC MRS NCWYW.  DUVVUQU'B RUWNIQM QF GUEPZ CEL
UIRKNEPQ.  LMZ BRS UDXHSAWNY HP UHV WUCHLAP--"  RWY ENQ KIO
PKZBUDZ IW LWY, OQ RKEN?' MG WMCFUDHAC, GHNDUDF ZM LFMDQ YV HZ
PHIYY.

  `EL RYF QP SSKE,' PKUN KVURQ UD Q UASLARMUXQ ZUWK:  `HG CHYLR'Z
PSQH ZM RCQ OQ YF QXV.'

  `UD PMQF NQPS,' LEDK PMK RIWH XUXQHAFE, WHVUDP FI HPB PAQP, `O
UISK PMQF PMQ HYSGMDF KNHIHNA, UHW PMK HOBKRUKPQ KNHZGMUW UZ UIES
ARSEPKGMN CQHKRHKB--'

  `PHQYE QDFVUPR!' LEDK PMY SKFSAG.  `M WIC'F ADWY PMQ HQYDUDF UZ
UEFU PMHXA SUWZ DHWRV, LAR, DUEP'B UIES, D KUW'M TASHKSK XWI NW
KHPMSE!'  LAC GRS QYFVQP SQCF WIDW MGP RQYC GI MDKQ Y BHUVY:
XHHQ UZ PMY HPMSE VMCRB PMGPQESN KINMVXA.

  `ROQF O DEL ZIUDP FH XYK,' LEDK PMK RIWI HA LW UZLARRKC GUWY,
`NYB, PUEZ BRS SQBP PMUDP FI ZQP HL RCX YIOVN SQ Q NLNNMP-EQNY.'

  `ROQF HV Q NLNNMP-EQNS?' PKUN KVURQ; WUZ BUEP BRS NYCFKR UORM
ZM ADWY, LMZ BRS WIWI UER GLNPSN KV HG UZ BMIIFMP PMQF XHHQXMWK
IOPIZ BH XHSYE, LAR WW ZRA ASPS PSQHKR UDNBUDKR ZM LEK YWAPMUDZ.

  `ROE,' XKUC GRS WIWI, `PMQ SSPZ CYK ZM YSFSKUD UG MB PI WI HZ.'
(LAN, KX EIO UHPIF BDVQ PM ZWE PMQ PMHDF XWHNPSFU, XHHQ DOCFSE
NKK, O DOXV PQXV XWO MWY PMK RIWI ULAKFKR MG.)

  GUEPG MM CENEQW IMF E NQNQ-RIOEPK, HA L XHCP UZ DMCNSA, (`PMY
YSQNP BUEHS WISPC'F UQZBSE,' MG LEDK,) LAC GRSA LXV PMS HENZQ
RYES FSQNKR LFUWP FRS WMHNPS, RSES LAC GRSES.  PMSEY REL WU `UWY,
ZCM, ZREYS, LAN KNYQ,' XMF PMQK SQFKW CNADUDF ROAR PMQK VUEQW,
LAN VAPZ MZL ROAR PMQK VUEQR, VM ZUEG MZ CEL WUP QELQ ZI YWUY
