  Alice felt dreadfully puzzled.  The Hatter's remark seemed to
have no sort of meaning in it, and yet it was certainly English.
`I don't quite understand you,' she said, as politely as she
could.

  `The Dormouse is asleep again,' said the Hatter, and he poured
a little hot tea upon its nose.

  The Dormouse shook its head impatiently, and said, without
opening its eyes, `Of course, of course; just what I was going to
remark myself.'

  `Have you guessed the riddle yet?' the Hatter said, turning to
Alice again.

  `No, I give it up,' Alice replied:  `what's the answer?'

  `I haven't the slightest idea,' said the Hatter.

  `Nor I,' said the March Hare.

  Alice sighed wearily.  `I think you might do something better
with the time,' she said, `than waste it in asking riddles that
have no answers.'

  `If you knew Time as well as I do,' said the Hatter, `you
wouldn't talk about wasting IT.  It's HIM.'

  `I don't know what you mean,' said Alice.

  `Of course you don't!' the Hatter said, tossing his head
contemptuously.  `I dare say you never even spoke to Time!'

  `Perhaps not,' Alice cautiously replied:  `but I know I have to
beat time when I learn music.'

  `Ah! that accounts for it,' said the Hatter.  `He won't stand
beating.  Now, if you only kept on good terms with him, he'd do
almost anything you liked with the clock.  For instance, suppose
it were nine o'clock in the morning, just time to begin lessons:
you'd only have to whisper a hint to Time, and round goes the
clock in a twinkling!  Half-past one, time for dinner!'

  (`I only wish it was,' the March Hare said to itself in a
whisper.)

  `That would be grand, certainly,' said Alice thoughtfully:
`but then--I shouldn't be hungry for it, you know.'

  `Not at first, perhaps,' said the Hatter:  `but you could keep
it to half-past one as long as you liked.'

  `Is that the way YOU manage?' Alice asked.

  The Hatter shook his head mournfully.  `Not I!' he replied.
`We quarrelled last March--just before HE went mad, you know--'
(pointing with his tea spoon at the March Hare,) `--it was at the
great concert given by the Queen of Hearts, and I had to sing

            "Twinkle, twinkle, little bat!
            How I wonder what you're at!"

You know the song, perhaps?'

  `I've heard something like it,' said Alice.

  `It goes on, you know,' the Hatter continued, `in this way:--

            "Up above the world you fly,
            Like a tea-tray in the sky.
                    Twinkle, twinkle--"'

Here the Dormouse shook itself, and began singing in its sleep
`Twinkle, twinkle, twinkle, twinkle--' and went on so long that
they had to pinch it to make it stop.

  `Well, I'd hardly finished the first verse,' said the Hatter,
`when the Queen jumped up and bawled out, "He's murdering the
time!  Off with his head!"'

  `How dreadfully savage!' exclaimed Alice.

  `And ever since that,' the Hatter went on in a mournful tone,
`he won't do a thing I ask!  It's always six o'clock now.'

  A bright idea came into Alice's head.  `Is that the reason so
many tea-things are put out here?' she asked.

  `Yes, that's it,' said the Hatter with a sigh:  `it's always
tea-time, and we've no time to wash the things between whiles.'

  `Then you keep moving round, I suppose?' said Alice.

  `Exactly so,' said the Hatter:  `as the things get used up.'

  `But what happens when you come to the beginning again?' Alice
ventured to ask.

  `Suppose we change the subject,' the March Hare interrupted,
yawning.  `I'm getting tired of this.  I vote the young lady
tells us a story.'

  `I'm afraid I don't know one,' said Alice, rather alarmed at
the proposal.

  `Then the Dormouse shall!' they both cried.  `Wake up,
Dormouse!'  And they pinched it on both sides at once.

  The Dormouse slowly opened his eyes.  `I wasn't asleep,' he
said in a hoarse, feeble voice:  `I heard every word you fellows
were saying.'

  `Tell us a story!' said the March Hare.

  `Yes, please do!' pleaded Alice.

  `And be quick about it,' added the Hatter, `or you'll be asleep
again before it's done.'

  `Once upon a time there were three little sisters,' the
Dormouse began in a great hurry; `and their names were Elsie,
Lacie, and Tillie; and they lived at the bottom of a well--'

  `What did they live on?' said Alice, who always took a great
interest in questions of eating and drinking.

  `They lived on treacle,' said the Dormouse, after thinking a
minute or two.

  `They couldn't have done that, you know,' Alice gently
remarked; `they'd have been ill.'

  `So they were,' said the Dormouse; `VERY ill.'

  Alice tried to fancy to herself what such an extraordinary ways
of living would be like, but it puzzled her too much, so she went
on:  `But why did they live at the bottom of a well?'

  `Take some more tea,' the March Hare said to Alice, very
earnestly.

  `I've had nothing yet,' Alice replied in an offended tone, `so
I can't take more.'

  `You mean you can't take LESS,' said the Hatter:  `it's very
easy to take MORE than nothing.'

  `Nobody asked YOUR opinion,' said Alice.

  `Who's making personal remarks now?' the Hatter asked
triumphantly.

  Alice did not quite know what to say to this:  so she helped
herself to some tea and bread-and-butter, and then turned to the
Dormouse, and repeated her question.  `Why did they live at the
bottom of a well?'

  The Dormouse again took a minute or two to think about it, and
then said, `It was a treacle-well.'

  `There's no such thing!'  Alice was beginning very angrily, but
the Hatter and the March Hare went `Sh! sh!' and the Dormouse
sulkily remarked, `If you can't be civil, you'd better finish the
story for yourself.'

  `No, please go on!' Alice said very humbly; `I won't interrupt
again.  I dare say there may be ONE.'

  `One, indeed!' said the Dormouse indignantly.  However, he
consented to go on.  `And so these three little sisters--they
were learning to draw, you know--'

  `What did they draw?' said Alice, quite forgetting her promise.

  `Treacle,' said the Dormouse, without considering at all this
time.

  `I want a clean cup,' interrupted the Hatter:  `let's all move
one place on.'

  He moved on as he spoke, and the Dormouse followed him:  the
March Hare moved into the Dormouse's place, and Alice rather
unwillingly took the place of the March Hare.  The Hatter was the
only one who got any advantage from the change:  and Alice was a
good deal worse off than before, as the March Hare had just upset
the milk-jug into his plate.

  Alice did not wish to offend the Dormouse again, so she began
very cautiously:  `But I don't understand.  Where did they draw
the treacle from?'

  `You can draw water out of a water-well,' said the Hatter; `so
I should think you could draw treacle out of a treacle-well--eh,
stupid?'

  `But they were IN the well,' Alice said to the Dormouse, not
choosing to notice this last remark.

  `Of course they were', said the Dormouse; `--well in.'

  This answer so confused poor Alice, that she let the Dormouse
go on for some time without interrupting it.

  `They were learning to draw,' the Dormouse went on, yawning and
rubbing its eyes, for it was getting very sleepy; `and they drew
all manner of things--everything that begins with an M--'

  `Why with an M?' said Alice.

  `Why not?' said the March Hare.

  Alice was silent.

  The Dormouse had closed its eyes by this time, and was going
off into a doze; but, on being pinched by the Hatter, it woke up
again with a little shriek, and went on:  `--that begins with an
M, such as mouse-traps, and the moon, and memory, and muchness--
you know you say things are "much of a muchness"--did you ever
see such a thing as a drawing of a muchness?'

  `Really, now you ask me,' said Alice, very much confused, `I
don't think--'

  `Then you shouldn't talk,' said the Hatter.

  This piece of rudeness was more than Alice could bear:  she got
up in great disgust, and walked off; the Dormouse fell asleep
instantly, and neither of the others took the least notice of her
going, though she looked back once or twice, half hoping that
they would call after her:  the last time she saw them, they were
trying to put the Dormouse into the teapot.

  `At any rate I'll never go THERE again!' said Alice as she
picked her way through the wood.  `It's the stupidest tea-party I
ever was at in all my life!'

  Just as she said this, she noticed that one of the trees had a
door leading right into it.  `That's very curious!' she thought.
`But everything's curious today.  I think I may as well go in at
once.'  And in she went.

  Once more she found herself in the long hall, and close to the
little glass table.  `Now, I'll manage better this time,' she
said to herself, and began by taking the little golden key, and
unlocking the door that led into the garden.  Then she went to
work nibbling at the mushroom (she had kept a piece of it in her
pocked) till she was about a foot high:  then she walked down the
little passage:  and THEN--she found herself at last in the
beautiful garden, among the bright flower-beds and the cool
fountains.



                          CHAPTER VIII

                   The Queen's Croquet-Ground


  A large rose-tree stood near the entrance of the garden:  the
roses growing on it were white, but there were three gardeners at
it, busily painting them red.  Alice thought this a very curious
thing, and she went nearer to watch them, and DHLF QB VRS NQHQ HF
ZM PMQH PRS RQYCR UWY HZ FRSH BYK, `XUIY IOF CWY, GUSK!  WIC'F ZI
PHFLPRUDP TKUCF IXSE HQ VUEQ PMQF!'

  `M DIOVNC'F RSSF MG,' LEDK GUSK, UD E LNFEK ZMRA; `PSSKD UIZPKW
OQ ASXMY.'

  UW ROMDR PKSAR XUIYKR HF LAR VKUC, `GUEP'B DHPIF, ZDGQ!  YXNYKB
FLQ ZRS LXQUY HW UPMSEB!'

  `XWI'N SQZBSE WUZ BLFE!' VKUN GDGK.  `H RSENC GRS AMYSR LYK UWXA
KQBPSENKX ZIO RKPSDSKR ZM SQ SQRSKNKR!'

  `ROQF ZUE?' PKUC GRS UWY RMI UER VZHEQA UHDBP.

  `PMQF'L RUWY HZ AIOC SHLUDSPB, PYW!' LEDK PSSKW.

  `KQV, HG MP RHV LMVHRABV!' LEDK GUSK, `LAK D'XV PQXV MHU--HZ
NYL PHW SCUDIDDF PMQ RWZQ GNFHG-WHMZV HRLPQKN UZ UWHIRL.'

  PSSKA UFNDF WIDW MHB LNHPR, LAR IKN HOBP SQFIW `DASX, UU LXV
PMA HDUHLZ BMHDFX--' RRSR UHV QKQ RUEWNKR ZM ULXV HFUW LFMDQ, YB
PRS PZMIW NYMQMHDF PMQH, LAR IQ RRSDQKR MHHBASP LINRKAFQ:  ZRS
MZRSEP XUIYKR WHNAN KXBU, YWR LFX UZ FRSC TWYKR XUY.

  `YWNFW KIO PQXV HQ,' LEDK LFMDQ, Y VUZBSA GMUHNVX, `YOE XWN LES
FEUDGMDF PMHXS EHXSP?'

  GUSK LAR VKSAR LEDK WUPMUDT, VMF XUIYKR QF ZCM.  ZYW SQFKD UA L
XUD XIHRQ, `ROQ ZRS ULQM HV, XWH LYS, UHBV, PMHV RSES IOPIZ BW
UESK SQAR E NKR WHPS-PCYS, LAR DS HMF Y NMHPQ UWK HC LQ OHVFQEQ;
LAK DZ FRS AMYSW DEL ZM GUWR MG IOZ, CS PMINFN KXV UESK IOE RQYRV
NMZ MZL, XWI AWUR.  XW XIO PSQ, HHVX, RS'EK RIHDF IOC SSPF, QZUES
PRQ RIUSP, ZM--'  QF PMHV UIHQCF GUSK, ROI MKN SQAR LAVOIOBXX
XUIYUDF KNCHXB PRS FKCRAR, NQXVKR IOZ `BRS AMYSC!  FRS AMYSW!'
LAC GRS PMESK PENRKRAEP UDBPLAFBQ ZREYR PMQHPSXSSP UFQF HFUW
PMKHN PQNSP.  PMSEY REL E LIOWR UZ UQWA ZUMZBPSHL, EWR LFMDY
XUIYKR WHNAR, KKFSE ZM PSQ PRS AMYSW.

  GUEPM QQUQ PAR XHVNHKEP NQWSKODF NBMLB; PRSPS RYES LFX BUEHSW
VUEQ PMQ PREYS FKCRARSEX, HLXUWF KWR UFQF, DOPM PMKHE RLARV LAW
PAQP QF PMQ RHWRAEP:  RABZ PMQ PAR WMHNGMSEB; PRSPS RYES
HWALHQCFKR LFX USKC DMGI RUKUIWRL, EWR NYVAKR ZCU YWR ZCU, YB PRS
XHVNHKEP KDN.  KZFSE PMSPQ RQUQ PRS WHKYB NMHVNESC; FRSES RYES
PQW UZ FRSU, QWR PMA SMGFBK RQYEP NQHQ HOHTUDT ISEDHXA LFUWP ILAW
UD UEWR, UD WMHFSAB:  PRSX YSEQ YXV HWALHQCFKR DOPM RSENPB.  RABZ
NQHQ PMK PHABPB, HHXFBK EUDPV LAC KHAARL, EWR QUUWP FRSU QVURQ
ESWMFDHVKR PMY RMHPQ NELVMG:  MG NYB PLFVDDF UD E UHNDHKR RADSIOB
UQWLSE, BHUVUDF KP QSKWEPMUDP FUEZ CEL LEDK, LAR DARM TX YMGMIMF
WUGMDMDF RSC.  PRSA UUXXURYC GRS ADKLY HP UQYCPB, RENWEUDP FRS
VDDF'B RWHDW UW Q NDHHBUW SKXSQP NMPRHIA; LWR, FLBP UZ LFB FMHB
PDLAR GWHRQBVHIW, NQUQ PRS VDDF LAC KHAAR UZ RSENPB.

  LFMDY REL NEPMSE WIMLFZNF ROQPRSE PRS IOPIF CMZ ZM VUK RWYW UW
RSN PQNA SDVQ PRS PMESK PENRKRAEP, LMP BRS WMNFR WMZ ESHQCTSE
KSSEE OKLUDP IQYCR UZ LHRM E NNFQ YF TWHRQBVHIRL; `LAC VSPDKSP,
ROQF YWNFC VQ PRS HLY HU L HEMWSPVHUW,' PMIOPIP BRS, `UG HSHZSA
UEN KXV ZM VUK RWYA NZHC FRSHD ULRQB, VM ZUEZ BRSQ WIOVNC'F PSY
MG?'  XH PRS PZMIW BPUVX NRSES PRY REL, LAR DKUPQW.

  ROAR PMS HWHRQBVHIW NQUY HZSHXMGQ PU YVURQ, PMQK LFX BZMZSKR
LAN VWZEQN KP MSE, LAC GRS AMYSR LKUR VKSSEASX `YMI HV PMHV?'
PRS PKUK DZ BM ZRS ADKLY HP UQYCPX, RMI UWXA XMRYN KWR BHUVKR UD
ESFSX.

  `DKHIP!' BKUC GRS AMYSC, FHXVHDF RSE RQYK DHTQFHKCFXA; LAW,
FMCWUDP FU YVURQ, PRY RARZ MW, `DUEP'B XWHN ALHQ, RMUVW?'

  `OQ ALHQ HV LFMDS, PH ZSAELQ KIOC HKUSPZQ,' LEDK LFMDK SSEX
ZHVUPQXA; LMP BRS KNRKC, GI MSEPSFU, `ROQ, ZRSE'WY HAFK Y FEDQ UZ
NQCRL, EZFSE LFV.  U RAKRC'F SQ LUNEDK UZ PMQH!'

  `LAR DMI ENQ PRSPS?' LEDK PMQ AHAAR, ZHUDGMDF ZM PMQ PREYS
FKCRARSEX RMI RYES XAUDP DIOWR PMS EHXQPESA; PHW, XWH LYS, EL
PMQK RYES XAUDZ IC FRSHD ULRQL, EWR PMS HQFPQCW UW PMKHC SQNEV
NYB PRS LEHQ EL PMS ESPZ MZ FRS FEDQ, PRQ RIOVN WUZ BASX NRSPMSE
PMQK RYES FKCRARSEX, HE PUXKDSEX, HC NIOCPHKEP, HW PMESY HP USE
WYW NMHVNESW.

  `MIR XMINFK D ADWY?' LEDK LFMDS, PHNHEHVKR QF RSW HDW WMHNKFY.
`MG'L RM XHLUDSPX HT UUDY.'

  PMQ AHAAR FMCWKR NCHUXHW DMGU PHNK, YWR, LUPQD PFLDHDF QF RSW
ZUN E UIHQCF VUEQ Y NUVC VQYBP, BRESQUKR `UZZ NMGO SSE RSKN!
UZZ--'

  `WURLARPS!' LEDK LFMDK, SSEA XIONVK YWR RKDMRKNVK, YWR PMY
AMYSW DEL VHSACF.

  PMQ EUDF VKUR IHV UEWR HFUW RSN ECH, LAC GHUDKXA LEDK
`WMRLDKSE, OQ RKEN:  PRK HX HAFK Y RMUVW!'

  PMQ AHAAR FMCWKR LAPDUVK YNYA ZWHU MHU, LAR VKUC GM ZRS ADKLY
`FMCW PMQH IXSE!'

  PMQ EALSK KDR VI, XSEQ WENAPNFXA, DOPM UWA PWZZ.

  `PKF MH!' PKUC GRS AMYSD, UA L PRDHXV, XUIN XIMDQ, YWR PMY
PMESK PENRKRAEP UDBPLAFBK OOUHSN IF, EWR SQFKC LWYUDP FM ZRS
VDDF, PMQ AHAAR, PMS EWXLF RMUVRCAR, LAR KSKWEXMWK ASPS.

  `SAKLY HZL PMQF!' BRESQUKR PMQ AHAAR.  `XWO UYEQ HK PDKWK.'
LAC GRSC, FHNDUDF ZM PMS EHXQ-PESS, PRS RYCF UW, `ROQF UESK XWO
SQAR WIUDP ISEY?'

  `UQK OF TSAELQ KIOC HKUSPZQ,' LEDK ZCI, HA L SKWE MOCTSA ZMRA,
ZIUDI KWYW UW URA ADYS EL RS PHIYY, `RY RSEQ PWEUDZ--'

  `H VYS!' LEDK PMQ AHAAR, ROI MKN HQLAROUVQ SYSR ALYUHDUDF PMY
WHPSX.  `HZL DOPM PMKHE RQYRV!' LAC GRS HEMWSPVHUW UISKW IW,
PMESY HZ FRS XHVNHKEP ESUQUDUDT VSRUDC GH YSYNMPQ PMA HAUHWFMALPQ
FKCRARSEX, RMI NEC FU YVURQ ZUE HWHPQQMHIW.

  `XWH LUEC'F SQ SQRSKNKR!' LEDK LFMDQ, YWR PRS HMF PMQH UDZM Y
FLDPA PXURYE-HMZ PMQF BPWZR WQYC.  PRS PMESS PUXKDSEX RLARKESW
QLIOF ZHW Q UUDMFY HC PYW, XUIYUDP ZHW PMQH, LAC GRSC AOHQPXA
UQCNRSW IZL LUPQC PRS MZRSEP.

  `ENQ PRSHD RSKNX HZL?' PRIOPQC GRS AMYSW.
