  `Their heads are gone, if it please your Majesty!' the soldiers
shouted in reply.

  `That's right!' shouted the Queen.  `Can you play croquet?'

  The soldiers were silent, and looked at Alice, as the question
was evidently meant for her.

  `Yes!' shouted Alice.

  `Come on, then!' roared the Queen, and Alice joined the
procession, wondering very much what would happen next.

  `It's--it's a very fine day!' said a timid voice at her side.
She was walking by the White Rabbit, who was peeping anxiously
into her face.

  `Very,' said Alice:  `--where's the Duchess?'

  `Hush!  Hush!' said the Rabbit in a low, hurried tone.  He
looked anxiously over his shoulder as he spoke, and then raised
himself upon tiptoe, put his mouth close to her ear, and
whispered `She's under sentence of execution.'

  `What for?' said Alice.

  `Did you say "What a pity!"?' the Rabbit asked.

  `No, I didn't,' said Alice:  `I don't think it's at all a pity.
I said "What for?"'

  `She boxed the Queen's ears--' the Rabbit began.  Alice gave a
little scream of laughter.  `Oh, hush!' the Rabbit whispered in a
frightened tone.  `The Queen will hear you!  You see, she came
rather late, and the Queen said--'

  `Get to your places!' shouted the Queen in a voice of thunder,
and people began running about in all directions, tumbling up
against each other; however, they got settled down in a minute or
two, and the game began.  Alice thought she had never seen such a
curious croquet-ground in her life; it was all ridges and
furrows; the balls were live hedgehogs, the mallets live
flamingoes, and the soldiers had to double themselves up and to
stand on their hands and feet, to make the arches.

  The chief difficulty Alice found at first was in managing her
flamingo:  she succeeded in getting its body tucked away,
comfortably enough, under her arm, with its legs hanging down,
but generally, just as she had got its neck nicely straightened
out, and was going to give the hedgehog a blow with its head, it
WOULD twist itself round and look up in her face, with such a
puzzled expression that she could not help bursting out laughing:
and when she had got its head down, and was going to begin again,
it was very provoking to find that the hedgehog had unrolled
itself, and was in the act of crawling away:  besides all this,
there was generally a ridge or furrow in the way wherever she
wanted to send the hedgehog to, and, as the doubled-up soldiers
were always getting up and walking off to other parts of the
ground, Alice soon came to the conclusion that it was a very
difficult game indeed.

  The players all played at once without waiting for turns,
quarrelling all the while, and fighting for the hedgehogs; and in
a very short time the Queen was in a furious passion, and went
stamping about, and shouting `Off with his head!' or `Off with
her head!' about once in a minute.

  Alice began to feel very uneasy:  to be sure, she had not as
yet had any dispute with the Queen, but she knew that it might
happen any minute, `and then,' thought she, `what would become of
me?  They're dreadfully fond of beheading people here; the great
wonder is, that there's any one left alive!'

  She was looking about for some way of escape, and wondering
whether she could get away without being seen, when she noticed a
curious appearance in the air:  it puzzled her very much at
first, but, after watching it a minute or two, she made it out to
be a grin, and she said to herself `It's the Cheshire Cat:  now I
shall have somebody to talk to.'

  `How are you getting on?' said the Cat, as soon as there was
mouth enough for it to speak with.

  Alice waited till the eyes appeared, and then nodded.  `It's no
use speaking to it,' she thought, `till its ears have come, or at
least one of them.'  In another minute the whole head appeared,
and then Alice put down her flamingo, and began an account of the
game, feeling very glad she had someone to listen to her.  The
Cat seemed to think that there was enough of it now in sight, and
no more of it appeared.

  `I don't think they play at all fairly,' Alice began, in rather
a complaining tone, `and they all quarrel so dreadfully one can't
hear oneself speak--and they don't seem to have any rules in
particular; at least, if there are, nobody attends to them--and
you've no idea how confusing it is all the things being alive;
for instance, there's the arch I've got to go through next
walking about at the other end of the ground--and I should have
croqueted the Queen's hedgehog just now, only it ran away when it
saw mine coming!'

  `How do you like the Queen?' said the Cat in a low voice.

  `Not at all,' said Alice:  `she's so extremely--'  Just then
she noticed that the Queen was close behind her, listening:  so
she went on, `--likely to win, that it's hardly worth while
finishing the game.'

  The Queen smiled and passed on.

  `Who ARE you talking to?' said the King, going up to Alice, and
looking at the Cat's head with great curiosity.

  `It's a friend of mine--a Cheshire Cat,' said Alice:  `allow me
to introduce it.'

  `I don't like the look of it at all,' said the King:  `however,
it may kiss my hand if it likes.'

  `I'd rather not,' the Cat remarked.

  `Don't be impertinent,' said the King, `and don't look at me
like that!'  He got behind Alice as he spoke.

  `A cat may look at a king,' said Alice.  `I've read that in
some book, but I don't remember where.'

  `Well, it must be removed,' said the King very decidedly, and
he called the Queen, who was passing at the moment, `My dear!  I
wish you would have this cat removed!'

  The Queen had only one way of settling all difficulties, great
or small.  `Off with his head!' she said, without even looking
round.

  `I'll fetch the executioner myself,' said the King eagerly, and
he hurried off.

  Alice thought she might as well go back, and see how the game
was going on, as she heard the Queen's voice in the distance,
screaming with passion.  She had already heard her sentence three
of the players to be executed for having missed their turns, and
she did not like the look of things at all, as the game was in
such confusion that she never knew whether it was her turn or
not.  So she went in search of her hedgehog.

  The hedgehog was engaged in a fight with another hedgehog,
which seemed to Alice an excellent opportunity for croqueting one
of them with the other:  the only difficulty was, that her
flamingo was gone across to the other side of the garden, where
Alice could see it trying in a helpless sort of way to fly up
into a tree.

  By the time she had caught the flamingo and brought it back,
the fight was over, and both the hedgehogs were out of sight:
`but it doesn't matter much,' thought Alice, `as all the arches
are gone from this side of the ground.'  So she tucked it away
under her arm, that it might not escape again, and went back for
a little more conversation with her friend.

  When she got back to the Cheshire Cat, she was surprised to
find quite a large crowd collected round it:  there was a dispute
going on between the executioner, the King, and the Queen, who
were all talking at once, while all the rest were quite silent,
and looked very uncomfortable.

  The moment Alice appeared, she was appealed to by all three to
settle the question, and they repeated their arguments to her,
though, as they all spoke at once, she found it very hard indeed
to make out exactly what they said.

  The executioner's argument was, that you couldn't cut off a
head unless there was a body to cut it off from:  that he had
never had to do such a thing before, and he wasn't going to begin
at HIS time of life.

  The King's argument was, that anything that had a head could be
beheaded, and that you weren't to talk nonsense.

  The Queen's argument was, that if something wasn't done about
it in less than no time she'd have everybody executed, all round.
(It was this last remark that had made the whole party look so
grave and anxious.)

  Alice could think of nothing else to say but `It belongs to the
Duchess:  you'd better ask HER about it.'

  `She's in prison,' the Queen said to the executioner:  `fetch
her here.'  And the executioner went off like an arrow.

   The Cat's head began fading away the moment he was gone, and,
by the time he had come back with the Dutchess, it had entirely
disappeared; so the King and the executioner ran wildly up and
down looking for it, while the rest of the party went back to the game.



                           CHAPTER IX

                     The Mock Turtle's Story


  `You can't think how glad I am to see you again, you dear old
thing!' said the Duchess, as she tucked her arm affectionately
into Alice's, and they walked off together.

  Alice was very glad to find her in such a pleasant temper, and
thought to herself that perhaps it was only the pepper that had
made her so savage when they met in the kitchen.

  `When I'M a Duchess,' she said to herself, (not in a very
hopeful tone though), `I won't have any pepper in my kitchen AT
ALL.  Soup does very well without--Maybe it's always pepper that
makes people hot-tempered,' she went on, very much pleased at
having found out a new kind of rule, `and vinegar that makes them
sour--and camomile that makes them bitter--and--and barley-sugar
and such things that make children sweet-tempered.  I only wish
people knew that:  then they wouldn't be so stingy about it, you
know--'

  She had quite forgotten the Duchess by this time, and was a
little startled when she heard her voice close to her ear.
`You're thinking about something, my dear, and that makes you
forget to talk.  I can't tell you just now what the moral of that
is, but I shall remember it in a bit.'

  `Perhaps it hasn't one,' Alice ventured to remark.

  `Tut, tut, child!' said the Duchess.  `Everything's got a
moral, if only you can find it.'  And she squeezed herself up
closer to Alice's side as she spoke.

  Alice did not much like keeping so close to her:  first,
because the Duchess was VERY ugly; and secondly, because she was
exactly the right height to rest her chin upon Alice's shoulder,
and it was an uncomfortably sharp chin.  However, she did not
like to be rude, so she bore it as well as she could.

  `The game's going on rather better now,' she said, by way of
keeping up the conversation a little.

  `'Tis so,' said the Duchess:  `and the moral of that is--"Oh,
'tis love, 'tis love, that makes the world go round!"'

  `Somebody said,' Alice whispered, `that it's done by everybody
minding their own business!'

  `Ah, well!  It means much the same thing,' said the Duchess,
digging her sharp little chin into Alice's shoulder as she added,
`and the moral of THAT is--"TaEQ RENY HZ FRS PSRLQ, YWR PMY
XHNARV DOXV FQEQ NQES UZ PMQHPSXSSP."'

  `MIN ZUWR VRS HV UZ GUWRUDT IHWLFV HC FMHDFL!' EVURQ PMIOPIZ BW
RSEPASZ.

  `D KENS PYK XWH'NY RUWRKDHDF ROK O WIC'F FHM CK YCH WHNAW KIOW
NYHVZ,' BRS NIRMSPB VKUN KZFSE E FLNPS:  `PMS EQYXHD UB, PUEG M'O
WIMLFZNF QLIOZ BRS PQHTSE UZ XWHN UFQUUDZI.  PRLFV U PCQ ZRS
YSHSDHHQCF?'

  `RS UHPIM TMGQ,' YVURQ NQMFHIHLXA ESFSHKR, WMZ PAASUDF KF QXV
LAVOIOB PI MKLQ PRS YSHSDHHQCF PCHKW.

  `SKWE PCHA,' LEDK PMK RMNRSBV:  `UFQUUDZISP LAC IHLFQCR XMPM
VMPQ.  LAC GRS UINEX UZ FUEG MB--"LHDRV UZ L UQYPMSE UFMWY
ZMPKPMSE."'

  `UWXA UOBPENK DLR'F Q VMCR,' LFMDS EQHENEQW.

  `DHPIF, QL HLHLF,' LEDK PMK RMNRSBV:  `ROQF Q NSAEN NYX ZIO
UESK UZ FHZBUDP FMHDFB!'

  `MG'L E UHRANEV, U PMUDE,' VKUN KVURQ.

  `UZ WMHNPS MG HV,' LEDK PMK RMNRSBV, ROH XYSHQR CQYWK ZM KFESY
ZM KSSEQZMHDF PMQF LFMDS PKUC; `GRSES'L E FLDPQ HHLFQCR-UHRA RAEN
RSES.  LAC GRS UINEX UZ FUEG MB--"PRS UIES PMSEK HX HT UUDQ, PRS
SABV PMSEK HX HZ AIOEP."'

  `IM, D VWUR!' YBWFLHUKR LFMDY, RMI UER WMZ QFPQWRKR ZM PMHV
FLBP ESUQDE, `MG'L E SKPKFQLXK.  HG CHYLR'F BWZA VDVY HRA, LMG MZ
HV.'

  `M KOHPQ KFESY RMGO EIO,' LEDK PMK RMNRSBV; `LAC GRS UINEX UZ
PMQF HV--"SQ ROQF XWO NIOVN PSQH ZM SQ"--HW UG XWI'N VUEQ MG FHZ
UIES VHHTXA--"RASKD HUQIDRA XWHNPSFU WUZ BM XY HPMSEDOPS PMLA
ROQF MG UHPIF QZSQYC PW ZPMSEB PUEZ CUEZ QIO RYES HW UHPIP MKLY
SQAR NYL RMZ MZRSCDHVQ PUEW DUEZ QIO UEC VYSW DIOVN UESK EFHSENKR
ZM PMQH ZM SQ MZRSCDHVY."'

  `M GMHDA H VMINFN IWRSEBPLAC GUEM TQPPQN,' EVURQ LEDK SKWE
ZHVUPQXA, `UG H MKN MG DCMGPQW RWYC:  LMF M DLA'M BOHPQ ZUXVWY MG
EL XWH LYK MG.'

  `PMQF'L RMZMHDF ZM ROQF M DIOVN LEK OG U RMHXQ,' PRS NIRMSPB
ESFSHKK, DA L FSQYPSC GUWY.

  `HEYK WIC'F PCIOLXQ KIOEPASZ FH XYK MG LAA XUWPKC PUEC FUEZ,'
LEDK LFMDY.

  `IM, WIC'F FQVA QLIOZ BWHMLSA!' LEDK PMK RMNRSBV.  `H UYEQ KIO
E FESPSCF UZ KSSEQZMHDF D'GS PKUN KX EQP.'

  `Q NRSEF XHCP UZ HESPARZ!' BMIIFMP LFMDK.  `H'I TFLC GRSK WUW'Z
IDSK VMCPIRYK HESPARPB VUEQ PMQF!'  LMP BRS KDR WMZ SKCFHNQ PW
LEK OZ MMF XUIN.

  `PMUDVDDF KFKUC?' FRS NIRMSPL EVEKR, DOPM LAMZRSC RDI UZ RSW
PRENF SMGFBQ RMHW.

  `D'GQ Y DHPIZ BM ZMHDA,' LEDK LFMDS PUEEHXA, ZUE PRS NYB
SQIDWLUDP FU ZYSF L VUZBSA YWWSHKW.

  `HOBP QLIOF QB HMNR EDIMP,' LEDK PMK RMNRSBV, `EL GHPV UESK ZM
UFK; YWR PMQ H--'

  LMP MSEQ, PU YVURQ'V PESQF LHEHDHPS, PMK RMNRSBV'B SIHRQ KDKR
YNYK, KSAR UD PMQ HDKNVY HP USE ULXIHNMGY RHWC `IHWLF,' LAC GRS
ENC MUEZ CEL VUDAKR UDZM RSEP SQFKC FM ZESCTSA.  LFMDA SWZEQN IZ,
LAC GRSES BPWZC GRS AMYSD UA UWHCF UZ PMQH, DOPM RSN ECHL PUXRKW,
PNWYDUDF VUEQ Q FMOWRSEBPHWO.

  `L UUDK RYK, XWHN UQHKBPQ!' ZRS NIRMSPB LKPLA UD L FWY, RYYE
XIMDY.

  `WUD, O IDSK XWN UKUC DENDUDF,' PRIOPQC GRS AMYSR, LFQHTUDZ IW
PMK PWHNAN KB VRS PHIYY; `SMGRSW EIO HW XWHN RSKN UOBP SQ UZZ,
LAC GUEG MA LXMMF UEFU WU GMHQ!  FQEQ XWHN RMIHRQ!'

  PMK RMNRSBV ZMIY RSC NMIMDQ, YWR NYV PUWK HA L UIHQCF.

  `SAP'B ZI UW DOPM PMK PQUQ,' PRS AMYSR LKUC GU YVURQ; LAN KVURQ
NYB PWZ UORM PNDIMPARKR ZM LEK Y YWCR, LMP BXUNXA ZUXXURYR ISE
LQDQ ZM PMQ RWHAMQP-PDIOWR.

  PMY HPMSE FISPPB UEC GYEAR KNLKCFKFY HZ FRS AMYSR'L QLPSWNY,
LAR DSES ESPGMDF UD PMS PUERK:  MIRYSKC, PRS UIHQCF PMQK LER OSE,
PMQK MOWSHKC VQNQ GM ZRS FKHQ, PMQ AHAAR HQESXA ESUQDEUDP FUEF Q
UIHQCF'V RASYK YWNFR NHXZ BRSC MRSHD VUSKB.

  LFB FRS GMHQ PMQK RYES FSYKUDP FRS AMYSW LKSSE SAZF UZZ
AMENESXVUDZ DMGM PRS MZRSE HFLKQEP, LAR VMIMFUDZ `IZL DOPM MHB
RSKN!' HW `UZZ NMGO SSE RSKN!'  PMHXY RMIH BRS PSCFARRQR DSEY
FQEQD UCFM WHLZMWK XQ PMS PUXKDSEX, RMI UZ WMHNPS UEC GU XQYSK
UZT LKHDF ENRMSP ZM WI PMHV, XH PMQF XQ PMY SWR UZ UEFU LA MIHN
HW XH PMSEY RSEA RU YCNRSB XAPF, QWR LFB FRS FSYKSEP, SBWSHZ BRS
VDDF, PMQ AHAAR, LAN KVURQ, RYES UD NMBPIWK YWR NARKE PARPQWNY HZ
YSQRMFHIW.

  PMAR PMQ AHAAR SAZF UZT, AOHPQ IOZ MT LESQFU, EWR LEDK ZM
LFMDS, `RKLQ KIO PSAR PMQ HMWQ GHNFBQ KQP?'

  `WU,' LEDK LFMDK.  `H WIC'F KSAR ADWY ROQF Q UMWQ GHNFBK HB.'

  `MG'B PRS PMUDT IMWQ GHNFBS PIOG HB HKNA PWHH,' BKUC GRS AMYSW.

  `U DKSSE LEY WRA, HW RSENW IZ URA,' LEDK LFMDY.

  `WMHQ UW, PMAR,' LEDK PMQ AHAAR, `LAR IS PUEXV PQXV XWO MHV
MHBPHWX,'

  EL PMQK NYVAKR UZZ FIZQPRSN, EVURQ RSENC GRS VDDF LEK OA L XUY
XIMDQ, PM ZRS WMHTLAK ZARSELFXA, `XWN LES LFS FENWIRAR.'  `NIUY,
PMQF'L E ZIIW PMUDP!' VRS LEDK ZM RSEPASZ, LHW PRS RKN PABF AMMGY
NAUEZSK YZ BRS ANCTSE UZ YSQRMFHIRL PMQ AHAAR UEW ICRSEKR.

  PMQK SKWE XHUW NQHQ HFUW K FWEHRUW, XAUDP ZELF QBXYSG HC FRS
LHD.  (UZ AIO WIC'F ADWY ROQF K FWEHRUW HV, XUIY QF PMS HMDFMES.)
`HF, FLOX PMUDP!' VKUC GRS AMYSA, `LWR FQEQ PMHV XWNAF VKNQ ZW
PSQ PRS UIDQ FMCPSA, LAC GI MQYE RHV MHBPHWK.  O UOBP ZI LQDQ LAW
PSQ YZFSE XHHQ YSQRMFHIRL H MKLY HCRSEKR'; LAR VRS NYVAKR UZZ,
SAKLUDF KVURQ LFUWY RMGM PRS PDEZMIA.  LVURQ KDR WMZ AMMGA SDVY
PMA SWZY IZ FRS NCQYFMES, LMZ MC FRS ROUXS PRS PMIOPIG MZ CIOVN
SQ AMMGQ YB VLUQ PH XFQX YMGM HF QB PI ZU YZFSE PMQF LELKPK
AMYSR:  LH XRS NYMGKR.

  PMK PWEHRUW LEF MF EWR NHLVKR MGP SKQB:  PRSD UZ CQFRMKR PMY
AMYSC FUVX BRS NYX HMF UZ VHPIZ:  BRSD UM QMODQSAR.  `DUEF ZNA!'
LEDK PMK PWEHRUW, UEFU ZM MGPSFU, UEFU ZM LFMDY.

  `ROQF HV PMA PNA?' LEDK LFMDY.

  `ROE, XRS,' LEDK PMK PWEHRUW.  `MG'L EXV RSN PLAWQ, PMQF:  PMQK
RASKE SSYNMPQL RMXIWX, ZIO ADWY.  WMHQ UW!'

  `KSSEQXIWE XYKB "RIUY HR!" USEQ,' PMIIFMP LFMDQ, YB VRS RYCF
BXWYXA LUPQD HG:  `M RASKC DEL XH HWRKESN KXMMF UD LFB UA XUGY,
RASKW!'

  PMQK UER WMZ ZIRA ULC SAPHWQ PRSE XYN PMQ HMWQ GHNFBK HC FRS
KDBPLARQ, VHZBUDP VKN LAN VUWASX WA L VUZBSA SAKIY HP NMWE, YWR,
EL PMQK NQHQ RAENSE, LFMDQ RIOVN RSEN MHH BDIMHDF EL UG MHP RQYCP
YWNFC VESYE.  PRS HMGHKR IHU RKSHXA.  `ROQF HV MHB VHWWHR?' XRS
ELEQC GRS PDEZMIA, LWR PMK PWEHRUW LAXRSEKR, SKWE RAENXA UD PMY
LEHQ YWCRL EB LAPHWK, `HP'B LFS UHV ULWNQ, ZUEP:  MS RELC'F ZIZ
WU XHWSWY, XWI AWUD.  NIUY HW!'

