large eyes full of tears, but said nothing.

  `This here young lady,' said the Gryphon, `she wants for to
know your history, she do.'

  `I'll tell it her,' said the Mock Turtle in a deep, hollow
tone:  `sit down, both of you, and don't speak a word till I've
finished.'

  So they sat down, and nobody spoke for some minutes.  Alice
thought to herself, `I don't see how he can EVEN finish, if he
doesn't begin.'  But she waited patiently.

  `Once,' said the Mock Turtle at last, with a deep sigh, `I was
a real Turtle.'

  These words were followed by a very long silence, broken only
by an occasional exclamation of `Hjckrrh!' from the Gryphon, and
the constant heavy sobbing of the Mock Turtle.  Alice was very
nearly getting up and saying, `Thank you, sir, for your
interesting story,' but she could not help thinking there MUST be
more to come, so she sat still and said nothing.

  `When we were little,' the Mock Turtle went on at last, more
calmly, though still sobbing a little now and then, `we went to
school in the sea.  The master was an old Turtle--we used to call
him Tortoise--'

  `Why did you call him Tortoise, if he wasn't one?' Alice asked.

  `We called him Tortoise because he taught us,' said the Mock
Turtle angrily:  `really you are very dull!'

  `You ought to be ashamed of yourself for asking such a simple
question,' added the Gryphon; and then they both sat silent and
looked at poor Alice, who felt ready to sink into the earth.  At
last the Gryphon said to the Mock Turtle, `Drive on, old fellow!
Don't be all day about it!' and he went on in these words:

  `Yes, we went to school in the sea, though you mayn't believe
it--'

  `I never said I didn't!' interrupted Alice.

  `You did,' said the Mock Turtle.

  `Hold your tongue!' added the Gryphon, before Alice could speak
again.  The Mock Turtle went on.

  `We had the best of educations--in fact, we went to school
every day--'

  `I'VE been to a day-school, too,' said Alice; `you needn't be
so proud as all that.'

  `With extras?' asked the Mock Turtle a little anxiously.

  `Yes,' said Alice, `we learned French and music.'

  `And washing?' said the Mock Turtle.

  `Certainly not!' said Alice indignantly.

  `Ah! then yours wasn't a really good school,' said the Mock
Turtle in a tone of great relief.  `Now at OURS they had at the
end of the bill, "French, music, AND WASHING--extra."'

  `You couldn't have wanted it much,' said Alice; `living at the
bottom of the sea.'

  `I couldn't afford to learn it.' said the Mock Turtle with a
sigh.  `I only took the regular course.'

  `What was that?' inquired Alice.

  `Reeling and Writhing, of course, to begin with,' the Mock
Turtle replied; `and then the different branches of Arithmetic--
Ambition, Distraction, Uglification, and Derision.'

  `I never heard of "Uglification,"' Alice ventured to say.  `What
is it?'

  The Gryphon lifted up both its paws in surprise.  `What!  Never
heard of uglifying!' it exclaimed.  `You know what to beautify
is, I suppose?'

  `Yes,' said Alice doubtfully:  `it means--to--make--anything--
prettier.'

  `Well, then,' the Gryphon went on, `if you don't know what to
uglify is, you ARE a simpleton.'

  Alice did not feel encouraged to ask any more questions about
it, so she turned to the Mock Turtle, and said `What else had you
to learn?'

  `Well, there was Mystery,' the Mock Turtle replied, counting
off the subjects on his flappers, `--Mystery, ancient and modern,
with Seaography:  then Drawling--the Drawling-master was an old
conger-eel, that used to come once a week:  HE taught us
Drawling, Stretching, and Fainting in Coils.'

  `What was THAT like?' said Alice.

  `Well, I can't show it you myself,' the Mock Turtle said:  `I'm
too stiff.  And the Gryphon never learnt it.'

  `Hadn't time,' said the Gryphon:  `I went to the Classics
master, though.  He was an old crab, HE was.'

  `I never went to him,' the Mock Turtle said with a sigh:  `he
taught Laughing and Grief, they used to say.'

  `So he did, so he did,' said the Gryphon, sighing in his turn;
and both creatures hid their faces in their paws.

  `And how many hours a day did you do lessons?' said Alice, in a
hurry to change the subject.

  `Ten hours the first day,' said the Mock Turtle: `nine the
next, and so on.'

  `What a curious plan!' exclaimed Alice.

  `That's the reason they're called lessons,' the Gryphon
remarked:  `because they lessen from day to day.'

  This was quite a new idea to Alice, and she thought it over a
little before she made her next remark.  `Then the eleventh day
must have been a holiday?'

  `Of course it was,' said the Mock Turtle.

  `And how did you manage on the twelfth?' Alice went on eagerly.

  `That's enough about lessons,' the Gryphon interrupted in a
very decided tone:  `tell her something about the games now.'



                            CHAPTER X

                      The Lobster Quadrille


  The Mock Turtle sighed deeply, and drew the back of one flapper
across his eyes.  He looked at Alice, and tried to speak, but for
a minute or two sobs choked his voice.  `Same as if he had a bone
in his throat,' said the Gryphon:  and it set to work shaking him
and punching him in the back.  At last the Mock Turtle recovered
his voice, and, with tears running down his cheeks, he went on
again:--

  `You may not have lived much under the sea--' (`I haven't,'
said Alice)--`and perhaps you were never even introduced to a lobster--'
(Alice began to say `I once tasted--' but checked herself hastily,
and said `No, never') `--so you can have no idea what a delightful
thing a Lobster Quadrille is!'

  `No, indeed,' said Alice.  `What sort of a dance is it?'

  `Why,' said the Gryphon, `you first form into a line along the
sea-shore--'

  `Two lines!' cried the Mock Turtle.  `Seals, turtles, salmon,
and so on; then, when you've cleared all the jelly-fish out of
the way--'

  `THAT generally takes some time,' interrupted the Gryphon.

  `--you advance twice--'

  `Each with a lobster as a partner!' cried the Gryphon.

  `Of course,' the Mock Turtle said:  `advance twice, set to
partners--'

  `--change lobsters, and retire in same order,' continued the
Gryphon.

  `Then, you know,' the Mock Turtle went on, `you throw the--'

  `The lobsters!' shouted the Gryphon, with a bound into the air.

  `--as far out to sea as you can--'

  `Swim after them!' screamed the Gryphon.

  `Turn a somersault in the sea!' cried the Mock Turtle,
capering wildly about.

  `Back to land again, and that's all the first figure,' said the
Mock Turtle, suddenly dropping his voice; and the two creatures,
who had been jumping about like mad things all this time, sat
down again very sadly and quietly, and looked at Alice.

  `It must be a very pretty dance,' said Alice timidly.

  `Would you like to see a little of it?' said the Mock Turtle.

  `Very much indeed,' said Alice.

  `Come, let's try the first figure!' said the Mock Turtle to the
Gryphon.  `We can do without lobsters, you know.  Which shall
sing?'

  `Oh, YOU sing,' said the Gryphon.  `I've forgotten the words.'

  So they began solemnly dancing round and round Alice, every now
and then treading on her toes when they passed too close, and
waving their forepaws to mark the time, while the Mock Turtle
sang this, very slowly and sadly:--


`"Will you walk a little faster?" said a whiting to a snail.
"There's a porpoise close behind us, and he's treading on my
 tail.
See how eagerly the lobsters and the turtles all advance!
They are waiting on the shingle--will you come and join the
dance?

Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, will you join the
dance?
Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, won't you join the
dance?


"You can really have no notion how delightful it will be
When they take us up and throw us, with the lobsters, out to
                                                      sea!"
But the snail replied "Too far, too far!" and gave a look
                                                       askance--
Said he thanked the whiting kindly, but he would not join the
   dance.
    Would not, could not, would not, could not, would not join
        the dance.
    Would not, could not, would not, could not, could not join
        the dance.

`"What matters it how far we go?" his scaly friend replied.
"There is another shore, you know, upon the other side.
The further off from England the nearer is to France--
Then turn not pale, beloved snail, but come and join the dance.

    Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, will you join the
         dance?
    Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, won't you join the
         dance?"'



  `Thank you, it's a very interesting dance to watch,' said
Alice, feeling very glad that it was over at last:  `and I do so
like that curious song about the whiting!'

  `Oh, as to the whiting,' said the Mock Turtle, `they--you've
seen them, of course?'

  `Yes,' said Alice, `I've often seen them at dinn--' she
checked herself hastily.

  `I don't know where Dinn may be,' said the Mock Turtle, `but
if you've seen them so often, of course you know what they're
like.'

  `I believe so,' Alice replied thoughtfully.  `They have their
tails in their mouths--and they're all over crumbs.'

  `You're wrong about the crumbs,' said the Mock Turtle:
`crumbs would all wash off in the sea.  But they HAVE their tails
in their mouths; and the reason is--' here the Mock Turtle
yawned and shut his eyes.--`Tell her about the reason and all
that,' he said to the Gryphon.

  `The reason is,' said the Gryphon, `that they WOULD go with
the lobsters to the dance.  So they got thrown out to sea.  So
they had to fall a long way.  So they got their tails fast in
their mouths.  So they couldn't get them out again.  That's all.'

  `Thank you,' said Alice, `it's very interesting.  I never knew
so much about a whiting before.'

  `I can tell you more than that, if you like,' said the
Gryphon.  `Do you know why it's called a whiting?'

  `I never thought about it,' said Alice.  `Why?'

  `IT DOES THE BOOTS AND SHOES.' the Gryphon replied very
solemnly.

  Alice was thoroughly puzzled.  `Does the boots and shoes!' she
repeated in a wondering tone.

  `Why, what are YOUR shoes done with?' said the Gryphon.  `I
mean, what makes them so shiny?'

  Alice looked down at them, and considered a little before she
gave her answer.  `They're done with blacking, I believe.'

  `Boots and shoes under the sea,' the Gryphon went on in a deep
voice, `are done with a whiting.  Now you know.'

  `And what are they made of?' Alice asked in a tone of great
curiosity.

  `Soles and eels, of course,' the Gryphon replied rather
impatiently:  `any shrimp could have told you that.'

  `If I'd been the whiting,' said Alice, whose thoughts were
still running on the song, `I'd have said to the porpoise, "Keep
back, please:  we don't want YOU with us!"'

  `They were obliged to have him with them,' the Mock Turtle
said:  `no wise fish would go anywhere without a porpoise.'

  `Wouldn't it really?' said Alice in a tone of great surprise.

  `Of course not,' said the Mock Turtle:  `why, if a fish came
to ME, and told me he was going a journey, I should say "With
what porpoise?"'

  `Don't you mean "purpose"?' said Alice.

  `I mean what I say,' the Mock Turtle replied in an offended
tone.  And the Gryphon added `Come, let's hear some of YOUR
adventures.'

  `I could tell you my adventures--beginning from this morning,'
said Alice a little timidly:  `but it's no use going back to
yesterday, because I was a different person then.'

  `Explain all that,' said the Mock Turtle.

  `No, no!  The adventures first,' said the Gryphon in an
impatient tone:  `explanations take such a dreadful time.'

  So Alice began telling them her adventures from the time when
she first saw the White Rabbit.  She was a little nervous about
it just at first, the two creatures got so close to her, one on
each side, and opened their eyes and mouths so VERY wide, but she
gained courage as she went on.  Her listeners were perfectly
quiet till she got to the part about her repeating `YOU ARE OLD,
FATHER WILLIAM,' to the Caterpillar, and the words all coming
different, and then the Mock Turtle drew a long breath, and said
`That's very curious.'

  `It's all about as curious as it can be,' said the Gryphon.

  `It all came different!' the Mock Turtle repeated
thoughtfully.  `I should like to hear her try and repeat
something now.  Tell her to begin.'  He looked at the Gryphon as
if he thought it had some kind of authority over Alice.

  `Stand up and repeat "'TIS THE VOICE OF THE SLUGGARD,"' said
the Gryphon.

  `How the creatures order one about, and make one repeat
lessons!' thought Alice; `I might as well be at school at once.'
However, she got up, and began to repeat it, but her head was so
full of the Lobster Quadrille, that she hardly knew what she was
saying, and the words came very queer indeed:--

    `'Tis the voice of the Lobster; I heard him declare,
    "You have baked me too brown, I must sugar my hair."
    As a duck with its eyelids, so he with his nose
    Trims his belt and his buttons, and turns out his toes.'

              [later editions continued as follows
    When the sands are all dry, he is gay as a lark,
    And will talk in contemptuous tones of the Shark,
    But, when the tide rises and sharks are around,
    His voice has a timid and tremulous sound.]

  `That's different from what I used to say when I was a child,'
said the Gryphon.

  `Well, I never heard it before,' said the Mock Turtle; `but it
sounds uncommon nonsense.'

  Alice said nothing; she had sat down with her face in her
hands, wondering if anything would EVER happen in a natural way
again.

  `I should like to have it explained,' said the Mock Turtle.

  `She can't explain it,' said the Gryphon hastily.  `Go on with
the next verse.'

  `But about his toes?' the Mock Turtle persisted.  `How COULD
he turn them out with his nose, you know?'

  `It's the first position in dancing.' Alice said; but was
dreadfully puzzled by the whole thing, and longed to change the
subject.

  `Go on with the next verse,' the Gryphon repeated impatiently:
`it begins "I passed by his garden."'

  Alice did not dare to disobey, though she felt sure it would
all come wrong, and she went on in a trembling voice:--

    `I passed by his garden, and marked, with one eye,
    How the Owl and the Panther were sharing a pie--'

        [later editions continued as follows
    The Panther took pie-crust, and gravy, and meat,
    While the Owl had the dish as its share of the treat.
    When the pie was all finished, the Owl, as a boon,
    Was kindly permitted to pocket the spoon:
    While the Panther received knife and fork with a growl,
    And concluded the banquet--]

  `What IS the use of repeating all that stuff,' the Mock Turtle
interrupted, `if you don't explain it as you go on?  It's by far
the most confusing thing I ever heard!'

  `Yes, I think you'd better leave off,' said the Gryphon:  and
Alice was only too glad to do so.

  `Shall we try another figure of the Lobster Quadrille?' the
Gryphon went on.  `Or would you like the Mock Turtle to sing you
a song?'

  `Oh, a song, please, if the Mock Turtle would be so kind,'
Alice replied, so eagerly that the Gryphon said, in a rather
offended tone, `Hm! No accounting for tastes!  Sing her "Turtle
Soup," will you, old fellow?'

  The Mock Turtle sighed deeply, and began, in a voice sometimes
choked with sobs, to sing this:--


    `Beautiful Soup, so rich and green,
    Waiting in a hot tureen!
    Who for such dainties would not stoop?
    Soup of the evening, beautiful Soup!
    Soup of the evening, beautiful Soup!
        Beau--ootiful Soo--oop!
        Beau--ootiful Soo--oop!
    Soo--oop of the e--e--evening,
        Beautiful, beautiful Soup!

    `Beautiful Soup!  Who cares for fish,
    Game, or any other dish?
    Who would not give all else for two p
    ennyworth only of beautiful Soup?
    Pennyworth only of beautiful Soup?
        BeLN--WZGMUNX BWZ--WZZ!
        SQLN--WZGMUNX BWZ--WZZ!
    XHW--ZHZ UZ PMY S--Y--SSKDUDF,
        SQLNGMUNX, LQYMFU--GNF XHHF!'

  `RMHWHL KFKUW!' NDHKR PMK PWEHRUW, LAC GRS UIDQ FMCPSA UEW
HOBP SQFIC FH WSHQYG MZ, CRSA L NCX WZ `FRS PCUKX'B SQIDWLUDZ!'
NYP RQYCR UD PMK RHVFQWNY.

  `WMHQ UW!' NCHKC GRS PDEZMIA, LWR, FQVDDF LFMDQ SQ ZRS UEWR,
MG MOWSHKW IZL, DOPMIOZ CKUGMDF ZUC PRS ARW IZ FRS XHDF.

  `ROQF PCUKV UV HF?' QVURQ FECFKR EL PRS ELA; LMZ BRS PDEZMIW
UWXA LAXRSEKR `WMHQ UW!' LAR CLA PMA PELPQC, DMHSA UIES LAC IHWY
ULUDFBQ WQUQ, RENDHKR UW PMQ SESYPQ PUEF ZUXXURYC GRSC, MRS
HQFLWNMIXA YWCRB:--

    `XHW--ZHZ UZ PMY S--Y--SSKDUDF,
        SQLNGMUNX, LQYMFUGNF XHHF!'



                           RMEFPQW SO

                      ROH XZMSA PMQ PENPB?


  PMQ EUDF KWR AMYSW UP UQYCPX RSES PQYPQW IC FRSHD PMWHRA ROAR
PMQK ENDHSKR, DMGU E PDQYM QWHDR ELPSCTSAN KXMMF PMQH--LFX BHWPB
UZ VUZBSA VMCRL EWR SQELPB, EL RYXV EL PMY RMISA FEDQ UZ NQCRB:
PMQ EALSK NYB VFQWRUDT VAPHWQ PRSU, HW NUEUDX, RMGU E XHVNHKW HW
QYRM VHRK ZM FIENR IHU; LAR WQYC PRS VDDF NYB PRS ROMGS EQLVMZ,
DOPM Q FNHHTQP UD UWS RLAN, KWR E LNCUXX UZ TENRMHQCF UD PMY
MZRSD.  HC FRS SKWE UHWVSA UZ PMQ RIOCP NYL E FQLXY, RMGU E FLDPY
KDPR UZ FQCPL HZHD UZ:  BRSA XWZEQR VI ZWZC, GUEG MM CKNQ YVURQ
AMMGS RNAPDQ ZU XWZE YZ BRSU--`H DOPR PMQK'K IQP PMQ PDHLF WIRA,'
PRQ PMIIFMP, `LAR ILAR CIOWR PMS EAPESPRHQCFB!'  LMF PMSES PYSHQW
ZM SQ WU RMLARQ UZ PMHV, XH PRQ SKPLA XUIYUDF KP QSKWEPMUDF KXMMF
RSC, PH ZELL ENYQ ZRS GMHQ.

  LFMDS RKN RASKC SYSD UA L WMHNZ MG UHLGMRQ SQZUES, LMP BRS UEW
ESKN QLIOZ BRSU HC LWZEV, LAR VRS NYB EOHPQ FSQYPSC GU ZUDC GUEZ
PRQ ERAC ZRS ALHQ UZ RAENXA KSSEQZMHDF PMSEQ.  `PUEP'B PMY
HOKIS,' PRS LEDK ZM RSEPAST, `LQRLNPS UZ MHV PESQF DOZ.'

  PMK HINPK, XQ PMY RYK, NYB PRS VDDF; LAN KP RY RHWS RHV NCWYW
IXSE PMY RDI, (XUIY QF PMA PWHCFHVGHQRK HZ AIO NYCF ZM PSS RWY RS
KDK DP,) MK RDK WUF BWZE YF QXV WMUTHWFQLXQ, YWR MG NYB RSEFQUDXA
WUM TQRIUUDZ.

  `LAC GUEP'B PMK HHNQ-XWZ,' PMIOPIF QVURQ, `LAC GMIPS ZCASSK
NCQYFMESB,' (VRS NYX HLXDIKR ZM LEQ `WESQFHNSP,' XWH LYS, SQNQHLY
XHHQ UZ PMQH RYES LAHULFL, EWR XHHQ RYES VMCRV,) `H LHZSHXQ PRSX
ENQ PRS HOWHEP.'  PRS PKUC GMHB XELZ CHWC GYW HW PMESQ PHUSP IXSE
ZM RSEPAST, LKHDF NEPMSE HEIOW IG UF:  ZHW PRQ PMIIFMP, LAW
DHPIFBQ ZWZ, PMQF SKWE PAN XMGFBK PHDXB UZ RSN EPK ADYR PMY
HQLAUDZ IG UF QF QXV.  MIRYSKD, `HHNQ-OAR' YWNFR IKLK RUWK HHLZ
EL RYXV.

  PMQ PRYXSK HHNHWX RSEQ YXV DCMGUDI GSEQ XHLUVX WR LFLPQB.
`ROQF ENQ PRSK WIHDF?'  LFMDY RMHPHSEKR ZM PMK PWEHRUW.  `PMQK
NQC'F UESK LAQZMHDF ZM FHG CWYW AQP, SQZUES PMQ PDHLF'B LKPNA.'

  `PMQK'ES FHZBUDI KWYC FRSHD ALHQB,' PRS PDEZMIW DMHPHSEKR UD
ESFSA, `ZHW PAEN PMQK PRIOVN ZUDPQP PMQH SQZUES PMY SWR UZ PMY
PCUKX.'

  `BPHFDK PMUDPV!' LFMDQ SKPLA UD L FIOK, DWRDIALCF XIMDQ, SMF
PRS PZMZSKR UEBPUVA, ZHW PMY RMHPQ NELVMG NCHKW IMF, `VHSAWNK HW
PMQ RIOCP!' LAC GRS VDDF FHZ MR UHV PHQRFQNBSP LAN VWZEQW
LAVOIOBXE WIOWR, ZM UQEQ IOZ CMI NYB PLFVDDF.

  LFMDQ RIOVN PSQ, YX RASF LV HP LRS RYES XUIYUDZ ISKC PRSHD
PRIOVNSEB, PUEF QXV PMK HHNHWX RSEY RDHGMDF WIDW `BPHFDK PMUDPV!'
UW PMKHE PFLPQL, EWR PRQ RIOVN KSAR UQEQ IOZ BUEZ MRA UZ PMQH
KDRW'G QWUR OWY ZM PHASX `BFMGHN,' KWR PMQF RS UEC GU YVE MHB
RADIMSIOC PM ZASS UHU.  `L AMDQ HINNVQ PRSHD BXQFSP'XV SQ UD
SQZUES PMQ PDHLF'X HSKC!' PMIIFMP LFMDY.

  UWY HZ FRS HOWHEP UEN K HSWNUV PMQF BEHAYEKR.  PMHV UZ WMHNPS,
LFMDQ RIOVN WUP BFQWR, LAR VRS RYCF WHNAC GRS WMHNF QWR ZIZ
SQMHWR MHU, QWR SKWE XHUW ZUNAN KW UZSHWFMDUZQ UZ FQVDDF MG
YNYK.  PRK RDK MG XH AMMDAVQ ZUEZ BRS ZHHW VUZBSA HOWHD (HZ CEL
VMXV, PMA SOGENR) NIOVN WUM CYEY HMF QF LFX NUEP MKN SQWMHQ UZ
MG; XH, LUPQE RNAGMDF LFF LXMMF ZUD HP, MY REL MXVUPKC GW YDHPQ
DOPM UWA PUDPKN PHW PMS ESPZ MZ FRS NKK; YWR PMHV NYX HG LSEX
VUZBSA HLQ, YV HF BAPF CI UENY IC FRS BXQFY.

  `RSNEVN, ESKN PMQ YWBHLQFHIR!' LKUC GRS VDDF.

  UW PMHV PMY RMHPQ NELVMG LXYR PMESQ SFLBPX HC FRS PCOUHSF, QWR
PMAR NAWHXVKR PMS HENRMHQCF BRWHXV, LAR CQYN KL PUXXURX:--

    `PMQ AHAAR UZ RSENPB, PRQ HKNS PIUQ PENPB,
          LFX UA L LHOBSE NKX:
      PMQ EALSK UZ RSENPB, RS BPUXQ PMIPS FQCPB,
          LAC GWZQ GRSC BOHPQ YNYK!'

  `WMRLDKSE XWHN SKCRMDZ,' BRS VDDF LEDK ZM PMK HHNX.

  `WUZ QQP, WUZ QQP!' PMS EQLVMP MELGMXA UDPQWSHFPQC.  `GRSES'B
K FESQF RKLF ZM WMHQ SQZUES PMQF!'

  `NQXV PMA PHDBP DOFCSPB,' VKUC GRS VDDF; LAC GRS ROMGS EQLVMZ
LXYR PMESQ SFLBPX HC FRS PCOUHSF, QWR NQXVKR IOF, `ZHDBP
DOFCSPB!'

  PMA PHDBP DOFCSPX REL PMS RQFPQE.  RQ RQUK HW DMGU E PQQNHF UD
UWS RLAN KWR E FHKRQ UZ SCQYN-KWR-LMZBSE UD PMY HPMSE.  `M VKP
FECRUW, XWHN UQHKBPE,' OQ SKPLA, `ZUC SDHDFUDP FRSPS UD:  LMG M
UERW'M BOHPQ GUDUPRKR OQ PQY NRSD U NYB VARF ZHW.'

  `XWO IIFMP ZM UESK GUDUPRKR,' LEDK PMQ EUDZ.  `DRSW RDK XWO
SQIDW?'

  PMS RQFPQN SWZEQN KZ BRS UQCNO SENY, RMI UEN GUXXURYR IHU UDZM
PMQ RIOCP, ENU-HA-LCH DOPM PMK RHWUIHLA.  `PIOCPYSCFM IT UENRM, O
PMUDV DZ CEL,' RS LEDK.

  `GUZFYSCFR,' PKUC GRS UQCNO SENY.

  `VHBZYSCFU,' EWVKR PMK RHWUIHLY.

  `DCMGQ PUEG CWYC,' FRS VDDF LEDK ZM PMK HHNK, YWR PMK HHNX
QYPKNSX YWHPQ WIDW LFB FREYS NKPQX HC FRSHD BXQFSP, LAC GRSW
KNRKC GRSU OF, EWR ESNIRQC GRS LAXRSE ZM PRUVVUDFL EWR HSWNY.

  `FQEQ UZZ AIOE RQF,' PMQ EUDP VKUC GM ZRS UEZBSE.

  `MG HVC'F UHRA,' LEDK PMS RQFPQW.

  `BPUXAR!' PMQ EUDP KBWFLHUKR, FMCWUDP FM ZRS HOWE, ROW
UDBPLAFBQ OKNQ Y HQUINEWROU UZ PMA PQNZ.

