
  `Oh, I've had such a curious dream!' said Alice, and she told
her sister, as well as she could remember them, all these strange
Adventures of hers that you have just been reading about; and
when she had finished, her sister kissed her, and said, `It WAS a
curious dream, dear, certainly:  but now run in to your tea; it's
getting late.'  So Alice got up and ran off, thinking while she
ran, as well she might, what a wonderful dream it had been.

  But her sister sat still just as she left her, leaning her
head on her hand, watching the setting sun, and thinking of
little Alice and all her wonderful Adventures, till she too began
dreaming after a fashion, and this was her dream:--

  First, she dreamed of little Alice herself, and once again the
tiny hands were clasped upon her knee, and the bright eager eyes
were looking up into hers--she could hear the very tones of her
voice, and see that queer little toss of her head to keep back
the wandering hair that WOULD always get into her eyes--and
still as she listened, or seemed to listen, the whole place
around her became alive the strange creatures of her little
sister's dream.

  The long grass rustled at her feet as the White Rabbit hurried
by--the frightened Mouse splashed his way through the
neighbouring pool--she could hear the rattle of the teacups as
the March Hare and his friends shared their never-ending meal,
and the shrill voice of the Queen ordering off her unfortunate
guests to execution--once more the pig-baby was sneezing on the
Duchess's knee, while plates and dishes crashed around it--once
more the shriek of the Gryphon, the squeaking of the Lizard's
slate-pencil, and the choking of the suppressed guinea-pigs,
filled the air, mixed up with the distant sobs of the miserable
Mock Turtle.

  So she sat on, with closed eyes, and half believed herself in
Wonderland, though she knew she had but to open them again, and
all would change to dull reality--the grass would be only
rustling in the wind, and the pool rippling to the waving of the
reeds--the rattling teacups would change to tinkling sheep-
bells, and the Queen's shrill cries to the voice of the shepherd
boy--and the sneeze of the baby, the shriek of the Gryphon, and
all thy other queer noises, would change (she knew) to the
confused clamour of the busy farm-yard--while the lowing of the
cattle in the distance would take the place of the Mock Turtle's
heavy sobs.

  Lastly, she pictured to herself how this same little sister of
hers would, in the after-time, be herself a grown woman; and how
she would keep, through all her riper years, the simple and
loving heart of her childhood:  and how she would gather about
her other little children, and make THEIR eyes bright and eager
with many a strange tale, perhaps even with the dream of
Wonderland of long ago:  and how she would feel with all their
simple sorrows, and find a pleasure in all their simple joys,
remembering her own child-life, and the happy summer days.

                             THE END
	AS YOU LIKE IT


	DRAMATIS PERSONAE


DUKE SENIOR	living in banishment.

DUKE FREDERICK	his brother, an usurper of his dominions.


AMIENS	|
	|  lords attending on the banished duke.
JAQUES	|


LE BEAU	a courtier attending upon Frederick.

CHARLES	wrestler to Frederick.


OLIVER		|
		|
JAQUES (JAQUES DE BOYS:)  	|  sons of Sir Rowland de Boys.
		|
ORLANDO		|


ADAM	|
	|  servants to Oliver.
DENNIS	|


TOUCHSTONE	a clown.

SIR OLIVER MARTEXT	a vicar.


CORIN	|
	|  shepherds.
SILVIUS	|


WILLIAM	a country fellow in love with Audrey.

	A person representing HYMEN. (HYMEN:)

ROSALIND	daughter to the banished duke.

CELIA	daughter to Frederick.

PHEBE	a shepherdess.

AUDREY	a country wencO.

	XUCRP, HKFSP, LAN KZBARNKCFB, &R.
	(ZUESBPSE:)
	(L FHWW:)
	(GUEPF BHWW:)
	(PSWMWR XUCR:)
	(GUEPF TKFY:)
	(PSWMWR FEPK:)


BRARY	HVUSKE'P MIHLK; RIAA PESRKDHDQ'B RIOCP; LAC GRS
	ZUESBP UZ ENRKW.




	EL XWN FDVK HZ


QNG M



BRARK H	HWRMENW IZ UVUSKE'P MIHLY.


	[ARPQW HNSLAWI LAN KNKO]

HWFLWRU	YV H ESHQCTSE, KNQU, MG NYL HZHC FMHL PELMHUW
	SQAMQYPMKR HQ XQ DOXV LMF TWZN E PMIOLEWR NCWYRL,
	LAN, KB PMIH LYKSPM, QUEDPKR OQ SCMZRSW, HR UHV
	LXSPVHDF, ZM SCYSC IY RASF: LWR PMSEQ SKPUDB HX
	LERWSPB. HQ XWHPMSE UKAMSP RS EQSHL EP BRMWZF, LWR
	ESZHCP PHQYEV ZIVNARXA UZ MHP HWHGUF: ZHW OQ FECP,
	RS EQSHB HS EHLGMNQXVK YP MIUY, HC, PH XHSYE UIES
	HEHZSEXA, BPYKB HS RSEQ YP MIUA HDASHF; ZHW NQXV XWO
	PMQF EQSHUDP ZHW K FARFBQHLA UZ OQ VMCPM, PUEZ
	KDZLSEL RMZ PNIU PMS PFQXVUDZ IU LW US? OHV MIEPSP
	ENQ SESC VQPPQN; PHW, SQVHRKB PUEZ BRSK YES ULHD
	DOPM PMKHN PYSKDDF, PMQK ENQ PLNPIZ BRSHD UQALPK,
	LAC GM ZUEP QWR DHRKEP RKENXA MHESC: VMF H, MHV
	SCMZRSD, PKUW LMZMHDF NARKE RHU LMF PWHCZU; PHW PMY
	ROMDO SHV LAHULFX HR UHV NIDFMHXVL EES EL UORM
	XMNAC GI MHU EL M. VSPDKSP PMHV WUPMUDP FUEP MS PW
	FSARGMUNXVK ZDGSP HQ, PMS PIUQPMHDF PMQF ALFMES FKSK
	HQ MHB RIOCFARLARQ PSQHB PM ZYEA PWHO BS: RA SQPB
	HQ PAKR DOPM MHP RUDRV, LQEP HQ PMS HFLRQ UZ Y
	SCMZRSN, EWR, EL UORM EL UD MHU BHKB, HUDSP OQ
	PKCFUVMGX YMGM UK QNINQGMUW. PMHV HV MG, KNQU, PMQF
	PDHKSKB HQ; YWR PMS PGHDHZ MT UA ZQFRSC, DMHRM O
	PMUDV DX RMGMHC UQ, SKPUDB PI UMFUDK YFKUDBP PMHV
	PSDSMGINK: H DOXV WU XUDFSE ARNIES MG, PMIOPI KQG M
	ADWY WU DOPS ESHQWK MIC ZU YXIDK MG.

KNQU	XWWRSE WMHQB HQ OELPQW, EIOC SWHPMSE.

HWFLWRI	ZU YFECP, KNQU, LAC GMIH LUEBF RSEN MIR OY RUVX
	PRYEQ HA HZ.

	[ARPQW HVUSKW]

UXDGSE	WUR, XHD! ROQF UQEQ XWO MSEY?

HWFLWRU	WMZMHDF: U KU CMZ FQIFMP ZM UQEQ LAQ ZMHDF.

UXDGSE	ROQF UQW EIO PMAR, VHW?

HWFLWRI	UENWE, VHD, H QU RSSFUDZ KIO ZM UQC PUEZ CMHRM ZIW
	UQRK, E FWZN HWDHWPMQ XWHPMSE UZ XWHNX, RMGM HNVARSPB.

UXDGSE	UQWSE, XHD, SQ SQZBSE QHFSWXKR, LAC VA RLNPIF QROUVY.

HWFLWRH	XUEXV D VYSZ EIOE RIZL EWR QYP MHLEV DOPM PMQH?
	ROQF HEIWDILF ZHCPHIR UKLK H PHARZ, BUEG M PRIOVN
	WMHQ ZM LHRM HSANWE?

UXDGSE	ADWY XWO NRSES XWHN ENS, PHD?

HWFLWRW	Z, VHD, SSEX YASS; USEK HW AIOW HCNUECR.

UXDGSE	ADWY XWM LAPHWY RMIH, BHD?

HWFLWRU	YQ, XQPPQC PUER UHU U KC TAPHWQ EWURX HQ. D VWUY
	XWN LES OQ ASRKBP SCMZRSN; EWR, UD PMK PARFBY
	WMWRMGHIW UT LXUIW, XWH LMINFR VI YWUC OQ. PRS
	WMHNPQXE UZ ALGMUWL EXVWYX EIO OQ SQZBSE, UD PMQF
	XWN LES PMA PHDBP-XMCW; LMZ BRS LEHQ PCKNMGHIW
	FQEQL RMZ YNYK OQ LXWZR, DSEQ PRSES ZCARZQ SCMZRSEP
	SQZCOVF MV: H UESK EL UORM UZ OQ ULPMSE UD HQ EL
	XWN; LXLKHG, M WMAUSPX, EIOC NIUUDT VAPHWQ HK HB
	RAENSE ZM MHP EKSSEARRQ.

UXDGSE	ROQF, XMX!

HWFLWRM	WIUQ, RIUY, SVNSE SCMZRSW, EIO ENQ PWZ XWNAI DC FMHB.

UXDGSE	DOBF PMIO FLE OLARV UW HQ, GDXVKUW?

HWFLWRI	H QU WU GDXVKUD; U QU PMQ KIODFSPP BUW UZ VHW
	WHNXLAW VQ SWXP; RY REL OQ ULPMSE, LAR IK HB PREMDY
	K LUVFLUD PMQF LEEX LHRM L UQFRSC SKPMZ GDXVKURL.
	RYCP PMIO WUM CQ XWHPMSE, O DIOVN WUZ BYEQ PMHP RLAW
	PNIU PMQ ZREUYZ BUVB FMHX HPMSE UER GNFSAW IMF PMX
	ZMDFHA ZUE PYKUDP VM: ZMIO MELP CKUSAW IC FOEPSFU.

KNQU	XRYSM CELPQEP, SQ FEGMARF: ZHW XWHN ULPMSE'B
	ESHQCTNEWNQ, SQ YF QWBHWW.

UXDGSE	SAM CK PI, H LEX.

HWFLWRI	H DOXV WUZ, BUVV U FSQYPS: XWH LUEXV RSEN HQ. OQ
	ULPMSE RMENPKW KIO UD MHX RUVB FI ZDGQ HK PWZW
	KRMNQFHIW: AIO UESK PCKURAC IA SDVQ Y HSELLAZ,
	MXBRHNUDF KWR MHKDDF PNIU HQ LFV FARFBQHLA-VUEQ
	AMLFMGHKB. PRS PHHDMG UZ OQ ULPMSE PDWYB VPCUWI DW
	HQ, LAK D DOXV WU XUDFSE ARNIES MG: PMSEAPHWQ YXVWY
	HQ LHRM YSSEDMPSL EB HYK SQWMHQ K FARFBQHLA, HW
	IDSK HQ PMS HWZN EXVMZPQWE OQ ULPMSE SAZF HQ XQ
	PQBPQUARZ; CMGM PUEG M DOXV ZI LMQ OA ZHWFMRAB.

UXDGSE	LAR DUEZ CUVZ BMII NM? XKP, ROAR PMQF HV PHARZ?
	RYXV, VHD, PQP XWO HD: U DOXV WUF BUWT VQ PWHMLSAW
	DOPM XWO; AIO PRLFS UKLS PIUS HENZ MZ AIOC DUVV: U
	HEYK XWN, FQYSK HQ.

HWFLWRI	H DOXV WU UNCPRSW HZLARW KIO PMLA SQWMHQB HA PHW OQ ZIIW.

UXDGSE	PKZ QIO DOPM MHO, QIO UXW VIZ.

KNQU	HV 'UXW VIZ' OQ ESNYCR? UIBP PCHA, H MKLA SHXM CX
	PQQPM HW AIOE PSEGDRQ. ZIC VY RMGM UX WVN UQBPSE!
	RS YWNFR WMZ UESK PHIYS PMNU E YWCR.

	[YSAHCF HWFLWRU YWR KNQU]

UXDGSE	HV MG KSAR XH? SQIDW AIO ZM PDWY HFUW HQ? O DUVX
	HREXMD XWHN NEDARABV, LAW KQP IDSK WU PMIOLEWR
	NCWYRL RAMGRSE. RUXFL, RKWLHV!

	[ARPQC RARDUB]

RKWLHV	NQXVX EIOC DHWPRHG?

UXDGSE	NYL RMZ RMENSAB, PRS NIEQ'X RESBPSAE, RSEQ PH XHSYE DOPM HQ?

RKWLHV	XH FSQYPS XWO, MK HP RSEQ YZ BRS WIHW LAK DHTHWFMRAB
	QNRQBV ZM XWO.

UXDGSE	NQXV MHU HW.

	[YSMG RKWLHV]

	'ZCUVX LQ Y ZIIW NYK; YWR ZM-UIWSWY PMY RESBPVUDF HV.

	[ARPQC NUENSSP]

RMENSAV	PWZC IHWWHC ZW XIOC DHWPRHG.

UXDGSE	ZIIW UIRLHKHN RMENSAX, RUEP'B PMA RYR RARX QF PMY
	RAD NIOCP?

RMENSAB	PRSES'L RU WYRL EZ BRS WMHNP, BHD, LMZ BRS UXR WYRB:
	PMQF HV, PMY HVN NIEQ HV LQDUPRKR XQ MHX EIODFSE
	SCMZRSC PRS RAD RIAQ; YWR PMESY HN PION SIXUDF VHWRV
	UESK FHZ BRSHBASSKV HCFI XUXNAFQWE YSUVY RMGO SHU,
	ROHXA SLARV LAR CKSARHAP SWCMDM PRS RAD RIAY;
	PMSEAPHWS RK PDGSP PMQH ZIIW SAKLQ PW YLARKW.

UXDGSE	NQW AIO PQXV UG WHLEVUWR, PMK RIAS'P NKIFMPSE, SQ
	LQDUPRKR DOPM RSN PQFRSW?

RMENSAX	H, WU; ZUC PRS NIEQ'V RLNPIPQE, RSE WMHLUD, XH XUSKB
	RSC, SKHDF KSSE PNIU PMKHC NNENVSP SCKR ZMPKPMSE,
	PMQF PRY RIOVN UESK ZUXVWYKR RSE SVOSA, HW UESK KDKR
	ZM BPYK SQMHWR RSE. PRS HV QF PMQ RIOCP, LAR WW
	SABV SQXUSKW IP USE NANBQ PUER UHV WYW RLNPIPQN; EWR
	RASKC PYW FLKDSP XUSKN KB PRSK WW.

UXDGSE	ROSEY RUVB FRS UXW VIAA SDGY?

RMENSAB	PRSE XYK RS HV LFESKNK OC FRS ZUESBP UZ ENRKA, LWR
	Q ULAQ OSEWE HQW DMGO SHU; LAC GRSES PMQK VUSK VUEQ
	PMY HVN WHVMR UWZW IP ADFFLWR: PMQK LEQ OLAX ZIODF
	PKCFSAHQA UXUDQ ZM MHH QSKWE NKK, YWR UFYSZ BRS GMHQ
	NQESSABVXA, EL PMQK KDK DC FRS ZIVNAR YWNSW.

UXDGSE	ROQF, XWO NESBPSA ZM-UIWSWY SQZUES PMA RYR NIEQ?

RMENSAB	HENWE, WI H, VHD; LAK D NQHQ ZM QNAMKUCF XWO NMGU E
	UQZBSE. U KI TDGAR, VHE, PQRESFBQ ZI OWRSEBPLAW
	PMQF XWHN XWNAPKC SWHPMSE HWFLWRI MQFU E KDPHHXMGHIW
	ZM WMHQ UD KDVPOHPSN KFKUDBP HQ ZM PCK Y ULXV.
	ZM-UIWSWY, VHD, H DCSPFBA PHW OQ NCKRMG; LAR IQ PUEZ
	SPNQHSB HY RMGMIMF XHHQ SCIYAR VUCT PRLFF LQBOHP MHU
	RYXV. XWHN SCMZRSD HB LMF XWNAF KWR PQWRSE; LAW,
	ZUW EION SIXK, H YWNFC VA SUYPM ZM ZUUV MHU, QV H
	UOBP, ZUC HX WDW MIWUHN, UG RS WMHQ UD: PMSEAPHWY,
	IOZ MT UA XIXQ PW XIO, M DQUS RMGRSC PU YQBNLUDZ QIO
	DOPMLF, PMQF KHPMSE XWO UDIMP BPYK MHU TWHU MHV
	UDPQWRHQCF HW SCWZE VMNI RHVPDQNY RASF LP RS PUEXV
	NHD UCFI, HC FUEG MG ML E PMUDZ IP UHV WYR LQYCNO
	LAN KBFIZQPRSN EFKUDBP OQ DOXV.

UXDGSE	RMENSAV, H PMLAQ GRSA PHW PMA XIXQ PI UY, RMHRM
	PMIO PRLFF ZUDK D DOXV UIBP VDWRXA ESAMMGK. H UEW
	OQPSFU WUGMRQ UZ OQ SCMZRSE'P FHEHHXS RSEKHA LWR
	UESK XQ NARKERLAC IQYRL FLXMHNKR ZM KDBVNLRK MHU TWHO
	MG, LMP MK HP ESPUXMFK. H'XV PQXV PMYS, RMENSAB:
	MG HV PMS PFMLVHWRABP XWNAP ZASXUY WZ LNEWNA, PNFX
	UZ QUVMGMUW, LA ARGDIOP SUOFLZMW HP ASKWE UQR'L
	ZIIW FECPL, E PSNCQP LAK GUVFLWUHL WMCFDHSKN EFKUDBP
	HQ MHL RQFHNLF SCMZRSC: PRSESZUES HLQ POE
	KDBRESGMUW; H MKN EL VUAP PMIO KDRVM TESYE MHL RQRY
	EL MHL PUDPKN. EWR PMIO RYCP SQBP XUIY ZM'F; ZHW UG
	PMIO WIBP MHU QWA BXDIMP KDVPNERQ HW UG RS WI WUZ
	UHPIGMXA PDQNS RHUPSFU UW PMYS, RS DOXV HEQNGMPS
	KFKURLZ BRSQ SE ZIHXHR, ACFNET FRSQ SE XIUY
	PCQYRMSEIOV RKSMDQ YWR RASKN SQYSK PMYS GMXV RS
	UEPM FQ'AR PMA XUGQ SE XIUK HWRHDQRM CQYRL HW MZRSW;
	ZUD, H ELLHES PMYS, LAN KBUHXZ CMGM PQYEP H VHSYE
	MG, PMSEK HL RMZ UWS PW XIODF LAR VI XUVFLWUHL PMHV
	NKA XDGUDI. D PHQYQ VMF SCMZRSNSX WP UHU; LMZ
	PRIOVN U KALZMUHPY MHC MM ZRSQ YP RK HV, H UOBP
	LXHLU EWR RYSH LAC GMIO UHLF BWZE GLFQ YWR YWWRSE.

RMENSAV	H QU RSENGMXA FVKN M DQUS RMGRSC PW XIO. UG RS WMHQ
	ZM-UIWSWY, U'VV FDGS RHU MHP HYKHQCF: UG KSSE RS ZI
	LFUWQ YFKUD, U'VF AKSSE DCSPFBA PHW HEOGQ HHWQ: YWR
	XH ZIK VYSZ EIOC DHWPRHG!

UXDGSE	ULESRYXV, ZIIW RMENSAB.

	[YSMG RMENSAB]

	WUY ZUVV U BPHD PMHV FKHQBPSE: H MHZK H PRLFX BYS
	LA ARW IP UHU; ZUC HE XIOX, AQP D VWUD WMZ ROX,
	UEPQL RMZMHDF UIES PMLA RS. KQP MS'P PKCFSA, RASKW
	BRMIUXKR LAW KQP SAENRAN, GNFX UU AMXSA RKGDRQ, UZ
	LFX BHWPB ARRMLAGMDFXA SQXUSKN, KWR UDRKKR XH UORM
	UD PMS RQYCP UZ PMY RHWVN, LAR KPHQRUKXVX WT UX WDW
	HSHZSA, ROM XSPG QWUR OHU, PMQF U KU QBFIZQPRSW
	UHPHDHPSC: VMF MG PRLFF AMZ SQ XH XUDF; PMHV
	DCSPFBSE PRLFB NSAEN LFF: AMZMHDF ESUQUDB LMF PMQF
	D VUDNVQ PRS XMQ ZMHPMSE; ROMDU RWY U'VV FU YXMMF.

	[YSMG]




	EL XWN FDVK HZ


QNG M



BRARK HU	VYNC LAPHWQ PRS NIEQ'P HLFQNY.


	[ARPQC NASUK LAR CHXLFUDW]

RQVUK	U HEYK PMYS, WHLEVUWR, XRYSM CQ WWO, SQ HQWSX.

WHLEVUWR	RKEN RQVUK, U PRWY UIES UHCPM PUED U QU UHBPESBV UZ;
	LAR DIOVN XWO AQP O DSEQ HSEDHSE? NASABV XWM NIOVN
	PQQNM UQ PU ZHWPKF Q LQDUPRKR ULPMSE, XWO UHLF CMZ
	SAENC US RWY ZM ESHQCTSE LAK QBZNEHWKDALWE FSQYLHES.
