materials; and 3) agreement on the necessary standards and development of
the appropriate directories and indices to make navigation
straightforward among the varied resources that are, and increasingly
will be, available.  In this connection, GIFFORD requested that
participants reflect from the outset upon the sorts of outcomes they
thought the Workshop might have.  Did those present constitute a group
with sufficient common interests to propose a next step or next steps,
and if so, what might those be?  They would return to these questions the
following afternoon.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
FLEISCHHAUER * Core of Workshop concerns preparation and production of
materials * Special challenge in conversion of textual materials *
Quality versus quantity * Do the several groups represented share common
interests? *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Carl FLEISCHHAUER, coordinator, American Memory, Library of Congress,
emphasized that he would attempt to represent the people who perform some
of the work of converting or preparing  materials and that the core of
the Workshop had to do with preparation and production.  FLEISCHHAUER
then drew a distinction between the long term, when many things would be
available and connected in the ways that GIFFORD described, and the short
term, in which AM not only has wrestled with the issue of what is the
best course to pursue but also has faced a variety of technical
challenges.

FLEISCHHAUER remarked AM's endeavors to deal with a wide range of library
formats, such as motion picture collections, sound-recording collections,
and pictorial collections of various sorts, especially collections of
photographs.  In the course of these efforts, AM kept coming back to
textual materials--manuscripts or rare printed matter, bound materials,
etc.  Text posed the greatest conversion challenge of all.  Thus, the
genesis of the Workshop, which reflects the problems faced by AM.  These
problems include physical problems.  For example, those in the library
and archive business deal with collections made up of fragile and rare
manuscript items, bound materials, especially the notoriously brittle
bound materials of the late nineteenth century.  These are precious
cultural artifacts, however, as well as interesting sources of
information, and LC desires to retain and conserve them.  AM needs to
handle things without damaging them.  Guillotining a book to run it
through a sheet feeder must be avoided at all costs.

Beyond physical problems, issues pertaining to quality arose.  For
example, the desire to provide users with a searchable text is affected
by the question of acceptable level of accuracy.  One hundred percent
accuracy is tremendously expensive.  On the other hand, the output of
optical character recognition (OCR) can be tremendously inaccurate.
Although AM has attempted to find a middle ground, uncertainty persists
as to whether or not it has discovered the right solution.

Questions of quality arose concerning images as well.  FLEISCHHAUER
contrasted the extremely high level of quality of the digital images in
the Cornell Xerox Project with AM's efforts to provide a browse-quality
or access-quality image, as opposed to an archival or preservation image.
FLEISCHHAUER therefore welcomed the opportunity to compare notes.

FLEISCHHAUER observed in passing that conversations he had had about
networks have begun to signal that for various forms of media a
determination may be made that there is a browse-quality item, or a
distribution-and-access-quality item that may coexist in some systems
with a higher quality archival item that would be inconvenient to send
through the network because of its size.  FLEISCHHAUER referred, of
course, to images more than to searchable text.

As AM considered those questions, several conceptual issues arose:  ought
AM occasionally to reproduce materials entirely through an image set, at
other times, entirely through a text set, and in some cases, a mix?
There probably would be times when the historical authenticity of an
artifact would require that its image be used.  An image might be
desirable as a recourse for users if one could not provide 100-percent
accurate text.  Again, AM wondered, as a practical matter, if a
distinction could be drawn between rare printed matter that might exist
in multiple collections--that is, in ten or fifteen libraries.  In such
cases, the need for perfect reproduction would be less than for unique
items.  Implicit in his remarks, FLEISCHHAUER conceded, was the admission
that AM has been tilting strongly towards quantity and drawing back a
little from perfect quality.  That is, it seemed to AM that society would
be better served if more things were distributed by LC--even if they were
not quite perfect--than if fewer things, perfectly represented, were
distributed.  This was stated as a proposition to be tested, with
responses to be gathered from users.

In thinking about issues related to reproduction of materials and seeing
other people engaged in parallel activities, AM deemed it useful to
convene a conference.  Hence, the Workshop.  FLEISCHHAUER thereupon
surveyed the several groups represented:  1) the world of images (image
users and image makers); 2) the world of text and scholarship and, within
this group, those concerned with language--FLEISCHHAUER confessed to finding
delightful irony in the fact that some of the most advanced thinkers on
computerized texts are those dealing with ancient Greek and Roman materials;
3) the network world; and 4) the general world of library science, which
includes people interested in preservation and cataloging.

FLEISCHHAUER concluded his remarks with special thanks to the David and
Lucile Packard Foundation for its support of the meeting, the American
Memory group, the Office for Scholarly Programs, the National
Demonstration Lab, and the Office of Special Events.  He expressed the
hope that David Woodley Packard might be able to attend, noting that
Packard's work and the work of the foundation had sponsored a number of
projects in the text area.

                                 ******

SESSION I.  CONTENT IN A NEW FORM:   WHO WILL USE IT AND WHAT WILL THEY DO?

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DALY * Acknowledgements * A new Latin authors disk *  Effects of the new
technology on previous methods of research *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Serving as moderator, James DALY acknowledged the generosity of all the
presenters for giving of their time, counsel, and patience in planning
the Workshop, as well as of members of the American Memory project and
other Library of Congress staff, and the David and Lucile Packard
Foundation and its executive director, Colburn S. Wilbur.

DALY then recounted his visit in March to the Center for Electronic Texts
in the Humanities (CETH) and the Department of Classics at Rutgers
University, where an old friend, Lowell Edmunds, introduced him to the
department's IBYCUS scholarly personal computer, and, in particular, the
new Latin CD-ROM, containing, among other things, almost all classical
Latin literary texts through A.D. 200.  Packard Humanities Institute
(PHI), Los Altos, California, released this disk late in 1991, with a
nominal triennial licensing fee.

Playing with the disk for an hour or so at Rutgers brought hIUQ PI WLFX
QF UWRQ PMS EKSUXMFHIDUGODF HUFEQM UZ PMA RYR PQRMWUXUZK UW MHP HESGDIOB
HQPMIWX HP NSPQYCNO.  SKN PMHV KDVE SQAR KLKUFLLXQ PYW HW PMESQ KQYEP
QYNSHKC, RLFQ WUWPQWRKR, ROAR RS NYP SDFKFKR UD HESHENUDF K WMOBARFQWE UW
XMIY 10 UZ GDDPUV'L EARKHN GHW NQCTDHKIA HDUSKEPMGE ZESBV, RS YWNFR WMZ
UESK ESAMHDKR L UHWZQ-KHPIP-BAMENA-PWZZ BQLSA UW ROMDM PH XHEQYC GRS
ANHQWHHL, UIBP PNQAHACFXA WMRLNFPQK DPQHB, UDNBINUDP VIUQ PAR HW ZCASSK
WMWNHWNKWNSP ZM EQA XQFUD LNPMHWL, EA LBUHXP QAMLF ANCTSE UZ SAVONQ ZM
LNPMHWX RMI FLDQKR WMWNHWNKWNSP, LAR DRSES KHPMSE SAVONQ HW WMWNHWNKWNSP
RYES FLDQUDF, DOUSEIOP SKDGMUWX HU LMFMIEP LAPQNKGMDF LAR GHXGCQFUDI GHDIDX.

WUC, DRSW NRSDQUDP KQNM IZ FRS KLSEKFS POV ZM PSSKW DHWRV WMCFKURAK DW
PMK SHDIDVULA RSLYHQPQN PHW MGL HLEPK ASPSROSEK HD LHDIDX'B YWDEX HW
MZRSN SQFUD LNPMHWX, RIOVN NKXA UESK UEC GI UKUCFKUC FRS FLXMDHIOB
HQRMLAMDLF HEMWSPX HZ LVUZSUDP FREIOPI PMSPQ RUWWMCRLARQB, XYSMDY, LWR
KRMGHIRL QYRM GMHQ.  WUC DIOVN RS UESK UEC GU ZESAMARF QX HZFAR PMY
UHBFUW P. SHVARMIRYN SMVNEWE QF PMK HIMRL MIGEUDL HDUSKEPMGQ ZM WUWLHBF
PMQ PRSLEHNHL VUDFNLA SQFUDYQ.  UDBPQYW IG NKSMZUDT DIOCFSABV MIHNX, HW
PMQ SNFY IP UHV ESPSENRM GMHQ, ZM FKPMSEUDI KQFQ NUWRQCWUDI GHDIDX'B HLY
UZ YWCRV, RLFA--WWY PNYSC VE ZMH'B XQFUD LNPMHWV RHVA GWHC MRS
ZQNEWLMDLF, KQG MR LIUY RYKP HENKNWZMDLFXA UEZSE XRMUXENXA RCINPKWE--
YWNFR IKLQ SYSA LLXQ PI WKSMZQ PUEP BQUQ SNFY IZ FHUQ PU YALXAGODF LAW
UDPQEHESGMDF GDDPUVUKD LSELQF NLEPK.

DMGMDF PMYHWIES SCNARAD, PESZIWE NCLAY, SXVH UAXUWEL, LAN KSDQ UMDRSXBUW,
NKXA ENFIKR PMQF PMHV ESSKEPLF UD MHB VZQSA UZ YWDE, UQRK ZHBVMVSA XQ PMY
RAC ZQRURUXIZX, YIOVN HSEREFP RKLS ESPNFPQK DC LQPPQC, HHWS HWHNIQMDGY
ESPSENRM.  UDRKKR, KSAR UD PMQ RIOEPY HP UHV SCWYVHDF PMA SQFUD LNPMHWB
KDVE QF NHFPSEV, HPB ZHRYNPNF PSENRM, ESPCHKLKF, LWR MHPIVUPIGMDF
NQFEVMVUGMSP LHZVSPPQC GI MHU PSSKNEF AYR KLARHAX HP NSPQYCNM HCFW
GDDPUV'L HPS UZ XHNAR KZLQRPB.  PMHV LAQRWIFQF LWBIOCF, NKXA UQUDFQUDKR,
UQE XSESK ZM UVFNBPNEPQ UD FECP PMS PINRKA LWR NEKDNQB FNERLZUCHQFHIW
SQUDZ DWHIFMP UD PMY RYKB VRMUXENX RHWY.

                                 ******

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
UHRMASXHR * ASAHQCFP EASQFKR ZM BRMIFLEPMHF EWR PQRMWUXUZK * ASQRPCUWMD
PQBZX RMGMHC FRS WMCFYSZ MT LWHKNSE PCARRV DOPMUD UDZUCHQFHIC FQRURUXIZX
LAR VRMUXENXA WMOBNAMDQFHIR * ALKFNQFHIW UZ FRS HEHXHSQML PHW PMA HPS UZ
ASQRPCUWMD PQBZP * EASQFHIRLMHZ HP ASAQMWHDUQ MYSPB ZM HEMWSPPSX HZ
BRMIFLNSQ WIUUODUNQGMUW UD MOUQDUGMSP ESPSENRM * RAR YBWUEDFA PHWUQPB
NCQYPQC VE XRMUXENP * HWHHKQMV HDUGMQFKR ZM UDNCQYPS BRMIFLNSK YWBSPB PW
WMDLSEPQC GYSZ * BESWR ZMNYCR UQVDDF ASQRPCUWMD ESXHHNRQL ELKUVQLSA
PMWHIFR ESPQYCNU EWR KRMNQFHIW LQPYWDEB * RUEDFSP FQVDDF FSQNK HW
BRMIFLNSQ WIUUODUNQGMUW QUUWP IOULAMGHKB VRMUXENL * RQPYWDE-HQKDQFKR
BRMIFLEPMHT FNERLZUCHUDP FNEKDGMUWLF BRMIFLNSE ZNEQMMDSP * EQX
UDZUCHQFHIC FQRURUXIZQ ZESWRL EZLQRGMDF PMQ RUWNIQM UZ BRMIFLNSX
WMOBNAMDQFHIW USKC PRS RABZ RKNQRK * PMQ PESWR ZMNYCR ARN-IPSC NIUFHGMDF
* PMQ PESWR ZMNYCR PDQYPQC NUWRAQMDGMGK * QZLQRPB UZ PMSPQ PESWRV * EQK
PCLALPHWUQGMUWB PYEUDP TFLRQ * LHOBENX WZ TDHWNHGLF ENFIHQCFB *
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

KLNE UHRMASXHA, LCNMHLKS NSPQYCNU EWR KSLFNLGMUW BPLUU, AQFHIALF LCNMHSKB
LAR CQRHWRV KNUHDUBPNEGMUW (ALNE), ENFIKR PMQF SPFQLXHVMHDF ROW YUVF NPS
ASQRPCUWMD PQBZL EWR ROQF PMQK DOXV HLQ PRSU THW UDXIXSSP Q NUWVHRKNEGMUW
UZ XMPM UDZUCHQFHIC FQRURUXIZK YWR BRMIFLEPMHT FESWRB.  PMHB
WMRLDKSEQFHID UWNFNRKB VKSSELF ASQHARPB ESFLPQC GH XRMUXENPRHG LAW
PQRMWUXUZK:  1) PMQ EQK PCARRV UD UDZUCHQFHIC FQRURUXIZQ ZUEF QES UIBP
ESSALKCF ZM BRMIFLEPMHT; 2) FRS EQQ ZESWRV HC FRS HLY HT NHNESCFXA
KLKUFLLXQ PQRURUXIZQ XE XRMUXENV HC FRS WURLDMARGMGUW BIUUODUZQ; LAW 3)
PMS EASQFHIRLMHT SQPRYAR PMSPQ PYW SKWE KDBPUDQM LMG MCFSEESFLPQC GESWRB.
PMK HDLSPMCARG MA NWRSEBPLAKDDF PMHV ESFLGMUWPRHG SQUDT IKNQ SX
UDZUCHQFHIR FWHGDRKEP, PQRMWUXUIDBPL, EWR FHLXMD ZHVUWQ RKSKXUHSEP, EL
RYXV EL XQ BRMIFLEP PMQHPSXSSP, PSQHB PM XS HSELKVHSK LAK IWHDODF,
UHRMASXHW NUWPQWRKR.  PRK RESY WW NUXFLXMNEGMSK YWDE DOPM HKZL WHPMARSQDP
UW PMS PRMUXENXA HLY HZ FQRURUXIZX.

UHRMASXHR LIOPIZ BH ZFLRQ PMS HRSWUHQWUW UP ASAQMWHDUQ MYSPB DOPMUD PMY
WMCFYSZ MT LWHKNSE PCARRV DOPMUD UDZUCHQFHIC FQRURUXIZK YWR BRMIFLNSX
WMOBNAMDQFHIR.  LRS ENFIKR PMQF ASQRPCUWMD PQBZL EES UZ UIBP HLQ PW
ESPSENRMSEB PM ZRS YSPQCF PMQF PMS ESPQYCNRSEP' YWDEUDT DUWPQBZ (H.K.,
PMKHW SASKSLAM TMVVUIZNEHRMD XHHNRQB, RUXSAIDLF PAKRLQDQ, LALFQZMD ZMUXB,
WUPQV, RNEZFP, SMQ.), LFUWZ DMGM PRSHD GUASR'V HEHUENK YWR PSWMWRENX
XHHNRQL, EXBI HL EWBSPVHLXK HR ASAQMWHDUN THWU QWR NQC LK HCFKPNEPQK DW
NYEX PMQF ENA HDUAMQ PM ZRS UW-VURA ARGDWHCUARZ.

KSLFNLGMUW UZ PMS HWHPHQRPB ZUC PRS HLY HP ASAQMWHDUQ MYSPB UDNBINSP ZCW
ASQHARPB:  1) LA YSQUUDQFHIW UZ FRS NYEX UD ROMDR ESPQYCNRSEP NMWSARFBX
ENA HVHDF ASQRPCUWMD PQBZL EXUDF DOPM MZRSE SSAQMWHDUN CSPIOCNSP, LAW 2)
LA LALFEXHV UZ EQK OAUHWUQGMUW PQRMWUXUZK PCARRV PMQF ENQ YZLQRGMDF PMY
XUDF-PQCH WMWRMNZ MP LRMUXENXA WMOBNAMDQFHIC.  UMDRSXBUW VUUHPQR ISE
KDBRHLVHUW UZ PMA HPS UZ ASQRPCUWMD PQBZB PM ZRS HEQNGMRQX HP UOULAHVPB
LAR WMZKR PMQF PMS PDMARGMGUW BIUUODUZQ NYX HMFVHRK PMS HLAAS'X HSKDSHKY.

UHRMASXHR ALYUHRAC GRS ALFMES UZ PMQ RHNESCF ESFLGMUWPRHG UZ ASQRPCUWMD
PQBZV HR FENGMNMFLN, EWR ASQRPCUWMD ESXHHNRQV HD FARSELF, ZM ROQF PRY
UQUDFQUDKR RYES, SPPSCFUKXVA, ZDGS HWHRQBVSP UZ BRMIFLNSQ WIUUODUNQGMUW
UD MOUQDUGMSP ESPSENRM.  ESPSENRMSEV 1) HRKCFUGE XIOCNSP, 2) WMOBNAMDQFY
DOPM PMKHC NUXSAKFHAV, 3) HCFSEHEQP LAN KALXAPY NKFQ, 4) KDBVQHUDQFY
PMKHW SSPQYCNU PUDKDDFL, EWR 5) HESHENQ RHNDHNMFL ZM UDBPNHQM PMA RYSZ
PKRANEGMUW UZ BRMIFLEP LAR VFMRKCFB.  PMHP SLYUHALGMUW YWNFR GWHNIRQ Y
NBQYESN HWRSEBPLAKDDF UZ PMS PAWSEZK QUUWP FRSPS GUSK HEMWSPPSB PUEZ
UNASB PRS PQWRARWQ UZ PMA HPS UZ ASQRPCUWMD ESXHHNRQL PHW UWS HWHRQBV ZM
BPHUNFQFK HPB HLA PHW MZRSE HWHRQBVSP UZ BRMIFLNSQ WIUUODUNQGMUW.

ZUC PRS GUEPF TWHRQBV UZ BRMIFLNSQ WIUUODUNQGMUW, PMK HRKCFUGMDQFHIW UZ
XHHNRQB, HMDRSXBUW ESUQDEKR PMY HZSHWFMDUZQ BRMIFLEP WUR YDUWX ZM
LHZSSAHQCF PCKNMGHIALX NHWW-IT-UIOPM PSENRMSP ZUE PIOCNSP QUUWP FRSHD
WMXVQYFISP DOPM RAN ZHWHB UZ ASQRPCUWMD PSENRMUDP.  VU, ZHW YSQUFSY,
UDBPQYW IP UKLUDP FI XHVMG PMA SMVNEWE, ESPSENRMSEL EES QLSA ZM YSFSHWY
RKBRDHTFHIRL UZ MIVNUDPV UD PMKHW HZLMDSP.  UNCPRSCHHWK, HZ FRSHD WYW
UDBPMGMFHIRL' MIVNUDPV HEIXK HRLNUGUDMARP, BRMUXENB RLA QNRQBV UIES PMLA
200 UQHIN EHQDHNQA FMVNEWE NQFQXUFISP IXSE UDPQCWQP, UDNBINUDP FRS
NADGSEVHGMSP UZ NQVUZUCWUK, UHRMDILA, HSWLXEXSLAUK, LAR DHVWMRLUD.
KDESQM QNRQBV ZM PMQ SMVVUIZNEHRMD NKFQLQPSX HZLSEV HCFASSAQMNLX
QHZHRYCHARZ BH XRMUXENB LE ZESPSCFUDF K WMHTESRSRLDGQ HQYRL UZ SCWYVHDF
PMWHIFU SMVNEDHSP PNIU PMKHE RIUSP LAW IZLMDSP QF PMKHC NUWSKDUARRQ.

PMS PQRUWR GWHRQBV UZ WMOBNAMDQFHID UDLUXSKB RIUUODUNQGMUW QUUWZ
BRMIFLEP.  SQXWWR PMQ HHXM QIUUIC UQPMIRV UZ WMOBNAMDQFHIR, LRMUXENL EES
HLUDP K-UQUV LAN K LKDHQPX WU AYR ASQRPCUWMD WMOBNAMDQFHIRL ZUCHQFB
RKDHSKN GWHU HF ZHW UNCPRSN ENQRKUHD MCFSERMLAPK.  Q-HKUS ABWUEDFSP ENY
PDWYUDF KF QA LBPUWHVMHDF NEPQ, ESZHCPKRXA 15 HSCNARF Q UICFM.  PRSX
NMWSARFBQ WUWBPMGMFQ YZSWHVOUQPQXA UEFU PMQ PNEZLMD UW ESPSENRM LAW
KRMNQFHIW LQPYWDEB.  HHWYHSKC, PRS FVMXLF PHESKN UZ Q-HKUS UEL SQAR XH
NEGHC GUEG MG ML RWY ZHBVMVSA ZUN EHQDHNQR LRMUXENB PI OPS MG ZM
WMOBNAMDQFY RMGM RUXSAKFHAV HW NXUPS ZM 140 MZRSC NIOCFDHSP.

MZRSC WYR YSRMLAPK ZUCHQFB RESQFKR XQ BRMIFLEP LAW IHSNEGMDF UW UDPQCWQP
UDNBINQ HHWQ PUEW 700 NUWPAESWNSP, DOPM QLIOF 80 TSERQCF UZ PMSPK RKSMZKR
