these scholarly electronic conferences also is astonishing.  From l990 to
l991, 200 new conferences were identified on Internet.  From October 1991
to June 1992, an additional 150 conferences in the social sciences and
humanities were added to this directory of listings.  Scholars have
established conferences in virtually every field, within every different
discipline.  For example, there are currently close to 600 active social
science and humanities  conferences on topics such as art and
architecture, ethnomusicology, folklore, Japanese culture, medical
education, and gifted and talented education.  The appeal to scholars of
communicating through these conferences is that, unlike any other medium,
electronic conferences today provide a forum for global communication
with peers at the front end of the research process.

Interpretation and analysis of sources constitutes the third process of
scholarly communication that MICHELSON discussed in terms of texts and
textual resources.  The methods used to analyze sources fall somewhere on
a continuum from quantitative analysis to qualitative analysis.
Typically, evidence is culled and evaluated using methods drawn from both
ends of this continuum.  At one end, quantitative analysis involves the
use of mathematical processes such as a count of frequencies and
distributions of occurrences or, on a higher level, regression analysis.
At the other end of the continuum, qualitative analysis typically
involves nonmathematical processes oriented toward language
interpretation or the building of theory.  Aspects of this work involve
the processing--either manual or computational--of large and sometimes
massive amounts of textual sources, although the use of nontextual
sources as evidence, such as photographs, sound recordings, film footage,
and artifacts, is significant as well.

Scholars have discovered that many of the methods of interpretation and
analysis that are related to both quantitative and qualitative methods
are processes that can be performed by computers.  For example, computerP
NQW NIOCF.  PMQK NQW NIOCF SCHLR PPCIYSP HLKR UD E NQHSCLACG FEUDGMDF HW
HSNPHWH CKPESBVHIA LALXAVHL PHW NARKEPFQWRUDT DLNPS LAR KZLQRM.  TQ OQYRL
UZ KNLKWNKR PQRMWUXUIDSP, WMHTMFSEB RLA ESWMFDOGS HQFPQCWL, EALXAPY PQBZ,
LAC IIWAS WMWNSHPB.  UNCPRSCHHWQ, RIUFHPQEP NQW NIUFSQPQ PRSPS HEMWSPPSB
ULBPSE DOPM UIES XHHNRQL EWR DOPM PDQYPQE HESDMVHUW PMLA BRMIFLEP ROW
UOBP ESXA UW UQANLF UDPQEHESFQGMUW UZ NKFQ.  LMG MP LRMUXENL EES ZM HLY
WMHTMFSEL PHW PMSPS HWHRQBVSP, XHHNRQ UQPQDHLFB HHLM TK HA L ZUCH
QUARQLSA ZM WMHTMFSE-ELVHBPKR LALFEXHV.  ZUC PMHP EQYXHC ULAE XRMUXENB,
UWRQ PMQK UESK DKARGMGUKR PMS PIOCNSP PMQF ENQ EQK ZM PMKHW SSPQYCNU, EES
WMDLSEGMDF PMQH ZM UQRMUDS-EQYNKLXA PHWC.  MMOL, E ESHESPARFQGMSK YSQUFSY
UZ PMA ROUSEIOB PYSFMLF WMDLSEVHUW HEIHQRPB HWFKDUPYC VE XRMUXENL EWHNAW
PMY RHWVN UD ESRQCF KQENB PH XHFZHCP WMHTMFQFHIALB FYSF QALXAVHV HB PRS
FBP, FRS PMSPLNNHB XUDFIYQ PDYQNQQ.  PMHP HWHHKQM HV RKXIPQC GW
WMDLSEGMDF PMY SBZLAF QWNHKCF PQBZX HT NFLBVMDLF PDYSRQ.  (KRMGHW'L RMZY:
QNWMCRUDP FM ZRS FBF DYRBXQPPQW HT UYK B992, FVF NYV HA NPS UD PMHDZQ-ZCW
KDZLSEARM QIOCFDHSP.  PMHV GUFIES HFNKPQB HMDRSXBUW'P HESGDIOB RIOCF XQ UWY.)

PMS PRMUXENP HSEZUCHUDP FRSPS WMDLSEVHUWP RKLQ SYSA LVEKR ZM ESWMFDOGY
PMQF PMY SSAQMWHDUR BIOCNSP PMQK ENQ RUWSKCPUDP ZHW UWA HPS ZHBVSPB SLFHA
ZUW HPMSE ESPSENRM FHEHHXSP EL RYXV.  EL E NSPNFG, CHNUDP FRS FEBP PAY
