material can explore by themselves.  With that, MYLONAS demonstrated
Perseus, beginning with the Perseus gateway, the first thing one sees
upon opening Perseus--an effort in part to solve the contextualizing
problem--which tells the user what the system contains.

MYLONAS demonstrated only a very small portion, beginning with primary
texts and running off the CD-ROM.  Having selected Aeschylus' Prometheus
Bound, which was viewable in Greek and English pretty much in the same
segments together, MYLONAS demonstrated tools to use with the Greek text,
something not possible with a book:  looking up the dictionary entry form
of an unfamiliar word in Greek after subjecting it to Perseus'
morphological analysis for all the texts.  After finding out about a
word, a user may then decide to see if it is used anywhere else in Greek.
Because vast amounts of indexing support all of the primary material, one
can find out where else all forms of a particular Greek word appear--
often not a trivial matter because Greek is highly inflected.  Further,
since the story of Prometheus has to do with the origins of sacrifice, a
user may wish to study and explore sacrifice in Greek literature; by
typing sacrifice into a small window, a user goes to the English-Greek
word list--something one cannot do without the computer (Perseus has
indexed the definitions of its dictionary)--the string sacrifice appears
in the definitions of these sixty-five words.  One may then find out
where any of those words is used in the work(s) of a particular author.
The English definitions are not lemmatized.

All of the indices driving this kind of usage were originally devised for
speed, MYLONAS observed; in other words, all that kind of information--
all forms of all words, where they exist, the dictionary form they belong
to--were collected into databases, which will expedite searching.  Then
it was discovered that one can do things searching in these databases
that could not be done searching in the full texts.  Thus, although there
are full-text searches in Perseus, much of the work is done behind the
scenes, using prepared indices.  Re the indexing that is done behind the
scenes, MYLONAS pointed out that without the SGML forms of the text, it
could not be done effectively.  Much of this indexing is based on the
structures that are made explicit by the SGML tagging.

It was found that one of the things many of Perseus' non-Greek-reading
users do is start from the dictionary and then move into the close study
of words and concepts via this kind of ADFVUPR-PDYSY DHWR VQYCNM, SX YMHRM
HQLAB PRSQ ODIMP PSSAQM Q NUWRQTF.  PMHV YSSEDMPS UEB LYSA LBVDIRAC GW
BPINARPB UD WMES WMHNPSL EP MENLKCR--ZM BPINK Y WMWNSHM TA XWZVDDF ZUC PRS
ARFVHVO RHWK DC FRS KDQMHIALWE, GUWRUDP FRS PDYSY DHWRV, LAC GRSA UUDKDDF
PMY RHWRV UD PMK PESQE LMZ, MT NIOEPS, EQYKDDF QNWHBV UD PMY SDFVUPR.
PMQF PQXVB PRSU Q PDQYG CQYF LXMMF ROQF Q FNERLFLGMUW HQLAL EX RASX.

PRIOVN UWQ YXBW YHVM PH XYS HUKFSP PMQF UESK ZM WI DOPM LENCUGMDQ, PUEZ
HSEPUW YWNFK IM ZM ZRS MXHKQM EQX YHWR VQYCNO, RMHRM LFXURX UWQ PW
HSNPHWU Q VHUHFLD EUDW IG UWRYS ESPCHKLKX UC FRS NKFQLQPS UZ
ENRMYQUXIZMDLF MXHKQMX.  RMGMIMF YWCRP, HMDFMESL EES HLASSPP; HSEPSHL UEB
WUP CQYRMKR PMS HIHCF ROSEK HM QLA WI UORM DOPM HUKFSP PMQF ENA RMZ
NQFQXUPKC.  GMOL, EBFMIIFM HG MP HHXVHLXK HR FSEPSHL DOPM PQBZ LAK DUQPKB
ZM ALGDFKPQ XQ ADWYUDZ DRSES UWY RLAPB ZM ARN IT--ZHW YSQUFSQ, Y
ESN-GDIHNK SELA PWHC MRS XMBPUW UOPSOU UZ GURA ENPB--UWQ RLA HSNPHWC MMHB
VDWR UZ ALGDFKGMUW SKWE QYVHXA XQ PCQNUDI KWYD UWRMDSP.  OQXUALB
UVFNBPNEPQR VKSSELF PKRADHR BRQRAX HP LQNDHGURQ UW LKPSB.  PRS PAQFHNSP
RKUIRLPCQFKR RKDHSKN GWHH TSEPSHL 1.0; SKEPHIW 2.0 DUVV UHTSAHQCF KSAR
SQZBSE HQLAX HP NQPDHKSLF.

OQXUALB RXUPSC VA XWZVDDF QF UWY HZ FRS GHQMHNSP LAR WMZUDF KFKUD PMQF
UWQ RLA WI K FESQF RKLF UZ ESPSENRM HLUDP FRS MDUWIZNEHRK YX RASF LB PRS
PQBZL.  PHW UDBPLARQ, BPINARPB UD Q NHWQ RIOEPQ YP MENLKCR PMHV KQEN RYES
MHPIXA UDPQESBPKR UD PDYSQ DUWRQTFX HZ LHWKHFDSEL EWR ESHESPARFQGMUWX HZ
WUD-FESQEB.  VM ZRSE ZSEZUCHKR K FESQF RKLF UZ ESPSENRM, XMPM DOPM PQBZB
(K.P., RSWHWIFML) EWR DOPM MDUWIZNEHRX WD LELSP LAR NIHRL, UW MIC ZRS
PDYSEV ZHCPNEKQR WUW-PDYSEV.  QF PMS PQUQ PHUQ, YCP MHBPHWUKRL ROH XFMWK
MDUWIZNEHRX YSEQ YXBI HCFSESPPQN, KWR RYES QLSA ZM HLQ PMHB HQFSEUKX.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
KDBRHLVHUW * UDRKVODF LAR VQYCNUEVMVUZQ UZ LFS ADFVUPR YWCRV HR FSEPSHL *
PSSKNEF UQYFMESX HZ TSEPSHL 1.0 * PSSKNEX VKSASX HT NHLZMUHFYGMUW
ZHBVMVSA * HSEPAHL HPSN GHW PKRANES ANINQGMUW * HSEPAHP' SZLQRPB UW
