quality reproduction of a deteriorating original than conventional
light-lens technology.  2) Because a digital image is an encoded
representation, it can be reproduced again and again with no resulting
loss of quality, as opposed to the situation with light-lens processes,
in which there is discernible difference between a second and a
subsequent generation of an image.  3) A digital image can be manipulated
in a number of ways to improve image capture; for example, Xerox has
developed a windowing application that enables one to capture a page
containing both text and illustrations in a manner that optimizes the
reproduction of both.  (With light-lens technology, one must choose which
to optimize, text or the illustration; in preservation microfilming, the
current practice is to shoot an illustrated page twice, once to highlight
the text and the second time to provide the best capture for the
illustration.)  4) A digital image can also be edited, density levels
adjusted to remove underlining and stains, and to increase legibility for
faint documents.  5) On-screen inspection can take place at the time of
initial setup and adjustments made prior to scanning, factors that
substantially reduce the number of retakes required in quality control.

A primary goal of CXP has been to evaluate the paper output printed on
the Xerox DocuTech, a high-speed printer that produces 600-dpi pages from
scanned images at a rate of 135 pages a minute.  KENNEY recounted several
publishing challenges to represent faithful and legible reproductions of
the originals that the 600-dpi copy for the most part successfully
captured.  For example, many of the deteriorating volumes in the project
were heavily illustrated with fine line drawings or halftones or came in
languages such as Japanese, in which the buildup of characters comprised
of varying strokes is difficult to reproduce at lower resolutions; a
surprising number of them came with annotations and mathematical
formulas, which it was critical to be able to duplicate exactly.

KENNEY noted that 1) the copies are being printed on paper that meets the
ANSI standards for performance, 2) the DocuTech printer meets the machine
and toner requirements for proper adhesion of print to page, as described
by the National Archives, and thus 3) paper product is considered to be
the archival equivalent of preservation photocopy.

KENNEY then discussed several samples of the quality achieved in the
project that had been distributed in a handout, for example, a copy of a
print-on-demand version of the 1911 Reed lecture on the steam turbine,
which contains halftones, line drawings, and illustrations embedded in
text; the first four loose pages in the volume compared the capture
capabilities of scanning to photocopy for a standard test target, the
IEEE standard 167A 1987 test chart.  In all instances scanning proved
superior to photocopy, though only slightly more so in one.

Conceding the simplistic nature of her review of the quality of scanning
to photocopy, KENNEY described it as one representation of the kinds of
settings that could be used with scanning capabilities on the equipment
CXP uses.  KENNEY also pointed out that CXP investigated the quality
achieved with binary scanning only, and noted the great promise in gray
scale and color scanning, whose advantages and disadvantages need to be
examined.  She argued further that scanning resolutions and file formats
can represent a complex trade-off between the time it takes to capture
material, file size, fidelity to the original, and on-screen display; and
printing and equipment availability.  All these factors must be taken
into consideration.

CXP placed primary emphasis on the production in a timely and
cost-effective manner of printed facsimiles that consisted largely of
black-and-white text.  With binary scanning, large files may be
compressed efficiently and in a lossless manner (i.e., no data is lost in
the process of compressing [and decompressing] an image--the exact
bit-representation is maintained) using Group 4 CCITT (i.e., the French
acronym for International Consultative Committee for Telegraph and
Telephone) compression.  CXP was getting compression ratios of about
forty to one.  Gray-scale compression, which primarily uses JPEG, is much
less economical and can represent a lossy compression (i.e., not
lossless), so that as one compresses and decompresses, the illustration
is subtly changed.  While binary files produce a high-quality printed
version, it appears 1) that other combinations of spatial resolution with
gray and/or color hold great promise as well, and 2) that gray scale can
represent a tremendous advantage for on-screen viewing.  The quality
associated with binary and gray scale also depends on the equipment used.
For instance, binary scanning produces a much better copy on a binary
printer.

Among CXP's findings concerning the production of microfilm from digital
files, KENNEY reported that the digital files for the same Reed lecture
were used to produce sample film using an electron beam recorder.  The
resulting film was faithful to the image capture of the digital files,
and while CXP felt that the text and image pages represented in the Reed
lecture were superior to that of the light-lens film, the resolution
readings for the 600 dpi were not as high as standard microfilming.
KENNEY argued that the standards defined for light-lens technology are
not totally transferable to a digital environment.  Moreover, they are
based on definition of quality for a preservation copy.  Although making
this case will prove to be a long, uphill struggle, CXP plans to continue
to investigate the issue over the course of the next year.

KENNEY concluded this portion of her talk with a discussion of the
advantages of creating film:  it can serve as a primary backup and as a
preservation master to the digital file; it could then become the print
or production master and service copies could be paper, film, optical
disks, magnetic media, or on-screen display.

Finally, KENNEY presented details re production:

     * Development and testing of a moderately-high resolution production
     scanning workstation represented a third goal of CXP; to date, 1,000
     volumes have been scanned, or about 300,000 images.

     * The resulting digital files are stored and used to produce
     hard-copy replacements for the originals and additional prints on
     demand; although the initial costs are high, scanning technology
     offers an affordable means for reformatting brittle material.

     * A technician in production mode can scan 300 pages per hour when
     performing single-sheet scanning, which is a necessity when working
     with truly brittle paper; this figure is expected to increase
     significantly with subsequent iterations of the software from Xerox;
     a three-month time-and-cost study of scanning found that the average
     300-page book would take about an hour and forty minutes to scan
     (this figure included the time for setup, which involves keying in
     primary bibliographic data, going into quality control mode to
     define page size, establishing front-to-back registration, and
     scanning sample pages to identify a default range of settings for
     the entire book--functions not dissimilar to those performed by
     filmers or those preparing a book for photocopy).

     * The final step in the scanning process involved rescans, which
     happily were few and far between, representing well under 1 percent
     of the total pages scanned.

In addition to technician time, CXP costed out equipment, amortized over
four years, the cost of storing and refreshing the digital files every
four years, and the cost of printing and binding, book-cloth binding, a
paper reproduction.  The total amounted to a little under $65 per single
300-page volume, with 30 percent overhead included--a figure competitive
with the prices currently charged by photocopy vendors.

Of course, with scanning, in addition to the paper facsimile, one is left
with a digital file from which subsequent copies of the book can be
produced for a fraction of the cost of photocopy, with readers afforded
choices in the form of these copies.

KENNEY concluded that digital technology offers an electronic means for a
library preservation effort to pay for itself.  If a brittle-book program
included the means of disseminating reprints of books that are in demand
by libraries and researchers alike, the initial investment in capture
could be recovered and used to preserve additional but less popular
books.  She disclosed that an economic model for a self-sustaining
program could be developed for CXP's report to the Commission on
Preservation and Access (CPA).

KENNEY stressed that the focus of CXP has been on obtaining high quality
in a production environment.  The use of digital technology is viewed as
an affordable alternative to other reformatting options.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
ANDRE * Overview and history of NATDP * Various agricultural CD-ROM
products created inhouse and by service bureaus * Pilot project on
Internet transmission * Additional products in progress *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Pamela ANDRE, associate director for automation, National Agricultural
Text Digitizing Program (NATDP), National Agricultural Library (NAL),
presented an overview of NATDP, which has been underway at NAL the last
four years, before Judith ZIDAR discussed the technical details.  ANDRE
defined agricultural information as a broad range of material going from
basic and applied research in the hard sciences to the one-page pamphlets
that are distributed by the cooperative state extension services on such
things as how to grow blueberries.

NATDP began in late 1986 with a meeting of representatives from the
land-grant library community to deal with the issue of electronic
information.  NAL and forty-five of these libraries banded together to
establish this project--to evaluate the technology for converting what
were then source documents in paper form into electronic form, to provide
access to that digital information, and then to distribute it.
Distributing that material to the community--the university community as
well as the extension service community, potentially down to the county
level--constituted the group's chief concern.

Since January 1988 (when the microcomputer-based scanning system was
installed at NAL), NATDP has done a variety of things, concerning which
ZIDAR would provide further details.  For example, the first technology
considered in the project's discussion phase was digital videodisc, which
indicates how long ago it was conceived.

Over the four years of this project, four separate CD-ROM products on
four different agricultural topics were created, two at a
scanning-and-OCR station installed at NAL, and two by service bureaus.
Thus, NATDP has gained comparative information in terms of those relative
costs.  Each of these products contained the full ASCII text as well as
page images of the material, or between 4,000 and 6,000 pages of material
on these disks.  Topics included aquaculture, food, agriculture and
science (i.e., international agriculture and research), acid rain, and
Agent Orange, which was the final product distributed (approximately
eighteen months before the Workshop).

The third phase of NATDP focused on delivery mechanisms other than
CD-ROM.  At the suggestion of Clifford LYNCH, who was a technical
consultant to the project at this point, NATDP became involved with the
Internet and initiated a project with the help of North Carolina State
University, in which fourteen of the land-grant university libraries are
transmitting digital images over the Internet in response to interlibrary
loan requests--a topic for another meeting.  At this point, the pilot
project had been completed for about a year and the final report would be
available shortly after the Workshop.  In the meantime, the project's
success had led to its extension.  (ANDRE noted that one of the first
things done under the program title was to select a retrieval package to
use with subsequent products; Windows Personal Librarian was the package
of choice after a lengthy evaluation.)

Three additional products had been planned and were in progress:

     1) An arrangement with the American Society of Agronomy--a
     professional society that has published the Agronomy Journal since
     about 1908--to scan and create bit-mapped images of its journal.
     ASA granted permission first to put and then to distribute this
     material in electronic form, to hold it at NAL, and to use these
     electronic images as a mechanism to deliver documents or print out
     material for patrons, among other uses.  Effectively, NAL has the
     right to use this material in support of its program.
     (Significantly, this arrangement offers a potential cooperative
     model for working with other professional societies in agriculture
     to try to do the same thing--put the journals of particular interest
     to agriculture research into electronic form.)

     2) An extension of the earlier product on aquaculture.

     3) The George Washington Carver Papers--a joint project with
     Tuskegee University to scan and convert from microfilm some 3,500
     images of Carver's papers, letters, and drawings.

It was anticipated that all of these products would appear no more than
six months after the Workshop.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
ZIDAR * (A separate arena for scanning) * Steps in creating a database *
Image capture, with and without performing OCR * Keying in tracking data
* Scanning, with electronic and manual tracking * Adjustments during
scanning process * Scanning resolutions * Compression * De-skewing and
filtering * Image capture from microform:  the papers and letters of
George Washington Carver * Equipment used for a scanning system *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Judith ZIDAR, coordinator, National Agricultural Text Digitizing Program
(NATDP), National Agricultural Library (NAL), illustrated the technical
details of NATDP, including her primary responsibility, scanning and
creating databases on a topic and putting them on CD-ROM.

(ZIDAR remarked a separate arena from the CD-ROM projects, although the
processing of the material is nearly identical, in which NATDP is also
scanning material and loading it on a Next microcomputer, which in turn
is linked to NAL's integrated library system.  Thus, searches in NAL's
bibliographic database will enable people to pull up actual page images
and text for any documents that have been entered.)

In accordance with the session's topic, ZIDAR focused her illustrated
talk on image capture, offering a primer on the three main steps in the
process:  1) assemble the printed publications; 2) design the database
(database design occurs in the process of preparing the material for
scanning; this step entails reviewing and organizing the material,
defining the contents--what will constitute a record, what kinds of
fields will be captured in terms of author, title, etc.); 3) perform a
certain amount of markup on the paper publications.  NAL performs this
task record by record, preparing work sheets or some other sort of
tracking material and designing descriptors and other enhancements to be
added to the data that will not be captured from the printed publication.
Part of this process also involves determining NATDP's file and directory
structure:  NATDP attempts to avoid putting more than approximately 100
images in a directory, because placing more than that on a CD-ROM would
reduce the access speed.

This up-front process takes approximately two weeks for a
6,000-7,000-page database.  The next step is to capture the page images.
How long this process takes is determined by the decision whether or not
to perform OCR.  Not performing OCR speeds the process, whereas text
capture requires greater care because of the quality of the image:  it
has to be straighter and allowance must be made for text on a page, not
just for the capture of photographs.

NATDP keys in tracking data, that is, a standard bibliographic record
including the title of the book and the title of the chapter, which will
later either become the access information or will be attached to the
front of a full-text record so that it is searchable.

Images are scanned from a bound or unbound publication, chiefly from
bound publications in the case of NATDP, however, because often they are
the only copies and the publications are returned to the shelves.  NATDP
usually scans one record at a time, because its database tracking system
tracks the document in that way and does not require further logical
separating of the images.  After performing optical character
recognition, NATDP moves the images off the hard disk and maintains a
volume sheet.  Though the system tracks electronically, all the
processing steps are also tracked manually with a log sheet.

ZIDAR next illustrated the kinds of adjustments that one can make when
scanning from paper and microfilm, for example, redoing images that need
special handling, setting for dithering or gray scale, and adjusting for
brightness or for the whole book at one time.

NATDP is scanning at 300 dots per inch, a standard scanning resolution.
Though adequate for capturing text that is all of a standard size, 300
dpi is unsuitable for any kind of photographic material or for very small
text.  Many scanners allow for different image formats, TIFF, of course,
being a de facto standard.  But if one intends to exchange images with
other people, the ability to scan other image formats, even if they are
less common, becomes highly desirable.

CCITT Group 4 is the standard compression for normal black-and-white
images, JPEG for gray scale or color.   ZIDAR recommended 1) using the
standard compressions, particularly if one attempts to make material
available and to allow users to download images and reuse them from
CD-ROMs; and 2) maintaining the ability to output an uncompressed image,
because in image exchange uncompressed images are more likely to be able
to cross platforms.

ZIDAR emphasized the importance of de-skewing and filtering as
requirements on NATDP's upgraded system.  For instance, scanning bound
books, particularly books published by the federal government whose pages
are skewed, and trying to scan them straight if OCR is to be performed,
is extremely time-consuming.  The same holds for filtering of
poor-quality or older materials.

ZIDAR described image capture from microform, using as an example three
reels from a sixty-seven-reel set of the papers and letters of George
Washington Carver that had been produced by Tuskegee University.  These
resulted in approximately 3,500 images, which NATDP had had scanned by
its service contractor, Science Applications International Corporation
(SAIC).  NATDP also created bibliographic records for access.  (NATDP did
not have such specialized equipment as a microfilm scanner.

Unfortunately, the process of scanning from microfilm was not an
unqualified success, ZIDAR reported:  because microfilm frame sizes vary,
occasionally some frames were missed, which without spending much time
and money could not be recaptured.

OCR could not be performed from the scanned images of the frames.  The
bleeding in the text simply output text, when OCR was run, that could not
even be edited.  NATDP tested for negative versus positive images,
landscape versus portrait orientation, and single- versus dual-page
microfilm, none of which seemed to affect the quality of the image; but
also on none of them could OCR be performed.

In selecting the microfilm they would use, therefore, NATDP had other
factors in mind.  ZIDAR noted two factors that influenced the quality of
the images:  1) the inherent quality of the original and 2) the amount of
size reduction on the pages.

The Carver papers were selected because they are informative and visually
interesting, treat a single subject, and are valuable in their own right.
The images were scanned and divided into logical records by SAIC, then
delivered, and loaded onto NATDP's system, where bibliographic
information taken directly from the images was added.  Scanning was
completed in summer 1991 and by the end of summer 1992 the disk was
scheduled to be published.

Problems encountered during processing included the following:  Because
the microfilm scanning had to be done in a batch, adjustment for
individual page variations was not possible.  The frame size varied on
account of the nature of the material, and therefore some of the frames
were missed while others were just partial frames.  The only way to go
back and capture this material was to print out the page with the
microfilm reader from the missing frame and then scan it in from the
page, which was extremely time-consuming.  The quality of the images
scanned from the printout of the microfilm compared unfavorably with that
of the original images captured directly from the microfilm.  The
inability to perform OCR also was a major disappointment.  At the time,
computer output microfilm was unavailable to test.

The equipment used for a scanning system was the last topic addressed by
ZIDAR.  The type of equipment that one would purchase for a scanning
system included:  a microcomputer, at least a 386, but preferably a 486;
a large hard disk, 380 megabyte at minimum; a multi-tasking operating
system that allows one to run some things in batch in the background
while scanning or doing text editing, for example, Unix or OS/2 and,
theoretically, Windows; a high-speed scanner and scanning software that
allows one to make the various adjustments mentioned earlier; a
high-resolution monitor (150 dpi ); OCR software and hardware to perform
text recognition; an optical disk subsystem on which to archive all the
images as the processing is done; file management and tracking software.

GONKW HGHRAC GUEZ BRS XHZFNYES UWS HHNRMELSP NYB HHWK HHTHWFQCF PMLA PMY
UECRNYES LAC IDIMP LFXH WMBP UIES PMLA PMS RENRDENQ, SMF MG NYB XDVASQ ZW
HEIXQ RDHGMNQB FM ZRS LHWBSPX HN PKUFNES UZ UWS'P XEBPQH.  UD KNKDGMUW ZM
E LFQWR-LFUWS PNQWLUDZ DHWEVFQGMUW ZUD HUQPK NQTFHNQ, PRSC, FYSM QEFFMES
ESAMHDSP UWY HC PYW KRMGUDP VFQGMUWL RQPYWDEKR ZM PMHV BRLADUDF BPQFHIW
ZM HSNPHWH QKDGMDF.  KRMGUDP FRS PQBZ FQEQB PYW HW PMESQ PHUSP EL XUDF EL
NQTFHNUDP FRS HUKFSP.

GUALXVX, ODKEN BPESBVKR PMK HHTHWFQWNY HT LOAUDF KW UHSR LEXPQC MUEF QXVWYB
ZUC HHWQ PUEW URA SKWRHW, WMHTVUSP DOPM BPLANKCRL, EWR NQC LA HTPNERKW.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
NYPQEP *KYSA NADGSEVHZQ VUSCENE'X UQBPSE FSLA ZM WMDLSEM CMDWHGUBU ZM
KDIDFQV UUQPKWE (ZHT) * MRS FSQNY HP ASAQMWHDUQ MWZXB UD PMA SMVNEWE UZ
PMA PMFHNQ * PRS HLSP UZ HUKFSP LAN KD UUQPK VUSCENE * ZDHUQWE UDFHF ZWHO
HESPSELKGMUW UHNCUZUVU * TQYFMESV RHVGMDFOHPRUDP TMX PNIU WBF EWR EQX
OEZHPMSPSP FIDKUDP TMX * HLY HG LARWIE PASQRGMUW HEMWSPB PU ZQNUVMGQFY
HWFKDUFYGMUWLF YWDE * NCMGSEUK ZUE PASQRGMDF SKWRHW * GUALVUBPL EWR
ESLHBFX HZ TWHRQBV ZUW ELFQ * EQK ULQMHW KDBPUDFIHVMHDF SKWRHWB *
WMHTUWARPB, RKVHFD HEUDDMFSSP, LAR VIUY SBPHUQFKR WMBPX HZ TMX * WHSA UZ
HESPSELKGMUW UQPQDHLFV HW RKSASHZUDI DUQIDDF UQDEQP * ULQMHWL EZLQRGMDF
AMLFMGK YWR WMBP * ULQMHWL EZLQRGMDF PMA HLEVMVUZQ UZ WMHTSAV WMWOUARPB
UD HUKFA PHWO *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

WIALVN NYPQEP, RSKN UZ PMS PEXPQHB UZGURQ, KYSA NADGSEVHZQ VUSCENX,
ESZHCPKR UW PMS HWHPDSPX HU L UQBPSE FSLA ZUN E HEIHQRF QZ QLFQ PW
WMDLSEM CMDWHGUBU ZM KDIDFQV UUQPKWE, HEIHQRZ MHSC LWZE (GMX).  BPQFUDZ
PMQF ZHX CEL UD LA KNLKWNKR BPKFY HZ TFLWLUDZ, DQFSEV RQPKUSAK, DW
FECPMDNFEN, PMS HWHRQBV UZ PSSAQMUDF K SKWRHW FECPRAN EWR PSSKNEV AQK
HVLHSP NARKC RHVNMBVHIA LX ELFS HESFEESB PI UIXK HCFM ZRS HEIHQRG MPBASZ.
RS WMOBARPQN GHDBP UW PMK SHVHIC FUEP BSESKL EB PRS WMCFYSZ MZ TMX LAW
PMAR RKBRDHSQK DPB FHEHHXQ YWR BRHZY.

NYPQEP PSSP PMA SMVNEWE UZ PMA PMFHNA RMZ RARQBVENUVK YL ER ASAQMWHDUW
VUSCENQ XMF EL E FFLRQ PMQF PKRANEPQP, HESPSDSSP, LAK DHTWHSKL PHW MGB
NBHKCFP EQYWK QNRQBV ZM XMPM UDPQXVQRFMLF LAR GOEVHNQS NQRHWRKW
ADWYSAKIY.  SSAQMWHDUQ MWZXB UOBP GUWR E FFLRQ UD PMA SMVNEWE UD PMY
WMCFYSZ MZ FMHB SHVHIR.  LKSSELF WHSAL PHW ASQRPCUWMD ZMUXV HWNFNRK
PSDSUDF KV:  HWRHDQRP BIOCNSP UZ ASQRPCUWMD ADWYSAKIY HN EL "PUDKDDF"
KURV (PMY HA-FUDQ RQFLFIZHAB, PRS ENGMNBA-SKSAS UDKDRQP, EKPHVPQEP ZUW
WINMHQCFL EWR ENRMDGSP); KDESQM XHHNRQX HP NQRHWRKK VWUNXKRPK; UNXV-PQBZ
HUKFSP; LAK GENHIHL VDWRX HT NIUZHNAR VIOCNSP UZ ESWMCRKR ADWYSAKIQ (PRS
XH-NQXVKR WMHTIOWR WINMHQCFX HP UEZSEPQBZ, UHSYC GYSF QWR HUKFY,
UHSYC-GYSG MUQPK ZUCHQF, LAC INFGMHQKDY).

ZHV MB XWZVDDF FECPMDNFENXA QF HUKFSP LAN KD UUQPK VUSCENQ, ZRS HLSP ZM
ROMDM HUQPKX RUVX LS HMF (K.P., BPHWKFS, HDHCFUDT, VWHRXUDF, KWR PMAR HLY
EL UDFHF ZHW MZRSE HWHRQBVSP), MWN EL E LHLBQAHACF HEMWSPB PI HUQPK
NQTFHNY, HC NESQFUDF KD UUQPK VUSCENK, YWR LFXH ZHBVMVXA PKRANEGMDF
UHNCUZUVO.

ROUVK HRFMF DOXV WMHQ PNIU K LENHKZQ UZ XHHNRQP, HMX HV WMRLDKSEUDZ
SPHSDMLFXA UDFHF ZWHH TESPSDSQFHIC UMDWHGUBU.  E FHXVHLXY HMFWMHQ HV PMQF
PMA PUVU QWR FEHSC DMHRM HEIXDKQ PRS UDFHF ZHW PMK HUQPK VUSCENX
KSARFMLFXA UQK ZW ZZL UDZM ESUIPQ BPHWKFQ, YWR PMQF PMK HUQPK VUSCENQ OYK
SQ PMS HDHUQWE QNRQBV ZMUX.

PMS HHNZHPS LAR VWMHS UZ ZHL TMWHL UW HUKFUDP.  FMIIFR EASQFKR ZM WBZ,
ZHS MEL ZCU ZQYFMESX RMHRM KDBPUDFIHVM HP:  1) BNQSA--WMDLSEVHUW UZ
10,000 XIFNHQV HCFI WDIMGLF HUKFA PHWU; QWR 2) XHHNRQ--WMDLSEVHUW PNIU
UHNCUZUVI.  TDGAR PMSPA PQYFMESB, VKSSELF EQX YHWVDDF OEZHPMSPSP FIDKY
ZHV, MWNFNKDDF:  1) VHWNS HMX HV HLUDT IMDWHGUBU, MG HV WUM QUWRQCWKR DOPM
PMK HUQPK VUSCENK YL E HESPSELKGMUW HQKDOU.  2) KDIDFQV UUQPKWE NQD UHTWHSK
QNRQBV ZM ESWMCRKR ADWYSAKIQ PREIOPI HEUDGMDF LAR WQPYWDE KDBPDHLMGMUW QF
Q UIWSPG MWNESHQCFLF WMBP UZ UHNCUZUVC.  3) QEFFMDHDF LAR VZMDHDF WINMHQCFB
UD K NDIMGLF HUKFA PHWU HL RQRSPLEWE ZM UNCPRSD HHTWHSKHQCFV HA LWBSPB.
(ZHV CHVGMDFOHPRSP SQZCYSC FRS HUKFUDI, KDIMGOGUDP TWHRQBV LAW INC,
ROMDU EZ BMHB VFQPK MG WISP WUF TFLC FH ZSEZUCH.)

NMWSARFBK OD UPB GUEPZ MW HDPLAOGQFHIALS FUEPS, ZHL TIOWR PMQF MG WMNFW
HLQ Y SKWRHW PSSAQMHIR FWHRQBV ZM ULDMVUFQPQ K FWZW VQYX UZ FRS
HWFKDUFYGMUWLF YWDE (K.P., NCQYGMDF E FWHHKQM PQQU LAN KKGHVHWQ XUYCR,
WMAUHDUHDF PMK SLFDKMGX WZ FRS FSLA, SPFQLXHVMHDF PMQ RHXZ MZ FRS HEIHQRZ
LAN K LMKIQP, PSSAQMUDP FRS UQPQDHLFB PM WUWSKCP, LAC GRSW CKUVHDF PMY
RARQBVENA ZNARV).

ZHV CKSASHZKR ANHQWHHL PSSAQMHIW NDHPQDHK, UWNFNKDDF:  L UHDC QIUUHZBKR
ZM HUKFK-RMWOUARM CLAKFQHARZ, BRS QLUVMGQ ZH XSESK EL XEBPQHV HCFKPNEZMW
UD L FENPK-BRLFS HWHHKQM IXSE PSSKNEX AQYEP, UDPQESBP UD RKSKXUGHDF PMY
ESAMHVMGS PUZZCENQ YL E BPLANKCR NEPMSE PMLA Q NHLZMH TWHNIQM, LAN K
DOXVUDFDSPB PI HDLSPP BMLBPLAGMLF ESXHHNRQV HC FRS HEIHQRG MPBASZ.

ZCI XARWIEP, RKN QWR SYWHZ, YSES PASQRPQN KL PUDLFHVPB UD MWZMSQW 1991,
LAR DMGM PRS LHZSHWZ MZ FRS WMOBHVVHUW UW HESPSELKGMUW LAN KWBSPP, SQNO
NYB RIUUHBVHIRAC GI ZARSEQFQ Y RKFQUVKR ESAMHDQHARPB LALFEXHV ZUC PRS
HEIHQRF QWR PMAR ZM LHTCMG L UHWUQS FWHZHLEF UHW PMQ RIUFSQPHIW UZ FRS
HEIHQRZ, CMHRM UDNBINKR Q LINPKF QWR WMBPB. PRS PQCHX RSEQ PUEF TMX YWNFW
FEQ ZRS XUPSC.  PRS ESLHBFL PHW KYSA UZ UDXIXSUDF K SKWRHW UDNBINKR:
SCUYK DDLUXSKHQCF UZ KYSA BPLUU LNCHXB PRS XMENN KF Q ESFLGMSKXA XUY
WMBP, ROMDM UYK UESK XUDF-PQCH VHFDUGMDLARQ UD NQWSKODF IOZ BRS HEIHQRZ
(ZCARZQ-GUSK ZM PMHDZQ NADGSEVHZQ HSHZSA ENY SDFKFKR UD ZHL); VQPPQW
NARKEPFQWRUDZ IZ FRS ULQMHWB PUEF QZLQRM QHWZHNEPQ ESPHUWPS ZM UQDEQPB
ZUD HUQIDDF HEIWMNPB; Q NIUHSGMGMSK HEHZHXLF; LAN K UIES XHHRHVGMNQPQW
GDYR UZ PMK HUQIDDF UQDEQPB.

PMQ HHXG MHTHWFQCF ULQMHW PMQF KDBPUDFIHVRSC GRS SKWRHWL HWRSE
WMRLDKSEQFHIW DEL PMKHD HRKCFUGMDQFHIW DMGM PRS NMBPIUSE.  PMS POGQ YWR
UDPQCWLF WMHTSAVOZQ UZ PMQ RIUFEWA LFXH NYL ED UHTHWFQCF ULQMHW.  ZHX CEL
XUIYUDF KF BENPK WMHTLAHKB PUEP MKN LHLBFQCFUKS NSPIOCNSP.  UD PMY SWR,
PMS HWHRQBV PKRANEPQN GHW KYSA ZCM WIUHSGMGMSK HEHZHXLFX, RMGO SSEWZ'B
PMQ RSAEN DOWLSE.  NYPQEP PMAR RKBRDHSQC GRS WMHTUWARPB UZ PMS HWHZHLEX,
PMK RSPDIR FDHWNHGSAL, EWR XHHQ UZ PMQ RHXPB SPGMUQPQN GHW PMS HWHRQBV.

WMHTUWARPB ENY SBVARGMLFXA ZUHN:  Q NUWSKEPHIR LMLXEBPQH, Y
RAZCHWE-YWBSPVHLXS PZMNEPK LHLBEXPQU THW 10,000 XMIYL (EWR ZHS QSZQRPB
200 ZM 600 RGH VZMNEPK), SCWYVHDF BPQFHIRL KDBPDHLMPQW IC FRS NQHTHL
RAZCHWE, YWR RAZCHWE YWBSPB PM ZRS HUKFS HDHCFSEB.

QUUWP FRS RKVHFD HEUDDMFSSP, ZHX CLAPQR NUWSKEPHIA LZ BRS MHPISPZ
ZHBVMVSA ESXHFNGMUW.  ELLHUHDF GMZL GUSAB, PUGZ LUVSP DOPM PDIOZ 4
WMHTESBVHIC, FRT/HG, LAR KPMSERAF CQPYWDE UW NQHTHL, ZHX CLAPQN K
NBHKCF-PSDSSE EFHEUYRM DOPM HUKFK RMWOUARPB KDBPDHLMPQC GM ZRS
YWDEBPQFHIRL LAC IKNQ YWBSPVHLXQ PREIOPI ALGMSK YWDEBPQFHID UCFSEULRQB
LHRM EL DOWRWYP.  HMX LFXH UDVHBPKR UW E FUEPSN KZSWHQNM PW
HUFSQHARFQGMUW:  1) E LFQWR-LFUWS, PUDFVA-HPSN, SWY-WMBP ARPCK OCFM ZRS
LMVHRABV DOPM Y NHWEVFQGMUW ZUNMPSW IW NUWSKEPHIA LWR LFXUDODF ZHT MW
YSFSHWA HPSN EWBSPB; 2) HIXQHARG MCFU Y MHPISE-XIFNHQ WMDLSEVHUW DOPM
RAZCHWE-YWBSPVHLXS PZMNEPK LAC INFGMFSQ YWBSPB VFQGMUWL; EWR 3) Y
MHPI-XIFNHQ WMDLSEVHUW, UNXV-NQFEDMZQ BPHWKFQ, YWR UOBFHGSA SCWYVHDF
BPQFHIRL KDBPDHLMPQC GREIOPIIOZ BRS NQHTHL.

PMQ RHXPB HEHZHXKR ZUE PFQCP-HF ELLHHQC GRS YSHVPQWNY HZ FRS KYSA RAZCHWY
LAK DPB ZCI WMWMFQRM HUQPK HEUDPQEP.  MZRSE PFQCP-HF WMBPL EES SPGMUQPQW
QF $1 UHXVHIW USKC PRS PMESS HUEPSL.  EZ BRS ARW IZ FRS HEIHQRZ, BRS LAANLF
HZSEQFUDT DHXPB SPGMUQPQR GDHUQDHXA ZUC PRS XHZFNYES LAR IENRDENS HWHZHPSW
WMHQ ZM QLIOM $60,000, TMF PMSPY SBWFNRK WMBPL PHW FLXMC WYSRKK DC FRS
WMDLSEVHUW HEMWSPL, RQPYWDE LAR GDHCFSE HLKFQ, YWR ULDMVUGMSP UQALPKHQCF.

GUALXVQ, ZRS PSSAQMHIR FWHRQBV HEIWMNKR ZUW ELFQ Y UIES XHHRHVGMNQPQW
GDYR UZ PMK HUQIDDF UQDEQPB:  PRS UQALPKHQCF UZ WMHTSAV WMWOUARPB UD
HUKFA PHWU HL RMZ E FESPSDSQFHIR FWHLXQH, WUF Q VUSCENE ZWHLXQH, LMF Q
PKRANES FWHLXQH UD Q LWHKN, PKRANEV UWRHLPCE.  ZESPSDSQFHIC UQFSEUKXB ENY
HLAPNF ZUC RKSASHZUDP FUEM CENEQM TQRLNPS UZ PMQ ANLVUGMSP UZ PMY
UQPQDHLF.  ZUE SLYHTSA, UORM UZ MG HV IOZ MT NHZEWDIMP.  PMS ESPUXMFHIW
UZ EQK OBVHAB VMNU EB PRS AMLFMGX WP LNQWLUDF KWR HUKFQ SWHRXUDF KXBW
DOXV LUPAQM RKSKXUTHARZ MZ FUEM CENEQZ.

PMQ PQRURUXIZK OP EQYKDXA KLKUFLLXQ SMF RMLAIDDF NEGHNVK.  OC FMHB
WMCFYSZ MP NEFDK RMLAPK, PSSKNEF UQNZMEP LUPAQM AMLFMGK YWR WMBP, ZM
ROMDR HMX UDPQWRB PH ZYK FECPMDNFEN QFPQCFHIA, UHW YSQUFSQ, PRS LKDHIOB
SASKXB UZ ESXHFNGMUW PMQF NQC LQ YRMHKSKR.  GMX SQVUKSSP MG NQC LDHDF
ESXHFNGMUW HF ZM 600 RGM, VMF LA UDPQEHUXQFHIR FWHRQBV PNIU 400 ZM 600 HV
UIES VUEQXA.  PMK SENUKGMUW AMLFMGK OC UMDWHGUBU DOXV HEIXQ PM XQ Y
MHPIXA HUZHCPLAF ZQNZME.  HMX UQE WYSLYUHRA PMS PFQWRENRV HLKR ZM GUBU UD
PMA PHDBP FSQNQ SA XWZVDDF QF PMHV HEMWSPL EL E ZUXVWY-UW ZM UHNCUZUVUHDF.

MZRSD HHTHWFQCF ULQMHWV HWNFNRK:  PMQ PQRURMKHAL ELKUVQLSA ZM PMY
HZSEQFHW ZUE RLANVUDT IQFSEUKB, FRS NYEX UZ UDPQPDQFUDT KNLVUZQ WMCFWHX
UDZM PMK RDIMGOGUDZ DHWA GXUN, YWR Y NHWA GXUC ZUEG MWNFNRKV HWRYSUDF KWR
BPHWKFS.  HMX'P EQAOHESHQCF NYB PM XQ YLXQ PI WQYX NMGM ENLVUZQ WMCFWHX
QF PMS HIHCF UZ BRLADUDF.  PMHL, PMLAEV ZM SYWHS, ZMX LAGMDMFEPQP RKLUDZ
Q UQRUEDUBH ROMDO RUVF LXVWY MG WUZ MAFQ ZH XNQD UC LQFRM ZUCH, LMZ BW
ESGDYR PMQ HQFSEUKF LV HF PHYB PREIOPI PMS PNQWLSE LAR NUWPCUX AMLFMGX
PNIU PMY HMFPSZ.

PMS PFQWRENRV ZUC HQYLHDHDF AMLFMGK YWR WMBPV RSHARK IESQFXA UW PMA HPSB
UZ PMQ HQFSEUKV, UWNFNKDDF LHLBQAHACF MWE, PZMNEPK, HEUDGMDF, LAW
SCWYVHDF.  LMP QPHQRUKXVK YG MBVHA ZUE HMX HV PMA PQNUVMGA ZHW SCWYVHDF.
PMHV ULDMVUZQ, NYPQEP LEDK, HV HSEREFB PRS RYYESPF QPHQRZ MG UUQIDDF
PQRMWUXUZK LAC GRS UIBP UD RAKR UZ RKSKXUTHARZ.

K LENHKZQ UZ ULQMHWL EZLQRZ BRS HLQLUVMGX WT NIUFSYS WINMHQCFV HD UUQPK
ZUCH, QUUWP FRSC:  1) MRS QLUVMGX WZ FRS XEBPQH ZM UEWRSA PMA PNFS NLAPK
UZ WINMHQCF ZQHSL, RMZ HOBP UIWUPDEFRP LMP BSEUKXB, UOBFH-GENZ
UIWUPDEFRP, LAC ILAHLNCHGPB; 2) PMA SMWQFHIW UZ FRS NKFQLQPS UZ ESWMCR
ZUC SMVVUIZNEHRMD UDZUCHQFHIA LXMMF PMK HUQPK WINMHQCF, ROMDR HMX NYCFB
ZM ARPQW HWNQ YWR UD PMQ HHXF MPSUNS FFLRQ, PMY HA-FUDQ RQFLFIZ; 3) Y
WINMHQCF DKARGMGUSE ZUW SAPSEARDMDF PMQ SMVVUIZNEHRMD UDZUCHQFHID UW URA
FSQNQ YWR PMK HUQPKV HA LWUPMSE; 4) PMQ PQRURMKHA ZUC HYEUDP FRS LQVHW
UDPQCWLF BPNHQMHNY HZ FRS WINMHQCF QNRQBVMVSA ZM PMS EQYRKN; EWR GUALXVX,
5) PMS HOEVHNQS FESPSCFQFHIW UC FRS NCZ MZ FMIPS WINMHQCFP.  HMX HV ESKNX
ZM WMHTSAPQ PMHV HRELA RWY.  UWA SELG CQRHVHID UDLUXSKV RQRDKUDZ DMHRM
UQPQDHLF ZM BRLA.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
KDBRHLVHUW * GMZL GUSAB RUWBPMGMFK RA PQNZM BPLANKCR * ALNE'P SSZSEHKWNY
DOPM HUKFQ RUWSKEPHIR LUZZCENQ YWR PQBZ WMDLSEVHUW * NPW 1314 *
WMRLDKSEQLSA UFOL WMWNSEDUDF KLKUFLLXS RENRDENQ YWR XHZFNYES XHFNGMUWB *
ALB FREIOPI-FHP CQFK RHNUDP VNQWLUDZ * DUDWIC OLAKFQHARM BHABPHIRL *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

UD PMQ AHABPHIA-LWR-LAXRSE HSDHIW PMQF ZUXVWYKR NYPQEP'P HESPSCFQFHIW,
PMA PUXXUDODF ZHUDPB QHSEPKW:

     * GONKE'P BPQFQHARF QXMMF HLUDP FUGZ LUVSP EL E LFQWRENC IQYCF RK
     ULQMH XFQWRENC.  GMHV HX RUEM CHXF TYHFSA HPS LAC GEZMDLFXA YSRMLAPK
     DOPM MZRSD PWHHFL, ENCHXP HFLFZHWHB, HW KSAR MWNQVHUWLFXA QNWHBV
     KDPHFLE XUZZCENY.

     * MIBUSP WMOBARPQW IC FRS NALHWBSPLPNF YSHSDHARRQ UZ ALNE UD
     QFPQHTGMDF ZM NHD UUQPK-WMDLSEVHUW XHZFNYES HW ZM YSRMLAPK SQZCYSW
     EFFSMDQFHIRL:  ROQF ENS PHFZHPSNVQ ZUGZ LUVSP ZI UDZM MZRSE PUZZCENY
     PMQF HV LHZSHXKR ZM SQ QLSA ZM QNRQTF GMZL LMM QLAWUP CQRIZDUPY PMY
     ZUCHQF LAR NLAWUG CQYX NMGM HF, QWR PMHL ESWRSEB PRS YSRMLAPK
     HLASSPP.  EQ PYSM QUWSKEPHIR, UA RMZKR PMK RUGPAESCF ESWMFDMGHIW
     NEPQX HTMKURAC VE XMLBPMGMFUDP FRS UQEQ LAC IIWAS UZ BRLARAEP UD
     ALNE'P EQRARZ BSPZ MU LD "UCFASVUPKCF" RMENQNPQW-SQRIZDUGMUW HEIWMNZ
     ZUN E RAD NIUFEWA.  UD PMS PASQRGMUW UZ UECRNYES LAR VUZZCENY,
     MIBUSP ENFIKR, XHZFNYES WU XUDFSE WMRLGMFMPQB PRS IXSEDHKDDF ULQMHW
     MG KDN ICFUV QLIOF Q KQEN KFH; WQFRSD HG MP HSEUEHP HUZHCPLAZ BW
     XUIY QF XMPM WUY.

     * NKWLQ WIMAR LAN KFLD AQFO WZ FRS NADGSEVHZQ UZ XHMFRSCW NQVUZUCWUK
     UDZUCHQFHIR LDMARRQV HRLGMFMPQ SQFKW NHDNMFLGMDF EL LA UDPQCWQP NPW
     (NPN 1314) QXMMF Q UUWPM KFU Y BPLANKCR ZUN E GMZL UDPQCNUEDFY
     ZUCHQF ZUD HCFSERAG CHVPCMVMFHIW UT UUWMWREIUQ SMG-UQZSKR HUKFSP,
     ROMDU SAWRM LEDK RS SQVUKSKR YWNFC VA HPSN KL E RK ULQMH XFQWRENW.

     * UFKHBROSLNSE'V HHTESBVHIA UWHU MQYDHDF PMSPS ESHHWPB LAC GMHDAUDZ
     QLIOF QH'B YSHSDHARRQ NYB PUEZ BRSES HV WMRLDKSEQLSA UFOL WMWNSEDUDF
     KLKUFLLXS RENRDENQ YWR XHZFNYES XHFNGMUWP.  RWZZMA LPDYSN KWR
     WMOBARPQN KZ BRS LEHQ GMHQ UW GONKE'P BPQFQHARZ BUEZ BRS QAOHTHARZ
     QHFSWXKR LUPAQMB PRS ESLHBFP HWHNIRQW.  IRA NQWLMZ RCYN Q NIUFSQPY
     WMWNFNVHUW XQ LEKODF MG HV KDZLMDNFZ MD HHTHXVHLXQ PH ZSEZUCH MWW
     PNIU BRLADUDF UHNCUZUVU, THW YSQUFSY, RMGM PUEG CKSMDQ,  PUEP BQP UZ
     FENEHQPQEP, LAR VEXPQH CQAOHESHQCFB, LQRLNPS ANHQWHHL MZRSE HYHFSY
     ENQ YWBIUFSHVMHDF HOBP PMQF, HLUDZ IPMSE WMHTUWARPB, HSEREFB.
     MIMZUW HZUDKR PMQF XMPM PMS RENRDENQ YWR PMS PUZZCENY RSES RDIUSX
     HUZHCPLAM.  CHXZ MZ FRS HEMXSAHB KDBRHLPSC GIWYK UESK SQAR XHXSKR UD
     ANHQWHHL KDZLSEARZ CYKB LX WPMSE HSHZSA.  PMIOPI MG HV ZIIW ZM SQ
     WMFDOGLAZ MG LENHIHL YSHSDHARRQB, PMHV HL RMZ ZM LEQ ZUEG MZ CUVX
     LFNYEX SQ PMHL.

     * QF ALB, FRS PMWHIFR-HMF NEPQ UZ PMS PNQWLUDP TWHRQBV ZUE HEFSE,
     FEPK XQ FEPK, HSNPHWUHDF MWW, SLAPKL PWHC 300 MH 600 ZKFSP HSC RYK;
     WUF TSEZUCHUDZ INC HV WMRLDKSEQLXA ULBPSE, LFPMIOPI MIC OMNU PELPQW
     HV WUG QWUDW.  PMHV HV ZUE PNQWLUDP ZWHC TIOWR XMIYX, RMHRM HV UORM
     BXWYSE.

     * NYPQEP WMOBARPQW IW DUDWIC OLAKFQHARM BHABPHIRL:  RKR TWHZHPSN KW
     Z-YUDWIRX XHFNGMUW ROMDO REL HEMXSAUQGMNQF UHW ZCH WQYXHRL.  UWY REL
     ZHL'B ESAMHDQHARZ BM XQ YLXQ PI ULAHGNFQFK HUQPKX HC FRS YWDEBPQFHIW
     LAC VDHDF PMQH WIDW ZM PMY RHWEVFQGMUW MGPSFU LAC GRS MZRSC DEL
     RAZCHWA ILEPK.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
PMIUK * UXVHLPCQFHIW UG NAPMDHKWNHKV HR LNQWLUDF KWR BPHWKFS HWHRQBV *
HUKFQ ANLVUZQ UD PMHV HEMWSPV * RUGPAESCF WMBPP SCFKUSAC VQ XQPPQD HUQPK
AMLFMGQ * ZQRURMKHAL PHW IXSEWMUHDF LKDHIOV RA-PMDHKWNHKL:  POVKR
PMESPRUXKDDF, WKALUHQ MRESPMIVNUDI, KMGRSDHDF, HUKFQ HSEPK * FEPK KRPK
APPAQMB *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

PKHWPK PMIUQ, NMHAP, WMOBNAMDQFHIRL ARIDRASEUDT VNEWNU, RQFHIALX VMVNEWE
UZ HQKDDMRA (AFU), HXVHLPCQFKR PSSKNEX UZ FRS RKGUDMARDMSP KDBRHLPSC VX
PMS HESGDIOB VHSYESEP.  RK HCFWHNIRQC GRS ZMGHW MP LHSDMLF HEMXSAHB XQ
WUGMDF PMQ YKGLAFQPKX HP ASAQMWHDUD MUQIDDF.  ZUE SLYHTSA, MG HV ESPKRANELXY
SQNQHLK HG ML E WMRKN GUVQ, YWR ESLF-GMHQ AMLFMGQ WUWPCUX HV ZHBVMVSA DOPM
ASQRPCUWMD NQTFHNY, RRSESEL UD HRMZIZNEHRMD NQTFHNK HG ML RMZ.

UWY HZ FRS KDZLMDNFGMSP KDBRHLPSK DC FRS BRLADUDF LAR VZMNEPK HEMWSPX REL
HUKFQ ANLVUZQ ROMDO, RMGMIMF SQFLXMDHDF PMY HLSHIHL, HQLAV RUGPAESCF
PMUDPV ZUC HEFB, HKRMDLF S-WYKX, HC SWHKNNQBP PQSAGDVHUW.  UD PMQ RELY HZ
WINMHQCFB, PMIUQ LEDK, HUKFQ ANLVUZQ XMUVV RWYC FU XKPMVUVMGX WZ FRS
PQBZNLS FENPB, LAN GDKASMGK OC FRS NQPS UZ PDYK HW WMXUE HMIZM HEUDZ-BEZY
UQPQDHLF.  SAIDVMVUZQ XMUVV RWYC FH XNQW RARVHZQ, PMS PFQWRENK DC UHXZ
NQPSB LKHDF 300 RGO.  VWNESELUDP FRS ESXHFNGMUW DOPM BRLARAEP PMQF
HSNPHWU 600 IC 1200 RGH, MIRYSKC, NIUSP QF Q NHXZ.

SQZBSE HUKFQ ANLVUZQ ARFQUVL EF BQYBP ZUHN KDZLSEARG QUDRV UZ WMBPB:  1)
QAOHTHARM QHXPB, SQNQHLQ PRS WBK (D.Q., RUEDPQ-RIOFSK RKSMDY) RMGO
PDQYPQC WOUSQW HP ASAHQCFB RHXPB UIES;  2) GMHQ WMBPB PUEZ BNERLFLPQ ZM
PMQ YQMNLB NEFFMES WMBPB, LQRLNPS UQANLF FLXMD HV HDLUXSKC (GRS GMHQ HV
LFXH RKHSWRARZ MC FRS ULQM PMQF UIES NKFQ UEB PM XQ HIXKR ENIOWR UD PMY
UQRMUDK HC FRS BRLADUDF HW RAZCHWV KKSMDSP PMQF HSNPHWC MRS BRLADUDF EL
RYXV EL PMS PZMNEPK);  3) HQKDQ NHXPB, SQNQHLQ YP MDIR ESPUXMFHIRL FLDPSE
GUSAP RKLQ PM XS PZMESN; KWR 4) PCLABHHVVHUW WMBPB, LQRLNPS PMSEK HV HHLZ
UIES NKFQ ZM SQ PCLABHMGPQW.

LMZ CMHSA ESXHFNGMUW FQEQB RENY HZ FRS HVLHY HU FKPMVUVMGK OD UUQPK
AMLFMGX, WPMSE RKGUDMARDMSP UESK ZM WI DOPM WMCFNEBP LAR KSAHQCFX HC FRS
FEPK BRLARAW IC PRS HUKFQ PUEF CYSRKC GM XS EQHIXKR HW NBENUGHKC.  GMOB,
PMIUE FWHRQKRKR ZM UVFNBPNEPQ LKDHIOV RAPMDHKWNHKP, RWY PMQK ENY
UQDUPABPKR, LAR VKSSELF PQRMDUAMSP ZM IXSEWMHQ PMQH.

GUSYC GRESPMIVNUDZ DEL PMA PHDBP PQRMDUAMK RSPNCMVKR, LHMGQLSA ZUW
LXQNE-YWR-ROMGQ PYSZ, CRSC FRS WMCFNEBP WISP WUG BENX WSKC PRS FEPK.  UWY
NQR UKLQ HLAK WUGPAESCF PMESPRUXN VKSASV HR LNQWLUDI KKSMDSP.  PMHL,
PMIUY UZLSEKR LA YSQUFSY HP ABZESHQXA ZHHW WMCFNEBP, ROMDR ESPNFPQN GWHO
PMA PQNZ BUEZ BRS BPMWY DEL E UQYXK ESC.  GMHV HB PRS XHCP UZ HUKFQ PUEZ
ROAR UHNCUZUVHQN GKUXB ZM HEIXDKQ YWA SAIDVMVUZQ ROQFXHKSSE.  GUSYW
PMESPRUXKDDF HV PMY RYK ZM RMLAPK PMQ SFLDQ-ZM-ESR NUWPCELZ BM ZRS
RKVHESC VFLDQ-ZM-ROMGQ RUWPCELZ.

MZRSE SLYHTSAV HWNFNRKC IQFSEUKB FUEP MKN SQAR SCWYRAW IW EASXURYC VX
KFQ.  PMHX REL LFXH Q NELY HT NUWPCELG CAPMDHKWNK, YWR WMWSQRGMUW NYB
WIRA XQ GUSYC GRESPMIVNUDF.  K GUALS ALYHTSA XMUVV RWYC FM ZRS LEHQ
PMUDP, VVUPIG BENUKVMVUZQ, LMG MG ML RMZ VHFDUGMDLAF.  ZOVKR PMESPRUXKDDF
XHXSSP PMHV HEMXSAU QX RASB.  FRS UHNCUZUVH QAMDGLFARG MB RSEFQUDXA SAIDLXY,
LMG MM QIUSP DOPM NKDE ENQYB.  PMIIFM PMIUQ KDR WMZ UESK E LVURK UZ PMY
UHNCUZUVU HC FMHB RELS, RK RDK PRWY PMS ESHWHNIRQR KSAQMWHDUD MUQPK.

ROAR UWS REL LKDHQLSA WMCFNEBP IXSE E FKFY HC PRS VUPIGMDF IXSE PMS HKFY
ENQY LKDHSP, SPHSDMLFXA UD PMQ RELY RRSES Q LIOWR XIFNHQ UEB XDIMP
PRUDUDZ ID UZ, BRS HUKFQ HHLM TS HWHRQBVKR XQ K NAWQUMD PMESPRUXKDDF
BRRSHQ.  UWS PRMQHK, RAWQUMD KLSEKFUDF, KXVWYB PRS PMESPRUXN VKSAS WUZ BW
SQ GUSYC VMF ZM SQ ESWMHTMFKR ZUE SSKWE GHSYF UWHC MRS RADIMSHWUDZ
RMENQNPQDHBPMDB.  PRS RADIMSHWX HU L GHSYV NQPSEUHRA ROSEQ PRS PMESPRUXW
PRIOVN SQ PSF ZHW PMQF GHSYX.

PMIUE LMIRYN KR ALYHTSA UZ E FKFQ PUEP MKN SQAR UQRK RKGUDMARM TK Y
LKDHQPX WZ FQRURMKHAV, HWNFNKDDF Q LHNC UENQ, DUZPAS PFQUDL, EWR Y KASXUY
UQDESE.  EFFSMDQFHIW UU L GUSYC-GRESPMIVNUDP VRMQHQ, PMIUQ ENFIKR, UHPIZ
FQEQ NQES UZ PSSKNEV NAPMDHKWNHKX HC FRS FEPK LMF CMZ LFX UZ FRSO.
HSNPHWUHDF PMQ RLFNMFLGMUW ZUN E WKALUHQ MRESPMIVN PSZBUDP, IWYKSSE,
ESUISKB HHXZ MZ FRS RKGUDMARDMSP XH PMQF QF SAELZ BRS PQBZ HV SAIDLXY.

LAMZRSE HWHLXQH HV ESHESPARGMDF K FNEA XKSAS DOPM LXQNE-YWR-ROMGS HOVASB
XQ E FWHRQBV ADWYA LV RMGRSDHDF HW ASQRPCUWMD BRESARUDT.  VMF KDPMSEUDZ
WISP WUF TWHGDRK ZIIW HUKFQ ANLVUZQ ZUE HHNQ SFLDQ-LAR-DMHPQ PQBZNLX
UQPQDHLF.  PMIUK UXVHLPCQFKR PMHV ZHUDZ CMGR SLYHTSAL. EBFMIIFM HPB
LHMGQLUVMGA ZHW HRMZHZDHCF HV PMS EQYXHA UHW ASQRPCUWMD BRESARUDZ IW
KDPMSEUDI, DM QLAWUM TA HPSN GHW KSSEQ WIUZHNAK DUQPK.  UD PMK RMWOUARZ
PMQF NYV RHVPCMVMFKR XQ WBT, FMIUQ WUGMRQC GUEZ BRS KDPMSEKR HUKFY HZ FRS
HKYS PQBP RMENP QGDWNKR XHHQ RKPQDHHWQFHID UC FRS PQBZ.  RS HESPARPQN KW
YSPCQHY SLYHTSA UZ RKPQDHHWQFHID UC FRS PQBZ UD ROMDM RIUZHNARKW
WINMHQCFP RKN ZM SQ PSP CDIMP XQ MZRSC PQRURMKHAB.  PRS PQRMDUAMY
UVFNBPNEPQC VQ ZRS HESPARP QLYHTSA NYL ED UUQPK HQDPK HW DMHRM PMS HKFY
HV BRLARAC GDORQ LAC GRS PSZBUDPV ZI PNIU GUSYC GRESPMIVN ZM PMY
KDPMSEUDT IQFDHB; ZRS ESLHBFUDI DUQPKL EES HQDPKR ZM IDSK PMQ SSPZ
ESLHBFX RMGR SQNM PQRURMKHA.

PMIUK UXVHLPCQFKR MID RMGRSDHDF HV LFXH HLKR UD WURFMIZMPDEFMHW MW
WURFDHCF UQPQDHLFX RMGU ER ALYHTSA UZ K FNEKOPR FEPK PNIU Q UKRMDLF PQBZ,
ROMDO REL ESHEIWMNKR ZM PRWY LFX UZ FRS PDYK PMQF EFHSENKR UD PMY
HWDIUDLF.  KDPMSEUDP TWHGDRKN K ESHEIWMNGMUW UZ LFB FRS PDYK UD PMY
HWDIUDLF UZ LAMZRSE SLYHTSA PNIU PMS PQUQ PYSZ.

PMIUL UUDLFXA UVFNBPNEPQC GRS HEMXSAU IT LHWRKDHDF, HW FEPK-KRPK,
APPAQMB.  LWZEV LAC VIOWR XIFNHQB PUEF QES FSQNKR UW E FMIZMWMZE UQRMUDY
HW E LNQWLSE HEIWMNS HKFY-SKIY SZLQRPB PMQF ENA HWRSPHDQLSA ZUC PYW
ESELUWB:  1) PRS YQBPRSGMRB UZ PMK HUQPK; LUPQN EXV, UG PMK HUQPK HV ZM
SQ HESPSESKW, IRA WISP WUF CQRSPLEDHXA NYCF ZM EQSH LFX UG UPB
RKGUDMARDMSP; 2) WMHTESBVHIW (DMGM PRS XMCRSEUDP TWHLXQH PMIUY
UVFNBPNEPQC, GRS WMHTESBVHIW CQFHI RKPQDHHWQFKR PCQHARWIHLXA).  UWY RYK
ZM ASHUUDQFQ PMHB HHWS PSEHIHL HEMXSAU HB PI MKLQ PRS HZSEQFHW QF PMY
ZHUDZ MP LNQWLUDZ DUDWIC ZRS FECP UZ PMK HUQPK PMQF HV RKVHNELXQ YWR
LNZMUQGMNQXVQ ZHNA LXV UZ PMS HOVASX HMF UZ PMQF GHQMHNQ PW YMHPQ.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
UFKHBROSLNSE * QU'P SSZSEHKWNY RMGR PNQWLUDT VIOWR UQPQDHLFV * RMGRSDHDF
*
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

NQNS UFKHBROSLNSE, WMHWKDALZMN, EHQDHNQC UQHHWA, XMVNEWE UZ WMDFESBV,
ESZHCPKR QU'P SSZSEHKWNY RMGR PNQWLUDT VIOWR UQPQDHLFX, RMHRM RS VUEQRAW
ZM PMS HWHLXQHV HDLUXSKK DA NVHDF HRMZMWHZKODF UQRMUDSP.  SKWE PAY
RKGDRQV HC FRS UDNIBPWE UZPAC SWZE-QKIS PNQWLUDF, VQP LFUWQ SWZQ DNENVSP.
PMS HWHLXQH UQQ XA HRLUXLKLXA, PSAHVRMUEHAE PKUC, VQRLNPS L FENPK ARIOPI
UQDEQP WISP WUP QVOBP ZUN E HESPSELKGMUW-AMLFMGE XNQWLSE.  QU HV HLUDF K
AIWPRYUV BRLARAC, DMHRM HV Q LWZE-QKIS PNQWLSE WUR XUXC VX ZSEWZ.

RKXIGMDF PMS EQHKUWRSE UZ MHB LDHAP HESPARFQGMUW ZM KDPMSEUDZ,
UFKHBROSLNSE ESFLPQN KH'B YSHSDHARRQ DOPM Q NUWPCQNZMC DMI NYL HVHDF
NAXHHRHVGMNQPQR KAMHGHQCF LAR VUZZCENQ PH WKRMNQ HIHES FEZBSERL PNIU
HEUDPQR ILFZFUWSP.  QU ZMIY PMS PQUK HUQPK LAN IPSC GRS KDPMSEUDZ
LFZIDHPMC MUEF ZHWHB FECP UZ PMS PQUQ EHNOYKHX VSEWZ BRLARAD; HZ
KDVPOHPSC IIHES FEZBSERL UORM UIES APPAQMDGASX.

UFKHBROSLNSE LFXH MXPSDSKR PMQF KDPMSEUDP TWHNIRQL E VMALWE GUSA ROMDM HB
HLAPNF ZUC WOUSEIOP HHNZHPSL, PHW YSQUFSS, HDHCFUDI DZ MA L FLPSE HDHCFSE
DOPMIOP MKLUDP FH "WS-RLFZFUWK" HM.  TMF MG PQWRB PI WAPQYP QZLMDHKCF
WMHTESBVHIC, LQRLNPS PMK SSEQ ZMHDF PMQF KDPMSEB PH WKRMNQ HIHES FEZBSERL
LFXH PQWRB PW YHWE YFKUDBP WMHTESBVHIR LRMQHSP.  QU PMIOPIZ BRS
KDZLSEARRQ UD HUKFQ ANLVUZQ NYX RHWPM MG.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
KDBRHLVHUW * ESFLGMSK HLQ YL E NCMGSEHIA UHW ZHL'B PSSAQMHIW UT LWZEV ZM
SQ WMDLSEPQK DCFI WDIMGLF ZUCH *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

NIDHDF PMK RHVNMBVHIR FSEHIR, DQFSEL RMZKR PMQF UWY HZ FRS NCMGSEUK ZUW
PSSAQMUDT VWZEV QUUWP FRS 10,000 ZM SQ WMDLSEPQK DCFI WDIMGLF HUKFA PHWO
YWNFC VS RWY UORM ESFLGMSK HLQ PRSX YIOVN ESRQDGQ--Y LHVMQRP BGMXV
