
9:00 AM   Session IV.  Image Capture, Text Capture, Overview of Text and
          Image Storage Formats.

          Moderator:  William L. Hooton, Vice President of Operations,
             I-NET

          A) Principal Methods for Image Capture of Text:
             Direct scanning
             Use of microform

          Anne R. Kenney, Assistant Director, Department of Preservation
             and Conservation, Cornell University
          Pamela Q.J. Andre, Associate Director, Automation, and
          Judith A. Zidar, Coordinator, National Agricultural Text
             Digitizing Program (NATDP), National Agricultural Library
             (NAL)
          Donald J. Waters, Head, Systems Office, Yale University Library

          B) Special Problems:
             Bound volumes
             Conservation
             Reproducing printed halftones

          Carl Fleischhauer, Coordinator, American Memory, Library of
             Congress
          George Thoma, Chief, Communications Engineering Branch,
             National Library of Medicine (NLM)

10:30-
11:00 AM  Break

11:00 AM  Session IV.  Image Capture, Text Capture, Overview of Text and
          Image Storage Formats (Cont'd.).

          C) Image Standards and Implications for Preservation

          Jean Baronas, Senior Manager, Department of Standards and
             Technology, Association for Information and Image Management
             (AIIM)
          Patricia Battin, President, The Commission on Preservation and
             Access (CPA)

          D) Text Conversion:
             OCR vs. rekeying
             Standards of accuracy and use of imperfect texts
             Service bureaus

          Stuart Weibel, Senior Research Specialist, Online Computer
             Library Center, Inc. (OCLC)
          Michael Lesk, Executive Director, Computer Science Research,
             Bellcore
          Ricky Erway, Associate Coordinator, American Memory, Library of
             Congress
          Pamela Q.J. Andre, Associate Director, Automation, and
          Judith A. Zidar, Coordinator, National Agricultural Text
             Digitizing Program (NATDP), National Agricultural Library
             (NAL)

12:30-
1:30 PM   Lunch

1:30 PM   Session V.  Approaches to Preparing Electronic Texts.

          Discussion of approaches to structuring text for the computer;
          pros and cons of text coding, description of methods in
          practice, and comparison of text-coding methods.

          Moderator:  Susan Hockey, Director, Center for Electronic Texts
             in the Humanities (CETH), Rutgers and Princeton Universities
          David Woodley Packard
          C.M. Sperberg-McQueen, Editor, Text Encoding Initiative (TEI),
             University of Illinois-Chicago
          Eric M. Calaluca, Vice President, Chadwyck-Healey, Inc.

3:30-
4:00 PM   Break

4:00 PM   Session VI.  Copyright Issues.

          Marybeth Peters, Policy Planning Adviser to the Register of
             Copyrights, Library of Congress

5:00 PM   Session VII. Conclusion.

          General discussion.
          What topics were omitted or given short shrift that anyone
             would like to talk about now?
          Is there a "group" here?  What should the group do next, if
             anything?  What should the Library of Congress do next, if
             anything?
          Moderator:  Prosser Gifford, Director for Scholarly Programs,
             Library of Congress

6:00 PM   Adjourn


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                         Appendix II:  ABSTRACTS


SESSION I

Avra MICHELSON           Forecasting the Use of Electronic Texts by
                         Social Sciences and Humanities Scholars

This presentation explores the ways in which electronic texts are likely
to be used by the non-scientific scholarly community.  Many of the
remarks are drawn from a report the speaker coauthored with Jeff
Rothenberg, a computer scientist at The RAND Corporation.

The speaker assesses 1) current scholarly use of information technology
and 2) the key trends in information technology most relevant to the
research process, in order to predict how social sciences and humanities
scholars are apt to use electronic texts.  In introducing the topic,
current use of electronic texts is explored broadly within the context of
scholarly communication.  From the perspective of scholarly
communication, the work of humanities and social sciences scholars
involves five processes:  1) identification of sources, 2) communication
with colleagues, 3) interpretation and analysis of data, 4) dissemination
of research findings, and 5) curriculum development and instruction.  The
extent to which computation currently permeates aspects of scholarly
communication represents a viable indicator of the prospects for
electronic texts.

The discussion of current practice is balanced by an analysis of key
trends in the scholarly use of information technology.  These include the
trends toward end-user computing and connectivity, which provide a
framework for forecasting the use of electronic texts through this
millennium.  The presentation concludes with a summary of the ways in
which the nonscientific scholarly community can be expected to use
electronic texts, and the implications of that use for information
providers.

Susan VECCIA and Joanne FREEMAN    Electronic Archives for the Public:
                                   Use of American Memory in Public and
                                   School Libraries

This joint discussion focuses on nonscholarly applications of electronic
library materials, specifically addressing use of the Library of Congress
American Memory (AM) program in a small number of public and school
libraries throughout the United States.  AM consists of selected Library
of Congress primary archival materials, stored on optical media
(CD-ROM/videodisc), and presented with little or no editing.  Many
collections are accompanied by electronic introductions and user's guides
offering background information and historical context.  Collections
represent a variety of formats including photographs, graphic arts,
motion pictures, recorded sound, music, broadsides and manuscripts,
books, and pamphlets.

In 1991, the Library of Congress began a nationwide evaluation of AM in
different types of institutions.  Test sites include public libraries,
elementary and secondary school libraries, college and university
libraries, state libraries, and special libraries.  Susan VECCIA and
Joanne FREEMAN will discuss their observations on the use of AM by the
nonscholarly community, using evidence gleaned from this ongoing
evaluation effort.

VECCIA will comment on the overall goals of the evaluation project, and
the types of public and school libraries included in this study.  Her
comments on nonscholarly use of AM will focus on the public library as a
cultural and community institution, often bridging the gap between formal
and informal education.  FREEMAN will discuss the use of AM in school
libraries.  Use by students and teachers has revealed some broad
questions about the use of electronic resources, as well as definite
benefits gained by the "nonscholar."  Topics will include the problem of
grasping content and context in an electronic environment, the stumbling
blocks created by "new" technologies, and the unique skills and interests
awakened through use of electronic resources.

SESSION II

Elli MYLONAS             The Perseus Project:  Interactive Sources and
                         Studies in Classical Greece

The Perseus Project (5) has just released Perseus 1.0, the first publicly
available version of its hypertextual database of multimedia materials on
classical Greece.  Perseus is designed to be used by a wide audience,
comprised of readers at the student and scholar levels.  As such, it must
be able to locate information using different strategies, and it must
contain enough detail to serve the different needs of its users.  In
addition, it must be delivered so that it is affordable to its target
audience.  [These problems and the solutions we chose are described in
Mylonas, "An Interface to Classical Greek Civilization," JASIS 43:2,
March 1992.]

In order to achieve its objective, the project staff decided to make a
conscious separation between selecting and converting textual, database,
and image data on the one hand, and putting it into a delivery system on
the other.  That way, it is possible to create the electronic data
without thinking about the restrictions of the delivery system.  We have
made a great effort to choose system-independent formats for our data,
and to put as much thought and work as possible into structuring it so
that the translation from paper to electronic form will enhance the value
of the data. [A discussion of these solutions as of two years ago is in
Elli Mylonas, Gregory Crane, Kenneth Morrell, and D. Neel Smith, "The
Perseus Project:  Data in the Electronic Age," in Accessing Antiquity:
The Computerization of Classical Databases, J. Solomon and T. Worthen
(eds.),  University of Arizona Press, in press.]

Much of the work on Perseus is focused on collecting and converting the
data on which the project is based.  At the same time, it is necessary to
provide means of access to the information, in order to make it usable,
and them to investigate how it is used.  As we learn more about what
students and scholars from different backgrounds do with Perseus, we can
adjust our data collection, and also modify the system to accommodate
them.  In creating a delivery system for general use, we have tried to
avoid favoring any one type of use by allowing multiple forms of access
to and navigation through the system.

The way text is handled exemplifies some of these principles.  All text
in Perseus is tagged using SGML, following the guidelines of the Text
Encoding Initiative (TEI).  This markup is used to index the text, and
process it so that it can be imported into HyperCard.  No SGML markup
remains in the text that reaches the user, because currently it would be
too expensive to create a system that acts on SGML in real time.
However, the regularity provided by SGML is essential for verifying the
content of the texts, and greatly speeds all the processing performed on
them.  The fact that the texts exist in SGML ensures that they will be
relatively easy to port to different hardware and software, and so will
outlast the current delivery platform.  Finally, the SGML markup
incorporates existing canonical reference systems (chapter, verse, line,
etc.); indexing and navigation are based on these features.  This ensures
that the same canonical reference will always resolve to the same point
within a text, and that all versions of our texts, regardless of delivery
platform (even paper printouts) will function the same way.

In order to provide tools for users, the text is processed by a
morphological analyzer, and the results are stored in a database.
Together with the index, the Greek-English Lexicon, and the index of all
the English words in the definitions of the lexicon, the morphological
analyses comprise a set of linguistic tools that allow users of all
levels to work with the textual information, and to accomplish different
tasks.  For example, students who read no Greek may explore a concept as
it appears in Greek texts by using the English-Greek index, and then
looking up works in the texts and translations, or scholars may do
detailed morphological studies of word use by using the morphological
analyses of the texts.  Because these tools were not designed for any one
use, the same tools and the same data can be used by both students and
scholars.

NOTES:
     (5)  Perseus is based at Harvard University, with collaborators at
     several other universities.  The project has been funded primarily
     by the Annenberg/CPB Project, as well as by Harvard University,
     Apple Computer, and others.  It is published by Yale University
     Press.  Perseus runs on Macintosh computers, under the HyperCard
     program.

Eric CALALUCA

Chadwyck-Healey embarked last year on two distinct yet related full-text
humanities database projects.

The English Poetry Full-Text Database and the Patrologia Latina Database
represent new approaches to linguistic research resources.  The size and
complexity of the projects present problems for electronic publishers,
but surmountable ones if they remain abreast of the latest possibilities
in data capture and retrieval software techniques.

The issues which required address prior to the commencement of the
projects were legion:

     1.   Editorial selection (or exclusion) of materials in each
          database

     2.   Deciding whether or not to incorporate a normative encoding
          structure into the databases?
               A.  If one is selected, should it be SGML?
               B.  If SGML, then the TEI?

     3.   Deliver as CD-ROM, magnetic tape, or both?

     4.   Can one produce retrieval software advanced enough for the
          postdoctoral linguist, yet accessible enough for unattended
          general use?  Should one try?

     5.   Re fair and liberal networking policies, what are the risks to
          an electronic publisher?

     6.   How does the emergence of national and international education
          networks affect the use and viability of research projects
          requiring high investment?  Do the new European Community
          directives concerning database protection necessitate two
          distinct publishing projects, one for North America and one for
          overseas?

From new notions of "scholarly fair use" to the future of optical media,
virtually every issue related to electronic publishing was aired.  The
result is two projects which have been constructed to provide the quality
research resources with the fewest encumbrances to use by teachers and
private scholars.

Dorothy TWOHIG

In spring 1988 the editors of the papers of George Washington, John
Adams, Thomas Jefferson, James Madison, and Benjamin Franklin were
approached by classics scholar David Packard on behalf of the Packard
Humanities Foundation with a proposal to produce a CD-ROM edition of the
complete papers of each of the Founding Fathers.  This electronic edition
will supplement the published volumes, making the documents widely
available to students and researchers at reasonable cost.  We estimate
that our CD-ROM edition of Washington's Papers will be substantially
completed within the next two years and ready for publication.  Within
the next ten years or so, similar CD-ROM editions of the Franklin, Adams,
Jefferson, and Madison papers also will be available.  At the Library of
Congress's session on technology, I would like to discuss not only the
experience of the Washington Papers in producing the CD-ROM edition, but
the impact technology has had on these major editorial projects.
Already, we are editing our volumes with an eye to the material that will
be readily available in the CD-ROM edition.  The completed electronic
edition will provide immense possibilities for the searching of documents
for information in a way never possible before.  The kind of technical
innovations that are currently available and on the drawing board will
soon revolutionize historical research and the production of historical
documents.  Unfortunately, much of this new technology is not being used
in the planning stages of historical projects, simply because many
historians are aware only in the vaguest way of its existence.  At least
two major new historical editing projects are considering microfilm
editions, simply because they are not aware of the possibilities of
electronic alternatives and the advantages of the new technology in terms
of flexibility and research potential compared to microfilm.  In fact,
too many of us in history and literature are still at the stage of
struggling with our PCs.  There are many historical editorial projects in
progress presently, and an equal number of literary projects.  While the
two fields have somewhat different approaches to textual editing, there
are ways in which electronic technology can be of service to both.

Since few of the editors involved in the Founding Fathers CD-ROM editions
are technical experts in any sense, I hope to point out in my discussion
of our experience how many of these electronic innovations can be used
successfully by scholars who are novices in the world of new technology.
One of the major concerns of the sponsors of the multitude of new
scholarly editions is the limited audience reached by the published
volumes.  Most of these editions are being published in small quantities
and the publishers' price for them puts them out of the reach not only of
individual scholars but of most public libraries and all but the largest
educational institutions.  However, little attention is being given to
ways in which technology can bypass conventional publication to make
historical and literary documents more widely available.

What attracted us most to the CD-ROM edition of The Papers of George
Washington was the fact that David Packard's aim was to make a complete
edition of all of the 135,000 documents we have collected available in an
inexpensive format that would be placed in public libraries, small
colleges, and even high schools.  This would provide an audience far
beyond our present 1,000-copy, $45 published edition.  Since the CD-ROM
edition will carry none of the explanatory annotation that appears in the
published volumes, we also feel that the use of the CD-ROM will lead many
researchers to seek out the published volumes.

In addition to ignorance of new technical advances, I have found that too
many editors--and historians and literary scholars--are resistant and
even hostile to suggestions that electronic technology may enhance their
work.  I intend to discuss some of the arguments traditionalists are
advancing to resist technology, ranging from distrust of the speed with
which it changes (we are already wondering what is out there that is
better than CD-ROM) to suspicion of the technical language used to
describe electronic developments.

Maria LEBRON

The Online Journal of Current Clinical Trials, a joint venture of the
American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) and the Online
Computer Library Center, Inc. (OCLC), is the first peer-reviewed journal
to provide full text, tabular material, and line illustrations on line.
This presentation will discuss the genesis and start-up period of the
journal.  Topics of discussion will include historical overview,
day-to-day management of the editorial peer review, and manuscript
tagging and publication.  A demonstration of the journal and its features
will accompany the presentation.

Lynne PERSONIUS

Cornell University Library, Cornell Information Technologies, and Xerox
Corporation, with the support of the Commission on Preservation and
Access, and Sun Microsystems, Inc., have been collaborating in a project
to test a prototype system for recording brittle books as digital images
and producing, on demand, high-qualMGK YCNMHLKS FEFSE ESFSQNQHARPB.  PMY
HEIHQRF PHYB LQKUWC GUEP, MWYKSSE, ZM UDSKBPDIQFS PIUY HZ FRS HVLHSP
LHWSIOWRUDP VNQWLUDP, VZMDHDF, ESPCHKGDDF, LAR GWHGDKDDF QNRQBV ZM
KDIDFQV UUQPKV HA L RAZCHWE QDLHDUWHQCF.

PMK HIHCF BPINK OW RDIMGLF HESPSELKGMUW SQFKD UD ULANLWE 1990.  SYWHV
HEIXDKKR PMQ RUXSAPK VUSCENK YWBSPL EWR BPHWKFS PEXPQC (QFLBV) XHZFNYES,
E FWHZMZQHS 600-WIPB-HSD-HWNI (RGH) BRLARAN, EWR PMS RENRDENA RQRSPLEWE
ZM LHZSHWF CQPYWDE HEUDGMDF UW PMK RMWMFQRR HDHCFSE MIHLKR UD WMCWASX'B
WMHTMFUDF KWR WMOBNAMDQFHIRL RQCFSE (WBW).

PMQ RHWRAXV BPLUU NVHDF PMS RENRDENQ YWR XHZFNYES SQNQHQ LA UDPQPDLF FECP
UZ PMK RKSASHZHQCF LAC GSPGMDF HEMWSPL PHW ARUEWNQHARPB ZM PMQ RFLBV
XHZFNYES XEBPQH.  PMQ RUXFLXMNEGMSK ALFMES UZ PMHV ESFLGMUWPRHG HV
ESLHBFUDI DA L XEBPQH PMQF HV PHQRUGMDLFXA FQUVHWKR ZM PMS HESPSDSQFHIW
EFFSMDQFHIW.

K NDIMGLF VUSCENX WG 1,000 LUXOUSP (HW EFHEWZHUQFASK 300,000 OUQPKP) REL
SQAR NCQYPQN KWR HV BPHWKR UW LA HZGMNQV UIAQSWZ PMQF ESVHRKV HW NWB.
PMA SMVNEWE UDNBINSP Q NUXSAQMHIW UP LASQRM CQFRSUQGMRB UIWUPDEFRP PMQF
HEIXDKSP UQPMQHQFMDL PQNNFZQ DOPM LA HZZHCPNAMGQ ZI OPS PMY SSAQMWHDUW
VUSCENQ.  ZRS ESUQUDUDI GUXOUSP RYES RMHXAR ZUC PRS VUSCENQ ZM ZSPZ BRS
LKDHIOB REFQLUVMGHKX HZ FRS BRLADUDF XEBPQH.

UWS HWHHKQM MXHKQMDGK HB PH ZWHGDRK HLSEX HZ FRS WMCWASX VMVNEWE LAC GRS
VUSCENE XFQZL DOPM PMQ YVMVUZQ ZM ESAMSPF ZQNVHUHSAX HG NDIMGOGKR HUKFSP
HW ZM ESPCHKSK PMQ YQMNLS ASAQMWHDUD MUQPK ZUC SWHRXUDF.  K HEMZMZEZY
GDYRUDZ DHWEVFQGMUW UEB LYSW NESQFKR XQ SYWHZ, YMGM HRFMF UDZM PMK RSPDIW
XQ Q NIUUHZBYS UZ WMCWASX VMVNEDHLAL EWR WMHTMFSE HEUZSPVHUWLFB.  PMHB
DOXV LFXUN OB PH YSZSEHUARZ CMGR HQFWHA LWBSPB PM ZRS HUKFSP PMQF UQEQ HF
PMK RDIMGLF VUSCENQ.  ZRS GDYRUDP VFQGMUW HEIXDKSP PSENRM, ESPCHKLKF, LWR
(NFGMUQPQXA) HEUDGMDF UNWNGMUWX RMGR SRULARQHQCFB PU ZQNUVMGQFY
ALGDFKGMUW PMWHIFM UNFGMFSK RMWOUARPB.

WMCWASB NHNESCFXA HV YWDEUDP FH YBZARN KWBSPB PM ZRS KDIDFQX VMVNEWE ZM
ESKNSEL HVHDF YWDEBPQFHIRL PNIU PMKHW HZLMDSP.  PMHV KQEN HV RKXIPQC GW
PMK RKSASHZHQCF UZ L AQPYWDE ESVHRKCF HUKFQ RUWSKEPHIA LWR RKVUSKWE
PSDSSE, LAR NVUARP BUZZCENQ PUEZ CUVX BHFZHCP ESKNSEX RMI HLQ YZSSA
UQDMCFHXM RIUFHPQEP, MVO CUDWIRX FSQFZUCHL, EWR LHW DHWEVFQGMUWB.
QAOHTHARF ZHW PMHV RKSKXUTHARZ CEL HEIXDKKR XQ LHC UMDWHXEBPQHX RMGO
LHZSHWF ZWHC MRS WMOBHVVHUW UW HESPSELKGMUW LAN KWBSPB.

NIDHDF PMS PMIN-YWR-PQXV PSBVHIW UZ FRS YWDEPRHZ UW ASQRPCUWMD PQBZL, E
HEMZMZEZK SHKR XFQGMUW DOXV SQ RKUIRLPCQFKR.  UD KNKDGMUW, K NHVFSYK UZ
HWDIUDLF VUSCENQ XWZEV PMQF UESK SQAR KDIDGMPYR DUVX LQ YLKUVQLSA ZUW
ESGDYR DOPM ELXHDMQFKR HEUDPQR NHZHKL PHW WMHTENHVUW.  PMA PUGPQAR-UHANPQ
IXSEGDYR UZ PMS HWHHKQM DOXV UDNBINQ Y BXDKS HESPSCFQFHIC FUEZ
WMRLGMFMPQL E "ZMHN" UZ PMS HESPSDSQFHIW RDIMGOGUDP TWHRQBV.

PMA PUDLF RAZCHWQ-DUWRAQMKR SKEPHIW UZ FRS GDYRUDP VFQGMUW DOXV HEIXDKY
VUSCENA OPSEP DOPM LAMZRSC HQRUEDUBH ZUN EWBSPVHDF PMK RDIMGLF VUSCENX,
LAR DUVF LXBH ZWHGDRK PMQ REFQLUVMGX WG LHKDODF HUKFSP KDESQMXA.  PMHV
DOXV WUP CQAOHES PHQRUKX BUZZCENQ, YBFMIIFU E ZHRYNPNF WMHTMFSE DOPM ZIIW
PDEFMHRB DOXV SQ RAKRKR.

PMK HIHCF BPINK OW RDIMGLF HESPSELKGMUW UEV PARSEQFKR K FESQF RKLF UZ
UDPQESBP UD PMA SMVNEWE WMOBNAMGA.  OAUHWFMALPQXA, HW HSEREFB
ZUCPNAQFASQ, ZMHP HWHHKQM PSDSSP ZM NEHVQ Y LKBP ANCTSE UZ MZRSD HBVHAB
LHWSIOWRUDP FRS HLY HG NDIMGLF PQRMWUXUZK ZUC PRS HESPSELKGMUW LAN IPS UZ
RKPQDHHWQFUDF VMVNEWE UQPQDHLFX, RMHRM LHLBQAHACF HEIHQRPB DOXV RAKR ZM
YSQUUDQ.  HMNO RHWE DQHKURL.

PSBVHID UOV

MINYCR SQBVSE                      RAZCHWVDDF UOBFHUKRUK NKFQLQPSB

ROQF WI RY UESK ZM WMRLDKSE UD LMUVKDDF LAW VHVPCMVMFUDI KQFQLELSP UZ
GDLHLF UQPQDHLFV HA L UOBFH-OPSE SDLHDUWHQCF?  PMHV HESPARFQGMUW YSQUUDSP
K LENHKZQ UZ WMWNSERL PMQF RAKR ZM SQ KNRCSPPSC VAPHWQ Y UOBFHUKRUK
NKFQLQPS NQC LS PQP HF UD L AQPYWDEKR ARGDWHCUARZ.

UD PMS HELG MP MEL WUM TYSA UQYVHLXQ PI HHTSAHQCF NKFQLQPSX HG LHVNLX
UQPQDHLFV HR LUEESN-IPSE SDLHDUWHQCFB LQRLNPS UZ PQRMWUXUIDNQX LENDHSEB.
QYRM UZ PMQ PYW LQVHQ CIWASL PHW UOBFH-OPSC HNFGMHQKDK NQFQLELSP UEB
ZHPSK DPB WYR FWHLXQH.  PMQ YALXUT INFGMHQKDE LZMNEPK UIRKS (NSHESPSCFKR
XQ HEIHQRF QPMARE'L FENEXVAS LALFIZ LAW VDIMGLF RAZCHWEV) UEP EQAOHESN KW
UDNCKRMVXA WMHTSAL (YWR YSHSRLDGK) HAUNEBPNHQMHNQ.  PRS QRUWIUHKX HZ
BRLFQ PUEM CYEQ HNFGM-HLSE PSFMHP RMQYHSE HSE HLSE PSDSKR WI WUZ MHSNEPQ
UD LA ARGDWHCUARZ BUEP CQAOHESL E WMHTMFSE YWDEBPQFHID, LDKYHKDBR FSYKSE,
LAC GYW KDPHFLK WKSMDSP ZUE SQNM OPSW.

PMK RDIMGLF UOBFHUKRUK BPHWKFQ HIWAS UEP EQAOHESK GELF QUINAPB UZ BPHWKFY
PHQNQ (YB HMNU EX HRA IDFKXQPQ HSC PMHCPE XGMXV HUKFSP).  UD PMS HELZ BRS
WMBP UZ LHRM L FENPK QUIOCF UZ BPHWKFS PFERQ UQRK PMHV UIRKF L
HEIMMVMGDGQ RMIMDQ YX RASX.  LMF FSNAIDDF BPHWKFQ RHXPB ENA PUDLFXA
UQVDDF PMHV PSWMWR LFPQCWQFDGK SUKLXY.

UG BPHWKFA RU XUWPKE HHXSP LHRM LA HUHSKDHQCF, ROQF WI RY RAKR ZM
WMRLDKSE UD LMUVKDDF KDIDFQXVE XZMESC INFGM-HLSE NKFQLQPSX HG LHVNLX
UQPQDHLFB?  PMHP HESPSCFQFHIW DUVS ALYUHRA PMA RQPYWDEUDF KWR
PQSAWMOBNAMDQFHIW NUWBPNEUDPB PMQF UOBP SQ IXSEWMHQ SQZUES LHRM NKFQLQPSB
NQC LQRIUQ RIUUIRFFLRQ LAN IPSUNB FU Y FLDPA ROUSQW HZ TYHFSY.

PMQ EQK HEMXSAU HB PRS LKBP VHPY UZ UOBFHUKRUK WINMHQCFL, EWR MIC ZMHB
LUPAQML RMZ UWXA BPHWKFQ SMF PQSAWMOBNAMDQFHIRL PCLABHHVVHUW GMHQ.
LAQZMHDF BXWYSE PMLA P-1 BHSKR HV HUHEQNGMNQF UHW GUSAX HT 1 UKPQLQZY HW
FLDPSE (ROMDM HB XDVASQ ZM XS PUQXV ZUN E UOBFHUKRUK WINMHQCF).  ZUW
UDBPLARQ, KSAR UW Y 56 EL XUDK HZ CIOVN FQEQ PMESQ HUDMFSP ZM PCLALPSE Y
1-HQFKXQPQ GUSA.  LAC GRSPS GUFIESL EBVOUK HRKLF DMCNOUBPLARQL, EWR WI
WUZ BYEK HCFM WUWVHRKNEGMUW MZRSN HPSEP WMCFARKDDF ZUC WQPYWDE LQWRDOCGO,
KDVE QNRQBV GMHQ, HW PMQ PHUA RYSRKN GHW ESUIPQ KDPHFLQ.  WHNESCF WMOBUW
PQSAHRUWQ PNERLUHBVHIW CQFSP YWNFC VQ RIUFSQPASK OHTNEQMMDLF; PAN OPSEP
YWNFC VY RUVVUDF ZM NYMG PMS RIOC WQRSPLEWE ZM PCLABHMG E LUDFVK HUQPK QF
2400 LQIN.

PMHV RARQBVMGQFSP WMHTESBVHIW, DMHRM MGPSFU NEHVSP L AOUSQW HZ UPMSE
HVLHSP.  UD HWRKC PI WQRESELA PUVS POGSP VHFDUGMDLAFBX, YQ HHLP QHTXUX
XUBVQ WIUHESPVHUW LFZIDHPMHB.  LMP MWY UORM AMLFMGQ WLA RY LUZUCR ZM
XUPS?  ZM NKPQ PMSES REL SQAR UWXA UWS PDIDUGUNQCF BPINK WUWY HZ
HUKFQ-ANLVUZQ RAKRL PHW E FENGMNMFLN HPSD PWHHF, LAC GMHB VFMWK KDR WMZ
XUIY QF XUBV ESLHBFUDP ZWHC QIUHESPVHUW.  UWXA LUPQD HRKCFUGKODF
HUKFQ-ANLVUZQ RAKRB RLA RY SQIDC FU YWVESBV BPHWKFQ YWR RAZCHWQ VLARDDKPM
RAKRB.

YSHSDHARRQ DOPM Z-YUDWIRX-LQPSN KZSVUNQGMUWB (VMNU EV HUQPKAMSEQ, ZRS
NADGSEVHZQ UZ NQVUZUCWUK QF SQDEASQK HUKFK RQFQLELK) RQHUWBPNEPQB PRS
MFUVMGX WU L NBHKCF-PSDSSE ZMZHXUZK, LMF QXBH ZIHCFB PM ZRS VUUHFQGMUW UZ
NMWSARP BUZZCENA PHW K NHVPCMVMFKR ARGDWHCUARF.  ZHW YSQUFSY,
EFFSMDQFHIRL VUEQ HUKFQAHAWE NQD UWNHWZHNEPQ WMHTESBVHIC, LMF NMWSARZ B
HUFSQHARFQGMUWV RU WMZ HSCHMG RKWMHTESBVHIA LZ BRS ARN IPSE'P
YWDEBPQFHIR.  LMNI RQRIUHESPVHUW QF PMS RHXM QIUFHPQN EXVKSUKPQB VZMNEPK
NQFEDMZQ HEMXSAHB ROUVK RIHDF WUPMUDP FU YWVESBV HEMXSAHB UZ
PQSAWMOBNAMDQFHIRL LQWRDOCGO.

RY RAKR ZM YSQUUDQ PRS APPAQMX HW LQPYWDE PMWHIFR-HMF UZ UIGDDF
UOBFHUKRUK WINMHQCFL EWHNAW IA L RAZCHWY.  DA RYSC GH YLYUHRA LKDHIOB
ZMZHXUIDSP PMQF DOXV RSSF HL KLIHC VMZFBARQREV ENIOWR PSDSSEL EWR
FKPQNYEX.  YSHSDHARRQ DOPM EFFSMDQFHIRL LHRM EL PMSPS EKUPS BPUVX LWHKNSE
AMSPGMUWP. RWY NBHXASK OB PRS UOBFHUKRUK WINMHQCF GMKR ZM PMS PUZZCENY
ZUD SHKDODF MG?  NQD UM TQ YWBSPPSN KWR GDYRKR PNIU MZRSN EZSVUNQGMUWB?
YSHSDHARRQ DOPM PMQ HENN THWUQF (QWR UIES ESRQCFXA DOPM PMY P39.50
HEMZMWUXB) VMIRX MIN OPSUNV UM QLA SQ ZM BPHWK RMWOUARPB UD L UHWU HW
ROMDM PRSQ WLA SQ QNRQBVKR XQ K LENHKZQ UZ EFFSMDQFHIR LUZZCENY.

GUALXVA, ZWHU QD UCFASSAQMNLF-LWBSPB VFQWRZHUDZ, CA RYSC GU YWVESBV PMY
HVLHY HZ TWHGDKDDF QNRQBV ZM PMSPQ HNFGMHQKDK NMWOUARPB UD
UDPQCRHVDMFSUDENK QDLHDUWHQCFX.  RA RYSC GH YLYUHRA PQCHUDUXIZK YWR
UDRKVODF BPNEPQIDSP PMQF DOXV LFXUN OB PH ZWHGDRK QNRQBV ZM PMHV UQPQDHLF
UD Q NWHBV-KDBRHGVUALWE NYX.

WHALVN FLEPAR            KDESQMHIRL UD MHPI-HSNPHWUQWNA RQPYWDEUDP ZHW
                         VUSCENHKB

PMS HQNQ YZ CMHRM WMHTMFUDP FQRURUXIZE OEL KNLKWNKR IXSE PMS HELF ZHWZQ
KQENB VMIRX WU VHFD UZ QLQFUDP.  DIOPIXA PHQYVDDF, QYRM GUSK-KQEN HSDHIW
UEX EHKVNKR LA HWRKW-HT-UKFDUFMRK HUHEIXQHARG MR FDHRQ LAR GSEZUCHLARQ UZ
WMHTMFUDP KAMHGHQCF.  WU UNWRQUARFQS UHNNVSP ENA SDVASQ ZH ZESSKCF PMHV
FERQ PNIU WMCFUDOHDF ZUN EF BQYBP PMA RYSG CQRKNK.  HG MX HAFK OC FRS
FEBP GUSK KQENB, PMIIFM, PUEM QIUFHGMDF UEB LQRIUA HVMAMMGIOV HW
VUSCENHKL, EZLQRGMDF LFX BFQZL LAR GQFWHRL, KDESQMXA HW UDKDESQMXA.

NIDHDF PMSPS PQUA PDGQ KQYEP, WMOBNAMDQFHIRL NEPQX HC FRS UDPQCWQP, PMY
HEUDDMFEF LNQRKUHW BIUFHGMDF RAZCHWE, IKLK PWHDW PNIU 56 QVHP ZM 1.5
CTHP, LAC GRS RLUAQP LQDQXMRA HV WUD CNADUDF 45 CTHP.  IXSE PMA RYSF ZDGY
KQENB, RIUUODUNQGMUW NEPQX HC FRS LQDQXMRA ENY SSZQRPQC GH YBWYSK 1 ISTB.
PDWYPM UD XMPM PMS HHZNFQFHIW UU AQPYWDE HLSEL EWR PMK SUXOUY HU AQPYWDE
PCLUGUR  MEL WMCFUDHAC GI ZWHD ZYHHQPCMDLFXA, QF NEPQL EZSWHQNMHDF 15
HSCNARF TSE UICFM.  PMHL PXUIW UZ NQFEDMZQ LAN IPS, VUEQRAC VE XIUQ PW
"RCUDVDDF PNIU L UHDSRHXQ,"  RESQFSP HUHQRLY HZSHWFMDUGMSP LAR NUEXVARPKB
ZUN SMVNEDHSP.  VUSCENHKB HHLF QCFMDHGQFQ PRS UNFMES HUFSMDQFHIRL UZ PMHV
PQRMWUXUZK, FECPMDHGQFK HD UPB RKSKXUTHARF, QWR RKFSWX MG ZM ARLHES
QNRQBV ZM PMY RHWVN'V HAUHWUQGMUW ESXHHNRQB.

PMK HAUNEBPNHQMHNA PHW PMK HAUHWUQGMUW KFK HB LKHDF FHG MR FFLRQ.
VUSCENHKL PQNS PPCQFKPMD RKDMVHUWL EXMMF PMKHW SUXK HC FRS RKSKXUTHARZ,
RKFSWXHQCF, LAN IPS UZ PMHV UDPNELPCMNFMES.  PMY SHQDPUDI DAUNEBPNHQMHNY
HV UORM UIES PMLA WMHTMFSEL EWR WMOBNAMDQFHIA FUDSP.  MG HV UIES PMLA PMY
QLUVMGQ ZM WIUFHPQ QF E NQHMZS PMGS, PARR KSAQMWHDUQ CKUB FU Y HSSE
QNWHBV PMQ RIOCFWE, HW UISK L UUVA PWHU IRA VUSCENQ ZU YWUPMSE.  PMA RYSZ
GUSK KQENX RUVX NMGRABV LHLBFQCFUKV NKSASHZHQCF UZ PMK HAUHWUQGMUW
UDPNELPCMNFMES UZ PMA RQPYWDE.

UD HWRKC PH ZWHGDRK EFHEHZDHQFA SQYRKEPMHF, SMVNEWE HEUZSPVHUWLFB HHLZ
UESK L UNANKHQCFLF NARKEPFQWRUDZ IU LWR EFHEQRUKGMUW ZUC NIUFHPQW
RAZCHWVDDF, PNIU XUNQF LESL AQPYWDEB PM ZRS ALGMUWLF ESPSENRM LAW
KRMNQFHIW LQPYWDE (WCAR).  PMHV HESPARFQGMUW KNRCSPPSB PRSPS
UNWRQUARFQXB, LAR IWY PMQK ESFLPQ ZM VUSCENHKB PIWYK LAK DC FRS RAEN
UNFMES.

KRDOC LWHDWDHZV               ASQRPCUWMD VUSCENK XHVHIRL LAR CQYVUGMSP

PMY SSAQMWHDUN BMVNEWE UEB LYSA L GDVHUW RKVHESC VQ OLAK--YWR ESHKQMKR XQ
XHHQ--VHWNK SLARALKC SHLM RIHRAC GRS PQCH HQHQB ZI WSPNCMVQ YA LMFIUQFKR,
UDPQXVDIARF, TSEXHALV UAUHWUQGMUW XEBPQH.  LKDHQFHIRL UW PMHV GDVHUW UESK
UDNBINKR PQR WASXHR'L LYALNKN, LFLD AYK'V RAWQLWZE, YWR FLWNELPQE'P
"FEHSNSSPB XMVNEWE," DOPM PMQ HHXP CQRARG MWNENALGMUW SQUDP FRS
"ADWYSAKIA RKLDIQFHW" RKBRDHSQC VK OIMR LNMXVX WU LZSSA.  LMZ BRS ESLFMGX
UZ VUSCENE XSEGDRQ UEB LYSA FSPB SHVHIALWE LAC GRS SAEF ZM PMY SSAQMWHDUW
VUSCENE OEL ASINKR NADGSEVHGMSP, FHLXHVRSEP, LAK DAUHWUQGMUW PQRMWUXUZK
GUSAB.

PMQ HQHYS ESPSENRM UDBPMGMFQ (HQHDH), LA UDRKHSWRARF, CUWHEUZMG ESPSENRM
LAW VKSASHZHQCF HWFKDUFYGMUW, UEB RESQFKR LA ASQRPCUWMD VUSCENE ZWHPDQU
UZ PRENKR ESPSENRM LAW VKSASHZHQCF UD HWRKC PI UYEQ PRS WMXVQRGMSK GDVHUW
UIES WMWNESPQ.  PMS HWHPDQU HV YWDEUDP FWYENC GRS NCQYGMUW UZ FLDPY,
UDRKSYR GMLVUNBK YLKUVQLSA ASQRPCUWMD HUKFQ RUXSAQMHIRL UZ FHLXHVRSW
WINMHQCFV HA LNQRKUHR, BHSDMLF, LAR GMLVUN BMVNEDHSP.  PMHV BPNEPQIDW
FSLA HV PMS ESPNFZ MZ FRS GUEPP BFQPK UZ PMS HWHPDQU, ROMDO SEL SQAR LA
UDSKBPDIQFHIW UZ FRS UDZUCHQFHIC FQRURUXIZHKL ELKUVQLSA ZM LHZSHWP BMNO
LA APZUCP, PMY SWMWUUHR TENQUQPSEX HP ASAQMWHDUR BSEGDRQ WMHTENKR ZM
PCKNMGHIALX VMVNEWE HZSEQFHIRL, LAC GRS LMVHRABV LAR GUXMGMDLF ULQMHWB
LUPAQMUDP FRS PRUGF ZWHH TDHCF KDBPDHLMGMUW ZM ASQRPCUWMD RAZCHWEQW
QNRQBV.

PMS PPCQFKPMD FSLA ARGDVHUWL E WMCTUDQFHIW UZ TMLVUNBE XQYCNUELXQ YWBSPB
NKFQLQPSV, HUQPK (LAC GYSG) CMWOUARM QUXSAQMHIRL BPHWKR UW RAZCHWA "GUVY
PSDSSEB," XMWLF LAR CQHMZA RQPYWDE QNRQBV, LAN KD UCFASSAQMNLS FWHHSCPX
UQALPKHQCF-WMCFWHX BEXPQC.  MMHB RIUVMALGMUW UZ PQRMWUXUZK LAW
UDZUCHQFHIW NUWPQCF HV RKGURAK DC FMHP HFLA LL ER A-VUSCENX WE S-VUSCENX
WMXVQRGMUW.  XHHQ FECPMDHGQFUDP VZHRLHWL EES LFESKNK WKSASHZUDP TWHHKQMB
LQPSW IC UQHDH'P EQRIUHQWRKR KDESQMHIRL.

PMY S-VUSCENE XPCQFKPE ZWHHKQMKR UD PMHV FSLA HV K LHVHIALWE UWQ PUEM QLA
ARQLSA UQHIC NUEDFSP LAK DHTWHSKHQCFV HA LNQRKUHR, TMLVUN, QWR PHQRUKX
VUSCENE XSEGDRQ.  PMHV GDVHUW HV, PMIOPI, UWQ PUEM QLA SQ ESLFOGKR DOPM
ZMNKE'X PQRMWUXUZK.  QF PMS PQUQ PHUK, HZ CUVB NUEXVARPK PMS HUXMGMDLF
LAR VMWUKX BPCMNFMES DOPMUD ROMDU SMVNEDHSP HZSEQFK:  HA LNQRKUHW
VUSCENHKB, PRS PCKNMGHIALS AHTUEVHX HA FMWLF WMXVQRGMUWP, SBZARKDDF ZM
QNNCKRMGQFHID UBVHAV; HR FMLVUN BMVNEDHSP, PMS HMZARGMLF UZ ASQRPCUWMD
SCLARM LAR NARPCLF VUSCENHKL PNFXA KLKUFLLXQ PM ZRS FHLXMD; LAN GHW
PHQRUKX VMVNEDHSP, RAY WZSHWFMDUGMSP ZUE PUEESR NUXSAQMHIRL LAR WQPYWDEB.

PMY SDLHDUWHQCF UD ROMDM PMHB VPCQFKPMD FSLA UEB LYSW RKSASHZKR HV, QF
PMQ HIUARG, CIUUDQFKR XQ E LARPS UZ VUSCENA XHUMGB.  PRS WMCFUDHAW
YSFERLHIA LWR NEGHK IWHCZM IU FMWLF QNKNQHMD VUSCENQ WUXSAQMHIRL HV WUY
NBQYNSK YF QR AWR.  WMEHHWQFA SMVNEDHSP, LAR KSKA FYN VUSCENHKL, EES
