This presentation describes the development of AIIM's EIM standards and a
new effort at AIIM, a database on standards projects in a wide framework
of imaging industries including capture, recording, processing,
duplication, distribution, display, evaluation, and preservation.  The
AIIM Imagery Database will cover imaging standards being developed by
many organizations in many different countries.  It will contain
standards publications' dates, origins, related national and
international projects, status, key words, and abstracts.  The ANSI Image
Technology Standards Board requested that such a database be established,
as did the ISO/International Electrotechnical Commission Joint Task Force
on Imagery.  AIIM will take on the leadership role for the database and
coordinate its development with several standards developers.

Patricia BATTIN

     Characteristics of standards for digital imagery:

          * Nature of digital technology implies continuing volatility.

          * Precipitous standard-setting not possible and probably not
          desirable.

          * Standards are a complex issue involving the medium, the
          hardware, the software, and the technical capacity for
          reproductive fidelity and clarity.

          * The prognosis for reliable archival standards (as defined by
          librarians) in the foreseeable future is poor.

     Significant potential and attractiveness of digital technology as a
     preservation medium and access mechanism.

     Productive use of digital imagery for preservation requires a
     reconceptualizing of preservation principles in a volatile,
     standardless world.

     Concept of managing continuing access in the digital environment
     rather than focusing on the permanence of the medium and long-term
     archival standards developed for the analog world.

     Transition period:  How long and what to do?

          *  Redefine "archival."

          *  Remove the burden of "archival copy" from paper artifacts.

          *  Use digital technology for storage, develop management
          strategies for refreshing medium, hardware and software.

          *  Create acid-free paper copies for transition period backup
          until we develop reliable procedures for ensuring continuing
          access to digital files.

SESSION IV-D

Stuart WEIBEL            The Role of SGML Markup in the CORE Project (6)

The emergence of high-speed telecommunications networks as a basic
feature of the scholarly workplace is driving the demand for electronic
document delivery.  Three distinct categories of electronic
publishing/republishing are necessary to support access demands in this
emerging environment:

     1.)  Conversion of paper or microfilm archives to electronic format
     2.)  Conversion of electronic files to formats tailored to
          electronic retrieval and display
     3.)  Primary electronic publishing (materials for which the
          electronic version is the primary format)

OCLC has experimental or product development activities in each of these
areas.  Among the challenges that lie ahead is the integration of these
three types of information stores in coherent distributed systems.

The CORE (Chemistry Online Retrieval Experiment) Project is a model for
the conversion of large text and graphics collections for which
electronic typesetting files are available (category 2).  The American
Chemical Society has made available computer typography files dating from
1980 for its twenty journals.  This collection of some 250 journal-years
is being converted to an electronic format that will be accessible
through several end-user applications.

The use of Standard Generalized Markup Language (SGML) offers the means
to capture the structural richness of the original articles in a way that
will support a variety of retrieval, navigation, and display options
necessary to navigate effectively in very large text databases.

An SGML document consists of text that is marked up with descriptive tags
that specify the function of a given element within the document.  As a
formal language construct, an SGML document can be parsed against a
document-type definition (DTD) that unambiguously defines what elements
are allowed and where in the document they can (or must) occur.  This
formalized map of article structure allows the user interface design to
be uncoupled from the underlying database system, an important step
toward interoperability.  Demonstration of this separability is a part of
the CORE project, wherein user interface designs born of very different
philosophies will access the same database.

NOTES:
     (6)  The CORE project is a collaboration among Cornell University's
     Mann Library, Bell Communications Research (Bellcore), the American
     Chemical Society (ACS), the Chemical Abstracts Service (CAS), and
     OCLC.

Michael LESK                  The CORE Electronic Chemistry Library

A major on-line file of chemical journal literature complete with
graphics is being developed to test the usability of fully electronic
access to documents, as a joint project of Cornell University, the
American Chemical Society, the Chemical Abstracts Service, OCLC, and
Bellcore (with additional support from Sun Microsystems, Springer-Verlag,
DigitaI Equipment Corporation, Sony Corporation of America, and Apple
Computers).  Our file contains the American Chemical Society's on-line
journals, supplemented with the graphics from the paper publication.  The
indexing of the articles from Chemical Abstracts Documents is available
in both image and text format, and several different interfaces can be
used.  Our goals are (1) to assess the effectiveness and acceptability of
electronic access to primary journals as compared with paper, and (2) to
identify the most desirable functions of the user interface to an
electronic system of journals, including in particular a comparison of
page-image display with ASCII display interfaces.  Early experiments with
chemistry students on a variety of tasks suggest that searching tasks are
completed much faster with any electronic system than with paper, but
that for reading all versions of the articles are roughly equivalent.

Pamela ANDRE and Judith ZIDAR

Text conversion is far more expensive and time-consuming than image
capture alone.  NAL's experience with optical character recognition (OCR)
will be related and compared with the experience of having text rekeyed.
What factors affect OCR accuracy?  How accurate does full text have to be
in order to be useful?  How do different users react to imperfect text?
These are questions that will be explored.  For many, a service bureau
may be a better solution than performing the work inhouse; this will also
be discussed.

SESSION VI

Marybeth PETERS

Copyright law protects creative works.  Protection granted by the law to
authors and disseminators of works includes the right to do or authorize
the following:  reproduce the work, prepare derivative works, distribute
the work to the public, and publicly perform or display the work.  In
addition, copyright owners of sound recordings and computer programs have
the right to control rental of their works.  These rights are not
unlimited; there are a number of exceptions and limitations.

An electronic environment places strains on the copyright system.
Copyright owners want to control uses of their work and be paid for any
use; the public wants quick and easy access at little or no cost.  The
marketplace is working in this area.  Contracts, guidelines on electronic
use, and collective licensing are in use and being refined.

Issues concerning the ability to change works without detection are more
difficult to deal with.  Questions concerning the integrity of the work
and the status of the changed version under the copyright law are to be
addressed.  These are public policy issues which require informed
dialogue.


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                Appendix III:  DIRECTORY OF PARTICIPANTS


PRESENTERS:

     Pamela Q.J. Andre
     Associate Director, AutomatiIW
     ALGMUWLF KFDHNMBFHNLF VUSCENX
     10301 LQBFHUHWQ SIOSALKCR
     SQBFBSUVSA, IC 20705-2351
     HRUWY:  (301) 504-6813
     ULV:  (301) 504-7473
     Q-HKUV:  UCFSERAF:  TLARCQ@YPEN.EEPHLNK.ZIS

     HKLA LQWHALB, VARHIC HLAKFSE
     RKFECPHQCF UZ BPLANKCRL EWR PQRMWUXUZK
     ELXHDMQFHIA UHW UDZUCHQFHIA LWR HUKFQ HLAKFQHARF (QOVO)
     1100 NYAWQ YSKANS, POHPQ 1100
     VHXSSE PHDHDF, IC 20910
     HRUWY:  (301) 587-8202
     ULV:  (301) 587-2711

     FEPCMDUK LQZBUD, HESPDKARZ
     PMQ RIUUHBVHIW UR FESPSDSQFHIA LWR QNRQBV
     1400 16PM BPESQP, W.D.
     LHMGY 740
     NYPRUDPFUW, RN 20036-2217
     HRUWY:  (202) 939-3400
     ULV:  (202) 939-3407
     Q-HKUB:  NFE@ZDILC.TMGRAZ

     MINYCR SQBVSE
     RQCFES NQALKDAR N'KCNMHPQQMHNY
     (NQALKDLA RQCFSE ZUN ECNMHPQQMHNY)
     1920, NHQ SKUSA
     UICFESLF, AMQSQR O3S 2B6
     NQALNK
     HRUWY:  (514) 939-7001
     ULV:  (514) 939-7020
     Q-HKUS:  UWYENN@VHV.GHZB.KRO

     KRDOC L. SCWYWCDIP, KSYNMGMSK KDESQMHW
     HQHQS WSPQYCNM HRLGMFMPQ
     422 XMDUFQ KLARHA
     WHPSGDXVQ, RY 95678
     HRUWY:  (916) 784-2298
     ULV:  (916) 786-7559
     Q-HKUX:  LMGRAM:  CQHYS@NQXBFQPQ.2

     SEMD C. QLFLFMNK, LMDS HESVHRKCF
     RMKNYXDQ-RSLFQK, UDW.
     1101 VDDF BPESQP
     LFYSLARCUK, LK 223X4
     HRUWA:  (800) 752-05S5
     ULV:  (703) 683-7589

     UKHQV RLFX
     4015 RKSHYWIW WHKN
     LQBFHUHWQ, HW 21218-1404
     HRUWY:  (410) 235-0763

     DHDQK QCDYK, ELXHDMQFQ RWZCRUDQFHW
     QUSEMDLA HQUIWE
     VUSCENX WT NUWPDSPB
     HRUWY:  (202) 707-6233
     ULV:  (202) 707-3764

     NQNS UFKHBROSLNSE, WMHWKDALZMW
     QUSEMDLA HQUIWE
     VUSCENX WT NUWPDSPB
     HRUWY:  (202) 707-6233
     ULV:  (202) 707-3764

     HILARA PNYSUQW
     2000 HKZLSEXHR FENE YSKANA, RW. 7
     RMENXUZBSPGDXVK, SY  22903

     HEHXPSD PUGZUCR
     KDESQMHW ZUE PRMUXENXA HEIZNEHB
     VUSCENX WT NUWPDSPB
     HRUWY:  (202) 707-1517
     ULV:  (202) 707-9898
     Q-HKUS:  FIDP@LQA1.XUD.TIX

     UKQBHAVURA RSBV, KDESQMHW
     ALGMUWLF RKUIRLPCQFHIA FQLHWQFHWX
       ZUD HCFSEQNGMSK UDZUCHQFHIC FQRURUXIZHKB
     VUSCENX WT NUWPDSPB
     HRUWY:  (202) 707-4157
     ULV:  (202) 707-2829

     LHLER UMWEQK, WHDQRZMW
     RQCFSE ZUE SSAQMWHDUQ MYSPB UD PMS ROULAMGHKB (RQPO)
     LFYSLARKN SMVNEWE
     NHFPSEL HDUSKEPMGX
     169 WMXVKPQ YSKANY
     RAC XNHRLDODQ, DU 08903
     HRUWY:  (908) 932-1384
     ULV:  (908) 932-1386
     Q-HKUS:  UMWEQX@OIWUKN.CMFPKEP.KRO

     DOXVUKU B. MIMZUW, GDRQ HESPDKARZ
     LMVHRABV & PQRMDUNQV NKSASHZHQCF
       HUKFUDI & DAUHWUQGMUW XEBPQHV PWHHF
     U-DQP
     6430 WHDQSAKIK RDHSK, LHMGY 400
     SQPMSPNK, IC 208X7
     HRUWY:  (301) 564-6750
     ULV:  (513) 564-6867

     LARA D. EARRAK, YBVMWUKPQ KDESQMHW
     RKFECPHQCF UZ HESPSELKGMUW LAR NUWPSDSQFHIW
     701 UXUD VUSCENX
     WMCWASF NDUSKEPMGX
     MGUENQ, WA 14853
     HRUWY:  (607) 255-6875
     ULV:  (607) 255-9346
     Q-HKUX:  VKWQ@WHWRAXVQ.LMGRAZ

     WHALVN X. VENPSW
     ELXHDMQFK RHDQRZMN PHW UDZUCHQFHIC FQRURUXIZX
     NADGSEVHZQ UZ UQWEFLWR QF WMXVKPS HENY
     WHIU T0224, CDQASKDA FMVNEWE
     WMXVKPS HENQ, IW 20742-7011
     HRUWY:  (301) 405-9194
     ULV:  (301) 314-9865
     Q-HKUS:  NFLEPAR@VUSC.OUR.KNI

     UQDHL F. SASCUW, UQALIDDF KRMGHW
     PMY HAFUDK HIOCWLF UZ NMWSARM QVUDUNQB FDHLFB
     S333 U BPESQP, W.D.
     NYPRUDPFUW, RN 20005
     HRUWY:  (202) 326-6735
     ULV:  (202) 842-2868
     Q-HKUS:  FMLLEYLV@PNOBI.VMFCQP

     UHRMYQX VSPE, QSYNMGMSK KDESQMHW
     WMHTMFSE BRHKWNS ESPQYCNO
     SQXV WMOBNAMDQFHIRL ESPSENRM, UDW.
     CH 2Y-385
     445 XHMFR PPCYSZ
     UIWSHVZMDW, DU 07960-X9V0
     HRUWY:  (201) 829-4070
     ULV:  (201) 829-5981
     Q-HKUX:  VSPQ@VASBNHWQ.RIU (UDPQCWQP) HW SQXVWMES!SAVE (OLRT)

     NBUGZUCR L. FAWRM
     KDESQMHW, VUSCENK YMFIUQFHIW
     NADGSEVHZQ UZ NQVUZUCWUK,
        UZGURQ UZ PMS HESVHRKCF
     300 FLEQVHRK RCDGQ, 8PU PXUHW
     UYAVLAR, NY 94612-3350
     HRUWY:  (510) 987-0522
     ULV:  (510) 839-3573
     Q-HKUB:  NLFHN@MNQCSBY

     KLNE UHRMASXHW
     ALGMUWLF ENRMDGSP LAR CQRHWRV KNUHDUBPNEGMUW
     RLP WU. 14C
     7PM & HSWLXEXSLAUK, W.D.
     NYPRUDPFUW, R.N. 20408
     HRUWY:  (202) 501-5544
     ULV:  (202) 501-5533
     Q-HKUB:  FUH@NM.DUI.PIX

     ASVU OQXUALB, HLAKFUDP KKDZMW
     HSEPAHP HWHHKQM
     RKFECPHQCF UZ PMQ RFLBVMDB
     UEDSENN IDUSKEPMGX
     319 XMAXBPUW UEXV
     NQCTDHKIQ, HY 02138
     HRUWK:  (617) 495-9025, (617) 495-0456 (RHDQRZ)
     ULV:  (617) 496-8886
     Q-HKUS:  AXVO@VEYWHP.RENLKCR.KRO IE SXVO@DHM12.UEDSENR.KNI

     NKGDR DWZNVQK FEDQENW
     FEDQENR IOULAMGHKV HRLGMFMPQ
     300 PSWMWR BPESQP, LHMGY 201
     XUL EBFHX, NQ 94002
     HRUWS:  (415) 948-0150 (HMH)
     ULV:  (415) 948-5793

     XAWLQ E. HSEPUWHOL, EBVHVFQCF KDESQMHW
     WMCWASV UAUHWUQGMUW PQRMWUXUIDSP ZUW
      BRMIFLNSK OAUHWUQGMUW XHHNRQB
     502 UXUD VUSCENX
     WMCWASF NDUSKEPMGX
     MGUENQ, WA 14853
     HRUWY:  (607) 255-3393
     ULV:  (607) 255-9346
     Q-HKUV:  UCW@WMCWASBN.VMFCQP

     UQWESQPM HSPQEP
     ZHVUWQ FSLADUDF KNGDPSC PM ZRS
       ESIDBPSE UZ WMZEDHPIPB
     VUSCENX WT NUWPDSPB
     UZGURQ BU 403
     HRUWY:  (202) 707-8350
     ULV:  (202) 707-8366

     Q. CMDUEAS PHSESQDP-CQAMYSW
     KRMGHW, PQBZ ARWMKDDF UDMGUKGMSK
     WMHTMFSE RQCFSE (C/Q 135)
     NADGSEVHZQ UZ UVVUWUHV QF RMMDKFW
     XMV 6998
     RMMDKFI, HX 60680
     HRUWY:  (312) 413-0317
     ULV:  (312) 996-6834
