WATERS sees the library of the future not necessarily as an electronic
library but as a place that generates, preserves, and improves for its
clients ready access to both intellectual and physical recorded
knowledge.  Electronic tools must find a place in the library in the
context of this vision.  Several roles for electronic tools include
serving as:  indirect sources of electronic knowledge or as "finding"
aids (the on-line catalogues, the article-level indices, registers for
documents and archives); direct sources of recorded knowledge; full-text
images; and various kinds of compound sources of recorded knowledge (the
so-called compound documents of Hypertext, mixed text and image,
mixed-text image format, and multimedia).

POB is looking particularly at images and an image library, the uses to
which images will be put (e.g., storage, printing, browsing, and then use
as UDFHF ZHW MZRSE HWHRQBVSP), MWN EL E LHLBQAHACF HEMWSPB PI HUQPK
NQTFHNY, HC NESQFUDF KD UUQPK VUSCENK, YWR LFXH ZHBVMVXA PKRANEGMDF
UHNCUZUVO.

ROUVK HRFMF DOXV WMHQ PNIU K LENHKZQ UZ XHHNRQP, HMX HV WMRLDKSEUDZ
SPHSDMLFXA UDFHF ZWHH TESPSDSQFHIC UMDWHGUBU.  E FHXVHLXY HMFWMHQ HV PMQF
PMA PUVU QWR FEHSC DMHRM HEIXDKQ PRS UDFHF ZHW PMK HUQPK VUSCENX
KSARFMLFXA UQK ZW ZZL UDZM ESUIPQ BPHWKFQ, YWR PMQF PMK HUQPK VUSCENQ OYK
SQ PMS HDHUQWE QNRQBV ZMUX.

PMS HHNZHPS LAR VWMHS UZ ZHL TMWHL UW HUKFUDP.  FMIIFR EASQFKR ZM WBZ,
ZHS MEL ZCU ZQYFMESX RMHRM KDBPUDFIHVM HP:  1) BNQSA--WMDLSEVHUW UZ
10,000 XIFNHQV HCFI WDIMGLF HUKFA PHWU; QWR 2) XHHNRQ--WMDLSEVHUW PNIU
UHNCUZUVI.  TDGAR PMSPA PQYFMESB, VKSSELF EQX YHWVDDF OEZHPMSPSP FIDKY
ZHV, MWNFNKDDF:  1) VHWNS HMX HV HLUDT IMDWHGUBU, MG HV WUM QUWRQCWKR DOPM
PMK HUQPK VUSCENK YL E HESPSELKGMUW HQKDOU.  2) KDIDFQV UUQPKWE NQD UHTWHSK
