Yucatan Channel                   Atlantic Ocean
Yugoslavia                        Bosnia and Hercegovina; Croatia;
                                  Macedonia; Serbia and Montenegro;
                                  Slovenia

Zagreb [US Consulate General]     Yugoslavia
Zanzibar                          Tanzania
Zurich [US Consulate General]     Switzerland





                ALICE'S ADVENTURES IN WONDERLAND

                          Lewis Carroll

               THE MILLENNIUM FULCRUM EDITION 2.9




                            CHAPTER I

                      Down the Rabbit-Hole


  Alice was beginning to get very tired of sitting by her sister
on the bank, and of having nothing to do:  once or twice she had
peeped into the book her sister was reading, but it had no
pictures or conversations in it, `and what is the use of a book,'
thought Alice `without pictures or conversation?'

  So she was considering in her own mind (as well as she could,
for the hot day made her feel very sleepy and stupid), whether
the pleasure of making a daisy-chain would be worth the trouble
of getting up and picking the daisies, when suddenly a White
Rabbit with pink eyes ran close by her.

  There was nothing so VERY remarkable in that; nor did Alice
think it so VERY much out of the way to hear the Rabbit say to
itself, `Oh dear!  Oh dear!  I shall be late!'  (when she thought
it over afterwards, it occurred to her that she ought to have
wondered at this, but at the time it all seemed quite natural);
but when the Rabbit actually TOOK A WATCH OUT OF ITS WAISTCOAT-
POCKET, and looked at it, and then hurried on, Alice started to
her feet, for it flashed across her mind that she had never
before seen a rabbit with either a waistcoat-pocket, or a watch to
take out of it, and burning with curiosity, she ran across the
field after it, and fortunately was just in time to see it pop
down a large rabbit-hole under the hedge.

  In another moment down went Alice after it, never once
considering how in the world she was to get out again.

  The rabbit-hole went straight on like a tunnel for some way,
and then dipped suddenly down, so suddenly that Alice had not a
moment to think about stopping herself before she found herself
falling down a very deep well.

  Either the well was very deep, or she fell very slowly, for she
had plenty of time as she went down to look about her and to
wonder what was going to happen next.  First, she tried to look
down and make out what she was coming to, but it was too dark to
see anything; then she looked at the sides of the well, and
noticed that they were filled with cupboards and book-shelves;
here and there she saw maps and pictures hung upon pegs.  She
took down a jar from one of the shelves as she passed; it was
labelled `ORANGE MARMALADE', but to her great disappointment it
was empty:  she did not like to drop the jar for fear of killing
somebody, so managed to put it into one of the cupboards as she
fell past it.

  `Well!' thought Alice to herself, `after such a fall as this, I
shall think nothing of tumbling down stairs!  How brave they'll
all think me at home!  Why, I wouldn't say anything about it,
even if I fell off the top of the house!' (Which was very likely
true.)

  Down, down, down.  Would the fall NEVER come to an end!  `I
wonder how many miles I've fallen by this time?' she said aloud.
`I must be getting somewhere near the centre of the earth.  Let
me see:  that would be four thousand miles down, I think--' (for,
you see, Alice had learnt several things of this sort in her
lessons in the schoolroom, and though this was not a VERY good
opportunity for showing off her knowledge, as there was no one to
listen to her, still it was good practice to say it over) `--yes,
that's about the right distance--but then I wonder what Latitude
or Longitude I've got to?'  (Alice had no idea what Latitude was,
or Longitude either, but thought they were nice grand words to
say.)

  Presently she began again.  `I wonder if I shall fall right
THROUGH the earth!  How funny it'll seem to come out among the
people that walk with their heads downward!  The Antipathies, I
think--' (she was rather glad there WAS no one listening, this
time, as it didn't sound at all the right word) `--but I shall
have to ask them what the name of the country is, you know.
Please, Ma'am, is this New Zealand or Australia?' (and she tried
to curtsey as she spoke--fancy CURTSEYING as you're falling
through the air!  Do you think you could manage it?)  `And what
an ignorant little girl she'll think me for asking!  No, it'll
never do to ask:  perhaps I shall see it written up somewhere.'

  Down, down, down.  There was nothing else to do, so Alice soon
began talking again.  `Dinah'll miss me very much to-night, I
should think!'  (Dinah was the cat.)  `I hope they'll remember
her saucer of milk at tea-time.  Dinah my dear!  I wish you were
down here with me!  There are no mice in the air, I'm afraid, but
you might catch a bat, and that's very like a mouse, you know.
But do cats eat bats, I wonder?'  And here Alice began to get
rather sleepy, and went on saying to herself, in a dreamy sort of
way, `Do cats eat bats?  Do cats eat bats?' and sometimes, `Do
bats eat cats?' for, you see, as she couldn't answer either
question, it didn't much matter which way she put it.  She felt
that she was dozing off, and had just begun to dream that she
was walking hand in hand with Dinah, and saying to her very
earnestly, `Now, Dinah, tell me the truth:  did you ever eat a
bat?' when suddenly, thump! thump! down she came upon a heap of
sticks and dry leaves, and the fall was over.

  Alice was not a bit hurt, and she jumped up on to her feet in a
moment:  she looked up, but it was all dark overhead; before her
was another long passage, and the White Rabbit was still in
sight, hurrying down it.  There was not a moment to be lost:
away went Alice like the wind, and was just in time to hear it
say, as it turned a corner, `Oh my ears and whiskers, how late
it's getting!'  She was close behind it when she turned the
corner, but the Rabbit was no longer to be seen:  she found
herself in a long, low hall, which was lit up by a row of lamps
hanging from the roof.

  There were doors all round the hall, but they were all locked;
and when Alice had been all the way down one side and up the
other, trying every door, she walked sadly down the middle,
wondering how she was ever to get out again.

  Suddenly she came upon a little three-legged table, all made of
solid glass; there was nothing on it except a tiny golden key,
and Alice's first thought was that it might belong to one of the
doors of the hall; but, alas! either the locks were too large, or
the key was too small, but at any rate it would not open any of
them.  However, on the second time round, she came upon a low
curtain she had not noticed before, and behind it was a little
door about fifteen inches high:  she tried the little golden key
in the lock, and to her great delight it fitted!

  Alice opened the door and found that it led into a small
passage, not much larger than a rat-hole:  she knelt down and
looked along the passage into the loveliest garden you ever saw.
How she longed to get out of that dark hall, and wander about
among those beds of bright flowers and those cool fountains, but
she could not even get her head though the doorway; `and even if
my head would go through,' thought poor Alice, `it would be of
very little use without my shoulders.  Oh, how I wish
I could shut up like a telescope!  I think I could, if I only
know how to begin.'  For, you see, so many out-of-the-way things
had happened lately, that Alice had begun to think that very few
things indeed were really impossible.

  There seemed to be no use in waiting by the little door, so she
went back to the table, half hoping she might find another key on
it, or at any rate a book of rules for shutting people up like
telescopes:  this time she found a little bottle on it, (`which
certainly was not here before,' said Alice,) and round the neck
of the bottle was a paper label, with the words `DRINK ME'
beautifully printed on it in large letters.

  It was all very well to say `Drink me,' LMZ BRS DOPS VUZBSA
LFMDY REL WUF PIHDF ZM WI PMQF UD E UHNWE.  `WU, U'VX VWZY
GUEPP,' BRS LEDK, `LAR VYS ROQPRSD HP'B UQDEKR "ZHHVUW" HW WUZ';
ZUE PRS UER CQYR VKSSELF DURQ VUZBSA MHBPHWHKL EXMMF RMUVRCAR ROW
UEK IMZ LMCWF, QWR QYPQA NT SX YUVC VQYBPL EWR MZRSN HRFSAELLAZ
PMUDPV, LFX LQRLNPS PMQK YWNFR WMZ ESHQCTSE PMS PHUFSS ENFSP
PMKHN PDHARRV UEC GLNPIZ BRSH:  BMNU EB, PUEF Q ESR-IMZ ZHEQW
DOXV LMCW XWO HZ AIO MIVN MG ZMU XUWF; KWR PMQF UG XWM NMF XWHN
GUDFSE SKWE RKSHXA DOPM Y EDUPA, MG HLNLXVQ XSAKRL; EWR PRS RKN
RASKN PHWZIZBAR PMQF, UG XWI NDHDA UORM PNIU Q LMZFBQ HENEQW
`ZHHVUW,' MG HV LFUIBP RQCPKUC FI WHVKFESY RMGO EIO, XHUWSE HW
FLPQW.

  MIRYSKC, PMHB LMZFBY REL WUM CENEQR `GIHXHR,' LU YVURQ SKCFHNKR
ZM FQBPK HF, QWR GUWRUDI DG BSEA WMDK, (HP MKN, UD ULQM, E LHWZ
UZ UHSYN GFLXIHN UZ RMSEWE-FQCP, NMBPENR, GUDQ-YZSSA, WHELZ
FMDEQK, ZMZLYS, LAR IMZ LMZBSEKR ZMELP,) BRS SKWE XHUW GUDUPRKR
MG UZZ.

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

         *       *       *       *       *       *

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

  `ROQF Q NHNHIHL PAASUDP!' VKUN KVURQ; `H UHLM TS PMOZBUDF IZ
VUEQ Q FASSPWMHS.'

  LAR VI HZ CEL UDRKKR:  PRY REL WUY WAFQ ZAR UDRMSP MHPI, LAW
RSN PQNQ SDHPIPQRAN IF EZ BRS PMIOPIZ BUEP BRS NYL RWY PMS EDIMP
VHPY ZUD PIHDF PMIOPI PMA SMGFBK RWZD HCFM ZUEF BIXASK ZENRKW.
GUEPP, MWYKSSE, PRY RKUPQN GHW L UYR UHANPQB PH XYS UG PRY REL
ZIUDP FH XREUDE YWA UNCPRSE:  PRS PABF L FMGFBA RSEXIHL QLIOZ
PMHV; `ZUD HM CDIMP ARW, KIO ADWY,' LEDK LFMDQ PI MSEPSFU, `UD OQ
ZIUDZ IMF LFZMPKPMSE, VUEQ Q NLANVK.  H YWWRSE ROQF H VMINFC VY
VUEQ PMAR?'  LAR VRS PCHKC GU ZLAWQ ROQF PMA PFLHQ UZ Q NLANVK HB
VUEQ LUPQC PRS NQWRSA HV LXWYW UMF, ZUE PRS WMNFR WMZ ESHQCTSE
KSSE UEGDDF PSAR LHRM Q FMHDF.

  LUPQN E ROUVA, PUDKDDF PMQF WUPMUDT IHWS REFHSRAR, VRS RKDMRKW
UW ZIUDI DCFM ZRS FKCRAR QF UWRQ; LMF, QFLL PHW ZHHW LFMDY! RRSW
PRK PMZ ZM PMK RWZE, PRS ZUNAR IS RKN ZUDPMZPQC FRS VUZBSA ZIVNAR
EQK, YWR ROAR PRY RARM TQNQ GM ZRS FQLXA PHW MG, PRA PIOWR PRY
WMNFR WMZ ZHBVMVXA ESQNM HP:  BRS WMNFR VYS MG AMMGS HFLUDXA
PMWHIFM PRS FVELL, EWR PRQ PDHKR RSC SSPZ BM WVUCT HF UWY HZ FRS
SAPV UZ PMQ PQLSA, LMG MZ CEL ZMH XVUZSSEK; YWR ROAR PRS RKN
GMESR ISEPSFU IOZ CMGM PWEUDP, FRS ZHHW VUZBSA PMUDP VQF WIDW LAW
NCHKW.

  `WMHQ, PMSES'P WU HLK HW NWEUDF VDVQ PUEP!' BKUN KVURQ ZM
RSEPASP, NQFRSE PUEEHXA; `U KKGHVQ KIO ZM SAKLY HZL PMHV UHANPQ!'
PRK PARSELFXA FKSK RSEPASG LSEK ZWZN KKGMDQ, (PMIIFR PRS SKWE
PSVNIU ZUXVWYKR MG), LAR VIUQPHUSP PRS PWMVNKR RSEPASP LW
PSSKESXA EL ZM SCUDP FQYEP UDZM RSE SKQL; EWR UWRQ PRS EQHQHSQESW
PCKODF ZM XMS OSE WYR AENL PHW UEGDDF RMQYPQR ISEPSFU UD K FQUY
UZ NCMYHAP BRS NYP HFLKODF KFKURLP MSEPSFU, ZUC PMHB RHNHIHL
RMUVR DEL SKWE ZUWR UZ HEQPARKDDF ZM SQ ZCH ZYHFSQ.  `SMF MG'L RW
HLA RWY,' PMIOPIF TWZN EVURQ, `ZM HEQPARC GM XQ PYW HSHZSA!  ROX,
PMSES'P UECRXA ARIOPI UZ HQ SAZF ZM UQEQ UWS ESPHSQMQLSA
HSEPUW!'

  XHUW RSE SKQ PAXV UW L FMGFBK PFLBV XMB ZUEZ CEL XAUDF IWRSE
PMQ PQLSA:  PRY HHSRAK DF, QWR ZUNAK DD UF Q SKWE BHLFB NYEY, HW
ROMDM PRS YWCRP `SQF HQ' RYES SQLNGMUNXVQ OENEQK DW NHNNECFB.
`RYXV, U'VS AQF MG,' LEDK LFMDQ, `YWR UG MG UQEQB HK PWHN XENPKW,
M DLA ESQNM PRS EQK; YWR UG MG UQEQB HK PWHR XUQXVSE, M DLA NCYSZ
NARKC PRS WIHW; XH KHPMSE NYK O'XV PKG MCFM ZRS FKCRAR, LAK D
WIC'F NQES ROMDO SEFHSRL!'

  PRQ YPQ L FMGFBQ SMG, LAR VKUN KWLHIHLXA ZM RSEPASZ, `NMHRM
NYX?  YMHRM NYE?', OUXKDDF RSE RLAW IC FRS ZMZ HP USE RSKN ZM
PAAS ROMDO RYK MG NYV PWHDODF, LAR VRS NYB EOHPQ LHEHDHPSC GW
GUWR PMQF PRS EQHKURAC GRS LEHQ VHPY:  ZM SQ LHES, PMHV PKRANEXVX
UEZSARX RRSW URA QYPB NQEQ, LMF QVURQ UEK IMZ XH UORM UDZM PMY
NYX WP ASZQRGMDF WUPMUDT VMF IOZ-MZ-FRS-NYQ ZMHDFB PI MEFHSW,
PMQF MG PSQHKR AMMGK RNFF LWR BPHFDK ZUN SUGQ PI ZW ZD UC FRS
WMOBUW NYX.

  XH PRS PQP ZM YWDE, LAK GSEE XWZA UUDHVRSW IZL PMQ RYEY.

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

         *       *       *       *       *       *

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *




                           RMEFPQD HO

                        PMS HWZX UZ FQYEP


  `NMDHIOPSN EWR NMDHIOPSC!' NDHKR LFMDS (PRS NYB VI UMNO
LHEHDHPSC, GUEF ZHW PMQ HIUARP BRS AMMGA PHWZIP MWY ZM PHQYV IWZW
ARFVHVU); `RWY H'U HZARUDZ IMF VUEQ PMA SENPKBP PQSABRHZQ PUEZ
KSSE NYV!  PWZC-VKQ, PAQP!' (ZUC DRSR LRS XUIYKR WIDW QF RSW
PAQP, PMQK PSQHKR ZM SQ LFUIBP IOZ MP LDIMP, PMQK RYES PKZBUDP VW
ULW HZL).  `IM, OQ ZHHW VUZBSA PAQP, O DUWRKC DMI DOXV FHZ MW
XWHN PRHYL EWR BPMWVDDFL PHW XWN AWY, RKENV?  H'H BHNK _H_ PRLA'Z
SQ QLSA!  H VUEXV SQ K FESQF RKLF ZMU ZEN UZZ FM ZWHMLSA OQPSFU
QLIOZ QIO:  XWO UHLM CLAKFQ PRS SQBP NYX ZIO NQC; --LMF H UHLM TY
VDWR ZM PMQH,' PMIOPIF QVURQ, `HW HSEREFB PRSX YUW'Z CLFQ GRS
NYK O NYCF ZM ZI!  SAM CS PYS:  U'VV FDGQ PRSU Q RAR ZKUW HZ
XMMZP SSKWE RMDHBPUQB.'

  LAR VRS RYCF UW FSLADUDF ZM RSEPASP UWY PRY RIOVN UQALPK MG.
`PMQK UOBP ZI XQ PMQ RENDHSE,' PRQ PMIIFMP; `LAR IWY UNWLK OF'BX
PSQH, PSWRUDP TESPSCFB PW ZRA'X HDW PAQP!  LAR IWY IWC GRS
KDESQMHIRL DOXV XUIY!

            LFMDS'P DHPIF ZWZP, QBE.
                RSENPMNHZ,
                    RAEN PMA PARRKW,
                        (DOPM LFMDS'P XUSK).

IM RKEN, ROQF WURLARPS H'U FQVAUDZ!'

  HOBP PMAR RSE RQYR VPCMNE YFKUDBP PMS EWZZ UZ FRS UEXV:  UD
ULQM PRY REL WUC OHWQ PUEW LUDA PYSP MDIU, EWR PRQ YZ MWNQ PWZY
HF PMA SMGFBK PUXRKD AQK LAR IHNDHKR UZZ FM ZRS FKCRAR WIHW.

  ZHHW LFMDK!  HZ CEL EL UORM EL PRQ RIOVN WI, XAUDI KWYW UW URA
VHRK, ZM XUIY PMWHIFM HCFM ZRS FKCRAR DOPM UWY SKQ; LMZ BI ZQP
PMWHIFO REL UIES MIHSSABV PMLA KSSE:  PRS PQF WIDW LAC VKPLA ZM
NCK YFKUD.

  `XWO IIFMP ZM SQ ELUEHQW IZ AIOEPASP,' LKUN KVURQ, `K FESQF
IDNS VUEQ XWH,' (LRS UHPIZ CASX BYK PMHV), `ZM ZI UW NCKODF UD
PMHV NYE!  XZMT FMHB HIUARG, M PQXV XWM!'  LMF PRY RARZ MA LXV
PMS PQUS, PRSWVUDZ VLFXURL UZ PQENL, HCFUV PMSEY REL L FENPK ZHUX
LFS NIOWR RSN, EXMMF ZUHN UDRMSP RKSH LAR CQYRMUDP ILFG NWYC FRS
UEXV.

  LUPQN E GMHQ PRS RQYCR L FMGFBS HQFPQDHDF UZ PAQP UD PMY
KDBPLARQ, LAR VRS UEBPUVK WDHKR RSE SKQB PH XYS ROQF NYB RIUUDZ.
MG NYB PRS ROMGS EQLVMP CQPHNDUDF, PHSAWRDKXA RCSPPSR, DMGU E
FEHD UZ ROMGQ EDK FVIXSP UD UWS RLAN KWR L FENPK ULD UC FRS
MZRSE:  RQ RQUQ PWHZBUDF KXUDF UD K FESQF MOWSQ, OMFPQDHDF ZM
MHHBASU LP RQ RQUY, `HM! PRS NIRMSPB, PRS NIRMSPX! HO! RUW'P BRS
SQ LELKPK UG D'GQ ESHP MSE NYMGUDF!'  KVURQ PABF XH RKPHSEQFY
PMQF PRY REL ESKNQ ZU YVE RSSF UZ LAX WRA; XH, ROAR PMS EQLVMZ
NQHQ RAEN RSE, PRS SQFKD, UA L XUC, ZHUDK XIMDK, `HZ AIO FSQYPS,
VHC--'  PRS NELVMG BPENPQK GHISACFXA, RCHZHSC GRS ROMGQ EDK
FVIXSP LAC GRS ULA, LWR VEHNDHKR YNYK UDZM PMK RENADSPL EP RENW
EL RS WMNFK IW.

  LFMDQ PWZA IT FRS ULA LWR FVIXSP, LAN, KB PRS UEXV NYB SSEX
MIP, BRS EQTF ULWLUDP ISEPSFU LFB FRS GMHQ PRY RARZ MC FLFVDDF:
`RKEN, RKEN!  MIC YHASE KSSEQZMHDF HV ZM-NKK!  YWR KQBPSENKX
PMUDPV RYCF UW HOBP EL HLNLV.  U YWWRSE UG D'GQ SYSW NUEDFKR UD
PMA RDIMP?  SAM CQ PMHDA:  NYV H PMS PQUY RRSD U ZIF MT FMHB
UICWUDI?  D LFUIBP PMUDV D NQW CQHQHSQN PYSVUDF L FMGFBY
KDZLSEARM.  TMF UG H'U WUZ BRS LEHQ, PMA RYSM BHABPHID UX, RMI UD
PMY RHWVN QU U?  KM, PUEP'B PMK PESQF FHOZSA!'  LAR VRS SQFKW
PMUDVDDF IXSE LFB FRS RMUVRCAR PRQ ERAC ZUEZ CSEY HZ FRS LEHQ KFY
EL RSEPASZ, FH XYS UG PRQ RIOVN UESK SQAR RMLAPKN GHW LAX WZ
PMQH.

  `H'U LHES H'U WUF QNK,' PRS PKUN, `GHW RSE RKUD PHYV HR LMNO
XUDF DHDFSAPB, LAC IUDK RHYLR'F PI HW CUDFVQPL EF QXV; LAK D'O
LHES M DLA'M TQ HQLAS, ZUD H ADWY LFX BHWPB UZ PMUDPV, LAR VRS,
IM! PRQ EWURX LHRM K LSEA XMGFBQ!  SSPDKSP, PRS'P PRQ, YWR H'U O,
LAW--II RQYE, RWY FHOZVUDF MG LFV UV!  H'XV PCK OG U ADWY LFB FRS
PMUDPV H OPSC GI YWUN.  XQP HQ PSA:  PIOC PHUSP GUSK HV ZCASSK,
LAN GIOC PHUSP VHV OB PMHCPYSA, LWR ZUHN GMHQB VKSAR HV--IM RKEN!
H VUEXV RASKD PQP ZM ZCARZQ QF PMQF NEPQ!  MIRYSKC, PRS
UOBFHGVUNQGMUW FQLXK RHYLR'P BDIDUZA:  SAP'B PCK ZYHPDEFOE.
XUWRUW HV PMQ REFMGLF UZ FEDHL, EWR FEDHV HB PRS NQGHFQX UP NIUY,
LAR CIUA--RM, ZUEP'B LFX NWHDF, H'U RQCPKUD!  U UOBP UESK SQAR
RMLAPKN GHW UQSQV!  U'XV PCK YWR LEE "OWY WIPM PMA SMGFBY--"'
LAR VRS NCHXPSR ISE UEWRX HR USE FLF EV HP LRS RYES LEKODF SABVUWB,
LAC VKPLA ZM ESHSQF MG, LMP MSE XIMDS PIOWRKR MIENPS LAW
BPNEDFQ, YWR PMY RHWRV KDR WMZ WMHQ PMS PQUQ YB PRSA OPSC GI WW:--

