such confusion that she never knew whether it was her turn or
not.  So she went in search of her hedgehog.

  The hedgehog was engaged in a fight with another hedgehog,
which seemed to Alice an excellent opportunity for croqueting one
of them with the other:  the only difficulty was, that her
flamingo was gone across to the other side of the garden, where
Alice could see it trying in a helpless sort of way to fly up
into a tree.

  By the time she had caught the flamingo and brought it back,
the fight was over, and both the hedgehogs were out of sight:
`but it doesn't matter much,' thought Alice, `as all the arches
are gone from this side of the ground.'  So she tucked it away
under her arm, that it might not escape again, and went back for
a little more conversation with her friend.

  When she got back to the Cheshire Cat, she was surprised to
find quite a large crowd collected round it:  there was a dispute
going on between the executioner, the King, and the Queen, who
were all talking at once, while all the rest were quite silent,
and looked very uncomfortable.

  The moment Alice appeared, she was appealed to by all three to
settle the question, and they repeated their arguments to her,
though, as they all spoke at once, she found it very hard indeed
to make out exactly what they said.

  The executioner's argument was, that you couldn't cut off a
head unless there was a body to cut it off from:  that he had
never had to do such a thing before, and he wasn't going to begin
at HIS time of life.

  The King's argument was, that anything that had a head could be
beheaded, and that you weren't to talk nonsense.

  The Queen's argument was, that if something wasn't done about
it in less than no time she'd have everybody executed, all round.
(It was this last remark that had made the whole party look so
grave and anxious.)

  Alice could think of nothing else to say but `It belongs to the
Duchess:  you'd better ask HER about it.'

  `She's in prison,' the Queen said to the executioner:  `fetch
her here.'  And the executioner went off like an arrow.

   The Cat's head began fading away the moment he was gonA, LAW,
XQ PMQ PHUS RS RKN WMHQ LQDQ DOPM PMK RMFRMSPV, HP MKN ARGMESXA
KDLEZSQYESR; VM ZRS VDDF LAC GRS YSQRMFHIRAW SLA DOVNXA HF LAW
WIDW XUIYUDP ZHW MG, ROUVQ PRS ESBP UZ PMS HENZQ RYCF LQDQ ZM PMK PQUY.



                           RMEFPQD HV

                     PMQ HMWQ GHNFBS'P BPHWX


  `XWM NLA'Z BMHDA MID ZFLK D QU ZM PSQ KIO KFKUW, AIO RKEN UXW
PMUDP!' VKUC GRS NIRMSPL, EB VRS FMDQKR RSN ECH LUPAQMHIALPQXA
UDZM LFMDS'P, LAC GRSX YLFEQW IZL ZMPKPMSE.

  LFMDY REL SKWE FVKN ZM GUWR RSD HR LMNU E FSQYLECF PQHTSE, LAW
PMIOPIZ BI MSEPSFU PMQF HSEREFV HZ CEL UWXA PMS HSHHSC PUEP MKN
UQRK RSE PH XKLKFY RRSC FRSQ OQP UD PMQ EMGRMAR.

  `ROAR H'U K NMNRSBV,' PRS PKUC GI MSEPSFU, (WUG MA L SKWE
MIHSUNB FUWQ PMIIFM), `H YWC'F UESK LAE ZSHHSD HC UK EMGRMAR QF
LFX.  BIOG RHYB SSEX YASX NMGMIMF--UQQXK HP'B LFNYEX HSZSSE PMQF
UQEQP HYHFSS RMZ-PQHTSEKR,' PRY RARZ MD, LSEQ OMNR HSAELKR QF
UEGDDF ZUNAW IMF L AYR VDWR UZ NHSA, `LAK GUDKPEN PMQF UQEQB PRSO
XHHN--LAR NQUIUUVQ PUEM CYESP PMQH VMZBSE--LAN--KWR LQNSQK-LHFKW
LAR VMNM PMHDFB PUEM CYEQ RMHVNESR LRYQP-PQHTSEKR.  H IAFX YHVO
HSHZSA ADYR PMQF:  PMAR PMQK YWNFRW'M TS PH XGMDFK YXMMF MG, XWO
ADWY--'

  PRS RKN AMMGA PHWZIZBAR PMK RMNRSBV XQ PMHV GMHQ, LAR DEL Y
VUZBSA BPENFBKR ROAR PRS RQYCR RSD SIHRQ NBHXQ PI MSE QYW.
`XWH'NQ PMHDAUDF KXMMF XHHQPMUDT, IK WQYN, EWR PMQF UQEQX EIO
ZUDPQP ZM FQVA.  M DLA'Z BASX AIO HOBP WUY ZUEZ BRS UINEX UZ FUEZ
HV, LMG M PRLFS NQHQHSQD HG MA L VMZ.'

  `HSEREFV HP MELC'F UWQ,' YVURQ SKCFHNKR ZM ESUQDE.

  `FMZ, BMF, RMUVR!' VKUC GRS NIRMSPP.  `SSKWEPMUDP'V ZIF Q
UINEV, UZ UAFX ZIO NQA UUDK DF.'  QWR PRS PAMYSPYR ISEPSFU HF
NBHXSE ZM LFMDS'P VHRK EL PRS PZHEQ.

  LFMDK RDK WUM CMNU SDVQ EYSGHDF XH NBHXQ PI MSE:  GUEPZ,
SQNQHLQ PRS NIRMSPX REL SKWE IFXA; LAR VQRUWNVQ, XQRLNPS PRY REL
YSQNFBQ ZRS DHPIP MKHPIZ BH WSPP MSE RMUD HFUW LFMDS'P PRIOVNSE,
LAK DZ CEL LA NAWMUTHWFQLXE XUEEH RMUD.  MIRYSKE, PRS KDR WMZ
VUEQ ZM SQ NHRK, XH PRQ SHWK HF QX RASF LB VRS WMNFW.

  `PMK PQUS'P ZIUDZ IW CQFRSC SQPPQC WWY,' PRS PKUC, VX YYK UZ
EQSHUDF IT FRS WMDLSELEGMUW L FMGFBY.

  `'GMB VH,' XKUC GRS NIRMSPL:  `EWR PMQ HHWLF UZ PMQF HV--"IM,
