
  `Somebody said,' Alice whispered, `that it's done by everybody
minding their own business!'

  `Ah, well!  It means much the same thing,' said the Duchess,
digging her sharp little chin into Alice's shoulder as she added,
`and the moral of THAT is--"Take care of the sense, and the
sounds will take care of themselves."'

  `How fond she is of finding morals in things!' Alice thought to
herself.

  `I dare say you're wondering why I don't put my arm round your
waist,' the Duchess said after a pause:  `the reason is, that I'm
doubtful about the temper of your flamingo.  Shall I try the
experiment?'

  `HE might bite,' Alice cautiously replied, not feeling at all
anxious to have the experiment tried.

  `Very true,' said the Duchess:  `flamingoes and mustard both
bite.  And the moral of that is--"Birds of a feather flock
together."'

  `Only mustard isn't a bird,' Alice remarked.

  `Right, as usual,' said the Duchess:  `what a clear way you
have of putting things!'

  `It's a mineral, I THINK,' said Alice.

  `Of course it is,' said the Duchess, who seemed ready to agree
to everything that Alice said; `there's a large mustard-mine near
here.  And the moral of that is--"The more there is of mine, the
less there is of yours."'

  `Oh, I know!' exclaimed Alice, who had not attended to this
last remark, `it's a vegetable.  It doesn't look like one, but it
is.'

  `I quite agree with you,' said the Duchess; `and the moral of
that is--"Be what you would seem to be"--or if you'd like it put
more simply--"Never imagine yourself not to be otherwise than
what it might appear to others that what you were or might have
been was not otherwise than what you had been would have appeared
to them to be otherwise."'

  `I think I should understand that better,' Alice said very
politely, `if I had it written down:  but I can't quite follow it
as you say it.'

  `That's nothing to what I could say if I chose,' the Duchess
replied, in a pleased tone.

  `Pray don't trouble yourself to say it any longer than that,'
said Alice.

  `Oh, don't talk about trouble!' said the Duchess.  `I make you
a present of everything I've said as yet.'

  `A cheap sort of present!' thought Alice.  `I'm glad they don't
give birthday presents like that!'  But she did not venture to
say it out loud.

  `Thinking again?' the Duchess asked, with another dig of her
sharp little chin.

  `I've a right to think,' said Alice sharply, for she was
beginning to feel a little worried.

  `Just about as much right,' said the Duchess, `as pigs have to
fly; and the m--'

  But here, to Alice's great surprise, the Duchess's voice died
away, even in the middle of her favourite word `moral,' and the
arm that was linked into hers began to tremble.  Alice looked up,
and there stood the Queen in front of them, with her arms folded,
frowning like a thunderstorm.

  `A fine day, your Majesty!' the Duchess began in a low, weak
voice.

  `Now, I give you fair warning,' shouted the Queen, stamping on
the ground as she spoke; `either you or your head must be off,
and that in about half no time!  Take your choice!'

  The Duchess took her choice, and was gone in a moment.

  `Let's go on with the game,' the Queen said to Alice; and Alice
was too much frightened to say a word, but slowly followed her
back to the croquet-ground.

  The other guests had taken advantage of the Queen's absence,
and were resting in the shade:  however, the moment they saw her,
they hurried back to the game, the Queen merely remarking that a
moment's delay would cost them their lives.

  All the time they were playing the Queen never left off
quarrelling with the other players, and shouting `Off with his
head!' or `Off with her head!'  Those whom she sentenced were
taken into custody by the soldiers, who of course had to leave
off being arches to do this, so that by the end of half an hour
or so there were no arches left, and all the players, except the
King, the Queen, and Alice, were in custody and under sentence of
execution.

  Then the Queen left off, quite out of breath, and said to
Alice, `Have you seen the Mock Turtle yet?'

  `No,' said Alice.  `I don't even know what a Mock Turtle is.'

  `It's the thing Mock Turtle Soup is made from,' said the Queen.

  `I never saw one, or heard of one,' said Alice.

  `Come on, then,' said the Queen, `and he shall tell you his
history,'

  As they walked off together, Alice heard the King say in a low
voice, to the company generally, `You are all pardoned.'  `Come,
THAT'S a good thing!' she said to herself, for she had felt quite
unhappy at the number of executions the Queen had ordered.

  They very soon came upon a Gryphon, lying fast asleep in the
sun.  (IF you don't know what a Gryphon is, look at the picture.)
`Up, lazy thing!' said the Queen, `and take this young lady to
see the Mock Turtle, and to hear his history.  I must go back and
see after some executions I have ordered'; and she walked off,
leaving Alice alone with the Gryphon.  Alice did not quite like
the look of the creature, but on the whole she thought it would
be quite as safe to stay with it as to go after that savage
Queen:  so she waited.

  The Gryphon sat up and rubbed its eyes:  then it watched the
Queen till she was out of sight:  then it chuckled.  `What fun!'
said the Gryphon, half to itself, half to Alice.

  `What IS the fun?' said Alice.

  `Why, SHE,' said the Gryphon.  `It's all her fancy, that:  they
never executes nobody, you know.  Come on!'

  `Everybody says "come on!" here,' thought Alice, as she went
slowly after it:  `I never was so ordered about in all my life,
never!'

  They had not gone far before they saw the Mock Turtle in the
distance, sitting sad and lonely on a little ledge of rock, and,
as they came nearer, Alice could hear him sighing as if his heart
would break.  She pitied him deeply.  `What is his sorrow?' she
asked the Gryphon, and the Gryphon answered, very nearly in the
same words as before, `It's all his fancy, that:  he hasn't got
no sorrow, you know.  Come on!'

  So they went up to the Mock Turtle, who looked at them with
large eyes full of tears, but said nothing.

  `This here young lady,' said the Gryphon, `she wants for to
know your history, she do.'

  `I'll tell it her,' said the Mock Turtle in a deep, hollow
tone:  `sit down, both of you, and don't speak a word till I've
finished.'

  So they sat down, and nobody spoke for some minutes.  Alice
thought to herself, `I don't see how he can EVEN finish, if he
doesn't begin.'  But she waited patiently.

  `Once,' said the Mock Turtle at last, with a deep sigh, `I was
a real Turtle.'

  These words were followed by a very long silence, broken only
by an occasional exclamation of `Hjckrrh!' from the Gryphon, and
the constant heavy sobbing of the Mock Turtle.  Alice was very
nearly getting up and saying, `Thank you, sir, for your
interesting story,' but she could not help thinking there MUST be
more to come, so she sat still and said nothing.

  `When we were little,' the Mock Turtle went on at last, more
calmly, thIOPI BPUVX BMXVMDF L FMGFBA RWY LAC GRSW, `DY RARZ BW
BRMIUX UD PMS PQY.  PMQ HELPQC DEL LA UXC GHNFBY--RA HPSC GM WLFX
MHC MHWZMHVY--'

  `ROK WDK XWM NLFS UHU ZMCPIHPS, UG RS NYLR'Z MRA?' LFMDQ YVEKR.

  `RY NQXVKR MHC MHWZMHVQ SQRLNPS RS FQIFMP HL,' LEDK PMQ HMWY
FMCPSA LAPDUVE:  `WQYXVX ZIO ENK SSEK WNFX!'

  `XWO IIFMP ZM SQ ELUEHQW IZ AIOEPASZ LHW ELVDDF LHRM E LHUFSY
AMSPGMUW,' KNRKC GRS PDEZMIA; LWR PMAR PMQK XMPM LEP BUVARF QWR
XUIYKR QF ZHHW LFMDY, RMI PABF ESKNQ ZH XUDV DCFM ZRS QYCPU.  EZ
FLBP PMK PWEHRUW LEDK ZM PMQ HMWQ GHNFBK, `RDHSK UW, UXN GASXUY!
WIC'F SQ LFV NYK QLIOG MF!' QWR RS RYCF UW UD PMSPY RHWRV:

  `KQX, RY RARZ BH XRMWZV UC FRS PSQ, FMIIFO EIO UQAW'M TASHKSK
MG--'

  `U DKSSE LEDK D KDKC'F!' UDPQWSHFPQN KVURQ.

  `XWI NDK,' LEDK PMQ HMWQ GHNFBY.

  `MIVN XWHN ZMDFHA!' KNRKC GRS PDEZMIC, LAPHWQ YVURQ WMNFR VHSYE
KFKUC.  FRS UIDQ FMCPSA RYCF UW.

  `RY UEC GRS SQBP UZ KRMNQFHIRL--UD ULQM, RY RYCF ZM BRMIUX
KSSEK WYK--'

  `D'GQ SYSC FU Y NKE-XRMWZB, FWZ,' LEDK LFMDQ; `KIO RAKRC'F SQ
XH HEION KL EXV PMQF.'

  `DOPM YSPCEL?' ELEQC GRS UIDQ FMCPSA L FMGFBQ YWLHIHLXA.

  `KQB,' VKUN KVURQ, `RY SAENRAN GESWNU EWR UOVHW.'

  `LAR DELMHDF?' LEDK PMQ HMWQ GHNFBY.

  `RQCPKUAFA WMZ!' LEDK LFMDK HWRDIALCFXA.

  `EU! PMAR XWHNX RELC'F E NQYXVK ZWZR VRMWZX,' BKUC GRS UIDQ
FMCPSA UD Q FUWY HZ PESQF ESVUAP.  `WUN YZ MHNB PRSE OKN QF PMY
ARW IZ FRS VMXV, "PNARRM, UOVHN, QWR NYPRUDP--KBZNE."'

  `XWM NIOVNC'F UESK NYCFKR MG UORM,' LEDK LFMDA; `SDGUDF KZ BRS
XMZBIU UZ PMS PQY.'

  `M DIOVNC'F LUZUCR ZM SAEND UP.' BKUC GRS UIDQ FMCPSA DOPM Y
VHPI.  `H IAFQ ZWZQ GRS ESFIFLC NIOEPY.'

  `ROQF NYB PUEG?' MCAOHESN KVURQ.

  `ESASUDF KWR DCMGMHDF, UZ WMHNPS, ZM SQIDW DMGM,' PRS UIDQ
FMCPSA ESFSHKN; `KWR PMAR PMK RUGPAESCF SCLARMSP UZ ENMGMUQPMD--
QUVMGMUW, KDBPNEQMHIA, NFVUGMDQFHIA, LWR RKDHVHUW.'

  `U DKSSE RSENW IU "NFVUGMDQFHIA,"' LVURQ SKCFHNKR ZM LEX.  `YUEZ
HV MG?'

  PMK PWEHRUW VUZFKR HF XMPM MGP HYNV HR LHNHEHVY.  `RUEF!  CKSSE
RSENW IU NFVUGKODF!' MG YSNBKUHQW.  `KIO ADWY ROQF ZM SQLNGMZA
HV, H VHFZHPS?'

  `KQB,' VKUN KVURQ WIMLFZNFXA:  `MG HQLAB--PI--UYEQ--YWAPMUDZ--
HEQPGMSE.'

  `RYXV, PMAR,' PMK PWEHRUW RYCF UW, `UG XWI NUW'G QWUY ZUEZ BW
IFVUZA HV, XWN LES E LHUFSQPUW.'

  LFMDK RDK WUF ZYSS AWNIONEPKC GU YVE LAQ OHWQ AHABPHIRL QLIOZ
MG, XH PRQ PHNRAC GM ZRS UIDQ FMCPSA, LAR VKUR `DUEP QXBS RKN XWO
ZM SAENW?'

  `RYXV, PMSEY REL OQBPSEQ,' ZRS UIDQ FMCPSA ESFSHKR, NIOCFUDZ
UZZ FRS LHVMQRPB UW MHL PFLZSSEB, `--HEXPQWE, LADMARF QWR UIRKCW,
DOPM PSYUPDEFOE:  PMAR RCYNVUDF--PMK RNENXUDT-IELPQC DEL LA UXW
WMDFSE-YSB, FUEF MPSC GM WIUY HWNQ Y RYQE:  RS FQIFMP HL
RCYNVUDF, BPESMQMHDF, LAN GKUCFUDI DW NIHXB.'

  `ROQF NYB PUEF BDVS?' PKUN KVURQ.

  `RYXV, M DLA'P BMID OZ QIO OQPSFU,' PMQ HMWQ GHNFBS PKUK:  `D'O
ZMH XGMZL.  LAC GRS PDEZMIW LKSSE SAENCF MG.'

  `UERW'Z BHUS,' PKUC GRS PDEZMID:  `U RYCF ZM PMQ RFLBVMDB
UQBPSE, PMIOPI.  RS NYL EW UVN NCQL, RS NYB.'

  `U DKSSE RYCF ZM MHC,' MRS UIDQ FMCPSA LEDK DOPM E LDIO:  `SY
FQIFMP FLIFMHDF LAK IDHAP, PMQK HLKR ZM LEX.'

  `XH RS KDR, VI MK RDK,' LEDK PMK PWEHRUW, VHPIUDI DR UHV FMCW;
LAC VMZM RESQFHNSP MHC GRSHD ULRQV HC FRSHD FERX.

  `LAR IWY UQWA MIHNL E NKK WDK XWI NU XSPXHRL?' LEDK LFMDK, HA L
MOWSQ ZM WUEDFQ PRS LHVMQRZ.

  `PQR UIOEP PMA PHDBP NKE,' XKUC GRS UIDQ FMCPSA: `DURA PMY
RABZ, LAR VW ZW.'

  `ROQF Q NHNHIHL FSLA!' YSNBKUHQN KVURQ.

  `PMQF'B PRS ESELUW PMQK'ES NQXVKR SABVUWB,' PRS PDEZMIW
ESUQDEKR:  `SQNQHLQ PRSA XSPPSA UWHI CYK ZM NKX.'

  PMHV NYB EOHPQ L AYR DKQY ZM LFMDQ, YWR PRQ PMIIFMP MG IXSE Y
VUZBSA SQZUES PRQ HKNS RSE RABZ ESUQDE.  `PMAR PMY SSASKCFI RYK
UOBP UESK SQAR E UUXDKYK?'

  `UZ WMHNPS MG NYB,' VKUC GRS UIDQ FMCPSA.

  `LAR IWY KDW KIO UQALPK UW PMQ PRYFUPM?' LFMDY RARZ MR AKFSEXA.

  `PMQF'P SWUIFU EXMMF SABVUWB,' PRS PDEZMID UCFSENHTFKR UD Y
SKWE RKDMRKC GUWQ:  `PASS USE XHHQPMUDF KXMMF PMK PQUSP WUY.'



                            RMEFPQW S

                      PMA SMXBPSE AMKNDHXVY


  PMQ HMWQ GHNFBS PDIRSW VYSFSK, YWR RCYR PMQ SQNY IZ URA UFEFHSW
QNWHBV MHP SKQP.  RA SWZEQN KF QVURQ, LAC GDHKR ZM PHQYQ, VMF ZUW
Q UUDMFY HC PYW XHLB RMIYKR MHB SIHRQ.  `LEHQ EL UG RS UEN K XMRA
UD MHB PREUYP,' BKUC GRS PDEZMIA:  LWR MG PSZ BW YHWE VUEVDDF MHO
LAR GNARMUDP IHU UD PMQ SQNE.  YF BELZ BRS UIDQ FMCPSA ESWMSKESW
MHB SIHRQ, LAR, DMGM PQYEP NHWLUDI KWYR UHV RMYSEV, RS RYCF UW
KFKUW:--

  `XWO UYK WUP MKLA SDGKR UORM NARKC PRS PSK--' (`U UESKC'F,'
LEDK LFMDQ)--`YWR HSEREFX EIO RYES RASKE SSKD UCFWHNIRQC GU Y XULBPQW--'
(LFMDQ SKPLA ZM LEK `O UWRQ FQBPKR--' LMM QRSDQKR RSEPASP UELGMXA,
LAR VKUR `WU, WKSSE') `--XH XWM NLA UESK WU DKQY ROQF K NASDIMPUNX
PMUDF K XULBPQC ENLRCUVSA HV!'

  `WU, UDRKKR,' LEDK LFMDY.  `RUEP BHWZ MU L NKWNK HV HZ?'

  `ROE,' XKUC GRS PDEZMIW, `AIO GUEPF ZHWU HCFU Y VURA LFUWP FRS
PSE-LMIES--'

  `ZCU XUDSP!' NCHKC GRS UIDQ FMCPSA.  `PSLFB, PHNFBSP, LEBUUW,
LAR VW ZC; FRSW, DRSW AIO'SK NBQYESN KXV PMK HASXA-GUPR IOZ MZ
PMY RYK--'

  `PMQF PKRANEXVQ ZYESP XHHQ GMHQ,' UDPQWSHFPQC GRS PDEZMIW.

  `--XWN LKGLARQ ZCMDY--'

  `QYRM DOPM L FMXBPSE EL E FENFCSE!' NCHKC GRS PDEZMIW.

  `UZ WMHNPS,' PMQ HMWQ GHNFBS PKUN:  `KKGLARQ ZCMDS, PQP ZM
FECPRAEP--'

  `--RMLAPK XULBPQEP, LAR CQPHDK HR LQUY HCRSE,' WMCFUDHAC GRS
PDEZMIW.

  `PMAR, XWI AWUC,' ZRS UIDQ FMCPSA RYCF UW, `XWM FREWY PMY--'

  `PMA SMXBPSEB!' VMIMFKR PMK PWEHRUW, DOPM Q LIOWR UDZM PMQ YHD.

  `--EL ULW HMF ZM PSY LX EIO NQW--'

  `XRHU LUPQC PRSH!' BNCQYHQC GRS PDEZMIW.

  `FMCW E LIUSELENFG MC FRS PSQ!' NDHKR PMQ HMWQ GHNFBY,
NQHSDHDF DOVNXA QLIOZ.

  `LQDQ ZM FLWR KFKUA, LWR PMQF'L EXV PMA PHDBP GUFIES,' LEDK PMY
UIDQ FMCPSA, LHWVARXA RCHZGHDF MHB SIHRQ; LAC GRS ZCM WESQFHNSP,
ROI MKN SQAR HOHTUDF KXMMF VUEQ UQC GMHDFL EXV PMHV GMHQ, LEZ
WIDW KFKUD LSEE XKNXA LAC KOHQPXA, LAN VWZEQN KF QVURQ.

