  `Are they in the prisoner's handwriting?' asked another of
they jurymen.

  `No, they're not,' said the White Rabbit, `and that's the
queerest thing about it.'  (The jury all looked puzzled.)

  `He must have imitated somebody else's hand,' said the King.
(The jury all brightened up again.)

  `Please your Majesty,' said the Knave, `I didn't write it, and
they can't prove I did:  there's no name signed at the end.'

  `If you didn't sign it,' said the King, `that only makes the
matter worse.  You MUST have meant some mischief, or else you'd
have signed your name like an honest man.'

  There was a general clapping of hands at this:  it was the
first really clever thing the King had said that day.

  `That PROVES his guilt,' said the Queen.

  `It proves nothing of the sort!' said Alice.  `Why, you don't
even know what they're about!'

  `Read them,' said the King.

  The White Rabbit put on his spectacles.  `Where shall I begin,
please your Majesty?' he asked.

  `Begin at the beginning,' the King said gravely, `and go on
till you come to the end:  then stop.'

  These were the verses the White Rabbit read:--

        `They told me you had been to her,
          And mentioned me to him:
        She gave me a good character,
          But said I could not swim.

        He sent them word I had not gone
          (We know it to be true):
        If she should push the matter on,
          What would become of you?

        I gave her one, they gave him two,
          You gave us three or more;
        They all returned from him to you,
          Though they were mine before.

        If I or she should chance to be
          Involved in this affair,
        He trusts to you to set them free,
          Exactly as we were.

        My notion was that you had been
          (Before she had this fit)
        An obstacle that came between
          Him, and ourselves, and it.

        Don't let him know she liked them best,
          For this must ever be
        A secret, kept from all the rest,
          Between yourself and me.'

  `That's the most important piece of evidence we've heard yet,'
said the King, rubbing his hands; `so now let the jury--'

  `If any one of them can explain it,' said Alice, (she had
grown so large in the last few minutes that she wasn't a bit
afraid of interrupting him,) `I'll give him sixpence.  _I_ don't
believe there's an atom of meaning in it.'

  The jury all wrote down on their slates, `SHE doesn't believe
there's an atom of meaning in it,' but none of them attempted to
explain the paper.

  `If there's no meaning in it,' said the King, `that saves a
world of trouble, you know, as we needn't try to find any.  And
yet I don't know,' he went on, spreading out the verses on his
knee, and looking at them with one eye; `I seem to see some
meaning in them, after all.  "--SAID I COULD NOT SWIM--" you
can't swim, can you?' he added, turning to the Knave.

  The Knave shook his head sadly.  `Do I look like it?' he said.
(Which he certainly did NOT, being made entirely of cardboard.)

  `All right, so far,' said the King, and he went on muttering
over the verses to himself:  `"WE KNOW IT TO BE TRUE--" that's
the jury, of course-- "I GAVE HER ONE, THEY GAVE HIM TWO--" why,
that must be what he did with the tarts, you know--'

  `But, it goes on "THEY ALL RETURNED FROM HIM TO YOU,"' said
Alice.

  `Why, there they are!' said the King triumphantly, pointing to
the tarts on the table.  `Nothing can be clearer than THAT.
Then again--"BEFORE SHE HAD THIS FIT--"  you never had fits, my
dear, I think?' he said to the Queen.

  `Never!' said the Queen furiously, throwing an inkstand at the
Lizard as she spoke.  (The unfortunate little Bill had left off
writing on his slate with one finger, as he found it made no
mark; but he now hastily began again, using the ink, that was
trickling down his face, as long as it lasted.)

  `Then the words don't FIT you,' said the King, looking round
the court with a smile.  There was a dead silence.

  `It's a pun!' the King added in an offended tone, and
everybody laughed, `Let the jury consider their verdict,' the
King said, for about the twentieth time that day.

  `No, no!' said the Queen.  `Sentence first--verdict afterwards.'

  `Stuff and nonsense!' said Alice loudly.  `The idea of having
the sentence first!'

  `Hold your tongue!' said the Queen, turning purple.

  `I won't!' said Alice.

  `Off with her head!' the Queen shouted at the top of her voice.
Nobody moved.

  `Who cares for you?' said Alice, (she had grown to her full
size by this time.)  `You're nothing but a pack of cards!'

  At this the whole pack rose up into the air, and came flying
down upon her:  she gave a little scream, half of fright and half
of anger, and tried to beat them off, and found herself lying on
the bank, with her head in the lap of her sister, who was gently
brushing away some dead leaves that had fluttered down from the
trees upon her face.

  `Wake up, Alice dear!' said her sister; `Why, what a long
sleep you've had!'

  `Oh, I've had such a curious dream!' said Alice, and she told
her sister, as well as she could remember them, all these strange
Adventures of hers that you have just been reading about; and
when she had finished, her sister kissed her, and said, `It WAS a
curious dream, dear, certainly:  but now run in to your tea; it's
getting late.'  So Alice got up and ran off, thinking while she
ran, as well she might, what a wonderful dream it had been.

  But her sister sat still just as she left her, leaning her
head on her hand, watching the setting sun, and thinking of
little Alice and all her wonderful Adventures, till she too began
dreaming after a fashion, and this was her dream:--

  First, she dreamed of little Alice herself, and once again the
tiny hands were clasped upon her knee, and the bright eager eyes
were looking up into hers--she could hear the very tones of her
voice, and see that queer little toss of her head to keep back
the wandering hair that WOULD always get into her eyes--and
still as she listened, or seemed to listen, the whole place
around her became alive the strange creatures of her little
sister's dream.

  The long grass rustled at her feet as the White Rabbit hurried
by--the frightened Mouse splashed his way through the
neighbouring pool--she could hear the rattle of the teacups as
the March Hare and his friends shared their never-ending meal,
and the shrill voice of the Queen ordering off her unfortunate
guests to execution--once more the pig-baby was sneezing on the
Duchess's knee, while plates and dishes crashed around it--once
more the shriek of the Gryphon, the squeaking of the Lizard's
slate-pencil, and the choking of the suppressed guinea-pigs,
filled the air, mixed up with the distant sobs of the miserable
Mock Turtle.

  So she sat on, with closed eyes, and half believed herself in
Wonderland, though she knew she had but to open them again, and
all would change to dull reality--the grass would be only
rustling in the wind, and the pool rippling to the waving of the
reeds--the rattling teacups would change to tinkling sheep-
bells, and the Queen's shrill cries to the voice of the shepherd
boy--and the sneeze of the baby, the shriek of the Gryphon, and
all thy other queer noises, would change (she knew) to the
confused clamour of the busy farm-yard--while the lowing of the
cattle in the distance would take the place of the Mock Turtle's
heavy sobs.

  Lastly, she pictured to herself how this same little sister of
hers would, in the after-time, be herself a grown woman; and how
she would keep, through all her riper years, the simple and
loving heart of her childhood:  and how she would gather about
her other little children, and make THEIR eyes bright and eager
with many a strange tale, perhaps even with the dream of
Wonderland of long ago:  and how she would feel with all their
simple sorrows, and find a pleasure in all their simple joys,
remembering her own child-life, and the happy summer days.

                             THE END
	AS YOU LIKE IT


	DRAMATIS PERSONAE


DUKE SENIOR	living in banishment.

DUKE FREDERICK	his brother, an usurper of his dominions.


AMIENS	|
	|  lords attending on the banished duke.
JAQUES	|


LE BEAU	a courtier attending upon Frederick.

CHARLES	wrestler to Frederick.


OLIVER		|
		|
JAQUES (JAQUES DE BOYS:)  	|  sons of Sir Rowland de Boys.
		|
ORLANDO		|


ADAM	|
	|  servants to Oliver.
DENNIS	|


TOUCHSTONE	a clown.

SIR OLIVER MARTEXT	a vicar.


CORIN	|
	|  shepherds.
SILVIUS	|


WILLIAM	a country fellow in love with Audrey.

	A person representing HYMEN. (HYMEN:)

ROSALIND	daughter to the banished duke.

CELIA	daughter to Frederick.

PHEBE	a shepherdess.

AUDREY	a country wench.

	Lords, pages, and attendants, &c.
	(Forester:)
	(A Lord:)
	(First Lord:)
	(Second Lord:)
	(First Page:)
	(Second Page:)


SCENE	Oliver's house; Duke Frederick's court; and the
	Forest of Arden.




	AS YOU LIKE IT


ACT I



SCENE I	Orchard of Oliver's house.


	[Enter ORLANDO and ADAM]

ORLANDO	As I remember, Adam, it was upon this fashion
	bequeathed me by will but poor a thousand crowns,
	and, as thou sayest, charged my brother, on his
	blessing, to breed me well: and there begins my
	sadness. My brother Jaques he keeps at school, and
	report speaks goldenly of his profit: for my part,
	he keeps me rustically at home, or, to speak more
	properly, stays me here at home unkept; for call you
	that keeping for a gentleman of my birth, that
	differs not from the stalling of an ox? His horses
	are bred better; for, besides that they are fair
	with their feeding, they are taught their manage,
	and to that end riders dearly hired: but I, his
	brother, gain nothing under him but growth; for the
	which his animals on his dunghills are as much
	bound to him as I. Besides this nothing that he so
	plentifully gives me, the something that nature gave
	me his countenance seems to take from me: he lets
	me feed with his hinds, bars me the place of a
	brother, and, as much as in him lies, mines my
	gentility with my education. This is it, Adam, that
	grieves me; and the spirit of my father, which I
	think is within mQ, SKPUDB PI UMFUDK YFKUDBP PMHV
	PSDSMGINK: H DOXV WU XUDFSE ARNIES MG, PMIOPI KQG M
	ADWY WU DOPS ESHQWK MIC ZU YXIDK MG.

KNQU	XWWRSE WMHQB HQ OELPQW, EIOC SWHPMSE.

HWFLWRI	ZU YFECP, KNQU, LAC GMIH LUEBF RSEN MIR OY RUVX
	PRYEQ HA HZ.

	[ARPQW HVUSKW]

UXDGSE	WUR, XHD! ROQF UQEQ XWO MSEY?

HWFLWRU	WMZMHDF: U KU CMZ FQIFMP ZM UQEQ LAQ ZMHDF.

UXDGSE	ROQF UQW EIO PMAR, VHW?

HWFLWRI	UENWE, VHD, H QU RSSFUDZ KIO ZM UQC PUEZ CMHRM ZIW
	UQRK, E FWZN HWDHWPMQ XWHPMSE UZ XWHNX, RMGM HNVARSPB.

UXDGSE	UQWSE, XHD, SQ SQZBSE QHFSWXKR, LAC VA RLNPIF QROUVY.

HWFLWRH	XUEXV D VYSZ EIOE RIZL EWR QYP MHLEV DOPM PMQH?
	ROQF HEIWDILF ZHCPHIR UKLK H PHARZ, BUEG M PRIOVN
	WMHQ ZM LHRM HSANWE?

UXDGSE	ADWY XWO NRSES XWHN ENS, PHD?

HWFLWRW	Z, VHD, SSEX YASS; USEK HW AIOW HCNUECR.

UXDGSE	ADWY XWM LAPHWY RMIH, BHD?

HWFLWRU	YQ, XQPPQC PUER UHU U KC TAPHWQ EWURX HQ. D VWUY
	XWN LES OQ ASRKBP SCMZRSN; EWR, UD PMK PARFBY
	WMWRMGHIW UT LXUIW, XWH LMINFR VI YWUC OQ. PRS
	WMHNPQXE UZ ALGMUWL EXVWYX EIO OQ SQZBSE, UD PMQF
	XWN LES PMA PHDBP-XMCW; LMZ BRS LEHQ PCKNMGHIW
	FQEQL RMZ YNYK OQ LXWZR, DSEQ PRSES ZCARZQ SCMZRSEP
	SQZCOVF MV: H UESK EL UORM UZ OQ ULPMSE UD HQ EL
	XWN; LXLKHG, M WMAUSPX, EIOC NIUUDT VAPHWQ HK HB
	RAENSE ZM MHP EKSSEARRQ.

UXDGSE	ROQF, XMX!

HWFLWRM	WIUQ, RIUY, SVNSE SCMZRSW, EIO ENQ PWZ XWNAI DC FMHB.

UXDGSE	DOBF PMIO FLE OLARV UW HQ, GDXVKUW?

HWFLWRI	H QU WU GDXVKUD; U QU PMQ KIODFSPP BUW UZ VHW
	WHNXLAW VQ SWXP; RY REL OQ ULPMSE, LAR IK HB PREMDY
	K LUVFLUD PMQF LEEX LHRM L UQFRSC SKPMZ GDXVKURL.
	RYCP PMIO WUM CQ XWHPMSE, O DIOVN WUZ BYEQ PMHP RLAW
	PNIU PMQ ZREUYZ BUVB FMHX HPMSE UER GNFSAW IMF PMX
	ZMDFHA ZUE PYKUDP VM: ZMIO MELP CKUSAW IC FOEPSFU.

KNQU	XRYSM CELPQEP, SQ FEGMARF: ZHW XWHN ULPMSE'B
	ESHQCTNEWNQ, SQ YF QWBHWW.

UXDGSE	SAM CK PI, H LEX.

HWFLWRI	H DOXV WUZ, BUVV U FSQYPS: XWH LUEXV RSEN HQ. OQ
	ULPMSE RMENPKW KIO UD MHX RUVB FI ZDGQ HK PWZW
	KRMNQFHIW: AIO UESK PCKURAC IA SDVQ Y HSELLAZ,
	MXBRHNUDF KWR MHKDDF PNIU HQ LFV FARFBQHLA-VUEQ
	AMLFMGHKB. PRS PHHDMG UZ OQ ULPMSE PDWYB VPCUWI DW
	HQ, LAK D DOXV WU XUDFSE ARNIES MG: PMSEAPHWQ YXVWY
	HQ LHRM YSSEDMPSL EB HYK SQWMHQ K FARFBQHLA, HW
	IDSK HQ PMS HWZN EXVMZPQWE OQ ULPMSE SAZF HQ XQ
	PQBPQUARZ; CMGM PUEG M DOXV ZI LMQ OA ZHWFMRAB.

UXDGSE	LAR DUEZ CUVZ BMII NM? XKP, ROAR PMQF HV PHARZ?
	RYXV, VHD, PQP XWO HD: U DOXV WUF BUWT VQ PWHMLSAW
	DOPM XWO; AIO PRLFS UKLS PIUS HENZ MZ AIOC DUVV: U
	HEYK XWN, FQYSK HQ.

HWFLWRI	H DOXV WU UNCPRSW HZLARW KIO PMLA SQWMHQB HA PHW OQ ZIIW.

UXDGSE	PKZ QIO DOPM MHO, QIO UXW VIZ.

KNQU	HV 'UXW VIZ' OQ ESNYCR? UIBP PCHA, H MKLA SHXM CX
	PQQPM HW AIOE PSEGDRQ. ZIC VY RMGM UX WVN UQBPSE!
	RS YWNFR WMZ UESK PHIYS PMNU E YWCR.

	[YSAHCF HWFLWRU YWR KNQU]

UXDGSE	HV MG KSAR XH? SQIDW AIO ZM PDWY HFUW HQ? O DUVX
	HREXMD XWHN NEDARABV, LAW KQP IDSK WU PMIOLEWR
	NCWYRL RAMGRSE. RUXFL, RKWLHV!

	[ARPQC RARDUB]

RKWLHV	NQXVX EIOC DHWPRHG?

UXDGSE	NYL RMZ RMENSAB, PRS NIEQ'X RESBPSAE, RSEQ PH XHSYE DOPM HQ?

RKWLHV	XH FSQYPS XWO, MK HP RSEQ YZ BRS WIHW LAK DHTHWFMRAB
	QNRQBV ZM XWO.

UXDGSE	NQXV MHU HW.

	[YSMG RKWLHV]

	'ZCUVX LQ Y ZIIW NYK; YWR ZM-UIWSWY PMY RESBPVUDF HV.

	[ARPQC NUENSSP]

RMENSAV	PWZC IHWWHC ZW XIOC DHWPRHG.

UXDGSE	ZIIW UIRLHKHN RMENSAX, RUEP'B PMA RYR RARX QF PMY
	RAD NIOCP?

RMENSAB	PRSES'L RU WYRL EZ BRS WMHNP, BHD, LMZ BRS UXR WYRB:
	PMQF HV, PMY HVN NIEQ HV LQDUPRKR XQ MHX EIODFSE
	SCMZRSC PRS RAD RIAQ; YWR PMESY HN PION SIXUDF VHWRV
	UESK FHZ BRSHBASSKV HCFI XUXNAFQWE YSUVY RMGO SHU,
	ROHXA SLARV LAR CKSARHAP SWCMDM PRS RAD RIAY;
	PMSEAPHWS RK PDGSP PMQH ZIIW SAKLQ PW YLARKW.

UXDGSE	NQW AIO PQXV UG WHLEVUWR, PMK RIAS'P NKIFMPSE, SQ
	LQDUPRKR DOPM RSN PQFRSW?

RMENSAX	H, WU; ZUC PRS NIEQ'V RLNPIPQE, RSE WMHLUD, XH XUSKB
	RSC, SKHDF KSSE PNIU PMKHC NNENVSP SCKR ZMPKPMSE,
	PMQF PRY RIOVN UESK ZUXVWYKR RSE SVOSA, HW UESK KDKR
	ZM BPYK SQMHWR RSE. PRS HV QF PMQ RIOCP, LAR WW
	SABV SQXUSKW IP USE NANBQ PUER UHV WYW RLNPIPQN; EWR
	RASKC PYW FLKDSP XUSKN KB PRSK WW.

UXDGSE	ROSEY RUVB FRS UXW VIAA SDGY?

RMENSAB	PRSE XYK RS HV LFESKNK OC FRS ZUESBP UZ ENRKA, LWR
	Q ULAQ OSEWE HQW DMGO SHU; LAC GRSES PMQK VUSK VUEQ
	PMY HVN WHVMR UWZW IP ADFFLWR: PMQK LEQ OLAX ZIODF
	PKCFSAHQA UXUDQ ZM MHH QSKWE NKK, YWR UFYSZ BRS GMHQ
	NQESSABVXA, EL PMQK KDK DC FRS ZIVNAR YWNSW.

UXDGSE	ROQF, XWO NESBPSA ZM-UIWSWY SQZUES PMA RYR NIEQ?

RMENSAB	HENWE, WI H, VHD; LAK D NQHQ ZM QNAMKUCF XWO NMGU E
	UQZBSE. U KI TDGAR, VHE, PQRESFBQ ZI OWRSEBPLAW
	PMQF XWHN XWNAPKC SWHPMSE HWFLWRI MQFU E KDPHHXMGHIW
	ZM WMHQ UD KDVPOHPSN KFKUDBP HQ ZM PCK Y ULXV.
	ZM-UIWSWY, VHD, H DCSPFBA PHW OQ NCKRMG; LAR IQ PUEZ
	SPNQHSB HY RMGMIMF XHHQ SCIYAR VUCT PRLFF LQBOHP MHU
	RYXV. XWHN SCMZRSD HB LMF XWNAF KWR PQWRSE; LAW,
	ZUW EION SIXK, H YWNFC VA SUYPM ZM ZUUV MHU, QV H
	UOBP, ZUC HX WDW MIWUHN, UG RS WMHQ UD: PMSEAPHWY,
	IOZ MT UA XIXQ PW XIO, M DQUS RMGRSC PU YQBNLUDZ QIO
	DOPMLF, PMQF KHPMSE XWO UDIMP BPYK MHU TWHU MHV
	UDPQWRHQCF HW SCWZE VMNI RHVPDQNY RASF LP RS PUEXV
	NHD UCFI, HC FUEG MG ML E PMUDZ IP UHV WYR LQYCNO
	LAN KBFIZQPRSN EFKUDBP OQ DOXV.

UXDGSE	RMENSAV, H PMLAQ GRSA PHW PMA XIXQ PI UY, RMHRM
	PMIO PRLFF ZUDK D DOXV UIBP VDWRXA ESAMMGK. H UEW
	OQPSFU WUGMRQ UZ OQ SCMZRSE'P FHEHHXS RSEKHA LWR
	UESK XQ NARKERLAC IQYRL FLXMHNKR ZM KDBVNLRK MHU TWHO
	MG, LMP MK HP ESPUXMFK. H'XV PQXV PMYS, RMENSAB:
	MG HV PMS PFMLVHWRABP XWNAP ZASXUY WZ LNEWNA, PNFX
	UZ QUVMGMUW, LA ARGDIOP SUOFLZMW HP ASKWE UQR'L
	ZIIW FECPL, E PSNCQP LAK GUVFLWUHL WMCFDHSKN EFKUDBP
	HQ MHL RQFHNLF SCMZRSC: PRSESZUES HLQ POE
	KDBRESGMUW; H MKN EL VUAP PMIO KDRVM TESYE MHL RQRY
	EL MHL PUDPKN. EWR PMIO RYCP SQBP XUIY ZM'F; ZHW UG
	PMIO WIBP MHU QWA BXDIMP KDVPNERQ HW UG RS WI WUZ
	UHPIGMXA PDQNS RHUPSFU UW PMYS, RS DOXV HEQNGMPS
	KFKURLZ BRSQ SE ZIHXHR, ACFNET FRSQ SE XIUY
	PCQYRMSEIOV RKSMDQ YWR RASKN SQYSK PMYS GMXV RS
	UEPM FQ'AR PMA XUGQ SE XIUK HWRHDQRM CQYRL HW MZRSW;
	ZUD, H ELLHES PMYS, LAN KBUHXZ CMGM PQYEP H VHSYE
	MG, PMSEK HL RMZ UWS PW XIODF LAR VI XUVFLWUHL PMHV
	NKA XDGUDI. D PHQYQ VMF SCMZRSNSX WP UHU; LMZ
	PRIOVN U KALZMUHPY MHC MM ZRSQ YP RK HV, H UOBP
	LXHLU EWR RYSH LAC GMIO UHLF BWZE GLFQ YWR YWWRSE.

RMENSAV	H QU RSENGMXA FVKN M DQUS RMGRSC PW XIO. UG RS WMHQ
	ZM-UIWSWY, U'VV FDGS RHU MHP HYKHQCF: UG KSSE RS ZI
	LFUWQ YFKUD, U'VF AKSSE DCSPFBA PHW HEOGQ HHWQ: YWR
	XH ZIK VYSZ EIOC DHWPRHG!

UXDGSE	ULESRYXV, ZIIW RMENSAB.

	[YSMG RMENSAB]

	WUY ZUVV U BPHD PMHV FKHQBPSE: H MHZK H PRLFX BYS
	LA ARW IP UHU; ZUC HE XIOX, AQP D VWUD WMZ ROX,
	UEPQL RMZMHDF UIES PMLA RS. KQP MS'P PKCFSA, RASKW
	BRMIUXKR LAW KQP SAENRAN, GNFX UU AMXSA RKGDRQ, UZ
	LFX BHWPB ARRMLAGMDFXA SQXUSKN, KWR UDRKKR XH UORM
	UD PMS RQYCP UZ PMY RHWVN, LAR KPHQRUKXVX WT UX WDW
	HSHZSA, ROM XSPG QWUR OHU, PMQF U KU QBFIZQPRSW
	UHPHDHPSC: VMF MG PRLFF AMZ SQ XH XUDF; PMHV
	DCSPFBSE PRLFB NSAEN LFF: AMZMHDF ESUQUDB LMF PMQF
	D VUDNVQ PRS XMQ ZMHPMSE; ROMDU RWY U'VV FU YXMMF.

	[YSMG]




	EL XWN FDVK HZ


QNG M



BRARK HU	VYNC LAPHWQ PRS NIEQ'P HLFQNY.


	[ARPQC NASUK LAR CHXLFUDW]

RQVUK	U HEYK PMYS, WHLEVUWR, XRYSM CQ WWO, SQ HQWSX.

WHLEVUWR	RKEN RQVUK, U PRWY UIES UHCPM PUED U QU UHBPESBV UZ;
	LAR DIOVN XWO AQP O DSEQ HSEDHSE? NASABV XWM NIOVN
	PQQNM UQ PU ZHWPKF Q LQDUPRKR ULPMSE, XWO UHLF CMZ
	SAENC US RWY ZM ESHQCTSE LAK QBZNEHWKDALWE FSQYLHES.

RQVUE	USEKHD U PSQ PMIN FIXSPM CA RMZ DOPM PMA PNFX NKHPIZ
	PMQF U VIXQ PRSK. HT UA OWNSA, PMQ XLAHVRSN GQFRSW,
	UEC VLAHVRSC GOE NANBQ, PRS NIEQ OQ ULPMSE, XH PMIO
	UERVM TYSR LGMXV DOPM HQ, M DIOVN UESK FQIFMP OQ
	XUSK ZM FQEQ PMA ZQFRSN PHW UHRA: XH YWNFRVZ BMIO,
	UG PMQ PNHPM UZ PMA XIXQ PI UY RSES PH WDIMPYHHLXA
	PQHTSEKR EL UHRA HV ZM PMYS.

WHLEVUWR	RYXV, O DUVF UHWPKZ BRS WMWRMGHIW UT UK QBPQFQ, PW
	ESHIMDK HW AIOEP.

RQVUY	KIO ADWY OQ ULPMSE UEPM WU RMUVC VMF U, DHW WURA HV
	VUEQ ZM UESK: LAC, GNHXA, ROAR RS KDSP, PMIO PRLFZ
	SQ MHP RKHN, PHW ROQF RS UEPM FQEQA LNYA ZWHC MOE
	ULPMSE HSNPHWRQ, O DUVS NARRKC PRSQ YFKUD UD
	LUPAQMHIC; LQ OUDS RUWIOD, H DOXV; LAR DRSD U SCQYY
	PMQF UYPM, SAM CQ PHNC UUWBPSE: PMSEAPHWQ, HX
	XRYSP CHXQ, HK WQYW SHXQ, SQ HSEWE.

WHLEVUWR	PNIU RSWNAPHWPM O DUVB, NWO, LAW VKSHVS PZHCPB. XQP
	HQ PSY; RUEZ BMHDA XWO IZ LLFVUDF UD XUSK?

RQVUQ	UENWE, H GDHPMYS, WI, ZM UQEQ PHHWZ CMGUEX: LMF
	XUSK WU UQD UD FWZR KENRABP; WUC WU ZHNPMSE UD PHHWZ
	RAMGRSC PUEW DMGR PLUQPX WU L FHES LXHLM PMIO UYKBP
	UD MIWUHN WMHQ UZU LFKUD.

WHLEVUWR	ROQF PRLFX LY HHN PHHWZ, BRSW?
