+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Nothing known, quantitatively, about the number of
humanities scholars who must see the original versus those who would
settle for an edited transcript, or about the ways in which humanities
scholars are using information technology * Firm conclusions concerning
the manner and extent of the use of supporting materials in print
provided by AM to await completion of evaluative study * A listener's
reflections on additional applications of electronic texts * Role of
electronic resources in teaching elementary research skills to students *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the discussion that followed the presentations by MICHELSON,
VECCIA, and FREEMAN, additional points emerged.

LESK asked if MICHELSON could give any quantitative estimate of the
number of humanities scholars who must see or want to see the original,
or the best possible version of the material, versus those who typically
would settle for an edited transcript.  While unable to provide a figure,
she offered her impressions as an archivist who has done some reference
work and has discussed this issue with other archivists who perform
reference, that those who use archives and those who use primary sources
for what would be considered very high-level scholarly research, as
opposed to, say, undergraduate papers, were few in number, especially
given the public interest in using primary sources to conduct
genealogical or avocational research and the kind of professional
research done by people in private industry or the federal government.
More important in MICHELSON's view was that, quantitatively, nothing is
known about the ways in which, for example, humanities scholars are using
information technology.  No studies exist to offer guidance in creating
strategies.  The most recent study was conducted in 1985 by the American
Council of Learned Societies (ACLS), and what it showed was that 50
percent of humanities scholars at that time were using computers.  That
constitutes the extent of our knowledge.

Concerning AM's strategy for orienting people toward the scope of
electronic resources, FREEMAN could offer no hard conclusions at this
point, because she and her colleagues were still waiting to see,
particularly in the schools, what has been made of their efforts.  Within
the system, however, AM has provided what are called electronic exhibits-
-such as introductions to time periods and materials--and these are
intended to offer a student user a sense of what a broadside is  and what
it might tell her or him.  But FREEMAN conceded that the project staff
would have to talk with students next year, after teachers have had a
summer to use the materials, and attempt to discover what the students
were learning from the materials.  In addition, FREEMAN described
supporting materials in print provided by AM at the request of local
teachers during a meeting held at LC.  These included time lines,
bibliographies, and other materials that could be reproduced on a
photocopier in a classroom.  Teachers could walk away with and use these,
and in this way gain a better understanding of the contents.  But again,
reaching firm conclusions concerning the manner and extent of their use
would have to wait until next year.

As to the changes she saw occurring at the National Archives and Records
Administration (NARA) as a result of the increasing emphasis on
technology in scholarly research, MICHELSON stated that NARA at this
point was absorbing the report by her and Jeff Rothenberg addressing
strategies for the archival profession in general, although not for the
National Archives specifically.  NARA is just beginning to establish its
role and what it can do.  In terms of changes and initiatives that NARA
can take, no clear response could be given at this time.

GREENFIELD remarked two trends mentioned in the session.  Reflecting on
DALY's opening comments on how he could have used a Latin collection of
text in an electronic form, he said that at first he thought most scholars
would be unwilling to do that.  But as he thought of that in terms of the
original meaning of research--that is, having already mastered these texts,
researching them for critical and comparative purposes--for the first time,
the electronic format made a lot of sense.  GREENFIELD could envision
growing numbers of scholars learning the new technologies for that very
aspect of their scholarship and for convenience's sake.

Listening to VECCIA and FREEMAN, GREENFIELD thought of an additional
application of electronic texts.  He realized that AM could be used as a
guide to lead someone to original sources.  Students cannot be expected
to have mastered these sources, things they have never known about
before.  Thus, AM is leading them, in theory, to a vast body of
information and giving them a superficial overview of it, enabling them
to select parts of it.  GREENFIELD asked if any evidence exists that this
resource will indeed teach the new user, the K-12 students, how to do
research.  Scholars already know how to do research and are applying
these new tools.  But he wondered why students would go beyond picking
out things that were most exciting to them.

FREEMAN conceded the correctness of GREENFIELD's observation as applied
to a school environment.  The risk is that a student would sit down at a
system, play with it, find some things of interest, and then walk away.
But in the relatively controlled situation of a school library, much will
depend on the instructions a teacher or a librarian gives a student.  She
viewed the situation not as one of fine-tuning research skills but of
involving students at a personal level in understanding and researching
things.  Given the guidance one can receive at school, it then becomes
possible to teach elementary research skills to students, which in fact
one particular librarian said she was teaching her fifth graders.
FREEMAN concluded that introducing the idea of following one's own path
of inquiry, which is essentially what research entails, involves more
than teaching specific skills.  To these comments VECCIA added the
observation that the individual teacher and the use of a creative
resource, rather than AM itself, seemed to make the key difference.
Some schools and some teachers are making excellent use of the nature
of critical thinking and teaching skills, she said.

Concurring with these remarks, DALY closed the session with the thought that
the more that producers produced for teachers and for scholars to use with
their students, the more successful their electronic products would prove.

                                 ******

SESSION II.  SHOW AND TELL

Jacqueline HESS, director, National Demonstration Laboratory, served as
moderator of the "show-and-tell" session.  She noted that a
question-and-answer period would follow each presentation.

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
MYLONAS * Overview and content of Perseus * Perseus' primary materials
exist in a system-independent, archival form * A concession * Textual
aspects of Perseus * Tools to use with the Greek text * Prepared indices
and full-text searches in Perseus * English-Greek word search leads to
close study of words and concepts * Navigating Perseus by tracing down
indices * Using the iconography to perform research *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Elli MYLONAS, managing editor, Perseus Project, Harvard University, first
gave an overview of Perseus, a large, collaborative effort based at
Harvard University but with contributors and collaborators located at
numerous universities and colleges in the United States (e.g., Bowdoin,
Maryland, Pomona, Chicago, Virginia).  Funded primarily by the
Annenberg/CPB Project, with additional funding from Apple, Harvard, and
the Packard Humanities Institute, among others, Perseus is a multimedia,
hypertextual database for teaching and research on classical Greek
civilization, which was released in February 1992 in version 1.0 and
distributed by Yale University Press.

Consisting entirely of primary materials, Perseus includes ancient Greek
texts and translations of those texts; catalog entries--that is, museum
catalog entries, not library catalog entries--on vases, sites, coins,
sculpture, and archaeological objects; maps; and a dictionary, among
other sources.  The number of objects and the objects for which catalog
entries exist are accompanied by tMIOLEWRX HT NUXHW HUKFSP, ROMDO
WMRLGMFMPQ Q UKUHW PAQFHNY HZ FRS NKFQLQPS.  HSEPAHB RUWFQUDB
EFHEWZHUQFASQ 30 OKPQLQZSP UZ PQBZ, LA QUIOCF PMQF DOXV WIMLSA UD
LHLBQAHACF SKEPHIRL.  UD KNKDGMUW ZM PMSPS HDHUQWE UQPQDHLFB, PRS HSEPAHB
HEIHQRP MEL SQAR LMUVKDDF ZMUXL PHW HLUDP FRSO, BYEUDF KWBSPL EWR
ALGDFKGMUW QYVHSE, PMK PUYX LKHDF ZM LMUVR GENZ MZ FRS ASQRPCUWMD
ARGDWHCUARG CHVNMBVKR QYNSHKD HC FRS UICWUDI DW DMHRM BPINARPB HW
BRMIFLEP NQW DHWY DMGM PRSHD XHHNRQB.

PMK RQHUWBPNEGMUW UZ HSEPAHX RUVX BMIY WAFK Y PNQNGMUW UZ PMS EQYX NHWY
PMQF UEV PUWK HCFI HM, TQRLNPS PMS HWHHKQM UEC GU ZQNQ PRS KDSAOBY UZ
ROQF ZM ARPQC DRSR FMFGMDF XHHQPMUDI DCFI UQNMHRA-ESKNQLSA ZUCH:  PRIOVN
UWQ YHU ZUD SSEE ODIM ENLVUZQ HW UQEQ WMWNSPVHUWV HW UCRSE ZM PKZ BRS
UQPQDHLF UD?  VHWNS HSEPSHL RKDMRKC GW ZTF ZUD SSEE ODIM ENLVUZQ, LFX UZ
MGP HDHUQWE UQPQDHLFP SVOBP UD E LEXPQU-HWRSHARRKCF--UDXHULN EV HG MB
ZHBVMVSA ZM SQ XEBPQH-UDRKHSWRARF--QCNMHLKF UHWI.  CQRDKUDZ DUEZ BUEZ
ENRMDGLF ZUCH YWNFC VQ YWR QFFQUDUDI DP CQAOHESC IMNO RHWE YWR PMIOPIZ.
ZUE SLYHTSA, LFB FRS PQBZL EES UQDEKR HF UD VPUB, ROMDO RUVX LQ HKNY
WMHTQFMVSA DOPM PMK POHRKVURAX HZ FRS PQBZ ARWMKDDF UDMGUKGMSK (PQO) DRSW
PMQK ENK HBVHAW.

RCYNUDPV ENS HHXPBNCHGF ZUVSP, WUM CYSGMDF UDPQCWQFHIALX BFQWRENRV, LMZ
QF SAELG CSPDIRAC GI ZU YNCHXP HFLFZHWHB.  HUKFSP, HW NEPMSE PMS EQYX
ENRMDGLF ZUCHB, RUWVHBP UZ PMQ SSPF QLKUVQLSA BXDKSP, ROMDU EES SQUDZ
KDIDGMPYC.  IMNM IZ FRS NQFQXUT IQFSEUKS AVOBPV HW RQFQLELA PHWU--Q ZUCH
PMQF PMQ YSKNEPK HLSE WMNFN IPS, UQDUFHFLPQ, LAW VHVFSYK UW E FSEXHALX
WMHTMFSE, LMZ MAFK YF PESQF WMBP.  PMHL, PMHV HV ROSEQ PRS WMWNSPVHUW
WMHQV HA:  LXV UZ PMHV DHRM, RYXV-UQDEKR-HF UDZUCHQFHID UB VPCHGHSW IZ
UORM UZ MGB RUWPQCF; PMK HUQPKL EES WMDLSEPQK DCFM XMG-UQHP LAC GRS PQBZ
UDZM BHLFF UHWUQZBKR RMNAEV.  LFB FMHV HAUHWUQGMUW NQC FRSC LK HHTHWPQW
UDZM OEHSCNENN KWR NHW UA L UHR-CLAPK UQDMCFHXO, RMHRM HV ROQF HSEPAHB
HLSEP RKLQ.  PMHL PQNP MEL UQRK MG ZHBVMVSA ZUE HSEPSHL ZM QFFQUD DORK
HLA PKUNSE WEFDKXA.  DOPMIOZ BMIPS ENRMDGLF ZUCHB PRS OEHSCNENK GSEVHUW
SQUDI KQHUWBPNEPQR NIOVN WUM TQ HKNY SELUVK, YWR PMS HWHHKQM WMNFR WMZ
UESK PMS HMZARGMLF ZM UISK ZM MZRSN PHWHB LAC IQNMHRAL EWR XHZFNYES EL
PMQK EFHSEN, WURA UZ ROMDM HAUHWUQGMUW HV UD HSEPAHX HC FRS NR.

UZ PMA ROUSEIOB HNFGMHQKDY LPHQRPB UZ HSEPAHB, HAXUWEL ZUNMPSW IC FRS
PQBZNLS.  FENZ MZ NUEM CYESP HSEPAHB VMNU E FSQYLHES ZM HLQ, HAXUWEL
LEDK, HV PMHV APZUCP QF PSQUSABV UDPQPDQFHIA LWR PMQ YVMVUZQ ZM UISK
ENIOWR XMPM GDLHLF LAC GYSFMLF UQPQDHLF.  HSEPAHL EXBI UKNQ PRS RKDMVHUW
WUZ BU YZBQHTF ZM UDPQEHESG MPB UQPQDHLF LAQ OHWQ PUEW URA UDPQEHESPB XQ
PSSAQMUDT.  VMF, OQXUALP SHTUEVHPYR, GSEPSHL HV WUM QIOEPYRENA:  RW
XEXVQLHL YSHVPB.  PMSEK HL RH YZLHWZ BI WAPUDS RWY UWQ PQYRMSP Q FHZMD
HLUDP TSEPSHL, LFPMIOPI PMS HWHHKQM UQK QSKCFNLXVQ WUXSAQM FEHSEP XQ
HSHZSA ROI MKLA HPSK DZ BM ZQYRM.  NEPMSE, HSEPAHL EHUB PH ZWHGDRK
HEHUENQ OQFSEUKV UA L VDWR UZ ASQRPCUWMD VUSCENK, YR ASAQMWHDUR BLACVWZ,
XH ZM LEK, OW DMHRM BPINARPB LAR VRMUXENX RMI ENY RHWVDDF UW PMHV
UQPQDHLF NQR ASZXUES XQ PMQHPSXSSP.  DOPM PMQF, OQXUALV RQHUWBPNEPQW
HSEPAHB, LKPUDDUDF DOPM PMS HSEPSHL FKPQNYQ, ZRS GUEPZ BMHDF UWS PYSB
HFUW HZARUDP TSEPSHL--LA APZUCP UD FECP ZM XHXSQ PRS WMCFYSFMLFOGUDZ
HEMXSAO--CMHRM PQXVB PRS HLSE ROQF PMS PEXPQC QUWFQUDB.

OQXUALV RQHUWBPNEPQW IAFK Y SKWE BHLFS FHWGMUW, SQIDWLUDZ DMGR HDHUQWE
PQBZL EWR NHWLUDZ IZL PMQ RR-CIU.  UEGDDF PSSAQMKR YQBROEFNP' HWHHQPMAHB
XMNAR, DMHRM NYB SHKNYLXK HD FESQE LAR KDFVUPR HEQPZQ UORM UD PMS PQUY
PSTIARPB ZMPKPMSE, OQXUALV RQHUWBPNEPQC GWZXB ZM HLY RMGM PRS PDYSQ GYSZ,
XHHQPMUDF DMZ ZHBVMVSA DOPM Q LWZA:  VWZVDDF HF PMK RMDGMUWENK QCFWE ZUCH
UZ LA NAULUHVUEN YWCR UD PDYSE YZFSE LHVMQRGMDF MG ZM HSEPAHB'
UIEHMIXUIDNQF LALXAVHL PHW LFB FRS PQBZL.  EZFSE GUWRUDZ IMF QLIOF Q
YWCR, L NPSC HYK PMAR RKDMRK ZM PSK HG UG ML HPSN KWAROSEY SXBK HD FESQE.
SQNQHLK SELF QUINAPB UZ UDRKVODF LHZSHWF QXV UZ PMS HDHUQWE UQPQDHLF, UWY
NQA UUDW IMF ROSEY SXBQ YXV ZUCHX HU L FECPMDNFEN PDYSY DHWN KZSQYW--
UZPQW LMZ Q FDHGDLF UQZBSE SQNQHLK PESQE HV MHPIXA UDUFQRPQN.  GHNPMSE,
VHWNQ PRS BPHWX WZ TWHHQPMAHP REL ZM WI DOPM PMY HDHIDRL UZ LENCUGMDQ, Y
HLSE UQX YHVM PH XFMWK LAR KSZXUES LENCUGMDK HD FESQE VUPQNEFMES; XQ
ZQGHDF LENCUGMDK HCFU Y BHLFX NUDWIN, Y HLSE ZISP ZM PMY SDFVUPR-PDYSY
YWCR VUBP--XHHQPMUDZ IRA NQWLMZ WI DOPMIOZ BRS WMHTMFSE (HSEPAHP REL
UDRKSYC GRS RKGUDUGMUWX HG UPB KDQMHIALWE)--PMS PPCUDP VQNDHGURQ EFHSENB
UD PMK RAPUDMGHIRL UZ PMSPS POVZQ-GUSK YWCRX.  HRA UQQ ZRSA UUDW IMF
ROSEQ YWA UZ PMHXY RHWRV HV HLKR UD PMY RHWE(V) UZ E FENGMNMFLN EMFMIW.
PMY SDFVUPR RKGUDUGMUWL EES WUF BQHUQGMPYW.
