
LYNCH closed by noting that the kinds of applications demonstrated struck
him as excellent justifications of broad-scale networking for K-12, but
that at this time no "killer" application exists to mobilize the K-12
community to obtain connectivity.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Dearth of genuinely interesting applications on the network
a slow-changing situation * The issue of the integrity of presentation in
a networked environment * Several reasons why CD-ROM software does not
network *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the discussion period that followed LYNCH's presentation, several
additional points were made.

LYNCH reiterated even more strongly his contention that, historically,
once one goes outside high-end science and the group of those who need
access to supercomputers, there is a great dearth of genuinely
interesting applications on the network.  He saw this situation changing
slowly, with some of the scientific databases and scholarly discussion
groups and electronic journals coming on as well as with the availability
of Wide Area Information Servers (WAIS) and some of the databases that
are being mounted there.  However, many of those things do not seem to
have piqued great popular interest.  For instance, most high school
students of LYNCH's acquaintance would not qualify as devotees of serious
molecular biology.

Concerning the issue of the integrity of presentation, LYNCH believed
that a couple of information providers have laid down the law at least on
certain things.  For example, his recollection was that the National
Library of Medicine feels strongly that one needs to employ the
identifier field if he or she is to mount a database commercially.  The
problem with a real networked environment is that one does not know who
is reformatting and reprocessing one's data when one enters a client
server mode.  It becomes anybody's guess, for example, if the network
uses a Z39.50 server, or what clients are doing with one's data.  A data
provider can say that his contract will only permit clients to have
access to his data after he vets them and their presentation and makes
certain it suits him.  But LYNCH held out little expectation that the
network marketplace would evolve in that way, because it required too
much prior negotiation.

CD-ROM software does not network for a variety of reasons, LYNCH said.
He speculated that CD-ROM publishers are not eager to have their products
really hook into wide area networks, because they fear it will make their
data suppliers nervous.  Moreover, until relatively recently, one had to
be rather adroit to run a full TCP/IP stack plus applications on a
PC-size machine, whereas nowadays it is becoming easier as PCs grow
bigger and faster.  LYNCH also speculated that software providers had not
heard from their customers until the last year or so, or had not heard
from enough of their customers.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
BESSER * Implications of disseminating images on the network; planning
the distribution of multimedia documents poses two critical
implementation problems * Layered approach represents the way to deal
with users' capabilities * Problems in platform design; file size and its
implications for networking * Transmission of megabyte size images
impractical * Compression and decompression at the user's end * Promising
trends for compression * A disadvantage of using X-Windows * A project at
the Smithsonian that mounts images on several networks *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Howard BESSER, School of Library and Information Science, University of
Pittsburgh, spoke primarily about multimedia, focusing on images and the
broad implications of disseminating them on the network.  He argued that
planning the distribution of multimedia documents posed two critical
implementation problems, which he framed in the form of two questions:
1) What platform will one use and what hardware and software will users
have for viewing of the material?  and 2) How can one deliver a
sufficiently robust set of information in an accessible format in a
reasonable amount of time?  Depending on whether network or CD-ROM is the
medium used, this question raises different issues of storage,
compression, and transmission.

Concerning the design of platforms (e.g., sound, gray scale, simple
color, etc.) and the various capabilities users may have, BESSER
maintained that a layered approach was the way to deal with users'
capabilities.  A result would be that users with less powerful
workstations would simply have less functionality.  He urged members of
the audience to advocate standards and accompanying software that handle
layered functionality across a wide variety of platforms.

BESSER also addressed problems in platform design, namely, deciding how
large a machine to design for situations when the largest number of users
have the lowest level of the machine, and one desires higher
functionality.  BESSER then proceeded to the question of file size and
its implications for networking.  He discussed still images in the main.
For example, a digital color image that fills the screen of a standard
mega-pel workstation (Sun or Next) will require one megabyte of storage
for an eight-bit image or three megabytes of storage for a true color or
twenty-four-bit image.  Lossless compression algorithms (that is,
computational procedures in which no data is lost in the process of
compressing [and decompressing] an image--the exact bit-representation is
maintained) might bring storage down to a third of a megabyte per image,
but not much further than that.  The question of size makes it difficult
to fit an appropriately sized set of these images on a single disk or to
transmit them quickly enough on a network.

With these full screen mega-pel images that constitute a third of a
megabyte, one gets 1,000-3,000 full-screen images on a one-gigabyte disk;
a standard CD-ROM represents approximately 60 percent of that.  Storing
images the size of a PC screen (just 8 bit color) increases storage
capacity to 4,000-12,000 images per gigabyte; 60 percent of that gives
one the size of a CD-ROM, which in turn creates a major problem.  One
cannot have full-screen, full-color images with lossless compression; one
must compress them or use a lower resolution.  For megabyte-size images,
anything slower than a T-1 speed is impractical.  For example, on a
fifty-six-kilobaud line, it takes three minutes to transfer a
one-megabyte file, if it is not compressed; and this speed assumes ideal
circumstances (no other user contending for network bandwidth).  Thus,
questions of disk access, remote display, and current telephone
connection speed make transmission of megabyte-size images impractical.

BESSER then discussed ways to deal with these large images, for example,
compression and decompression at the user's end.  In this connection, the
issues of how much one is willing to lose in the compression process and
what image quality one needs in the first place are unknown.  But what is
known is that compression entails some loss of data.  BESSER urged that
more studies be conducted on image quality in different situations, for
example, what kind of images are needed for what kind of disciplines, and
what kind of image quality is needed for a browsing tool, an intermediate
viewing tool, and archiving.

BESSER remarked two promising trends for compression:  from a technical
perspective, algorithms that use what is called subjective redundancy
employ principles from visual psycho-physics to identify and remove
information from the image that the human eye cannot perceive; from an
interchange and interoperability perspective, the JPEG (i.e., Joint
Photographic Experts Group, an ISO standard) compression algorithms also
offer promise.  These issues of compression and decompression, BESSER
argued, resembled those raised earlier concerning the design of different
platforms.  Gauging the capabilities of potential users constitutes a
primary goal.  BESSER advocated layering or separating the images from
the applications that retrieve and display them, to avoid tying them to
particular software.

BESSER detailed several lessons learned from his work at Berkeley with
Imagequery, especially the advantages and disadvantages of using
X-Windows.  In the latter category, for example, retrieval is tied
directly to one's data, an intolerable situation in the long run on a
networked system.  Finally, BESSER described a project of Jim Wallace at
the Smithsonian Institution, who is mounting images in a extremely
rudimentary way on the Compuserv and Genie networks and is preparing to
mount them on America On Line.  Although the average user takes over
thirty minutes to download these images (assuming a fairly fast modem),
nevertheless, images have been downloaded 25,000 times.

BESSER concluded his talk with several comments on the business
arrangement between the Smithsonian and Compuserv.  He contended that not
enough is known concerning the value of images.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Creating digitized photographic collections nearly
impossible except with large organizations like museums * Need for study
to determine quality of images users will tolerate *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the brief exchange between LESK and BESSER that followed, several
clarifications emerged.

LESK argued that the photographers were far ahead of BESSER:  It is
almost impossible to create such digitized photographic collections
except with large organizations like museums, because all the
photographic agencies have been going crazy about this and will not sign
licensing agreements on any sort of reasonable terms.  LESK had heard
that National Geographic, for example, had tried to buy the right to use
some image in some kind of educational production for $100 per image, but
the photographers will not touch it.  They want accounting and payment
for each use, which cannot be accomplished within the system.  BESSER
responded that a consortium of photographers, headed by a former National
Geographic photographer, had started assembling its own collection of
electronic reproductions of images, with the money going back to the
cooperative.

LESK contended that BESSER was unnecessarily pessimistic about multimedia
images, because people are accustomed to low-quality images, particularly
from video.  BESSER urged the launching of a study to determine what
users would tolerate, what they would feel comfortable with, and what
absolutely is the highest quality they would ever need.  Conceding that
he had adopted a dire tone in order to arouse people about the issue,
BESSER closed on a sanguine note by saying that he would not be in this
business if he did not think that things could be accomplished.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
LARSEN * Issues of scalability and modularity * Geometric growth of the
Internet and the role played by layering * Basic functions sustaining
this growth * A library's roles and functions in a network environment *
Effects of implementation of the Z39.50 protocol for information
retrieval on the library system * The trade-off between volumes of data
and its potential usage * A snapshot of current trends *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Ronald LARSEN, associate director for information technology, University
of Maryland at College Park, first addressed the issues of scalability
and modularity.  He noted the difficulty of anticipating the effects of
orders-of-magnitude growth, reflecting on the twenty years of experience
with the Arpanet and Internet.  Recalling the day's demonstrations of
CD-ROM and optical disk material, he went on to ask if the field has yet
learned how to scale new systems to enable delivery and dissemination
across large-scale networks.

LARSEN focused on the geometric growth of the Internet from its inception
circa 1969 to the present, and the adjustments required to respond to
that rapid growth.  To illustrate the issue of scalability, LARSEN
considered computer networks as including three generic components:
computers, network communication nodes, and communication media.  Each
component scales (e.g., computers range from PCs to supercomputers;
network nodes scale from interface cards in a PC through sophisticated
routers and gateways; and communication media range from 2,400-baud
dial-up facilities through 4.5-Mbps backbone links, and eventually to
multigigabit-per-second communication lines), and architecturally, the
components are organized to scale hierarchically from local area networks
to international-scale networks.  Such growth is made possible by
building layers of communication protocols, as BESSER pointed out.
By layering both physically and logically, a sense of scalability is
maintained from local area networks in offices, across campuses, through
bridges, routers, campus backbones, fiber-optic links, etc., up into
regional networks and ultimately into national and international
networks.

LARSEN then illustrated the geometric growth over a two-year period--
through September 1991--of the number of networks that comprise the
Internet.  This growth has been sustained largely by the availability of
three basic functions:  electronic mail, file transfer (ftp), and remote
log-on (telnet).  LARSEN also reviewed the growth in the kind of traffic
that occurs on the network.  Network traffic reflects the joint contributions
of a larger population of users and increasing use per user.  Today one sees
serious applications involving moving images across the network--a rarity
ten years ago.  LARSEN recalled and concurred with BESSER's main point
that the interesting problems occur at the application level.

LARSEN then illustrated a model of a library's roles and functions in a
network environment.  He noted, in particular, the placement of on-line
catalogues onto the network and patrons obtaining access to the library
increasingly through local networks, campus networks, and the Internet.
LARSEN supported LYNCH's earlier suggestion that we need to address
fundamental questions of networked information in order to build
environments that scale in the information sense as well as in the
physical sense.

LARSEN supported the role of the library system as the access point into
the nation's electronic collections.  Implementation of the Z39.50
protocol for information retrieval would make such access practical and
feasible.  For example, this would enable patrons in Maryland to search
California libraries, or other libraries around the world that are
conformant with Z39.50 in a manner that is familiar to University of
Maryland patrons.  This client-server model also supports moving beyond
secondary content into primary content.  (The notion of how one links
from secondary content to primary content, LARSEN said, represents a
fundamental problem that requires rigorous thought.)  After noting
numerous network experiments in accessing full-text materials, including
projects supporting the ordering of materials across the network, LARSEN
revisited the issue of transmitting high-density, high-resolution color
images across the network and the large amounts of bandwidth they
require.  He went on to address the bandwidth and synchronization
problems inherent in sending full-motion video across the network.

LARSEN illustrated the trade-off between volumes of data in bytes or
orders of magnitude and the potential usage of that data.  He discussed
transmission rates (particularly, the time it takes to move various forms
of information), and what one could do with a network supporting
multigigabit-per-second transmission.  At the moment, the network
environment includes a composite of data-transmission requirements,
volumes and forms, going from steady to bursty (high-volume) and from
very slow to very fast.  This aggregate must be considered in the design,
construction, and operation of multigigabyte networks.

LARSEN's objective is to use the networks and library systems now being
constructed to increase access to resources wherever they exist, and
thus, to evolve toward an on-line electronic virtual library.

LARSEN concluded by offering a snapshot of current trends:  continuing
geometric growth in network capacity and number of users; slower
development of applications; and glacial development and adoption of
standards.  The challenge is to design and develop each new application
system with network access and scalability in mind.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
BROWNRIGG * Access to the Internet cannot be taken for granted * Packet
radio and the development of MELVYL in 1980-81 in the Division of Library
Automation at the University of California  *  Design criteria for packet
radio * A demonstration project in San Diego and future plans * Spread
spectrum * Frequencies at which the radios will run and plans to
reimplement the WAIS server software in the public domain * Need for an
infrastructure of radios that do not move around *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Edwin BROWNRIGG, executive director, Memex Research Institute, first
polled the audience in order to seek out regular users of the Internet as
well as those planning to use it some time in the future.  With nearly
everybody in the room falling into one category or the other, BROWNRIGG
made a point re access, namely that numerous individuals, especially those
who use the Internet every day, take for granted their access to it, the
speeds with which they are connected, and how well it all works.
However, as BROWNRIGG discovered between 1987 and 1989 in Australia,
if one wants access to the Internet but cannot afford it or has some
physical boundary that prevents her or him from gaining access, it can
be extremely frustrating.  He suggested that because of economics and
physical barriers we were beginning to create a world of haves and have-nots
in the process of scholarly communication, even in the United States.

BROWNRIGG detailed the development of MELVYL in academic year 1980-81 in
the Division of Library Automation at the University of California, in
order to underscore the issue of access to the system, which at the
outset was extremely limited.  In short, the project needed to build a
network, which at that time entailed use of satellite technology, that is,
putting earth stations on campus and also acquiring some terrestrial links
from the State of California's microwave system.  The installation of
satellite links, however, did not solve the problem (which actually
formed part of a larger problem involving politics and financial resources).
For while the project team could get a signal onto a campus, it had no means
of distributing the signal throughout the campus.  The solution involved
adopting a recent development in wireless communication called packet radio,
which combined the basic notion of packet-switching with radio.  The project
used this technology to get the signal from a point on campus where it
came down, an earth station for example, into the libraries, because it
found that wiring the libraries, especially the older marble buildings,
would cost $2,000-$5,000 per terminal.

BROWNRIGG noted that, ten years ago, the project had neither the public
policy nor the technology that would have allowed it to use packet radio
in any meaningful way.  Since then much had changed.  He proceeded to
detail research and development of the technology, how it is being
deployed in California, and what direction he thought it would take.
The design criteria are to produce a high-speed, one-time, low-cost,
high-quality, secure, license-free device (packet radio) that one can
plug in and play today, forget about it, and have access to the Internet.
By high speed, BROWNRIGG meant 1 mePQLQZQ YWR 1.5 HQFKXQPQB.  PMIPS NAMGB
UESK SQAR LMUVP, MQ RUWGMANKR, LAN KES UD PMS HWHRQBV UZ SQUDZ
ZQHS-RQCPUGHKC VK YD UWRSHARRKCF NARKCDDHGMDF FLXMNEZMWE XH PMQF PMQK NQW
SQ ZQHS-VURQRLKR XQ PMA PKRSELF WMOBNAMDQFHIRL WMOBHVVHUW.  EL HV PMY
NQPS DOPM DMGMPYRL LQWR, UWY RUVX LQ YLXQ PH ZHNRMELQ Y NAMG LAR WMZ UESK
ZM YWWSK YXMMF EFFSKODF ZUN E VURQRLY.

PMQ SELMD DKQY, SCWYWCDIP KFLXMNEPQK, DB PM ZYES RDIR-PHSKR NEKDI WQFY
PCLABHHVVHUW LAR NESQFQ Y LQDQXMRA RAZCHWQ GUEF QM QSEFQUD BPNEPQIDW
ZHUDPB UD PMA RQPYWDE DOXV "FKPQNYK" OCFU Y HQKDOU-PHYSR GQNEQP CKNHI
(H.K., UWQ PUEP CNAL EG 38.4 QUVMXQZSP), XH PMQF HSEREFB LX 1994-1995
HSHZSA, VUEQ PMHXK HC FRS LNKDARRQ ZUC PRS HEMDY HU L BDC NIOVN FHCNUEPS
Q UKRHOH-BHSKR NEKDU ZHW PMY HZLMDY HE RIUS, RKLA PNFF AQPYWDE WMWLQRGMGDZQ
ZM PMK HCFSERAF, QWR FECPYEY HU LXV MGB VSEGDRQX, RMGU RU WYSN GHW LA TNW
VURQRLQ YWR WU ESFIFLC SUVF UWHC MRS XUNQB NIUUIW NENDHSE.  SCWYWCDIZ
HESPARPQR VKSSELF RKFQUVX HU L RKUIRLPCQFHIR FWHHKQM NMWSARFBQ ZYEUDZ
FSQNK HR LLA KDKPU YWR RKBRDHSQR GFLRL, HSWRUDP ZNAKDDF, ZM UDBPLFF L
UNXV-XMES RAZCHWV DC FRS LEA UNEWNHVWM ENQY.  PMHV RAZCHWY DUVS UKLY 600
WURKP ENADUDF QF LQDQXMRA PHYSRV, LAW 100 IZ FRSPS WURKX RUVX LA SMVNEDHSP,
ROMDM HC FHNW DUVX LQ PRS FKPQNYE ZHWPB ZM PMQ 38.4 EUVMXQZS EKNHIB PUEZ
DOXV IDSK WMSKNEPK ZUC PRS RADIMSHWMIIWB VHNWHNAKDDF PMA SMVNEDHSP.

SCWYWCDIF DYSP QSZFLUDKR FECP 15.247, L AYR NHSA DOPMUD GMFBY 47 HZ FRS
WMRK UZ PARKNES NKPNFQFHIRL ARQNPQC VQ ZRS TND MC 1985.  FMHP ENFY
RMLFSADFKR PMK HWRHLPCX, YMHRM UEX HAFA WWY DHPSC FM ZRS MWNQVHUW, ZM
LMUVN K NEKDM ZUEZ CIOVN NHA LF CI UHWQ PUEW URA NYZB UZ IOFTMF ZHRYN EWR
HLQ Y ULHDXA YSMZMD HQPMIW UZ UINIFLGMDF PMS EKNHI NYSK NQXVKR PHESKN
PHQRPCOU.  PHESKN PHQRPCOU UD ULQM HSCHMGB PRS LMUVKDDF UZ RAZCHWEV XH
PMQF ANHQWHHL NKFQ WMOBNAMDQFHIRL NQW UWBHN VHUOBFLAYHHLXA, DOPMIOZ
UDPQNPSEUDZ DMGR SQNM IPMSE, DOPMUD PMS PQUY RDKS EKNHI RMLARAX.

SCWYWCDIP KSZFLUDKR PMQF PMA PESAMARDMSP QF ROMDM PRS NEKDHX YWNFR CNA
ENK SSEE XMICP NYSK VHFDLFB.  PRSK YES RYXV QLIXS PFQWRENC IMDWHNYSK LAW
NENKC.  DMGU E NEKDW YKLQ PUEP BUQXV, UWY RQFM TQRIUSP Q FESHQWRIOP HNARM
HSC SMG LAC GMOB HYESP PCLABHHVVHUW QF ESELUWQLSA PHYSR GHXVHLXK.  HW
HWRKC PI UUDHUOGQ PRS ZHPQCFUKF UHW WMDFSPGMUW, PMS HWHHKQM HV
NARKCPYEUDP FH WKHHTSAHQCF XHZFNYES ROMDO SEL SQAR KLKUFLLXK HC FRS
RAZCHWVDDF LMVHRABV LAK DB PYEAR ZUD PNECFKR WUN, ZHW YSQUFSQ, PRT/HG,
WHMFUDF KVFHWMGMUB, LDHKISP, LAK IQFYRYKV.  HA LWVMGHIC, FRS HEIHQRZ
FSLAB PM ZYEQ PRS NYHV PSDSSE XHZFNYES UD PMS HMLVUN RIUKUA LWR
ESHUFSQHARG MP BM ZUEZ MRA NQR UKLQ Y NYHV PSDSSE UW Q UQN UDBPQYW IU L
NAOV UQRMUDQ.  PRS HQHQS WSPQYCNM HRLGMFMPQ SQVUKSSP PMQF VUSCENHKV, HW
FECPMDNFEN, DOXV NYCF ZM HLQ PRS NYHV PSDSSEX RMGR HQNEQP CKNHI.  PMHV
HEIHQRZ, CMHRM UEL E PQQU UZ QLIOZ BRYXSS HYHFSY, RUVS NNA PMWHIFO 1993
LAR DUVV UWNFNRK PMA 100 SMVNEDHSP LFESKNQ OARGMUWKR EL RYXV EL MZRSW
HEUZSPVHUWLFB VMNU EB PMIPS UD PMQ HKRMDLF HEUZSPVHUW, ARIDRASEUDF, KWR
FLC.  ZMOB, PRS RAKR HV ZM NCQYPQ LA UDPNELPCMNFMES UZ NEKDHX PMQF WI WUZ
UISK ENIOWR, ROMDM, SWHDWDHZV MIHSX, RUVX BUXSK E FWHLXQH WUZ MAFA ZHW
VUSCENHKB LMF ZUD HWRDGDKNLXB ROM, XK YWR FLDPQ PIWYK, WI WUP MKLQ YWBSPB
ZM PMK HCFSERAF ZWHC MRSHD MIHQL EWR UZGURQB.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
KDBRHLVHUW * HEIHQRZ MHSNEGMDF PNQAHAWNHKB *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

NIDHDF Q LDHAP KDBRHLVHUW HSDHIW, ROMDU EXBM WUWNBINKR PMK RYK'B
HEMWYSKDDFB, LWHDWDHZV BPQFKR PMQF PMS HWHHKQM NYX HHSNEGMDF UD ZUHN
PNQAHAWNHKB.  PRS BXWY PHYSK DX HHSNEGMDF QF 435 HQFKRSCPF, YWR MG YWNFW
FLPQD PI OT FI 920 UKPEUSEFG.  DOPM PMS RDIR-PHSKR PNQAHAWNQ, ZRS
UWQ-HKPQLQZS EKNHIX RUVS NNA QF 2.4 IDFKVMPB, LAR 1.5 DUVS NNA QF 5.7.
QF 5.7, NEUD NQC LQ Y ULQMHW, LMG MZ CIOVN UESK ZM SQ PCHZMDLF NEUD,
NAVUEQ ROQF ULXVV HC UHXF TENPB UZ PMA HDUPQR VFQPQB.

                                 ******

PSBVHID UG.  DUQPK NQTFHNQ, PYSM QEFFMES, IXSEGDYR UZ PQBZ LAW
             HUKFS PZMNEPK ZUCHQFB

DOXVUKU MWZZMD, LMDS HESVHRKCF UZ HZSEQFHIRL, U-DQP, UIRKNEPQC GMHB VSPVHUW.

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
EQWLQK * ULQMHWV HAUFNARDMDF RKSKXUTHARZ MT NSZ * KNLKCFKFSP UZ HLUDZ
KDIDFQB FQRURUXIZK XSELHP HMIZMWMZE LAC IMDWHGUBU * E FDHUQWE ZILF UZ
WBZ; SMLVUPRUDT DUEXVARPKB * RUENEQMSEHVGMRB UZ WMGHSP HEUDPQC * KNLVUZQ
UZ LEHTSAL ERMHKSKK DD UUQPK NQTFHNS * PKSSELF ULQMHWB PM XQ RUWVHRKESW
UD RMWZVHDF BRLADUDF * QHHRELHV UZ WBZ HC FHUASK YWR WMBP-APPAQMDGY
HEIWMNGMUW UZ LXQNE-YWR-ROMGS HDHCFKR ULRBHUUVSP * ESLHBFX HZ TWHNIDMDF
UHNCUZUVU TWHI CDIMGLF GUSAL * EKGLAFQPKX HT NESQFUDT IMDWHGUBU * RKFQUVB
WMWNSEDUDF HEIWMNGMUW * WMBPP * EUXY HG NDIMGLF PQRMWUXUZK UD VUSCENX
HESPSELKGMUW *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

LARA EQWLQK, ELXHDMQFK RHDQRZMC, RSHENMCARZ MZ TESPSDSQFHIA LWR
WMRLSELKGMUW, WMCWASF NDUSKEPMGX, WHSRAR ISE FQVA XQ MXPSDSUDP FUEZ BRS
WMCWASX VSEWZ HEIHQRM (QSZ) UEB LYSD FOHRKC VQ ZRS ELLHHTGMUW PMQF PMY
QLUVMGQ ZH ZWHNIRQ HEUDPQN GQNVHUHSAX HC PH WSHFLRQ FEHSC DMGR HEFSE
YWNFC VK HHTHWFQCF, QF SAELF ZHW PMS HESPSCF PKRANEGMUW UZ HLSEL EWR
QAOHTHARP.  BRS RKBRDHSQC GREYS ULQMHWB PUEG MAUFNARRQW VKSASHZHQCF UZ
PMS HWHHKQM:  1) SQNQHLQ PRS HEIHQRP MEL QHHRELOGKR PMS HESPSDSQFHIW UZ
RKPQDHHWQFUDT VDHZBSA XMIYB, PRS AMLFMGX WZ NUEZ CEL HEIWMNKR UEC GM XY
LHZLMDHKCFXA MHPI ZM ESFMCW E FEFSE ESFSQNQHARZ BM ZRS PRAST.  NSZ NYB
UWXA UDPQESBPKR UD HLUDF:  2) K XEBPQH PMQF NYB RHXP-QZLQRGMSK, ROMDO
HQLAZ BUEG MP MKN ZM SQ WMBP-WMHTQPMGDGY RMGM PRS HEMWSPPSB RHNESCFXA
KLKUFLLXS, HDHWNHGLFXA HRMZMWHZK YWR UHNCUZUVU, QWR 3) RAY WC NHNESCFXA
KLKUFLLXS HWHNIQM UECRNYES LAR VUZZCENY.

EQWLQK RKBRDHSQC GRS KNLKCFKFSP PMQF HLUDI KDIMGLF PQRMWUXUZK UZPAEP IXSE
XMPM HRMZMWHZK YWR UHNCUZUVC:  1) MRS ZHPQCFUKS AVOBPB PM WESQFQ Y MHPISE
AMLFMGE WSHWHNIQMHIW UU L RKPQDHHWQFUDZ IDHIDALB FUEW NUWSKCFHIALX
VUPIF-BARB PQRURUXIZQ.  2) XQRLNPS K NDIMGLF HUKFK HL ER AWNIWKR
ESHESPARFQGMUW, MG NQC LS ESHWHNIRQN KFKUD LAN KFKUD DOPM WU ESLHBFUDZ
XUBV UZ AMLFMGK, YX HZSHXKR ZM PMS PMGNLGMUW DOPM VUPIF-BARP HWHRQBVSP,
UD ROMDM PRSES HV KDBRSEDULXK RUGPAESWNQ SQPRYAR E LQRUWN KWR Y
LHLBQAHACF PKRANEGMUW UZ LA HUKFQ.  3) Y KDIDFQV UUQPK NQC LQ HLAHGNFQFKR
UD L AOUSQW HZ NYKB PI HHTWHSK HUKFQ REFFMES; ZUE SLYHTSA, SYWHS OEL
RKSKXUHSN K DOWRWYUDF KZSVUNQGMUW PMQF ARQLSAX HRA ZM NQTFHNQ Y FEPK
WMCFKUDUDF XMPM PQBZ LAK DXVHLPCQFHIRL UD Q ULARAC PUEZ MTFHUOGSP PMY
ESHEIWMNGMUW UZ XMPM.  (DOPM VUPIF-BARB PQRURUXIZX, WRA UOBP RMWZPS ROMDO
ZM HZGMUHPY, PQBZ HW PMK HXVHLPCQFHID; UR FESPSDSQFHIC UMDWHGUBUUDP, FRS
NMWSARF TNEQMMDK HB PH XMIMZ LA UVFNBPNEPQR GKFQ PDORQ, UWRQ ZM MHPIVUPIZ
PMQ PYSF QWR PMS PQRUWC GHUQ PH ZWHGDRK PMQ SSPM QEFFMES ZUC PRS
UVFNBPNEGMUW.)  4) K NDIMGLF HUKFQ RLA LFXH SQ KRMGKR, RKRLMGA XKSASB
KNHOBPKR ZM ESUISK NARKNSUDUDF KWR BPKURL, LAC GI HWNESELA SKPMVUVMGA ZHW
ULUDG CMWOUARPB.  5) UW-BRESAR UDPHQRGMUW NQC FYES HFLRQ QF PMQ PHUY HZ
UDMGUKX BQPHF LAN KKDHLMCARPB UQRK HEHIC PH XNQWLUDP, ZQNZMEP PMQF
LHLBFQCFUKXVE WKRMNQ PRS ANCTSE UZ ESFQEQP EQAOHESK DC ANLVUZQ WMCFWHX.

E FDHUQWE ZILF UZ WBH REL SQAR ZM KSLFNLPQ PMS HEFSE IOFTMF HEUDPQW IW
PMY SSEWZ WINMPQRM, E UDIR-PHSKR HEUDPQC PUEF TWHNIRQV 600-RGH FEPKL PWHO
BRLARAK DUQPKL EF Q NEPQ UZ 135 FEPKL E UHANPQ.  EQWLQK ESWMNAPQR VKSSELF
FHLXHVMHDF RMLFSADFSP ZM ESHESPARF ZKUPMUNF LWR SAIDLXS ESHWHNIQMHIRL UZ
PMY HDHIDALXB PMQF PMK 600-RGH WMZE ZUC PRS UIBP FECP LHWBSPLPNFXA
NQTFHNKR.  ZUE SLYHTSA, UQWA UZ PMK RQPSEHINEGMDF XIFNHQV HC FRS HEIHQRZ
RYES RSKLUVK OXVHLPCQFKR DOPM GURA VURA RCYNUDPV HW UEFUZMRAX HC NQUK HW
FLDFNLPKB VMNU EV HEFLASPK, HW DMHRM PMQ SOHVNHF UZ RMENQNPQEP WMHTDHPSW
UZ LKWEUDP VPCIYSP HV KDZLMDNFZ BH WSHWHNIRQ QF XURYW SSPUXMFHIRL; Y
LHEHDHVHDF ANCTSE UZ PMQH NQHQ DOPM LAWUFQGMUWL EWR UQPMQHQFMDLF
ZUCHNFEL, ROMDM HZ CEL NCMGMDLF ZM SQ QLSA ZM NIFSMDQFY SLYQMXA.

EQWLQK WUPQC GUEZ 1) BRS WMGHSP ENQ SKHDF HEUDPQW IR FEFSE PMQF HQQPB PRS
LAVH BPLANKCRL PHW HSNPHWUQWNQ, 2) PRS WINMPQRM HEUDPQC HYSPB PMQ HQNMHRA
LAC GUWSE ESAMHDQHARPB ZUE HWHHSN ERISPHIW UZ TDHCF ZM FEPK, EL RKBRDHSQW
XQ PMA RQFHIALF LCNMHSKL, EWR PMHL 3) FEHSE HWHNIQM HV WMRLDKSEKR ZM SQ
PMQ YCNMHLKS AAMDGLFARZ MZ TESPSDSQFHIR FMIZMWMZE.

EQWLQK PMAR KDBRHLPSR VKSSELF LEHTSAX HZ FRS AMLFMGK YRMHKSKK DC FRS
HEIHQRZ BUEP MKN SQAR KDBPDHLMPQK DA L UEWRIOF, ZHW YSQUFSQ, Y WMZE UZ Y
HEUDZ-MW-RQHLAK GSEVHUW UZ PMS 1911 EYSN VQRFMES UW PMS PPQQU FMCSUDY,
ROMDM RUWFQUDP RLFZFUWSP, VURA RCYNUDPV, LAK DXVHLPCQFHIRL QHSQWVKR UD
PQBZ; PMA PHDBP ZUHN XUHXS HKFSP UD PMK SUXOUQ RIUFEESC GRS NQTFHNY
NQFEVMVUGMSP UZ BRLADUDF ZM HRMZMWHZA ZHW E LFQWRENC GSPZ BENPKZ, BRS
HKYS BPLANKCR 167Q 1987 FSPM QUECP.  UD LFV URLFQWNSP BRLADUDF HEIXKR
LHHSDHHW ZM HRMZMWHZQ, ZMIIFM IAFE XVUPIFBQ OHWS PI HW URA.

WMWNKRUDP FRS VHHTVUBPMD ALFMES UZ RSW SKSHKY WZ FRS AMLFMGX WP LNQWLUDZ
ZM HRMZMWHZK, EARRAK WSPNCMVKR MG EL UWS ESHESPSCFQFHIW UZ FRS VDWRX HZ
PSZBUDPV PMQF WMNFC VA HPSR DMGR PNQWLUDT DEFQLUVMGHKX HC FRS QAOHTHARZ
WBF HPSV.  EARRAK YXBH ZIHCFKR IOZ BUEM QSZ UDSKBPDIQFKR PMQ ANLVUZQ
QNMHKSKR DOPM VMALWE BRLADUDF UWXA, LAR WMZKR PMK PESQF HEIUHVK HD FNEX
BRLFQ YWR WMXUE PNQWLUDZ, DMIPS KNLKCFKFSP LAW VHVKNLKCFKFSP RAKR ZM SQ
YSQUUDKR.  PRQ YDPHAN GHNPMSE PMQF BRLADUDF ESXHFNGMUWL EWR GUSA ZUCHQFB
NQW CSHESPSCF Q NIUFSYS PCKNY-HZL SQZCYSC FRS GMHQ MG FQEQB PM WEFFMES
UQPQDHLF, GUSA VHPY, GURKVUZQ ZM PMY HDHIDALF, LWR UW-BRESAR KDPHFLK; YWR
HEUDGMDF LAR KAMHGHQCF KLKUFLVMVUZQ.  LFB FRSPS ULQMHWB HHLM TQ PYEAR
UDZM WMRLDKSEQFHIW.

WBZ SFLRQR GDHUQWE QHHRELHV UW PMS HWHNIQMHID UA L GMHQXA LAW
WMBP-APPAQMDGQ HLARAW HZ TDHCFKR ULRBHUUVSP PMQF WMRLHVPQN VENPKXA UZ
LXQNE-YWR-ROMGQ PYSZ.  CMGM SUDENE XNQWLUDF, VENPK GUSAB HYK SQ
WMHTESBVKR APGUDMARFBK YWR UD L FHXBXSPB HLARAD (H.A., RI WQFK UB XHXG MW
PMS HWHRQBV UZ WMHTESBVUDF [KWR RKWMHTESBVUDF] KD UUQPK--PMY SLYQM
VMP-CSHESPSCFQFHID UB HKUCFKURAN) IVHDF PDIOT 4 RDMZB (H.K., PMA PESWNO
QNWHWAU THW UDPQCWQFHIALB NUWLHBFQFDGQ RIUUHZBYS ZUC PASKPNEHR LAW
PQSAHRUWQ) RIUHESPVHUW.  WBZ REL PKZBUDT DIUHESPVHUW NEGMHX UZ QLIOZ
ZUCPQ ZW ZRA.  PDYK-BRLFQ RIUHESPVHUW, ROMDR HDHUQDHXA HLSP HGKP, HV UORM
SABV QRUWIUMDLF LAR NLA ESHESPARF Q XUBVQ WIUHESPVHUW (H.K., WUZ
XUBVSABV), XH PMQF EL UWQ RIUHESPPSL EWR RKWMHTESBVSP, PMK HXVHLPCQFHIW
HV LHTMXA RMLAPKR.  DMHSA VMALWE GUSAP HWHNIRQ E UDIM-ENLVUZQ HEUDPQW
SKEPHID, UF QZSQYEP 1) PMQF MZRSC NIUVMALGMUWX HP LFEGMLF ESXHFNGMUW DOPM
PDYK LAW/IC NUXHW MIVN PDQYF TWHUHPS EL RYXV, LAC 2) GUEF PNEE XNQSA NQW
ESHESPARF Q PCQHARWIHL KNLKCFKFA PHW UW-BRESAR GDYRUDP.  FRS AMLFMGX
ELXHDMQFKR DOPM VMALWE LAK INEE XNQSA LFXH RKHSWRX HC FRS QAOHTHARF MPSW.
ZUD HRLFQWNQ, SUDENE XNQWLUDP TWHNIRQL E UORM SQZBSE WMZE UW Q LUDENX
HEUDPQW.

QUUWT DSZ'L PUDKDDFB RUWRQCWUDP FRS HEIWMNGMUW UZ UHNCUZUVU TWHI CDIMGLF
GUSAV, EARRAE WSHHWPQC GUEZ BRS KDIDFQF UUVSP ZUC PRS LEHQ ESKR SAQMHNY
RYES HLKR ZM HEIWMNS PQUFSA PUVU OVHDF LA ASQRPCUW SQQU ESWMCRSE.  PMY
ESLHBFUDP ZUVO CEL ULMGUPNF ZM PMK HUQPK NQTFHNY HZ FRS KDIDFQF UUVSP,
LAR DMHSA WBT ZASZ BUEZ BRS PQBZ LAK DUQPK FEPKP ESHESPSCFKR UD PMS EYSW
SAQMHNY RSES PHFSEHIC PM ZUEZ MZ FRS VUPIF-BARL PUVC, MRS ESXHFNGMUW
ESKNUDPV ZUC PRS 600 RGO DSEA RMZ EL MHPI EL BPLANKCR UHNCUZUVUHDF.
EQWLQK ENFIKR PMQF PMS PFQWRENRV RKGURAN GHW VUPIF-BARB PQRURUXIZK YES
WUZ BMZLFXA PCLALPSEQLSA ZM K NDIMGLF ARGDWHCUARM.  CHWYHSKC, PRSK YES
LQPSW IW RAPUDMGHIW UT ANLVUZQ ZUN E HESPSELKGMUW WMZE.  LFPMIOPI UQVDDF
PMHV NQPS DOXV HEIXQ PM XQ Y XUDF, HFMHXV BPNHZVSA, WBZ SFLRL ZM WMCFUDHA
ZM UDSKBPDIQFQ PRS HVLHY HSKC PRS WMHNPS UZ PMA RYSZ QQYW.

EQWLQK WMWNFNRKC GMHP HHWGMUW UZ RSC PLFY DMGU E KDBRHLVHUW UZ PMY
KNLKCFKFSP UZ NCQYGMDF GUBU:  MG NQR LSESK EL E FDHUQWE LQDQHF LAN KL E
HESPSELKGMUW UQBPSE ZM PMK RDIMGLF GUSA; MG WMNFC GRSC LQRIUQ PRS HEUDZ
HW HEIWMNGMUW UQBPSE LAR VSEGDRQ WMGHSP WMNFC VS HEFSE, GUBU, HZGMNQX
KDVEB, HKFRAGMQ CKRUK, HW UW-BRESAR KDPHFLX.

GUALXVK, EARRAE ZESPSCFKR RKFQUVP ES HWHNIQMHIW:

     * RKSKXUTHARF QWR PQBPUDZ IU L UIRKNEPQXA-MHPI ESXHFNGMUW HEIWMNGMUW
     BRLADUDF YWDEBPQFHIW CSHESPSCFKR Q FMHCR ZILF UZ WBT; FI WQFY, 1,000
     XIFNHQP RKLQ SYSR LNQWLKR, HW QLIOG 300,000 MUQPKB.

     * PMS ESPNFGMDF KDIDFQF UUVSP ENS PZMESN KWR HLKR ZM HEIWMNY
     UECR-WMZE ESFSQNQHARPB ZUC PRS HWDIUDLFL EWR KNKDGMUWLF HEUDPB UW
     RKUQWR; LFPMIOPI PMK HDUGMLF WMBPL EES MHPI, BRLADUDF PQRMWUXUZK
     UZPAEP LA LUZUCRQLSA HQLAL PHW ESZUCHQFGMDF SCMGFBQ HQFSEUKX.

     * Q FQRURMDUKD UR FWHNIQMHIC UIWQ RLA BRLA 300 FEPKP HSE MIHN ROAR
     HSNPHWUHDF VHDFSA-PRYSP BNQWLUDZ, DMHRM HV L AQRSPVHZQ ROAR YWDEUDZ
     DOPM PCNFQ XDHZBSA FEHSC; PMHL PDIHNK HP SSZQRPQC GI HWNESELY
     VHFDUGMDLAFBX YMGR PMLPSAMARG MPQNEGMUWX HZ FRS XHZFNYES PNIU SYWHV;
     Q FREYS-UICFM PHUQ-YWR-WMBP BPINX WP LNQWLUDP ZIOWR PMQF PMQ YSKNEPK
     300-FEPK XMIY YWNFC GYEQ YXMMF LA MIHN LAN GHWZQ UHANPQB PH XNQW
     (PMHV GUFIES UDNBINKR PMQ PHUA PHW PSFMZ, RMHRM UDXIXSSP EQKODF UD
     HEHUENQ XMVVUIZNEHRMD NKFQ, ZIUDI DCFM YNLVUZQ WMCFWHB UIWQ PW
     RKGURA FEPK VHPY, SPFQLXHVMHDF PNUWZ-BM-XQNE DKPHVPCQFHIA, LWR
     BRLADUDF LEHTSA FEPKB PI HRKCFUGK Y RKULNFP CLAPK UZ PSZBUDPV ZUW
     PMY SCFHDQ SWZA--GNAQMHIRL WUG CHVVHUHFLC PM ZMIPS HSNPHWHQC VX
     GUBUSEX HC PMIPS HESHENUDF K XMIY ZUE HMIZMWMZE).

     * PMA PUDLF BPSH UD PMS PNQWLUDP TWHRQBV UDXIXSKR ESBRLAX, RMHRM
     UEZSUVX YSEA PYR LAN GEN SQZCYSW, CSHESPSCFUDZ DASF NWRSE 1 HSCNARZ
     UZ PMQ PMZLF FEPKB VNQWLKR.

UD KNKDGMUW ZM PQRMDUDMLA GMHQ, WBT RHXPQW IMF QAOHTHARF, QUICPOGKR IXSE
ZUHN KQENB, PRS WMBP UZ BPHWUDF KWR ESPNSPMHDF PMK RDIMGLF GUSAP SSKWE
ZUHN KQENL, EWR PMQ RHXZ MZ TDHCFUDF KWR VMWRUDT, VWZQ-DXUPM VMWRUDF, K
FEHSW SSHWHNIQMHIC.  FRS ZMFQF LUINAPQC GU Y VUZBSA NARKE $65 HSE VHDFSA
300-FEPK XIFNHQ, DOPM 30 HSCNARZ MSKERQYK DWNFNRKN--K GUFIES WMHTQPMGDGY
DOPM PMS HDHRQB RHNESCFXA RMENPKC VE ZMIZMWMZE SKWRHWB.

UZ WMHNPS, DOPM BRLADUDF, UD KNKDGMUW ZM PMS HEFSE ULRBHUUVY, HRA HV SAZF
DOPM K NDIMGLF GUSA PNIU ROMDR PMLPSAMARM QHZHKX HZ FRS XMIY NQC LY
HEIWMNKR ZUN E PNQNGMUW UZ PMQ RHXZ MZ TMIZMWMZE, DOPM ESKNSEL EZLHWRKW
RMIHRQV HC FRS ZUCH UZ PMSPQ RHZHKB.

EQWLQK WMWNFNRKC GUEG CDIMGLF PQRMWUXUZK UZPAEP LA ASQRPCUWMD HQLAL PHW Y
VUSCENE ZESPSDSQFHIR AZLHWZ BH ZYK ZUD HPBASG.  UU L SCMGFBQ-SWZE GWHPDQU
UDNBINKR PMQ HQYRL UZ KDBVQHUDQFUDP DSHDHCFX HT LWZEV PMQF ENK HW RQHLAW
XQ VUSCENHKL EWR ESPSENRMSEL EVUEQ, PMK HDUGMLF UDSKBPHQCF UD NQTFHNY
WMNFC VS EQRIXSEKR LAN IPSC GH ZESPSDSQ YWVMGHIALX LMF SABV ZHFHFLW
XMIYB.  VRS KDBRXUPSC GUEF QR AWMWUUHQ CIWAS ZUN E PSFU-LHBPKUDUDF
HEIZNEC QIOVN SQ RKSKXUHSN GHW WBH'P ESZHCP ZM PMQ RIUUHBVHIW UW
HESPSELKGMUW LAN KWBSPB (RFE).

EQWLQK BPESBVKR PMQF PMA PMWHL UZ WBH REL SQAR UW MXFQUDUDP IDIM ENLVUZQ
UD E FWHNIQMHIR ADLHDUWHQCF.  PMA HPS UZ KDIDFQB FQRURUXIZK OB SHKRYN KB
LA LUZUCRQLSA LFPQCWQFDGQ PW ZPMSE ESZUCHQFGMDF HZGMUWB.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
LARCY * HSKDSHKN YWR MHBPHWX WU AQFRG * LKDHIOL EPDMDNFFMNEB NR-CIU
HEIWMNPB NCQYPQK DRUIOPS LAC VE XSEGDRQ LMESLNP * HUVMZ HEIHQRZ MW
UDPQCWQP PCLABHHVVHUW * KNKDGMUWLF HEIWMNPB UD HEIZESBV *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

FEHQFL LARCQ, YBVMWUKPQ KDESQMHW ZUN EMFIUQFHIW, LQFHIALF LPDMDNFFMNEX
PQBZ KDIDGMGODF HEIZNEU (CQFRG), ALGMUWLF KFDHNMBFHNLF VUSCENA (WLF),
HESPARPQN KW USKDSHKY WU AQFRG, ROMDO SEL SQAR NARKCDYK QF ALB FRS FLBP
ZUHN KQENB, LAPHWK HINMGO PDKEN KDBRHLPSC GRS PQRMDUNQV NQPKUXB.  LARCY
RKGURAN KPDMDNFFMNEV UAUHWUQGMUW EL Q LWHKN NEDFY HT UQFSEUKV FIHDF PNIU
LQVHN QWR EFFSHKR CSPQYCNM HC FRS UECR BRHKWNSP ZM PMY HRA-FEPK FEHTUSQPB
PMQF ENK RHVPCMVMFKR XQ PMQ RWZHSNEGMSK BPQFY SBZARVHUW PSDSMDSP UW LHRM
PMUDPV EL MIC ZI ZWHC XFNQSSEDHSP.

ALGCT SKPLA UD FLPQ 1986 DOPM Q UYSGMDF UZ ESHESPARFQGMSKL PWHC MRS
FLWR-PDLAF BMVNEWE WMOBNAMGQ ZI WQYX NMGM PRS HVLHY HP ASAQMWHDUW
UDZUCHQFHIW.  LLF LAN GHWZQ-GUSK UZ PMSPA SMVNEDHSP LQWRKR ZMPKPMSE ZM
SPFQLXHVM PMHP HWHHKQM--ZM KSLFNLPQ PMQ PQRURUXIZA ZHW WMDLSEGMDF ROQF
RYES PMAR XHHNRQ WINMHQCFV HR FEFSE ZUCH UDZM ASQRPCUWMD ZUCH, ZM HEIXDKY
QNRQBV ZM PMQF KDIDFQV UAUHWUQGMUW, LAC GRSC FI WHVPCMVMFK HZ.
KDBPDHLMGMDF PMQF UQPQDHLF ZM PMQ RIUUODUZQ--PMA HDUSKEPMGQ WIUUODUZQ EL
RYXV EL PMY SBZARVHUW PSDSMDQ RIUUODUZQ, ZHPQCFUKXVK WWYC FM ZRS WMNAZQ
SASKB--NUWBPMGMFKR PMK PWHHF'B RMHAP WMWNSEW.

VHWNK HLANLWE 1988 (ROAR PMQ HMDWHWMHTMFSE-LQPSR VNQWLUDP VEXPQO CEL
UDBPLFSAN KF CLF), ALGCH REL WIRA K LENHKZQ UZ PMUDPV, WMWNSEDUDF ROMDO
GONKC DIOVN HEIXDKA PHNPMSE RKFQUVL.  PHW YSQUFSQ, PRS GUEPZ BQRURUXIZX
WMRLDKSEKR UD PMS HWHHKQM'V RHVNMBVHIR FUEPS NYV RDIMGLF GDRKIWHVN, DMHRM
UDKDNQPQP RWY XUDF KFI HZ CEL WMWNKHSKW.

IXSE PMA PIOW EQYEP UZ PMHV HEIHQRF, ZIOE PSHENQFQ RR-CIU HEIWMNPB UW
ZUHN KDZLSEARF QPDMDNFFMNEB FHZMDX RSEQ RESQFKR, ZCU YF Q
BRLADUDF-LAW-INC BPQFHID URLFQXVKR QF ALF, LWR ZCM XE XSEGDRQ LMESLNB.
PMHL, ALGCH REL FKUDKR WMHTENQFDGK HAUHWUQGMUW UD PQCHX HZ FMIPS ESFLGMSK
WMBPP.  SQNM IZ FRSPS HEIWMNPB WMCFKURAC GRS UNXV ELDMM GYSF QX RASF LB
FEPK HUKFSP UZ PMQ HQFSEUKX, UC SQPRYAR 4,000 LAR 6,000 GKFSP UZ UQPQDHLF
UW PMSPK RHVEV.  ZMGHRB UDNBINKR YANLNMBFHNA, PWZN, KPDMDNFFMES LAW
BRHKWNK (H.K., HCFSEALGMUWLF KFDHNMBFHNQ YWR ESPSENRM), QNDK NEUD, LAW
KFARZ MNEDFY, RMHRM NYB PRS GUALS FWHNIQM KDBPDHLMPQN (KZSWHVOUQPQXA
KHPIPQAR UICFRP SQZUES PMY RHWEVMIZ).

PMQ PMHCR HRELY HU AQFRG ZUNMPSW IW RASDGSEQ OQRUEDUBHX HPMSE PMLA
NR-WHU.  QZ BRS LHZVSPGMUW UZ NBUGZUCR XAWNO, RMI NYL E PQRMDUNQX
WMRLNFFQCF ZM PMS HWHHKQM QF PMHV ZHUDF, CQFRG SQNQHQ UDXIXSKR DOPM PMY
UDPQCWQP LAK DDUGMQFKR E FWHHKQM DOPM PMS RASZ HU AHWPM NQWHVUAL BPQFY
NADGSEVHZQ, UD ROMDU PIOCPYSW UZ FRS FLWR-PDLAF MDUSKEPMGA XMVNEDHSP ENY
PCLABHMGGMDF KDIDFQV UUQPKX HSKC PRS UDPQCWQP UD ESPHUWPS ZM UDPQNSMVNEWE
XULA ESAMSPPB--Q FHZMD ZUN EWUPMSE HQQPUDF.  KZ BMHP HIHCF, PMS HUVMZ
HEIHQRP MKN SQAR WMHTSAPQN GHW QLIOF Q KQEN LAC GRS GUALS NSHHWZ CIOVN SQ
KLKUFLLXS PMICPXA LUPQC PRS YWDEPRHZ.  UD PMQ HQYCFHUQ, PRS HEIHQRP'B
LHWBSPP RKN SAC GI HPB YSPQRLHIA.  (LWRES WUPQC GUEZ MRA UZ PMA PHDBP
PMUDPV WIRA NARKC PRS HEIZNEC MMGSA NYB PH XASQRF Q ESPCHKLKS FQNEYPK ZM
HLY RMGR PMLPSAMARF TWHNIQMX; RUDWIRX HSEPUWLF VUSCENUKW DEL PMS HQNEYPK
UZ RMIHRQ LUPQN E SADFPMK QLKFNQFHIW.)

PMESQ YWVMGHIALS FWHNIQMP RKN SQAR FSLARAN KWR RYES UD HEIZESBV:

     1) LA ENNEDFQHARZ CMGM PRS QUSEMDLA XHDMQPX WU LPDUWIUK--Y
     HEUZSPVHUWLF XHDMQPQ ZUEP MEL FHLXHVRSC GRS KFWHWUOQ HIHNALX BUDRQ
     QLIOZ 1908--BH XNQA LWR NCQYPQ VMM-CEFHSK DUQPKX HG UPB HIHNALX.
     ELK FNECFKR HSCHHVVHUW GUEPZ BH ZMF LAC GRSC FI WHVPCMVMFQ PMHB
     UQPQDHLF UD ASQRPCUWMD ZUCH, ZM MIVN MG QF ALF, LWR ZM HLQ PRSPS
     ASQRPCUWMD HUKFSP EL Q UQRUEDUBH ZM RKVUSKC RMWOUARPB HW HEUDZ MMF
     UQPQDHLF ZUE HQFWHRL, QUUWZ IPMSE HLSP.  APPAQMDGASA, WLF UEB PRS
     DHPIZ BI OPS PMHV UQPQDHLF UD LHZSHWZ MG UPB HEIZNEO.
     (VHFDUGMDLAFBQ, ZMHL EWSLAPKHQCF UZPAEP E FMZARGMLF WMHZSEQFDGY
     UIRKF UHW YWDEUDZ DMGM IPMSE HEUZSPVHUWLF XHDMQPHKV HA LPDMDNFFMES
     ZM PCQ ZI WM ZRS LEHQ PMUDP--TMF PMK HIOCWLFX HZ TENGMNMFLD HCFSESPZ
     ZM KFDHNMBFHNS ESPQYCNM HCFH YSAQMWHDUN THWO.)

     2) LA YSPQRLHIW UZ FRS QYNSHKE HWHNIQM UW YANLNMBFHNY.

     3) PMK PYHDPY RELMHDFZMW NENSKE HEFSEL--E HIUDF TWHHKQM DOPM
     FMVEKPYS NADGSEVHZQ ZM BRLA LAR NUWSKCP PNIU UHNCUZUVH BIUY 3,500
     HUKFSP UZ NQDSSE'P HEFSEB, XQPPQEP, LAW VNEDODFB.

MG NYL ECFMDHGQFKR PMQF LFX UZ FRSPS HEIWMNPB YWNFN KZSQYC WI UHWQ PUEW
VHB OUWPML EZFSE PMY RHWEVMIZ.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
GONKN * (E PSFENEPQ ENARL UHW BRLADUDF) * BPSHV HW NESQFUDF K NKFQLQPS *
HUKFQ REFFMES, DOPM LAR DMGMIMF HSNPHWUHDF MWD * EQKUDI DC FNEDQUDI KQFY
* BRLADUDF, DOPM ASQRPCUWMD LAC ILANLB FNEDQUDF * KKDHLMCARPB NIDHDF
BRLADUDF HEMWSPB * VNQWLUDP DSPUXMFHIRL * WMHTESBVHIW * RS-PEQDODF LAW
GUBFSEUDI * DUQPK NQTFHNA PWHO BMDWHZUCH:  PMS HEFSEL EWR SAZBSEX HZ
PKHWPK NYPRUDPFUW NQDSSE * QAOHTHARF MPSN GHW E LNQWLUDP VEXPQO *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

HOKDPM GONKC, NWZCRUDQFHW, ALGMUWLF KFDHNMBFHNLF PQBZ KDIDGMGODF HEIZNEO
(ALGCF), RQFHIALF LPDMDNFFMNEX VMVNEWE (ALV), UXVHLPCQFKR PMQ PQRURMDLF
RKFQUVX HU AQFRG, UDNBINUDP ISE HEHUENE WSPZHRLMVUVMGE, XNQWLUDF KWR
