actually actively recommended for all cases, except that one document
one's source.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN agreed with BESSER about this trade-off:  all the
projects in a set of twenty TEI-conformant projects will not necessarily
tag the material in the same way.  One result of the TEI will be that the
easiest problems will be solved--those dealing with the external form of
the information; but the problem that is hardest in interchange is that
one is not encoding what another wants, and vice versa.  Thus, after
the adoption of a common notation, the differences in the underlying
conceptions of what is interesting about texts become more visible.
The success of a standard like the TEI will lie in the ability of
the recipient of interchanged texts to use some of what it contains
and to add the information that was not encoded that one wants, in a
layered way, so that texts can be gradually enriched and one does not
have to put in everything all at once.  Hence, having a well-behaved
markup scheme is important.

STEVENS followed up on the paradoxical analogy that BESSER alluded to in
the example of the MARC records, namely, the formats that are the same
except that they are different.  STEVENS drew a parallel between
document-type definitions and MARC records for books and serials and maps,
where one has a tagging structure and there is a text-interchange.
STEVENS opined that the producers of the information will set the terms
for the standard (i.e., develop document-type definitions for the users
of their products), creating a situation that will be problematical for
an institution like the Library of Congress, which will have to deal with
the DTDs in the event that a multiplicity of them develops.  Thus,
numerous people are seeking a standard but cannot find the tag set that
will be acceptable to them and their clients.  SPERBERG-McQUEEN agreed
with this view, and said that the situation was in a way worse:  attempting
to unify arbitrary DTDs resembled attempting to unify a MARC record with a
bibliographic record done according to the Prussian instructions.
According to STEVENS, this situation occurred very early in the process.

WATERS recalled from early discussions on Project Open Book the concern
of many people that merely by producing images, POB was not really
enhancing intellectual access to the material.  Nevertheless, not wishing
to overemphasize the opposition between imaging and full text, WATERS
stated that POB views getting the images as a first step toward possibly
converting to full text through character recognition, if the technology
is appropriate.  WATERS also emphasized that encoding is involved even
with a set of images.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN agreed with WATERS that one can create an SGML document
consisting wholly of images.  At first sight, organizing graphic images
with an SGML document may not seem to offer great advantages, but the
advantages of the scheme WATERS described would be precisely that
ability to move into something that is more of a multimedia document:
a combination of transcribed text and page images.  WEIBEL concurred in
this judgment, offering evidence from Project ADAPT, where a page is
divided into text elements and graphic elements, and in fact the text
elements are organized by columns and lines.  These lines may be used as
the basis for distributing documents in a network environment.  As one
develops software intelligent enough to recognize what those elements
are, it makes sense to apply SGML to an image initially, that may, in
fact, ultimately become more and more text, either through OCR or edited
OCR or even just through keying.  For WATERS, the labor of composing the
document and saying this set of documents or this set of images belongs
to this document constitutes a significant investment.

WEIBEL also made the point that the AAP tag sets, while not excessively
prescriptive, offer a common starting point; they do not define the
structure of the documents, though.  They have some recommendations about
DTDs one could use as examples, but they do just suggest tag sets.   For
example, the CORE project attempts to use the AAP markup as much as
possible, but there are clearly areas where structure must be added.
That in no way contradicts the use of AAP tag sets.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN noted that the TEI prepared a long working paper early
on about the AAP tag set and what it lacked that the TEI thought it
needed, and a fairly long critique of the naming conventions, which has
led to a very different style of naming in the TEI.  He stressed the
importance of the opposition between prescriptive markup, the kind that a
publisher or anybody can do when producing documents de novo, and
descriptive markup, in which one has to take what the text carrier
provides.  In these particular tag sets it is easy to overemphasize this
opposition, because the AAP tag set is extremely flexible.  Even if one
just used the DTDs, they allow almost anything to appear almost anywhere.

                                 ******

SESSION VI.  COPYRIGHT ISSUES

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
PETERS * Several cautions concerning copyright in an electronic
environment * Review of copyright law in the United States * The notion
of the public good and the desirability of incentives to promote it *
What copyright protects * Works not protected by copyright * The rights
of copyright holders * Publishers' concerns in today's electronic
environment * Compulsory licenses * The price of copyright in a digital
medium and the need for cooperation * Additional clarifications *  Rough
justice oftentimes the outcome in numerous copyright matters * Copyright
in an electronic society * Copyright law always only sets up the
boundaries; anything can be changed by contract *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Marybeth PETERS, policy planning adviser to the Register of Copyrights,
Library of Congress,   made several general comments and then opened the
floor to discussion of subjects of interest to the audience.

Having attended several sessions in an effort to gain a sense of what
people did and where copyright would affect their lives, PETERS expressed
the following cautions:

     * If one takes and converts materials and puts them in new forms,
     then, from a copyright point of view, one is creating something and
     will receive some rights.

     * However, if what one is converting already exists, a question
     immediately arises about the status of the materials in question.

     * Putting something in the public domain in the United States offers
     some freedom from anxiety, but distributing it throughout the world
     on a network is another matter, even if one has put it in the public
     domain in the United States.  Re foreign laws, very frequently a
     work can be in the public domain in the United States but protected
     in other countries.  Thus, one must consider all of the places a
     work may reach, lest one unwittingly become liable to being faced
     with a suit for copyright infringement, or at least a letter
     demanding discussion of what one is doing.

PETERS reviewed copyright law in the United States.  The U.S.
Constitution effectively states that Congress has the power to enact
copyright laws for two purposes:  1) to encourage the creation and
dissemination of intellectual works for the good of society as a whole;
and, significantly, 2) to give creators and those who package and
disseminate materials the economic rewards that are due them.

Congress strives to strike a balance, which at times can become an
emotional issue.  The United States has never accepted the notion of the
natural right of an author so much as it has accepted the notion of the
public good and the desirability of incentives to promote it.  This state
of affairs, however, has created strains on the international level and
is the reason for several of the differences in the laws that we have.
Today the United States protects almost every kind of work that can be
called an expression of an author.  The standard for gaining copyright
protection is simply originality.  This is a low standard and means that
a work is not copied from something else, as well as shows a certain
minimal amount of authorship.  One can also acquire copyright protection
for making a new version of preexisting material, provided it manifests
some spark of creativity.

However, copyright does not protect ideas, methods, systems--only the way
that one expresses those things.  Nor does copyright protect anything
that is mechanical, anything that does not involve choice, or criteria
concerning whether or not one should do a thing.  For example, the
results of a process called declicking, in which one mechanically removes
impure sounds from old recordings, are not copyrightable.  On the other
hand, the choice to record a song digitally and to increase the sound of
violins or to bring up the tympani constitutes the results of conversion
that are copyrightable.  Moreover, if a work is protected by copyright in
the United States, one generally needs the permission of the copyright
owner to convert it.  Normally, who will own the new--that is, converted-
-material is a matter of contract.  In the absence of a contract, the
person who creates the new material is the author and owner.  But people
do not generally think about the copyright implications until after the
fact.  PETERS stressed the need when dealing with copyrighted works to
think about copyright in advance.  One's bargaining power is much greater
up front than it is down the road.

PETERS next discussed works not protected by copyright, for example, any
work done by a federal employee as part of his or her official duties is
in the public domain in the United States.  The issue is not wholly free
of doubt concerning whether or not the work is in the public domain
outside the United States.  Other materials in the public domain include:
any works published more than seventy-five years ago, and any work
published in the United States more than twenty-eight years ago, whose
copyright was not renewed.  In talking about the new technology and
putting material in a digital form to send all over the world, PETERS
cautioned, one must keep in mind that while the rights may not be an
issue in the United States, they may be in different parts of the world,
where most countries previously employed a copyright term of the life of
the author plus fifty years.

PETERS next reviewed the economics of copyright holding.  Simply,
economic rights are the rights to control the reproduction of a work in
any form.  They belong to the author, or in the case of a work made for
hire, the employer.  The second right, which is critical to conversion,
is the right to change a work.  The right to make new versions is perhaps
one of the most significant rights of authors, particularly in an
electronic world.  The third right is the right to publish the work and
the right to disseminate it, something that everyone who deals in an
electronic medium needs to know.  The basic rule is if a copy is sold,
all rights of distribution are extinguished with the sale of that copy.
The key is that it must be sold.  A number of companies overcome this
obstacle by leasing or renting their product.  These companies argue that
if the material is rented or leased and not sold, they control the uses
of a work.  The fourth right, and one very important in a digital world,
is a right of public performance, which means the right to show the work
sequentially.  For example, copyright owners control the showing of a
CD-ROM product in a public place such as a public library.  The reverse
side of public performance is something called the right of public
display.  Moral rights also exist, which at the federal level apply only
to very limited visual works of art, but in theory may apply under
contract and other principles.  Moral rights may include the right of an
author to have his or her name on a work, the right of attribution, and
the right to object to distortion or mutilation--the right of integrity.

The way copyright law is worded gives much latitude to activities such as
preservation; to use of material for scholarly and research purposes when
the user does not make multiple copies; and to the generation of
facsimile copies of unpublished works by libraries for themselves and
other libraries.  But the law does not allow anyone to become the
distributor of the product for the entire world.  In today's electronic
environment, publishers are extremely concerned that the entire world is
networked and can obtain the information desired from a single copy in a
single library.  Hence, if there is to be only one sale, which publishers
may choose to live with, they will obtain their money in other ways, for
example, from access and use.  Hence, the development of site licenses
and other kinds of agreements to cover what publishers believe they
should be compensated for.  Any solution that the United States takes
today has to consider the international arena.

Noting that the United States is a member of the Berne Convention and
subscribes to its provisions, PETERS described the permissions process.
She also defined compulsory licenses.  A compulsory license, of which the
United States has had a few, builds into the law the right to use a work
subject to certain terms and conditions.  In the international arena,
however, the ability to use compulsory licenses is extremely limited.
Thus, clearinghouses and other collectives comprise one option that has
succeeded in providing for use of a work.  Often overlooked when one
begins to use copyrighted material and put products together is how
expensive the permissions process and managing it is.  According to
PETERS, the price of copyright in a digital medium, whatever solution is
worked out, will include managing and assembling the database.  She
strongly recommended that publishers and librarians or people with
various backgrounds cooperate to work out administratively feasible
systems, in order to produce better results.

In the lengthy question-and-answer period that followed PETERS's
presentation, the following points emerged:

     * The Copyright Office maintains that anything mechanical and
     totally exhaustive probably is not protected.  In the event that
     what an individual did in developing potentially copyrightable
     material is not understood, the Copyright Office will ask about the
     creative choices the applicant chose to make or not to make.  As a
     practical matter, if one believes she or he has made enough of those
     choices, that person has a right to assert a copyright and someone
     else must assert that the work is not copyrightable.  The more
     mechanical, the more automatic, a thing is, the less likely it is to
     be copyrightable.

     * Nearly aFS FMIZMPDEFRP ENK RYSHQC GM XQ RHZEWDIMPQLSA, LMF CW ZRA
     YWWSHKL EXMMF PMQH UORM, SQNQHLY SSKWEUWK HL PESQ PM ZYEQ PRS LEHQ
     HUKFQ.  PMOL, E HRMZIZNEHRMD WMZEDHPIP CSHESPSCFX RUEG MB RLFSAN K
     "PMUD" WMZEDHPIZ.  BRS HRMZIZNEHR MGPSFU UOBP SQ NIFSMDQFKR, UD
     HWRKN PHW WMZEDHPIZ BM XK SHIFLPQW.

     * PMQ RHZEWDIMP UZGURQ FQEQB PRS ZHVHGMUW PMQF S-WYKL EES WUZ
     WMZEDHPIFQLXQ SQRLNPS PMQK ENQ HQRUEDUNQV.  UM  QLA SQ ENFIKR
     ROQPRSW HC WMZ HUKFY SRULARQHQCF UD BRLADUDF NQC LS HWHPQQMKR.  UWY
     UOBP YSSEDMPS NQES DOPM UQPQDHLF NCQYPQR DMGR HMLVUN TNARV LAW
     PKRANEXVK OC FRS FHLXMD WIUQUD.  LA ENGMNBY RDHZBAR XQ L UKRSELF
     QHFSWXYS, UG DCMGPQA LP HENZ MZ UZLMDUKV NMFHKV, HL RMZ
     WMZEDHPIFQLXS.  RWYKSSE, WMCFWHX USKN E BRHKCFUGMD ENGMNBY RDHZBAR
     XQ L AQFHIALV URLGMFMPQX HP UQYBFI PNECFYS (H.K., XHHQUWY RMI
     ESRQDGSP UIRAA ZWHC MRS H.L. ZISKCWHQCF), RKHSWRX HW LHM ZHVUWQ.  UG
     PMK PIXSECUARF QPKWNE OEL WU ZHVUWQ (LAC GUEF TUXMDQ WLA SQ
     WMCFKURAK DD UPB ESFIFLGMUWB, PRS WMCFNEQM, HW PMK PNECF), PMY
     LNPMHW ESFQUDB RHZEWDIMP.  UG E FWHGDVHUW UZ PMQ RUWPCQNF, PNECF, HW
     ESFIFLGMUW BPQFSP PMQF PMSEY RUVX LA RM WHZEWDIMP, PMAR MG WISP WUZ
     YSHVZ.  CRSA L YWDE HV NCQYPQR, NHZEWDIMP LNZMUQGMNQXVQ WIUSP UDZM
     YSHVPQWNA HAFSPB VIUQPMHDF YSHVPB PMQF LEEX MG WISP WUZ.

     * LA ARUEWNKR ASQRPCUWMD WMZE UZ E FDHCF WMZE UZ LA UXRKW SAPSEARRQ
     YWDE UD PMS HMLVUN RIUKUC FUEG CHYL RMZ WMCFKUW NHZEWDIMPQLSA RAY
     UQPQDHLF HV E FHNASQ OQRUEDUNQS NARKDGMUW UZ PMY HDHIDALX NHWE, YWR
     HV WUM QHZEWDIMPQLSA.

     * HLNLXVX, YRSA L YWDE ARPQEP PMS HMLVUN RIUKUW, LMZMHDF NQW CQHIXY
