     several other universities.  The project has been funded primarily
     by the Annenberg/CPB Project, as well as by Harvard University,
     Apple Computer, and others.  It is published by Yale University
     Press.  Perseus runs on Macintosh computers, under the HyperCard
     program.

Eric CALALUCA

Chadwyck-Healey embarked last year on two distinct yet related full-text
humanities database projects.

The English Poetry Full-Text Database and the Patrologia Latina Database
represent new approaches to linguistic research resources.  The size and
complexity of the projects present problems for electronic publishers,
but surmountable ones if they remain abreast of the latest possibilities
in data capture and retrieval software techniques.

The issues which required address prior to the commencement of the
projects were legion:

     1.   Editorial selection (or exclusion) of materials in each
          database

     2.   Deciding whether or not to incorporate a normative encoding
          structure into the databases?
               A.  If one is selected, should it be SGML?
               B.  If SGML, then the TEI?

     3.   Deliver as CD-ROM, magnetic tape, or both?

     4.   Can one produce retrieval software advanced enough for the
          postdoctoral linguist, yet accessible enough for unattended
          general use?  Should one try?

     5.   Re fair and liberal networking policies, what are the risks to
          an electronic publisher?

     6.   How does the emergence of national and international education
          networks affect the use and viability of research projects
          requiring high investment?  Do the new European Community
          directives concerning database protection necessitate two
          distinct publishing projects, one for North America and one for
          overseas?

From new notions of "scholarly fair use" to the future of optical media,
virtually every issue related to electronic publishing was aired.  The
result is two projects which have been constructed to provide the quality
research resources with the fewest encumbrances to use by teachers and
private scholars.

Dorothy TWOHIG

In spring 1988 the editors of the papers of George Washington, John
Adams, Thomas Jefferson, James Madison, and Benjamin Franklin were
approached by classics scholar David Packard on behalf of the Packard
Humanities Foundation with a proposal to produce a CD-ROM edition of the
complete papers of each of the Founding Fathers.  This electronic edition
will supplement the published volumes, making the documents widely
available to students and researchers at reasonable cost.  We estimate
that our CD-ROM edition of Washington's Papers will be substantially
completed within the next two years and ready for publication.  Within
the next ten years or so, similar CD-ROM editions of the Franklin, Adams,
Jefferson, and Madison papers also will be available.  At the Library of
Congress's session on technology, I would like to discuss not only the
experience of the Washington Papers in producing the CD-ROM edition, but
the impact technology has had on these major editorial projects.
Already, we are editing our volumes with an eye to the material that will
be readily available in the CD-ROM edition.  The completed electronic
edition will provide immense possibilities for the searching of documents
for information in a way never possible before.  The kind of technical
innovations that are currently available and on the drawing board will
soon revolutionize historical research and the production of historical
documents.  Unfortunately, much of this new technology is not being used
in the planning stages of historical projects, simply because many
historians are aware only in the vaguest way of its existence.  At least
two major new historical editing projects are considering microfilm
editions, simply because they are not aware of the possibilities of
electronic alternatives and the advantages of the new technology in terms
of flexibility and research potential compared to microfilm.  In fact,
too many of us in history and literature are still at the stage of
struggling with our PCs.  There are many historical editorial projects in
progress presently, and an equal number of literary projects.  While the
two fields have somewhat different approaches to textual editing, there
are ways in which electronic technology can be of service to both.

Since few of the editors involved in the Founding Fathers CD-ROM editions
are technical experts in any sense, I hope to point out in my discussion
of our experience how many of these electronic innovations can be used
successfully by scholars who are novices in the world of new technology.
One of the major concerns of the sponsors of the multitude of new
scholarly editions is the limited audience reached by the published
volumes.  Most of these editions are being published in small quantities
and the publishers' price for them puts them out of the reach not only of
individual scholars but of most public libraries and all but the largest
educational institutions.  However, little attention is being given to
ways in which technology can bypass conventional publication to make
historical and literary documents more widely available.

What attracted us most to the CD-ROM edition of The Papers of George
Washington was the fact that David Packard's aim was to make a complete
edition of all of the 135,000 documents we have collected available in an
inexpensive format that would be placed in public libraries, small
colleges, and even high schools.  This would provide an audience far
beyond our present 1,000-copy, $45 published edition.  Since the CD-ROM
edition will carry none of the explanatory annotation that appears in the
published volumes, we also feel that the use of the CD-ROM will lead many
researchers to seek out the published volumes.

In addition to ignorance of new technical advances, I have found that too
many editors--and historians and literary scholars--are resistant and
even hostile to suggestions that electronic technology may enhance their
work.  I intend to discuss some of the arguments traditionalists are
advancing to resist technology, ranging from distrust of the speed with
which it changes (we are already wondering what is out there that is
better than CD-ROM) to suspicion of the technical language used to
describe electronic developments.

Maria LEBRON

The Online Journal of Current Clinical Trials, a joint venture of the
American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) and the Online
Computer Library Center, Inc. (OCLC), is the first peer-reviewed journal
to provide full text, tabular material, and line illustrations on line.
This presentation will discuss the genesis and start-up period of the
journal.  Topics of discussion will include historical overview,
day-to-day management of the editorial peer review, and manuscript
tagging and publication.  A demonstration of the journal and its features
will accompany the presentation.

Lynne PERSONIUS

Cornell University Library, Cornell Information Technologies, and Xerox
Corporation, with the support of the Commission on Preservation and
Access, and Sun Microsystems, Inc., have been collaborating in a project
to test a prototype system for recording brittle books as digital images
and producing, on demand, high-quality archival paper replacements.  The
project goes beyond that, however, to investigate some of the issues
surrounding scanning, storing, retrieving, and providing access to
digital images in a network environment.

The Joint Study in Digital Preservation began in January 1990.  Xerox
provided the College Library Access and Storage System (CLASS) software,
a prototype 600-dots-per-inch (dpi) scanner, and the hardware necessary
to support network printing on the DocuTech printer housed in Cornell's
Computing and Communications Center (CCC).

The Cornell staff using the hardware and software became an integral part
of the development and testing process for enhancements to the CLASS
software system.  The collaborative nature of this relationship is
resulting in a system that is specifically tailored to the preservation
application.

A digital library of 1,000 volumes (or approximately 300,000 images) has
been created and is stored on an optical jukebox that resides in CCC.
The library includes a collection of select mathematics monographs that
provides mathematics faculty with an opportunity to use the electronic
library.  The remaining volumes were chosen for the library to test the
various capabilities of the scanning system.

One project objective is to provide users of the Cornell library and the
library staff with the ability to request facsimiles of digitized images
or to retrieve the actual electronic image for browsing.  A prototype
viewing workstation has been created by Xerox, with input into the design
by a committee of Cornell librarians and computer professionals.  This
will allow us to experiment with patron access to the images that make up
the digital library.  The viewing station provides search, retrieval, and
(ultimately) printing functions with enhancements to facilitate
navigation through multiple documents.

Cornell currently is working to extend access to the digital library to
readers using workstations from their offices.  This year is devoted to
the development of a network resident image conversion and delivery
server, and client software that will support readers who use Apple
Macintosh computers, IBM windows platforms, and Sun workstations.
Equipment for this development was provided by Sun Microsystems with
support from the Commission on Preservation and Access.

During the show-and-tell session of the Workshop on Electronic Texts, a
prototype view station will be demonstrated.  In addition, a display of
original library books that have been digitized will be available for
review with associated printed copies for comparison.  The fifteen-minute
overview of the project will include a slide presentation that
constitutes a "tour" of the preservation digitizing process.

The final network-connected version of the viewing station will provide
library users with another mechanism for accessing the digital library,
and will also provide the capability of viewing images directly.  This
will not require special software, although a powerful computer with good
graphics will be needed.

The Joint Study in Digital Preservation has generated a great deal of
interest in the library community.  Unfortunately, or perhaps
fortunately, this project serves to raise a vast number of other issues
surrounding the use of digital technology for the preservation and use of
deteriorating library materials, which subsequent projects will need to
examine.  Much work remains.

SESSION III

Howard BESSER                      Networking Multimedia Databases

What do we have to consider in building and distributing databases of
visual materials in a multi-user environment?  This presentation examines
a variety of concerns that need to be addressed before a multimedia
database can be set up in a networked environment.

In the past it has not been feasible to implement databases of visual
materials in shared-user environments because of technological barriers.
Each of the two basic models for multi-user multimedia databases has
posed its own problem.  The analog multimedia storage model (represented
by Project Athena's parallel analog and digital networks) has required an
incredibly complex (and expensive) infrastructure.  The economies of
scale that make multi-user setups cheaper per user served do not operate
in an environment that requires a computer workstation, videodisc player,
and two display devices for each user.

The digital multimedia storage model has required vast amounts of storage
space (as much as one gigabyte per thirty still images).  In the past the
cost of such a large amount of storage space made this model a
prohibitive choice as well.  But plunging storage costs are finally
making this second alternative viable.

If storage no longer poses such an impediment, what do we need to
consider in building digitally stored multi-user databases of visual
materials?  This presentation will examine the networking and
telecommunication constraints that must be overcome before such databases
can become commonplace and useful to a large number of people.

The key problem is the vast size of multimedia documents, and how this
affects not only storage but telecommunications transmission time.
Anything slower than T-1 speed is impractical for files of 1 megabyte or
larger (which is likely to be small for a multimedia document).  For
instance, even on a 56 Kb line it would take three minutes to transfer a
1-megabyte file.  And these figures assume ideal circumstances, and do
not take into consideration other users contending for network bandwidth,
disk access time, or the time needed for remote display.  Current common
telephone transmission rates would be completely impractical; few users
would be willing to wait the hour necessary to transmit a single image at
2400 baud.

This necessitates compression, which itself raises a number of other
issues.  In order to decrease file sizes significantly, we must employ
lossy compression algorithms.  But how much quality can we afford to
lose?  To date there has been only one significant study done of
image-quality needs for a particular user group, and this study did not
look at loss resulting from compression.  Only after identifying
image-quality needs can we begin to address storage and network bandwidth
needs.

Experience with X-Windows-based applications (such as Imagequery, the
University of California at Berkeley image database) demonstrates the
utility of a client-server topology, but also points to the limitation of
current software for a distributed environment.  For example,
applications like Imagequery can incorporate compression, but current X
implementations do not permit decompression at the end user's
workstation.  Such decompression at the host computer alleviates storage
capacity problems while doing nothing to address problems of
telecommunications bandwidth.

We need to examine the effects on network through-put of moving
multimedia documents around on a network.  We need to examine various
topologies that will help us avoid bottlenecks around servers and
gateways.  Experience with applications such as these raise still broader
questions. How closely is the multimedia document tied to the software
for viewing it?  Can it be accessed and viewed from other applications?
Experience with the MARC format (and more recently with the Z39.50
protocols) shows how useful it can be to store documents in a form in
which they can be accessed by a variety of application software.

Finally, from an intellectual-access standpoint, we need to address the
issue of providing access to these multimedia documents in
interdisciplinary environments.  We need to examine terminology and
indexing strategies that will allow us to provide access to this material
in a cross-disciplinary way.

Ronald LARSEN            Directions in High-Performance Networking for
                         Libraries

The pace at which computing technology has advanced over the past forty
years shows no sign of abating.  Roughly speaking, each five-year period
has yielded an order-of-magnitude improvement in price and performance of
computing equipment.  No fundamental hurdles are likely to prevent this
pace from continuing for at least the next decade.  It is only in the
past five years, though, that computing has become ubiquitous in
libraries, affecting all staff and patrons, directly or indirectly.

During these same five years, communications rates on the Internet, the
principal academic computing network, have grown from 56 kbps to 1.5
Mbps, and the NSFNet backbone is now running 45 Mbps.  Over the next five
years, communication rates on the backbone are expected to exceed 1 Gbps.
Growth in both the population of network users and the volume of network
traffic  has continued to grow geometrically, at rates approaching 15
percent per month.  This flood of capacity and use, likened by some to
"drinking from a firehose,"  creates immense opportunities and challenges
for libraries.  Libraries must anticipate the future implications of this
technology, participate in its development, and deploy it to ensure
access to the world's information resources.

The infrastructure for the information age is being put in place.
Libraries face strategic decisions about their role in the development,
deployment, and use of this infrastructure.  The emerging infrastructure
is much more than computers and communication lines.  It is more than the
ability to compute at a remote site, send electronic mail to a peer
across the country, or move a file from one library to another.  The next
five years will witness substantial development of the information
infrastructure of the network.

In order to provide appropriate leadership, library professionals must
have a fundamental understanding of and appreciation for computer
networking, from local area networks to the National Research and
Education Network (NREN).  This presentation addresses these
fundamentals, and how they relate to libraries today and in the near
future.

Edwin BROWNRIGG               Electronic Library Visions and Realities

The electronic library has been a vision desired by many--and rejected by
some--since Vannevar Bush coined the term memex to describe an automated,
intelligent, personal information system.  Variations on this vision have
included Ted Nelson's Xanadau, Alan Kay's Dynabook, and Lancaster's
"paperless library," with the most recent incarnation being the
"Knowledge Navigator" described by John Scully of Apple.  But the reality
of library service has been less visionary and the leap to the electronic
library has eluded universities, publishers, and information technology
files.

The Memex Research Institute (MemRI), an independent, nonprofit research
and development organization, has created an Electronic Library Program
of shared research and development in order to make the collective vision
more concrete.  The program is working toward the creation of large,
indexed publicly available electronic image collections of published
documents in academic, special, and public libraries.  This strategic
plan is the result of the first stage of the program, which has been an
investigation of the information technologies available to support such
an effort, the economic parameters of electronic service compared to
traditional library operations, and the business and political factors
affecting the shift from print distribution to electronic networked
access.

The strategic plan envisions a combination of publicly searchable access
databases, image (and text) document collections stored on network "file
servers," local and remote network access, and an intellectual property
managemenF-WMCFWHX BEXPQC.  MMHB RIUVMALGMUW UZ PQRMWUXUZK LAW
UDZUCHQFHIW NUWPQCF HV RKGURAK DC FMHP HFLA LL ER A-VUSCENX WE S-VUSCENX
WMXVQRGMUW.  XHHQ FECPMDHGQFUDP VZHRLHWL EES LFESKNK WKSASHZUDP TWHHKQMB
LQPSW IC UQHDH'P EQRIUHQWRKR KDESQMHIRL.

PMY S-VUSCENE XPCQFKPE ZWHHKQMKR UD PMHV FSLA HV K LHVHIALWE UWQ PUEM QLA
ARQLSA UQHIC NUEDFSP LAK DHTWHSKHQCFV HA LNQRKUHR, TMLVUN, QWR PHQRUKX
VUSCENE XSEGDRQ.  PMHV GDVHUW HV, PMIOPI, UWQ PUEM QLA SQ ESLFOGKR DOPM
ZMNKE'X PQRMWUXUZK.  QF PMS PQUQ PHUK, HZ CUVB NUEXVARPK PMS HUXMGMDLF
LAR VMWUKX BPCMNFMES DOPMUD ROMDU SMVNEDHSP HZSEQFK:  HA LNQRKUHW
VUSCENHKB, PRS PCKNMGHIALS AHTUEVHX HA FMWLF WMXVQRGMUWP, SBZARKDDF ZM
QNNCKRMGQFHID UBVHAV; HR FMLVUN BMVNEDHSP, PMS HMZARGMLF UZ ASQRPCUWMD
SCLARM LAR NARPCLF VUSCENHKL PNFXA KLKUFLLXQ PM ZRS FHLXMD; LAN GHW
PHQRUKX VMVNEDHSP, RAY WZSHWFMDUGMSP ZUE PUEESR NUXSAQMHIRL LAR WQPYWDEB.

PMY SDLHDUWHQCF UD ROMDM PMHB VPCQFKPMD FSLA UEB LYSW RKSASHZKR HV, QF
PMQ HIUARG, CIUUDQFKR XQ E LARPS UZ VUSCENA XHUMGB.  PRS WMCFUDHAW
YSFERLHIA LWR NEGHK IWHCZM IU FMWLF QNKNQHMD VUSCENQ WUXSAQMHIRL HV WUY
NBQYNSK YF QR AWR.  WMEHHWQFA SMVNEDHSP, LAR KSKA FYN VUSCENHKL, EES
ULRQR DMGM IHSNEGMDF DOPMUD K NUGGUNMBF QRUWIUMD NBHUQFQ, YX RASF LX RMGO
SKWE QNGMSK WMHTQPMGHIA UWHC QIUHQCNUKV UAUHWUQGMUW XHHNRQL.  PHW
YSQUFSS, HMLVUN BMVNEDHSP UQQ XS PYSA LL E RKVHNELXQ SMF WUM QDHGMNQX
UODUDMFEX BSEGDRQ UD Q FHUY RRSC FRS LMKIQPX HP LLUQPK YWR RSLFPM
KFARDMSP ENQ SKHDF NMM TQNY.

UNCPRSN, SMVNEDHSP UD PKRANES UKLQ Y SKWE MHPI FLXMC-PM-WHXP CQFHI UD
PMKHC SINPKPB, LAN VQLHW WMBPL EES BPUVV UWNESELUDF, DMZDOPMBPLAKDDF
LNZMUQGMUW UDSKBPHQCFV.  HG MV RUGGUNMBF ZUN SMVNEDHSP ZM MXFQUD NQGHFQX,
BPENFMZ, HE PYSN GNAKDDF ZUD HWLIXQFDGQ YQMDGMGHKL, EWR PMHXY
PQRMWUXUZK-UDPQRLDGK HDUGMQFDGSP PMQF UZPAC PRS ZHPQCFUKX UG NQRESELKR
FLXMC NHXPB NQR FWHXIEQ PMY HZSHXMGHIW UU FMVNEWE BPLUZ.

MIRYSKN, SMVNEDHSP UESK QNMHKSKR XHHQ WMRLDKSEQLSA LHWBSPPSV HC FRS FEBP
ZCI WQRKNSP XQ HUHEIXUDT VMZM PRSHD PSDSMDQ YWR PMKHC NESKDVMVUZQ DOPMUD
PMKHW HDPLAOGQFHIRL--LAC GRSPS ZHVHGMSK RMLAPKP RKLQ SYSA LWBIUFSHVRSW
UIBPXA DOPM HOKDDMIOL HPS UZ UDZUCHQFHIC FQRURUXIZHKB.  PRS KNLKWNSP UD
WMHTMFUDF KWR UDZUCHQFHIC FQRURUXIZE OKLQ SYSW DASB-NREUWMDSAC:  GRS
WMCFUDOHDF HEQRHGMGIOV RWHG HW NIUFHGMDF WMBPB, PRS PDWYPM UZ PMY
UDPQCWQP LAR GDHLKPQ RAZCHWEV, LAC GRS YSFSHXDGK HWNESELK HR FMLVUNBX
KLKUFLLXK HAUHWUQGMUW NKFQLQPSB.

ZUE SLYHTSA, MWBN UEB LQRIUY HRA UZ PMA SENPKBP WMHTMFSE RAZCHWY
HWFKDUFYGMUWV HC FRS YWNSC VQ WESQFUDF K WMHZSEQFDGQ RQFLFIZUDF DQPYWDE
UZ UIES PMLA 6,000 VUSCENHKX RHWVNDORK.  UW-VURA FHLXMD QNRQBV NQFQXUPV
WUR XSESK UHXVHIRL UZ HLSEX HC UHWQ PUEW 50,000 RKRMDQFKR PQCHUDLFV HW
PMA HDUPQR VFQPQL EXURA.  PMA HDUSKEPMGX WT NLFUGHWDUQ UASXKX UA-FUDY
NQFQXUP VEXPQU MEL WUR YSZLARKK DCFU YD UWRYS NKFQLQPS ESPAESWNS PSEGDRQ
LAR VHFZHCPB HHWQ PUER LOV UHXVHIR LQYCNRSL E KQEN.  LAN, VMVNEDHSP UESK
SQWMHQ PMA SENPKBP PDIOZ HT NHLZMHQEP UZ NR-WHH TMLVUPRUDP FQRURUXIZX;
UIES PMLA 30,000 HZGMNQB UKRUK FHLXMDQFHIRL LHRM EL PMHXY HZLSEKR XQ
UDZUPCQN LAR VUVSKE HFLZBSE ENS PMLBRDHSQC GM XA O.B. XMVNEDHSP.

PMHV UQCNM IZ FQRURUXIZQ WUWGMANSP LAK DC FRS RABZ RKNQRK DOXV ESLHBF UD
UNCPRSD HWLIXQFHIRL PMQF ENY SBZESHQXA KDZLMDNFZ BH ZESKDQM.  ROQF HV
NBQYD HB PUEF BMVNEDHSP NQW LWY ZI SQXWWR LNZMUQGMUW UZ PMKHW HCRSE GUSAB
LAR NQFLFIZB PU YMFIUQFHIW UZ FRSHD WMXVQRGMUWB PRSHBASSKL--EWR MG HV
ZHBVMVSA ZM DMCNOUSKCF PMA PHVNQX VHUMGQFHIRL PMQF EFHSEN ZM MXFQUD
ZMNKX.

PMHV ASQRPCUWMD VUSCENE XPCQFKPMD FSLA ESWMOBARRV E FENKNDIH BMHZF UD
VUSCENE XSEGDRQ, LAW VQHUWBPNEPQB PRS BPSHL RQRSPLEWE ZM HEIXDKK HHTWHSKW
VUSCENE XSEGDRQX RMGU SHUMGKR NQFEDMGMSP LAW IHSNEGMDF UDSKBPHQCFB.

PSBVHID UL-K

LARA EQWLQK

PMQ RHWRAXV/SYWHV OIHCF BPINK OW RDIMGLF HESPSELKGMUW ESLHBFKR UD PMY
ESWMCRUDZ IT 1,000 LDHZBSA XMIYL EV 600-RGH KDIDFQV UUQPKL EWR PMY
HEIWMNGMUW, UW RKUQWR, UZ MHPI-AMLFMGK YWR ENRMDGLFXA XHNAR GEFSE
ESFSQNQHARPB.  PMS HWHHKQM, ROMDO REL LHZSHWPQC VQ ZRS WMOBHVVHUW UW
HESPSELKGMUW LAN KWBSPL, EXBI HDLSPGMFKPQR VIUY HZ FRS HVLHSP LHWSIOWRUDZ
BRLADUDF, BPHWUDP, DQPDHKSUDF, KWR HEIXDKUDF KWBSPB PI WDIMGLF HUKFSP UD
L AQPYWDE ARGDWHCUARZ.

LARA EQWLQK DOXV ZUNMX HR LIUY HZ FRS HVLHSP LHWSIOWRUDI KHDQRP BNQWLUDZ
EL DKARGMGUKR UD PMQ RHWRAXV SYWHS ZWHHKQM.  QUUWP FMIPS ZM SQ KDBRHLPSW
ENK:  HUQPK SKEPHL PQBZ NQTFHNK; HWRYSUDF KWR QNRQBV; HUKFQ-REFFMES
NQFEVMVUGMSP; Q NIUFEDHXHC FH ZMIZMWMZE LAC IMDWHGUBU; HEIWMNGMUW LAW
WMBP LALFEXHV; BPHWKFA PHWUQPB, HEMZMWUXL, EWR BPLANKCRL; EWR PMA HPS UZ
PMHV BRLADUDF PQRMWUXUZK ZUE HESPSDSQFHIR FHNZHPSB.

PMK 600-RGH KDIDFQV UUQPKP HWHNIRQK DC FRS WMCWASX VSEWZ HEIHQRF TWHSKW
MHPIXA QNRQTFQLSA ZUC NESQFUDP TEFSE ESFSQNQHARPB UZ RKPQDHHWQFUDZ
HWDIUDLFB.  PRS 1,000 BRLARAK GUXOUSP HEIXDKKR LA ENNEX WG UUQPK-NQTFHNY
