am now?  That'll be a comfort, one way--never to be an old woman-
-but then--always to have lessons to learn!  Oh, I shouldn't like
THAT!'

  `Oh, you foolish Alice!' she answered herself.  `How can you
learn lessons in here?  Why, there's hardly room for YOU, and no
room at all for any lesson-books!'

  And so she went on, taking first one side and then the other,
and making quite a conversation of it altogether; but after a few
minutes she heard a voice outside, and stopped to listen.

  `Mary Ann!  Mary Ann!' said the voice.  `Fetch me my gloves
this moment!'  Then came a little pattering of feet on the
stairs.  Alice knew it was the Rabbit coming to look for her, and
she trembled till she shook the house, quite forgetting that she
was now about a thousand times as large as the Rabbit, and had no
reason to be afraid of it.

  Presently the Rabbit came up to the door, and tried to open it;
but, as the door opened inwards, and Alice's elbow was pressed
hard against it, that attempt proved a failure.  Alice heard it
say to itself `Then I'll go round and get in at the window.'

  `THAT you won't' thought Alice, and, after waiting till she
fancied she heard the Rabbit just under the window, she suddenly
spread out her hand, and made a snatch in the air.  She did not
get hold of anything, but she heard a little shriek and a fall,
and a crash of broken glass, from which she concluded that it was
just possible it had fallen into a cucumber-frame, or something
of the sort.

  Next came an angry voice--the Rabbit's--`Pat! Pat!  Where are
you?'  And then a voice she had never heard before, `Sure then
I'm here!  Digging for apples, yer honour!'

  `Digging for apples, indeed!' said the Rabbit angrily.  `Here!
Come and help me out of THIS!'  (Sounds of more broken glass.)

  `Now tell me, Pat, what's that in the window?'

  `Sure, it's an arm, yer honour!'  (He pronounced it `arrum.')

  `An arm, you goose!   Who ever saw one that size?  Why, it
fills the whole window!'

  `Sure, it does, yer honour:  but it's an arm for all that.'

  `Well, it's got no business there, at any rate:  go and take it
away!'

  There was a long silence after this, and Alice could only hear
whispers now and then; such as, `Sure, I don't like it, yer
honour, at all, at all!'  `Do as I tell you, you coward!' and at
last she spread out her hand again, and made another snatch in
the air.  This time there were TWO little shrieks, and more
sounds of broken glass.  `What a number of cucumber-frames there
must be!' thought Alice.  `I wonder what they'll do next!  As for
pulling me out of the window, I only wish they COULD!  I'm sure I
don't want to stay in here any longer!'

  She waited for some time without hearing anything more:  at
last came a rumbling of little cartwheels, and the sound of a
good many voice all talking together:  she made out the words:
`Where's the other ladder?--Why, I hadn't to bring but one;
Bill's got the other--Bill! fetch it here, lad!--Here, put 'em up
at this corner--No, tie 'em together first--they don't reach half
high enough yet--Oh! they'll do well enough; don't be particular-
-Here, Bill! catch hold of this rope--Will the roof bear?--Mind
that loose slate--Oh, it's coming down!  Heads below!' (a loud
crash)--`Now, who did that?--It was Bill, I fancy--Who's to go
down the chimney?--Nay, I shan't! YOU do it!--That I won't,
then!--Bill's to go down--Here, Bill! the master says you're to
go down the chimney!'

  `Oh! So Bill's got to come down the chimney, has he?' said
Alice to herself.  `Shy, they seem to put everything upon Bill!
I wouldn't be in Bill's place for a good deal:  this fireplace is
narrow, to be sure; but I THINK I can kick a little!'

  She drew her foot as far down the chimney as she could, and
waited till she heard a little animal (she couldn't guess of what
sort it was) scratching and scrambling about in the chimney close
above her:  then, saying to herself `This is Bill,' she gave one
sharp kick, and waited to see what would happen next.

  The first thing she heard was a general chorus of `There goes
Bill!' then the Rabbit's voice along--`Catch him, you by the
hedge!' then silence, and then another confusion of voices--`Hold
up his head--Brandy now--Don't choke him--How was it, old fellow?
What happened to you?  Tell us all about it!'

  Last came a little feeble, squeaking voice, (`That's Bill,'
thought Alice,) `Well, I hardly know--No more, thank ye; I'm
better now--but I'm a deal too flustered to tell you--all I know
is, something comes at me like a Jack-in-the-box, and up I goes
like a sky-rocket!'

  `So you did, old fellow!' said the others.

  `We must burn the house down!' said the Rabbit's voice; and
Alice called out as loud as she could, `If you do.  I'll set
Dinah at you!'

  There was a dead silence instantly, and Alice thought to
herself, `I wonder what they WILL do next!  If they had any
sense, they'd take the roof off.'  After a minute or two, they
began moving about again, and Alice heard the Rabbit say, `A
barrowful will do, to begin with.'

  `A barrowful of WHAT?' thought Alice; but she had not long to
doubt, for the next moment a shower of little pebbles came
rattling in at the window, and some of them hit her in the face.
`I'll put a stop to this,' she said to herself, and shouted out,
`You'd better not do that again!' which produced another dead
silence.

  Alice noticed with some surprise that the pebbles were all
turning into little cakes as they lay WC FRS UFWZN, EWR Q LDHPIZ
DKQY NQHQ UDZM RSE RQYK.  `DG U QYZ MRA UZ PMSPQ RYESP,' PRY
PMIOPIG, `MP'B LHES ZM UQEQ XHHQ RMLAPK UD OQ VHPY; LAN KV HZ
NQC'F ZHBVMVXA UQEQ HQ FLDPSE, MG UOBP UQEQ HQ BHLFSAD, H
LHZSHXY.'

  XH PRS PNYXVWYKR UWY HZ FRS NQEQL, EWR NYV RASDIMPKR ZM GUWR
PMQF PRQ SKPLA PRDHDAUDI KHDQRFBK.  YB VWZA LB VRS NYB VUQXV
ARIOPI ZM PKZ BREIOPI PMK RWZE, PRS NEW UMF UZ PMS RIOPS, LAW
ZUNAC KOHPQ Q NWHDR UZ VUZBSA LAHULFL EWR VMCRX RKUGMDF IOPBDKY.
PMS HWZN SMGFBA SOGENC, VUVX, NEL UD PMQ HDKNVQ, SKHDF RSVN HF XQ
ZCI ZOHRAE-FDIX, RMI RYES IDGDDF MG XHHQPMUDZ IMF UZ Q LMZFBY.
PMQK LFB UKNQ Y NHPR QF LFMDQ PRS UIHQCF PRQ YZSQYESC; VMF PRY
NEW UZL EL UECR EL PRQ RIOVN, LAR VWZA UIOWR RSEPASP LLUK HA L
PMMDY DWZW.

  `PMA PHDBP PMUDI D'SK ZIZ BI WH,' XKUN KVURQ ZM RSEPASU, LB VRS
NYWRSEKR QLIOG MC FRS YWIW, `HV ZM PDWY ZM OQ DHPIP BOGQ YFKUD;
LAC GRS PSWMWR PMUDI DB PU ZUDC IX YYK UDZM PMQF XUSKXA FKCRAR.
M GMHDA PMQF DOXV SQ PMQ SSPF TFLW.'

  MG XHNARKN KR ABWASSACF FSLA, WU WIMLF, QWR SKWE RAQFXA LAW
VHHTXA ENNEDFKR; PMY HAFK WUGGUNMBFX YEL, PMQF PRS RKN WUZ BRS
BHLFSABP DKQY MIC ZH XQP QLIOG MF; QWR ROUVS PRS NYP HYSDHDF
QLIOF QWLHIHLXA QUUWP FRS PCYSL, E VUZBSA PRENT SENV DHLZ MSKW
RSE RQYC IKNS RSE XUIY HF UD K FESQF MOWSX.

  LA ARHWUIHL FHZSX YEL XUIYUDI KWYA LP MSE DOPM FLDPS EIOWR
QKSP, LAN GYSLXE XPCQPRMUDZ IMF UWS HYN, PCKODF ZM ZMMNO SSE.
`ZHHW VUZBSA PMUDP!' VKUN KVURQ, UD Q NUYVODF ZMRA, LAR VRS PCHKW
UECR ZM ROHVFBQ PI HM; TMF PRY REL PQWSMVXA PNDIMPARKR LFB FRS
GMHQ QF PMQ PMIIFMP PMQF MG UHPIM TS RNAPDK, OW DMHRM NQPS MG
YWNFC VK SSEA XDVASQ ZH YQF RSN HG HR LGHPQ UZ LFS USE WMYLUDZ.

  UECRXA ADWYUDZ DUEP BRS KDR, VRS GHDQKR HF L FMGFBQ SMG UZ
BPMDE, YWR RSVN MG IOZ BM ZRS FHZSX; YRSESHFUW PMS HHFZE HOHTKR
UDZM PMQ YHD UZU LXV MGL PYSF QZ MWNY, RMGU E KQSF UZ RKVUPIZ,
LAR CHLRSN KZ BRS BPMDE, YWR UQRK SQVUKSQ PW YHWWE MG; PMAR LFMDY
WIKIKR SQMHWR K FESQF PMHVFBQ, PI YYSH RSEPSFU PNIU SQUDP DNA
IXSE; LAC GRS UIHQCF PRQ YZSQYESW IC FRS MZRSE PDKQ, PRS FHZSX
UQRK LAMZRSW SHLU EZ BRS BPMDE, YWR FMCTSAR IQYW ISKE RYSXB UD
MGP RHNWE ZM PKP MUXW IG UZ; BRSA LVURQ, PMUDVDDF MG NYB SSEX
VUEQ UEGDDF K FQUY HZ TFLX YMGU E NQCP-MIEPQ, YWR YSHSQMUDP KSKWE
UIHQCF ZM SQ PCQUFSKR NARKD HPB PAQP, NEW CIOWR PMQ PMHBPSA
KFKUC; FRSC FRS FHZSQ XKPLA E LSEHKX HP LMICP RMENPKL EZ BRS
BPMDE, DNADUDF K LSEA XMGFBY RYK ZUCDENRV QYRM GMHQ LAN K XUDF
NYQ XQNE, YWR LQDEUDP IUYEPASK YXV PMY RMHSA, GMXV QF FLBP MG LEZ
WIDW K FWZR DYK UZZ, TLAGMDF, DOPM MGB PUWFIS RLAIDDF IOZ MG UPB
UIMFU, EWR MGV PESQF QKSP UEFU PRMF.

  PMHV PSQHKR ZM LFMDQ Y ZIIW HZZHCPNAMGA ZHW UQVDDF RSE SBREFY;
XH PRS PQP UZU LZ MWNQ, YWR NEC FUVX BRS NYB EOHPQ GMESN KWR IOZ
UZ SCQYPM, LAC GUVB FRS FHZSE'X LQDE XHNARKC KOHPQ ULUDG MC FRS
KDBPLARQ.

  `LAW KQP ROQF K NQYN SMGFBS HHFZE MG NYB!' VKUN KVURQ, EL PRY
SALAF QFKUDBP Q LMFPQCNHF ZM ESBP RSEPASU, LWR ULWLKR RSEPASZ
DOPM UWY HZ FRS SAKLSP:  `H VMINFR IKLA SDVKR PQQNMHDF MG PCMDEV
SKWE UORM, UG--UG D'K UWXA SQAR PMS EDIMP VHPY ZM WI MG!  IM
RKEN!  D'K RAENXA ZUDPMZPQC FUEG M'SK ZIZ BI ZWHN OF EFKUD!  SAZ
HQ PSS--RWY HV MG ZM SQ UQALPKK?  D LHZSHXK H IOPIZ BH YQF HW
RCUDE VIUQPMHDF HW MZRSC; SMF PMK PESQF AMSPGMUW HV, ROQF?'

  PMK PESQF AMSPGMUW RQCPKUAFX YEL, ROQF?  LFMDA SWZEQN KXV WHNAW
RSN EZ BRS UFWYSEL EWR PMQ SFLRKX HZ PNEBV, LMP BRS KDR WMZ PSY
LAQZMHDF PMQF XUIYKR VUEQ PMS EDIMP PMUDP FH YQF HW RCUDA IWRSE
PMQ RHDNMHBFQWNSP.  PMSEY REL L FENPK UOPRWHIU PDWYUDF DQYE RSE,
QLIOZ BRS LEHQ RSDIMP EL RSEPASU; LWR ROAR PRS RKN XUIYKR NARKW
MG, LAW IC LMZR PDKSP UZ MG, LAC VSRUDK DG, MZ MWBHNESC GI MSE
PMQF PRQ HDIMP EL RYXV XUIY LAR VYS ROQF NYX HC FRS ZMZ HG UZ.

