
  `Well, it must be removed,' said the King very decidedly, and
he called the Queen, who was passing at the moment, `My dear!  I
wish you would have this cat removed!'

  The Queen had only one way of settling all difficulties, great
or small.  `Off with his head!' she said, without even looking
round.

  `I'll fetch the executioner myself,' said the King eagerly, and
he hurried off.

  Alice thought she might as well go back, and see how the game
was going on, as she heard the Queen's voice in the distance,
screaming with passion.  She had already heard her sentence three
of the players to be executed for having missed their turns, and
she did not like the look of things at all, as the game was in
such confusion that she never knew whether it was her turn or
not.  So she went in search of her hedgehog.

  The hedgehog was engaged in a fight with another hedgehog,
which seemed to Alice an excellent opportunity for croqueting one
of them with the other:  the only difficulty was, that her
flamingo was gone across to the other side of the garden, where
Alice could see it trying in a helpless sort of way to fly up
into a tree.

  By the time she had caught the flamingo and brought it back,
the fight was over, and both the hedgehogs were out of sight:
`but it doesn't matter much,' thought Alice, `as all the arches
are gone from this side of the ground.'  So she tucked it away
under her arm, that it might not escape again, and went back for
a little more conversation with her friend.

  When she got back to the Cheshire Cat, she was surprised to
find quite a large crowd collected round it:  there was a dispute
going on between the executioner, the King, and the Queen, who
were all talking at once, while all the rest were quite silent,
and looked very uncomfortable.

  The moment Alice appeared, she was appealed to by all three to
settle the question, and they repeated their arguments to her,
though, as they all spoke at once, she found it very hard indeed
to make out exactly what they said.

  The executioner's argument was, that you couldn't cut off a
head unless there was a body to cut it off from:  that he had
never had to do such a thing before, and he wasn't going to begin
at HIS time of life.

  The King's argument was, that anything that had a head could be
beheaded, and that you weren't to talk nonsense.

  The Queen's argument was, that if something wasn't done about
it in less than no time she'd have everybody executed, all round.
(It was this last remark that had made the whole party look so
grave and anxious.)

  Alice could think of nothing else to say but `It belongs to the
Duchess:  you'd better ask HER about it.'

  `She's in prison,' the Queen said to the executioner:  `fetch
her here.'  And the executioner went off like an arrow.

   The Cat's head began fading away the moment he was gone, and,
by the time he had come back with the Dutchess, it had entirely
disappeared; so the King and the executioner ran wildly up and
down looking for it, while the rest of the party went back to the game.



                           CHAPTER IX

                     The Mock Turtle's Story


  `You can't think how glad I am to see you again, you dear old
thing!' said the Duchess, as she tucked her arm affectionately
into Alice's, and they walked off together.

  Alice was very glad to find her in such a pleasant temper, and
thought to herself that perhaps it was only the pepper that had
made her so savage when they met in the kitchen.

  `When I'M a Duchess,' she said to herself, (not in a very
hopeful tone though), `I won't have any pepper in my kitchen AT
ALL.  Soup does very well without--Maybe it's always pepper that
makes people hot-tempered,' she went on, very much pleased at
having found out a new kind of rule, `and vinegar that makes them
sour--and camomile that makes them bitter--and--and barley-sugar
and such things that make children sweet-tempered.  I only wish
people knew that:  then they wouldn't be so stingy about it, you
know--'

  She had quite forgotten the Duchess by this time, and was a
little startled when she heard her voice close to her ear.
`You're thinking about something, my dear, and that makes you
forget to talk.  I can't tell you just now what the moral of that
is, but I shall remember it in a bit.'

  `Perhaps it hasn't one,' Alice ventured to remark.

  `Tut, tut, child!' said the Duchess.  `Everything's got a
moral, if only you can find it.'  And she squeezed herself up
closer to Alice's side as she spoke.

  Alice did not much like keeping so close to her:  first,
because the Duchess was VERY ugly; and secondly, because she was
exactly the right height to rest her chin upon Alice's shoulder,
and it was an uncomfortably sharp chin.  However, she did not
like to be rude, so she bore it as well as she could.

  `The game's going on rather better now,' she said, by way of
keeping up the conversation a little.

  `'Tis so,' said the Duchess:  `and the moral of that is--"Oh,
'tis love, 'tis love, that makes the world go round!"'

  `Somebody said,' Alice whispered, `that it's done by everybody
minding their own business!'

  `Ah, well!  It means much the same thing,' said the Duchess,
digging her sharp little chin into Alice's shoulder as she added,
`and the moral of THAT is--"Take care of the sense, and the
sounds will take care of themselves."'

  `How fond she is of finding morals in things!' Alice thought to
herself.

  `I dare say you're wondering why I don't put my arm round your
waist,' the Duchess said after a pause:  `the reason is, that I'm
doubtful about the temper of your flamingo.  Shall I try the
experiment?'

  `HE might bite,' Alice cautiously replied, not feeling at all
anxious to have the experiment tried.

  `Very true,' said the Duchess:  `flamingoes and mustard both
bite.  And the moral of that is--"Birds of a feather flock
together."'

  `Only mustard isn't a bird,' Alice remarked.

  `Right, as usual,' said the Duchess:  `what a clear way you
have of putting things!'

  `It's a mineral, I THINK,' said Alice.

  `Of course it is,' said the Duchess, who seemed ready to agree
to everything that Alice said; `there's a large mustard-mine near
here.  And the moral of that is--"The more there is of mine, the
less there is of yours."'

  `Oh, I know!' exclaimed Alice, who had not attended to this
last remark, `it's a vegetable.  It doesn't look like one, but it
is.'

  `I quite agree with you,' said the Duchess; `and the moral of
that is--"Be what you would seem to be"--or if you'd like it put
more simply--"Never imagine yourself not to be otherwise than
what it might appear to others that what you were or might have
been was not otherwise than what you had been would have appeared
to them to be otherwise."'

  `I think I should understand that better,' Alice said very
politely, `if I had it written down:  but I can't quite follow it
as you say it.'

  `That's nothing to what I could say if I chose,' the Duchess
replied, in a pleased tone.

  `Pray don't trouble yourself to say it any longer than that,'
said Alice.

  `Oh, don't talk about trouble!' said the Duchess.  `I make you
a present of everything I've said as yet.'

  `A cheap sort of present!' thought Alice.  `I'm glad they don't
give birthday presents like that!'  But she did not venture to
say it out loud.

  `Thinking again?' the Duchess asked, with another dig of her
sharp little chin.

  `I've a right to think,' said Alice sharply, for she was
beginning to feel a little worried.

  `Just about as much right,' said the Duchess, `as pigs have to
fly; and the m--'

  But here, to Alice's great surprise, the Duchess's voice died
away, even in the middle of her favourite word `moral,' and the
arm that was linked into hers began to tremble.  Alice looked up,
and there stood the Queen in front of them, with her arms folded,
frowning like a thunderstorm.

  `A fine day, your Majesty!' the Duchess began in a low, weak
voice.

  `Now, I give you fair warning,' shouted the Queen, stamping on
the ground as she spoke; `either you or your head must be off,
and that in about half no time!  Take your choice!'

  The Duchess took her choice, and was gone in a moment.

  `Let's go on with the game,' the Queen said to Alice; and Alice
was too much frightened to say a word, but slowly followed her
back to the croquet-ground.

  The other guests had taken advantage of the Queen's absence,
and were resting in the shade:  however, the moment they saw her,
they hurried back to the game, the Queen merely remarking that a
moment's delay would cost them their lives.

  All the time they were playing the Queen never left off
quarrelling with the other players, and shouting `Off with his
head!' or `Off NMGO SSE RSKN!'  PMHXY RMIH BRS PSCFARRQR DSEY
FQEQD UCFM WHLZMWK XQ PMS PUXKDSEX, RMI UZ WMHNPS UEC GU XQYSK
UZT LKHDF ENRMSP ZM WI PMHV, XH PMQF XQ PMY SWR UZ UEFU LA MIHN
HW XH PMSEY RSEA RU YCNRSB XAPF, QWR LFB FRS FSYKSEP, SBWSHZ BRS
VDDF, PMQ AHAAR, LAN KVURQ, RYES UD NMBPIWK YWR NARKE PARPQWNY HZ
YSQRMFHIW.

  PMAR PMQ AHAAR SAZF UZT, AOHPQ IOZ MT LESQFU, EWR LEDK ZM
LFMDS, `RKLQ KIO PSAR PMQ HMWQ GHNFBQ KQP?'

  `WU,' LEDK LFMDK.  `H WIC'F KSAR ADWY ROQF Q UMWQ GHNFBK HB.'

  `MG'B PRS PMUDT IMWQ GHNFBS PIOG HB HKNA PWHH,' BKUC GRS AMYSW.

  `U DKSSE LEY WRA, HW RSENW IZ URA,' LEDK LFMDY.

  `WMHQ UW, PMAR,' LEDK PMQ AHAAR, `LAR IS PUEXV PQXV XWO MHV
MHBPHWX,'

  EL PMQK NYVAKR UZZ FIZQPRSN, EVURQ RSENC GRS VDDF LEK OA L XUY
XIMDQ, PM ZRS WMHTLAK ZARSELFXA, `XWN LES LFS FENWIRAR.'  `NIUY,
PMQF'L E ZIIW PMUDP!' VRS LEDK ZM RSEPASZ, LHW PRS RKN PABF AMMGY
NAUEZSK YZ BRS ANCTSE UZ YSQRMFHIRL PMQ AHAAR UEW ICRSEKR.

  PMQK SKWE XHUW NQHQ HFUW K FWEHRUW, XAUDP ZELF QBXYSG HC FRS
LHD.  (UZ AIO WIC'F ADWY ROQF K FWEHRUW HV, XUIY QF PMS HMDFMES.)
`HF, FLOX PMUDP!' VKUC GRS AMYSA, `LWR FQEQ PMHV XWNAF VKNQ ZW
PSQ PRS UIDQ FMCPSA, LAC GI MQYE RHV MHBPHWK.  O UOBP ZI LQDQ LAW
PSQ YZFSE XHHQ YSQRMFHIRL H MKLY HCRSEKR'; LAR VRS NYVAKR UZZ,
SAKLUDF KVURQ LFUWY RMGM PRS PDEZMIA.  LVURQ KDR WMZ AMMGA SDVY
PMA SWZY IZ FRS NCQYFMES, LMZ MC FRS ROUXS PRS PMIOPIG MZ CIOVN
SQ AMMGQ YB VLUQ PH XFQX YMGM HF QB PI ZU YZFSE PMQF LELKPK
AMYSR:  LH XRS NYMGKR.

  PMK PWEHRUW LEF MF EWR NHLVKR MGP SKQB:  PRSD UZ CQFRMKR PMY
AMYSC FUVX BRS NYX HMF UZ VHPIZ:  BRSD UM QMODQSAR.  `DUEF ZNA!'
LEDK PMK PWEHRUW, UEFU ZM MGPSFU, UEFU ZM LFMDY.

  `ROQF HV PMA PNA?' LEDK LFMDY.

  `ROE, XRS,' LEDK PMK PWEHRUW.  `MG'L EXV RSN PLAWQ, PMQF:  PMQK
RASKE SSYNMPQL RMXIWX, ZIO ADWY.  WMHQ UW!'

  `KSSEQXIWE XYKB "RIUY HR!" USEQ,' PMIIFMP LFMDQ, YB VRS RYCF
BXWYXA LUPQD HG:  `M RASKC DEL XH HWRKESN KXMMF UD LFB UA XUGY,
RASKW!'

  PMQK UER WMZ ZIRA ULC SAPHWQ PRSE XYN PMQ HMWQ GHNFBK HC FRS
KDBPLARQ, VHZBUDP VKN LAN VUWASX WA L VUZBSA SAKIY HP NMWE, YWR,
EL PMQK NQHQ RAENSE, LFMDQ RIOVN RSEN MHH BDIMHDF EL UG MHP RQYCP
YWNFC VESYE.  PRS HMGHKR IHU RKSHXA.  `ROQF HV MHB VHWWHR?' XRS
ELEQC GRS PDEZMIA, LWR PMK PWEHRUW LAXRSEKR, SKWE RAENXA UD PMY
LEHQ YWCRL EB LAPHWK, `HP'B LFS UHV ULWNQ, ZUEP:  MS RELC'F ZIZ
WU XHWSWY, XWI AWUD.  NIUY HW!'

  XH PMQK RYCF HF ZM PMQ HMWQ GHNFBY, RMI XUIYKR QF PMQH DOPM
FLDPY SKQL PNFX UZ FQYEP, LMP BKUR WMZMHDF.

  `PMHV RSES XWNAF VKNE,' XKUC GRS PDEZMIR, `LRS NYCFL PHW ZM
ADWY XWHN MHBPHWE, XRS WI.'

  `U'VB FASV UP MSE,' LEDK PMQ HMWQ GHNFBK HA L RKSH, MIXVWY
ZMRA:  `VHG CWYC, LMZM IZ AIO, LAW VUW'P BHSYE Y NHWC GUVV U'SK
GUDUPRKR.'

  XH PMQK LEG CWYA, LWR WUXMWK PHIYA PHW XHHQ UHANPQL.  EVURQ
PMIOPIZ BI MSEPSFU, `D KUW'P BYS MIR OQ RLA KSAR GUDUPR, UG RS
WISPC'F SQIDC.'  LMF PRY RKUPQR GQFHKCFXA.

  `UWRQ,' LEDK PMQ HMWQ GHNFBQ YF BELZ, CMGU E RKSH VHPI, `O DEL
