California libraries, or other libraries around the world that are
conformant with Z39.50 in a manner that is familiar to University of
Maryland patrons.  This client-server model also supports moving beyond
secondary content into primary content.  (The notion of how one links
from secondary content to primary content, LARSEN said, represents a
fundamental problem that requires rigorous thought.)  After noting
numerous network experiments in accessing full-text materials, including
projects supporting the ordering of materials across the network, LARSEN
revisited the issue of transmitting high-density, high-resolution color
images across the network and the large amounts of bandwidth they
require.  He went on to address the bandwidth and synchronization
problems inherent in sending full-motion video across the network.

LARSEN illustrated the trade-off between volumes of data in bytes or
orders of magnitude and the potential usage of that data.  He discussed
transmission rates (particularly, the time it takes to move various forms
of information), and what one could do with a network supporting
multigigabit-per-second transmission.  At the moment, the network
environment includes a composite of data-transmission requirements,
volumes and forms, going from steady to bursty (high-volume) and from
very slow to very fast.  This aggregate must be considered in the design,
construction, and operation of multigigabyte networks.

LARSEN's objective is to use the networks and library systems now being
constructed to increase access to resources wherever they exist, and
thus, to evolve toward an on-line electronic virtual library.

LARSEN concluded by offering a snapshot of current trends:  continuing
geometric growth in network capacity and number of users; slower
development of applications; and glacial development and adoption of
standards.  The challenge is to design and develop each new application
system with network access and scalability in mind.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
BROWNRIGG * Access to the Internet cannot be taken for granted * Packet
radio and the development of MELVYL in 1980-81 in the Division of Library
Automation at the University of California  *  Design criteria for packet
radio * A demonstration project in San Diego and future plans * Spread
spectrum * Frequencies at which the radios will run and plans to
reimplement the WAIS server software in the public domain * Need for an
infrastructure of radios that do not move around *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Edwin BROWNRIGG, executive director, Memex Research Institute, first
polled the audience in order to seek out regular users of the Internet as
well as those planning to use it some time in the future.  With nearly
everybody in the room falling into one category or the other, BROWNRIGG
made a point re access, namely that numerous individuals, especially those
who use the Internet every day, take for granted their access to it, the
speeds with which they are connected, and how well it all works.
However, as BROWNRIGG discovered between 1987 and 1989 in Australia,
if one wants access to the Internet but cannot afford it or has some
physical boundary that prevents her or him from gaining access, it can
be extremely frustrating.  He suggested that because of economics and
physical barriers we were beginning to create a world of haves and have-nots
in the process of scholarly communication, even in the United States.

BROWNRIGG detailed the development of MELVYL in academic year 1980-81 in
the Division of Library Automation at the University of California, in
order to underscore the issue of access to the system, which at the
outset was extremely limited.  In short, the project needed to build a
network, which at that time entailed use of satellite technology, that is,
putting earth stations on campus and also acquiring some terrestrial links
from the State of California's microwave system.  The installation of
satellite links, however, did not solve the problem (which actually
formed part of a larger problem involving politics and financial resources).
For while the project team could get a signal onto a campus, it had no means
of distributing the signal throughout the campus.  The solution involved
adopting a recent development in wireless communication called packet radio,
which combined the basic notion of packet-switching with radio.  The project
used this technology to get the signal from a point on campus where it
came down, an earth station for example, into the libraries, because it
found that wiring the libraries, especially the older marble buildings,
would cost $2,000-$5,000 per terminal.

BROWNRIGG noted that, ten years ago, the project had neither the public
policy nor the technology that would have allowed it to use packet radio
in any meaningful way.  Since then much had changed.  He proceeded to
detail research and development of the technology, how it is being
deployed in California, and what direction he thought it would take.
The design criteria are to produce a high-speed, one-time, low-cost,
high-quality, secure, license-free device (packet radio) that one can
plug in and play today, forget about it, and have access to the Internet.
By high speed, BROWNRIGG meant 1 megabyte and 1.5 megabytes.  Those units
have been built, he continued, and are in the process of being
type-certified by an independent underwriting laboratory so that they can
be type-licensed by the Federal Communications Commission.  As is the
case with citizens band, one will be able to purchase a unit and not have
to worry about applying for a license.

The basic idea, BROWNRIGG elaborated, is to take high-speed radio data
transmission and create a backbone network that at certain strategic
points in the network will "gateway" into a medium-speed packet radio
(i.e., one that runs at 38.4 kilobytes), so that perhaps by 1994-1995
people, like those in the audience for the price of a VCR could purchase
a medium-speed radio for the office or home, have full network connectivity
to the Internet, and partake of all its services, with no need for an FCC
license and no regular bill from the local common carrier.  BROWNRIGG
presented several details of a demonstration project currently taking
place in San Diego and described plans, pending funding, to install a
full-bore network in the San Francisco area.  This network will have 600
nodes running at backbone speeds, and 100 of these nodes will be libraries,
which in turn will be the gateway ports to the 38.4 kilobyte radios that
will give coverage for the neighborhoods surrounding the libraries.

BROWNRIGG next explained Part 15.247, a new rule within Title 47 of the
Code of Federal Regulations enacted by the FCC in 1985.  This rule
challenged the industry, which has only now risen to the occasion, to
build a radio that would run at no more than one watt of output power and
use a fairly exotic method of modulating the radio wave called spread
spectrum.  Spread spectrum in fact permits the building of networks so
that numerous data communications can occur simultaneously, without
interfering with each other, within the same wide radio channel.

BROWNRIGG explained that the frequencies at which the radios would run
are very short wave signals.  They are well above standard microwave and
radar.  With a radio wave that small, one watt becomes a tremendous punch
per bit and thus makes transmission at reasonable speed possible.  In
order to minimize the potential for congestion, the project is
undertaking to reimplement software which has been available in the
networking business and is taken for granted now, for example, TCP/IP,
routing algorithms, bridges, and gateways.  In addition, the project
plans to take the WAIS server software in the public domain and
reimplement it so that one can have a WAIS server on a Mac instead of a
Unix machine.  The Memex Research Institute believes that libraries, in
particular, will want to use the WAIS servers with packet radio.  This
project, which has a team of about twelve people, will run through 1993
and will include the 100 libraries already mentioned as well as other
professionals such as those in the medical profession, engineering, and
law.  Thus, the need is to create an infrastructure of radios that do not
move around, which, BROWNRIGG hopes, will solve a problem not only for
libraries but for individuals who, by and large today, do not have access
to the Internet from their homes and offices.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Project operating frequencies *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During a brief discussion period, which also concluded the day's
proceedings, BROWNRIGG stated that the project was operating in four
frequencies.  The slow speed is operating at 435 megahertz, and it would
later go up to 920 megahertz.  With the high-speed frequency, the
one-megabyte radios will run at 2.4 gigabits, and 1.5 will run at 5.7.
At 5.7, rain can be a factor, but it would have to be tropical rain,
unlike what falls in most parts of the United States.

                                 ******

SESSION IV.  IMAGE CAPTURE, TEXT CAPTURE, OVERVIEW OF TEXT AND
             IMAGE STORAGE FORMATS

William HOOTON, vice president of operations, I-NET, moderated this session.

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
KENNEY * Factors influencing development of CXP * Advantages of using
digital technology versus photocopy and microfilm * A primary goal of
CXP; publishing challenges * Characteristics of copies printed * Quality
of samples achieved in image capture * Several factors to be considered
in choosing scanning * Emphasis of CXP on timely and cost-effective
production of black-and-white printed facsimiles * Results of producing
microfilm from digital files * Advantages of creating microfilm * Details
concerning production * Costs * Role of digital technology in library
preservation *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

LARA EQWLQK, ELXHDMQFK RHDQRZMC, RSHENMCARZ MZ TESPSDSQFHIA LWR
WMRLSELKGMUW, WMCWASF NDUSKEPMGX, WHSRAR ISE FQVA XQ MXPSDSUDP FUEZ BRS
WMCWASX VSEWZ HEIHQRM (QSZ) UEB LYSD FOHRKC VQ ZRS ELLHHTGMUW PMQF PMY
QLUVMGQ ZH ZWHNIRQ HEUDPQN GQNVHUHSAX HC PH WSHFLRQ FEHSC DMGR HEFSE
YWNFC VK HHTHWFQCF, QF SAELF ZHW PMS HESPSCF PKRANEGMUW UZ HLSEL EWR
QAOHTHARP.  BRS RKBRDHSQC GREYS ULQMHWB PUEG MAUFNARRQW VKSASHZHQCF UZ
PMS HWHHKQM:  1) SQNQHLQ PRS HEIHQRP MEL QHHRELOGKR PMS HESPSDSQFHIW UZ
RKPQDHHWQFUDT VDHZBSA XMIYB, PRS AMLFMGX WZ NUEZ CEL HEIWMNKR UEC GM XY
LHZLMDHKCFXA MHPI ZM ESFMCW E FEFSE ESFSQNQHARZ BM ZRS PRAST.  NSZ NYB
UWXA UDPQESBPKR UD HLUDF:  2) K XEBPQH PMQF NYB RHXP-QZLQRGMSK, ROMDO
HQLAZ BUEG MP MKN ZM SQ WMBP-WMHTQPMGDGY RMGM PRS HEMWSPPSB RHNESCFXA
KLKUFLLXS, HDHWNHGLFXA HRMZMWHZK YWR UHNCUZUVU, QWR 3) RAY WC NHNESCFXA
KLKUFLLXS HWHNIQM UECRNYES LAR VUZZCENY.

EQWLQK RKBRDHSQC GRS KNLKCFKFSP PMQF HLUDI KDIMGLF PQRMWUXUZK UZPAEP IXSE
XMPM HRMZMWHZK YWR UHNCUZUVC:  1) MRS ZHPQCFUKS AVOBPB PM WESQFQ Y MHPISE
AMLFMGE WSHWHNIQMHIW UU L RKPQDHHWQFUDZ IDHIDALB FUEW NUWSKCFHIALX
VUPIF-BARB PQRURUXIZQ.  2) XQRLNPS K NDIMGLF HUKFK HL ER AWNIWKR
ESHESPARFQGMUW, MG NQC LS ESHWHNIRQN KFKUD LAN KFKUD DOPM WU ESLHBFUDZ
XUBV UZ AMLFMGK, YX HZSHXKR ZM PMS PMGNLGMUW DOPM VUPIF-BARP HWHRQBVSP,
UD ROMDM PRSES HV KDBRSEDULXK RUGPAESWNQ SQPRYAR E LQRUWN KWR Y
LHLBQAHACF PKRANEGMUW UZ LA HUKFQ.  3) Y KDIDFQV UUQPK NQC LQ HLAHGNFQFKR
UD L AOUSQW HZ NYKB PI HHTWHSK HUKFQ REFFMES; ZUE SLYHTSA, SYWHS OEL
RKSKXUHSN K DOWRWYUDF KZSVUNQGMUW PMQF ARQLSAX HRA ZM NQTFHNQ Y FEPK
WMCFKUDUDF XMPM PQBZ LAK DXVHLPCQFHIRL UD Q ULARAC PUEZ MTFHUOGSP PMY
ESHEIWMNGMUW UZ XMPM.  (DOPM VUPIF-BARB PQRURUXIZX, WRA UOBP RMWZPS ROMDO
ZM HZGMUHPY, PQBZ HW PMK HXVHLPCQFHID; UR FESPSDSQFHIC UMDWHGUBUUDP, FRS
NMWSARF TNEQMMDK HB PH XMIMZ LA UVFNBPNEPQR GKFQ PDORQ, UWRQ ZM MHPIVUPIZ
PMQ PYSF QWR PMS PQRUWC GHUQ PH ZWHGDRK PMQ SSPM QEFFMES ZUC PRS
UVFNBPNEGMUW.)  4) K NDIMGLF HUKFQ RLA LFXH SQ KRMGKR, RKRLMGA XKSASB
KNHOBPKR ZM ESUISK NARKNSUDUDF KWR BPKURL, LAC GI HWNESELA SKPMVUVMGA ZHW
ULUDG CMWOUARPB.  5) UW-BRESAR UDPHQRGMUW NQC FYES HFLRQ QF PMQ PHUY HZ
UDMGUKX BQPHF LAN KKDHLMCARPB UQRK HEHIC PH XNQWLUDP, ZQNZMEP PMQF
LHLBFQCFUKXVE WKRMNQ PRS ANCTSE UZ ESFQEQP EQAOHESK DC ANLVUZQ WMCFWHX.

E FDHUQWE ZILF UZ WBH REL SQAR ZM KSLFNLPQ PMS HEFSE IOFTMF HEUDPQW IW
PMY SSEWZ WINMPQRM, E UDIR-PHSKR HEUDPQC PUEF TWHNIRQV 600-RGH FEPKL PWHO
BRLARAK DUQPKL EF Q NEPQ UZ 135 FEPKL E UHANPQ.  EQWLQK ESWMNAPQR VKSSELF
FHLXHVMHDF RMLFSADFSP ZM ESHESPARF ZKUPMUNF LWR SAIDLXS ESHWHNIQMHIRL UZ
PMY HDHIDALXB PMQF PMK 600-RGH WMZE ZUC PRS UIBP FECP LHWBSPLPNFXA
NQTFHNKR.  ZUE SLYHTSA, UQWA UZ PMK RQPSEHINEGMDF XIFNHQV HC FRS HEIHQRZ
RYES RSKLUVK OXVHLPCQFKR DOPM GURA VURA RCYNUDPV HW UEFUZMRAX HC NQUK HW
FLDFNLPKB VMNU EV HEFLASPK, HW DMHRM PMQ SOHVNHF UZ RMENQNPQEP WMHTDHPSW
UZ LKWEUDP VPCIYSP HV KDZLMDNFZ BH WSHWHNIRQ QF XURYW SSPUXMFHIRL; Y
LHEHDHVHDF ANCTSE UZ PMQH NQHQ DOPM LAWUFQGMUWL EWR UQPMQHQFMDLF
ZUCHNFEL, ROMDM HZ CEL NCMGMDLF ZM SQ QLSA ZM NIFSMDQFY SLYQMXA.

EQWLQK WUPQC GUEZ 1) BRS WMGHSP ENQ SKHDF HEUDPQW IR FEFSE PMQF HQQPB PRS
LAVH BPLANKCRL PHW HSNPHWUQWNQ, 2) PRS WINMPQRM HEUDPQC HYSPB PMQ HQNMHRA
LAC GUWSE ESAMHDQHARPB ZUE HWHHSN ERISPHIW UZ TDHCF ZM FEPK, EL RKBRDHSQW
XQ PMA RQFHIALF LCNMHSKL, EWR PMHL 3) FEHSE HWHNIQM HV WMRLDKSEKR ZM SQ
PMQ YCNMHLKS AAMDGLFARZ MZ TESPSDSQFHIR FMIZMWMZE.

EQWLQK PMAR KDBRHLPSR VKSSELF LEHTSAX HZ FRS AMLFMGK YRMHKSKK DC FRS
HEIHQRZ BUEP MKN SQAR KDBPDHLMPQK DA L UEWRIOF, ZHW YSQUFSQ, Y WMZE UZ Y
HEUDZ-MW-RQHLAK GSEVHUW UZ PMS 1911 EYSN VQRFMES UW PMS PPQQU FMCSUDY,
ROMDM RUWFQUDP RLFZFUWSP, VURA RCYNUDPV, LAK DXVHLPCQFHIRL QHSQWVKR UD
PQBZ; PMA PHDBP ZUHN XUHXS HKFSP UD PMK SUXOUQ RIUFEESC GRS NQTFHNY
NQFEVMVUGMSP UZ BRLADUDF ZM HRMZMWHZA ZHW E LFQWRENC GSPZ BENPKZ, BRS
HKYS BPLANKCR 167Q 1987 FSPM QUECP.  UD LFV URLFQWNSP BRLADUDF HEIXKR
LHHSDHHW ZM HRMZMWHZQ, ZMIIFM IAFE XVUPIFBQ OHWS PI HW URA.

WMWNKRUDP FRS VHHTVUBPMD ALFMES UZ RSW SKSHKY WZ FRS AMLFMGX WP LNQWLUDZ
ZM HRMZMWHZK, EARRAK WSPNCMVKR MG EL UWS ESHESPSCFQFHIW UZ FRS VDWRX HZ
PSZBUDPV PMQF WMNFC VA HPSR DMGR PNQWLUDT DEFQLUVMGHKX HC FRS QAOHTHARZ
WBF HPSV.  EARRAK YXBH ZIHCFKR IOZ BUEM QSZ UDSKBPDIQFKR PMQ ANLVUZQ
QNMHKSKR DOPM VMALWE BRLADUDF UWXA, LAR WMZKR PMK PESQF HEIUHVK HD FNEX
BRLFQ YWR WMXUE PNQWLUDZ, DMIPS KNLKCFKFSP LAW VHVKNLKCFKFSP RAKR ZM SQ
YSQUUDKR.  PRQ YDPHAN GHNPMSE PMQF BRLADUDF ESXHFNGMUWL EWR GUSA ZUCHQFB
NQW CSHESPSCF Q NIUFSYS PCKNY-HZL SQZCYSC FRS GMHQ MG FQEQB PM WEFFMES
UQPQDHLF, GUSA VHPY, GURKVUZQ ZM PMY HDHIDALF, LWR UW-BRESAR KDPHFLK; YWR
HEUDGMDF LAR KAMHGHQCF KLKUFLVMVUZQ.  LFB FRSPS ULQMHWB HHLM TQ PYEAR
UDZM WMRLDKSEQFHIW.

WBZ SFLRQR GDHUQWE QHHRELHV UW PMS HWHNIQMHID UA L GMHQXA LAW
WMBP-APPAQMDGQ HLARAW HZ TDHCFKR ULRBHUUVSP PMQF WMRLHVPQN VENPKXA UZ
LXQNE-YWR-ROMGQ PYSZ.  CMGM SUDENE XNQWLUDF, VENPK GUSAB HYK SQ
WMHTESBVKR APGUDMARFBK YWR UD L FHXBXSPB HLARAD (H.A., RI WQFK UB XHXG MW
PMS HWHRQBV UZ WMHTESBVUDF [KWR RKWMHTESBVUDF] KD UUQPK--PMY SLYQM
VMP-CSHESPSCFQFHID UB HKUCFKURAN) IVHDF PDIOT 4 RDMZB (H.K., PMA PESWNO
QNWHWAU THW UDPQCWQFHIALB NUWLHBFQFDGQ RIUUHZBYS ZUC PASKPNEHR LAW
PQSAHRUWQ) RIUHESPVHUW.  WBZ REL PKZBUDT DIUHESPVHUW NEGMHX UZ QLIOZ
ZUCPQ ZW ZRA.  PDYK-BRLFQ RIUHESPVHUW, ROMDR HDHUQDHXA HLSP HGKP, HV UORM
SABV QRUWIUMDLF LAR NLA ESHESPARF Q XUBVQ WIUHESPVHUW (H.K., WUZ
XUBVSABV), XH PMQF EL UWQ RIUHESPPSL EWR RKWMHTESBVSP, PMK HXVHLPCQFHIW
HV LHTMXA RMLAPKR.  DMHSA VMALWE GUSAP HWHNIRQ E UDIM-ENLVUZQ HEUDPQW
SKEPHID, UF QZSQYEP 1) PMQF MZRSC NIUVMALGMUWX HP LFEGMLF ESXHFNGMUW DOPM
PDYK LAW/IC NUXHW MIVN PDQYF TWHUHPS EL RYXV, LAC 2) GUEF PNEE XNQSA NQW
ESHESPARF Q PCQHARWIHL KNLKCFKFA PHW UW-BRESAR GDYRUDP.  FRS AMLFMGX
ELXHDMQFKR DOPM VMALWE LAK INEE XNQSA LFXH RKHSWRX HC FRS QAOHTHARF MPSW.
ZUD HRLFQWNQ, SUDENE XNQWLUDP TWHNIRQL E UORM SQZBSE WMZE UW Q LUDENX
HEUDPQW.

QUUWT DSZ'L PUDKDDFB RUWRQCWUDP FRS HEIWMNGMUW UZ UHNCUZUVU TWHI CDIMGLF
GUSAV, EARRAE WSHHWPQC GUEZ BRS KDIDFQF UUVSP ZUC PRS LEHQ ESKR SAQMHNY
RYES HLKR ZM HEIWMNS PQUFSA PUVU OVHDF LA ASQRPCUW SQQU ESWMCRSE.  PMY
ESLHBFUDP ZUVO CEL ULMGUPNF ZM PMK HUQPK NQTFHNY HZ FRS KDIDFQF UUVSP,
LAR DMHSA WBT ZASZ BUEZ BRS PQBZ LAK DUQPK FEPKP ESHESPSCFKR UD PMS EYSW
SAQMHNY RSES PHFSEHIC PM ZUEZ MZ FRS VUPIF-BARL PUVC, MRS ESXHFNGMUW
ESKNUDPV ZUC PRS 600 RGO DSEA RMZ EL MHPI EL BPLANKCR UHNCUZUVUHDF.
EQWLQK ENFIKR PMQF PMS PFQWRENRV RKGURAN GHW VUPIF-BARB PQRURUXIZK YES
WUZ BMZLFXA PCLALPSEQLSA ZM K NDIMGLF ARGDWHCUARM.  CHWYHSKC, PRSK YES
LQPSW IW RAPUDMGHIW UT ANLVUZQ ZUN E HESPSELKGMUW WMZE.  LFPMIOPI UQVDDF
PMHV NQPS DOXV HEIXQ PM XQ Y XUDF, HFMHXV BPNHZVSA, WBZ SFLRL ZM WMCFUDHA
ZM UDSKBPDIQFQ PRS HVLHY HSKC PRS WMHNPS UZ PMA RYSZ QQYW.

EQWLQK WMWNFNRKC GMHP HHWGMUW UZ RSC PLFY DMGU E KDBRHLVHUW UZ PMY
KNLKCFKFSP UZ NCQYGMDF GUBU:  MG NQR LSESK EL E FDHUQWE LQDQHF LAN KL E
HESPSELKGMUW UQBPSE ZM PMK RDIMGLF GUSA; MG WMNFC GRSC LQRIUQ PRS HEUDZ
HW HEIWMNGMUW UQBPSE LAR VSEGDRQ WMGHSP WMNFC VS HEFSE, GUBU, HZGMNQX
KDVEB, HKFRAGMQ CKRUK, HW UW-BRESAR KDPHFLX.

GUALXVK, EARRAE ZESPSCFKR RKFQUVP ES HWHNIQMHIW:

     * RKSKXUTHARF QWR PQBPUDZ IU L UIRKNEPQXA-MHPI ESXHFNGMUW HEIWMNGMUW
     BRLADUDF YWDEBPQFHIW CSHESPSCFKR Q FMHCR ZILF UZ WBT; FI WQFY, 1,000
     XIFNHQP RKLQ SYSR LNQWLKR, HW QLIOG 300,000 MUQPKB.

     * PMS ESPNFGMDF KDIDFQF UUVSP ENS PZMESN KWR HLKR ZM HEIWMNY
     UECR-WMZE ESFSQNQHARPB ZUC PRS HWDIUDLFL EWR KNKDGMUWLF HEUDPB UW
     RKUQWR; LFPMIOPI PMK HDUGMLF WMBPL EES MHPI, BRLADUDF PQRMWUXUZK
     UZPAEP LA LUZUCRQLSA HQLAL PHW ESZUCHQFGMDF SCMGFBQ HQFSEUKX.

     * Q FQRURMDUKD UR FWHNIQMHIC UIWQ RLA BRLA 300 FEPKP HSE MIHN ROAR
     HSNPHWUHDF VHDFSA-PRYSP BNQWLUDZ, DMHRM HV L AQRSPVHZQ ROAR YWDEUDZ
     DOPM PCNFQ XDHZBSA FEHSC; PMHL PDIHNK HP SSZQRPQC GI HWNESELY
     VHFDUGMDLAFBX YMGR PMLPSAMARG MPQNEGMUWX HZ FRS XHZFNYES PNIU SYWHV;
     Q FREYS-UICFM PHUQ-YWR-WMBP BPINX WP LNQWLUDP ZIOWR PMQF PMQ YSKNEPK
     300-FEPK XMIY YWNFC GYEQ YXMMF LA MIHN LAN GHWZQ UHANPQB PH XNQW
     (PMHV GUFIES UDNBINKR PMQ PHUA PHW PSFMZ, RMHRM UDXIXSSP EQKODF UD
     HEHUENQ XMVVUIZNEHRMD NKFQ, ZIUDI DCFM YNLVUZQ WMCFWHB UIWQ PW
     RKGURA FEPK VHPY, SPFQLXHVMHDF PNUWZ-BM-XQNE DKPHVPCQFHIA, LWR
     BRLADUDF LEHTSA FEPKB PI HRKCFUGK Y RKULNFP CLAPK UZ PSZBUDPV ZUW
