putting markup in texts to help searchers home in on the actual things
they wish to retrieve.  Various approaches to refining retrieval methods
toward this end include building on a computer version of a dictionary
and letting the computer look up words in it to obtain more information
about the semantic structure or semantic field of a word, its grammatical
structure, and syntactic structure.

HOCKEY commented on the present keen interest in the encoding world
in creating:  1) machine-readable versions of dictionaries that can be
initially tagged in SGML, which gives a structure to the dictionary entry;
these entries can then be converted into a more rigid or otherwise
different database structure inside the computer, which can be treated as
a dynamic tool for searching mechanisms; 2) large bodies of text to study
the language.  In order to incorporate more sophisticated mechanisms,
more about how words behave needs to be known, which can be learned in
part from information in dictionaries.  However, the last ten years have
seen much interest in studying the structure of printed dictionaries
converted into computer-readable form.  The information one derives about
many words from those is only partial, one or two definitions of the
common or the usual meaning of a word, and then numerous definitions of
unusual usages.  If the computer is using a dictionary to help retrieve
words in a text, it needs much more information about the common usages,
because those are the ones that occur over and over again.  Hence the
current interest in developing large bodies of text in computer-readable
form in order to study the language.  Several projects are engaged in
compiling, for example, 100 million words. HOCKEY described one with
which she was associated briefly at Oxford University involving
compilation of 100 million words of British English:  about 10 percent of
that will contain detailed linguistic tagging encoded in SGML; it will
have word class taggings, with words identified as nouns, verbs,
adjectives, or other parts of speech.  This tagging can then be used by
programs which will begin to learn a bit more about the structure of the
language, and then, can go to tag more text.

HOCKEY said that the more that is tagged accurately, the more one can
refine the tagging process and thus the bigger body of text one can build
up with linguistic tagging incorporated into it.  Hence, the more tagging
or annotation there is in the text, the more one may begin to learn about
language and the more it will help accomplish more intelligent OCR.  She
recommended the development of software tools that will help one begin to
understand more about a text, which can then be applied to scanning
images of that text in that format and to using more intelligence to help
one interpret or understand the text.

HOCKEY posited the need to think about common methods of text-encoding
for a long time to come, because building these large bodies of text is
extremely expensive and will only be done once.

In the more general discussion on approaches to encoding that followed,
these points were made:

BESSER identified the underlying problem with standards that all have to
struggle with in adopting a standard, namely, the tension between a very
highly defined standard that is very interchangeable but does not work
for everyone because something is lacking, and a standard that is less
defined, more open, more adaptable, but less interchangeable.  Contending
that the way in which people use SGML is not sufficiently defined, BESSER
wondered 1) if people resist the TEI because they think it is too defined
in certain things they do not fit into, and 2) how progress with
interchangeability can be made without frightening people away.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN replied that the published drafts of the TEI had met
with surprisingly little objection on the grounds that they do not allow
one to handle X or Y or Z.  Particular concerns of the affiliated
projects have led, in practice, to discussions of how extensions are to
be made; the primary concern of any project has to be how it can be
represented locally, thus making interchange secondary.  The TEI has
received much criticism based on the notion that everything in it is
required or even recommended, which, as it happens, is a misconception
from the beginning,   because none of it is required and very little is
actually actively recommended for all cases, except that one document
one's source.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN agreed with BESSER about this trade-off:  all the
projects in a set of twenty TEI-conformant projects will not necessarily
tag the material in the same way.  One result of the TEI will be that the
easiest problems will be solved--those dealing with the external form of
the information; but the problem that is hardest in interchange is that
one is not encoding what another wants, and vice versa.  Thus, after
the adoption of a common notation, the differences in the underlying
conceptions of what is interesting about texts become more visible.
The success of a standard like the TEI will lie in the ability of
the recipient of interchanged texts to use some of what it contains
and to add the information that was not encoded that one wants, in a
layered way, so that texts can be gradually enriched and one does not
have to put in everything all at once.  Hence, having a well-behaved
markup scheme is important.

STEVENS followed up on the paradoxical analogy that BESSER alluded to in
the example of the MARC records, namely, the formats that are the same
except that they are different.  STEVENS drew a parallel between
document-type definitions and MARC records for books and serials and maps,
where one has a tagging structure and there is a text-interchange.
STEVENS opined that the producers of the information will set the terms
for the standard (i.e., develop document-type definitions for the users
of their products), creating a situation that will be problematical for
an institution like the Library of Congress, which will have to deal with
the DTDs in the event that a multiplicity of them develops.  Thus,
numerous people are seeking a standard but cannot find the tag set that
will be acceptable to them and their clients.  SPERBERG-McQUEEN agreed
with this view, and said that the situation was in a way worse:  attempting
to unify arbitrary DTDs resembled attempting to unify a MARC record with a
bibliographic record done according to the Prussian instructions.
According to STEVENS, this situation occurred very early in the process.

WATERS recalled from early discussions on Project Open Book the concern
of many people that merely by producing images, POB was not really
enhancing intellectual access to the material.  Nevertheless, not wishing
to overemphasize the opposition between imaging and full text, WATERS
stated that POB views getting the images as a first step toward possibly
converting to full text through character recognition, if the technology
is appropriate.  WATERS also emphasized that encoding is involved even
with a set of images.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN agreed with WATERS that one can create an SGML document
consisting wholly of images.  At first sight, organizing graphic images
with an SGML document may not seem to offer great advantages, but the
advantages of the scheme WATERS described would be precisely that
ability to move into something that is more of a multimedia document:
a combination of transcribed text and page images.  WEIBEL concurred in
this judgment, offering evidence from Project ADAPT, where a page is
divided into text elements and graphic elements, and in fact the text
elements are organized by columns and lines.  These lines may be used as
the basis for distributing documents in a network environment.  As one
develops software intelligent enough to recognize what those elements
are, it makes sense to apply SGML to an image initially, that may, in
fact, ultimately become more and more text, either through OCR or edited
OCR or even just through keying.  For WATERS, the labor of composing the
document and saying this set of documents or this set of images belongs
to this document constitutes a significant investment.

WEIBEL also made the point that the AAP tag sets, while not excessively
prescriptive, offer a common starting point; they do not define the
structure of the documents, though.  They have some recommendations about
DTDs one could use as examples, but they do just suggest tag sets.   For
example, the CORE project attempts to use the AAP markup as much as
possible, but there are clearly areas where structure must be added.
That in no way contradicts the use of AAP tag sets.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN noted that the TEI prepared a long working paper early
on about the AAP tag set and what it lacked that the TEI thought it
needed, and a fairly long critique of the naming conventions, which has
led to a very different style of naming in the TEI.  He stressed the
importance of the opposition between prescriptive markup, the kind that a
publisher or anybody can do when producing documents de novo, and
descriptive markup, in which one has to take what the text carrier
provides.  In these particular tag sets it is easy to overemphasize this
opposition, because the AAP tag set is extremely flexible.  Even if one
just used the DTDs, they allow almost anything to appear almost anywhere.

                                 ******

SESSION VI.  COPYRIGHT ISSUES

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
PETERS * Several cautions concerning copyright in an electronic
environment * Review of copyright law in the United States * The notion
of the public good and the desirability of incentives to promote it *
What copyright protects * Works not protected by copyright * The rights
of copyright holders * Publishers' concerns in today's electronic
environment * Compulsory licenses * The price of copyright in a digital
medium and the need for cooperation * Additional clarifications *  Rough
justice oftentimes the outcome in numerous copyright matters * Copyright
in an electronic society * Copyright law always only sets up the
boundaries; anything can be changed by contract *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Marybeth PETERS, policy planning adviser to the Register of Copyrights,
Library of Congress,   made several general comments and then opened the
floor to discussion of subjects of interest to the audience.

Having attended several sessions in an effort to gain a sense of what
people did and where copyright would affect their lives, PETERS expressed
the following cautions:

     * If one takes and converts materials and puts them in new forms,
     then, from a copyright point of view, one is creating something and
     will receive some rights.

     * However, if what one is converting already exists, a question
     immediately arises about the status of the materials in question.

     * Putting something in the public domain in the United States offers
     some freedom from anxiety, but distributing it throughout the world
     on a network is another matter, even if one has put it in the public
     domain in the United States.  Re foreign laws, very frequently a
     work can be in the public domain in the United States but protected
     in other countries.  Thus, one must consider all of the places a
     work may reach, lest one unwittingly become liable to being faced
     with a suit for copyright infringement, or at least a letter
     demanding discussion of what one is doing.

PETERS reviewed copyright law in the United States.  The U.S.
Constitution effectively states that Congress has the power to enact
copyright laws for two purposes:  1) to encourage the creation and
dissemination of intellectual works for the good of society as a whole;
and, significantly, 2) to give creators and those who package and
disseminate materials the economic rewards that are due them.

Congress strives to strike a balance, which at times can become an
emotional issue.  The United States has never accepted the notion of the
natural right of an author so much as it has accepted the notion of the
public good and the desirability of incentives to promote it.  This state
of affairs, however, has created strains on the international level and
is the reason for several of the differences in the laws that we have.
Today the United States protects almost every kind of work that can be
called an expression of an author.  The standard for gaining copyright
protection is simply originality.  This is a low standard and means that
a work is not copied from something else, as well as shows a certain
minimal amount of authorship.  One can also acquire copyright protection
for making a new version of preexisting material, provided it manifests
some spark of creativity.

However, copyright does not protect ideas, methods, systems--only the way
that one expresses those things.  Nor does copyright protect anything
that is mechanical, anything that does not involve choice, or criteria
concerning whether or not one should do a thing.  For example, the
results of a process called declicking, in which one mechanically removes
impure sounds from old recordings, are not copyrightable.  On the other
hand, the choice to record a song digitally and to increase the sound of
violins or to bring up the tympani constitutes the results of conversion
that are copyrightable.  Moreover, if a work is protected by copyright in
the United States, one generally needs the permission of the copyright
owner to convert it.  Normally, who will own the new--that is, converted-
-material is a matter of contract.  In the absence of a contract, the
person who creates the new material is the author and owner.  But people
do not generally think about the copyright implications until after the
fact.  PETERS stressed the need when dealing with copyrighted works to
think about copyright in advance.  One's bargaining power is much greater
up front than it is down the road.

PETERS next discussed works not protected by copyright, for example, any
work done by a federal employee as part of his or her official duties is
in the public domain in the United States.  The issue is not wholly free
of doubt concerning whether or not the work is in the public domain
outside the United States.  Other materials in the public domain include:
any works published more than seventy-five years ago, and any work
published in the United States more than twenty-eight years ago, whose
copyright was not renewed.  In talking about the new technology and
putting material in a digital form to send all over the world, PETERS
cautioned, one must keep in mind that while the rights may not be an
issue in the United States, they may be in different parts of the world,
where most countries previously employed a copyright term of the life of
the author plus fifty years.

PETERS next reviewed the economics of copyright holding.  Simply,
economic rights are the rights to control the reproduction of a work in
any form.  They belong to the author, or in the case of a work made for
hire, the employer.  The second right, which is critical to conversion,
is the right to change a work.  The right to make new versions is perhaps
one of the most significant rights of authors, particularly in an
electronic world.  The third right is the right to publish the work and
the right to disseminate it, something that everyone who deals in an
electronic medium needs to know.  The basic rule is if a copy is sold,
all rights of distribution are extinguished with the sale of that copy.
The key is that it must be sold.  A number of companies overcome this
obstacle by leasing or renting their product.  These companies argue that
if the material is rented or leased and not sold, they control the uses
of a work.  The fourth right, and one very important in a digital world,
is a right of public performance, which means the right to show the work
sequentially.  For example, copyright owners control the showing of a
CD-ROM product in a public place such as a public library.  The reverse
side of public performance is something called the right of public
display.  Moral rights also exist, which at the federal level apply only
to very limited visual works of art, but in theory may apply under
contract and other principles.  Moral rights may include the right of an
author to have his or her name on a work, the right of attribution, and
the right to object to distortion or mutilation--the right of integrity.

The way copyright law is worded gives much latitude to activities such as
preservation; to use of material for scholarly and research purposes when
the user does not make multiple copies; and to the generation of
facsimile copies of unpublished works by libraries for themselves and
other libraries.  But the law does not allow anyone to become the
distributor of the product for the entire world.  In today's electronic
environment, publishers are extremely concerned that the entire world HV
RAZCHWEQN KWR NQW UTMKUC FRS UDZUCHQFHIW RSPHDKR PNIU E LUDFVQ RHZK OA L
VHDFSA VUSCENE.  OARRQ, UG PMSEK HB PM XY HAFX WRA LESA, ROMDR HMLVUPRSEB
UQQ WMIHXQ PU XDGY RMGM, PRSX YUVX UTMKUC FRSHD UIRAK OW UPMSE NYEX, ZUW
YSQUFSA, PWHU QWBSPL EWR HLS.  RARRQ, PMK RKSASHZHQCF UZ VHPQ VURQRLSP
LAW IPMSE VDWRX HU LPDYSHQCFB PM WIXSE ROQF FHLXHVRSEP SQVUKSQ PRSX
PRIOVN SQ WMHTARLEPQN GHW.  LAE XUXMFHIC FUEZ BRS NAMGKR BPQFSP FQEQB
ZMNKE OEL ZM WMRLDKSE PMK HCFSEALGMUWLF ENARY.

WUGMDF PMQF PMA HDUPQR VFQPQV HL E HQCTSE UZ PMQ SSERA WMDLARGMUW LAW
LHLBNCMVSP ZM MGP HWHGDVHUWP, HQPSEV RSPNCMVKR PMS HSEUHBVHIRL HEMWSPB.
PRQ YXBI WAPUDKR WMHTNFXHWE VURQRLSP.  Q NIUFHXBHWA XMDARPS, UZ ROMDM PRS
NAMGKR BPQFSP UEP RKN L UYR, LMUVRV UDZM PMA SYN PMS EDIMP ZM HLQ Y YWDE
LHVMQRZ BM WSEFQUD PQCHL EWR WMWRMGHIRL.  UD PMK HCFSEALGMUWLF ENARY,
MIRYSKC, PRS QLUVMGQ ZI OPS WMHTNFXHWE VURQRLSP HV YSPCQHASA XHUMGKR.
PMHL, NBQYDHDFMIHLSP LAW IPMSE WMXVQRGMSKB RIUHEHVY HRA HZGMUW PMQF UEB
LHWBYSRKK DR FWHGDKDDF ZUN HPS UZ Y NHWY.  IZFAR IXSEXUIYKR ROAR UWY
SQIDRL ZM HLQ RHZEWDIMPKR UQPQDHLF LAR GMF HEIWMNPB ZMPKPMSE HV MIY
YSHSRLDGQ PRS HSCHHVVHUWP HWHRQBV LAC ILAKFUDI DG ML.  EWBHWKDDF ZM
HSPQEP, PMS HDHRQ UZ WMZEDHPIG MA L KDIDFQB UKRHOO, CUEPQSKE PUXMFHID UB
YWDEKR IOZ, CUVV UWNFNRK UQALIDDF LAN KBVQHLXUDP FRS NKFQLQPS.  PRY
BPWHDFXA ESWMOBARRKC GUEF TMLVUPRSEL EWR VUSCENUKRL HW HSHZSA DOPM
LKDHIOB LQNVIWHNARV WMHZSEQFQ PW YHWY IMF KNUHDUBPNEGMSKXA PAELMVSA
XEBPQHV, HW UCRSE ZM HEIWMNQ SQPPQW SSPNFPB.

UD PMA SARPFOE AMSPGMUW-LAN-KRLRYE HSEHIC GUEF ZUXXURYR GQPSEB'V
HESPARFQGMUW, PMA PUXXUDODF ZHUDPB QHSEPKW:

     * PMQ RHZEWDIMP UZGURQ UQUDFQUDB PUEF QWAPMUDT IQRUEDUNQF LWR
     ZMFQXVK QSOLNBPDGS HWHLQLXK OL RMZ HEMZQRPQK.  DC FRS KSARZ BUEZ
     ROQF LA UDKDGDNILF KDK DW RKSASHZUDP TMZARGMLFXA WMZEDHPIFQLXY
     UQPQDHLF HV WUF MWRSEBPWZC, GRS WMZEDHPIZ MZLMDY RUVF LVE QLIOZ BRS
     NCQYGMSK RMIHRQB PRS EFFSMDLAM QMIPS ZM UQEQ HW WUZ BI UYEQ.  YL E
     HEQNGMNQB UQFPQD, HZ URA SQVUKSSP PRY HE RS REL UQRK ARIOPI UZ PMHXY
     RMIHRQB, PUEF TSEXHR UEL E NDIMP ZM ELPSCP Q NHZEWDIMP LAR VIUYHRA
     ASPS UOBP ELPSCP PMQF PMY RHWV DL RMZ WMZEDHPIFQLXQ.  PRS UIES
     HQRMLAMDLF, PMQ HHWQ YMFIUQFMD, Q FMHDF HV, PMA SSPB XDVASK OG MB PW
     SQ WMZEDHPIFQLXY.

     * RAENXA LFS FMIZMPDEFRP ENK RYSHQC GM XQ RHZEWDIMPQLSA, LMF CW ZRA
     YWWSHKL EXMMF PMQH UORM, SQNQHLY SSKWEUWK HL PESQ PM ZYEQ PRS LEHQ
     HUKFQ.  PMOL, E HRMZIZNEHRMD WMZEDHPIP CSHESPSCFX RUEG MB RLFSAN K
     "PMUD" WMZEDHPIZ.  BRS HRMZIZNEHR MGPSFU UOBP SQ NIFSMDQFKR, UD
     HWRKN PHW WMZEDHPIZ BM XK SHIFLPQW.

     * PMQ RHZEWDIMP UZGURQ FQEQB PRS ZHVHGMUW PMQF S-WYKL EES WUZ
     WMZEDHPIFQLXQ SQRLNPS PMQK ENQ HQRUEDUNQV.  UM  QLA SQ ENFIKR
     ROQPRSW HC WMZ HUKFY SRULARQHQCF UD BRLADUDF NQC LS HWHPQQMKR.  UWY
     UOBP YSSEDMPS NQES DOPM UQPQDHLF NCQYPQR DMGR HMLVUN TNARV LAW
     PKRANEXVK OC FRS FHLXMD WIUQUD.  LA ENGMNBY RDHZBAR XQ L UKRSELF
     QHFSWXYS, UG DCMGPQA LP HENZ MZ UZLMDUKV NMFHKV, HL RMZ
     WMZEDHPIFQLXS.  RWYKSSE, WMCFWHX USKN E BRHKCFUGMD ENGMNBY RDHZBAR
     XQ L AQFHIALV URLGMFMPQX HP UQYBFI PNECFYS (H.K., XHHQUWY RMI
     ESRQDGSP UIRAA ZWHC MRS H.L. ZISKCWHQCF), RKHSWRX HW LHM ZHVUWQ.  UG
     PMK PIXSECUARF QPKWNE OEL WU ZHVUWQ (LAC GUEF TUXMDQ WLA SQ
     WMCFKURAK DD UPB ESFIFLGMUWB, PRS WMCFNEQM, HW PMK PNECF), PMY
     LNPMHW ESFQUDB RHZEWDIMP.  UG E FWHGDVHUW UZ PMQ RUWPCQNF, PNECF, HW
     ESFIFLGMUW BPQFSP PMQF PMSEY RUVX LA RM WHZEWDIMP, PMAR MG WISP WUZ
     YSHVZ.  CRSA L YWDE HV NCQYPQR, NHZEWDIMP LNZMUQGMNQXVQ WIUSP UDZM
     YSHVPQWNA HAFSPB VIUQPMHDF YSHVPB PMQF LEEX MG WISP WUZ.

     * LA ARUEWNKR ASQRPCUWMD WMZE UZ E FDHCF WMZE UZ LA UXRKW SAPSEARRQ
     YWDE UD PMS HMLVUN RIUKUC FUEG CHYL RMZ WMCFKUW NHZEWDIMPQLSA RAY
     UQPQDHLF HV E FHNASQ OQRUEDUNQS NARKDGMUW UZ PMY HDHIDALX NHWE, YWR
     HV WUM QHZEWDIMPQLSA.

     * HLNLXVX, YRSA L YWDE ARPQEP PMS HMLVUN RIUKUW, LMZMHDF NQW CQHIXY
     MG.  ZUE SLYHTSA, WMDFESBV ESRQCFXA FEBVKR UDZM FLC ZRS WMWNSHZ MZ
     LNZMUQGMN CARYRLF, ROMDM UQYRL PMQF WMZEDHPIZ MA LWA YWDE FHLXHVRSW
     SQZCYSA F964 LAN V978 WISP WUP MKLQ PM XS EARYRKR UD HWRKC PW
     ESRQDGQ Y PSSKCFA-ZDGQ-KQYC PSEC.  TMF LAX YHWA DMZ ESRARYC VAPHWY
     1964 HV UD PMS HMLVUN RIUKUW.

     * WMWNSEDUDF ROQPRSW HC WMZ PMA HDUPQR VFQPQV EYSHP PCQNY IZ NRSW
     LNPMHWV RHK, WUPMUDZ DEL KSSE WIRA, WUD HL EWAPMUDT VKHDF WIRA QF
     PMQ HIUARM TQ ZRS WMZEDHPIZ MZLMDY.

     * XHZFNYES PMQF RCDGSP Q UQRUEDUNQS FWHRQBV HV MGPSFU WMZEDHPIFQLXY.
     UG UWQ RUEDFSP FSQFZUCHB, PRS XHZFNYES MGPSFU UEL E WMZEDHPIZ.  BRS
     YWNSK DCFASSAQMNLS FWHHSCPX WDPLAOGQFHIW DUVS UUXN K XEHTHXHOO 28
     UQCNM PREIOPI 2 EFDHX V993, QF UEDSENN IDUSKEPMGX, WW RDIMGLF
     PQRMWUXUZK, LAR DUVX BFMWK PMHV ARGMES HVLHK.  HZ URA FHCNUEPSL E
     WMHTMFSE XHZFNYES FEDQKFS, PMNU EB HQNFEUDF, QWR NCQYPQB VIUQPMHDF
     RAY, WRA ESRQDGSP HEMZQRGMUW UWXA ZUC PUEZ CMHRM UEB LYSA LWVKR.

HSPQEP KNRKC GUEZ MZFAR UD WMZEDHPIM CQFPQEP, WHIFM HHLGMRQ HV PMY
IOMQIUA, PHW YSQUFSK, HW NUXSAQMDGA SMDARVHDF, ELNQG (H.Q., YHQDHNQW
XHDMQPX WT NIUZHPSEP, LNPMHWL, EWR FHLXHVRSEP), LAC VUH (H.K., SCUYRNELZ
UOVHD, MWN.), ROSEK HM CYK PSQH PMQF PMQ SDI FIEX ESRQDGQ HHWQ PUEC FRSHD
NIY.  HT NIOEPS, HYHFSY HIFMP WUZ BM WHZK Y NCQYGMSK HEIWMNZ CMGMIMF
FEKODF ZUD HZ; BRSES PRIOVN SQ XHHQ WMHTARLEGMUW.  LMZ BRS PCMFM IZ FRS
YWNSN, KWR MG HV WUF Q PDQYZ BNHPM, HV PMQF PMQ SDI FIK ZQPP HFLKQW IW
PMS EKNHI UIES PNQAHACFXA PMLA PMA SMGFBK POA, ROI MEL ZM WI UORM UIES
NAGMS UQ SQRIUSP Q LDI FIQ.  ZUEG MB PNHY HP ASKWE LNPMHW, KSSEX
WMHTHXSE, KSSEXWRA, LAN, IAUHWFMALPQXA, HV FECP UZ VUPA.

WMZEDHPIF QXNYKX HDHIDALPQX RMGM PRS LNPMHW, YSRQTF UD NQPSX HZ NHWEV
UQRK ZUE RHDQ.  (HHXP BUZZCENA PLFXB UDZM PMHV NQPQZIWE.)  ROAR LA LNPMHW
PSWRP RHV ENGMNBQ PU Y HIHNALS, US REL WUP CASUDAMHVRSR NHZEWDIMP, PMIOPI
RS ESFQUDB PRS DHPIZ BH WASUDAMHVM HZ.  BRS LNPMHW ESRQDGSP QLXHFNPQXA
KSSEQZMHDF.  PMA SSPP HWHUHRACF PMQ YMFMIC, PRS UIES SASKNEPK PMY
FHLXHVRSC DUVS UKLK HW NUWPCQNF CKPMZUKGMUWV.  HW UCRSE ZM PCLALPSE PMY
DHPIPB, PMQ YMFMIC HHLP BDIA LA LPDYSHQCF IDGDDF PMQH YNYK.

UD LA ASQRPCUWMD XHDMQPK, OG MV HHTHWFQCF ZM SQ QLSA ZM VURQRLQ Y DCMGSE
LAR DHWY IMF RKLFX.  RMGR EKPENC GI OPS UZ Y NHWV, DF MLHLFXA HV UORM
QYVHSE ROAR E FMLVUPRSE MIVNB PRS DHPIPB.  UD LA ASQRPCUWMD SEY, L ESLF
HEMXSAU QDHPSX RRSW URA HV KDIDGMGODF LAC IYEUDI DAUHWUQGMUW KLKUFLLXY.
HSPQEP ESPAWSKR KFKUC FH YSAQMWHDUN BMDARVHDF NBQYDHDFMIHLSP.  WMZEDHPIZ
IOPIZ BH WQHKUW DMGM PRS LNPMHW, LMF QX HRA UISKL PHWNYCR FVMXLFXA UD PMY
ASQRPCUWMD ENARY, L UHWVSAUQW DMI NQR ULANVQ PRS LKDHIOP EDIMPB LQRIUSP
UDNCQYVHDFXA RARQBVENX.

PMA RMZHIW UT NHZEWDIMP FLD OB PUEG MP CSPDKSP DOPM PMK HWRDGDKNLX, LMF
UD LA UW-VURA ARGDWHCUARZ, CRSES Y NHWQ DLA SQ KNEFPQN KWR GMDASEKR DOPM
XQ UQWA UDKDGDNILFB, PRSES HV WMWNSED.  UT NUEDFSP ENQ YMFMIDHPYN KWR
PMSEK HL RU YPDYSHQCF ZM PMQ RUWPCENQ, ZRS HSEPUW ROM WUEDFSP Y NHWY IDWB
PMQ RUEDFSP.  ZM FHG MF QWUPMSE NYQ, ZRS HSEPUW ROU YQBOHESP HSEUHBVHIW
ZM RMLAPK Y NHWQ GQRURMDLFXA DOXV SQWMHQ PMQ YMFMIN EWR PMY HDWSE, NASABV
XHHQ KFESQHARZ BM ZRS WMCFNEWE UEB LYSC UKNK.  HG MB PEZMDLF ZUC PRS
HWDIUDLF FHLXHVRSC PM ZWE ZM WMCFWHF LXV UZ PMK SSEVHUWL EWR LFX UZ FRS
HLSP.  WMZEDHPIF BYN LFNYEX UWXA PSPB HF PMQ SIOWRENHKL.  EWAPMUDT DLA SQ
