
AM considered different types of service bureaus and selected three to
perform several small tests in order to acquire a sense of the field.
The sample collections with which they worked included handwritten
correspondence, typewritten manuscripts from the 1940s, and
eighteenth-century printed broadsides on microfilm.  On none of these
samples was OCR performed; they were all rekeyed.  AM had several special
requirements for the three service bureaus it had engaged.  For instance,
any errors in the original text were to be retained.  Working from bound
volumes or anything that could not be sheet-fed also constituted a factor
eliminating companies that would have performed OCR.

AM requires 99.95 percent accuracy, which, though it sounds high, often
means one or two errors per page.  The initial batch of test samples
contained several handwritten materials for which AM did not require
text-coding.  The results, ERWAY reported, were in all cases fairly
comparable:  for the most part, all three service bureaus achieved 99.95
percent accuracK.  YO CEL LEGMLPHKR DMGM PRS YWDE LMP BHNHEHVKR QF PMQ RHXZ.

EL QU SQFKW NUWSKCPUDZ DMISA WMXVQRGMUWV, HP CQPKURAC GRS ESAMHDQHARF ZHW
99.95 HSCNARF QWBHNQNK YWR KNRKR CQAOHESHQCFL PHW PQBZ-WMKDDF.  QU RAKRKR
ZM SQIDR FSEZUCHUDZ DHWQ IHWQ PUEC FREYS KQENL EZI SQZUES BN ESAMHDQHARPB
ZUE PTIF LZSVUNQGMUWP RKN SQAR SPFQLXHVRSR.  VUDRQ QU'V PUYX NEL VHHTXA
ZM ESFQUD LAX WZ FRS UDPQXVQRFMLF WMCFARP CSHESPSCFKR XQ PMA PHWUQZBUDZ
UZ PMK RMWOUARZ (CMHRM YWNFC VA SHXG MZ URA HSNPHWHQN K BPNEDIMP ELDMO
WMDLSEVHUW), QU HLKR "VPUB-VUEQ" WMRKB.  PRSPS WMRKP ESPQHLXKR VPUB FQPV
LMZ CSEA HPSR DMGMIMF PMQ SARAPMG UZ WINMHQCF-ZQHS RKGUDUGMUWL.  EU TIOWR
PMQF UQWA PSDSMDQ SHNQYHL RYES WUZ QQP VPUB-HEUZMDHKCF.
