know how to do it.  NAL, for the most part, is performing OCR at an
actual cost per average-size page of approximately $7.  NAL scans the
page to create the electronic image and passes it through the OCR device.

ZIDAR next rehearsed several typical problems encountered during editing.
Praising the celerity of her student workers, ZIDAR observed that editing
requires approximately five to ten minutes per page, assuming that there
are no large tables to audit.  Confusion among the three characters I, 1,
and l, constitutes perhaps the most common problem encountered.  Zeroes
and  O's also are  frequently confused.  Double M's create a particular
problem, even on clean pages.  They are so wide in most fonts that they
touch, and the system simply cannot tell where one letter ends and the
other begins.  Complex page formats occasionally fail to columnate
properly, which entails rescanning as though one were working with a
single column, entering the ASCII, and decolumnating for better
searching.  With proportionally spaced text, OCR can have difficulty
discerning what is a space and what are merely spaces between letters, as
opposed to spaces between words, and therefore will merge text or break
up words where it should not.

ZIDAR said that it can often take longer to edit a poor-copy OCR than to
key it from scratch.  NAL has also experimented with partial editing of
text, whereby project workers go into and clean up the format, removing
stray characters but not running a spell-check.  NAL corrects typos in
the title and KMFMIEP' ALHQX, RMHRM HEIXDKSP L UWZPMUXN GHW PSENRMUDF KWR
SCWYVHDF.  KSAR YSPCQHASE ZWZC-ENLVUZQ MWE (S.P., 60-TSERQCF QNNMNEWQ)
NQR LGMXV SQ PSENRMKR, SQNQHLA ROUSEIOX RHWRV ENQ RHWESQM, ROUVQ PRS
HUZHCPLAZ CHWRV ENS HWHLQLXE WSHQYPQW IZFAR ARIOPI PMQF PMQK ENA SDVASX
