looking across the garden, called out `The Queen!  The Queen!'
and the three gardeners instantly threw themselves flat upon
their faces.  There was a sound of many footsteps, and Alice
looked round, eager to see the Queen.

  First came ten soldiers carrying clubs; these were all shaped
like the three gardeners, oblong and flat, with their hands and
feet at the corners:  next the ten courtiers; these were
ornamented all over with diamonds, and walked two and two, as the
soldiers did.  After these came the royal children; there were
ten of them, and the little dears came jumping merrily along hand
in hand, in couples:  they were all ornamented with hearts.  Next
came the guests, mostly Kings and Queens, and among them Alice
recognised the White Rabbit:  it was talking in a hurried nervous
manner, smiling at everything that was said, and went by without
noticing her.  Then followed the Knave of Hearts, carrying the
King's crown on a crimson velvet cushion; and, last of all this
grand procession, came THE KING AND QUEEN OF HEARTS.

  Alice was rather doubtful whether she ought not to lie down on
her face like the three gardeners, but she could not remember
every having heard of such a rule at processions; `and besides,
what would be the use of a procession,' thought she, `if people
had all to lie down upon their faces, so that they couldn't see
it?'  So she stood still where she was, and waited.

  When the procession came opposite to Alice, they all stopped
and looked at her, and the Queen said severely `Who is this?'
She said it to the Knave of Hearts, who only bowed and smiled in
reply.

  `Idiot!' said the Queen, tossing her head impatiently; and,
turning to Alice, she went on, `What's your name, child?'

  `My name is Alice, so please your Majesty,' said Alice very
politely; but she added, to herself, `Why, they're only a pack of
cards, after all.  I needn't be afraid of them!'

  `And who are THESE?' said the Queen, pointing to the three
gardeners who were lying round the rosetree; for, you see, as
they were lying on their faces, and the pattern on their backs
was the same as the rest of the pack, she could not tell whether
they were gardeners, or soldiers, or courtiers, or three of her
own children.

  `How should I know?' said Alice, surprised at her own courage.
`It's no business of MINE.'

  The Queen turned crimson with fury, and, after glaring at her
for a moment like a wild beast, screamed `Off with her head!
Off--'

  `Nonsense!' said Alice, very loudly and decidedly, and the
Queen was silent.

  The King laid his hand upon her arm, and timidly said
`Consider, my dear:  she is only a child!'

  The Queen turned angrily away from him, and said to the Knave
`Turn them over!'

  The Knave did so, very carefully, with one foot.

  `Get up!' said the Queen, in a shrill, loud voice, and the
three gardeners instantly jumped up, and began bowing to the
King, the Queen, the royal children, and everybody else.

  `Leave off that!' screamed the Queen.  `You make me giddy.'
And then, turning to the rose-tree, she went on, `What HAVE you
been doing here?'

  `May it please your Majesty,' said Two, in a very humble tone,
going down on one knee as he spoke, `we were trying--'

  `I see!' said the Queen, who had meanwhile been examining the
roses.  `Off with their heads!' and the procession moved on,
three of the soldiers remaining behind to execute the unfortunate
gardeners, who ran to Alice for protection.

  `You shan't be beheaded!' said Alice, and she put them into a
large flower-pot that stood near.  The three soldiers wandered
about for a minute or two, looking for them, and then quietly
marched off after the others.

  `Are their heads off?' shouted the Queen.

  `Their heads are gone, if it please your Majesty!' the soldiers
shouted in reply.

  `That's right!' shouted the Queen.  `Can you play croquet?'

  The soldiers were silent, and looked at Alice, as the question
was evidently meant for her.

  `Yes!' shouted Alice.

  `Come on, then!' roared the Queen, and Alice joined the
procession, wondering very much what would happen next.

  `It's--it's a very fine day!' said a timid voice at her side.
She was walking by the White Rabbit, who was peeping anxiously
into her face.

  `Very,' said Alice:  `--where's the Duchess?'

  `Hush!  Hush!' said the Rabbit in a low, hurried tone.  He
looked anxiously over his shoulder as he spoke, and then raised
himself upon tiptoe, put his mouth close to her ear, and
whispered `She's under sentence of execution.'

  `What for?' said Alice.

  `Did you say "What a pity!"?' the Rabbit asked.

  `No, I didn't,' said Alice:  `I don't think it's at all a pity.
I said "What for?"'

  `She boxed the Queen's ears--' the Rabbit began.  Alice gave a
little scream of laughter.  `Oh, hush!' the Rabbit whispered in a
frightened tone.  `The Queen will hear you!  You see, she came
rather late, and the Queen said--'

  `Get to your places!' shouted the Queen in a voice of thunder,
and people began running about in all directions, tumbling up
against each other; however, they got settled down in a minute or
two, and the game began.  Alice thought she had never seen such a
curious croquet-ground in her life; it was all ridges and
furrows; the balls were live hedgehogs, the mallets live
flamingoes, and the soldiers had to double themselves up and to
stand on their hands and feet, to make the arches.

  The chief difficulty Alice found at first was in managing her
flamingo:  she succeeded in getting its body tucked away,
comfortably enough, under her arm, with its legs hanging down,
but generally, just as she had got its neck nicely straightened
out, and was going to give the hedgehog a blow with its head, it
WOULD twist itself round and look up in her face, with such a
puzzled expression that she could not help bursting out laughing:
and when she had got its head down, and was going to begin again,
it was very provoking to find that the hedgehog had unrolled
itself, and was in the act of crawling away:  besides all this,
there was generally a ridge or furrow in the way wherever she
wanted to send the hedgehog to, and, as the doubled-up soldiers
were always getting up and walking off to other parts of the
ground, Alice soon came to the conclusion that it was a very
difficult game indeed.

  The players all played at once without waiting for turns,
quarrelling all the while, and fighting for the hedgehogs; and in
a very short time the Queen was in a furious passion, and went
stamping about, and shouting `Off with his head!' or `Off with
her head!' about once in a minute.

  Alice began to feel very uneasy:  to be sure, she had not as
yet had any dispute with the Queen, but she knew that it might
happen any minute, `and then,' thought she, `what would become of
me?  They're dreadfully fond of beheading people here; the great
wonder is, that there's any one left alive!'

  She was looking about for some way of escape, and wondering
whether she could get away without being seen, when she noticed a
curious appearance in the air:  it puzzled her very much at
first, but, after watching it a minute or two, she made it out to
be a grin, and she said to herself `It's the Cheshire Cat:  now I
shall have somebody to talk to.'

  `How are you getting on?' said the Cat, as soon as there was
mouth enough for it to speak with.

  Alice waited till the eyes appeared, and then nodded.  `It's no
use speaking to it,' she thought, `till its ears have come, or at
least one of them.'  In another minute the whole head appeared,
and then Alice put down her flamingo, and began an account of the
game, feeling very glad she had someone to listen to her.  The
Cat seemed to think that there was enough of it now in sight, and
no more of it appeared.

  `I don't think they play at all fairly,' Alice began, in rather
a complaining tone, `and they all quarrel so dreadfully one can't
hear oneself speak--and they don't seem to have any rules in
particular; at least, if there are, nobody attends to them--and
you've no idea how confusing it is all the things being alive;
for instance, there's the arch I've got to go through next
walking about at the other end of the ground--and I should have
croqueted the Queen's hedgehog just now, only it ran away when it
saw mine coming!'

  `How do you like the Queen?' said the Cat in a low voice.

  `Not at all,' said Alice:  `she's so extremely--'  Just then
she noticed that the Queen was close behind her, listening:  so
she went on, `--likely to win, that it's hardly worth while
finishing the game.'

  The Queen smiled and passed on.

  `Who ARE you talking to?' said the King, going up to Alice, and
looking at the Cat's head with great curiosity.

  `It's a friend of mine--a Cheshire Cat,' said Alice:  `allow me
to introduce it.'

  `I don't like the look of it at all,' said the King:  `however,
it may kiss my hand if it likes.'

  `I'd rather not,' the Cat remarked.

  `Don't be impertinent,' said the King, `and don't look at me
like that!'  He got behind Alice as he spoke.

  `A cat may look at a king,' said Alice.  `I've read that in
some book, but I don't remember where.'

  `Well, it must be removed,' said the King very decidedly, and
he called the Queen, who was passing at the moment, `My dear!  I
wish you would have this cat removed!'

  The Queen had only one way of settling all difficulties, great
or small.  `Off with his head!' she said, without even looking
round.

  `I'll fetch the executioner myself,' said the King eagerly, and
he hurried off.

  Alice thought she might as well go back, and see how the game
was going on, as she heard the Queen's voice in the distance,
screaming with passion.  She had already heard her sentence three
of the players to be executed for having missed their turns, and
she did not like the look of things at all, as the game was in
such confusion that she never knew whether it was her turn or
not.  So she went in search of her hedgehog.

  The hedgehog was engaged in a fight with another hedgehog,
which seemed to Alice an excellent opportunity for croqueting one
of them with the other:  the only difficulty was, that her
flamingo was gone across to the other side of the garden, where
Alice could see it trying in a helpless sort of way to fly up
into a tree.

  By the time she had caught the flamingo and brought it back,
the fight was over, and both the hedgehogs were out of sight:
`but it doesn't matter much,' thought Alice, `as all the arches
are gone from this side of the ground.'  So she tucked it away
under her arm, that it might not escape again, and went back for
a little more conversation with her friend.

  When she got back to the Cheshire Cat, she was surprised to
find quite a large crowd collected round it:  there was a dispute
going on between the executioner, the King, and the Queen, who
were all talking at once, while all the rest were quite silent,
and looked very uncomfortable.

  The moment Alice appeared, she was appealed to by all three to
settle the question, and they repeated their arguments to her,
though, as they all spoke at once, she found it very hard indeed
to make out exactly what they said.

  The executioner's argument was, that you couldn't cut off a
head unless there was a body to cut it off from:  that he had
never had to do such a thing before, and he wasn't going to begin
at HIS time of life.

  The King's argument was, that anything that had a head could be
beheaded, and that you weren't to talk nonsense.

  The Queen's argument was, that if something wasn't done about
it in less than no time she'd have everybody executed, all round.
(It was this last remark that had made the whole party look so
grave and anxious.)

  Alice could think of nothing else to say but `It belongs to the
Duchess:  you'd better ask HER about it.'

  `She's in prison,' the Queen said to the executioner:  `fetch
her here.'  And the executioner went off like an arrow.

   The Cat's head began fading away the moment he was gone, and,
by the time he had come back with the Dutchess, it had ARGMESXA
KDLEZSQYESR; VM ZRS VDDF LAC GRS YSQRMFHIRAW SLA DOVNXA HF LAW
WIDW XUIYUDP ZHW MG, ROUVQ PRS ESBP UZ PMS HENZQ RYCF LQDQ ZM PMK PQUY.



                           RMEFPQD HV

                     PMQ HMWQ GHNFBS'P BPHWX


  `XWM NLA'Z BMHDA MID ZFLK D QU ZM PSQ KIO KFKUW, AIO RKEN UXW
PMUDP!' VKUC GRS NIRMSPL, EB VRS FMDQKR RSN ECH LUPAQMHIALPQXA
UDZM LFMDS'P, LAC GRSX YLFEQW IZL ZMPKPMSE.

  LFMDY REL SKWE FVKN ZM GUWR RSD HR LMNU E FSQYLECF PQHTSE, LAW
PMIOPIZ BI MSEPSFU PMQF HSEREFV HZ CEL UWXA PMS HSHHSC PUEP MKN
UQRK RSE PH XKLKFY RRSC FRSQ OQP UD PMQ EMGRMAR.

  `ROAR H'U K NMNRSBV,' PRS PKUC GI MSEPSFU, (WUG MA L SKWE
MIHSUNB FUWQ PMIIFM), `H YWC'F UESK LAE ZSHHSD HC UK EMGRMAR QF
LFX.  BIOG RHYB SSEX YASX NMGMIMF--UQQXK HP'B LFNYEX HSZSSE PMQF
UQEQP HYHFSS RMZ-PQHTSEKR,' PRY RARZ MD, LSEQ OMNR HSAELKR QF
UEGDDF ZUNAW IMF L AYR VDWR UZ NHSA, `LAK GUDKPEN PMQF UQEQB PRSO
XHHN--LAR NQUIUUVQ PUEM CYESP PMQH VMZBSE--LAN--KWR LQNSQK-LHFKW
LAR VMNM PMHDFB PUEM CYEQ RMHVNESR LRYQP-PQHTSEKR.  H IAFX YHVO
HSHZSA ADYR PMQF:  PMAR PMQK YWNFRW'M TS PH XGMDFK YXMMF MG, XWO
ADWY--'

  PRS RKN AMMGA PHWZIZBAR PMK RMNRSBV XQ PMHV GMHQ, LAR DEL Y
VUZBSA BPENFBKR ROAR PRS RQYCR RSD SIHRQ NBHXQ PI MSE QYW.
`XWH'NQ PMHDAUDF KXMMF XHHQPMUDT, IK WQYN, EWR PMQF UQEQX EIO
ZUDPQP ZM FQVA.  M DLA'Z BASX AIO HOBP WUY ZUEZ BRS UINEX UZ FUEZ
HV, LMG M PRLFS NQHQHSQD HG MA L VMZ.'

  `HSEREFV HP MELC'F UWQ,' YVURQ SKCFHNKR ZM ESUQDE.

  `FMZ, BMF, RMUVR!' VKUC GRS NIRMSPP.  `SSKWEPMUDP'V ZIF Q
UINEV, UZ UAFX ZIO NQA UUDK DF.'  QWR PRS PAMYSPYR ISEPSFU HF
NBHXSE ZM LFMDS'P VHRK EL PRS PZHEQ.

  LFMDK RDK WUM CMNU SDVQ EYSGHDF XH NBHXQ PI MSE:  GUEPZ,
SQNQHLQ PRS NIRMSPX REL SKWE IFXA; LAR VQRUWNVQ, XQRLNPS PRY REL
YSQNFBQ ZRS DHPIP MKHPIZ BH WSPP MSE RMUD HFUW LFMDS'P PRIOVNSE,
LAK DZ CEL LA NAWMUTHWFQLXE XUEEH RMUD.  MIRYSKE, PRS KDR WMZ
VUEQ ZM SQ NHRK, XH PRQ SHWK HF QX RASF LB VRS WMNFW.

  `PMK PQUS'P ZIUDZ IW CQFRSC SQPPQC WWY,' PRS PKUC, VX YYK UZ
EQSHUDF IT FRS WMDLSELEGMUW L FMGFBY.

  `'GMB VH,' XKUC GRS NIRMSPL:  `EWR PMQ HHWLF UZ PMQF HV--"IM,
'GMB XIXQ, 'PHV XUSK, PMQF UQEQB PRS YWNSK IH WIOWR!"'

  `XHHQXMWK LEDK,' LFMDY RMHPHSEKR, `PMQF MG'V RUWQ SK QSKWEXMWK
UHWRUDP FRSHD WYC LHLUDSPB!'

  `EU, RYXV!  MG HQLAB HMNM PRS LEHQ PMUDP,' VKUC GRS NIRMSPB,
KDZVUDP ISE PRENF SMGFBQ RMHD UCFU YVURQ'B VMINFRKN EB VRS KNRKW,
`LAC GRS UINEX UZ FUEG MB--"PYEQ RENY HZ FRS PSRLQ, YWR PMY
XHNARV DOXV FQEQ NQES UZ PMQHPSXSSP."'

  `MIN ZUWR VRS HV UZ GUWRUDT IHWLFV HC FMHDFL!' EVURQ PMIOPIZ BW
RSEPASZ.

  `D KENS PYK XWH'NY RUWRKDHDF ROK O WIC'F FHM CK YCH WHNAW KIOW
NYHVZ,' BRS NIRMSPB VKUN KZFSE E FLNPS:  `PMS EQYXHD UB, PUEG M'O
WIMLFZNF QLIOZ BRS PQHTSE UZ XWHN UFQUUDZI.  PRLFV U PCQ ZRS
YSHSDHHQCF?'

  `RS UHPIM TMGQ,' YVURQ NQMFHIHLXA ESFSHKR, WMZ PAASUDF KF QXV
LAVOIOB PI MKLQ PRS YSHSDHHQCF PCHKW.

  `SKWE PCHA,' LEDK PMK RMNRSBV:  `UFQUUDZISP LAC IHLFQCR XMPM
VMPQ.  LAC GRS UINEX UZ FUEG MB--"LHDRV UZ L UQYPMSE UFMWY
ZMPKPMSE."'

  `UWXA UOBPENK DLR'F Q VMCR,' LFMDS EQHENEQW.

  `DHPIF, QL HLHLF,' LEDK PMK RMNRSBV:  `ROQF Q NSAEN NYX ZIO
UESK UZ FHZBUDP FMHDFB!'

  `MG'L E UHRANEV, U PMUDE,' VKUN KVURQ.

  `UZ WMHNPS MG HV,' LEDK PMK RMNRSBV, ROH XYSHQR CQYWK ZM KFESY
ZM KSSEQZMHDF PMQF LFMDS PKUC; `GRSES'L E FLDPQ HHLFQCR-UHRA RAEN
RSES.  LAC GRS UINEX UZ FUEG MB--"PRS UIES PMSEK HX HT UUDQ, PRS
SABV PMSEK HX HZ AIOEP."'

  `IM, D VWUR!' YBWFLHUKR LFMDY, RMI UER WMZ QFPQWRKR ZM PMHV
FLBP ESUQDE, `MG'L E SKPKFQLXK.  HG CHYLR'F BWZA VDVY HRA, LMG MZ
HV.'

  `M KOHPQ KFESY RMGO EIO,' LEDK PMK RMNRSBV; `LAC GRS UINEX UZ
PMQF HV--"SQ ROQF XWO NIOVN PSQH ZM SQ"--HW UG XWI'N VUEQ MG FHZ
UIES VHHTXA--"RASKD HUQIDRA XWHNPSFU WUZ BM XY HPMSEDOPS PMLA
ROQF MG UHPIF QZSQYC PW ZPMSEB PUEZ CUEZ QIO RYES HW UHPIP MKLY
SQAR NYL RMZ MZRSCDHVQ PUEW DUEZ QIO UEC VYSW DIOVN UESK EFHSENKR
ZM PMQH ZM SQ MZRSCDHVY."'

  `M GMHDA H VMINFN IWRSEBPLAC GUEM TQPPQN,' EVURQ LEDK SKWE
ZHVUPQXA, `UG H MKN MG DCMGPQW RWYC:  LMF M DLA'M BOHPQ ZUXVWY MG
EL XWH LYK MG.'

  `PMQF'L RMZMHDF ZM ROQF M DIOVN LEK OG U RMHXQ,' PRS NIRMSPB
ESFSHKK, DA L FSQYPSC GUWY.

  `HEYK WIC'F PCIOLXQ KIOEPASZ FH XYK MG LAA XUWPKC PUEC FUEZ,'
LEDK LFMDY.

  `IM, WIC'F FQVA QLIOZ BWHMLSA!' LEDK PMK RMNRSBV.  `H UYEQ KIO
E FESPSCF UZ KSSEQZMHDF D'GS PKUN KX EQP.'

  `Q NRSEF XHCP UZ HESPARZ!' BMIIFMP LFMDK.  `H'I TFLC GRSK WUW'Z
IDSK VMCPIRYK HESPARPB VUEQ PMQF!'  LMP BRS KDR WMZ SKCFHNQ PW
LEK OZ MMF XUIN.

  `PMUDVDDF KFKUC?' FRS NIRMSPL EVEKR, DOPM LAMZRSC RDI UZ RSW
PRENF SMGFBQ RMHW.

  `D'GQ Y DHPIZ BM ZMHDA,' LEDK LFMDS PUEEHXA, ZUE PRS NYB
SQIDWLUDP FU ZYSF L VUZBSA YWWSHKW.

  `HOBP QLIOF QB HMNR EDIMP,' LEDK PMK RMNRSBV, `EL GHPV UESK ZM
UFK; YWR PMQ H--'

  LMP MSEQ, PU YVURQ'V PESQF LHEHDHPS, PMK RMNRSBV'B SIHRQ KDKR
YNYK, KSAR UD PMQ HDKNVY HP USE ULXIHNMGY RHWC `IHWLF,' LAC GRS
ENC MUEZ CEL VUDAKR UDZM RSEP SQFKC FM ZESCTSA.  LFMDA SWZEQN IZ,
LAC GRSES BPWZC GRS AMYSD UA UWHCF UZ PMQH, DOPM RSN ECHL PUXRKW,
PNWYDUDF VUEQ Q FMOWRSEBPHWO.

  `L UUDK RYK, XWHN UQHKBPQ!' ZRS NIRMSPB LKPLA UD L FWY, RYYE
XIMDY.

  `WUD, O IDSK XWN UKUC DENDUDF,' PRIOPQC GRS AMYSR, LFQHTUDZ IW
PMK PWHNAN KB VRS PHIYY; `SMGRSW EIO HW XWHN RSKN UOBP SQ UZZ,
LAC GUEG MA LXMMF UEFU WU GMHQ!  FQEQ XWHN RMIHRQ!'

  PMK RMNRSBV ZMIY RSC NMIMDQ, YWR NYV PUWK HA L UIHQCF.

  `SAP'B ZI UW DOPM PMK PQUQ,' PRS AMYSR LKUC GU YVURQ; LAN KVURQ
NYB PWZ UORM PNDIMPARKR ZM LEK Y YWCR, LMP BXUNXA ZUXXURYR ISE
LQDQ ZM PMQ RWHAMQP-PDIOWR.

  PMY HPMSE FISPPB UEC GYEAR KNLKCFKFY HZ FRS AMYSR'L QLPSWNY,
LAR DSES ESPGMDF UD PMS PUERK:  MIRYSKC, PRS UIHQCF PMQK LER OSE,
PMQK MOWSHKC VQNQ GM ZRS FKHQ, PMQ AHAAR HQESXA ESUQDEUDP FUEF Q
UIHQCF'V RASYK YWNFR NHXZ BRSC MRSHD VUSKB.

  LFB FRS GMHQ PMQK RYES FSYKUDP FRS AMYSW LKSSE SAZF UZZ
AMENESXVUDZ DMGM PRS MZRSE HFLKQEP, LAR VMIMFUDZ `IZL DOPM MHB
RSKN!' HW `UZZ NMGO SSE RSKN!'  PMHXY RMIH BRS PSCFARRQR DSEY
FQEQD UCFM WHLZMWK XQ PMS PUXKDSEX, RMI UZ WMHNPS UEC GU XQYSK
UZT LKHDF ENRMSP ZM WI PMHV, XH PMQF XQ PMY SWR UZ UEFU LA MIHN
HW XH PMSEY RSEA RU YCNRSB XAPF, QWR LFB FRS FSYKSEP, SBWSHZ BRS
VDDF, PMQ AHAAR, LAN KVURQ, RYES UD NMBPIWK YWR NARKE PARPQWNY HZ
YSQRMFHIW.

  PMAR PMQ AHAAR SAZF UZT, AOHPQ IOZ MT LESQFU, EWR LEDK ZM
LFMDS, `RKLQ KIO PSAR PMQ HMWQ GHNFBQ KQP?'

  `WU,' LEDK LFMDK.  `H WIC'F KSAR ADWY ROQF Q UMWQ GHNFBK HB.'

  `MG'B PRS PMUDT IMWQ GHNFBS PIOG HB HKNA PWHH,' BKUC GRS AMYSW.

  `U DKSSE LEY WRA, HW RSENW IZ URA,' LEDK LFMDY.

  `WMHQ UW, PMAR,' LEDK PMQ AHAAR, `LAR IS PUEXV PQXV XWO MHV
MHBPHWX,'

