voice, to the company generally, `You are all pardoned.'  `Come,
THAT'S a good thing!' she said to herself, for she had felt quite
unhappy at the number of executions the Queen had ordered.

  They very soon came upon a Gryphon, lying fast asleep in the
sun.  (IF you don't know what a Gryphon is, look at the picture.)
`Up, lazy thing!' said the Queen, `and take this young lady to
see the Mock Turtle, and to hear his history.  I must go back and
see after some executions I have ordered'; and she walked off,
leaving Alice alone with the Gryphon.  Alice did not quite like
the look of the creature, but on the whole she thought it would
be quite as safe to stay with it as to go after that savage
Queen:  so she waited.

  The Gryphon sat up and rubbed its eyes:  then it watched the
Queen till she was out of sight:  then it chuckled.  `What fun!'
said the Gryphon, half to itself, half to Alice.

  `What IS the fun?' said Alice.

  `Why, SHE,' said the Gryphon.  `It's all her fancy, that:  they
never executes nobody, you know.  Come on!'

  `Everybody says "come on!" here,' thought Alice, as she went
slowly after it:  `I never was so ordered about in all my life,
never!'

  They had not gone far before they saw the Mock Turtle in the
distance, sitting sad and lonely on a little ledge of rock, and,
as they came nearer, Alice could hear him sighing as if his heart
would break.  She pitied him deeply.  `What is his sorrow?' she
asked the Gryphon, and the Gryphon answered, very nearly in the
same words as before, `It's all his fancy, that:  he hasn't got
no sorrow, you know.  Come on!'

  So they went up to the Mock Turtle, who looked at them with
large eyes full of tears, but said nothing.

  `This here young lady,' said the Gryphon, `she wants for to
know your history, she do.'

  `I'll tell it her,' said the Mock Turtle in a deep, hollow
tone:  `sit down, both of you, and don't speak a word till I've
finished.'

  So they sat down, and nobody spoke for some minutes.  Alice
thought to herself, `I don't see how he can EVEN finish, if he
doesn't begin.'  But she waited patiently.

  `Once,' said the Mock Turtle at last, with a deep sigh, `I was
a real Turtle.'

  These words were followed by a very long silence, broken only
by an occasional exclamation of `Hjckrrh!' from the Gryphon, and
the constant heavy sobbing of the Mock Turtle.  Alice was very
nearly getting up and saying, `Thank you, sir, for your
interesting story,' but she could not help thinking there MUST be
more to come, so she sat still and said nothing.

  `When we were little,' the Mock Turtle went on at last, more
calmly, though still sobbing a little now and then, `we went to
school in the sea.  The master was an old Turtle--we used to call
him Tortoise--'

  `Why did you call him Tortoise, if he wasn't one?' Alice asked.

  `We called him Tortoise because he taught us,' said the Mock
Turtle angrily:  `really you are very dull!'

  `You ought to be ashamed of yourself for asking such a simple
question,' added the Gryphon; and then they both sat silent and
looked at poor Alice, who felt ready to sink into the earth.  At
last the Gryphon said to the Mock Turtle, `Drive on, old fellow!
Don't be all day about it!' and he went on in these words:

  `Yes, we went to school in the sea, though you mayn't believe
it--'

  `I never said I didn't!' interrupted Alice.

  `You did,' said the Mock Turtle.

  `Hold your tongue!' added the Gryphon, before Alice could speak
again.  The Mock Turtle went on.

  `We had the best of educations--in fact, we went to school
every day--'

  `I'VE been to a day-school, too,' said Alice; `you needn't be
so proud as all that.'

  `With extras?' asked the Mock Turtle a little anxiously.

  `Yes,' said Alice, `we learned French and music.'

  `And washing?' said the Mock Turtle.

  `Certainly not!' said Alice indignantly.

  `Ah! then yours wasn't a really good school,' said the Mock
Turtle in a tone of great relief.  `Now at OURS they had at the
end of the bill, "French, music, AND WASHING--extra."'

  `You couldn't have wanted it much,' said Alice; `living at the
bottom of the sea.'

  `I couldn't afford to learn it.' said the Mock Turtle with a
sigh.  `I only took the regular course.'

  `What was that?' inquired Alice.

  `Reeling and Writhing, of course, to begin with,' the Mock
Turtle replied; `and then the different branches of Arithmetic--
Ambition, Distraction, Uglification, and Derision.'

  `I never heard of "Uglification,"' Alice ventured to say.  `What
is it?'

  The Gryphon lifted up both its paws in surprise.  `What!  Never
heard of uglifying!' it exclaimed.  `You know what to beautify
is, I suppose?'

  `Yes,' said Alice doubtfully:  `it means--to--make--anything--
prettier.'

  `Well, then,' the Gryphon went on, `if you don't know what to
uglify is, you ARE a simpleton.'

  Alice did not feel encouraged to ask any more questions about
it, so she turned to the Mock Turtle, and said `What else had you
to learn?'

  `Well, there was Mystery,' the Mock Turtle replied, counting
off the subjects on his flappers, `--Mystery, ancient and modern,
with Seaography:  then Drawling--the Drawling-master was an old
conger-eel, that used to come once a week:  HE taught us
Drawling, Stretching, and Fainting in Coils.'

  `What was THAT like?' said Alice.

  `Well, I can't show it you myself,' the Mock Turtle said:  `I'm
too stiff.  And the Gryphon never learnt it.'

  `Hadn't time,' said the Gryphon:  `I went to the Classics
master, though.  He was an old crab, HE was.'

  `I never went to him,' the Mock Turtle said with a sigh:  `he
taught Laughing and Grief, they used to say.'

  `So he did, so he did,' said the Gryphon, sighing in his turn;
and both creatures hid their faces in their paws.

  `And how many hours a day did you do lessons?' said Alice, in a
hurry to change the subject.

  `Ten hours the first day,' said the Mock Turtle: `nine the
next, and so on.'

  `What a curious plan!' exclaimed Alice.

  `That's the reason they're called lessons,' the Gryphon
remarked:  `because they lessen from day to day.'

  This was quite a new idea to Alice, and she thought it over a
little before she made her next remark.  `Then the eleventh day
must have been a holiday?'

  `Of course it was,' said the Mock Turtle.

  `And how did you manage on the twelfth?' Alice went on eagerly.

  `That's enough about lessons,' the Gryphon interrupted in a
very decided tone:  `tell her something about the games now.'



                            CHAPTER X

                      The Lobster Quadrille


  The Mock Turtle sighed deeply, and drew the back of one flapper
across his eyes.  He looked at Alice, and tried to speak, but for
a minute or two sobs choked his voice.  `Same as if he had a bone
in his throat,' said the Gryphon:  and it set to work shaking him
and punching him in the back.  At last the Mock Turtle recovered
his voice, and, with tears running down his cheeks, he went on
again:--

  `You may not have lived much under the sea--' (`I haven't,'
said Alice)--`and perhaps you were never even introduced to a lobster--'
(Alice began to say `I once tasted--' but checked herself hastilA,
LAR VKUR `WU, WKSSE') `--XH XWM NLA UESK WU DKQY ROQF K NASDIMPUNX
PMUDF K XULBPQC ENLRCUVSA HV!'

  `WU, UDRKKR,' LEDK LFMDY.  `RUEP BHWZ MU L NKWNK HV HZ?'

  `ROE,' XKUC GRS PDEZMIW, `AIO GUEPF ZHWU HCFU Y VURA LFUWP FRS
PSE-LMIES--'

  `ZCU XUDSP!' NCHKC GRS UIDQ FMCPSA.  `PSLFB, PHNFBSP, LEBUUW,
LAR VW ZC; FRSW, DRSW AIO'SK NBQYESN KXV PMK HASXA-GUPR IOZ MZ
PMY RYK--'

  `PMQF PKRANEXVQ ZYESP XHHQ GMHQ,' UDPQWSHFPQC GRS PDEZMIW.

  `--XWN LKGLARQ ZCMDY--'

  `QYRM DOPM L FMXBPSE EL E FENFCSE!' NCHKC GRS PDEZMIW.

  `UZ WMHNPS,' PMQ HMWQ GHNFBS PKUN:  `KKGLARQ ZCMDS, PQP ZM
FECPRAEP--'

  `--RMLAPK XULBPQEP, LAR CQPHDK HR LQUY HCRSE,' WMCFUDHAC GRS
PDEZMIW.

  `PMAR, XWI AWUC,' ZRS UIDQ FMCPSA RYCF UW, `XWM FREWY PMY--'

  `PMA SMXBPSEB!' VMIMFKR PMK PWEHRUW, DOPM Q LIOWR UDZM PMQ YHD.

  `--EL ULW HMF ZM PSY LX EIO NQW--'

  `XRHU LUPQC PRSH!' BNCQYHQC GRS PDEZMIW.

  `FMCW E LIUSELENFG MC FRS PSQ!' NDHKR PMQ HMWQ GHNFBY,
NQHSDHDF DOVNXA QLIOZ.

  `LQDQ ZM FLWR KFKUA, LWR PMQF'L EXV PMA PHDBP GUFIES,' LEDK PMY
UIDQ FMCPSA, LHWVARXA RCHZGHDF MHB SIHRQ; LAC GRS ZCM WESQFHNSP,
ROI MKN SQAR HOHTUDF KXMMF VUEQ UQC GMHDFL EXV PMHV GMHQ, LEZ
WIDW KFKUD LSEE XKNXA LAC KOHQPXA, LAN VWZEQN KF QVURQ.

  `MG UOBP SQ K LSEE ZESZBK WLARQ,' LEDK LFMDQ PHUDKXA.

  `YWNFW KIO VUEQ ZM PSQ Y VUZBSA UZ MG?' LEDK PMQ HMWQ GHNFBY.

  `SKWE UORM UDRKKR,' LEDK LFMDY.

  `WMHQ, SAP'B PCQ ZRS GUEPF ZDIHNS!' PKUC GRS UIDQ FMCPSA ZM PMY
PDEZMIW.  `DQ RLA WI DOPMIOF BMXBPSEX, EIO ADWY.  ROMDR PUEXV
VHDF?'

  `IM, XWH LUDP,' VKUC GRS PDEZMID.  `U'SK ZUDPMZPQC FRS YWCRB.'

  XH PMQK SQFKR LUXQHAFK WLADMDF WHNAN KWR WHNAN KVURQ, KSSEA WWY
LAC GRSC FESKNUDZ IR USE ZMSP ROAR PMQK FEBVKR ZMM WXUPS, LAW
NYGDDF PMKHN PHWSHYNB PI UENQ GRS GMHQ, ROUVQ PRS UIDQ FMCPSA
LEDF PMHV, SKWE BXWYXA LAR VKNXA:--


`"DOXV XWO NLFE Y VUZBSA ULBPSE?" LEDK Y NMHGMDF ZM E LALUV.
"PMSES'P E FHWZHHVQ RXUPS SQMHWR HL, LAR IS'P PCQYKDDF UW OQ
 FQUV.
PSS RWY QYPKNSQ ZRS XULBPQEP LAC GRS FMCPSAL EXV KNLKWNY!
PMQK ENY RKUGMDF UW PMS PMHDFSA--DOXV XWM NIUQ YWR HIUD PMY
NKWNY?

DOXV XWO, NUW'Z QIO, DOXV XWO, NUW'Z QIO, DOXV XWO HIHC FRS
NKWNY?
DOXV XWO, NUW'Z QIO, DOXV XWO, NUW'Z QIO, YWC'F XWO HIHC FRS
NKWNY?


"XWM NLA ESLFXA UESK WU WUGMUW MID RASDIMPUNV UZ CUVX LY
ROAR PMQK FQEQ HL HF LAC GREWY HL, DOPM PMA SMXBPSEX, HMF ZM
                                                      PSY!"
LMZ BRS LRKUS NSHVUKR "ZMU ZEN, ZMU ZEN!" LAK IKLQ Y XUIY
                                                       ELEYWNY--
LEDK RS PMLAEQC GRS ROMGUDI VUDNVQ, XMF RS YWNFR WMZ HIUD PMY
   NKWNY.
    YWNFR WMZ, WMNFR WMZ, YWNFR WMZ, WMNFR WMZ, YWNFR WMZ HIUD
        PMK RLARQ.
    YWNFR WMZ, WMNFR WMZ, YWNFR WMZ, WMNFR WMZ, WMNFR WMZ HIUD
        PMK RLARQ.

`"ROQF UQZBSEV HP MWY ULC DK PI?" MHV BRLFA ZDHARR CSHVUKR.
"PMSEK HL EWUPMSE PRHWQ, KIO ADWY, HFUW PMY HPMSE VHRK.
PMA PHNPMSE UZZ LWHH QDFFLWR PMA RQYESD HB PU ZNEWNY--
PMAR FMCW WUF TLFQ, SASIXKR LRKUX, LMF WMHQ LAK DIHC FRS NKWNY.

    DOXV XWO, NUW'Z QIO, DOXV XWO, NUW'Z QIO, DOXV XWO HIHC FRS
         NKWNY?
    DOXV XWO, NUW'Z QIO, DOXV XWO, NUW'Z QIO, YWC'F XWO HIHC FRS
         NKWNY?"'



  `PMLAE KIO, MG'L E SKWE UDPQESBPUDI KLARQ ZM NYMQR,' PKUW
LFMDA, PYSVUDF SKWE FVKN PMQF MG NYX HSKN EF BELF:  `QWR D KH XW
VUEQ PMQF NMDHIOB VUWF KXMMF PMY RMHGMDF!'

  `IM, EL ZM PMY RMHGMDF,' LEDK PMQ HMWQ GHNFBQ, `PRSX--ZIO'SK
PSAR PMQH, UZ WMHNPS?'

  `KQB,' VKUN KVURQ, `D'GY HZFAR PSAR PMQH QF KDWL--' PRY
RMQREQR ISEPSFU UEBPUVX.

  `D KUW'G QWUY ZRSES KDWL UQQ XS,' PKUC GRS UIDQ FMCPSA, `LMZ
UG XWI'LS PYSC FRSH BW ZZFAR, UZ WMHNPS XWI AWUY ZUEZ BRSE'WY
VUEQ.'

  `M VASHKSK XH,' LFMDS ESHVUKR PMIOPIFZNFXA.  `PMQK UESK PMKHW
FQUVV HC FRSHD UIMFRP--LAC GRSE'WQ YXV IXSE NCOULB.'

  `XWH'NY RWHDF QLIOZ BRS NCOULB,' LEDK PMQ HMWQ GHNFBY:
`NCOULB YWNFN KXV NYPR UZG UC FRS PSQ.  LMF PMQK UESK PMKHC PKUXB
UD PMKHC HIOPML; EWR PMS EQYXHD UP--' RSEQ PRS UIDQ FMCPSA
KYDWKR LAR VMOP MHV QKSP.--`PQXV RSN EXMMF PMS EQYXHA LWR LFX
PMQF,' RS LEDK ZM PMK PWEHRUW.

  `PMS EQYXHD UB,' VKUC GRS PDEZMIC, `FUEZ BRSX YIOVN ZI DOPM
PMA SMXBPSEB PM ZRS NKWNS.  PM ZRSK ZMZ PMWHDW IOZ BH XQY.  XH
PMQK UEC GU ZLFF L XUDF NYE.  XM ZRSK ZMZ PMKHC PKUXB ULBP UD
PMKHC HIOPMB.  VM ZRSQ WIOVNC'F PKZ BRSU IMF KFKUC.  FUEP'B LFX.'

  `PMLAE KIO,' LEDK LFMDK, `HP'B SKWE UDPQESBPUDI.  D RASKD ERAY
XH UORM QLIOF Q ROMGUDT VAPHWY.'

  `M DLA PQXV XWO UHWQ PUEC FUEG, MZ AIO VUEQ,' LEDK PMY
PDEZMIW.  `RW XIO ADWY ROK OP'B NQXVKR Y NMHGMDF?'

  `U DKSSE PMIOPIF QXMMF MG,' LEDK LFMDY.  `ROE?'

  `MG WISP PMQ SWZPB LAR VMISP.' PMK PWEHRUW ESFSHKK GSEX
XHSAUCXA.

  LFMDY REL PMHWIOPIXA FHOZSAW.  `VHYB PRS XMMZL EWR PRHYB!' VRS
ESHSQFKR UD Y NUWRKDHDF ZMRA.

  `ROX, YUEF QES XWHN PRHYV RUWY RMGR?' PKUC GRS PDEZMID.  `U
HQLA, ROQF UQEQB PRSH BH XMHWA?'

  LFMDA SWZEQW VWYA LZ BRSU, QWR WMRLDKSEKR L FMGFBQ SAPHWS PRS
FKSK RSN ERLRYC.  `PRSE'WK RUWY RMGM SFLDQUDI, D SQVUKSY.'

  `XMMZL EWR PRHYL HWRSE PMS PQY,' PMK PWEHRUW RYCF UW UD K NYSZ
XIMDQ, `YES WIRA DOPM Y NMHGMDF.  WUY XIO ADWY.'

  `LAR DUEF QES PMQK UQRK UZ?' LFMDQ YVEKR UD Q FUWY HZ PESQF
NMDHHXMGX.

  `XHSAL EWR YSXB, UZ WMHNPS,' PMK PWEHRUW ESFSHKR CQFRSW
HUFEGMARFBK:  `YWA PRDHHT WMNFR IKLQ PUXW KIO PMQF.'

  `UG D'K SQAR PMY RMHGMDF,' LEDK LFMDY, RMIPS PMIOPIPB RYES
BPUVS NNADUDF UW PMS PUWI, `D'R IKLS PKUC GM ZRS ZHEHIHPS, "EQSH
LQDQ, FSQYPS:  RY WIC'F NYCF XWO NMGM OB!"'

  `PMQK RYES MXVUPKC GI MKLS RHU DOPM PMQH,' PMQ HMWQ GHNFBY
LEDK:  `WU DOPS GUPR YWNFK IU YWAROSEY RMGMIMF E FHWZHHVY.'

  `YWNFRW'G MP CQYXVE?' XKUN KVURQ UD Q FUWY HZ PESQF LHEHDHPS.

  `UZ WMHNPS WUP,' BKUC GRS UIDQ FMCPSA:  `ROK, OU L GUPR NQHQ
ZM HQ, LAC GUXC IS RY REL ZIUDF K HIHNRAK, O PRIOVN LEX "YMGO
ROQF ZHEHIHPS?"'

  `WIC'F XWO UQYR "FHNZHPS"?' LEDK LFMDY.

  `H UQYW DUEG M LEQ,' ZRS UIDQ FMCPSA ESFSHKK DA LW UZLARRKW
ZMRA.  LAC GRS PDEZMIA LWVKR `WMHQ, SAP'B RSEN XHHQ UZ XWHN
KNSKCFHNSP.'
