  `I could tell you my adventures--beginning from this morning,'
said Alice a little timidly:  `but it's no use going back to
yesterday, because I was a different person then.'

  `Explain all that,' said the Mock Turtle.

  `No, no!  The adventures first,' said the Gryphon in an
impatient tone:  `explanations take such a dreadful time.'

  So Alice began telling them her adventures from the time when
she first saw the White Rabbit.  She was a little nervous about
it just at first, the two creatures got so close to her, one on
each side, and opened their eyes and mouths so VERY wide, but she
gained courage as she went on.  Her listeners were perfectly
quiet till she got to the part about her repeating `YOU ARE OLD,
FATHER WILLIAM,' to the Caterpillar, and the words all coming
different, and then the Mock Turtle drew a long breath, and said
`That's very curious.'

  `It's all about as curious as it can be,' said the Gryphon.

  `It all came different!' the Mock Turtle repeated
thoughtfully.  `I should like to hear her try and repeat
something now.  Tell her to begin.'  He looked at the Gryphon as
if he thought it had some kind of authority over Alice.

  `Stand up and repeat "'TIS THE VOICE OF THE SLUGGARD,"' said
the Gryphon.

  `How the creatures order one about, and make one repeat
lessons!' thought Alice; `I might as well be at school at once.'
However, she got up, and began to repeat it, but her head was so
full of the Lobster Quadrille, that she hardly knew what she was
saying, and the words came very queer indeed:--

    `'Tis the voice of the Lobster; I heard him declare,
    "You have baked me too brown, I must sugar my hair."
    As a duck with its eyelids, so he with his nose
    Trims his belt and his buttons, and turns out his toes.'

              [later editions continued as follows
    When the sands are all dry, he is gay as a lark,
    And will talk in contemptuous tones of the Shark,
    But, when the tide rises and sharks are around,
    His voice has a timid and tremulous sound.]

  `That's different from what I used to say when I was a child,'
said the Gryphon.

  `Well, I never heard it before,' said the Mock Turtle; `but it
sounds uncommon nonsense.'

  Alice said nothing; she had sat down with her face in her
hands, wondering if anything would EVER happen in a natural way
again.

  `I should like to have it explained,' said the Mock Turtle.

  `She can't explain it,' said the Gryphon hastily.  `Go on with
the next verse.'

  `But about his toes?' the Mock Turtle persisted.  `How COULD
he turn them out with his nose, you know?'

  `It's the first position in dancing.' Alice said; but was
dreadfully puzzled by the whole thing, and longed to change the
subject.

  `Go on with the next verse,' the Gryphon repeated impatiently:
`it begins "I passed by his garden."'

  Alice did not dare to disobey, though she felt sure it would
all come wrong, and she went on in a trembling voice:--

    `I passed by his garden, and marked, with one eye,
    How the Owl and the Panther were sharing a pie--'

        [later editions continued as follows
    The Panther took pie-crust, and gravy, and meat,
    While the Owl had the dish as its share of the treat.
    When the pie was all finished, the Owl, as a boon,
    Was kindly permitted to pocket the spoon:
    While the Panther received knife and fork with a growl,
    And concluded the banquet--]

  `What IS the use of repeating all that stuff,' the Mock Turtle
interrupted, `if you don't explain it as you go on?  It's by far
the most confusing thing I ever heard!'

  `Yes, I think you'd better leave off,' said the Gryphon:  and
Alice was only too glad to do so.

  `Shall we try another figure of the Lobster Quadrille?' the
Gryphon went on.  `Or would you like the Mock Turtle to sing you
a song?'

  `Oh, a song, please, if the Mock Turtle would be so kind,'
Alice replied, so eagerly that the Gryphon said, in a rather
offended tone, `Hm! No accounting for tastes!  Sing her "Turtle
Soup," will you, old fellow?'

  The Mock Turtle sighed deeply, and began, in a voice sometimes
choked with sobs, to sing this:--


    `Beautiful Soup, so rich and green,
    Waiting in a hot tureen!
    Who for such dainties would not stoop?
    Soup of the evening, beautiful Soup!
    Soup of the evening, beautiful Soup!
        Beau--ootiful Soo--oop!
        Beau--ootiful Soo--oop!
    Soo--oop of the e--e--evening,
        Beautiful, beautiful Soup!

    `Beautiful Soup!  Who cares for fish,
    Game, or any other dish?
    Who would not give all else for two p
    ennyworth only of beautiful Soup?
    Pennyworth only of beautiful Soup?
        Beau--ootiful Soo--oop!
        Beau--ootiful Soo--oop!
    Soo--oop of the e--e--evening,
        Beautiful, beauti--FUL SOUP!'

  `Chorus again!' cried the Gryphon, and the Mock Turtle had
just begun to repeat it, when a cry of `The trial's beginning!'
was heard in the distance.

  `Come on!' cried the Gryphon, and, taking Alice by the hand,
it hurried off, without waiting for the end of the song.

  `What trial is it?' Alice panted as she ran; but the Gryphon
only answered `Come on!' and ran the faster, while more and more
faintly came, carried on the breeze that followed them, the
melancholy words:--

    `Soo--oop of the e--e--evening,
        Beautiful, beautiful Soup!'



                           CHAPTER XI

                      Who Stole the Tarts?


  The King and Queen of Hearts were seated on their throne when
they arrived, with a great crowd assembled about them--all sorts
of little birds and beasts, as well as the whole pack of cards:
the Knave was standing before them, in chains, with a soldier on
each side to guard him; and near the King was the White Rabbit,
with a trumpet in one hand, and a scroll of parchment in the
other.  In the very middle of the court was a table, with a large
dish of tarts upon it:  they looked so good, that it made Alice
quite hungry to look at them--`I wish they'd get the trial done,'
she thought, `and hand round the refreshments!'  But there seemed
to be no chance of this, so she began looking at everything about
her, to pass away the time.

  Alice had never been in a court of justice before, but she had
read about them in books, and she was quite pleased to find that
she knew the name of nearly everything there.  `That's the
judge,' she said to herself, `because of his great wig.'

  The judge, by the way, was the King; and as he wore his crown
over the wig, (look at the frontispiece if you want to see how he
did it,) he did not look at all comfortable, and it was certainly
not becoming.

  `And that's the jury-box,' thought Alice, `and those twelve
creatures,' (she was obliged to say `creatures,' you see, because
some of them were animals, and some were birds,) `I suppose they
are the jurors.'  She said this last word two or three times over
to herself, being rather proud of it:  for she thought, and
rightly too, that very few little girls of her age knew the
meaning of it at all.  However, `jury-men' would have done just
as well.

  The twelve jurors were all writing very busily on slates.
`What are they doing?'  Alice whispered to the Gryphon.  `They
can't have anything to put down yet, before the trial's begun.'

  `They're putting down their names,' the Gryphon whispered in
reply, `for fear they should forget them before the end of the
trial.'

  `Stupid things!' Alice began in a loud, indignant voice, but
she stopped hastily, for the White Rabbit cried out, `Silence in
the court!' and the King put on his spectacles and looked
anxiously round, to make out who was talking.

  Alice could see, as well as if she were looking over their
shoulders, that all the jurors were writing down `stupid things!'
on their slates, and she could even make out that one of them
didn't know how to spell `stupid,' and that he had to ask his
neighbour to tell him.  `A nice muddle their slates'll be in
before the trial's over!' thought Alice.

  One of the jurors had a pencil that squeaked.  This of course,
Alice could not stand, and she went round the court and got
behind him, and very soon found an opportunity of taking it
away.  She did it so quickly that the poor little juror (it was
Bill, the Lizard) could not make out at all what had become of
it; so, after hunting all about for it, he was obliged to write
with one finger for the rest of the day; and this was of very
little use, as it left no mark on the slate.

  `Herald, read the accusation!' said the King.

  On this the White Rabbit blew three blasts on the trumpet, and
then unrolled the parchment scroll, and read as follows:--

    `The Queen of Hearts, she made some tarts,
          All on a summer day:
      The Knave of Hearts, he stole those tarts,
          And took them quite away!'

  `Consider your verdict,' the King said to the jury.

  `Not yet, not yet!' the Rabbit hastily interrupted.  `There's
a great deal to come before that!'

  `Call the first witness,' said the King; and the White Rabbit
blew three blasts on the trumpet, and called out, `First
witness!'

  The first witness was the Hatter.  He came in with a teacup in
one hand and a piece of bread-and-butter in the other.  `I beg
pardon, your Majesty,' he began, `for bringing these in:  but I
hadn't quite finished my tea when I was sent for.'

  `You ought to have finished,' said the King.  `When did you
begin?'

  The Hatter looked at the March Hare, who had followed him into
the court, arm-in-arm with the Dormouse.  `Fourteenth of March, I
think it was,' he said.

  `Fifteenth,' said the March Hare.

  `Sixteenth,' added the Dormouse.

  `Write that down,' the King said to the jury, and the jury
eagerly wrote down all three dates on their slates, and then
added them up, and reduced the answer to shillings and pence.

  `Take off your hat,' the King said to the Hatter.

  `It isn't mine,' said the Hatter.

  `Stolen!' the King exclaimed, turning to the jury, who
instantly made a memorandum of the fact.

  `I keep them to sell,' the Hatter added as an explanation;
`I've none of my own.  I'm a hatter.'

  Here the Queen put on her spectacles, and began staring at the
Hatter, who turned pale and fidgeted.

  `Give your evidence,' said the King; `and don't be nervous, or
I'll have you executed on the spot.'

  This did not seem to encourage the witness at all:  he kept
shifting from one foot to the other, looking uneasily at the
Queen, and in his confusion he bit a large piece out of his
teacup instead of the bread-and-butter.

  Just at this moment Alice felt a very curious sensation, which
puzzled her a good deal until she made out what it was:  she was
beginning to grow larger again, and she thought at first she
would get up and leave the court; but on second thoughts she
decided to remain where she was as long as there was room for
her.

  `I wish you wouldn't squeeze so.' said the Dormouse, who was
sitting next to her.  `I can hardly breathe.'

  `I can't help it,' said Alice very meekly:  `I'm growing.'

  `You've no right to grow here,' said the Dormouse.

  `Don't talk nonsense,' said Alice more boldly:  `you know
you're growing too.'

  `Yes, but I grow at a reasonable pace,' said the Dormouse:
`not in that ridiculous fashion.'  And he got up very sulkily
and crossed over to the other side of the court.

  All this time the Queen had never left off staring at the
Hatter, and, just as the Dormouse crossed the court, she said to
one of the officers of the court, `Bring me the list of the
singers in the last concert!' on which the wretched Hatter
trembled so, that he shook both his shoes off.

  `Give your evidence,' the King repeated angrily, `or I'll have
you executed, whether you're nervous or not.'

  `I'm a poor man, your Majesty,' the Hatter began, in a
trembling voice, `--and I hadn't begun my tea--not above a week
or so--and what with the bread-and-butter getting so thin--and
the twinkling of the tea--'

  `The twinkling of the what?' said the King.

  `It began with the tea,' the Hatter replied.

  `Of course twinkling begins with a T!' said the King sharply.
`Do you take me for a dunce?  Go on!'

  `I'm a poor man,' the Hatter went on, `and most things
twinkled after that--only the March Hare said--'

  `I didn't!' the March Hare interrupted in a great hurry.

  `You did!' said the Hatter.

  `I deny it!' said the March Hare.

  `He denies it,' said the King:  `leave out that part.'

  `Well, at any rate, the Dormouse said--' the Hatter went on,
looking anxiously round to see if he would deny it too:  but the
Dormouse denied nothing, being fast asleep.

  `After that,' continued the Hatter, `I cut some more bread-
and-butter--'

  `But what did the Dormouse say?' one of the jury asked.

  `That I can't remember,' said the Hatter.

  `You MUST remember,' remarked the King, `or I'll have you
executed.'

  The miserable Hatter dropped his teacup and bread-and-butter,
and went down on one knee.  `I'm a poor man, your Majesty,' he
began.

  `You're a very poor speaker,' said the King.

  Here one of the guinea-pigs cheered, and was immediately
suppressed by the officers of the court.  (As that is rather a
hard word, I will just explain to you how it was done.  They had
a large canvas bag, which tied up at the mouth with strings:
into this they slipped the guinea-pig, head first, and then sat
upon it.)

  `I'm glad I've seen that done,' thought Alice.  `I've so often
read in the newspapers, at the end of trials, "There was some
attempts at applause, which was immediately suppressed by the
officers of the court," and I never understood what it meant
till now.'

  `If that's all you know about it, you may stand down,'
continued the King.

  `I can't go no lower,' said the Hatter:  `I'm on the floor, as
it is.'

  `Then you may SIT down,' the King replied.

  Here the other guinea-pig cheered, and was suppressed.

  `Come, that finished the guinea-pigs!' thought Alice.  `Now we
shall get on better.'

  `I'd rather finish my tea,' said the Hatter, with an anxious
look at the Queen, who was reading the list of singers.

  `You may go,' said the King, and the Hatter hurriedly left the
court, without even waiting to put his shoes on.

  `--and just take his head off outside,' the Queen added to one
of the officers:  but the Hatter was out of sight before the
officer could get to the door.

  `Call the next witness!' said the King.

  The next witness was the Duchess's cook.  She carried the
pepper-box in her hand, and Alice guessed who it was, even before
she got into the court, by the way the people near the door began
sneezing all at once.

  `Give your evidence,' said the King.

  `Shan't,' said the cook.

  The King looked anxiously at the White Rabbit, who said in a
low voice, `Your Majesty must cross-examine THIS witness.'

  `Well, if I must, I must,' the King said, with a melancholy
air, and, after folding his arms and frowning at the cook till
his eyes were nearly out of sight, he said in a deep voice, `What
are tarts made of?'

  `Pepper, mostly,' said the cook.

  `Treacle,' said a sleepy voice behind her.

  `Collar that Dormouse,' the Queen shrieked out.  `Behead that
Dormouse!  Turn that Dormouse out of court!  Suppress him!  Pinch
him!  Off with his whiskers!'

  For some minutes the whole court was in confusion, getting the
Dormouse turned out, and, by the time they had settled down
again, the cook had disappeared.

  `Never mind!' said the King, with an air of great relief.
`Call the next witness.'  And he added in an undertone to the
Queen, `Really, my dear, YOU must cross-examine the next witness.
It quite makes my forehead ache!'

  Alice watched the White Rabbit as he fumbled over the list,
feeling very curious to see what the next witness would be like,
`--for they haven't got much evidence YET,' she said to herself.
Imagine her surprise, when the White Rabbit read out, at the top
of his shrill little voice, the name `Alice!'



                           CHAPTER XII

                        Alice's Evidence


  `Here!' cried Alice, quite forgetting in the flurry of the
moment how large she had grown in the last few minutes, and she
jumped up in such a hurry that she tipped over the jury-box with
the edge of her skirt, upsetting all the jurymen on to the heads
of the crowd below, and there they lay sprawling about, reminding
her very much of a globe of goldfish she had accidentally upset
the week before.

  `Oh, I BEG your pardon!' she exclaimed in a tone of great
dismay, and began picking them up again as quickly as she could,
for the accident of the goldfish kept running in her head, and
she had a vague sort of idea that they must be collected at once
and put back into the jury-box, or they would die.

  `The trial cannot proceed,' said the King in a very grave
voice, `until all the jurymen are back in their proper places--
ALL,' he repeated with great emphasis, looking hard at Alice as
he said do.

  Alice looked at the jury-box, and saw that, in her haste, she
had put the Lizard in head downwards, and the poor little thing
was waving its tail about in a melancholy way, being quite unable
to move.  She soon got it out again, and put it right; `not that
it signifies much,' she said to herself; `I should think it
would be QUITE as much use in the trial one way up as the other.'

  As soon as the jury had a little recovered from the shock of
being upset, and their slates and pencils had been found and
handed back to them, they set to work very diligently to write
out a history of the accident, all except the Lizard, who seemed
too much overcome to do anything but sit with its mouth open,
gazing up into the roof of the court.

  `What do you know about this business?' the King said to
Alice.

  `Nothing,' said Alice.

  `Nothing WHATEVER?' persisted the King.

  `Nothing whatever,' said Alice.

  `That's very important,' the King said, turning to the jury.
They were just beginning to write this down on their slates, when
the White Rabbit interrupted:  `UNimportant, your Majesty means,
of course,' he said in a very respectful tone, but frowning and
making faces at him as he spoke.

  `UNimportant, of course, I meant,' the King hastily said, and
went on to himself in an undertone, `important--unimportant--
unimportant--important--' as if he were trying which word
sounded best.

  Some of the jury wrote it down `important,' and some
`unimportant.'  Alice could see this, as she was near enough to
look over their slates; `but it doesn't matter a bit,' she
thought to herself.

  At this moment the King, who had been for some time busily
writing in his note-book, cackled out `Silence!' and read out
from his book, `Rule Forty-two.  ALL PERSONS MORE THAN A MILE
HIGH TO LEAVE THE COURT.'

  Everybody looked at Alice.

  `I'M not a mile high,' said Alice.

  `You are,' said the King.

  `Nearly two miles high,' added the Queen.

  `Well, I shan't go, at any rate,' said Alice:  `besides,
that's not a regular rule:  you invented it just now.'

  `It's the oldest rule in the book,' said the King.

  `Then it ought to be Number One,' said Alice.

  The King turned pale, and shut his note-book hastily.
`Consider your verdict,' he said to the jury, in a low, trembling
voice.

  `There's more evidence to come yet, please your Majesty,' said
the White Rabbit, jumping up in a great hurry; `this paper has
just been picked up.'

  `What's in it?' said the Queen.

  `I haven't opened it yet,' said the White Rabbit, `but it seems
to be a letter, written by the prisoner to--to somebody.'

  `It must have been that,' said the King, `unless it was
written to nobody, which isn't usual, you know.'

  `Who is it directed to?' said one of the jurymen.

  `It isn't directed at all,' said the White Rabbit; `in fact,
there's nothing written on the OUTSIDE.'  He unfolded the paper
as he spoke, and added `It isn't a letter, after all:  it's a set
of verses.'

  `Are they in the prisoner's handwriting?' asked another of
they jurymen.

  `No, they're not,' said the White Rabbit, `and that's the
queerest thing about it.'  (The jury all looked puzzled.)

  `He must have imitated somebody else's hand,' said the King.
(The jury all brightened up again.)

  `Please your Majesty,' said the Knave, `I didn't write it, and
they can't prove I did:  there's no name signed at the end.'

  `If you didn't sign it,' said the King, `that only makes the
matter worse.  You MUST have meant some mischief, or else you'd
have signed your name like an honest man.'

  There was a general clapping of hands at this:  it was the
first really clever thing the King had said that day.

  `That PROVES his guilt,' said the Queen.

  `It proves nothing of the sort!' said Alice.  `Why, you don't
even know what they're about!'

  `Read them,' said the King.

  The White Rabbit put on his spectacles.  `Where shall I begin,
please your Majesty?' he asked.

  `Begin at the beginning,' the King said gravely, `and go on
till you come to the end:  then stop.'

  These were the verses the White Rabbit read:--

        `They told me you had been to her,
          And mentioned me to him:
        She gave me a good character,
          But said I could not swim.

        He sent them word I MKN WUF PUWY
          (RY ADWY MG ZM SQ PCHA):
        UG PRS PMINFR GHLM PRS UQZBSE UW,
          ROQF YWNFC VQRIUY HZ AIO?

        D IKLS RSE UWQ, PRSK ZKLS RHU ZCW,
          XWI FKLA HB PREYS HW UIES;
        PMQK LFS NQPHNRAN GWHU MHU ZM XWO,
          PMIOPI PMQK RYES UHRA SQZUES.

        UG H IE PRS PRIOVN RMLARQ ZM SQ
          UDXIXSKR UD PMHV LUULHD,
        RS PCHLPB ZM XWM FH XQP PMQH PNYS,
          YSQNFBK YX RY RSEY.

        OQ WUGMUW NYB PUEZ QIO UEC VYSW
          (SQZUES PRS RKN PMHV GUZ)
        LA MXBPQNSA PMQF NQHQ SQZCYSW
          MHU, QWR IOEPASSKL, EWR MG.

        WIC'F SAP MHU ADWY PRA SDVKR PMQH SQBP,
          ZUC PMHB HHLP QSKC SY
        E LQRESG, QSHF ZWHU QXV PMS ESPZ,
          SQZCYSW AIOEPASU LWR HQ.'

  `PMQF'B PRS UIBP HUZHCPLAF THKRQ UZ KSDKARRQ RY'SK RSENW KQP,'
LEDK PMQ EUDP, DMLVMDF MHP RLARV; `XH WUN XQP PMK HHNX--'

  `UG LAX WRA UZ PMQH NQR ASZFLUD MG,' LEDK LFMDS, (PRS UEW
PDWYR LU XENPK UD PMA SELF ZYR UHANPQB PUEP BRS NYLR'F Q VMZ
LUNEDK UZ UDPQWSHFGMDF MHU,) `H'XV IDSK MHH BOVHSWNK.  _H_ WIC'F
SQVUKSQ PRSES'L EA LZMU IT UQYDUDF UD MG.'

  PMK HHNK YXV DCMZK RWYW UC FRSHD BXQFSP, `PRK RHYLR'M TASHKSK
PMSES'P LA QFIU UZ HQLAUDI DD UM,' TMF WURA UZ PMQH QFPQHTPQC GW
YSFSKUC FRS FEHSW.

  `UG PMSES'P WU HQLAUDI DD UP,' BKUC GRS VDDF, `PMQF LESKL E
YWNSW IZ FWHMLSA, XWI AWUN, YX RA RYSRW'Z BWE ZM GUWR LAK.  YWR
KQG M WIC'F ADWY,' RS RYCF UW, PHESKNUDZ IMF PMK SSEPSX HR UHV
ADYS, LAN VWZVDDF QF PMQH DOPM UWY SKQ; `H VYSC MH XYS XHHQ
HQLAUDI DC FRSU, QZFSE LFX.  "--BKUK D WMNFR WMZ XRHU--" XWO
NQC'F XRHU, NQW AIO?' RS KNRKC, GHNDUDF ZM PMQ EALSK.

  PMQ EALSK PRWZE IHV RSKN LENVK.  `WI H XUIY VUEQ MG?' RS LEDK.
(ROMDO SQ RSEFQUDXA KDR WMZ, SQUDT IKNY SCFHDASX WT NENCVUYCR.)

  `LFS NDIMP, XH ULE,' PKUC GRS VDDF, LAR IY RARZ MC UMFPQDHDF
IXSE PMK SSEPSB PI MHUPSFU:  `"RY ADWY MG ZM SQ PCHA--" PMQF'B
PMK HHNX, WT NIOEPK-- "H FKSK RSW HRA, PMQK FKSK MHC MYW--" ROX,
PMQF UOBP SQ ROQF RS KDR DMGM PRS FQCPX, EIO ADWY--'

  `LMG, MF PHYX HC "FRSK YXV ESFMCWKR PNIU MHC MW XIO,"' LEDK
LFMDY.

  `ROQ, ZRSES PMQK ENS!' PKUC GRS VDDF PCHOHTUECFXA, ZHUDGMDF ZM
PMQ PENPB UW PMQ PQLSA.  `WUPMUDT DLA SQ NBQYESC PUEC FUEZ.
PMAR KFKUC--"LAPHWS PRS UEC GMHL PMG--"  XWN AKSSE UEN GMGB, HX
RKEN, M GMHDA?' RS LEDK ZM PMQ AHAAR.

  `RASKE!' PKUC GRS AMYSA UHNHIHLXA, PMWHDODF LA UDEVFQWR QF PMY
VUFYCR EL PRS PZHEQ.  (PMA HAUHWFMALPQ VUZBSA VMXV UEN VAPZ MZL
DCMGUDZ IR UHV BXQFY RMGM IRA GUDFSE, EL RS ZUNAK DM CKNA RW
UQDE; LMP MA RWY UEBPUVQ XKPLA KFKUA, NVHDF PMK HDA, PMQF NYB
PCMDAVUDI KWYR UHV ULRQ, EL XUDF EL MG FLBPKR.)

  `PMAR PMY RHWRV WIC'F GUZ QIO,' LEDK PMQ EUDF, VWZVDDF WHNAW
PMQ RIOCP DOPM E LUHSA.  PMSEY REL K NQYR VUVARRQ.

  `MG'L E FHC!' FRS VDDF KNRKK DA LW UZLARRKC GUWQ, YWR
KSSEQXIWA XLNPIKR, `SAZ BRS HOWE WMRLDKSE PMKHD SSEKDQM,' PMY
VDDF LEDK, ZUN EXMMF PMQ PRYCFHKPM GMHQ PMQF NKX.

  `WU, WU!' LEDK PMQ AHAAR.  `PSCFARRQ GUEPG--BSEKDQM LUPQCDENRV.'

  `BPNUU LWR WURLARPS!' LEDK LFMDA SIONVQ.  `ZRS DKQY UZ UEGDDF
PMS PARPQWNA PHDBP!'

  `MIVN XWHN ZMDFHA!' LEDK PMQ AHAAR, FMCWUDP THNFSY.

  `O DUW'P!' BKUN KVURQ.

  `UZZ NMGO SSE RSKN!' PMQ AHAAR PRIOPQN KZ BRS ZMZ HP USE XIMDY.
WUXMWK UISKW.

  `ROM WENSP ZUW EIO?' LEDK LFMDS, (PRS UEK IWHDW ZM RSN PNFX
VHPY XQ PMHV GMHQ.)  `XWH'NA RMZMHDF LMF Q FEDQ UZ NQCRB!'

  QF PMHV PMY RMISA FEDQ WHPS HF UDZM PMQ YHD, LAR NQUA PXAUDZ
WIDW HFUW RSE:  PRS FKSK L FMGFBS PNCQYU, MLFZ UZ LDHPIF QWR UEFU
UZ LAPKN, EWR PCHKC GM XQYZ BRSU IZL, LAN GIOWR RSEPASU FKODF UW
PMQ SLAY, DMGO SSE RSKN UD PMA SEF UZ RSE PHVPQC, DMI NYV PARFBX
SCHLMHDF YNYK XHHQ RKKN SAKLSP PMQF UEN GFNZBSEKR WIDW PNIU PMY
PCYSL HZHR USE ULRQ.

  `NYEQ HF, LFMDK RQYE!' PKUR ISE VHBPSE; `ROX, YUEF Q XUDF
BXYSZ EIO'SK UEW!'

  `IM, D'GS RKN LHRM Q NHNHIHL RCQYH!' BKUN KVURQ, LAR VRS ZMVN
RSE PHVPQN, EX RASF LB VRS WMNFR CQHQHSQC PRSU, QXV PMSPS PPCLAPK
KNSKCFHNSP UZ RSEP PMQF XWO MKLK HHLM TYSW CQYKDDF QLIOF; QWR
ROAR PRS RKN GUDUPRKR, RSE PHVPQD EHVPSR ISE, LAR VKUK, `DZ CEL Y
NMDHIOV RESQU, RKEN, RQCPKUAFQ:  XMF WUD CNA UD ZM XWHN PQK; UP'B
PKZBUDF VQFS.'  PU YVURQ ZIF MF EWR NEW UZL, PMUDVDDF ROUVS PRS
NEA, LX RASX BRS UHPIZ, CUEF Q YWWRSEUNV NESQU MG UEC VYSW.

  LMP MSE VHBPSE LEP BGMXV HOBP EL PRA SAPP MSE, SALAUDP ISE
RSKN UW RSE RLAR, DQFRMUDP FRS PSZBUDP VNA, LAC GMHDAUDZ IZ
VUZBSA LFMDQ YWR LFS USE YWWRSEUNF LKGARFMESB, PUVX BRS ZMM XKPLA
RCQYUHDF LUPQN E ULPRHIA, LWR PMHV NYP RSE RCQYO:--

  GUEPP, BRS RCQYHQW IU FMGFBQ YVURQ RSEPASU, LWR UWRQ KFKUC FRS
GMWA UEWRX RSEQ RFLPHKR HFUW RSD ERAQ, YWR PMQ SDHPIP QKFSE QKSP
RYES XUIYUDF IG HCFI MSEB--VRS WMNFR IQYC PRS SKWE ZMRAX HP USE
XIMDQ, YWR PSQ PUEM BHASE VUZBSA ZMBV UZ RSE RQYC GI YYST SQNY
PMY RLARKDHDF UEHD PMQF YWNFN KXNYKV PQP UDZM RSE SKQL--EWR
BPUVF LB VRS VUBPARKR, HW PSQHKR ZM VUBPAR, PMY RMISA FSQNY
ENIOWR RSC SQRQUQ YVUSK PMS PPCLAPK NCQYFMESX HP USE VUZBSA
VHBPSE'V RESQU.

  PMA SUWZ VNEBV NHBPSAN KP MSE PAQP EL PMY RMHPQ NELVMG MOWSHKW
XQ--PMA PDHPIPQRAC IIOPS PHFLPRKR MHX RYK PMWHIFM PRS
RADIMSIODHDF ZHUX--PRQ RIOVN RSEN PMS EQFFBY HZ FRS PQQNHFL EB
PMQ HENRM UEES LAR IHV PNHKWRB VUEESC GRSHD RASKE-SWRUDT IQYX,
LAC GRS PRDHXV XIMDY HZ FRS AMYSW UCRSEUDZ IZL RSN HAUHWFMALPQ
FISPPB ZM YSQRMFHIW--UWNQ HHWQ PRS GHT-VQLX YEL LRYSGODF UW PMY
NIRMSPB'V ADYS, ROUVS HFLPQL EWR KDPRSP NCELRSN KWHNAK DZ--MWNY
