slate-pencil, and the choking of the suppressed guinea-pigs,
filled the air, mixed up with the distant sobs of the miserable
Mock Turtle.

  So she sat on, with closed eyes, and half believed herself in
Wonderland, though she knew she had but to open them again, and
all would change to dull reality--the grass would be only
rustling in the wind, and the pool rippling to the waving of the
reeds--the rattling teacups would change to tinkling sheep-
bells, and the Queen's shrill cries to the voice of the shepherd
boy--and the sneeze of the baby, the shriek of the Gryphon, and
all thy other queer noises, would change (she knew) to the
confused clamour of the busy farm-yard--while the lowing of the
cattle in the distance would take the place of the Mock Turtle's
heavy sobs.

  Lastly, she pictured to herself how this same little sister of
hers would, in the after-time, be herself a grown woman; and how
she would keep, through all her riper years, the simple and
loving heart of her childhood:  and how she would gather about
her other little children, and make THEIR eyes bright and eager
with many a strange tale, perhaps even with the dream of
Wonderland of long ago:  and how she would feel with all their
simple sorrows, and find a pleasure in all their simple joys,
remembering her own child-life, and the happy summer days.

                             THE END
	AS YOU LIKE IT


	DRAMATIS PERSONAE


DUKE SENIOR	living in banishment.

DUKE FREDERICK	his brother, an usurper of his dominions.


AMIENS	|
	|  lords attending on the banished duke.
JAQUES	|


LE BEAU	a courtier attending upon Frederick.

CHARLES	wrestler to Frederick.


OLIVER		|
		|
JAQUES (JAQUES DE BOYS:)  	|  sons of Sir Rowland de Boys.
		|
ORLANDO		|


ADAM	|
	|  servants to Oliver.
DENNIS	|


TOUCHSTONE	a clown.

SIR OLIVER MARTEXT	a vicar.


CORIN	|
	|  shepherds.
SILVIUS	|


WILLIAM	a country fellow in love with Audrey.

	A person representing HYMEN. (HYMEN:)

ROSALIND	daughter to the banished duke.

CELIA	daughter to Frederick.

PHEBE	a shepherdess.

AUDREY	a country wench.

	Lords, pages, and attendants, &c.
	(Forester:)
	(A Lord:)
	(First Lord:)
	(Second Lord:)
	(First Page:)
	(Second Page:)


SCENE	Oliver's house; Duke Frederick's court; and the
	Forest of Arden.




	AS YOU LIKE IT


ACT I



SCENE I	Orchard of Oliver's house.


	[Enter ORLANDO and ADAM]

ORLANDO	As I remember, Adam, it was upon this fashion
	bequeathed me by will but poor a thousand crowns,
	and, as thou sayest, charged my brother, on his
	blessing, to breed me well: and there begins my
	sadness. My brother Jaques he keeps at school, and
	report speaks goldenly of his profit: for my part,
	he keeps me rustically at home, or, to speak more
	properly, stays me here at home unkept; for call you
	that keeping for a gentleman of my birth, that
	differs not from the stalling of an ox? His horses
	are bred better; for, besides that they are fair
	with their feeding, they are taught their manage,
	and to that end riders dearly hired: but I, his
	brother, gain nothing under him but growth; for the
	which his animals on his dunghills are as much
	bound to him as I. Besides this nothing that he so
	plentifully gives me, the something that nature gave
	me his countenance seems to take from me: he lets
	me feed with his hinds, bars me the place of a
	brother, and, as much as in him lies, mines my
	gentility with my education. This is it, Adam, that
	grieves me; and the spirit of my father, which I
	think is within me, begins to mutiny against this
	servitude: I will no longer endure it, though yet I
	know no wise remedy how to avoid it.

ADAM	Yonder comes my master, your brother.

ORLANDO	Go apart, Adam, and thou shalt hear how he will
	shake me up.

	[Enter OLIVER]

OLIVER	Now, sir! what make you here?

ORLANDO	Nothing: I am not taught to make any thing.

OLIVER	What mar you then, sir?

ORLANDO	Marry, sir, I am helping you to mar that which God
	made, a poor unworthy brother of yours, with idleness.

OLIVER	Marry, sir, be better employed, and be naught awhile.

ORLANDO	Shall I keep your hogs and eat husks with them?
	What prodigal portion have I spent, that I should
	come to such penury?

OLIVER	Know you where your are, sir?

ORLANDO	O, sir, very well; here in your orchard.

OLIVER	Know you before whom, sir?

ORLANDO	Ay, better than him I am before knows me. I know
	you are my eldest brother; and, in the gentle
	condition of blood, you should so know me. The
	courtesy of nations allows you my better, in that
	you are the first-born; but the same tradition
	takes not away my blood, were there twenty brothers
	betwixt us: I have as much of my father in me as
	you; albeit, I confess, your coming before me is
	nearer to his reverence.

OLIVER	What, boy!

ORLANDO	Come, come, elder brother, you are too young in this.

OLIVER	Wilt thou lay hands on me, villain?

ORLANDO	I am no villain; I am the youngest son of Sir
	Rowland de Boys; he was my father, and he is thrice
	a villain that says such a father begot villains.
	Wert thou not my brother, I would not take this hand
	from thy throat till this other had pulled out thy
	tongue for saying so: thou hast railed on thyself.

ADAM	Sweet masters, be patient: for your father's
	remembrance, be at accord.

OLIVER	Let me go, I say.

ORLANDO	I will not, till I please: you shall hear me. My
	father charged you in his will to give me good
	education: you have trained me like a peasant,
	obscuring and hiding from me all gentleman-like
	qualities. The spirit of my father grows strong in
	me, and I will no longer endure it: therefore allow
	me such exercises as may become a gentleman, or
	give me the poor allottery my father left me by
	testament; with that I will go buy my fortunes.

OLIVER	And what wilt thou do? beg, when that is spent?
	Well, sir, get you in: I will not long be troubled
	with you; you shall have some part of your will: I
	pray you, leave me.

ORLANDO	I will no further offend you than becomes me for my good.

OLIVER	Get you with him, you old dog.

ADAM	Is 'old dog' my reward? Most true, I have lost my
	teeth in your service. God be with my old master!
	he would not have spoke such a word.

	[Exeunt ORLANDO and ADAM]

OLIVER	Is it even so? begin you to grow upon me? I will
	physic your rankness, and yet give no thousand
	crowns neither. Holla, Dennis!

	[Enter DENNIS]

DENNIS	Calls your worship?

OLIVER	Was not Charles, the duke's wrestler, here to speak with me?

DENNIS	So please you, he is here at the door and importunes
	access to you.

OLIVER	Call him in.

	[Exit DENNIS]

	'Twill be a good way; and to-morrow the wrestling is.

	[Enter CHARLES]

CHARLES	Good morrow to your worship.

OLIVER	Good Monsieur Charles, what's the new news at the
	new court?

CHARLES	There's no news at the court, sir, but the old news:
	that is, the old duke is banished by his younger
	brother the new duke; and three or four loving lords
	have put themselves into voluntary exile with him,
	whose lands and revenues enrich the new duke;
	therefore he gives them good leave to wander.

OLIVER	Can you tell if Rosalind, the duke's daughter, be
	banished with her father?

CHARLES	O, no; for the duke's daughter, her cousin, so loves
	her, being ever from their cradles bred toPKPMSE,
	PMQF PRY RIOVN UESK ZUXVWYKR RSE SVOSA, HW UESK KDKR
	ZM BPYK SQMHWR RSE. PRS HV QF PMQ RIOCP, LAR WW
	SABV SQXUSKW IP USE NANBQ PUER UHV WYW RLNPIPQN; EWR
	RASKC PYW FLKDSP XUSKN KB PRSK WW.

UXDGSE	ROSEY RUVB FRS UXW VIAA SDGY?

RMENSAB	PRSE XYK RS HV LFESKNK OC FRS ZUESBP UZ ENRKA, LWR
	Q ULAQ OSEWE HQW DMGO SHU; LAC GRSES PMQK VUSK VUEQ
	PMY HVN WHVMR UWZW IP ADFFLWR: PMQK LEQ OLAX ZIODF
	PKCFSAHQA UXUDQ ZM MHH QSKWE NKK, YWR UFYSZ BRS GMHQ
	NQESSABVXA, EL PMQK KDK DC FRS ZIVNAR YWNSW.

UXDGSE	ROQF, XWO NESBPSA ZM-UIWSWY SQZUES PMA RYR NIEQ?

RMENSAB	HENWE, WI H, VHD; LAK D NQHQ ZM QNAMKUCF XWO NMGU E
	UQZBSE. U KI TDGAR, VHE, PQRESFBQ ZI OWRSEBPLAW
	PMQF XWHN XWNAPKC SWHPMSE HWFLWRI MQFU E KDPHHXMGHIW
	ZM WMHQ UD KDVPOHPSN KFKUDBP HQ ZM PCK Y ULXV.
	ZM-UIWSWY, VHD, H DCSPFBA PHW OQ NCKRMG; LAR IQ PUEZ
	SPNQHSB HY RMGMIMF XHHQ SCIYAR VUCT PRLFF LQBOHP MHU
	RYXV. XWHN SCMZRSD HB LMF XWNAF KWR PQWRSE; LAW,
	ZUW EION SIXK, H YWNFC VA SUYPM ZM ZUUV MHU, QV H
	UOBP, ZUC HX WDW MIWUHN, UG RS WMHQ UD: PMSEAPHWY,
	IOZ MT UA XIXQ PW XIO, M DQUS RMGRSC PU YQBNLUDZ QIO
	DOPMLF, PMQF KHPMSE XWO UDIMP BPYK MHU TWHU MHV
	UDPQWRHQCF HW SCWZE VMNI RHVPDQNY RASF LP RS PUEXV
	NHD UCFI, HC FUEG MG ML E PMUDZ IP UHV WYR LQYCNO
	LAN KBFIZQPRSN EFKUDBP OQ DOXV.

UXDGSE	RMENSAV, H PMLAQ GRSA PHW PMA XIXQ PI UY, RMHRM
	PMIO PRLFF ZUDK D DOXV UIBP VDWRXA ESAMMGK. H UEW
	OQPSFU WUGMRQ UZ OQ SCMZRSE'P FHEHHXS RSEKHA LWR
	UESK XQ NARKERLAC IQYRL FLXMHNKR ZM KDBVNLRK MHU TWHO
	MG, LMP MK HP ESPUXMFK. H'XV PQXV PMYS, RMENSAB:
	MG HV PMS PFMLVHWRABP XWNAP ZASXUY WZ LNEWNA, PNFX
	UZ QUVMGMUW, LA ARGDIOP SUOFLZMW HP ASKWE UQR'L
	ZIIW FECPL, E PSNCQP LAK GUVFLWUHL WMCFDHSKN EFKUDBP
	HQ MHL RQFHNLF SCMZRSC: PRSESZUES HLQ POE
	KDBRESGMUW; H MKN EL VUAP PMIO KDRVM TESYE MHL RQRY
	EL MHL PUDPKN. EWR PMIO RYCP SQBP XUIY ZM'F; ZHW UG
	PMIO WIBP MHU QWA BXDIMP KDVPNERQ HW UG RS WI WUZ
	UHPIGMXA PDQNS RHUPSFU UW PMYS, RS DOXV HEQNGMPS
	KFKURLZ BRSQ SE ZIHXHR, ACFNET FRSQ SE XIUY
	PCQYRMSEIOV RKSMDQ YWR RASKN SQYSK PMYS GMXV RS
	UEPM FQ'AR PMA XUGQ SE XIUK HWRHDQRM CQYRL HW MZRSW;
	ZUD, H ELLHES PMYS, LAN KBUHXZ CMGM PQYEP H VHSYE
	MG, PMSEK HL RMZ UWS PW XIODF LAR VI XUVFLWUHL PMHV
	NKA XDGUDI. D PHQYQ VMF SCMZRSNSX WP UHU; LMZ
	PRIOVN U KALZMUHPY MHC MM ZRSQ YP RK HV, H UOBP
	LXHLU EWR RYSH LAC GMIO UHLF BWZE GLFQ YWR YWWRSE.

RMENSAV	H QU RSENGMXA FVKN M DQUS RMGRSC PW XIO. UG RS WMHQ
	ZM-UIWSWY, U'VV FDGS RHU MHP HYKHQCF: UG KSSE RS ZI
	LFUWQ YFKUD, U'VF AKSSE DCSPFBA PHW HEOGQ HHWQ: YWR
	XH ZIK VYSZ EIOC DHWPRHG!

UXDGSE	ULESRYXV, ZIIW RMENSAB.

	[YSMG RMENSAB]

	WUY ZUVV U BPHD PMHV FKHQBPSE: H MHZK H PRLFX BYS
	LA ARW IP UHU; ZUC HE XIOX, AQP D VWUD WMZ ROX,
	UEPQL RMZMHDF UIES PMLA RS. KQP MS'P PKCFSA, RASKW
	BRMIUXKR LAW KQP SAENRAN, GNFX UU AMXSA RKGDRQ, UZ
	LFX BHWPB ARRMLAGMDFXA SQXUSKN, KWR UDRKKR XH UORM
	UD PMS RQYCP UZ PMY RHWVN, LAR KPHQRUKXVX WT UX WDW
	HSHZSA, ROM XSPG QWUR OHU, PMQF U KU QBFIZQPRSW
	UHPHDHPSC: VMF MG PRLFF AMZ SQ XH XUDF; PMHV
	DCSPFBSE PRLFB NSAEN LFF: AMZMHDF ESUQUDB LMF PMQF
	D VUDNVQ PRS XMQ ZMHPMSE; ROMDU RWY U'VV FU YXMMF.

	[YSMG]




	EL XWN FDVK HZ


QNG M



BRARK HU	VYNC LAPHWQ PRS NIEQ'P HLFQNY.


	[ARPQC NASUK LAR CHXLFUDW]

RQVUK	U HEYK PMYS, WHLEVUWR, XRYSM CQ WWO, SQ HQWSX.

WHLEVUWR	RKEN RQVUK, U PRWY UIES UHCPM PUED U QU UHBPESBV UZ;
	LAR DIOVN XWO AQP O DSEQ HSEDHSE? NASABV XWM NIOVN
	PQQNM UQ PU ZHWPKF Q LQDUPRKR ULPMSE, XWO UHLF CMZ
	SAENC US RWY ZM ESHQCTSE LAK QBZNEHWKDALWE FSQYLHES.

RQVUE	USEKHD U PSQ PMIN FIXSPM CA RMZ DOPM PMA PNFX NKHPIZ
	PMQF U VIXQ PRSK. HT UA OWNSA, PMQ XLAHVRSN GQFRSW,
	UEC VLAHVRSC GOE NANBQ, PRS NIEQ OQ ULPMSE, XH PMIO
	UERVM TYSR LGMXV DOPM HQ, M DIOVN UESK FQIFMP OQ
	XUSK ZM FQEQ PMA ZQFRSN PHW UHRA: XH YWNFRVZ BMIO,
	UG PMQ PNHPM UZ PMA XIXQ PI UY RSES PH WDIMPYHHLXA
	PQHTSEKR EL UHRA HV ZM PMYS.

WHLEVUWR	RYXV, O DUVF UHWPKZ BRS WMWRMGHIW UT UK QBPQFQ, PW
	ESHIMDK HW AIOEP.

RQVUY	KIO ADWY OQ ULPMSE UEPM WU RMUVC VMF U, DHW WURA HV
	VUEQ ZM UESK: LAC, GNHXA, ROAR RS KDSP, PMIO PRLFZ
	SQ MHP RKHN, PHW ROQF RS UEPM FQEQA LNYA ZWHC MOE
	ULPMSE HSNPHWRQ, O DUVS NARRKC PRSQ YFKUD UD
	LUPAQMHIC; LQ OUDS RUWIOD, H DOXV; LAR DRSD U SCQYY
	PMQF UYPM, SAM CQ PHNC UUWBPSE: PMSEAPHWQ, HX
	XRYSP CHXQ, HK WQYW SHXQ, SQ HSEWE.

WHLEVUWR	PNIU RSWNAPHWPM O DUVB, NWO, LAW VKSHVS PZHCPB. XQP
	HQ PSY; RUEZ BMHDA XWO IZ LLFVUDF UD XUSK?

RQVUQ	UENWE, H GDHPMYS, WI, ZM UQEQ PHHWZ CMGUEX: LMF
	XUSK WU UQD UD FWZR KENRABP; WUC WU ZHNPMSE UD PHHWZ
	RAMGRSC PUEW DMGR PLUQPX WU L FHES LXHLM PMIO UYKBP
	UD MIWUHN WMHQ UZU LFKUD.

WHLEVUWR	ROQF PRLFX LY HHN PHHWZ, BRSW?

RQVUL	FQP HL VHF QWR UIDQ PMK PWZR IIOPSDOPA ZUCPNAA PWHO
	RSC DRSAS, PMQF RSD PUGPB UQE OARRQZUCPM SQ SSPZMRYR KAMLFXA.

WHLEVUWR	O DIOVN RY WMNFW VH XU, ZHW RSC SARAPMGL EES
	UHPIGMXA UHPHFLRQN, KWR PMQ SIOCFUGNF LXUDR DIULA
	WIPM UIBP UHBPYEK HR USE IDZFB PW YIUAR.

RQVUQ	'FHV PCHA; ZUC PMIPS PMQF PRQ HYESP ULHD PRS PNQCNY
	UQEQP RUWSPF, QWR PMHXQ PUEP BRS UQEQP RUWSPP BRS
	UQEQB SSEK OXV-ULXIHNKRXA.

WHLEVUWR	ALA, WWY PMIO ZISPF ZWHU THWFMRA'X HZLMDQ PW
	ALFMES'L: PHWFMRA ESDIRL UD IDZFX HZ FRS YWNSW,
	WUG MC FRS VURAQUARPB UZ ALFMES.

	[ARPQC PIORMBPUWY]

RQVUL	AW? YRSW LQFHNS RQFM UKNQ Y ULHD NCQYFMES, UQE XRS
	WUM TA ZHWFMRA ULXV UDZM PMA PHDQ? PMIIFU RQFHNY
	UEPM IDSKA NX RMG ZM UFIOF QF ZHWFMRA, UEPM WUZ
	ZUCPNAS PARG MC FMHL PWZB FM WMF UZZ FRS ENFIHQCF?

WHLEVUWR	UDRKKR, PMSEK HL PHWFMRA ZMI MENN GHW ALFMES, ROAR
	ZUCPNAQ HYESP ALFMES'L RQFHNLF PMQ RMFPQW-HZL UZ
	ALFMES'X RMG.

RQVUE	FSEKNSKCFHNQ PMHV HL RMZ ZUCPNAS'P YWDE RAMGRSC, SMF
	ALFMES'X; RMI HSCNKHSKPM IOC WQFHNLF DOPB ZMI WNFX
	ZM ESELUW UZ LHRM ZIWVSPPSL EWR UEPM PSCF PMHV
	ALFMNEF UHW IOC DRSPBZMRA; ZUN EXNYKB PRS NIFASPX HZ
	PMA PWZV UB PRS ROQPBPUWY HZ FRS DOPB. MID WWY,
	DOZ! CMHPMSE NYWRSE XWO?

ZMMNRPZMRA	UHBPESBV, XWO UHLM QIUQ YNYQ ZW XION PQFRSW.

RQVUY	NSEQ KIO UQRK PMQ HSPPSDFSE?

ZMMNRPZMRA	WU, XQ UHRA MIWUHN, LMG M NYB LDK ZM WMHQ ZUW EIO.

