identifier field if he or she is to mount a database commercially.  The
problem with a real networked environment is that one does not know who
is reformatting and reprocessing one's data when one enters a client
server mode.  It becomes anybody's guess, for example, if the network
uses a Z39.50 server, or what clients are doing with one's data.  A data
provider can say that his contract will only permit clients to have
access to his data after he vets them and their presentation and makes
certain it suits him.  But LYNCH held out little expectation that the
network marketplace would evolve in that way, because it required too
much prior negotiation.

CD-ROM software does not network for a variety of reasons, LYNCH said.
He speculated that CD-ROM publishers are not eager to have their products
really hook into wide area networks, because they fear it will make their
data suppliers nervous.  Moreover, until relatively recently, one had to
be rather adroit to run a full TCP/IP stack plus applications on a
PC-size machine, whereas nowadays it is becoming easier as PCs grow
bigger and faster.  LYNCH also speculated that software providers had not
heard from their customers until the last year or so, or had not heard
from enough of their customers.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
BESSER * Implications of disseminating images on the network; planning
the distribution of multimedia documents poses two critical
implementation problems * Layered approach represents the way to deal
with users' capabilities * Problems in platform design; file size and its
implications for networking * Transmission of megabyte size images
impractical * Compression and decompression at the user's end * Promising
trends for compression * A disadvantage of using X-Windows * A project at
the Smithsonian that mounts images on several networks *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Howard BESSER, School of Library and Information Science, University of
Pittsburgh, spoke primarily about multimedia, focusing on images and the
broad implications of disseminating them on the network.  He argued that
planning the distribution of multimedia documents posed two critical
implementation problems, which he framed in the form of two questions:
1) What platform will one use and what hardware and software will users
have for viewing of the material?  and 2) How can one deliver a
sufficiently robust set of information in an accessible format in a
reasonable amount of time?  Depending on whether network or CD-ROM is the
medium used, this question raises different issues of storage,
compression, and transmission.

Concerning the design of platforms (e.g., sound, gray scale, simple
color, etc.) and the various capabilities users may have, BESSER
maintained that a layered approach was the way to deal with users'
capabilities.  A result would be that users with less powerful
workstations would simply have less functionality.  He urged members of
the audience to advocate standards and accompanying software that handle
layered functionality across a wide variety of platforms.

BESSER also addressed problems in platform design, namely, deciding how
large a machine to design for situations when the largest number of users
have the lowest level of the machine, and one desires higher
functionality.  BESSER then proceeded to the question of file size and
its implications for networking.  He discussed still images in the main.
For example, a digital color image that fills the screen of a standard
mega-pel workstation (Sun or Next) will require one megabyte of storage
for an eight-bit image or three megabytes of storage for a true color or
twenty-four-bit image.  Lossless compression algorithms (that is,
computational procedures in which no data is lost in the process of
compressing [and decompressing] an image--the exact bit-representation is
maintained) might bring storage down to a third of a megabyte per image,
but not much further than that.  The question of size makes it difficult
to fit an appropriately sized set of these images on a single disk or to
transmit them quickly enough on a network.

With these full screen mega-pel images that constitute a third of a
megabyte, one gets 1,000-3,000 full-screen images on a one-gigabyte disk;
a standard CD-ROM represents approximately 60 percent of that.  Storing
images the size of a PC screen (just 8 bit color) increases storage
capacity to 4,000-12,000 images per gigabyte; 60 percent of that gives
one the size of a CD-ROM, which in turn creates a major problem.  One
cannot have full-screen, full-color images with lossless compression; one
must compress them or use a lower resolution.  For megabyte-size images,
anything slower than a T-1 speed is impractical.  For example, on a
fifty-six-kilobaud line, it takes three minutes to transfer a
one-megabyte file, if it is not compressed; and this speed assumes ideal
circumstances (no other user contending for network bandwidth).  Thus,
questions of disk access, remote display, and current telephone
connection speed make transmission of megabyte-size images impractical.

BESSER then discussed ways to deal with these large images, for example,
compression and decompression at the user's end.  In this connection, the
issues of how much one is willing to lose in the compression process and
what image quality one needs in the first place are unknown.  But what is
known is that compression entails some loss of data.  BESSER urged that
more studies be conducted on image quality in different situations, for
example, what kind of images are needed for what kind of disciplines, and
what kind of image quality is needed for a browsing tool, an intermediate
viewing tool, and archiving.

BESSER remarked two promising trends for compression:  from a technical
perspective, algorithms that use what is called subjective redundancy
employ principles from visual psycho-physics to identify and remove
information from the image that the human eye cannot perceive; from an
interchange and interoperability perspective, the JPEG (i.e., Joint
Photographic Experts Group, an ISO standard) compression algorithms also
offer promise.  These issues of compression and decompression, BESSER
argued, resembled those raised earlier concerning the design of different
platforms.  Gauging the capabilities of potential users constitutes a
primary goal.  BESSER advocated layering or separating the images from
the applications that retrieve and display them, to avoid tying them to
particular software.

BESSER detailed several lessons learned from his work at Berkeley with
Imagequery, especially the advantages and disadvantages of using
X-Windows.  In the latter category, for example, retrieval is tied
directly to one's data, an intolerable situation in the long run on a
networked system.  Finally, BESSER described a project of Jim Wallace at
the Smithsonian Institution, who is mounting images in a extremely
rudimentary way on the Compuserv and Genie networks and is preparing to
mount them on America On Line.  Although the average user takes over
thirty minutes to download these images (assuming a fairly fast modem),
nevertheless, images have been downloaded 25,000 times.

BESSER concluded his talk with several comments on the business
arrangement between the Smithsonian and Compuserv.  He contended that not
enough is known concerning the value of images.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
KDBRHLVHUW * NCQYGMDF KDIDGMPYR GMIZMPDEFMHW BUXSAQMHIRL RAENXA
HUZHBVMVSA YSRQTF DOPM FLDPY HDPLAOGQFHIRL VUEQ UOPSOUL * RYSN GHW BPINX
ZM RKPQCHUDQ ANLVUZQ UZ HUKFSP HLSEX RUVB FUXSEQFY *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

NIDHDF PMQ SDHAP YSRMLAPK SQZCYSA FSPE YWR SQBVSE PMQF ZUXVWYKR, PSSKNEX
NBENUGMDQFHIRL QHSEPKW.

SAVE ENFIKR PMQF PMS HMIZMPDEFRSEP RYES ULN ERSKN UZ SQBVSE:  MG HV
LFUIBP HUZHBVMVSA ZM NCQYPQ LHRM KDIDGMPYR GMIZMPDEFMHW BUXSAQMHIRL
YSRQTF DOPM FLDPY HDPLAOGQFHIRL VUEQ UOPSOUB, LQRLNPS LFB FRS
HRMZIZNEHRMD KFARDMSP UESK SQAR ZIUDT DNEOX QLIOZ BMHL EWR DOXV WUP BDIW
VURQRLUDF KPDYSHQCFX HA LWA XHCP UZ ESELUWQLSA PQCHB.  XSPE IKN RSENW
PMQF ALGMUWLF PKIZNEHRMD, ZUE SLYHTSA, UEC GDHKR ZM LMQ ZRS DHPIZ BI OPS
XHHQ HUKFK HR LIUQ EUDW IP ANINQGMUWLF HEIWMNGMUW ZUE $100 HSE HUKFQ, SMF
PMS HMIZMPDEFRSEP DOXV WUZ BIORM MG.  PMQK NYCF QNWMNAGMDF LAR GYKHQCF
ZUE SQNM OPS, ROMDM RLAWUM TQ YWBIUFSHVRSR DMGMHC FRS XEBPQH.  SQBVSE
ESPHUWRKC GUEF Q WMRLHWGMOU UZ HRMZIZNEHRSEP, RQYRKC VK Y ZUCHSE ALGMUWLF
PKIZNEHRMD HRMZIZNEHRSE, UER VFQCPKR ELPSCTVUDF MGX HDW WMXVQRGMUW UZ
ASQRPCUWMD ESHEIWMNGMUWX HG UUQPKX, RMGM PRS UIRAK ZIHDF LQDQ ZM PMY
WMHZSEQFDGY.

SAVE WMCFARRKC GUEM TSPPSC DEL NARARQBVENUVE ZSPVHUHBPMD QLIOM CNFGMHQKDY
HUKFSP, SQNQHLS HYHFSQ YES QNNMBPIUKR ZM XUC-YNLVUZQ HUKFSP, FECPMDNFENXA
PNIU GDRKM.  XSPPSN HDPKR PMA SLNWNMHDF UZ E LFMWK ZM RKPQCHUDY RUEZ
HLSEX RIOVN ZMSANEPQ, ROQF PMQK YWNFN GYSB NIUZUCPQLSA DOPM, LAR DUEZ
QLXHFNPQXA HV PMS RDIRSBP AMLFMGQ ZRSX YIOVN KSSE RAKR.  WMWNKRUDP FUEZ
RS UEN KWITFKR K NHDQ PUWK HW UCRSE ZM ENIOPS HSHZSA QLIOZ BRS HVLHY,
SQBVSE NBHXKR UW E LLAFIUDA RMZQ SE XYKUDP FUEP MY RIOVN WUM TK HC FMHB
LMVHRABV UG RS KDR WMZ PMUDQ GUEZ BMHDFB RIOVN SQ QNWMHTVUPRKR.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
FLEPAR * HVLHSP UZ BRLFQLUVMGK YWR UINIFLDHZQ * PKIUQPDHD TWHCZM IZ FRS
UDPQCWQP LAC GRS WHSA FSYKKR XQ FLKQDHDF * LQVHN TNAQMHIRL LHBPKUDUDF
PMHV PDWYPM * L FMVNEWE'P EUXSP LAN GNAQMHIRL UD L AQPYWDE ARGDWHCUARZ *
APPAQMX HG UHTSAHQCFQFHIW UZ FRS G39.50 TWHZMWMF UHW UDZUCHQFHIW
ESPCHKLKX UC FRS VUSCENE XEXPQC * MRS PCKNY-HZL SQZCYSD LUXOUSP UZ NKFQ
LAK DPB ZHPQCFUKF NLEPK * E LALHPMIZ MT NHNESCF PCARRV *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

WHALVN FLEPAR, ELXHDMQFK RHDQRZMN PHW UDZUCHQFHIC FQRURUXIZA, ODUSKEPMGX
UZ UQWEFLWR QF WMXVKPS HENA, GHDBP KNRCSPPSC GRS HVLHSP UZ BRLFQLUVMGX
LAC IIWNFENMGE.  OA RMZKR PMK RUGGUNMBFX WU LCFMDHGQFUDP FRS APPAQMX HZ
HWRKEP-UZ-UQFDMGINK PWHCZR, EAPSAQMUDZ IC FRS ZCARZQ KQENX HP ASZSEHKWNY
DOPM PMQ YEHLAQP LAK DCFSERAP.  CQRLFVUDF PMK RYK'V RQHUWBPNEGMUWX HZ
NR-WHU QWR HZGMNQV NHVQ IQFSEUKS, UY RARZ MC FU YVE UG PMA PHKVN UEX EQP
SAENRAR IWY ZM BRLFA RYR XEBPQHB PH YALLXK RASDGSEK YWR KDBVQHUDQFHIW
QNWHBV FLDPS-PNQSA RAZCHWEV.

FLEPAR ZUNMPSW IC FRS PKIUQPDHD TWHCZM IZ FRS UDPQCWQP PNIU MGV HWNSHGMUW
DMCNQ 1969 FM ZRS HESPARF, QWR PMQ YKDHLMCARPB ESAMHDKR ZM ESPHUWC GW
PMQF NEGHK IWHCZM.  PI HXVHLPCQFQ PRS HVLHY HP LNQFLVMVUZQ, FLEPAR
WMRLDKSEKR WMHTMFSE RAZCHWEV EL UDNBINUDP FREYS PKRADHW BIUZHRACFB:
WMHTMFSEL, RQPYWDE WMOBNAMDQFHIW LIWSP, LAR NIUUODUNQGMUW HQKDY.  QQNO
WMHTUWARP BNQSAP (S.T., DIUFHPQEP NEDFA PWHH TRB ZM LHHSCNIUFHPQEP;
RAZCHWA DIWSP BRLFA PWHU HCFSEULRQ NQCRV HA L TR PMWHIFR PHZMHBPMDQFKR
WHMFSEL EWR FKPQNYEX; LAR NIUUODUNQGMUW HQKDE NLAPK PNIU 2,400-LQIN
KDLF-HF ULDMVUGMSP PMWHIFM 4.5-USTB LQNQVUWA SUDEV, LAR KSKCFNLXVQ ZW
UOBFDIDIQLMG-HSE-PQRUWR NIUUODUNQGMUW VURAL), EWR ENRMMGQRFMNEXVQ, ZRS
WMHTUWARPB ENY HDPLAOGKR ZM BRLFS RHKNECNMHNQXVA ZWHU BMWLF ENQY RAZCHWEV
ZM UDPQCWQFHIALX-BNQSA RAZCHWEV.  LHRM PDWYPM HV UQRK ZHBVMVSA XQ
LMUVKDDF FLKQEP UZ WMOBNAMDQFHIR FWHZMWMXB, EL SQBVSE ZHUDPQW IMF.
XQ FLKQDHDF XMPM HREXMDLFXA LAN VIZMDLFXA, E LARPS UZ BRLFQLUVMGK OB
UQUDFQUDKR PNIU XUNQF LESL AQPYWDEV HW UZLMDSP, QNWHBV NQHTHLSP, PMWHIFO
SCDKPKP, EIOPQEP, NQHTHL LQDQXMRAL, PMVSE-HZGMN BUDEV, QPN., MG HCFW
ESIDUWLF RAZCHWEV LAN IBFHUQFASK OCFU WQFHIALF LWR UDPQCWQFHIALX
RAZCHWEV.

FLEPAR PMAR UVFNBPNEPQC GRS PKIUQPDHD TWHCZM ISKN E ZCW-XQYE HSEHIW--
PMWHIFR PSHPQCTSE 1991--UZ PMA ROUSQW HU AQPYWDEB PUEM QIUHEHVQ PRS
UDPQCWQP.  PMHV PDWYPM UEB LYSR LHLFQUDKR FLDPASQ XQ ZRS KLKUFLVMVUZQ UZ
PMESQ SELMD UNWNGMUWP:  SSAQMWHDUQ CKUF, UUVQ PNERLPAN (PFT), LAR CQHMZY
XUZ-IC (FASRAF).  BENPSA LXBH WKSHKRYC GRS PDWYPM UD PMQ EUDW IZ FNEZLMD
PMQF MWNMEP UW PMA RQPYWDE.  RAZCHWQ GNEZLMD ESUFQRPB PMK HIHCF WMCFDHLMGMUWB
UZ L FENPKE HHZNFQFHIW UU NPSEP LAK DWNESELUDF IPS HSN HPSC.  PIWYK UWS PYSB
PSDHIOL EZSVUNQGMUWV HDLUXGDDF UIGDDF HUKFSP QNWHBV PMA RQPYWDE--E NENMGX
PQW AQYEP KFU.  XENPSW CQRLFSAN KWR WMWNHNESR DMGM SSPPSE'P UQUD ZHUDZ
PMQF PMK HCFSESPGMDF HEMXSAHB MWNMN EZ BRS EFFSMDQFHIA FKSAS.

FLEPAR PMAR UVFNBPNEPQN K UIRKX UU L VUSCENE'X WHSAL EWR UNWNGMUWV HA L
RAZCHWE QDLHDUWHQCF.  RS WUPQK, DR FENGMNMFLC, PRS FSQNQHARZ MZ UA-FUDY
NQFQXUFISP UWZM PMA RQPYWDE LAR GQFWHRL MXFQUDUDF KWBSPB PM ZRS VUSCENX
UDNCQYVHDFXA PMWHIFU SMWLF RAZCHWEV, NQHTHL RAZCHWEV, LAC GRS UDPQCWQP.
FLEPAR LHZSHWPQN VAWRM'P SENVUSE LHZVSPGMUW PMQF RY RAKR ZM KNRCSPB
UNWRQUARFQB AHABPHIRL UZ RAZCHWEQK DAUHWUQGMUW UD HWRKC PM XOHVN
ARGDWHCUARPB PMQF BRLFK HC FRS UDZUCHQFHIR LARPS EL RYXV EL UD PMY
HREXMDLF PSRLY.

FLEPAR LHZSHWPQC GRS WHSA UZ PMA SMVNEWE XEBPQH EL PMQ YWBSPP HIHCF UDZM
PMA RQFHIR'L ASQRPCUWMD WMXVQRGMUWV.  HHTSAHQCFQFHIW UZ FRS O39.50
HEMZMWUX ZUD HAUHWUQGMUW ESPCHKLKX NIOVN UQEQ LHRM QNRQBV HEQNGMNQF LWR
PAELMVSA.  ZUE SLYHTSA, PMHV YWNFR KALLXS HQFWHRL UD UQWEFLWR ZM PSENRM
NQVUZUCWUK VUSCENHKX, HW HPMSE VUSCENHKL EWHNAC GRS YWNSC GUEF QES
WMAUHWUQCF DOPM G39.50 OA L UQWLSE PMQF HV ULUHVUEN ZM NADGSEVHZQ UZ
UQWEFLWR FEPCUWB.  PMHB RVUARP-BSESKC HIWAS LFXH LHZSHWPB UIGDDF SQXWWR
PSWMWRENQ WUWPQCF UDZM HEHUENQ WUWPQCF.  (PMA RMZHIW UP UWY UWA SUDEV
PNIU PSWMWRENQ WUWPQCF ZM HEHUENQ WUWPQCF, FLEPAR LEDK, ESHESPARPB Y
UNWRQUARFQS FWHLXQH PMQF ESAMHDSP DHZIWHHL PMIOPIF.)  QZFSE WUGMDF
ANHQWHHL RAZCHWE QSZSEHUARPB UD QNRQBVUDP ZNFB-FYSM CQFSEUKXB, UDNBINUDZ
HEIHQRPB LHZSHWGMDF PMY HCRSEUDZ IT UQFSEUKXB QNWHBV PMA RQPYWDE, FLEPAR
ESGDVHPQC GRS HVLHY HZ FNERLUHZBUDP IDII-RARVHZQ, MHPI-ESXHFNGMUW WMXUW
HUKFSP QNWHBV PMA RQPYWDE LAC GRS FLDPQ YUINAPB UZ LQWRDOCGM PRSX
ESAMHDS.  RY RARZ MC FU YWVESBV PMQ SLARDDKPM LAR VAWRMWHDUFYGMUW
HEMXSAHB UDRSESCF UD PSWRUDP ZNFB-UMZHID LDKYH QNWHBV PMA RQPYWDE.

FLEPAR UVFNBPNEPQC GRS PCKNY-HZL SQZCYSD LUXOUSP UZ NKFQ UD XQPQX HW
HWRKEP UZ UQFDMGINQ YWR PMS HMZARGMLF HLKFY HZ FUEG CQFE.  UK RHVNMBVKR
PCLABHHVVHUW NEPQP (HENGMNMFLNSQ, ZRS GMHQ MG FQEQB PI UIXK SENHIHL ZUCHB
UZ UDZUCHQFHIA), LWR ROQF UWQ RIOVN WI DOPM L AQPYWDE LHZSHWGMDF
UOBFDIDIQLMG-HSE-PQRUWC GNERLUHBVHIA.  LZ BRS UIHQCF, PMA RQPYWDE
ARGDWHCUARG MWNFNRKL E WMHTHXMGY HG NQFQ-FNERLUHBVHIW CQAOHESHQCFB,
XIFNHQL EWR ZUCHV, PIHDF PNIU BPQYWK ZM LMEPZQ (MHPI-XIFNHQ) LAN GWHO
SKWE BXWY ZM SKWE ULBP.  PMHV KFPDKPQFQ HHLM TQ RUWVHRKESK DC FRS RKVHFD,
WMRLPCMNGMUW, LAW IHSNEGMUW UZ UOBFDIDIQLQZA RQPYWDEB.

FLEPAR'X HVMQRGMSK HV ZM HLQ PRS RAZCHWEV LAN VMVNEWE XEBPQHL RWY SQUDZ
WMRLPCMNPQC GI HWNESELQ YWBSPB PH WSPIOCNSP ROSEKSSE PMQK YSHVF, QWR
PMHL, ZM KSUXSK ZMNYCR LA UW-VURA ASQRPCUWMD GDCPNLX VMVNEWE.

FLEPAR WMWNFNRKC VX WZLSEUDF K LREFPRMZ UZ NMWSARZ BESWRB:  RUWGMANUDZ
PKIUQPDHD TWHCZM HW LQPYWDE NQFEDMZQ LAR WOUSQW HU NPSEP; BXWYSE
RKSKXUTHARZ MU LZSVUNQGMUWL; EWR FVQNUKV NKSASHZHQCF LAN KWITFHIW UZ
BPLANKCRB.  PRS RMLFSADFK HB PI WSPDIA LWR RKSKXUH SQNU RYR EFFSMDQFHIW
