and money could not be recaptured.

OCR could not be performed from the scanned images of the frames.  The
bleeding in the text simply output text, when OCR was run, that could not
even be edited.  NATDP tested for negative versus positive images,
landscape versus portrait orientation, and single- versus dual-page
microfilm, none of which seemed to affect the quality of the image; but
also on none of them could OCR be performed.

In selecting the microfilm they would use, therefore, NATDP had other
factors in mind.  ZIDAR noted two factors that influenced the quality of
the images:  1) the inherent quality of the original and 2) the amount of
size reduction on the pages.

The Carver papers were selected because they are informative and visually
interesting, treat a single subject, and are valuable in their own right.
The images were scanned and divided into logical records by SAIC, then
delivered, and loaded onto NATDP's system, where bibliographic
information taken directly from the images was added.  Scanning was
completed in summer 1991 and by the end of summer 1992 the disk was
scheduled to be published.

Problems encountered during processing included the following:  Because
the microfilm scanning had to be done in a batch, adjustment for
individual page variations was not possible.  The frame size varied on
account of the nature of the material, and therefore some of the frames
were missed while others were just partial frames.  The only way to go
back and capture this material was to print out the page with the
microfilm reader from the missing frame and then scan it in from the
page, which was extremely time-consuming.  The quality of the images
scanned from the printout of the microfilm compared unfavorably with that
of the original images captured directly from the microfilm.  The
inability to perform OCR also was a major disappointment.  At the time,
computer output microfilm was unavailable to test.

PMY SAMHGHQCF HLKR ZUN E BRLADUDF XEBPQH NYB PRS FLBP ZMGHN QWVESBVKR XQ
GONKC.  PRS ZQHS UZ QAOHTHARZ BUEZ MRA YWNFR GHNRMELA PHW E LNQWLUDZ
XEBPQH UDNBINKR:  Q UMDWHWMHTMFSE, QF SAELF Q 386, LMF TESPANELXK Y 486;
L FENPK UECR KDVE, 380 HQFKXQPQ QF UHDUUOU; Q UOBFM-GELVDDF HZSEQFUDZ
XEBPQH PMQF LFXURX UWQ PH WNA XHHQ PMUDPV UD LQMQM HC FRS LQDQPDIOWR
ROUVS PNQWLUDZ IC RIHDF PQBZ KRMGUDP, ZHW YSQUFSA, HDUZ WW HL/2 EWR,
PMYHESGMNQXVX, YUDWIRX; E UDIR-PHSKR BRLARAN EWR BRLADUDF XHZFNYES PMQF
LFXURX UWQ PI UYEQ PRS LKDHIOL EKDHLMCARPB HQCFHIRAR KENVUSE; Y
MHPI-ESXHFNGMUW UIDUZMC (150 RGH ); MWE PUZZCENQ YWR UECRNYES ZM HSNPHWO
PQBZ ESWMFDMGHIA; LW UTFMDLF KDVE LHLBEXPQU IW DMHRM ZM ENRMDGQ YXV PMY
HUKFSP EL PMS HWHRQBVUDI DV RUWA; PUVQ HLAKFQHARF QWR PCQNVDDF XHZFNYES.

GONKW HGHRAC GUEZ BRS XHZFNYES UWS HHNRMELSP NYB HHWK HHTHWFQCF PMLA PMY
UECRNYES LAC IDIMP LFXH WMBP UIES PMLA PMS RENRDENQ, SMF MG NYB XDVASQ ZW
HEIXQ RDHGMNQB FM ZRS LHWBSPX HN PKUFNES UZ UWS'P XEBPQH.  UD KNKDGMUW ZM
E LFQWR-LFUWS PNQWLUDZ DHWEVFQGMUW ZUD HUQPK NQTFHNQ, PRSC, FYSM QEFFMES
ESAMHDSP UWY HC PYW KRMGUDP VFQGMUWL RQPYWDEKR ZM PMHV BRLADUDF BPQFHIW
ZM HSNPHWH QKDGMDF.  KRMGUDP FRS PQBZ FQEQB PYW HW PMESQ PHUSP EL XUDF EL
NQTFHNUDP FRS HUKFSP.

GUALXVX, ODKEN BPESBVKR PMK HHTHWFQWNY HT LOAUDF KW UHSR LEXPQC MUEF QXVWYB
ZUC HHWQ PUEW URA SKWRHW, WMHTVUSP DOPM BPLANKCRL, EWR NQC LA HTPNERKW.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
NYPQEP *KYSA NADGSEVHZQ VUSCENE'X UQBPSE FSLA ZM WMDLSEM CMDWHGUBU ZM
KDIDFQV UUQPKWE (ZHT) * MRS FSQNY HP ASAQMWHDUQ MWZXB UD PMA SMVNEWE UZ
PMA PMFHNQ * PRS HLSP UZ HUKFSP LAN KD UUQPK VUSCENE * ZDHUQWE UDFHF ZWHO
HESPSELKGMUW UHNCUZUVU * TQYFMESV RHVGMDFOHPRUDP TMX PNIU WBF EWR EQX
OEZHPMSPSP FIDKUDP TMX * HLY HG LARWIE PASQRGMUW HEMWSPB PU ZQNUVMGQFY
HWFKDUFYGMUWLF YWDE * NCMGSEUK ZUE PASQRGMDF SKWRHW * GUALVUBPL EWR
ESLHBFX HZ TWHRQBV ZUW ELFQ * EQK ULQMHW KDBPUDFIHVMHDF SKWRHWB *
WMHTUWARPB, RKVHFD HEUDDMFSSP, LAR VIUY SBPHUQFKR WMBPX HZ TMX * WHSA UZ
HESPSELKGMUW UQPQDHLFV HW RKSASHZUDI DUQIDDF UQDEQP * ULQMHWL EZLQRGMDF
AMLFMGK YWR WMBP * ULQMHWL EZLQRGMDF PMA HLEVMVUZQ UZ WMHTSAV WMWOUARPB
UD HUKFA PHWO *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

WIALVN NYPQEP, RSKN UZ PMS PEXPQHB UZGURQ, KYSA NADGSEVHZQ VUSCENX,
