convert microfilm to digital imagery, Project Open Book (POB).  Stating
that POB was in an advanced stage of planning, WATERS detailed, in
particular, the process of selecting a vendor partner and several key
issues under discussion as Yale prepares to move into the project itself.
He commented first on the vision that serves as the context of POB and
then described its purpose and scope.

WATERS sees the library of the future not necessarily as an electronic
library but as a place that generates, preserves, and improves for its
clients ready access to both intellectual and physical recorded
knowledge.  Electronic tools must find a place in the library in the
context of this vision.  Several roles for electronic tools include
serving as:  indirect sources of electronic knowledge or as "finding"
aids (the on-line catalogues, the article-level indices, registers for
documents and archives); direct sources of recorded knowledge; full-text
images; and various kinds of compound sources of recorded knowledge (the
so-called compound documents of Hypertext, mixed text and image,
mixed-text image format, and multimedia).

POB is looking particularly at images and an image library, the uses to
which images will be put (e.g., storage, printing, browsing, and then use
as input for other processes), OCR as a subsequent process to image
capture, or creating an image library, and also possibly generating
microfilm.

While input will come from a variety of sources, POB is considering
especially input from preservation microfilm.  A possible outcome is that
the film and paper which provide the input for the image library
eventually may go off into remote storage, and that the image library may
be the primary access tool.

The purpose and scope of POB focus on imaging.  Though related to CXP,
POB has two features which distinguish it:  1) scale--conversion of
10,000 volumes into digital image form; and 2) source--conversion from
microfilm.  Given these features, several key working hypotheses guide
POB, including:  1) Since POB is using microfilm, it is not concerned with
the image library as a preservation medium.  2) Digital imagery can improve
access to recorded knowledge through printing and network distribution at
a modest incremental cost of microfilm.  3) Capturing and storing documents
in a digital image form is necessary to further improvements in access.
(POB distinguishes between the imaging, digitizing process and OCR,
which at this stage it does not plan to perform.)

Currently in its first or organizational phase, POB found that it could
use a vendor selection process to facilitate a good deal of the
organizational work (e.g., creating a project team and advisory board,
confirming the validity of the plan, establishing the cost of the project
and a budget, selecting the materials to convert, and then raising the
necessary funds).

POB developed numerous selection criteria, including:  a firm committed
to image-document management, the ability to serve as systems integrator
in a large-scale project over several years, interest in developing the
requisite software as a standard rather than a custom product, and a
willingness to invest substantial resources in the project itself.

Two vendors, DEC and Xerox, were selected as finalists in October 1991,
and with the support of the Commission on Preservation and Access, each
was commissioned to generate a detailed requirements analysis for the
project and then to submit a formal proposal for the completion of the
project, which included a budget and costs. The terms were that POB would
pay the loser.  The results for Yale of involving a vendor included:
broad involvement of Yale staff across the board at a relatively low
cost, which may have long-term significance in carrying out the project
(twenty-five to thirty university people are engaged in POB); better
understanding of the factors that affect corporate response to markets
for imaging products; a competitive proposal; and a more sophisticated
view of the imaging markets.

The most important factor that distinguished the vendors under
consideration was their identification with the customer.  The size and
internal complexity of the company also was an important factor.  POB was
looking at large companies that had substantial resources.  In the end,
the process generated for Yale two competitive proposals, with Xerox's
the clear winner.  WATERS then described the components of the proposal,
the design principles, and some of the costs estimated for the process.

Components are essentially four:  a conversion subsystem, a
network-accessible storage subsystem for 10,000 books (and POB expects
200 to 600 dpi storage), browsing stations distributed on the campus
network, and network access to the image printers.

Among the design principles, POB wanted conversion at the highest
possible resolution.  Assuming TIFF files, TIFF files with Group 4
compression, TCP/IP, and ethernet network on campus, POB wanted a
client-server approach with image documents distributed to the
workstations and made accessible through native workstation interfaces
such as Windows.  POB also insisted on a phased approach to
implementation:  1) a stand-alone, single-user, low-cost entry into the
business with a workstation focused on conversion and allowing POB to
explore user access; 2) movement into a higher-volume conversion with
network-accessible storage and multiple access stations; and 3) a
high-volume conversion, full-capacity storage, and multiple browsing
stations distributed throughout the campus.

The costs proposed for start-up assumed the existence of the Yale network
and its two DocuTech image printers.  Other start-up costs are estimated
at $1 million over the three phases.  At the end of the project, the annual
operating costs estimated primarily for the software and hardware proposed
come to about $60,000, but these exclude costs for labor needed in the
conversion process, network and printer usage, and facilities management.

Finally, the selection process produced for Yale a more sophisticated
view of the imaging markets:  the management of complex documents in
image form is not a preservation problem, not a library problem, but a
general problem in a broad, general industry.  Preservation materials are
useful for developing that market because of the qualities of the
material.  For example, much of it is out of copyright.  The resolution
of key issues such as the quality of scanning and image browsing also
will affect development of that market.

The technology is readily available but changing rapidly.  In this
context of rapid change, several factors affect quality and cost, to
which POB intends to pay particular attention, for example, the various
levels of resolution that can be achieved.  POB believes it can bring
resolution up to 600 dpi, but an interpolation process from 400 to 600 is
more likely.  The variation quality in microfilm will prove to be a
highly important factor.  POB may reexamine the standards used to film in
the first place by looking at this process as a follow-on to microfilming.

Other important factors include:  the techniques available to the
operator for handling material, the ways of integrating quality control
into the digitizing work flow, and a work flow that includes indexing and
storage.  POB's requirement was to be able to deal with quality control
at the point of scanning.  Thus, thanks to Xerox, ZMX LAGMDMFEPQP RKLUDZ
Q UQRUEDUBH ROMDO RUVF LXVWY MG WUZ MAFQ ZH XNQD UC LQFRM ZUCH, LMZ BW
ESGDYR PMQ HQFSEUKF LV HF PHYB PREIOPI PMS PNQWLSE LAR NUWPCUX AMLFMGX
PNIU PMY HMFPSZ.

PMS PFQWRENRV ZUC HQYLHDHDF AMLFMGK YWR WMBPV RSHARK IESQFXA UW PMA HPSB
UZ PMQ HQFSEUKV, UWNFNKDDF LHLBQAHACF MWE, PZMNEPK, HEUDGMDF, LAW
SCWYVHDF.  LMP QPHQRUKXVK YG MBVHA ZUE HMX HV PMA PQNUVMGA ZHW SCWYVHDF.
PMHV ULDMVUZQ, NYPQEP LEDK, HV HSEREFB PRS RYYESPF QPHQRZ MG UUQIDDF
PQRMWUXUZK LAC GRS UIBP UD RAKR UZ RKSKXUTHARZ.

K LENHKZQ UZ ULQMHWL EZLQRZ BRS HLQLUVMGX WT NIUFSYS WINMHQCFV HD UUQPK
ZUCH, QUUWP FRSC:  1) MRS QLUVMGX WZ FRS XEBPQH ZM UEWRSA PMA PNFS NLAPK
UZ WINMHQCF ZQHSL, RMZ HOBP UIWUPDEFRP LMP BSEUKXB, UOBFH-GENZ
UIWUPDEFRP, LAC ILAHLNCHGPB; 2) PMA SMWQFHIW UZ FRS NKFQLQPS UZ ESWMCR
ZUC SMVVUIZNEHRMD UDZUCHQFHIA LXMMF PMK HUQPK WINMHQCF, ROMDR HMX NYCFB
ZM ARPQW HWNQ YWR UD PMQ HHXF MPSUNS FFLRQ, PMY HA-FUDQ RQFLFIZ; 3) Y
WINMHQCF DKARGMGUSE ZUW SAPSEARDMDF PMQ SMVVUIZNEHRMD UDZUCHQFHID UW URA
FSQNQ YWR PMK HUQPKV HA LWUPMSE; 4) PMQ PQRURMKHA ZUC HYEUDP FRS LQVHW
UDPQCWLF BPNHQMHNY HZ FRS WINMHQCF QNRQBVMVSA ZM PMS EQYRKN; EWR GUALXVX,
5) PMS HOEVHNQS FESPSCFQFHIW UC FRS NCZ MZ FMIPS WINMHQCFP.  HMX HV ESKNX
ZM WMHTSAPQ PMHV HRELA RWY.  UWA SELG CQRHVHID UDLUXSKV RQRDKUDZ DMHRM
UQPQDHLF ZM BRLA.
