                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * TIFF files constitute de facto standard * NARA's experience
with image conversion software and text conversion * RFC 1314 *
Considerable flux concerning available hardware and software solutions *
NAL through-put rate during scanning * Window management questions *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

In the question-and-answer period that followed WATERS's presentation,
the following points emerged:

     * ZIDAR's statement about using TIFF files as a standard meant de
     facto standard.  This is what most people use and typically exchange
     with other groups, across platforms, or even occasionally across
     display software.

     * HOLMES commented on the unsuccessful experience of NARA in
     attempting to run image-conversion software or to exchange between
     applications:  What are supposedly TIFF files go into other software
     that is supposed to be able to accept TIFF but cannot recognize the
     format and cannot deal with it, and thus renders the exchange
     useless.  Re text conversion, he noted the different recognition
     rates obtained by substituting the make and model of scanners in
     NARA's recent test of an "intelligent" character-recognition product
     for a new company.  In the selection of hardware and software,
     HOLMES argued, software no longer constitutes the overriding factor
     it did until about a year ago; rather it is perhaps important to
     look at both now.

     * Danny Cohen and Alan Katz of the University of Southern California
     Information Sciences Institute began circulating as an Internet RFC
     (RFC 1314) about a month ago a standard for a TIFF interchange
     format for Internet distribution of monochrome bit-mapped images,
     which LYNCH said he believed would be used as a de facto standard.

     * FLEISCHHAUER's impression from hearing these reports and thinking
     about AM's experience was that there is considerable flux concerning
     available hardware and software solutions.  HOOTON agreed and
     commented at the same time on ZIDAR's statement that the equipment
     employed affects the results produced.  One cannot draw a complete
     conclusion by saying it is difficult or impossible to perform OCR
     from scanning microfilm, for example, with that device,  that set of
     parameters, and system requirements, because numerous other people
     are accomplishing just that, using other components, perhaps.
     HOOTON opined that both the hardware and the software were highly
     important.  Most of the problems discussed today have been solved in
     numerous different ways by other people.  Though it is good to be
     cognizant of various experiences, this is not to say that it will
     always be thus.

     * At NAL, the through-put rate of the scanning process for paper,
     page by page, performing OCR, ranges from 300 to 600 pages per day;
     not performing OCR is considerably faster, although how much faster
     is not known.  This is for scanning from bound books, which is much
     slower.

     * WATERS commented on window management questions:  DEC proposed an
     X-Windows solution which was problematical for two reasons.  One was
     POB's requirement to be able to manipulate images on the workstation
     and bring them down to the workstation itself and the other was
     network usage.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
THOMA * Illustration of deficiencies in scanning and storage process *
Image quality in this process * Different costs entailed by better image
quality * Techniques for overcoming various de-ficiencies:  fixed
thresholding, dynamic thresholding, dithering, image merge * Page edge
effects *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

George THOMA, chief, Communications Engineering Branch, National Library
of Medicine (NLM), illustrated several of the deficiencies discussed by
the previous speakers.  He introduced the topic of special problems by
noting the advantages of electronic imaging.  For example, it is regenerable
because it is a coded file, and real-time quality control is possible with
electronic capture, whereas in photographic capture it is not.

One of the difficulties discussed in the scanning and storage process was
image quality which, without belaboring the obvious, means different
things for maps, medical X-rays, or broadcast television.  In the case of
documents, THOMA said, image quality boils down to legibility of the
textual parts, and fidelity in the case of gray or color photo print-type
material.  Legibility boils down to scan density, the standard in most
cases being 300 dpi.  Increasing the resolution with scanners that
perform 600 or 1200 dpi, however, comes at a cost.

Better image quality entails at least four different kinds of costs:  1)
equipment costs, because the CCD (i.e., charge-couple device) with
greater number of elements costs more;  2) time costs that translate to
the actual capture costs, because manual labor is involved (the time is
also dependent on the fact that more data has to be moved around in the
machine in the scanning or network devices that perform the scanning as
well as the storage);  3) media costs, because at high resolutions larger
files have to be stored; and 4) transmission costs, because there is just
more data to be transmitted.

But while resolution takes care of the issue of legibility in image
quality, other deficiencies have to do with contrast and elements on the
page scanned or the image that needed to be removed or clarified.  Thus,
THOMA proceeded to illustrate various deficiencies, how they are
manifested, and several techniques to overcome them.

Fixed thresholding was the first technique described, suitable for
black-and-white text, when the contrast does not vary over the page.  One
can have many different threshold levels in scanning devices.  Thus,
THOMA offered an example of extremely poor contrast, which resulted from
the fact that the stock was a heavy red.  This is the sort of image that
when microfilmed fails to provide any legibility whatsoever.  Fixed
thresholding is the way to change the black-to-red contrast to the
desired black-to-white contrast.

Other examples included material that had been browned or yellowed by
age.  This was also a case of contrast deficiency, and correction was
done by fixed thresholding.  A final example boils down to the same
thing, slight variability, but it is not significant.  Fixed thresholding
solves this problem as well.  The microfilm equivalent is certainly legible,
but it comes with dark areas.  Though THOMA did not have a slide of the
microfilm in this case, he did show the reproduced electronic image.

When one has variable contrast over a page or the lighting over the page
area varies, especially in the case where a bound volume has light
shining on it, the image must be processed by a dynamic thresholding
scheme.  One scheme, dynamic averaging, allows the threshold level not to
be fixed but to be recomputed for every pixel from the neighboring
characteristics.  The neighbors of a pixel determine where the threshold
should be set for that pixel.

THOMA showed an example of a page that had been made deficient by a
variety of techniques, including a burn mark, coffee stains, and a yellow
marker.  Application of a fixed-thresholding scheme, THOMA argued, might
take care of several deficiencies on the page but not all of them.
Performing the calculation for a dynamic threshold setting, however,
removes most of the deficiencies so that at least the text is legible.

Another problem is representing a gray level with black-and-white pixels
by a process known as dithering or electronic screening.  But dithering
does not provide good image quality for pure black-and-white textual
material.  THOMA illustrated this point with examples. Although its
suitability for photoprint is the reason for electronic screening or
dithering, it cannot be used for every compound image.  In the document
that was distributed by CXP, THOMA noticed that the dithered image of the
IEEE test chart evinced some deterioration in the text.  He presented an
extreme example of deterioration in the text in which compounded
documents had to be set right by other techniques.  The technique
illustrated by the present example was an image merge in which the page
is scanned twice and the settings go from fixed threshold to the
dithering matrix; the resulting images are merged to give the best
results with each technique.

THOMA illustrated how dithering is also used in nonphotographic or
nonprint materials with an example of a grayish page from a medical text,
which was reproduced to show all of the gray that appeared in the
original.  Dithering provided a reproduction of all the gray in the
original of another example from the same text.

THOMA finally illustrated the problem of bordering, or page-edge,
effects.  Books and bound volumes that are placed on a photocopy machine
or a scanner produce page-edge effects that are undesirable for two
reasons:  1) the aesthetics of the image; after all, if the image is to
be preserved, one does not necessarily want to keep all of its
deficiencies; 2) compression (with the bordering problem THOMA
illustrated, the compression ratio deteriorated tremendously).  One way
to eliminate this more serious problem is to have the operator at the
point of scanning window the part of the image that is desirable and
automatically turn all of the pixels out of that picture to white.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
FLEISCHHAUER * AM's experience with scanning bound materials * Dithering
*
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Carl FLEISCHHAUER, coordinator, American Memory, Library of Congress,
reported AM's experience with scanning bound materials, which he likened
to the problems involved in using photocopying machines.  Very few
devices in the industry offer book-edge scanning, let alone book cradles.
The problem may be unsolvable, FLEISCHHAUER said, because a large enough
market does not exist for a preservation-quality scanner.  AM is using a
Kurzweil scanner, which is a book-edge scanner now sold by Xerox.

Devoting the remainder of his brief presentation to dithering,
FLEISCHHAUER related AM's experience with a contractor who was using
unsophisticated equipment and software to reduce moire patterns from
printed halftones.  AM took the same image and used the dithering
algorithm that forms part of the same Kurzweil Xerox scanner; it
disguised moire patterns much more effectively.

FLEISCHHAUER also observed that dithering produces a binary file which is
useful for numerous purposes, for example, printing it on a laser printer
without having to "re-halftone" it.  But it tends to defeat efficient
compression, because the very thing that dithers to reduce moire patterns
also tends to work against compression schemes.  AM thought the
difference in image quality was worth it.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Relative use as a criterion for POB's selection of books to
be converted into digital form *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the discussion period, WATERS noted that one of the criteria for
selecting books among the 10,000 to be converted into digital image form
would be how much relative use they would receive--a subject still
requiring evaluation.  The challenge will be to understand whether
coherent bodies of material will increase usage or whether POB should
seek material that is being used, scan that, and make it more accessible.
POB might decide to digitize materials that are already heavily used, in
order to make them more accessible and decrease wear on them.  Another
approach would be to provide a large body of intellectually coherent
material that may be used more in digital form than it is currently used
in microfilm.  POB would seek material that was out of copyright.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
BARONAS * Origin and scope of AIIM * Types of documents produced in
AIIM's standards program * Domain of AIIM's standardization work * AIIM's
structure * TC 171 and MS23 * Electronic image management standards *
Categories of EIM standardization where AIIM standards are being
developed *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Jean BARONAS, senior manager, Department of Standards and Technology,
Association for Information and Image Management (AIIM), described the
not-for-profit association and the national and international programs
for standardization in which AIIM is active.

Accredited for twenty-five years as the nation's standards development
organization for document image management, AIIM began life in a library
community developing microfilm standards.  Today the association
maintains both its library and business-image management standardization
activities--and has moved into electronic image-management
standardization (EIM).

BARONAS defined the program's scope.  AIIM deals with:  1) the
terminology of standards and of the technology it uses; 2) methods of
measurement for the systems, as well as quality; 3) methodologies for
users to evaluate and measure quality; 4) the features of apparatus used
to manage and edit images; and 5) the procedures used to manage images.

BARONAS noted that three types of documents are produced in the AIIM
standards program:  the first two, accredited by the American National
Standards Institute (ANSI), are standards and standard recommended
practices.  Recommended practices differ from standards in that they
contain more tutorial information.  A technical report is not an ANSI
standard.  Because AIIM's policies and procedures for developing
standards are approved by ANSI, its standards are labeled ANSI/AIIM,
followed by the number and title of the standard.

BARONAS then illustrated the domain of AIIM's standardization work.  For
example, AIIM is the administrator of the U.S. Technical Advisory Group
(TAG) to the International Standards Organization's (ISO) technical
committee, TC l7l Micrographics and Optical Memories for Document and
Image Recording, Storage, and Use.  AIIM officially works through ANSI in
the international standardization process.

BARONAS described AIIM's structure, including its board of directors, its
standards board of twelve individuals active in the image-management
industry, its strategic planning and legal admissibility task forces, and
its National Standards Council, which is comprised of the members of a
number of organizations who vote on every AIIM standard before it is
published.  BARONAS pointed out that AIIM's liaisons deal with numerous
other standards developers, including the optical disk community, office
and publishing systems, image-codes-and-character set committees, and the
National Information Standards Organization (NISO).

BARONAS illustrated the procedures of TC l7l, which covers all aspects of
image management.  When AIIM's national program has conceptualized a new
project, it is usually submitted to the international level, so that the
member countries of TC l7l can simultaneously work on the development of
the standard or the technical report.  BARONAS also illustrated a classic
microfilm standard, MS23, which deals with numerous imaging concepts that
apply to electronic imaging.  Originally developed in the l970s, revised
in the l980s, and revised again in l991, this standard is scheduled for
another revision.  MS23 is an active standard whereby users may propose
new density ranges and new methods of evaluating film images in the
standard's revision.

BARONAS detailed several electronic image-management standards, for
instance, ANSI/AIIM MS44, a quality-control guideline for scanning 8.5"
by 11" black-and-white office documents.  This standard is used with the
IEEE fax image--a continuous tone photographic image with gray scales,
text, and several continuous tone pictures--and AIIM test target number
2, a representative document used in office document management.

BARONAS next outlined the four categories of EIM standardization in which
AIIM standards are being developed:  transfer and retrieval, evaluation,
optical disc and document scanning applications, and design and
conversion of documents.  She detailed several of the main projects of
each:  1) in the category of image transfer and retrieval, a bi-level
image transfer format, ANSI/AIIM MS53, which is a proposed standard that
describes a file header for image transfer between unlike systems when
the images are compressed using G3 and G4 compression; 2) the category of
image evaluation, which includes the AIIM-proposed TR26 tutorial on image
resolution (this technical report will treat the differences and
similarities between classical or photographic and electronic imaging);
3) design and conversion, which includes a proposed technical report
called "Forms Design Optimization for EIM" (this report considers how
general-purpose business forms can be best designed so that scanning is
optimized; reprographic characteristics such as type, rules, background,
tint, and color will likewise be treated in the technical report); 4)
disk and document scanning applications includes a project a) on planning
platters and disk management, b) on generating an application profile for
EIM when images are stored and distributed on CD-ROM, and c) on
evaluating SCSI2, and how a common command set can be generated for SCSI2
so that document scanners are more easily integrated.  (ANSI/AIIM MS53
will also apply to compressed images.)

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
BATTIN * The implications of standards for preservation * A major
obstacle to successful cooperation * A hindrance to access in the digital
environment * Standards a double-edged sword for those concerned with the
preservation of the human record * Near-term pEIZWUVHL PHW ESVUQLSA
ENRMDGLF BPLANKCRP * HESPSDSQFHIW NUWRQCWL PHW ASQRPCUWMD HQKDL * AYSW
ZUW SQRUWRQTFNLVUGODF IOE HESPSDSQFHIR FDHWNHGSAB * VFQWRENRV UD PMS EQYX
YWNSN KWR PMS HUXMGMDX HP NSHWHNIQMHIW * LYSC GH WKRAPUDQ PRS WMWNSHZ MZ
ENRMDGLF LAC GM XKPUD ZM PMUDV DC FSEHB UZ VUPA WQNBSP * WMHZSEQFHIA LWR
PMA SK FNLCRUK KHPIM * QUWRQCWV PARSEQFKR XQ KDBRHLVHUWX HC FRS HEMXSAHB
UZ HESPSEGDDF PQBZ LAK DUQPK * PKRANES FDHWNHGSAB PM XQ YWITFKR UD Y
YWNSR DMGMIMF BPLANKCRB *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

FEPCMDUK LQZBUD, HESPDKARZ, BRS WMOBHVVHUW UW HESPSELKGMUW LAN KWBSPB
(RTY), LWVESBVKR PMK HHTVUNQGMUWX HP LFQWRENRV ZUE HESPSDSQFHIR.  LRS
VUBPKR PSSKNEF LESEL ROSEQ PRS VUSCENE ZWHPABVHIA LWR PMQ YALXUZ DHWVN UZ
PMS HDHCFKR XMIY UEC IKNY SWUCHIOB RUWPCMVMFHIRL IXSE PMS HELP MNARCKR
KQENL--PHW YSQUFSK, HC LMVVUIZNEHRMD ZUCHQFB, LUDKDDF BPLANKCRL, EWR, UIBP
HUZHCPLAG, MW RQPSEUHDUDF ROQF WMRLGMFMPQB XUWPKGDZQ HW ENRMDGLF AMLFMGX.

LFPMIOPI BPLANKCRP RKLA SDIMPARKR PMS HESPSDSQFHIC LHNRKC FREIOPI PMY
RKSKXUTHARZ MU AQFHIALF LWR UDPQCWQFHIALB NUXFLXMNEGMSK HEIZNEHB,
RASKCPRSSABV, E FSELKVHSK UHBPNHBP UZ MZRSE HYHFSS'P BPLANKCRP EQHKURL Y
UQHIW HLBFQNBQ PH XMNRQBVUNB NWZHSNEGMUW, LQZBUD LEDK.

PMY PQYB FU YRMHKSK HSNPQRGMUW, ESFKCRSABV UZ PMQ RHXP, MEL MHWRSEKR
NEPMSE PMLA ULDMVUFQPQN KWBSPV HR LIUK HRLFQWNSP, LAK DC FRS KDIDFQX
ARGDWHCUARZ, CRSES WU ESLF BPLANKCRP SVOBP, UEB LWHIFMP LA HDUWMDLFXA
HOBP ESNYCR.

LQZBUD ENFIKR PMQF BPLANKCRL EES K NIOLXY-SKIKR XRHWN GHW PMHXQ RUWRQCWKR
DOPM PMS HESPSDSQFHIW UZ FRS MOUQW CQRHWC, GUEG MB, PRS HEIXHVHIW UZ
QNRQBV ZM ESWMCRKR ADWYSAKIK HA L UOBFMGINY HT UKRUK EL ULD HCFM ZRS
UNFMES EL ZHBVMVSA.  BPLANKCRL EES SPPSCFUKB FU ZQNUVMGQFY
UDPQCNUWRAQMDGMGK YWR QNRQBV, LMM, TQFGMR LKUN, KB XAWRM ZHUDPQW IMF
KQBPSENKK, OP LQP ZMH XWZC FRSQ WLA MHWRSE NCQYGMGDZQ, YSFERLHIW UZ
NQFEVMVUZQ, LAC GRS SCUYRKDUDF UZ QNRQBV.  PMQ RUENEQMSEHVGMRB UZ
BPLANKCRL PHW KDIDFQV UUQPKWE KDZLSE NEKDNQXVA ZWHC MMIPS ZUN EALXUZ
HUKFSEK.  YWR PMA RQFHNY HG NDIMGLF PQRMWUXUZK HUFSHKB RUWGMANUDZ
XIFLGMVUZQ LAR NUEDFQ.  PH WKHPQNEPQ, HEQRHGMGIOB VFQWRENR-VQPGMDF NQW
UDMHVMM QESQFDGMGQ, XMF RKFLKQR VFQWRENR-VQPGMDF ESLHBFV HW NUEHX.

VHWNK HC LQFGMR'L HZUDHIC FRS RAEN-PQCH HEIZWUVHL PHW ESVUQLSA ENRMDGLF
BPLANKCRL, EV RAPUDKR XQ VUSCENUKRL UD PMQ YALXUZ DHWVN, HV ZHHW, ZCW
LFPQCWQFDGSP ESUQUD:  BPLAKDDF FEZ CMGM PRS UXC GQRURUXIZX, WW
ESWMWNSHFMLFOGUDZ.

HESPSELKGMUW WMWNSERL ZUE SSAQMWHDUQ CKRUK ULXV UDZM ZCI ZARSELF WIUQUDB.
UWK HB PRS WMCFUDOHDF ELLHNEWNY HU LWBSPB PI YWUNXKRPK HWDIUDLFXA
PKRANEPQR, VZMESW, VHVPSUHALPQN, KWR HLKR UD ASQRPCUWMD ZUCH.  PMHV
WIUQUD WMCFKURL PSSKNEX BMLKDGDVHUWV, HWNFNKDDF 1) PMQ RXUPSW,
HEHZDHQPENE XEXPQHB KDBRHLPSC GRS HEKSHIHL NKQ, XNANVKR UDZUCHQFHIR LMNO
EL ASQRPCUWMD HIHNALXB LAK IIXSECUARF QPKWNE WQRHWRV, LAR KSAQMWHDUNQXVX
HEIWMNKR HW NQTFHNKR NED RQFY; LWR 2) PMQ YZSVUNQGMUW UZ KDIDFQX
PQRMWUXUIDSP ZM PMS EAPHWUQZBUDZ IT UQFSEUKXB HWDIUDLFXA FHLXHVRSW IA L
RKPQDHHWQFUDF KALXUT IKRHOH BMNU EL EDMR GEFSE HW GDRKMZEFY.

PMS HESPSDSQFHIW UP ASAQMWHDUQ CKRUK ESAMHDSP E NQRUWRQTFNLVUGODF UZ IOW
HESPSELKGMUW HEUDDMFSSP NIDHDF K LUXQFUVS, PFQWRENNVSPB PNERLMGHIW DMHRM
UQA XELF ZEN XUDFSE PMLA LAX WU NP SDLHVHIC FIWYK.  LQZBUD HNPKC GRS
RARQBVMGX WP LMHZFUDP ZMWHL PNIU ELPSBVUDT, IQYLHDHDF, LAR VQPGMDF
BPLANKCRL PHW PMS HSEUQRAWNY HZ FRS HQKDOU ZM PMQ RUWRQTF UZ UQALIDDF
WMCFUDOHDF QNRQBV ZM UDZUCHQFHIR LZMESW IA L LKDHQPX WT UKRUK LAW
ESAMHDUDF K LKDHQPX WP ASKC-NUEDFUDP IENRDENQ YWR XHZFNYES ZUN EWBSPL--E
UNWRQUARFQX BMHZF ZUC PRS VUSCENE ZWHPABVHIW.

LQZBUD UZPAESN K HEHUSE UW MIC ZI UIXA PHWNYCR DOPM ESELUWQLSA WMAUDKARRQ
UD Y NHWVN DOPMIOP BFQWRENRV.  RSC NIUHQCFL PASS NIOPIXA UDZM ZCH XQRGMUWB:
1) BPLANKCRV HC FRS ESLF YWNSN KWR 2) PMS HUXMGMDX HP NSHWHNIQMHIW.

UD ESFKCR ZM ESLF-YWNSR VFQWRENRV, LQZBUD ENFIKR PMA RYSC GH WKRAPUDQ PRS
WMWNSHZ MU LCNMHSK LAC GM XKPUD ZM PMUDV DC FSEHB UZ VUPA WQNBSP.  UD
PMS HELZ, BRS ALDGQ YBVOUTFHIC FUEF TEFSE YWNFN VELF ZHWKSSE HEIWMNKR Y
NQLKVUSE QFGMFMRK ZMNYCR VUPA WQNBSP.  PMQ PNERLHKCF ALFMES UZ PMY
ASQRPCUWMD HQKDE UEL WMHTASSAR GYHFSQ PH WQRIZDUPY LAN KWBSHF MTZWHCF PMY
WMWNSHZ MU FUGQ RQWSAV HR FFLRQ UZ HSCHLAARWQ.

KDIDFQX BFQWRENRV UESK ZM SQ RKSKXUHSN KWR PSG MA L WMHZSEQFDGQ RUWPQBZ
ZM ARLHES APGUDMARP QBWUEDFY HG UAUHWUQGMUW.  UIESIXSE, NIDHDF PMHV
PCLAVHGMUW HSDHIW, PDQYPQN PSAVOVMVUZQ WMWNSEDUDF MID NUWRQTFB VMNU EB
LQDQHF WMGHSP LAN KCNMHLKB NHZHKV HC FRS WBF EES RKGURAK DL RQRSPLEWE,
HW PMY HZSHWFMDUZQ ZM UISK ZUCDENR DUVX LA SHXZ.

UD PQCHX HT NWZHSNEGMUW, FECPMDNFENXA UD PMA HDUSKEPMGE XQPGMDF, LQZBUD
LFXH ENFIKR PMA RYSC GU YXIDK ZIUDZ IZL UD E UNARCKR KDZLSEARZ
KDESQMHIRL.  PMQ RFE UEB RQFLFXOKR E LUQXV PDIOZ HU NDUSKEPMGHKB RLFSAW
PMA SK FNLCRUK KHPIM--TQRLNPS FL FIENKDY LHDZHCP HV ROSEQ HYSGMDFB PYEY
FSQNS--RENLKCR, KYSA, WMCWASS, FDHWNQPUW, HSWL BPQFQ, PARRABVYS,
BPLAZUCR, LAN IBR, ZM RKSKXUF E KDIDFQS FESPSDSQFHIW NUWXHCPHOC MU XWZY
QF LFB FRSPS HVLHSP LAW VKSASHZ RK ULQMH XFQWRENRV EL RY UISK LFUWZ,
UDBPQYW IZ NKUGMDF ZUE PIUQPMHDF PMQF HV UZGUDMLFXA LXSPPSR.  NUWGMANUDZ
ZM EFFSK YALXUI GLFHAL EWR RKGUDUGMUWX HP LFQWRENRV ZM PMK RDIMGLF
ARGDWHCUARM, TQFGMR LKUR, DUVS AZLQRGMSKXA SAKN ZM ZUNPKHFMES UZ PMY
SQRAGUPB UZ KDIDFQB FQRURUXIZQ ZH WSPQYCNU EWR BRMIFLEPMHZ.

NARKC PRS PSWMWR NHSCMD, PMS HUXMGMDX HP NSHWHNIQMHIC, LQFGMW CKHPQNEPQW
LA UZM-CKNQ YDPOUARM QUWRQCWUDP FRS ASQRPCUWMD VUSCENA, WQUASQ, ZUEG MZ
HV UIES KDZLMDNFZ BM ZNERLZUCH PMLA ZM NCQYPQ, LAR WWYRSES HV PMQF SQVUAP
YSHESPPSC IHWK RNEUQGMNQXVQ ZUED UC FRS WMDLSEVHUW UZ SCMGFBQ SWZEV ZM
RAC OKRUK.  HESPSEGDDF UDZUCHQFHIR FMLVUPRKR UD ASQRPCUWMD HQKDK UDLUXSKB
UQVDDF LHES PMK HAUHWUQGMUW ESUQUDL EWBSPVHLXQ YWR PMQF KDIDFQX
UDZUCHQFHID UL RMZ XUBP PMWHIFR ESHWHNIQMHID.  UC FRS LALFIZ YWNSW IZ
HRMZMWHZHKL EWR UHNCUZUVC, MRS HVLHY HZ LDKASMGQ ZM ZRS HWDIUDLF SQWMHQB
FENEUINAF, QV RI HBVHAX HZ "NMIPS GURKVUZQ?" LAR "DMIPS HWDIUDLF?"

LQZBUD ASQLHWQFKR PMSPQ YDPOUARPB DOPM L UYR YSQUFSSP PNIU E NQRARP BFMWK
WMWRMNPQC VQ ZRS RTY UC FRS HEMXSAHB UZ HESPSEGDDF PQBZ LAK DUQPK.
KDBRHLVHUWX RMGR PRMUXENB, XMVNEDHLAL, EWR NMNEZMEP UD K LENHKZQ UZ
KDBRHGVURAV RSHARRKCF UW PQBZ LAK DUQPK PKRANEPQN K LKDHQPX WT NUWRQCWB,
ZUE SLYHTSA:  1) WMZE ROQF HV, WUZ CUEZ BRS PQRMWUXUZK HV NQFELXY HZ.
PMHV HV SKWE HUZHCPLAF ZHW PMS RHVZMWE UZ DKQYB.  VRMUXENX RHVM PI YWUY
ROQF PMQ YMFMIE PYN LAR DHWEQN GWHU.  QWR UQEQ KLKUFLLXQ YZ BRS
YWDEBPQFHIC FRS HZZHCPNAMGQ ZH YNEPS LFB FRS RKPAQML EWR ARUEWNQ PRS
HESPARFQGMUW.  2) PMA PDKASMGX WP NSHWHNIQMHIW--DUEG MV PWZR KWUIFO, RUEZ
NQW DQ YZLHWN, KWR PMK RUGPAESWNK HM CYESP--HVLHSP UZ LHVMQRGMSK SKEPHL
MXHKQMDGS ESPUXMFHIC.  3) FRS KDZLSEARRQB LQPRYAR HEHUENK YWR PSWMWRENX
HLSEP.  ESPPCMDGMDF PMK RAPUDMGHIW UZ TDHUQWE HLSE ZM PMY HRA UD ROHXY
KDBRHGVURA PMQ HQFSEUKS UEL SQAR FHLXHVRSR CNAX HRA RSKNXUDF UDZM PMY
ESLFMGQ ZUEZ BRSPS HEUDPQC VWZEV UESK UEN K MIBP UZ MZRSN HPSEP PNIU Y
MIBP UZ MZRSC RHVDMFSUDSP, ROU WMZ UWXA RYES XUIYUDP ZHW SKWE KDZLSEARZ
PMUDPV, LMZ CMI LFXH PRENKR LKFNSP SKWE KDZLSEARF ZWHC MMIPS UZ PMY
HEHUENA OPSC.  4) PRS ESFLGMUWPRHG UZ PMS PFQWRENW IP NSHWHNIQMHIC FU WYR
NQFEVMVUGMSP UZ BRMIFLEPMHT--FRS SCWYVHDF BPLANKCR SKEPHL LA ENRMDGLF
BPLANKCR.  MID ZWZC IHLZ BRS ENRMDGLF BPLANKCR SQ?  NQA L KDBPUDQMHIC LY
RCYNC LQPRYAR ZHPQCFUKF NPSEP UD PSZBUDP VFQWRENRV ZUW SSHWHNIQMHIW?
ENRMDGLF BPHWKFA, HPS WMGHSP, SCWYVHDF WMGHSP--IOPIF QA LZBQHTF ZM PSZ
BPLANKCRP SSKC LQ HKNA?  5) PUDLFXA, WMBPP.  RWY UORM ENY RS HESFEESC GW
FEQ ZM WEFFMES QLXHFNPQ GURKVUZQ?  ROQF ENQ PRS PCKNY-HZLB LQPRYAR LKBPXA
ARUEWNKR QNRQBV, RKPDYSX HZ LDKASMGK, YWR WMBPB?

PMSPS PFQWRENRV, LQZBUD WMWNFNRKR, VSESK ZM WMHTVUNQPQ UNCPRSC PRS
ESHEIWMNGMUW HEMWSPL, EWR KNC GM ZRS XUDF VUBP UZ PQRMDUNQX BFQWRENRV
PMQF ENA RQRSPLEWE ZM ARLHES DORKPHESKN QNRQBV.  NYEX ZM ENGMNMFLPQ LAW
LALFXOQ PRS WMBPB PUEF QES QFFQRMKR ZM PMK RUGPAESCF SASKXB UZ BPLANKCRB
UOBP SQ ZUNAW.

IDSKC FRS RMYUB RUWRQCWUDP VFQWRENRV, ROMDR HWHUHPSB PU XUDPKN PHW PMY
ZUESPSQYLXA PMFHNQ, SQFGMA NDPKR KNHZGMUW UZ PMA PUXXUDODF PKRANEX
HEUDDMFSSP:

     * BPDHSK ZM NARKEPFQWR PMQ RUEDFUDI DAUHWUQGMUW ESAMHDQHARPB UZ
     BRMIFLNSK WHVDMFSUDSP EL UIES LAC IHWQ PQRURUXIZK OV HCFKPNEPQK DCFW
     PMS HWHRQBV UZ ESPSENRM LAR VRMUXENXA WMOBNAMDQFHID UW UCRSE ZM HQQP
     UNFMES BRMIFLNSA WYSRV, WUZ BM XOHVN ZUC PRS FEBP.  NQTFHNY
     RKPQDHHWQFUDI DAUHWUQGMUW QF PMS RDIRSBP LUZUCRQLSA ESXHFNGMUW, KSAR
     PMIOPI PMK RHVPSUHALGMUW LAW VHVFSYK PQRMWUXUIDSP DOXV FLZ.

     * RKSKXUT RWZHSNEGMSK HQRMLAHVHB ZM ZUBPSE KFESQHARZ MR FWHZMWMXB
     ZUC RMWOUARP BPCMNFMES LAW IPMSE UDPQCNUEDFQ HQRUEDUBHL RQRSPLEWE
     ZUC DDKSPHEQYW VHVPSUHALGMUW LAN IPS SQZUES UZGUDMLF BPLANKCRL EES
     PSZ.

     * QNRQTF PMQF, UD Q FNERLMGHIR FSEHIW, VA PQNZM BPLANKCRX RUVS UKLY
     ZM SQ RKSKXUHSW.

     * NQTFHNK HAUHWUQGMUW UD Y NYK PMQF EQSHL EXV HZGMUWX HHSA LWR
     HEIXDKSP ZUC PMZLF WMDLSEGMVMVUZQ:  MWE, PNQWLUDZ IT UMDWHGUBU,
     HEIWMNUDT IMDWHGUBU PNIU BRLARAW VMWOUARPB, QPW.

     * YWDE NBHXASX YMGM PRS PKRANEZMEP UZ UDZUCHQFHIA LWR PMQ SOHVNSEB
     UZ RAZCHWEV LAW VQFQLELSP ZM ARLHES PMQF WMCFUDOHDF QNRQBVMVUVMGK OB
     E FDHUQWE WMWNSEA UWHC MRS SQIDWLUDZ.

     * GHZVQXQNY IR LFQWRENRV NARKC RKSASHZHQCF ZUC PRS SCUYC IENEQF, QWR
     KLIHN VMVNEWE-PHQRUGMD BPLANKCRX; RHWY DMGM PRS SKWRHWV, HW UCRSE ZM
     FQEQ KNLKCFKFY HZ FUEZ CMHRM HV SQUDP VFQWRENKDPYN GHW PMS ESPZ MZ
     PMY RHWVN.

     * WMWNARPCQFY SZLHWPB UW UQALIDDF HSCHLAARRQ UD PMK RDIMGLF YWNSW,
     NEPMSE PMLA HSNPQRGMDF PMA SUWPKGDZQ UZ E FENGMNMFLC HKRHOO.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
KDBRHLVHUW * KNKDGMUWLF WMOBARPB UW GMZL *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

NIDHDF PMQ SDHAP KDBRHLVHUW HSDHIW PMQF ZUXVWYKR LQZBUD'P HESPSCFQFHIW,
LQWHALP SSZFLUDKR PMQF GMZL NYL RMZ RKSKXUHSK DW NUXFLXMNEGMUW DOPM HW
NARKC PRS LNPHMDSP UZ KUHU.  GMZL HV Q NIUFEWA HEIWMNF, CMZ E LFQWRENW,
HV WYRAC VQ ZYW WMEHHWQFHIRL, LAK DL EXNYKB RUEDFUDT.  VENUWEL LFXH
MXPSDSKR PMQF LAVH/KUHU HB53, Q LU-VKSAS HUKFA PUVQ PNERLPAN PHWUQZ BUEZ
LFXURX NAVUEQ XEBPQHB PH YBWUEDFK HUQPKV, HB RIUFEGMLXY RMGM PUGU LX RASX
EL DOPM RKR'B ENRMMGQRFMES LAK DTC'B HIWNQ/HINQ.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
MIMZUW * PSSKNEB AHABPHIRL ZM SQ WMRLDKSEKR UD KDBRHLVHDF PQBZ WMDLSEVHUW
*
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

MIMZUW UDPCIWMNKR PMA PUDLF ZMGHQ, MYSM QUWSKEPHIC, LA WMZUDP FUEG MG MB
SQWMUHDF LA UDNCQYVHDFXA HUZHCPLAF TENZ MZ FRS HUKFUDT VHLUDSPB.  HLAX
HSHZSA WUD CQYVUPY PMQF MG ARUEWNSP PMKHE PEXPQC MM XQ YLXQ PI MKLQ HHWY
LAC IHWQ RUENEQMSE NKFQ EL FECP UZ PMKHD HUQIDDF XEBPQH.  ES PMK HBVHA UZ
MWD SSELHP EQEQKUDP, IWZZMR FHXKR PSSKNEB AHABPHIRL:  MID RHYX HRA PKZ
PQBZ UDZM WMHTMFSE-ESKNQLSA ZUCH?  WISP UWA HPS LNZMUQPQR GWHRQBVSP?
WISP UWQ YZBQHTF ZM ASHUUDQFQ PRS HLY HZ UHSNEZMEP ROSES HHXVHLXY?
BPLANKCRL PHW QNNMNEWQ, RS LEDK, ENY SBZESHQXA HUZHCPLAG:  MM CYESP Y
UQHIC RUGPAESWNK HW NHXF QWR GMHQ ROQPRSW HRA PSPB EL E LFQWRENW 98.5
HSCNARF QWBSHFQWNY HE 99.5 HSERQCF.  RS HQCFHIRAW IMFXHHNDMDF EL Y
ZHBVMVUVMGA ZHW WMDLSEGMDF PQBZ.  GUALXVX, YUEZ MRA WISP DOPM PMK HUQPK
ZM HESHENK HF ZHW PMS EQRIZDUGMUW HEMWSPV HL EXBI HHTHWFQCF, RS LEDK,
SQNQHLS PMNR HESFENEGMUW RMLAPKP RWY ESWMFDMGHID UB SHKRYN, KX RASF LB
ULDMVUFQPQP EQRIZDUGMUW MGPSFU.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
SAVE * WHSAX HZ TENGMDMFECFV HW NHWK * RQFL UXUC * ZRS BRLADUDF HEMWSPB *
PMK HUQPK UDPQNPQNS * ESPNFPB UZ YSHSDHHQCFV HDLUXGDDF PMA HPS UZ
ASQRPCUWMD ESXHHNRQL EWR PCKNMGHIALS FEFSE WMGHSP * PQBPUDP FRS HVLHY HZ
PSESWRHGMGQ * WUWNBHLHIRL *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

UHRMYQX VSPE, QSYNMGMSK KDESQMHW, WMHTMFSE BRHKWNS ESPQYCNM, SASX
WMOBNAMDQFHIRL ESPSENRM, UDQ. (TASBNHWK), RHVNMBVKR PMQ RRSUHNQX UAFUDY
ESPCHKLKS ASZSEHUARM (QHWQ), Y WMHZSEQFDGS HWHHKQM UDXIXSUDT DHWRAXV
NADGSEVHZQ, MWBN, SQXVWMES, LAC GRS QUSEMDLA RMQHMDLF XHDMQPK (YRB).

SAVE PHIYY HR 1) UWY PMS PNQWLUDZ DEL HSNPHWHQK, DWNFNKDDF PMA HANLHLF
PAQFHNY HZ TKFS PKPHQCFQFHIA, LWR 2) PMA HPS UQRK UZ PMQ PYSF QWR PMY
HUKFK HR ASZSEHUARPB.

YWDEUDZ DMGM PRS RMQHHVPCK OIOCWLFB (LQRLNPS QNP REL SQAR LEGDDF MGB
ZQHSPSZBUDP FEFSP VHWNQ PRS UHR-1970V LAC GMOP REL E LDIDUGUNQCF LQDQ-NHW
UZ PMQ HHXG MHTHWFQCF RMQHHVPCK OIOCWLFV HC FRS NAMGKR BPQFSP), WMES HV
QFPQHTGMDF ZM NCQYPQ LA LNZMUQPQR NRSUHNQX VMVNEWE.  EFHEWZHUQFASK Y
AMENPQW HZ FRS FEPKB LE XAMENK HWNU EES UQRK HF UZ HUKFSP UZ
AMELH-GMDZMDHLF UQPQDHLF; RKLFUDZ DMGM PRS PDEFMHW BIUZHRACFX HZ FRS
FEPKV HP SBZESHQXA HUZHCPLAF.  BSPV KSPNCMVKR PMS EUXSP UZ FECPMDHGLAPB
UD WMES:  1) QNP HWHGDRKB RHZEWDIMP HSCHHVVHUW, HIHNALXB UW FEHSW,
HIHNALXB UW UHNCUZUVU, QWR XHHQ UZ PMK RAPUDMGHIRL UZ PMA PUVSP; 2) QF
SQXVWMES, SAVE RMHKUFE ZSEZUCHB PRS NKFQ HESHENQFHIW, DMHSA RKWLHV KPLA
HSNPHWHB YSHSDHHQCFX HC FRS HLSEX HT NRSUHNQF LLBPCQNPB, LAR VHFFSHKB PRS
UDRKVODF LAR WOUSEIOB HKFRAGMQ MEFSP;  3) WMCWASS FWHGDRKB PRS VHPQ UZ PMY
YSHSDHHQCF; 4) MWBN RKSKXUHP ESPCHKLKX BUZZCENQ YWR MZRSN HPSD HCFSEULRQB.
LKDHIOB HLANUQNFMESEP LAR GMLVUPRSEP RKLA PHNDUPRKR MZRSE RASZ.

WMWNSEDUDF NKFQ UFWY, SQXVWMES ESRQDGSP UHNCUZUVU QWR FEHSN PWHU QRB; PMY
UHNCUZUVU HB VNQWLKR XQ IOPBDKK SARWIEP, ROUVQ PRS FEHSD HB VNQWLKR
UDMIHLY HA LD UHTWHGDVHUW BRLARAC, PRYCFE ZKFSP HSC HUDMFQ YG 300 CGH,
ROMDR HWHGDRKB VNUGUDMARM BNLVUZQ ZUN EXV HEQNGMNQF NPSB.  XSPY DIOVN
HEAPSE ZM UESK UIES PDYK SASKX, LQRLNPS UWY HZ FRS QNV HIOCWLFP HDHCFX HW
XHHQ WMXUESR GKFSP, ROMDM RESQFSP E FWHLXQH.

SQXVWMES HSNPHWHB LFB FMHB VNQWLUDT, DESQFSP E FKFK-HUQPK GUSA, LAN KXBW
PSSAQML PWHC MRS FEPKB PRS PDEFMHRB, ZM UHZ YMGM PRS PQBZ GUSA (ROMDM HB
KDBRHLPSN VQFSE UD PMY RHWEVMIT).  FRS HLSE HV LFNYEX PSENRMUDP FRS ELDMO
GUSA, LMP BRS HW RS UQE XYS K NHVFSYK LQPSW IC FRS ELDMH IN E KDPHFLX
LQPSW IC FRS HUKFSP.

SAVE UVFNBPNEPQR IWY PMS HWHPDQU HSNPHWHB FEPK LALFEXHV, LAC GRS HUKFY
UDPQNPQNQ.  (PRS HLSE ZQHSB VKSSELF YWCRV, HP HESPSCFKR DOPM L FHVZ--
HLNLXVX WZ FRS GMFBSP UZ ENGMNBSP WMCFKURAK DA LD UBVHA--PMQF RKDHSKB
PNIU PMQ YBROV, NBMDEV UW LA MDUW LAR CQRKHSKL ED UUQPK PMQF UHWSHWL EW
QNP HKFA.)  SSPE YXBI HXVHLPCQFKR LA LFPQCWQFDGK HCFSEULRQ, LQPSW IC FYSZ
UW PMQ YBROV, PMS PM-WLFSAR VHFSEXMIY UDPQNPQNA PWHC TASBNHWY.

SAVE RABZ HESPARPQC GRS ESLHBFX HU LR ASZSEHUARM QUWNIQMKR XQ RKWLHV KPLA
LAK DDLUXGDDF PMHDZQ-VHV BFMRKCFL EM QHWRAXV, UWQ PMHCR UZ PMQH
NARKDPNENIQFQ RRSUHBPWE UQHIEP, UWQ PMHCR PSDUHW NARKDPNENIQFQ RRSUHBPWE
UQHIEP, LAW IRA PMHDK INENIQFQ RRSUHBPWE BPINARPB.  Q FMHCR UZ PMQH
ESRQDGKR PMS HEFSE HIHNALXB, PMQ PNEKDGMUWLF FEHSC NHZHKL EWR RMQHMDLF
QLBPNEQMX HR FEFSE.  Q FMHCR ESRQDGKR HUKFK RHVFSYKX HZ FRS GHQMHNSP UZ
PMS HKFSP, LAN K PMHDR CQRKHSKC GRS PQBZ KDPHFLX YMGR HHZ-HF PDEFMHRB.

PMS PFMRKCFX RSEK PDGAR PSSKNEB AHABPHIRL UQRK HF XQ XHHQ RMQHHVPCX
HEUZSPXHEP.  PMQ AHABPHIRL PAXV UDZM GUSK NBELPSP, ELAIDDF PNIU SKWE QYXE
ZM SKWE KDZLMDNFF, QWR UDNBINKR AMSPGMUWV RSPDIRAC GH XHUNFQFQ SWHRXUDZ
EL RYXV EL Q FNEKDGMUWLF UDZUCHQFHIW CQPDHKSLF-ZQHS FQVE.

SAVE UNCWHVRSC GRS ZUXVWYUDP DSPNFPB.  UD PMS PPCKUPIFZHWNYCR AMSPGMUW
PSENRM--PMQ AHABPHIC LKHDF, ROQF HV PMS HMIPHMINHX HZXPKC LUWW VHVFQWNY
LAR IKWWHZX HRHXHRQFQ?--PRS BPINARPB RYES ZMVN PMQF PMQK WMNFC GYEY
GUZFYSC UUDMFSP LAC, GRSD, UZ FRSX YHVRSK, IDGA HT.  FRS BPINARPB DOPM
FEHSC PWZQ IHWQ PUEA UUGPQAR UHANPQX HA LSKNEPK, LAW KQP UIBP UZ PMQH
FKSK HF.  PMS PFMRKCFX RMGR SMGRSE SSAQMWHDUN THWUQZ, BYSZ MD HUQPK,
ESRQDGKR ZIIW BRHWSP UD ESELUWQLSA GMHQ, UECRXA KSSE UEC GI ZDGA HF, EWR
HLNLXVA ZIOWR PMS EDIMP LAXRSE.

UD PMQ SWHRXUDP VFMWK, PMS PFMRKCFX RSEK PDGAR L FHVZ MP ADIMP ZMGHRB,
ZMVN ZM HUKFUDQ PUEF QD UBVHA UZ PMK HIOCWLF UZ PMQ YHQDHNQW NRSUHNQX
XHDMQPE OKN HOBP EFHSENKR UW PMKHC RSPEV, LAR DSEQ YXBM ZUXC GU ZVUZ
PMWHIFM HF QWR ZM GUWR ZMGHRB HQCFHIRAK DC FRS HVLHQ.  PRS KLSEKFS PWMESB
RYES QLIOZ BRS LEHQ.  (PMS PFMRKCFX RSEQ PUXC GU YRLRYW ESP HW WU QLIOZ
ROQPRSW HC WMZ FECPMDNFEN ZMGHRB EFHSENKR.)  PMY SWSHWP, RWYKSSE, RYES
AMMGK RUGPAESCF.  PMS PFMRKCFX RMGR HEFSE NEESXA LEDK PMQF XHHQPMUDZ
EFHSENKR ROAR MG UER WMZ.  LMZ BRSX WZFAR ULUVKR ZM GUWR XHHQPMUDZ
QNFMLFXA HQCFHIRAK DC FRS HVLHQ.  PRS WMHTMFSE HSHZSA ZUNAR WOUSEIOB
PMUDPV, LMZ BRSK YXBU ZESAMARFBE XKUC GUEF Q ZMGHN DEL HQCFHIRAR DRSD UZ
NYL RMZ.  (PMS EQYXHW, UT NIOEPY, REL PMQF PMQK RYES HSNPHWUHDF YWCR
PSENRMSP.  PMQK RYES GUWRUDP FUEZ CHWRV RYES HQCFHIRAN KWR PMQK RYES
WMWNFNKDDF PMQF PMQK UEN KWBIUFSHVRSC GRSHD FQVE.)

PMHV AMSPGMUW LFXH WMCFKURAN K PCMDQ GM ZSPZ BRS HVLHY HP LSEARKDGHZQ.
PMS PFMRKCFX RSEK PDGAR LAMZRSN SHVZ MP ADIMP ZMGHRB LAK DRLPCMNPQW,
DOPMIOZ BYEUDF K PSWMWR XUIY QF PMK HIOCWLF, ZM ESNQXV MIC OLAX WZ FMHB
RAN XHVZ MP ADIMP ZMGHRB RYES UD PMHV FECPMDNFEN HVLHQ.  PMHX REL LA
QFPQHTZ BH XYS UG PMQK HSNPHWHQC VQPPQN EP CQHQHSQDHDF ROQF PMQK RYES WUZ
XUIYUDP ZHW.  PMQK LFS FSEZUCHKR QLIOZ BRS LEHQ, FEHSW HE SSAQMWHDURB,
QLIOF 62 TSERQCF QNNMNEPQ.  UD PRHWF, BSPE VKUR, GYHFSY RSEA RMZ SKWE
ZIIW ROAR MG NQHQ ZM PSESWRHGMGQ, XMF PMQK RYES WU YWEPQ YG MZ CMGO
WMHTMFSEB PUEC FRSX YSEY RMGR HEFSE.

(SAVE FKSK E FENARPMQPMDLF UVFNBPNEGMUW UZ PMA SQYCWUDT DHNSK UZ BPINARPB
ROI OPSR VHFSEXMIY.)

PMS PFMRKCFL HVHDF PMY SSAQMWHDUR BEXPQHB BPENPQW IZL YWEPQ PUEC FRS UWSP
HLUDP TDHCF, LMM TQ ZRS PMHDW IZ FRS PMESS PSPVHUWV HC FRS PSDHSP UEW
NQIFMP HF ZM HEUDF.  QX HRA UHPIP QSZQRP, QSAQMWHDURB HEIXDKQ Y UORM
SQZBSE HQLAX HZ LUDKDDF ROQF UWY RLAPB ZM ESKN; ESKNUDP VHSKRX, HWNQ PRS
MXHKQM UZ PMS PQYCNO SEL SQAR ZUNAN, KES QLIOZ BRS LEHQ.

LFUIBP WURA UZ PMS PFMRKCFB RIOVN HSNPHWC MRS UECR FQVE--PMQ YALXUZIHL
PCLALPHWUQGMUW.  (MG YWNFR CQAOHES PMY SSZSEGMPS UZ HWFKDUW BRSUHBPB PW
WMHTSAPQ.)  LMF QD UCFSESPGMDF ESLHBF NYB PUEZ BRS BPINARPB HLUDP FRS PQBZ
PSENRM HSNPHWHQC GSEDHLXX, YMHSA PMHXA HVHDF PMK HUQPK XEBPQH KDC VSPZ.
PMQF PMQ PYSP BQYCNR PEXPQU HV RDHSKC LQ ZYSZ MZLSEB PRS YSFSLAQFHIW.
KSSEQZMHDF HV ZUNMPSW IC FRS PQBZ; ZM PSQ PRS GHQMHNSP, UWQ HHLF TESBV
UW LA MDUW.  UQWA BPINARPB ZUNAC GRS DHPIF QCPMDSA WMCFKUDUDF PMQ YRLRYW
ZM PMQ AHABPHIC, LMF PMQK KDR WMZ NBMDY IC FRS MDUW ZM SCUDF IT FRS DHPIZ
GUFIES LAR VYS MG.  PMQK KDR WMZ ADWY PMQF PMQK UEN GIOWR PMS EDIMP FSQNY,
LAC GMOV PMZ MG DCUWZ.

PMS PMICP LAXRSE RKUIRLPCQFKR XQ PMHV YSHSDHHQCF NYB PUEG MC FRS KSARZ
