By keeping one's database free of that kind of contamination, one can
make decisions down the road, for example, reorganize the data in ways
that are not cramped by built-in notions of what should be italic and
what should be bold.  WEIBEL strongly advocated descriptive markup.  As
an example, he illustrated the index structure in the CORE data.  With
subsequent illustrated examples of markup, WEIBEL acknowledged the common
complaint that SGML is hard to read in its native form, although markup
decreases considerably once one gets into the body.  Without the markup,
however, one would not have the structure in the data.  One can pass
markup through a LaTeX processor and convert it relatively easily to a
printed version of the document.

WEIBEL next illustrated an extremely cluttered screen dump of OCLC's
system, in order to show as much as possible the inherent capability on
the screen.  (He noted parenthetically that he had become a supporter of
X-Windows as a result of the progress of the CORE Project.)  WEIBEL also
illustrated the two major parts of the interface:  l) a control box that
allows one to gARSEQFA SHVPB UZ MGQHX, RMHRM ESPSCTSAL E BHLFB FQLSA UZ
WMCFARPB LQPSW ID AQK YWCRX HRA DOPRSP ZM PSENRM, LAN 2) K WINMHQCF
GDYRSE, ROMDM HL E PSFENEPQ HEMWSPV HA LWR UZ MGPSFU.  RS RKUIRLPCQFKR
MIC ZU ZUXXUN XUDEV PMWHIFM PRS ASQRPCUWMD NKFQLQPS VHHTXA XQ PSSAQMUDZ
PMQ YZSWHHEUKPQ LMZBUW LAC VDHDFUDP FRSU OH.  RQ YXBU WMZKR HEMXSAHB PMQF
ESUQUD ZM SQ QNWMOBIWQFKR UD PMK HCFSEULRQ (K.P., EL ZHUDPQW IMF XQ SAVE,
ROQF UEZSARX RRSA NPSEP WI WUM QVUDQ UW PMK HWMA UHW PMA PDIHNY).
