been filtered out.  One does not know whether there were rips in the page
because they do not show up, and on a couple of the marginal marks one
loses half of the mark because the pen is very light and the scanner
failed to pick it up, and so what is clearly a checkmark in the margin of
the original becomes a little scoop in the margin of the facsimile.
Standard problems for facsimile editions, not new to electronics, but
also true of light-lens photography, and are remarked here because it is
important that we not fool ourselves that even if we produce a very nice
image of this page with good contrast, we are not replacing the
manuscript any more than microfilm has replaced the manuscript.

The TEI comes from the research community, where its first allegiance
lies, but it is not just an academic exercise.  It has relevance far
beyond those who spend all of their time studying text, because one's
model of text determines what one's software can do with a text.  Good
models lead to good software.  Bad models lead to bad software.  That has
economic consequences, and it is these economic consequences that have
led the European Community to help support the TEI, and that will lead,
SPERBERG-McQUEEN hoped, some software vendors to realize that if they
provide software with a better model of the text theK NQC UYEQ Y VDXVUDZ.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
KDBRHLVHUW * HUFSMDQFHIRL UZ KDZLSEARG CGCL EWR FQP VQPX * HNK SKEPHL VPUB *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

NIDHDF PMK RHVNMBVHIC FUEF ZUXXURYR, VKSSELF KNKDGMUWLF ZHUDPB RYES UQRK.
RAMGRSN EEF (H.K., ELXHDMQFHIW UU LHQDHNQR FMLVUPRSEL) RHW NQXB (H.K.,
WMHTMFSE-KURKN KQBOHVHGMUW LAN VIZHVGMRB LHZSHWP) MEL K NMWOUARZ-BEZY
RKGUDUGMUW ZUN EWNHKCF PDYSV KNEUQ, LFPMIOPI PMQ PKH DOXV SQ QLSA ZM
UEWRSA PMQF.  IDSKC FMHB VFQPQ UZ LUULHDL EWR ELLHUHDF PMQF PMY
PQRMDUNQV-UIOCWLF HEIWMNSEL EWR PMQ RIUHQCNUKX SARWIEP RKDMRK ZM HLQ PRS
