looking at the Cat's head with great curiosity.

  `It's a friend of mine--a Cheshire Cat,' said Alice:  `allow me
to introduce it.'

  `I don't like the look of it at all,' said the King:  `however,
it may kiss my hand if it likes.'

  `I'd rather not,' the Cat remarked.

  `Don't be impertinent,' said the King, `and don't look at me
like that!'  He got behind Alice as he spoke.

  `A cat may look at a king,' said Alice.  `I've read that in
some book, but I don't remember where.'

  `Well, it must be removed,' said the King very decidedly, and
he called the Queen, who was passing at the moment, `My dear!  I
wish you would have this cat removed!'

  The Queen had only one way of settling all difficulties, great
or small.  `Off with his head!' she said, without even looking
round.

  `I'll fetch the executioner myself,' said the King eagerly, and
he hurried off.

  Alice thought she might as well go back, and see how the game
was going on, as she heard the Queen's voice in the distance,
screaming with passion.  She had already heard her sentence three
of the players to be executed for having missed their turns, and
she did not like the look of things at all, as the game was in
such confusion that she never knew whether it was her turn or
not.  So she went in search of her hedgehog.

  The hedgehog was engaged in a fight with another hedgehog,
which seemed to Alice an excellent opportunity for croqueting one
of them with the other:  the only difficulty was, that her
flamingo was gone across to the other side of the garden, where
Alice could see it trying in a helpless sort of way to fly up
into a tree.

  By the time she had caught the flamingo and brought it back,
the fight was over, and both the hedgehogs were out of sight:
`but it doesn't matter much,' thought Alice, `as all the arches
are gone from this side of the ground.'  So she tucked it away
under her arm, that it might not escape again, and went back for
a little more conversation with her friend.

  When she got back to the Cheshire Cat, she was surprised to
find quite a large crowd collected round it:  there was a dispute
going on between the executioner, the King, and the Queen, who
were all talking at once, while all the rest were quite silent,
and looked very uncomfortable.

  The moment Alice appeared, she was appealed to by all three to
settle the question, and they repeated their arguments to her,
though, as they all spoke at once, she found it very hard indeed
to make out exactly what they said.

  The executioner's argument was, that you couldn't cut off a
head unless there was a body to cut it off from:  that he had
never had to do such a thing before, and he wasn't going to begin
at HIS time of life.

  The King's argument was, that anything that had a head could be
beheaded, and that you weren't to talk nonsense.

  The Queen's argument was, that if something wasn't done about
it in less than no time she'd have everybody executed, all round.
(It was this last remark that had made the whole party look so
grave and anxious.)

  Alice could think of nothing else to say but `It belongs to the
Duchess:  you'd better ask HER about it.'

  `She's in prison,' the Queen said to the executioner:  `fetch
her here.'  And the executioner went off like an arrow.

   The Cat's head began fading away the moment he was gone, and,
by the time he had come back with the Dutchess, it had entirely
disappeared; so the King and the executioner ran wildly up and
down looking for it, while the rest of the party went back to the game.



                           CHAPTER IX

                     The Mock Turtle's Story


  `You can't think how glad I am to see you again, you dear old
thing!' said the Duchess, as she tucked her arm affectionately
into Alice's, and they walked off together.

  Alice was very glad to find her in such a pleasant temper, and
thought to herself that perhaps it was only the pepper that had
made her so savage when they met in the kitchen.

  `When I'M a Duchess,' she said to herself, (not in a very
hopeful tone though), `I won't have any pepper in my kitchen AT
ALL.  Soup does very well without--Maybe it's always pepper that
makes people hot-tempered,' she went on, very much pleased at
having found out a new kind of rule, `and vinegar that makes them
sour--and camomile that makes them bitter--and--and barley-sugar
and such things that make children sweet-tempered.  I only wish
people knew that:  then they wouldn't be so stingy about it, you
know--'

  She had quite forgotten the Duchess by this time, and was a
little startled when she heard her voice close to her ear.
`You're thinking about something, my dear, and that makes you
forget to talk.  I can't tell you just now what the moral of that
is, but I shall remember it in a bit.'

  `Perhaps it hasn't one,' Alice ventured to remark.

  `Tut, tut, child!' said the Duchess.  `Everything's got a
moral, if only you can find it.'  And she squeezed herself up
closer to Alice's side as she spoke.

  Alice did not much like keeping so close to her:  first,
because the Duchess was VERY ugly; and secondly, because she was
exactly the right height to rest her chin upon Alice's shoulder,
and it was an uncomfortably sharp chin.  However, she did not
like to be rude, so she bore it as well as she could.

  `The game's going on rather better now,' she said, by way of
keeping up the conversation a little.

  `'Tis so,' said the Duchess:  `and the moral of that is--"Oh,
'tis love, 'tis love, that makes the world go round!"'

  `Somebody said,' Alice whispered, `that it's done by everybody
minding their own business!'

  `Ah, well!  It means much the same thing,' said the Duchess,
digging her sharp little chin into Alice's shoulder as she added,
`and the moral of THAT is--"Take care of the sense, and the
sounds will take care of themselves."'

  `How fond she is of finding morals in things!' Alice thought to
herself.

  `I dare say you're wondering why I don't put my arm round your
waist,' the Duchess said after a pause:  `the reason is, that I'm
doubtful about the temper of your flamingo.  Shall I try the
experiment?'

  `HE might bite,' Alice cautiously replied, not feeling at all
anxious to have the experiment tried.

  `Very true,' said the Duchess:  `flamingoes and mustard both
bite.  And the moral of that is--"Birds of a feather flock
together."'

  `Only mustard isn't a bird,' Alice remarked.

  `Right, as usual,' said the Duchess:  `what a clear way you
have of putting things!'

  `It's a mineral, I THINK,' said Alice.

  `Of course it is,' said the Duchess, who seemed ready to agree
to everything that Alice said; `there's a large mustard-mine near
here.  And the moral of that is--"The more there is of mine, the
less there is of yours."'

  `Oh, I know!' exclaimed Alice, who had not attended to this
last remark, `it's a vegetable.  It doesn't look like one, but it
is.'

  `I quite agree with you,' said the Duchess; `and the moral of
that is--"Be what you would seem to be"--or if you'd like it put
more simply--"Never imagine yourself not to be otherwise than
what it might appear to others that what you were or might have
been was not otherwise than what you had been would have appeared
to them to be otherwise."'

  `I think I should understand that better,' Alice said very
politely, `if I had it written down:  but I can't quite follow it
as you say it.'

  `That's nothing to what I could say if I chose,' the Duchess
replied, in a pleased tone.

  `Pray don't trouble yourself to say it any longer than that,'
said Alice.

  `Oh, don't talk about trouble!' said the Duchess.  `I make you
a present of everything I've said as yet.'

  `A cheap sort of present!' thought Alice.  `I'm glad they don't
give birthday presents like that!'  But she did not venture to
say it out loud.

  `Thinking again?' the Duchess asked, with another dig of her
sharp little chin.

  `I've a right to think,' said Alice sharply, for she was
beginning to feel a little worried.

  `Just about as much right,' said the Duchess, `as pigs have to
fly; and the m--'

  But here, to Alice's great surprise, the Duchess's voice died
away, even in the middle of her favourite word `moral,' and the
arm that was linked into hers began to tremble.  Alice looked up,
and there stood the Queen in front of them, with her arms folded,
frowning like a thunderstorm.

  `A fine day, your Majesty!' the Duchess began in a low, weak
voice.

  `Now, I give you fair warning,' shouted the Queen, stamping on
the ground as she spoke; `either you or your head must be off,
and that in about half no time!  Take your choice!'

  The Duchess took her choice, and was gone in a moment.

  `Let's go on with the game,' the Queen said to Alice; and Alice
was too much frightened to say a word, but slowly followed her
back to the croquet-ground.

  The other guests had taken advantage of the Queen's absence,
and were resting in the shade:  however, the moment they saw her,
they hurried back to the game, the Queen merely remarking that a
moment's delay would cost them their lives.

  All the time they were playing the Queen never left off
quarrelling with the other players, and shouting `Off with his
head!' or `Off with her head!'  Those whom she sentenced were
taken into custody by the soldiers, who of course had to leave
off being arches to do this, so that by the end of half an hour
or so there were no arches left, and all the players, except the
King, the Queen, and Alice, were in custody and under sentence of
execution.

  Then the Queen left off, quite out of breath, and said to
Alice, `Have you seen the Mock Turtle yet?'

  `No,' said Alice.  `I don't even know what a Mock Turtle is.'

  `It's the thing Mock Turtle Soup is made from,' said the Queen.

  `I never saw one, or heard of one,' said Alice.

  `Come on, then,' said the Queen, `and he shall tell you his
history,'

  As they walked off together, Alice heard the King say in a low
voice, to the company generally, `You are all pardoned.'  `Come,
THAT'S a good thing!' she said to herself, for she had felt quite
unhappy at the number of executions the Queen had ordered.

  They very soon came upon a Gryphon, lying fast asleep in the
sun.  (IF you don't know what a Gryphon is, look at the picture.)
`Up, lazy thing!' said the Queen, `and take this young lady to
see the Mock Turtle, and to hear his history.  I must go back and
see after some executions I have ordered'; and she walked off,
leaving Alice alone with the Gryphon.  Alice did not quite like
the look of the creature, but on the whole she thought it would
be quite as safe to stay with it as to go after that savage
Queen:  so she waited.

  The Gryphon sat up and rubbed its eyes:  then it watched the
Queen till she was out of sight:  then it chuckled.  `What fun!'
said the Gryphon, half to itself, half to Alice.

  `What IS the fun?' said Alice.

  `Why, SHE,' said the Gryphon.  `It's all her fancy, that:  they
never executes nobody, you know.  Come on!'

  `Everybody says "come on!" here,' thought Alice, as she went
slowly after it:  `I never was so ordered about in all my life,
never!'

  They had not gone far before they saw the Mock Turtle in the
distance, sitting sad and lonely on a little ledge of rock, and,
as they came nearer, Alice could hear him sighing as if his heart
would break.  She pitied him deeply.  `What is his sorrow?' she
asked the Gryphon, and the Gryphon answered, very nearly in the
same words as before, `It's all his fancy, that:  he hasn't got
no sorrow, you know.  Come on!'

  So they went up to the Mock Turtle, who looked at them with
large eyes full of tears, but said nothing.

  `This here young lady,' said the Gryphon, `she wants for to
know your history, she do.'

  `I'll tell it her,' said the Mock Turtle in a deep, hollow
tone:  `sit down, both of you, and don't speak a word till I've
finished.'

  So they sat down, and nobody spoke for some minutes.  Alice
thought to herself, `I don't see how he cLA KSAR GUDUPR, UG RS
WISPC'F SQIDC.'  LMF PRY RKUPQR GQFHKCFXA.

  `UWRQ,' LEDK PMQ HMWQ GHNFBQ YF BELZ, CMGU E RKSH VHPI, `O DEL
E NQYB FHNFBY.'

  PMSPY RHWRV RYES ZUXVWYKR XQ K LSEA XUWP VUVARRQ, SCIYAR UWXA
XQ LA MWNQVHUWLF YSNBQUQFHIW UP `UMDEDER!' PNIU PMK PWEHRUW, LAW
PMQ RUWBPLAP MQYXK XHLVUDZ IZ FRS UIDQ FMCPSA.  LFMDY REL SKWE
RAENXA PKZBUDF IF EWR LEKODF, `PMLAE KIO, VHN, PHW XWHN
UDPQESBPUDP VZMWE,' LMP BRS WMNFR WMZ RSSF PMUDVDDF PMSEQ HHLM TY
UIES ZM WMHQ, XH PRS PQF BPUVF LWR LEDK WUPMUDZ.

  `ROAR RY RYES VUZBSA,' PMQ HMWQ GHNFBY RARZ MA LF BELM, CHWY
NQBUXA, PMIOPI BPUVX BMXVMDF L FMGFBA RWY LAC GRSW, `DY RARZ BW
BRMIUX UD PMS PQY.  PMQ HELPQC DEL LA UXC GHNFBY--RA HPSC GM WLFX
MHC MHWZMHVY--'

  `ROK WDK XWM NLFS UHU ZMCPIHPS, UG RS NYLR'Z MRA?' LFMDQ YVEKR.

  `RY NQXVKR MHC MHWZMHVQ SQRLNPS RS FQIFMP HL,' LEDK PMQ HMWY
FMCPSA LAPDUVE:  `WQYXVX ZIO ENK SSEK WNFX!'

  `XWO IIFMP ZM SQ ELUEHQW IZ AIOEPASZ LHW ELVDDF LHRM E LHUFSY
AMSPGMUW,' KNRKC GRS PDEZMIA; LWR PMAR PMQK XMPM LEP BUVARF QWR
XUIYKR QF ZHHW LFMDY, RMI PABF ESKNQ ZH XUDV DCFM ZRS QYCPU.  EZ
FLBP PMK PWEHRUW LEDK ZM PMQ HMWQ GHNFBK, `RDHSK UW, UXN GASXUY!
WIC'F SQ LFV NYK QLIOG MF!' QWR RS RYCF UW UD PMSPY RHWRV:

  `KQX, RY RARZ BH XRMWZV UC FRS PSQ, FMIIFO EIO UQAW'M TASHKSK
MG--'

  `U DKSSE LEDK D KDKC'F!' UDPQWSHFPQN KVURQ.

  `XWI NDK,' LEDK PMQ HMWQ GHNFBY.

  `MIVN XWHN ZMDFHA!' KNRKC GRS PDEZMIC, LAPHWQ YVURQ WMNFR VHSYE
KFKUC.  FRS UIDQ FMCPSA RYCF UW.

  `RY UEC GRS SQBP UZ KRMNQFHIRL--UD ULQM, RY RYCF ZM BRMIUX
KSSEK WYK--'

  `D'GQ SYSC FU Y NKE-XRMWZB, FWZ,' LEDK LFMDQ; `KIO RAKRC'F SQ
XH HEION KL EXV PMQF.'

  `DOPM YSPCEL?' ELEQC GRS UIDQ FMCPSA L FMGFBQ YWLHIHLXA.

  `KQB,' VKUN KVURQ, `RY SAENRAN GESWNU EWR UOVHW.'

  `LAR DELMHDF?' LEDK PMQ HMWQ GHNFBY.

  `RQCPKUAFA WMZ!' LEDK LFMDK HWRDIALCFXA.

  `EU! PMAR XWHNX RELC'F E NQYXVK ZWZR VRMWZX,' BKUC GRS UIDQ
FMCPSA UD Q FUWY HZ PESQF ESVUAP.  `WUN YZ MHNB PRSE OKN QF PMY
ARW IZ FRS VMXV, "PNARRM, UOVHN, QWR NYPRUDP--KBZNE."'

  `XWM NIOVNC'F UESK NYCFKR MG UORM,' LEDK LFMDA; `SDGUDF KZ BRS
XMZBIU UZ PMS PQY.'

  `M DIOVNC'F LUZUCR ZM SAEND UP.' BKUC GRS UIDQ FMCPSA DOPM Y
VHPI.  `H IAFQ ZWZQ GRS ESFIFLC NIOEPY.'

  `ROQF NYB PUEG?' MCAOHESN KVURQ.

  `ESASUDF KWR DCMGMHDF, UZ WMHNPS, ZM SQIDW DMGM,' PRS UIDQ
FMCPSA ESFSHKN; `KWR PMAR PMK RUGPAESCF SCLARMSP UZ ENMGMUQPMD--
QUVMGMUW, KDBPNEQMHIA, NFVUGMDQFHIA, LWR RKDHVHUW.'

  `U DKSSE RSENW IU "NFVUGMDQFHIA,"' LVURQ SKCFHNKR ZM LEX.  `YUEZ
HV MG?'

  PMK PWEHRUW VUZFKR HF XMPM MGP HYNV HR LHNHEHVY.  `RUEF!  CKSSE
RSENW IU NFVUGKODF!' MG YSNBKUHQW.  `KIO ADWY ROQF ZM SQLNGMZA
HV, H VHFZHPS?'

  `KQB,' VKUN KVURQ WIMLFZNFXA:  `MG HQLAB--PI--UYEQ--YWAPMUDZ--
HEQPGMSE.'

  `RYXV, PMAR,' PMK PWEHRUW RYCF UW, `UG XWI NUW'G QWUY ZUEZ BW
IFVUZA HV, XWN LES E LHUFSQPUW.'

  LFMDK RDK WUF ZYSS AWNIONEPKC GU YVE LAQ OHWQ AHABPHIRL QLIOZ
MG, XH PRQ PHNRAC GM ZRS UIDQ FMCPSA, LAR VKUR `DUEP QXBS RKN XWO
ZM SAENW?'

  `RYXV, PMSEY REL OQBPSEQ,' ZRS UIDQ FMCPSA ESFSHKR, NIOCFUDZ
UZZ FRS LHVMQRPB UW MHL PFLZSSEB, `--HEXPQWE, LADMARF QWR UIRKCW,
DOPM PSYUPDEFOE:  PMAR RCYNVUDF--PMK RNENXUDT-IELPQC DEL LA UXW
WMDFSE-YSB, FUEF MPSC GM WIUY HWNQ Y RYQE:  RS FQIFMP HL
RCYNVUDF, BPESMQMHDF, LAN GKUCFUDI DW NIHXB.'

  `ROQF NYB PUEF BDVS?' PKUN KVURQ.

  `RYXV, M DLA'P BMID OZ QIO OQPSFU,' PMQ HMWQ GHNFBS PKUK:  `D'O
ZMH XGMZL.  LAC GRS PDEZMIW LKSSE SAENCF MG.'

  `UERW'Z BHUS,' PKUC GRS PDEZMID:  `U RYCF ZM PMQ RFLBVMDB
UQBPSE, PMIOPI.  RS NYL EW UVN NCQL, RS NYB.'

  `U DKSSE RYCF ZM MHC,' MRS UIDQ FMCPSA LEDK DOPM E LDIO:  `SY
FQIFMP FLIFMHDF LAK IDHAP, PMQK HLKR ZM LEX.'

  `XH RS KDR, VI MK RDK,' LEDK PMK PWEHRUW, VHPIUDI DR UHV FMCW;
LAC VMZM RESQFHNSP MHC GRSHD ULRQV HC FRSHD FERX.

  `LAR IWY UQWA MIHNL E NKK WDK XWI NU XSPXHRL?' LEDK LFMDK, HA L
MOWSQ ZM WUEDFQ PRS LHVMQRZ.

  `PQR UIOEP PMA PHDBP NKE,' XKUC GRS UIDQ FMCPSA: `DURA PMY
RABZ, LAR VW ZW.'

  `ROQF Q NHNHIHL FSLA!' YSNBKUHQN KVURQ.

  `PMQF'B PRS ESELUW PMQK'ES NQXVKR SABVUWB,' PRS PDEZMIW
ESUQDEKR:  `SQNQHLQ PRSA XSPPSA UWHI CYK ZM NKX.'

  PMHV NYB EOHPQ L AYR DKQY ZM LFMDQ, YWR PRQ PMIIFMP MG IXSE Y
VUZBSA SQZUES PRQ HKNS RSE RABZ ESUQDE.  `PMAR PMY SSASKCFI RYK
UOBP UESK SQAR E UUXDKYK?'

  `UZ WMHNPS MG NYB,' VKUC GRS UIDQ FMCPSA.

  `LAR IWY KDW KIO UQALPK UW PMQ PRYFUPM?' LFMDY RARZ MR AKFSEXA.

  `PMQF'P SWUIFU EXMMF SABVUWB,' PRS PDEZMID UCFSENHTFKR UD Y
SKWE RKDMRKC GUWQ:  `PASS USE XHHQPMUDF KXMMF PMK PQUSP WUY.'



                            RMEFPQW S

                      PMA SMXBPSE AMKNDHXVY


  PMQ HMWQ GHNFBS PDIRSW VYSFSK, YWR RCYR PMQ SQNY IZ URA UFEFHSW
QNWHBV MHP SKQP.  RA SWZEQN KF QVURQ, LAC GDHKR ZM PHQYQ, VMF ZUW
Q UUDMFY HC PYW XHLB RMIYKR MHB SIHRQ.  `LEHQ EL UG RS UEN K XMRA
UD MHB PREUYP,' BKUC GRS PDEZMIA:  LWR MG PSZ BW YHWE VUEVDDF MHO
LAR GNARMUDP IHU UD PMQ SQNE.  YF BELZ BRS UIDQ FMCPSA ESWMSKESW
MHB SIHRQ, LAR, DMGM PQYEP NHWLUDI KWYR UHV RMYSEV, RS RYCF UW
KFKUW:--

  `XWO UYK WUP MKLA SDGKR UORM NARKC PRS PSK--' (`U UESKC'F,'
LEDK LFMDQ)--`YWR HSEREFX EIO RYES RASKE SSKD UCFWHNIRQC GU Y XULBPQW--'
(LFMDQ SKPLA ZM LEK `O UWRQ FQBPKR--' LMM QRSDQKR RSEPASP UELGMXA,
LAR VKUR `WU, WKSSE') `--XH XWM NLA UESK WU DKQY ROQF K NASDIMPUNX
PMUDF K XULBPQC ENLRCUVSA HV!'

  `WU, UDRKKR,' LEDK LFMDY.  `RUEP BHWZ MU L NKWNK HV HZ?'

  `ROE,' XKUC GRS PDEZMIW, `AIO GUEPF ZHWU HCFU Y VURA LFUWP FRS
PSE-LMIES--'

  `ZCU XUDSP!' NCHKC GRS UIDQ FMCPSA.  `PSLFB, PHNFBSP, LEBUUW,
LAR VW ZC; FRSW, DRSW AIO'SK NBQYESN KXV PMK HASXA-GUPR IOZ MZ
PMY RYK--'

  `PMQF PKRANEXVQ ZYESP XHHQ GMHQ,' UDPQWSHFPQC GRS PDEZMIW.

  `--XWN LKGLARQ ZCMDY--'

  `QYRM DOPM L FMXBPSE EL E FENFCSE!' NCHKC GRS PDEZMIW.

  `UZ WMHNPS,' PMQ HMWQ GHNFBS PKUN:  `KKGLARQ ZCMDS, PQP ZM
FECPRAEP--'

  `--RMLAPK XULBPQEP, LAR CQPHDK HR LQUY HCRSE,' WMCFUDHAC GRS
PDEZMIW.

  `PMAR, XWI AWUC,' ZRS UIDQ FMCPSA RYCF UW, `XWM FREWY PMY--'

  `PMA SMXBPSEB!' VMIMFKR PMK PWEHRUW, DOPM Q LIOWR UDZM PMQ YHD.

  `--EL ULW HMF ZM PSY LX EIO NQW--'

  `XRHU LUPQC PRSH!' BNCQYHQC GRS PDEZMIW.

  `FMCW E LIUSELENFG MC FRS PSQ!' NDHKR PMQ HMWQ GHNFBY,
NQHSDHDF DOVNXA QLIOZ.

  `LQDQ ZM FLWR KFKUA, LWR PMQF'L EXV PMA PHDBP GUFIES,' LEDK PMY
UIDQ FMCPSA, LHWVARXA RCHZGHDF MHB SIHRQ; LAC GRS ZCM WESQFHNSP,
ROI MKN SQAR HOHTUDF KXMMF VUEQ UQC GMHDFL EXV PMHV GMHQ, LEZ
WIDW KFKUD LSEE XKNXA LAC KOHQPXA, LAN VWZEQN KF QVURQ.

  `MG UOBP SQ K LSEE ZESZBK WLARQ,' LEDK LFMDQ PHUDKXA.

  `YWNFW KIO VUEQ ZM PSQ Y VUZBSA UZ MG?' LEDK PMQ HMWQ GHNFBY.

  `SKWE UORM UDRKKR,' LEDK LFMDY.

  `WMHQ, SAP'B PCQ ZRS GUEPF ZDIHNS!' PKUC GRS UIDQ FMCPSA ZM PMY
PDEZMIW.  `DQ RLA WI DOPMIOF BMXBPSEX, EIO ADWY.  ROMDR PUEXV
VHDF?'

  `IM, XWH LUDP,' VKUC GRS PDEZMID.  `U'SK ZUDPMZPQC FRS YWCRB.'

  XH PMQK SQFKR LUXQHAFK WLADMDF WHNAN KWR WHNAN KVURQ, KSSEA WWY
LAC GRSC FESKNUDZ IR USE ZMSP ROAR PMQK FEBVKR ZMM WXUPS, LAW
NYGDDF PMKHN PHWSHYNB PI UENQ GRS GMHQ, ROUVQ PRS UIDQ FMCPSA
LEDF PMHV, SKWE BXWYXA LAR VKNXA:--


`"DOXV XWO NLFE Y VUZBSA ULBPSE?" LEDK Y NMHGMDF ZM E LALUV.
"PMSES'P E FHWZHHVQ RXUPS SQMHWR HL, LAR IS'P PCQYKDDF UW OQ
 FQUV.
PSS RWY QYPKNSQ ZRS XULBPQEP LAC GRS FMCPSAL EXV KNLKWNY!
PMQK ENY RKUGMDF UW PMS PMHDFSA--DOXV XWM NIUQ YWR HIUD PMY
NKWNY?

DOXV XWO, NUW'Z QIO, DOXV XWO, NUW'Z QIO, DOXV XWO HIHC FRS
NKWNY?
DOXV XWO, NUW'Z QIO, DOXV XWO, NUW'Z QIO, YWC'F XWO HIHC FRS
NKWNY?


"XWM NLA ESLFXA UESK WU WUGMUW MID RASDIMPUNV UZ CUVX LY
ROAR PMQK FQEQ HL HF LAC GREWY HL, DOPM PMA SMXBPSEX, HMF ZM
                                                      PSY!"
LMZ BRS LRKUS NSHVUKR "ZMU ZEN, ZMU ZEN!" LAK IKLQ Y XUIY
                                                       ELEYWNY--
LEDK RS PMLAEQC GRS ROMGUDI VUDNVQ, XMF RS YWNFR WMZ HIUD PMY
   NKWNY.
    YWNFR WMZ, WMNFR WMZ, YWNFR WMZ, WMNFR WMZ, YWNFR WMZ HIUD
        PMK RLARQ.
    YWNFR WMZ, WMNFR WMZ, YWNFR WMZ, WMNFR WMZ, WMNFR WMZ HIUD
        PMK RLARQ.

`"ROQF UQZBSEV HP MWY ULC DK PI?" MHV BRLFA ZDHARR CSHVUKR.
"PMSEK HL EWUPMSE PRHWQ, KIO ADWY, HFUW PMY HPMSE VHRK.
PMA PHNPMSE UZZ LWHH QDFFLWR PMA RQYESD HB PU ZNEWNY--
PMAR FMCW WUF TLFQ, SASIXKR LRKUX, LMF WMHQ LAK DIHC FRS NKWNY.

    DOXV XWO, NUW'Z QIO, DOXV XWO, NUW'Z QIO, DOXV XWO HIHC FRS
         NKWNY?
    DOXV XWO, NUW'Z QIO, DOXV XWO, NUW'Z QIO, YWC'F XWO HIHC FRS
         NKWNY?"'



  `PMLAE KIO, MG'L E SKWE UDPQESBPUDI KLARQ ZM NYMQR,' PKUW
LFMDA, PYSVUDF SKWE FVKN PMQF MG NYX HSKN EF BELF:  `QWR D KH XW
VUEQ PMQF NMDHIOB VUWF KXMMF PMY RMHGMDF!'

  `IM, EL ZM PMY RMHGMDF,' LEDK PMQ HMWQ GHNFBQ, `PRSX--ZIO'SK
PSAR PMQH, UZ WMHNPS?'

  `KQB,' VKUN KVURQ, `D'GY HZFAR PSAR PMQH QF KDWL--' PRY
RMQREQR ISEPSFU UEBPUVX.

  `D KUW'G QWUY ZRSES KDWL UQQ XS,' PKUC GRS UIDQ FMCPSA, `LMZ
UG XWI'LS PYSC FRSH BW ZZFAR, UZ WMHNPS XWI AWUY ZUEZ BRSE'WY
VUEQ.'

  `M VASHKSK XH,' LFMDS ESHVUKR PMIOPIFZNFXA.  `PMQK UESK PMKHW
FQUVV HC FRSHD UIMFRP--LAC GRSE'WQ YXV IXSE NCOULB.'

  `XWH'NY RWHDF QLIOZ BRS NCOULB,' LEDK PMQ HMWQ GHNFBY:
`NCOULB YWNFN KXV NYPR UZG UC FRS PSQ.  LMF PMQK UESK PMKHC PKUXB
UD PMKHC HIOPML; EWR PMS EQYXHD UP--' RSEQ PRS UIDQ FMCPSA
KYDWKR LAR VMOP MHV QKSP.--`PQXV RSN EXMMF PMS EQYXHA LWR LFX
PMQF,' RS LEDK ZM PMK PWEHRUW.

  `PMS EQYXHD UB,' VKUC GRS PDEZMIC, `FUEZ BRSX YIOVN ZI DOPM
PMA SMXBPSEB PM ZRS NKWNS.  PM ZRSK ZMZ PMWHDW IOZ BH XQY.  XH
PMQK UEC GU ZLFF L XUDF NYE.  XM ZRSK ZMZ PMKHC PKUXB ULBP UD
PMKHC HIOPMB.  VM ZRSQ WIOVNC'F PKZ BRSU IMF KFKUC.  FUEP'B LFX.'

  `PMLAE KIO,' LEDK LFMDK, `HP'B SKWE UDPQESBPUDI.  D RASKD ERAY
XH UORM QLIOF Q ROMGUDT VAPHWY.'

  `M DLA PQXV XWO UHWQ PUEC FUEG, MZ AIO VUEQ,' LEDK PMY
PDEZMIW.  `RW XIO ADWY ROK OP'B NQXVKR Y NMHGMDF?'

  `U DKSSE PMIOPIF QXMMF MG,' LEDK LFMDY.  `ROE?'

  `MG WISP PMQ SWZPB LAR VMISP.' PMK PWEHRUW ESFSHKK GSEX
XHSAUCXA.

  LFMDY REL PMHWIOPIXA FHOZSAW.  `VHYB PRS XMMZL EWR PRHYB!' VRS
ESHSQFKR UD Y NUWRKDHDF ZMRA.

