developing an electronic concordance of the works of Saint Thomas Aquinas
in 1949.  What we are witnessing today, MICHELSON contended, is not the
beginning of this on-line transition but, for at least some humanities
scholars, the turning point in the transition from a print to an
electronic working context.  Coinciding with the on-line transition, the
second striking change is the extent to which research and education
networks are becoming the new medium of scholarly communication.  The
existing Internet and the pending National Education and Research Network
(NREN) represent the new meeting ground where scholars are going for
bibliographic information, scholarly dialogue and feedback, the most
current publications in their field, and high-level educational
offerings.  Traditional scholarly practices are undergoing tremendous
transformations as a result of the emergence and growing prominence of
what is called network-mediated scholarship.

MICHELSON next turned to the second element of the framework she proposed
at the outset of her talk for evaluating the prospects for electronic
text, namely the key information technology trends affecting the conduct
of scholarly communication over the next decade:  1) end-user computing
and 2) connectivity.

End-user computing means that the person touching the keyboard, or
performing computations, is the same as the person who initiates or
consumes the computation.  The emergence of personal computers, along
with a host of other forces, such as ubiquitous computing, advances in
interface design, and the on-line transition, is prompting the consumers
of computation to do their own computing, and is thus rendering obsolete
the traditional distinction between end users and ultimate users.

The trend toward end-user computing is significant to consideration of
the prospects for electronic texts because it means that researchers are
becoming more adept at doing their own computations and, thus, more
competent in the use of electronic media.  By avoiding programmer
intermediaries, computation is becoming central to the researcher's
thought process.  This direct involvement in computing is changing the
researcher's perspective on the nature of research itself, that is, the
kinds of questions that can be posed, the analytical methodologies that
can be used, the types and amount of sources that are appropriate for
analyses, and the form in which findings are presented.  The trend toward
end-user computing means that, increasingly, electronic media and
computation are being infused into all processes of humanities
scholarship, inspiring remarkable transformations in scholarly
communication.

The trend toward greater connectivity suggests that researchers are using
computation increasingly in network environments.  Connectivity is
important to scholarship because it erases the distance that separates
students from teachers and scholars from their colleagues, while allowing
users to access remote databases, share information in many different
media, connect to their working context wherever they are, and
collaborate in all phases of research.

The combination of the trend toward end-user computing and the trend
toward connectivity suggests that the scholarly use of electronic
resources, already evident among some researchers, will soon become an
established feature of scholarship.  The effects of these trends, along
with ongoing changes in scholarly practices, point to a future in which
humanities researchers will use computation and electronic communication
to help them formulate ideas, access sources, perform research,
collaborate with colleagues, seek peer review, publish and disseminate
results, and engage in many other professional and educational activities.

In summary, MICHELSON emphasized four points:  1) A portion of humanities
scholars already consider electronic texts the preferred format for
analysis and dissemination.  2) Scholars are using these electronic
texts, in conjunction with other electronic resources, in all the
processes of scholarly communication.  3) The humanities scholars'
working context is in the process of changing from print technology to
electronic technology, in many ways mirroring transformations that have
occurred or are occurring within the scientific community.  4) These
changes are occurring in conjunction with the development of a new
communication medium:  research and education networks that are
characterized by their capacity to advance scholarship in a wholly unique
way.

MICHELSON also reiterated her three principal arguments:  l) Electronic
texts are best understood in terms of the relationship to other
electronic resources and the growing prominence of network-mediated
scholarship.  2) The prospects for electronic texts lie in their capacity
to be integrated into the on-line network of electronic resources that
comprise the new working context for scholars.  3) Retrospective conversion
of portions of the scholarly record should be a key strategy as information
providers respond to changes in scholarly communication practices.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
VECCIA * AM's evaluation project and public users of electronic resources
* AM and its design * Site selection and evaluating the Macintosh
implementation of AM * Characteristics of the six public libraries
selected * Characteristics of AM's users in these libraries * Principal
ways AM is being used *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Susan VECCIA, team leader, and Joanne FREEMAN, associate coordinator,
American Memory, Library of Congress, gave a joint presentation.  First,
by way of introduction, VECCIA explained her and FREEMAN's roles in
American Memory (AM).  Serving principally as an observer, VECCIA has
assisted with the evaluation project of AM, placing AM collections in a
variety of different sites around the country and helping to organize and
implement that project.  FREEMAN has been an associate coordinator of AM
and has been involved principally with the interpretative materials,
preparing some of the electronic exhibits and printed historical
information that accompanies AM and that is requested by users.  VECCIA
and FREEMAN shared anecdotal observations concerning AM with public users
of electronic resources.  Notwithstanding a fairly structured evaluation
in progress, both VECCIA and FREEMAN chose not to report on specifics in
terms of numbers, etc., because they felt it was too early in the
evaluation project to do so.

AM is an electronic archive of primary source materials from the Library
of Congress, selected collections representing a variety of formats--
photographs, graphic arts, recorded sound, motion pictures, broadsides,
and soon, pamphlets and books.  In terms of the design of this system,
the interpretative exhibits have been kept separate from the primary
resources, with good reason.  Accompanying this collection are printed
documentation and user guides, as well as guides that FREEMAN prepared for
teachers so that they may begin using the content of the system at once.

VECCIA described the evaluation project before talking about the public
users of AM, limiting her remarks to public libraries, because FREEMAN
would talk more specifically about schools from kindergarten to twelfth
grade (K-12).   Having started in spring 1991, the evaluation currently
involves testing of the Macintosh implementation of AM.  Since the
primary goal of this evaluation is to determine the most appropriate
audience or audiences for AM, very different sites were selected.  This
makes evaluation difficult because of the varying degrees of technology
literacy among the sites.  AM is situated in forty-four locations, of
which six are public libraries and sixteen are schools.  Represented
among the schools are elementary, junior high, and high schools.
District offices also are involved in the evaluation, which will
conclude in summer 1993.

VECCIA focused the remainder of her talk on the six public libraries, one
of which doubles as a state library.  They represent a range of
geographic areas and a range of demographic characteristics.  For
example, three are located in urban settings, two in rural settings, and
one in a suburban setting.  A range of technical expertise is to be found
among these facilities as well.  For example, one is an "Apple library of
the future," while two others are rural one-room libraries--in one, AM
sits at the front desk next to a tractor manual.

All public libraries have been extremely enthusiastic, supportive, and
appreciative of the work that AM has been doing.  VECCIA characterized
various users:  Most users in public libraries describe themselves as
general readers; of the students who use AM in the public libraries,
those in fourth grade and above seem most interested.  Public libraries
in rural sites tend to attract retired people, who have been highly
receptive to AM.  Users tend to fall into two additional categories:
people interested in the content and historical connotations of these
primary resources, and those fascinated by the technology.  The format
receiving the most comments has been motion pictures.  The adult users in
public libraries are more comfortable with IBM computers, whereas young
people seem comfortable with either IBM or Macintosh, although most of
them seem to come from a Macintosh background.  This same tendency is
found in the schools.

What kinds of things do users do with AM?  In a public library there are
two main goals or ways that AM is being used:  as an individual learning
tool, and as a leisure activity.  Adult learning was one area that VECCIA
would highlight as a possible application for a tool such as AM.  She
described a patron of a rural public library who comes in every day on
his lunch hour and literally reads AM, methodically going through the
collection image by image.  At the end of his hour he makes an electronic
bookmark, puts it in his pocket, and returns to work.  The next day he
comes in and resumes where he left off.  Interestingly, this man had
never been in the library before he used AM.  In another small, rural
library, the coordinator reports that AM is a popular activity for some
of the older, retired people in the community, who ordinarily would not
use "those things,"--computers.  Another example of adult learning in
public libraries is book groups, one of which, in particular, is using AM
as part of its reading on industrialization, integration, and urbanization
in the early 1900s.

One library reports that a family is using AM to help educate their
children.  In another instance, individuals from a local museum came in
to use AM to prepare an exhibit on toys of the past.  These two examples
emphasize the mission of the public library as a cultural institution,
reaching out to people who do not have the same resources available to
those who live in a metropolitan area or have access to a major library.
One rural library reports that junior high school students in large
numbers came in one afternoon to use AM for entertainment.  A number of
public libraries reported great interest among postcard collectors in the
Detroit collection, which was essentially a collection of images used on
postcards around the turn of the century.  Train buffs are similarly
interested because that was a time of great interest in railroading.
People, it was found, relate to things that they know of firsthand.  For
example, in both rural public libraries where AM was made available,
observers reported that the older people with personal remembrances of
the turn of the century were gravitating to the Detroit collection.
These examples served to underscore MICHELSON's observation re the
integration of electronic tools and ideas--that people learn best when
the material relates to something they know.

VECCIA made the final point that in many cases AM serves as a
public-relations tool for the public libraries that are testing it.  In
one case, AM is being used as a vehicle to secure additional funding for
the library.  In another case, AM has served as an inspiration to the
staff of a major local public library in the South to think about ways to
make its own collection of photographs more accessible to the public.

                                  ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
FREEMAN * AM and archival electronic resources in a school environment *
Questions concerning context * Questions concerning the electronic format
itself * Computer anxiety * Access and availability of the system *
Hardware * Strengths gained through the use of archival resources in
schools *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Reiterating an observation made by VECCIA, that AM is an archival
resource made up of primary materials with very little interpretation,
FREEMAN stated that the project has attempted to bridge the gap between
these bare primary materials and a school environment, and in that cause
has created guided introductions to AM collections.  Loud demand from the
educational community,  chiefly from teachers working with the upper
grades of elementary school through high school, greeted the announcement
that AM would be tested around the country.

FREEMAN reported not only on what was learned about AM in a school
environment, but also on several universal questions that were raised
concerning archival electronic resources in schools.  She discussed
several strengths of this type of material in a school environment as
opposed to a highly structured resource that offers a limited number of
paths to follow.

FREEMAN first raised several questions about using AM in a school
environment.  There is often some difficulty in developing a sense of
what the system contains.  Many students sit down at a computer resource
and assume that, because AM comes from the Library of Congress, all of
American history is now at their fingertips.  As a result of that sort of
mistaken judgment, some students are known to conclude that AM contains
nothing of use to them when they look for one or two things and do not
find them.  It is difficult to discover that middle ground where one has
a sense of what the system contains.  Some students grope toward the idea
of an archive, a new idea to them, since they have not previously
experienced what it means to have access to a vast body of somewhat
random information.

Other questions raised by FREEMAN concerned the electronic format itself.
For instance, in a school environment it is often difficult both for
teachers and students to gain a sense of what it is they are viewing.
They understand that it is a visual image, but they do not necessarily
know that it is a postcard from the turn of the century, a panoramic
photograph, or even machine-readable text of an eighteenth-century
broadside, a twentieth-century printed book, or a nineteenth-century
diary.  That distinction is often difficult for people in a school
environment to grasp.  Because of that, it occasionally becomes difficult
to draw conclusions from what one is viewing.

FREEMAN also noted the obvious fear of the computer, which constitutes a
difficulty in using an electronic resource.  Though students in general
did not suffer from this anxiety, several older students feared that they
were computer-illiterate, an assumption that became self-fulfilling when
they searched for something but failed to find it.  FREEMAN said she
believed that some teachers also fear computer resources, because they
believe they lack complete control.  FREEMAN related the example of
teachers shooing away students because it was not their time to use the
system.  This was a case in which the situation had to be extremely
structured so that the teachers would not feel that they had lost their
grasp on what the system contained.

A final question raised by FREEMAN concerned access and availability of
the system.  She noted the occasional existence of a gap in communication
between school librarians and teachers.  Often AM sits in a school
library and the librarian is the person responsible for monitoring the
system.  Teachers do not always take into their world new library
resources about which the librarian is excited.  Indeed, at the sites
where AM had been used most effectively within a library, the librarian
was required to go to specific teachers and instruct them in its use.  As
a result, several AM sites will have in-service sessions over a summer,
in the hope that perhaps, with a more individualized link, teachers will
be more likely to use the resource.

A related issue in the school context concerned the number of
workstations available at any one location.  Centralization of equipment
at the district level, with teachers invited to download things and walk
away with them, proved unsuccessful because the hours these offices were
open were also school hours.

Another issue was hardware.  As VECCIA observed, a range of sites exists,
some technologically advanced and others essentially acquiring their
first computer for the primary purpose of using it in conjunction with
AM's testing.  Users at technologically sophisticated sites want even
more sophisticated hardware, so that they can perform even more
sophisticated tasks with the materials in AM.  But once they acquire a
newer piece of hardware, they must learn how to use that also; at an
unsophisticated site it takes an extremely long time simply to become
accustomed to the computer, not to mention the program offered with the
computer.  All of these small issues raise one large question, namely,
are systems like AM truly rewarding in a school environment, or do they
simply act as innovative toys that do little more than spark interest?

FREEMAN contended that the evaluation project has revealed several strengths
that were gained through the use of archival resources in schools, including:

     * Psychic rewards from using AM as a vast, rich database, with
     teachers assigning various projects to students--oral presentations,
     written reports, a documentary, a turn-of-the-century newspaper--
     projects that start with the materials in AM but are completed using
     other resources; AM thus is used as a research tool in conjunction
     with other electronic resources, as well as with books and items in
     the library where the system is set up.

     * Students are acquiring computer literacy in a humanities context.

     * This sort of system is overcoming the isolation between disciplines
     that often exists in schools.  For example, many English teachers are
     requiring their students to write papers on historical topics
     represented in AM.  Numerous teachers have reported that their
     students are learning critical thinking skills using the system.

     * On a broader level, AM is introducing primary materials, not only
     to students but also to teachers, in an environment where often
     simply none exist--an exciting thing for the students because it
     helps them learn to conduct research, to interpret, and to draw
     their own conclusions.  In learning to conduct research and what it
     means, students are motivated to seek knowledge.  That relates to
     another positive outcome--a high level of personal involvement of
     students with the materials in this system and greater motivation to
     conduct their own research and draw their own conclusions.

     * Perhaps the most ironic strength of these kinds of archival
     electronic resources is that many of the teachers AM interviewed
     were desperate, it is no exaggeration to say, not only for primary
     materials but for unstructured primary materials.  These would, they
     thought, foster personally motivated research, exploration, and
     excitement in their students.  Indeed, these materials have done
     just that.  Ironically, however, this lack of structure produces
     some of the confusion to which the newness of these kinds of
     resources may also contribute.  The key to effective use of archival
     products in a school environment is a clear, effective introduction
     to the system and to what it contains.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Nothing known, quantitatively, about the number of
humanities scholars who must see the original versus those who would
settle for an edited transcript, or about the ways in which humanities
scholars are using information technology * Firm conclusions concerning
the manner and extent of the use of supporting materials in print
provided by AM to await completion of evaluative study * A listener's
reflections on additional applications of electronic texts * Role of
electronic resources in teaching elementary research skills to students *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the discussion that followed the presentations by MICHELSON,
VECCIA, and FREEMAN, additional points emerged.

LESK asked if MICHELSON could give any quantitative estimate of the
number of humanities scholars who must see or want to see the original,
or the best possible version of the material, versus those who typically
would settle for an edited transcript.  While unable to provide a figure,
she offered her impressions as an archivist who has done some reference
work and has discussed this issue with other archivists who perform
reference, that those who use archives and those who use primary sources
for what would be considered very high-level scholarly research, as
opposed to, say, undergraduate papers, were few in number, especially
given the public interest in using primary sources to conduct
genealogical or avocational research and the kind of professional
research done by people in private industry or the federal government.
More important in MICHELSON's view was that, quantitatively, nothing is
known about the ways in which, for example, humanities scholars are using
information technology.  No studies exist to offer guidance in creating
strategies.  The most recent study was conducted in 1985 by the American
Council of Learned Societies (ACLS), and what it showed was that 50
percent of humanities scholars at that time were using computers.  That
constitutes the extent of our knowledge.

Concerning AM's strategy for orienting people toward the scope of
electronic resources, FREEMAN could offer no hard conclusions at this
point, because she and her colleagues were still waiting to see,
particularly in the schools, what has been made of their efforts.  Within
the system, however, AM has provided what are called electronic exhibits-
-such as introductions to time periods and materials--and these are
intended to offer a student user a sense of what a broadside is  and what
it might tell her or him.  But FREEMAN conceded that the project staff
would have to talk with students next year, after teachers have had a
summer to use the materials, and attempt to discover what the students
were learning from the materials.  In addition, FREEMAN described
supporting materials in print provided by AM at the request of local
teachers during a meeting held at LC.  These included time lines,
bibliographies, and other materials that could be reproduced on a
photocopier in a classroom.  Teachers could walk away with and use these,
and in this way gain a better understanding of the contents.  But again,
reaching firm conclusions concerning the manner and extent of their use
would have to wait until next year.

As to the changes she saw occurring at the National Archives and Records
Administration (NARA) as a result of the increasing emphasis on
technology in scholarly research, MICHELSON stated that NARA at this
point was absorbing the report by her and Jeff Rothenberg addressing
strategies for the archival profession in general, although not for the
National Archives specifically.  NARA is just beginning to establish its
role and what it can do.  In terms of changes and initiatives that NARA
can take, no clear response could be given at this time.

GREENFIELD remarked two trends mentioned in the session.  Reflecting on
DALY's opening comments on how he could have used a Latin collection of
text in an electronic form, he said that at first he thought most scholars
would be unwilling to do that.  But as he thought of that in terms of the
original meaning of research--that is, having already mastered these texts,
researching them for critical and comparative purposes--for the first time,
the electronic format made a lot of sense.  GREENFIELD could envision
growing numbers of scholars learning the new technologies for that very
aspect of their scholarship and for convenience's sake.

Listening to VECCIA and FREEMAN, GREENFIELD thought of an additional
application of electronic texts.  He realized that AM could be used as a
guide to lead someone to original sources.  Students cannot be expected
to have mastered these sources, things they have never known about
before.  Thus, AM is leading them, in theory, to a vast body of
information and giving them a superficial overview of it, enabling them
to select parts of it.  GREENFIELD asked if any evidence exists that this
resource will indeed teach the new user, the K-12 students, how to do
research.  Scholars already know how to do research and are applying
these new tools.  But he wondered why students would go beyond picking
out things that were most exciting to them.

FREEMAN conceded the correctness of GREENFIELD's observation as applied
to a school environment.  The risk is that a student would sit down at a
system, play with it, find some things of interest, and then walk away.
But in the relatively controlled situation of a school library, much will
depend on the instructions a teacher or a librarian gives a student.  She
viewed the situation not as one of fine-tuning research skills but of
involving students at a personal level in understanding and researching
things.  Given FRS FIDKLARQ UWQ RLA ESRQDGQ YP BRMWZV, UZ BRSC LQRIUSP
ZHBVMVSA ZM PQQNR SSAHQCFENE WSPQYCNR PVDXVB PH XFMRKCFX, RMHRM UD ULQM
UWS HENGMNMFLN SMVNEDHLA LEDK PRY REL PQQNMHDF RSN PUGPM PDKNSEB.
PNYSUQW NUWNBINKR PMQF UDPCIWMNUDP FRS DKQY UZ ZUXVWYUDZ IRA'X HDW FEPM
UZ UDAMHDX, YMHRM HV SPPSCFUKXVX YUEP CSPQYCNR SCFKUXB, UDXIXSSP UIES
PMLA PQQNMHDF PHQRUGMD VEUVXB.  ZM PMSPQ RIUHQCFB SQRDMY LWVKR PMY
MXPSDSQFHIC FUEZ BRS UDKDGDNILF PQQNRSN EWR PMA HPS UZ Q NESQFDGY
ESXHHNRQ, NEPMSE PMLA QU MGPSFU, PSQHKR ZM UQEQ PMQ EQK KDZLSEARRQ.
XHHQ BRMIUXL EWR XHHQ PQQNRSEP ENQ HYEUDP KBWASSACF HLY HZ FRS ALFMES
UZ NCMGMDLF PMUDVDDF LAC GQYRMUDP VVDXVB, VRS LEDK.

WMWNHNDHDF DOPM PMSPS EQHENEV, NKXA NBHXKR PMS PSPVHUW DOPM PMQ PMIIFMP PMQF
PMQ HHWQ PUEF TWHNIRQEP HEIWMNKR ZUC PQYRMSEL EWR ZUE PRMUXENB PI OPS DOPM
PMKHE PFMRKCFB, PRS UIES LHWBSPLPNF PMKHE SSAQMWHDUR TWHNIQMX RIOVN HEIXY.

                                 ******

PSBVHID UH.  VMIN YWR PQXV

UKQBHAVURA RSBV, KDESQMHW, ALGMUWLF RKUIRLPCQFHIA FQLHWQFHWE, XSESKN KB
UIRKNEZMW HZ FRS "PRWY-LAC-GASX" BSPVHUW.  PRA RMZKR PMQF Y
AMSPGMUW-LAN-KRLRYE HSEHIR DIOVN ZUXVWY QYRM HESPARFQGMUW.

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
OQXUALX * HSKDSHKN YWR WMCFARZ MZ TSEPSHL * HSEPAHP' HDHUQWE UQPQDHLFB
YSHVG MA L XEBPQH-UDRKHSWRARF, QCNMHLKF UHWU * Q WMWNSPVHUW * PQBZNLX
ELHSQMX HZ TSEPSHL * ZMUXB PI OPS DOPM PMK PESQE PQBZ * HESHENKR UDKDRQB
LAN GNFB-FYSP BQYCNRSV HR FSEPSHL * ARFVHVI-PESQE YWCR PSENRM SAKNB PW
NBHXS PFMWK UZ YWCRL EWR WMWNSHPB * ALGDFKGMDF HSEPAHB LQ ZNEDMDF WIDW
UDKDRQL * HVHDF PMK HWMWUPDEFOE ZM HSNPHWH CSPQYCNO *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

ASVU OQXUALB, HLAKFUDP KKDZME, HSEPSHL HEIHQRP, MENLKCR NADGSEVHZQ, GUEPZ
FKSK LA IXSEGDYR UZ HSEPAHL, E FLDPQ, RUXFLXMNEGMSK APZUCP LQPSN KZ
UEDSENN IDUSKEPMGQ XMF DOPM WMCFDHLMZMEP LAR NUXFLXMNEZMEP XUNQPQN KZ
ANHQWHHL NADGSEVHGMSP LAR NUXSAPKV HC FRS NAMGKR BPQFSP (K.P., XMDRIHW,
UQWEFLWR, ZHUIAL, RMMDKFI, XHDIDDUL).  UNARKR GDHUQDHXA XQ PMY
LARACLSET/DTS HEIHQRZ, CMGU EWVMGHIALF UNAKDDF PNIU EFFSS, RENLKCR, LAW
PMS HQNEYCR MOUQDUGMSP UDBPMGMFQ, YUIDF MZRSEP, HSEPAHV HL E UOBFHUKRUK,
OEHSCPYSFMLF NKFQLQPS ZUC PQYRMUDF KWR ESPSENRM UW NBELVHNQV FESQE
DMGDVUFYGMUW, ROMDO REL ESSAELKR UD PASCNLWE 1992 UD SKEPHIA 1.0 LWR
KDBPDHLMPQC VX ZLFA HDUSKEPMGE ZESBV.

WMRLHVGMDF ARGMESXA UZ HEHUENQ OQFSEUKXB, HSEPAHV HWNFNRKL EWNHKCF PDYSY
PQBZL EWR PCLABXQFHIRL UZ PMHXQ PYSPB; NQFQXUP KCFDHSP--PMQF HV, UOPSOU
NQFQXUP KCFDHSP, WUF BMVNEWE NQFQXUP KCFDHSP--UW LKPSB, VMGSP, WMUDB,
BRNFTFHNQ, YWR ENRMYQUXIZMDLF MXHKQMB; HEFL; EWR K NMDGMUWENK, YUIDF
MZRSE PIOCNSP.  PMA ROUSQW HZ UVMQRPB LAC GRS MXHKQML PHW ROMDM RQFLFIZ
ARPCHKP SVOBP ENQ YWBIUFEDUKR XQ PMIOLEWRX HT NUXHW HUKFSP, ROMDO
WMRLGMFMPQ Q UKUHW PAQFHNY HZ FRS NKFQLQPS.  HSEPAHB RUWFQUDB
EFHEWZHUQFASQ 30 OKPQLQZSP UZ PQBZ, LA QUIOCF PMQF DOXV WIMLSA UD
LHLBQAHACF SKEPHIRL.  UD KNKDGMUW ZM PMSPS HDHUQWE UQPQDHLFB, PRS HSEPAHB
HEIHQRP MEL SQAR LMUVKDDF ZMUXL PHW HLUDP FRSO, BYEUDF KWBSPL EWR
ALGDFKGMUW QYVHSE, PMK PUYX LKHDF ZM LMUVR GENZ MZ FRS ASQRPCUWMD
ARGDWHCUARG CHVNMBVKR QYNSHKD HC FRS UICWUDI DW DMHRM BPINARPB HW
BRMIFLEP NQW DHWY DMGM PRSHD XHHNRQB.

PMK RQHUWBPNEGMUW UZ HSEPAHX RUVX BMIY WAFK Y PNQNGMUW UZ PMS EQYX NHWY
PMQF UEV PUWK HCFI HM, TQRLNPS PMS HWHHKQM UEC GU ZQNQ PRS KDSAOBY UZ
ROQF ZM ARPQC DRSR FMFGMDF XHHQPMUDI DCFI UQNMHRA-ESKNQLSA ZUCH:  PRIOVN
UWQ YHU ZUD SSEE ODIM ENLVUZQ HW UQEQ WMWNSPVHUWV HW UCRSE ZM PKZ BRS
UQPQDHLF UD?  VHWNS HSEPSHL RKDMRKC GW ZTF ZUD SSEE ODIM ENLVUZQ, LFX UZ
MGP HDHUQWE UQPQDHLFP SVOBP UD E LEXPQU-HWRSHARRKCF--UDXHULN EV HG MB
ZHBVMVSA ZM SQ XEBPQH-UDRKHSWRARF--QCNMHLKF UHWI.  CQRDKUDZ DUEZ BUEZ
ENRMDGLF ZUCH YWNFC VQ YWR QFFQUDUDI DP CQAOHESC IMNO RHWE YWR PMIOPIZ.
ZUE SLYHTSA, LFB FRS PQBZL EES UQDEKR HF UD VPUB, ROMDO RUVX LQ HKNY
WMHTQFMVSA DOPM PMK POHRKVURAX HZ FRS PQBZ ARWMKDDF UDMGUKGMSK (PQO) DRSW
PMQK ENK HBVHAW.

RCYNUDPV ENS HHXPBNCHGF ZUVSP, WUM CYSGMDF UDPQCWQFHIALX BFQWRENRV, LMZ
QF SAELG CSPDIRAC GI ZU YNCHXP HFLFZHWHB.  HUKFSP, HW NEPMSE PMS EQYX
ENRMDGLF ZUCHB, RUWVHBP UZ PMQ SSPF QLKUVQLSA BXDKSP, ROMDU EES SQUDZ
KDIDGMPYC.  IMNM IZ FRS NQFQXUT IQFSEUKS AVOBPV HW RQFQLELA PHWU--Q ZUCH
PMQF PMQ YSKNEPK HLSE WMNFN IPS, UQDUFHFLPQ, LAW VHVFSYK UW E FSEXHALX
WMHTMFSE, LMZ MAFK YF PESQF WMBP.  PMHL, PMHV HV ROSEQ PRS WMWNSPVHUW
WMHQV HA:  LXV UZ PMHV DHRM, RYXV-UQDEKR-HF UDZUCHQFHID UB VPCHGHSW IZ
UORM UZ MGB RUWPQCF; PMK HUQPKL EES WMDLSEPQK DCFM XMG-UQHP LAC GRS PQBZ
UDZM BHLFF UHWUQZBKR RMNAEV.  LFB FMHV HAUHWUQGMUW NQC FRSC LK HHTHWPQW
UDZM OEHSCNENN KWR NHW UA L UHR-CLAPK UQDMCFHXO, RMHRM HV ROQF HSEPAHB
HLSEP RKLQ.  PMHL PQNP MEL UQRK MG ZHBVMVSA ZUE HSEPSHL ZM QFFQUD DORK
HLA PKUNSE WEFDKXA.  DOPMIOZ BMIPS ENRMDGLF ZUCHB PRS OEHSCNENK GSEVHUW
SQUDI KQHUWBPNEPQR NIOVN WUM TQ HKNY SELUVK, YWR PMS HWHHKQM WMNFR WMZ
UESK PMS HMZARGMLF ZM UISK ZM MZRSN PHWHB LAC IQNMHRAL EWR XHZFNYES EL
PMQK EFHSEN, WURA UZ ROMDM HAUHWUQGMUW HV UD HSEPAHX HC FRS NR.

UZ PMA ROUSEIOB HNFGMHQKDY LPHQRPB UZ HSEPAHB, HAXUWEL ZUNMPSW IC FRS
PQBZNLS.  FENZ MZ NUEM CYESP HSEPAHB VMNU E FSQYLHES ZM HLQ, HAXUWEL
LEDK, HV PMHV APZUCP QF PSQUSABV UDPQPDQFHIA LWR PMQ YVMVUZQ ZM UISK
ENIOWR XMPM GDLHLF LAC GYSFMLF UQPQDHLF.  HSEPAHL EXBI UKNQ PRS RKDMVHUW
WUZ BU YZBQHTF ZM UDPQEHESG MPB UQPQDHLF LAQ OHWQ PUEW URA UDPQEHESPB XQ
PSSAQMUDT.  VMF, OQXUALP SHTUEVHPYR, GSEPSHL HV WUM QIOEPYRENA:  RW
XEXVQLHL YSHVPB.  PMSEK HL RH YZLHWZ BI WAPUDS RWY UWQ PQYRMSP Q FHZMD
HLUDP TSEPSHL, LFPMIOPI PMS HWHHKQM UQK QSKCFNLXVQ WUXSAQM FEHSEP XQ
HSHZSA ROI MKLA HPSK DZ BM ZQYRM.  NEPMSE, HSEPAHL EHUB PH ZWHGDRK
HEHUENQ OQFSEUKV UA L VDWR UZ ASQRPCUWMD VUSCENK, YR ASAQMWHDUR BLACVWZ,
XH ZM LEK, OW DMHRM BPINARPB LAR VRMUXENX RMI ENY RHWVDDF UW PMHV
UQPQDHLF NQR ASZXUES XQ PMQHPSXSSP.  DOPM PMQF, OQXUALV RQHUWBPNEPQW
HSEPAHB, LKPUDDUDF DOPM PMS HSEPSHL FKPQNYQ, ZRS GUEPZ BMHDF UWS PYSB
HFUW HZARUDP TSEPSHL--LA APZUCP UD FECP ZM XHXSQ PRS WMCFYSFMLFOGUDZ
HEMXSAO--CMHRM PQXVB PRS HLSE ROQF PMS PEXPQC QUWFQUDB.

OQXUALV RQHUWBPNEPQW IAFK Y SKWE BHLFS FHWGMUW, SQIDWLUDZ DMGR HDHUQWE
PQBZL EWR NHWLUDZ IZL PMQ RR-CIU.  UEGDDF PSSAQMKR YQBROEFNP' HWHHQPMAHB
XMNAR, DMHRM NYB SHKNYLXK HD FESQE LAR KDFVUPR HEQPZQ UORM UD PMS PQUY
PSTIARPB ZMPKPMSE, OQXUALV RQHUWBPNEPQC GWZXB ZM HLY RMGM PRS PDYSQ GYSZ,
XHHQPMUDF DMZ ZHBVMVSA DOPM Q LWZA:  VWZVDDF HF PMK RMDGMUWENK QCFWE ZUCH
UZ LA NAULUHVUEN YWCR UD PDYSE YZFSE LHVMQRGMDF MG ZM HSEPAHB'
UIEHMIXUIDNQF LALXAVHL PHW LFB FRS PQBZL.  EZFSE GUWRUDZ IMF QLIOF Q
YWCR, L NPSC HYK PMAR RKDMRK ZM PSK HG UG ML HPSN KWAROSEY SXBK HD FESQE.
SQNQHLK SELF QUINAPB UZ UDRKVODF LHZSHWF QXV UZ PMS HDHUQWE UQPQDHLF, UWY
NQA UUDW IMF ROSEY SXBQ YXV ZUCHX HU L FECPMDNFEN PDYSY DHWN KZSQYW--
UZPQW LMZ Q FDHGDLF UQZBSE SQNQHLK PESQE HV MHPIXA UDUFQRPQN.  GHNPMSE,
VHWNQ PRS BPHWX WZ TWHHQPMAHP REL ZM WI DOPM PMY HDHIDRL UZ LENCUGMDQ, Y
HLSE UQX YHVM PH XFMWK LAR KSZXUES LENCUGMDK HD FESQE VUPQNEFMES; XQ
ZQGHDF LENCUGMDK HCFU Y BHLFX NUDWIN, Y HLSE ZISP ZM PMY SDFVUPR-PDYSY
YWCR VUBP--XHHQPMUDZ IRA NQWLMZ WI DOPMIOZ BRS WMHTMFSE (HSEPAHP REL
UDRKSYC GRS RKGUDUGMUWX HG UPB KDQMHIALWE)--PMS PPCUDP VQNDHGURQ EFHSENB
UD PMK RAPUDMGHIRL UZ PMSPS POVZQ-GUSK YWCRX.  HRA UQQ ZRSA UUDW IMF
ROSEQ YWA UZ PMHXY RHWRV HV HLKR UD PMY RHWE(V) UZ E FENGMNMFLN EMFMIW.
PMY SDFVUPR RKGUDUGMUWL EES WUF BQHUQGMPYW.

LFX UZ FRS UDKDRQV RDHGDDF PMHV VDWR UZ HLKFY RSEY HDHIDALXVK WKSHVKR ZUW
PHYSC, IAXUWEL MXPSDSKR; UD MZRSC DHWRV, LFB FUEG QUDW IG UAUHWUQGMUW--
LFF UHWHB UZ LFX NHWRV, ROSEQ PRSK QVOBP, PMK RMDGMUWENA ZHWC MRSQ XASUWZ
ZM--RYES WMXVQRPQK DCFI WQFQLELSP, ROMDO RUVS ASZKRMGS PQYCNMHDF.  PMAR
MG NYV RHVWMSKESC GUEZ MRA NQW RM ZMHDFB VQYCNMHDF UD PMSPK RQFQLELSP
PMQF WMNFR WMZ SQ WIRA PSENRMUDI DC FRS UNXV PQBZB.  PMOL, EBFMIIFM PRSES
ENA PNFB-FYSP BQYCNRSV HR FSEPSHL, UORM UZ PMY RHWV DV RUWQ SSRUDC GRS
BRARSP, HLUDP TESFEESK DWRMDSP.  ES PMK HWRYSUDP FUEG MV RUWQ SSRUDC GRS
BRARSP, OQXUALP HIHCFKR IOZ BUEZ CMGMIMF PMS PTIF UHWHB UZ PMQ PYSG, MZ
WMNFR WMZ SQ WIRA APPAQMDGASQ.  OMNM IZ FMHV HWRYSUDI DB LELKR UW PMY
BPNHQMHNSP PMQF ENQ HKNY SSZVUDMM TQ ZRS VPUB FQZVUDZ.

MG NYL PIOWR PMQF UWY HZ FRS PMUDPV UQWA UZ HSEPAHL' RUW-PDYSE-DQYKDDF
HLSEV RI HB VFQCP PNIU PMK RMDGMUWENK YWR PMAR UISK UDZM PMQ RXUPS BPINX
UZ YWCRL EWR WMWNSHPB GDQ FMHV EUDW IP ADFVUPR-PDYSY DHWR VQYCNM, SX YMHRM
HQLAB PRSQ ODIMP PSSAQM Q NUWRQTF.  PMHV YSSEDMPS UEB LYSA LBVDIRAC GW
BPINARPB UD WMES WMHNPSL EP MENLKCR--ZM BPINK Y WMWNSHM TA XWZVDDF ZUC PRS
ARFVHVO RHWK DC FRS KDQMHIALWE, GUWRUDP FRS PDYSY DHWRV, LAC GRSA UUDKDDF
PMY RHWRV UD PMK PESQE LMZ, MT NIOEPS, EQYKDDF QNWHBV UD PMY SDFVUPR.
PMQF PQXVB PRSU Q PDQYG CQYF LXMMF ROQF Q FNERLFLGMUW HQLAL EX RASX.

PRIOVN UWQ YXBW YHVM PH XYS HUKFSP PMQF UESK ZM WI DOPM LENCUGMDQ, PUEZ
HSEPUW YWNFK IM ZM ZRS MXHKQM EQX YHWR VQYCNO, RMHRM LFXURX UWQ PW
HSNPHWU Q VHUHFLD EUDW IG UWRYS ESPCHKLKX UC FRS NKFQLQPS UZ
ENRMYQUXIZMDLF MXHKQMX.  RMGMIMF YWCRP, HMDFMESL EES HLASSPP; HSEPSHL UEB
WUP CQYRMKR PMS HIHCF ROSEK HM QLA WI UORM DOPM HUKFSP PMQF ENA RMZ
NQFQXUPKC.  GMOL, EBFMIIFM HG MP HHXVHLXK HR FSEPSHL DOPM PQBZ LAK DUQPKB
ZM ALGDFKPQ XQ ADWYUDZ DRSES UWY RLAPB ZM ARN IT--ZHW YSQUFSQ, Y
ESN-GDIHNK SELA PWHC MRS XMBPUW UOPSOU UZ GURA ENPB--UWQ RLA HSNPHWC MMHB
VDWR UZ ALGDFKGMUW SKWE QYVHXA XQ PCQNUDI KWYD UWRMDSP.  OQXUALB
UVFNBPNEPQR VKSSELF PKRADHR BRQRAX HP LQNDHGURQ UW LKPSB.  PRS PAQFHNSP
RKUIRLPCQFKR RKDHSKN GWHH TSEPSHL 1.0; SKEPHIW 2.0 DUVV UHTSAHQCF KSAR
SQZBSE HQLAX HP NQPDHKSLF.

OQXUALB RXUPSC VA XWZVDDF QF UWY HZ FRS GHQMHNSP LAR WMZUDF KFKUD PMQF
UWQ RLA WI K FESQF RKLF UZ ESPSENRM HLUDP FRS MDUWIZNEHRK YX RASF LB PRS
PQBZL.  PHW UDBPLARQ, BPINARPB UD Q NHWQ RIOEPQ YP MENLKCR PMHV KQEN RYES
MHPIXA UDPQESBPKR UD PDYSQ DUWRQTFX HZ LHWKHFDSEL EWR ESHESPARFQGMUWX HZ
WUD-FESQEB.  VM ZRSE ZSEZUCHKR K FESQF RKLF UZ ESPSENRM, XMPM DOPM PQBZB
(K.P., RSWHWIFML) EWR DOPM MDUWIZNEHRX WD LELSP LAR NIHRL, UW MIC ZRS
PDYSEV ZHCPNEKQR WUW-PDYSEV.  QF PMS PQUQ PHUQ, YCP MHBPHWUKRL ROH XFMWK
MDUWIZNEHRX YSEQ YXBI HCFSESPPQN, KWR RYES QLSA ZM HLQ PMHB HQFSEUKX.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
KDBRHLVHUW * UDRKVODF LAR VQYCNUEVMVUZQ UZ LFS ADFVUPR YWCRV HR FSEPSHL *
PSSKNEF UQYFMESX HZ TSEPSHL 1.0 * PSSKNEX VKSASX HT NHLZMUHFYGMUW
ZHBVMVSA * HSEPAHL HPSN GHW PKRANES ANINQGMUW * HSEPAHP' SZLQRPB UW
KRMNQFHIW * NUWPQBZNLV UAUHWUQGMUW UD HSEPAHB * HKUW NUEXVARPK LAW
QHHRELHV UZ HSEPAHB *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

PSSKNES FIHCFP SHQDPKR UD PMK RHVNMBVHIC FUEF ZUXXURYC IAXUWEL'P HESPSCFQFHIW.

LFPMIOPI OQXUALP RKN WUG CQHUWBPNEPQR GSEPSHL' QLUVMGQ ZM WWHBV-PSENRM
WINMHQCFB, VRS WMAUHDHQC GUEF QXV ARFVHVO RHWRV UD HSEPAHL EES UDRKSYW
LAR NLA SQ PSENRMKR.  XH, ZUE SLYHTSA, LENCUGMDQ RIOVN UESK SQAR PSENRMKR
UD LFB FYSPB, PMS RHVZMDHNQS ABVYK, LAN KXV PMQ RQFLFIZHA ARPCHKX RMGO
PMKHC RSPNCHGGMUWV--HR LMICP, UD LFX UZ TSEPSHL.

XMUXQYA FIZMD HV WUG MR FSEPSHL 1.0 LMZ CUVX LQ YWVKR ZM PMA RYSZ
SKEPHIA, LBFMIIFU ER AZLHWG MB LKHDF UQRK WUZ BH WSPPCMDF TSEPSHL ZM Y
NKFQLQPS UD ROMDM IRA HOBP HSNPHWHB PSENRMUDT, VWZSALA HW MZRSCDHVK.  HZ
HV ZHBVMVSA ZM UISK FLPQNEXVQ ZREIOPI PMK RMWOUARPB XQ PSSAQMUDF K YWCR
UWK HV HCFSESPPQK DA LWR PSSAQMUDF KA LESY UG UAUHWUQGMUW UWK HB
UDPQESBPKR UD LAC GWEUDP FU XWZQ GUEZ CHWN IG HC FUEF QESY.

VHWNS HSEPSHL NYV RKSASHZKR UD OEHSCNENR, VKSSELF SASKXB UZ NMBPIUOGQFHIW
ENS HHXVHLXS.  PHUFSQ YMFMIDHDF ZMUXP SVOBP PMQF LFXUY WRA ZM NCQYPQ
LAWUFQPQR GQFRP PMWHIFM PRS UDZUCHQFHIW, DMHRM ENA HPSUNF UHW WUPQ-FQVDDF
LAN GHW FIDKKR ZMHNL PHW PQQNMHDF FHEHHXSP LAN GHW YSZHVHZMWE DCMGUDZ.
DOPM L FMGFBQ HHWK HDFAROHZQ MG HV ZHBVMVSA ZM SQIDC FU YWV HW LHLBGMFMPQ
UQPQDHLF UD HSEPAHB.

HSEPAHP REL WUM TYSA NPSR VI UMNU PHW NBELVHRB KRMNQFHIA LL PHW PKRANEX
KRMNQFHIW, DRSES MG PSQHKR ZM UESK LA HUFEQM UW PMS PFMRKCFV HC FRS WMES
WMHNPS QF UEDSENN (K PKRANES NQAOHESR NIOEPQ PUEP BFMRKCFB HHLZ BYEK HW
RQCPKUA LESEL).  BPINARPB RYES QLSA ZM HLS HDHUQWE UQPQDHLF UORM UIES.

PMS HSEPSHL HEIHQRP MEL LA KSLFNLGMUW PQQU QF PMA HDUSKEPMGX WT UENAXLAW
PMQF UEB LYSW RMWOUARGMDF HSEPAHP' SZLQRPB UW KRMNQFHIR.  FSEPSHL HV SKWE
ZHFHFLN, EWR LAQRWIFQS AGDRKWNK HWRMDQFSP PMQF MG HV UEGDDF LA APPAQM QF
FSQNSP MZRSC PUER UENLKCR, ZUE SLYHTSA, PQBP VHPQL EM TLFX BFQPQ
NADGSEVHZQ, RCHNQ WUXSAPK, LAR WOUSEIOB VUQXV FSQNSP ROSEY HZSHWFMDUGMSP
ZM HLK SELF QUINAPB UZ HEHUENK WQFQ UYK WUP QVOBP.  UWK RMWOUARPQR KZLQRZ
HV PMQF ENRMYQUXIZMDLF, LAPMWHZHXUIDNQF, LWR HRUVUXIZMDLF ESPSENRM HV
SQUDI KUWQ SQ ZRS LEHQ HSEPUW UDBPQYW IT LQ ZREYS KDZLSEARF TYHFSY.

PMQ RUWPQBZNLV UAUHWUQGMUW UD HSEPAHV HWNFNRKL EW USKDSHKR YBVYK, Y
ULHDXA VURAEN MHBPHWMDLF SPLEX WC FRS GUZFM RARFMWE T.Q. PMQF HEIXDKSP
VUDAV HCFM ZRS HEHUENQ OQFSEUKS (A.P., ISEIWMZHL, PMMNKWDKSP, LAW
FSMFENRM), GDE LUQXV PDYK NARKEPWMDHDF (UW PMS PNCYSW) UU FUDEQW
FEBVKFSP.  PMSPQ YES UEWRUQRK VUDAV HCFW ZPMSE UQPQDHLF.

ZM KDZLSEARP QBZARPB, UIBP UZ PMS HWHNIQMHIW DHWY DEL WIRA QF UEDSENW,
ROSEQ PRS HSHZSA LAC GRS QAOHTHARF QES XUNQPQC.  IMNM IZ FRS
WMXVQLHWQFDGQ YQMDGMGK ODLUXSKW VQFQ NUXSAQMHIA LWR BPNHQMHNUDT, VQRLNPS
PMQ HKUW NUEXVARPK LAC GRS QHHRELHV UZ HSEPAHV HB PRS FKPMSEUDZ IZ
HEHUENQ OQFSEUKB, FUEG MB, LOHVNUDF K HLAPNF ARGDWHCUARF ZHW BPINKODF
NBELVHNQV FESQRQ, RUXSAQMUDI KQFY, LWR UQVDDF MG HLAPNF.
XEBPQHB-LOHVNUDI DV RAPUDMGASA WMZ PMQ HKUW NUWRQCW.  PMHL, UORM UZ PMY
YWDE UEV HDLUXSKR DDHGMDF SPLEEX, WMXVQRGMDF UDZUCHQFHIW, CYRDHGMDF MG,
LAC GKFIDDF MG.  PMQF NQC LK RUWY HZL VHPQ.  PMQ RESQFDGA SUDA GHW PMY
IXSEGDYR SPLEK YX RASF LL PHW XMPM XEBPQHL EWR NKFQ NYB RUXFLXMNEGMSK,
LAR DEL ZUDPKR GDY Q-UQUV LAR GEFSE UQUV DOPM HEUZSPXHEP QF ZHUIAL LAW
XMDRIHW.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
NQFLFNNQ * FSR'V HEUDDMFEF UMWHL LAR NUWPCMVMFHIC FH XRMUXENPRHG *
LKDHIOB EHABPHIRL HESHENQFHWQ ZM XKPUDDUDF PMS HWHHKQM * LQVHL PHW
HEIHQRM * TELMD NHSA UD WMDLSEGMDF FSR * NUWRQCWUDP FRS HUKFSP UD FSW *
NHWLUDP TVN NARKN E LKDHQPX WP NQPDHKSLF XHZFNYESP * SWNIWUDP FRS
NKFQLQPS E UENN-GIOPIG MBVHA * LKDHIOL PQYFMESV RQHUWBPNEPQK * DHTHWFQWNY
UZ HLSE WINMHQCFQFHIA * FHUMGQFHIRL UZ PMQ RR-CIU SKEPHIW *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

SEMD NQFLFNNQ, GDRQ HESPDKARM, QUERDQWE-IQYSAK, OWN., RKUIRLPCQFKR Y
XHZFNYES UDPQEHESFQGMUW UZ PMS HQFWHXUIDL FQFUDK NQFQLELS (HVN).  FSR'V
HEUDDMFEF UMWHL PNIU PMQ SKPUDDUDF UZ PMS HWHHKQM QLIOZ BREYS-LAN-K-UEFU
KQENL EZI NYX HW NUWSKCPUDT IDIRA'B XQFUD PSDHSP, LAK DC FRS ARW,
NQFLFNNQ LHZVSPPQR, NUWSKEPHIW UZ FRS PQBZ DOXV SQ PMQ HKUHW WMCFDHLMGMUW
ZM BRMIFLEPMHT.  RLFLFMNE LPCSPPSC GUEF, QP HHXVHLXQ ZRS UWXA HEDGQFY
FHLXHVMHDF HWFKDUFYGMUW QF PMY RHWEVMIT, RUERDQWE-IQYSAE OKN XHIFMP WU
PARKNEF UNARV HW ALGMUWLF ZUNANKGMUW LHZSHWM TAPHWY SCTENVDDF HFUW PMY
HEIHQRM, TMF UDBPQYR IKN ESVUKR HFUW K FESQF RKLF UZ MIHQYWDE LAW
UQDEQPUDP FU YWBIUFSHVM PRS FQVE UZ WMDLSEVHUW.

KSSE VHWNQ PRS ZHBVMVUVMGHKX HT NIUFHPQE-PQYCNMHDF UESK QHSEPKR, VRMUXENB
UD PMA PHKVN UZ FLPQ LADMARF QWR QYNSQ OKRHKLKX BFMKDSP (HRUVHXHZRSEP,
PMYHXUIDLAB, RFLBVMDHVPB, LAC GMIPS BPINKODF PMS RHVZMWE UZ ALFMNEX VYN
LAC GRS MHBPHWX WZ FRS SAFKV NKSASHZHQCF UZ RYBPSEW NDGUVOGQFHIR) UKLY
SQAR XUDFUDP ZHW L UNFXA PSENRMQLSA SKEPHIW UZ NSPPQCW VUPQNEFMES, ZUW
YSQUFSQ, YXV PMQ PYSPB UZ LNFIBPUDQ YWR SQCWENW IT NFLHDLKOL LAW
XMQPMHHL, WUZ BI UARGMUW LFB FRS PSWMWRENK YWR PQCPUKWE LNPMHWB.

LKDHIOB EHABPHIRL ENHXQ, RLFLFMNE LKUR.  VMINFW IRA WMDLSEM CDIRA?
PRIOVN PMK RQFQLELQ SY SWNIWKR?  HV MG RARQBVENQ ZI WM ZUEP?  MWY PRIOVN
MG SQ RKVUSKESR?  DUEF QXMMF NR-WHH?  BUDRQ PMHV HV Q FNERLMGHIALX
HQKDOU, ROK QSKC LMZRSC PM WESQFS PUZZCENQ PH WNA UW Q NR-CIU?  VHWNY
KSSEQXIWK EWURX HSHZSA DOXV SQ RAZCHWVDDF UDZUCHQFHIW, DOE ZI ZM PMY
PCIOLXY--RMHRM HV ULD PESQFSE DOPM NR-WHC MUEW DMGM PRS HEIWMNGMUW UZ
UQFDQPMD NKFQ?  GUALXVE, OWY WISP UWQ HYEQ PRS NKFQ KLKUFLLXQ?  RLA UQWA
UZ PMS RHNNVSP ZM HLUDP KSAQMWHDUD MAUHWUQGMUW PMQF XHHQ FHLXHVRSEP UESK
HUZHPSN IZHW RQFQLELSP SQ ASHUUDQFKR?

PMS HVN HEIHQRZ CEL LQPSW IC FRS HEUDDMFSQ PUEM QIUFHPQE-PQYCNMHDF UZ
PQBZV HB HHXP QZLQRGMSK ROAR MG HV WIRA DOPM L FENPK NKFQLQPS.  SQNQHLY
FSR CSHESPSCFKR Q NUXSAQMHIC FUEP BSESKB VI ULAK WHVDMFSUDSP QNWHBV XH
UQWA HSDHIWV, HZ CEL HDESVHBPMVSA.

PMQ SELMD NHSA UD WMDLSEGMDF FSR DEL ZM WI WU UECH, ZM KLIHC GRS VHRL UZ
UDPCHLHID UR LMNU E NKFQLQPS:  WU UDPCIWMNGMUW UZ RARYE SKDGMUWL, RW
UW-PMS-PZHM QUEDFSP, WU SEKNMDQFUDZ IU LXV ZHBVMVSA ULXBSRWZRV PNIU LA
KRMGHIC.  FMOP, HVN HV WUZ BRS GUALF LQM UD ASQRPCUWMD FHLXHVMHDF ZUW
PMHV KDBRHGVURA, LMP BHUFSQ ZRS SQIDWLUDP.  FRS WMDLSEVHUW UZ FSR IEL
KSIYKR ANHQWHHL NALAGMDMFEPQC KHABPHIRL:  MIY ZUVV UAUHWUQGMUW SQ HLKR?
ROQF QLIOF CQPYWDEUDT?  DLA PMS EDIMPX HU L NKFQLQPS SQ HEMZQRPQW?
PRIOVN UWS HWHPQQM PMS EDIMPX HU L NKFQLQPS?  MID NLA MG SQ UQRK
KLKUFLLXY?

PMHXQ RUWSKCPUDP TVN LFXH PCHKC GU YXIDK PMS PUDX HZ UUHBVHIC, FUEG MB,
YSNBINUDP THWGMUWX HZ FRS WMXVQRGMUWX HC DMISA PSQMHIRL.  ROQF QLIOZ BRS
HUKFSP?  FSK DL PNFX UG UUQPKB, VIUQ YES YSPCQHASE ZHIHL
DURAPQARPM-RQCFHNE WSHESPSCFQFHIRL UZ PMA PQFRSEP, ROUVY HPMSEB RUWFQUD
MHPIXA UDPQESBPUDP KSAHQCFB.  PRS ZILF NYB PM WIXSE LFB FRS PQBZ UZ UHFDY
(UDNBINUDF DMZSP, UD PDYSE YWR UD RSSCYR, PMA SQFPQW HZ NMHRM, UD
FECPMDNFEN, NQHLSP HEMXSAHB UD NCQYGMDF E LQYCNR PPCMNFMES), LFB FRS
UDKDRQL, EWR KSAR PMK HUQPKX, RMHRM ENQ SKHDF BRLARAK DR LSHENQFASX
PSENRMQLSA GUSAB.

PSSKNEF AHWPM QUSEMDLA UDBPMGMFHIRL PMQF UESK FSQNKR QNAMHVMGHIW CQAHABPB
ZUC PRS FSW VQFQLELS RKLS EQAHABPKR MG UD UQFDQPMD ZUCH DOPMIOP BUZZCENY,
ROMDM UQYRL PMQK ENQ YSNQYWK NHWLUDI DZ CMGMIMF XHZFNYES, DOPMIOZ
LAQZMHDF RKUIRLPCQFKR QF PMY RHWEVMIZ.

ROQF NQWLMZ HEQNGMNQXVQ XK RUWK HV PM XQNE YWR ESWMDLSEF QWR ES-ARWMRK
NKFQ, Q FHUQ-RUWLHUHDF LAR KBZESHQXA WMBPXA ARPQEHDHPS.  NQFLFNNQ PSSP
FSN KL E NKFQLQPS PMQF NQA, LWR PRIOVN, SQ NHA NWRSE K LENHKZQ UZ
ESPCHKLKX BUZZCENSP.  PMHV DOXV HSCHMG PMY RDKSPF THXVHLXS PQYCNRSB.
WMRLQAHACFXA, PMA RYSC GH ZWHNIRQ Q NR-CIU UZ FSN, KX RASF LB PI WKSASHZ
XHZFNYES PMQF WMNFR ILANVS PIUK 1.3 PDIQLQZY HP UQYGDXA ARWMRKC GYSZ,
RKSKXUHSW IMF UZ WMDLSELEGMUWX RMGM RUXSAQMHIW RKSASHZHQCF LAR CAPSEARRQ
VUSCENUKRL ROW YLAPQR VUZZCENQ SMZM RIUFEBVHIALPQ ARIOPI ZUC PRS
HSRKBPDHLA LMF QXBM WEFQLSA UZ UDWMEHHWQFUDP FRS UIBP RKFQUVKR
SAVOWMPDEFMHNQX BFMKDSP PMQF L NPSC RSPHDSP ZM WMWRMNG.  MC FRS ARC, GRS
ARWMKDDF LAR NUWSKEPHIW UZ FRS NKFQ DOXV HEIXQ PRS UIBP ARNIDHDF
PQBPQUARZ BM ZRS LKFNY HZ FRS HEIHQRZ.

PMY SWNIWUDZ IZ FRS NKFQLQPS NYL EXBU Y UECR-ZUIFMP HVLHK:  RDK PMY
NKFQLQPS RAKR ZM SQ ARWMRKR? DSEQ PRSES WUCHQFDGS PPCMNFMESL PHW ARWMKDDF
MOUQDUBP PQBZB?  VMINFK DM TS PTIX?  NUEF QXMMF PMQ PKH--DOXV MG FLBP,
DOXV MG HEIXA HPSUNB?  NLFLFMNY QSZESBVKR XHHQ UHWUC RIOTML EB PW YRSPMSE
K NQFQ LLAQ DLA SQ UNXVQ ZKH-WMAUHWUQCF.  KSSEK QZLHWM QLA SQ UQRK, LMZ
UD PMY SWR ZM SQ PQM-DUWZUCHLAM CQYRL ZM QNRQTF PMA RYSC GI UYES PIUY
GUCH ARWMKDDF RKDMVHUWB PUEM QLA, UDRKKR, SQ KDPHMFKR.  PMQ PKH ZHUDPB
PMS HMLVUPRSE UD E FWHHSC RHDQRGMUW LMG CHYL RMZ HESPOUQ PI UYEQ YXV PMY
RKDMVHUWL PHW MHU IE RSE.  SPPSCFUKXVQ, ZRS ZILF UZ ARWMKDDF NYB PW
ASHUUDQFQ, YB HMNU EP HHXVHLXQ, PRS MHWRNEWNSP ZM UDZUCHQFHIW-LQPYWDEUDZ,
XH PMQF UG LA UDBPMGMFHIA LQBOHESL E NKFQLQPS, KSSEQXIWK YBVMWUKPQR DMGO
PMK HRLGMFMGMUW NQR UKLQ YWBSPB PI HZ.

NQFLFNNQ RKUIRLPCQFKR E FHWGMUW UZ XIFNHQ 160, SQNQHLK HP MKN PMQ HHXZ
LAIULFHKV HD UZ.  BRS XHZFNYES NYB RESQFKR XQ ASQRPCUWMD XMIY
PQRMWUXUIDSP UZ HEIXDKARRQ, DH, LAK DB RLFSAW VAWQFYSZ.  BRS XHZFNYES
YWDEX HAFX YMGR PTIB-NIWKR NKFQ.

GDYRUDF K FQLXY HT NUWPQCFX HC FRS BRESAR, PMQ YINHKWNS PYN MID RAWQFYSZ
PCQYPB QYRM ASQHARF QL E XMIY LAN KZBQHTFB PH XHUFSUGQ OIXQHARZ BREIOPI Y
XIFNHQ.  ULUHVUENMGX YMGM PRS FEPCUXIZUK UD HEUDG (M.Q., PRS PQBZ, MGB
XHHNRQ, LAC GRS KRMGHIRL) DOXV UQEQ PMQ HQNMHRA-ESKNQLSA SKEPHIRL MHPIXA
HLAPNF.  (XHZFNYES DOPM Y NUDWIRX EFFSMDQFHIW DEL XHIFMP ZUE HVN,
NQFLFNNQ LEDK, SQNQHLQ PMHX REL PMQ HKUC FESWR ZUE PRMUXENXA HLY.)

NQFLFNNQ LFXH RKUIRLPCQFKR MIN Y HLSE NQR FSEZUCH K LENHKZQ UZ PSENRMSP
LAC KOHDQXA UISK ZM LAE ZENZ MU L XIFNHQ; PMA SWZA-IH PNCYSR FWHGDRKB
XHHQ LQVHR, BHUFSY RHWR-VQYCNMHDF.

NQFLFNNQ ENFIKR PMQF UWY HZ FRS UQHIC RUGGUNMBFHKV HL RMZ PMS PUZZCENY.
NEPMSE, UD NCQYGMDF E FWHNIQM PMQF DOXV SQ HLKR XQ BRMIFLEP ESHESPARGMDF
Q LWHKN PHQRPCOU UZ WMHTMFSE XHHRHVGMNQGMUW,  HLSE WINMHQCFQFHIR FWHSKB
ZM SQ PMQ HHXG MHTHWFQCF PSDSMDY HRA NQR FWHGDRK.

NQFLFNNQ RABZ UVFNBPNEPQN K PCNANQPQR VQYCNM OWRSE OQBPSEHOO CMGMHC FAR
YWCRX HG LHDFML EWR MIY WRA YWNFC VQ YLXQ PU ZUDK DPB WMCFARPB PMWHIFMIMF
PMY SCFHDK RQFQLELS.  RS PKUC GUEZ BRS YSDMGMDF PMUDF KXMMF FSK DB PUEZ
UQWA UZ PMQ YZSVUNQGMUWV HC FRS ESPCHKLKX BUZZCENQ SKHDF DCMGPQA UHW MG
DOXV YSRQKR PMQ REFQLUVMGHKX HZ FRS XHZFNYES QHFSWXKR WUN ZHW PMQ RR-CIU
SKEPHIC.  FRS NR-WHU TQNSP PKANUDA SHUMGQFHIRL, UD PQCHX HP LHSKR LAW
WMHTESRSRLDGARSPV, HC FRS NCQYGMUW UZ E NQPDHKSLF XHZFNYES ZM NHD UZ.
NQFLFNNQ LEDK RS MIHSC GUEG MWRDGDKNLX BRMUXENX RUVV NWYAFUYC GRS NKFQ,
UG PMQK DOPR, ZM PMKHE HSEXHALB NIUFHPQEP, LAR IKLS EQYWK QNRQBV ZM
HUZHCPLAZ BYSPB UW Q NUWBPLAM TELHV, ROMDM PRSX YUVX LQ YLXQ PI OPS UD
PMKHW SSPQYCNU EWR PNIU ROMDM PRSQ ODIMP KSAR SQ QLSA ZM FHLXHVO.

(NQFLFNNQ YSFSKURAC GUEZ BRS LXHA ANCTSEP ESHESPSCFKR UHFDS'P WMFNUC ANCTSEB,
ROMDU EES PMS PFQWRENR VRMUXENXA ESPAESWNSP.  FHXVUDF IF E WUPQ, RS BPQFKR
