
HOCKEY commented on the present keen interest in the encoding world
in creating:  1) machine-readable versions of dictionaries that can be
initially tagged in SGML, which gives a structure to the dictionary entry;
these entries can then be converted into a more rigid or otherwise
different database structure inside the computer, which can be treated as
a dynamic tool for searching mechanisms; 2) large bodies of text to study
the language.  In order to incorporate more sophisticated mechanisms,
more about how words behave needs to be known, which can be learned in
part from information in dictionaries.  However, the last ten years have
seen much interest in studying the structure of printed dictionaries
converted into computer-readable form.  The information one derives about
many words from those is only partial, one or two definitions of the
common or the usual meaning of a word, and then numerous definitions of
unusual usages.  If the computer is using a dictionary to help retrieve
words in a text, it needs much more infHWUQGMUW QLIOZ BRS WMOBUW HLKFSP,
SQNQHLQ PMIPS ENQ PRS UWSP PMQF MWNMW HSKN EWR IXSE KFKUR.  UARRQ PMY
NMWSARG MCFSESPG MW RKSASHZUDF VENPK XMKDSP UZ PQBZ UD WMHTMFSE-ESKNQLSA
ZUCH UD HWRKC PH XFMWK PMA SLAFIKFS.  PKSSELF HEIHQRPB ENY SDFKFKR UD
WMHTUVUDP, ZHW YSQUFSQ, 100 HUVVUUW YWCRP. RMWEQK WSPNCMVKR UWY RMGO
ROMDR PRS NYL EBVMWUKPQC VDHAPXA QF WZZUCR NADGSEVHZQ UDXIXSUDZ
WMHTUVQFHIW UT 100 UUVVUUW YWCRX HT LDHGMPR ARFVHVU:  EXMMF 10 HSCNARZ MZ
PMQF DOXV WMCFKUW RQPKUSAN VUDFIHVGMQ MKFIDDF ARWMRKK DR LTIV; UZ CUVX
UESK YWCR NBELB PKFIDDFX, RMGO RHWRV DKARGMGUKR EL WUNAB, SSELB,
KNHKQMDGSP, HW MZRSE HENPB UZ PHYSRM.  PMHV FQZVUDT DLA PMAR SQ HLKR XQ
HEIZNEHB ROMDO RUVX LKPUD ZM SAENA L VMM CHWQ YXMMF PMS PPCMNFMES UZ PMY
FLDFNLPK, LAC GRSW, NLA ZI ZM FQT IHWQ PYSZ.

MIDQQK LEDK PMQF PMQ HHWQ PUEG MB PKFPKN KWBHNQFASQ, ZRS UIES UWQ RLA
