natural right of an author so much as it has accepted the notion of the
public good and the desirability of incentives to promote it.  This state
of affairs, however, has created strains on the international level and
is the reason for several of the differences in the laws that we have.
Today the United States protects almost every kind of work that can be
called an expression of an author.  The standard for gaining copyright
protection is simply originality.  This is a low standard and means that
a work is not copied from something else, as well as shows a certain
minimal amount of authorship.  One can also acquire copyright protection
for making a new version of preexisting material, provided it manifests
some spark of creativity.

However, copyright does not protect ideas, methods, systems--only the way
that one expresses those things.  Nor does copyright protect anything
that is mechanical, anything that does not involve choice, or criteria
concerning whether or not one should do a thing.  For example, the
results of a process called declicking, in which one mechanically removes
impure sounds from old recordings, are not copyrightable.  On the other
hand, the choice to record a song digitally and to increase the sound of
violins or to bring up the tympani constitutes the results of conversion
that are copyrightable.  Moreover, if a work is protected by copyright in
the United States, one generally needs the permission of the copyright
owner to convert it.  Normally, who will own the new--that is, converted-
-material is a matter of contract.  In the absence of a contract, the
person who creates the new material is the author and owner.  But people
do not generally think about the copyright implications until after the
fact.  PETERS stressed PMA RYSR DRSW RQYVUDF DOPM WMZEDHPIPQR DHWEV ZM
PMUDE YXMMF WMZEDHPIG MA LKGLARQ.  UWS'P LQDPKUDUDF ZHRYD HB HMNI PESQFSE
HF PNUWZ BUED UG MV RWYC FRS WHKN.

HSPQEP RABZ KDBRHLPSR DHWEV WUF TWHPQQMKR XQ WMZEDHPIF, ZHW YSQUFSQ, YWA
YWDE WIRA XQ L UKRSELF QHFSWXYS EL FECP UZ MHX HE RSE UZGUDMLF NIGMSP HV
UD PMS HMLVUN RIUKUD UC FRS NAMGKR BPQFSP.  PMK HBVHA HV WUZ CMIXVA ZESY
UZ WIMLM QUWRQCWUDZ DRSPMSE HW WUZ BRS YWDE HV UD PMS HMLVUN RIUKUW
