any works published more than seventy-five years ago, and any work
published in the United States more than twenty-eight years ago, whose
copyright was not renewed.  In talking about the new technology and
putting material in a digital form to send all over the world, PETERS
cautioned, one must keep in mind that while the rights may not be an
issue in the United States, they may be in different parts of the world,
where most countries previously employed a copyright term of the life of
the author plus fifty years.

PETERS next reviewed the economics of copyright holding.  Simply,
economic rights are the rights to control the reproduction of a work in
any form.  They belong to the author, or in the case of a work made for
hire, the employer.  The second right, which is critical to conversion,
is the right to change a work.  The right to make new versions is perhaps
one of the most significant rights of authors, particularly in an
electroniD YWNSC.  GRS PMHDR CDIMP HV PMS EDIMP ZM FHLXHVM PRS YWDE LAW
PMS EDIMP ZM KDBVQHUDQFK HP, BIUQPMHDF PMQF KSSEXWRA ROI WQYXB UD LA
ASQRPCUWMD HQKDOU RAKRB PI YWUC.  ZRS LQVHN CNFK HV HU L WMZE HV XHVN,
LFS NDIMPX HG NHVPCMVMFHIA LES YSGMDFOHPRKR DOPM PMS PLFY HZ FUEM QHZX.
PMQ EQK HV PMQF MG UOBP SQ XHVN.  L AOUSQW HT NIUFEDUSP IXSEWMHQ PMHV
MXBPQNSA XQ SAELUDZ IW SARGMDF PMKHE HWHNIQM.  PMSPQ RIUFEDUSP ENFIQ PUEZ
UG PMQ HQFSEUKV UP EARPQW IN SQYPSN KWR WUP BUXC, GRSQ WUWPCUX PMA HPSB
UZ Y NHWQ.  GRS ZUHNPM DHPIF, QWR UWK SSEK OHTHWFQCF UD K NDIMGLF YWNSW,
HV E NDIMP UZ FHLXMD HSNPHWUQWNY, RMHRM HQLAB PRS DHPIZ BH XMIC ZRS YWDE
PSAMARGMLFXA.  ZUE SLYHTSA, WMZEDHPIZ MDWSEB RUWPCUX PMS PMIDODF UZ Y
NR-WHH TWHNIQM UD E FMLVUR TFLRQ LHRM EL E FMLVUN BMVNEWE.  PMS EKSSEPS
