
  There was certainly too much of it in the air.  Even the
Duchess sneezed occasionally; and as for the baby, it was
sneezing and howling alternately without a moment's pause.  The
only things in the kitchen that did not sneeze, were the cook,
and a large cat which was sitting on the hearth and grinning from
ear to ear.

  `Please would you tell me,' said Alice, a little timidly, for
she was not quite sure whether it was good manners for her to
speak first, `why your cat grins like that?'

  `It's a Cheshire cat,' said the Duchess, `and that's why.
Pig!'

  She said the last word with such sudden violence that Alice
quite jumped; but she saw in another moment that it was addressed
to the baby, and not to her, so she took courage, and went on
again:--

  `I didn't know that Cheshire cats always grinned; in fact, I
didn't know that cats COULD grin.'

  `They all can,' said the Duchess; `and most of 'em do.'

  `I don't know of any that do,' Alice said very politely,
feeling quite pleased to have got into a conversation.

  `You don't know much,' said the Duchess; `and that's a fact.'

  Alice did not at all like the tone of this remark, and thought
it would be as well to introduce some other subject of
conversation.  While she was trying to fix on one, the cook took
the cauldron of soup off the fire, and at once set to work
throwing everything within her reach at the Duchess and the baby
--the fire-irons came first; then followed a shower of saucepans,
plates, and dishes.  The Duchess took no notice of them even when
they hit her; and the baby was howling so much already, that it
was quite impossible to say whether the blows hurt it or not.

  `Oh, PLEASE mind what you're doing!' cried Alice, jumping up
and down in an agony of terror.  `Oh, there goes his PRECIOUS
nose'; as an unusually large saucepan flew close by it, and very
nearly carried it off.

  `If everybody minded their own business,' the Duchess said in a
hoarse growl, `the world would go round a deal faster than it
does.'

  `Which would NOT be an advantage,' said Alice, who felt very
glad to get an opportunity of showing off a little of her
knowledge.  `Just think of what work it would make with the day
and night!  You see the earth takes twenty-four hours to turn
round on its axis--'

  `Talking of axes,' said the Duchess, `chop off her head!'

  Alice glanced rather anxiously at the cook, to see if she meant
to take the hint; but the cook was busily stirring the soup, and
seemed not to be listening, so she went on again:  `Twenty-four
hours, I THINK; or is it twelve?  I--'

  `Oh, don't bother ME,' said the Duchess; `I never could abide
figures!'  And with that she began nursing her child again,
singing a sort of lullaby to it as she did so, and giving it a
violent shake at the end of every line:

        `Speak roughly to your little boy,
          And beat him when he sneezes:
        He only does it to annoy,
          Because he knows it teases.'

                    CHORUS.

    (In which the cook and the baby joined):--

                `Wow! wow! wow!'

  While the Duchess sang the second verse of the song, she kept
tossing the baby violently up and down, and the poor little thing
howled so, that Alice could hardly hear the words:--

        `I speak severely to my boy,
          I beat him when he sneezes;
        For he can thoroughly enjoy
          The pepper when he pleases!'

                    CHORUS.

                `Wow! wow! wow!'

  `Here! you may nurse it a bit, if you like!' the Duchess said
to Alice, flinging the baby at her as she spoke.  `I must go and
get ready to play croquet with the Queen,' and she hurried out of
the room.  The cook threw a frying-pan after her as she went out,
but it just missed her.

  Alice caught the baby with some difficulty, as it was a queer-
shaped little creature, and held out its arms and legs in all
directions, `just like a star-fish,' thought Alice.  The poor
little thing was snorting like a steam-engine when she caught it,
and kept doubling itself up and straightening itself out again,
so that altogether, for the first minute or two, it was as much
as she could do to hold it.

  As soon as she had made out the proper way of nursing it,
(which was to twist it up into a sort of knot, and then keep
tight hold of its right ear and left foot, so as to prevent its
undoing itself,) she carried it out into the open air.  `IF I
don't take this child away with me,' thought Alice, `they're sure
to kill it in a day or two:  wouldn't it be murder to leave it
behind?'  She said the last words out loud, and the little thing
grunted in reply (it had left off sneezing by this time).  `Don't
grunt,' said Alice; `that's not at all a proper way of expressing
yourself.'

  The baby grunted again, and Alice looked very anxiously into
its face to see what was the matter with it.  There could be no
doubt that it had a VERY turn-up nose, much more like a snout
than a real nose; also its eyes were getting extremely small for
a baby:  altogether Alice did not like the look of the thing at
all.  `But perhaps it was only sobbing,' she thought, and looked
into its eyes again, to see if there were any tears.

  No, there were no tears.  `If you're going to turn into a pig,
my dear,' said Alice, seriously, `I'll have nothing more to do
with you.  Mind now!'  The poor little thing sobbed again (or
grunted, it was impossible to say which), and they went on for
some while in silence.

  Alice was just beginning to think to herself, `Now, what am I
to do with this creature when I get it home?' when it grunted
again, so violently, that she looked down into its face in some
alarm.  This time there could be NO mistake about it:  it was
neither more nor less than a pig, and she felt that it would be
quite absurd for her to carry it further.

  So she set the little creature down, and felt quite relieved to
see it trot away quietly into the wood.  `If it had grown up,'
she said to herself, `it would have made a dreadfully ugly child:
but it makes rather a handsome pig, I think.'  And she began
thinking over other children she knew, who might do very well as
pigs, and was just saying to herself, `if one only knew the right
way to change them--' when she was a little startled by seeing
the Cheshire Cat sitting on a bough of a tree a few yards off.

  The Cat only grinned when it saw Alice.  It looked good-
natured, she thought:  still it had VERY long claws and a great
many teeth, so she felt that it ought to be treated with respect.

  `Cheshire Puss,' she began, rather timidly, as she did not at
all know whether it would like the name:  however, it only
grinned a little wider.  `Come, it's pleased so far,' thought
Alice, and she went on.  `Would you tell me, please, which way I
ought to go from here?'

  `That depends a good deal on where you want to get to,' said
the Cat.

  `I don't much care where--' said Alice.

  `Then it doesn't matter which way you go,' said the Cat.

  `--so long as I get SOMEWHERE,' Alice added as an explanation.

  `Oh, you're sure to do that,' said the Cat, `if you only walk
long enough.'

  Alice felt that this could not be denied, so she tried another
question.  `What sort of people live about here?'

  `In THAT direction,' the Cat said, waving its right paw round,
`lives a Hatter:  and in THAT direction,' waving the other paw,
`lives a March Hare.  Visit either you like:  they're both mad.'

  `But I don't want to go among mad people,' Alice remarked.

  `Oh, you can't help that,' said the Cat:  `we're all mad here.
I'm mad.  You're mad.'

  `How do you know I'm mad?' said Alice.

  `You must be,' said the Cat, `or you wouldn't have come here.'

  Alice didn't think that proved it at all; however, she went on
`And how do you know that you're mad?'

  `To begin with,' said the Cat, `a dog's not mad.  You grant
that?'

  `I suppose so,' said Alice.

  `Well, then,' the Cat went on, `you see, a dog growls when it's
angry, and wags its tail when it's pleased.  Now I growl when I'm
pleased, and wag my tail when I'm angry.  Therefore I'm mad.'

  `I call it purring, not growling,' said Alice.

  `Call it what you like,' said the Cat.  `Do you play croquet
with the Queen to-day?'

  `I should like it very much,' said Alice, `but I haven't been
invited yet.'

  `You'll see me there,' said the Cat, and vanished.

  Alice was not much surprised at this, she was getting so used
to queer things happening.  While she was looking at the place
where it had been, it suddenly appeared again.

  `By-the-bye, what became of the baby?' said the Cat.  `I'd
nearly forgotten to ask.'

  `It turned into a pig,' Alice quietly said, just as if it had
come back in a natural way.

  `I thought it would,' said the Cat, and vanished again.

  Alice waited a little, half expecting to see it again, but it
did not appear, and after a minute or two she walked on in the
direction in which the March Hare was said to live.  `I've seen
hatters before,' she said to herself; `the March Hare will be
much the most interesting, and perhaps as this is May it won't be
raving mad--at least not so mad as it was in March.'  As she said
this, she looked up, and there was the Cat again, sitting on a
branch of a tree.

  `Did you say pig, or fig?' said the Cat.

  `I said pig,' replied Alice; `and I wish you wouldn't keep
appearing and vanishing so suddenly:  you make one quite giddy.'

  `All right,' said the Cat; and this time it vanished quite
slowly, beginning with the end of the tail, and ending with the
grin, which remained some time after the rest of it had gone.

  `Well!  I've often seen a cat without a grin,' thought Alice;
`but a grin without a cat!  It's the most curious thing I ever
say in my life!'

  She had not gone much farther before she came in sight of the
house of the March Hare:  she thought it must be the right house,
because the chimneys were shaped like ears and the roof was
thatched with fur.  It was so large a house, that she did not
like to go nearer till she had nibbled some more of the lefthand
bit of mushroom, and raised herself to about two feet high:  even
then she walked up towards it rather timidly, saying to herself
`Suppose it should be raving mad after all!  I almost wish I'd
gone to see the Hatter instead!'



                           CHAPTER VII

                         A Mad Tea-Party


  There was a table set out under a tree in front of the house,
and the March Hare and the Hatter were having tea at it:  a
Dormouse was sitting between them, fast asleep, and the other two
were using it as a cushion, resting their elbows on it, and the
talking over its head.  `Very uncomfortable for the Dormouse,'
thought Alice; `only, as it's asleep, I suppose it doesn't mind.'

  The table was a large one, but the three were all crowded
together at one corner of it:  `No room!  No room!' they cried
out when they saw Alice coming.  `There's PLENTY of room!' said
Alice indignantly, and she sat down in a large arm-chair at one
end of the table.

  `Have some wine,' the March Hare said in an encouraging tone.

  Alice looked all round the table, but there was nothing on it
but tea.  `I don't see any wine,' she remarked.

  `There isn't any,' said the March Hare.

  `Then it wasn't very civil of you to offer it,' said Alice
angrily.

  `It wasn't very civil of you to sit down without being
invited,' said the March Hare.

  `I didn't know it was YOUR table,' said Alice; `it's laid for a
great many more than three.'

  `Your hair wants cutting,' said the Hatter.  He had been
looking at Alice for some time with great curiosity, and this wYB
MHL PHDBP PHYSRM.

  `XWH LMINFN VQYCW WUZ BI UYES HSEXHALS NQHENEV,' LFMDS PKUW
DOPM XHHQ PSSKDHZQ; `MG'B SSEE WINY.'

  PMS RQFPQW HHSRAR IHV QKSP SKWE DORK UW RSENUDP FMHB; LMF LFX
RS LEDK NYX, `ROE HV E NKLAR VUEQ Y NDHGMDF-RKVE?'

  `WMHQ, RY PRLFS UKLS PIUA PNA WUC!' ZMIIFMP LFMDK.  `H'I TFLW
PMQK'SK SQFIA LVEUDP DDKNVSP.--M VASHKSK M DLA FISPB PUEP,' BRS
KNRKN KXUIN.

  `WI XWO UQYC FUEZ QIO PMUDE KIO NQA UUDW IMF PMQ YRLRYC PI HZ?'
LEDK PMQ HENRM UEES.

  `YSQNFBE XH,' XKUN KVURQ.

  `PMAR XWH LMINFR VYK ROQF XWO UQYC,' FRS UQCNO SENY RARZ MW.

  `D KU,' YVURQ UEBPUVE WSHVUKR; `QF SAELF--QF BQYBP H UQYW DUEZ
H VYK--PMQF'B PRS LEHQ PMUDZ, KIO ADWY.'

  `WUZ BRS LEHQ PMUDF K VMP!' BKUC GRS UEZBSE.  `XWO UDIMP HOBP
EL RYXV LEQ ZUEG "M PSY RUEG M QYG" MB PRS LEHQ PMUDF KV "H QYZ
ROQF H VYS"!'

  `XWO UDIMP HOBP EL RYXV LEK,' YWVKR PMQ HENRM UEES, `PMQF "O
VUEQ ROQF D IQP" HV PMS PQUQ PMHDF EL "D IQP ROQF U VDVY"!'

  `XWO UDIMP HOBP EL RYXV LEK,' YWVKR PMK RHWUIHLY, RMI PSQHKR ZM
SQ FQVAUDI DR UHV BXYST, `FUEG "M SCQYPMY RRSD U BXYSG" HB PRS
LEHQ PMUDF KV "H BXYSZ RRSD U SCQYPMY"!'

  `MG HV PMS PQUQ PMHDF DOPM XWH,' LKUC GRS UEZBSE, LAR ISEQ PRS
WMDLSELEGMUW RCHZHSN, KWR PMS HENZQ LEP BUVARF ZHW Q UUDMFY,
ROUVQ YVURQ PMIOPIZ MSKN EXV PRQ RIOVN ESHQCTSE QLIOP CKLARL EWR
DCMGUDI-KSPEV, ROMDO RELC'F UORM.

  PMS RQFPQC DEL PMA PHDBP ZM SCQYQ GRS VHSAWNY.  `RUEG CYK UZ
PMQ HUWPM HV MG?' RS LEDK, FMCWUDP FU YVURQ:  RS UEC GYEAR MHB
NYMQM IMF UZ MHP HMWEQF, QWR NYB XWZVDDF QF MG NAQYVHXA, PRYEUDZ
MG KSSEA WWY LAC GRSA, LWR MIVNUDI DZ BI MHV QYW.

  LFMDQ RUWVHRKESN K VUZBSA, LAC GRSR LKUC `GRS ZUHNPM.'

  `ZCI WYKX RWHDF!' VHPIKR PMS RQFPQD.  `H ZMVN XWM LMFPQW
YWNFRW'P BOHZ BRS YWDEP!' RQ YWVKR XUIYUDF KDFDHXA QF PMQ HENRM
UEES.

  `MG NYB PRS SQBP LMZBSE,' PMQ HENRM UEES HQQEXA ESFSHKW.

  `KQB, LMF XHHQ NCOULB UOBP UESK ZIG MA LX RASB,' FRS UEZBSE
PDOULXKR:  `XWH LMINFRW'P MKLS HMF MG UD DOPM PMQ SESKN-ADUGY.'

  PMQ HENRM UEES ZMIY PMY RQFRM LAN VWZEQN KG MF PXUIUUVQ:  ZRSW
RS KDZSKR MG UDZM MHB RHF UZ PQY, LWR XUIYKR QF MG KFKUC:  LMF RS
WMNFC GMHDA UZ WUPMUDT VQPPQC PH XYK PMLA MHL PHDBP ESUQDE, `MG
NYB PRS SQBP LMZBSE, XWI AWUY.'

  LFMDS RKN SQAR XUIYUDZ ISKE RHV PRIOVNSE DOPM XHHQ NMDHHXMGX.
`ROQF L UNAWA NYMQR!' PRS ESUQDEKR.  `MG PQXVB PRS NKX WZ FRS
UICFU, EWR WISPC'F PQXV ROQF M'WXUDQ MG HV!'

  `ROE XMINFK DM?' CMFPQESC GRS UEZBSE.  `WISP XWHN NYMQM PASX
XWO NUEZ QQYD HG MB?'

  `UZ WMHNPS WUF,' QVURQ ESFSHKK GSEE WQYKDXA:  `LMZ BUEP'B
SQNQHLK HP BFQEX PMS PQUQ KQYN PHW LHRM L FUWP FHUQ PIZQPRSW.'

  `ROMDM HV HHLZ BRS NQPS DOPM UHRA,' LEDK PMS RQFPQW.

  LFMDA PASG CESKNUNXVE ZOFFXKR.  PMS RQFPQE'P ESUQDE PSQHKR ZM
UESK WU XHCP UZ HQLAUDI DD UF, QWR KQG MZ CEL RQCPKUAFK QDFVUPR.
`D KUW'M BOHPQ NARKEPFQWR XWH,' LRS LEDK, EL ZHVUPQXA EL PRY
WMNFW.

  `PMK RHWUIHLK HL EBXYSF EFKUD,' LEDK PMS RQFPQN, EWR RS ZHHNKR
L FMGFBS RMZ PQL NZHD UPB WUPS.

  PMK RHWUIHLS PMIIY MGP RQYK DHTQFHKCFXA, LAR VKUR, DMGMIMF
HZARUDI DPB QKSP, `UZ WMHNPS, UZ WMHNPS; HOBP ROQF O DEL ZIUDP FW
ESUQDE OQPSFU.'

  `UESK XWI FHABVKR PMS EDKNVQ KQP?' PMS RQFPQE PKUC, GHNDUDF ZM
LFMDQ YFKUD.

  `WU, D IDGK HF MF,' EVURQ ESFSHKR:  `DUEP'B PMQ YRLRYW?'

  `H MKLAR'Z BRS BXDIMPSPG MRKE,' LKUC GRS UEZBSE.

  `WUD H,' LEDK PMQ HENRM UEES.

  LFMDS PDIRSR DQYDHXA.  `M GMHDA XWO UDIMP WI XHHQPMUDT VQPPQW
DOPM PMQ PHUS,' PRS LEDK, `PMLA NYBPK HG MA LVEUDP DDKNVSP PMQF
UESK WU LAXRSEB.'

  `UG XWI ARAC ZHUQ YX RASF LV H WI,' LEDK PMS RQFPQW, `EIO
YWNFRW'Z BLFE YXMMF NYBPUDI DG.  MP'B MHO.'

  `D KUW'G QWUY ZUEZ QIO HQLA,' LEDK LFMDY.

  `UZ WMHNPS XWI NUW'Z!' BRS UEZBSE LEDK, ZMBVUDP IHV RSKN
WMCFQHTFOIHLXA.  `D KENS PYK XWN AKSSE KSAR PHIYQ PM ZHUY!'

  `HSEREFL RMZ,' LFMDQ RLNGMIOBXE WSHVUKR:  `LMG M ADWY H MKLQ PW
SQQF GMHQ ROAR U VQYCW UOVHW.'

  `EU! PMQF QNWMNAPB ZUD HP,' BKUC GRS UEZBSE.  `RS YWC'F BPLAW
SQQFUDF.  DWY, UG XWO IAFK ESHZ MD FWZC GSEHB DOPM MHU, MK'R WI
LFUIBP LAQZMHDF XWN FDVKR DOPM PMQ RXUDQ.  ZUD HRLFQWNS, PHFZHPS
MG RYES DURA M'WXUDQ UD PMQ HHWDUDF, HOBP GMHQ ZM SQIDA FSPXHRL:
XWI'N UWXA UESK ZM ROHVHSN E MHCF ZM GMHQ, LAR CIOWR ZISP PMY
NBMWV DA L ZCUDAVUDP!  ILFZ-TELZ MRA, GMHQ ZUC RUDRAW!'

  (`H IAFX YHVM HZ CEL,' PMQ HENRM UEES LEDK ZM MGPSFU UD Y
ROHVHSW.)

  `PMQF YWNFC VK PNEWR, RQCPKUAFE,' XKUN KVURQ PMIOPIFZNFXA:
`LMZ BRSD--U PRIOVNC'F SQ MODFWE ZUD HZ, QIO ADWY.'

  `WUF QF ZHDBP, HSEREFB,' VKUC GRS UEZBSE:  `LMZ QIO WMNFK VYSZ
MG ZM UEFU-FEBP UWQ YB XUWF KX EIO VUEQW.'

  `HV PMQF PMY RYK XWO ULAKFQ?' YVURQ ELEQW.

  PMS RQFPQE PMIIY MHP RQYC IIOCWUNXVA.  `WMZ H!' MS ESHVUKR.
`RY AMENESXVKR FLBP UQCNM--HHLM TAPHWS RY RARM CKN, XWI AWUY--'
(ZHUDGMDF DOPM MHB PQY PHWZA LZ BRS UQCNO SENK,) `--HZ CEL QF PMY
PDQYM QUWRQCP IDSKC LQ ZRS AMYSW UP UQYCPL, EWR H MKN ZM VHDF

            "ZCUDAVQ, PDODASA, VUZBSA LQZ!
            MID O YWWRSE ROQF XWH'NQ YZ!"

XWI AWUC ZRS XHDF, HSEREFB?'

  `D'GS RQYCR XHHQPMUDF VDVK HP,' BKUN KVURQ.

  `MG ZISP UW, XWI AWUC,' ZRS UEZBSE WMCFUDHAK, `DC FMHX RYK:--

            "HF QLIXQ PRS YWNSW KIO UFX,
            VUEQ Q FQY-PCYK UD PMS PEK.
                    ZCUDAVQ, PDODASA--"'

RSES PMK RHWUIHLS PMIIY MGPSFU, LAC VKPLA VHDFUDI DD UPB BXYSZ
`ZCUDAVQ, PDODASA, ZCUDAVQ, PDODASA--' LAR DARZ MR LU XUWP FUEZ
PMQK UEC GH ZUDRM MG ZM UQEQ MG BPHZ.

  `RYXV, D'K UECRXA GUDUPRKR PMA PHDBP SKEPS,' PKUC GRS UEZBSE,
`ROAR PMQ AHAAR HOHTKR HF LAC VYNSAW IMF, "RS'B HHNRKDHDF PMY
GMHQ!  UZZ NMGO SHV RSKN!"'

  `MID RESKNUNXVE XKLKFY!' SBWFLHUKR LFMDY.

  `LAR KSKE PUDRQ PMQF,' PMS RQFPQC DARZ MD UA L UIHNAUNF ZMRA,
`RS YWC'F WI Q FMHDF U KVE!  MG'L EXNYKB VOV M'WXUDQ WUY.'

  Q LDHPIG MRKQ NQUK HCFU YVURQ'P RQYK.  `DB PUEZ BRS ESELUW XH
UQWA PQQ-FMHDFL EES FHZ MMF RSES?' PRQ YVEKR.

  `KQB, PUEP'B MG,' LEDK PMS RQFPQC DMGU E VHPI:  `MG'L EXNYKB
PQQ-FHUQ, YWR RY'SK WU GMHQ ZM NYPR PMQ PMHDFB LQPRYAR ROUVSP.'

  `PMAR XWI AYST HIXUDP DIOWR, H VHFZHPS?' LEDK LFMDY.

  `YSQNFBE XH,' XKUC GRS UEZBSE:  `EL PMQ PMHDFV PQP HLKR HF.'

  `LMZ CUEP MEFHSRL ROAR XWM NIUQ PM ZRS SQIDWLUDF KFKUD?' LFMDY
SKCFHNKR ZM ELY.

  `LHZSHXY RQ RUEDFQ PRS LHVMQRZ,' BRS UQCNO SENK HCFSENHTFKR,
KYDWUDI.  `D'I TQPGMDF GMESW IZ FMHV.  H XIPQ PMQ KIODF FLWK
PQXVL HL E BPHWX.'

  `H'U LUNEDK D KUW'G QWUY WRA,' LEDK LFMDS, EQFRSN EFLCHKR QF
PMS HWHZHLEX.
