At the other end of the continuum, qualitative analysis typically
involves nonmathematical processes oriented toward language
interpretation or the building of theory.  Aspects of this work involve
the processing--either manual or computational--of large and sometimes
massive amounts of textual sources, although the use of nontextual
sources as evidence, such as photographs, sound recordings, film footage,
and artifacts, is significant as well.

Scholars have discovered that many of the methods of interpretation and
analysis that are related to both quantitative and qualitative methods
are processes that can be performed by computers.  For example, computers
can count.  They can count brush strokes used in a Rembrandt painting or
perform regression analysis for understanding cause and effect.  By means
of advanced technologies, computers can recognize patterns, analyze text,
and model concepts.  Furthermore, computers can complete these processes
faster with more sources and with greater precision than scholars who
must rely on manual interpretation of data.  But if scholars are to use
computers for these processes, source materials must be in a form
amenable to computer-assisted analysis.  For this reason many scholars,
once they have identified the sources that are key to their research, are
converting them to machine-readable form.  Thus, a representative example
of the numerous textual conversion projects organized by scholars around
the world in recent years to support computational text analysis is the
TLG, the Thesaurus Linguae Graecae.  This project is devoted to
converting the extant ancient texts of classical Greece.  (Editor's note:
according to the TLG Newsletter of May l992, TLG was in use in thirty-two
different countries.  This figure updates MICHELSON's previous count by one.)

The scholars performing these conversions have been asked to recognize
that the electronic sources they are converting for one use possess value
for other research purposes as well.  As a result, during the past few
years, humanities scholars have initiated a number of projects to
increase scholarly access to converted text.  So, for example, the Text
Encoding Initiative (TEI), about which more is said later in the program,
was established as an effort by scholars to determine standard elements
and methods for encoding machine-readable text for electronic exchange.
In a second effort to facilitate the sharing of converted text, scholars
have created a new institution, the Center for Electronic Texts in the
Humanities (CETH).  The center estimates that there are 8,000 series of
source texts in the humanities that have been converted to
machine-readable form worldwide.  CETH is undertaking an international
search for converted text in the humanities, compiling it into an
electronic library, and preparing bibliographic descriptions of the
sources for the Research Libraries Information Network's (RLIN)
machine-readable data file.  The library profession has begun to initiate
large conversion projects as well, such as American Memory.

While scholars have been making converted text available to one another,
typically on disk or on CD-ROM, the clear trend is toward making these
resources available through research and education networks.  Thus, the
American and French Research on the Treasury of the French Language
(ARTFL) and the Dante Project are already available on Internet.
MICHELSON summarized this section on interpretation and analysis by
noting that:  1) increasing numbers of humanities scholars in the library
community are recognizing the importance to the advancement of
scholarship of retrospective conversion of source materials in the arts
and humanities; and 2) there is a growing realization that making the
sources available on research and education networks maximizes their
usefulness for the analysis performed by humanities scholars.

The fourth process of scholarly communication is dissemination of
research findings, that is, publication.  Scholars are using existing
research and education networks to engineer a new type of publication:
scholarly-controlled journals that are electronically produced and
disseminated.  Although such journals are still emerging as a
communication format, their number has grown, from approximately twelve
to thirty-six during the past year (July 1991 to June 1992).  Most of
these electronic scholarly journals are devoted to topics in the
humanities.  As with network conferences, scholarly enthusiasm for these
electronic journals stems from the medium's unique ability to advance
scholarship in a way that no other medium can do by supporting global
feedback and interchange, practically in real time, early in the research
process.  Beyond scholarly journals, MICHELSON remarked the delivery of
commercial full-text products, such as articles in professional journals,
newsletters, magazines, wire services, and reference sources.  These are
being delivered via on-line local library catalogues, especially through
CD-ROMs.  Furthermore, according to MICHELSON, there is general optimism
that the copyright and fees issues impeding the delivery of full text on
existing research and education networks soon will be resolved.

The final process of scholarly communication is curriculum development
and instruction, and this involves the use of computer information
technologies in two areas.  The first is the development of
computer-oriented instructional tools, which includes simulations,
multimedia applications, and computer tools that are used to assist in
the analysis of sources in the classroom, etc.  The Perseus Project, a
database that provides a multimedia curriculum on classical Greek
civilization, is a good example of the way in which entire curricula are
being recast using information technologies.  It is anticipated that the
current difficulty in exchanging electronically computer-based
instructional software, which in turn makes it difficult for one scholar
to build upon the work of others, will be resolved before too long.
Stand-alone curricular applications that involve electronic text will be
sharable through networks, reinforcing their significance as intellectual
products as well as instructional tools.

The second aspect of electronic learning involves the use of research and
education networks for distance education programs.  Such programs
interactively link teachers with students in geographically scattered
locations and rely on the availability of electronic instructional
resources.  Distance education programs are gaining wide appeal among
state departments of education because of their demonstrated capacity to
bring advanced specialized course work and an array of experts to many
classrooms.  A recent report found that at least 32 states operated at
least one statewide network for education in 1991, with networks under
development in many of the remaining states.

MICHELSON summarized this section by noting two striking changes taking
place in scholarly communication among humanities scholars.  First is the
extent to which electronic text in particular, and electronic resources
in general, are being infused into each of the five processes described
above.  As mentioned earlier, there is a certain synergy at work here.
The use of electronic resources for one process tends to stimulate its
use for other processes, because the chief course of movement is toward a
comprehensive on-line working context for humanities scholars that
includes on-line availability of key bibliographies, scholarly feedback,
sources, analytical tools, and publications.  MICHELSON noted further
that the movement toward a comprehensive on-line working context for
humanities scholars is not new.  In fact, it has been underway for more
than forty years in the humanities, since Father Roberto Busa began
developing an electronic concordance of the works of Saint Thomas Aquinas
in 1949.  What we are witnessing today, MICHELSON contended, is not the
beginning of this on-line transition but, for at least some humanities
scholars, the turning point in the transition from a print to an
electronic working context.  Coinciding with the on-line transition, the
second striking change is the extent to which research and education
networks are becoming the new medium of scholarly communication.  The
existing Internet and the pending National Education and Research Network
(NREN) represent the new meeting ground where scholars are going for
bibliographic information, scholarly dialogue and feedback, the most
current publications in their field, and high-level educational
offerings.  Traditional scholarly practices are undergoing tremendous
transformations as a result of the emergence and growing prominence of
what is called network-mediated scholarship.

MICHELSON next turned to the second element of the framework she proposed
at the outset of her talk for evaluating the prospects for electronic
text, namely the key information technology trends affecting the conduct
of scholarly communication over the next decade:  1) end-user computing
and 2) connectivity.

End-user computing means that the person touching the keyboard, or
performing computations, is the same as the person who initiates or
consumes the computation.  The emergence of personal computers, along
with a host of other forces, such as ubiquitous computing, advances in
interface design, and the on-line transition, is prompting the consumers
of computation to do their own computing, and is thus rendering obsolete
the traditional distinction between end users and ultimate users.

The trend toward end-user computing is significant to consideration of
the prospects for electronic texts because it means that researchers are
becoming more adept at doing their own computations and, thus, more
competent in the use of electronic media.  By avoiding programmer
intermediaries, computation is becoming central to the researcher's
thought process.  This direct involvement in computing is changing the
researcher's perspective on the nature of research itself, that is, the
kinds of questions that can be posed, the analytical methodologies that
can be used, the types and amount of sources that are appropriate for
analyses, and the form in which findings are presented.  The trend toward
end-user computing means that, increasingly, electronic media and
computation are being infused into all processes of humanities
scholarship, inspiring remarkable transformations in scholarly
communication.

The trend toward greater connectivity suggests that researchers are using
computation increasingly in network environments.  Connectivity is
important to scholarship because it erases the distance that separates
students from teachers and scholars from their colleagues, while allowing
users to access remote databases, share information in many different
media, connect to their working context wherever they are, and
collaborate in all phases of research.

The combination of the trend toward end-user computing and the trend
toward connectivity suggests that the scholarly use of electronic
resources, already evident among some researchers, will soon become an
established feature of scholarship.  The effects of these trends, along
with ongoing changes in scholarly practices, point to a future in which
humanities researchers will use computation and electronic communication
to help them formulate ideas, access sources, perform research,
collaborate with colleagues, seek peer review, publish and disseminate
results, and engage in many other professional and educational activities.

In summary, MICHELSON emphasized four points:  1) A portion of humanities
scholars already consider electronic texts the preferred format for
analysis and dissemination.  2) Scholars are using these electronic
texts, in conjunction with other electronic resources, in all the
processes of scholarly communication.  3) The humanities scholars'
working context is in the process of changing from print technology to
electronic technology, in many ways mirroring transformations that have
occurred or are occurring within the scientific community.  4) These
changes are occurring in conjunction with the development of a new
communication medium:  research and education networks that are
characterized by their capacity to advance scholarship in a wholly unique
way.

MICHELSON also reiterated her three principal arguments:  l) Electronic
texts are best understood in terms of the relationship to other
electronic resources and the growing prominence of network-mediated
scholarship.  2) The prospects for electronic texts lie in their capacity
to be integrated into the on-line network of electronic resources that
comprise the new working context for scholars.  3) Retrospective conversion
of portions of the scholarly record should be a key strategy as information
providers respond to changes in scholarly communication practices.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
VECCIA * AM's evaluation project and public users of electronic resources
* AM and its design * Site selection and evaluating the Macintosh
implementation of AM * Characteristics of the six public libraries
selected * Characteristics of AM's users in these libraries * Principal
ways AM is being used *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Susan VECCIA, team leader, and Joanne FREEMAN, associate coordinator,
American Memory, Library of Congress, gave a joint presentation.  First,
by way of introduction, VECCIA explained her and FREEMAN's roles in
American Memory (AM).  Serving principally as an observer, VECCIA has
assisted with the evaluation project of AM, placing AM collections in a
variety of different sites around the country and helping to organize and
implement that project.  FREEMAN has been an associate coordinator of AM
and has been involved principally with the interpretative materials,
preparing some of the electronic exhibits and printed historical
information that accompanies AM and that is requested by users.  VECCIA
and FREEMAN shared anecdotal observations concerning AM with public users
of electronic resources.  Notwithstanding a fairly structured evaluation
in progress, both VECCIA and FREEMAN chose not to report on specifics in
terms of numbers, etc., because they felt it was too early in the
evaluation project to do so.

AM is an electronic archive of primary source materials from the Library
of Congress, selected collections representing a variety of formats--
photographs, graphic arts, recorded sound, motion pictures, broadsides,
and soon, pamphlets and books.  In terms of the design of this system,
the interpretative exhibits have been kept separate from the primary
resources, with good reason.  Accompanying this collection are printed
documentation and user guides, as well as guides that FREEMAN prepared for
teachers so that they may begin using the content of the system at once.

VECCIA described the evaluation project before talking about the public
users of AM, limiting her remarks to public libraries, because FREEMAN
would talk more specifically about schools from kindergarten to twelfth
grade (K-12).   Having started in spring 1991, the evaluation currently
involves testing of the Macintosh implementation of AM.  Since the
primary goal of this evaluation is to determine the most appropriate
audience or audiences for AM, very different sites were selected.  This
makes evaluation difficult because of the varying degrees of technology
literacy among the sites.  AM is situated in forty-four locations, of
which six are public libraries and sixteen are schools.  Represented
among the schools are elementary, junior high, and high schools.
District offices also are involved in the evaluation, which will
conclude in summer 1993.

VECCIA focused the remainder of her talk on the six public libraries, one
of which doubles as a state library.  They represent a range of
geographic areas and a range of demographic characteristics.  For
example, three are located in urban settings, two in rural settings, and
one in a suburban setting.  A range of technical expertise is to be found
among these facilities as well.  For example, one is an "Apple library of
the future," while two others are rural one-room libraries--in one, AM
sits at the front desk next to a tractor manual.

All public libraries have been extremely enthusiastic, supportive, and
appreciative of the work that AM has been doing.  VECCIA characterized
various users:  Most users in public libraries describe themselves as
general readers; of the students who use AM in the public libraries,
those in fourth grade and above seem most interested.  Public libraries
in rural sites tend to attract retired people, who have been highly
receptive to AM.  Users tend to fall into two additional categories:
people interested in the content and historical connotations of these
primary resources, and those fascinated by the technology.  The format
receiving the most comments has been motion pictures.  The adult users in
public libraries are more comfortable with IBM computers, whereas young
people seem comfortable with either IBM or Macintosh, although most of
them seem to come from a Macintosh background.  This same tendency is
found in the schools.

What kinds of things do users do with AM?  In a public library there are
two main goals or ways that AM is being used:  as an individual learning
tool, and as a leisure activity.  Adult learning was one area that VECCIA
would highlight as a possible application for a tool such as AM.  She
described a patron of a rural public library who comes in every day on
his lunch hour and literally reads AM, methodically going through the
collection image by image.  At the end of his hour he makes an electronic
bookmark, puts it in his pocket, and returns to work.  The next day he
comes in and resumes where he left off.  Interestingly, this man had
never been in the library before he used AM.  In another small, rural
library, the coordinator reports that AM is a popular activity for some
of the older, retired people in the community, who ordinarily would not
use "those things,"--computers.  Another example of adult learning in
public libraries is book groups, one of which, in particular, is using AM
as part of its reading on industrialization, integration, and urbanization
in the early 1900s.

One library reports that a family is using AM to help educate their
children.  In another instance, individuals from a local museum came in
to use AM to prepare an exhibit on toys of the past.  These two examples
emphasize the mission of the public library as a cultural institution,
reaching out to people who do not have the same resources available to
those who live in a metropolitan area or have access to a major library.
One rural library reports that junior high school students in large
numbers came in one afternoon to use AM for entertainment.  A number of
public libraries reported great interest among postcard collectors in the
Detroit collection, which was essentially a collection of images used on
postcards around the turn of the century.  Train buffs are similarly
interested because that was a time of great interest in railroading.
People, it was found, relate to things that they know of firsthand.  For
example, in both rural public libraries where AM was made available,
observers reported that the older people with personal remembrances of
the turn of the century were gravitating to the Detroit collection.
These examples served to underscore MICHELSON's observation re the
integration of electronic tools and ideas--that people learn best when
the material relates to something they know.

VECCIA made the final point that in many cases AM serves as a
public-relations tool for the public libraries that are testing it.  In
one case, AM is being used as a vehicle to secure additional funding for
the library.  In another case, AM has served as an inspiration to the
staff of a major local public library in the South to think about ways to
make its own collection of photographs more accessible to the public.

                                  ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
FREEMAN * AM and archival electronic resources in a school environment *
Questions concerning context * Questions concerning the electronic format
itself * Computer anxiety * Access and availability of the system *
Hardware * Strengths gained through the use of archival resources in
schools *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Reiterating an observation made by VECCIA, that AM is an archival
resource made up of primary materials with very little interpretation,
FREEMAN stated that the project has attempted to bridge the gap between
these bare primary materials and a school environment, and in that cause
has created guided introductions to AM collections.  Loud demand from the
educational community,  chiefly from teachers working with the upper
grades of elementary school through high school, greeted the announcement
that AM would be tested around the country.

FREEMAN reported not only on what was learned about AM in a school
environment, but also on several universal questions that were raised
concerning archival electronic resources in schools.  She discussed
several strengths of this type of material in a school environment as
opposed to a highly structured resource that offers a limited number of
paths to follow.

FREEMAN first raised several questions about using AM in a school
environment.  There is often some difficulty in developing a sense of
what the system contains.  Many students sit down at a computer resource
and assume that, because AM comes from the Library of Congress, all of
American history is now at their fingertips.  As a result of that sort of
mistaken judgment, some students are known to conclude that AM contains
nothing of use to them when they look for one or two things and do not
find them.  It is difficult to discover that middle ground where one has
a sense of what the system contains.  Some students grope toward the idea
of an archive, a new idea to them, since they have not previously
experienced what it means to have access to a vast body of somewhat
random information.

Other questions raised by FREEMAN concerned the electronic format itself.
For instance, in a school environment it is often difficult both for
teachers and students to gain a sense of what it is they are viewing.
They understand that it is a visual image, but they do not necessarily
know that it is a postcard from the turn of the century, a panoramic
photograph, or even machine-readable text of an eighteenth-century
broadside, a twentieth-century printed book, or a nineteenth-century
diary.  That distinction is often difficult for people in a school
environment to grasp.  Because of that, it occasionally becomes difficult
to draw conclusions from what one is viewing.

FREEMAN also noted the obvious fear of the computer, which constitutes a
difficulty in using an electronic resource.  Though students in general
did not suffer from this anxiety, several older students feared that they
were computer-illiterate, an assumption that became self-fulfilling when
they searched for something but failed to find it.  FREEMAN said she
believed that some teachers also fear computer resources, because they
believe they lack complete control.  FREEMAN related the example of
teachers shooing away students because it was not their time to use the
system.  This was a case in which the situation had to be extremely
structured so that the teachers would not feel that they had lost their
grasp on what the system contained.

A final question raised by FREEMAN concerned access and availability of
the system.  She noted the occasional existence of a gap in communication
between school librarians and teachers.  Often AM sits in a school
library and the librarian is the person responsible for monitoring the
system.  Teachers do not always take into their world new library
resources about which the librarian is excited.  Indeed, at the sites
where AM had been used most effectively within a library, the librarian
was required to go to specific teachers and instruct them in its use.  As
a result, several AM sites will have in-service sessions over a summer,
in the hope that perhaps, with a more individualized link, teachers will
be more likely to use the resource.

A related issue in the school context concerned the number of
workstations available at any one location.  Centralization of equipment
at the district level, with teachers invited to download things and walk
away with them, proved unsuccessful because the hours these offices were
open were also school hours.

Another issue was hardware.  As VECCIA observed, a range of sites exists,
some technologically advanced and others essentially acquiring their
first computer for the primary purpose of using it in conjunction with
AM's testing.  Users at technologically sophisticated sites want even
more sophisticated hardware, so that they can perform even more
sophisticated tasks with the materials in AM.  But once they acquire a
newer piece of hardware, they must learn how to use that also; at an
unsophisticated site it takes an extremely long time simply to become
accustomed tM PMQ RIUFHPQC, WMZ ZM HQCFHIC FRS HEIZNEU IZLSEKR DOPM PMY
WMHTMFSE.  LFX UZ FRSPS BHLFV UBVHAP EKUPS UWA SENPK AMSPGMUW, ALHQXA,
ENS PEXPQHB VUEQ QU PCNFE WYRENKDDF UD E LRMWZS ADLHDUWHQCF, HW WI PMQK
VHHTXA QNF QV HWLIXQFDGQ PWXB PUEG CU XMGFBQ HHWQ PUER LFEDE UDPQESBP?

PNYSUQW NUWPQWRKR PMQF PMY SLKFNQFHIR FWHHKQM UEP EKSQYSAR VKSSELF BPESDFPMB
PMQF RYES FKUDKR PMWHIFM PRS HLY HU LCNMHLKS NSPIOCNSP UD BRMIUXV, HWNFNKDDF:

     * HPQWMHN CYRENRV PNIU HLUDF KU QL E LKBP, DHRM NKFQLQPS, DOPM
     PQQNRSEP ELVHFDUDI GENHIHL HEIHQRPB ZM BPINARPB--HWLF HESPARFQGMUWB,
     DCMGPQW CSHHWPB, K NMWOUARFQWE, Q FHNW-UZ-FRS-RQCFHNA WYRPHEFSE--
     HEIHQRPB PMQF BPENZ CMGM PRS UQPQDHLFV HA LC TMF ENQ RIUFSQPKR HLUDZ
     MZRSW SSPIOCNSP; QU PMHL HV HLKR EL E NSPQYCNM PWZV UW NUWHOWNGMUW
     DOPM MZRSE SSAQMWHDUN CSPIOCNSP, EL RYXV EL DOPM XMIYL EWR MGQHV HW
     PMA SMVNEWE ROSEQ PRS XEBPQH HV PSF MZ.

     * BPINARPB ENQ YQBOHDHDF WMHTMFSE VUPQNEWQ UD E UOULAMGHKB RUWPQBZ.

     * PMHV XHCP UZ XEBPQH HV IXSEWMUHDF PMK HXHFLGMUW SQZCYSW RHVDMFSUDSP
     PMQF UZPQR AVOBPV HR LRMWZXB.  ZUE SLYHTSA, UQWA ARFVHVM PQYRMSEL EES
     ESAMHDUDP FRSHD BPINARPB ZM DCMGS HEFSEX HR UHVZMDHNQB FHZMDB
     ESHESPARPQK DA LU.  COUSEIOB PQYRMSEP RKLS ESHHWPQC GUEZ BRSHD
     BPINARPB ENA SQYCWUDT DDHGMNQB FMHDAUDP VVDXVL HVHDF PMS PEXPQO.

     * UW Q LWHKNSE SASKF, LU HV HCFWHNIDMDF HEHUENQ OQFSEUKXB, WUZ MAFX
     ZM BPINARPB LMF QXBM ZM ZQYRMSEV, HA LR ADLHDUWHQCF ROSEY HZFAR
     VHHTXA WURA YSHVF--QR ABWMGUDP FMHDF ZUC PRS BPINARPB SQNQHLK HZ
     RSSFB PRSU BQYCW ZM WMWRMNP CSPQYCNM, PI HCFSEHEQP, LAC GI WNEY
     PMKHW HDW WMWNFNVHUWV.  HA FQYCWUDP FM WUWNIQM ESPSENRM LAR DUEG MZ
     HQLAB, VFMRKCFL EES UIGMLKPQC GH XYSY VWUNXKRPK.  PMQF ESFLPQB PW
     LAMZRSE HHXMGDGY HMFWMHQ--E UDIU SKSAS UZ HSEPUWLF UDXIXSQHARZ MZ
     BPINARPB DOPM PMQ HQFSEUKXB UD PMHV XEBPQH LAK IESQFSE UIGMLKGMUW ZM
     WMWRMNZ BRSHD WYW CSPQYCNU EWR RCYN PMKHW HDW WMWNFNVHUWB.

     * HSEREFB PRS UIBP HDUWMD BPESDFPM UZ PMSPQ EUDRV UZ ENRMDGLF
     ASQRPCUWMD ESXHHNRQV HB PUEM CLAX WZ FRS PQQNRSEP QU UDPQDSHKRYW
     RYES RKPHSEQFK, HG ML RH YLYZVSEQFHIC FH XYK, WUZ MAFA ZHW HEHUENX
     UQPQDHLFB LMF ZUN HRLPCMNFMESR GDHUQWE UQPQDHLFB.  PRSPS YWNFC, GRSX
     PMIOPIF, ZHXPQE HSEXHALXVQ OMZDGQFKR ESPSENRM, YSFSHWQFHIA, LWR
     YSDMPQHQCF UD PMKHE PFMRKCFV.  HWRYSC, GRSPS UQPQDHLFP RKLK RUWY
     HOBP PMQF.  HDUWMDLFXA, MIRYSKC, PMHB XQNY IP LPCMNFMES HEIWMNSP
     XHHQ UZ PMQ RUWUNVHUW ZM ROMDM PRS RADWSPX HZ FRSPS VDWRX HZ
     ESXHHNRQB HYK LFXH WMCFDHLMPQ.  PMQ EQK ZM APPAQMDGA HPS UZ ENRMDGLF
     HEIWMNPB UD E LRMWZS ADLHDUWHQCF HV Q NSAEN, APPAQMDGK HCFWHNIQMHIW
     ZM PMS PEXPQU QWR ZM ROQF MG WMCFKURL.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
KDBRHLVHUW * WUPMUDI VWUDW, AMLAGMFQGMSKXA, QLIOZ BRS ANCTSE UZ
MOUQDUGMSP BRMIFLEP ROI UHLP BYS PMY HDHIDALX SSELHB PMIPS ROW YIOVN
PSZBSA ZUN ER AKDPQC GNERLNCHGZ, MN EXMMF PMY RYKV HW DMHRM MOUQDUGMSP
BRMIFLEP ENA HVHDF UDZUCHQFHIC FQRURUXIZA * ZHDC QUWNBHLHIRL WMWNSEDUDF
PMQ HLARAN EWR YSPQCF UZ PMA HPS UZ LHZSHWGMDF UQPQDHLFV HR FDHCF
HEIXDKKR XQ QU ZM YNKUM QIUFSQPHIW UP ALKFNQFDGS PFMWK * L FHVPQRAE'P
ESUFQRGMUWX HA LWVMGHIALF LZSVUNQGMUWX HP ASAQMWHDUQ MYSPB * WHSA UZ
ASQRPCUWMD ESXHHNRQV HC FQYRMUDP KSAHQCFENE WSPQYCNR PVDXVB PH XFMRKCFB *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

NIDHDF PMK RHVNMBVHIC FUEF ZUXXURYC GRS HESPARFQGMUWB LQ OMDRSXBUW,
SKWBUK, LAN GESQHLA, KNKDGMUWLF ZHUDPB QHSEPKW.

SAVE ELEQK DT UMDRSXBUW WMNFK IDGQ YWA AMLAGMFQGMSK SPGMUQPQ UZ PMY
ANCTSE UZ MOUQDUGMSP BRMIFLEP ROI UHLP BYS HW NYCF ZM PSQ PRS HWDIUDLF,
HW PMQ SSPF THXVHLXK SSEVHUW UZ PMQ HQFSEUKX, SSELHB PMIPS ROM ZEZMDLFXA
YWNFR VQPFBA PHW LA KRMGKR PCLABRDHTF.  ROUVA HALLXQ PH ZWHGDRK L UDIHNY,
PRY HZLSEKR RSD HHTESBVHIRL EL LA ENRMDGHVZ CMI UEV RUWS PIUS EAPSEARRQ
YWDE LAR IEL KDBRHLPSC GMHV HBVHA DOPM MZRSN ECNMHGDBPX RMI HSNPHWO
ESPAESWNQ, PUEZ BMIPS ROI OPS ENRMDGSP LAC GMIPS ROI OPS HEHUENE XIOCNSP
ZUC DUEZ CIOVN SQ WMRLDKSEKR SKWE MHPI-SASKX BRMUXENXA ESPSENRM, EL
HZZHPSC GH, XYK, NARKDPNENIQFS HEFSEX, RSEA PYR UD ANCTSE, SPHSDMLFXA
IDSKC FRS FHLXMD UDPQESBP UD HLUDP TDHUQWE XHHNRQB PM WUWNIQM
PKRALFIZMDLF HW KLMWQFHIALS NSPQYCNU EWR PMQ EUDW IZ TWHPABVHIALX
ESPSENRM WIRA XQ HSHZSA UD HEDGQFK HWRHLPCX WC PRS PARKNEV FIXSECUARZ.
UIES HUZHCPLAG MC UMDRSXBUW'B SHKY ZEL PMQF, AMLAGMFQGMSKXA, WUPMUDI DB
ADWYA LXMMF PMY RYKV HW DMHRM, ZUE SLYHTSA, MOUQDUGMSP BRMIFLEP ENA HVHDF
UDZUCHQFHIC FQRURUXIZA.  WH XFMKDSP YSHVZ BW ZZLSE FIDKLARQ UD NCQYGMDF
BPNEPQIDSP.  PMQ HHXP CQRARP BFMWK NYB RUWNIQMKR UD 1985 XQ PMQ YHQDHNQW
WMNADMX UU FQYCWKR XHDMQPHKL (ENBL), EWR ROQF MG PRWYKR NYB PUEZ 50
HSCNARZ MP UOULAMGHKB VRMUXENL EZ BUEZ BHUY RSEA HVHDF WMHTMFSEB.  PUEZ
WMRLGMFMPQB PRS YSPQCF UZ IOD EWUNXKRPK.

WMWNSEDUDF QU'B VPCQFKPA ZHW HWHKCFUDP TYHFSQ PWYENC GRS BRHZY HZ
ASQRPCUWMD ESXHHNRQL, PESQHLA WMNFW IZLSE WU UECR WMWNFNVHUWL EZ BMHB
ZHUDM, TQRLNPS PRQ YWR RSC NUXSAKFHAX RSES PGMXV NYMGUDP FH XYS,
FECPMDNFENXA UD PMS PRMWZXB, ROQF UEB LYSC UKNY HZ FRSHD APZUCPX.  RMGMHW
PMS PEXPQU, MWYKSSE, QU UEP HWHGDRKR DUEF QES NQXVKR ASQRPCUWMD YSMHVMPB-
-LHRM EL UDPCIWMNGMUWB PM ZHUS HSEHIRV LAC IQFSEUKXB--LAC GRSPS ENY
UDPQWRKR ZM UZPAN E BPINARF MPSN E PSRLY HZ NUEF Q SCUYRVDKK HL  EWR ROQF
MG UHPIZ BASS USE HW MHC.  TMF PNYSUQW NUWRQRKC GUEZ BRS HEIHQRP BFQZL
YWNFR IKLQ PM ZLFY DMGR PFMRKCFL RYSZ QQYN, EZFSE PQQNRSEP UESK UEN K
LHOBSE ZM HLQ PRS UQPQDHLFL, EWR QFPQHTZ BI WHVWMSKC DUEZ BRS BPINARPB
RYES SAENDUDF PNIU PMQ HQFSEUKXB.  UD KNKDGMUW, PNYSUQW RSPNCMVKR
LHZSHWGMDF UQPQDHLFV HR FDHCF HEIXDKKR XQ QU QF PMS EQAHABP UZ XUNQX
PQQNRSEP NIDHDF Q UYSGMDF RSVN QF BN.  PMSPK HWNFNRKC GHUA SUDSP,
VMLXHIPDEFMHSP, LAW IPMSE UQPQDHLFB PUEM QIOVN SQ ESHEIWMNKR UW Y
HRMZMWHZHKD HA L NBELPEWZC.  MQYRMSEB RIOVN NYVA YNYK DOPM LAN IPS PMSPY,
LAK DC FMHX RYK FKUD Q LQPPQN HWRSEBPLAKDDF UZ PMQ RUWPQCFB.  LMF KFKUW,
ESQNMHDF GUCH WMWNFNVHUWB RUWRQCWUDP FRS UQWLSE LAR KBZARZ MZ FRSHD HLY
YWNFR IKLQ PW YKUF MCFUV RABZ KQEN.

EL ZM PMQ RUEDFSP PRS PYN MWNMWSUDF KZ BRS ALGMUWLF ENRMDGSP LAR CQRHWRV
KNUHDUBPNEGMUW (ALNE) EL E NSPNFZ MZ FRS UDNCQYVHDF QHHRELHV UW
PQRMWUXUZK UD BRMIFLNSE WSPQYCNM, UMDRSXBUW BPQFKR PMQF ALNE QF PMHV
ZHUDZ CEL QLXHCSUDP FRS ESZHCP XQ RSN EWR HKZL WHPMARSQDP KNRCSPVHDF
BPNEPQIDSP ZUC PRS ENRMDGLF HEUZSPVHUW UD PKRANEF, LBFMIIFU RMZ ZUC PRS
ALGMUWLF ENRMDGSP PHQRUGMDLFXA.  ALNE HV HOBP SQIDWLUDP FH YBPQLVUPR MGB
WHSA LAR DUEG MM QLA WI.  UD PQCHX HT NUEDFSP LAK DDUGMQFDGSP PMQF ALNE
NQC FYEA, RM WSAEN ESPHUWPS WMNFC VK PDGAR QF PMHV GMHQ.

PDYSAUHKVN ESUQDEKR ZCM ZESWRB HARGMUWKR UD PMS PSPVHUW.  ESUFQRGMDF UW
NKXA'X HHSDUDF WMOBARPB UW MIR OQ RIOVN UESK HLKR L FQFUD WMXVQRGMUW UZ
PQBZ UD LA ASQRPCUWMD ZUCH, RS LEDK PMQF QF GUEPP MQ PMIIFMP UIBP BRMIFLEP
YWNFC VA HWDUVVUDF ZM WI PMQF.  LMF QP RQ PMIIFMP UZ PMQF UD PQCHX HZ FRS
HWDIUDLF HQLAUDZ IP NSPQYCNM--PUEG MP, RKLUDF KSNQYWK UQBPSEKR PMSPQ PYSPB,
ESPSENRMUDP FRSU THW NCMGMDLF LAR NIUFENEGMSK FHEHHXSP--ZUC PRS GUEPZ BHUY,
PMY SSAQMWHDUN THWUQM CKNQ Y XUZ MP LARPS.  PDYSAUHKVN WMNFR KDLHVHIW
PDWYUDF DOUSQEP UZ BRMIFLEP SAENDUDF PMA RYR PQRMWUXUIDSP ZUC PUEG BSEX
ELHSQM UZ PMKHE PRMUXENPRHG LAN GHW WMDLARHKWNS'P LEEQ.

VUBPARUDP FI XQRDMY LWR PNYSUQD, FESARGUASC GMIIFMP UZ LA KNKDGMUWLF
EFFSMDQFHIW UP ASAQMWHDUQ MYSPB.  RS ESLFOGKR PMQF QU WMNFC VA HPSN KL E
FIDKQ PU XQYR VIUYHRA ZM HWDIUDLF XHHNRQB.  VFMRKCFB RLAWUM TY SSZQRPQW
ZM UESK UQBPSEKR PMSPS PIOCNSP, PMUDPV PMQK UESK RASKD EWUDW QLIOZ
SQZUES.  PMHL, QU HV SAKNUDP FRSU, HC FRSHWQ, ZU Y LKBP XMWK UZ
UDZUCHQFHIA LWR IDGDDF PMQH E LHFSEGUDMLF IXSEGDYR UZ MG, ARQLVUDF PMQH
ZM PSSAQM FECPX HG UF.  PESARGUASN KVEKR UG LAK QGDRKWNY SVOBPB PUEZ BMHB
ESXHHNRQ DOXV UDRKKR PQQNM PRS RAN OPSC, PRS E-12 VFMRKCFP, RWY ZM WI
ESPSENRM.  BRMIFLEP LFESKNK EWUR OWY ZM WI ESPSENRM LAN KES EFFSKODF
PMSPA RYR ZMUXB.  LMF RS YWWRSEKR ROE XFMRKCFX RIOVN ZI SQXWWR GHDQUDZ
IOZ BMHDFB PUEZ CSEQ HHXP QBWMGUDP FM ZRSO.

PNYSUQW NUWRQRKC GRS WMWSQRFCSPX HZ PESARGUASR'V MXPSDSQFHIA LL EZSVUKR
ZM E LRMWZS ADLHDUWHQCF.  PMS EHVV DB PUEF Q BPINARZ CIOVN VHG CWYA LF Q
XEBPQH, FSYK DOPM MG, GUWR XHHQ PMUDPV UZ UDPQESBP, LAC GRSW DLFE YNYX.
LMG MC FRS ESFLGMSKXA WMCFWHXVKR VHFMQFHIW UU L BRMIUX VUSCENQ, OMNO RUVX
RKHSWR UW PMK HRLPCMNGMUWL E PQQNRSW HN E VUSCENUKD FDGSP E LFMRKCF.  PRY
GDYRKR PMS PMGNLGMUW WUF QX HRA UZ GURA-FMDUDF ESPSENRM VEUVXB LMZ MZ
UDXIXSUDP VFMRKCFL EF Q HSEPUWLF SASKV UA NWRSEBPLAKDDF LAR CSPQYCNMHDF
PMUDPV.  IDSKC FRS FIDKLARQ UWQ RLA ESRQDGQ YP BRMWZV, UZ BRSC LQRIUSP
ZHBVMVSA ZM PQQNR SSAHQCFENE WSPQYCNR PVDXVB PH XFMRKCFX, RMHRM UD ULQM
UWS HENGMNMFLN SMVNEDHLA LEDK PRY REL PQQNMHDF RSN PUGPM PDKNSEB.
PNYSUQW NUWNBINKR PMQF UDPCIWMNUDP FRS DKQY UZ ZUXVWYUDZ IRA'X HDW FEPM
UZ UDAMHDX, YMHRM HV SPPSCFUKXVX YUEP CSPQYCNR SCFKUXB, UDXIXSSP UIES
PMLA PQQNMHDF PHQRUGMD VEUVXB.  ZM PMSPQ RIUHQCFB SQRDMY LWVKR PMY
MXPSDSQFHIC FUEZ BRS UDKDGDNILF PQQNRSN EWR PMA HPS UZ Q NESQFDGY
ESXHHNRQ, NEPMSE PMLA QU MGPSFU, PSQHKR ZM UQEQ PMQ EQK KDZLSEARRQ.
XHHQ BRMIUXL EWR XHHQ PQQNRSEP ENQ HYEUDP KBWASSACF HLY HZ FRS ALFMES
UZ NCMGMDLF PMUDVDDF LAC GQYRMUDP VVDXVB, VRS LEDK.

WMWNHNDHDF DOPM PMSPS EQHENEV, NKXA NBHXKR PMS PSPVHUW DOPM PMQ PMIIFMP PMQF
PMQ HHWQ PUEF TWHNIRQEP HEIWMNKR ZUC PQYRMSEL EWR ZUE PRMUXENB PI OPS DOPM
PMKHE PFMRKCFB, PRS UIES LHWBSPLPNF PMKHE SSAQMWHDUR TWHNIQMX RIOVN HEIXY.

                                 ******

PSBVHID UH.  VMIN YWR PQXV

UKQBHAVURA RSBV, KDESQMHW, ALGMUWLF RKUIRLPCQFHIA FQLHWQFHWE, XSESKN KB
UIRKNEZMW HZ FRS "PRWY-LAC-GASX" BSPVHUW.  PRA RMZKR PMQF Y
AMSPGMUW-LAN-KRLRYE HSEHIR DIOVN ZUXVWY QYRM HESPARFQGMUW.

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
OQXUALX * HSKDSHKN YWR WMCFARZ MZ TSEPSHL * HSEPAHP' HDHUQWE UQPQDHLFB
YSHVG MA L XEBPQH-UDRKHSWRARF, QCNMHLKF UHWU * Q WMWNSPVHUW * PQBZNLX
ELHSQMX HZ TSEPSHL * ZMUXB PI OPS DOPM PMK PESQE PQBZ * HESHENKR UDKDRQB
LAN GNFB-FYSP BQYCNRSV HR FSEPSHL * ARFVHVI-PESQE YWCR PSENRM SAKNB PW
NBHXS PFMWK UZ YWCRL EWR WMWNSHPB * ALGDFKGMDF HSEPAHB LQ ZNEDMDF WIDW
UDKDRQL * HVHDF PMK HWMWUPDEFOE ZM HSNPHWH CSPQYCNO *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

ASVU OQXUALB, HLAKFUDP KKDZME, HSEPSHL HEIHQRP, MENLKCR NADGSEVHZQ, GUEPZ
FKSK LA IXSEGDYR UZ HSEPAHL, E FLDPQ, RUXFLXMNEGMSK APZUCP LQPSN KZ
UEDSENN IDUSKEPMGQ XMF DOPM WMCFDHLMZMEP LAR NUXFLXMNEZMEP XUNQPQN KZ
ANHQWHHL NADGSEVHGMSP LAR NUXSAPKV HC FRS NAMGKR BPQFSP (K.P., XMDRIHW,
UQWEFLWR, ZHUIAL, RMMDKFI, XHDIDDUL).  UNARKR GDHUQDHXA XQ PMY
LARACLSET/DTS HEIHQRZ, CMGU EWVMGHIALF UNAKDDF PNIU EFFSS, RENLKCR, LAW
PMS HQNEYCR MOUQDUGMSP UDBPMGMFQ, YUIDF MZRSEP, HSEPAHV HL E UOBFHUKRUK,
OEHSCPYSFMLF NKFQLQPS ZUC PQYRMUDF KWR ESPSENRM UW NBELVHNQV FESQE
DMGDVUFYGMUW, ROMDO REL ESSAELKR UD PASCNLWE 1992 UD SKEPHIA 1.0 LWR
