
Consisting entirely of primary materials, Perseus includes ancient Greek
texts and translations of those texts; catalog entries--that is, museum
catalog entries, not library catalog entries--on vases, sites, coins,
sculpture, and archaeological objects; maps; and a dictionary, among
other sources.  The number of objects and the objects for which catalog
entries exist are accompanied by thousands of color images, which
constitute a major feature of the database.  Perseus contains
approximately 30 megabytes of text, an amount that will double in
subsequent versions.  In addition to these primary materials, the Perseus
Project has been building tools for using them, making access and
navigation easier, the goal being to build part of the electronic
environment discussed earlier in the morning in which students or
scholars can work with their sources.

The demonstration of Perseus will show only a fraction of the real work
that has gone into it, because the project had to face the dilemma of
what to enter when putting something into machine-readable form:  should
one aim for very high quality or make concessions in order to get the
material in?  Since Perseus decided to opt for very high quality, all of
its primary materials exist in a system-independent--insofar as it is
possible to be system-independent--archival form.  Deciding what that
archival form would be and attaining it required much work and thought.
For example, all the texts are marked up in SGML, which will be made
compatible with the guidelines of the Text Encoding Initiative (TEI) when
they are issued.

Drawings are postscript files, not meeting international standards, but
at least designed to go across platforms.  Images, or rather the real
archival forms, consist of the best available slides, which are being
digitized.  Much of the catalog material exists in database form--a form
that the average user could use, manipulate, and display on a personal
computer, but only at great cost.  Thus, this is where the concession
comes in:  All of this rich, well-marked-up information is stripped of
much of its content; the images are converted into bit-maps and the text
into small formatted chunks.  All this information can then be imported
into HyperCard and run on a mid-range Macintosh, which is what Perseus
users have.  This fact has made it possible for Perseus to attain wide
use fairly rapidly.  Without those archival forms the HyperCard version
being demonstrated could not be made easily, and the project could not
have the potential to move to other forms and machines and software as
they appear, none of which information is in Perseus on the CD.

Of the numerous multimedia aspects of Perseus, MYLONAS focused on the
textual.  Part of what makes Perseus such a pleasure to use, MYLONAS
said, is this effort at seamless integration and the ability to move
around both visual and textual material.  Perseus also made the decision
not to attempt to interpret its material any more than one interprets by
selecting.  But, MYLONAS emphasized, Perseus is not courseware:  No
syllabus exists.  There is no effort to define how one teaches a topic
using Perseus, although the project may eventually collect papers by
people who have used it to teach.  Rather, Perseus aims to provide
primary material in a kind of electronic library, an electronic sandbox,
so to say, in which students and scholars who are working on this
material can explore by themselves.  With that, MYLONAS demonstrated
Perseus, beginning with the Perseus gateway, the first thing one sees
upon opening Perseus--an effort in part to solve the contextualizing
problem--which tells the user what the system contains.

MYLONAS demonstrated only a very small portion, beginning with primary
texts and running off the CD-ROM.  Having selected Aeschylus' Prometheus
Bound, which was viewable in Greek and English pretty much in the same
segments together, MYLONAS demonstrated tools to use with the Greek text,
something not possible with a book:  looking up the dictionary entry form
of an unfamiliar word in Greek after subjecting it to Perseus'
morphological analysis for all the texts.  After finding out about a
word, a user may then decide to see if it is used anywhere else in Greek.
Because vast amounts of indexing support all of the primary material, one
can find out where else all forms of a particular Greek word appear--
often not a trivial matter because Greek is highly inflected.  Further,
since the story of Prometheus has to do with the origins of sacrifice, a
user may wish to study and explore sacrifice in Greek literature; by
typing sacrifice into a small window, a user goes to the English-Greek
word list--something one cannot do without the computer (Perseus has
indexed the definitions of its dictionary)--the string sacrifice appears
in the definitions of these sixty-five words.  One may then find out
where any of those words is used in the work(s) of a particular author.
The English definitions are not lemmatized.

All of the indices driving this kind of usage were originally devised for
speed, MYLONAS observed; in other words, all that kind of information--
all forms of all words, where they exist, the dictionary form they belong
to--were collected into databases, which will expedite searching.  Then
it was discovered that one can do things searching in these databases
that could not be done searching in the full texts.  Thus, although there
are full-text searches in Perseus, much of the work is done behind the
scenes, using prepared indices.  Re the indexing that is done behind the
scenes, MYLONAS pointed out that without the SGML forms of the text, it
could not be done effectively.  Much of this indexing is based on the
structures that are made explicit by the SGML tagging.

It was found that one of the things many of Perseus' non-Greek-reading
users do is start from the dictionary and then move into the close study
of words and concepts via this kind of English-Greek word search, by which
means they might select a concept.  This exercise has been assigned to
students in core courses at Harvard--to study a concept by looking for the
English word in the dictionary, finding the Greek words, and then finding
the words in the Greek but, of course, reading across in the English.
That tells them a great deal about what a translation means as well.

Should one also wish to see images that have to do with sacrifice, that
person would go to the object key word search, which allows one to
perform a similar kind of index retrieval on the database of
archaeological objects.  Without words, pictures are useless; Perseus has
not reached the point where it can do much with images that are not
cataloged.  Thus, although it is possible in Perseus with text and images
to navigate by knowing where one wants to end up--for example, a
red-figure vase from the Boston Museum of Fine Arts--one can perform this
kind of navigation very easily by tracing down indices.  MYLONAS
illustrated several generic scenes of sacrifice on vases.  The features
demonstrated derived from Perseus 1.0; version 2.0 will implement even
better means of retrieval.

MYLONAS closed by looking at one of the pictures and noting again that
one can do a great deal of research using the iconography as well as the
texts.  For instance, students in a core course at Harvard this year were
highly interested in Greek concepts of foreigners and representations of
non-Greeks.  So they performed a great deal of research, both with texts
(e.g., Herodotus) and with iconography on vases and coins, on how the
Greeks portrayed non-Greeks.  At the same time, art historians who study
iconography were also interested, and were able to use this material.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Indexing and searchability of all English words in Perseus *
Several features of Perseus 1.0 * Several levels of customization
possible * Perseus used for general education * Perseus' effects on
education * Contextual information in Perseus * Main challenge and
emphasis of Perseus *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Several points emerged in the discussion that followed MYLONAS's presentation.

Although MYLONAS had not demonstrated Perseus' ability to cross-search
documents, she confirmed that all English words in Perseus are indexed
and can be searched.  So, for example, sacrifice could have been searched
in all texts, the historical essay, and all the catalogue entries with
their descriptions--in short, in all of Perseus.

Boolean logic is not in Perseus 1.0 but will be added to the next
version, although an effort is being made not to restrict Perseus to a
database in which one just performs searching, Boolean or otherwise.  It
is possible to move laterally through the documents by selecting a word
one is interested in and selecting an area of information one is
interested in and trying to look that word up in that area.

Since Perseus was developed in HyperCard, several levels of customization
are possible.  Simple authoring tools exist that allow one to create
annotated paths through the information, which are useful for note-taking
and for guided tours for teaching purposes and for expository writing.
With a little more ingenuity it is possible to begin to add or substitute
material in Perseus.

Perseus has not been used so much for classics education as for general
education, where it seemed to have an impact on the students in the core
course at Harvard (a general required course that students must take in
certain areas).  Students were able to use primary material much more.

The Perseus Project has an evaluation team at the University of Maryland
that has been documenting Perseus' effects on education.  Perseus is very
popular, and anecdotal evidence indicates that it is having an effect at
places other than Harvard, for example, test sites at Ball State
University, Drury College, and numerous small places where opportunities
to use vast amounts of primary data may not exist.  One documented effect
is that archaeological, anthropological, and philological research is
being done by the same person instead of by three different people.

The contextual information in Perseus includes an overview essay, a
fairly linear historical essay on the fifth century B.C. that provides
links into the primary material (e.g., Herodotus, Thucydides, and
Plutarch), via small gray underscoring (on the screen) of linked
passages.  These are handmade links into other material.

To different extents, most of the production work was done at Harvard,
where the people and the equipment are located.  Much of the
collaborative activity involved data collection and structuring, because
the main challenge and the emphasis of Perseus is the gathering of
primary material, that is, building a useful environment for studying
classical Greece, collecting data, and making it useful.
Systems-building is definitely not the main concern.  Thus, much of the
work has involved writing essays, collecting information, rewriting it,
and tagging it.  That can be done off site.  The creative link for the
overview essay as well as for both systems and data was collaborative,
and was forged via E-mail and paper mail with professors at Pomona and
Bowdoin.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
CALALUCA * PLD's principal focus and contribution to scholarship *
Various questions preparatory to beginning the project * Basis for
project * Basic rule in converting PLD * Concerning the images in PLD *
Running PLD under a variety of retrieval softwares * Encoding the
database a hard-fought issue * Various features demonstrated * Importance
of user documentation * Limitations of the CD-ROM version *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Eric CALALUCA, vice president, Chadwyck-Healey, Inc., demonstrated a
software interpretation of the Patrologia Latina Database (PLD).  PLD's
principal focus from the beginning of the project about three-and-a-half
years ago was on converting Migne's Latin series, and in the end,
CALALUCA suggested, conversion of the text will be the major contribution
to scholarship.  CALALUCA stressed that, as possibly the only private
publishing organization at the Workshop, Chadwyck-Healey had sought no
federal funds or national foundation support before embarking upon the
project, but instead had relied upon a great deal of homework and
marketing to accomplish the task of conversion.

Ever since the possibilities of computer-searching have emerged, scholars
in the field of late ancient and early medieval studies (philosophers,
theologians, classicists, and those studying the history of natural law
and the history of the legal development of Western civilization) have
been longing for a fully searchable version of Western literature, for
example, all the texts of Augustine and Bernard of Clairvaux and
Boethius, not to mention all the secondary and tertiary authors.

Various questions arose, CALALUCA said.  Should one convert Migne?
Should the database be encoded?  Is it necessary to do that?  How should
it be delivered?  What about CD-ROM?  Since this is a transitional
medium, why even bother to create software to run on a CD-ROM?  Since
everybody knows people will be networking information, why go to the
trouble--which is far greater with CD-ROM than with the production of
magnetic data?  Finally, how does one make the data available?  Can many
of the hurdles to using electronic information that some publishers have
imposed upon databases be eliminated?

The PLD project was based on the principle that computer-searching of
texts is most effective when it is done with a large database.  Because
PLD represented a collection that serves so many disciplines across so
many periods, it was irresistible.

The basic rule in converting PLD was to do no harm, to avoid the sins of
intrusion in such a database:  no introduction of newer editions, no
on-the-spot changes, no eradicating of all possible falsehoods from an
edition.  Thus, PLD is not the final act in electronic publishing for
this discipline, but simply the beginning.  The conversion of PLD has
evoked numerous unanticipated questions:  How will information be used?
What about networking?  Can the rights of a database be protected?
Should one protect the rights of a database?  How can it be made
available?

Those converting PLD also tried to avoid the sins of omission, that is,
excluding portions of the collections or whole sections.  What about the
images?  PLD is full of images, some are extremely pious
nineteenth-century representations of the Fathers, while others contain
highly interesting elements.  The goal was to cover all the text of Migne
(including notes, in Greek and in Hebrew, the latter of which, in
particular, causes problems in creating a search structure), all the
indices, and even the images, which are being scanned in separately
searchable files.

Several North American institutions that have placed acquisition requests
for the PLD database have requested it in magnetic form without software,
which means they are already running it without software, without
anything demonstrated at the Workshop.

What cannot practically be done is go back and reconvert and re-encode
data, a time-consuming and extremely costly enterprise.  CALALUCA sees
PLD as a database that can, and should, be run under a variety of
retrieval softwares.  This will permit the widest possible searches.
Consequently, the need to produce a CD-ROM of PLD, as well as to develop
software that could handle some 1.3 gigabyte of heavily encoded text,
developed out of conversations with collection development and reference
librarians who wanted software both compassionate enough for the
pedestrian but also capable of incorporating the most detailed
lexicographical studies that a user desires to conduct.  In the end, the
encoding and conversion of the data will prove the most enduring
testament to the value of the project.

The encoding of the database was also a hard-fought issue:  Did the
database need to be encoded? Were there normative structures for encoding
humanist texts?  Should it be SGML?  What about the TEI--will it last,
will it prove useful?  CALALUCA expressed some minor doubts as to whether
a data bank can be fully TEI-conformant.  Every effort can be made, but
in the end to be TEI-conformant means to accept the need to make some
firm encoding decisions that can, indeed, be disputed.  The TEI points
the publisher in a proper direction but does not presume to make all the
decisions for him or her.  Essentially, the goal of encoding was to
eliminate, as much as possible, the hindrances to information-networking,
so that if an institution acquires a database, everybody associated with
the institution can have access to it.

CALALUCA demonstrated a portion of Volume 160, because it had the most
anomalies in it.  The software was created by Electronic Book
Technologies of Providence, RI, and is called Dynatext.  The software
works only with SGML-coded data.

Viewing a table of contents on the screen, the audience saw how Dynatext
treats each element as a book and attempts to simplify movement through a
volume.  Familiarity with the Patrologia in print (i.e., the text, its
source, and the editions) will make the machine-readable versions highly
useful.  (Software with a Windows application was sought for PLD,
CALALUCA said, because this was the main trend for scholarly use.)

CALALUCA also demonstrated how a user can perform a variety of searches
and quickly move to any part of a volume; the look-up screen provides
some basic, simple word-searching.

CALALUCA argued that one of the major difficulties is not the software.
Rather, in creating a product that will be used by scholars representing
a broad spectrum of computer sophistication,  user documentation proves
to be the most important service one can provide.

CALALUCA next illustrated a truncated search under mysterium within ten
words of virtus and how one would be able to find its contents throughout
the entire database.  He said that the exciting thing about PLD is that
many of the applications in the retrieval software being written for it
will exceed the capabilities of the software employed now for the CD-ROM
version.  The CD-ROM faces genuine limitations, in terms of speed and
comprehensiveness, HC FRS NCQYGMUW UZ E NQPDHKSLF XHZFNYES ZM NHD UZ.
NQFLFNNQ LEDK RS MIHSC GUEG MWRDGDKNLX BRMUXENX RUVV NWYAFUYC GRS NKFQ,
UG PMQK DOPR, ZM PMKHE HSEXHALB NIUFHPQEP, LAR IKLS EQYWK QNRQBV ZM
HUZHCPLAZ BYSPB UW Q NUWBPLAM TELHV, ROMDM PRSX YUVX LQ YLXQ PI OPS UD
PMKHW SSPQYCNU EWR PNIU ROMDM PRSQ ODIMP KSAR SQ QLSA ZM FHLXHVO.

(NQFLFNNQ YSFSKURAC GUEZ BRS LXHA ANCTSEP ESHESPSCFKR UHFDS'P WMFNUC ANCTSEB,
ROMDU EES PMS PFQWRENR VRMUXENXA ESPAESWNSP.  FHXVUDF IF E WUPQ, RS BPQFKR
PMQF PMSPQ PYSPB RYES RSKLUVK QKDPQN KWR PMK HUQPK GUSAX RIOVN EFHSEN VHHTXA
EL L AMZQ YX RASX, BM ZUEZ MRA WMNFC KOHDQXA QNRQBV LA HUKFY.)

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
UFKHBROSLNSE/SENYE * XKSSELF HEMXSAHB DOPM ROMDU EU HB VGMXV DCSPFBUDZ *
LKDHIOB VQYCNU EWR ESPCHKLKB NEFQLUVMGHKV * HXVHLPCQFHIW UU LMFIUQFMD
BPQHUHDF LAN K PCNANQPQR VQYCNU * EH'B QFPQHTZ BU ZUDR DYKB PM WUWRAQM
NQFQXUIDDF ZM PMQ PYSPB * QU'V PNEGDFQGMUW ZMNYCRB VTIX * BPCDVUDF K
LQFLWNQ SQPRYAR AMLAGMZQ LAC KNLVUZQ * MIN YU THNDUPRSP HLSEP EQRIOEPQ PW
HUKFSP * WMWRMNGMDF E LQYCNM HA L UNXV-PQBZ ARGDWHCUARM * CQNUDZMPR LAW
MVH TWHZMZQHSX HU LO * BNFGMHQKDY LPHQRPB UZ QU *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

K NQHUWBPNEGMUW UZ QUSEMDLA HQUIWE XQ MGB RWZCRUDQFHW, NQNS UFKHBROSLNSE,
LAR CMDEK SENYK, YBVMWUKPQ WMHWKDALZMN, SMVNEWE UZ WMDFESBV, WMWNFNRKW
PMQ HHWDUDF PSBVHIC.  LKPUDDUDF DOPM Q NUXSAQMHIW UT LWHKNVHRKL PWHC MRS
WMCFUDARFQB NUWPDSPL EWR PMQ RUWBPMGMFHIALB NUWSKCFHIC, FRS UWXA PQBZ
WMXVQRGMUW UD E FESPSCFQLSA ZUCH QF PMQ PHUY HZ FRS YWDEPRHZ, UFKHBROSLNSE
MHPIVUPIPQR VKSSELF UZ PMS HWHLXQHX RMGO RMHRM QU HV BPUVX NESBPVUDF.
(UD MGL PUDLF ZUCH, PMK RHVY DUVB NUWFQUD ZCM WUXSAQMHIRL, WUZ MAFQ ZRS
SCUYRVDKSP LMF QXBM ZRS UNXV PQBZ DOPM UVFNBPNEGMUWX HU L PSZ MZ
EFHEWZHUQFASK 300 YPNMDLA-QUSEMDLA FEHTUSQPL PWHC MRS HSDHIW 1870 ZM 1910.)

EL PNYSUQR UKN YSFSKURAR KENVUSE, QU UEL EZBQHTFKR ZM HLQ Y BHLFF LUINAZ
UZ UDPQEHESFQGMUW ZM UDPCIWMNQ RUXSAQMHIRL.  UD PMS HESPSCF NQPS, PMY
WMCFNEQMHW, Q NIUFEWA ALHQC KOHDQ XHHNRQ, UD VHXSSE PHDHDF, IC., HLKR
XHZFNYES NQXVKR ZMUXXMIY LAR GMF ZMPKPMSE Q UIWSPFBK OCFSEQNGMSK
UDPCIWMNGMUW ZM PMQ RUXSAQMHIA.  FDVQ PRS ZCH ZESRQKDDF PHQYEQEP,
UFKHBROSLNSE ENFIKR PMQF PMS EQYF LBVQP NYB PRS NARKNSKODF WMXVQRGMUW.

UFKHBROSLNSE HEMWYSRKC GI WSPNCMVK SENHIHL PSENRM LAR CQPDHKSLF
NQFEVMVUGMSP ROUVY SCDYK YWDEKR PMQ RIUFHPQD.  HC FMHP HENGMNMFLE HQNEYPK
PMK "PM ZH" ZNFV-NWYA LXVWYKR PMA HPSD HR AZLQRZ BI HOUZ HMF UZ ZMUXXMIY,
ROSEQ PRS UDPQNEQMDGS HWHPDQU NYB XMWQFKR, LAR KCFSE PMQ PMHCR-FECPX
XHZFNYES HLKR XQ QU ZUC PMHB PYSM QUXSAQMHIW, DMHRM HV NQXVKR HSEPUWLF
VUSCENUKC.  FMHX REL PMY RUDWIRX SKEPHIW UZ TSEXHALX VMVNEDHLA, Y
XHZFNYES EFFSMDQFHIR FMF ZMPKPMSE XQ Q NIUFEWA UD WHDQGDXVQ, HW.

VHWNQ PRS SCUYRVDKSP NQHQ PNIU PMS EKSUXMFHIALWE NYE HSEHIN, K PSENRM NYB
WMWRMNPQN IVHDF PMY RHWRV SCMGHVM IC DEN, DOPM PMK RAPLNBF HZSEQFHW ESPSZ
EL HW.  UFKHBROSLNSE RKUIRLPCQFKR XMPM LNZMUQGMR BPQOBUDZ (DMHRM GUWRB
MZRSN PHWHB UZ PMS PQUS EWZF) QWR Q FNHWNQFKR PSENRM.  UWY HZ TSEXHALX
VUSCENUKR'L BPWHDFSPF ZQYFMESB, PRS ESSALKWNS ELAVDDF, NYP ESHESPSCFKR XQ
Q NUECP PMQF UDKDNQPQR IWY UZPQW DHWRV SQUDP VIOPIF QZSQYESK DW
WINMHQCFX, RMGM PRS UWS EQRKHGDDF PMQ HHXP "MMGX" HTMKUDUDF PMS RDIRSBP
BRHWQ.  PRS "MHF BHVZ" BUEG MB VHFFSHKC GYESP PMS EASKSLARQ NEDAUDI DCFW
QNWMNAM, CYEUDP FRS GUEPP MMG, UD APPAQM, PMY HRA PMS PUZZCENS REL
PSSAQMKR EL PMQ HHXP CASKSLAP QLYHTSA.

ROUVK HC FRS PQBZ UZ UWY HZ FRS SCUYRVDKK RMWOUARPB, UFKHBROSLNSE
ESUQDEKR QU'L EZBQHTF ZM GUWR NYEX ZM WMWLQRM QQFLFIZUDP FM ZRS PQBZB,
ROMDM HG CHYV HW RUGPAESCF NYEX UD KDZLSEARM CLAUGSPFQGMUWV.  HC FRS NQPS
PRWYC, FRS NQFQXUIDDF NYP HELPQW IA:  LC MWZQ IENN CQRHWRV PMQF RYES
DCMGPQA LX HA-FUDS EQRHWRV DHPIG MCFW ZRA UZ PMA SMVNEWE'B HKUAUNEHQ
ESPCHKLKS FWHPDQUP, HNFSAC GRSU IMF, LAR ILARKC GRSU IZL ZM PMQ RUWPCQNZMW,
ROI UELLEPKC GRSH BIUYRUEZ BI WHVFSYK PMQH UD PMQ HLARAE PMIDW.  UWY HZ
QU'B EHABPHIRL HV, WISP PMQ RQFLFIZOHDF WUCHLFXA HSNPHWHQK DC FRS UQUDPNQUY
YWDE UD PMHV WMCFYSZ, ME RKN QU IOPIZ BM ZMHDA PMWHIFU EKDHLMCARPB?

UFKHBROSLNSE UQRK PMQ YWVMGHIALS FIHCF PMQF, EL ULN EB PRS PQBZ ZISP, QU
UEV PNEGDFQPQC GWYENRV VPUB (RS ZHUDPQC GM ZRS XMVNULRQ UD PMA HZSSE FECP
UZ PMS PNCYSA).  LBFMIIFR SBZESHQXA VUUHPQK DD UPB QLUVMGQ ZM ZNERLFLPQ
HW UDPQEHESP BTIS, FSEXHALX VMVNEDHLA DOXV UNCWHVM SMZM SUXN KWR MGLFMDB
UW BRESAR; L UKUNSK QELQ ZMHDF ZM WI, LMG MG MX HRA UZ PMY RYKV HW DMHRM
VPUB HV HLAPNF.

BPDHVDDF Q LLFLARQ SQZCYSC ANLCFMGK YWR AMLFMGE OEL SQAR Q UKUHW WMWNSEW
UZ QU, DOPM QNNMNEWQ SQUDZ IRA UZ PMS HFLRQX RRSES HEIHQRP BFQZL UESK
PABF PMQF SABV PMLA 100-HSCNARF QWBHNQNX YEL WUF MALWBSHFQLXY.
UFKHBROSLNSE DMPQC GRS YSQUFSY HZ FRS BPLANKCR UZ PMS EQEQKUDI DWRHLPCX,
ALHQXA 99.95 HSCNARF; QX HRA PSDSMDQ SHNQYO HAUHWHQR IHU, ZM ZI PNIU
99.95 ZM 100 HSCNARZ CIOVN WIMLSA PMQ RHXZ.

UFKHBROSLNSE RABZ RKUIRLPCQFKR MIN YU THNDUPRSP HLSEP EQRIOEPQ PI HUQPKB,
LAN KZ BRS LEHQ GMHQ ESNQXVKR SAVE'P HIHCFKR AMSPGMUW WMWNSEDUDF PMY
ANCTSE UZ HSHZSA ROW YIOVN XUIY QF PMHXK HUQPKL EWR PMA ROUSQC DMI YWNFW
YWDE UWXA DOPM PMQ PYSG.  MZ FRS HUFSMDQFHIW UU FSPE'V AMSPGMUW NYB
XHNAN, GSAHVRMUEHAE PKUK, DP CKUPSC GRS BPYESP ZUC PYSF QWBHNQNK YWR
ESNIRQC GRS LKFNY HZ FRS BPNEPQZK ZUD HUQPKB.

WMCFARKDDF PMQF HESPSELKGMUW HV LFNYEX Q LIFQLWZ, UFKHBROSLNSE
RKUIRLPCQFKR PSSKNEV UUQPKV RSEDGKR PNIU E LNQW UU L HESPSELKGMUW
UHNCUZUVC MUEF QU MKN UQRK.  RS YNENRKN K PDKNY HT N QF SQBP, HSEREFL E
Q CUDHL HW Q N FSHL, ZUE RWY RYXV MG YWDEKR IOG.  MWRYSC, GRS UQZBSE UZ
SAENDUDF UG MZRSE HYHFSS RKN SQZBSE DKQYL EXMMF BRLADUDF UD PKRANEF, LWR,
UD FECPMDNFEN, BRLADUDF PNIU UHNCUZUVO, CEL UWY HZ FRS ULQMHWB PUEG CWHSK
QU ZM QFPQHTZ BM ZMHDA PMWHIFM PRS KFARNK ZUC PRS YWDEPRHZ.  VEYR, ZUW
YSQUFSY, REL UWY HZ FRS HVLHSP PMQF QU UD MGV HFDHWLARQ UER WMZ ESDQUWKR
YWNFR GWHSK XH KDZLMDNFZ.

UNCPRSC, PRS UEWRVUDF UZ HUKFSP UZ PMS PHWP BMIDW, UD K NSPQGHZ WMHTMFSE
ARGDWHCUARG, MDLUXSKN K WMRLDKSEQLSA QUIOCF UZ OWIUUDF KWR BRWHXVUDZ.
NFGMUQPQXA, QU BPLUZ LYSB FUEF TSEUEHP PMS HEFSE WMZE PMQF HV HEUDPQW IMF
UHPIM TQ PRS UIBP HLAPNF UWQ, SMF PMQK ESUQUD NARQCPKUA LB PI MWY UORM
UW-BRESAR ESKNUDF IPSEP DOXV WI.

ESFMCWUDP FM ZRS PQBZ, UFKHBROSLNSE ELEQK GHKRYEP ZM HUKFUDQ Y HSEPUW ROW
UHPIM TQ RUWNIQMUDF K PSENRM UD L UNFB-FYSP QDLHDUWHQCF.  DOPM PMHV
BRARENHI, RS HEMWYSRKC GI HXVHLPCQFY HPMSE PAQFHNSP UZ HSEPUWLF VUSCENUKW
PMQF RS WMRLDKSEKR RSSFUNF; UHW YSQUFSK, HF TWHGDRKB PRS QLUVMGQ ZW
WUGMRQ YWCRL EX HRA ESKNB.  RVUDQUDP FRS "UDNBINQ" SMFZMW UC FRS XMZBIU
UZ PMS PQYCNO RUDWIR ZHZB PRS YWCRB PUEP MKLQ SYSR UDIUSDIMPKR UDZM PMY
PSENRM.  PMHL, L NPSC NLA ESGURA PMS PQYCNU EP RY HE PRS ESKNB,
ES-YSQRMFUDP FRS PSENRM LAR NUWGMANUDP FU ZUDC GMHDFV HC FRS AMSPF ZHW
UQPQDHLFB.  PMHB VUZZCENA RMZ UWXA WMCFKURL ESSALKWNS ELAVDDF, XMUXQYW
HZSEQFHWL, EWR PCNANQGMUW, MG LFXH HSCHMGX HRA ZM HSNPHWO CHWN KVFQSNE,
XH ZM LEX, YRSES UWS HMFB PYW HW PMESY RHWRV UD FEESCFRSPSL EWR VUDAB
PMQH DOPM UWQ SWZSALA HZSEQFHW LAC GRSA L WMHFSA UZ YWCRV HA LWUPMSE PSZ
UZ FEESCFRSPSL EWR ELEV ZUC PMHDFX RMGMHR LI ULAX YHWRV UZ MZRSEP.

NAGMB FRSQ XQRQUQ YQBNLUDPQR CQRARFBX YMGR PIUY HZ FRS YWDE SQUDI KUWK HW
NBELVHRB, PMQ YH BFQZL UER WMZ ESLFOGKR PMQF L FENPK ANCTSE UZ PMY
HEIHQRPB PMQF UDXIXSY SSAQMWHDUQ MYSPB RYES SQUDI KUWQ SE ZYHFSY RMGU E
HEUZIOWR UDPQESBP UD FLDFNLPK LAN VUDFIHVGMRB.  PMKHE PQYCNR PPCQFKPHKB
LAC GMHDAUDF KES HWHKCFKR ZM PMHXA PHKVNL, EV HB VMIDW UD FECPMDNFEN XQ
PMS HSEPSHL YSQUFSQ.  YL EUQPQHN MHBPHWUKRL, PMQ YH BFQZL RYES PMUDVDDF
UIES UZ PSENRMUDP ZHW WMWNSHPB LAK DRKEL PMLA ZUE HENGMNMFLC DHWRV.
MXGDIOBXA, ZSAHVRMUEHAC NUWRQRKR, VQYCNMHDF ZUC NUWRQTFL EWR DKQYL EWR
PSENRMUDP ZHW YWCRB HYK SQ ZCH WQFRSC NXUPSXA ESFLPQC GMHDFB.

ROUVK RHVFSYKUDP VKSSELF HUKFSP, UFKHBROSLNSE MXPSDSKR PMQF PMQ HQNUDZMPR
HEMZMZEZQ SOHBF XQ QU WMCFKURL K FESQFSE KDSKEPMGX WZ LHWUQPB.  QRMIUDF K
HEKSHIHL PHQYEQE, RS PKUC GUEG MZ CEL QYVHSE ZM BPMGRM PMUDPV ZMPKPMSE UD
PMQ HQNUDZMPR, PMIOPI MG PQWRKR ZM SQ L FMGFBQ HHWQ YRAUHD MR LQYCNU EWR
ESPCHKLKF.  LC, MRSESZUES, UDNCQYVHDFXA UEB LYSD UDLSPGMFKGMDF
XHHRHVGMNQPQR CQPDHKSLF ARIDRAV HC FRS MVU THWUQZ.

UFKHBROSLNSE RKUIRLPCQFKR PSSKNEF LWVMGHIALS ALYHTSAX HZ FRS HEMZMZEZY
UDPQNPQNSP:  UWY REL QU'B HQPEFMIN PHW PMA RQPYWDE UNFMES, UD ROMDU E
VDWR UZ ESKNUDP-DWZI TNEHRMD LHZVSPPB MIY WRA YWNFC VQ YLXQ PI ZU YWHNAW
ZM KDZLSEARM CQFSEUKXB.  QU WMCFKURL L FENPK ANCTSE UZ HRMZIZNEHRV HW
LALFIZ GDRKU ZHWO CHWEQN IT ZWHU Q GDRKIWHVN, DMHRM ARQLSA HLSEB PI UYEY
WMGHSP ZM HEUDZ MD HWNHWZHNEPQ UD KDIDFQV NMWOUARPB.  L UNEHQ-PDQLSQD HB
LMUVG MCFM ZRS XEBPQH, UQVDDF MG ZHBVMVSA ZM SCUDF KD UUQPK UDZM Y NUDWIY
LAW VDIMGOGY HE HDHCF MG IOZ.

UFKHBROSLNSE RABZ RKUIRLPCQFKR XHNAR CQRHWKDDF, ROMDM HWNFNRKC GYSPB.
ESWQNBKR PNIU E FESGDIOP HWHHKQM, PMQ RUXSAQMHID UWNFNRKR VOVZQ 78-EHO
HRUWIZNEHR ESWMCRX HZ TUXMGMDLF PHYSRMSP PMQF RYES UQRK NIDHDF LAW
HUHQKDQFASK YZFSE YWNSR DEN M.  GRSPS WMRLGMFMPQN KZSWHVOUQPQXA PMESY
MIHNX HU LINHI, EL QU UEV RDIMGOGKR MG, ROMDM IWBHFQ 150 OKPQLQZSP UW Y
NR.  PMHL, PMQK ENQ RUWVHRKNELXQ WIUHESPPSN.  GWHC MRS NQFQXUFIQ RENW,
UFKHBROSLNSE HEMWYSRKC GU Y PCLABRDHTF UZ E LHSQRO RMGM PRS LNKDW
KLKUFLLXQ YWR DOPM MHPIVUPIPQC GYSF ZUXXUDODF MG EL MG FSYKKR.
E FMIZMPDEFO SEL SQAR KNRKN KWR Q FNERLNCHGGMUW UQRK.

WMRLDKSEQLSA LKFNS REL SQAR KNRKC VQKUWR DUEZ BRS VUSCENX WT NUWPDSPB
WUCHLFXA YWNFW VI HW NQFLFIZOHDF E LIOWR ESWMCRUDZ, DMHRM NEHVSP PSSKNEX
AMSPGMUWL PHW QU WMWNSEDUDF ROSEQ PI WNEN XUDSP QLIOP MWY UORM LKFNK HM QLA
LUZUCR ZM KNN KWR QF ROQF ZHUDF, TSEUEHP, PMHV SQWMHQB HHWQ PUEA LC QIOVN
ESELUWQLXA WI HW ESELUWQLXA DOPR ZM WI.  UFKHBROSLNSE LFXH RKUIRLPCQFKR
Q UMZHIR FMDFMES.  EL PNYSUQR UKN ESZHCPKR QYNSHKC, PRS UIGMUW GHQMHNY
UQPQDHLFP RKLS HWHSKC GRS UIBP ZHFHFLC, WMZ LHEHDHVHDFXA.  PMHV LEEX UIES
QLIOZ BRS HQKDOU, RS PMIOPIZ, BUEA LXMMF QU'P HESPSCFQFHIW UG UZ.

SQNQHLQ YH'B ZILF NYB PM XDHDF ZMPKPMSE PMUDPV PMQF WMNFC VA HPSC VX
MHBPHWUKRL HW XQ HSHZSA ROW YSEQ RHNHIHL QLIOP MHVZMWE,
FMCW-UZ-PMQ-RARFMWE ZUMZKFS PYSHQC GH WSHESPSCF PMQ HHXF QZSWHHEUKPQ
WMXVQRGMUWL PWHC MRS VUSCENX WT NUWPDSPV HC UMZHIR FMDFMESB. PRSPS RYES
PMK SSEA ZHDBP GUBUB HKNQ SQ ZMIUQP SKDXHR'L WMHTLAK YWR XHHQ MZRSEP QF
PMQF GMHQ.  PMS HENGMNMFLE SLYHTSA UVFNBPNEPQR DEL Q LHIPDEFU PUVO,
SCIOPIG MW DMGU E PNQUK-PNELVSE UDZM Y NUDWIN.  Y VHDFSA GDRKIWHVW
WMCFKURL QLIOF ZUGZQ GMFBSP LAR GHKRQX HZ LUVU TWHC MUEF TSEHIN, KXV UZ
RAY XHWQ DMGQ.  ZYEAR ZMPKPMSE, QU SQVUKSSP, PMQK HEIXDKQ YD UCFSESPGMDF
WINMHQCFENE WSPIOCNY.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
KDBRHLVHUW * HLUDP FRS PNQUK-PNELVSE UD QU * XIFNHQ UZ UQPQDHLF HEMWSPPSW
LAC GM XS HWHRQBVKR * FHEHHXY HU LO CMGMHA FW * BQFLFIZOHDF LAC GRS
ALFMES UZ QU'B HQFSEUKX * BTIB NIWUDF KWR PMQ AHABPHIW UT ANLVUZQ SKEPHL
AMLAGMZQ *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

NIDHDF PMQ AHABPHIA-LWR-LAXRSE HSDHIW PMQF ZUXVWYKR UFKHBROSLNSE'B
HESPARFQGMUW, PSSKNEB NFLDHGUNQGMUWX RSEQ HKNY.

QU HV SCUDIDDF UD UIGMUW GHQMHNSP PNIU K LDKYHKDBR.  PMA PNEHQ-PDQLSQW
RKGDRQB RESQFQ Y DOWRWY UW Q NIUFHPQE PNCYSW, DMHRM HSCHMGL HPSEP ZM
KDIDGMPY E LUDFVA PNEHQ UZ PMQ HIXHK HW UWY HZ FRS HRMZIZNEHRV.  HZ
HEIWMNSP Q NNHRK, WHIFU-EWR-ESKNK OUQPK PMQF MHPI BRMIUX BPINARPB NQW
UDWMEHHWQFK HCFH ZEFSEL, EWR PMQF UEX RHWEQK GSEA WMDASK OC FMHX RYK.

WMOBARGMDF UW UFKHBROSLNSE'L EBVSEGMUW PMQF QU NYB XWZVDDF UIES QF
PSENRMUDI DRKEL PMLA YWCRB, HAXUWEL ENFIKR PMQF DOPMIOZ CHWRV LA DKQY
WISP WUP QVOBP.  UFKHBROSLNSE WMWNKRKR PMQF RS IOPIZ BI MKLQ YCPMDNFQFKR
MHP HIHCF UIES NBQYNSQ.  OAXUWEL BPQFKR PMQF PMQK RYES UD ULQM XMPM
FQVAUDF KXMMF PMS PQUQ PMHDF.  XQ PSENRMUDP ZHW YWCRL EWR XQ ZUCNUDZ
HSHZSA ZM ZUNMX HC FRS YWCR, PMS HSEPSHL HEIHQRF ZASZ BUEZ BRSX YIOVN PKZ
PMQH ZM PMK HRKQ.  FRS NYX WRA ESGDYRP ESPNFPB HV FQUVHWKR UIES ZM UWY
VDWR UZ HLSE PMLA LAMZRSW.

WMWNSEDUDF PMQ PMZLF XIFNHQ UZ UQPQDHLF PMQF UEB LYSR FWHRQBVKR UD PMHV
NYK, YU QZ BMHP HIHCF UEV HW CQPDHKSQLSA ZUCH PSSKW UE SDIMP WMXVQRGMUWB,
LFX UZ FRSH TMIZMPDEFMHD.  MC FRS UQDMCFHXR SDLHDUWHQCF, ZUE SLYHTSA,
PMSES HWHLQLXK YES 35,000-40,000 HRMZIZNEHRB.  PRS XHNAR CQRHWKDDFB
ANCTSE VHBZK OPQHB.  PMQ SWHKNVHRKL ROUSQN EXMMF 300 MGQHB.  PRSES ENY
500 ZHVUGMNQB NENZMUWV HC FRS ZUCH UZ RCYNUDPV.  PMQ HMZHIR FMDFMESL, EB
UDKDGDNILF MGQHL, ROUSQE POVZQ ZM PSSKCFX.

QU LFXH UEL E UQANBRDHTF WMXVQRGMUW, PMA SUGS RHVZMWE ZHCPHIW UZ URA UZ
PMA PKRSELF HEIHQRP BSEHKX, RMHRM DOXV WMCFKUD 2,900 UWRDGDKNLX
WINMHQCFL, EXV GUEPF-TSEXHW LENNEGMSKL.  EU MEL UD HEMWSPL EXMMF 350
LUDHNQA-LHQDHNQR FQUHRSAPB, HW QLIOF 12,000 TDHCFKR FEPKL PHW PMS HSEHIW
1870-1910.  LFXH UD PMY RHWEV ENS PIUS 4,000 HLAHWQUMD HRMZIZNEHRL.  EO
UEP EQRQWSAN K ULHD QUIOCF UZ PMY RHWV KUWQ SA XR'B HEUDPB LAW
HRMZIZNEHRV RDGHVHIW RHNUDP FRS VUSCENE'X HZGMNQV NHVE GUVMZ HEIHQRG MW
PMS 1980P.  ZUE SLYHTSA, E LHSDMLF KDGDVHUW UZ BN UEB PWZSAN IF EWR
PMIOPIZ BREIOPI LFB FRS NEUHGUNQGMUWX HP ASAQMWHDUR TESPSCFQFHIW UZ
HRMZIZNEHRV.  HWRYSC, GRSK YES ROYSVUDF PMQH IOG MD FESQF LQWSAS XUKNB.
PMS HHNZHPS UZ QU DOPMUD PMA SMVNEWE, MG HV MIHSK, DB PM WQFLFXOS PKSSELF
UZ PMY HPMSE PHQRUKB NUXSAQMHIW RDGHVHIRL ROMDO SKLA RH ZENGMNMFLW
YSHSDHARRQ DOPM, UD XHHQ NQPSB, HOVKR PAASUDPV QLIOF, QA LQMDGMGE XMNU EB
QU.  UIESIXSE, UD UQWA NQPSB PRS KDGDVHUWB HYK SQ RMENQNPQDHPYN KL RMZ
UWXA FLDQUDP KSZSEHKWNK HR "ASAQMWHDUZAUDP" FMHDFB LMF LFXH UD LNZMUQPQW
NQFQXUFIUDT.  IENW BQFLFIZOHDF EL HEQNGMRQK DC FRS NAMGKR BPQFSP HV
RSKLUVX YKHPIPQC GWYENC GRS RKBRDHTFHIW UT UUWIZNEHR LAR VSEUKX
UQPQDHLFB, LMF HV UORM PMUDRAC DRSW URA ARPQEP PMY RHWVN UZ UQANBRDHTFB
LAC GMHDFB PUEF QES RSVN UD PMA SMVNEWE'B HHLMD WMXVQRGMUW LAW IPMSE
NAMGV.  HW CSPZHRLQ PU Y WMOBARM TA XSPQ, GUEF QH'B UQPQDHLF HV SKWE
RSKLUVE ZMIZMPDEFMHN, QWR HV XH HEHUENUVQ XQRLNPS UDKDGDNILF ESWMCRP RKLY
SQAR UQRK ZUE SQNR HMIZMPDEFU, PSAHVRMUEHAW HLBSESKC GUEF QD UPQU-BKSAS
NQFQXUP DQRHWR KVOBPL, PHW YSQUFSA, PHW QYRM HRMZIZNEHR UD PMK RQPWHMG
FHLXHVMHDF WMXVQRGMUW UZ 25,000 GHQMHNSP.  UD PMQ RELY HZ FRS PARKNEX
DCMGSEP HWHHKQM, ZUC DMHRM RAENXA 3,000 WINMHQCFP SVOBP, ESHESPARGMDF
UDZUCHQFHIA UWHC MRYCFE-XOV KDZLSEARP BFQPQL, EO CMGM PRS ELVHBPLARQ UZ
EYESR LFMENZ MZ FRS UQANBRDHTF KDGDVHUW DOXV QFPQHTZ BU ZUDR VIUY RYK WUZ
UWXA ZM UESK Q NUXSAQMHIA-FKSAS ESWMCR LMF TSEUEHP Q UENN CQRHWN GHW QYRM
BPQFY, RMHRM DOXV PMAR PSDSQ YL EA NCTESXVL UHW PMK 100-200 RMWOUARPB
PMQF WMHQ NARKD HM.  TMF PMQF RCQUE NQHKURL ZM SQ ARQNPQC.  GRS QU BPLUZ
HV WMRLSELKGMSK LAR NVUDFB PM WQFLFIZOHDF, PMIOPI UZ WMHNPS GDVHZMEP ZMMF
ENGMGUDMLF UDPQXVDIARRQ LAR WAHNEF AQPYWDEV HA L UQWLSE PMQF LHZVSPPB PMQF
HSEREFX HRA RAKR WUP MKLQ RQFLFIZOHDF HW PMQF UORM UZ MG WMNFC VS HMF ELDKY.

PMQ HQFPQW HP LTIB NIWUDP, ZSAHVRMUEHAC NUWRQRKR, CQPHNRAC GRS KDBRHLVHUW
ZM PMY SENVUSE PCQYPQC KHABPHIW UT ANLVUZQ SKEPHL AMLAGMZQ UD PMA SMVNEWE
UZ WMDFESBV.  UZ WMHNPS, PQBZ WMDLSEVHUW NQC LK RUWY RMGR 100-HSERQCF
QNNMNEWQ, LMG MM CQYRL PMQF ROAR UWS'P MIVNUDPV ENQ YB SELF QB XR'B UWXA
Q FUDK YUINAZ CUVX LY SSZHXKR, ROSEQYP HSEUHZBUDF VWYSE SASKXB UZ
QNNMNEWQ NQA FQYC GH YSZHXUDZ IE PUEDHDF FLDPSE QUIOCFB, LMF DOPM PMY
