HOCKEY remarked several large projects, particularly in Europe, for the
compilation of dictionaries, language studies, and language analysis, in
which people have built up archives of text and have begun to recognize
the need for an encoding format that will be reusable and multifunctional,
that can be used not just to print the text, which may be assumed to be a
byproduct of what one wants to do, but to structure it inside the computer
so that it can be searched, built into a Hypertext system, etc.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
WEIBEL * OCLC's approach to preparing electronic text:  retroconversion,
keying of texts, more automated ways of developing data * Project ADAPT
and the CORE Project * Intelligent character recognition does not exist *
Advantages of SGML * Data should be free of procedural markup;
descriptive markup strongly advocated * OCLC's interface illustrated *
Storage requirements and costs for putting a lot of information on line *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Stuart WEIBEL, senior research scientist, Online Computer Library Center,
Inc. (OCLC), described OCLC's approach to preparing electronic text.  He
argued that the electronic world into which we are moving must
accommodate not only the future but the past as well, and to some degree
even the present.  Thus, starting out at one end with retroconversion and
keying of texts, one would like to move toward much more automated ways
of developing data.

For example, Project ADAPT had to do with automatically converting
document images into a structured document database with OCR text as
indexing and also a little bit of automatic formatting and tagging of
that text.  The CORE project hosted by Cornell University, Bellcore,
OCLC, the American Chemical Society, and Chemical Abstracts, constitutes
WEIBEL's principal concern at the moment.  This project is an example of
converting text for which one already has a machine-readable version into
a format more suitable for electronic delivery and database searching.
(Since Michael LESK had previously described CORE, WEIBEL would say
little concerning it.)  Borrowing a chemical phrase, de novo synthesis,
WEIBEL cited the Online Journal of Current Clinical Trials as an example
of de novo electronic publishing, that is, a form in which the primary
form of the information is electronic.

Project ADAPT, then, which OCLC completed a couple of years ago and in
fact is about to resume, is a model in which one takes page images either
in paper or microfilm and converts them automatically to a searchable
electronic database, either on-line or local.  The operating assumption
is that accepting some blemishes in the data, especially for
retroconversion of materials, will make it possible to accomplish more.
Not enough money is available to support perfect conversion.

WEIBEL related several steps taken to perform image preprocessing
(processing on the image before performing optical character
recognition), as well as image postprocessing.  He denied the existence
of intelligent character recognition and asserted that what is wanted is
page recognition, which is a long way off.  OCLC has experimented with
merging of multiple optical character recognition systems that will
reduce errors from an unacceptable rate of 5 characters out of every
l,000 to an unacceptable rate of 2 characters out of every l,000, but it
is not good enough.  It will never be perfect.

Concerning the CORE Project, WEIBEL observed that Bellcore is taking the
topography files, extracting the page images, and converting those
topography files to SGML markup.  LESK hands that data off to OCLC, which
builds that data into a Newton database, the same system that underlies
the on-line system in virtually all of the reference products at OCLC.
The long-term goal is to make the systems interoperable so that not just
Bellcore's system and OCLC's system can access this data, but other
systems can as well, and the key to that is the Z39.50 common command
language and the full-text extension.  Z39.50 is fine for MARC records,
but is not enough to do it for full text (that is, make full texts
interoperable).

WEIBEL next outlined the critical role of SGML for a variety of purposes,
for example, as noted by HOCKEY, in the world of extremely large
databases, using highly structured data to perform field searches.
WEIBEL argued that by building the structure of the data in (i.e., the
structure of the data originally on a printed page), it becomes easy to
look at a journal article even if one cannot read the characters and know
where the title or author is, or what the sections of that document would be.
OCLC wants to make that structure explicit in the database, because it will
be important for retrieval purposes.

The second big advantage of SGML is that it gives one the ability to
build structure into the database that can be used for display purposes
without contaminating the data with instructions about how to format
things.  The distinction lies between procedural markup, which tells one
where to put dots on the page, and descriptive markup, which describes
the elements of a document.

WEIBEL believes that there should be no procedural markup in the data at
all, that the data should be completely unsullied by information about
italics or boldness.  That should be left up to the display device,
whether that display device is a page printer or a screen display device.
By keeping one's database free of that kind of contamination, one can
make decisions down the road, for example, reorganize the data in ways
that are not cramped by built-in notions of what should be italic and
what should be bold.  WEIBEL strongly advocated descriptive markup.  As
an example, he illustrated the index structure in the CORE data.  With
subsequent illustrated examples of markup, WEIBEL acknowledged the common
complaint that SGML is hard to read in its native form, although markup
decreases considerably once one gets into the body.  Without the markup,
however, one would not have the structure in the data.  One can pass
markup through a LaTeX processor and convert it relatively easily to a
printed version of the document.

WEIBEL next illustrated an extremely cluttered screen dump of OCLC's
system, in order to show as much as possible the inherent capability on
the screen.  (He noted parenthetically that he had become a supporter of
X-Windows as a result of the progress of the CORE Project.)  WEIBEL also
illustrated the two major parts of the interface:  l) a control box that
allows one to generate lists of items, which resembles a small table of
contents based on key words one wishes to search, and 2) a document
viewer, which is a separate process in and of itself.  He demonstrated
how to follow links through the electronic database simply by selecting
the appropriate button and bringing them up.  He also noted problems that
remain to be accommodated in the interface (e.g., as pointed out by LESK,
what happens when users do not click on the icon for the figure).

Given the constraints of time, WEIBEL omitted a large number of ancillary
items in order to say a few words concerning storage requirements and
what will be required to put a lot of things on line.  Since it is
extremely expensive to reconvert all of this data, especially if it is
just in paper form (and even if it is in electronic form in typesetting
tapes), he advocated building journals electronically from the start.  In
that case, if one only has text graphics and indexing (which is all that
one needs with de novo electronic publishing, because there is no need to
go back and look at bit-maps of pages), one can get 10,000 journals of
full text, or almost 6 million pages per year.  These pages can be put in
approximately 135 gigabytes of storage, which is not all that much,
WEIBEL said.  For twenty years, something less than three terabytes would
be required.  WEIBEL calculated the costs of storing this information as
follows:  If a gigabyte costs approximately $1,000, then a terabyte costs
approximately $1 million to buy in terms of hardware.  One also needs a
building to put it in and a staff like OCLC to handle that information.
So, to support a terabyte, multiply by five, which gives $5 million per
year for a supported terabyte of data.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Tapes saved by ACS are the typography files originally
supporting publication of the journal * Cost of building tagged text into
the database *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the question-and-answer period that followed WEIBEL's
presentation, these clarifications emerged.  The tapes saved by the
American Chemical Society are the typography files that originally
supported the publication of the journal.  Although they are not tagged
in SGML, they are tagged in very fine detail.  Every single sentence is
marked, all the registry numbers, all the publications issues, dates, and
volumes.  No cost figures on tagging material on a per-megabyte basis
were available.  Because ACS's typesetting system runs from tagged text,
there is no extra cost per article.  It was unknown what it costs ACS to
keyboard the tagged text rather than just keyboard the text in the
cheapest process.  In other words, since one intends to publish things
and will need to build tagged text into a typography system in any case,
if one does that in such a way that it can drive not only typography but
an electronic system (which is what ACS intends to do--move to SGML
publishing), the marginal cost is zero.  The marginal cost represents the
cost of building tagged text into the database, which is small.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
SPERBERG-McQUEEN * Distinction between texts and computers * Implications
of recognizing that all representation is encoding * Dealing with
complicated representations of text entails the need for a grammar of
documents * Variety of forms of formal grammars * Text as a bit-mapped
image does not represent a serious attempt to represent text in
electronic form * SGML, the TEI, document-type declarations, and the
reusability and longevity of data * TEI conformance explicitly allows
extension or modification of the TEI tag set * Administrative background
of the TEI * Several design goals for the TEI tag set * An absolutely
fixed requirement of the TEI Guidelines * Challenges the TEI has
attempted to face * Good texts not beyond economic feasibility * The
issue of reproducibility or processability * The issue of mages as
simulacra for the text redux * One's model of text determines what one's
software can do with a text and has economic consequences *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Prior to speaking about SGML and markup, Michael SPERBERG-McQUEEN, editor,
Text Encoding Initiative (TEI), University of Illinois-Chicago, first drew
a distinction between texts and computers:  Texts are abstract cultural
and linguistic objects while computers are complicated physical devices,
he said.  Abstract objects cannot be placed inside physical devices; with
computers one can only represent text and act upon those representations.

The recognition that all representation is encoding, SPERBERG-McQUEEN
argued, leads to the recognition of two things:  1) The topic description
for this session is slightly misleading, because there can be no discussion
of pros and cons of text-coding unless what one means is pros and cons of
working with text with computers.  2) No text can be represented in a
computer without some sort of encoding; images are one way of encoding text,
ASCII is another, SGML yet another.  There is no encoding without some
information loss, that is, there is no perfect reproduction of a text that
allows one to do away with the original.  Thus, the question becomes,
What is the most useful representation of text for a serious work?
This depends on what kind of serious work one is talking about.

The projects demonstrated the previous day all involved highly complex
information and fairly complex manipulation of the textual material.
In order to use that complicated information, one has to calculate it
slowly or manually and store the result.  It needs to be stored, therefore,
as part of one's representation of the text.  Thus, one needs to store the
structure in the text.  To deal with complicated representations of text,
one needs somehow to control the complexity of the representation of a text;
that means one needs a way of finding out whether a document and an
electronic representation of a document is legal or not; and that
means one needs a grammar of documents.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN discussed the variety of forms of formal grammars,
implicit and explicit, as applied to text, and their capabilities.  He
argued that these grammars correspond to different models of text that
different developers have.  For example, one implicit model of the text
is that there is no internal structure, but just one thing after another,
a few characters and then perhaps a start-title command, and then a few
more characters and an end-title command.  SPERBERG-McQUEEN also
distinguished several kinds of text that have a sort of hierarchical
structure that is not very well defined, which, typically, corresponds
to grammars that are not very well defined, as well as hierarchies that
are very well defined (e.g., the Thesaurus Linguae Graecae) and extremely
complicated things such as SGML, which handle strictly hierarchical data
very nicely.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN conceded that one other model not illustrated on his two
displays was the model of text as a bit-mapped image, an image of a page,
and confessed to having been converted to a limited extent by the
Workshop to the view that electronic images constitute a promising,
probably superior alternative to microfilming.  But he was not convinced
that electronic images represent a serious attempt to represent text in
electronic form.  Many of their problems stem from the fact that they are
not direct attempts to represent the text but attempts to represent the
page, thus making them representations of representations.

In this situation of increasingly complicated textual information and the
need to control that complexity in a useful way (which begs the question
of the need for good textual grammars), one has the introduction of SGML.
With SGML, one can develop specific document-type declarations
for specific text types or, as with the TEI, attempts to generate
general document-type declarations that can handle all sorts of text.
The TEI is an attempt to develop formats for text representation that
will ensure the kind of reusability and longevity of data discussed earlier.
It offers a way to stay alive in the state of permanent technological
revolution.

It has been a continuing challenge in the TEI to create document grammars
that do some work in controlling the complexity of the textual object but
also allowing one to represent the real text that one will find.
Fundamental to the notion of the TEI is that TEI conformance allows one
the ability to extend or modify the TEI tag set so that it fits the text
that one is attempting to represent.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN next outlined the administrative background of the TEI.
The TEI is an international project to develop and disseminate guidelines
for the encoding and interchange of machine-readable text.  It is
sponsored by the Association for Computers in the Humanities, the
Association for Computational Linguistics, and the Association for
Literary and Linguistic Computing.  Representatives of numerous other
professional societies sit on its advisory board.  The TEI has a number
of affiliated projects that have provided assistance by testing drafts of
the guidelines.

Among the design goals for the TEI tag set, the scheme first of all must
meet the needs of research, because the TEI came out of the research
community, which did not feel adequately served by existing tag sets.
The tag set must be extensive as well as compatible with existing and
emerging standards.  In 1990, version 1.0 of the Guidelines was released
(SPERBERG-McQUEEN illustrated their contents).

SPERBERG-McQUEEN noted that one problem besetting electronic text has
been the lack of adequate internal or external documentation for many
existing electronic texts.  The TEI guidelines as currently formulated
contain few fixed requirements, but one of them is this:  There must
always be a document header, an in-file SGML tag that provides
1) a bibliographic description of the electronic object one is talking
about (that is, who included it, when, what for, and under which title);
and 2) the copy text from which it was derived, if any.  If there was
no copy text or if the copy text is unknown, then one states as much.
Version 2.0 of the Guidelines was scheduled to be completed in fall 1992
and a revised third version is to be presented to the TEI advisory board
for its endorsement this coming winter.  The TEI itself exists to provide
a markup language, not a marked-up text.

Among the challenges the TEI has attempted to face is the need for a
markup language that will work for existing projects, that is, handle the
level of markup that people are using now to tag only chapter, section,
and paragraph divisions and not much else.  At the same time, such a
language also will be able to scale up gracefully to handle the highly
detailed markup which many people foresee as the future destination of
much electronic text, and which is not the future destination but the
present home of numerous electronic texts in specialized areas.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN dismissed the lowest-common-denominator approach as
unable to support the kind of applications that draw people who have
never been in the public library regularly before, and make them come
back.  He advocated more interesting text and more intelligent text.
Asserting that it is not beyond economic feasibility to have good texts,
SPERBERG-McQUEEN noted that the TEI Guidelines listing 200-odd tags
contains tags that one is expected to enter every time the relevant
textual feature occurs.  It contains all the tags that people need now,
and it is not expected that everyone will tag things in the same way.

The question of how people will tag the text is in large part a function
of their reaction to what SPERBERG-McQUEEN termed the issue of
reproducibility.  What one needs to be able to reproduce are the things
one wants to work with.  Perhaps a more useful concept than that of
reproducibility or recoverability is that of processability, that is,
what can one get from an electronic text without reading it again
in the original.  He illustrated this contention with a page from
Jan Comenius's bilingual Introduction to Latin.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN returned at length to the issue of images as simulacra
for the text, in order to reiterate his belief that in the long run more
than images of pages of particular editions of the text are needed,
because just as second-generation photocopies and second-generation
microfilm degenerate, so second-generation representations tend to
degenerate, and one tends to overstress some relatively trivial aspects
of the text such as its layout on the page, which is not always
significant, despite what the text critics might say, and slight other
pieces of information such as the very important lexical ties between the
English and Latin versions of Comenius's bilingual text, for example.
Moreover, in many crucial respects it is easy to fool oneself concerning
what a scanned image of the text will accomplish.  For example, in order
to study the transmission of texts, information concerning the text
carrier is necessary, which scanned images simply do not always handle.
Further, even the high-quality materials being produced at Cornell use
much of the information that one would need if studying those books as
physical objects.  It is a choice that has been made.  It is an arguably
justifiable choice, but one does not know what color those pen strokes in
the margin are or whether there was a stain on the page, because it has
been filtered out.  One does not know whether there were rips in the page
because they do not show up, and on a couple of the marginal marks one
loses half of the mark because the pen is very light and the scanner
failed to pick it up, and so what is clearly a checkmark in the margin of
the original becomes a little scoop in the margin of the facsimile.
Standard problems for facsimile editions, not new to electronics, but
also true of light-lens photography, and are remarked here because it is
important that we not fool ourselves that even if we produce a very nice
image of this page with good contrast, we are not replacing the
manuscript any more than microfilm has replaced the manuscript.

The TEI comes from the research community, where its first allegiance
lies, but it is not just an academic exercise.  It has relevance far
beyond those who spend all of their time studying text, because one's
model of text determines what one's software can do with a text.  Good
models lead to good software.  Bad models lead to bad software.  That has
economic consequences, and it is these economic consequences that have
led the European Community to help support the TEI, and that will lead,
SPERBERG-MQAMYSR UHZKR, XHHQ XHZFNYES SKWRHWB PH WQYVUPY PMQF UG PMQK
HEIXDKS PUZZCENY RMGU E SQZBSE UIRKX UZ FRS PQBZ PMQK NQC UYEQ Y VDXVUDZ.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
KDBRHLVHUW * HUFSMDQFHIRL UZ KDZLSEARG CGCL EWR FQP VQPX * HNK SKEPHL VPUB *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

NIDHDF PMK RHVNMBVHIC FUEF ZUXXURYR, VKSSELF KNKDGMUWLF ZHUDPB RYES UQRK.
RAMGRSN EEF (H.K., ELXHDMQFHIW UU LHQDHNQR FMLVUPRSEL) RHW NQXB (H.K.,
WMHTMFSE-KURKN KQBOHVHGMUW LAN VIZHVGMRB LHZSHWP) MEL K NMWOUARZ-BEZY
RKGUDUGMUW ZUN EWNHKCF PDYSV KNEUQ, LFPMIOPI PMQ PKH DOXV SQ QLSA ZM
UEWRSA PMQF.  IDSKC FMHB VFQPQ UZ LUULHDL EWR ELLHUHDF PMQF PMY
PQRMDUNQV-UIOCWLF HEIWMNSEL EWR PMQ RIUHQCNUKX SARWIEP RKDMRK ZM HLQ PRS
MZRSC PYW ZQHSB, PRSA LD URLGMFMGMUW VUEQ PMA SMVNEWE UZ WMDFESBV, ROMDO
UHPIP CQRKHSK LFX UZ FRSHD FHLXMDQFHIRL, YWNFR IKLQ PM XQ YLXQ PI MLANVY
PMESK RUGPAESCF ZQHSX HG NMWOUARG CAPUDMGHIRL LAC GKF PSPB LAC VQ YLXQ PW
KDBPUDFIHVU EUIDF PMQH.

UZGURQ WINMHQCF ENRMMGQRFMES (IWE) UEL XHHQ KNLKCFKFSP PMQF UFWY PNIU MGB
GMPIF ZMWHL UW UZGURQ WINMHQCFL EWR NBQYC RHDQRGMUWL PHW HUFSQHARFQGMUW.
UORM UZ PMY HNK BPLANKCR HV QYVHSE ZM ESKN LAR NSAENSE QF GUEPP CQYKDDF
PMLA PMS PTIX BFQWRENR, DMHRM HV YSPCQHASK ZARSELF.  ROQF PMQF HQLAV HB
PMQF UG UWY RLAPB ZM HLK PNEHRMDV HC FUGU LWR IWY, URA HV BPMNQ, VQRLNPS
IWK NAPUDSP PDEFMHRB ZUCHQFX RMHSA GMZL WISP WUZ, CRSESEL VPUB LEEX PMY
YWNSK DL RMZ NYMGUDP ZHW PMHV YWDE PDIOT FM WESQFQ YWUPMSE PDEFMHRB ZUCHQF.
ROQF HV RAKRKR HV LA QLUVMGQ ZI OPS ROQFKSSE PDEFMHRB ZUCHQF UWY RLAPB.

PMQ PKH HEIXDKSP E LMWEQZ BUEF QXVWYX HRA ZM WMWLQRZ BRS VPUB WINMHQCF ZM
PMK PNEHRMDB.  PRS WUFQGMUW PMQF PMK PNEHRMDL EES UD HV NBQYNSK Y RMIHRQ
PMQF UWA RYSRV ZM UQEQ LQPSW IR USE HW MHP SDLHDUWHQCF, LAC GUEG MX HRA
KNLKCFKFS.  PTIV UB XSPB HKPLFIULAUKNQV UA LZBQHTFUDP FI WAPUDA PHWUQPB
ZUN EXV VDWRX HG UAUHWUQGMUW, PMIOPI UIES HQFKXUUQDUQNLF UD QFPQHTGMDF ZM
WMSKN EXV XHCPX HG NMWOUARPB.  PMY HPMSE KNLKCFKFK HB PUEZ BRS UIRKX UZ
PQBZ ESHESPARPQC VE XTIV UB VHUFSK YW UCRSE UZ UQFDMGINS EMDRSN EWR UIES
UFYSMVSA PMLA PMQ HIWAS UZ PQBZ UZPAESC VX WNK.  XMPM UZPAE RHKNECNMHNQX
BPNHQMHNSP, LMP BTIS NQRIZDUPYB PUEZ BRS MHSEENRMMDLF UIRKX UZ FRS PQBZ
PMQF UWK HB XWZVDDF QF UQA WMZ UESK SQAR UD PMQ HUDRV UZ PMK RSPDIRAEP,
ROSEQYX HNK WISP WUZ.

IWK UL RMZ ESLFXA KUUHDF ZUC PRS VDWR UZ WINMHQCF PMQF PMQ PKH NYCFB PW
ARWMHTELB.  PRS PQM DLA UEWRSA PMQ EUDW IT UQFSEUKX UNK UEL, EX RASF LL E
VHFDUGMDLAFBQ XWHKNSE NEDFY HT UQFSEUKX.  UNK PSQHB PM XK SSEQ OMNO
ZUNMPSW IW UZLMDK RMWOUARPB, ROMDM HX RUEG MP BFQCPKR IOM TKHDF NQXVKR--
UZGURQ WINMHQCF ENRMMGQRFMES.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
NQFLFNNQ * PQBZ-ARWMKDDF PNIU E FMLVUPRSE'P HSEPHQRGMSK *
ESPHUWVHVMVUGMSP UZ E FMLVUPRSE * ESHEIWMNGMUW UZ UHFDS'P FLGMR LSEHKB
ROUXQ YWR WMHTSAPQ DOPM VPUB FQPV LQPSW IR FSERQDGKR RAKR LAR KSZQRPQW
HLS * HENGMNMFLC RQRHVHIRL ENHVUDP ZWHC MRS PKRANEV NQRHVHIC FH ZWHNIRQ
LAR GMLVUPR FSW *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

PMA PUDLF PHQYEQD HC FMHB VSPVHUW, SEMD NQFLFNNQ, GDRQ HESPDKARZ,
RMKNYXDQ-RSLFQK, UDR., BZHEQ PNIU PMS HSEPHQRGMSK UZ E FMLVUPRSE ES
PQBZ-ARWMKDDF, NEPMSE PMLA EL UWQ ANLVUGUKR ZM KDBRHLB HQPMIRV UZ
ARWMKDDF NKFQ, LAW ILBSESKC GUEZ BRS HESPARPQEP VHZBUDI DC FRS WHIU,
ROQPRSC PRSE OKN RMHXAR ZM HW WUZ, CSEQ YQMUDF KP HMLVUPRSEB:  HYEUDZ
RMIHRQV, PQFRSDHDF NKFQ, FKPMSEUDI DAUHWUQGMUW, LAC IYEUDF KBVSPBHARPB.
NQFLFNNQ UZPAESC GRS UECR-YWW NUWGDQMHIC FUEG MR FMLVUPRUDI GSEA XENPK
PQBZ GUSAB (VMNU EP HVN), UWQ RLAWUF QXIDK UQVDDF HSEPUWLF HOKIHQCFX HZ
EFHEHZDHQFARSPL EWR BPNHQMHNY.

UD NQFLFNNQ'B SHKR, YWNIWUDI KQRHVHIRL BPQH PNIU HEHID HINTIARPB.  ZCW
WUGMUWP RKLQ SQRIUQ YVOIUL PHW MHU HC FRS WMRLDKSEQFHIW UZ LMFHNS PIOCNSP
ZUE SSAQMWHDUR TMLVUNQGMUW:  1) ASQRPCUWMD PQBZ FHLXHVMHDF HV EL HSEPUWLF
EL LAX WPMSE VDWR UZ FHLXHVMHDF, LAC KHABPHIRL UZ UG LAR IWY ZM ARWMRK
PMK RQFY LES VHHTXA Q NUWPSAMARRQ UZ PMQF HEHIC RQRHVHIA;  2) LXV
HSEPUWLF RKDMVHUWL EES HZAR ZM NCMGMDHVO, CMHRM HV NAKLIHNKLXY.

NQFLFNNQ ESRSENPSR IHV WHSA EL E FMLVUPRSE HW, SQZBSE, EL LA UDPQCHKRUKWE
SQZCYSW DUEG MB SHKRYN KL E XHNAK DRKY LWR PMS HYHFSY RMI YWNFC IYEA HPS
UZ MG.  GUWRUDP FRS PHQRUKVUBP ZM KNGDPS UD PMHV HEMWSPV HB PRS WMES UZ
PMQF UNWNGMUW.  PMS HMLVUPRSE UOBP UIDUZMN EWR MOP FRS GURA VURA SQZCYSW
IDGDDF HLSEX RUEZ BRSX YLAF QWR LHZVSPGMDF ROQF PMQK UHPIF CYSW.  IRA
ESPHUWVHVMVUZQ UZ E FMLVUPRSE HV ZM ESHESPARZ BRS RKVHESX HP LRMUXENL EWR
ESPSENRM VUSCENUKRL EL HZZHPSC GM XNFSUQYRKNVA ZHWDMDF PMQH UDZM ENQYB
PMQK YWNFR WMZ RMWZPS ZM ARPQW.

NQFLFNNQ VUEQRAC GRS AMSPGMUWB LKHDF NEHVKR ZMNKK YXMMF NKFQ BPNHQMHNY
LAR VFQWRENRV ZM PMK RQRHVHIRL ULRQC VQ ZRS QLSQ UHFDS RHUPSFU NIDHDF
HEIWMNGMUW UZ PMS HQFWHXUIDE LSEHKV HC FRS UHR-WUDQPYSCFM RARFMWE.
RMKNYXDQ-RSLFQK'V RQRHVHIC FH WSHWHNIRQ UHFDS'P FLGMR LSEHKX RMISA LAW
WMHTSAPQ DOPM VPUB FQPV NYL EXBM XELKR HFUW E FSERQDGKR RAKR LAN KW
YSHSQMKR HLK.  HC FRS LEHQ NYQ ZUEM CDIRA'X RHWQ DQUQ PM XA PEN UIES PMLA
E LHUFSS RLACVWZA GHW NBSEMDP, HVN HV LFESKNA ZEN UIES PMLA K NQFQLELY
ZUC PRSUXIZUKRL.  MG HV Q LKRWHDQ XHHNRQ ZUC PRS BPINX WZ NSPPQCW
DMGDVUFYGMUW, NQFLFNNQ ELPSCPKR.

UD ESFKCR ZM PMK RQRHVHIC FH ZWHNIRQ LAR GMLVUPR FSC, GRS KRMGHWUKX LUYCR
UZPAESW VHDQRG MINTIARPB UW PMQ AHABPHIW UU LZSWHHEUKPQRABV UZ PMSPY
PQBZL PHW WMDLSEVHUW, PMKHE SWNIWUDF KWR PMKHC RHVPCMVMFHIA, LWR
WMWNFNRKC GUEZ BRS SQBP ZHBVMVSA HEIHQRZ CEL UWQ PUEF QXIDKKR IXSEZ
UDPCHLHIRL HW YSNBHLHIRL UD XH HUZHCPLAF Q ESXHHNRQ.  PMHL, PMK PARSELF
RKDMVHUW ZM PCLABHMG PMY HDHIDALB NUXSAQMHIA LB RSAENXA EL ZHBVMVSA DOPM
PMY RDKSPF THXVHLXQ YSKANSP ZUN HPS SAC GW ZPMSE RKDMVHUWB:  1) PH YWNIWY
PMK RQFY UC WMZ, VPUB HW WUZ, BKH HW WUF.  QFKUD, PMY SSZQRPQN IPSW
WMOBNAMGK YBVSEPQC GRS RAKR ZUC WHWUQGMSK FQZVUDP VPCMNFMESX HG UHTHWFQCF
MOUQDUGMSP PQBZL, EWR PMQ PKH PSQHKR PMQ HHXF QZSWHHEUKPQ BPNHQMHNA PHW
PMQF FHEHHXS.  ESPQYCNU SMVNEDHLAX, RMI ENQ PNEUDKR ZM GDYR PMA SENPKW
HUFEQM UZ ASQRPCUWMD PQBZ XHHNRQX HW 80 UW 90 HC 100 RMWZMNEX
KDBRHGVURAB, XIONVK YZSWHSKC GRS RKDMVHUW ZM UDNBINQ PKFIDDF.  PMQK PSY
ROQF HV WMUHDF SQZBSE PMLA PMS PHSDMLFHVZ CMI HV WMHTSAPQXA ZUNMPSW IW
UWY SKDGMUW UZ QUSCHXS'P RK LAHUY, LWR PMQK LFXH NARKEPFQWR PMQF PMY
ZHPQCFUKF NPSP SBWYSR GESPSCF YSHSQMQFHIRL.  2) ROQF DOXV SQ FQZVKR LAW
ROQF DOXV WUZ.  MWNQ YFKUD, PMQ SUYCR ESLFOGKR PMQF UWQ HHLZ BKF PMY
MXGDIOB.  LMF UD WU NYE XMINFW IRA QFPQHTZ BI HRKCFUGQ ZREIOPI ARWMKDDF
BRRSHQP SSKWE VHDFSA KDBRESPQ ENQY UZ Q FYSZ BUEM CDIMP XHHQNKQ XY
PSENRMKR.  PMQF NYL EWUPMSE RKDMVHUW.  PSENRMUDT VK Y WMFNUC ANCTSE, LA
LNPMHW, Y NHWN, K XIFNHQ, HSCHMGGMDF WMCTUDQFHIR LQYCNRSL, EWR FQZVUDZ
WUFQGMUWB VYSHQN VIZMDLF RMIHRQL EB RHWY SSAHQCFP.  3) RWY WISP UWQ HYEY
PMK RQFY LLKUVQLSA?  GMKHDF MG ZM Q NR-CIU KRMGHIW NESQFSP VUUHFQGMUWB,
LMF Q UQFDQPMD FQHS GUSA PMQF HV SKWE FLDPK, HL EWBIUFEDUKR XQ PMY
ARWMKDDF PHQRUGMDQFHIRL, LAC GUEF QXVWYX HRA ZM UQEQ XUNQB UIWUGMDQFHIRL
LFXH LFXURX UWQ PI HWNHWZHNEPQ LAQ WUEDFSP UWQ HYK RKVHES DOPMUD PMY
XMNARV UZ HEDGQFS ESPQYCNM, PMIIFR SSZHWGMDF FQP ZUVSP PNIU Q NR-CIU
WMNFR VSESK HOBP EL RYXV.  VHWNA RW ZRA UW PMQ SUYCR WMNFR GHXVHLXX
LAGMDMFEPQ QYRM LAR KSKWE NYK OW DMHRM E LRMUXEN UHPIM QMIHXQ PI UUDY
PMHV NKFQ LQDA, MG NYV RQRDKKR ZM LEGMLPQ ZRS LQVHRB LAC IYES PIUY
HEIXHVHIRL ZUC DUEM CDIMP WMHQ.  4) WUZ BH YWNIWQ PRS NKFQLQPS YWNFR CMX
MG UZ PMK HCFSERMLAPKQLUVMGK YWR ZHCPQLUVMGQ ZRSPS HUZHCPLAZ BYSPB PRIOVN
QNWMOBIWQFA.  PHW NQFLFNNQ, PMY SBZARVHSK HZGMUWP HESPSCFKR XQ UNXV-PQBZ
PSENRMUDP DQAOHES NQES UD PQBZ PSSAQMHIA LWR BPWHDFXA LHZSHWP QWNIWUDZ IZ
NKFQ ZM ULDMVUFQPQ PMY RDKSPF THXVHLXS PQYCNR PPCQFKPHKB.  LQPPQW
XHZFNYES NQA LXNYKB LQ RESQFKR, LMP BOUUIDUDF PMS ESPIOCNSP, PMS HYHFSY,
LAC GRS ARSEZK ZM ESWMDLSEZ BRS PQBZ HV LAMZRSC HQFPQW.

FSK DB LKHDF ARWMRKR, NEFFMESN, KWR KDBPDHLMPQC, VQRLNPS ZM
RMKNYXDQ-RSLFQK LAC GRS XMENK DZ MZLSEB PRS DORKBP ZHBVMVSA ENNEX WZ
UNFMES ESPSENRM EFFSMDQFHIRL PMQF NQC LS PYSC FIWYK.  NQFLFNNQ WMWNFNRKW
XQ HNIDDF PMY SWNIWUDZ IU LXV HUZHCPLAZ BYSP BIOCNSP UD ROQFKSSE NYX
PSQHB HHXF QZSWHHEUKPQ LAW VHNQLSA QF PMQ PHUY, RMGMIMF LXLARMUDF KZ BRS
PMIOPIZ BUEZ MRA'X RHWQ IYK ESAMHDY SHQWRQFHID UC FRS UNFMES.  (PMHL,
RMKNYXDQ-RSLFQK HEIWMNKR K LSEA XENPK MOUQDUGMSP PQBZ NKFQLQPS SQZUES PMY
GUALS NASQYPS UZ PMQ PKH FIDKASUDSP.)

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
KDBRHLVHUW * NCQYGMDF PQBZX RMGM UENAIF EKGMWQFKR * PCARRV UD ARWMKDDF *
PMQ PKH LAC GRS HVLHY HG UCFSERMLAPKQLUVMGX WP LFQWRENRV * Y
UHBRUWRQTFHIW NUWRQCWUDP FRS PQO * VHTVUNQGMUWL PHW LA UDBPMGMFHIA FDVY
BN UD PMY SSKCF PMQF Q UNFGMFSMDMGX WG NGCV RKSASHZP * HWHNIDMDF HUKFSP
EL L UHDBP BPSH ZMNYCRP HHXVHLXQ RUWSKEPHIC FU ZNFB FYSZ BREIOPI
RMENQNPQW SQRIZDUGMUW * PMQ YEF FQP VQPL EL E WMOBUW BPENGMDF ZHUDF QWR
PMA RYSN GHW NQMFHIW *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

MIDQQK HEAPQNKR PMK RHVNMBVHIC FUEF ZUXXURYR DMGR PKSSELF WMOBARPB UD
ULXIW HT NESQFUDP FYSPB DOPM UQDEHF LAW IC FESWRV HR AWNIWUDI.  DC FRS
UNFMES, ROAR UQWA UIES PQBZL EES KLKUFLLXA PHW UW-VURA PSENRMUDP, DQYX
HEMXSAHB UD GUWRUDZ DUEG MX RLAPQR DUVV NKSASHZ, UG UWK HL PQNKR DOPM
UHXVHIRL UZ YWCRX HG NQFK.  UZ BRSESZUES SQWMHQV HHTHWFQCF ZM WMRLDKSE
FHZBUDT IENAIG HC FYSPB ZM RSSF PSENRMSEP RIUK HW UC FRS QNFMLF PMUDPV
PMQK DOPR ZM ESPCHKSK.  LKDHIOL EZSWHQNRSB PH WAPUDUDP DQPDHKSLF HQPMIWB
ZMNYCR PMHV ARK DWNFNRK LMUVKDDF UW Q NIUFHPQD SSEVHUW UZ K NMDGMUWENX
LAN VQPGMDF PMQ RIUFHPQN SWZA IZ RHWRV UD MG ZM MXFQUD UIES UDZUCHQFHIW
QLIOZ BRS PSUQCFMD BPNHQMHNY HE PQHLAGMN THKVN UZ Y NHWK, DPB PDQUUQGMNQX
BPNHQMHNQ, YWR XECFQNGMR BPCMNFMES.

MIDQQK WMOBARPQW IC FRS HESPARG QYSD UCFSESPG MC FRS ARWMKDDF YWNSW
UD NCQYGMDF:  1) UQRMUDS-EQYNKLXK SSEVHUWX HG NMDGMUWENHKB PUEM QLA SQ
UDMGUKXVQ ZKFPKK DR LTIX, NMHRM IDSKL E BPNHQMHNQ PM ZRS KDQMHIALWE ARPCX;
PMSPY SCFDHSP NQC FRSC LQ RUWSKCPKR UDZM Q UHWS EDIDK HW MZRSCDHVY
KDZLSEARG CQFQLELS PPCMNFMES UDVHRK PMQ RIUFHPQC, DMHRM NQC LQ PESQFKR EL
K NAWQUMD ZMUX ZUE PQYCNMHDF HQRMLAHVHB; 2) FLDPQ SIWHKX HZ FYSZ BH XFMWK
PMA SLAFIKFK.  HW UCRSE ZM UDWMEHHWQFQ HHWS PHZMHBPMDQFKR HQRMLAHVHB,
UIES QLIOP MWY YWCRB LSRKLA RYSRV ZM SQ ADWYW, DMHRM NQC LA SQYCWKR UD
FECP PNIU UDZUCHQFHID UW RMDGMUWENHKP.  RWYKSSE, PMA SELZ BAR KQENP RKLY
PSAR UORM UDPQESBP UD BPINKODF PMS PPCMNFMES UZ HEUDPQW VMDGMUWENHKB
WMDLSEPQK DCFM WIUFHPQW-SQYNKLXA PHWC.  MRS UDZUCHQFHIW URA RKDHSKL EXMMF
UQWA YWCRL PWHC MMIPS HV UWXA FECPUKX, URA HW ZCI WAPUDMGHIRL UZ PMY
WMOBUW HW PMA HLHLF HQLAUDZ IU L YWCR, LAC GRSW LOUSEIOV RAPUDMGHIRL UZ
NAHLNLF NLEPKV.  HZ FRS WMHTMFSE HV HLUDF K KDQMHIALWE ZM RSSF ESPCHKSK
YWCRV HA L PQBZ, MG RAKRB HMNM UHWK HAUHWUQGMUW QLIOZ BRS WMOBUW HLKFSP,
SQNQHLQ PMIPS ENQ PRS UWSP PMQF MWNMW HSKN EWR IXSE KFKUR.  UARRQ PMY
NMWSARG MCFSESPG MW RKSASHZUDF VENPK XMKDSP UZ PQBZ UD WMHTMFSE-ESKNQLSA
ZUCH UD HWRKC PH XFMWK PMA SLAFIKFS.  PKSSELF HEIHQRPB ENY SDFKFKR UD
WMHTUVUDP, ZHW YSQUFSQ, 100 HUVVUUW YWCRP. RMWEQK WSPNCMVKR UWY RMGO
ROMDR PRS NYL EBVMWUKPQC VDHAPXA QF WZZUCR NADGSEVHZQ UDXIXSUDZ
WMHTUVQFHIW UT 100 UUVVUUW YWCRX HT LDHGMPR ARFVHVU:  EXMMF 10 HSCNARZ MZ
PMQF DOXV WMCFKUW RQPKUSAN VUDFIHVGMQ MKFIDDF ARWMRKK DR LTIV; UZ CUVX
UESK YWCR NBELB PKFIDDFX, RMGO RHWRV DKARGMGUKR EL WUNAB, SSELB,
KNHKQMDGSP, HW MZRSE HENPB UZ PHYSRM.  PMHV FQZVUDT DLA PMAR SQ HLKR XQ
HEIZNEHB ROMDO RUVX LKPUD ZM SAENA L VMM CHWQ YXMMF PMS PPCMNFMES UZ PMY
FLDFNLPK, LAC GRSW, NLA ZI ZM FQT IHWQ PYSZ.
