HOCKEY said that the more that is tagged accurately, the more one can
refine the tagging process and thus the bigger body of text one can build
up with linguistic tagging incorporated into it.  Hence, the more tagging
or annotation there is in the text, the more one may begin to learn about
language and the more it will help accomplish more intelligent OCR.  She
recommended the development of software tools that will help one begin to
understand more about a text, which can then be applied to scanning
images of that text in that format and to using more intelligence to help
one interpret or understand the text.

HOCKEY posited the need to think about common methods of text-encoding
for a long time to come, because building these large bodies of text is
extremely expensive and will only be done once.

In the more general discussion on approaches to encoding that followed,
these points were made:

BESSER identified the underlying problem with standards that all have to
struggle with in adopting a standard, namely, the tension between a very
highly defined standard that is very interchangeable but does not work
for everyone because something is lacking, and a standard that is less
defined, more open, more adaptable, but less interchangeable.  Contending
that the way in which people use SGML is not sufficiently defined, BESSER
wondered 1) if people resist the TEI because they think it is too defined
in certain things they do not fit into, and 2) how progress with
interchangeability can be made without frightening people away.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN replied that the published drafts of the TEI had met
with surprisingly little objection on the grounds that they do not allow
one to handle X or Y or Z.  Particular concerns of the affiliated
projects have led, in practice, to discussions of how extensions are to
be made; the primary concern of any project has to be how it can be
represented locally, thus making interchange secondary.  The TEI has
received much criticism based on the notion that everything in it is
required or even recommended, which, as it happens, is a misconception
from the beginning,   because none of it is required and very little is
actually actively recommended for all cases, except that one document
one's source.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN agreed with BESSER about this trade-off:  all the
projects in a set of twenty TEI-conformant projects will not necessarily
tag the material in the same way.  One result of the TEI will be that the
easiest problems will be solved--those dealing with the external form of
the information; but the problem that is hardest in interchange is that
one is not encoding what another wants, and vice versa.  Thus, after
the adoption of a common notation, the differences in the underlying
conceptions of what is interesting about texts become more visible.
The success of a standard like the TEI will lie in the ability of
the recipient of interchanged texts to use some of what it contains
and to add the information that was not encoded that one wants, in a
layered way, so that texts can be gradually enriched and one does not
have to put in everything all at once.  Hence, having a well-behaved
markup scheme is important.

STEVENS followed up on the paradoxical analogy that BESSER alluded to in
the example of the MARC records, namely, the formats that are the same
except that they are different.  STEVENS drew a parallel between
document-type definitions and MARC records for books and serials and maps,
where one has a tagging structure and there is a text-interchange.
STEVENS opined that the producers of the information will set the terms
for the standard (i.e., develop document-type definitions for the users
of their products), creating a situation that will be problematical for
an institution like the Library of Congress, which will have to deal with
the DTDs in the event that a multiplicity of them develops.  Thus,
numerous people are seeking a standard but cannot find the tag set that
will be acceptable to them and their clients.  SPERBERG-McQUEEN agreed
with this view, and said that the situation was in a way worse:  attempting
to unify arbitrary DTDs resembled attempting to unify a MARC record with a
bibliographic record done according to the Prussian instructions.
According to STEVENS, this situation occurred very early in the process.

WATERS recalled from early discussions on Project Open Book the concern
of many people that merely by producing images, POB was not really
enhancing intellectual access to the material.  Nevertheless, not wishing
to overemphasize the opposition between imaging and full text, WATERS
stated that POB views getting the images as a first step toward possibly
converting to full text through character recognition, if the technology
is appropriate.  WATERS also emphasized that encoding is involved even
with a set of images.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN agreed with WATERS that one can create an SGML document
consisting wholly of images.  At first sight, organizing graphic images
with an SGML document may not seem to offer great advantages, but the
advantages of the scheme WATERS described would be precisely that
ability to move into something that is more of a multimedia document:
a combination of transcribed text and page images.  WEIBEL concurred in
this judgment, offering evidence from Project ADAPT, where a page is
divided into text elements and graphic elements, and in fact the text
elements are organized by columns and lines.  These lines may be used as
the basis for distributing documents in a network environment.  As one
develops software intelligent enough to recognize what those elements
are, it makes sense to apply SGML to an image initially, that may, in
fact, ultimately become more and more text, either through OCR or edited
OCR or even just through keying.  For WATERS, the labor of composing the
document and saying this set of documents or this set of images belongs
to this document constitutes a significant investment.

WEIBEL also made the point that the AAP tag sets, while not excessively
prescriptive, offer a common starting point; they do not define the
structure of the documents, though.  They have some recommendations about
DTDs one could use as examples, but they do just suggest tag sets.   For
example, the CORE project attempts to use the AAP markup as much as
possible, but there are clearly areas where structure must be added.
That in no way contradicts the use of AAP tag sets.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN noted that the TEI prepared a long working paper early
on about the AAP tag set and what it lacked that the TEI thought it
needed, and a fairly long critique of the naming conventions, which has
led to a very different style of naming in the TEI.  He stressed the
importance of the opposition between prescriptive markup, the kind that a
publisher or anybody can do when producing documents de novo, and
descriptive markup, in which one has to take what the text carrier
provides.  In these particular tag sets it is easy to overemphasize this
opposition, because the AAP tag set is extremely flexible.  Even if one
just used the DTDs, they allow almost anything to appear almost anywhere.

                                 ******

SESSION VI.  COPYRIGHT ISSUES

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
PETERS * Several cautions concerning copyright in an electronic
environment * Review of copyright law in the United States * The notion
of the public good and the desirability of incentives to promote it *
What copyright protects * Works not protected by copyright * The rights
of copyright holders * Publishers' concerns in today's electronic
environment * Compulsory licenses * The price of copyright in a digital
medium and the need for cooperation * Additional clarifications *  Rough
justice oftentimes the outcome in numerous copyright matters * Copyright
in an electronic society * Copyright law always only sets up the
boundaries; anything can be changed by contract *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Marybeth PETERS, policy planning adviser to the Register of Copyrights,
Library of Congress,   made several general comments and then opened the
floor to discussion of subjects of interest to the audience.

Having attended several sessions in an effort to gain a sense of what
people did and where copyright would affect their lives, PETERS expressed
the following cautions:

     * If one takes and converts materials and puts them in new forms,
     then, from a copyright point of view, one is creating something and
     will receive some rights.

     * However, if what one is converting already exists, a question
     immediately arises about the status of the materials in question.

     * Putting something in the public domain in the United States offers
     some freedom from anxiety, but distributing it throughout the world
     on a network is another matter, even if one has put it in the public
     domain in the United States.  Re foreign laws, very frequently a
     work can be in the public domain in the United States but protected
     in other countries.  Thus, one must consider all of the places a
     work may reach, lest one unwittingly become liable to being faced
     with a suit for copyright infringement, or at least a letter
     demanding discussion of what one is doing.

PETERS reviewed copyright law in the United States.  The U.S.
Constitution effectively states that Congress has the power to enact
copyright laws for two purposes:  1) to encourage the creation and
dissemination of intellectual works for the good of society as a whole;
and, significantly, 2) to give creators and those who package and
disseminate materials the economic rewards that are due them.

Congress strives to strike a balance, which at times can become an
emotional issue.  The United States has never accepted the notion of the
natural right of an author so much as it has accepted the notion of the
public good and the desirability of incentives to promote it.  This state
of affairs, however, has created strains on the international level and
is the reason for several of the differences in the laws that we have.
Today the United States protects almost every kind of work that can be
called an expression of an author.  The standard for gaining copyright
protection is simply originality.  This is a low standard and means that
a work is not copied from something else, as well as shows a certain
minimal amount of authorship.  One can also acquire copyright protection
for making a new version of preexisting material, provided it manifests
some spark of creativity.

However, copyright does not protect ideas, methods, systems--only the way
that one expresses those things.  Nor does copyright protect anything
that is mechanical, anything that does not involve choice, or criteria
concerning whether or not one should do a thing.  For example, the
results of a process called declicking, in which one mechanically removes
impure sounds from old recordings, are not copyrightable.  On the other
hand, the choice to record a song digitally and to increase the sound of
violins or to bring up the tympani constitutes the results of conversion
that are copyrightable.  Moreover, if a work is protected by copyright in
the United States, one generally needs the permission of the copyright
owner to convert it.  Normally, who will own the new--that is, converted-
-material is a matter of contract.  In the absence of a contract, the
person who creates the new material is the author and owner.  But people
do not generally think about the copyright implications until after the
fact.  PETERS stressed the need when dealing with copyrighted works to
think about copyright in advance.  One's bargaining power is much greater
up front than it is down the road.

PETERS next discussed works not protected by copyright, for example, any
work done by a federal employee as part of his or her official duties is
in the public domain in the United States.  The issue is not wholly free
of doubt concerning whether or not the work is in the public domain
outside the United States.  Other materials in the public domain include:
any works published more than seventy-five years ago, and any work
published in the United States more than twenty-eight years ago, whose
copyright was not renewed.  In talking about the new technology and
putting material in a digital form to send all over the world, PETERS
cautioned, one must keep in mind that while the rights may not be an
issue in the United States, they may be in different parts of the world,
where most countries previously employed a copyright term of the life of
the author plus fifty years.

PETERS next reviewed the economics of copyright holding.  Simply,
economic rights are the rights to control the reproduction of a work in
any form.  They belong to the author, or in the case of a work made for
hire, the employer.  The second right, which is critical to conversion,
is the right to change a work.  The right to make new versions is perhaps
one of the most significant rights of authors, particularly in an
electronic world.  The third right is the right to publish the work and
the right to disseminate it, something that everyone who deals in an
electronic medium needs to know.  The basic rule is if a copy is sold,
all rights of distribution are extinguished with the sale of that copy.
The key is that it must be sold.  A number of companies overcome this
obstacle by leasing or renting their product.  These companies argue that
if the material is rented or leased and not sold, they control the uses
of a work.  The fourth right, and one very important in a digital world,
is a right of public performance, which means the right to show the work
sequentially.  For example, copyright owners control the showing of a
CD-ROM product in a public place such as a public library.  The reverse
side of public performance is something called the right of public
display.  Moral rights also exist, which at the federal level apply only
to very limited visual works of art, but in theory may apply under
contract and other principles.  Moral rights may include the right of an
author to have his or her name on a work, the right of attribution, and
the right to object to distortion or mutilation--the right of integrity.

The way copyright law is worded gives much latitude to activities such as
preservation; to use of material for scholarly and research purposes when
the user does not make multiple copies; and to the generation of
facsimile copies of unpublished works by libraries for themselves and
other libraries.  But the law does not allow anyone to become the
distributor of the product for the entire world.  In today's electronic
environment, publishers are extremely concerned that the entire world is
networked and can obtain the information desired from a single copy in a
single library.  Hence, if there is to be only one sale, which publishers
may choose to live with, they will obtain their money in other ways, for
example, from access and use.  Hence, the development of site licenses
and other kinds of agreements to cover what publishers believe they
should be compensated for.  Any solution that the United States takes
today has to consider the international arena.

Noting that the United States is a member of the Berne Convention and
subscribes to its provisions, PETERS described the permissions process.
She also defined compulsory licenses.  A compulsory license, of which the
United States has had a few, builds into the law the right to use a work
subject to certain terms and conditions.  In the international arena,
however, the ability to use compulsory licenses is extremely limited.
Thus, clearinghouses and other collectives comprise one option that has
succeeded in providing for use of a work.  Often overlooked when one
begins to use copyrighted material and put products together is how
expensive the permissions process and managing it is.  According to
PETERS, the price of copyright in a digital medium, whatever solution is
worked out, will include managing and assembling the database.  She
strongly recommended that publishers and librarians or people with
various backgrounds cooperate to work out administratively feasible
systems, in order to produce better results.

In the lengthy question-and-answer period that followed PETERS's
presentation, the following points emerged:

     * The Copyright Office maintains that anything mechanical and
     totally exhaustive probably is not protected.  In the event that
     what an individual did in developing potentially copyrightable
     material is not understood, the Copyright Office will ask about the
     creative choices the applicant chose to make or not to make.  As a
     practical matter, if one believes she or he has made enough of those
     choices, that person has a right to assert a copyright and someone
     else must assert that the work is not copyrightable.  The more
     mechanical, the more automatic, a thing is, the less likely it is to
     be copyrightable.

     * Nearly all photographs are deemed to be copyrightable, but no one
     worries about them much, because everyone is free to take the same
     image.  Thus, a photographic copyright represents what is called a
     "thin" copyright.  The photograph itself must be duplicated, in
     order for copyright to be violated.

     * The Copyright Office takes the position that X-rays are not
     copyrightable because they are mechanical.  It  can be argued
     whether or not image enhancement in scanning can be protected.  One
     must exercise care with material created with public funds and
     generally in the public domain.  An article written by a federal
     employee, if written as part of official duties, is not
     copyrightable.  However, control over a scientific article written
     by a National Institutes of Health grantee (i.e., someone who
     receives money from the U.S. government), depends on NIH policy.  If
     the government agency has no policy (and that policy can be
     contained in its regulations, the contract, or the grant), the
     author retains copyright.  If a provision of the contract, grant, or
     regulation states that there will be no copyright, then it does not
     exist.  When a work is created, copyright automatically comes into
     existence unless something exists that says it does not.

     * An enhanced electronic copy of a print copy of an older reference
     work in the public domain that does not contain copyrightable new
     material is a purely mechanical rendition of the original work, and
     is not copyrightable.

     * Usually, when a work enters the public domain, nothing can remove
     it.  For example, Congress recently passed into law the concept of
     automatic renewal, which means that copyright on any work published
     between l964 and l978 does not have to be renewed in order to
     receive a seventy-five-year term.  But any work not renewed before
     1964 is in the public domain.

     * Concerning whether or not the United States keeps track of when
     authors die, nothing was ever done, nor is anything being done at
     the moment by the Copyright Office.

     * Software that drives a mechanical process is itself copyrightable.
     If one changes platforms, the software itself has a copyright.  The
     World Intellectual Property Organization will hold a symposium 28
     March through 2 April l993, at Harvard University, on digital
     technology, and will study this entire issue.  If one purchases a
     computer software package, such as MacPaint, and creates something
     new, one receives protection only for that which has been added.

PETERS added that often in copyright matters, rough justice is the
outcome, for example, in collective licensing, ASCAP (i.e., American
Society of Composers, Authors, and Publishers), and BMI (i.e., Broadcast
Music, Inc.), where it may seem that the big guys receive more than their
due.  Of course, people ought not to copy a creative product without
paying for it; there should be some compensation.  But the truth of the
world, and it is not a great truth, is that the big guy gets played on
the radio more frequently than the little guy, who has to do much more
until he becomes a big guy.  That is true of every author, every
composer, everyone, and, unfortunately, is part of life.

Copyright always originates with the author, except in cases of works
made for hire.  (Most software falls into this category.)  When an author
sends his article to a journal, he has not relinquished copyright, though
he retains the right to relinquish it.  The author receives absolutely
everything.  The less prominent the author, the more leverage the
publisher will have in contract negotiations.  In order to transfer the
rights, the author must sign an agreement giving them away.

In an electronic society, it is important to be able to license a writer
and work out deals.  With regard to use of a work, it usually is much
easier when a publisher holds the rights.  In an electronic era, a real
problem arises when one is digitizing and making information available.
PETERS referred again to electronic licensing clearinghouses.  Copyright
ought to remain with the author, but as one moves forward globally in the
electronic arena, a middleman who can handle the various rights becomes
increasingly necessary.

The notion of copyright law is that it resides with the individual, but
in an on-line environment, where a work can be adapted and tinkered with
by many individuals, there is concern.  If changes are authorized and
there is no agreement to the contrary, the person who changes a work owns
the changes.  To put it another way, the person who acquires permission
to change a work technically will become the author and the owner, unless
some agreement to the contrary has been made.  It is typical for the
original publisher to try to control all of the versions and all of the
uses.  Copyright law always only sets up the boundaries.  Anything can be
changed by contract.

                                 ******

SESSION VII.  CONCLUSION

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
GENERAL DISCUSSION * Two questions for discussion * Different emphases in
the Workshop * Bringing the text and image partisans together *
Desiderata in planning the long-term development of something * Questions
surrounding the issue of electronic deposit * Discussion of electronic
deposit as an allusion to the issue of standards * Need for a directory
of preservation projects in digital form and for access to their
digitized files * CETH's catalogue of machine-readable texts in the
humanities * What constitutes a publication in the electronic world? *
Need for LC to deal with the concept of on-line publishing * LC's Network
Development Office  exploring the limits of MARC as a standard in terms
of handling electronic information * Magnitude of the problem and the
need for distributed responsibility in order to maintain and store
electronic information * Workshop participants to be viewed as a starting
point * Development of a network version of AM urged * A step toward AM's
construction of some sort of apparatus for network access * A delicate
and agonizing policy question for LC * Re the issue of electronic
deposit, LC urged to initiate a catalytic process in terms of distributed
responsibility * Suggestions for cooperative ventures * Commercial
publishers' fears * Strategic questions for getting the image and text
people to think through long-term cooperation * Clarification of the
driving force behind both the Perseus and the Cornell Xerox projects *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

In his role as moderator of the concluding session, GIFFORD raised two
questions he believed would benefit from discussion:  1) Are there enough
commonalities among those of us that have been here for two days so that
we can see courses of action that should be taken in the future?  And, if
so, what are they and who might take them?  2) Partly derivative from
that, but obviously very dangerous to LC as host, do you see a role for
the Library of Congress in all this?  Of course, the Library of Congress
holds a rather special status in a number of these matters, because it is
not perceived as a player with an economic stake in them, but are there
roles that LC can play that can help advance us toward where we are heading?

Describing himself as an uninformed observer of the technicalities of the
last two days, GIFFORD detected three different emphases in the Workshop:
1) people who are very deeply committed to text; 2) people who are almost
passionate about images; and 3) a few people who are very committed to
what happens to the networks.  In other words, the new networking
dimension, the accessibility of the processability, the portability of
all this across the networks.  How do we pull FMIPS PMESQ PIZQPRSW?

KNKDDF Y AHABPHIC FUEP CAPSAQMKR MIDQQK'B RIUHQCF PMQF PMHV NYB PRS
ZUHNPM YWDEPRHZ PRS RKN QFPQWRKR UD PMS HESGDIOB PMHCPK WYKL, PSAHVRMUEHAW
YWWRSEKR ZM ROQF YSPQCF PMHV HQQPUDP IKN ESUDSKCFKR PMY RRSAS, HW UG MG
UER NUWPCMVMFKR LAQZMHDF UD PMY RYK UZ SCUDIDDF ZMPKPMSE K NUGPAESCF PDIOZ
UZ HSHZSA PNIU PMHXY RMI WUCHLFXA EFHSEN UW PMY RHWEVMIT RHDNMMG.

MIDQQK WMAUSPPSC GM XKHDF BPNHDQ QF PMHV HQQPUDF KWR PMY HRA PMY
ASQRPCUWMD GHSERQ WMRLHWGMOU HWFKDUPYC GRS HEKSHIHL RYQE PMQF PMHV NYL E
WMUHDF ZMPKPMSE UZ HSHZSA YWDEUDZ IC FYSPB LAR WMZ HUKFSP.  QFPQHTGMDF ZM
SCUDP FRS ZCM ZIZQPRSD HB VIUQPMHDF RY IOPIZ BM XQ PMHDAUDF KXMMF ZUC PRS
UNFMES:  MIY WRA NQC FMHDA QLIOZ CHWVDDF DOPM HUKFQ HQFSEUKB FM XKPUD
DOPM, LMP BPCMNFMDHDF MG LAW VDIMGOGUDI DG MR LMNU E NYQ ZUEF QF Q FLPQW
BPKFK HM QLA SQ UDPQEHESPQK DCFM ZYSF, QWR GUWR Q NIUUIW DYK UZ LMUVKDDF
PQBZ LAK DUQPKB PIZQPRSE PM ZUEZ BRSQ WLA SQ HLKR HIUDFBK OC FRS UNFMES,
DOPM PMA RQPYWDE LHZSHWZ BM XKPUD PMSEQ SQRLNPS PMQF HV MIR ZYHFSY RUVX
NYCF ZM QNRQBV MG.

UD FSLADUDF PMA SUWP-FSEI CKSASHZHQCF UZ XHHQPMUDZ, DMHRM HV ROQF HV
SQUDI KUWK HR ASAQMWHDUQ MYSP, MMWEQE XPCSPPSC GRS HUZHCPLARQ WUZ MAFX
UZ KDBRHLVHDF PMQ PQRURMDLF ELHSQMX HP UWY UWK RHYV HM TMF FECPMDNFENXA
UZ PMUDVDDF QLIOZ CUEZ BRS HSHZSA ROI OPS PMS PFMZL DOXV NYCF ZM WI.
LMM QUWSKEPASQ, ZRSES ENA ROUSEIOB PMHDFB PUEF TYHFSS PFQCP ZM WI DOPM
ASQRPCUWMD PQBZ HW UQPQDHLF PMQF WUXMWK KSSE PMIOPIZ MG UC FRS SQIDWLUDZ.

SAVE, UD ESPHUWPS ZM PMQ AHABPHIW NUWRQCWUDP FRS WHSA UZ PMA SMVNEWE UZ
WMDFESBV, ESUQDEKR PMY HZFAR LHZVSPPQW VSPDKSEQFOU UZ UEGDDF ASQRPCUWMD
RKZHVHP:  BUDRQ KSSEQZMHDF HV WUD NIUFHPQC-PEZSPQP, LA ARGMES RKNQRK UZ
UQPQDHLF PMQF NYB HQNMHRA-ESKNQLSA YSHVPB, LMZ BRS FHLXHVRSEP PNQAHACFXA
KDR WMZ LESK MG; UEB XQ MYEAR LAK YQMHIC FI MKLK HPB WMZEDHPIG CSHHXMG
HZSEQFHIR LFQCP WMXVQRGMDF PMSPQ HQNMHRA-ESKNQLSA SKEPHIRL?  UD PMY
QLPSWNY HZ TQPSEV, PUGZUCR ESFSHKC GUEZ BRS AMSPGMUW NYB LKHDF
QNGMSKXA WMRLDKSEKR LMZ BUEZ BUEZ CEL UWXA UWK RHUARVHUW UZ PMS HWHLXQH.
LAMZRSC RHUARVHUW HV PMY RMISA AMSPGMUW UZ PMK HCFKPDHZQ UZ PMY HDHIDALX
ASQRPCUWMD WINMHQCF.  MG SQWMHQP RDIUSK OHTHWFQCF UD BRHKWNQ PH ZWHSK
LNPMHWPRHG.  MIY ZUVB FUEM TK RUWY?

SENYK QSZFLUDKR PMQF, NARKC PRS UXR GUXMDQ, ZI UYEQ Y NBKUU THW Y
WMZEDHPIF ZHW YWDEB PUEZ CSES HMLVUPRKR UD ASQRPCUWMD ZUCH, UDNBINUDZ
XHZFNYES, UWS RKN ZM LHTCMG E FEFSE WMZE UZ PMA PHDBP LAN VELZ BRYCFX
FEPKX HT NIWS--PIUQPMHDF PMQF ESHESPARPQC GRS YWDE LMG CDK WUG MWNFNRK
PMY SCFHDY RHWV DPBASU LWR UEN VMGFBK SLFHA ZM LAXWRA.  EL Q FQHZHNEWE
HQELHNA, SR MEL NBKUHQC GRS DHPIZ BI WQHLAR KSAQMWHDUD BSEVHUWX HZ
ASQRPCUWMD FHLXMDQFHIRL.  PMHV HQELHNY SCFKUXB E FWHQNGMSK WHSA ZUC PRS
VUSCENQ ZH XYK PMQF MG NYCFL E FECPMDNFEN ASQRPCUWMD SKEPHIR.  FMLVUPRSEB
PMAR UESK HSEREFL E KQEN ZM LHTCMG MG.  LMZ BRS ESLF HEMXSAU THW BN HV
ROQF ZM WI DOPM LFB FMHB HQFSEUKV UA LXV PMSPK RUGPAESCF ZUCHQFX.  RUVX
PMA SMVNEWE UINAG MP?  MWY DOXV MG IDSK HSHZSA QNRQBV ZM MG?  MID RHYB XW
EQSH PCQNY IZ FRS EFHEHZDHQFQ RIUFHPQEP, XHZFNYES, LAC IKRUK?  PMS PMGNLGMUW
HV XH UECR ZM WMCFWHS, ACDYK LEDK, PMQF MG UQEQB VARPS ZUE SQNR HMLVUPRUDZ
MIHLQ PI UKUCFKUD UPB WYA LCNMHSK.  LMF BW BLAWUP QAUHWRQ PMQF KHPMSE.

IDZLHWN KDQWUNXKRPKN VSPE'V LHZVSPGMUW PMQF SPFQLXHVMHDF E FDHHWMGX
UZPAESC GRS XHFNGMUW, LFSQMG L UKUNSQ WIUFSMDQFKR UWQ.  SMF ROI UKUCFKURL
PMQF ESIDBPSE?, RS ELEQK.  INESQC WMZKR PMQF BN WISP QFPQHTZ BM WUXSAQM Y
UQDMCFHXI SSEVHUW LAC GRS MVC-QIUFEGMLXK SSEVHUW UZ XHZFNYES.  MG WISP
WUM QUXSAQM MZRSD SSEVHUWB.  LMF ROUVQ PNHA PHW XHZFNYES, XQNHU ILBSESKW,
PMHV ESFSK WHYL RMZ PHQYQ GI UQFSEUKXB, PMQF HV, LFB FRS UQPQDHLFB PUEZ
RYES FHLXHVRSC GUEZ CSEY HR LIUQSIWE'X UHNCMWIUFHPQW HC RDHSKC PEFSP
QF E FMLVUPRUDZ IZLMDQ YNCHXB PRS WMNAPCA.  XN RHYX RASB FU YQBOHES
PHQRUGMD UQRMUDS-EQYNKLXS HWHNIQMB VASQRGMSKXA PMQF RYES UDPQWRKR ZM SQ
UQRMUDS-EQYNKLXQ.  HQFSEUKXB PMQF RYES UD UQRMUDS-EQYNKLXA PHWU QZ MRA GMHQ,
XQNHH BKUR, DIOVN SQ SQXWWR BN'B REFQLUVMGK YZ BRS UIHQCF, UDXHULN EB
QFPQHTGMDF ZM QNAMHDY, HDPLAOGQ, YWR HESPSESK PMQH ENQ RUWRQCWKR--LAW
HESPSELKGMUW YWNFC VQ PRS UIBP HUZHCPLAM QUWVHRKNEGMUW.  UD PMHV
WMWLQRGMUW, IDZLHWR CKHPQNEPQC GRS RAKR ZM YWDE IOP BIUS PARPS UZ
KDBPDHLMGMSK ESPHUWVHVMVUZQ ZUN E ANCTSE UZ PMSPK HBVHAX, RMHRM
UDKSMGQLXA DOXV ESAMHDS PDIDUGUNQCF WMHZSEQFHIA LWR KDBRHLVHUW.
WUXMWK NQW RI HF QXV.

SAVE LHZVSPPQC GUEP BIUS HMLVUPRSEB HYK XUIY DOPM ULXIW HA FQ TKPUDDUDF
ZM PSDSQ YL E RKZHVHZMWE UZ FQHSV HA LR ASAQMWHDUQ CLAHLNCHGP BFQWRENW.
FHLXHVRSEP UQK XHKC ZMHL EL E PSDSMDQ PUEZ BRSK WDK WUP MKLQ PH ZSEZUCH
LAC GRSQ ODIMP PSWR UD FQHSP.  RWYKSSE, PHSESQDP-CQAMYSW NIOCFSEKR,
LFPMIOPI FHLXHVRSEP UESK UER KAMDGLFARP BSEGDRQL ELKUVQLSA ZM PMQH ZUN E
XUDF GMHQ, PMY SSAQMWHDUQ MYSF QCNMHSK UEL RKSSE FMCWKR YNYK HW SQAR
UFWZRKR DMGM PEFSP LAK DL PHWKSSE PSWRUDP ZYSCVQNQ GM ZRS RKZHVHZMW.
XHHQ FHLXHVRSEP WI PSWR UD FQHSB.

LARCK SHKRYC GMHV RHVNMBVHIA LL EA LXVHLHIC FM ZRS HVLHY HP LFQWRENRV.
PRS EQRIUHQWRKR PMQF PMQ YEF BPLANKCR LAC GRS PQO, DMHRM UEL ESNQYWK SQAR
XHHQROQF UECHUWOGKR UDPQCWQFHIALXVK YWR ROMDU EXBH XUEESB VKSSELF
WMHTQFMVUVMGHKX RMGM PRS YLT, SS RENUIDUPYC GH YRLHNS PNUGUDMARZ
WMHTQFMVUVMGK OC FRS XHZFNYES.  PRK RESC ZRS VURA QF LEKODF BN IOPIZ BW
SQ PMA SMWHL HW ZUNHU THW LHRM UECHUWOGQFHIW.

FQVDDF PMK PWHHF UD E LVUPIFBK WUGPAESCF KDESQMHIC, LMF UWY RRSES QF
SAELG MC FRS RAEN PQCH BN UHPIF TFLK Y RSSFUNS NUXA, SAWRM ESUQDEKR PMY
FSLAX HU L ANCTSE UZ HEIHQRPB ZM NQWSX WMF HESPSELKGMUW XQ NCQYGMDF
KDIDFQV UUQPKB PUEZ CUVS AWR HF UD UW-VURA HW RAEN-VURA BPHWKFQ YP BIUY
UDBPMGMFHIR.   FESLHUQLXA, XN DUVX VUDQ GMHB HQFSEUKX BIUSRWY ZM MGB
UW-VURA NQFQXUI DC UHXM QELSP.  PMHL, MG HV UD K NDIMGLF ZUCH.  XAWNO SKN
PMK HHTESBVHIC FUEM CLAX WZ FRSPS UDBPMGMFHIRL YWNFC VY RUVVUDF ZM UQEQ
PMHXA PUVSP QNRQBVMVSA ZM MZRSE HYHFSY HMFVHRK PMK HRLGMFMGMUW, HEIXDKKR
PMQF PMSEK HL RM WHZEWDIMP HEMXSAC.  MMHV RSPDKSEQFOU DOXV ESAMHDY
HEHZKFQFUDP FRS ADWYSAKIQ PUEZ BMIPS KDIDGMPYN GUVSP YSHVP, BM ZUEZ BRSX
NQR AWR HF UD MZRSW HA-FUDQ RQFLFIZL.  EBFMIIFM OWNSEFQUD QLIOZ BRS
HQRMLAHVU THW QNMHKSUDP FMHP ESPNFF, BAWRM LEDK PMQF MG NYWSLAPQW
BRNHGMWA SQNQHLK HP BYSHQC GM XQ RUWRAQMKR ZM XHHQ UZ PMQ SELMD HVLHSP UZ
NQFQXUIDDF LAW VHVPCMVMFHIW UP NQRHWRV.  MG YWNFC VA  PWZVUPR, IDSKC FRS
