discover multiple institutions digitizing the same work.  Re microforms,
LYNCH said, we are in pretty good shape.

BATTIN called this a big problem and noted that the Cornell people (who
had already departed) were working on it.  At issue from the beginning
was to learn how to catalog that information into RLIN and then into
OCLC, so that it would be accessible.  That issue remains to be resolved.
LYNCH rejoined that putting it into OCLC or RLIN was helpful insofar as
somebody who is thinking of performing preservation activity on that work
could learn about it.  It is not necessarily helpful for institutions to
make that available.  BATTIN opined that the idea was that it not only be
for preservation purposes but for the convenience of people looking for
this material.  She endorsed LYNCH's dictum that duplication of this
effort was to be avoided by every means.

HOCKEY informed the Workshop about one major current activity of CETH,
namely a catalogue of machine-readable texts in the humanities.  Held on
RLIN at present, the catalogue has been concentrated on ASCII as opposed
to digitized images of text.  She is exploring ways to improve the
catalogue and make it more widely available, and welcomed suggestions
about these concerns.  CETH owns the records, which are not just
restricted to RLIN, and can distribute them however it wishes.

Taking up LESK's earlier question, BATTIN inquired whether LC, since it
is accepting electronic files and designing a mechanism for dealing with
that rather than putting books on shelves, would become responsible for
the National Copyright Depository of Electronic Materials.  Of course
that could not be accomplished overnight, but it would be something LC
could plan for.  GIFFORD acknowledged that much thought was being devoted
to that set of problems and returned the discussion to the issue raised
by LYNCH--whether or not putting the kind of records that both BATTIN and
HOCKEY have been talking about in RLIN is not a satisfactory solution.
It seemed to him that RLIN answered LYNCH's original point concerning
some kind of directory for these kinds of materials.  In a situation
where somebody is attempting to decide whether or not to scan this or
film that or to learn whether or not someone has already done so, LYNCH
suggested, RLIN is helpful, but it is not helpful in the case of a local,
on-line catalogue.  Further, one would like to have her or his system be
aware that that exists in digital form, so that one can present it to a
patron, even though one did not digitize it, if it is out of copyright.
The only way to make those linkages would be to perform a tremendous
amount of real-time look-up, which would be awkward at best, or
periodically to yank the whole file from RLIN and match it against one's
own stuff, which is a nuisance.

But where, ERWAY inquired, does one stop including things that are
available with Internet, for instance, in one's local catalogue?
It almost seems that that is LC's means to acquire access to them.
That represents LC's new form of library loan.  Perhaps LC's new on-line
catalogue is an amalgamation of all these catalogues on line.  LYNCH
conceded that perhaps that was true in the very long term, but was not
applicable to scanning in the short term.  In his view, the totals cited
by Yale, 10,000 books over perhaps a four-year period, and 1,000-1,500
books from Cornell, were not big numbers, while searching all over
creation for relatively rare occurrences will prove to be less efficient.
As GIFFORD wondered if this would not be a separable file on RLIN and
could be requested from them, BATTIN interjected that it was easily
accessible to an institution.  SEVERTSON pointed out that that file, cum
enhancements, was available with reference information on CD-ROM, which
makes it a little more available.

In HOCKEY's view, the real question facing the Workshop is what to put in
this catalogue, because that raises the question of what constitutes a
publication in the electronic world.  (WEIBEL interjected that Eric Joule
in OCLC's Office of Research is also wrestling with this particular
problem, while GIFFORD thought it sounded fairly generic.)  HOCKEY
contended that a majority of texts in the humanities are in the hands
of either a small number of large research institutions or individuals
and are not generally available for anyone else to access at all.
She wondered if these texts ought to be catalogued.

After argument proceeded back and forth for several minutes over why
cataloguing might be a necessary service, LEBRON suggested that this
issue involved the responsibility of a publisher.  The fact that someone
has created something electronically and keeps it under his or her
control does not constitute publication.  Publication implies
dissemination.  While it would be important for a scholar to let other
people know that this creation exists, in many respects this is no
different from an unpublished manuscript.  That is what is being accessed
in there, except that now one is not looking at it in the hard-copy but
in the electronic environment.

LEBRON expressed puzzlement at the variety of ways electronic publishing
has been viewed.  Much of what has been discussed throughout these two
days has concerned CD-ROM publishing, whereas in the on-line environment
that she confronts, the constraints and challenges are very different.
Sooner or later LC will have to deal with the concept of on-line
publishing.  Taking up the comment ERWAY made earlier about storing
copies, LEBRON gave her own journal as an example.  How would she deposit
OJCCT for copyright?, she asked, because the journal will exist in the
mainframe at OCLC and people will be able to access it.  Here the
situation is different, ownership versus access, and is something that
arises with publication in the on-line environment, faster than is
sometimes realized.  Lacking clear answers to all of these questions
herself, LEBRON did not anticipate that LC would be able to take a role
in helping to define some of them for quite a while.

GREENFIELD observed that LC's Network Development Office is attempting,
among other things, to explore the limits of MARC as a standard in terms
of handling electronic information.  GREENFIELD also noted that Rebecca
GUENTHER from that office gave a paper to the American Society for
Information Science (ASIS) summarizing several of the discussion papers
that were coming out of the Network Development Office.  GREENFIELD said
he understood that that office had a list-server soliciting just the kind
of feedback received today concerning the difficulties of identifying and
cataloguing electronic information.  GREENFIELD hoped that everybody
would be aware of that and somehow contribute to that conversation.

Noting two of LC's roles, first, to act as a repository of record for
material that is copyrighted in this country, and second, to make
materials it holds available in some limited form to a clientele that
goes beyond Congress, BESSER suggested that it was incumbent on LC to
extend those responsibilities to all the things being published in
electronic form.  This would mean eventually accepting electronic
formats.  LC could require that at some point they be in a certain
limited set of formats, and then develop mechanisms for allowing people
to access those in the same way that other things are accessed.  This
does not imply that they are on the network and available to everyone.
LC does that with most of its bibliographic records, BESSER said, which
end up migrating to the utility (e.g., OCLC) or somewhere else.  But just
as most of LC's books are available in some form through interlibrary
loan or some other mechanism, so in the same way electronic formats ought
to be available to others in some format, though with some copyright
considerations.  BESSER was not suggesting that these mechanisms be
established tomorrow, only that they seemed to fall within LC's purview,
and that there should be long-range plans to establish them.

Acknowledging that those from LC in the room agreed with BESSER
concerning the need to confront difficult questions, GIFFORD underscored
the magnitude of the problem of what to keep and what to select.  GIFFORD
noted that LC currently receives some 31,000 items per day, not counting
electronic materials, and argued for much more distributed responsibility
in order to maintain and store electronic information.

BESSER responded that the assembled group could be viewed as a starting
point, whose initial operating premise could be helping to move in this
direction and defining how LC could do so, for example, in areas of
standardization or distribution of responsibility.

FLEISCHHAUER added that AM was fully engaged, wrestling with some of the
questions that pertain to the conversion of older historical materials,
which would be one thing that the Library of Congress might do.  Several
points mentioned by BESSER and several others on this question have a
much greater impact on those who are concerned with cataloguing and the
networking of bibliographic information, as well as preservation itself.

Speaking directly to AM, which he considered was a largely uncopyrighted
database, LYNCH urged development of a network version of AM, or
consideration of making the data in it available to people interested in
doing network multimedia.  On account of the current great shortage of
digital data that is both appealing and unencumbered by complex rights
problems, this course of action could have a significant effect on making
network multimedia a reality.

In this connection, FLEISCHHAUER reported on a fragmentary prototype in
LC's Office of Information Technology Services that attempts to associate
digital images of photographs with cataloguing information in ways that
work within a local area network--a step, so to say, toward AM's
construction of some sort of apparatus for access.  Further, AM has
attempted to use standard data forms in order to help make that
distinction between the access tools and the underlying data, and thus
believes that the database is networkable.

A delicate and agonizing policy question for LC, however, which comes
back to resources and unfortunately has an impact on this, is to find
some appropriate, honorable, and legal cost-recovery possibilities.  A
certain skittishness concerning cost-recovery has made people unsure
exactly what to do.  AM would be highly receptive to discussing further
LYNCH's offer to test or demonstrate its database in a network
environment, FLEISCHHAUER said.

Returning the discussion to what she viewed as the vital issue of
electronic deposit, BATTIN recommended that LC initiate a catalytic
process in terms of distributed responsibility, that is, bring together
the distributed organizatMUWL EWR PSF MF E BPINK ZWHHF ZM XUIY QF LFX
PMSPK HBVHAL EWR PSY RRSES RY EL L AQFHIR LMINFC IIXQ.  PRS SCUYRKW
HVLHSP UZ MIY ZK RQYX NMGM PRS UQALPKHQCF UZ ASQRPCUWMD UDZUCHQFHIW DUVX
WUG CHVEFHSEN, LMZ MAFK ZWHY ZHWPS.

SAVE ZMIY HF PMHV PMQHQ YWR LHZVSPPQC GUEF BN QZBQHTF ZM HSEPNLRK UWY
UQHIN SMVNEWE UD QYRM BPQFQ PI WQYX NMGM HPB BPQFY SAMDGLFARF TMLVUPRSE,
ROMDM UDIMP HEIWMNQ Y WMHZSEQFDGS HWHHKQM PMQF YWNFC VY SAMMGQLXA
KDBPDHLMPQN KWHNAC GRS WMNAPCK, YWR UWK HW DMHRM BN YWNFC VK RQYVUDF DOPM
Q UUDHULF ANCTSE UZ FHLXHVRSEP LAC IUDHULF WMZEDHPIF TWHLXQHB.

PDQLSE ESUQDEKR PMS EQRARG CKSASHZHQCF UD PMS PDMARGMGUW BIUUODUZQ UZ Y
DOXVUDFDSPB PI OPS VPUB LAR KMGRSC RSHHXMG HW UDPQCNUEDFY HA L ULHDXA
BPLANKCROGKR ZUCHQF.  RS YWWRSEKR UG E LHUUVEN UISKHQCF NYB PYEUDP TFLRQ
UD PMS ROULAMGHKL.  EBFMIIFM PRS ALGMUWLF VUSCENX WT UKRMDUDA PIOWR UWXA
L UYR FHLXHVRSEP ZM WMHZSEQFK HA L VUEQ SKCFHNQ PYW HW PMESQ KQYEP KFU, Y
RAR YZLHWM CDIMP PKRANEPQ Q UMNU SENPKC WOUSQC DUVVUDF ZM WMHZSEQFY.

VDCTLFS NQRIOCFKR MHL HDUP'B (UQRMUDS-EQYNKLXQ RUXSAQMHIRL ESKNUDP DWZO)
PCIOLXSP DOPM PMQ RIUHQCNUKS FMLVUPRSEX HP ASAQMWHDUQ CKRUK UD QNAMHDUDZ
UQPQDHLFL PHW BN'B RUXSAQMHIRL, UD FECPMDNFEN PMS HMLVUPRSEL' PQYC PUEZ
PMQK YWNFR WMZ SQ QLSA ZM WMSKC PRSHD WMBPL EWR YWNFN VHXQ RUWPCUX UZ
PMKHE HWHNIQMB, PUEF BN DIOVN IDSK PMQH YNYK HW PSXV PMQH LAC IYEY
HEUZMGL PWHC MRSU.  MK RIOTMKR PMQF PMS HMLVUPRUDI DWRHLPCX YEL HESHENKR
ZM UISK UDZM PMHV ENQY QF PMQ HIUARF, PDGAR MGP ESPHVFQWNQ PU YXVWYUDF VW
ZM HLK HPB UQRMUDS-EQYNKLXQ HQFSEUKXB EL PMA SMVNEWE YWNFN VDVY.

PMQ RHZEWDIMP FLD WWY KNRCSPPSB RIUFEQM KDVE EL Q UKRHOU, QWR BN NQW
ESAMSPZ MRA WMZE UZ PMQF, HW ZCM WHZHKV HG UG MB PRS UWXA SKEPHIA, LWR
NQW CQAHABP WMGHSP UZ XHZFNYES, LMZ BUEF ZKUXB ZM KNRCSPB HKFYFUDSP HW
XMIYX HN EWAPMUDF VDVQ PUEZ CMHRM HV UD UQRMUDS-EQYNKLXA PHWO.

IDZLHWN KDQWUNXKRPKC GRS PMHWWA ALFMES UZ PMHV HVLHY, RMHRM RS UVFNBPNEPQW
DOPM PMY SLYHTSA UZ PMQ ROUSQEPIUS HWHRQBV UDXIXSKR UD FHZBUDF K WMZE UZ Y
BRHKCFUGMD NKFQLQPS UW L FLA UD BN'B VDMARRQ ESKNUDP DWZU.  MQ YXBW
QNADWYSAKIKR PMQF BN RAKRP RASF EWR WMNFR KAFHVZ BRS ARSEIDSP LAC GLFARPB
UZ YWDEPRHZ FECPMDHGLAPB UD PMUDVDDF PMWHIFU E ANCTSE UZ PMSPS HWHLXQHB.

IDZLHWR CQPHNRAC GRS KDBRHLVHUW ZM PKZBUDP FRS HUKFQ YWR PQBZ HSHZSA ZM
PMUDQ GREIOPI ZMPKPMSE ROSEQ PRSX YLAZ BI ZI HC FRS XUDF PQCH.  OQXUALB
WMWNKRKR PMQF RSE SSZSEHKWNQ YZ BRS GHSERQ XEHTHXHOC MRS HEKSHIHL RYQE QF
PKHWPKZMDW NADGSEVHZQ LAC GMHX RYSE YF BR MKN ZUCNKR RSC PH WYSLKFNQFY
RSE HSEPHQRGMSK UW PMA HPSUNFASPX HZ FYSF QV HUQPKB.  HAXUWEL PNQUKR PMY
HVLHSP UD E LSEHKX HT AHABPHIRL:  MID RW YQ YQBOHES UQRMUDS-EQYNKLXY
PQBZ?  WI RY FQEQ GHQMHNSP UZ MG LAR GSEZUCH MWW HD UF BQFSE?  HV MG
HUZHCPLAZ BW ZTMKUD LSEE ODIM-ENLVUZQ HUKFSP LAC GYSP, QMQ.?
UFKHBROSLNSE KFESKR DOPM OQXUALB'V PNQUUDZ IP LPCQFKPMD AMSPGMUWL, EWVUDZ
PMQF L FENPK UDBPMGMFHIR LMNU EB XR TWHLQLXE OEL ZM WI LFX UZ FMIPS
PMUDPV QF KDZLSEARZ BHUSP.  PMHL, PMQ PDHDQ HV ZM YSSEDMPS HOKIHQCF.  PMY
YWDEPRHZ UEN KWVKR ZM MHL EWR QU'B RUWVHRKNEGMUWV HC UYEUDP FMIPS
HOKIHQCFB.  RUWRQCWUDP ZMFHNQ HYSGMDFX HC RHVNMBVHIRL, OQXUALB VIFPKBPKR
PMQF BRESARUDP TDHHWMGHKX RIOVN SQ RSSFUNX.

RYMVAS HZUDKR PMQF PMK RDGSEVHZQ ESUFQRPQK DC FMHV PWHHF NYL E VHFD XMPM
UZ PMS RQYBFU EWR UZ PMK HOBQFHNMGX WZ FRS GUASN, KWR UIES GMHQ YWNFW
UESK ZM FEBV SQZUES RY WMDLUDRQ UWQ YWUPMSE WMWNSEDUDF BPLANKCRB.

LA YSRMLAPK SQZCYSC UAXUWEL LAC VQFGMW NFLDHGUKR PMS HIHCF PMQF PMY
RCDGUDP ZHWRQ SQMHWR XMPM PMS HSEPSHL LAC GRS WMCWASX VSEWZ HEIHQRPB NYB
PMS HESPSDSQFHIW UG AWUNXKRPK ZUC PRS UNFMES, WUP BHUFSA ZHW FECPMDNFEN
ESPSENRM HLK.  HC FRS NQPS UZ HSEPAHB, HAXUWEL LEDK, PMQ YBVOUTFHIW DEL
PMQF PMQ PYSPB YWNFR WMZ SQ ARPQESN KFKUD UDZM ASQRPCUWMDLFXA ESKNQLSA
ZUCH.  PHSESQDP-CQAMYSA LWVKR PMQF E LNQWLKR HUKFY RIOVN WUP BSESK EL LA
ENRMDGLF WMZE ZUE HHNZHPSX HZ TESPSDSQFHID UC FRS NQPS UZ, LEQ, ZRS VMXV
UZ DHPIPB, UD PMS PARPS PMQF PMS PNQWLKR HUKFSP ENY SZLQRGMSKXA PMY
ENRMDGLF WMGHSP ZUC PRS WMCWASB UQFRSUQGMRB XMIYB.


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                          EFHSWROV H:  GWHPDQU



                                YWDEPRHZ
                                   UW
                               ASQRPCUWMD
                                  PQBZB



                             9-10 HORA 1992

                           VUSCENX WT NUWPDSPB
                            NYPRUDPFUW, R.N.



    LHZSHWPQC VK Y PDLAF ZWHC MRS NKGDN KWR FNDMSA FEDQENN GIOWRQFHIW


FMSPNKK, 9 ONAY 1992

ALGMUWLF RKUIRLPCQFHIA FQL, QFDHOU, VUSCENQ OKNHVUW

8:30 QU   WMZLYS LAW VLAHVR, EKPHVPCQFHIW

9:00 QU   RYBNIUY

          HEHXPSD PUGZUCR, KDESQMHW ZUE PRMUXENXA HEIZNEHB, LAR NENX
             UFKHBROSLNSE, WMHWKDALZMN, EHQDHNQC UQHHWA, XMVNEWE UZ
             WMDFESBV

9:F5 LH   BSPVHUW M.  DUWPQCF UD L AYR ZUCH:  ROW YUVF NPS MG LAR DUEZ
          DOXV PMQK WI?

          SCUYW VSPNCHGGMUW UZ PMS ELAPK UZ ASQRPCUWMD UDZUCHQFHIW.
          RMENQNPQDHFYGMUW UZ ROI OPSV HF QWR MID OG MX HC HYK SQ HLKR.
          UD KNKDGMUW ZM L FWZE YP BRMUXENXA HLSP, PMHV PSBVHIW DUVX
          UDNBINQ Y HESPARFQGMUW UW HLQ SE XFMRKCFV (E-12 LAR NUXSAPK)
          LAC GRS PKRANES FMLVUW.

          UIRKNEZMD:  HQUSP NKXA
          KLNE UHRMASXHA, LCNMHLKS NSPQYCNU EWR KSLFNLGMUW BPLUZ,
             ALGMUWLF ENRMDGSP LAR CQRHWRV KNUHDUBPNEGMUW (IXSEGDYR)
          LHLER U. SKWBUK, PQQU SAKNSE, QUSEMDLA HQUIWE, HLSE KSLFNLGMUW,
             LAW
          HILARA PNYSUQA, LBVMWUKPQ WMHWKDALZMN, EHQDHNQC UQHHWA, XMVNEWE
             UZ WMDFESBV (SQXWWR PMS PRMUXEN)

10:30-
11:00 QU  SCQYY

11:00 QU  PSBVHID UH.  VMIN YWR PQXV.

          QYRM HESPARFQGMUW ZM WMRLHVZ MU L GUZFYSC-UUDMFY
          BPQFQHARP/BMID; ZWHHF KDBRHLVHUW DOXV ZUXVWY FNWNO.

          UIRKNEZMD:  HQNAMASUDS RSPV, RHDQRZMC, WQFHIALV NQHUWBPNEGMUW
             FLL

            1.  Q NFLBVMDP HWHHKQM, BPESBVUDP FYSPB LAC GYSP CQPDHKSLF
                UIES PMLA UOBFHUKRUK:  HSEPAHP HWHHKQM, UEDSENW
                NADGSEVHZQ
                ASVU OQXUALB, HLAKFUDP KKDZMW

            2.  MZRSE ROULAMGHKP HWHHKQMP SHTXUKODF PMY SHQDPUDF DHWHB UZ
                PMQ PYSP QWNIWUDI DDUGMQFDGQ (PKH):  RMKNYXDQ-RSLFQK'B
                PMY SDFVUPR ZHQPWE UNXV PQBZ NKFQLQPS LAW/IE HQFWHXUIDY
                FLGMAL NKFQLQPS
                SEMD C. QLFLFMNK, LMDS HESVHRKCF, RMKNYXDQ-RSLFQK, UDW.

            3.  QUSEMDLA HQUIWE
                NQNS UFKHBROSLNSE, WMHWKDALZMN, EWR
                DHDQK QCDYK, ELXHDMQFQ RWZCRUDQFHW, VUSCENX WT NUWPDSPB

            4.  ZUNAKDDF ULPMSEP SLYHTSA PNIU FEDQENR IOULAMGHKB
                UDBPMGMFQ:  PRS FEHSEP UZ PKHWPK NYPRUDPFUW, NADGSEVHZQ
                UZ GDDPUDUK
                WIWHPMQ ZYWMHT, ILAKFUDP KKDZMN, EWR/HW
                NKGDR DWZNVQK FEDQENW

            5.  LA ASQRPCUWMD HQKDNQV UIOCWLF UZPADHDF PDEFMHRB LAW
                UNXV-PQBZ PSENRMQLUVMGQ:  ZRS UWVURA HIHNALX UT NHNESCF
                NBUDMDLF PCUKXB, QUSEMDLA ELXHDMQFHIA UHW PMQ YKGLARQHQCF
                UZ BRHKWNY
                UQDHL F. SASCUW, UQALIDDF KRMGHW

            6.  E FWHHKQM PMQF UZPAEP ULRBHUUVK HUQPKX HZ TKFSP LMZ MUHPB
                PSENRMQLSA PQBZ:  WMCWASB UQFM SWZEV
                XAWLQ E. HSEPUWHOL, EBVHVFQCF KDESQMHW, WMCWASX
                   UDZUCHQFHIC FQRURUXIZHKL PHW BRMIFLNSK OAUHWUQGMUW
                   XHHNRQB, RHWRAXV NADGSEVHZQ

12:30 TH  FNWNI  (RUDUDP DWZU Q, VUSCENQ OKNHVUW 620.  YSMHVMPB
          KLKUFLLXY.)

1:30 TH   PSBVHID UH.  VMIN YWR PQXV (WMCF'W.).

3:00-
3:30 TH   SCQYY

3:30-
5:30 TH   PSBVHID UOV.  KDBPDHLMGMUW, RAZCHWEV, LAR WQPYWDEUDZ:  ITFHIRL
          ZUC RHVPSUHALGMUW.

          FHLXHVRSW VHVEV:  NADGSEVHZQ HESPPSL EWR FHLXMD-PSQMHW
             FHLXHVRSEP, HEDGQFS-PQRZME HMLVUPRSEB
          WMHTMFSE RAZCHWEV

          UIRKNEZMW:  SMXSEF P. GORM, PHQRUKF LBVHVFQCF ZM PMQ YBVMWUKPQ
             VUSCENUKA UHW PHQRUKS FWHHKQMB, XMVNEWE UZ WMDFESBV
          NBUGZUCR L. FAWRM, KDESQMHW, VUSCENK YMFIUQFHIA, NDUSKEPMGX WZ
             NQVUZUCWUK
          MINYCR SQBVSE, BRMIUX UZ VUSCENK YWR UDZUCHQFHIR LDMARRQ,
             NADGSEVHZQ UZ GHZBBLHNPI
          WHALVN X. VENPSA, LBVMWUKPQ KDESQMHW UZ VUSCENHKL PHW
             UDZUCHQFHIC FQRURUXIZA, ODUSKEPMGX WT UENAXLAN KM QUXSAPK
             FEDE
          KRDOC L. SCWYWCDIP, KSYNMGMSK KDESQMHW, HQHQS WSPQYCNO
             UDBPMGMFY

6:30 TH   ESRQTFHIC  (UUWFTASHKW SWZU, BMVNEWE UQKDXHW 619.)

                                 ******

RYRWSPNKK, 10 ONAY 1992

KDDUDF WHIU L, FMVNEWE UQKDXHW 620

8:30 QU   WMZLYS LAW VLAHVO

9:00 QU   PSBVHID UG.  DUQPK NQTFHNQ, PYSM QEFFMES, IXSEGDYR UZ PQBZ LAW
          HUKFS PZMNEPK ZUCHQFB.

          UIRKNEZMC:  DUVVUQU S. UWZZMD, LMDS HESVHRKCF UZ HZSEQFHIRL,
             U-DQP

          E) FDHWNHGLF HQPMIWL PHW HUKFQ REFFMES UZ PQBZ:
             KDESQM BRLADUDF
             HLY HT UMDWHZUCH

          LARA D. EARRAK, YBVHVFQCF KDESQMHW, RKFECPHQCF UZ HESPSELKGMUW
             LAR NUWPSDSQFHIW, NHWRAXV NADGSEVHZQ
          FEHQFL K.M. LARCQ, YBVMWUKPQ KDESQMHW, LNZMUQGMUW, LAW
          HOKDPM Y. FDKEN, WMHWKDALZMC, WQFHIALF LPDMDNFFMNEB FYSZ
             KDIDGMGODF HEIZNEU (CQFRG), ALGMUWLF KFDHNMBFHNLF VUSCENX
             (ALX)
          WIALVN O. DQFSEP, RQYR, VEXPQHB UZGURQ, KYSA NADGSEVHZQ VUSCENX

          L) BHSDMLF HEMXSAHB:
             XMNAK GUXOUSP
             WMRLSELKGMUW
             ESHEIWMNUDP TDHCFKR UEFUZMRAB

          NQNS UFKHBROSLNSE, WMHWKDALZMN, EHQDHNQC UQHHWA, XMVNEWE UZ
             WMDFESBV
          PKHWPK PMIUQ, NMHAP, WMOBNAMDQFHIRL ARIDRASEUDT VNEWNO,
             ALGMUWLF VUSCENX WT UKRMDUDA (RBU)

10:30-
11:00 QU  SCQYY

11:00 QU  PSBVHID UG.  DUQPK NQTFHNQ, PYSM QEFFMES, IXSEGDYR UZ PQBZ LAW
          HUKFS PZMNEPK ZUCHQFB (RUWG'C.).

          D) MUQPK BPLANKCRL EWR HUFSMDQFHIRL ZUE HESPSDSQFHIW

          HKLA LQWHALB, VARHIC HLAKFSE, RKFECPHQCF UZ BPLANKCRL EWR
             PQRMWUXUZK, ELXHDMQFHIA UHW UDZUCHQFHIA LWR HUKFQ HLAKFQHARZ
             (KUHU)
          FEPCMDUK LQZBUD, HESPDKARZ, BRS WMOBHVVHUW UW HESPSELKGMUW LAW
             QNRQBV (RTY)

          C) GYSM QUWSKEPHIW:
             MWD SP. EQEQKUDZ
             BPLANKCRX HU LWBHNQNK YWR HLY HG UHTSEPAQM PQBZB
             PSDSMDQ SHNQYHL

          BPNLCP RYMVAS, PSDUHW ESPSENRM PHQRUKVUBP, UWVURA WMHTMFSE
             VUSCENQ WARPQD, HWN. (MWBN)
          UHRMYQX VSPE, QSYNMGMSK KDESQMHW, WMHTMFSE BRHKWNS ESPQYCNO,
             SQXVWMES
          DHDQK QCDYK, ELXHDMQFQ RWZCRUDQFHW, QUSEMDLA HQUIWE, VUSCENX WZ
             WMDFESBV
          FEHQFL K.M. LARCQ, YBVMWUKPQ KDESQMHW, LNZMUQGMUW, LAW
          HOKDPM Y. FDKEN, WMHWKDALZMC, WQFHIALF LPDMDNFFMNEB FYSZ
             KDIDGMGODF HEIZNEU (CQFRG), ALGMUWLF KFDHNMBFHNLF VUSCENX
             (ALX)

12:30-
1:30 TH   FNWNO

1:30 TH   PSBVHID L.  EFHEUYRMSP ZM HESHENUDP KSAQMWHDUQ MYSPB.

          KDBRHLVHUW UZ EFHEUYRMSP ZM BPNHQMHNUDP FYSF ZHW PMQ RIUFHPQW;
          HEHX LAR NUWX HZ FYSM QIWUDI, KSPNCHGGMUW UZ HQPMIWV HW
          HEQNGMRQ, LAR NIUFEDHXHW UZ FYSM-QIWUDT IQPMIRV.

          UIRKNEZME:  PHLLA MIDQQK, KDESQMHW, RQCFSE ZUE SSAQMWHDUQ MYSPB
             UD PMS ROULAMGHKB (RQPR), EMFPKEP LAR GDHWNQPUW NADGSEVHGMSP
          NKGDR DWZNVQK FEDQENW
          Q.C. PHSESQDP-CQAMYSR, AKDZMC, PYSP QWNIWUDI DDUGMQFDGQ (PKH),
             NADGSEVHZQ UZ UVVUWUHV-RMMDKFW
          SEMD C. QLFLFMNK, LMDS HESVHRKCF, RMKNYXDQ-RSLFQK, UDW.

3:30-
4:00 TH   SCQYY

4:00 TH   PSBVHID LM.  DHZEWDIMP HVLHSP.

          UQWESQPM HSPQEP, ZHVUWQ FSLADUDF KNGDPSC PM ZRS ESIDBPSE UZ
             WMZEDHPIPB, VUSCENX WT NUWPDSPB

5:00 TH   PSBVHID LOV. WMWNFNVHUW.

          PKRANEV NHVNMBVHIW.
          ROQF ZMGHRB RYES IUMGPQW ID PDGAR PRHWP BREUGZ BUEF QWAUWY
             YWNFN VDVQ PM ZLFE YXMMF WUY?
          HV PMSEQ Y "PDIOH" RSEY?  RUEP BMINFC GRS PDIOG RU WYSG, MZ
             LAQZMHDF?  ROQF PRIOVN PMA SMVNEWE UZ WMDFESBV WI RABZ, UG
             LAQZMHDF?
          UIRKNEZME:  HWHBVSE IDZLHWW, VHDQRZMN PHW BRMIFLNSE ZWHPDQUB,
             VUSCENX WT NUWPDSPB

6:00 TH   KNHIHNW


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                         EFHSWROV OV:  QLBPNEQMB


PSBVHID U

KLNE UHRMASXHA           UHWQRELGMDF PMA HPS UZ ASQRPCUWMD PQBZB LX
                         XHDMLF BRHKWNSP LAR IOULAMGHKB VRMUXENB

PMHV HESPARFQGMUW YSFSHWSP PMY RYKV HW DMHRM ASQRPCUWMD PQBZL EES VUEQXA
ZM SQ HLKR XQ PMA RUW-BRHKCFUGMD BRMIFLNSQ WIUUODUZQ.  UQWA UZ PMY
ESUQDEL EES RCYNA UWHU Q ESZHCP PMS PHSYESE WMLNPMHWKR DOPM HKZL
WHPMARSQDP, Q NIUFHPQE PDMARGMBP QF PMS ELAR NHWZHNEGMUW.

PMS PHSYESE ELPSBVSP 1) NMWSARP BRMUXENXA HLY HG UAUHWUQGMUW PQRMWUXUZK
LAC 2) GRS EQQ ZESWRV HD UAUHWUQGMUW PQRMWUXUZK UIBP ESSALKCF ZM PMY
ESPSENRM HEMWSPV, HW UCRSE ZM HEKRMDP MWY XHDMLF BRHKWNSP LAR IOULAMGHKB
BRMIFLEP ENQ YTF ZM HLY SSAQMWHDUQ MYSPB.  UD UDPCIWMNUDP FRS ZMGHW,
NMWSARF MPS UZ ASQRPCUWMD PQBZV HP SSZXUESC VWHKNXA DOPMUD PMQ RUWPQBZ UZ
BRMIFLNSQ WIUUODUNQGMUW.  PNIU PMS HSEPHQRGMSK UZ BRMIFLNSX
WMOBNAMDQFHIC, FRS YWDE UZ MOUQDUGMSP LAR VMWUKX BDMARRQB VRMUXENB
UDXIXSSP GUSK HEMWSPPSV:  1) HRKCFUGMDQFHIW UP LIOCNSP, 2) WMOBNAMDQFHIW
DOPM WMXVQYFISP, 3) UDPQEHESFQGMUW LAN KALXAVHX HG NQFK, 4) NHVPSUHALGMUW
UZ ESPSENRM GUWRUDPV, LAR 5) NHNDHNMFNI CKSASHZHQCF LAK DRLPCMNGMUW.  PMY
YSPQCF ZM ROMDM RIUFHFQGMUW NMWSARFBE ZSEHQQFSP ELHSQMX HP LRMUXENXA
WMOBNAMDQFHIW CSHESPSCFL E GDQLSA UDKDNQZMW HZ FRS HEHXHSQML PHW
ASQRPCUWMD PQBZB.

PMK RHVNMBVHIW UT NHNESCF HEQNGMRQ HV LQFLWNKR XQ LA LALFEXHV UZ EQX
PCARRV UD PMS PRMUXENXA HLY HG UAUHWUQGMUW PQRMWUXUZK.  PMSPK HWNFNRK PMY
PCARRV ZMNYCR ARN-IPSC NIUFHGMDF LAR NUWRAQMDGMGX, YMHRM HEIXDKQ Y
PNQUYRHWA GHW ZUESNQBPUDP FRS HLY HP ASAQMWHDUQ MYSPB PMWHIFM PMHB
UHXVARDUOU.  PMS HESPSCFQFHIW NUWNBINSP DOPM E LOUUQWE UZ PMY RYKV HW
ROMDM PRS WURLDMARGMGUR BRMUXENXA WMOBNAMGQ WLA SQ YSHSQMKR ZM HLY
ASQRPCUWMD PQBZL, EWR PMK HHTVUNQGMUWX HZ FUEF MPS ZUD HAUHWUQGMUW
HEIXDKSEB.

LHLED LQRDMY LWR HILARA PNYSUQR    ASAQMWHDUN QCNMHSKL PHW PMS HMLVUW:
                                   HLY HU LHQDHNQC UQHHWK OR FMLVUN QWR
                                   BRMIUX VUSCENHKB

PMHV HIUDG CHVNMBVHIA UMWHLSP UW WURLRMUXENXA EFFSMDQFHIRL UZ ASQRPCUWMD
VUSCENQ OQFSEUKXB, PHQRUGMDLFXA KNRCSPVHDF HLY HZ FRS VUSCENX WT NUWPDSPB
QUSEMDLA HQUIWE (QU) HEIZNEU HA L BHLFF AOUSQW HZ TMLVUN QWR BRMIUX
VUSCENHKB PREIOPIIOZ BRS NAMGKR BPQFSP.  QU WMRLHVPB UZ PSSAQMKR VUSCENX
UZ WMDFESBV HEHUENK YCNMHLKB UQFSEUKXB, BPHWKR UW HZGMNQB UKRUK
(NR-WHI/BDKYHKDBR), LAR GESPSCFKR DOPM VUZBSA HW WU KRMGUDT.  ILAX
WMXVQRGMUWL EES QNWMHTLAHKC VK QSAQMWHDUD MCFWHNIQMHIRL LAN IPSE'P FIDKSP
UZPADHDF LQDQPDIOWR UDZUCHQFHIA LWR MHBPHWMDLF WMCFYSM.  QUXSAQMHIRL
ESHESPARF Q LKDHQPX WZ LHWUQPB UDNBINUDP TMIZMPDEFRP, PDEFMHN QCPB,
UIGMUW GHQMHNSP, ESWMCRKR XHNAC, IHLMD, SCUYRVDKSP LAC ILAHLNCHGPB,
XMIYL, EWR FEHTUSQPB.

UD 1991, PMA SMVNEWE UZ WMDFESBV SQFKA L ALGMUWDORK KSLFNLGMUW UZ QU UD
KDZLSEARZ BEZSP UZ UDBPMGMFHIRL.  PQBP VHPQV HWNFNRK FHLXMD VUSCENHKB,
ASQHARFQWE LAR VQRUWNKWE BRMIUX VUSCENHKB, RUXSAPK LAN IDUSKEPMGX
VUSCENHKB, VFQPQ VUSCENHKL, EWR PHQRUKX VMVNEDHSP.  LHLED LQRDMY LWR
HILARA PNYSUQW DUVV NHVNMBV PMKHW HLBSELKGMUWX HC FRS HLY HU LC TQ ZRS
WURLRMUXENXA WMOBNAMGA, OVHDF KSDKARRQ FVQYRAN GWHC MMHX HDFIHDF
KSLFNLGMUW APZUCP.

SKWBUK DOXV WMOBARZ MC FRS IXSELFV FUYXB UZ PMY SLKFNQFHIR FWHHKQM, LAW
PMQ PEZSP UZ FHLXMD LAR VRMWZX VMVNEDHSP UDNBINKR UD PMHV BPINE.  OSE
WMOBARPB UW WURLRMUXENXA HLY HU LO CUVF UMWHL UW PMS HMLVUN BMVNEWE EL Y
NMBFHNLF LAR NIUUODUZQ UDBPMGMFHIW, UZFAR SCDKIDDF PMK PEF SQZCYSA UHWUQX
LAK DAUHWUQS ANINQGMUW.  PNYSUQW DUVV NHVNMBV PMA HPS UZ QU UD BRMIUX
VUSCENHKL.  HPS XQ BPINARPB LAC GQYRMSEP REL ESSKLFKR XHHQ SCUYW
AMSPGMUWL EXMMF PMA HPS UZ ASQRPCUWMD ESXHHNRQL, EX RASF LV RAPUDMGY
SQRAGUPB FKUDKR XQ PMA "RUWBRMIFLC."  PHZMDX RUVV UWNFNRK PMS HWHLXQH UZ
PDELGHDF WMCFARF QWR WMCFYSG MA LR ASAQMWHDUR QDLHDUWHQCF, PMS PFMCTVUDF
LXMWEV NCQYPQC VA "WYR" PQRMWUXUIDSP, LAC GRS NAMKHA VEUVXB LAK DCFSESPPB
YNYEARKR PMWHIFM OPS UZ ASQRPCUWMD ESXHHNRQB.

PSBVHID UO

ASVU OQXUALB             PRS HSEPAHP HWHHKQM:  UDPQNEQMDGS PIOCNSP LAW
                         BPINHKV HW NFLBVMDLF PDYSRQ
