plans of a number of projects to carry out preservation by creating
digital images that will end up in on-line or near-line storage at some
institution.   Presumably, LC will link this material somehow to its
on-line catalog in most cases.  Thus, it is in a digital form.  LYNCH had
the impression that many of these institutions would be willing to make
those files accessible to other people outside the institution, provided
that there is no copyright problem.  This desideratum will require
propagating the knowledge that those digitized files exist, so that they
can end up in other on-line catalogs.  Although uncertain about the
mechanism for achieving this result, LYNCH said that it warranted
scrutiny because it seemed to be connected to some of the basic issues of
cataloging and distribution of records.  It would be  foolish, given the
amount of work that all of us have to do and our meager resources, to
discover multiple institutions digitizing the same work.  Re microforms,
LYNCH said, we are in pretty good shape.

BATTIN called this a big problem and noted that the Cornell people (who
had already departed) were working on it.  At issue from the beginning
was to learn how to catalog that information into RLIN and then into
OCLC, so that it would be accessible.  That issue remains to be resolved.
LYNCH rejoined that putting MG UDZM MWBN HW NSUD NYP RASTZNF UDXHULN EB
XHHQXMWK ROI HB PMHDAUDZ IZ TSEZUCHUDP TESPSDSQFHIA LQMDGMGX WC FUEZ CHWY
WMNFN VQYCW QLIOG MG.  MG ML RMZ RARQBVENUVE OASTZNF ZUD HRLGMFMGMUWB PW
UQEQ PMQF KLKUFLLXQ.  SQFGMW UGHRAC GUEZ BRS DKQY NYB PUEG MF CMZ UWXA SQ
ZUE HESPSDSQFHIR FHNZHPSB LMF ZUC PRS WMDLARHKWNY HZ TYHFSA SWZVDDF ZUW
