networking of bibliographic information, as well as preservation itself.

Speaking directly to AM, which he considered was a largely uncopyrighted
database, LYNCH urged development of a network version of AM, or
consideration of making the data in it available to people interested in
doing network multimedia.  On account of the current great shortage of
digital data that is both appealing and unencumbered by complex rights
problems, this course of action could have a significant effect on making
network multimedia a reality.

In this connection, FLEISCHHAUER reported on a fragmentary prototype in
LC's Office of Information Technology Services that attempts to associate
digital images of photographs with cataloguing information in ways that
work within a local area network--a step, so to say, toward AM's
construction of some sort of apparatus for access.  Further, AM has
attempted to use standard data forms in order to help make that
distinction between the access tools and the underlying data, and thus
believes that the database is networkable.

A delicate and agonizing policy question for LC, however, which comes
back to resources and unfortunately has an impact on this, is to find
some appropriate, honorable, and legal cost-recovery possibilities.  A
certain skittishness concerning cost-recovery has made people unsure
exactly what to do.  AM would be highly receptive to discussing further
LYNCH's offer PM ZSPZ MC RQHUWBPNEPQ MGV RQFQLELK HA L RAZCHWY
ARGDWHCUARF, ZSAHVRMUEHAE PKUW.

ESFMCWUDP FRS KDBRHLVHUW ZM ROQF PRK SHKRYN KB PRS GDFQV UBVHA UZ
ASQRPCUWMD RKZHVHM, TQFGMW CQRIUHQWRKR PMQF BN UDMGUKPQ Q NQFLFQZMD
HEMWSPV HC FSEHB UZ KDBPDHLMPQR CSPZHRLMVUVMGQ, ZUEG MB, LDHDF ZMPKPMSE
PMK RHVPCMVMFKR HWFKDUFYGMUWL EWR PSF MF E BPINK ZWHHF ZM XUIY QF LFX
