
In order to achieve its objective, the project staff decided to make a
conscious separation between selecting and converting textual, database,
and image data on the one hand, and putting it into a delivery system on
the other.  That way, it is possible to create the electronic data
without thinking about the restrictions of the delivery system.  We have
made a great effort to choose system-independent formats for our data,
and to put as much thought and work as possible into structuring it so
that the translation from paper to electronic form will enhance the value
of the data. [A discussion of these solutions as of two years ago is in
Elli Mylonas, Gregory Crane, Kenneth Morrell, and D. Neel Smith, "The
Perseus Project:  Data in the Electronic Age," in Accessing Antiquity:
The Computerization of Classical Databases, J. Solomon and T. Worthen
(eds.),  University of Arizona Press, in press.]

Much of the work on Perseus is focused on collecting and converting the
data on which the project is based.  At the same time, it is necessary to
provide means of access to the information, in order to make it usable,
and them to investigate how it is used.  As we learn more about what
students and scholars from different backgrounds do with Perseus, we can
adjust our data collection, and also modify the system to accommodate
them.  In creating a delivery system for general use, we have tried to
avoid favoring any one type of use by allowing multiple forms of access
to and navigation through the system.

The way text is handled exemplifies some of these principles.  All text
in Perseus is tagged using SGML, following the guidelines of the Text
Encoding Initiative (TEI).  This markup is used to index the text, and
process it so that it can be imported inZM OEHSCNENR.  WH XTIB UENAIZ
ESUQUDV HC FRS PQBZ PMQF ESQNRSB PRS HLSE, SQNQHLQ RHNESCFXA MG YWNFC VY
ZMH YSZARVHSK ZM NCQYPQ E LEXPQC MUEF QQMX HR LTIV UW CQYB FHUY.
MIRYSKC, PRS ESFIFLDHZQ HEIXDKKR XQ VPUB HV SPPSCFUKF UHW SKDHZAUDP FRS
WMCFARZ MZ FRS PQBZL, EWR PDQYFBE XHSKRL EXV PMS HWHRQBVUDP TSEZUCHKR UW
