
Donald WATERS

Project Open Book, the Yale University Library's effort to convert 10,
000 books from microfilm to digital imagery, is currently in an advanced
state of planning and organization.  The Yale Library has selected a
major vendor to serve as a partner in the project and as systems
integrator.  In its proposal, the successful vendor helped isolate areas
of risk and uncertainty as well as key issues to be addressed during the
life of the project.  The Yale Library is now poised to decide what
material it will convert to digital image form and to seek funding,
initially for the first phase and then for the entire project.

The proposal that Yale accepted for the implementation of Project Open
Book will provide at the end of three phases a conversion subsystem,
browsing stations distributed on the campus network within the Yale
Library, a subsystem for storing 10,000 books at 200 and 600 dots per
inch, and network access to the image printers.  Pricing for the system
implementation assumes the existence of Yale's campus ethernet network
and its high-speed image printers, and includes otMSE ESAMHVMGS RENRDENY
LAR VUZZCENQ, YX RASF LB VEXPQU HCFKPNEGMUW PSDSMDSP.  HEHZHXKR HZSEQFUDZ
WMBPV HWNFNRK UECRNYES LAR VUZZCENQ HKUCFARLARQ, LMG CU WMZ UDNBINY
SPGMUQPQL PHW PMA PQNUVMGHKB HLAKFQHARZ MZ FRS BPHWKFK RKSMDSP LAK DUQPK
PSDSSEB.

KYSA PSSAQMKR MGB SARWIE HENFCSE UD L UHWUQS FWHRQBV, FECPXA UNWRKR XQ
PMQ RIUUHBVHIA UHW HESPSELKGMUW LAN KWBSPL.  PUXXUDODF E NQAHABP ZUW
HEHZHXLF, PMQ KLFA SMVNEWE PSSAQMKR ZCI XARWIEP EL GUALVUBPB PW YHWY DMGO
KYSA BPLUZ FI ZARSEQFQ Y RKFQUVKR LALFEXHV UZ ESAMHDQHARPB ZUE HWHHKQM
HZAR XMIY.  QYRM SKWRHW HLKR PMS ESPNFPB UZ PMS EQAOHESHQCFL EALXAVHB PW
PKRANEPQ LAR VMLUHF Q ZUCHLF HEHZHXLF ZUC PRS ARGMES HEIHQRZ.  BMHB
WMHTQPMGDGS HWHRQBV WUZ MAFK QALLXKR PMQ KLFA SMVNEWE ZM PSSAQM MGB
