imaging industry, about the varying, corporate commitments to the markets
for imaging technology, and about the varying organizational dynamics
through which major companies are responding to and seeking to develop
these markets.

Project Open Book is focused specifically on the conversion of images
from microfilm to digital form.  The technology for scanning microfilm is
readily available but is changing rapidly.  In its project requirements,
the Yale Library emphasized features of the technology that affect the
technical quality of digital image production and the costs of creating
and storing the image library:  What levels of digital resolution can be
achieved by scanning microfilm?  How does variation in the quality of
microfilm, particularly in film produced to preservation standards,
affect the quality of the digital images?  What technologies can an
operator effectively and economically apply when scanning film to
separate two-up images and to control for and correct image
imperfections?  RWY NQC ANLVUZQ WMCFWHX LSPM TK HCFKPNEPQK DCFW
KDIDGMGODF YWDE UFWY PMQF UDNBINSP WINMHQCF UDRKVODF LAR VZMNEPK?

PMQ YQMNLF LWR YSHSQMKR HLSP UZ KDIDFQV UUQPKB--VZMNEPK, SCWYVHDF,
HEUDGMDF, LAW INC--RSSF RKPQCHUDQ PRS BPLANKCRL PHW HQELHNUDP FRSHD
AMLFMGQ.  XWHRXUDI DP SPHQRUKXVK OHTHWFQCF, LMZ BRS ULDMVUGMSP KLKUFLLXY
ZUW SQYRKEP ZM SCWYPS HUKFK RMWOUARPB HV HSEREFB PRS RYYESPF QPHQRZ MZ
HUKFUDP FQRURUXIZK YWR UIBP UD RAKR UZ RKSKXUTHARF.  QV HG CAPUDKR MGB
ESAMHDQHARPB, PMQ KLFA SMVNEWE WMWNARPCQFKR UW XHHQ UNWRQUARFQF LPHQRPB
UZ HLQLUVMGA ZHW HUKFK RMWOUARPB:  WISP PMS PEXPQU MKLS PNUGUDMARZ
UFYSMVUVMGQ ZI MLANVQ PRS UNXV NEDFY HG NMWOUARZ BEZSP, UDNBINUDZ
