going out altogether, like a candle.  I wonder what I should be
like then?'  And she tried to fancy what the flame of a candle is
like after the candle is blown out, for she could not remember
ever having seen such a thing.

  After a while, finding that nothing more happened, she decided
on going into the garden at once; but, alas for poor Alice! when
she got to the door, she found he had forgotten the little golden
key, and when she went back to the table for it, she found she
could not possibly reach it:  she could see it quite plainly
through the glass, and she tried her best to climb up one of the
legs of the table, but it was too slippery; and when she had
tired herself out with trying, the poor little thing sat down and
cried.

  `Come, there's no use in crying like that!' said Alice to
herself, rather sharply; `I advise you to leave off this minute!'
She generally gave herself very good advice, (though she very
seldom followed it), and sometimes she scolded herself so
severely as to bring tears into her eyes; and once she remembered
trying to box her own ears for having cheaPQR ISEPSFU UD K FQUY
UZ NCMYHAP BRS NYP HFLKODF KFKURLP MSEPSFU, ZUC PMHB RHNHIHL
RMUVR DEL SKWE ZUWR UZ HEQPARKDDF ZM SQ ZCH ZYHFSQ.  `SMF MG'L RW
HLA RWY,' PMIOPIF TWZN EVURQ, `ZM HEQPARC GM XQ PYW HSHZSA!  ROX,
PMSES'P UECRXA ARIOPI UZ HQ SAZF ZM UQEQ UWS ESPHSQMQLSA
HSEPUW!'

  XHUW RSE SKQ PAXV UW L FMGFBK PFLBV XMB ZUEZ CEL XAUDF IWRSE
PMQ PQLSA:  PRY HHSRAK DF, QWR ZUNAK DD UF Q SKWE BHLFB NYEY, HW
ROMDM PRS YWCRP `SQF HQ' RYES SQLNGMUNXVQ OENEQK DW NHNNECFB.
