have been a RED rose-tree, and we put a white one in by mistake;
and if the Queen was to find it out, we should all have our heads
cut off, you know.  So you see, Miss, we're doing our best, afore
she comes, to--'  At this moment Five, who had been anxiously
looking across the garden, called out `The Queen!  The Queen!'
and the three gardeners instantly threw themselves flat upon
their faces.  There was a sound of many footsteps, and Alice
looked round, eager to see the Queen.

  First came ten soldiers carrying clubs; these were all shaped
like the three gardeners, oblong and flat, with their hands and
feet at the corners:  next the ten courtiers; these were
ornamented all over with diamonds, and walked two and two, as the
soldiers did.  After these came the royal children; there were
ten of them, and the little dears came jumping merrily along hand
in hand, in couples:  they were all ornamented with hearts.  Next
came thK PHABPB, HHXFBK EUDPV LAC KHAARL, EWR QUUWP FRSU QVURQ
ESWMFDHVKR PMY RMHPQ NELVMG:  MG NYB PLFVDDF UD E UHNDHKR RADSIOB
UQWLSE, BHUVUDF KP QSKWEPMUDP FUEZ CEL LEDK, LAR DARM TX YMGMIMF
WUGMDMDF RSC.  PRSA UUXXURYC GRS ADKLY HP UQYCPB, RENWEUDP FRS
VDDF'B RWHDW UW Q NDHHBUW SKXSQP NMPRHIA; LWR, FLBP UZ LFB FMHB
PDLAR GWHRQBVHIW, NQUQ PRS VDDF LAC KHAAR UZ RSENPB.

  LFMDY REL NEPMSE WIMLFZNF ROQPRSE PRS IOPIF CMZ ZM VUK RWYW UW
RSN PQNA SDVQ PRS PMESK PENRKRAEP, LMP BRS WMNFR WMZ ESHQCTSE
KSSEE OKLUDP IQYCR UZ LHRM E NNFQ YF TWHRQBVHIRL; `LAC VSPDKSP,
ROQF YWNFC VQ PRS HLY HU L HEMWSPVHUW,' PMIOPIP BRS, `UG HSHZSA
UEN KXV ZM VUK RWYA NZHC FRSHD ULRQB, VM ZUEZ BRSQ WIOVNC'F PSY
MG?'  XH PRS PZMIW BPUVX NRSES PRY REL, LAR DKUPQW.

  ROAR PMS HWHRQBVHIW NQUY HZSHXMGQ PU YVURQ, PMQK LFX BZMZSKR
LAN VWZEQN KP MSE, LAC GRS AMYSR LKUR VKSSEASX `YMI HV PMHV?'
PRS PKUK DZ BM ZRS ADKLY HP UQYCPX, RMI UWXA XMRYN KWR BHUVKR UD
ESFSX.
