(SAIC).  NATDP also created bibliographic records for access.  (NATDP did
not have such specialized equipment as a microfilm scanner.

Unfortunately, the process of scanning from microfilm was not an
unqualified success, ZIDAR reported:  because microfilm frame sizes vary,
occasionally some frames were missed, which without spending much time
and money could not be recaptured.

OCR could not be performed from the scanned images of the frames.  The
bleeding in the text simply output text, when OCR was run, that could not
even be edited.  NATDP tested for negative versus positive images,
landscape versus portrait orientation, and single- versus dual-page
microfilm, none of which seemed to affect the quality of the image; but
also on none of them could OCR be performed.

In selecting the microfilm they would use, therefore, NATDP had other
factors in mind.  ZIDAR noted two factors that influenced the quality of
the images:  1) the inherent quality of the original and 2) the amount of
size reduction on the pages.

The Carver papers were selected because they are informative and visually
interesting, treat a single subject, and are valuable in their own right.
The images were scanned and divided into logical records by SAIC, then
delivered, and loaded onto NATDP's system, where bibliographic
information taken directly from the images was added.  Scanning was
completed in summer 1991 and by the end of summer 1992 the disk was
scheduled to be published.

Problems encountered during processing included the following:  Because
the microfilm scanning had to be done in a batch, adjustment for
individual page variations was not possible.  The frame size varied on
account of the nature of the material, and therefore some of the frames
were missed while others were just partial frames.  The only way to go
back and capture this material was to print out the page with the
microfilm reader from the missing frame and then scan it in from the
page, which was extremely time-consuming.  The quality of the images
scanned from the printout of the microfilm compared unfavorably with that
of the original images captured directly from the microfilm.  The
inability to perform OCR also was a major disappointment.  At the time,
computer output microfilm was unavailable to test.

The equipment used for a scanning system was the last topic addressed by
ZIDAR.  The type of equipment that one would purchase for a scanning
system included:  a microcomputer, at least a 386, but preferably a 486;
a large hard disk, 380 megabyte at minimum; a multi-tasking operating
system that allows one to run some things in batch in the background
while scanning or doing text editing, for example, Unix or OS/2 and,
theoretically, Windows; a high-speed scanner and scanning software that
allows one to make the various adjustments mentioned earlier; a
high-resolution monitor (150 dpi ); OCR software and hardware to perform
text recognition; an optical disk subsystem on which to archive all the
images as the processing is done; file management and tracking software.

ZIDAR opined that the software one purchases was more important than the
hardware and might also cost more than the hardware, but it was likely to
prove critical to the success or failure of one's system.  In addition to
a stand-alone scanning workstation for image capture, then, text capture
requires one or two editing stations networked to this scanning station
to perform editing.  Editing the text takes two or three times as long as
capturing the images.

Finally, ZIDAR stressed the importance of buying an open system that allows
for more than one vendor, complies with standards, and can be upgraded.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
WATERS *Yale University Library's master plan to convert microfilm to
digital imagery (POB) * The place of electronic tools in the library of
the future * The uses of images and an image library * Primary input from
preservation microfilm * Features distinguishing POB from CXP and key
hypotheses guiding POB * Use of vendor selection process to facilitate
organizational work * Criteria for selecting vendor * Finalists and
results of process for Yale * Key factor distinguishing vendors *
Components, design principles, and some estimated costs of POB * Role of
preservation materials in developing imaging market * Factors affecting
quality and cost * Factors affecting the usability of complex documents
in image form *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Donald WATERS, head of the Systems Office, Yale University Library,
reported on the progress of a master plan for a project at Yale to
convert microfilm to digital imagery, Project Open Book (POB).  Stating
that POB was in an advanced stage of planning, WATERS detailed, in
particular, the process of selecting a vendor partner and several key
issues under discussion as Yale prepares to move into the project itself.
He commented first on the vision that serves as the context of POB and
then described its purpose and scope.

WATERS sees the library of the future not necessarily as an electronic
library but as a place that generates, preserves, and improves for its
clients ready access to both intellectual and physical recorded
knowledge.  Electronic tools must find a place in the library in the
context of this vision.  Several roles for electronic tools include
serving as:  indirect sources of electronic knowledge or as "finding"
aids (the on-line catalogues, the article-level indices, registers for
documents and archives); direct sources of recorded knowledge; full-text
images; and various kinds of compound sources of recorded knowledge (the
so-called compound documents of Hypertext, mixed text and image,
mixed-text image format, and multimedia).

POB is looking particularly at images and an image library, the uses to
which images will be put (e.g., storage, printing, browsing, and then use
as input for other processes), OCR as a subsequent process to image
capture, or creating an image library, and also possibly generating
microfilm.

While input will come from a variety of sources, POB is considering
especially input from preservation microfilm.  A possible outcome is that
the film and paper which provide the input for the image library
eventually may go off into remote storage, and that the image library may
be the primary access tool.

The purpose and scope of POB focus on imaging.  Though related to CXP,
POB has two features which distinguish it:  1) scale--conversion of
10,000 volumes into digital image form; and 2) source--conversion from
microfilm.  Given these features, several key working hypotheses guide
POB, including:  1) Since POB is using microfilm, it is not concerned with
the image library as a preservation medium.  2) Digital imagery can improve
access to recorded knowledge through printing and network distribution at
a modest incremental cost of microfilm.  3) Capturing and storing documents
in a digital image form is necessary to further improvements in access.
(POB distinguishes between the imaging, digitizing process and OCR,
which at this stage it does not plan to perform.)

Currently in its first or organizational phase, POB found that it could
use a vendor selection process to facilitate a good deal of the
organizational work (e.g., creating a project team and advisory board,
confirming the validity of the plan, establishing the cost of the project
and a budget, selecting the materials to convert, and then raising the
necessary funds).

POB developed numerous selection criteria, including:  a firm committed
to image-document management, the ability to serve as systems integrator
in a large-scale project over several years, interest in developing the
requisite software as a standard rather than a custom product, and a
willingness to invest substantial resources in the project itself.

Two vendors, DEC and Xerox, were selected as finalists in October 1991,
and with the support of the Commission on Preservation and Access, each
was commissioned to generate a detailed requirements analysis for the
project and then to submit a formal proposal for the completion of the
project, which included a budget and costs. The terms were that POB would
pay the loser.  The results for Yale of involving a vendor included:
broad involvement of Yale staff across the board at a relatively low
cost, which may have long-term significance in carrying out the project
(twenty-five to thirty university people are engaged in POB); better
understanding of the factors that affect corporate response to markets
for imaging products; a competitive proposal; and a more sophisticated
view of the imaging markets.

The most important factor that distinguished the vendors under
consideration was their identification with the customer.  The size and
internal complexity of the company also was an important factor.  POB was
looking at large companies that had substantial resources.  In the end,
the process generated for Yale two competitive proposals, with Xerox's
the clear winner.  WATERS then described the components of the proposal,
the design principles, and some of the costs estimated for the process.

Components are essentially four:  a conversion subsystem, a
network-accessible storage subsystem for 10,000 books (and POB expects
200 to 600 dpi storage), browsing stations distributed on the campus
network, and network access to the image printers.

Among the design principles, POB wanted conversion at the highest
