CDROM product in a public place such as a public library  The reverse
side of public performance is something called the right of public
display  Moral rights also exist which at the federal level apply only
to very limited visual works of art but in theory may apply under
contract and other principles  Moral rights may include the right of an
author to have his or her name on a work the right of attribution and
the right to object to distortion or mutilationthe right of integrity

The way copyright law is worded gives much latitude to activities such as
preservation to use of material for scholarly and research purposes when
the user does not make multiple copies and to the generation of
facsimile copies of unpublished works by libraries for themselves and
other libraries  But the law does not allow anyone to become the
distributor of the product for the entire world  In todays electronic
environment publishers are extremely concerned that the entire world is
networked and can obtain the information desired from a single copy in a
single library  Hence if there is to be only one sale which publishers
may choose to live with they will obtain their money in other ways for
example from access and use  Hence the development of site licenses
and other kinds of agreements to cover what publishers believe they
should be compensated for  Any solution that the United States takes
today has to consider the international arena

Noting that the United States is a member of the Berne Convention and
subscribes to its provisions PETERS described the permissions process
She also defined compulsory licenses  A compulsory license of which the
United States has had a few builds into the law the right to use a work
subject to certain terms and conditions  In the international arena
however the ability to use compulsory licenses is extremely limited
Thus clearinghouses and other collectives comprise one option that has
succeeded in providing for use of a work  Often overlooked when one
begins to use copyrighted material and put products together is how
expensive the permissions process and managing it is  According to
PETERS the price of copyright in a digital medium whatever solution is
worked out will include managing and assembling the database  She
strongly recommended that publishers and librarians or people with
various backgrounds cooperate to work out administratively feasible
systems in order to produce better results

In the lengthy questionandanswer period that followed PETERSs
presentation the following points emerged

      The Copyright Office maintains that anything mechanical and
     GLGZOOB VCSZFHGREV KILYZYOB RH MLG KILGVXGVW  RM GSV VEVMG GSZG
     DSZG ZM RMWRERWFZO WRW RM WVEVOLKRMT KLGVMGRZOOB XLKBIRTSGZYOV
     NZGVIRZO RH MLG FMWVIHGLLW GSV XLKBIRTSG LUURXV DROO ZHP ZYLFG GSV
     XIVZGREV XSLRXVH GSV ZKKORXZMG XSLHV GL NZPV LI MLG GL NZPV  ZH Z
     KIZXGRXZO NZGGVI RU LMV YVORVEVH HSV LI SV SZH NZWV VMLFTS LU GSLHV
     XSLRXVH GSZG KVIHLM SZH Z IRTSG GL ZHHVIG Z XLKBIRTSG ZMW HLNVLMV
     VOHV NFHG ZHHVIG GSZG GSV DLIP RH MLG XLKBIRTSGZYOV  GSV NLIV
     NVXSZMRXZO GSV NLIV ZFGLNZGRX Z GSRMT RH GSV OVHH ORPVOB RG RH GL
     YV XLKBIRTSGZYOV

      MVZIOB ZOO KSLGLTIZKSH ZIV WVVNVW GL YV XLKBIRTSGZYOV YFG ML LMV
