
The Xerox prototype scanning system provided a number of important
features for capturing this diverse material  Technicians used multiple
threshold settings filters line art and halftone definitions
autosegmentation windowing and softwareediting programs to optimize
image capture  At the same time this project focused on production
The goal was to make scanning as affordable and acceptable as
photocopying and microfilming for preservation reformatting  A
timeandcost study conducted during the last three months of this
project confirmed the economic viability of digital scanning and these
findings will be discussed here

From the outset the Cornell Xerox Project was predicated on the use of
nonproprietary standards and the use of common protocols when standards
did not exist  Digital files were created as TIFF images which were
compressed prior to storage using Group  CCITT compression  The Xerox
software is MS DOS based and utilizes offthe shelf programs such as
Microsoft Windows and Wang Image Wizard  The digital library is designed
to be hardwareindependent and to provide interchangeability with other
institutions through network connections  Access to the digital files
themselves is twotiered  Bibliographic records for the computer files
are created in RLIN and Cornells local system and access into the actual
digital images comprising a book is provided through a document control
structure and a networked image fileserver both of which will be
described

The presentation will conclude with a discussion of some of the issues
surrounding the use of this technology as a preservation tool storage
refreshing backup

Pamela ANDRE and Judith ZIDAR

The National Agricultural Library NAL has had extensive experience with
raster scanning of printed materials  Since  the Library has
participated in the National Agricultural Text Digitizing Project NATDP
a cooperative effort between NAL and fortyfive land grant university
libraries  An overview of the project will be presented giving its
history and NALs strategy for the future

An indepth discussion of NATDP will follow including a description of
the scanning process from the gathering of the printed materials to the
archiving of the electronic pages  The type of equipment required for a
standalone scanning workstation and the importance of file management
software will be discussed  Issues concerning the images themselves will
be addressed briefly such as image format black and white versus color
gray scale versus dithering and resolution

Also described will be a study currently in progress by NAL to evaluate
the usefulness of converting microfilm to electronic images in order to
improve access  With the cooperation of Tuskegee University NAL has
selected three reels of microfilm from a collection of sixtyseven reels
containing the papers letters and drawings of George Washington Carver
The three reels were converted into  electronic images using a
specialized microfilm scanner  The selection filming and indexing of
this material will be discussed

Donald WATERS

Project Open Book the Yale University Librarys effort to convert 
 books from microfilm to digital imagery is currently in an advanced
state of planning and organization  The Yale Library has selected a
major vendor to serve as a partner in the project and as systems
integrator  In its proposal the successful vendor helped isolate areas
of risk and uncertainty as well as key issues to be addressed during the
life of the project  The Yale Library is now poised to decide what
material it will convert to digital image form and to seek funding
initially for the first phase and then for the entire project

The proposal that Yale accepted for the implementation of Project Open
Book will provide at the end of three phases a conversion subsystem
browsing stations distributed on the campus network within the Yale
Library a subsystem for storing  books at  and  dots per
inch and network access to the image printers  Pricing for the system
implementation assumes the existence of Yales campus ethernet network
and its highspeed image printers and includes other requisite hardware
and software as well as system integration services  Proposed operating
costs include hardware and software maintenance but do not include
estimates for the facilities management of the storage devices and image
servers

Yale selected its vendor partner in a formal process partly funded by
the Commission for Preservation and Access  Following a request for
proposal the Yale Library selected two vendors as finalists to work with
Yale staff to generate a detailed analysis of requirements for Project
Open Book  Each vendor used the results of the requirements analysis to
generate and submit a formal proposal for the entire project  This
competitive process not only enabled the Yale Library to select its
primary vendor partner but also revealed much about the state of the
imaging industry about the varying corporate commitments to the markets
for imaging technology and about the varying organizational dynamics
through which major companies are responding to and seeking to develop
these markets

Project Open Book is focused specifically on the conversion of images
from microfilm to digital form  The technology for scanning microfilm is
readily available but is changing rapidly  In its project requirements
the Yale Library emphasized features of the technology that affect the
technical quality of digital image production and the costs of creating
and storing the image library  What levels of digital resolution can be
achieved by scanning microfilm?  How does variation in the quality of
microfilm particularly in film produced to preservation standards
affect the quality of the digital images?  What technologies can an
operator effectively and economically apply when scanning film to
separate twoup images and to control for and correct image
imperfections?  How can quality control best be integrated into
digitizing work flow that includes document indexing and storage?

The actual and expected uses of digital imagesstorage browsing
printing and OCRhelp determine the standards for measuring their
quality  Browsing is especially important but the facilities available
for readers to browse image documents is perhaps the weakest aspect of
imaging technology and most in need of development  As it defined its
requirements the Yale Library concentrated on some fundamental aspects
of usability for image documents  Does the system have sufficient
flexibility to handle the full range of document types including
monographs multipart and multivolume sets and serials as well as
manuscript collections?  What conventions are necessary to identify a
document uniquely for storage and retrieval?  Where is the database of
record for storing bibliographic information about the image document?
How are basic internal structures of documents such as pagination made
accessible to the reader?  How are the image documents physically
presented on the screen to the reader?

The Yale Library designed Project Open Book on the assumption that
microfilm is more than adequate as a medium for preserving the content of
deteriorated library materials  As planning in the project has advanced
it is increasingly clear that the challenge of digital image technology
and the key to the success of efforts like Project Open Book is to
provide a means of both preserving and improving access to those
deteriorated materials

SESSION IVB

George THOMA

In the use of electronic imaging for document preservation there are
several issues to consider such as  ensuring adequate image quality
maintaining substantial conversion rates throughput providing unique
identification for automated access and retrieval and accommodating
bound volumes and fragile material

To maintain high image quality image processing functions are required
to correct the deficiencies in the scanned image  Some commercially
available systems include these functions while some do not  The
scanned raw image must be processed to correct contrast deficiencies
both poor overall contrast resulting from light print andor dark
background and variable contrast resulting from stains and
bleedthrough  Furthermore the scan density must be adequate to allow
legibility of print and sufficient fidelity in the pseudohalftoned gray
material  Borders or pageedge effects must be removed for both
compactibility and aesthetics  Page skew must be corrected for aesthetic
reasons and to enable accurate character recognition if desired
Compound images consisting of both twotoned text and grayscale
illustrations must be processed appropriately to retain the quality of
each

SESSION IVC

Jean BARONAS

Standards publications being developed by scientists engineers and
business managers in Association for Information and Image Management
AIIM standards committees can be applied to electronic image management
EIM processes including  document image transfer retrieval and
evaluation optical disk and document scanning and document design and
conversion  When combined with EIM system planning and operations
standards can assist in generating image databases that are
interchangeable among a variety of systems  The applications of
different approaches for imagetagging indexing compression and
transfer often cause uncertainty concerning EIM system compatibility
calibration performance and upward compatibility until standard
implementation parameters are established  The AIIM standards that are
being developed for these applications can be used to decrease the
uncertainty successfully integrate imaging processes and promote "open
systems"  AIIM is an accredited American National Standards Institute
ANSI standards developer with more than twenty committees comprised of
 volunteers representing users vendors and manufacturers  The
standards publications that are developed in these committees have
national acceptance and provide the basis for international harmonization
in the development of new International Organization for Standardization
ISO standards

This presentation describes the development of AIIMs EIM standards and a
new effort at AIIM a database on standards projects in a wide framework
of imaging industries including capture recording processing
duplication distribution display evaluation and preservation  The
AIIM Imagery Database will cover imaging standards being developed by
many organizations in many different countries  It will contain
standards publications dates origins related national and
international projects status key words and abstracts  The ANSI Image
Technology Standards Board requested that such a database be established
as did the ISOInternational Electrotechnical Commission Joint Task Force
on Imagery  AIIM will take on the leadership role for the database and
coordinate its development with several standards developers

Patricia BATTIN

     Characteristics of standards for digital imagery

           Nature of digital technology implies continuing volatility

           Precipitous standardsetting not possible and probably not
          desirable

           Standards are a complex issue involving the medium the
          hardware the software and the technical capacity for
          reproductive fidelity and clarity

           The prognosis for reliable archival standards as defined by
          librarians in the foreseeable future is poor

     Significant potential and attractiveness of digital technology as a
     preservation medium and access mechanism

     Productive use of digital imagery for preservation requires a
     reconceptualizing of preservation principles in a volatile
     standardless world

     Concept of managing continuing access in the digital environment
     rather than focusing on the permanence of the medium and longterm
     archival standards developed for the analog world

     Transition period  How long and what to do?

            Redefine "archival"

            Remove the burden of "archival copy" from paper artifacts

            Use digital technology for storage develop management
          strategies for refreshing medium hardware and software

            Create acidfree paper copies for transition period backup
          until we develop reliable procedures for ensuring continuing
          access to digital files

SESSION IVD

Stuart WEIBEL            The Role of SGML Markup in the CORE Project 

The emergence of highspeed telecommunications networks as a basic
feature of the scholarly workplace is driving the demand for electronic
document delivery  Three distinct categories of electronic
publishingrepublishing are necessary to support access demands in this
emerging environment

       Conversion of paper or microfilm archives to electronic format
       Conversion of electronic files to formats tailored to
          electronic retrieval and display
       Primary electronic publishing materials for which the
          electronic version is the primary format

OCLC has experimental or product development activities in each of these
areas  Among the challenges that lie ahead is the integration of these
three types of information stores in coherent distributed systems

The CORE Chemistry Online Retrieval Experiment Project is a model for
the conversion of large text and graphics collections for which
electronic typesetting files are available category   The American
Chemical Society has made available computer typography files dating from
 for its twenty journals  This collection of some  journalyears
is being converted to an electronic format that will be accessible
through several enduser applications

The use of Standard Generalized Markup Language SGML offers the means
to capture the structural richness of the original articles in a way that
will support a variety of retrieval navigation and display options
necessary to navigate effectively in very large text databases

An SGML document consists of text that is marked up with descriptive tags
that specify the function of a given element within the document  As a
formal language construct an SGML document can be parsed against a
documenttype definition DTD that unambiguously defines what elements
are allowed and where in the document they can or must occur  This
formalized map of article structure allows the user interface design to
be uncoupled from the underlying database system an important step
toward interoperability  Demonstration of this separability is a part of
the CORE project wherein user interface designs born of very difUVIVMG
KSROLHLKSRVH DROO ZXXVHH GSV HZNV WZGZYZHV

MLGVH
       GSV XLIV KILQVXG RH Z XLOOZYLIZGRLM ZNLMT XLIMVOO FMREVIHRGBH
     NZMM ORYIZIB YVOO XLNNFMRXZGRLMH IVHVZIXS YVOOXLIV GSV ZNVIRXZM
     XSVNRXZO HLXRVGB ZXH GSV XSVNRXZO ZYHGIZXGH HVIERXV XZH ZMW
     LXOX

NRXSZVO OVHP                  GSV XLIV VOVXGILMRX XSVNRHGIB ORYIZIB

Z NZQLI LMORMV UROV LU XSVNRXZO QLFIMZO ORGVIZGFIV XLNKOVGV DRGS
TIZKSRXH RH YVRMT WVEVOLKVW GL GVHG GSV FHZYRORGB LU UFOOB VOVXGILMRX
ZXXVHH GL WLXFNVMGH ZH Z QLRMG KILQVXG LU XLIMVOO FMREVIHRGB GSV
ZNVIRXZM XSVNRXZO HLXRVGB GSV XSVNRXZO ZYHGIZXGH HVIERXV LXOX ZMW
YVOOXLIV DRGS ZWWRGRLMZO HFKKLIG UILN HFM NRXILHBHGVNH HKIRMTVIEVIOZT
WRTRGZR VJFRKNVMG XLIKLIZGRLM HLMB XLIKLIZGRLM LU ZNVIRXZ ZMW ZKKOV
XLNKFGVIH  LFI UROV XLMGZRMH GSV ZNVIRXZM XSVNRXZO HLXRVGBH LMORMV
QLFIMZOH HFKKOVNVMGVW DRGS GSV TIZKSRXH UILN GSV KZKVI KFYORXZGRLM  GSV
RMWVCRMT LU GSV ZIGRXOVH UILN XSVNRXZO ZYHGIZXGH WLXFNVMGH RH ZEZROZYOV
RM YLGS RNZTV ZMW GVCG ULINZG ZMW HVEVIZO WRUUVIVMG RMGVIUZXVH XZM YV
FHVW  LFI TLZOH ZIV  GL ZHHVHH GSV VUUVXGREVMVHH ZMW ZXXVKGZYRORGB LU
VOVXGILMRX ZXXVHH GL KIRNZIB QLFIMZOH ZH XLNKZIVW DRGS KZKVI ZMW  GL
RWVMGRUB GSV NLHG WVHRIZYOV UFMXGRLMH LU GSV FHVI RMGVIUZXV GL ZM
VOVXGILMRX HBHGVN LU QLFIMZOH RMXOFWRMT RM KZIGRXFOZI Z XLNKZIRHLM LU
KZTVRNZTV WRHKOZB DRGS ZHXRR WRHKOZB RMGVIUZXVH  VZIOB VCKVIRNVMGH DRGS
XSVNRHGIB HGFWVMGH LM Z EZIRVGB LU GZHPH HFTTVHG GSZG HVZIXSRMT GZHPH ZIV
XLNKOVGVW NFXS UZHGVI DRGS ZMB VOVXGILMRX HBHGVN GSZM DRGS KZKVI YFG
GSZG ULI IVZWRMT ZOO EVIHRLMH LU GSV ZIGRXOVH ZIV ILFTSOB VJFREZOVMG

KZNVOZ ZMWIV ZMW QFWRGS ARWZI

GVCG XLMEVIHRLM RH UZI NLIV VCKVMHREV ZMW GRNVXLMHFNRMT GSZM RNZTV
XZKGFIV ZOLMV  MZOH VCKVIRVMXV DRGS LKGRXZO XSZIZXGVI IVXLTMRGRLM LXI
DROO YV IVOZGVW ZMW XLNKZIVW DRGS GSV VCKVIRVMXV LU SZERMT GVCG IVPVBVW
DSZG UZXGLIH ZUUVXG LXI ZXXFIZXB?  SLD ZXXFIZGV WLVH UFOO GVCG SZEV GL YV
RM LIWVI GL YV FHVUFO?  SLD WL WRUUVIVMG FHVIH IVZXG GL RNKVIUVXG GVCG?
GSVHV ZIV JFVHGRLMH GSZG DROO YV VCKOLIVW  ULI NZMB Z HVIERXV YFIVZF
NZB YV Z YVGGVI HLOFGRLM GSZM KVIULINRMT GSV DLIP RMSLFHV GSRH DROO ZOHL
YV WRHXFHHVW

HVHHRLM ER

NZIBYVGS KVGVIH

XLKBIRTSG OZD KILGVXGH XIVZGREV DLIPH  KILGVXGRLM TIZMGVW YB GSV OZD GL
ZFGSLIH ZMW WRHHVNRMZGLIH LU DLIPH RMXOFWVH GSV IRTSG GL WL LI ZFGSLIRAV
GSV ULOOLDRMT  IVKILWFXV GSV DLIP KIVKZIV WVIREZGREV DLIPH WRHGIRYFGV
GSV DLIP GL GSV KFYORX ZMW KFYORXOB KVIULIN LI WRHKOZB GSV DLIP  RM
ZWWRGRLM XLKBIRTSG LDMVIH LU HLFMW IVXLIWRMTH ZMW XLNKFGVI KILTIZNH SZEV
GSV IRTSG GL XLMGILO IVMGZO LU GSVRI DLIPH  GSVHV IRTSGH ZIV MLG
FMORNRGVW GSVIV ZIV Z MFNYVI LU VCXVKGRLMH ZMW ORNRGZGRLMH

ZM VOVXGILMRX VMERILMNVMG KOZXVH HGIZRMH LM GSV XLKBIRTSG HBHGVN
XLKBIRTSG LDMVIH DZMG GL XLMGILO FHVH LU GSVRI DLIP ZMW YV KZRW ULI ZMB
FHV GSV KFYORX DZMGH JFRXP ZMW VZHB ZXXVHH ZG ORGGOV LI ML XLHG  GSV
NZIPVGKOZXV RH DLIPRMT RM GSRH ZIVZ  XLMGIZXGH TFRWVORMVH LM VOVXGILMRX
FHV ZMW XLOOVXGREV ORXVMHRMT ZIV RM FHV ZMW YVRMT IVURMVW

RHHFVH XLMXVIMRMT GSV ZYRORGB GL XSZMTV DLIPH DRGSLFG WVGVXGRLM ZIV NLIV
WRUURXFOG GL WVZO DRGS  JFVHGRLMH XLMXVIMRMT GSV RMGVTIRGB LU GSV DLIP
ZMW GSV HGZGFH LU GSV XSZMTVW EVIHRLM FMWVI GSV XLKBIRTSG OZD ZIV GL YV
ZWWIVHHVW  GSVHV ZIV KFYORX KLORXB RHHFVH DSRXS IVJFRIV RMULINVW
WRZOLTFV


                                 


                ZKKVMWRC RRR  WRIVXGLIB LU KZIGRXRKZMGH


KIVHVMGVIH

     KZNVOZ JQ ZMWIV
     ZHHLXRZGV WRIVXGLI ZFGLNZGRLM
     MZGRLMZO ZTIRXFOGFIZO ORYIZIB
      YZOGRNLIV YLFOVEZIW
     YVOGHEROOV NW 
     KSLMV   
     UZC   
     VNZRO  RMGVIMVG  KZMWIVZHIIZIHFHWZTLE

     QVZM YZILMZH HVMRLI NZMZTVI
     WVKZIGNVMG LU HGZMWZIWH ZMW GVXSMLOLTB
     ZHHLXRZGRLM ULI RMULINZGRLM ZMW RNZTV NZMZTVNVMG ZRRN
      DZBMV ZEVMFV HFRGV 
     HROEVI HKIRMT NW 
     KSLMV   
     UZC   

     KZGIRXRZ YZGGRM KIVHRWVMG
     GSV XLNNRHHRLM LM KIVHVIEZGRLM ZMW ZXXVHH
      GS HGIVVG MD
     HFRGV 
     DZHSRMTGLM WX 
     KSLMV   
     UZC   
     VNZRO  XKZTDFENYRGMVG

     SLDZIW YVHHVI
     XVMGIV XZMZWRVM WZIXSRGVXGFIV
     XZMZWRZM XVMGVI ULI ZIXSRGVXGFIV
      IFV YZROV
     NLMGIVZO JFVYVX SS H
     XZMZWZ
     KSLMV   
     UZC   
     VNZRO  SLDZIWORHKRGGVWF

     VWDRM Y YILDMIRTT VCVXFGREV WRIVXGLI
     NVNVC IVHVZIXS RMHGRGFGV
      YLMRGZ ZEVMFV
     ILHVEROOV XZ 
     KSLMV   
     UZC   
     VNZRO  YRGMVG  NVNVCXZOHGZGV

     VIRX N XZOZOFXZ ERXV KIVHRWVMG
     XSZWDBXPSVZOVB RMX
      PRMT HGIVVG
     ZOVCZMWIRZ EZ O
     KSLMV   O
     UZC   

     QZNVH WZOB
      WVVKDLLW ILZW
     YZOGRNLIV NW 
     KSLMV   

     IRXPB VIDZB ZHHLXRZGV XLLIWRMZGLI
     ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB
     ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH
     KSLMV   
     UZC   

     XZIO UOVRHXSSZFVI XLLIWRMZGLI
     ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB
     ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH
     KSLMV   
     UZC   

     QLZMMV UIVVNZM
      QVUUVIHLM KZIP ZEVMFV ML 
     XSZIOLGGVHEROOV EZ  

     KILHHVI TRUULIW
     WRIVXGLI ULI HXSLOZIOB KILTIZNH
     ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH
     KSLMV   
     UZC   
     VNZRO  KTRUHVJOLXTLE

     QZXJFVORMV SVHH WRIVXGLI
     MZGRLMZO WVNLMHGIZGRLM OZYLIZGLIB
       ULI RMGVIZXGREV RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTRVH
     ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH
     KSLMV   
     UZC   

     HFHZM SLXPVB WRIVXGLI
     XVMGVI ULI VOVXGILMRX GVCGH RM GSV SFNZMRGRVH XVGS
     ZOVCZMWVI ORYIZIB
     IFGTVIH FMREVIHRGB
      XLOOVTV ZEVMFV
     MVD YIFMHDRXP MQ 
     KSLMV   
     UZC   
     VNZRO  SLXPVBALWRZXIFGTVIHVWF

     DROORZN O SLLGLM ERXV KIVHRWVMG
     YFHRMVHH  GVXSMRXZO WVEVOLKNVMG
       RNZTRMT  RMULINZGRLM HBHGVNH TILFK
     RMVG
      ILXPOVWTV WIREV HFRGV 
     YVGSVHWZ NW O
     KSLMV   
     UZC   

     ZMMV I PVMMVB ZHHLXRZGV WRIVXGLI
     WVKZIGNVMG LU KIVHVIEZGRLM ZMW XLMHVIEZGRLM
      LORM ORYIZIB
     XLIMVOO FMREVIHRGB
     RGSZXZ MB 
     KSLMV   
     UZC   
     VNZRO  OBWBXLIMVOOZYRGMVG

     ILMZOW O OZIHVM
     ZHHLXRZGV WRIVXGLI ULI RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTB
     FMREVIHRGB LU NZIBOZMW ZG XLOOVTV KZIP
     ILLN Y NXPVOWRM ORYIZIB
     XLOOVTV KZIP NW 
     KSLMV   
     UZC   
     VNZRO  IOZIHVMORYIFNWVWF

     NZIRZ O OVYILM NZMZTRMT VWRGLI
     GSV LMORMV QLFIMZO LU XFIIVMG XORMRXZO GIRZOH
     O S HGIVVG MD
     DZHSRMTGLM WX 
     KSLMV   
     UZC   
     VNZRO  KFYHZZZHTDFENYRGMVG

     NRXSZVO OVHP VCVXFGREV WRIVXGLI
     XLNKFGVI HXRVMXV IVHVZIXS
     YVOO XLNNFMRXZGRLMH IVHVZIXS RMX
     IN Z
      HLFGS HGIVVG
     NLIIRHGLDM MQ OO
     KSLMV   
     UZC   
     VNZRO  OVHPYVOOXLIVXLN RMGVIMVG LI YVOOXLIVOVHP FFXK

     XORUULIW Z OBMXS
     WRIVXGLI ORYIZIB ZFGLNZGRLM
     FMREVIHRGB LU XZORULIMRZ
        LUURXV LU GSV KIVHRWVMG
      OZPVHRWV WIREV GS UOLLI
     LZPOZMW XZ 
     KSLMV   
     UZC   
     VNZRO  XZOFIFXXNEHZ

     ZEIZ NRXSVOHLM
     MZGRLMZO ZIXSREVH ZMW IVXLIWH ZWNRMRHGIZGRLM
     MHA IN M
     GS  KVMMHBOEZMRZ MD
     DZHSRMTGLM WX 
     KSLMV   
     UZC   
     VNZRO  GNRXFMRSTLE

     VOOR NBOLMZH NZMZTRMT VWRGLI
     KVIHVFH KILQVXG
     WVKZIGNVMG LU GSV XOZHHRXH
     SZIEZIW FMREVIHRGB
      YLBOHGLM SZOO
     XZNYIRWTV NZ 
     KSLMV      WRIVXG
     UZC   
     VNZRO  VOORRPZILHSZIEZIWVWF LI VOORDQSSZIEZIWVWF

     WZERW DLLWOVB KZXPZIW
     KZXPZIW SFNZMRGRVH RMHGRGFGV
      HVXLMW HGIVVG HFRGV 
     OLH ZOGLH XZ 
     KSLMV    KSR
     UZC   

     OBMMV P KVIHLMRFH ZHHRHGZMG WRIVXGLI
     XLIMVOO RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTRVH ULI
      HXSLOZIOB RMULINZGRLM HLFIXVH
      LORM ORYIZIB
     XLIMVOO FMREVIHRGB
     RGSZXZ MB 
     KSLMV   
     UZC   
     VNZRO  QIMXLIMVOOXYRGMVG

     NZIBYVGS KVGVIH
     KLORXB KOZMMRMT ZWERHVI GL GSV
       IVTRHGVI LU XLKBIRTSGH
     ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH
     LUURXV ON 
     KSLMV   
     UZC   

     X NRXSZVO HKVIYVITNXJFVVM
     VWRGLI GVCG VMXLWRMT RMRGRZGREV
     XLNKFGVI XVMGVI NX 
     FMREVIHRGB LU ROORMLRH ZG XSRXZTL
     YLC 
     XSRXZTL RO 
     KSLMV   
     UZC   
     VNZRO  FFRXENXXFRXVWF LI FFRXENYRGMVG

     TVLITV I GSLNZ XSRVU
     XLNNFMRXZGRLMH VMTRMVVIRMT YIZMXS
     MZGRLMZO ORYIZIB LU NVWRXRMV
      ILXPEROOV KRPV
     YVGSVHWZ NW 
     KSLMV   
     UZC   
     VNZRO  GSLNZOSXMONMRSTLE

     WLILGSB GDLSRT VWRGLI
     GSV KZKVIH LU TVLITV DZHSRMTGLM
      ZOWVINZM ORYIZIB
     FMREVIHRGB LU ERITRMRZ
     XSZIOLGGVHEROOV EZ 
     KSLMV   
     UZC   

     HFHZM S EVXXRZ GVZN OVZWVI
     ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB FHVI VEZOFZGRLM
     ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH
     ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB VEZOFZGRLM KILQVXG
     KSLMV   
     UZC   
     VNZRO  HEVXHVJOLXTLE

     WLMZOW Q DZGVIH SVZW
     HBHGVNH LUURXV
     BZOV FMREVIHRGB ORYIZIB
     MVD SZEVM XG 
     KSLMV   
     UZC   
     VNZRO  WDZGVIHBZOVENYRGMVG LI WDZGVIHBZOVENBXXBZOVVWF

     HGFZIG DVRYVO HVMRLI IVHVZIXS HXRVMGRHG
     LXOX
      UIZMGA ILZW
     WFYORM LS 
     KSLMV   O
     UZC   
     VNZRO  RMGVIMVG  HGFIHXSLXOXLIT

     ILYVIG T ARXS
     HKVXRZO ZHHRHGZMG GL GSV ZHHLXRZGV ORYIZIRZM
       ULI HKVXRZO KILQVXGH
     ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH
     KSLMV   
     UZC   
     VNZRO  IARXHVJOLXTLE

     QFWRGS Z ARWZI XLLIWRMZGLI
     MZGRLMZO ZTIRXFOGFIZO GVCG WRTRGRARMT KILTIZN
     RMULINZGRLM HBHGVNH WRERHRLM
     MZGRLMZO ZTIRXFOGFIZO ORYIZIB
      YZOGRNLIV YLFOVEZIW
     YVOGHEROOV NW 
     KSLMV    LI 
     UZC   
     VNZRO  RMGVIMVG  QARWZIZHIIZIHFHWZTLE


LYHVIEVIH

     SVOVM ZTFVIZ KILTIZN LUURXVI
     WRERHRLM LU IVHVZIXS
     ILLN 
     MZGRLMZO VMWLDNVMG ULI GSV SFNZMRGRVH
      KVMMHBOEZMRZ ZEVMFV MD
     DZHSRMTGLM WX 
     KSLMV   
     UZC   

     N VOOBM YOZMGLM WVKFGB WRIVXGLI
     MZGRLMZO WVNLMHGIZGRLM OZYLIZGLIB
       ULI RMGVIZXGREV RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTRVH
     ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH
     KSLMV   
     UZC   

     XSZIOVH N WLOOZI
     MZGRLMZO ZIXSREVH ZMW IVXLIWH ZWNRMRHGIZGRLM
     MHA IN M
     GS  KVMMHBOEZMRZ MD
     DZHSRMTGLM WX 
     KSLMV   
     UZC   

     QVUUIVB URVOW WVKFGB GL GSV WRIVXGLI
     WRERHRLM LU KIVHVIEZGRLM ZMW ZXXVHH
     ILLN 
     MZGRLMZO VMWLDNVMG ULI GSV SFNZMRGRVH
      KVMMHBOEZMRZ ZEVMFV MD
     DZHSRMTGLM WX 
     KSLMV   
     UZC   

     OLIIRM TZIHLM
     ZNVIRXZM XSVNRXZO HLXRVGB
     IVHVZIXS ZMW WVEVOLKNVMG WVKZIGNVMG
      GS HGIVVG MD
     DZHSRMTGLM WX 
     KSLMV   
     UZC  VNZRO  RMGVIMVG  OITZXHLIT

     DROORZN N SLONVH QI
     MZGRLMZO ZIXSREVH ZMW IVXLIWH ZWNRMRHGIZGRLM
     MHA IN M
     GS  KVMMHBOEZMRZ MD
     DZHSRMTGLM WX 
     KSLMV   
     UZC   
     VNZRO  DSLONVHZNVIRXZMVWF

     HKVIORMT NZIGRM
     RMULINZGRLM IVHLFIXV NZMZTVNVMG
      WLLORGGOV HGIVVG
     TZRGSVIHYFIT NW 
     KSLMV   

     NRXSZVO MVFNZM WRIVXGLI
     GSV XVMGVI ULI GVCG ZMW GVXSMLOLTB
     ZXZWVNRX XLNKFGRMT XVMGVI
      IVRHH HXRVMXV YFROWRMT
     TVLITVGLDM FMREVIHRGB
     DZHSRMTGLM WX 
     KSLMV   
     UZC   
     VNZRO  MVFNZMTFEZCYRGMVG MVFNZMTFEZCTVLITVGLDMVWF

     YZIYZIZ KZFOHLM KILTIZN LUURXVI
     WRERHRLM LU KIVHVIEZGRLM ZMW ZXXVHH
     ILLN 
     MZGRLMZO VMWLDNVMG ULI GSV SFNZMRGRVH
      KVMMHBOEZMRZ ZEVMFV MD
     DZHSRMTGLM WX 
     KSLMV   
     UZC   

     ZOOVM S IVMVZI
     HVMRLI ZXZWVNRX KOZMMRMT ZMZOBHG
     YILDM FMREVIHRGB XLNKFGRMT ZMW RMULINZGRLM HVIERXVH
      DZGVINZM HGIVVG
     XZNKFH YLC 
     KILERWVMXV IR 
     KSLMV   
     UZC   
     VNZRO  YRGMVG  ZOOVMYILDMEN LI
     RMGVIMVG  ZOOVMYILDMENYILDMVWF

     HFHZM N HVEVIGHLM KIVHRWVMG
     XSZWDBXPSVZOVB RMX
      PRMT HGIVVG
     ZOVCZMWIRZ EZ O
     KSLMV   O
     UZC   

     UIZMP DRGSILD
     FH WVKZIGNVMG LU VWFXZGRLM
      MVD QVIHVB ZEVMFV MD
     DZHSRMTGLM WX 
     KSLMV   
     UZC   


OX HGZUU

     ORMWZ O ZIIVG
     NZXSRMVIVZWZYOV XLOOVXGRLMH IVZWRMT ILLN OQ 
      

     QLSM W YBIFN QI
     WVHXIRKGREV XZGZOLTRMT WRERHRLM ON 
      

     NZIB QZMV XZEZOOL
     HXRVMXV ZMW GVXSMLOLTB WRERHRLM OZ 
      

     HFHZM GSVZ WZERW
     XLMTIVHHRLMZO IVHVZIXS HVIERXV ON 
      

     ILYVIG WRVIPVI
     HVMRLI ZWERHVI ULI NFOGRNVWRZ ZXGRERGRVH ON 
      

     DROORZN D VOORH
     ZHHLXRZGV ORYIZIRZM ULI HXRVMXV ZMW GVXSMLOLTB ON 
      

     ILMZOW TVKSZIG
     NZMFHXIRKG WRERHRLM ON 
      

     QZNVH TIZYVI
     RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTB HVIERXVH ON T
      

     IRXS TIVVMURVOW
     ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB ON 
      

     IVYVXXZ TFVMGSVI
     MVGDLIP WVEVOLKNVMG ON 
      

     PVMMVGS V SZIIRH
     KIVHVIEZGRLM ON T
      

     HGZOVB SRGXSXLXP
     NZMFHXIRKG WRERHRLM ON 
      

     YLSWZM PZMGLI
     LUURXV LU HKVXRZO KILQVXGH ON 
      

     QLSM D PRNYZOO QI
     NZXSRMVIVZWZYOV XLOOVXGRLMH IVZWRMT ILLN OQ 
      

     YZHRO NZMMH
     RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTB HVIERXVH ON T
      

     HZOOB SZIG NXXZOOFN
     MVGDLIP WVEVOLKNVMG ON 
      

     WZMZ Q KIZGG
     KFYORHSRMT LUURXV ON 
      

     QZMV IRVUVMSZFHVI
     ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB ON 
      

     DROORZN A HXSVMXP
     XLOOVXGRLMH WVEVOLKNVMG ON 
      

     XSZMWIF Q HSZSZMR
     KIVHVIEZGRLM IVHVZIXS ZMW GVHGRMT LUURXV IG ON T
      

     DROORZN Q HRGGRT
     XLOOVXGRLMH WVEVOLKNVMG ON 
      

     KZFO HNRGS
     NZMFHXIRKG WRERHRLM ON 
      

     QZNVH O HGVEVMH
     RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTB HVIERXVH ON T
      

     PZIVM HGFZIG
     NZMFHXIRKG WRERHRLM ON 
      

     GZNZIZ HDLIZ
     KIVHVIEZGRLM NRXILURONRMT LUURXV ON T
      

     HZIZS GSLNZH
     XLOOVXGRLMH XZGZOLTRMT ON 
      


                                   VMW
      

MLGV  GSRH UROV SZH YVVM VWRGVW ULI FHV LM XLNKFGVI MVGDLIPH  GSRH
VWRGRMT IVJFRIVW GSV IVNLEZO LU WRZXIRGRXH FMWVIORMRMT ZMW ULMGH HFXS
ZH RGZORXH ZMW YLOW

PWV 

Z UVD LU GSV RGZORXH DSVM FHVW ULI VNKSZHRH DVIV IVKOZXVW YB XZKH NS

VMW LU GSV KILQVXG TFGVMYVIT VGVCG LU OLX DLIPHSLK LM VOVXGILMRX VGVCGH


GSRH RH GSV UVYIFZIB  KILQVXG TFGVMYVIT IVOVZHV LU

KZIZWRHV OLHG YB QLSM NROGLM

GSV LOWVHG VGVCG PMLDM GL KILQVXG TFGVMYVIT XZ 
RU BLF PMLD LU ZMB LOWVI LMVH KOVZHV OVG FH PMLD


RMGILWFXGRLM  LMV KZTV

GSRH VGVCG DZH LIRTRMZOOB XIVZGVW RM  ZXXLIWRMT GL WI
QLHVKS IZYVM LU JFVVMH XLOOVTV MB GL DSLN RG RH ZGGIRYFGVW YB
KILQVXG TFGVMYVIT  DV SZW SVZIW LU GSRH VGVCG ULI BVZIH YFG RG
DZH MLG FMGRO  GSZG DV ZXGFZOOB NZMZTVW GL GIZXP RG WLDM GL
Z HKVXRURX OLXZGRLM ZMW GSVM RG GLLP NLMGSH GL XLMERMXV KVLKOV
GL OVG FH SZEV Z XLKB GSVM NLIV NLMGSH ULI GSVN ZXGFZOOB GL WL
GSV XLKBRMT ZMW TVG RG GL FH  GSVM ZMLGSVI NLMGS GL XLMEVIG GL
HLNVGSRMT DV XLFOW NZHHZTV DRGS LFI UZELIRGV  RM WLH  ZUGVI
GSZG RH DZH LMOB Z NZGGVI LU WZBH GL TVG RG RMGL GSRH HSZKV BLF
DROO HVV YVOLD  GSV LIRTRMZO DZH LU XLFIHV RM XZKH LMOB ZMW
HL DVIV ZOO GSV LGSVI VGVCGH LU GSV H ZMW VZIOB H  WLMG
OVG ZMBLMV ULLO BLF RMGL GSRMPRMT ZMB VGVCG DRGS YLGS FKKVI ZMW
OLDVI XZHV RH ZM LIRTRMZO ZOO GSLHV LIRTRMZO KILQVXG TFGVMYVIT
VGVCGH DVIV ZOHL RM FKKVI XZHV ZMW DVIV GIZMHOZGVW LI IVDIRGGVM
NZMB GRNVH GL TVG GSVN RMGL GSVRI XFIIVMG XLMWRGRLM  GSVB SZEV
