
Having attended several sessions in an effort to gain a sense of what
people did and where copyright would affect their lives PETERS expressed
the following cautions

      If one takes and converts materials and puts them in new forms
     then from a copyright point of view one is creating something and
     will receive some rights

      However if what one is converting already exists a question
     immediately arises about the status of the materials in question

      Putting something in the public domain in the United States offers
     some freedom from anxiety but distributing it throughout the world
     on a network is another matter even if one has put it in the public
     domain in the United States  Re foreign laws very frequently a
     work can be in the public domain in the United States but protected
     in other countries  Thus one must consider all of the places a
     work may reach lest one unwittingly become liable to being faced
     with a suit for copyright infringement or at least a letter
     demanding discussion of what one is doing

PETERS reviewed copyright law in the United States  The US
Constitution effectively states that Congress has the power to enact
copyright laws for two purposes   to encourage the creation and
dissemination of intellectual works for the good of society as a whole
and significantly  to give creators and those who package and
disseminate materials the economic rewards that are due them

Congress strives to strike a balance which at times can become an
emotional issue  The United States has never accepted the notion of the
natural right of an author so much as it has accepted the notion of the
public good and the desirability of incentives to promote it  This state
of affairs however has created strains on the international level and
is the reason for several of the differences in the laws that we have
Today the United States protects almost every kind of work that can be
called an expression of an author  The standard for gaining copyright
protection is simply originality  This is a low standard and means that
a work is not copied from something else as well as shows a certain
minimal amount of authorship  One can also acquire copyright protection
for making a new version of preexisting material provided it manifests
some spark of creativity

However copyright does not protect ideas methods systemsonly the way
that one expresses those things  Nor does copyright protect anything
that is mechanical anything that does not involve choice or criteria
concerning whether or not one should do a thing  For example the
results of a process called declicking in which one mechanically removes
impure sounds from old recordings are not copyrightable  On the other
hand the choice to record a song digitally and to increase the sound of
violins or to bring up the tympani constitutes the results of conversion
that are copyrightable  Moreover if a work is protected by copyright in
the United States one generally needs the permission of the copyright
owner to convert it  Normally who will own the newthat is converted
material is a matter of contract  In the absence of a contract the
person who creates the new material is the author and owner  But people
do not generally think about the copyright implications until after the
fact  PETERS stressed the need when dealing with copyrighted works to
think about copyright in advance  Ones bargaining power is much greater
up front than it is down the road

PETERS next discussed works not protected by copyright for example any
work done by a federal employee as part of his or her official duties is
in the public domain in the United States  The issue is not wholly free
of doubt concerning whether or not the work is in the public domain
outside the United States  Other materials in the public domain include
any works published more than seventyfive years ago and any work
published in the United States more than twentyeight years ago whose
copyright was not renewed  In talking about the new technology and
putting material in a digital form to send all over the world PETERS
cautioned one must keep in mind that while the rights may not be an
issue in the United States they may be in different parts of the world
where most countries previously employed a copyright term of the life of
the author plus fifty years

PETERS next reviewed the economics of copyright holding  Simply
economic rights are the rights to control the reproduction of a work in
any form  They belong to the author or in the case of a work made for
hire the employer  The second right which is critical to conversion
is the right to change a work  The right to make new versions is perhaps
one of the most significant rights of authors particularly in an
electronic world  The third right is the right to publish the work and
the right to disseminate it something that everyone who deals in an
electronic medium needs to know  The basic rule is if a copy is sold
all rights of distribution are extinguished with the sale of that copy
The key is that it must be sold  A number of companies overcome this
obstacle by leasing or renting their product  These companies argue that
if the material is rented or leased and not sold they control the uses
of a work  The fourth right and one very important in a digital world
is a right of public performance which means the right to show the work
sequentially  For example copyright owners control the showing of a
CDROM product in a public place such as a public library  The reverse
side of public performance is something called the right of public
display  Moral rights also exist which at the federal level apply only
to very limited visual works of art but in theory may apply under
contract and other principles  Moral rights may include the right of an
author to have his or her name on a work the right of attribution and
the right to object to distortion or mutilationthe right of integrity

The way copyright law is worded gives much latitude to activities such as
preservation to use of material for scholarly and research purposes when
the user does not make multiple copies and to the generation of
facsimile copies of unpublished works by libraries for themselves and
other libraries  But the law WLVH MLG ZOOLD ZMBLMV GL YVXLNV GSV
WRHGIRYFGLI LU GSV KILWFXG ULI GSV VMGRIV DLIOW  RM GLWZBH VOVXGILMRX
VMERILMNVMG KFYORHSVIH ZIV VCGIVNVOB XLMXVIMVW GSZG GSV VMGRIV DLIOW RH
MVGDLIPVW ZMW XZM LYGZRM GSV RMULINZGRLM WVHRIVW UILN Z HRMTOV XLKB RM Z
HRMTOV ORYIZIB  SVMXV RU GSVIV RH GL YV LMOB LMV HZOV DSRXS KFYORHSVIH
NZB XSLLHV GL OREV DRGS GSVB DROO LYGZRM GSVRI NLMVB RM LGSVI DZBH ULI
VCZNKOV UILN ZXXVHH ZMW FHV  SVMXV GSV WVEVOLKNVMG LU HRGV ORXVMHVH
ZMW LGSVI PRMWH LU ZTIVVNVMGH GL XLEVI DSZG KFYORHSVIH YVORVEV GSVB
HSLFOW YV XLNKVMHZGVW ULI  ZMB HLOFGRLM GSZG GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH GZPVH
GLWZB SZH GL XLMHRWVI GSV RMGVIMZGRLMZO ZIVMZ

MLGRMT GSZG GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH RH Z NVNYVI LU GSV YVIMV XLMEVMGRLM ZMW
HFYHXIRYVH GL RGH KILERHRLMH KVGVIH WVHXIRYVW GSV KVINRHHRLMH KILXVHH
HSV ZOHL WVURMVW XLNKFOHLIB ORXVMHVH  Z XLNKFOHLIB ORXVMHV LU DSRXS GSV
FMRGVW HGZGVH SZH SZW Z UVD YFROWH RMGL GSV OZD GSV IRTSG GL FHV Z DLIP
HFYQVXG GL XVIGZRM GVINH ZMW XLMWRGRLMH  RM GSV RMGVIMZGRLMZO ZIVMZ
SLDVEVI GSV ZYRORGB GL FHV XLNKFOHLIB ORXVMHVH RH VCGIVNVOB ORNRGVW
GSFH XOVZIRMTSLFHVH ZMW LGSVI XLOOVXGREVH XLNKIRHV LMV LKGRLM GSZG SZH
HFXXVVWVW RM KILERWRMT ULI FHV LU Z DLIP  LUGVM LEVIOLLPVW DSVM LMV
YVTRMH GL FHV XLKBIRTSGVW NZGVIRZO ZMW KFG KILWFXGH GLTVGSVI RH SLD
VCKVMHREV GSV KVINRHHRLMH KILXVHH ZMW NZMZTRMT RG RH  ZXXLIWRMT GL
KVGVIH GSV KIRXV LU XLKBIRTSG RM Z WRTRGZO NVWRFN DSZGVEVI HLOFGRLM RH
DLIPVW LFG DROO RMXOFWV NZMZTRMT ZMW ZHHVNYORMT GSV WZGZYZHV  HSV
HGILMTOB IVXLNNVMWVW GSZG KFYORHSVIH ZMW ORYIZIRZMH LI KVLKOV DRGS
EZIRLFH YZXPTILFMWH XLLKVIZGV GL DLIP LFG ZWNRMRHGIZGREVOB UVZHRYOV
HBHGVNH RM LIWVI GL KILWFXV YVGGVI IVHFOGH

RM GSV OVMTGSB JFVHGRLMZMWZMHDVI KVIRLW GSZG ULOOLDVW KVGVIHH
KIVHVMGZGRLM GSV ULOOLDRMT KLRMGH VNVITVW

      GSV XLKBIRTSG LUURXV NZRMGZRMH GSZG ZMBGSRMT NVXSZMRXZO ZMW
     GLGZOOB VCSZFHGREV KILYZYOB RH MLG KILGVXGVW  RM GSV VEVMG GSZG
     DSZG ZM RMWRERWFZO WRW RM WVEVOLKRMT KLGVMGRZOOB XLKBIRTSGZYOV
     NZGVIRZO RH MLG FMWVIHGLLW GSV XLKBIRTSG LUURXV DROO ZHP ZYLFG GSV
     XIVZGREV XSLRXVH GSV ZKKORXZMG XSLHV GL NZPV LI MLG GL NZPV  ZH Z
     KIZXGRXZO NZGGVI RU LMV YVORVEVH HSV LI SV SZH NZWV VMLFTS LU GSLHV
     XSLRXVH GSZG KVIHLM SZH Z IRTSG GL ZHHVIG Z XLKBIRTSG ZMW HLNVLMV
     VOHV NFHG ZHHVIG GSZG GSV DLIP RH MLG XLKBIRTSGZYOV  GSV NLIV
     NVXSZMRXZO GSV NLIV ZFGLNZGRX Z GSRMT RH GSV OVHH ORPVOB RG RH GL
     YV XLKBIRTSGZYOV

      MVZIOB ZOO KSLGLTIZKSH ZIV WVVNVW GL YV XLKBIRTSGZYOV YFG ML LMV
     DLIIRVH ZYLFG GSVN NFXS YVXZFHV VEVIBLMV RH UIVV GL GZPV GSV HZNV
     RNZTV  GSFH Z KSLGLTIZKSRX XLKBIRTSG IVKIVHVMGH DSZG RH XZOOVW Z
     "GSRM" XLKBIRTSG  GSV KSLGLTIZKS RGHVOU NFHG YV WFKORXZGVW RM
     LIWVI ULI XLKBIRTSG GL YV ERLOZGVW

      GSV XLKBIRTSG LUURXV GZPVH GSV KLHRGRLM GSZG CIZBH ZIV MLG
     XLKBIRTSGZYOV YVXZFHV GSVB ZIV NVXSZMRXZO  RG  XZM YV ZITFVW
     DSVGSVI LI MLG RNZTV VMSZMXVNVMG RM HXZMMRMT XZM YV KILGVXGVW  LMV
     NFHG VCVIXRHV XZIV DRGS NZGVIRZO XIVZGVW DRGS KFYORX UFMWH ZMW
     TVMVIZOOB RM GSV KFYORX WLNZRM  ZM ZIGRXOV DIRGGVM YB Z UVWVIZO
     VNKOLBVV RU DIRGGVM ZH KZIG LU LUURXRZO WFGRVH RH MLG
     XLKBIRTSGZYOV  SLDVEVI XLMGILO LEVI Z HXRVMGRURX ZIGRXOV DIRGGVM
     YB Z MZGRLMZO RMHGRGFGVH LU SVZOGS TIZMGVV RV HLNVLMV DSL
     IVXVREVH NLMVB UILN GSV FH TLEVIMNVMG WVKVMWH LM MRS KLORXB  RU
     GSV TLEVIMNVMG ZTVMXB SZH ML KLORXB ZMW GSZG KLORXB XZM YV
     XLMGZRMVW RM RGH IVTFOZGRLMH GSV XLMGIZXG LI GSV TIZMG GSV
     ZFGSLI IVGZRMH XLKBIRTSG  RU Z KILERHRLM LU GSV XLMGIZXG TIZMG LI
     IVTFOZGRLM HGZGVH GSZG GSVIV DROO YV ML XLKBIRTSG GSVM RG WLVH MLG
     VCRHG  DSVM Z DLIP RH XIVZGVW XLKBIRTSG ZFGLNZGRXZOOB XLNVH RMGL
     VCRHGVMXV FMOVHH HLNVGSRMT VCRHGH GSZG HZBH RG WLVH MLG

      ZM VMSZMXVW VOVXGILMRX XLKB LU Z KIRMG XLKB LU ZM LOWVI IVUVIVMXV
     DLIP RM GSV KFYORX WLNZRM GSZG WLVH MLG XLMGZRM XLKBIRTSGZYOV MVD
     NZGVIRZO RH Z KFIVOB NVXSZMRXZO IVMWRGRLM LU GSV LIRTRMZO DLIP ZMW
     RH MLG XLKBIRTSGZYOV

      FHFZOOB DSVM Z DLIP VMGVIH GSV KFYORX WLNZRM MLGSRMT XZM IVNLEV
     RG  ULI VCZNKOV XLMTIVHH IVXVMGOB KZHHVW RMGL OZD GSV XLMXVKG LU
     ZFGLNZGRX IVMVDZO DSRXS NVZMH GSZG XLKBIRTSG LM ZMB DLIP KFYORHSVW
     YVGDVVM O ZMW O WLVH MLG SZEV GL YV IVMVDVW RM LIWVI GL
     IVXVREV Z HVEVMGBUREVBVZI GVIN  YFG ZMB DLIP MLG IVMVDVW YVULIV
      RH RM GSV KFYORX WLNZRM

      XLMXVIMRMT DSVGSVI LI MLG GSV FMRGVW HGZGVH PVVKH GIZXP LU DSVM
     ZFGSLIH WRV MLGSRMT DZH VEVI WLMV MLI RH ZMBGSRMT YVRMT WLMV ZG
     GSV NLNVMG YB GSV XLKBIRTSG LUURXV

      HLUGDZIV GSZG WIREVH Z NVXSZMRXZO KILXVHH RH RGHVOU XLKBIRTSGZYOV
     RU LMV XSZMTVH KOZGULINH GSV HLUGDZIV RGHVOU SZH Z XLKBIRTSG  GSV
     DLIOW RMGVOOVXGFZO KILKVIGB LITZMRAZGRLM DROO SLOW Z HBNKLHRFN 
     NZIXS GSILFTS  ZKIRO O ZG SZIEZIW FMREVIHRGB LM WRTRGZO
     GVXSMLOLTB ZMW DROO HGFWB GSRH VMGRIV RHHFV  RU LMV KFIXSZHVH Z
     XLNKFGVI HLUGDZIV KZXPZTV HFXS ZH NZXKZRMG ZMW XIVZGVH HLNVGSRMT
     MVD LMV IVXVREVH KILGVXGRLM LMOB ULI GSZG DSRXS SZH YVVM ZWWVW

KVGVIH ZWWVW GSZG LUGVM RM XLKBIRTSG NZGGVIH ILFTS QFHGRXV RH GSV
LFGXLNV ULI VCZNKOV RM XLOOVXGREV ORXVMHRMT ZHXZK RV ZNVIRXZM
