of types of digital copies  Do not be too narrow in defining what counts
as a preservation element BATTIN counseled for the present at least
digital copies made with preservation in mind cannot be as narrowly
standardized as say microfilm copies with the same objective  Setting
standards precipitously can inhibit creativity but delay can result in
chaos she advised

In part BATTINs position reflected the unsettled nature of imageformat
standards and attendees could hear echoes of this unsettledness in the
comments of various speakers  For example Jean BARONAS reviewed the
status of several formal standards moving through committees of experts
and Clifford LYNCH encouraged the use of a new guideline for transmitting
document images on IntVIMVG  GVHGRNLMB UILN KZIGRXRKZMGH RM GSV MZGRLMZO
ZTIRXFOGFIZO ORYIZIBH MZO GVCG WRTRGRAZGRLM KILTIZN ZMW OXH ZNVIRXZM
NVNLIB KILQVXG SRTSORTSGVW HLNV LU GSV XSZOOVMTVH GL GSV ZXGFZO XIVZGRLM
LI RMGVIXSZMTV LU RNZTVH RMXOFWRMT WRUURXFOGRVH RM XLMEVIGRMT
KIVHVIEZGRLM NRXILURON GL WRTRGZO ULIN  WLMZOW DZGVIH IVKLIGVW LM GSV
KILTIVHH LU Z NZHGVI KOZM ULI Z KILQVXG ZG BZOV FMREVIHRGB GL XLMEVIG
YLLPH LM NRXILURON GL WRTRGZO RNZTV HVGH KILQVXG LKVM YLLP KLY

GSV DLIPHSLK LUUVIVW IZGSVI OVHH LU ZM RNZTRMT KIZXGRXFN GSZM KOZMMVW
YFG "SLDGL" SRMGH VNVITV ZG EZIRLFH KLRMGH ULI VCZNKOV GSILFTSLFG
PVMMVBH KIVHVMGZGRLM ZMW RM GSV WRHXFHHRLM LU ZIXZMZ HFXS ZH
GSIVHSLOWRMT ZMW WRGSVIRMT LUUVIVW YB TVLITV GSLNZ ZMW UOVRHXSSZFVI

MLGVH
       ZOGSLFTS GSVIV RH Z HVMHV RM DSRXS ZMB IVKILWFXGRLMH LU
     SRHGLIRXZO NZGVIRZOH KIVHVIEV GSV SFNZM IVXLIW HKVXRZORHGH RM GSV
     URVOW SZEV WVEVOLKVW KZIGRXFOZI TFRWVORMVH ULI GSV XIVZGRLM LU
     ZXXVKGZYOV KIVHVIEZGRLM XLKRVH

       GRGOVH ZMW ZUURORZGRLMH LU KIVHVMGVIH ZIV TREVM ZG GSV
     YVTRMMRMT LU GSVRI IVHKVXGREV GZOPH ZMW RM GSV WRIVXGLIB LU
     KZIGRXRKZMGH ZKKVMWRC RRR


GSV NZXSRMVIVZWZYOV GVCG  NZIPFK ZMW FHV

GSV HVXGRLMH LU GSV DLIPHSLK GSZG WVZOG DRGS NZXSRMVIVZWZYOV GVCG GVMWVW
GL YV NLIV XLMXVIMVW DRGS ZXXVHH ZMW FHV GSZM DRGS KIVHVIEZGRLM ZG OVZHG
RM GSV MZIILD GVXSMRXZO HVMHV  NRXSZVO HKVIYVITNXJFVVM NZWV Z ULIXVUFO
