raster scanning of printed materials  Since  the Library has
participated in the National Agricultural Text Digitizing Project NATDP
a cooperative effort between NAL and fortyfive land grant university
libraries  An overview of the project will be presented giving its
history and NALs strategy for the future

An indepth discussion of NATDP will follow including a description of
the scanning process from the gathering of the printed materials to the
archiving of the electronic pages  The type of equipment required for a
standalone scanning workstation and the importance of file management
software will be discussed  Issues concerning the images themselves will
be addressed briefly such as image format black and white versus color
gray scale versus dithering and resolution

Also described will be a study currently in progress by NAL to evaluate
the usefulness of converting microfilm to electronic images in order to
improve access  With the cooperation of Tuskegee University NAL has
selected three reels of microfilm from a collection of sixtyseven reels
containing the papers letters and drawings of George Washington Carver
The three reels were converted into  electronic images using a
specialized microfilm scanner  The selection filming and indexing of
this material will be discussed

Donald WATERS

Project Open Book the Yale University Librarys effort to convert 
 books from microfilm to digital imagery is currently in an advanced
state of planning and organization  The Yale Library has selected a
major vendor to serve as a partner in the project and as systems
integrator  In its proposal the successful vendor helped isolate areas
of risk and uncertainty as well as key issues to be addressed during the
life of the project  The Yale Library is now poised to decide what
material it will convert to digital image form and to seek funding
initially for the first phase and then for the entire project

The proposal that Yale accepted for the implementation of Project Open
Book will provide at the end of three phases a conversion subsystem
browsing stations distributed on the campus network within the Yale
Library a subsystem for storing  books at  and  dots per
inch and network access to the image printers  Pricing for the system
implementation assumes the existence of Yales campus ethernet network
and its highspeed image printers and includes other requisite hardware
and software as well as system integration services  Proposed operating
costs include hardware and software maintenance but do not include
estimates for the facilities management of the storage devices and image
servers

Yale selected its vendor partner in a formal process partly funded by
the Commission for Preservation and Access  Following a request for
proposal the Yale Library selected two vendors as finalists to work with
Yale staff to generate a detailed analysis of requirements for Project
Open Book  Each vendor used the results of the requirements analysis to
generate and submit a formal proposal for the entire project  This
competitive process not only enabled the Yale Library to select its
primary vendor partner but also revealed much about the state of the
imaging industry about the varying corporate commitments to the markets
for imaging technology and about the varying organizational dynamics
through which major companies are responding to and seeking to develop
these markets

Project Open Book is focused specifically on the conversion of images
from microfilm to digital form  The technology for scanning microfilm is
readily available but is changing rapidly  In its project requirements
the Yale Library emphasized features of the technology that affect the
technical quality of digital image production and the costs of creating
and storing the image library  What levels of digital resolution can be
achieved by scanning microfilm?  How does variation in the quality of
microfilm particularly in film produced to preservation standards
affect the quality of the digital images?  What technologies can an
operator effectively and economically apply when scanning film to
separate twoup images and to control for and correct image
imperfections?  How can quality control best be integrated into
digitizing work flow that includes document indexing and storage?

The actual and expected uses of digital imagesstorage browsing
printing and OCRhelp determine the standards for measuring their
quality  Browsing is especially important but the facilities available
for readers to browse image documents is perhaps the weakest aspect of
imaging technology and most in need of development  As it defined its
requirements the Yale Library concentrated on some fundamental aspects
of usability for image documents  Does the system have sufficient
flexibility to handle the full range of document types including
monographs multipart and multivolume sets and serials as well as
manuscript collections?  What conventions are necessary to identify a
document uniquely for storage and retrieval?  Where is the database of
record for storing bibliographic information about the image document?
How are basic internal structures of documents such as pagination made
accessible to the reader?  How are the image documents physically
presented on the screen to the reader?

The Yale Library designed Project Open Book on the assumption that
microfilm is more than adequate as a medium for preserving the content of
deteriorated library materials  As planning in the project has advanced
it is increasingly clear that the challenge of digital image technology
and the key to the success of efforts like Project Open Book is to
provide a means of both preserving and improving access to those
deteriorated materials

SESSION IVB

George THOMA

In the use of electronic imaging for document preservation there are
several issues to consider such as  ensuring adequate image quality
maintaining substantial conversion rates throughput providing unique
identification for automated access and retrieval and accommodating
bound volumes and fragile material

To maintain high image quality image processing functions are required
to correct the deficiencies in the scanned image  Some commercially
available systems include these functions while some do not  The
scanned raw image must be processed to correct contrast deficiencies
both poor overall contrast resulting from light print andor dark
background and variable contrast resulting from stains and
bleedthrough  Furthermore the scan density must be adequate to allow
legibility of print and sufficient fidelity in the pseudohalftoned gray
material  Borders or pageedge effects must be removed for both
compactibility and aesthetics  Page skew must be corrected for aesthetic
reasons and to enable accurate character recognition if desired
Compound images consisting of both twotoned text and grayscale
illustrations must be processed appropriately to retain the quality of
each

SESSION IVC

Jean BARONAS

Standards publications being developed by scientists engineers and
business managers in Association for Information and Image Management
AIIM standards committees can be applied to electronic image management
EIM processes including  document image transfer retrieval and
evaluation optical disk and document scanning and document design and
conversion  When combined with EIM system planning and operations
standards can assist in generating image databases that are
interchangeable among a variety of systems  The applications of
different approaches for imagetagging indexing compression and
transfer often cause uncertainty concerning EIM system compatibility
calibration performance and upward compatibility until standard
implementation parameters are established  The AIIM standards that are
being developed for these applications can be used to decrease the
uncertainty successfully integrate imaging processes and promote "open
systems"  AIIM is an accredited American National Standards Institute
ANSI standards developer with more than twenty committees comprised of
 volunteers representing users vendors and manufacturers  The
standards publications that are developed in these committees have
national acceptance and provide the basis for international harmonization
in the development of new International Organization for Standardization
ISO standards

This presentation describes the development of AIIMs EIM standards and a
new effort at AIIM a database on standards projects in a wide framework
of imaging industries including capture recording processing
duplication distribution display evaluation and preservation  The
AIIM Imagery Database will cover imaging standards being developed by
many organizations in many different countries  It will contain
standards publications dates origins related national and
international projects status key words and abstraXGH  GSV ZMHR RNZTV
GVXSMLOLTB HGZMWZIWH YLZIW IVJFVHGVW GSZG HFXS Z WZGZYZHV YV VHGZYORHSVW
ZH WRW GSV RHLRMGVIMZGRLMZO VOVXGILGVXSMRXZO XLNNRHHRLM QLRMG GZHP ULIXV
LM RNZTVIB  ZRRN DROO GZPV LM GSV OVZWVIHSRK ILOV ULI GSV WZGZYZHV ZMW
XLLIWRMZGV RGH WVEVOLKNVMG DRGS HVEVIZO HGZMWZIWH WVEVOLKVIH

KZGIRXRZ YZGGRM

     XSZIZXGVIRHGRXH LU HGZMWZIWH ULI WRTRGZO RNZTVIB

           MZGFIV LU WRTRGZO GVXSMLOLTB RNKORVH XLMGRMFRMT ELOZGRORGB

           KIVXRKRGLFH HGZMWZIWHVGGRMT MLG KLHHRYOV ZMW KILYZYOB MLG
          WVHRIZYOV

           HGZMWZIWH ZIV Z XLNKOVC RHHFV RMELOERMT GSV NVWRFN GSV
          SZIWDZIV GSV HLUGDZIV ZMW GSV GVXSMRXZO XZKZXRGB ULI
          IVKILWFXGREV URWVORGB ZMW XOZIRGB

           GSV KILTMLHRH ULI IVORZYOV ZIXSREZO HGZMWZIWH ZH WVURMVW YB
          ORYIZIRZMH RM GSV ULIVHVVZYOV UFGFIV RH KLLI

     HRTMRURXZMG KLGVMGRZO ZMW ZGGIZXGREVMVHH LU WRTRGZO GVXSMLOLTB ZH Z
     KIVHVIEZGRLM NVWRFN ZMW ZXXVHH NVXSZMRHN

     KILWFXGREV FHV LU WRTRGZO RNZTVIB ULI KIVHVIEZGRLM IVJFRIVH Z
     IVXLMXVKGFZORARMT LU KIVHVIEZGRLM KIRMXRKOVH RM Z ELOZGROV
     HGZMWZIWOVHH DLIOW

     XLMXVKG LU NZMZTRMT XLMGRMFRMT ZXXVHH RM GSV WRTRGZO VMERILMNVMG
     IZGSVI GSZM ULXFHRMT LM GSV KVINZMVMXV LU GSV NVWRFN ZMW OLMTGVIN
     ZIXSREZO HGZMWZIWH WVEVOLKVW ULI GSV ZMZOLT DLIOW

     GIZMHRGRLM KVIRLW  SLD OLMT ZMW DSZG GL WL?

            IVWVURMV "ZIXSREZO"

            IVNLEV GSV YFIWVM LU "ZIXSREZO XLKB" UILN KZKVI ZIGRUZXGH

            FHV WRTRGZO GVXSMLOLTB ULI HGLIZTV WVEVOLK NZMZTVNVMG
          HGIZGVTRVH ULI IVUIVHSRMT NVWRFN SZIWDZIV ZMW HLUGDZIV

            XIVZGV ZXRWUIVV KZKVI XLKRVH ULI GIZMHRGRLM KVIRLW YZXPFK
          FMGRO DV WVEVOLK IVORZYOV KILXVWFIVH ULI VMHFIRMT XLMGRMFRMT
          ZXXVHH GL WRTRGZO UROVH

HVHHRLM REW

HGFZIG DVRYVO            GSV ILOV LU HTNO NZIPFK RM GSV XLIV KILQVXG 

GSV VNVITVMXV LU SRTSHKVVW GVOVXLNNFMRXZGRLMH MVGDLIPH ZH Z YZHRX
UVZGFIV LU GSV HXSLOZIOB DLIPKOZXV RH WIRERMT GSV WVNZMW ULI VOVXGILMRX
WLXFNVMG WVOREVIB  GSIVV WRHGRMXG XZGVTLIRVH LU VOVXGILMRX
KFYORHSRMTIVKFYORHSRMT ZIV MVXVHHZIB GL HFKKLIG ZXXVHH WVNZMWH RM GSRH
VNVITRMT VMERILMNVMG

       XLMEVIHRLM LU KZKVI LI NRXILURON ZIXSREVH GL VOVXGILMRX ULINZG
       XLMEVIHRLM LU VOVXGILMRX UROVH GL ULINZGH GZROLIVW GL
          VOVXGILMRX IVGIRVEZO ZMW WRHKOZB
       KIRNZIB VOVXGILMRX KFYORHSRMT NZGVIRZOH ULI DSRXS GSV
          VOVXGILMRX EVIHRLM RH GSV KIRNZIB ULINZG

LXOX SZH VCKVIRNVMGZO LI KILWFXG WVEVOLKNVMG ZXGRERGRVH RM VZXS LU GSVHV
ZIVZH  ZNLMT GSV XSZOOVMTVH GSZG ORV ZSVZW RH GSV RMGVTIZGRLM LU GSVHV
GSIVV GBKVH LU RMULINZGRLM HGLIVH RM XLSVIVMG WRHGIRYFGVW HBHGVNH

GSV XLIV XSVNRHGIB LMORMV IVGIRVEZO VCKVIRNVMG KILQVXG RH Z NLWVO ULI
GSV XLMEVIHRLM LU OZITV GVCG ZMW TIZKSRXH XLOOVXGRLMH ULI DSRXS
VOVXGILMRX GBKVHVGGRMT UROVH ZIV ZEZROZYOV XZGVTLIB   GSV ZNVIRXZM
XSVNRXZO HLXRVGB SZH NZWV ZEZROZYOV XLNKFGVI GBKLTIZKSB UROVH WZGRMT UILN
 ULI RGH GDVMGB QLFIMZOH  GSRH XLOOVXGRLM LU HLNV  QLFIMZOBVZIH
RH YVRMT XLMEVIGVW GL ZM VOVXGILMRX ULINZG GSZG DROO YV ZXXVHHRYOV
GSILFTS HVEVIZO VMWFHVI ZKKORXZGRLMH

GSV FHV LU HGZMWZIW TVMVIZORAVW NZIPFK OZMTFZTV HTNO LUUVIH GSV NVZMH
GL XZKGFIV GSV HGIFXGFIZO IRXSMVHH LU GSV LIRTRMZO ZIGRXOVH RM Z DZB GSZG
DROO HFKKLIG Z EZIRVGB LU IVGIRVEZO MZERTZGRLM ZMW WRHKOZB LKGRLMH
MVXVHHZIB GL MZERTZGV VUUVXGREVOB RM EVIB OZITV GVCG WZGZYZHVH

ZM HTNO WLXFNVMG XLMHRHGH LU GVCG GSZG RH NZIPVW FK DRGS WVHXIRKGREV GZTH
GSZG HKVXRUB GSV UFMXGRLM LU Z TREVM VOVNVMG DRGSRM GSV WLXFNVMG  ZH Z
ULINZO OZMTFZTV XLMHGIFXG ZM HTNO WLXFNVMG XZM YV KZIHVW ZTZRMHG Z
WLXFNVMGGBKV WVURMRGRLM WGW GSZG FMZNYRTFLFHOB WVURMVH DSZG VOVNVMGH
ZIV ZOOLDVW ZMW DSVIV RM GSV WLXFNVMG GSVB XZM LI NFHG LXXFI  GSRH
ULINZORAVW NZK LU ZIGRXOV HGIFXGFIV ZOOLDH GSV FHVI RMGVIUZXV WVHRTM GL
YV FMXLFKOVW UILN GSV FMWVIOBRMT WZGZYZHV HBHGVN ZM RNKLIGZMG HGVK
GLDZIW RMGVILKVIZYRORGB  WVNLMHGIZGRLM LU GSRH HVKZIZYRORGB RH Z KZIG LU
GSV XLIV KILQVXG DSVIVRM FHVI RMGVIUZXV WVHRTMH YLIM LU EVIB WRUUVIVMG
KSROLHLKSRVH DROO ZXXVHH GSV HZNV WZGZYZHV

MLGVH
       GSV XLIV KILQVXG RH Z XLOOZYLIZGRLM ZNLMT XLIMVOO FMREVIHRGBH
     NZMM ORYIZIB YVOO XLNNFMRXZGRLMH IVHVZIXS YVOOXLIV GSV ZNVIRXZM
     XSVNRXZO HLXRVGB ZXH GSV XSVNRXZO ZYHGIZXGH HVIERXV XZH ZMW
     LXOX

NRXSZVO OVHP                  GSV XLIV VOVXGILMRX XSVNRHGIB ORYIZIB

Z NZQLI LMORMV UROV LU XSVNRXZO QLFIMZO ORGVIZGFIV XLNKOVGV DRGS
TIZKSRXH RH YVRMT WVEVOLKVW GL GVHG GSV FHZYRORGB LU UFOOB VOVXGILMRX
ZXXVHH GL WLXFNVMGH ZH Z QLRMG KILQVXG LU XLIMVOO FMREVIHRGB GSV
ZNVIRXZM XSVNRXZO HLXRVGB GSV XSVNRXZO ZYHGIZXGH HVIERXV LXOX ZMW
YVOOXLIV DRGS ZWWRGRLMZO HFKKLIG UILN HFM NRXILHBHGVNH HKIRMTVIEVIOZT
WRTRGZR VJFRKNVMG XLIKLIZGRLM HLMB XLIKLIZGRLM LU ZNVIRXZ ZMW ZKKOV
XLNKFGVIH  LFI UROV XLMGZRMH GSV ZNVIRXZM XSVNRXZO HLXRVGBH LMORMV
QLFIMZOH HFKKOVNVMGVW DRGS GSV TIZKSRXH UILN GSV KZKVI KFYORXZGRLM  GSV
RMWVCRMT LU GSV ZIGRXOVH UILN XSVNRXZO ZYHGIZXGH WLXFNVMGH RH ZEZROZYOV
RM YLGS RNZTV ZMW GVCG ULINZG ZMW HVEVIZO WRUUVIVMG RMGVIUZXVH XZM YV
FHVW  LFI TLZOH ZIV  GL ZHHVHH GSV VUUVXGREVMVHH ZMW ZXXVKGZYRORGB LU
VOVXGILMRX ZXXVHH GL KIRNZIB QLFIMZOH ZH XLNKZIVW DRGS KZKVI ZMW  GL
RWVMGRUB GSV NLHG WVHRIZYOV UFMXGRLMH LU GSV FHVI RMGVIUZXV GL ZM
VOVXGILMRX HBHGVN LU QLFIMZOH RMXOFWRMT RM KZIGRXFOZI Z XLNKZIRHLM LU
KZTVRNZTV WRHKOZB DRGS ZHXRR WRHKOZB RMGVIUZXVH  VZIOB VCKVIRNVMGH DRGS
XSVNRHGIB HGFWVMGH LM Z EZIRVGB LU GZHPH HFTTVHG GSZG HVZIXSRMT GZHPH ZIV
XLNKOVGVW NFXS UZHGVI DRGS ZMB VOVXGILMRX HBHGVN GSZM DRGS KZKVI YFG
GSZG ULI IVZWRMT ZOO EVIHRLMH LU GSV ZIGRXOVH ZIV ILFTSOB VJFREZOVMG

KZNVOZ ZMWIV ZMW QFWRGS ARWZI

GVCG XLMEVIHRLM RH UZI NLIV VCKVMHREV ZMW GRNVXLMHFNRMT GSZM RNZTV
XZKGFIV ZOLMV  MZOH VCKVIRVMXV DRGS LKGRXZO XSZIZXGVI IVXLTMRGRLM LXI
DROO YV IVOZGVW ZMW XLNKZIVW DRGS GSV VCKVIRVMXV LU SZERMT GVCG IVPVBVW
DSZG UZXGLIH ZUUVXG LXI ZXXFIZXB?  SLD ZXXFIZGV WLVH UFOO GVCG SZEV GL YV
RM LIWVI GL YV FHVUFO?  SLD WL WRUUVIVMG FHVIH IVZXG GL RNKVIUVXG GVCG?
GSVHV ZIV JFVHGRLMH GSZG DROO YV VCKOLIVW  ULI NZMB Z HVIERXV YFIVZF
NZB YV Z YVGGVI HLOFGRLM GSZM KVIULINRMT GSV DLIP RMSLFHV GSRH DROO ZOHL
YV WRHXFHHVW

HVHHRLM ER

NZIBYVGS KVGVIH

XLKBIRTSG OZD KILGVXGH XIVZGREV DLIPH  KILGVXGRLM TIZMGVW YB GSV OZD GL
ZFGSLIH ZMW WRHHVNRMZGLIH LU DLIPH RMXOFWVH GSV IRTSG GL WL LI ZFGSLIRAV
GSV ULOOLDRMT  IVKILWFXV GSV DLIP KIVKZIV WVIREZGREV DLIPH WRHGIRYFGV
GSV DLIP GL GSV KFYORX ZMW KFYORXOB KVIULIN LI WRHKOZB GSV DLIP  RM
ZWWRGRLM XLKBIRTSG LDMVIH LU HLFMW IVXLIWRMTH ZMW XLNKFGVI KILTIZNH SZEV
GSV IRTSG GL XLMGILO IVMGZO LU GSVRI DLIPH  GSVHV IRTSGH ZIV MLG
FMORNRGVW GSVIV ZIV Z MFNYVI LU VCXVKGRLMH ZMW ORNRGZGRLMH

ZM VOVXGILMRX VMERILMNVMG KOZXVH HGIZRMH LM GSV XLKBIRTSG HBHGVN
XLKBIRTSG LDMVIH DZMG GL XLMGILO FHVH LU GSVRI DLIP ZMW YV KZRW ULI ZMB
FHV GSV KFYORX DZMGH JFRXP ZMW VZHB ZXXVHH ZG ORGGOV LI ML XLHG  GSV
NZIPVGKOZXV RH DLIPRMT RM GSRH ZIVZ  XLMGIZXGH TFRWVORMVH LM VOVXGILMRX
FHV ZMW XLOOVXGREV ORXVMHRMT ZIV RM FHV ZMW YVRMT IVURMVW

RHHFVH XLMXVIMRMT GSV ZYRORGB GL XSZMTV DLIPH DRGSLFG WVGVXGRLM ZIV NLIV
WRUURXFOG GL WVZO DRGS  JFVHGRLMH XLMXVIMRMT GSV RMGVTIRGB LU GSV DLIP
ZMW GSV HGZGFH LU GSV XSZMTVW EVIHRLM FMWVI GSV XLKBIRTSG OZD ZIV GL YV
ZWWIVHHVW  GSVHV ZIV KFYORX KLORXB RHHFVH DSRXS IVJFRIV RMULINVW
WRZOLTFV


