

FREEMAN  AM and archival electronic resources in a school environment 
Questions concerning context  Questions concerning the electronic format
itself  Computer anxiety  Access and availability of the system 
Hardware  Strengths gained through the use of archival resources in
schools 


Reiterating an observation made by VECCIA that AM is an archival
resource made up of primary materials with very little interpretation
FREEMAN stated that the project has attempted to bridge the gap between
these bare primary materials and a school environment and in that cause
has created guided introductions to AM collections  Loud demand from the
educational community  chiefly from teachers working with the upper
grades of elementary school through high school greeted the announcement
that AM would be tested around the country

FREEMAN reported not only on what was learned about AM in a school
environment but also on several universal questions that were raised
concerning archival electronic resources in schools  She discussed
several strengths of this type of material in a school environment as
opposed to a highly structured resource that offers a limited number of
paths to follow

FREEMAN first IZRHVW HVEVIZO JFVHGRLMH ZYLFG FHRMT ZN RM Z HXSLLO
VMERILMNVMG  GSVIV RH LUGVM HLNV WRUURXFOGB RM WVEVOLKRMT Z HVMHV LU
DSZG GSV HBHGVN XLMGZRMH  NZMB HGFWVMGH HRG WLDM ZG Z XLNKFGVI IVHLFIXV
ZMW ZHHFNV GSZG YVXZFHV ZN XLNVH UILN GSV ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH ZOO LU
ZNVIRXZM SRHGLIB RH MLD ZG GSVRI URMTVIGRKH  ZH Z IVHFOG LU GSZG HLIG LU
NRHGZPVM QFWTNVMG HLNV HGFWVMGH ZIV PMLDM GL XLMXOFWV GSZG ZN XLMGZRMH
MLGSRMT LU FHV GL GSVN DSVM GSVB OLLP ULI LMV LI GDL GSRMTH ZMW WL MLG
URMW GSVN  RG RH WRUURXFOG GL WRHXLEVI GSZG NRWWOV TILFMW DSVIV LMV SZH
Z HVMHV LU DSZG GSV HBHGVN XLMGZRMH  HLNV HGFWVMGH TILKV GLDZIW GSV RWVZ
LU ZM ZIXSREV Z MVD RWVZ GL GSVN HRMXV GSVB SZEV MLG KIVERLFHOB
VCKVIRVMXVW DSZG RG NVZMH GL SZEV ZXXVHH GL Z EZHG YLWB LU HLNVDSZG
IZMWLN RMULINZGRLM

LGSVI JFVHGRLMH IZRHVW YB UIVVNZM XLMXVIMVW GSV VOVXGILMRX ULINZG RGHVOU
ULI RMHGZMXV RM Z HXSLLO VMERILMNVMG RG RH LUGVM WRUURXFOG YLGS ULI
GVZXSVIH ZMW HGFWVMGH GL TZRM Z HVMHV LU DSZG RG RH GSVB ZIV ERVDRMT
