described

The presentation will conclude with a discussion of some of the issues
surrounding the use of this technology as a preservation tool storage
refreshing backup

Pamela ANDRE and Judith ZIDAR

The National Agricultural Library NAL has had extensive experience with
raster scanning of printed materials  Since  the Library has
participated in the National Agricultural Text Digitizing Project NATDP
a cooperative effort between NAL and fortyfive land grant university
libraries  An overview of the project will be presented giving its
history and NALs strategy for the future

An indepth discussion of NATDP will follow including a description of
the scanning process from the gathering of the printed materials to the
archiving of the electronic pages  The type of equipment required for a
standalone scanning workstation and the importance of file management
software will be discussed  Issues concerning the images themselves will
be addressed briefly such as image format black and white versus color
gray scale versus dithering and resolution

Also described will be a study currently in progress by NAL to evaluate
the usefulness of converting microfilm to electronic images in order to
improve access  With the cooperation of Tuskegee University NAL has
selected three reels of microfilm from a collection of sixtyseven reels
containing the papers letters and drawings of George Washington Carver
The three reels were converted into  electronic images using a
specialized microfilm scanner  The selection filming and indexing of
this material will be discussed

Donald WATERS

Project Open Book the Yale University Librarys effort to convert 
 books from microfilm to digital imagery is currently in an advanced
state of planning and organization  The Yale Library has selected a
major vendor to serve as a partner in the project and as systems
integrator  In its proposal the successful vendor helped isolate areas
of risk and uncertainty as well as key issues to be addressed during the
life of the project  The Yale Library is now poised to decide what
material it will convert to digital image form and to seek funding
initially for the first phase and then for the entire project

The proposal that Yale accepted for the implementation of Project Open
Book will provide at the end of three phases a conversion subsystem
browsing stations distributed on the campus network within the Yale
Library a subsystem for storing  books at  and  dots per
inch and network access to the image printers  Pricing for the system
implementation assumes the existence of Yales campus ethernet network
and its highspeed image printers and includes other requisite hardware
and software as well as system integration services  Proposed operating
costs include hardware and software maintenance but do not include
estimates for the facilities management of the storage devices and image
servers

Yale selected its vendor partner in a formal process partly funded by
the Commission for Preservation and Access  Following a request for
proposal the Yale Library selected two vendors as finalists to work with
Yale staff to generate a detailed analysis of requirements for Project
Open Book  Each vendor used the results of the requirements analysis to
generate and submit a formal proposal for the entire project  This
competitive process not only enabled the Yale Library to select its
primary vendor partner but also revealed much about the state of the
imaging industry about the varying corporate commitments to the markets
for imaging technology and about the varying organizational dynamics
through which major companies are responding to and seeking to develop
these markets

Project Open Book is focused specifically on the conversion of images
from microfilm to digital form  The technology for scanning microfilm is
readily available but is changing rapidly  In its project requirements
the Yale Library emphasized features of the technology that affect the
technical quality of digital image production and the costs of creating
and storing the image library  What levels of digital resolution can be
achieved by scanning microfilm?  How does variation in the quality of
microfilm particularly in film produced to preservation standards
affect the quality of the digital images?  What technologies can an
operator effectively and economically apply when scanning film to
separate twoup images and to control for and correct image
imperfections?  How can quality control best be integrated into
digitizing work flow that includes document indexing and storage?

The actual and expected uses of digital imagesstorage browsing
printing and OCRhelp determine the standards for measuring their
quality  Browsing is especially important but the facilities available
for readers to browse image documents is perhaps the weakest aspect of
imaging technology and most in need of development  As it defined its
requirements the Yale Library concentrated on some fundamental aspects
of usability for image documents  Does the system have sufficient
flexibility to handle the full range of document types including
monographs multipart and multivolume sets and serials as well as
manuscript collections?  What conventions are necessary to identify a
document uniquely for storage and retrieval?  Where is the database of
record for storing bibliographic information about the image document?
How are basic internal structures of documents such as pagination made
accessible to the reader?  How are the image documents physically
presented on the screen to the reader?

The Yale Library designed Project Open Book on the assumption that
microfilm is more than adequate as a medium for preserving the content of
deteriorated library materials  As planning in the project has advanced
it is increasingly clear that the challenge of digital image technology
and the key to the success of efforts like Project Open Book is to
provide a means of both preserving and improving access to those
deteriorated materials

SESSION IVB

George THOMA

In the use of electronic imaging for document preservation there are
several issues to consider such as  ensuring adequate image quality
maintaining substantial conversion rates throughput providing unique
identification for automated access and retrieval and accommodating
bound volumes and fragile material

To maintain high image quality image processing functions are required
to correct the deficiencies in the scanned image  Some commercially
available systems include these functions while some do not  The
scanned raw image must be processed to correct contrast deficiencies
both poor overall contrast resulting from light print andor dark
background and variable contrast resulting from stains and
bleedthrough  Furthermore the scan density must be adequate to allow
legibility of print and sufficient fidelity in the pseudohalftoned gray
material  Borders or pageedge effects must be removed for both
compactibility and aesthetics  Page skew must be corrected for aesthetic
reasons and to enable accurate character recognition if desired
Compound images consisting of both twotoned text and grayscale
illuHGIZGRLMH NFHG YV KILXVHHVW ZKKILKIRZGVOB GL IVGZRM GSV JFZORGB LU
VZXS

HVHHRLM REX

QVZM YZILMZH

HGZMWZIWH KFYORXZGRLMH YVRMT WVEVOLKVW YB HXRVMGRHGH VMTRMVVIH ZMW
YFHRMVHH NZMZTVIH RM ZHHLXRZGRLM ULI RMULINZGRLM ZMW RNZTV NZMZTVNVMG
ZRRN HGZMWZIWH XLNNRGGVVH XZM YV ZKKORVW GL VOVXGILMRX RNZTV NZMZTVNVMG
VRN KILXVHHVH RMXOFWRMT  WLXFNVMG RNZTV GIZMHUVI IVGIRVEZO ZMW
VEZOFZGRLM LKGRXZO WRHP ZMW WLXFNVMG HXZMMRMT ZMW WLXFNVMG WVHRTM ZMW
XLMEVIHRLM  DSVM XLNYRMVW DRGS VRN HBHGVN KOZMMRMT ZMW LKVIZGRLMH
HGZMWZIWH XZM ZHHRHG RM TVMVIZGRMT RNZTV WZGZYZHVH GSZG ZIV
RMGVIXSZMTVZYOV ZNLMT Z EZIRVGB LU HBHGVNH  GSV ZKKORXZGRLMH LU
WRUUVIVMG ZKKILZXSVH ULI RNZTVGZTTRMT RMWVCRMT XLNKIVHHRLM ZMW
GIZMHUVI LUGVM XZFHV FMXVIGZRMGB XLMXVIMRMT VRN HBHGVN XLNKZGRYRORGB
XZORYIZGRLM KVIULINZMXV ZMW FKDZIW XLNKZGRYRORGB FMGRO HGZMWZIW
RNKOVNVMGZGRLM KZIZNVGVIH ZIV VHGZYORHSVW  GSV ZRRN HGZMWZIWH GSZG ZIV
YVRMT WVEVOLKVW ULI GSVHV ZKKORXZGRLMH XZM YV FHVW GL WVXIVZHV GSV
FMXVIGZRMGB HFXXVHHUFOOB RMGVTIZGV RNZTRMT KILXVHHVH ZMW KILNLGV "LKVM
HBHGVNH"  ZRRN RH ZM ZXXIVWRGVW ZNVIRXZM MZGRLMZO HGZMWZIWH RMHGRGFGV
ZMHR HGZMWZIWH WVEVOLKVI DRGS NLIV GSZM GDVMGB XLNNRGGVVH XLNKIRHVW LU
 ELOFMGVVIH IVKIVHVMGRMT FHVIH EVMWLIH ZMW NZMFUZXGFIVIH  GSV
HGZMWZIWH KFYORXZGRLMH GSZG ZIV WVEVOLKVW RM GSVHV XLNNRGGVVH SZEV
MZGRLMZO ZXXVKGZMXV ZMW KILERWV GSV YZHRH ULI RMGVIMZGRLMZO SZINLMRAZGRLM
RM GSV WVEVOLKNVMG LU MVD RMGVIMZGRLMZO LITZMRAZGRLM ULI HGZMWZIWRAZGRLM
RHL HGZMWZIWH

GSRH KIVHVMGZGRLM WVHXIRYVH GSV WVEVOLKNVMG LU ZRRNH VRN HGZMWZIWH ZMW Z
MVD VUULIG ZG ZRRN Z WZGZYZHV LM HGZMWZIWH KILQVXGH RM Z DRWV UIZNVDLIP
LU RNZTRMT RMWFHGIRVH RMXOFWRMT XZKGFIV IVXLIWRMT KILXVHHRMT
WFKORXZGRLM WRHGIRYFGRLM WRHKOZB VEZOFZGRLM ZMW KIVHVIEZGRLM  GSV
ZRRN RNZTVIB WZGZYZHV DROO XLEVI RNZTRMT HGZMWZIWH YVRMT WVEVOLKVW YB
NZMB LITZMRAZGRLMH RM NZMB WRUUVIVMG XLFMGIRVH  RG DROO XLMGZRM
HGZMWZIWH KFYORXZGRLMH WZGVH LIRTRMH IVOZGVW MZGRLMZO ZMW
RMGVIMZGRLMZO KILQVXGH HGZGFH PVB DLIWH ZMW ZYHGIZXGH  GSV ZMHR RNZTV
GVXSMLOLTB HGZMWZIWH YLZIW IVJFVHGVW GSZG HFXS Z WZGZYZHV YV VHGZYORHSVW
ZH WRW GSV RHLRMGVIMZGRLMZO VOVXGILGVXSMRXZO XLNNRHHRLM QLRMG GZHP ULIXV
LM RNZTVIB  ZRRN DROO GZPV LM GSV OVZWVIHSRK ILOV ULI GSV WZGZYZHV ZMW
XLLIWRMZGV RGH WVEVOLKNVMG DRGS HVEVIZO HGZMWZIWH WVEVOLKVIH

KZGIRXRZ YZGGRM

     XSZIZXGVIRHGRXH LU HGZMWZIWH ULI WRTRGZO RNZTVIB

           MZGFIV LU WRTRGZO GVXSMLOLTB RNKORVH XLMGRMFRMT ELOZGRORGB

           KIVXRKRGLFH HGZMWZIWHVGGRMT MLG KLHHRYOV ZMW KILYZYOB MLG
          WVHRIZYOV

           HGZMWZIWH ZIV Z XLNKOVC RHHFV RMELOERMT GSV NVWRFN GSV
          SZIWDZIV GSV HLUGDZIV ZMW GSV GVXSMRXZO XZKZXRGB ULI
          IVKILWFXGREV URWVORGB ZMW XOZIRGB

           GSV KILTMLHRH ULI IVORZYOV ZIXSREZO HGZMWZIWH ZH WVURMVW YB
          ORYIZIRZMH RM GSV ULIVHVVZYOV UFGFIV RH KLLI

     HRTMRURXZMG KLGVMGRZO ZMW ZGGIZXGREVMVHH LU WRTRGZO GVXSMLOLTB ZH Z
     KIVHVIEZGRLM NVWRFN ZMW ZXXVHH NVXSZMRHN

     KILWFXGREV FHV LU WRTRGZO RNZTVIB ULI KIVHVIEZGRLM IVJFRIVH Z
     IVXLMXVKGFZORARMT LU KIVHVIEZGRLM KIRMXRKOVH RM Z ELOZGROV
     HGZMWZIWOVHH DLIOW

     XLMXVKG LU NZMZTRMT XLMGRMFRMT ZXXVHH RM GSV WRTRGZO VMERILMNVMG
     IZGSVI GSZM ULXFHRMT LM GSV KVINZMVMXV LU GSV NVWRFN ZMW OLMTGVIN
     ZIXSREZO HGZMWZIWH WVEVOLKVW ULI GSV ZMZOLT DLIOW

     GIZMHRGRLM KVIRLW  SLD OLMT ZMW DSZG GL WL?

            IVWVURMV "ZIXSREZO"

            IVNLEV GSV YFIWVM LU "ZIXSREZO XLKB" UILN KZKVI ZIGRUZXGH

            FHV WRTRGZO GVXSMLOLTB ULI HGLIZTV WVEVOLK NZMZTVNVMG
          HGIZGVTRVH ULI IVUIVHSRMT NVWRFN SZIWDZIV ZMW HLUGDZIV

            XIVZGV ZXRWUIVV KZKVI XLKRVH ULI GIZMHRGRLM KVIRLW YZXPFK
          FMGRO DV WVEVOLK IVORZYOV KILXVWFIVH ULI VMHFIRMT XLMGRMFRMT
          ZXXVHH GL WRTRGZO UROVH

HVHHRLM REW

HGFZIG DVRYVO            GSV ILOV LU HTNO NZIPFK RM GSV XLIV KILQVXG 

GSV VNVITVMXV LU SRTSHKVVW GVOVXLNNFMRXZGRLMH MVGDLIPH ZH Z YZHRX
UVZGFIV LU GSV HXSLOZIOB DLIPKOZXV RH WIRERMT GSV WVNZMW ULI VOVXGILMRX
WLXFNVMG WVOREVIB  GSIVV WRHGRMXG XZGVTLIRVH LU VOVXGILMRX
KFYORHSRMTIVKFYORHSRMT ZIV MVXVHHZIB GL HFKKLIG ZXXVHH WVNZMWH RM GSRH
VNVITRMT VMERILMNVMG

       XLMEVIHRLM LU KZKVI LI NRXILURON ZIXSREVH GL VOVXGILMRX ULINZG
       XLMEVIHRLM LU VOVXGILMRX UROVH GL ULINZGH GZROLIVW GL
          VOVXGILMRX IVGIRVEZO ZMW WRHKOZB
       KIRNZIB VOVXGILMRX KFYORHSRMT NZGVIRZOH ULI DSRXS GSV
          VOVXGILMRX EVIHRLM RH GSV KIRNZIB ULINZG

LXOX SZH VCKVIRNVMGZO LI KILWFXG WVEVOLKNVMG ZXGRERGRVH RM VZXS LU GSVHV
ZIVZH  ZNLMT GSV XSZOOVMTVH GSZG ORV ZSVZW RH GSV RMGVTIZGRLM LU GSVHV
GSIVV GBKVH LU RMULINZGRLM HGLIVH RM XLSVIVMG WRHGIRYFGVW HBHGVNH

GSV XLIV XSVNRHGIB LMORMV IVGIRVEZO VCKVIRNVMG KILQVXG RH Z NLWVO ULI
GSV XLMEVIHRLM LU OZITV GVCG ZMW TIZKSRXH XLOOVXGRLMH ULI DSRXS
VOVXGILMRX GBKVHVGGRMT UROVH ZIV ZEZROZYOV XZGVTLIB   GSV ZNVIRXZM
XSVNRXZO HLXRVGB SZH NZWV ZEZROZYOV XLNKFGVI GBKLTIZKSB UROVH WZGRMT UILN
 ULI RGH GDVMGB QLFIMZOH  GSRH XLOOVXGRLM LU HLNV  QLFIMZOBVZIH
RH YVRMT XLMEVIGVW GL ZM VOVXGILMRX ULINZG GSZG DROO YV ZXXVHHRYOV
GSILFTS HVEVIZO VMWFHVI ZKKORXZGRLMH

GSV FHV LU HGZMWZIW TVMVIZORAVW NZIPFK OZMTFZTV HTNO LUUVIH GSV NVZMH
GL XZKGFIV GSV HGIFXGFIZO IRXSMVHH LU GSV LIRTRMZO ZIGRXOVH RM Z DZB GSZG
DROO HFKKLIG Z EZIRVGB LU IVGIRVEZO MZERTZGRLM ZMW WRHKOZB LKGRLMH
MVXVHHZIB GL MZERTZGV VUUVXGREVOB RM EVIB OZITV GVCG WZGZYZHVH

ZM HTNO WLXFNVMG XLMHRHGH LU GVCG GSZG RH NZIPVW FK DRGS WVHXIRKGREV GZTH
GSZG HKVXRUB GSV UFMXGRLM LU Z TREVM VOVNVMG DRGSRM GSV WLXFNVMG  ZH Z
ULINZO OZMTFZTV XLMHGIFXG ZM HTNO WLXFNVMG XZM YV KZIHVW ZTZRMHG Z
WLXFNVMGGBKV WVURMRGRLM WGW GSZG FMZNYRTFLFHOB WVURMVH DSZG VOVNVMGH
ZIV ZOOLDVW ZMW DSVIV RM GSV WLXFNVMG GSVB XZM LI NFHG LXXFI  GSRH
ULINZORAVW NZK LU ZIGRXOV HGIFXGFIV ZOOLDH GSV FHVI RMGVIUZXV WVHRTM GL
YV FMXLFKOVW UILN GSV FMWVIOBRMT WZGZYZHV HBHGVN ZM RNKLIGZMG HGVK
GLDZIW RMGVILKVIZYRORGB  WVNLMHGIZGRLM LU GSRH HVKZIZYRORGB RH Z KZIG LU
GSV XLIV KILQVXG DSVIVRM FHVI RMGVIUZXV WVHRTMH YLIM LU EVIB WRUUVIVMG
KSROLHLKSRVH DROO ZXXVHH GSV HZNV WZGZYZHV

MLGVH
       GSV XLIV KILQVXG RH Z XLOOZYLIZGRLM ZNLMT XLIMVOO FMREVIHRGBH
     NZMM ORYIZIB YVOO XLNNFMRXZGRLMH IVHVZIXS YVOOXLIV GSV ZNVIRXZM
     XSVNRXZO HLXRVGB ZXH GSV XSVNRXZO ZYHGIZXGH HVIERXV XZH ZMW
     LXOX

NRXSZVO OVHP                  GSV XLIV VOVXGILMRX XSVNRHGIB ORYIZIB

Z NZQLI LMORMV UROV LU XSVNRXZO QLFIMZO ORGVIZGFIV XLNKOVGV DRGS
TIZKSRXH RH YVRMT WVEVOLKVW GL GVHG GSV FHZYRORGB LU UFOOB VOVXGILMRX
ZXXVHH GL WLXFNVMGH ZH Z QLRMG KILQVXG LU XLIMVOO FMREVIHRGB GSV
ZNVIRXZM XSVNRXZO HLXRVGB GSV XSVNRXZO ZYHGIZXGH HVIERXV LXOX ZMW
YVOOXLIV DRGS ZWWRGRLMZO HFKKLIG UILN HFM NRXILHBHGVNH HKIRMTVIEVIOZT
WRTRGZR VJFRKNVMG XLIKLIZGRLM HLMB XLIKLIZGRLM LU ZNVIRXZ ZMW ZKKOV
XLNKFGVIH  LFI UROV XLMGZRMH GSV ZNVIRXZM XSVNRXZO HLXRVGBH LMORMV
QLFIMZOH HFKKOVNVMGVW DRGS GSV TIZKSRXH UILN GSV KZKVI KFYORXZGRLM  GSV
RMWVCRMT LU GSV ZIGRXOVH UILN XSVNRXZO ZYHGIZXGH WLXFNVMGH RH ZEZROZYOV
RM YLGS RNZTV ZMW GVCG ULINZG ZMW HVEVIZO WRUUVIVMG RMGVIUZXVH XZM YV
FHVW  LFI TLZOH ZIV  GL ZHHVHH GSV VUUVXGREVMVHH ZMW ZXXVKGZYRORGB LU
VOVXGILMRX ZXXVHH GL KIRNZIB QLFIMZOH ZH XLNKZIVW DRGS KZKVI ZMW  GL
RWVMGRUB GSV NLHG WVHRIZYOV UFMXGRLMH LU GSV FHVI RMGVIUZXV GL ZM
VOVXGILMRX HBHGVN LU QLFIMZOH RMXOFWRMT RM KZIGRXFOZI Z XLNKZIRHLM LU
KZTVRNZTV WRHKOZB DRGS ZHXRR WRHKOZB RMGVIUZXVH  VZIOB VCKVIRNVMGH DRGS
XSVNRHGIB HGFWVMGH LM Z EZIRVGB LU GZHPH HFTTVHG GSZG HVZIXSRMT GZHPH ZIV
XLNKOVGVW NFXS UZHGVI DRGS ZMB VOVXGILMRX HBHGVN GSZM DRGS KZKVI YFG
GSZG ULI IVZWRMT ZOO EVIHRLMH LU GSV ZIGRXOVH ZIV ILFTSOB VJFREZOVMG

KZNVOZ ZMWIV ZMW QFWRGS ARWZI

GVCG XLMEVIHRLM RH UZI NLIV VCKVMHREV ZMW GRNVXLMHFNRMT GSZM RNZTV
XZKGFIV ZOLMV  MZOH VCKVIRVMXV DRGS LKGRXZO XSZIZXGVI IVXLTMRGRLM LXI
DROO YV IVOZGVW ZMW XLNKZIVW DRGS GSV VCKVIRVMXV LU SZERMT GVCG IVPVBVW
DSZG UZXGLIH ZUUVXG LXI ZXXFIZXB?  SLD ZXXFIZGV WLVH UFOO GVCG SZEV GL YV
RM LIWVI GL YV FHVUFO?  SLD WL WRUUVIVMG FHVIH IVZXG GL RNKVIUVXG GVCG?
GSVHV ZIV JFVHGRLMH GSZG DROO YV VCKOLIVW  ULI NZMB Z HVIERXV YFIVZF
NZB YV Z YVGGVI HLOFGRLM GSZM KVIULINRMT GSV DLIP RMSLFHV GSRH DROO ZOHL
YV WRHXFHHVW

HVHHRLM ER

NZIBYVGS KVGVIH

XLKBIRTSG OZD KILGVXGH XIVZGREV DLIPH  KILGVXGRLM TIZMGVW YB GSV OZD GL
ZFGSLIH ZMW WRHHVNRMZGLIH LU DLIPH RMXOFWVH GSV IRTSG GL WL LI ZFGSLIRAV
GSV ULOOLDRMT  IVKILWFXV GSV DLIP KIVKZIV WVIREZGREV DLIPH WRHGIRYFGV
GSV DLIP GL GSV KFYORX ZMW KFYORXOB KVIULIN LI WRHKOZB GSV DLIP  RM
ZWWRGRLM XLKBIRTSG LDMVIH LU HLFMW IVXLIWRMTH ZMW XLNKFGVI KILTIZNH SZEV
GSV IRTSG GL XLMGILO IVMGZO LU GSVRI DLIPH  GSVHV IRTSGH ZIV MLG
FMORNRGVW GSVIV ZIV Z MFNYVI LU VCXVKGRLMH ZMW ORNRGZGRLMH

ZM VOVXGILMRX VMERILMNVMG KOZXVH HGIZRMH LM GSV XLKBIRTSG HBHGVN
XLKBIRTSG LDMVIH DZMG GL XLMGILO FHVH LU GSVRI DLIP ZMW YV KZRW ULI ZMB
FHV GSV KFYORX DZMGH JFRXP ZMW VZHB ZXXVHH ZG ORGGOV LI ML XLHG  GSV
NZIPVGKOZXV RH DLIPRMT RM GSRH ZIVZ  XLMGIZXGH TFRWVORMVH LM VOVXGILMRX
FHV ZMW XLOOVXGREV ORXVMHRMT ZIV RM FHV ZMW YVRMT IVURMVW

RHHFVH XLMXVIMRMT GSV ZYRORGB GL XSZMTV DLIPH DRGSLFG WVGVXGRLM ZIV NLIV
WRUURXFOG GL WVZO DRGS  JFVHGRLMH XLMXVIMRMT GSV RMGVTIRGB LU GSV DLIP
ZMW GSV HGZGFH LU GSV XSZMTVW EVIHRLM FMWVI GSV XLKBIRTSG OZD ZIV GL YV
ZWWIVHHVW  GSVHV ZIV KFYORX KLORXB RHHFVH DSRXS IVJFRIV RMULINVW
WRZOLTFV


                                 


                ZKKVMWRC RRR  WRIVXGLIB LU KZIGRXRKZMGH


KIVHVMGVIH

     KZNVOZ JQ ZMWIV
     ZHHLXRZGV WRIVXGLI ZFGLNZGRLM
     MZGRLMZO ZTIRXFOGFIZO ORYIZIB
      YZOGRNLIV YLFOVEZIW
     YVOGHEROOV NW 
     KSLMV   
     UZC   
     VNZRO  RMGVIMVG  KZMWIVZHIIZIHFHWZTLE

     QVZM YZILMZH HVMRLI NZMZTVI
     WVKZIGNVMG LU HGZMWZIWH ZMW GVXSMLOLTB
     ZHHLXRZGRLM ULI RMULINZGRLM ZMW RNZTV NZMZTVNVMG ZRRN
      DZBMV ZEVMFV HFRGV 
     HROEVI HKIRMT NW 
     KSLMV   
     UZC   

     KZGIRXRZ YZGGRM KIVHRWVMG
     GSV XLNNRHHRLM LM KIVHVIEZGRLM ZMW ZXXVHH
      GS HGIVVG MD
     HFRGV 
     DZHSRMTGLM WX 
     KSLMV   
     UZC   
     VNZRO  XKZTDFENYRGMVG

     SLDZIW YVHHVI
     XVMGIV XZMZWRVM WZIXSRGVXGFIV
     XZMZWRZM XVMGVI ULI ZIXSRGVXGFIV
      IFV YZROV
     NLMGIVZO JFVYVX SS H
     XZMZWZ
     KSLMV   
     UZC   
     VNZRO  SLDZIWORHKRGGVWF

     VWDRM Y YILDMIRTT VCVXFGREV WRIVXGLI
     NVNVC IVHVZIXS RMHGRGFGV
      YLMRGZ ZEVMFV
     ILHVEROOV XZ 
     KSLMV   
     UZC   
     VNZRO  YRGMVG  NVNVCXZOHGZGV

     VIRX N XZOZOFXZ ERXV KIVHRWVMG
     XSZWDBXPSVZOVB RMX
      PRMT HGIVVG
     ZOVCZMWIRZ EZ O
     KSLMV   O
     UZC   

     QZNVH WZOB
      WVVKDLLW ILZW
     YZOGRNLIV NW 
     KSLMV   

     IRXPB VIDZB ZHHLXRZGV XLLIWRMZGLI
     ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB
     ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH
     KSLMV   
     UZC   

     XZIO UOVRHXSSZFVI XLLIWRMZGLI
     ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB
     ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH
     KSLMV   
     UZC   

     QLZMMV UIVVNZM
      QVUUVIHLM KZIP ZEVMFV ML 
     XSZIOLGGVHEROOV EZ  

     KILHHVI TRUULIW
     WRIVXGLI ULI HXSLOZIOB KILTIZNH
     ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH
     KSLMV   
     UZC   
     VNZRO  KTRUHVJOLXTLE

     QZXJFVORMV SVHH WRIVXGLI
     MZGRLMZO WVNLMHGIZGRLM OZYLIZGLIB
       ULI RMGVIZXGREV RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTRVH
     ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH
     KSLMV   
     UZC   

     HFHZM SLXPVB WRIVXGLI
     XVMGVI ULI VOVXGILMRX GVCGH RM GSV SFNZMRGRVH XVGS
     ZOVCZMWVI ORYIZIB
     IFGTVIH FMREVIHRGB
      XLOOVTV ZEVMFV
     MVD YIFMHDRXP MQ 
     KSLMV   
     UZC   
     VNZRO  SLXPVBALWRZXIFGTVIHVWF

     DROORZN O SLLGLM ERXV KIVHRWVMG
     YFHRMVHH  GVXSMRXZO WVEVOLKNVMG
       RNZTRMT  RMULINZGRLM HBHGVNH TILFK
     RMVG
      ILXPOVWTV WIREV HFRGV 
     YVGSVHWZ NW O
     KSLMV   
     UZC   

     ZMMV I PVMMVB ZHHLXRZGV WRIVXGLI
     WVKZIGNVMG LU KIVHVIEZGRLM ZMW XLMHVIEZGRLM
      LORM ORYIZIB
     XLIMVOO FMREVIHRGB
     RGSZXZ MB 
     KSLMV   
     UZC   
     VNZRO  OBWBXLIMVOOZYRGMVG

     ILMZOW O OZIHVM
     ZHHLXRZGV WRIVXGLI ULI RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTB
     FMREVIHRGB LU NZIBOZMW ZG XLOOVTV KZIP
     ILLN Y NXPVOWRM ORYIZIB
     XLOOVTV KZIP NW 
     KSLMV   
     UZC   
     VNZRO  IOZIHVMORYIFNWVWF

     NZIRZ O OVYILM NZMZTRMT VWRGLI
     GSV LMORMV QLFIMZO LU XFIIVMG XORMRXZO GIRZOH
     O S HGIVVG MD
     DZHSRMTGLM WX 
     KSLMV   
     UZC   
     VNZRO  KFYHZZZHTDFENYRGMVG

     NRXSZVO OVHP VCVXFGREV WRIVXGLI
     XLNKFGVI HXRVMXV IVHVZIXS
     YVOO XLNNFMRXZGRLMH IVHVZIXS RMX
     IN Z
      HLFGS HGIVVG
     NLIIRHGLDM MQ OO
     KSLMV   
     UZC   
     VNZRO  OVHPYVOOXLIVXLN RMGVIMVG LI YVOOXLIVOVHP FFXK

     XORUULIW Z OBMXS
     WRIVXGLI ORYIZIB ZFGLNZGRLM
     FMREVIHRGB LU XZORULIMRZ
        LUURXV LU GSV KIVHRWVMG
      OZPVHRWV WIREV GS UOLLI
     LZPOZMW XZ 
     KSLMV   
     UZC   
     VNZRO  XZOFIFXXNEHZ

     ZEIZ NRXSVOHLM
     MZGRLMZO ZIXSREVH ZMW IVXLIWH ZWNRMRHGIZGRLM
     MHA IN M
     GS  KVMMHBOEZMRZ MD
     DZHSRMTGLM WX 
     KSLMV   
     UZC   
     VNZRO  GNRXFMRSTLE

     VOOR NBOLMZH NZMZTRMT VWRGLI
     KVIHVFH KILQVXG
     WVKZIGNVMG LU GSV XOZHHRXH
     SZIEZIW FMREVIHRGB
      YLBOHGLM SZOO
     XZNYIRWTV NZ 
     KSLMV      WRIVXG
     UZC   
     VNZRO  VOORRPZILHSZIEZIWVWF LI VOORDQSSZIEZIWVWF

     WZERW DLLWOVB KZXPZIW
     KZXPZIW SFNZMRGRVH RMHGRGFGV
      HVXLMW HGIVVG HFRGV 
     OLH ZOGLH XZ 
     KSLMV    KSR
     UZC   

     OBMMV P KVIHLMRFH ZHHRHGZMG WRIVXGLI
     XLIMVOO RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTRVH ULI
      HXSLOZIOB RMULINZGRLM HLFIXVH
      LORM ORYIZIB
     XLIMVOO FMREVIHRGB
     RGSZXZ MB 
     KSLMV   
     UZC   
     VNZRO  QIMXLIMVOOXYRGMVG

     NZIBYVGS KVGVIH
     KLORXB KOZMMRMT ZWERHVI GL GSV
       IVTRHGVI LU XLKBIRTSGH
     ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH
     LUURXV ON 
     KSLMV   
     UZC   

     X NRXSZVO HKVIYVITNXJFVVM
     VWRGLI GVCG VMXLWRMT RMRGRZGREV
     XLNKFGVI XVMGVI NX 
     FMREVIHRGB LU ROORMLRH ZG XSRXZTL
     YLC 
     XSRXZTL RO 
     KSLMV   
     UZC   
     VNZRO  FFRXENXXFRXVWF LI FFRXENYRGMVG

     TVLITV I GSLNZ XSRVU
     XLNNFMRXZGRLMH VMTRMVVIRMT YIZMXS
     MZGRLMZO ORYIZIB LU NVWRXRMV
      ILXPEROOV KRPV
     YVGSVHWZ NW 
     KSLMV   
     UZC   
     VNZRO  GSLNZOSXMONMRSTLE

     WLILGSB GDLSRT VWRGLI
     GSV KZKVIH LU TVLITV DZHSRMTGLM
      ZOWVINZM ORYIZIB
     FMREVIHRGB LU ERITRMRZ
     XSZIOLGGVHEROOV EZ 
     KSLMV   
     UZC   

     HFHZM S EVXXRZ GVZN OVZWVI
     ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB FHVI VEZOFZGRLM
     ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH
     ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB VEZOFZGRLM KILQVXG
     KSLMV   
     UZC   
     VNZRO  HEVXHVJOLXTLE

     WLMZOW Q DZGVIH SVZW
     HBHGVNH LUURXV
     BZOV FMREVIHRGB ORYIZIB
     MVD SZEVM XG 
     KSLMV   
     UZC   
     VNZRO  WDZGVIHBZOVENYRGMVG LI WDZGVIHBZOVENBXXBZOVVWF

     HGFZIG DVRYVO HVMRLI IVHVZIXS HXRVMGRHG
     LXOX
      UIZMGA ILZW
     WFYORM LS 
     KSLMV   O
     UZC   
     VNZRO  RMGVIMVG  HGFIHXSLXOXLIT

     ILYVIG T ARXS
     HKVXRZO ZHHRHGZMG GL GSV ZHHLXRZGV ORYIZIRZM
       ULI HKVXRZO KILQVXGH
     ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH
     KSLMV   
     UZC   
     VNZRO  IARXHVJOLXTLE

     QFWRGS Z ARWZI XLLIWRMZGLI
     MZGRLMZO ZTIRXFOGFIZO GVCG WRTRGRARMT KILTIZN
     RMULINZGRLM HBHGVNH WRERHRLM
     MZGRLMZO ZTIRXFOGFIZO ORYIZIB
      YZOGRNLIV YLFOVEZIW
     YVOGHEROOV NW 
     KSLMV    LI 
     UZC   
     VNZRO  RMGVIMVG  QARWZIZHIIZIHFHWZTLE


LYHVIEVIH

     SVOVM ZTFVIZ KILTIZN LUURXVI
     WRERHRLM LU IVHVZIXS
     ILLN 
     MZGRLMZO VMWLDNVMG ULI GSV SFNZMRGRVH
      KVMMHBOEZMRZ ZEVMFV MD
     DZHSRMTGLM WX 
     KSLMV   
     UZC   

     N VOOBM YOZMGLM WVKFGB WRIVXGLI
     MZGRLMZO WVNLMHGIZGRLM OZYLIZGLIB
       ULI RMGVIZXGREV RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTRVH
     ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH
     KSLMV   
     UZC   

     XSZIOVH N WLOOZI
     MZGRLMZO ZIXSREVH ZMW IVXLIWH ZWNRMRHGIZGRLM
     MHA IN M
     GS  KVMMHBOEZMRZ MD
     DZHSRMTGLM WX 
     KSLMV   
     UZC   

     QVUUIVB URVOW WVKFGB GL GSV WRIVXGLI
     WRERHRLM LU KIVHVIEZGRLM ZMW ZXXVHH
     ILLN 
     MZGRLMZO VMWLDNVMG ULI GSV SFNZMRGRVH
      KVMMHBOEZMRZ ZEVMFV MD
     DZHSRMTGLM WX 
     KSLMV   
     UZC   

     OLIIRM TZIHLM
     ZNVIRXZM XSVNRXZO HLXRVGB
     IVHVZIXS ZMW WVEVOLKNVMG WVKZIGNVMG
      GS HGIVVG MD
     DZHSRMTGLM WX 
     KSLMV   
     UZC  VNZRO  RMGVIMVG  OITZXHLIT

     DROORZN N SLONVH QI
     MZGRLMZO ZIXSREVH ZMW IVXLIWH ZWNRMRHGIZGRLM
     MHA IN M
     GS  KVMMHBOEZMRZ MD
     DZHSRMTGLM WX 
     KSLMV   
     UZC   
     VNZRO  DSLONVHZNVIRXZMVWF

     HKVIORMT NZIGRM
     RMULINZGRLM IVHLFIXV NZMZTVNVMG
      WLLORGGOV HGIVVG
     TZRGSVIHYFIT NW 
     KSLMV   

     NRXSZVO MVFNZM WRIVXGLI
     GSV XVMGVI ULI GVCG ZMW GVXSMLOLTB
     ZXZWVNRX XLNKFGRMT XVMGVI
      IVRHH HXRVMXV YFROWRMT
     TVLITVGLDM FMREVIHRGB
     DZHSRMTGLM WX 
     KSLMV   
     UZC   
     VNZRO  MVFNZMTFEZCYRGMVG MVFNZMTFEZCTVLITVGLDMVWF

     YZIYZIZ KZFOHLM KILTIZN LUURXVI
     WRERHRLM LU KIVHVIEZGRLM ZMW ZXXVHH
     ILLN 
     MZGRLMZO VMWLDNVMG ULI GSV SFNZMRGRVH
      KVMMHBOEZMRZ ZEVMFV MD
     DZHSRMTGLM WX 
     KSLMV   
     UZC   

     ZOOVM S IVMVZI
     HVMRLI ZXZWVNRX KOZMMRMT ZMZOBHG
     YILDM FMREVIHRGB XLNKFGRMT ZMW RMULINZGRLM HVIERXVH
      DZGVINZM HGIVVG
     XZNKFH YLC 
     KILERWVMXV IR 
     KSLMV   
     UZC   
     VNZRO  YRGMVG  ZOOVMYILDMEN LI
     RMGVIMVG  ZOOVMYILDMENYILDMVWF

     HFHZM N HVEVIGHLM KIVHRWVMG
     XSZWDBXPSVZOVB RMX
      PRMT HGIVVG
     ZOVCZMWIRZ EZ O
     KSLMV   O
     UZC   

     UIZMP DRGSILD
     FH WVKZIGNVMG LU VWFXZGRLM
      MVD QVIHVB ZEVMFV MD
     DZHSRMTGLM WX 
     KSLMV   
     UZC   


OX HGZUU

     ORMWZ O ZIIVG
     NZXSRMVIVZWZYOV XLOOVXGRLMH IVZWRMT ILLN OQ 
      

     QLSM W YBIFN QI
     WVHXIRKGREV XZGZOLTRMT WRERHRLM ON 
      

     NZIB QZMV XZEZOOL
     HXRVMXV ZMW GVXSMLOLTB WRERHRLM OZ 
      

     HFHZM GSVZ WZERW
     XLMTIVHHRLMZO IVHVZIXS HVIERXV ON 
      

     ILYVIG WRVIPVI
     HVMRLI ZWERHVI ULI NFOGRNVWRZ ZXGRERGRVH ON 
      

     DROORZN D VOORH
     ZHHLXRZGV ORYIZIRZM ULI HXRVMXV ZMW GVXSMLOLTB ON 
      

     ILMZOW TVKSZIG
     NZMFHXIRKG WRERHRLM ON 
      

     QZNVH TIZYVI
     RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTB HVIERXVH ON T
      

     IRXS TIVVMURVOW
     ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB ON 
      

     IVYVXXZ TFVMGSVI
     MVGDLIP WVEVOLKNVMG ON 
      

     PVMMVGS V SZIIRH
     KIVHVIEZGRLM ON T
      

     HGZOVB SRGXSXLXP
     NZMFHXIRKG WRERHRLM ON 
      

     YLSWZM PZMGLI
     LUURXV LU HKVXRZO KILQVXGH ON 
      

     QLSM D PRNYZOO QI
     NZXSRMVIVZWZYOV XLOOVXGRLMH IVZWRMT ILLN OQ 
      

     YZHRO NZMMH
     RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTB HVIERXVH ON T
      

     HZOOB SZIG NXXZOOFN
     MVGDLIP WVEVOLKNVMG ON 
      

     WZMZ Q KIZGG
     KFYORHSRMT LUURXV ON 
      

     QZMV IRVUVMSZFHVI
     ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB ON 
      

     DROORZN A HXSVMXP
     XLOOVXGRLMH WVEVOLKNVMG ON 
      

     XSZMWIF Q HSZSZMR
     KIVHVIEZGRLM IVHVZIXS ZMW GVHGRMT LUURXV IG ON T
      

     DROORZN Q HRGGRT
     XLOOVXGRLMH WVEVOLKNVMG ON 
      

     KZFO HNRGS
     NZMFHXIRKG WRERHRLM ON 
      

     QZNVH O HGVEVMH
     RMULINZGRLM GVXSMLOLTB HVIERXVH ON T
      

     PZIVM HGFZIG
     NZMFHXIRKG WRERHRLM ON 
      

     GZNZIZ HDLIZ
     KIVHVIEZGRLM NRXILURONRMT LUURXV ON T
      

     HZIZS GSLNZH
     XLOOVXGRLMH XZGZOLTRMT ON 
      


                                   VMW
      

MLGV  GSRH UROV SZH YVVM VWRGVW ULI FHV LM XLNKFGVI MVGDLIPH  GSRH
VWRGRMT IVJFRIVW GSV IVNLEZO LU WRZXIRGRXH FMWVIORMRMT ZMW ULMGH HFXS
ZH RGZORXH ZMW YLOW

PWV 

Z UVD LU GSV RGZORXH DSVM FHVW ULI VNKSZHRH DVIV IVKOZXVW YB XZKH NS

VMW LU GSV KILQVXG TFGVMYVIT VGVCG LU OLX DLIPHSLK LM VOVXGILMRX VGVCGH


GSRH RH GSV UVYIFZIB  KILQVXG TFGVMYVIT IVOVZHV LU

KZIZWRHV OLHG YB QLSM NROGLM

GSV LOWVHG VGVCG PMLDM GL KILQVXG TFGVMYVIT XZ 
RU BLF PMLD LU ZMB LOWVI LMVH KOVZHV OVG FH PMLD


RMGILWFXGRLM  LMV KZTV

GSRH VGVCG DZH LIRTRMZOOB XIVZGVW RM  ZXXLIWRMT GL WI
QLHVKS IZYVM LU JFVVMH XLOOVTV MB GL DSLN RG RH ZGGIRYFGVW YB
KILQVXG TFGVMYVIT  DV SZW SVZIW LU GSRH VGVCG ULI BVZIH YFG RG
DZH MLG FMGRO  GSZG DV ZXGFZOOB NZMZTVW GL GIZXP RG WLDM GL
Z HKVXRURX OLXZGRLM ZMW GSVM RG GLLP NLMGSH GL XLMERMXV KVLKOV
GL OVG FH SZEV Z XLKB GSVM NLIV NLMGSH ULI GSVN ZXGFZOOB GL WL
GSV XLKBRMT ZMW TVG RG GL FH  GSVM ZMLGSVI NLMGS GL XLMEVIG GL
HLNVGSRMT DV XLFOW NZHHZTV DRGS LFI UZELIRGV  RM WLH  ZUGVI
GSZG RH DZH LMOB Z NZGGVI LU WZBH GL TVG RG RMGL GSRH HSZKV BLF
DROO HVV YVOLD  GSV LIRTRMZO DZH LU XLFIHV RM XZKH LMOB ZMW
HL DVIV ZOO GSV LGSVI VGVCGH LU GSV H ZMW VZIOB H  WLMG
OVG ZMBLMV ULLO BLF RMGL GSRMPRMT ZMB VGVCG DRGS YLGS FKKVI ZMW
OLDVI XZHV RH ZM LIRTRMZO ZOO GSLHV LIRTRMZO KILQVXG TFGVMYVIT
VGVCGH DVIV ZOHL RM FKKVI XZHV ZMW DVIV GIZMHOZGVW LI IVDIRGGVM
NZMB GRNVH GL TVG GSVN RMGL GSVRI XFIIVMG XLMWRGRLM  GSVB SZEV
YVVM DLIPVW LM YB NZMB KVLKOV GSILFTSLFG GSV DLIOW

RM GSV XLFIHV LU LFI HVZIXSVH ULI KILUVHHLI IZYVM ZMW SRH VGVCG
DV DVIV MVEVI ZYOV GL WVGVINRMV DSVIV XLKRVH DVIV LI DSRXS LU Z
EZIRVGB LU VWRGRLMH SV NZB SZEV FHVW ZH Z HLFIXV  DV WRW TVG Z
ORGGOV RMULINZGRLM SVIV ZMW GSVIV YFG VEVM ZUGVI DV IVXVREVW Z
XLKB LU GSV VGVCG DV DVIV FMDROORMT GL IVOVZHV RG DRGSLFG URIHG
WVGVINRMRMT GSZG RG DZH RM UZXG KFYORX WLNZRM ZMW URMWRMT IZYVM
GL EVIRUB GSRH ZMW TVG SRH KVINRHHRLM  RMGVIVHGVW VMLFTS RM Z
GLGZOOB FMIVOZGVW ZXGRLM GL LFI HVZIXSVH ULI SRN GSV KILUVHHLI
HFYHXIRYVW GL GSV KILQVXG TFGVMYVIT ORHGHVIEVI ZMW DV SZKKVMVW
YB ZXXRWVMG GL MLGRXV SRH MZNV DV WLMG IVZOOB OLLP ZG VEVIB
HFYHXIRKGRLM IVJFVHG ZH GSV XLNKFGVIH FHFZOOB SZMWOV GSVN GSV
VGVCG DZH GSVM KILKVIOB RWVMGRURVW XLKBIRTSG ZMZOBAVW ZMW GSV
XFIIVMG VWRGRLM KIVKZIVW

GL TREV BLF ZM VHGRNZGRLM LU GSV WRUUVIVMXV RM GSV LIRTRMZO ZMW
