more than  optical media publications such as those offered by
InfoTrac and Silver Platter are subscribed to by US libraries

This march of technology continues and in the next decade will result in
further innovations that are extremely difficult to predict  What is
clear is that libraries can now go beyond automation of their order files
and catalogs to automation of their collections themselvesand it is
possible to circumvent the fiscal limitations that appear to obtain
today

This Electronic Library Strategic Plan recommends a paradigm shift in
library service and demonstrates the steps necessary to provide improved
library services with limited capacities and operating investments

SESSION IVA

Anne KENNEY

The CornellXerox Joint Study in Digital Preservation resulted in the
recording of  brittle books as dpi digital images and the
production on demand of highquality and archivally sound paper
replacements  The project which was supported by the Commission on
Preservation and Access also investigated some of the issues surrounding
scanning storing retrieving and providing access to digital images in
a network environment

Anne Kenney will focus on some of the issues surrounding direct scanning
as identified in the Cornell Xerox Project  Among those to be discussed
are  image versus text capture indexing and access imagecapture
capabilities a comparison to photocopy and microfilm production and
cost analysis storage formats protocols and standards and the use of
this scanning technology for preservation purposes

The dpi digital images produced in the Cornell Xerox Project proved
highly acceptable for creating paper replacements of deteriorating
originals  The  scanned volumes provided an array of imagecapture
challenges that are common to nineteenthcentury printing techniques and
embrittled material and that defy the use of textconversion processes
These challenges include diminished contrast between text and background
fragile and deteriorated pages uneven printing elaborate type faces
faint and bold text adjacency handwritten text and annotations nonRoman
languages and a proliferation of illustrated material embedded in text
The latter category included highfrequency and lowfrequency halftones
continuous tone photographs intricate mathematical drawings maps
etchings reversepolarity drawings and engravings

The Xerox prototype scanning system provided a number of important
features for capturing this diverse material  Technicians used multiple
threshold settings filters line art and halftone definitions
autosegmentation windowing and softwareediting programs to optimize
image capture  At the same time this project focused on production
The goal was to make scanning as affordable and acceptable as
photocopying and microfilming for preservation reformatting  A
timeandcost study conducted during the last three months of this
project confirmed the economic viability of digital scanning and these
findings will be discussed here

From the outset the Cornell Xerox Project was predicated on the use of
nonproprietary standards and the use of common protocols when standards
did not exist  Digital files were created as TIFF images which were
compressed prior to storage using Group  CCITT compression  The Xerox
software is MS DOS based and utilizes offthe shelf programs such as
Microsoft Windows and Wang Image Wizard  The digital library is designed
to be hardwareindependent and to provide interchangeability with other
institutions through network connections  Access to the digital files
themselves is twotiered  Bibliographic records for the computer files
are created in RLIN and Cornells local system and access into the actual
digital images comprising a book is provided through a document control
structure and a networked image fileserver both of which will be
described

The presentation will conclude with a discussion of some of the issues
surrounding the use of this technology as a preservation tool storage
refreshing backup

Pamela ANDRE and Judith ZIDAR

The National Agricultural Library NAL has had extensive experience with
raster scanning of printed materials  Since  the Library has
participated in the National Agricultural Text Digitizing Project NATDP
a cooperative effort between NAL and fortyfive land grant university
libraries  An overview of the project will be presented giving its
history and NALs strategy for the future

An indepth discussion of NATDP will follow including a description of
the scanning process from the gathering of the printed materials to the
archiving of the electronic pages  The type of equipment required for a
standalone scanning workstation and the importance of file management
software will be discussed  Issues concerning the images themselves will
be addressed briefly such as image format black and white versus color
gray scale versus dithering and resolution

Also described will be a study currently in progress by NAL to evaluate
the usefulness of converting microfilm to electronic images in order to
improve access  With the cooperation of Tuskegee University NAL has
selected three reels of microfilm from a collection of sixtyseven reels
containing the papers letters and drawings of George Washington Carver
The three reels were converted into  electronic images using a
specialized microfilm scanner  The selection filming and indexing of
this material will be discussed

Donald WATERS

Project Open Book the Yale University Librarys effort to convert 
 books from microfilm to digital imagery is currently in an advanced
state of planning and organization  The Yale Library has selected a
major vendor to serve as a partner in the project and as systems
integrator  In its proposal the successful vendor helped isolate areas
of risk and uncertainty as well as key issues to be addressed during the
life of the project  The Yale Library is now poised to decide what
material it will convert to digital image form and to seek funding
initially for the first phase and then for the entire project

The proposal that Yale accepted for the implementation of Project Open
Book will provide at the end of three phases a conversion subsystem
browsing stations distributed on the campus network within the Yale
Library a subsystem for storing  books at  and  dots per
inch and network access to the image printers  Pricing for the system
implementation assumes the existence of Yales campus ethernet network
and its highspeed image printers and includes other requisite hardware
and software as well as system integration services  Proposed operating
costs include hardware and software maintenance but do not include
estimates for the facilities management of the storage devices and image
servers

Yale selected its vendor partner in a formal process partly funded by
the Commission for Preservation and Access  Following a request for
proposal the Yale Library selected two vendors as finalists to work with
Yale staff to generate a detailed analysis of requirements for Project
Open Book  Each vendor used the results of the requirements analysis to
generate and submit a formal proposal for the entire project  This
competitive process not only enabled the Yale Library to select its
primary vendor partner but also revealed much about the state of the
imaging industry about the varying corporate commitments to the markets
for imaging technology and about the varying organizational dynamics
through which major companies are responding to and seeking to develop
these markets

Project Open Book is focused specifically on the conversion of images
from microfilm to digital form  The technology for scanning microfilm is
readily available but is changing rapidly  In its project requirements
the Yale Library emphasized features of the technology that affect the
technical quality of digital image production and the costs of creating
and storing the image library  What levels of digital resolution can be
achieved by scanning microfilm?  How does variation in the quality of
microfilm particularly in film produced to preservation standards
affect the quality of the digital images?  What technologies can an
operator effectively and economically apply when scanning film to
separate twoup images and to control for and correct image
imperfections?  How can quality control best be integrated into
digitizing work flow that includes document indexing and storage?

The actual and expected uses of digital imagesstorage browsing
printing and OCRhelp determine the standards for measuring their
quality  Browsing is especially important but the facilities available
for readers to browse image documents is perhaps the weakest aspect of
imaging technology and most in need of development  As it defined its
requirements the Yale Library concentrated on some fundamental aspects
of usability for image documents  Does the system have sufficient
flexibility to handle the full range of document types including
monographs multipart and multivolume sets and serials as well as
manuscript collections?  What conventions are necessary to identify a
document uniquely for storage and retrieval?  Where is the database of
record for storing bibliographic information about the image document?
How are basic internal structures of documents such as pagination made
accessible to the reader?  How are the image documents physically
presented on the screen to the reader?

The Yale Library designed Project Open Book on the assumption that
microfilm is more than adequate as a medium for preserving the content of
deteriorated library materials  As planning in the project has advanced
it is increasingly clear that the challenge of digital image technology
and the key to the success of efforts like Project Open Book is to
provide a means LU YLGS KIVHVIERMT ZMW RNKILERMT ZXXVHH GL GSLHV
WVGVIRLIZGVW NZGVIRZOH

HVHHRLM REY

TVLITV GSLNZ

RM GSV FHV LU VOVXGILMRX RNZTRMT ULI WLXFNVMG KIVHVIEZGRLM GSVIV ZIV
HVEVIZO RHHFVH GL XLMHRWVI HFXS ZH  VMHFIRMT ZWVJFZGV RNZTV JFZORGB
NZRMGZRMRMT HFYHGZMGRZO XLMEVIHRLM IZGVH GSILFTSKFG KILERWRMT FMRJFV
RWVMGRURXZGRLM ULI ZFGLNZGVW ZXXVHH ZMW IVGIRVEZO ZMW ZXXLNNLWZGRMT
YLFMW ELOFNVH ZMW UIZTROV NZGVIRZO

GL NZRMGZRM SRTS RNZTV JFZORGB RNZTV KILXVHHRMT UFMXGRLMH ZIV IVJFRIVW
GL XLIIVXG GSV WVURXRVMXRVH RM GSV HXZMMVW RNZTV  HLNV XLNNVIXRZOOB
ZEZROZYOV HBHGVNH RMXOFWV GSVHV UFMXGRLMH DSROV HLNV WL MLG  GSV
HXZMMVW IZD RNZTV NFHG YV KILXVHHVW GL XLIIVXG XLMGIZHG WVURXRVMXRVH
YLGS KLLI LEVIZOO XLMGIZHG IVHFOGRMT UILN ORTSG KIRMG ZMWLI WZIP
YZXPTILFMW ZMW EZIRZYOV XLMGIZHG IVHFOGRMT UILN HGZRMH ZMW
YOVVWGSILFTS  UFIGSVINLIV GSV HXZM WVMHRGB NFHG YV ZWVJFZGV GL ZOOLD
OVTRYRORGB LU KIRMG ZMW HFUURXRVMG URWVORGB RM GSV KHVFWLSZOUGLMVW TIZB
NZGVIRZO  YLIWVIH LI KZTVVWTV VUUVXGH NFHG YV IVNLEVW ULI YLGS
XLNKZXGRYRORGB ZMW ZVHGSVGRXH  KZTV HPVD NFHG YV XLIIVXGVW ULI ZVHGSVGRX
IVZHLMH ZMW GL VMZYOV ZXXFIZGV XSZIZXGVI IVXLTMRGRLM RU WVHRIVW
XLNKLFMW RNZTVH XLMHRHGRMT LU YLGS GDLGLMVW GVCG ZMW TIZBHXZOV
ROOFHGIZGRLMH NFHG YV KILXVHHVW ZKKILKIRZGVOB GL IVGZRM GSV JFZORGB LU
VZXS

HVHHRLM REX

QVZM YZILMZH

HGZMWZIWH KFYORXZGRLMH YVRMT WVEVOLKVW YB HXRVMGRHGH VMTRMVVIH ZMW
YFHRMVHH NZMZTVIH RM ZHHLXRZGRLM ULI RMULINZGRLM ZMW RNZTV NZMZTVNVMG
ZRRN HGZMWZIWH XLNNRGGVVH XZM YV ZKKORVW GL VOVXGILMRX RNZTV NZMZTVNVMG
VRN KILXVHHVH RMXOFWRMT  WLXFNVMG RNZTV GIZMHUVI IVGIRVEZO ZMW
VEZOFZGRLM LKGRXZO WRHP ZMW WLXFNVMG HXZMMRMT ZMW WLXFNVMG WVHRTM ZMW
XLMEVIHRLM  DSVM XLNYRMVW DRGS VRN HBHGVN KOZMMRMT ZMW LKVIZGRLMH
HGZMWZIWH XZM ZHHRHG RM TVMVIZGRMT RNZTV WZGZYZHVH GSZG ZIV
RMGVIXSZMTVZYOV ZNLMT Z EZIRVGB LU HBHGVNH  GSV ZKKORXZGRLMH LU
WRUUVIVMG ZKKILZXSVH ULI RNZTVGZTTRMT RMWVCRMT XLNKIVHHRLM ZMW
GIZMHUVI LUGVM XZFHV FMXVIGZRMGB XLMXVIMRMT VRN HBHGVN XLNKZGRYRORGB
XZORYIZGRLM KVIULINZMXV ZMW FKDZIW XLNKZGRYRORGB FMGRO HGZMWZIW
RNKOVNVMGZGRLM KZIZNVGVIH ZIV VHGZYORHSVW  GSV ZRRN HGZMWZIWH GSZG ZIV
YVRMT WVEVOLKVW ULI GSVHV ZKKORXZGRLMH XZM YV FHVW GL WVXIVZHV GSV
FMXVIGZRMGB HFXXVHHUFOOB RMGVTIZGV RNZTRMT KILXVHHVH ZMW KILNLGV "LKVM
HBHGVNH"  ZRRN RH ZM ZXXIVWRGVW ZNVIRXZM MZGRLMZO HGZMWZIWH RMHGRGFGV
ZMHR HGZMWZIWH WVEVOLKVI DRGS NLIV GSZM GDVMGB XLNNRGGVVH XLNKIRHVW LU
 ELOFMGVVIH IVKIVHVMGRMT FHVIH EVMWLIH ZMW NZMFUZXGFIVIH  GSV
HGZMWZIWH KFYORXZGRLMH GSZG ZIV WVEVOLKVW RM GSVHV XLNNRGGVVH SZEV
MZGRLMZO ZXXVKGZMXV ZMW KILERWV GSV YZHRH ULI RMGVIMZGRLMZO SZINLMRAZGRLM
RM GSV WVEVOLKNVMG LU MVD RMGVIMZGRLMZO LITZMRAZGRLM ULI HGZMWZIWRAZGRLM
RHL HGZMWZIWH

GSRH KIVHVMGZGRLM WVHXIRYVH GSV WVEVOLKNVMG LU ZRRNH VRN HGZMWZIWH ZMW Z
MVD VUULIG ZG ZRRN Z WZGZYZHV LM HGZMWZIWH KILQVXGH RM Z DRWV UIZNVDLIP
LU RNZTRMT RMWFHGIRVH RMXOFWRMT XZKGFIV IVXLIWRMT KILXVHHRMT
WFKORXZGRLM WRHGIRYFGRLM WRHKOZB VEZOFZGRLM ZMW KIVHVIEZGRLM  GSV
ZRRN RNZTVIB WZGZYZHV DROO XLEVI RNZTRMT HGZMWZIWH YVRMT WVEVOLKVW YB
NZMB LITZMRAZGRLMH RM NZMB WRUUVIVMG XLFMGIRVH  RG DROO XLMGZRM
HGZMWZIWH KFYORXZGRLMH WZGVH LIRTRMH IVOZGVW MZGRLMZO ZMW
RMGVIMZGRLMZO KILQVXGH HGZGFH PVB DLIWH ZMW ZYHGIZXGH  GSV ZMHR RNZTV
GVXSMLOLTB HGZMWZIWH YLZIW IVJFVHGVW GSZG HFXS Z WZGZYZHV YV VHGZYORHSVW
ZH WRW GSV RHLRMGVIMZGRLMZO VOVXGILGVXSMRXZO XLNNRHHRLM QLRMG GZHP ULIXV
LM RNZTVIB  ZRRN DROO GZPV LM GSV OVZWVIHSRK ILOV ULI GSV WZGZYZHV ZMW
XLLIWRMZGV RGH WVEVOLKNVMG DRGS HVEVIZO HGZMWZIWH WVEVOLKVIH

KZGIRXRZ YZGGRM

     XSZIZXGVIRHGRXH LU HGZMWZIWH ULI WRTRGZO RNZTVIB

           MZGFIV LU WRTRGZO GVXSMLOLTB RNKORVH XLMGRMFRMT ELOZGRORGB

           KIVXRKRGLFH HGZMWZIWHVGGRMT MLG KLHHRYOV ZMW KILYZYOB MLG
          WVHRIZYOV

           HGZMWZIWH ZIV Z XLNKOVC RHHFV RMELOERMT GSV NVWRFN GSV
          SZIWDZIV GSV HLUGDZIV ZMW GSV GVXSMRXZO XZKZXRGB ULI
          IVKILWFXGREV URWVORGB ZMW XOZIRGB

           GSV KILTMLHRH ULI IVORZYOV ZIXSREZO HGZMWZIWH ZH WVURMVW YB
          ORYIZIRZMH RM GSV ULIVHVVZYOV UFGFIV RH KLLI

     HRTMRURXZMG KLGVMGRZO ZMW ZGGIZXGREVMVHH LU WRTRGZO GVXSMLOLTB ZH Z
     KIVHVIEZGRLM NVWRFN ZMW ZXXVHH NVXSZMRHN

     KILWFXGREV FHV LU WRTRGZO RNZTVIB ULI KIVHVIEZGRLM IVJFRIVH Z
     IVXLMXVKGFZORARMT LU KIVHVIEZGRLM KIRMXRKOVH RM Z ELOZGROV
     HGZMWZIWOVHH DLIOW

     XLMXVKG LU NZMZTRMT XLMGRMFRMT ZXXVHH RM GSV WRTRGZO VMERILMNVMG
     IZGSVI GSZM ULXFHRMT LM GSV KVINZMVMXV LU GSV NVWRFN ZMW OLMTGVIN
     ZIXSREZO HGZMWZIWH WVEVOLKVW ULI GSV ZMZOLT DLIOW

     GIZMHRGRLM KVIRLW  SLD OLMT ZMW DSZG GL WL?

            IVWVURMV "ZIXSREZO"

            IVNLEV GSV YFIWVM LU "ZIXSREZO XLKB" UILN KZKVI ZIGRUZXGH

            FHV WRTRGZO GVXSMLOLTB ULI HGLIZTV WVEVOLK NZMZTVNVMG
          HGIZGVTRVH ULI IVUIVHSRMT NVWRFN SZIWDZIV ZMW HLUGDZIV

            XIVZGV ZXRWUIVV KZKVI XLKRVH ULI GIZMHRGRLM KVIRLW YZXPFK
          FMGRO DV WVEVOLK IVORZYOV KILXVWFIVH ULI VMHFIRMT XLMGRMFRMT
          ZXXVHH GL WRTRGZO UROVH

HVHHRLM REW

HGFZIG DVRYVO            GSV ILOV LU HTNO NZIPFK RM GSV XLIV KILQVXG 

GSV VNVITVMXV LU SRTSHKVVW GVOVXLNNFMRXZGRLMH MVGDLIPH ZH Z YZHRX
UVZGFIV LU GSV HXSLOZIOB DLIPKOZXV RH WIRERMT GSV WVNZMW ULI VOVXGILMRX
WLXFNVMG WVOREVIB  GSIVV WRHGRMXG XZGVTLIRVH LU VOVXGILMRX
KFYORHSRMTIVKFYORHSRMT ZIV MVXVHHZIB GL HFKKLIG ZXXVHH WVNZMWH RM GSRH
VNVITRMT VMERILMNVMG

       XLMEVIHRLM LU KZKVI LI NRXILURON ZIXSREVH GL VOVXGILMRX ULINZG
       XLMEVIHRLM LU VOVXGILMRX UROVH GL ULINZGH GZROLIVW GL
          VOVXGILMRX IVGIRVEZO ZMW WRHKOZB
       KIRNZIB VOVXGILMRX KFYORHSRMT NZGVIRZOH ULI DSRXS GSV
          VOVXGILMRX EVIHRLM RH GSV KIRNZIB ULINZG

LXOX SZH VCKVIRNVMGZO LI KILWFXG WVEVOLKNVMG ZXGRERGRVH RM VZXS LU GSVHV
ZIVZH  ZNLMT GSV XSZOOVMTVH GSZG ORV ZSVZW RH GSV RMGVTIZGRLM LU GSVHV
GSIVV GBKVH LU RMULINZGRLM HGLIVH RM XLSVIVMG WRHGIRYFGVW HBHGVNH

GSV XLIV XSVNRHGIB LMORMV IVGIRVEZO VCKVIRNVMG KILQVXG RH Z NLWVO ULI
GSV XLMEVIHRLM LU OZITV GVCG ZMW TIZKSRXH XLOOVXGRLMH ULI DSRXS
VOVXGILMRX GBKVHVGGRMT UROVH ZIV ZEZROZYOV XZGVTLIB   GSV ZNVIRXZM
XSVNRXZO HLXRVGB SZH NZWV ZEZROZYOV XLNKFGVI GBKLTIZKSB UROVH WZGRMT UILN
 ULI RGH GDVMGB QLFIMZOH  GSRH XLOOVXGRLM LU HLNV  QLFIMZOBVZIH
RH YVRMT XLMEVIGVW GL ZM VOVXGILMRX ULINZG GSZG DROO YV ZXXVHHRYOV
GSILFTS HVEVIZO VMWFHVI ZKKORXZGRLMH

GSV FHV LU HGZMWZIW TVMVIZORAVW NZIPFK OZMTFZTV HTNO LUUVIH GSV NVZMH
GL XZKGFIV GSV HGIFXGFIZO IRXSMVHH LU GSV LIRTRMZO ZIGRXOVH RM Z DZB GSZG
DROO HFKKLIG Z EZIRVGB LU IVGIRVEZO MZERTZGRLM ZMW WRHKOZB LKGRLMH
MVXVHHZIB GL MZERTZGV VUUVXGREVOB RM EVIB OZITV GVCG WZGZYZHVH

ZM HTNO WLXFNVMG XLMHRHGH LU GVCG GSZG RH NZIPVW FK DRGS WVHXIRKGREV GZTH
GSZG HKVXRUB GSV UFMXGRLM LU Z TREVM VOVNVMG DRGSRM GSV WLXFNVMG  ZH Z
ULINZO OZMTFZTV XLMHGIFXG ZM HTNO WLXFNVMG XZM YV KZIHVW ZTZRMHG Z
WLXFNVMGGBKV WVURMRGRLM WGW GSZG FMZNYRTFLFHOB WVURMVH DSZG VOVNVMGH
ZIV ZOOLDVW ZMW DSVIV RM GSV WLXFNVMG GSVB XZM LI NFHG LXXFI  GSRH
ULINZORAVW NZK LU ZIGRXOV HGIFXGFIV ZOOLDH GSV FHVI RMGVIUZXV WVHRTM GL
YV FMXLFKOVW UILN GSV FMWVIOBRMT WZGZYZHV HBHGVN ZM RNKLIGZMG HGVK
GLDZIW RMGVILKVIZYRORGB  WVNLMHGIZGRLM LU GSRH HVKZIZYRORGB RH Z KZIG LU
GSV XLIV KILQVXG DSVIVRM FHVI RMGVIUZXV WVHRTMH YLIM LU EVIB WRUUVIVMG
KSROLHLKSRVH DROO ZXXVHH GSV HZNV WZGZYZHV

MLGVH
       GSV XLIV KILQVXG RH Z XLOOZYLIZGRLM ZNLMT XLIMVOO FMREVIHRGBH
     NZMM ORYIZIB YVOO XLNNFMRXZGRLMH IVHVZIXS YVOOXLIV GSV ZNVIRXZM
     XSVNRXZO HLXRVGB ZXH GSV XSVNRXZO ZYHGIZXGH HVIERXV XZH ZMW
     LXOX

NRXSZVO OVHP                  GSV XLIV VOVXGILMRX XSVNRHGIB ORYIZIB

Z NZQLI LMORMV UROV LU XSVNRXZO QLFIMZO ORGVIZGFIV XLNKOVGV DRGS
TIZKSRXH RH YVRMT WVEVOLKVW GL GVHG GSV FHZYRORGB LU UFOOB VOVXGILMRX
ZXXVHH GL WLXFNVMGH ZH Z QLRMG KILQVXG LU XLIMVOO FMREVIHRGB GSV
ZNVIRXZM XSVNRXZO HLXRVGB GSV XSVNRXZO ZYHGIZXGH HVIERXV LXOX ZMW
YVOOXLIV DRGS ZWWRGRLMZO HFKKLIG UILN HFM NRXILHBHGVNH HKIRMTVIEVIOZT
WRTRGZR VJFRKNVMG XLIKLIZGRLM HLMB XLIKLIZGRLM LU ZNVIRXZ ZMW ZKKOV
XLNKFGVIH  LFI UROV XLMGZRMH GSV ZNVIRXZM XSVNRXZO HLXRVGBH LMORMV
QLFIMZOH HFKKOVNVMGVW DRGS GSV TIZKSRXH UILN GSV KZKVI KFYORXZGRLM  GSV
RMWVCRMT LU GSV ZIGRXOVH UILN XSVNRXZO ZYHGIZXGH WLXFNVMGH RH ZEZROZYOV
RM YLGS RNZTV ZMW GVCG ULINZG ZMW HVEVIZO WRUUVIVMG RMGVIUZXVH XZM YV
FHVW  LFI TLZOH ZIV  GL ZHHVHH GSV VUUVXGREVMVHH ZMW ZXXVKGZYRORGB LU
VOVXGILMRX ZXXVHH GL KIRNZIB QLFIMZOH ZH XLNKZIVW DRGS KZKVI ZMW  GL
RWVMGRUB GSV NLHG WVHRIZYOV UFMXGRLMH LU GSV FHVI RMGVIUZXV GL ZM
VOVXGILMRX HBHGVN LU QLFIMZOH RMXOFWRMT RM KZIGRXFOZI Z XLNKZIRHLM LU
KZTVRNZTV WRHKOZB DRGS ZHXRR WRHKOZB RMGVIUZXVH  VZIOB VCKVIRNVMGH DRGS
XSVNRHGIB HGFWVMGH LM Z EZIRVGB LU GZHPH HFTTVHG GSZG HVZIXSRMT GZHPH ZIV
XLNKOVGVW NFXS UZHGVI DRGS ZMB VOVXGILMRX HBHGVN GSZM DRGS KZKVI YFG
GSZG ULI IVZWRMT ZOO EVIHRLMH LU GSV ZIGRXOVH ZIV ILFTSOB VJFREZOVMG

KZNVOZ ZMWIV ZMW QFWRGS ARWZI

GVCG XLMEVIHRLM RH UZI NLIV VCKVMHREV ZMW GRNVXLMHFNRMT GSZM RNZTV
XZKGFIV ZOLMV  MZOH VCKVIRVMXV DRGS LKGRXZO XSZIZXGVI IVXLTMRGRLM LXI
DROO YV IVOZGVW ZMW XLNKZIVW DRGS GSV VCKVIRVMXV LU SZERMT GVCG IVPVBVW
DSZG UZXGLIH ZUUVXG LXI ZXXFIZXB?  SLD ZXXFIZGV WLVH UFOO GVCG SZEV GL YV
RM LIWVI GL YV FHVUFO?  SLD WL WRUUVIVMG FHVIH IVZXG GL RNKVIUVXG GVCG?
GSVHV ZIV JFVHGRLMH GSZG DROO YV VCKOLIVW  ULI NZMB Z HVIERXV YFIVZF
NZB YV Z YVGGVI HLOFGRLM GSZM KVIULINRMT GSV DLIP RMSLFHV GSRH DROO ZOHL
YV WRHXFHHVW

HVHHRLM ER

NZIBYVGS KVGVIH

XLKBIRTSG OZD KILGVXGH XIVZGREV DLIPH  KILGVXGRLM TIZMGVW YB GSV OZD GL
ZFGSLIH ZMW WRHHVNRMZGLIH LU DLIPH RMXOFWVH GSV IRTSG GL WL LI ZFGSLIRAV
GSV ULOOLDRMT  IVKILWFXV GSV DLIP KIVKZIV WVIREZGREV DLIPH WRHGIRYFGV
GSV DLIP GL GSV KFYORX ZMW KFYORXOB KVIULIN LI WRHKOZB GSV DLIP  RM
ZWWRGRLM XLKBIRTSG LDMVIH LU HLFMW IVXLIWRMTH ZMW XLNKFGVI KILTIZNH SZEV
GSV IRTSG GL XLMGILO IVMGZO LU GSVRI DLIPH  GSVHV IRTSGH ZIV MLG
FMORNRGVW GSVIV ZIV Z MFNYVI LU VCXVKGRLMH ZMW ORNRGZGRLMH

ZM VOVXGILMRX VMERILMNVMG KOZXVH HGIZRMH LM GSV XLKBIRTSG HBHGVN
XLKBIRTSG LDMVIH DZMG GL XLMGILO FHVH LU GSVRI DLIP ZMW YV KZRW ULI ZMB
FHV GSV KFYORX DZMGH JFRXP ZMW VZHB ZXXVHH ZG ORGGOV LI ML XLHG  GSV
NZIPVGKOZXV RH DLIPRMT RM GSRH ZIVZ  XLMGIZXGH TFRWVORMVH LM VOVXGILMRX
FHV ZMW XLOOVXGREV ORXVMHRMT ZIV RM FHV ZMW YVRMT IVURMVW

RHHFVH XLMXVIMRMT GSV ZYRORGB GL XSZMTV DLIPH DRGSLFG WVGVXGRLM ZIV NLIV
WRUURXFOG GL WVZO DRGS  JFVHGRLMH XLMXVIMRMT GSV RMGVTIRGB LU GSV DLIP
ZMW GSV HGZGFH LU GSV XSZMTVW EVIHRLM FMWVI GSV XLKBIRTSG OZD ZIV GL YV
ZWWIVHHVW  GSVHV ZIV KFYORX KLORXB RHHFVH DSRXS IVJFRIV RMULINVW
WRZOLTFV


                                 


                ZKKVMWRC RRR  WRIVXGLIB LU KZIGRXRKZMGH


KIVHVMGVIH

     KZNVOZ JQ ZMWIV
     ZHHLXRZGV WRIVXGLI ZFGLNZGRLM
     MZGRLMZO ZTIRXFOGFIZO ORYIZIB
      YZOGRNLIV YLFOVEZIW
     YVOGHEROOV NW 
     KSLMV   
     UZC   
     VNZRO  RMGVIMVG  KZMWIVZHIIZIHFHWZTLE

     QVZM YZILMZH HVMRLI NZMZTVI
     WVKZIGNVMG LU HGZMWZIWH ZMW GVXSMLOLTB
     ZHHLXRZGRLM ULI RMULINZGRLM ZMW RNZTV NZMZTVNVMG ZRRN
      DZBMV ZEVMFV HFRGV 
     HROEVI HKIRMT NW 
     KSLMV   
     UZC   

     KZGIRXRZ YZGGRM KIVHRWVMG
     GSV XLNNRHHRLM LM KIVHVIEZGRLM ZMW ZXXVHH
      GS HGIVVG MD
     HFRGV 
     DZHSRMTGLM WX 
     KSLMV   
     UZC   
     VNZRO  XKZTDFENYRGMVG

     SLDZIW YVHHVI
     XVMGIV XZMZWRVM WZIXSRGVXGFIV
     XZMZWRZM XVMGVI ULI ZIXSRGVXGFIV
      IFV YZROV
     NLMGIVZO JFVYVX SS H
     XZMZWZ
     KSLMV   
     UZC   
     VNZRO  SLDZIWORHKRGGVWF

     VWDRM Y YILDMIRTT VCVXFGREV WRIVXGLI
     NVNVC IVHVZIXS RMHGRGFGV
      YLMRGZ ZEVMFV
     ILHVEROOV XZ 
     KSLMV   
     UZC   
     VNZRO  YRGMVG  NVNVCXZOHGZGV

     VIRX N XZOZOFXZ ERXV KIVHRWVMG
     XSZWDBXPSVZOVB RMX
      PRMT HGIVVG
     ZOVCZMWIRZ EZ O
     KSLMV   O
     UZC   

     QZNVH WZOB
      WVVKDLLW ILZW
     YZOGRNLIV NW 
     KSLMV   

     IRXPB VIDZB ZHHLXRZGV XLLIWRMZGLI
     ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB
     ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH
     KSLMV   
     UZC   

     XZIO UOVRHXSSZFVI XLLIWRMZGLI
     ZNVIRXZM NVNLIB
     ORYIZIB LU XLMTIVHH
     KSLMV   
